Talk	en	zh-tw
abha_dawesar_life_in_the_digital_now	I was in New York during Hurricane Sandy, and this little white dog called Maui was staying with me. Half the city was dark because of a power cut, and I was living on the dark side. Now, Maui was terrified of the dark, so I had to carry him up the stairs, actually down the stairs first, for his walk, and then bring him back up. I was also hauling gallons of bottles of water up to the seventh floor every day. And through all of this, I had to hold a torch between my teeth. The stores nearby were out of flashlights and batteries and bread. For a shower, I walked 40 blocks to a branch of my gym. But these were not the major preoccupations of my day. It was just as critical for me to be the first person in at a cafe nearby with extension cords and chargers to juice my multiple devices. I started to prospect under the benches of bakeries and the entrances of pastry shops for plug points. I wasn't the only one. Even in the rain, people stood between Madison and 5th Avenue under their umbrellas charging their cell phones from outlets on the street. Nature had just reminded us that it was stronger than all our technology, and yet here we were, obsessed about being wired. I think there's nothing like a crisis to tell you what's really important and what's not, and Sandy made me realize that our devices and their connectivity matter to us right up there with food and shelter. The self as we once knew it no longer exists, and I think that an abstract, digital universe has become a part of our identity, and I want to talk to you about what I think that means. I'm a novelist, and I'm interested in the self because the self and fiction have a lot in common. They're both stories, interpretations. You and I can experience things without a story. We might run up the stairs too quickly and we might get breathless. But the larger sense that we have of our lives, the slightly more abstract one, is indirect. Our story of our life is based on direct experience, but it's embellished. A novel needs scene after scene to build, and the story of our life needs an arc as well. It needs months and years. Discrete moments from our lives are its chapters. But the story is not about these chapters. It's the whole book. It's not only about the heartbreak and the happiness, the victories and the disappointments, but it's because how because of these, and sometimes, more importantly, in spite of these, we find our place in the world and we change it and we change ourselves. Our story, therefore, needs two dimensions of time: a long arc of time that is our lifespan, and the timeframe of direct experience that is the moment. Now the self that experiences directly can only exist in the moment, but the one that narrates needs several moments, a whole sequence of them, and that's why our full sense of self needs both immersive experience and the flow of time. Now, the flow of time is embedded in everything, in the erosion of a grain of sand, in the budding of a little bud into a rose. Without it, we would have no music. Our own emotions and state of mind often encode time, regret or nostalgia about the past, hope or dread about the future. I think that technology has altered that flow of time. The overall time that we have for our narrative, our lifespan, has been increasing, but the smallest measure, the moment, has shrunk. It has shrunk because our instruments enable us in part to measure smaller and smaller units of time, and this in turn has given us a more granular understanding of the material world, and this granular understanding has generated reams of data that our brains can no longer comprehend and for which we need more and more complicated computers. All of this to say that the gap between what we can perceive and what we can measure is only going to widen. Science can do things with and in a picosecond, but you and I are never going to have the inner experience of a millionth of a millionth of a second. You and I answer only to nature's rhythm and flow, to the sun, the moon and the seasons, and this is why we need that long arc of time with the past, the present and the future to see things for what they are, to separate signal from noise and the self from sensations. We need time's arrow to understand cause and effect, not just in the material world, but in our own intentions and our motivations. What happens when that arrow goes awry? What happens when time warps? So many of us today have the sensation that time's arrow is pointing everywhere and nowhere at once. This is because time doesn't flow in the digital world in the same way that it does in the natural one. We all know that the Internet has shrunk space as well as time. Far away over there is now here. News from India is a stream on my smartphone app whether I'm in New York or New Delhi. And that's not all. Your last job, your dinner reservations from last year, your former friends, lie on a flat plain with today's friends, because the Internet also archives, and it warps the past. With no distinction left between the past, the present and the future, and the here or there, we are left with this moment everywhere, this moment that I'll call the digital now. Just how can we prioritize in the landscape of the digital now? This digital now is not the present, because it's always a few seconds ahead, with Twitter streams that are already trending and news from other time zones. This isn't the now of a shooting pain in your foot or the second that you bite into a pastry or the three hours that you lose yourself in a great book. This now bears very little physical or psychological reference to our own state. Its focus, instead, is to distract us at every turn on the road. Every digital landmark is an invitation to leave what you are doing now to go somewhere else and do something else. Are you reading an interview by an author? Why not buy his book? Tweet it. Share it. Like it. Find other books exactly like his. Find other people reading those books. Travel can be liberating, but when it is incessant, we become permanent exiles without repose. Choice is freedom, but not when it's constantly for its own sake. Not just is the digital now far from the present, but it's in direct competition with it, and this is because not just am I absent from it, but so are you. Not just are we absent from it, but so is everyone else. And therein lies its greatest convenience and horror. I can order foreign language books in the middle of the night, shop for Parisian macarons, and leave video messages that get picked up later. At all times, I can operate at a different rhythm and pace from you, while I sustain the illusion that I'm tapped into you in real time. Sandy was a reminder of how such an illusion can shatter. There were those with power and water, and those without. There are those who went back to their lives, and those who are still displaced after so many months. For some reason, technology seems to perpetuate the illusion for those who have it that everyone does, and then, like an ironic slap in the face, it makes it true. For example, it's said that there are more people in India with access to cell phones than toilets. Now if this rift, which is already so great in many parts of the world, between the lack of infrastructure and the spread of technology, isn't somehow bridged, there will be ruptures between the digital and the real. For us as individuals who live in the digital now and spend most of our waking moments in it, the challenge is to live in two streams of time that are parallel and almost simultaneous. How does one live inside distraction? We might think that those younger than us, those who are born into this, will adapt more naturally. Possibly, but I remember my childhood. I remember my grandfather revising the capitals of the world with me. Buda and Pest were separated by the Danube, and Vienna had a Spanish riding school. If I were a child today, I could easily learn this information with apps and hyperlinks, but it really wouldn't be the same, because much later, I went to Vienna, and I went to the Spanish riding school, and I could feel my grandfather right beside me. Night after night, he took me up on the terrace, on his shoulders, and pointed out Jupiter and Saturn and the Great Bear to me. And even here, when I look at the Great Bear, I get back that feeling of being a child, hanging onto his head and trying to balance myself on his shoulder, and I can get back that feeling of being a child again. What I had with my grandfather was wrapped so often in information and knowledge and fact, but it was about so much more than information or knowledge or fact. Time-warping technology challenges our deepest core, because we are able to archive the past and some of it becomes hard to forget, even as the current moment is increasingly unmemorable. We want to clutch, and we are left instead clutching at a series of static moments. They're like soap bubbles that disappear when we touch them. By archiving everything, we think that we can store it, but time is not data. It cannot be stored. You and I know exactly what it means like to be truly present in a moment. It might have happened while we were playing an instrument, or looking into the eyes of someone we've known for a very long time. At such moments, our selves are complete. The self that lives in the long narrative arc and the self that experiences the moment become one. The present encapsulates the past and a promise for the future. The present joins a flow of time from before and after. I first experienced these feelings with my grandmother. I wanted to learn to skip, and she found an old rope and she tucked up her sari and she jumped over it. I wanted to learn to cook, and she kept me in the kitchen, cutting, cubing and chopping for a whole month. My grandmother taught me that things happen in the time they take, that time can't be fought, and because it will pass and it will move, we owe the present moment our full attention. Attention is time. One of my yoga instructors once said that love is attention, and definitely from my grandmother, love and attention were one and the same thing. The digital world cannibalizes time, and in doing so, I want to suggest that what it threatens is the completeness of ourselves. It threatens the flow of love. But we don't need to let it. We can choose otherwise. We've seen again and again just how creative technology can be, and in our lives and in our actions, we can choose those solutions and those innovations and those moments that restore the flow of time instead of fragmenting it. We can slow down and we can tune in to the ebb and flow of time. We can choose to take time back. Thank you. (Applause)	"颶風桑迪來的時候我正在紐約，和這個叫毛伊的小白狗住在一起。因為斷電，半個城市都是黑漆漆的。我就住在黑漆漆的這一邊。當時，毛伊很怕黑，我只好帶著牠上樓。其實是先下樓去遛狗，然後再把牠帶回來。我每天還要拖著好幾加侖的瓶裝水爬到七樓。這期間，我不得不咬著火炬當照明。附近商店沒有手電筒、電池和麵包。為了洗個澡，我走了40個街區，到我健身中心的另一個分店去。 但是這些都不是我那時候關心的主要問題。對我來說重要的是我要最早到達附近的一家咖啡館，拿著我的延長線及充電器給我的幾個電子設備充電。我開始尋找麵包店的長椅下和糕餅店出入口的那些插座。我不是唯一這樣做的人。即使是雨天，人們打著雨傘站在麥迪森大街和第五大道之間好從路邊的商家那兒給他們的手機充電。自然提醒了我們，它比我們所有的技術更加強大，但是我們仍然癡迷於這些需要電線的東西。 我覺得沒有什麼比一場危機更能讓你明白什麼重要而什麼不重要。颶風桑迪讓我意識到我們的電子設備和它們的連線能力對我們來說，就跟我們的食物和住所一樣重要。我們瞭解的那部分自我已不存在，我覺得，一個抽象的、 數位的宇宙已經成了我們本身的一部分，今天我就是想談談我是怎麼看待這件事的。 我是一位小說家，對認識自我（這樣的話題）很感興趣，因為自我和小說有很多共同點。他們都是故事，都有解釋。沒有故事，你和我也可以體驗不同的事情。我們可能爬樓梯爬得太快了，可能都喘不上氣來。我們對生活的感受越是強烈，它就越是抽象的，不直接的。我們生活裡的故事都是建立在直接經驗上，但那都是點綴。小說需要一個場景接著一個場景來建構，我們的人生故事同樣需要一個弧線，需要成年成月的故事積累。我們生命中那些聚散離合都自成章節，但故事並不來自這些章節，故事就是這整本書本身。它不僅只關於傷心欲絕和喜氣洋洋，不僅只關於勝利和失望，它闡述了因為這些事件，有時更重要的是，即便沒有這些事件，我們如何得以在這個世界上找到自己的位置，我們如何改變世界、改變我們自己。因此我們的故事需要有兩個時間軸：時間的長軸是我們的壽命，而每個直接體驗的當下就是某個時刻。能直接體驗的那個自我，只存在於某個特定的時刻，但是人都需要一連串的片段才能組合成一個故事。所以我們對自我的認識不僅需要大量的經歷，還需要流動的時間軸。時光流逝的痕跡都鑲嵌在每一個事件裡，鑲嵌在被侵蝕的沙粒裡，鑲嵌在萌萌欲綻的玫瑰花苞裡。沒有時光的流逝，我們就沒有音樂可聽。我們的自我情感和意識狀態，經常編寫在時光裡，無論是對過去的遺憾和留戀，還是對未來的展望和恐懼。 我想科技改變了通常意義上的時間流逝。我們的故事及生命的長度不停在增加，但是可紀錄的最小片斷、最短時刻卻在減小。歸功於我們的電子設備，我們可以紀錄的時間單位越來越小，因此，我們可以更加詳細地認識這個物質世界，如此詳細地認識產生了大量的數據，以致於我們的大腦不再能夠全部理解，為此我們需要更多複雜的電腦。這說明我們可以感知的事物和我們可以紀錄的事物之間的差距只會逐漸擴大。科學可以紀錄皮妙以內的事件，但你和我卻永遠不可能有一兆分之一秒的體驗。我和你只能對自然的節律和流動，對太陽、 月亮和季節變化做出回應。這就是為甚麼我們需要一個長的足以涵蓋過去、 現在和未來的時間弧來理解事情的原由，來分辨噪音中的信號和感知中的自我。我們需要時間弧來理解因果關係，不只是在物質的世界裡，也在我們自己的意圖和動機裡。當時間弧線的指針出現偏差時，會發生什麼呢？當時間扭曲時，會發生什麼呢？ 我們很多人現在都有這種的感覺，那就是時間軸在四處亂指，沒有哪次是一致的。這是因為時間在數位世界裡的流動方式和在自然界裡不一樣。我們都知道網路縮小了空間與時間。遠方發生的事情就像在這裡發生的。來自印度的新聞成了我智慧型手機app裡的一則消息，無論我是身在紐約或新德里。不只這樣，你上一份工作、去年的晚餐訂位、你以前的朋友，和你的新朋友一起躺在平原上，這都是由於網路具存檔功能，能扭曲過去。由於過去、現在和未來，這裡或那裡，已經沒有分別，而我們無時無刻都身處在這樣的時刻裡，這樣的時刻我稱之為數位現在式。 問題是我們如何對數位世界裡的事件進行先後排序呢？數位世界裡的現在並不代表此時此刻，而通常是發生在幾秒前，透過推特傳播的消息，和來自其他地區的新聞。這已經不是你腳上中了槍傷的現在，也不是你在糕點上咬上一口的那一刻，或者你在一本很棒的書裡沉浸的那三個小時。這個""現在""已經不足以為我們的自我狀態提供任何身體性或心理性的佐證。相反的，它在路上每一個轉彎處試圖分散我們的注意力。數位世界的每個路標都在邀請你離開正在專注的事情，去其他的地方做其他的事情。你正在閱讀一個作家的專訪嘛？為什麼不買他的書？推它？分享它？喜歡它？搜尋同類型的其他書籍。搜尋同在閱讀這本書的讀者。旅行可以是非常自由的，但當它變得無休止時，我們也就成了沒有休息日的流亡者。選擇是自由的，但如果不斷地為了選擇而選擇，那就不是自由了。 數位現在式已不僅不是現在，它還直接和真正的現在在競爭。這是因為不僅我在真正的現在缺席，你也是如此。不僅僅是我們缺席，其他人也是如此。所以，這裡存在著巨大的便利和隱憂。我可以在大半夜從網路上訂購外文書籍、購買巴黎的馬卡龍、給才剛接到的訊息做影音回覆。我總是可以在踩著和你不同的節奏與步調時，同時擁有著與你的時空緊密相扣的幻覺。 桑迪颶風是一個提醒，提醒我們可以去粉碎這樣的幻覺。有些人有電有水，有些人卻沒有。有些人的日常生活已經恢復，有些人即使已經過了好幾個月，卻仍然流離失所。出於某些原因，科技產品對於那些一直擁有它的人來說幾乎成了一個永恆的幻覺，然後，就像一記打在臉上的諷刺耳光，這幻覺成真了。舉例來說，有人說在印度，人們持有手機的比率比有廁所可上的比率還要來得高。若缺乏基礎建設與科技普及間存在著無法跨越的鴻溝，而這巨大鴻溝在世上許多地區都已普遍存在著，那麼數位世界和真實世界將會有更多的裂隙。生活在數位現在式裡的我們，把大部分清醒的時間花在數位產品上，我們面臨的挑戰是得在兩個平行且幾乎同步進行著的時間軸裡生活著。我們如何在這樣的煩亂中生活？ 我們也許會覺得，那些比我們年輕，生來就接觸這些電子產品的孩子，會更快地適應這樣的生活。也許吧。但我記得我的童年，我記得我的祖父和我一起研究世界各地的首都。布達和佩斯被多瑙河分開，維也納有西班牙騎術學校。如果我是現在的孩子，我可以輕鬆地通過app和超連結來學到這些資訊，但一定和我所學的不同，因為我長大後去過維也納，我去看了西班牙騎術學校，我能感覺到我的祖父就在我身邊。夜復一夜，他把我帶到露臺上我坐在他的肩上，他為我指出哪個是木星、土星，還有大熊星座。甚至在這裡，當我看著大熊星座，我能感覺自己回到了童年時，騎在他的肩上盡量保持平衡的樣子，我仍能找回童年時的感受。和祖父待在一起時的種種感覺，與那時學到的信息、知識和事實緊密連結，但那些記憶包含的，要比單純的信息、知識和事實要多得多。科技扭曲了時間的意涵，也挑戰著我們內心最深處的自我，因為我們能夠將過去存檔，使得有些事件變得難以忘懷，這甚至讓當下這個片刻，逐漸變得毫不起眼。我們想要留住每個時刻，卻反而只抓住一系列靜止的時刻。他們就像肥皂泡沫，一碰到就消失。 通過存檔，我們認為一切都可保存下來，但時間不是資料，它不能被存儲。你和我都很清楚的了解如何真實的去感受當下。這可能發生在我們演奏樂器時、或者一眼望進一個認識多年的人的眼眸裡時。在這些時刻裡，我們擁有了完整的自我。在生命敘事長軸上的我與正在體驗當下的自我合而為一。""現在""壓縮了過去與對未來的承諾。""現在""參與了時間的洪流，串連起過去和未來。 我第一次經歷這種感覺是在和祖母相處時。我想要學跳繩，於是她找來了一條舊繩子，接著她捲起莎麗後就跳過了那繩子。我想要學做飯，她把我留在廚房裡，讓我又切又剁了整整一個月。祖母教導我事情的發生需要時間來消化，這段時間是必要的，又因為這段時間會過去、會繼續向前進，所以我們應用心專注""現在""這個當下。專注就是時間。我的一個瑜伽導師曾經說過：愛就是專注，而對我祖母來說，愛和專注絕對是同一個東西。數位世界正吞噬著時間，因此，我要提醒大家它威脅到的是我們自我的完整性。它威脅到了愛的交流。但我們可以避免這樣的情況發生。我們可以選擇其它的辦法。我們已反覆見識到科技的創造力是如何體現在我們的生活和我們的行動裡，我們可以從中選出能還原時間流的解決方案、嶄新技術與吉光片羽，而不是讓時間分裂。我們可以放慢腳步並調整自我以配合時間流的潮起潮落。我們可以選擇把時間找回來。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
