Talk	en	zh-tw
abigail_washburn_building_us_china_relations_by_banjo	"If you had caught me straight out of college in the halls of the Vermont State House where I was a lobbyist in training and asked me what I was going to do with my life, I would have told you that I'd just passed the Hanyu Shuiping Kaoshi, the Chinese equivalency exam, and I was going to go study law in Beijing, and I was going to improve U.S.-China relations through top-down policy changes and judicial system reforms. (Laughter) (Applause) I had a plan, and I never ever thought it would have anything to do with the banjo. Little did I know what a huge impact it would have on me one night when I was at a party and I heard a sound coming out of a record player in the corner of a room. And it was Doc Watson singing and playing ""Shady Grove."" ♫ Shady Grove, my little love ♫ ♫ Shady Grove, my darlin' ♫ ♫ Shady Grove, my little love ♫ ♫ Going back to Harlan ♫ That sound was just so beautiful, the sound of Doc's voice and the rippling groove of the banjo. And after being totally and completely obsessed with the mammoth richness and history of Chinese culture, it was like this total relief to hear something so truly American and so truly awesome. I knew I had to take a banjo with me to China. So before going to law school in China I bought a banjo, I threw it in my little red truck and I traveled down through Appalachia and I learned a bunch of old American songs, and I ended up in Kentucky at the International Bluegrass Music Association Convention. And I was sitting in a hallway one night and a couple girls came up to me. And they said, ""Hey, do you want to jam?"" And I was like, ""Sure."" So I picked up my banjo and I nervously played four songs that I actually knew with them. And a record executive walked up to me and invited me to Nashville, Tennessee to make a record. (Laughter) It's been eight years, and I can tell you that I didn't go to China to become a lawyer. In fact, I went to Nashville. And after a few months I was writing songs. And the first song I wrote was in English, and the second one was in Chinese. (Music) [Chinese] Outside your door the world is waiting. Inside your heart a voice is calling. The four corners of the world are watching, so travel daughter, travel. Go get it, girl. (Applause) It's really been eight years since that fated night in Kentucky. And I've played thousands of shows. And I've collaborated with so many incredible, inspirational musicians around the world. And I see the power of music. I see the power of music to connect cultures. I see it when I stand on a stage in a bluegrass festival in east Virginia and I look out at the sea of lawn chairs and I bust out into a song in Chinese. [Chinese] And everybody's eyes just pop wide open like it's going to fall out of their heads. And they're like, ""What's that girl doing?"" And then they come up to me after the show and they all have a story. They all come up and they're like, ""You know, my aunt's sister's babysitter's dog's chicken went to China and adopted a girl."" And I tell you what, it like everybody's got a story. It's just incredible. And then I go to China and I stand on a stage at a university and I bust out into a song in Chinese and everybody sings along and they roar with delight at this girl with the hair and the instrument, and she's singing their music. And I see, even more importantly, the power of music to connect hearts. Like the time I was in Sichuan Province and I was singing for kids in relocation schools in the earthquake disaster zone. And this little girl comes up to me. [Chinese] ""Big sister Wong,"" Washburn, Wong, same difference. ""Big sister Wong, can I sing you a song that my mom sang for me before she was swallowed in the earthquake?"" And I sat down, she sat on my lap. She started singing her song. And the warmth of her body and the tears rolling down her rosy cheeks, and I started to cry. And the light that shone off of her eyes was a place I could have stayed forever. And in that moment, we weren't our American selves, we weren't our Chinese selves, we were just mortals sitting together in that light that keeps us here. I want to dwell in that light with you and with everyone. And I know U.S.-China relations doesn't need another lawyer. Thank you. (Applause)"	假如你在我大學剛畢業的時候認識我那時， 我還在佛蒙特州政府接受培訓，準備成為遊說員如果你問我的志向我會告訴你說我剛通過了漢語水平考試，也就是中文等級考試，而且我打算到北京去學習法律，然後致力於改進中美關係透過將政策改弦易轍和改革司法制度的方式。（笑聲）（掌聲）我曾經有這個計劃過，但是我從來都沒想到過我會用五弦琴來實現這個計劃。 我從沒想過那一夜對我的影響是如此巨大。那是在一個聚會上我聽到一個聲音是從房間角落的唱片機里傳出來。是多克.沃曾邊彈邊唱着那首 “格魯夫”.♫格魯夫，我的愛♫♫格魯夫，我親愛的♫♫格魯夫，我的愛♫♫ 回到哈蘭 ♫多克的聲音和五弦琴的繞樑之音配合在一起簡直是美妙至極在完全沉迷於中國文化巨大的豐富與歷史性之後，再聽到這樣純正美式的東西完全就像一種解脫簡直太美妙了。我意識到我必須帶着五弦琴去中國。 所以在去中國上法學院之前我買了一把五弦琴，丟到我那輛紅色的小卡車上然後一路旅遊到了阿巴拉契亞學到了不少美國的歌曲，最後到達肯塔基去看了國際藍草音樂聯合會會議。有一天晚上，我坐在大廳幾個女孩走了過來。她們問我，“嘿，你想和我配合彈幾曲嗎？”我回答，“當然。”然後，我拿起了我的琴緊張地彈了四首我會的歌曲。然後，一個唱片製作向我走了過來邀請我到田納西州的纳什维尔, 去製作唱片。 （笑聲） 8年了我可以告訴你的是，我沒有去中國成為律師事實上，我去了纳什维尔幾個月後，我開始寫歌。第一首歌，我用英語創作第二首歌，我就用中文寫 （音樂） ［中文］ 門外有個世界心中有個聲音四方等你來呀勇於遊歷去吧，女孩兒 （掌聲） 自從肯塔基那命中注定之夜後，到現在已經8年了我也已經演出了過逾千場和我合作過的有很多世界各地激發人靈感的出色音樂家我看到了音樂的力量我看到了音樂聯接文化的力量特別是在西維吉尼亞州的藍草音樂節我站在舞台上看着台下坐在草坪上的人海我突然間唱了首中文歌［中文］每個人都瞪大了眼睛就像眼珠子快掉了似的他們不禁在想，“那個女孩子在幹甚麼？”表演過後，他們紛紛來找我大家都有自己的故事比如說“你知道嗎，我阿姨的姊姊的保姆的狗的雞去中國了還領養了個女孩子”我告訴你，每一個人都有他自己的故事太神奇了在那之後，我去了中國在一個大學的舞台上我唱出了一首中文歌台下的每個人都跟著唱他們高興地沖着台上的這個女孩大聲唱儘管有着不同的頭髮，用着不一樣的樂器卻唱着他們的音樂 我認為，更重要的是音樂的力量能將心與心相連比如這次我在四川省的地震災區為臨時小學里的孩子們表演有個小女孩走到我身邊。“［中文］”“王大姐”沃什波恩，王，差不多啦。“王大姐，我可以給你唱一首我媽媽被地震吞噬前唱給我的歌嗎？“我坐了下來，她坐在我腿上開始唱着她的歌她身體傳來的溫度滑落她粉紅臉蛋的淚珠讓我開始哭閃爍在她眼睛里的淚光讓我久久不能忘懷 那一刻，我們不是美國人我們不是中國人我們只是凡人坐在一片將我們維繫在一起的光輝裡，我想和你們大家一起住在那片光裡而且我知道中美關係中也不需要再多一名律師 謝謝。 （掌聲）
