Talk	en	zh-tw
abigail_marsh_why_some_people_are_more_altruistic_than_others	"There's a man out there, somewhere, who looks a little bit like the actor Idris Elba, or at least he did 20 years ago. I don't know anything else about him, except that he once saved my life by putting his own life in danger. This man ran across four lanes of freeway traffic in the middle of the night to bring me back to safety after a car accident that could have killed me. And the whole thing left me really shaken up, obviously, but it also left me with this kind of burning, gnawing need to understand why he did it, what forces within him caused him to make the choice that I owe my life to, to risk his own life to save the life of a stranger? In other words, what are the causes of his or anybody else's capacity for altruism? But first let me tell you what happened. That night, I was 19 years old and driving back to my home in Tacoma, Washington, down the Interstate 5 freeway, when a little dog darted out in front of my car. And I did exactly what you're not supposed to do, which is swerve to avoid it. And I discovered why you're not supposed to do that. I hit the dog anyways, and that sent the car into a fishtail, and then a spin across the freeway, until finally it wound up in the fast lane of the freeway faced backwards into oncoming traffic and then the engine died. And I was sure in that moment that I was about to die too, but I didn't because of the actions of that one brave man who must have made the decision within a fraction of a second of seeing my stranded car to pull over and run across four lanes of freeway traffic in the dark to save my life. And then after he got my car working again and got me back to safety and made sure I was going to be all right, he drove off again. He never even told me his name, and I'm pretty sure I forgot to say thank you. So before I go any further, I really want to take a moment to stop and say thank you to that stranger. (Applause) I tell you all of this because the events of that night changed the course of my life to some degree. I became a psychology researcher, and I've devoted my work to understanding the human capacity to care for others. Where does it come from, and how does it develop, and what are the extreme forms that it can take? These questions are really important to understanding basic aspects of human social nature. A lot of people, and this includes everybody from philosophers and economists to ordinary people believe that human nature is fundamentally selfish, that we're only ever really motivated by our own welfare. But if that's true, why do some people, like the stranger who rescued me, do selfless things, like helping other people at enormous risk and cost to themselves? Answering this question requires exploring the roots of extraordinary acts of altruism, and what might make people who engage in such acts different than other people. But until recently, very little work on this topic had been done. The actions of the man who rescued me meet the most stringent definition of altruism, which is a voluntary, costly behavior motivated by the desire to help another individual. So it's a selfless act intended to benefit only the other. What could possibly explain an action like that? One answer is compassion, obviously, which is a key driver of altruism. But then the question becomes, why do some people seem to have more of it than others? And the answer may be that the brains of highly altruistic people are different in fundamental ways. But to figure out how, I actually started from the opposite end, with psychopaths. A common approach to understanding basic aspects of human nature, like the desire to help other people, is to study people in whom that desire is missing, and psychopaths are exactly such a group. Psychopathy is a developmental disorder with strongly genetic origins, and it results in a personality that's cold and uncaring and a tendency to engage in antisocial and sometimes very violent behavior. Once my colleagues and I at the National Institute of Mental Health conducted some of the first ever brain imaging research of psychopathic adolescents, and our findings, and the findings of other researchers now, have shown that people who are psychopathic pretty reliably exhibit three characteristics. First, although they're not generally insensitive to other people's emotions, they are insensitive to signs that other people are in distress. And in particular, they have difficulty recognizing fearful facial expressions like this one. And fearful expressions convey urgent need and emotional distress, and they usually elicit compassion and a desire to help in people who see them, so it makes sense that people who tend to lack compassion also tend to be insensitive to these cues. The part of the brain that's the most important for recognizing fearful expressions is called the amygdala. There are very rare cases of people who lack amygdalas completely, and they're profoundly impaired in recognizing fearful expressions. And whereas healthy adults and children usually show big spikes in amygdala activity when they look at fearful expressions, psychopaths' amygdalas are underreactive to these expressions. Sometimes they don't react at all, which may be why they have trouble detecting these cues. Finally, psychopaths' amygdalas are smaller than average by about 18 or 20 percent. So all of these findings are reliable and robust, and they're very interesting. But remember that my main interest is not understanding why people don't care about others. It's understanding why they do. So the real question is, could extraordinary altruism, which is the opposite of psychopathy in terms of compassion and the desire to help other people, emerge from a brain that is also the opposite of psychopathy? A sort of antipsychopathic brain, better able to recognize other people's fear, an amygdala that's more reactive to this expression and maybe larger than average as well? As my research has now shown, all three things are true. And we discovered this by testing a population of truly extraordinary altruists. These are people who have given one of their own kidneys to a complete stranger. So these are people who have volunteered to undergo major surgery so that one of their own healthy kidneys can be removed and transplanted into a very ill stranger that they've never met and may never meet. ""Why would anybody do this?"" is a very common question. And the answer may be that the brains of these extraordinary altruists have certain special characteristics. They are better at recognizing other people's fear. They're literally better at detecting when somebody else is in distress. This may be in part because their amygdala is more reactive to these expressions. And remember, this is the same part of the brain that we found was underreactive in people who are psychopathic. And finally, their amygdalas are larger than average as well, by about eight percent. So together, what these data suggest is the existence of something like a caring continuum in the world that's anchored at the one end by people who are highly psychopathic, and at the other by people who are very compassionate and driven to acts of extreme altruism. But I should add that what makes extraordinary altruists so different is not just that they're more compassionate than average. They are, but what's even more unusual about them is that they're compassionate and altruistic not just towards people who are in their own innermost circle of friends and family. Right? Because to have compassion for people that you love and identify with is not extraordinary. Truly extraordinary altruists' compassion extends way beyond that circle, even beyond their wider circle of acquaintances to people who are outside their social circle altogether, total strangers, just like the man who rescued me. And I've had the opportunity now to ask a lot of altruistic kidney donors how it is that they manage to generate such a wide circle of compassion that they were willing to give a complete stranger their kidney. And I found it's a really difficult question for them to answer. I say, ""How is it that you're willing to do this thing when so many other people don't? You're one of fewer than 2,000 Americans who has ever given a kidney to a stranger. What is it that makes you so special?"" And what do they say? They say, ""Nothing. There's nothing special about me. I'm just the same as everybody else."" And I think that's actually a really telling answer, because it suggests that the circles of these altruists don't look like this, they look more like this. They have no center. These altruists literally don't think of themselves as being at the center of anything, as being better or more inherently important than anybody else. When I asked one altruist why donating her kidney made sense to her, she said, ""Because it's not about me."" Another said, ""I'm not different. I'm not unique. Your study here is going to find out that I'm just the same as you."" I think the best description for this amazing lack of self-centeredness is humility, which is that quality that in the words of St. Augustine makes men as angels. And why is that? It's because if there's no center of your circle, there can be no inner rings or outer rings, nobody who is more or less worthy of your care and compassion than anybody else. And I think that this is what really distinguishes extraordinary altruists from the average person. But I also think that this is a view of the world that's attainable by many and maybe even most people. And I think this because at the societal level, expansions of altruism and compassion are already happening everywhere. The psychologist Steven Pinker and others have shown that all around the world people are becoming less and less accepting of suffering in ever-widening circles of others, which has led to declines of all kinds of cruelty and violence, from animal abuse to domestic violence to capital punishment. And it's led to increases in all kinds of altruism. A hundred years ago, people would have thought it was ludicrous how normal and ordinary it is for people to donate their blood and bone marrow to complete strangers today. Is it possible that a hundred years from now people will think that donating a kidney to a stranger is just as normal and ordinary as we think donating blood and bone marrow is today? Maybe. So what's at the root of all these amazing changes? In part it seems to be increases in wealth and standards of living. As societies become wealthier and better off, people seem to turn their focus of attention outward, and as a result, all kinds of altruism towards strangers increases, from volunteering to charitable donations and even altruistic kidney donations. But all of these changes also yield a strange and paradoxical result, which is that even as the world is becoming a better and more humane place, which it is, there's a very common perception that it's becoming worse and more cruel, which it's not. And I don't know exactly why this is, but I think it may be that we now just know so much more about the suffering of strangers in distant places, and so we now care a lot more about the suffering of those distant strangers. But what's clear is the kinds of changes we're seeing show that the roots of altruism and compassion are just as much a part of human nature as cruelty and violence, maybe even more so, and while some people do seem to be inherently more sensitive to the suffering of distant others, I really believe that the ability to remove oneself from the center of the circle and expand the circle of compassion outward to include even strangers is within reach for almost everyone. Thank you. (Applause)"	一位男子站在那，長的有點神似演員伊卓瑞斯·艾巴，或者是艾巴20年前的樣子。除了他鋌而走險救了我一命以外，我對他一無所知。在夜裡，男子橫穿4條高速行車道，將我從一場致命車禍中救出，並且將我帶到到安全的地方。整個事件讓我相當恐慌，但也留下了一個纏繞在心頭、揮之不去的困惑，讓我想了解為什麼他要這麼做。是什麼樣的動力讓他決定冒著喪失性命的風險去拯救一個陌生人的命？換句話說，哪種因素造就了他或者其他人的利他行為？ 在開始之前，讓我先告訴你們這故事。事件當晚，我那時19歲，我正要開車返回位於華盛頓州塔科馬的家，要下第五洲際公路時，一隻小狗飛奔到我的車子前方。我立刻轉向避免撞上牠，雖然這並不是一個值得大家學習的做法。並且，我發現不該這麼做的原因。我最終還是撞到了那條狗，我的車子也劇烈搖晃，最且開始在公路上打轉，最後停在了公路的快車道上，逆向面對即將而來的車輛，此時我的引擎卻無法發動。我非常確定，那個瞬間，我將喪失性命但我沒有。因為一位勇敢的男子，做出行動，在看見我拋錨的車子後，下定決心，把車停在路旁，在昏暗不明的黑夜中，飛奔過4條行車道，救了我一命。事後他幫我的車子修理處理好，並且帶我到了安全的地點確保一切無恙後，他才開車離去。他甚至沒有告訴我他的名字﹐而我也清楚記得，我忘記道謝了。 在我繼續講下去之前，我真的很想花點時間好好地答謝那位陌生人。 （掌聲） 我將這件事情告訴你們，是因為那晚的事情，某些程度上地改變了我的人生課題，我成為了一位心理學研究者，並且致力於理解人類照顧他人的能力。究竟這能力是怎麼來的？又是怎麼發展的?為什麼在極端的情況也能展現出來？這些問題對於理解人類的社會性來說，是相當重要的基本方面。有許多人，包括各種職業像是哲學家、經濟學家甚至是一般人，都認為人性是自私的，人們總是因為有利可圖才行動。但如果人真如此，為何有些人會做一些對無私的事像是冒著風險幫助別人，或像那位陌生人一樣幫助我呢？要想回答這個疑問，我們需要探索利他行為的根源，為什麼有些人不同於他人，會願意參與這樣非凡的舉動呢？到目前為止，幾乎沒有研究探討這樣的議題。 幫助我的那位男子符合了利他主義的最極端定義， 即是志願性地、大投入地並且強烈地渴望幫助他人。這是無私的舉動，他們試圖帶給人們利益。該如何解釋這樣的舉動呢？顯然，第一個答案是同情心，這是驅動利他行為的重點。但這樣問題又變成了為什麼某些人會比其他人更有同情心？答案可能是具高度利他行為的人們本質上腦袋就跟其他人不同。 為了去找出緣由，我從反面思考著手，研究一些精神病患者。想要研究幫助他人的天性，我們採用了一個普遍的研究方法，即是去研究某些失去這些天性的人們，像是一些精神病患者就很符合這項特徵。這些精神病患者由於基因上的缺陷，導致發展過程中具有缺陷，最終造成他們的冷酷無情，這讓他們傾向利用一些反社會甚至暴利行為解決事情。在國家心理衛生研究院我和同事拍攝了第一例患有精神疾病青少年的腦部影像，我們及後續研究者的發現都顯示出患有精神疾病的人們擁有三個相關性極高的特徵。首先，他們對於感受別人的情緒並沒有遲鈍的表現，但是對於他人的痛苦情緒卻難以感受。特別是，他們對於辨識恐懼的臉部表情有障礙，像這張圖。而恐懼的表情傳遞了一個人的急迫及精神上的痛苦，一般人見到恐懼的表情，通常都會被激起同情心，並想要伸出援手，所以合理的推論是，缺乏同情心的人其實是難以感受這些暗示的。 在大腦中，分辨恐懼表情的重要部分叫做杏仁核。極少數的人有杏仁核發展不全的症狀，而這些人對於恐懼表情的辨識都有相當程度的障礙。儘管他們是身體健康的成人或小孩，他們在看到恐懼的表情時，腦中杏仁核的活性都有嚴重的阻礙，精神病患者的杏仁核對這些表情感受不活躍。有時候他們根本沒有反應，或許這就是為何他們在感受恐懼表情上會有障礙。精神病患者的杏仁核比正常人還小18-20% 因此，這些發現的可信度相當高，同時也是相當有趣的發現。但請記得我主要感興趣的並非為何有些人不關心他人。而是為何人會關心他人。所以真正的問題是，精神病患者的相反面，充滿同情心並可望幫助他人的人們，那些非凡的利他行為，是否因為他們的大腦與精神病患者也完全相反？非精神病患者的大腦，是否就能辨識人們恐懼的臉孔？是否他們的杏仁核對這個表情能活化？或者他們的杏仁核比正常人的還要大？ 依據我的研究，三者皆是。透過測試那些真的具有利他行為的人，我們發現了這些現象。那些受試者很樂意將自己的腎臟，去提供給一位陌生人。這些人自願承受大型手術，將他們自己的健康腎臟轉移，到另一位虛弱的陌生人身上，他們甚至從未見過這些陌生人。「為什麼會有人這樣做？」這是一個大家都想知道的問題。而答案可能是因為這些具非凡利他行為的人，他們的大腦有一些特別之處。他們更善於感受他人的恐懼。他們確實更能偵測到別人的痛苦情緒。可能有部分是因為他們的杏仁核對這些表情的反應更加活耀。提醒一下，精神病患者腦中同一個部位對此是不活耀的。最後一點，我們發現具利他行為的人，他們的杏仁核比常人大了8%。綜上所述，這些資訊顯示了世界上的人們可能存在於這條愛心連續曲線上，有的人在精神疾病的極端，不具同情心，也有人非常地有同情心，導致他們有極端的利他行為。 但我要強調，這些非凡的利他行為並不僅是因為他們的同情心強於常人。他們其實是更加地與眾不同，他們的同情心跟利他行為不僅是對於最接近自己的人際關係，像是朋友跟家人，對吧？因為對你所愛的人有同情心，並不能算是非凡的行為。真正非凡的利他者的同情心，會延伸至圈外．甚至延伸到熟人圈之外，延伸到自己社交圈以外的所有人，所有的陌生人，就像是那位拯救我的男子那樣。 我曾問願意捐贈腎臟的人們：如何才能將自己的同情心的範圍擴大，擴大到使他們願意將腎臟捐給完全不認識的陌生人？而我發現這對他們來說是非常困難的問題， 我問：「是什麼讓你願意去做這件大多數人都不願意做的事？每2000位美國人中都不會有一位像你這樣願意將腎臟捐給陌生人的人，是什麼讓你變得如此特別？」 他們怎麼說？ 他們說：「沒什麼，對我來說這沒什麼特別。我跟其他人都是一樣的。」 而我想，這確實就是真正的答案了，因為正顯示出了，這些人的人際圈看起來不像這樣，而是像這樣，他們沒有中心自我。這些利他主義者不認為自己是在任何事物的中心，他們並不覺得自己比其他人更優秀或獨特。當我問一位利他主義者，為什麼捐贈腎臟對她來說是正常的，她說：「因為這不只是關係到我自己。」另一位利他主義者說：「我跟其他人沒什麼不同，我並不是獨一無二。你的研究中應該也發現了，其實我與你沒什麼不同。」 我認為對於這樣缺乏自我中心的性格，最好的敘述是謙卑，而謙卑二字正是使聖奧古斯丁，最後成為天使的原因。為什麼呢？因為如果你的人際圈中沒有中心，那就沒有內圈，也沒有外圈了，沒有人更值得也沒有人不值得你去表現同情心。我認為這是最非凡利他者與一般人最大的差異。 但我認為對大多數的人來說，這是一個崇高的願景。我認為從社會層面上來看，利他主義及同情心已經擴張到每個角落。心理學家史迪芬．平克跟其他研究者表示，世界上的人們越來越難接受人際圈以外的人們受到折磨，所以許多殘忍、暴力的事件才會越來越少像是虐待動物、家庭暴力及死刑。而各種利他行為越來越多。一百多年前，人們認為捐贈血液及骨髓，是非常荒謬可笑的事，但在今日，這項行為卻是相當普遍。也許在百年之後，人們會認為捐讚腎臟給陌生人是一件再普通不過的事，就像我們今日認為捐血跟骨髓很普通一樣。或許， 這些驚人變化的根源，某部分或許是源自於財富的增加或生活水平的進步。社會變得更富有、更好，人們會開始將注意力轉向其他方面。因此，對陌生人的利他行為增加了，從志工服務、慷慨地捐錢甚至是捐出自己的腎臟。但所有的改變都顯示一個奇怪又矛盾的結果，世界正在變得更好更友善，然而，大眾的理解是，世界變得更糟糕更暴力了，這跟前面敘述的牴觸。我並不清楚為何會如此，但我認為可能是因為我們只能在能力範圍內，關心我們所知正在受苦的人們，而如今的我們能夠知道更遙遠的地方還有更多痛苦的人。但明顯的事，我們看到的現況表現出利他及同情心的根源，其實與人類的殘忍及暴力是相去不遠的，或許同情心還比較多一些，某些人與生俱有較強的感受力去體會他人的痛苦。我相信將自我移除於圓圈中心的能力，我相信將自我移除於圓圈中心的能力，並且將圓圈及同情心擴展出去，納入陌生人們的能力就存於每個人身上。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
