Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_garone_healthier_men_one_moustache_at_a_time	"I think the beautiful Malin [Akerman] put it perfectly. Every man deserves the opportunity to grow a little bit of luxury. Ladies and gentlemen, and more importantly, Mo Bros and Mo Sistas — (Laughter) — for the next 17 minutes, I'm going to share with you my Movember journey, and how, through that journey, we've redefined charity, we're redefining the way prostate cancer researchers are working together throughout the world, and I hope, through that process, that I inspire you to create something significant in your life, something significant that will go on and make this world a better place. So the most common question I get asked, and I'm going to answer it now so I don't have to do it over drinks tonight, is how did this come about? How did Movember start? Well, normally, a charity starts with the cause, and someone that is directly affected by a cause. They then go on to create an event, and beyond that, a foundation to support that. Pretty much in every case, that's how a charity starts. Not so with Movember. Movember started in a very traditional Australian way. It was on a Sunday afternoon. I was with my brother and a mate having a few beers, and I was watching the world go by, had a few more beers, and the conversation turned to '70s fashion — (Laughter) — and how everything manages to come back into style. And a few more beers, I said, ""There has to be some stuff that hasn't come back."" (Laughter) Then one more beer and it was, whatever happened to the mustache? Why hasn't that made a comeback? (Laughter) So then there was a lot more beers, and then the day ended with a challenge to bring the mustache back. (Laughter) So in Australia, ""mo"" is slang for mustache, so we renamed the month of November ""Movember"" and created some pretty basic rules, which still stand today. And they are: start the month clean-shaven, rock a mustache — not a beard, not a goatee, a mustache — for the 30 days of November, and then we agreed that we would come together at the end of the month, have a mustache-themed party, and award a prize for the best, and of course, the worst mustache. (Laughter) Now trust me, when you're growing a mustache back in 2003, and there were 30 of us back then, and this was before the ironic hipster mustache movement — (Laughter) — it created a lot of controversy. (Laughter) So my boss wouldn't let me go and see clients. My girlfriend at the time, who's no longer my girlfriend — (Laughter) — hated it. Parents would shuffle kids away from us. (Laughter) But we came together at the end of the month and we celebrated our journey, and it was a real journey. And we had a lot of fun, and in 2004, I said to the guys, ""That was so much fun. We need to legitimize this so we can get away with it year on year."" (Laughter) So we started thinking about that, and we were inspired by the women around us and all they were doing for breast cancer. And we thought, you know what, there's nothing for men's health. Why is that? Why can't we combine growing a mustache and doing something for men's health? And I started to research that topic, and discovered prostate cancer is the male equivalent of breast cancer in terms of the number of men that die from it and are diagnosed with it. But there was nothing for this cause, so we married growing a mustache with prostate cancer, and then we created our tagline, which is, ""Changing the face of men's health."" And that eloquently describes the challenge, changing your appearance for the 30 days, and also the outcome that we're trying to achieve: getting men engaged in their health, having them have a better understanding about the health risks that they face. So with that model, I then cold-called the CEO of the Prostate Cancer Foundation. I said to him, ""I've got the most amazing idea that's going to transform your organization."" (Laughter) And I didn't want to share with him the idea over the phone, so I convinced him to meet with me for coffee in Melbourne in 2004. And we sat down, and I shared with him my vision of getting men growing mustaches across Australia, raising awareness for this cause, and funds for his organization. And I needed a partnership to legitimately do that. And I said, ""We're going to come together at the end, we're going to have a mustache-themed party, we're going to have DJs, we're going to celebrate life, and we're going to change the face of men's health."" And he just looked at me and laughed, and he said, he said, ""Adam, that's a really novel idea, but we're an ultraconservative organization. We can't have anything to do with you."" (Laughter) So I paid for coffee that day — (Laughter) — and his parting comment as we shook hands was, ""Listen, if you happen to raise any money out of this, we'll gladly take it."" (Laughter) So my lesson that year was persistence. And we persisted, and we got 450 guys growing mustaches, and together we raised 54,000 dollars, and we donated every cent of that to the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia, and that represented at the time the single biggest donation they'd ever received. So from that day forward, my life has become about a mustache. Every day — this morning, I wake up and go, my life is about a mustache. (Laughter) Essentially, I'm a mustache farmer. (Laughter) And my season is November. (Applause) (Applause) So in 2005, the campaign got more momentum, was more successful in Australia and then New Zealand, and then in 2006 we came to a pivotal point. It was consuming so much of our time after hours on weekends that we thought, we either need to close this down or figure a way to fund Movember so that I could quit my job and go and spend more time in the organization and take it to the next level. It's really interesting when you try and figure a way to fund a fundraising organization built off growing mustaches. (Laughter) Let me tell you that there's not too many people interested in investing in that, not even the Prostate Cancer Foundation, who we'd raised about 1.2 million dollars for at that stage. So again we persisted, and Foster's Brewing came to the party and gave us our first ever sponsorship, and that was enough for me to quit my job, I did consulting on the side. And leading into Movember 2006, we'd run through all the money from Foster's, we'd run through all the money I had, and essentially we had no money left, and we'd convinced all our suppliers — creative agencies, web development agencies, hosting companies, whatnot — to delay their billing until December. So we'd racked up at this stage about 600,000 dollars worth of debt. So if Movember 2006 didn't happen, the four founders, well, we would've been broke, we would've been homeless, sitting on the street with mustaches. (Laughter) But we thought, you know what, if that's the worst thing that happens, so what? We're going to have a lot of fun doing it, and it taught us the importance of taking risks and really smart risks. Then in early 2007, a really interesting thing happened. We had Mo Bros from Canada, from the U.S., and from the U.K. emailing us and calling us and saying, hey, there's nothing for prostate cancer. Bring this campaign to these countries. So we thought, why not? Let's do it. So I cold-called the CEO of Prostate Cancer Canada, and I said to him, ""I have this most amazing concept."" (Laughter) ""It's going to transform your organization. I don't want to tell you about it now, but will you meet with me if I fly all the way to Toronto?"" So I flew here, met down on Front Street East, and we sat in the boardroom, and I said, ""Right, here's my vision of getting men growing mustaches all across Canada raising awareness and funds for your organization."" And he looked at me and laughed and said, ""Adam, sounds like a really novel idea, but we're an ultraconservative organization."" (Laughter) I've heard this before. I know how it goes. But he said, ""We will partner with you, but we're not going to invest in it. You need to figure a way to bring this campaign across here and make it work."" So what we did was, we took some of the money that we raised in Australia to bring the campaign across to this country, the U.S, and the U.K., and we did that because we knew, if this was successful, we could raise infinitely more money globally than we could just in Australia. And that money fuels research, and that research will get us to a cure. And we're not about finding an Australian cure or a Canadian cure, we're about finding the cure. So in 2007, we brought the campaign across here, and it was, it set the stage for the campaign. It wasn't as successful as we thought it would be. We were sort of very gung ho with our success in Australia and New Zealand at that stage. So that year really taught us the importance of being patient and really understanding the local market before you become so bold as to set lofty targets. But what I'm really pleased to say is, in 2010, Movember became a truly global movement. Canada was just pipped to the post in terms of the number one fundraising campaign in the world. Last year we had 450,000 Mo Bros spread across the world and together we raised 77 million dollars. (Applause) And that makes Movember now the biggest funder of prostate cancer research and support programs in the world. And that is an amazing achievement when you think about us growing mustaches. (Laughter) And for us, we have redefined charity. Our ribbon is a hairy ribbon. (Laughter) Our ambassadors are the Mo Bros and the Mo Sistas, and I think that's been fundamental to our success. We hand across our brand and our campaign to those people. We let them embrace it and interpret it in their own way. So now I live in Los Angeles, because the Prostate Cancer Foundation of the U.S. is based there, and I always get asked by the media down there, because it's so celebrity-driven, ""Who are your celebrity ambassadors?"" And I say to them, ""Last year we were fortunate enough to have 450,000 celebrity ambassadors."" And they go, ""What, what do you mean?"" And it's like, everything single person, every single Mo Bro and Mo Sista that participates in Movember is our celebrity ambassador, and that is so, so important and fundamental to our success. Now what I want to share with you is one of my most touching Movember moments, and it happened here in Toronto last year, at the end of the campaign. I was out with a team. It was the end of Movember. We'd had a great campaign, and to be honest, we'd had our fair share of beer that night, but I said, ""You know what, I think we've got one more bar left in us."" (Laughter) So we piled into a taxi, and this is our taxi driver, and I was sitting in the back seat, and he turned around and said, ""Where are you going?"" And I said, ""Hang on, that is an amazing mustache."" (Laughter) And he said, ""I'm doing it for Movember."" And I said, ""So am I."" And I said, ""Tell me your Movember story."" And he goes, ""Listen, I know it's about men's health, I know it's about prostate cancer, but this is for breast cancer."" And I said, ""Okay, that's interesting."" And he goes, ""Last year, my mom passed away from breast cancer in Sri Lanka, because we couldn't afford proper treatment for her,"" and he said, ""This mustache is my tribute to my mom."" And we sort of all choked up in the back of the taxi, and I didn't tell him who I was, because I didn't think it was appropriate, and I just shook his hand and I said, ""Thank you so much. Your mom would be so proud."" And from that moment I realized that Movember is so much more than a mustache, having a joke. It's about each person coming to this platform, embracing it in their own way, and being significant in their own life. For us now at Movember, we really focus on three program areas, and having a true impact: awareness and education, survivor support programs, and research. Now we always focus, naturally, on how much we raise, because it's a very tangible outcome, but for me, awareness and education is more important than the funds we raise, because I know that is changing and saving lives today, and it's probably best exampled by a young guy that I met at South by Southwest in Austin, Texas, at the start of the year. He came up to me and said, ""Thank you for starting Movember."" And I said, ""Thank you for doing Movember."" And I looked at him, and I was like, ""I'm pretty sure you can't grow a mustache."" (Laughter) And I said, ""What's your Movember story?"" And he said, ""I grew the worst mustache ever."" (Laughter) ""But I went home for Thanksgiving dinner, and pretty quickly the conversation around the table turned to what the hell was going on."" (Laughter) ""And we talked — I talked to them about Movember, and then after that, my dad came up to me, and at the age of 26, for the first time ever, I had a conversation with my dad one on one about men's health. I had a conversation with my dad about prostate cancer, and I learned that my grandfather had prostate cancer and I was able to share with my dad that he was twice as likely to get that disease, and he didn't know that, and he hadn't been getting screened for it."" So now, that guy is getting screened for prostate cancer. So those conversations, getting men engaged in this, at whatever age, is so critically important, and in my view so much more important than the funds we raise. Now to the funds we raise, and research, and how we're redefining research. We fund prostate cancer foundations now in 13 countries. We literally fund hundreds if not thousands of institutions and researchers around the world, and when we looked at this more recently, we realized there's a real lack of collaboration going on even within institutions, let alone nationally, let alone globally, and this is not unique to prostate cancer. This is cancer research the world over. And so we said, right, we'd redefined charity. We need to redefine the way these guys operate. How do we do that? So what we did was, we created a global action plan, and we're taking 10 percent of what's raised in each country now and putting it into a global fund, and we've got the best prostate cancer scientific minds in the world that look after that fund, and they come together each year and identify the number one priority, and that, last year, was getting a better screening test. So they identified that as a priority, and then they've got and recruited now 300 researchers from around the world that are studying that topic, essentially the same topic. So now we're funding them to the tune of about five or six million dollars to collaborate and bringing them together, and that's a unique thing in the cancer world, and we know, through that collaboration, it will accelerate outcomes. And that's how we're redefining the research world. So, what I know about my Movember journey is that, with a really creative idea, with passion, with persistence, and a lot of patience, four mates, four mustaches, can inspire a room full of people, and that room full of people can go on and inspire a city, and that city is Melbourne, my home. And that city can go on and inspire a state, and that state can go on and inspire a nation, and beyond that, you can create a global movement that is changing the face of men's health. My name is Adam Garone, and that's my story. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想美女 Malin （Akerman） 說得真是太好了。每個男人都該有留小鬍子的權利。 各位女士、先生們，還有貴賓級的，鬍哥、鬍姐們，-（笑聲）-在接下來的17分鐘，我將與你們分享我「小鬍子11月」的旅程，且透過旅程讓你們知道，我們如何重新定義了公益概念，還有全世界研究前列腺癌的專家們合作的方式，我希望透過這個過程可以啟發你們，在人生中做些不同凡響的事，這些重要的事蹟會傳承下去讓這世界更美好。 人們最常問我的問題，而且我馬上就會公布答案，這樣我今晚喝酒時就不用再回答一次，也就是這事是怎麼發生的?「小鬍子11月」是怎麼開始的?通常公益活動都有個起因，有個人因為這個原因直接受了影響。然後大家辦了個活動，甚至成立基金會贊助，八九不離十，多數公益活動就是這麼來的。不過「小鬍子11月」就不一樣了。它是以非常傳統的澳洲風格而生，在一個星期天的下午。我跟我兄弟及一個朋友一起喝啤酒，我就這樣看世界隨時光流逝，再喝點酒，於是我們的話題就這麼轉到70年代的風光年華-（笑聲）-還有復古風如何的興起。再多喝了些酒，然後我說：「一定有什麼是沒有重新流行的。」（笑聲）再喝一罐啤酒，答案出來了，小鬍子跑哪去了?為什麼小鬍子沒有再次流行?（笑聲）在更多的黃湯下肚後，這天就結束在如何將小鬍子帶回潮流的挑戰中。（笑聲） 在澳洲，""mo""就是口語的小鬍子(mustache)，因此我們把11月 (November) 改命名成「小鬍子月」(Movember)設定一些至今仍然站得住腳的簡單的規定。如下：11月初先把鬍子刮乾淨，留一把好鬍子 — 不是普通的鬍子，也不是山羊鬍，而是小鬍子 —11月整整30天都蓄鬍，接著我們決定在月底的時候聚在一塊，辦一個小鬍子主題的派對，另外還會有頒獎典禮頒給本屆最佳，當然也有最糟的小鬍子成員。（笑聲） 相信我，當你在留小鬍子的時候，在2003年時，當時我們有30個成員，那還是在小鬍子成為嬉皮不想融入社會而進行的諷刺蓄鬍活動前-(笑聲)-我們的行為在當時引發了相當大的爭議。（笑聲）所以我的老闆不准我去接待客戶。我當時的女友，現在當然不是-（笑聲）-，厭惡小鬍子。家長們會刻意將孩子與我們保持距離。（笑聲）但是我們還是在月底的時候聚在一塊，一起慶祝我們的旅程，那確實是值得歌頌的。我們玩得非常開心，而到了2004年，我告訴我的朋友們：「去年真的是太好玩了，我們得把它合法化，這樣我們才能一年接著一年的瘋下去。」（笑聲） 於是我們集思廣益，接著我們受到來自我們周遭的女性及她們為乳癌所作一切的啟發。我們想似乎沒人為男性的健康做了些什麼。為什麼會這樣? 我們何不把蓄小鬍子運動和男性健康連成一塊呢?我接著朝這個方向研究，然後發現男性的前列腺癌就相當是女性的乳癌，這是以男性死亡率和罹患率數據為參考的情況下而言。 但顯然當時沒有人為此做些什麼，因此我們決定把小鬍子和前列腺癌送作堆，然後我們創了一個標語：「改頭換面換男性健康。」這口號有力地闡述了我們的理念，改變自己的容貌30天，同時也述說了我們試著達成的目的：讓男性同胞關心自己的健康，好讓他們進一步的了解自己面臨的健康風險。 就在以這個模式為前提的情況下，我撥了通電話給我不認識的前列腺癌基金會執行長。我對他說：「我有個空前絕後的好點子可以改變你的組織。」（笑聲）我可不想在電話上跟他透露我的想法，所以我說服他到墨爾本和我一起喝杯咖啡，那是2004年的事。我們坐在椅子上，和他分享我的好點子讓全澳洲的男性在臉上留小鬍子，來提升大家對這個疾病的認知，以及幫基金會募款。所以我需要合作關係使這個活動合法化。我說：「我們會在活動尾聲時聚在一起，辦一場小鬍子主題派對，現場會有DJ，我們會一同慶祝生命，且我們要幫男性健康改頭換面。」他聽了後看著我大笑，接著說：「Adam，這的確是個很有創意的點子，不過我們可是一個超級保守的組織，我們絕對不能和你沾上任何關係。」（笑聲）於是那天我付了咖啡錢，-（笑聲）-而當我們握手時他的離別建言是，「聽著，如果你真的靠這個點子募到錢的話，我們是很樂意收下捐款的。」（笑聲） 於是「堅持」是我在那年學到的一課。我們堅持走下去，然後募集到了450個成員一起留小鬍子，總共募到了5萬4千元捐款，我們一毛不剩地全都捐給了澳洲前列腺癌基金會，這可是基金會有史以來收過數目最大的一筆單筆捐款。 從那天起，我的人生和小鬍子脫離不了關係了。每一天都是 — 今天早上，我起床後，我的一整天就是小鬍子。（笑聲）就本質而言，我是一個小鬍子農夫。（笑聲）我的季節是十一月。(掌聲) 2005年時，我們投入更多心力宣傳，在澳洲和紐西蘭受到廣泛迴響，接著在2006年，我們面臨一個關鍵點。這件事佔據了我們太多時間，每個周末得花好幾個小時在這上面，我們要不就是得結束整件事，不然得想個方法募得小鬍子11月的資金，所以我可以辭掉現在的工作，花更多的時間在組織上且將它帶入另一個層次。 當你試著想辦法替為了留小鬍子而建立的募款組織募款，這真的是件很有趣的事。我跟你說很少人有興趣仔細調查，連到那時我們已經幫忙募得120萬元的前列腺癌基金會都沒有興趣。我們再一次堅持下去，澳洲的富士達酒業來參加派對，給我們第一筆贊助，足夠讓我辭掉工作，我另外接些顧問工作。到了2006年的小鬍子11月，我們用完富士達酒業給我們所有的錢，我們完用我自己所有的錢，實質上我們沒有錢了，而且我們通知所有的創意事務所，網路發展事務所，協辦公司，我們得延到12月才能付款。那時候我們債台高築，欠了價值60萬元。於是沒有2006年的小鬍子11月，當時四個創辦人有可能會破產，有可能無家可歸，坐在街上，臉上留著小鬍子。（笑聲）但我們想，如果這不是最糟的事，還會怎麼樣呢？我們將會有很多樂趣推動這件事，而且它教導我們做些真的很聰明的冒險的重要性。 在2007年初時，一件很有趣的事發生了。來自加拿大，美國和英國的鬍哥們寄email和打電話給我們，說他們沒有跟前列腺癌有關的事情。將宣傳推廣到這這些國家。於是我們想，為何不呢？就這麼做吧。我打電話給不認識的加拿大前列腺癌基金會執行長，我跟他說：「我有個空前絕後的好點子。」(笑聲)將可以改變你的組織。我不想現在告訴你，但如果我飛到多倫多的話，你是否會和我見面？」所以我搭飛機飛到這，在前東街會面，找了間會議室坐下來，我說：「好，我想藉由讓全加拿大男人留小鬍子以提升人們的關注且為你的組織募款。」他看著我，笑著說：「Adam，這的確是個很有創意的點子，不過我們可是一個超級保守的組織。」(笑聲)這我以前已經聽過了。我知道實情會怎麼發展下去。但他說：「我們將和你合夥，但我們沒辦法投資。你必須想個辦法在這裡宣傳，讓大家接受。」 於是我們當時做的就是將在澳洲募得的一些錢挪來用在加拿大，美國和英國的宣傳上，因為我們知道，如果成功的話，我們可以募得來自全球無限的款項，比之前在澳洲募得的還要多。而這些金錢可用來研究，研究可帶來治療方法。我們不要找到澳洲的治療方法，或者加拿大的治療方法，我們要的就是治療方法。 於是在2007年，我們將宣傳帶到這裡，這為宣傳打了基礎。其實宣傳並沒有像我們想像中成功。當時我們對之前在澳洲和紐西蘭的成功感到非常有自信。於是那年是教導我們保持耐心的重要性，還有在你很大膽地立下自大的目標前，真的要了解當地市場。 但我真要很開心地說，2010年時，小鬍子十一月變成一項真正的全球運動。就全世界募款宣傳而言，加拿大打敗強敵拔得頭籌。去年我們有了45萬名鬍哥散布全球，總共募得七千七百萬元。(掌聲)這使得小鬍子十一月成為當今全世界上前列腺癌研究的最大出資人和支持組織。這真的是很了不起的成就，尤其當你想到我們留小鬍子時。（笑聲） 對我們而言，我們已經重新定義慈善活動。我們的絲帶是條帶毛的絲帶。（笑聲）我們的大使是鬍哥和鬍姊們，我認為他們是我們成功的十分重要因素。我們將品牌和宣傳交給他們。我們讓他們擁抱它，且用他們自己的方式詮釋它。 現在我住在洛杉磯，因為美國的前列腺癌基金會總部在此，因為這裡有這麼多名人，我總是被這邊的媒體問到，「你的名人形象大使是誰？」我回答：「去年我們很幸運地有了45萬位名人形象大使。」他們回答：「什麼，這是什麼意思？」這就是每個人，每位參與小鬍子11月的鬍哥鬍姊們都是我們的名人形象大使，這對我們的成功是如此重要且基本的。 現在我要跟你們分享小鬍子11月最令我感動的時刻，就是去年11月在多倫多這裡發生的，當時宣傳快要結束了。我和一個團隊在外面，那是11月底。我們做了很成功的宣傳，老實說，我們那晚也喝了不少酒，但我說：「你知道嗎，我想我們要再去一個酒吧。」（笑聲）所以我們擠進一台計程車，這是我們的計程車司機，我當時坐在後座，他轉身過來說：「你們要去哪裡？」我說：「先等一下，這鬍子真是太驚人了。」(笑聲)他說：「我是為了小鬍子11月留的。」我接著說：「我也是。」我還說：「告訴我你的小鬍子11月故事。」他說：「聽著，我知道這跟男人的健康和前列腺癌症有關，但這是為了乳癌。」我說：「好，聽起來很有趣。」他接著說：「去年，我媽媽因為乳癌在斯里蘭卡過逝，因為我們無法為她提供妥善的醫療治療，這鬍子是我用來紀念我媽的。」於是我們全都在後座哽咽，我沒有跟他說我是誰，因為我想這不是很妥當，我只是跟他握手，我說：「非常謝謝你。你媽媽一定會以你為榮。」從那一刻開始，我明瞭小鬍子十一月代表的比小鬍子或著開個玩笑多很多，這是每個人來到這個平台，用他們自己的方式擁抱它，且讓它變成他們的生命中重要的事。 現在在小鬍子十一月，我們將重心放在三個區塊，希望能真正影響人們：提升警覺和教育，支持倖存者計畫，還有研究。很自然地我們總是把重心放在我們募得多少款項，因為這是非常實際的結果，但對我而言，提升警覺和教育比我們的募款還重要，因為我知道今天這正在改變和拯救生命，最好的例子應該是今年年初我在德州奧斯丁南方音樂節遇到的一位年輕男士。他來到我面前說：「謝謝你創立小鬍子十一月。」我說：「謝謝你參與小鬍子十一月。」於是我看著他，我心想：「我非常確定你沒辦法留小鬍子。」（笑聲）我說：「跟我說你的小鬍子十一月故事吧？」他說：「我留了最糟的小鬍子。」（笑聲）「但當我回家吃感恩節晚餐時，很快地餐桌上的話題轉移到我到底發生了什麼事。」（笑聲）「於是我告訴他們有關小鬍子十一月的事，之後我爸走到我面前，當我26歲時生平第一次我和我爸一對一談到男性的健康。我和他講到前列腺癌，我才知道我祖父罹患前列腺癌，所以我能夠跟我爸說他有兩倍的會罹患的機率，當時他並不知道，而且他也沒有做過檢查。」於是現在他去作前列腺癌檢查。 這些對話讓男人們參與其中，不論是什麼年紀，都是相當重要的，對我而言是比我們募得款項更為重要的事。 再來講到我們募得的款項和研究，還有我們如何重新定義研究。現在我們在13個國家為前列腺癌募款。就算沒到上千個，我們至少也真的也為上百個全球的機構和研究單位提供資金，當我們最近再仔細分析，我們才明白這些機構內缺乏互相合作，更不用說是全國地，全球地合作，而且這不是只發生在前列腺癌，而是全世界的癌症研究都如此。於是我們決定我們要重新定義慈善。我們需要重新定義這些人合作的方式。我們要怎麼做才好？於是我們做的是創造一份全球行動計畫，我們提出在每個國家募得款項的百分之十作為全球資金，而且我們請世界上最好的前列腺癌專家管理這筆資金，每年他們聚會，找出需優先處理的事項，像是去年就是設計更好的檢驗方法。於是他們認為這是首要之務，接著現在他們招募了來自全球研究於此主題的300位研究員，一定要是相同的主題。現在我們已經提供他們五百或六百萬美元，要他們合作且組織起來，這在癌症世界可是非常獨特的事情，我們也知道，透過合作，可以加速得到結果。這就是我們如何重新定義研究的世界。 於是我的小鬍子十一月旅程，一開始是個相當有創意的想法，帶有熱情，堅持和很多耐心，四個好友，四把小鬍子，可以帶給充滿在一個房間內的人們啟示，而充滿在這個房間內的人們可以持續影響一個城市，那城市就是墨爾本，我的家鄉。那城市可以持續去影響一個州，那個州可以持續影響一個國家，更甚者，你可以創造一個全球運動，而它正在為男人健康改頭換面。 我的名字是 Adam Garone ，這是我的故事。謝謝。（掌聲）"
