Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_driver_my_journey_from_marine_to_actor	"I was a Marine with 1/1 Weapons Company, 81's platoon, out in Camp Pendleton, California. Oorah! Audience: Oorah! (Laughter) I joined a few months after September 11, feeling like I think most people in the country did at the time, filled with a sense of patriotism and retribution and the desire to do something — that, coupled with that fact that I wasn't doing anything. I was 17, just graduated from high school that past summer, living in the back room of my parents' house paying rent, in the small town I was raised in in Northern Indiana, called Mishawaka. I can spell that later for people who are interested — (Laughter) Mishawaka is many good things but cultural hub of the world it is not, so my only exposure to theater and film was limited to the plays I did in high school and Blockbuster Video, may she rest in peace. (Laughter) I was serious enough about acting that I auditioned for Juilliard when I was a senior in high school, didn't get in, determined college wasn't for me and applied nowhere else, which was a genius move. I also did that Hail Mary LA acting odyssey that I always heard stories about, of actors moving to LA with, like, seven dollars and finding work and successful careers. I got as far as Amarillo, Texas, before my car broke down. I spent all my money repairing it, finally made it to Santa Monica — not even LA — stayed for 48 hours wandering the beach, basically, got in my car, drove home, thus ending my acting career, so — (Laughter) Seventeen, Mishawaka ... parents' house, paying rent, selling vacuums ... telemarketing, cutting grass at the local 4-H fairgrounds. This was my world going into September, 2001. So after the 11th, and feeling an overwhelming sense of duty, and just being pissed off in general — at myself, my parents, the government; not having confidence, not having a respectable job, my shitty mini-fridge that I just drove to California and back — I joined the Marine Corps and loved it. I loved being a Marine. It's one of the things I'm most proud of having done in my life. Firing weapons was cool, driving and detonating expensive things was great. But I found I loved the Marine Corps the most for the thing I was looking for the least when I joined, which was the people: these weird dudes — a motley crew of characters from a cross section of the United States — that on the surface I had nothing in common with. And over time, all the political and personal bravado that led me to the military dissolved, and for me, the Marine Corps became synonymous with my friends. And then, a few years into my service and months away from deploying to Iraq, I dislocated my sternum in a mountain-biking accident, and had to be medically separated. Those never in the military may find this hard to understand, but being told I wasn't getting deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan was very devastating for me. I have a very clear image of leaving the base hospital on a stretcher and my entire platoon is waiting outside to see if I was OK. And then, suddenly, I was a civilian again. I knew I wanted to give acting another shot, because — again, this is me — I thought all civilian problems are small compared to the military. I mean, what can you really bitch about now, you know? ""It's hot. Someone should turn on the air conditioner."" ""This coffee line is too long."" I was a Marine, I knew how to survive. I'd go to New York and become an actor. If things didn't work out, I'd live in Central Park and dumpster-dive behind Panera Bread. (Laughter) I re-auditioned for Juilliard and this time I was lucky, I got in. But I was surprised by how complex the transition was from military to civilian. And I was relatively healthy; I can't imagine going through that process on top of a mental or physical injury. But regardless, it was difficult. In part, because I was in acting school — I couldn't justify going to voice and speech class, throwing imaginary balls of energy at the back of the room, doing acting exercises where I gave birth to myself — (Laughter) while my friends were serving without me overseas. But also, because I didn't know how to apply the things I learned in the military to a civilian context. I mean that both practically and emotionally. Practically, I had to get a job. And I was an Infantry Marine, where you're shooting machine guns and firing mortars. There's not a lot of places you can put those skills in the civilian world. (Laughter) Emotionally, I struggled to find meaning. In the military, everything has meaning. Everything you do is either steeped in tradition or has a practical purpose. You can't smoke in the field because you don't want to give away your position. You don't touch your face — you have to maintain a personal level of health and hygiene. You face this way when ""Colors"" plays, out of respect for people who went before you. Walk this way, talk this way because of this. Your uniform is maintained to the inch. How diligently you followed those rules spoke volumes about the kind of Marine you were. Your rank said something about your history and the respect you had earned. In the civilian world there's no rank. Here you're just another body, and I felt like I constantly had to prove my worth all over again. And the respect civilians were giving me while I was in uniform didn't exist when I was out of it. There didn't seem to be a ... a sense of community, whereas in the military, I felt this sense of community. How often in the civilian world are you put in a life-or-death situation with your closest friends and they constantly demonstrate that they're not going to abandon you? And meanwhile, at acting school ... (Laughter) I was really, for the first time, discovering playwrights and characters and plays that had nothing to do with the military, but were somehow describing my military experience in a way that before to me was indescribable. And I felt myself becoming less aggressive as I was able to put words to feelings for the first time and realizing what a valuable tool that was. And when I was reflecting on my time in the military, I wasn't first thinking on the stereotypical drills and discipline and pain of it; but rather, the small, intimate human moments, moments of great feeling: friends going AWOL because they missed their families, friends getting divorced, grieving together, celebrating together, all within the backdrop of the military. I saw my friends battling these circumstances, and I watched the anxiety it produced in them and me, not being able to express our feelings about it. The military and theater communities are actually very similar. You have a group of people trying to accomplish a mission greater than themselves; it's not about you. You have a role, you have to know your role within that team. Every team has a leader or director; sometimes they're smart, sometimes they're not. You're forced to be intimate with complete strangers in a short amount of time; the self-discipline, the self-maintenance. I thought, how great would it be to create a space that combined these two seemingly dissimilar communities, that brought entertainment to a group of people that, considering their occupation, could handle something a bit more thought-provoking than the typical mandatory-fun events that I remember being ""volun-told"" to go to in the military — (Laughter) all well-intended but slightly offensive events, like ""Win a Date with a San Diego Chargers Cheerleader,"" where you answer a question about pop culture, and if you get it right you win a date, which was a chaperoned walk around the parade deck with this already married, pregnant cheerleader — (Laughter) Nothing against cheerleaders, I love cheerleaders. The point is more, how great would it be to have theater presented through characters that were accessible without being condescending. So we started this nonprofit called Arts in the Armed Forces, where we tried to do that, tried to join these two seemingly dissimilar communities. We pick a play or select monologues from contemporary American plays that are diverse in age and race like a military audience is, grab a group of incredible theater-trained actors, arm them with incredible material, keep production value as minimal as possible — no sets, no costumes, no lights, just reading it — to throw all the emphasis on the language and to show that theater can be created at any setting. It's a powerful thing, getting in a room with complete strangers and reminding ourselves of our humanity, and that self-expression is just as valuable a tool as a rifle on your shoulder. And for an organization like the military, that prides itself on having acronyms for acronyms, you can get lost in the sauce when it comes to explaining a collective experience. And I can think of no better community to arm with a new means of self-expression than those protecting our country. We've gone all over the United States and the world, from Walter Reed in Bethesda, Maryland, to Camp Pendleton, to Camp Arifjan in Kuwait, to USAG Bavaria, on- and off-Broadway theaters in New York. And for the performing artists we bring, it's a window into a culture they otherwise would not have had exposure to. And for the military, it's the exact same. And in doing this for the past six years, I'm always reminded that acting is many things. It's a craft, it's a political act, it's a business, it's — whatever adjective is most applicable to you. But it's also a service. I didn't get to finish mine, so whenever I get to be of service to this ultimate service industry, the military, for me, again — there's not many things better than that. Thank you. (Applause) We're going to be doing a piece from Marco Ramirez, called ""I am not Batman."" An incredible actor and good friend of mine, Jesse Perez, is going to be reading, and Matt Johnson, who I just met a couple hours ago. They're doing it together for the first time, so we'll see how it goes. Jesse Perez and Matt Johnson. (Applause) Jesse Perez: It's the middle of the night and the sky is glowing like mad, radioactive red. And if you squint, you can maybe see the moon through a thick layer of cigarette smoke and airplane exhaust that covers the whole city, like a mosquito net that won't let the angels in. (Drum beat) And if you look up high enough, you can see me standing on the edge of an 87-story building. And up there, a place for gargoyles and broken clock towers that have stayed still and dead for maybe like 100 years, up there is me. (Beat) And I'm frickin' Batman. (Beat) And I gots Batmobiles and batarangs and frickin' bat caves, like, for real. And all it takes is a broom closet or a back room or a fire escape, and Danny's hand-me-down jeans are gone. And my navy blue polo shirt, the one that looks kinda good on me but has that hole on it near the butt from when it got snagged on the chain-link fence behind Arturo's but it isn't even a big deal because I tuck that part in and it's, like, all good. That blue polo shirt — it's gone, too! And I get like, like ... transformational. (Beat) And nobody pulls out a belt and whips Batman for talkin' back. (Beat) Or for not talkin' back. And nobody calls Batman simple or stupid or skinny. And nobody fires Batman's brother from the Eastern Taxi Company 'cause they was making cutbacks, neither. 'Cause they got nothing but respect. And not like afraid-respect, just, like, respect-respect. (Laughter) 'Cause nobody's afraid of you. 'Cause Batman doesn't mean nobody no harm. (Beat) Ever. (Double beat) 'Cause all Batman really wants to do is save people and maybe pay abuela's bills one day and die happy. And maybe get, like, mad-famous for real. (Laughter) Oh — and kill the Joker. (Drum roll) Tonight, like most nights, I'm all alone. And I'm watchin' and I'm waitin' like a eagle or like a — no, yeah, like a eagle. (Laughter) And my cape is flapping in the wind cause it's frickin' long and my pointy ears are on, and that mask that covers like half my face is on, too, and I got, like, bulletproof stuff all in my chest so no one can hurt me. And nobody — nobody! — is gonna come between Batman ... and justice. (Drums) (Laughter) From where I am, I can hear everything. (Silence) Somewhere in the city, there's a old lady picking Styrofoam leftovers up out of a trash can and she's putting a piece of sesame chicken someone spit out into her own mouth. And somewhere there's a doctor with a wack haircut in a black lab coat trying to find a cure for the diseases that are gonna make us all extinct for real one day. And somewhere there's a man, a man in a janitor's uniform, stumbling home drunk and dizzy after spending half his paycheck on 40-ounce bottles of twist-off beer, and the other half on a four-hour visit to some lady's house on a street where the lights have all been shot out by people who'd rather do what they do in this city in the dark. And half a block away from janitor man, there's a group of good-for-nothings who don't know no better, waiting for janitor man with rusted bicycle chains and imitation Louisville Sluggers, and if they don't find a cent on him, which they won't, they'll just pound at him till the muscles in their arms start burning, till there's no more teeth to crack out. But they don't count on me. They don't count on no Dark Knight, with a stomach full of grocery-store brand macaroni and cheese and cut-up Vienna sausages. (Laughter) 'Cause they'd rather believe I don't exist. And from 87 stories up, I can hear one of the good-for-nothings say, ""Gimme the cash!"" — real fast like that, just, ""Gimme me the fuckin' cash!"" And I see janitor man mumble something in drunk language and turn pale, and from 87 stories up, I can hear his stomach trying to hurl its way out his Dickies. So I swoop down, like, mad-fast and I'm like darkness, I'm like, ""Swoosh!"" And I throw a batarang at the one naked lightbulb. (Cymbal) And they're all like, ""Whoa, muthafucker! Who just turned out the lights?"" (Laughter) ""What's that over there?"" ""What?"" ""Gimme me what you got, old man!"" ""Did anybody hear that?"" ""Hear what? There ain't nothing. No, really — there ain't no bat!"" But then ... one out of the three good-for-nothings gets it to the head — pow! And number two swings blindly into the dark cape before him, but before his fist hits anything, I grab a trash can lid and — right in the gut! And number one comes back with the jump kick, but I know judo karate, too, so I'm like — (Drums) Twice! (Drums) (Laughter) (Drums) But before I can do any more damage, suddenly we all hear a ""click-click."" And suddenly everything gets quiet. And the one good-for-nothing left standing grips a handgun and aims it straight up, like he's holding Jesus hostage, like he's threatening maybe to blow a hole in the moon. And the good-for-nothing who got it to the head, who tried to jump-kick me, and the other good-for-nothing who got it in the gut, is both scrambling back away from the dark figure before 'em. And the drunk man, the janitor man, is huddled in a corner, praying to Saint Anthony 'cause that's the only one he could remember. (Double beat) And there's me: eyes glowing white, cape blowing softly in the wind. (Beat) Bulletproof chest heaving, my heart beating right through it in a Morse code for: ""Fuck with me just once come on just try."" And the one good-for-nothing left standing, the one with the handgun — yeah, he laughs. And he lowers his arm. And he points it at me and gives the moon a break. And he aims it right between my pointy ears, like goal posts and he's special teams. And janitor man is still calling Saint Anthony, but he ain't pickin' up. And for a second, it seems like ... maybe I'm gonna lose. Nah! (Drums) Shoot! Shoot! Fwa-ka-ka! ""Don't kill me, man!"" Snap! Wrist crack! Neck! Slash! Skin meets acid: ""Ahhhhhhh!"" And he's on the floor and I'm standing over him and I got the gun in my hands now and I hate guns, I hate holding 'em 'cause I'm Batman. And, asterisk: Batman don't like guns 'cause his parents got iced by guns a long time ago. But for just a second, my eyes glow white, and I hold this thing for I could speak to the good-for-nothing in a language he maybe understands. Click-click! (Beat) And the good-for-nothings become good-for-disappearing into whatever toxic waste, chemical sludge shithole they crawled out of. And it's just me and janitor man. And I pick him up, and I wipe sweat and cheap perfume off his forehead. And he begs me not to hurt him and I grab him tight by his janitor-man shirt collar, and I pull him to my face and he's taller than me but the cape helps, so he listens when I look him straight in the eyes. And I say two words to him: ""Go home."" And he does, checking behind his shoulder every 10 feet. And I swoosh from building to building on his way there 'cause I know where he lives. And I watch his hands tremble as he pulls out his key chain and opens the door to his building. And I'm back in bed before he even walks in through the front door. And I hear him turn on the faucet and pour himself a glass of warm tap water. And he puts the glass back in the sink. And I hear his footsteps. And they get slower as they get to my room. And he creaks my door open, like, mad-slow. And he takes a step in, which he never does. (Beat) And he's staring off into nowhere, his face, the color of sidewalks in summer. And I act like I'm just waking up and I say, ""Ah, what's up, Pop?"" And janitor man says nothing to me. But I see in the dark, I see his arms go limp and his head turns back, like, towards me. And he lifts it for I can see his face, for I could see his eyes. And his cheeks is drippin', but not with sweat. And he just stands there breathing, like he remembers my eyes glowing white, like he remembers my bulletproof chest, like he remembers he's my pop. And for a long time I don't say nothin'. And he turns around, hand on the doorknob. And he ain't looking my way, but I hear him mumble two words to me: ""I'm sorry."" And I lean over, and I open my window just a crack. If you look up high enough, you could see me. And from where I am — (Cymbals) I could hear everything. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我曾是海軍陸戰隊員1/1式武器連，81排，Pendieton營地，加利福尼亞。衝鋒！ （觀眾：衝鋒！） （笑聲） 我在911之後的幾個月入伍，我感覺，我想和那時大部份國人的感受一樣，充滿了愛國、報仇之情以及想做些甚麼的願望－－而實際狀況是我沒做任何事。那時我17歲，就在911前的那個夏天高中畢業，住在我的故鄉，北印地安娜州的一個小鎮上，住在我父母的房子的裡間，並支付房租。我的故鄉叫做 Mishawaka。過一會兒我可以把那名字拼寫一下，如果誰感興趣的話－－ （笑聲） Mishawaka 很不錯但它不是世界文化中心。所以我接觸到的戲劇和電影僅限於在中學里參演的話劇和Blockbuster的視頻，願她安息。 （笑聲） 我對表演很認真。高中最後一年我曾到Juilliard（音樂學院）面試。沒被錄取。看起來大學不適合我，因此沒再申請。那真是個英明決定。我也曾在洛杉磯 Hail Mary 表演奧德賽。我常聽到那樣的故事，一個藝人帶著，比如說，7美圓到洛杉磯，找到工作並擁有美好的前途。我到了德克薩斯的阿馬里諾，然後車子壞了。我花光了身上所有的錢修好了它，最終把它開到了聖莫尼卡－－還不是洛杉磯－－在海邊遊蕩了差不多48小時，基本上就是回到車里，上路回家。就這樣結束了我的演藝生涯，所以， （笑聲） 17歲，Mishawaka...住爸媽的房子，付租金，賣吸塵器...電話推銷，為本地4H的露天集市修剪草坪。這就是我的世界，然後到了2001年的九月。 所以，11日以後，我感到一種可以壓倒一切的責任感，周圍的一切都開始變得令人厭煩－－包括我自己、我的父母、政府，沒有自信，也沒有體面的工作，還有那輛被我開到加州又開回來的小破車－－我加入了海軍陸戰，愛上了它。我愛當海軍陸戰隊員。這是我生命中最自豪的一件事。開槍很酷，駕駛和爆破價格昂貴的東西很棒。但我發現海軍陸戰隊最讓我喜歡的是我在加入它時最沒想到的，那就是人。這些奇怪的傢伙－－一群穿迷彩服的角色，來自美國各地－－表面上看我們完全不一樣。時間久了，所有把我推向軍伍的那些對政治和個人的虛張聲勢已漸漸消失，對我來說，海軍陸戰隊員變成了朋友的同義詞。 服役幾年後，派到伊拉克的幾個月前，一次山地自行車事故，我胸骨錯位，不得不接受（胸骨）分離手術。沒服過兵役的人可能難以理解，當被告知不能再被派往伊拉克或阿富汗我深受打擊。我清楚地記得躺在擔架上離開基地醫院的畫面全排的士兵都在外面等著看我是否平安。然後，我突然又變成了平民百姓。 我知道我想再嘗試表演，因為－－還是這樣，這就是我－－我認為所有平民的問題都沒有軍隊問題重要。我意思是，你現在真的可以抱怨甚麼，你知道嗎？“天氣好熱。應該有人把冷氣打開。”“這個買咖啡的隊太長了。”我是一個海軍陸戰隊員，我知道如何活下去。我應該去紐約當演員。如果不行，我就得住在中央公園，在麵包連鎖咖啡店後面翻垃圾。（笑聲） 我又去Juilliard考試，而這一次我很幸運， 我被錄取了。但是，我很驚訝這個轉變是如此複雜，從軍人到平民百姓。我相對來說很健康，但我不能想像一路走來我的身心遭到的巨大傷害。不管怎樣，那就是很難。在某種程度上說，因為我在表演學校－－我感覺去上聲樂課或是上演講課，或是在教室後面投擲想像中的能量球，或是練習表演我怎麼生出我自己，都顯得那麼“不正當” —（笑聲） 因為我的朋友們在海外服兵役，而我沒和他們在一起。 不盡如此，我也不知道如何利用軍隊學到的東西，在平民的情景里使用。我是說在現實和情感兩方面。現實地說，我需要一份工作。而我是一名陸戰隊士兵，在軍隊里開機槍、開迫擊炮。平民世界里沒有太多地方讓你使用這些技術。（笑聲） 情感上，我糾結於尋找意義。 軍隊里，每一件事都有意義。你做的每一件事既要沿襲傳統又要具有現實意義。你不能在陣地吸煙因為你不想暴露你的位置。你不摸自己的臉－－你必須保持基本的個人健康和衛生。當你的臉被這樣塗上迷彩，那是對走在你前面的人的尊重。這樣走路，這樣講話，都是因為這個。你的軍服的每一寸都要維護好。你得要多勤奮才能遵守那些條例，這些關於陸戰隊條例的書有好幾卷。你的軍銜顯示了你的歷史以及你獲得的尊敬。平民的世界里沒有軍銜。 這裡你只是一個別人，我感覺必須重新證明我的價值。當我穿著制服時平民給與我的尊重在我脫掉軍服時就不存在了。他們看起來沒有一種群體感。但在軍隊里，我有這種群體感。有多少次在平民的世界里，你會和你最好的朋友被置於生死之境，而他們不斷地向你證明不會拋棄你？而同時，在表演學校（笑聲） 我真的，第一次， 發現劇作家和演員和戲劇與軍隊沒有任何關係，卻描述了我的軍旅經歷，描述了以前的我所無法描述的。我感到自己變得沒那麼好鬥了。我第一次可以把語言轉變成感情，並且認識到它是一個多麼有價值的工具。當我可以反觀我的軍旅時光 我第一次想到不是典型的軍事訓練和紀律，以及它們帶來的痛苦。而是更有一些小的，親密的，人性的瞬間，感覺非常棒的瞬間。朋友們因為思念家庭而擅離職守，朋友離婚了，一起悲傷，一起慶祝，一切都是以軍隊為背景。我看到我的朋友們在這樣的情況下戰鬥焦慮在我和他們中間產生，但表達不出我們對它的感覺。軍隊和劇院的群體其實非常像。 一群人努力要完成一個目標而且是比他們自身更偉大的目標；故事主角不是你你有一個角色，你必須知道你在團隊里的角色。每一個團隊都有一個領導著或者導演；有時候他們很聰明，有時候不。你要強迫自己和完全陌生的人親近，在很短的時間里。自我約束，自我維護。我想，如果能創建一個空間有多棒，由這兩個看起來不一樣的群體組成。它會給一群人帶來愉樂。考慮到人們的職業，它還可以讓人發想出更引人入勝，而不是典型的""強制性樂趣""節目。我還記得那個 “強迫入伍”－－（笑聲） 都是本意很好但有些唐突的節目。 比如 “赢取一日約會，和聖地亞哥閃電隊啦啦隊長”。回答一個關於流行文化的問題，如果你答對了就赢得一個約會，就是－－在別人的監護下在遊行廣場散一個步，和這位已經婚育的啦啦隊長－（笑聲） 我並不是針對啦啦隊長，我愛她們。 重點是，有個劇場出現該有多好，透過可使用的角色可以拉近彼此距離而不覺得做作。所以我們發起了這個非盈利組織叫做“軍營中的藝術”。我們努力，努力要把這兩個完全不一樣的群體融合起来。我們從美國當代戲劇中挑一齣戲或選一些獨白，角色包含不同的年齡和種族，和軍隊里的聽眾（狀況）一樣。邀來一群出色的訓練有素的戲劇演員，用很棒的劇本裝備他們，以最小的製作成本－－沒有佈景、服裝、燈光，只是朗讀它－－把所有的重點都放在語言上。實際上，任何情境都可以創造出戲劇效果。這是件非常能感染人的事情。 進入一間全是陌生人的房間，用我們的人性提醒自己。而自我表達正是一個非常有用的工具，就像肩膀上的來福槍。像軍隊這樣的機構，因擁有很多“簡稱的簡稱”而自傲。你都不知道該選甚麼醬汁當它用來詮釋一種集體意識的時候。我像再也找不出一個更好的團體裝備了這麼多自我表達的新方式，多於保衛國家的武器。我們的足跡遍佈美國和世界， 從Bethesda的Walter Reed，Maryland,到 Pendletion 營地，到 Kuwait 的 Arifjan 營地到 Bavaria 的 USAG。出入紐約百老滙劇場。對於那些跟隨我們的表演藝術家，（表演）就是一種文化的窗口除此以外他們沒有機會打開。對於軍隊來說，也完全一樣。在做這件事的六年里， 我時常提醒自己表演意味著很多事情。它是一個作品，是一個政治行動，是一種生意，它是－－不論你最想用的形容是甚麼但它同時也是一種侍奉。我尚未完成我的。所以每當我服務於這個最高級的服務行業，軍隊，對於我來說，再一次－－沒有甚麼能比這個更好了。謝謝。 （掌聲） 我們將演出Marco Ramirez種的一段， 劇名是 “我不是蝙蝠俠”。一個出色的演員，也是我的好朋友，Jesse Perez,將要朗讀。Matt Johnson, 我們剛剛認識了幾小時。他們真的是第一次合作表演。所以，我們拭目以待。有請 Jesse Perez 和 Matt Johnson。 （掌聲） （鼓聲）（Jesse Perez）午夜， 天空里射出瘋狂的紅色光輝。如果你眯起眼，也許可以看到月亮。穿過厚厚一層香煙的迷霧和飛機的排煙，它覆蓋了整個城市，像一群蚊子不會讓天使加入。（鼓聲） 如果你看得足夠高， 你可以看到我，站在一棟87層高的大樓樓頂邊上。這上面，是一個承溜口和一些殘破的鐘塔。它們死了，躺在這裡也許有100年了。在它們之上，就是我。（鼓聲） 我就是 Frichkin‘ Batman。 （鼓聲） 我有蝙蝠戰車和蝙蝠鏢， 還有蝙蝠洞穴，就像，真的一樣。就是還需要一個清掃工具間或者一個儲藏室，或太平梯。Danny的舊牛仔褲不見了。（鼓聲）還有我的海軍藍polo衫，我穿那件挺好看但是在靠近臀部的地方有個洞，那是被Arturo後面的鐵鏈鉤破的。不過也不是甚麼大事因為我把它塞進褲腰里它就看起來很好了。（鼓聲）那件藍色polo衫－－也不見了。而我就像，就像，變型了。（鼓聲） 沒有人因為蝙蝠俠說要回來而抽出腰帶打他。 （鼓聲） 或著因為沒說回來而打他。 也沒有人說蝙蝠俠簡單、 傻、或瘦得皮包骨。也沒有人向蝙蝠俠的兄弟開槍，從東方出租車公司。因為他們正在縮減開支。因為他們除了尊重已一無所有。不是那種因害怕而生的尊重。而是，就像，因尊重而生的尊重。（笑聲） 因為沒有人怕你。 因為蝙蝠俠不是意味著無足輕重。（鼓聲） 永遠。（雙擊鼓聲） 因為蝙蝠俠真正想做的事是拯救人類。 也許有一天會為外婆付賬單。然後幸福地死去，也許會，就像，真的發那個著名的狂。（笑聲） 噢－順便把講笑話的人殺了。 （鼓聲） 今晚，就像很多的夜晚，我孤人一身。 我看著，等著，就象一隻鷹，或者象不，嗯，就象一隻鷹。（笑聲） 我的披風在風中飄擺因為它和Frickin的一樣長。 還有我的尖耳朵豎起，還有我的面具也同樣遮住我的半個臉，我穿的是胸前有防彈材料的衣服，所以沒人可以傷害我，而且沒人－沒人可以容身在蝙蝠俠和正義之間。（鼓聲） 從我來的地方， 我可以聽到所有事情。（安靜） 在城市的某個地方， 有一位老婦人正從垃圾筒里拾廢棄的泡沫塑膠。她拾起一塊別人吐掉的胡麻雞，放到自己的嘴里。那里還有個醫生，剪了个怪髮型，穿著實驗室的黑大褂，努力想找到一個治癒疾病的療法。那是真的會讓我們人類滅絕的病，總有一天。而在那裡有個男人穿著看門人的制服。喝醉了，跌跌撞撞、暈頭轉向地回家。用他一半的薪水買了40盎司一瓶的啤酒，然後用另一半在某個女人的房間里尋歡作樂了四小時。當街上的燈都亮了，人們寧願在城市的黑影里做他們的事。距看門人半個街區的地方，有一群不知好歹的無賴，拿著生鏽的單車鍊條等著清潔工，還摹仿著Louisville Sluggers。如果在守門人身上找不到一分錢，－－應該不會，他們會揍他直到手臂的肌肉酸痛，直到再沒有牙齒可以被打落。但是他們沒有想到我， 他們不層想到黑夜騎士。他胃里塞滿了食品店自製的通心粉和奶酪、切好的維也納香腸。（笑聲） 因為他們寧願相信我並不存在。 在87層上，我可以聽到一個傢伙說， “給我錢。”－－就這麼簡單－－只是，“把他媽的錢給我！“而我看到看門人醉醺醺地咕嚕著甚麼，臉色變白。在87層之上，我能聽到他肚子的東西往外翻湧，到褲子上。所以我俯衝下來，以瘋狂的速度， 我就像黑暗，我象，旋風。我把一枚蝙蝠標擲向那只光禿禿的燈泡。（鐃鈸） 他們全都喊著，”哇，他媽的！ 誰把燈關了？“（笑聲） ”那是甚麼？甚麼？ 把你的東西給我，老傢伙！“ ”你們誰聽到了？“ ”聽到甚麼？甚麼也沒有。沒有，真的，沒有蝙蝠！“但是，接著， 三個無賴中的一個頭上挨了一記－嘭！然後第二個傢伙在我的黑斗篷里胡亂地揮拳。 但是在他打到我之前我抓起一個垃圾筒蓋打中他的肚子。第一個傢伙向我飛踹一腳，不過我也會空手道，所以我這樣。（鼓聲） 再一次。 （鼓聲） （笑聲） （鼓聲） 但是在多打幾拳之前 我們突然聽到 “喀－哩－喀－哩”。然後突然間一切都安靜了。一個站在左邊的傢伙拿著一隻手槍指向天空，就像他把耶穌當人質，就像他的威脅可以在月亮上炸一個洞。然後那個被我打到頭的傢伙想飛踢我的那個，另一個被我打中肚子的傢伙，都在爬離他們面前的黑斗篷。那個看門人，喝醉的看門人，蜷縮在角落里向聖安東尼祈禱，因為這是他唯一能記得的人了。（雙擊鼓聲） 而那就是我：眼睛射出白光，斗篷在風中輕輕地飄著。（鼓聲） 防彈衣下胸膛起伏，心臟跳出一串摩斯密碼：”來打死我啊，就一次，來吧，就試一次。“站在左邊的傢伙 拿手槍的那個，是啊，他笑了。放低他的手臂把槍指向我。放過了那個月亮，瞄準我兩個尖耳朵中間，就像我的兩個耳朵是球門柱而他是別動隊。看門人還在呼喚著聖安東尼。但是他沒有出現。有一秒鐘看著好象也許我要輸，不可能！ （鼓聲） 射擊！射擊！哇－卡－卡 ”別殺我，老大！“ 掰！斷腕！脖子！砍！ 皮膚遇到強酸”啊－－！“ 他倒在地上， 我站在他身上，現在槍在我手上。我痛恨槍，我痛恨拿著槍因為我是蝙蝠俠。註釋：蝙蝠俠不喜歡槍因為他的父母許多年前被槍嚇傻。但是有一秒的時間，我的眼睛發出白光我拿著這東西因為我就能和那些傢伙講話用他們也許能懂的語言喀哩－喀哩（鼓聲） 然後那些個傢伙就消失了， 回到他們爬出來的那個毒氣沖天、黏糊糊的屎坑。只剩下我和看門人。我把他拽起來，擦掉他頭上的汗水和廉價的香水。他求我不要傷害他，我抓緊他看門人T恤的領子，把他拉到面前。他比我高但是斗篷給我加了分，所以當我直視他的眼睛，他乖乖地聽著。我對他說了兩個字：“回家。”然後他回家了， 十步一回頭地走了。我沿著他的路在樓宇之間穿梭，因為我知道他住在哪裡。我看到他用顫抖的雙手掏出鑰匙，打開樓門。我回到床上在他走進大門之前我聽到他打開水龍頭 給自己接了一杯熱水，然後把杯子放回洗碗池。我聽到他的腳步在進入我房間的時候慢下來。他咯吱一聲推開我的房門，就像，慢動作。他邁進一隻腳，他從來沒有這樣做過。（鼓聲） 他盯著不知道甚麼地方。他的臉，那顏色就像夏天里的行人道。我裝作剛剛醒來，問道”啊，你怎樣，老爸？“看門人沒有跟我說一個字。但是我在黑暗中看見看見他的手臂變得無力，他的頭轉過去，好像，轉向我他抬著頭我能看到他的臉。我能看到他的眼睛。他的臉頰上有眼淚流下，但沒有汗，他站在那裡喘著氣。好像他回憶起我的眼睛發著白光，好像他記起我的防彈衣，好像他想起他是我老爸，好長一會兒我沒有講話。他轉身，手放在門把手上，他沒有看我這邊。但是我聽到他向我嘟囔出幾個字，“對不起。”我探身猛地推開我的窗 如果你看得夠高你可以看到我從我所在的地方，（鐃鈸） 我可以聽到每一件事。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
