Talk	en	zh-tw
al_gore_the_case_for_optimism_on_climate_change	"I was excited to be a part of the ""Dream"" theme, and then I found out I'm leading off the ""Nightmare?"" section of it. (Laughter) And certainly there are things about the climate crisis that qualify. And I have some bad news, but I have a lot more good news. I'm going to propose three questions and the answer to the first one necessarily involves a little bad news. But — hang on, because the answers to the second and third questions really are very positive. So the first question is, ""Do we really have to change?"" And of course, the Apollo Mission, among other things changed the environmental movement, really launched the modern environmental movement. 18 months after this Earthrise picture was first seen on earth, the first Earth Day was organized. And we learned a lot about ourselves looking back at our planet from space. And one of the things that we learned confirmed what the scientists have long told us. One of the most essential facts about the climate crisis has to do with the sky. As this picture illustrates, the sky is not the vast and limitless expanse that appears when we look up from the ground. It is a very thin shell of atmosphere surrounding the planet. That right now is the open sewer for our industrial civilization as it's currently organized. We are spewing 110 million tons of heat-trapping global warming pollution into it every 24 hours, free of charge, go ahead. And there are many sources of the greenhouse gases, I'm certainly not going to go through them all. I'm going to focus on the main one, but agriculture is involved, diet is involved, population is involved. Management of forests, transportation, the oceans, the melting of the permafrost. But I'm going to focus on the heart of the problem, which is the fact that we still rely on dirty, carbon-based fuels for 85 percent of all the energy that our world burns every year. And you can see from this image that after World War II, the emission rates started really accelerating. And the accumulated amount of man-made, global warming pollution that is up in the atmosphere now traps as much extra heat energy as would be released by 400,000 Hiroshima-class atomic bombs exploding every 24 hours, 365 days a year. Fact-checked over and over again, conservative, it's the truth. Now it's a big planet, but — (Explosion sound) that is a lot of energy, particularly when you multiply it 400,000 times per day. And all that extra heat energy is heating up the atmosphere, the whole earth system. Let's look at the atmosphere. This is a depiction of what we used to think of as the normal distribution of temperatures. The white represents normal temperature days; 1951-1980 are arbitrarily chosen. The blue are cooler than average days, the red are warmer than average days. But the entire curve has moved to the right in the 1980s. And you'll see in the lower right-hand corner the appearance of statistically significant numbers of extremely hot days. In the 90s, the curve shifted further. And in the last 10 years, you see the extremely hot days are now more numerous than the cooler than average days. In fact, they are 150 times more common on the surface of the earth than they were just 30 years ago. So we're having record-breaking temperatures. Fourteen of the 15 of the hottest years ever measured with instruments have been in this young century. The hottest of all was last year. Last month was the 371st month in a row warmer than the 20th-century average. And for the first time, not only the warmest January, but for the first time, it was more than two degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the average. These higher temperatures are having an effect on animals, plants, people, ecosystems. But on a global basis, 93 percent of all the extra heat energy is trapped in the oceans. And the scientists can measure the heat buildup much more precisely now at all depths: deep, mid-ocean, the first few hundred meters. And this, too, is accelerating. It goes back more than a century. And more than half of the increase has been in the last 19 years. This has consequences. The first order of consequence: the ocean-based storms get stronger. Super Typhoon Haiyan went over areas of the Pacific five and a half degrees Fahrenheit warmer than normal before it slammed into Tacloban, as the most destructive storm ever to make landfall. Pope Francis, who has made such a difference to this whole issue, visited Tacloban right after that. Superstorm Sandy went over areas of the Atlantic nine degrees warmer than normal before slamming into New York and New Jersey. The second order of consequences are affecting all of us right now. The warmer oceans are evaporating much more water vapor into the skies. Average humidity worldwide has gone up four percent. And it creates these atmospheric rivers. The Brazilian scientists call them ""flying rivers."" And they funnel all of that extra water vapor over the land where storm conditions trigger these massive record-breaking downpours. This is from Montana. Take a look at this storm last August. As it moves over Tucson, Arizona. It literally splashes off the city. These downpours are really unusual. Last July in Houston, Texas, it rained for two days, 162 billion gallons. That represents more than two days of the full flow of Niagara Falls in the middle of the city, which was, of course, paralyzed. These record downpours are creating historic floods and mudslides. This one is from Chile last year. And you'll see that warehouse going by. There are oil tankers cars going by. This is from Spain last September, you could call this the running of the cars and trucks, I guess. Every night on the TV news now is like a nature hike through the Book of Revelation. (Laughter) I mean, really. The insurance industry has certainly noticed, the losses have been mounting up. They're not under any illusions about what's happening. And the causality requires a moment of discussion. We're used to thinking of linear cause and linear effect — one cause, one effect. This is systemic causation. As the great Kevin Trenberth says, ""All storms are different now. There's so much extra energy in the atmosphere, there's so much extra water vapor. Every storm is different now."" So, the same extra heat pulls the soil moisture out of the ground and causes these deeper, longer, more pervasive droughts and many of them are underway right now. It dries out the vegetation and causes more fires in the western part of North America. There's certainly been evidence of that, a lot of them. More lightning, as the heat energy builds up, there's a considerable amount of additional lightning also. These climate-related disasters also have geopolitical consequences and create instability. The climate-related historic drought that started in Syria in 2006 destroyed 60 percent of the farms in Syria, killed 80 percent of the livestock, and drove 1.5 million climate refugees into the cities of Syria, where they collided with another 1.5 million refugees from the Iraq War. And along with other factors, that opened the gates of Hell that people are trying to close now. The US Defense Department has long warned of consequences from the climate crisis, including refugees, food and water shortages and pandemic disease. Right now we're seeing microbial diseases from the tropics spread to the higher latitudes; the transportation revolution has had a lot to do with this. But the changing conditions change the latitudes and the areas where these microbial diseases can become endemic and change the range of the vectors, like mosquitoes and ticks that carry them. The Zika epidemic now — we're better positioned in North America because it's still a little too cool and we have a better public health system. But when women in some regions of South and Central America are advised not to get pregnant for two years — that's something new, that ought to get our attention. The Lancet, one of the two greatest medical journals in the world, last summer labeled this a medical emergency now. And there are many factors because of it. This is also connected to the extinction crisis. We're in danger of losing 50 percent of all the living species on earth by the end of this century. And already, land-based plants and animals are now moving towards the poles at an average rate of 15 feet per day. Speaking of the North Pole, last December 29, the same storm that caused historic flooding in the American Midwest, raised temperatures at the North Pole 50 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than normal, causing the thawing of the North Pole in the middle of the long, dark, winter, polar night. And when the land-based ice of the Arctic melts, it raises sea level. Paul Nicklen's beautiful photograph from Svalbard illustrates this. It's more dangerous coming off Greenland and particularly, Antarctica. The 10 largest risk cities for sea-level rise by population are mostly in South and Southeast Asia. When you measure it by assets at risk, number one is Miami: three and a half trillion dollars at risk. Number three: New York and Newark. I was in Miami last fall during the supermoon, one of the highest high-tide days. And there were fish from the ocean swimming in some of the streets of Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale and Del Rey. And this happens regularly during the highest-tide tides now. Not with rain — they call it ""sunny-day flooding."" It comes up through the storm sewers. And the Mayor of Miami speaks for many when he says it is long past time this can be viewed through a partisan lens. This is a crisis that's getting worse day by day. We have to move beyond partisanship. And I want to take a moment to honor these House Republicans — (Applause) who had the courage last fall to step out and take a political risk, by telling the truth about the climate crisis. So the cost of the climate crisis is mounting up, there are many of these aspects I haven't even mentioned. It's an enormous burden. I'll mention just one more, because the World Economic Forum last month in Davos, after their annual survey of 750 economists, said the climate crisis is now the number one risk to the global economy. So you get central bankers like Mark Carney, the head of the UK Central Bank, saying the vast majority of the carbon reserves are unburnable. Subprime carbon. I'm not going to remind you what happened with subprime mortgages, but it's the same thing. If you look at all of the carbon fuels that were burned since the beginning of the industrial revolution, this is the quantity burned in the last 16 years. Here are all the ones that are proven and left on the books, 28 trillion dollars. The International Energy Agency says only this amount can be burned. So the rest, 22 trillion dollars — unburnable. Risk to the global economy. That's why divestment movement makes practical sense and is not just a moral imperative. So the answer to the first question, ""Must we change?"" is yes, we have to change. Second question, ""Can we change?"" This is the exciting news! The best projections in the world 16 years ago were that by 2010, the world would be able to install 30 gigawatts of wind capacity. We beat that mark by 14 and a half times over. We see an exponential curve for wind installations now. We see the cost coming down dramatically. Some countries — take Germany, an industrial powerhouse with a climate not that different from Vancouver's, by the way — one day last December, got 81 percent of all its energy from renewable resources, mainly solar and wind. A lot of countries are getting more than half on an average basis. More good news: energy storage, from batteries particularly, is now beginning to take off because the cost has been coming down very dramatically to solve the intermittency problem. With solar, the news is even more exciting! The best projections 14 years ago were that we would install one gigawatt per year by 2010. When 2010 came around, we beat that mark by 17 times over. Last year, we beat it by 58 times over. This year, we're on track to beat it 68 times over. We're going to win this. We are going to prevail. The exponential curve on solar is even steeper and more dramatic. When I came to this stage 10 years ago, this is where it was. We have seen a revolutionary breakthrough in the emergence of these exponential curves. (Applause) And the cost has come down 10 percent per year for 30 years. And it's continuing to come down. Now, the business community has certainly noticed this, because it's crossing the grid parity point. Cheaper solar penetration rates are beginning to rise. Grid parity is understood as that line, that threshold, below which renewable electricity is cheaper than electricity from burning fossil fuels. That threshold is a little bit like the difference between 32 degrees Fahrenheit and 33 degrees Fahrenheit, or zero and one Celsius. It's a difference of more than one degree, it's the difference between ice and water. And it's the difference between markets that are frozen up, and liquid flows of capital into new opportunities for investment. This is the biggest new business opportunity in the history of the world, and two-thirds of it is in the private sector. We are seeing an explosion of new investment. Starting in 2010, investments globally in renewable electricity generation surpassed fossils. The gap has been growing ever since. The projections for the future are even more dramatic, even though fossil energy is now still subsidized at a rate 40 times larger than renewables. And by the way, if you add the projections for nuclear on here, particularly if you assume that the work many are doing to try to break through to safer and more acceptable, more affordable forms of nuclear, this could change even more dramatically. So is there any precedent for such a rapid adoption of a new technology? Well, there are many, but let's look at cell phones. In 1980, AT&T, then Ma Bell, commissioned McKinsey to do a global market survey of those clunky new mobile phones that appeared then. ""How many can we sell by the year 2000?"" they asked. McKinsey came back and said, ""900,000."" And sure enough, when the year 2000 arrived, they did sell 900,000 — in the first three days. And for the balance of the year, they sold 120 times more. And now there are more cell connections than there are people in the world. So, why were they not only wrong, but way wrong? I've asked that question myself, ""Why?"" (Laughter) And I think the answer is in three parts. First, the cost came down much faster than anybody expected, even as the quality went up. And low-income countries, places that did not have a landline grid — they leap-frogged to the new technology. The big expansion has been in the developing counties. So what about the electricity grids in the developing world? Well, not so hot. And in many areas, they don't exist. There are more people without any electricity at all in India than the entire population of the United States of America. So now we're getting this: solar panels on grass huts and new business models that make it affordable. Muhammad Yunus financed this one in Bangladesh with micro-credit. This is a village market. Bangladesh is now the fastest-deploying country in the world: two systems per minute on average, night and day. And we have all we need: enough energy from the Sun comes to the earth every hour to supply the full world's energy needs for an entire year. It's actually a little bit less than an hour. So the answer to the second question, ""Can we change?"" is clearly ""Yes."" And it's an ever-firmer ""yes."" Last question, ""Will we change?"" Paris really was a breakthrough, some of the provisions are binding and the regular reviews will matter a lot. But nations aren't waiting, they're going ahead. China has already announced that starting next year, they're adopting a nationwide cap and trade system. They will likely link up with the European Union. The United States has already been changing. All of these coal plants were proposed in the next 10 years and canceled. All of these existing coal plants were retired. All of these coal plants have had their retirement announced. All of them — canceled. We are moving forward. Last year — if you look at all of the investment in new electricity generation in the United States, almost three-quarters was from renewable energy, mostly wind and solar. We are solving this crisis. The only question is: how long will it take to get there? So, it matters that a lot of people are organizing to insist on this change. Almost 400,000 people marched in New York City before the UN special session on this. Many thousands, tens of thousands, marched in cities around the world. And so, I am extremely optimistic. As I said before, we are going to win this. I'll finish with this story. When I was 13 years old, I heard that proposal by President Kennedy to land a person on the Moon and bring him back safely in 10 years. And I heard adults of that day and time say, ""That's reckless, expensive, may well fail."" But eight years and two months later, in the moment that Neil Armstrong set foot on the Moon, there was great cheer that went up in NASA's mission control in Houston. Here's a little-known fact about that: the average age of the systems engineers, the controllers in the room that day, was 26, which means, among other things, their age, when they heard that challenge, was 18. We now have a moral challenge that is in the tradition of others that we have faced. One of the greatest poets of the last century in the US, Wallace Stevens, wrote a line that has stayed with me: ""After the final 'no,' there comes a 'yes,' and on that 'yes', the future world depends."" When the abolitionists started their movement, they met with no after no after no. And then came a yes. The Women's Suffrage and Women's Rights Movement met endless no's, until finally, there was a yes. The Civil Rights Movement, the movement against apartheid, and more recently, the movement for gay and lesbian rights here in the United States and elsewhere. After the final ""no"" comes a ""yes."" When any great moral challenge is ultimately resolved into a binary choice between what is right and what is wrong, the outcome is fore-ordained because of who we are as human beings. Ninety-nine percent of us, that is where we are now and it is why we're going to win this. We have everything we need. Some still doubt that we have the will to act, but I say the will to act is itself a renewable resource. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: You've got this incredible combination of skills. You've got this scientist mind that can understand the full range of issues, and the ability to turn it into the most vivid language. No one else can do that, that's why you led this thing. It was amazing to see it 10 years ago, it was amazing to see it now. Al Gore: Well, you're nice to say that, Chris. But honestly, I have a lot of really good friends in the scientific community who are incredibly patient and who will sit there and explain this stuff to me over and over and over again until I can get it into simple enough language that I can understand it. And that's the key to trying to communicate. CA: So, your talk. First part: terrifying, second part: incredibly hopeful. How do we know that all those graphs, all that progress, is enough to solve what you showed in the first part? AG: I think that the crossing — you know, I've only been in the business world for 15 years. But one of the things I've learned is that apparently it matters if a new product or service is more expensive than the incumbent, or cheaper than. Turns out, it makes a difference if it's cheaper than. (Laughter) And when it crosses that line, then a lot of things really change. We are regularly surprised by these developments. The late Rudi Dornbusch, the great economist said, ""Things take longer to happen then you think they will, and then they happen much faster than you thought they could."" I really think that's where we are. Some people are using the phrase ""The Solar Singularity"" now, meaning when it gets below the grid parity, unsubsidized in most places, then it's the default choice. Now, in one of the presentations yesterday, the jitney thing, there is an effort to use regulations to slow this down. And I just don't think it's going to work. There's a woman in Atlanta, Debbie Dooley, who's the Chairman of the Atlanta Tea Party. They enlisted her in this effort to put a tax on solar panels and regulations. And she had just put solar panels on her roof and she didn't understand the request. (Laughter) And so she went and formed an alliance with the Sierra Club and they formed a new organization called the Green Tea Party. (Laughter) (Applause) And they defeated the proposal. So, finally, the answer to your question is, this sounds a little corny and maybe it's a cliché, but 10 years ago — and Christiana referred to this — there are people in this audience who played an incredibly significant role in generating those exponential curves. And it didn't work out economically for some of them, but it kick-started this global revolution. And what people in this audience do now with the knowledge that we are going to win this. But it matters a lot how fast we win it. CA: Al Gore, that was incredibly powerful. If this turns out to be the year, that the partisan thing changes, as you said, it's no longer a partisan issue, but you bring along people from the other side together, backed by science, backed by these kinds of investment opportunities, backed by reason that you win the day — boy, that's really exciting. Thank you so much. AG: Thank you so much for bringing me back to TED. Thank you! (Applause)"	我很興奮能參與這次的主題「夢想」，沒想到我卻在「惡夢」這部分做開場。 （笑聲） 氣候危機在某些方面確實是場惡夢，我有一些壞消息，但我有更多的好消息。我將會提出三個問題，而第一個問題的答案無可避免的帶有一些壞消息。但是別喪氣，因為第二和第三個問題的答案都是非常正向的。 那麼，第一個問題是「我們真的需要改變嗎？」當然，阿波羅計畫以及其他事物改變了環境運動，真正發起了現代環境運動。在這張地球升起的照片首次出現在地球上的 18 個月後，第一次世界地球日（活動）組織成立了。藉由從宇宙回顧我們的星球，我們也更加認識了自己。而我們所發現的其中一件事，證實了長久以來科學家告訴我們的。其中一項最重要的事實，就是氣候危機和天空息息相關。如照片所示，天空並非像我們從地上仰望所看到的那樣廣大且遼闊無邊。天空是一層非常薄的大氣層環繞著地球。現在它就像是一條飽受汙染的無蓋下水道，由目前的工業文明架構所導致。我們每 24 小時便排放出１億１千萬噸會暖化地球的汙染物進入大氣層，免費無負擔，儘管做吧。 而溫室氣體的來源有很多，我當然無法一一敘明。我會專注在主要的來源上，但，農業是其中之一，飲食也是、人口也是。林業、運輸、海洋、永凍土融化統統都是。不過我會聚焦在問題的核心，也就是事實上全世界每年有 85% 的能源依然是靠燃燒骯髒的碳基燃料所產生。從圖上你們可以看到在二戰後，碳排放率開始急遽竄升。而大量累積的人為地球暖化物染物現在上升到大氣層中，困住的多餘熱能，相當於每 24 小時便引爆 40 萬顆廣島原子彈，而且持續連爆一年 365 天。事實查證了一遍又一遍，保守而言，這是事實。這是一個巨大的星球，但是……（爆炸聲） 那可是很多的能量。 特別是當你把它乘上每天 40 萬倍。並且，所有那些多餘的熱能正在把大氣層、整個地球系統加溫。我們來看一下大氣層。 這是我們過去認為正常的溫度分布圖。白色代表正常溫度的日子；1951-1980 年是隨機選擇的年份。藍色是比平均冷的日子，紅色是比平均熱的日子。但是在 1980 年代整個曲線移動到了右方。你們會看到在右下角，在統計上極度炎熱的日子出現了相當顯著的數字。在 90 年代曲線又更進一步往右移。在最近的 10 年，你們看到極度炎熱的日子現在比起相對冷的日子多出了很多天。事實上，炎熱的天數在地球表面整整多出了 150 倍，跟短短 30 年前相比。所以我們正擁有著破紀錄的溫度， 在 15 個有使用儀器測量最熱的年份中，有 14 個是在這個年輕的世紀。其中最熱的一年是去年，上個月則是第 371 個連續的月份，比 20 世紀的平均溫度還要熱。並且，上個月不僅是有始以來最熱的一月，還是第一次比平均高了華氏 2 度。較高的溫度對動物、植物、人類及生態系統都有影響。 在以全球為基準的情況下，93% 的多餘熱能是被困在海洋中。而科學家對於溫度的攀升現在有更精準的測量，在各種深度：深、中層海洋以及僅數百公尺淺層海洋，溫度都正在加升。這可以回溯到一個多世紀以前。並且有超過一半的升溫是發生在過去 19 年。這些是有後果的。 第一個後果便是發源於海洋的風暴變得更強烈。超級颱風海燕在侵襲獨魯萬市之前，經過的太平洋地區比平常的溫度高了華氏 5.5 度，而以有始以來最具破壞性的颱風姿態登陸。教宗方濟各在這整個議題上作了許多努力，在那之後立刻拜訪了獨魯萬市。颶風桑迪在侵襲紐約與紐澤西之前，行經的大西洋區比平常溫度高了華氏 9 度。而第二個後果現在正影響著我們所有人。升溫後的海洋蒸發更多的水蒸氣進入天空。世界各地的平均濕度已增加了 4%，並製造出這些大氣長河。巴西的科學家稱它們為「飛行的河流」。它們把那些額外的水蒸氣注入到大地之上，觸發暴雨條件造成這些破紀錄的傾盆大雨。這是來自蒙大那州的照片。看一下這個去年八月的暴風雨。隨著它行經亞利桑那州土桑市，它就如字面上的意思「倒濕」了整個城市。這些傾盆大雨非常的不尋常。 去年七月在德州休士頓下了兩天的雨，雨量高達一千六百二十億加侖。這比尼加拉瓜瀑布在此城市之中以全流量流出兩天的水量還多，理所當然地，使之癱瘓。這些空前的大雨造成了歷史性的洪水與土石流。 這是去年的智利。你會看到那個倉庫被沖走。那邊是油罐車漂過。這是來自去年九月的西班牙，我猜你們可以稱這個作川流不息的汽車與卡車。現在每一晚的電視新聞都像在聖經《啟示錄》裡健行一樣。（注：世界末日災難不斷） （笑聲） 我是說真的。 保險產業必然已經注意到虧損正在增長。他們對於正在發生的事沒有任何的錯覺。而因果關係需要花一段時間討論。我們習慣於線性因果關係的思考──一個原因，一個後果。然而這是一個系統的因果關係。如同偉大的氣象學家凱文‧崔伯斯所說：「現在所有的暴風雨都是不同的，大氣層中有太多多餘的能量，有太多額外的水蒸氣，每個暴風雨現在都是不一樣的。」而，同樣的多餘熱能把土壤中的水分帶離土地，造成這些更深、更久更常見的乾旱，現在還有很多也依然在持續。 乾旱使草木枯萎，並在北美洲西部造成更多火災。很顯然還有其它跡象，很多的跡象。 更多的閃電，隨著熱能的增加，有相當程度的額外閃電也增加了。 這些與氣候相關的災難同時也帶來地緣政治的後果，並造成動盪。敘利亞自 2006 年開始，因氣候導致的歷史性乾旱摧毀了敘利亞 60% 的農田，導致 80% 的牲畜死亡，並驅使 150 萬名氣候難民進入敘利亞的城市，在那裡他們還會碰上另外 150 萬源自於伊拉克戰爭的難民。再綜合其他因素，地獄之門便被開啟了，人們現在在試圖關上它。美國國防部早已警告氣候危機會造成的後果，包括難民、食物以及水源短缺，還有流行性疾病。 現在我們看到來自熱帶地區的微生物傳染疾病散播到較高緯度的地區；交通運輸革新對此有很大的影響。但改變中的自然條件，也改變了這些微生物疾病可以傳播的緯度和區域，並改變了傳染媒介的範圍，像是蚊子與壁蝨等帶原者。現在的茲卡病毒感染症──我們很幸運位在北美洲，因為這裡還是有點太冷，而且我們有較佳的公共衛生制度。然而在南美洲和中美洲某些地區的婦女們，被建議至少兩年不要懷孕──這是值得我們關注的新議題。《刺絡針》為世界上最棒的二本醫學期刊之一，去年夏天把個議題標記為一項緊急醫療事件。這個問題還造成了其他許多現象。 這同時也牽涉到滅絕危機。我們正處於地球上 50% 的生物會在這個世紀末消失的危險之中。並且陸上的植物與動物早已開始往極地遷徙，以平均每天 15 英呎的速度移動。 說到北極，去年 12 月 29 日，在美國中西部造成嚴重水災的同一場暴風雨，還提高了北極的溫度，比平常溫度上升了華氏 50 度，造成北極在正值漫長、黑暗和寒冷的永夜期間融化。而當北極的冰層融化，會造成海平面上升。 保羅‧尼克蘭在斯瓦爾巴拍攝的美麗照片呈現了這個景象。融化的現象在格陵蘭更加危急。還有特別是南極。十個最受海平面上升威脅的城市，如果以人口來衡量大多是位在南亞和東南亞，用受到威脅的資產來衡量時，首當其衝的是邁阿密：三兆五千億的美元的風險。第三名則是紐約和紐華克。去年秋天，我人在邁阿密，在超級月亮的期間，也就是會有超級滿潮的日子，來自海洋的魚在街道上游泳，在邁阿密海灘、羅德岱堡跟德拉海灘的街道。現在這個情況在超級滿潮期間已成為常態發生的現象。沒有下雨──他們稱之為「大晴天的水災」。是從雨水下水道冒出來的。而邁阿密的市長說出了很多人的心聲，他說這個問題早已不能再以黨派的立場看待，這是一個災難，而且一天比一天嚴重。我們必須採取超越黨派的行動。 我想花一些時間來對這幾位眾議院共和黨員表示尊敬── （掌聲） 他們在去年秋天勇敢地站出來並且承擔政治風險，說出了關於氣候危機的真相。 氣候危機所付出的代價正在攀升，還有許多部分是我尚未提到的。氣候危機是相當龐大的負擔。我只再舉一個例子。上個月在達佛斯的世界經濟論壇，在對 750 位經濟學家提出的年度調查，指出氣候危機對於世界經濟是名列第一的威脅之後，你發現中央銀行總裁們，像是馬克·卡尼，英格蘭銀行總裁，跳出來說絕大多數蘊藏的碳是無法開採燃燒的。是「次級」碳。我不是要提醒你們次級房貸發生了什麼事，但這是同樣的道理。如果你們回顧自工業革命開始所有被燃燒的碳燃料，這是過去 16 年燃燒的量，而這邊是所有被證實並且登記在案的量，28 兆美元。國際能源署表示只有這麼多的碳燃料可以開採燃燒，所以其餘的，22 兆美元──無法開採燃燒。將會對世界經濟造成威脅。這也是為什麼（化石燃料）撤資行動顯得很實際，而不僅僅只是出於道德上的必要。 所以第一個問題的答案「我們一定要改變嗎？」是肯定的，我們必須改變。第二個問題是：「我們可以改變嗎？」這是一個讓人興奮的消息！16 年前世界上最樂觀的預測是在 2010 年時，全世界將能夠達到300 億瓦的風力裝置發電容量，但我們以超過 14.5 倍的實際發展打破了那個目標。現在我們看到的是代表風力發電裝置的指數曲線。我們可以看到成本正在急遽降低。某些國家──以德國這樣的工業強國為例，附帶一提，氣候與溫哥華差不多，去年 12 月的某天，81% 的能源是來自可再生的能源，主要是太陽能和風力。許多國家平均使用一半以上的可再生能源。 更多的好消息：能量儲存，特別是電池，正在開始起飛，因為用來解決間歇性問題的成本已經急速地下降。關於太陽能的消息更是令人興奮！14 年前最佳的預測是我們能在 2010 年時每年達到 10 億瓦，然而當 2010 年到來時，我們以超越預測的 17 倍，打敗了目標。去年，我們超標 58 倍。今年，我們在朝超標 68 倍前進。 我們將會成功。我們將會獲勝。太陽能的指數曲線甚至更陡峭，更有戲劇性。我十年前來到這個講台時，這是它所在的位置。我們在這些指數曲線的激升上見證了一場革命性的突破。 （掌聲） 而成本也以每年 10% 的速率降低，過去 30 年來皆是，並且仍在持續下降。 現在，商業界顯然已注意到這件事，因為它正要與市電同價相交了。較便宜的太陽能使市場滲透率開始上升，市電同價可以被理解為像是一條線、一道門檻，在那之下是可再生的電力比燃燒化石燃料的電力還要便宜。這道門檻有點像是華氏 32 度與華氏 33 度，或者說是攝氏 0 度與 1 度的差別。這不只是多出 1 度的差別，這是介於冰與水的差別。這是將資金注入邁向冷凍的市場，與將資金注入新興投資機會的差別。這是世界有史以來最大的新興產業機會，並且有三分之二都是在民營範疇。我們在目擊一場新興投資的爆發，自 2010 年開始，全球在可再生能源發電的投資超過化石燃料，差距並且自此逐漸拉大。對於未來的展望也更加令人興奮，儘管現在化石燃料仍受到多過可再生能源 40 倍的資助。順便一提，如果你加上對核能的預測，特別是如果你假設有許多人正在努力嘗試去突破，達成更安全、更能被接受以及更能負擔的核能形式時，改變可能會更加激烈。 至於過往是否有如此快速採用一項新科技的先例呢？是的，有很多，讓我們回顧一下手機。1980 年， AT&T 電信公司，那時還叫 Ma Bell，委託麥肯錫公司對當時新出現的那些笨重手機做一個全球的市場調查。他們問：「在 2000 年我們可以賣出多少隻？」麥肯錫做了調查並回答說「90 萬隻。」果然如此，到了 2000 年時他們的確賣了 90 萬隻──在最開始的 3 天。而在年度結餘，他們賣了比預期的多出 120 倍。而現在，世界上手機的數量甚至比人還多。 所以為什麼他們不僅錯了，而且還錯得很離譜呢？我也問過我自己這個問題：「為什麼？」 （笑聲） 我想答案可以分成三個部份。首先，手機成本下降的速度快到超過所有人的預期，儘管品質是提升的。而在低收入國家，在沒有通訊線路的地方──他們直接跳躍到新的科技。這種龐大的擴張在開發中國家盛行。那麼輸電網路在開發中國家的表現又如何呢？嗯，沒那麼熱門。而且在許多地區根本沒有輸電網路。在印度，沒有任何電力可用的人比起全美國的總人口數還要多。所以我們得到這個結果：太陽能面板裝在茅草屋上，而新的商業模式使人們能負擔得起。穆罕默德·尤納斯在孟加拉提供低息小額貸款安裝這種面板。這是某個村莊的市場。孟加拉現在是世界上發展最快速的開發中國家：每一天平均每分鐘便安裝二套太陽能系統。我們擁有我們需要的一切：每個小時都有足以提供全球一整年所需的能源從太陽進入地球，事實上甚至是不到一個小時就夠了。所以回答第二個問題：「我們可以改變嗎？」很明顯地，「可以」。而且是再堅定不過的「可以」。 最後一個問題：「我們會改變嗎？」巴黎高峰會是一個真正的突破，有些條款具有約束力，而定期的審查將是很重要的。但各個國家可沒在空等待，他們已毫不遲疑地開始行動。中國早就宣佈，明年開始，他們將要採用一套全國性的（排放）總量管制與交易制度。他們極有可能與歐盟聯手。美國也已經在改變。所有計畫在未來十年內要建設的燃煤發電廠都被取消了。這些現存的燃煤發電廠也已關廠。而剩下的這些燃煤發電廠也已受到宣告將要關閉。這些全部──都被廢除了。我們在前進。去年──如果你觀察所有在美國的新型發電投資，幾乎有四分之三是來自再生能源，其中大部分是風力與太陽能。 我們正在解決這項危機。唯一的問題是：「要花多久的時間？」所以，人們組織起來堅持這項改變是相當重要的。有近乎四十萬人於紐約市遊行，在聯合國針對此問題的特別會議召開前夕。數千人，數萬人遊行於世界各個城市。因此，我感到相當樂觀。就如同我前面所說的，我們將會勝利。 我要以這個故事來做結尾。當我 13 歲的時候，我聽到甘迺迪總統的計畫，要讓人登陸月球並平安無事地回來，在十年之內。我也聽到當時的大人說：「這是魯莽、昂貴、極可能失敗的。」但是八年二個月之後，當尼爾·阿姆斯壯踏上月球的剎那，在休士頓 NASA 的任務中心發出了響徹雲霄的歡呼。這裡是一些鮮為人知的事實：當天在那個房間裡的系統工程師、管制員的平均年齡是 26 歲。這代表，包括其它事情，他們在聽到那項挑戰時是 18 歲。 我們現在則有一個道德挑戰，一如我們過往所面臨的挑戰。美國上個世紀一位傑出的詩人，華萊士·史蒂文斯，寫了一段我銘記在心的話：「在最終的『不』之後，將會迎來一個『好』。而那個『好』，未來世界取決於上。」當廢奴主義者開始他們的運動時，他們碰到一個又一個的不，然後是一個好。女性參政權與女權運動碰到無數的不，直到最後得到了一個好。黑人民權運動，即反對種族隔離的運動，以及就在最近關於男女同性戀權利的運動，在美國以及世界各地，在最終的「不」之後，是一個「好」。 當任何一個重要的道德挑戰，最終成為對錯之間的二元選擇時，結果是注定的，因為我們身為人類。99% 的我們，這是我們現在的處境，這也是我們為什麼會獲勝的原因。我們擁有我們所需要的一切。有些人仍在懷疑我們是否有行動的意志。但我要說行動的意志本身就是可再生的能源。 非常謝謝你們。 （掌聲） 克里斯·安德森：你有超乎尋常的結合能力。你有科學家的頭腦可以了解這整個議題，並且有能力將之化成生動的語言。沒有其他人可以做到這一點，這正是為什麼是由你領導這個行動。十年前聽到令人震撼，現在依然也是。 艾爾·高爾：你太客氣了，克理斯。但老實說，我有很多很棒的朋友來自於科學界，他們不厭其煩的坐在那邊並對我解釋這一切，一遍又一遍，直到我可以理解並能轉化成我可以了解的簡單語言。而這也是去嘗試溝通的要點。 克理斯：所以，在你的演講中第一個部分：可怕的。第二個部分：充滿無比希望的。我們怎麼知道這邊所有的圖表、所有的進步，是足以用來解決你在第一部分所展示的問題呢？ 高爾：我想在跨越……你知道，我進入商業界只有 15 年。但我學到的其中一件事就是，很顯然一項新商品或是服務是否比現有的商品更貴或更便宜很重要，而結果是，更便宜時才會造成改變。 （笑聲） 而當跨越那個標準時，很多事情便真正改變了。我們經常對這些發展感到驚訝。已故的偉大經濟學家魯迪‧登布修曾說：「事情發展得比你預期得慢，然後又發展得超乎你想像得快。」我真的認為那是我們現在的處境。有些人現在甚至用「太陽能唯一」這個詞，來表示當太陽能下降至市電平價之下，且在大部分的地區都不需要受到資助時，太陽能將成為一個預設的選擇。 那麼昨天有一場演說在談共享計程車，有些人也嘗試用法律規範來拖延太陽能的發展，但我就是認為這不可能成功。 在亞特蘭大有一位婦女黛比‧朵莉，她是亞特蘭大茶黨的主席。他們徵召她來為課徵太陽能板稅收與相關規範出力。而她才剛剛將太陽能板裝上屋頂。所以她不太能理解他們的請求。 （笑聲） 因此，她跑去與環保組織塞拉俱樂部組織同盟，他們成立了一個新的組織叫綠茶黨。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 他們否決了那項提議。所以，最後，對於你問題的答案是，這可能聽起來有點老掉牙，而且或許有些陳腔濫調，但是十年前──克莉斯丁安娜提到──這群觀眾之中有某些人扮演了難以言喻的重要角色，貢獻產生那些指數曲線。他們之中有某些人經濟上來說並沒有成功，但卻為了地球的改革揭開了序幕。而在場的觀眾們現在有了我們將會勝利的認知。但是我們能多快成功將影響重大。 克里斯：艾爾‧高爾，那真是撼動人心的回答。如果今年剛巧就是政黨輪替的一年，如你所言，這不再只是一個黨的問題，而你凝聚了雙方人馬，有科學、各種投資機會背書，有你說服大家的理由背書，朋友，這真是非常振奮人心， 非常謝謝你。 高爾：非常感謝你們邀請我重返 TED。謝謝！ （掌聲）
