Talk	en	zh-tw
alec_soth_stacey_baker_this_is_what_enduring_love_looks_like	"Alec Soth: So about 10 years ago, I got a call from a woman in Texas, Stacey Baker, and she'd seen some of my photographs in an art exhibition and was wondering if she could commission me to take a portrait of her parents. Now, at the time I hadn't met Stacey, and I thought this was some sort of wealthy oil tycoon and I'd struck it rich, but it was only later that I found out she'd actually taken out a loan to make this happen. I took the picture of her parents, but I was actually more excited about photographing Stacey. The picture I made that day ended up becoming one of my best-known portraits. At the time I made this picture, Stacey was working as an attorney for the State of Texas. Not long after, she left her job to study photography in Maine, and while she was there, she ended up meeting the director of photography at the New York Times Magazine and was actually offered a job. Stacey Baker: In the years since, Alec and I have done a number of magazine projects together, and we've become friends. A few months ago, I started talking to Alec about a fascination of mine. I've always been obsessed with how couples meet. I asked Alec how he and his wife Rachel met, and he told me the story of a high school football game where she was 16 and he was 15, and he asked her out. He liked her purple hair. She said yes, and that was it. I then asked Alec if he'd be interested in doing a photography project exploring this question. AS: And I was interested in the question, but I was actually much more interested in Stacey's motivation for asking it, particularly since I'd never known Stacey to have a boyfriend. So as part of this project, I thought it'd be interesting if she tried to meet someone. So my idea was to have Stacey here go speed dating in Las Vegas on Valentine's Day. (Laughter) (Applause) (Music) SB: We ended up at what was advertised as the world's largest speed dating event. I had 19 dates and each date lasted three minutes. Participants were given a list of ice- breaker questions to get the ball rolling, things like, ""If you could be any kind of animal, what would you be?"" That sort of thing. My first date was Colin. He's from England, and he once married a woman he met after placing an ad for a Capricorn. Alec and I saw him at the end of the evening, and he said he'd kissed a woman in line at one of the concession stands. Zack and Chris came to the date-a-thon together. This is Carl. I asked Carl, ""What's the first thing you notice about a woman?"" He said, ""Tits."" (Laughter) Matthew is attracted to women with muscular calves. We talked about running. He does triathlons, I run half-marathons. Alec actually liked his eyes and asked if I was attracted to him, but I wasn't, and I don't think he was attracted to me either. Austin and Mike came together. Mike asked me a hypothetical question. He said, ""You're in an elevator running late for a meeting. Someone makes a dash for the elevator. Do you hold it open for them?"" And I said I would not. (Laughter) Cliff said the first thing he notices about a woman is her teeth, and we complimented each other's teeth. Because he's an open mouth sleeper, he says he has to floss more to help prevent gum disease, and so I asked him how often he flosses, and he said, ""Every other day."" (Laughter) Now, as someone who flosses twice a day, I wasn't really sure that that was flossing more but I don't think I said that out loud. Bill is an auditor, and we talked the entire three minutes about auditing. (Laughter) The first thing Spencer notices about a woman is her complexion. He feels a lot of women wear too much makeup, and that they should only wear enough to accentuate the features that they have. I told him I didn't wear any makeup at all and he seemed to think that that was a good thing. Craig told me he didn't think I was willing to be vulnerable. He was also frustrated when I couldn't remember my most embarrassing moment. He thought I was lying, but I wasn't. I didn't think he liked me at all, but at the end of the night, he came back to me and he gave me a box of chocolates. William was really difficult to talk to. I think he was drunk. (Laughter) Actor Chris McKenna was the MC of the event. He used to be on ""The Young and the Restless."" I didn't actually go on a date with him. Alec said he saw several women give their phone numbers to him. Needless to say, I didn't fall in love. I didn't feel a particular connection with any of the men that I went on dates with, and I didn't feel like they felt a particular connection with me either. AS: Now, the most beautiful thing to me — (Laughter) — as a photographer is the quality of vulnerability. The physical exterior reveals a crack in which you can get a glimpse at a more fragile interior. At this date-a-thon event, I saw so many examples of that, but as I watched Stacey's dates and talked to her about them, I realized how different photographic love is from real love. What is real love? How does it work? In order to work on this question and to figure out how someone goes from meeting on a date to having a life together, Stacey and I went to Sun City Summerlin, which is the largest retirement community in Las Vegas. Our contact there was George, who runs the community's photography club. He arranged for us to meet other couples in their makeshift photo studio. SB: After 45 years of marriage, Anastasia's husband died two years ago, so we asked if she had an old wedding picture. She met her husband when she was a 15-year-old waitress at a small barbecue place in Michigan. He was 30. She'd lied about her age. He was the first person she'd dated. Dean had been named photographer of the year in Las Vegas two years in a row, and this caught Alec's attention, as did the fact  that he met his wife, Judy, at the same age when Alec met Rachel. Dean admitted that he likes to look at beautiful women, but he's never questioned his decision to marry Judy. AS: George met Josephine at a parish dance. He was 18, she was 15. Like a lot of the couples we met, they weren't especially philosophical about their early choices. George said something that really stuck with me. He said, ""When you get that feeling, you just go with it."" Bob and Trudy met on a blind date when she was still in high school. They said they weren't particularly attracted to each other when the first met. Nevertheless, they were married soon after. SB: The story that stayed with me the most was that of George, the photography club president, and his wife, Mary. This was George and Mary's second marriage. They met at a country-western club in Louisville, Kentucky called the Sahara. He was there alone drinking and she was with friends. When they started dating, he owed the IRS 9,000 dollars in taxes, and she offered to help him get out of debt, so for the next year, he turned his paychecks over to Mary, and she got him out of debt. George was actually an alcoholic when they married, and Mary knew it. At some point in their marriage, he says he consumed 54 beers in one day. Another time, when he was drunk, he threatened to kill Mary and her two kids, but they escaped and a SWAT team was called to the house. Amazingly, Mary took him back, and eventually things got better. George has been involved in Alcoholics Anonymous and hasn't had a drink in 36 years. (Music) At the end of the day, after we left Sun City, I told Alec that I didn't actually think that the stories of how these couples met were all that interesting. What was more interesting was how they managed to stay together. AS: They all had this beautiful quality of endurance, but that was true of the singles, too. The world is hard, and the singles were out there trying to connect with other people, and the couples were holding onto each other after all these decades. My favorite pictures on this trip were of Joe and Roseanne. Now, by the time we met Joe and Roseanne, we'd gotten in the habit of asking couples if they had an old wedding photograph. In their case, they simultaneously pulled out of their wallets the exact same photograph. What's more beautiful, I thought to myself, this image of a young couple who has just fallen in love or the idea of these two people holding onto this image for decades? Thank you. (Applause)"	索思：大約10年前，我接到從德州打來的女子來電，史黛絲貝克，她在一次藝術展覽中看過我的攝影作品，她想聘請我替她的父母拍照。那時我還未見過史黛絲，以為他們是有錢的石油大亨，心想今回可以賺一筆了，但是後來發現她事實上靠借錢來做這件事。我替她的父母拍照，但是我比較熱衷給史黛絲拍照。那天拍下的照片，最後變成我最出名的個人照片之一。我拍下這張照片時，史黛絲正在德州做律師。其後不久，她辭職去緬因州學攝影，她在那裡，結果遇到紐約時代週刊的攝影主管，她因此而獲得新工作。史黛絲：從此以後，亞歷克跟我多年來一齊合作做很多週刊項目，漸漸結為朋友。數月前，我開始跟亞歷克談到我醉心的一件事。我一直很著迷一對伴侶是怎樣邂逅的。我問亞歷克他是怎樣遇到自己的太太瑞秋，他說了高中足球比賽的故事，兩人在那次活動相遇，太太當時16歲，他15歲，亞歷克約瑞秋外出約會。他喜歡她那把紫色的頭髮。她說哦，故事就是這樣。然後我問他是否願意做一個攝影項目去探討這個題目。亞歷克：我是有興趣，但事實上我最想知道史黛絲背後的動機，特別是我從來不知道史黛絲有男朋友。所以如果她想結識男朋友，而作為這個項目其中一部份，將會是非常有趣的事情。於是我想史黛絲在情人節那天，到拉斯維加斯參加快速約會。（笑聲）（掌聲）（音樂）史黛絲：結果我們參加了被宣傳為全世界最盛大的快速約會。我有19個約會，而每次約會歷時 3 分鐘，參加者會得到一組有助於打破悶局的問題來開頭，例如：「假如你可以變成動物，你想做那種動物？」諸如此類。我第一個約會對象是科林。他來自英國，曾經跟一名女子結過婚，是他登廣告徴求摩羯座女生時認識的。活動結束前，我和亞歷克見到他，他說在攤位前排隊時吻了一位女子。沙克和克里斯一齊到來參加約會馬拉松。這是卡爾。我問卡爾：「你看女人時首先留意她的什麼？」他説：「乳房。」（笑聲）馬修喜愛女性擁有結實的小腿。我們談跑步。他參加三項鐵人賽，我跑半馬拉松。亞歷克喜歡他的眼睛，問我是否迷上他，但我説沒有，我覺得他對我沒興趣。奧斯丁和麥克一起到來。麥克問我一條假設的問題。他説：「如果你正要趕著去開會，進入升降機後，這時有人想衝入升降機。妳會按著開門鈕讓他進來嗎？」我説不會。（笑聲）奇里夫見到女性，最先留意她的牙齒，於是我們互相讚美對方的牙齒。因為他睡覺要張開口，所以用牙線潔齒，可以防止牙齦病。我問他隔多久用牙線？他説：「每隔一天。」（笑聲）現在有人一日用兩次牙線。我不太肯定這是否用得過多，但我不會大聲説出來。比爾是審計員，我們談了整整3分鐘都是審計的話題。（笑聲）史賓莎最先注意女性的面容。他覺得很多女性化濃妝，化妝時應該突出臉部輪廓便足夠。我對他説我幾乎沒有化妝，他似乎覺得這是好事。克雷格說我不是脆弱的人。他對我未能記得曾遇過的最尷尬時刻，感到失望。他認為我撒謊，但我沒有。我想他並不喜歡我，但到了晚上結束時，他回來給我一盒巧克力。我真的感到難以跟威廉聊天，我覺得他喝醉了。（笑聲）演員克里斯·麥肯納是活動的司儀，他曾經演出「不安分的青春」，我真的沒有跟他約會。亞歷克見有幾個女生留下電話號碼給他。不用說，我沒有墮入愛河。那些跟我約會過的男士，我對他們沒有特別感覺，我相信他們對我也一樣。亞歷克：現在我覺得最美的事（笑聲）作為一位攝影師，大家都容易受到傷害的本質。外表反映了那道裂縫讓你能夠看到內心的脆弱。我在這次活動看到很多這些例子，但觀察史黛絲约會，後來跟她討論，才領悟到相片裡看到的愛情跟真愛是那麼不同。什麼叫做真愛？它怎樣實現呢？為了解答這個問題和了解伴侶怎樣從赴約變成終生廝守，史黛絲和我到太陽城薩默林，那裡是拉斯維加斯最大的退休人士社區。我們聯絡了佐治，他管理那裡的攝影會。他安排我們在臨時的製片廠與其他夫婦見面。史黛絲：經過了45年婚姻，安娜塔西亞的丈夫兩年前過世，我們問她有沒有結婚的舊相片。她15歲那年，跟丈夫邂逅。那時她在密揭根州的一個小型燒烤場當女侍應。他當時30歲，而她說謊，虛報年齡，她第一個約會的對象便是他。迪恩連續兩年在拉斯維加斯獲選為年度攝影家，因此吸引了亞歷克的注意。其實迪恩跟太太相遇的年紀和亞歷克跟瑞秋相遇的年紀一樣。迪恩承認自己愛看美女，但他從不後悔決定與茱迪結婚。亞歷克：佐治與約瑟芬在社區舞會相識。佐治當時18歲，約瑟芬15歳。就像我們遇到的很多伴侶，他們早年的決定並不特別是卓越且有見識的，佐治說了些話，令我無法忘記。他說：「如果你有那種感覺，便要隨著它走。」卓迪還在讀高中時，跟卜合相親。兩人說大家初次見面時，並没有彼此吸引。但是不久之後，他們便結婚了。史黛絲：令我感受最深刻的是攝影會主席佐治和妻子瑪麗的故事，兩人都是再次結婚。他們邂逅於肯德基卅路易維耳市的西部鄉村俱樂部，其名為撒哈拉，佐治一個人在那裡喝酒，而瑪麗則與朋友一齊。他們開始來往時，佐治欠下稅局九千元，而她願意幫助他還清債務。於是第二年，他把薪水全部交給瑪麗，最後瑪麗幫他償還欠債。佐治其實是酒鬼，兩人結婚時，瑪麗早已知道。他們婚後，他說有些日子試過一日喝54杯啤酒，又有一次，他喝醉了，還威脅要殺死瑪麗和兩個孩子。不過瑪麗跟孩子逃脫了，特警隊還奉召到來。令人吃驚的是瑪麗帶他回家，最終其後生活漸入佳境。佐治參加了戒酒無名會，現在已經有 36 年沒有喝酒。（音樂）工作完畢，我們離開太陽城，我告訴亞歷克我真的不覺得這些伴侶的邂逅故事有趣，更有意思的是他們怎樣想辦法待在一起。亞歷克：他們都具有忍耐的美德，但單身人士也一樣。他們生活困難，也在㚈面希望跟別人交往，而伴侶們經過這麼多年長相廝守。我在這次行程中最喜歡祖和羅莎娜的照片，我們跟伴侶們見面時，習慣問他們有沒有一張結婚時的舊照片，此時，他們不約而同從自己的錢包取出同一樣的照片來。我心想有什麼美得過照片裡那對剛墮入愛河的年輕戀人，或者兩人經過歲月仍保留這張照片的心意呢？謝謝大家（掌聲）
