Talk	en	zh-tw
allan_savory_how_to_green_the_world_s_deserts_and_reverse_climate_change	"The most massive tsunami perfect storm is bearing down upon us. This perfect storm is mounting a grim reality, increasingly grim reality, and we are facing that reality with the full belief that we can solve our problems with technology, and that's very understandable. Now, this perfect storm that we are facing is the result of our rising population, rising towards 10 billion people, land that is turning to desert, and, of course, climate change. Now there's no question about it at all: we will only solve the problem of replacing fossil fuels with technology. But fossil fuels, carbon — coal and gas — are by no means the only thing that is causing climate change. Desertification is a fancy word for land that is turning to desert, and this happens only when we create too much bare ground. There's no other cause. And I intend to focus on most of the world's land that is turning to desert. But I have for you a very simple message that offers more hope than you can imagine. We have environments where humidity is guaranteed throughout the year. On those, it is almost impossible to create vast areas of bare ground. No matter what you do, nature covers it up so quickly. And we have environments where we have months of humidity followed by months of dryness, and that is where desertification is occurring. Fortunately, with space technology now, we can look at it from space, and when we do, you can see the proportions fairly well. Generally, what you see in green is not desertifying, and what you see in brown is, and these are by far the greatest areas of the Earth. About two thirds, I would guess, of the world is desertifying. I took this picture in the Tihamah Desert while 25 millimeters — that's an inch of rain — was falling. Think of it in terms of drums of water, each containing 200 liters. Over 1,000 drums of water fell on every hectare of that land that day. The next day, the land looked like this. Where had that water gone? Some of it ran off as flooding, but most of the water that soaked into the soil simply evaporated out again, exactly as it does in your garden if you leave the soil uncovered. Now, because the fate of water and carbon are tied to soil organic matter, when we damage soils, you give off carbon. Carbon goes back to the atmosphere. Now you're told over and over, repeatedly, that desertification is only occurring in arid and semi-arid areas of the world, and that tall grasslands like this one in high rainfall are of no consequence. But if you do not look at grasslands but look down into them, you find that most of the soil in that grassland that you've just seen is bare and covered with a crust of algae, leading to increased runoff and evaporation. That is the cancer of desertification that we do not recognize till its terminal form. Now we know that desertification is caused by livestock, mostly cattle, sheep and goats, overgrazing the plants, leaving the soil bare and giving off methane. Almost everybody knows this, from nobel laureates to golf caddies, or was taught it, as I was. Now, the environments like you see here, dusty environments in Africa where I grew up, and I loved wildlife, and so I grew up hating livestock because of the damage they were doing. And then my university education as an ecologist reinforced my beliefs. Well, I have news for you. We were once just as certain that the world was flat. We were wrong then, and we are wrong again. And I want to invite you now to come along on my journey of reeducation and discovery. When I was a young man, a young biologist in Africa, I was involved in setting aside marvelous areas as future national parks. Now no sooner — this was in the 1950s — and no sooner did we remove the hunting, drum-beating people to protect the animals, than the land began to deteriorate, as you see in this park that we formed. Now, no livestock were involved, but suspecting that we had too many elephants now, I did the research and I proved we had too many, and I recommended that we would have to reduce their numbers and bring them down to a level that the land could sustain. Now, that was a terrible decision for me to have to make, and it was political dynamite, frankly. So our government formed a team of experts to evaluate my research. They did. They agreed with me, and over the following years, we shot 40,000 elephants to try to stop the damage. And it got worse, not better. Loving elephants as I do, that was the saddest and greatest blunder of my life, and I will carry that to my grave. One good thing did come out of it. It made me absolutely determined to devote my life to finding solutions. When I came to the United States, I got a shock, to find national parks like this one desertifying as badly as anything in Africa. And there'd been no livestock on this land for over 70 years. And I found that American scientists had no explanation for this except that it is arid and natural. So I then began looking at all the research plots I could over the whole of the Western United States where cattle had been removed to prove that it would stop desertification, but I found the opposite, as we see on this research station, where this grassland that was green in 1961, by 2002 had changed to that situation. And the authors of the position paper on climate change from which I obtained these pictures attribute this change to ""unknown processes."" Clearly, we have never understood what is causing desertification, which has destroyed many civilizations and now threatens us globally. We have never understood it. Take one square meter of soil and make it bare like this is down here, and I promise you, you will find it much colder at dawn and much hotter at midday than that same piece of ground if it's just covered with litter, plant litter. You have changed the microclimate. Now, by the time you are doing that and increasing greatly the percentage of bare ground on more than half the world's land, you are changing macroclimate. But we have just simply not understood why was it beginning to happen 10,000 years ago? Why has it accelerated lately? We had no understanding of that. What we had failed to understand was that these seasonal humidity environments of the world, the soil and the vegetation developed with very large numbers of grazing animals, and that these grazing animals developed with ferocious pack-hunting predators. Now, the main defense against pack-hunting predators is to get into herds, and the larger the herd, the safer the individuals. Now, large herds dung and urinate all over their own food, and they have to keep moving, and it was that movement that prevented the overgrazing of plants, while the periodic trampling ensured good cover of the soil, as we see where a herd has passed. This picture is a typical seasonal grassland. It has just come through four months of rain, and it's now going into eight months of dry season. And watch the change as it goes into this long dry season. Now, all of that grass you see aboveground has to decay biologically before the next growing season, and if it doesn't, the grassland and the soil begin to die. Now, if it does not decay biologically, it shifts to oxidation, which is a very slow process, and this smothers and kills grasses, leading to a shift to woody vegetation and bare soil, releasing carbon. To prevent that, we have traditionally used fire. But fire also leaves the soil bare, releasing carbon, and worse than that, burning one hectare of grassland gives off more, and more damaging, pollutants than 6,000 cars. And we are burning in Africa, every single year, more than one billion hectares of grasslands, and almost nobody is talking about it. We justify the burning, as scientists, because it does remove the dead material and it allows the plants to grow. Now, looking at this grassland of ours that has gone dry, what could we do to keep that healthy? And bear in mind, I'm talking of most of the world's land now. Okay? We cannot reduce animal numbers to rest it more without causing desertification and climate change. We cannot burn it without causing desertification and climate change. What are we going to do? There is only one option, I'll repeat to you, only one option left to climatologists and scientists, and that is to do the unthinkable, and to use livestock, bunched and moving, as a proxy for former herds and predators, and mimic nature. There is no other alternative left to mankind. So let's do that. So on this bit of grassland, we'll do it, but just in the foreground. We'll impact it very heavily with cattle to mimic nature, and we've done so, and look at that. All of that grass is now covering the soil as dung, urine and litter or mulch, as every one of the gardeners amongst you would understand, and that soil is ready to absorb and hold the rain, to store carbon, and to break down methane. And we did that, without using fire to damage the soil, and the plants are free to grow. When I first realized that we had no option as scientists but to use much-vilified livestock to address climate change and desertification, I was faced with a real dilemma. How were we to do it? We'd had 10,000 years of extremely knowledgeable pastoralists bunching and moving their animals, but they had created the great manmade deserts of the world. Then we'd had 100 years of modern rain science, and that had accelerated desertification, as we first discovered in Africa and then confirmed in the United States, and as you see in this picture of land managed by the federal government. Clearly more was needed than bunching and moving the animals, and humans, over thousands of years, had never been able to deal with nature's complexity. But we biologists and ecologists had never tackled anything as complex as this. So rather than reinvent the wheel, I began studying other professions to see if anybody had. And I found there were planning techniques that I could take and adapt to our biological need, and from those I developed what we call holistic management and planned grazing, a planning process, and that does address all of nature's complexity and our social, environmental, economic complexity. Today, we have young women like this one teaching villages in Africa how to put their animals together into larger herds, plan their grazing to mimic nature, and where we have them hold their animals overnight — we run them in a predator-friendly manner, because we have a lot of lands, and so on — and where they do this and hold them overnight to prepare the crop fields, we are getting very great increases in crop yield as well. Let's look at some results. This is land close to land that we manage in Zimbabwe. It has just come through four months of very good rains it got that year, and it's going into the long dry season. But as you can see, all of that rain, almost of all it, has evaporated from the soil surface. Their river is dry despite the rain just having ended, and we have 150,000 people on almost permanent food aid. Now let's go to our land nearby on the same day, with the same rainfall, and look at that. Our river is flowing and healthy and clean. It's fine. The production of grass, shrubs, trees, wildlife, everything is now more productive, and we have virtually no fear of dry years. And we did that by increasing the cattle and goats 400 percent, planning the grazing to mimic nature and integrate them with all the elephants, buffalo, giraffe and other animals that we have. But before we began, our land looked like that. This site was bare and eroding for over 30 years regardless of what rain we got. Okay? Watch the marked tree and see the change as we use livestock to mimic nature. This was another site where it had been bare and eroding, and at the base of the marked small tree, we had lost over 30 centimeters of soil. Okay? And again, watch the change just using livestock to mimic nature. And there are fallen trees in there now, because the better land is now attracting elephants, etc. This land in Mexico was in terrible condition, and I've had to mark the hill because the change is so profound. (Applause) I began helping a family in the Karoo Desert in the 1970s turn the desert that you see on the right there back to grassland, and thankfully, now their grandchildren are on the land with hope for the future. And look at the amazing change in this one, where that gully has completely healed using nothing but livestock mimicking nature, and once more, we have the third generation of that family on that land with their flag still flying. The vast grasslands of Patagonia are turning to desert as you see here. The man in the middle is an Argentinian researcher, and he has documented the steady decline of that land over the years as they kept reducing sheep numbers. They put 25,000 sheep in one flock, really mimicking nature now with planned grazing, and they have documented a 50-percent increase in the production of the land in the first year. We now have in the violent Horn of Africa pastoralists planning their grazing to mimic nature and openly saying it is the only hope they have of saving their families and saving their culture. Ninety-five percent of that land can only feed people from animals. I remind you that I am talking about most of the world's land here that controls our fate, including the most violent region of the world, where only animals can feed people from about 95 percent of the land. What we are doing globally is causing climate change as much as, I believe, fossil fuels, and maybe more than fossil fuels. But worse than that, it is causing hunger, poverty, violence, social breakdown and war, and as I am talking to you, millions of men, women and children are suffering and dying. And if this continues, we are unlikely to be able to stop the climate changing, even after we have eliminated the use of fossil fuels. I believe I've shown you how we can work with nature at very low cost to reverse all this. We are already doing so on about 15 million hectares on five continents, and people who understand far more about carbon than I do calculate that, for illustrative purposes, if we do what I am showing you here, we can take enough carbon out of the atmosphere and safely store it in the grassland soils for thousands of years, and if we just do that on about half the world's grasslands that I've shown you, we can take us back to pre-industrial levels, while feeding people. I can think of almost nothing that offers more hope for our planet, for your children, and their children, and all of humanity. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you, Chris. Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have, and I'm sure everyone here has, A) a hundred questions, B) wants to hug you. I'm just going to ask you one quick question. When you first start this and you bring in a flock of animals, it's desert. What do they eat? How does that part work? How do you start? Allan Savory: Well, we have done this for a long time, and the only time we have ever had to provide any feed is during mine reclamation, where it's 100 percent bare. But many years ago, we took the worst land in Zimbabwe, where I offered a £5 note in a hundred-mile drive if somebody could find one grass in a hundred-mile drive, and on that, we trebled the stocking rate, the number of animals, in the first year with no feeding, just by the movement, mimicking nature, and using a sigmoid curve, that principle. It's a little bit technical to explain here, but just that. CA: Well, I would love to — I mean, this such an interesting and important idea. The best people on our blog are going to come and talk to you and try and — I want to get more on this that we could share along with the talk.AS: Wonderful. CA: That is an astonishing talk, truly an astonishing talk, and I think you heard that we all are cheering you on your way. Thank you so much.AS: Well, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. (Applause)"	一場最大規模厲害的海嘯風暴正臨頭痛擊我們這場厲害的風暴正造成嚴峻的事實日益嚴峻的事實而我們面對這事實的態度是全然地相信我們可以用科技解決這個問題而這是非常可以理解的那麼，我們面對的這場厲害風暴是我們人口增加的結果攀升至近百億的人口土地變成沙漠當然，還有氣候變遷 那麼，無庸置疑的我們只能以科技代替石化燃料以解決這個問題但石化燃料、碳——煤及石油——絕不是導致氣候變遷的唯一理由 沙漠化是形容土地變成沙漠的華麗名詞而這種情況是因為我們造出太多裸露的土地沒有其他的原因了而我刻意要把重點放在全球那些變成沙漠的土地 但我要提出一個非常簡單的方法能提供更多超乎想像的希望我們有終年溼氣不斷的環境在這些地方，幾乎不可能產生大面積裸露土壤無論你怎麼做大自然都能快速覆蓋它而我們也有這樣的環境是我們有幾個月的濕氣然後接著是好幾個月的乾旱而這就是沙漠化發生之處幸運的是，現在因著太空科技我們可以從太空觀察它如此做，我們相當能清楚地看見比例一般來說，你所見綠色之處就是沒有沙漠化的地方棕色處則是發生沙漠化的地方這些是迄今世上最大的幾處我猜，大約三分之二的全球土地正經歷沙漠化 我在提哈馬沙漠拍了這張照片當時降雨量為25公釐大約是一英寸的雨量以汽油桶裝水來想像一下每桶可裝二百公升的水那天，那塊地每公頃上降下了超過一千桶的水但隔天，那塊地看起來變成這樣那些水都去了哪裡？有些變成了溢流跑掉了但大部分浸入土裡的水就只是再蒸發掉了完全就像你家花園的情況一樣如果你讓花園土壤裸露那麼，因為水及碳的循環與土壤有機質息息相關當我們破壞了土壤，你就釋放了碳碳會回到大氣層 你一遍又一遍地聽到人再三地說沙漠化只能發生在地球的乾旱及半乾旱氣候區而像這樣的高草地因降雨量高，不會發生這現象但是如果你不看其上之草只看其下的土壤你會發現你剛剛所見的草原其土壤都裸露並被苔原覆蓋造成逕流增加及水分蒸發那就是我們未能早期發現的沙漠化惡瘤，直到它已惡化到末期 現在我們知道沙漠化是因家畜造成大部分是養牛、綿羊及山羊過度放牧造成植被無法復原使得土壤裸露並釋放甲烷幾乎大家都知道這個現象從諾貝爾獎得主到高爾夫球桿弟或者至少你被教導過，像我一樣你在這張圖看到的塵土飛揚的環境，那是我的家鄉非洲我很愛野生動物所以我長大後非常恨惡家畜因為牠們造成許多破壞我的大學教育讓我成為生物學者更加堅固了我的信仰 但是，我要告訴你我們曾經如此堅信世界是平的然後發現我們錯了現在我們發現我們又錯了我要邀請你與我一同走過我被再教育及重新發現的旅程 當我還很年輕，在非洲還是一個沒經驗的生物學家時我參與一項計畫，要把幾片壯麗的土地預留成未來的國家公園沒多久──這是1950年代沒多久，我們就把一群以狩獵敲鼓為生的人移居以保護動物然後這塊地的情況就開始惡化就像你看到的這個我們弄出來的公園一樣那麼，雖然沒有家畜了但我們懷疑有太多大象我做了個研究證明的確如此所以我建議我們要降低其數目且要降到這片土地可以自給自足的水平對我而言那是個不得不的可怕決定而老實說也是政治炸彈所以我們的政府組了一個專家團隊來評估我的研究他們的確做了，也與我持相同意見所以接下來幾年我們射殺了四萬頭大象試圖停止土地破壞然而事情變得更糟，沒有更好我是如此愛著大象那真是我一生中最難過也是最大的失誤終其一生我都將懷著悔恨但痛定思痛，還是有件好事它讓我矢志不移要畢生投入以找出解決方案 當我到美國時我很震驚發現像這樣的國家公園其沙漠化的程度就跟非洲的一樣糟而且這片土地已超過70年的時間沒有家畜而且我發現美國科學家除了說它是乾旱及自然現象外對此沒有任何解釋所以我開始在我能找到的針對美西的研究報告中尋找牛隻遷移真的可以停止沙漠化的證明但我發現的是完全相反的證明如同我們在這個研究站看到的1961年這片草地還是綠油油一片但到了2002年已經變成這樣而寫這篇氣候變遷意見書的作者我就是從那裏拿到這些照片把此改變歸因於未知現象 很明顯我們並不了解沙漠化的原因而此現象已經毀滅了許多文明而現在正對我們產生全球性威脅我們從來沒有了解過這件事把一平方公尺的土壤像這樣光禿禿攤平在這裡我保證你會發現，這片土與僅由枯枝落葉覆蓋住的同樣土壤在破曉時冷得多，在日正當中時熱得多只要枯枝落葉就好你就改變了微氣候所以，當你這麼做並在超過全球一半的土地大幅增加裸露地面的百分比時你就在改變總體氣候但我們就是不了解為什麼這現象於一萬年前開始發生？為什麼最近大幅加快？我們對其一無所知 我們並沒有了解到這些隨季節改變濕度的環境其土壤及植被的發展與非常大數目的放牧有關也沒有了解到這些放牧動物與兇猛的群體狩獵掠食動物息息相關那麼，要對抗群體狩獵掠食動物的主要方法就是集結成群而且群體愈大，個體就愈安全大群動物在其食物上排便及尿牠們還必須遷徙而也就是這個遷徙避免了過度放牧而時時遷徙確保土壤覆蓋良好就像我們看到一群動物走過後的樣子 這張照片是典型的季節性草原它剛剛經歷了四個月的雨季現在正進入為期八個月的乾季請注意看它進入長時間乾季後的改變現在，所有長在地上的草在下個生長期前都要腐爛，要不然整片草原及土壤就會開始死亡那麼，如果它沒有腐爛就會轉變成氧化作用而這是非常慢的過程而這會使草窒息死亡使原本的草地轉變成木本植被及裸露的土壤，釋放碳要避免此現象傳統的方法是使用火燒但火一樣會使土地裸露，釋放碳且更糟的是每燒一公頃的草地比六千輛車所造成的汙染跟破壞，都大上許多但我們卻每年都在非洲燒掉超過十億公頃的草原卻幾乎沒人在意身為科學家，我們辯稱燃燒能移除已死的物質讓植物能夠生長 現在，眼看著我們這片草原變成荒蕪到底我們能要怎麼做才能讓它保持健康？請記住，我現在談的是全球大部分的土地好嗎？我們不能降低動物數目以復原更多土地卻不造成沙漠化及氣候變遷我們無法燒了它卻不造成沙漠化及氣候變遷我們到底要怎麼做？只有一個選擇我再說一次，只有一個選擇留給氣象學家及科學家就是要做匪夷所思之事要用蓄養牲畜要一群一群養，還要遷徙就像之前牧群及掠食者一樣模仿大自然的運作我們沒有其他替代方案了 所以就開始做吧所以我們就在這塊草原上實行但僅限在草原前端我們放置牲畜倣效自然界運作而我們的確也做到了，看到沒現在滿滿的草覆蓋著這塊土壤因為有糞、尿、枯枝落葉及覆蓋物就像在座的園藝愛好者都能了解這個現象這片土壤已準備就緒可以吸收保留雨水可以儲存碳，可以分解甲烷我們這樣做不需用火破壞土壤而植物可以自由生長 當我第一次了解到身為科學家，我們別無選擇只能用惡名昭彰的家畜來解釋氣候變遷及沙漠化時我面對著一個真正的兩難問題我們是怎麼搞成這樣的？我們在過去一萬年有非常有知識的放牧者群集趕放動物但造成了世上大規模的人造沙漠然後我們在僅一百年的先進降雨科學發展下卻加速了沙漠化的發展就像我們首先在非洲發現的然後在美國也得到確認就如同你在這張照片看到的由聯邦政府管理的土地一樣很明顯地除了集結趕放動物我們需要做更多而人類在過去數千年從未解決過什麼大自然的複雜問題但我們生物學及生態學家也從未應付過像這樣複雜的問題所以與其閉門造車我開始研究其他領域看看有沒人有已經有解答而我發現的確有一些規劃方法是我可以拿來運用在生物學需求上的而從那裡開始，我發展出一套我們稱為整體管理規劃放牧法一種規劃流程而這的確解決了自然的複雜問題及我們社會、環境及經濟的複雜問題 今天我們有年輕女士像這位在非洲村落教導如何將動物集合成一個大牧群規劃放牧法以模仿大自然我們也讓他們集結動物在某處過夜我們不特別做保護措施讓牠們不受掠食者威脅因為我們有很多地，諸如此類的在那裡他們放牧並在那裡集結過夜就是為了讓這塊田地準備好我們也在作物產量上有大幅增加 來看一看結果這片土地很靠近我們在辛巴威管理的地它才剛剛經歷那年為期四個月的充沛雨量馬上要進入乾季但如你所見，幾乎所有的降雨都從地表蒸發儘管雨季才剛結束，河流都乾涸了而我們有十五萬人得永久依靠糧食援助現在來看一看我們在附近的那塊地，同一天同樣的降雨量，看哪！我們的河水流充沛、乾淨非常好草、灌木、樹、野生動植物的產量每樣東西的產量都更好我們幾乎不怕旱年我們以增加牛羊的量來達到此效果增加四倍有計劃的放牧以模仿自然並與大象、水牛、長頸鹿及其它我們有的動物整合在一起但在我們開始計劃前這塊土地看起來像那樣這地過去三十年不管下多少雨土壤總是光禿禿受侵蝕懂嗎？看這棵標記的樹及其變化在我們使用家畜模仿自然後這是另一個地方也是土壤裸露受侵蝕在這棵被標示的小樹的基底我們流失了超過30公分的土壤，看到嗎？再一次看看這個改變只是用家畜來模仿自然現在那裡有倒落的樹木因為改善的土地現在會吸引大象等等這片位於墨西哥的地原本狀況很糟而現在我還必須標示原本的坡地在哪因為這改變實在太深刻了 （掌聲） 我於1970年代開始幫助南非卡魯沙漠的一個家庭把你看到右手邊的這片沙漠轉回成草原值得慶幸的是，現在他們的孫輩還住在這片土地上對未來抱持希望並且看看這個驚人改變那片小峽谷已經完全復原了沒用別的，就只用了家畜模仿自然而再一次，我們看到那個家庭的第三代還留在那片土地上家族的旗子依然飄動 巴塔哥尼亞上廣闊的草原正變成沙漠，正如你在這看見的在中間那位是個阿根廷研究員他記錄了過去數年，因著他們逐年減少綿羊的數目使得那塊地逐步變壞的情況現在他們集結二萬五千頭羊成一群真的模仿自然現象，有計劃地放牧然後他們記錄到那塊地第一年的產量增加了百分之五十 現在我們在暴力頻繁的非洲之角有牧民計畫放牧模仿自然並公開地說這是他們唯一的希望能拯救他們的家庭及文化那塊地的95%只能以動物餵飽人 我要提醒各位，我在談論的是掌控着我們命運的土地包括世界上最暴力的地區在那裡約95%的土地只有靠動物能餵飽人我們在全球做的事正造成氣候變遷我相信就像石化燃料造成的一樣多可能比石化燃料還多但更糟的是，這還產生饑荒貧窮暴力、社會瓦解及戰爭而就在我對各位演講的這當下就有數百萬的男人、女人及小孩在受苦瀕臨死亡而如果這現象持續下去我們不可能停止氣候變遷即使我們停止使用石化燃料 我相信我已經讓各位看到我們如何與自然合作以非常低的成本來扭轉這一切我們已經在約一千五百萬公頃遍佈五大洲的土地上做這件事而照那些比我更瞭解碳循環的人的計算，可以清楚地說明如果我們都做了我展示給大家看的方法我們就能從大氣層吸收掉碳而且牢牢固碳在草原土壤中數千年而且如果我們能在全球約半數的草原上實施我展示給大家看的方法我們就能把排碳量減低到工業革命前的水準同時還能餵飽人群我真的想不出還有什麼能比這個給地球給大家的孩子及他們的孩子，及所有人類帶來更多希望 謝謝 （掌聲）謝謝（掌聲） 謝謝，克里斯 克里斯·安德森：謝謝。我有——而且我很確定這裡每個人都1）有上百個問題，2）想擁抱你我只要很快問一個問題當你開始做這個，而且你帶了一群動物這是沙漠！你給牠們吃什麼？這部分怎麼解決？你是怎麼開始的？ 艾倫·薩弗瑞：嗯，我們已經做了很久了我碰過唯一需要提供飼料的地方是在礦山復墾時那裡完全沒有草但很多年前，我們在辛巴威拿了一塊最糟的地我在那裡提供五英鎊獎金給在一百哩車程內能找到一根草的人在一百哩車程內而在那樣的情況，我們翻了三倍放養率增加三倍的動物數量在第一年沒有給飼料的狀態下就只靠趕動物，模仿大自然運用「S型曲線」那個理論在這很難解釋，因為有一點技術理論，但就是那樣 克：嗯，我很想知道——我是說這真的是很有意思很重要的概念我們部落格最棒的員工會找你談談還會試一下——我很想知道更多我們可以分享更多艾：沒問題。 克：真是非常驚人的演講，真的很驚人我想你也聽到了，我們都為你起立鼓掌非常謝謝你。艾：嗯，謝謝，謝謝克里斯。 （掌聲）
