Talk	en	zh-tw
allan_adams_what_the_discovery_of_gravitational_waves_means	"1.3 billion years ago, in a distant, distant galaxy, two black holes locked into a spiral, falling inexorably towards each other and collided, converting three Suns' worth of stuff into pure energy in a tenth of a second. For that brief moment in time, the glow was brighter than all the stars in all the galaxies in all of the known Universe. It was a very big bang. But they didn't release their energy in light. I mean, you know, they're black holes. All that energy was pumped into the fabric of space and time itself, making the Universe explode in gravitational waves. Let me give you a sense of the timescale at work here. 1.3 billion years ago, Earth had just managed to evolve multicellular life. Since then, Earth has made and evolved corals, fish, plants, dinosaurs, people and even — God save us — the Internet. And about 25 years ago, a particularly audacious set of people — Rai Weiss at MIT, Kip Thorne and Ronald Drever at Caltech — decided that it would be really neat to build a giant laser detector with which to search for the gravitational waves from things like colliding black holes. Now, most people thought they were nuts. But enough people realized that they were brilliant nuts that the US National Science Foundation decided to fund their crazy idea. So after decades of development, construction and imagination and a breathtaking amount of hard work, they built their detector, called LIGO: The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory. For the last several years, LIGO's been undergoing a huge expansion in its accuracy, a tremendous improvement in its detection ability. It's now called Advanced LIGO as a result. In early September of 2015, LIGO turned on for a final test run while they sorted out a few lingering details. And on September 14 of 2015, just days after the detector had gone live, the gravitational waves from those colliding black holes passed through the Earth. And they passed through you and me. And they passed through the detector. (Audio) Scott Hughes: There's two moments in my life more emotionally intense than that. One is the birth of my daughter. The other is when I had to say goodbye to my father when he was terminally ill. You know, it was the payoff of my career, basically. Everything I'd been working on — it's no longer science fiction! (Laughs) Allan Adams: So that's my very good friend and collaborator, Scott Hughes, a theoretical physicist at MIT, who has been studying gravitational waves from black holes and the signals that they could impart on observatories like LIGO, for the past 23 years. So let me take a moment to tell you what I mean by a gravitational wave. A gravitational wave is a ripple in the shape of space and time. As the wave passes by, it stretches space and everything in it in one direction, and compresses it in the other. This has led to countless instructors of general relativity doing a really silly dance to demonstrate in their classes on general relativity. ""It stretches and expands, it stretches and expands."" So the trouble with gravitational waves is that they're very weak; they're preposterously weak. For example, the waves that hit us on September 14 — and yes, every single one of you stretched and compressed under the action of that wave — when the waves hit, they stretched the average person by one part in 10 to the 21. That's a decimal place, 20 zeroes, and a one. That's why everyone thought the LIGO people were nuts. Even with a laser detector five kilometers long — and that's already crazy — they would have to measure the length of those detectors to less than one thousandth of the radius of the nucleus of an atom. And that's preposterous. So towards the end of his classic text on gravity, LIGO co-founder Kip Thorne described the hunt for gravitational waves as follows: He said, ""The technical difficulties to be surmounted in constructing such detectors are enormous. But physicists are ingenious, and with the support of a broad lay public, all obstacles will surely be overcome."" Thorne published that in 1973, 42 years before he succeeded. Now, coming back to LIGO, Scott likes to say that LIGO acts like an ear more than it does like an eye. I want to explain what that means. Visible light has a wavelength, a size, that's much smaller than the things around you, the features on people's faces, the size of your cell phone. And that's really useful, because it lets you make an image or a map of the things around you, by looking at the light coming from different spots in the scene about you. Sound is different. Audible sound has a wavelength that can be up to 50 feet long. And that makes it really difficult — in fact, in practical purposes, impossible — to make an image of something you really care about. Your child's face. Instead, we use sound to listen for features like pitch and tone and rhythm and volume to infer a story behind the sounds. That's Alice talking. That's Bob interrupting. Silly Bob. So, the same is true of gravitational waves. We can't use them to make simple images of things out in the Universe. But by listening to changes in the amplitude and frequency of those waves, we can hear the story that those waves are telling. And at least for LIGO, the frequencies that it can hear are in the audio band. So if we convert the wave patterns into pressure waves and air, into sound, we can literally hear the Universe speaking to us. For example, listening to gravity, just in this way, can tell us a lot about the collision of two black holes, something my colleague Scott has spent an awful lot of time thinking about. (Audio) SH: If the two black holes are non-spinning, you get a very simple chirp: whoop! If the two bodies are spinning very rapidly, I have that same chirp, but with a modulation on top of it, so it kind of goes: whir, whir, whir! It's sort of the vocabulary of spin imprinted on this waveform. AA: So on September 14, 2015, a date that's definitely going to live in my memory, LIGO heard this: [Whirring sound] So if you know how to listen, that is the sound of — (Audio) SH: ... two black holes, each of about 30 solar masses, that were whirling around at a rate comparable to what goes on in your blender. AA: It's worth pausing here to think about what that means. Two black holes, the densest thing in the Universe, one with a mass of 29 Suns and one with a mass of 36 Suns, whirling around each other 100 times per second before they collide. Just imagine the power of that. It's fantastic. And we know it because we heard it. That's the lasting importance of LIGO. It's an entirely new way to observe the Universe that we've never had before. It's a way that lets us hear the Universe and hear the invisible. And there's a lot out there that we can't see — in practice or even in principle. So supernova, for example: I would love to know why very massive stars explode in supernovae. They're very useful; we've learned a lot about the Universe from them. The problem is, all the interesting physics happens in the core, and the core is hidden behind thousands of kilometers of iron and carbon and silicon. We'll never see through it, it's opaque to light. Gravitational waves go through iron as if it were glass — totally transparent. The Big Bang: I would love to be able to explore the first few moments of the Universe, but we'll never see them, because the Big Bang itself is obscured by its own afterglow. With gravitational waves, we should be able to see all the way back to the beginning. Perhaps most importantly, I'm positive that there are things out there that we've never seen that we may never be able to see and that we haven't even imagined — things that we'll only discover by listening. And in fact, even in that very first event, LIGO found things that we didn't expect. Here's my colleague and one of the key members of the LIGO collaboration, Matt Evans, my colleague at MIT, addressing exactly that: (Audio) Matt Evans: The kinds of stars which produce the black holes that we observed here are the dinosaurs of the Universe. They're these massive things that are old, from prehistoric times, and the black holes are kind of like the dinosaur bones with which we do this archeology. So it lets us really get a whole nother angle on what's out there in the Universe and how the stars came to be, and in the end, of course, how we came to be out of this whole mess. AA: Our challenge now is to be as audacious as possible. Thanks to LIGO, we know how to build exquisite detectors that can listen to the Universe, to the rustle and the chirp of the cosmos. Our job is to dream up and build new observatories — a whole new generation of observatories — on the ground, in space. I mean, what could be more glorious than listening to the Big Bang itself? Our job now is to dream big. Dream with us. Thank you. (Applause)"	十三億年前，在一個極為遙遠的星系中，有兩個黑洞陷入漩渦，無法抗拒地往對方靠近，最終相撞。在僅僅十分之一秒之內，將接近三個太陽的物質轉換成了純粹的能量。在那短暫的時間裡，發出的光芒比我們所知的宇宙中所有星系中的任何星球都要明亮。那是一場大 爆炸。 但它們並未將能量以光的形式釋放。我是說，你知道的，它們是黑洞嘛。所有能量被壓縮進時空之中，並以重力波的形式爆炸，擴及整個宇宙。 讓我帶你們了解這個過程的時間軸。十三億年前，地球上才剛要形成多細胞生命。從那時起，地球上已誕生並孕育珊瑚、魚類、植物、恐龍、人類，以及....感謝老天...網路。大約 25 年前，一群膽子特別大的人：麻省理工學院的Rai Weiss 、加州理工學院的 Kip Thorne 和 Ronald Drever認為建造一台巨大的雷射探測儀，並用來搜尋來自黑洞碰撞合併之類事件的重力波，會是件非常美妙的事情。 大多數人覺得他們瘋了。但已有足夠的人了解他們是很傑出的瘋子，因此美國國家科學基金會決定資助這個瘋狂的點子。所以經過了幾十年的發展、建造、想像，和數量驚人的艱苦工作後，他們打造出自己的探測儀，取名為「LIGO」：雷射干涉儀重力波觀測天文台。 在過去幾年間，LIGO 的精準度經過大幅改善，在其偵測能力上有了卓越的進步。因此，它現在被稱為「進階版 LIGO」。 在 2015 年 9 月上旬， LIGO 啟動進入最終測試階段，人們找出了一些仍待解決的細節。然後在 2015 年 9 月 14 號，就在探測儀啟動幾天後，來自那些碰撞的黑洞的重力波經過了地球。它們穿過你和我。它們穿過了探測儀。 （語音） Scott Hughes：在我生命中，只有兩個時刻比那時更讓我情緒激動。一是我女兒出生。另一個則是必須和我重症末期的父親道別。你懂的，這基本上是我職涯顛峰時刻，我所努力耕耘的一切－－終於不再是科幻小說了！（笑聲） Allan Adams：這是我的好友兼夥伴，Scott Hughes，麻省理工學院的理論物理學家，他研究來自黑洞的重力波，以及他們從 LIGO 等觀測器材上得知的信號，長達 23 年。 讓我花一些時間解釋何謂「重力波」。重力波是一種處於時間與空間中的波。當重力波經過，它會從一個方向伸展空間，和空間中的所有事物。並在另一側壓縮空間。這使得無數講述重力波的講師在課堂上瘋狂亂舞，只為模擬重力波。「它伸展然後膨脹、它伸展然後膨脹。」 關於重力波的問題是，它們非常的微弱；它們極不合理的微弱。以 9 月 14 號襲擊我們的重力波為例。還有當然，你們每個人都在那個波的影響下伸展並壓縮。當那陣波襲來，它們平均將每個人伸長了 10 的 21 次方分之一倍。也就是小數點後接上 20 個零後再接上1。這就是為什麼大家都覺得開發 LIGO 的人是瘋子。即使雷射探測儀有五公里長，這已經很瘋狂了。他們還得用比原子核半徑的千分之一更小的單位來測量這些探測儀的長度。這太荒謬了！ 因此，在 LIGO 協同開發者 Kip Thorne撰寫的重力波經典論文結尾，他如此形容捕獲重力波的行動，他說：「要建造出這樣的探測儀，必須克服的困難，無以計數。但物理學家具有高度創造力，以及有了來自廣大民眾的支持，一切障礙都能被克服。」Thorne 在 1973 年發表此文章，距離他成功還有 42 年。 現在，回到 LIGO 上，Scott 喜歡說 LIGO 的角色比較像耳朵，而非眼睛。我解釋一下這是什麼意思。可見光的波長、尺寸遠遠小於你身邊的東西，小於人們臉上的器官、你的手機大小。這對我們來說很方便，因為藉由觀察來自你所處環境中不同位置的光線，你可以建立週圍物品的景象或地圖。 聲音就不同了。可聽見的聲音波長最長可達 50 呎(15.24m)。這使得要為你所關注的物品建立影像變得很困難。事實上，實務運用是不可能的。例如你孩子的臉。取而代之的是，我們運用聲音來聆聽音高、聲調、節奏和音量等特性，以推論這些聲音背後的故事。那是 Alice 在說話。那是 Bob 在插嘴。笨蛋 Bob。 重力波也是一樣的。我們無法運用它們來建立宇宙中事物的簡單影像，但藉由聆聽這些波中幅度和頻率的變化，我們可以聽出這些波訴說的故事。至少對 LIGO 來說，它能聽見的頻率位於音頻帶內。因此如果我們將波的圖形轉換成壓力波和氣壓、轉換成聲音，我們就能聽見宇宙正在對我們說話。例如，用這種方法「聆聽」重力波，它可以告訴我們關於兩個黑洞相互碰撞的事，這是我同事 Scott 花了非常多時間在思考的事情。 （錄音）SH：如果兩個黑洞並未旋轉，你會得到一聲簡單的音調：呼！如果兩個物體非常快速的旋轉，我得到一樣的聲音，但會有所不同，所以聽起來會像是：呼咿呼咿呼咿！這有點像是這類旋轉在波形圖上留下的字彙。 AA：在 2015 年 9 月 14 日，這個日期肯定會深深烙印在我回憶中，LIGO 聽到這個聲音： （呼咿聲） 如果你知道怎麼聆聽，這個聲音是 （錄音）SH：……兩個黑洞，兩者皆約 30倍太陽質量大小，以與你家攪拌機差不多的速度旋轉著。 AA：這值得我們暫停一下，思考這意味著什麼。兩個黑洞，宇宙中密度最高的事物，一個是29倍的太陽質量、另一個則是36倍太陽質量，在它們碰撞前，以每秒 100 圈的速度繞著彼此旋轉。想想看這其中的能量。太奇妙了。我們會知道這件事，則是因為我們聽見了。 這是 LIGO 長存的重要性。這是觀測宇宙的全新方法，前所未見。這方法讓我們能聆聽宇宙，及那些無形的東西。 外頭有許多我們看不見的東西。無論是實務，甚至原理。以超新星為例：我想要知道為什麼巨大的星球會爆炸形成超新星。超新星很有用，我們觀察它們，學到許多有關宇宙的事。問題是，所有有趣的物理現象都發生在核心中，而核心藏身在數千公尺厚的鐵、碳和矽之內。我們永遠無法看見裡面，因為它是不透光的。重力波則穿透了鐵，彷彿它是玻璃般完全透明。大霹靂。我希望能夠探索宇宙形成的起初幾秒，但我們永遠無法看見，因為大霹靂被己身的餘暉所遮蔽了。藉由重力波，我們應該能一路追溯回源頭。也許最重要的是，我確定在地球外頭有我們從未見過、我們也許永遠無法見到，以及我們從未能想像的事物。那些事物，我們只能靠聆聽去發現。 事實上，即使在非常早期，LIGO 曾發現出乎我們意料之外的東西。這是我同事，和 LIGO合作團隊中的一位關鍵人物：Matt Evans，我在麻省理工學院的同事，他說： （錄音）Matt Evans：我們觀察到的那種能產生黑洞的星球，是宇宙中的恐龍。它們是那些古老、來自史前時代的巨大東西，而黑洞就像是恐龍化石，我們所做的則是考古學。這讓我們得到另一個全新視角來了解宇宙中存在什麼東西，以及星球如何轉變，還有當然，我們自己在這團混沌中的出路。 AA：我們目前的挑戰是要盡可能地大膽、創新。感謝 LIGO，我們懂得如何建造精細的探測儀以聆聽宇宙，聆聽時空中的沙沙聲和啾啾聲。我們工作是要擁有夢想，並在地表上、在太空中打造新的天文臺，一整個新世代的天文臺。我是指，還有什麼事會比聆聽大霹靂本身更偉大呢？我們當下的任務就是要盡情作夢。跟我們一起作夢吧。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
