Talk	en	zh-tw
alyssa_monks_how_loss_helped_one_artist_find_beauty_in_imperfection	"I'm a painter. I make large-scale figurative paintings, which means I paint people like this. But I'm here tonight to tell you about something personal that changed my work and my perspective. It's something we all go through, and my hope is that my experience may be helpful to somebody. To give you some background on me, I grew up the youngest of eight. Yes, eight kids in my family. I have six older brothers and a sister. To give you a sense of what that's like, when my family went on vacation, we had a bus. (Laughter) My supermom would drive us all over town to our various after-school activities — not in the bus. We had a regular car, too. She would take me to art classes, and not just one or two. She took me to every available art class from when I was eight to 16, because that's all I wanted to do. She even took a class with me in New York City. Now, being the youngest of eight, I learned a few survival skills. Rule number one: don't let your big brother see you do anything stupid. So I learned to be quiet and neat and careful to follow the rules and stay in line. But painting was where I made the rules. That was my private world. By 14, I knew I really wanted to be an artist. My big plan was to be a waitress to support my painting. So I continued honing my skills. I went to graduate school and I got an MFA, and at my first solo show, my brother asked me, ""What do all these red dots mean next to the paintings?"" Nobody was more surprised than me. The red dots meant that the paintings were sold and that I'd be able to pay my rent with painting. Now, my apartment had four electrical outlets, and I couldn't use a microwave and a toaster at the same time, but still, I could pay my rent. So I was very happy. Here's a painting from back around that time. I needed it to be as realistic as possible. It had to be specific and believable. This was the place where I was isolated and in total control. Since then, I've made a career of painting people in water. Bathtubs and showers were the perfect enclosed environment. It was intimate and private, and water was this complicated challenge that kept me busy for a decade. I made about 200 of these paintings, some of them six to eight feet, like this one. For this painting, I mixed flour in with the bathwater to make it cloudy and I floated cooking oil on the surface and stuck a girl in it, and when I lit it up, it was so beautiful I couldn't wait to paint it. I was driven by this kind of impulsive curiosity, always looking for something new to add: vinyl, steam, glass. I once put all this Vaseline in my head and hair just to see what that would look like. Don't do that. (Laughter) So it was going well. I was finding my way. I was eager and motivated and surrounded by artists, always going to openings and events. I was having some success and recognition and I moved into an apartment with more than four outlets. My mom and I would stay up very late talking about our latest ideas and inspiring each other. She made beautiful pottery. I have a friend named Bo who made this painting of his wife and I dancing by the ocean, and he called it ""The Light Years."" I asked him what that meant, and he said, ""Well, that's when you've stepped into adulthood, you're no longer a child, but you're not yet weighed down by the responsibilities of life."" That was it. It was the light years. On October 8, 2011, the light years came to an end. My mom was diagnosed with lung cancer. It had spread to her bones, and it was in her brain. When she told me this, I fell to my knees. I totally lost it. And when I got myself together and I looked at her, I realized, this isn't about me. This is about figuring out how to help her. My father is a doctor, and so we had a great advantage having him in charge, and he did a beautiful job taking care of her. But I, too, wanted to do everything I could to help, so I wanted to try everything. We all did. I researched alternative medicines, diets, juicing, acupuncture. Finally, I asked her, ""Is this what you want me to do?"" And she said, ""No."" She said, ""Pace yourself. I'm going to need you later."" She knew what was happening, and she knew what the doctors and the experts and the internet didn't know: how she wanted to go through this. I just needed to ask her. I realized that if I tried to fix it, I would miss it. So I just started to be with her, whatever that meant and whatever situation came up, just really listen to her. If before I was resisting, then now I was surrendering, giving up trying to control the uncontrollable and just being there in it with her. Time slowed down, and the date was irrelevant. We developed a routine. Early each morning I would crawl into bed with her and sleep with her. My brother would come for breakfast and we'd be so glad to hear his car coming up the driveway. So I'd help her up and take both her hands and help her walk to the kitchen. She had this huge mug she made she loved to drink her coffee out of, and she loved Irish soda bread for breakfast. Afterwards was the shower, and she loved this part. She loved the warm water, so I made this as indulgent as I could, like a spa. My sister would help sometimes. We had warm towels and slippers ready immediately so she never got cold for a second. I'd blow-dry her hair. My brothers would come in the evenings and bring their kids, and that was the highlight of her day. Over time, we started to use a wheelchair, and she didn't want to eat so much, and she used the tiniest little teacup we could find to drink her coffee. I couldn't support her myself anymore, so we hired an aide to help me with the showers. These simple daily activities became our sacred ritual, and we repeated them day after day as the cancer grew. It was humbling and painful and exactly where I wanted to be. We called this time ""the beautiful awful."" She died on October 26, 2012. It was a year and three weeks after her diagnosis. She was gone. My brothers, sister, and father and I all came together in this supportive and attentive way. It was as though our whole family dynamic and all our established roles vanished and we were just all together in this unknown, feeling the same thing and taking care of each other. I'm so grateful for them. As someone who spends most of my time alone in a studio working, I had no idea that this kind of connection could be so important, so healing. This was the most important thing. It was what I always wanted. So after the funeral, it was time for me to go back to my studio. So I packed up my car and I drove back to Brooklyn, and painting is what I've always done, so that's what I did. And here's what happened. It's like a release of everything that was unraveling in me. That safe, very, very carefully rendered safe place that I created in all my other paintings, it was a myth. It didn't work. And I was afraid, because I didn't want to paint anymore. So I went into the woods. I thought, I'll try that, going outside. I got my paints, and I wasn't a landscape painter, but I wasn't really much of any kind of painter at all, so I had no attachment, no expectation, which allowed me to be reckless and free. I actually left one of these wet paintings outside overnight next to a light in the woods. By the morning it was lacquered with bugs. But I didn't care. It didn't matter. It didn't matter. I took all these paintings back to my studio, and scraped them, and carved into them, and poured paint thinner on them, put more paint on top, drew on them. I had no plan, but I was watching what was happening. This is the one with all the bugs in it. I wasn't trying to represent a real space. It was the chaos and the imperfections that were fascinating me, and something started to happen. I got curious again. This is another one from the woods. There was a caveat now, though. I couldn't be controlling the paint like I used to. It had to be about implying and suggesting, not explaining or describing. And that imperfect, chaotic, turbulent surface is what told the story. I started to be as curious as I was when I was a student. So the next thing was I wanted to put figures in these paintings, people, and I loved this new environment, so I wanted to have both people and this atmosphere. When the idea hit me of how to do this, I got kind of nauseous and dizzy, which is really just adrenaline, probably, but for me it's a really good sign. And so now I want to show you what I've been working on. It's something I haven't shown yet, and it's like a preview, I guess, of my upcoming show, what I have so far. Expansive space instead of the isolated bathtub. I'm going outside instead of inside. Loosening control, savoring the imperfections, allowing the — allowing the imperfections. And in that imperfection, you can find a vulnerability. I could feel my deepest intention, what matters most to me, that human connection that can happen in a space where there's no resisting or controlling. I want to make paintings about that. So here's what I learned. We're all going to have big losses in our lives, maybe a job or a career, relationships, love, our youth. We're going to lose our health, people we love. These kinds of losses are out of our control. They're unpredictable, and they bring us to our knees. And so I say, let them. Fall to your knees. Be humbled. Let go of trying to change it or even wanting it to be different. It just is. And then there's space, and in that space feel your vulnerability, what matters most to you, your deepest intention. And be curious to connect to what and who is really here, awake and alive. It's what we all want. Let's take the opportunity to find something beautiful in the unknown, in the unpredictable, and even in the awful. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一名畫家，我專攻大型的形象繪畫，也就是說，我畫人物，像這樣的。但今晚我來這裏，是想和大家分享一些改變我作品和想法的私事。一些我們都會經歷的事，而我希望我的經歷能幫助到一些人。為了讓各位更了解我，我先從背景說起，我是家裏八個孩子中最小的。是的，我們家中有八個孩子。我有六個哥哥和一個姐姐。為了讓各位有更直觀的感覺，我們全家出去旅遊，開的是巴士。（笑聲）我的超人媽媽會開車載我們到城中各處，去參加各式的課後活動——不是用巴士。我們家也是有普通車的。她送我去上美術課，不僅一、兩種。在我八歲到十六歲之間，她帶我參加所有我能參加的美術課，因為我真的很喜歡美術。她甚至在紐約城和我一起上課。身為家中最小的孩子，我學會了一些生存技能。規則一：永遠別讓你哥看到你在做傻事。所以我學會了安靜與整潔、循規蹈矩並小心行事。但談到繪畫，就是我說了算。那是我的私人世界。我十四歲大的時候，就決心做一名畫家。我的偉大計劃是，去當一名女服務生來支持我的繪畫開支。我持續磨練我的技能。我去念研究院，並獲得了碩士學位，在我第一次的個人繪畫展中，我的哥哥問我，「那些有紅點在旁邊的畫是什麽意思？」當時沒有人比我更驚訝了。那些紅點代表我的畫已經賣掉了，也就是說，我有能力用繪畫來支付我的房租了。所以我住的的公寓有四個插座了，但還是沒有辦法同時使用微波爐和烤麵包機，但，至少我可以支付我的租金了。所以我很開心。這是一幅我當時的繪畫作品。我希望畫作的呈現，越真實越好，它必須具體且令人信服。它是一個讓我感到清淨、完全有主導權的地方。之後，我專攻繪畫水中的人物像。浴缸和淋浴間是與外隔絕的完美空間。令人感到親密且隱私的，而「水」這個覆雜的挑戰也讓我忙了將近十年。我大約創作了200幅這樣的作品，其中一些有6到8英寸大，就跟這幅差不多。為了要畫這幅畫，我把麵粉撒進水裡，讓水看起來有煙霧瀰漫的感覺，然後我在上面塗了一層烹飪油，然後請一位女孩進去，當我打光上去，那畫面真的太美了，我等不及想馬上畫了。我被這種沖動的好奇心所驅使，一直在尋找創作畫作的新元素：黑膠唱片、水蒸氣、玻璃。有一次我把凡士林往我頭上倒，想看看頭髮呈現的效果。千萬別那麽做...（笑聲）一切都相當順利。我找到了自己的出路，我是如此渴望、如此充滿動力，身邊圍繞著藝術家，也常常參加各種開幕式和活動。我獲得了成功和別人對我的認同，所以我搬到一個有超過四個插座的公寓裏去。我母親和我會熬夜談論最新的想法，並互相鼓勵。她做的陶器很美。我有一個叫博的朋友，他畫了一幅我和他太太在海邊跳舞的畫。他給這幅畫取名叫《光年》。我問他那是什麽意思，他回答說：「在你步入成年，不再是一個孩子，但你卻還沒有準備好扛起生命責任的那段時光。」那就是《光年》。2011年10月8日，我的《光年》結束了。我媽被診斷出了肺癌。癌細胞已經擴散到她的骨頭和大腦。當她告訴我這件事時，我跪倒了。我完全不知所措。當我整理好情緒，我注視著她，我意識到我自己不是重點，如何幫助她才是重點。我的父親是一名醫生，所以讓他負責治療有很多好處，他在照顧我媽這方面，做得很好。但是，我也想盡一切努力幫助她，所以我想嘗試各種可能。我們甚麼都做。我研究了其它備選的藥物、飲食、果汁、針灸。有一天，我問她，「這是你想讓我為你做的嗎？」她說：「不。」她說：「做你該做的，我之後會需要你的。」她知道正在發生的這一切，她還知道了醫生、專家和網絡不知道的事：她自己想要如何地經歷這一切。我只要問她就知道答案。但我知道，如果我嘗試著續續問下去，我就會失去她。所以我決定，只要守護在她身邊，不管情況變得怎樣，我只要傾聽她的想法就好。以前我會抗拒，但現在我看開了，我已經放棄嘗試去控制那些不可控的東西，只想好好地陪伴她。時間慢了下來，日期也不重要了。我們建立了一個固定的生活方式。每天早上我都會躲進她的被窩裡和她睡在一起。我哥哥會過來一起吃早餐，每當我們聽見他的車開入車道時，我們都會很開心。我會握住她的雙手，幫忙扶她起來，帶她走到廚房。她有一個這麼大的、自己做的大馬克杯，她喜歡把一大杯咖啡都喝光，她也喜歡早餐的愛爾蘭蘇打麵包。之後會去洗澡，她很喜歡洗澡。她很愛溫暖的水，我會盡量幫她放鬆，像做 spa 一樣。我的姐姐有時會來幫忙。當她洗好，我們會趕緊準備好溫暖的毛巾和拖鞋，這樣她就不會著涼。然後我會吹乾她的頭髮。到了晚上，哥哥們會帶著他們的孩子過來，那是她一天當中最精彩的部分。一段時間後，我們開始使用輪椅，她不再吃那麽多，她使用我們找來的最小茶杯來喝咖啡。我一個人已經顧不來，所以我們雇了一個助手來幫她洗澡。這些簡單的日常活動，變成我們神聖的例行公事，隨著癌症的擴散，我們日覆一日的重覆。我們很恭敬也很痛苦，但這是我想要的。我們把這段時間稱為《美麗的痛苦時光》。她在2012年10月26日過世。離她診斷出癌症一年又三個禮拜後，她離開了人間。我的哥哥們、姐姐、父親還有我，大家以這種支持和關愛的方式一起度過。雖然這是我們整個家庭的巨變，我們的付出都付之一炬，但我們仍一起面對未知的世界，感同身受，照顧彼此。我真心感激他們。身為一個把大部分時間都待在畫室的我，對這種聯繫感...這麼重要、這麼有療癒的聯繫感卻一無所知。這是相當重要的事情。這就是我一直在追尋的。葬禮之後，是時候該回到我的畫室了。我收拾好行李，開車回布魯克林，繪畫一直是我的最愛，我只會做這件事。後來發生了一件事：我感受到心裡對每樣東西的釋懷。那種安全感，那個我在其它畫作中精心創造出的安全之地，只是個神話，它不再起作用了。我很害怕，因為我不想再畫下去了。我跑到樹林裏。我在想，我得試試，去外面走走。我帶上畫具，我並非風景畫家，但當時我什麽畫家也不是，沒有歸屬感、沒有期望，這讓我可以完全自由不計後果地創作。我留了一副未乾的畫在外面過夜，把它放在樹林中的一盞路燈旁。隔天早上，蟲子都被黏在漆裏了。但我並不在意，這一點都不重要，一點都不重要。我把這些畫全都帶回我的畫室，我把它們刮花，然後把塗料稀釋劑倒在畫上，倒更多的染料在上面，在頂層作畫。我毫無計劃，但我在觀察正在發生的一切。這就是當時那幅有好多小蟲在裏面的畫。我沒有嘗試要創作真實的空間。是其中的混亂和不完美讓我著迷，隨後一些事情發生了，我的好奇心回來了。這是在樹林裏的另一幅畫。不過現在多了一份解釋。我無法像以前一樣去控制我所畫的。它需要暗示、啟發，而非解釋、描述。而那不完美、混沌、混亂的表面向我們講述了故事的經過。我開始變得好奇，就像我學生時代那樣。所以，我開始想把人物放進到這些繪畫當中，我喜歡這個新的環境，我希望人物和這氛圍能融為一體。當我知道如何做的時候，我卻感到了噁心和眩暈，可能只是因為腎上腺素的原因，但這對我來說，這是一個好的徵兆。所以我想向各位展示我最近的作品。這是一些我還沒來得及展示的畫作，我想，就把它當作我即將展示目前所有畫作的畫展預告吧。我用開闊的空間，替代掉孤立的浴缸。我要走出去，而非在裡面。解開控制權，品味不完整，接受那——接受那些不完整。在那些不完整中，你能找尋到脆弱。我能感受到我內心深處對我最重要的意圖，我能感受到人與人之間的連結、我能感受到無拘無束的空間。我想要對此作畫。而我學到的就是：在人生旅途中，我們都會經歷到一些重創，也許是工作、事業、關係、愛情、青春。我們會失去健康，失去我們摯愛的人。這些失去都不是我們能控制的。它們是無法預測的，它們使我們不得不向命運低頭，所以我說，隨它去吧。讓我們低頭跪下，變得謙遜。讓嘗試改變或是希望改變的心態，隨它去吧，它就是那樣。之後會有一種空間，你會在那空間中感受到你的脆弱、思考對你最重要的事、探索你心中的意圖。抱著好奇的心態，與你當下醒著、活著的人事物做連結。這就是我們所想要的。讓我們把握機會去尋找那些未知、無法預測、甚至是痛苦中的美麗事物吧！謝謝。（掌聲）
