Talk	en	zh-tw
ameera_harouda_why_i_put_myself_in_danger_to_tell_the_stories_of_gaza	"Hello. This is my first trip, first time in life I'm outside of the walls of Gaza. I'm so happy to be here. (Applause) My ambition always was to be a pilot, to fly a plane, to feel free to fly the sky, to touch the sky. But that didn't happen. Simply, I live in Gaza, there is no airport. All borders are closed on every side. We live in one of the biggest prisons in the world. The only thing I can do is just to look up to the sky. On some days, we are lucky if we have electricity for four or five hours. When it's cold, we make a fire on the front or on the roof of our homes. Sometimes we make food, too. My job in Gaza is to arrange everything for journalists who come to my homeland to tell the stories about what's going on in Gaza. Many mornings, I had to go to the border area to collect a journalist. If anything should happen to the journalist, or if the journalist decides to cover a story the government doesn't want us to cover, bad things could happen. Navigating through my country helping journalists, filmmakers, news crews, is my working life. I believe my success comes from building a relationship not only with journalists and the news crews, but also with the communities in the Gaza Strip. These communities who don't want their stories to be told, I never looked to them as stories or numbers. But like me, they are human beings. I have built up many relationships over 10 years. And guess what? This gives me the chance to get access to people, to stories that others can't. In some certain situations, I feel, as a woman, I have more power. Many male journalists in my society, they want to cover a story about drug addiction in my country. That problem started when the Gaza tunnel was being built. With the siege on Gaza, tunnels brought people all the basic needs like food, building material, other stuff we needed. But not anymore, because the Egyptian side flooded them up with water and they are not working anymore. Drugs were being smuggled, and many young people got addicted, too. In the tradition of the Palestinian society, it's forbidden for men to enter the household. So, no male journalists get the story. But I did. I have a wonderful husband, a wonderful husband who supports me despite all the criticism he gets from the society. He's at home now with my two kids, and I have another one that's growing in here. (Applause) When I'm working, I call him every two hours, and he knows if he doesn't hear from me, he should call my contact, the one who gives me access to the story, which is the one who I trust. One of the times in Gaza, during the kidnapping of the British journalist Alan Johnston, I was asked by an American magazine to set up a meeting with the kidnappers in Gaza, and I did. The journalist covering the story and I were asked to meet outside of his hotel. They came, they picked us up in a black van with black windows, they were wearing masks on that day. And they drove us away, far away in the middle of a field. They took our cell phones and we did the interview with the kidnapper outside in that field. I was so scared that day, a day I will never forget. So, why do I do what I do? I do it because I believe if I didn't, a huge part of the story about Gaza will be missing. There are some more stories I could tell you about my country. And not all of them are bad. I love my country, despite the terrible situation we live in — siege, poverty, unemployment — but there is life. There are people who are dreamers and amazing people full of energy. We have wonderful music, and a great music school. We have parkour dancers who dance in the rubble of their homes. And Gaza is the only place in the Arab world where Muslims and Christians live in strong brotherhood. (Applause) During the time of war, the hardest part for me is leaving the house early in the morning, leaving my children. I take a picture of them everyday because I never know if I will make it back to them. Being a fixer and a journalist is difficult and dangerous in Gaza. But when I hear the sound of the shelling or the sound of the bombing, I just head straight toward it, because I want to be there first, because these stories should be told. When my children were small and we heard the sound of the war, I used to tell them that they were fireworks. Now they are older, they understand. I do have terrible nightmares because of all that I witnessed during war times, especially these lifeless bodies of young children. I still remember a little girl, her name is Hala. She's the only survivor from her family. Her picture will be with me forever. I will never forget her. I'm proud that I can stand here and be here today with you. I'm proud that I can tell you stories, sad and happy, stories about my small corner of the world, Gaza. I'm proud that I am the first female fixer working in Gaza. And the funny thing is they call me Mr. Rambo in Gaza. (Laughter) I hope one day, I will get the chance to tell the stories of all other women, all other amazing women I know in my country. I hope that one day I can help other women in my country to be fixers like me. And of course sometimes, I feel I can't do this work anymore, it's just too much for me. But I remember these words: ""Don't limit your challenge, but challenge your limit. Don't allow others to stand in front of your dreams."" Thank you. (Applause)"	大家好。這是我第一次旅行，生平第一次離開加薩。我很高興來到這裡。（掌聲） 一直以來，我的志向就是成為一名飛行員，駕駛著飛機，在天空中自由翱翔、撫觸天際。但是，它並未實現。簡而言之，因我所居住的加薩並沒有機場。所有的邊境都被封閉了。我們生活在一座世界最大的監獄裏。 我唯一能做的就是仰望天空。 在某些天，如果我們幸運的話，我們會有4 - 5小時的電力供應。當天氣寒冷的時候，我們就在家門前或屋頂上生火。有時候我們也這樣做飯。在加薩，我的工作是幫來加薩採訪的記者安排好一切， 讓他們得以報導在加薩所發生的故事。許多個早晨，我需要前往邊境去接記者。如果記者發生了任何意外，或者記者決定報導政府不希望被揭露的新聞，後果將不堪設想。在我的國家中穿梭遊走去幫助記者、電影製片人、新聞團隊， 就是我工作的寫照。我相信，我的成功在於不只能和記者、新聞團隊，而且能和加薩走廊的社區團體，建立良好的關係。這些不希望他們的故事為人所知的團體，我從未只把他們當作一個故事或數字而已。像我一樣，他們是活生生的人們。在十年中，我成功的建立起許多關係。 你猜怎麼了？這讓我有機會接近人群，去獲取那些別人無法得知的故事。在某些情況下，身為女性，我感受到我擁有更多的能力。我所在的社會有很多男性記者，他們想做一個關於我們國家毒品成癮的報導。問題始於加薩隧道建造完成時。當加薩被圍困時，隧道替人們帶來了所有的生活必需品，像食品、建築材料，以及其他一些我們所需的東西。但現在已經不行了，因為埃及那端被洪水淹沒了，隧道已經失去功能。毒品走私進來，很多年輕人也上了癮。在傳統的巴勒斯坦社會中，禁止男人進入人家家裡，這就是為什麼男性記者們拿不到這個新聞，但我卻拿到了。我有個很棒的丈夫， 儘管他遭受到社會對他的批判，但仍全力支持我的好丈夫。他現在和我的兩個孩子在家中，還有另一個新的小生命，在我體內孕育著。（掌聲） 當我工作時，我每隔兩個小時就打電話給他， 而且他知道如果他沒有我的消息，他就該打電話給我的聯絡人，就是那個讓我能獲取獨家新聞、也是我所信任的人。有一次在加薩， 英國記者艾倫．強斯頓被綁架期間，一家美國的雜誌社詢問我，能否幫他們安排在加薩與綁匪會面，我做到了。採訪此次新聞的記者和我，被要求在該記者的旅館外面等候。他們開了一輛有著黑窗玻璃的全黑廂型車接走我們，那天他們戴著面罩。他們將我們帶到很遠的一片荒地中間，他們拿走了我們的手機，我們就在那兒完成了與綁匪的會面和採訪。那天我非常害怕，我永遠都無法忘記那一天。我為什麼要做這一切呢？ 因為我相信，如果我不這麼做，大部分有關加薩的故事將會消失不見。我還可以告訴你們更多關於我祖國的故事。它們不全然是負面的。我熱愛我的國家，儘管我們生活的狀況如此惡劣──被圍困，貧窮，失業......但，這裡有生命。這裡有抱持夢想和精力充沛的非凡人們。我們有美妙的音樂和非常棒的音樂學校。我們有在家中碎石上，靈活舞動的跑酷舞者。而且加薩是阿拉伯世界裡，唯一一個穆斯林教徒和基督教徒血脈相連的地方。（掌聲） 戰爭期間， 對我而言最困難的事，就是每天一大早要離開家，離開我的孩子們。我每天都給他們拍張照片，因為我不知道我是否還能再回到他們身邊。在加薩，當一名調停者與一名記者 是非常困難和危險的事。但每當我聽見砲擊聲或炸彈的爆破聲，我不加思索直接就往那裡奔去，因為我想要第一個出現在那裡，因為這些故事需要讓人知道。我的孩子還小的時候，每當我們聽到戰爭的聲音， 我都告訴他們那是煙火。現在他們長大了，他們懂了。我確實做過許多噩夢，因為在戰爭期間，我親眼目睹了許多戰事，特別是看到年輕孩子們的冰冷屍體時。我還記得其中一位小女孩，她的名字叫哈菈 。她是家裡唯一的倖存者。她的相片將伴我一生，我永遠不會忘記她。我很驕傲，今天能站在這裡與大家共聚一堂。 我很驕傲，能夠告訴你們這些悲傷和快樂的故事，在這世界上屬於我的小角落──加薩所發生的故事。我很驕傲，能夠成為加薩第一名女性調停者。有趣的是，在加薩，他們稱我為藍波先生。（笑聲） 希望有朝一日，我有機會講述其他女性的故事， 那些我所知道的，在我國家裡其他非凡的女性。希望有朝一日，我能夠幫助在我國家的其他女性成為像我一樣的調停者。當然有些時候，我也會覺得無法再繼續做下去了，我再也承受不了了。但我記得這些話：「不要為你的挑戰設限，要不斷挑戰你的極限。」別讓他人阻攔你實現夢想。謝謝。（掌聲）
