Talk	en	zh-tw
amory_lovins_a_50_year_plan_for_energy	"America's public energy conversation boils down to this question: Would you rather die of A) oil wars, or B) climate change, or C) nuclear holocaust, or D) all of the above? Oh, I missed one: or E) none of the above? That's the one we're not normally offered. What if we could make energy do our work without working our undoing? Could we have fuel without fear? Could we reinvent fire? You see, fire made us human; fossil fuels made us modern. But now we need a new fire that makes us safe, secure, healthy and durable. Let's see how. Four-fifths of the world's energy still comes from burning each year four cubic miles of the rotted remains of primeval swamp goo. Those fossil fuels have built our civilization. They've created our wealth. They've enriched the lives of billions. But they also have rising costs to our security, economy, health and environment that are starting to erode, if not outweigh their benefits. So we need a new fire. And switching from the old fire to the new fire means changing two big stories about oil and electricity, each of which puts two-fifths of the fossil carbon in the air. But they're really quite distinct. Less than one percent of our electricity is made from oil — although almost half is made from coal. Their uses are quite concentrated. Three-fourths of our oil fuel is transportation. Three-fourths of our electricity powers buildings. And the rest of both runs factories. So very efficient vehicles, buildings and factories save oil and coal, and also natural gas that can displace both of them. But today's energy system is not just inefficient, it is also disconnected, aging, dirty and insecure. So it needs refurbishment. By 2050 though, it could become efficient, connected and distributed with elegantly frugal autos, factories and buildings all relying on a modern, secure and resilient electricity system. We can eliminate our addiction to oil and coal by 2050 and use one-third less natural gas while switching to efficient use and renewable supply. This could cost, by 2050, five trillion dollars less in net present value, that is expressed as a lump sum today, than business as usual — assuming that carbon emissions and all other hidden or external costs are worth zero — a conservatively low estimate. Yet this cheaper energy system could support 158 percent bigger U.S. economy all without needing oil or coal, or for that matter nuclear energy. Moreover, this transition needs no new inventions and no acts of Congress and no new federal taxes, mandate subsidies or laws and running Washington gridlock. Let me say that again. I'm going to tell you how to get the United States completely off oil and coal, five trillion dollars cheaper with no act of Congress led by business for profit. In other words, we're going to use our most effective institutions — private enterprise co-evolving with civil society and sped by military innovation to go around our least effective institutions. And whether you care most about profits and jobs and competitive advantage or national security, or environmental stewardship and climate protection and public health, reinventing fire makes sense and makes money. General Eisenhower reputedly said that enlarging the boundaries of a tough problem makes it soluble by encompassing more options and more synergies. So in reinventing fire, we integrated all four sectors that use energy — transportation, buildings, industry and electricity — and we integrated four kinds of innovation, not just technology and policy, but also design and business strategy. Those combinations yield very much more than the sum of the parts, especially in creating deeply disruptive business opportunities. Oil costs our economy two billion dollars a day, plus another four billion dollars a day in hidden economic and military costs, raising its total cost to over a sixth of GDP. Our mobility fuel goes three-fifths to automobiles. So let's start by making autos oil free. Two-thirds of the energy it takes to move a typical car is caused by its weight. And every unit of energy you save at the wheels, by taking out weight or drag, saves seven units in the tank, because you don't have to waste six units getting the energy to the wheels. Unfortunately, over the past quarter century, epidemic obesity has made our two-ton steel cars gain weight twice as fast as we have. But today, ultralight, ultrastrong materials, like carbon fiber composites, can make dramatic weight savings snowball and can make cars simpler and cheaper to build. Lighter and more slippery autos need less force to move them, so their engines get smaller. Indeed, that sort of vehicle fitness then makes electric propulsion affordable because the batteries or fuel cells also get smaller and lighter and cheaper. So sticker prices will ultimately fall to about the same as today, while the driving cost, even from the start, is very much lower. So these innovations together can transform automakers from wringing tiny savings out of Victorian engine and seal-stamping technologies to the steeply falling costs of three linked innovations that strongly reenforce each other — namely ultralight materials, making them into structures and electric propulsion. The sales can grow and the prices fall even faster with temporary feebates, that is rebates for efficient new autos paid for by fees on inefficient ones. And just in the first two years the biggest of Europe's five feebate programs has tripled the speed of improving automotive efficiency. The resulting shift to electric autos is going to be as game-changing as shifting from typewriters to the gains in computers. Of course, computers and electronics are now America's biggest industry, while typewriter makers have vanished. So vehicle fitness opens a new automotive competitive strategy that can double the oil savings over the next 40 years, but then also make electrification affordable, and that displaces the rest of the oil. America could lead this next automotive revolution. Currently the leader is Germany. Last year, Volkswagen announced that by next year they'll be producing this carbon fiber plugin hybrid getting 230 miles a gallon. Also last year, BMW announced this carbon fiber electric car, they said that its carbon fiber is paid for by needing fewer batteries. And they said, ""We do not intend to be a typewriter maker."" Audi claimed it's going to beat them both by a year. Seven years ago, an even faster and cheaper American manufacturing technology was used to make this little carbon fiber test part, which doubles as a carbon cap. (Laughter) In one minute — and you can tell from the sound how immensely stiff and strong it is. Don't worry about dropping it, it's tougher than titanium. Tom Friedman actually whacked it as hard as he could with a sledgehammer without even scuffing it. But such manufacturing techniques can scale to automotive speed and cost with aerospace performance. They can save four-fifths of the capital needed to make autos. They can save lives because this stuff can absorb up to 12 times as much crash energy per pound as steel. If we made all of our autos this way, it would save oil equivalent to finding one and a half Saudi Arabias, or half an OPEC, by drilling in the Detroit formation, a very prospective play. And all those mega-barrels under Detroit cost an average of 18 bucks a barrel. They are all-American, carbon-free and inexhaustible. The same physics and the same business logic also apply to big vehicles. In the five years ending with 2010, Walmart saved 60 percent of the fuel per ton-mile in its giant fleet of heavy trucks through better logistics and design. But just the technological savings in heavy trucks can get to two-thirds. And combined with triple to quintuple efficiency airplanes, now on the drawing board, can save close to a trillion dollars. Also today's military revolution in energy efficiency is going to speed up all of these civilian advances in much the same way that military R&D has given us the Internet, the Global Positioning System and the jet engine and microchip industries. As we design and build vehicles better, we can also use them smarter by harnessing four powerful techniques for eliminating needless driving. Instead of just seeing the travel grow, we can use innovative pricing, charging for road infrastructure by the mile, not by the gallon. We can use some smart IT to enhance transit and enable car sharing and ride sharing. We can allow smart and lucrative growth models that help people already be near where they want to be, so they don't need to go somewhere else. And we can use smart IT to make traffic free-flowing. Together, those things can give us the same or better access with 46 to 84 percent less driving, saving another 0.4 trillion dollars, plus 0.3 trillion dollars from using trucks more productively. So 40 years hence, when you add it all up, a far more mobile U.S. economy can use no oil. Saving or displacing barrels for 25 bucks rather than buying them for over a hundred, adds up to a $4 trillion net saving counting all the hidden costs at zero. So to get mobility without oil, to phase out the oil, we can get efficient and then switch fuels. Those 125 to 240 mile-per-gallon-equivalent autos can use any mixture of hydrogen fuel cells, electricity and advanced biofuels. The trucks and planes can realistically use hydrogen or advanced biofuels. The trucks could even use natural gas. But no vehicles will need oil. And the most biofuel we might need, just three million barrels a day, can be made two-thirds from waste without displacing any cropland and without harming soil or climate. Our team speeds up these kinds of oil savings by what we call ""institutional acupuncture."" We figure out where the business logic is congested and not flowing properly, we stick little needles in it to get it flowing, working with partners like Ford and Walmart and the Pentagon. And the long transition is already well under way. In fact, three years ago mainstream analysts were starting to see peak oil, not in supply, but in demand. And Deutsche Bank even said world oil use could peak around 2016. In other words, oil is getting uncompetitive even at low prices before it becomes unavailable even at high prices. But the electrified vehicles don't need to burden the electricity grid. Rather, when smart autos exchange electricity and information through smart buildings with smart grids, they're adding to the grid valuable flexibility and storage that help the grid integrate varying solar and wind power. So the electrified autos make the auto and electricity problems easier to solve together than separately. And they also converge the oil story with our second big story, saving electricity and then making it differently. And those twin revolutions in electricity will bring to that sector more numerous and profound and diverse disruptions than any other sector, because we've got 21st century technology and speed colliding head-on with 20th and 19th century institutions, rules and cultures. Changing how we make electricity gets easier if we need less of it. Most of it now is wasted and the technologies for saving it keep improving faster than we're installing them. So the unbought efficiency resource keeps getting ever bigger and cheaper. But as efficiency in buildings and industry starts to grow faster than the economy, America's electricity use could actually shrink, even with the little extra use required for those efficient electrified autos. And we can do this just by reasonably accelerating existing trends. Over the next 40 years, buildings, which use three-quarters of the electricity, can triple or quadruple their energy productivity, saving 1.4 trillion dollars, net present value, with a 33 percent internal rate of return or in English, the savings are worth four times what they cost. And industry can accelerate too, doubling its energy productivity with a 21 percent internal rate of return. The key is a disruptive innovation that we call integrative design that often makes very big energy savings cost less than small or no savings. That is, it can give you expanding returns, not diminishing returns. That is how our 2010 retrofit is saving over two-fifths of the energy in the Empire State Building — remanufacturing those six and a half thousand windows on site into super windows that pass light, but reflect heat. plus better lights and office equipment and such cut the maximum cooling load by a third. And then renovating smaller chillers instead of adding bigger ones saved 17 million dollars of capital cost, which helped pay for the other improvements and reduce the payback to just three years. Integrative design can also increase energy savings in industry. Dow's billion-dollar efficiency investment has already returned nine billion dollars. But industry as a whole has another half-trillion dollars of energy still to save. For example, three-fifths of the world's electricity runs motors. Half of that runs pumps and fans. And those can all be made more efficient, and the motors that turn them can have their system efficiency roughly doubled by integrating 35 improvements, paying back in about a year. But first we ought to be capturing bigger, cheaper savings that are normally ignored and are not in the textbooks. For example, pumps, the biggest use of motors, move liquid through pipes. But a standard industrial pumping loop was redesigned to use at least 86 percent less energy, not by getting better pumps, but just by replacing long, thin, crooked pipes with fat, short, straight pipes. This is not about new technology, it's just rearranging our metal furniture. Of course, it also shrinks the pumping equipment and its capital costs. So what do such savings mean for the electricity that is three-fifths used in motors? Well, from the coal burned at the power plant through all these compounding losses, only a tenth of the fuel energy actually ends up coming out the pipe as flow. But now let's turn those compounding losses around backwards, and every unit of flow or friction that we save in the pipe saves 10 units of fuel cost, pollution and what Hunter Lovins calls ""global weirding"" back at the power plant. And of course, as you go back upstream, the components get smaller and therefore cheaper. Our team has lately found such snowballing energy savings in more than 30 billion dollars worth of industrial redesigns — everything from data centers and chip fabs to mines and refineries. Typically our retrofit designs save about 30 to 60 percent of the energy and pay back in a few years, while the new facility designs save 40 to 90-odd percent with generally lower capital cost. Now needing less electricity would ease and speed the shift to new sources of electricity, chiefly renewables. China leads their explosive growth and their plummeting cost. In fact, these solar power module costs have just fallen off the bottom of the chart. And Germany now has more solar workers than America has steel workers. Already in about 20 states private installers will come put those cheap solar cells on your roof with no money down and beat your utility bill. Such unregulated products could ultimately add up to a virtual utility that bypasses your electric company just as your cellphone bypassed your wireline phone company. And this sort of thing gives utility executives the heebee-jeebees and it gives venture capitalists sweet dreams. Renewables are no longer a fringe activity. For each of the past four years half of the world's new generating capacity has been renewable, mainly lately in developing countries. In 2010, renewables other than big hydro, particularly wind and solar cells, got 151 billion dollars of private investment, and they actually surpassed the total installed capacity of nuclear power in the world by adding 60 billion watts in that one year. That happens to be the same amount of solar cell capacity that the world can now make every year — a number that goes up 60 or 70 percent a year. In contrast, the net additions of nuclear capacity and coal capacity and the orders behind those keep fading because they cost too much and they have too much financial risk. In fact in this country, no new nuclear power plant has been able to raise any private construction capital, despite seven years of 100-plus percent subsidies. So how else could we replace the coal-fired power plants? Well efficiency and gas can displace them all at just below their operating cost and, combined with renewables, can displace them more than 23 times at less than their replacement cost. But we only need to replace them once. We're often told though that only coal and nuclear plants can keep the lights on, because they're 24/7, whereas wind and solar power are variable, and hence supposedly unreliable. Actually no generator is 24/7. They all break. And when a big plant goes down, you lose a thousand megawatts in milliseconds, often for weeks or months, often without warning. That is exactly why we've designed the grid to back up failed plants with working plants. And in exactly the same way, the grid can handle wind and solar power's forecastable variations. Hourly simulations show that largely or wholly renewable grids can deliver highly reliable power when they're forecasted, integrated and diversified by both type and location. And that's true both for continental areas like the U.S. or Europe and for smaller areas embedded within a larger grid. That is how, for example, four German states in 2010 were 43 to 52 percent wind powered. Portugal was 45 percent renewable powered, Denmark 36. And it's how all of Europe can shift to renewable electricity. In America, our aging, dirty and insecure power system has to be replaced anyway by 2050. And whatever we replace it with is going to cost about the same, about six trillion dollars at present value — whether we buy more of what we've got or new nuclear and so-called clean coal, or renewables that are more or less centralized. But those four futures at the same cost differ profoundly in their risks, around national security, fuel, water, finance, technology, climate and health. For example, our over-centralized grid is very vulnerable to cascading and potentially economy-shattering blackouts caused by bad space weather or other natural disasters or a terrorist attack. But that blackout risk disappears, and all of the other risks are best managed, with distributed renewables organized into local micro-grids that normally interconnect, but can stand alone at need. That is, they can disconnect fractally and then reconnect seamlessly. That approach is exactly what the Pentagon is adopting for its own power supply. They think they need that; how about the rest of us that they're defending? We want our stuff to work too. At about the same cost as business as usual, this would maximize national security, customer choice, entrepreneurial opportunity and innovation. Together, efficient use and diverse dispersed renewable supply are starting to transform the whole electricity sector. Traditionally utilities build a lot of giant coal and nuclear plants and a bunch of big gas plants and maybe a little bit of efficiency renewables. And those utilities were rewarded, as they still are in 34 states, for selling you more electricity. However, especially where regulators are now instead rewarding cutting your bills, the investments are shifting radically toward efficiency, demand response, cogeneration, renewables and ways to knit them all together reliably with less transmission and little or no bulk electricity storage. So our energy future is not fate, but choice, and that choice is very flexible. In 1976, for example, government and industry insisted that the amount of energy needed to make a dollar of GDP could never go down. And I heretically suggested it could go down several-fold. Well that's what's actually happened so far. It's fallen by half. But with today's much better technologies, more mature delivery channels and integrative design, we can do far more and even cheaper. So to solve the energy problem, we just needed to enlarge it. And the results may at first seem incredible, but as Marshall McLuhan said, ""Only puny secrets need protection. Big discoveries are protected by public incredulity."" Now combine the electricity and oil revolutions, both driven by modern efficiency, and you get the really big story: reinventing fire, where business enabled and sped by smart policies in mindful markets can lead the United States completely off oil and coal by 2050, saving 5 trillion dollars, growing the economy 2.6-fold, strengthening out national security, oh, and by the way, by getting rid of the oil and coal, reducing the fossil carbon emissions by 82 to 86 percent. Now if you like any of those outcomes, you can support reinventing fire without needing to like all of them and without needing to agree about which of them is most important. So focusing on outcomes, not motives, can turn gridlock and conflict into a unifying solution to America's energy challenge. This also turns out to be the best way to cope with global challenges — climate change, nuclear proliferation, energy insecurity, energy poverty — all of which make us less safe. Now our team at RMI helps smart companies to get unstuck and speed this journey via six sectoral initiatives, with some more hatching. Of course there's still a lot of old thinking out there too. Former oil man Maurice Strong said, ""Not all the fossils are in the fuel."" But as Edgar Woolard, who used to chair Dupont, reminds us, ""Companies hampered by old thinking won't be a problem because,"" he said,"" they simply won't be around long-term."" I've described not just a once-in-a-civilization business opportunity, but one of the most profound transitions in the history of our species. We humans are inventing a new fire, not dug from below, but flowing from above; not scarce, but bountiful; not local, but everywhere; not transient, but permanent; not costly, but free. And but for a little transitional tail of natural gas and a bit of biofuel grown in ways that sustain and endure, this new fire is flameless. Efficiently used, it really can do our work without working our undoing. Each of you owns a piece of that $5 trillion prize. And our new book ""Reinventing Fire"" describes how you can capture it. So with the conversation just begun at ReinventingFire.com, let me invite you each to engage with us and with each other, with everyone around you, to help make the world richer, fairer, cooler and safer by together reinventing fire. Thank you. (Applause)"	"美國的公共能源議題最後總歸為這個問題你比較喜歡哪種死法 A. 石油戰爭B. 氣候變遷C. 核武浩劫或是 D. 以上皆是噢 我漏了一個 E. 以上皆非但通常不會有這個選項要是能運用能源 協助我們工作又不會導致毀滅 該有多好我們能不能安心使用燃料我們能不能重新造出火 火造就了人類石化燃料使我們現代化但我們現在需要一種新的火一種能讓我們安全 安定 健康 又能永續發展的火讓我們看看 該怎麼做 世界上五分之四的能源仍然來自於每年燃燒四立方英哩原始沼澤的腐化物質這些石化燃料幫助我們建立文明幫助我們創造財富豐富了數十億人的生活但就安全 經濟 健康和環境而言石化燃料的成本 卻不斷增加也許利仍大於弊 但壞處的確日漸增加 所以我們需要一種新的火從舊的火 轉變成新的火意味著石油及電力的使用模式 將會改變雖然兩者都會排放五分之二的化石碳卻大不相同 石油所產生的電力 占不到 1%而燃煤產生了 將近 50% 的電力兩者的用途都相當集中四分之三的石油 集中在交通運輸而四分之三的電力 用於建築物用電而兩者所剩下的四分之一 則供給工廠營運高效率的交通工具 建築物與工廠能省下許多石油與燃煤還有能取代石油與煤炭的天然氣 但目前的能源系統不只是沒效率還相當零散系統老舊 汙穢不堪 又不安全能源系統勢必要翻新到 2050 年 系統就能較有效率彼此互通 妥善運用也能節約能源交通工具 工廠與建築物都仰賴兼具現代化 安全與使用彈性的電力系統 到 2050 年 我們就能減少對石油與煤炭的依賴並將天然氣的使用量降低三分之一此時 我們能更有效運用資源與再生能源到了 2050 年淨現值能減少五兆美元這裡是指總值是相對於目前的營運成本而言但我們必須先假設 碳排放及其他隱性或外部成本為零但這只是保守估計如果能源系統變得更便宜就能使美國經濟擴大 158%完全不使用石油 煤炭或核能不僅於此 這個轉變不需要新發明不需要新法令不需要新稅目 不需要補助金 也不需要新法條美國政府也不會因此陷入困境 容我重申我想讓你們知道 要怎樣讓美國完全擺脫石油與煤炭 並減少五兆美元的開銷完全不需要受營利組織操控的國會 制訂新法換句話說 我們要運用最具效率的組織 民營企業與公民社會 共同努力並透過軍事革新 加速發展這樣才能跳過最不具效率的機構也許你們最關心的是利益 工作 競爭優勢國家安全 環境管理氣候保護 或是公共衛生重新研發取得能源的方式 合理也有賺頭 據說 艾森豪將軍說過將一個棘手問題的範圍擴大就能涵蓋更多解決方案與協助效應 就能解決問題所以 為了要重新研發取得能源的方式我們結合了耗能的四個部分也就是 交通運輸 建築用電 工業與發電也結合了四方面的革新不單只靠新科技和政策還包括設計與商業策略合併後 產生的效益遠比各項的總和還大特別是合併後 創造了顛覆性商業的機會 我們每天都得花 20 億買石油每天還得多付 40 億美元投注在隱性的經濟與軍事成本總額竟然超過國內生產總值的六分之一既然五分之三的機動燃料都用在交通工具上那我們就從這個問題著手吧要驅動一般車種 得耗費三分之二的能量而車子的重量 就是如此耗能的原因無論是減輕車子的重量 或是減少煞車時的消耗如果能在開車時節省一單位的能量油箱就能減少七單位的耗損因為你不需要多耗費六單位的能量把能量傳輸到車輪 但很不幸的是 在過去 25 年嚴重的肥胖問題 讓原本兩噸重的車子變得更重而且增加的速度將近兩倍但現今 我們擁有超輕 超堅固材料像是碳纖維複合材料能大幅減輕車子的重量也能讓生產汽車 變得更簡單 更便宜汽車質量越輕 運轉越順暢驅動汽車所需的能量就越低引擎就能越小事實上 車輛的這種適性能讓電力驅動變得經濟實惠因為電力電池或是燃料電池也能變得更小 更輕 更便宜最後 電池的價格就能與目前價格相仿而駕駛成本 就算是從一開始算起也降低非常多了 結合這些革新 就能讓汽車製造商不需再想方設法節省蒸氣引擎與軸封技術的成本 卻成效不彰而能省下一大筆開銷只要結合這三項彼此相互補強的革新 就能做到當中包含 超輕材料 製造技術以及電力驅動系統配合短期優惠方案就能增加銷量 價錢也能壓低得更快這對高效能的新車種而言 就像是種回扣金額與低效能車種的花費相當 在剛開始的前兩年歐洲實行的五項優惠方案中 最大的一項將汽車的效能提升速度 提高了三倍換成電動車我們就必須改變遊戲規則就像從打字機轉換到電腦一樣當然 電腦與電子產品是現今美國規模最大的工業但打字機製造商卻消失無蹤車輛適性產生了一種新的汽車競爭策略在未來 40 年 汽車的省油率能提升兩倍電動車也變得平價如此 電動車就能取代汽油車 美國有能力主導這一波汽車革新但目前 主導權在德國手上去年 福斯汽車宣布從今年開始 他們會著手生產碳纖維插件混合車一加侖的汽油 就能跑 230 英哩同樣在去年 BMW 公布了這款碳纖維電動車公司指出 運用了碳纖維技術就能減少汽車的電池數目他們也表示 ""我們不願成為打字機製造商""奧迪公司宣稱 他們要在一年內打敗福斯與 BMW 七年前 許多美國廠商運用了更快速 更便宜的生產科技以製造出碳纖維測試零件這玩意兒還能當帽子(笑聲)只要一分鐘 你們就能聽出它有多麼堅硬 多麼牢固掉到地上也沒關係 它比鈦金屬還硬事實上 湯姆弗里德曼曾拿鐵鎚死命地敲結果卻連一點刮痕也沒有 這樣的生產技術如果能結合流體設計就能影響汽車的速度與成本除了能將生產汽車的資本降低五分之四它也能保障生命安全因為它能吸收的撞擊力是每磅鋼鐵所能吸收的 12 倍如果能全面採行這個技術就能省下 一個半的沙烏地阿拉伯或半個石油輸出國家組織所蘊含的油若從底特律著手 就有可能成功底特律所蘊含 數百萬桶的石油平均每桶都要價 18 美元全為美國所產 也沒有碳排放的問題取之不盡 用之不竭 同樣的道理 同樣的商業邏輯也適用於大型交通工具2005 年到 2010 年沃爾瑪的重型卡車隊 每英哩的石油用量減少了 60%這歸功於更好的設計與後勤機制單就重型卡車 憑藉科技所省下來的部分就有三分之二這麼多就像是螢幕上所呈現的若結合運輸效率為三到五倍的飛機就能省下將近一兆 而今 能源效率的軍事革新也能加速民生科技的發展就像是軍事研發同樣賜予我們網際網路 全球定位系統還有噴射引擎 與微晶片工業當我們設計 生產更好的交通工具時我們也能更明智地使用它們運用四種強而有力的科技以減少駕駛時 無謂的耗損知道出遊里程數成長還不夠我們可以運用創新的定價方式以里程數計算道路使用費 而不以耗油量計 我們可以運用智慧資訊科技 提升運輸能力增進車輛共用及共乘率我們能運用智慧又有經濟效益的成長模組幫助已經接近目標的人們走對方向我們也能運用智慧資訊科技保持交通順暢結合智慧資訊科技 我們就能更接近目標減少 46% 至 84 %的駕駛消耗再省下一筆 4千億美元的開銷若能更有效使用卡車 就能再省 3千億 將金額總和起來 40 年後美國汽車經濟就能完全擺脫石油就能省下每桶 25 美元的石油更不需要花一百多元去買忽略隱性成本的話淨節省總值高達四兆美元 為了要讓汽車工業脫離石油擺脫石油的束縛我們得先增加效率 再設法改變燃料每加侖汽油能跑 125 至 240 英哩的汽車可以混合使用氫燃料電池電力電池 與先進的生質燃料事實上 卡車與飛機也能使用氫氣或生質燃料卡車甚至能使用天然氣所有的交通工具 都能擺脫石油所需的生質燃料每天也不過 300 萬桶其中的三分之二的可由廢棄物回收製造完全不需要占用農地也不會傷害土壤與氣候 我們的團隊正在加速發展這種省油模式我們稱之為 ""體制針灸""我們是因為 商業邏輯過多沒辦法順利流動的概念 才想到的我們插入細針幫助它導通與福特汽車、沃爾瑪、國防部等單位合作 漫長的轉換過程正在進行事實上 主流分析師在三年前 就注意到石油峰值需求面的石油峰值德意志銀行甚至表示 石油用量會在 2016 年達到高峰 換言之 即使石油還沒貴到買不起也已經失去競爭力了但電動交通工具不會對電網造成負擔當智慧汽車 透過設有智能電網的建築物得到電力 交換資訊時汽車其實增加了電網 珍貴的彈性與儲存能力如此便能幫助電網整合不斷變化的太陽能及風能 所以 電動車讓汽車與電力的問題在合併後更易於處理電動交通工具也整合了石油與電力的使用模式不但節電 還能改變使用模式再生能源與電動車把問題帶到用電模式用電量很大 涉及層面很深 又相當繁複是其他部分無法相比的我們擁有最先進的科技與發展速度卻因此與前二世紀的制度 規章 及文化產生衝擊取得電力方式的改變 會越來越簡單降低需求量就好大部分的電力都被浪費掉而節約電力的科技進展迅速甚至超過我們運用它們的速度所以 還買不到的效率資源就越來越龐大 越來越便宜 但隨著建築物與工業越來越有效率甚至超過經濟發展的速度美國的電力消耗反而能降低儘管會有小部分的額外消耗必須用在電動車充電上我們只需要適時地推動現有趨勢就可以了 40 年後占用了四分之三電力的建築物就能將能源生產力提升三倍到四倍省下一兆四千億美元的淨現值還會有 33% 的內部回收率換句話說事實上 省下來部分相當於成本的四倍工業也能加速發展將能源生產力提升兩倍內部回收率也能達到 21%關鍵就在於 破壞式創新我們稱之為 整合設計整合設計通常能省下可觀的能源成本很低 甚至為零整合設計能產生更多回饋而非減少 這就是我們在 2010 年改造帝國大廈 省下超過五分之二能源的方法大樓的 6500 扇窗戶 被我們重製成超級窗戶光能穿透玻璃 但熱能卻不行配合更好的照明與辦公室設備冷卻系統的最大負荷量 減少了三分之一我們修復小型冷卻機 而不添購大型冷卻機這省下了 1700 萬的資本成本而這筆錢就能拿來改善其他地方並將投資回收期 縮短至僅僅三年整合設計也能幫助工業節約用電道瓊指數的十億效率投資目前已經回本九億了 但整個工業還得省下5000 億的能源例如 全球五分之三的電力用在馬達上其中 一半用於幫浦與風扇但它們都能變得更有效率而轉動它們的馬達大約能將系統效率提高兩倍只要能整合 35 項改善項目 一年就能回本 但首先 我們必須省下更大宗 更便宜的項目這項常常會被忽略 教科書也沒提例如 幫浦是馬達使用的最大宗它能移動水體通過管線但標準的工業抽水循環經過改良 能節省至少 86% 的能源不需要添購新幫浦只要把細長 彎曲的管線換成粗短的直線管線就可以了這與新科技無關只是重新安排金屬設備當然 幫浦會變小資本成本亦然 這樣的節約對供給馬達五分之三能源的電力而言 代表什麼從發電廠 燃燒煤炭開始到化合物耗損為止僅有十分之一的能源最後能透過管線傳輸到外界我們現在把化合物耗損的狀況倒轉在管線之中 省下來的每單位能量就能省下十單位的燃料成本與汙染以及杭特所謂的 ""全球氣候異常""能量最後回歸發電廠當然 如果追回上游工業組成的部件會比較小 也會比較便宜 我們的團隊最近發現一種成效能倍增的節能方式能套用在價值超過 300 億的工業重設中資料中心 晶片工廠礦場 煉油廠都適用我們的改造設計一般能省下 30% 至 60% 的能源幾年內就能回本設計新設備 能節省四成至九成多的能源通常也能降低資本成本 對電力的需求降低就能緩和及加速新能源的轉換 簡言之 就是再生能源中國大陸在這方面成長卓越 成本也急遽降低事實上 這些太陽能發電板的成本已經低到超乎想像了德國目前從事太陽能相關工作的人比美國的鋼鐵業人員還多大致上 在 20 州內已有許多私人廠商會將便宜的太陽能板安裝在你家屋頂 且卸除不須付費你的水電費會低得驚人這種民營的產品最終能聚集成一種虛擬公共事業能跳過電力公司就像手機 能繞過家裡的有線電話公司它會讓公共事業的行政人員焦躁無比也讓愛冒險的資本家懷抱美夢 再生能源不再是沒人要的資源過去四年間的每一年全世界的新發電量泰半為再生能源而近年大多都分布於發展中國家2010 年 排除水力 風力 及太陽能其餘的再生能源接受了高達 1510 億的私人投資事實上 這已經超過了全球核電廠裝設量的總額再生能源一年就能增加 600 億瓦特的電力太陽能電板裝設量也是如此全世界每年能增加的比例高達 60% 至 70%反之 核電廠 燃煤電廠及其他項目的淨增量 都不斷減少因為一般電廠成本太高 容易引發財政危機事實上 在美國已經沒有核電廠能得到私人的建設資助儘管七年間 政府每年都增加一倍的補助款 所以 為了取代燃煤電廠 我們還能做什麼呢高效率發電方式及天然氣 能完全取代燃煤電廠費用還比燃煤電廠的營運成本低若結合再生能源 不但能取代它們 還能取代 23 次費用甚至比重置成本更低但只需要取代一次就夠了可是我們卻常聽到只有燃煤與核能 才能穩定供電因為它們可以持續發電 毫不停歇風力與太陽能相對不穩定因此有人認為 風力與太陽能很不可靠 事實上 沒有發電機能不休息若發電廠停止運轉每毫秒就會損失千兆瓦的電力停止運轉通常都會維持幾週至幾個月 甚至沒有事先告知這就是為什麼我們要設計出電網以與現役的電廠合作 補足歇業電廠的缺額同理電網能夠克服風力及太陽能可預測的變化 長達一小時的模擬測試顯示出大部分或全部的再生能源電網能夠傳輸非常穩定的電力只要風力及太陽能能夠依據種類及位置預測透過整合及多元化處理 就能辦到這在大陸地區 像是美國及歐洲 的確可行而幅員較小的地區 只要能安裝大型電網就行舉例來說 這是 2010 年德國四省的做法風力發電占了總電量的 43% 到 52%而葡萄牙的再生能源占了 45%丹麥則為 36%這就是全歐洲國家能夠轉換到再生能源的方法而我們美國 老舊 骯髒 又不安全的電力系統在 2050 年以前 無論如何都必須更新不管我們用什麼取代現有的設備成本幾乎與現在的電廠差不多現值約六兆美元不管我們會不會購買更多現有資源蓋新的核電廠 運用所謂的淨煤或者 或多或少已集中管理的再生能源 剛才提到的四項 成本都很接近但各項所承受的風險對國家安全燃料 水資源 財政 科技氣候及健康而言 卻有著天壤之別例如 過度集中管理的電網只要連結一斷或是遇上足以粉碎整個經濟體的大停電 就會完全停擺惡劣天氣 其他自然災害 甚至是恐怖攻擊都有可能造成停電但停電危機可以解除其他危機也能夠盡可能妥善控管只要妥善運用再生能源將其編入相互連結的地區性微電網但必要時 也能獨立運作也就是說 內聯機制能夠各自切斷也能重新連結 國防部目前就是採用這個方法控管五角大廈的電力供應他們認為有此必要 那受保護的我們呢希望我們的供電系統也能如此如同前面那些選項 此機制的營運成本也幾乎相同這麼做 能讓國家安全成效最佳讓消費者擁有最大的選擇權 提供企業最大的機會也能讓革新達到最高峰 總括來說 有效使用再生能源 增加各項資源的供應方式正在改變整個電力供應系統傳統公共事業會建造許多燃煤電廠 核電廠還有一些天然氣發電廠也許 還有極少數是高效率的再生能源電廠傳統公共事業仍受到獎勵34 州內都是如此就因為它們能供應更多電力然而 尤其在管理者鼓勵減少支出的地方投資在再生能源電廠的金額反而急遽增加投資集中在效能 需量反應 汽電共生再生能源 及其串聯方法不僅能減少傳輸耗損也幾乎不需要大宗電力儲存機制 我們使用能源的未來 並非命中注定 是可以選擇的而且選項的彈性也很大舉例來說 1976 年政府與製造業堅持維持國內生產毛額所需的能源量不能減少但我認為 就算減少好幾倍也沒關係事實擺在眼前能源量已經減少了一半若能配合日新月異的科技更成熟的傳輸途徑 與整合設計我們就能做得更多 成本就壓得越低 如果要解決能源問題就把問題的範圍擴大也許成效一開始令人難以置信但就像馬歇爾說的""只有微不足道的秘密 需要保護""""凡是驚人的大發現 都會受到公眾的懷疑""結合受到現代效能觀念驅動而發展的電力與石油革新就能抓到重點 重燃火源明智的政策 能塑造 加速商業發展能讓美國在 2050 年以前完全擺脫石油與燃煤省下五兆的開銷使經濟體成長 2.6 倍強化國家安全噢 對了 若能擺脫石油與燃煤就能將化石碳排放量 減少 82% 至 86% 上述的結果 你不需要全都喜歡只要你覺得 其中一項聽起來還不錯就能支持重燃火源的行動你也不需要認定 哪個選項最重要該注意的是結果 不是動機把困境與衝突轉化成美國能源危機的共通解答而這也是因應全球危機的最佳答案像是氣候變遷 核擴散能源危機 能源短缺都讓我們更靠向危險邊境 我們的 RMI 團隊 正積極幫助明智的公司脫離困境 加速轉換的過程主要藉由六方面的行動計畫 還有一些還在籌畫當中當然 外界還是有許多傳統觀念前石油大亨 莫里斯斯特朗 說過""不是所有化石都在石油裡""但杜邦公司前總裁 埃德加伍拉德 也說過""被舊觀念阻礙的公司 不會是問題""""因為它們根本就不會長久"" 這並不是 一個文明只會有一次的商業契機而是人類史上最重大的轉變之一我們正著手研發新的火我們不往地底下挖而是從地表之上取得資源不少 而是很豐富沒有地區性 而是四處可見不是暫時應變 而是長久之計不需要砸大錢 而是不費一毛但不管是已經快用完的天然氣還是以各種方式持續永存的生質燃料新的能源都很不一樣 不需要燃燒若能有效運用 的確能幫助人類發展而不導致毀滅 每個人手上都握有 那五兆成果的一小部分我們的新書《重燃火源》就說明了 該如何獲得那一小部分的成果在演講一開始時透過 ReinventingFire.com 這個網站我想邀請各位與我們 與各位 與身邊的每一個人一起努力讓這個世界變得更富饒 更公平更涼爽 更安全只要我們一起努力 重燃火源 謝謝 (掌聲)"
