Talk	en	zh-tw
amy_cuddy_your_body_language_shapes_who_you_are	"So I want to start by offering you a free no-tech life hack, and all it requires of you is this: that you change your posture for two minutes. But before I give it away, I want to ask you to right now do a little audit of your body and what you're doing with your body. So how many of you are sort of making yourselves smaller? Maybe you're hunching, crossing your legs, maybe wrapping your ankles. Sometimes we hold onto our arms like this. Sometimes we spread out. (Laughter) I see you. So I want you to pay attention to what you're doing right now. We're going to come back to that in a few minutes, and I'm hoping that if you learn to tweak this a little bit, it could significantly change the way your life unfolds. So, we're really fascinated with body language, and we're particularly interested in other people's body language. You know, we're interested in, like, you know — (Laughter) — an awkward interaction, or a smile, or a contemptuous glance, or maybe a very awkward wink, or maybe even something like a handshake. Narrator: Here they are arriving at Number 10. This lucky policeman gets to shake hands with the President of the United States. Here comes the Prime Minister — No. (Laughter) (Applause) (Laughter) (Applause) Amy Cuddy: So a handshake, or the lack of a handshake, can have us talking for weeks and weeks and weeks. Even the BBC and The New York Times. So obviously when we think about nonverbal behavior, or body language — but we call it nonverbals as social scientists — it's language, so we think about communication. When we think about communication, we think about interactions. So what is your body language communicating to me? What's mine communicating to you? And there's a lot of reason to believe that this is a valid way to look at this. So social scientists have spent a lot of time looking at the effects of our body language, or other people's body language, on judgments. And we make sweeping judgments and inferences from body language. And those judgments can predict really meaningful life outcomes like who we hire or promote, who we ask out on a date. For example, Nalini Ambady, a researcher at Tufts University, shows that when people watch 30-second soundless clips of real physician-patient interactions, their judgments of the physician's niceness predict whether or not that physician will be sued. So it doesn't have to do so much with whether or not that physician was incompetent, but do we like that person and how they interacted? Even more dramatic, Alex Todorov at Princeton has shown us that judgments of political candidates' faces in just one second predict 70 percent of U.S. Senate and gubernatorial race outcomes, and even, let's go digital, emoticons used well in online negotiations can lead you to claim more value from that negotiation. If you use them poorly, bad idea. Right? So when we think of nonverbals, we think of how we judge others, how they judge us and what the outcomes are. We tend to forget, though, the other audience that's influenced by our nonverbals, and that's ourselves. We are also influenced by our nonverbals, our thoughts and our feelings and our physiology. So what nonverbals am I talking about? I'm a social psychologist. I study prejudice, and I teach at a competitive business school, so it was inevitable that I would become interested in power dynamics. I became especially interested in nonverbal expressions of power and dominance. And what are nonverbal expressions of power and dominance? Well, this is what they are. So in the animal kingdom, they are about expanding. So you make yourself big, you stretch out, you take up space, you're basically opening up. It's about opening up. And this is true across the animal kingdom. It's not just limited to primates. And humans do the same thing. (Laughter) So they do this both when they have power sort of chronically, and also when they're feeling powerful in the moment. And this one is especially interesting because it really shows us how universal and old these expressions of power are. This expression, which is known as pride, Jessica Tracy has studied. She shows that people who are born with sight and people who are congenitally blind do this when they win at a physical competition. So when they cross the finish line and they've won, it doesn't matter if they've never seen anyone do it. They do this. So the arms up in the V, the chin is slightly lifted. What do we do when we feel powerless? We do exactly the opposite. We close up. We wrap ourselves up. We make ourselves small. We don't want to bump into the person next to us. So again, both animals and humans do the same thing. And this is what happens when you put together high and low power. So what we tend to do when it comes to power is that we complement the other's nonverbals. So if someone is being really powerful with us, we tend to make ourselves smaller. We don't mirror them. We do the opposite of them. So I'm watching this behavior in the classroom, and what do I notice? I notice that MBA students really exhibit the full range of power nonverbals. So you have people who are like caricatures of alphas, really coming into the room, they get right into the middle of the room before class even starts, like they really want to occupy space. When they sit down, they're sort of spread out. They raise their hands like this. You have other people who are virtually collapsing when they come in. As soon they come in, you see it. You see it on their faces and their bodies, and they sit in their chair and they make themselves tiny, and they go like this when they raise their hand. I notice a couple of things about this. One, you're not going to be surprised. It seems to be related to gender. So women are much more likely to do this kind of thing than men. Women feel chronically less powerful than men, so this is not surprising. But the other thing I noticed is that it also seemed to be related to the extent to which the students were participating, and how well they were participating. And this is really important in the MBA classroom, because participation counts for half the grade. So business schools have been struggling with this gender grade gap. You get these equally qualified women and men coming in and then you get these differences in grades, and it seems to be partly attributable to participation. So I started to wonder, you know, okay, so you have these people coming in like this, and they're participating. Is it possible that we could get people to fake it and would it lead them to participate more? So my main collaborator Dana Carney, who's at Berkeley, and I really wanted to know, can you fake it till you make it? Like, can you do this just for a little while and actually experience a behavioral outcome that makes you seem more powerful? So we know that our nonverbals govern how other people think and feel about us. There's a lot of evidence. But our question really was, do our nonverbals govern how we think and feel about ourselves? There's some evidence that they do. So, for example, we smile when we feel happy, but also, when we're forced to smile by holding a pen in our teeth like this, it makes us feel happy. So it goes both ways. When it comes to power, it also goes both ways. So when you feel powerful, you're more likely to do this, but it's also possible that when you pretend to be powerful, you are more likely to actually feel powerful. So the second question really was, you know, so we know that our minds change our bodies, but is it also true that our bodies change our minds? And when I say minds, in the case of the powerful, what am I talking about? So I'm talking about thoughts and feelings and the sort of physiological things that make up our thoughts and feelings, and in my case, that's hormones. I look at hormones. So what do the minds of the powerful versus the powerless look like? So powerful people tend to be, not surprisingly, more assertive and more confident, more optimistic. They actually feel they're going to win even at games of chance. They also tend to be able to think more abstractly. So there are a lot of differences. They take more risks. There are a lot of differences between powerful and powerless people. Physiologically, there also are differences on two key hormones: testosterone, which is the dominance hormone, and cortisol, which is the stress hormone. So what we find is that high-power alpha males in primate hierarchies have high testosterone and low cortisol, and powerful and effective leaders also have high testosterone and low cortisol. So what does that mean? When you think about power, people tended to think only about testosterone, because that was about dominance. But really, power is also about how you react to stress. So do you want the high-power leader that's dominant, high on testosterone, but really stress reactive? Probably not, right? You want the person who's powerful and assertive and dominant, but not very stress reactive, the person who's laid back. So we know that in primate hierarchies, if an alpha needs to take over, if an individual needs to take over an alpha role sort of suddenly, within a few days, that individual's testosterone has gone up significantly and his cortisol has dropped significantly. So we have this evidence, both that the body can shape the mind, at least at the facial level, and also that role changes can shape the mind. So what happens, okay, you take a role change, what happens if you do that at a really minimal level, like this tiny manipulation, this tiny intervention? ""For two minutes,"" you say, ""I want you to stand like this, and it's going to make you feel more powerful."" So this is what we did. We decided to bring people into the lab and run a little experiment, and these people adopted, for two minutes, either high-power poses or low-power poses, and I'm just going to show you five of the poses, although they took on only two. So here's one. A couple more. This one has been dubbed the ""Wonder Woman"" by the media. Here are a couple more. So you can be standing or you can be sitting. And here are the low-power poses. So you're folding up, you're making yourself small. This one is very low-power. When you're touching your neck, you're really protecting yourself. So this is what happens. They come in, they spit into a vial, for two minutes, we say, ""You need to do this or this."" They don't look at pictures of the poses. We don't want to prime them with a concept of power. We want them to be feeling power. So two minutes they do this. We then ask them, ""How powerful do you feel?"" on a series of items, and then we give them an opportunity to gamble, and then we take another saliva sample. That's it. That's the whole experiment. So this is what we find. Risk tolerance, which is the gambling, we find that when you are in the high-power pose condition, 86 percent of you will gamble. When you're in the low-power pose condition, only 60 percent, and that's a whopping significant difference. Here's what we find on testosterone. From their baseline when they come in, high-power people experience about a 20-percent increase, and low-power people experience about a 10-percent decrease. So again, two minutes, and you get these changes. Here's what you get on cortisol. High-power people experience about a 25-percent decrease, and the low-power people experience about a 15-percent increase. So two minutes lead to these hormonal changes that configure your brain to basically be either assertive, confident and comfortable, or really stress-reactive, and feeling sort of shut down. And we've all had the feeling, right? So it seems that our nonverbals do govern how we think and feel about ourselves, so it's not just others, but it's also ourselves. Also, our bodies change our minds. But the next question, of course, is, can power posing for a few minutes really change your life in meaningful ways? This is in the lab, it's this little task, it's just a couple of minutes. Where can you actually apply this? Which we cared about, of course. And so we think where you want to use this is evaluative situations, like social threat situations. Where are you being evaluated, either by your friends? For teenagers, it's at the lunchroom table. For some people it's speaking at a school board meeting. It might be giving a pitch or giving a talk like this or doing a job interview. We decided that the one that most people could relate to because most people had been through, was the job interview. So we published these findings, and the media are all over it, and they say, Okay, so this is what you do when you go in for the job interview, right? (Laughter) You know, so we were of course horrified, and said, Oh my God, no, that's not what we meant at all. For numerous reasons, no, don't do that. Again, this is not about you talking to other people. It's you talking to yourself. What do you do before you go into a job interview? You do this. You're sitting down. You're looking at your iPhone — or your Android, not trying to leave anyone out. You're looking at your notes, you're hunching up, making yourself small, when really what you should be doing maybe is this, like, in the bathroom, right? Do that. Find two minutes. So that's what we want to test. Okay? So we bring people into a lab, and they do either high- or low-power poses again, they go through a very stressful job interview. It's five minutes long. They are being recorded. They're being judged also, and the judges are trained to give no nonverbal feedback, so they look like this. Imagine this is the person interviewing you. So for five minutes, nothing, and this is worse than being heckled. People hate this. It's what Marianne LaFrance calls ""standing in social quicksand."" So this really spikes your cortisol. So this is the job interview we put them through, because we really wanted to see what happened. We then have these coders look at these tapes, four of them. They're blind to the hypothesis. They're blind to the conditions. They have no idea who's been posing in what pose, and they end up looking at these sets of tapes, and they say, ""We want to hire these people,"" all the high-power posers. ""We don't want to hire these people. We also evaluate these people much more positively overall."" But what's driving it? It's not about the content of the speech. It's about the presence that they're bringing to the speech. Because we rate them on all these variables related to competence, like, how well-structured is the speech? How good is it? What are their qualifications? No effect on those things. This is what's affected. These kinds of things. People are bringing their true selves, basically. They're bringing themselves. They bring their ideas, but as themselves, with no, you know, residue over them. So this is what's driving the effect, or mediating the effect. So when I tell people about this, that our bodies change our minds and our minds can change our behavior, and our behavior can change our outcomes, they say to me, ""It feels fake."" Right? So I said, fake it till you make it. It's not me. I don't want to get there and then still feel like a fraud. I don't want to feel like an impostor. I don't want to get there only to feel like I'm not supposed to be here. And that really resonated with me, because I want to tell you a little story about being an impostor and feeling like I'm not supposed to be here. When I was 19, I was in a really bad car accident. I was thrown out of a car, rolled several times. I was thrown from the car. And I woke up in a head injury rehab ward, and I had been withdrawn from college, and I learned that my IQ had dropped by two standard deviations, which was very traumatic. I knew my IQ because I had identified with being smart, and I had been called gifted as a child. So I'm taken out of college, I keep trying to go back. They say, ""You're not going to finish college. Just, you know, there are other things for you to do, but that's not going to work out for you."" So I really struggled with this, and I have to say, having your identity taken from you, your core identity, and for me it was being smart, having that taken from you, there's nothing that leaves you feeling more powerless than that. So I felt entirely powerless. I worked and worked, and I got lucky, and worked, and got lucky, and worked. Eventually I graduated from college. It took me four years longer than my peers, and I convinced someone, my angel advisor, Susan Fiske, to take me on, and so I ended up at Princeton, and I was like, I am not supposed to be here. I am an impostor. And the night before my first-year talk, and the first-year talk at Princeton is a 20-minute talk to 20 people. That's it. I was so afraid of being found out the next day that I called her and said, ""I'm quitting."" She was like, ""You are not quitting, because I took a gamble on you, and you're staying. You're going to stay, and this is what you're going to do. You are going to fake it. You're going to do every talk that you ever get asked to do. You're just going to do it and do it and do it, even if you're terrified and just paralyzed and having an out-of-body experience, until you have this moment where you say, 'Oh my gosh, I'm doing it. Like, I have become this. I am actually doing this.'"" So that's what I did. Five years in grad school, a few years, you know, I'm at Northwestern, I moved to Harvard, I'm at Harvard, I'm not really thinking about it anymore, but for a long time I had been thinking, ""Not supposed to be here."" So at the end of my first year at Harvard, a student who had not talked in class the entire semester, who I had said, ""Look, you've gotta participate or else you're going to fail,"" came into my office. I really didn't know her at all. She came in totally defeated, and she said, ""I'm not supposed to be here."" And that was the moment for me. Because two things happened. One was that I realized, oh my gosh, I don't feel like that anymore. I don't feel that anymore, but she does, and I get that feeling. And the second was, she is supposed to be here! Like, she can fake it, she can become it. So I was like, ""Yes, you are! You are supposed to be here! And tomorrow you're going to fake it, you're going to make yourself powerful, and, you know — (Applause) And you're going to go into the classroom, and you are going to give the best comment ever."" You know? And she gave the best comment ever, and people turned around and were like, oh my God, I didn't even notice her sitting there. (Laughter) She comes back to me months later, and I realized that she had not just faked it till she made it, she had actually faked it till she became it. So she had changed. And so I want to say to you, don't fake it till you make it. Fake it till you become it. Do it enough until you actually become it and internalize. The last thing I'm going to leave you with is this. Tiny tweaks can lead to big changes. So, this is two minutes. Two minutes, two minutes, two minutes. Before you go into the next stressful evaluative situation, for two minutes, try doing this, in the elevator, in a bathroom stall, at your desk behind closed doors. That's what you want to do. Configure your brain to cope the best in that situation. Get your testosterone up. Get your cortisol down. Don't leave that situation feeling like, oh, I didn't show them who I am. Leave that situation feeling like, I really feel like I got to say who I am and show who I am. So I want to ask you first, you know, both to try power posing, and also I want to ask you to share the science, because this is simple. I don't have ego involved in this. (Laughter) Give it away. Share it with people, because the people who can use it the most are the ones with no resources and no technology and no status and no power. Give it to them because they can do it in private. They need their bodies, privacy and two minutes, and it can significantly change the outcomes of their life. Thank you. (Applause)"	"首先我要提供你們一個免費的不涉科技的生活小撇步你只要改變你的姿勢二分鐘在我說明前，我要先請大家先檢視一下你的姿態你們之中有多少人身體是約略縮小的?或許你現在翹著腳駝著背?或者雙手抱膝有時我們會這樣抱著手臂有時我們會打開雙手 (笑聲)我看到囉(笑聲)現在請大家專心在自己身上我們等一下在回到這件事上希望你們可以稍微改變一下這會讓你的生活變得很不一樣 所以，我們深為身體語言著迷特別是別人的身體語言你知道，當我們為 (笑聲)尷尬的互動，或微笑或輕蔑的一瞥，或不自然的眨眼甚至是握手這樣的一件事 （影片旁白）：他們抵達英國首相官邸唐寧街10號，幸運的警員可以和美國總統握手噢，還有來自....的首相? 不 (笑聲) (掌聲)(笑聲) (掌聲) 所以一個握手，或不握手我們都可以聊上好幾個禮拜即使 BBC 和紐約時報也不例外我們說到非語言行為或身體語言時我們社會科學學者將之歸類為非口語語言它就是一種語言，所以我們會想到溝通當我們想到溝通，我們就想到互動所以你現在的身體語言正在告訴我甚麼?我的身體又是在傳達甚麼給你們? 有很多理由讓我們相信這是有效的切入點社會科學家花了很多時間研究我們的身體語言或其他人的身體語言在判斷方面的效應而我們根據他人的身體語言，推論並做出快速又決絕的判斷這些判斷可以幫我們預測生命裡很有意義的事件像是要雇用誰，邀請誰出去約會舉例而言，Tufts 大學的研究員，Nalini Ambady讓我們看到 當人們觀賞一段 30 秒正牌醫師和病人互動的無聲影片他們對該醫師是否和善的觀感可用來預測該醫師日後是否會被病人告上法庭跟這個醫師稱職與否沒有太大關係重點是我們喜不喜歡他和他們互動的情形?更戲劇化的是，普林斯頓的 Alex Todorov 的研究告訴我們我們在一秒內對政治人物臉部的喜好判斷對美國參議院和美國州長的選舉結果有 70% 的預測力甚至，在電腦上的互動在線上協商時，妥善運用表情符號可以讓你在協商中獲的較多價值假如你運用不得當，不妙！對吧?當我們想到非口語語言，我們就想到判斷別人別人如何判斷我們以及結果我們往往忘記，還有其他人也受到我們非口語語言影響那就是我們自己 我們也同時受自己的非口語語言、想法感覺和生理影響所以我說的究竟是甚麼樣的非口語語言?我是一位社會心理學家，我研究偏見我在一所競爭激烈的商學院教書因此無可避免地對權力間互動關係著迷特別是在非口語語言表達方面的權力和支配 展示權力和支配的非口語語言又為何呢?嗯，讓我細細道來在動物世界裡，權力和支配的非口語語言講究擴展所以你盡可能得把自己變大，你伸展身體占滿空間，基本上就是開展身體就是關於展開身體整個動物世界都是如此，不僅限於靈長類。人類也幹同樣的事(笑聲)不論是習於權力的人或普通人偶而碰上可以大聲講話的時後，都是如此特別有趣的原因是它讓我們明白古今世界權力的展現從來是如此地一致自尊的表現Jessica Tracy 研究顯示視力正常的人和先天視障的人在贏得比賽時都做同樣的事當他們跨過終點線贏得比賽之際無論他們是否曾看過這種行為他們都展現這個姿勢雙臂呈V字型朝上，下巴微揚那我們感到無助的時候呢? 我們做完全相反的事我們縮起身體。我們把自己捲曲起來讓自己變得小一點，最好別碰到身旁的人我再重複一次，人類和動物都一樣這是在權力不對等時發生的狀況在不對等權力狀態下，我們傾向和對方互補若有人對我們展現權力我們傾向把自己縮小些，我們不模仿他們我們背道而馳 當我在課堂上觀察這麼現象時你猜我發現甚麼? 我發現 MBA 的學生把權力的非口語語言部分表達的淋漓盡致你會看到有些人就像動物群裡支配的雄性的變形上課前大搖大擺走進教室，一屁股坐在教室正中好像他們真的要占據整個空間似的當他們坐下的時候，身體會展開舉手時會像這樣把手高舉起來有些人基本上是攤成一堆他們一走進來你就會發現從他們的臉上表情和身體姿勢都看得出來他們坐在椅子上，把自己縮的小小的然後舉手的時候是這種畏畏縮縮的樣子我觀察到兩點：第一，不出所料這跟性別有關女人比男人更會顯得畏縮長期以來女人都不覺得像男人那麼強勢所以這並不太讓人意外。但第二件我觀察到的這種表現似乎跟學生的參與程度與參與表現相關在 MBA 的課堂上來說這真的非常重要因為參與的表現占成績的一半 所以商學院一直以來都為男女生在參與上的差別傷腦筋入學的時候男女生不分軒輊可是成績出來卻反映性別差異而看起來一部分原因和參與有關所以我開始思考，好吧所以這群人一開始來是這副樣子，看起來積極參與那是不是可能讓大家先假裝成那樣進而影響他們，能更積極參與? 我在 Berkeley 的主要合作研究夥伴，Dana Carney和我都很想知道，是不是能先假裝，到最後則成真譬如說，先小小假裝一陣子，然後在實際行為上經驗到你看來很有權力的樣子的結果我們都知道非口語語言影響他人對我們的看法。已經有很多研究證明這件事而我們要問的問題是，非口語語言是否影響我們對自己的看法與感覺？ 確實有證據支持這個說法舉例來說，我們開心的時候會微笑但同樣地，當我們被迫在口中咬住一隻筆呈現微笑的表情時，我們也會感到開心代表這是互為因果，互相影響的。說到權力亦是如此。所以當我們感到很有權力時你比較會這樣做，但你也可能假裝自己很有權力，然後真的覺得自己力量強大 那第二個問題就是我們知道心理狀態會影響身體那身體是否能影響心理呢?這裡所說的心理充滿力量指的是甚麼?我指的是想法和感覺和構成我們想法和感受的生理因素我這裡是指荷爾蒙。所以我針對荷爾蒙來看充滿力量或充滿無力感在荷爾蒙層面上有什麼差別？不出乎意料，感覺自己有力的人往往比較果斷，自信，且樂觀他們確切認為機會永遠站在他們這邊他們也較擅長抽象思考還有許多差異。這種人比較敢承受風險強勢的人與充滿無力感的人真的差別很大在生理上有二個重要的荷爾蒙對此有影響一是睪固酮:也就是支配性荷爾蒙一是腎上腺皮質醇:也就是壓力荷爾蒙我們發現到靈長類裡的強勢男性有大量的睪固酮和低量的腎上腺皮質醇強勢，高效能的領袖人物也有大量睪固酮與低量的腎上腺皮質醇這表示甚麼? 當你想到權力人們往往只想到睪固酮因為它代表支配統治但力量其實也和如何處理壓力有關所以你會想見一個有支配地位強勢領袖有著很多睪固酮但同時又對壓力反應過度嗎?大概不會吧，不是嗎?你會希望那個人是充滿力量，肯定果斷，非常強勢但也不會對壓力反應過度，不能輕鬆以對 靈長動物的社群階級裡，如果一個強勢雄性想要奪權，如果一個雄性突然想要爭取首領這個角色幾天內，他體內的睪固酮一定急速增加而其腎上腺皮質醇劇烈地減少身體影響心理，由此可證至少就表面而言是如此同時角色的轉換也會影響心理所以，如果你改變角色如果你做一個微小改變會怎樣像這樣的操作，這樣一個小小的干預?""持續二分鐘""你說，""我要你們這樣站著，它會讓你感到更充滿力量"" 接著我們就決定做這個實驗。我們將人們帶進實驗室做個小實驗這些人將擺出有權勢的姿態或無力的姿態兩分鐘，現在我們一起看這五種姿勢，雖然他們只做了其中二種這是其一再兩個姿勢這個姿勢是媒體一般稱為""神力女超人"" 的姿態還有這兩個或站或坐這些是無助的姿勢你雙手交叉，試著讓自己變小一點這張顯現非常無助的樣子當你摸脖子你其實在保護自己實際的狀況是，他們一進來先朝試管裡吐口口水我們告訴他，擺這個姿勢，兩分鐘他們不會看到姿勢的照片，因為我們不想要暗示，影響他們我們要他們自己感覺力量不是嗎? 所以他們擺了二分鐘姿勢然後，我們拿一堆東西，問他們: ""現在你覺得自己多有力量?""受試者接著會有一個博奕的機會接著再取一次唾液樣本就是這樣。這就是整個實驗 我們發現到風險承擔能力，用賭博來衡量擺出有權勢姿勢的人有 86% 會選擇賭博擺低權勢姿態的人呢只有 60% 會賭，這兩者間差異真的很大我們發現這些人進來的那一刻起，擺高權勢姿態的人睪固酮會上升 20%擺低權勢姿態的人則是下降 10%所以，再說一次，只有兩分鐘，就有這種差異擺有權勢姿態的人腎上腺皮質醇下降 25%，擺低權勢姿態的人腎上腺皮質醇則上升 15%只要二分鐘可以讓這些荷爾蒙產生這種改變使你的腦袋成為果斷、自信和自在或高度緊張以及感到退縮。我們都曾有過這些體驗不是嗎?看來非口語的語言確實掌控我們對自己的想法感受不只是影響別人，更影響我們自己同時，我們的身體可以改變心理 但下一個問題，當然，就是維持數分鐘的姿勢是否真能影響你的人生?剛剛都只是在實驗室哩，一個小實驗，你知道的，只有幾分鐘。這有什麼地方可以應用呢？這才是我們關心的我們認為什麼時候可以應用呢？我們相信是在評量的情況下可用像是社交威脅的情境裡，在你被人評估的時候也許是你朋友評估你？就像是是青少年吃午餐的餐桌上那緊張樣有些人可以應用在學校董事會演講時可能是提出宣揚一個主張或是像現在一樣的演講裡用或是找工作面試時，都用的上我們認為一般人最能認同體會的情境因為大部分人都曾經歷過也就是求職面試 我們發表這個結論，媒體大肆炒作他們說，好吧，所以你去求職面試時，你得這樣做，對吧? (笑聲)我們當然大吃一驚，表示我的天啊，不不不，我們不是這個意思不管甚麼原因，不不，千萬別這麼做這和你跟別人交談無關這是你和你自己心理對談你在面試工作之前做甚麼? 你會這樣對吧? 你會做下來，你盯著自己的 iPhone 手機或安卓手機，我們可不想漏掉哪個你看著自己的筆記你把自己蜷縮起來，試著讓自己變得小一點你真正需要做的應該是到洗手間，然後這樣，花個二分鐘所以我們想測試的是這個把人帶進實驗室他們再擺高權勢或低權勢的姿態接著進行一個高度壓力的求職面試為時五分鐘。全程錄影他們同時也被評論，而這些考官都接受過訓練不會給予任何非語言的回饋所以他們看起來就像這樣，想像一下這個人正在面試你整整五分鐘，甚麼都沒有，這比刁難詰問更難受大家都不喜歡這種方式。這就是 Marianne LaFrance 所謂的""陷入社交流沙中""這可以大大激發你的腎上腺皮質醇我們給予受試者這種面試然後看結果如何我們找了四個打分數的人看這些面試錄影他們不知假設前提和也不了解測試的條件沒有人知道誰擺甚麼樣的姿勢最後他們觀看這些帶子然後他們說，""噢，我們想要錄用這些人""也就是那些擺高權勢姿勢的人— ""這些人我們不想錄用""我們對這些人的整體印象也比較正面但背後的原因是甚麼? 跟演講的內容無關而是他們把自己帶進了演講裡我們也衡量一些其他的變數和能力有關，像是演講的結構好不好它有多棒? 講者的學經歷?全都無關。有影響的是這些事。基本上人們表現出真實的自己就他們自己他們誠實的帶入了自己的種種意念毫無保留這就是背後真實的力量，或造成影響 所以當我告訴人們我們的身體會改變心理，心理會改變行為而行為會改變結果，他們回我說""我不這麼想—聽起來好像是假的"" 對嗎?我就說，你就假裝一直到你達成目的為止。不幹，這不是我我不想要成功後感覺像是一個騙子我不想自己覺得自己是個假貨我不要達成目的後，只有一種我本不該成功的感覺我深有同感這裡跟大家分享一個小故事有關身為假貨，感覺我不配成功的故事 在我 19 歲的時候，發生了一場很嚴重的車禍我整個人飛出車外，滾了好幾翻我彈出車外，頭部重傷，醒來時身處頭部復健病房我從大學裡休學別人告知我智商下降了 2 個標準差就是說非常非常糟糕我知道我的智商應該是多少，因為我以前被人家認為是很聰明的那種小時大家都教我是資優生當我被迫離開大學時，我試著回去他們說都告訴我說，""你沒有辦法畢業的。你知道，你還可以做很多其他的事啊，但大學你是無望了。""我死命掙扎，我必須承認當你自我認同感被剝奪，主要的身分認同對我而言，我的自我認同就是聰明不再聰明，再沒有比這個讓我更加無助的了我感到完全的無力，我拼命地瘋狂地努力，努力再努力幸運眷顧，再努力，幸運，再努力。 最終我大學畢業了。我比同儕多花了四年的時間然後說服我的恩師，Susan Fiske收我，讓我進入了普林斯頓我當時覺得，我不應該在這裡我是個冒牌貨在我第一年演講前的那個晚上，普林斯頓第一年的演講大約是對 20 個人做 20 分鐘的演講。就這樣我當時好害怕隔天被拆穿我不配當普林斯頓的學生所以我打給她說，""我不幹了。""她說:""你不可以不幹，因為我賭在你身上了，你得留下。你會留下，你得這麼做。你要假裝你就是正牌普林斯頓學生每個邀請你去主講的演講，你都得照辦你得一直講一直講即使你怕死了，腳癱了魂不附體了，直到你發現你在說""噢，我的天啊，我正在做這件事。我已經成為它的一部分了，我就是正牌普林斯頓人。""這就是說所做的，五年的研究生生涯我在西北大學待了幾年我後來去了哈佛，我在哈佛，我沒有在想到這件事了但之前有很長一段時間我都在想這件事""不配在這。不應該在這。"" 所以哈佛第一年結束有個整學期在課堂上沒說過一句話的學生我曾經警告她：""你得參與融入否則你會被當""來辦公室見我。其實我壓根就不認識她。她進來時垂頭喪氣，她說""我不配在這裡。""此時此刻，我了解。就在此刻，二件事發生了。我突然明白天啊，我再也沒有這種感覺了。你知道嗎。我再也不這樣感覺了，但她卻是，我懂她。第二件事，她本來就應該在這裡!她可以假裝，她可以成功。所以我跟她說，""當然你應該! 你本來就應該在這裡!""明天起你就假裝你要讓自己充滿力量，你將會—-""(掌聲)(掌聲)""你要走進教室你會發表最棒的評論。""你知道嗎? 她就真的發表了最棒的評論大家都回過神來，他們就好像喔我的天啊，我竟沒有注意到她坐在那裡，你知道嗎? (笑聲) 幾個月後她來找我，我才明白她不僅只是假裝到她成功為止她根本就是從假裝轉變到真實整個人脫胎換骨我想對大家說，不要假裝到你成功先假裝然後終將成真。知道嗎?持續地做直到它內化到你的骨子裡。 最後與大家分享的是小調整，大改變就二分鐘二分鐘，二分鐘，二分鐘在你進行下一場令人緊張的評估情境之前拿出二分鐘，試試看做這個，電梯裡，洗手間，關上房門，就在你的桌子前你就這麼做，規劃你的腦袋能在壓力情境中發揮最大效益提升你的睪固銅，降低你的腎上腺皮質醇千萬別事後才有，噢，我沒把最好那面表現出來那種遺憾而是留下，噢，我得以充分表現表達自己讓他們知道我是怎麼樣的人 在這裡我想要求大家，你知道嘗試高權勢姿勢同時也想請求各位把這項科學分享出去，因為它很簡單這可不是我自大 (笑聲)散發出去，和人分享因為最用得到的人是那些沒有資源和也不懂科技的人沒有社會地位和權勢。把這個傳達給他們因為他們私下就可以做只需要他們的身體，隱私和二分鐘然後這會大大地改變他們生命的結果謝謝 (掌聲)(掌聲)"
