Talk	en	zh-tw
anant_agarwal_why_massively_open_online_courses_still_matter	"I'd like to reimagine education. The last year has seen the invention of a new four-letter word. It starts with an M. MOOC: massive open online courses. Many organizations are offering these online courses to students all over the world, in the millions, for free. Anybody who has an Internet connection and the will to learn can access these great courses from excellent universities and get a credential at the end of it. Now, in this discussion today, I'm going to focus on a different aspect of MOOCs. We are taking what we are learning and the technologies we are developing in the large and applying them in the small to create a blended model of education to really reinvent and reimagine what we do in the classroom. Now, our classrooms could use change. So, here's a classroom at this little three-letter institute in the Northeast of America, MIT. And this was a classroom about 50 or 60 years ago, and this is a classroom today. What's changed? The seats are in color. Whoop-de-do. Education really hasn't changed in the past 500 years. The last big innovation in education was the printing press and the textbooks. Everything else has changed around us. You know, from healthcare to transportation, everything is different, but education hasn't changed. It's also been a real issue in terms of access. So what you see here is not a rock concert. And the person you see at the end of the stage is not Madonna. This is a classroom at the Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria. Now, we've all heard of distance education, but the students way in the back, 200 feet away from the instructor, I think they are undergoing long-distance education. Now, I really believe that we can transform education, both in quality and scale and access, through technology. For example, at edX, we are trying to transform education through online technologies. Given education has been calcified for 500 years, we really cannot think about reengineering it, micromanaging it. We really have to completely reimagine it. It's like going from ox carts to the airplane. Even the infrastructure has to change. Everything has to change. We need to go from lectures on the blackboard to online exercises, online videos. We have to go to interactive virtual laboratories and gamification. We have to go to completely online grading and peer interaction and discussion boards. Everything really has to change. So at edX and a number of other organizations, we are applying these technologies to education through MOOCs to really increase access to education. And you heard of this example, where, when we launched our very first course — and this was an MIT-hard circuits and electronics course — about a year and a half ago, 155,000 students from 162 countries enrolled in this course. And we had no marketing budget. Now, 155,000 is a big number. This number is bigger than the total number of alumni of MIT in its 150-year history. 7,200 students passed the course, and this was a hard course. 7,200 is also a big number. If I were to teach at MIT two semesters every year, I would have to teach for 40 years before I could teach this many students. Now these large numbers are just one part of the story. So today, I want to discuss a different aspect, the other side of MOOCs, take a different perspective. We are taking what we develop and learn in the large and applying it in the small to the classroom, to create a blended model of learning. But before I go into that, let me tell you a story. When my daughter turned 13, became a teenager, she stopped speaking English, and she began speaking this new language. I call it teen-lish. It's a digital language. It's got two sounds: a grunt and a silence. ""Honey, come over for dinner."" ""Hmm."" ""Did you hear me?"" Silence. (Laughter) ""Can you listen to me?"" ""Hmm."" So we had a real issue with communicating, and we were just not communicating, until one day I had this epiphany. I texted her. (Laughter) I got an instant response. I said, no, that must have been by accident. She must have thought, you know, some friend of hers was calling her. So I texted her again. Boom, another response. I said, this is great. And so since then, our life has changed. I text her, she responds. It's just been absolutely great. (Applause) So our millennial generation is built differently. Now, I'm older, and my youthful looks might belie that, but I'm not in the millennial generation. But our kids are really different. The millennial generation is completely comfortable with online technology. So why are we fighting it in the classroom? Let's not fight it. Let's embrace it. In fact, I believe — and I have two fat thumbs, I can't text very well — but I'm willing to bet that with evolution, our kids and their grandchildren will develop really, really little, itty-bitty thumbs to text much better, that evolution will fix all of that stuff. But what if we embraced technology, embraced the millennial generation's natural predilections, and really think about creating these online technologies, blend them into their lives. So here's what we can do. So rather than driving our kids into a classroom, herding them out there at 8 o'clock in the morning — I hated going to class at 8 o'clock in the morning, so why are we forcing our kids to do that? So instead what you do is you have them watch videos and do interactive exercises in the comfort of their dorm rooms, in their bedroom, in the dining room, in the bathroom, wherever they're most creative. Then they come into the classroom for some in-person interaction. They can have discussions amongst themselves. They can solve problems together. They can work with the professor and have the professor answer their questions. In fact, with edX, when we were teaching our first course on circuits and electronics around the world, this was happening unbeknownst to us. Two high school teachers at the Sant High School in Mongolia had flipped their classroom, and they were using our video lectures and interactive exercises, where the learners in the high school, 15-year-olds, mind you, would go and do these things in their own homes and they would come into class, and as you see from this image here, they would interact with each other and do some physical laboratory work. And the only way we discovered this was they wrote a blog and we happened to stumble upon that blog. We were also doing other pilots. So we did a pilot experimental blended courses, working with San Jose State University in California, again, with the circuits and electronics course. You'll hear that a lot. That course has become sort of like our petri dish of learning. So there, the students would, again, the instructors flipped the classroom, blended online and in person, and the results were staggering. Now don't take these results to the bank just yet. Just wait a little bit longer as we experiment with this some more, but the early results are incredible. So traditionally, semester upon semester, for the past several years, this course, again, a hard course, had a failure rate of about 40 to 41 percent every semester. With this blended class late last year, the failure rate fell to nine percent. So the results can be extremely, extremely good. Now before we go too far into this, I'd like to spend some time discussing some key ideas. What are some key ideas that makes all of this work? One idea is active learning. The idea here is, rather than have students walk into class and watch lectures, we replace this with what we call lessons. Lessons are interleaved sequences of videos and interactive exercises. So a student might watch a five-, seven-minute video and follow that with an interactive exercise. Think of this as the ultimate Socratization of education. You teach by asking questions. And this is a form of learning called active learning, and really promoted by a very early paper, in 1972, by Craik and Lockhart, where they said and discovered that learning and retention really relates strongly to the depth of mental processing. Students learn much better when they are interacting with the material. The second idea is self-pacing. Now, when I went to a lecture hall, and if you were like me, by the fifth minute I would lose the professor. I wasn't all that smart, and I would be scrambling, taking notes, and then I would lose the lecture for the rest of the hour. Instead, wouldn't it be nice with online technologies, we offer videos and interactive engagements to students? They can hit the pause button. They can rewind the professor. Heck, they can even mute the professor. So this form of self-pacing can be very helpful to learning. The third idea that we have is instant feedback. With instant feedback, the computer grades exercises. I mean, how else do you teach 150,000 students? Your computer is grading all the exercises. And we've all submitted homeworks, and your grades come back two weeks later, you've forgotten all about it. I don't think I've still received some of my homeworks from my undergraduate days. Some are never graded. So with instant feedback, students can try to apply answers. If they get it wrong, they can get instant feedback. They can try it again and try it again, and this really becomes much more engaging. They get the instant feedback, and this little green check mark that you see here is becoming somewhat of a cult symbol at edX. Learners are telling us that they go to bed at night dreaming of the green check mark. In fact, one of our learners who took the circuits course early last year, he then went on to take a software course from Berkeley at the end of the year, and this is what the learner had to say on our discussion board when he just started that course about the green check mark: ""Oh god; have I missed you."" When's the last time you've seen students posting comments like this about homework? My colleague Ed Bertschinger, who heads up the physics department at MIT, has this to say about instant feedback: He indicated that instant feedback turns teaching moments into learning outcomes. The next big idea is gamification. You know, all learners engage really well with interactive videos and so on. You know, they would sit down and shoot alien spaceships all day long until they get it. So we applied these gamification techniques to learning, and we can build these online laboratories. How do you teach creativity? How do you teach design? We can do this through online labs and use computing power to build these online labs. So as this little video shows here, you can engage students much like they design with Legos. So here, the learners are building a circuit with Lego-like ease. And this can also be graded by the computer. Fifth is peer learning. So here, we use discussion forums and discussions and Facebook-like interaction not as a distraction, but to really help students learn. Let me tell you a story. When we did our circuits course for the 155,000 students, I didn't sleep for three nights leading up to the launch of the course. I told my TAs, okay, 24/7, we're going to be up monitoring the forum, answering questions. They had answered questions for 100 students. How do you do that for 150,000? So one night I'm sitting up there, at 2 a.m. at night, and I think there's this question from a student from Pakistan, and he asked a question, and I said, okay, let me go and type up an answer, I don't type all that fast, and I begin typing up the answer, and before I can finish, another student from Egypt popped in with an answer, not quite right, so I'm fixing the answer, and before I can finish, a student from the U.S. had popped in with a different answer. And then I sat back, fascinated. Boom, boom, boom, boom, the students were discussing and interacting with each other, and by 4 a.m. that night, I'm totally fascinated, having this epiphany, and by 4 a.m. in the morning, they had discovered the right answer. And all I had to do was go and bless it, ""Good answer."" So this is absolutely amazing, where students are learning from each other, and they're telling us that they are learning by teaching. Now this is all not just in the future. This is happening today. So we are applying these blended learning pilots in a number of universities and  high schools around the world, from Tsinghua in China to the National University of Mongolia in Mongolia to Berkeley in California — all over the world. And these kinds of technologies really help, the blended model can really help revolutionize education. It can also solve a practical problem of MOOCs, the business aspect. We can also license these MOOC courses to other universities, and therein lies a revenue model for MOOCs, where the university that licenses it with the professor can use these online courses like the next-generation textbook. They can use as much or as little as they like, and it becomes a tool in the teacher's arsenal. Finally, I would like to have you dream with me for a little bit. I would like us to really reimagine education. We will have to move from lecture halls to e-spaces. We have to move from books to tablets like the Aakash in India or the Raspberry Pi, 20 dollars. The Aakash is 40 dollars. We have to move from bricks-and-mortar school buildings to digital dormitories. But I think at the end of the day, I think we will still need one lecture hall in our universities. Otherwise, how else do we tell our grandchildren that your grandparents sat in that room in neat little rows like cornstalks and watched this professor at the end talk about content and, you know, you didn't even have a rewind button? Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要重新構想教育的樣子，因為去年一個包含4個字母的新字誕生了；是M開頭的「MOOC大規模網路開放課程」。目前有許多組織，為全球數以百萬的學生，提供這樣的免費網路課程。任何人只要有網路連線，和學習意願，就能利用頂尖大學提供的絕佳課程，修畢後還能取得證書。今天這場討論中，我想專注在MOOCs的另一面。我們要應用目前所學，及大量開發的技術，並小幅度地用在發展一套多元教育模式。藉此重塑並重新構想課堂教學活動。 目前的課堂教學需要改革。現在你們看到的是一間教室，這個小學校的名稱有3個字母，就是美國東北部的麻省理工學院(MIT)，拍攝時間是五、六十年前。再來這張是目前的教室，有何不同?椅子變成彩色的了!隨你怎麼說啦!(會心一笑)半世紀以來，教育並無顯著改變；最近的重大教育革新，乃是印刷機與教科書。儘管生活環境已大不相同，從健保到運輸系統莫不如此；但教育不然， 而取得性也始終是一大問題。你們現在看到的畫面，不是搖滾演唱會；在舞台另一頭你所看到的，也不是瑪丹娜。這是奈及利亞奧巴費米•亞沃洛沃大學(Obafemi Awolowo University)的教室我們都聽過「遠距教學」，不過遠在教室後方的學生，跟講師相距200英尺，我想他們當下已親身領教「遠距教學」。我確信透過科技，我們是可以改變教育的，包括品質、規模和取得性。以edX網路課程平台為例，目前我們嘗試以網路科技，改造教育。由於500年來教育僵化，我們實在不敢奢望體制改革或有嚴密監督，我們確實需要重新構想。這就好比從牛車進化到飛機，甚至連基礎建設都必須改變，每樣都要改。我們要從靠黑板講課，往線上練習與影片邁進；再加入互動情境實驗室，並融入遊戲。完全的線上評分機制、同儕互動以及討論版都是我們必須努力的。每件事真的都得改， 所以透過edX和其他組織，我們把這些技術應用於教育，透過MOOCs平台大幅普及教育。各位應該都聽過這案例，當我們推出第一堂難度已達MIT程度的課—-電路與電子學—-這大約是1年半前的事，有15萬5千名 來自162國的學生報名，當時我們毫無行銷預算，15萬5千人算很多了。這數字，比MIT 150年來，累積的校友人數還多。雖只有7千2百人及格，這課程還頗難的，7千2百人也已經很不簡單了！假設在MIT，我每年兩學期都有課，得教40年才能累積那麼多學生。 不過這些大數字，只是事情發展的一部分。今天我要談點別的，MOOCs的另一面，從不同的觀點切入。我們要大幅採用開發習得的技術，並小幅度地應用在課堂中，來創造一種多元教育模式，但在那之前，容我先說一事； 小女13歲時，步入少年時期，這時她不再說英語，改說起另一種新語言，我稱之為「少年語」。那是一種數位語言，只包含兩種聲音:悶哼和沉默。(哄堂大笑)「寶貝!來吃晚飯囉!」 「嗯!」「妳聽到了沒?」「…….」(會心一笑)「聽我說好嗎?」「嗯!」 那時我們之間真的有問題了! 根本無法溝通! 直到有天我靈機一動， 我發簡訊給她(笑聲) ， 結果立刻就有回應。 我本想這一定是巧合，她一定以為是朋友找她。因此我再發一封，咻地就回覆了!我想這太棒了!此後我們的生活就改變了，我發簡訊，她回應，簡直妙不可喻!(觀眾報以掌聲)千禧世代他們的成長經歷不同，我看來沒那麼老，不過不年輕了，也算不上千禧世代；不過我們的下一代的確不同， 千禧世代對網路科技，可說得心應手。那我們為何在課堂上要加以排斥呢?別再抗拒了，接受它吧!因為拇指太粗，我發簡訊不太順，但我真的認為，也敢打包票，我們的子孫後代，會演化出纖纖細指，以便更流暢地發簡訊。這樣的演化會讓事情更容易，若大家欣然接納，這類千禧世代頗有好感的科技，就認真考慮建置這類網路科技，將之融入未來生活，這便是我們能做的。而不是把孩子趕進教室，早上8點就把他們趕去上學而已。我當年便痛恨8點上學，所以何必強迫孩子蕭規曹隨?改變一下做法，讓他們在宿舍房間或臥房，輕鬆地看影片，做互動練習，飯廳浴室也行，只要是能讓他們發揮創意的地方。之後便可回歸教室課堂，進行人際互動，學生可與同儕討論，共同解決問題；也可與教授合作，並向之請益。當我們實際在edX開設第一堂，電路與電子學的全球課程時，事情發展完全出乎預料!2名蒙古國桑特中學(Sant High School)的老師，顛覆了課堂教室，他們用的就是我們的教學影片，還有互動練習。別看這些中學生，不過15歲，但他們會把這些事帶回家做呢!而他們再度回到課堂時，如圖所見的，會彼此交流，做些物理實驗。我們也是無意間，讀了他們的網誌，才恍然大悟的!當時我們也做過其他實驗計畫，像嘗試與加州聖荷西州立大學合作電路與電子學的多元教育課程。未來你們會更常聽到這門課， 這儼然已是我們促進學習的法寶，這樣的課堂上，學生一樣經由設計過的課程，顛覆課堂學習，而且藉網路教學與親授並進，成效卓著。不過這些結果還不足以定論，儘管初步結果挺驚人的!但還需更長期的實驗佐證。過去數年來，這堂頗難的課，每學期總是會當掉大約40 – 41%的人。去年稍晚，這門多元教育課程，不及格率降至9 %，成效可說十分良好。不過在更深入前，我想撥點時間討論，一些重要的概念，是甚麼樣的重大觀念，讓這樣的課程有效? 其中之一就是主動學習，內蘊的理念就是：與其要學生進教室看教學影片，我們改採所謂的「課程」；在順序進度上 交錯參雜影片與互動練習，學生可看一段5到7分鐘的影片，接著做互動練習，就當這是極致的蘇格拉底式教育，以反詰來教學。這種方式就是，主動學習。克雷克(Fergus I. M. Craik)和洛克哈特(Lockhart)，早在1972時便倡導這種方式，在論文中他們發現並主張學習與記憶密切相關。使用教材時，涉入的心智歷程越深，學習成效越好。再來談自主學習的概念，進入課堂的時候，假設你們和我一樣，不到5分鐘就聽不懂了；因不夠聰明，所以拼命做筆記， 結果接下來的課跟不上。反觀網路科技在這方面不就很好?學生有影片和互動成分可用；可暫停；可倒帶讓教授再說一次；還可按靜音要教授閉嘴。這樣的自主方式，對學習很有幫助，第三個概念是立即回饋，有了這個技術，電腦就可批閱習題，不然要怎樣教15萬名學生呢?而電腦則可勝任所有評分工作。 以前我們交作業後，兩週後才會收到成績，到時早忘了這回事。我認為大學時交出去的作業，有些沒發回來，有些甚至根本沒批改過。藉由立即回饋，學生可查看成績；若答錯了也能立刻知道，能反覆嘗試練習，還有立即回饋，這樣學更有趣。這個綠色勾選記號，已有edX精神象徵的態勢。學生跟我們說，他們晚上就寢時，腦中縈繞的都是這個記號。真的，一位去年稍早修過電路學的學生，去年底又去修柏克萊大學的軟體課程。這學生剛開始上課時，曾對綠色答對記號在課程討論區發表過這樣的看法：「天啊！我開始懷念起答對記號了！」各位何曾見過學生，在網上發表對作業的看法？我的同事艾迪．白辛格（Ed Bertschinger）也就是MIT物理系系主任，對即時回饋是這麼形容的。他表示即時回饋在教學當下便能產生學習效果。我們接著要談的重要概念是寓教於樂，對互動影片一類的東西，所有學生都能融入其中。他們願意整天坐在那，打外星艦隊的射擊遊戲，直到破關。 因此我們把學習融入遊戲中，像是網路實驗室。至於創意和設計該怎麼教，網路實驗室便派得上用場。就可建構這些網路實驗室。就可建構這些網路實驗室。如同短片中看到的，學生能夠參與其中，就很像他們排列樂高積木一樣。這是學生在作電路規劃，感覺就像玩樂高一樣輕鬆，而且同樣能以電腦評分。第五點是同伴協同學習，這部分我們用的是論壇、相互討論以及類似臉書的互動機制。這不是要讓學生分心，而是有效促進學習。 讓我說個故事，電路學有15萬5千名學生，快要開課時，為了備課，我熬夜3天。我跟助教說，為了主持論壇和回覆問題等，我們會需要全天待命。他們幫100位學生解答過問題，不過15萬名學生要怎麽應付？話說有一晚我半夜2點還脫不了身，我記得當時有人問了個問題，是一名巴基斯坦的學生問的。既然他問了，我心想，好吧！讓我把答案打上去。不過我打字不算快。於是我開始輸入答案，不過我還沒完成，一位埃及學生就上線解答了。只不過並非完全正確，所以我加以修正，同樣地，一位美國的學生,搶在我完成前提供另一個答案。我索性袖手旁觀，但覺十分有趣。眼看線上學生數激增，且彼此互動討論深夜還不到4點，我已完全投入其中，為此深受啟發。而學生也在凌晨4點前，就找出正確答案。我只需表示肯定，說聲:「答得好」就夠了！學生籍機彼此學習，這點真的令人非常驚喜。何況學生還告訴我們，教同學也讓他們學到不少。我現在說的不只是未來，現在就已經實現了。目前我們聯合全球許多高中和大學，試行這些多元學習計劃。包括中國的清華大學、以及 蒙古的國立蒙古大學，還有美國加州的柏克萊大學，其應用可謂遍布全球。這類科技真的幫了不少忙，而多元教育模式確實能大幅改革教育，還能解決MOOCs所面臨的一項實際問題，也就是營運。我們還可對其他大學開放MOOC的授權，這樣MOOCs就有盈利方式了。取得授權的任課教授，就可把這些線上課程當成新版教課書，且可自行決定使用率，教材資源也會更豐富。最後我想請大家和我共享一點夢想；讓我們再次想像教育的樣貌,教育將由實體課堂延伸到虛擬空閒，我們該嘗試書本以外的平板了。 像印度推行的，Aakash平板，或是20美元的樹莓派電腦（Raspberry Pi）；Aakash要價40美元。我們必須從學校建築延伸到數位化的寢室。不過我認為到頭來，大學中的教室，還是有其必要性。不然怎能跟自己的孫兒輩說，爺爺奶奶曾在那間教室， 像玉米稈一般整齊端坐，看著彼端的教授，而且說到課堂內容，當時連倒帶鍵都沒有。謝謝大家！（掌聲）謝謝！謝謝！（觀眾紛紛起立鼓掌）
