Talk	en	zh-tw
anders_fjellberg_two_nameless_bodies_washed_up_on_the_beach_here_are_their_stories	"So this right here is the tiny village of Elle, close to Lista. It's right at the southernmost tip of Norway. And on January 2 this year, an elderly guy who lives in the village, he went out to see what was cast ashore during a recent storm. And on a patch of grass right next to the water's edge, he found a wetsuit. It was grey and black, and he thought it looked cheap. Out of each leg of the wetsuit there were sticking two white bones. It was clearly the remains of a human being. And usually, in Norway, dead people are identified quickly. So the police started searching through missing reports from the local area, national missing reports, and looked for accidents with a possible connection. They found nothing. So they ran a DNA profile, and they started searching internationally through Interpol. Nothing. This was a person that nobody seemed to be missing. It was an invisible life heading for a nameless grave. But then, after a month, the police in Norway got a message from the police in the Netherlands. A couple of months earlier, they had found a body, in an identical wetsuit, and they had no idea who this person was. But the police in the Netherlands managed to trace the wetsuit by an RFID chip that was sewn in the suit. So they were then able to tell that both wetsuits were bought by the same customer at the same time, October 7, 2014, in the French city of Calais by the English Channel. But this was all they were able to figure out. The customer paid cash. There was no surveillance footage from the shop. So it became a cold case. We heard this story, and it triggered me and my colleague, photographer Tomm Christiansen, and we of course had the obvious question: who were these people? At the time, I'd barely heard about Calais, but it took about two or three seconds to figure out Calais is basically known for two things. It's the spot in continental Europe closest to Britain, and a lot of migrants and refugees are staying in this camp and are trying desperately to cross over to Britain. And right there was a plausible theory about the identity of the two people, and the police made this theory as well. Because if you or I or anybody else with a firm connection to Europe goes missing off the coast of France, people would just know. Your friends or family would report you missing, the police would come search for you, the media would know, and there would be pictures of you on lampposts. It's difficult to disappear without a trace. But if you just fled the war in Syria, and your family, if you have any family left, don't necessarily know where you are, and you're staying here illegally amongst thousands of others who come and go every day. Well, if you disappear one day, nobody will notice. The police won't come search for you because nobody knows you're gone. And this is what happened to Shadi Omar Kataf and Mouaz Al Balkhi from Syria. Me and Tomm went to Calais for the first time in April this year, and after three months of investigation, we were able to tell the story about how these two young men fled the war in Syria, ended up stuck in Calais, bought wetsuits and drowned in what seems to have been an attempt to swim across the English Channel in order to reach England. It is a story about the fact that everybody has a name, everybody has a story, everybody is someone. But it is also a story about what it's like to be a refugee in Europe today. So this is where we started our search. This is in Calais. Right now, between 3,500 and 5,000 people are living here under horrible conditions. It has been dubbed the worst refugee camp in Europe. Limited access to food, limited access to water, limited access to health care. Disease and infections are widespread. And they're all stuck here because they're trying to get to England in order to claim asylum. And they do that by hiding in the back of trucks headed for the ferry, or the Eurotunnel, or they sneak inside the tunnel terminal at night to try to hide on the trains. Most want to go to Britain because they know the language, and so they figure it would be easier to restart their lives from there. They want to work, they want to study, they want to be able to continue their lives. A lot of these people are highly educated and skilled workers. If you go to Calais and talk to refugees, you'll meet lawyers, politicians, engineers, graphic designers, farmers, soldiers. You've got the whole spectrum. But who all of these people are usually gets lost in the way we talk about refugees and migrants, because we usually do that in statistics. So you have 60 million refugees globally. About half a million have made the crossing over the Mediterranean into Europe so far this year, and roughly 4,000 are staying in Calais. But these are numbers, and the numbers don't say anything about who these people are, where they came from, or why they're here. And first, I want to tell you about one of them. This is 22-year-old Mouaz Al Balkhi from Syria. We first heard about him after being in Calais the first time looking for answers to the theory of the two dead bodies. And after a while, we heard this story about a Syrian man who was living in Bradford in England, and had been desperately searching for his nephew Mouaz for months. And it turned out the last time anybody had heard anything from Mouaz was October 7, 2014. That was the same date the wetsuits were bought. So we flew over there and we met the uncle and we did DNA samples of him, and later on got additional DNA samples from Mouaz's closest relative who now lives in Jordan. The analysis concluded the body who was found in a wetsuit on a beach in the Netherlands was actually Mouaz Al Balkhi. And while we were doing all this investigation, we got to know Mouaz's story. He was born in the Syrian capital of Damascus in 1991. He was raised in a middle class family, and his father in the middle there is a chemical engineer who spent 11 years in prison for belonging to the political opposition in Syria. While his father was in prison, Mouaz took responsibility and he cared for his three sisters. They said he was that kind of guy. Mouaz studied to become an electrical engineer at the University of Damascus. So a couple of years into the Syrian war, the family fled Damascus and went to the neighboring country, Jordan. Their father had problems finding work in Jordan, and Mouaz could not continue his studies, so he figured, ""OK, the best thing I can do to help my family would be to go somewhere where I can finish my studies and find work."" So he goes to Turkey. In Turkey, he's not accepted at a university, and once he had left Jordan as a refugee, he was not allowed to reenter. So then he decides to head for the UK, where his uncle lives. He makes it into Algeria, walks into Libya, pays a people smuggler to help him with the crossing into Italy by boat, and from there on he heads to Dunkirk, the city right next to Calais by the English Channel. We know he made at least 12 failed attempts to cross the English Channel by hiding in a truck. But at some point, he must have given up all hope. The last night we know he was alive, he spent at a cheap hotel close to the train station in Dunkirk. We found his name in the records, and he seems to have stayed there alone. The day after, he went into Calais, entered a sports shop a couple of minutes before 8 o'clock in the evening, along with Shadi Kataf. They both bought wetsuits, and the woman in the shop was the last person we know of to have seen them alive. We have tried to figure out where Shadi met Mouaz, but we weren't able to do that. But they do have a similar story. We first heard about Shadi after a cousin of his, living in Germany, had read an Arabic translation of the story made of Mouaz on Facebook. So we got in touch with him. Shadi, a couple of years older than Mouaz, was also raised in Damascus. He was a working kind of guy. He ran a tire repair shop and later worked in a printing company. He lived with his extended family, but their house got bombed early in the war. So the family fled to an area of Damascus known as Camp Yarmouk. Yarmouk is being described as the worst place to live on planet Earth. They've been bombed by the military, they've been besieged, they've been stormed by ISIS and they've been cut off from supplies for years. There was a UN official who visited last year, and he said, ""They ate all the grass so there was no grass left."" Out of a population of 150,000, only 18,000 are believed to still be left in Yarmouk. Shadi and his sisters got out. The parents are still stuck inside. So Shadi and one of his sisters, they fled to Libya. This was after the fall of Gaddafi, but before Libya turned into full-blown civil war. And in this last remaining sort of stability in Libya, Shadi took up scuba diving, and he seemed to spend most of his time underwater. He fell completely in love with the ocean, so when he finally decided that he could no longer be in Libya, late August 2014, he hoped to find work as a diver when he reached Italy. Reality was not that easy. We don't know much about his travels because he had a hard time communicating with his family, but we do know that he struggled. And by the end of September, he was living on the streets somewhere in France. On October 7, he calls his cousin in Belgium, and explains his situation. He said, ""I'm in Calais. I need you to come get my backpack and my laptop. I can't afford to pay the people smugglers to help me with the crossing to Britain, but I will go buy a wetsuit and I will swim."" His cousin, of course, tried to warn him not to, but Shadi's battery on the phone went flat, and his phone was never switched on again. What was left of Shadi was found nearly three months later, 800 kilometers away in a wetsuit on a beach in Norway. He's still waiting for his funeral in Norway, and none of his family will be able to attend. Many may think that the story about Shadi and Mouaz is a story about death, but I don't agree. To me, this is a story about two questions that I think we all share: what is a better life, and what am I willing to do to achieve it? And to me, and probably a lot of you, a better life would mean being able to do more of what we think of as meaningful, whether that be spending more time with your family and friends, travel to an exotic place, or just getting money to buy that cool new device or a pair of new sneakers. And this is all within our reach pretty easily. But if you are fleeing a war zone, the answers to those two questions are dramatically different. A better life is a life in safety. It's a life in dignity. A better life means not having your house bombed, not fearing being kidnapped. It means being able to send your children to school, go to university, or just find work to be able to provide for yourself and the ones you love. A better life would be a future of some possibilities compared to nearly none, and that's a strong motivation. And I have no trouble imagining that after spending weeks or even months as a second-grade citizen, living on the streets or in a horrible makeshift camp with a stupid, racist name like ""The Jungle,"" most of us would be willing to do just about anything. If I could ask Shadi and Mouaz the second they stepped into the freezing waters of the English Channel, they would probably say, ""This is worth the risk,"" because they could no longer see any other option. And that's desperation, but that's the reality of living as a refugee in Western Europe in 2015. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Anders. This is Tomm Christiansen, who took most of the pictures you have seen and they've done reporting together. Tomm, you two have been back to Calais recently. This was the third trip. It was after the publication of the article. What has changed? What have you seen there? Tomm Christiansen: The first time we were in Calais, it was about 1,500 refugees there. They had a difficult time, but they were positive, they had hope. The last time, the camp has grown, maybe four or five thousand people. It seemed more permanent, NGOs have arrived, a small school has opened. But the thing is that the refugees have stayed for a longer time, and the French government has managed to seal off the borders better, so now The Jungle is growing, along with the despair and hopelessness among the refugees. BG: Are you planning to go back? And continue the reporting? TC: Yes. BG: Anders, I'm a former journalist, and to me, it's amazing that in the current climate of slashing budgets and publishers in crisis, Dagbladet has consented so many resources for this story, which tells a lot about newspapers taking the responsibility, but how did you sell it to your editors? Anders Fjellberg: It wasn't easy at first, because we weren't able to know what we actually could figure out. As soon as it became clear that we actually could be able to identify who the first one was, we basically got the message that we could do whatever we wanted, just travel wherever you need to go, do whatever you need to do, just get this done. BG: That's an editor taking responsibility. The story, by the way, has been translated and published across several European countries, and certainly will continue to do. And we want to read the updates from you. Thank you Anders. Thank you Tomm. (Applause)"	這個地方是個小村落，名為：耶拉。離利斯塔不遠。位於挪威的最南端。在今年 1 月 2 日，一位住在村裡的老人，到海岸查看有無什麼東西在最近的暴風中沖上岸。在海邊的小草地上，發現了一套潛水裝。灰黑的潛水裝，覺得看起來廉價。但在兩條褲腿處，有兩條白骨，顯然是人類的遺體。 在挪威，死者遺體通常很快能辨識身分，於是警方開始搜尋地方的失蹤人口、全國的失蹤人口、以及可能關聯的意外事件。可是什麼也沒找到。於是就進行 DNA 檢測，並與國際刑警組織搜尋資料。也沒有結果。這個人似乎不是失蹤人口。是個無形的生命走向無名的墳墓。然而，一個月後，挪威警方收到荷蘭警方的訊息。兩個月前，他們發現一具遺體在相同的潛水衣內，他們也不知道死者是誰。荷蘭警方透過潛水衣上的RFID 晶片，追蹤來源。他們發現這兩套潛水衣為：同一人、同時間購買，那天是 2004 年 10 月 7 日，在英吉利海峽附近的法國加萊市。他們僅能查到這些。購買者以現金支付。商店沒有監視器的影像。就此成了懸案。 我們聽到這個故事，引發了我和同事攝影師湯姆‧克里斯琴森的興趣。顯然的疑問是：這兩個人是誰？那時，我對加萊市沒什麼印象，我很快地想一下，加萊市有兩個著名的特色：是歐洲最接近英國的地點，許多移民或難民住在難民營且希望能夠橫跨越英國。在那裡，有一個關於辨識這兩人身分的理論，警方也有一樣的理論。因為任何與歐洲有淵源的人在法國海岸附近失蹤了，有人會知道。你的親友會去提報失蹤，警察會調查，媒體會報導，你的照片會貼在燈柱上。很難失蹤卻無留下線索。但如果你是敘利亞的難民，如果你還有家人在身邊，家人不見得知道你在哪。若是你是非法入境者，住在每天有上萬人來往的地方。如果你失蹤了，沒人會注意。警察不會調查，因為沒人知道你失蹤。 這發生在來自敘利亞的薩帝和摩艾茲身上。 我和湯姆在今年 4 月第一次到加萊市。三個月的調查後，我們可以講這兩個年輕男子故事。他們逃離了敘利亞的戰亂，困在加萊市，買了潛水裝，似乎在企圖橫渡英吉利海峽到英國的途中溺死。這個故事是要告訴大家每個人都有一個名字，每個人都有故事、都是某個重要的人。但是，這故事也是有關歐洲難民的現況。 我們從這兒開始搜尋。這是加萊市。目前約住了 3500 到 5000 人，居住的環境非常糟糕。是公認歐洲最差的難民營。食物和水都很缺乏，有限的醫療資源。疾病和感染很普遍。困在這裡，只為了企圖前往英國申請政治庇護。他們躲在卡車後車斗，前往渡口或歐洲隧道。或者深夜潛入隧道火車站內然後藏身火車裡。 大部分人去英國是因為會說英語，所以覺得在那裡重新生活會更容易。他們希望工作，他們希望學習，他們希望能夠繼續生活。有許多是高學歷的人和技術工人。如果你去加萊市和難民聊，你會見到律師、政治家、工程師、平面設計師、農人、軍人。各行各業都有。但這些人是誰的問題通常在我們討論難民和移民時，會被忽略掉，因為我們只看統計數字。 全球有 6000 萬難民。今年約 50 萬難民橫越地中海來到歐洲，約 4000 人留在加萊市。這些只是數字，數字並不能顯示這些人是誰、從哪裡來，或為何留在這裡。 首先，我想談談其中一位。這是來自敘利亞，22 歲的摩艾茲。我們第一次來到加萊市尋找此二具屍體的答案時，聽到他的傳聞。過不久，我們聽到一位敘利亞男子住在英國布拉福鎮的故事，數月來，他拼命在尋找侄子摩艾茲。結果，2014 年 10 月 7 日後摩艾茲就失去下落。就是摩艾茲購買潛水衣的那一天。我們飛到那裡去見他叔叔，我們拿到 DNA 樣本，後來，我們也拿到住在約旦，摩艾茲近親的DNA樣本。分析結論是：荷蘭海灘發現的潛水衣內屍體，就是摩艾茲。當我們調查時，得知摩艾茲的故事。1991 年， 他出生於敘利亞首都大馬士革。成長於中產階級家庭，相片中間是他的父親，是化學工程師。因為屬於敘利亞政治反對派而被監禁了 11 年。在父親被監禁期間，摩艾茲扛起照顧三姐妹的重擔。據說他就是那種負責的人。摩艾茲就讀電機工程系，就學於大馬士革大學。 敘利亞陷入內戰數年，全家逃離大馬士革，前往鄰國約旦。父親在約旦找不到工作，所以，摩艾茲無法完成學業，他想：「好，能幫助家裡的最佳選擇是去一個可以同時完成學業和工作的地方。」所以他去土耳其。 在土耳其，他沒取得入學許可，一旦以難民身分離開約旦，他就無法再回去。所以，他決定去英國，找他的叔叔。他進入阿爾及利亞，走到利比亞，花錢請人口販子協助搭船到義大利，再繼續來到法國敦克爾克，旁邊就是臨英吉利海峽的加萊市。我們知道他至少 12 次躲進卡車，嘗試橫渡英吉利海峽。某個時候，他一定是放棄了所有希望。他活著的最後一夜，住進敦克爾克火車站附近的廉價旅館。住房紀錄裡找到他的名字，他似乎是獨自一人。隔日，他到加萊市，逛進運動用品店，晚上八點前幾分鐘，與薩帝在一起。他們都買了潛水衣。店裡的女士是最後看到他們活著的人。我們想知道薩帝在哪裡遇到摩艾茲，但是徒勞無功。但他們有類似的故事。我們透過薩帝住在德國的表親得知他的故事。他的表親在臉書上讀到有關摩艾茲的阿拉伯語翻譯文章，所以我們與這位表親聯繫上了。薩帝比摩艾茲大幾歲，也是在大馬士革長大。他是藍領階級的人。先是開了一間輪胎修理店，後來任職一家印刷公司。他出身大家庭，但是房子在內戰早期就被炸毀。所以舉家逃到大馬士革的耶爾穆克難民營。 耶爾穆克難民營公認為地球上居住環境最差的地方，曾被軍隊轟炸，也曾被包圍，也曾被 ISIS 襲擊。他們的補給已被切斷多年。去年，一位聯合國的代表來訪，他說：「他們把草全吃光，所以草都沒了。」15 萬人口中，只有 1 萬 8 千人還留在耶爾穆克難民營。薩帝和他的姐妹們逃出來。他們的父母還困在裡面。 薩帝和一位姐妹逃到利比亞。那是在格達費倒台後，利比亞開始全面內戰前。在最後利比亞還算穩定時，薩帝學習潛水，且大部分的時間都在水裡。他完全愛上了大海，所以在 2014 年八月下旬，當他決定離開利比亞時，他希望到義大利後，能找到潛水夫的工作。事與願違。我們對他的旅程所知不多，因為與家人聯繫困難。但是我們知道他很掙扎。在九月下旬，他流浪在法國街頭。在 10 月 7 日，他打電話給比利時的表親，告訴他狀況。他說：「我在加萊市，你來拿我的背包和筆電。我付不起人口販子來幫我偷渡英國，但我會買一套潛水衣游過去。」當然，他的表親嘗試勸阻他，但薩帝的手機電池沒電了，從此手機就沒再打開。薩帝的屍體大約三個月後被發現，800 公里外，在潛水衣內，在挪威的海灘。他仍然在挪威等待他的葬禮，但是沒有一個家人能夠參加。 許多人可能認為薩帝和摩艾茲的故事是有關死亡的故事，我不同意。對我而言，這是一個有關我們共同面對的議題：什麼是更好的生活？以及我願意付出什麼代價去實現它？對我，以及大多數人而言，更好的生活意味著能夠做更多我們認為有意義的事，無論是多與親朋好友在一起、前往異國旅遊、有錢買新酷玩意，或者一雙新運動鞋。這些都是我們能力所及。 但是如果你正逃離戰區，這兩個問題的回答就顯然不同。更好的生活是「安全」的生活，是「尊嚴」的生活，更好的生活意味著房子不會被轟炸、不用害怕綁架。意味著可以讓孩子上學、上大學，或者只是找到工作以養活自己和所愛的人。更好的生活是「有一些可能」的未來，而非「全都不可能」的未來，是一個強烈的動機。我可以想像，在數週甚至數月期間，被當成二等公民，流落街頭，或住在恐怖的臨時營地，住在被冠上愚蠢和種族歧視名字的「叢林」難民營時，大多數人都會竭盡所能去做任何事改變現況。如果我可以問薩帝和摩艾茲，在他們踏入英吉利海峽的冰冷海水那一剎那，他們可能會回答：「這值得我冒險，」因為他們無法看到任何其它選擇。那是絕望，而這是 2015 年生活在西歐的難民真實情況。 謝謝！ （掌聲） 布魯諾·朱薩尼：謝謝你，安德斯。這是湯姆‧克里斯琴森，他拍了大部分相片，一起做這個報導。湯姆，你們兩位最近回到加萊市。這是第三次，在發表這個文章之後去的。那裡有改變嗎？你們看到什麼？ 湯姆：我們第一次去開加萊市時，那裡有大約 1500 位難民。他們生活很困難，但很樂觀，懷抱希望。最後一次去時，營內人數大增，也許有四、五千人。似乎變成永久性，民間組織到了那裡，也開了一所學校。但是難民在那裡已經住得很久，法國政府也設法將邊境守得更緊，所以「叢林」難民營仍然擴大中，難民中的絕望亦然。 BG：你們計劃再回去那裡嗎？會繼續報導嗎？ TC：會。 BG：安德斯，我以前也是記者，對我而言，我很驚訝，在當前的削減預算氛圍和出版商的危機中，挪威日報同意為這個故事提供資源，這顯示了報紙承擔的責任，你們如何說服主編的？ 安德斯： 一開始時不太容易，因為我們無法預測可以發現多少。事情明朗後，我們馬上知道第一位是誰，基本上我們就取得同意，可以繼續調查，到任何該去的地方，做任何該做的事，只要把事情做好。 BG： 那就是勇於負責的編輯。這個故事，順便說一下，已經被翻譯成多國語言，橫跨幾個歐洲國家出版了，而且會繼續如此。我們希望能知道後續情況。謝謝你，安德斯。謝謝你，湯姆。 （掌聲）
