Talk	en	zh-tw
andrew_solomon_love_no_matter_what	"""Even in purely non-religious terms, homosexuality represents a misuse of the sexual faculty. It is a pathetic little second-rate substitute for reality — a pitiable flight from life. As such, it deserves no compassion, it deserves no treatment as minority martyrdom, and it deserves not to be deemed anything but a pernicious sickness."" That's from Time magazine in 1966, when I was three years old. And last year, the president of the United States came out in favor of gay marriage. (Applause) And my question is, how did we get from there to here? How did an illness become an identity? When I was perhaps six years old, I went to a shoe store with my mother and my brother. And at the end of buying our shoes, the salesman said to us that we could each have a balloon to take home. My brother wanted a red balloon, and I wanted a pink balloon. My mother said that she thought I'd really rather have a blue balloon. But I said that I definitely wanted the pink one. And she reminded me that my favorite color was blue. The fact that my favorite color now is blue, but I'm still gay — (Laughter) — is evidence of both my mother's influence and its limits. (Laughter) (Applause) When I was little, my mother used to say, ""The love you have for your children is like no other feeling in the world. And until you have children, you don't know what it's like."" And when I was little, I took it as the greatest compliment in the world that she would say that about parenting my brother and me. And when I was an adolescent, I thought that I'm gay, and so I probably can't have a family. And when she said it, it made me anxious. And after I came out of the closet, when she continued to say it, it made me furious. I said, ""I'm gay. That's not the direction that I'm headed in. And I want you to stop saying that."" About 20 years ago, I was asked by my editors at The New York Times Magazine to write a piece about deaf culture. And I was rather taken aback. I had thought of deafness entirely as an illness. Those poor people, they couldn't hear. They lacked hearing, and what could we do for them? And then I went out into the deaf world. I went to deaf clubs. I saw performances of deaf theater and of deaf poetry. I even went to the Miss Deaf America contest in Nashville, Tennessee where people complained about that slurry Southern signing. (Laughter) And as I plunged deeper and deeper into the deaf world, I become convinced that deafness was a culture and that the people in the deaf world who said, ""We don't lack hearing, we have membership in a culture,"" were saying something that was viable. It wasn't my culture, and I didn't particularly want to rush off and join it, but I appreciated that it was a culture and that for the people who were members of it, it felt as valuable as Latino culture or gay culture or Jewish culture. It felt as valid perhaps even as American culture. Then a friend of a friend of mine had a daughter who was a dwarf. And when her daughter was born, she suddenly found herself confronting questions that now began to seem quite resonant to me. She was facing the question of what to do with this child. Should she say, ""You're just like everyone else but a little bit shorter?"" Or should she try to construct some kind of dwarf identity, get involved in the Little People of America, become aware of what was happening for dwarfs? And I suddenly thought, most deaf children are born to hearing parents. Those hearing parents tend to try to cure them. Those deaf people discover community somehow in adolescence. Most gay people are born to straight parents. Those straight parents often want them to function in what they think of as the mainstream world, and those gay people have to discover identity later on. And here was this friend of mine looking at these questions of identity with her dwarf daughter. And I thought, there it is again: A family that perceives itself to be normal with a child who seems to be extraordinary. And I hatched the idea that there are really two kinds of identity. There are vertical identities, which are passed down generationally from parent to child. Those are things like ethnicity, frequently nationality, language, often religion. Those are things you have in common with your parents and with your children. And while some of them can be difficult, there's no attempt to cure them. You can argue that it's harder in the United States — our current presidency notwithstanding — to be a person of color. And yet, we have nobody who is trying to ensure that the next generation of children born to African-Americans and Asians come out with creamy skin and yellow hair. There are these other identities which you have to learn from a peer group. And I call them horizontal identities, because the peer group is the horizontal experience. These are identities that are alien to your parents and that you have to discover when you get to see them in peers. And those identities, those horizontal identities, people have almost always tried to cure. And I wanted to look at what the process is through which people who have those identities come to a good relationship with them. And it seemed to me that there were three levels of acceptance that needed to take place. There's self-acceptance, there's family acceptance, and there's social acceptance. And they don't always coincide. And a lot of the time, people who have these conditions are very angry because they feel as though their parents don't love them, when what actually has happened is that their parents don't accept them. Love is something that ideally is there unconditionally throughout the relationship between a parent and a child. But acceptance is something that takes time. It always takes time. One of the dwarfs I got to know was a guy named Clinton Brown. When he was born, he was diagnosed with diastrophic dwarfism, a very disabling condition, and his parents were told that he would never walk, he would never talk, he would have no intellectual capacity, and he would probably not even recognize them. And it was suggested to them that they leave him at the hospital so that he could die there quietly. And his mother said she wasn't going to do it. And she took her son home. And even though she didn't have a lot of educational or financial advantages, she found the best doctor in the country for dealing with diastrophic dwarfism, and she got Clinton enrolled with him. And in the course of his childhood, he had 30 major surgical procedures. And he spent all this time stuck in the hospital while he was having those procedures, as a result of which he now can walk. And while he was there, they sent tutors around to help him with his school work. And he worked very hard because there was nothing else to do. And he ended up achieving at a level that had never before been contemplated by any member of his family. He was the first one in his family, in fact, to go to college, where he lived on campus and drove a specially-fitted car that accommodated his unusual body. And his mother told me this story of coming home one day — and he went to college nearby — and she said, ""I saw that car, which you can always recognize, in the parking lot of a bar,"" she said. (Laughter) ""And I thought to myself, they're six feet tall, he's three feet tall. Two beers for them is four beers for him."" She said, ""I knew I couldn't go in there and interrupt him, but I went home, and I left him eight messages on his cell phone."" She said, ""And then I thought, if someone had said to me when he was born that my future worry would be that he'd go drinking and driving with his college buddies — "" (Applause) And I said to her, ""What do you think you did that helped him to emerge as this charming, accomplished, wonderful person?"" And she said, ""What did I do? I loved him, that's all. Clinton just always had that light in him. And his father and I were lucky enough to be the first to see it there."" I'm going to quote from another magazine of the '60s. This one is from 1968 — The Atlantic Monthly, voice of liberal America — written by an important bioethicist. He said, ""There is no reason to feel guilty about putting a Down syndrome child away, whether it is put away in the sense of hidden in a sanitarium or in a more responsible, lethal sense. It is sad, yes — dreadful. But it carries no guilt. True guilt arises only from an offense against a person, and a Down's is not a person."" There's been a lot of ink given to the enormous progress that we've made in the treatment of gay people. The fact that our attitude has changed is in the headlines every day. But we forget how we used to see people who had other differences, how we used to see people who were disabled, how inhuman we held people to be. And the change that's been accomplished there, which is almost equally radical, is one that we pay not very much attention to. One of the families I interviewed, Tom and Karen Robards, were taken aback when, as young and successful New Yorkers, their first child was diagnosed with Down syndrome. They thought the educational opportunities for him were not what they should be, and so they decided they would build a little center — two classrooms that they started with a few other parents — to educate kids with D.S. And over the years, that center grew into something called the Cooke Center, where there are now thousands upon thousands of children with intellectual disabilities who are being taught. In the time since that Atlantic Monthly story ran, the life expectancy for people with Down syndrome has tripled. The experience of Down syndrome people includes those who are actors, those who are writers, some who are able to live fully independently in adulthood. The Robards had a lot to do with that. And I said, ""Do you regret it? Do you wish your child didn't have Down syndrome? Do you wish you'd never heard of it?"" And interestingly his father said, ""Well, for David, our son, I regret it, because for David, it's a difficult way to be in the world, and I'd like to give David an easier life. But I think if we lost everyone with Down syndrome, it would be a catastrophic loss."" And Karen Robards said to me, ""I'm with Tom. For David, I would cure it in an instant to give him an easier life. But speaking for myself — well, I would never have believed 23 years ago when he was born that I could come to such a point — speaking for myself, it's made me so much better and so much kinder and so much more purposeful in my whole life, that speaking for myself, I wouldn't give it up for anything in the world."" We live at a point when social acceptance for these and many other conditions is on the up and up. And yet we also live at the moment when our ability to eliminate those conditions has reached a height we never imagined before. Most deaf infants born in the United States now will receive Cochlear implants, which are put into the brain and connected to a receiver, and which allow them to acquire a facsimile of hearing and to use oral speech. A compound that has been tested in mice, BMN-111, is useful in preventing the action of the achondroplasia gene. Achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism, and mice who have been given that substance and who have the achondroplasia gene, grow to full size. Testing in humans is around the corner. There are blood tests which are making progress that would pick up Down syndrome more clearly and earlier in pregnancies than ever before, making it easier and easier for people to eliminate those pregnancies, or to terminate them. And so we have both social progress and medical progress. And I believe in both of them. I believe the social progress is fantastic and meaningful and wonderful, and I think the same thing about the medical progress. But I think it's a tragedy when one of them doesn't see the other. And when I see the way they're intersecting in conditions like the three I've just described, I sometimes think it's like those moments in grand opera when the hero realizes he loves the heroine at the exact moment that she lies expiring on a divan. (Laughter) We have to think about how we feel about cures altogether. And a lot of the time the question of parenthood is, what do we validate in our children, and what do we cure in them? Jim Sinclair, a prominent autism activist, said, ""When parents say 'I wish my child did not have autism,' what they're really saying is 'I wish the child I have did not exist and I had a different, non-autistic child instead.' Read that again. This is what we hear when you mourn over our existence. This is what we hear when you pray for a cure — that your fondest wish for us is that someday we will cease to be and strangers you can love will move in behind our faces."" It's a very extreme point of view, but it points to the reality that people engage with the life they have and they don't want to be cured or changed or eliminated. They want to be whoever it is that they've come to be. One of the families I interviewed for this project was the family of Dylan Klebold who was one of the perpetrators of the Columbine massacre. It took a long time to persuade them to talk to me, and once they agreed, they were so full of their story that they couldn't stop telling it. And the first weekend I spent with them — the first of many — I recorded more than 20 hours of conversation. And on Sunday night, we were all exhausted. We were sitting in the kitchen. Sue Klebold was fixing dinner. And I said, ""If Dylan were here now, do you have a sense of what you'd want to ask him?"" And his father said, ""I sure do. I'd want to ask him what the hell he thought he was doing."" And Sue looked at the floor, and she thought for a minute. And then she looked back up and said, ""I would ask him to forgive me for being his mother and never knowing what was going on inside his head."" When I had dinner with her a couple of years later — one of many dinners that we had together — she said, ""You know, when it first happened, I used to wish that I had never married, that I had never had children. If I hadn't gone to Ohio State and crossed paths with Tom, this child wouldn't have existed and this terrible thing wouldn't have happened. But I've come to feel that I love the children I had so much that I don't want to imagine a life without them. I recognize the pain they caused to others, for which there can be no forgiveness, but the pain they caused to me, there is,"" she said. ""So while I recognize that it would have been better for the world if Dylan had never been born, I've decided that it would not have been better for me."" I thought it was surprising how all of these families had all of these children with all of these problems, problems that they mostly would have done anything to avoid, and that they had all found so much meaning in that experience of parenting. And then I thought, all of us who have children love the children we have, with their flaws. If some glorious angel suddenly descended through my living room ceiling and offered to take away the children I have and give me other, better children — more polite, funnier, nicer, smarter — I would cling to the children I have and pray away that atrocious spectacle. And ultimately I feel that in the same way that we test flame-retardant pajamas in an inferno to ensure they won't catch fire when our child reaches across the stove, so these stories of families negotiating these extreme differences reflect on the universal experience of parenting, which is always that sometimes you look at your child and you think, where did you come from? (Laughter) It turns out that while each of these individual differences is siloed — there are only so many families dealing with schizophrenia, there are only so many families of children who are transgender, there are only so many families of prodigies — who also face similar challenges in many ways — there are only so many families in each of those categories — but if you start to think that the experience of negotiating difference within your family is what people are addressing, then you discover that it's a nearly universal phenomenon. Ironically, it turns out, that it's our differences, and our negotiation of difference, that unite us. I decided to have children while I was working on this project. And many people were astonished and said, ""But how can you decide to have children in the midst of studying everything that can go wrong?"" And I said, ""I'm not studying everything that can go wrong. What I'm studying is how much love there can be, even when everything appears to be going wrong."" I thought a lot about the mother of one disabled child I had seen, a severely disabled child who died through caregiver neglect. And when his ashes were interred, his mother said, ""I pray here for forgiveness for having been twice robbed, once of the child I wanted and once of the son I loved."" And I figured it was possible then for anyone to love any child if they had the effective will to do so. So my husband is the biological father of two children with some lesbian friends in Minneapolis. I had a close friend from college who'd gone through a divorce and wanted to have children. And so she and I have a daughter, and mother and daughter live in Texas. And my husband and I have a son who lives with us all the time of whom I am the biological father, and our surrogate for the pregnancy was Laura, the lesbian mother of Oliver and Lucy in Minneapolis. (Applause) So the shorthand is five parents of four children in three states. And there are people who think that the existence of my family somehow undermines or weakens or damages their family. And there are people who think that families like mine shouldn't be allowed to exist. And I don't accept subtractive models of love, only additive ones. And I believe that in the same way that we need species diversity to ensure that the planet can go on, so we need this diversity of affection and diversity of family in order to strengthen the ecosphere of kindness. The day after our son was born, the pediatrician came into the hospital room and said she was concerned. He wasn't extending his legs appropriately. She said that might mean that he had brain damage. In so far as he was extending them, he was doing so asymmetrically, which she thought could mean that there was a tumor of some kind in action. And he had a very large head, which she thought might indicate hydrocephalus. And as she told me all of these things, I felt the very center of my being pouring out onto the floor. And I thought, here I had been working for years on a book about how much meaning people had found in the experience of parenting children who are disabled, and I didn't want to join their number. Because what I was encountering was an idea of illness. And like all parents since the dawn of time, I wanted to protect my child from illness. And I wanted also to protect myself from illness. And yet, I knew from the work I had done that if he had any of the things we were about to start testing for, that those would ultimately be his identity, and if they were his identity they would become my identity, that that illness was going to take a very different shape as it unfolded. We took him to the MRI machine, we took him to the CAT scanner, we took this day-old child and gave him over for an arterial blood draw. We felt helpless. And at the end of five hours, they said that his brain was completely clear and that he was by then extending his legs correctly. And when I asked the pediatrician what had been going on, she said she thought in the morning he had probably had a cramp. (Laughter) But I thought how my mother was right. I thought, the love you have for your children is unlike any other feeling in the world, and until you have children, you don't know what it feels like. I think children had ensnared me the moment I connected fatherhood with loss. But I'm not sure I would have noticed that if I hadn't been so in the thick of this research project of mine. I'd encountered so much strange love, and I fell very naturally into its bewitching patterns. And I saw how splendor can illuminate even the most abject vulnerabilities. During these 10 years, I had witnessed and learned the terrifying joy of unbearable responsibility, and I had come to see how it conquers everything else. And while I had sometimes thought the parents I was interviewing were fools, enslaving themselves to a lifetime's journey with their thankless children and trying to breed identity out of misery, I realized that day that my research had built me a plank and that I was ready to join them on their ship. Thank you. (Applause)"	「即使完全不就宗教的觀點而言同性戀仍是性機能的誤用是一種可悲又渺小的二流現實替代品是一場逃離人生的可憐之旅因此，同性戀不值得同情不值得擁有受苦的少數族群該有的待遇同性戀應該被視為一種惡性疾病。」 那是引自 1966 年的時代雜誌，我當時三歲而去年，美國總統公開表態支持同性婚姻 （掌聲） 我的問題是，我們是怎麼走過來的？疾病是如何變成一種身分的？ 我大概六歲的時候跟媽媽和弟弟去鞋店買完鞋後店員告訴我們可以各拿一個氣球回家我弟弟想要紅色的，我想要粉紅色的媽媽說我想要的其實是藍色的氣球但是我堅決表示，我想要粉紅色的媽媽提醒我，藍色才是我的最愛現在我最愛的顏色確實是藍色，但我仍舊是同志（笑聲）證明了媽媽影響力之大，但也有其極限 （笑聲） （掌聲） 小時候媽媽常常告訴我「父母對子女的愛是世上獨一無二的感情等到你為人父母才能體會。 」媽媽會如此表達養育我和弟弟的心情小時候我認為那是至高無上的讚美等到了青春期，我就開始想我是同志，大概不能有家庭了那時媽媽舊話重提，讓我感到不安我出櫃以後媽媽還繼續說，我就發飆了我告訴她「我是同志，不打算走那條路請您以後別再提了。」 大約 20 年前，紐約時報雜誌的編輯向我邀稿讓我寫一篇聾人文化的文章我大吃一驚在那之前我一直認為耳聾完全是一種疾病那群可憐的人，他們聽不到他們失去了聽力，我們幫得上忙嗎？然後我走進聾人的世界我去了聾人俱樂部我去看聾人戲劇和聾人詩歌我甚至去了田納西州的納許維爾看聾人美國小姐大賽那裡有人抱怨含糊的南方手語 （笑聲） 當我越來越深入聾人的世界我開始確信聾是一種文化也相信聾人所說「我們沒有聽覺的缺憾，我們是聾文化的成員。」這種說法是站得住腳的聾不是我的文化我也不是特別想要跑去參與但是我體會得出聾是一種文化對於聾人而言聾文化的價值不亞於拉美裔文化、同志文化或猶太文化我覺得聾文化也許甚至和美國文化一樣正當 然後我朋友的朋友生了一個侏儒女兒她女兒出生時她突然面臨難題我現在頗能體會她當時的心境她面對的問題是怎麼教小孩她應該說：「妳和大家沒兩樣，只不過稍矮一點」嗎？還是她應該打造某種侏儒身分參與美國矮人協會去認識侏儒面臨的問題 我當時突然想到大多數聾人的父母是聽得見的有聽力的父母通常會想治好聾孩子但是這些聾人在青少年時期總是能找到自己的社群大多數同志的父母不是同性戀那些不是同志的父母通常會要求同志在父母認知的主流社會裡表現正常這些同志要等到以後才能發覺自己的身分而我的那位朋友她在思考侏儒女兒的身分問題我當時就想，又是同樣的問題一個自認為正常的家庭卻有了看似與眾不同的孩子於是我的想法誕生了：其實身分有兩種 一種是垂直身分從父母到子女世代相傳像是種族，經常包括國籍、語言，通常也有宗教這些都是你和你的父母及子女共同擁有的有些垂直身分或許難以認同但沒有人想要改正這些身分你可以主張美國有一種身分較為困難姑且不論現任總統也是這個身分就是有色人種然而沒人會想要確保非裔和亞裔美國人的下一代生出來的時候會是金髮白膚 另一種身分必須從同輩中得知我稱之為水平身分因為同輩之間的體驗是水平的水平身分是你父母所沒有的必須在同輩之間察覺到這種身分才能認同這些身分，這些水平身分人們幾乎總是想要治癒 我要觀察的是一種歷程有這些水平身分的人如何處之泰然的歷程在我看來，似乎需要三個層次的接受自我接受、家庭接受、社會接受三種接受不一定同時發生 不被接受的人常常會很生氣因為覺得父母好像不愛他們其實父母只是不贊同他們愛，理想上是沒有條件的在親子關係裡恆久存在但是接受需要時間總是需要時間 我認識一位叫做克林頓 • 布朗的侏儒他出生時被診斷為畸形性侏儒症一種極端殘障的病症他的父母被告知，他以後永遠不能走路，也不會說話還會有智能障礙甚至可能認不出父母醫生建議他們把孩子留在醫院讓他在那裡靜靜地死去 他的媽媽不願意這麼做她把兒子帶回家雖然媽媽教育程度不高也不富裕卻找到了全國最好的醫生主治畸形性侏儒症媽媽讓克林頓去看那位醫生克林頓的童年接受過 30 個重大的外科手術他為了動手術長時間待在醫院結果他現在可以走路 他在醫院的時候有老師輔導課業他很用功，因為沒別的事情可做他後來的成就家人以前怎麼也想不到事實上他是家裡面第一位上大學的他住校而且自己開車一輛為他特殊身體狀況而製的車子 他媽媽有一天告訴我他兒子回家的故事他的學校離家很近她說：「我看到那輛車，一眼就認出來是他的車子停在酒吧的停車場。」（笑聲）她說：「我心裡想，他們 180 公分，他才 90 公分他們的兩杯啤酒是他的四杯。」她說：「我知道不能進去阻止他但我回家後留了八封手機簡訊給他。」她說：「然後我心裡想如果他出生時有人告訴我將來我擔心的會是他和大學同伴酒後駕車...。」 （掌聲） 然後我問她：「妳認為自己做了什麼能幫助他成為迷人、有成就、又令人驚嘆的人？她回答：「我做了什麼？我愛他，沒別的。」克林頓的心中總是有著光芒而他父親和我，是有幸最先看到那道光芒的人。」 我要引述 1960 年代另一家雜誌這次是 1968 年的大西洋月刊 —美國的自由主義之聲作者是重要的生物倫理學家他表示：「對於放棄唐氏症兒童我們沒有理由內疚無論是私下送到療養院或是更負責的、一了百了的方式很可悲沒錯，也很可怕。但是不需要內疚真正的內疚，是冒犯他人而唐氏症患者不算是人。」 關於同志處境的大幅進步已經有很多文章有所著墨每天的頭條都有報導我們對同志的態度已改變但我們忘了過去是怎麼看待其他不同的人忘了過去是怎麼看待殘障的人忘了過去我們是多麼不人道在那些方面的改變幾乎同樣地激進我們卻不是很重視 我採訪過羅巴茲家庭的湯姆和凱倫夫婦他們當時是年輕且成功的紐約人得知長子是唐氏兒時大為驚訝他們認為兒子的教育機會不符期望於是決定要成立一個小型中心利用兩間教室，開始和其他父母一起教導唐氏兒多年來，該中心已擴大為庫克中心現在有成千上萬名智障兒童在此受教 自從大西洋月刊登出那篇文章以來唐氏症患者的平均壽命已成長了三倍有唐氏症的人包括演員作家以及成年後可以完全獨立生活的人 羅巴茲夫婦的貢獻不小我問他們：「你們有遺憾嗎？你們希望自己的孩子不是唐氏兒嗎？你們希望從未聽過唐氏症這回事嗎？有趣的是這位父親表示「這個嘛，為了兒子大衛著想，我有遺憾因為對大衛來說，這個世界的患者之路很難走我想讓大衛生活得更輕鬆但我想，如果世上不再有唐氏兒，會是極大的損失。」 凱倫 • 羅巴茲對我說：「我同意湯姆的看法為了讓大衛過得更輕鬆，我會想立刻治癒唐氏症但對我而言，23年前他出生時，我絕不會相信我能走到今天這一步對我而言，他的病讓我成為更好、更仁慈的人讓我的人生更有目的對我而言，這種經驗世上任何東西都換不來。」 現在社會對這些和其他病症的接受程度越來越高然而此時此刻我們滅絕這些病症的能力也已經達到了超乎想像的高峰美國現在新生的聾兒會接受人工電子耳植入大腦並連上接收器讓他們具有聽說的能力有一種名為 BMN-111 的化合物，已做過小鼠試驗能夠抑制「軟骨發育不全」基因軟骨發育不全是侏儒症最常見的形式有「軟骨發育不全」基因的小鼠攝取了 BMN-11 後可以生長到正常體型人體試驗指日可待唐氏症的驗血的技術也在進步可以在懷孕時，更早且更明確地鑑別唐氏症從而越來越容易避免唐氏症胎兒的出生 因此我們的社會進步了，醫學也進步了我認同這兩方面的進步我認為社會的進步太棒了、有意義、令人讚歎我認為醫學的進步同樣是好事但我認為二者不能配合卻是個悲劇我觀察他們交會的方式以我剛才描述的三個病症為例有時侯我會覺得這像大歌劇裡面男主角發現自己愛上了女主角的時刻就是女主角躺在長沙發上要斷氣的那一刻 （笑聲） 我們必須全盤考量對於治癒的態度常常父母面對的問題是孩子的哪些方面該肯定哪些方面又需要治療？ 知名的自閉症行動主義者吉姆 • 辛克萊表示「父母說『我希望我的孩子沒有自閉症』他們真正的意思是『我希望這個孩子不存在』換成另一個沒有自閉症的孩子聽清楚。你們哀嘆我們的存在之時我們聽到的這就是這個意思你們祈禱解藥出現的時候，我們聽到的是 ─你們衷心希望有一天我們不復存在和我們有著相同面孔的陌生人將取代我們，得到你們所有的愛。」這個觀點非常極端但指出了一個現實：人們要過自己的生活不希望被治癒、改變或滅絕他們希望保有與生俱來的天性 我為這個專案採訪了迪倫 • 柯萊柏德的家庭迪倫是科倫拜校園慘案的兇手之一我花了很長時間說服他的家人跟我談話一旦他們同意談話，因為有太多故事一開口就欲罷不能我第一次和他們共度週末 — 後來還有許多次我錄了 20 幾個小時的談話 到了週日晚上，我們都已疲憊不堪我們坐在廚房裡，蘇柯 • 萊柏德在做晚餐我說：「如果迪倫還在你們想要問他什麼嗎？」迪倫的父親說：「當然我要問他搞什麼鬼，怎麼會做出那種事。」蘇看著地板，沉思了一會兒然後抬頭說「我想請他原諒我沒做好母親的角色從來不知道他腦子裡想的是什麼。」 兩年之後我再度和她共度晚餐我們許多共同的晚餐之一她說：「你知道嗎，事情發生的時候我希望自己沒結過婚，沒生過孩子我想如果沒去俄亥俄州立大學，沒遇見湯姆就不會有這個孩子，慘案也不會發生了但是後來我覺得自己太愛孩子們了不願意想像沒有他們的生活我明白他們對別人造成的痛苦，那是無法寬恕的但我能寬恕他們帶給我的痛苦。」她說「所以雖然我明白，如果迪倫從未出生世界會更好但是我認定那樣對我並非更好。」 我認為令人驚訝的是這些家庭有這麼多子女的問題這些問題又是他們常常不惜代價去避免的但他們都發現養育兒女的經驗很有意義然後我想，我們這些有孩子的人愛我們有缺陷的孩子如果光輝的天使突然從客廳的天花板降臨提議帶走我的孩子換一個更好的孩子 ─ 更有禮、風趣、友善、聰明我會緊握住自己的孩子不放祈禱殘忍的場面不會發生我終究覺得就像我們在大火中測試防火睡衣以確保孩子手伸到爐子上時不會著火這些家庭超越極端差異的故事反映了普世的育兒經驗有時候你看著孩子，心裡想你是從哪裡蹦出來的？ （笑聲） 事實證明，儘管個別的每一種差異都被掩藏起來畢竟面對精神分裂症的家庭只有這麼多孩子變性的家庭只有這麼多神童的家庭只有這麼多神童家庭也有多方面類似的挑戰這些家庭的數目，每一種都不是很多但如果換個想法你的家人超越差異的經驗是大家都在解決的問題那你就會發現這幾乎是普世現象諷刺的是，事實證明我們的差異以及我們超越了差異使我們團結起來 我是在做這個專案的時候才決定要有孩子很多人驚訝地問我「你怎麼會現在決定要孩子你不是正在研究所有可能出錯之處嗎？」我說：「我不是在研究所有可能出錯之處我研究的是儘管一切看似出了錯愛還能夠有多少。」 我常常想到一位母親，我見過她殘障的兒子那個嚴重殘障的孩子因為看護的疏失而死他的骨灰入土時，他的母親說「我在這裡祈求寬恕，為了我的孩子兩次被奪走一次失去的是我想要的孩子，一次是我愛的兒子。」於是我想通了，任何人都有可能愛任何孩子只要他們有實際的意願 我丈夫是兩個孩子的生父他們的母親是在明尼阿波里斯市的女同志友人我有個大學密友離了婚，想要孩子於是她和我有了一個女兒母女住在德州我丈夫和我有個一直住在一起的兒子我是他的生父我們的代孕母是蘿拉她是在明尼阿波里斯市的女同志奧利弗和露西的母親 （掌聲） 簡言之，我們在三個州有五個父母和四個孩子 有人認為我家庭的存在多少減弱或破壞了他們的家庭還有人認為像我這樣的家庭不應該容許存在我不接受減法的愛，只接受加法的愛而且我相信，就像我們需要物種多樣性以確保地球能延續下去我們同樣需要多樣的親情和多樣的家庭以加強「仁慈生態圈」 我們兒子出生的次日小兒科醫生走進病房表示擔心孩子伸腿不太正常她說這可能顯示大腦受損他有伸過腿，但伸得不對稱她認為這可能顯示孩子有腫瘤干擾孩子的頭非常大，她認為這可能顯示腦水腫 她告訴我這一切的時候我覺得六神無主我當時想，這本書寫了好幾年了探討養育殘障孩子的經驗父母從中發現了多少人生的意義我當時卻不想成為他們的一員因為我面對的是一種疾病的觀念就像自古以來所有的父母我想讓我的孩子遠離疾病我自己也不想得病然而我從工作得知如果測試結果他有我們擔心的情況那些終歸是他的身分如果那些是他的身分，也將成為我的身分我也知道疾病將會發展出非常不同的狀態 我們帶他去做核磁共振，去做斷層掃描我們讓這個一天大的孩子接受動脈抽血我們感到無助五個小時之後院方表示他的大腦完全沒問題並且那個時候他已經能夠正常伸腿我問小兒科醫生這到底是怎麼回事她說孩子早上可能是抽筋吧 （笑聲） 但我想我母親真對我心裡想，對孩子的愛是世上獨一無二的感情等到你為人父母才知道是什麼滋味 我想到作為父親的失落之時孩子就成了我的陷阱但要不是我一直在鑽研這個專案我不確定會有如此領悟我接觸了這麼多奇怪的愛很自然地落入它迷人的模式我看到光彩是如何照亮了甚至最難堪的弱點 十年來我目睹和學到難忍的責任帶來了令人震懾的喜悅我看到了這些喜悅征服了一切雖然有時侯我認為受訪的父母是傻子他們一輩子受忘恩的孩子束縛還想要從不幸中孕育出身分認同那天我明白了我的研究替我建立了踏板我已準備好上船和那些父母同舟共濟 謝謝 （掌聲）
