Talk	en	zh-tw
andreas_schleicher_use_data_to_build_better_schools	Radical openness is still a distant future in the field of school education. We have such a hard time figuring out that learning is not a place but an activity. But I want to tell you the story of PISA, OECD's test to measure the knowledge and skills of 15-year-olds around the world, and it's really a story of how international comparisons have globalized the field of education that we usually treat as an affair of domestic policy. Look at how the world looked in the 1960s, in terms of the proportion of people who had completed high school. You can see the United States ahead of everyone else, and much of the economic success of the United States draws on its long-standing advantage as the first mover in education. But in the 1970s, some countries caught up. In the 1980s, the global expansion of the talent pool continued. And the world didn't stop in the 1990s. So in the '60s, the U.S. was first. In the '90s, it was 13th, and not because standards had fallen, but because they had risen so much faster elsewhere. Korea shows you what's possible in education. Two generations ago, Korea had the standard of living of Afghanistan today, and was one of the lowest education performers. Today, every young Korean finishes high school. So this tells us that, in a global economy, it is no longer national improvement that's the benchmark for success, but the best performing education systems internationally. The trouble is that measuring how much time people spend in school or what degree they have got is not always a good way of seeing what they can actually do. Look at the toxic mix of unemployed graduates on our streets, while employers say they cannot find the people with the skills they need. And that tells you that better degrees don't automatically translate into better skills and better jobs and better lives. So with PISA, we try to change this by measuring the knowledge and skills of people directly. And we took a very special angle to this. We were less interested in whether students can simply reproduce what they have learned in school, but we wanted to test whether they can extrapolate from what they know and apply their knowledge in novel situations. Now, some people have criticized us for this. They say, you know, such a way of measuring outcomes is terribly unfair to people, because we test students with problems they haven't seen before. But if you take that logic, you know, you should consider life unfair, because the test of truth in life is not whether we can remember what we learned in school, but whether we are prepared for change, whether we are prepared for jobs that haven't been created, to use technologies that haven't been invented, to solve problems we just can't anticipate today. And once hotly contested, our way of measuring outcomes has actually quickly become the standard. In our latest assessment in 2009, we measured 74 school systems that together cover 87 percent of the economy. This chart shows you the performance of countries. In red, sort of below OECD average. Yellow is so-so, and in green are the countries doing really well. You can see Shanghai, Korea, Singapore in Asia; Finland in Europe; Canada in North America doing really well. You can also see that there is a gap of almost three and a half school years between 15-year-olds in Shanghai and 15-year-olds in Chile, and the gap grows to seven school years when you include the countries with really poor performance. There's a world of difference in the way in which young people are prepared for today's economy. But I want to introduce a second important dimension into this picture. Educators like to talk about equity. With PISA, we wanted to measure how they actually deliver equity, in terms of ensuring that people from different social backgrounds have equal chances. And we see that in some countries, the impact of social background on learning outcomes is very, very strong. Opportunities are unequally distributed. A lot of potential of young children is wasted. We see in other countries that it matters much less into which social context you're born. We all want to be there, in the upper right quadrant, where performance is strong and learning opportunities are equally distributed. Nobody, and no country, can afford to be there, where performance is poor and there are large social disparities. And then we can debate, you know, is it better to be there, where performance is strong at the price of large disparities? Or do we want to focus on equity and accept mediocrity? But actually, if you look at how countries come out on this picture, you see there are a lot of countries that actually are combining excellence with equity. In fact, one of the most important lessons from this comparison is that you don't have to compromise equity to achieve excellence. These countries have moved on from providing excellence for just some to providing excellence for all, a very important lesson. And that also challenges the paradigms of many school systems that believe they are mainly there to sort people. And ever since those results came out, policymakers, educators, researchers from around the world have tried to figure out what's behind the success of those systems. But let's step back for a moment and focus on the countries that actually started PISA, and I'm giving them a colored bubble now. And I'm making the size of the bubble proportional to the amount of money that countries spent on students. If money would tell you everything about the quality of learning outcomes, you would find all the large bubbles at the top, no? But that's not what you see. Spending per student only explains about, well, less than 20 percent of the performance variation among countries, and Luxembourg, for example, the most expensive system, doesn't do particularly well. What you see is that two countries with similar spending achieve very different results. You also see — and I think that's one of the most encouraging findings — that we no longer live in a world that is neatly divided between rich and well-educated countries, and poor and badly-educated ones, a very, very important lesson. Let's look at this in greater detail. The red dot shows you spending per student relative to a country's wealth. One way you can spend money is by paying teachers well, and you can see Korea investing a lot in attracting the best people into the teaching profession. And Korea also invests into long school days, which drives up costs further. Last but not least, Koreans want their teachers not only to teach but also to develop. They invest in professional development and collaboration and many other things. All that costs money. How can Korea afford all of this? The answer is, students in Korea learn in large classes. This is the blue bar which is driving costs down. You go to the next country on the list, Luxembourg, and you can see the red dot is exactly where it is for Korea, so Luxembourg spends the same per student as Korea does. But, you know, parents and teachers and policymakers in Luxembourg all like small classes. You know, it's very pleasant to walk into a small class. So they have invested all their money into there, and the blue bar, class size, is driving costs up. But even Luxembourg can spend its money only once, and the price for this is that teachers are not paid particularly well. Students don't have long hours of learning. And basically, teachers have little time to do anything else than teaching. So you can see two countries spent their money very differently, and actually how they spent their money matters a lot more than how much they invest in education. Let's go back to the year 2000. Remember, that was the year before the iPod was invented. This is how the world looked then in terms of PISA performance. The first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller, no? We spent a lot less on education, about 35 percent less on education. So you ask yourself, if education has become so much more expensive, has it become so much better? And the bitter truth really is that, you know, not in many countries. But there are some countries which have seen impressive improvements. Germany, my own country, in the year 2000, featured in the lower quadrant, below average performance, large social disparities. And remember, Germany, we used to be one of those countries that comes out very well when you just count people who have degrees. Very disappointing results. People were stunned by the results. And for the very first time, the public debate in Germany was dominated for months by education, not tax, not other kinds of issues, but education was the center of the public debate. And then policymakers began to respond to this. The federal government dramatically raised its investment in education. A lot was done to increase the life chances of students with an immigrant background or from social disadvantage. And what's really interesting is that this wasn't just about optimizing existing policies, but data transformed some of the beliefs and paradigms underlying German education. For example, traditionally, the education of the very young children was seen as the business of families, and you would have cases where women were seen as neglecting their family responsibilities when they sent their children to kindergarten. PISA has transformed that debate, and pushed early childhood education right at the center of public policy in Germany. Or traditionally, the German education divides children at the age of 10, very young children, between those deemed to pursue careers of knowledge workers and those who would end up working for the knowledge workers, and that mainly along socioeconomic lines, and that paradigm is being challenged now too. A lot of change. And the good news is, nine years later, you can see improvements in quality and equity. People have taken up the challenge, done something about it. Or take Korea, at the other end of the spectrum. In the year 2000, Korea did already very well, but the Koreans were concerned that only a small share of their students achieved the really high levels of excellence. They took up the challenge, and Korea was able to double the proportion of students achieving excellence in one decade in the field of reading. Well, if you only focus on your brightest students, you know what happens is disparities grow, and you can see this bubble moving slightly to the other direction, but still, an impressive improvement. A major overhaul of Poland's education helped to dramatically reduce between variability among schools, turn around many of the lowest-performing schools, and raise performance by over half a school year. And you can see other countries as well. Portugal was able to consolidate its fragmented school system, raise quality and improve equity, and so did Hungary. So what you can actually see, there's been a lot of change. And even those people who complain and say that the relative standing of countries on something like PISA is just an artifact of culture, of economic factors, of social issues, of homogeneity of societies, and so on, these people must now concede that education improvement is possible. You know, Poland hasn't changed its culture. It didn't change its economy. It didn't change the compositions of its population. It didn't fire its teachers. It changed its education policies and practice. Very impressive. And all that raises, of course, the question: What can we learn from those countries in the green quadrant who have achieved high levels of equity, high levels of performance, and raised outcomes? And, of course, the question is, can what works in one context provide a model elsewhere? Of course, you can't copy and paste education systems wholesale, but these comparisons have identified a range of factors that high-performing systems share. Everybody agrees that education is important. Everybody says that. But the test of truth is, how do you weigh that priority against other priorities? How do countries pay their teachers relative to other highly skilled workers? Would you want your child to become a teacher rather than a lawyer? How do the media talk about schools and teachers? Those are the critical questions, and what we have learned from PISA is that, in high-performing education systems, the leaders have convinced their citizens to make choices that value education, their future, more than consumption today. And you know what's interesting? You won't believe it, but there are countries in which the most attractive place to be is not the shopping center but the school. Those things really exist. But placing a high value on education is just part of the picture. The other part is the belief that all children are capable of success. You have some countries where students are segregated early in their ages. You know, students are divided up, reflecting the belief that only some children can achieve world-class standards. But usually that is linked to very strong social disparities. If you go to Japan in Asia, or Finland in Europe, parents and teachers in those countries expect every student to succeed, and you can see that actually mirrored in student behavior. When we asked students what counts for success in mathematics, students in North America would typically tell us, you know, it's all about talent. If I'm not born as a genius in math, I'd better study something else. Nine out of 10 Japanese students say that it depends on my own investment, on my own effort, and that tells you a lot about the system that is around them. In the past, different students were taught in similar ways. High performers on PISA embrace diversity with differentiated pedagogical practices. They realize that ordinary students have extraordinary talents, and they personalize learning opportunities. High-performing systems also share clear and ambitious standards across the entire spectrum. Every student knows what matters. Every student knows what's required to be successful. And nowhere does the quality of an education system exceed the quality of its teachers. High-performing systems are very careful in how they recruit and select their teachers and how they train them. They watch how they improve the performances of teachers in difficulties who are struggling, and how they structure teacher pay. They provide an environment also in which teachers work together to frame good practice. And they provide intelligent pathways for teachers to grow in their careers. In bureaucratic school systems, teachers are often left alone in classrooms with a lot of prescription on what they should be teaching. High-performing systems are very clear what good performance is. They set very ambitious standards, but then they enable their teachers to figure out, what do I need to teach to my students today? The past was about delivered wisdom in education. Now the challenge is to enable user-generated wisdom. High performers have moved on from professional or from administrative forms of accountability and control — sort of, how do you check whether people do what they're supposed to do in education — to professional forms of work organization. They enable their teachers to make innovations in pedagogy. They provide them with the kind of development they need to develop stronger pedagogical practices. The goal of the past was standardization and compliance. High-performing systems have made teachers and school principals inventive. In the past, the policy focus was on outcomes, on provision. The high-performing systems have helped teachers and school principals to look outwards to the next teacher, the next school around their lives. And the most impressive outcomes of world-class systems is that they achieve high performance across the entire system. You've seen Finland doing so well on PISA, but what makes Finland so impressive is that only five percent of the performance variation amongst students lies between schools. Every school succeeds. This is where success is systemic. And how do they do that? They invest resources where they can make the most difference. They attract the strongest principals into the toughest schools, and the most talented teachers into the most challenging classroom. Last but not least, those countries align policies across all areas of public policy. They make them coherent over sustained periods of time, and they ensure that what they do is consistently implemented. Now, knowing what successful systems are doing doesn't yet tell us how to improve. That's also clear, and that's where some of the limits of international comparisons of PISA are. That's where other forms of research need to kick in, and that's also why PISA doesn't venture into telling countries what they should be doing. But its strength lies in telling them what everybody else has been doing. And the example of PISA shows that data can be more powerful than administrative control of financial subsidy through which we usually run education systems. You know, some people argue that changing educational administration is like moving graveyards. You just can't rely on the people out there to help you with this. (Laughter) But PISA has shown what's possible in education. It has helped countries to see that improvement is possible. It has taken away excuses from those who are complacent. And it has helped countries to set meaningful targets in terms of measurable goals achieved by the world's leaders. If we can help every child, every teacher, every school, every principal, every parent see what improvement is possible, that only the sky is the limit to education improvement, we have laid the foundations for better policies and better lives. Thank you. (Applause)	「激進式開放」仍然是遙遠的未來在學校教育的領域裡我們花了很多精力才瞭解到學習不是一個場所而是一種活動 我想告訴你有關國際學生能力評量計劃 (PISA) 的故事它是經濟合作發展組織 (OECD) 的一項測驗衡量全球 15 歲學生的知識及技能而它確實說明了這種國際層次的比較得以讓我們平日當做國家內政的教育領域進一步全球化 讓我們來看看 1960 年代世界各國的人口完成高中教育的比例你可以看到美國傲視群雄而許多美國的經濟成就歸功於這種長久以來作為教育先驅者的優勢但在 1970 年代，一些國家急起直追到了 1980 年代全球的人才數量持續成長1990 年代也毫不減勢所以美國在 60 年代是第 1 名到了 90 年代變成第 13 名這並不是因為美國的水準下降了而是因為其他國家迅速地追上 韓國讓我們看見教育的可能性在兩個世代以前，韓國的生活水準相當於今天的阿富汗在教育方面的排名倒數現在每一個韓國青少年都能完成高中教育 這告訴我們在全球經濟中國家的進步不再是成功的指標擁有國際上最好的教育體系才是問題是衡量學生在校的時間或他們獲得的學位並非總是判斷他們實力的好方法看看街上那麼多找不到工作的畢業生而雇主們卻在抱怨找不到擁有合適技能的人才這就說明了更高的學歷無法自動轉化為更好的技能、更好的工作以及更好的生活 有了 PISA，我們試著去改變這樣的情況讓學生的知識和技能以直接的方式來衡量我們採用一個非常特別的觀點我們比較不在意學生是否能複製在校所學我們比較想評比的是他們能否從所學中舉一反三以及在新環境中運用他們的知識有些人批評這樣的方法他們說這種衡量結果的方式對學生極為不公平因為我們的測驗是他們從未見過的問題但是如果你認同那樣的邏輯你應該認為生活就是不公平的因為生活中對真理的測驗並不在於我們是否記得在學校學過什麼而是在於我們是否為改變做好了準備我們是否準備好去面對各種新工作去運用尚未發明的科技去解決今天無法預期的問題 經過激烈的爭論後我們衡量結果的方法很快就成為了標準在 2009 年最新的評量中我們衡量了 74 個學校體系共涵蓋了 87% 的經濟體這張圖顯示了各國的得分紅色是低於 OECD 平均值的黃色是中等，而綠色是表現優秀的國家你們可以發現亞洲的上海、韓國、新加坡歐洲的芬蘭以及北美洲的加拿大都有很好的表現你們也可以看到在上海和智利的 15 歲少年之間有幾乎 3.5 個學年的差距而差距會擴大為 7 個學年如果包含了那些表現很差的國家世界各國為年輕人面對今日經濟發展所做的準備不同 但我想要把第二個重要的特點加入這個現象中教育界人士喜歡討論公平我們想用 PISA 來衡量他們究竟如何實現公平如何確保所有的學生來自不同的社會背景都擁有平等的機會我們看到在一些國家社會背景對學習成果的影響非常巨大機會的分配是不平等的許多有潛力的孩子們被忽略了我們看到在其他國家成長背景的影響小了許多我們都希望自己屬於右上角的那個象限學生表現優秀而且學習機會均等沒有人也沒有任何一個國家想要在那裡（左下角象限）不僅學生表現差而且社會差距過大然後要討論的是（剩下的兩個象限）哪個比較好是要屬於成績好但社會差距大的象限？還是要注重平等但接受平庸？但實際上如果你去檢視圖上的各個國家可以發現有很多國家能夠兼顧優秀和公平事實上，這個比較結果讓我們上了重要的一課那就是無需犧牲公平來達到優秀這些國家從少數人優秀進步到所有人優秀這是一個非常重要的發現這也挑戰了很多學校體系的範例他們認為學校的存在主要是為了把學生分類這些測驗結果發佈後世界各國的政治決策者教育工作者和研究人員都想試著去找出那些體系的成功有什麼訣竅 讓我們退一步來看並聚焦於那些發展 PISA 的國家我用彩色的泡泡來代表他們並讓泡泡的大小按比例反映出這些國家花費在學生身上的金錢多寡如果金錢能夠說明學習成果的品質你就該看到所有的大泡泡都在上面，不是嗎？但事實並非如此對每位學生的花費只解釋了不到 20%國家之間表現差異的原因譬如，盧森堡是最昂貴的體系但並非表現最好你會發現花費相近的兩個國家結果卻非常不同你也會看到──而我認為這是一個非常鼓舞人心的發現──我們的世界已不再是涇渭分明不再分成富裕且教育良好的國家以及貧窮且教育糟糕的國家這是非常非常重要的一課 讓我們更詳細地來看紅點表示對每位學生的花費占一個國家財富的比例投入金錢的方式之一是提高教師收入你可以看到韓國大量地投入來吸引最優秀的人才成為專業教師韓國也投入長時間的上課天數進一步提高了成本還有，韓國希望老師們除了傳授知識，還要去培養及開發他們投入專業的發展與合作專案以及其他許多項目這些都要花錢韓國如何負擔這些？答案是大班教育就是這條藍色的圓柱使得成本下降再來看看旁邊的盧森堡這個紅點與韓國在一模一樣的位置這表示盧森堡在每位學生身上的花費與韓國相當但盧森堡的家長、教師和政策制定者都喜歡小班教學因為走進一個小班級的感覺很舒服所以他們把錢都投入在那裡藍色的這一條，也就是班級大小使得成本上升但即使是盧森堡也無法將金錢重複使用而代價就是教師的收入沒有特別好學生的上學時間不長基本上，老師除了教書之外並沒有時間去做其他事情所以你可以看到兩個國家花錢的方式非常不一樣而實際上他們如何用錢比用了多少錢對教育有更多的影響 讓我們回到 2000 年記住，這一年 iPod 還沒有出現這是當時世界各國的樣子以 PISA 測驗結果來看首先，你會注意到所有的泡泡都小了許多，對吧？那時我們在教育上的花費少了許多大約少了35%我們自問：如果已經在教育上投入了這麼多的錢它是不是也跟著改善了許多？但讓人難堪的事實是沒有多少個國家真的如此不過有一些國家已經有了不起的進步我的母國德國，在 2000 年屬於底下的那個象限成績低於平均，社會差距大要知道，德國曾經是一個在擁有學位的國民數量上名列前茅的國家測驗結果讓人非常失望人們感到震驚史無前例地，德國的公眾辯論圍繞教育話題進行了數月不是稅收，不是其他問題，而是教育成為了公眾議題的焦點後來政策制定者開始做出應對聯邦政府大幅增加教育投資努力提供更多機會給來自移民家庭或社會弱勢群體的學生有趣的是，這不僅是使現有的體制更完善同時也轉變了一些信念及範例那原本是德國教育的基礎譬如，幼兒教育在傳統上被認為是家庭的職責而且你能看到在許多例子中當婦女把孩子送到幼稚園會被視為忽視家庭職責PISA 轉變了這個爭論並且促使幼兒早期教育成為德國公眾政策的核心還有，傳統上德國的教育把 10 歲的小孩，很小的年紀區分為將來會成為知識工作者的人以及將來為知識工作者工作的人這樣的區分主要是依循社會經濟的路線而這種典範現在也遇到了挑戰發生了許多改變 好消息是，九年之後你們可以看到品質和公平都有所改善人們接受了挑戰並採取行動 再來看看屬於最高象限的韓國在 2000 年，韓國已經有很好的表現但韓國人擔心，只有小部分的學生達到非常優異的成績他們接受了挑戰並在十年內讓閱讀表現優秀的學生比例增加了一倍如果你只集中於培養最聰明的學生你知道這會造成社會差距擴大你會看到泡泡稍微朝另一個方向移動不過這仍是很好的改進 一項對波蘭教育的重大檢討協助大幅降低了學校之間的差異徹底改變了許多表現差的學校成績提高超過半個學年其他國家也是葡萄牙得以整合七零八落的學校體制提升品質並增進公平匈牙利也是如此 所以確實可以看到很多的改變甚至那些抱怨說國家之間的排名高低譬如 PISA 測驗結果不過是一種人工產物，來自於文化經濟因素、社會問題社會均一性等因素這些人現在必須承認教育改革是可能的大家知道，波蘭並沒有改變它的文化也沒有改變它的經濟也沒有改變它的人口結構他們沒有開除教師而是改變了教育政策和教育實務，非常了不起 所有這些產生了一個問題：我們能從綠色象限的國家中學到什麼？這些國家創造了高水準的平等優秀的表現，並且提升了成果當然，問題在於：在某個國家的成功經驗能否複製於另一個國家？當然的，你不能複製整個教育體系但這些比較結果辨識出了一些要素是表現優異的體系共同擁有的每個人都認同教育是重要的每個人都這麼說但事實上這個評量顯示出：如何去衡量教育和其他事務的先後順序？國家付給老師的薪水如何和其他高技術勞工比較？父母希望孩子當老師還是做律師？媒體上是怎麼談論學校和教師的？這些都是至關重要的問題而我們從 PISA 學到在高績效的教育體系中領導者讓市民相信並選擇要重視教育、重視未來更甚於今天的消費有趣的是，你可能不會相信有些國家最吸引人的地方並不是購物中心，而是學校這樣的事情真的存在 但只重視教育還不夠另外還要相信所有的孩子都能成功有些國家的學生從小就被分班了學生被區隔反映出人們相信只有某些孩子能達到世界級的水準而這通常和很嚴重的社會不平等有關如果你去亞洲的日本，或歐洲的芬蘭這些國家的父母和教師希望每個孩子都能成材你會發現這種信念真的會投射在學生的行為上當我們問學生們要怎麼學好數學北美的學生通常回答這跟天賦有關如果我生下來就不是數學天才那麼我最好去學別的科目而日本學生 10 個裡面有 9 個會回答要靠我自己的投入，我自己的努力這說明了很多有關他們所處的體系 在過去，不同的學生接受相似的教學方法PISA 得分高的國家接受多樣性採用差異化的教學方法他們知道平凡的學生有非凡的才能他們讓學習機會因人而異 高績效系統也都擁有明確且雄心勃勃的全方位標準每一個學生都知道什麼才是最重要的每一個學生都知道成功需要什麼 而教育系統的品質取決於系統中教師的品質高績效系統非常注重教師的招聘和挑選以及培訓教師的方法他們注重如何去改善那些有困難的老師的績效以及如何規劃教師的薪水他們也提供一個環境讓教師共同合作開發優良的教學方式他們為教師提供深造的途徑讓他們能在職業上發展在官僚作風的學校體系中教師總是獨自一人在教室裡照本宣科而高績效系統非常清楚好的績效是什麼他們訂立了野心勃勃的標準但同時也讓教師自由發揮──今天我要教些什麼給學生？過去的教育是在傳承智慧現在的挑戰是要讓需要的人產生智慧高績效系統已經不是責任和控制的專業或管理模式──也就是，如何去檢查學生是否有做功課──它們已轉變成工作組織的專業模式他們鼓勵教師在教學方式上推陳出新為教師提供所需的進修來發展更優秀的教學方法過去的目標是標準化和循規蹈矩高績效系統讓教師們和校長們勇於創新在過去，政策著重於結果和規章制度高績效系統幫助教師和校長放眼教師的未來和學校的未來 世界級水準系統最了不起的成果在於它能達成體系內全方面的優良表現芬蘭的 PISA 結果非常好原因在於學校之間只有 5% 的得分差異每一間學校都成功了這種成功是系統性的他們如何做到的？他們把資源投入到最能產生效益的地方他們吸引最優秀的校長去最棘手的學校吸引最優秀的教師去最有挑戰的班級 除此之外，這些國家綜合考量所有的公共政策他們讓政策長久地維持協調一致還要確保執行上的一致性 知道成功的體系如何成功還不能告訴我們如何去改善（自己的體系）這很明顯，而這些限制存在於 PISA 的國際比較裡這裡需要其他形式的研究介入這也是為什麼 PISA 沒有冒昧去告訴各個國家應該怎麼做但 PISA 的優點在於告訴大家別人都在做什麼PISA 的例子說明了資料比財務補貼的行政控制還要有效後者是我們平常管理教育系統的方式 有些人提出教育管理的改革就像遷墳你無法依賴墳墓裡的人來幫你（笑聲）但是 PISA 指出了教育的可能性它幫助國家瞭解了進步是可能的那些故步自封的人不能再找藉口了它協助國家訂立有意義的目標依據領先國家已達到的可衡量目標如果我們能夠幫助每一個孩子每一位教師、每一所學校每一位校長、每一位父母都瞭解進步的可能性那麼教育改革的前景就無可限量我們已建立了基礎為更好的政策和更好的生活 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
