Talk	en	zh-tw
angelica_dass_the_beauty_of_human_skin_in_every_color	"It has been 128 years since the last country in the world abolished slavery and 53 years since Martin Luther King pronounced his ""I Have A Dream"" speech. But we still live in a world where the color of our skin not only gives a first impression, but a lasting one that remains. I was born in a family full of colors. My father is the son of a maid from whom he inherited an intense dark chocolate tone. He was adopted by those who I know as my grandparents. The matriarch, my grandma, has a porcelain skin and cotton-like hair. My grandpa was somewhere between a vanilla and strawberry yogurt tone, like my uncle and my cousin. My mother is a cinnamon-skin daughter of a native Brazilian, with a pinch of hazel and honey, and a man [who is] a mix of coffee with milk, but with a lot of coffee. She has two sisters. One in a toasted-peanut skin and the other, also adopted, more on the beige side, like a pancake. (Laughter) Growing up in this family, color was never important for me. Outside home, however, things were different soon. Color had many other meanings. I remember my first drawing lessons in school as a bunch of contradictory feelings. It was exciting and creative but I never understood the unique flesh-colored pencil. I was made of flesh but I wasn't pink. My skin was brown, and people said I was black. I was seven years old with a mess of colors in my head. Later, when I took my cousin to school, I was usually taken for the nanny. By helping in the kitchen at a friend's party, people thought I was the maid. I was even treated like a prostitute just because I was walking alone on the beach with European friends. And many times, visiting my grandma or friends in upper class buildings, I was invited not to use the main elevator. Because in the end, with this color and this hair, I cannot belong to some places. In some way, I get to used to it and accept part of it. However, something inside of me keeps revolving and struggling. Years later I married a Spaniard. But not any Spaniard. I chose one with the skin color of a lobster when sunburnt. (Laughter) Since then, a new question started to chase me. What will be the color of your children? As you can understand, this is my last concern. But thinking about it, with my previous background, my story led me to make my personal exercise as a photographer. And that is how Humanae was born. Humanae is a pursuit to highlight our true colors, rather than the untrue white, red, black or yellow associated with race. It's a kind of game to question our codes. It's a work in progress from a personal story to a global history. I portray the subjects in a white background. Then I choose an 11-pixel square from the nose, paint the background, and look for the corresponding color in the industrial palette, Pantone. I started with my family and friends, then more and more people joined the adventure, thanks to public calls coming through the social media. I thought that the main space to show my work was the Internet because I want an open concept that invites everybody to push the share button in both the computer and their brain. The snowball started to roll. The project had a great welcome — invitations, exhibitions, physical formats, galleries and museums ... just happened. And among them, my favorite: when Humanae occupies public spaces and appears in the street, it fosters a popular debate and creates a feeling of community. I have portrayed more than 3,000 people in 13 different countries, 19 different cities around the world. Just to mention some of them — from someone included in the Forbes list, to refugees who crossed the Mediterranean by boat. In Paris, from the UNESCO Headquarters to a shelter. And students both in Switzerland and favelas in Rio de Janeiro. All kinds of beliefs, gender identities or physical impairments, a newborn or terminally ill. We all together build Humanae. Those portraits make us rethink how we see each other. When modern science is questioning the race concept, what does it mean for us to be black, white, yellow, red? Is it the eye, the nose, the mouth, the hair? Or does it have to do with our origin, nationality or bank account? This personal exercise turned out to be a discovery. Suddenly I realized that Humanae was useful for many people. It represents a sort of mirror for those who cannot find themselves reflected in any label. It was amazing that people started to share their thoughts about the work with me. I have hundreds of that, I will share with you, too. A mother of 11 years — A mother of an 11-year-old girl wrote me, ""Very good for me as a tool to work on her confidence, as this past weekend one of her girlfriends argued with her that she does not belong and should not be allowed to live in Norway. So your work has a very special place in my heart and it's very important for me."" A woman shared her portrait on Facebook and wrote, ""All my life, people from across the globe had difficulties to place me in a group, a stereotype, a box. Perhaps we should stop. Instead of framing, ask the individual, 'How would you label yourself?' Then I would say, 'Hi. I'm Massiel. I'm a Dominican-Dutch, I grew up in a mixed family and I'm a bisexual woman.' "" Besides these unexpected and touching reactions, Humanae finds a new life in a different variety of fields. Just to show you some examples, illustrators and art students using it as a reference for their sketches and their studies. It's a collection of faces. Researchers in the fields of anthropology, physics and neuroscience use Humanae with different scientific approaches related to human ethnicity, optophysiology, face recognition or Alzheimer's. One of the most important impacts of the project is that Humanae was chosen to be the cover of Foreign Affairs, one of the most relevant political publications. And talking about foreign affairs, I found the perfect ambassadors for my project ... teachers. They are the ones that use Humanae as a tool for educational purposes. Their passion encourages me to go back to drawing classes, but this time as a teacher myself. My students, both adults and kids, paint their self-portraits, trying to discover their own unique color. As a photographer, I realize that I can be a channel for others to communicate. As an individual, as Angélica, every time I take a picture, I feel that I am sitting in front of a therapist. All the frustration, fear and loneliness that I once felt ... becomes love. The last country — the last country in the world who abolished slavery is the country where I was born, Brazil. We still have to work hard to abolish discrimination. That remains a common practice worldwide, and that will not disappear by itself. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you."	128年前，世上最後一個國家，廢除了奴隸制。53年前，馬丁．路得．金恩發表了他的演說：「我有一個夢想」。但此時，我們生活的世界，膚色仍不只帶來第一印象，更留下一個長遠的印記。 我出生在一個充滿色彩的家庭，我父親是女佣的兒子，從她身上，他遺傳了強烈的黑巧克力膚色。後來我的祖父母收養了他。女當家，也就是我的祖母有著如瓷的皮膚，如棉絮的頭髮。我祖父的膚色則是介於香草和草莓優格兩者之間，如同我的叔叔和堂弟。我的母親有著肉桂色的皮膚，而她的母親是土生土長的巴西人，膚色帶點榛果和蜂蜜的色調，她的父親則是咖啡牛奶膚色，只不過是咖啡較濃的那一種。我的母親有兩個姊妹，一個是烤花生的膚色。另一個也是收養的，比較偏米色一點，像是鬆餅。 (笑聲) 在這個家庭長大，膚色對我來說向來不重要。然而，一離開家，事情很快就不同了。膚色有許多其他含義。 我記得我的第一堂繪畫課混雜著一堆矛盾的感覺。課堂令人興奮，能發揮創意。但是我始終無法理解，那唯一的肉色鉛筆。我也是血肉之軀，但我不是粉紅色的。我的皮膚是棕色的，但大家說我是黑人。我當時七歲，色彩在我的腦海一片混亂。 之後，當我帶著堂弟去學校，我常常被認為是小保姆。當我在朋友的聚會上進廚房幫忙，大家會以為我是女佣。甚至曾有人把我當成娼妓，只因為我和歐洲裔的朋友一起在沙灘上散步。有許多次，當我去上層階級的居所拜訪我祖母或朋友，有人請我不要使用主電梯。因為，最終，帶著這樣的膚色和頭髮，我不可以屬於某些地方。 某方面，我習慣，也接受了這事實的一部分。但我內心深處仍在纏繞掙扎。 幾年後，我和一個西班牙人結婚，可不是隨便一個西班牙人，我選擇的他，膚色像是被曬傷的龍蝦。 (笑聲) 自此，新的問題來了，你們的小孩會是什麼顏色呢？你們大概也能體會，這是我最不煩惱的事。但思慮及此，以我之前的背景，我的故事引導我成為攝影師，於是就有了 Humanae。 Humanae 旨在追求突顯我們的真實色彩，而非不精確的白色、紅色、黑色、黃色等各種族的標記顏色。這像是一個質疑我們社會常規的遊戲。它從個人故事展開，推向全球的歷史。 我在白色背景上拍攝人物，然後在鼻子上選擇一個11像素的方塊用來塗滿背景。之後在 Pantone 色票上尋找相應的顏色。 從我的家人和朋友開始，透過社群網路的公開召喚，越來越多的人加入這場探險。 我認為網際網路是展現我作品的主要場所，因為我想用一個公開的概念去邀請每個人在電腦上及他們的腦海中按下「分享」鍵。 這個雪球開始滾動。專案得到了極大的歡迎：邀請、展覽、實體形式、美術館和博物館等等，就這樣發生了。在這之中，我最喜愛的是：當 Humanae 佔據了公共空間，出現在大街上，它滋養了普及的討論，而且創造了社群的感覺。 我拍攝了超過3000人，遍及13個國家，全球共19個不同的城市。攝影對象中，有人名列富比士排行榜，也有乘船穿越地中海的難民。可能來自巴黎的聯合國教科文組織總部或者難民營，也有來自瑞士的學生，或是來自里約熱內盧的貧民區。 各種信仰、性別身分、或是身障人士，新生兒或身患絕症的人。我們共同打造了Humanae。 這些照片讓我們重新思考我們看待彼此的方式。當現代科學質疑著種族觀念，對我們來說，黑白黃紅究竟代表什麼？是眼睛、鼻子、嘴巴、頭髮嗎？或者是必須相關於出身、國籍、甚至是銀行帳戶？ 這個個人專案成為一場發現之旅。突然，我意識到Humanae 幫助了許多人。它代表一種鏡子，反射那些無法從刻板印象的標籤中找到自我的人。 神奇的是，人們開始和我分享他們對這個專案的想法。我收到數以百計的來信，我也將與你們分享。 一個母親…一個11歲的女孩的母親寫信給我：「對我來說，這是提升孩子自信心的良好工具。上個禮拜，她的一個女性朋友與她爭執，說她不屬於，也不應被允許在挪威生活。因此你的作品在我心裡有特別的地位。對我來說非常重要。」 一位女士在臉書上分享她的照片，她寫道：「我一生，來自世界的人，很難把我歸類於某個族群、某個刻版印象，或是某個盒子裡。也許他們不該試圖將我歸類，與其把人放入框架分類，不如問每個人：『你如何定義自己？』那麼，我會說：『嗨，我是瑪希爾。我是多明尼加裔荷蘭人，我在多元家庭中長大，而且我是個雙性戀的女性。』 除了這些意外而感人的反應，Humanae也在各個不同領域有了新生。讓我舉其中的幾個例子。插畫家和藝術系學生參考它來做草圖和研究。這是個人臉面孔的集合。 各領域研究人員，包括人類學、物理學以及神經科學，利用Humanae進行科學研究：其中有人類種族、光生理學、面部識別，或是阿茲海默症的研究。 當中最重要的影響是，Humanae被選為「外交事務雜誌」的封面這是最切題相關的一個政治出版物。當我們說到外交，我找到了這個專案的最佳大使…教師們。有些老師把Humanae當做教材。他們的熱情鼓勵了我回到繪畫課上，但這次是以教師的角色。 我的學生們，包括成人與兒童，畫出他們的自畫像，試著發現屬於他們的獨一無二色彩。 身為攝影師，我瞭解到自己可以是人們溝通的管道。做為我自己，做為安潔莉卡，每當我拍一張照片，我感覺自己正坐在心理治療師前面。所有的挫折、恐懼，和孤獨，那些我曾經感受的情緒，都成了愛。 最後一個國家…世界上最後一個廢除了奴隸制的國家。就是我的出生地：巴西。為了消弭歧視，我們尚待努力。歧視在世界各處仍然普遍存在，而且不會自行消失。 謝謝你們。 (鼓掌) 謝謝。
