Talk	en	zh-tw
anne_marie_slaughter_can_we_all_have_it_all	"So my moment of truth did not come all at once. In 2010, I had the chance to be considered for promotion from my job as director of policy planning at the U.S. State Department. This was my moment to lean in, to push myself forward for what are really only a handful of the very top foreign policy jobs, and I had just finished a big, 18-month project for Secretary Clinton, successfully, and I knew I could handle a bigger job. The woman I thought I was would have said yes. But I had been commuting for two years between Washington and Princeton, New Jersey, where my husband and my two teenage sons lived, and it was not going well. I tried on the idea of eking out another two years in Washington, or maybe uprooting my sons from their school and my husband from his work and asking them to join me. But deep down, I knew that the right decision was to go home, even if I didn't fully recognize the woman who was making that choice. That was a decision based on love and responsibility. I couldn't keep watching my oldest son make bad choices without being able to be there for him when and if he needed me. But the real change came more gradually. Over the next year, while my family was righting itself, I started to realize that even if I could go back into government, I didn't want to. I didn't want to miss the last five years that my sons were at home. I finally allowed myself to accept what was really most important to me, not what I was conditioned to want or maybe what I conditioned myself to want, and that decision led to a reassessment of the feminist narrative that I grew up with and have always championed. I am still completely committed to the cause of male-female equality, but let's think about what that equality really means, and how best to achieve it. I always accepted the idea that the most respected and powerful people in our society are men at the top of their careers, so that the measure of male-female equality ought to be how many women are in those positions: prime ministers, presidents, CEOs, directors, managers, Nobel laureates, leaders. I still think we should do everything we possibly can to achieve that goal. But that's only half of real equality, and I now think we're never going to get there unless we recognize the other half. I suggest that real equality, full equality, does not just mean valuing women on male terms. It means creating a much wider range of equally respected choices for women and for men. And to get there, we have to change our workplaces, our policies and our culture. In the workplace, real equality means valuing family just as much as work, and understanding that the two reinforce each other. As a leader and as a manager, I have always acted on the mantra, if family comes first, work does not come second — life comes together. If you work for me, and you have a family issue, I expect you to attend to it, and I am confident, and my confidence has always been borne out, that the work will get done, and done better. Workers who have a reason to get home to care for their children or their family members are more focused, more efficient, more results-focused. And breadwinners who are also caregivers have a much wider range of experiences and contacts. Think about a lawyer who spends part of his time at school events for his kids talking to other parents. He's much more likely to bring in new clients for his firm than a lawyer who never leaves his office. And caregiving itself develops patience — a lot of patience — and empathy, creativity, resilience, adaptability. Those are all attributes that are ever more important in a high-speed, horizontal, networked global economy. The best companies actually know this. The companies that win awards for workplace flexibility in the United States include some of our most successful corporations, and a 2008 national study on the changing workforce showed that employees in flexible and effective workplaces are more engaged with their work, they're more satisfied and more loyal, they have lower levels of stress and higher levels of mental health. And a 2012 study of employers showed that deep, flexible practices actually lowered operating costs and increased adaptability in a global service economy. So you may think that the privileging of work over family is only an American problem. Sadly, though, the obsession with work is no longer a uniquely American disease. Twenty years ago, when my family first started going to Italy, we used to luxuriate in the culture of siesta. Siesta is not just about avoiding the heat of the day. It's actually just as much about embracing the warmth of a family lunch. Now, when we go, fewer and fewer businesses close for siesta, reflecting the advance of global corporations and 24-hour competition. So making a place for those we love is actually a global imperative. In policy terms, real equality means recognizing that the work that women have traditionally done is just as important as the work that men have traditionally done, no matter who does it. Think about it: Breadwinning and caregiving are equally necessary for human survival. At least if we get beyond a barter economy, somebody has to earn an income and someone else has to convert that income to care and sustenance for loved ones. Now most of you, when you hear me talk about breadwinning and caregiving, instinctively translate those categories into men's work and women's work. And we don't typically challenge why men's work is advantaged. But consider a same-sex couple like my friends Sarah and Emily. They're psychiatrists. They got married five years ago, and now they have two-year-old twins. They love being mothers, but they also love their work, and they're really good at what they do. So how are they going to divide up breadwinning and caregiving responsibilities? Should one of them stop working or reduce hours to be home? Or should they both change their practices so they can have much more flexible schedules? And what criteria should they use to make that decision? Is it who makes the most money or who is most committed to her career? Or who has the most flexible boss? The same-sex perspective helps us see that juggling work and family are not women's problems, they're family problems. And Sarah and Emily are the lucky ones, because they have a choice about how much they want to work. Millions of men and women have to be both breadwinners and caregivers just to earn the income they need, and many of those workers are scrambling. They're patching together care arrangements that are inadequate and often actually unsafe. If breadwinning and caregiving are really equal, then why shouldn't a government invest as much in an infrastructure of care as the foundation of a healthy society as it invests in physical infrastructure as the backbone of a successful economy? The governments that get it — no surprises here — the governments that get it, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, provide universal child care, support for caregivers at home, school and early childhood education, protections for pregnant women, and care for the elderly and the disabled. Those governments invest in that infrastructure the same way they invest in roads and bridges and tunnels and trains. Those societies also show you that breadwinning and caregiving reinforce each other. They routinely rank among the top 15 countries of the most globally competitive economies, but at the same time, they rank very high on the OECD Better Life Index. In fact, they rank higher than other governments, like my own, the U.S., or Switzerland, that have higher average levels of income but lower rankings on work-life balance. So changing our workplaces and building infrastructures of care would make a big difference, but we're not going to get equally valued choices unless we change our culture, and the kind of cultural change required means re-socializing men. (Applause) Increasingly in developed countries, women are socialized to believe that our place is no longer only in the home, but men are actually still where they always were. Men are still socialized to believe that they have to be breadwinners, that to derive their self-worth from how high they can climb over other men on a career ladder. The feminist revolution still has a long way to go. It's certainly not complete. But 60 years after ""The Feminine Mystique"" was published, many women actually have more choices than men do. We can decide to be a breadwinner, a caregiver, or any combination of the two. When a man, on the other hand, decides to be a caregiver, he puts his manhood on the line. His friends may praise his decision, but underneath, they're scratching their heads. Isn't the measure of a man his willingness to compete with other men for power and prestige? And as many women hold that view as men do. We know that lots of women still judge the attractiveness of a man based in large part on how successful he is in his career. A woman can drop out of the work force and still be an attractive partner. For a man, that's a risky proposition. So as parents and partners, we should be socializing our sons and our husbands to be whatever they want to be, either caregivers or breadwinners. We should be socializing them to make caregiving cool for guys. (Applause) I can almost hear lots of you thinking, ""No way."" But in fact, the change is  actually already happening. At least in the United States, lots of men take pride in cooking, and frankly obsess over stoves. They are in the birthing rooms. They take paternity leave when they can. They can walk a baby or soothe a toddler just as well as their wives can, and they are increasingly doing much more of the housework. Indeed, there are male college students now who are starting to say, ""I want to be a stay-at-home dad."" That was completely unthinkable 50 or even 30 years ago. And in Norway, where men have an automatic three month's paternity leave, but they lose it if they decide not to take it, a high government official told me that companies are starting to look at prospective male employees and raise an eyebrow if they didn't in fact take their leave when they had kids. That means that it's starting to seem like a character defect not to want to be a fully engaged father. So I was raised to believe that championing women's rights meant doing everything we could to get women to the top. And I still hope that I live long enough to see men and women equally represented at all levels of the work force. But I've come to believe that we have to value family every bit as much as we value work, and that we should entertain the idea that doing right by those we love will make all of us better at everything we do. Thirty years ago, Carol Gilligan, a wonderful psychologist, studied adolescent girls and identified an ethic of care, an element of human nature every bit as important as the ethic of justice. It turns out that ""you don't care"" is just as much a part of who we are as ""that's not fair."" Bill Gates agrees. He argues that the two great forces of human nature are self-interest and caring for others. Let's bring them both together. Let's make the feminist revolution a humanist revolution. As whole human beings, we will be better caregivers and breadwinners. You may think that can't happen, but I grew up in a society where my mother put out small vases of cigarettes for dinner parties, where blacks and whites used separate bathrooms, and where everybody claimed to be heterosexual. Today, not so much. The revolution for human equality can happen. It is happening. It will happen. How far and how fast is up to us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我的人生轉捩點，並沒有一次全部發生在2010年，我很榮幸被提名為美國國務院的政策計劃主任這是我該挺身而進的時刻讓我向前跨一大步因為這是千載難逢的頂尖外交政策工作我才剛為國務卿柯林頓女士順利完成一項18個月的大型專案我知道我可以勝任更重大的工作 要是以前的我一定會說「好！」可是，我在過去兩年經常在華盛頓州和紐澤西州兩地往返由於我先生和兩個十歲的兒子住在那裏而這件事進展的不是很順利我想要擠出兩年的時間在華盛頓工作或是把我兒子和丈夫從他們的學校及公司遷移至此請求他們和我一起努力在我心深處，其實我知道回家才是正確的決定即便我發現我已經無法認識那個做決定的我了 這是個基於愛與責任的決定我無法看著我大兒子一直做錯誤的決定而我卻在他需要我的時候不在他的身邊然而真正的改變卻慢慢地顯現出來事隔了一年家人的生活步調慢慢走上軌道我才發現即便我可以回到政府工作而我卻不想我不想錯過過去五年在家裡陪兒子的那段時間我終於能讓自己去接受對我來說什麼才是最重要的事而不是決定自己想要的事或是習慣自己所做的決定這樣的決定讓我重新評估那伴隨並支持我成長的女權故事我也一直把它奉為圭臬 至今我仍完全信奉著性別平等的理想但讓我們先來思考平等究竟意味著什麼以及如何盡可能實現它我總是相信著一種想法那就是最受尊敬及有權力的人在社會上都是位於高階職位的男性所以在衡量男女平等這事情上照理是探討多少女性人在高階職位上像是首相、總裁、高階經理部長、經理人、諾貝爾獎得主、領導者我們仍然覺得應該努力去實現那個目標但這只是平等的一半而已我現在認為這永遠無法實現除非我們能了解剩下另一半我覺得真正的平等完全的平等不代表我們用男性的標準去實現那個目標這代表要創造出更廣義的觀點來看待並尊重男女之間的平等選擇要達成這樣的目標，我們必須改善工作規範制度以及文化 就工作場所而言真正的平等代表重視家庭等同於重視工作並且懂得這兩者相輔相成身為領導人及經理人我身體力行這句名言如果家庭是第一順位，那工作就不是其次生活本身兩者兼顧如果你為我工作，而你有家庭問題我希望你能照顧好家庭這一點我很有把握事實上每次都能驗證工作不只會做得好，還會越做越好勞工若有充分的理由需要回家照顧孩子跟家人能擁有更高的專注力及工作效率也更重視工作的成果 如養家餬口的人同時身兼照顧者擁有更多的經驗和人脈試想有位律師花時間參加孩子學校的活動同時也可以和其他家長交談比起從未離開辦公室的律師能帶來更多客戶而看護者的工作性質需要耐心非常多的耐心以及同理心、創造力、韌性、適應力這些特質對高速化、平行化、網路化的全球經濟更加重要 頂尖的公司都知道這些特質曾因彈性工作環境得獎過的美國公司有些還是最成功的企業以及一份2008年針對改變工作環境的調查都顯示出員工在彈性且有效率的工作環境下更加投入也有更高的滿意度及忠誠度壓力程度較低心理也比較健康2012年一項對於員工所做的研究顯示出有高度彈性的作法其實可以降低營運成本在全球服務經濟體下更可以增進適應力 你也許會覺得只有在美國會有工作家庭失衡的問題可惜的是，現在不只是美國人才會有這種問題20年前，我帶家人第一次去義大利我們享受當地午睡的文化午睡的習慣不只是躲避中午的熱氣這帶來的意義等同於家庭聚餐的溫暖現在當我們又拜訪當地，已經沒有那麼多商店有午休的時間了這反映出國際企業的發展和高度競爭環境中所以，為我們所愛的人挪出點時間其實是全世界都迫切需要的 就政策面來說真正的平等代表著要意識到女性一直以來所做的工作跟男性一直以來的工作是一樣重要的不論是誰做的試想：養家糊口和照顧家人對於生存一樣重要至少不在以物易物的經濟體系下有人必須要賺到收入其他家人就必須轉換該收入用來照顧和供給他們所愛的家人 大部分人聽到我說養家糊口和照顧家人就會直接聯想成男性和女性的工作而我們通常不會質疑為什麼男人的工作較具優勢如果是同性的情侶像是我的朋友莎拉和艾蜜莉他們都是精神科醫生他們五年前結婚現在有對兩歲的雙胞胎他們都喜歡當媽媽，也喜歡他們的工作他們也很擅長於自己的工作所以他們要怎麼分配養家糊口和照顧小孩的責任呢?是否該有任何一方停止工作或是降低工作時數待在家呢?或著是雙方改變工作習慣才能擁有更彈性的時間呢?而又需要用哪種準則才能讓他們做出決定呢?應該是賺最多錢的人還是最投入工作的人呢?或者是誰的上司最隨和? 用同性婚姻的觀點可以讓我們看到應付工作及家人不只是女性的問題而已這應該是家庭的問題而莎拉和艾蜜莉是幸運的情侶因為他們可以決定他們有多想要投入工作數百萬的男女都需要身兼賺錢養家及照顧家人的角色這樣才能賺到所需的薪水而很多勞工覺得很困擾他們拼湊起托育的安排有些安排不恰當常常有些安排很危險假使賺錢養家跟照顧孩子一樣的重要那我們的政府為什麼投入社會福利基金用來照顧人們的健康無法跟經濟支柱的實體建設一樣多? 懂得這一點的政府其實你們都猜的到這些政府分別是挪威、瑞典、丹麥及荷蘭都提供全面性的托育制度政府支持在家和學校托育以及幼兒教育保護懷孕婦女照顧老年仁及身殘者這些政府投資這種基礎建設和他們投資在道路、橋墩隧道和火車的錢一樣多這些社會也讓你看到賺錢養家和照顧家人是相輔相成的這些國家通常是最具經濟競爭力的前15名不過同時他們在OECD美好生活指數中也名列前茅事實上，比起其他政府，像是我的國家美國或是瑞士的名次都還要來得高這些國家平均收入水平頗高不過在工作與生活的平衡上做得不好 所以改變我們的工作環境並且建立起照護基礎建設就可以帶來改變要是我們沒有先改變自己的文化就無法平等取得有價值的選擇而所謂的文化改變需要 就是讓男性再度社會化(掌聲)在已開發國家社會中的女性相信自己不再只會待在家而已而男性卻還待在原處社會中的男性深信他們需要養家賺錢他們的自我價值取決於職場上的升遷女性主義的革命還有一大段路要努力它顯然尚未完成在《女性的奧秘》一書出版六十年後很多女性其實比起男性擁有更多的選擇我們可以選擇當養家賺錢的人照顧孩子的人，或是兩者皆是另一方面如果男性選擇照顧孩子他的男子氣概就岌岌可危了他的朋友可能會稱讚他的決定但暗地裡卻不以為然我們看待男性的標準不就是男性間互相競爭取得權力和聲望嗎?越來越多女性也有這樣的觀點我們知道許多女性仍然把男性的吸引力的標準放在職場上的成就女性可以輕易離開職場卻還是充滿吸引力的伴侶對男性而言這是很冒險的作法我身為家長也是工作夥伴 我們應該讓我們的兒子和丈夫變得更社會化 讓他們成為想要的角色不論是養家賺錢或是照顧孩子的人我們應該告訴他們照顧孩子是很酷的事(掌聲) 我知道你們會覺得「不可能」事實上，這樣的改變真的在發生至少在美國很多男性對於烹飪引以為傲甚至對爐子很著迷有些男性會去產房盡量爭取陪產假他們會帶小寶寶散步或是安撫學步的孩子跟他們的太太一樣厲害這些男性做的家事也越來越多了事實上，現在有很多男大學生開始想要當「家庭主夫」這種事情在50年前甚至是30年前都無法絕對想像在挪威，男性正常就有三個月的陪產假如果不想放陪產假，這假期就會消失一位高階政府官員告訴我公司會開始關注有潛力的男性員工並且質疑這些不願意放假陪小孩的男員工這代表說無法完全投入當爸爸的員工是被視為有個性缺陷 我從小就相信倡導女性的權力就是要我們竭盡所能讓女性站在最高處我仍希望我能活得夠老才能看到男女在職場上取得平等地位我也相信我們對家庭的重視不亞於我們對工作的重視我們也應該懷抱著一個想法為我們所愛的人做正確的事會讓我們所有事情做得更好 30年前，一位傑出心理學家卡羅爾·吉利根研究青春期少女並且發現關懷倫理這種人性的特質就跟正義一樣的重要原來「漠不關心」其實就跟我們覺得「這不公平」一樣的重要比爾蓋茲也這麼認為他覺得這兩種強大的人性是自我主義同時也關懷他人讓我們將這兩種天性結合在一起讓我們將女權革命變成人類革命全人類都會變成更好的照顧者以及養家的人你可能會覺得這無法實現但是在我成長的社會我的母親以前會在晚餐派對上放置菸灰缸那時黑人和白人用不同的廁所當時人們都宣稱自己是異性戀(觀眾笑聲)現今，即便做得還不夠多人類平等的革命還是會發生現在正在發生未來也會發生要走得多遠和多快發生都取決於我們 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
