Talk	en	zh-tw
annette_heuser_the_3_agencies_with_the_power_to_make_or_break_economies	"Almost two years ago, I was driving in my car in Germany, and I turned on the radio. Europe at the time was in the middle of the Euro crisis, and all the headlines were about European countries getting downgraded by rating agencies in the United States. I listened and thought to myself, ""What are these rating agencies, and why is everybody so upset about their work?"" Well, if you were sitting next to me in the car that day and would have told me that I would devote the next years to trying to reform them, obviously I would have called you crazy. But guess what's really crazy: the way these rating agencies are run. And I would like to explain to you not only why it's time to change this, but also how we can do it. So let me tell you a little bit about what rating agencies really do. As you would read a car magazine before purchasing a new car or taking a look at a product review before deciding which kind of tablet or phone to get, investors are reading ratings before they decide in which kind of product they are investing their money. A rating can range from a so-called AAA, which means it's a top-performing product, and it can go down to the level of the so-called BBB-, which means it's a fairly risky investment. Rating agencies are rating companies. They are rating banks. They are rating even financial products like the infamous mortgage-backed securities. But they can also rate countries, and these ratings are called sovereign ratings, and I would like to focus in particular on these sovereign ratings. And I can tell, as you're listening to me right now, you're thinking, so why should I really care about this, right? Be honest. Well, ratings affect you. They affect all of us. If a rating agency rates a country, it basically assesses and evaluates a country's debt and the ability and willingness of a country to repay its debt. So if a country gets downgraded by a rating agency, the country has to pay more in order to borrow money on the international markets. So it affects you as a citizen and as a taxpayer, because you and your fellow countrymen have to pony up more in order to borrow. But what if a country can't afford to pay more because it's maybe too expensive? Well, then the country has less available for other services, like roads, schools, healthcare. And this is the reason why you should care, because sovereign ratings affect everyone. And that is the reason why I believe they should be defined as public goods. They should be transparent, accessible, and available to everyone at no cost. But here's the situation: the rating agency market is dominated by three players and three players only — Standard & Poor's, Moody's, and Fitch — and we know whenever there is a market concentration, there is really no competition. There is no incentive to improve the quality of your product. And let's face it, the credit rating  agencies have contributed, putting the global economy on the brink, and yet they have to change the way they operate. The second point, would you really buy a car just based on the advice of the dealer? Obviously not, right? That would be irresponsible. But that's actually what's going on in the rating agency sector every single day. The customers of these rating agencies, like countries or companies, they are paying for their own ratings, and obviously this is creating a conflict of interest. The third point is, the rating agencies are not really telling us how they are coming up with their ratings, but in this day and age, you can't even sell a candy bar without listing everything that's inside. But for ratings, a crucial element of our economy, we really do not know what all the different ingredients are. We are allowing the rating agencies to be intransparent about their work, and we need to change this. I think there is no doubt that the sector needs a complete overhaul, not just a trimming at the margins. I think it's time for a bold move. I think it's time to upgrade the system. And this is why we at the Bertelsmann Foundation have invested a lot of time and effort thinking about an alternative for the sector. And we have developed the first model for a nonprofit rating agency for sovereign risk, and we call it by its acronym, INCRA. INCRA would make a difference to the current system by adding another nonprofit player to the mix. It would be based on a nonprofit model that would be based on a sustainable endowment. The endowment would create income that would allow us to run the operation, to run the rating agency, and it would also allow us to make our ratings publicly available. But this is not enough to make a difference, right? INCRA would also be based on a very, very clear governance structure that would avoid any conflict of interest, and it would include many stakeholders from society. INCRA would not only be a European or an American rating agency, it would be a truly international one, in which, in particular, the emerging economies would have an equal interest,  voice and representation. The second big difference that INCRA would make is that would it base its sovereign risk assessment on a broader set of indicators. Think about it that way. If we conduct a sovereign rating, we basically take a look at the economic soil of a country, its macroeconomic fundamentals. But we also have to ask the question, who is cultivating the economic soil of a country, right? Well, a country has many gardeners, and one of them is the government, so we have to ask the question, how is a country governed? How is it managed? And this is the reason why we have developed what we call forward-looking indicators. These are indicators that give you a much better read about the socioeconomic development of a country. I hope you would agree it's important for you to know if your government is willing to invest  in renewable energy and education. It's important for you to know if the government of your country is able to manage a crisis, if the government is finally able to implement the reforms that it's promised. For example, if INCRA would rate South Africa right now, of course we would take a very, very close look at the youth unemployment of the country, the highest in the world. If over 70 percent of a country's population under the age of 35 is unemployed, of course this has a huge impact on the economy today and even more so in the future. Well, our friends at Moody's, Standard & Poor's, and Fitch will tell us we would take this into account as well. But guess what? We do not know exactly how they will take this into account. And this leads me to the third big difference that INCRA would make. INCRA would not only release its ratings but it would also release its indicators and methodology. So in contrast to the current system, INCRA would be fully transparent. So in a nutshell, INCRA would offer an alternative to the current system of the big three rating agencies by adding a new, nonprofit player to the mix that would increase the competition, it would increase the transparency of the sector, and it would also increase the quality. I can tell that sovereign ratings may still look to you like this very small piece of this very complex global financial world, but I tell you it's a very important one, and a very important one to fix, because sovereign ratings affect all of us, and they should be addressed and should be defined as public goods. And this is why we are testing our model right now, and why we are trying to find out if it can bring together a group of able and willing actors to bring INCRA to life. I truly believe building up INCRA is in everyone's interest, and that we have the unique opportunity right now to turn INCRA into a cornerstone of a new, more inclusive financial system. Because for way too long, we have left the big financial players on their own. It's time to give them some company. Thank you. (Applause)"	大約兩年前，我在德國開車時，打開收音機，歐洲當時處於歐債，所有的頭版都是歐洲國家又被美國評級機構降級的消息。那時我不禁自問：「這些評級機構到底是什麼？為何大家對它們的評價這麼在意？」 若那天你是坐在我旁邊，然後告訴我，我未來幾年會試著去改變這些機構，我會毫不猶豫地認定你瘋了。但還有更瘋的：這些評級機構運作的方式。我想跟您解釋，為何現在是做出改變的時刻，同時也會告訴你如何做出改變。 讓我來告訴你，評級機構到底是做什麼的。就像您會先閱讀汽車雜誌，再決定要買哪款新車。或是看完產品的評價，再決定要買哪種平板電腦或手機。投資者也會先看評價，再決定把他們的金錢投資給某種金融產品。評價制度從所謂的「AAA」，意味著表現超級亮眼的產品，降到十分低的評價，稱做「BBB-」，意味著還蠻有風險的投資。評級機構不只評級公司、銀行，還對金融產品評級，比如臭名昭著的不動產抵押債券。連國家也能納入評價，這些評價有稱為「主權評價」。今天我就來重點談談這些主權評價。 我看的出，在場一定有人納悶著，為何我會對這些評價這麼在意？說真心話。這些評價會影響你，也會影響我們所有人。當評級機構評價一個國家時，它基本上就是評估這個國家的債務狀況，以及這個國家還債的能力和意願。所以，若評級機構降低一國的評級，那國家就必須在國際市場上付出更多，才能夠借錢。所以作為公民及納稅人，你會受影響。因為你和其它公民必須接受更高的貨款利息才能借款。若一個國家因為成本過於高昂而負擔不起怎麼辦?這樣一來，國家就無法提供別的服務，如道路、學校、醫療。這就是為什麼你該了解此議題，因為主權評價能夠影響每個人。這就是為什麼我相信，它們該定義為公共財產。它們應該透眀，易取，而且免費提供給大眾。 但情況來了：評級機構的市場是由三大主要的角色壟斷的 —普爾、穆迪、惠譽。眾所皆知，當市場集中時，競爭就不復存在。改善品質的激勵就會消失殆盡。面對現實吧，評級機構好幾次把全球經濟推向邊緣。所以其運作方式有待改善。 第二點就是，你購買汽車時，會單憑經銷商給的建議做決定嗎？肯定不會嘛! 因為這樣不負責任嘛!但實際上，這種運作模式日復一日地出現在評級領域裡。這三大評級機構的顧客們，像是國家或者公司，他們付費獲得自己的評級，這樣一來無庸置疑地產生了利益衝突。 第三點就是，這些評級機構從未讓我們知道他們的評級從何而來。但是在當下，連推銷一個糖果都得一一列出裡面的成分。然而，評級是經濟構成的重要元素，我們卻無從得知裡面的任何一樣細節。我們就這樣讓這些評級機構以不透明的運作方式做出評級，所以我們必須改變現況。 我想這是一塊亟需全面檢查的區域。而不僅僅做些不痛不癢的改變，我認為該是大膽踏出一大步的時候了，是系統升級的時候了。這就是為什麼我們「貝塔斯曼基金會」，投入了大量的時間和精力，為人們提供另一項選擇。我們已開發出第一個模式，是個非營利的主權評價機構，簡稱 INCRA。 INCRA 會改善現有的系統。通過將非營利的評級機構加入戰局，它將建立在非營利的模式上，且會有大量的資金作為後盾。這些資金會創造收入，讓營運更順暢，評級機構也會因此受惠。這也讓我們有機會公開評級的方式。但這麼做還不足以改變現況，對吧?INCRA 也是建立在十分透明的治理結構基礎上，這樣就能避開利益相突，同時吸納許多民間的財產保管人。INCRA 不僅僅是歐洲的、或者美國的評級機構，它會是全球化的評級機構。這樣子，新興經濟才能獲取平等的利益、話語權和代表權。 INCRA 可做出的第二點轉變就是：它的主權評價會採取更加廣泛的指標做評估。這樣想好了，若由我們進行主權評價，我們基本上會觀察一個國家的經濟基本面，它的宏觀經濟基本指標。但我們得先自問：是誰在蓄養國家的經濟基礎？對吧？一個國家有許多給經濟施肥的人，其中之一就是政府。下一個問題就是：一個國家是如何管理的?又是如何運作的？這就是為什麼我們要開發前膽性的指標。這些指標能夠更好地解讀一個國家的社會經濟發展。我希望你會認同接下來的看法：若你的政府願意投資再生能源和教育，你就需要去確認，你國家的政府是否有能力解決危機。你的政府是否最終實施了其承諾的改善。比方說，如果 INCRA目前在評價南非，我們當然會很密切地審視這國家年輕人的失業率，南非的數據是全球最高的。若這個國家 35 歲以下的人口中，超過 70% 都失業了，這對經濟的影響當然很大。現況都這麼糟了，以後的就更別提了。再來看看普爾、穆迪、惠譽會說：這些都有納入評價。但到底有沒有啊? 我們也不知道究竟他們如何將其納入評價的。 這帶我們來到第 3 個INCRA 可以做的轉變。那就是 INCRA 不只會提供其評價，也會顯示其指標和方法。 所以與當今的系統相比，INCRA 的評價方式較為透眀。長話短說，INCRA 會提供另一項選擇，除了當今的 3 大評級機構以外，再加入一個全新的、非營利的評價機構。這樣可以增加競爭，為此區塊增加透明度，以及提升品質。 我明白主權評級對你來說，可能只是複雜的全球金融系統裡渺小的一部分。但我能跟你打包票說，這很重要，且極需解決。因為主權評級會影響每一個人，這問題應當解決，並且應當定義成公共財產。因此我們正在測試這一模式，我們在嘗試組建一支有意願和能力的隊伍，得以讓 INCRA 發揮其作用。我堅信，建立 INCRA符合在座每一位的利益，現在我們有這難得的機會打造 INCRA 為踏基石，讓金融系統換然一新，更有包容性。因為我們已經讓這些金融巨頭獨霸太久了，該是介入的時候了。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
