Talk	en	zh-tw
anthony_d_romero_this_is_what_democracy_looks_like	"Silicon Valley is obsessed with disruption, but these days, the biggest disruptor didn't come out of Silicon Valley. It came out of steel towns in Ohio, rural communities in Pennsylvania, the Panhandle in Florida. And this last US presidential election was the mother of all disruptions. Once again, politics is personal. Millions of Americans became activists overnight, pouring into the streets in record numbers in record time. (Laughter) The election has done to family holiday dinners what Uber has done to New York City's taxi system. Couples have broken up and marriages disrupted. And the election is doing to my private life what Amazon is doing to shopping malls. These days, the ACLU is on the front lines 24/7, and even if I manage to sneak away for a couple of miles on the treadmill, any cardio benefit I get is instantly obliterated when I read another presidential tweet on the headline scroll. Even my secret pleasure of studying the Italian painters have been infected by politics. Now, I study, even stalk, the old masters. This is my desk, with a postcard exhibition of some famous and obscure paintings mostly from the Italian Renaissance. Now, art used to provide me with a necessary break from the hurly-burly of politics in my daily work at the ACLU, but not anymore. I was at the Women's March in San Francisco the day after inauguration, and the crowd was chanting, ""This is what democracy looks like."" ""This is what democracy looks like."" And there I was holding my sign and my umbrella in the rain, and I flashed on an old painting that first captivated me many years ago. I struggled to remember the different pieces of an actual painting of good and bad government. It was almost like the old master was taunting me. You want to know what democracy looks like? Go back and look at my frescoes. And so I did. In 1339, Ambrogio Lorenzetti finished a monumental commission in the governing council chamber of Siena's Palazzo Pubblico. It's a painting that speaks to us, even screams to us, today. ""Art is a lie that makes us realize truth,"" Pablo Picasso once said. And as we search for the truth about government, we should keep Ambrogio's work, not a lie but an allegory, in our collective mind's eye. During Lorenzetti's time, the political legitimacy of Italian city-states was often on very shaky ground. Siena was a republic, but there had been enormous unrest in the two decades leading up to the commission. Siena's political leaders, who would literally govern under the eyes of these allegorical figures, were Lorenzetti's intended audience. He was cataloging the obligations of the governing to the governed. Now, you can spend years studying these frescoes. Some scholars have. I'm hardly an art historian, but I am passionate about art, and a work this massive can overwhelm me. So first, I focus on the big stuff. This is the allegory of good government. The majestic figure here in the middle is dressed in Siena's colors and he personifies the republic itself. Lorenzetti labels him ""Commune,"" and he's basically telling the Sienese that they, and not a king or a tyrant, must rule themselves. Now, surrounding Commune are his advisors. Justice is enthroned. She's looking up at the figure of wisdom, who actually supports her scales of justice. Concord, or Harmony, holds a string that comes off the scales of justice that binds her to the citizens, making them all compatriots in the republic. And finally we see Peace. She looks chilled out, like she's listening to Bob Marley. When good government rules, Peace doesn't break a sweat. Now, these are big images and big ideas, but I really love the small stuff. Along another wall, Lorenzetti illustrates the effects of good government on the real and everyday lives of ordinary people with a series of delicious little details. In the countryside, the hills are landscaped and farmed. Crops are being sown, hoed, reaped, milled, plowed, all in one picture. Crops and livestock are being brought to market. In the city, builders raise a tower. People attend a law lecture, a TED Talk of the 14th century. (Laughter) Schoolchildren play. Tradesmen thrive. Dancers larger than life dance with joy. And watching over the republic is the winged figure Security, whose banner reads, ""Everyone shall go forth freely without fear."" Now, what's amazing about these images from 800 years ago is that they're familiar to us today. We see what democracy looks like. We experience the effects of good government in our lives, just as Lorenzetti did in his life. But it is the allegory of bad government that has been haunting me since November 9. It's badly damaged, but it reads like today's newspapers. And ruling over bad government is not the Commune but the Tyrant. He has horns, tusks, crossed eyes, braided hair. He obviously spends a lot of time on that hair. (Laughter) Justice now lies helpless at his feet, shackled. Her scales have been severed. Justice is the key antagonist to the Tyrant, and she's been taken out. Now, surrounding the Tyrant, Lorenzetti illustrates the vices that animate bad government. Avarice is the old woman clutching the strongbox and a fisherman's hook to pull in her fortune. Vainglory carries a mirror, and Lorenzetti warns us against narcissistic leaders who are guided by their own ego and vanity. On the Tyrant's right is Cruelty. Treason, half lamb, half scorpion, lulls us into a false sense of security and then poisons a republic. Fraud, with the flighty wings of a bat. On the Tyrant's left, you see Division. She's dressed in Siena's colors. ""Si"" and ""No"" are painted on her body. She uses a carpenter's saw to chop her body in half. And Fury wields the weapons of the mob, the stone and knife. In the remainder of the fresco, Lorenzetti shows us the inevitable effects of bad government. The civic ideals celebrated elsewhere in this room have failed us, and we see it. The once beautiful city has fallen to pieces, the countryside barren, the farms abandoned. Many are in flames. And in the sky above is not the winged figure Security, but that of Fear, whose banner reads: ""None shall pass along this road without fear of death."" Now, the final image, the most important one, really, is one that Lorenzetti did not paint. It is of the viewer. Today, the audience for Lorenzetti's frescoes is not the governing but the governed, the individual who stands in front of his allegories and walks away with insight, who heeds a call to action. Lorenzetti warns us that we must recognize the shadows of Avarice, Fraud, Division, even Tyranny when they float across our political landscape, especially when those shadows are cast by political leaders loudly claiming to be the voice of good government and promising to make America great again. And we must act. Democracy must not be a spectator sport. The right to protest, the right to assemble freely, the right to petition one's government, these are not just rights. In the face of Avarice, Fraud and Division, these are obligations. We have to disrupt — (Applause) We have to disrupt our lives so that we can disrupt the amoral accretion of power by those who would betray our values. We and we the people must raise justice up and must bring peace to our nation and must come together in concord, and we have a choice. We could either paint ourselves into the worst nightmare of Lorenzetti's bad government, or we can stay in the streets, disruptive, messy, loud. That is what democracy looks like. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: First of all, wow. Obviously, many people passionately — you spoke to many people passionately here. I'm sure there are other people here who'd say, look, Trump was elected by 63 million people. He's far from perfect, but he's trying to do what he was elected to do. Shouldn't you give him a chance? Anthony Romero: I think we have to recognize the legitimacy of him as president versus the legitimacy of his policies. And when so many of the policies are contrary to fundamental values, that we're all equal under the law, that we're not judged by the color of our skin or the religion we worship, we have to contest those values even as we recognize and honor the fact that our democracy rendered us a president who is championing those values. CA: And the ACLU isn't just this force on the left, right? You're making other arguments as well. AR: Well, you know, very often we piss everyone off at one point. That's what we do. And we recently were taking stands for why Ann Coulter needs to be able to speak at Berkeley, and why Milo has free speech rights. And we even wrote a blog that almost burnt the house down among some of our members, unfortunately, when we talked about the fact that even Donald Trump has free speech rights as president, and an effort to hold him accountable for incitement of violence at his marches or his rallies is unconstitutional and un-American. And when you put that statement out there to a very frothy base that always is very excited for you to fight Donald Trump, and then you have a new one saying, ""Wait, these rights are for everybody, even the president that we don't like."" And that's our job. (Applause) CA: Anthony, you spoke to so many of us so powerfully. Thank you so much. Thank you. (Applause)"	矽谷癡迷於搞破壞。但是，當下最大的破壞者並不來自矽谷。它來自俄亥俄州的鋼鐵城，來自賓夕法尼亞州的偏遠社區，來自佛羅里達的西北角。最近的美國總統選舉就是所有這些破壞的源頭。再次重申，政治是個人的。數以百萬的美國民眾在一夜之間化身為激進份子，以破紀錄的規模和速度湧上街頭。（笑）這場選舉，對於家庭假日聚餐造成的影響，就像優步對於整個紐約計程車系統造成的影響。情侶分手，婚姻破裂。而這場選舉對於我個人生活造成的影響，正如同亞馬遜對於賣場造成的影響。最近，美國公民自由聯盟正全天候、不間斷地堅守前線。即使我能從那裡溜出來，在跑步機上跑上幾英里，當我翻閱頭條，閱讀又一條總統的推文時，剛才所做的所有有氧運動瞬間失去了效果。甚至我研究義大利畫家的癖好也被政治所影響。 我學習、甚至追蹤這些古老的大師們。這是我的書桌以及我的名信片展覽——包括了一些廣為人知，和鮮為人知的藝術作品。大多出自義大利文藝復興時期。過去，藝術在我每天為美國公民自由聯盟工作時，常常可以讓我從政治的喧擾中，得到一絲安寧。不過，如今再也不行了。 總統就職後的第二天，我在舊金山的女性抗議遊行的隊伍中。人群重複地吶喊著：「這就是現如今民主的樣子！」「這就是現如今民主的樣子！」我就在那裡，在雨中一手舉著標語，一手舉著雨傘。然後我突然想起了很多年前就令我入迷的一張古老繪畫。我努力地回憶原本畫作的幾個部分，在畫優秀與糟糕的政府。當時就好像是大師正在奚落我。「你想知道現如今民主的樣子嗎？」「回去好好看看我的壁畫作品吧。」 於是，我就這麼做了。在 1339 年，安布羅吉歐·洛倫澤蒂在西耶納市政廳的理事會大廳裡完成了一份具有里程碑意義的作品。那是一幅向今天的我們述說，甚至吶喊的巨作。「藝術，是一個讓我們了解真相的謊言」，帕波羅·畢加索曾經這樣說。當我們追尋關於政府的真相之時，我們應該讓安布羅吉歐的作品在我們大眾的眼中，成為一則寓言，而不是一句謊言。在洛倫澤蒂所處的時期，義大利城邦的政治合理性是非常值得懷疑的。西耶納過去是一個共和國，但是二十年間不停歇的巨大動亂最終導致了這部作品的誕生。在這些寓言人物眼皮下執政的西耶納的政治領導人，是洛倫澤蒂的目標觀眾。他為被統治者列出了統治階級應有的責任。如今，你可以花上數年時間學習領悟這些壁畫。的確有一些學者是這麼做的。雖然我根本不能算是位藝術史學家，但是我對於藝術抱有滿腔熱血。這樣一幅巨作就可以完全地征服我。那麼首先，我把關注點放在了最突出的部分。這個一個關於優秀政府的寓言。在最中間的那個威嚴的人物身穿西耶納的顏色。他是共和體的擬人化形象。洛倫澤蒂把他標註為「群體。」基本上，他是在告訴西耶納的人民，他們必須統治他們自己，而不是一個國王或一個獨裁者。在「群體」周圍的是他的顧問。「公正」是被加冕的。她正仰望著代表「智慧」的人物。這裡的「智慧」實際上正支撐著代表「公正」的天秤。「和睦」，或者「和諧」拿著從「公正」的天秤垂下來的繩子，將自己和人民捆綁在一起。使他們全都在共和體中成為同胞。最後，我們來看「和平。」她看起來很放鬆，就好像她在聽鮑伯·馬利的歌曲。當一個優秀的政府統治的時候，和平絲毫沒有什麼好擔心的。 這些是突出的形象和概念，但我更喜歡的是細節上的小東西。在另一面牆上，洛倫澤蒂用富有意味的的小細節，描繪了一個優秀的政府對於普通百姓真實、日常的生活所帶來的影響。在鄉間，山坡被用於景觀和農場。在同一個畫面裡，農作物被播種、收割、研磨、粉碎。莊稼和牲口被帶到集市裡。在城市裡，建築工人在建造塔房；人們參加法律講演，可能是一場 14 世紀的 TED 演說； （笑） 學生們在盡情玩耍；商賈繁榮；令人驚艷的舞者愉悅地當街起舞。看顧共和國的是這個帶翅膀的人物，「安全。」他手裡的橫幅寫道，「所有人都應該無所畏懼地向前走。」 令人驚奇的是這些 800 年前的形象，和如今的我們是如此相似。我們看到了民主是什麼樣子。我們感受到一個好的政府在生活中對我們的影響。就像是洛倫澤蒂在他的生活中那樣。 但是，自從 11 月 9 日起，這個失敗政府的寓言一直令我久久不能忘懷。壁畫嚴重受損，但讀起來卻像是今天的報紙。統治壞政府的不是「群眾」，而是「獨裁。」他長著犄角、獠牙、鬥雞眼和編成辮子的頭髮。他很明顯在他的頭髮上花了不少時間。 （笑） 「公正」如今無助地倒在他的腳下，帶著手銬。她的天秤也被折斷。「公正」是「獨裁」的主要對手，而她被打倒了。 如今，在「獨裁」周圍，洛倫澤蒂描繪了幾個邪惡形象，來擬態糟糕的政府。「貪婪」是一位緊緊抓住保險箱和魚鉤的老婦，拉取著她的財富。「自滿」手拿一面鏡子。洛倫澤蒂警告我們遠離那些孤芳自賞的領導者，他們被自己的自尊和虛榮所驅使。在「獨裁」右邊的，是「殘忍」。「背叛」一半是山羊，一半是蠍子。誤導我們產生錯誤的安全感，並荼毒著共和國。「欺騙」，有著蝙蝠擺動的翅膀。在「獨裁」左邊，你可以看到「分裂。」她身穿西耶納的顏色。「贊同」與「反對」寫在她的身上。她用木匠的鉅子將身體且分為兩半。還有「暴怒」揮舞著暴民的武器——石塊和刀具。 在壁畫剩下的部分，洛倫澤蒂向我們展示了一個糟糕的政府所帶來的不可避免的負面影響。我們看到，房間另一邊被稱頌的社會典範讓我們失望。曾經美麗的城市變得支離破碎；鄉下變得貧瘠；農場都被荒廢。很多還燃著熊熊烈火。在空中的也不再是那個帶翅膀的「安全」，而是另一個帶翅膀的人物，「恐懼。」他手中的橫幅寫道：「沒有人可以無畏死亡恐懼地通過這條路。」 最後的一幅畫面，也是最重要的一幅，洛倫澤蒂並沒有畫，而是留給了觀者。如今，洛倫澤蒂作品的觀眾不是統治者，而是被統治的百姓們，站在他寓言前，帶走領悟，付諸於行動的個人。洛倫澤蒂警告我們，必須認出貪婪、欺騙、分裂，甚至暴君的陰影，當它們籠罩我們的政治領域時。更加要認清的是大肆宣稱代表了優秀政府的聲音，且發誓要讓美國重新崛起的政治領袖所帶來的陰影。我們每個人都必須行動起來。民主不是旁觀者的運動， 抗議的權利；集會的權利；向政府請願的權利；這些都不僅僅是權利。面對貪婪、欺騙，和分裂，這些是責任。我們需要干預； （鼓掌） 我們需要干預我們自己的生活，這樣才能干預政治權利不斷不道德地堆積在那些背叛了民眾價值觀的政客手中。我們，和我們的人民必須推舉公義，把和平帶到我們的國家。我們必須和睦地聚攏在一起，我們需要做出選擇。我們要麼把我們自己畫進洛倫澤蒂糟糕政府寓言的恐怖噩夢中，要麼站起來，混亂、大聲地聚集到街道上。這才是現如今民主應該有的樣子。 謝謝。 （鼓掌） 克理斯·安德森：首先，喔！很明顯，在場很多人都非常的熱切——你很熱情地在這裡給大家做了演說。但我敢肯定，在座還會有其他的人會這樣說，你看，川普是被六千三百萬人民選出來的。他遠不完美，但是，他正努力地在做他的工作。你不應該給他一個機會嗎？ 安東尼·羅梅羅：我想我們需要分辨他作為總統一職的合理性，和他的政策的合理性。當他如此多的政策，與我們最基本的價值觀相背離的時候，比如法律面前人人平等，比如我們不應該因我們的膚色與信仰而被評判，我們需要捍衛這些價值，即使我們承認民主制度給我們交出了一位挑戰這些價值觀的總統。 克：美國公民自由聯盟，不只站在左翼陣營，對嗎？你們也會提出其他的觀點。 安：嗯，是的，我們常常在某一刻讓所有人都不高興。可是，這就是我們的工作。我們最近致力於為什麼保守派的安·庫爾特應該被允許在柏克萊加大演說，為什麼極右派的米羅·雅諾波魯斯也應該享有言論自由。我們甚至還寫了部落格，那差點使我們某些員工的家被人放火。真的很不幸，那時我們在探討川普作為總統也有言論自由，試圖讓他為在競選和集會中煽動暴力負起責任，是違反憲法，不符合美國國情。當你把這樣的聲明，放到一心一意要打倒川普，充滿激情泡沫的環境當中，會有人產生一種新的想法，「等一下，每個人都有這些權利，包括我們不喜歡的總統。」這就是我們的工作了。 （鼓掌） 安東尼，你給這麼多人帶來了非常有感染力的演說。 謝謝。非常感謝。 （鼓掌）
