Talk	en	zh-tw
anthony_goldbloom_the_jobs_we_ll_lose_to_machines_and_the_ones_we_won_t	So this is my niece. Her name is Yahli. She is nine months old. Her mum is a doctor, and her dad is a lawyer. By the time Yahli goes to college, the jobs her parents do are going to look dramatically different. In 2013, researchers at Oxford University did a study on the future of work. They concluded that almost one in every two jobs have a high risk of being automated by machines. Machine learning is the technology that's responsible for most of this disruption. It's the most powerful branch of artificial intelligence. It allows machines to learn from data and mimic some of the things that humans can do. My company, Kaggle, operates on the cutting edge of machine learning. We bring together hundreds of thousands of experts to solve important problems for industry and academia. This gives us a unique perspective on what machines can do, what they can't do and what jobs they might automate or threaten. Machine learning started making its way into industry in the early '90s. It started with relatively simple tasks. It started with things like assessing credit risk from loan applications, sorting the mail by reading handwritten characters from zip codes. Over the past few years, we have made dramatic breakthroughs. Machine learning is now capable of far, far more complex tasks. In 2012, Kaggle challenged its community to build an algorithm that could grade high-school essays. The winning algorithms were able to match the grades given by human teachers. Last year, we issued an even more difficult challenge. Can you take images of the eye and diagnose an eye disease called diabetic retinopathy? Again, the winning algorithms were able to match the diagnoses given by human ophthalmologists. Now, given the right data, machines are going to outperform humans at tasks like this. A teacher might read 10,000 essays over a 40-year career. An ophthalmologist might see 50,000 eyes. A machine can read millions of essays or see millions of eyes within minutes. We have no chance of competing against machines on frequent, high-volume tasks. But there are things we can do that machines can't do. Where machines have made very little progress is in tackling novel situations. They can't handle things they haven't seen many times before. The fundamental limitations of machine learning is that it needs to learn from large volumes of past data. Now, humans don't. We have the ability to connect seemingly disparate threads to solve problems we've never seen before. Percy Spencer was a physicist working on radar during World War II, when he noticed the magnetron was melting his chocolate bar. He was able to connect his understanding of electromagnetic radiation with his knowledge of cooking in order to invent — any guesses? — the microwave oven. Now, this is a particularly remarkable example of creativity. But this sort of cross-pollination happens for each of us in small ways thousands of times per day. Machines cannot compete with us when it comes to tackling novel situations, and this puts a fundamental limit on the human tasks that machines will automate. So what does this mean for the future of work? The future state of any single job lies in the answer to a single question: To what extent is that job reducible to frequent, high-volume tasks, and to what extent does it involve tackling novel situations? On frequent, high-volume tasks, machines are getting smarter and smarter. Today they grade essays. They diagnose certain diseases. Over coming years, they're going to conduct our audits, and they're going to read boilerplate from legal contracts. Accountants and lawyers are still needed. They're going to be needed for complex tax structuring, for pathbreaking litigation. But machines will shrink their ranks and make these jobs harder to come by. Now, as mentioned, machines are not making progress on novel situations. The copy behind a marketing campaign needs to grab consumers' attention. It has to stand out from the crowd. Business strategy means finding gaps in the market, things that nobody else is doing. It will be humans that are creating the copy behind our marketing campaigns, and it will be humans that are developing our business strategy. So Yahli, whatever you decide to do, let every day bring you a new challenge. If it does, then you will stay ahead of the machines. Thank you. (Applause)	這是我的姪女，她的名字是雅莉，她現在九個月大，媽媽是位醫生、爸爸是位律師；不過等到她上大學的時候她父母親的工作將會迥然不同了。 2013年，牛津大學的研究人員做了一個對未來工作的研究，他們得出結論：差不多將近一半的工作都有被機器自動化取代的危險。而「機器學習」要對這種顛覆負主要的責任。它是人工智慧最呼風喚雨的分支，它讓機器得以從數據中學習，並模仿一些人類可以做到的事情。我的公司「Kaggle」算是能操控機器學習的尖端科技公司。我們召集了成千上萬的專家為產、學界解決重要的難題。所以我們可以從獨特的角度來觀察機器可以做什麽、不可以做什麽。哪些工作可以被自動化或者受到威脅。 機器學習是在90年代初進入產業界的，一開始，它只是執行一些簡單的任務。像評估貸款申請的信用風險、查看郵遞區號的手寫字碼來分類郵件。過去幾年來我們已經做出多項重大的突破，機器學習現在已經可以完成非常覆雜的任務。在 2012 年 Kaggle 給自家社群出了一道難題，要大家設計出一個演算法來評判高中作文。獲勝的演算法給出的分數居然和真正老師給出的分數相符去年，我們出了一道更難的題目：你可不可以藉由眼球的影像診斷出一種叫「糖尿病視網膜病變」的眼疾？果然，獲勝的演算法給出的診斷可以和人類眼科醫師的診斷相媲美。 只要給定正確的數據 ，機器在類似的任務中將完全超越人類。一位老師，在他的40年職業生涯中也許只能審閱10000篇作文一名眼科醫生，大概可以看50,000隻眼睛但一部機器可以在短短幾分鐘內讀完上百萬篇文章或是看完上百萬顆眼睛。在頻繁、大批量的任務上我們無法與機器抗衡。 不過還是有我們能做而機器做不到的事情，機器在解決複雜的新情況方面進展甚微。它們對還沒看到很多次的事情無法掌握。機器學習的先天限制就是：它需要從大量的過往資料中學習。人類就不一樣了，我們有一種能把看似毫不相關的事物聯系起來的能力，從而解決我們先前還不曾見過的難題。 波西‧史賓塞是二次世界大戰期間，從事雷達研究的物理學家，當他注意到磁控管不斷融化他的巧克力棒時，他能夠把他對電磁波的認知與烹飪的知識做結合，因此發明了—各位猜猜是什麽？微波爐。 這是個特別傑出的創新例子但是這種跨領域的碰撞，每天在我們的周遭會上演好幾千回。在解決新的棘手問題方面機器無法與我們媲美，而這使機器自動化取代人工受到了限制。 那麽這對未來的工作意味著什麽呢？未來工作的狀態完全取決於一個問題：「該工作有多少程度可以縮減成經常性、高產量的任務，以及有多少程度是在解決新的棘手問題？」對於那些頻繁，大批量的任務，機器變得越來越聰明。今天它們能給作文打分數、診斷特定疾病，過了幾年後，它們將可以進行審計、從法律合約中解讀法律語言。盡管會計師和律師還是需要的但僅能研究覆雜的稅務結構及無例可循的法律問題，不過機器將會減少他們的就業機會，增加就業難度。 如同我說過的：機器在處理複雜的新情境上沒有進步！行銷推案的文宣必須擄獲消費者的青睞，它必須脫俗出眾。商業策略必須在市場上找到一些其它人還沒開始做的領域。人類才是營銷文案的創造者，人類才是商業戰略的拓展人 所以，雅莉，不管妳決定要做什麼，讓每一天帶給妳新的挑戰，如果是這樣，那麼妳將永遠領先機器一步。 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
