Talk	en	zh-tw
aparna_rao_art_that_craves_your_attention	Hi. So today, I'd like to share some works in progress. Since we are still realizing these works, we are largely working within the realm of intuition and mystery, still. So I'm going to try and describe some of the experiences that we're looking for through each of the works. So the first work is called the Imperial Monochromes. A viewer sort of unsuspectingly walks into the room, and catches a glimpse of these panels in a messy composition on the wall. Within seconds, as if the panels have noticed the presence of the viewer, they appear to panic and sort of get into a strict symmetry. (Laughter) So this is the sketch of the two states. One is total chaos. The other is absolute order. And we were interested in seeing how little change it takes to move from one state to the other state. This also reminded us of two very different pictorial traditions. One is the altar tablets of the 15th century, and the other is about 100 years ago, Malevich's abstract compositions. So I'm just going to take you to a video. To give you a sense of scale, the largest panel is about two meters high. That's about this much.  And the smallest one is an A4. So a viewer enters the space, and they snap to attention. And after a while, if the viewer continues to remain in the space, the panels will sort of become immune to the presence of the viewer and become lax and autonomous again, until they sort of sense a presence in the room or a movement, when they will again snap to attention. (Laughter) So here it appears as if it's the viewer that's sort of instigating the sense of order among the panels, but it could also be the other way around, that the panels are so stuck within their preconditioned behaviors that they sort of thrust the viewer with the role of a tyrant. So this brings me to a quieter, small work called Handheld. The viewer sees a piece of paper that's mounted on the far end of the wall, but when you go closer, you see that it's a blank A4, or a letter-sized piece of paper, that's held on either side by two small hands that appear to be carved with a great deal of attention and care from a small block of wood. The viewer also sees that this entire sculpture is sort of moving very slightly, as if these two hands are trying to hold the paper very still for a long period of time, and somehow are not managing to. So this instability in the movement very closely resembles the unsteady nature of images seen through a handheld camera. So here I'm going to show you two tandem clips. One is through a still camera and the other is through a handheld camera. And you immediately see how the unsteady nature of the video suggests the presence of an observer and a subjective point of view. So we've just removed the camera and transferred that movement onto the panel. So here's a video. You have to imagine the other hand. It's not there yet. But to us, we're sort of trying to evoke a self-effacing gesture, as if there's a little person with outstretched arms behind this enormous piece of paper. That sort of likens it to the amount of strain to be at the service of the observer and present this piece of paper very delicately to the viewer in front of them. The next work is Decoy. This is a cardboard model, so the object is about as tall as I am. It has a rounded body, two arms, and a very tall, head-like antenna, and its sole purpose is to attract attention towards itself. So when a viewer passes by, it sort of tilts from side to side, and moves its arms more and more frantically as the person gets closer. So here is the first test scenario. You see the two movements integrated, and the object seems to be employing its entire being in this expression of desperation. But the idea is that once it's got the person's attention, it's no longer interested, and it looks for the next person whose attention to get. (Laughter) So this is the final fabricated body of the Decoy. It appears to be mass-manufactured like it came out of a factory like vacuum cleaners and washing machines. Because we are always working from a very personal space, we like how this consumer aesthetic sort of depersonalizes the object and gives us a bit of distance in its appearance, at least. And so to us this is a kind of sinister being which is trying to distract you from the things that actually need your attention, but it could also be a figure that needs a lot of help. The next work is an object, that's also a kind of sound instrument. In the shape of an amphitheater that's scaled to the size of an audience as perceived from somebody from the stage. So from where I'm standing, each of you appears to be this big, and the audience sort of takes the entire field of my vision. Seated in this audience are 996 small figures. They're mechanically enabled to clap of their own free will. This means that each of them can decide if and when they want to clap, how hard, for how long, how they want to be influenced by those around them or influence others, and if they want to contribute to innovation. So when the viewer steps in front of the audience, there will be a response. It could be a few claps or a strong applause, and then nothing happens until the viewer leaves the stage, and again the audience will respond. It could be anything from a few feeble claps from members in the audience, or it could be a very loud ovation. So to us, I think we're really looking at an audience as its own object or its own organism that's also got a sort of musical-like quality to it, an instrument. So the viewer can play it by eliciting quite complex and varied, nuanced musical or sound patterns, but cannot really provoke the audience into any particular kind of response. So there's a sense of judgment and capriciousness and uneasiness involved. It also has an alluring and trap-like quality to it. So here if you see we're quite excited about the image of the head splitting to form the two hands. So here's a small visual animation, as if the two sides of the brain are sort of clashing against each other to kind of make sense of the duality and the tension. And here is a prototype. So we can't wait to be engulfed by 996 of them. Okay, this is the last work. It's called the Framerunners. It comes out of the idea of a window. This is an actual window in our studio, and as you can see, it's made up of three different thicknesses of wooden sections. So we used the same window vocabulary to construct our own frame or grid that's suspended in the room and that can be viewed from two sides. This grid is inhabited by a tribe of small figures. They're also made up of three different sizes, as if to suggest a kind of perspective or landscape on the single plain. Each of these figures can also run backward and forward in the track and hide behind two adjacent tracks. So in contrast to this very tight grid, we wanted to give these figures a very comical and slapstick-like quality, as if a puppeteer has taken them and physically animated them down the path. So we like the idea of these figures sort of skipping along like they're oblivious and carefree and happy-go-lucky and content, until they sort of sense a movement from the viewer and they will hide behind the fastest wall. So to us, this work also presents its own contradiction. These figures are sort of entrapped within this very strong grid, which is like a prison, but also a fortress, because it allows them to be oblivious and naive and carefree and quite oblivious of the external world. So all these real life qualities that I talk about are sort of translated to a very specific technical configuration, and we were very lucky to collaborate with ETH Zurich to develop the first prototype. So you see they extracted the motion cogs from our animations and created a wiggle that integrated the head-bobbing movement and the back-and-forth movement. So it's really quite small. You can see it can fit into the palm of my hand. So imagine our excitement when we saw it really working in the studio, and here it is. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)	大家好，今天我將和你們分享一下正在進行中的工作。因為這些工作還在進行中，我們仍然很大程度上是在直覺和神秘的領域裡努力。那麼現在我將嘗試描述我們想通過每個作品得到的一些體驗。第一個作品名叫《單色帝國》(Imperial Monochromes)，一個觀眾幾乎毫不懷疑地走進了房間，然後瞥到了牆上這些胡亂擺放的畫板。就在一瞬間，彷彿這些畫板注意到了這個觀眾的存在，它們一下變得害怕，然後就變成了一種嚴格的對稱狀態。（笑聲）所以這是兩種狀態的描寫。一種是完全的混亂。另一種是絕對的有序。我們感興趣的是去展示，從一個狀態到另一個所需要的是多麼微小的改變。這也讓我們想起了兩種截然不同的繪畫傳統。一種是15世紀的祭壇桌，另一種是大約100年前馬列維奇（Malevich，俄國畫家）的抽象作品。我現在就給你們看一個影片。爲了讓你們對尺度有個概念，最大的畫板大概兩米高，大概是這樣。最小的畫板是一張A4紙大小。一位觀眾走進這個空間，這些畫板迅速擺正。過了一會，如果這個觀眾一直待在那裡，這些畫板就好比對這個人的存在免疫了一樣，就又變得慵懶而自顧自了。直到它們再一次感覺到房間裡出現了人或者有什麽變化，它們才會再次擺正。（笑聲）這裡，看起來好像是觀眾的出現為這些畫板注入有序感，但是也可以用另一種方式理解，這些畫板完全深陷於它們自己預先設置好的行為模式中，以至於它們的表現讓那位觀眾縣出了暴君的角色。然後，我有了一個更安靜更小的作品，名叫《手握》(Handheld)。觀眾看到一張紙，這張紙掛在墻的遠端，但如果你走的更近，你會發現這是一張空白的A4，或者是信紙大小，這張紙在兩邊被兩隻小手握著，這兩隻手看起來是用一小塊木頭用極大的專注力和細心雕刻出來的。觀眾也會看到，這整個雕塑似乎一點點的移動，就好像這兩隻手是想努力在很長的時間裡靜止的保持握住這張紙，但卻似乎做不到完全不動。所以這移動中的不穩定性就和手持照相機照出的圖片有異曲同工之處。現在我要向你們展示兩幅並列的圖片一幅由靜止的相機拍攝，另一幅是手持的相機。你立刻就能看到，影片的不穩定如何顯示出觀察者的存在以及所處的主觀的視角。所以我們只是去掉了相機，而把這種不穩定的運動移植到了作品裡。這是影片。你需要想像另一隻手的存在，它還不在那裡，但對我們來說，我們某種意義上是在嘗試做出一種謙虛的手勢，就好像在這張巨大的白紙背後有一個小人正伸出雙手。這就給予它一種緊張感，就像在給觀眾服務一樣，把這張紙非常小心翼翼地呈現在觀眾面前。下一個作品叫做《圈套》(Decoy)，這是一個紙板的模型，作品大概和我一樣高，它有一個圓圓的身體，兩條手臂，和一個非常高、像頭一樣的天線，它的唯一目的是爲了把注意力吸引到自己身上。當一個觀眾經過的時候它就左右搖擺，而且隨著這個人越走越近，它會越來越瘋狂的揮舞兩條手臂。這是第一個測試場景，你看到，兩種動作結合在一起，這個物體似乎是把整個自己都投入到這種絕望的表達中。但是，重點是，一旦它得到了這個人的關注，它就不感興趣了，開始尋找下一個人。（笑聲）這是最後為《圈套》製作出來的身體，它看起來像是大規模製作的產品，就好像是從工廠造出來的，比如吸塵器和洗衣機一樣。因為我們總是從個人化的空間工作，我們很喜歡這種消費者美學，讓這個物體不再個人化，而且給我們製造了一點距離，在外表上，至少。所以對我們來說，這個是某種邪惡的存在，它嘗試把你的注意力從實際需要你注意的地方吸引過來，但是它也可以是確實需要很多幫助的一個形象。下一個作品是一個物品，也算是一種樂器，形狀是一個露天圓形劇場，就像一個人在舞臺上看到的那樣，然後按比例縮小到了一個觀眾的大小。從我站的地方來看你們每個人大概這麼大，而觀眾差不多佔據了我整個視野。在觀眾席上是996個小塑像，它們在機械上被設計成可以根據自己的意願來鼓掌，也就是說，它們每一個都可以自己決定什麼時候、以及是否鼓掌，用多少力氣鼓掌，鼓掌多久，決定自己想如何被周圍的人影響，或者影響別人，以及是否願意為創新做貢獻。當一個觀察者走到這些觀眾面前，會產生一個反應。可能是寥寥幾聲，也可能是熱烈的掌聲，然後就沒有動靜了，直到觀察者離開舞臺，這些觀眾又會有反應。可能是觀眾席裡傳來的幾聲微弱的掌聲，也可能是非常熱烈的鼓掌。所以對我們來說，我們真的是把裡面的每個觀眾看做一個獨立的物體或者說獨立的機制，它有一種像音樂一樣的特質，一種樂器。觀察者可以演奏它，通過引發非常複雜、變化多端創新的音樂或者聲音模式，但是不能將觀眾引入到任何特定的反應中，所以這其中有一種判斷、多變和不安的感覺。它也有一種像陷阱一樣誘人的感覺。這裡你看到，我們對這幅大腦分工去操控雙手的圖片很激動。這是一個小小的視覺動畫，就好像大腦的兩側在互相碰撞，去表達二元性和這種緊張。這是一個樣本。我們迫不及待的想被966個這樣的模型包圍了。這裡是最後一個作品，叫做《相框奔跑者》(Framerunners)，它的創意來自於一扇窗戶，這是我們工作室裡真實的一扇窗戶，你看到，它有三種不同厚度的木頭部件。所以我們用了同樣的想法製作了我們自己的相框或者說格子懸掛在房間裡，可以從兩邊看到。這個格子裡住著一個由小人組成的部落。他們也有三種不同尺寸，象徵着在一個平面上看到的視角或者風景。這裡的每個小人可以在軌道上前後跑動，也可以藏在兩條相鄰軌道間。爲了和這個非常擁擠的格子對比，我們希望賦予這些小人很漫畫、很鬧劇的感覺，就好像一個操縱木偶的人真的在軌道上操縱他們一樣。我們很喜歡這種感覺這些小人跳來跳去沒有煩惱、無憂無慮逍遙自得，直到他們感覺到來自觀察者的動作，他們會立刻藏到最近的墻後面。對我們來說，這個作品也表現了它自己的矛盾性。這些小人就像是被困在了這個堅固的格子裡，就像個監獄，但也可以說是城堡，因為這個格子讓他們可以沒有煩惱，天真逍遙，幾乎遺忘外界的存在。我提到的所有這些來自真實生活的特點都被轉化成了一種很特別的技術性設置，我們非常有幸可以和蘇黎世聯邦理工大學合作，造出了第一個模型。你可以看到，他們從我們的動畫裡抽取了這些動作，創造了一鐘擺動的動作，結合了搖擺頭和前後的運動。這個真的很小，你看它可以被我的手掌握住。當我們在工作室裡看到它真的可以用可以想像我們多麼激動現在我把它帶來了。（笑聲）謝謝（笑聲）
