Talk	en	zh-tw
arunachalam_muruganantham_how_i_started_a_sanitary_napkin_revolution	"So I tried to do a small good thing for my wife. It makes me to stand here, the fame, the money I got out of it. So what I did, I'd gone back to my early marriage days. What you did in the early marriage days, you tried to impress your wife. I did the same. On that occasion, I found my wife carrying something like this. I saw. ""What is that?"" I asked. My wife replied, ""None of your business."" Then, being her husband, I ran behind her and saw she had a nasty rag cloth. I don't even use that cloth to clean my two-wheeler. Then I understood this — adapting that unhygienic method to manage her period days. Then I immediately asked her, why are you [using] that unhygienic method? She replied, I also know about [sanitary pads], but myself and my sisters, if they start using that, we have to cut our family milk budget. Then I was shocked. What is the connection between using a sanitary pad and a milk budget? And it's called affordability. I tried to impress my new wife by offering her a packet of sanitary pads. I went to a local shop, I tried to buy her a sanitary pad packet. That fellow looks left and right, and spreads a newspaper, rolls it into the newspaper, gives it to me like a banned item, something like that. I don't know why. I did not ask for a condom. Then I took that pad. I want to see that. What is inside it? The very first time, at the age of 29, that day I am touching the sanitary pad, first ever. I must know: How many of the guys here have touched a sanitary pad? They are not going to touch that, because it's not your matter. Then I thought to myself, white substance, made of cotton — oh my God, that guy is just using a penny value of raw material — inside they are selling for pounds, dollars. Why not make a local sanitary pad for my new wife? That's how all this started, but after making a sanitary pad, where can I check it? It's not like I can just check it in the lab. I need a woman volunteer. Where can I get one in India? Even in Bangalore you won't get [one], in India. So only problem: the only available victim is my wife. Then I made a sanitary pad and handed it to Shanti — my wife's name is Shanti. ""Close your eyes. Whatever I give, it will be not a diamond pendant not a diamond ring, even a chocolate, I will give you a surprise with a lot of tinsel paper rolled up with it. Close your eyes."" Because I tried to make it intimate. Because it's an arranged marriage, not a love marriage. (Laughter) So one day she said, openly, I'm not going to support this research. Then other victims, they got into my sisters. But even sisters, wives, they're not ready to support in the research. That's why I am always jealous with the saints in India. They are having a lot of women volunteers around them. Why I am not getting [any]? You know, without them even calling, they'll get a lot of women volunteers. Then I used, tried to use the medical college girls. They also refused. Finally, I decide, use sanitary pad myself. Now I am having a title like the first man to set foot on the moon. Armstrong. Then Tenzing [and] Hillary, in Everest, like that Muruganantham is the first man wore a sanitary pad across the globe. I wore a sanitary pad. I filled animal blood in a football bottle, I tied it up here, there is a tube going into my panties, while I'm walking, while I'm cycling, I made a press, doses of blood will go there. That makes me bow down to any woman in front of me to give full respect. That five days I'll never forget — the messy days, the lousy days, that wetness. My God, it's unbelievable. But here the problem is, one company is making napkin out of cotton. It is working well. But I am also trying to make sanitary pad with the good cotton. It's not working. That makes me to want to refuse to continue this research and research and research. You need first funds. Not only financial crises, but because of the sanitary pad research, I come through all sorts of problems, including a divorce notice from my wife. Why is this? I used medical college girls. She suspects I am using as a trump card to run behind medical college girls. Finally, I came to know it is a special cellulose derived from a pinewood, but even after that, you need a multimillion-dollar plant like this to process that material. Again, a stop-up. Then I spend another four years to create my own machine tools, a simple machine tool like this. In this machine, any rural woman can apply the same raw materials that they are processing in the multinational plant, anyone can make a world-class napkin at your dining hall. That is my invention. So after that, what I did, usually if anyone got a patent or an invention, immediately you want to make, convert into this. I never did this. I dropped it just like this, because you do this, if anyone runs after money, their life will not [have] any beauty. It is boredom. A lot of people making a lot of money, billion, billions of dollars accumulating. Why are they coming for, finally, for philanthropy? Why the need for accumulating money, then doing philanthropy? What if one decided to start philanthropy from the day one? That's why I am giving this machine only in rural India, for rural women, because in India, [you'll be] surprised, only two percent of women are using sanitary pads. The rest, they're using a rag cloth, a leaf, husk, [saw] dust, everything except sanitary pads. It is the same in the 21st century. That's why I am going to decide to give this machine only for poor women across India. So far, 630 installations happened in 23 states in six other countries. Now I'm on my seventh year sustaining against multinational, transnational giants — makes all MBA students a question mark. A school dropout from Coimbatore, how he is able to sustaining? That makes me a visiting professor and guest lecturer in all IIMs. (Applause) Play video one. (Video) Arunachalam Muruganantham: The thing I saw in my wife's hand, ""Why are you using that nasty cloth?"" She replied immediately, ""I know about napkins, but if I start using napkins, then we have to cut our family milk budget."" Why not make myself a low-cost napkin? So I decided I'm going to sell this new machine only for Women Self Help Groups. That is my idea. AM: And previously, you need a multimillion investment for machine and all. Now, any rural woman can. They are performing puja. (Video): (Singing) You just think, competing giants, even from Harvard, Oxford, is difficult. I make a rural woman to compete with multinationals. I'm sustaining on seventh year. Already 600 installations. What is my mission? I'm going to make India [into] a 100-percent-sanitary-napkin-using country in my lifetime. In this way I'm going to provide not less than a million rural employment that I'm going to create. That's why I'm not running after this bloody money. I'm doing something serious. If you chase a girl, the girl won't like you. Do your job simply, the girl will chase you. Like that, I never chased Mahalakshmi. Mahalakshmi is chasing me, I am keeping in the back pocket. Not in front pocket. I'm a back pocket man. That's all. A school dropout saw your problem in the society of not using sanitary pad. I am becoming a solution provider. I'm very happy. I don't want to make this as a corporate entity. I want to make this as a local sanitary pad movement across the globe. That's why I put all the details on public domain like an open software. Now 110 countries are accessing it. Okay? So I classify the people into three: uneducated, little educated, surplus educated. Little educated, done this. Surplus educated, what are you going to do for the society? Thank you very much. Bye! (Applause)"	我試著幫我太太做件小善事。結果將我送上這個舞台，我也得到一些名聲和金錢。關於我做的事，這得回溯到我剛結婚的時候，你剛結婚的時候會做些什麼？你試著感動你太太。我也這麼做。當時的場景是我發現我太太拿著類似這個的東西。我看到了。我問她：「那是什麼？」她回答：「不關你的事。」身為她的先生，我跑到她後面，看見她拿個一塊髒的破布。我才不會拿那塊布擦我的摩托車。接著我了解了 — 她用那麼不衛生的方法度過她的經期。 接著我馬上問她：「為什麼你用這麼不衛生的方法？」她說：「我也知道衛生棉這種東西，但是如果我還有我的姊妹們開始使用衛生棉，我們就必須減少家中買牛奶的開支。」我聽了很震驚。用衛生棉和買牛奶的錢之間有什麼關係？這就被稱作「負擔能力」。我想給她一盒衛生棉，讓她印象深刻。我去當地一家店舖，試著買一盒衛生棉給她。店員左看右看，翻開一張報紙，將衛生棉捲進報紙內，把它像違禁品一樣拿給我。我不知道為什麼。我又不是買保險套。於是我拿著衛生棉。我想要看看裡面是什麼。 生平第一次，在我29歲的時候，我摸了衛生棉我一定要知道，現場有多少男人曾經摸過衛生棉？他們不會摸啦，因為這不關你們的事。接著我心想，白色材質，由棉花作成，在店裡面它們以好幾英鎊、好幾美金售出。我的天啊，這其中的原料只價值幾分錢啊，為什麼不為我的新老婆做個當地的衛生棉呢？這就是故事的開始。但是做了一塊衛生棉後，我要怎麼測試？我可不能在實驗室內測試。我需要一個女性自願者。在印度我哪裡找的到？即使在印度的班加羅爾你也找不到。所以唯一的問題是我太太是唯一可得的受試者。 接著我做了一塊衛生棉，拿給 Shanti — 我太太的名字叫做 Shanti。「閉上眼睛。不管我給你的是什麼，它既不是鑽石墜子，也不是鑽石戒指，更不是巧克力，我要給你個用很多金箔紙包起來的驚喜。閉上眼睛。」我試著將它變得很親密。因為我們是被指定結婚的，不是因為相愛而結婚的。(笑聲)於是有一天她坦白地說她不會支持我的研究。剩下的受害者就是我的姊妹們。即使是姊妹和妻子，她們都尚未準備好來支持這項研究。這也是為什麼我總是非常忌妒印度的聖人。他們身邊總是有很多女性自願者。為什麼我連一個都找不到？你知道嗎，他們連出聲都不用，就會招來很多女性自願者。接著我試著找醫學院的女生。她們也拒絕了。最後，我決定，我要自己用衛生棉。現在我有個類似第一個踏上月球的男人 — 阿姆斯壯 —還有第一個登上聖母峰 — 丹增和希拉瑞 — 的封號。Muruganantham 是地球上第一個用衛生棉的男人。 我用衛生棉。我將動物的血裝在足球瓶中，我把它綁高在這裡，有一條管子連到我的內褲，當我走路，騎腳踏車，我壓一下，血就會留下去。這讓我跟在我面前的任何女性鞠躬，以展現我對她們的尊敬。我永遠忘不了這五天 —這些混亂，糟糕的日子，還有潮濕。我的天啊，真是令人不敢相信。 但問題是，有個公司用棉花製造餐巾。運作得很好。我也試著用好的棉花製作衛生棉。但是行不通。這讓我有了放棄繼續研究的念頭。首先需要的是資金。因為衛生棉研究，我有的不只是財務危機，還有各種問題，包括我太太的離婚通知。為什麼？因為我和醫學院女生合作。她懷疑這是我用來追醫學院女生的王牌。最後我才了解需要用一種從松木中萃取出的特殊纖維質，但即使這樣，你還是需要像這樣價值價千萬的工廠來製造原料。又是一個障礙。於是我花了四年創造我自己的機器，像這樣一台簡單的機器。投過它，任何鄉村的女人可以用相同的原料，像是他們在幾千萬廠房內處理的原料，任何人都可以在你家餐廳製作世界級的餐巾。這就是我的發明。 在那之後，我做的事情是這樣的，通常如果有人發明了什麼你立刻想要把它申請專利。我從沒這麼做。我把它像這樣丟下，因為如果汲汲營營的人這麼做了，他們的生命一點都不美麗。有的只是無趣。很多人賺了很多錢，幾十億，累積了幾十億的財富。為什麼最後他們要投身於慈善事業？為什麼需要累積財富，然後做慈善事業？如果有人第一天就決定要做慈善事業會是怎麼樣？這就是為什麼我將這台機器只給印度鄉村女人的原因，因為在印度，說出來你會很驚訝，只有百分之二的女人在使用衛生棉。剩下的都用一塊破布，一片葉子，外皮，一些垃圾，反正都不是衛生棉的東西。到21世紀還是一樣。這是為什麼我決定只要給全印度窮困女人這台機器。到目前為止，有630台機器裝在6個其他國家的23個州裡面。 現在已經是我持續對抗跨國大規模企業的第七年 —這對所有MBA學生都是一個疑問。一個哥印拜陀的輟學生，他是如何能夠堅持下來？於是我變成印度管理學院的客座教授和客座講師。(掌聲)播放第一個影片。 (影片) Arunachalam Muruganantham：我看到我太太手中的東西：「為什麼你要用那塊髒布？」她立刻回答：「我知道衛生棉，但是如果我開始用衛生棉，我們就必須減少家中買牛奶的開支。」我什麼我不自己做低成本的衛生棉呢？於是我決定只將這台新機器賣給女人自助團體。這就是我的想法。 以前你需要投資幾千萬在機器和所有設備中。現在，任何鄉村女人都可以做。她們在進行普迦儀式(印度教向神祇膜拜儀式)。(影片)：(歌聲)你想想，跟巨人競爭，即使跟哈佛和牛津競爭都很困難了。我讓鄉村的女人和跨國企業競爭。我已經持續了七年了。大約裝了600台機器。我的任務是什麼？我要在我有生之日，讓印度成為百分之百使用衛生棉的國家。透過這個任務，我會創造超過一百萬的鄉村就業機會。這也是為什麼我不追求沾滿血腥的金錢。我要做重要的事。如果你追一個女孩，她不喜歡你。只要做你的工作，她就會來追你。就像這樣，我從沒有追過 Mahalakshmi。Mahalakshmi 追著我跑，我把它放在我的後口袋裡。不放在前面的口袋。我是個放後口袋的男人。這就是我的故事。一個輟學生看到社會中不使用衛生棉的問題。我現在變成一個解決問題的人。我很開心。我不要將這變成一家實體的公司。我要將這當地的衛生棉運動推廣到全球。這是為什麼我將所有細節當成開放軟體般分享給大眾。現在有110個國家在評量這個計畫。相信嗎？於是我將人們分成三類：未受教育的，受一點點教育的，受太多教育的。受一點點教育的做了這個。受太多教育的。你將為這個社會做什麼？ 謝謝你們。再見！ (掌聲)
