Talk	en	zh-tw
asha_de_vos_why_you_should_care_about_whale_poo	"In the 1600s, there were so many right whales in Cape Cod Bay off the east coast of the U.S. that apparently you could walk across their backs from one end of the bay to the other. Today, they number in the hundreds, and they're endangered. Like them, many species of whales saw their numbers drastically reduced by 200 years of whaling, where they were hunted and killed for their whale meat, oil and whale bone. We only have whales in our waters today because of the Save the Whales movement of the '70s. It was instrumental in stopping commercial whaling, and was built on the idea that if we couldn't save whales, what could we save? It was ultimately a test of our political ability to halt environmental destruction. So in the early '80s, there was a ban on commercial whaling that came into force as a result of this campaign. Whales in our waters are still low in numbers, however, because they do face a range of other human-induced threats. Unfortunately, many people still think that whale conservationists like myself do what we do only because these creatures are charismatic and beautiful. This is actually a disservice, because whales are ecosystem engineers. They help maintain the stability and health of the oceans, and even provide services to human society. So let's talk about why saving whales is critical to the resiliency of the oceans. It boils down to two main things: whale poop and rotting carcasses. As whales dive to the depths to feed and come up to the surface to breathe, they actually release these enormous fecal plumes. This whale pump, as it's called, actually brings essential limiting  nutrients from the depths to the surface waters where they  stimulate the growth of phytoplankton, which forms the base of all marine food chains. So really, having more whales in the oceans pooping is really beneficial to the entire ecosystem. Whales are also known to undertake some  of the longest migrations of all mammals. Gray whales off America migrate 16,000 kilometers between productive feeding areas and less productive calving, or birthing, areas and back every year. As they do so, they transport fertilizer in the form of their feces from places that have it to places that need it. So clearly, whales are really important in nutrient cycling, both horizontally and vertically, through the oceans. But what's really cool is that they're  also really important after they're dead. Whale carcasses are some of  the largest form of detritus to fall from the ocean's surface,  and they're called whale fall. As these carcasses sink, they provide a feast to some 400-odd species, including the eel-shaped, slime-producing  hagfish. So over the 200 years of whaling, when we were busy killing and removing these carcasses from the oceans, we likely altered the rate and geographic  distribution of these whale falls that would descend into deep oceans, and as a result, probably led to a number of extinctions of species that were most specialized and dependent on these carcasses for their survival. Whale carcasses are also known to transport about 190,000 tons of carbon, which is the equivalent of that produced by 80,000 cars per year from the atmosphere to the deep oceans, and the deep oceans are what we call ""carbon sinks,"" because they trap and hold excess carbon from the atmosphere, and therefore help to delay global warming. Sometimes these carcasses also wash up on beaches and provide a meal to a number of predatory species on land. The 200 years of whaling was clearly detrimental and caused a reduction in the populations of whales between 60 to 90 percent. Clearly, the Save the Whales movement was instrumental in preventing commercial whaling from going on, but we need to revise this. We need to address the more modern, pressing problems that these whales face in our waters today. Amongst other things, we need to stop them from getting plowed down by container  ships when they're in their feeding areas, and stop them from getting entangled in fishing nets as they float around in the ocean. We also need to learn to contextualize our conservation messages, so people really understand the true  ecosystem value of these creatures. So, let's save the whales again, but this time, let's not just  do it for their sake. Let's also do it for ours. Thank you. (Applause)"	17世紀，在美國東海岸的科德角灣生活著大量的露脊鯨。牠们數量之多，以至於你幾乎都能踩著鯨魚背從海灣的一端走向另一端。如今，牠們只剩數百隻，瀕臨滅絕。同露脊鯨一樣，許多其他種類的鯨魚數量也急劇下降，正是由於這兩百年來的捕鯨活動。這期間鯨魚被獵殺，被獵取鯨魚肉、鯨魚油，和鯨魚骨。 今天我們的海域中之所以還有鯨魚，是因為70年代的「拯救鯨魚」運動。該運動有效阻止了商業捕鯨，其基本理念是：如果我們連鯨魚都拯救不了，我們還能拯救什么？這實質上考驗了我們的政治能力，阻止環境破壞的政治能力。這項運動的一個成果就是1980年代初商業捕鯨禁令的頒布。不過，我們的海域中鯨魚數量仍舊稀少，因為鯨魚還面臨一系列其他的人類造成的威脅。 很不幸，很多人仍覺得我這樣的鯨魚保護人士是出於欣賞鯨魚的魅力和美麗而保護鯨魚。這種思維其實會起反作用，因為鯨魚是生態系統的工程師。牠們幫助維護海洋的穩定和健康，甚至還能為人類社會做貢獻。 讓我們來談談為什麼拯救鯨魚對保證海洋的自我調節很重要。歸根結底是兩個主要的東西：鯨魚糞便和腐爛遺骸。 當鯨魚潛入深海捕食然後浮上海面呼吸時，牠們排放出巨量的排泄流。這種所謂的鯨魚泵能將深海中的稀缺關鍵養分帶到水表，促進浮游生物的生長，而浮游生物是一切海洋食物鏈的基礎。所以，讓更多的鯨魚在海洋中排泄會對整個生態系統都有好處。 鯨魚還是遷徙距離最遠的哺乳動物之一。灰鯨每年遷徙1萬6千公里來回在營養豐富的捕食水域和營養欠缺的繁殖水域之間。在此過程中，牠們的糞便作為肥料被從養分富饒的地方運送到養分稀缺的地方。很顯然，鯨魚在海洋的營養循環中起重要作用，無論是縱向還是橫向的營養循環。 但非常有意思的是，牠們死後也起重要作用。鯨魚遺骸是海平面下最大的腐質之一，它們被稱作鯨魚下沉物。當遺骸下沉時，它們給400個物種提供了盛宴，其中包括鰻魚狀的、產生粘液的盲鰻。所以，超過200年的捕鯨，我們在匆忙殺戮，從海洋中移除這些遺骸的同時，我們也很可能改變了這些鯨魚下沉物的產生率和地理分布，而這很可能導致了一些專門食用和依靠這種遺骸生存的生物的滅絕。 鯨魚的遺骸也能運輸約19萬噸的碳，這相當於8萬輛汽車一年從大氣到海洋的碳排放。深海被我們稱為「碳池」，因為那裡能鎖住和存儲大氣中多餘的碳，從而幫助減緩全球暖化。有時這些遺骸還被沖刷上海岸，為陸地上的一些捕獵生物提供食物。 這二百年的捕鯨行為破壞巨大，它導致鯨魚數量減少了60%到90%。拯救鯨魚行動在阻止商業捕鯨中確實起了關鍵作用，但我們還需要做一些改進。我們需要應對如今鯨魚所面臨的更當代，更緊迫的問題。其中，我們要防止鯨魚在餵養水域中被運輸船撞死，還要防止鯨魚在海洋上游蕩時被漁網纏住。我們還需學會將我們的動物保護資訊具體化，以便人們能夠真正了解這些生物的實際生態價值。 讓我們再次拯救鯨魚，然而這次，我們這樣做不僅是為鯨魚，也是為我們自己！ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
