Talk	en	zh-tw
auke_ijspeert_a_robot_that_runs_and_swims_like_a_salamander	This is Pleurobot. Pleurobot is a robot that we designed to closely mimic a salamander species called Pleurodeles waltl. Pleurobot can walk, as you can see here, and as you'll see later, it can also swim. So you might ask, why did we design this robot? And in fact, this robot has been designed as a scientific tool for neuroscience. Indeed, we designed it together with neurobiologists to understand how animals move, and especially how the spinal cord controls locomotion. But the more I work in biorobotics, the more I'm really impressed by animal locomotion. If you think of a dolphin swimming or a cat running or jumping around, or even us as humans, when you go jogging or play tennis, we do amazing things. And in fact, our nervous system solves a very, very complex control problem. It has to coordinate more or less 200 muscles perfectly, because if the coordination is bad, we fall over or we do bad locomotion. And my goal is to understand how this works. There are four main components behind animal locomotion. The first component is just the body, and in fact we should never underestimate to what extent the biomechanics already simplify locomotion in animals. Then you have the spinal cord, and in the spinal cord you find reflexes, multiple reflexes that create a sensorimotor coordination loop between neural activity in the spinal cord and mechanical activity. A third component are central pattern generators. These are very interesting circuits in the spinal cord of vertebrate animals that can generate, by themselves, very coordinated rhythmic patterns of activity while receiving only very simple input signals. And these input signals coming from descending modulation from higher parts of the brain, like the motor cortex, the cerebellum, the basal ganglia, will all modulate activity of the spinal cord while we do locomotion. But what's interesting is to what extent just a low-level component, the spinal cord, together with the body, already solve a big part of the locomotion problem. You probably know it by the fact that you can cut the head off a chicken, it can still run for a while, showing that just the lower part, spinal cord and body, already solve a big part of locomotion. Now, understanding how this works is very complex, because first of all, recording activity in the spinal cord is very difficult. It's much easier to implant electrodes in the motor cortex than in the spinal cord, because it's protected by the vertebrae. Especially in humans, very hard to do. A second difficulty is that locomotion is really due to a very complex and very dynamic interaction between these four components. So it's very hard to find out what's the role of each over time. This is where biorobots like Pleurobot and mathematical models can really help. So what's biorobotics? Biorobotics is a very active field of research in robotics where people want to take inspiration from animals to make robots to go outdoors, like service robots or search and rescue robots or field robots. And the big goal here is to take inspiration from animals to make robots that can handle complex terrain — stairs, mountains, forests, places where robots still have difficulties and where animals can do a much better job. The robot can be a wonderful scientific tool as well. There are some very nice projects where robots are used, like a scientific tool for neuroscience, for biomechanics or for hydrodynamics. And this is exactly the purpose of Pleurobot. So what we do in my lab is to collaborate with neurobiologists like Jean-Marie Cabelguen, a neurobiologist in Bordeaux in France, and we want to make spinal cord models and validate them on robots. And here we want to start simple. So it's good to start with simple animals like lampreys, which are very primitive fish, and then gradually go toward more complex locomotion, like in salamanders, but also in cats and in humans, in mammals. And here, a robot becomes an interesting tool to validate our models. And in fact, for me, Pleurobot is a kind of dream becoming true. Like, more or less 20 years ago I was already working on a computer making simulations of lamprey and salamander locomotion during my PhD. But I always knew that my simulations were just approximations. Like, simulating the physics in water or with mud or with complex ground, it's very hard to simulate that properly on a computer. Why not have a real robot and real physics? So among all these animals, one of my favorites is the salamander. You might ask why, and it's because as an amphibian, it's a really key animal from an evolutionary point of view. It makes a wonderful link between swimming, as you find it in eels or fish, and quadruped locomotion, as you see in mammals, in cats and humans. And in fact, the modern salamander is very close to the first terrestrial vertebrate, so it's almost a living fossil, which gives us access to our ancestor, the ancestor to all terrestrial tetrapods. So the salamander swims by doing what's called an anguilliform swimming gait, so they propagate a nice traveling wave of muscle activity from head to tail. And if you place the salamander on the ground, it switches to what's called a walking trot gait. In this case, you have nice periodic activation of the limbs which are very nicely coordinated with this standing wave undulation of the body, and that's exactly the gait that you are seeing here on Pleurobot. Now, one thing which is very surprising and fascinating in fact is the fact that all this can be generated just by the spinal cord and the body. So if you take a decerebrated salamander — it's not so nice but you remove the head — and if you electrically stimulate the spinal cord, at low level of stimulation this will induce a walking-like gait. If you stimulate a bit more, the gait accelerates. And at some point, there's a threshold, and automatically, the animal switches to swimming. This is amazing. Just changing the global drive, as if you are pressing the gas pedal of descending modulation to your spinal cord, makes a complete switch between two very different gaits. And in fact, the same has been observed in cats. If you stimulate the spinal cord of a cat, you can switch between walk, trot and gallop. Or in birds, you can make a bird switch between walking, at a low level of stimulation, and flapping its wings at high-level stimulation. And this really shows that the spinal cord is a very sophisticated locomotion controller. So we studied salamander locomotion in more detail, and we had in fact access to a very nice X-ray video machine from Professor Martin Fischer in Jena University in Germany. And thanks to that, you really have an amazing machine to record all the bone motion in great detail. That's what we did. So we basically figured out which bones are important for us and collected their motion in 3D. And what we did is collect a whole database of motions, both on ground and in water, to really collect a whole database of motor behaviors that a real animal can do. And then our job as roboticists was to replicate that in our robot. So we did a whole optimization process to find out the right structure, where to place the motors, how to connect them together, to be able to replay these motions as well as possible. And this is how Pleurobot came to life. So let's look at how close it is to the real animal. So what you see here is almost a direct comparison between the walking of the real animal and the Pleurobot. You can see that we have almost a one-to-one exact replay of the walking gait. If you go backwards and slowly, you see it even better. But even better, we can do swimming. So for that we have a dry suit that we put all over the robot — (Laughter) and then we can go in water and start replaying the swimming gaits. And here, we were very happy, because this is difficult to do. The physics of interaction are complex. Our robot is much bigger than a small animal, so we had to do what's called dynamic scaling of the frequencies to make sure we had the same interaction physics. But you see at the end, we have a very close match, and we were very, very happy with this. So let's go to the spinal cord. So here what we did with Jean-Marie Cabelguen is model the spinal cord circuits. And what's interesting is that the salamander has kept a very primitive circuit, which is very similar to the one we find in the lamprey, this primitive eel-like fish, and it looks like during evolution, new neural oscillators have been added to control the limbs, to do the leg locomotion. And we know where these neural oscillators are but what we did was to make a mathematical model to see how they should be coupled to allow this transition between the two very different gaits. And we tested that on board of a robot. And this is how it looks. So what you see here is a previous version of Pleurobot that's completely controlled by our spinal cord model programmed on board of the robot. And the only thing we do is send to the robot through a remote control the two descending signals it normally should receive from the upper part of the brain. And what's interesting is, by playing with these signals, we can completely control speed, heading and type of gait. For instance, when we stimulate at a low level, we have the walking gait, and at some point, if we stimulate a lot, very rapidly it switches to the swimming gait. And finally, we can also do turning very nicely by just stimulating more one side of the spinal cord than the other. And I think it's really beautiful how nature has distributed control to really give a lot of responsibility to the spinal cord so that the upper part of the brain doesn't need to worry about every muscle. It just has to worry about this high-level modulation, and it's really the job of the spinal cord to coordinate all the muscles. So now let's go to cat locomotion and the importance of biomechanics. So this is another project where we studied cat biomechanics, and we wanted to see how much the morphology helps locomotion. And we found three important criteria in the properties, basically, of the limbs. The first one is that a cat limb more or less looks like a pantograph-like structure. So a pantograph is a mechanical structure which keeps the upper segment and the lower segments always parallel. So a simple geometrical system that kind of coordinates a bit the internal movement of the segments. A second property of cat limbs is that they are very lightweight. Most of the muscles are in the trunk, which is a good idea, because then the limbs have low inertia and can be moved very rapidly. The last final important property is this very elastic behavior of the cat limb, so to handle impacts and forces. And this is how we designed Cheetah-Cub. So let's invite Cheetah-Cub onstage. So this is Peter Eckert, who does his PhD on this robot, and as you see, it's a cute little robot. It looks a bit like a toy, but it was really used as a scientific tool to investigate these properties of the legs of the cat. So you see, it's very compliant, very lightweight, and also very elastic, so you can easily press it down and it will not break. It will just jump, in fact. And this very elastic property is also very important. And you also see a bit these properties of these three segments of the leg as pantograph. Now, what's interesting is that this quite dynamic gait is obtained purely in open loop, meaning no sensors, no complex feedback loops. And that's interesting, because it means that just the mechanics already stabilized this quite rapid gait, and that really good mechanics already basically simplify locomotion. To the extent that we can even disturb a bit locomotion, as you will see in the next video, where we can for instance do some exercise where we have the robot go down a step, and the robot will not fall over, which was a surprise for us. This is a small perturbation. I was expecting the robot to immediately fall over, because there are no sensors, no fast feedback loop. But no, just the mechanics stabilized the gait, and the robot doesn't fall over. Obviously, if you make the step bigger, and if you have obstacles, you need the full control loops and reflexes and everything. But what's important here is that just for small perturbation, the mechanics are right. And I think this is a very important message from biomechanics and robotics to neuroscience, saying don't underestimate to what extent the body already helps locomotion. Now, how does this relate to human locomotion? Clearly, human locomotion is more complex than cat and salamander locomotion, but at the same time, the nervous system of humans is very similar to that of other vertebrates. And especially the spinal cord is also the key controller for locomotion in humans. That's why, if there's a lesion of the spinal cord, this has dramatic effects. The person can become paraplegic or tetraplegic. This is because the brain loses this communication with the spinal cord. Especially, it loses this descending modulation to initiate and modulate locomotion. So a big goal of neuroprosthetics is to be able to reactivate that communication using electrical or chemical stimulations. And there are several teams in the world that do exactly that, especially at EPFL. My colleagues Grégoire Courtine and Silvestro Micera, with whom I collaborate. But to do this properly, it's very important to understand how the spinal cord works, how it interacts with the body, and how the brain communicates with the spinal cord. This is where the robots and models that I've presented today will hopefully play a key role towards these very important goals. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Auke, I've seen in your lab other robots that do things like swim in pollution and measure the pollution while they swim. But for this one, you mentioned in your talk, like a side project, search and rescue, and it does have a camera on its nose. Auke Ijspeert: Absolutely. So the robot — We have some spin-off projects where we would like to use the robots to do search and rescue inspection, so this robot is now seeing you. And the big dream is to, if you have a difficult situation like a collapsed building or a building that is flooded, and this is very dangerous for a rescue team or even rescue dogs, why not send in a robot that can crawl around, swim, walk, with a camera onboard to do inspection and identify survivors and possibly create a communication link with the survivor. BG: Of course, assuming the survivors don't get scared by the shape of this. AI: Yeah, we should probably change the appearance quite a bit, because here I guess a survivor might die of a heart attack just of being worried that this would feed on you. But by changing the appearance and it making it more robust, I'm sure we can make a good tool out of it. BG: Thank you very much. Thank you and your team.	這是機械蠑螈，機械蠑螈是一種遙控機具，我們設計時，高度模擬了一類稱為歐非肋突螈的兩棲類。你可以看到，機械蠑螈能夠走路，稍後你也會看到，它會游泳， 你可能會問，我們為甚麼要設計這一類的遙控機械?事實上，這具機械是設計來作為腦神經研究的科研工具。我們也確實在設計的時候，夥同腦神經學家們去理解動物怎樣律動，尤其去理解脊髓如何控制肢體行動。但當我在機械生物做出愈多的研究，我愈訝異於動物的肢體行動。請你想像一下，一隻海豚的游泳或一隻貓兒的奔跑跳躍，或甚至是我們人類在慢跑或打網球時，我們是在做驚奇的事情。事實上，我們的神經系統解決了一個非常非常複雜的控制問題。它需要完美得協調大約二百組肌肉，如果協調得不好，我們會摔倒，或行動得蹩扭。而我的目標就是要理解這是如何運作的。 動物的肢體行動，有四個主要元件。第一個元件就是身體，事實上，我們都不應該低估生物力學已經簡化動物的肢體行動到哪種程度。第二個元件就是脊髓，你在脊髓裡可以找到反射作用，多重反射作用會在脊髓的神經活動與機械活動之間產生出一種感知運動的協調迴路，第三個元件是中樞模式產生器。這些非常有趣的迴路，存在於脊椎動物的脊髓裏，當它接收到非常簡單的輸入訊號時，它們可以自己產生出非常協調且有節奏感的運動，而這些輸入訊號，就是從大腦內較高部位發射出來的「下行性調控」訊號，就如同運動皮質層、小腦，基底核一樣，而當我們在做肢體活動的時候，它能夠調控脊髓的所有活動。有趣的是，在某些程度上，這些脊髓，連同身體，已經可以解決大部份肢體的活動問題。你大概也知道一個事實，當一隻雞被砍頭之後，它還可以再跑一會兒，這表示，僅僅較低部位的脊髓和身體，已經解決了大部份肢體活動的問題。 要理解這是如何運作的，其實也蠻複雜的，因為，首先，要記錄脊髓裡面的活動非常困難。在大腦運動皮層植入電極遠比在脊髓植入電極容易，因為它被脊椎骨保護著。尤其是在人類身上，非常難辦到。第二個困難，有很大的原因是，肢體行動在這四個元件之間，是非常複雜且動態交互作用著的。所以每次要找出那一個元件擔任那一個角色，真的是很困難。這也是為什麼機械生物，在建立像是機械蠑螈和數學模組上很有幫助的原因。 所以甚麼是機械生物呢？機械生物是機械科研裡一個非常活躍的領域，人們都想從動物裡得到啟發，製成一些可以到户外去的機械人，像是一些服務業機械人，或是可從事搜索和救援的機械人或是農耕機械人。而主要目的就是，要從動物身上得到啟發來製造一些機械人，可以處理一些複雜的地形—像是樓梯、山脈、森林、一些機械人仍然遇到困難的地方，以及動物可以做得更好的地方。機械人同樣也是神奇的科研工具，有些很棒的科研項目利用機械人做為腦神經、生物力學或水力學的科研工具。而這就是做機械蠑螈的目的。在我的實驗室，我們夥同腦神經生物學家例如法國波爾多的腦神經生物學家Jean-Marie Cabelguen，我們打算製作出脊髓的模型，然後在機器人上驗証。我們希望從簡單出發。 所以從簡單的動物開始就好，像是七鰓鰻，非常原始的魚類，然後逐漸地邁向更複雜的肢體活動，像是蜥蜴，但也包含貓、人類，哺乳動物等。所以，機械人成為了一個可以驗証我們模型的有趣工具。事實上對我來說，機械蠑螈算是圓了我一個夢想。大概二十年前，在我博士班的期間，我已經在電腦上，製作一些七鰓鰻和蜥蜴肢體活動的模擬，但我一直以來都知道，我的模擬只是粗略概算。像是在水中模擬物理現象，或是在混雜泥土裡或是複雜的地表面上，這些都是很難在電腦上適當地模擬出來的。為什麼不乾脆做一個真實的機械人或真實的物體？在眾多的動物裡，蜥蜴是我喜歡的其中之一。你大概想知道為什麼，因為以兩棲動物而言，從進化的角度來看，蜥蜴其實是很重要的動物。它完美的串聯起水棲動物的游泳（像是鰻魚或魚）以及哺乳類動物的四肢活動（像是貓或人）。事實上，現代的蜥蜴與第一代的陸棲脊椎動物非常相近，幾乎就是一種活化石，讓我們可以接近自己的祖宗，所有陸棲四肢動物的祖宗。 蜥蜴是藉由一種稱為鰻游的泳態，來進行游泳的動作，它們從頭部到尾部的肌肉活動，傳遞出一種很優美的游行波浪。而當你把蜥蜴放在地面上時，它又會轉化為快走的步態。在這個案例，你有很好的週期性肢體律動可以非常好地協調出這樣持續性波浪的身體起伏，就如你們現在所看到的機械蠑螈的步態。事實上，其中一件很令人訝異卻又讚嘆的事實就是...這些活動可以僅藉由脊髓和身體就可以啟動了。所以即使是一隻沒有腦袋的蜥蜴 —那不是太好, 但當移除了頭顱—而你用電殛刺激脊髓，在低電流的刺激下，會做出走路一樣的步態。如果你稍稍加強刺激度，步伐就會隨之加快。到了若干程度，會有一個臨界點，隨後，動物會自動地從行走轉為游泳這真是神乎其技。只是改變了中央的驅動器，就如同你在踩油門一樣，把下行性調控訊號傳遞到你的脊髓，在兩種不一樣的模式間相互切換。其實同樣的情況，在貓身上也觀察得到，如果你刺激一隻貓的脊髓，你能夠在其間切換模式：行走、緩跑和急步跑。或在鳥類身上，你可以隨興切換一隻小鳥，在低電流時，走路，在高電流刺激時，揮動翅膀。而這告訴我們，脊髓是個非常複雜精密的肢體行動控制器。 於是我們更仔細的研究蜥蜴的肢體行動，其我們有一部很好的X光錄影機，是由德國 Jena 大學的 Martin Fischer 教授所提供。感謝有這部神奇的機器，把所有的骨骼行動都仔細的紀錄下來。這就是我們在做的事。基本上，我們找出了對我們來說重要的骨骼，並且收集它們的3D動作。我們所做的就是收集整個骨骼的動作資料庫，從水上到陸上，實際地去收集一隻動物所有的移動行為資料庫。而我們機械設計學家的工作就是，將這些資料複製到我們的機械人。所以我們做了全方位的優化程序來找出正確的結構、在哪裡放置馬達、如何把它們連接一起，盡可能地重製出這些動作等等。機械蠑螈就是這樣成型的。 讓我們來看看它跟真正的動物有多近似。你現在看到的是，真正的動物和機械蠑螈在行走時直接對比的影片。你可以看到幾乎是一比一的比例，重演着走路的步態。如果你倒退或慢動作，你可以看得更清楚。更棒的是，我們可以游泳。我們甚至為機械蠑螈穿上了潛水衣— （笑聲） 然後我們可以到水裡，開始重製游泳的泳態。我們對於此很高興，因為這個真的很難。互動的物理現象相當複雜。我們的機械蠑螈要比小動物大很多，所以我們得找出稱之為「等比例動態」的頻率，來確定我們也得到了一樣的互動物理現象。你可以看到，最後我們可以非常接近地運動，所以我們對此非常非常的高興。現在我們來看看脊髓。我們跟 Jean-Marie Cabelguen 一起模擬了脊髓的迴路。有趣的是，蜥蜴保持了最原始的迴路，非常相近於我們找到的七鰓鰻，這個像鰻魚的原始魚類，看起來像是在進化期間，有新的神經振動器會被加進來去控制肢體來帶動腿的行動。我們知道這些神經振動器在哪裡，但我們要做的是，計算出數學模式，看看怎樣把他們配對起來，來讓這兩種非常不同的動作可以自由轉換。我們就在機械蠑螈的電板上測試。 而它看起來就像是這樣。這裡你們看到的是，上一代版本的機械蠑螈，完全由我們輸入在電路板上的脊髓模組程式所控制。我們唯一做的是，透過遥控器，向機械人發出兩組下行性調控訊號，而這通常源自於腦部的上半部分。有趣的是，通過這些訊號我們可以完全控制速度、前進、步、泳態。比方說，當我們透過低電流作出刺激時，我們得到的是行走的狀態，來到某種程度，如果我們加強了刺激 ，它會迅速地轉化為游泳的狀態。最後，我們也可輕鬆的轉向主要在脊髓左右兩邊，在其中的一邊加以刺激就可以了。我覺得這真是漂亮自然界先天的分配了控制權把很多責任交付予脊髓，所以大腦的上半部分不需要再煩惱每一條肌肉。大腦只負擔高層次的調節，協調各肌肉的任務，就交付予脊髓了。 現在我們來看看貓的行動和生物力學的重要性。這是另一個項目，我們研究貓的生物力學，而我們想知道形態學對於肢體活動的幫助。我們得出了三個性質的標準，基本上，就是肢體內的性質。首先就是貓的肢體，大概類似導電弓架的結構。導電弓架是一個機電的結構永恆的保持着上部份和下部份的平行。其實就是一個簡單的幾何系統，協調着各部位的內部移動。貓兒肢體的第二個性質是非常輕量。大部份的肌肉集中在驅體內，這是很棒的點子，因為這樣肢體不會有低度的惰性反而能夠迅速的活動。最後很重要的性質是，貓的肢體彈力很強，有利於處理好衝擊力和震盪力。我們也是如此設計小獵豹的。 現在有請小獵豹到台上來。 這位是 Peter Eckert，他用這部機械人作他的博士學位研究，你可以看到，這是一隻可愛的小機械。它看起來有點像是玩具，但其實卻是個科研工具，用來查證貓兒四腿的特質。你可以看到，它非常柔韌，非常輕量，同時也非常的彈性，所以你可以很輕鬆的把它壓下而絲毫不損。實際上，它只會彈跳。這個彈力的性質也非常重要。你同時也可以看到一些其他特質，就是導電弓架作為腳部的三個部份。 有趣的是，這很有動態，純粹來自開放式的迴路，意思就是沒有探測器，也沒有複雜的回饋迴路。那是很有趣的，因為那意味著，單靠機械模式, 已能把這快速的步態穩定下來，所以只需要有很好的機械性，基本上已能夠簡化肢體的活動。在某程度上, 我們甚至可以對肢體行動，作出一些干預，就正如你將看到的影像一樣，比方說我們可以做一些運動，讓機械人下樓梯，而且機械人不會跌倒，那其實讓我們很訝異。這是輕微的干擾。我預期機械會立刻翻倒，因為沒有探測器，也沒有迅速回饋的迴路。但不，單靠機械模式已能把這步態穩定下來，而機械人並沒有翻倒。顯而易見，如果你跨大了步伐，再加上你遇到了障礙物，你就會需要完整的控制迴路，還要所有的反射動作及每樣東西。這裡重要的是，只是輕微的干擾，機械性能就正確了。我相信這是很重要的訊息，從生物力學及機械學以至腦神經科學，不要低估身體其實在某種程度，已經幫助了肢體行動。 現在，這個跟人類肢體活動有甚麼關係呢？非常明顯，人類的肢體活動，遠遠比貓和蜥蜴的複雜，但同時間，人類的神經系統卻又和其他的脊椎動物非常類近。尤其是脊髓，同樣也是人類肢體行動的關鍵控制器。所以，這也是為什麼當脊髓有損害時，會帶來很嚴重的後果。那個人可能會變成下半身癱瘓或四肢癱瘓。這是因為大腦失去了與脊髓的溝通。尤其是大腦失去了啟動和協調肢體活動作用的下行性調控訊號時。所以神經義肢的一個很大的目標就是可以重啟這個溝通，借助電子或化學的刺激。世界上有好幾個隊伍正在進行這樣的項目，尤其是 EPFL 的隊伍。和我一起合作的同事Grégoire Courtine 和 Silvestro Micera 。 要恰當地做好這事情，務必要明白脊髓如何運作，它怎樣和身體互動，而大腦又怎樣和脊髓溝通。今天我向各位展示的機械和模型希望就是在這些非常重要的目標上可以做出貢獻。 謝謝。 (掌聲) Bruno Giussani: 奧克, 我曾經在你的實驗室裡，看過其他的機械人，做一些例如在污染環境中游泳的事情，並在游泳期間測量污染程度。但這一個，你在演講時表示，這只是一個子項目，負責搜索和救援， 它在鼻子上也安裝了照相機。奧克．捷思皮爾：對的。所以這個機械人—我們有一些是分拆開來的項目我們希望主要用作搜索和救援的調察，所以這位機械人現正看着你。而遠大的夢想就是，一旦你遭遇到困難例如倒塌的建築物，或是被淹沒的建築物，這樣的情況，對救援隊、甚至救援狗而言都是非常危險的，為什麼不用可以四處爬行、游泳和行走的機械人取替，並加上照相機來協助調察和找出生還者， 甚至有可能與生還者建立溝通。 BG: 當然，假設生還者沒有被它的外型嚇到。AI: 對，我們大概也需要把它的外型改良一下，不然生還者可能會心臟病發而死亡，僅是擔心它會把你吃掉。把它的外型改良一下，同時令它更耐用， 我深信這能夠成為很好的工具。非常感謝。謝謝你和你的團隊。
