Talk	en	zh-tw
avi_reichental_what_s_next_in_3d_printing	My grandfather was a cobbler. Back in the day, he made custom-made shoes. I never got to meet him. He perished in the Holocaust. But I did inherit his love for making, except that it doesn't exist that much anymore. You see, while the Industrial Revolution did a great deal to improve humanity, it eradicated the very skill that my grandfather loved, and it atrophied craftsmanship as we know it. But all of that is about to change with 3D printing, and it all started with this, the very first part that was ever printed. It's a little older than TED. It was printed in 1983 by Chuck Hull, who invented 3D printing. But the thing that I want to talk to you about today, the big idea that I want to discuss with you, is not that 3D printing is going to catapult us into the future, but rather that it's actually going to connect us with our heritage, and it's going to usher in a new era of localized, distributed manufacturing that is actually based on digital fabrication. So think about useful things. You all know your shoe size. How many of you know the size of the bridge of your nose or the distance between your temples? Anybody? Wouldn't it be awesome if you could, for the first time, get eyewear that actually fits you perfectly and doesn't require any hinge assembly, so chances are, the hinges are not going to break? But the implications of 3D printing go well beyond the tips of our noses. When I met Amanda for the first time, she could already stand up and walk a little bit even though she was paralyzed from the waist down, but she complained to me that her suit was uncomfortable. It was a beautiful robotic suit made by Ekso Bionics, but it wasn't inspired by her body. It wasn't made to measure. So she challenged me to make her something that was a little bit more feminine, a little bit more elegant, and lightweight, and like good tailors, we thought that we would measure her digitally. And we did. We built her an amazing suit. The incredible part about what I learned from Amanda is a lot of us are looking at 3D printing and we say to ourselves, it's going to replace traditional methods. Amanda looked at it and she said, it's an opportunity for me to reclaim my symmetry and to embrace my authenticity. And you know what? She's not standing still. She now wants to walk in high heels. It doesn't stop there. 3D printing is changing personalized medical devices as we know them, from new, beautiful, conformal, ventilated scoliosis braces to millions of dental restorations and to beautiful bracings for amputees, another opportunity to emotionally reconnect with your symmetry. And as we sit here today, you can go wireless on your braces with clear aligners, or your dental restorations. Millions of in-the-ear hearing aids are already 3D printed today. Millions of people are served today from these devices. What about full knee replacements, from your data, made to measure, where all of the tools and guides are 3D printed? G.E. is using 3D printing to make the next generation LEAP engine that will save fuel to the tune of about 15 percent and cost for an airline of about 14 million dollars. Good for G.E., right? And their customers and the environment. But, you know, the even better news is that this technology is no longer reserved for deep-pocketed corporations. Planetary Resources, a startup for space explorations is going to put out its first  space probe later this year. It was a fraction of a NASA spaceship, it costs a fraction of its cost, and it's made with less than a dozen moving parts, and it's going to be out in space later this year. Google is taking on this very audacious project of making the block phone, the Ara. It's only possible because of the development of high-speed 3D printing that for the first time will make functional, usable modules that will go into it. A real moonshot, powered by 3D printing. How about food? What if we could, for the first time, make incredible delectables like this beautiful TED Teddy here, that are edible? What if we could completely change the experience, like you see with that absinthe serving that is completely 3D printed? And what if we could begin to put ingredients and colors and flavors in every taste, which means not only delicious foods but the promise of personalized nutrition around the corner? And that gets me to one of the biggest deals about 3D printing. With 3D printing, complexity is free. The printer doesn't care if it makes the most rudimentary shape or the most complex shape, and that is completely turning design and manufacturing on its head as we know it. Many people think that 3D printing will be the end of manufacturing as we know it. I think that it's the opportunity to put tomorrow's technology in the hands of youngsters that will create endless abundance of job opportunities, and with that, everybody can become an expert maker and an expert manufacturer. That will take new tools. Not everybody knows how to use CAD, so we're developing haptics, perceptual devices that will allow you to touch and feel your designs as if you play with digital clay. When you do things like that, and we also developed things that take physical photographs that are instantly printable, it will make it easier to create content, but with all of the unimagined, we will also have the unintended, like democratized counterfeiting and ubiquitous illegal possession. So many people ask me, will we have a 3D printer in every home? I think it's the wrong question to ask. The right question to ask is, how will 3D printing change my life? Or, in other words, what room in my house will 3D printing fit in? So everything that you see here has been 3D printed, including these shoes at the Amsterdam fashion show. Now, these are not my grandfather's shoes. These are shoes that represent the continuation of his passion for hyper-local manufacturing. My grandfather didn't get to see Nike printing cleats for the recent Super Bowl, and my father didn't get to see me standing in my hybridized 3D printed shoes. He passed away three years ago. But Chuck Hull, the man that invented it all, is right here in the house today, and thanks to him, I can say, thanks to his invention, I can say that I am a cobbler too, and by standing in these shoes I am honoring my past while manufacturing the future. Thank you. (Applause)	我祖父是一名鞋匠。他當時幫人做訂製鞋。我出生前他就過世了，死於「猶太大屠殺」。但我還是遺傳到他對「製造」的喜愛，只是現在沒什麼「人」在做東西了。「工業革命」改變了人類社會，我祖父熱愛的工藝不被傳承，我們熟知的技藝逐漸式微。 而「3D 列印」即將改變一切。就從這個...史上第一顆被列印出的零件。它比 TED 再早一些出現，是 1983 年由 3D 列印的始祖查克‧赫爾所列印。但我今天要跟大家說、要跟大家分享的，不是 3D 列印會怎麼改變未來，而是它怎麼連結過去經驗，帶我們進入以「本土化」、「分散式生產」為主的「數位產出」新紀元。 想想看，身邊的事物。比如說你穿幾號鞋、或是有誰知道自己鼻樑多寬？或是你的額頭有多寬？有誰知道嗎？想像一下有多酷，如果能做出一副眼鏡，完美符合你的尺寸，而且不需要任何絞鍊組裝，就不用擔心鏡架斷掉。但 3D 列印可不只有這麼簡單。 我第一次見到亞曼達的時候，她已經可以站或稍微走一點路，儘管她下半身癱瘓。她跟我抱怨輔助衣不好穿。那是 Ekso Bionics 公司出產的機械裝，但那不是量身打造的，所以尺寸不太合。她要求我幫她做一套新的：更女性化一點、更優雅一些、而且更輕。所以就像訂做衣服一樣，我們先用數位儀器幫她量尺寸。然後做出一套很棒的輔助衣。 這次經驗最重要的是，我從亞曼達身上學到，很多人覺得 3D 列印和傳統技術是互相衝突的。亞曼達卻覺得，這是個很好的機會，讓我能找到新科技與傳統的平衡，並發揮祖父遺傳給我的創造天賦。而且她還不滿足，開始想穿高跟鞋走路。 還不只這樣，3D 列印也將改變個人醫療器材的樣貌。從這套全新的、兼具美感與合身透氣的背架，到無數的補牙、假牙材料，以及截肢者術後用的漂亮的義肢護具。這些情感上面再度擁有「完整」身軀的機會。再舉更切身的例子，市面上已經有無線的隱形牙套和隱形補假牙材料。無數的助聽器都是 3D 列印，天天有無數的人因此受惠。還有人工膝關節手術，根據每個人測出的數據，由 3D 列印器材輔助導引。奇異公司將會用 3D 列印製造下一代的 Leap 引擎。可望減少15% 的油量消耗，為航空公司省下 1400 萬美元。聽起來不錯吧？對乘客和環境也好。但還有一個更好的消息，這項技術不再專屬於有大把鈔票的企業財團。一家新創的「行星資源公司」，主要做太空探索。將在今年發射第一架太空探測器。無論在體積和成本上，和 NASA 的相比是小巫見大巫，少用了十幾個零件，將在今年升空。Google 正在進行一個大膽的計畫：「拼裝手機 Ara」。這個計畫，因為「快速 3D列印」的發展成為可能。開始能做出有功能的、可拼裝零組件。由 3D 列印成就的一個「登月計畫」。 那食物呢？想像一下我們能夠製造出色香味俱全的食物，就像這隻 TED 泰迪熊，它真的可以吃。或著我們能完全改變印象中的苦艾酒滴酒器，變成 3D 列印的全新樣貌。然後也許我們每一口，都嚐得到食材的顏色和氣味；不只是在享受美味，同時也吃得到量身打造的必需營養。 這讓我想到了 3D 列印最大的特點：再也沒有「很難做」這回事。印表機根本不管你要印的是結構最簡陋，還是最複雜的產品。這完全顛覆了我們對「設計」和「製造」的理解。很多人覺得 3D 列印會終結所謂的製造業。我反而覺得這是一個轉機，讓年輕人發展新技術，並創造大量的就業機會。而且，所有人都可以藉此變成專業的工匠和製造商。但這需要新的工具。不是每個人都會用電腦繪圖軟體，所以我們在研發「觸控式感應儀」，讓你去觸摸、感受你的設計，就像是數位化的黏土。而另一方面呢，還有這個類似拍立得的「3D 影印機」。可以方便製造出照到的東西。雖然很神奇又便利，我們也有特殊設計的「民主化」反盜版程式，防止非法剽竊。 很多人會問：「以後家家戶戶都會有 3D 印表機嗎？」我覺得不是這麼說，該問的是：「3D 列印會怎麼改變我們的生活？」或說：「家中哪裡可以放 3D 列印的產品？」 你現在看到的這些，都是用 3D 列印做的。包括這雙，在「阿姆斯特丹時裝周」展過的鞋。這和我祖父做的鞋大不相同，這雙鞋代表的是他對「超地方化」製鞋業熱情的延續。我祖父沒有機會看到，3D 列印的 Nike 美式足球鞋，在剛結束的超級盃大展身手。我父親也沒機會看到，我穿這雙 3D 列印的多功能鞋。他三年前過世了。但讓這一切美夢成真的查克‧赫爾今天就坐在台下。多虧有他、歸功於他的發明，我可以大聲說：「我也是鞋匠。」穿著這雙鞋，我一面向前人致敬，同時編織未來。 謝謝！（掌聲）
