Talk	en	zh-tw
award_winning_teen_age_science_in_action	"Lauren Hodge: If you were going to a restaurant and wanted a healthier option, which would you choose, grilled or fried chicken? Now most people would answer grilled, and it's true that grilled chicken does contain less fat and fewer calories. However, grilled chicken poses a hidden danger. The hidden danger is heterocyclic amines — specifically phenomethylimidazopyridine, or PhIP — (laughter) which is the immunogenic or carcinogenic compound. A carcinogen is any substance or agent that causes abnormal growth of cells, which can also cause them to metastasize or spread. They are also organic compounds in which one or more of the hydrogens in ammonia is replaced with a more complex group. Studies show that antioxidants are known to decrease these heterocyclic amines. However, no studies exist yet that show how or why. These here are five different organizations that classify carcinogens. And as you can see, none of the organizations consider the compounds to be safe, which justifies the need to decrease them in our diet. Now you might wonder how a 13 year-old girl could come up with this idea. And I was led to it through a series of events. I first learned about it through a lawsuit I read about in my doctor's office — (Laughter) which was between the Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine and seven different fast food restaurants. They weren't sued because there was carcinogens in the chicken, but they were sued because of California's Proposition 65, which stated that if there's anything dangerous in the products then the companies had to give a clear warning. So I was very surprised about this. And I was wondering why nobody knew more about this dangerous grilled chicken, which doesn't seem very harmful. But then one night, my mom was cooking grilled chicken for dinner, and I noticed that the edges of the chicken, which had been marinated in lemon juice, turned white. And later in biology class, I learned that it's due to a process called denaturing, which is where the proteins will change shape and lose their ability to chemically function. So I combined these two ideas and I formulated a hypothesis, saying that, could possibly the carcinogens be decreased due to a marinade and could it be due to the differences in PH? So my idea was born, and I had the project set up and a hypothesis, so what was my next step? Well obviously I had to find a lab to work at because I didn't have the equipment in my school. I thought this would be easy, but I emailed about 200 different people within a five-hour radius of where I lived, and I got one positive response that said that they could work with me. Most of the others either never responded back, said they didn't have the time or didn't have the equipment and couldn't help me. So it was a big commitment to drive to the lab to work multiple times. However, it was a great opportunity to work in a real lab — so I could finally start my project. The first stage was completed at home, which consisted of marinating the chicken, grilling the chicken, amassing it and preparing it to be transported to the lab. The second stage was completed at the Penn State University main campus lab, which is where I extracted the chemicals, changed the PH so I could run it through the equipment and separated the compounds I needed from the rest of the chicken. The final stages, when I ran the samples through a high-pressure liquid chromatography mass spectrometer, which separated the compounds and analyzed the chemicals and told me exactly how much carcinogens I had in my chicken. So when I went through the data, I had very surprising results, because I found that four out of the five marinating ingredients actually inhibited the carcinogen formation. When compared with the unmarinated chicken, which is what I used as my control, I found that lemon juice worked by far the best, which decreased the carcinogens by about 98 percent. The saltwater marinade and the brown sugar marinade also worked very well, decreasing the carcinogens by about 60 percent. Olive oil slightly decreased the PhIP formation, but it was nearly negligible. And the soy sauce results were inconclusive because of the large data range, but it seems like soy sauce actually increased the potential carcinogens. Another important factor that I didn't take into account initially was the time cooked. And I found that if you increase the time cooked, the amount of carcinogens rapidly increases. So the best way to marinate chicken, based on this, is to, not under-cook, but definitely don't over-cook and char the chicken, and marinate in either lemon juice, brown sugar or saltwater. (Applause) Based on these findings, I have a question for you. Would you be willing to make a simple change in your diet that could potentially save your life? Now I'm not saying that if you eat grilled chicken that's not marinated, you're definitely going to catch cancer and die. However, anything you can do to decrease the risk of potential carcinogens can definitely increase the quality of lifestyle. Is it worth it to you? How will you cook your chicken now? (Applause) Shree Bose: Hi everyone. I'm Shree Bose. I was the 17-18 year-old age category winner and then the grand prize winner. And I want all of you to imagine a little girl holding a dead blue spinach plant. And she's standing in front of you and she's explaining to you that little kids will eat their vegetables if they're different colors. Sounds ridiculous, right. But that was me years ago. And that was my first science fair project. It got a bit more complicated from there. My older brother Panaki Bose spent hours of his time explaining atoms to me when I barely understood basic algebra. My parents suffered through many more of my science fair projects, including a remote controlled garbage can. (Laughter) And then came the summer after my freshman year, when my grandfather passed away due to cancer. And I remember watching my family go through that and thinking that I never wanted another family to feel that kind of loss. So, armed with all the wisdom of freshman year biology, I decided I wanted to do cancer research at 15. Good plan. So I started emailing all of these professors in my area asking to work under their supervision in a lab. Got rejected by all except one. And then went on, my next summer, to work under Dr. Basu at the UNT Health Center at Fort Worth, Texas. And that is where the research began. So ovarian cancer is one of those cancers that most people don't know about, or at least don't pay that much attention to. But yet, it's the fifth leading cause of cancer deaths among women in the United States. In fact, one in 70 women will be diagnosed with ovarian cancer. One in 100 will die from it. Chemotherapy, one of the most effective ways used to treat cancer today, involves giving patients really high doses of chemicals to try and kill off cancer cells. Cisplatin is a relatively common ovarian cancer chemotherapy drug — a relatively simple molecule made in the lab that messes with the DNA of cancer cells and causes them to kill themselves. Sounds great, right? But here's the problem: sometimes patients become resistant to the drug, and then years after they've been declared to be cancer free, they come back. And this time, they no longer respond to the drug. It's a huge problem. In fact, it's one of the biggest problems with chemotherapy today. So we wanted to figure out how these ovarian cancer cells are becoming resistant to this drug called Cisplatin. And we wanted to figure this out, because if we could figure that out, then we might be able to prevent that resistance from ever happening. So that's what we set out to do. And we thought it had something to do with this protein called AMP kinase, an energy protein. So we ran all of these tests blocking the protein, and we saw this huge shift. I mean, on the slide, you can see that on our sensitive side, these cells that are responding to the drug, when we start blocking the protein, the number of dying cells — those colored dots — they're going down. But then on this side, with the same treatment, they're going up — interesting. But those are dots on a screen for you; what exactly does that mean? Well basically that means that this protein is changing from the sensitive cell to the resistant cell. And in fact, it might be changing the cells themselves to make the cells resistant. And that's huge. In fact, it means that if a patient comes in and they're resistant to this drug, then if we give them a chemical to block this protein, then we can treat them again with the same drug. And that's huge for chemotherapy effectiveness — possibly for many different types of cancer. So that was my work, and it was my way of reimagining the future for future research, with figuring out exactly what this protein does, but also for the future of chemotherapy effectiveness — so maybe all grandfathers with cancer have a little bit more time to spend with their grandchildren. But my work wasn't just about the research. It was about finding my passion. That's why being the grand prize winner of the Google Global Science Fair — cute picture, right — it was so exciting to me and it was such an amazing honor. And ever since then, I've gotten to do some pretty cool stuff — from getting to meet the president to getting to be on this stage to talk to all of you guys. But like I said, my journey wasn't just about the research, it was about finding my passion, and it was about making my own opportunities when I didn't even know what I was doing. It was about inspiration and determination and never giving up on my interest for science and learning and growing. After all, my story begins with a dried, withered spinach plant and it's only getting better from there. Thank you. (Applause) Naomi Shah: Hi everyone. I'm Naomi Shah, and today I'll be talking to you about my research involving indoor air quality and asthmatic patients. 1.6 million deaths worldwide. One death every 20 seconds. People spend over 90 percent of their lives indoors. And the economic burden of asthma exceeds that of HIV and tuberculosis combined. Now these statistics had a huge impact on me, but what really sparked my interest in my research was watching both my dad and my brother suffer from chronic allergies year-round. It confused me; why did these allergy symptoms persist well past the pollen season? With this question in mind, I started researching, and I soon found that indoor air pollutants were the culprit. As soon as I realized this, I investigated the underlying relationship between four prevalent air pollutants and their affect on the lung health of asthmatic patients. At first, I just wanted to figure out which of these four pollutants have the largest negative health impact on the lung health of asthmatic patients. But soon after, I developed a novel mathematical model that essentially quantifies the effect of these environmental pollutants on the lung health of asthmatic patients. And it surprises me that no model currently exists that quantifies the effect of environmental factors on human lung health, because that relationship seems so important. So with that in mind, I started researching more, I started investigating more, and I became very passionate. Because I realized that if we could find a way to target remediation, we could also find a way to treat asthmatic patients more effectively. For example, volatile organic compounds are chemical pollutants that are found in our schools, homes and workplaces. They're everywhere. These chemical pollutants are currently not a criteria air pollutant, as defined by the U.S. Clean Air Act. Which is surprising to me, because these chemical pollutants, through my research, I show that they had a very large negative impact on the lung health of asthmatic patients and thus should be regulated. So today I want to show you my interactive software model that I created. I'm going to show it to you on my laptop. And I have a volunteer subject in the audience today, Julie. And all of Julie's data has been pre-entered into my interactive software model. And this can be used by anyone. So I want you to imagine that you're in Julie's shoes, or someone who's really close to you who suffers from asthma or another lung disorder. So Julie's going to her doctor's office to get treated for her asthma. And the doctor has her sit down, and he takes her peak expiratory flow rate — which is essentially her exhalation rate, or the amount of air that she can breathe out in one breath. So that peak expiratory flow rate, I've entered it up into the interactive software model. I've also entered in her age, her gender and her height. I've assumed that she lives in an average household with average air pollutant levels. So any user can come in here and click on ""lung function report"" and it'll take them to this report that I created. And this report really drives home the crux of my research. So what it shows — if you want to focus on that top graph in the right-hand corner — it shows Julie's actual peak expiratory flow rate in the yellow bar. This is the measurement that she took in her doctor's office. In the blue bar at the bottom of the graph, it shows what her peak expiratory flow rate, what her exhalation rate or lung health, should be based on her age, gender and height. So the doctor sees this difference between the yellow bar and the blue bar, and he says, ""Wow, we need to give her steroids, medication and inhalers."" But I want everyone here to reimagine a world where instead of prescribing steroids, inhalers and medication, the doctor turns to Julie and says, ""Why don't you go home and clean out your air filters. Clean out the air ducts in your home, in your workplace, in your school. Stop the use of incense and candles. And if you're remodeling your house, take out all the carpeting and put in hardwood flooring."" Because these solutions are natural, these solutions are sustainable, and these solutions are long-term investments — long-term investments that we're making for our generation and for future generations. Because these environmental solutions that Julie can make in her home, her workplace and her school are impacting everyone that lives around her. So I'm very passionate about this research and I really want to continue it and expand it to more disorders besides asthma, more respiratory disorders, as well as more pollutants. But before I end my talk today, I want to leave you with one saying. And that saying is that genetics loads the gun, but the environment pulls the trigger. And that made a huge impact on me when I was doing this research. Because what I feel, is a lot of us think that the environment is at a macro level, that we can't do anything to change our air quality or to change the climate or anything. But if each one of us takes initiative in our own home, in our own school and in our own workplace, we can make a huge difference in air quality. Because remember, we spend 90 percent of our lives indoors. And air quality and air pollutants have a huge impact on the lung health of asthmatic patients, anyone with a respiratory disorder and really all of us in general. So I want you to reimagine a world with better air quality, better quality of life and better quality of living for everyone including our future generations. Thank you. (Applause) Lisa Ling: Right. Can I have Shree and Lauren come up really quickly? Your Google Science Fair champions. Your winners. (Applause)"	Lauren Hodge:如果你去一家餐廳然要選一樣比較健康的食物，你會選烤雞還是炸雞呢？大部份人會選擇烤雞，沒錯烤雞的脂肪和熱量都較少。但是，烤雞也有一些隱藏的危險。這個隱藏的危險叫作雜環胺—更明確地說是phenomethylimidazopyridine，簡稱為PhIP（笑聲）是一種造成免疫病變及癌症產生的化合物。 致癌物是任何可造成細胞異常生長的的物質。這會造成轉移也就是到身體其他部位。它們也是有機化合物，其中氨官能基中一個或多個氫被其他更複雜的東西取代。研究顯示抗氧化物會減少這些雜環胺的形成。但是目前沒有任何研究顯示抗氧化物如何達成這個功效。這邊是五個不同組織對致癌物的分類。你們可以看到，沒有任何組織把這些致癌物歸為安全，也就是為什麼我們在日常飲食中要減少其攝取量。 你們可能會問一個13歲女生怎麼會有這樣的想法呢？我是被一系列事情引導到這裡的。我最早是從醫生辦公室的一件官司看到這個消息的。（笑聲）這是一個醫生藥物責任委員會(Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine)與七家速食餐廳間的官司。他們並不是因為雞裡有致癌物被告，而是因為加州第六十五號提案說如果產品中有任何危險物，公司必須給一個明確的警告。 我感到非常驚訝。然後我想為什麼沒有人知道烤雞裡面有這些感覺起來不大有害的危險物質。然後有一天，我媽媽正在做烤雞當晚餐，我發現烤雞邊緣就是有被檸檬汁醃製過的部份變白色了。後來在生物課上，我學到這叫做蛋白質變性，也就是說蛋白質的形狀改變及失去了它們原本的化學性質。所以我把這兩種想法結合起來成立了一個假設，就是說致癌物可不可能因為醃製而減少呢？是不是因為PH值的差異呢？ 所以我有了想法、有了計畫、也有了假設，那接下來呢？很顯然的我需要找一個實驗室，因為我的學校沒有這樣的儀器。我以為找實驗室不會很難，但我寄電子郵件給離我住的地方距離五小時內的約200個人，而我僅收到一個願意讓我去做實驗的回應。其他的大部份沒有回應、說他們沒有時間、或是他們沒有那樣的儀器所以不能幫我。這是個很大的投入因為我們需要開很多次車去實驗室做實驗。但是，能夠在真正的實驗室做事是個很棒的機會。我終於可以開始做我的研究。 第一部份是在家裡做的。這部份包含醃製雞肉、烤雞肉、將雞肉放在一起然後準備將雞肉帶到實驗室去。第二部份是在賓州州立大學主校區的實驗室完成的。這部份包含萃取化學物質、改變PH質讓我可以使用儀器來從雞肉中分離我需要的化合物。最後一部份，我將樣本拿去跑高壓液態層析質譜儀，這會將化合物分離並分析，進而告訴我我的雞肉裡面有多少致癌物。 所以當我在整理這些資料時，我得到非常有趣的結果，因為我發現五種醃製材料中有四種會抑制致癌物產生。當與對照組也就是未醃製雞肉比較時，我發現檸檬汁比其它好很多，它可以將致癌物減少百分之98。鹽水和黑糖醃製法也很不錯，可以將致癌物減少百分之60。橄欖油會稍微減少PhIP產生，但這幾乎可以忽略。而醬油醃製沒有得到很明顯的結論，因為我們得到的數據範圍太廣了。但似乎醬油會增加致癌物的產生。 另外一個我沒有預期的重要因素是烹飪時間。我發現如果你增加烹飪時間，致癌物含量會快速上升。所以根據這些數據，最好的醃製雞肉方式是當然不要沒煮熟，但絕對不要讓雞肉燒焦，及使用檸檬汁、黑糖或鹽水醃製。 （掌聲） 根據這些發現，我有一個問題想要問你們。你們會願意在你們日常飲食中做一個可能救你一命的簡單改變嗎？我不是說如果你的烤雞沒有醃製過你就一定會得到癌症病死亡。但是任何可以減少致癌物產生的事情都有可能使你的生活更加美好。 這對你們來說值得嗎？你以後會如何烹調你的雞肉呢？ （掌聲） Shree Bose：大家好。我是Shree Bose。我是這次17-18歲組得獎者也是大獎得獎者。我想要你們大家想像一個小女孩拿著一個死掉的藍色菠菜株。她站在你們面前並試著解釋如果青菜有很多不同的顏色，小朋友們可能會願意吃青菜。聽起來很怪對吧？但那就是我好幾年前做的事。那是我的第一個科展計畫。在那之後越來越複雜。我哥哥Panaki Bose花了很多時間在我還只會簡單代數時跟我解釋原子。我的父母親接下來受我一推科展計畫折磨，這其中包含了一個遙控垃圾桶。 （笑聲） 然後九年級後的那年暑假，我祖父因為癌症過世。我記得看著我的家人接受這個事實然後想著我不想要有另外一個家庭要感受到這樣的離別。所以，我帶著九年級生物的知識，在十五歲的那年決定要做癌症研究。很棒的計畫。所以我開始寄信給我周圍的教授們，問他們我是否可以在他們實驗室工作。除了一個以外都拒絕我了。所以在接下來的暑假，我到位於德州沃斯堡的UNT Health Center，Basu博士底下工作。而那就是研究開始的地方。 卵巢癌是一種大家比較不熟知的癌症，至少大家比較不會注意到這種癌症。但他卻高居美國女人癌症死因的第五位。事實上，每70個女人中會有一個被發現有卵巢癌。每一百個之中有一個會因此死亡。化療是現今治療癌症最有效的方式，這包含給病患大量的化學藥劑來試圖殺死癌症細胞。 順鉑是一個常用來治療卵巢癌的一種化學藥物。他是一種在實驗室生產的簡單分子可以影響癌症細胞中的去氧核糖核酸（DNA）並使細胞自殺。聽起來很不錯對吧？但有一個問題：有時候病人會有抗藥性，然後治癒後幾年又發病了。而這次他們不再對這個藥物有反應。這是很大的問題。事實上，這是現今化療最大的問題。 所以我們想要知道卵巢癌症細胞如何對順鉑產生抗藥性。我們想要找到原因，因為如果我們可以找到原因，我們有可能可以防止抗藥性產生。所以這就是我們想要做的。我們猜想這可能跟一個叫作AMP kinase的能量蛋白有關。所以我們做了一系列阻擋這個蛋白的實驗，然後我們看到這個大改變。我的意思是，在這個投影片，你們可以看到敏感的這邊，這是對藥物有反應的細胞，當我們開始阻擋這個蛋白的時候，垂死細胞數目—有顏色的點點—正在減少。但在另外一邊，同一種療法，很有趣的，他們卻在增加。 但那些對你們來說只是點點，他們到底是什麼意思呢？基本上這個的意思是蛋白質正在從敏感細胞轉變成抗藥細胞。而事實上，這有可能將細胞轉變成抗藥細胞。而這很重要。事實上，這表示如果有一個病人是對這個藥物有抗藥性，而且如果我們給他們一個可以阻擋這個蛋白的藥物，那我們就可以用同一種藥為他們治療。而這對化療功效是非常重要的，很有可能對很多不同種癌症都很有用。所以那是我做的東西，且這是我對未來研究的看法，我認為如果能找出這個蛋白質的功能，這也可以改變未來的化療功效。所以以後染上癌症的祖父們可以有更多的時間跟他們的孫子們相處。 但我的工作並不只是研究。這還包含了尋找我的熱情。這是身為谷哥全球科展頭獎得主很可愛的照片吧！這太令人興奮了、超棒的榮耀。從那時後開始，我有機會做一些很酷的事，像是跟總統見面、站在這個舞台上跟你們大家講話。 就像我說的，我的旅程不只是做研究，是找到我的熱情、創造自己的機會，尤其是當我自己都不是很確定自己在做什麼的時候。這也是靈感和意志力和永遠不放棄自己對科學、學習、成長的興趣。畢竟，我的故事是從一株垂死的菠菜開始的，而這個故事越來越棒。 謝謝。 （掌聲） Naomi Shah:哈囉，大家好。我是Naomi Shah，今天我想要談談我在室內空氣品質和氣喘病患這方面的研究。全球160萬條人命。每20秒一條人命。人們超過百分之九十的時間在室內。而氣喘造成的經濟負擔比愛滋病和肺結咳加起來還多。這些數據對我的影響很大，但真正讓我想要做這個研究的原因是看我父親和兄弟常年受過敏所擾。這讓我感到很困惑。為什麼這些過敏反應在花粉季過後很久還存在呢？ 心裡想著這個問題，我開始搜尋。我發現元兇是室內空氣污染。當我一發現這件事，我開始查四種主要空氣污染物和氣喘病人肺部健康間的關係。一開始，我只是想要知道這四種污染物哪一種對氣喘病患的健康負面影響最大。但很快的，我開發了一個新的數學模型可以將環境中污染物對氣喘病患肺部健康影響量化。我很訝異竟然沒有現有的模型可以將環境對人類肺部健康作量化分析，因為這樣的關係似乎是很重要的。 所以腦筋裡這麼想，我開始更深入研究、探索，我開始對這件事感到非常熱情。因為我理解到如果我們可以找到一個整治的方法，我們就可以找到一個更有效治療氣喘病患的方法。舉例來說，易揮發有機化合物是我們在學校、家裡、工作場合常見的化學污染物。污染物無所不在。這些化學污染物目前根據美國清潔空氣法案尚未被列為空氣污染物。這讓我感到很驚訝，因為根據我的研究這些化學污染物對氣喘病患的肺部健康是有非常大的負面影響的，所以應該有所規範。 所以今天我想要給你們看我設計的一個互動軟體模型。我要用我的筆電展示給你們看。然後我在今天的觀眾席裡找到一個自願者茱莉。這邊茱莉的資料已經事先放到這個互動軟體裡了。任何人都可以使用這個軟體。所以我要你們想像自己是茱莉，或是你們身邊任何一個氣喘或肺部健康有問題的人。想像茱莉正要去醫生那裡治療她的氣喘問題。醫生讓她坐下，測量她的呼氣峰流速，換句話說就是她的呼氣速度她一口氣可以呼出的空氣量。 這個呼氣峰流速的數據我把它輸到這個互動軟體裡面。我也輸入了她的年紀、性別和身高。我預設了她住在一個正常的環境，有正常的污染量。所以任何一個使用者可以來這裡然後按「肺部功能報告」，就可以看到這個我設計的報告。而這個報告就是我的研究最重要的部份。 所以如果你們看這個圖表的右上方，這個黃色的長方形告訴我們茱莉的呼氣峰流速。這是她在醫院測量到的數據。圖表下方這個藍色的長方形代表著根據她的年紀、性別和身高所應有的呼氣峰流速也就是她肺部呼出的空氣量。醫生可以看出黃色和藍色的差異，然後說：「哇！我們要給她類固醇、藥物和呼吸器。」 但我想要各位想像一個世界，不是給類固醇、藥物、呼吸器這樣的治療方式，而是醫生轉向茱莉跟她說：「你回家清理你的空氣過濾器。清理你家裡、工作環境、學校中的空氣孔道。不要再用芳香器和蠟燭。然後如果你們家要重新改裝的話，不要再放地毯了，改放木頭地板。」因為這樣的解決方式是自然的、永續的，且這樣的解決方式有長期的投資效果，對我們這一代也為子孫們有幫助的。因位茱莉可以在家裡、工作地、學校所做的這些環境改變是會影響她周遭的所有人的。 所以我對這個研究很有熱情且很想要繼續做下去，希望能夠擴展到氣喘以外的疾病，像是其它氣管疾病和其他污染物。但在我結束之前，我想要跟你們說一句話。而這句話是「基因將子彈裝進槍裡，而環境扣下扣板。」這在我做這個研究的時候對我的影響很大。因為我跟很多人一樣認為環境是巨觀的，也就是說我們沒有辦法感變空氣品質或是天氣之類的東西。 但若我們每一個人都在自己家裡、學校、工作環境做一些改變，那麼我們可以對空氣品質有很大的影響。因為記住，我們花百分之九十的時間在室內。而且空氣品質和空氣污染物對氣喘病患、任何有氣管疾病的人、或是我們之中任何人的肺部健康都有很大的影響。 所以我要你們想像一個對每一個人及子孫們有更好空氣品質、更好人生、及更好生活品質的世界。 謝謝。 （掌聲） Lisa Ling:很好。我可以請Shree和Lauren也一起上來嗎？這是谷哥科展頭獎得獎者。 （掌聲）
