Talk	en	zh-tw
ayah_bdeir_building_blocks_that_blink_beep_and_teach	"This may sound strange, but I'm a big fan of the concrete block. The first concrete blocks were manufactured in 1868 with a very simple idea: modules made of cement of a fixed measurement that fit together. Very quickly concrete blocks became the most-used construction unit in the world. They enabled us to to build things that were larger than us, buildings, bridges, one brick at a time. Essentially concrete blocks had become the building block of our time. Almost a hundred years later in 1947, LEGO came up with this. It was called the Automatic Binding Brick. And in a few short years, LEGO bricks took place in every household. It's estimated that over 400 billion bricks have been produced — or 75 bricks for every person on the planet. You don't have to be an engineer to make beautiful houses, beautiful bridges, beautiful buildings. LEGO made it accessible. LEGO has essentially taken the concrete block, the building block of the world, and made it into the building block of our imagination. Meanwhile the exact same year, at Bell Labs the next revolution was about to be announced, the next building block. The transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static bricks piled on top of each other to a world where everything was interactive. Like the concrete block, the transistor allows you to build much larger, more complex circuits, one brick at a time. But there's a main difference: The transistor was only for experts. I personally don't accept this, that the building block of our time is reserved for experts, so I decided to change that. Eight years ago when I was at the Media Lab, I started exploring this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers. A few years ago I started developing littleBits. Let me show you how they work. LittleBits are electronic modules with each one specific function. They're pre-engineered to be light, sound, motors and sensors. And the best part about it is they snap together with magnets. So you can't put them the wrong way. The bricks are color-coded. Green is output, blue is power, pink is input and orange is wire. So all you need to do is snap a blue to a green and very quickly you can start making larger circuits. You put a blue to a green, you can make light. You can put a knob in between and now you've made a little dimmer. Switch out the knob for a pulse module, which is here, and now you've made a little blinker. Add this buzzer for some extra punch and you've created a noise machine. I'm going to stop that. So beyond simple play, littleBits are actually pretty powerful. Instead of having to program, to wire, to solder, littleBits allow you to program using very simple intuitive gestures. So to make this blink faster or slower, you would just turn this knob and basically make it pulse faster or slower. The idea behind littleBits is that it's a growing library. We want to make every single interaction in the world into a ready-to-use brick. Lights, sounds, solar panels, motors — everything should be accessible. We've been giving littleBits to kids and seeing them play with them. And it's been an incredible experience. The nicest thing is how they start to understand the electronics around them from everyday that they don't learn at schools. For example, how a nightlight works, or why an elevator door stays open, or how an iPod responds to touch. We've also been taking littleBits to design schools. So for example, we've had designers with no experience with electronics whatsoever start to play with littleBits as a material. Here you see, with felt and paper water bottles, we have Geordie making ... (Clanging) (Buzzing) A few weeks ago we took littleBits to RISD and gave them to some designers with no experience in engineering whatsoever — just cardboard, wood and paper — and told them ""Make something."" Here's an example of a project they made, a motion-activated confetti canon ball. (Laughter) But wait, this is actually my favorite project. It's a lobster made of playdough that's afraid of the dark. (Laughter) To these non-engineers, littleBits became another material, electronics became just another material. And we want to make this material accessible to everyone. So littleBits is open-source. You can go on the website, download all the design files, make them yourself. We want to encourage a world of creators, of inventors, of contributors, because this world that we live in, this interactive world, is ours. So go ahead and start inventing. Thank you. (Applause)"	"你們可能會覺得我很奇怪因為我很喜歡水泥磚頭世界上第一塊水泥磚頭製造於1868年只有一個很簡單的概念水泥製造的磚頭有固定的尺寸這樣才能互相契合很快的，水泥磚頭就變成了世界上最常用的建材我們能用它來建造比我們還要巨大的建築樓房、橋梁一磚一瓦的建造我們把水泥磚頭當作建材已經有一段時間了 約一百年後，1947年「樂高LEGO®」生產出這個他們稱為「自動組裝積木」短短幾年後樂高積木成了每個家庭必備的玩具大約估計了一下，樂高生產了超過四千億個積木平均全球每個人擁有75塊積木你不需要是個工程師會建造漂亮的房屋、雄偉的橋樑或其它美麗的建築樂高讓你的想像變為實物樂高活用水泥磚頭的概念將它轉化成激發我們想像力的建材 在同一年貝爾實驗室(Bell Labs)發表了另一個積木的革新電晶體是一個塑膠製的小東西帶領我們進入一個靜止的積木堆疊在一起但積木間卻會相互作用的世界就跟水泥磚頭一樣電晶體也能讓你建造更大、更複雜的迴路 它們最大的差別就是電晶體是專門給專家玩的我不太同意這個說法雖然我們現在的磚頭建材也都只有專家在用所以我想要改變這種現象八年前我在媒體實驗室(Media Lab)我開始著手開發這個計畫：如何把工程師的技術讓藝術家和設計師也能輕易地掌握？ 幾年前我開始研發""littleBits""我給你看它如何運作""littleBits""是電子元件每一小塊都有特定的功能它們被設置成有燈光、聲音、電動和感應功能而它最好玩的部分就是它靠著磁鐵連接在一起所以你不會把它們弄錯方向它們用顏色來區分功能綠色是輸出、藍色是電源、粉紅色是輸入、橘色是電線你只要把藍色和綠色接在一起然後你就可以開始做大一點的迴路藍色跟綠色接在一起它就可以發光你也可以把旋鈕接在中間它就可以調亮度把旋鈕換掉換成脈衝元件在這裡你就可以使燈光閃爍再加上一個聲音元件給它多個功能然後你就做出了一個警報器它好吵 在小小的示範之後""littleBits""其實是很強大的我們不需要會寫程式、接電線或是焊接""littleBits""就能讓你設計程式藉由很簡單的直覺動作讓它閃爍得快一點或慢一點只需要轉一下這個就能達到目的""littleBits""想傳達的想法它就是一個現成的知識庫我們都想讓全世界的互動融合在一塊現成的積木裡燈光、聲音、太陽能板、馬達...等等這些都必須是平易近人的 我們讓""littleBits""進入小孩子的生活讓他們把玩這真的是很難得的經驗最好的部分是他們開始試著去了解每天環繞在他們周圍的電子設備這是在學校學不到的譬如說一個小夜燈是怎麼運作的或是電梯門怎麼維持開啟或是iPod的觸控如何作用我們也把""littleBits""讓設計學校使用舉例來說，我們讓設計師完全沒有電子相關的經驗開始把""littleBits""當成一種工具你看，絨布和紙做的水瓶喬迪做出了... (鈴聲) (叭~叭叭) 幾個禮拜前我們把""littleBits""帶到「羅德島設計學院(RISD)」給了一些設計師一樣沒有工程學相關的經驗給他們一些硬紙板、木板和紙張，讓他們做「東西」舉一個他們做出來的東西「天女散花加農砲」(笑聲)但這真的是我最喜歡的一個用彩色塑泥做的龍蝦牠很怕黑 (笑聲) 對不是工程師的人來說，""littleBits""成了另一種工具電子學也是我們希望這個工具是平易近人的""littleBits""是個共享資源你可以去我們網站下載設計稿並自己動手做我們想要激發一個世界有創作家、發明家和貢獻者因為我們住的這個世界是一個彼此互動的世界我們一起開始發明吧！ 謝謝 (掌聲)"
