Talk	en	zh-tw
aziza_chaouni_how_i_brought_a_river_and_my_city_back_to_life	I would like to share with you today a project that has changed how I approach and practice architecture: the Fez River Rehabilitation Project. My hometown of Fez, Morocco, boasts one of the largest walled medieval cities in the world, called the medina, nestled in a river valley. The entire city is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Since the 1950s, as the population of the medina grew, basic urban infrastructure such as green open spaces and sewage quickly changed and got highly stressed. One of the biggest casualties of the situation was the Fez River, which bisects the medina in its middle and has been considered for many centuries as the city's very soul. In fact, one can witness the presence of the river's extensive water network all throughout the city, in places such as private and public fountains. Unfortunately, because of the pollution of the river, it has been covered little by little by concrete slabs since 1952. This process of erasure was coupled with the destruction of many houses along the river banks to be able to make machineries enter the narrow pedestrian network of the medina. Those urban voids quickly became illegal parking or trash yards. Actually, the state of the river before entering the medina is pretty healthy. Then pollution takes its toll, mainly due to untreated sewage and chemical dumping from crafts such as tanning. At some point, I couldn't bear the desecration of the river, such an important part of my city, and I decided to take action, especially after I heard that the city received a grant to divert sewage water and to treat it. With clean water, suddenly the uncovering of the river became possible, and with luck and actually a lot of pushing, my partner Takako Tajima and I were commissioned by the city to work with a team of engineers to uncover the river. However, we were sneaky, and we proposed more: to convert riverbanks into pedestrian pathways, and then to connect these pathways back to the city fabric, and finally to convert the urban voids along the riverbanks into public spaces that are lacking in the Medina of Fez. I will show you briefly now two of these public spaces. The first one is the Rcif Plaza, which sits actually right on top of the river, which you can see here in dotted lines. This plaza used to be a chaotic transportation hub that actually compromised the urban integrity of the medina, that has the largest pedestrian network in the world. And right beyond the historic bridge that you can see here, right next to the plaza, you can see that the river looked like a river of trash. Instead, what we proposed is to make the plaza entirely pedestrian, to cover it with recycled leather canopies, and to connect it to the banks of the river. The second site of intervention is also an urban void along the river banks, and it used to be an illegal parking, and we proposed to transform it into the first playground in the medina. The playground is constructed using recycled tires and also is coupled with a constructed wetland that not only cleans the water of the river but also retains it when floods occur. As the project progressed and received several design awards, new stakeholders intervened and changed the project goals and design. The only way for us to be able to bring the main goals of the project ahead was for us to do something very unusual that usually architects don't do. It was for us to take our design ego and our sense of authorship and put it in the backseat and to focus mainly on being activists and on trying to coalesce all of the agendas of stakeholders and focus on the main goals of the project: that is, to uncover the river, treat its water, and provide public spaces for all. We were actually very lucky, and many of those goals happened or are in the process of happening. Like, you can see here in the Rcif Plaza. This is how it looked like about six years ago. This is how it looks like today. It's still under construction, but actually it is heavily used by the local population. And finally, this is how the Rcif Plaza will look like when the project is completed. This is the river, covered, used as a trash yard. Then after many years of work, the river with clean water, uncovered. And finally, you can see here the river when the project will be completed. So for sure, the Fez River Rehabilitation will keep on changing and adapting to the sociopolitical landscape of the city, but we strongly believe that by reimagining the role and the agency of the architect, we have set up the core idea of the project into motion; that is, to transform the river from sewage to public space for all, thereby making sure that the city of Fez will remain a living city for its inhabitants rather than a mummified heritage. Thank you very much. (Applause)	今天我想和你分享一個改變我對建築設計方針和實踐的方案：費茲河的修復工程。 我的家鄉，摩洛哥費茲，以世界最大的中世紀城市之一為豪，座落在河谷，稱為舊城區。整個城市為聯合國教科文組織的世界遺產。自 1950 年代起，隨著舊城區的人口成長，基本公共建設例如：公共綠地和污水管快速惡化引起了高度的關注。最大的破壞之一是平分舊城區兩岸的費茲河。許多世紀以來費茲河被公認為該城的靈魂。事實上，人們可以親自見證廣闊的河脈水網流經整個城市，如私人和公共噴泉等地方。 不幸地，自 1952 年以來，因為河川污染，受到混凝土板一點一滴的掩蓋。整個拆除過程摧毀了許多河堤周邊的房子，目的是讓機器進入麥地那狹窄的人行道。這些城市裡的空地很快成為了非法停車場或垃圾場。事實上，河流在進入舊城區之前的水質相當乾淨。後來受到環境污染，主要是因為未經處理的污水及如鞣革等，工藝品化學劑的排放。到了某個程度，由於我無法忍受河流遭到褻瀆 ，這是我家鄉相當重要的一部分，於是我決定採取行動，尤其是當我得知政府將撥款處理污水和改善情況。 有了乾淨的水，重新整頓這條河流變得更有可能，除了運氣還有很多的鞭策，政府聘請了我和我的夥伴田島貴子與一個工程師團隊一起揭開這條河流的面紗。然而我們很鬼祟，我們要求更多：將河堤改為人行步道，然後將這些步道連結回到城市的結構，最後將沿著河堤的空地轉變爲公共場合，也就是費茲舊城區所欠缺的人行步道。現在我簡要告訴你這些公共場所中的二個地方 第一個是 Rcif 廣場，實際上就在河的上方，也就是你在這裡所看到的虛線。這個廣場曾經是混亂的交通樞紐，實際上損害了舊城區完整性，其在世界上擁有最大的人行步道網路。你可以在這裡看到歷史名橋的下面，就在廣場旁邊，你可看到河流看起來像一條垃圾河。相反地，我們提議使廣場完全成為人行步道區，廣場上方搭蓋再生皮帳篷，和河堤連結。 第二項干預也是沿著河堤的城市虛體空間，它曾經是一個非法停車場，我們提議將它轉變為舊城區的第一個休閒活動場。休閒活動場的地面採用再生輪胎來建構，同時也結合人工濕地，不只淨化了河流的水，當洪水爆發時，也能保持它的原貌。 隨著計劃的發展，獲得多項設計大獎，新的利益相關人士介入干涉，改變了計劃目標和設計。唯一能夠讓我們繼續履行這個工程的主要目標，是要我們做一些非比尋常的事，通常建築師不會做的事。那也就是把設計的自尊和主權意識拋在後面，並著重成為社會活動人士，且試著配合這個利害關係人的議程，重點放在項目的主要目標：就是揭開這條河的面紗、整治污水以及為大家提供公共空間。我們事實上非常幸運，很多目標都有實現或者正在發生進行中。例如照片中的 Rcif 廣場。這是6年前的樣貌。這是現在的樣貌，現在仍然在建造中，但實際上是當地人口過度使用。最後，當計劃完成時，這是 Rcif 廣場未來的樣貌。這是河流受到垃圾掩蓋的樣子。於是經過多年努力後，河流清澈，沒有受到掩蓋。最後，當計劃結束時你可以在這裡看到河流。 當然，重建費茲河流的行動將持續改變和適應城市的社會政治景觀。但我們堅信重塑建築師的角色和機構，為我們訂定了核心理念，就是轉變受污染的河流和所有公共空間，因此確定費茲城市將為當地居民保持原有的城市生活而不是成為一個木乃伊的遺蹟。 非常謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
