Talk	en	zh-tw
baba_shiv_sometimes_it_s_good_to_give_up_the_driver_s_seat	"I'm going to start on a slightly somber note. Two thousand and seven, five years ago, my wife gets diagnosed with breast cancer. Stage IIB. Now, looking back, the most harrowing part of that experience was not just the hospital visits — these were very painful for my wife, understandably so. It was not even the initial shock of knowing that she had breast cancer at just 39 years old, absolutely no history of cancer in her family. The most horrifying and agonizing part of the whole experience was we were making decisions after decisions after decisions that were being thrust upon us. Should it be a mastectomy? Should it be a lumpectomy? Should it be a more aggressive form of treatment, given that it was stage IIB? With all the side effects? Or should it be a less aggressive form of treatment? And these were being thrust upon us by the doctors. Now you could ask this question, why were the doctors doing this? A simplistic answer would be, the doctors are doing this because they want to protect themselves legally. I think that is too simplistic. These are well-meaning doctors, some of them have gone on to become very good friends. They probably were simply following the wisdom that has come down through the ages, this adage that when you're making decisions, especially decisions of importance, it's best to be in charge, it's best to be in control, it's best to be in the driver's seat. And we were certainly in the driver's seat, making all these decisions. And let me tell you — if some of you have been there, it was a most agonizing and harrowing experience. Which got me thinking. I said, is there any validity to this whole adage that when you're making decisions, it's best to take the driver's seat, be in charge, be in control? Or are there contexts where we're far better off taking the passenger's seat and have someone else drive? For example, a trusted financial advisor, could be a trusted doctor, etc. And since I study human decision making, I said, I'm going to run some studies to find some answers. And I'm going to share one of these studies with you today. So, imagine that all of you are participants in the study. I want to tell you that what you're going to do in the study is, you're going to drink a cup of tea. If you're wondering why, I'll tell you why in a few seconds from now. You are going to solve a series of puzzles, and I'm going to show you examples of these puzzles momentarily. And the more puzzles you solve, the greater the chances that you'll win some prizes. Now, why do you have to consume the tea? Why? Because it makes a lot of sense: In order to solve these puzzles effectively, if you think about it, your mind needs to be in two states simultaneously, right? It needs to be alert, for which caffeine is very good. Simultaneously, it needs to be calm — not agitated, calm — for which chamomile is very good. Now comes the between-subjects design, the AB design, the AB testing. So what I'm going to do is randomly assign you to one of two groups. So imagine that there is an imaginary line out here, so everyone here will be group A, everyone out here will be group B. Now, for you folks, what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you these two teas, and I'll go ahead and ask you to choose your tea. So you can choose whichever tea you want. You can decide, what is your mental state: OK, I choose the caffeinated tea, I choose the chamomile tea. So you're going to be in charge, you're going to be in control, you're going to be in the driver's seat. You folks, I'm going to show you these two teas, but you don't have a choice. I'm going to give you one of these two teas, and keep in mind, I'm going to pick one of these two teas at random for you. And you know that. So if you think about it, this is an extreme-case scenario, because in the real world, whenever you are taking passenger's seat, very often the driver is going to be someone you trust, an expert, etc. So this is an extreme-case scenario. Now, you're all going to consume the tea. So imagine that you're taking the tea now, we'll wait for you to finish the tea. We'll give another five minutes for the ingredient to have its effects. Now you're going to have 30 minutes to solve 15 puzzles. Here's an example of the puzzle you're going to solve. Anyone in the audience want to take a stab? Audience member: Pulpit! Baba Shiv: Whoa! OK. That's cool. Yeah, so what we'd do if we had you who gave the answer as a participant, we would have calibrated the difficulty level of the puzzles to your expertise. Because we want these puzzles to be difficult. These are tricky puzzles, because your first instinct is to say ""tulip."" And then you have to unstick yourself. Right? So these have been calibrated to your level of expertise, because we want this to be difficult, and I'll tell you why, momentarily. Now, here's another example. Anyone? This is much more difficult. Audience member: Embark. BS: Yeah. Wow! OK. So, yeah, so this is, again, difficult. You'll say ""kamber,"" then you'll go, ""maker,"" and all that, and then you can unstick yourself. So you have 30 minutes now to solve these 15 puzzles. Now, the question we're asking here is, in terms of the outcome — and it comes in the number of puzzles solved — will you in the driver's seat end up solving more puzzles because you are in control, you could decide which tea you would choose, or would you be better off, in terms of the number of puzzles solved? And, systemically, what we will show, across a series of studies, is that you, the passengers, even though the tea was picked for you at random, will end up solving more puzzles than you, the drivers. We also observe another thing, and that is, you folks not only are solving fewer puzzles, you're also putting less juice into the task — less effort, you're less persistent, and so on. How do we know that? Well, we have two objective measures. One is, what is the time, on average, you're taking in attempting to solve these puzzles? You will spend less time compared to you. Second, you have 30 minutes to solve these; are you taking the entire 30 minutes or are you giving up before the 30 minutes elapse? You will be more likely to give up before the 30 minutes elapse, compared to you. So you're putting in less juice, and therefore, the outcome: fewer puzzles solved. That brings us now to: why does this happen? And under what situations — when — would we see this pattern of results where the passenger is going to show better, more favorable outcomes, compared to the driver? It all has to do with when you face what I call the INCA. It's an acronym that stands for the nature of the feedback you're getting after you made the decision. So if you think about it, in this particular puzzle task — it could happen in investing in the stock market, very volatile out there, it could be the medical situation — the feedback here is immediate. You know the feedback, whether you're solving the puzzles or not. Right? Second, it is negative. Remember, the deck was stacked against you, in terms of the difficulty level of these puzzles. And this can happen in the medical domain. For example, very early on in the treatment, things are negative, the feedback, before things become positive. Right? It can happen in the stock market. Volatile stock market, getting negative feedback, it is also immediate. And the feedback in all these cases is concrete, it's unambiguous; you know if you've solved the puzzles or not. Now, the added one, apart from this immediacy, negative, this concreteness — now you have a sense of agency. You were responsible for your decision. So what do you do? You focus on the foregone option. You say, you know what? I should have chosen the other tea. (Laughter) That casts your decision in doubt, reduces the confidence you have in the decision, the confidence you have in the performance, the performance in terms of solving the puzzles. And therefore less juice into the task, fewer puzzles solved and less favorable outcomes compared to you folks. And this can happen in the medical domain, if you think about it, right? A patient in the driver's seat, for example. Less juice, which means keeping herself or himself less physically fit, physically active to hasten the recovery process, which is what is often advocated. You probably wouldn't do that. And therefore, there are times when you're facing the INCA, when the feedback is going to be immediate, negative, concrete and you have the sense of agency, where you're far better off taking the passenger's seat and have someone else drive. Now, I started off on a somber note. I want to finish up on a more upbeat note. It has now been five years, slightly more than five years, and the good news, thank God, is that the cancer is still in remission. So it all ends well. But one thing I didn't mention was that very early on into her treatment, my wife and I decided that we would take the passenger's seat. And that made so much of a difference in terms of the peace of mind that came with that; we could focus on her recovery. We let the doctors make all the decisions and take the driver's seat. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想從有點嚴肅的話題說起。2007年，5年前，我太太診斷出乳癌，第二期B階段。現在回想起，那過程最難熬階段現在回想起，那過程最難熬階段不是醫院就診過程—可理解的，我太太在這過程中吃了不少苦。(最難熬階段)甚至也不是最初的震驚階段，得知她在39歲的年紀就得了乳癌，她的家庭絕對沒有癌症病史。 治療癌症過程中最惶恐和折磨的階段治療癌症過程中最惶恐和折磨的階段是我們做完一決定後又被迫去做另一個決定。是我們做完一決定後又被迫去做另一個決定。該做乳房切除術嗎?該做乳房腫瘤切除術嗎?在乳癌第二期B階段，該做更積極的治療方式嗎?在乳癌第二期B階段，該做更積極的治療方式嗎?產生副作用怎麼辦?或是該做沒那麼積極的治療方式?而且我們被醫生的這些壓力壓得喘不過氣來。而且我們被醫生的這些壓力壓得喘不過氣來。 現在你可能會問這個問題，為什麼醫生要這樣做呢?現在有人可能會說，醫生會這樣做是為了要合法的保護自己嘛。我覺得這是太幼稚的想法。這些都是有良心的醫生，其中有些醫生進而和病人成為要好的朋友。他們可能只是遵循著那些隨年紀所增長的經驗有句老話這樣說的，當你作決定時，特別是重要決定時，最好是要掌控一切，如同坐在駕駛座般。 而且我們的確是如同坐在駕駛座，做所有決定，讓我來告訴你，如果你們有人曾經處於那情況下，都會覺得這是最惶恐和折磨的過程。這讓我開始思索一些事。我想，有任何方式來驗證那句老話，當你作決定時，最好要如同坐在駕駛座，一切置於掌控?或者坐在乘客座讓其他人駕駛的方式會比較好一點?比如，變成一個信任的理財顧問般，可能是一個可以信任的醫生，等等。而且由於我研究人類決策學，所以我想我要作一些研究找出答案。 而我今天要和你們分享這研究的一些結果。所以，想像你們都是這研究的實驗對象。我要告訴你們在這實驗中你們所要做的就是你們要喝杯茶。如果你們好奇原因，我待會幾秒鐘後會告訴你們。你要去解開一連串的謎題，我馬上會給你看一些例子。你解開越多謎題，你贏得獎金的機會就越大。 那麼，為什麼你們必須喝茶呢?為什麼呢? 因為這麼做相當有意義。為了要正確的解開這些謎題，你們想一下，你的大腦必需要同時處在兩個狀態。對吧 ? 必需要清醒，那麼，要喝咖啡因的茶比較好。同時，必需要保持鎮定。不能焦慮，要鎮定。那麼，要喝含洋甘菊的茶比較好。 現在開始 “受試者間設計”，亦即基本AB設計，AB測試。所以我將你們隨機分成兩組。所以我將你們隨機分成兩組。所以想像有條想像的線在這裡。所以這邊的人是組別A，而這邊的人為組別B。 現在，對你們這群人，我要做的就是我要給你們這兩種茶，而且我要你們選擇一種茶。所以你們能選擇要喝哪種茶。你們能決定，要讓頭腦處於什麼狀態:好的，我要選擇含咖啡因的茶，我要選擇含洋甘菊的茶。所以你將可掌握一切，控制一切，你將如同坐在駕駛座。 你們這群人，我會給你們看這兩種茶，但你們沒有選擇權。我要給你們其中一種茶，記著，我是隨機挑一種茶給你。記著，我是隨機挑一種茶給你。而且你知道這過程。所以如果你思考一下，這是一種極端條件的情境，因為在現實世界中，每當你坐在乘客座時，駕駛人常常是你所信賴的人，經驗豐富的人。所以說這是一個極端狀況的情境。 現在，你們都要喝下這杯茶。所以想像一下你們正在喝茶，我們會等你喝完茶的。我們會再等你五分鐘等茶發揮作用。 接著你們有30分鐘的時間解15個謎題。這是你們要解的謎題。有人要嘗試嗎? (聽眾: Pulpit) Baba Shiv: 哇!好酷喔。所以我們會做的就是如果你答對了，基於你是參予者的緣故，我們會參考你的程度校正難度。基於你是參予者的緣故，我們會參考你的程度校正難度。因為我們想要問題難一點。這些是暗藏陷阱的問題，因為你第一個直覺反應會說是""tulip""，接著你會覺得不對。對吧? 所以這些問題已經參考你們程度調得更難了。因為我們想要讓謎題變難。而我待會告訴你們原因。 現在，這裡有另一個例子。有人想嘗試嗎?這比較難。 (聽眾:Embark) BS:耶，哇，好的。所以，而這也是一個困難的問題。你會說”kambar” 接著你必定會說，”maker”，說完那些後，你會覺得說的不對。 好的，所以現在你有30分鐘來解決這15個謎題。現在，我的問題是就結果而言，就解開的謎題數而言，坐在”駕駛座”上的你們會解開更多謎題嗎，因為你們可以將一切置於掌控，決定喝哪種茶，或是你們(乘客)會表現的比較好，就解開的謎題數而言?我們將系統性的呈現，透過一系列的研究，就是你們，這些”乘客”，即使你們無法選擇要喝哪種茶，但所解開的謎題數將比你們這些""駕駛者""更多。 我們也觀察到其它現像，也就是，你們(駕駛座的人)所解開的謎題數不但比較少，而且放在解謎題上的精力也較少。沒那麼的努力，沒那麼有毅力，等等。你怎麼知道呢?恩，我們有兩個客觀的評估方式。首先，你花在解謎的時間平均有多少?首先，你花在解謎的時間平均有多少?和你們(這些乘客)相比，你們(這些駕駛)花較少的時間。第二，你們有30分鐘解謎，你們會用掉30分鐘嗎，或著你們會在30分鐘之前放棄呢?你們會用掉30分鐘嗎，或著你們會在30分鐘之前放棄呢?和你們(這些乘客)相比，你們(這些駕駛)容易提前放棄。所以你們(這些駕駛)放在解謎上的精力較少，所以結果是:所解開的謎題數較少。 現在，讓我們來看看，為什麼會這樣呢?而且在什麼情況下，我們會看到這樣的結果，也就是，乘客相較於駕駛會表現得比較好?也就是，乘客相較於駕駛會表現得比較好? 這都和當你們面臨(問題)所產生的INCA有關係。這是一個縮寫，代表著當你們作完決定後，你們所得到的結果蘊含的特性。所以，如果你在這個猜謎實驗中檢視一下這些(特性)，(你會發現)股票投資市場也可能會出現這些特性，很反覆無常，醫療情境也有這些(特性)—(做完決定後)都立即得知結果。不管你解多少謎題，你都會立即知道是否解開謎題。 沒錯吧? 第二，所得到的結果是消極的。回想一下，當初所設計的謎題難度，這些問題都是用來難倒你的。而且這情況可能會發生在醫界。例如，一開始所提的醫療過程，狀況未好轉前一切都是消極的。沒錯吧? 這也可能會發生在股票市場。變動的股市常發生沒獲利情況，而這也是立即性的。而所有這些例子中(做完決定後)產生的結果都是具體的。這些結果並不模菱兩可; 你都可知道是否解開謎題。 現在，再提一點，除了這種立即的特性，消極的特性，這種具體的特性外，你還會感受到一種背負感。你要對所做的決定負責。所以你會做什麼呢?你會將精力放在先前的選擇。那麼你知道嗎? 你會說什麼嗎?我當初應該選另一種茶的。 (笑聲) 那會讓你懷疑自己的決定，降低做決定的信心，降低在表現時的信心，就解謎上的表現。因此放較少的精力在問題上，相較之下，(駕駛)解開謎題數也就較少，導致不佳結果。 而且如果你思考一下，這現象也可能發生在醫界。沒錯吧? 例如，坐在駕駛座的病人。(付出的)精力變得較少，這意味著在維持體態上較不那麼努力，較不積極在治療的過程，這情況常被人提到。你們也許不會那麼做。因此，有好幾次你們會面臨到INCA的狀況，當結果立即產生，出現消極情況，產生具體的結果，你感到背負感，從中得知，如果你坐在乘客座，處境會比較好，讓其他人駕駛。 我從嚴肅的話題起頭。我從嚴肅的話題起頭。我想要以愉快的內容作結。(太太的癌症治療)到目前已經五年多了，好消息是，感謝上帝，癌症的症狀仍然在減輕中。 所以，這一切到最後都蠻好的。但有件事我沒有提到，一開始的就醫過程，我太太和我決定坐在乘客的座位上，而那產生截然不同的結果，我們帶著平靜的心情 ""出發""，將注意力放在身體的復原上。我們讓醫生做所有的決定，讓醫生坐在駕駛座。 謝謝。 (掌聲)"
