Talk	en	zh-tw
barbara_natterson_horowitz_what_veterinarians_know_that_doctors_don_t	"Ten years ago, I got a phone call that changed my life. At the time, I was  cardiologist at UCLA, specializing in cardiac  imaging techniques. The call came from a veterinarian at the Los Angeles Zoo. An elderly female chimpanzee had woken up with a facial droop and the veterinarians were worried that she'd had a stroke. They asked if I'd  come to the zoo and image the animal's heart to look for a possible cardiac cause. Now, to be clear, North American zoos are staffed by highly qualified,  board-certified veterinarians who take outstanding  care of their animal patients. But occasionally, they do reach into  the human medical community, particularly for some  speciality consultation, and I was one of the lucky physicians who was invited in to help. I had a chance to rule out a stroke in this chimpanzee and make sure that this gorilla  didn't have a torn aorta, evaluate this macaw for a heart murmur, make sure that this California sea lion's paricardium wasn't inflamed, and in this picture, I'm listening to the heart of a lion after a lifesaving,  collaborative procedure with veterinarians and physicians where we drained 700 cc's of  fluid from the sac in which this lion's  heart was contained. And this procedure, which I have done on many human patients, was identical, with the exception of that paw and that tail. Now most of the time, I was working at UCLA Medical Center with physicians, discussing symptoms and diagnoses and treatments for my human patients, but some of the time, I was working at the Los Angeles Zoo with veterinarians, discussing  symptoms and diagnoses and treatments for their animal patients. And occasionally, on  the very same day, I went on rounds at  UCLA Medical Center and at the Los Angeles Zoo. And here's what started coming into very clear focus for me. Physicians and veterinarians were essentially taking care of the same disorders in their  animal and human patients: congestive heart failure, brain tumors, leukemia, diabetes,  arthritis, ALS, breast cancer, even psychiatric syndromes like depression, anxiety, compulsions, eating disorders and self-injury. Now, I've got a confession to make. Even though I studied comparative physiology and evolutionary biology as an undergrad — I had even written my senior  thesis on Darwinian theory — learning about the  significant overlap between the disorders of  animals and humans, it came as a much needed  wake-up call for me. So I started wondering, with all of these overlaps, how was it that I had never thought to ask a veterinarian, or consult the veterinary literature, for insights into one  of my human patients? Why had I never, nor had any of my  physician friends and colleagues whom I asked, ever attended  a veterinary conference? For that matter, why was  any of this a surprise? I mean, look, every single physician accepts some biological connection between animals and humans. Every medication that we prescribe or that we've taken ourselves or we've given to our families has first been tested on an animal. But there's something very different about giving an animal a  medication or a human disease and the animal developing  congestive heart failure or diabetes or breast cancer  on their own. Now, maybe some of the surprise comes from the increasing separation in our world between the urban and the nonurban. You know, we hear about these city kids who think that wool grows on trees or that cheese comes from a plant. Well, today's human hospitals, increasingly, are turning into these gleaming cathedrals of technology. And this creates a psychological distance between the human patients who are being treated there and animal patients who are living in oceans and farms and jungles. But I think there's an  even deeper reason. Physicians and scientists, we accept intellectually that our species, Homo sapiens, is merely  one species, no more unique or special than any other. But in our hearts, we don't  completely believe that. I feel it myself when I'm  listening to Mozart or looking at pictures of the  Mars Rover on my MacBook. I feel that tug of  human exceptionalism, even as I recognize the  scientifically isolating cost of seeing ourselves as a superior species, apart. Well, I'm trying these days. When I see a human patient now, I always ask, what do the animal doctors know about this problem that I don't know? And, might I be taking better  care of my human patient if I saw them as a human animal patient? Here are a few examples of the  kind of exciting connections that this kind of  thinking has led me to. Fear-induced heart failure. Around the year 2000, human cardiologists ""discovered"" emotionally induced heart failure. It was described in a gambling father  who had lost his life's savings with a roll of the dice, in a bride who'd been left at the alter. But it turns out, this  ""new"" human diagnosis was neither new, nor was it uniquely human. Veterinarians had been diagnosing,  treating and even preventing emotionally induced symptoms in animals ranging from monkeys to flamingos, from to deer to rabbits, since the 1970s. How many human lives  might have been saved if this veterinary knowledge had been put into the hands of E.R. docs and cardiologists? Self-injury. Some human patients  harm themselves. Some pluck out patches of hair, others actually cut themselves. Some animal patients  also harm themselves. There are birds that  pluck out feathers. There are stallions that repetitively bite their flanks until they bleed. But veterinarians have very specific and very effective ways of treating and even preventing self-injury in their self-injuring animals. Shouldn't this veterinary knowledge be put into the hands of psychotherapists and  parents and patients struggling with self-injury? Postpartum depression and  postpartum psychosis. Sometimes, soon after giving birth, some women become depressed, and sometimes they become seriously  depressed and even psychotic. They may neglect their newborn, and in some extreme cases, even harm the child. Equine veterinarians also know that occasionally, a mare, soon after giving birth, will neglect the foal, refusing to nurse, and in some instances, kick the foal, even to death. But veterinarians have devised an intervention to deal with this foal rejection syndrome that involves increasing  oxytocin in the mare. Oxytocin is the bonding hormone, and this leads to renewed interest, on the part of the mare, in her foal. Shouldn't this information be put into the hands of ob/gyn's and family doctors and patients who are struggling with postpartum depression and psychosis? Well, despite all of this promise, unfortunately the gulf between our fields remains large. To explain it, I'm afraid I'm going  to have to air some dirty laundry. Some physicians can be real snobs about doctors who are not M.D.'s. I'm talking about dentists and  optometrists and psychologists, but maybe especially animal doctors. Of course, most physicians don't realize that it is harder to get into vet school these days than medical school, and that when we go  to medical school, we learn everything  there is to know about one species, Homo sapiens, but veterinarians need to learn about health and disease in mammals, amphibians, reptiles, fish and birds. So I don't blame the vets for feeling annoyed by my profession's condescension and ignorance. But here's one from the vets: What do you call a veterinarian who can only take  care of one species? A physician. (Laughter) Closing the gap has become  a passion for me, and I'm doing this  through programs like Darwin on Rounds at UCLA, where we're bringing animal experts  and evolutionary biologists and embedding them on our medical teams with our interns and our residents. And through Zoobiquity conferences, where we bring medical schools  together with veterinary schools for collabortive discussions of the shared diseases and disorders of animal and human patients. At Zoobiquity conferences, participants learn how treating breast cancer in a tiger can help us better treat breast cancer in a kindergarten teacher; how understanding polycystic overies in a Holstein cow can help us better take care of a dance instructor  with painful periods; and how better understanding the  treatment of separation anxiety in a high-strung Sheltie can help an anxious young child struggling with his first days of school. In the United States and now  internationally, at Zoobiquity conferences physicians and veterinarians check  their attitudes and their preconceptions at the door and come  together as colleagues, as peers, as doctors. After all, we humans  are animals, too, and it's time for us physicians to embrace our patients' and our own animal natures and join veterinarians in a species-spanning approach to health. Because it turns out, some of the best and  most humanistic medicine is being practiced by doctors whose patients aren't human. And one of the best ways  we can take care of the human patient is by  paying close attention to how all the other  patients on the planet live, grow, get sick and heal. Thank you. (Applause)."	十年前，我接到了一通電話，改變了一生，那時我是加州大學洛杉磯分校的心臟病學家，專門從事於心臟影像技術，這通電話由洛杉磯動物園的一位獸醫師打過來，有一隻年老的母猩猩睡醒時面部下垂，獸醫師擔心牠中風。他們問我可否去一趟動物園，給母猩猩的心臟拍一張照片，看看心臟有沒有問題。先說明一下，北美洲的動物園都會雇用高水準兼持有執照的獸醫師，為生病的動物提供良好照顧，但是他們偶爾也會向照顧人類的醫師尋求協助，特別是一些專業的諮詢，而我是有幸受邀前去幫助他們的其中一位醫師，因此我有機會為這隻猩猩排除中風的疑慮，確保這隻大猩猩的主動脈未曾破裂，替這隻金剛鸚鵡測量心跳聲，確保這隻加州海獅沒有患上心包炎，在這張照片裡，我正在給一隻獅子聽診，這是在獸醫師和內科醫師合作進行了一次救生之後，我們從這隻獅子心臟的心包排掉700毫升的液體，這個步驟跟我曾在很多病人身上實施過的完全相同，除了那隻爪子和尾巴。現在我經常會跟加州大學洛杉磯分校醫學中心的內科醫師共事，討論我們病「人」的症狀、診斷和療法，但是有時候我會到洛杉磯動物園工作，為了他們的動物患者，和那裡的獸醫師一起討論症狀、診斷和療法，偶爾在同一天，我會在加州大學洛杉磯分校的醫學中心和洛杉磯動物園之間來回跑，而在這裡開始變得非常明確清晰，就是醫師和獸醫師根本在處理同樣的疾病，不管在人類還是動物身上：充血性心臟衰竭、腦部腫瘤、白血病、糖尿病、關節炎、漸凍症、乳癌，甚至精神病症狀如憂鬱症、焦慮症、強迫症、飲食障礙症或自我傷害。現在我必須承認，雖然我在大學主修對比生理學和演化生物學—甚至畢業論文寫的是關於達爾文理論—當理解到動物和人類疾病之間存在著明顯的重疊部份時，我突然靈光乍現，於是我開始想，既然有這麼多的重疊，為甚麼從來沒想過請求獸醫師的意見，或者查找獸醫方面的文獻，以更好地瞭解我的病人呢？為甚麼我或是我詢問過的醫師朋友和同事都沒參加獸醫學的會議呢？既然人類和動物的疾病是重疊的，那麼又有甚麼奇怪的呢？我的意思是每位醫師都知道動物和人類之間有著生物學上的聯繫。我們所處方的每份藥物，或者我們自己的用藥，或者給我們家人的用藥，都曾經先在動物身上進行試驗。但是情況也有很大的不同，給動物用一種藥或是患上人類疾病時，及動物得了充血性心臟衰竭、或糖尿病、乳癌。但現在讓我們感到驚訝的是，也許在我們這個世界裡城市與鄉郊之間日漸擴大的隔閡，我們聽說過那些城市裡的孩子，他們認為羊毛是在樹上生長的，或者乳酪從植物長出來的。今天人類的醫院正逐漸變成一些閃耀的科技教堂，使在醫院治療的病人跟生活在海洋、農田和森林間的動物患者產生一種心理上的距離感。但我認為還有一個更深層次的原因，我們作為醫師和科學家，理智上明白到人類作為一個物種，也只不過是一個物種，並不比其他物種更為獨特。但其實在我們內心，我們並不完全認同。當我聽莫扎特的音樂時，或在蘋果電腦上看火星探測器的照片，我自己是這麼感覺的。我感受到人類特殊論的勝利，即使我意識到人類以科學方式孤立自身所付出的代價，把自己隔開看做一種上等的物種。現時我正在嘗試，當我替病人看病時，我總會問，獸醫對這個問題會否知道那些我不知道的事嗎？還有如果我把病人看做人類動物患者，能否給他們更好的治療？下面是幾個讓人興奮的聯繫的例子，就是這種想法讓我聯想到那些點子。恐懼誘發心臟衰竭—2000年左右，人類心臟學家「發現」情緒會誘發心臟衰竭，文獻曾經記述過一個嗜賭成性的父親，他一次擲骰子就輸光畢生積蓄，一個在聖壇前面被離棄的新娘，但最後我們發現這種「全新」的人類疾病，既不新奇又不為人類所獨有，獸醫早就已經在診斷、治療甚至防止動物身上的情緒誘發症狀，從猴子到火烈鳥、從鹿到兔子，乃自 19 世紀 70 年代起開始。如果急診室和心臟專科醫師能運用這一點獸醫學的知識，那麼有多少人類生命可被拯救？自殘—有些病人會傷害自己，有些會拔出整把頭髮，有些會實際地切割自己。有些動物患者也傷害自己，有些鳥類會拔掉自己的羽毛，有些成年公馬反覆地咬自己的側腹直到流血。但是獸醫師使用一些特定且有效的方式去治療甚至防止自我傷害的動物在身上自殘。難道這些有關獸醫學的知識不該被努力對抗自殘的精神治療師、父母和病人所運用嗎？產後抑鬱症和產後精神錯亂—有時就在生產之後不久，有些婦女會變得憂鬱，有時她們患上嚴重憂鬱症甚至精神錯亂，她們或者會忽視剛出生的寶寶，在些極端的案例中，甚至會傷害她們的孩子。馬專科獸醫師也知道偶爾一頭母馬剛剛生產後，也會忽視小馬，拒絕餵奶，有些時候會踢牠，甚至把牠們踢死。但是獸醫師設計出一種介入方法以處理這類馬駒抗拒症狀，就是增加母馬體內的催產素。催產素是一種跟聯繫有關的荷爾蒙，它會給母馬重新感到對小馬的興趣。難道這種知識不應該被正在與產後憂鬱症和精神錯亂抗爭的婦產管理者、醫師和病人所運用嗎？好吧，即使這些都已實現，不幸地在我們領域間的鴻溝還很大，為了解釋這一點，我恐怕要揭露一些陰暗面，有些醫師是完完全全的勢利眼，他們看不起不是醫學博士的醫師，我指的是牙醫、配鏡師和心理醫師，也尤其指獸醫師。當然大多數醫師意識不到現在進入獸醫學院較進入醫學院更難，而且當我們上醫學院時，我們在那裡所學的全部東西都只為瞭解一個物種—人類，但是獸醫師需要學習哺乳動物、兩棲動物、爬行動物、魚類和鳥類的健康和疾病，因此我不會責怪獸醫師，因著我的專業所帶來的優越感與無知而感到厭煩，但是獸醫有個說法:你會把一個只能照顧某一物種的獸醫師叫做甚麼？一位醫師（笑聲）將兩者的差距縮小變成我的熱情，而我正在通過一些專案來做這件事，比如加州大學洛杉磯分校的「達爾文巡邏員」專案，我們把動物專家和演化生物學家找來，安插在我們的醫療隊伍中，跟我們的實習生和住院醫師一起工作。而且通過「人獸同源學」會議，我們讓醫學院和獸醫學院聚在一起，討論動物患者和人類病者之間的共同疾病和失調，在「人獸同源學」會議上，參與者學習到替老虎治療乳腺癌將會如何幫助我們更好地治療一位幼兒園老師的乳腺癌；好好瞭解荷斯坦牛的多囊卵巢將會如何幫助我們更好地照顧一位受經痛困擾的舞蹈老師；深入瞭解一隻患上分離焦慮症且高度緊張的喜樂蒂牧羊犬的治療，將會如何幫助一個首天上學就感費力的焦慮幼孩。在美國，而且現時在全球， 於「人獸同源學」會議上，醫師和獸醫師會將態度以及成見留在會議室外，然後以同行的身份、同輩的身份、以及醫師的身份聚在一起。畢竟我們人類也是動物，是時候讓我們醫師去接受我們同時是病人和動物的本質，和獸醫師合作以跨越物種的方式處理健康問題。因為最後證明是一些最好且最合乎人道主義的藥物治療，正被患者並不是人類的醫師所使用，而我們照顧人類患者的最好方法之一就是密切注意在這星球上其他病患者是如何生活、成長、患病以及康復。謝謝！（掌聲）
