Talk	en	zh-tw
barry_schwartz_the_way_we_think_about_work_is_broken	"Today I'm going to talk about work. And the question I want to ask and answer is this: ""Why do we work?"" Why do we drag ourselves out of bed every morning instead of living our lives just filled with bouncing from one TED-like adventure to another? (Laughter) You may be asking yourselves that very question. Now, I know of course, we have to make a living, but nobody in this room thinks that that's the answer to the question, ""Why do we work?"" For folks in this room, the work we do is challenging, it's engaging, it's stimulating, it's meaningful. And if we're lucky, it might even be important. So, we wouldn't work if we didn't get paid, but that's not why we do what we do. And in general, I think we think that material rewards are a pretty bad reason for doing the work that we do. When we say of somebody that he's ""in it for the money,"" we are not just being descriptive. (Laughter) Now, I think this is totally obvious, but the very obviousness of it raises what is for me an incredibly profound question. Why, if this is so obvious, why is it that for the overwhelming majority of people on the planet, the work they do has none of the characteristics that get us up and out of bed and off to the office every morning? How is it that we allow the majority of people on the planet to do work that is monotonous, meaningless and soul-deadening? Why is it that as capitalism developed, it created a mode of production, of goods and services, in which all the nonmaterial satisfactions that might come from work were eliminated? Workers who do this kind of work, whether they do it in factories, in call centers, or in fulfillment warehouses, do it for pay. There is certainly no other earthly reason to do what they do except for pay. So the question is, ""Why?"" And here's the answer: the answer is technology. Now, I know, I know — yeah, yeah, yeah, technology, automation screws people, blah blah — that's not what I mean. I'm not talking about the kind of technology that has enveloped our lives, and that people come to TED to hear about. I'm not talking about the technology of things, profound though that is. I'm talking about another technology. I'm talking about the technology of ideas. I call it, ""idea technology"" — how clever of me. (Laughter) In addition to creating things, science creates ideas. Science creates ways of understanding. And in the social sciences, the ways of understanding that get created are ways of understanding ourselves. And they have an enormous influence on how we think, what we aspire to, and how we act. If you think your poverty is God's will, you pray. If you think your poverty is the result of your own inadequacy, you shrink into despair. And if you think your poverty is the result of oppression and domination, then you rise up in revolt. Whether your response to poverty is resignation or revolution, depends on how you understand the sources of your poverty. This is the role that ideas play in shaping us as human beings, and this is why idea technology may be the most profoundly important technology that science gives us. And there's something special about idea technology, that makes it different from the technology of things. With things, if the technology sucks, it just vanishes, right? Bad technology disappears. With ideas — false ideas about human beings will not go away if people believe that they're true. Because if people believe that they're true, they create ways of living and institutions that are consistent with these very false ideas. And that's how the industrial revolution created a factory system in which there was really nothing you could possibly get out of your day's work, except for the pay at the end of the day. Because the father — one of the fathers of the Industrial Revolution, Adam Smith — was convinced that human beings were by their very natures lazy, and wouldn't do anything unless you made it worth their while, and the way you made it worth their while was by incentivizing, by giving them rewards. That was the only reason anyone ever did anything. So we created a factory system consistent with that false view of human nature. But once that system of production was in place, there was really no other way for people to operate, except in a way that was consistent with Adam Smith's vision. So the work example is merely an example of how false ideas can create a circumstance that ends up making them true. It is not true that you ""just can't get good help anymore."" It is true that you ""can't get good help anymore"" when you give people work to do that is demeaning and soulless. And interestingly enough, Adam Smith — the same guy who gave us this incredible invention of mass production, and division of labor — understood this. He said, of people who worked in assembly lines, of men who worked in assembly lines, he says: ""He generally becomes as stupid as it is possible for a human being to become."" Now, notice the word here is ""become."" ""He generally becomes as stupid as it is possible for a human being to become."" Whether he intended it or not, what Adam Smith was telling us there, is that the very shape of the institution within which people work creates people who are fitted to the demands of that institution and deprives people of the opportunity to derive the kinds of satisfactions from their work that we take for granted. The thing about science — natural science — is that we can spin fantastic theories about the cosmos, and have complete confidence that the cosmos is completely indifferent to our theories. It's going to work the same damn way no matter what theories we have about the cosmos. But we do have to worry about the theories we have of human nature, because human nature will be changed by the theories we have that are designed to explain and help us understand human beings. The distinguished anthropologist, Clifford Geertz, said, years ago, that human beings are the ""unfinished animals."" And what he meant by that was that it is only human nature to have a human nature that is very much the product of the society in which people live. That human nature, that is to say our human nature, is much more created than it is discovered. We design human nature by designing the institutions within which people live and work. And so you people — pretty much the closest I ever get to being with masters of the universe — you people should be asking yourself a question, as you go back home to run your organizations. Just what kind of human nature do you want to help design? Thank you. (Applause) Thanks."	今天我想談談有關工作的話題而我想提出和回答的問題是：「我們為何工作？」為何我們要每天早上將自己拖下床而不是好好的享受充滿一個接著一個TED般的探險的人生？ (笑聲) 你可能也捫心自問過這個問題我當然曉得我們需要工作賴以為生但這房間裡不會有人認為這就能回答「我們為何工作？」這個問題對在座諸位而言，我們的工作充滿挑戰性令人著迷、令人振奮而充滿意義而再幸運一點的話，可能還十分重要 所以，雖然我們拿不到錢就不工作但這並非我們行動的理由而一般而言我想我們都認為，物質上的回報對於工作而言實在是個挺糟糕的理由當我們說某人「為財推磨」這可不單單只是形容而已 (笑聲) 我想這相當明顯但就是這個明顯的事實令我產生一個非常深切的問題為什麼 ─ 如果這麼顯而易見 ─為什麼這星球上絕大多數的人都從事著毫無特色、無法讓他們每天早上起床、離開床舖、到公司報到的工作？我們怎麼任由這星球上大部分的人從事著單調、無意義而扼殺靈魂的工作？為何隨著資本主義逐漸發展，一個製造商品和服務的模式隨之產生卻使得工作原本能帶來的所有非物質滿足全消失了？做著這種工作的員工，無論他們是在工廠、在客服中心還是在運貨倉儲中心都為了酬勞而工作他們之所以工作，很明顯地沒有報酬之外的任何理由了 所以這便是問題，「為什麼？」答案就在這裡：答案就是科技好，我懂，我懂…是是是，科技、自動化腐蝕人性，諸如此類陳腔濫調…但這不是我要說的我不是在談論那一種科技那種包圍了我們的生活、 大家來TED想聽到的科技我也不是要談論那種關於實物的科技雖然它的影響也很深遠我是在談論另一種科技我在談論和想法有關的科技，我稱之為「想法科技」─看看我多聰明 (笑聲) 在創作實物之外，科學也創造想法科學創造理解事物的方式而在社會科學中，我們創造出理解事物的方式，就是理解我們自己的方式它們大大影響了我們如何思考、渴望什麼以及如何行動 如果你認為你的貧困是上天的旨意，你會祈禱如果你認為你的貧困來自於自身的不足你會失落而萎靡不振而如果你認為你的貧困來自於他人的壓迫和統治你便會起而反抗無論你對貧困的回應是服從認分或是發動革命一切要看你如何理解自己貧困的來源這就是想法在將我們形塑成人時扮演的角色這也是為何想法科技可能是科學帶給我們的一切中最深切重要的一種科技 想法科技有一個特點讓它和跟實物的科技有所不同跟實物有關的科技，要是它爛透了它就會直接消失，對吧？差勁的科技會失去蹤影至於想法呢 ─關於人類的錯誤想法很難真正消失只要有人對其深信不疑因為只要有人深信不疑他們創造的生活方式和機構就會和那些非常錯誤的想法一致 而這就是工業革命如何創造了工廠系統讓人在這個系統裡日日勞碌，卻什麼也得不到除了一天結束時的工資之外正因為那位 ─ 其中一位 ─工業革命之父，亞當·史密斯─深深相信人類的天性就是懶惰除非覺得划得來，否則什麼也不幹而讓他們值回票價的方法就是激勵他們，給他們回報這是天底下任何人會去做任何事的唯一理由因此基於對人性的錯誤想法，我們創立了相對應的工廠系統但是一旦這種生產系統上了軌道我們就再也找不到另一種可能的運作方式，只剩下和亞當·史密斯觀點一致的這種方式所以這個工作的案例僅僅是一個範例告訴我們錯誤的想法如何創造出最後讓它變成事實的環境 世上其實沒有什麼真正「已經無計可施」的情況真正「無計可施」的情況發生在你丟給他們那些毫無意義又沒有靈魂的工作時而相當有趣的是，亞當·史密斯─那個給了我們這個不可思議的發明給了我們大量製造、勞務分工的構想的人─ 很清楚這件事他說過，在組裝線上工作的人對於組裝線上的員工，他說：「他通常會變成人類愚蠢到最極致的狀態」好好注意，他用的詞是「變成」「他通常會變成人類愚蠢到最極致的狀態」無論他是不是故意的，亞當·史密斯告訴我們的是正是這個我們在其中工作的機構型態製造出符合這個機構需求的人同時從他們認為理所當然的工作中剝奪了他們從中獲得各種滿足的機會 科學這回事 ─ 自然科學 ─就是我們可以對於宇宙理論進行天馬行空的構想同時可以完全確信這個宇宙完完全全不會受到我們製造的理論影響一切將該死地一如往常運轉無論我們製造出什麼關於宇宙的理論但我們確實該擔心我們製造出的、關於人性的理論因為人性是會被改變的，被這些我們設計出來、為了解釋和協助我們更加瞭解人類的理論所改變 著名的人類學家克利福德·格爾茨幾年前曾說人類是「不完全的動物」而他的意思是，只有人性是一種幾乎可說是被我們生活在其中的社會所製造出來的本質那種人性 ─ 也就是說我們人性本質被創造出來的部分，遠比被發現的部分更多我們設計了人性 ──透過設計人類生活和工作其中的機構 所以在座各位 ─恐怕是我能遇到、最接近能夠主宰宇宙萬物的人群 ─當你們回去繼續運作你們的組織時，應該問自己一個問題你們想要設計什麼樣的人性? 謝謝各位 (掌聲) 謝謝
