Talk	en	zh-tw
becci_manson_re_touching_lives_through_photos	"Before March, 2011, I was a photographic retoucher based in New York City. We're pale, gray creatures. We hide in dark, windowless rooms, and generally avoid sunlight. We make skinny models skinnier, perfect skin more perfect, and the impossible possible, and we get criticized in the press all the time, but some of us are actually talented artists with years of experience and a real appreciation for images and photography. On March 11, 2011, I watched from home, as the rest of the world did, as the tragic events unfolded in Japan. Soon after, an organization I volunteer with, All Hands Volunteers, were on the ground, within days, working as part of the response efforts. I, along with hundreds of other volunteers, knew we couldn't just sit at home, so I decided to join them for three weeks. On May the 13th, I made my way to the town of Ōfunato. It's a small fishing town in Iwate Prefecture, about 50,000 people, one of the first that was hit by the wave. The waters here have been recorded at reaching over 24 meters in height, and traveled over two miles inland. As you can imagine, the town had been devastated. We pulled debris from canals and ditches. We cleaned schools. We de-mudded and gutted homes ready for renovation and rehabilitation. We cleared tons and tons of stinking, rotting fish carcasses from the local fish processing plant. We got dirty, and we loved it. For weeks, all the volunteers and locals alike had been finding similar things. They'd been finding photos and photo albums and cameras and SD cards. And everyone was doing the same. They were collecting them up, and handing them in to various places around the different towns for safekeeping. Now, it wasn't until this point that I realized that these photos were such a huge part of the personal loss these people had felt. As they had run from the wave, and for their lives, absolutely everything they had, everything had to be left behind. At the end of my first week there, I found myself helping out in an evacuation center in the town. I was helping clean the onsen, the communal onsen, the huge giant bathtubs. This happened to also be a place in the town where the evacuation center was collecting the photos. This is where people were handing them in, and I was honored that day that they actually trusted me to help them start hand-cleaning them. Now, it was emotional and it was inspiring, and I've always heard about thinking outside the box, but it wasn't until I had actually gotten outside of my box that something happened. As I looked through the photos, there were some were over a hundred years old, some still in the envelope from the processing lab, I couldn't help but think as a retoucher that I could fix that tear and mend that scratch, and I knew hundreds of people who could do the same. So that evening, I just reached out on Facebook and asked a few of them, and by morning the response had been so overwhelming and so positive, I knew we had to give it a go. So we started retouching photos. This was the very first. Not terribly damaged, but where the water had caused that discoloration on the girl's face had to be repaired with such accuracy and delicacy. Otherwise, that little girl isn't going to look like that little girl anymore, and surely that's as tragic as having the photo damaged. (Applause) Over time, more photos came in, thankfully, and more retouchers were needed, and so I reached out again on Facebook and LinkedIn, and within five days, 80 people wanted to help from 12 different countries. Within two weeks, I had 150 people wanting to join in. Within Japan, by July, we'd branched out to the neighboring town of Rikuzentakata, further north to a town called Yamada. Once a week, we would set up our scanning equipment in the temporary photo libraries that had been set up, where people were reclaiming their photos. The older ladies sometimes hadn't seen a scanner before, but within 10 minutes of them finding their lost photo, they could give it to us, have it scanned, uploaded to a cloud server, it would be downloaded by a gaijin, a stranger, somewhere on the other side of the globe, and it'd start being fixed. The time it took, however, to get it back is a completely different story, and it depended obviously on the damage involved. It could take an hour. It could take weeks. It could take months. The kimono in this shot pretty much had to be hand-drawn, or pieced together, picking out the remaining parts of color and detail that the water hadn't damaged. It was very time-consuming. Now, all these photos had been damaged by water, submerged in salt water, covered in bacteria, in sewage, sometimes even in oil, all of which over time is going to continue to damage them, so hand-cleaning them was a huge part of the project. We couldn't retouch the photo unless it was cleaned, dry and reclaimed. Now, we were lucky with our hand-cleaning. We had an amazing local woman who guided us. It's very easy to do more damage to those damaged photos. As my team leader Wynne once said, it's like doing a tattoo on someone. You don't get a chance to mess it up. The lady who brought us these photos was lucky, as far as the photos go. She had started hand-cleaning them herself and stopped when she realized she was doing more damage. She also had duplicates. Areas like her husband and her face, which otherwise would have been completely impossible to fix, we could just put them together in one good photo, and remake the whole photo. When she collected the photos from us, she shared a bit of her story with us. Her photos were found by her husband's colleagues at a local fire department in the debris a long way from where the home had once stood, and they'd recognized him. The day of the tsunami, he'd actually been in charge of making sure the tsunami gates were closed. He had to go towards the water as the sirens sounded. Her two little boys, not so little anymore, but her two boys were both at school, separate schools. One of them got caught up in the water. It took her a week to find them all again and find out that they had all survived. The day I gave her the photos also happened to be her youngest son's 14th birthday. For her, despite all of this, those photos were the perfect gift back to him, something he could look at again, something he remembered from before that wasn't still scarred from that day in March when absolutely everything else in his life had changed or been destroyed. After six months in Japan, 1,100 volunteers had passed through All Hands, hundreds of whom had helped us hand-clean over 135,000 photographs, the large majority — (Applause) — a large majority of which did actually find their home again, importantly. Over five hundred volunteers around the globe helped us get 90 families hundreds of photographs back, fully restored and retouched. During this time, we hadn't really spent more than about a thousand dollars in equipment and materials, most of which was printer inks. We take photos constantly. A photo is a reminder of someone or something, a place, a relationship, a loved one. They're our memory-keepers and our histories, the last thing we would grab and the first thing you'd go back to look for. That's all this project was about, about restoring those little bits of humanity, giving someone that connection back. When a photo like this can be returned to someone like this, it makes a huge difference in the lives of the person receiving it. The project's also made a big difference in the lives of the retouchers. For some of them, it's given them a connection to something bigger, giving something back, using their talents on something other than skinny models and perfect skin. I would like to conclude by reading an email I got from one of them, Cindy, the day I finally got back from Japan after six months. ""As I worked, I couldn't help but think about the individuals and the stories represented in the images. One in particular, a photo of women of all ages, from grandmother to little girl, gathered around a baby, struck a chord, because a similar photo from my family, my grandmother and mother, myself, and newborn daughter, hangs on our wall. Across the globe, throughout the ages, our basic needs are just the same, aren't they?"" Thank you. (Applause) (Applause)"	"在2011年3月以前我是一位在紐約工作的修圖師修圖師既蒼白又陰暗都躲在黑暗沒有窗戶的房間裡而且我們總是對太陽避而不見我們會把乾瘦的模特兒變得更瘦，完美的皮膚變得更精緻更可以化腐朽為神奇雖然我們總是被媒體批評但是有些修圖師真的是不折不扣的藝術家他們擁有資歷也有對照片和攝影的真實體會 在2011年3月11日，我和世界各地的人一樣在家裡得知在日本發生的悲劇不久之後，我參加的一個志工團體(All Hands Volunteers)在幾天內就已經抵達日本在當地幫忙做災後處理了跟其他的志工一樣我知道我們不能只是袖手旁觀所以我決定和他們一起努力三周 3月13日，我到了大船渡市這是一個坐落在岩手縣內的小漁村人口數約為5萬人這是其中一個被海嘯首當其衝的地方據紀錄當時海浪高達24公尺高並且往內陸推進了兩英哩遠就跟你想像的一樣，整個城鎮都毀了 我們把下水道和溝槽都清乾淨整理校園，也把住家內外的泥濘都清除以便重新翻修整理和入住在當地的魚產品加工廠裡我們清理了數以噸計的，噁心腐爛的死魚屍體我們弄得全身髒兮兮的，但我們也樂在其中 有好幾個星期志工們和當地居民都在找類似的東西他們都在找照片和相冊相機還有SD記憶卡所有人都在找那些東西他們把找到的相片收集起來再交到各個城鎮做保管 直到到這個時候我才發覺這些照片對這些人來說是多麼大的損失他們逃命的時候絕對是絕對是沒有任何東西可以帶走的 在第一個禮拜的最後一天我正在一個疏散中心裡幫忙那是一座溫泉，公共的溫泉就是一個很大的澡盆這個地方恰巧也是疏散中心收集照片的所在大家把照片交來這個地方而我很榮幸能受他們信任來手動清理這些照片 接下來發生的事則有點來自衝動和靈感我一直都知道要跳脫固有的框架但是一直到我真的跳出來想一想才體會到一些事情我看著這些照片有些已經超過百年以上了有的還裝在袋子裡還沒沖印我不禁又變成一個修圖師心裡想我可以把這些破損和刮傷都整理好而我也認識上百個也能這麼作的人就在那晚，我在臉書上發聲隔天早上看到大家的回應都是正面而且大快人心的我就知道這勢在必行了所以我們就開始拯救這些照片 這張是第一張不是非常嚴重但是女孩臉已經因為浸水而掉色了這需要絕對的精準與細心來完成修補否則，女孩的臉會變得更不像她這樣的話就跟照片毀了沒兩樣(掌聲) 很棒的是，隨著時間過去更多的照片被送來，我們也需要更多的修圖師所以我又在一次的在臉書還有推特上發文5天之內，就有80個來自12個國家的人願意幫忙兩周之內更有150人要加入我們的行列在日本，七月的時候我們延伸觸角到鄰近的陸前高田市還有更北的山田町我們每個禮拜都會在臨時的相片中心裝置掃描機人們可以在這裡認領他們的相片有些老婦人甚至沒有看過掃描機但在他們找照片的10分鐘裡我們就可以將照片掃描之後上傳到雲端系統然後就在地球的某個地方某個外國人會把它下載下來然後開始修補照片 然而，把照片拿回來要花多長的時間就是另一個故事了這跟照片受損的程度有關可能要一個小時，也可能要好幾周甚至幾個月這張照片的和服勢必要用手畫或是拼貼的方式把沒有被水浸泡到的顏色和細部抓出來這需要花非常久的時間來完成 這些相片都被海水浸泡過上面滿布細菌有的在汙水裡甚至是油汙裡這些東西都會持續的傷害這些相片所以手工清理占了這個計畫的很大一部分在相片尚未清理弄乾或是認領以前我們都無法動手修圖 關於這點我們還滿幸運的有一位當地的婦女教導我們如何整理這些相片只要一不小心就會把照片弄得更糟好比我的組長懷恩說過這就像是幫別人刺青一樣你沒有半點失誤的機會 把這些相片帶過來的小姐跟她的相片一樣的幸運她本來自己在清理這些相片但當她發現這只會更糟的時候就停手了她的照片裡還有疊影她與她先生的臉的區塊本來是不可能修復的但我們只要把它合併在一起就能重新做出一張照片了 她來取相片時也跟我們說了些她的故事她的相片是她丈夫的同事在當地的消防隊的垃圾裡找到的跟她們家的距離可以說是非常遠然而有他們認出她的丈夫海嘯當天，他其實是要負責確保水門都有關閉的在警報響起時，他卻要往海邊去她的兩個小孩，現在也不小了分別在不同的學校裡其中一個被海水給困住了她花了一個禮拜才都找到他們兩個也才放下心中的大石頭 我把相片交還給她的那天也恰巧是他小兒子的14歲生日對她來說，儘管遇上海嘯這些照片無疑是給兒子最好的生日禮物這是一個他可以回憶的過去而不是只記得3月的那一天他生命裡所有的東西都變了都被摧毀了 在日本待了六個月後有1,100個All Hands志工前來幫忙其中有數百個人一起手動清潔了超過135,000張相片大部分-(掌聲)-重要的是大部分的照片都回到了各個家庭裡有超過500位來自全球的志工幫忙找回和修復數以百計的相片然後將它們發還到90個家庭的手中在這段期間裡我們花在設備上的錢其實不超過1,000元大部分都是花在買墨水 人們一生都在拍照相片可以紀念一個人或一件事一個地方、一段關係和你所愛的人相片就像是我們的記憶庫和歷史是人們逃走時最不可能帶走的但卻是第一個要找回來的東西這就是這個志工計畫的重點我們要找回那微妙的人性然後將它與人們再度連接起來 當這樣的一張相片，能變成這樣對收到相片的人來說非常的有意義 這個計畫也給了修圖師們很大的生活體驗對有些人來說這個計畫讓他們與世界連結利用他們的技能來回饋社會而不是只是瘦巴巴的模特兒和無瑕的皮膚 我想要讀一封郵件來做個總結這是辛蒂，其中一個志工在6個月之後，我回到家時寄給我的 ""當我在幫忙時，我不禁想到照片裡的那些人還有照片裡所描述的故事其中有一張是各個年齡層的女人從老太太到小女孩都有，圍著一個小嬰孩這張相片讓我想起我的家人因為我們家牆上也掛著一幅相片裡頭有我祖母、媽媽、我還有一個新生的小孩不論在世界何處，不論何時我們最基本的需求都是一樣的，不是嗎""謝謝(掌聲)(掌聲)"
