Talk	en	zh-tw
bel_pesce_5_ways_to_kill_your_dreams	"I dedicated the past two years to understanding how people achieve their dreams. When we think about the dreams we have, and the dent we want to leave in the universe, it is striking to see how big of an overlap there is between the dreams that we have, and projects that never happen. (Laughter) So I'm here to talk to you today about five ways how not to follow your dreams. One: Believe in overnight success. You know the story, right? The tech guy built a mobile app and sold it very fast for a lot of money. You know, the story may seem real, but I bet it's incomplete. If you go investigate further, the guy has done 30 apps before and he has done a master's on the topic, a PhD. He has been working on the topic for 20 years. This is really interesting. I myself have a story in Brazil that people think is an overnight success. I come from a humble family, and two weeks before the deadline to apply for MIT, I started the application process. And, voilà! I got in. People may think it's an overnight success, but that only worked because for the 17 years prior to that, I took life and education seriously. Your overnight success story is always a result of everything you've done in your life through that moment. Two: Believe someone else has the answers for you. Constantly, people want to help out, right? All sorts of people: your family, your friends, your business partners, they all have opinions on which path you should take: ""And let me tell you, go through this pipe."" But whenever you go inside, there are other ways you have to pick as well. And you need to make those decisions yourself. No one else has the perfect answers for your life. And you need to keep picking those decisions, right? The pipes are infinite and you're going to bump your head, and it's a part of the process. Three, and it's very subtle but very important: Decide to settle when growth is guaranteed. So when your life is going great, you have put together a great team, and you have growing revenue, and everything is set — time to settle. When I launched my first book, I worked really, really hard to distribute it everywhere in Brazil. With that, over three million people downloaded it, over 50,000 people bought physical copies. When I wrote a sequel, some impact was guaranteed. Even if I did little, sales would be OK. But OK is never OK. When you're growing towards a peak, you need to work harder than ever and find yourself another peak. Maybe if I did little, a couple hundred thousand people would read it, and that's great already. But if I work harder than ever, I can bring this number up to millions. That's why I decided, with my new book, to go to every single state of Brazil. And I can already see a higher peak. There's no time to settle down. Fourth tip, and that's really important: Believe the fault is someone else's. I constantly see people saying, ""Yes, I had this great idea, but no investor had the vision to invest."" ""Oh, I created this great product, but the market is so bad, the sales didn't go well."" Or, ""I can't find good talent; my team is so below expectations."" If you have dreams, it's your responsibility to make them happen. Yes, it may be hard to find talent. Yes, the market may be bad. But if no one invested in your idea, if no one bought your product, for sure, there is something there that is your fault. (Laughter) Definitely. You need to get your dreams and make them happen. And no one achieved their goals alone. But if you didn't make them happen, it's your fault and no one else's. Be responsible for your dreams. And one last tip, and this one is really important as well: Believe that the only things that matter are the dreams themselves. Once I saw an ad, and it was a lot of friends, they were going up a mountain, it was a very high mountain, and it was a lot of work. You could see that they were sweating and this was tough. And they were going up, and they finally made it to the peak. Of course, they decided to celebrate, right? I'm going to celebrate, so, ""Yes! We made it, we're at the top!"" Two seconds later, one looks at the other and says, ""OK, let's go down."" (Laughter) Life is never about the goals themselves. Life is about the journey. Yes, you should enjoy the goals themselves, but people think that you have dreams, and whenever you get to reaching one of those dreams, it's a magical place where happiness will be all around. But achieving a dream is a momentary sensation, and your life is not. The only way to really achieve all of your dreams is to fully enjoy every step of your journey. That's the best way. And your journey is simple — it's made of steps. Some steps will be right on. Sometimes you will trip. If it's right on, celebrate, because some people wait a lot to celebrate. And if you tripped, turn that into something to learn. If every step becomes something to learn or something to celebrate, you will for sure enjoy the journey. So, five tips: Believe in overnight success, believe someone else has the answers for you, believe that when growth is guaranteed, you should settle down, believe the fault is someone else's, and believe that only the goals themselves matter. Believe me, you do that, and you will destroy your dreams. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. Thanks. (Applause)"	在過去兩年中，我致力於了解大家如何達成夢想。當我們思考我們所擁有的夢想，以及我們想要在宇宙中所留下的印記，我們會很驚訝的發現，夢想和未實現的計畫這兩者之間有多雷同。（笑聲）所以我今天在這裡要說的是，五種不追隨你夢想的方法。 第一：相信一夜成功。你一定聽過這樣的故事，對吧？有個玩科技的傢伙做了手機應用程式，然後很快賣掉，賺了一大筆錢。你知道的，這故事聽起來很真實，但我跟你打賭這不是全貌。如果你更深入的去了解的話，你會發現他已經開發三十個應用程式了，並且也得到相關領域的專家及博士頭銜。他在這個領域已經深耕了二十年。 這真的很有意思。我自己本身在巴西就有這樣一個，大家都覺得是一夜成功的故事。我出身於一個卑微的家庭，在麻省理工學院入學申請截止的兩週前，我才開始準備入學申請作業。然後，哇啦！我錄取了。大家可能覺得這就是一夜成功，但這是因為在那之前的十七年中，我都很認真看待生活與教育。這些你們所稱一夜成功的故事，都是你生命中每一刻所付出努力的總和。 第二：認為別人手裡有你要的答案。總是有人熱心於給予幫助，對吧？各種類型的人：你的家人、你的朋友、你的工作夥伴，都對你的下一步有不同的看法：「我跟你說，這條管道才對。」但不管你走哪一條，之後總有更多條路要選擇。而你必須自己去面對這些抉擇。沒有人能給你的人生提供最完美的答案。你需要不斷為自己做出決定，對吧？這些管線永無止盡，你一定會撞到頭，但這都是過程的一部分。 三：這點很微妙，但卻十分重要：在你生活一路平順時安定下來。當你的日子過得很好，你有個很棒的團隊，你的收入穩定成長，一切都很好——是該休息的時候了。我出版第一本書之後，我非常非常努力在巴西的各個角落宣傳。因此，有超過三百萬人下載我的書，五萬人以上買了實體書。當我寫第二本書的時候，我的影響力已經得到了保證。就算我沒做什麼努力，銷售量也不會太差。但只有好是不夠的。當你已經朝著一個巔峰邁進時，你就要更加努力去找尋另一個巔峰。如果我輕鬆面對，或許會有幾十萬人讀這本續作，這樣當然已經很棒了。但如果我付出前所未有的努力，我可以讓這個數字增加到幾百萬以上。這就是為什麼我決定在巴西的每個州都宣傳我的新書。而我已經可以看見另一個更高的巔峰了。從來就沒有時間能夠安定下來。 第四點，這點非常重要：覺得錯誤永遠都是別人造成的。我常常聽到有人說：「是呀，我之前有過這個好點子，但就沒人有遠見要來投資。」「噢，我做了這個很棒的產品，但因為市場環境不好，所以就賣不好。」或是，「我找不到人才，我的團隊太不符合期待了。」如果你有夢想的話，讓它成真是你的責任。沒錯，人才或許難尋。沒錯，市場環境可能不好。但如果沒有人投資你的想法，如果沒有人買你的產品，那肯定有某部分是你的錯。（笑聲）真的。你要去追尋你的夢想並使之成真。而且沒有人只靠自己就完成夢想。但如果你沒有讓夢想實現的話，那絕對不是別人的錯，是你的。要為你的夢想負起責任。 最後一點，這點也非常重要：覺得只有夢想本身最重要。有次我看到一個廣告，裡面有一大群好朋友，他們正要爬山，那是一座很高的山。過程非常辛苦。你可以看見他們流著汗克服那些難關。他們繼續往上爬，最後終於攻上山頂。當然，他們該慶祝吧？於是就開始慶祝了：「耶！我們辦到了！我們攻下這座山了！」兩秒過後，其中一個人看著另一個人，然後說：「好了，我們下山吧。」（笑聲） 人生從來都不是只有目標而已。人生的重點在於旅程。是啊，你當然該享受那些達成目標的時刻，但人們總想像，當你懷抱著夢想，而實現了某一個夢想時，那將會是多神奇而美好的境界，充滿著快樂。但實現夢想只在短暫的一瞬間，而你的生命卻不是。要實現你所有夢想的唯一辦法，就是盡情享受你在旅程中所踏下的每一步。這就是最好的方法了。 你的旅程很簡單──它由你的每一步所組成。有些步伐會走得很順利，有些時候你會被絆倒。如果很順利的話，就慶祝吧，因為有好多人等很久才能慶祝呢。但如果你絆倒了，就將它轉變成為學習的機會。如果你踏出的每一步都變成可以學習與慶祝的事情，你肯定會享受你的旅程。 所以，五點：相信一夜成功、認為別人有你要的答案、在你生活一路平順時安定下來、覺得錯誤永遠都是別人造成的，還有，覺得只有夢想本身才重要。相信我，如果你做了這些事，你就能摧毀你的夢想。（笑聲） （掌聲） 謝謝大家。
