Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_saunders_why_bother_leaving_the_house	"I essentially drag sledges for a living, so it doesn't take an awful lot to flummox me intellectually, but I'm going to read this question from an interview earlier this year: ""Philosophically, does the constant supply of information steal our ability to imagine or replace our dreams of achieving? After all, if it is being done somewhere by someone, and we can participate virtually, then why bother leaving the house?"" I'm usually introduced as a polar explorer. I'm not sure that's the most progressive or 21st-century of job titles, but I've spent more than two percent now of my entire life living in a tent inside the Arctic Circle, so I get out of the house a fair bit. And in my nature, I guess, I am a doer of things more than I am a spectator or a contemplator of things, and it's that dichotomy, the gulf between ideas and action that I'm going to try and explore briefly. The pithiest answer to the question ""why?"" that's been dogging me for the last 12 years was credited certainly to this chap, the rakish-looking gentleman standing at the back, second from the left, George Lee Mallory. Many of you will know his name. In 1924 he was last seen disappearing into the clouds near the summit of Mt. Everest. He may or may not have been the first person to climb Everest, more than 30 years before Edmund Hillary. No one knows if he got to the top. It's still a mystery. But he was credited with coining the phrase, ""Because it's there."" Now I'm not actually sure that he did say that. There's very little evidence to suggest it, but what he did say is actually far nicer, and again, I've printed this. I'm going to read it out. ""The first question which you will ask and which I must try to answer is this: What is the use of climbing Mt. Everest? And my answer must at once be, it is no use. There is not the slightest prospect of any gain whatsoever. Oh, we may learn a little about the behavior of the human body at high altitudes, and possibly medical men may turn our observation to some account for the purposes of aviation, but otherwise nothing will come of it. We shall not bring back a single bit of gold or silver, and not a gem, nor any coal or iron. We shall not find a single foot of earth that can be planted with crops to raise food. So it is no use. If you cannot understand that there is something in man which responds to the challenge of this mountain and goes out to meet it, that the struggle is the struggle of life itself upward and forever upward, then you won't see why we go. What we get from this adventure is just sheer joy, and joy, after all, is the end of life. We don't live to eat and make money. We eat and make money to be able to enjoy life. That is what life means, and that is what life is for."" Mallory's argument that leaving the house, embarking on these grand adventures is joyful and fun, however, doesn't tally that neatly with my own experience. The furthest I've ever got away from my front door was in the spring of 2004. I still don't know exactly what came over me, but my plan was to make a solo and unsupported crossing of the Arctic Ocean. I planned essentially to walk from the north coast of Russia to the North Pole, and then to carry on to the north coast of Canada. No one had ever done this. I was 26 at the time. A lot of experts were saying it was impossible, and my mum certainly wasn't very keen on the idea. (Laughter) The journey from a small weather station on the north coast of Siberia up to my final starting point, the edge of the pack ice, the coast of the Arctic Ocean, took about five hours, and if anyone watched fearless Felix Baumgartner going up, rather than just coming down, you'll appreciate the sense of apprehension, as I sat in a helicopter thundering north, and the sense, I think if anything, of impending doom. I sat there wondering what on Earth I had gotten myself into. There was a bit of fun, a bit of joy. I was 26. I remember sitting there looking down at my sledge. I had my skis ready to go, I had a satellite phone, a pump-action shotgun in case I was attacked by a polar bear. I remember looking out of the window and seeing the second helicopter. We were both thundering through this incredible Siberian dawn, and part of me felt a bit like a cross between Jason Bourne and Wilfred Thesiger. Part of me felt quite proud of myself, but mostly I was just utterly terrified. And that journey lasted 10 weeks, 72 days. I didn't see anyone else. We took this photo next to the helicopter. Beyond that, I didn't see anyone for 10 weeks. The North Pole is slap bang in the middle of the sea, so I'm traveling over the frozen surface of the Arctic Ocean. NASA described conditions that year as the worst since records began. I was dragging 180 kilos of food and fuel and supplies, about 400 pounds. The average temperature for the 10 weeks was minus 35. Minus 50 was the coldest. So again, there wasn't an awful lot of joy or fun to be had. One of the magical things about this journey, however, is that because I'm walking over the sea, over this floating, drifting, shifting crust of ice that's floating on top of the Arctic Ocean is it's an environment that's in a constant state of flux. The ice is always moving, breaking up, drifting around, refreezing, so the scenery that I saw for nearly 3 months was unique to me. No one else will ever, could ever, possibly see the views, the vistas, that I saw for 10 weeks. And that, I guess, is probably the finest argument for leaving the house. I can try to tell you what it was like, but you'll never know what it was like, and the more I try to explain that I felt lonely, I was the only human being in 5.4 million square-miles, it was cold, nearly minus 75 with windchill on a bad day, the more words fall short, and I'm unable to do it justice. And it seems to me, therefore, that the doing, you know, to try to experience, to engage, to endeavor, rather than to watch and to wonder, that's where the real meat of life is to be found, the juice that we can suck out of our hours and days. And I would add a cautionary note here, however. In my experience, there is something addictive about tasting life at the very edge of what's humanly possible. Now I don't just mean in the field of daft macho Edwardian style derring-do, but also in the fields of pancreatic cancer, there is something addictive about this, and in my case, I think polar expeditions are perhaps not that far removed from having a crack habit. I can't explain quite how good it is until you've tried it, but it has the capacity to burn up all the money I can get my hands on, to ruin every relationship I've ever had, so be careful what you wish for. Mallory postulated that there is something in man that responds to the challenge of the mountain, and I wonder if that's the case whether there's something in the challenge itself, in the endeavor, and particularly in the big, unfinished, chunky challenges that face humanity that call out to us, and in my experience that's certainly the case. There is one unfinished challenge that's been calling out to me for most of my adult life. Many of you will know the story. This is a photo of Captain Scott and his team. Scott set out just over a hundred years ago to try to become the first person to reach the South Pole. No one knew what was there. It was utterly unmapped at the time. We knew more about the surface of the moon than we did about the heart of Antarctica. Scott, as many of you will know, was beaten to it by Roald Amundsen and his Norwegian team, who used dogs and dogsleds. Scott's team were on foot, all five of them wearing harnesses and dragging around sledges, and they arrived at the pole to find the Norwegian flag already there, I'd imagine pretty bitter and demoralized. All five of them turned and started walking back to the coast and all five died on that return journey. There is a sort of misconception nowadays that it's all been done in the fields of exploration and adventure. When I talk about Antarctica, people often say, ""Hasn't, you know, that's interesting, hasn't that Blue Peter presenter just done it on a bike?"" Or, ""That's nice. You know, my grandmother's going on a cruise to Antarctica next year. You know. Is there a chance you'll see her there?"" (Laughter) But Scott's journey remains unfinished. No one has ever walked from the very coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again. It is, arguably, the most audacious endeavor of that Edwardian golden age of exploration, and it seemed to me high time, given everything we have figured out in the century since from scurvy to solar panels, that it was high time someone had a go at finishing the job. So that's precisely what I'm setting out to do. This time next year, in October, I'm leading a team of three. It will take us about four months to make this return journey. That's the scale. The red line is obviously halfway to the pole. We have to turn around and come back again. I'm well aware of the irony of telling you that we will be blogging and tweeting. You'll be able to live vicariously and virtually through this journey in a way that no one has ever before. And it'll also be a four-month chance for me to finally come up with a pithy answer to the question, ""Why?"" And our lives today are safer and more comfortable than they have ever been. There certainly isn't much call for explorers nowadays. My career advisor at school never mentioned it as an option. If I wanted to know, for example, how many stars were in the Milky Way, how old those giant heads on Easter Island were, most of you could find that out right now without even standing up. And yet, if I've learned anything in nearly 12 years now of dragging heavy things around cold places, it is that true, real inspiration and growth only comes from adversity and from challenge, from stepping away from what's comfortable and familiar and stepping out into the unknown. In life, we all have tempests to ride and poles to walk to, and I think metaphorically speaking, at least, we could all benefit from getting outside the house a little more often, if only we could summon up the courage. I certainly would implore you to open the door just a little bit and take a look at what's outside. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	基本上我拉雪橇為生所以不需太費心就可以考倒我但我還是要念出今年早些時後的訪談問題「從哲學角度看，源源不絕的資訊會不會偷走我們想像的能力或者取代實現夢想的意願？畢竟，如果有人已完成對某處的探險而且我們能虛擬參與那何必還要離家探險？」 通常人們介紹我是極地探險家我不知道這算不算是最先進、最符合21世紀的工作職稱，但我的確已花了超過百分之二的人生住在北極圈的帳篷裡也就是說我常常離家探險而我猜我的本性是比較偏向做事的人而不是一個旁觀者或是沈思者我想要簡單試著解釋、探索的就是這個把想法與行動分開的隔閡這個二分法 過去12年，「為什麼要離家探險」這個問題一直不斷困擾著我而我能得到的最精闢解答絕對要歸功於這個傢伙這個看起來流裡流氣的紳士站在後排左數第二的那位喬治·馬洛里（George Mallory）各位馬上就會知道他是誰1924年他最後被人目睹消失在靠近聖母峰（珠穆朗瑪峰）峰頂的雲裡很難說他是不是第一個登上聖母峰的人比愛德蒙·希拉瑞（史上記錄第一人）攻頂還早30年沒有人知道他是否登上山頂。這仍是個謎但他的確是說出「因為山就在那裡」這句名言的人我現在也不確定他是否真的說了那句話幾乎沒有什麼證據能證明，但他確實說過的話比那句其實還更好所以又來了，我把它印下來了，所以我要把它念出來 「你會問的第一個問題而我一定要試著回答的，是這個：登上聖母峰有什麼好處？而我當下的回答則是，沒有任何好處這件事沒有任何一點得到好處的展望噢，我們可能會對人體在那樣的高度有什麼反應多一點點瞭解也有可能醫療人員會把我們的觀察轉成對航空有實際價值的東西但在其他方面一點用處也沒有我們不會帶一丁點兒的金或銀回來也不會帶回任何寶石、煤礦或鐵礦我們也不會找到任何一吋土地能種作物以增加糧食。所以這沒有任何好處如果你不能明白人的內心有某種東西會回應這座山的挑戰並且走出去面對它，而這種奮鬥是促使生命永遠不斷向上的奮鬥那麼你不會明白為什麼我們要去我們從這個冒險所能得到的僅是純粹的喜悅而喜悅終究是生命的最終目的我們不是為了吃喝及賺錢活著我們吃喝及賺錢是為了享受生命那是生命的意義，也是生命的目的。」 馬洛里對離家探險的論點是從事這些偉大的冒險既喜悅又有趣但是，這並不完全符合我自己的經驗我離家到過最遠的地方發生在2004年春天。我仍然不明瞭是什麼原因讓我這麼做，但我的計劃是要獨自且不受支援地跨越北冰洋基本上我計劃要徒步從俄羅斯的北海岸走到北極，然後繼續往加拿大北海岸過去從來沒人做過這個。我那時26歲許多專家都說這是不可能的我媽媽當然對這個想法一點也不熱衷（笑聲） 這段從西伯利亞北海岸小氣象站到我最後的出發點的旅程也就是浮冰的邊緣，北冰洋的海岸花了我大約五小時。如果有人看過不怕死的菲利克斯·保加拿（高空跳傘專家）向高空飛升而不是向下跳你就能領悟當我坐在直升機上，向北呼嘯而去時那種憂慮的感覺如果我還能想出什麼好形容，那就是末日臨頭的感覺我坐在那想著，我到底在搞什麼的確是有一點好玩，是有一點快樂我26歲。我記得我坐在那裡低頭看著我的雪橇。我已經準備好了滑雪板我有一只衛星電話，一把滑桿式散彈槍以防萬一我被北極熊攻擊我還記得從窗戶往外看著第二架直升機我們兩架轟隆隆地飛過這奇妙無比的西伯利亞黎明我覺得自己有個部分好像神鬼認證的傑森·包恩及英國探險家威福瑞·塞西格的合體是有一點覺得自傲，但其實我是怕得不得了 那段旅程歷時10週，72天之間我沒有看過任何人。我們在直升機旁照了這張相片除此之外，這10週我沒看到任何人北極就坐落在海洋中間所以我走在表層冰凍的北冰洋上美國國家航空暨太空總署形容那年的天候是有史以來最糟我拖著180公斤的食物、燃油及補給品大約是400磅。那十週的平均溫度是零下35度，最冷的時候是零下50度所以再說一次，這真的沒甚麼喜悅，也不怎麼好玩 但在這旅程中最令人驚奇的就是因為我是走在海上走在漂搖不定、處處移動的大冰塊上漂浮在北冰洋面上的冰是不穩定狀態的環境冰塊永遠在移動、破裂、四處漂流再結凍，所以我在這近3個月所看到的景象對我是非常特別的。再沒有人能有機會看到我在這10週內看到的風景、景色而我猜這可能是離家探險最有力的論點我可以試著描述它像什麼但你永遠不會真正明白那到底是什麼樣子而且我愈試著解釋當時的孤獨540萬平方英哩只有我一個人真的好冷，很慘的日子裡風寒指數是零下75度就愈發現再多的言語也不能形容，而我也不知道該如何說的明白因此我是這樣看的，身體力行你知道的，去試著體驗、參與冒險而不只是旁觀及猜想，才是找到生命的重點的方法從漫漫人生中榨出的精華不過我還是要在這裡加上幾點注意事項依我的經驗，去嘗試人力所能及的極限存在着一些非常容易上癮的東西我不單指那種愛德華時代風充滿男子氣概又有點蠢的非凡大冒險同時也指像是得了胰腺癌那樣這裡面的確有些東西會使人上癮，以我為例我認為極地探險跟毒癮也相差不遠我無法解釋這有多美好，直到你親自嘗試而它也有辦法燒掉你手上所有的錢破壞你所有的人際關係所以許願要小心 馬洛里認為在人的內心有些東西會回應山峰發出的挑戰而我不知道是否真的有東西在挑戰本身裡、在冒險裡呼喚著我們，特別是在那些很大、尚未完成、非常困難，迫使我們面對人性的挑戰裡。而以我的經驗那的確是如此我有一件尚未完成的挑戰在我大部份的成人歲月裡呼喚著我 在座各位很快會知道這個故事這是英國極地探險家斯科特隊長及其隊員的照片斯科特在一百多年前出發，嘗試要成為第一個抵達南極的人沒有人知道那裡有什麼。那時地圖上完全沒有這個點。我們對月球表面的瞭解多過我們對南極洲的瞭解很多人都知道，斯科特其實是被挪威人羅爾德·亞孟及其團隊打敗亞孟一行人使用雪橇犬及狗用雪橇斯科特的團隊採用步行這五人隊伍全副武裝以人力拉雪橇當他們到達南極時，發現挪威旗已經插在那兒我可以想像那種苦澀與沮喪這五人團隊於是回頭開始走回海岸營地而這五人在回程中全部喪生 現今人們有種誤解，就是在探索及冒險這個領域，該做的都做完了當我講起南極洲，大家都說「你知道，是很有趣，但是那個藍色彼得（英國兒童節目）主持人不是已經騎單車完成了嗎？」或說「很好，很好，你知道我祖母明年要搭郵輪去南極，你知道的。你有機會在那邊見見她嗎？」（笑聲） 但斯科特的旅程依然未完成沒有人真正全程走完從南極洲海岸到南極再返回的路程這真可說是，最具愛德華時代探險金色年華風格的大膽奮進冒險對我而言這也是最佳時期，想想在過去這個世紀我們已經搞懂的一切從壞血病治療到太陽能板。的確時機已經成熟該是有人去完成這項工作的時候所以這就是我要出發去做的事 明年這個時候，十月份，我要帶一個三人團隊我們這會花大約四個月的時間來完成這項旅程那是探險圖。紅色線很明顯就是到南極的半程我們到達後必須回轉再返回出發地我很瞭解，說我們會寫部落格及推文聽起來非常諷刺。你們可以用前所未有的方式間接、虛擬參與這次冒險旅程這也給我四個月的機會，能敲定一個精闢的答案來回答那個「為什麼」 我們今日的生活比起以前更安全更舒適。已經沒有太多地方呼喚我們去探險了。我學校裡的職業顧問從來也沒提過這個選擇假使我想知道，舉個例子在銀河裡有多少星星復活節島上的巨石像有多古老在座的多數可以現在就找到答案甚至不用站起來但是，如果說我在過去12年裡從在寒冷的地方拉重物學到了什麼那就是又真又活的啟示及成長只能從逆境及挑戰中獲得要離開自己舒適又熟悉的空間進入未知的領域才能獲得我們的生命裡都有必須克服的風暴及要到達的目標而我想，象徵性地說，至少我們大家都能從多一點的離家冒險得到好處只要我們能鼓起一點勇氣我當然會懇請各位把大門打開一點點看看外面的世界有什麼謝謝（掌聲）
