Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_ambridge_10_myths_about_psychology_debunked	"You've heard of your I.Q., your general intelligence, but what's your Psy-Q? How much do you know about what makes you tick, and how good are you at predicting other people's behavior or even your own? And how much of what you think you know about psychology is wrong? Let's find out by counting down the top 10 myths of psychology. You've probably heard it said that when it comes to their psychology, it's almost as if men are from Mars and women are from Venus. But how different are men and women really? To find out, let's start by looking at something on which men and women really do differ and plotting some psychological gender differences on the same scale. One thing men and women do really differ on is how far they can throw a ball. So if we look at the data for men here, we see what is called a normal distribution curve. A few men can throw a ball really far, and a few men not far at all, but most a kind of average distance. And women share the same distribution as well, but actually there's quite a big difference. In fact, the average man can throw a ball further than about 98 percent of all women. So now let's look at what some psychological gender differences look like on the same standardized scale. Any psychologist will tell you that men are better at spatial awareness than women — so things like map-reading,  for example — and it's true, but let's have a look at the size of this difference. It's tiny; the lines are so close together they almost overlap. In fact, the average woman is better than 33 percent of all men, and of course, if that was 50 percent, then the two genders would be exactly equal. It's worth bearing in mind that this difference and the next one I'll show you are pretty much the biggest psychological gender differences ever discovered in psychology. So here's the next one. Any psychologist will tell you that women are better with language and grammar than men. So here's performance on the standardized grammar test. There go the women. There go the men. Again, yes, women are better on average, but the lines are so close that 33 percent of men are better than the average woman, and again, if it was 50 percent, that would represent complete gender equality. So it's not really a case of Mars and Venus. It's more a case of, if anything, Mars and Snickers: basically the same, but one's maybe  slightly nuttier than the other. I won't say which. Now we've got you warmed up. Let's psychoanalyze you using the famous Rorschach inkblot test. So you can probably see two, I dunno, two bears or two people or something. But what do you think they're doing? Put your hand up if you think they're saying hello. Not many people. Okay. Put your hands up if you think they are high-fiving. Okay. What if you think they're fighting? Only a few people there. Okay, so if you think they're saying hello or high-fiving, then that means you're a friendly person. If you think they're fighting, you're a bit more of a  nasty, aggressive person. Are you a lover or a fighter, basically. What about this one? This isn't really a voting one, so on  three everyone shout out what you see. One, two, three. (Audience shouting) I heard hamster. Who said hamster? That was very worrying. A guy there said hamster. Well, you should see some kind of two-legged animal here, and then the mirror image of them there. If you didn't, then this means that you have difficulty processing complex situations where there's a lot going on. Except, of course, it doesn't mean that at all. Rorschach inkblot tests have basically no validity when it comes to diagnosing people's personality and are not used by modern-day psychologists. In fact, one recent study found that when you do try to diagnose people's personalities using Rorschach inkblot tests, schizophrenia was diagnosed in about one sixth of apparently perfectly normal participants. So if you didn't do that well on this, maybe you are not a very visual type of person. So let's do another quick quiz to find out. When making a cake, do you prefer to — so hands up for each one again — do you prefer to use a recipe book with pictures? Yeah, a few people. Have a friend talk you through? Or have a go, making it up as you go along? Quite a few people there. Okay, so if you said A, then this means that you are a visual learner and you learn best when information is presented in a visual style. If you said B, it means you're an auditory learner, that you learn best when information is presented to you in an auditory format. And if you said C, it means that you're a kinesthetic learner, that you learn best when you get stuck in and do things with your hands. Except, of course, as you've probably guessed, that it doesn't, because the whole thing is a complete myth. Learning styles are made up and are  not supported by scientific evidence. So we know this because in tightly controlled experimental studies, when learners are given material to learn either in their preferred style or an opposite style, it makes no difference at all to the amount of information that they retain. And if you think about it for just a second, it's just obvious that this has to be true. It's obvious that the best presentation format depends not on you, but on what you're trying to learn. Could you learn to drive a car, for example, just by listening to someone telling you what to do with no kinesthetic experience? Could you solve simultaneous equations by talking them through in your head and without writing them down? Could you revise  for your architecture exams using interpretive dance if you're a kinesthetic learner? No. What you need to do  is match the material to be learned to the presentation format, not you. I know many of you are A-level students that will have recently gotten your GCSE results. And if you didn't quite get what you were hoping for, then you can't really blame your learning style, but one thing that you might want to think about blaming is your genes. So what this is all about is a recent study at University College London found that 58 percent of the variation between different students and their GCSE results was down to genetic factors. That sounds like a very precise figure, so how can we tell? Well, when we want to unpack the relative contributions of genes and the environment, what we can do is do a twin study. So identical twins share 100 percent of their environment and 100 percent of their genes, whereas non-identical twins share 100 percent of their environment, but just like any brother and sister, share only 50 percent of their genes. So by comparing how similar GCSE results are in identical twins versus non-identical twins, and doing some clever math, we can an idea of how much variation and performance is due to the environment and how much is due to genes. And it turns out that it's about 58 percent due to genes. So this isn't to undermine the hard work that you and your teachers here put in. If you didn't quite get the GCSE results that you were hoping for, then you can always try blaming your parents, or at least their genes. One thing that you shouldn't blame is being a left-brained or right-brained learner, because again, this is a myth. So the myth here is that the left brain is logical, it's good with equations like this, and the right brain is more creative, so the right brain is better at music. But again, this is a myth because nearly everything that you do involves nearly all parts of your brain talking together, even just the most mundane thing like having a normal conversation. However, perhaps one reason why this myth has survived is that there is a slight grain of truth to it. So a related version of the myth is that left-handed people are more creative than right-handed people, which kind of makes sense because your brain controls the opposite hands, so left-handed people, the right side of the brain is slightly more active than the left-hand side of the brain, and the idea is the right-hand side is more creative. Now, it isn't true per se that left-handed people are more creative than right-handed people. What is true that ambidextrous people, or people who use both hands for different tasks, are more creative thinkers than one-handed people, because being ambidextrous involves having both sides of the brain talk to each other a lot, which seems to be involved in creating flexible thinking. The myth of the creative left-hander arises from the fact that being ambidextrous is more common amongst  left-handers than right-handers, so a grain of truth in the idea of the creative left-hander, but not much. A related myth that you've probably heard of is that we only use 10 percent of our brains. This is, again, a complete myth. Nearly everything that we do, even the most mundane thing, uses nearly all of our brains. That said, it is of course true that most of us don't use our brainpower quite as well as we could. So what could we do to boost our brainpower? Maybe we could listen to a nice bit of Mozart. Have you heard of the idea of the Mozart effect? So the idea is that listening  to Mozart makes you smarter and improves your  performance on I.Q. tests. Now again, what's interesting about this myth is that although it's basically a myth, there is a grain of truth to it. So the original study found that participants who were played Mozart music for a few minutes did better on a subsequent I.Q. test than participants who simply sat in silence. But a follow-up study recruited some people who liked Mozart music and then another group of people who were fans of  the horror stories of Stephen King. And they played the people the music or the stories. The people who preferred Mozart music to the stories got a bigger I.Q. boost from the Mozart than the stories, but the people who preferred the stories to the Mozart music got a bigger I.Q. boost from listening to the Stephen King stories than the Mozart music. So the truth is that listening to something that you enjoy perks you up a bit and gives you a temporary I.Q. boost on a narrow range of tasks. There's no suggestion that listening to Mozart, or indeed Stephen King stories, is going to make you any smarter in the long run. Another version of the Mozart myth is that listening to Mozart can make you not only cleverer but healthier, too. Unfortunately, this doesn't seem to be true of someone who listened to the music of Mozart almost every day, Mozart himself, who suffered from gonorrhea, smallpox, arthritis, and, what most people think eventually killed him in the end, syphilis. This suggests that Mozart should have bit more careful, perhaps, when choosing his sexual partners. But how do we choose a partner? So a myth that I have to say is sometimes spread a bit by sociologists is that our preferences in a romantic  partner are a product of our culture, that they're very culturally specific. But in fact, the data don't back this up. A famous study surveyed people from [37] different cultures across the globe, from Americans to Zulus, on what they look for in a partner. And in every single culture across the globe, men placed more value on physical attractiveness in a partner than did women, and in every single culture, too, women placed more importance than did men on ambition and high earning power. In every culture, too, men preferred women who were younger than themselves, an average of, I think it was 2.66 years, and in every culture, too, women preferred men who were older than them, so an average of 3.42 years, which is why we've got here ""Everybody needs a Sugar Daddy."" So moving on from trying to score with a partner to trying to score in basketball or football or whatever your sport is. The myth here is that sportsmen go through hot-hand streaks, Americans call them, or purple patches, we sometimes say in England, where they just can't miss, like this guy here. But in fact, what happens is that if you analyze the pattern of hits and misses statistically, it turns out that it's nearly always at random. Your brain creates patterns from the randomness. If you toss a coin, a streak of heads or tails is going  to come out somewhere in the randomness, and because the brain likes to see patterns where there are none, we look at these streaks and attribute meanings to them and say, ""Yeah he's really on form today,"" whereas actually you would get the same pattern if you were just getting hits and misses at random. So an exception to this, however, is penalty shootouts. A recent study looking at penalty shootouts in football shows that players who represent countries with a very bad record in penalty shootouts, like, for example, England, tend to be quicker to take their shots than countries with a better record, and presumably as a result, they're more likely to miss. Which raises the question of if there's any way that we could improve people's performance. And one thing you might think about doing is punishing people for their misses and seeing if that improves them. This idea, the effect that punishment can improve performance, is what participants thought they were testing in Milgram's famous learning and punishment experiment that you've probably heard about if you're a psychology student. The story goes that participants were prepared to give what they believed to be fatal electric shocks to a fellow participant when they got a question wrong, just because someone in a white coat told them to. But this story is a myth for three reasons. Firstly and most crucially, the lab coat wasn't white, it was in fact grey. Secondly, the participants were told before the study and reminded any time they raised a concern, that although the shocks were painful, they were not fatal and indeed caused no permanent damage whatsoever. And thirdly, participants didn't give the shocks just because someone in the coat told them to. When they were interviewed after the study, all the participants said that they firmly believed that the learning and punishment study served a worthy scientific purpose which would have enduring gains for science as opposed to the momentary nonfatal discomfort caused to the participants. Okay, so I've been talking for about 12 minutes now, and you've probably been  sitting there listening to me, analyzing my speech patterns  and body language and trying to work out if you should take any notice of what I'm saying, whether I'm telling the truth or whether I'm lying, but if so you've probably completely failed, because although we all think we can catch a liar from their body language and speech patterns, hundreds of psychological tests over the years have shown that all of us, including police officers and detectives, are basically at chance when it comes to detecting lies from body language and verbal patterns. Interestingly, there is one exception: TV appeals for missing relatives. It's quite easy to predict when the relatives are missing and when the appealers have in fact murdered the relatives themselves. So hoax appealers are more likely to shake their heads, to look away, and to make errors in their speech, whereas genuine appealers are more likely to express hope that the person will return safely and to avoid brutal language. So, for example, they might say ""taken from us"" rather than ""killed."" Speaking of which, it's about time I killed this talk, but before I do, I just want  to give you in 30 seconds the overarching myth of psychology. So the myth is that psychology is just a collection of interesting theories, all of which say something useful and all of which have something to offer. What I hope to have shown you in the past few minutes is that this isn't true. What we need to do is assess psychological theories by seeing what predictions they make, whether that is that listening to Mozart makes you smarter, that you learn better when information is presented in your preferred learning style or whatever it is, all of these are testable empirical predictions, and the only way we can make progress is to test these predictions against the data in tightly controlled experimental studies. And it's only by doing so that we can hope to discover which of these theories are well supported, and which, like all the ones I've told you about today, are myths. Thank you. (Applause)"	你們都聽過I.Q.這個詞，就是所謂的智商。但，你的Psy-Q（心理智商）呢？你對於成就你的事物了解多少？而你又多擅長去預測別人的行為？甚至說你自己的行為？你認為你所瞭解的心理學，有多少是錯誤的呢？就讓我們一起來倒數揭露這心理學上的十大迷思。 當人們在提及心理學時，你或許曾經聽他們說過：這就像是男人從火星來，女人從金星來。但是，男性和女性之間究竟真的差多少呢？為了找到真相，我們就來看看這些男性和女性有所不同的事物，並且在同規模的圖表上畫出兩性的差異線。男性與女性有差異的事情之一，是能夠把球丟得多遠。讓我們來看看這個關於男性的資料，我們現在看到的這個就是所謂的常態分配曲線。少數的男性可以將球丟得非常遠，另外少數的男性則丟不遠，但大部分的男性都丟在一個平均距離中。而女性也相同的呈現了常態分配曲線。但我們可以看到這裡出現了一個蠻大的差異。事實上，大部份的男性都可以把球丟得比98％的女性還要來得更遠。那麼我們現在來看看在相同標準規模上的一些心理性別差異。不論哪個心理學家都會告訴你，男性的空間感比女性還要更好，像是地圖識讀的能力而這是真的，但讓我們來看看這個兩性差異的大小。我們能看到差異是非常小的。這兩條曲線非常靠近，近乎重疊。事實上，平均的女性還比33％的男性更好，當然，如果說這個數值是50％的話，兩個性別就並沒有任何差異了。我想這個差異會是值得被記住的。而接下來我將要給你看的，差不多是心理學史上所發現，心理性別差異最大的例子。就讓我們來看下一個例子：任何一個心理學家都會告訴你，女性的語言和語法能力比男性還要好。這表現在標準語法測驗上。這是女性的，這是男性的。沒有錯，女性平均上是比男性還要好，但是兩條曲線也非常的相近。還有33％的男性比起一般的女性還要好。再一次的，如果這個值是50％的話，那這兩個性別就會是相同的了。所以說，這並不是真的像火星人與金星人那樣。而比較像是其他的東西，例如巧克力棒Mars和巧克力棒Snikers：他們基本上是相同的，但一種可能比另一種含有更多果仁。我不會告訴你是哪一種。 現在，你們都準備好了。我們就來用著名的羅夏克墨跡測驗來做個心理分析。現在你大概可以看到兩個，我不知道，也許是兩隻熊、兩個人或其它什麼東西。但你覺得他們在做什麼？舉手，如果你覺得他們在對彼此打招呼。好，沒有很多人。如果你覺得他們在擊掌，請舉手。好。有沒有覺得他們在打架的？只有幾個人。好的，所以說如果你覺得他們在打招呼或擊掌的話，就代表你是一個友善的人。如果你覺得他們在打架的話，代表你是一個讓人感覺不舒服、具有攻擊性的人。就看你基本上是個和平者或是個鬥士。那這個呢？這不是個需要投票的項目，所以我數到三的時候喊出你看到的東西。一、二、三。（觀眾的喊聲）我聽到有人說倉鼠，是誰說的？真是令人擔心。那裡有個傢伙說倉鼠。你應該會看到畫面上有某種雙足動物，並且它的寫照圖像在另一邊。如果你沒有看見的話，代表你有困難去處理很多同時發生的複雜情況。 除了，當然，這根本就不是那個意思。羅夏克墨跡測驗基本上在分辨人們的個性上，是沒有準確度的。現代的心理學家也並沒有採用這套方法。事實上，最近一個研究發現當你嘗試用羅夏克墨跡測驗去診斷人們的個性時，在明顯完全正常的參與者中大約有六分之一的人，被診斷出精神分裂症。 所以如果你在這個測驗上沒有做好的話，或許只是代表你不是一個視覺型的人。那讓我們再來做一個快速的小測驗。你在做蛋糕的時候，你比較喜歡……請你們舉手回答——你比較喜歡使用帶有圖片的食譜嗎？嗯，少數一些人。讓朋友講給你聽嗎？或是就自己試著動手做做看？只有一些些人。好的，所以如果你選A，代表你是一個視覺的學習者，當資訊以視覺的方式呈現時，你能夠得到最佳的吸收與學習。如果你說B，代表著你屬於聽覺的學習者，當資訊以聽覺的方式呈現時，你才會獲得較好的吸收與學習。而如果你選C，就代表你屬於動覺的學習者。在你自己動手實際去做時，你吸收和學習得最快。 除了說，當然，你可能已經猜到了，這些都不對，因為這整件事情都是個迷思。這些學習方式都是被捏造出來的，並沒有任何科學證據去支持它們。我們知道這些，是因為我們進行了嚴謹的研究，我們給這些受試者材料讓他們去學習，材料分成了他們喜歡的學習方式，以及他們不喜歡的學習方式。結果是，不管哪種學習方式，他們所記住的資訊量都是一樣的。你稍微用個幾秒思考一下，就會發現這是很明顯的事實。顯然的，最好的學習模式並不是是取決於你自己，而是取決於你所學習的東西。舉個例子吧，你能夠只透過聽別人說來學怎麼開車嗎？沒有動覺經驗的話，可能嗎？在解聯立方程式的時候，你能夠只用腦袋來計算而不用紙筆來輔助嗎？你能夠用跳舞來復習你的建築學考試，只因為你是一個動覺的學習者嗎？不行啊。你要做的是，將所有要學習的資料和適當的學習方法連繫起來，而不只是你。 我知道你們之中有許多A級水準的學生，最近才剛拿到你的GCSE（中等教育普通證書）的結果。如果你並沒有得到你所預期的成果的話，你真的不能去責怪你的學習方式，但你或許可以考慮去責怪你的基因。這是倫敦大學學院最近所做的一項研究，他們發現在不同學生和他們的GCSE結果之間，有58％的差異性是來自於基因遺傳。這聽起來是一個很精確的數字，那麼我們是怎麼確定的呢？是這樣的，當我們想要解開關於基因與環境的相對作用，我們可以做雙胞胎研究。所以說，同卵雙胞胎有著100％相同的環境，以及100％相同的基因。然異卵雙胞胎也有著100％相同的環境，但就像任何的兄弟姐妹一樣，他們只有50％相同的基因。那麼，經由比較同卵雙胞胎與異卵雙胞胎的GCSE成績，再做一點聰明的數學之後，我們就可以知道有多少表現和差異性是來自於環境，而多少是源自於基因的關係。結果證明，58％的比例是因為基因。這並不是要推翻你和老師們的辛苦付出，但是如果你沒有得到你所預期的GCSE結果，那麼你可以隨時嘗試著去責怪你的父母，或至少他們的基因。 有件你不應該去歸咎的事情，是關於左腦學習者或右腦學習者，因為，一樣的，這是個迷思。這個迷思說，左腦是理性的，它擅於解方程式，而右腦是創意的，它在音樂等方面表現得更佳。但這仍然是個迷思，因為幾乎你做的每件事情都要你大腦的所有部位互相溝通聯繫，就算是最乏味的日常對話都是如此。然而這迷思至今仍存在，或許有一個原因，就是因為這裡面包含著小部份的事實。這迷思的另一個版本，是說左撇子的人比起右撇子的人更有創造力，這種說法有點道理，因為你的大腦是控制的是相反的手，所以左撇子的人，他的右腦比起右撇子的人，會稍微更加活絡一點，我們的觀念是右腦會更加有創造力。但這個左撇子比右撇子還要有創造力的觀念，就其本身而言就是錯誤的。事實上是雙手都靈巧的人，或可以兩手同時處理不同事情的人，比單手使用者更具有創意，因為雙手使用者的大腦兩側需要大量的互動與溝通，這與創造靈活的思考有所相關。左撇子較有創意的迷思，是從左撇子比右撇子有更多人能善用雙手的這項事實中所產生出來的，所以說左撇子比較善於創造的這個說法是有一點真實性的，但只有一點而已。 另一個相關的迷思，你或許聽過，是我們只有用到大腦10％的這件事。這一樣的也是完全的迷思。我們所做的每件事情，就算是最無聊的小事，都要用到幾乎整個大腦。 但的確，我們大多數的人不能有效的去運用我們的大腦。那我們該怎麼提升我們的腦力呢？或許我們可以聽一段莫札特的音樂。你聽過莫札特效應嗎？有一個觀念是，聽莫札特的音樂會使你變聰明，而且會提升智力測驗的表現。這個迷思的有趣之處也是在於它有一點的事實存在其中。原先的研究是發現，聽了幾分鐘莫札特音樂的受試者，在智力測驗中，表現得比只是靜默著坐著的受試者還要好。但一項後續研究招募了一些喜歡莫札特音樂的人，以及另外一群喜歡史蒂芬．金恐怖小說的人。然後他們給這些受試者們聽音樂或聽恐怖故事。更喜歡聽莫札特音樂的人比聽故事的人，從莫札特音樂中，得到更大量的智力增長，但對於更喜歡聽故事的人來說，他們反而在恐怖故事中，得到更大量的智力增長，而對莫札特音樂反應較小。事實是，當你在聽你享受的東西時，這些東西會使你振作一點，且給你在有限範圍的短暫智力增長。所以如果你想藉由聽莫札特音樂，或當然，聽史蒂芬．金的故事，來使你長期變得更聰明，那都是不可能的事。 另一個關於莫札特迷思的版本，是說莫札特的音樂不只是能讓你變聰明，更能夠使你健康。可惜這對於幾乎每天聽莫札特音樂的人來說，都不是真的。莫札特他自己，就飽受著疾病的折磨，其中包含著淋病、天花、關節炎以及人們認為最終致他於死的梅毒。這表示，也許莫札特在選擇他的性伴侶時應該要更小心。但是，我們該如何選擇另一半呢？ 有一個迷思，偶爾會被社會學家散播，那就是我們對於戀人的選擇與偏愛是一種文化下的產物。他們說這都是具有文化特定性的。但事實上，數據並不支持這個說法。有一個知名的研究，測試了來自全球三十七個不同文化的人，從美國人到南非祖魯人都有，關於他們如何擇偶。而全世界每個文化都一樣，男性較重視另一半的身材吸引力，女性則相對較不重視，每個文化皆相同，女性比男性更重視另一半的野心以及賺錢的能力。每個文化皆同，男性比較喜歡比自己年紀小的女性，我想平均大約在2.66歲左右，仍是每一個文化皆同，女性都偏好比自己年長的男性，這邊平均是3.42歲，所以我們明白了：「每個人都需要個糖爸爸。」 我們就從伴侶的話題轉移到，如何在籃球或足球等運動得分的這個話題吧。這個迷思是說，運動員會經歷一個美國人稱為熱手時期，或英國人所稱的紫色時期，像這傢伙一樣，在球場上他們不能錯過。但如果你分析這個模式，這些成功和失敗的統計，你會發現這幾乎都是隨機的。你的大腦會從這些隨機的事件中創造出一套模式。如果你丟一枚硬幣，會隨機出現正面和反面兩種可能，而因為你的大腦喜歡從一無所有的地方裡找出模式來，所以我們就替這些隨機事件加上意義，然後說：「是啊，他今天狀況真好！」雖然你在完全隨機的好球和壞球中，還是會得到一套相同的模式與結論。 但罰球點是例外，最近有一個關於足球中罰球點的研究，發現那些代表國家的球員有一個罰球的紀錄很糟糕的，例如，英國，會比表現好的國家更快去射門，但大概就是因為這樣，所以他們也比較容易失誤。 所以就出現了這個疑問，有沒有什麼方法可以使我們提升我們的表現呢？你可能會做一個決定，就是去懲罰那些失誤的人，看會不會有所改進。這個關於懲罰可以提升表現的想法，是著名的米爾格倫實驗中，受試者們認為他們正在被實驗。如果你是一個心理系學生的話你應該已經聽過這個了。故事裡，參與者要準備給其他的受試者他們認為是致命的電擊。而受試者相信這樣的電擊是會致命的。只因為一個穿著白袍的人告訴他們會這樣。 但這故事是一個迷思，這裡有三個原因。第一個也是最關鍵的是，實驗室的外套不是白色而是灰色的。第二，受試者們在研究之前就被告知，並在實驗中也一直被提醒，雖然電擊是疼痛的，但並不會致命，當然也不會造成任何的永久性傷害。再來第三個是，參與者們並不只是因為穿著白袍的人給予指令而電擊的。實驗結束採訪他們的時候，所有的參與者都說，他們堅定的相信這個關於學習與懲罰的研究，是很有價值的，相對於給予暫時性非致命的不適感，他們更相信這在科學領域會有長遠的收穫。 是的，所以我已經講了大概有十二分鐘了，你可能坐在那裏聽我說話，分析我的演講模式和肢體語言，且試圖去分辨我所說的，究竟是實話或謊話，如果你正這樣做的話，你大概已經失敗了，因為雖然我們都認為我們能夠透過肢體語言和說話模式來找出騙子，但幾年下來有數百個心理學研究，都發現我們全部的人，包含警察和偵探，在透過身體語言和言語模式來分辨人時，都只是靠著運氣而已。有趣的是有一個例外：電視上有人呼籲失蹤的親友時，我們很容易判斷出該親友是真的失蹤了，或是發出通知的人謀殺了他。說謊的呼籲者可能會搖頭、望向別處，且會製造錯誤的言論，相反的，真正的呼籲者通常表達對失蹤的親友安全返回的希望，會避免用任何殘忍的語言。舉例來說，比起「被殺」這個詞，他們會說「把他從我們身邊帶走」。 說到這裡，也差不多是我該結束的時間了，但在那之前，我想要用三十秒來談，關於心理學總體的一個迷思。這個迷思說，心理學只是一些有趣理論的組合，只是一些說來實用的和能夠提供的東西而已。在過去的幾分鐘內，我希望我已經讓你知道這不是真的。我們需要做的是，藉由所做的預測，重新評價這些心理學理論的價值，不管是讓你變聰明的莫札特音樂，或使你學得更好的學習模式，還是些其他的什麼，這都只是可受檢驗的經驗上的說法，所以我們唯一可以做的是，在嚴謹控制的研究中，用數據去檢驗這些說法。也只有透過這樣的做法，我們才能發現，哪一些理論是被支持的，而哪一些，像是我今天所告訴你的，是錯誤的迷思。 謝謝大家。 （觀眾鼓掌）
