Talk	en	zh-tw
bernie_krause_the_voice_of_the_natural_world	"(Nature sounds) When I first began recording wild soundscapes 45 years ago, I had no idea that ants, insect larvae, sea anemones and viruses created a sound signature. But they do. And so does every wild habitat on the planet, like the Amazon rainforest you're hearing behind me. In fact, temperate and tropical rainforests each produce a vibrant animal orchestra, that instantaneous and organized expression of insects, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals. And every soundscape that springs from a wild habitat generates its own unique signature, one that contains incredible amounts of information, and it's some of that information I want to share with you today. The soundscape is made up of three basic sources. The first is the geophony, or the nonbiological sounds that occur in any given habitat, like wind in the trees, water in a stream, waves at the ocean shore, movement of the Earth. The second of these is the biophony. The biophony is all of the sound that's generated by organisms in a given habitat at one time and in one place. And the third is all of the sound that we humans generate that's called anthrophony. Some of it is controlled, like music or theater, but most of it is chaotic and incoherent, which some of us refer to as noise. There was a time when I considered wild soundscapes to be a worthless artifact. They were just there, but they had no significance. Well, I was wrong. What I learned from these encounters was that careful listening gives us incredibly valuable tools by which to evaluate the health of a habitat across the entire spectrum of life. When I began recording in the late '60s, the typical methods of recording were limited to the fragmented capture of individual species like birds mostly, in the beginning, but later animals like mammals and amphibians. To me, this was a little like trying to understand the magnificence of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony by abstracting the sound of a single violin player out of the context of the orchestra and hearing just that one part. Fortunately, more and more institutions are implementing the more holistic models that I and a few of my colleagues have introduced to the field of soundscape ecology. When I began recording over four decades ago, I could record for 10 hours and capture one hour of usable material, good enough for an album or a film soundtrack or a museum installation. Now, because of global warming, resource extraction, and human noise, among many other factors, it can take up to 1,000 hours or more to capture the same thing. Fully 50 percent of my archive comes from habitats so radically altered that they're either altogether silent or can no longer be heard in any of their original form. The usual methods of evaluating a habitat have been done by visually counting the numbers of species and the numbers of individuals within each species in a given area. However, by comparing data that ties together both density and diversity from what we hear, I'm able to arrive at much more precise fitness outcomes. And I want to show you some examples that typify the possibilities unlocked by diving into this universe. This is Lincoln Meadow. Lincoln Meadow's a three-and-a-half-hour drive east of San Francisco in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, at about 2,000 meters altitude, and I've been recording there for many years. In 1988, a logging company convinced local residents that there would be absolutely no environmental impact from a new method they were trying called ""selective logging,"" taking out a tree here and there rather than clear-cutting a whole area. With permission granted to record both before and after the operation, I set up my gear and captured a large number of dawn choruses to very strict protocol and calibrated recordings, because I wanted a really good baseline. This is an example of a spectrogram. A spectrogram is a graphic illustration of sound with time from left to right across the page — 15 seconds in this case is represented — and frequency from the bottom of the page to the top, lowest to highest. And you can see that the signature of a stream is represented here in the bottom third or half of the page, while birds that were once in that meadow are represented in the signature across the top. There were a lot of them. And here's Lincoln Meadow before selective logging. (Nature sounds) Well, a year later I returned, and using the same protocols and recording under the same conditions, I recorded a number of examples of the same dawn choruses, and now this is what we've got. This is after selective logging. You can see that the stream is still represented in the bottom third of the page, but notice what's missing in the top two thirds. (Nature sounds) Coming up is the sound of a woodpecker. Well, I've returned to Lincoln Meadow 15 times in the last 25 years, and I can tell you that the biophony, the density and diversity of that biophony, has not yet returned to anything like it was before the operation. But here's a picture of Lincoln Meadow taken after, and you can see that from the perspective of the camera or the human eye, hardly a stick or a tree appears to be out of place, which would confirm the logging company's contention that there's nothing of environmental impact. However, our ears tell us a very different story. Young students are always asking me what these animals are saying, and really I've got no idea. But I can tell you that they do express themselves. Whether or not we understand it is a different story. I was walking along the shore in Alaska, and I came across this tide pool filled with a colony of sea anemones, these wonderful eating machines, relatives of coral and jellyfish. And curious to see if any of them made any noise, I dropped a hydrophone, an underwater microphone covered in rubber, down the mouth part, and immediately the critter began to absorb the microphone into its belly, and the tentacles were searching out of the surface for something of nutritional value. The static-like sounds that are very low, that you're going to hear right now. (Static sounds) Yeah, but watch. When it didn't find anything to eat — (Honking sound) (Laughter) I think that's an expression that can be understood in any language. (Laughter) At the end of its breeding cycle, the Great Basin Spadefoot toad digs itself down about a meter under the hard-panned desert soil of the American West, where it can stay for many seasons until conditions are just right for it to emerge again. And when there's enough moisture in the soil in the spring, frogs will dig themselves to the surface and gather around these large, vernal pools in great numbers. And they vocalize in a chorus that's absolutely in sync with one another. And they do that for two reasons. The first is competitive, because they're looking for mates, and the second is cooperative, because if they're all vocalizing in sync together, it makes it really difficult for predators like coyotes, foxes and owls to single out any individual for a meal. This is a spectrogram of what the frog chorusing looks like when it's in a very healthy pattern. (Frogs croaking) Mono Lake is just to the east of Yosemite National Park in California, and it's a favorite habitat of these toads, and it's also favored by U.S. Navy jet pilots, who train in their fighters flying them at speeds exceeding 1,100 kilometers an hour and altitudes only a couple hundred meters above ground level of the Mono Basin, very fast, very low, and so loud that the anthrophony, the human noise, even though it's six and a half kilometers from the frog pond you just heard a second ago, it masked the sound of the chorusing toads. You can see in this spectrogram that all of the energy that was once in the first spectrogram is gone from the top end of the spectrogram, and that there's breaks in the chorusing at two and a half, four and a half, and six and a half seconds, and then the sound of the jet, the signature, is in yellow at the very bottom of the page. (Frogs croaking) Now at the end of that flyby, it took the frogs fully 45 minutes to regain their chorusing synchronicity, during which time, and under a full moon, we watched as two coyotes and a great horned owl came in to pick off a few of their numbers. The good news is that, with a little bit of habitat restoration and fewer flights, the frog populations, once diminishing during the 1980s and early '90s, have pretty much returned to normal. I want to end with a story told by a beaver. It's a very sad story, but it really illustrates how animals can sometimes show emotion, a very controversial subject among some older biologists. A colleague of mine was recording in the American Midwest around this pond that had been formed maybe 16,000 years ago at the end of the last ice age. It was also formed in part by a beaver dam at one end that held that whole ecosystem together in a very delicate balance. And one afternoon, while he was recording, there suddenly appeared from out of nowhere a couple of game wardens, who for no apparent reason, walked over to the beaver dam, dropped a stick of dynamite down it, blowing it up, killing the female and her young babies. Horrified, my colleagues remained behind to gather his thoughts and to record whatever he could the rest of the afternoon, and that evening, he captured a remarkable event: the lone surviving male beaver swimming in slow circles crying out inconsolably for its lost mate and offspring. This is probably the saddest sound I've ever heard coming from any organism, human or other. (Beaver crying) Yeah. Well. There are many facets to soundscapes, among them the ways in which animals taught us to dance and sing, which I'll save for another time. But you have heard how biophonies help clarify our understanding of the natural world. You've heard the impact of resource extraction, human noise and habitat destruction. And where environmental sciences have typically tried to understand the world from what we see, a much fuller understanding can be got from what we hear. Biophonies and geophonies are the signature voices of the natural world, and as we hear them, we're endowed with a sense of place, the true story of the world we live in. In a matter of seconds, a soundscape reveals much more information from many perspectives, from quantifiable data to cultural inspiration. Visual capture implicitly frames a limited frontal perspective of a given spatial context, while soundscapes widen that scope to a full 360 degrees, completely enveloping us. And while a picture may be worth 1,000 words, a soundscape is worth 1,000 pictures. And our ears tell us that the whisper of every leaf and creature speaks to the natural sources of our lives, which indeed may hold the secrets of love for all things, especially our own humanity, and the last word goes to a jaguar from the Amazon. (Growling) Thank you for listening. (Applause)"	（大自然的聲音） 我第一次開始錄野外聲境是 45 年前那時候我不知道原來螞蟻昆蟲幼體、海葵及病毒都會產生獨特的音調但牠們確實會地球上的每一個野生棲地也是如此就像從我背後聽到的亞馬遜雨林事實上，溫帶及熱帶雨林都會產生活力四射的動物樂團這種即席卻組織化的表演集合了昆蟲、爬行類、兩棲類、鳥類和哺乳類動物而每一種野生棲地流瀉出的聲境都有自己的特徵其中所含的資訊多到令人難以置信而我今天要與各位分享的就是其中的一部分 聲境有三種基本來源第一是地形聲響或稱非生物聲音在任何棲地都會產生像樹上的風，溪裡的水岸邊的海潮，地球的活動第二種稱作生物聲響生物聲響是指特定棲地上的生物在某時某地產生的聲音第三種則是我們人類產生的所有聲音稱為人的聲響有些可受控制，像音樂或戲劇但大多數為混亂而不連貫有些人就稱之為噪音 曾有一段時間我認為野外聲境毫無價值它們擺在那兒，形同虛設但我錯了。我從這幾次邂逅中發現仔細聆聽為我們提供了極有價值的工具可以評估一個棲地上所有生物的健康狀態 當我在 60 年代晚期開始錄音普通的錄音法所能錄到的聲音只能捕捉到個別物種的片段一開始的時候最主要是鳥類但後來就有像哺乳類或兩棲類等動物對我而言，這有點像是試著去瞭解貝多芬的第五號交響曲的偉大卻只聽單一小提琴的聲音而不管整個樂團的表現而且只聽那個部分所幸，有愈來愈多的機構使用更全方位的機型是我和幾個同事引進聲境生態學領域的 我在四十年前開始錄音時可以只錄 10 小時就得到一小時的可用材料夠我做一張唱片或影片配樂或給博物館做裝置藝術現在，因為全球暖化資源開採人類噪音以及其他很多因素要錄到一千小時以上才能取得同等量的東西我存檔中有 50%錄自受到劇烈改變的棲地這些地方不是變成全然無聲就是再也聽不到原有的聲境 棲地評估的常用方法就是以肉眼計算某面積內的物種數量以及每種物種的個體數量不過我能以比較我們所聽到結合了密度及多樣性的數據得到更精確的棲地健康報告而我想讓大家看一些例子代表了探究這片天地所顯示出的潛在價值 這裡是林肯草原林肯草原位於舊金山以東開車三個小時半的內華達山脈海拔約二千公尺我已經在那裏錄了很多年1988 年有個林業公司說服當地居民說絕對不會有任何環境影響因為他們正在試用新的方法稱為「等級伐採」就是這裡砍一棵那裡砍一棵而不是皆伐整片區域我得到許可能在開工前及開工後錄音我把器材架好錄到了大量的清晨鳥叫聲錄音及校準條件非常嚴格因為我想要一條非常好的基線這是聲音頻譜分析的例子聲音頻譜分析把聲音用圖像表示時間軸從頁面的左到右這個例子畫了 15 秒頻率軸從頁面的下到上從最低到最高你可以看到一條小溪的音調呈現在頁面下方三分之一處而那片草地原有的小鳥其音調則在頁面上方出現那裏曾有很多小鳥這是林肯草原在等級伐採前的聲音 （大自然的聲音） 但是一年之後我回去在同樣的設定條件同樣的狀態下錄音我錄了幾個範例同樣是清晨鳥叫聲而這是我們現在所得到的這是等級採伐之後的狀態你可以聽見小溪依然呈現在頁面的下方三分之一處但是注意一下頁面上方三分之二處缺了什麼 （大自然的聲音） 馬上要出現的是啄木鳥的聲音 嗯，過去 25 年內我陸陸續續去了林肯草原 15 次而我可以告訴你生物聲響那裡的生物聲響密度及多樣性還沒有恢復到開工前的狀態但這是林肯草原在開工後的照片而你可以看見從照相機的角度或說從人眼的角度很難發現有哪根枝哪棵樹不見了這可以證實這家伐木公司的論點就是沒有環境影響然而我們的耳朵聽到的卻完全不是這麼回事 年輕的學生總是要問我這些動物在說什麼而我是真的不知道但我可以告訴你牠們的確會表達自己我們瞭解與否則是另外一回事有一次我沿著阿拉斯加的海岸行走我遇到了這個退潮後的小潮池裡面佈滿了一群海葵這些奇妙的捕食機器珊瑚及水母的親戚我很好奇想看看牠們會不會發出聲音所以我垂吊了一個水聽器下去是一種水下麥克風，以橡膠包住才降到海葵口盤處這些小怪物立刻開始把麥克風吸入肚子裡而且觸手就在麥克風表面上尋找有營養價值的東西這種像靜電的聲音非常低頻你們馬上就會聽到（靜電聲音）對！但聽！當牠找不到東西可吃（喇叭聲）（笑聲）我認為這種表達法是大家都能理解的共通語言（笑聲） 在繁殖週期尾聲大盆地鋤足蟾會在地表下一公尺處挖一個洞在這種硬梆梆的美西沙漠土壤裡牠可以在那裡待上好幾個季節直到環境又合適了才出來當土地的水分足夠了春天時，青蛙會在地表挖洞聚在這些又大又生氣盎然的池子旁邊數量很大而且牠們發聲合唱彼此之間絕對同步牠們如此做有兩個原因第一是為了競爭因為牠們在尋找交配對象第二是為了合作因為如果牠們同步發聲天敵如土狼、狐狸、貓頭鷹等很難從中挑出單隻當飯吃這是青蛙合唱的聲音頻譜分析的樣子在生態條件非常健康的狀態下 （青蛙呱呱叫） 莫諾湖就在優勝美地國家公園東方位於加州這裡是這些蟾蜍最愛的棲地同時這裡也是美國海軍戰鬥機駕駛的最愛他們在這裡訓練飛行員以時速超過一千一百公里的速度駕駛飛機但飛行高度只距莫諾盆地地表數百公尺非常快非常低而且很大聲所以這些人的聲響，人類的噪音即使遠在六公里半以外就是距離那個你剛剛聽到的青蛙池塘這些噪音也能把蟾蜍大合唱的聲音給蓋掉你可以看見在這個聲音頻譜分析裡本來在第一個聲音頻譜分析圖上端的能量都不見了而合唱在兩秒半四秒半及六秒半都中斷了然後噴射機的聲音，這個音頻在頁面最下面以黃線畫出 （青蛙呱呱叫） 那麼在定點飛行結束後這些青蛙要花整整 45 分鐘才能重現同步合唱在這段期間，在大滿月下我們觀察到有兩隻土狼及一隻大雕鴞跑來抓了幾隻走好消息是因為棲地復原了一點點飛行訓練也少了一點這些青蛙的總數本來在 1980 年間及90 年代早期減少的現在已經恢復得差不多了 我想以一隻河狸說的故事來結尾這是個非常悲哀的故事但確實描繪了動物有時候也有情感表現這在老一輩的生物學者間是非常具爭議的題目我有個同事在美國中西部一個池塘附近錄音大概是在一萬六千年前上一個冰河時期末時形成的池塘的一部分也是河狸水壩在一端維持整個生態系非常微妙的平衡有一天下午他在錄音突然不知道從哪兒冒出一對狩獵監督官他們並沒有什麼明顯的理由就走到那座河狸水壩丟了一根炸彈下去把它炸了弄死了一頭雌河狸及幾隻小河狸我的同事嚇壞了躲著不敢出來試著整理情緒並繼續記錄那天下午還能錄到的東西到了晚上，他捕捉到了一個令人動容的畫面孤單倖存的雄河狸緩慢的游泳繞圈圈傷心欲絕地哀哭著牠失去的妻小這大概是我所聽過從生物口中發出最令人難過的聲音了無論是從人類或動物的口 （河狸哭泣） 是啊，唉！ 聲境有很多面其中還有動物教我們跳舞唱歌這部分我下次再說但你已經聽到生物聲響如何幫助我們更清楚地了解大自然世界你也已經聽到資源開採人類噪音以及棲地破壞的影響環境科學通常試著以肉眼所見來了解這個世界但從耳朵所聽到的能讓我們有更全盤的了解生物聲響及地形聲響是自然世界的招牌聲音我們一聽到這些聲音就會對這地方產生感覺是我們所處的世界的真實故事就在彈指之間聲境透露出的資訊比其他面向更多從可量化的數據到文化靈感都可以視覺只能隱約捕捉到從正面角度看某空間範圍的樣子但聲境把視角擴大變成 360 度，完全包圍我們而一張照片或許值一千字一份聲境數據卻值一千張照片而我們的耳朵告訴我們每片葉子每種生物的細微聲響都是我們生活中的自然資源在說話而這確實可能解釋萬物愛的奧秘尤其是我們人類本身的愛以及，最後是亞馬遜美洲虎要說話 （吼叫聲） 謝謝大家聆聽 （掌聲）
