Talk	en	zh-tw
bill_gross_the_single_biggest_reason_why_startups_succeed	"I'm really excited to share with you some findings that really surprise me about what makes companies  succeed the most, what factors actually matter the most for startup success. I believe that the startup organization is one of the greatest forms to make the world a better place. If you take a group of people  with the right equity incentives and organize them in a startup, you can unlock human potential in a way never before possible. You get them to achieve  unbelievable things. But if the startup  organization is so great, why do so many fail? That's what I wanted to find out. I wanted to find out what actually matters most for startup success. And I wanted to try  to be systematic about it, avoid some of my instincts and maybe misperceptions I have from so many companies I've seen over the years. I wanted to know this because I've been starting businesses since I was 12 years old when I sold candy at the bus stop in junior high school, to high school, when I made solar energy devices, to college, when I made loudspeakers. And when I graduated from college, I started software companies. And 20 years ago, I started Idealab, and in the last 20 years, we started more than 100 companies, many successes, and many big failures. We learned a lot from those failures. So I tried to look across what factors accounted the most for company success and failure. So I looked at these five. First, the idea. I used to think that  the idea was everything. I named my company Idealab for how much I worship the ""aha!"" moment when you first come up with the idea. But then over time, I came to think that maybe the team, the execution, adaptability, that mattered even more than the idea. I never thought I'd be quoting boxer Mike Tyson on the TED stage, but he once said, ""Everybody has a plan, until they get punched in the face."" (Laughter) And I think that's so true about business as well. So much about a team's execution is its ability to adapt to getting punched in the face by the customer. The customer is the true reality. And that's why I came to think that the team maybe was the most important thing. Then I started looking at the business model. Does the company have a very clear path generating customer revenues? That started rising to the top in my thinking about maybe what mattered most for success. Then I looked at the funding. Sometimes companies received intense amounts of funding. Maybe that's the most important thing? And then of course, the timing. Is the idea way too early and the world's not ready for it? Is it early, as in, you're in advance and you have to educate the world? Is it just right? Or is it too late, and there's already too many competitors? So I tried to look very carefully at these five factors across many companies. And I looked across all 100 Idealab companies, and 100 non-Idealab companies to try and come up with  something scientific about it. So first, on these Idealab companies, the top five companies — Citysearch, CarsDirect, GoTo, NetZero, Tickets.com — those all became billion-dollar successes. And the five companies on the bottom — Z.com, Insider Pages, MyLife, Desktop Factory, Peoplelink — we all had high hopes for, but didn't succeed. So I tried to rank across all  of those attributes how I felt those companies scored on each of those dimensions. And then for non-Idealab companies, I looked at wild successes, like Airbnb and Instagram and Uber and Youtube and LinkedIn. And some failures: Webvan, Kozmo, Pets.com Flooz and Friendster. The bottom companies had intense funding, they even had business models in some cases, but they didn't succeed. I tried to look at what factors actually accounted the most for success and failure across all of these companies, and the results really surprised me. The number one thing was timing. Timing accounted for 42 percent of the difference between success and failure. Team and execution came in second, and the idea, the differentiability of the idea, the uniqueness of the idea, that actually came in third. Now, this isn't absolutely definitive, it's not to say that  the idea isn't important, but it very much surprised me that the idea wasn't the most important thing. Sometimes it mattered more when  it was actually timed. The last two, business model and funding, made sense to me actually. I think business model makes sense to be that low because you can start out without a business model and add one later if your customers are demanding what you're creating. And funding, I think as well, if you're underfunded at first but you're gaining traction, especially in today's age, it's very, very easy to get intense funding. So now let me give you some specific examples about each of these. So take a wild success like Airbnb that everybody knows about. Well, that company was famously passed on by many smart investors because people thought, ""No one's going to rent out a space in their home to a stranger."" Of course, people proved that wrong. But one of the reasons it succeeded, aside from a good business model, a good idea, great execution, is the timing. That company came out right during the height of the recession when people really needed extra money, and that maybe helped people overcome their objection to renting out their own home to a stranger. Same thing with Uber. Uber came out, incredible company, incredible business model, great execution, too. But the timing was so perfect for their need to get drivers into the system. Drivers were looking for extra money; it was very, very important. Some of our early successes, Citysearch, came out when people needed web pages. GoTo.com, which we announced actually at TED in 1998, was when companies were looking for cost-effective ways to get traffic. We thought the idea was so great, but actually, the timing was probably maybe more important. And then some of our failures. We started a company called Z.com, it was an online entertainment company. We were so excited about it — we raised enough money, we had a great business model, we even signed incredibly great Hollywood talent to join the company. But broadband penetration was too low in 1999-2000. It was too hard to watch video content online, you had to put codecs in your browser and do all this stuff, and the company eventually went out of business in 2003. Just two years later, when the codec problem was solved by Adobe Flash and when broadband penetration crossed 50 percent in America, YouTube was perfectly timed. Great idea, but unbelievable timing. In fact, YouTube didn't even have a business model when it first started. It wasn't even certain that  that would work out. But that was beautifully,  beautifully timed. So what I would say, in summary, is execution definitely matters a lot. The idea matters a lot. But timing might matter even more. And the best way to really assess timing is to really look at whether  consumers are really ready for what you have to offer them. And to be really, really honest about it, not be in denial about any results that you see, because if you have something you love, you want to push it forward, but you have to be very, very honest about that factor on timing. As I said earlier, I think startups can change the world and make the world a better place. I hope some of these insights can maybe help you have a slightly higher success ratio, and thus make something great come to the world that wouldn't have happened otherwise. Thank you very much, you've been a great audience. (Applause)"	我非常高興與大家分享令我非常驚訝的研究結果是有關創業成功的關鍵因素實際影響創業成功與否最關鍵的因素是什麼 我認為創業是使得世界變得更加美好的方式之一如果你帶領一組團隊給他們適當的激勵獎金開創一個事業你可以用前所未有的方式開啟人類的潛能你讓團隊達到令人難以置信的成功 但是既然創業是如此美好為什麼有這麼多人失敗？這是我想要找出原因的地方我想要找出導致創業成功最關鍵的因素 而且我試著系統化地找出關鍵因素以避免我的直覺和我的認知錯誤影響結果我觀察多年來我見過的許多公司 想要了解創業成功的關鍵因素因為我從十二歲就開始做生意就讀初中時，我在公車站賣糖果高中時，我製作太陽能的裝置大學時，我製作擴音器大學畢業後，我成立軟體公司20 年前，我成立一家公司叫「創意實驗室」(Idealab)在這 20 年當中，我創辦超過 100 家公司很多是成功的企業，但也有很失敗的我們從失敗中學到許多寶貴經驗 所以我試著找出是什麼因素導致一家公司成功或失敗我找出五個因素第一個因素是，創意我以前認為有創新的點子最重要我把我的公司名為「創意實驗室」就知道我多麼看重這個因素「啊！有了！」的當下有一個想法從腦中浮現但隨著時間的過去我開始想或許團隊成員、執行力及適應力甚至比創意還重要 我從沒想過會在 TED 講台上引用拳擊手麥克・泰森的話但他曾經說過「每個人都有自己的計畫，直到他們臉上挨了一拳」（笑聲）這句話可以完全適用在商場上團隊有是否有很強的執行力完全在於他們能否能適應被客戶拳頭打在臉上的能力客戶的反應才是真正的現實這就是為何我開始思考或許團隊才是最重要的因素 然後我又開始研究「商業模式」一個企業有明確的產生營收的方法嗎？因此我開始思考或許這才是成功最關鍵的因素 然後，我也考慮「募資」這個因素有時後，企業籌得一大筆資金或許這才是最重要因素？ 再來當然是「時機」你腦海中的那個想法會不會現在還不適用呢？會不會現在開始還太早?你必須教育消費者？時機點剛剛好？或者太晚，市場上早已有大批的競爭者？ 我試著仔細地以這五個因素用來研究大量的公司包括我創立的一百家公司和一百家非我創立的公司試著以科學方法找出關鍵的因素 首先，在我成立的公司其中最成功的五家公司Citysearch, CarsDirect, GoTo,Net Zero, Tickets.com這五家公司非常賺錢而五家最差的公司，分別是Z.com, Insider Page, MyLife, Desktop Factory, poeplelink，我們對這些公司抱有很高的期望但仍然沒有成功 所以試著找出這些因素的排名這些公司如何在每一個因素中取得分數在非我建立的公司名單中我找了一些極度成功的例子Airbnb, Instagram, UberYouTube 和 Linkedin. 也找了一些失敗的公司像是 Webvan, Kozmo, Pets.comFlooz 和 Friendster這些不成功的公司，籌得大筆資金有的甚至有商業模式但是沒能成功我試著研究，什麼因素對這些公司的成功和失敗佔有最高的比率結果讓我很訝異 最重要的因素是「時機」時機佔 42%這個比率是成功與失敗公司之間的差異「團隊」和「執行力」排第二名然後是「創意」創意的可辨性，創意的獨特性實際上排第三名 這個研究並不是絶對完整並不是說「創意」不重要但令我訝異的是「創意」不是最重要的有時比較重要的，其實是「時機」 最後二個是「商業模式」和「募資」這是可以理解的我想「商業模式」獲得較低的排名是有道理的因為沒有商業模式，也可以創業你的客戶有需求時，再將商業模式加入募資也是一樣道理即使剛開始沒有資金但公司越來越受歡迎尤其是現在這時代你就很容易籌得一大筆資金 讓我舉幾一些具體的例子例如，大家熟知的、高度成功的 Airbnb這間公司被許多聰明的投資者忽略因為大家認為「沒有人要將自家的房間出租給陌生人」但事實證明這個想法是錯的它成功的因素之一除了好的商業模式好創意及優秀的執行力外那就是「時機」 公司創立之時剛好是在經濟衰退的高點人們需要額外的收入這或許可以幫助人們克服不喜歡將自己的房間出租給陌生人心態 優步 (Uber) 也是相同的情況優步成立之時是個相當不錯的公司具有優異的商業模式也有很強的執行力成立的時間點是如此完美他們需要將計程車司機納入公司系統而司機也在尋找額外的收入這一點相當重要 「Citysearch」是我們早期成功的公司，因應當時人們有網頁的需求而成立我們在 1998 年在 TED 發表 GoTo.com正逢當時企業在尋找符合成本效益的方法，取得網路流量我們認為想這個點子真好但事實上，時機或許更重要我們也有一些失敗公司的例子我們成立一家公司稱為 Z.com是一家線上娛樂公司我們對這家公司充滿期望我們籌措足夠的資金具備很好的商業模式甚至與好萊塢極的優秀人才簽約加入這個公司但在 1999-2000 年寬頻的普及率太低人們要在網路觀看影片很困難我們必須在用戶端的瀏覽器置入轉碼器協助用戶完成這個工作這公司最後在 2003 年結束營業 僅儘二年之後Adobe Flash 解決了轉碼的問題並且，美國的寬頻普及率超過百分之五十YouTube 就在這樣一個完美的時間點成立了好的創意，配上絕佳的時機事實上，YouTube 在成立之初並沒有商業模式甚至不確定他們會成功但它就成功在於遇上如此完美的時間點 總之，我要表達的是「執行力」當然重要「創意」也很重要但「時機」更加重要評估時機最好的方式是觀察消費者是否已經準備好接受你要提供給他們的產品或服務你要非常、非常誠實地考慮這個問題不要否認你所看到的結果因為如果有你喜歡的事業你要往前推動你就必須非常誠實地考慮「時機」這個因素 如我稍早所說的創業可以改變這個世界讓世界變得更美好我希望今天的這些觀察或許可以幫助你提升創業成功率讓那些原本可能不會發生的創意點子在現實世界裡開花結果 謝謝大家，你們是很棒的聽眾 （掌聲）
