Talk	en	zh-tw
black_my_journey_to_yo_yo_mastery	"When I was 14 years old, I had low self-esteem. I felt I was not talented at anything. One day, I bought a yo-yo. When I tried my first trick, it looked like this: (Laughter) I couldn't even do the simplest trick, but it was very natural for me, because I was not dextrous, and hated all sports. But after one week of practicing, my throws became more like this: A bit better. I thought, the yo-yo is something for me to be good at. For the first time in my life, I found my passion. I was spending all my time practicing. It took me hours and hours a day to build my skills up to the next level. And then, four years later, when I was 18 years old, I was standing onstage at the World YoYo Contest. And I won. I was so excited. ""Yes, I did it! I became a hero. I may get many sponsors, a lot of money, tons of interviews, and be on TV!"" I thought. (Laughter) But after coming back to Japan, totally nothing changed in my life. (Laughter) I realized society didn't value my passion. So I went back to my college and became a typical Japanese worker as a systems engineer. I felt my passion, heart and soul, had left my body. I felt I was not alive anymore. So I started to consider what I should do, and I thought, I wanted to make my performance better, and to show onstage how spectacular the yo-yo could be to change the public's image of the yo-yo. So I quit my company and started a career as a professional performer. I started to learn classic ballet, jazz dance, acrobatics and other things to make my performance better. As a result of these efforts, and the help of many others, it happened. I won the World YoYo Contest again in the artistic performance division. I passed an audition for Cirque Du Soleil. Today, I am standing on the TED stage with the yo-yo in front of you. (Applause) What I learned from the yo-yo is, if I make enough effort with huge passion, there is no impossible. Could you let me share my passion with you through my performance? (Applause) (Water sound) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) (Applause ends) (Music) (Applause)"	我十四歲的時候，我很自卑。我覺得我對任何東西都沒有天份。 有一天，我買了一個溜溜球。當我嘗試第一個花招的時候，它看起來像這樣。我連最簡單的花招都不會，但這對我而言是很正常的事，因為我手腳並不靈活，也討厭所有的運動。但是，經過一個禮拜的練習後，我拋出來的比較像這個樣子。有好一點了。在我人生中，溜溜球讓我第一次覺得有東西是我可以擅長的。我找到了我的熱情。我把所有時間花在練習上。我一天需要好幾個小時才能將我的技能提昇到另一階段。 四年後，當我 18 歲的時候，我站上了世界溜溜球比賽。然後，我贏了。我當時非常興奮，「太好了！我成功了！我成了英雄。我可能會有很多贊助商、很多錢、一堆訪問，還有上電視！」我是這麼以為的。（笑）但回到日本之後，我的人生沒有任何的改變。我意識到社會並不重視我的熱情。於是，我回到社區大學並成為了一個典型的日本上班族—一名系統工程師。我覺得我的熱情、心和靈魂全都離開了我的身體。彷彿行屍走肉。 因此，我開始思考我應該怎麼做。我想，我希望我能讓我的演出更加精彩，並在舞臺上展示出溜溜球可以是多麼精妙絕倫以改變溜溜球的公眾形象。 所以，我辭掉了我的工作，成為一個全職表演家。我開始學習古典芭蕾、 爵士舞、雜技和其它技能這都是為了讓我的演出能更加精彩。 在我的努力，以及他人的幫助下它成真了。我再次贏得世界溜溜球大賽，在藝術表演家的類別。我通過了太陽馬戲團的面試。今天，我站在 TED 的舞台上和我手上的溜溜球。 （掌聲） 我從溜溜球上學到的是當一個人全心全意的做一件事的時候，沒有什麼是不可能的。 我是否可以通過我的表演與你們分享我的熱情? （掌聲） （水聲） （音樂） （掌聲） （音樂） （音樂）（掌聲） （掌聲） （音樂）（掌聲） （掌聲）（音樂） （掌聲）
