Talk	en	zh-tw
bob_mankoff_anatomy_of_a_new_yorker_cartoon	"I'm going to be talking about designing humor, which is sort of an interesting thing, but it goes to some of the discussions about constraints, and how in certain contexts, humor is right, and in other contexts it's wrong. Now, I'm from New York, so it's 100 percent satisfaction here. Actually, that's ridiculous, because when it comes to humor, 75 percent is really absolutely the best you can hope for. Nobody is ever satisfied 100 percent with humor except this woman. (Video) Woman: (Laughs) Bob Mankoff: That's my first wife. (Laughter) That part of the relationship went fine. (Laughter) Now let's look at this cartoon. One of the things I'm pointing out is that cartoons appear within the context of The New Yorker magazine, that lovely Caslon type, and it seems like a fairly benign cartoon within this context. It's making a little bit fun of getting older, and, you know, people might like it. But like I said, you cannot satisfy everyone. You couldn't satisfy this guy. ""Another joke on old white males. Ha ha. The wit. It's nice, I'm sure to be young and rude, but some day you'll be old, unless you drop dead as I wish."" (Laughter) The New Yorker is rather a sensitive environment, very easy for people to get their nose out of joint. And one of the things that you realize is it's an unusual environment. Here I'm one person talking to you. You're all collective. You all hear each other laugh and know each other laugh. In The New Yorker, it goes out to a wide audience, and when you actually look at that, and nobody knows what anybody else is laughing at, and when you look at that the subjectivity involved in humor is really interesting. Let's look at this cartoon. ""Discouraging data on the antidepressant."" (Laughter) Indeed, it is discouraging. Now, you would think, well, look, most of you laughed at that. Right? You thought it was funny. In general, that seems like a funny cartoon, but let's look what online survey I did. Generally, about 85 percent of the people liked it. A hundred and nine voted it a 10, the highest. Ten voted it one. But look at the individual responses. ""I like animals!!!!!"" Look how much they like them. (Laughter) ""I don't want to hurt them. That doesn't seem very funny to me."" This person rated it a two. ""I don't like to see animals suffer — even in cartoons."" To people like this, I point out we use anesthetic ink. Other people thought it was funny. That actually is the true nature of the distribution of humor when you don't have the contagion of humor. Humor is a type of entertainment. All entertainment contains a little frisson of danger, something that might happen wrong, and yet we like it when there's protection. That's what a zoo is. It's danger. The tiger is there. The bars protect us. That's sort of fun, right? That's a bad zoo. (Laughter) It's a very politically correct zoo, but it's a bad zoo. But this is a worse one. (Laughter) So in dealing with humor in the context of The New Yorker, you have to see, where is that tiger going to be? Where is the danger going to exist? How are you going to manage it? My job is to look at 1,000 cartoons a week. But The New Yorker only can take 16 or 17 cartoons, and we have 1,000 cartoons. Of course, many, many cartoons must be rejected. Now, we could fit more cartoons in the magazine if we removed the articles. (Laughter) But I feel that would be a huge loss, one I could live with, but still huge. Cartoonists come in through the magazine every week. The average cartoonist who stays with the magazine does 10 or 15 ideas every week. But they mostly are going to be rejected. That's the nature of any creative activity. Many of them fade away. Some of them stay. Matt Diffee is one of them. Here's one of his cartoons. (Laughter) Drew Dernavich. ""Accounting night at the improv."" ""Now is the part of the show when we ask the audience to shout out some random numbers."" Paul Noth. ""He's all right. I just wish he were a little more pro-Israel."" (Laughter) Now I know all about rejection, because when I quit — actually, I was booted out of — psychology school and decided to become a cartoonist, a natural segue, from 1974 to 1977 I submitted 2,000 cartoons to The New Yorker, and got 2,000 cartoons rejected by The New Yorker. At a certain point, this rejection slip, in 1977 — [We regret that we are unable to use the enclosed material. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to consider it.] — magically changed to this. [Hey! You sold one. No shit! You really sold a cartoon to the fucking New Yorker magazine.] (Laughter) Now of course that's not what happened, but that's the emotional truth. And of course, that is not New Yorker humor. What is New Yorker humor? Well, after 1977, I broke into The New Yorker and started selling cartoons. Finally, in 1980, I received the revered New Yorker contract, which I blurred out parts because it's none of your business. From 1980. ""Dear Mr. Mankoff, confirming the agreement there of — "" blah blah blah blah — blur — ""for any idea drawings."" With respect to idea drawings, nowhere in the contract is the word ""cartoon"" mentioned. The word ""idea drawings,"" and that's the sine qua non of New Yorker cartoons. So what is an idea drawing? An idea drawing is something that requires you to think. Now that's not a cartoon. It requires thinking on the part of the cartoonist and thinking on your part to make it into a cartoon. (Laughter) Here are some, generally you get my cast of cartoon mind. ""There is no justice in the world. There is some justice in the world. The world is just."" This is What Lemmings Believe. (Laughter) The New Yorker and I, when we made comments, the cartoon carries a certain ambiguity about what it actually is. What is it, the cartoon? Is it really about lemmings? No. It's about us. You know, it's my view basically about religion, that the real conflict and all the fights between religion is who has the best imaginary friend. (Laughter) And this is my most well-known cartoon. ""No, Thursday's out. How about never — is never good for you?"" It's been reprinted thousands of times, totally ripped off. It's even on thongs, but compressed to ""How about never — is never good for you?"" Now these look like very different forms of humor but actually they bear a great similarity. In each instance, our expectations are defied. In each instance, the narrative gets switched. There's an incongruity and a contrast. In ""No, Thursday's out. How about never — is never good for you?"" what you have is the syntax of politeness and the message of being rude. That really is how humor works. It's a cognitive synergy where we mash up these two things which don't go together and temporarily in our minds exist. He is both being polite and rude. In here, you have the propriety of The New Yorker and the vulgarity of the language. Basically, that's the way humor works. So I'm a humor analyst, you would say. Now E.B. White said, analyzing humor is like dissecting a frog. Nobody is much interested, and the frog dies. Well, I'm going to kill a few, but there won't be any genocide. But really, it makes me — Let's look at this picture. This is an interesting picture, The Laughing Audience. There are the people, fops up there, but everybody is laughing, everybody is laughing except one guy. This guy. Who is he? He's the critic. He's the critic of humor, and really I'm forced to be in that position, when I'm at The New Yorker, and that's the danger that I will become this guy. Now here's a little video made by Matt Diffee, sort of how they imagine if we really exaggerated that. (Video) Bob Mankoff: ""Oooh, no. Ehhh. Oooh. Hmm. Too funny. Normally I would but I'm in a pissy mood. I'll enjoy it on my own. Perhaps. No. Nah. No. Overdrawn. Underdrawn. Drawn just right, still not funny enough. No. No. For God's sake no, a thousand times no. (Music) No. No. No. No. No. [Four hours later] Hey, that's good, yeah, whatcha got there? Office worker: Got a ham and swiss on rye?BM: No. Office worker: Okay. Pastrami on sourdough?BM: No. Office worker: Smoked turkey with bacon?BM: No. Office worker: Falafel?BM: Let me look at it. Eh, no. Office worker: Grilled cheese?BM: No. Office worker: BLT?BM: No. Office worker: Black forest ham and mozzarella with apple mustard?BM: No. Office worker: Green bean salad?BM: No. (Music) No. No. Definitely no. [Several hours after lunch] (Siren) No. Get out of here. (Laughter) That's sort of an exaggeration of what I do. Now, we do reject, many, many, many cartoons, so many that there are many books called ""The Rejection Collection."" ""The Rejection Collection"" is not quite New Yorker kind of humor. And you might notice the bum on the sidewalk here who is boozing and his ventriloquist dummy is puking. See, that's probably not going to be New Yorker humor. It's actually put together by Matt Diffee, one of our cartoonists. So I'll give you some examples of rejection collection humor. ""I'm thinking about having a child."" (Laughter) There you have an interesting — the guilty laugh, the laugh against your better judgment. (Laughter) ""Ass-head. Please help."" (Laughter) Now, in fact, within a context of this book, which says, ""Cartoons you never saw and never will see in The New Yorker,"" this humor is perfect. I'm going to explain why. There's a concept about humor about it being a benign violation. In other words, for something to be funny, we've got to think it's both wrong and also okay at the same time. If we think it's completely wrong, we say, ""That's not funny."" And if it's completely okay, what's the joke? Okay? And so, this benign, that's true of ""No, Thursday's out. How about never — is never good for you?"" It's rude. The world really shouldn't be that way. Within that context, we feel it's okay. So within this context, ""Asshead. Please help"" is a benign violation. Within the context of The New Yorker magazine ... ""T-Cell Army: Can the body's immune response help treat cancer?"" Oh, goodness. You're reading about this smart stuff, this intelligent dissection of the immune system. You glance over at this, and it says, ""Asshead. Please help""? God. So there the violation is malign. It doesn't work. There is no such thing as funny in and of itself. Everything will be within the context and our expectations. One way to look at it is this. It's sort of called a meta-motivational theory about how we look, a theory about motivation and the mood we're in and how the mood we're in determines the things we like or dislike. When we're in a playful mood, we want excitement. We want high arousal. We feel excited then. If we're in a purposeful mood, that makes us anxious. ""The Rejection Collection"" is absolutely in this field. You want to be stimulated. You want to be aroused. You want to be transgressed. It's like this, like an amusement park. Voice: Here we go. (Screams) He laughs. He is both in danger and safe, incredibly aroused. There's no joke. No joke needed. If you arouse people enough and get them stimulated enough, they will laugh at very, very little. This is another cartoon from ""The Rejection Collection."" ""Too snug?"" That's a cartoon about terrorism. The New Yorker occupies a very different space. It's a space that is playful in its own way, and also purposeful, and in that space, the cartoons are different. Now I'm going to show you cartoons The New Yorker did right after 9/11, a very, very sensitive area when humor could be used. How would The New Yorker attack it? It would not be with a guy with a bomb saying, ""Too snug?"" Or there was another cartoon I didn't show because actually I thought maybe people would be offended. The great Sam Gross cartoon, this happened after the Muhammad controversy where it's Muhammad in heaven, the suicide bomber is all in little pieces, and he's saying to the suicide bomber, ""You'll get the virgins when we find your penis."" (Laughter) Better left undrawn. The first week we did no cartoons. That was a black hole for humor, and correctly so. It's not always appropriate every time. But the next week, this was the first cartoon. ""I thought I'd never laugh again. Then I saw your jacket."" It basically was about, if we were alive, we were going to laugh. We were going to breathe. We were going to exist. Here's another one. ""I figure if I don't have that third martini, then the terrorists win."" These cartoons are not about them. They're about us. The humor reflects back on us. The easiest thing to do with humor, and it's perfectly legitimate, is a friend makes fun of an enemy. It's called dispositional humor. It's 95 percent of the humor. It's not our humor. Here's another cartoon. ""I wouldn't mind living in a fundamentalist Islamic state."" (Laughter) Humor does need a target. But interestingly, in The New Yorker, the target is us. The target is the readership and the people who do it. The humor is self-reflective and makes us think about our assumptions. Look at this cartoon by Roz Chast, the guy reading the obituary. ""Two years younger than you, 12 years older than you, three years your junior, your age on the dot, exactly your age."" That is a deeply profound cartoon. And so The New Yorker is also trying to, in some way, make cartoons say something besides funny and something about us. Here's another one. ""I started my vegetarianism for health reasons, Then it became a moral choice, and now it's just to annoy people."" (Laughter) ""Excuse me — I think there's something wrong with this in a tiny way that no one other than me would ever be able to pinpoint."" So it focuses on our obsessions, our narcissism, our foils and our foibles, really not someone else's. The New Yorker demands some cognitive work on your part, and what it demands is what Arthur Koestler, who wrote ""The Act of Creation"" about the relationship between humor, art and science, is what's called bisociation. You have to bring together ideas from different frames of reference, and you have to do it quickly to understand the cartoon. If the different frames of reference don't come together in about .5 seconds, it's not funny, but I think they will for you here. Different frames of reference. ""You slept with her, didn't you?"" (Laughter) ""Lassie! Get help!!"" (Laughter) It's called French Army Knife. (Laughter) And this is Einstein in bed. ""To you it was fast."" (Laughter) Now there are some cartoons that are puzzling. Like, this cartoon would puzzle many people. How many people know what this cartoon means? The dog is signaling he wants to go for a walk. This is the signal for a catcher to walk the dog. That's why we run a feature in the cartoon issue every year called ""I Don't Get It: The New Yorker Cartoon I.Q. Test."" (Laughter) The other thing The New Yorker plays around with is incongruity, and incongruity, I've shown you, is sort of the basis of humor. Something that's completely normal or logical isn't going to be funny. But the way incongruity works is, observational humor is humor within the realm of reality. ""My boss is always telling me what to do."" Okay? That could happen. It's humor within the realm of reality. Here, cowboy to a cow: ""Very impressive. I'd like to find 5,000 more like you."" We understand that. It's absurd. But we're putting the two together. Here, in the nonsense range: ""Damn it, Hopkins, didn't you get yesterday's memo?"" Now that's a little puzzling, right? It doesn't quite come together. In general, people who enjoy more nonsense, enjoy more abstract art, they tend to be liberal, less conservative, that type of stuff. But for us, and for me, helping design the humor, it doesn't make any sense to compare one to the other. It's sort of a smorgasbord that's made all interesting. So I want to sum all this up with a caption to a cartoon, and I think this sums up the whole thing, really, about The New Yorker cartoons. ""It sort of makes you stop and think, doesn't it."" (Laughter) And now, when you look at New Yorker cartoons, I'd like you to stop and think a little bit more about them. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我今天要和大家談一談如何設計幽默這應該算是很有趣的題目也會談到設計幽默的限制還有在某些情境下幽默是對的但在另一些情境下則不妥我來自紐約所以我是百分百對幽默很滿意其實這很荒謬, 因為講到幽默你最多只能期待有75%的滿意度世界上沒有人可以100%的滿意度除了這個女人(影片女人大笑)這是我的第一任老婆(笑聲)我們那時候關係很好(笑聲)現在我們來看看這個漫畫我想先指出這漫畫是在紐約客雜誌中插在內文之中的文字是可愛的卡斯龍字型在這樣的情境下看起來是個相當良善的漫畫它對變老這件事開了個玩笑你知道的, 人們可能會喜歡但像我說的, 你無法滿足所有人你無法滿足這個傢伙""另一個開年紀大白人的玩笑, 哈哈, 很好笑很好, 我肯定你是即年輕又粗魯但有一天你也會變老, 除非你猝死 - 像我期待的那樣""(笑聲)紐約客雜誌是一個相較敏感的環境讀者很容易不滿然而有一件事你們可以感受到現在這裡是一個特別的氛圍我一個人和各位演說, 你們是一個群體你們可以聽到彼此的笑聲, 也知道彼此在笑而在紐約客, 面對的觀眾很廣當你去檢視這一點沒有人知道其他人在笑些什麼而且會發現幽默的主觀性是很有趣的讓我們來看看這個漫畫""令人失望的抗憂鬱藥物研究結果""(笑聲)這確實令人失望現在你會說, 看吧大部分的人都笑了覺得這很有趣一般而言, 這是一個很有趣的漫畫但是讓我們來看看我做的線上調查大體而言, 近85%的人喜歡它109個人給了最高分十分, 有10人投了一分看看這些人的回應""我很喜歡動物! 但看看他們呢..""(笑聲)""我不想傷害他們, 我覺得這看起來不有趣""這個人給了兩分""就算只是漫畫, 我也不喜歡看到動物受苦""對這些人, 我會說我是用加了麻醉藥的墨水其它人認為這很有趣實際上這是當你沒有幽默感時群眾很自然地對幽默的一種散播幽默是一種娛樂每一種娛樂都隱含了一些危險因素有些時候可能會出錯但有所保護的時候, 我們會喜歡它像是動物園, 老虎很危險, 但有柵欄保護這樣就感到一點有趣了, 對吧這是一個不好的動物園(笑聲)這是一個政治正確的動物園, 但不是一個好的動物園更糟的動物園則長這樣(笑聲)所以, 處理在紐約客文章中的幽默你必須知道老虎會在哪裡哪裡存在著危險你又會如何去面對我的工作是每週檢視一千個漫畫但紐約客只能留下16到17個然而我們有一千個因此有很多很多的漫畫必須被退回當然我們可以在雜誌中放入更多的漫畫前提是把文章都拿掉(笑聲)我覺得那會是很大的損失我是可以接受, 但還是很大的損失每週很多漫畫畫家進來雜誌社平均來說, 他們每週畫10到15個漫畫但它們大部分會被退稿所有創意工作都是如此這些人多數隨時間離去, 有些人會留下Matt Diffee 是其中一個這是他的漫畫（笑聲）Drew Dernavich 的 ""在劇場的會計之夜""""這是表演的一部分, 我們會請觀眾隨機地給我們一些數字”Paul Noth 的 ""他沒問題的, 只希望他扮演以色列人能更專業一點""(笑聲)各位, 我很了解退稿因為當我休學, 事實上是我被踢出心理學學校決定要當一個漫畫畫家, 一個很自然的決定我從1974到1977年，送出了2000個漫畫去紐約客然而2000個漫畫都被紐約客退回在1977年的某個時間點, 退稿單從這張：""很抱歉我們無法採用您的材料，謝謝您給我們機會參考您的作品""神奇的變成這張：”嘿，你賣掉了一個！不是蓋的，你真的成功的賣出了一個漫畫給他媽的紐約客雜誌。”（笑聲）當然, 這不是真的狀況, 只是我心理上的感受想當然爾, 那不是紐約客的幽默什麼是紐約客幽默?在1997年後, 我闖進了紐約客雜誌並開始賣我的漫畫終於在1980年, 我收到了令人崇敬的紐約客的合約我模糊掉了一部分因為那跟你們無關”在1980, 親愛的曼考夫先生, 確認了合約...""""所以... 啦啦啦啦... 啦～””對於任何構想畫作...”""關於構想畫作...""在合約中從頭到尾都沒有提及""漫畫"" 這個字""構想畫作"" 這個字, 是紐約客漫畫的必要條件所以什麼是構想畫作? 構想畫作是..會讓你思考的東西這不是漫畫, 這需要部分畫家的想法和部分你的想法讓它畫成一個漫畫(笑聲)這裡有一些範例, 你可以從這了解我的漫畫思維”世界沒有公義, 世界上有一些公義, 這世界就是公義的”""這是旅鼠相信的"" (按: 跳下懸崖會上天堂)(笑聲)當我和紐約客在下註解的時候漫畫帶著一種模糊的意義這真的是關於旅鼠的漫畫嗎?不, 是關於我們這基本上是我對宗教的觀點真實世界中宗教之間的爭論著誰有最佳的幻想朋友(按：小朋友常常會有的那種)（笑聲）這是我最有名的漫畫""不, 星期四不行. '永不' 如何... '永不' 你可以嗎?""這漫畫被印了上幾千次, 超夯的甚至印在丁字褲上但被簡化成「'永不' 如何... '永不' 你可以嗎?」他們看起來像是非常不同形式的幽默但其實他們有很多的共通點每一個例子中, 我們的預期被挑戰每一個例子中, 敘事被調換了有著一種不協調與對比在 ""不, 星期四不行. '絕不' 如何... '絕不' 你可以嗎?""你看到的是有禮貌的句子結構和很粗魯的訊息這就是幽默運作的方式認知的綜效. 將兩個互相矛盾的東西混在一起並且暫時存留在我們的腦海裡它同時表現禮貌和無理在這, 你有紐約客的禮貌和語言的粗俗基本上, 這就是幽默運作的方式所以, 你可以說我是一個幽默的分析師E.B. White 說, 分析幽默就像是解剖一隻青蛙(按：E.B. White 是紐約客的知名作家)沒有人會有興趣，而且青蛙會死我會殺死一些, 但不會造成種族滅絕但它讓我...我們來看看這張圖, 這是一幅有趣的圖在笑的觀眾們上面這些紈褲子弟除了一個人, 每個人都在笑這一位他是誰? 他是評論家他是幽默的評論家說真的, 我是被強迫做這事的在紐約客, 有很高的機率會變成這個人這裡有一個 Matt Diffee 做的短片他們如何誇張的想像我的工作歐.. 不呃歐, 恩, 太過好笑通常我會讓他過, 但是我現在心情不好這, 或許我留著自己享用不, 不, 不畫太多, 畫太少畫得剛剛好, 但是不夠好笑不, 不我的天, 一千個不 !(音樂)不不. (四個小時以後)嘿.. 太好了, 你那有什麼?火腿起司裸麥麵包? 不要醃燻牛肉發酵麵包? 不煙燻火雞培根? 不沙拉三明治? 讓我看看呃, 不要烤起司? 不要BLT? 不要 (按：BLT 是培根生菜番茄三明治)黑森林火腿和白乾酪配蘋果芥茉? 不要綠豆沙拉? 不要(音樂)不, 不肯定不 (午餐後幾個小時)(警笛聲)不要, 給我滾(笑聲)這就是將我的工作誇大之後的樣子我們拒絕很多很漫畫多到市面上有好幾本書叫做 : 退件漫畫大全集《退件漫畫大全集》不是紐約客式的幽默你可以看到路邊喝醉的流浪漢和他的腹語人偶在嘔吐這不會是紐約客的幽默其實這是我們其中一位漫畫家 Matt Diffee 的作品我來舉一些《退件漫畫大全》裡的例子”我考慮來生個小孩”(笑聲)瞧, 你們這是有趣的內疚笑聲跟你們良好判斷力作對的笑聲(笑聲)”屁頭, 幫幫我"" (按：說自己是屁頭 但暗指對方屁頭)(笑聲)事實上, 在這本書的脈絡中”這裡都是不曾也不會在紐約客上看到的漫畫”這些幽默是完美的讓我解釋一下幽默有一個概念是善意的作對換句話說, 關於一個好笑的幽默我們可以認定同時是錯誤和正確的如果我們認為是全盤錯誤的, 就不好笑了如果完全正確, 就不會是笑話了, 是吧所以在 ""不, 星期四不行. '絕不' 如何... '絕不' 你可以嗎?"" 的善意中它是無禮的, 現實世界不會是這樣的在這脈絡下, 我們覺得這是可以接受的但在 ”屁頭, 幫幫我""這是善意的作對在紐約客雜誌內文中”T細胞軍隊: 身體免疫反應能幫忙治療癌症？”天吶你正在讀這篇有水準的文章一篇關於免疫的詳細文章結果一眼就瞧到”屁頭, 幫幫我""　天吶！所以這樣算是惡性的作對, 不被接受的這樣的內容並不有趣每一樣都必須被含在文章脈絡和我們的期待中我們可以用這一種方式來解讀它被稱之為 後發動機理論這是關於我們的動機和情境的關係我們的心情如何決定我們喜歡或討厭當我們在玩樂的狀態下, 我們渴望興奮我們想要激起慾望, 感到刺激當我們在有目的性的情景下, 這讓我們興奮""退件漫畫大全集"" 屬於這一類你想要被刺激, 被激起欲望想要逾越規則這樣就是去遊樂園[影片] 衝吧 （尖叫）他笑了, 他在即危險又安全的狀態極度的刺激, 這不是在開玩笑, 不需要任何幽默如果你給人們足夠的刺激他們就會幾乎笑不出來這是在""退件漫畫大全集""中的另一則漫畫”太合身了嗎？”這是關於恐怖份子的漫畫紐約客雜誌是位在一個完全不同的地方在這裡是可以嘻笑也可以嚴肅的在這裡, 漫畫可以很不一樣我接下來給各位看看紐約客在 9/11 之後做的漫畫這是非常敏感性的議題紐約客是如何在這上面發揮的？絕不會是一個綁著炸彈的老兄說 ”太合身了嗎？”或是另一個我沒有拿出來用的漫畫因為我覺得會冒犯到某些人Sam Gross 的漫畫穆罕莫德在天堂上見到被炸的粉碎的炸彈自殺客他對那位炸彈客說”當我們找到你的雞雞就會給你應得的處女”(笑聲)這個最好是沒被畫出來才是第一週我們沒有刊登漫畫那時有個幽默的黑洞, 所以這是沒問題的這不是總能被接受的但下一週, 刊登了第一個漫畫”我以為我不會再笑了, 直到看到你的外套”基本上這說明, 如果我們活著我們就要笑, 要呼吸, 要存在著這是另一則漫畫”我覺得如果我不喝第三杯馬丁尼, 恐怖份子就贏了”這些漫畫不是在講他們, 是在講我們幽默投射到我們自己身上最簡單的幽默, 且政治正確的方式是朋友取笑敵人這是意向幽默95%的幽默是這一種的, 但我們的不是這是另一則漫畫”我不介意住在基本教義派穆斯林國家”(笑聲)幽默需要一個對象但有趣的是, 在紐約客, 對象是我們自己對象就是讀者和閱讀者幽默是自我反省讓我們思考理所當然的事情看看Roz Chast的這幅漫話，他正在看訃告比你年輕兩歲，比你年長十二歲，早你三年，與你同歲正值同齡這是寓意很深的漫畫同時，紐約客也在嘗試著從某些途徑，讓漫畫不僅有趣更關於我們自身。這是另外一個例子。“我因為健康原因開始吃素，然後它變成道德選擇，現在只是為了騷擾他人。”(笑聲)“打擾一下，我想這有點問題至少沒有人同我一樣精準”它關注了我們的執著與自戀我們的固執與缺點，不是別人的紐約客雜誌需要你們在認知上的努力正是Arthur Koestler在書中《創造的藝術》中寫到的幽默，藝術和科學的關係被稱作「雙向聯想」(bisociation)你必須把各個不同框架中的知識整合起來而且必須要足夠快到讓妳理解漫畫如果這個各領域的整合過程不在大約0.5秒內，那它就不會有趣，我想這些都達到要求了各個不同框架的認知你跟他同床了，是不？(笑聲)萊斯！去找人幫忙！(笑聲)法國小刀(笑聲)愛因斯坦在床上，“對你它很快”。(笑聲)有些漫畫比較費解就像這個漫畫會難倒很多人有多少人懂得這個漫畫的梗？這只狗在暗示牠想要遛遛這是捕手打該遛狗的暗號這就是為甚麼我們每年在紐約客上開設專欄「我看不懂：紐約客漫畫智力測驗」(笑聲)另外, 紐約客操作的是不協調, 和不協調我已經說過它是幽默一個基本的來源很正常或有邏輯的事情不會有趣不協調發揮作用的地方是, 日常幽默是現實範圍內的幽默“我的老闆總是告訴我該做什麼”是吧那可能會發生, 那就是現實範圍內的幽默這裡是牛仔對牛說：“非常好! 我希望在找到5000個像你這樣的牛”我們都明白這, 雖然奇怪些, 我們將它倆歸為一類這裡是荒誕範圍：”該死, 霍普金斯, 你沒看到昨天的備忘錄嗎?”它有點讓人迷惑, 不是嗎? 幽默沒有很快浮現總體上, 喜歡荒誕的人會喜歡抽象的藝術他們傾向自由主義, 比較不保守, 或者類似的但是對於我們, 對於我, 幫助設計這些幽默並沒有必要去比較它們這就像是一個大雜燴, 讓所有事情變得有趣.因此, 我要利用一個漫畫的文句來做個總結我認為這可以將所有關於紐約客的漫畫彙總起來""這真的可以讓你停下來思考, 對吧?""(笑聲)從現在起, 當你在看紐約客的漫畫時希望你們可以停下來多思考一下其背後的意涵謝謝(掌聲)"
