Talk	en	zh-tw
boghuma_kabisen_titanji_ethical_riddles_in_hiv_research	I'd like to share with you the story of one of my patients called Celine. Celine is a housewife and lives in a rural district of Cameroon in west Central Africa. Six years ago, at the time of her HIV diagnosis, she was recruited to participate in the clinical trial which was running in her health district at the time. When I first met Celine, a little over a year ago, she had gone for 18 months without any antiretroviral therapy, and she was very ill. She told me that she stopped coming to the clinic when the trial ended because she had no money for the bus fare and was too ill to walk the 35-kilometer distance. Now during the clinical trial, she'd been given all her antiretroviral drugs free of charge, and her transportation costs had been covered by the research funds. All of these ended once the trial was completed, leaving Celine with no alternatives. She was unable to tell me the names of the drugs she'd received during the trial, or even what the trial had been about. I didn't bother to ask her what the results of the trial were because it seemed obvious to me that she would have no clue. Yet what puzzled me most was Celine had given her informed consent to be a part of this trial, yet she clearly did not understand the implications of being a participant or what would happen to her once the trial had been completed. Now, I have shared this story with you as an example of what can happen to participants in the clinical trial when it is poorly conducted. Maybe this particular trial yielded exciting results. Maybe it even got published in a high-profile scientific journal. Maybe it would inform clinicians around the world on how to improve on the clinical management of HIV patients. But it would have done so at a price to hundreds of patients who, like Celine, were left to their own devices once the research had been completed. I do not stand here today to suggest in any way that conducting HIV clinical trials in developing countries is bad. On the contrary, clinical trials are extremely useful tools, and are much needed to address the burden of disease in developing countries. However, the inequalities that exist between richer countries and developing countries in terms of funding pose a real risk for exploitation, especially in the context of externally-funded research. Sadly enough, the fact remains that a lot of the studies that are conducted in developing countries could never be authorized in the richer countries which fund the research. I'm sure you must be asking yourselves what makes developing countries, especially those in sub-Saharan Africa, so attractive for these HIV clinical trials? Well, in order for a clinical trial to generate valid and widely applicable results, they need to be conducted with large numbers of study participants and preferably on a population with a high incidence of new HIV infections. Sub-Saharan Africa largely fits this description, with 22 million people living with HIV, an estimated 70 percent of the 30 million people who are infected worldwide. Also, research within the continent is a lot easier to conduct due to widespread poverty, endemic diseases and inadequate health care systems. A clinical trial that is considered to be potentially beneficial to the population is more likely to be authorized, and in the absence of good health care systems, almost any offer of medical assistance is accepted as better than nothing. Even more problematic reasons include lower risk of litigation, less rigorous ethical reviews, and populations that are willing to participate in almost any study that hints at a cure. As funding for HIV research increases in developing countries and ethical review in richer countries become more strict, you can see why this context becomes very, very attractive. The high prevalence of HIV drives researchers to conduct research that is sometimes scientifically acceptable but on many levels ethically questionable. How then can we ensure that, in our search for the cure, we do not take an unfair advantage of those who are already most affected by the pandemic? I invite you to consider four areas I think we can focus on in order to improve the way in which things are done. The first of these is informed consent. Now, in order for a clinical trial to be considered ethically acceptable, participants must be given the relevant information in a way in which they can understand, and must freely consent to participate in the trial. This is especially important in developing countries, where a lot of participants consent to research because they believe it is the only way in which they can receive medical care or other benefits. Consent procedures that are used in richer countries are often inappropriate or ineffective in a lot of developing countries. For example, it is counterintuitive to have an illiterate study participant, like Celine, sign a lengthy consent form that they are unable to read, let alone understand. Local communities need to be more involved in establishing the criteria for recruiting participants in clinical trials, as well as the incentives for participation. The information in these trials needs to be given to the potential participants in linguistically and culturally acceptable formats. The second point I would like for you to consider is the standard of care that is provided to participants within any clinical trial. Now, this is subject to a lot of debate and controversy. Should the control group in the clinical trial be given the best current treatment which is available anywhere in the world? Or should they be given an alternative standard of care, such as the best current treatment available in the country in which the research is being conducted? Is it fair to evaluate a treatment regimen which may not be affordable or accessible to the study participants once the research has been completed? Now, in a situation where the best current treatment is inexpensive and simple to deliver, the answer is straightforward. However, the best current treatment available anywhere in the world is often very difficult to provide in developing countries. It is important to assess the potential risks and benefits of the standard of care which is to be provided to participants in any clinical trial, and establish one which is relevant for the context of the study and most beneficial for the participants within the study. That brings us to the third point I want you think about: the ethical review of research. An effective system for reviewing the ethical suitability of clinical trials is primordial to safeguard participants within any clinical trial. Unfortunately, this is often lacking or inefficient in a lot of developing countries. Local governments need to set up effective systems for reviewing the ethical issues around the clinical trials which are authorized in different developing countries, and they need to do this by setting up ethical review committees that are independent of the government and research sponsors. Public accountability needs to be promoted through transparency and independent review by nongovernmental and international organizations as appropriate. The final point I would like for you to consider tonight is what happens to participants in the clinical trial once the research has been completed. I think it is absolutely wrong for research to begin in the first place without a clear plan for what would happen to the participants once the trial has ended. Now, researchers need to make every effort to ensure that an intervention that has been shown to be beneficial during a clinical trial is accessible to the participants of the trial once the trial has been completed. In addition, they should be able to consider the possibility of introducing and maintaining effective treatments in the wider community once the trial ends. If, for any reason, they feel that this might not be possible, then I think they should have to ethically justify why the clinical trial should be conducted in the first place. Now, fortunately for Celine, our meeting did not end in my office. I was able to get her enrolled into a free HIV treatment program closer to her home, and with a support group to help her cope. Her story has a positive ending, but there are thousands of others in similar situations who are much less fortunate. Although she may not know this, my encounter with Celine has completely changed the way in which I view HIV clinical trials in developing countries, and made me even more determined to be part of the movement to change the way in which things are done. I believe that every single person listening to me tonight can be part of that change. If you are a researcher, I hold you to a higher standard of moral conscience, to remain ethical in your research, and not compromise human welfare in your search for answers. If you work for a funding agency or pharmaceutical company, I challenge you to hold your employers to fund research that is ethically sound. If you come from a developing country like myself, I urge you to hold your government to a more thorough review of the clinical trials which are authorized in your country. Yes, there is a need for us to find a cure for HIV, to find an effective vaccine for malaria, to find a diagnostic tool that works for T.B., but I believe that we owe it to those who willingly and selflessly consent to participate in these clinical trials to do this in a humane way. Thank you.	我想與你們分享我的病人之一，席琳的故事 席琳是一個生活在農村地區的家庭主婦中非西部的喀麥隆六年前，當時她被診斷出患有愛滋病毒她就被吸收參加當時的健康區域進行的臨床試驗一年多以前，當我第一次見到席琳她已經過了 18 個月沒有任何的抗逆轉錄病毒治療的日子而且她病得很厲害她告訴我她已經不去診所了當試驗結束的時候因為她沒有錢買車票而且太虛弱走不完 35 公里的路因為在臨床試驗中她可以免費得到抗逆轉錄病毒藥物和交通費這些都由研究經費支出但是只要這個試驗完成結束席琳就別無選擇只好離開她無法告訴我在治療期間藥物的名稱甚至這個試驗的相關資訊我根本毋需刻意去問她試驗的結果很明顯地，她也沒有任何線索但我最困惑的是席琳簽署了一份知情同意書作為試驗的一部分，但她顯然不明白作為一個參與者的含義或一旦試驗完成會產生什麼樣的結果 現在，我分享這個故事給你們做個例子有關在臨床試驗中進行得不順利的參與者會發生什麼事也許這個特別的試驗產生了令人振奮的成果也許可以在高知名度的科學雜誌上發表也許它告知了全世界的臨床醫生如何提升對愛滋病毒患者的臨床管理但這樣做的代價是數百名像席琳的患者,讓他們自生自滅一旦研究已經完成 我今天站在這裡，不是指出在在發展中國家進行愛滋臨床試驗是壞事相反地，臨床試驗在發展中國家對於公諸大眾這疾病所造成的負擔,是有急迫需要並且是極其有用的工具但是，不平等的現象還是存在於富裕國家和發展中國家，就資金而言構成實際的開發風險尤其是在外部資金研究的情況下令人遺憾的是，事實上仍然存在於在發展中國家進行的很多研究永遠不可能在較富裕的國家中得到批准因為他們提供了研究的資金 我肯定你必須問自己什麼使得發展中國家特別是在撒哈拉以南的非洲地區對於這些愛滋病毒臨床試驗有如此大的吸引力？嗯，在臨床試驗中，為了產生有效和廣泛適用的結果他們需要大量的參與者來進行研究最好是在新愛滋病毒感染發生率高的人口地區撒哈拉以南的非洲最符合這種條件有 2千2百萬人感染了愛滋病毒估計是全世界3千萬愛滋病感染者的百分之七十另外，在非洲大陸內很容易在普遍貧窮、地方疾病與衛生保健系統不足的地區進行研究一項被認為對居民可能有利的臨床試驗更容易在沒有良好衛生保健系統下獲得認可幾乎任何醫療援助提供都會被接受，因為總比沒有好即使當中有更多的問題,像是為了降低訴訟風險不嚴格的倫理道德審查和願意參加的人員幾乎在任何暗示得以治癒的研究中當愛滋病毒的研究經費在發展中國家不斷增加富有國家倫理審查變得更嚴格您可以看到為什麼這事情變得非常、非常有吸引力 愛滋病的高患病率趨使研究者進行有時候是科學上可接受的研究但其道德在多數層面上值得質疑我們又如何確保，在我們尋求治癒的同時我們沒有不當受益於那些來自於已深受感染的病患為了改善這些事情完成的方式請你們考慮專心注意的四個領域 第一是知情同意書現在，為了臨床試驗可以在道德上被接受參與者必須被告知他們可以理解的相關資訊和必須自由同意參加試驗。這在發展中國家尤其重要很多參與研究者同意做研究因為他們認為這是可以得到醫療或其他福利的唯一途徑富有國家中使用的同意流程常常不適用於很多的發展中國家或起不了作用例如，這是違反常理的研究參與者是文盲，像席琳簽署冗長的知情同意書，而他們卻都無法閱讀更不用說瞭解當地社區需要多人參與來建立吸收臨床試驗參與者的標準以及參與者的動機這些試驗中的資訊需要在口頭上告知且以文化上可接受的方式來通知可能的參與者 第二點，我想請你們考慮的是提供給任何臨床試驗參與者的治療標準現在，這很容易引起辯論和爭議臨床試驗中的對照組是否應該給予全世界最好的治療？或者是，他們應當被給予一個替代標準的治療?如正在進行研究中的國家可行的當前最佳治療?一旦研究完成參與者可能不是都有機會得到治療而來評估治療方案，這公平嗎?現在，有一種當前最佳的治療廉價而且容易提供答案就很明確了但是，這種全世界都有的當前最佳治療，但就是很難在發展中國家中提供評估照顧標準的潛在風險和利益，以提供給任何參加臨床試驗的參與者並且建立一個與研究範圍內有關並對在研究範圍內對參與者最有利的醫療照顧是很重要的 接下來我要提出第三點就是研究的倫理審查臨床試驗的審查道德適用性的有效制度對保障任何臨床試驗參與者而言是最根本的不幸的，這通常在發展中國家非常欠缺或是效率很低地方政府需要建立有效的系統以審查臨床試驗的倫理議題系統在不同的發展中國家授權而且他們需要建立一個非政府與研究贊助者的道德審查委員會公共受托責任需要經由透明和獨立的審查的非政府和國際組織來推動較為適當 最後一點，我想請你們今晚考慮一下的就是一旦研究已經完成臨床試驗中的參加者會發生什麼情況我認為一開始就沒有明確的計畫這個研究是絕對錯誤的因為也不知道一旦臨床試驗結束參與試驗者會發生什麼事現在，研究人員需要盡一切努力來確保已被證明在臨床試驗期間的介入是有益的就是一旦試驗完成參與者的狀況是可以被追蹤的到。此外，他們應能夠考慮引進和維護有效治療方法的可能性在更廣泛的社會中，一旦試驗結束。如果出於任何原因，他們覺得這是不可能的那麼，我認為他們應該在道德上證明臨床試驗的進行為什麼應該被放在第一位是正當的。 現在，幸運的是對於席琳，我們的見面並未在我的辦公室結束。我能讓她登記免費的愛滋病毒治療方案離她家很近還有支援小組來幫她應付。她的故事有一個正面的結局，但還有數以千計的人在類似情況下沒這麼幸運。 雖然她可能不知道這一點，我和席琳的相遇完全改變了我對發展中國家愛滋病毒臨床試驗的看法並讓我更確定成為活動的一份子去改變目前既定的事實與作法。 我相信，每一個人今晚聽過我的談話就可以成為這種改變的一份子。如果你是一位研究人員，我會對你寄望更高的道德良知標準，在你的研究中保持著倫理而非在你尋求的答案中與人類福利妥協。如果你為資助機構或製藥公司工作，我對你會認為你的雇主資助研究是合乎倫理道德的感到質疑。如果你像我一樣，來自發展中國家我力勸您要求您的政府對臨床試驗進行更徹底的審查這在你的國家是允許的是的，我們需要找到治療愛滋病毒的方法和治療瘧疾的有效疫苗為結核病尋找診斷工具但我相信我們應把它歸功於那些心甘情願地和無私地同意參加這些臨床試驗的人以人道的方式來進行 謝謝。
