Talk	en	zh-tw
brenda_brathwaite_gaming_for_understanding	"When we think of games, there's all kinds of things. Maybe you're ticked off, or maybe, you're looking forward to a new game. You've been up too late playing a game. All these things happen to me. But when we think about games, a lot of times we think about stuff like this: first-person shooters, or the big, what we would call AAA games, or maybe you're a Facebook game player. This is one my partner and I worked on. Maybe you play Facebook games, and that's what we're making right now. This is a lighter form of game. Maybe you think about the tragically boring board games that hold us hostage in Thanksgiving situations. This would be one of the tragically boring board games that you can figure out. Or maybe you're in your living room, playing with the Wii with the kids, and there's this whole range of games, and that's very much what I think about. I make my living from games, I've been lucky enough to do this since I was 15, which also qualifies as I've never really had a real job. But we think about games as fun, and that's completely reasonable, but let's just think about this. So this one here, this is the 1980 Olympics. Now I don't know where you guys were, but I was in my living room. It was practically a religious event. And this is when the Americans beat the Russians, and this was — yes, it was technically a game. Hockey is a game. But really, was this a game? I mean, people cried. I've never seen my mother cry like that at the end of Monopoly. (Laughter) And so this was an amazing experience. Or, if anybody here is from Boston — So when the Boston Red Sox won the World Series after I believe, 351 years — (Laughter) when they won the World Series, it was amazing. I happened to be living in Springfield at the time, and the best part of it was, you would close the women's door in the bathroom, and I remember seeing ""Go Sox,"" and I thought, really? Or the houses, you'd come out, because every game, well, I think almost every game, went into overtime, right? So we'd be outside, and all the other lights are on in the whole block. And kids — the attendance was down in school, kids weren't going to school, but it's OK, it's the Red Sox, right? I mean, there's education, and then there's the Red Sox, and we know where they're stacked. So this was an amazing experience, and again, yes, it was a game, but they didn't write newspaper articles, people didn't say, ""You know, really, I can die now, because the Red Sox won."" And many people did. So games, it means something more to us. It absolutely means something more. So now, this is an abrupt transition here. There was three years where I actually did have a real job, sort of. I was the head of a college department teaching games, so, again, it was sort of a real job, and now I got to talk about making them as opposed to making them. Part of the job of it, when you're a chair of a department, is to eat, and I did that very well — and so I'm out at a dinner with this guy called Zig Jackson. So this is Zig in this photograph, this is also one of Zig's photographs. He's a photographer. And he goes all around the country taking pictures of himself, and you can see here he's got Zig's Indian Reservation. And this particular shot — this is one of the more traditional shots. This is a rain dancer. And this is one of my favorite shots here. So you can look at this, and maybe you've even seen things like this. This is an expression of culture, right? And this is actually from his Degradation series. And what was most fascinating to me about this series is just, look at that little boy there, can you imagine? We can see that's a traditional Native American. Now I just want to change that guy's race. Just imagine if that's a black guy. So, ""Honey, come here, let's get you a picture with the black guy."" Right? Like, seriously, nobody would do this. It baffles the mind. And so Zig, being Indian, likewise it baffles his mind. His favorite photograph — my favorite photograph of his, which I don't have in here — is Indian taking picture of white people taking pictures of Indians. (Laughter) So I happen to be at dinner with this photographer, and he was talking with another photographer about a shooting that had occurred, and it was on an Indian Reservation. He'd taken his camera up there to photograph it, but when he got there, he discovered he couldn't do it. He just couldn't capture the picture. And so they were talking back and forth about this question. Do you take the picture or not? And that was fascinating to me as a game designer, because it never occurs to me, should I make the game about this difficult topic or not? Because we just make things that are fun or will make you feel fear, that visceral excitement. But every other medium does it. So this is my kid. This is Maezza, and when she was seven years old, she came home from school one day, and like I do every single day, I asked her, ""What did you do today?"" So she said, ""We talked about the Middle Passage."" Now, this was a big moment. Maezza's dad is black, and I knew this day was coming. I wasn't expecting it at seven, I don't know why, but I wasn't. Anyways, so I asked her, ""How do you feel about that?"" So she proceeded to tell me, and so any of you who are parents will recognize the bingo buzzwords here. ""The ships start in England, they come down from England, they go to Africa, they go across the ocean — that's the Middle Passage part — they come to America, where the slaves are sold,"" she's telling me. But Abraham Lincoln was elected president, and then he passed the Emancipation Proclamation, and now they're free. Pause for about 10 seconds. ""Can I play a game, Mommy?"" And I thought, that's it? And so, you know, this is the Middle Passage, this is an incredibly significant event, and she's treating it like, basically some black people went on a cruise, this is more or less how it sounds to her. (Laughter) And so, to me, I wanted more value in this, so when she asked if she could play a game, I said, ""Yes."" (Laughter) And so I happened to have all of these little pieces. I'm a game designer, so I have this stuff sitting around my house. I said, ""Yeah, you can play a game,"" and I give her a bunch of these, and I tell her to paint them in different families. These are pictures of Maezza when she was — God, it still chokes me up seeing these. So she's painting her little families. So then I grab a bunch of them and I put them on a boat. This was the boat, it was made quickly, obviously. And so the basic gist of it is, I grabbed a bunch of families, and she's like, ""Mommy, but you forgot the pink baby and you forgot the blue daddy and you forgot all these other things."" And she says, ""They want to go."" And I said, ""Honey, no, they don't want to go. This is the Middle Passage, Nobody wants to go on the Middle Passage."" So she gave me a look that only a daughter of a game designer would give a mother, and as we're going across the ocean, following these rules, she realizes that she's rolling pretty high, and she says to me, ""We're not going to make it."" And she realizes, we don't have enough food, and so she asks what to do, and I say — remember, she's seven — ""We can either put some people in the water or we can hope that they don't get sick and we make it to the other side."" Just the look on her face came over — now mind you this is after a month of — this is Black History Month, right? After a month, she says to me, ""Did this really happen?"" And I said, ""Yes."" And so she said — this is her brother and sister — ""If I came out of the woods, Avalon and Donovan might be gone."" ""Yes."" ""But I'd get to see them in America."" ""No."" ""But what if I saw them? Couldn't we stay together?"" ""So Daddy could be gone."" ""Yes."" She was fascinated by this, and she started to cry, I started to cry, her father started to cry, and now we're all crying. He didn't expect to come home from work to the Middle Passage, but there it goes. And so, we made this game, and she got it. She got it because she spent time with these people. It wasn't abstract stuff in a brochure or in a movie. And so it was just an incredibly powerful experience. This is the game, which I've ended up calling ""The New World,"" because I like the phrase. I don't think the New World felt too new worldly exciting to the people who were brought over on slave ships. But when this happened, I saw the whole planet; I was so excited. I'd been making games for 20-some years, and then I decided to do it again. My history is Irish. So this is a game called ""Síochán Leat."" It's ""peace be with you."" It's the entire history of my family in a single game. I made another game called ""Train."" I was making a series of six games that covered difficult topics, and if you're going to cover a difficult topic, this is one you need to cover, and I'll let you figure out what that's about on your own. And I also made a game about the Trail of Tears. This is a game with 50,000 individual pieces. I was crazy when I decided to start it, but I'm in the middle of it now. It's the same thing. I'm hoping that I'll teach culture through these games. And the one I'm working on right now, which is — because I'm right in the middle of it, and these for some reason choke me up like crazy — is a game called ""Mexican Kitchen Workers."" And originally, it was a math problem, more or less. Here's the economics of illegal immigration. And the more I learned about Mexican culture — my partner is Mexican — the more I learned that, you know, for all of us, food is a basic need, and it is obviously with Mexicans, too, but it's much more than that. It's an expression of love. It's an expression of — God, I'm totally choking up way more than I thought. I'll look away from the picture. It's an expression of beauty, it's how they say they love you. It's how they say they care, and you can't hear somebody talk about their Mexican grandmother without saying ""food"" in the first sentence. And so to me, this beautiful culture, this beautiful expression is something that I want to capture through games. And so games, for a change, it changes how we see topics, it changes our perceptions about those people in topics, and it changes ourselves. We change as people through games, because we're involved, and we're playing, and we're learning as we do so. Thank you."	對於遊戲，每個人的感受都不同你可能興趣缺缺，也可能期待玩新遊戲或者你為了玩遊戲而熬夜太久這些經驗我都有過但是一說到遊戲，大家常想到的就是第一人稱射擊或是大受歡迎又稱為 AAA 的熱門遊戲或者你玩的是 Facebook 遊戲這就是我和我的夥伴以前做的一款遊戲如果你玩的是 Facebook 遊戲，我們現在正在製作這個規模較小的遊戲你也許想到無聊斃了的桌遊那些感恩節時不得不玩的遊戲這可能就是窮極無聊的桌遊之一你可能已經想到了或者你在客廳裡跟小孩玩 Wii 或類似的遊戲現在你知道遊戲的種類極多而這些就是我每天在想的東西因為遊戲是我的職業我有幸在 15 歲那年就踏進這個產業也就是說我至今沒做過一份真正的工作 遊戲在我們眼中就是好玩，這完全可以理解不過，我們來想想這些狀況這個是 1980 年奧運我不知道你們當年怎樣但我可是以宗教般的狂熱在客廳裡鎖定電視這是當年美國打敗俄羅斯的瞬間真是難以言喻對，運動也是一種遊戲冰上曲棍球也是種遊戲但這真的只是一場遊戲嗎？我是說，觀眾都哭了耶我從沒看過我媽在玩完大富翁時哭所以這真的是很震撼的體驗 或者要是這裡有人來自波士頓在波士頓紅襪隊贏得世錦賽終結我想是長達 351 年的飲恨紀錄時他們贏得世錦賽的那一刻，極為美妙當時我剛好住在 Springfield記得最棒的就是在女廁關上門我記得都能看到「紅襪隊加油！」我想不會吧？這也太誇張了！連家裡都沒人在，因為每場比賽嗯，我想幾乎每場比賽都打到延長賽，對吧？所以我們都在外面，整條街的燈都亮著學校出席率也下降，連小孩也不例外因為孩子們不去上學但都沒關係，因為這是紅襪隊耶，對嗎？一邊是上學一邊是紅襪隊在我們心中地位高下立判所以這是很美好的經驗，而這也是一場遊戲，即便報紙上沒報導當時人們說「我現在死而無憾」「因為紅襪隊終於贏了」，許多人真是這樣想 因此遊戲，對我們的意義更深在我們心裡的意義比想像中複雜 現在讓我作個有點突兀的轉折我曾經擁有一份認真的職位三年我擔任某大學的系主任教作遊戲，所以勉強算是認真的工作只是我作有關遊戲的演講，而不是製作遊戲有天我出席一個晚宴吃飯常是系主任的工作內容，我也超在行的我正和一個叫 Zig Jackson 的人吃飯這是 Zig，這也是 Zig 照的相片他是位攝影家他走片全國到處攝影在這張圖中是 Zig 的印地安部落而這一張照片，算是比較傳統的構圖這是一位祈雨舞者 這是我最喜愛的照片之一你也許看過類似的照片這是文化的表現，不是嗎?但這其實出自他的「羞辱」系列作品這系列作品讓我感興趣的昰看看那位小男孩想像一下，現在他是位美國印地安人現在我要更改他的種族想像他是位黑人「親愛的，來和這位黑人照相」沒有任何人會這麼做如此行為令人不解所以Zig，身為印地安人一樣無法了解這種行為他最喜歡的一張相片也是我最愛的相片，我沒放在這裡是一位印第安人拍攝白人拍攝印地安人的照片 (笑聲) 所以我剛好和這位攝影師吃飯而他正和另一位攝影師談話討論最近完成的攝影工作工作地點是在印第安保留區他帶了相機準備拍攝，但當他抵達時他發現他做不到，他沒辦法按下快門所以他們倆來回地討論這個問題到底該不該照相?身為遊戲設計師，我對這話題極感興趣因為我從來沒想過我該不該創作有關敏感議題的遊戲?因為我們只是這做些好玩的東西而已或是讓人感到害怕、打從骨裡地興奮但任何其它媒介都面臨這個難題 這是我女兒，她叫 Maezza她七歲那年，有一天從學校回來我一如過往地問 :妳今天在學校做了些什麼啊?她說 : 「今天老師教中間航道」譯註: 中間航道 (Middle Passage) 奴隸貿易航線 這一刻意義非凡，因為 Maezza 的爸爸是黑人我早知這一刻會到來，但沒想到她七歲就接觸到了我不知道為什麼，我覺得太早 所以我問她 : 「那妳認為呢?」 她就跟我說，你們若也是家長一定會認出那些像賓果般的用詞她說: 那些船從英國起駛，往下走到了非洲，再橫越海洋那就是中間航道的意思，然後抵達美國然後奴隸在美國被賣掉但是林肯選上總統後他通過解放奴隸宣言，然後他們就自由了 她頓了大概十秒 「媽咪，我可以去玩遊戲了嗎?」 我心想，就這樣?這是中間航道，一個歷史意義重大的事件而她卻把它想成像是一群黑人坐遊輪到處玩一般 (笑聲)對我而言，我希望這能更具意義所以當她問我可不可以玩遊戲時，我說「可以」(笑聲) 我剛好有一些小零件我是遊戲設計師，所以家裡一堆這類東西我說:「我們來玩個遊戲」我把零件給她，並讓她上色作為不同家庭這是 Maezza 當時的照片天啊，我現在看到依然哽咽所以她做好了這些小家庭我拿了一些並把他們放在船上這就是船，看得出是趕工出來的 (笑聲)所以基本上，我隨便抓一把不同家庭她說 : 「媽咪，你忘了粉紅色的寶寶和藍色的爸爸」「你忘了其他的人」「他們也想上船」我回答:「甜心，他們不會想走。這是中間航道」「沒人想渡過中間航道」於是她瞪了我一眼只有遊戲設計師的女兒會給媽媽這種臉色於是我們依照遊戲規則，慢慢橫越海洋她意識到她的花費太大她跟我說:「我們到不了終點」她意識到船上的食物不夠吃了她問我該怎麼辦，我說:記得，她才七歲「我們可以把一些人丟到水裡或是我們可以寄望他們不會生病並勉強活的到彼岸。」而她，她的臉整個垮了下來她說， - - 記得，這是經過一整個月一個月的「黑人歷史月」教育她竟問我:「這些事是真的嗎?」我說是。於是她說:「如果我活的抵達， Avalon 和 Donovan 」- -她的弟弟妹妹- -「他們可能會不見?」「是啊」「但是我在美國就會看到他們了」「不會」「我如果找到他們，我們可以在一起嗎?」「不行」「所以爸爸有可能會不見」「是啊」她入戯很深，開始哭了然後我也跟著哭，她爸爸也哭了我們一家人哭成一團他完全沒想到下班回家會遇上中間航道但事經如此 (笑聲) 所以經由玩遊戲，我女兒終於明白了她之所以了解是因為她花時間和這些人相處而不是像電影或教材中的抽象概念 所以才會是個如此難忘的經驗這個遊戲，我最後命名為「新世界」純粹因為我喜歡這名字我並不以為，對於那些飄洋過海的黑奴來說這新世界有任何值得興奮之處 但是經由這個遊戲，我發現了一個全新世界我好興奮。有如我雖然創作遊戲二十幾年了現在卻可以重新來過的熱情我祖先是愛爾蘭人這個遊戲名為 Síochán Leat 「願和平與你常在」這遊戲涵蓋了我整個家族歷史 (譯註: 愛爾蘭移民史) 我創作了另一個遊戲叫做「火車」我那時正在做一系列的六個遊戲專門探討令人難以啟齒的歷史議題而這個議題正是急需討論的議題之一我讓你自己猜猜看「火車」的主題是什麼 我也做了一個關於「血淚之路」的遊戲譯註: Trail of tears，印第安切羅基人受迫西遷這是個包含五萬個元件的遊戲我決定開始做這遊戲時一定是瘋了但是我現在仍在製作過程中這些遊戲都一樣我希望能夠透過它們教導文化 而另一個我現在正在製作的遊戲，它是- -因為我正埋首其中，講一下我就會哽咽 —這個遊戲叫「墨西哥廚工」一開始它比較像是個數學問題描述非法移民的經濟問題但是我對於墨西哥文化了解愈多 —我的伴侶是墨裔 — 我愈了解到對所有人而言，食物是基本需求對墨西哥人來說含意更深它是一種愛的表示，它是一種 —天啊，我比預期中的還要容易想哭我不要看照片好了它是一種美的表示，是他們說我愛你的方式他們的民族就是如此你無法聽一個人描述他的墨西哥祖母而不在第一句提到「食物」二字對我來說，這美麗的文化，美麗的表達方式就是我想要透過遊戲所傳達的 所以遊戲能夠改變我們對事物的看法改變我們對人們和議題的觀感並且改變我們本身透過遊戲，我們每一個人都會蛻變因為我們參與其中，認真玩並同時學習。謝謝。(掌聲)
