Talk	en	zh-tw
brian_goldman_doctors_make_mistakes_can_we_talk_about_that	"I think we have to do something about a piece of the culture of medicine that has to change. And I think it starts with one physician, and that's me. And maybe I've been around long enough that I can afford to give away some of my false prestige to be able to do that. Before I actually begin the meat of my talk, let's begin with a bit of baseball. Hey, why not? We're near the end, we're getting close to the World Series. We all love baseball, don't we? (Laughter) Baseball is filled with some amazing statistics. And there's hundreds of them. ""Moneyball"" is about to come out, and it's all about statistics and using statistics to build a great baseball team. I'm going to focus on one stat that I hope a lot of you have heard of. It's called batting average. So we talk about a 300, a batter who bats 300. That means that ballplayer batted safely, hit safely three times out of 10 at bats. That means hit the ball into the outfield, it dropped, it didn't get caught, and whoever tried to throw it to first base didn't get there in time and the runner was safe. Three times out of 10. Do you know what they call a 300 hitter in Major League Baseball? Good, really good, maybe an all-star. Do you know what they call a 400 baseball hitter? That's somebody who hit, by the way, four times safely out of every 10. Legendary — as in Ted Williams legendary — the last Major League Baseball player to hit over 400 during a regular season. Now let's take this back into my world of medicine where I'm a lot more comfortable, or perhaps a bit less comfortable after what I'm going to talk to you about. Suppose you have appendicitis and you're referred to a surgeon who's batting 400 on appendectomies. (Laughter) Somehow this isn't working out, is it? Now suppose you live in a certain part of a certain remote place and you have a loved one who has blockages in two coronary arteries and your family doctor refers that loved one to a cardiologist who's batting 200 on angioplasties. But, but, you know what? She's doing a lot better this year. She's on the comeback trail. And she's hitting a 257. Somehow this isn't working. But I'm going to ask you a question. What do you think a batting average for a cardiac surgeon or a nurse practitioner or an orthopedic surgeon, an OBGYN, a paramedic is supposed to be? 1,000, very good. Now truth of the matter is, nobody knows in all of medicine what a good surgeon or physician or paramedic is supposed to bat. What we do though is we send each one of them, including myself, out into the world with the admonition, be perfect. Never ever, ever make a mistake, but you worry about the details, about how that's going to happen. And that was the message that I absorbed when I was in med school. I was an obsessive compulsive student. In high school, a classmate once said that Brian Goldman would study for a blood test. (Laughter) And so I did. And I studied in my little garret at the nurses' residence at Toronto General Hospital, not far from here. And I memorized everything. I memorized in my anatomy class the origins and exertions of every muscle, every branch of every artery that came off the aorta, differential diagnoses obscure and common. I even knew the differential diagnosis in how to classify renal tubular acidosis. And all the while, I was amassing more and more knowledge. And I did well, I graduated with honors, cum laude. And I came out of medical school with the impression that if I memorized everything and knew everything, or as much as possible, as close to everything as possible, that it would immunize me against making mistakes. And it worked for a while, until I met Mrs. Drucker. I was a resident at a teaching hospital here in Toronto when Mrs. Drucker was brought to the emergency department of the hospital where I was working. At the time I was assigned to the cardiology service on a cardiology rotation. And it was my job, when the emergency staff called for a cardiology consult, to see that patient in emerg. and to report back to my attending. And I saw Mrs. Drucker, and she was breathless. And when I listened to her, she was making a wheezy sound. And when I listened to her chest with a stethoscope, I could hear crackly sounds on both sides that told me that she was in congestive heart failure. This is a condition in which the heart fails, and instead of being able to pump all the blood forward, some of the blood backs up into the lung, the lungs fill up with blood, and that's why you have shortness of breath. And that wasn't a difficult diagnosis to make. I made it and I set to work treating her. I gave her aspirin. I gave her medications to relieve the strain on her heart. I gave her medications that we call diuretics, water pills, to get her to pee out the access fluid. And over the course of the next hour and a half or two, she started to feel better. And I felt really good. And that's when I made my first mistake; I sent her home. Actually, I made two more mistakes. I sent her home without speaking to my attending. I didn't pick up the phone and do what I was supposed to do, which was call my attending and run the story by him so he would have a chance to see her for himself. And he knew her, he would have been able to furnish additional information about her. Maybe I did it for a good reason. Maybe I didn't want to be a high-maintenance resident. Maybe I wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that I would do so and I would be able to take care of my attending's patients without even having to contact him. The second mistake that I made was worse. In sending her home, I disregarded a little voice deep down inside that was trying to tell me, ""Goldman, not a good idea. Don't do this."" In fact, so lacking in confidence was I that I actually asked the nurse who was looking after Mrs. Drucker, ""Do you think it's okay if she goes home?"" And the nurse thought about it and said very matter-of-factly, ""Yeah, I think she'll do okay."" I can remember that like it was yesterday. So I signed the discharge papers, and an ambulance came, paramedics came to take her home. And I went back to my work on the wards. All the rest of that day, that afternoon, I had this kind of gnawing feeling inside my stomach. But I carried on with my work. And at the end of the day, I packed up to leave the hospital and walked to the parking lot to take my car and drive home when I did something that I don't usually do. I walked through the emergency department on my way home. And it was there that another nurse, not the nurse who was looking after Mrs. Drucker before, but another nurse, said three words to me that are the three words that most emergency physicians I know dread. Others in medicine dread them as well, but there's something particular about emergency medicine because we see patients so fleetingly. The three words are: Do you remember? ""Do you remember that patient you sent home?"" the other nurse asked matter-of-factly. ""Well she's back,"" in just that tone of voice. Well she was back all right. She was back and near death. About an hour after she had arrived home, after I'd sent her home, she collapsed and her family called 911 and the paramedics brought her back to the emergency department where she had a blood pressure of 50, which is in severe shock. And she was barely breathing and she was blue. And the emerg. staff pulled out all the stops. They gave her medications to raise her blood pressure. They put her on a ventilator. And I was shocked and shaken to the core. And I went through this roller coaster, because after they stabilized her, she went to the intensive care unit, and I hoped against hope that she would recover. And over the next two or three days, it was clear that she was never going to wake up. She had irreversible brain damage. And the family gathered. And over the course of the next eight or nine days, they resigned themselves to what was happening. And at about the nine day mark, they let her go — Mrs. Drucker, a wife, a mother and a grandmother. They say you never forget the names of those who die. And that was my first time to be acquainted with that. Over the next few weeks, I beat myself up and I experienced for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our culture of medicine — where I felt alone, isolated, not feeling the healthy kind of shame that you feel, because you can't talk about it with your colleagues. You know that healthy kind, when you betray a secret that a best friend made you promise never to reveal and then you get busted and then your best friend confronts you and you have terrible discussions, but at the end of it all that sick feeling guides you and you say, I'll never make that mistake again. And you make amends and you never make that mistake again. That's the kind of shame that is a teacher. The unhealthy shame I'm talking about is the one that makes you so sick inside. It's the one that says, not that what you did was bad, but that you are bad. And it was what I was feeling. And it wasn't because of my attending; he was a doll. He talked to the family, and I'm quite sure that he smoothed things over and made sure that I didn't get sued. And I kept asking myself these questions. Why didn't I ask my attending? Why did I send her home? And then at my worst moments: Why did I make such a stupid mistake? Why did I go into medicine? Slowly but surely, it lifted. I began to feel a bit better. And on a cloudy day, there was a crack in the clouds and the sun started to come out and I wondered, maybe I could feel better again. And I made myself a bargain that if only I redouble my efforts to be perfect and never make another mistake again, please make the voices stop. And they did. And I went back to work. And then it happened again. Two years later I was an attending in the emergency department at a community hospital just north of Toronto, and I saw a 25 year-old man with a sore throat. It was busy, I was in a bit of a hurry. He kept pointing here. I looked at his throat, it was a little bit pink. And I gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on his way. And even as he was walking out the door, he was still sort of pointing to his throat. And two days later I came to do my next emergency shift, and that's when my chief asked to speak to me quietly in her office. And she said the three words: Do you remember? ""Do you remember that patient you saw with the sore throat?"" Well it turns out, he didn't have a strep throat. He had a potentially life-threatening condition called epiglottitis. You can Google it, but it's an infection, not of the throat, but of the upper airway, and it can actually cause the airway to close. And fortunately he didn't die. He was placed on intravenous antibiotics and he recovered after a few days. And I went through the same period of shame and recriminations and felt cleansed and went back to work, until it happened again and again and again. Twice in one emergency shift, I missed appendicitis. Now that takes some doing, especially when you work in a hospital that at the time saw but 14 people a night. Now in both cases, I didn't send them home and I don't think there was any gap in their care. One I thought had a kidney stone. I ordered a kidney X-ray. When it turned out to be normal, my colleague who was doing a reassessment of the patient noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant and called the surgeons. The other one had a lot of diarrhea. I ordered some fluids to rehydrate him and asked my colleague to reassess him. And he did and when he noticed some tenderness in the right lower quadrant, called the surgeons. In both cases, they had their operations and they did okay. But each time, they were gnawing at me, eating at me. And I'd like to be able to say to you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years of practice as many of my colleagues say, which is total B.S. (Laughter) Some of my doozies have been in the last five years. Alone, ashamed and unsupported. Here's the problem: If I can't come clean and talk about my mistakes, if I can't find the still-small voice that tells me what really happened, how can I share it with my colleagues? How can I teach them about what I did so that they don't do the same thing? If I were to walk into a room — like right now, I have no idea what you think of me. When was the last time you heard somebody talk about failure after failure after failure? Oh yeah, you go to a cocktail party and you might hear about some other doctor, but you're not going to hear somebody talking about their own mistakes. If I were to walk into a room filled with my colleages and ask for their support right now and start to tell what I've just told you right now, I probably wouldn't get through two of those stories before they would start to get really uncomfortable, somebody would crack a joke, they'd change the subject and we would move on. And in fact, if I knew and my colleagues knew that one of my orthopedic colleagues took off the wrong leg in my hospital, believe me, I'd have trouble making eye contact with that person. That's the system that we have. It's a complete denial of mistakes. It's a system in which there are two kinds of physicians — those who make mistakes and those who don't, those who can't handle sleep deprivation and those who can, those who have lousy outcomes and those who have great outcomes. And it's almost like an ideological reaction, like the antibodies begin to attack that person. And we have this idea that if we drive the people who make mistakes out of medicine, what will we be left with, but a safe system. But there are two problems with that. In my 20 years or so of medical broadcasting and journalism, I've made a personal study of medical malpractice and medical errors to learn everything I can, from one of the first articles I wrote for the Toronto Star to my show ""White Coat, Black Art."" And what I've learned is that errors are absolutely ubiquitous. We work in a system where errors happen every day, where one in 10 medications are either the wrong medication given in hospital or at the wrong dosage, where hospital-acquired infections are getting more and more numerous, causing havoc and death. In this country, as many as 24,000 Canadians die of preventable medical errors. In the United States, the Institute of Medicine pegged it at 100,000. In both cases, these are gross underestimates, because we really aren't ferreting out the problem as we should. And here's the thing. In a hospital system where medical knowledge is doubling every two or three years, we can't keep up with it. Sleep deprivation is absolutely pervasive. We can't get rid of it. We have our cognitive biases, so that I can take a perfect history on a patient with chest pain. Now take the same patient with chest pain, make them moist and garrulous and put a little bit of alcohol on their breath, and suddenly my history is laced with contempt. I don't take the same history. I'm not a robot; I don't do things the same way each time. And my patients aren't cars; they don't tell me their symptoms in the same way each time. Given all of that, mistakes are inevitable. So if you take the system, as I was taught, and weed out all the error-prone health professionals, well there won't be anybody left. And you know that business about people not wanting to talk about their worst cases? On my show, on ""White Coat, Black Art,"" I made it a habit of saying, ""Here's my worst mistake,"" I would say to everybody from paramedics to the chief of cardiac surgery, ""Here's my worst mistake,"" blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ""What about yours?"" and I would point the microphone towards them. And their pupils would dilate, they would recoil, then they would look down and swallow hard and start to tell me their stories. They want to tell their stories. They want to share their stories. They want to be able to say, ""Look, don't make the same mistake I did."" What they need is an environment to be able to do that. What they need is a redefined medical culture. And it starts with one physician at a time. The redefined physician is human, knows she's human, accepts it, isn't proud of making mistakes, but strives to learn one thing from what happened that she can teach to somebody else. She shares her experience with others. She's supportive when other people talk about their mistakes. And she points out other people's mistakes, not in a gotcha way, but in a loving, supportive way so that everybody can benefit. And she works in a culture of medicine that acknowledges that human beings run the system, and when human beings run the system, they will make mistakes from time to time. So the system is evolving to create backups that make it easier to detect those mistakes that humans inevitably make and also fosters in a loving, supportive way places where everybody who is observing in the health care system can actually point out things that could be potential mistakes and is rewarded for doing so, and especially people like me, when we do make mistakes, we're rewarded for coming clean. My name is Brian Goldman. I am a redefined physician. I'm human. I make mistakes. I'm sorry about that, but I strive to learn one thing that I can pass on to other people. I still don't know what you think of me, but I can live with that. And let me close with three words of my own: I do remember. (Applause)"	"我想我們該做些事去改變醫界一部份的文化我想該從一位醫生開始，就是我。我想我在這一行夠久了我承受得了失去一些虛名來做這樣的改變。 在我開始進入主題之前我們來談點棒球。嗯! 有何不可?球季就快結束，就要打到世界大賽了。我們都愛棒球，不是嗎？(笑聲)棒球有許多驚人的統計數據有上百個電影《魔球》就要上映，裡頭都在講統計數據和如何用統計數據來組成一隊棒球隊。 我要來談其中一項數據我希望在座有許多人聽過。叫做打擊率。我們說打擊率有三成的打者。是指這位打者,打擊很穩定每十次就有三次會打安打。能把球打去外野球會落在外野，不會被接殺不管誰試著要把球傳往一壘也來不及刺殺跑者會安全上壘。每十次中有三次可以打安打。各位知道在大聯盟裡怎麼說這些打擊率三成的打者好，真的很好。可以說是明星球員。各位知道他們又是如何稱呼一位打擊率四成的打者嗎？也就是一位每十次打擊就有四次打出安打的打者。是傳奇是像Ted Williams那樣的傳奇他是在球季大聯盟賽中最新傳奇球員,擁有超過四成打擊率的打者 現在回來談我的世界—醫療領域。這個主題我比較在行,但可能也有點困擾特別是在我的演說之後。假設各位得了盲腸炎而且交由一位執行盲腸炎手術有四成成功率的外科醫生。(笑聲)這聽起來不太行，對吧?現在假設你住在一個特定的偏遠地區你所鍾愛的人她的兩條冠狀動脈都有堵塞你的家庭醫師將你所鐘愛的人引介給一位心臟科醫師該醫師在心血管手術上有兩成的成功率。但是，等等 你知道嗎?她今年的成功率提高，她的水準又回來了。她有兩成五七的成功率。但是這樣還是不能被接受。 我現在要問各位一個問題各位認為所謂的""成功率""對一位心臟外科醫生或是職業護士或是整形外科醫生一位婦產科醫生，或一位合格的醫護人員應該是多少?十成，很好.。但事實上,沒有人知道在醫界一位好的外科醫生一位醫生，或護理人員應該""成功率""是多少.。而我們所做的是，讓他們每一位，包括我自己在世人眼前是訓練有素的，是完美的。從不會犯錯的.。但你還是會擔心，這是如何達成。 這是我在醫學院時所得到的訊息。我是一位有學習強迫症的學生在高中時，曾有同學說我會去學習血液檢驗學(笑聲)我的確去學了。我在多倫多總醫院護士宿舍的小閣樓學習離這裡不遠。我強記每一件事我背下解剖課時每一塊肌肉的來源，伸展方式每一條從主動脈延伸出來的小動脈和分支系統細分診斷上的隱蔽症狀，和通常症狀。我甚至知道鑑別診斷上要如何區分不同的腎小管酸中毒症這段時間我累積越來越多知識。 我表現良好，高分畢業拿到優等。我從醫學院畢業以為如果我記得每件事，知道每件事或幾乎記得所有全部的事,還有跟每件事情有關的也都記得,那我犯醫療錯誤機會就微乎其微。有好一段時間我的確沒有犯任何錯直到我遇見Drucker女士。 我當時是多倫多一間教學醫院的住院醫生當Drucker女士被送來我所工作醫院的急診室時。當時我在心臟科的輪調時被分配到心臟門診我的工作是當急診室人員尋求心臟科的諮詢時去急診室診斷病人再回來報告給我的主治。我見到Drucker女士，她當時呼吸困難當我跟她交談時,聽到她有喘息的聲音。當我用聽診器聽她的胸腔時我可以聽到兩邊都傳來爆裂的聲音這告訴我, 這是充血性心臟衰竭。這是造成心臟衰竭的原因之一心臟不能將血液往前輸送有部分的血液流回肺臟，肺裡充滿的血液,這也是造成呼吸短促的原因。 這在診斷上並不困難。我做了診斷，安排治療。我開了阿斯匹靈和一些藥物來減輕她心臟的收縮。我給她的藥物，是我們稱之為利尿劑，水丸幫助她將多餘的水分排出。接下來的一個半小時​​或兩小時她開始覺得好轉。我也感到高興。但那時我開始犯第一個錯我讓她回家。 事實上，我犯了兩個錯。我讓她回家前沒有告知我的上級主治醫生。我甚至沒有把電話機拿起，做我應該做的事就是打電話給主治醫生，報告整件事情。他原本有機會親自前來診斷。主治認識她,他可以提供更詳細的病情資料。也許我有我的理由。也許我不想成為一位老是被指導的住院醫生。也許我太想成功想證明我是可以獨當一面的我可以做,我有能力照護主治醫生的病人,而且不需要聯繫他。 但第二個錯誤是更嚴重的。讓她出院回家,我忽視心裡一個很小的聲音這個聲音試圖告訴我,「Goldman，這樣不對，別這麼做」。事實上，我當時沒什麼自信,所以我詢問了看顧Drucker女士的護士。「你覺得她回家好嗎？」然後護士想了一下,就事論事地說「嗯，我想她可以的。」在我記憶裡, 那就像是昨天發生的事。 所以我簽了出院文件救護車來了，醫務人員帶她回家。我回到我的工作崗位。之後的那一整天。那個下午我一直被惱人的情緒干擾。但我還是繼續工作。那天結束，我收拾東西離開醫院然後走到停車場取車回家當時我做了一件我平常不會做的事。我穿越急診室去停車場 那裡有另一位護士,不是原先那位看顧Druker女士的那位，是另一位她告訴我三個字就這三個字大部分我認識的急診室醫生都害怕。其他醫界的人也害怕,但對急診醫學來說這件事比較特別因為我們看診的病人來去匆匆。那三個字是""記得嗎？""""你記得你讓她出院的那病人嗎？""那位護士就事論事地說「她又回來了」用那種就事論事的聲調。 好吧，她回來了她回來，而且差點過世我讓她回家後到家後的一小時她昏倒了，她家人打緊急電話求救然後救護人員把她送回急診室當時她的血壓只有50嚴重休克她幾乎沒有呼吸，臉色發青。然後急診室人員使出渾身解數要使她血壓恢復。他們讓她戴上呼吸器。 我震驚不已我嚇得不得了。我像坐上雲霄飛車因為後來他們穩住了她的病情她被送到加護病房但我希望她有機會好轉。在接下來的兩三天很明顯地她再也不會醒來。她的腦部受損已經不會好轉。她的家人聚在一起在之後八九天的治療期間他們接受了這件事實。九天後，他們放棄治療，讓她離開人間Druker女士,一位妻子，一位母親也是一位祖母。 他們說你會永遠忘不了那些(因你疏忽而死的)名字那是我第一次意識到。在接下來的幾週,我非常自責。我也第一次經歷了那種不健康的羞愧存在於我們醫界的文化中—在那兒我感到孤單無助不是像各位會感受到的那種的羞愧因為你沒辦法和你的同事訴說。有一種健康的羞愧是當你背叛了對摯友的承諾你說出了原先答應要保守的秘密而當你的摯友找你算帳時你們爭執不休但最後罪感主導著你然後你說，我絕對不會再犯相同的錯。你做了修正承諾，然後你永不再犯同樣的錯。這種羞愧可以教導我們 而我所說那種非良性的羞愧是那種會讓人愧對於心的是那種不是你做了壞事而是你根本就是壞人。這是我當時候的感受。由於我跟隨的主治樂心助人和他的家人好好談過，我確定他替我打了圓場才能確保我不會被控告。我不斷問自己這些問題。為什麼當時我沒有聯繫主治醫生？為什麼我讓她回家？我最糟的回憶是:我為什麼犯了這麼愚蠢的錯？為什麼我選擇進入醫界? 慢慢地，但穩定地糟糕的感覺漸淡了。我的感覺緩和了些。然後在一個天氣陰陰的日子裡陽光開始從雲隙間探出我思考著也許我能讓自己再次快樂起來。我告訴自己我要加倍努力，做到完美不要再犯錯了請就讓那個(自責)聲音停止。那個聲音的確停止了。我回到工作崗位但錯誤又發生了。 兩年後，我在多倫多北部一間社區醫院擔任急診室的主治醫生。我看了一位二十五歲的病人，他有喉嚨痛那天很忙，我也有點手忙腳亂他不斷指著這裡我看了他的喉嚨，有點紅色。我開給他盤尼西林的處方籤,就讓他離開。即便他要走出大門時他仍然指著他的喉嚨。 兩天後，我又輪到在急診室值班那時候我的主任要我過去她的辦公室私下談談她說了那三個字:""記得嗎？""""你記得你看過的那位喉嚨痛的病人嗎？""原來，他並沒有鍊球菌性咽喉炎。他得到的是一種會嚴重威脅生命的病症叫做急性會厭炎。各位可以上網查詢不是喉嚨感染，而是上呼吸道感染,會造成呼吸道阻塞。幸好他沒過世。他被安排去做抗生素靜脈注射幾天之後，他痊癒了。我又回到那個愧疚和責難的時光中然後情緒平復後，回到工作崗位直到這些錯誤再發生, 歷史一直重複。 一個急診的輪班裡發生兩次，我沒發現病人得了盲腸炎。這是很難想像會發生的事特別是當你在醫院工作整個晚上你只有十四名病患。對這兩個病人，我沒有讓他們回家我也不覺得在治療過程中有任何差錯。其中一位我判斷他有腎結石。我安排照了腎臟X光，但結果正常。我同事當時正在對病人病情重新診斷注意到病人右下腹的地方按壓會痛，就聯繫了外科醫生。另一個病人有嚴重的腹瀉我開了一些藥水幫助他補充水分也要求我同事重新診斷。他做了他注意到病人右下腹的地方按壓會痛，也聯繫了外科醫生。這兩個病例他們都動了手術，狀況良好。但每次想到這兩例子那種感覺折磨啃噬我。 我非常想要告訴各位我最嚴重的錯誤只發生在頭五年的行醫歷史中像我眾多同事們所說的一樣，但是這是鬼扯。(笑聲)在最近的五年內, 我也發生一些糗事。孤單，羞愧，無助。問題的癥結是:如果我不能理清楚談論我犯的錯,如果我不能找到那微小的聲音告訴著我事實是如何。我該如何跟我的同事分享經驗？我該如何教導他們, 我犯的錯誤。讓他們不再重蹈覆轍呢？如果我進入一個場合 —就像現在，我不知道各位會如何看待我。 上一次各位聽到別人談論有關自己一次又一次的失敗是什麼時候？是的，如果各位去參加一場宴會你或許會聽到某些醫生的閒聊,但各位不會聽到有人談論自己的過錯。如果我走進一個場合，裡頭坐滿我的同事我向他們尋求認同然後開始跟他們說，我剛告訴各位的事情在我還沒講超過兩個故事前他們就會感到非常不自在。有人就會開始說笑話,想要改變話題，然後拋棄前個話題。事實上，如果我知道或我同事知道我們其中一位骨科同事在醫院裡幫病人截錯肢相信我，我會有困難跟他有任何正面的交會。 這就是我們的制度。完全否認錯誤的系統。這個制度下只有兩種情況—一邊是犯錯的一邊是沒犯錯的一邊是不能調適眠眠被剝削，一邊則可以一邊是糟糕的結果一邊則有優秀的結果這幾乎像是意識形態的反應像抗體一樣，開始攻擊那個人我們有這個想法:如果我們趕走那些犯錯的人讓他們離開醫界,我們就會留下一個安全的制度。 但這樣做會衍生兩個問題。這二十多年來我從事醫療報導和新聞工作我自行探討了醫療疏失和醫療錯誤所有相關的事。從我為多倫多星報所寫的第一則新聞到我的節目《白袍與黑色藝術》。我所學到的是錯誤絕對無所不在。我們在一個每天都會發生錯誤的制度下工作。有十分之一的機會,醫院會給錯藥或是給了錯誤的劑量。而在醫院內的感染越來越多造成傷害和死亡。在這個國家有24,000加拿大人死於可避免的醫療疏失。在美國, 醫學統計則有100,000人。這兩項數據都是低估了因為我們未曾深入探究問題而這是我們應該這麼做的。 事實是這樣在醫療體系裡醫療知識是每二到三年就倍數成長我們跟不上這樣的速度。睡眠不足絕對是普遍的。我們擺脫不了這問題。而我們有自己的直覺偏差,對相同病歷史完整的胸痛病人,會有不同診斷結果。拿一個有胸痛病症的病人來說如果當時他胡言亂語,再加上他的呼吸有酒精味,那我們會認為他其實是喝醉了。因為這樣誤診, 然後我的醫療生涯突然蒙羞。我不會做同樣的事我不是機器人;我不會每次都做同樣的動作。我的病人不是車子;他們不會每次都用相同的方式描述他們的病症。有鑑於此，錯誤是無可避免的。如果是在我所被教導的制度下趕出所有易出錯的醫療專業人員,那麼這個領域會無人留下。 你知道嗎? 在那領域人們不願意談論有關他們所犯糟糕的過往。在我的節目《白袍與黑色藝術》中,我習慣會說「這是我最糟糕的錯誤」。我可以對每個人這麼說從一般的醫務人員到心臟外科的首席外科醫生「我最糟糕的錯誤，是什麼，什麼，什麼諸如此類的」然後我會把麥克風遞給他們，問說「你呢？」他們的瞳孔會放大,他們會退卻,他們會看著地上，猛吞口水。然後開始告訴我他們的故事。他們想說他們的故事，他們想分享他們的故事。他們想要說,「聽著，別犯跟我一樣的錯」。他們需要的是一個場合讓他們吐露心聲。他們需要的是重新定義醫界文化。從一位醫生接另一位醫生開始, 重新定義醫生是人類,知道自己是人類。接受了事實，我不是說犯錯是光榮的,但努力學習一件事:從錯誤中學習。讓醫師能教導別人發生過的事分享了她的經驗當別人談論自己的過錯時，她能給予諒解。然後她也能指出別人所犯的錯不是用落井下石的方式。而是關懷體諒的方式所以每一個人都能受惠。醫師在醫界工作能瞭解這是由人所掌控的制度當人們執行制度時，錯誤就是免不了要會發生的。所以制度可以會改革來產生補救方案能夠更簡單檢查出那些錯誤那些人類無可避免的錯誤。同時培養一種關懷扶持的方式建構一個讓每一個人都能觀察的健康保障的制度可以真正檢查出那些潛在的錯誤並獲得鼓勵。特別是像我一樣的人，當我們犯了錯我們可以被鼓勵面對錯誤並改正。 我是Brian Goldman。我是位有新定義的醫療人員。我是一個人類，我會犯錯。我對此感到抱歉,但我努力學習某件事讓它可以薪傳下去。我仍然不知道大家會如何看我,但我想我能接受。 讓我用三個字來總結我記得。 (掌聲)"
