Talk	en	zh-tw
carin_bondar_the_birds_and_the_bees_are_just_the_beginning	"Anyone in the room thought about sex today? (Laughter) Yeah, you did. Thank you for putting your hand up over there. Well, I'm here to provide you with some biological validation for your sordid daydreams. I'm here to tell you a few things that you might not have known about wild sex. Now, when humans think about sex, male and female forms are generally what come to mind, but for many millions of years, such specific categories didn't even exist. Sex was a mere fusion of bodies or a trickle of DNA shared between two or more beings. It wasn't until about 500 million years ago that we start to see structures akin to a penis or a thing that gives DNA out, and a vagina, something that receives it. Now invariably, you're probably thinking about what belongs to our own species, these very familiar structures, but the diversity that we see in sexual structures in the animal kingdom that has evolved in response to the multitude of factors surrounding reproduction is pretty mind-blowing. Penile diversity is especially profuse. So this is a paper nautilus. It's a close relative of squid and octopus, and males have a hectocotylus. Just what is a hectocotylus? A detachable, swimming penis. It leaves the [body of the male], finds the female through pheromonal cues in the water, attaches itself to her body and deposits the sperm. For many decades, biologists actually felt that the hectocotylus was a separate organism altogether. Now, the tapir is a mammal from South America. And the tapir has a prehensile penis. It actually has a level of dexterity in its penis much akin to what we have with our hands. And it uses this dexterity to bypass the vagina altogether and deposit sperm directly into the female's uterus, not to mention it's a pretty good size. The biggest penis in the animal kingdom, however, is not that of the tapir. The biggest penis-to-body-size ratio in the animal kingdom actually belongs to the meager beach barnacle, and this video is actually showing you what the human penis would look like if it were the same size as that of a barnacle. (Laughter) Mm-hm. (Laughter) So with all of this diversity in structure, one might think, then, that penises are fitting neatly into vaginas all over the place for the purposes of successful reproduction. Simply insert part A into slot B, and we should all be good to go. But of course, that doesn't exactly happen, and that's because we can't just take form into account. We have to think about function as well, and when it comes to sex, function relates to the contributions made by the gametes, or the sperm and the eggs. And these contributions are far from equal. Eggs are very expensive to make, so it makes sense for females to be very choosy about who she shares them with. Sperm, on the other hand, is abundant and cheap, so it makes more sense for males to have a more-sex-is-better strategy when it comes to siring members of future generations. So how do animals cope with these very incongruent needs between the sexes? I mean, if a female doesn't choose a particular male, or if she has the ability to store sperm and she simply has enough, then it makes more sense for her to spend her time doing other biologically relevant things: avoiding predators, taking care of offspring, gathering and ingesting food. This is, of course, bad news for any male who has yet to make a deposit in her sperm bank, and this sets the scene for some pretty drastic strategies for successful fertilization. This is bedbug sex, and it's aptly termed traumatic insemination. Males have a spiked, barbed penis that they literally stab into the female, and they don't stab it anywhere near her vagina. They stab it anywhere in her body, and the sperm simply migrates through her hemolymph to her ovaries. If a female gets too many stab wounds, or if a stab wound happens to become infected, she can actually die from it. Now if you've ever been out for a nice, peaceful walk by the lake and happened to see some ducks having sex, you've undoubtedly been alarmed, because it looks like gang rape. And quite frankly, that's exactly what it is. A group of males will grab a female, hold her down, and ballistically ejaculate their spiral-shaped penis into her corkscrew-shaped vagina over and over and over again. From flaccid to ejaculation in less than a second. Now the female actually gets the last laugh, though, because she can actually manipulate her posture so as to allow the sperm of certain suitors better access to her ovaries. Now, I like to share stories like this with my audiences because, yeah, we humans, we tend to think sex, sex is fun, sex is good, there's romance, and there's orgasm. But orgasm didn't actually evolve until about 65 million years ago with the advent of mammals. But some animals had it going on quite a bit before that. There are some more primitive ways of pleasing one's partner. Earwig males have either really large penile appendages or really small ones. It's a very simple genetically inherited trait and the males are not otherwise any different. Those that have long penile appendages are not bigger or stronger or otherwise any different at all. So going back to our biological minds, then, we might think that females should choose to have sex with the guys that have the shorter appendages, because she can use her time for other things: avoiding predators, taking care of young, finding and ingesting food. But biologists have repeatedly observed that females choose to have sex with the males that have the long appendages. Why do they do this? Well, according to the biological literature, ""During copulation, the genitalia of certain males may elicit more favorable female responses through superior mechanical or stimulatory interaction with the female reproductive tract."" Mm-hm. These are Mexican guppies, and what you see on their upper maxilla is an outgrowth of epidermal filaments, and these filaments basically form a fish mustache, if you will. Now males have been observed to prod the female's genital opening prior to copulating with her, and in what I have lovingly termed the Magnum, P.I. hypothesis, females are overwhelmingly more likely to be found with males that have these fish mustaches. A little guppy porn for you right there. So we've seen very different strategies that males are using when it comes to winning a female partner. We've seen a coercion strategy in which sexual structures are used in a forceful way to basically make a female have sex. We've also seen a titillation strategy where males are actually pleasing their female partners into choosing them as a sex partner. Now unfortunately, in the animal kingdom, it's the coercion strategy that we see time and time again. It's very common in many phyla, from invertebrates to avian species, mammals, and, of course, even in primates. Now interestingly, there  are a few mammalian species in which females have evolved specialized genitalia that doesn't allow for sexual coercion to take place. Female elephants and female hyenas have a penile clitoris, or an enlarged clitoral tissue that hangs externally, much like a penis, and in fact it's very difficult to sex these animals by merely looking at their external morphology. So before a male can insert his penis into a female's vagina, she has to take this penile clitoris and basically inside-out it in her own body. I mean, imagine putting a penis into another penis. It's simply not going to happen unless the female is on board with the action. Now, even more interesting is the fact that elephant and hyena societies are entirely matriarchal: they're run by females, groups of females, sisters, aunts and offspring, and when young males attain sexual maturity, they're turfed out of the group. In hyena societies, adult males are actually the lowest on the social scale. They can take part in a kill only after everybody else, including the offspring. So it seems that when you take the penis power away from a male, you take away all the social power he has. So what are my take-home messages from my talk today? Well, sex is just so much more than insert part A into slot B and hope that the offspring run around everywhere. The sexual strategies and reproductive structures that we see in the animal kingdom basically dictate how males and females will react to each other, which then dictates how populations and societies form and evolve. So it may not be surprising to any of you that animals, including ourselves, spend a good amount of time thinking about sex, but what might surprise you is the extent to which so many other aspects of their lives and our lives are influenced by it. So thank you, and happy daydreaming. (Applause)"	在座各位今天有想色色的事嗎？(笑聲)一定有吧！謝謝你們如此誠實讓我為你們這些猥褻的白日夢提供一些生物學上的證據讓我告訴你們一些你們可能不知道的野生動物性事 當人類想到性我們很自然想到男女身體特徵但是數百萬年來這麼明顯的區別並不存在性就是身體融合或是兩個、兩個以上的遺傳物質交換直到 5 億年前我們才看到近似陰莖或給予遺傳物質器官的出現和陰道或其他相似的接收結構你們難免會想我們自己人類的構造我們看到動物世界中的生殖器官這些相似但多樣的構造反應了關於生殖繁衍的諸多因素實在很令人驚嘆 陰莖結構特別多樣這是一隻船蛸是烏賊和章魚近親雄性個體具有交接腕什麼是交接腕呢？是一個可分離會游泳的陰莖它可以脫離雄性個體借由水中的費洛蒙找到雌性再將自己結合上去輸送精子數十年來生物學家甚至認為交接腕是個獨立的個體貘是以種來自南非的哺乳類貘俱有有抓握能力的陰莖牠陰莖靈巧的程度大概和我們的手一般而牠用這份靈巧穿過陰道將精子直接送到雌性的子宮更別說牠的尺寸雄偉但是動物界中最大的陰莖並不是貘的在動物界中陰莖佔體型比例最大的是窄灘藤壺而這段影片可以告訴你當人類與藤壺體積相等時陰莖的相對大小(笑聲)嗯 (笑聲) 對於如此多樣的結構有人可能認為為了成功繁衍後代陰莖可以完美地與不同陰道結合直接將突出物 A 插入插槽 B然後一切就完美了但是事實並非如此因為在談論性時我們不能只考慮形態也必須考慮功能功能對配子的投資有關配子就是精子或卵子而兩份投資程度極不均等製造卵子代價昂貴所以雌性在選擇對象時會十分謹慎另一方面，精子量多且成本低廉所以對雄性而言越頻繁的性交對傳宗接代是最好的策略 所以動物們如何調和不同性別對性交的要求？我的意思是，如果雌性不需要選擇雄性或是牠有能力儲存精子而且也存夠了對牠而言，合理的選擇是將時間花在進行其他生理活動：躲避敵害、育幼搜集並消化食物當然，這對沒有將精子存入的雄性而言會是一個壞消息現在想像一個為了成功受孕的極端策略臭蟲的性交可以恰當地稱為「創傷式受精」雄性有尖銳、帶刺的陰莖可以真正刺進雌性體內而牠們並不是刺在陰道附近而是雌性身體的任一地方而精子則會借由雌性的血淋巴系統向子宮移動如果雌性受到太多刺傷或是刺傷造成感染牠就可能因此死亡 如果你曾經在池邊悠閒地散步並恰巧看到鴨子性交你一定會十分驚訝因為它看起來就像輪姦一般而事實就是如此一群雄性會抓住一隻雌性壓制牠將牠們螺旋形的陰莖輪流插入雌性螺旋狀的陰道中從開始到射精不到一秒的時間但是雌性有最後的選擇因為雌性可以調整姿勢所以中意追求者的精子有更好的機會靠近子宮 我希望跟你們分享這些故事的原因是因為我們人類傾向將性交聯想成好玩、有趣有浪漫與有高潮但是高潮是在在 6 千 5 百萬年前隨著哺乳動物演化後才出現的但是有些生物開始得更早利用原始的方式取悅伴侶 地蜈蚣有兩種形態一種有較大的陰莖狀組織一種則是縮小版縮小版是簡單的遺傳物質傳送通道雄性間其他方面沒有不同那些俱有較大陰莖狀組織的並非更強壯和其它個體沒有差別所以回到我們生物學的思維我們可能會認為雌性會選擇和陰莖短小的雄性交配所以雌性能將時間花在：躲避天敵、育幼找尋並消化食物上但是生物學家重複觀察到雌性會選擇和陰莖雄偉的雄性性交為什麼要這樣做呢？根據生物學文獻「在交配時，特定雄性的生殖器可藉由更好的生理構造或刺激形式帶給雌性生殖道更愉悅的感受」嗯 這些是墨西哥大肚魚而你們看到牠們上頜骨有上外生長的表皮纖維這些纖維基本上就是魚的鬍子我們觀察到雄魚會在交配前會刺激雌魚生殖道口這被我稱作「神探猛龍假說」（註：神探猛龍主角以鬍子、風流著稱）雌魚顯然會偏好有鬍子的雄魚真是隻好色的小魚 我們看到了不同雄性贏得雌性伴侶的策略我們看到以強制的手段迫使雌性就範我們也看到令人愉悅的策略雄性是利用取悅雌性的方式使其成為性伴侶不幸的是在動物界中強迫的手段非常常見爲許多門動物所共有從無脊椎動物到鳥類哺乳類，甚至靈長類 有趣的是少數哺乳動物雌性會演化出特殊的生殖系統防止霸王硬上弓發生雌性的大象和土狼有陰莖狀的陰核或可說是膨大的陰核結構像陰莖一般懸在外面這讓動物很難只藉由觀察外表就判定性別所以在雄性可以將其陰莖深入雌性陰道前雌性必須將陰莖狀的陰核向內收入自己體內想像將陰莖置入另一個陰莖這根本不可能發生除非雌性先進行這個動作更有趣的事大象和土狼的社會是母系社會牠們是由一群雌性管理姐妹、阿姨和小孩們當年輕雄性達到性成熟牠們會被逐出群體在土狼社會中，成年雄性的地位在社會最底層牠們只能在其他個體之後分食獵物順序甚至在幼獸之後這好像就是從雄性上拿走了陰莖所代表的力量就拿走了牠們所有的社會地位 所以我想讓你們學到什麼呢？性不只是將突出物 A 插入插槽 B然後期待會有活蹦亂跳的後代我們在動物界中看到生殖策略與結構主宰了雄性與雌性的互動也決定了族群與社會的形成與演進 所以包含我們在內的許多動物花許多時間思考性事這一點也不令人訝異了但是可能讓你們驚訝的性是如何影響到我們和牠們的其他生活層面 謝謝大家祝各位有個愉快的白日夢 (掌聲)
