Talk	en	zh-tw
carolyn_jones_a_tribute_to_nurses	"As patients, we usually remember the names of our doctors, but often we forget the names of our nurses. I remember one. I had breast cancer a few years ago, and somehow I managed to get through the surgeries and the beginning of the treatment just fine. I could hide what was going on. Everybody didn't really have to know. I could walk my daughter to school, I could go out to dinner with my husband; I could fool people. But then my chemo was scheduled to begin and that terrified me because I knew that I was going to lose every single hair on my body because of the kind of chemo that I was going to have. I wasn't going to be able to pretend anymore as though everything was normal. I was scared. I knew what it felt like to have everybody treating me with kid gloves, and I just wanted to feel normal. I had a port installed in my chest. I went to my first day of chemotherapy, and I was an emotional wreck. My nurse, Joanne, walked in the door, and every bone in my body was telling me to get up out of that chair and take for the hills. But Joanne looked at me and talked to me like we were old friends. And then she asked me, ""Where'd you get your highlights done?"" (Laughter) And I was like, are you kidding me? You're going to talk to me about my hair when I'm on the verge of losing it? I was kind of angry, and I said, ""Really? Hair?"" And with a shrug of her shoulders she said, ""It's gonna grow back."" And in that moment she said the one thing I had overlooked, and that was that at some point, my life would get back to normal. She really believed that. And so I believed it, too. Now, worrying about losing your hair when you're fighting cancer may seem silly at first, but it's not just that you're worried about how you're going to look. It's that you're worried that everybody's going to treat you so carefully. Joanne made me feel normal for the first time in six months. We talked about her boyfriends, we talked about looking for apartments in New York City, and we talked about my reaction to the chemotherapy — all kind of mixed in together. And I always wondered, how did she so instinctively know just how to talk to me? Joanne Staha and my admiration for her marked the beginning of my journey into the world of nurses. A few years later, I was asked to do a project that would celebrate the work that nurses do. I started with Joanne, and I met over 100 nurses across the country. I spent five years interviewing, photographing and filming nurses for a book and a documentary film. With my team, we mapped a trip across America that would take us to places dealing with some of the biggest public health issues facing our nation — aging, war, poverty, prisons. And then we went places where we would find the largest concentration of patients dealing with those issues. Then we asked hospitals and facilities to nominate nurses who would best represent them. One of the first nurses I met was Bridget Kumbella. Bridget was born in Cameroon, the oldest of four children. Her father was at work when he had fallen from the fourth floor and really hurt his back. And he talked a lot about what it was like to be flat on your back and not get the kind of care that you need. And that propelled Bridget to go into the profession of nursing. Now, as a nurse in the Bronx, she has a really diverse group of patients that she cares for, from all walks of life, and from all different religions. And she's devoted her career to understanding the impact of our cultural differences when it comes to our health. She spoke of a patient — a Native American patient that she had — that wanted to bring a bunch of feathers into the ICU. That's how he found spiritual comfort. And she spoke of advocating for him and said that patients come from all different religions and use all different kinds of objects for comfort; whether it's a holy rosary or a symbolic feather, it all needs to be supported. This is Jason Short. Jason is a home health nurse in the Appalachian mountains, and his dad had a gas station and a repair shop when he was growing up. So he worked on cars in the community that he now serves as a nurse. When he was in college, it was just not macho at all to become a nurse, so he avoided it for years. He drove trucks for a little while, but his life path was always pulling him back to nursing. As a nurse in the Appalachian mountains, Jason goes places that an ambulance can't even get to. In this photograph, he's standing in what used to be a road. Top of the mountain mining flooded that road, and now the only way for Jason to get to the patient living in that house with black lung disease is to drive his SUV against the current up that creek. The day I was with him, we ripped the front fender off the car. The next morning he got up, put the car on the lift, fixed the fender, and then headed out to meet his next patient. I witnessed Jason caring for this gentleman with such enormous compassion, and I was struck again by how intimate the work of nursing really is. When I met Brian McMillion, he was raw. He had just come back from a deployment and he hadn't really settled back in to life in San Diego yet. He talked about his experience of being a nurse in Germany and taking care of the soldiers coming right off the battlefield. Very often, he would be the first person they would see when they opened their eyes in the hospital. And they would look at him as they were lying there, missing limbs, and the first thing they would say is, ""When can I go back? I left my brothers out there."" And Brian would have to say, ""You're not going anywhere. You've already given enough, brother."" Brian is both a nurse and a soldier who's seen combat. So that puts him in a unique position to be able to relate to and help heal the veterans in his care. This is Sister Stephen, and she runs a nursing home in Wisconsin called Villa Loretto. And the entire circle of life can be found under her roof. She grew up wishing they lived on a farm, so given the opportunity to adopt local farm animals, she enthusiastically brings them in. And in the springtime, those animals have babies. And Sister Stephen uses those baby ducks, goats and lambs as animal therapy for the residents at Villa Loretto who sometimes can't remember their own name, but they do rejoice in the holding of a baby lamb. The day I was with Sister Stephen, I needed to take her away from Villa Loretto to film part of her story. And before we left, she went into the room of a dying patient. And she leaned over and she said, ""I have to go away for the day, but if Jesus calls you, you go. You go straight home to Jesus."" I was standing there and thinking it was the first time in my life I witnessed that you could show someone you love them completely by letting go. We don't have to hold on so tightly. I saw more life rolled up at Villa Loretto than I have ever seen at any other time at any other place in my life. We live in a complicated time when it comes to our health care. It's easy to lose sight of the need for quality of life, not just quantity of life. As new life-saving technologies are created, we're going to have really complicated decisions to make. These technologies often save lives, but they can also prolong pain and the dying process. How in the world are we supposed to navigate these waters? We're going to need all the help we can get. Nurses have a really unique relationship with us because of the time spent at bedside. During that time, a kind of emotional intimacy develops. This past summer, on August 9, my father died of a heart attack. My mother was devastated, and she couldn't imagine her world without him in it. Four days later she fell, she broke her hip, she needed surgery and she found herself fighting for her own life. Once again I found myself on the receiving end of the care of nurses — this time for my mom. My brother and my sister and I stayed by her side for the next three days in the ICU. And as we tried to make the right decisions and follow my mother's wishes, we found that we were depending upon the guidance of nurses. And once again, they didn't let us down. They had an amazing insight in terms of how to care for my mom in the last four days of her life. They brought her comfort and relief from pain. They knew to encourage my sister and I to put a pretty nightgown on my mom, long after it mattered to her, but it sure meant a lot to us. And they knew to come and wake me up just in time for my mom's last breath. And then they knew how long to leave me in the room with my mother after she died. I have no idea how they know these things, but I do know that I am eternally grateful that they've guided me once again. Thank you so very much. (Applause)"	身為病人，通常大家只會記住醫生的名字，而常常忘記護士的名字。我就記住了一位。幾年前我罹患了乳癌，我總算把手術熬過去，而且治療在開始時還算順利。我其實可以隱瞞當中發生的事，沒有必要讓任何人知道。我可以走路陪女兒上學，我可以陪丈夫去外面吃晚餐；我可以欺騙大家。可是我的化療在預定時間開始時，真的讓我嚇到了，因為我知道我將會失去身上所有的毛髮，這是由於我接受的化療種類造成的。我沒辦法繼續裝作一切如常。 我當時很害怕。我懂得那種被所有人小心翼翼對待的感覺，而我只希望跟平常一樣。當時我胸口放了一條人工血管。第一天去做化療的時候，我的情緒崩潰了。我的護士喬安妮走進房間，我骨子裡只想站起來離開座椅，然後逃到山上去。但是喬安妮看著我，把我當成老朋友一樣跟我說話。然後她問我：你是在哪裡給頭髮挑染？ （笑聲） 我的反應就像說；你在開玩笑嗎？在我就要喪失頭髮的時候，你還要談我頭髮的事？當時我有點不高興，我回答她說：「沒搞錯吧？頭髮？」她聳聳肩膀說：「還是會再長回來的。」在那一瞬間，她說出了我之前忽略掉的事，那就是我的人生在某一刻會恢復正常。她真的相信這樣。於是我也跟著相信了。 在與癌症奮戰時卻擔心失去頭髮，最初看起來好像很愚蠢，但其實這不只關乎擔心外表如何。這關乎擔心每個人都會很細心地照顧你。喬安妮使我在六個月以來首次感到正常。我們聊她的男朋友，討論有關在紐約市尋找公寓的事，我們也聊到我對化療的反應，甚麼話題都一併去聊。我總是想知道，她怎麼本能地知道怎樣跟我交談？ 喬安妮．斯塔哈和我對她的景仰，使我展開進入護士世界的探索之旅。幾年後，我被要求進行一個計劃，主題是讚揚護士的工作。我就先從喬安妮着手，然後我遊走全國跟 100 多位護士見面。我利用五年的時間，對護士進行面談，拍照和攝影，用來寫書並製作紀錄片。我和我的團隊一起安排橫跨美國的路程，去一些正在面臨龐大公共衞生問題的地方：人口老化、戰爭、貧窮、牢獄。然後我們訪問最多病人集中、處理這些問題的地方。然後我們請求醫院和相關單位提名最能代表他們的護士。 其中一位我見過面的護士名叫布莉姬．坎培拉。布莉姬出生在喀麥隆，是四個小孩中的老大。她的父親在工作期間從四樓掉下來，背部傷勢嚴重。他提到很多關於臥床、沒有受到必要護理照顧的那種感覺，這驅使布莉姬投身護士專業。現時她在布朗克斯區當護士，必須照顧很多不同種類的病人，他們來自各行各業，也各有不同宗教信仰。她全程投入在事業中以了解文化差異對健康的影響。她談到一個病人，她的一位美洲原住民病人，那位病人想將大量羽毛帶入加護病房。他這樣做才找到精神上的慰藉。她談到曾為他請願，表示病人各有不同宗教信仰，使用各式各樣的物件來獲得慰藉；無論是天主教的玫瑰念珠，或是具有象徵意義的羽毛。都需要得到支持。 這一位是傑森．秀特。傑森在阿巴拉契亞山一帶擔任家庭保健護士，他年幼時父親經營加油站和修理廠。所以他在社區當護士前是從事汽車修理。當他在讀大學的時候，當護士簡直一點男子氣概也沒有，所以他抗拒當護士好幾年。他開了一段時間的卡車，但是他的人生路途總是把他拉回到護士行業。作為阿巴拉契亞山地區的家庭保健護士，傑森所到之處甚至救護車都無法去到。在這張照片中，他站的地方原本是一條馬路。因為山頂挖礦，所以馬路被土石流埋沒了，傑森的病人患有肺塵病，而現在傑森往病人房子的唯一方式，就是開着他的越野休旅車逆著溪流而上。那天我跟他一起，車子的前擋泥板被掀走。第二天早上他起來後，把車頂高，把前擋泥板裝回去，然後出發去看下一位病人。我見證了傑森充滿憐憫地照顧這位男士，護士工作的無微不至再次令我印象深刻。 跟布萊恩．馬克米里安見面時，他簡直棒極了。他剛完成戰地派駐工作回來，在聖地牙哥的生活還未安頓下來。他談到在德國擔任護士的經驗，也談到照顧從戰場回來的士兵。他們在醫院睜開眼睛後看到的第一個人往往就是他。他們躺在病床上肢體不全時望着他，然後開口問的第一件事就是：「我甚麼時候可以回去？我的弟兄還留在那裡。」然後布萊恩會這麼說：「弟兄，你哪裡都不用去。你已經付出得夠了。」布萊恩身兼護士和親歷戰事的士兵。因此他的身分獨特，這讓他可以在照料退伍軍人時明白並治癒他們。 這一位是史蒂芬修女，她在威斯康辛州經營一家名為「洛雷托別墅」的護理之家。整個生老病死都可在她的屋簷下看到。她年少時一直希望他們住在農場裡，於是一有收養當地農場動物的機會，她就熱切地把牠們帶進安養院。春天時那些動物就會生出崽子。史蒂芬修女就會利用那些小鴨、小山羊和小羔羊，為洛雷托別墅的住客進行動物療法；那些住客有時連自己名字也記不起，但他們抱著小山羊時確實充滿喜悅。那一天我和史蒂芬修女一起時，我要把她帶離別墅去拍攝她的故事的其中一段。在我們離開之前，她走進一間垂死病人的房間。她靠過去並且說：「我今天必須離開一下，但是假如耶穌召喚你，你就去吧。你直接回到耶穌那裡去吧。」我站在那邊思考，這是我有生以來第一次目睹，原來可以透過放下，來表達你對某人全心全意的愛。我們不一定要緊抓著不放。我在洛雷托別墅所見的往生的人比我在任何時間和地方看到的還要多。 談到保健，我們活在複雜的世代。人們重視壽命，卻容易忽視對生活品質的需求。當救命科技推陳出新時，我們就要作出非常複雜的決定。這些科技往往能拯救生命，但卻同時延長痛楚和垂死的過程。我們應該如何處理這些難題呢？我們必須盡其所能的去尋求協助。護士和我們的關係相當獨特，原因在於他們守護在床邊的時間。在這段時間，一種情感上的微妙關係油然而生。 在去年夏季八月九日，我父親死於心臟病發。我母親深受折磨，她無法想像沒有我父親存在的日子。四天後，她跌倒了，臀部髖骨破裂，需要動手術，發現只能靠自己為生存搏鬥。我發現自己再次站在接受護士照料的一方，而這次是為著我的母親。我和弟妹在及後三天留在加護病房守候她。正當我們嘗試遵從母親的意願去做出正確的決定時，我們才發覺原來一直倚賴護士的指引。他們再一次沒讓我們失望。他們在母親臨終前四天照料她時表現出超卓的洞察力。他們使她舒適自在，為她減輕痛苦。他們懂得如何鼓勵我和妹妹去替母親換上一件漂亮的睡衣；雖然這對她來說不再重要了，但對我們來說肯定意義重大。他們知道在母親呼出最後一口氣前及時過來喚醒我們。他們也知道預留多少時間，讓我留在房間裡陪著剛逝去的母親。 我無從了解他們如何懂得這些竅門，但我肯定知道自己永遠感激她們再次給我指引。 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲）
