Talk	en	zh-tw
catherine_crump_the_small_and_surprisingly_dangerous_detail_the_police_track_about_you	The shocking police crackdown on protestors in Ferguson, Missouri, in the wake of the police  shooting of Michael Brown, underscored the extent to which advanced military weapons and equipment, designed for the battlefield, are making their way to small-town police departments across the United States. Although much tougher to observe, this same thing is happening  with surveillance equipment. NSA-style mass  surveillance is enabling local police departments  to gather vast quantities of sensitive information about each and every one of us in a way that was never previously possible. Location information can  be very sensitive. If you drive your car around the United States, it can reveal if you go  to a therapist, attend an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, if you go to church  or if you don't go to church. And when that  information about you is combined with the same information about everyone else, the government can gain  a detailed portrait of how private citizens interact. This information used to be private. Thanks to modern technology, the government knows far too much about what happens behind closed doors. And local police departments make decisions about who they think you are based on this information. One of the key technologies  driving mass location tracking is the innocuous-sounding Automatic License Plate Reader. If you haven't seen one, it's probably because you didn't know what to look for — they're everywhere. Mounted on roads or  on police cars, Automatic License Plate Readers capture images of every passing car and convert the license plate into machine-readable text so that they can be checked against hot lists of cars potentially wanted for wrongdoing. But more than that, increasingly, local police departments  are keeping records not just of people wanted for wrongdoing, but of every plate that  passes them by, resulting in the collection of mass quantities of data about where Americans have gone. Did you know this was happening? When Mike Katz-Lacabe asked his local police department for information about the plate reader data they had on him, this is what they got: in addition to the date,  time and location, the police department had  photographs that captured where he was going and  often who he was with. The second photo from the top is a picture of Mike and his two daughters getting out of their car in their own driveway. The government has  hundreds of photos like this about Mike going about his daily life. And if you drive a car  in the United States, I would bet money  that they have photographs like this of you going about your daily life. Mike hasn't done anything wrong. Why is it okay that the government is keeping all of this information? The reason it's happening is because, as the cost of storing this data has plummeted, the police departments simply hang on to it, just in case it could be useful someday. The issue is not just that one police department is gathering this information in isolation or even that multiple police  departments are doing it. At the same time, the federal government is collecting all of these individual pots of data, and pooling them together  into one vast database with hundreds of millions of hits, showing where Americans have traveled. This document from the  Federal Drug Enforcement Administration, which is one of the agencies primarily interested in this, is one of several that reveal  the existence of this database. Meanwhile, in New York City, the NYPD has driven police cars equipped with license plate readers past mosques in order to figure out who is attending. The uses and abuses of this technology aren't limited to the United States. In the U.K., the police department put 80-year-old John Kat on a plate reader watch list after he had attended dozens of lawful political demonstrations where he liked to sit on a bench and sketch the attendees. License plate readers aren't the only mass location tracking technology available to law enforcement agents today. Through a technique known as a cell tower dump, law enforcement agents can uncover who was using one or more cell towers at a particular time, a technique which has been known to reveal the location of tens of thousands and even hundreds of thousands of people. Also, using a device known as a StingRay, law enforcement agents can send tracking signals inside people's houses to identify the cell phones located there. And if they don't know which house to target, they've been known  to drive this technology around through whole neighborhoods. Just as the police in Ferguson possess high-tech military weapons and equipment, so too do police departments across the United States possess high-tech surveillance gear. Just because you don't see it, doesn't mean it's not there. The question is, what should we do about this? I think this poses a serious civil liberties threat. History has shown that once the police  have massive quantities of data, tracking the movements of innocent people, it gets abused, maybe for blackmail, maybe for political advantage, or maybe for simple voyeurism. Fortunately, there are steps we can take. Local police departments can  be governed by the city councils, which can pass laws requiring the police to dispose of the data  about innocent people while allowing the legitimate uses of the technology to go forward. Thank you. (Applause).	在密蘇里州佛格森警方鎮壓抗議者令人震驚，這些人為了警方開槍射擊邁克爾·布朗的事件抗議，從事件中可看出極為先進的軍事裝備為戰場而設計的武器，正在慢慢進入全美國縣城的警察局。雖然很難察覺到，但是同樣的事情也發生在監控設備上， 國土安全局級別的大規模監控使得地方警察部門獲取大量關於我們每一個人的敏感訊息以一種前所未有的方式。 所在位置的訊息會非常敏感。如果你在美國開著車，它可以揭露你去看了治療師，還是參加匿名戒酒會議，你是否會上教堂。如果這些關於你的訊息和那些其他人的訊息整合到一起，政府就得到了一份詳細的關於每個普通公民如何相互交流的影像。 這些訊息曾經是隱私。由於現代科技，政府知道了太多關著的門背後發生的事情。而且當地警察局也根據這些訊息來判斷你是怎樣的人。 推動大量定位追蹤的一項關鍵技術是冠冕堂皇的車牌自動閱讀器。如果你從未見過它，很有可能是你不知道往哪裡看——它們無處不在。裝在道路上或者警車上，車牌自動閱讀器抓拍過往的每一輛車然後把車牌轉化成機器辨識的文字這樣就可以和違規名單上的車牌對照。 而且不止這些，大量增長的是，當地警察局保留了不光是違法者的記錄，而且是每一輛經過的車的記錄，導致得到大量關於美國人去了哪裡的數據。你們知道有這種事嗎？ 當邁克·卡茨拉卡布問他當地的警察局要車牌閱讀器關於他的記錄時，這是警察得到的：除了日期、時間、地點，警察局還有抓拍的照片關於他去了哪裡，和誰在一起。第二張照片是邁克和他的兩個女兒在他們家門口從車中下來時。政府部門有數百張這樣的照片關於邁克和他的日常生活。如果你在美國開著車，我敢用金錢打賭他們也有類似照片關於你的日常生活。 邁克並沒有做任何壞事。為什麼政府可以保留這些訊息？原因是，隨著儲蓄數據的成本下降警察局就簡單地保留下來，以防有一天成為有用訊息。這件事並不是一個警察局收集訊息，或者幾個警察局收集訊息。同時，聯邦政府正在收集所有個人的點滴訊息，並且把它們同其他成百上千萬訊息一起放在一個大數據庫裡，顯示出美國人都去了哪些地方。聯邦緝毒局，對此極有興趣的機構之一，裡頭的這份文件透漏了數據庫的存在。同時，在紐約，紐約警察局開著裝有車牌閱讀器的警車經過清真寺以搞清楚誰參加了。 這項技術的使用和濫用不僅限於美國。在英國，警察局把 80 歲的約翰·卡特放進了車牌讀取名單，因為他先前參加幾十個合法的政治示威活動時，他喜歡坐在凳子上為參與者畫像。 車牌讀取器不是目前提供給執法機構的唯一大規模追蹤技術。通過一個名為小區塔轉儲的技術，執法人員可以破察誰在某個時刻正在使用一個或者多個電話通信塔，這是一項被大眾熟知的技術被用來定位成千上百的人。同樣，使用一種名為黃貂魚的設備，執法人員可以追蹤在人們家裡的信號來確認手機就在那裡。而且如果他們不知道目標是哪棟房子，他們會在整個街區使用這項技術。 正如弗格森警方擁有高科技軍用武器裝備，全美國的警察局同樣也有高科技的監控設備。你沒有看見它並不意味著它不存在。 問題是，我們應該對此做些什麼？我認為這嚴重的威脅了公民自由。歷史已經證明一旦警察有了大量的數據，追蹤無辜大眾的行動，它就會被濫用，或者用於勒索、政治目的，或者簡單的偷窺。 幸運的是，我們可以採取一些措施。當地警察部門可以被市議會管轄，議會有權利通過法律要求警察丟棄無辜人的數據，同時允許合法的繼續使用這些科技。謝謝。（鼓掌）
