Talk	en	zh-tw
cesar_kuriyama_one_second_every_day	"So, I'm an artist. I live in New York, and I've been working in advertising for — ever since I left school, so about seven, eight years now, and it was draining. I worked a lot of late nights. I worked a lot of weekends, and I found myself never having time for all the projects that I wanted to work on on my own. And one day I was at work and I saw a talk by Stefan Sagmeister on TED, and it was called ""The power of time off,"" and he spoke about how every seven years, he takes a year off from work so he could do his own creative projects, and I was instantly inspired, and I just said, ""I have to do that. I have to take a year off. I need to take time to travel and spend time with my family and start my own creative ideas."" So the first of those projects ended up being something I called ""One Second Every Day."" Basically I'm recording one second of every day of my life for the rest of my life, chronologically compiling these one-second tiny slices of my life into one single continuous video until, you know, I can't record them anymore. The purpose of this project is, one: I hate not remembering things that I've done in the past. There's all these things that I've done with my life that I have no recollection of unless someone brings it up, and sometimes I think, ""Oh yeah, that's something that I did."" And something that I realized early on in the project was that if I wasn't doing anything interesting, I would probably forget to record the video. So the day — the first time that I forgot, it really hurt me, because it's something that I really wanted to — from the moment that I turned 30, I wanted to keep this project going until forever, and having missed that one second, I realized, it just kind of created this thing in my head where I never forgot ever again. So if I live to see 80 years of age, I'm going to have a five-hour video that encapsulates 50 years of my life. When I turn 40, I'll have a one-hour video that includes just my 30s. This has really invigorated me day-to-day, when I wake up, to try and do something interesting with my day. Now, one of the things that I have issues with is that, as the days and weeks and months go by, time just seems to start blurring and blending into each other and, you know, I hated that, and visualization is the way to trigger memory. You know, this project for me is a way for me to bridge that gap and remember everything that I've done. Even just this one second allows me to remember everything else I did that one day. It's difficult, sometimes, to pick that one second. On a good day, I'll have maybe three or four seconds that I really want to choose, but I'll just have to narrow it down to one, but even narrowing it down to that one allows me to remember the other three anyway. It's also kind of a protest, a personal protest, against the culture we have now where people just are at concerts with their cell phones out recording the whole concert, and they're disturbing you. They're not even enjoying the show. They're watching the concert through their cell phone. I hate that. I admittedly used to be that guy a little bit, back in the day, and I've decided that the best way for me to still capture and keep a visual memory of my life and not be that person, is to just record that one second that will allow me to trigger that memory of, ""Yeah, that concert was amazing. I really loved that concert."" And it just takes a quick, quick second. I was on a three-month road trip this summer. It was something that I've been dreaming about doing my whole life, just driving around the U.S. and Canada and just figuring out where to go the next day, and it was kind of outstanding. I actually ran out, I spent too much money on my road trip for the savings that I had to take my year off, so I had to, I went to Seattle and I spent some time with friends working on a really neat project. One of the reasons that I took my year off was to spend more time with my family, and this really tragic thing happened where my sister-in-law, her intestine suddenly strangled one day, and we took her to the emergency room, and she was, she was in really bad shape. We almost lost her a couple of times, and I was there with my brother every day. It helped me realize something else during this project, is that recording that one second on a really bad day is extremely difficult. It's not — we tend to take our cameras out when we're doing awesome things. Or we're, ""Oh, yeah, this party, let me take a picture."" But we rarely do that when we're having a bad day, and something horrible is happening. And I found that it's actually been very, very important to record even just that one second of a really bad moment. It really helps you appreciate the good times. It's not always a good day, so when you have a bad one, I think it's important to remember it, just as much as it is important to remember the [good] days. Now one of the things that I do is I don't use any filters, I don't use anything to — I try to capture the moment as much as possible as the way that I saw it with my own eyes. I started a rule of first person perspective. Early on, I think I had a couple of videos where you would see me in it, but I realized that wasn't the way to go. The way to really remember what I saw was to record it as I actually saw it. Now a couple of things that I have in my head about this project are, wouldn't it be interesting if thousands of people were doing this? I turned 31 last week, which is there. I think it would be interesting to see what everyone did with a project like this. I think everyone would have a different interpretation of it. I think everyone would benefit from just having that one second to remember every day. Personally, I'm tired of forgetting, and this is a really easy thing to do. I mean, we all have HD-capable cameras in our pockets right now — most people in this room, I bet — and it's something that's — I never want to forget another day that I've ever lived, and this is my way of doing that, and it'd be really interesting also to see, if you could just type in on a website, ""June 18, 2018,"" and you would just see a stream of people's lives on that particular day from all over the world. And I don't know, I think this project has a lot of possibilities, and I encourage you all to record just a small snippet of your life every day, so you can never forget that that day, you lived. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我是個藝術家。我住在紐約，從事廣告業—從我畢業後就入行至今已經七、八年了而且工作很累人我常常沒日沒夜地工作，週末也很常加班我發覺自己根本沒有時間去做自己想做的計畫 有天當我在工作時我看到施德明 (Stefan Sagmeister) 在 TED 上的演講題為《休假的力量》(""The power of time off"")他講到了他怎樣每隔七年就讓自己休一年的假好去進行自己的創意計畫那讓我靈機一動我心想：「我也要這樣做，我要休一年的假好騰出時間旅行跟與家人相處還要策劃自己的創意構想。」 而我著手進行的第一個計劃就是這個我取名為「每日一秒」的計劃基本上，就是錄下我每天生活中的一秒並且會一直錄下去按時序將這每一秒串連起來將我生命中的片刻組成一部連貫的影片直到我再也不能錄下來的時候 這個計劃的目的是第一我討厭忘記以前自己所做過的事有好一些事情是我盡心盡力去做的卻無從記憶起除非有人提起有時候我可能還會想說「喔，我是做過這樣的事情」而在這個計劃剛開始的時候我就發現如果我當天沒做什麼有趣的事情我可能就會忘記拍下影片所以那天 — 當我第一次忘記拍攝的時候我真的很難過因為我真的很想這樣做 —打從我踏入 30 歲的那刻我就想要將這個計劃一直延續到永遠而當我忘了那一秒後我發覺這個想法就好像烙印在我腦海裡似的是我再也不會忘記的 所以如果我活到 80 歲我就會有一部長達五小時的影片濃縮了我五十年的人生而當我四十歲的時候我就有一部片長一小時的影片紀錄了我三字頭的歲月為了拍攝我每天起床的時候都朝氣蓬勃並嘗試去做些有趣的事好讓那天不會白白度過 說到這裏其中我遇到的一個問題是隨着時光飛逝、日月如梭時間就好像開始變得模糊日復一日，日子重疊起來但你知道，我討厭這樣而視覺畫面是喚醒記憶的絕佳辦法可想而知這個計劃對我而言是能將空白填補起來好記住我曾經做過的所有事情即使只有一秒也足以讓我記起那一天所做過的其他事情有時要挑選這一秒挺困難的在美好的一天裡頭可能會有三到四秒是我都很想選的但我只能選其中的一秒但即使只剩下一秒也還是能讓我記起其餘的三秒 這個做法也是一種抗議純屬個人想法針對我們現有的一種文化那就是當人們觀賞演唱會的時候大家都只顧拿着手機攝錄整場演唱會但那其實會干擾到人他們自己也沒有好好欣賞表演他們只是透過手機在看演唱會我討厭這樣我承認我曾經也是如此但那是過去的事了現在我決定要以畫面來紀錄我人生中的最佳方式並且不做那個反面教材的人就是只錄下那一秒那足以觸發我記憶的一秒鐘「沒錯，那場演唱會很精采，我很喜歡那場演唱會。」即使只是浮光掠影的那一秒就已經足夠 今年夏天，我踏上三個月的駕車之旅那是我人生中一直夢寐以求的事就是開著車走遍美國和加拿大並且在當天才知道隔天要前往的目的地那種經驗著實讓人回味無窮我其實耗盡了所有積蓄因為這一路上的開支太多了原來打算用來放假一年的儲蓄都不夠用所以我去了一趟西雅圖我必須花一些時間與朋友一起接了一個條件不錯的案子來做當初我休假一年的其中一個原因就是想抽空多陪伴家人而這當中也發生了件不幸的事情我的嫂嫂有天她的腸道忽然打結我們就把她送到急症室她的狀況很糟甚至在鬼門關前徘徊了好幾次我每天都跟我兄弟在那裏一起守候這件事也讓我在這個計劃裡有了另一個體悟那就是要在過得很糟的一天錄下那一秒原來是那麼地不容易因為那不像 — 當我們在做些很酷的事情時我們自然而然地會想拿起鏡頭或是想說：「噢，對了這派對很棒，來拍張照吧。」當某天可能過得不太好或是發生了什麼很糟的事情時我們幾乎不會這樣做但我發現即使是在非常糟糕的時刻也堅持錄下那一秒其實非常重要它真能幫助你對美好的時光心存感激人生變幻無常當走到人生低谷的時候我認為把它記錄下來也很重要相當於記住美好日子一樣重要 我的做法之一就是不用任何濾鏡不添加任何東西去 — 我想儘量捕捉那個時刻就好像是我用雙眼來看那般真實我運用第一人稱視覺法則一開始，我拍了大概兩部影片但當中有我入鏡我發現不應該如此要真正記住我看見的一切就是要錄下我真正所見 關於這個計劃我腦中有兩個想法如果數以千計的人都這樣做那不是很有趣嗎？上星期我剛邁入 31 歲就是你們所看到的這幀影片如果能看看每個人會在這樣的一個影片裡做些什麼事情應該會很有趣我想每個人對這樣的一個影片應該都有不同的詮釋我想能夠透過一秒鐘去回想起過去的每一天是對大家有幫助的就我個人而言，我厭倦忘記而做這個影片真的很簡單畢竟現在基本上人人手上有一台高畫質攝錄機 —我猜，在座的大部份人吧 —而我實在 —不想再忘記任何我曾經活過的每一天而這是我的做法如果這能成真也會很有趣只要在一個網站上輸入「2018年6月18日」你就能看到一連串不同人的生活來自世界各地的人同一天的生活彼此相遇 我不確定，但我想這個計劃能開創許多可能性而我鼓勵在座各位，每天就錄下你生命裏頭的一小片段好讓自己永遠不會忘記你所活過的那一日 謝謝 (掌聲)"
