Talk	en	zh-tw
charles_robertson_africa_s_next_boom	"Africa is booming. Per capita incomes since the year 2000 have doubled, and this boom is impacting on everyone. Life expectancy has increased by one year every three years for the last decade. That means if an African child is born today, rather than three days ago, they will get an extra day of life at the end of their lifespan. It's that quick. And HIV infection rates are down 27 percent: 600,000 less people a year are getting HIV in sub-Saharan Africa. The battle against malaria is being won, with deaths from malaria down 27 percent, according to the latest World Bank data. And malaria nets actually are playing a role in that. This shouldn't surprise us, because actually, everybody grows. If you go back to Imperial Rome in the Year 1 A.D., there was admittedly about 1,800 years where there wasn't an awful lot of growth. But then the people that the Romans would have called Scottish barbarians, my ancestors, were actually part of the Industrial Revolution, and in the 19th century, growth began to accelerate, and you saw that get quicker and quicker, and it's been impacting everyone. It doesn't matter if this is the jungles of Singapore or the tundra of northern Finland. Everybody gets involved. It's just a matter of when the inevitable happens. Among the reasons I think it's happening right now is the quality of the leadership across Africa. I think most of us would agree that in the 1990s, the greatest politician in the world was African, but I'm meeting brilliant people across the continent the entire time, and they're doing the reforms which have transformed the economic situation for their countries. And the West is engaging with that. The West has given debt forgiveness programs which have halved sub-Saharan debt from about 70 percent of GDP down to about 40. At the same time, our debt level's gone up to 120 and we're all feeling slightly miserable as a result. Politics gets weaker when debt is high. When public sector debt is low, governments don't have to choose between investing in education and health and paying interest on that debt you owe. And it's not just the public sector which is looking so good. The private sector as well. Again, in the West, we have private sector debt of 200 percent of GDP in Spain, the U.K., and the U.S. That's an awful lot of debt. Africa, many African countries, are sitting at 10 to 30 percent of GDP. If there's any continent that can do what China has done — China's at about 130 percent of GDP on that chart — if anyone can do what China has done in the last 30 years, it'll be Africa in the next 30. So they've got great government finances, great private sector debt. Does anyone recognize this? In fact, they do. Foreign direct investment has poured into Africa in the last 15 years. Back in the '70s, no one touched the continent with a barge pole. And this investment is actually Western-led. We hear a lot about China, and they do lend a lot of money, but 60 percent of the FDI in the last couple of years has come from Europe, America, Australia, Canada. Ten percent's come from India. And they're investing in energy. Africa produces 10 million barrels a day of oil now. It's the same as Saudi Arabia or Russia. And they're investing in telecoms, shopping malls. And this very encouraging story, I think, is partly demographic-led. And it's not just about African demographics. I'm showing you the number of 15- to 24-year-olds in various parts of the world, and the blue line is the one I want you to focus on for a second. Ten years ago, say you're Foxconn setting up an iPhone factory, by chance. You might choose China, which is the bulk of that East Asian blue line, where there's 200 million young people, and every year until 2010 that's getting bigger. Which means you're going to have new guys knocking on the door saying, ""Give us a job,"" and, ""I don't need a big pay rise, just please give me a job."" Now, that's completely changed now. This decade, we're going to see a 20- to 30-percent fall in the number of 15- to 24-year-olds in China. So where do you set up your new factory? You look at South Asia, and people are. They're looking at Pakistan and Bangladesh, and they're also looking at Africa. And they're looking at Africa because that yellow line is showing you that the number of young Africans is going to continue to get bigger decade after decade after decade out to 2050. Now, there's a problem with lots of young people coming into any market, particularly when they're young men. A bit dangerous, sometimes. I think one of the crucial factors is how educated is that demographic? If you look at the red line here, what you're going to see is that in 1975, just nine percent of kids were in secondary school education in sub-Saharan Africa. Would you set up a factory in sub-Sahara in the mid-1970s? Nobody else did. They chose instead Turkey and Mexico to set up the textiles factories, because their education levels were 25 to 30 percent. Today, sub-Sahara is at the levels that Turkey and Mexico were at in 1975. They will get the textiles jobs that will take people out of rural poverty and put them on the road to industrialization and wealth. So what's Africa looking like today? This is how I look at Africa. It's a bit odd, because I'm an economist. Each little box is about a billion dollars, and you see that I pay an awful lot of attention to Nigeria sitting there in the middle. South Africa is playing a role. But when I'm thinking about the future, I'm actually most interested in Central, Western and Southern Africa. If I look at Africa by population, East Africa stands out as so much potential. And I'm showing you something else with these maps. I'm showing you democracy versus autocracy. Fragile democracies is the beige color. Strong democracies are the orange color. And what you'll see here is that most Africans are now living in democracies. Why does that matter? Because what people want is what politicians try, they don't always succeed, but they try and deliver. And what you've got is a reinforcing positive circle going on. In Ghana in the elections, in December 2012, the battle between the two candidates was over education. One guy offered free secondary school education to all, not just 30 percent. The other guy had to say, I'm going to build 50 new schools. He won by a margin. So democracy is encouraging governments to invest in education. Education is helping growth and investment, and that's giving budget revenues, which is giving governments more money, which is helping growth through education. It's a positive, virtuous circle. But I get asked this question, and this particular question makes me quite sad: It's, ""But what about corruption? How can you invest in Africa when there's corruption?"" And what makes me sad about it is that this graph here is showing you that the biggest correlation with corruption is wealth. When you're poor, corruption is not your biggest priority. And the countries on the right hand side, you'll see the per capita GDP, basically every country with a per capita GDP of, say, less than 5,000 dollars, has got a corruption score of roughly, what's that, about three? Three out of 10. That's not good. Every poor country is corrupt. Every rich country is relatively uncorrupt. How do you get from poverty and corruption to wealth and less corruption? You see the middle class grow. And the way to do that is to invest, not to say I'm not investing in that continent because there's too much corruption. Now, I don't want to be an apologist for corruption. I've been arrested because I refused to pay a bribe — not in Africa, actually. But what I'm saying here is that we can make a difference and we can do that by investing. Now I'm going to let you in on a little not-so-secret. Economists aren't great at forecasting. Because the question really is, what happens next? And if you go back to the year 2000, what you'll find is The Economist had a very famous cover, ""The Hopeless Continent,"" and what they'd done is they'd looked at growth in Africa over the previous 10 years — two percent — and they said, what's going to happen in the next 10 years? They assumed two percent, and that made it a pretty hopeless story, because population growth was two and a half. People got poorer in Africa in the 1990s. Now 2012, The Economist has a new cover, and what does that new cover show? That new cover shows, well, Africa rising, because the growth over the last 10 years has been about five and a half percent. I would like to see if you can all now become economists, because if growth for the last 10 years has been five and a half percent, what do you think the IMF is forecasting for the next five years of growth in Africa? Very good. I think you're secretly saying to your head, probably five and a half percent. You're all economists, and I think, like most economists, wrong. No offense. What I like to do is try and find the countries that are doing exactly what Africa has already done, and it means that jump from 1,800 years of nothing to whoof, suddenly shooting through the roof. India is one of those examples. This is Indian growth from 1960 to 2010. Ignore the scale on the bottom for a second. Actually, for the first 20 years, the '60s and '70s, India didn't really grow. It grew at two percent when population growth was about two and a half. If that's familiar, that's exactly what happened in sub-Sahara in the '80s and the '90s. And then something happened in 1980. Boom! India began to explode. It wasn't a ""Hindu rate of growth,"" ""democracies can't grow."" Actually India could. And if I lay sub-Saharan growth on top of the Indian growth story, it's remarkably similar. Twenty years of not much growth and a trend line which is actually telling you that sub-Saharan African growth is slightly better than India. And if I then lay developing Asia on top of this, I'm saying India is 20 years ahead of Africa, I'm saying developing Asia is 10 years ahead of India, I can draw out some forecasts for the next 30 to 40 years which I think are better than the ones where you're looking backwards. And that tells me this: that Africa is going to go from a $2 trillion economy today to a $29 trillion economy by 2050. Now that's bigger than Europe and America put together in today's money. Life expectancy is going to go up by 13 years. The population's going to double from one billion to two billion, so household incomes are going to go up sevenfold in the next 35 years. And when I present this in Africa — Nairobi, Lagos, Accra — I get one question. ""Charlie, why are you so pessimistic?"" And you know what? Actually, I think they've got a point. Am I really saying that there can be nothing learned, yes from the positives in Asia and India, but also the negatives? Perhaps Africa can avoid some of the mistakes that have been made. Surely, the technologies that we're talking about here this last week, surely some of these can perhaps help Africa grow even faster? And I think here we can play a role. Because technology does let you help. You can go and download some of the great African literature from the Internet now. No, not right now, just 30 seconds. You can go and buy some of the great tunes. My iPod's full of them. Buy African products. Go on holiday and see for yourself the change that's happening. Invest. Perhaps hire people, give them the skills that they can take back to Africa, and their companies will grow an awful lot faster than most of ours here in the West. And then you and I can help make sure that for Africa, the 21st century is their century. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	非洲正欣欣向榮人均所得自2000年以來已倍增這樣的繁榮影響所有人民過去十年以來，平均壽命每三年增加一歲就是說今天誕生的非洲嬰兒比三天前出生的會多增加一天的壽命預期變化就是那麼快愛滋病毒的感染率下降了27%每年感染的人數減少60萬這是漠南非洲的數據對抗瘧疾也漸入佳境死亡率降低27%這是世界銀行的數據抗瘧疾蚊帳其實是功臣之一非洲的進步不足為奇因為事實上成長屢見不鮮回顧羅馬帝國時期從西元一年開始一般公認大約有一千八百年不見巨幅的成長然後我的祖先蘇格蘭人那個會被羅馬人視為野蠻的族群事實上卻參與了工業革命19世紀，成長開始加速速度節節上升並且影響無遠弗屆不論是雨林區的新加坡還是凍原區的北國芬蘭都參與其中，這只是遲早的問題是必然的結果 非洲現在成功的原因之一我認為是非洲領袖的才能我相信多數人會同意，1990年代全球最棒的政治家在非洲但是我遇到的俊彥非洲一直都不缺他們進行改革扭轉了經濟情勢改變了自己的國家 西方國家也有參與提出債務減免計畫漠南非洲的負債因而減半從GDP的七成降至大約四成同時西方的負債升至GDP的120%我們的心情都因此略為低落負債高，會削弱政治的力道當公債的負擔低政府就毋須選擇投資於教育和健康還是繳付欠款的利息不只是公共部門看好私營企業也不遜色西方的私營企業負債是GDP的兩倍，這是西班牙英國、美國的數字負債相當高許多非洲國家的負債則是GDP的一成至三成如果有個洲能做到中國已做到的——中國的負債是GDP的130%——如果有區域能達到中國過去30年來的成績應該是非洲未來的30年 既然財政、企業負債狀況都極佳有人慧眼識英雄嗎？確實有外商直接投資過去15年來已大量湧入回顧1970年代人人避非洲唯恐不及現在的投資其實是西方主導中國時常上新聞也確實提供非洲大量的貸款但是過去幾年，外商直接投資有六成來自歐洲、美國、澳洲、加拿大還有一成來自印度他們正在投資能源非洲現在日產一千萬桶石油不下於沙烏地阿拉伯或俄羅斯他們也在投資電信業大型購物中心我認為這個振奮人心的故事部分是由於人口因素而且不僅僅是非洲的人口圖上顯示的是15至24歲人口在世界各區域的分佈統計請注意藍色的線十年前，如果你是富士康假定要設立iPhone工廠中國可能會入選中國佔東亞藍線人口的大宗有兩億的年輕人而且在2010年以前，人口年年上升意味著新的年輕人會找上門來乞求工作會說「加薪不重要，給我工作就好」現在情況則完全不同2010年以後的十年中國15至24歲人口將減少兩到三成所以你該在哪裡設新工廠？大家開始注視南亞轉向巴基斯坦和孟加拉也在轉向非洲他們注視非洲因為圖上的黃線顯示非洲的青年人口將持續增長年復一年直到2050年 不過大量年輕人進入任何市場都會產生問題尤其是年輕男性有時候會有點危險我認為要素之一是年輕人的教育程度請觀察紅線可以看到1975年青少年只有9%接受中學教育這是漠南非洲的數據如果想設立工廠1970年代中期，會選漠南吗？沒有人這麼做他們選的是土耳其和墨西哥在那裡設立紡織廠因為中等學歷的青年佔人口的25%到30%如今漠南人口的教育程度已達土耳其和墨西哥1975年的水準漠南非洲會迎來紡織工作鄉下人會因而脫貧並且邁向工業化和富裕之路 所以非洲現況如何？這是我的觀點看起來有點怪，因為我是經濟學家每個小方格代表大約十億美元可以看得出來，我極為看重居中的奈及利亞南非現在有一定分量但是放眼未來其實我最感興趣的是非洲中部、西部、和南部如果從人口的角度東非鶴立雞群非常有潛力 這張圖還顯示了其他資訊顯示出民主和專制米黃色代表脆弱的民主橘色代表穩定的民主看得出來，大多數非洲人生活在民主社會這有什麼重要？因為民之所欲政客必從之他們未必成功，但是會嘗試、會履行結果會形成良性循環2012年12月在迦納的選舉兩位候選人對決議題是教育一位候選人承諾中學免費全民免費，不只是適齡人口的三成對手只得表示將會興建50所新學校他後來險勝所以民主制度鼓勵政府投資於教育教育有助於成長和投資從而提高稅收政府因此有更多經費這就是借助教育促進成長這就是良性循環 但是有人會問一個問題這個問題讓我非常難過他們問「腐敗怎麼辦？非洲腐敗，我們怎麼投資？」讓我難過的是這個圖所顯示的腐敗最大的相關因素是富裕貧窮的地方，不會急於解決腐敗右邊的國家請注意其人均GDP幾乎每個國家如果人均GDP低於五千美元其腐敗分數大概是，是三吧？十分只得三分。成績不佳貧窮國家都是腐敗的富裕國家相對比較不腐敗怎樣才能從貧窮和腐敗變成富裕和較不腐敗？擴大中產階級是答案擴大之道則是投資不要拒絕投資非洲只是因為腐敗猖獗 我倒不是要替腐敗辯護我曾因為拒絕行賄而被捕那次其實不是在非洲但是我要講的是我們可以發揮影響力可以用投資達到目的 我要透露一個不算秘密的小秘密經濟學家的預測不是很準因為牽涉到預知未來如果回顧2000年當年的《經濟學人》雜誌有個著名的封面「無望之洲」他們檢視了非洲前十年的成長紀錄：2%他們自問非洲下個十年的展望如何？他們假設還是2%前途因此看來無望因為人口的增長是2.5%1990年代非洲人變得更窮到了2012年，《經濟學人》有了新封面什麼樣的新封面？新封面顯示了非洲興起因為過去十年的成長率大約是5.5% 看看你們現在能否變成經濟學家如果過去十年的成長率是5.5%你們猜國際貨幣基金組織預測非洲下個五年的成長率為何？很好。我想你們在默想大概也是5.5%你們都成了經濟學家，而我認為像多數經濟學家一樣，你們錯了請別介意 我的目的是要找出一些國家他們也走過非洲走過的路就是歷經了1800年的沉寂突然一飛沖天印度就是這種國家這是印度1960年到2010年的成長圖請暫時忽略下方的標示其實開始的20年1960-70年代，印度成長平平只成長了2%其人口增長率則是2.5%如果似曾相識，因為這完全像非洲漠南1980-90年代然後1980年出現變化轟隆一聲，印度爆發了這不是所謂的「印度式成長」「民主國家無法成長」。印度真的成長了如果我把漠南的成長圖重疊在印度的成長圖上面二者非常相似都有二十年的滯怠期其實趨勢線顯示漠南非洲的成長率會略優於印度如果再加上亞洲發展中國家看得出來印度比非洲早發展20年亞洲發展中國家又比印度早十年我能以此做出預測未來30到40年的預測我認為準確度會超過只根據非洲過去紀錄的預測我的預測顯示非洲將從現在兩兆美元的經濟體躍升為2050年29兆美元的經濟體這個數字大於歐洲和美國現值的總和平均壽命將增加13歲人口將倍增從十億變成20億家戶所得將成長七倍再過35年這些均可實現我在非洲提出這些數據時在奈洛比、拉哥斯、阿克拉，我聽到一種質疑「查理，你的預測為什麼那麼悲觀？」 老實說我還真覺得他們有點道理我難道真的認定非洲不能汲取亞洲和印度的優點以及失敗的經驗？或許非洲能避免重蹈一些覆轍當然，在這裡討論過的科技上周討論過的科技其中總有一些或許能幫助非洲成長更快？我相信在場的都可以參與因為可以藉由科技幫上忙你現在就可以下載一些非洲文學巨著這些都在網上別現在下載，我再30秒就會講完你可以買些很棒的非洲音樂我的iPod裡面有很多購買非洲產品去非洲度假，親眼觀察日新月異的非洲投資或許聘用非洲人，傳授技能他們學成後返回非洲其公司的成長速度會遠高於大多數西方公司然後你我可以幫忙成全一件事：讓21世紀成為非洲的世紀 非常感謝 (掌聲)
