Talk	en	zh-tw
charity_wayua_a_few_ways_to_fix_an_ailing_government	"Growing up in Kenya, I knew I always wanted to study biochemistry. See, I had seen the impact of the high prevalence of diseases like malaria, and I wanted to make medicines that would cure the sick. So I worked really hard, got a scholarship to the United States, where I became a cancer researcher, and I loved it. For someone who wants to cure diseases, there is no higher calling. Ten years later, I returned to Kenya to do just that. A freshly minted PhD, ready to take on this horrific illness, which in Kenya was almost certainly a death sentence. But instead of landing a job in a pharmaceutical company or a hospital, I found myself drawn to a different kind of lab, working with a different kind of patient — a patient whose illness was so serious it impacted every single person in my country; a patient who needed to get healthy fast. That patient was my government. (Laughter) See, many of us will agree that lots of governments are unhealthy today. (Laughter) (Applause) And Kenya was no exception. When I returned to Kenya in 2014, there was 17 percent youth unemployment. And Nairobi, the major business hub, was rated 177th on the quality of living index. It was bad. Now, an economy is only as healthy as the entities that make it up. So when government — one of its most vital entities — is weak or unhealthy, everyone and everything suffers. Sometimes you might put a Band-Aid in place to try and temporarily stop the pain. Maybe some of you here have participated in a Band-Aid operation to an African country — setting up alternative schools, building hospitals, digging wells — because governments there either weren't or couldn't provide the services to their citizens. We all know this is a temporary solution. There are just some things Band-Aids can't fix, like providing an environment where businesses feel secure that they'll have an equal opportunity to be able to run and start their businesses successfully. Or there are systems in place that would protect the private property that they create. I would argue, only government is capable of creating these necessary conditions for economies to thrive. Economies thrive when business are able to quickly and easily set up shop. Business owners create new sources of income for themselves, new jobs get added into the economy and then more taxes are paid to fund public projects. New business is good for everyone. And it's such an important measure of economic growth, the World Bank has a ranking called the ""Ease of Doing Business Ranking,"" which measures how easy or difficult it is to start a business in any given country. And as you can imagine, starting or running a business in a country with an ailing government — almost impossible. The President of Kenya knew this, which is why in 2014, he came to our lab and asked us to partner with him to be able to help Kenya to jump-start business growth. He set an ambitious goal: he wanted Kenya to be ranked top 50 in this World Bank ranking. In 2014 when he came, Kenya was ranked 136 out of 189 countries. We had our work cut out for us. Fortunately, he came to the right place. We're not just a Band-Aid kind of team. We're a group of computer scientists, mathematicians, engineers and a cancer researcher, who understood that in order to cure the sickness of a system as big as government, we needed to examine the whole body, and then we needed to drill down all the way from the organs, into the tissues, all the way to single cells, so that we could properly make a diagnosis. So with our marching orders from the President himself, we embarked on the purest of the scientific method: collecting data — all the data we could get our hands on — making hypotheses, creating solutions, one after the other. So we met with hundreds of individuals who worked at government agencies, from the tax agency, the lands office, utilities company, the agency that's responsible for registering companies, and with each of them, we observed them as they served customers, we documented their processes — most of them were manual. We also just went back and looked at a lot of their previous paperwork to try and really understand; to try and diagnose what bodily malfunctions had occurred that lead to that 136th spot on the World Bank list. What did we find? Well, in Kenya it was taking 72 days for a business owner to register their property, compared to just one day in New Zealand, which was ranked second on the World Bank list. It took 158 days to get a new electric connection. In Korea it took 18 days. If you wanted to get a construction permit so you could put up a building, in Kenya, it was going to take you 125 days. In Singapore, which is ranked first, that would only take you 26 days. God forbid you had to go to court to get help in being able to settle a dispute to enforce a contract, because that process alone would take you 465 days. And if that wasn't bad enough, you would lose 40 percent of your claim in just fees — legal fees, enforcement fees, court fees. Now, I know what you're thinking: for there to exist such inefficiencies in an African country, there must be corruption. The very cells that run the show must be corrupt to the bone. I thought so, too, actually. When we started out, I thought I was going to find so much corruption, I was literally going to either die or get killed in the process. (Laughter) But when we dug deeper, we didn't find corruption in the classic sense: slimy gangsters lurking in the darkness, waiting to grease the palms of their friends. What we found was an overwhelming sense of helplessness. Our government was sick, because government employees felt helpless. They felt that they were not empowered to drive change. And when people feel stuck and helpless, they stop seeing their role in a bigger system. They start to think the work they do doesn't matter in driving change. And when that happens, things slow down, fall through the cracks and inefficiencies flourish. Now imagine with me, if you had a process you had to go through — had no other alternative — and this process was inefficient, complex and very, very slow. What would you do? I think you might start by trying to find somebody to outsource it to, so that they can just take care of that for you. If that doesn't work, maybe you'd consider paying somebody to just ""unofficially"" take care of it on your behalf — especially if you thought nobody was going to catch you. Not out of malice or greed, just trying to make sure that you get something to work for you so you can move on. Unfortunately, that is the beginning of corruption. And if left to thrive and grow, it seeps into the whole system, and before you know it, the whole body is sick. Knowing this, we had to start by making sure that every single stakeholder we worked with had a shared vision for what we wanted to do. So we met with everyone, from the clerk whose sole job is to remove staples from application packets, to the legal drafters at the attorney general's office, to the clerks who are responsible for serving business owners when they came to access government services. And with them, we made sure that they understood how their day-to-day actions were impacting our ability as a country to create new jobs and to attract investments. No one's role was too small; everyone's role was vital. Now, guess what we started to see? A coalition of government employees who are excited and ready to drive change, began to grow and form. And together we started to implement changes that impacted the service delivery of our country. The result? In just two years, Kenya's ranking moved from 136 to 92. (Applause) And in recognition of the significant reforms we've been able to implement in such a short time, Kenya was recognized to be among the top three global reformers in the world two years in a row. (Applause) Are we fully healthy? No. We have some serious work still to do. I like to think about these two years like a weight-loss program. (Laughter) It's that time after months of hard, grueling work at the gym, and then you get your first time to weigh yourself, and you've lost 20 pounds. You're feeling unstoppable. Now, some of you may think this doesn't apply to you. You're not from Kenya. You don't intend to be an entrepreneur. But think with me for just a moment. When is the last time you accessed a government service? Maybe applied for your driver's license, tried to do your taxes on your own. It's easy in this political and global economy to want to give up when we think about transforming government. We can easily resign to the fact or to the thinking that government is too inefficient, too corrupt, unfixable. We might even rarely get some key government responsibilities to other sectors, to Band-Aid solutions, or to just give up and feel helpless. But just because a system is sick doesn't mean it's dying. We cannot afford to give up when it comes to the challenges of fixing our governments. In the end, what really makes a government healthy is when healthy cells — that's you and I — get to the ground, roll up our sleeves, refuse to be helpless and believe that sometimes, all it takes is for us to create some space for healthy cells to grow and thrive. Thank you. (Applause)"	在肯亞長大的我，知道自己一直很想學習生物化學。我見過像瘧疾這樣高度流行的疾病所造成的影響，我想要製作出能治癒疾病的醫藥。所以我非常努力，得到了赴美深造的獎學金，成為癌症研究學家，我熱愛自己的工作。對於一個希望能治病的人來說，沒有比這個更高的使命。 十年後我回到肯亞，就是為了繼續這樣的使命。戴上全新的博士光環，準備好對抗這可怕的疾病。對當時的肯亞來說，得了癌症就等於被判了死刑。但是我並沒有進入藥廠，或到醫院工作，我發現自己被引領到另一種實驗室，為另一種病人工作──這位病人病得非常嚴重，影響了我祖國的每一個人，這個病人亟待恢復健康，這個病人就是我們的政府。 （笑聲） 很多人應該都會同意，如今許多政府都不太健康。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 肯亞也不例外。當我在 2014 年返回肯亞時，青年失業率是 17%，主要商業樞紐──首都奈洛比，生活品質指標名列第 177 名，情況非常糟。 只有在組成的實體都健全的狀況下，一個經濟體才會健全。所以當政府──也就是其中最重要的實體──不健全或很虛弱時，所有人事物都會受苦。有時候你會想要貼上 OK 繃，試著暫時止痛，或許你們其中有些人曾經參與幫非洲國家貼上 OK 繃的過程──設立另類學校、建造醫院、挖水井──因為那裡的政府不願意或無法提供人民這些服務。 我們都知道這只是暫時的辦法，有一些事情光用 OK 繃是無法解決的，像是提供讓企業感覺安全的環境，讓大家有平等的機會可以成功地開始經商，或是讓制度到位，保護大家創造出來的私有財產。我認為，只有政府才有能力創造出讓經濟蓬勃發展的必要環境。 當企業可以簡單快速地設立商店，就能促進經濟繁榮。企業經營者為自己創造新的收入來源，經濟體增加了新的工作機會，就會帶來更多稅收，進而發展公共計畫。新的企業對大家都有益處，也是測量經濟成長的重要指標。世界銀行有一項「經商便利度」排名，測量在任何國家開始經商的難易度。你們可以想像，要在一個有惡質政府的國家開始經商，是幾乎不可能的。 肯亞的總統深諳此理，因此在 2014 年，他來到我們的實驗室，希望我們與他合作，幫助肯亞加速企業成長。他訂了一個很有野心的目標：他希望肯亞能在世界銀行的排名中名列前 50 名，他 2014 年來找我們的時候，肯亞在 189 個國家中名列第 136。我們的任務非常艱鉅。 幸好，他找對地方了。我們不是只會貼 OK 繃的團隊，我們是一群電腦科學家、數學家、工程師，還有癌症研究學家。我們知道如果要治療像政府這麼大的一個系統，我們需要檢驗整個身體，我們需要深入各個器官，還有所有身體組織，直到每一個單一細胞，才能做出正確的診斷。 所以我們帶著總統本人的成命，採用最純粹的科學方法：收集資料──所有我們能夠取得的資料──作出假設、建立解決方案、一步接著一步去做。 我們面談了數百位在政府機關工作的人，包括稅務機關、地政機關、公用事業、負責公司登記的機關，我們觀察每一位人員服務客戶時的狀況，我們記錄了所有流程──因為大部分是人工的。我們還回頭查看許多過去的公文，試著深入了解，試著診斷身體功能發生哪些問題，導致我們被世界銀行排在第 136 名。 我們發現什麼呢？在肯亞，企業經營者需要 72 天才能登記其產業。而世界銀行名單排名第二的紐西蘭只需要一天。安裝新的電路管線需要 158 天，在韓國只要 18 天。如果你需要蓋房子的建築許可，在肯亞要花上 125 天，而排名第一的新加坡只需要 26 天。如果想上法庭解決糾紛、執行合約，希望不會發生，因為光是這個程序就會花上 465 天。這還不夠糟，光是需要支付的費用，就會讓你損失索賠的 40 %，像是律師費、執行費、訴訟費。 我知道你在想什麼：一個非洲國家有這麼差的辦事效率，表示一定存在貪汙。操縱全局的核心人物一定都腐敗到骨子裡了。事實上，我也這麼以為。剛開始的時候，我以為我會發現各種貪污腐敗，我可能會在過程中真的死掉或是被殺。 （笑聲） 但是隨著我們的調查逐漸深入，我們並沒有發現一般人認為的那種腐敗：在暗處潛伏的狡猾黑道，等著賄賂徇私。我們發現的，是排山倒海而來的無力感。我們的政府生病了，因為政府職員感到無可奈何。他們覺得自己沒有被賦予可以改變現狀的能力。而當人們感到無奈受困時，他們再也看不見自己在大體制裡面的角色，開始認為自己的工作不會帶來改變。當這種情況發生時，一切都開始變慢，像掉進黑暗的狹縫中，效率越來越低。 現在跟我一起想像，如果你有一個辦公程序需要去跑──沒有其他替代方案──而這個程序既複雜又沒效率，而且非常緩慢耗時。你會怎麼做？可能你一開始會另外找人去做，讓別人幫你搞定。如果還是不行，你可能會考慮付錢，讓人｢私下｣幫你處理──尤其是你覺得不會被發現的話。不是出於惡意或貪欲，只是想確保事情可以辦成，好讓你繼續下一步。不幸的是，這就是腐敗的開端。而且如果放任它繼續擴大，就會滲透到整個體制中，然後在你還沒發現的時候，整個體制就已經生病了。 了解到這一點，我們首先必須確認，每一位合作的相關人士，都對我們要做的事情擁有共同的願景。因此我們和所有人見面，從工作內容是拆除申請文件訂書針的職員，到總檢察長辦公室的法律文書起草人，以及企業經營者到政府機關辦事時，負責接待的櫃臺人員。和他們一起，我們確保大家都能了解，他們每天的一舉一動，都會影響整個國家創造新的工作機會以及吸引資金的能力。沒有人的角色輕如鴻毛，每個人都至關重要。 那麼，來猜猜看，我們看到怎樣的改變？一個所有人都充滿期待而且準備好做出改變的政府職員聯盟，開始形成並茁壯。大家團結起來開始行動，進行影響我們政府服務品質的改變。 結果呢？短短兩年時間，肯亞的排名從 136 名上升到 92 名。 （掌聲） 為了表揚我們在這麼短的時間做出顯著的改革，肯亞連續兩年受到表揚為全球前三名改革者。 （掌聲） 我們完全恢復健康了嗎？還沒有。我們仍有許多要努力的地方。我喜歡把這兩年想成是減肥計畫。 （笑聲） 在健身房裡努力了好幾個月，然後終於第一次量自己的體重，發現自己瘦了 20 磅。你覺得再也沒有什麼可以阻擋自己。 你們之中有些人可能認為這與你無關。你不是肯亞人、你並不想成為企業家。但是請跟我一起思考一下。你上次到政府機關辦事是什麼時候？可能是申請駕照、想要自己報稅等等。在這個充滿政治的全球經濟體中，當我們希望政府轉型時，很容易就會想放棄。我們輕易就向現實投降，或是認為政府效率太差、太腐敗、無法修復。我們甚至很少負起重要的政府責任，可能推託給其他部門、依賴貼 OK 繃的方式，或是乾脆放棄覺得無可奈何。一個體制生病並不代表沒救了，面對改善政府的挑戰時，我們責無旁貸。 畢竟，讓政府健全的關鍵，是所有健康的細胞──也就是你我──腳踏實地、捲起袖管、拒絕感到無奈，然後堅信其實有時候，我們需要做的只是創造一個空間，讓健康的細胞能夠成長茁壯。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
