Talk	en	zh-tw
chelsea_shields_how_i_m_working_for_change_inside_my_church	"Religion is more than belief. It's power, and it's influence. And that influence affects all of us, every day, regardless of your own belief. Despite the enormous influence of religion on the world today, we hold them to a different standard of scrutiny and accountability than any other sector of our society. For example, if there were a multinational organization, government or corporation today that said no female could be on a leadership board, not one woman could have a decision-making authority, not one woman could handle any financial matter, we would have outrage. There would be sanctions. And yet this is a common practice in almost every world religion today. We accept things in our religious lives that we do not accept in our secular lives, and I know this because I've been doing it for three decades. I was the type of girl that fought every form of gender discrimination growing up. I played pickup basketball games with the boys and inserted myself. I said I was going to be the first female President of the United States. I have been fighting for the Equal Rights Amendment, which has been dead for 40 years. I'm the first woman in both sides of my family to ever work outside the home and ever receive a higher education. I never accepted being excluded because I was a woman, except in my religion. Throughout all of that time, I was a part of a very patriarchal orthodox Mormon religion. I grew up in an enormously traditional family. I have eight siblings, a stay-at-home mother. My father's actually a religious leader in the community. And I grew up in a world believing that my worth and my standing was in keeping these rules that I'd known my whole life. You get married a virgin, you never drink alcohol, you don't smoke, you always do service, you're a good kid. Some of the rules we had were strict, but you followed the rules because you loved the people and you loved the religion and you believed. Everything about Mormonism determined what you wore, who you dated, who you married. It determined what underwear we wore. I was the kind of religious where everyone I know donated 10 percent of everything they earned to the church, including myself. From paper routes and babysitting, I donated 10 percent. I was the kind of religious where I heard parents tell children when they're leaving on a two-year proselytizing mission that they would rather have them die than return home without honor, having sinned. I was the type and the kind of religious where kids kill themselves every single year because they're terrified of coming out to our community as gay. But I was also the kind of religious where it didn't matter where in the world I lived, I had friendship, instantaneous mutual aid. This was where I felt safe. This is certainty and clarity about life. I had help raising my little daughter. So that's why I accepted without question that only men can lead, and I accepted without question that women can't have the spiritual authority of God on the Earth, which we call the priesthood. And I allowed discrepancies between men and women in operating budgets, disciplinary councils, in decision-making capacities, and I gave my religion a free pass because I loved it. Until I stopped, and I realized that I had been allowing myself to be treated as the support staff to the real work of men. And I faced this contradiction in myself, and I joined with other activists in my community. We've been working very, very, very hard for the last decade and more. The first thing we did was raise consciousness. You can't change what you can't see. We started podcasting, blogging, writing articles. I created lists of hundreds of ways that men and women are unequal in our community. The next thing we did was build advocacy organizations. We tried to do things that were unignorable, like wearing pants to church and trying to attend all-male meetings. These seem like simple things, but to us, the organizers, they were enormously costly. We lost relationships. We lost jobs. We got hate mail on a daily basis. We were attacked in social media and national press. We received death threats. We lost standing in our community. Some of us got excommunicated. Most of us got put in front of a disciplinary council, and were rejected from the communities that we loved because we wanted to make them better, because we believed that they could be. And I began to expect this reaction from my own people. I know what it feels like when you feel like someone's trying to change you or criticize you. But what utterly shocked me was throughout all of this work I received equal measures of vitriol from the secular left, the same vehemence as the religious right. And what my secular friends didn't realize was that this religious hostility, these phrases of, ""Oh, all religious people are crazy or stupid."" ""Don't pay attention to religion."" ""They're going to be homophobic and sexist."" What they didn't understand was that that type of hostility did not fight religious extremism, it bred religious extremism. Those arguments don't work, and I know because I remember someone telling me that I was stupid for being Mormon. And what it caused me to do was defend myself and my people and everything we believe in, because we're not stupid. So criticism and hostility doesn't work, and I didn't listen to these arguments. When I hear these arguments, I still continue to bristle, because I have family and friends. These are my people, and I'm the first to defend them, but the struggle is real. How do we respect someone's religious beliefs while still holding them accountable for the harm or damage that those beliefs may cause others? It's a tough question. I still don't have a perfect answer. My parents and I have been walking on this tightrope for the last decade. They're intelligent people. They're lovely people. And let me try to help you understand their perspective. In Mormonism, we believe that after you die, if you keep all the rules and you follow all the rituals, you can be together as a family again. And to my parents, me doing something as simple as having a sleeveless top right now, showing my shoulders, that makes me unworthy. I won't be with my family in the eternities. But even more, I had a brother die in a tragic accident at 15, and something as simple as this means we won't be together as a family. And to my parents, they cannot understand why something as simple as fashion or women's rights would prevent me from seeing my brother again. And that's the mindset that we're dealing with, and criticism does not change that. And so my parents and I have been walking this tightrope, explaining our sides, respecting one another, but actually invalidating each other's very basic beliefs by the way we live our lives, and it's been difficult. The way that we've been able to do that is to get past those defensive shells and really see the soft inside of unbelief and belief and try to respect each other while still holding boundaries clear. The other thing that the secular left and the atheists and the orthodox and the religious right, what they all don't understand was why even care about religious activism? I cannot tell you the hundreds of people who have said, ""If you don't like religion, just leave."" Why would you try to change it? Because what is taught on the Sabbath leaks into our politics, our health policy, violence around the world. It leaks into education, military, fiscal decision-making. These laws get legally and culturally codified. In fact, my own religion has had an enormous effect on this nation. For example, during Prop 8, my church raised over 22 million dollars to fight same-sex marriage in California. Forty years ago, political historians will say, that if it wasn't for the Mormon opposition to the Equal Rights Amendment, we'd have an Equal Rights Amendment in our Constitution today. How many lives did that affect? And we can spend time fighting every single one of these little tiny laws and rules, or we can ask ourselves, why is gender inequality the default around the world? Why is that the assumption? Because religion doesn't just create the roots of morality, it creates the seeds of normality. Religions can liberate or subjugate, they can empower or exploit, they can comfort or destroy, and the people that tip the scales over to the ethical and the moral are often not those in charge. Religions can't be dismissed or ignored. We need to take them seriously. But it's not easy to influence a religion, like we just talked about. But I'll tell you what my people have done. My groups are small, there's hundreds of us, but we've had huge impact. Right now, women's pictures are hanging in the halls next to men for the first time. Women are now allowed to pray in our church-wide meetings, and they never were before in the general conferences. As of last week, in a historic move, three women were invited down to three leadership boards that oversee the entire church. We've seen perceptual shifts in the Mormon community that allow for talk of gender inequality. We've opened up space, regardless of being despised, for more conservative women to step in and make real changes, and the words ""women"" and ""the priesthood"" can now be uttered in the same sentence. I never had that. My daughter and my nieces are inheriting a religion that I never had, that's more equal — we've had an effect. It wasn't easy standing in those lines trying to get into those male meetings. There were hundreds of us, and one by one, when we got to the door, we were told, ""I'm sorry, this meeting is just for men,"" and we had to step back and watch men get into the meeting as young as 12 years old, escorted and walked past us as we all stood in line. But not one woman in that line will forget that day, and not one little boy that walked past us will forget that day. If we were a multinational corporation or a government, and that had happened, there would be outrage, but we're just a religion. We're all just part of religions. We can't keep looking at religion that way, because it doesn't only affect me, it affects my daughter and all of your daughters and what opportunities they have, what they can wear, who they can love and marry, if they have access to reproductive healthcare. We need to reclaim morality in a secular context that creates ethical scrutiny and accountability for religions all around the world, but we need to do it in a respectful way that breeds cooperation and not extremism. And we can do it through unignorable acts of bravery, standing up for gender equality. It's time that half of the world's population had voice and equality within our world's religions, churches, synagogues, mosques and shrines around the world. I'm working on my people. What are you doing for yours? (Applause)"	信仰不只限於你相信什麼。信仰是權力，是影響力。那種影響力會影響所有人，每天都如此，不管你自己相信什麼。儘管現今宗教對世界的影響如此之大，我們仍然對宗教有不同的審查及問責標準，跟社會上其他部分都不一樣。比方說，如果今天有個跨國組織、政府或企業，說女性不能進入領導階層，女性不能有決定權，女性不能處理財務問題，我們會非常憤怒。我們會對之制裁。然而這卻是當今世界大多數宗教的常例。 我們在信仰生活上接受我們在世俗生活上無法接受的事，我知道這種狀況，因為我在過去三十年都是如此。我是那種在成長階段會抗爭各種性別歧視的女孩。我會自己擠進去跟男生玩三對三鬥牛。我宣稱自己要當美國第一位女總統。我一直在為「平權修正案」奮鬥，這個修正案在議院躺了 40 年。我是父母雙方家庭中，第一個在外面上班，並接受高等教育的女人。 我從不接受只因我是女人而被排除在外，除了我的宗教。那整段時間，我都屬於父權至上的正統摩爾門教。我在一個極為傳統的家庭長大。我有八個手足，媽媽是家庭主婦。我的父親其實是社區裡的宗教領袖。我長大的世界，篤信我的價值及立場就是為了持守我熟悉了一輩子的規定。妳婚前要保持處女之身，滴酒不沾，不抽菸，總是在教會服事，當個好小孩。有些規定很嚴，但是你還是會遵守，因為你愛這些人，你愛這個宗教，你也相信這個宗教。 摩爾門教的教義決定你穿什麼，你跟誰約會，你跟誰結婚。還規定我們穿什麼內衣褲。我可以說我很虔誠，因為我認識的每一個人都會把十分之一的收入奉獻給教會，包括我自己。無論是送報還是看小孩，我都捐十分之一。我就是那麼虔誠，即使我聽到家長在孩子要離家當兩年的傳教士時，對孩子說寧可讓孩子死，也不要他們回家時蒙羞、犯了罪。我就是那種那麼虔誠的人，即使每一年教裡都會有孩子自殺，因為他們害怕在社區出櫃。但我就是那麼虔誠，因為在我住的世界這些都不重要。我有友情，有即時的互助。我在那裡覺得安全，我有確定而清楚的人生。我有幫手能養大我的小女兒。這就是為什麼我毫不質疑的接受只有男人能當領袖，我毫不質疑的接受女人在世上沒有從神而來的屬靈權柄，也就是我們說的聖職。我容許教會在經常預算、在紀律委員會及在決策能力上，對男女有差別待遇，我給了我的宗教一張來去自如的通行證，因為我愛它。 直到我停下來，了解到我已經容許自己被視為男性工作的助手。我面對自身的矛盾，加入社區裡其他改革行動者的行列。我們在過去十幾年非常、非常、非常努力。 我們做的第一件事就是提高意識。你不能改變你沒看見的事。我們開始做播客 (podcasting)、寫部落格、寫文章。我洋洋灑灑寫下數百條我們社區裡男女不公平的現象。 然後我們建立倡導組織。我們試著做無法視而不見的事，像女生穿褲子上教會，並試著參加只有男性的聚會。這些事好像很簡單，但是對我們、對組織者而言，這些事犧牲很大。我們失去友誼。我們失去工作。我們每天都收到仇恨的信。我們在社群網路及全國新聞上被攻擊。我們還收到死亡威脅。我們在社區失去立場。有些人甚至被逐出教會。我們大部分的人都被押到紀律委員會前受審，被我們所愛的社區拒絕在外，只因為我們想要讓社區更好，只因為我們相信社區可以更好。 我已經開始預期我自己的族群會有這種反應。我知道在你覺得有人試著想改變你或批評你是什麼感覺。但讓我徹底震驚的，是我努力的這整段期間，我收到世俗左派的尖酸批評，跟宗教右派的憤怒話語一樣多。我的世俗朋友不明白的是這種對宗教的敵意，有些話像是，「喔，信教的都是瘋子笨蛋。」「不要管宗教。」「他們會仇視同性戀或性別歧視。」他們不明白的是這種敵視無法對抗宗教極端主義分子，只會培育宗教極端主義分子。這種論點沒有用，我知道，因為我記得有人告訴我我身為摩爾門教徒很笨。這使我要為自己、為我的族群及我們所相信的一切辯護，因為我們不笨。 所以批評及敵視沒有用，我也不聽這種論點。我聽到這種論點時，還是會怒髮衝冠，因為我有家人及朋友。他們是我的族群，我是第一個替他們辯護的人，但是其中的掙扎卻很真實。我們如何既能尊重別人的宗教信仰，又能讓他們負起責任，因為他們的信仰可能對他人造成傷害及損失？這是很難回答的問題。我仍然沒有兩全其美的答案。我的雙親與我在過去十年一直走在這條兩難的鋼索上。他們是聰明的人。他們是和善的人。讓我試著幫助你們了解他們的觀點。摩爾門教相信人死後，如果你生前持守教規、遵守儀文，你們就會再次成為一家人。對我的雙親而言，我的行為舉止，即使簡單如現在穿著一件無袖上衣，露出肩膀，都會讓我不配、蒙羞。我將無法在永生國度裡與家人相聚。更糟的是，我有個弟弟15 歲時死於一場不幸的意外，像這麼簡單的一件事，也意味著我們無法再成為一家人。對我的雙親而言，他們無法了解為什麼像時尚及女權這麼簡單的事，能讓我再也見不到弟弟。這就是他們的心態，這就是我們要面對的，批評不會改變這種心態。所以我的雙親和我走在這條兩難的鋼索上，我們解釋自己的觀點，尊重對方的觀點，實際卻不斷以我們的生活方式證明對方最基本的信念是錯的，這真的很難。我們之所以能這麼做，是我們超越防禦的堅硬外殼，真正領會信與不信的柔軟內面，試著既尊重彼此，又能維持自己的界限。 還有一件世俗左派、無神論者、正統教派、及宗教右翼都不了解的，就是到底為什麼要關注宗教行動主義？我不能用成千上萬個人說過的話回答你：「如果你不喜歡宗教，就離開吧！」為什麼你要試著改變它？因為在主日教導的宗教律法已經滲透進我們的政治、我們的健康政策，還有全世界的暴力活動。它還滲透進教育、軍事及財務決策。這些宗教律法已經正式編入法律及文化中。事實上，我自己的宗教對這個國家有著巨大的影響。比如在 8 號提案倡議期間，我的教會募到了二千二百萬美元用來對抗加州提出的同性婚姻法。四十年前，政治歷史學家會說，如果不是摩爾門教反對平權修正案，今天我們的憲法就會有平權修正案。有多少生命因此受到影響？我們可以花時間對抗每一條大大小小的法律規章，我們也可以問自己，為什麼全世界都默認性別不平等？為什麼是這樣的假設？ 因為宗教不只創造道德的根源，它還生出「正常」的種子。宗教可以解放或征服，可以賦權或濫權，可以安慰或毀滅，而會在倫理道德上顛覆平衡的人，通常都不是掌權的人。宗教無法被解散或忽視。我們必須認真面對宗教。但是要影響一門宗教並不容易，就像我們剛剛談的。 但是我要告訴你們我的夥伴做了什麼。我的團隊很小，只有幾百個人，但是我們的影響很大。現在，女性的照片可以與男性並列懸掛在教會大廳裡，這是首次見到。女性可以在全教會的聚會裡禱告，以前總會教友大會從來不准女性禱告。到上星期為止，有個歷史性的行動，三位女性受邀進入三個教會議會管理整個教會。我們在摩爾門社區看到知覺轉變，允許討論性別不平等。我們開放了空間，不顧鄙視，讓更多保守女性加入，產生真正的改變，而「女性」及「聖職」這兩個詞現在可以出現在同一句話上。在我過去的經驗中從未有過。我的女兒及姪輩繼承的宗教，是我以前沒有的，是更加平等的，我們的努力有了成效。 這很不容易，我們排在隊伍裡試著進入全是男性的聚會。我們有幾百個人，在會場門前一個接著一個被告知：「很抱歉，這場聚會只讓男性參加。」而我們必須退後，看著男性進入會場，連只有 12 歲的年輕人，都有人陪同越過我們進去，我們只能站在那裡排隊。但是曾經在那裡排隊的女性都不會忘記那一天，那些越過我們的小男孩都不會忘記那一天。 假使我們是跨國企業或政府，發生同樣的事，我們會非常憤怒，但是我們只是一門宗教。我們都只是宗教的一部分。我們不能老是用那樣的方法看宗教，因為它不僅影響我，還影響我的女兒、你們的女兒，及她們能有什麼機會，她們能穿什麼，她們能愛誰、跟誰結婚，她們是否能有生育保健。我們必須在世俗生活中重拾道德，以倫理檢視全世界的宗教，並讓他們負起責任，但是我們必須以尊重的方法來做，培育合作，而非極端分子。我們可以做到，以無法視而不見的勇敢行動捍衛性別平等。 現在是全世界一半人口在世界各宗教有聲音、有平等的時候，無論是教會、猶太會堂、清真寺還是寺廟。我在影響我的族群。你在為你的族群做什麼？ （掌聲）
