Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_bliss_comedy_is_translation	"Gabriel García Márquez is one of my favorite writers, for his storytelling, but even more, I think, for the beauty and precision of his prose. And whether it's the opening line from ""One Hundred Years of Solitude"" or the fantastical stream of consciousness in ""Autumn of the Patriarch,"" where the words rush by, page after page of unpunctuated imagery sweeping the reader along like some wild river twisting through a primal South American jungle, reading Márquez is a visceral experience. Which struck me as particularly remarkable during one session with the novel when I realized that I was being swept along on this remarkable, vivid journey in translation. Now I was a comparative literature major in college, which is like an English major, only instead of being stuck studying Chaucer for three months, we got to read great literature in translation from around the world. And as great as these books were, you could always tell that you were getting close to the full effect. But not so with Márquez who once praised his translator's versions as being better than his own, which is an astonishing compliment. So when I heard that the translator, Gregory Rabassa, had written his own book on the subject, I couldn't wait to read it. It's called apropos of the Italian adage that I lifted from his forward, ""If This Be Treason."" And it's a charming read. It's highly recommended for anyone who's interested in the translator's art. But the reason that I mention it is that early on, Rabassa offers this elegantly simple insight: ""Every act of communication is an act of translation."" Now maybe that's been obvious to all of you for a long time, but for me, as often as I'd encountered that exact difficulty on a daily basis, I had never seen the inherent challenge of communication in so crystalline a light. Ever since I can remember thinking consciously about such things, communication has been my central passion. Even as a child, I remember thinking that what I really wanted most in life was to be able to understand everything and then to communicate it to everyone else. So no ego problems. It's funny, my wife, Daisy, whose family is littered with schizophrenics — and I mean littered with them — once said to me, ""Chris, I already have a brother who thinks he's God. I don't need a husband who wants to be."" (Laughter) Anyway, as I plunged through my 20s ever more aware of how unobtainable the first part of my childhood ambition was, it was that second part, being able to successfully communicate to others whatever knowledge I was gaining, where the futility of my quest really set in. Time after time, whenever I set out to share some great truth with a soon-to-be grateful recipient, it had the opposite effect. Interestingly, when your opening line of communication is, ""Hey, listen up, because I'm about to drop some serious knowledge on you,"" it's amazing how quickly you'll discover both ice and the firing squad. Finally, after about 10 years of alienating friends and strangers alike, I finally got it, a new personal truth all my own, that if I was going to ever communicate well with other people the ideas that I was gaining, I'd better find a different way of going about it. And that's when I discovered comedy. Now comedy travels along a distinct wavelength from other forms of language. If I had to place it on an arbitrary spectrum, I'd say it falls somewhere between poetry and lies. And I'm not talking about all comedy here, because, clearly, there's plenty of humor that colors safely within the lines of what we already think and feel. What I want to talk about is the unique ability that the best comedy and satire has at circumventing our ingrained perspectives — comedy as the philosopher's stone. It takes the base metal of our conventional wisdom and transforms it through ridicule into a different way of seeing and ultimately being in the world. Because that's what I take from the theme of this conference: Gained in Translation. That it's about communication that doesn't just produce greater understanding within the individual, but leads to real change. Which in my experience means communication that manages to speak to and expand our concept of self-interest. Now I'm big on speaking to people's self-interest because we're all wired for that. It's part of our survival package, and that's why it's become so important for us, and that's why we're always listening at that level. And also because that's where, in terms of our own self-interest, we finally begin to grasp our ability to respond, our responsibility to the rest of the world. Now as to what I mean by the best comedy and satire, I mean work that comes first and foremost from a place of honesty and integrity. Now if you think back on Tina Fey's impersonations on Saturday Night Live of the newly nominated vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, they were devastating. Fey demonstrated far more effectively than any political pundit the candidate's fundamental lack of seriousness, cementing an impression that the majority of the American public still holds today. And the key detail of this is that Fey's scripts weren't written by her and they weren't written by the SNL writers. They were lifted verbatim from Palin's own remarks. (Laughter) Here was a Palin impersonator quoting Palin word for word. Now that's honesty and integrity, and it's also why Fey's performances left such a lasting impression. On the other side of the political spectrum, the first time that I heard Rush Limbaugh refer to presidential hopeful John Edwards as the Breck girl I knew that he'd made a direct hit. Now it's not often that I'm going to associate the words honesty and integrity with Limbaugh, but it's really hard to argue with that punchline. The description perfectly captured Edwards' personal vanity. And guess what? That ended up being the exact personality trait that was at the core of the scandal that ended his political career. Now The Daily Show with John Stewart is by far the most — (Applause) (Laughter) it's by far the most well-documented example of the effectiveness of this kind of comedy. Survey after survey, from Pew Research to the Annenberg Center for Public Policy, has found that Daily Show viewers are better informed about current events than the viewers of all major network and cable news shows. (Applause) Now whether this says more about the conflict between integrity and profitability of corporate journalism than it does about the attentiveness of Stewart's viewers, the larger point remains that Stewart's material is always grounded in a commitment to the facts — not because his intent is to inform. It's not. His intent is to be funny. It just so happens that Stewart's brand of funny doesn't work unless the facts are true. And the result is great comedy that's also an information delivery system that scores markedly higher in both credibility and retention than the professional news media. Now this is doubly ironic when you consider that what gives comedy its edge at reaching around people's walls is the way that it uses deliberate misdirection. A great piece of comedy is a verbal magic trick, where you think it's going over here and then all of a sudden you're transported over here. And there's this mental delight that's followed by the physical response of laughter, which, not coincidentally, releases endorphins in the brain. And just like that, you've been seduced into a different way of looking at something because the endorphins have brought down your defenses. This is the exact opposite of the way that anger and fear and panic, all of the flight-or-fight responses, operate. Flight-or-fight releases adrenalin, which throws our walls up sky-high. And the comedy comes along, dealing with a lot of the same areas where our defenses are the strongest — race, religion, politics, sexuality — only by approaching them through humor instead of adrenalin, we get endorphins and the alchemy of laughter turns our walls into windows, revealing a fresh and unexpected point of view. Now let me give you an example from my act. I have some material about the so-called radical gay agenda, which starts off by asking, how radical is the gay agenda? Because from what I can tell, the three things gay Americans seem to want most are to join the military, get married and start a family. (Laughter) Three things I've tried to avoid my entire life. (Laughter) Have at it you radical bastards. The field is yours. (Laughter) And that's followed by these lines about gay adoption: What is the problem with gay adoption? Why is this remotely controversial? If you have a baby and you think that baby's gay, you should be allowed to put it up for adoption. (Laughter) You have given birth to an abomination. Remove it from your household. Now by taking the biblical epithet ""abomination"" and attaching it to the ultimate image of innocence, a baby, this joke short circuits the emotional wiring behind the debate and it leaves the audience with the opportunity, through their laughter, to question its validity. Misdirection isn't the only trick that comedy has up its sleeve. Economy of language is another real strong suit of great comedy. There are few phrases that pack a more concentrated dose of subject and symbol than the perfect punchline. Bill Hicks — and if you don't know his work, you should really Google him — Hicks had a routine about getting into one of those childhood bragging contests on the playground, where finally the other kid says to him, ""Huh? Well my dad can beat up your dad,"" to which Hicks replies, ""Really? How soon?"" (Laughter) That's an entire childhood in three words. (Laughter) Not to mention what it reveals about the adult who's speaking them. And one last powerful attribute that comedy has as communication is that it's inherently viral. People can't wait to pass along that new great joke. And this isn't some new phenomenon of our wired world. Comedy has been crossing country with remarkable speed way before the Internet, social media, even cable TV. Back in 1980 when comedian Richard Pryor accidentally set himself on fire during a freebasing accident, I was in Los Angeles the day after it happened and then I was in Washington D.C. two days after that. And I heard the exact same punchline on both coasts — something about the Ignited Negro College Fund. Clearly, it didn't come out of a Tonight Show monologue. And my guess here — and I have no research on this — is that if you really were to look back at it and if you could research it, you'd find out that comedy is the second oldest viral profession. First there were drums and then knock-knock jokes. (Laughter) But it's when you put all of these elements together — when you get the viral appeal of a great joke with a powerful punchline that's crafted from honesty and integrity, it can have a real world impact at changing a conversation. Now I have a close friend, Joel Pett, who's the editorial cartoonist for the Lexington Herald-Leader. And he used to be the USA Today Monday morning guy. I was visiting with Joel the weekend before the Copenhagen conference on climate change opened in December of 2009. And Joel was explaining to me that, because USA Today was one of America's four papers of record, it would be scanned by virtually everyone in attendance at the conference, which meant that, if he hit it out of the park with his cartoon on Monday, the opening day of the conference, it could get passed around at the highest level among actual decision-makers. So we started talking about climate change. And it turned out that Joel and I were both bothered by the same thing, which was how so much of the debate was still focused on the science and how complete it was or wasn't, which, to both of us, seems somewhat intentionally off point. Because first of all, there's this false premise that such a thing as complete science exists. Now Governor Perry of my newly-adopted state of Texas was pushing this same line this past summer at the beginning of his oops-fated campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, proclaiming over and over that the science wasn't complete at the same time that 250 out of 254 counties in the state of Texas were on fire. And Perry's policy solution was to ask the people of Texas to pray for rain. Personally, I was praying for four more fires so we could finally complete the damn science. (Laughter) But back in 2009, the question Joel and I kept turning over and over was why this late in the game so much energy was being spent talking about the science when the policies necessary to address climate change were unequivocally beneficial for humanity in the long run regardless of the science. So we tossed it back and forth until Joel came up with this. Cartoon: ""What if it's a big hoax and we create a better world for nothing?"" (Laughter) You've got to love that idea. (Applause) How about that? How about we create a better world for nothing? Not for God, not for country, not for profit — just as a basic metric for global decision-making. And this cartoon hit the bull's eye. Shortly after the conference was over, Joel got a request for a signed copy from the head of the EPA in Washington whose wall it now hangs on. And not long after that, he got another request for a copy from the head of the EPA in California who used it as part of her presentation at an international conference on climate change in Sacramento last year. And it didn't stop there. To date, Joel's gotten requests from over 40 environmental groups, in the United States, Canada and Europe. And earlier this year, he got a request from the Green Party in Australia who used it in their campaign where it became part of the debate that resulted in the Australian parliament adopting the most rigorous carbon tax regime of any country in the world. (Applause) That is a lot of punch for 14 words. So my suggestion to those of you out here who are seriously focused on creating a better world is to take a little bit of time each day and practice thinking funny, because you might just find the question that you've been looking for. Thank you. (Applause)"	Gabriel Garcia Marquez是我最喜歡的作者之一，這是因為他的說書方式，但更大的原因是他散文的漂亮和精確度。不論是《百年獨處》的開頭或是《獨裁者的黃昏》中文字奔馳的幻想流意識寫法，一頁頁不斷的意像將讀者如瘋狂河流般席捲過南美國原始叢林，讀Marquez是很發自內心的體驗。讓我特別訝異的是在書中的某一段，我發現我被帶上一趟生動非凡的翻譯之旅。 我大學是主修比較文學的，有點像是英文主修，只是我們不會花三個月的時間都在讀Chaucer，而是讀很多全球偉大的翻譯文學。但就算這些書很棒，你仍舊總是感覺到沒有完全達到效果。但在Marquez的作品中不會如此，他甚至曾經讚美翻譯的版本比他自己的還要好，這真是個非常驚人的讚美。 所以當我知道那名譯者Gregory Rabassa要寫一本關於這個主題的書時，我等不及要看。我從序中瞭解到這在義大利格言中叫作apropos「若這是背叛」這是本很迷人的書。非常推薦給任何對翻譯藝術有興趣的人。但我提這個的原因是在書很前面的地方，Rabassa提出一個很優雅的見解：「每一個溝通的舉動都是一個翻譯的舉動。」 這對於在座很多人或許是顯而易見的，但對我來說就算我每天都會有一模一樣的問題，我從來沒有這麼清楚地看待溝通背後的挑戰性。從我有認知以來有意識的思考這樣的事情，溝通一直都是我很有熱情的東西。就算還是個小孩子，我記得當時的我覺得這一生中最想要的是能瞭解所有事情然後告訴所有人這些事情。所以沒有自尊的問題。很有趣的是，我老婆黛西，她們家充斥著精神分裂症患者，我真的是要說充斥著，她曾跟我說：「Chris，我已經有一個認為自己是神的哥哥了，我不需要一個想要成為神的老公。」 （笑聲） 所以呢，在我到達二十幾歲時，我更瞭解到我小時候的志向有多麼難達成，我的志向的第二部份，就是能夠將我所知道的傳達給別人，幾乎是徒勞無功的。一次又一次的，每當我試著將我得到的真理傳達給馬上會很感激我的對象時，總是產生相反的效果。很有趣的，當你一開始時這麼說：「仔細聽，因為我要告訴你們一些很重要的知識。」很奇妙的是，你會很快發現那些很想聽和很不想聽的觀眾。 最後，在經過十年與朋友及陌生人疏離的日子後，我終於懂了，一個我自己找到的真理，就是如果我希望能夠跟別人談論我所擁有的想法，我最好找一個新的方式。那正是我發現喜劇的時候。 喜劇跟其他種語言形式是在一個很不一樣的波段上。如果我可以在一個隨意的波譜上給他一個位置，那麼他應該會在詩和謊言中間。而我不是在說全部的喜劇，因為，很顯然的，有很多幽默是在我們已經感受到的範圍內。我想要談的是最好的喜劇和諷刺劇能夠改變我們已經習慣的想法，喜劇被當成一個哲學里程碑。它把我們傳統智慧最根本的東西拿來用可笑的方式將之轉型從一個不一樣的角度看以至於最終誕生於這個世界。因為這是我如何看這個會議的主題：在翻譯中成長。就是這是在談溝通，就是不是只是在個人腦內產生新的見解，而是真的有所改變。在我的經驗中就是溝通可以增長及為自我意識發聲。我很愛談人們的自我利益，因為我們都以此為出發點。這是我們求生的本能，也是為什麼這對我們這麼重要，也是為什麼我們總是以此來觀察世界。也因為那是我們以自我利益為出發點，我們才能在最後開始瞭解我們如何對世界做出回應、如何對世界負責。 我說的最好的喜劇和諷刺劇的是可以以誠實和誠信為最一開始的出發點的那些作品。現在如果你想想Tina Fey在「星期六即時論壇」中模仿剛被提名為副總統候選人Sarah Palin的樣子，那是非常具破壞性的。Fey比任何一個政治權威人物更有效的表示出候選人普遍缺乏嚴肅性，這更加鞏固現今美國政治大部份的現象。而很重要的是Fey的劇本不是她寫的，也不是SNL作者群寫的。她的劇本是從Palin自己曾說過的話來的。（笑聲）這就是個利用Palin說過的話的模仿者。這是非常誠實且誠信的，也是為什麼Fey的表演那麼發人省思。 在政治的另一方面，當我第一次聽到Rush Limbaugh將總統候選人John Edwards比做布雷克女孩時，我知道他完全打到要點了。我不常將Limbaugh跟誠實、誠信這樣的字眼放在一起，但很難跟這樣的妙語作對。這個描述完美和Edward的虛榮吻合。而且你知道嗎？那正是讓他最後結束他的政治生涯的醜聞的個性。 John Steward的《Daily Show》是有史以來最—（掌聲）（笑聲）它是這類喜劇的效果的最佳代表。一個個的問卷，從Pew Research到Anneberg公共政策中心的問卷都顯示看《Daily Show》的人比看其它任何節目的人更瞭解時事。 （掌聲） 不管這節目在談公司新聞中的誠信和獲利衝突比較多，還是談Stewart的觀眾的專心度比較多，重點是Stewart的內容都跟有事實根據的。這不是因為他企圖要告知大眾這些事情。他的企圖是想要搞笑。只是Stewart搞笑的方式如果不是有這些事實存在就不好笑了。結果就是個很棒的喜劇，也同時扮演了訊息告知的角色，且在信譽和事實保留度都比專業媒體還好。這是很諷刺的，因為喜劇能夠進入人們心裡，就是刻意往不對的方向去鑽。 一段很棒的喜劇會有口頭上的魔術，就是你以為你在這裡，但很突然的你已經被輾轉到那裡去了。然後在笑聲過後，會有一個精神愉悅感，跟腦內分泌腦內啡的狀況是一樣的，而這不是巧合。就這樣，你被帶進一個不一樣的思維，因為腦內啡已經瓦解了你的防衛。這跟憤怒、害怕、恐慌，所有戰鬥或逃跑反應的作法是剛好相反的。戰鬥或逃跑反應會釋放腎上腺素，大大增強我們的防衛性。而喜劇正討論這些我們防衛性最強的議題：種族、宗教、政治、兩性，但不是用腎上腺素而是用幽默感。從中我們分泌腦內啡，且笑聲巧妙地將我們的防衛牆轉成窗口，而展現出新的、未預期的觀點。 現在讓我給你我的喜劇的例子。我有一些關於同性戀議題的資料。一開始要問，同性戀議題有多激進？因為我認為，美國同性戀們最想要做的三件事情是加入國軍、結婚、和組家庭。（笑聲）這是我這一生一直試著避免的三件事情。（笑聲）拿去吧，你們這些激進的混帳，這些領域現在是你們的了。 （笑聲） 這接下來是這些關於同性戀收養的句子：同性戀收養有什麼問題？為什麼這問題這麼有爭議？如果你有個嬰兒且你認為這個嬰兒是同性戀，你應該要被允許將他放入可被收養的名單。（笑聲）你生了一個被厭惡的東西。把它從家裡移除。現在，把這個聖經上喻為「厭惡」的東西，將它跟一個無辜的形象「嬰兒」放在一起，這個笑話就在情感上短路了，所以給了觀眾一個在笑聲中，可以去懷疑這整件事的合法性的機會。 誤導並不是喜劇所使用的唯一手段。語言的精簡度也是喜劇的一個手段。很難找到能比一個完美的妙語所包含的領域、意像還多的句子。Bill Hicks，如果你不知道他的作品，你真的很需要Google一下他，Hicks有個習慣就是喜歡用童年時在玩耍時的炫耀。最後另外一個小孩跟他說：「誒，我爸可以打贏你爸。」然後Hicks回道：「真的嗎？那多快可以？」（笑聲）那是把整個童年用三個字說完。（笑聲）更不用提這對說這話的大人還顯現了什麼。 最後一個喜劇很強的特性是喜劇有一種像病毒侵掠般的溝通方式。人們總是等不及要告訴別人一個好笑話。而這並不是新的現象。喜劇在國際間透過網路、社群、甚至有線電視，以非常快的速度傳開。在1980年的時候當喜劇演員Richard Pryor在一次演出時不小心著火了，我隔天在洛杉磯和兩天後在華盛頓DC都聽到一模一樣跟點燃黑人學會基金有關的妙語。很顯然的，這不是出於《Tonight Show》的獨白。而且我猜，我先說我沒有特別研究這個，我猜如果你真的仔細看、真的去研究的話，你會發現喜劇是第二古老的傳播專業。首先有擊鼓，然後有敲敲門笑話 (以雙關語作為笑點的英語笑話)。 （笑聲） 但是在你把這些元素放在一起—就是當你把好笑話的感染性加上從誠實、誠信的角度上發展出來的有力妙語，就可以在真實世界上達到話題性。我有個好朋友叫作Joel Pett，他是Lexington Herald-Leader的卡通編輯。他以前是「今日美國」的編輯。在2009年12月在Copenhagen氣候會議前，我去拜訪Joel。Joel跟我解釋「今日美國」是美國四大報之一，會議中幾乎每個人都會瞄過這份報紙，也就是說，如果他在禮拜一的報紙放卡通，也就是會議的第一天，這會在真正的決策者之間以最高的效率傳播。 所以我們開始談論氣候變遷。後來Joel跟我發現我們倆都為同樣的事情感到困擾，就是很多辯論都是在談論科學，談論科學有多完整或不完整。這對我們來說，不完全是重點所在。因為首先，有一個錯誤的假設就是說完全科學的東西是存在的。現在德州新通過的州長Perry在去年夏天正在他剛開始為他後來失敗的共和黨總統候選人提名時一開始也是在用這句話。其中他一再說明科學是不足夠的，同時德州254個縣當中有250個縣正在起火。而Perry的策略是要德州人民祈雨。私底下，我祈求再來四場大火，讓我們可以完成這整個科學。 （笑聲） 但在2009年時，我和Joel一直在思考的問題是為什麼在這樣的時期，有這麼多精力是花在討論科學而不是在制定針對氣候變遷所必須的條款，不論科學如何發展，這對人類長久以來才是有幫助的。所以我們一直討論直到Joel想出這個。卡通：「如果這一切只是個大騙局，而我們就只是沒原因的去創造一個更好的世界呢？」(笑聲）你一定會愛上這個想法。（掌聲）怎麼樣？我們不是特別為了什麼而製造一個更好的世界？不是為了上帝、不是為了國家、不是為了利潤，只是一個很簡單的全球的決定。 這卡通完全打中要點了。在會議結束沒多久，Joel接到華盛頓環保局局長的要求，希望能夠有一份附上簽名的這幅卡通掛在牆上。不久後，他又收到另一份請求，來自加州環保局局長，要用在她去年在Sacramento的國際環境變遷會議中的那幅卡通。而且不是在這裡就停住了。目前為止，Joel已經受邀至美國、加拿大、歐洲超過40個環保團體了。今年稍早，他收到在澳洲的綠色團體的請求，希望這個卡通能在他們的宣傳活動中使用。這個活動後來成為推始澳洲議會成立一套在世界上所有國家中最嚴格的碳稅制度。（掌聲）對14個字來說，這是有很多笑點的。 所以我對在座認真地想要創造一個更美好的世界的人的建議是每天花一些時間來想一些好笑的，因為你很有可能因此找到你的答案。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
