Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_kluwe_how_augmented_reality_will_change_sports_and_build_empathy	"What do augmented reality and professional football have to do with empathy? And what is the air speed velocity of an unladen swallow? Now unfortunately, I'm only going to answer one of those questions today, so please, try and contain your disappointment. When most people think about augmented reality, they think about ""Minority Report"" and Tom Cruise waving his hands in the air, but augmented reality is not science fiction. Augmented reality is something that will happen in our lifetime, and it will happen because we have the tools to make it happen, and people need to be aware of that, because augmented reality will change our lives just as much as the Internet and the cell phone. Now how do we get to augmented reality? Step one is the step I'm wearing right now, Google Glass. I'm sure many of you are familiar with Google Glass. What you may not be familiar with is that Google Glass is a device that will allow you to see what I see. It will allow you to experience what it is like to be a professional athlete on the field. Right now, the only way you can be on the field is for me to try and describe it to you. I have to use words. I have to create a framework that you then fill in with your imagination. With Google Glass, we can put that underneath a helmet, and we can get a sense of what it's like to be running down the field at 100 miles an hour, your blood pounding in your ears. You can get a sense of what it's like to have a 250-pound man sprinting at you trying to decapitate you with every ounce of his being. And I've been on the receiving end of that, and it doesn't feel very good. Now, I have some footage to show you of what it's like to wear Google Glass underneath the helmet to give you a taste of that. Unfortunately, it's not NFL practice footage because the NFL thinks emergent technology is what happens when a submarine surfaces, but — (Laughter) — we do what we can. So let's pull up some video. (Video) Chris Kluwe: Go. Ugh, getting tackled sucks. Hold on, let's get a little closer. All right, ready? Go! Chris Kluwe: So as you can see, small taste of what it's like to get tackled on the football field from the perspective of the tacklee. Now, you may have noticed there are some people missing there: the rest of the team. We have some video of that courtesy of the University of Washington. (Video) Quarterback: Hey, Mice 54! Mice 54! Blue 8! Blue 8! Go! Oh! CK: So again, this takes you a little bit closer to what it's like to be on that field, but this is nowhere what it's like to be on the NFL. Fans want that experience. Fans want to be on that field. They want to be their favorite players, and they've already talked to me on YouTube, they've talked to me on Twitter, saying, ""Hey, can you get this on a quarterback? Can you get this on a running back? We want that experience."" Well, once we have that experience with GoPro and Google Glass, how do we make it more immersive? How do we take that next step? Well, we take that step by going to something called the Oculus Rift, which I'm sure many of you are also familiar with. The Oculus Rift has been described as one of the most realistic virtual reality devices ever created, and that is not empty hype. I'm going to show you why that is not empty hype with this video. (Video) Man: Oh! Oh! No! No! No! I don't want to play anymore! No! Oh my God! Aaaah! CK: So that is the experience of a man on a roller coaster in fear of his life. What do you think that fan's experience is going to be when we take the video footage of an Adrian Peterson bursting through the line, shedding a tackler with a stiff-arm before sprinting in for a touchdown? What do you think that fan's experience is going to be when he's Messi sprinting down the pitch putting the ball in the back of the net, or Federer serving in Wimbledon? What do you think his experience is going to be when he is going down the side of a mountain at over 70 miles an hour as an Olympic downhill skier? I think adult diaper sales may surge. (Laughter) But this is not yet augmented reality. This is only virtual reality, V.R. How do we get to augmented reality, A.R.? We get to augmented reality when coaches and managers and owners look at this information streaming in that people want to see, and they say, ""How do we use this to make our teams better? How do we use this to win games?"" Because teams always use technology to win games. They like winning. It makes them money. So a brief history of technology in the NFL. In 1965, the Baltimore Colts put a wristband on their quarterback to allow him to call plays quicker. They ended up winning a Super Bowl that year. Other teams followed suit. More people watched the game because it was more exciting. It was faster. In 1994, the NFL put helmet radios into the helmets of the quarterbacks, and later the defense. More people watched games because it was faster. It was more entertaining. In 2023, imagine you're a player walking back to the huddle, and you have your next play displayed right in front of your face on your clear plastic visor that you already wear right now. No more having to worry about forgetting plays. No more worrying about having to memorize your playbook. You just go out and react. And coaches really want this, because missed assignments lose you games, and coaches hate losing games. Losing games gets you fired as a coach. They don't want that. But augmented reality is not just an enhanced playbook. Augmented reality is also a way to take all that data and use it in real time to enhance how you play the game. What would that be like? Well, a very simple setup would be a camera on each corner of the stadium looking down, giving you a bird's-eye view of all the people down there. You also have information from helmet sensors and accelerometers, technology that's being worked on right now. You take all that information, and you stream it to your players. The good teams stream it in a way that the players can use. The bad ones have information overload. That determines good teams from bad. And now, your I.T. department is just as important as your scouting department, and data-mining is not for nerds anymore. It's also for jocks. Who knew? What would that look like on the field? Well, imagine you're the quarterback. You take the snap and you drop back. You're scanning downfield for an open receiver. All of a sudden, a bright flash on the left side of your visor lets you know, blind side linebacker is blitzing in. Normally, you wouldn't be able to see him, but the augmented reality system lets you know. You step up into the pocket. Another flash alerts you to an open receiver. You throw the ball, but you're hit right as you throw. The ball comes off track. You don't know where it's going to land. However, on the receiver's visor, he sees a patch of grass light up, and he knows to readjust. He goes, catches the ball, sprints in, touchdown. Crowd goes wild, and the fans are with him every step of the way, watching from every perspective. Now this is something that will create massive excitement in the game. It will make tons of people watch, because people want this experience. Fans want to be on the field. They want to be their favorite player. Augmented reality will be a part of sports, because it's too profitable not to. But the question I ask you is, is that's all that we're content to use augmented reality for? Are we going to use it solely for our panem, our circenses, our entertainment as normal? Because I believe that we can use augmented reality for something more. I believe we can use augmented reality as a way to foster more empathy within the human species itself, by literally showing someone what it looks like to walk a mile in another person's shoes. We know what this technology is worth to sports leagues. It's worth revenue, to the tune of billions of dollars a year. But what is this technology worth to a teacher in a classroom trying to show a bully just how harmful his actions are from the perspective of the victim? What is this technology worth to a gay Ugandan or Russian trying to show the world what it's like living under persecution? What is this technology worth to a Commander Hadfield or a Neil deGrasse Tyson trying to inspire a generation of children to think more about space and science instead of quarterly reports and Kardashians? Ladies and gentlemen, augmented reality is coming. The questions we ask, the choices we make, and the challenges we face are, as always, up to us. Thank you. (Applause)"	擴增實景和職業足球和同理心有何關聯呢?自由飛行的燕子的空中飛行速度是多快呢? (出處來自蒙提·派森電影之一, 意指問題非常難以回答)很不幸，我只將回答其中一個問題所以請各位多包含，請別過於失望。 當人們想到擴增實境會聯想到湯姆克魯斯在《關鍵報告》的場景在電影中雙手操作螢幕介面的模樣。但是，擴增實境並不只是科幻小說，擴增實境將在日常生活中發生，未來我們即將體驗到它，因為我們有正確的工具，所以我們必須重視，因為擴增實境就像手機和網路一樣會徹底顛覆我們的生活方式。 所以，如何實際應用擴增實境？第一步，就是我現在正在戴的Google 眼鏡。我相信各位對Google眼鏡都不陌生。但你們也許不知道Google是一個分享視野的裝置,也就是讓你看見我所看的,它也可以讓你親自體驗職業運動員在球場上的過程。目前，若你想要體驗在球場上競技,我只能對你形容,我必須使用言語,我必須創造一個框架，並讓你自行填入在你的想像中。當有了Google 眼鏡,我們把它戴著，就可以辦得到，我們就可以親自體驗像是球場上時速百里的奔馳,脈搏聲直搗著耳膜的感覺,也可以親自體驗到250英磅的男人朝你衝撞,用他所有的力氣壓制在你身上,我曾經親自體驗過那並不是很好受。 我現在向各位呈現一段Google影片在足球場上的實際場景,讓各位體會一下。但是，這不是職業美式足球練習的實際狀況,因為國際足球協會畏懼新興科技就像是害怕潛水艇浮上表面要攻擊一樣。可是 (觀眾笑聲)，我們會盡力。 所以，讓我們來看以下影片。 克里斯．故路爾: 開始！(影片)喔！被擒倒的感覺真差！(影片)等一下，我們再接近一點(影片)準備好嗎？(影片)再一遍！ 克里斯．故路爾: 如你們所見稍微可以體會到被擒倒的感覺在足球場上,從進攻方的角度。你們是否都發現到影片中少了其他人：其他的隊員這邊提供另外一個影片是由華盛頓大學足球隊提供的 (影片) 四分衛：嘿！老鼠54！老鼠54！藍8！藍8！進攻！喔！ 克里斯．故路爾: 所以，以上讓各位更加真實的體驗足球場上的感覺,但是這對於在職業美式足球上的真實體驗還相差甚遠呢。 粉絲想要那種體驗粉絲想要親自臨陣成為他最喜歡的球員,他們已經在YouTube留言中,還有Twitter對我留言,「你能不能把這個裝在四分衛的身上？」「或是裝在跑鋒身上？」我們想要那種體驗。 當我們有GoPro和Google Glass我們怎麼增加它的臨場感？我們該如何向前發展？我們的下一步是應用叫做Oculus Rift的虛擬實景眼鏡我想各位應該都不陌生。Oculus Rift是被稱為最真實的虛擬實景裝置。這不是假的宣傳,我會用而以下的影片將會證明這不是假的宣傳。(影片) 喔！喔！(影片 )不！我不想再玩下去了！(影片) 我的天啊！ 克里斯．故路爾: 這是一種正在乘坐雲霄飛車的體驗,嚇得要命的體驗,各位認為那位男士的體驗將會是如何,當我們把裡面的影片換成Adrian Peterson 在球場上突破重圍並用手臂阻擋防守員最後衝刺達陣呢？各位覺得那種體驗會是如何,當Lionel Messi在球場上衝刺射門得分的一瞬間,或是Roger Federer在Wimbledon球場上的正手發球,各位覺得那種體驗會是如何?當從山坡上用70里的速度滑下在奧運會的滑雪場上。我覺得成人紙尿布會大賣。(觀眾笑聲) 但這還不是擴增實境,這只是虛擬實境而已。我們該如何達到擴增實境的地步？擴增實境在球場上的實境應用當球員、教練，以及經理人看著這些觀眾渴望體驗的擴增實境資訊,然後問：我們該怎麼做來增強隊伍實力？我們該怎麼用來贏球？因為隊伍利用科技來贏球。他們當然喜歡贏球，可以賺更多錢。 我們來過目職業足球的科技應用簡史。1965年，巴爾的摩足球隊在四分衛的護腕上寫小抄以使他更快喊出進攻方式,他們那年贏了超級盃,其他隊伍並開始效仿,更多觀眾看比賽, 因為它變得更精彩,比賽節奏更迅速。 1994年，美式足球聯盟把無線電再四分衛的頭盔裡面,防守時也同樣使用,導致更多觀眾收看比賽，比賽更加刺激,更具娛樂性。 在2023年，想像每個球員在討論戰術時下一個進攻方式顯示在你面前的面板上面在你正在戴的頭盔上,不用擔心下一個進攻戰術是什麼,不用再背每個戰術,你只需要上場並直接反應。每個教練都想要這樣,因為錯誤的指導會輸球,而教練討厭輸球,輸球會被炒魷魚。他們不喜歡那樣。 但是，擴增實境並不是只有應用在足球的戰術上,擴增實境可以把所有的數據資料即時應用在現實上,以增強打球的技術,那會是甚麼樣子呢？一開始需要架設攝影機在球場上的四個角落俯瞰著整個球場和所有的球員,還有頭盔上的感應器和速度表,相關的科技正在研發當中,你把所有的數據傳輸給球員,好的隊伍可以善加利用這些數據,不好的隊伍則會被數據給掩沒,隊伍的勝敗就由此可見。現今，資訊和數據的應用和球探一樣重要,數據探勘不再是阿宅的工作,它也是運動員值得注意的，誰知道？ 在球場上會是什麼樣子呢？想像你是四分衛準備發球給隊友,你從顯示器上找到有空檔的跑衛,就在一霎那之間顯示器的左邊線衛從視野死角突刺而來,通常說，你無法直接看見他,但是擴增實境有辦法事先發現,你退到後場,顯示器表示出另外一個空檔球員,你把球傳出去，同時正好被擊倒,球傳偏了,你不知道球降落在哪邊,另一面在接球員的顯示器上他看見一塊草地發亮,他知道在哪裡接到球他跑過去，接到球向前衝刺，最後順利達陣。觀眾為之瘋狂，粉絲們沒有錯過其中每一個環節,從每一個視角中觀看 這即將在球賽之中,創造出更多刺激和精彩度,吸引更多的觀眾。因為觀眾喜歡這種體驗,粉絲們想要親臨球場成為他們最喜歡的球員,擴增實境肯定會成為運動賽事的一部份,因為它會帶來太多利潤。 但是，我向各位提問這是擴增實境唯一的應用方式嗎？我們只能用在欣賞、娛樂和觀看表演上面嗎？因為我相信我們能把擴增實境用在更多的地方。我相信擴增實境可以促始在人與人之間,有更多的同理心,只需要給人看在其他人的觀察角度中將會是甚麼樣子。我們知道科技在運動賽事上是有價值的,它可以帶來數千萬的收入,但是這個科技值多少錢當教師在教室裡面,如何告訴霸凌同學,用收害者的角度去看,用以告誡他們其嚴重性？這個科技值多少錢用來向世界展示在烏干達或俄國的同性戀者如何在迫害之中生活？這科技將會多有價值?當太空人和天文學家試圖讓下一代的孩子們,讓自然科學和外太空更感興趣,而不是對財務報表和影視名媛感興趣, 觀眾朋友們, 擴增實境的時代來了,而我們的問題、選擇和面臨的挑戰,如同以往，取決在我們身上。 謝謝。 (觀眾掌聲)
