Talk	en	zh-tw
christopher_emdin_teach_teachers_how_to_create_magic	"Right now there is an aspiring teacher who is working on a 60-page paper based on some age-old education theory developed by some dead education professor wondering to herself what this task that she's engaging in has to do with what she wants to do with her life, which is be an educator, change lives, and spark magic. Right now there is an aspiring teacher in a graduate school of education who is watching a professor babble on and on about engagement in the most disengaging way possible. Right now there's a first-year teacher at home who is pouring through lesson plans trying to make sense of standards, who is trying to make sense of how to grade students appropriately, while at the same time saying to herself over and over again, ""Don't smile till November,"" because that's what she was taught in her teacher education program. Right now there's a student who is coming up with a way to convince his mom or dad that he's very, very sick and can't make it to school tomorrow. On the other hand, right now there are amazing educators that are sharing information, information that is shared in such a beautiful way that the students are sitting at the edge of their seats just waiting for a bead of sweat to drop off the face of this person so they can soak up all that knowledge. Right now there is also a person who has an entire audience rapt with attention, a person that is weaving a powerful narrative about a world that the people who are listening have never imagined or seen before, but if they close their eyes tightly enough, they can envision that world because the storytelling is so compelling. Right now there's a person who can tell an audience to put their hands up in the air and they will stay there till he says, ""Put them down."" Right now. So people will then say, ""Well, Chris, you describe the guy who is going through some awful training but you're also describing these powerful educators. If you're thinking about the world of education or urban education in particular, these guys will probably cancel each other out, and then we'll be okay."" The reality is, the folks I described as the master teachers, the master narrative builders, the master storytellers are far removed from classrooms. The folks who know the skills about how to teach and engage an audience don't even know what teacher certification means. They may not even have the degrees to be able to have anything to call an education. And that to me is sad. It's sad because the people who I described, they were very disinterested in the learning process, want to be effective teachers, but they have no models. I'm going to paraphrase Mark Twain. Mark Twain says that proper preparation, or teaching, is so powerful that it can turn bad morals to good, it can turn awful practices into powerful ones, it can change men and transform them into angels. The folks who I described earlier got proper preparation in teaching, not in any college or university, but by virtue of just being in the same spaces of those who engage. Guess where those places are? Barber shops, rap concerts, and most importantly, in the black church. And I've been framing this idea called Pentecostal pedagogy. Who here has been to a black church? We got a couple of hands. You go to a black church, their preacher starts off and he realizes that he has to engage the audience, so he starts off with this sort of wordplay in the beginning oftentimes, and then he takes a pause, and he says, ""Oh my gosh, they're not quite paying attention."" So he says, ""Can I get an amen?"" Audience: Amen. Chris Emdin: So I can I get an amen? Audience: Amen. CE: And all of a sudden, everybody's reawoken. That preacher bangs on the pulpit for attention. He drops his voice at a very, very low volume when he wants people to key into him, and those things are the skills that we need for the most engaging teachers. So why does teacher education only give you theory and theory and tell you about standards and tell you about all of these things that have nothing to do with the basic skills, that magic that you need to engage an audience, to engage a student? So I make the argument that we reframe teacher education, that we could focus on content, and that's fine, and we could focus on theories, and that's fine, but content and theories with the absence of the magic of teaching and learning means nothing. Now people oftentimes say, ""Well, magic is just magic."" There are teachers who, despite all their challenges, who have those skills, get into those schools and are  able to engage an audience, and the administrator walks by and says, ""Wow, he's so good, I wish all my teachers could be that good."" And when they try to describe what that is, they just say, ""He has that magic."" But I'm here to tell you that magic can be taught. Magic can be taught. Magic can be taught. Now, how do you teach it? You teach it by allowing people to go into those spaces where the magic is happening. If you want to be an aspiring teacher in urban education, you've got to leave the confines of that university and go into the hood. You've got to go in there and hang out at the barbershop, you've got to attend that black church, and you've got to view those folks that have the power to engage and just take notes on what they do. At our teacher education classes at my university, I've started a project where every single student that comes in there sits and watches rap concerts. They watch the way that the rappers move and talk with their hands. They study the way that he walks proudly across that stage. They listen to his metaphors and analogies, and they start learning these little things that if they practice enough becomes the key to magic. They learn that if you just stare at a student and raise your eyebrow about a quarter of an inch, you don't have to say a word because they know that that means that you want more. And if we could transform teacher education to focus on teaching teachers how to create that magic then poof! we could make dead classes come alive, we could reignite imaginations, and we can change education. Thank you. (Applause)"	現在有一位有追求的教師正在寫一篇60頁的文章基於一些古老的教育理論它們都是由一些早已逝去的教育學教授所開發這位老師問她自己她正從事的這項任務和她的終身職志有什麼關聯她想做一個教育工作者改變學生的人生，創造奇跡現在有一位有抱負的老師正在成為教育學碩士的路上他看著教授不停的講如何投入以一種事不關己的態度。現在有一個第一年做老師的人在家中大量地瀏覽課程計劃想讓標準更明了努力的想要弄清楚如何給學生正確評分，同時她又在一遍又一遍的對自己說“十一月之前不要微笑。”因為在她的教育課程中她就是這樣被教育的現在有一個學生想出了一個辦法讓他的父母相信他病的非常，非常嚴重並且明天不能去上學。另一方面，現在有許多傑出的教育者正在分享知識，以一種引人入勝的方式讓學生們聚精會神地坐在椅子上只是爲了等待一滴甘甜的露珠從老師的臉上掉下來并努力去汲取全部的知識現在同樣有一個人他能使所有的觀眾全神貫注在他身上他正在編織一個強有力的敘述關於一個在座的人中從來都沒有聽說或想像過的世界但是如果他們的眼睛閉的夠緊他們可以看到這個世界因為講故事的人是如此引人入勝現在有一個人可以告訴他的觀眾高舉他們的雙手並不放下，直到他說“放下來吧。“就是現在 所以有人會說，“好，Chris，你描述了一個經歷了糟糕的訓練的人但是你同樣描述了這些有影響力的教育家。如果你想想像世界上所有的教育者特別是做城市教育的，這些人可能會相互抵消，這樣應該就扯平了。“ 現實就是，我所描述的這些人作為大師級的老師，敘事的大師，講故事的大師根本不在所謂的教室。那些知道教學技巧的人如何吸引觀眾的人甚至連什麼是教師資格證都不知道他們可能都沒有學位沒有任何東西可以讓他的行為被稱為是教育。這一點對我來說是可悲的之所以可悲，是因為我所描述的這些人，他們對學習的過程不感興趣，他們想成為好老師，但是沒有方法。我想引用一句馬克吐溫的話他說：“恰當的準備，或者教學，強烈到可以讓道德從壞到好，讓沒用的方式變得有用，可以改變人并把他們轉化成天使。” 前面我描述的那些人做了充分的教學準備，不是在學院或者大學，而是在一個大家都聚精會神的空間猜猜這樣的地方在哪裡？理髮店，說唱音樂會，並且最重要的是，在黑人教會里，我把這些思想稱為五旬節教育學。現場的觀眾誰去過黑人聚教會？有一些人舉起了手。當你走進黑人教會，牧師開始講道他意識到他必須讓觀眾投入，因此他經常文字遊戲做為開頭然後他稍微停頓一下，他說，”天啊。他們沒有全神貫注。“所以他說，”我們一起說阿們？“ 觀眾：阿門。 Chris：一起說阿們？ 觀眾：阿們 Chris： 突然間，大家被喚醒了。牧師敲打講台吸引大家的注意。他把自己說話聲音降得很低很低當他希望人們用心聽道的時候，這些技巧正是那些想吸引學生的導師所需要的。那麼為何老師的培養只是教你理論和理論要你背誦教師標準等這類對於學習基礎的技巧、吸引觀眾、學生的魔法一點用處都沒有的東西於是我提出重塑教師教育的想法，我們可以注重內容，當然，而且我們可以重視理論，沒錯，但是內容和理論若沒有有效的呈現方法這種教學就失靈了。 你可能會說“魔法只是魔法而已。”有一些教師，面對所有挑戰，擁有這些技巧，進了學校後，讓他的聽眾全神貫注教學行政官員經過說，“哇，我希望所有老師都像他這麼棒。”當他們描述他的時候，他們只是說，”他就是有那種魔力。“ 但是我在這裡要說的是魔力是可以被教會的。魔力是可以被教會的。魔力是可以被教會的。但，該怎麼做？你要讓人們走進那些魔法發生的空間裡去現場親身感受魔力。如果你想成為一名優秀的城市教育者，你必須擺脫學校的束縛親自到社區裡。你必須去理髮店混一混，你必須去黑人教會體驗體驗，你一定要親眼目睹這些人的吸引力并記住他們做了什麽我在我大學教育專業課裡舉辦一個活動讓每個學生都來聽嘻哈音樂會。觀察歌手用身體和手勢來加強表達能力的方式。他們學習歌手驕傲的走過舞台。他們聽他的譬喻和比喻，他們開始學習這些細小的東西經過勤奮的練習這就會成為魔力。他們知道如果你只是盯著一個學生微微挑起眉毛你不用說任何話因為學生懂得裡面的深層含義。同樣，如果我們可以轉型教師培訓把教育重心轉移到教育導師們如何創造魔力我們可以讓原本死氣沉沉的課堂充滿活力，我們可以重新點燃想像力的火焰，我們可以改變教育。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
