Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_milk_the_birth_of_virtual_reality_as_an_art_form	"When I was a kid, I experienced something so powerful, I spent the rest of my life searching for it, and in all the wrong places. What I experienced wasn't virtual reality. It was music. And this is where the story begins. That's me, listening to the Beatles' ""White Album."" And the look on my face is the feeling that I've been searching for ever since. Music goes straight to the emotional vein, into your bloodstream and right into your heart. It deepens every experience. Fellas? (Music) This is the amazing McKenzie Stubbert and Joshua Roman. Music — (Applause) Yeah. Music makes everything have more emotional resonance. Let's see how it does for this talk. The right piece of music at the right time fuses with us on a cellular level. When I hear that one song from that one summer with that one girl, I'm instantly transported back there again. Hey, Stacey. Here's a part of the story, though, where I got a little greedy. I thought if I added more layers on top of the music, I could make the feelings even more powerful. So I got into directing music videos. This is what they looked like. That's my brother, Jeff. Sorry about this, Jeff. (Laughter) Here's me, just so we're even. Incredible moves. Should've been a dancer. (Laughter) These experiments grew, and in time, started to look more like this. In both, I'm searching for the same thing, though, to capture that lightning in a bottle. Except, I'm not. Adding moving pictures over the music added narrative dimension, yes, but never quite equated the power that just raw music had for me on its own. This is not a great thing to realize when you've devoted your life and professional career to becoming a music video director. I kept asking myself, did I take the wrong path? So I started thinking: if I could involve you, the audience, more, I might be able to make you feel something more as well. So Aaron Koblin and I began auditioning new technologies that could put more of you inside of the work, like your childhood home in ""The Wilderness Downtown,"" your hand-drawn portraits, in ""The Johnny Cash Project,"" and your interactive dreams in ""3 Dreams of Black."" We were pushing beyond the screen, trying to connect more deeply to people's hearts and imaginations. But it wasn't quite enough. It still didn't have the raw experiential power of pure music for me. So I started chasing a new technology that I only had read about in science fiction. And after years of searching, I found a prototype. It was a project from Nonny de la Peña in Mark Bolas's lab in USC. And when I tried it, I knew I'd found it. I could taste the lightning. It was called virtual reality. This was it five years ago when I ran into it. This is what it looks like now. I quickly started building things in this new medium, and through that process we realized something: that VR is going to play an incredibly important role in the history of mediums. In fact, it's going to be the last one. I mean this because it's the first medium that actually makes the jump from our internalization of an author's expression of an experience, to our experiencing it firsthand. You look confused. I'll explain. Don't worry. (Laughter) If we go back to the origins of mediums, by all best guesses, it starts around a fire, with a good story. Our clan leader is telling us about how he hunted the woolly mammoth on the tundra that day. We hear his words and translate them into our own internal truths. The same thing happens when we look at the cave painting version of the story, the book about the mammoth hunt, the play, the radio broadcast, the television show or the movie. All of these mediums require what we call ""suspension of disbelief,"" because there's a translation gap between the reality of the story and our consciousness interpreting the story into our reality. I'm using the word ""consciousness"" as a feeling of reality that we get from our senses experiencing the world around us. Virtual reality bridges that gap. Now, you are on the tundra hunting with the clan leader. Or you are the clan leader. Or maybe you're even the woolly mammoth. (Laughter) So here's what special about VR. In all other mediums, your consciousness interprets the medium. In VR, your consciousness is the medium. So the potential for VR is enormous. But where are we now? What is the current state of the art? Well, we are here. We are the equivalent of year one of cinema. This is the Lumière Brothers film that allegedly sent a theater full of people running for their lives as they thought a train was coming toward them. Similar to this early stage of this medium, in VR, we also have to move past the spectacle and into the storytelling. It took this medium decades to figure out its preferred language of storytelling, in the form of a feature film. In VR today, we're more learning grammar than writing language. We've made 15 films in the last year at our VR company, Vrse, and we've learned a few things. We found that we have a unique, direct path into your senses, your emotions, even your body. So let me show you some things. For the purpose of this demo, we're going to take every direction that you could possibly look, and stretch it into this giant rectangle. OK, here we go. So, first: camera movement is tricky in VR. Done wrong, it can actually make you sick. We found if you move the camera at a constant speed in a straight line, you can actually get away with it, though. The first day in film school, they told me you have to learn every single rule before you can break one. We have not learned every single rule. We've barely learned any at all, but we're already trying to break them to see what kind of creative things we can accomplish. In this shot here, where we're moving up off the ground, I added acceleration. I did that because I wanted to give you a physical sensation of moving up off the ground. In VR, I can give that to you. (Music) Not surprisingly, music matters a lot in this medium as well. It guides us how to feel. In this project we made with the New York Times, Zach Richter and our friend, JR, we take you up in a helicopter, and even though you're flying 2,000 feet above Manhattan, you don't feel afraid. You feel triumphant for JR's character. The music guides you there. (Music) Contrary to popular belief, there is composition in virtual reality, but it's completely different than in film, where you have a rectangular frame. Composition is now where your consciousness exists and how the world moves around you. In this film, ""Waves of Grace,"" which was a collaboration between Vrse, the United Nations, Gabo Arora, and Imraan Ismail, we also see the changing role of the close-up in virtual reality. A close-up in VR means you're actually close up to someone. It brings that character inside of your personal space, a space that we'd usually reserve for the people that we love. And you feel an emotional closeness to the character because of what you feel to be a physical closeness. Directing VR is not like directing for the rectangle. It's more of a choreography of the viewer's attention. One tool we can use to guide your attention is called ""spatialized sound."" I can put a sound anywhere in front of you, to left or right, even behind you, and when you turn your head, the sound will rotate accordingly. So I can use that to direct your attention to where I want you to see. Next time you hear someone singing over your shoulder, it might be Bono. (Laughter) VR makes us feel like we are part of something. For most of human history, we lived in small family units. We started in caves, then moved to clans and tribes, then villages and towns, and now we're all global citizens. But I believe that we are still hardwired to care the most about the things that are local to us. And VR makes anywhere and anyone feel local. That's why it works as an empathy machine. Our film ""Clouds Over Sidra"" takes you to a Syrian refugee camp, and instead of watching a story about people over there, it's now a story about us here. But where do we go from here? The tricky thing is that with all previous mediums, the format is fixed at its birth. Film has been a sequence of rectangles, from Muybridge and his horses to now. The format has never changed. But VR as a format, as a medium, isn't complete yet. It's not using physical celluloid or paper or TV signals. It actually employs what we use to make sense of the world. We're using your senses as the paints on the canvas, but only two right now. Eventually, we can see if we will have all of our human senses employed, and we will have agency to live the story in any path we choose. And we call it virtual reality right now, but what happens when we move past simulated realities? What do we call it then? What if instead of verbally telling you about a dream, I could let you live inside that dream? What if instead of just experiencing visiting some reality on Earth, you could surf gravitational waves on the edge of a black hole, or create galaxies from scratch, or communicate with each other not using words but using our raw thoughts? That's not a virtual reality anymore. And honestly I don't know what that's called. But I hope you see where we're going. But here I am, intellectualizing a medium I'm saying is experiential. So let's experience it. In your hands, you hopefully hold a piece of cardboard. Let's open the flap. Tap on the power button to unlock the phone. For the people watching at home, we're going to put up a card right now to show you how to download this experience on your phone yourself, and even get a Google cardboard of your own to try it with. We played in cardboard boxes as kids, and as adults, I'm hoping we can all find a little bit of that lightning by sticking our head in one again. You're about to participate in the largest collective VR viewing in history. And in that classic old-timey style of yesteryear, we're all going to watch something at the exact same time, together. Let's hope it works. What's the countdown look like? I can't see. Audience: ...15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 (Birds singing) (Train engine) Audience: (Shreiks) (Video) JR: Let me tell you how I shot the cover of the New York Times Magazine, ""Walking New York."" I just got strapped on outside the helicopter, and I had to be perfectly vertical so I could grab it. And when I was perfectly above — you know, with the wind, we had to redo it a few times — then I kept shooting. (Video) Woman's voice: Dear Lord, protect us from evil, for you are the Lord, the light. You who gave us life took it away. Let your will be done. Please bring peace to the many who have lost loved ones. Help us to live again. (Music) (Video) (Children's voices) Child's voice: There are more kids in Zaatari than adults right now. Sometimes I think we are the ones in charge. Chris Milk: How was it? (Applause) That was a cheap way of getting you to do a standing ovation. I just made you all stand. I knew you'd applaud at the end. (Applause) I believe that everyone on Earth needs to experience what you just experienced. That way we can collectively start to shape this, not as a tech platform but as a humanity platform. And to that end, in November of last year, the New York Times and Vrse made a VR project called ""The Displaced."" It launched with one million Google Cardboards sent out to every Sunday subscriber with their newspaper. But a funny thing happened that Sunday morning. A lot of people got them that were not the intended recipients on the mailing label. And we started seeing this all over Instagram. Look familiar? Music led me on a path of searching for what seemed like the unattainable for a very long time. Now, millions of kids just had the same formative experience in their childhood that I had in mine. Only I think this one surpasses it. Let's see where this leads them. Thank you. (Applause)"	我小時候經歷了一件很棒的事我在接下來的人生中一直在尋找它卻總在錯誤的地方尋找我經歷的不是虛擬實境而是音樂故事是這樣開始的 這是我正在聽披頭四的 白色專輯而我臉上的表情就是我一直以來在尋找的感動音樂觸動了我們情感的靜脈流進到你的血液裡直達你的內心每次的感動都會深烙在你心中哥兒們？ （音樂） 這兩位是我們最厲害的麥肯錫史塔伯特和約書亞羅曼（音樂） （掌聲） 是的 音樂讓每樣東西有了更多情感上的共鳴讓我們來看看音樂在這次演講中如何呈現當我們在對的時間裡聽到一段對的音樂音樂彷彿會融入到我們的細胞中當我聽著那首歌在那個夏天與那個女孩我彷彿又回到了過去嗨 史黛西 接下來是故事的一部分雖然 我有點貪心我在想 如果我可以讓音樂有更多的層次我可以讓那份感動更加的強烈所以我開始投入音樂影片的製作這是當時它們長的樣子那是我哥 傑夫不好意思 傑夫 （笑聲） 這是我 所以我們扯平了跳的真好我應該去當一位舞蹈家 （笑聲） 這些實驗 與時漸進最後 成為這樣雖然 我仍在尋找那份感動渴望能把那份感動的曙光裝到瓶子裡但 我還是辦不到在音樂上增加一些動畫雖然可以增加它的故事性卻永遠不能等同純音樂本身所帶來的力量意識到這種感受並不是件很棒的事情尤其當你已經全心地把你的生活和職業生涯投入其中成為一名 MV 總監時我不斷地問自己我是不是搞錯方向了？所以我開始想 如果我可以讓身為觀眾的你們更加地融入到音樂中也許就可以讓你們感受到更多 所以 艾朗柯柏霖和我開始嘗試新的技術讓聽眾可以更加地投入到作品中就像各位童年時期在 荒野城鎮 故事裡的家就像你在 強尼現金專案 中的手繪畫像就像你在 三個黑色夢想 中所互動出來的夢想我們嘗試著突破螢幕嘗試地更加深人們的內心與想象的連結但還是不夠它還是沒有那種純音樂帶給我的原始體驗的震撼 所以我開始尋找一種新的技術一種我在科幻小說中曾經讀到過的科技在多年的探尋之後我找到了一個雛形它是南加州大學馬克波蘿斯實驗室羅尼德拉佩納的一個專案當我嘗試到它的時候我知道我找到了我像是被電到一樣它叫做虛擬實境這是我五年前遇見它時的樣子它現在是這個樣子 我迅速地開始在這個新媒介裡建構事物在過程中 我們意識到了一些東西虛擬實境將會在媒介的歷史中扮演著不可思議的角色事實上 它將會是最後一種媒介我會這樣說的原因是因為這是第一個可以讓我們從作者第一手身歷其境的表述直接跳到我們主觀性經歷的媒介你看起來很迷惑我待會解釋 別擔心 （笑聲） 如果我們回想傳播媒介的起源大家可能猜的到那就像我們圍繞在營火邊聽故事一樣我們部落的首領正在向我們描述那一天他是如何在寒漠上捕獵到毛茸茸的猛瑪象的故事我們聽著他的英勇事蹟然後把他的話轉譯成我們所理解的事實同樣的體驗也會發生在我們看著刻畫在洞穴裡的故事一樣有關捕獵猛瑪象的書籍戲劇廣播電視劇或電影這些媒介都需要我們暫時放下懷疑因為 故事 裡的真實性與我們 意識 裡所理解到的真實性有著相當的落差我是用 意識 這個詞來表示我們從周圍世界對實境體驗到的感受 虛擬實境填補了那個落差現在 你就在寒漠上與部落首領打獵或者 你就是部落首領甚至 你可能就是那隻毛絨絨的猛瑪象 （笑聲） 所以這就是虛擬實境特別的地方在其它媒介中你的意識會轉譯這些媒介在虛擬實境 你的意識就是媒介所以虛擬實境的潛力是很大的但 我們到甚麼程度了？這項藝術的當前狀況是怎樣呢？好的我們到這兒了我們相當於在電影剛誕生的第一年這是盧米埃爾兄弟的電影據說這部電影讓一整間電影院的人都逃命去了因為他們以為火車朝著他們開了過來和電影早期的發展階段相似在虛擬實境中我們也必須越過場景進入到故事的情境中它花費了電影幾十年的時間才搞懂原來說故事最好的語言媒介就是虛擬實境目前在虛擬實境領域我們更多的是在學習文法而不是寫故事 我們的虛擬實境公司 Vrse在去年拍了 15 部電影我們從中學到了一些東西我們發現我們有一種獨特的方式可以觸動到你的感官你的情緒 甚至身體 所以讓我向各位展示一些東西這次展示的目的我們準備把各位可能看到的每個方向都延伸進這個大螢幕框框內好的 我們開始吧！ 首先 在虛擬實境裡鏡頭的移動相當困難弄得不好 會讓你不舒服我們發現如果你以一種穩定的速度在一條直線上移動鏡頭你就不會覺得不舒服在電影學院的第一天他們告訴我 在你打破規則前你要先學會每一條規則我們還沒有學會每一條規則我們幾乎還沒學會什麽但是我們已經開始嘗試打破規則去看看我們可以實現什麽樣創造性的新事物在這一次拍攝裏我們從地面上升起的時候 我加快了速度我這麽做是因為我想要給各位一種從地面升起的實體感受在虛擬實境中我可以給各位這種感受 （音樂） 不意外地 音樂在這當中扮演了很重要的角色它引導我們如何去感受在這個和紐約時報合作的專案中我和我們的朋友 JR帶各位坐上直升機即使你翱翔在曼哈頓上空 2000 英呎的地方你也不會感到害怕你感受到的是 JR 心中的興奮音樂會引導你到那個地方 （音樂） 與大家想的不太一樣虛擬實境也會產生創作的感覺但是這個和你螢幕上方框中的影片感覺完全不一樣那創作的感覺 與你現在的意識和你身邊所處的世界而會有所不同這部影片 恩澤之音 是由 VrseUnited Nations，Gabo Arora和 Imraan Ismail 合作出品我們了解到虛擬實境中近距離拍攝的角色置換技巧在虛擬實境中的近距離鏡頭會讓你有很靠近某人的感覺它會把故事裡的主角帶到你身邊的空間一個你總是會預留給愛人的空間你會近距離地感受到主角的情緒因為你會感覺主角就在你身邊 虛擬實境的運鏡方式和一般鏡頭的移動方式不同它比較像是觀眾注意力的舞蹈編排有一個工具可以導引你的注意力叫做 空間化音效我可以把聲音放在任何地方放在你前面 左 右邊甚至是後面而且當你轉頭的時候聲音也會跟著轉所以我可以用音樂導引你的注意力到我想讓你看的地方下在你可能會感受到有人在你肩膀後面唱歌他可能就是波諾 （笑聲） 虛擬實境讓我們感覺自己就像影片中的一部分在大部分的人類歷史中我們都生活在小家庭單位裡我們從山洞開始然後搬到家族和部落然後村莊和城鎮而現在 我們都是世界公民但我相信 我們最關心的仍然是那些我們身旁的事情虛擬實境讓每個地方和每個人變的靠近這也是為什麼它像是一部有感情的機器我們的電影 敘利亞的天空會帶你到敘利亞的一個難民營不是帶各位去看一個人的故事而是帶你去感受我們內心的世界 但我們到甚麼程度了棘手的事是 所有之前的媒介它們呈現的形式在它們製造出來時就固定了從邁布里奇和他的馬到現在影片一直都是一系列的矩形這種呈現的方式從來沒有改變但虛擬實境作為一種格式 一種媒介雖然還不夠完整但它不是用電影膠片或是紙張或者電視信號它實際上是利用我們的感官去感受這個世界我們是用你的感官作為帆布上的油漆但是目前只有兩個（視覺及聽覺）最終，我們可以看看是否能利用上我們人類身上所有的感官當作媒介去體驗任何一個我們想經歷的故事我現在可以稱它做虛擬實境但當我們超越虛擬現實的時候我們會叫它甚麼？如果不是靠口說告訴你一個夢想而是讓你住進到這個夢裡呢？如果不是讓你只是體驗參觀一下地球的一些實境而是帶你到黑洞邊緣的重力波上衝浪或者描繪宇宙的緣起或者不是用文字彼此溝通而是用我們最初衷的想法溝通呢？這將不僅僅是虛擬實境而已坦白說，我也不知道那叫甚麼但我希望各位可以看看我們到哪個程度了 但我今天來到這邊 是想讓各位體驗一下我剛剛提的智能媒介所以 我們開始體驗吧！在各位手上 應該都有一片紙板請各位把它打開按下開關按鈕 解鎖手機對於家裡觀看的民眾我們現在在螢幕上會顯示告訴你如何從手機上下載這次的體驗甚至可以買到 Google 的紙板眼鏡我們小時候，在紙箱裡玩現在長大了 我希望我們都能找回兒時的純真把我們的頭 再次鑽到紙箱內各位將參與到史上最大型的集體觀賞虛擬實境秀並且在經典的懷舊風格中我們將同一時刻 一起觀賞希望可以成功倒數計時器長怎麼樣？我看不到 觀眾：...15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9,8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 （鳥鳴） （火車引擎聲） 觀眾：（尖叫） （影片） JR：讓我告訴各位我是怎麽拍攝紐約時報的封面<>我當時被綁在直升機的外側因為我需要最佳的垂直拍攝角度當我準備要拍攝的時候你知道 有時候會有風我們就需要重拍一直拍 （影片）女人的聲音：親愛的上帝請保佑我們遠離災難因為你是我們的上帝我們的陽光你賦予我們生命卻又把它帶走願你的旨意成就請將和平帶給那些失去愛人的人協助我們重生 （音樂） （影片）（小孩聲音） 小孩聲音：現在在扎塔里大人比小孩子多有時候我在想我們就是扛起責任的那個人 克里斯．邁克：感受如何？ （掌聲） 這是一個便宜又可以讓各位站起來喝彩的方法剛剛我讓各位都站起來了而且我知道你們一定會在結束的時候鼓掌 （掌聲） 我相信地球上每一個人都需要去體驗各位剛剛所體驗到的這樣我們就可以一起開始雕塑虛擬實境讓它不再只是個技術平台而是一個人性的平台在結束前 去年 11 月份紐約時報和 Vrse 公司合作了一項專案 叫做<>他們發送了一百萬個 Google 硬紙板給每一個周日有訂閱報紙的讀者但那一個禮拜天的早上發生了一件有趣的事有很多人拿到它他們很多人並不是郵件地址上的收件人然後我們開始在 Instagram 大量的看到這些看起來很眼熟吧？ 音樂帶領我走上了這條路我花了很長的時間在尋找那當初找不到的感動現在，有幾百萬個小朋友在他們童年的時候也能同樣體驗到我內心的感動這是唯一一個我認為超越過去媒介的科技讓我們拭目以待這個將會帶領他們去向何處 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
