Talk	en	zh-tw
cristina_domenech_poetry_that_frees_the_soul	"It's said that to be a poet you have to go to hell and back. The first time I visited the prison, I was not surprised by the noise of the padlocks, or the closing doors, or the cell bars, or by any of the things I had imagined. Maybe because the prison is in a quite open space. You can see the sky. Seagulls fly overhead, and you feel like you're next to the sea, that you're really close to the beach. But in fact, the gulls are looking for food in the dump near the prison. I went farther inside and I suddenly saw inmates moving across the corridors. Then it was as if I stepped back and thought that I could have very well been one of them. If I had another story, another context, different luck. Because nobody - nobody - can choose where they're born. In 2009, I was invited to join a project that San Martín National University conducted at the Unit 48 penitentiary, to coordinate a writing workshop. The prison service ceded some land at the end of the prison, which is where they constructed the University Center building. The first time I met with the prisoners, I asked them why they were asking for a writing workshop and they told me they wanted  to put on paper all that they couldn't say and do. Right then I decided that I wanted poetry to enter the prison. So I said to them why don't we work with poetry, if they knew what poetry was. But nobody had a clue what poetry really was. They also suggested to me that the workshop should be not just for the inmates taking university classes,  but for all the inmates. And so I said that to start this workshop, I needed to find a tool that we all had in common. That tool was language. We had language, we had the workshop. We could have poetry. But what I hadn't considered was that inequality exists in prison, too. Many of the prisoners hadn't even completed grammar school. Many couldn't use cursive, could barely print. They didn't write fluently, either. So we started looking for short poems. Very short, but very powerful. And we started to read, and we'd read one author, then another author, and by reading such short poems, they all began to realize that what the poetic language did was to break a certain logic, and create another system. Breaking the logic of language also breaks the logic of the system under which they've learned to respond. So a new system appeared, new rules that made them understand very quickly, - very quickly - that with poetic language they would be able to say absolutely whatever they wanted. It's said that to be a poet you have to go to hell and back. And they have plenty of hell. Plenty of hell. One of them once said: ""In prison you never sleep. You can never sleep in jail. You can never close your eyelids."" And so, like I’m doing now, I gave them a moment of silence, then said, “That's what poetry is, you guys. It's in this prison universe that you have all around you. Everything you say about how you never sleep, it exudes fear. All the things that go unwritten — all of that is poetry."" So we started appropriating that hell; we plunged ourselves, headfirst, into the seventh circle. And in that seventh circle of hell, our very own, beloved circle, they learned that they could make the walls invisible, that they could make the windows yell, and that we could hide inside the shadows. When the first year of the workshop had ended, we organized a little closing party, like you do when a job is done with so much love, and you want to celebrate with a party. We called family, friends,  the university authorities. The only thing the inmates had to do was read a poem, and receive their diplomas and applause. That was our simple party. The only thing I want to leave you with is the moment in which those men, some of them just huge when standing next to me, or the young boys - so young, but with an enormous pride, held their papers and trembled like little kids and sweated, and read their poems with their voices completely broken. That moment made me think a lot that for most of them, it was surely the very first time that someone applauded them for something they had done. In prison there are things that can't be done. In prison, you can't dream. In prison, you can't cry. There are words that are virtually forbidden, like the word ""time,"" the word ""future,"" the word ""wish"". But we dared to dream, and to dream a lot. We decided that they were going to write a book. Not only did they write a book, but they also bound it themselves. That was at the end of 2010. Then, we doubled the bet and wrote another book. And we bound that one, too. That was a short time ago, at the end of last year. What I see week after week, is how they're turning into different people; how they're being transformed. How words are empowering them with a dignity they had never known, that they couldn't even imagine. They had no idea such dignity could come from them. At the workshop, in that beloved hell we share, we all give something. We open our hands and hearts and give what we have, what we can. All of us; all of us equally. And so you feel that at least in a small way you're repairing that huge social fracture which makes it so that for many of them, prison is their only destination. I remember a verse by a tremendous poet, a great poet, from our Unit 48 workshop, Nicolás Dorado: ""I will need an infinite thread to sew up this huge wound."" Poetry does that; it sews up the wounds of exclusion. It opens doors.  Poetry works as a mirror. It creates a mirror, which is the poem. They recognize themselves, they look at themselves in the poem and write from who they are, and are from what they write. In order to write, they need to appropriate the moment of writing which is a moment of extraordinary freedom. They have to get into their heads, search for that bit of freedom that can never be taken away when they write and that is also useful to realize that freedom is possible even inside a prison, and that the only bars we have in our wonderful space is the word ""bars,"" and that all of us in our hell burn with happiness when we light the wick of the word. (Applause) I told you a lot about the prison, a lot about what I experience every week, and how I enjoy it and transform myself with the inmates. But you don't know how much I'd like it if you could feel, live, experience, even for a few seconds, what I enjoy every week and what makes me who I am. (Applause) Martín Bustamante:  The heart chews tears of time; blinded by that light, it hides the speed of existence where the images go rowing by. It fights; it hangs on. The heart cracks under sad gazes, rides on storms that spread fire, lifts chests lowered by shame, knows that it's not just reading and going on, it also wishes to see the infinite blue. The heart sits down to think about things, fights to avoid being ordinary, tries to love without hurting, breathes the sun, giving courage to itself, surrenders, travels toward reason. The heart fights among the swamps, skirts the edge of the underworld, falls exhausted, but won't give in to what's easy, while irregular steps of intoxication wake up, wake the stillness. I'm Martín Bustamante, I'm a prisoner in Unit 48 of San Martín, today is my day of temporary release. And for me, poetry and literature have changed my life. Thank you very much! Cristina Domenech: Thank you! (Applause)"	有人說 要成為一個詩人你必須去過地獄後回來。我第一次去拜訪監獄時，關鎖，關門，柵欄，或其他我早已想到的聲音，都沒嚇到我。可能是因為監獄是一個相當大的開放空間。你可以看到天空。海鷗從頭上飛過，你覺得好像在海邊，非常靠近沙灘。但實際上，海鷗是在監獄附近的垃圾堆找食物。我走進去 突然看到囚犯在穿過走廊。然後我好像停下來 在想我也有可能是他們中間的一份子。如果我有另一個人生故事，在另一個時空，不同的運氣。因為沒有人－ 沒有人 －可以選擇他們的出生地。在2009年，我應邀參與聖‧馬丁國立大學在48號感化院所舉辦的一個協調寫作班的專案。獄方在監牢盡頭的一塊地上蓋了一個大學中心的建築物。我第一次見與囚犯見面時，我問他們為什麼他們要求上寫作課他們告訴我他們要將他們無法說和做的事情寫在紙上。那時我就決定我要將詩引進監獄。我就告訴他們如果你們知道詩是什麼我們何不寫詩。但沒有人真正知道詩是什麼。他們也向我建議這個班應該不應只是讓想要上大學課程的囚犯參加，所有囚犯應該都可參加。我同意後就開始了這個寫作課。我必須先找一個我們都知道的工具。那個工具就是語言。我們有語言，我們有這個課。我們就可以有詩。但我沒考慮到的是監獄也有不平等。許多囚犯甚至沒有讀完小學。許多不會寫草書，只會一點正楷。他們無法流暢的寫。所以我們開始找短詩。很短有很有力的短詩。然後我們開始讀詩，我們讀過一個詩人的詩再讀另一個的，在讀這些短詩，他們都開始理解詩的語言可以破壞某些邏輯，然後創造另一個系統。破壞語言的邏輯同時也破壞了系統的邏輯在那系統下他們已習慣去反應。因此一個新的系統出現了，讓他們很快能了解的新的規則，－ 很快的 －藉新規則和詩的語言他們可以完全表達他們想要的。有人說要成為詩人你必須去過地獄後再回來。他們已歷經夠多的地獄。夠多的地獄。他們中的一個曾說：「在監獄裏你無法睡你從來無法在監獄裏睡。你無法闔眼。」然後，就像我現在要做的，我請他們靜默一下，然後我說，「大夥們，那就是詩。它在這個監獄範圍內，在你的四周。你們所說的你不能睡覺，它滲出恐懼。所有這些你沒有寫出來的 －所有這些就是詩。」我們開始掌握這個地獄；我們將自己，頭向下，投入第七圈地獄。在第七圈地獄，我們自己的，最鍾愛的一圈，他們學到他們可以讓牆壁消失，他們可以讓窗戶咆哮，我們可以躲在影子下。當第一年的寫作課結束時，我們籌組了一個結業派對，就像你們用許多的愛做完一件工作後，你想要用一個派對來慶祝。我們邀請家人，朋友，大學的長官們。這些囚犯學生唯一要做的就是朗讀一首詩，然後接受他們的文憑和掌聲。那就是我們簡單的派對。我唯一要留下來的就是這些人的一些瞬間，他們有些站在我旁邊時顯得非常巨大，或著是年輕的男孩 － 非常年輕，但是很有榮譽的，拿著紙張，他們像小孩子一樣顫抖著，滿身大汗，在朗讀他們的詩時，聲音斷斷續續。這些瞬間讓我想了許多對他們許多人來說，這是他們的第一次第一次有人因為他們所做的向他們鼓掌。在監獄裏有許多不能做的事。在監獄，你不能夢想。在監獄，你不能哭。有許多字眼實質上是絕對禁止的，如「時間」，「將來」，「希望」。但是我們敢夢，要做許多夢。我們決定我們要寫一本書。他們不只寫了一本書，他們還自己裝訂。那是2010年底。然後，我們加碼再寫了另一本書。我們也裝訂了那一本。那是不久以前，去年底。我在一週又一週所看到的，是他們如何轉變成不同的人；他們如何被轉化。言語如何使他們得到他們從未有的尊嚴，那是他們從來甚至沒有想像的。他們從不知道他們可以有這樣的尊嚴。在上課時，在那個大家所愛的地獄裏我們分享，我們給予。我們敞開我們的雙手和心扉給予我們有的，能給的。我們所有人，平等地。然後你感覺到至少，少許的你在修補那個巨大的社會裂痕那些使的他們多數只有監獄這條歸路。我記得一個詩句一個非常好的，偉大的詩人寫的，來自我們第48號感化院，尼可拉斯‧竇拉竇：「 我會需要一條無限長的線來縫補這個巨大的傷口。」詩可以，它可以縫補「排斥」的傷口。它開啟門。詩可成為一面鏡子。它創造一個鏡子，那就是詩。他們認識他們是誰，他們在詩裏看著自己從他們是誰寫詩，詩裏寫的就是他們是誰為了寫詩，他們需要擁有寫作的瞬間那是一個不尋常的自由的瞬間。他們必須在自己的頭腦裏，找尋那一點的自由那個自由在他們寫的時候，是無人可以拿走的了解自由的可能也是很有用的甚至在監獄裏，我們在這個美好的空間裏唯有的欄杆就是「欄杆」這個字眼，當我們點著字詞的蕊心。我們全體在我們的地獄裏被快樂所燃燒（鼓掌）（掌聲停止）我已告訴你們許多我在監獄的經歷每一週，我如何享受這個經歷，如何與囚犯一起轉化自我。但是你們無法知道我喜愛的程度如果你可以感覺到，如我過著，經驗著即使是幾秒，我每週所享受的和什麼造就了現在的我。（掌聲）馬丁‧佈斯塔曼特：這個心咀嚼時間的眼淚；被亮光蒙蔽，它隱藏存在的速度那裏影像划著過去。它搏鬥；它抓著不放。心在憂傷的凝視下破碎，乘坐著散發火焰的風暴。挺起因羞愧而彎下的胸膛。知道不只是讀著而繼續，它也期望見到無限的藍。心坐下來想事，奮鬥以避免平凡，嘗試不傷害的去愛，吸入太陽，給自己勇氣，投降，朝向理性。心在沼澤中奮鬥，位於地獄的邊緣，耗盡而倒，但絕不向容易低頭。從沈醉的不穩的腳步醒來，喚醒寂靜。我是馬丁‧佈斯塔曼特，我是聖‧馬丁第48號感化院的囚犯，今天是我暫時釋放的日子。對我而言，詩和文學改變了我的生命。非常感謝你們！謝謝（掌聲）
