Talk	en	zh-tw
dalia_mogahed_what_do_you_think_when_you_look_at_me	"What do you think when you look at me? A woman of faith? An expert? Maybe even a sister. Or oppressed, brainwashed, a terrorist. Or just an airport security line delay. That one's actually true. (Laughter) If some of your perceptions were negative, I don't really blame you. That's just how the media has been portraying people who look like me. One study found that 80 percent of news coverage about Islam and Muslims is negative. And studies show that Americans say that most don't know a Muslim. I guess people don't talk to their Uber drivers. (Laughter) Well, for those of you who have never met a Muslim, it's great to meet you. Let me tell you who I am. I'm a mom, a coffee lover — double espresso, cream on the side. I'm an introvert. I'm a wannabe fitness fanatic. And I'm a practicing, spiritual Muslim. But not like Lady Gaga says, because baby, I wasn't born this way. It was a choice. When I was 17, I decided to come out. No, not as a gay person like some of my friends, but as a Muslim, and decided to start wearing the hijab, my head covering. My feminist friends were aghast: ""Why are you oppressing yourself?"" The funny thing was, it was actually at that time a feminist declaration of independence from the pressure I felt as a 17-year-old, to conform to a perfect and unattainable standard of beauty. I didn't just passively accept the faith of my parents. I wrestled with the Quran. I read and reflected and questioned and doubted and, ultimately, believed. My relationship with God — it was not love at first sight. It was a trust and a slow surrender that deepened with every reading of the Quran. Its rhythmic beauty sometimes moves me to tears. I see myself in it. I feel that God knows me. Have you ever felt like someone sees you, completely understands you and yet loves you anyway? That's how it feels. And so later, I got married, and like all good Egyptians, started my career as an engineer. (Laughter) I later had a child, after getting married, and I was living essentially the Egyptian-American dream. And then that terrible morning of September, 2001. I think a lot of you probably remember exactly where you were that morning. I was sitting in my kitchen finishing breakfast, and I look up on the screen and see the words ""Breaking News."" There was smoke, airplanes flying into buildings, people jumping out of buildings. What was this? An accident? A malfunction? My shock quickly turned to outrage. Who would do this? And I switch the channel and I hear, ""... Muslim terrorist ...,"" ""... in the name of Islam ...,"" ""... Middle-Eastern descent ...,"" ""... jihad ...,"" ""... we should bomb Mecca."" Oh my God. Not only had my country been attacked, but in a flash, somebody else's actions had turned me from a citizen to a suspect. That same day, we had to drive across Middle America to move to a new city to start grad school. And I remember sitting in the passenger seat as we drove in silence, crouched as low as I could go in my seat, for the first time in my life, afraid for anyone to know I was a Muslim. We moved into our apartment that night in a new town in what felt like a completely different world. And then I was hearing and seeing and reading warnings from national Muslim organizations saying things like, ""Be alert,"" ""Be aware,"" ""Stay in well-lit areas,"" ""Don't congregate."" I stayed inside all week. And then it was Friday that same week, the day that Muslims congregate for worship. And again the warnings were, ""Don't go that first Friday, it could be a target."" And I was watching the news, wall-to-wall coverage. Emotions were so raw, understandably, and I was also hearing about attacks on Muslims, or people who were perceived to be Muslim, being pulled out and beaten in the street. Mosques were actually firebombed. And I thought, we should just stay home. And yet, something didn't feel right. Because those people who attacked our country attacked our country. I get it that people were angry at the terrorists. Guess what? So was I. And so to have to explain yourself all the time isn't easy. I don't mind questions. I love questions. It's the accusations that are tough. Today we hear people actually saying things like, ""There's a problem in this country, and it's called Muslims. When are we going to get rid of them?"" So, some people want to ban Muslims and close down mosques. They talk about my community kind of like we're a tumor in the body of America. And the only question is, are we malignant or benign? You know, a malignant tumor you extract altogether, and a benign tumor you just keep under surveillance. The choices don't make sense, because it's the wrong question. Muslims, like all other Americans, aren't a tumor in the body of America, we're a vital organ. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Muslims are inventors and teachers, first responders and Olympic athletes. Now, is closing down mosques going to make America safer? It might free up some parking spots, but it will not end terrorism. Going to a mosque regularly is actually linked to having more tolerant views of people of other faiths and greater civic engagement. And as one police chief in the Washington, DC area recently told me, people don't actually get radicalized at mosques. They get radicalized in their basement or bedroom, in front of a computer. And what you find about the radicalization process is it starts online, but the first thing that happens is the person gets cut off from their community, from even their family, so that the extremist group can brainwash them into believing that they, the terrorists, are the true Muslims, and everyone else who abhors their behavior and ideology are sellouts or apostates. So if we want to prevent radicalization, we have to keep people going to the mosque. Now, some will still argue Islam is a violent religion. After all, a group like ISIS bases its brutality on the Quran. Now, as a Muslim, as a mother, as a human being, I think we need to do everything we can to stop a group like ISIS. But we would be giving in to their narrative if we cast them as representatives of a faith of 1.6 billion people. (Applause) Thank you. ISIS has as much to do with Islam as the Ku Klux Klan has to do with Christianity. (Applause) Both groups claim to base their ideology on their holy book. But when you look at them, they're not motivated by what they read in their holy book. It's their brutality that makes them read these things into the scripture. Recently, a prominent imam told me a story that really took me aback. He said that a girl came to him because she was thinking of going to join ISIS. And I was really surprised and asked him, had she been in contact with a radical religious leader? And he said the problem was quite the opposite, that every cleric that she had talked to had shut her down and said that her rage, her sense of injustice in the world, was just going to get her in trouble. And so with nowhere to channel and make sense of this anger, she was a prime target to be exploited by extremists promising her a solution. What this imam did was to connect her back to God and to her community. He didn't shame her for her rage — instead, he gave her constructive ways to make real change in the world. What she learned at that mosque prevented her from going to join ISIS. I've told you a little bit about how Islamophobia affects me and my family. But how does it impact ordinary Americans? How does it impact everyone else? How does consuming fear 24 hours a day affect the health of our democracy, the health of our free thought? Well, one study — actually, several studies in neuroscience — show that when we're afraid, at least three things happen. We become more accepting of authoritarianism, conformity and prejudice. One study showed that when subjects were exposed to news stories that were negative about Muslims, they became more accepting of military attacks on Muslim countries and policies that curtail the rights of American Muslims. Now, this isn't just academic. When you look at when anti-Muslim sentiment spiked between 2001 and 2013, it happened three times, but it wasn't around terrorist attacks. It was in the run up to the Iraq War and during two election cycles. So Islamophobia isn't just the natural response to Muslim terrorism as I would have expected. It can actually be a tool of public manipulation, eroding the very foundation of a free society, which is rational and well-informed citizens. Muslims are like canaries in the coal mine. We might be the first to feel it, but the toxic air of fear is harming us all. (Applause) And assigning collective guilt isn't just about having to explain yourself all the time. Deah and his wife Yusor were a young married couple living in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, where they both went to school. Deah was an athlete. He was in dental school, talented, promising ... And his sister would tell me that he was the sweetest, most generous human being she knew. She was visiting him there and he showed her his resume, and she was amazed. She said, ""When did my baby brother become such an accomplished young man?"" Just a few weeks after Suzanne's visit to her brother and his new wife, their neighbor, Craig Stephen Hicks, murdered them, as well as Yusor's sister, Razan, who was visiting for the afternoon, in their apartment, execution style, after posting anti-Muslim statements on his Facebook page. He shot Deah eight times. So bigotry isn't just immoral, it can even be lethal. So, back to my story. What happened after 9/11? Did we go to the mosque or did we play it safe and stay home? Well, we talked it over, and it might seem like a small decision, but to us, it was about what kind of America we wanted to leave for our kids: one that would control us by fear or one where we were practicing our religion freely. So we decided to go to the mosque. And we put my son in his car seat, buckled him in, and we drove silently, intensely, to the mosque. I took him out, I took off my shoes, I walked into the prayer hall and what I saw made me stop. The place was completely full. And then the imam made an announcement, thanking and welcoming our guests, because half the congregation were Christians, Jews, Buddhists, atheists, people of faith and no faith, who had come not to attack us, but to stand in solidarity with us. (Applause) I just break down at this time. These people were there because they chose courage and compassion over panic and prejudice. What will you choose? What will you choose at this time of fear and bigotry? Will you play it safe? Or will you join those who say we are better than that? Thank you. (Applause) Thank you so much. Helen Walters: So Dalia, you seem to have struck a chord. But I wonder, what would you say to those who might argue that you're giving a TED Talk, you're clearly a deep thinker, you work at a fancy think tank, you're an exception, you're not the rule. What would you say to those people? Dalia Mogahed: I would say, don't let this stage distract you, I'm completely ordinary. I'm not an exception. My story is not unusual. I am as ordinary as they come. When you look at Muslims around the world — and I've done this, I've done the largest study ever done on Muslims around the world — people want ordinary things. They want prosperity for their family, they want jobs and they want to live in peace. So I am not in any way an exception. When you meet people who seem like an exception to the rule, oftentimes it's that the rule is broken, not that they're an exception to it. HW: Thank you so much. Dalia Mogahed. (Applause)"	當你看著我的時候，你會想到什麼？一個充滿信仰的女人？一位專家？甚至可能是一位姐妹或者，是受壓迫的被洗腦的一個恐怖份子或者只是個造成機場安檢延遲的原因這一個倒是真的 (笑聲) 如果你們之中有些人對我的看法是負面的，我並不怪你那就是媒體一直以來對於像我這樣的人所塑造的形象有一個研究發現80% 關於伊斯蘭與穆斯林的新聞報導都是負面的研究也顯示多數的美國人說他們不認識任何穆斯林我猜大家大概都不會和他們的Uber司機聊天吧 (笑聲) 那麼，給你們之中從來不曾遇過穆斯林的人很高興認識你讓我向你們介紹我是誰我是一位母親一位咖啡愛好者雙份濃縮，奶油放旁邊我是一個內向的人我是一個想成為健身狂的人我還是一個信奉、虔誠的穆斯林但並不像女神卡卡所說的因為親愛的，我並不是生來如此這是我自己選擇的 當我17歲時，我決定要公開不，不是像我一些朋友那樣公開自己是同性戀而是公開表示自己是穆斯林並且決定開始穿戴我的面紗頭巾我的女性主義朋友都驚呆了「為什麼妳要壓迫自己？」有趣的事情是實際上，就在那時女性主義獨立宣言的壓力壓在17歲的我身上我得符合一個難以達到的完「美」標準我並不只是消極地接受我父母親的信仰我鑽研可蘭經我閱讀、反思、質疑與懷疑然後，最終相信我與神的關係並不是一見鍾情而是基於信任與逐漸的臣服隨著我每次閱讀可蘭經更加深它的節奏之美有時候使我感動落淚我在那之中看到了自己我覺得神認識我你是否曾感受過某個人看透且完全了解你但依然不計代價地愛你？那就是我的感受 不久之後，我結婚了就像所有模範埃及人一樣開啟了工程師的職業生涯 (笑聲) 我婚後生了個小孩我活在貨真價實的埃及-美國夢裡 然後那個恐怖的早晨到來，2001年9月我想你們大部分人應該都清楚記得那個早上你們在哪裡我當時坐在廚房吃早餐我抬頭看電視螢幕看到「重大新聞」幾個字我看到濃煙，飛機飛入大樓人們跳出大樓那是怎麼回事？一場意外？一次故障？我的震驚很快轉變成憤怒誰會做這種事？然後我轉台並聽到 「...穆斯林恐怖分子...」「...以伊斯蘭教之名...」「...中東襲擊...」「...聖戰...」「...我們應該炸掉麥加...」我的天啊 不僅是我的國家遭到攻擊了而且在轉瞬間因為別人的舉動使我從一位公民淪為嫌疑犯 就在那同一天我們必須開車越過美國中部搬到一個新的城市，開始上碩士學院我記得坐在副駕駛座當時我們在車上沉默不語我盡可能縮進我的座位人生第一次，我害怕有人知道我是穆斯林 我們那天晚上搬進了新城鎮的公寓那感覺就像是一個完全不同的世界然後，我聽到、看到跟讀到來自全國穆斯林組織的警告說「要警覺」、「要小心」「待在燈火通明的地區」「不要聚集」 我一整個星期都待在家裡然後是那一週的星期五穆斯林會聚在一起做禮拜的日子然後再一次，警告又說「第一個星期五不要去了可能會成為目標。」我看著新聞，大量的報導情緒是那麼地激昂、可以理解的我也聽到對穆斯林的攻擊或者被認為是穆斯林的人被拉出家門並在街上被毆打有人朝清真寺丟汽油彈所以我想，我們應該待在家裡 然而，有些事感覺不太對勁因為那些攻擊「我們國家」的人攻擊了「我們的國家」我了解大家為什麼對恐怖份子感到憤怒你猜怎麼樣？我也是必須要一直為自己解釋，並不容易我不介意有疑問，我熱愛疑問然而，很難熬的是那些指控 現在我們聽到人們真的會說「這個國家有一個問題，叫穆斯林」「我們什麼時候才要擺脫他們？」所以，有些人想要驅逐穆斯林並且關閉清真寺他們談論我的社區好像我們是某種腫瘤長在美國的身體裡而唯一的問題是我們是惡性還是良性的呢？你懂的，一個惡性的腫瘤你會把它斬草除根而一個良性的腫瘤你只會把它留下察看 這些選項並不合理因為這是一個錯誤的問題穆斯林，就像其他的美國人不是美國身體裡的一顆腫瘤我們是一個重要的器官 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲) 穆斯林是發明家跟老師急救人員與奧運選手 那麼，關閉清真寺真的會讓美國更安全嗎？這或許會空出一些停車位置但不會終結恐怖主義定期去清真寺實際上能使人對於不同信仰的信徒有更多包容的觀點並且促進公民參與某位華盛頓特區的警察局長最近告訴我人們並不是真的在清真寺裡成為激進份子他們是在地下室或臥室的電腦前，成為偏激份子而你會發現，激進化過程是從網路開始但在這之前會發生的事情是那個人會先與自己的社區做切割甚至是與家人產生隔離好讓極端組織能對他們洗腦使他們相信恐怖份子他們，才是真正的穆斯林而任何厭惡他們行為或理念的人都是叛徒或變節者所以如果我們想要避免激進化我們必須讓人持續去清真寺 雖然仍有些人認為伊斯蘭是一個暴力的宗教畢竟，像 ISIS 那樣的組織將其暴行建立在可蘭經之上然而，身為穆斯林身為母親，身為人我認為我們必須盡一切努力去阻止像 ISIS 那樣的組織但是我們會正中他們的下懷如果我們將他們視為一個有16億人信仰的代表 (掌聲) 謝謝 ISIS 與伊斯蘭教的關係就像 3K 黨與基督教一樣 (掌聲) 這兩個組織都宣稱他們的思想體系是建立在他們的聖典之上但是，當你觀察他們激勵他們這些行為的不是來自他們從聖典中所讀到的是他們的殘暴使他們將暴行讀入經典之中 最近，一位傑出的教長說了一個使我吃驚的故事他說有一個女孩來找他因為她在考慮加入 ISIS我非常驚訝，並問他她是否與激進的宗教領導接觸過？而他說問題其實正好相反每個與她相談的神職人員都拒絕了她並說她的憤怒、她對世界不公的感受都只會為她帶來麻煩由於無處可以抒發無法理解這股憤怒她成為極端份子利用的主要目標藉由應許她一個解決之道這位教長所做的是使她重回真主與她的社區之中他沒有因為她的憤怒而責備她相反的，他給她有建設性的方向來為這個世界做些真正的改變她從清真寺中所學到的阻止了她加入 ISIS 我已經告訴了你們一些伊斯蘭恐懼症如何影響我和家人的事但伊斯蘭恐懼症又是如何影響一般美國民眾呢？它是如何影響其他人？一天24小時都活在恐懼的吞噬下是如何影響我們民主制度的健全？我們自由思想的健全？ 一項研究... 事實上有好幾項神經學的研究都指出當我們害怕時，至少會出現三個現象我們會變得更容易接受威權順從，與偏見一項研究顯示當受實驗者越大量接收到與穆斯林相關的負面新聞時他們便越能接受對穆斯林國家的軍事攻擊以及限制美國穆斯林權利的政策 不僅僅是學術上的研究當你觀察反穆斯林情結激升在 2001 到 2013 年之間就發生了三次但並不是發生在恐怖攻擊前後而是在發起伊拉克戰爭前和兩次選舉期間因此，伊斯蘭恐懼症並不單純只是對穆斯林恐怖主義的反應不如我預想的那樣它實際上可以是一個政治操控的手段侵蝕了一個自由社會最重要的根基也就是理性與資訊充分的公民穆斯林就像是礦坑裡的金絲雀我們或許是第一個感受到的但恐懼的毒氣卻是傷害著所有人 (掌聲) 而施加集體罪責不單純只是得一直為自己辯解狄耶和他的太太優絲是一對年輕的夫婦住在北卡羅萊納州教堂山他們都在那裡念書狄耶是運動員他就讀牙醫學院富有天份，有著大好前程他的姊姊會告訴我他是她所認識最貼心、無私的人她去他家做客他拿履歷給姊姊看時她大吃一驚她說：「我的小弟什麼時候變成一位如此有為的青年了？」就在蘇珊拜訪她弟弟與新婚妻子的幾週之後他們的鄰居奎格‧史蒂芬‧希克斯殺了他們以及優絲的姊妹若珊她下午去做客就在他們的公寓裡他以處決的形式殺死他們在這之前，他上臉書發表了反穆斯林言論他向狄耶開了八槍偏執不僅是邪惡的還有可能是致命的 那麼，回到我的故事在 911 之後發生了什麼事？我們有去清真寺嗎？還是我們為了安全留在家裡？嗯，我們討論了一下而這看起來可能只是一個小的決定但是對我們來說這是關於我們想要留給孩子什麼樣的美國是一個可以藉由恐懼控制我們的國家還是一個我們能有自由信仰宗教的國家所以我們決定去清真寺我們把兒子放在安全座椅上為他繫上安全帶我們安靜、嚴肅地開往清真寺我抱他出來，脫掉我的鞋子走進禮拜殿而我所見到的，使我停下腳步禮拜殿擠滿了人然後教長做了個開場感謝與歡迎我們的客人因為有半數的會眾是基督徒、猶太教徒佛教徒與無神論者有信仰與沒有信仰的人他們並不是來攻擊我們而是來與我們團結一致 (掌聲) 我在那個當下崩潰了那些人到那裡因為他們選擇了勇氣與關懷而非恐慌與偏見 你會怎麼選擇？在這個恐懼與偏執的時候你會怎麼選擇？你會打安全牌或是你會加入那些站出來說「我們理智多了」的人？ 謝謝 (掌聲) 非常謝謝 海倫．華特：達莉亞你顯然打動了觀眾但是我好奇對那些認為你都能受邀來 TED 演講你明顯是個有深度的思考家你在一間高級的智庫工作所以你是例外，你不是通例你會對那些人說什麼？ 達莉亞．墨訶：我會說不要讓這個舞台誤導你我非常平凡我不是例外我的故事並不稀奇我真是平凡到不行當你看看全世界的穆斯林...我曾這麼做過我做了有史以來最大的研究探討全世界的穆斯林大家只想要平凡的事物他們想要家庭繁榮他們想要好好工作他們想要活在和平之中所以在任何一個方面我都不是例外當你遇到某些人看起來像是體制上的例外時通常是那個體制有問題而非他們是例外 海倫：非常謝謝你，達莉亞．墨訶 (掌聲)
