Talk	en	zh-tw
dame_stephanie_shirley_why_do_ambitious_women_have_flat_heads	"When I wrote my memoir, the publishers were really confused. Was it about me as a child refugee, or as a woman who set up a high-tech software company back in the 1960s, one that went public and eventually employed over 8,500 people? Or was it as a mother of an autistic child? Or as a philanthropist that's now given away serious money? Well, it turns out, I'm all of these. So let me tell you my story. All that I am stems from when I got onto a train in Vienna, part of the Kindertransport that saved nearly 10,000 Jewish children from Nazi Europe. I was five years old, clutching the hand of my nine-year-old sister and had very little idea as to  what was going on. ""What is England and  why am I going there?"" I'm only alive because so long ago,  I was helped by generous strangers. I was lucky, and doubly lucky to be later reunited with my birth parents. But, sadly, I never bonded  with them again. But I've done more in the seven decades since that miserable day when my mother put me on the train than I would ever have dreamed possible. And I love England, my adopted country, with a passion that perhaps only someone who has lost their human rights can feel. I decided to make mine a life that was worth saving. And then, I just got on with it. (Laughter) Let me take you back to the early 1960s. To get past the gender issues of the time, I set up my own software house at one of the first such startups in Britain. But it was also a company of women, a company for women, an early social business. And people laughed at the very idea because software, at that time, was given away free with hardware. Nobody would buy software, certainly not from a woman. Although women were then coming out of the universities with decent degrees, there was a glass ceiling to our progress. And I'd hit that glass ceiling too often, and I wanted opportunities for women. I recruited professionally qualified women who'd left the industry on marriage, or when their first child was expected and structured them into a home-working organization. We pioneered the concept of women going back into the workforce after a career break. We pioneered all sorts of new, flexible work methods: job shares, profit-sharing,  and eventually, co-ownership when I took a quarter of the company into the hands of the staff at no cost to anyone but me. For years, I was the first woman this, or the only woman that. And in those days, I couldn't work on the stock exchange, I couldn't drive a bus or fly an airplane. Indeed, I couldn't open a bank account without my husband's permission. My generation of women fought the battles for the right to work and the right for equal pay. Nobody really expected much  from people at work or in society because all the expectations then were about home and  family responsibilities. And I couldn't really face that, so I started to challenge the conventions of the time, even to the extent of changing my name from ""Stephanie"" to ""Steve"" in my business development letters, so as to get through the door before anyone realized that he was a she. (Laughter) My company, called Freelance Programmers, and that's precisely what it was, couldn't have started smaller:  on the dining room table, and financed by the equivalent of 100 dollars in today's terms, and financed by my labor and  by borrowing against the house. My interests were scientific,  the market was commercial — things such as payroll, which I found rather boring. So I had to compromise with  operational research work, which had the intellectual challenge  that interested me and the commercial value  that was valued by the clients: things like scheduling freight trains, time-tabling buses, stock control, lots and lots of stock control. And eventually, the work came in. We disguised the domestic and part-time nature of the staff by offering fixed prices, one of the very first to do so. And who would have guessed that the programming of the black box flight recorder  of Supersonic Concord would have been done by a bunch  of women working in their own homes. (Applause) All we used was a simple  ""trust the staff"" approach and a simple telephone. We even used to ask job applicants,  ""Do you have access to a telephone?"" An early project was to develop software standards on management control protocols. And software was and still is a maddeningly hard-to-control activity, so that was enormously valuable. We used the standards ourselves, we were even paid to update  them over the years, and eventually, they were adopted by NATO. Our programmers — remember, only women, including gay and transgender — worked with pencil and paper to develop flowcharts defining each task to be done. And they then wrote code,  usually machine code, sometimes binary code, which was then sent by mail to a data center to be punched onto paper tape or card and then re-punched,  in order to verify it. All this, before it ever got near a computer. That was programming in the early 1960s. In 1975, 13 years from startup, equal opportunity legislation  came in in Britain and that made it illegal to have  our pro-female policies. And as an example of  unintended consequences, my female company had to let the men in. (Laughter) When I started my company of women, the men said, ""How interesting, because it only works because it's small."" And later, as it became sizable,  they accepted, ""Yes, it is sizable now, but of no strategic interest."" And later, when it was a company valued at over three billion dollars, and I'd made 70 of the staff  into millionaires, they sort of said, ""Well done, Steve!"" (Laughter) (Applause) You can always tell ambitious women by the shape of our heads: They're flat on top for being  patted patronizingly. (Laughter) (Applause) And we have larger feet to stand away from the kitchen sink. (Laughter) Let me share with you  two secrets of success: Surround yourself with first-class people and people that you like; and choose your partner very, very carefully. Because the other day when I said,  ""My husband's an angel,"" a woman complained — ""You're lucky,"" she said, ""mine's still alive."" (Laughter) If success were easy,  we'd all be millionaires. But in my case, it came in the midst of family trauma and indeed, crisis. Our late son, Giles, was an only child, a beautiful, contented baby. And then, at two and a half, like a changeling in a fairy story, he lost the little speech that he had and turned into a wild,  unmanageable toddler. Not the terrible twos; he was profoundly autistic  and he never spoke again. Giles was the first resident in the first house of the first charity that I set up to pioneer services for autism. And then there's been a groundbreaking Prior's Court school for pupils with autism and a medical research charity, again, all for autism. Because whenever I found a gap in services, I tried to help. I like doing new things  and making new things happen. And I've just started a three-year  think tank for autism. And so that some of my wealth does go back to the industry from which it stems, I've also founded  the Oxford Internet Institute and other IT ventures. The Oxford Internet Institute focuses not on the technology, but on the social, economic, legal and ethical issues of the Internet. Giles died unexpectedly 17 years ago now. And I have learned to live without him, and I have learned to live  without his need of me. Philanthropy is all that I do now. I need never worry about getting lost because several charities would quickly come and find me. (Laughter) It's one thing to have an idea  for an enterprise, but as many people in this room will know, making it happen is a very difficult thing and it demands extraordinary energy, self-belief and determination, the courage to risk family and home, and a 24/7 commitment  that borders on the obsessive. So it's just as well that I'm a workaholic. I believe in the beauty of work when we do it properly and in humility. Work is not just something I do when I'd rather be doing something else. We live our lives forward. So what has all that taught me? I learned that tomorrow's  never going to be like today, and certainly nothing like yesterday. And that made me able to cope with change, indeed, eventually to welcome change, though I'm told I'm still very difficult. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我在寫我的回憶錄時，出版商都覺得很困惑。他們不確定這本書是要談我童年的難民故事，是要談一個女人如何在 60 年代創辦一家高科技軟體公司，公開上市，並聘用超過 8500 名員工？是要談自閉症小孩母親的心路歷程？又或是談一個慈善家為何捐出大把家產?結果是以上皆是。現在就讓我來談談我的故事。 一切都得從我在維也納跳上一班火車開始，那班火車是孩童援救計劃之一，從納粹佔領的歐洲拯救了近一萬名猶太兒童。我那時候五歲，緊緊抓著我九歲姊姊的手。我根本不知道發生什麼事。「什麼是英國？為什麼要去哪裡？」我之所以能存活，是因為很久以前我受到慷慨陌生人的幫助。我很幸運，超級幸運，才能在日後與我的親生父母重聚。但難過的是，我們之間沒辦法再建立緊密的親情聯結。從那苦難日，我媽媽把我送上火車之後，70 年來，我做過很多事情，遠遠超過我的想像。我喜愛英國，這個接納我的國家。這種熱愛，或許只有喪失過人權的人才能感受。我決定讓我的人生有意義，才能回報救過我的人，誰知道後來有點欲罷不能。（笑聲） 讓我從 1960 年代早期開始講起。因為當時有性別歧視的問題，我成立了自己的軟體公司。英國第一批軟體公司之一。這家公司只有女性員工，提供女性就業機會，算是早期的社會企業。人們覺得這種作法很可笑，因為當時軟體是隨硬體贈送的產品。沒有人會買軟體，當然更不會跟婦女買。雖然當時婦女開始取得體面的大學學歷，玻璃天花板對婦女的職業生涯仍是一道無形阻隔。我自己也不斷面臨這無形的障礙，所以我想提供女性工作機會。 我招募專業且能力優秀，卻因為結婚而離職的女性，或是因為懷孕生子而離職的女性，讓婦女可以在家完成工作。我們用前瞻性的想法讓女性在職業中斷後，可以再回到工作崗位。我們提倡各類新穎、靈活的工作方法：工作分擔，利潤分紅，員工進而成為公司的股東。我將公司股權的四分之一無償交給除了我之外的員工。多年來，我是第一位也是唯一這麼做的女性。當時，我無法在證券交易所工作，我不能開巴士或是開飛機。甚至沒有我老公的同意，我就不能開立銀行帳號。我們這個年代的女性為工作權，為薪資平等權而奮戰。 當時沒有人在工作職場或社會上對女性有很高的期望因為當時對女性的期待是家務和家庭責任。我實在無法接受這樣的現況，因此我開始挑戰當時的傳統，甚至在商務書信上，將我的名字由「斯蒂芬妮」改為「史蒂夫」，在有人發現我是女非男之前，就先打開商業交易的大門。（笑聲） 我的公司名稱是「自由程式設計者」，這實在是名符其實。我創業的地點小到不能再小，從我的餐桌開始創業資金相當於今天的 100 美元。這資金是我工作膁來的錢，再加上房子的抵押貸款我的興趣是科學技術，但要有市場就要懂商 —像薪資之類的事情，我覺得相當無聊。但我必須在研發工作上讓步，在我有興趣，充滿智力挑戰的工作上讓步，轉而了解客戶所重視的商業價值：如安排貨運火車、了解巴士時刻表、控制庫存量，許多的庫存管理工作。最後我們終於接到訂單。我們以產品固定價格來掩飾我們是在家創業的小公司，而且員工都是兼職，我們首創固定價格的先例。有誰會想到協和號超音速客機的飛行記錄黑盒子的程式是由一群在家工作的女性所設計。（掌聲） 我們的作法很簡單，就是「相信員工」加上一台普通的電話。我們甚至問求職者，「你有電話可以用嗎？」 早期的專案是發展管理控制協議的軟體標準。軟體一直是難以控制到令人發狂的東西，因此極有價值。我們的程式碼使用自己的軟體標準，多年來我們收取軟體更新服務費，後來，北大西洋公約組織採用這套軟體標準我們的程式設計師 —別忘了，她們全是女性，包括同性戀和變性人—以紙筆設計程式流程圖來定義每項必項完成的任務。接著寫程式碼，通常是寫機械碼，有時寫二進制編碼，以郵件寄到資料中心，把程式碼打在紙帶或卡片上以便讓計算機讀取該程式碼然後再打一次程式碼在卡片上，以確保所輸入的程式碼是正確的。這些都是電腦出現以前的做法。這是 1960 年代編寫程式碼的方式。 1975 年，公司創立後第 13 年，英國通過就業機會平等法規，我們再也不能只僱用女性。所以發生一個料想不到的結果，我們這家女性公司，不得不聘用男性。（笑聲） 當我開始創立我的女性公司時，男人的回應是，真有趣，這公司能持續運作，是因為規模小。後來，當公司愈來愈有規模，他們又說，是啊！是有點規模，但是毫無戰略利益後來，當公司市值超過 30 億美金而且我的 70 位員工都成為百萬富翁，他們有點不情不願地說：「幹得好，史蒂夫！」（笑聲）（掌聲） 你可以依頭型分辨出有野心的女人：她們頭是平的，因為不時要屈尊俯就讓人拍打。（笑聲）（掌聲）我們有較大的腳丫子讓我們可以走出廚房。（笑聲） 我跟各位分享成功的二個秘密：跟優秀且你喜歡的人一起合作；及小心謹慎地選擇合作夥伴。幾天前，我說「我的老公是天使，」有個女人抱怨道，「你真幸運，」「我的老公還活著。」（笑聲） 如果成功垂手可得，那我們都會是百萬富翁。就我而言，我的成功夾雜著家庭創傷和危機。我已過世的獨子賈爾斯是一個美麗，隨遇而安的小孩。在他二歲半的時候，像是童話故事裡被仙女偷換的小孩，他不再說話變成一個任性、不聽話的小孩。他不是一般可怕的兩歲小孩；他有嚴重的自閉症，而且從此不再開口說話。我為自閉症患者設立了第一所慈善機構賈爾斯是第一位入住者。後來我們還開創先例為自閉症孩童設立特殊學校，同時也為自閉症患者成立醫療研究慈善機構。只要我發現有服務不足的地方我就會盡力幫忙。我喜歡創新並實現創新的想法。我最近剛為自閉患者成立了一個為期三年的智囊團。 我把一些財富回饋給社會，我也成立牛津網路研究所投資其他資訊科技創投產業。牛津網路研究所不只關注科技議題，也關注網路上社會、經濟、法律以及道德議題。 17 年前，賈爾斯意外過世。我已學會習慣沒有他在身邊的日子，我學會習慣他不再需要我的的日子。現在我把重心放在慈善事業上。我從不會擔心迷路因為有許多慈善機構很快就會找到我。（笑聲） 有創業的想法是一回事，但在座的各位也知道，要實現想法是件很困難的事我們需要超乎常人的精力，要有自信和決心，承擔家庭問題風險的勇氣，全年無休地獻身在自己的事業上。所以幸好我是個工作狂。我相信工作的美好只要我們能以正確和謙卑的心將工作做好。工作並不是你不能不忍受的某件事 生活要往前看。所以，我的這些經歷經教了我什麼？我學到明天將不同於今日，當然也不會跟昨天一樣。這樣的觀念幫助我應付所有的變化，最後甚至擁抱改變，雖然有人說，我還是很固執 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
