Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_gilbert_you_are_always_changing	"At every stage of our lives we make decisions that will profoundly influence the lives of the people we're going to become, and then when we become those people, we're not always thrilled with the decisions we made. So young people pay good money to get tattoos removed that teenagers paid good money to get. Middle-aged people rushed to divorce people who young adults rushed to marry. Older adults work hard to lose what middle-aged adults worked hard to gain. On and on and on. The question is, as a psychologist, that fascinates me is, why do we make decisions that our future selves so often regret? Now, I think one of the reasons — I'll try to convince you today — is that we have a fundamental misconception about the power of time. Every one of you knows that the rate of change slows over the human lifespan, that your children seem to change by the minute but your parents seem to change by the year. But what is the name of this magical point in life where change suddenly goes from a gallop to a crawl? Is it teenage years? Is it middle age? Is it old age? The answer, it turns out, for most people, is now, wherever now happens to be. What I want to convince you today is that all of us are walking around with an illusion, an illusion that history, our personal history, has just come to an end, that we have just recently become the people that we were always meant to be and will be for the rest of our lives. Let me give you some data to back up that claim. So here's a study of change in people's personal values over time. Here's three values. Everybody here holds all of them, but you probably know that as you grow, as you age, the balance of these values shifts. So how does it do so? Well, we asked thousands of people. We asked half of them to predict for us how much their values would change in the next 10 years, and the others to tell us how much their values had changed in the last 10 years. And this enabled us to do a really interesting kind of analysis, because it allowed us to compare the predictions of people, say, 18 years old, to the reports of people who were 28, and to do that kind of analysis throughout the lifespan. Here's what we found. First of all, you are right, change does slow down as we age, but second, you're wrong, because it doesn't slow nearly as much as we think. At every age, from 18 to 68 in our data set, people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years. We call this the ""end of history"" illusion. To give you an idea of the magnitude of this effect, you can connect these two lines, and what you see here is that 18-year-olds anticipate changing only as much as 50-year-olds actually do. Now it's not just values. It's all sorts of other things. For example, personality. Many of you know that psychologists now claim that there are five fundamental dimensions of personality: neuroticism, openness to experience, agreeableness, extraversion, and conscientiousness. Again, we asked people how much they expected to change over the next 10 years, and also how much they had changed over the last 10 years, and what we found, well, you're going to get used to seeing this diagram over and over, because once again the rate of change does slow as we age, but at every age, people underestimate how much their personalities will change in the next decade. And it isn't just ephemeral things like values and personality. You can ask people about their likes and dislikes, their basic preferences. For example, name your best friend, your favorite kind of vacation, what's your favorite hobby, what's your favorite kind of music. People can name these things. We ask half of them to tell us, ""Do you think that that will change over the next 10 years?"" and half of them to tell us, ""Did that change over the last 10 years?"" And what we find, well, you've seen it twice now, and here it is again: people predict that the friend they have now is the friend they'll have in 10 years, the vacation they most enjoy now is the one they'll enjoy in 10 years, and yet, people who are 10 years older all say, ""Eh, you know, that's really changed."" Does any of this matter? Is this just a form of mis-prediction that doesn't have consequences? No, it matters quite a bit, and I'll give you an example of why. It bedevils our decision-making in important ways. Bring to mind right now for yourself your favorite musician today and your favorite musician 10 years ago. I put mine up on the screen to help you along. Now we asked people to predict for us, to tell us how much money they would pay right now to see their current favorite musician perform in concert 10 years from now, and on average, people said they would pay 129 dollars for that ticket. And yet, when we asked them how much they would pay to see the person who was their favorite 10 years ago perform today, they say only 80 dollars. Now, in a perfectly rational world, these should be the same number, but we overpay for the opportunity to indulge our current preferences because we overestimate their stability. Why does this happen? We're not entirely sure, but it probably has to do with the ease of remembering versus the difficulty of imagining. Most of us can remember who we were 10 years ago, but we find it hard to imagine who we're going to be, and then we mistakenly think that because it's hard to imagine, it's not likely to happen. Sorry, when people say ""I can't imagine that,"" they're usually talking about their own lack of imagination, and not about the unlikelihood of the event that they're describing. The bottom line is, time is a powerful force. It transforms our preferences. It reshapes our values. It alters our personalities. We seem to appreciate this fact, but only in retrospect. Only when we look backwards do we realize how much change happens in a decade. It's as if, for most of us, the present is a magic time. It's a watershed on the timeline. It's the moment at which we finally become ourselves. Human beings are works in progress that mistakenly think they're finished. The person you are right now is as transient, as fleeting and as temporary as all the people you've ever been. The one constant in our life is change. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們人生的每一階段所做的決定都將深深影響我們未來的樣貌。但當我們成為那樣的人時，卻不總是對自己過去的決定感到開心。所以年輕人花大錢除去年少時花大錢刺的青；中年人急著與年輕時急著結婚的對象離婚；年紀大時又想減去中年時花大功夫囤積起的脂肪。如此周而復始。身為一位心理學家，我著迷的問題是：為什麼我們做的決定往往以後都會後悔？ 我想其中一個原因──我會試著說服大家──就是我們對於時間的力量有著徹底的誤解。各位都知道改變的速度會隨著年紀增長變慢。小孩子以分鐘為單位變化，但大人卻以年為單位變化。但人生那神奇的一刻叫什麼？改變的速度突然從飛速變龜速的那一刻？是在青少年時期嗎？中年？老年？對很多人來說，答案就是「現在」。不管「現在」是生命中哪一階段。我今天想說服各位的是，所有人都身在一種錯覺中。認為我們的個人歷史都到了終點；認為我們就在剛剛那瞬間成為了命中註定的樣子，且一輩子將會就是這樣不變了。 我用數據來支持我的論點。這項研究是關於人們價值觀隨著時間的改變。這三種價值觀人人都有。但你大概知道，隨著年齡增長，這些價值觀的比重會變。怎麼變化呢？我們問了上千人。請一半的人預測接下來十年，他們的價值觀會有多少改變，請另一半的人說過去十年，他們的價值觀改變多少。這讓我們能做出很有意思的分析，因為這可以比較一個 18 歲的人所做的預測以及 28 歲的人對過去的觀察，並對各年齡層都如此分析。 我們的發現如下：首先，各位是對的，改變速度的確隨年齡增長變慢，但接下來各位錯了，改變速度遠比我們想像中快。我們數據中的每一個年齡，從 18 到 68 歲，大家都大大低估了接下來十年會經歷的改變有多少。我們稱之為「歷史終結錯覺」。讓我說明這會影響的範圍。兩條線連起來，你看到的是 18 歲的人對改變的預期跟 50 歲的人真正經歷的改變一樣。 不只有價值觀，還有許多事也一樣。舉例來說，個性。很多人都知道心理學家現在聲稱有五大性格特質：情緒不穩定性、經驗開放性、友善性、外向性、嚴謹性。再次地，我們請人預期接下來十年會有多少改變，以及過去十年經歷多少改變，我們發現，這個表會一直出現，因為再次地，改變的速度的確隨年齡增長而變慢，但在每一個年紀，人們都低估了接下來的十年他們的個性會有多少改變。 不只是短暫的東西，像價值觀、個性等，還可以問問人們的好惡，基本的喜好。舉例來說，講出摯友的名字、最喜歡的假期是怎樣、最喜歡的嗜好、最愛的音樂類型等。這些東西人人都說得出。我們問一半的人：「你覺得這些東西十年後會改變嗎？」並問另一半的人：「這些問題的答案跟十年前一樣嗎？」同樣的圖出現兩次了，我們發現，再來看一次：人們預測他們現在的朋友，十年後一樣會是好朋友、他們現在最愛的假期，十年後依然會喜歡。而那些年紀大上十歲的人說「唉，都跟以前不一樣。」 那這很重要嗎？這只是某種形式的錯估，且不會有任何影響？不，這其實影響很大，我來舉例說明。這讓我們做決定時變得很困難。現在想想你現在最喜歡的音樂人以及十年前最愛的音樂人。我將自己的答案放上來幫助各位思考。現在，我們請人預估並告訴我們，他們現在願意付多少錢去看他們目前最愛的音樂人十年後的演唱會。平均來說，答案是一張票願意花 129 美金。然而，當問到他們願意付多少錢去看他們十年前喜歡的音樂人現在的演唱會，他們的答案只有 80 美金。在一個完全理性的世界，這兩個答案應該要是相同的，但我們多付了錢去享受我們目前的喜好，因為我們高估了自己的穩定性。 為什麼會這樣？我們也無法完全確定，但這大概是因為回憶很容易而想像很困難。大多數人記得十年前自己的樣子，但卻很難想像未來的樣子，然後便錯誤地認為：因為很難想像，所以不太可能發生。抱歉，當有人說「我無法想像那會是怎樣」時，通常都是在說自己缺乏想像力，而不是他們所形容的事件真的有多不可能發生。 重點是，時間是很強大的力量。它轉變我們的好惡、重塑我們的價值、改變我們的個性。我們似乎認同這個事實，但僅在回顧的時候如此。只有當我們回顧時才會發現十年之間有多少改變，就好像對我們大多數人來說當下是個很神奇的時間。這是時間線的分水嶺。就在這一刻，我們終於成為自己。人類不斷變化，卻誤以為自己已經不會再改變。你現在的樣子是短暫、轉瞬即逝的，就如你過去的自己一樣。人生唯一不變的，就是不斷改變。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
