Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_gross_why_gun_violence_can_t_be_our_new_normal	"OK, so, confession: I've always been weirdly obsessed with advertising. I remember watching Saturday morning cartoons, paying more attention to the commercials than to the shows, trying to figure out how they were trying to get inside my head. Ultimately, that led me to my dream job. I became a partner at a big New York ad agency. But then, all of that suddenly changed on February 23, 1997, when my little brother Matt was shot in the head in a shooting that happened on the observation deck of the Empire State Building. Suddenly, my family was thrown into the middle of a nightmare, being told that my brother was going to die, actually being given the opportunity to say goodbye to him, then several emergency brain surgeries and now what's amounted, for Matt, to a lifetime spent courageously recovering from a traumatic brain injury. He is definitely my hero. But as much as (Applause) — yeah, deserves it — (Applause) But as much as this tragedy was a nightmare for my family, I often think about how much worse it could have been; in fact, how much worse it is for the 90 families every day who aren't as fortunate, who lose loved ones — brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, parents. They don't all make national headlines. In fact, most of them don't. They go largely unnoticed, in a nation that's kind of come to accept a disgraceful national epidemic as some kind of new normal. So I quit my job in advertising to try and do something about this disgraceful national epidemic, because I came to realize that the challenges to preventing gun violence are actually the same ones that made me love advertising, which is to try to figure out how to engage people. Only instead of doing it to sell products, doing it to save lives. And that comes down to finding common ground, where what I want overlaps with what you want. And you might be surprised to learn, when it comes to gun violence, just how much common ground there is. Let's look, for example, at people who love to hunt, a sport enjoyed by millions across the US. It's a proud tradition. Families. In some places, the first day of hunting season is actually a school holiday. What do hunters want? Well, they want to hunt. They love their guns. They believe deeply in the Second Amendment right to own those guns. But that doesn't mean there isn't common ground. In fact, there's a lot of it, starting with the basic idea of keeping guns out of dangerous hands. This isn't about taking certain guns away from all people. It's about keeping all guns away from certain people, and it's the people that, it turns out, we all agree shouldn't have guns: convicted violent criminals, domestic abusers, the dangerously mentally ill. We can all appreciate how Brady background checks have been incredibly effective in keeping guns out of those dangerous hands. In 20 years, Brady background checks at federally licensed firearm dealers have blocked 2.4 million gun sales to those people that we all agree shouldn't have guns. (Applause) And whether you love guns or hate guns, you probably also appreciate that there shouldn't be thousands of gun sales every day at guns shows or online without those Brady background checks, just like there shouldn't be two lines to get on an airplane — one with security and one with no security. And — (Applause) And the numbers show the overwhelming agreement among the American public: 90 percent of Americans support expanding Brady background checks to all gun sales — including 90 percent of Republicans, more than 80 percent of gun owners, more than 70 percent of NRA members. This is not a controversial idea. In fact, only six percent of the American public disagrees. That's about the percentage of the American public that believes the moon landing was a fake. (Laughter) And it's also about the percentage that believes the government is putting mind-controlling technology in our TV broadcast signals. That's the extent to which we agree about background checks. But what about the 300 million guns already out there in homes across America? Well first, it's important to realize that those guns are mostly in the hands and homes of decent, law-abiding people like you and me, who want what we all want — including keeping our families safe. In fact, that's why more and more people are choosing to own guns. Ten years ago, 42 percent of the American public believed — incorrectly — that a gun makes your home safer. Today, that number is 63 percent. Why? I kind of hate to say it, because it gets to the dark underbelly of advertising, which is if you tell a big enough lie enough times, eventually that lie becomes the truth. And that's exactly what's happened here. The corporate gun lobby has spent billions of dollars blocking the CDC from doing research into the public health epidemic of gun violence; blocking pediatricians from talking to parents about the dangers of guns in the home; blocking smart-gun technology and other technology that would prevent kids from firing parents' guns and would save lives. They're desperate to hide the truth, because they view the truth as a threat to their bottom line. And every day, people are dying as a result. And a lot of those people are children. Every day in the US, nine kids are just shot unintentionally. 900 children and teens take their own lives every year. And here's the thing: they're almost all with a parent's gun. Even two-thirds of school shootings happen with a gun taken from the home, including the terrible tragedy at Sandy Hook. I meet so many of these parents; it's the most heartbreaking part of my job. These are not bad people. They're just living with the unimaginable consequences of a very bad decision, made based on very bad information that was put into their minds by very bad people, who know good and well the misery that they're causing, but just don't care. And the result is a nightmare — not only for families like mine, but for, really, at the end of the day, all of us. But I'm not here to talk about the nightmare of gun violence. I'm here to talk about our dream, and it's a dream we all share, which is the dream of a better, safer, future. For my organization, for the Brady Campaign, that dream is reflected in the bold goal to cut the number of gun deaths in the US in half by 2025. And I hope to leave all of you here tonight with a strong sense of exactly why that dream is so absolutely within reach. Because folks, for every great movement around the world, there's a moment where you can look back and say, ""That's when things really started to change."" And I'm here to say that for the movement to end gun violence in America, that moment is here. (Applause) We are so clearly at a tipping point, because the American public has come together by the millions like never before, based on that common ground, to say, ""Enough."" Enough of the mass shootings in malls and movie theaters and churches and schools. Enough of the daily terror of gun violence in homes and streets that's claimed the lives of women and young black men in staggering proportions. Enough of easy access to guns by the people that we all agree shouldn't have them. And enough of a small group of craven politicians putting the interests of the corporate gun lobby ahead of the people they have been elected to represent. Enough. (Applause) And the really exciting thing is, it's not just the usual suspects like me that are saying it anymore. It's so much bigger than that. And if you want proof, let's start where most conversations in the US seem to start — with Kim Kardashian. (Laughter) And here's the thing: it's not really a joke. I mean, think about when issues change. It's when they go from being political and advocacy issues to being part of pop culture, voices coming from everywhere, celebrities using their platforms, musicians, athletes. The NBA has come forward. Conservative pundits that you never would have imagined have come forward. There's real cultural change — I even hear there's a TED Talk about it this year. That's the extent to which this cultural change is happening. And yes, Kim Kardashian has made an unsolicited passionate appeal to her 35 million Twitter followers for expanded background checks. Let's look at the political elections that are heating up. This used to be the classic third-rail issue for Democrats. Couldn't run from it fast enough. Now candidates are running on it. Some are being forced to reverse very bad positions they defended very comfortably, until very recently. For somebody like me, watching people wave around their negative NRA ratings — it's almost surreal to watch. We're still outfunded, yes, by the corporate gun lobby, and ultimately that needs to change. But you know what? We're smarter and we're scrappier, and we have the truth on our side. And we're on offense. You know, they say that the Internet democratizes information. Social media and some of the organizing tools that plug into it have democratized activism. It's allowed us to show what 90 percent support really looks like. Sometimes I think of it — you know, we're converging and attacking instantly by the millions, kind of like white blood cells. It's enabled us to start to really close — and this is the bottom line — close that disgraceful disconnect between what the American public wants and what our elected leaders are doing about it. Until recently, the narrative in Congress was that calls from the other side, from that six percent, outnumbered calls from our side 10 to one. We're flipping that narrative on its head. After that recent terrible tragedy in San Bernardino, we jammed Congressional switchboards. We put 15,000 calls into Congress in 24 hours. And you know what? We got a vote on a bill that nobody thought was going to see the light of day anytime soon. We're seeing real movement to repeal some of the most evil, ugly gun lobby legislation passed over the last dark decade. The stranglehold of the gun lobby is clearly being broken. We've seen President Obama's historic executive actions. They don't go all the way, but they are going to save lives, because they expand Brady background checks to thousands of gun sales that didn't have them previously. And we're marching across the country — we're not just waiting for Congress to act; that would almost be the definition of insanity. We're marching across the country, state by state, marriage-equality style. And you know what? We're winning. Congress is almost always the last to wake up and realize that it's on the wrong side of history. And when they do, it's always because the American public shakes them. And that's exactly what we're doing right now, as we're in this tipping point. You know, recently I was flying cross-country to give a speech to a large group like this, although far less intimidating, and the woman sitting next to me happened to be binge-watching one of my all-time favorite TV shows, ""Mad Men,"" a period TV show about advertising in the 1960s. And as I was trying to think about how to end my remarks, I'd glance up at her screen every now and then, and it seemed that every time I did, I'd see somebody smoking in an office or around children or while pregnant or drinking and driving or driving without seat belts or sexually harassing a coworker. And ultimately it dawned on me: what tremendous inspiration to those of us who have this dream to end gun violence. I mean, think about how much the world has changed in a relatively short period of time, how all those behaviors that were once considered commonplace or normal — some even glamorous or sexy — have become stigmatized in just a generation or two, once they became conversations about our common ground. That is the magnitude of the change we have the potential to create around gun violence. And that's my dream, that maybe someday, some period TV show will depict the terrible nightmare of gun violence, and a future generation of children might only be able to imagine how terrible it must have been. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	好的 首先我要坦承我對廣告一直有著異乎尋常的著迷我記得小時候在星期六早上看卡通時我花在廣告上的注意力比真正的節目還要多我試著弄明白廣告是怎麼把信息植入我腦中的而這一興趣最終將我帶向了我的我成了紐約一間大型廣告公司的合夥人 但在1997年2月23號一夕之間風雲變色那天我的弟弟馬特在帝國大廈觀景台的槍擊案中被射中頭部霎時 我們全家掉入了無底的噩夢我們被告知我的弟弟將要死去並讓我們向他告別接著在經歷了幾場緊急的腦部手術後馬特之後的一生都得和嚴重腦部創傷纏鬥他絕對是我的英雄 但當 (掌聲)是的 他值得我們尊敬 (掌聲) 但即便我們家遇到這種悲劇我卻時常想著這情況原本也許會更糟事實上 每天都有90個家庭會遭逢這樣的不幸他們失去摯愛的親人兄弟姊妹 妻兒老小這樣的悲劇不會登上全國新聞或者說 大多數情況下得不到關注他們的不幸常常被忽視這個國家已經將這件可恥的慘劇視為不足為奇的常態 所以我辭了廣告的工作試著對這不名譽的全國性瘟疫做點什麼因為我發覺杜絕槍械暴力所帶來的挑戰正如同我所鍾愛的廣告都是在找出如何感染他人差別是廣告賣的是商品我們賣的是救命我要找的是共通點也就是我想要的和你想要的有所重疊你可能會訝異，講到槍械暴力我們有著眾多共同的想法 舉個例子，對於數百萬的國民打獵是個大家喜愛的休閒運動打獵是光榮的家族傳統有些地方打獵季的第一天學生可以放假獵人們要的是什麼?他們要的是能打獵，他們喜愛他們的槍他們深深相信第二修正案給他們擁槍的權力但這並不代表我和他們的想法毫無重疊 事實上，多如牛毛從避免槍枝落入有心人士手中的基本概念開始講起這並不代表把槍從所有人手上奪走而只是針對特定人士我們對誰不該擁槍也有共識定讞的暴力份子、家暴者嚴重心理疾病患者我們感謝布雷迪背景調查法有效的防止槍枝落入特定人士手中20年內，布雷迪背景調查法從聯邦許可的槍枝經銷商攔截2400萬筆我們都不能接受的槍枝交易 (掌聲) 不論你喜不喜歡槍，都可能不會希望每天有數千支槍從槍展或網購賣給那些未經背景審查的人就像搭飛機不該有兩條線一條給檢查過的人，另一條則否而... (掌聲) 而統計數字也表現了美國大眾壓倒性的贊成:90%贊成將布雷迪背景調查法擴展到任何形式的槍枝買賣—包含了90%共和黨人，過80%的擁槍者過70%美國全國步槍協會會員這個想法並非爭論議題只有6%的美國人反對就大概跟認為登陸月球是假的的人數差不多 (笑聲) 也跟認為政府在電視訊號加入洗腦技術的人數差不多這就是我們對背景調查的認同程度 那麼那3億支已經流入市面的槍呢?首先我們必須知道那些槍多數都在奉公守法的好公民就像我們的手中我們用槍來保衛家人安全這也是越來越多人選擇買槍的原因10 年前，42% 的美國人認為——錯誤的認為—有槍等於安全今天，這個數字成長到 63% 為什麼?我不怎麼想這麼說這是因為廣告的黑暗效能如果你講一個謊話夠多次它最終也會積非成是而這件事正在發生軍火商花了數十億美元阻止疾病管制署進行槍枝暴力研究；阻止小兒科醫師跟家長講有槍在家對小孩的危險性；阻止能夠防止小孩用家長的槍、並可以拯救生命的智慧槍枝科技他們費盡心思隱瞞事實因為事實威脅到了他們的底線 也是因此，每一天都有人被槍殺他們多數都是小孩在美國，每天有9名孩童莫名其妙被殺每年有900名小孩或青少年舉槍自盡而且，他們多半用的是家長的槍甚至二分之三的校園射擊案的凶槍都是家裡帶來的這包含了桑迪·胡克小學槍擊案那場悲劇我遇過太多受害者家長—這是我工作最令人心碎的部分—他們也沒殺人放火只是受到由一群惡人通過錯誤知識所做出的爛決定帶來的意外衝擊那群惡人知道他們造成的悲劇但卻毫不在乎而結果就是這場夢魘不只像我這樣的家庭而是最終，大家都會受難 我不是來用槍枝暴力恐嚇大家的我是來講一個大家都有的憧憬一個更安全美好的未來為了我的機構，也為了布雷德運動這個夢想將反映在2025年美國槍枝致死數減半的目標上而今晚我將讓你了解這個夢想是多麼的垂手可得因為大家，世界歷史裡的每個偉大改變都有一刻能讓你回首並說「事情從那刻開始不同。」我要說對於停止美國槍枝暴力那一刻就是現在 (掌聲) 我們很明顯的站在轉捩點美國大眾前所未有的團結大家站在相同的立場並說「夠了！」受夠了商場或電影院或教堂或學校的大規模槍擊案受夠了每天在街角巷弄奪走婦女和黑人少年的槍枝暴力受夠了那些不該有槍的人那麼容易的就買到槍受夠了少數沒擔當的政客背棄他的選民並向軍火利益靠攏夠了 (掌聲) 令人振奮的是，不再只有像我這種人如此主張實際人數超乎想像如果你要證明就從美國最能挑起議題的人開始我是指 金·卡戴珊 (笑聲) 然而 事實上這不是一個玩笑我指 想一下黨問題改變後這是黨他們把政治與宣傳問題流行化名人用他們的平台 音樂家 運動員聲音從四面八方來NBA聯盟已經出面你永遠想不到的保守派人士已經出面真正的文化變革已經出現我甚至聽到今年有個TED演講於此有關這是文化變革正在發生的跡象是的 金·卡戴珊向她三千五百萬粉絲迫切呼籲購買槍枝必須有背景調查的重要性 讓我們看看時下正熱的大選這曾經是民主黨人的經典三軌困境大家都恨不得逃之夭夭現在候選人們正在面對它有些人被強迫著改變那些直到最近他們都一味支持的角度有一些像我一樣的人看著人們揮舞著他們的負面NRA評級看上去非常超現實因為有軍火業的獻金他們仍然比我們更有資源但最終那需要被改變但你知道我們更聰明 我們更有鬥志 我們站在真理這一邊還有我們處在進攻的位置上 你知道 他們說網絡可以將信息變得更加民主社交媒體和隨其而來的組織應用程式讓活動變得更加民主我們可以展現九成的支持度有時 我在想你知道，我们會聚集起來並瞬間以百萬的數量來攻擊有點像白血球它讓我們真正開始連結 從根本上連結那個可恥的斷層美國人民的民意和他們選出的政客的作為的斷層 直到最近國會的立場一直站在百分之六的那邊是我們的十分之一我們正在扭轉局勢在最近發生在聖貝爾納蒂諾的可怕悲劇之後我們打爆了國會的電話我們在24小時裡給國會打了15000個電話然而你知道嗎我們通過了一項法案一項沒有任何人看好的法案我們看到過去十年因為金錢關說而通過的那些槍枝惡法逐一被取消遊說不再像過去這樣易如反掌我們看見奧巴馬總統歷史性的行政命令或許不很徹底但已經足夠拯救某些生命布萊德利背景調查將強制落實到數以千計的槍枝交易當中我們沒有在等待國會有所作為我們在全國遊行 儘管那很瘋狂我們要走遍全國一個州接著另一個州 跟婚姻平權一樣 你知道嗎？我們正在贏國會總是那最後一個意識到它們正站在歷史的對面它們需要美國社會的起來推動那就是我們在做的事情當我們處在這樣一個臨界點的時候 最近我為了巡迴演講飛遍全國雖然我的聽眾沒有今天這麼嚇人飛機上 我身邊的女士瘋狂看著我也很喜歡的節目《廣告狂人》一個有關六〇年代廣告業的電視節目當我在想要怎樣結束我的演說時我不時抬頭看看她的螢幕而每當我這麼做時螢幕裡不時有人在辦公室或在孩子面前吸煙就是有孕婦酒後駕駛開車不繫安全帶、辦公室性騷擾 最終我恍然大悟這對我們這些急迫想要改革槍枝文化的人是多大的鼓勵想想看這個世界在這短短幾年裡改變了多少那些大家曾經習以為常甚至覺得優雅或性感的行為在短短一兩代人的時間裡變得不可想像只要通過對話，尋找共識就能把改變槍枝暴力文化的可能性變得無限大 這就是我的夢想或許在未來的某一天某些古裝劇會描繪恐怖的槍械文化而我們的下一代只能想像那曾經是怎樣恐怖的夢魘 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝 （掌聲）
