Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_pallotta_the_dream_we_haven_t_dared_to_dream	"When I think about dreams, like many of you, I think about this picture. I was eight when I watched Neil Armstrong step off the Lunar Module onto the surface of the Moon. I had never seen anything like it before, and I've never seen anything like it since. We got to the Moon for one simple reason: John Kennedy committed us to a deadline. And in the absence of that deadline, we would still be dreaming about it. Leonard Bernstein said two things are necessary for great achievement: a plan and not quite enough time. (Laughter) Deadlines and commitments are the great and fading lessons of Apollo. And they are what give the word ""moonshot"" its meaning. And our world is in desperate need of political leaders willing to set bold deadlines for the achievement of daring dreams on the scale of Apollo again. When I think about dreams, I think about the drag queens of LA and Stonewall and millions of other people risking everything to come out when that was really dangerous, and of this picture of the White House lit up in rainbow colors, yes — (Applause) — celebrating America's gay and lesbian citizens' right to marry. It is a picture that in my wildest dreams I could never have imagined when I was 18 and figuring out that I was gay and feeling estranged from my country and my dreams because of it. I think about this picture of my family that I never dreamed I could ever have — (Applause) — and of our children holding this headline I never dreamed could ever be printed about the Supreme Court ruling. We need more of the courage of drag queens and astronauts. (Laughter) (Applause) But I want to talk about the need for us to dream in more than one dimension, because there was something about Apollo that I didn't know when I was 8, and something about organizing that the rainbow colors over. Of the 30 astronauts in the original Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs, only seven marriages survived. Those iconic images of the astronauts bouncing on the Moon obscure the alcoholism and depression on Earth. Thomas Merton, the Trappist monk, asked during the time of Apollo, ""What can we gain by sailing to the moon if we are not able to cross the abyss that separates us from ourselves?"" And what can we gain by the right to marry if we are not able to cross the acrimony and emotional distance that so often separates us from our love? And not just in marriage. I have seen the most hurtful, destructive, tragic infighting in LGBT and AIDS and breast cancer and non-profit activism, all in the name of love. Thomas Merton also wrote about wars among saints and that ""there is a pervasive form of contemporary violence to which the idealist most easily succumbs: activism and overwork. The frenzy of our activism neutralizes our work for peace. It destroys our own inner capacity for peace."" Too often our dreams become these compartmentalized fixations on some future that destroy our ability to be present for our lives right now. Our dreams of a better life for some future humanity or some other humanity in another country alienate us from the beautiful human beings sitting next to us at this very moment. Well, that's just the price of progress, we say. You can go to the Moon or you can have stability in your family life. And we can't conceive of dreaming in both dimensions at the same time. And we don't set the bar much higher than stability when it comes to our emotional life. Which is why our technology for talking to one another has gone vertical, our ability to listen and understand one another has gone nowhere. Our access to information is through the roof, our access to joy, grounded. But this idea, that our present and our future are mutually exclusive, that to fulfill our potential for doing we have to surrender our profound potential for being, that the number of transistors on a circuit can be doubled and doubled, but our capacity for compassion and humanity and serenity and love is somehow limited is a false and suffocating choice. Now, I'm not suggesting simply the uninspiring idea of more work-life balance. What good is it for me to spend more time with my kids at home if my mind is always somewhere else while I'm doing it? I'm not even talking about mindfulness. Mindfulness is all of a sudden becoming a tool for improving productivity. (Laughter) Right? I'm talking about dreaming as boldly in the dimension of our being as we do about industry and technology. I'm talking about an audacious authenticity that allows us to cry with one another, a heroic humility that allows us to remove our masks and be real. It is our inability to be with one another, our fear of crying with one another, that gives rise to so many of the problems we are frantically trying to solve in the first place, from Congressional gridlock to economic inhumanity. (Applause) I'm talking about what Jonas Salk called an Epoch B, a new epoch in which we become as excited about and curious about and scientific about the development of our humanity as we are about the development of our technology. We should not shrink from this opportunity simply because we don't really understand it. There was a time when we didn't understand space. Or because we're more used to technology and activism. That is the very definition of being stuck in a comfort zone. We are now very comfortable imagining unimaginable technological achievement. In 2016, it is the dimension of our being itself that cries out for its fair share of our imagination. Now, we're all here to dream, but maybe if we're honest about it, each of us chasing our own dream. You know, looking at the name tags to see who can help me with my dream, sometimes looking right through one another's humanity. I can't be bothered with you right now. I have an idea for saving the world. Right? (Laughter) Years ago, once upon a time, I had this beautiful company that created these long journeys for heroic civic engagement. And we had this mantra: ""Human. Kind. Be Both."" And we encouraged people to experiment outrageously with kindness. Like, ""Go help everybody set up their tents."" And there were a lot of tents. (Laughter) ""Go buy everybody Popsicles."" ""Go help people fix their flat tires even though you know the dinner line is going to get longer."" And people really took us up on this, so much so that if you got a flat tire on the AIDS ride, you had trouble fixing it, because there were so many people there asking you if you needed help. For a few days, for tens of thousands of people, we created these worlds that everybody said were the way they wish the world could always be. What if we experimented with creating that kind of world these next few days? And instead of going up to someone and asking them, ""What do you do?"" ask them, ""So what are your dreams?"" or ""What are your broken dreams?"" You know, ""TED."" Tend to Each other's Dreams. (Applause) Maybe it's ""I want to stay sober"" or ""I want to build a tree house with my kid."" You know, instead of going up to the person everybody wants to meet, go up to the person who is all alone and ask them if they want to grab a cup of coffee. I think what we fear most is that we will be denied the opportunity to fulfill our true potential, that we are born to dream and we might die without ever having the chance. Imagine living in a world where we simply recognize that deep, existential fear in one another and love one another boldly because we know that to be human is to live with that fear. It's time for us to dream in multiple dimensions simultaneously, and somewhere that transcends all of the wondrous things we can and will and must do lies the domain of all the unbelievable things we could be. It's time we set foot into that dimension and came out about the fact that we have dreams there, too. If the Moon could dream, I think that would be its dream for us. It's an honor to be with you. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	每當我想到夢想跟很多人一樣，我會想到這張照片。那年我八歲，看到尼爾．阿姆斯壯從登月艙出來，踏上月球表面。那是一個空前絕後的場景。 我們登上了月球只爲一個簡單的原因：約翰．甘迺迪對我們承諾了最後期限。如果沒有這樣一個期限，我們至今都還在做登月美夢。倫納德．伯恩斯坦曾經説過偉大的成就，有兩個必要條件：一是計劃，二是不太足夠的時間。 （笑聲） 最後期限和承諾是阿波羅計劃留給我們寶貴卻漸漸被淡忘的課程。是它們賦予了「登月任務」獨特的意義。當今世界非常需要能夠設定大膽期限的政治領袖，來實現能媲美阿波羅登月計劃的新夢想。 每當我想到夢想，我會想到洛杉磯和石牆酒吧的變裝皇后們，以及那些數以百萬,不顧一切危險勇敢站出來的人們。也會想到這張白宮亮起彩虹旗的照片，是的， （掌聲） 慶祝美國同性戀的婚姻合法化。我不敢奢望的夢想，竟有實現的一天。那年我十八歲，因意識到了自己是一個男同性戀，而感覺到自己被國家拋棄，覺得自己離夢想越來越遠。 我從沒想過我可以有這樣一張夢想中的家庭照。 （掌聲） 我們的孩子拿著這篇報刊頭條，我做夢也沒想到，最高法院的裁決就這樣出現在這份頭條裡。 我們需要更多變裝皇后和宇航員那樣的勇氣。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 但是我想以不同的角度，討論我們需要夢想的必要性。因為八歲的我，並不知道阿波羅計劃背後的故事，也不瞭解彩虹旗背後的艱辛。30 位水星、雙子星和阿波羅先遣計劃的宇航員中，只有七段婚姻僥幸存活。那些在月球表面彈跳的代表性畫面，模糊了地球上那些宇航員酗酒和患憂鬱症的現實。 托馬斯．默頓—特拉普派的修士，在阿波羅計劃期間提問過，「如果我們不能克服人與人之間的鴻溝，航行到月球對我們又有何益處？」如果我們無法跨越言語的刻薄和情感的疏離，即使有了結婚的權利我們又如何能從中獲益？不僅僅在婚姻方面。我曾經見過最傷人的最破壞性的，最慘烈的內訌發生在同性戀與愛滋病患者之間，發生在乳癌患者和非盈利組織之中，而且這些都被冠以愛的名義。 托馬斯．默頓也曾寫過聖人之間的戰爭，並說道：「讓理想主義者最容易屈服的當代暴力形式就是：行動主義和工作過勞。行動主義的狂熱抵消了我們爲和平的努力。它破壞我們内心對和平的嚮往。」我們的夢想往往太過定焦於未來，讓我們失去了活在當下的能力。當我們爲下一代或其他國家的人們努力創造美好未來的同時，我們卻疏遠了此時此刻坐在我們身邊的美好人們。 好吧，我們說這就是進步的代價。你可以登上月球，或者選擇穩定的家庭生活。魚和熊掌不可兼得。談到感情生活的時候，我們也不敢奢望太多，簡單穩定就好。這就是為什麼，幫助我們與他人交流的科技呈垂直式的線性成長，而我們傾聽和理解他人的能力，卻停滯不前；我們獲取資訊的能力突飛猛進，但獲得快樂的能力，卻在原地踏步。但是，認爲現在和未來不可兼得，如果要發揮成大事的的潛能，就要放棄實現生命本質的無窮潛力，這個觀點是錯誤的。電路版上的電晶體可以倍數增長，但是我們的同情心、人道、平常心和愛的能力，卻因此受限無法發揮。這是自掘墳墓的選擇。 我不是陳腔濫調地建議你維持工作、生活的平衡。如果心不在焉，那花更多的時間，待在家陪孩子也沒有意義。我現在也不是在講專注覺察。不知什麽時候，專注覺察變成了提高效率的代名詞。 （笑聲） 是吧？ 我現在講的是築夢，就像我們勇於在工業與科技中築夢一樣，我們也要在真我的本質裡，大膽築夢。我在討論一種無畏的真情，一種可以讓我們相擁大哭，一種可以讓我們摘下面具，活出真實的偉大人性。正因為我們無法與人溝通相處，我們害怕與人相擁哭泣，因此，造成了許多讓我們焦頭爛額的問題，比如國會裡的僵局和經濟問題。 （掌聲） 我談的是喬納斯．索爾克的 B 時代，在這個時代的我們，無論是對於科技的進步還是對於人性的發展都無比的激動、無比的好奇、無比的理性。 我們不能因爲不理解它，而畏怯這樣的機會。曾經，我們也不瞭解太空。或是因為我們已經更習慣於科技和行動主義了。這只是說明了，我們擺脫不了舒適圈。我們現在很舒服地幻想不可思議的科技成就。而當今 2016 年，人類內在的真我，迫切需要我們多花點精力爲它築夢。 各位今天來這裡都是要追逐夢想的，如果我們彼此真誠以待，我們都可以追逐自己的夢想。當我們環顧周圍人的名牌，看有誰可以幫我完成夢想的時候，我們就有可能就忽略了名牌背後的那個靈魂。抱歉，我現在不想被打擾，我正在思考如何拯救世界。對吧？ （笑聲） 多年以前，我有一間公司，致力於推動公民參與社區活動。我們的宗旨是：人性與仁慈，二者兼備。我們鼓勵大家積極行善，比如，「幫助其他人搭帳篷。」然後很多帳篷就搭起來了。 （笑聲） 比如，「給每個人買一枝冰棒。」再比如，「幫助需要的人補胎，哪怕要花更多時間排隊等晚餐。」 人們還真的把我們的要求付諸行動。以至於如果你在愛滋宣傳活動上車胎爆了，你很難去修好它，因為太多的人在詢問你是否需要幫忙。 雖然活動只有幾天，但我們爲數萬名參與者，創造了他們理想中的烏托邦。如果在接下來的幾天中，我們進行打造烏托邦的實驗，結果會是如何呢？與其走到人們面前問道:「你是做什麽的？」何不問問他們 :「你的夢想是什麽？」或者 :「你未能實現的夢想是什麽？」你知道 TED 代表什麽嗎？關心每一個人的夢想。 （掌聲） 也許夢想是「我想要戒酒」或是「我想要爲我的孩子搭一間樹屋」與其想認識大家都想結交的有名人士，何不走向那些被冷落的人，問問他們是否想喝杯咖啡。 我想我們最害怕的是我們沒有機會去發揮真正的潛力，害怕對生來就要逐夢的我們，在走到生命的盡頭時，卻沒有機會實現我們的夢想。 想像住在一個世界裡，我們能理解彼此的恐懼，並彼此勇敢地相愛，因爲我們知道要得到人生的真諦，必須學會與這種恐懼共存。是時候讓我們同時從不同的角度一起夢想了，在那個超越我們所能完成美好事物的地方，在那個超乎想像的地方，讓我們成就所有不可思議的夢想。 是時候讓我們朝那新的方向去探索，並在那裏開始實現我們的夢想。如果月亮能夢想，我想它的夢想會跟我們一樣。很榮幸能跟大家共聚一堂。 非常感謝。 （鼓掌）
