Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_berkenstock_the_world_is_one_big_dataset_now_how_to_photograph_it	Five years ago, I was a Ph.D. student living two lives. In one, I used NASA supercomputers to design next-generation spacecraft, and in the other I was a data scientist looking for potential smugglers of sensitive nuclear technologies. As a data scientist, I did a lot of analyses, mostly of facilities, industrial facilities around the world. And I was always looking for a better canvas to tie these all together. And one day, I was thinking about how all data has a location, and I realized that the answer had been staring me in the face. Although I was a satellite engineer, I hadn't thought about using satellite imagery in my work. Now, like most of us, I'd been online, I'd see my house, so I thought, I'll hop in there and I'll start looking up some of these facilities. And what I found really surprised me. The pictures that I was finding were years out of date, and because of that, it had relatively little relevance to the work that I was doing today. But I was intrigued. I mean, satellite imagery is pretty amazing stuff. There are millions and millions of sensors surrounding us today, but there's still so much we don't know on a daily basis. How much oil is stored in all of China? How much corn is being produced? How many ships are in all of our world's ports? Now, in theory, all of these questions could be answered by imagery, but not if it's old. And if this data was so valuable, then how come I couldn't get my hands on more recent pictures? So the story begins over 50 years ago with the launch of the first generation of U.S. government photo reconnaissance satellites. And today, there's a handful of the great, great grandchildren of these early Cold War machines which are now operated by private companies and from which the vast majority of satellite imagery that you and I see on a daily basis comes. During this period, launching things into space, just the rocket to get the satellite up there, has cost hundreds of millions of dollars each, and that's created tremendous pressure to launch things infrequently and to make sure that when you do, you cram as much functionality in there as possible. All of this has only made satellites bigger and bigger and bigger and more expensive, now nearly a billion, with a b, dollars per copy. Because they are so expensive, there aren't very many of them. Because there aren't very many of them, the pictures that we see on a daily basis tend to be old. I think a lot of people actually understand this anecdotally, but in order to visualize just how sparsely our planet is collected, some friends and I put together a dataset of the 30 million pictures that have been gathered by these satellites between 2000 and 2010. As you can see in blue, huge areas of our world are barely seen, less than once a year, and even the areas that are seen most frequently, those in red, are seen at best once a quarter. Now as aerospace engineering grad students, this chart cried out to us as a challenge. Why do these things have to be so expensive? Does a single satellite really have to cost the equivalent of three 747 jumbo jets? Wasn't there a way to build a smaller, simpler, new satellite design that could enable more timely imaging? I realize that it does sound a little bit crazy that we were going to go out and just begin designing satellites, but fortunately we had help. In the late 1990s, a couple of professors proposed a concept for radically reducing the price of putting things in space. This was hitchhiking small satellites alongside much larger satellites. This dropped the cost of putting objects up there by over a factor of 100, and suddenly we could afford to experiment, to take a little bit of risk, and to realize a lot of innovation. And a new generation of engineers and scientists, mostly out of universities, began launching these very small, breadbox-sized satellites called CubeSats. And these were built with electronics obtained from RadioShack instead of Lockheed Martin. Now it was using the lessons learned from these early missions that my friends and I began a series of sketches of our own satellite design. And I can't remember a specific day where we made a conscious decision that we were actually going to go out and build these things, but once we got that idea in our minds of the world as a dataset, of being able to capture millions of data points on a daily basis describing the global economy, of being able to unearth billions of connections between them that had never before been found, it just seemed boring to go work on anything else. And so we moved into a cramped, windowless office in Palo Alto, and began working to take our design from the drawing board into the lab. The first major question we had to tackle was just how big to build this thing. In space, size drives cost, and we had worked with these very small, breadbox-sized satellites in school, but as we began to better understand the laws of physics, we found that the quality of pictures those satellites could take was very limited, because the laws of physics dictate that the best picture you can take through a telescope is a function of the diameter of that telescope, and these satellites had a very small, very constrained volume. And we found that the best picture we would have been able to get looked something like this. Although this was the low-cost option, quite frankly it was just too blurry to see the things that make satellite imagery valuable. So about three or four weeks later, we met a group of engineers randomly who had worked on the first private imaging satellite ever developed, and they told us that back in the 1970s, the U.S. government had found a powerful optimal tradeoff — that in taking pictures at right about one meter resolution, being able to see objects one meter in size, they had found that they could not just get very high-quality images, but get a lot of them at an affordable price. From our own computer simulations, we quickly found that one meter really was the minimum viable product to be able to see the drivers of our global economy, for the first time, being able to count the ships and cars and shipping containers and trucks that move around our world on a daily basis, while conveniently still not being able to see individuals. We had found our compromise. We would have to build something larger than the original breadbox, now more like a mini-fridge, but we still wouldn't have to build a pickup truck. So now we had our constraint. The laws of physics dictated the absolute minimum-sized telescope that we could build. What came next was making the rest of the satellite as small and as simple as possible, basically a flying telescope with four walls and a set of electronics smaller than a phone book that used less power than a 100 watt lightbulb. The big challenge became actually taking the pictures through that telescope. Traditional imaging satellites use a line scanner, similar to a Xerox machine, and as they traverse the Earth, they take pictures, scanning row by row by row to build the complete image. Now people use these because they get a lot of light, which means less of the noise you see in a low-cost cell phone image. The problem with them is they require very sophisticated pointing. You have to stay focused on a 50-centimeter target from over 600 miles away while moving at more than seven kilometers a second, which requires an awesome degree of complexity. So instead, we turned to a new generation of video sensors, originally created for use in night vision goggles. Instead of taking a single, high quality image, we could take a videostream of individually noisier frames, but then we could recombine all of those frames together into very high-quality images using sophisticated pixel processing techniques here on the ground, at a cost of one one hundredth a traditional system. And we applied this technique to many of the other systems on the satellite as well, and day by day, our design evolved from CAD to prototypes to production units. A few short weeks ago, we packed up SkySat 1, put our signatures on it, and waved goodbye for the last time on Earth. Today, it's sitting in its final launch configuration ready to blast off in a few short weeks. And soon, we'll turn our attention to launching a constellation of 24 or more of these satellites and beginning to build the scalable analytics that will allow us to unearth the insights in the petabytes of data we will collect. So why do all of this? Why build these satellites? Well, it turns out imaging satellites have a unique ability to provide global transparency, and providing that transparency on a timely basis is simply an idea whose time has come. We see ourselves as pioneers of a new frontier, and beyond economic data, unlocking the human story, moment by moment. For a data scientist that just happened to go to space camp as a kid, it just doesn't get much better than that. Thank you. (Applause)	我五年前還是個博士生過著兩種生活一個是用美國太空總署的超級電腦設計下一代的太空船另一個身分則是數據科學家找出誰有可能走私性能高的核能科技那作為一個數據科學家我做了不少的數據分析在設備方面像世界各地的工業設備我總是在尋找更好的畫面把落在各地的工業設備拍在一起有天突然靈機一動想到全部的數據不都有存放的地方瞬間發現答案早就在眼前了雖然我是衛星工程師卻從未想在工作中使用衛星成像 你們大都知道我常在線上我看得到我家，所以我就想我可以跳入這個領域，然後開始尋找這類的設備我對搜尋的結果感到訝異我所找到的圖片已經遠遠過時了也因為這樣過時的圖對我現今的工作毫無關聯卻引起我的好奇心用衛星拍出圖像是很酷的事今天有好幾百萬的感應器充斥在你我的周遭我們卻對每日的變動一無所知像中國蘊藏多少油?有多少穀物生產?今日全球有多少船駐入港口?理論上來講，這些問題可以看圖像回答但若用過時的可就難了倘若這數據很珍貴我怎會沒法子取得更多得近照呢? 所以要從 50 年前講起當美國政府發射出第一代衛星拍攝照片以利勘察今日到處可見這些早期冷戰留下來的機器現在都由私營企業經營也就是你我看到每日由衛星拍出的圖像在這期間，射東西到外太空像用火箭射出衛星到外太空每射出一次就要花好幾億壓力大到喘不過氣來所以久久才會射到外太空而且還要確保射時要盡一切塞進一堆功能這只讓衛星變得越來越來越大越來越貴現在都要十億美元了，每份都是億開頭的正因為它們超級貴所以數量不多也因為數量不多平常看到的照片都早就過時以久了 我想大家都聽得懂我再講什麼但為了能用想像得出地球的照片真是少得可憐我與朋友就開始集中數據集到三千萬張的照片都是在 2000-2010 年的衛星拍的那一大片藍色代表地球罕見的地方甚至一年也沒見過一次就算是最常看見的地方紅色代表至少一季見過一次身為航空航天工程學的研究生這圖表簡直觸動我每一根神經有必要那麼貴嗎?一顆衛星真得有必要貴到約 3 台波音 747 飛機合起來的價格嗎?難道就沒有方法建造更小、更簡單、更新穎的設計更有效率的拍出圖像嗎? 我知道這聽來像瘋了但我們決定要到外面亂闖只為了重新設計衛星好在我們有貴人在 1990 年末有幾位教授打膽提出讓衛星射到外大空更便宜的方案這些小衛星都是隨著較大的射出這大幅降低成本超過 100 倍突然間，研究變成負擔得起了冒一點風險就可成就更多的創新新一代的工程師和科學家大多大學畢業就開始射出小的像土司箱的人工衛星叫作CubeSats這些電子器件都取自無線電屋公司不是洛克西德公司的 接下來就是跟前人取經朋友跟我開始畫出一系列有關衛星的草圖記不得是哪一天不知是哪根蔥促使我們決心將這些草圖變成實體一旦那慾望跑進我們的腦海裡要將世界變成數據要能夠捕捉好幾百萬的數據點日日都能收到相關全球經濟的資料能夠接收到幾十億地球外的資訊而且是前所未聞的這麼一想要去做別的事情就沒勁了 所以我們就搬到帕羅奧圖城市又窄小又沒窗戶的辦公室開始將草圖上的設計搬進實驗室做出實體我們遇到第一大的問題就是要建造的有多大在外太空，尺寸越大價格越貴而我們在學校裡有做過像土司箱大小的衛星隨著對物理定律的了解加深發現由衛星拍出圖像的品質很有限因為物理定律名確指出要能拍出質感好的圖像跟望眼鏡的直徑有關但這些衛星都非常小容量也有限我們發現拍出最棒的圖像卻長這樣子雖然成本低但真得太模糊了這樣子衛星的優點都沒發揮出來所以約 3-4 個星期後偶遇一個團隊的工程師衛星首次傳送圖像就是他們打造的他們說 1970 年時美國政府有找到強而有力的方式拍出清晰圖像拍照時用 100 公分的解析度就能以同樣的尺寸拍到物體他們發現怎樣就是拍不出解析度高的圖像所以用能負擔的價格多拍幾張我們用電腦模擬迅速發現 100 公分小物體是可行的能夠見到全球經濟的驅動第一次我們能夠算出有多少船、車輛、運輸、貨櫃、卡車每天在全球運作雖然還不能夠很簡單的看清楚人我們也找到妥協的方法我們需要建造比原形吐司箱大小更大的東西看起來像個迷你冰箱還不到建造小貨車尺寸的地步現在出現另一個限制物理定律指出我們能建造出最小的望眼鏡尺寸 接下來的任務就是打造出越小越簡單的衛星越好基本上就是一個會飛的四面望眼鏡有著一組電子器材比一本電話簿還小用量低於100瓦燈泡挑戰接著變成能否順利拍下圖像?傳統衛星拍的圖像都用線掃描器就像一台影印機一樣然後它們就會橫越地球拍照每行每行的掃描以便建立完整的圖像現在人們都能用因為他們亮多了這意味著畫質清晰多了不像用廉價的手機拍照一樣的粗糙然而，又有問題出現了它們需要很精緻的數據點每秒能夠橫越超過七公里就能擁有很棒的解析度但離物體遠超過 600 英呎的地方卻只能聚焦物體的 50 公分所以我們轉向新一代的錄影感應器原本是要用於夜視眼鏡與其一次拍下高值圖像我們就用視訊流拍下一張張粗糙的圖像然後幫它們結成一體成為高質圖像使用的是精密的機器處理畫素就在這地上是原來成本的百分之一我們也使用這科技在別的衛星系統上我們的設計每篇都會做更換從電腦輔助設計軟體、原型到生產線 幾星期前我們製的衛星 SkySat 一號準備好了簽上我們的名字後就等著與地球拜拜今日它仍在它當初射出的位置準備在幾星期後射出很快的，我們的注意力轉到發射一群 24 台或更多的衛星開始提供數據分析讓我們看到地球外的視野用拍位元組收集而成 用意是什麼? 為何要製造這些衛星?因為用衛星傳送圖像才有辦法提供國際的透明度為此透明度提供有效的時間單位就是靈感的來源我們是自己為新領域的先驅經濟數據也時時刻刻為人類提供圖像作為數據科學家感覺就像是個小孩去了一趟外太空野營沒有什麼比這感到更棒了 謝謝 (掌聲)
