Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_pauly_the_ocean_s_shifting_baseline	"I'm going to speak about a tiny, little idea. And this is about shifting baseline. And because the idea can be explained in one minute, I will tell you three stories before to fill in the time. And the first story is about Charles Darwin, one of my heroes. And he was here, as you well know, in '35. And you'd think he was chasing finches, but he wasn't. He was actually collecting fish. And he described one of them as very ""common."" This was the sailfin grouper. A big fishery was run on it until the '80s. Now the fish is on the IUCN Red List. Now this story, we have heard it lots of times on Galapagos and other places, so there is nothing particular about it. But the point is, we still come to Galapagos. We still think it is pristine. The brochures still say it is untouched. So what happens here? The second story, also to illustrate another concept, is called shifting waistline. (Laughter) Because I was there in '71, studying a lagoon in West Africa. I was there because I grew up in Europe and I wanted later to work in Africa. And I thought I could blend in. And I got a big sunburn, and I was convinced that I was really not from there. This was my first sunburn. And the lagoon was surrounded by palm trees, as you can see, and a few mangrove. And it had tilapia about 20 centimeters, a species of tilapia called blackchin tilapia. And the fisheries for this tilapia sustained lots of fish and they had a good time and they earned more than average in Ghana. When I went there 27 years later, the fish had shrunk to half of their size. They were maturing at five centimeters. They had been pushed genetically. There were still fishes. They were still kind of happy. And the fish also were happy to be there. So nothing has changed, but everything has changed. My third little story is that I was an accomplice in the introduction of trawling in Southeast Asia. In the '70s — well, beginning in the '60s — Europe did lots of development projects. Fish development meant imposing on countries that had already 100,000 fishers to impose on them industrial fishing. And this boat, quite ugly, is called the Mutiara 4. And I went sailing on it, and we did surveys throughout the southern South China sea and especially the Java Sea. And what we caught, we didn't have words for it. What we caught, I know now, is the bottom of the sea. And 90 percent of our catch were sponges, other animals that are fixed on the bottom. And actually most of the fish, they are a little spot on the debris, the piles of debris, were coral reef fish. Essentially the bottom of the sea came onto the deck and then was thrown down. And these pictures are extraordinary because this transition is very rapid. Within a year, you do a survey and then commercial fishing begins. The bottom is transformed from, in this case, a hard bottom or soft coral into a muddy mess. This is a dead turtle. They were not eaten, they were thrown away because they were dead. And one time we caught a live one. It was not drowned yet. And then they wanted to kill it because it was good to eat. This mountain of debris is actually collected by fishers every time they go into an area that's never been fished. But it's not documented. We transform the world, but we don't remember it. We adjust our baseline to the new level, and we don't recall what was there. If you generalize this, something like this happens. You have on the y axis some good thing: biodiversity, numbers of orca, the greenness of your country, the water supply. And over time it changes — it changes because people do things, or naturally. Every generation will use the images that they got at the beginning of their conscious lives as a standard and will extrapolate forward. And the difference then, they perceive as a loss. But they don't perceive what happened before as a loss. You can have a succession of changes. At the end you want to sustain miserable leftovers. And that, to a large extent, is what we want to do now. We want to sustain things that are gone or things that are not the way they were. Now one should think this problem affected people certainly when in predatory societies, they killed animals and they didn't know they had done so after a few generations. Because, obviously, an animal that is very abundant, before it gets extinct, it becomes rare. So you don't lose abundant animals. You always lose rare animals. And therefore they're not perceived as a big loss. Over time, we concentrate on large animals, and in a sea that means the big fish. They become rarer because we fish them. Over time we have a few fish left and we think this is the baseline. And the question is, why do people accept this? Well because they don't know that it was different. And in fact, lots of people, scientists, will contest that it was really different. And they will contest this because the evidence presented in an earlier mode is not in the way they would like the evidence presented. For example, the anecdote that some present, as Captain so-and-so observed lots of fish in this area cannot be used or is usually not utilized by fishery scientists, because it's not ""scientific."" So you have a situation where people don't know the past, even though we live in literate societies, because they don't trust the sources of the past. And hence, the enormous role that a marine protected area can play. Because with marine protected areas, we actually recreate the past. We recreate the past that people cannot conceive because the baseline has shifted and is extremely low. That is for people who can see a marine protected area and who can benefit from the insight that it provides, which enables them to reset their baseline. How about the people who can't do that because they have no access — the people in the Midwest for example? There I think that the arts and film can perhaps fill the gap, and simulation. This is a simulation of Chesapeake Bay. There were gray whales in Chesapeake Bay a long time ago — 500 years ago. And you will have noticed that the hues and tones are like ""Avatar."" (Laughter) And if you think about ""Avatar,"" if you think of why people were so touched by it — never mind the Pocahontas story — why so touched by the imagery? Because it evokes something that in a sense has been lost. And so my recommendation, it's the only one I will provide, is for Cameron to do ""Avatar II"" underwater. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我將要談論一個極細微的想法也就是關於海洋基準線的改變因為這個想法可在一分鐘就講完所以我會先講三個故事來拖延時間第一個故事與我心目中的英雄達爾文有關如你們所知，1835年他在加拉帕戈斯群島進行研究你們以為他在追蹤雀類但事實並非如此其實他是在收集魚類有一個他紀錄為「常見」的物種帆鰭石斑（sailfin grouper）這種魚一直都是漁獲量大宗至少在 1980 年代以前現在，這種魚已被列在世界自然保護聯盟的瀕危物種紅色名單這個故事我們已經在加拉帕戈斯群島和其他地方聽過很多次所以沒什麼特別的但重點是，我們仍前往加拉帕戈斯群島我們仍然認為它是原始的旅遊折頁也說這裡的生態未曾改變所以到底發生什麼事了？ 第二個故事，也可以用來說明另一個概念叫做腰圍變化（大笑）我在 1971 年前往西非研究一個潟湖我會到那裡去是因為我在歐洲長大希望之後能到非洲工作我想我可以融入那個地方但我遭受嚴重的曬傷才明白原來自己並非來自那裡這是我第一次被曬傷 至於那個潟湖四周被棕櫚樹圍繞就像你們看到的，還有一些紅樹林潟湖裡有吳郭魚（非洲鯽魚）體長大約二十公分其中一種稱為黑頰非鯽這種非洲鯽魚漁業有段時期能維持大量捕撈，人們日子過的不錯他們收入高於迦納平均所得27 年後，我重訪當地卻發現這種魚的體型縮減了一半成魚的長度只有五公分牠們已受基因演化的推動而改變潟湖中仍有魚類人們仍快樂地捕魚魚也快樂地生活在那裡什麼也沒變但其實一切都不同了 第三個小故事是關於我如何變成將拖網引進東南亞的共犯在 70 年代，不，60 年代開始歐洲進行許多開發計畫例如漁業開發其實就是對於已有十萬漁民的國家施壓強迫他們進行工業化的捕漁方式這艘醜醜的船名為「慕蒂亞拉4號」我搭乘這艘船出海進行調查範圍涵蓋南中國海的南部特別是爪哇海我們對於當時所捕獲到的毫無概念而我現在知道我們所捕獲的其實是海洋底層我們撈到的東西有九成是海綿及其他附著於海底的動物事實上大多數魚類只佔這些殘渣的極小部份堆積如山的殘骸中有一些珊瑚礁魚類基本上這等於將海底搬上甲板然後隨意丟棄 這些圖片相當驚人因為轉變非常快你在一年內做了一項調查然後開始進行商業性捕魚海底開始發生改變以這裡來說，一片堅硬的海底或軟質珊瑚變成一灘爛泥這是一隻死去的海龜不是被捕食，而是因為已經死去便被丟棄有一次我們抓到一隻活的牠還沒被淹死人們想把美味的海龜殺來吃這些堆積如山的殘骸是由漁民收集的每次出海到尚未捕撈過的區域帶回來但從未被記錄下來 我們改變了世界但卻不記得這些事我們調整基準線到新的水平但我們不記得過去曾經存在什麼如果你將這些做個總結就會像這樣Y軸是一些正面的事情生物多樣性、虎鯨個數國家的綠化程度、水資源供給隨著時間推移情況發生改變因為人們理所當然的行為而改變每一代的人們會用那些他們有感知的生命初始時的印象作為基準然後向前推論將其中差異視為一項損失但人們並沒有意識到在損失以前發生什麼事你可以看到一個持續的變化到了最後你希望能保存那些所剩無幾的剩餘物種就大方向來說，這就是我們正想做的我們想保存已消失或不復原貌的事物 我們應該思考這個問題如何影響那些在獵食性社會的人他們捕獵動物而沒有意識到他們做了什麼對後幾個世代造成了什麼改變因為，很明顯的每個物種的數量總是相當龐大在牠們遭到滅絕變得稀有以前所以數量豐富的動物不會消失會消失的總是稀有動物所以人們也不會意識到這個巨大損失某一段時期我們將注意力放在大型動物在海洋中這意味著大型魚類大魚因我們的捕撈而越來越稀少不久後，海裡只剩一點點魚然後我們會以這個數量重訂基準線 但問題是為什麼人們可以接受這種觀點那是因為人們無法區分其中的差異事實上，很多人，尤其是科學家會爭論那差異是很大的他們會如此爭論是因為以早期模式提出的證據並不是他們希望的證據呈現方式例如有些軼事說船長某某人曾在這個區域觀察到大量魚類這樣的訊息無法被採用或通常不會被魚類科學家採用因為那並不「科學」所以現在的狀況是人們對過去毫無所知即使是生活在有文化的社會因為他們不信任過去的訊息來源 因此，在這裡海洋保護區的角色就顯得很重要一但有了海洋保護區我們可以重現過去重現人們無法想像的過去因為現在的基準線已經改變轉移到極低的標準這是為了讓可以看見海洋保護區的人們及藉由它提供的見識而獲益的人們使他們能重設他們的基準線 對於那些沒有機會接近保護區的人們例如住在美國中西部的人們呢？我認為透過藝術和電影或許可以彌補空缺甚至是模擬技術這是柴斯比克灣的模擬圖顯示灰鯨在很久很久以前曾經生活在那裡大約五百年前然後你會發現這個色彩與色調跟「阿凡達」的世界很像（大笑）讓我們想想「阿凡達」思考為何大家會對它深受感動即使故事像風中奇緣一樣為何人們看到這些景象還是如此感動因為那喚起了人們對已經失去的事物的感受所以我建議我唯一要提供的建議是請卡麥隆在水底拍阿凡達第二集 謝謝各位 （鼓掌）
