Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_kish_how_i_use_sonar_to_navigate_the_world	"(Clicking) I was born with bilateral retinoblastoma, retinal cancer. My right eye was removed at seven months of age. I was 13 months when they removed my left eye. The first thing I did upon awakening from that last surgery was to climb out of my crib and begin wandering around the intensive care nursery, probably looking for the one who did this to me. (Laughter) Evidently, wandering around the nursery was not a problem for me without eyes. The problem was getting caught. It's impressions about blindness that are far more threatening to blind people than the blindness itself. Think for a moment about your own impressions of blindness. Think about your reactions when I first came onto the stage, or the prospect of your own blindness, or a loved one going blind. The terror is incomprehensible to most of us, because blindness is thought to epitomize ignorance and unawareness, hapless exposure to the ravages of the dark unknown. How poetic. Fortunately for me, my parents were not poetic. They were pragmatic. They understood that ignorance and fear were but matters of the mind, and the mind is adaptable. They believed that I should grow up to enjoy the same freedoms and responsibilities as everyone else. In their own words, I would move out — which I did when I was 18 — I will pay taxes — thanks — (Laughter) — and they knew the difference between love and fear. Fear immobilizes us in the face of challenge. They knew that blindness would pose a significant challenge. I was not raised with fear. They put my freedom first before all else, because that is what love does. Now, moving forward, how do I manage today? The world is a much larger nursery. Fortunately, I have my trusty long cane, longer than the canes used by most blind people. I call it my freedom staff. It will keep me, for example, from making an undignified  departure from the stage. (Laughter) I do see that cliff edge. They warned us earlier that every imaginable mishap has occurred to speakers up here on the stage. I don't care to set a new precedent. But beyond that, many of you may have heard me clicking as I came onto the stage — (Clicking) — with my tongue. Those are flashes of sound that go out and reflect from surfaces all around me, just like a bat's sonar, and return to me with patterns,  with pieces of information, much as light does for you. And my brain, thanks to my parents, has been activated to form images in my visual cortex, which we now call the imaging system, from those patterns of information, much as your brain does. I call this process flash sonar. It is how I have learned to see through my blindness, to navigate my journey through the dark unknowns of my own challenges, which has earned me the moniker ""the remarkable Batman."" Now, Batman I will accept. Bats are cool. Batman is cool. But I was not raised to think of myself as in any way remarkable. I have always regarded myself much like anyone else who navigates the dark unknowns of their own challenges. Is that so remarkable? I do not use my eyes, I use my brain. Now, someone, somewhere, must think that's remarkable, or I wouldn't be up here, but let's consider this for a moment. Everyone out there who faces or who has ever faced a challenge, raise your hands. Whoosh. Okay. Lots of hands going up, a moment, let me do a head count. (Clicking) This will take a while. (Clicking) (Laughter) Okay, lots of hands in the air. Keep them up. I have an idea. Those of you who use your brains to navigate these challenges, put your hands down. Okay, anyone with your hands still up has challenges of your own. (Laughter) So we all face challenges, and we all face the dark unknown, which is endemic to most challenges, which is what most of us fear, okay? But we all have brains that allow us, that activate to allow us to navigate the journey through these challenges. Okay? Case in point: I came up here and — (Clicking) — they wouldn't tell me where the lectern was. So you can't trust those TED folks. ""Find it yourself,"" they said. So — (Laughter) And the feedback for the P.A. system is no help at all. So now I present to you a challenge. So if you'd all close your eyes for just a moment, okay? And you're going to learn a bit of flash sonar. I'm going to make a sound. I'm going to hold this panel in front  of me, but I'm not going to move it. Just listen to the sound for a moment. Shhhhhhhhhh. Okay, nothing very interesting. Now, listen to what happens to that same exact sound when I move the panel. Shhhhhhhhhhh.  (Pitch getting higher and lower) You do not know the power of the dark side. (Laughter) I couldn't resist. Okay, now keep your eyes closed because, did you hear the difference? Okay. Now, let's be sure. For your challenge, you tell me, just say ""now"" when you hear the panel start to move. Okay? We'll relax into this. Shhhhhhh. Audience: Now. Daniel Kish: Good. Excellent. Open your eyes. All right. So just a few centimeters, you would notice the difference. You've experienced sonar. You'd all make great blind people. (Laughter) Let's have a look at what can happen when this activation process is given some time and attention. (Video) Juan Ruiz: It's like you guys can see with your eyes and we can see with our ears. Brian Bushway: It's not a matter of enjoying it more or less, it's about enjoying it differently. Shawn Marsolais: It goes across. DK: Yeah. SM: And then it's gradually coming back down again. DK: Yes! SM: That's amazing. I can, like, see the car. Holy mother! J. Louchart: I love being blind. If I had the opportunity, honestly, I wouldn't go back to being sighted. JR: The bigger the goal, the more obstacles you'll face, and on the other side of that goal is victory. [In Italian] (Applause) DK: Now, do these people look terrified? Not so much. We have delivered activation training to tens of thousands of blind and sighted people from all backgrounds in nearly 40 countries. When blind people learn to see, sighted people seem inspired to want to learn to see their way better, more clearly, with less fear, because this exemplifies the immense capacity within us all to navigate any type of challenge, through any form of darkness, to discoveries unimagined when we are activated. I wish you all a most activating journey. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Daniel, my friend. As I know you can see, it's a spectacular standing ovation at TED. Thank you for an extraordinary talk. Just one more question about your world, your inner world that you construct. We think that we have things in our world that you as a blind person don't have, but what's your world like? What do you have that we don't have? DK: Three hundred and sixty-degree view, so my sonar works about as well behind me as it does in front of me. It works around corners. It works through surfaces. Generally, it's kind of a fuzzy three-dimensional geometry. One of my students, who has now become an instructor, when he lost his vision, after a few months he was sitting in his three story house and he realized that he could hear everything going on throughout the house: conversations, people in the kitchen, people in the bathroom, several floors away, several walls away. He said it was something like having x-ray vision. CA: What do you picture that you're in right now? How do you picture this theater? DK: Lots of loudspeakers, quite frankly. It's interesting.  When people make a sound, when they laugh, when they fidget, when they take a drink or blow their nose or whatever, I hear everything. I hear every little movement that every single person makes. None of it really escapes my attention, and then, from a sonar perspective, the size of the room, the curvature  of the audience around the stage, it's the height of the room. Like I say, it's all that kind  of three-dimensional surface geometry all around me. CA: Well, Daniel, you have done a spectacular job of helping us all see the world in a different way. Thanks so much for that, truly. DK: Thank you. (Applause)"	（滴答聲）我出生時就患有雙眼視網膜母細胞瘤。在我七個月大時我的右眼被移除。13 個月大時他們把我的左眼移除了。我從最後一個手術後醒來所做的第一件事是爬出我的嬰兒床開始在重症監護嬰兒室裡亂逛，可能是在找那個把我弄成失明的人。（笑聲）顯然地，在嬰兒室裡亂逛對於沒有雙眼的我來說並不是問題。問題是被抓住。 對失明的印象遠比失明本身讓盲人更恐懼。想一下你自己對失明的印象。想一下當我剛上台時你的反應，想一下你自己失明，或者愛的人將失明的景象。對我們大多數人來說恐懼難以想象，因為失明被認為是無知和無意識的縮影，不幸地受到未知黑暗的折磨。多麼詩意啊。 對我來說幸運的是，我的父母沒有充滿詩意。他們很務實。他們明白無知和恐懼僅僅是思想層面的問題，並且思想是可以改變的。他們認為我會長大享受和其他人一樣的自由與責任。用他們的話來說，我會搬出去住，我 18 歲時做了這事，我要繳稅。謝謝（笑聲）他們知道愛和恐懼之間的區別。面對挑戰的時候恐懼使我們無法移動。他們知道失明會構成重大的挑戰。我並不是在恐懼中長大。他們把我的自由看得比其他東西都重要，因為那就是愛才會這麼做。 接下來，如今我是怎麼生存的？世界是一個更大的育兒室。幸運的是，我有一支值得信賴的長手杖，比大多數盲人使用的手杖長。我把它叫做我的自由幫手。例如，它能阻止我，不體面地離開講台。（笑聲）我確實看到講台邊緣。他們之前提醒我演講者在台上遇到過各種事故，我不介意做一個先例。 但除此之外，當我來到講台時大家可能已經聽到我發出的滴答聲—（滴答聲）用舌頭發出的聲音。那些是聲音的反射從我身邊事物的表面反射出去，就像蝙蝠的聲納，把圖案和資訊傳回給我，就像光反射給你們圖案和資訊一樣。感謝我的父母，我的大腦得到啟動在視覺皮層裡形成圖像，我們現在把它叫做成像系統，藉助資訊的結構形成圖像，就像你們的大腦。我稱這個過程為「閃光聲納」。我就是這樣學會在失明中看見東西，透過自我挑戰未知的黑暗駕馭我的旅程，我因此得了一個綽號「神奇蝙蝠俠」。 我接受「蝙蝠俠」這個綽號。蝙蝠很酷。蝙蝠俠也很酷。但是在成長的過程中我不覺得自己在哪方面是奇特的。我總是把自己看得和其它人一樣他們也是在駕馭挑戰性的未知黑暗。那很奇特嗎？我不用眼睛，我用我的大腦。 此時某地的某人，一定覺得那很奇特，否則我不會在這裡，但是我們思考一下。這裡的每一個人面臨或曾經面臨過挑戰的，舉起你們的手。呼。 好的。好多手舉起來，等一下，我來數數。（滴答聲）這需要一會兒。（滴答聲）（笑聲）好，空中有好多手。一直舉着。我有一個主意。那些用大腦來克服挑戰的人，放下你們的手。好的，還舉着手的人面臨著自身的挑戰。（笑聲） 我們都面臨著挑戰，我們都面臨著未知的黑暗，大多數挑戰普遍是這樣，我們大多數人都害怕，對嗎？但我們都有大腦大腦得到啟動讓我們在這些挑戰中駕馭旅程。好嗎？ 一個很好的例子：我來到這裡（滴答聲）他們不告訴我講台在哪裡。你們不能相信 TED 的工作人員。他們說.：「自己找」，（笑聲）而且廣播系統的反饋根本沒有幫助。 現在我向你們展現一個挑戰。你們都閉上眼睛一會兒，好嗎？你們將要學一點閃光聲納。我準備弄出聲響。我會在我的前面舉着這塊平板但不會移動這塊板。聽一會兒我發出的聲音。噓噓噓噓。好吧，沒什麼有趣的。現在，我移動平板聽聽同樣的聲音會有什麼變化。噓噓噓噓。（音調時高時低）你們不知道黑暗的力量。（笑聲）我情不自禁。 好的，現在閉上你們的眼睛，你們聽到差別了嗎？好的，讓我們來確認一下。你們的挑戰是，當我開始移動平板時你們就要告訴我「現在」。好嗎？放鬆。 噓噓噓噓。 觀眾：現在。丹尼爾·基什：好的。很棒。睜開眼睛。好。只移動了幾厘米，你們可以注意到這種變化。你們已經感受到聲納了。你們都變成了不起的盲人。（笑聲）我們來看看當給予啟動過程一些時間和關注會發生什麼。 （影片）胡安·鲁伊斯：就像你們可以用眼睛去看我們可以用耳朵去看。 布萊恩·布施威：這不是欣賞多與少的問題，而是從不同角度欣賞的問題。 尚恩·瑪索萊斯：穿過了。丹尼爾·基什：是的。 尚恩·瑪索萊斯：接着它逐漸再往下走。 丹尼爾·基什：對！尚恩·瑪索萊斯：好神奇。我可以看到汽車。聖母馬利亞！ J. 盧沙爾：我喜歡當盲人。說實話，如果有機會我不打算重見光明了。 JR：目標越大，你面臨的障礙越多，在目標的另一邊是勝利。（意大利語）（掌聲） 丹尼爾·基什：這些人看上去很害怕嗎？不是很害怕。我們把激活訓練傳授給成千上萬的盲人以及來自各種背景的有視力的人遍及 40 個國家。當盲人學會看見，有視力的人似乎受到啟發想要學會更好更清晰沒那麼畏懼地看清他們的路，因為這證明了我們巨大的能力在任何黑暗中，駕馭任何一種類型的挑戰，發現無法想象的東西只要我們受到激活。 我希望你們擁有一個激勵的旅程。 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲） 克里斯·安德森：丹尼爾，我的朋友。我知道你看得到，TED 觀眾的熱烈的掌聲。謝謝你出色的演講。還有一個問題關於你所建立的內心世界。我們認為在我們的世界中我們擁有你們盲人沒有的事物，但是你們的世界是怎樣的？你們擁有我們所沒有的東西是什麼？ 丹尼爾·基什：360 度視角，我的聲納在身後也像身前一樣有用。在角落處也管用。它可以穿過表面總而言之，這是一個模糊的三維幾何世界。我有一個學生，現在是名教員，當他失明幾個月後，他坐在三層樓高的家裡意識到他能聽到屋裡正在發生的一切東西：對話，廚房和浴室裡的人們幾層樓之外，幾牆之隔。他說就像擁有 X 射線一樣的視力。 安德森·丹尼爾：你怎樣描繪現在身處的地方？你怎樣描述這個劇院？ 丹尼爾·基什：坦白說，很多大聲說話的人。很有趣。當人們發出聲音，當他們笑，當他們坐立不安當他們喝飲料或者擤鼻子不管是做什麼，我都能聽到。我聽到每個人做出的細微動作。它們都沒能逃過我的注意，從聲納的角度來說，房間的大小，觀眾繞講台的曲率，房間的高度。就像我說的，這是環繞我的是三維平面幾何世界。 安德森·丹尼爾：丹尼爾，你的演講很棒，幫助我們從一個不同的方式來看世界。真誠地感謝你。丹尼爾·基什：謝謝。 （掌聲）
