Talk	en	zh-tw
daniele_quercia_happy_maps	"I have a confession to make. As a scientist and engineer, I've focused on efficiency for many years. But efficiency can be a cult, and today I'd like to tell you about a journey that moved me out of the cult and back to a far richer reality. A few years ago, after finishing my Ph.D.  in London, I moved to Boston. I lived in Boston and worked in Cambridge. I bought a racing bicycle that summer, and I bicycled every day to work. To find my way, I used my phone. It sent me over Mass. Ave., Massachusetts Avenue, the shortest route from Boston to Cambridge. But after a month that I was cycling every day on the car-packed Mass. Ave., I took a different route one day. I'm not entirely sure why I took a different route that day, a detour. I just remember a feeling of surprise; surprise at finding a street with no cars, as opposed to the nearby Mass. Ave. full of cars; surprise at finding a street  draped by leaves and surrounded by trees. But after the feeling  of surprise, I felt shame. How could I have been so blind? For an entire month, I was so trapped in my mobile app that a journey to work became one thing only: the shortest path. In this single journey, there was no thought of enjoying the road, no pleasure in connecting with nature, no possibility of looking people in the eyes. And why? Because I was saving a minute out of my commute. Now let me ask you: Am I alone here? How many of you have never used a mapping app for finding directions? Most of you, if not all, have. And don't get me wrong — mapping apps are the greatest game-changer for encouraging people to explore the city. You take your phone out and you know immediately where to go. However, the app also assumes there are only a handful of directions to the destination. It has the power to make those handful of directions the definitive direction to that destination. After that experience, I changed. I changed my research from traditional data-mining to understanding how people experience the city. I used computer science tools to replicate social science experiments at scale, at web scale. I became captivated by the beauty and genius of traditional social science experiments done by Jane Jacobs, Stanley Milgram, Kevin Lynch. The result of that research has been the creation of new maps, maps where you don't only find the shortest path, the blue one, but also the most enjoyable path, the red one. How was that possible? Einstein once said, ""Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere."" So with a bit of imagination, we needed to understand which parts of the city people find beautiful. At the University of Cambridge, with colleagues, we thought about this simple experiment. If I were to show you these two urban scenes, and I were to ask you which one is more beautiful, which one would you say? Don't be shy. Who says A? Who says B? Brilliant. Based on that idea, we built a crowdsourcing platform, a web game. Players are shown pairs of urban scenes, and they're asked to choose which one  is more beautiful, quiet and happy. Based on thousands of user votes, then we are able to see where consensus emerges. We are able to see which are the urban scenes that make people happy. After that work, I joined Yahoo Labs, and I teamed up with Luca and Rossano, and together, we aggregated those winning locations in London to build a new map of the city, a cartography weighted for human emotions. On this cartography, you're not only able to see and connect from point A to point B  the shortest segments, but you're also able to see the happy segment, the beautiful path, the quiet path. In tests, participants found the happy, the beautiful, the quiet path far more enjoyable than the shortest one, and that just by adding a few minutes to travel time. Participants also love to attach memories to places. Shared memories — that's where the old BBC building was; and personal memories — that's where I gave my first kiss. They also recalled how some paths smelled and sounded. So what if we had a mapping tool that would return the most enjoyable routes based not only on aesthetics but also based on smell, sound,  and memories? That's where our research is going right now. More generally, my research, what it tries to do is avoid the danger of the single path, to avoid robbing people of fully experiencing the city in which they live. Walk the path through the park, not through the car park, and you have an entirely different path. Walk the path full of people you love and not full of cars, and you have an entirely different path. It's that simple. I would like to end with this thought: do you remember ""The Truman Show?"" It's a media satire in which a real person doesn't know he's living in a fabricated world. Perhaps we live in a world fabricated for efficiency. Look at some of your daily habits, and as Truman did in the movie, escape the fabricated world. Why? Well, if you think that adventure is dangerous, try routine. It's deadly. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想要向各位懺悔作爲一名科學家與工程師，多年來我專注於提高效率有時效率會變成一種迷信今天，我想與你們分享一段奇遇這段奇遇把我從對效率的迷信中解救出來帶我回到了更豐富的現實世界 幾年前，我在倫敦博士畢業後，來到波士頓我在波士頓居住，在劍橋工作在那一年的夏天，我買了一輛競賽型腳踏車每天我都騎腳踏車去工作我用手機導航找路通過導航，我會經過馬薩大道即馬薩諸塞州大道這是從波士頓前往劍橋的最短路徑然而，一個月後的某一天在經曆了馬薩大道上的厮殺後我決定騎另一條路線我並不是十分確定爲什麽當時我會選擇另一條路線我只記得，我的心裡十分驚喜驚喜這是一條沒有車輛的路因為隔壁的馬薩大道擠滿了車驚喜這是一條被大樹圍繞，被落葉鋪蓋的路可是，驚喜之餘，我感到了羞愧我怎麽會如此的盲目？過去整整一個月我都被困在了手機的導航應用裡騎腳踏車去工作的路僅僅意味著：這是一條最短的路在這段單調的路途中完全沒有享受這條路的愉悅也沒有與大自然交流的樂趣在路上，我根本不可能去看其他路人爲什麽？因爲我想盡量減少上下班花費的時間，哪怕只是一分鍾 現在讓我問一個問題：我是在場唯一經曆過此事的人嗎？有多少人從沒用過導航應用來確定方向？絕大多數的人都曾用過導航也千萬別誤會我的意思導航的確也是改變社會的一大應用它鼓勵人們去探索他們的城市你拿出你的手機，不出幾秒，你就知道你要去哪兒了可是，應用只能提供幾條有限的路線導航把這幾條路線變成成爲到達目的地的唯一選擇 在那段經曆過後，我做出了改變我把我的研究方向從傳統的數據挖掘改爲理解人們的城市體驗我通過電腦科技完成社會實驗，並把社會實驗帶入網路在此其中，我被這些實驗中暗含的的美妙與真理深深迷住特別是由 Jane Jacobs, Stanley Milgram和 Kevin Lynch 完成的傳統的社會科學實驗這個研究的成果是一張新的地圖在這張地圖裡，你不僅僅能找到最短的路線，即藍色的那條還能找到最令人享受的路線就是這條紅色的路線這到底是怎麽做到的呢？ 愛因斯坦曾經說過“邏輯能讓你從A點到達B點。而想像力，卻能讓你到達所有地方。”因此，通過一點點的想像力我們找到了城市哪個部分讓人們覺得很美我和在劍橋大學的時的同事們想出一個簡單的實驗如果我向你展示兩張城市的景色圖片並問你哪一張最漂亮你會選哪一個呢?別害羞誰選A？誰選B？好極了基於這個想法我們建立了一個利用群衆資源的平台一個線上遊戲在遊戲中，我們會展示給玩家們成對的城市景色並讓他們選擇哪一個景色更美麗，更安靜，更有幸福感基於上千張的用戶投票我們能夠得出哪裡有公認的美景哪裡是公認能讓路人感到幸福的景色 在那次實驗之後，我加入了雅虎實驗室我與 Luca 和 Rossano 組隊收集那些在倫敦勝出的景色利用這些數據，我們制定了一張新地圖這張地圖以感受做為基礎在地圖裡，你不僅僅能看見並連接A點和B點，了解到最近的路線你還能看到快樂的路線美麗的路線，和安靜的路線在地圖測試中，參與者們發現那些快樂、美麗、安靜的路線都遠比最短的路線更令人享受而且那些路線所花的時間只是多了幾分鍾參與者們也很喜歡把回憶注入到這些景色中其中有大衆的回憶這是BBC的舊址也有私人的回憶那是我獻出初吻的地方他們都回憶起這些道路曾經的味道與聲音我們便有了這樣一個地圖應用它指出的路線並不僅僅基於美觀，而是建立在氣味、聲音與回憶上這便是我們現在研究的目標簡單地說，我的研究目標是避免單一選項讓使用者能真正地享受他們居住的城市散步在公園小徑上而不是停車場這條路就會變得截然不同與愛的回憶相伴而不是與車輛爭道這條路就變得截然不同就這麽簡單 我希望用一個想法來結束這次演講：你們還記得《楚門的世界》嗎？這部諷刺電影描述一個人不知道他的世界是個人造的假象或許我們就活在效率編織的假象裡看看你們的日常習慣快像電影裡的楚門一樣，逃出這個虛假的世界吧爲什麽呢？好吧，如果你覺得冒險是危險的那麽繼續走你致命的常規路線吧 謝謝 （掌聲）
