Talk	en	zh-tw
dave_troy_social_maps_that_reveal_a_city_s_intersections_and_separations	"When we think about mapping cities, we tend to think about roads and streets and buildings, and the settlement narrative that led to their creation, or you might think about the bold vision of an urban designer, but there's other ways to think about mapping cities and how they got to be made. Today, I want to show you a new kind of map. This is not a geographic map. This is a map of the relationships  between people in my hometown of Baltimore, Maryland, and what you can see here is that each dot represents a person, each line represents a relationship between those people, and each color represents a community within the network. Now, I'm here on the green side, down on the far right where the geeks are, and TEDx also is down  on the far right. (Laughter) Now, on the other side of the network, you tend to have primarily African-American and Latino folks who are really concerned about somewhat different things than the geeks are, but just to give some sense, the green part of the network  we call Smalltimore, for those of us that inhabit it, because it seems as though we're living in a very small town. We see the same people over and over again, but that's because we're not really exploring the full depth and breadth of the city. On the other end of the network, you have folks who are interested in things like hip-hop music and they even identify with living in the DC/Maryland/Virginia area over, say, the Baltimore city designation proper. But in the middle, you see that there's something that connects the two communities together, and that's sports. We have the Baltimore Orioles, the Baltimore Ravens football team, Michael Phelps, the Olympian. Under Armour, you may have heard of, is a Baltimore company, and that community of sports acts as the only bridge between these two ends of the network. Let's take a look at San Francisco. You see something a little bit different happening in San Francisco. On the one hand, you do have the media, politics and news lobe that tends to exist in Baltimore and other cities, but you also have this very predominant group of geeks and techies that are sort of taking over the top half of the network, and there's even a group that's so distinct and clear that we can identify it as Twitter employees, next to the geeks, in between the gamers and the geeks, at the opposite end of the hip-hop spectrum. So you can see, though, that the tensions that we've heard about in San Francisco in terms of people being concerned about gentrification and all the new tech companies that are bringing new wealth and settlement into the city are real, and you can actually see that documented here. You can see the LGBT community is not really getting along with the geek community that well, the arts community, the music community. And so it leads to things like this. [""Evict Twitter""] Somebody sent me this photo a few weeks ago, and it shows what is happening on the ground in San Francisco, and I think you can actually try to understand that through looking at a map like this. Let's take a look at Rio de Janeiro. I spent the last few weeks gathering data about Rio, and one of the things that stood out to me about this city is that everything's really kind of mixed up. It's a very heterogenous city in a way  that Baltimore or San Francisco is not. You still have the lobe of people involved with government, newspapers, politics, columnists. TEDxRio is down in the lower right, right next to bloggers and writers. But then you also have this tremendous diversity of people that are interested in different kinds of music. Even Justin Bieber fans are represented here. Other boy bands, country singers, gospel music, funk and rap and stand-up comedy, and there's even a whole section around drugs and jokes. How cool is that? And then the Flamengo football team is also represented here. So you have that same kind of spread of sports and civics and the arts and music, but it's represented in a very different way, and I think that maybe fits with our understanding of Rio as being a very multicultural, musically diverse city. So we have all this data. It's an incredibly rich set of data that we have about cities now, maybe even richer than any data set that we've ever had before. So what can we do with it? Well, I think the first thing that we can try to understand is that segregation is a social construct. It's something that we choose to do, and we could choose not to do it, and if you kind of think about it, what we're doing with this data is aiming a space telescope at a city and looking at it as if was a giant high school cafeteria, and seeing how everybody arranged themselves in a seating chart. Well maybe it's time to shake up the seating chart a little bit. The other thing that we start to realize is that race is a really poor proxy for diversity. We've got people represented from all different types of races across the entire map here — only looking at race doesn't really contribute to our development of diversity. So if we're trying to use diversity as a way to tackle some of our more intractable problems, we need to start to think  about diversity in a new way. And lastly, we have the ability to create interventions to start to reshape our cities in a new way, and I believe that if we have that capability, we may even bear some responsibility to do so. So what is a city? I think some might say that it is a geographical area or a collection of streets and buildings, but I believe that a city  is the sum of the relationships of the people that live there, and I believe that if we can start to document those relationships in a real way then maybe we have a real shot at creating those kinds of cities that we'd like to have. Thank you. (Applause)"	每當我們想到繪製城市地圖，我們很容易想到街道及建築物，以及村落追溯起源的故事，你可能還會想到都市設計師的大膽願景，但是還有其他的方法繪製城市，及如何表現出來。今天，我要讓你們看一下新種地圖。這不是地理圖。這是我住的城市的人際關係圖，即馬里蘭州巴爾的摩市。你們在這裡看見的每個點都代表一個人，每條線代表人與人之間的關係，每個顏色則代表網絡上的不同社群。 那，我在綠色這邊，即下面最右邊技客所在地，TEDx 也在下面最右邊。（笑聲）那，網絡的另一邊，有非洲裔及拉丁裔群集的傾向，他們真正關心的跟技客大不同，但要讓你們更瞭解情況，網絡上綠色的部份我們稱之為小巴爾的摩，我們這些當地居民都這麼叫它，因為我們就好像住在一個小城一樣。我們總是看到同一批人，但那是因為我們沒有真正去探索這個城市的深度與廣度。在網絡的另一端，你有對嘻哈音樂感興趣的人，他們甚至認為自己還比較像生活在大華府地區的人，不像巴爾的摩人。但在中間，你們可以看見有東西將這兩個族群連在一起，那就是運動。我們有巴爾的摩金鶯隊，巴爾的摩烏鴉美式足球隊，麥可·菲爾普斯，奧運選手。安德瑪 (Under Armour) 運動品牌，你們大概聽過，是家巴爾的摩公司，而那個運動族群是這網絡兩端的唯一橋樑。 再來看看舊金山。你看舊金山的情況有點不同。一方面，你的確有媒體、政治及新聞那塊跟巴爾的摩及其他城市一樣，但你也有這塊非常明顯的技客和電子族群，他們占了網絡的上半部，還有一群人，非常清楚明顯，我們都能看出他們是推特員工，位在技客旁邊，在電玩家與技客之間，在嘻哈端的另一頭。然而你們可以看到，我們聽說在舊金山有種緊張情勢，就是人們擔心仕紳化，及科技新貴公司把新財富及新社區帶進城市的情況其實很真實，你們可以從這個看出來。你們可以看到同性戀族群與技客族群相處並不那麼融洽，還有藝術族群，音樂族群。所以就產生了這個。「驅逐推特」有人幾星期前傳了這張照片給我，這顯示了在舊金山那裡的情況，我想你真的可以透過研究像這樣的地圖去試著瞭解狀況。 再來看里約熱內盧。我花了過去幾個星期收集里約的資料，有一件事特別吸引我注意，就是這真的是個大混缸。這是個非常混雜的城市，與巴爾的摩和舊金山非常不同。你仍然有人從事與政府、報紙、政治、專欄等有關的活動。TEDxRio 就在右下，與部落格主及作家相鄰。但也有一群極大多樣性的人對各式不同的音樂有興趣。甚至小賈斯汀也有粉絲在這。其他的男孩團體、鄉村歌手、福音音樂、放克饒舌及單人脫口秀，甚至有一整塊是毒品及笑話。這多酷啊！然後佛朗明哥足球隊也有一塊。所以同樣是有體育、市政、藝術、音樂的分佈，但分佈的方式卻截然不同，我認為那大概與我們所瞭解的里約相符，就是一個非常多文化、音樂多元的城市。 所以我們有這些資料。這組與城市有關的資料非常豐富，可能甚至比我們之前所有的資料都要豐富。所以我們要怎麼用它呢？嗯，我想我們首先要試著去瞭解的是隔離其實是一種社會建構。這是我們選擇要做的，我們也能選擇不要做，如果你想一下，我們拿這組資料所做的，就像拿太空望遠鏡來看城市，就好像在一座龐大的高中自助餐廳，去看每一個人怎麼安排自己的座位一樣。可能是該重新改變座位表的時候了！ 我們開始瞭解的另一件事是，用種族來代表多樣性是很糟的方法。我們有各式各樣的人種分布在這整張地圖上，只看種族不能看出多樣性的真實發展。所以如果我們試著用多樣性來解決一些棘手的問題，我們必須開始用新的方法思考多樣性。 最後，我們有能力去干預，以新方法開始重塑我們的城市，而且我相信如果我們有那種能力，我們甚至還能扛起責任來做這件事。 所以，什麼是城市？我想有些人或許會說它是地理區域或街道及建築物的組合，但我相信一座城市是所有居民的關係總和。而且我相信如果我們能以真實的方法記錄這些關係，那或許我們真的有機會創造我們想要的城市。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
