Talk	en	zh-tw
david_pizarro_the_strange_politics_of_disgust	"In the 17th century, a woman named Giulia Tofana had a very successful perfume business. For over 50 years she ran it. It sort of ended abruptly when she was executed — (Laughter) — for murdering 600 men. You see, it wasn't a very good perfume. In fact, it was completely odorless and tasteless and colorless, but as a poison, it was the best money could buy, so women flocked to her in order to murder their husbands. It turns out that poisoners were a valued and feared group, because poisoning a human being is a quite difficult thing. The reason is, we have sort of a built-in poison detector. You can see this as early as even in newborn infants. If you are willing to do this, you can take a couple of drops of a bitter substance or a sour substance, and you'll see that face, the tongue stick out, the wrinkled nose, as if they're trying to get rid of what's in their mouth. This reaction expands into adulthood and becomes sort of a full-blown disgust response, no longer just about whether or not we're about to be poisoned, but whenever there's a threat of physical contamination from some source. But the face remains strikingly similar. It has expanded more, though, than just keeping us away from physical contaminants, and there's a growing body of evidence to suggest that, in fact, this emotion of disgust now influences our moral beliefs and even our deeply held political intuitions. Why this might be the case? We can understand this process by understanding a little bit about emotions in general. So the basic human emotions, those kinds of emotions that we share with all other human beings, exist because they motivate us to do good things and they keep us away from doing bad things. So by and large, they are good for our survival. Take the emotion of fear, for instance. It keeps us away from doing things that are really, really risky. This photo taken just before his death — (Laughter) — is actually a — No, one reason this photo is interesting is because most people would not do this, and if they did, they would not live to tell it, because fear would have kicked in a long time ago to a natural predator. Just like fear offers us protective benefits, disgust seems to do the same thing, except for what disgust does is keeps us away from not things that might eat us, or heights, but rather things that might poison us, or give us disease and make us sick. So one of the features of disgust that makes it such an interesting emotion is that it's very, very easy to elicit, in fact more so than probably any of the other basic emotions, and so I'm going to show you that with a couple of images I can probably make you feel disgust. So turn away. I'll tell you when you can turn back. (Laughter) I mean, you see it every day, right? I mean, come on. (Laughter) (Audience: Ewww.) Okay, turn back, if you didn't look. Those probably made a lot of you in the audience feel very, very disgusted, but if you didn't look, I can tell you about some of the other things that have been shown sort of across the world to make people disgusted, things like feces, urine, blood, rotten flesh. These are the sorts of things that it makes sense for us to stay away from, because they might actually contaminate us. In fact, just having a diseased appearance or odd sexual acts, these things are also things that give us a lot of disgust. Darwin was probably one of the first scientists to systematically investigate the human emotions, and he pointed to the universal nature and the strength of the disgust response. This is an anecdote from his travels in South America. ""In Tierro del Fuego a native touched with his finger some cold preserved meat while I was eating ... and plainly showed disgust at its softness, whilst I felt utter disgust at my food being touched by a naked savage — (Laughter) — though his hands did not appear dirty."" He later wrote, ""It's okay, some of my best friends are naked savages."" (Laughter) Well it turns out it's not only old-timey British scientists who are this squeamish. I recently got a chance to talk to Richard Dawkins for a documentary, and I was able to disgust him a bunch of times. Here's my favorite. Richard Dawkins: ""We've evolved around courtship and sex, are attached to deep-rooted emotions and reactions that are hard to jettison overnight."" David Pizarro: So my favorite part of this clip is that Professor Dawkins actually gagged. He jumps back, and he gags, and we had to do it three times, and all three times he gagged. (Laughter) And he was really gagging. I thought he might throw up on me, actually. One of the features, though, of disgust, is not just its universality and its strength, but the way that it works through association. So when one disgusting thing touches a clean thing, that clean thing becomes disgusting, not the other way around. This makes it very useful as a strategy if you want to convince somebody that an object or an individual or an entire social group is disgusting and should be avoided. The philosopher Martha Nussbaum points this out in this quote: ""Thus throughout history, certain disgust properties — sliminess, bad smell, stickiness, decay, foulness — have been repeatedly and monotonously been associated with ... Jews, women, homosexuals, untouchables, lower-class people — all of those are imagined as tainted by the dirt of the body."" Let me give you just some examples of how, some powerful examples of how this has been used historically. This comes from a Nazi children's book published in 1938: ""Just look at these guys! The louse-infested beards, the filthy, protruding ears, those stained, fatty clothes... Jews often have an unpleasant sweetish odor. If you have a good nose, you can smell the Jews."" A more modern example comes from people who try to convince us that homosexuality is immoral. This is from an anti-gay website, where they said gays are ""worthy of death for their vile ... sex practices."" They're like ""dogs eating their own vomit and sows wallowing in their own feces."" These are disgust properties that are trying to be directly linked to the social group that you should not like. When we were first investigating the role of disgust in moral judgment, one of the things we became interested in was whether or not these sorts of appeals are more likely to work in individuals who are more easily disgusted. So while disgust, along with the other basic emotions, are universal phenomena, it just really is true that some people are easier to disgust than others. You could probably see it in the audience members when I showed you those disgusting images. The way that we measured this was by a scale that was constructed by some other psychologists that simply asked people across a wide variety of situations how likely they are to feel disgust. So here are a couple of examples. ""Even if I were hungry, I would not drink a bowl of my favorite soup if it had been stirred by a used but thoroughly washed fly-swatter."" ""Do you agree or disagree?"" (Laughter) ""While you are walking through a tunnel under a railroad track, you smell urine. Would you be very disgusted or not at all disgusted?"" If you ask enough of these, you can get a general overall score of disgust sensitivity. It turns out that this score is actually meaningful. When you bring people into the laboratory and you ask them if they're willing to engage in safe but disgusting behaviors like eating chocolate that's been baked to look like dog poop, or in this case eating some mealworms that are perfectly healthy but pretty gross, your score on that scale actually predicts whether or not you'll be willing to engage in those behaviors. The first time that we set out to collect data on this and associate it with political or moral beliefs, we found a general pattern — this is with the psychologists Yoel Inbar and Paul Bloom — that in fact, across three studies we kept finding that people who reported that they were easily disgusted also reported that they were more politically conservative. Another way to say this, though, is that people who are very liberal are very hard to disgust. (Laughter) In a more recent follow-up study, we were able to look at a much greater sample, a much larger sample. In this case, this is nearly 30,000 U.S. respondents, and we find the same pattern. As you can see, people who are on the very conservative side of answering the political orientation scale are also much more likely to report that they're easily disgusted. This data set also allowed us to statistically control for a number of things that we knew were both related to political orientation and to disgust sensitivity. So we were able to control for gender, age, income, education, even basic personality variables, and the result stays the same. When we actually looked at not just self-reported political orientation, but voting behavior, we were able to look geographically across the nation. What we found was that in regions in which people reported high levels of disgust sensitivity, McCain got more votes. So it not only predicted self-reported political orientation, but actual voting behavior. And also we were able, with this sample, to look across the world, in 121 different countries we asked the same questions, and as you can see, this is 121 countries collapsed into 10 different geographical regions. No matter where you look, what this is plotting is the size of the relationship between disgust sensitivity and political orientation, and no matter where we looked, we saw a very similar effect. Other labs have actually looked at this as well using different measures of disgust sensitivity, so rather than asking people how easily disgusted they are, they hook people up to physiological measures, in this case skin conductance. And what they've demonstrated is that people who report being more politically conservative are also more physiologically aroused when you show them disgusting images like the ones that I showed you. Interestingly, what they also showed in a finding that we kept getting in our previous studies as well was that one of the strongest influences here is that individuals who are very disgust-sensitive not only are more likely to report being politically conservative, but they're also very much more opposed to gay marriage and homosexuality and pretty much a lot of the socio-moral issues in the sexual domain. So physiological arousal predicted, in this study, attitudes toward gay marriage. But even with all these data linking disgust sensitivity and political orientation, one of the questions that remains is what is the causal link here? Is it the case that disgust really is shaping political and moral beliefs? We have to resort to experimental methods to answer this, and so what we can do is actually bring people into the lab and disgust them and compare them to a control group that hasn't been disgusted. It turns out that over the past five years a number of researchers have done this, and by and large the results have all been the same, that when people are feeling disgust, their attitudes shift towards the right of the political spectrum, toward more moral conservatism as well. So this is whether you use a foul odor, a bad taste, from film clips, from post-hypnotic suggestions of disgust, images like the ones I've shown you, even just reminding people that disease is prevalent and they should be wary of it and wash up, right, to keep clean, these all have similar effects on judgment. Let me just give you an example from a recent study that we conducted. We asked participants to just simply give us their opinion of a variety of social groups, and we either made the room smell gross or not. When the room smelled gross, what we saw was that individuals actually reported more negative attitudes toward gay men. Disgust didn't influence attitudes toward all the other social groups that we asked, including African-Americans, the elderly. It really came down to the attitudes they had toward gay men. In another set of studies we actually simply reminded people — this was at a time when the swine flu was going around — we reminded people that in order to prevent the spread of the flu that they ought to wash their hands. For some participants, we actually had them take questionnaires next to a sign that reminded them to wash their hands. And what we found was that just taking a questionnaire next to this hand-sanitizing reminder made individuals report being more politically conservative. And when we asked them a variety of questions about the rightness or wrongness of certain acts, what we also found was that simply being reminded that they ought to wash their hands made them more morally conservative. In particular, when we asked them questions about sort of taboo but fairly harmless sexual practices, just being reminded that they ought to wash their hands made them think that they were more morally wrong. Let me give you an example of what I mean by harmless but taboo sexual practice. We gave them scenarios. One of them said a man is house-sitting for his grandmother. When his grandmother's away, he has sex with his girlfriend on his grandma's bed. In another one, we said a woman enjoys masturbating with her favorite teddy bear cuddled next to her. (Laughter) People find these to be more morally abhorrent if they've been reminded to wash their hands. (Laughter) (Laughter) Okay. The fact that emotions influence our judgment should come as no surprise. I mean, that's part of how emotions work. They not only motivate you to behave in certain ways, but they change the way you think. In the case of disgust, what is a little bit more surprising is the scope of this influence. It makes perfect sense, and it's a very good emotion for us to have, that disgust would make me change the way that I perceive the physical world whenever contamination is possible. It makes less sense that an emotion that was built to prevent me from ingesting poison should predict who I'm going to vote for in the upcoming presidential election. The question of whether disgust ought to influence our moral and political judgments certainly has to be complex, and might depend on exactly what judgments we're talking about, and as a scientist, we have to conclude sometimes that the scientific method is just ill-equipped to answer these sorts of questions. But one thing that I am fairly certain about is, at the very least, what we can do with this research is point to what questions we ought to ask in the first place. Thank you. (Applause)"	"17世紀，有個女人名叫Giulia Tofana她有一個很成功的香水事業在她經營的50多年間。這事業結束的很突然，就在她被處死的時候—(笑聲)—罪名是謀殺六百位男性。你可以知道，這不是一個非常好的香水。事實上，它是一個完全無氣味無味道也無顏色，但就一個毒藥來說，它是一個最划算的選擇。所以女人們聚集到他那裡，為了要謀殺她們的丈夫 結果就是那些下毒者們是一個有價值且被畏懼的群體因為要對一個人下毒是一件蠻困難的事情。原因是，我們有的像是內建的辨毒偵測器，早在新生兒的時期你就會看見如果你願意做這個實驗，你可以嚐嚐幾滴苦的或酸的物質你會看到那個臉部表情，舌頭吐出來，皺起鼻子好像他們正在嘗試要把那在嘴裡的東西吐出來。這個反應也延伸到成人階段，並且成為一個的激烈的厭惡反應，不再只是限於我們是否快要中毒時，而是只要從一有來自物理的污染威脅就會有這個反應。這厭惡的臉孔十分相似。這個反應延伸得很廣，不只是使我們免於身體上的污染。有越來越多證據說明事實上，這個厭惡的情緒影響了我們的道德信念甚至我們深信的政治直覺 為什麼會這樣呢？透過大略的瞭解一些關於情緒的知識，我們就可以瞭解這個過程。人類基本的情緒，這些我們和其他人都一起共有的情緒，他們存在以至於可以推動我們去做好的事情，而且他們也會防止我們去做不好的事情。所以大致來說，這些情緒對於我們的生存來說是有益的。就拿恐懼這個情緒來說，它防止我們去做一些有極大風險的事。這張照片是在他死前拍下的—（笑聲）—這事實上是個—不，這張照片之所以有趣是因為絕大多數的人不會做這件事，而且就算他們做了，他們也不會在活著的時候去告訴別人這件事，因為恐懼感早在更早之前就對它的天敵發出訊號了。就像恐懼感，它提供我們保護的益處，厭惡感也會有相同的功能，除了說厭惡感的存在不是為了要使我們與 會把我們吃掉的東西，或著是與高度保持距離；（厭惡感）的功能是要使我們與有毒物質保持距離，或著避免我們感染疾病。所以說，讓厭惡感成為一個有趣情緒的其中一個特點就是他非常容易被激發比起任何一個基本的情緒我現在要給你們看一些照片可能會讓你感到厭惡所以你可以轉頭（不看），我會告訴你甚麼時候可以回頭（笑聲） 你每天都看到這個，不是嗎？（笑聲） （觀眾：Ewww） 好了，那些剛剛不敢看的人，妳們現在可以轉回來。 這些照片應該讓在座的很多人感到非常非常噁心，但如果你們剛剛沒有看我可以告訴你的一些我剛剛展示的照片它們其實散布在全世界各角落，讓人們感到噁心像是糞，尿，血，腐爛的肉。這些東西都是讓我們理所當然要保持距離的，因為他們可能會真的污染我們事實上，只要有一個患病的外觀或著是奇怪的性行為，這些都讓我們感到十分厭惡 達爾文可能是首批科學家之一去系統化的研究人類的各樣情感並且他也指出厭惡感的普遍性質和強度這是一個他在南美旅行的軼事。 在Tierro地島有個原住民在我吃飯的時候用他的手指觸摸一些冷藏的肉然後有些痛苦地露現出厭惡的神情，雖然我覺得我的食物被一個赤裸裸的野蠻人很噁心 —（笑聲）—但他的手其實看起來不髒。他之後寫道：“沒關係，我有一些好朋友也是赤裸的野蠻人。” 這個結果說明了其實不只是早期的英國科學家這麼容易感到厭惡，我最近有一個機會去談談理查德·道金斯（Richard Dawkins）的紀錄片，然後我數度讓他感到很厭惡。這是我最喜歡的： 理查德·道金斯說：“我們進化成長圍繞著求愛和性，他們連接到根深蒂固的情緒和反應那是很難在一夕間被丟棄的。 我最喜歡的片段是在道金斯教授作嘔的時候。他往後彈，然後作嘔，然後我們還必須做這這件事三遍然後每次他都作嘔。（笑聲）他真的作嘔噢。我想他當時真的很想嘔吐在我身上。 厭惡噁心感的特點之一並不是它的普遍性或強度，而是它透過結合運作當一個噁心的東西去接觸到一個乾淨的東西，那的乾淨的東西就會變的噁心，而不是其他方式這就成了一個非常有用的策略，如果你想要試著說服別人，有一個東西或著一個人或著整個社會群體是很噁心的而且我們應該要避免。哲學家瑪莎·努斯鮑姆（Martha Nussbaum ）指出了這一點”因此，在整個歷史，某些厭惡的東西—黏滑的，難聞的氣味，粘性，腐敗，卑鄙—曾多次且千篇一律的與猶太人，女人，同性戀，賤民，低階級人士—這些都被看作為身上的沾染的污穢讓我告訴你麼一些例子，讓你們看看這種策略是如何在歷史上被利用的。這來自於在1938年岀版的納粹的童書，“看看這些人，這有蝨出沒的鬍鬚，骯髒的，突出的耳朵，那些有汙垢，油漬的衣服...猶太人經常有不好的甜膩氣味如果你的鼻子夠敏感，你就可以聞出猶太人。“一個更接近當代的例子，來自於一群試著要說服我們同性戀是不道德的人們。這是一個反同性戀的網站，他們說男同志們士""他們的卑鄙...性行為是該死的。""他們就像”狗在吃自己的嘔吐物，還有母豬沉溺在自己的糞便“這些都是令人厭惡的東西，企圖要將之直接與這些社會群體連接，讓你覺得應該不要去喜歡他們。 當我們第一次研究厭惡感在道德判斷中所扮演的角色時，有件事讓我們非常感興趣的是這些吸引力會在一些容易感到厭惡感情緒的人身上發揮作用。所以，當厭惡感，還有其他基本的情緒都是很普遍的現象的同時，有些特定的人就是會比其他人更容易感到厭惡你或許已經在這個觀眾席中看到，當我給你們看那些噁心的照片的時候。我們衡量的方法，是用其他心理學家製作的一個評分算法。就是簡單地問來自不同狀況的人們他們多常感受到厭惡噁心的情緒。這是一些例子：”如果這碗湯是用一個已使用過但洗過的蒼蠅拍攪拌過，就算我感到很餓，我也不會去喝那碗我最愛的湯，”“你們同不同意？” （笑聲）“當你正在穿越一個在火車軌道下的一個隧道，你聞到尿味，你會感覺非常噁心，或是覺得沒差？“如果你問足了這類型的問題，你就可以有一個大概的厭惡感敏銳度的評分。結果發現，這個算法是很有意義的。當你把一群人帶到實驗室，然後你問他們他們是否願意去做一些安全但噁心的行為，像是吃一條長得像狗大便的巧克力，或著，就這個例子來說，吃一些完全健康但蠻噁心的麵包蟲，你的得分在那個評分中就會預測你是否會願意去加入這些行為。 我們的一次收集這些資料然後將它跟政治或道德信念連結時，我們發現一個大概的規律—這是跟心理學家約埃爾·因巴爾（Yoel Inbar)和保羅·布魯姆（ Paul Bloom）發現的—事實上，在這些研究中，我們不斷發現那些說自己很容易感到厭惡或噁心的人也同時會說他們在政治上比較保守換句話說，那些非常開放的人很難感到厭惡。（笑聲） 一個比較近期的研究，我們有辦法去看一個比較大的，比較多的樣品。在這裡，樣本是接近三萬美國受訪者，我們發現一樣的規律性。你會看到那些非常保守地去回答政治取向的人他們的評分也多半傾向於容易感到厭惡。這個數據同時也讓我們有辦法去有策略地控制一些事情，特別是當我們知道政治取向和厭惡敏銳度的關聯性。我們就有辦法去控制性別，年紀，收入教育，甚至基本特質的變因。而且結果都是一樣的。 當我們不再只是看到自我評量的政治取向，而是投票行為，我們就有辦法看到所有橫跨國家的地區。我們發現的是，在那些有高度厭惡感敏銳度的地區，麥肯 (McCain，共和黨 )得到比較多票所以說，這不只是預測了自我評量的政治取向，而是實際上的投票行為。我們也有機會用這個樣本，去看全世界在121個國家，我們問了相同的問題，你會看到，這121個國家分裂成10個不同的地理的區不管你從哪裡看，這個平面圖是他們在厭惡感敏銳度和政治取向的連結的大小。我們看到無論身在何處，我們看到了一個非常類似的效果。另一個實驗也觀察到這個，運用不同的測量方式來測試豔舞感敏銳度，他們不去問人們有多容易感到厭惡他們將人們連結於生理衡量在這裡指的是皮膚電導。他們表現出的是，那些說他們在政治觀比較保守的人，同時在生理上比較容易激動。當你給他們看那些噁心的照片，就像我剛剛給你們看的那些，很有趣地，他們同時也在這個研究中表現出，就像我們之前的研究一樣，這裡最強的影響之一是，那些容易感到厭惡的人不只會傾向於於政治保守，同時他們也會更反對同性戀結婚，同性戀傾向，以及許多在性領域的社會道德問題。因此，生理抗奮所預測的，在這項研究中對同性婚姻的態度 但是，即使所有這些數據連接厭惡敏感性和政治取向，有個問題仍然是這裡的因果關係是什麼？厭惡真的在塑造政治和道德​​信念嗎？我們必須訴諸實驗方法來回答這個問題，我們可以做的其實是把人帶進實驗室來讓他們感到厭惡，然後將他們和那些沒感受厭惡感的對照組進行比較。結果是五年多來很多的研究員都做過這個實驗，大部份的結果都是一樣的，當人們感到厭惡，他們的態度轉向右翼的政治光譜，也更傾向於道德保守主義。因此，這是你是否使用難聞的氣味，不好的味道，從電影片段，從後催眠所暗示的厭惡，類似我剛剛展示的那些圖片，甚至只是提醒人們有個疾病非常普遍，他們應該警惕地清洗，保持清潔這些都有類似的效果判斷。 讓我從最近的一項研究給你舉個例子，我們要求參與者只是簡單地給我們的各種社會群體的意見，然後我們選擇要或不要讓房間有難聞的味道當室內有難聞氣味時，我們看到的是，受訪者會對男同性戀有更負面的態度，厭惡並沒有影響所有其他的態度。我們所提問的社會群體，包括非裔美國人，還有老年人。這真的只影響他們對男同性戀的態度。在另一組研究中，我們實際上只是提醒人們 -這是在豬流感盛行的時候我們提醒他們，為了防止豬流感的擴散他們必須要洗手。我們也把有些受訪者帶到一個警示牌旁邊要提醒他們要洗手我們發現，就只是因為我們在要洗手的警示牌旁問問題，他們的報告就顯示比較政治保守。然後我們問他們不同的問題，關於某些行為的正確與錯誤，我們也發現就只是因為簡單的提醒他們應該要洗手，就使他們在道德觀上變得保守。尤其當我們問到關於各樣視為禁忌卻無害的性行為時，就只是提醒他們應該要洗手使得他們認為這些行為是在道德上是錯誤的讓我給你一個例子，說明“無害但被視為禁忌的性行為“是什麼意思。我給他們一個情境，其中一個是，有個男人在家裡照顧他的奶奶，當她的奶奶不在時，他和他的女友在她奶奶的床上發生性行為。另一個例子，有一個女人喜歡自慰時擁抱她最喜歡的玩具熊。（笑聲）人們覺得這些事情在道德上是很悖逆的如果他們有被提醒要洗手的話 。（笑聲）（笑聲） 好吧。情緒會影響我們的判斷的事實應該不會太令人驚訝。我的意思是，這就是情緒運作的一部分。他們不僅激勵你在某些方面的行為，它也改變你思考的方式在厭惡感的例子中，有點令人驚訝的是在於它所影響的範圍。這完全符合邏輯而且這也是我們所擁有的一個很好的情緒，厭惡感使我們在物理世界受到污染時改變我們對事物的的看法。要說一個用來幫助我們免於中毒的情緒可以預測我在接下來的總統大選要選誰，這有點不合邏輯。 但問題是厭惡感是否應該影響我們的道德和政治觀的判斷那絕對會複雜，而且可能會需要根據我們談論的不同議題而定。作為一個科學家，我們必須作一個總結，就是有時候科學方法並沒有裝備好要去回答這樣的問題但有一件事我們可以確定的事這個就是至少，我們可以從這個研究中所作的是指出我們要問的第一個問題應該是什麼。謝謝。（鼓掌）"
