Talk	en	zh-tw
david_anderson_your_brain_is_more_than_a_bag_of_chemicals	"So raise your hand if you know someone in your immediate family or circle of friends who suffers from some form of mental illness. Yeah. I thought so. Not surprised. And raise your hand if you think that basic research on fruit flies has anything to do with understanding mental illness in humans. Yeah. I thought so. I'm also not surprised. I can see I've got my work cut out for me here. As we heard from Dr. Insel this morning, psychiatric disorders like autism, depression and schizophrenia take a terrible toll on human suffering. We know much less about their treatment and the understanding of their basic mechanisms than we do about diseases of the body. Think about it: In 2013, the second decade of the millennium, if you're concerned about a cancer diagnosis and you go to your doctor, you get bone scans, biopsies and blood tests. In 2013, if you're concerned about a depression diagnosis, you go to your doctor, and what do you get? A questionnaire. Now, part of the reason for this is that we have an oversimplified and increasingly outmoded view of the biological basis of psychiatric disorders. We tend to view them — and the popular press aids and abets this view — as chemical imbalances in the brain, as if the brain were some kind of bag of chemical soup full of dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine. This view is conditioned by the fact that many of the drugs that are prescribed to treat these disorders, like Prozac, act by globally changing brain chemistry, as if the brain were indeed a bag of chemical soup. But that can't be the answer, because these drugs actually don't work all that well. A lot of people won't take them, or stop taking them, because of their unpleasant side effects. These drugs have so many side effects because using them to treat a complex psychiatric disorder is a bit like trying to change your engine oil by opening a can and pouring it all over the engine block. Some of it will dribble into the right place, but a lot of it will do more harm than good. Now, an emerging view that you also heard about from Dr. Insel this morning, is that psychiatric disorders are actually disturbances of neural circuits that mediate emotion, mood and affect. When we think about cognition, we analogize the brain to a computer. That's no problem. Well it turns out that the computer analogy is just as valid for emotion. It's just that we don't tend to think about it that way. But we know much less about the circuit basis of psychiatric disorders because of the overwhelming dominance of this chemical imbalance hypothesis. Now, it's not that chemicals are not important in psychiatric disorders. It's just that they don't bathe the brain like soup. Rather, they're released in very specific locations and they act on specific synapses to change the flow of information in the brain. So if we ever really want to understand the biological basis of psychiatric disorders, we need to pinpoint these locations in the brain where these chemicals act. Otherwise, we're going to keep pouring oil all over our mental engines and suffering the consequences. Now to begin to overcome our ignorance of the role of brain chemistry in brain circuitry, it's helpful to work on what we biologists call ""model organisms,"" animals like fruit flies and laboratory mice, in which we can apply powerful genetic techniques to molecularly identify and pinpoint specific classes of neurons, as you heard about in Allan Jones's talk this morning. Moreover, once we can do that, we can actually activate specific neurons or we can destroy or inhibit the activity of those neurons. So if we inhibit a particular type of neuron, and we find that a behavior is blocked, we can conclude that those neurons are necessary for that behavior. On the other hand, if we activate a group of neurons and we find that that produces the behavior, we can conclude that those neurons are sufficient for the behavior. So in this way, by doing this kind of test, we can draw cause and effect relationships between the activity of specific neurons in particular circuits and particular behaviors, something that is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to do right now in humans. But can an organism like a fruit fly, which is — it's a great model organism because it's got a small brain, it's capable of complex and sophisticated behaviors, it breeds quickly, and it's cheap. But can an organism like this teach us anything about emotion-like states? Do these organisms even have emotion-like states, or are they just little digital robots? Charles Darwin believed that insects have emotion and express them in their behaviors, as he wrote in his 1872 monograph on the expression of the emotions in man and animals. And my eponymous colleague, Seymour Benzer, believed it as well. Seymour is the man that introduced the use of drosophila here at CalTech in the '60s as a model organism to study the connection between genes and behavior. Seymour recruited me to CalTech in the late 1980s. He was my Jedi and my rabbi while he was here, and Seymour taught me both to love flies and also to play with science. So how do we ask this question? It's one thing to believe that flies have emotion-like states, but how do we actually find out whether that's true or not? Now, in humans we often infer emotional states, as you'll hear later today, from facial expressions. However, it's a little difficult to do that in fruit flies. (Laughter) It's kind of like landing on Mars and looking out the window of your spaceship at all the little green men who are surrounding it and trying to figure out, ""How do I find out if they have emotions or not?"" What can we do? It's not so easy. Well, one of the ways that we can start is to try to come up with some general characteristics or properties of emotion-like states such as arousal, and see if we can identify any fly behaviors that might exhibit some of those properties. So three important ones that I can think of are persistence, gradations in intensity, and valence. Persistence means long-lasting. We all know that the stimulus that triggers an emotion causes that emotion to last long after the stimulus is gone. Gradations of intensity means what it sounds like. You can dial up the intensity or dial down the intensity of an emotion. If you're a little bit unhappy, the corners of your mouth turn down and you sniffle, and if you're very unhappy, tears pour down your face and you might sob. Valence means good or bad, positive or negative. So we decided to see if flies could be provoked into showing the kind of behavior that you see by the proverbial wasp at the picnic table, you know, the one that keeps coming back to your hamburger the more vigorously you try to swat it away, and it seems to keep getting irritated. So we built a device, which we call a puff-o-mat, in which we could deliver little brief air puffs to fruit flies in these plastic tubes in our laboratory bench and blow them away. And what we found is that if we gave these flies in the puff-o-mat several puffs in a row, they became somewhat hyperactive and continued to run around for some time after the air puffs actually stopped and took a while to calm down. So we quantified this behavior using custom locomotor tracking software developed with my collaborator Pietro Perona, who's in the electrical engineering division here at CalTech. And what this quantification showed us is that, upon experiencing a train of these air puffs, the flies appear to enter a kind of state of hyperactivity which is persistent, long-lasting, and also appears to be graded. More puffs, or more intense puffs, make the state last for a longer period of time. So now we wanted to try to understand something about what controls the duration of this state. So we decided to use our puff-o-mat and our automated tracking software to screen through hundreds of lines of mutant fruit flies to see if we could find any that showed abnormal responses to the air puffs. And this is one of the great things about fruit flies. There are repositories where you can just pick up the phone and order hundreds of vials of flies of different mutants and screen them in your assay and then find out what gene is affected in the mutation. So doing the screen, we discovered one mutant that took much longer than normal to calm down after the air puffs, and when we examined the gene that was affected in this mutation, it turned out to encode a dopamine receptor. That's right — flies, like people, have dopamine, and it acts on their brains and on their synapses through the same dopamine receptor molecules that you and I have. Dopamine plays a number of important functions in the brain, including in attention, arousal, reward, and disorders of the dopamine system have been linked to a number of mental disorders including drug abuse, Parkinson's disease, and ADHD. Now, in genetics, it's a little counterintuitive. We tend to infer the normal function of something by what doesn't happen when we take it away, by the opposite of what we see when we take it away. So when we take away the dopamine receptor and the flies take longer to calm down, from that we infer that the normal function of this receptor and dopamine is to cause the flies to calm down faster after the puff. And that's a bit reminiscent of ADHD, which has been linked to disorders of the dopamine system in humans. Indeed, if we increase the levels of dopamine in normal flies by feeding them cocaine after getting the appropriate DEA license — oh my God — (Laughter) — we find indeed that these cocaine-fed flies calm down faster than normal flies do, and that's also reminiscent of ADHD, which is often treated with drugs like Ritalin that act similarly to cocaine. So slowly I began to realize that what started out as a rather playful attempt to try to annoy fruit flies might actually have some relevance to a human psychiatric disorder. Now, how far does this analogy go? As many of you know, individuals afflicted with ADHD also have learning disabilities. Is that true of our dopamine receptor mutant flies? Remarkably, the answer is yes. As Seymour showed back in the 1970s, flies, like songbirds, as you just heard, are capable of learning. You can train a fly to avoid an odor, shown here in blue, if you pair that odor with a shock. Then when you give those trained flies the chance to choose between a tube with the shock-paired odor and another odor, it avoids the tube containing the blue odor that was paired with shock. Well, if you do this test on dopamine receptor mutant flies, they don't learn. Their learning score is zero. They flunk out of CalTech. So that means that these flies have two abnormalities, or phenotypes, as we geneticists call them, that one finds in ADHD: hyperactivity and learning disability. Now what's the causal relationship, if anything, between these phenotypes? In ADHD, it's often assumed that the hyperactivity causes the learning disability. The kids can't sit still long enough to focus, so they don't learn. But it could equally be the case that it's the learning disabilities that cause the hyperactivity. Because the kids can't learn, they look for other things to distract their attention. And a final possibility is that there's no relationship at all between learning disabilities and hyperactivity, but that they are caused by a common underlying mechanism in ADHD. Now people have been wondering about this for a long time in humans, but in flies we can actually test this. And the way that we do this is to delve deeply into the mind of the fly and begin to untangle its circuitry using genetics. We take our dopamine receptor mutant flies and we genetically restore, or cure, the dopamine receptor by putting a good copy of the dopamine receptor gene back into the fly brain. But in each fly, we put it back only into certain neurons and not in others, and then we test each of these flies for their ability to learn and for hyperactivity. Remarkably, we find we can completely dissociate these two abnormalities. If we put a good copy of the dopamine receptor back in this elliptical structure called the central complex, the flies are no longer hyperactive, but they still can't learn. On the other hand, if we put the receptor back in a different structure called the mushroom body, the learning deficit is rescued, the flies learn well, but they're still hyperactive. What that tells us is that dopamine is not bathing the brain of these flies like soup. Rather, it's acting to control two different functions on two different circuits, so the reason there are two things wrong with our dopamine receptor flies is that the same receptor is controlling two different functions in two different regions of the brain. Whether the same thing is true in ADHD in humans we don't know, but these kinds of results should at least cause us to consider that possibility. So these results make me and my colleagues more convinced than ever that the brain is not a bag of chemical soup, and it's a mistake to try to treat complex psychiatric disorders just by changing the flavor of the soup. What we need to do is to use our ingenuity and our scientific knowledge to try to design a new generation of treatments that are targeted to specific neurons and specific regions of the brain that are affected in particular psychiatric disorders. If we can do that, we may be able to cure these disorders without the unpleasant side effects, putting the oil back in our mental engines, just where it's needed. Thank you very much."	"如果你的家人或者朋友曾經遭受到精神疾病的困擾，請舉手。耶。我想應該如此的，不必驚訝。 如果你認為利用果蠅進行基本研究與了解人類精神疾病有關聯的話，請舉手。耶。我想應該如此的，我也不會感到驚訝。我知道在這裡我的任務非常困難， 正如Dr. Insel今早對我們說，精神疾病，如：自閉症、憂鬱症、精神分裂症等，讓人類遭受無比的痛苦，我們對精神疾病的治療和基本機制的了解比身體疾病的認識知道得更少，試想想：在2013年，21世紀第二個十年，如果你想進行癌症診斷，你會找醫師安排去做骨骼掃瞄、切片檢查和血液檢查。在2013年，如果你想進行憂鬱症診斷，你會找醫師，你會得到甚麼呢？一份問卷調查。部分導致目前的情況的原因是由於我們對精神疾病的生物基礎，持有過份簡單和越來越過時的觀點，我們傾向於認為大眾媒體對這觀點形成有所幫助和煽動 -腦中的化學物質失衡了，腦部就像一盒含化學物質成分的羹湯，充滿了多巴胺、血清素和去甲腎上腺素，這觀點取決於以下事實，很多治療這類疾病的處方藥物如百憂解(Prozac)，全面地改變了大腦化學物質，好像腦部確實是一盒含化學物質成分的羹湯。但這不是答案，因為這些藥物事實上不是那麼好，很多病人不會服用或者停止服用了，由於那些令人不快的副作用。這些藥物有那麼多副作用，用以治療複雜精神疾病，有點像更換引擎機油時，打開了罐，把機油傾倒在引擎本體上，部分流入了正確位置，但大部分弊大於利， 現在，一項新興觀點，今早你也從Dr. Insel那裡聽說過，說明精神疾病其實是神經中樞回路的擾亂，在感情、情緒和感動之間起中介作用。我們想起認知時，將腦部比喻為電腦，是沒有問題的。那麼證明了這比喻也可以應用到情緒上，只是我們不會有這樣子的想法。但是我們對精神疾病的回路基礎知道得很少，因為這個化學物質不平衡假設勢不可擋兼具主導地位。 化學物質在精神疾病中並不是不重要，只是他們不會在腦部沉浸，像羹湯一樣，而是將化學物質釋放在特定位置，作用於特定的突觸，以改變腦部資訊的流向。如果我們真的想理解精神疾病的生物基礎，就需要找出化學物質在腦部作用的位置，否則我們不停把精神機器加滿油，並遭受到痛苦的結果。 現在開始戰勝我們的無知，尤其腦部化學物質在腦部回路中的角色，對於我們生物學家稱為「模式生物」的研究還有幫助，一些動物如果蠅和實驗小鼠，我們能以強勁的基因技術在分子裡找出及確定特定類型的神經元，正如今早Allan Jones 所講。此外，當我們確定哪類型後，就能激活特定的神經元細胞，也能毀滅或抑制神經元的活動。如果我們抑制特定種類的神經元，就會發現某些行為被阻止了。我們可以得出這樣的結論，某些行為確實需要那些神經元。此外，如果我們激活某組的神經元細胞，就會發現那組細胞產生這行為，我們可以得出這樣的結論，那些神經元足以應付行為。由此可見，我們憑這樣的測試，能為特定神經元之間的活動其因果關係作出結論，尤其是特定的回路和特定的行為，現在還未能在人類身上作同樣測試，測試是極之困難的。 但是一個生物體例如果蠅 ─牠是非常重要的模式生物，因為它有一個細小的腦部，可以控制複雜的行為。它們繁殖得很快，價錢便宜。但是像這樣的生物體能否教導我們有關情緒狀態的事情嗎？究竟這些生物體有沒有情緒狀態或只是一些微小的數碼機械人？ 查爾斯·達爾文相信昆蟲也有情緒，並在行為中流露出來，1872年他把動物和人類的情緒表達寫進了專著中，與我齊名的同事Seymour Benzer同樣相信。在六十年代，Seymour於加州理工學院這裡，開始採用黑腹果蠅作為模式生物，去研究基因與行為之間的關係，在八十年代後期，Seymour招募我加入加州理工學院，他是我的絕地武師、猶太教教士，Seymour不僅教我愛上果蠅，還教我玩科學。 因此，我們該如何提出這問題呢？我們可以選擇相信蒼蠅有情緒狀態這回事，但如何事實上分辨真假呢？我們現在往往從人類面部表情推測情緒狀態，今天晚些你會聽到的，然而，有些難以在果蠅身上做到這一點，(笑聲)這像登陸火星一樣，在太空船上，望向窗外，被很多小綠人包圍，並試圖找出，「我怎樣找出他們有沒有情緒 ？」我們可以做些什麼呢？這不是那麼容易的。 那麼我們可以嘗試其中一個方法，就是盡量想出一些情緒狀態的特徵或屬性，例如警醒程度，看看能否找出一些果蠅行為，表現出那些屬性。因此，我能想到的三個重要屬性，就是堅持、漸變強度、效價。堅持即是要長期持久的，我們都知道刺激會引發情緒，就算刺激消失後， 情緒仍會持續一段很長時間。漸變強度即是它聽起來像什麼，您可以把情緒強度增加或減少，如果你有點兒不高興，你的嘴角會向下，你也會流鼻涕，如果你真的不高興，淚水傾瀉而下，那麼你可會抽泣。效價是指「好」還是「壞」，「正面」或「負面」， 因此，我們決定去看看果蠅可否被激怒後，展示出那種行為，就像那些出現在野餐桌上聞名遐爾的黃蜂，對吧，總是徘徊到你的漢堡包，你趕走得越起勁，它似乎變得更惱火。因此，我們製造了一個裝置，稱為噴風墊 (""puff-o-mat"")，我們可以把短暫的空氣噴到果蠅，就在我們實驗室台上的塑膠管裡，吹走他們。我們還發現如果給這些果蠅在噴風墊上連續噴氣幾次，他們變得有些過動，在停止噴空氣後，還繼續到處跑了一段時間，好一會才冷靜下來。因此，我們使用自訂的運動跟踪軟件去量化這種行為，這軟件由我的協作者彼得羅佩羅娜(Pietro Perona)開發，他在加州理工學院這裡的電氣工程系工作，這些量化數據顯示出當果蠅遇到這些噴氣管時，就會進入過動狀態，而且是持久的，然後我們會評分。多噴些空氣、或噴出更強烈的空氣，使這狀態持續較長一段的時間。 所以，現在我們嘗試去了解那些東西可控制此狀態多久。我們決定使用噴風墊和自動運動跟踪軟件，通過對數百串突變果蠅進行篩選，看看能否發現對噴氣產生任何異常反應。而這是關於果蠅最棒的地方之一，你可以拿起電話筒接駁到儲存庫，訂購幾百瓶不同突變型式的果蠅，在分析試驗中進行篩選，然後找出哪些基因受到突變的影響。因此，做了篩選後，我們發現一個突變，使果蠅在噴氣後，需要比正常更多一點的時間才平靜下來，當我們研究這個基因如何受到突變的影響時，整件事變成將一個多巴胺受體進行編碼。這是正確的 - 果蠅也分泌多巴胺，就像人一樣，而通過多巴胺受體，它作用於大腦和突觸，而你和我也擁有相同的受體分子。在大腦中，多巴胺發揮了一些重要作用，包括注意力、警醒、報應，而多巴胺系統的疾病與很多精神疾病互相關聯的，例如：濫用藥物、帕金森氏病、注意力不足過動症等。 現時，在遺傳學上，這是有點違反直覺的。我們傾向於推斷，當我們把某東西拿走時，那正常功能也會跟著消失，與之相反，當我們拿走它時，看到了什麼。所以當我們拿掉多巴胺受體時，果蠅需要較長時間冷靜下來，由此推斷，這些受體和多巴胺的正常功能，就是導致果蠅在噴氣後較快冷靜下來的原因。也有點讓人聯想到注意力不足過動症，已被證實與人類多巴胺系統疾病有關。事實上，如果我們用可卡因餵養正常果蠅，以增加多巴胺的水平，在取得美國緝毒局許可證的情況下，噢！我的天呀！ - (笑聲) -事實上，我們發現這些體內含可卡因的蒼蠅，比正常果蠅較快冷靜下來，也讓人聯想到注意力不足過動症，醫師常處方藥物如利他能，與可卡因的作用相近。因此，我慢慢地開始了解到，試圖惹惱果蠅，這個頗為有趣的玩笑，實際上可能與人類精神疾病相關。 現在，這個比喻有多貼題？正如你們許多人知道，注意力不足過動症患者也有學習障礙。多巴胺受體發生突變的果蠅也是如此嗎？令人意想不到的是，答案是肯定的。Seymour於七十年代己指出，果蠅像燕雀一樣，正如你剛聽到的，也有學習的能力。你可以訓練果蠅迴避一股氣味，此處顯示為藍色，如果你將那種氣味與震驚來進行配對，然後，讓那些受過訓練的果蠅有機會在與震驚配對的氣味和另一氣味的塑膠管之間進行選擇，果蠅迴避了含有與震驚搭配含藍色氣味的塑膠管，好的，如果你在多巴胺受體突變的果蠅身上進行這項測試，他們不會學習，他們的學習分數為零，在加州理工學院考試不及格而退學。 實驗結果顯示這些果蠅有兩種異常，或顯型，如我們遺傳學家稱他們為，過動和學習障礙，注意力不足過動症中找到的，在兩個顯型之間，如有的話，是什麼樣的因果關係呢？在注意力不足過動症中，往往假設過動造成了學習障礙。小孩坐也坐不住，無法集中注意力，所以不能學習。也可會是同樣的情況，學習障礙造成了過動。由於孩子無法學習，他們得尋找其他事來分散注意力。最後的可能是學習障礙和過動之間根本沒有關係。但是他們由一個過動症的共同內在機制所造成的。 長久以來人們一直想知道人體上的機制，但是我們可以在果蠅身上實際測試，而我們這樣做的方式是深入鑽研果蠅的頭腦，開始採用遺傳基因以解開其回路，我們拿掉突變果蠅的多巴胺受體，然後以遺傳學方法，修復或治療多巴胺受體，把多巴胺受體基因的好拷貝放回果蠅腦中，但是在每隻果蠅身上，我們只放回某些神經元，不是其他神經元，然後我們測試每隻果蠅的學習和過動的能力。 我們出奇地發現，兩種異常可完全分離。如果我們把多巴胺受體的好拷貝放回這個橢圓形的中央複合體，果蠅就不再過動，但仍不能學習，另一方面，我們把受體放到別的組織，名為蕈狀體，學習缺陷從而得以倖免，果蠅便好好學習，但他們仍然過動。這事告訴我們，多巴胺沒有在這些果蠅大腦中像羹湯一樣沐浴，相反，它對兩個不同回路上的兩個不同功能，擔任控制角色，所以有兩件關於果蠅多巴胺受體的事情是錯誤了，是同一個受體控制腦部兩個不同區域的兩個不同功能。我們不知道同樣的事情在人類的注意力不足過動症上是否相同，但是這些結果至少導致我們考慮那個可能性， 所以這些結果使我和我的同事更加深信，腦部不是一盒含化學物質的羹湯，把治療複雜的精神疾病看成改變羹湯味道是錯誤的。我們需要運用聰明才智和科學知識，去嘗試設計新一代的治療方法，針對特定的神經元和特定的腦部區域，受特定精神疾病所影響的，如果我們能夠做到這點，或者可治癒這些疾病，而沒有令人不快的副作用，把汽油加回我們的精神引擎，這就是那裡所需要的。謝謝。"
