Talk	en	zh-tw
david_camarillo_why_helmets_don_t_prevent_concussions_and_what_might	"The word concussion evokes a fear these days more so than it ever has, and I know this personally. I played 10 years of football, was struck in the head thousands of times. And I have to tell you, though, what was much worse than that was a pair of bike accidents I had where I suffered concussions, and I'm still dealing with the effects of the most recent one today as I stand in front of you. There is a fear around concussion that does have some evidence behind it. There is information that a repeated history of concussion can lead to early dementia, such as Alzheimer's, and chronic traumatic encephalopathy. That was the subject of the Will Smith movie ""Concussion."" And so everybody is caught up in football and what they see in the military, but you may not know that bike riding is the leading cause of concussion for kids, sports-related concussion, that is. And so another thing that I should tell you that you may not know is that the helmets that are worn in bicycling and football and many activities, they're not designed or tested for how well they can protect your children against concussion. They're in fact designed and tested for their ability to protect against skull fracture. And so I get this question all the time from parents, and they ask me, ""Would you let your own child play football?"" Or, ""Should I let my child play soccer?"" And I think that as a field, we're a long way from giving an answer with any kind of confidence there. So I look at that question from a bit of a different lens, and I want to know, how can we prevent concussion? Is that even possible? And most experts think that it's not, but the work that we're doing in my lab is starting to reveal more of the details around concussion so that we can have a better understanding. The reason we're able to prevent skull fracture with helmets is because it's pretty simple. We know how it works. Concussion has been much more of a mystery. So to give you a sense of what might be happening in a concussion, I want to show you the video here that you see when you type into Google, ""What is a concussion?"" The CDC website comes up, and this video essentially tells the whole story. What you see is the head moves forward, the brain lags behind, then the brain catches up and smashes into the skull. It rebounds off the skull and then proceeds to run into the other side of the skull. And what you'll notice is highlighted in this video from the CDC, which I'll note was funded by the NFL, is that the outer surface of the brain, where it was to have smashed into the skull, looks like it's been damaged or injured, so it's on the outer surface of the brain. And what I'd like to do with this video is to tell you that there are some aspects that are probably right, indicative of what the scientists think happens with concussion, but there's probably more that's wrong with this video. So one thing that I do agree with, and I think most experts would, is that the brain does have these dynamics. It does lag behind the skull and then catch up and move back and forth and oscillate. That we think is true. However, the amount of motion you see in the brain in this video is probably not right at all. There's very little room in the cranial vault, only a few millimeters, and it's filled entirely with cerebral spinal fluid, which acts as a protective layer. And so the brain as a whole probably moves very little inside the skull. The other problem with this video is that the brain is shown as a kind of rigid whole as it moves around, and that's not true either. Your brain is one of the softest substances in your body, and you can think of it kind of like jello. So as your head is moving back and forth, your brain is twisting and turning and contorting, and the tissue is getting stretched. And so most experts, I think, would agree that concussion is not likely to be something that's happening on this outer surface of the brain, but rather it's something that's much deeper towards the center of the brain. Now, the way that we're approaching this problem to try to understand the mechanisms of concussion and to figure out if we can prevent it is we are using a device like this. It's a mouthguard. It has sensors in it that are essentially the same that are in your cell phone: accelerometers, gyroscopes, and when someone is struck in the head, it can tell you how their head moved at a thousand samples per second. The principle behind the mouthguard is this: it fits onto your teeth. Your teeth are one of the hardest substances in your body. So it rigidly couples to your skull and gives you the most precise possible measurement of how the skull moves. People have tried other approaches, with helmets. We've looked at other sensors that go on your skin, and they all simply move around too much, and so we found that this is the only reliable way to take a good measurement. So now that we've got this device, we can go beyond studying cadavers, because you can only learn so much about concussion from studying a cadaver, and we want to learn and study live humans. So where can we find a group of willing volunteers to go out and smash their heads into each other on a regular basis and sustain concussion? Well, I was one of them, and it's your local friendly Stanford football team. So this is our laboratory, and I want to show you the first concussion we measured with this device. One of the things that I should point out is the device has this gyroscope in it, and that allows you to measure the rotation of the head. Most experts think that that's the critical factor that might start to tell us what is happening in concussion. So please watch this video. Announcer: Cougars bring extra people late, but Luck has time, and Winslow is crushed. I hope he's all right. (Audience roars) Top of your screen, you'll see him come on just this little post route, get separation, safety. Here it comes at you in real speed. You'll hear this. The hit delivered by — David Camarillo: Sorry, three times is probably a little excessive there. But you get the idea. So when you look at just the film here, pretty much the only thing you can see is he got hit really hard and he was hurt. But when we extract the data out of the mouthguard that he was wearing, we can see much more detail, much richer information. And one of the things that we noticed here is that he was struck in the lower left side of his face mask. And so that did something first that was a little counterintuitive. His head did not move to the right. In fact, it rotated first to the left. Then as the neck began to compress, the force of the blow caused it to whip back to the right. So this left-right motion was sort of a whiplash-type phenomenon, and we think that is probably what led to the brain injury. Now, this device is only limited in such that it can measure the skull motion, but what we really want to know is what's happening inside of the brain. So we collaborate with Svein Kleiven's group in Sweden. They've developed a finite element model of the brain. And so this is a simulation using the data from our mouthguard from the injury I just showed you, and what you see is the brain — this is a cross-section right in the front of the brain twisting and contorting as I mentioned. So you can see this doesn't look a lot like the CDC video. Now, the colors that you're looking at are how much the brain tissue is being stretched. And so the red is 50 percent. That means the brain has been stretched to 50 percent of its original length, the tissue in that particular area. And the main thing I want to draw your attention to is this red spot. So the red spot is very close to the center of the brain, and relatively speaking, you don't see a lot of colors like that on the exterior surface as the CDC video showed. Now, to explain a little more detail about how we think concussion might be happening, one thing I should mention is that we and others have observed that a concussion is more likely when you're struck and your head rotates in this direction. This is more common in sports like football, but this seems to be more dangerous. So what might be happening there? Well, one thing that you'll notice in the human brain that is different than other animals is we have these two very large lobes. We have the right brain and the left brain. And the key thing to notice in this figure here is that right down the center of the right brain and the left brain there's a large fissure that goes deep into the brain. And in that fissure, what you can't see in this image, you'll have to trust me, there is a fibrous sheet of tissue. It's called the falx, and it runs from the front of your head all the way to the back of your head, and it's quite stiff. And so what that allows for is when you're struck and your head rotates in this left-right direction, forces can rapidly transmit right down to the center of your brain. Now, what's there at the bottom of this fissure? It's the wiring of your brain, and in fact this red bundle here at the bottom of that fissure is the single largest fiber bundle that is the wiring that connects the right and left sides of your brain. It's called the corpus callosum. And we think that this might be one of the most common mechanisms of concussion, and as the forces move down, they strike the corpus callosum, it causes a dissociation between your right and your left brain and could explain some of the symptoms of concussion. This finding is also consistent of what we've seen in this brain disease that I mentioned, chronic traumatic encephalopathy. So this is an image of a middle-aged ex-professional football player, and the thing that I want to point out is if you look at the corpus callosum, and I'll page back here so you can see the size of a normal corpus callosum and the size of the person here who has chronic traumatic encephalopathy, it is greatly atrophied. And the same goes for all of the space in the ventricles. These ventricles are much larger. And so all of this tissue near the center of the brain has died off over time. So what we're learning is indeed consistent. Now, there is some good news here, and I hope to give you a sense of hope by the end of this talk. One of the things that we've noticed, specifically about this mechanism of injury, is although there's a rapid transmission of the forces down this fissure, it still takes a defined amount of time. And what we think is that if we can slow the head down just enough so that the brain does not lag behind the skull but instead it moves in synchrony with the skull, then we might be able to prevent this mechanism of concussion. So how can we slow the head down? (Laughter) A gigantic helmet. So with more space, you have more time, and this is a bit of a joke, but some of you may have seen this. This is bubble soccer, and it's a real sport. In fact, I saw some young adults playing this sport down the street from my house the other day, and as far as I know there have been no reported concussions. (Laughter) But in all seriousness, this principle does work, but this has gone too far. This isn't something that's practical for bike riding or playing football. And so we are collaborating with a company in Sweden called Hövding. Some of you may have seen their work, and they're using the same principle of air to give you some extra space to prevent concussion. Kids, don't try this at home please. This stuntman does not have a helmet. He instead has a neck collar, and this neck collar has sensors in it, the same type of sensors that are in our mouthguard, and it detects when he's likely to have a fall, and there's an airbag that explodes and triggers, the same way that an airbag works in your car, essentially. And in the experiments we've done in my lab with their device, we found that it can greatly reduce the risk of concussion in some scenarios compared to a normal bicycle helmet. So it's a pretty exciting development. But in order for us to actually realize the benefits of technology that can prevent concussion, it needs to meet regulations. That's a reality. And this device is for sale in Europe but is not for sale in the US, and probably won't be any time soon. So I wanted to tell you why. There are some good reasons and then there are some not so good reasons. Bike helmets are federally regulated. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been given jurisdiction to approve any bike helmet for sale, and this is the test they use. This is back to what I was telling you at the beginning about skull fracture. That's what this test is for. And that's an important thing to do. It can save your life, but it's not sufficient, I would say. So for example, one thing this test doesn't evaluate is it doesn't tell you is that airbag going to trigger at the right time and place, and not trigger when it doesn't need to? Similarly, it's not going to tell you is this helmet likely to prevent concussion or not? And if you look at football helmets, which aren't regulated, they still have a very similar test. They're not regulated by the government, anyway. They have an industry body, which is the way most industries work. But this industry body, I can tell you, has been quite resistant to updating their standards. So in my lab, we are working on not only the mechanism of concussion, but we want to understand how can we have better test standards? And we hope that the government can use this type of information to encourage innovation by letting consumers know how protected are you with a given helmet. And I want to bring this back finally to the original question I asked, which is, would I feel comfortable letting my child play football or ride a bicycle? And this might be just a result of my own traumatic experience. I'm much more nervous about my daughter, Rose, riding a bicycle. So she's a year and a half old, and she's already, well, wants to anyway, race down the streets of San Francisco. This is the bottom of one of these streets. And so my personal goal is to — and I believe this is possible — is to further develop these technologies, and in fact, we're working on something in my lab in particular that really makes optimal use of the given space of a helmet. And I am confident that we will be able to, before she's ready to ride a two-wheeler, have something available that can in fact really reduce the risk of concussion and comply with regulatory bodies. And so what I'd like to do — and I know that this is for some of you of more immediate nature, I've got a couple years here — is to be able to tell parents and grandparents when I'm asked, it is safe and healthy for your children to engage in these activities. And I'm very fortunate to have a wonderful team at Stanford that's working hard on this. So I hope to come back in a few years with the final story, but for now I will tell you, please don't just be afraid when you hear the word concussion. There is hope. Thank you. (Applause)"	"現在聽到腦震盪這詞比起以往更加恐懼，這是我個人感受。我打美式足球已經有十年了，頭部被擊中數千次。不過我想告訴你，比起這事還有更糟的就是被兩架單車撞致腦震盪，這件事近期仍然影響我日常生活幸好今日我可如常站在你們面前。 對於腦震盪仍然圍繞著恐懼因為背後確實有些證據。還有一些資訊重複顯示腦震盪的歷史可能會導致早期老年癡呆症，例如:阿爾茨海默氏症，以及慢性創傷性腦病。由威爾‧史密斯主演的《震盪效應》是一部2015年美式足球傳記劇情片，就是今日的主題。電影中講述每個人都要了解美式足球就好像在軍中所看到平凡事一樣，可能你未必知道對於兒童來說踏單車是引致腦震盪的主要原因，那麼，運動與腦震盪是有關連。還有另一件事我應該告訴你可能你未必知道踏單車也好，踢美式足球也好都必須配戴頭盔還有其他戶外運動亦需要配戴，由於現時的運動頭盔並沒有仔細設計或進行測試故此難易保護兒童防止腦震盪發生。實際上在設計及測試方面應要有預防及保護頭骨骨折能力。 所以每時每刻我都從家長那兒得到這個問題，他們問我，""你會讓你的孩子踢美式足球嗎？""又或者會問，""我應該讓我的孩子踢美式足球嗎？作為一個前美式足球員，當中要找到答案的確還有很長的路要走。 稍為從不同的角度去看這條問題，我們應如何預防腦震盪？真的有可能嗎？大多數專家認為這是不可能的，不過在這項研究已經在我的實驗室進行中我會開始披露更多與腦震盪有關的細節讓我們有更好的理解。我們之所以配戴頭盔主要用來預防頭骨破裂就是這麼簡單。我們明明知道頭盔的作用。可惜腦震盪仍然充滿著謎團。 你會覺得腦震盪沒可能發生的，我想在這裡放影少少片段你亦可以鍵入到谷歌，鍵入""什麼是腦震盪？""也可在疾病預防控制中心的網站上找到，整個足本的影片。現在留意這個頭部向前移動，大腦先向後撞到，然後大腦再向後傾並撞向頭骨。再回彈到頭骨然後繼續進行到了另一邊的頭骨。由疾控中心提供這影片當中顯然你都注意到，這是國家美式足球聯盟贊助，那是大腦表面的四周，頭骨明顯被撞擊，看起來大腦表面周邊，像已損毀或受創。我估計做這段影片目的想告訴你某些觀點可能是對的，表明了有科學家認為曾經產生過腦震盪，不過這段影片中有很多地方弄錯了。 有一件事我與大多數專家都認同的，就是大腦曾有動力學的變化。確實頭骨先向後再向前繼而前後擺動。我認為這是事實。然而，從影片中可以看到大腦擺動次數但這點可能沒根據。在大腦與頭頂骨之間有一個很細的空間，只有幾毫米，而且完全充滿腦脊髓液，這角色就是要充當一個保護層。因為整個大腦在頭骨內變化得很少。 這影片內另一個問題是大腦的顯示作為一種堅硬的整體怎可以四處移動，而事實並非如此。你的大腦是你的身體上最柔軟的物質之一，你能想到的它有點像果凍。所以當你的頭部來來回回移動著，你的大腦就會彎彎曲曲的旋轉和被扭曲，及組織會被拉長。所以大多數專家，我想，都會同意腦震盪不太可能像這樣子發生的在大腦表面周邊，對比起其他東西這是更深層接近大腦中心點。 現在，用我們的方式去解說這個問題嘗試去理解腦震盪的機制假設我們可以預防便更要弄清楚我們使用類似的設備。這是一個牙套。牙套上有一個感應器本質是相同的這是在你的手機上：加速度計，陀螺儀，當有人頭部被擊中，這兩部儀器可以告訴你他們的頭部是怎樣移動舉例說每秒一千樣。背後的原理該牙套是這樣的：將牙套套在你的牙齒上。你的牙齒是身體上最堅硬的物質之一。也是堅固地連接到你的頭骨並為你提供最精確合適的測量頭骨是如何移動的。人們嘗試其他的方法，配帶頭盔。或會利用其他感應器就是你的皮膚，因為左右走動太多，所以我們發現，牙套感應器是唯一可靠的方法也是取得最好的測量方式。 這個設備我們現在已經擁有了，並利用屍體作為研究，因此想了解更多關於腦震盪就是只能從屍體上學習，如要從活生生的人類當中研究的話。需要找一群志願者定期去粉碎他們的頭部並要認定已遭受了腦震盪？對吧，我就是他們其中之一，你們本地友好斯坦福大學美式足球隊。 就在我的實驗室在中，我想展示給你們看我們用這設備進行了第一次腦震盪測量。我想指出今次是利用陀螺儀裝置設備，來測量頭部旋轉情況。因為大多數專家認為這就是關鍵因素正式開始告訴我們腦震盪是如何形成。請先觀看這段影片。 評述員︰ 美洲獅遲遲才帶人來，但盧克仍有時間，可惜與溫思勞撞過正面。我希望他沒事。 （影片中觀眾怒吼一聲） 請留意螢光幕上方，他好像沿著一條小小的路線衝過去，被撞到彈開了，幸好沒大礙。聽說就在這裡才會感受到真正的速度。交由命運安排 — 大衛卡馬里奧：對不起，撞擊三次實在有一點過分。你有什麼想法。 當你只是在這裡看著的影片時，幾乎你可以看見唯一的事情就是他們真正被撞擊和受傷。但當我們提取資料時發現原來他有配戴牙套的，我們可以看到更詳細的，更豐富的信息。以及我們在這裡看到其中的一件事情發生就是他面具左下方被撞擊到。第一時間覺得有點不合常理。他的腦部沒有移動到右邊。事實上，腦部應先轉動到左邊。然後隨著頸部開始受壓，由衝擊力引致腦部迅速撞回右邊。所以這個左右移動類似那種揮鞭現象，我們認為就是這樣導致了腦部受傷。 由於，這種裝置只局限於測量頭骨移動，所以我們真的很想知道在大腦內究竟發生了什麼變化。故此我們在瑞典，與斯韋恩·凱文的研究小組合作。他們已經利用有限元素法去探討大腦。這是一種模擬狀態研究數據主要來自損壞的牙套資料就是我剛才這段影片，從這片段的大腦你可以看到什麼 —前面就是大腦右邊橫切面正如我所提及的大腦有扭曲及被扭斷。你們現在看到的與疾控中心的影片完全不同現在，你看到的顏色有多少腦組織被撐大了。所顯示50%紅色。就是意味著大腦被撐大程度比起原來的大出50%這組織在該特定區域。 我想用這個紅點來引起你們注意。紅點是非常接近大腦中心，相對來說，在外層表面並沒看到太多類似的顏色從疾控中心的影片中顯示。 但現在，我需要來解釋更多細節關於我們認為發生腦震盪的可能性，有一件事我必須要提及就是我們和其他人已經觀察到有傾向腦震盪的跡象當你被撞擊時你的頭部會從這個方向旋轉。這種情況普遍性發生在美式足球運動內，似乎相比其他運動更加危險。那裡會有什麼事發生呢？好吧，有件事你要注意就是人類的大腦與其他動物不同我們有兩個非常大的額葉。我們有右腦和左腦。請留意圖中最關鍵的事情就是右腦與左的腦的中間位置這裡一個大裂縫竟然深進入大腦。那裂縫，你不能在此圖片中看到，請相信我，那是纖維組織表。被稱為大腦鐮大腦鐮從你的腦前額開始運行然後用盡任何方式走到你的後腦，而且非常僵硬。當你受到撞擊你還等什麼你的大腦左右旋轉的情況下，這個撞擊力迅速傳遞直到你的大腦中心。 那麼，裂縫的底部究竟有什麼？這是你大腦的路徑，事實上紅色一束束是裂縫的底部是單一最大的神經纖維束聯繫左右兩側大腦的主要路徑。被稱為胼胝體。我們認為這可能是其中最常見的腦震盪機制，當撞擊力向下移，便會撞擊胼胝體，你的左右腦之間會引致分裂這樣可以解釋到一些腦震盪的症狀。 調查結果發現與我們見到的也是一致在這個腦疾病中提及到，慢性創傷性腦病。圖中是一位中年人的腦部前職業美式足球運動員，你看看他的胼胝體，我想指出一點，先回到這頁，你可以看到正常的胼胝體的大小與這位中年人的胼胝體的大小那一位真正患有慢性創傷性腦病，大腦萎縮得非常。也是這樣對於所有的腦室的空間。這些腦室非常大。因此，所有這類組織當靠近大腦中心時隨著時間便會死亡。與我們學習的確實一致。 不過在這裡還有好的消息的，我希望透過這次演說帶給你們有希望的感覺。我們注意到一件事整體來說這種受傷的機制，雖然那種撞擊力快速傳輸到這裂縫處，仍然需要用時間來定義。我們的想法是，如果我們可以剛好將頭部減速大腦便不會落後於頭骨相反與頭骨同步移動，我們也許能夠防止這種腦震盪發生。 但如何將頭部慢下來？ （笑聲） 一個巨大的頭盔。因此需要更多空間，更多時間，這一點開玩笑，但你們當中可能已經看得出來。這是泡泡足球也是運動的一種。事實上，我看到一些年輕人在我家中附近的街道玩這運動，並就我所知沒有發生過腦震盪的報導。 (笑聲) 原則上這是高危運動，不能走得太遠。對於騎單車或踢足球來說泡泡足球是不需要練習。因此，我在瑞典與一家名為Hövding的公司携手合作。你們當中可能已經知道關於他們的工作，他們使用同樣充氣的道理額外加上一些空間去預防腦震盪。不過小朋友們請勿在家中嘗試。這個特技演員並沒有戴頭盔。他用了頸圈代替，他的頸圈有一個感應器，與我們用在牙套上的感應器相同，在他下墜在情形下便可檢測到，那是具有爆炸力和觸發器的氣袋基本上與你車上的安全氣袋用法一樣，這個實驗早已在我的實驗室完成了，我們發現利用氣袋技術可以大大減少腦震盪的風險相對於正常的單車頭盔。的確進展令人興奮。 為了讓我們真正實現氣袋技術的好處是可以防止腦震盪的，仍需要多點規條。這是事實。這設備在歐洲銷售而不在美國發售，可能時間不合適。我想告訴你們原因。有一些好的理由，然後有一些不太好的原因。 單車頭盔是聯邦政府監管。消費者產品安全委員會得到了司法管轄權批准任何單車頭盔出售，以及他們使用前的測試。回顧由我開始講述頭骨骨折。這是種測試可以為你做些什麼。還有一些重要的事項要做。我會說氣袋技術可以挽救你的生命，但這還是不足夠。舉個例子，如沒有評估這次測試沒有人可以告訴你那氣袋將會碰上觸發器在適當的時間和地點，當沒有這需要時便不會觸發到？同樣地，誰都不會告訴你就好像這個頭盔能防止腦震盪嗎？如果你看到這不合規格的美式足球頭盔，他們仍然有類同的測試。不管怎麼辦說他們不受政府監管。這是大多數行業的工作的方式。但這類機構，我可以告訴你，非常有抵禦力常更新標準。所以在我的實驗室，我們正在研究不僅腦震盪的機制，還想要瞭解如何可以有更好的測試標準？我們希望政府可以使用這種類型的資訊鼓勵創新好讓消費者知道頭盔應該是如何保護你。 最後我想帶回來這原來的問題， 就是我可以舒舒服服讓我孩子踢美式足球或騎單車嗎？從我自己的創傷經歷中得到這答案。我更緊張我的女兒，露斯，騎單車。所以在她以一歲半時，她已經做好準備，隨時在三藩市街道上比賽。這是一條街的盡頭。所以我個人的目標是的 — — 相信這是可能的 — —再進一步發展這些技術，事實上，我們正在努力特別是在我實驗室裡的東西給頭盔一個機會真正好好地使用，我很有信心將來我可以，在露斯要準備騎單車時，有一樣可以用的東西實際真正可以減少腦震盪的風險並遵守自己身體的法規。 所以這就是我想做的 — —我知道可以為你們直接做多一些，我已經有幾年在這裡 — —是要當有人問我而又能告訴父母和祖父母，鼓勵你的孩子在運動時應注意安全和健康。我非常慶倖我在斯坦福大學有一個隊令人讚嘆的團隊為這份工作努力。 隨著故事的發展我希望能在幾年後回來，但現在我會告訴你，當你聽見腦震盪這個名詞請不要害怕。這裡仍然有希望。 多謝。 (掌聲)"
