Talk	en	zh-tw
david_lang_my_underwater_robot	(Aquatic noises) So this video was taken at Aquarius undersea laboratory four miles off the coast of Key Largo, about 60 feet below the surface. NASA uses this extreme environment to train astronauts and aquanauts, and last year, they invited us along for the ride. All the footage was taken from our open ROV, which is a robot that we built in our garage. So ROV stands for Remote Operated Vehicle, which in our case means our little robot sends live video across that ultra-thin tether back to the computer topside. It's open source, meaning we publish and share all of our design files and all of our code online, allowing anyone to modify or improve or change the design. It's built with mostly off-the-shelf parts and costs about 1,000 times cheaper than the ROVs James Cameron used to explore the Titanic. So ROVs aren't new. They've been around for decades. Scientists use ROVs to explore the oceans. Oil and gas companies use them for exploration and construction. What we've built isn't unique. It's how we've built it that's really unique. So I want to give you a quick story of how it got started. So a few years ago, my friend Eric and I decided we wanted to explore this underwater cave in the foothills of the Sierras. We had heard this story about lost gold from a Gold Rush-era robbery, and we wanted to go up there. Unfortunately, we didn't have any money and we didn't have any tools to do it. So Eric had an initial design idea for a robot, but we didn't have all the parts figured out, so we did what anybody would do in our situation: we asked the Internet for help. More specifically, we created this website, openROV.com, and shared  our intentions and our plans For the first few months, it was just Eric and I talking back to each other on the forums, but pretty soon, we started to get feedback from makers and hobbyists, and then actually professional ocean engineers who had some suggestions for what we should do. We kept working on it. We learned a lot. We kept prototyping, and eventually, we decided we wanted to go  to the cave. We were ready. So about that time, our little expedition became quite a story, and it got picked up in The New York Times. And we were pretty much just overwhelmed with interest from people who wanted a kit that they could build this open ROV themselves. So we decided to put the project on Kickstarter, and when we did, we raised our funding goal in about two hours, and all of a sudden,  had this money to make these kits. But then we had to learn how to make them. I mean, we had to learn small batch manufacturing. So we quickly learned that our garage was not big enough to hold our growing operation. But we were able to do it, we got all the kits made, thanks a lot to TechShop, which was a big help to us, and we shipped these kits all over the world just before Christmas of last year, so it was just a few months ago. But we're already starting to get video and photos back from all over the world, including this shot from under the ice in Antarctica. We've also learned the penguins love robots. (Laughter) So we're still publishing all the designs online, encouraging anyone to build these themselves. That's the only way that we could have done this. By being open source, we've created this distributed R&D network, and we're moving faster than any venture-backed counterpart. But the actual robot is really only half the story. The real potential, the long term potential, is with this community of DIY ocean explorers that are forming all over the globe. What can we discover when there's thousands of these devices roaming the seas? So you're probably all wondering: the cave. Did you find the gold? Well, we didn't find any gold, but we decided that what we found was much more valuable. It was the glimpse into a potential future for ocean exploration. It's something that's not limited to the James Camerons of the world, but something that we're all participating in. It's an underwater world we're all exploring together. Thank you. (Applause)	(水中發出的聲音) 這段影片是在水瓶座海底實驗室所拍攝的實驗室離基拉戈海岸有四英里大約在海面下60英尺美國太空總署利用這種極端環境來訓練宇航員及深水操作員去年，他們邀請我們一起來一探究竟所有鏡頭皆由我們的開放式的 ROV 所拍攝它是我們在車庫做出來的一個機器人 而 ROV 是遠程遙控機器人的首字母縮寫在這裡就是指我們的小型水下機器人將現場的影片透過極細的繩子傳送到船上的電腦來源是公開的，也就是說我們會發布並共享所有我們設計的檔案以及網路上的密碼讓所有人都能修改改善或改變這個設計大部分影片都是現成的而且成本大概比詹姆斯·卡麥隆用來探勘鐵達尼號的ROV還便宜 1000 倍其實 ROV 不是一項新發明它們已經存在幾十年了科學家利用 ROV 來探索海底世界石油天然氣公司也用它們來探測及設廠我們所做的並不特別我們如何製作的才是重點 所以我想跟大家很快地說明一下一切是如何開始的幾年前，我和我朋友艾瑞克決定要一起探索這個位在內華達山麓的水下洞穴我們聽到有關遺失的金子故事發生在掏金時代的搶案中，我們想要去那可惜，我們沒有錢也沒有任何工具去做這件事所以Eric想了個點子，是關於機器人的初步設計但我們沒有解決所有的問題所以我們做了在這個情況下，大家都會做的事我們在網路上尋求幫助更特別的是，我們製作了這個網站openROV.com 並分享我們的目的與計劃一開始的幾個月，只有 Eric 跟我在論壇上互相討論但很快的，我們開始收到回應來自於製造業者及愛好者然後是真正專業的海洋工程師對於我們該做的事給了些建議我們持續努力，我們學到很多我們堅持製作原型，然後最終我們決定去那個洞，我們準備好了 所以那時我們的探險變成了特別的故事並且被紐約時報報導我們幾乎被這樣一群人給淹沒了他們對這個開放式的ROV的工具組很感興趣這樣他們就可以自己製造ROV 所以我們決定把這個計畫放到Kickstarter而當我們這麼做時大約在兩小前內我們募到了目標金額突然之間有了錢去生產這些裝備但我們必須去學習如何製造我指的是，我們必須學習小量的生產我們很快的發現到我們的車庫不足以支撐我們擴增的營運但我們有辦法做到，我們製造出這些設備非常感謝Techshop，幫了我們很多然後我們將這些裝備送至世界各地就在去年聖誕節前也就是幾個月前我們已經開始收到從世界各地拍攝的影片和圖片包括這張從南極洲冰下所拍攝的影像我們還發現企鵝喜歡機器人(笑聲) 所以我們持續在網路上公佈這些設計鼓勵所有人自己打造機器人這是我們可以完成的唯一方法借由開放式資源，我們已經建立了這個分散式的研究與設計網路我們的進展比其他有投資金支持的競爭者還要快但機器人只是故事的其中一半真正的潛力，真正長期的潛力是這個DIY的海洋探索社群遍布世界各地我們能發現什麼事物當有成千上萬的裝備漂流在海洋中時? 所以你大概會猜想：那個洞穴中有找到金子嗎？我們沒看到半點金子但是我們覺得我們因此而發現的東西比金子更有價值即一窺海洋探索潛在的未來這不再是只有詹姆斯·卡麥隆可觸及的領域而是大眾都可參與其中的事情這是一個水底世界我們一同去探索 謝謝 （掌聲）
