Talk	en	zh-tw
david_rothkopf_how_fear_drives_american_politics	"What I'd like to do is talk to you a little bit about fear and the cost of fear and the age of fear from which we are now emerging. I would like you to feel comfortable with my doing that by letting you know that I know something about fear and anxiety. I'm a Jewish guy from New Jersey. (Laughter) I could worry before I could walk. (Laughter) Please, applaud that. (Applause) Thank you. But I also grew up in a time where there was something to fear. We were brought out in the hall when I was a little kid and taught how to put our coats over our heads to protect us from global thermonuclear war. Now even my seven-year-old brain knew that wasn't going to work. But I also knew that global thermonuclear war was something to be concerned with. And yet, despite the fact that we lived for 50 years with the threat of such a war, the response of our government and of our society was to do wonderful things. We created the space program in response to that. We built our highway system in response to that. We created the Internet in response to that. So sometimes fear can produce a constructive response. But sometimes it can produce an un-constructive response. On September 11, 2001, 19 guys took over four airplanes and flew them into a couple of buildings. They exacted a horrible toll. It is not for us to minimize what that toll was. But the response that we had was clearly disproportionate — disproportionate to the point of verging on the unhinged. We rearranged the national security apparatus of the United States and of many governments to address a threat that, at the time that those attacks took place, was quite limited. In fact, according to our intelligence services, on September 11, 2001, there were 100 members of core Al-Qaeda. There were just a few thousand terrorists. They posed an existential threat to no one. But we rearranged our entire national security apparatus in the most sweeping way since the end of the Second World War. We launched two wars. We spent trillions of dollars. We suspended our values. We violated international law. We embraced torture. We embraced the idea that if these 19 guys could do this, anybody could do it. And therefore, for the first time in history, we were seeing everybody as a threat. And what was the result of that? Surveillance programs that listened in on the emails and phone calls of entire countries — hundreds of millions of people — setting aside whether those countries were our allies, setting aside what our interests were. I would argue that 15 years later, since today there are more terrorists, more terrorist attacks, more terrorist casualties — this by the count of the U.S. State Department — since today the region from which those attacks emanate is more unstable than at any time in its history, since the Flood, perhaps, we have not succeeded in our response. Now you have to ask, where did we go wrong? What did we do? What was the mistake that was made? And you might say, well look, Washington is a dysfunctional place. There are political food fights. We've turned our discourse into a cage match. And that's true. But there are bigger problems, believe it or not, than that dysfunction, even though I would argue that dysfunction that makes it impossible to get anything done in the richest and most powerful country in the world is far more dangerous than anything that a group like ISIS could do, because it stops us in our tracks and it keeps us from progress. But there are other problems. And the other problems came from the fact that in Washington and in many capitals right now, we're in a creativity crisis. In Washington, in think tanks, where people are supposed to be thinking of new ideas, you don't get bold new ideas, because if you offer up a bold new idea, not only are you attacked on Twitter, but you will not get confirmed in a government job. Because we are reactive to the heightened venom of the political debate, you get governments that have an us-versus-them mentality, tiny groups of people making decisions. When you sit in a room with a small group of people making decisions, what do you get? You get groupthink. Everybody has the same worldview, and any view from outside of the group is seen as a threat. That's a danger. You also have processes that become reactive to news cycles. And so the parts of the U.S. government that do foresight, that look forward, that do strategy — the parts in other governments that do this — can't do it, because they're reacting to the news cycle. And so we're not looking ahead. On 9/11, we had a crisis because we were looking the wrong way. Today we have a crisis because, because of 9/11, we are still looking in the wrong direction, and we know because we see transformational trends on the horizon that are far more important than what we saw on 9/11; far more important than the threat posed by these terrorists; far more important even than the instability that we've got in some areas of the world that are racked by instability today. In fact, the things that we are seeing in those parts of the world may be symptoms. They may be a reaction to bigger trends. And if we are treating the symptom and ignoring the bigger trend, then we've got far bigger problems to deal with. And so what are those trends? Well, to a group like you, the trends are apparent. We are living at a moment in which the very fabric of human society is being rewoven. If you saw the cover of The Economist a couple of days ago — it said that 80 percent of the people on the planet, by the year 2020, would have a smartphone. They would have a small computer connected to the Internet in their pocket. In most of Africa, the cell phone penetration rate is 80 percent. We passed the point last October when there were more mobile cellular devices, SIM cards, out in the world than there were people. We are within years of a profound moment in our history, when effectively every single human being on the planet is going to be part of a man-made system for the first time, able to touch anyone else — touch them for good, touch them for ill. And the changes associated with that are changing the very nature of every aspect of governance and life on the planet in ways that our leaders ought to be thinking about, when they're thinking about these immediate threats. On the security side, we've come out of a Cold War in which it was too costly to fight a nuclear war, and so we didn't, to a period that I call Cool War, cyber war, where the costs of conflict are actually so low, that we may never stop. We may enter a period of constant warfare, and we know this because we've been in it for several years. And yet, we don't have the basic doctrines to guide us in this regard. We don't have the basic ideas formulated. If someone attacks us with a cyber attack, do have the ability to respond with a kinetic attack? We don't know. If somebody launches a cyber attack, how do we deter them? When China launched a series of cyber attacks, what did the U.S. government do? It said, we're going to indict a few of these Chinese guys, who are never coming to America. They're never going to be anywhere near a law enforcement officer who's going to take them into custody. It's a gesture — it's not a deterrent. Special forces operators out there in the field today discover that small groups of insurgents with cell phones have access to satellite imagery that once only superpowers had. In fact, if you've got a cell phone, you've got access to power that a superpower didn't have, and would have highly classified 10 years ago. In my cell phone, I have an app that tells me where every plane in the world is, and its altitude, and its speed, and what kind of aircraft it is, and where it's going and where it's landing. They have apps that allow them to know what their adversary is about to do. They're using these tools in new ways. When a cafe in Sydney was taken over by a terrorist, he went in with a rifle... and an iPad. And the weapon was the iPad. Because he captured people, he terrorized them, he pointed the iPad at them, and then he took the video and he put it on the Internet, and he took over the world's media. But it doesn't just affect the security side. The relations between great powers — we thought we were past the bipolar era. We thought we were in a unipolar world, where all the big issues were resolved. Remember? It was the end of history. But we're not. We're now seeing that our basic assumptions about the Internet — that it was going to connect us, weave society together — are not necessarily true. In countries like China, you have the Great Firewall of China. You've got countries saying no, if the Internet happens within our borders we control it within our borders. We control the content. We are going to control our security. We are going to manage that Internet. We are going to say what can be on it. We're going to set a different set of rules. Now you might think, well, that's just China. But it's not just China. It's China, India, Russia. It's Saudi Arabia, it's Singapore, it's Brazil. After the NSA scandal, the Russians, the Chinese, the Indians, the Brazilians, they said, let's create a new Internet backbone, because we can't be dependent on this other one. And so all of a sudden, what do you have? You have a new bipolar world in which cyber-internationalism, our belief, is challenged by cyber-nationalism, another belief. We are seeing these changes everywhere we look. We are seeing the advent of mobile money. It's happening in the places you wouldn't expect. It's happening in Kenya and Tanzania, where millions of people who haven't had access to financial services now conduct all those services on their phones. There are 2.5 million people who don't have financial service access that are going to get it soon. A billion of them are going to have the ability to access it on their cell phone soon. It's not just going to give them the ability to bank. It's going to change what monetary policy is. It's going to change what money is. Education is changing in the same way. Healthcare is changing in the same way. How government services are delivered is changing in the same way. And yet, in Washington, we are debating whether to call the terrorist group that has taken over Syria and Iraq ISIS or ISIL or Islamic State. We are trying to determine how much we want to give in a negotiation with the Iranians on a nuclear deal which deals with the technologies of 50 years ago, when in fact, we know that the Iranians right now are engaged in cyber war with us and we're ignoring it, partially because businesses are not willing to talk about the attacks that are being waged on them. And that gets us to another breakdown that's crucial, and another breakdown that couldn't be more important to a group like this, because the growth of America and real American national security and all of the things that drove progress even during the Cold War, was a public-private partnership between science, technology and government that began when Thomas Jefferson sat alone in his laboratory inventing new things. But it was the canals and railroads and telegraph; it was radar and the Internet. It was Tang, the breakfast drink — probably not the most important of those developments. But what you had was a partnership and a dialogue, and the dialogue has broken down. It's broken down because in Washington, less government is considered more. It's broken down because there is, believe it or not, in Washington, a war on science — despite the fact that in all of human history, every time anyone has waged a war on science, science has won. (Applause) But we have a government that doesn't want to listen, that doesn't have people at the highest levels that understand this. In the nuclear age, when there were people in senior national security jobs, they were expected to speak throw-weight. They were expected to know the lingo, the vocabulary. If you went to the highest level of the U.S. government now and said, ""Talk to me about cyber, about neuroscience, about the things that are going to change the world of tomorrow,"" you'd get a blank stare. I know, because when I wrote this book, I talked to 150 people, many from the science and tech side, who felt like they were being shunted off to the kids' table. Meanwhile, on the tech side, we have lots of wonderful people creating wonderful things, but they started in garages and they didn't need the government and they don't want the government. Many of them have a political view that's somewhere between libertarian and anarchic: leave me alone. But the world's coming apart. All of a sudden, there are going to be massive regulatory changes and massive issues associated with conflict and massive issues associated with security and privacy. And we haven't even gotten to the next set of issues, which are philosophical issues. If you can't vote, if you can't have a job, if you can't bank, if you can't get health care, if you can't be educated without Internet access, is Internet access a fundamental right that should be written into constitutions? If Internet access is a fundamental right, is electricity access for the 1.2 billion who don't have access to electricity a fundamental right? These are fundamental issues. Where are the philosophers? Where's the dialogue? And that brings me to the reason that I'm here. I live in Washington. Pity me. (Laughter) The dialogue isn't happening there. These big issues that will change the world, change national security, change economics, create hope, create threats, can only be resolved when you bring together groups of people who understand science and technology back together with government. Both sides need each other. And until we recreate that connection, until we do what helped America grow and helped other countries grow, then we are going to grow ever more vulnerable. The risks associated with 9/11 will not be measured in terms of lives lost by terror attacks or buildings destroyed or trillions of dollars spent. They'll be measured in terms of the costs of our distraction from critical issues and our inability to get together scientists, technologists, government leaders, at a moment of transformation akin to the beginning of the Renaissance, akin to the beginning of the major transformational eras that have happened on Earth, and start coming up with, if not the right answers, then at least the right questions. We are not there yet, but discussions like this and groups like you are the places where those questions can be formulated and posed. And that's why I believe that groups like TED, discussions like this around the planet, are the place where the future of foreign policy, of economic policy, of social policy, of philosophy, will ultimately take place. And that's why it's been a pleasure speaking to you. Thank you very, very much. (Applause)"	今天我要做的是和各位稍微談談恐懼這件事，以及恐懼的代價，還有正在浮現的恐懼時代。如果我告訴你們我對恐懼和焦慮有所瞭解的話。希望這可以讓你們感到舒服些我是個來自紐澤西的猶太人。 (笑聲) 在我學會走路之前就學會憂慮了。 (笑聲) 請為此給點掌聲。 (掌聲) 謝謝。 但是我的確在一個令人憂慮的時代長大。在我還是個小孩時，我們就被帶到門廊，大人教導我們如何把外套套在頭上，以保護自己在全球熱核戰爭中免受侵害。現在想想，即使我七歲的腦袋，都知道那沒用。但我同時也知道，全球熱核戰爭確實是需要擔憂的事情。 但是，儘管我們有50年的時間都活在這個戰爭的威脅裡，我們的政府和社會對此的回應卻是做出一些很棒的事。作為回應，我們建立了太空計畫作為回應，作為回應，我們我們建造了公路系統網際網路作為回應，我們創造了網際網路所以恐懼有時能促使一些建設性的回應。但有時也會產生無用的的回應。 2001年9月11日，19個人劫持了四架飛機，將他們開向幾棟大樓。他們帶來了恐怖的傷亡。這傷亡並非我們所能減少的。但我們的回應卻很明顯地與此不成比例 —不成比例到幾乎要精神分裂。我們重整美國國家安全的機關和許多相關的政府單位來對付像當時這樣的恐怖攻擊，這樣有限的威脅。事實上，根據我們的情報局，在2001年9月11日，蓋達組織的核心成員數是100人。恐怖分子的人數也只有幾千人。而他們對誰有著持續存在的威脅?沒有。 但我們在二次世界大戰後，就用最全面徹底的方式重整我們整個國家安全機關。我們發動了兩個戰爭。我們花了好幾兆美金。我們擱置了自己的價值觀。我們違反了國際法。我們信奉酷刑這套。我們接受這個想法：如果有19個人做這種事，全世界的人都有可能做這種事。也因為這樣，歷史上頭一遭，我們把每個人都視為威脅。這麼做的結果是什麼?監控程式不斷監聽電子郵件和電話，針對全世界所有國家 —好幾億人口 —不顧那些國家是否是我們的同盟國，不顧國家利益在哪裡。我認為在未來的15年，從今天開始世上會有更多恐怖份子，更多恐怖攻擊行動、更多不幸傷亡—來自美國國務院的統計—今天之後恐怖攻擊發送的區域會比歷史上任何時刻更不規則，恐怕在這波恐怖浪潮之後，我們還沒有成功做出過回應。 現在你們得問，我們哪裡做錯了?我們做了什麼? 犯了什麼錯?然後你可能會說，看吧，華府就是個功能失調的地方。存在許多政治鬥爭。我們把許多對談變成鐵籠格鬥。這是事實。但不管你信不信，還有比這種功失調更大的問題，儘管我主張這種讓世上最富裕、最強盛國家無法完成任何事情的功能失調，遠比任何像ISIS這樣的組織所做的事更加危險，因為這讓我們脫離軌道、無法進步。 但還有其他問題。而這些問題來自華府與許多重要城市，現在面臨的創意危機。在華府的智囊團裡，原本人們應該不斷想出新主意，但現在你不會看到任何大膽的新主意，因為每當你提出大膽的新主意，不只會在推特上遭到抨擊，還可能無法繼續在政府體系工作。因為我們需要顧慮政治鬥爭的遺毒，我們的政府都有選邊站的心態，都是小團體在進行決策。當你坐在一個房間裡，少數一群人做決策，你會得到什麼?你得到集體思維。每個人有著一樣的世界觀，而任何群體外的人的觀點都被視為威脅。這是很危險的。你也正在經歷被新聞連播牽著走的過程。所以當部分美國政府在長遠規畫、在向前看、在做策略時—其他政府都可以做的事情— 將無從施展，因為他們需要顧慮媒體言論。所以我們並沒有在向前看。 在911，我們的危機來自過去沒看到正確方向。今天我們的危機來自，因為911的緣故，我們還是沒看到正確的方向，而且我們知道因為我們看見即將來臨的變革趨勢遠比我們在911中看到的更重要；遠比任何恐怖份子的威脅更重要；甚至遠比任何動盪—正在世界上某些地方遭受的動盪重要。事實上，這部分我們所見的世事可能只是一些症狀而已。可能只是反映更龐大的趨勢的一些症狀。而如果我們只設法治癒這些症狀，卻忽略更龐大的趨勢，就會有遠比現在更大的問題要處理。 所以，那些趨勢是什麼?對於像你們這樣的群眾來說，這些趨勢很明顯。我們活在一個人類社會的結構正在被重新編織的時刻如果你有看到前幾天《經濟學人》的封面，上面說地球上將有高達80%的人口在2020年時擁有智慧型手機。將會有個連結網路的小電腦在他們口袋裡在非洲大部分地區，手機的滲透率是80%。去年10月開始，世界上個人行動裝置、SIM卡的數量已經超過世界人口數了。我們活在對歷史影響最深遠的時代裡，在這個時代裡，世界上每一個人實際上都是一個人造系統的一部份，有史以來第一次。我們可以接觸任何人 —為好事接觸他們，或為壞事接觸他們。隨著這些改變而來的是它正在改變地球上任何政府與任何生命的每一個面相的本質，這是我們的領導人在思考當前威脅時應該思考的事情。 至於安全這方面，我們已經從冷戰裡出來 — 因為核戰代價太高，所以我們沒這麼做—進入一個我稱為『涼戰』的時期，也就是網路戰爭，因為衝突成本很低，所以可能永遠不會停止。我們可能進入了一個持續交戰的時期，我們知道這點因為我們曾有多年經驗。但這次並沒有任何教條可以指點我們。我們並沒有規劃出任何基本概念。如果有人對我們發動網路攻擊，我們是否有能力做出有力的回應?我們不知道。如果有人發動網路攻擊，我們如何嚇阻他們?當中國發動一連串網路攻擊時，美國政府做了什麼?他們只說，我們要對幾個中國人提出訴訟，而這些人根本沒來過美國。他們甚至永遠不會到任何接近執法人員的地方，接近那些有可能拘留他們的人。這只是作勢而已—毫無威攝作用。 今天前線的特種部隊人員發現少部分的叛亂團體用手機就可以取得衛星影像，這曾經是世界強權才拿得到的東西。事實上，只要你有手機，就能取得過去世界強權無法擁有的力量。獲得10年前還是高度機密的東西。在我的手機裡，有個程式可以告訴我地球上任何一架飛機在哪裡，還有它的高度、它的速度，還有它是哪種飛機，它的目的地是哪，將在哪裡降落。他們擁有手機程式讓他們可以得知他們的對手即將要做什麼他們正在用新方法運用這些工具。當恐怖份子控制雪梨一家咖啡廳時，他拿著一把來福槍...還有一台iPad。他的武器就是那台iPad。因為他幫裡面的人拍攝照片、脅迫他們，他拿著iPad指向他們，然後錄影並放到網路上，攻佔了全世界的媒體。 但它不只在安全方面有所影響。世界強權之間的關係—我們認為兩大強權對立的時期已經結束。我們認為現在世上只有一個強權，尤其在最大的麻煩都解決了之後。記得嗎? 這是那段歷史的終點。但我們還沒結束。我們現在對於網際網路的基本假設 —它可以連結我們，將整個社會織在一起 —已經不見得是對的了。像中國這樣的國家，他們擁有「防火長城」。你會看到一些國家，會說我們不允許網際網路在國界內恣意流竄，我們要在國界內對其加以控制。我們要控制它的內容。我們要控制我們的安全。我們要管好網際網路。我們要決定自己可以在裡面扮演什麼。我們要設定一些不同的規則。現在你可能在想，嗯，那只是中國。但其實不只中國。而是中國、印度、俄羅斯、沙烏地阿拉伯、新加坡、巴西。在國家安全局的醜聞後，蘇聯人、中國人、印度人、巴西人，他們都說要創造自己的網路架構，因為不能再信賴別人的系統。所以一瞬之間，你還有什麼?你得到一個新的強權對立的世界，在此網路國際主義，我們的信念，受到網路民族主義的挑戰，另一種信念。 我們到處都可以看到這些改變。我們看到行動貨幣正在來臨。它發生在你沒想到的地方。它發生在肯亞和坦尚尼亞，那裡有上百萬人還沒機會使用金融服務，現在卻可以在他們的手機上享用。所以250萬無法獲得金融服務的人，很快就要得到了。有10億人很快地將得以透過手機取得這項服務。這不只讓他們即將有能力開戶存款，也即將改變貨幣政策，即將改變貨幣本身。教育也在以相同的方式改變。醫療也在以相同的方式改變。政府服務如何履行也在以相同的方式改變。 但是在華府，我們還在爭論要叫那個已經控制敘利亞和伊拉克的恐怖組織ISIS還是ISIL還是伊斯蘭國。我們還在試著決定要在和伊朗人做核能交易的談判中退讓多少，針對這種50年前的科技，就在我們知道伊朗人事實上正忙著和我們進行網路戰爭的時候。而我們忽略這點，部分因為商業界不希望去談論在他們身上的一些攻擊。 而這為我們帶來了另一次崩解，這是決定性的，對我們這樣的群體而言，沒有任何比這個崩解更重要的事情，因為美國的發展以及真正的國家安全還有所有讓我們即使在冷戰中都能繼續進步的東西，就是在科學、科技和政治之間，政府和民間的合作，始於傑佛遜總統獨自坐在他的實驗室裡發明新東西時。但那些東西是運河、鐵路、電信；是雷達和網際網路。是菓珍，那種早餐飲品—可能不是這些發展中最重要的項目。但我們曾有合作和對話，而對話現在已經瓦解。它瓦解是因為在華府，大家認為政府介入越少越好，是因為，無論你信不信在華府，竟有人和科學作對—儘管事實上在所有人類歷史中，任何時刻有任何人對科學宣戰，科學都獲得最終勝利。 (掌聲) 但我們有個不願意傾聽的政府，不願意讓最高層的人去了解這些。在核戰時期，在國家安全位居要職的人，大家期待他們談論的是導彈荷載量。大家期待他們懂行話、聽不懂的字彙。現在如果你到美國政府最高層跟他們說：「和我談談網路、談談神經科學談談即將改變未來世界的事」，你會得到一個白眼。我知道這個，因為在我寫這本書時，曾和150個人對談，許多來自科學和科技領域，他們都覺得自己被分配到小孩桌。與此同時，在科技領域，我們有很多很棒的人、創造出很棒的東西，但他們是從自家車庫出發，他們不需要政府，他們也不想要政府。他們大部分對政治的觀點介於解放和無政府主義之間：離我遠一點。 但這世界正在逐漸分裂，一瞬之間，將會產生巨大的規律變化、巨大的衝突相關議題、巨大的安全與隱私相關議題。我們甚至會有下一套議題，就是哲學議題。如果你不能在沒有網路的狀態下投票、工作、開戶、看醫生，和接受教育，那網路連線是該被寫進憲法的基本權利嗎?如果網路連線是基本權利，那對1.2億無法取得電力供應的人口而言電力供應是個基本權利嗎?這些都是基礎問題，哲學家在哪裡?對話在哪裡? 這些構成了我今天來到這裡的原因，我住在華府。可憐可憐我吧。 (笑聲) 在那裡並沒有對話發生。這些會改變世界、改變國家安全、改變經濟、創造機會、創造威脅的重大議題，只有在你將懂科學、懂科技的群體聚在一起，恢復和政府的合作時，才有可能解決。雙方互相需要。而唯有在我們重新創造連結，做一些幫助美國成長、也幫助其他國家成長的事之後，我們才不會越來越脆弱。911所帶來風險的衡量方式，不該是恐怖攻擊帶走幾條人命、摧毀幾棟建築或花掉幾兆美元。他們的衡量方式，應該是讓我們從緊要的議題上分心造成的代價，以及無法聚集起科學家、科技專家和政府領導人 —在這樣的轉變時刻，類似於文藝復興剛開始的時刻、類似於地球上許多重大轉變剛開始時的時刻 —想出正確的答案，或至少想出正確的問題。 我們還沒有辦到這點，但像這樣的討論、跟你們這樣的群眾，會是這些問題得以被闡述和提出的場合。而這正是為什麼我相信TED這樣的群眾，像這樣和整個世界的討論，正是未來外交政策、經濟政策、社會政策、哲學思想產生的終極場合。而這就是為什麼和你們談話這麼愉快。 非常感謝各位。 (掌聲)
