Talk	en	zh-tw
david_puttnam_what_happens_when_the_media_s_priority_is_profit	"I'd like to start, if I may, with the story of the Paisley snail. On the evening of the 26th of August, 1928, May Donoghue took a train from Glasgow to the town of Paisley, seven miles east of the city, and there at the Wellmeadow Café, she had a Scots ice cream float, a mix of ice cream and ginger beer bought for her by a friend. The ginger beer came in a brown, opaque bottle labeled ""D. Stevenson, Glen Lane, Paisley."" She drank some of the ice cream float, but as the remaining ginger beer was poured into her tumbler, a decomposed snail floated to the surface of her glass. Three days later, she was admitted to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary and diagnosed with severe gastroenteritis and shock. The case of Donoghue vs. Stevenson that followed set a very important legal precedent: Stevenson, the manufacturer of the ginger beer, was held to have a clear duty of care towards May Donoghue, even though there was no contract between them, and, indeed, she hadn't even bought the drink. One of the judges, Lord Atkin, described it like this: You must take care to avoid acts or omissions which you can reasonably foresee would be likely to injure your neighbor. Indeed, one wonders that without a duty of care, how many people would have had to suffer from gastroenteritis before Stevenson eventually went out of business. Now please hang on to that Paisley snail story, because it's an important principle. Last year, the Hansard Society, a nonpartisan charity which seeks to strengthen parliamentary democracy and encourage greater public involvement in politics published, alongside their annual audit of political engagement, an additional section devoted entirely to politics and the media. Here are a couple of rather depressing observations from that survey. Tabloid newspapers do not appear to advance the political citizenship of their readers, relative even to those who read no newspapers whatsoever. Tabloid-only readers are twice as likely to agree with a negative view of politics than readers of no newspapers. They're not just less politically engaged. They are consuming media that reinforces their negative evaluation of politics, thereby contributing to a fatalistic and cynical attitude to democracy and their own role within it. Little wonder that the report concluded that in this respect, the press, particularly the tabloids, appear not to be living up to the importance of their role in our democracy. Now I doubt if anyone in this room would seriously challenge that view. But if Hansard are right, and they usually are, then we've got a very serious problem on our hands, and it's one that I'd like to spend the next 10 minutes focusing upon. Since the Paisley snail, and especially over the past decade or so, a great deal of thinking has been developed around the notion of a duty of care as it relates to a number of aspects of civil society. Generally a duty of care arises when one individual or a group of individuals undertakes an activity which has the potential to cause harm to another, either physically, mentally or economically. This is principally focused on obvious areas, such as our empathetic response to children and young people, to our service personnel, and to the elderly and infirm. It is seldom, if ever, extended to equally important arguments around the fragility of our present system of government, to the notion that honesty, accuracy and impartiality are fundamental to the process of building and embedding an informed, participatory democracy. And the more you think about it, the stranger that is. A couple of years ago, I had the pleasure of opening a brand new school in the northeast of England. It had been renamed by its pupils as Academy 360. As I walked through their impressive, glass-covered atrium, in front of me, emblazoned on the wall in letters of fire was Marcus Aurelius's famous injunction: If it's not true, don't say it; if it's not right, don't do it. The head teacher saw me staring at it, and he said, ""Oh, that's our school motto."" On the train back to London, I couldn't get it out of my mind. I kept thinking, can it really have taken us over 2,000 years to come to terms with that simple notion as being our minimum expectation of each other? Isn't it time that we develop this concept of a duty of care and extended it to include a care for our shared but increasingly endangered democratic values? After all, the absence of a duty of care within many professions can all too easily amount to accusations of negligence, and that being the case, can we be really comfortable with the thought that we're in effect being negligent in respect of the health of our own societies and the values that necessarily underpin them? Could anyone honestly suggest, on the evidence, that the same media which Hansard so roundly condemned have taken sufficient care to avoid behaving in ways which they could reasonably have foreseen would be likely to undermine or even damage our inherently fragile democratic settlement. Now there will be those who will argue that this could all too easily drift into a form of censorship, albeit self-censorship, but I don't buy that argument. It has to be possible to balance freedom of expression with wider moral and social responsibilities. Let me explain why by taking the example from my own career as a filmmaker. Throughout that career, I never accepted that a filmmaker should set about putting their own work outside or above what he or she believed to be a decent set of values for their own life, their own family, and the future of the society in which we all live. I'd go further. A responsible filmmaker should never devalue their work to a point at which it becomes less than true to the world they themselves wish to inhabit. As I see it, filmmakers, journalists, even bloggers are all required to face up to the social expectations that come with combining the intrinsic power of their medium with their well-honed professional skills. Obviously this is not a mandated duty, but for the gifted filmmaker and the responsible journalist or even blogger, it strikes me as being utterly inescapable. We should always remember that our notion of individual freedom and its partner, creative freedom, is comparatively new in the history of Western ideas, and for that reason, it's often undervalued and can be very quickly undermined. It's a prize easily lost, and once lost, once surrendered, it can prove very, very hard to reclaim. And its first line of defense has to be our own standards, not those enforced on us by a censor or legislation, our own standards and our own integrity. Our integrity as we deal with those with whom we work and our own standards as we operate within society. And these standards of ours need to be all of a piece with a sustainable social agenda. They're part of a collective responsibility, the responsibility of the artist or the journalist to deal with the world as it really is, and this, in turn, must go hand in hand with the responsibility of those governing society to also face up to that world, and not to be tempted to misappropriate the causes of its ills. Yet, as has become strikingly clear over the last couple of years, such responsibility has to a very great extent been abrogated by large sections of the media. And as a consequence, across the Western world, the over-simplistic policies of the parties of protest and their appeal to a largely disillusioned, older demographic, along with the apathy and obsession with the trivial that typifies at least some of the young, taken together, these and other similarly contemporary aberrations are threatening to squeeze the life out of active, informed debate and engagement, and I stress active. The most ardent of libertarians might argue that Donoghue v. Stevenson should have been thrown out of court and that Stevenson would eventually have gone out of business if he'd continued to sell ginger beer with snails in it. But most of us, I think, accept some small role for the state to enforce a duty of care, and the key word here is reasonable. Judges must ask, did they take reasonable care and could they have reasonably foreseen the consequences of their actions? Far from signifying overbearing state power, it's that small common sense test of reasonableness that I'd like us to apply to those in the media who, after all, set the tone and the content for much of our democratic discourse. Democracy, in order to work, requires that reasonable men and women take the time to understand and debate difficult, sometimes complex issues, and they do so in an atmosphere which strives for the type of understanding that leads to, if not agreement, then at least a productive and workable compromise. Politics is about choices, and within those choices, politics is about priorities. It's about reconciling conflicting preferences wherever and whenever possibly based on fact. But if the facts themselves are distorted, the resolutions are likely only to create further conflict, with all the stresses and strains on society that inevitably follow. The media have to decide: Do they see their role as being to inflame or to inform? Because in the end, it comes down to a combination of trust and leadership. Fifty years ago this week, President John F. Kennedy made two epoch-making speeches, the first on disarmament and the second on civil rights. The first led almost immediately to the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and the second led to the 1964 Civil Rights Act, both of which represented giant leaps forward. Democracy, well-led and well-informed, can achieve very great things, but there's a precondition. We have to trust that those making those decisions are acting in the best interest not of themselves but of the whole of the people. We need factually-based options, clearly laid out, not those of a few powerful and potentially manipulative corporations pursuing their own frequently narrow agendas, but accurate, unprejudiced information with which to make our own judgments. If we want to provide decent, fulfilling lives for our children and our children's children, we need to exercise to the very greatest degree possible that duty of care for a vibrant, and hopefully a lasting, democracy. Thank you very much for listening to me. (Applause)"	如果可以的話，我想從「佩斯利蝸牛」的故事開始說起。1928 年 8 月 26 日晚，梅唐納修從格拉斯哥坐火車來到佩斯利鎮，鎮位於城市東邊，離市中心七英里遠，她在威爾梅朵咖啡館裡，喝了一杯蘇格蘭冰淇淋蘇打，那是由冰淇淋和薑汁啤酒混合製成是她的一位朋友給她買的。薑汁啤酒裝在一個棕色不透明的杯子裡杯子上標著「佩斯利鎮格蘭巷，D．史帝文森」她喝了一點冰淇淋蘇打但是當她把剩下的薑汁啤酒倒進酒杯時一隻腐死蝸牛浮在水面三天之後，她被送進格拉斯哥皇家醫院被診斷為嚴重的腸胃炎以及休克。接著的唐納修訴史帝文森案立下了一個非常重要的先例：判決指出薑汁啤酒製造商史帝文森對梅唐納修負有明確的謹慎責任儘管他們之間沒有合同甚至不是她去買啤酒其中一個法官阿特金勳爵說：在你可合理地預見損害到他人時，就必須遵從謹慎的法律責任， 避免作出一些行為或疏忽行為。我們甚至想知道假如沒有謹慎責任的情況下在史帝文森最終倒閉前，還有多少人飽受腸胃炎之苦。現在請記住佩斯利蝸牛的故事，因為這是一個十分重要的原則。去年，一個無黨派慈善機構名為漢薩德學會，試圖鞏固議會民主，鼓勵公眾更多介入政治發表看法進而影響決策出版年度政治參與度審計報告，又發表了一個額外章節整個都是跟政治和媒體有關。在調查當中有一些讓人頗為失望的觀察報告。小報看來好像沒有增進讀者的政治公民權甚至和完全不讀報的人相比也沒有。只讀小報的讀者較易同意政治的負面觀點，比不讀報的高兩倍。他們不僅對政治參與態度更消極通過消費媒體反而對政治增加負面評價因此對民主和它們當中的角色持宿命和憤世嫉俗的態度。無怪乎，報告總結說在這方面，媒體尤其是小報看來好像沒有在民主中起到應有的重要作用。現在我不確實這房間裡有沒有人認真挑戰那個觀點。但是如果漢薩德學會是對的，而他們通常都是對的，那麼在我們手裡就有一個嚴重的問題我想在接下來的 10 分鐘集中討論。自從佩斯利蝸牛後尤其是過去十多年很多人都在思考謹慎責任這個概念因為它和公民社會各方面也多有相關謹慎責任的形成常見於以下情況一個人或群眾進行一項活動時有可能會對他人造成傷害無論身體上、精神上的傷害或經濟上的損失主要集中在顯而易見的領域例如我們對兒童和年輕人、對服務員、對老年或體弱者的同理心反應。同樣重要的論點很難得或從來不會擴展到政府現行制度弱點的議題在建立和嵌入充分知情的、民眾參與的民主過程中誠實、精確和公正無私是不可或缺的。越深思這件事這件事就越奇怪。幾年前，我有幸參與英國東北部一間新學校的開幕典禮學生們把它重新命名為「學院 360 」當我走過令人印象深刻的玻璃吊頂中庭時在我面前，牆上以火焰字體刻著馬可．奧里略的名言不真實的話不必說；不對的事不用做校長看到我盯著這句話就說：「噢，那是我們學校的校訓。」在回倫敦的火車上這句話一直在我的腦海裡揮之不去我一直想，難道我們真的需要二千多年的時間才意識到這個簡單的概念我們真的符合彼此的最低預期嗎？難道現在不正是讓我們發展出謹慎責任這個概念並把它延伸出去，包括關注於現時共享的但逐漸受到威脅的民主價值？畢竟，在很多行業裡缺乏謹慎責任就很容易被指控為疏忽既然如此，我們事實上在社會的健康發展及其必要支持的價值觀方面有所疏忽我們真的能夠接受這想法嗎？面對證據，有誰能誠實的說，漢薩德學會全面譴責的同一類媒體負起足夠責任去避免作出某些行為，而他們可合理地預見這些行為可會削弱甚至毀壞我們內在還很脆弱的民主。現在有些人會爭辯這些太容易偏轉成審查制度，儘管是自我審查但我不接受那個論點。我們一定可以在言論自由和更廣泛的道德和社會責任之間找到平衡我想用我身為一個電影製作人作一個簡單實例來說明原因。在我職業生涯中，我從來都不接受電影製作人該把作品和自己對生活、家庭以及我們對社會未來的想法和價值觀分隔開。讓我進一步說明一個負責的電影製作人從來不該將自己作品的價值觀降低到不能符合自己對這個世界的期望在我看來，電影製作人，記者，甚至部落格作家都需面對社會的期望將媒體內蘊的力量和他們優秀的職業技能結合起來當然這不是一個強制的責任但對於優秀的電影製作人，負責任的記者甚至部落格作家，我認為是完全無法逃避的責任。我們應該牢記個人自由，以其伴隨的創作自由在西方思想史上是相對很新的概念因此，它通常被低估也很容易被削弱這是個很容易失去的禮物一旦丟失，一旦屈服就很難再拿回來了而對它首要的保護就是我們自己的標準不是由審查或者通過立法強加給我們的標準而是我們自己的標準和自己的道德準則道德準則是指我們如何處理選擇和誰一起工作以及我們在社會裡採用的標準而我們這些標準需要統一及可持續的社會進程他們屬於共同責任的一部份這責任要求藝術家或記者面對世界時如同真實的一樣而這轉過來，也必須和統治機構的責任聯繫起來他們也需要面對真實的世界， 不應當被利用濫用職權 引起社會弊端的漏洞但是，在過去幾年中越來越驚人地清楚的是這些責任在非常大的程度上被大部份媒體拋棄了。作為結果，在西方社會里反對黨過分簡化的政策他們主要吸引對社會不抱期望年紀很大的群眾冷漠而固執至少對部份年輕人抱有偏見所有的這些當代的心理失常現象正威脅使積極的、信息通暢的辯論和參與失去活力我強調是積極的最激烈的自由主義者可能會爭辯說唐納修訴史帝文森的案子不應被受理只要史帝文森繼續賣有蝸牛的薑汁啤酒，他最終會破產的但我覺得，我們中的大部份人還是接受國家採取一些行動來加強謹慎責任的這裡的關鍵是合理的法官們必須問的問題是，他們有沒有採取合理的關照以及他們是否能夠合理預測到行為的後果？不僅沒有顯示過強的政府力量這是一個對合理性的常識小測試我希望我們能將這個測試應用於媒體上畢竟，媒體奠定了我們民主的大部份基調和內容。爲了讓民主發揮作用，需要理性的民眾花時間理解並爭論那些困難而且有時很複雜的事務他們需要在一個這樣的氛圍中進行：這個環境下大家的理解是朝著哪怕不是完全同意，但至少能達成一種有效又能執行的妥協。政治是選擇在這些選擇裡面，政治講的是優先權政治是無論何時何地，只要有可能就在事實基礎上斡旋各種有衝突的選擇但是如果事實本身就是扭曲的解決方案很可能只能產生更多的矛盾而社會上的壓力和衝突就不可避免的會跟著產生媒體需要決定：他們視自己的角色是點燃衝突的人還是提供信息的人因為到了最後，歸根結底是信任和領導力的結合。五十年前的這一週，約翰．甘迺迪總統作了兩個名留青史的演講第一個關於裁軍第二個關於人權第一個演講幾乎立刻導致《禁止核試驗條約》的誕生第二個演講帶來了 1964 年的人權法案這兩件事情都代表著巨大的進步民主，在良好領導和充分的信息溝通下能夠達成偉大的成就但是這是有前提的我們必須信任那些做決定的人是基於全人類的最大利益而非個人私利的前提下行動我們需要基於事實的選項被清楚地列出來而非少數幾個很有權力而且可能會操縱事實的機構去尋求他們自己通常很淺薄的目的我們需要精確公正的信息在此基礎上做我們自己的判斷如果我們想要為我們的子孫後代提供得體、有意義的生活我們需要在最大程度上行使對於這種活躍、希望也是持久的民主的謹慎責任謝謝你們聽我演講（掌聲）
