Talk	en	zh-tw
david_steindl_rast_want_to_be_happy_be_grateful	"There is something you know about me, something very personal, and there is something I know about every one of you and that's very central to your concerns. There is something that we know about everyone we meet anywhere in the world, on the street, that is the very mainspring of whatever they do and whatever they put up with. And that is that all of us want to be happy. In this, we are all together. How we imagine our happiness, that differs from one another, but it's already a lot that we have all in common, that we want to be happy. Now my topic is gratefulness. What is the connection between happiness and gratefulness? Many people would say, well, that's very easy. When you are happy, you are grateful. But think again. Is it really the happy people that are grateful? We all know quite a number of people who have everything that it would take to be happy, and they are not happy, because they want something else or they want more of the same. And we all know people who have lots of misfortune, misfortune that we ourselves would not want to have, and they are deeply happy. They radiate happiness. You are surprised. Why? Because they are grateful. So it is not happiness that makes us grateful. It's gratefulness that makes us happy. If you think it's happiness that makes you grateful, think again. It's gratefulness that makes you happy. Now, we can ask, what do we really mean by gratefulness? And how does it work? I appeal to your own experience. We all know from experience how it goes. We experience something that's valuable to us. Something is given to us that's valuable to us. And it's really given. These two things have to come together. It has to be something valuable, and it's a real gift. You haven't bought it. You haven't earned it. You haven't traded it in. You haven't worked for it. It's just given to you. And when these two things come together, something that's really valuable to me and I realize it's freely given, then gratefulness spontaneously rises in my heart, happiness spontaneously rises in my heart. That's how gratefulness happens. Now the key to all this is that we cannot only experience this once in a while. We cannot only have grateful experiences. We can be people who live gratefully. Grateful living, that is the thing. And how can we live gratefully? By experiencing, by becoming aware that every moment is a given moment, as we say. It's a gift. You haven't earned it. You haven't brought it about in any way. You have no way of assuring that there will be another moment given to you, and yet, that's the most valuable thing that can ever be given to us, this moment, with all the opportunity that it contains. If we didn't have this present moment, we wouldn't have any opportunity to do anything or experience anything, and this moment is a gift. It's a given moment, as we say. Now, we say the gift within this gift is really the opportunity. What you are really grateful for is the opportunity, not the thing that is given to you, because if that thing were somewhere else and you didn't have the opportunity to enjoy it, to do something with it, you wouldn't be grateful for it. Opportunity is the gift within every gift, and we have this saying, opportunity knocks only once. Well, think again. Every moment is a new gift, over and over again, and if you miss the opportunity of this moment, another moment is given to us, and another moment. We can avail ourselves of this opportunity, or we can miss it, and if we avail ourselves of the opportunity, it is the key to happiness. Behold the master key to our happiness in our own hands. Moment by moment, we can be grateful for this gift. Does that mean that we can be grateful for everything? Certainly not. We cannot be grateful for violence, for war, for oppression, for exploitation. On the personal level, we cannot be grateful for the loss of a friend, for unfaithfulness, for bereavement. But I didn't say we can be grateful for everything. I said we can be grateful in every given moment for the opportunity, and even when we are confronted with something that is terribly difficult, we can rise to this occasion and respond to the opportunity that is given to us. It isn't as bad as it might seem. Actually, when you look at it and experience it, you find that most of the time, what is given to us is the opportunity to enjoy, and we only miss it because we are rushing through life and we are not stopping to see the opportunity. But once in a while, something very difficult is given to us, and when this difficult thing occurs to us, it's a challenge to rise to that opportunity, and we can rise to it by learning something which is sometimes painful. Learning patience, for instance. We have been told that the road to peace is not a sprint, but is more like a marathon. That takes patience. That's difficult. It may be to stand up for your opinion, to stand up for your conviction. That's an opportunity that is given to us. To learn, to suffer, to stand up, all these opportunities are given to us, but they are opportunities, and those who avail themselves of those opportunities are the ones that we admire. They make something out of life. And those who fail get another opportunity. We always get another opportunity. That's the wonderful richness of life. So how can we find a method that will harness this? How can each one of us find a method for living gratefully, not just once in a while being grateful, but moment by moment to be grateful. How can we do it? It's a very simple method. It's so simple that it's actually what we were told as children when we learned to cross the street. Stop. Look. Go. That's all. But how often do we stop? We rush through life. We don't stop. We miss the opportunity because we don't stop. We have to stop. We have to get quiet. And we have to build stop signs into our lives. When I was in Africa some years ago and then came back, I noticed water. In Africa where I was, I didn't have drinkable water. Every time I turned on the faucet, I was overwhelmed. Every time I clicked on the light, I was so grateful. It made me so happy. But after a while, this wears off. So I put little stickers on the light switch and on the water faucet, and every time I turned it on, water. So leave it up to your own imagination. You can find whatever works best for you, but you need stop signs in your life. And when you stop, then the next thing is to look. You look. You open your eyes. You open your ears. You open your nose. You open all your senses for this wonderful richness that is given to us. There is no end to it, and that is what life is all about, to enjoy, to enjoy what is given to us. And then we can also open our hearts, our hearts for the opportunities, for the opportunities also to help others, to make others happy, because nothing makes us more happy than when all of us are happy. And when we open our hearts to the opportunities, the opportunities invite us to do something, and that is the third. Stop, look, and then go, and really do something. And what we can do is whatever life offers to you in that present moment. Mostly it's the opportunity to enjoy, but sometimes it's something more difficult. But whatever it is, if we take this opportunity, we go with it, we are creative, those are the creative people. And that little stop, look, go, is such a potent seed that it can revolutionize our world. Because we are at the present moment in the middle of a change of consciousness, and you will be surprised if you — I am always surprised when I hear how many times this word ""gratefulness"" and ""gratitude"" comes up. Everywhere you find it, a grateful airline, a restaurant gratefulness, a café gratefulness, a wine that is gratefulness. Yes, I have even come across a toilet paper whose brand is called ""Thank You."" (Laughter) There is a wave of gratefulness because people are becoming aware how important this is and how this can change our world. It can change our world in immensely important ways, because if you're grateful, you're not fearful, and if you're not fearful, you're not violent. If you're grateful, you act out of a sense of enough and not of a sense of scarcity, and you are willing to share. If you are grateful, you are enjoying the differences between people, and you are respectful to everybody, and that changes this power pyramid under which we live. And it doesn't make for equality, but it makes for equal respect, and that is the important thing. The future of the world will be a network, not a pyramid turned upside down. The revolution of which I am speaking is a nonviolent revolution, and it's so revolutionary that it even revolutionizes the very concept of a revolution, because the normal revolution is one where the power pyramid is turned upside down and those who were on the bottom are now on the top and are doing exactly the same thing that the ones before. What we need is a networking of smaller groups, smaller and smaller groups who know one another, who interact with one another, and that is a grateful world. A grateful world is a world of joyful people. Grateful people are joyful people, and joyful people — the more and more joyful people there are, the more and more we'll have a joyful world. We have a network for grateful living, and it has mushroomed. We couldn't understand why it mushroomed. We have an opportunity for people to light a candle when they are grateful for something. And there have been 15 million candles lit in one decade. People are becoming aware that a grateful world is a happy world, and we all have the opportunity by the simple stop, look, go, to transform the world, to make it a happy place. And that is what I hope for us, and if this has contributed a little to making you want to do the same, stop, look, go. Thank you. (Applause)"	有件事你懂我，非常私人的事而有件事我也懂在座每一個人而且這是你非常關心的事有件事我們都能懂與我們遇到的每個人有關無論是在世上的某一處還是在大街上那是他們非常主要的動力無論他們在做什麼還是在忍受什麼那就是我們所有的人都想要快樂在這件事上，我們站在同一陣線我們如何想像我們的快樂每個人都不相同但是我們已經有夠多的共同處了就是我們想要快樂 那麼，我的講題是感謝如何把快樂與感謝連在一起？很多人可能會說，嗯，那很簡單當你快樂的時候你就會感謝但重新思索一下真的是快樂的人都心懷感謝嗎？我們都認識一些人擁有每一件能讓他們快樂的東西但他們並不快樂因為他們想要別的東西或他們想要更多已經擁有的我們都認識一些人非常不幸連我們自己都不會想要的不幸而他們卻無比的快樂他們散發出快樂。你會很驚訝為什麼？因為他們感謝所以不是快樂讓我們感謝而是感謝讓我們快樂如果你認為是快樂讓你感謝再思索一下是感謝讓你快樂 那麼，我們要問我們所說的感謝到底是甚麼意思？又是如何起作用？我懇請你想想你自己的經驗我們都從經驗知道這如何發生我們經歷某件對我們極寶貴的事某件賜與我們的事，我們視為至寶是真的賜與我們的這兩件事必須一起發生它必須是有價值的東西且是一個真正的禮物你沒有買下它，你沒有賺得它你沒有拿什麼來交換它你也沒有為它而努力就是送給了你而當這兩件事一起發生某事對我有真正的價值且我明瞭它是白白送給我的然後感謝就會自然而然地在我心中升起快樂自然地在我心中升起那就是感謝發生的方式 那麼，這所有的關鍵是我們不能只是偶爾經歷這種事我們不能僅有感恩的經驗我們可以是活出感謝的人感謝的生活，就是這樣那我們要如何活出感謝？從體驗，從開始察覺每一個時刻都是賜與我們的時刻，可以這麼說它是個禮物，你不能賺取它你不能以任何形式買到它你沒有辦法保證你還有下一個賜與你的時刻可是那卻是最有價值的事可以給予我們的這個時刻及其中的所有機會假如我們沒有當下這個時刻我們不可能有任何機會做任何事或經歷任何事所以當下是一個禮物它是白白贈與的時刻，可以這麼說 那麼我們說在這個禮物中的禮物其實是機會你真正感謝的是這個機會而不是給予你的事物因為如果這事物存在於別處而你沒有機會去享受它拿它來做些什麼你不會為之感謝機會是每件禮物中的禮物而我們有句話這麼說機會只敲一次門嗯，再思索一次每個時刻都是新的禮物不斷地重複著如果你錯失了當下的這個機會另一個時刻又給了我們還有另一個時刻我們可以利用這個機會或者我們錯失它如果我們利用這個機會這就是通往快樂的關鍵看啊！這通往快樂的主要關鍵就在我們的手中一刻接著一刻我們可以感謝這個禮物 這難道意味著我們要感謝每一件事？當然不是我們不能為暴力、為戰爭為壓迫、為剝削而感謝在個人方面，我們也不能為失去朋友、為不忠為喪失親友而感謝但我沒有說我們要為每件事感謝我是說我們可以時時刻刻感謝感謝其所給予的機會甚至在我們面對極為困難之事我們可以奮力挑戰並回應其所給予我們的機會那就不像看起來的這麼糟事實上，當你面對並經歷它你會發現大部分時間給予我們的是享受的機會而我們之所以錯過是因為我們忙著在生活中奔波而我們不曾停下來去看機會 但偶爾我們面臨很困難的事當這個困難的事情發生在我們身上奮力面對危機是項挑戰但我們能以學習來面對挑戰而這有時候很痛苦譬如說，學習忍耐我們都聽說過邁向和平之路不是百米衝刺而更像是馬拉松那需要忍耐，那很難你可能要捍衛你的見解捍衛你的信念那就是其所給予我們的機會為了學習、經歷、捍衛這些機會都給了我們但是它們是機會而那些會利用機會而受益的人是我們所仰慕的他們活出生命而那些失敗的人會得到另一次機會我們總是會得到另一次機會那就是人生精采豐富之處 所以我們要如何找到方法駕馭這個？我們每個人要如何找到方法過感謝的生活不是偶一為之的感謝而是時時刻刻都感謝？我們該怎麼做？方法很簡單這是如此簡單，其實我們早就聽過了就在我們還是孩子學習如何過馬路的時候停、看、行動如此而已但我們多常停止？我們在生活中忙碌奔波，我們從不停止我們錯過機會，因為我們從不停止我們必須停止我們必須學習平靜安穩我們必須架起停止標誌在我們的生活裡 幾年前我去了非洲回來之後我注意到水我在非洲落腳的地方沒有飲用水每次我打開水龍頭我都大為驚奇而每次我開燈我是如此感謝，它讓我好開心但一會兒之後，這種感覺就消退了所以我在電燈開關上貼上小小的貼紙在水龍頭上也貼每一次我開水龍頭，就有「水」所以這全看你自己的想像力你可以尋找任何對你最有用的方法但在你的生活中你需要停止標誌當你停下來那麼接下來就是看你看。你打開你的眼睛你打開你的耳朵，你打開你的鼻子你打開你所有的感官為了這賜予我們的美好富足這沒有盡頭而這就是人生去享受，去享受那賜與我們的一切 然後我們也可以打開我們的心為這些機會打開我們的心為了這些也能幫助他人的機會讓別人快樂，因為沒有比看到所有的人都快樂更讓我們快樂了而當我們為這些機會打開心房機會就邀請我們去做一些事而那就是第三點停、看、然後行動，真的去做點什麼而我們能做的就是任何當下人生給予你的事最重要的就是享受的機會但有的時候是更困難的事 但不論是什麼如果我們把握了這個機會我們接受它，我們就有創意這些是有創意的人而那小小的停、看、行動就是這樣一顆有力的種子可以徹底改變我們的世界因為我們需要，我們就在當下就在意識轉變之中而你會很驚訝如果你——我總是很驚訝，每當我聽到「感謝」及「感激」這個字出現時總是如此你會發現它無所不在一家感謝的航空公司一間感謝的餐廳一家感謝的咖啡店一種感謝的酒是的，我甚至看過一種衛生紙品牌名稱是「謝謝」（笑聲）是有一種感激的潮流，因為人們逐漸意識到這有多重要及這如何能改變我們的世界它可以改變世界在極為重要的方面因為如果你充滿感激，你就不害怕而如果你不害怕，你就不暴力如果你感謝，你就表現出滿足感而不是缺乏感而且你還會願意分享如果你很感激，你就會享受人與人間的不同而你會尊重每一個人而那會改變這個權力金字塔我們都活在其下 而這不會創造平等但這會創造平等的尊重而那是重要的事這個世界的未來會是一個網絡不是金字塔，也不是顛倒的金字塔我所說的革命是非暴力的革命而它的變革是如此之大它甚至要徹底改變革命本身的概念因為一般的革命是把權力金字塔顛倒所以那些原本在底層的人現在變成頂端卻依然做著原本在頂端的人之前所做的事我們需要的是一種更小群組的關係網絡彼此知曉、彼此互動的群組愈來愈小而那就是充滿感謝的世界 感謝的世界是喜樂的人的世界感謝的人是喜樂的人而喜樂的人喜樂的人愈多我們就更可能有個喜樂的世界我們有一個感謝生活的網絡而這已如雨後春筍般出現我們不了解為什麼它像雨後春筍般出現我們給人們點燃一根蠟燭的機會在他們為某事而感謝時而在過去十年中已經有一千五百萬支蠟燭被點起人們開始察覺感激的世界是個快樂的世界而我們都有機會只要簡單地停、看、行動就能轉化這個世界使它成為一個快樂的地方而那就是我對大家的期望如果對你有點幫助讓你也想做同樣的事就停、看、行動吧 謝謝 （掌聲）
