Talk	en	zh-tw
david_r_dow_lessons_from_death_row_inmates	"Two weeks ago, I was sitting at the kitchen table with my wife Katya, and we were talking about what I was going to talk about today. We have an 11-year-old son; his name is Lincoln. He was sitting at the same table, doing his math homework. And during a pause in my conversation with Katya, I looked over at Lincoln and I was suddenly thunderstruck by a recollection of a client of mine. My client was a guy named Will. He was from North Texas. He never knew his father very well, because his father left his mom while she was pregnant with him. And so, he was destined to be raised by a single mom, which might have been all right except that this particular single mom was a paranoid schizophrenic, and when Will was five years old, she tried to kill him with a butcher knife. She was taken away by authorities and placed in a psychiatric hospital, and so for the next several years Will lived with his older brother, until he committed suicide by shooting himself through the heart. And after that Will bounced around from one family member to another, until, by the time he was nine years old, he was essentially living on his own. That morning that I was sitting with Katya and Lincoln, I looked at my son, and I realized that when my client, Will, was his age, he'd been living by himself for two years. Will eventually joined a gang and committed a number of very serious crimes, including, most seriously of all, a horrible, tragic murder. And Will was ultimately executed as punishment for that crime. But I don't want to talk today about the morality of capital punishment. I certainly think that my client shouldn't have been executed, but what I would like to do today instead is talk about the death penalty in a way I've never done before, in a way that is entirely noncontroversial. I think that's possible, because there is a corner of the death penalty debate — maybe the most important corner — where everybody agrees, where the most ardent death penalty supporters and the most vociferous abolitionists are on exactly the same page. That's the corner I want to explore. Before I do that, though, I want to spend a couple of minutes telling you how a death penalty case unfolds, and then I want to tell you two lessons that I have learned over the last 20 years as a death penalty lawyer from watching well more than a hundred cases unfold in this way. You can think of a death penalty case as a story that has four chapters. The first chapter of every case is exactly the same, and it is tragic. It begins with the murder of an innocent human being, and it's followed by a trial where the murderer is convicted and sent to death row, and that death sentence is ultimately upheld by the state appellate court. The second chapter consists of a complicated legal proceeding known as a state habeas corpus appeal. The third chapter is an even more complicated legal proceeding known as a federal habeas corpus proceeding. And the fourth chapter is one where a variety of things can happen. The lawyers might file a clemency petition, they might initiate even more complex litigation, or they might not do anything at all. But that fourth chapter always ends with an execution. When I started representing death row inmates more than 20 years ago, people on death row did not have a right to a lawyer in either the second or the fourth chapter of this story. They were on their own. In fact, it wasn't until the late 1980s that they acquired a right to a lawyer during the third chapter of the story. So what all of these death row inmates had to do was rely on volunteer lawyers to handle their legal proceedings. The problem is that there were way more guys on death row than there were lawyers who had both the interest and the expertise to work on these cases. And so inevitably, lawyers drifted to cases that were already in chapter four — that makes sense, of course. Those are the cases that are most urgent; those are the guys who are closest to being executed. Some of these lawyers were successful; they managed to get new trials for their clients. Others of them managed to extend the lives of their clients, sometimes by years, sometimes by months. But the one thing that didn't happen was that there was never a serious and sustained decline in the number of annual executions in Texas. In fact, as you can see from this graph, from the time that the Texas execution apparatus got efficient in the mid- to late 1990s, there have only been a couple of years where the number of annual executions dipped below 20. In a typical year in Texas, we're averaging about two people a month. In some years in Texas, we've executed close to 40 people, and this number has never significantly declined over the last 15 years. And yet, at the same time that we continue to execute about the same number of people every year, the number of people who we're sentencing to death on an annual basis has dropped rather steeply. So we have this paradox, which is that the number of annual executions has remained high but the number of new death sentences has gone down. Why is that? It can't be attributed to a decline in the murder rate, because the murder rate has not declined nearly so steeply as the red line on that graph has gone down. What has happened instead is that juries have started to sentence more and more people to prison for the rest of their lives without the possibility of parole, rather than sending them to the execution chamber. Why has that happened? It hasn't happened because of a dissolution of popular support for the death penalty. Death penalty opponents take great solace in the fact that death penalty support in Texas is at an all-time low. Do you know what all-time low in Texas means? It means that it's in the low 60 percent. Now, that's really good compared to the mid-1980s, when it was in excess of 80 percent, but we can't explain the decline in death sentences and the affinity for life without the possibility of parole by an erosion of support for the death penalty, because people still support the death penalty. What's happened to cause this phenomenon? What's happened is that lawyers who represent death row inmates have shifted their focus to earlier and earlier chapters of the death penalty story. So 25 years ago, they focused on chapter four. And they went from chapter four 25 years ago to chapter three in the late 1980s. And they went from chapter three in the late 1980s to chapter two in the mid-1990s. And beginning in the mid- to late 1990s, they began to focus on chapter one of the story. Now, you might think that this decline in death sentences and the increase in the number of life sentences is a good thing or a bad thing. I don't want to have a conversation about that today. All that I want to tell you is that the reason that this has happened is because death penalty lawyers have understood that the earlier you intervene in a case, the greater the likelihood that you're going to save your client's life. That's the first thing I've learned. Here's the second thing I learned: My client Will was not the exception to the rule; he was the rule. I sometimes say, if you tell me the name of a death row inmate — doesn't matter what state he's in, doesn't matter if I've ever met him before — I'll write his biography for you. And eight out of 10 times, the details of that biography will be more or less accurate. And the reason for that is that 80 percent of the people on death row are people who came from the same sort of dysfunctional family that Will did. Eighty percent of the people on death row are people who had exposure to the juvenile justice system. That's the second lesson that I've learned. Now we're right on the cusp of that corner where everybody's going to agree. People in this room might disagree about whether Will should have been executed, but I think everybody would agree that the best possible version of his story would be a story where no murder ever occurs. How do we do that? When our son Lincoln was working on that math problem two weeks ago, it was a big, gnarly problem. And he was learning how, when you have a big old gnarly problem, sometimes the solution is to slice it into smaller problems. That's what we do for most problems — in math, in physics, even in social policy — we slice them into smaller, more manageable problems. But every once in a while, as Dwight Eisenhower said, the way you solve a problem is to make it bigger. The way we solve this problem is to make the issue of the death penalty bigger. We have to say, all right. We have these four chapters of a death penalty story, but what happens before that story begins? How can we intervene in the life of a murderer before he's a murderer? What options do we have to nudge that person off of the path that is going to lead to a result that everybody — death penalty supporters and death penalty opponents — still think is a bad result: the murder of an innocent human being? You know, sometimes people say that something isn't rocket science. And by that, what they mean is rocket science is really complicated and this problem that we're talking about now is really simple. Well that's rocket science; that's the mathematical expression for the thrust created by a rocket. What we're talking about today is just as complicated. What we're talking about today is also rocket science. My client Will and 80 percent of the people on death row had five chapters in their lives that came before the four chapters of the death penalty story. I think of these five chapters as points of intervention, places in their lives when our society could've intervened in their lives and nudged them off of the path that they were on that created a consequence that we all — death penalty supporters or death penalty opponents — say was a bad result. Now, during each of these five chapters: when his mother was pregnant with him; in his early childhood years; when he was in elementary school; when he was in middle school and then high school; and when he was in the juvenile justice system — during each of those five chapters, there were a wide variety of things that society could have done. In fact, if we just imagine that there are five different modes of intervention, the way that society could intervene in each of those five chapters, and we could mix and match them any way we want, there are 3,000 — more than 3,000 — possible strategies that we could embrace in order to nudge kids like Will off of the path that they're on. So I'm not standing here today with the solution. But the fact that we still have a lot to learn, that doesn't mean that we don't know a lot already. We know from experience in other states that there are a wide variety of modes of intervention that we could be using in Texas, and in every other state that isn't using them, in order to prevent a consequence that we all agree is bad. I'll just mention a few. I won't talk today about reforming the legal system. That's probably a topic that is best reserved for a room full of lawyers and judges. Instead, let me talk about a couple of modes of intervention that we can all help accomplish, because they are modes of intervention that will come about when legislators and policymakers, when taxpayers and citizens, agree that that's what we ought to be doing and that's how we ought to be spending our money. We could be providing early childhood care for economically disadvantaged and otherwise troubled kids, and we could be doing it for free. And we could be nudging kids like Will off of the path that we're on. There are other states that do that, but we don't. We could be providing special schools, at both the high school level and the middle school level, but even in K-5, that target economically and otherwise disadvantaged kids, and particularly kids who have had exposure to the juvenile justice system. There are a handful of states that do that; Texas doesn't. There's one other thing we can be doing — well, there are a bunch of other things — there's one other thing that I'm going to mention, and this is going to be the only controversial thing that I say today. We could be intervening much more aggressively into dangerously dysfunctional homes, and getting kids out of them before their moms pick up butcher knives and threaten to kill them. If we're going to do that, we need a place to put them. Even if we do all of those things, some kids are going to fall through the cracks and they're going to end up in that last chapter before the murder story begins, they're going to end up in the juvenile justice system. And even if that happens, it's not yet too late. There's still time to nudge them, if we think about nudging them rather than just punishing them. There are two professors in the Northeast — one at Yale and one at Maryland — they set up a school that is attached to a juvenile prison. And the kids are in prison, but they go to school from eight in the morning until four in the afternoon. Now, it was logistically difficult. They had to recruit teachers who wanted to teach inside a prison, they had to establish strict separation between the people who work at the school and the prison authorities, and most dauntingly of all, they needed to invent a new curriculum because you know what? People don't come into and out of prison on a semester basis. (Laughter) But they did all those things. Now, what do all of these things have in common? What all of these things have in common is that they cost money. Some of the people in the room might be old enough to remember the guy on the old oil filter commercial. He used to say, ""Well, you can pay me now or you can pay me later."" What we're doing in the death penalty system is we're paying later. But the thing is that for every 15,000 dollars that we spend intervening in the lives of economically and otherwise disadvantaged kids in those earlier chapters, we save 80,000 dollars in crime-related costs down the road. Even if you don't agree that there's a moral imperative that we do it, it just makes economic sense. I want to tell you about the last conversation that I had with Will. It was the day that he was going to be executed, and we were just talking. There was nothing left to do in his case. And we were talking about his life. And he was talking first about his dad, who he hardly knew, who had died, and then about his mom, who he did know, who was still alive. And I said to him, ""I know the story. I've read the records. I know that she tried to kill you."" I said, ""But I've always wondered whether you really actually remember that."" I said, ""I don't remember anything from when I was five years old. Maybe you just remember somebody telling you."" And he looked at me and he leaned forward, and he said, ""Professor,"" — he'd known me for 12 years, he still called me Professor. He said, ""Professor, I don't mean any disrespect by this, but when your mama picks up a butcher knife that looks bigger than you are, and chases you through the house screaming she's going to kill you, and you have to lock yourself in the bathroom and lean against the door and holler for help until the police get there,"" he looked at me and he said, ""that's something you don't forget."" I hope there's one thing you all won't forget: In between the time you arrived here this morning and the time we break for lunch, there are going to be four homicides in the United States. We're going to devote enormous social resources to punishing the people who commit those crimes, and that's appropriate because we should punish people who do bad things. But three of those crimes are preventable. If we make the picture bigger and devote our attention to the earlier chapters, then we're never going to write the first sentence that begins the death penalty story. Thank you. (Applause)"	兩個星期前我和我的太太卡地亞 (Katya)坐在廚房的餐桌上討論我今天應該講的題目我們有一個11歲大的兒子，他的名字叫林肯(Lincoln)他坐在同一餐桌上正在做數學作業。當我和卡地亞的對話暫停之際我望一望林肯一下子像被雷打中一樣我當時想起我曾經的一個客戶“ 他名叫威廉他家鄉在德州北部他對父親沒有清晰的印象，因為他父親在他母親懷著他的時候把兩人拋棄所以，他在命中注定了要由他的單親媽媽養大原本，這個也並非甚麼大問題可是這一個母親患有偏執型精神分裂症當威廉還是五歲的時候，她就試圖以屠刀把他殺死 她最後被執法當局帶走並關在精神病院在往後的幾年間，小威廉一直跟他的哥哥同住直至他哥哥一槍打進自己的心房自殺從此以後威廉像人球一樣被推到不同的親戚家中直至他九歲那年以後，他就自己獨自生活 那天早上，當我坐在卡地亞和林肯旁邊，我看著兒子林肯我發覺當我的當時人威廉和我兒子一樣大的時候他已經獨個兒生活兩年了威廉最後加入了黑社會亦犯下了一連串的嚴重罪行包括，最嚴重的令人心寒的、兇殺悲劇威廉最後被處決作為他犯罪的懲罰 但我今天並非要談論有關死刑的道德問題。我當然不認為我的當時人應該受到死刑這制裁，但我今天想以一種我從未試過的方式去談論死刑我要探討的事是完全沒有爭議的 我認為這是可能的因為這場死刑辯論當中有一個角落可能是最重要的角落是所有人都認同的即使是那些對於保留死刑的忠實支持者或是那些最暄嚷的、支持廢除死刑的人都會站在同一陣線這就是我要探討的角落 在這之前，我希望用幾分鐘的時間去告訴你們一個死刑的判決是怎樣開展的接著我會告訴你，這二十年裏我作為死刑律師處理一百多個案件的其中兩課 你可以把一個死刑的案件分成四個章節每個案件的第一章都是一樣悲哀的它從一宗無辜受害者被殺的事件開始接著是審訊殺人犯被定罪並被判死刑之後死刑的判決州的上訴法院維持原判 第二章是一個複雜的司法程序叫做州人身保護令上訴第三章是一個更為繁複的司法程序叫做聯邦人身保護令審裁之後的第四章中一系列的事情可以發生。律師們可能會可能會提出特赦申請他們可能會啟動更繁複的訴訟又或者他們甚麼都不再做但第四章很多時都會以執行死刑為終結 二十多年前，當我開始作死囚代表律師的時候被判死刑的人在第二或第四章的時候並沒有聘請律師作辯護的權利他們需要獨自面對審判實際上，一九八零年代以前他們在故事的第三章裏都沒有聘請代表律師的權利所以這些被判死刑的人只能夠依靠義務律師去處理他們的司法程序問題是，那些被判死刑的人的數目遠遠多於那些既願意幫助死囚，又有具備專門知識的律師的數目 無可避免地律師們都會先處理已經到了第四章的死囚案件這不難埋解，因為這些案件都比較趕急這些死囚都在被處決的最邊緣有一些律師成功了；他們為當時人爭取新的審訊其他律師就爭取了延長他們當時人的生命有時幾年，有時幾個月 但有一種事並沒有發生那就是德州的行刑數目，以年計一直沒有重大而持久的下降趨勢實際上，看看這個圖表，德州在一九九零年代添置了足夠的行刑工具後只有少數年份，行刑數子以年計在二十以下 在一個普通的年份德州每個月處決兩個人在某些年份，德州每年處決近四十人這個數字在過去的十五年間一直沒有顯著的下降但是，在我們每年繼續處決相當數量的死囚的同時實際上我們的法庭以年計大幅減少了作出死刑的裁決 現在我們有這個矛盾一方面被行刑的數字一直居高不下另一方面新增的死刑裁決一直下降為甚麼會這樣呢謀殺案罪案率下降並不能解釋這個現象因為罪案率在這幾年間並沒有像圖表中的紅線下降得一樣厲害真正的原因是仲裁員傾向將犯人判以沒有假釋機會的終身監禁多於送他們到行刑室 為甚麼會這樣呢這個情況發生並不是因為公眾對死刑的支持已經瓦解反對死刑的人因為德州對死刑的支持度跌至新低而得到慰藉你知道“新低”的意思嗎?這是指稍為多於百分之六十相對上世紀八十年代多於百分之八十的支持度，這已是很好了但我們不能以民眾對死刑的支持度減少去解釋死刑減少與無期徒刑增加的倩況因為大部分的民眾還是支持死刑 那甚麼促使這個情況發生呢?這個由於那些代表死囚的律師將他們的焦點移到死刑故事較早、較早的章節 二十五年前，他們聚焦在第四章大概二十五年前，即是八十年代後期他們改為聚焦在第三章到九十年代中期，他們從第三章改為聚焦在第二章直到九十年代中至後期他們將焦點放在故事的第一章 現在，你或許會對死刑數目減少和無期徒刑的增長有正面或負面的看法我今天不想觸及這個問題我想說的，是這個情況發生的原因死囚代表律師明白到你愈早介入一個案件你更加容易保住你當時人的性命這是我學到的第一件事 第二件事我學到的:我的當時人威廉他的故事不是一個例外他本身就是一個典型的例子我有時會說－如果你給我一個死囚的名字不論他在哪一個州，不論我跟他有沒有相遇過我都可以替他寫一篇傳記十次裏面有八次傳記的細節多多少少都是準確的 這是因為百分之八十的死囚都像威廉一樣來自一些無法起效的家庭百分之八十的死囚都曾經接觸過少年司法制度這是我學到的第二課 現在，我們應該達到了一個大家都認同的共識這個演講廳裏的人可能不同意威廉應否被處以死刑我的相信所有人都會同意這個故事最佳的版本會是沒有兇殺案發的一個故事我們可以怎樣做呢? 我的兒子林肯在兩星期前嘗試解答他的數學難題。那是一個很大、很複雜的問題他學習到，當你要解決一個很大、很複雜的問題時有時候你要將這個問題分割成幾個細小的問題這是我們解決大部分問題的方法－在數學上、物理上、甚至社會政策上我們將問題分割成較細少的、較容易處理的問題但是，總有一些時候像(前美國總統)艾森豪曾經講過你解決問題的方法就是要將它放大 我們現在處理死刑這個問題正正就是要將死刑的事件變大我們要說，好了我們有這四個關於死刑故事章節但甚麼發生在這個故事之前呢?我們可以怎樣在一個人變成殺人犯之前阻止這件事情發生呢?我們有甚麼選擇去把這個人輕輕推出這條不歸路呢這個問題引領我們到一個結局，每個人－死刑支持者也好，反對死刑的人也好－都認為是一個悲哀的結局:一個無辜的人被殺? 你知道，有時候人們會說有些事情並非“火箭科學”他們這樣說，就是指火箭科學的確很複雜相對地，我們今日探討的問題就簡單得多哎喲... 其實我們今天討論的問題確實是一種火箭科學就像推進火箭發射所用的數學公式一樣今天我們所討論的問題就是一樣的複雜我們今天所討論的問題就是高深的科學 我的當時人威廉跟百分之八十的死囚一樣他們的生命中有五個章節在死囚故事的四個章節前發生我視這五個章節為我們的“介入點”一些我們的社會可以介入他們的生活、把他們輕輕推出這條不歸路的機會一個我們－死刑支持者或反對死刑的人－都認為是悲哀的結局 現在，我要談談這五個章節:第一，當他媽媽懷著他的時候第二，在他童年時第三，在他讀小學的時候第四，在他上初中和高中的時候第五，在他接觸少年司法制度的時候－每一個階段裏我們的社會都有一系列的事情可以做實際上，我們可以想像我們有五種不同的介入方式，在五個不同的章節裏可以有不同的方式我們可以依據我們喜好混合和搭配不同方式這樣我們有三千種－多於三千種－可以使用的策略去把這些像威廉一樣的青少年輕輕推出他們踏上的不歸路 今天，我站在這裏並沒有一個確實的解決方案事實上，我們還有很多東西需要學習但這並不代表我們所知的有限我們從其他州份的經驗知道一系列的介入方式已經存在而且可以應用在德州，和其他還沒有使用這些介入方式的州份去阻止一個我們都認為是悲哀的結局 我會在以下提及一部分今天，我不會提及司法制度的改革這個題目最好預留給一眾律師及法官反而，我希望探討一些介入的方式一些我們都可以推動的方式因為這些方式需要得到議員、政策制定者、納稅人和民眾的支持，認同這是我們應該做的事以及認為我們應該這樣投放公帑 我們可以提供早期的托兒服務去幫助低收入及有潛在危機的兒童我們可以兒費提供這類服務這樣我們可以及早把那些像威廉一樣的誤入歧途的孩子扶正有一些州份正提供這些服務，但我們沒有 我們亦可以提供特殊教育，在高中、以及初中程度，甚至幼稚園至小學特別針對那些來自低收入家庭、弱勢群體，以至曾經接觸少年司法制度的青少年在一些州份正在執行這類工作但德州沒有 另外，也有一樣事情我們可以做－哎呀，事實上我們有很多其他事情可以做－但有一樣我想在這裏提及，而這件事是我今天要探討的唯一一件富爭議的事情我們可以更積極地介入去從一些已經失效的家庭裏在孩子的母親拿起屠刀、威脅要殺死他們前帶走孩子如果我們真的要這樣做我們需要一個地方去安置他們 即使我們做足所有事情，總有一些孩子會踏上歧途這時他們會進入殺人故事前的最後章節他們會接觸到少年司法制度即使這件事情發生亦不代表為時已晚我們還有時間把他們帶回正軌只要我們想帶他們重回正軌而非懲罰他們 東北部有兩位大學教授－一位在耶魯，另一位在馬里蘭－他們籌辦了一所學校一所附設於少年監獄的學校那些少年正在監獄服刑，但他們從早上八時至下午四時都在學校上課這當然有統籌上的困難他們很難找到願意在監獄工作的教師，他們需要建立一套將教學人員及監獄工作人員分隔的系統而最令人怯步的，是他們需要創造一套全新的課程你知道為甚麼嗎?少年犯不會依著學期的開始、完結進出監獄但這些事情他們都辦到了 這些介入方法有甚麼共通的地方呢他們共通的地方就是它們都需要經費你們當中或許有些人比較年長記得那個古老的機油過濾器廣告那個人說: 哎喲，你可以今天付鈔或者以後才付款現在我們的死刑制度就是延後付鈔 但問題是今大我們花一萬五千元在較早的章節裏介入那些來自低收入家庭、有潛在危機的孩子的生活時我們可以在以後的道路上，省卻與犯罪相關的八萬元支出即使你不同意我們有必要的道德責任去履行這些事它們都符合經濟原則 我想告訴你我跟威廉的最後對話那是他將要行刑的當日我們在談天在他的案件中我們都沒有其他事情可以做所以只好談談他的人生他先講他的父親，一個他不太認識的父親已經去世的父親接著是他母親這個人他認識而且她還在生 我告訴他我知道你的故事我看過你的檔案我知道她曾經要殺死你我說: 但我很疑惑為甚麼你還記得起這件事情我說: 五歲發生的事情我一點也記不起可能你只是記得有人想過要殺你 接著，他向前傾，望著我說教授－他已經認識我十二年了，但仍然稱呼我為教授他說: 教授，我無意對你不敬但如果你的媽媽拿起一把好像比你還要大的屠刀跑遍全屋追逐你，並呼喊要殺死你你要把自己反鎖在浴室、靠著門求她放過你，直至警察到來他望著我、然後說這是你一生都難以忘記的事情 我希望有一件事情你們永遠都不會忘記在你今天早上進入會場直至我們吃午餐的時間美國境內發生了四宗兇殺案我們需要調撥大量的社會資源去懲罰這些干犯罪行的人。這是理所當然的，因為我們應該懲罰做壞事的人但是這四宗案件中，有三宗是可以避免的 如果我們把這個局面放大把我們的注意力放在較早的章節中那我們就毋須再寫下死刑幫絕書的第一個句子謝謝(掌聲)
