Talk	en	zh-tw
david_kelley_how_to_build_your_creative_confidence	"I wanted to talk to you today about creative confidence. I'm going to start way back in the third grade at Oakdale School in Barberton, Ohio. I remember one day my best friend Brian was working on a project. He was making a horse out of the clay our teacher kept under the sink. And at one point, one of the girls that was sitting at his table, seeing what he was doing, leaned over and said to him, ""That's terrible. That doesn't look anything like a horse."" And Brian's shoulders sank. And he wadded up the clay horse and he threw it back in the bin. I never saw Brian do a project like that ever again. And I wonder how often that happens, you know? It seems like when I tell that story of Brian to my class, a lot of them want to come up after class and tell me about their similar experience, how a teacher shut them down, or how a student was particularly cruel to them. And then some kind of opt out of thinking of themselves as creative at that point. And I see that opting out that happens in childhood, and it moves in and becomes more ingrained, even, by the time you get to adult life. So we see a lot of this. When we have a workshop or when we have clients in to work with us side by side, eventually we get to the point in the process that's kind of fuzzy or unconventional. And eventually, these big-shot executives whip out their BlackBerrys and they say they have to make really important phone calls, and they head for the exits. And they're just so uncomfortable. When we track them down and ask them what's going on, they say something like, ""I'm just not the creative type."" But we know that's not true. If they stick with the process, if they stick with it, they end up doing amazing things. And they surprise themselves at just how innovative they and their teams really are. So I've been looking at this fear of judgment that we have, that you don't do things, you're afraid you're going to be judged; if you don't say the right creative thing, you're going to be judged. And I had a major breakthrough, when I met the psychologist Albert Bandura. I don't know if you know Albert Bandura, but if you go to Wikipedia, it says that he's the fourth most important psychologist in history — you know, like Freud, Skinner, somebody and Bandura. (Laughter) Bandura is 86 and he still works at Stanford. And he's just a lovely guy. So I went to see him, because he's just worked on phobias for a long time, which I'm very interested in. He had developed this way, this, kind of, methodology, that ended up curing people in a very short amount of time, like, in four hours. He had a huge cure rate of people who had phobias. And we talked about snakes — I don't know why — we talked about snakes and fear of snakes as a phobia. And it was really enjoyable, really interesting. He told me that he'd invite the test subject in, and he'd say, ""You know, there's a snake in the next room and we're going to go in there."" To which, he reported, most of them replied, ""Hell no! I'm not going in there, certainly if there's a snake in there."" But Bandura has a step-by-step process that was super successful. So he'd take people to this two-way mirror looking into the room where the snake was. And he'd get them comfortable with that. Then through a series of steps, he'd move them and they'd be standing in the doorway with the door open, and they'd be looking in there. And he'd get them comfortable with that. And then many more steps later, baby steps, they'd be in the room, they'd have a leather glove like a welder's glove on, and they'd eventually touch the snake. And when they touched the snake, everything was fine. They were cured. In fact, everything was better than fine. These people who had lifelong fears of snakes were saying things like, ""Look how beautiful that snake is."" And they were holding it in their laps. Bandura calls this process ""guided mastery."" I love that term: guided mastery. And something else happened. These people who went through the process and touched the snake ended up having less anxiety about other things in their lives. They tried harder, they persevered longer, and they were more resilient in the face of failure. They just gained a new confidence. And Bandura calls that confidence ""self-efficacy,"" the sense that you can change the world and that you can attain what you set out to do. Well, meeting Bandura was really cathartic for me, because I realized that this famous scientist had documented and scientifically validated something that we've seen happen for the last 30 years: that we could take people who had the fear that they weren't creative, and we could take them through a series of steps, kind of like a series of small successes, and they turn fear into familiarity. And they surprise themselves. That transformation is amazing. We see it at the d.school all the time. People from all different kinds of disciplines, they think of themselves as only analytical. And they come in and they go through the process, our process, they build confidence and now they think of themselves differently. And they're totally emotionally excited about the fact that they walk around thinking of themselves as a creative person. So I thought one of the things I'd do today is take you through and show you what this journey looks like. To me, that journey looks like Doug Dietz. Doug Dietz is a technical person. He designs large medical imaging equipment. He's worked for GE, and he's had a fantastic career. But at one point, he had a moment of crisis. He was in the hospital looking at one of his MRI machines in use, when he saw a young family, and this little girl. And that little girl was crying and was terrified. And Doug was really disappointed to learn that nearly 80 percent of the pediatric patients in this hospital had to be sedated in order to deal with his MRI machine. And this was really disappointing to Doug, because before this time, he was proud of what he did. He was saving lives with this machine. But it really hurt him to see the fear that this machine caused in kids. About that time, he was at the d.school at Stanford taking classes. He was learning about our process, about design thinking, about empathy, about iterative prototyping. And he would take this new knowledge and do something quite extraordinary. He would redesign the entire experience of being scanned. And this is what he came up with. (Laughter) He turned it into an adventure for the kids. He painted the walls and he painted the machine, and he got the operators retrained by people who know kids, like children's museum people. And now when the kid comes, it's an experience. And they talk to them about the noise and the movement of the ship. And when they come, they say, ""OK, you're going to go into the pirate ship, but be very still, because we don't want the pirates to find you."" And the results were super dramatic: from something like 80 percent of the kids needing to be sedated, to something like 10 percent of the kids needing to be sedated. And the hospital and GE were happy, too, because you didn't have to call the anesthesiologist all the time, and they could put more kids through the machine in a day. So the quantitative results were great. But Doug's results that he cared about were much more qualitative. He was with one of the mothers waiting for her child to come out of the scan. And when the little girl came out of her scan, she ran up to her mother and said, ""Mommy, can we come back tomorrow?"" (Laughter) And so, I've heard Doug tell the story many times of his personal transformation and the breakthrough design that happened from it, but I've never really seen him tell the story of the little girl without a tear in his eye. Doug's story takes place in a hospital. I know a thing or two about hospitals. A few years ago, I felt a lump on the side of my neck. It was my turn in the MRI machine. It was cancer, it was the bad kind. I was told I had a 40 percent chance of survival. So while you're sitting around with the other patients, in your pajamas, and everybody's pale and thin — (Laughter) you know? — and you're waiting for your turn to get the gamma rays, you think of a lot of things. Mostly, you think about: Am I going to survive? And I thought a lot about: What was my daughter's life going to be like without me? But you think about other things. I thought a lot about: What was I put on Earth to do? What was my calling? What should I do? I was lucky because I had lots of options. We'd been working in health and wellness, and K-12, and the developing world. so there were lots of projects that I could work on. But then I decided and committed at this point, to the thing I most wanted to do, which was to help as many people as possible regain the creative confidence they lost along their way. And if I was going to survive, that's what I wanted to do. I survived, just so you know. (Laughter) (Applause) I really believe that when people gain this confidence — and we see it all the time at the d.school and at IDEO — that they actually start working on the things that are really important in their lives. We see people quit what they're doing and go in new directions. We see them come up with more interesting — and just more — ideas, so they can choose from better ideas. And they just make better decisions. I know at TED, you're supposed to have a change-the-world kind of thing, isn't that — everybody has a change-the-world thing? If there is one for me, this is it, to help this happen. So I hope you'll join me on my quest, you as, kind of, thought leaders. It would be really great if you didn't let people divide the world into the creatives and the non-creatives, like it's some God-given thing, and to have people realize that they're naturally creative, and that those natural people should let their ideas fly; that they should achieve what Bandura calls self-efficacy, that you can do what you set out to do, and that you can reach a place of creative confidence and touch the snake. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我想講一講關於創造力自信心的問題最開始我要追溯到俄亥俄州巴伯頓的歐克代爾學校三年級的時候 記得有一天，我最好的朋友布萊恩正在做手工他在做一匹馬用老師藏在水池下的陶土那時候，跟他同桌的一個女孩子看到他在做的東西靠過來說道“真差勁。看起來一點兒也不像馬。”布萊恩的肩膀懈下來把陶土小馬捏成一團，扔進了垃圾箱那以後我再也沒見過布萊恩做類似的手工了 我想知道這種事有多普遍當我對學生們講布萊恩的故事時似乎有很多人想在課後留下來告訴我他們自己相似的經歷老師如何貶低他們同學如何不留情面其中一些人從此再也不相信自己是有創意的人我發現這種童年時的改變會變得越來越深刻甚至直至成年 所以我們看到很多這樣的例子當我們辦學習班或是與客戶並肩努力時最終我們會進入一個環節一個模糊的、非常規的環節最終，這些高層經理會抽出他們的黑莓手機說他們必須打幾個非常重要的電話然後就走出了房間他們感到極不舒服當我們跟蹤調查，問他們到底是怎麼回事他們回答道：“我真不是創造型的人”我們知道事實並非如此如果他們堅持到底他們會做出非常驚人的成果他們感到非常驚奇自己和所在團隊能有多麼有創意 我研究這種評價恐懼症你不去做一件事，因為你害怕被評價如果你說不出正確的有創造性的想法，就會被“判決”我的主要突破發生在我遇到心理學家亞伯特.班杜拉(Albert Bandura)之後 不知你們是否瞭解亞伯特.班杜拉但如果你們查查維琪百科上面寫著他是歷史上第四名最重要的心理學家佛洛德、斯金納、某某和班杜拉班杜拉已經86歲了，還在斯坦福任職他令人愉快 我去拜訪他因他在恐懼症領域有多年經驗而我對此很感興趣他開發出一種方法能在短時間內治好各種恐懼症在四小時的治療時間裡，治癒率相當高我們談到了蛇不過我們談到了蛇，以及對蛇的恐懼 談話令人愉悅，非常有趣他告訴我他邀請受試者進入房間對他們說：“隔壁房間有一條蛇我們要走進去”多數受試者回答“天哪，不！我不會進去的！只要蛇在那兒” 班杜拉有一套極為成功的步驟方法把他們帶到雙面鏡前可以觀察蛇在房間裡的動向讓人們逐漸適應然後經過一系列步驟他們被帶到打開的房間門口站著往裡面看並逐漸適應之後還有許多循序漸進的步驟他們進入房間，帶著焊工用的那種皮手套觸摸蛇當他們摸到蛇的時候事實上，結果比這更好這些生來對蛇恐懼的人說道“看那條蛇多漂亮”他們可以把蛇放在膝蓋上 班杜拉稱之為“引導性精熟”我喜歡這個術語：“引導性精熟”其他的事發生了這些人經歷所有程式最後觸摸到蛇最後對人生的其他焦慮都減輕了他們更努力，更堅持在失敗面前表現得更有韌性他們獲得了一種新的自信班杜拉稱這種自信為自我效能一種你能改變世界的感覺你能達成自己的目標 與班杜拉的會見對我意義非凡因為我認識到這位著名的科學家有文獻和科學證據來證明我們過去三十年所見證的事情那些懼怕自己沒有創造力的人們我們可以帶領他們經歷一系列步驟一系列小小的成功懼怕成為熟悉，他們給自己帶來驚喜這種轉變是驚人的 我們不斷在斯坦福設計學院(d.school)看到不同學科的人們那些認為自己只是善於分析的人們他們來我們這裡，經歷我們開發的流程逐漸的累積自信，在最後學會從另一個角度看待自己他們為能夠覺得自己是一個有創造力的人而感到激動 我認為我今天的任務之一就是向你們展示這個過程是怎樣的對於我來說，這個過程就像道格.迪茲(Doug Dietz)道格.迪茲是個技術型人才他設計醫用成像設備大型的醫用成像設備他為GE工作，有非常成功的事業不過他也曾有危機時刻 他在醫院裡觀察他的核磁共振儀器的實際使用他看到一個年輕的家庭那家的小女孩被嚇哭了道格心情沮喪地發現醫院裡將近80%的兒科患者需要服用鎮靜劑才能做核磁共振這令道格大為受挫因為這之前他一直為自己的工作感到驕傲他覺得自己的這台機器能拯救生命然而事實給了他很大打擊，他看到了這台機器給孩子們帶來的是恐懼 就在那時，他正在斯坦福設計學院學習他知道了我們的流程關於設計性思維，同情心以及反覆運算的原型設計他運用了這些新知識做出了非凡的成果他重新設計了掃描檢查的全部體驗這就是他的成果 他把核磁共振檢查變成了孩子們的到冒險他在牆上和機器上畫上圖案他請懂孩子的人對醫務人員重新培訓比如說兒童博物館的工作人員對孩子們來說這是一次獨特體驗他們對孩子們解釋噪音和檢查艙的運行他們對來檢查的孩子說“好了，你現在要潛入這艘海盜船別亂動，不然海盜會發現你的” 結果是戲劇化的需要服用鎮靜劑的孩子從80%降到了10%醫院和GE公司對此都很高興他們不用一直找麻醉師了每天可以做的檢查數量增加了這個定量結果十分顯著但道格真正在乎的是最終的質量他陪同一位母親等待她的孩子完成檢查當小女孩做完了檢查她跑到媽媽那兒說“媽媽，我們明天還能來嗎？”(笑聲) 我不止一次聽道格講起這個故事他的個人的轉變以及由此而來的突破性設計但每一次他講到那個小女孩的故事眼裡都含著淚水 道格的故事發生在醫院裡我恰巧對醫院略知一二幾年前我感覺自己的脖子側面長了一個腫塊於是輪到我去做核磁共振了是腫瘤。惡性的。我被告知只有40%的存活率 當我坐在一群穿著病號服的病患中間所有人看起來都蒼白瘦弱等著輪到自己做放療的那些時間裡你會會想到很多事多數時間是想“我能活下來嗎？”我也無數次想到要是我不在了，我女兒會怎樣我也想到很多別的事情我經常想：我來到世上究竟要做什麼？我的使命是什麼？我應該做什麼？我很幸運，因為有很多選擇我們從事醫療福利領域的工作為K through 12專案工作，為第三世界工作我能做的專案有很多但在那時我決定要投身於我最想做的工作去幫助盡可能多的人重新獲得他們成長過程中缺失的創造力自信心如果我活下來，我就去做這件事我活下來了，如你們所見 (笑聲) (鼓掌聲) 我堅信當人們獲得這種自信正如我們一直以來在斯坦福設計學院和IDEO公司看到的人們開始研究生命中真正重要的東西一些人辭掉當下的工作，開闢了新的方向他們有了更多有趣的想法來讓他們能從更好的想法中作出抉擇他們能夠作出更好的決策 我知道在TED應該有種改變世界的精神每個人都有這種改變世界的精神對於我來說，就是讓這一切發生我希望諸位能加入我的探索作為思想的領袖這是一件偉大的事：不讓人們把世界上的人硬分成有創意和沒創意兩種，好像創造力是上天恩賜似的讓人們意識到他們天生是有創造力的自然而然應該讓創意飛翔人們應該成就班杜拉所說的“自我效能”你能夠達到自己的目標你可以擁有創造力自信心然後去觸碰蛇 謝謝各位 (鼓掌聲)
