Talk	en	zh-tw
david_burkus_why_you_should_know_how_much_your_coworkers_get_paid	"How much do you get paid? Don't answer that out loud. But put a number in your head. Now: How much do you think the person sitting next to you gets paid? Again, don't answer out loud. (Laughter) At work, how much do you think the person sitting in the cubicle or the desk next to you gets paid? Do you know? Should you know? Notice, it's a little uncomfortable for me to even ask you those questions. But admit it — you kind of want to know. Most of us are uncomfortable with the idea of broadcasting our salary. We're not supposed to tell our neighbors, and we're definitely not supposed to tell our office neighbors. The assumed reason is that if everybody knew what everybody got paid, then all hell would break loose. There'd be arguments, there'd be fights, there might even be a few people who quit. But what if secrecy is actually the reason for all that strife? And what would happen if we removed that secrecy? What if openness actually increased the sense of fairness and collaboration inside a company? What would happen if we had total pay transparency? For the past several years, I've been studying the corporate and entrepreneurial leaders who question the conventional wisdom about how to run a company. And the question of pay keeps coming up. And the answers keep surprising. It turns out that pay transparency — sharing salaries openly across a company — makes for a better workplace for both the employee and for the organization. When people don't know how their pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to feel underpaid and maybe even discriminated against. Do you want to work at a place that tolerates the idea that you feel underpaid or discriminated against? But keeping salaries secret does exactly that, and it's a practice as old as it is common, despite the fact that in the United States, the law protects an employee's right to discuss their pay. In one famous example from decades ago, the management of Vanity Fair magazine actually circulated a memo entitled: ""Forbidding Discussion Among Employees of Salary Received."" ""Forbidding"" discussion among employees of salary received. Now that memo didn't sit well with everybody. New York literary figures Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley and Robert Sherwood, all writers in the Algonquin Round Table, decided to stand up for transparency and showed up for work the next day with their salary written on signs hanging from their neck. (Laughter) Imagine showing up for work with your salary just written across your chest for all to see. But why would a company even want to discourage salary discussions? Why do some people go along with it, while others revolt against it? It turns out that in addition to the assumed reasons, pay secrecy is actually a way to save a lot of money. You see, keeping salaries secret leads to what economists call ""information asymmetry."" This is a situation where, in a negotiation, one party has loads more information than the other. And in hiring or promotion or annual raise discussions, an employer can use that secrecy to save a lot of money. Imagine how much better you could negotiate for a raise if you knew everybody's salary. Economists warn that information asymmetry can cause markets to go awry. Someone leaves a pay stub on the copier, and suddenly everybody is shouting at each other. In fact, they even warn that information asymmetry can lead to a total market failure. And I think we're almost there. Here's why: first, most employees have no idea how their pay compares to their peers'. In a 2015 survey of 70,000 employees, two-thirds of everyone who is paid at the market rate said that they felt they were underpaid. And of everybody who felt that they were underpaid, 60 percent said that they intended to quit, regardless of where they were — underpaid, overpaid or right at the market rate. If you were part of this survey, what would you say? Are you underpaid? Well, wait — how do you even know, because you're not allowed to talk about it? Next, information asymmetry, pay secrecy, makes it easier to ignore the discrimination that's already present in the market today. In a 2011 report from the Institute for Women's Policy Research, the gender wage gap between men and women was 23 percent. This is where that 77 cents on the dollar comes from. But in the Federal Government, where salaries are pinned to certain levels and everybody knows what those levels are, the gender wage gap shrinks to 11 percent — and this is before controlling for any of the factors that economists argue over whether or not to control for. If we really want to close the gender wage gap, maybe we should start by opening up the payroll. If this is what total market failure looks like, then openness remains the only way to ensure fairness. Now, I realize that letting people know what you make might feel uncomfortable, but isn't it less uncomfortable than always wondering if you're being discriminated against, or if your wife or your daughter or your sister is being paid unfairly? Openness remains the best way to ensure fairness, and pay transparency does that. That's why entrepreneurial leaders and corporate leaders have been experimenting with sharing salaries for years. Like Dane Atkinson. Dane is a serial entrepreneur who started many companies in a pay secrecy condition and even used that condition to pay two equally qualified people dramatically different salaries, depending on how well they could negotiate. And Dane saw the strife that happened as a result of this. So when he started his newest company, SumAll, he committed to salary transparency from the beginning. And the results have been amazing. And in study after study, when people know how they're being paid and how that pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to work hard to improve their performance, more likely to be engaged, and they're less likely to quit. That's why Dane's not alone. From technology start-ups like Buffer, to the tens of thousands of employees at Whole Foods, where not only is your salary available for everyone to see, but the performance data for the store and for your department is available on the company intranet for all to see. Now, pay transparency takes a lot of forms. It's not one size fits all. Some post their salaries for all to see. Some only keep it inside the company. Some post the formula for calculating pay, and others post the pay levels and affix everybody to that level. So you don't have to make signs for all of your employees to wear around the office. And you don't have to be the only one wearing a sign that you made at home. But we can all take greater steps towards pay transparency. For those of you that have the authority to move forward towards transparency: it's time to move forward. And for those of you that don't have that authority: it's time to stand up for your right to. So how much do you get paid? And how does that compare to the people you work with? You should know. And so should they. Thank you. (Applause)"	你有多少薪水？不必大聲回答。但在腦中想一下。現在，你認為坐在你旁邊的這個人有多少薪水？同樣地，不必大聲講出來。 (笑聲) 在你的工作中，你認為多少薪水，是坐在隔壁裡的人或者你隔壁桌的人應該要得到的？你知道嗎？你應該知道嗎？ 注意，問你這些問題甚至都讓我有點不舒服。但不得不承認你想知道。我們大多數人對說出我們的薪水這個想法感到不舒服。我們不應該告訴鄰居，我們也絕對不應該告訴我們的同事。假設的原因是如果大家互相知道誰得了多少薪水，那麼就會天下大亂。会有爭論与戰鬥，甚至可能有幾個人辭職。但如果實際上保密是所有的爭鬥的原因會如何？如果我們去除那個保密的潛規則又會發生什麼？如果實際上在一個公司裡，開放可以讓人覺得公平和協作又會如何？如果我們將薪資透明化會發生什麼？ 過去幾年，我研究了公司和創業領袖關於如何運作一個公司的共同看法。薪水的問題不斷出現，但是他們的回答一直很讓人驚奇。 事實證明，公開工資，跨公司分享工資資料，能為每位員工還有組織製造一個更好的工作環境。當人們不知道相比於同齡人他們的薪水情況如何，他們更有可能覺得自己的薪水太少，甚至可能感到受到歧視。你想在一個容忍這個想法的地方工作嗎？你覺得太少 或歧視？但保持薪水秘密就是這樣，這是一種很普通的做法，儘管事實在美國，法律保障一位員工討論薪水的權益。 在幾十年前的一個著名例子中，Vanity Fair雜誌的管理者，實際上分發了一份備忘錄，題為：“禁忌的討論”其中禁止討論員工的薪資。現在大家沒有攜帶備忘錄。紐約媒體指出，Dorothy Parker。Robert Benchley，Robert Sherwood，還有在Algonquin Round Table的作家，決定堅持薪資透明。並在第二天現身工作时将他們的薪水寫在掛在他們脖子的工資牌上。 (笑聲) 想像現身工作时你的薪水寫在牌子上，讓所有人都看到。 但是為什麼公司會想要以阻止工資討論？為什麼有些人喜歡它，而其他人反對它？事實證明一种假設的原因，是因為工資保密其實是一種節省很多錢的方式。你看，保持薪資秘密，導致經濟學家所說的“信息不對稱”。在這情況談判的雙方一方比一方有更多資訊。在招聘、升職、加薪的討論中，雇主可以使用這種保密方式節省很多錢。想像一下如果你知道每個人的薪資，你会要到多少加薪。 經濟學家警告說信息不對稱可能會導致市場出差錯。有人在印表機上不小心遺留一張工資表，然後大家突然互相喊叫。事實上，他們互相警告：信息不對稱可能導致整個市場失靈。我認為我們正處在這個邊緣。這就是為甚麼：第一，大多數的員工沒有比較他們的薪資的想法。在2015年對70,000名員工的調查中，三分之二的人按市場利率付費的員工表示他們覺得自己工資不高。對於所有感覺到自己沒有得到足夠薪水的人，60％的打算辭職，不管他們的實際工資 - 是少付，是多付或是隨著市場利率變動。如果你是這調查的一部分，你會說甚麼？你會感到不舒服嗎？等一下-你如何知道？因為你不被允許談論這話題？ 其次，信息不對稱，工資保密，使其更容易忽略或歧視已經存在於現在的市場中。2011年，一项研究所的婦女政策的報告指出，男人和女人之間的工資差距有23℅。這就是一美元与77美分的出处。但是在聯邦政府，固定薪水一定是處於水平值，然後大家都知道這些水平值。性別工資差距则收縮至11％。這沒有控制其他變數，而經濟學家爭論是否應當控制。 如果我們真的想減少性別工資差距，或許我們應該從公佈工資開始。如果市場失靈，那公開薪資会是確保公平的唯一方法。 現在，我意識到讓人們知道你做什麼可能讓你感到不自在，但不會超過總是想知道你是否受到歧視，或你的妻子或女兒或姐妹是否被克扣薪水的不自在。公開是確保公平的最佳方法，薪資透明也是其中一種。 這就是為什么商界領袖和企業領導多年来一直在嘗試公开工資，像Dane Atkinson一樣。Dane是一個開創很多公司的企業家，他在薪酬保密狀態下发工資，甚至對兩個同等資格的人开出顯著不同的薪水，取决於他們多會談判。Dane看到了結果導致的衝突所以當他成立SumAll公司，他一開始就把薪資透明化，效果比預期的好。在大量研究中，當人們知道他的薪水和同事相比處於什麼水平，他們會更加努力來提升業績，更多參與，更少辭職。 這就是為甚麼模仿Dane的人越來越多從類似 Buffer 的初創科技公司，到有數萬員工的Whole Foods。不但大家的薪資都透明化，且每個分店、每個部門的業績數據，可在公司網頁上查得，供所有人查看。 實際上，薪資透明有很多種方法，並不是一成不變的。有的公司把薪資向所有人公開，有些只在公司內部公開。一些公开職位薪水的計算公式，另一些公開薪資分級並告知每個人所處的等級。所以你不需做薪資牌，以便員工在辦公室穿著。你也不必是唯一一個穿著標誌的——那是你在家裡做的。但我們都可以更大步地走向薪酬透明。對於那些有權利推動薪資透明化的人：是時候向前邁進了。對於沒有那個權力的你們：現在是時候為你的權益站出來。 所以你得到多少薪資？跟你的同事比你的薪資如何？你應該知道，他們也應該。 謝謝你 (掌聲)
