Talk	en	zh-tw
debra_jarvis_yes_i_survived_cancer_but_that_doesn_t_define_me	"I just met you on a bus, and we would really like  to get to know each other, but I've got to get off at the next stop, so you're going to tell me  three things about yourself that just define you as a person, three things about yourself that will help me understand who you are, three things that just  get to your very essence. And what I'm wondering is, of those three things, is any one of them surviving some kind of trauma? Cancer survivor, rape survivor, Holocaust survivor, incest survivor. Ever notice how we tend to identify ourselves by our wounds? And where I have seen this survivor identity have the most consequences is in the cancer community. And I've been around this  community for a long time, because I've been a hospice  and a hospital chaplain for almost 30 years. And in 2005, I was working at a big cancer center when I received the news that my mother had breast cancer. And then five days later, I received the news that I had breast cancer. My mother and I can be competitive — (Laughter) — but I was really not trying to compete with her on this one. And in fact, I thought, well, if you have to have cancer, it's pretty convenient to be working at a place that treats it. But this is what I heard from  a lot of outraged people. What? You're the chaplain. You should be immune. Like, maybe I should have just gotten off with a warning instead of an actual ticket, because I'm on the force. So I did get my treatment at the cancer center where I worked, which was amazingly convenient, and I had chemotherapy and a mastectomy, and a saline implant put in, and so before I say another word, let me just say right now, this is the fake one. (Laughter) I have found that I need to get that out of the way, because I'll see somebody go ""Oh, I know it's this one."" And then I'll move or I'll  gesture and they'll go, ""No, it's that one."" So now you know. I learned a lot being a patient, and one of the surprising things was that only a small part of the cancer experience is about medicine. Most of it is about feelings and faith and losing and finding your identity and discovering strength and flexibility you never even knew you had. It's about realizing that the most important things in life are not things at all, but relationships, and it's about laughing in the face of uncertainty and learning that the way to get out of almost anything is to say, ""I have cancer."" So the other thing I learned was that I don't have to take on ""cancer survivor"" as my identity, but, boy, are there powerful forces pushing me to do just that. Now, don't, please, misunderstand me. Cancer organizations and the drive for early screening and cancer awareness and cancer research have normalized cancer, and this is a wonderful thing. We can now talk about cancer without whispering. We can talk about cancer and we can support one another. But sometimes, it feels like people go a little overboard and they start telling us how we're going to feel. So about a week after my surgery, we had a houseguest. That was probably our first mistake. And keep in mind that at this point in my life I had been a chaplain for over 20 years, and issues like dying and death and the meaning of life, these are all things I'd been  yakking about forever. So at dinner that night, our houseguest proceeds to stretch his arms up over his head, and say, ""You know, Deb, now you're really going to learn what's important. Yes, you are going to make some big changes in your life, and now you're going to start thinking about your death. Yep, this cancer is your wakeup call."" Now, these are golden words coming from someone who is speaking about their own experience, but when someone is telling you how you are going to feel, it's instant crap. The only reason I did not kill him with my bare hands was because I could not lift my right arm. But I did say a really bad word to him, followed by a regular word, that — (Laughter) — made my husband say, ""She's on narcotics."" (Laughter) And then after my treatment, it just felt like everyone was telling me what my experience was going to mean. ""Oh, this means you're going to be doing the walk."" ""Oh, this means you're coming to the luncheon."" ""This means you're going to be wearing the pink ribbon and the pink t-shirt and the headband and the earrings and the bracelet and the panties."" Panties. No, seriously, google it. (Laughter) How is that raising awareness? Only my husband should be seeing my panties. (Laughter) He's pretty aware of cancer already. It was at that point where I felt like, oh my God, this is just taking over my life. And that's when I told myself,  claim your experience. Don't let it claim you. We all know that the way to cope with trauma, with loss, with any life-changing experience, is to find meaning. But here's the thing: No one can tell us what our experience means. We have to decide what it means. And it doesn't have to be some gigantic, extroverted meaning. We don't all have to start a foundation or an organization or write a book or make a documentary. Meaning can be quiet and introverted. Maybe we make one small decision about our lives that can bring about big change. Many years ago, I had a patient, just a wonderful young man who was loved by the staff, and so it was something of a shock to us to realize that he had no friends. He lived by himself, he would come in for chemotherapy by himself, he would receive his treatment, and then he'd walk home alone. And I even asked him. I said, ""Hey, how come you never bring a friend with you?"" And he said, ""I don't really have any friends."" But he had tons of friends on the infusion floor. We all loved him, and people were going in and out of his room all the time. So at his last chemo, we sang him the song and we put the crown on his  head and we blew the bubbles, and then I asked him, I said, ""So what are you going to do now?"" And he answered, ""Make friends."" And he did. He started volunteering  and he made friends there, and he began going to a church and he made friends there, and at Christmas he invited my husband and me to a party in his apartment, and the place was filled with his friends. Claim your experience. Don't let it claim you. He decided that the meaning of his experience was to know the joy of friendship, and then learn to make friends. So what about you? How are you going to find meaning in your crappy experience? It could be a recent one, or it could be one that you've been carrying around for a really long time. It's never too late to change what it means, because meaning is dynamic. What it means today may not be what it means a year from now, or 10 years from now. It's never too late to become someone other than simply a survivor. Hear how static that word sounds? Survivor. No movement, no growth. Claim your experience. Don't let it claim you, because if you do, I believe you will become trapped, you will not grow, you will not evolve. But of course, sometimes it's not outside pressures that cause us to take on that identity of survivor. Sometimes we just like the perks. Sometimes there's a payoff. But then we get stuck. Now, one of the first things I learned as a chaplain intern was the three C's of the chaplain's job: Comfort, clarify and, when necessary, confront or challenge. Now, we all pretty much love the comforting and the clarifying. The confronting, not so much. One of the other things that I loved about being a chaplain was seeing patients a year, or even several years after their treatment, because it was just really cool to see  how they had changed and how their lives had evolved and what had happened to them. So I was thrilled one day to get a page down into the lobby of the clinic from a patient who I had seen the year before, and she was there with her two adult daughters, who I also knew, for her one year follow-up exam. So I got down to the lobby, and they were ecstatic because she had just gotten all of her test results back and she was NED: No Evidence of Disease. Which I used to think meant Not Entirely Dead. So they were ecstatic, we sat down to visit, and it was so weird, because within two minutes, she  started retelling me the story of her diagnosis and her  surgery and her chemo, even though, as her chaplain,  I saw her every week, and so I knew this story. And she was using words like suffering, agony, struggle. And she ended her story with, ""I felt crucified."" And at that point, her two  daughters got up and said, ""We're going to go get coffee."" And they left. Tell me three things about yourself before the next stop. People were leaving the bus before she even got to number two or number three. So I handed her a tissue, and I gave her a hug, and then, because I really cared for this woman, I said, ""Get down off your cross."" And she said, ""What?"" And I repeated, ""Get down off your cross."" And to her credit, she could  talk about her reasons for embracing and then clinging to this identity. It got her a lot of attention. People were taking care of her for a change. But now, it was having the opposite effect. It was pushing people away. People kept leaving to get coffee. She felt crucified by her experience, but she didn't want to let that crucified self die. Now, perhaps you are thinking I was a little harsh with her, so I must tell you that I was speaking out of my own experience. Many, many years before, I had been fired from a job that I loved, and I would not stop talking about my innocence and the injustice and the betrayal and the deceipt, until finally, just like this woman, people were walking away from me, until I finally realized I wasn't just processing my feelings, I was feeding them. I didn't want to let that crucified self die. But we all know that with any resurrection story, you have to die first. The Christian story, Jesus was dead a whole day in the tomb before he was resurrected. And I believe that for us, being in the tomb means doing our own deep inner work around our wounds and allowing ourselves to be healed. We have to let that crucified self die so that a new self, a truer self, is born. We have to let that old story go so that a new story, a truer story, can be told. Claim your experience. Don't let it claim you. What if there were no survivors, meaning, what if people decided to just claim their trauma as an experience instead of taking it on as an identity? Maybe it would be the end of being trapped in our wounds and the beginning of amazing self-exploration and discovery and growth. Maybe it would be the start of defining ourselves by who we have become and who we are becoming. So perhaps survivor was not one of the three things that you would tell me. No matter. I just want you all to know that I am really glad that we are on this bus together, and this is my stop. (Applause)"	我剛在公車上碰到你，而且我們很想認識彼此，但我下一站就得下車了，所以你要告訴我關於你的三件事，三件能夠定義你這個人的事，三件關於你的事，能夠幫助我了解你是誰，三件直抵你核心的事。我疑惑的是，那三件事當中，其中是否有一件是從某種創傷中倖存的經驗？癌症倖存者、性侵倖存者、大屠殺倖存者、亂倫倖存者。 你有沒有發現，我們常用受過的傷來定義自己？我看到這種倖存者的身分最常出現在癌症病患身上。我在癌症病患的圈子裡很久了，因為我擔任一家收容所和醫院的牧師將近三十年了。2005 年時，我在一家大型癌症醫療中心工作，就在那時我得知我媽罹患了乳癌。五天後，我得知自己罹患了乳癌。我和我媽都很好勝，（笑聲）但這次我真的不想和她比。事實上，我想，好吧，如果你得了癌症，在治療的地方工作也蠻方便的。 但我聽到很多氣憤的人說，什麼？你是牧師，那你應該免疫啊。就像是也許我應該先收到警告就沒事，而不是直接被開罰單，畢竟我是隊上的人。後來我就在我工作的那家癌症醫療中心做治療，真的超級方便，我做了化療，做了一次乳房切除和鹽水袋隆乳手術，在我多說一句話之前，最好現在就說，這顆是假的。（笑聲）我發現我得打開天窗說亮話，因為我會看到有人說：「噢，我知道是這一顆。」之後我動了一下，換個姿勢，他們又會說：「噢，是那顆才對。」現在你知道是哪顆了。 當病人讓我學到很多，而且很神奇的是癌症經驗當中只有一小部分和醫學有關。大部分都關於感覺、信仰，失去、找尋自我身分，發掘力量，以及你從不知道自己有的韌性。你會了解生命中最重要的事都和事情無關，而是和人際關係有關，和笑著面對不確定的事物有關，並學會逃離任何事的方法就是說：「我得了癌症。」 我學到的另一件事就是我不需要把「癌症倖存者」的角色當做自己的身分，但卻有一股強大的力量推著我這麼做。請別誤會我說的話。癌症團體、早期篩檢的慾望、罹癌意識和癌症調查都讓癌症標準化了，這是很棒的事。現在我們談論癌症不需要再竊竊私語了。我們談論癌症，還能互相打氣。但有時候感覺上只要有人表現出一點興趣，他們就能滔滔不絕地說之後我們會有什麼感覺。 大概在我做完手術一個星期後，有訪客在我家過夜。這大概是我們犯的第一個錯誤。各位要知道在我生命中的這個時刻，我已經當了超過二十年的牧師，像臨終、死亡和生命的意義這些議題都是我以前能說個沒完沒了的話題。所以那天晚餐時，客人開始高舉雙手做伸展，他說：「小黛，你知道現在你真的要了解什麼是重要的事了。沒錯，你會在生活上做出一些重大改變，現在你得開始思考自己的死亡。是啊，這癌症是叫醒你的鬧鐘。」這些金玉良言是那些過來人分享自己的經驗，但當有人告訴你你之後會有什麼感覺，那還真是一派胡言。我沒赤手空拳就殺了他的唯一理由是因為我的右手舉不起來。但我其實對他說了很難聽的字眼，後面再接一個普通的字眼，（笑聲）讓我老公不得不說：「她剛剛吃了藥。」（笑聲）在我接受治療之後，感覺就像每個人都告訴我我的經驗會有什麼意義。「噢，這表示你得走路。」「噢，這表示你中午要來聚餐。」「這表示你會穿戴粉紅色緞帶、粉紅色圓領衫、頭巾、耳環、手鐲和內褲。」內褲，不會吧，真的，你上網查。（笑聲）內褲要怎麼提高癌症意識？只有我老公才能看我的內褲呀。（笑聲）他對癌症的意識已經夠了。 那個時候我才覺得，噢！天啊！我的人生都快被癌症給控制了！就在那個時候我告訴自己，主張你的經驗。別讓經驗主張你。我們都知道處理創傷、損失和任何改變生命經驗的方法，就是找出意義。但問題是，沒有人能告訴我們自己的經驗有什麼意義。我們得自己決定意義。那不需要是什麼了不起、外顯的意義。我們不必全都去成立基金會、社團，或是寫書、拍紀錄片。意義也可以是寧靜與內斂的。也許我們能為生命做個小決定，讓它帶來大改變。 幾年前，我有個病人，他是個優秀青年，員工都很喜歡他，所以我們都很驚訝他居然沒有朋友。他自力更生，自己一個人來做化療，他接受治療，然後一個人走路回家。我還問他：「嘿！你怎麼都不找個朋友來陪你？」他說：「我其實沒什麼朋友。」但他在注射那個樓層有很多朋友。我們都愛他，也都常進出他的病房。所以他做化療的最後一天，我們為他唱歌，幫他戴上皇冠，我們還吹泡泡，然後我問他：「你之後打算做什麼？」他說：「交朋友。」他真的交了朋友。他開始當志工，在那邊交了朋友；他開始上教堂，也在那交了朋友。他邀請我們夫妻到他家參加聖誕派對，整間都塞滿了他的朋友。主張你的經驗，別讓經驗主張你。他決定這個經驗的意義是要讓他認識擁有友誼的喜悅，然後學習交朋友。 那你呢？你要怎麼在碰到的鳥事裡找出意義？可能是最近的事，或是你背負了很久的事。改變意義永遠都不晚，因為意義是動態的。今天代表的意義不見得和一年後一樣，或和十年後一樣。要跳脫倖存者的身分，變成另一個人，永遠都不遲。你聽那個詞有多沉重？倖存者。沒有動靜，毫無成長。主張你的經驗，別讓經驗主張你，因為如果你屈服了，我相信你就會變得綁手綁腳，不再進步，不再成長。 但當然有時候並不是外在壓力讓我們揹起倖存者的身分。有時候我們就喜歡隨之而來的好處。有時候會有好處。但之後我們就會陷入膠著。我剛當實習牧師學到的其中一件事就是牧師的 3C 守則：安撫 (comfort)、澄清 (clarify)，如果需要的話，面對 (confront)，或是挑戰 (challenge)。我們都蠻喜歡安撫和澄清，但可不太喜歡面對。 另一件讓我愛上當牧師的事情是在病人治療一年後，或是幾年後和他們見面，看見他們的變化、他們的生活進展，和他們發生了什麼事，感覺很酷。有天我非常興奮，因為我在診所大廳拿到一張紙，給我的是去年見過的病人，她和兩位成年的女兒一起來，我也都認識，今天是她年度追蹤的回診日。我到大廳的時候，他們欣喜若狂，因為她才剛拿到所有的檢驗結果，NED，就是「無病徵」(No Evidence of Disease)。我總是把那看做「還有半條命」(Not Entirely Dead)。他們欣喜若狂，我們都坐下，感覺很怪，因為才短短兩分鐘，她就開始重述自己當初確診、手術和化療的故事，即使身為她的牧師，我每週和她見面，我已經知道這個故事了。她當時用的字眼都是受難、非常痛苦、掙扎。最後她以這句話做結論：「我感覺被釘在十字架上處死了。」那時候，她的兩個女兒站起來說：「我們要去買咖啡。」然後就離開了。告訴我關於你的三件事，在抵達下一站之前。大家都下了公車，還聽不到她說第二或第三個故事。所以我遞給她一張面紙，給她一個擁抱，因為我真的很關心她，所以我說：「從你的十字架上下來吧。」她說：「什麼？」我又說了一次：「從你的十字架上下來吧。」她很棒的是，能說出接納癌症的理由，然後緊抓住這個身分。這件事讓她受到很多關注。換成是別人在照顧她，不是她要照顧他人，但現在卻造成了反效果，這件事不斷推開大家。大家不斷離開去買咖啡，她覺得被自己的經歷釘在十字架上處死，但她卻不想讓十字架獨自消逝。也許你會想我對她有點嚴厲，但我得告訴你，其實我是在說自己的經驗。很多年以前，我被炒魷魚，我很愛那個工作，當時我無法克制一直說自己有多無辜，還有那有多不公平、是背叛和欺騙，直到終於有一天，就像她，大家開始離我而去，直到我終於了解我不只是處理我的感受，我是在加深我的感受。我不肯讓那個十字架獨自消逝。但我們都知道每個復活的故事中，你都得先死。基督教的故事裡，耶穌死了埋在墳裡一整天，之後他才復活。我相信對我們來說，在墳裡意謂著處理我們自己深沉的內在感受，處理我們的傷口，允許自己復元。我們得讓那個處死的十字架獨自消逝，這樣新的自我、更真實的自我才能誕生。我們得讓舊的故事隨風而去，這樣新的故事，更真實的故事才能被說出來。主張自己的經驗，別讓經驗主張你。 如果沒有倖存者會如何？意思是，如果每個人決定主張創傷只是個經驗，而不把它當做是一種身分，那會如何？也許我們就不會被困在傷口裡，我們就能開啟驚人的自我探索、發覺和成長。也許那會成為我們定義自己的開端，用我們已經實現和正要變成的自己來定義。 也許倖存者不在你想說的三件事裡。那也沒關係。我只是想讓你們知道，我真的很高興我們同在這台公車上，我的站到了。 （掌聲）
