Talk	en	zh-tw
derek_paravicini_and_adam_ockelford_in_the_key_of_genius	"Adam Ockelford: I promise there won't be too much of me talking, and a lot of Derek playing, but I thought it would just be nice to recap on how Derek got to where he is today. It's amazing now, because he's so much bigger than me, but when Derek was born, he could have fitted on the palm of your hand. He was born three and a half months premature, and really it was a fantastic fight for him to survive. He had to have a lot of oxygen, and that affected your eyes, Derek, and also the way you understand language and the way you understand the world. But that was the end of the bad news, because when Derek came home from the hospital, his family decided to employ the redoubtable nanny who was going to look after you, Derek, really for the rest of your childhood. And Nanny's great insight, really, was to think, here's a child who can't see. Music must be the thing for Derek. And sure enough, she sang, or as Derek called it, warbled, to him for his first few years of life. And I think it was that excitement with hearing her voice hour after hour every day that made him think maybe, you know, in his brain something was stirring, some sort of musical gift. Here's a little picture of Derek going up now, when you were with your nanny. Now Nanny's great other insight was to think, perhaps we should get Derek something to play, and sure enough, she dragged this little keyboard out of the loft, never thinking really that anything much would come of it. But Derek, your tiny hand must have gone out to that thing and actually bashed it, bashed it so hard they thought it was going to break. But out of all the bashing, after a few months, emerged the most fantastic music, and I think there was just a miracle moment, really, Derek, when you realized that all the sounds you hear in the world out there is something that you can copy on the keyboard. That was the great eureka moment. Now, not being able to see meant, of course, that you taught yourself. Derek Paravicini: I taught myself to play. AO: You did teach yourself to play, and as a consequence, playing the piano for you, Derek, was a lot of knuckles and karate chops, and even a bit of nose going on in there. And now, here's what Nanny did also do was to press the record button on one of those little early tape recorders that they had, and this is a wonderful tape, now, of Derek playing when you were four years old. DP: ""Molly Malone (Cockles and Mussels)."" AO: It wasn't actually ""Cockles and Mussels."" This one is ""English Country Garden."" DP: ""English Country Garden."" (Music: ""English Country Garden"") AO: There you are. (Applause) I think that's just fantastic. You know, there's this little child who can't see, can't really understand much about the world, has no one in the family who plays an instrument, and yet he taught himself to play that. And as you can see from the picture, there was quite a lot of body action going on while you were playing, Derek. Now, along — Derek and I met when he was four and a half years old, and at first, Derek, I thought you were mad, to be honest, because when you played the piano, you seemed to want to play every single note on the keyboard, and also you had this little habit of hitting me out of the way. So as soon as I tried to get near the piano, I was firmly shoved off. And having said to your dad, Nic, that I would try to teach you, I was then slightly confused as to how I might go about that if I wasn't allowed near the piano. But after a while, I thought, well, the only way is to just pick you up, shove Derek over to the other side of the room, and in the 10 seconds that I got before Derek came back, I could just play something very quickly for him to learn. And in the end, Derek, I think you agreed that we could actually have some fun playing the piano together. As you can see, there's me in my early, pre-marriage days with a brown beard, and little Derek concentrating there. I just realized this is going to be recorded, isn't it? Right. Okay. (Laughter) Now then, by the age of 10, Derek really had taken the world by storm. This is a photo of you, Derek, playing at the Barbican with the Royal Philharmonic Pops. Basically it was just an exciting journey, really. And in those days, Derek, you didn't speak very much, and so there was always a moment of tension as to whether you'd actually understood what it was we were going to play and whether you'd play the right piece in the right key, and all that kind of thing. But the orchestra were wowed as well, and the press of the world were fascinated by your ability to play these fantastic pieces. Now the question is, how do you do it, Derek? And hopefully we can show the audience now how it is you do what you do. I think that one of the first things that happened when you were very little, Derek, was that by the time you were two, your musical ear had already outstripped that of most adults. And so whenever you heard any note at all — if I just play a random note — (Piano notes) — you knew instantly what it was, and you'd got the ability as well to find that note on the piano. Now that's called perfect pitch, and some people have perfect pitch for a few white notes in the middle of the piano. (Piano notes) You can see how — you get a sense of playing with Derek. (Applause) But Derek, your ear is so much more than that. If I just put the microphone down for a bit, I'm going to play a cluster of notes. Those of you who can see will know how many notes, but Derek, of course, can't. Not only can you say how many notes, it's being able to play them all at the same time. Here we are. (Chords) Well, forget the terminology, Derek. Fantastic. And it's that ability, that ability to hear simultaneous sounds, not only just single sounds, but when a whole orchestra is playing, Derek, you can hear every note, and instantly, through all those hours and hours of practice, reproduce those on the keyboard, that makes you, I think, is the basis of all your ability. Now then. It's no use having that kind of raw ability without the technique, and luckily, Derek, you decided that, once we did start learning, you'd let me help you learn all the scale fingerings. So for example using your thumb under with C major. (Piano notes) Etc. And in the end, you got so quick, that things like ""Flight of the Bumblebee"" were no problem, were they? DP: No. AO: Right. So here, by the age of 11, Derek was playing things like this. DP: This. (Music: ""Flight of the Bumblebee"") (Applause) AO: Derek, let's have a bow. Well done. Now the truly amazing thing was, with all those scales, Derek, you could not only play ""Flight of the Bumblebee"" in the usual key, but any note I play, Derek can play it on. So if I just choose a note at random, like that one. (Piano notes) Can you play ""Flight of the Bumblebee"" on that note? DP: ""Flight of the Bumblebee"" on that note. (Music: ""Flight of the Bumblebee"") AO: Or another one? How about in G minor? DP: G minor. (Music: ""Flight of the Bumblebee"") AO: Fantastic. Well done, Derek. So you see, in your brain, Derek, is this amazing musical computer that can instantly recalibrate, recalculate, all the pieces in the world that are out there. Most pianists would have a heart attack if you said, ""Sorry, do you mind playing 'Flight of the Bumblebee' in B minor instead of A minor?"" as we went on. In fact, the first time, Derek, you played that with an orchestra, you'd learned the version that you'd learned, and then the orchestra, in fact, did have a different version, so while we were waiting in the two hours before the rehearsal and the concert, Derek listened to the different version and learned it quickly and then was able to play it with the orchestra. Fantastic chap. The other wonderful thing about you is memory. DP: Memory. AO: Your memory is truly amazing, and every concert we do, we ask the audience to participate, of course, by suggesting a piece Derek might like to play. And people say, ""Well, that's terribly brave because what happens if Derek doesn't know it?"" And I say, ""No, it's not brave at all, because if you ask for something that Derek doesn't know, you're invited to come and sing it first, and then he'll pick it up."" (Laughter) So just be thoughtful before you suggest something too outlandish. But seriously, would anyone like to choose a piece? DP: Choose a piece. Choose, choose, would you like to choose? AO: Because it's quite dark. You'll just have to shout out. Would you like to hear me play? (Audience: ""Theme of Paganini."") AO: Paganini. DP: ""The Theme of Paganini."" (Laughter) (Music: ""Theme of Paganini"") (Applause) AO: Well done. Derek's going to L.A. soon, and it's a milestone, because it means that Derek and I will have spent over 100 hours on long-haul flights together, which is quite interesting, isn't it Derek? DP: Very interesting, Adam, yes. Long-haul flights. Yes. AO: You may think 13 hours is a long time to keep talking, but Derek does it effortlessly. Now then. (Laughter) But in America, they've coined this term, ""the human iPod"" for Derek, which I think is just missing the point, really, because Derek, you're so much more than an iPod. You're a fantastic, creative musician, and I think that was nowhere clearer to see, really, than when we went to Slovenia, and someone — in a longer concert we tend to get people joining in, and this person, very, very nervously came onto the stage. DP: He played ""Chopsticks."" AO: And played ""Chopsticks."" DP: ""Chopsticks."" AO: A bit like this. DP: Like this. Yes. (Piano notes) AO: I should really get Derek's manager to come and play it. He's sitting there. DP: Somebody played ""Chopsticks"" like this. AO: Just teasing, right? Here we go. (Music: ""Chopsticks"") DP: Let Derek play it. AO: What did you do with it, Derek? DP: I got to improvise with it, Adam. AO: This is Derek the musician. (Music: ""Chopsticks"" improvisation) (Applause) (Music) (Clapping) Keep up with Derek. (Music) (Applause) The TED people will kill me, but perhaps there's time for one encore. DP: For one encore. AO: One encore, yes. So this is one of Derek's heroes. It's the great Art Tatum — DP: Art Tatum. AO: — who also was a pianist who couldn't see, and also, I think, like Derek, thought that all the world was a piano, so whenever Art Tatum plays something, it sounds like there's three pianos in the room. And here is Derek's take on Art Tatum's take on ""Tiger Rag."" DP: ""Tiger Rag."" (Music: ""Tiger Rag"") (Applause)"	"亞當‧奧克爾福特：我保證我的演講不會太長而會有很多德瑞克演奏的場面但我認為可以講講德雷克如何能有今天的成就 神奇的是，他現在比我還要高大了他剛出生的時候還只有巴掌那麼大他是個提前了三個半月出生的早產兒他能夠活下來一定經歷過一場生死掙扎他必須吸入大量氧氣但也導致德瑞克的雙眼受到了感染也影響你理解語言的方式理解這個世界的方式但所有的負面訊息就僅止於此因為德雷克從醫院到回家的時候他家人決定請這位令人敬佩的保姆照顧德雷克德雷克小時候都是由她來照顧這位保姆觀察力真的非常好想想看 這孩子看不見音樂一定對德雷克很重要我確定的是德雷克都說她唱歌聽起來愉悅動人她在他剛出生的頭幾年常常唱歌給他聽我覺得就是聽到她歌聲所引起的衝動每天都一小時又一小時地聽開始讓他覺得也許他的大腦裡也有能激勵人心的東西就是某種音樂天分這裡有一張德瑞克的照片你和你的保姆在一起拍的 保姆用她驚人的洞察力認為或許我們應該給德瑞克玩些東西於是她從閣樓拿來這個小鍵盤未曾真正想過它對德雷克造成的影響但是德雷克的小手肯定很喜歡這東西就開始敲打鍵盤用力打到大家都以為鍵盤快壞了但是幾個月過後 他就沒有在敲打鍵盤了慢慢的就演奏出最美妙的音樂我覺得奇蹟真的出現了當你意識到世界上所有聲音你都聽得到時你也可以用鍵盤演奏出一樣的聲音這時真的是令人非常驚豔 看不見就意味著你必須靠自學 德雷克‧帕拉維奇尼：我是自己學會彈琴的。 亞當：你的確是自己學會的，這就使得，彈鋼琴對你來說意味著手指不斷敲擊，手掌打擊甚至連鼻子都派上用場 保姆就是按下早期小台的卡帶式錄音機的錄音鍵這是就是德雷克四歲時彈奏曲子的錄音帶。 德雷克：茉莉夢露（海蚌和貝殼）。” 亞當：準確來說也不是“海蚌和貝殼”這首是 “英倫花園” 德雷克：“英倫花園” （音樂：“英倫花園”） 亞當：就是這些。 （掌聲） 我覺得這真的很厲害他可是個雙眼失明的孩子他沒辦法真正理解這個世界他家也沒有人會彈奏樂器但他靠著自學才有今天的成果正如你們從照片看到的那樣當德雷克在演奏的時候會有很多肢體動作 我第一次見到德雷克是在他四歲半的時候老實說 剛開始我還以為德雷克你瘋了因為你在彈鋼琴的時候你好像每個音鍵都想按你也有個小習慣就是喜歡把我推到一邊去所以每次我想要靠近鋼琴的時候都會被你用力推開我已經告訴你的父親尼克我試著教你彈鋼琴但我有點疑惑在連鋼琴都不能靠近的情況下我要怎麼教呢?不過之後我想到唯一的辦法就是先把你抱到房間的另一端然後在十秒內搶著在德雷克前跑回來然後快速地彈些曲子讓他學習最後我認為你也同意說我們一起彈鋼琴也滿好玩的你們看這是我年輕的時候還沒結婚 留著棕色的鬍子還有專心彈著鋼琴的小德雷克 我剛想到這些東西會被錄下來是嗎?好吧，沒問題。 （笑聲） 德雷克10歲的時候風靡全球這是一張你在巴比肯音樂廳和皇家交響樂團演奏的照片那真是一次激勵人心的旅程那幾天德雷克話不多總會讓人感到緊張不管你真的知不知道我們要表演什麼不論你是否能彈對每一個音符還有其他之類的事但我相信仍會驚豔這個交響樂團全世界的新聞媒體都會被你彈奏出的美妙樂章深深吸引 問題是你要怎麼做?希望我們現在能向觀眾們展現你是如何做到你現在在做的事 我覺得剛開始德雷克還很小只有兩歲的時候你的音樂天份就已經超過多數成人了不管什麼時候 你聽到任何聲音即使我只是隨意的彈幾個音(鋼琴聲)你馬上就知道是那是什麼音調你也能在琴鍵上找出這個音符我們將這種能力稱作「絕對音感」有一些人則對某些琴鍵中間的白鍵有絕對音感有一些人則對某些琴鍵中間的白鍵有絕對音感 (鋼琴音) 你就可以發現跟德雷克的互動方式 (掌聲） 但是德雷克你耳朵的能力不僅於此假如我稍微把我的麥克風放下来我會彈一組音符你们看得到的人會知道我彈了幾個但德雷克當然不知道他不但知道有幾個音符他還可以同時完整彈出來 開始了 （合音） 不用去想那些術語是什麼 彈得太棒了絕對音感能夠讓他同時聽到很多聲音不僅是一個音 而是整个交響樂團所彈奏的樂章德雷克能聽到每一個音符透過不斷重複的練習馬上就能用他手邊的琴鍵重現我認為這造就現在的你也是你所有能力的基礎 現在雖然有天賦但是沒有技術也是沒用幸運的是 德雷克你決定剛開始練習的時候 你就讓我在旁幫助你學習指法所以例如用你的拇指按下C大調 (鋼琴彈奏聲) 等等 最後 你彈奏速度變很快像是""大黃蜂的飛行""這種曲子就沒問題 對不對? 德雷克：對 亞當：所以 德雷克11歲的時候就能像這樣彈得這麼好 德雷克：這樣 (音樂：""大黃蜂的飛行"")(掌聲) 亞當：德雷克向大家敬個禮 謝謝大家 很好 真正令人驚豔的事 用所有音階德瑞克不只能一般音調彈奏""大黃蜂的飛行""只要我彈任何音德瑞克也可以用這個音調彈出來所以如果我隨機挑一個音像這一個音(鋼琴音)你能用這個音彈""大黃蜂的飛行""嗎? 德瑞克：用這個音彈""大黃蜂的飛行"" (音樂：""大黃蜂的飛行"") 亞當：用另一個呢? 用G小調彈彈看呢? 德瑞克：G小調 (音樂：""大黃蜂的飛行"") 亞當：好厲害 德瑞克你做得很好 你看吧! 德瑞克在你的大腦裡有一台很厲害的音樂家電腦讓你能馬上重新校準、計算世界上所有的音樂作品多數鋼琴家可能會心臟病發如果你說""不好意思 可以請你彈'大黃蜂的飛行'但不要用A小調 而是用B小調?""事實上 德雷克你第一次與交響樂團一起演奏時你就學到你已經學過的那種版本了事實上 之後交響樂團有另一個不同的版本在我們等了兩個小時的同時在預演與演奏會開始之前德雷克聽到不同的版本也很快就學會了隨後就能馬上與交響樂團一起演奏很厲害的傢伙 你另一像很驚人的技能就是記憶力 德瑞克：記憶力亞當：你的記憶力真的很驚人 每次演奏會我們都會邀請觀眾讓德雷克彈一首他可能不是很拿手的曲子大家會說""那真的很勇敢""因為會發生什麼事都不知道如果德雷克不知道這首曲子的話我說""不 這因為如果你們叫德雷克彈一首他不知道的曲子我們會先請你上台來獻唱一次他就會了 之後就由他來幫你代勞(笑聲) 所以在你講出某些很冷門的曲子時你自己要先好好想想 說真的 現場有人想來點一首曲子嗎? 德瑞克：點一首 點一首 你們想點首曲子嗎?亞當：現場光線太暗 你們可以大聲講出來嗎?你們想要聽我演奏嗎? (觀眾：""帕格尼尼主題狂想曲"") 亞當：帕格尼尼德雷克：""帕格尼尼主題狂想曲"" (笑聲) (音樂：帕格尼尼主題狂想曲) (掌聲) 亞當：彈得很好 德雷克不久後要去洛杉磯演出這是一項里程碑 因為這就表示德雷克和我一起搭乘長途航班 飛行超過100個小時這也相當有趣 對不對德雷克? 德雷克：非常有趣 亞當 好耶 長途旅程 太棒了 亞當：你可能會覺得講話要講13小時會很久但是對德雷克來說是輕而易舉 (笑聲) 但在美國 他們為德雷克創造出一個新辭彙叫做""人類iPod""我認為這有點曲解原意了因為德雷克的才能遠比iPod還厲害你是一位很厲害、很有創意的音樂家我認為這件事大家一看就知道我們去斯洛維尼亞共和國的時候在一場演出時間較長的演奏會這個人很緊張地走上台 德雷克：他演奏""筷子""亞當：那就彈""筷子"" 德雷克：""筷子"" 亞當：就有點像這樣德雷克：像這樣 對 (鋼琴聲) 亞當：我真的覺得該讓德雷克的經紀人上台來彈彈看他坐在那裡 德雷克：有人像這樣彈""筷子""亞當：開玩笑的 開始吧 (音樂：""筷子"") 德雷克：我自己彈 亞當：德雷克你想做什麼? 德雷克：我想來個即興演出 亞當：這就是音樂家德雷克(音樂：""筷子""即興演奏版) (掌聲) (音樂)(拍手聲) 跟上德雷克的節奏 (音樂) (掌聲) TED主辦單位會把我殺了但是也許還有時間加演一場 德雷克：再加演一場亞當：好 再加演一場 這位是德雷克崇拜的偶像之ㄧ就是這位偉大的阿特·塔圖姆德雷克：阿特·塔圖姆 亞當：他也是一位盲眼鋼琴家跟德雷克一樣我認為世界上最重要的就是鋼琴所以不管阿特·塔圖姆什麼時候在彈奏曲子都聽起來像這個空間裡有三台鋼琴現在德雷克要帶來的就是阿特·塔圖姆版本的""嬉戲的老虎"" 德雷克：嬉戲的老虎 (音樂：嬉戲的老虎) (掌聲)"
