Talk	en	zh-tw
drew_curtis_how_i_beat_a_patent_troll	"Last January, my company, Fark.com, was sued along with Yahoo, MSN, Reddit, AOL, TechCrunch and others by a company called Gooseberry Natural Resources. Gooseberry owned a patent for the creation and distribution of news releases via email. (Laughter) Now it may seem kind of strange that such a thing can actually be patented, but it does happen all the time. Take something already being done and patent it for an emerging technology — like phone calls on the internet or video listings for TV shows or radio but for cellphones, and so on. The problem with these patents is that the mechanisms are obscure and the patent system is dysfunctional, and as a result, most of these lawsuits end in settlements. And because these settlements are under a non-disclosure agreement, no one knows what the terms were. And as a result, the patent troll can claim that they won the case. In the case of Gooseberry Natural Resources, this patent on emailing news releases had sort of a fatal flaw as it pertained to myself, and that was that in the mainstream media world there is only one definition for news release, and it turns out that is press release — as in P.R. Now my company, Fark, deals with news, ostensibly, and as a result we were not in violation of this patent. So case closed, right? Wrong. One of the major problems with patent law is that, in the case that when you are sued by a patent troll, the burden of proof that you did not infringe on the patent is actually on the defendant, which means you have to prove that you do not infringe on the patent they're suing you on. And this can take quite a while. You need to know that the average patent troll defense costs two million dollars and takes 18 months when you win. That is your best case outcome when you get sued by a patent troll. Now I had hoped to team up with some of these larger companies in order to defend against this lawsuit, but one-by-one they settled out of the case, even though — and this is important — none of these companies infringed on this patent — not a one of them. And they started settling out. The reason they settled out is because it's cheaper to settle than to fight the lawsuit — clearly, two million dollars cheaper in some cases, and much worse if you actually lose. It would also constitute a massive distraction for management of a company, especially a small eight-man shop like my company. Six months into the lawsuit, we finally reached the discovery phase. And in discovery phase, we asked the patent troll to please provide screenshots of Fark where the infringement of their patent was actually occurring. Now perhaps it's because no such screenshots actually existed, but suddenly Gooseberry wanted to settle. Their attorney: ""Ah, yes. My company's having a reorganization on our end."" Never mind the fact that the address led to a strip mall somewhere in Northern L.A. with no employees. ""And we'd like to go ahead and close this out. So would you mind giving us your best and final offer?"" My response: ""How about nothing?!"" (Applause) We didn't have high hopes for that outcome. (Laughter) But they settled. No counter offer. Now, as mentioned before, one of the reasons I can talk to you about this is because there's no non-disclosure agreement on this case. Now how did that happen? Well during the settlement process, when we received our copy, I struck it. My attorney said, ""Nah, no chance of that working."" It came back signed. Now why? You can call them. They're not under NDA either. Now what did I learn from this case? Well, three things. First of all, if you can, don't fight the patent, fight the infringement. Patents are very difficult to overturn. Infringement is a lot easier to disprove. Secondly, make it clear from the beginning that either you have no money at all or that you would rather spend money with your attorney fighting the troll than actually giving them the money. Now the reason this works is because patent trolls are paid a percentage of what they're able to recover in settlements. If it becomes clear to them that they cannot recover any money, they become less interested in pursuing the case. Finally, make sure that you can tell them that you will make this process as annoying and as painful and as difficult as possible for them. Now this is a tactic that patent trolls are supposed to use on people to get their way. It turns out, because they're paid on contingency, it works really, really well in reverse. Don't forget that. So what does all this mean? Well to sum up, it boils down to one thing: Don't negotiate with terrorists. (Applause) Patent trolls have done more damage to the United States economy than any domestic or foreign terrorist organization in history every year. And what do they do with that money? They plow it right back into filing more troll lawsuits. Now this is the point in the Talk where I'm supposed to come up with some kind of a solution for the patent system. And the problem with that is that there are two very large industry groups that have different outcomes in mind for the patent system. The health care industry would like stronger protections for inventors. The hi-tech industry would like stronger protections for producers. And these goals aren't necessarily diametrically opposed, but they are at odds. And as a result, patent trolls can kind of live in the space in between. So unfortunately I'm not smart enough to have a solution for the patent troll problem. However, I did have this idea, and it was kind of good. And I thought, ""I should patent this."" (Laughter) Behold, patent infringement via mobile device — defined as a computer which is not stationary. My solution: award me this patent and I will troll them out of existence. Thank you. (Applause)"	"去年一月 我的公司 Fark.com 被人告了一同被告的還有 雅虎, MSN, Reddit,美國在線, TechCrunch 等提告的是一家叫 Gooseberry Natural Resources 的公司這家公司擁有透過電子郵件來來產生和發佈新聞稿的專利（笑聲）這也可以是專利 真的令人難以致信但這種事並不少見 將已經存在的東西作為新興技術申請專利像透過網路打電話或將影片目錄用在電視上還有在手機上聼收聲機等等之所以會有這些關於專利權的糾紛是因為這方面的機制含糊不清還有專利系統的不健全結果導致大部分的訴訟都以和解收場又因爲和解的保密條款沒有人知道和解的内容是什麽所以這些專利蟑螂可以宣稱他們贏了官司 在Gooseberry Natural Resources 的例子裏用電子郵件發送新聞稿的專利在我看來有一個致命的缺陷這個缺陷就是在主流媒體中對發佈新聞稿的定義只有一個就是報道新聞的文字稿也就是公關學裏對新聞稿的定義而我的公司 Fark很明顯 只在處理新聞而不是新聞稿 所以我們並沒有侵犯這個專利所以官司可以了結 對不對？錯 專利法一個大問題是當你被一個專利蟑螂告的時候去舉證沒有侵犯該專利的責任是落在被告的身上也就是說你要去證明你沒有侵犯他們所提出的專利這很花時間大家要知道 處理專利蟑螂控告的案件每件平均要花2百萬美元就算你最後勝訴 這個司法過程共需要18個月這還是被專利蟑螂起訴的最佳結局 我那時想跟一些大公司聯手來共同打這個官司但是他們一個接一個地選擇和解但重點是沒有任何一家公司有侵犯到這個專利 完全沒有他們就這樣和解了他們這麽做的原因是和解所需的費用比訴訟少因為即使你贏了, 你也要付200萬美元的訴訟費而如果官司輸了, 你就要賠更多的錢同時, 法律訴訟會嚴重打亂公司的管理節奏特別是我這種只由8人組成的小公司來說 進入司法程序的第6個月終於到了舉證的階段在舉證的階段我們要求專利蟑螂拿出我們公司侵犯他們專利實際例子的截圖或許是因爲這樣的截圖根本不存在Gooseberry突然說要和解他們的律師說“喔。 因爲我們公司内部正在重整，”但事實是這個公司位於洛杉磯北部的某購物中心那裏根本就沒人在辦公“所以我們希望快快解決這個案件，展望未來，所以可不可以告訴我 你們願意付多少和解金呢?""我的回答是：“零元，你看怎樣？!”（掌聲）我們對這個價碼沒太多信心（笑聲）但是他們同意和解而且沒有討價還價 我剛剛也提到我今天還能在這裡跟大家談這個案子原因是這個和解沒有保密條款為甚麼呢?這是因為 在我們收到和解書時候 我把它劃掉了我的律師說: “對方不大可能會同意啊。”但 對方簽了那份和解書爲什麽會這樣？你可以打電話問他們他們也不受保密條款的限制 那麽我從這個案子學到了什麽？三件事第一 可以的話不要從專利上下手 要從專利侵害上下手否決專利訴訟很困難但專利侵害則比較容易提出反證第二 一開始就講清楚說你根本沒半毛錢或是說你寧願花錢告垮專利蟑螂也不願把錢給他們爲什麽這會有用是因爲專利蟑螂能在和解金上抽成如果他們覺得在這個案件上得不到錢他們就不會有興趣告到底 最後一點 明白地告訴他們說你會盡全力把訴訟過程弄得非常麻煩令他們痛不欲生、雞犬不寧這本來是那些專利蟑螂為達到目的耍的技倆但是因爲他們只有勝訴時才有酬勞所以這個方法十分有效一定要記住這個 那麽這一切要告訴我們什麽？總結的來説可以用以下一句話來做結論絕對不跟恐怖分子協商（掌聲）專利蟑螂每年對美國的經濟所帶來的傷害比起任何時期國内國外的任何恐怖組織都還要大那他們怎麽花那些和解金？他們把和解金起訴更多的公司 這個演講進行到這我應該要為完善專利系統提出一些建議但問題是目前有兩大工業他們對專利系統有不同的主張和看法醫療衛生工業希望對發明者有更多的保護而高科技產業則希望對製造商有更多的保護這兩個觀點不是對立的，但並不一致這導致專利蟑螂能在中間的灰色地帶生存 所以很不幸地 我還不夠聰明沒能想出對付專利蟑螂的辦法但是我倒是有個主意我覺得挺不錯的主意我在想 我該給我的主意申請專利保護（笑聲）大家小心了。為定義為非固定電腦的移動裝置申請專利我的解決方法是：將這個專利給我我會用這個專利將專利蟑螂趕盡殺絕 謝謝大家 （掌聲）"
