Talk	en	zh-tw
dustin_yellin_a_journey_through_the_mind_of_an_artist	"I was raised by lesbians in the mountains, and I sort of came like a forest gnome to New York City a while back. (Laughter) Really messed with my head, but I'll get into that later. I'll start with when I was eight years old. I took a wood box, and I buried a dollar bill, a pen and a fork inside this box in Colorado. And I thought some strange humanoids or aliens in 500 years would find this box and learn about the way our species exchanged ideas, maybe how we ate our spaghetti. I really didn't know. Anyway, this is kind of funny, because here I am, 30 years later, and I'm still making boxes. Now, at some point I was in Hawaii — I like to hike and surf and do all that weird stuff, and I was making a collage for my ma. And I took a dictionary and I ripped it up, and I made it into a sort of Agnes Martin grid, and I poured resin all over it and a bee got stuck. Now, she's afraid of bees and she's allergic to them, so I poured more resin on the canvas, thinking I could hide it or something. Instead, the opposite happened: It sort of created a magnification, like a magnifying glass, on the dictionary text. So what did I do? I built more boxes. This time, I started putting electronics, frogs, strange bottles I'd find in the street — anything I could find — because I was always finding things my whole life, and trying to make relationships and tell stories between these objects. So I started drawing around the objects, and I realized: Holy moly, I can draw in space! I can make free-floating lines, like the way you would draw around a dead body at a crime scene. So I took the objects out, and I created my own taxonomy of invented specimens. First, botanical — which you can kind of get a sense of. Then I made some weird insects and creatures. It was really fun; I was just drawing on the layers of resin. And it was cool, because I was actually starting to have shows and stuff, I was making some money, I could take my girlfriend for dinner, and like, go to Sizzler. It was some good shit, man. (Laughter) At some point, I got up to the human form, life-size resin sculptures with drawings of humans inside the layers. This was great, except for one thing: I was going to die. I didn't know what to do, because the resin was going to kill me. And I went to bed every night thinking about it. So I tried using glass. I started drawing on the layers of glass, almost like if you drew on a window, then you put another window, and another window, and you had all these windows together that made a three-dimensional composition. And this really worked, because I could stop using the resin. So I did this for years, which culminated in a very large work, which I call ""The Triptych."" ""The Triptych"" was largely inspired by Hieronymus Bosch's ""[The] Garden of Earthly Delights,"" which is a painting in the [Museo del] Prado in Spain. Do you guys know this painting? Good, it's a cool painting. It's kind of ahead of its time, they say. So, ""The Triptych."" I'll walk you through this piece. It weighs 24,000 pounds. It's 18 feet long. It's double-sided, so it's 36 feet of composition. It's kind of weird. Well, that's the blood fountain. (Laughter) To the left, you have Jesus and the locusts. There's a cave where all these animal-headed creatures travel between two worlds. They go from the representational world, to this analog-mesh underworld, where they're hiding. This is where the animal-headed creatures are by the lighthouse, and they're all about to commit mass suicide into the ocean. The ocean is made up of thousands of elements. This is a bird god tied up to a battleship. (Laughter) Billy Graham is in the ocean; the Horizon from the oil spill; Waldo; Osama Bin Laden's shelter — there's all kinds of weird stuff that you can find if you look really hard, in the ocean. Anyway, this is a lady creature. She's coming out of the ocean, and she's spitting oil into one hand and she has clouds coming out of her other hand. Her hands are like scales, and she has the mythological reference of the Earth and cosmos in balance. So that's one side of ""The Triptych."" It's a little narrative thing. That's her hand that she's spitting into. And then, when you go to the other side, she has like a trunk, like a bird's beak, and she's spitting clouds out of her trunk. Then she has an 18-foot-long serpent's tail that connects ""The Triptych."" Anyway, her tail catches on fire from the back of the volcano. (Laughter) I don't know why that happened. (Laughter) That happens, you know. Her tail terminates in a cycloptic eyeball, made out of 1986 terrorist cards. Have you guys seen those? They were made in the 1980's, they're like baseball cards of terrorists. Way ahead of their time. (Laughter) That will bring you to my latest project. I'm in the middle of two projects: One's called ""Psychogeographies."" It's about a six-year project to make 100 of these humans. Each one is an archive of our culture, through our ripped-up media and matter, whether it's encyclopedias or dictionaries or magazines. But each one acts as a sort of an archive in the shape of a human, and they travel in groups of 20, 4, or 12 at a time. They're like cells — they come together, they divide. And you kind of walk through them. It's taking me years. Each one is basically a 3,000-pound microscope slide with a human stuck inside. This one has a little cave in his chest. That's his head; there's the chest, you can kind of see the beginning. I'm going to go down the body for you: There's a waterfall coming out of his chest, covering his penis — or not-penis, or whatever it is, a kind of androgynous thing. I'll take you quickly through these works, because I can't explain them for too long. There are the layers, you can kind of see it. That's a body getting split in half. This one has two heads, and it's communicating between the two heads. You can see the pills coming out, going into one head from this weird statue. There's a little forest scene inside the chest cavity. Can you see that? Anyway, this talk's all about these boxes, like the boxes we're in. This box we're in, the solar system is a box. This brings you to my latest box. It's a brick box. It's called Pioneer Works. (Cheers) Inside of this box is a physicist, a neuroscientist, a painter, a musician, a writer, a radio station, a museum, a school, a publishing arm to disseminate all the content we make there into the world; a garden. We shake this box up, and all these people kind of start hitting each other like particles. And I think that's the way you change the world. You redefine your insides and the box that you're living in. And you come together to realize that we're all in this together, that this delusion of difference — this idea of countries, of borders, of religion — doesn't work. We're all really made up of the same stuff, in the same box. And if we don't start exchanging that stuff sweetly and nicely, we're all going to die real soon. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我是在山上，被女同性戀撫養長大的，而我就像來自森林的精靈一般，來到紐約市辦點事再回去。（笑聲）紐約把我腦子搞得很複雜，稍後我再說明。 我從我八歲開始講起。我拿了一個木盒，把一張紙鈔、一隻筆和一支叉子放進盒中後埋在科羅拉多洲。我在想，一些奇怪的生物或外星人會在五百年後找到這盒子，並了解我們人類是如何交換想法，可能是我們吃義大利麵的方式等等，我真的不知道。不管怎樣，這還是挺有趣的。因為三十年後我來到這演說，且我仍然在製造盒子。 在不久前，我在夏威夷。我喜歡健行和衝浪和嘗試各種奇怪的事情，我給我媽做了一個拼貼畫。我拿起了一本字典，然後把它撕了。我將它弄成艾格尼斯．馬丁格子般，倒入樹脂，一隻蜜蜂被困住了。我媽很怕蜜蜂且對牠們過敏，於是我往畫板上倒了更多的樹脂，希望可以遮蓋那隻蜜蜂什麼的。然而，卻發生相反的事：像是增加了一種放大效果，就像用放大鏡來看字典裡的文字。 所以接下來我幹什麼了？我做了更多的盒子。這次，我開始放電子產品、青蛙，我在街上找奇特的瓶子，任何我可以找到的東西，因為我終其一生在尋找東西，和嘗試建立不同的關係，並述說這些事物之間的故事。所以我開始畫周圍的事物，而我意識到：天啊，我可以在空間裡作畫！我可以畫一些天馬行空的線條，就像那些在犯罪現場的屍體附近畫的線。所以我將物件取出，我創造自己的一套分類法。首先是植物類，你們應該可以了解，然後我開始弄了一些奇怪的昆蟲和生物。很有趣，我只是在多層的樹脂上作畫。 這超酷的，因為我開始展覽我的東西，我開始賺錢，我可以帶女友去吃大餐，像是去時時樂用餐等等。這超爽的，你懂吧？（笑聲） 從某個時候開始，我開始做人體模型，有人體繪畫的真人大小樹脂雕塑。這很棒，但有件事例外：我快要掛掉了。我不知道該怎麼辦，因為那些樹脂快要把我毒死了。我每晚睡前都在想這件事。 於是我嘗試用玻璃。我開始在玻璃上作畫，幾乎像是在窗戶上畫畫，然後再疊上另一面窗戶，再一面窗戶，然後你把所有窗子都放在一起，形成一個3D立體空間的組合。這真的行得通，因為我可以不再使用樹脂。 於是我持續做了許多年，我累積了許多作品，我稱之為「三聯畫」。「三聯畫」有很大的程度受到耶羅尼米斯．博斯《人間地獄》的啟發，它是一幅存放在西班牙普拉多博物館的油畫。你們知道這幅作品嗎？很好，那是一幅不錯的作品。有些人會說，它是走在時代的尖端。我簡單地帶你們看看這件「三聯畫」作品。它重達 24,000 磅，長 18 英尺，它是雙面的，所以總共是 36 英尺。這有點奇怪。是的，那是一個血的噴泉。（笑聲）左邊你會看到耶穌和蝗蟲。那裡有一個洞穴，那些有著動物頭的生物穿梭於兩個世界之間。牠們從具象的世界，穿越到躲藏的模擬地底世界。這就是為什麼這些有動物頭的生物會在燈塔附近，而牠們像是要在大海裡搞集體自殺。大海是由成千上萬的元素組成。這是被綁在戰艦上的「鳥神」。（笑聲）葛培理牧師在這大海裡，漏油事件的地平線、瓦多、賓拉登的藏匿處等。如果你認真看大海裡的東西，就能找到各種奇怪的事物。好的，這是一個女性的生物。她從海洋裡出來，而她正在往一隻手裡吐油，她的另一隻手有雲朵跑出來，她的手就像天秤一樣，而她有地球和宇宙之間平衡的神秘關聯性。 這是「三聯畫」的其中一面，有點像是在敘述事情。這是她的手，她正在吐東西到上面。然後，當你到另一面時，她有著像鳥嘴一樣的東西，而她從尖嘴吐出雲來。然後她有著一個18英尺的蛇尾，來連接「三聯畫」。總之，她的尾巴在火山的背面著火了。（笑聲）我不知道為什麼會發生這種事。 （笑聲） 但就是會發生的。她的尾巴在一隻眼珠中結束，由1986年的「恐怖份子卡」組成的。你們有看過嗎？他們是在1980年代產物，像是恐怖分子版的棒球卡。他們還真的是走在時代的尖端啊。 （笑聲） 接下來是我最近的一個創作。我同時進行兩個計畫：一個叫「心理地圖」。這是一個需時六年的計畫，要製造100個這樣的人類。每一個是我們文化的舊事件，由各種撕碎的媒體和物體拼湊，可以是百科全書、字典或者是雜誌。但每一個代表了一種過去事件，以人類樣貌呈現，而它們會一群一群出現，每次20個，4個或者12個。它們像是細胞一般，它們一起被創造、分割。而你可以從它們之中走過，這花了我很多年的時間。每一個基本上都是3000磅的顯微鏡片，裡面存著一個人。 這一個的胸腔裡面有個小小的洞穴。這是他的頭，那是他的胸腔，你可以感受到如何開始的。接下來我會向你們介紹其他身體的部分：這是一個瀑布，從他的胸腔出來，遮蓋了老二，或者不是老二，什麼都行，有點像是雌雄同體的物體。我會快速地向你們帶過一遍這些作品，因為我不能解釋太久。你可以大概看到這裡面有很多層。這是一個分裂成兩半的身體。這一個有兩個頭，好像就在兩個頭之間溝通一樣。你可以看到，有些東西吐出來，從這個奇怪的雕像進入到這一個頭裡面。這裡有一個小小的樹林在胸腔之間。你看到了嗎？ 總之，這次的演講都是有關於這些盒子，就像我們生活在其中的盒子。太陽系就是個盒子，而我們就在這裡面。這就帶到我最新的盒子。這是個磚頭盒子，叫做「先驅者之作」。 （歡呼） 在這個盒子裡，有個物理學家、一個神經學家、畫家、音樂家、一個作家、廣播站、博物館、學校、一間向全世界宣傳我們作品內容的出版公司、一個花園。我們搖動這個盒子，而這些人就像顆粒一樣互相撞擊著對方。 我想，這就是你可以改變世界的方法。你重新定義自己的內在，和你生活在其中的那個盒子。然後你會意識到我們都在這裡面，彼此差別的這種錯覺──國家、邊界、宗教差異等──在盒中全部都不存在。我們其實是在同一個盒子裡由同樣的物件組成。而如果我們現在不開始好好地、友好地互相交換這個東西，我們很快就會滅亡了。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
