Talk	en	zh-tw
ed_yong_suicidal_wasps_zombie_roaches_and_other_tales_of_parasites	"A herd of wildebeests, a shoal of fish, a flock of birds. Many animals gather in large groups that are among the most wonderful spectacles in the natural world. But why do these groups form? The common answers include things like seeking safety in numbers or hunting in packs or gathering to mate or breed, and all of these explanations, while often true, make a huge assumption about animal behavior, that the animals are in control of their own actions, that they are in charge of their bodies. And that is often not the case. This is Artemia, a brine shrimp. You probably know it better as a sea monkey. It's small, and it typically lives alone, but it can gather in these large red swarms that span for meters, and these form because of a parasite. These shrimp are infected with a tapeworm. A tapeworm is effectively a long, living gut with genitals at one end and a hooked mouth at the other. As a freelance journalist, I sympathize. (Laughter) The tapeworm drains nutrients from Artemia's body, but it also does other things. It castrates them, it changes their color from transparent to bright red, it makes them live longer, and as biologist Nicolas Rode has found, it makes them swim in groups. Why? Because the tapeworm, like many other parasites, has a complicated life cycle involving many different hosts. The shrimp are just one step on its journey. Its ultimate destination is this, the greater flamingo. Only in a flamingo can the tapeworm reproduce, so to get there, it manipulates its shrimp hosts into forming these conspicuous colored swarms that are easier for a flamingo to spot and to devour, and that is the secret of the Artemia swarm. They aren't sociable through their own volition, but because they are being controlled. It's not safety in numbers. It's actually the exact opposite. The tapeworm hijacks their brains and their bodies, turning them into vehicles for getting itself into a flamingo. And here is another example of a parasitic manipulation. This is a suicidal cricket. This cricket swallowed the  larvae of a Gordian worm, or horsehair worm. The worm grew to adult size within it, but it needs to get into water in order to mate, and it does that by releasing proteins that addle the cricket's brain, causing it to behave erratically. When the cricket nears a body of water, such as this swimming pool, it jumps in and drowns, and the worm wriggles out of its suicidal corpse. Crickets are really roomy. Who knew? The tapeworm and the Gordian worm are not alone. They are part of an entire cavalcade of mind-controlling parasites, of fungi, viruses, and worms and insects and more that all specialize in subverting and overriding the wills of their hosts. Now, I first learned about this way of life through David Attenborough's ""Trials of Life"" about 20 years ago, and then later through a wonderful book called ""Parasite Rex"" by my friend Carl Zimmer. And I've been writing about these creatures ever since. Few topics in biology enthrall me more. It's like the parasites have subverted my own brain. Because after all, they are always compelling and they are delightfully macabre. When you write about parasites, your lexicon swells with phrases like ""devoured alive"" and ""bursts out of its body."" (Laughter) But there's more to it than that. I'm a writer, and fellow writers in the audience will know that we love stories. Parasites invite us to resist the allure of obvious stories. Their world is one of plot twists and unexpected explanations. Why, for example, does this caterpillar start violently thrashing about when another insect gets close to it and those white cocoons that it seems to be standing guard over? Is it maybe protecting its siblings? No. This caterpillar was attacked by a parasitic wasp which laid eggs inside it. The eggs hatched and the young wasps devoured the caterpillar alive before bursting out of its body. See what I mean? Now, the caterpillar didn't die. Some of the wasps seemed to stay behind and controlled it into defending their siblings which are metamorphosing into adults within those cocoons. This caterpillar is a head-banging  zombie bodyguard defending the offspring of the creature that killed it. (Applause) We have a lot to get through.  I only have 13 minutes. (Laughter) Now, some of you are probably just desperately clawing for some solace in the idea that these things are oddities of the natural world, that they are outliers, and that point of view is understandable, because by their nature, parasites are quite small and they spend a lot of their time inside the bodies of other things. They're easy to overlook, but that doesn't mean that they aren't important. A few years back, a man called Kevin Lafferty took a group of scientists into three Californian estuaries and they pretty much weighed and dissected and recorded everything they could find, and what they found were parasites in extreme abundance. Especially common were trematodes, tiny worms that specialize in castrating their hosts like this unfortunate snail. Now, a single trematode is tiny, microscopic, but collectively they weighed as much as all the fish in the estuaries and three to nine times more than all the birds. And remember the Gordian worm that I showed you, the cricket thing? One Japanese scientist called Takuya Sato found that in one stream, these things drive so many crickets and grasshoppers into the water that the drowned insects make up some 60 percent of the diet of local trout. Manipulation is not an oddity. It is a critical and common part of the world around us, and scientists have now found hundreds of examples of such manipulators, and more excitingly, they're starting to understand exactly how these creatures control their hosts. And this is one of my favorite examples. This is Ampulex compressa, the emerald cockroach wasp, and it is a truth universally acknowledged that an emerald cockroach wasp in possession of some fertilized eggs must be in want of a cockroach. When she finds one, she stabs it with a stinger that is also a sense organ. This discovery came out three weeks ago. She stabs it with a stinger that is a sense organ equipped with small sensory bumps that allow her to feel the distinctive texture of a roach's brain. So like a person blindly rooting about in a bag, she finds the brain, and she injects it with venom into two very specific clusters of neurons. Israeli scientists Frederic Libersat and Ram Gal found that the venom is a very specific chemical weapon. It doesn't kill the roach, nor does it sedate it. The roach could walk away or fly or run if it chose to, but it doesn't choose to, because the venom nixes its motivation to walk, and only that. The wasp basically un-checks the escape-from-danger box in the roach's operating system, allowing her to lead her helpless victim back to her lair by its antennae like a person walking a dog. And once there, she lays an egg on it, egg hatches, devoured alive, bursts out of body, yadda yadda yadda, you know the drill. (Laughter) (Applause) Now I would argue that, once stung, the cockroach isn't a roach anymore. It's more of an extension of the wasp, just like the cricket was an extension of the Gordian worm. These hosts won't get to survive or reproduce. They have as much control over their own fates as my car. Once the parasites get in, the hosts don't get a say. Now humans, of course, are no stranger to manipulation. We take drugs to shift the chemistries of our brains and to change our moods, and what are arguments or advertising or big ideas if not an attempt to influence someone else's mind? But our attempts at doing this are crude and blundering compared to the fine-grained specificity of the parasites. Don Draper only wishes he was as elegant and precise as the emerald cockroach wasp. Now, I think this is part of what makes parasites so sinister and so compelling. We place such a premium on our free will and our independence that the prospect of losing those qualities to forces unseen informs many of our deepest societal fears. Orwellian dystopias and shadowy cabals and mind-controlling supervillains — these are tropes that fill our darkest fiction, but in nature, they happen all the time. Which leads me to an obvious and disquieting question: Are there dark, sinister parasites that are influencing our behavior without us knowing about it, besides the NSA? If there are any — (Laughter) (Applause) I've got a red dot on my forehead now, don't I? (Laughter) If there are any, this is a good candidate for them. This is Toxoplasma gondii, or Toxo, for short, because the terrifying creature always deserves a cute nickname. Toxo infects mammals, a wide variety of mammals, but it can only sexually reproduce in a cat. And scientists like Joanne Webster have shown that if Toxo gets into a rat or a mouse, it turns the rodent into a cat-seeking missile. If the infected rat smells the delightful odor of cat piss, it runs towards the source of the smell rather than the more sensible direction of away. The cat eats the rat. Toxo gets to have sex. It's a classic tale of Eat, Prey, Love. (Laughter) (Applause) You're very charitable, generous people. Hi, Elizabeth, I loved your talk. How does the parasite control its host in this way? We don't really know. We know that Toxo releases an enzyme that makes dopamine, a substance involved in reward and motivation. We know it targets certain parts of a rodent's brain, including those involved in sexual arousal. But how those puzzle pieces fit together is not immediately clear. What is clear is that this thing is a single cell. This has no nervous system. It has no consciousness. It doesn't even have a body. But it's manipulating a mammal? We are mammals. We are more intelligent than a mere rat, to be sure, but our brains have the same basic structure, the same types of cells, the same chemicals running through them, and the same parasites. Estimates vary a lot, but some figures suggest that one in three people around the world have Toxo in their brains. Now typically, this doesn't lead to any overt illness. The parasite holds up in a dormant state for a long period of time. But there's some evidence that those people who are carriers score slightly differently on personality questionnaires than other people, that they have a slightly  higher risk of car accidents, and there's some evidence that people with schizophrenia are more likely to be infected. Now, I think this evidence is still inconclusive, and even among Toxo researchers, opinion is divided as to whether the parasite is truly influencing our behavior. But given the widespread nature of such manipulations, it would be completely implausible for humans to be the only species that weren't similarly affected. And I think that this capacity to constantly subvert our way of thinking about the world makes parasites amazing. They're constantly inviting us to look at the natural world sideways, and to ask if the behaviors we're seeing, whether they're simple and obvious or baffling and puzzling, are not the results of individuals acting through their own accord but because they are being bent to the control of something else. And while that idea may be disquieting, and while parasites' habits may be very grisly, I think that ability to surprise us makes them as wonderful and as charismatic as any panda or butterfly or dolphin. At the end of ""On the Origin of Species,"" Charles Darwin writes about the grandeur of life, and of endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful, and I like to think he could easily have been talking about a tapeworm that makes shrimp sociable or a wasp that takes cockroaches for walks. But perhaps, that's just a parasite talking. Thank you. (Applause)"	"一群牛羚, 一群魚, 和一群飛鳥很多動物都喜歡集結成群這是自然界中最美妙的一件事但是為什麼要成群結隊呢?最常見的說法是為了安全或方便狩獵,又或者交配與繁殖,以上的這些解釋,通常都是正確的,這些都是人類對於動物們在行為上的假設這些動物們可以控制牠們的行為並對自己的身體負責但是通常卻不是這麼一回事 這是豐年蝦 (鹵蟲), 一種鹽水蝦又常被稱之為 ”海猴子“牠非常的小, 通常習慣獨居但是牠也可以集結成像這一大片的紅色群體大到足以用公尺(米)為單位來計算這些豐年蝦之所以聚集,是因為寄生蟲這些蝦子都被 “絛蟲” 給感染了絛蟲 (寄生蟲) 實際上就像是一條既長又活生生的腸子一端是生殖器, 另一端是帶鉤的口腔身為一個自由的撰稿人, 我很同情牠(群眾笑聲)絛蟲吸附在豐年蝦的身上並吸取牠的養分,不止這樣, 絛蟲還做了另外一件事絛蟲閹割了這些豐年蝦絛蟲把這些豐年蝦從本身的透明色轉變成了亮紅色,絛蟲讓這些豐年蝦活得更久,生物學家尼可拉斯.羅得發現寄生的絛蟲讓這些原本獨居的蝦集結在一起為什麼呢? 因為這些絛蟲就像是其他的寄生物種一樣,有著複雜的生活形態擁有很多不同的宿主寄生在這些蝦身上只是這些絛蟲旅程的第一步牠們的最終目的是這個,大紅鶴只有在紅鶴身上, 這些絛蟲才得以繁衍所以為了要達到目的, 絛蟲只能先行操縱蝦子宿主進而形成這些顯眼的紅色蝦群這樣才能更輕易地吸引紅鶴的注意並獵捕吞食,而這就是豐年蝦群集的秘密.豐年蝦並不是依自身意志組成的群居動物而是因為豐年蝦被控制了群體生活看似無法提供安全感實際上卻剛好相反絛蟲入侵了這些豐年蝦的大腦與身體,並把這些豐年蝦當作進入紅鶴體內的一項交通工具 這裡還有另外一個寄生蟲操縱宿主的案例這是一隻具自殺傾向的蟋蟀這隻蟋蟀吞食了鐵線蟲的幼蟲,鐵線蟲又名馬鬃蟲蟲子會在蟋蟀身體裡長到成蟲,但是牠(鐵線蟲)必須在水裡交配,當鐵線蟲需要交配時就會分泌特殊蛋白質腐蝕蟋蟀的大腦,造成蟋蟀行為失常.當蟋蟀靠近水邊的時候,例如這個游泳池邊,牠就會跳入水裡並淹死自己,這時鐵線蟲就會從死屍裡蠕動而出.蟋蟀體內很寬敞. 但是誰知道呢? 絛蟲和鐵線蟲並不孤單牠們是控制大腦的寄生蟲軍團的一份子像是真菌, 病毒, 蠕蟲, 昆蟲等等這些都是擅長攪亂及重寫宿主們本身意願的寄生體當我約20年前第一次從大衛·阿滕伯勒的書 《生命的征途》上學習到這種生物形態再從另一本非常好的書由我朋友卡爾·齊默撰寫的《霸王寄生蟲》上見到之後我就以這些生物為主題不停地寫作至今還有一些生物學的主題令我更加著迷這感覺就像是這些寄生蟲已經竄改了我的大腦因為畢竟, 牠們是如此地引人注目卻又同時令人感到毛骨悚然當你在寫關於寄生蟲的文章時,你的詞彙量張嘴就是 ""活活吞噬""閉口就是 “衝出身體”。(群眾笑聲) 不僅如此我是個作家, 觀眾席裡有些人也是作家作家都知道每個人都喜歡故事寄生蟲讓我們拒絕撰寫那些淺顯易見的故事情節的誘惑牠們生存的世界是劇情的轉折點之一也是無法預測的解釋為什麼? 例如,這隻毛毛蟲當其他昆蟲靠近牠和那些白色蟲繭的時候毛毛蟲是在開始激烈反抗嗎？毛毛蟲貌似在站崗護衛這些繭難道毛毛蟲在保護牠的兄弟姐妹嗎?不是的這隻毛毛蟲是被寄生蜂給攻擊並被體內產卵寄生蜂的蛋將孵化在毛毛蟲的體內,而這隻寄生蜂幼蟲在衝破毛毛蟲的身體之前將毛毛蟲從內部活活吞食你們了解我的意思了嗎?然而, 這隻毛毛蟲還在苟延殘喘有些寄生蜂卻背後控制著這只毛毛蟲保護自己的兄弟姐妹直到牠們在繭內破繭成蟲這隻毛毛蟲只是一隻搖頭晃腦的殭屍保鏢保護著那些殺死自己的生物的後代(寄生蜂的後代) (群眾掌聲) 我們還有很多要說, 而我只有13分鐘 (群眾笑聲) 現在, 你們有些人可能只是拼命地尋求一些慰藉說這些都只是自然界裡的怪事,這些發生的事情都是離群值,這些論點都是可被理解的,因為牠們的天性, 寄生體是很小的牠們花費很多的時間在別的物種身上牠們很容易被小看,但是這不代表牠們不重要幾年前, 有個名叫凱文·拉弗蒂的人帶了一群科學家去了加州的三個河口他們幾乎將能找到的所有東西通通稱重, 解剖, 及記錄了下來,他們發現寄生物種非常豐富多元尤其是吸蟲類最為常見,牠們(吸蟲)是專門閹割宿主的微小蠕蟲好比這隻不幸的蝸牛現在, 單一隻吸蟲是十分微小的,僅能依靠顯微鏡觀測但是全體加起來的重量就和河口裡所有的魚一樣重或者是所有鳥類總重的三到九倍之多還記得我剛才給你們看的鐵線蟲和那隻蟋蟀嗎?有個名叫佐藤拓也的日本科學家在一段河流裡發現這些寄生蟲控制著很多的蟋蟀和蚱蜢跳入水中進而淹死這些昆蟲而這些昆蟲占了當地鱒魚60%的食物來源這些操控並不是奇怪的事這是發生在我們週遭, 很複雜卻又平常的世界的一部份科學家目前發現了數百種這類型的案例,更令人振奮的是, 科學家們開始了解這些寄生體到底是怎麼控制牠們宿主的 這是我最喜歡的案例之一這是安瓿牛鞭也叫扁頭泥蜂還有件眾所皆知的事就是這些扁頭泥蜂會自己的卵產在蟑螂的身上當牠(扁頭泥蜂)找到一隻(蟑螂)時牠(扁頭泥蜂)用牠的刺來叮螫蟑螂而刺同時也是牠的感覺器官這些都是三個禮拜前的新發現牠(扁頭泥蜂)的刺, 也就是牠的感覺器官有著細小的感官突起物這些突起物可以讓牠感受到蟑螂大腦組織的特殊質地就像是一個人盲目的在一個袋子裡尋找,當扁頭泥蜂找到大腦時, 會將毒液注進兩種特定的神經元叢以色列的科學家, 弗雷德里克.李伯賽及拉姆.加爾發現這些毒液是一種特定的化學武器這種毒液並不會殺死蟑螂, 也不會對蟑螂產生鎮靜效果蟑螂還是可以離開或是飛走, 如果蟑螂可以決定的話但是其實蟑螂並不能真正做這個決定,因為這些毒液阻斷了蟑螂的行動意願而也就只是這樣基本上這些蜂類讓蟑螂喪失了逃生本能,讓扁頭泥蜂帶著無助的受害者(蟑螂)藉由觸角回到巢穴內就像是人在遛著狗一樣再重複一次, 牠將蛋產在蟑螂上,蛋孵化, 幼蟲將蟑螂活活吞食, 再從牠身體裡破出,如此之類的, 你們已經知道過程了(群眾笑聲, 掌聲) 現在我認為, 一次叮螫後蟑螂不再是一隻蟑螂而是泥蜂的延伸體,就像是蟋蟀是鐵線蟲的延伸體一樣這些宿主失去了生存及生育的權利牠們對於自身命運的掌控如同我順利掌控我的車一樣.一旦寄生體侵入時,宿主便失去了發言權 當然, 現在的人類對操控並不陌生我們吸毒來改變大腦的化學物質和改變我們的情緒,我們如果沒有打算要影響別人的意志那所謂的論點、廣告又或者是偉大的構想又是什麼但是我們所做的這些嘗試和寄生蟲這種精密又特異的生物比較顯得十分粗糙、亂來好比唐.德雷珀只希望他和扁頭泥蜂一樣這麼的高貴和準確我認為這是寄生體之所以如此邪惡又卻引人注目的部分原因我們相當注重我們的自由意志和我們的自主權當我們失去這些特質後將會有看不見的力量將我們最深的社會恐懼呈現出來奧威爾的 “反烏托邦”和 “影子陰謀”還有控制大腦的超級惡棍們都彷彿是暗黑小說中會出現的比喻,但是卻無時無刻地真實發生在自然界中 這將我帶到一個明顯又令人不安的問題上:是否有一些陰險的寄生蟲在我們毫不知情的情況下影響著我們的日常行為——除了國家安全局(NSA)?如果有的話—(群眾笑聲, 掌聲)我現在額頭上是不是多了個紅點? (被當成了靶)(群眾笑聲) 如果有的話, 這樣會是牠們很好的候選人這是弓型蟲又稱弓漿蟲, 簡稱為弓蟲這麼叫牠是因為令人害怕的物種通常都有可愛的暱稱弓蟲會感染哺乳類動物,各個品種的哺乳動物,但是牠(弓蟲)卻只能在貓的身體裡進行有性繁殖科學家像是喬安妮.韋伯斯特證明了一旦弓蟲進入鼠類當中,將會把這些被感染的鼠類化作尋找貓咪的導彈如果被感染的鼠類聞到了貓咪尿液這樣吸引人的味道牠(鼠類)就會反常的奔往這味道的方向而不是一如往常地逃離當這些貓吃了這些鼠類,弓蟲就得以完成交配這就像是經典的故事模式：吃, 祈禱, 和愛(群眾笑聲, 掌聲) 你們是非常寬容又慷慨的人嗨, 伊麗莎白, 我喜歡你的演說 寄生蟲是用什麼方法控制著牠的宿主們?我們其實不是很知道原因我們知道弓蟲會釋放某種酶製造多巴胺, 一種活化大腦獎賞機制及創造動力的神經傳導物質我們知道牠(弓蟲)的目標是囓齒動物大腦的特定部份,包括喚起性慾的部分但是卻不清楚這些片段的認知能夠怎麼樣被拼在一起但有樣認知是明確的,那就是, 這個不明物是單細胞沒有神經系統也沒有認知能力甚至連個身體都沒有但是牠卻可以操控一隻哺乳動物?我們就是哺乳類動物想當然爾, 我們是比一隻單純的老鼠有智慧的多,但是我們的大腦有著一樣的基本結構,一樣的細胞,一樣的化學物質在裡頭遊走,和一樣的寄生體統計上估計的變異程度十分顯著, 但有些數據顯示全世界每三個人之中就有一個人的大腦裡寄生著弓蟲通常，這並不產生任何明顯的疾病這些寄生體處於長期休眠狀態但有證據顯示那些作為寄生載體的人在性格問卷上的分數呈現和其他人相比會稍加不同他們車禍發生的風險會稍高此外, 也有證據顯示精神分裂症的患者較容易被寄生體感染我認為這部分的證據目前尚未定論即使是弓形蟲的研究人員他們對於弓形蟲是否真正影響人類行為的意見也彼此分歧但由於自然界中充斥著各種操縱模式人類成為生物中唯一不會受到相似模式感染的這個論點是完全難以置信的 我認為這種思維模式不斷地顛覆我們對於整個世界的認知讓寄生體的存在變得更加驚人牠們持續地邀請我們一同看看自然界的橫盤交錯並讓我們反思觀測得來的行為模式無論是淺顯的、莫名其妙的或是令人匪夷所思的都不是個體行為自願下所產生的而是因為他們被迫服從其他生物的控制雖然這個想法可能讓人感到不安寄生體的生活模式可能非常可怕但我認為就是這個能力讓我們感到驚訝讓牠們彷彿熊貓、蝴蝶或海豚這類的生物一樣充滿精采與魅力 在《物種起源》一書的結尾達爾文寫到生命的偉大永無止盡的形式的美麗也是最美好的,我認為他可以很輕鬆的說絛蟲增加了蝦子社交的技巧或是寄生蜂牽著蟑螂一同散步 但又或許, 這只是寄生蟲在演說 謝謝 (群眾掌聲)"
