Talk	en	zh-tw
edi_rama_take_back_your_city_with_paint	"In my previous life, I was an artist. I still paint. I love art. I love the joy that color can give to our lives and to our communities, and I try to bring something of the artist in me in my politics, and I see part of my job today, the reason for being here, not just to campaign for my party, but for politics, and the role it can play for the better in our lives. For 11 years, I was mayor of Tirana, our capital. We faced many challenges. Art was part of the answer, and my name, in the very beginning, was linked with two things: demolition of illegal constructions in order to get public space back, and use of colors in order to revive the hope that had been lost in my city. But this use of colors was not just an artistic act. Rather, it was a form of political action in a context when the city budget I had available after being elected amounted to zero comma something. When we painted the first building, by splashing a radiant orange on the somber gray of a facade, something unimaginable happened. There was a traffic jam and a crowd of people gathered as if it were the location of some spectacular accident, or the sudden sighting of a visiting pop star. The French E.U. official in charge of the funding rushed to block the painting. He screeched that he would block the financing. ""But why?"" I asked him. ""Because the colors you have ordered do not meet European standards,"" he replied. ""Well,"" I told him, ""the surroundings do not meet European standards, even though this is not what we want, but we will choose the colors ourselves, because this is exactly what we want. And if you do not let us continue with our work, I will hold a press conference here, right now, right in this road, and we will tell people that you look to me just like the censors of the socialist realism era."" Then he was kind of troubled, and asked me for a compromise. But I told him no, I'm sorry, compromise in colors is gray, and we have enough gray to last us a lifetime. (Applause) So it's time for change. The rehabilitation of public spaces revived the feeling of belonging to a city that people lost. The pride of people about their own place of living, and there were feelings that had been buried deep for years under the fury of the illegal, barbaric constructions that sprang up in the public space. And when colors came out everywhere, a mood of change started transforming the spirit of people. Big noise raised up: ""What is this? What is happening? What are colors doing to us?"" And we made a poll, the most fascinating poll I've seen in my life. We asked people, ""Do you want this action, and to have buildings painted like that?"" And then the second question was, ""Do you want it to stop or do you want it to continue?"" To the first question, 63 percent of people said yes, we like it. Thirty-seven said no, we don't like it. But to the second question, half of them that didn't like it, they wanted it to continue. (Laughter) So we noticed change. People started to drop less litter in the streets, for example, started to pay taxes, started to feel something they had forgotten, and beauty was acting as a guardsman where municipal police, or the state itself, were missing. One day I remember walking along a street that had just been colored, and where we were in the process of planting trees, when I saw a shopkeeper and his wife putting a glass facade to their shop. They had thrown the old shutter in the garbage collection place. ""Why did you throw away the shutters?"" I asked him. ""Well, because the street is safer now,"" they answered. ""Safer? Why? They have posted more policemen here?"" ""Come on, man! What policemen? You can see it for yourself. There are colors, streetlights, new pavement with no potholes, trees. So it's beautiful; it's safe."" And indeed, it was beauty that was giving people this feeling of being protected. And this was not a misplaced feeling. Crime did fall. The freedom that was won in 1990 brought about a state of anarchy in the city, while the barbarism of the '90s brought about a loss of hope for the city. The paint on the walls did not feed children, nor did it tend the sick or educate the ignorant, but it gave hope and light, and helped to make people see there could be a different way of doing things, a different spirit, a different feel to our lives, and that if we brought the same energy and hope to our politics, we could build a better life for each other and for our country. We removed 123,000 tons of concrete only from the riverbanks. We demolished more than 5,000 illegal buildings all over the city, up to eight stories high, the tallest of them. We planted 55,000 trees and bushes in the streets. We established a green tax, and then everybody accepted it and all businessmen paid it regularly. By means of open competitions, we managed to recruit in our administration many young people, and we thus managed to build a de-politicized public institution where men and women were equally represented. International organizations have invested a lot in Albania during these 20 years, not all of it well spent. When I told the World Bank directors that I wanted them to finance a project to build a model reception hall for citizens precisely in order to fight endemic daily corruption, they did not understand me. But people were waiting in long queues under sun and under rain in order to get a certificate or just a simple answer from two tiny windows of two metal kiosks. They were paying in order to skip the queue, the long queue. The reply to their requests was met by a voice coming from this dark hole, and, on the other hand, a mysterious hand coming out to take their documents while searching through old documents for the bribe. We could change the invisible clerks within the kiosks, every week, but we could not change this corrupt practice. ""I'm convinced,"" I told a German official with the World Bank, ""that it would be impossible for them to be bribed if they worked in Germany, in a German administration, just as I am convinced that if you put German officials from the German administration in those holes, they would be bribed just the same."" (Applause) It's not about genes. It's not about some being with a high conscience and some others having not a conscience. It's about system, it's about organization. It's also about environment and respect. We removed the kiosks. We built the bright new reception hall that made people, Tirana citizens, think they had traveled abroad when they entered to make their requests. We created an online system of control and so speeded up all the processes. We put the citizen first, and not the clerks. The corruption in the state administration of countries like Albania — it's not up to me to say also like Greece — can be fought only by modernization. Reinventing the government by reinventing politics itself is the answer, and not reinventing people based on a ready-made formula that the developed world often tries in vain to impose to people like us. (Applause) Things have come to this point because politicians in general, but especially in our countries, let's face it, think people are stupid. They take it for granted that, come what may, people have to follow them, while politics, more and more, fails to offer answers for their public concerns or the exigencies of the common people. Politics has come to resemble a cynical team game played by politicians, while the public has been pushed aside as if sitting on the seats of a stadium in which passion for politics is gradually making room for blindness and desperation. Seen from those stairs, all politicians today seem the same, and politics has come to resemble a sport that inspires more aggressiveness and pessimism than social cohesion and the desire for civic protaganism. Barack Obama won — (Applause) — because he mobilized people as never before through the use of social networks. He did not know each and every one of them, but with an admirable ingenuity, he managed to transform them into activists by giving them all the possibility to hold in their hands the arguments and the instruments that each would need to campaign in his name by making his own campaign. I tweet. I love it. I love it because it lets me get the message out, but it also lets people get their messages to me. This is politics, not from top down, but from the bottom up, and sideways, and allowing everybody's voice to be heard is exactly what we need. Politics is not just about leaders. It's not just about politicians and laws. It is about how people think, how they view the world around them, how they use their time and their energy. When people say all politicians are the same, ask yourself if Obama was the same as Bush, if François Hollande is the same as Sarkozy. They are not. They are human beings with different views and different visions for the world. When people say nothing can change, just stop and think what the world was like 10, 20, 50, 100 years ago. Our world is defined by the pace of change. We can all change the world. I gave you a very small example of how one thing, the use of color, can make change happen. I want to make more change as Prime Minister of my country, but every single one of you can make change happen if you want to. President Roosevelt, he said, ""Believe you can, and you are halfway there."" Efharisto and kalinihta. (Applause)"	在我人生的前段，我是一個藝術家。我還是有在畫畫。我愛藝術。我很喜歡色彩所能帶給我們人生以及我們社會的種種，並且我試著從我內心的藝術家帶給我的政治生涯些什麼。並且我試著從我內心的藝術家帶給我的政治生涯些什麼，而我見到部份我今日的工作、以及我在這裡的原因，並不只是為我的政黨出來競選，而是為了政治、以及能讓我們生活變得更好的那個角色。而是為了政治、以及能讓我們生活變得更好的那個角色。 我當了11年地拉那的市長，那是我們的首都。我們面臨許多挑戰。藝術是部份的解決之道，而我的名字，在最初的時候，和兩件事相連結：拆除違章建築來取回公眾空間，以及用顏色來找回在我的城市已經消失的希望。以及用顏色來找回在我的城市已經消失的希望。但這些色彩的使用並不只是藝術家的行徑。相反地，這是在我剛當選時、市府預算只有零點多的情況下的一種政治手段。相反地，這是在我剛當選時、市府預算只有零點多的情況下的一種政治手段。相反地，這是在我剛當選時、市府預算只有零點多的情況下的一種政治手段。 當我們漆了第一棟房子，在房子土灰色的一面潑上亮橘色，在房子土灰色的一面潑上亮橘色，不可思議的事情發生了。交通阻塞並且人群聚集，彷彿那裡是什麼壯觀的事件現場，或者突然發現了國際巨星。 負責資金援助的法國歐盟官員趕忙地阻止繼續塗漆。他嘶吼著說他要停止資金援助。 「為什麼呢？」我問他。 「因為你選的顏色和歐洲標準不合，」他回答道。 「那麼，」我說，「四周都不合歐洲標準，即使這不是我們想要的，但我們自己會選出我們要的顏色，因為這正是我們所希望的。而如果你不讓我們繼續這項工作，我會當場開一個記者會，就在現在，就在這條路上，而我們會告訴世人你看待我們的方式正如同社會現實主義時代的審查者。」 接著他似乎碰到釘子了，然後問說有沒有妥協的空間。但我回答：「很抱歉，沒有，妥協在色彩上代表灰色，而我們一生中已經有夠多灰色了。」（掌聲）所以，是時候改變了。 公眾空間的復甦喚起了人們已失去的對這城市的歸屬感。喚起了人們已失去的對這城市的歸屬感、人們對自己居住地的驕傲。而有些感覺已被深埋了好幾年，埋在公眾空間上四處林立又雜亂的違章建築之下。埋在公眾空間上四處林立又雜亂的違章建築之下。而當到處都見得到新的色彩，一種想改變的情緒開始轉換人們的心靈。一陣搔動出現：「這是什麼？怎麼回事？顏色對我們有什麼影響嗎？」 然後我們做了一次民意投票，這次是我一生中見過最迷人的一次投票。我們詢問民眾：「你希望有這個行動並且希望建築物被漆成那樣嗎？」而第二個問題則是：「你希望停止還是希望繼續？」關於第一個問題，63%的人們回答：「是，我們喜歡這行動。」37%的人說：「不，我們不喜歡。」但是關於第二個問題，那些不喜歡這行動的人之中，有半數的人希望繼續這行動。（笑聲） 所以我們注意到一些改變。比如說，人們開始減少在街道上亂丟紙屑，開始願意繳稅，開始感受到那些他們已經遺忘的感覺，而「美」就如同一個守衛，在市區警察，或是國家本身，不在的時候繼續執勤。 我記得有一天我走在一條油漆過的街道上，並且正在種植樹木，當我見到一個雜貨店老闆及他的太太正在裝他們的玻璃店面。他們把舊的百葉窗丟到垃圾的集中處。 「為什麼你們要把百葉窗丟掉？」我問他們。 「嗯，因為街上現在比較安全了，」他們回答道。 「比較安全？為什麼？有更多的警力被派過來嗎？」 「別鬧了，弟兄！哪來的警察？你可以自己看看。有新的顏色、有街燈、路也重新鋪過沒有坑洞、還有新的樹。它變漂亮了；變安全了。」 而確實地，是「美」給人們這種被保護的感覺。而這並不是被誤導出的感覺。犯罪率的確下降了。 1990年的自由光復在這城市帶來了好一段的無政府狀態；而90年代的未開化狀態為這城市帶來了希望的喪失。牆上的彩繪並不會餵飽小孩，也不會照料病患或是教育文盲，但它給了希望和光亮，並且幫助人們看見可以有不同的辦事方法、不同的精神、不同的人生體悟、以及一件事實，那就是當我們為我們的政治帶來同樣的能量與精神，我們會為彼此、以及我們的城市建立更好的生活。我們會為彼此、以及我們的城市建立更好的生活。我們單從河堤，就移除了12.3萬噸的水泥。我們單從河堤，就移除了12.3萬噸的水泥。我們在全城市裡，拆除多過5千棟違章建築，我們在全城市裡，拆除多過5千棟違章建築，上至八層樓高，那是它們之中最高的。我們在街道上種了5.5萬株樹林與灌木叢。我們創立了綠化稅，接著每個人都接納它且所有商人都定期繳稅。用開放競爭的方法，我們計劃為我們行政部門招攬年輕人力，而且我們計劃要蓋一個去政治化的公共機構，在那裡男性和女性可以有同樣的代表權。 許多國際組織在近20年已經投入阿爾巴尼亞許多資金，但並不是全部的資金都被妥善的利用。當我告訴世界銀行的經理們我希望他們資助一個計劃，這計劃要為市民建一個模範的市民接待中心恰恰用來打擊本地特有的每日賄賂，他們並不了解我。但人們排著長長的隊伍，受日曬雨淋，就為了得到一張執照或是從兩個金屬亭子的小小窗口得到答案。就為了得到一張執照或是從兩個金屬亭子的小小窗口得到答案。他們為了免去排隊，那長長的隊伍，而支付賄賂。對於他們的要求，所遇到的回應是來自這黑暗洞口傳出來的聲音，而另外一方面一隻神秘的手伸出來取走他們的文件同時開始找尋過去賄賂的資料。我們可以調換這亭子裡的、看不見的職員，每週都換，但我們沒辦法改變這貪腐的發生。 「我被說服了，」我告訴世界銀行的一個德國官員，「我被說服了，」我告訴世界銀行的一個德國官員，「如果他們在德國，在德國的行政機關工作，他們是不可能收受賄賂的，就如同我被說服如果你把一個德國官員從德國行政機關調到這些洞口，他們一樣會收受賄賂一般。」 （掌聲） 這無關於基因。這也無關於你有道德而其它人沒有道德。這是制度的問題，組織上的問題。這也是環境與尊重上的問題。 我們移除了小亭子。我們建了一個新的接待中心使得人們，那些地拉那的市民們，在踏入接待中心時會感覺他們已經到國外來遞出他們的申請。我們設立了線上控制系統所以加速了各個程序。我們以市民為第一優先，然後才是職員。 這些國家行政機關內的貪腐，在一個像阿爾巴尼亞這樣的國家中（也像希臘，不是我想這麼說）只能用現代化來擊敗。藉由重塑政治本身來重塑政府才是解決之道，而不是基於一些暨有的公式來重塑人民，才是解決之道，而不是基於一些暨有的公式來重塑人民，那些已開發國家常常加諸在我們這樣的人民身上而徒勞無功的公式。那些已開發國家常常加諸在我們這樣的人民身上而徒勞無功的公式。（掌聲） 由於大多的政治人物，尤其是我們國家的，我們必須承認，由於大多的政治人物，尤其是我們國家的，我們必須承認，認為人民是愚笨的，導至事情發展到這個地步。政客們相信這是理所當然的──無論如何，人民都會追隨他們，但同時政治對公眾的顧慮、或是對一般人的迫切需要卻愈來愈無法給出答案。政治已然變成像是一個諷刺的團隊比賽，這比賽由政客來進行，而民眾就彷彿坐在體育館的座位上被晾在一邊，而民眾就彷彿坐在體育館的座位上被晾在一邊，那體育館中對政治的熱情漸漸讓位給盲目和絕望。從臺階上看下去，所有今日的政治人物似乎都一樣，而政治已然變成像是一種激起更多衝動、及悲觀的運動而沒有激起社會凝聚力以及對市民本位的渴望。 巴拉克‧歐巴馬贏了─（掌聲）─因為藉由社群網絡他讓人們前所未見地動了起來。因為藉由社群網絡他讓人們前所未見地動了起來。他並不認識其中的所有人，但憑著他的足智多謀，他把他們變成行動主義者，藉由盡其可能地讓他們手握那些論證與工具，那些是每個人在用歐巴馬之名助選時所需要的。那些是每個人在用歐巴馬之名助選時所需要的。我在Tweet推文了。我喜歡它。我喜歡它因為它讓我的訊息可以傳出去，但它也讓人們的訊息得以傳達到我這。這是政治，不是由上而下，而是由下而上，由側邊發展的，讓每個人的聲音被聽見正是我們所需要的。政治並不只是關於領導者。也不只是關於政治人物和法律。它與人們怎麼想有關，與人們怎麼看待周遭的世界有關，也與人們怎麼消磨他們的時間與精力有關。當人們說政治人物都一樣，試著問問自己歐巴馬和布希是否一樣，歐蘭德和薩科茲是否一樣。（歐蘭德擊敗薩科茲成為2012年法國總統）他們並不相同。他們是擁有不同眼光、對這世界有不同展望的人們。當人們說什麼都不會改變，試著停下來想想10、20、50、100年前的世界是什麼樣子。試著停下來想想10、20、50、100年前的世界是什麼樣子。我們的世界是由改變的腳步來定義。我們可以改變這世界。 我舉了一個很小的例子來說明一件事，那就是色彩的運用，如何來讓各種改變發生。我想要做出更多改變就像我們國家的首相一般，但你們每一個人都可以做出改變，只要你們願意。 羅斯福總統他說：「相信你可以，你就在完成的半路上了。」 謝謝，晚安。（希臘文） （掌聲）
