Talk	en	zh-tw
eduardo_paes_the_4_commandments_of_cities	"It's a great honor to be here. It's a great honor to be here talking about cities, talking about the future of cities. It's great to be here as a mayor. I really do believe that mayors have the political position to really change people's lives. That's the place to be. And it's great to be here as the mayor of Rio. Rio's a beautiful city, a vibrant place, special place. Actually, you're looking at a guy who has the best job in the world. And I really wanted to share with you a very special moment of my life and the history of the city of Rio. (Video) Announcer: And now, ladies and gentlemen, the envelope containing the result. Jacques Rogge: I have the honor to announce that the games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of Rio de Janeiro. (Cheering) EP: Okay, that's very touching, very emotional, but it was not easy to get there. Actually it was a very hard challenge. We had to beat the European monarchy. This is Juan Carlos, king of Spain. We had to beat the powerful Japanese with all of their technology. We had to beat the most powerful man in the world defending his own city. So it was not easy at all. And actually this last guy here said a phrase a few years ago that I think fits perfectly to the situation of Rio winning the Olympic bid. We really showed that, yes, we can. And really, this is the reason I came here tonight. I came here tonight to tell you that things can be done, that you don't have always to be rich or powerful to get things on the way, that cities are a great challenge. It's a difficult task to deal with cities. But with some original ways of getting things done, with some basic commandments, you can really get cities to be a great, great place to live. I want you all to imagine Rio. You probably think about a city full of energy, a vibrant city full of green. And nobody showed that better than Carlos Saldanha in last year's ""Rio."" (Music) (Video) Bird: This is incredible. (Music) EP: Okay, some parts of Rio are pretty much like that, but it's not like that everywhere. We're like every big city in the world. We've got lots of people, pollution, cars, concrete, lots of concrete. These pictures I'm showing here, they are some pictures from Madureira. It's like the heart of the suburb in Rio. And I want to use an example of Rio that we're doing in Madureira, in this region, to see what we should think as our first commandment. So every time you see a concrete jungle like that, what you've got to do is find open spaces. If you don't have open spaces, you've got to go there and open spaces. So go inside these open spaces and make it that people can get inside and use those spaces. This is going to be the third largest park in Rio by June this year. It's going to be a place where people can meet, where you can put nature. The temperature's going to drop two, three degrees centigrade. So the first commandment I want to leave you tonight is, a city of the future has to be environmentally friendly. Every time you think of a city, you've got to think green. You've got to think green and green. So moving to our second commandment that I wanted to show you. Let's think that cities are made of people, lots of people together. cities are packed with people. So how do you move these people around? When you have 3.5 billion people living in cities — by 2050, it's going to be 6 billion people. So every time you think about moving these people around, you think about high-capacity transportation. But there is a problem. High-capacity transportation means spending lots and lots of money. So what I'm going to show here is something that was already presented in TED by the former mayor of Curitiba who created that, a city in Brazil, Jaime Lerner. And it's something that we're doing, again, lots in Rio. It's the BRT, the Bus Rapid Transit. So you get a bus. It's a simple bus that everybody knows. You transform it inside as a train car. You use separate lanes, dedicated lanes. The contractors, they don't like that. You don't have to dig deep down underground. You can build nice stations. This is actually a station that we're doing in Rio. Again, you don't have to dig deep down underground to make a station like that. This station has the same comfort, the same features as a subway station. A kilometer of this costs a tenth of a subway. So spending much less money and doing it much faster, you can really change the way people move. This is a map of Rio. All the lines, the colored lines you see there, it's our high-capacity transportation network. In this present time today, we only carry 18 percent of our population in high-capacity transportation. With the BRTs we're doing, again, the cheapest and fastest way, we're going to move to 63 percent of the population being carried by high-capacity transportation. So remember what I said: You don't always have to be rich or powerful to get things done. You can find original ways to get things done. So the second commandment I want to leave you tonight is, a city of the future has to deal with mobility and integration of its people. Moving to the third commandment. And this is the most controversial one. It has to do with the favelas, the slums — whatever you call it, there are different names all over the world. But the point we want to make here tonight is, favelas are not always a problem. I mean, favelas can sometimes really be a solution, if you deal with them, if you put public policy inside the favelas. Let me just show a map of Rio again. Rio has 6.3 million inhabitants — More than 20 percent, 1.4 million, live in the favelas. All these red parts are favelas. So you see, they are spread all over the city. This is a typical view of a favela in Rio. You see the contrast between the rich and poor. So I want to make two points here tonight about favelas. The first one is, you can change from what I call a [vicious] circle to a virtual circle. But what you've got to do to get that is you've got to go inside the favelas, bring in the basic services — mainly education and health — with high quality. I'm going to give a fast example here. This was an old building in a favela in Rio — [unclear favela name] — that we just transformed into a primary school, with high quality. This is primary assistance in health that we built inside a favela, again, with high quality. We call it a family clinic. So the first point is bring basic services inside the favelas with high quality. The second point I want to make about the favelas is, you've got to open spaces in the favela. Bring infrastructure to the favelas, to the slums, wherever you are. Rio has the aim, by 2020, to have all its favelas completely urbanized. Another example, this was completely packed with houses, and then we built this, what we call, a knowledge square. This is a place with high technology where the kids that live in a poor house next to this place can go inside and have access to all technology. We even built a theater there — 3D movie. And this is the kind of change you can get for that. And by the end of the day you get something better than a TED Prize, which is this great laugh from a kid that lives in the favela. So the third commandment I want to leave here tonight is, a city of the future has to be socially integrated. You cannot deal with a city if it's not socially integrated. But moving to our fourth commandment, I really wouldn't be here tonight. Between November and May, Rio's completely packed. We just had last week Carnivale. It was great. It was lots of fun. We have New Year's Eve. There's like two million people on Copacabana Beach. We have problems. We fight floods, tropical rains at this time of the year. You can imagine how people get happy with me watching these kinds of scenes. We have problems with the tropical rains. Almost every year we have these landslides, which are terrible. But the reason I could come here is because of that. This was something we did with IBM that's a little bit more than a year old. It's what we call the Operations Center of Rio. And I wanted to show that I can govern my city, using technology, from here, from Long Beach, so I got here last night and I know everything. We're going to speak now to the Operations Center. This is Osorio, he's our secretary of urban affairs. So Osorio, good to be there with you. I've already told the people that we have tropical rain this time of year. So how's the weather in Rio now? Osorio: The weather is fine. We have fair weather today. Let me get you our weather satellite radar. You see just a little bit of moisture around the city. Absolutely no problem in the city in terms of weather, today and in the next few days. EP: Okay, how's the traffic? We, at this time of year, get lots of traffic jams. People get mad at the mayor. So how's the traffic tonight? Osario: Well traffic tonight is fine. Let me get you one of our 8,000 buses. A live transmission in downtown Rio for you, Mr. Mayor. You see, the streets are clear. Now it's 11:00 pm in Rio. Nothing of concern in terms of traffic. I'll get to you now the incidents of the day. We had heavy traffic early in the morning and in the rush hour in the afternoon, but nothing of big concern. We are below average in terms of traffic incidents in the city. EP: Okay, so you're showing now some public services. These are the cars. Osorio: Absolutely, Mr. Mayor. Let me get you the fleet of our waste collection trucks. This is live transmission. We have GPS's in all of our trucks. And you can see them working in all parts of the city. Waste collection on time. Public services working well. EP: Okay, Osorio, thank you very much. It was great to have you here. We're going to move so that I can make a conclusion. (Applause) Okay, so no files, this place, no paperwork, no distance, 24/7 working. So the fourth commandment I want to share with you here tonight is, a city of the future has to use technology to be present. I don't need to be there anymore to know and to administrate the city. But everything that I said here tonight, or the commandments, are means, are ways, for us to govern cities — invest in infrastructure, invest in the green, open parks, open spaces, integrate socially, use technology. But at the end of the day, when we talk about cities, we talk about a gathering of people. And we cannot see that as a problem. That is fantastic. If there's 3.5 billion now, it's going to be six billion then it's going to be 10 billion. That is great, that means we're going to have 10 billion minds working together, 10 billion talents together. So a city of the future, I really do believe that it's a city that cares about its citizens, integrates socially its citizens. A city of the future is a city that can never let anyone out of this great party, which are cities. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	非常榮幸能來到這裡也非常榮幸能夠在這裡和大家討論城市以及城市的未來更難得的是作為一個市長來到這里我相信市長有這樣的政治能力去真正改變人民的生活這是市長應該做到的作為里約的市長來到這里很棒里約是一個美麗的富有生機， 特別的地方事實上， 在你們面前的這個男人擁有全世界最棒的工作我也非常想跟大家分享我生命中一個非常特別的時刻甚至在里約城市的歷史上 （影片）主持人：現在， 女士們先生們答案就在這個信封里雅克·羅格： 我很榮幸的宣佈第三十一屆夏季奧利匹克運動會的主辦城市是 里約熱內盧（歡呼） 好吧， 那一刻非常令人感動， 非常激動人心但這一切來得並不容易事實上這是一個艱鉅的挑戰我們必須擊敗歐洲的君主這是 胡安卡洛斯， 西班牙的國王我們必須擊敗強大的日本人， 以及他們強大的科技我們必須擊敗這個世上最有權勢的人以及他的城市所以，這一切來得一點都不容易事實上， 畫面上最後那個人幾年前說過一段話我認為非常符合里約在贏得奧運主辦權過程中的處境那就是： 我們真正讓所有人看到， 我們辦得到 這也是今天我來到這裡的原因我來到這裡是想告訴你夢想是可以去完成的而你並不一定需要非常有金錢或者有權勢去完成它而且城市對我們而言是個偉大的挑戰管理城市總是困難的但是通過利用獨創的解決方案輔以一些基本的原則你真的能夠讓城市變成一個非常適宜居住的地方煩請大家都想像一下里約你或許想到了一個充滿激情的城市一個四季常青生機勃勃的城市沒人比它描述得更好凱羅斯·山達哈的電影 《里約大冒險》 音樂（影片）這簡直難以置信（音樂） 里約的某些區域的確是這樣的但並不是全部和世界上其他大城市一樣我們有龐大的人口污染， 汽車， 建築， 非常非常多的建築這些圖片展示的是瑪多里拉它是里約郊區的心臟我想展示一下里約通過瑪多裡拉的例子來談談我們的第一個城市原則 每當你看到一座混凝土森林你應該做的是找到一片開放的空間如果那裡沒有開放的空間那就創造出一片出來讓我們走進這片開放的區域使之成為允許人們自由進出使用的地方到今年的六月份時這裡將成為里約第三大的公園這將是一個人們可以相互認識的地方也可以將自然植入其中周圍的氣溫也將下降兩三度所以今晚我想和大家分享的第一個城市原則是未來的城市必須是環境友好型的每當你想到一座城市你應該想它是綠色的而且必須是綠色和綠色 下面我們來說一說城市的第二個原則城市是由人組成的非常非常多的人聚集在一起城市被人塞滿但是我們要怎樣去規劃這些人呢？現在有35億人居住在城市中到2050年， 這個數字將達到60億每當我們考慮大量的人口流動我們必然會想起能容量許多人的交通運輸工具但這裡存在着一个矛盾那就是能容量許多人的交通運輸工具意味著巨額的金錢投入 所以我下面將要展示的内容以前曾經在TED演講裡出現過來自庫里奇巴的前市長Jaime Lerner的演講他在巴西的一個城市裡創造出來的同樣也在里約被大量使用的它是BRT， 也就是快速巴士運輸這是個大家都見過的普普通通的巴士將它的內部改造成火車的模樣使用單獨的車道， 專用車道建築承包商可能不喜歡這樣你不必去挖掘地下隧道你可以建造漂亮的車站這是一個真實的車站， 就在里約再講一遍， 你不必去挖掘地下隧道去建造這樣的車站這個車站擁有相同的舒適性， 同樣的特徵和地鐵站一樣這種交通的成本只有地鐵的十分之一通過花少少的錢， 使公共交通變快你能夠改變人們的交通方式 這是一張里約的地圖所有這些線， 也就是有顏色的線代表我們的大容量運輸網到現在為止我們只能為百分之十八的里約人口提供大容量的交通服務通過BRT建設就是剛才提到的那個廉價的， 迅速的交通方式我們將允許百分之六十三的人口使用大容量交通 記住我說的你不必非常有錢或者有權勢去完成一件事情你可以通過獨創的方式完成它所以今晚我想給大家的第二個城市原則是， 一個未來的城市必須解決人口的流動和聚合 下面討論第三個原則這是最富爭議的一個城市必須面對棚戶區， 或者說是貧民窟隨你們怎麼叫，在全世界各地對它有著不同的稱呼我今天想要說的是棚戶區並不總是一個問題換句話說， 棚戶區有些時候可以是一個解決方案只要你正視它只要你使公共政策在棚戶區得到貫徹讓我再次展示一下里約地圖里約擁有630萬居民其中超過百分之二十， 也就是140萬人生活在棚戶區圖上這些紅色部份就是棚戶區如你所見，它遍佈整個城市這是典型的里約棚戶區的樣子你能看到富裕與貧窮的對比 對此， 今天我想講兩點一件第一點是你可以完成從惡性循環到良性循環的轉變但是要做到這點就必須走進棚戶區去提供基本的服務提供高品質基礎教育和醫療這裡我有一個簡短的例子這是一棟坐落於棚戶區的老房子[不明棚戶區的名稱]我們剛剛將其改造成一座小學高品質的小學這是基層衛生站我們將其建造在棚戶區同樣， 它很優質我們稱之為家庭診所所以第一點是將基礎服務帶進棚戶區并保證其質量 關於棚戶區我想說的第二點是在棚戶區創造開放空間將基礎設施建造在棚戶區， 或者貧民窟內里約有個長遠目標， 到2020年時完成所有棚戶區的都市化另一個例子， 這裡曾幾擠滿了房子但我們建造它， 我們稱之為知識廣場這是個充滿高科技的地方住在隔壁貧窮社區的孩子可以走入其中去接觸所有的科技我們甚至建造了一個戲院， 播放3D電影這都是些你所能看到的改變最後我們能得到比TED大獎還要珍貴的東西大大的笑容來自一個住在棚戶區的孩子所以今天我想說的第三個城市原則是未來的城市必須實現社會的融合你將無法管理一個無法融合的社會 下面我們轉到第四點原則說真的， 其實今天我不應該在這在11月到4月間， 里約十分忙碌上周我們剛剛慶祝了狂歡節非常成功而且有趣我們還有新年的慶祝活動約有二百萬人聚集在Copacabana 海灘我們同時還面臨著許多問題必須與洪水與叢林降雨對抗不難猜到人們將會多麼憤怒如果你看到下面的景象叢林降雨的問題幾乎每年都會發生還有這些可怕的山體滑坡 但是今天我來這的原因是它這是我們與IBM合作剛剛滿一年的項目我們稱之為里約管理中心我想向各位展示， 利用科技我可以管理我的城市就在這裡， 也就是長灘市（美國）我昨天來到了這兒， 但我知道里約發生的一切現在我們將和管理中心通話他叫Osorio是我的城市事務秘書Osorio， 很高興你能在這我剛剛告訴聽眾們我們現在正在經歷一年一度的熱帶雨季現在里約的天氣怎麼樣？ Osorio：天氣還不錯， 今天天氣蠻溫和的我們來看看氣象衛星雷達你能看到, 城市四周天氣有些潮濕但在天氣上來講，在今天和未來幾天對城市並無太大影響 好， 那交通狀況怎麼樣?我們在每年這個時期總會出現很多交通擁堵人們總會因此而怪罪于市長。那今晚的交通狀況怎麼樣？ Osario: 今晚的交通還不錯讓我從里約八千多輛公車中選取一輛用市區的實況鏡頭來向你展示交通狀況吧， 市長先生你看，街道是順暢的現在已經是里約的晚上11點交通方面沒什麼需要擔心的現在我想你展示今天所發生的交通事故今天上午的車況壅堵下午的尖峰時段也是但用不著擔心今天發生的事故數量比平常發生的平均數量還要低 好的， 你正在演示我們的公眾服務對吧?我看到了那些車子 Osorio： 沒錯， 市長先生讓我給你看我們的垃圾車隊這是交通實況所有的卡車上都安裝了衛星定位系統而你能看到他們分布在城市中不同的角落裡垃圾都準時被回收公眾服務運作妥當 好的， Osorio， 非常感謝謝謝你參予我們的討論我們必須結束了， 這樣我才能做下結論結束演講(鼓掌)是的， 不需要文件， 在這裡， 也不用大量的書面工作零距離，且一天24小時全年不休所以我想和大家分享的第四點原則是未來的城市必須藉助科技來實現我不再需要親臨現場， 而一樣能管理我的城市 但是今晚我所說的， 或者那些原則們都是理念和方法讓我們去管理城市投資基礎建設， 投資綠化開放的公園，開放的空間社會融合以及科技的運用最終， 當我們談及城市時我們是在談論一個人們的大聚落而不能把它看成是一個問題這真是太棒了現在世界上有35億人口這個數字將在不久后會變成60億然後100億這是多麼偉大啊， 這將意味著有100億個頭腦一起工作100億的天才聚集在一起 所以未來的城市我真切的相信未來城市能好好的照料居住其中的居民使不同的居民相互融合未來的城市不應該讓那裡的任何人離開這場盛宴， 這才是城市 謝謝大家 (鼓掌)
