Talk	en	zh-tw
elizabeth_nyamayaro_an_invitation_to_men_who_want_a_better_world_for_women	"I will always remember the first time I met the girl in the blue uniform. I was eight at the time, living in the village with my grandmother, who was raising me and other children. Famine had hit my country of Zimbabwe, and we just didn't have enough to eat. We were hungry. And that's when the girl in the blue uniform came to my village with the United Nations to feed the children. As she handed me my porridge, I asked her why she was there, and without hesitation, she said, ""As Africans, we must uplift all the people of Africa."" I had absolutely no idea what she meant. (Laughter) But her words stuck with me. Two years later, famine hit my country for the second time. My grandmother had no choice but to send me to the city to live with an aunt I had never met before. So at the age of 10, I found myself in school for the very first time. And there, at the city school, I would experience what it was to be unequal. You see, in the village, we were all equal. But in the eyes and the minds of the other kids, I was not their equal. I couldn't speak English, and I was way behind in terms of reading and writing. But this feeling of inequality would get even more complex. Every school holiday spent back in the village with my grandmother made me consciously aware of the inequalities this incredible opportunity had created within my own family. Suddenly, I had much more than the rest of my village. And in their eyes, I was no longer their equal. I felt guilty. But I thought about the girl in the blue uniform, and I remember thinking, ""That's who I want to be — someone like her, someone who uplifts other people."" This childhood experience led me to the United Nations, and to my current role with UN Women, where we are addressing one of the greatest inequalities that affects more than half of the world's population — women and girls. Today, I want to share with you a simple idea that seeks to uplift all of us together. Eight months ago, under the visionary leadership of Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, head of UN Women, we launched a groundbreaking initiative called HeForShe, inviting men and boys from around the world to stand in solidarity with each other and with women, to create a shared vision for gender equality. This is an invitation for those who believe in equality for women and men, and those who don't yet know that they believe. The initiative is based on a simple idea: that what we share is much more powerful than what divides us. We all feel the same things. We all want the same things, even when those things sometimes remain unspoken. HeForShe is about uplifting all of us, women and men together. It's moving us towards an inflection point for gender equality. Imagine a blank page with one horizontal line splitting it in half. Now imagine that women are represented here, and men are represented here. In our current population, HeForShe is about moving the 3.2 billion men, one man at a time, across that line, so that ultimately, men can stand alongside women and be on the right side of history, making gender equality a reality in the 21st century. However, engaging men in the movement would prove quite controversial. Why invite men? They are the problem. (Laughter) In fact, men don't care, we were told. But something incredible happened when we launched HeForShe. In just three days, more than 100,000 men had signed up and committed to be agents of change for equality. Within that first week, at least one man in every single country in the world stood up to be counted, and within that same week, HeForShe created more than 1.2 billion conversations on social media. And that's when the emails started pouring in, sometimes as many as a thousand a day. We heard from a man out of Zimbabwe, who, after hearing about HeForShe, created a ""husband school."" (Laughter) He literally went around his village, hand-picking all of the men that were abusive to their partners, and committed to turn them into better husbands and fathers. In Pune, India, a youth advocate organized an innovative bicycle rally, mobilizing 700 cyclists to share the HeForShe messages within their own community. In another impact story, a man sent a very personal note of something that had happened in his own community. He wrote, ""Dear Madam, I have lived all of my life next door to a man who continuously beats up his wife. Two weeks ago, I was listening to my radio, and your voice came on, and you spoke about something called the HeForShe, and the need for men to play their role. Within a few hours, I heard the woman cry again next door, but for the first time, I didn't just sit there. I felt compelled to do something, so I went over and I confronted the husband. Madam, it has been two weeks, and the woman has not cried since. Thank you for giving me a voice."" (Applause) Personal impact stories such as these show that we are tapping into something within men, but getting to a world where women and men are equal is not just a matter of bringing men to the cause. We want concrete, systematic, structural change that can equalize the political, economic and social realities for women and men. We are asking men to make concrete actions, calling them to intervene at a personal level, to change their behavior. We are calling upon governments, businesses, universities, to change their policies. We want male leaders to become role models and change agents within their own institutions. Already, a number of prominent men and leaders have stepped up and made some concrete HeForShe commitments. In a few early success stories, a leading French hospitality company, Accor, has committed to eliminate the pay gap for all of its 180,000 employees by 2020. (Applause) The government of Sweden, under its current feminist government, has committed to close both the employment and the pay gap for all of its citizens within the current electoral term. In Japan, the University of Nagoya is building, as part of their HeForShe commitments, what will become one of Japan's leading gender-research centers. Now, eight months later, a movement is building. We are seeing men sign up from every single walk of life, and from every single corner in the world, from the United Nations' own Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to the Secretary-Generals of NATO and the EU Council, from the prime minister of Bhutan to the president of Sierra Leone. In Europe alone, all the male EU Commissioners and the members of Parliament of the Swedish and Iceland governments have signed up to be HeForShe. In fact, one in 20 men in Iceland has joined the movement. The rallying call of our passionate goodwill ambassador, Emma Watson, has garnered more than five billion media impressions, mobilizing hundreds and thousands of students around the world to create more than a hundred HeForShe student associations. Now this is the beginning of the vision that HeForShe has for the world that we want to see. Einstein once said, ""A human being is part of the whole ... but he experiences himself, his thoughts and feelings, as something separate from the rest ... This delusion is a kind of prison for us ... Our task must be to free ourselves from this prison by widening our circle of compassion."" If women and men are part of a greater whole, as Einstein suggests, it is my hope that HeForShe can help free us to realize that it is not our gender that defines us, but ultimately, our shared humanity. HeForShe is tapping into women's and men's dreams, the dreams that we have for ourselves, and the dreams that we have for our families, our children, friends, communities. So that's what it is about. HeForShe is about uplifting all of us together. Thank you. (Applause)"	我永遠不會忘記第一次遇到那個穿著藍色制服的女孩那時我八歲跟祖母住在村她養育我和其他孩子那時津巴布韋爆發饑荒我們總是沒有足夠的食物我們真的很餓那穿著藍色制服的女孩就是在那個時候跟隨聯合國團隊 來到我的村落來填飽孩子們的肚子 當她把一碗粥遞給我時我問她到那裡來的原因她毫不猶豫地說：身為非洲人 我們一定要振興整個非洲。我當時完全不明白她在說什麼 （笑聲） 但我牢牢記住她說的話 兩年後飢荒再次籠罩非洲我祖母別無選擇 唯有送我到城市跟一位從未見面的嬸嬸同住我到了10歲才頭一次上學在那所城市學校我將體驗到不平等的真諦在村子所有人都平等啊！但是在學校裡其他孩子的眼中我就是比他們低賤我不會說英語而且閲讀和寫作的能力遠遠的落後這種被差別待遇的心情將會變得更複雜。每次的學校假期回到村裡 跟祖母渡過的時光都讓我意識到我這個難得的機緣在我家裡所帶來的不平等。突然間 我比其他村民 擁有得更多⋯在他們眼中 我不再和他們一樣平等了 我感到內疚但我想到那位穿著藍色制服的女孩然後回憶起當時的想法：＂我想成為她—跟她一樣為他人謀取福利這童年的經歷把我帶到聯合國也促成我現在與聯合國婦女署合作我們著手於影響超過全球一半人口的極度不平等待遇—也就是女性及小女孩。 今天 我想跟大家分享一個可以為大家帶來平等待遇的簡單觀念八個月前在由聯合國婦女署的領導人Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka的主導下我們展開了突破性的運動叫做 HeForShe （他為她）呼籲世界各地的男性及男孩一起與女性站在同一陣線上共同創造性別平等的願景我們邀請那些相信男女平等的人和那些還不知道自己相信這信念的人 這項運動憑著一個簡單的概念：那就是我們的一致能夠抵抗分化我們的勢力。我們能覺知同樣的感受，我們想得到同樣的東西，雖然這些東西大家都不明講HeForShe的目的在於提升我們每一個人，包括男性和女性。它帶我們一起走向男女平等的轉折點 想像有一個空白的頁面中間有一條橫線把它分成兩半現在想像這邊代表女性，這邊代表男性。以我們現時的人口而言HeForShe 想要把3.2憶的男性，每次一位，移到這條線的另一邊，最終讓男性可以跟女性站在同一陣線上回到歷史的正軌讓性別平等在21世紀成為事實。 但是邀請男士加入運動 會引起爭議為什麼要邀請男士？他們就是問題的來源！ （笑聲） 事實上 我們聽說 男士並不在乎 但是在我們開始HeForShe後讓人難以置信的事情發生了，短短3日內 已經有超過10萬位男士參與和承諾協助推動這項性別平等活動首個星期內 各國至少有一位男性都站了出來，而在同一個星期內，HeForShe 在社群媒體裡已經掀起了1.2憶的對話電郵就在那時蜂湧而至有時多到一天有一上千封我收到一位津巴布韋的男人的消息，他聽說了 HeForShe 的活動後建立了一間＂丈夫學校＂ （笑聲） 他真的走遍整條村落親自挑選所有虐待伴侶的男性立志把他們變成好丈夫 好爸爸在印度浦那城 有位年輕支持者組織了一次創新的單車大會帶動了700位騎自行車人士在自己社區分享HeForShe的資訊 還有一個感人至深的故事有位男士轉來一則很私人的信函那是關於在他的社區裡 發生的一件事他寫道＂敬啟者我這一生中一直住在一個終日虐打他妻子的男人隔壁兩個星期前 我在聽廣播跟著聽到妳的聲音⋯你說到什麼HeForShe的，還有男性扮演自己角色的必要性。不到幾個小時我又聽到隔壁的女人哭嚎但我第一次沒有袖手旁觀我覺得一定要做點事，於是我走過去 跟她丈夫對峙夫人，自從那一次以後 我已有2星期沒有聽那個女人哭嚎多謝你給我勇氣去發言 （鼓掌聲） 像這樣富有影響力的親身經驗告訴我們，我們在啟發男性心靈裡的某些東西但是要做到男女平等不僅僅是要把男性們加入這項運動我們要一個實在、系統化和結構化的改變足以讓在政治，經濟以及社會上的現實我們呼籲男性能有實際的行動從自己開始來改變自己的行為我們呼籲政府、公司以及大學改變他們的政策我們希望男性領導能成為榜樣在他們自己的機構裡作出改變 目前已經有一些傑出的男性和領導站了出來為He for She許下實在的承諾。在早期的一些成功的案例裡一個在法國有領導地位的醫學公司, Accord承諾在2020前消除18萬員工薪金上的差別 （鼓掌） 瑞典政府在女性主義的政府下也承諾在最近的選期會拉近所有人民之間的聘請和工資差異在日本， 名古屋大學為了實踐對HeForShe的承諾正在修建將會在日本成為前瞻性的性別研究中心 現在， 8個月之後HeForShe的影響力正在擴張我們看見很多男性加入，他們來自各行各業來自世界的每一個角落包括從聯合國秘書長潘基文到北大西洋公約秘書長和歐盟委員包括不丹的總理以至於塞拉利昂的總統 僅是在歐洲， 所有歐盟的男性委員們和瑞典以及冰島的國會議員們都加入了He for She的活動。事實上，在冰島，每20個男性就有一個加入了這個活動我們熱情十足的親善大使艾瑪 沃特森的號召獲得了超過50億的媒體點擊量牽動了全球成千上萬的學生來創建超過100個He for She的學生協會 現在，這就是He for She為我們想要看到的未來帶來的喜訊愛因斯坦曾經說過人類是整體的一部分但是他的經驗他的思想和感受有別於其他的個體這種錯覺對我們來說就像監獄我們應該把自己從這監獄裡解放出來方法就是擴大我們對他人的慈悲心 如果男性和女性都是這個整體的一部分那就像愛因斯坦建議的我希望He for She能幫助我們意識到我們的性別並不能定義我們究竟上，只有我們共通的人性才能定義我們He for She正在啟發我們的夢想對自己持有的夢想對我們的家人，孩子朋友，社會抱有的夢想。 這就是這個活動的意義He for She的目的就是為大家謀取福利 謝謝 （掌聲）
