Talk	en	zh-tw
emma_marris_nature_is_everywhere_we_just_need_to_learn_to_see_it	"We are stealing nature from our children. Now, when I say this, I don't mean that we are destroying nature that they will have wanted us to preserve, although that is unfortunately also the case. What I mean here is that we've started to define nature in a way that's so purist and so strict that under the definition we're creating for ourselves, there won't be any nature left for our children when they're adults. But there's a fix for this. So let me explain. Right now, humans use half of the world to live, to grow their crops and their timber, to pasture their animals. If you added up all the human beings, we would weigh 10 times as much as all the wild mammals put together. We cut roads through the forest. We have added little plastic particles to the sand on ocean beaches. We've changed the chemistry of the soil with our artificial fertilizers. And of course, we've changed the chemistry of the air. So when you take your next breath, you'll be breathing in 42 percent more carbon dioxide than if you were breathing in 1750. So all of these changes, and many others, have come to be kind of lumped together under this rubric of the ""Anthropocene."" And this is a term that some geologists are suggesting we should give to our current epoch, given how pervasive human influence has been over it. Now, it's still just a proposed epoch, but I think it's a helpful way to think about the magnitude of human influence on the planet. So where does this put nature? What counts as nature in a world where everything is influenced by humans? So 25 years ago, environmental writer Bill McKibben said that because nature was a thing apart from man and because climate change meant that every centimeter of the Earth was altered by man, then nature was over. In fact, he called his book ""The End of Nature."" I disagree with this. I just disagree with this. I disagree with this definition of nature, because, fundamentally, we are animals. Right? Like, we evolved on this planet in the context of all the other animals with which we share a planet, and all the other plants, and all the other microbes. And so I think that nature is not that which is untouched by humanity, man or woman. I think that nature is anywhere where life thrives, anywhere where there are multiple species together, anywhere that's green and blue and thriving and filled with life and growing. And under that definition, things look a little bit different. Now, I understand that there are certain parts of this nature that speak to us in a special way. Places like Yellowstone, or the Mongolian steppe, or the Great Barrier Reef or the Serengeti. Places that we think of as kind of Edenic representations of a nature before we screwed everything up. And in a way, they are less impacted by our day to day activities. Many of these places have no roads or few roads, so on, like such. But ultimately, even these Edens are deeply influenced by humans. Now, let's just take North America, for example, since that's where we're meeting. So between about 15,000 years ago when people first came here, they started a process of interacting with the nature that led to the extinction of a big slew of large-bodied animals, from the mastodon to the giant ground sloth, saber-toothed cats, all of these cool animals that unfortunately are no longer with us. And when those animals went extinct, you know, the ecosystems didn't stand still. Massive ripple effects changed grasslands into forests, changed the composition of forest from one tree to another. So even in these Edens, even in these perfect-looking places that seem to remind us of a past before humans, we're essentially looking at a humanized landscape. Not just these prehistoric humans, but historical humans, indigenous people all the way up until the moment when the first colonizers showed up. And the case is the same for the other continents as well. Humans have just been involved in nature in a very influential way for a very long time. Now, just recently, someone told me, ""Oh, but there are still wild places."" And I said, ""Where? Where? I want to go."" And he said, ""The Amazon."" And I was like, ""Oh, the Amazon. I was just there. It's awesome. National Geographic sent me to Manú National Park, which is in the Peruvian Amazon, but it's a big chunk of rainforest, uncleared, no roads, protected as a national park, one of the most, in fact, biodiverse parks in the world. And when I got in there with my canoe, what did I find, but people. People have been living there for hundreds and thousands of years. People live there, and they don't just float over the jungle. They have a meaningful relationship with the landscape. They hunt. They grow crops. They domesticate crops. They use the natural resources to build their houses, to thatch their houses. They even make pets out of animals that we consider to be wild animals. These people are there and they're interacting with the environment in a way that's really meaningful and that you can see in the environment. Now, I was with an anthropologist on this trip, and he told me, as we were floating down the river, he said, ""There are no demographic voids in the Amazon."" This statement has really stuck with me, because what it means is that the whole Amazon is like this. There's people everywhere. And many other tropical forests are the same, and not just tropical forests. People have influenced ecosystems in the past, and they continue to influence them in the present, even in places where they're harder to notice. So, if all of the definitions of nature that we might want to use that involve it being untouched by humanity or not having people in it, if all of those actually give us a result where we don't have any nature, then maybe they're the wrong definitions. Maybe we should define it by the presence of multiple species, by the presence of a thriving life. Now, if we do it that way, what do we get? Well, it's this kind of miracle. All of a sudden, there's nature all around us. All of a sudden, we see this Monarch caterpillar munching on this plant, and we realize that there it is, and it's in this empty lot in Chattanooga. And look at this empty lot. I mean, there's, like, probably, a dozen, minimum, plant species growing there, supporting all kinds of insect life, and this is a completely unmanaged space, a completely wild space. This is a kind of wild nature right under our nose, that we don't even notice. And there's an interesting little paradox, too. So this nature, this kind of wild, untended part of our urban, peri-urban, suburban agricultural existence that flies under the radar, it's arguably more wild than a national park, because national parks are very carefully managed in the 21st century. Crater Lake in southern Oregon, which is my closest national park, is a beautiful example of a landscape that seems to be coming out of the past. But they're managing it carefully. One of the issues they have now is white bark pine die-off. White bark pine is a beautiful, charismatic — I'll say it's a charismatic megaflora that grows up at high altitude — and it's got all these problems right now with disease. There's a blister rust that was introduced, bark beetle. So to deal with this, the park service has been planting rust-resistant white bark pine seedlings in the park, even in areas that they are otherwise managing as wilderness. And they're also putting out beetle repellent in key areas as I saw last time I went hiking there. And this kind of thing is really much more common than you would think. National parks are heavily managed. The wildlife is kept to a certain population size and structure. Fires are suppressed. Fires are started. Non-native species are removed. Native species are reintroduced. And in fact, I took a look, and Banff National Park is doing all of the things I just listed: suppressing fire, having fire, radio-collaring wolves, reintroducing bison. It takes a lot of work to make these places look untouched. (Laughter) (Applause) And in a further irony, these places that we love the most are the places that we love a little too hard, sometimes. A lot of us like to go there, and because we're managing them to be stable in the face of a changing planet, they often are becoming more fragile over time. Which means that they're the absolute worst places to take your children on vacation, because you can't do anything there. You can't climb the trees. You can't fish the fish. You can't make a campfire out in the middle of nowhere. You can't take home the pinecones. There are so many rules and restrictions that from a child's point of view, this is, like, the worst nature ever. Because children don't want to hike through a beautiful landscape for five hours and then look at a beautiful view. That's maybe what we want to do as adults, but what kids want to do is hunker down in one spot and just tinker with it, just work with it, just pick it up, build a house, build a fort, do something like that. Additionally, these sort of Edenic places are often distant from where people live. And they're expensive to get to. They're hard to visit. So this means that they're only available to the elites, and that's a real problem. The Nature Conservancy did a survey of young people, and they asked them, how often do you spend time outdoors? And only two out of five spent time outdoors at least once a week. The other three out of five were just staying inside. And when they asked them why, what are the barriers to going outside, the response of 61 percent was, ""There are no natural areas near my home."" And this is crazy. This is just patently false. I mean, 71 percent of people in the US live within a 10-minute walk of a city park. And I'm sure the figures are similar in other countries. And that doesn't even count your back garden, the urban creek, the empty lot. Everybody lives near nature. Every kid lives near nature. We've just somehow forgotten how to see it. We've spent too much time watching David Attenborough documentaries where the nature is really sexy — (Laughter) and we've forgotten how to see the nature that is literally right outside our door, the nature of the street tree. So here's an example: Philadelphia. There's this cool elevated railway that you can see from the ground, that's been abandoned. Now, this may sound like the beginning of the High Line story in Manhattan, and it's very similar, except they haven't developed this into a park yet, although they're working on it. So for now, it's still this little sort of secret wilderness in the heart of Philadelphia, and if you know where the hole is in the chain-link fence, you can scramble up to the top and you can find this completely wild meadow just floating above the city of Philadelphia. Every single one of these plants grew from a seed that planted itself there. This is completely autonomous, self-willed nature. And it's right in the middle of the city. And they've sent people up there to do sort of biosurveys, and there are over 50 plant species up there. And it's not just plants. This is an ecosystem, a functioning ecosystem. It's creating soil. It's sequestering carbon. There's pollination going on. I mean, this is really an ecosystem. So scientists have started calling ecosystems like these ""novel ecosystems,"" because they're often dominated by non-native species, and because they're just super weird. They're just unlike anything we've ever seen before. For so long, we dismissed all these novel ecosystems as trash. We're talking about regrown agricultural fields, timber plantations that are not being managed on a day-to-day basis, second-growth forests generally, the entire East Coast, where after agriculture moved west, the forest sprung up. And of course, pretty much all of Hawaii, where novel ecosystems are the norm, where exotic species totally dominate. This forest here has Queensland maple, it has sword ferns from Southeast Asia. You can make your own novel ecosystem, too. It's really simple. You just stop mowing your lawn. (Laughter) Ilkka Hanski was an ecologist in Finland, and he did this experiment himself. He just stopped mowing his lawn, and after a few years, he had some grad students come, and they did sort of a bio-blitz of his backyard, and they found 375 plant species, including two endangered species. So when you're up there on that future High Line of Philadelphia, surrounded by this wildness, surrounded by this diversity, this abundance, this vibrance, you can look over the side and you can see a local playground for a local school, and that's what it looks like. These children have, that — You know, under my definition, there's a lot of the planet that counts as nature, but this would be one of the few places that wouldn't count as nature. There's nothing there except humans, no other plants, no other animals. And what I really wanted to do was just, like, throw a ladder over the side and get all these kids to come up with me into this cool meadow. In a way, I feel like this is the choice that faces us. If we dismiss these new natures as not acceptable or trashy or no good, we might as well just pave them over. And in a world where everything is changing, we need to be very careful about how we define nature. In order not to steal it from our children, we have to do two things. First, we cannot define nature as that which is untouched. This never made any sense anyway. Nature has not been untouched for thousands of years. And it excludes most of the nature that most people can visit and have a relationship with, including only nature that children cannot touch. Which brings me to the second thing that we have to do, which is that we have to let children touch nature, because that which is untouched is unloved. (Applause) We face some pretty grim environmental challenges on this planet. Climate change is among them. There's others too: habitat loss is my favorite thing to freak out about in the middle of the night. But in order to solve them, we need people — smart, dedicated people — who care about nature. And the only way we're going to raise up a generation of people who care about nature is by letting them touch nature. I have a Fort Theory of Ecology, Fort Theory of Conservation. Every ecologist I know, every conservation biologist I know, every conservation professional I know, built forts when they were kids. If we have a generation that doesn't know how to build a fort, we'll have a generation that doesn't know how to care about nature. And I don't want to be the one to tell this kid, who is on a special program that takes Philadelphia kids from poor neighborhoods and takes them to city parks, I don't want to be the one to tell him that the flower he's holding is a non-native invasive weed that he should throw away as trash. I think I would much rather learn from this boy that no matter where this plant comes from, it is beautiful, and it deserves to be touched and appreciated. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們正從我們的後代手中偷走自然在這裡，我想強調的並不是我們在破壞後代想讓我們保護的自然雖然這也是個不爭的事實我想說的是我們給了大自然一個既純粹又死板的定義在我們為自己創造的定義下我們的後代長大後不會再擁有任何一絲真正的大自然但是有解決之道聽我娓娓道來 現在人類使用著半個地球去生活，去種植農作物和木料去餵飼生畜如果你把所有人類的體重加起來會是野生哺乳動物總重量的十倍還多我們在森林中開闢出道路連我們海灘上的沙粒裏都被混入了塑膠粒泥土的成分也被我們用人工肥料所改變當然，我們也改變了空氣的成份在你吸入一口氣時會吸入比 1750 年的空氣多 42% 的二氧化碳總的來說，所有各式各樣的改變都已經聚集在「人類世」的指標之下了「人類世」正是某些地質學家為倡議我們去接受現在的時代所提出的新名詞因為，人類的影響無處不在現在「人類世」還只是一個假定的時代但我認為，它有助思考我們對地球的影響程度 但是，這和大自然有何關係呢?當一切物質都被人類所操縱時究竟什麽才算真正的自然呢？ 25 年前，環境學作家比爾‧麥吉本曾經說道因為自然應該是與人類無關的一件事但現在氣候變化意味著整個地球正一點點被人類所掌控因而大自然已經消逝事實上，他把他的著作命名為《自然的末日》 我不同意他的觀點，非常不同意我不同意這種對大自然的定義因為說到底，我們也是動物對吧？我們在地球上進化與其他動物共享著同一個地球同樣還有其它植物，其它微生物所以我認為自然並不是不能被人類所使用我認為生命繁盛的地方便是自然任何有多種生物聚集在一起的地方有綠意和水源有生命茁壯成長的地方在這種定義下事情看起來就不太一樣了 我知道，大自然有一些東西正試圖以一種特殊的方式向我們傳達訊息像黃石公園蒙古大草原大堡礁非洲塞倫蓋蒂平原那些未遭我們破壞前我們視作類似伊甸園的地方在某種程度上，這些地方不太受到人類生活影響這些地方道路稀少，甚至沒有道路諸如此類但是說到底這些美好的地方也深受人類影響 我們來舉個例子就以現場的北美洲為例從一萬五千年前人類第一次發現這片土地之時人類就開始了與大自然相互影響的過程致使大量巨型動物滅絕如乳齒象、巨型地獺劍齒虎等這些炫酷的動物已然沒有機會與我們共存當這些動物滅絕之時生態系統便不再平衡大規模的漣漪效應使得草原變成了森林使得森林中的樹木都轉了型所以即使如伊甸園般的地方即使在這些看似完美的地方似乎提醒著我們有人類之前的樣子我們看到的其實還是人類化的景觀不只是這些史前的人類有歷史後的人類、土著居民直到第一批殖民者出現都是同樣的事情也發生在其他陸域人類已被強有力且長時間地捲入自然 最近，有人跟我說 但還是有些原始的地方呀 我說：「哪裡？哪裡？我想去！」 他說：「亞馬遜叢林」 我當時想，喔！亞馬遜叢林啊！我剛去過那地方美極了國家地理雜誌派我到位於秘魯亞馬遜叢林的馬努國家公園但那是一大片未砍伐沒有路的森林以國家公園的名目保護著它是世界上生物多樣化極高的公園但當我划著輕舟到達那裏時卻看見了人人們已經在那裏居住了千百年人們在那裏生活但他們並不只是在叢林中隨處閒逛他們與那裏的地景有著一種意義重大的關係他們打獵，耕種他們歸化作物他們使用自然資源去建造房屋用茅草做屋頂甚至把我們認為的野生動物養作寵物那裏的人以一種意義深遠且可見的方式影響著自然環境 這次旅程我和一名人類學家一起當我們順河而下時他對我說：「亞馬遜雨林沒有人口空隙。」他的這句話著實令我吃了一驚因為他的意思是整個亞馬遜也像這樣到處都是人並且很多熱帶雨林也一樣甚至不僅是熱帶雨林人們過去已經影響了生態系統並且還在繼續甚至在難以發覺的地方 所以，如果我們在定義什麼是自然時排除人類的涉足人類的存在如果依據我們的定義根本無法找尋到任何真正的自然那麼這些定義便可能是錯誤的也許我們應該以有多少生物種類存在生命是否繁榮而定義 如果現在，我們照這個思路前進我們會發現什麼呢奇蹟般地立刻，我們便被大自然所包圍剎那，我們便看到了帝王蝶幼蟲咀嚼著葉子於是，我們發現大自然就在此大自然就在查塔諾加市這片空地中看看這空地我是說，那裏可能會有至少十多種植物生長著維持著各種昆蟲的生命那是一片完全沒有整理的空地一片完全的荒地這就是自然的野性，就在我們眼前我們卻從未察覺 這兒還有個有趣的悖論那麼這種大自然這種出現在我們的城市、郊區、農場荒蕪、無人管理的大自然無人在意的地方可以說是一個比國家公園更野生的環境因為在 21 世紀下國家公園被人類細心的管理著離我最近的俄勒岡州南部的火山口湖國家公園是個美好的例子風景就像從過去延續下來似的但人們細心地管理著那裏但他們現在正面臨著一大問題高山白皮松都枯了高山白皮松美麗而富有魅力我說它是一種富有魅力的大型植物群生長在高海拔地帶現在枯死的原因是染上疾病銹病傳染進來小蠹蟲為了解決這個問題公園管理局開始在公園種植抗銹病的白皮松幼苗他們甚至種在野地我在上次登山時看到他們在一些關鍵地區噴灑殺蟲劑這種事情比你想像的要平常得多國家公園是被嚴格監管的野生動物的族類和數量也受嚴格限制野火要撲滅又要起火控管森林外來物種被移走並且重新引入本土物種事實上，我看了看班芙國家公園也做了這些事情滅火、起火把狼帶上無線追蹤項圈再引入野牛要花很多功夫才能使這些地方看似野生自然 （笑聲） （掌聲） 更諷刺的是我們最喜歡的這些地方有時候是我們愛得太過頭的地方很多人愛去那裏只因我們在不斷變化的地球試圖讓這些地方保持穩定使這些環境變得越來越脆弱 這代表著那裏將變成帶你的孩子去度假最糟糕的地方因為你什麼都不能做你不可以爬樹你不可以釣魚你不可以在渺無人煙處點燃營火你不可以帶松果回家規則和限制數不勝數而從孩子們的角度來看這是最最糟糕的「自然」因為孩子們才不想長途跋涉五小時翻過一道山嶺然後一覽景色那大概是大人想做的事但小孩子只想在隨意一處席地而坐搞東搞西，胡亂拼堆撿個東西，搭棟房子建個堡壘，諸如此類 另外，那些像伊甸園的地方通常也離我們住的地方很遠去那些地方花費很高，也並不容易所以唯有精英才可以去那些地方這是問題的癥結所在美國自然保育協會對年輕人做了一項調查採訪的人問到：「你們有多常到戶外？」只有五分之二的人至少一週一次去戶外其餘的都只待在室內當調查人員問及原因為什麼他們不出去的時候61% 的人回答我家附近沒有自然景觀 這真不可思議！這絕對是大錯特錯的！在美國，71% 的人住所徒步十分鐘內都能到市區公園我相信這樣的比例在其他國家也差不多而且這還不計你房子的後花園都市人造河川、空地每個人都住在自然旁邊每個小孩都住在自然旁邊我們只是不知為何對那些自然之景視而不見我們花太多時間看大衛·艾登堡祿的紀錄片覺得片中的大自然十分誘人 （笑聲） 但是我們卻忘了看看門外的大自然行道樹的自然之景 舉一個例子：費城這條架高的鐵道很酷但已經被棄置了這聽來像曼哈頓城高線公園故事的開端二者十分相似儘管前者還沒發展成公園但是他們正計劃著迄今為止，那裏仍是個位於費城中心地帶秘密的野外之景如果你知道鐵絲網的破洞在哪裏你可以爬上頂部然後找到這片荒草地懸浮在費城之上每一棵植物都由種子長成在這裏自行繁殖這是一個完全自然繁衍的地方而它恰在這城市的中心他們送人上去做一些生物調査那裡有超過五十種植物而且並不只是植物它是一個生態系统一個正在運作的生態系統它創造土壤，行碳封存有生物在授粉這才是一個真正的生態系統 科學家把這樣的地方稱為新型生態系統因為非本土生物佔系统的大部份並且極為奇特它們和我們原來所見的事物都不一樣長久而來，我們把這些新型生態系統當作垃圾一般擱置一旁我們在談論自然復育的耕地人工林場停止管理後重新生長的林地可以說整片東岸的次生林就是這樣在農業西移後，森林重新生長當然，夏威夷也差不多如此新型生態系統很常見完全被外來物種佔領這片森林有昆士蘭楓樹東南亞的劍蕨你也可以創造自己的新型生態系統非常簡單別再修剪你的草坪就行了 （笑聲） 芬蘭生物學家伊爾卡‧漢斯基做了一個實驗他停止修剪自家的草坪幾年後，他帶了幾個研究生在他的後園做生物多樣性速查他們找到了 375 種植物包括兩個瀕危絕種品種 所以當你爬上未來的費城高線公園被這片荒地包圍被這片多樣性、繁茂勃勃生機包圍時你可以從旁向下看你會看到一個學校的遊樂場就是照片上那個樣子那些孩子有......你知道，在我的觀念下這片星球上有很多地方可以算是大自然但這是少數幾個不能被算進去的地方那裡除了人什麼也没有沒有植物，沒有其他動物而我最想做的就是扔一把梯子下去讓所有孩子上來和我享受這片草地我感到這是我們要面對的抉擇如果我們不接受新型自然視它們作垃圾或沒用的東西我們可能會鋪上水泥把它們蓋掉在這個不斷改變的世界我們要小心去定義自然 為了避免從我們的後代手中奪走自然我們要做兩件事第一，我們不可定義自然為未經接觸的事物因為這從來都不合理自然被人類親密地接觸了數千年而且這個定義排除了大部份人能去且和人類建立了關係的自然卻包含了小孩不能接觸的自然因此我們要做的第二件事就是讓我們的孩子接觸大自然因為沒有接觸即沒有愛 （鼓掌） 在這個地球上，此刻我們面臨著蠻嚴苛的環境挑戰氣候變化是其中之一還有其他的：比如失去棲息地我最愛用這個在深夜嚇人但是為了解決這些問題我們需要人，聰明、投入的人真正在意自然的人而唯一能養育下一代關心大自然的方法就是讓他們接觸自然 我有一個生態堡壘理論保育生物堡壘論我認識的生學態家，保育生物學家保育專家小時候都會砌堡壘如果我們有一代人不懂砌堡壘我們將會有一代不懂關心大自然的人 而我不想告訴這名孩子他參加一個帶著費城貧窮的孩子到市區公園的專案我不想告訴他，他手中的花是非本土的入侵種雜草該當垃圾扔掉我想我會向這名男孩學習無論這株植物從何處而來它是美麗的，它值得被接觸和欣賞 謝謝 （鼓掌）
