Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_dishman_health_care_should_be_a_team_sport	"I want to share some personal friends and stories with you that I've actually never talked about in public before to help illustrate the idea and the need and the hope for us to reinvent our health care system around the world. Twenty-four years ago, I had — a sophomore in college, I had a series of fainting spells. No alcohol was involved. And I ended up in student health, and they ran some labwork and came back right away, and said, ""Kidney problems."" And before I knew it, I was involved and thrown into this six months of tests and trials and tribulations with six doctors across two hospitals in this clash of medical titans to figure out which one of them was right about what was wrong with me. And I'm sitting in a waiting room some time later for an ultrasound, and all six of these doctors actually show up in the room at once, and I'm like, ""Uh oh, this is bad news."" And their diagnosis was this: They said, ""You have two rare kidney diseases that are going to actually destroy your kidneys eventually, you have cancer-like cells in your immune system that we need to start treatment right away, and you'll never be eligible for a kidney transplant, and you're not likely to live more than two or three years."" Now, with the gravity of this doomsday diagnosis, it just sucked me in immediately, as if I began preparing myself as a patient to die according to the schedule that they had just given to me, until I met a patient named Verna in a waiting room, who became a dear friend, and she grabbed me one day and took me off to the medical library and did a bunch of research on these diagnoses and these diseases, and said, ""Eric, these people who get this are normally in their '70s and '80s. They don't know anything about you. Wake up. Take control of your health and get on with your life."" And I did. Now, these people making these proclamations to me were not bad people. In fact, these professionals were miracle workers, but they're working in a flawed, expensive system that's set up the wrong way. It's dependent on hospitals and clinics for our every care need. It's dependent on specialists who just look at parts of us. It's dependent on guesswork of diagnoses and drug cocktails, and so something either works or you die. And it's dependent on passive patients who just take it and don't ask any questions. Now the problem with this model is that it's unsustainable globally. It's unaffordable globally. We need to invent what I call a personal health system. So what does this personal health system look like, and what new technologies and roles is it going to entail? Now, I'm going to start by actually sharing with you a new friend of mine, Libby, somebody I've become quite attached to over the last six months. This is Libby, or actually, this is an ultrasound image of Libby. This is the kidney transplant I was never supposed to have. Now, this is an image that we shot a couple of weeks ago for today, and you'll notice, on the edge of this image, there's some dark spots there, which was really concerning to me. So we're going to actually do a live exam to sort of see how Libby's doing. This is not a wardrobe malfunction. I have to take my belt off here. Don't you in the front row worry or anything. (Laughter) I'm going to use a device from a company called Mobisante. This is a portable ultrasound. It can plug into a smartphone. It can plug into a tablet. Mobisante is up in Redmond, Washington, and they kindly trained me to actually do this on myself. They're not approved to do this. Patients are not approved to do this. This is a concept demo, so I want to make that clear. All right, I gotta gel up. Now the people in the front row are very nervous. (Laughter) And I want to actually introduce you to Dr. Batiuk, who's another friend of mine. He's up in Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital in Portland, Oregon. So let me just make sure. Hey, Dr. Batiuk. Can you hear me okay? And actually, can you see Libby? Thomas Batuik: Hi there, Eric. You look busy. How are you? Eric Dishman: I'm good. I'm just taking my clothes off in front of a few hundred people. It's wonderful. So I just wanted to see, is this the image you need to get? And I know you want to look and see if those spots are still there. TB: Okay. Well let's scan around a little bit here, give me a lay of the land. ED: All right.TB: Okay. Turn it a little bit inside, a little bit toward the middle for me. Okay, that's good. How about up a little bit? Okay, freeze that image. That's a good one for me. ED: All right. Now last week, when I did this, you had me measure that spot to the right. Should I do that again? TB: Yeah, let's do that. ED: All right. This is kind of hard to do with one hand on your belly and one hand on measuring, but I've got it, I think, and I'll save that image and send it to you. So tell me a little bit about what this dark spot means. It's not something I was very happy about. TB: Many people after a kidney transplant will develop a little fluid collection around the kidney. Most of the time it doesn't create any kind of mischief, but it does warrant looking at, so I'm happy we've got an opportunity to look at it today, make sure that it's not growing, it's not creating any problems. Based on the other images we have, I'm really happy how it looks today. ED: All right. Well, I guess we'll double check it when I come in. I've got my six month biopsy in a couple of weeks, and I'm going to let you do that in the clinic, because I don't think I can do that one on myself. TB: Good choice.ED: All right, thanks, Dr. Batiuk. All right. So what you're sort of seeing here is an example of disruptive technologies, of mobile, social and analytic technologies. These are the foundations of what's going to make personal health possible. Now there's really three pillars of this personal health I want to talk to you about now, and it's care anywhere, care networking and care customization. And you just saw a little bit of the first two with my interaction with Dr. Batiuk. So let's start with care anywhere. Humans invented the idea of hospitals and clinics in the 1780s. It is time to update our thinking. We have got to untether clinicians and patients from the notion of traveling to a special bricks-and-mortar place for all of our care, because these places are often the wrong tool, and the most expensive tool, for the job. And these are sometimes unsafe places to send our sickest patients, especially in an era of superbugs and hospital-acquired infections. And many countries are going to go brickless from the start because they're never going to be able to afford the mega-medicalplexes that a lot of the rest of the world has built. Now I personally learned that hospitals can be a very dangerous place at a young age. This was me in third grade. I broke my elbow very seriously, had to have surgery, worried that they were going to actually lose the arm. Recovering from the surgery in the hospital, I get bedsores. Those bedsores become infected, and they give me an antibiotic which I end up being allergic to, and now my whole body breaks out, and now all of those become infected. The longer I stayed in the hospital, the sicker I became, and the more expensive it became, and this happens to millions of people around the world every year. The future of personal health that I'm talking about says care must occur at home as the default model, not in a hospital or clinic. You have to earn your way into those places by being sick enough to use that tool for the job. Now the smartphones that we're already carrying can clearly have diagnostic devices like ultrasounds plugged into them, and a whole array of others, today, and as sensing is built into these, we'll be able to do vital signs monitor and behavioral monitoring like we've never had before. Many of us will have implantables that will actually look real-time at what's going on with our blood chemistry and in our proteins right now. Now the software is also getting smarter, right? Think about a coach, an agent online, that's going to help me do safe self-care. That same interaction that we just did with the ultrasound will likely have real-time image processing, and the device will say, ""Up, down, left, right, ah, Eric, that's the perfect spot to send that image off to your doctor."" Now, if we've got all these networked devices that are helping us to do care anywhere, it stands to reason that we also need a team to be able to interact with all of that stuff, and that leads to the second pillar I want to talk about, care networking. We have got to go beyond this paradigm of isolated specialists doing parts care to multidisciplinary teams doing person care. Uncoordinated care today is expensive at best, and it is deadly at worst. Eighty percent of medical errors are actually caused by communication and coordination problems amongst medical team members. I had my own heart scare years ago in graduate school, when we're under treatment for the kidney, and suddenly, they're like, ""Oh, we think you have a heart problem."" And I have these palpitations that are showing up. They put me through five weeks of tests — very expensive, very scary — before the nurse finally notices the piece of the paper, my meds list that I've been carrying to every single appointment, and says, ""Oh my gosh."" Three different specialists had prescribed three different versions of the same drug to me. I did not have a heart problem. I had an overdose problem. I had a care coordination problem. And this happens to millions of people every year. I want to use technology that we're all working on and making happen to make health care a coordinated team sport. Now this is the most frightening thing to me. Out of all the care I've had in hospitals and clinics around the world, the first time I've ever had a true team-based care experience was at Legacy Good Sam these last six months for me to go get this. And this is a picture of my graduation team from Legacy. There's a couple of the folks here. You'll recognize Dr. Batiuk. We just talked to him. Here's Jenny, one of the nurses, Allison, who helped manage the transplant list, and a dozen other people who aren't pictured, a pharmacist, a psychologist, a nutritionist, even a financial counselor, Lisa, who helped us deal with all the insurance hassles. I wept the day I graduated. I should have been happy, because I was so well that I could go back to my normal doctors, but I wept because I was so actually connected to this team. And here's the most important part. The other people in this picture are me and my wife, Ashley. Legacy trained us on how to do care for me at home so that they could offload the hospitals and clinics. That's the only way that the model works. My team is actually working in China on one of these self-care models for a project we called Age-Friendly Cities. We're trying to help build a social network that can help track and train the care of seniors caring for themselves as well as the care provided by their family members or volunteer community health workers, as well as have an exchange network online, where, for example, I can donate three hours of care a day to your mom, if somebody else can help me with transportation to meals, and we exchange all of that online. The most important point I want to make to you about this is the sacred and somewhat over-romanticized doctor-patient one-on-one is a relic of the past. The future of health care is smart teams, and you'd better be on that team for yourself. Now, the last thing that I want to talk to you about is care customization, because if you've got care anywhere and you've got care networking, those are going to go a long way towards improving our health care system, but there's still too much guesswork. Randomized clinical trials were actually invented in 1948 to help invent the drugs that cured tuberculosis, and those are important things, don't get me wrong. These population studies that we've done have created tons of miracle drugs that have saved millions of lives, but the problem is that health care is treating us as averages, not unique individuals, because at the end of the day, the patient is not the same thing as the population who are studied. That's what's leading to the guesswork. The technologies that are coming, high-performance computing, analytics, big data that everyone's talking about, will allow us to build predictive models for each of us as individual patients. And the magic here is, experiment on my avatar in software, not my body in suffering. Now, I've had two examples I want to quickly share with you of this kind of care customization on my own journey. The first was quite simple. I finally realized some years ago that all my medical teams were optimizing my treatment for longevity. It's like a badge of honor to see how long they can get the patient to live. I was optimizing my life for quality of life, and quality of life for me means time in snow. So on my chart, I forced them to put, ""Patient goal: low doses of drugs over longer periods of time, side effects friendly to skiing."" And I think that's why I achieved longevity. I think that time-in-snow therapy was as important as the pharmaceuticals that I had. Now the second example of customization — and by the way, you can't customize care if you don't know your own goals, so health care can't know those until you know your own health care goals. But the second example I want to give you is, I happened to be an early guinea pig, and I got very lucky to have my whole genome sequenced. Now it took about two weeks of processing on Intel's highest-end servers to make this happen, and another six months of human and computing labor to make sense of all of that data. And at the end of all of that, they said, ""Yes, those diagnoses of that clash of medical titans all of those years ago were wrong, and we have a better path forward."" The future that Intel's working on now is to figure out how to make that computing for personalized medicine go from months and weeks to even hours, and make this kind of tool available, not just in the mainframes of tier-one research hospitals around the world, but in the mainstream — every patient, every clinic with access to whole genome sequencing. And I tell you, this kind of care customization for everything from your goals to your genetics will be the most game-changing transformation that we witness in health care during our lifetime. So these three pillars of personal health, care anywhere, care networking, care customization, are happening in pieces now, but this vision will completely fail if we don't step up as caregivers and as patients to take on new roles. It's what my friend Verna said: Wake up and take control of your health. Because at the end of the day these technologies are simply about people caring for other people and ourselves in some powerful new ways. And it's in that spirit that I want to introduce you to one last friend, very quickly. Tracey Gamley stepped up to give me the impossible kidney that I was never supposed to have. (Applause) So Tracey, just tell us a little bit quickly about what the donor experience was like with you. Tracey Gamley: For me, it was really easy. I only had one night in the hospital. The surgery was done laparoscopically, so I have just five very small scars on my abdomen, and I had four weeks away from work and went back to doing everything I'd done before without any changes. ED: Well, I probably will never get a chance to say this to you in such a large audience ever again. So ""thank you"" feel likes a really trite word, but thank you from the bottom of my heart for saving my life. (Applause) This TED stage and all of the TED stages are often about celebrating innovation and celebrating new technologies, and I've done that here today, and I've seen amazing things coming from TED speakers, I mean, my gosh, artificial kidneys, even printable kidneys, that are coming. But until such time that these amazing technologies are available to all of us, and even when they are, it's up to us to care for, and even save, one another. I hope you will go out and make personal health happen for yourselves and for everyone. Thanks so much. (Applause)"	我要分享一些我的朋友和故事我從來沒有公開談過我的目的是要說明一種想法、一種需求、一種希望以重塑全球的醫療照護系統24年前，我還是個大二學生我昏迷了好幾次，不是因為酒醉我被送到學生健康中心做了一些檢驗後，立刻得知是腎臟問題我還沒搞清楚狀況，就開始了六個月的檢驗、考驗和折磨由2家醫院的6位醫生診治這些醫界權威互相爭執想釐清誰才正確診斷出我的病情做完超音波後，我坐在候診室6位醫生同時出現我想：「糟了，一定是壞消息！」醫生診斷說：「你得了兩種罕見的腎臟疾病，最終會讓你的腎臟壞死，你的免疫系統中有類似癌症細胞，必須立即治療。你永遠不可能符合換腎資格，最多還能活2到3年。」 這項診斷好像世界末日讓我立刻認定自己就是病人將在醫生宣判的日期死亡我在候診室遇到另一位病人薇娜(Verna)她成了我的好友，有天她拉著我帶我到醫學圖書館仔細研究我的疾病和診斷然後說：「得到這些疾病的人，通常都是七、八十歲，他們根本不了解你，醒醒吧，掌握自己的健康、好好的生活！」我真的這麼做了 宣告我病症的人都不是壞人他們都是仁心仁術的專科醫師但他們在有缺陷、昂貴、錯誤的系統下工作所有的照護都依賴醫院與診所依賴只看我們部分身體的專科醫師依賴基於猜測的診斷以及亂槍打鳥的用藥他不成功，你就成仁這系統也依賴消極的病人默默承受、不問問題 以上這種模式是有問題的以全球來說，是無法永續的也是無法負擔的我們要發展「個人化健康系統」個人化健康系統是什麼？有哪些新技術、新角色？ 我現在要與各位分享我的新朋友「利比」(Libby)過去半年我們關係密切這就是利比也可說是利比的超音波影像是我本來永遠等不到的移植腎臟這是幾週前照的影像請注意角落那裡有些陰影，我很擔心我要在現場進行檢驗看看利比的狀況好不好不是衣服有問題，我要脫掉皮帶前排的請不要擔心(笑聲)我要開始使用行動檢測公司(Mobisante) 所開發的儀器叫做行動超音波可連接手機或平板電腦行動檢測公司在華盛頓州雷德蒙市他們好心訓練我自助使用他們沒有獲准這麼做病人也沒獲准這麼用先講清楚，這只是概念的展示塗上凝膠現在前排觀眾很緊張了(笑聲) 我要介紹貝謝克醫師(Dr. Thomas Batiuk)他是我的另一位朋友在奧勒岡州波特蘭市的撒馬利亞慈善醫院 (Legacy Good Samaritan)先確認一下，貝醫生，聽得到嗎？還有，你看得到「利比」嗎？ 貝醫師：嗨！艾瑞克，你好(即演講者 Eric Dishman)你看起來好忙啊！你好！ 艾瑞克：我很好，我剛脫了衣服有幾百位觀眾在看，感覺真好！我想知道這是不是你要看的影像？請幫我檢查那些陰影還在不在？ 貝醫師：請往周圍掃描一下我先看一下整體狀況 艾瑞克：好的貝醫師：往裡面一點往中間一點點好，很好，往上一點點停，這個影像正是我要的 艾瑞克：上週停住時你要我量陰影的大小現在要做嗎? 貝醫師：沒錯，量一下 艾瑞克：這有點難一手在腹部，另一手還要操作我想我作到了我把影像存檔，再寄給你請告訴我那個陰影是什麼我不太安心 貝醫師：很多人在腎臟移植後腎臟周圍會積水大部分不會造成傷害但是需要注意很高興今天有機會檢查確認沒有變大、不會造成問題與先前影像比較我很滿意今天的狀況 艾瑞克：我去看診時請再檢查一次再幾週就要做6個月的切片檢查我會請你幫忙因為我沒辦法自己作切片 貝醫師：沒錯艾瑞克：謝謝你，貝醫師好的，各位剛才看到的是革命性的創新技術包括行動裝置、社群、分析技術是未來個人化健康照護的基礎 有三大支柱支撐著…接下來要談的個人化健康照護就是照護行動化、網路化、客製化剛才只匆匆一瞥前兩項看到我和貝醫生的互動 現在從第一點開始，照護行動化建立醫院和診所的構想，起源自1780年，現在該重新思考了我們該將醫生和病人都要走到一棟專用建築物進行醫療的做法中釋放出來對醫療目的而言，這往往是錯誤的而且昂貴的對重病患者有時並不安全尤其是這個超級細菌、及院內感染橫行的時代許多國家想直接跳過實體醫院因為太貴了，永遠負擔不起…已開發國家的這種大型醫學中心我個人的經驗是，醫院對小孩來說，是個很危險的地方這是小學三年級的我手肘嚴重骨折，需要動手術我很怕會失去整隻手臂手術後的住院期間，我得了褥瘡褥瘡受到感染抗生素治療造成嚴重過敏最後全身爆發…全面性的感染住院越久，我病得越重醫藥費也越高全球每年數百萬人都是相同情形我講的未來個人化健康照護是以居家照護為優先不是目前的醫院或診所你想進醫院或診所要病到有必要的程度才行現在我們用的智慧型手機已可外接各種診斷裝置，如超音波及其他許多裝置智慧型手機還內建多種感測器可進行生命跡像監測及過去沒聽過的行為監測未來我們之中許多人可能會植入即時監控血液中化學物質及蛋白質的裝置軟體越來越聰明，對吧？就像是線上的教練或經紀人可幫我們安全的自我照顧像我剛才展示超音波的互動未來可能會有即時影像處理機器會指揮我上下左右說：「就是這個位置，影像存檔，傳給你的醫生吧！」 如果我們有了這些網路裝置照護行動化就可以達成當然，我們需要一個團隊來進行相關互動這就需要我說的第二根支柱照護網路化我們要突破傳統模式也就是獨立專科醫師分別進行部分照護進而由多科別團隊進行個人化照護今日缺乏協調的照護，不僅昂貴還可能致命80%的醫療錯誤是因為溝通協調問題存在醫療團隊成員間在念研究所時我有心驚膽顫的經驗那時在治療腎臟突然有人說：「你得了心臟病！」接著我出現了心悸進行了5個星期檢驗又貴又可怕－最後有位護士注意到一張紙，我的藥單我每次約診都帶的單子他說：「天哪！」有三位專科醫師開了相同的處方藥我心臟沒病，是用藥過量是照護缺乏協調的問題這每年發生在數百萬人身上我想用現有的科技使健康照護成為合作的團隊運動才能解決這件讓我最害怕的事我曾在世界各地的醫院及診所診治我第一次感受到真正的醫療團隊照護就是過去半年在撒馬利亞慈善醫院(Legacy Good Samaritan)讓我有此感受這是我在醫院的畢業團隊照片有好幾位，這位是貝醫師剛和他通電話這是珍妮，其中一位護士這是艾利森，他幫忙處理移植清單還有十幾位不在相片中有藥師、心理醫師、營養師甚至還有財務顧問，麗莎她幫我們處理所有保險事務我畢業那天哭了我應該要高興，因為病已好到可以回去看一般的醫師了我哭是因為和團隊感情深厚 這才是最重要的部份照片上還有我，以及我太太艾希莉醫院訓練我們在家自行照護醫院和診所就不必那麼忙碌這是這種模式成功的唯一方式我的團隊其實在中國工作從事自助照護模式稱為「年齡友善城市」計畫我們嘗試建立社群網路以幫助追蹤並且訓練年長者能自已照顧自己以及由家人提供照護還有社區的健康照護志工另外還有線上照護交換網站例如我每天照顧你媽三小時而有人可以幫我送餐點大家在網路上交換工作我要強調的重點是可怕而又太理想化的一對一醫病關係已成為過去式健康照護的未來是智慧團隊而你自己最好就是團隊的一員 我要談的最後一件事是照護客製化因為照護行動化與照護網路化要改善醫療系統，並非一蹴可幾但現有醫療存在太多猜測隨機臨床實驗是在1948年發明的用來發明治療結核病的藥那是很重要的事，別誤會這些全民研究幫忙創造了許多新藥，救治了數百萬的生命問題是，這種醫療照護把我們當成平均數而不是獨立的個人終究來說病人和研究的平均數並不相同所以必須要用猜的新科技已經來臨電腦的高速運算、分析大家都在講的大資料運算(big data)可針對每個人建立預測模型把每個人當作個別病人更神奇的是可拿我的電腦分身實驗不必讓我身體受苦 我有兩個案例很快和各位分享關於我親身經歷的照護客製化第一個很簡單，我幾年前才瞭解我的整個醫療團隊都在為延長我的壽命而精進治療能讓病人活得更久他們就像得到榮譽徽章一樣那時我想改善生活品質對我來說，生活品質就是在雪地的時光我強迫他們在病歷上寫：「病人的目標為，長時間低劑量的用藥，副作用不影響滑雪。」我想這就是我活得較久的原因「雪地的時光」這項治療很重要跟其他藥品一樣重要第二個客製化案例是…順道一提如果你沒有目標，是無法客製化的你要先有目標，醫療小組才會知道但我要說的第二個案例我剛好是個早期的白老鼠我很幸運擁有完整的基因體定序目前大約要花兩星期用英特爾最高速的伺服器定序再加上6個月的人工與電腦運算以解讀所有資料最後他們說：「成功了，醫界權威爭執多年的診斷全都錯了，現在有更好的方向可以邁進。」英特爾正努力，希望能找出方法讓個人化醫療的運算由幾個月縮短到幾週，甚至幾小時讓更多人可使用不僅限於全球一流的教學醫院而能成為主流－讓每個病人、每間診所都可使用這種完整的基因體定序這種照護客製化從個人目標到基因體定序將是改變遊戲規則的大革命我們有生之年就可見證到 健康照護的三大支柱照護行動化、網路化、客製化正逐步發生但這個願景可能完全失敗，如果醫護人員和患者不願扮演新的角色我朋友凡恩說得好：醒醒吧！你要主導自己的健康，有了這些科技最後還是「人」在照顧別人與自己只是運用更好更新的方法 這正是接下來我要很快介紹的最後一位朋友的精神翠西甘姆利(Tracey Gamley)挺身而出，她捐出了我本來不可能得到的腎臟 (掌聲) 翠西，請很快分享一下作為捐贈者的經驗 翠西：對我來說，真的很簡單我只在醫院住了一夜手術是以腹腔鏡進行的我的腹部只留下5個很小的疤痕我有4個星期不能工作之後就完全回復到我原來的生活沒有任何改變 艾瑞克：我可能再也沒有機會在這麼多人面前對妳說…「謝謝你！」感覺上好像老掉牙了但我打從心底感謝妳救了我一命 (掌聲) 在 TED 講台上大多都是讚揚創新發明以及新科技這正是我剛才所做的我也目睹了其他演講者的驚人成就天啊！人工腎臟、列印腎臟可能都不再是夢想但在那些驚人科技實現還有普及之前，甚至於之後都要靠我們彼此關愛，互相救助希望各位今後能夠讓個人化健康照護實現為了你，也為了每個人非常感謝 (掌聲)
