Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_haseltine_what_will_be_the_next_big_scientific_breakthrough	"Tonight, I'm going to share with you my passion for science. I'm not talking about science that takes baby steps. I'm talking about science that takes enormous leaps. I'm talking Darwin, I'm talking Einstein, I'm talking revolutionary science that turns the world on its head. In a moment, I'm going to talk about two ideas that might do this. I say ""might"" because, with revolutionary ideas, most are flat wrong, and even those that are right seldom have the impact that we want them to have. To explain why I picked two ideas in particular, I'm going to start with a mystery. 1847, Vienna, Austria. Ignaz Semmelweis was a somber, compulsively thorough doctor who ran two maternity clinics. They were identical except for one thing. Women were dying of high fevers soon after giving birth three times more often at one of the clinics than at the other. Trying to figure out what the difference was that caused this, Semmelweis looked at everything he could. Sanitation? No. Medical procedures? No. Air flow? No. The puzzle went unsolved until he happened to autopsy a doctor who died of an infected scalpel cut. The doctor's symptoms were identical to those of the mothers who were dying. How was that possible? How could a male doctor get the same thing as new mothers? Semmelweis reconstructed everything the doctor had done right before he got sick, and he discovered that he'd been autopsying a corpse. Had something gotten in his wound that killed him? With growing excitement, Semmelweis looked for any connection he could between dead bodies in the morgue and dead mothers in his delivery room, and he found it. It turned out that at the hospital with the high death rate, but not the others, doctors delivered babies immediately after autopsying corpses in the morgue. Aha! Corpses were contaminating the doctors' hands and killing his mothers. So he ordered the doctors to sterilize their hands, and the deaths stopped. Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis had discovered infectious disease. But the doctors of the day thought he was crazy, because they knew, and had for hundreds of years, that odorous vapors called miasmas caused disease, not these hypothetical particles that you couldn't see. It took 20 years for Frenchman Louis Pasteur to prove that Semmelweis was right. Pasteur was an agricultural chemist who tried to figure out why milk and beer spoiled so often. He found that bacteria were the culprits. He also found that bacteria could kill people in exactly the same way that Semmelweis's patients were dying. We now look at what I want to talk about tonight, in two ideas. We saw it with Semmelweis, that he was a revolutionary. He did it for two reasons. One, he opened our eyes to a completely new world. We'd known since the 1680s about bacteria. We just didn't know that bacteria killed people. And he also demolished fond ideas that people kept close to their heart. Miasmas didn't kill people. Bacteria killed people. So this brings me to the two ideas I want to talk about tonight. One has opened our eyes to a completely new universe, and the other attacks long-held beliefs. Let's get started with Dr. Eric Betzig. He's a physicist who has opened our eyes to an entirely new world by violating the laws of physics. Betzig is a true rebel. He quit a job at prestigious Bell Laboratory inventing new microscopes for biology because he thought scientists were taking his brilliant inventions and doing lousy work with them. So he became a househusband, but he never lost his passion for figuring out how to get microscopes to see finer and finer details than had ever been seen before or ever could be seen. This is crucial if we're ever going to understand how cells work, and how cancer works, and how something 150th the size of a head of a pin can do all these amazing things, like make proteins and move charges around and all of those things. There's just one problem. There's this thing called the law of physics, and part of the law of physics is the thing called the diffraction limit. The diffraction limit is kind of like when you go to a doctor's office, you can only see so far down, no matter how good glasses you have. This was a so-called impossible problem. But one of Betzig's friends figured out how to take a tiny molecule that was smaller than the best microscope could see and get it to light up and fluoresce. ""Aha!"" Betzig said. ""I think maybe the laws of physics are not so unbreakable after all."" So he lashed together a microscope in his friend's living room. He had no laboratory. This revolutionary instrument got different protein molecules to light up in different colors, and with a computer, he was able to turn very, very fuzzy blurs into very sharp dots and produce images of unprecedented and startling clarity. For this work, last year, Eric Betzig won the Nobel Prize. Why? Because now we can see with unprecedented detail things that we never had seen before, and now doctors can get a better handle on things like cancer. But do you think Betzig was satisfied there? No. He wanted movies. The problem was that even the genius microscopes that he invented were just too slow. So what did he do? He came up with a 200-year-old idea called moiré patterns. So the way that works is if you take two very, very fine patterns and you move them across each other, you will see a gross pattern that a microscope can see that otherwise you would not be able to see. So he applied this technique to taking a really blurry image of a cell and moving lots of structured light patterns across it until this cell became crystal clear. And here is the result: a mysterious new world, full of strange things zipping around doing things that we don't know what they're doing. But when we figure it out, we'll have a better handle on life itself. For example, those green globs that you see? Those things are called clathrins. They're molecules that protect other molecules as they move through a cell. Unfortunately, viruses sometimes hijack those to infect cells. Also, you see those little squiggly wormlike things moving around? Those are actin molecules. Unfortunately, viruses also climb down those things to get into the cell nucleus to replicate themselves and make you sick. Now that we can look at movies of what's actually going on deep inside a cell, we have a much better chance of curing viral diseases like AIDS. So when you look at a movie like this, it's very clear that Betzig has opened our eyes to a completely new world. But he hasn't shattered any cherished beliefs. That leads us to Dr. Aubrey de Grey at Cambridge. De Grey definitely has scientists squirming with an interesting idea: we can be immortal. We can beat aging. Now, most scientists think he's a crackpot. Any Biology 101 student knows that aging is an inevitable consequence of living. For example, when we eat, we take in food and we metabolize it, and that throws off what we call free radicals. You might have heard of those. Also known as oxygen ions, those bind to our DNA, cause it to mutate, and cause us to get old and lose our hair. (Laughter) It's just like, no, it's exactly like oxygen binding to iron and making it rust. So you age because you rust out. (Laughter) Oh, and scientists also know there is something called immortality: in cancer cells. So if you stop aging, all of you are going to turn into giant walking malignant tumors. These are cherished beliefs, but could de Grey be on to something? I think he deserves a closer look. First of all, I have a really hard time seeing him as a crackpot. Yeah, he started off life as a computer scientist, not a biologist, but he earned a PhD in biology from Cambridge, and he has published some very significant work on mitochondrial DNA and a bunch of other stuff. Secondly, he started an antiaging foundation that has identified seven different causes of aging, to me, that seem very plausible, and he is hot in pursuit of fixes for every single one of them. For example, one of the reasons we age is that our mitochondrial DNA mutates, and we get kind of old and our cells lose energy. He believes, and he's made a convincing case, that using viruses we can do gene therapy, fix that DNA and rejuvenate our cells. One more thing. We have an existent proof that extreme longevity is possible. Bristlecone pine trees live 5,000 years, and some lobsters don't age at all. Now, this doesn't mean that de Grey is going to revolutionize our lifespans. I mean, after all, we're not trees, and most of us are not lobsters. (Laughter) But I've got to believe that there are Darwins and Einsteins out there, and I'll tell you why. Consider this: there are seven times more people alive today than during Darwin's time. There are four times as many people alive today as Einstein. When you consider that the proportion of scientists in the population has skyrocketed, there are now seven million scientists. I've got to believe, and I do believe, that there's one of them out there who is working right now in obscurity to rock our lives, and I don't know about you, but I can't wait to be rocked. Thank you. (Applause)"	今晚，我將與你們分享我對科學的熱愛。我要談的不是緩步漸進的科學，而是大步躍進的科學。我說的是達爾文、愛因斯坦，我說的是可以顛覆世界的革命性科學。稍後我將談兩個可能改變世界的想法。我說「可能」，因為大多數的革命性想法大錯特錯，而即使那些對的想法，也不容易有我們所冀望的大影響。 我挑了兩個例子來解釋為什麼，先從一個謎團開始講起。1847年在奧地利的維也納。伊格納茲·塞麥爾維斯是個嚴肅、極度龜毛的醫生，他經營兩間婦產科診所。除了一件事以外，兩間診所完全相同：其中一間的產婦，產後發高燒死亡的比率是另一間的三倍。為了要找出肇事的原因，塞梅爾魏斯竭盡所能地檢視每一樣可能性。衛生問題？不是。醫療程序問題？不是。空氣流通問題？不是。 該謎題一直未解，直到他解剖了一個死於被手術刀割傷而感染的醫生。醫生的症狀和那些在死亡線上掙扎的產婦相同。這怎麼可能？男醫生怎麼可能和新媽媽們得到同樣的病？塞梅爾魏斯重建了那醫生罹病前做過的每一件事，他發現那醫師解剖過屍體。是不是某種東西進了傷口而導致他的死亡？他越來越振奮地尋找太平間裡的屍體和產房裡死亡產婦間的任何關聯，他找到了。原來，在高死亡率的那間診所跟另一間不同，那間診所的醫生在太平間裡解剖屍體後會立即接生嬰兒。啊哈！屍體污染了醫生的手，並且導致產婦死亡。於是，他下令醫生消毒雙手，產婦就不再死亡了。塞梅爾魏斯醫生發現了傳染病。 但當時的醫生認為他瘋了，因為他們數百年來的認知是惡臭瘴氣引起了疾病，而不是這些看不見的假想小粒子。法國人路易·巴斯德花了20年證明塞梅爾魏斯是正確的。巴斯德是個農業化學家，他試圖找出為什麼牛奶和啤酒常會腐壞。他發現細菌是罪魁禍首。他還發現，細菌可致人於死，方式相同於某些塞梅爾魏斯的患者。 接下來看今晚我要說的兩個想法。我們看見塞梅爾魏斯是個革新者，原因有兩個：第一，他開啟了我們全新世界的眼界。1680年代，我們就已經知道有細菌這個東西。我們只是不知道細菌可致人於死。他也推翻了人們心裡固有的老舊想法。瘴氣沒殺人，而是細菌使人死亡。 因此，這引到我今晚想談的兩個主題。一個開了我們的眼界，使我們看到嶄新的宇宙；另一個抨擊了古老的信仰。 我們從艾力克·貝齊格博士開始。他是個物理學家，藉由違反物理定律，開啟了我們一個全新的世界。貝齊格是個真正的叛逆者。他辭去在著名的貝爾實驗室的工作，發明了觀察生物的螢光顯微鏡，因為他認為科學家差勁地使用他傑出的發明。他成了家庭主夫，但他從未失去解決問題的熱情，他找尋如何使顯微鏡顯現出更精細的細節的方法，勝於以往任何的顯微鏡。這至關重要，如果你要瞭解細胞如何運作、癌症如何活動，以及僅針頭150分之一大小的東西如何做出這些了不起的事情，像是：製造蛋白質，和移動電荷等等，這些事。 這裡有一個問題。有所謂的「物理學定律」，物理學定律中有「繞射極限」。繞射極限就像是眼科醫生的視力表，不管你戴上多好的眼鏡，能看清楚的小字仍有極限。 這是個所謂「不可能解決的問題」。但貝齊格有個朋友想出了方法，他讓一個比最好的顯微鏡可顯示的程度更小的小分子亮了起來，發出螢光。「啊哈！」 貝齊格說：「我認為或許物理學定律並非牢不可破。」 於是，他在朋友的客廳裡組建了一台顯微鏡。他沒有實驗室。這個創新的儀器讓不同的蛋白質分子以不同的顏色顯示，加上一台電腦，他把非常模糊的圖像轉成有著銳利對比的點，前所未有、意想不到地清晰的影像。 因這成就，艾力克·貝齊格獲得去年的化學諾貝爾獎。為什麼？因為如今我們能以前所未見的細節看到前所未見的東西，醫生能更好地處理癌症之類的病。 你以為貝齊格這樣就心滿意足了嗎？沒有。他想要有動畫。問題是他發明的超凡顯微鏡太慢了。於是他做了什麼？他翻出了200年前的老主意，所謂的「莫列波紋」。做法是：拿兩個非常精細的圖案交疊著相互移動，就會看到不交疊移動就看不到的全貌。他把這技術用在非常模糊的細胞影像上，讓許多結構化的光線穿過它，直到細胞影像變得非常清楚。結果是：一個神秘的新世界，充滿陌生之物，飛繞著，做些我們尚不明白的事。（笑聲）但是，一旦我們弄明白了，我們就能掌握生命的奧秘。 例如，有看到了那些綠色的水珠嗎？那些是「格形蛋白」。他們是分子，通過細胞，保護其他分子。不幸的是，有時候病毒劫持它們來感染細胞。另外，看到那些彎彎曲曲，像蠕蟲般扭動的東西嗎？那些是「肌動蛋白」分子。很不幸，病毒也爬下來，進入它們的細胞核，複製自己，使你生病。 因此，我們可以從影片中看到細胞深層實際發生的狀況，我們更有機會治愈病毒引起的疾病，例如愛滋病。 所以，當你看像這樣的影片，非常清楚，貝齊格已打開我們的眼界帶領我們來到一個全新的世界。但他尚未打破其他人的舊思維。 接下來是在劍橋的奧布里·德·格雷博士。德·格雷的有趣想法肯定使得科學家輾轉不安：人類可以長生不老；我們可以擊敗老化。大多數科學家認為他是個瘋子。（笑聲）任何學過「生物學入門」的學生都知道衰老是一種生命必然的後果。例如，當我們在進食時、吃下食物、代謝食物，會產生所謂的「自由基」，您們可能曾聽說過，又稱「氧離子」，它們會結合我們的DNA，導致變異，使我們變老和掉頭髮。 （笑聲） 這就像，不，這就跟氧氣結合鐵一樣，會使其生鏽。所以你會變老，是因為你生鏽了。 （笑聲） 哦，科學家們也知道癌症細胞能夠「不朽」。所以，如果你停止老化，你將變成會走動的巨大惡性腫瘤。 這些都是舊觀念，但德·格雷會不會握有某種重大發現的關鍵呢？我覺得他值得被一探究竟。首先，我很難把他當作個瘋子。是的，他原先是個計算機科學家，不是生物學家，但他獲得了劍橋大學的生物學博士學位，也已出版了一些非常顯著的研究，關於線粒體DNA和其他的東西。其次，他創立了抗衰老基金會，已確定了七種不同的老化原因，在我看來，似乎非常合理，他正在熱烈追求其中的每一項。［螢幕：老化的七種修正方式］例如，其中一個老化原因是線粒體DNA變異，我們老了，細胞會失去活力。他認為，也提出了有說服力的案例，可以用病毒做基因治療，修復DNA使細胞回春。 還有一件事。我們有證據極端長壽是可能的。芒松的生命可長達五千年；有的龍蝦根本不會老。 這並不意味著德·格雷會大大地改變我們的壽命。畢竟，我們不是樹，而且大多數人不是龍蝦。 （笑聲） 但我相信，外頭有著達爾文和愛因斯坦，我會告訴你為什麼。各位思考一下：當今的人口比達爾文時代多七倍，是愛因斯坦時代的四倍。各位想想，科學家的人口正在急劇地增長，現在有七百萬名科學家。我不得不相信，我絕對相信，這裡面一定有一個人...正在未知領域工作著，並即將為人類帶來震撼，我不知道你怎麼想，但我迫不及待要被震撼。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
