Talk	en	zh-tw
erik_schlangen_a_self_healing_asphalt	"(Hammer) (Laughter) (Microwave beeps) (Laughter) You probably all agree with me that this is a very nice road. It's made of asphalt, and asphalt is a very nice material to drive on, but not always, especially not on these days as today, when it's raining a lot. Then you can have a lot of splash water in the asphalt. And especially if you then ride with your bicycle, and pass these cars, then that's not very nice. Also, asphalt can create a lot of noise. It's a noisy material, and if we produce roads like in the Netherlands, very close to cities, then we would like a silent road. The solution for that is to make roads out of porous asphalt. Porous asphalt, a material that we use now in most of the highways in the Netherlands, it has pores and water can just rain through it, so all the rainwater will flow away to the sides, and you have a road that's easy to drive on, so no splash water anymore. Also the noise will disappear in these pores. Because it's very hollow, all the noise will disappear, so it's a very silent road. It also has disadvantages, of course, and the disadvantage of this road is that raveling can occur. What is raveling? You see that in this road that the stones at the surface come off. First you get one stone, then several more, and more and more and more and more, and then they — well, I will not do that. (Laughter) But they can damage your windshield, so you're not happy with that. And finally, this raveling can also lead to more and more damage. Sometimes you can create potholes with that. Ha. He's ready. Potholes, of course, that can become a problem, but we have a solution. Here you see actually how the damage appears in this material. It's a porous asphalt, like I said, so you have only a small amount of binder between the stones. Due to weathering, due to U.V. light, due to oxidation, this binder, this bitumen, the glue between the aggregates is going to shrink, and if it shrinks, it gets micro-cracks, and it delaminates from the aggregates. Then if you drive over the road, you take out the aggregates — what we just saw here. To solve this problem, we thought of self-healing materials. If we can make this material self-healing, then probably we have a solution. So what we can do is use steel wool just to clean pans, and the steel wool we can cut in very small pieces, and these very small pieces we can mix to the bitumen. So then you have asphalt with very small pieces of steel wool in it. Then you need a machine, like you see here, that you can use for cooking — an induction machine. Induction can heat, especially steel; it's very good at that. Then what you do is you heat up the steel, you melt the bitumen, and the bitumen will flow into these micro-cracks, and the stones are again fixed to the surface. Today I use a microwave because I cannot take the big induction machine here onstage. So a microwave is a similar system. So I put the specimen in, which I'm now going to take out to see what happened. So this is the specimen coming out now. So I said we have such an industrial machine in the lab to heat up the specimens. We tested a lot of specimens there, and then the government, they actually saw our results, and they thought, ""Well, that's very interesting. We have to try that."" So they donated to us a piece of highway, 400 meters of the A58, where we had to make a test track to test this material. So that's what we did here. You see where we were making the test road, and then of course this road will last several years without any damage. That's what we know from practice. So we took a lot of samples from this road and we tested them in the lab. So we did aging on the samples, did a lot of loading on it, healed them with our induction machine, and healed them and tested them again. Several times we can repeat that. So actually, the conclusion from this research is that if we go on the road every four years with our healing machine — this is the big version we have made to go on the real road — if we go on the road every four years we can double the surface life of this road, which of course saves a lot of money. Well, to conclude, I can say that we made a material using steel fibers, the addition of steel fibers, using induction energy to really increase the surface life of the road, double the surface life you can even do, so it will really save a lot of money with very simple tricks. And now you're of course curious if it also worked. So we still have the specimen here. It's quite warm. Actually, it still has to cool down first before I can show you that the healing works. But I will do a trial. Let's see. Yeah, it worked. Thank you. (Applause)"	"(敲擊聲） （笑） （微波爐嗶嗶聲）（笑） 可能你們都會同意我的看法這是一條很平整的路它是瀝青鋪成的柏油路在柏油路上開車很舒服但並非永遠如此, 尤其像今天下著大雨使得柏油路上到處濺起水花尤其當你騎著自行車並從車子旁經過, 情況會更糟還有, 柏油路上會產生許多噪音它是個吵雜的東西如果我們像在荷蘭一樣的鋪路一條離城市很近的路 那麼我們喜歡一條安靜的道路 對此的解決方法是鋪一條多孔的柏油路我們現在所用的多孔柏油路常見於荷蘭的高速公路它擁有水可以滲透的小孔所以雨水會流到路的兩邊，而你將能輕鬆地駕駛在路上,不會再水花四濺這些洞也能使所有的噪音消失因為凹陷的洞能使噪音消失這條路會非常安靜 當然它也有缺點那就是在這條路會有""鬆開""的情況什麼是""鬆開""? 看看這條路路面上的碎石子脫落先是一顆石子, 然後數個然後更多...並且— 我不會那麼做 (笑)但它們能破壞你的擋風玻璃所以你並不樂見最終, 這""鬆脫""的現象也將導致更多破壞有時甚至導致地面上的大坑洞準備好了 路面上的坑洞 當然是一大問題但我們有解決方法在這你可以看見這是個透水性的柏油路就像我所說的, 所以石子之間只能有一點點黏著劑由於氣候, 紫外線照射, 氧化作用,這黏著劑, 這瀝青路面整體的黏性將減少黏性減少就會有細微的裂縫裂縫誘使路面分層此時車子經過路面, 又將路面正如我們剛才所見為了解決這個問題, 我們想到了自療性物質如果我們能讓此物質擁有自療性或許能找到解決方法因此我們利用清洗鍋子的鋼絲絨將鋼絲絨切成細小的碎片我們將這些細小的碎片與瀝青混合便得到了混有鋼絲絨小碎片的柏油路之後你需要一部機器, 如你所見一個可以用來煮飯的電磁爐電磁爐能加熱, 對於鋼絲效果更佳你所要做的就是將鋼絲加熱並將瀝青融化而瀝青會流入這些微小縫隙這些小石子就會再度與路面黏合 今天我使用一台微波爐, 因為在台上我無法使用大型的晶體電磁爐微波爐和電磁爐的系統相近我現在要拿出剛才放入的樣本看看發生了什麼事這就是剛出爐的樣本 我們的實驗室擁有這樣一台工業用的機器能用來加熱這些樣本我們已做了許多試驗實際上政府也看見我們的成果他們認為, ""這非常有趣, 值得一試""所以政府捐贈出一段400公尺的A58公路, 我們必須在這利用此物質做一個實驗而這就是我們所做的, 你們看見我們正在實驗當然這條路將持續使用數年毫無一點損害. 這是我們實驗後得出的結論我們從這條路取了許多樣本並且在實驗室經握多次測試我們將這些樣本老化在路面樣本施加重量, 並用晶體電磁爐將樣本癒合如此反覆試驗多次重複從這項研究我們得出的結論是如果我們每四年在此條路上使用這台癒合型機器— 這台大型的版本為了用在真正道路上而製造的如果我們每隔四年保養一次便可以使這路面的壽命延長兩倍這當然可以節省一大筆錢。 最後，我可以說我們提出一種材料使用鋼纖維, 添加鋼纖維的方式再利用電磁感應的能量增加路面的壽命你甚至可以使路面壽命延長兩倍所以真的能以非常簡單的小方法節省一大筆錢 想必你現在很好奇這到底能否發揮作用所以我們在這裡仍有標本, 它很溫暖實際上, 在我展示它的癒合功能之前它仍要先冷卻下來但我會做個試驗讓我們看看。是的, 它起作用了謝謝。（掌聲）"
