Talk	en	zh-tw
esta_soler_how_we_turned_the_tide_on_domestic_violence_hint_the_polaroid_helped	"I want you to imagine what a breakthrough this was for women who were victims of violence in the 1980s. They would come into the emergency room with what the police would call ""a lovers' quarrel,"" and I would see a woman who was beaten, I would see a broken nose and a fractured wrist and swollen eyes. And as activists, we would take our Polaroid camera, we would take her picture, we would wait 90 seconds, and we would give her the photograph. And she would then have the evidence she needed to go to court. We were making what was invisible visible. I've been doing this for 30 years. I've been part of a social movement that has been working on ending violence against women and children. And for all those years, I've had an absolutely passionate and sometimes not popular belief that this violence is not inevitable, that it is learned, and if it's learned, it can be un-learned, and it can be prevented. (Applause) Why do I believe this? Because it's true. It is absolutely true. Between 1993 and 2010, domestic violence among adult women in the United States has gone down by 64 percent, and that is great news. (Applause) Sixty-four percent. Now, how did we get there? Our eyes were wide open. Thirty years ago, women were beaten, they were stalked, they were raped, and no one talked about it. There was no justice. And as an activist, that was not good enough. And so step one on this journey is we organized, and we created this extraordinary underground network of amazing women who opened shelters, and if they didn't open a shelter, they opened their home so that women and children could be safe. And you know what else we did? We had bake sales, we had car washes, and we did everything we could do to fundraise, and then at one point we said, you know, it's time that we went to the federal government and asked them to pay for these extraordinary services that are saving people's lives. Right? (Applause) And so, step number two, we knew we needed to change the laws. And so we went to Washington, and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation. And I remember walking through the halls of the U.S. Capitol, and I was in my 30s, and my life had purpose, and I couldn't imagine that anybody would ever challenge this important piece of legislation. I was probably 30 and naive. But I heard about a congressman who had a very, very different point of view. Do you know what he called this important piece of legislation? He called it the Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act. The Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act. Ladies and gentlemen, that was in 1984 in the United States, and I wish I had Twitter. (Laughter) Ten years later, after lots of hard work, we finally passed the Violence Against Women Act, which is a life-changing act that has saved so many lives. (Applause) Thank you. I was proud to be part of that work, and it changed the laws and it put millions of dollars into local communities. And you know what else it did? It collected data. And I have to tell you, I'm passionate about data. In fact, I am a data nerd. I'm sure there are a lot of data nerds here. I am a data nerd, and the reason for that is I want to make sure that if we spend a dollar, that the program works, and if it doesn't work, we should change the plan. And I also want to say one other thing: We are not going to solve this problem by building more jails or by even building more shelters. It is about economic empowerment for women, it is about healing kids who are hurt, and it is about prevention with a capital P. And so, step number three on this journey: We know, if we're going to keep making this progress, we're going to have to turn up the volume, we're going to have to increase the visibility, and we're going to have to engage the public. And so knowing that, we went to the Advertising Council, and we asked them to help us build a public education campaign. And we looked around the world to Canada and Australia and Brazil and parts of Africa, and we took this knowledge and we built the first national public education campaign called There's No Excuse for Domestic Violence. Take a look at one of our spots. (Video) Man: Where's dinner? Woman: Well, I thought you'd be home a couple hours ago, and I put everything away, so— Man: What is this? Pizza. Woman: If you had just called me, I would have known— Man: Dinner? Dinner ready is a pizza? Woman: Honey, please don't be so loud. Please don't—Let go of me! Man: Get in the kitchen! Woman: No! Help! Man: You want to see what hurts? (Slaps woman) That's what hurts! That's what hurts! (Breaking glass) Woman: Help me! [""Children have to sit by and watch. What's your excuse?""] Esta Soler: As we were in the process of releasing this campaign, O.J. Simpson was arrested for the murder of his wife and her friend. We learned that he had a long history of domestic violence. The media became fixated. The story of domestic violence went from the back page, but actually from the no-page, to the front page. Our ads blanketed the airwaves, and women, for the first time, started to tell their stories. Movements are about moments, and we seized this moment. And let me just put this in context. Before 1980, do you have any idea how many articles were in The New York Times on domestic violence? I'll tell you: 158. And in the 2000s, over 7,000. We were obviously making a difference. But we were still missing a critical element. So, step four: We needed to engage men. We couldn't solve this problem with 50 percent of the population on the sidelines. And I already told you I'm a data nerd. National polling told us that men felt indicted and not invited into this conversation. So we wondered, how can we include men? How can we get men to talk about violence against women and girls? And a male friend of mine pulled me aside and he said, ""You want men to talk about violence against women and girls. Men don't talk."" (Laughter) I apologize to the men in the audience. I know you do. But he said, ""Do you know what they do do? They do talk to their kids. They talk to their kids as parents, as coaches."" And that's what we did. We met men where they were at and we built a program. And then we had this one event that stays in my heart forever where a basketball coach was talking to a room filled with male athletes and men from all walks of life. And he was talking about the importance of coaching boys into men and changing the culture of the locker room and giving men the tools to have healthy relationships. And all of a sudden, he looked at the back of the room, and he saw his daughter, and he called out his daughter's name, Michaela, and he said, ""Michaela, come up here."" And she's nine years old, and she was kind of shy, and she got up there, and he said, ""Sit down next to me."" She sat right down next to him. He gave her this big hug, and he said, ""People ask me why I do this work. I do this work because I'm her dad, and I don't want anyone ever to hurt her."" And as a parent, I get it. I get it, knowing that there are so many sexual assaults on college campuses that are so widespread and so under-reported. We've done a lot for adult women. We've got to do a better job for our kids. We just do. We have to. (Applause) We've come a long way since the days of the Polaroid. Technology has been our friend. The mobile phone is a global game changer for the empowerment of women, and Facebook and Twitter and Google and YouTube and all the social media helps us organize and tell our story in a powerful way. And so those of you in this audience who have helped build those applications and those platforms, as an organizer, I say, thank you very much. Really. I clap for you. (Applause) I'm the daughter of a man who joined one club in his life, the Optimist Club. You can't make that one up. And it is his spirit and his optimism that is in my DNA. I have been doing this work for over 30 years, and I am convinced, now more than ever, in the capacity of human beings to change. I believe we can bend the arc of human history toward compassion and equality, and I also fundamentally believe and passionately believe that this violence does not have to be part of the human condition. And I ask you, stand with us as we create futures without violence for women and girls and men and boys everywhere. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	請各位想像對 1980 年代受暴婦女來說這是多麼大的突破。她們進入急診室，帶著警察稱為「情侶爭執」的傷，我會看到一位被毆打的女性，我會看到被打斷的鼻子、折斷的手腕和腫脹的雙眼。身為行動主義者，我們會拿起拍立得相機為她們拍照，等待 90 秒後，再把相片交給她。因此她就會有上法庭時需要用到的證據。我們做的事情是讓看不見的被看見。我做這件事 30 年了。我一直參與這項社會運動，目的在終止對婦女與兒童施暴。那麼多年來，我有絕對的熱情，而且還有偶爾不太受歡迎的信念，那就是這暴力並不是無法避免的，那是經由學習而來，而如果是學來的，也可以解除學習，而且還能預防。（掌聲）為什麼我相信這個？因為這是事實。那是千真萬確的事實。在 1993 年到 2010 年之間，成年女性的家暴案件在美國已經減少了 64%，那是個天大的好消息。（掌聲）64%！我們是怎麼辦到的？我們大開眼界。30 年前，女性被毆打、被跟蹤、被強暴，卻沒有人談這件事。世上沒有正義。身為行動主義者，這樣的世界不夠好。因此這段旅程的第一步是組織，我們建立了這個特別的地下網絡，其中有許多卓越的女性設立了庇護所，如果她們不是開設庇護所，就是開放自己的家，如此一來女性和小孩就能安全無虞。你知道我們還做了什麼嗎？我們賣烘焙食品、洗車，還做任何能募款的事情，直到有一刻我們想，是時候該去聯邦政府要求他們為這些救人命的非凡服務付費了。對吧？（掌聲）因此，第二步，我們知道需要修法。因此我們前進華盛頓，進行第一波立法遊說。我記得穿越美國國會大廈大廳，那時我才三十多歲，我有使命，我無法想像有人會反對這項重要法令。我才大概 30 歲，而且很天真。但是我聽過一位國會議員提出非常非常獨特的觀點。你知道他怎麼稱呼這項重要的法令嗎？他稱之為「讓婚姻索然無味法」，讓婚姻索然無味法。各位女士、先生，那是在 1984 年的美國，真希望我那時有推特。（笑聲）十年後，經過許多努力，我們終於通過「防止婦女受暴法案」，這是會改變人們一生的法案，拯救了許多人命。（掌聲）謝謝。很榮幸我能參與那項工作，修改法令，並且挹注百萬美元到社區裡。你知道那還帶來了什麼嗎？收集數據。我得告訴你，我對數據充滿熱情。其實我是數據迷。我相信在座也有很多數據迷。我是數據迷，原因是我想確定我們花的每一塊錢都有成效，如果沒有成效，我們就得換個計畫。我想再分享另一件事：要解決這個問題，我們不打算透過蓋更多監獄或是設立更多庇護所。而是要賦予女性經濟權、治療受傷的孩子，以及最重要的「預防」。因此，這趟旅程的第三步是：我們了解如果想繼續推展，我們就要大聲呼籲，我們就要增加能見度，我們就要讓大眾參與。知道怎麼做之後，我們就去拜訪廣告委員會，請他們協助我們辦理公眾教育活動。我們找遍世界各地，像是加拿大、澳洲、巴西和部分非洲，我們吸取這知識，並且建立了第一個全國性的公共教育活動，名為「家暴沒有藉口」。看看我們其中一個節目。（影片）男：晚餐呢？女：嗯，我以為你幾個小時前就會回家，就把東西都收起來了，所以…男：這是什麼？披薩。女：如果你先打通電話給我，我就會知道…男：晚餐？準備好的晚餐是披薩？女：親愛的，請別這麼大聲。別這樣──放開我！男：去廚房！女：不要！拜託！男：你想看看什麼叫痛嗎？（摑女巴掌）那才叫痛！那才叫痛！（摔破玻璃）女：救命！【小孩必須坐在旁邊看。你的藉口是什麼？】伊斯塔：在我們推行這個活動的過程中，辛普森被逮捕入獄，因為他謀殺了他的妻子和她的朋友。我們知道他長期在家中施暴。媒體開始關注。家暴的故事從最後一版，其實是從放不上版面，到上了頭版。我們的廣告在廣播中舖天蓋地，而這也是第一次，女性開始訴說她們的故事。運動的關鍵是時機，我們緊抓住這一刻。讓我先補充說明一點。1980 年之前，你知道紐約時報上有多少報導是關於家庭暴力嗎？我告訴你：158 則。而在 2000 年代則超過 7,000 件。顯然我們造成了影響。但我們還是漏了關鍵的一點。因此，第四步：我們應該把男性拉進來。我們不能在解決這個問題時，有 50% 的人口袖手旁觀。我剛說過我是數據迷。全國民調中顯示男性覺得被指控，且未受邀參與這場對話。因此我開始思考，我們要怎麼把男性拉進來？我們要怎麼讓男人討論反對向女人和女孩施暴？有位男性友人把我拉到一旁，他說：「你想要男人討論反對向女人和女孩施暴？他們才不會要。」（笑聲）我向在場的男性觀眾致歉。我知道你們會說。但是他說：「你知道他們會做什麼嗎？他們會跟自己的小孩對話。他們以父母和教練的身分和孩子對話。」那就是我們做的事。我們造訪男性會出現的地方，並且開展計畫。接著我們策畫這個活動，這個活動永存我心，有一位籃球教練對著一間滿是男性運動員和來自各行各業的男性說話。他談到一些事情的重要性，包括把男孩訓練成男人、改變置物間的文化，以及提供男性擁有健全關係的方法。突然間他看向房間的後面，看到了他的女兒，他叫了女兒的名字，「米凱拉」，他說：「米凱拉，上台來。」她那時才九歲，有點害羞，上了台後，他說：「坐在我旁邊」。她就坐在他身邊。他給了她一個大大的擁抱，他說：「大家問我為什麼要做這件事。我做這件事是因為我是她的父親，我不希望有人傷害她。」身為家長，我了解。我了解，我知道有很多性侵案件發生在大學校園，如此普遍卻隱而不報。我們為成年女性做了很多，我們得為自己的孩子做得更好。我們要做，我們不得不這麼做。（掌聲）從拍立得那個年代開始，我們走了好長一段路。科技一直是我們的朋友。行動電話是改變世界的工具，幫助賦予女性權力，臉書、推特、Google 和 Youtube，以及所有社群媒體協助我們用強而有力的方式組織並訴說故事。因此在座觀眾中曾協助我們建置文件、舞台的人們，身為發起人，我想說，非常謝謝你們。真的，我要獻上我的掌聲。（掌聲）我是一名男士的女兒，他在人生中曾加入一個俱樂部，樂觀俱樂部。那是騙不了人的。他的精神和樂觀深植在我的基因裡。我做這項工作已長達 30 年了，我深信，從未如此深信不疑，人類有能力改變。我相信我們可以改變人類歷史的趨勢，朝向憐憫和平等，我也打從心底相信，且熱血澎湃地相信，暴力不一定要存在人類的生活環境中。請各位與我們一起站出來，在我們打造無暴力未來時，幫助各個角落的婦女、女孩、男士與男孩。非常感謝大家。（掌聲）
