Talk	en	zh-tw
fabian_oefner_psychedelic_science	"An image is worth more than a thousand words, so I'm going to start my talk by stop talking and show you a few images that I recently captured. So by now, my talk is already 6,000 words long, and I feel like I should stop here. (Laughter) At the same time, I probably owe you some explanation about the images that you just saw. What I am trying to do as a photographer, as an artist, is to bring the world of art and science together. Whether it is an image of a soap bubble captured at the very moment where it's bursting, as you can see in this image, whether it's a universe made of tiny little beads of oil paint, strange liquids that behave in very peculiar ways, or paint that is modeled by centrifugal forces, I'm always trying to link those two fields together. What I find very intriguing about those two is that they both look at the same thing: They are a response to their surroundings. And yet, they do it in a very different way. If you look at science on one hand, science is a very rational approach to its surroundings, whereas art on the other hand is usually an emotional approach to its surroundings. What I am trying to do is I'm trying to bring those two views into one so that my images both speak to the viewer's heart but also to the viewer's brain. Let me demonstrate this based on three projects. The first one has to do with making sound visible. Now as you may know, sound travels in waves, so if you have a speaker, a speaker actually does nothing else than taking the audio signal, transform it into a vibration, which is then transported through the air, is captured by our ear, and transformed into an audio signal again. Now I was thinking, how can I make those sound waves visible? So I came up with the following setup. I took a speaker, I placed a thin foil of plastic on top of that speaker, and then I added tiny little crystals on top of that speaker. And now, if I would play a sound through that speaker, it would cause the crystals to move up and down. Now this happens very fast, in the blink of an eye, so, together with LG, we captured this motion with a camera that is able to capture more than 3,000 frames per second. Let me show you what this looks like. (Music: ""Teardrop"" by Massive Attack) (Applause) Thank you very much. I agree, it looks pretty amazing. But I have to tell you a funny story. I got an indoor sunburn doing this while shooting in Los Angeles. Now in Los Angeles, you could get a decent sunburn just on any of the beaches, but I got mine indoors, and what happened is that, if you're shooting at 3,000 frames per second, you need to have a silly amount of light, lots of lights. So we had this speaker set up, and we had the camera facing it, and lots of lights pointing at the speaker, and I would set up the speaker, put the tiny little crystals on top of that speaker, and we would do this over and over again, and it was until midday that I realized that I had a completely red face because of the lights pointing at the speaker. What was so funny about it was that the speaker was only coming from the right side, so the right side of my face was completely red and I looked like the Phantom of the Opera for the rest of the week. Let me now turn to another project which involves less harmful substances. Has anyone of you heard of ferrofluid? Ah, some of you have. Excellent. Should I skip that part? (Laughter) Ferrofluid has a very strange behavior. It's a liquid that is completely black. It's got an oily consistency. And it's got tiny little particles of metal in it, which makes it magnetic. So if I now put this liquid into a magnetic field, it would change its appearance. Now I've got a live demonstration over here to show this to you. So I've got a camera pointing down at this plate, and underneath that plate, there is a magnet. Now I'm going to add some of that ferrofluid to that magnet. Let's just slightly move it to the right and maybe focus it a little bit more. Excellent. So what you can see now is that the ferrofluid has formed spikes. This is due to the attraction and the repulsion of the individual particles inside the liquid. Now this looks already quite interesting, but let me now add some watercolors to it. Those are just standard watercolors that you would paint with. You wouldn't paint with syringes, but it works just the same. So what happened now is, when the watercolor was flowing into the structure, the watercolors do not mix with the ferrofluid. That's because the ferrofluid itself is hydrophobic. That means it doesn't mix with the water. And at the same time, it tries to maintain its position above the magnet, and therefore, it creates those amazing-looking structures of channels and tiny little ponds of colorful water paint. So that was the second project. Let me now turn to the last project, which involves the national beverage of Scotland. (Laughter) This image, and also this one, were made using whiskey. Now you might ask yourself, how did he do that? Did he drink half a bottle of whiskey and then draw the hallucination he got from being drunk onto paper? I can assure you I was fully conscious while I was taking those pictures. Now, whiskey contains 40 percent of alcohol, and alcohol has got some very interesting properties. Maybe you have experienced some of those properties before, but I am talking about the physical properties, not the other ones. So when I open the bottle, the alcohol molecules would spread in the air, and that's because alcohol is a very volatile substance. And at the same time, alcohol is highly flammable. And it was with those two properties that I was able to create the images that you're seeing right now. Let me demonstrate this over here. And what I have here is an empty glass vessel. It's got nothing in it. And now I'm going to fill it with oxygen and whiskey. Add some more. Now we just wait for a few seconds for the molecules to spread inside the bottle. And now, let's set that on fire. (Laughter) So that's all that happens. It goes really fast, and it's not that impressive. I could do it again to show it one more time, but some would argue that this is a complete waste of the whiskey, and that I should rather drink it. But let me show you a slow motion in a completely darkened room of what I just showed you in this live demonstration. So what happened is that the flame traveled through the glass vessel from top to bottom, burning the mix of the air molecules and the alcohol. So the images that you saw at the beginning, they are actually a flame stopped in time while it is traveling through the bottle, and you have to imagine it was flipped around 180 degrees. So that's how those images were made. (Applause) Thank you. So, I have now showed you three projects, and you might ask yourself, what is it good for? What's the idea behind it? Is it just a waste of whiskey? Is it just some strange materials? Those three projects, they're based on very simple scientific phenomena, such as magnetism, the sound waves, or over here, the physical properties of a substance, and what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to use these phenomena and show them in a poetic and unseen way, and therefore invite the viewer to pause for a moment and think about all the beauty that is constantly surrounding us. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	圖片能傳達的訊息，勝過千言萬語因此我的演講將以緘默和幾張最近捕捉的影像作為開頭將以緘默和幾張最近捕捉的影像作為開頭 截至目前為止我的演講已多達六千字因此我認為這次演講就到此為止 （笑聲） 但我猜想我還虧欠你們有關這些影像的一些說明身為一名攝影師、同時也是一位藝術家，我致力於將藝術和科學的世界結合在一起無論是肥皂泡沫在破裂瞬間所捕捉到的畫面如同你們所見的這張無論是油漆的微小粒子組成的世界無論是油漆的微小粒子組成的世界以非常奇特方式呈現的特殊液體或者油漆因離心力所產生的圖案我不斷嘗試將這兩個領域做結合 我發現，兩者引人入勝之處在於一個共同點：都是對於周遭環境的回應但卻是以截然不同的方式單就科學而論科學以一種十分理性的角度回應周遭的環境而另一方面呢藝術則常以感性作為切入我正在做的是試者把兩者的觀點合而為一因此，我拍攝的影像不僅與觀眾感性對談也進行理性討論我將以三個實驗來向各位說明 第一是聲音的形象化眾所皆知的是聲音以聲波形式傳遞假設有一台揚聲器其實揚聲器只用來接收音頻訊號將其轉換為振頻並藉由空氣的傳播由我們的耳朵所感知然後再次轉換成音頻訊號因此我不斷思索如何將聲波形象化呢？我想到以下的裝置我找了一個揚聲器在上面鋪上一層塑膠薄片並放了小小的水晶在揚聲器上這樣一來，使用揚聲器播放聲音時上面的水晶會上下跳動這一切都在轉瞬間發生以迅雷不及掩耳的速度進行我們藉助一部 LG 的攝影機以每秒捕捉三千張圖像以上的速度拍下了一切以下是我們所捕捉到的圖像 （音樂：強烈衝擊合唱團的《淚珠》） （掌聲） 非常感謝我也覺得那令人嘆為觀止 但我要告訴你們一個有趣的事在洛杉磯拍攝時我居然在室內曬傷了這個季節，到洛杉磯任一海灘都可以曬出一身美麗的古銅色但我卻是在室內而原因是若你想以每秒三千個畫面去拍攝所需光量將非常可觀、無比大量的光我們把揚聲器準備好攝影機朝它拍攝並投以大量的光線一切準備就緒之後再將水晶珠子放在揚聲器上不斷重複這樣的步驟直到中午我才發現我的臉被揚聲器上投射的強光曬得像關二哥一樣有趣的是揚聲器架設在我的右邊所以只有右半邊的臉被曬紅後來的幾天我看起來就像歌劇魅影裡的魅影 我的第二個構想涉及了一些低強度的有害物質在座有人聽過鐵磁流體嗎?有人聽過，太棒了！我要省略那個部份嗎？ （笑聲） 鐵磁流體的特性非常奇妙它是一種極黑的液體濃稠度和油相似含有微小的金屬微粒金屬微粒使它具有磁性若是將液體注入磁場中外觀就會改變 我準備現場示範讓各位更加清楚這台攝影機朝著下方薄板拍攝薄板下面，有一塊磁鐵現在我要在磁鐵上方注入一些鐵磁流體 然後稍微地向右移調整一下焦距，很好！ 現在可以發現鐵磁流體形成尖刺狀成因是鐵磁流體內金屬微粒相吸與相斥的作用這已經相當有趣我現在要加點水彩進去就只是一般的水彩平常用來畫畫那種你可能不會用針筒來畫但原理是一樣的你看到的是當水彩流進這個結構裡水彩不會和鐵磁流體相融合因為鐵磁流體本身具有疏水性也就是不和水融合同時它也盡量在磁鐵上方保持原來的位置因而產生了令人驚豔的水彩運河和迷你池塘這是我第二個構想 而最後一個實驗會用到蘇格蘭的國民飲料（笑聲） 這個影像，還有這個都是威士忌的貢獻你心想︰他怎麼辦到的？他是乾掉半瓶的威士忌後然後把酒醉的幻覺畫在紙上嗎？我保證在拍這些照片時 是完全清醒的 威士忌含有 40％ 的酒精而酒精有些非常有趣的特性也許你曾經體驗過其中一些特性但我說的物理特性跟你們想的可不太一樣當我打開酒瓶後酒精分子會瀰漫在空氣中因為酒精是易揮發的物質同時也相當易燃歸功於這兩個特性我才有辦法創作出你們眼前所見的這些影像 讓我做個現場示範這是一個空的玻璃容器裡面什麼都沒有我要在裡面填充氧氣和威士忌再多加一點只要等個幾秒鐘讓分子散佈在瓶子內然後一把火燒了它 （笑聲） 就是這樣反應的速度真的很快，感覺沒什麼了不起的我可以重做一遍有些人可能會抗議這簡直就是浪費威士忌，我寧願把它喝掉 但請看看慢動作版這是在沒有光線的暗房裡拍攝的如同我剛才在現場示範的一樣火焰從玻璃瓶口到瓶底燃燒了空氣分子和酒精的混和物燃燒了空氣分子和酒精的混和物所以你們一開始所看到的影像其實就是火焰在瓶子裡燃燒時定格的畫面試著想像將影像翻轉180度後就是我所呈現出來的圖片 （掌聲） 謝謝 我展示了以上三個實驗你或許會納悶：這有什麼了不起的？你究竟想表達些什麼？學會怎麼浪費威士忌？不過是些奇特的材質？以上三個實驗基於非常簡單的科學現象例如：磁力、聲波、或是物質的物理特性而我希望呈現的是利用這些科學現象並以具詩意的、前所未見的方式藉此邀請觀賞者暫停片刻思索一下這些生活週遭的美麗事物 非常感謝 （掌聲）
