Talk	en	zh-tw
francis_collins_we_need_better_drugs_now	"So let me ask for a show of hands. How many people here are over the age of 48? Well, there do seem to be a few. Well, congratulations, because if you look at this particular slide of U.S. life expectancy, you are now in excess of the average life span of somebody who was born in 1900. But look what happened in the course of that century. If you follow that curve, you'll see that it starts way down there. There's that dip there for the 1918 flu. And here we are at 2010, average life expectancy of a child born today, age 79, and we are not done yet. Now, that's the good news. But there's still a lot of work to do. So, for instance, if you ask, how many diseases do we now know the exact molecular basis? Turns out it's about 4,000, which is pretty amazing, because most of those molecular discoveries have just happened in the last little while. It's exciting to see that in terms of what we've learned, but how many of those 4,000 diseases now have treatments available? Only about 250. So we have this huge challenge, this huge gap. You would think this wouldn't be too hard, that we would simply have the ability to take this fundamental information that we're learning about how it is that basic biology teaches us about the causes of disease and build a bridge across this yawning gap between what we've learned about basic science and its application, a bridge that would look maybe something like this, where you'd have to put together a nice shiny way to get from one side to the other. Well, wouldn't it be nice if it was that easy? Unfortunately, it's not. In reality, trying to go from fundamental knowledge to its application is more like this. There are no shiny bridges. You sort of place your bets. Maybe you've got a swimmer and a rowboat and a sailboat and a tugboat and you set them off on their way, and the rains come and the lightning flashes, and oh my gosh, there are sharks in the water and the swimmer gets into trouble, and, uh oh, the swimmer drowned and the sailboat capsized, and that tugboat, well, it hit the rocks, and maybe if you're lucky, somebody gets across. Well, what does this really look like? Well, what is it to make a therapeutic, anyway? What's a drug? A drug is made up of a small molecule of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and a few other atoms all cobbled together in a shape, and it's those shapes that determine whether, in fact, that particular drug is going to hit its target. Is it going to land where it's supposed to? So look at this picture here — a lot of shapes dancing around for you. Now what you need to do, if you're trying to develop a new treatment for autism or Alzheimer's disease or cancer is to find the right shape in that mix that will ultimately provide benefit and will be safe. And when you look at what happens to that pipeline, you start out maybe with thousands, tens of thousands of compounds. You weed down through various steps that cause many of these to fail. Ultimately, maybe you can run a clinical trial with four or five of these, and if all goes well, 14 years after you started, you will get one approval. And it will cost you upwards of a billion dollars for that one success. So we have to look at this pipeline the way an engineer would, and say, ""How can we do better?"" And that's the main theme of what I want to say to you this morning. How can we make this go faster? How can we make it more successful? Well, let me tell you about a few examples where this has actually worked. One that has just happened in the last few months is the successful approval of a drug for cystic fibrosis. But it's taken a long time to get there. Cystic fibrosis had its molecular cause discovered in 1989 by my group working with another group in Toronto, discovering what the mutation was in a particular gene on chromosome 7. That picture you see there? Here it is. That's the same kid. That's Danny Bessette, 23 years later, because this is the year, and it's also the year where Danny got married, where we have, for the first time, the approval by the FDA of a drug that precisely targets the defect in cystic fibrosis based upon all this molecular understanding. That's the good news. The bad news is, this drug doesn't actually treat all cases of cystic fibrosis, and it won't work for Danny, and we're still waiting for that next generation to help him. But it took 23 years to get this far. That's too long. How do we go faster? Well, one way to go faster is to take advantage of technology, and a very important technology that we depend on for all of this is the human genome, the ability to be able to look at a chromosome, to unzip it, to pull out all the DNA, and to be able to then read out the letters in that DNA code, the A's, C's, G's and T's that are our instruction book and the instruction book for all living things, and the cost of doing this, which used to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, has in the course of the last 10 years fallen faster than Moore's Law, down to the point where it is less than 10,000 dollars today to have your genome sequenced, or mine, and we're headed for the $1,000 genome fairly soon. Well, that's exciting. How does that play out in terms of application to a disease? I want to tell you about another disorder. This one is a disorder which is quite rare. It's called Hutchinson-Gilford progeria, and it is the most dramatic form of premature aging. Only about one in every four million kids has this disease, and in a simple way, what happens is, because of a mutation in a particular gene, a protein is made that's toxic to the cell and it causes these individuals to age at about seven times the normal rate. Let me show you a video of what that does to the cell. The normal cell, if you looked at it under the microscope, would have a nucleus sitting in the middle of the cell, which is nice and round and smooth in its boundaries and it looks kind of like that. A progeria cell, on the other hand, because of this toxic protein called progerin, has these lumps and bumps in it. So what we would like to do after discovering this back in 2003 is to come up with a way to try to correct that. Well again, by knowing something about the molecular pathways, it was possible to pick one of those many, many compounds that might have been useful and try it out. In an experiment done in cell culture and shown here in a cartoon, if you take that particular compound and you add it to that cell that has progeria, and you watch to see what happened, in just 72 hours, that cell becomes, for all purposes that we can determine, almost like a normal cell. Well that was exciting, but would it actually work in a real human being? This has led, in the space of only four years from the time the gene was discovered to the start of a clinical trial, to a test of that very compound. And the kids that you see here all volunteered to be part of this, 28 of them, and you can see as soon as the picture comes up that they are in fact a remarkable group of young people all afflicted by this disease, all looking quite similar to each other. And instead of telling you more about it, I'm going to invite one of them, Sam Berns from Boston, who's here this morning, to come up on the stage and tell us about his experience as a child affected with progeria. Sam is 15 years old. His parents, Scott Berns and Leslie Gordon, both physicians, are here with us this morning as well. Sam, please have a seat. (Applause) So Sam, why don't you tell these folks what it's like being affected with this condition called progeria? Sam Burns: Well, progeria limits me in some ways. I cannot play sports or do physical activities, but I have been able to take interest in things that progeria, luckily, does not limit. But when there is something that I really do want to do that progeria gets in the way of, like marching band or umpiring, we always find a way to do it, and that just shows that progeria isn't in control of my life. (Applause) Francis Collins: So what would you like to say to researchers here in the auditorium and others listening to this? What would you say to them both about research on progeria and maybe about other conditions as well? SB: Well, research on progeria has come so far in less than 15 years, and that just shows the drive that researchers can have to get this far, and it really means a lot to myself and other kids with progeria, and it shows that if that drive exists, anybody can cure any disease, and hopefully progeria can be cured in the near future, and so we can eliminate those 4,000 diseases that Francis was talking about. FC: Excellent. So Sam took the day off from school today to be here, and he is — (Applause) — He is, by the way, a straight-A+ student in the ninth grade in his school in Boston. Please join me in thanking and welcoming Sam. SB: Thank you very much. FC: Well done. Well done, buddy. (Applause) So I just want to say a couple more things about that particular story, and then try to generalize how could we have stories of success all over the place for these diseases, as Sam says, these 4,000 that are waiting for answers. You might have noticed that the drug that is now in clinical trial for progeria is not a drug that was designed for that. It's such a rare disease, it would be hard for a company to justify spending hundreds of millions of dollars to generate a drug. This is a drug that was developed for cancer. Turned out, it didn't work very well for cancer, but it has exactly the right properties, the right shape, to work for progeria, and that's what's happened. Wouldn't it be great if we could do that more systematically? Could we, in fact, encourage all the companies that are out there that have drugs in their freezers that are known to be safe in humans but have never actually succeeded in terms of being effective for the treatments they were tried for? Now we're learning about all these new molecular pathways — some of those could be repositioned or repurposed, or whatever word you want to use, for new applications, basically teaching old drugs new tricks. That could be a phenomenal, valuable activity. We have many discussions now between NIH and companies about doing this that are looking very promising. And you could expect quite a lot to come from this. There are quite a number of success stories one can point to about how this has led to major advances. The first drug for HIV/AIDS was not developed for HIV/AIDS. It was developed for cancer. It was AZT. It didn't work very well for cancer, but became the first successful antiretroviral, and you can see from the table there are others as well. So how do we actually make that a more generalizable effort? Well, we have to come up with a partnership between academia, government, the private sector, and patient organizations to make that so. At NIH, we have started this new National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences. It just started last December, and this is one of its goals. Let me tell you another thing we could do. Wouldn't it be nice to be able to a test a drug to see if it's effective and safe without having to put patients at risk, because that first time you're never quite sure? How do we know, for instance, whether drugs are safe before we give them to people? We test them on animals. And it's not all that reliable, and it's costly, and it's time-consuming. Suppose we could do this instead on human cells. You probably know, if you've been paying attention to some of the science literature that you can now take a skin cell and encourage it to become a liver cell or a heart cell or a kidney cell or a brain cell for any of us. So what if you used those cells as your test for whether a drug is going to work and whether it's going to be safe? Here you see a picture of a lung on a chip. This is something created by the Wyss Institute in Boston, and what they have done here, if we can run the little video, is to take cells from an individual, turn them into the kinds of cells that are present in the lung, and determine what would happen if you added to this various drug compounds to see if they are toxic or safe. You can see this chip even breathes. It has an air channel. It has a blood channel. And it has cells in between that allow you to see what happens when you add a compound. Are those cells happy or not? You can do this same kind of chip technology for kidneys, for hearts, for muscles, all the places where you want to see whether a drug is going to be a problem, for the liver. And ultimately, because you can do this for the individual, we could even see this moving to the point where the ability to develop and test medicines will be you on a chip, what we're trying to say here is the individualizing of the process of developing drugs and testing their safety. So let me sum up. We are in a remarkable moment here. For me, at NIH now for almost 20 years, there has never been a time where there was more excitement about the potential that lies in front of us. We have made all these discoveries pouring out of laboratories across the world. What do we need to capitalize on this? First of all, we need resources. This is research that's high-risk, sometimes high-cost. The payoff is enormous, both in terms of health and in terms of economic growth. We need to support that. Second, we need new kinds of partnerships between academia and government and the private sector and patient organizations, just like the one I've been describing here, in terms of the way in which we could go after repurposing new compounds. And third, and maybe most important, we need talent. We need the best and the brightest from many different disciplines to come and join this effort — all ages, all different groups — because this is the time, folks. This is the 21st-century biology that you've been waiting for, and we have the chance to take that and turn it into something which will, in fact, knock out disease. That's my goal. I hope that's your goal. I think it'll be the goal of the poets and the muppets and the surfers and the bankers and all the other people who join this stage and think about what we're trying to do here and why it matters. It matters for now. It matters as soon as possible. If you don't believe me, just ask Sam. Thank you all very much. (Applause)"	"請用舉手的方式回答我。多少人超過48歲？看來並不多。 恭喜大家，因為如果當你看到這張幻燈片上美國人的預期壽命，現在各位的壽命都超過1900 年出生的一些人。 但看看在這個世紀裏發生了什麼事。如果各位沿著這條曲線，可以看到它從這下降了。那就是因爲 1918 年大流感。這是 2010 年的數據，這一年出生的小孩，預估平均壽命為 79 歲，而且還會繼續增長。目前，這是個好消息。但還有很多工作要做。 舉例來說，如果你問，我們現在到底知道多少疾病的精確的分子基礎？說穿了大概就是 4,000 種，這是非常了不起的，而且發現這些分子大部分都是最近前發生的。從已知的觀點，很興奮可以看到這樣的結果，但是 4000 種疾病中，有多少疾病現在有治療方法？大概祇有 250 種。所以我們面對著非常巨大的挑戰，巨大的差距。 您可能會想這件事也不會太困難，我們很容易就能獲取基本資訊，關於基礎生物學是如何告訴我們的關於疾病的生成原因以及在一條大壕溝的上面蓋一座橋樑，一邊是我們學到的基礎科學，另外一邊是它的應用。一座橋，看起來也許像這樣，我們必須建一條優良的康莊大道從一側連結到另一側。 嗯，是不是如果這麼簡單就太好了?不幸的是，事與願違。在現實中，試圖從基礎知識走向該知識的實際應用，更像是這樣。沒有閃亮的橋樑。如同你在下賭注。也許你會得到一位泳將和划艇一艘拖船和一艘帆船然後你開始給他們方向，開始下雨、雷電交加唉呦喂呀，水中還有鯊魚你的泳將陷入大麻煩，喔哦，你的泳將溺水了帆船翻船了，這艘拖船，撞到大石頭，如果你幸運的話，剛好有人要過去。 事實上這樣看起來像什麼？到底什麼東西可以有療效?藥是什麼? 藥是由氫分子、碳分子、氧分子、 氮分子、 和其它幾個原子組合而成的特定形狀，正是靠這些形狀，事實上，決定是否某種特定的藥物可擊中目標。它會到達它應該去的地方嗎?看看這張照片 — 各位的周遭都有很多這種形狀在跳舞。現在你需要做什麼，如果你想要探索自閉症的新治療法或阿茲海默症、或癌症是在混和之中找到正確的形狀，最終會帶來好處，而且很安全。當你觀察這些管線，你也許從成千上萬，上億的化合物開始。你釐清各個的步驟這導致許多失敗。最終，也許您可以對其中的 4~5 項做臨床試驗，如果一切順利，在你開始14 年後，你得到一個批准。它將花費超過 10 億美金就為了一次成功。 所以我們必須用一種工程師的思維看看這條管線，並說，""可以做得更好嗎?""這就是今天早上要對各位說的主題。如何讓整件事進行得更快?我們如何讓它更成功？ 讓我告訴你幾個例子實際有效的例子。一個案例是幾個月前才發生的事情一項針對 ""囊狀纖維化"" 的藥物成功取得審批。但是已經花了很長一段時間才得到。""囊狀纖維化"" 已於1989 年發現其分子層的成因。經由我的團隊與位於多倫多的團隊一起合作發現一個特定的基因突變在7 號染色體。看到的那幅畫了嗎？是的。這就是同一的孩子。他叫丹尼班賽特，23 年之後，就是這一年也是在丹尼結婚的一年我們第一次通過 FDA 批准一種藥物可精確地修復""囊狀纖維化""的缺陷基於所有對分子的認識的基礎上。這是個好消息。壞消息是，這種藥物並不真的可以治療所有的 ""囊狀纖維化""對丹尼就無效，然而我們仍然在等待希望下一代可以幫助到他。 但歷經了 23 年才到這邊。實在太長太久。我們如何加速? 嗯，一種加速方式是利用科技，一種我們非常看重的技術適用於全人類的基因組，能够看到一對染色體，解開它，並拔出所有的 DNA，然後能夠解讀該 DNA 代碼中的密码子A、 C、 G 的和 T 的這是我們人類的指令書和一切生物的建構組成指導書，做到這一點的成本曾經需要好幾億美元在過去 10 年中下降的速度已超越摩爾定律，今天做一份你我的基因體定序已經低於一萬美元我們正快速朝向1,000 美元基因體定序前進。嗯，真令人興奮。應用於疾病的觀點，這件事是如何演變的? 我要告訴你另一個障礙。這是非常罕見的一種紊亂。它被稱為哈欽森-吉爾福德（早衰症），它是最具戲劇性的過早老化現象。大約每個 400 萬孩子中只有 1位有這種疾病，一種簡單的方式發生，發生的情況是，因為在一個特定的基因突變產生一種對細胞有毒的蛋白質造成這些人老化老化的速度比一般人快 7 倍。 透過一段影片說明這個突變對細胞做了什麼事。正常的細胞，如果你在顯微鏡下看它是這樣會有一個核心在細胞中央，邊緣是是漂亮、圓潤、平滑和它看上去有點像。另一方面，早衰症細胞因為這種有毒蛋白質，稱為 ""早衰蛋白"" (progerin)，有這些腫塊與凹凸不平整。發見這件事後，最想做的事早在 2003 年就是找出修正它的方法。同樣，透過瞭解分子途徑，是有可能從許多化合物中找出有用的一個然後試試看。培養細胞時做的一個實驗在此以動畫方式秀出來，如果把特定化合物將其加到具有早衰症的細胞，你看發生什麼事，在短短 72 小時內，那個細胞變成可由我們控制的所有目標。幾乎就是一個正常細胞。 真令人興奮，但在實際人體中是否也有效?僅四年的空間裡從發現基因到臨床實驗測試到測試那個非常複合物。然後看到這些孩子全部都是自願參加的，一共有28位，从照片上可以看出他們事實上是一群非常突出的年輕人。他们都患有這種疾病，每個人都很相似。與其告訴你更多資訊，不如邀請其中之一，從波士頓來的 山姆· 伯恩斯他早上來到這裡，站上這舞台告訴我們他的經歷。身為早衰症的患童。山姆現在15 歲。他的父母，斯科特 · 伯恩斯和萊斯利 · 戈登和兩位醫生早上也都和我們在一起。山姆，請坐。 （掌聲） 山姆，你何不告訴大家身受早衰症所苦的的感覺是什麼? 山姆伯恩斯： 嗯，早衰症限制我某些發展。我不能運動或肢體活動但是我一直可以對事物感到興趣幸運的是，早衰症並不侷限我的興趣。但當我真正想做某件事早衰症有點像鼓號樂隊般介入或像主審，我們總是找方法去做，只是要說明早衰症並沒有控制我的人生。 （掌聲） 法蘭西斯 · 柯林斯： 所以，您想要對研究人員說什麼在這個禮堂及所有聆聽的人？你會針對早衰症的研究說什麼也許其他有關的狀況說時麼? SB： 嗯，研究早衰症至今不少於15年，只要研究者有一條路撐到目前為止，有非常的意義對我自己和所有早衰症的孩子們，只要還有一條路，任何人都可以治癒任何疾病，期望早衰症在不久的將來是可以被治癒的，因此，我們可以消除這 4,000 種疾病這就是法蘭西斯所言。 FC: 很棒。山姆今天向學校請假一天。來到這裡，他是 — (掌聲) —順便說明，他是成绩一直優等的九年級學生在他的學校在波士頓。請和我一起感謝並歡迎山姆。SB： 非常感謝你。FC: 非常好。非常好，朋友。（掌聲） 我想要再講一、兩件事，關於特別的故事，進而希望推廣我們如何能有成功的故事呢如同山姆所說，這些疾病片佈各地，這4,000種疾病在等待解答。您可能已經注意到這個藥物正在做早衰症的臨床試驗並不是為了這個目的而製成的藥。這麼罕見的疾病，很難找到公司願意花上億美元研發藥物。這是一種治療癌症的藥物。事實證明，這藥對癌症沒有很有效，但是這藥有完全相同的屬性與形狀對早衰症有效，就是這麼回事。如果我們能更有系統地這樣做，不是很棒嗎？事實上，我們可以鼓勵所有市場上的公司公司冷凍櫃中的藥物只要是對人類是安全的但從來沒有真正成功地有效治療他們原來被試驗的目的？現在我們正在學習這些新的分子途徑 —其中一些這種藥物可以被重新定位或改變用途，若用你想要用的字眼用在新的應用上，就是讓老藥玩新把戲。有可能變成非常驚人的、有價值的活動。我們目前對美國國家衛生研究院和藥廠之間有很多討論，認為往此方向前進非常有前途。 你可以對此滿懷期望。任何人都可以說出一堆成功的故事有關這種方法已經引起的重大進展。愛滋病毒/愛滋病的第一款藥物並不是為愛滋病毒/愛滋病所發展。是為了癌症而研發的藥物。它就是AZT。當時對癌症並不有效，但成為但卻首次成功對 ""抗反轉病毒"" 有效，您可以從表格中看到還有很多其他案例。 所以我們實際上如何讓這種方法更普及而努力？嗯，我們必須拿出一種夥伴關係學術界、 政府、 私營部門之間及病人組織，成為夥伴。在美國國家衛生研究院，我們已經開始新的國家推進轉化科學研究中心。去年 12 月剛開始，其目標之一就是今日討論的概念。 讓我告訴你另一件我們能做的事。能做藥物測試不是很好嗎?看看它是否有效和安全而無需置病人於風險之中，因為你對第一次永遠不敢確保無事？例如，我們怎麼知道藥物在我們給人們使用之前是否安全？我們在動物上測試它們。並不完全可靠，而且代價很高，而且很耗時。假設我們可以在人體細胞上做試驗。如果你很關注，您可能已經知道，對一些科學文獻您現在可以採一個皮膚細胞並培養成為肝細胞或一個心臟細胞、腎細胞、或腦細胞給我們任何一個人。所以如果您使用這些細胞作為您的測試，對一種藥物是否會有效?和安全? 這裡您看到一張照片，肺在一個晶片上。這是由 Wyss 研究所(在波士頓)所創造的他們在這裡完成了什麼，如果我們播放這短片，從一個人身上取得細胞，把他們變成類似肺裡面出現的細胞並控制可能的結果如果您添加到這各種藥物化合物以查看它們是否有毒或安全。您可以看到這晶片甚至會呼吸。它具有空氣通道。它有一個血通道。細胞在中間這使您可以看到當您添加一種化合物時會發生什麼反應。這些細胞開心嗎?你可以做這種晶片技術給腎臟、 心臟、 肌肉、和所有你想要知道的地方，是否某種藥物對肝臟而言會是一個問題。 最終，您可以為個人這麼做我們甚至可以看見一個重點在開發和測試藥物的能力上你就在晶片上，我們要說的是""個人化""的藥品開發過程以及""個人化""的測試安全性。 所以讓我總結一下。我們正處於一個重要的時刻。對我來說，在美國國家衛生研究院將近20年對於位於前面我們的潛力從來沒有更興奮過。我們讓這些發現走出實驗室到世界各地。我們需要利用什麼？首先，我們需要的資源。這是高風險、 有時高成本的研究。為了巨大的回報，可以從健康的角度和經濟增長的角度。我們都需要支持。第二，我們需要各種新的夥伴關係學術界、政府、私營部門之間、病人組織，就像我剛剛說明的一用一種我們能去重新提出新化合物的方法。第三，可能是最重要的，我們需要人才。我們需要最好和最聰明的人從許多不同的學科來參加這項工作 —來自所有年齡、 所有不同群體 —因為現在正是時候，夥伴。這是 21 世紀您一直在等待的生物學，我們有機會得到並把它變成某東西，事實上殲滅疾病。這就是我的目標。我希望這也是你的目標。我想它也會是詩人和木偶的目標衝浪者者和銀行家們和所有其他的人加入這舞台想想我們可以試著做些什麼和為什麼它很重要。它現在很重要。它馬上就很重要如果你不相信我，問問山姆吧。 感謝大家。 （掌聲）"
