Talk	en	zh-tw
frederic_kaplan_how_i_built_an_information_time_machine	"This is an image of the planet Earth. It looks very much like the Apollo pictures that are very well known. There is something different; you can click on it, and if you click on it, you can zoom in on almost any place on the Earth. For instance, this is a bird's-eye view of the EPFL campus. In many cases, you can also see how a building looks from a nearby street. This is pretty amazing. But there's something missing in this wonderful tour: It's time. i'm not really sure when this picture was taken. I'm not even sure it was taken at the same moment as the bird's-eye view. In my lab, we develop tools to travel not only in space but also through time. The kind of question we're asking is Is it possible to build something like Google Maps of the past? Can I add a slider on top of Google Maps and just change the year, seeing how it was 100 years before, 1,000 years before? Is that possible? Can I reconstruct social networks of the past? Can I make a Facebook of the Middle Ages? So, can I build time machines? Maybe we can just say, ""No, it's not possible."" Or, maybe, we can think of it from an information point of view. This is what I call the information mushroom. Vertically, you have the time. and horizontally, the amount of digital information available. Obviously, in the last 10 years, we have much information. And obviously the more we go in the past, the less information we have. If we want to build something like Google Maps of the past, or Facebook of the past, we need to enlarge this space, we need to make that like a rectangle. How do we do that? One way is digitization. There's a lot of material available — newspaper, printed books, thousands of printed books. I can digitize all these. I can extract information from these. Of course, the more you go in the past, the less information you will have. So, it might not be enough. So, I can do what historians do. I can extrapolate. This is what we call, in computer science, simulation. If I take a log book, I can consider, it's not just a log book of a Venetian captain going to a particular journey. I can consider it is actually a log book which is representative of many journeys of that period. I'm extrapolating. If I have a painting of a facade, I can consider it's not just that particular building, but probably it also shares the same grammar of buildings where we lost any information. So if we want to construct a time machine, we need two things. We need very large archives, and we need excellent specialists. The Venice Time Machine, the project I'm going to talk to you about, is a joint project between the EPFL and the University of Venice Ca'Foscari. There's something very peculiar about Venice, that its administration has been very, very bureaucratic. They've been keeping track of everything, almost like Google today. At the Archivio di Stato, you have 80 kilometers of archives documenting every aspect of the life of Venice over more than 1,000 years. You have every boat that goes out, every boat that comes in. You have every change that was made in the city. This is all there. We are setting up a 10-year digitization program which has the objective of transforming this immense archive into a giant information system. The type of objective we want to reach is 450 books a day that can be digitized. Of course, when you digitize, that's not enough, because these documents, most of them are in Latin, in Tuscan, in Venetian dialect, so you need to transcribe them, to translate them in some cases, to index them, and this is obviously not easy. In particular, traditional optical character recognition method that can be used for printed manuscripts, they do not work well on the handwritten document. So the solution is actually to take inspiration from another domain: speech recognition. This is a domain of something  that seems impossible, which can actually be done, simply by putting additional constraints. If you have a very good model of a language which is used, if you have a very good model of a document, how well they are structured. And these are administrative documents. They are well structured in many cases. If you divide this huge archive into smaller subsets where a smaller subset actually shares similar features, then there's a chance of success. If we reach that stage, then there's something else: we can extract from this document events. Actually probably 10 billion events can be extracted from this archive. And this giant information system can be searched in many ways. You can ask questions like, ""Who lived in this palazzo in 1323?"" ""How much cost a sea bream at the Realto market in 1434?"" ""What was the salary of a glass maker in Murano maybe over a decade?"" You can ask even bigger questions because it will be semantically coded. And then what you can do is put that in space, because much of this information is spatial. And from that, you can do things like reconstructing this extraordinary journey of that city that managed to have a sustainable development over a thousand years, managing to have all the time a form of equilibrium with its environment. You can reconstruct that journey, visualize it in many different ways. But of course, you cannot understand  Venice if you just look at the city. You have to put it in a larger European context. So the idea is also to document all the things that worked at the European level. We can reconstruct also the journey of the Venetian maritime empire, how it progressively controlled the Adriatic Sea, how it became the most powerful medieval empire of its time, controlling most of the sea routes from the east to the south. But you can even do other things, because in these maritime routes, there are regular patterns. You can go one step beyond and actually create a simulation system, create a Mediterranean simulator which is capable actually of reconstructing even the information we are missing, which would enable us to have  questions you could ask like if you were using a route planner. ""If I am in Corfu in June 1323 and want to go to Constantinople, where can I take a boat?"" Probably we can answer this question with one or two or three days' precision. ""How much will it cost?"" ""What are the chance of encountering pirates?"" Of course, you understand, the central scientific challenge of a project like this one is qualifying, quantifying and representing uncertainty and inconsistency at each step of this process. There are errors everywhere, errors in the document, it's the wrong name of the captain, some of the boats never actually took to sea. There are errors in translation, interpretative biases, and on top of that, if you add algorithmic processes, you're going to have errors in recognition, errors in extraction, so you have very, very uncertain data. So how can we detect and correct these inconsistencies? How can we represent that form of uncertainty? It's difficult. One thing you can do is document each step of the process, not only coding the historical information but what we call the meta-historical information, how is historical knowledge constructed, documenting each step. That will not guarantee that we actually converge toward a single story of Venice, but probably we can actually reconstruct a fully documented potential story of Venice. Maybe there's not a single map. Maybe there are several maps. The system should allow for that, because we have to deal with a new form of uncertainty, which is really new for this type of giant databases. And how should we communicate this new research to a large audience? Again, Venice is extraordinary for that. With the millions of visitors that come every year, it's actually one of the best places to try to invent the museum of the future. Imagine, horizontally you see the reconstructed map of a given year, and vertically, you see the document that served the reconstruction, paintings, for instance. Imagine an immersive system that permits to go and dive and reconstruct the Venice of a given year, some experience you could share within a group. On the contrary, imagine actually that you start from a document, a Venetian manuscript, and you show, actually, what you can construct out of it, how it is decoded, how the context of that document can be recreated. This is an image from an exhibit which is currently conducted in Geneva with that type of system. So to conclude, we can say that research in the humanities is about to undergo an evolution which is maybe similar to what happened to life sciences 30 years ago. It's really a question of scale. We see projects which are much beyond any single research team can do, and this is really new for the humanities, which very often take the habit of working in small groups or only with a couple of researchers. When you visit the Archivio di Stato, you feel this is beyond what any single team can do, and that should be a joint and common effort. So what we must do for this paradigm shift is actually foster a new generation of ""digital humanists"" that are going to be ready for this shift. I thank you very much. (Applause)"	這是地球的照片看起來和廣為人知的阿波羅計劃中拍到的照片很像看起來和廣為人知的阿波羅計劃中拍到的照片很像但其中有些差異你可以點擊它如果你點擊它你就可以放大地球上的幾乎每個地方舉例來說，這是洛桑聯邦理工學院的鳥瞰圖舉例來說，這是洛桑聯邦理工學院的鳥瞰圖很多時候你也可以從旁邊的街上看到某棟建築物的的長相這真的很神奇但這趟美妙的旅程還少了一樣東西：時間我不確定這張照片是什麼時候拍的我甚至無法確定這是在鳥瞰圖的當下拍的我甚至無法確定這是在鳥瞰圖的當下拍的在我的實驗室的研發工具不止用在空間的旅行也用在時間的旅行我們想問的問題是有辦法做出過往時間的Google Maps嗎？有辦法在Google Maps上增加一個滑桿只要改變年份就可以看到100年前1000年前的樣子嗎？這可能嗎？我能夠重建過去的社群網路嗎？我可以建立中世紀時的Facebook嗎？我能夠建造時光機嗎？我們可以說：「不，這不可能。」或者，我們可以從資訊的角度來看我把這個稱之為資訊蘑菇縱軸是時間橫軸是我們擁有的數位資訊很明顯的，在過去的10年中我們擁有很大量的資訊也看得出來，越早以前資訊就越少如果我們想建立過去的Google Maps或是過去的Facebook我們就必須擴大這個空間像是一個長方形這要如何做到呢？一個辦法是數位化有很多的材料可以用—報紙、印刷書本好幾千本印刷書本我可以把它們全部數位化我可以從當中截取資訊當然，當時間越往前你擁有的資訊就越少所以，這可能不夠因此，我可以做史學家們做的事我可以推論這就是我們在電腦科學中所稱的模擬如果我有一本航海日誌我可以不只把它看成是一位威尼斯船長特定的航程我可以把它看成是當時許多航程的代表我就是在推論如果我有一幅建築外觀的繪畫我可以不只把它看作特定的一棟建築這棟建築可能和其它遺失了資訊的建築有著相同的風格 如果我們想要打造一台時光機我們需要兩樣東西大量的檔案也需要很厲害的專家威尼斯時光機 (The Venice Time Machine)也就是我接下來要跟你們談論的計劃這個計劃是由洛桑聯邦理工學院和威尼斯大學所合作 威尼斯有個特點它的管理非常非常的官僚他們持續紀錄了每一件事情就像Google一樣在政府典藏中心 (Archivio di Stato)有長達80公里的檔案記錄了超過1000年來威尼斯生活的每個面相每一艘出海的船每一艘返航的船在這城市裡面的每一個變化都記錄得一清二楚我們正建立一個10年的數位化計劃要把這個龐大的檔案轉換成一個巨大的數位系統我們想達成的目標是每天可以數位化450本書 當然，只有數位化是不夠的因為這些文件大部份都是用拉丁、托斯卡納、威尼斯方言寫的所以有時必須轉錄、翻譯它們並編成索引而這理所當然並不容易特別是當傳統的光學字符識別法運用在手寫稿上效果不若列印稿的時候解決辦法是借助另外一個方法：語音識別這個方法看似不可能但卻是可行的只需要加入額外的條件如果你有一個很好的語言模型曾經被使用過如果你有一個很好的文件模型那它們就已經很完整了而這些是官方文件很多都非常完整當你把這巨大的檔案分成許多小子集而每個子集都有共同的特徵的話成功的機會就很大 如果我們達到這個階段就能夠做其他事情：汲取這個文件中的資訊事實上這個檔案中大約可以汲取出100億個事件這個巨型資訊系統可以用多種方法搜尋例如，你可以問這樣的問題「誰在1323年住在這座皇宮裡面？」「1434年時Realto市場裡一條鯛魚多少錢？」「在十年中Murano玻璃工匠的薪水多高？」你也可以問更大的問題因為它是用語意編碼的然後你就可以把它放在空間中因為大部份的資訊都是空間性的接下來就可以重建這座城市非凡的旅程這座城市設法永續發展超過1000年設法讓時間和環境取得平衡你可以重建這趟旅程用不同方法看到它但是當然，如果只是用看的你無法了解威尼斯你要把它放到一個更廣大、歐洲的概念裡面所以這個想法同時也要把檔案放在歐洲的層級中我們也可以重建威尼斯這個海上帝國的旅程了解它是如何積極地控制亞德里亞海的如何成為中世紀控制了大部分東方以及南方航線的最強大的帝國 你甚至可以做到其它事因為這些航線有相似之處可以更進一步建立模擬系統建立地中海模擬器它可以重建我們遺失的資訊讓你在用路線規劃時的問題可以得到解答 「如果我在1323年的科孚，想去康士坦丁堡我要去哪裡搭船？」 我們或許可以在一天，兩天或三天的準確度之內回答這個問題 「要花多少錢？」 「有多大的機率遇到海盜？」 當然，你懂的，這種計劃最大的挑戰在於修飾、量化並在每一步驟重現不確定以及不一致的資料這份文件裡到處都有錯誤文件裡的錯誤包括把船長的名字搞錯了，而有些船根本沒下過水也有翻譯的錯誤，翻譯時的誤解此外，在用演算法的時候會有辨認上的錯誤汲取上的錯誤所以你會得到相當相當不確定的數據 那我們要如何找到並修正這些不一致之處呢？ 我們如何重現不確定性？很困難。你可以做的一件事是把每一個步驟建檔不只是把歷史訊息編碼也把所謂的元歷史(meta-history)訊息也就是建立歷史知識的根基的每一步都建檔這沒辦法保證我們確實涵蓋到威尼斯的每一個故事但我們確實根據完整文件重建了威尼斯每一個可能發生過的故事也許地圖不止一幅可能有好幾幅地圖系統應該要可以到這樣子因為我們得面對一個新型態的不確定性包含這樣龐大且新穎的資料庫那我們要如何把這個新研究告訴大眾呢？威尼斯是個絕佳的地方由於每年有好幾百萬的遊客這裡是試著創造未來博物館最好的地點之一想想，平躺的是建立出的特定年份的地圖立著的是用來重建這幅地圖的文件例如，圖畫想像一個讓你彷彿置身於特定年份的威尼斯的沈浸式系統一種讓你能和別人分享的經驗相反的，想像你能夠從一份威尼斯手稿開始看看你到底能夠從當中建立什麼它是如何被解碼、當中所蘊含的概念是如何重建這張圖片是現在在日內瓦的展覽當中展出它就是用這類系統所建立的總而言之人文研究正走向一場像是生命科學30年前所經歷的革命事實上，問題在於它的規模我們看到這些計劃遠超出任何一個小型研究團隊所能夠做的這在人文領域也很新穎人文領域習慣小團隊或是只和數個研究員合作當你造訪政府典藏中心時你會感覺到這超過任何一個團隊做得到的這必須依賴團隊合作在這個典範轉移中我們必須培養一些新一代準備好迎接這個進步的「數位」人文學家謝謝（掌聲）
