Talk	en	zh-tw
gabe_barcia_colombo_my_dna_vending_machine	"This is a vending machine in Los Angeles. It's in a shopping mall, and it sells fish eggs. It's a caviar-vending machine. This is the Art-o-mat, an art-vending machine that sells small artistic creations by different artists, usually on small wood blocks or matchboxes, in limited edition. This is Oliver Medvedik. He is not a vending machine, but he is one of the founders of Genspace, a community biolab in Brooklyn, New York, where anybody can go and take classes and learn how to do things like grow E. coli that glows in the dark or learn how to take strawberry DNA. In fact, I saw Oliver do one of these strawberry DNA extractions about a year ago, and this is what led me into this bizarre path that I'm going to talk to you right now. Strawberry DNA is really fascinating, because it's so beautiful. I'd never thought about DNA being a beautiful thing before, before I saw it in this form. A lot of people, especially in the art community, don't necessarily engage in science in this way. I instantly joined Genspace after this, and asked Oliver, ""If we can do this with strawberries, can we do this with people?"" About 10 minutes later, we were both spitting in vials, coming up with a protocol for human DNA extraction. I started doing this on my own. This is what my DNA actually looks like. And I was at a dinner party with some artist friends, and I was telling them about this project, and they couldn't believe that you could actually see DNA. So I said, all right, let's get out some supplies right now. And I started having these bizarre dinner parties on Friday nights, where people would come over and we'd do DNA extractions, and I would capture them on video, because it created this kind of funny portrait as well. (Laughter) These are people who don't necessarily regularly engage with science. You can kind of tell from their reactions. (Laughter) But they became fascinated by it, and it was really exciting for me to see them get excited about science. And so I started doing this regularly. (Laughter) It's an odd thing to do with your Friday nights, but this is what I started doing. I started collecting a whole group of my friends' DNA in small vials and categorizing them. This is what that looked like. And it started to make me think about a couple of things. First, this looked a lot like my Facebook wall. So in a way, I created sort of a genetic social network. And the second thing was, one time a friend came over and looked at this on my table and was like,  ""Uh ... why are they numbered? Is this person more rare than the other one?"" And I hadn't even thought about that. They were just numbered because that was the order that I extracted the DNA in. But that made me think about collecting toys, and what's going on right now in the toy world with blind box toys, and being able to collect these rare toys. You buy these boxes, but aren't sure what's going to be inside. But when you open them, you have different rarities of the toys. I thought that was interesting; I thought about this and the caviar vending machine and the Art-o-mat all together. And for some reason, I was one night drawing a vending machine, thinking of doing paintings of a vending machine. The vial of my DNA was sitting there, and I saw a beautiful collaboration between the strands of DNA and the coils of a vending machine. So I decided to create an art installation called the DNA Vending Machine. Here it is. (Music) [DNA Vending Machine is an art installation about our increasing access to biotechnology.] (Music) [For a reasonable cost, you can purchase a sample of human DNA from a traditional vending machine.] (Music) [Each sample comes packaged with a collectible limited edition portrait of the human specimen.] (Music) [DNA Vending Machine treats DNA as a collectible material and brings to light legal issues over the ownership of DNA.] (Music ends) Gabriel Barcia-Colombo: The DNA Vending Machine is currently in a couple of galleries in New York, and it's selling out pretty well. We're in the first edition of 100 pieces, hoping to do another edition pretty soon. I'd like to get it into more of a metro hub, like Grand Central or Penn Station, next to some of the other vending machines in that location. But really, with this and a lot of my art projects, I want to ask the audience a question: When biotechnology and DNA sequencing becomes as cheap as, say, laser cutting or 3D printing or buying caviar from a vending machine, will you submit your sample of DNA to be part of the vending machine? How much will these samples be worth? Will you buy someone else's sample? And what will you be able to do with that sample? Thank you. (Applause)"	這是在洛杉磯的一部自動販賣機，在一個大型購物商城，販賣魚卵。這是一部魚子醬販賣機。 這是一部Art-o-mat，即另一類自動販賣機，販賣不同藝術家創作的小藝術品，賣的通常為小型木刻或者火柴盒，這些藝術品都為限量版。 這是奧利弗•馬凡迪。他不是一部自動販賣機，但是，他是基因空間（Genspace）的創建人之一。基因空間是紐約布魯克林的一所社區生物實驗室，人人都可以去那裡上課，學習各類東西，諸如培育在暗處發光的大腸桿菌，或者如何萃取草莓的DNA。老實說，一年前我看過奧利弗萃取草莓DNA，而這就是我的奇思怪想之始，也是今日我將為大家講解的主題。因為草莓DNA實在是叫人著迷，因為這實在是太漂亮了。以前我從來不知道DNA是如此美麗動人，因為我未見過DNA的這種形態。很多人，特別是藝術圈內的人，不見得會以此方式涉入科學領域。此後我很快就加入了基因空間，我問奧利弗：「哎，既然我們能做草莓的，我們能不能做人的DNA呢？」大概十分鐘後，我們兩人已經將DNA放入瓶子裡面做分離，即得出人類DNA萃取物的雛形。我獨自開始做這件事，而這個，是我的DNA的容貌。 有一次我跟朋友聚餐，藝術圈內的朋友，我跟他們介紹我的計畫，他們不相信真的可以看見DNA。於是我就說，好吧，我們現在就做一些出來。之後，我家開始有這些稀奇古怪的週五晚聚餐，人們都會過來，然後一起萃取DNA，我把這些人都一一拍下來，這樣我就可以同時得到這類古靈精怪的表情。（笑聲）這些人啊，通常情況下，都不會跟科學領域打交道。你大概也可以從他們的反應看出來。但是他們對這件事很著迷，而我自己也很興奮看到他們開始對科學感興趣。 之後我開始定期進行舉辦這個活動。每週五晚做這事情，的確有點奇怪，但這就是我開始做的事，我也開始用小瓶子收集我這幫朋友的DNA，並且進行分類。這就是他們的DNA。由此我也開始考慮一些事情。首先，這看上去很像我的臉書牆。所以呢，我大概也創造了一個基因網，一個真正的基因社交網。 而第二件事呢，有次一個朋友過來，看了我桌子上的這些東西，就問：「噢，為什麼編號了？是不是因為這個人的基因比另外一個罕見？」我從來沒想過這問題。DNA編號是因為我就是按這個順序萃取DNA的。但是這讓我想到收集玩具，而現在這事情，就好像在玩具世界，玩具盒裡藏著未知的玩具，大家能夠收集到一些稀有的玩具。你買了這些玩具盒，但是你不知道盒子裡有什麼玩具。但是，當你打開盒子時，你就擁有各種稀有的玩具。然後我就想，這很好玩。我開始把這個跟魚子醬販賣機和Art-o-mat聯想起來，很偶然，一天晚上我在畫一部自動販賣機，考慮要畫販賣機的畫，又想到我的那些DNA，我看到了某種美妙的融合，DNA的這些曲線和自動販賣機的卷線之間的融合。之後呢，當然，我決定創造一部藝術裝置，名叫DNA自動販賣機。請看。 （音樂） [「DNA自動販賣機是一部關於增加接觸生物技術的藝術裝置。」] [「以合理的價格，你就可以從傳統的自動販賣機購買人類DNA樣本。」] [「每一個樣本都同時附有該NDA主人的一張有收藏價值的限量版人物像。」] [「DNA自動販賣機將DNA視為有收藏價值的材料，引發有關NDA擁有權合法問題的討論。」] 卡伯耀•卡希亞-戈倫柏（Gabriel Garcia-Colombo）：目前，DNA自動販賣機已經出現在紐約的幾個美術館，而且還賣得不錯。我們現在做了第一版，有100個，希望很快就能做第二版。我希望能把它帶進繁忙的地鐵站，諸如中央車站或賓州車站，然後就擺在其他真正的自動販賣機旁邊。 但是進行這個計畫和其他藝術計畫的同時，我想問在場觀眾一個問題：要是生物技術和DNA測序變得像雷射切割一樣便宜，或者像3D列印或從販賣機買魚子醬一樣便宜，你們仍然會交出你的DNA樣本給自動販賣機使用嗎？這些樣本又值多少錢？你會願意買其他人的樣本嗎？之後你們拿著樣本又能做什麼？ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
