Talk	en	zh-tw
gary_kovacs_tracking_the_trackers	"I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share. And the amount of time each of us is spending doing all of this is also continuing to go grow. A recent study showed that the young generation alone is spending over eight hours a day online. As the parent of a nine-year-old girl, that number seems awfully low. (Laughter) But just as the Internet has opened up the world for each and every one of us, it has also opened up each and every one of us to the world. And increasingly, the price we're being asked to pay for all of this connectedness is our privacy. Today, what many of us would love to believe is that the Internet is a private place; it's not. And with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen, we are like Hansel and Gretel leaving breadcrumbs of our personal information everywhere we travel through the digital woods. We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence, our interests and preferences, our relationships, our financial histories, and on and on it goes. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not for one minute suggesting that sharing data is a bad thing. In fact, when I know the data that's being shared and I'm asked explicitly for my consent, I want some sites to understand my habits. It helps them suggest books for me to read or movies for my family to watch or friends for us to connect with. But when I don't know and when I haven't been asked, that's when the problem arises. It's a phenomenon on the Internet today called behavioral tracking, and it is very big business. In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us. And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it. This is an area today that has very few regulations and even fewer rules. Except for some of the recent announcements here in the United States and in Europe, it's an area of consumer protection that's almost entirely naked. So let me expose this lurking industry a little bit further. The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you. The red dots you see up there are sites that are behavioral tracking that I have not navigated to, but are following me. The blue dots are the sites that I've actually navigated directly to. And the gray dots are sites that are also tracking me, but I have no idea who they are. All of them are connected, as you can see, to form a picture of me on the Web. And this is my profile. So let me go from an example to something very specific and personal. I installed Collusion in my own laptop two weeks ago and I let it follow me around for what was a pretty typical day. Now like most of you, I actually start my day going online and checking email. I then go to a news site, look for some headlines. And in this particular case I happened to like one of them on the merits of music literacy in schools and I shared it over a social network. Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, ""Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?"" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, ""What's literacy?"" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up. Now let me stop here. We are not even two bites into breakfast and there are already nearly 25 sites that are tracking me. I have navigated to a total of four. So let me fast-forward through the rest of my day. I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day — in this case, actually fairly pedantic — and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile. The red dots have exploded. The gray dots have grown exponentially. All in all, there's over 150 sites that are now tracking my personal information, most all of them without my consent. I look at this picture and it freaks me out. This is nothing. I am being stalked across the Web. And why is this happening? Pretty simple — it's huge business. The revenue of the top handful of companies in this space is over 39 billion dollars today. And as adults, we're certainly not alone. At the same time I installed my own Collusion profile, I installed one for my daughter. And on one single Saturday morning, over two hours on the Internet, here's her Collusion profile. This is a nine-year-old girl navigating to principally children's sites. I move from this, from freaked out to enraged. This is no longer me being a tech pioneer or a privacy advocate; this is me being a parent. Imagine in the physical world if somebody followed our children around with a camera and a notebook and recorded their every movement. I can tell you, there isn't a person in this room that would sit idly by. We'd take action. It may not be good action, but we would take action. (Laughter) We can't sit idly by here either. This is happening today. Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet. Our voices matter and our actions matter even more. Today we've launched Collusion. You can download it, install it in Firefox, to see who is tracking you across the Web and following you through the digital woods. Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard. Because what we don't know can actually hurt us. Because the memory of the Internet is forever. We are being watched. It's now time for us to watch the watchers. Thank you. (Applause)"	不知道為什麼 每當我想到這世界有25億人口透過網路連結在一起而且在任何時間點都有超過百分之三十的世界人口在網路上學習 創作或分享，我總覺得驚奇而我們花在網路上做這些事的時間也不斷增加最近一項研究顯示光是年輕一代每天就花了超過八小時在網路上身為一個九歲大女兒的爸爸這個數字好像還太低（笑聲） 但正如網路讓我們每一個人的世界更開闊它也讓世界更容易找到我們每一個人而因為這樣的連結而不斷的日益增加的代價就是我們的隱私權今天 很多人都一廂情願地以為網路是個私密的場所 事實並非如此你每點一次滑鼠 每滑一下螢幕我們就像童話〈糖果屋〉裡的漢森與葛萊特處處留下個人資料的麵包屑在這個數字森林裡我們留下我們的生日 住的地方我們的興趣 喜好我們的人際關係我們的財務狀況 許許多多的東西 不要誤會我不是來這裡說資料共享是壞事事實上 當我知道某個網站要共享我的資料而且很慎重的來徵求我的同意我會讓這些網站瞭解我的嗜好他們可以藉此推薦適合我的書適合我家觀賞的電影甚至替我們找到朋友但當我不知道我的資料被共享 也沒人來問我問題就來了這就是現今網路普遍存在的現象叫做行為追蹤這是非常龐大的商機 事實上 有一個行業因此形成在這個數字森林裡跟蹤我們收集每個人的資料當他們得到這些資料他們可以用那些資料做任何他們想做的事情現在可以管這個領域的法規還很少更不用談法律了除了最近美國及歐洲發佈了一些相關聲明這個領域幾乎沒有消費者保護 讓我多透露一點這個偷窺業的行為你現在看到 在我背後的視覺化圖像叫 Collusion（共謀）這是個實驗性的瀏覽器附加元件你可以安裝在火狐瀏覽器上讓你看到你的網路資料去了哪 以及誰在追蹤你你在這裡看到的紅點是會做行為追蹤的網站我並沒有去瀏覽這些網站 但是他們會跟蹤我藍色的點則是我實際去看了的網站而這些灰色的點也是在追蹤我的網站但我不知道它們是誰這些網站都連結在一起 正如你所見形成網路上的我這就是我的簡歷 我現在舉一個具體的親身經歷兩週前我在我的筆電上裝了Collusion我讓它追蹤我平常的網路行為就像大部份的人一樣我從上網看電郵開始一天然後我去新聞網站看看頭條在這裡我剛好喜歡一段有關學校教音樂素養的好處的報導我把它貼在一個社群網站上分享 然後我的女兒跟我們一起吃了早餐在餐桌上我問她 你學校有沒有特別強調音樂素養她很自然的 就像一般的九歲小孩一臉疑惑地看著我 問 什麼是素養所以我當然是讓她去網上查故事先在這暫停一下到現在為止我們還沒吃兩口早餐已經有將近25個網站在追蹤我而我全部只看了四個網站 我快快地說一下其餘的一天的狀況我去上班 看電子郵件我又登錄了幾個社群網站 寫部落格又看了幾個新聞 也在網上分享了一下還看了一些影片很普通的一天 正確來說是很迂腐的一天一天盡了 接近尾聲再來看看我的簡歷紅點多到爆灰點也成等比增加全部加起來 超過150個網站在追蹤我的個人資料絕大部份網站都沒經過我的同意 我看著這圖 簡直嚇壞了這沒什麼！ 就是我在網路上被跟蹤罷了！為什麼會發生這種事很簡單 這是很大的商機在這行最賺錢的幾家公司收入超過390億而且成人不是唯一被追蹤的對象就在我安裝Collusion的時候我也替我女兒裝了一個單單一個星期六早上 在網上逛了兩個多小時你現在看到的是她的Collusion簡歷 這是一個九歲大的女孩主要在瀏覽兒童的網站我的反應從嚇壞了到非常生氣我不再以科技先鋒或隱私維權者的身份說話我現在是以一個父親的角色說話想像一下在真實的世界如果有人以照相機及筆記本跟蹤我們的小孩記錄下他們的每一個舉動我告訴你 在座沒有一個父母能坐視不管我們會採取行動 不見得是很好的舉動 但我們一定會行動（笑聲）同樣的 我們也不能在此坐視不動這就是今天的現實狀況 隱私權不是一種選擇它不應該是我們為了上網所付上的代價我們的呼聲固然重要 行動更重要 今天我們要正式啟用Collusion你可以下載裝在火狐瀏覽器上來看看誰在網路上追蹤你跟著你在數字森林裡走來走去向前看 我們的聲音需要被重視因為我們不知道的事其實會傷害我們因為網路記憶是永遠的我們被窺視現在正是我們反窺視的時候 謝謝 （掌聲）
