Talk	en	zh-tw
gary_haugen_the_hidden_reason_for_poverty_the_world_needs_to_address_now	"To be honest, by personality, I'm just not much of a crier. But I think in my career that's been a good thing. I'm a civil rights lawyer, and I've seen some  horrible things in the world. I began my career working  police abuse cases in the United States. And then in 1994, I was sent to Rwanda to be the director of the U.N.'s  genocide investigation. It turns out that tears  just aren't much help when you're trying  to investigate a genocide. The things I had to see,  and feel and touch were pretty unspeakable. What I can tell you is this: that the Rwandan genocide was one of the world's greatest failures of simple compassion. That word, compassion, actually  comes from two Latin words: cum passio, which simply mean  ""to suffer with."" And the things that I saw and experienced in Rwanda as I got up close to human suffering, it did, in moments, move me to tears. But I just wish that I,  and the rest of the world, had been moved earlier. And not just to tears, but to actually stop the genocide. Now by contrast, I've also been involved with one of the world's greatest successes of compassion. And that's the fight against  global poverty. It's a cause that probably has involved all of us here. I don't know if your first introduction might have been choruses of ""We Are the World,"" or maybe the picture of a sponsored child on your refrigerator door, or maybe the birthday you donated for fresh water. I don't really remember what my first introduction to poverty was but I do remember the most jarring. It was when I met Venus — she's a mom from Zambia. She's got three kids and she's a widow. When I met her, she had walked about 12 miles in the only garments she owned, to come to the capital city and to share her story. She sat down with me for hours, just ushered me in to  the world of poverty. She described what it was like  when the coals on the cooking fire finally just went completely cold. When that last drop  of cooking oil finally ran out. When the last of the food,  despite her best efforts, ran out. She had to watch her youngest son, Peter, suffer from malnutrition, as his legs just slowly bowed  into uselessness. As his eyes grew cloudy and dim. And then as Peter finally grew cold. For over 50 years, stories like this have been moving us to compassion. We whose kids have plenty to eat. And we're moved not only  to care about global poverty, but to actually try to do our part  to stop the suffering. Now there's plenty of room for critique  that we haven't done enough, and what it is that we've done hasn't been effective enough, but the truth is this: The fight against global poverty is probably the broadest, longest running manifestation of the  human phenomenon of compassion in the history of our species. And so I'd like to share a pretty shattering insight that might forever change the way you think about that struggle. But first, let me begin with what you probably already know. Thirty-five years ago, when I would have been graduating from high school, they told us that 40,000 kids every day died because of poverty. That number, today, is now  down to 17,000. Way too many, of course, but it does mean that every year, there's eight million kids who don't have to die from poverty. Moreover, the number of  people in our world who are living in extreme poverty, which is defined as living off about a dollar and a quarter a day, that has fallen from 50 percent, to only 15 percent. This is massive progress, and this exceeds everybody's  expectations about what is possible. And I think you and I, I think, honestly, that we can  feel proud and encouraged to see the way that compassion  actually has the power to succeed in stopping  the suffering of millions. But here's the part that you  might not hear very much about. If you move that poverty mark just up to two dollars a day, it turns out that virtually  the same two billion people who were stuck in that harsh poverty when I was in high school, are still stuck there, 35 years later. So why, why are so many billions still stuck in such harsh poverty? Well, let's think about Venus for a moment. Now for decades, my wife and I have been moved by common compassion to sponsor kids, to fund microloans, to support generous levels of foreign aid. But until I had actually talked to Venus, I would have had no idea that  none of those approaches actually addressed why she had to watch her son die. ""We were doing fine,"" Venus told me, ""until Brutus started to cause trouble."" Now, Brutus is Venus' neighbor  and ""cause trouble"" is what happened the day after Venus' husband died, when Brutus just came and threw Venus and the kids out of the house, stole all their land, and robbed their market stall. You see, Venus was thrown  into destitution by violence. And then it occurred to me, of course, that none of my child sponsorships, none of the microloans, none of the traditional  anti-poverty programs were going to stop Brutus, because they weren't meant to. This became even more clear to me when I met Griselda. She's a marvelous young girl living in a very poor community in Guatemala. And one of the things we've learned over the years is that perhaps the most powerful thing that Griselda and her family can do to get Griselda and her family  out of poverty is to make sure that she goes to school. The experts call this the Girl Effect. But when we met Griselda,  she wasn't going to school. In fact, she was rarely ever  leaving her home. Days before we met her, while she was walking home from church with her family, in broad daylight, men from her community  just snatched her off the street, and violently raped her. See, Griselda had every opportunity to go to school, it just wasn't safe for her to get there. And Griselda's not the only one. Around the world, poor women and girls between the ages of 15 and 44, they are — when victims of  the everyday violence of domestic abuse and sexual violence — those two forms of violence account for more death and disability than malaria, than car accidents, than war combined. The truth is, the poor of our world are trapped in whole systems of violence. In South Asia, for instance, I could drive past this rice mill and see this man hoisting  these 100-pound sacks of rice upon his thin back. But I would have no idea, until later, that he was actually a slave, held by violence in that rice mill since I was in high school. Decades of anti-poverty programs right in his community were never able to rescue him or any of the hundred other slaves from the beatings and the rapes and the torture of violence inside the rice mill. In fact, half a century of  anti-poverty programs have left more poor people in slavery than in any other time in human history. Experts tell us that there's about 35 million people in slavery today. That's about the population  of the entire nation of Canada, where we're sitting today. This is why, over time, I have come to call this epidemic of violence the Locust Effect. Because in the lives of the poor, it just descends like a plague and it destroys everything. In fact, now when you survey very, very poor communities, residents will tell you that their greatest fear is violence. But notice the violence that they fear is not the violence of  genocide or the wars, it's everyday violence. So for me, as a lawyer, of course, my first reaction was to think, well, of course we've got to change all the laws. We've got to make all this violence against the poor illegal. But then I found out, it already is. The problem is not that  the poor don't get laws, it's that they don't get law enforcement. In the developing world, basic law enforcement systems are so broken that recently the U.N. issued  a report that found that ""most poor people live outside the protection of the law."" Now honestly, you and I have  just about no idea of what that would mean because we have no  first-hand experience of it. Functioning law enforcement for us  is just a total assumption. In fact, nothing expresses that assumption more clearly than three simple numbers: 9-1-1, which, of course, is the number for the emergency police operator here in Canada and in the United States, where the average response time  to a police 911 emergency call is about 10 minutes. So we take this just  completely for granted. But what if there was no  law enforcement to protect you? A woman in Oregon recently experienced what this would be like. She was home alone in her  dark house on a Saturday night, when a man started to tear  his way into her home. This was her worst nightmare, because this man had actually put her in the hospital from an assault just two weeks before. So terrified, she picks up that phone and does what any of us would do: She calls 911 — but only to learn that because  of budget cuts in her county, law enforcement wasn't available  on the weekends. Listen. Dispatcher: I don't have anybody  to send out there. Woman: OK Dispatcher: Um, obviously if he comes inside the residence and assaults you, can you ask him to go away? Or do you know if he is intoxicated or anything? Woman: I've already asked him. I've already told him I was calling you. He's broken in before, busted down my door, assaulted me. Dispatcher: Uh-huh. Woman: Um, yeah, so ... Dispatcher: Is there any way you could safely leave the residence? Woman: No, I can't, because he's blocking pretty much my only way out. Dispatcher: Well, the only thing I can do  is give you some advice, and call the sheriff's office tomorrow. Obviously, if he comes in and unfortunately has a weapon or is trying to cause you physical harm, that's a different story. You know, the sheriff's office doesn't work up there. I don't have anybody to send."" Gary Haugen: Tragically, the woman  inside that house was violently assaulted, choked and raped because this is what it means to live outside the rule of law. And this is where billions of our poorest live. What does that look like? In Bolivia, for example, if a man  sexually assaults a poor child, statistically, he's at greater risk of slipping in the shower and dying than he is of ever going  to jail for that crime. In South Asia, if you  enslave a poor person, you're at greater risk of being  struck by lightning than ever being sent  to jail for that crime. And so the epidemic of everyday  violence, it just rages on. And it devastates our efforts to try to help billions of people out of their two-dollar-a-day hell. Because the data just doesn't lie. It turns out that you can give  all manner of goods and services to the poor, but if you don't restrain the hands  of the violent bullies from taking it all away, you're going to be very disappointed in the long-term impact of your efforts. So you would think that the disintegration of basic law enforcement in the developing world would be a huge priority for the global fight against poverty. But it's not. Auditors of international assistance recently couldn't find even one percent of aid going  to protect the poor from the lawless chaos  of everyday violence. And honestly, when we do talk about  violence against the poor, sometimes it's in the weirdest of ways. A fresh water organization tells a heart-wrenching story of girls who are raped on the way to fetching water, and then celebrates the solution of a new well that drastically shortens their walk. End of story. But not a word about the rapists who are still right there in the community. If a young woman on one  of our college campuses was raped on her walk to the library, we would never celebrate the solution of moving the library closer to the dorm. And yet, for some reason, this is okay for poor people. Now the truth is, the traditional experts in economic development and poverty alleviation, they don't know how to fix this problem. And so what happens? They don't talk about it. But the more fundamental reason that law enforcement for the poor in the developing world is so neglected, is because the people inside the developing world, with money, don't need it. I was at the World Economic  Forum not long ago talking to corporate executives who have massive businesses in the developing world and I was just asking them, ""How do you guys protect all your people and property from all the violence?"" And they looked at each other,  and they said, practically in unison, ""We buy it."" Indeed, private security forces  in the developing world are now, four, five and seven times larger than the public police force. In Africa, the largest employer  on the continent now is private security. But see, the rich can pay for safety and can keep getting richer, but the poor can't pay for it and they're left totally unprotected and they keep getting thrown to the ground. This is a massive and scandalous outrage. And it doesn't have to be this way. Broken law enforcement can be fixed. Violence can be stopped. Almost all criminal justice systems, they start out broken and corrupt, but they can be transformed by fierce effort and commitment. The path forward is really pretty clear. Number one: We have to start making stopping violence indispensable  to the fight against poverty. In fact, any conversation about global poverty that doesn't include the problem  of violence must be deemed not serious. And secondly, we have to begin  to seriously invest resources and share expertise to support  the developing world as they fashion new,  public systems of justice, not private security, that give everybody a chance to be safe. These transformations  are actually possible and they're happening today. Recently, the Gates Foundation  funded a project in the second largest city  of the Philippines, where local advocates and local law enforcement were able to transform corrupt police and broken courts so drastically, that in just four short years, they were able to measurably reduce the commercial sexual violence  against poor kids by 79 percent. You know, from the hindsight of history, what's always most inexplicable and inexcusable are the simple failures of compassion. Because I think history convenes  a tribunal of our grandchildren and they just ask us, ""Grandma, Grandpa, where were you? Where were you, Grandpa, when  the Jews were fleeing Nazi Germany and were being rejected from our shores? Where were you? And Grandma, where were you when they were marching our Japanese-American neighbors off to internment camps? And Grandpa, where were you  when they were beating our African-American neighbors just because they were trying to register to vote?"" Likewise, when our grandchildren ask us, ""Grandma, Grandpa, where were you when two billion of the world's poorest were drowning in a lawless chaos of everyday violence?"" I hope we can say that we had compassion, that we raised our voice, and as a generation, we were moved to make the violence stop. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Really powerfully argued. Talk to us a bit about some of the things that have actually been happening to, for example, boost police training. How hard a process is that? GH: Well, one of the glorious  things that's starting to happen now is that the collapse of these systems and the consequences are becoming obvious. There's actually, now,  political will to do that. But it just requires now an investment of resources and transfer of expertise. There's a political will struggle  that's going to take place as well, but those are winnable fights, because we've done some examples around the world at International Justice Mission that are very encouraging. CA: So just tell us in one country, how much it costs to make a material difference  to police, for example — I know that's only one piece of it. GH: In Guatemala, for instance, we've started a project there with the local police  and court system, prosecutors, to retrain them so that they can  actually effectively bring these cases. And we've seen prosecutions against perpetrators of sexual violence increase by more than 1,000 percent. This project has been very modestly funded at about a million dollars a year, and the kind of bang  you can get for your buck in terms of leveraging a criminal justice system that could function if it were properly trained and motivated and led, and these countries,  especially a middle class that is seeing that there's  really no future with this total instability and total privatization of security I think there's an opportunity, a window for change. CA: But to make this happen, you have to look at each part in the chain — the police, who else? GH: So that's the thing  about law enforcement, it starts out with the police, they're the front end of the pipeline of justice, but they hand if off to the prosecutors, and the prosecutors  hand it off to the courts, and the survivors of violence  have to be supported by social services all the way through that. So you have to do an approach  that pulls that all together. In the past, there's been a little bit of training of the courts, but they get crappy evidence  from the police, or a little police intervention  that has to do with narcotics or terrorism but nothing to do with treating the common poor person with excellent law enforcement, so it's about pulling that all together, and you can actually have people in very poor communities experience law enforcement like us, which is imperfect in our  own experience, for sure, but boy, is it a great thing to sense that you can call 911 and maybe someone will protect you. CA: Gary, I think you've done  a spectacular job of bringing this to the world's attention in your book and right here today. Thanks so much. Gary Haugen. (Applause)"	老實說，依我的個性而言，我不是個愛哭泣嚷嚷的人，但我想在我的工作上那是一件好事。我是一個民權律師，而我見過世界上一些非常可怕的事情，我的職涯始於處理美國的警察濫權案件，然後1994年，我被派到盧安達做聯合國的盧安達大屠殺調查團團長，結果發現當你試著調查一件大屠殺事件的時候眼淚沒什麼用。那些我必須看到、感覺和觸碰的東西，都讓人難以言說。 我能告訴你的是：盧安達大屠殺是人類世界同情心數一數二的大失敗。同情心（compassion）這個字其實源自兩個拉丁語的字：「cum passio」，直接的意思就是「和什麼人一起受苦」而那些我在盧安達看到和經歷的事物，讓我感受到人們承受的苦難，那些時候，讓我流淚了。但我希望我自己，和整個世界。能早一點對此有同情心，不只是流淚，而是阻止這場慘案。 相對地我也經歷了同情心所帶來最好的成果，也就是全球性的對抗貧窮的運動。這場運動可能跟我們所有人都有關係。我不知道你們第一次了解到貧窮問題，是因為〈We Are the World〉這首合唱曲，或是你家冰箱門上貼的資助兒童的照片，或是你生日時捐助了新鮮的飲用水。我不太記得什麼讓我第一次了解貧窮問題，不過我記得最難過的一次， 那是我遇到維納斯的時候。她是來自尚比亞的母親，是一位有著三個孩子的寡婦，當我看到她，她走了19多公里的路她穿著她唯一一套衣服到首都來敘說她的故事。她坐了好幾個小時引領我進入貧窮的世界。她所描述貧窮的景況，像是：燒爐火的煤炭最終熄滅冷卻了。烹調的油用盡最後一滴。盡最大的努力撙節還是用盡了所有的食物。她不得不看著最小的兒子彼得患上營養不良，他的腿慢慢蜷曲而無法行走，他的眼睛變得迷矇灰暗，最後他的身體變得冰冷。 過去五十年，像這樣的故事激起我們的同情心餵飽了很多孩子，我們不只關心世界貧窮，也試著盡力阻止它，現在有許多批判的空間，顯示我們做得還不夠。而且我們做的事情不夠有效。不過事實是對抗貧窮的活動大概是人們的同情心有史以來發揮影響最廣泛的活動。我想分享一個驚人的觀察，可能會從此改變你對於對抗貧窮的想法。 不過首先，我還是從大家知道的一些事情開始。35年前，我將從高中畢業的時候每天有四萬個孩童死於貧窮。現在的數字已經降到一萬七千人。當然這數字還是太多，不過確實代表著每一年有八百萬個孩童不再死於貧窮。還有，在這世界上每天生活費只有1.25美元被定義為赤貧的人們，從50%下降到只有15%，這是極大的進展，超乎所有人的預期。而且說實話，我認為你我都可以感到自豪且受到鼓勵。看到惻隱之心發揮力量，成功阻止數百萬人受苦。 但是你大概不太知道，如果把貧窮的標準上移到一天2美元，世界上幾乎仍然有20億人處於極度貧窮的狀態，和我高中時一樣在35年之後。 為什麼有這麼多的幾十億人仍深陷於極度貧窮？讓我們再回想一下維納斯，幾十年來，我妻子和我出於惻隱之心，資助孩童、借出微型貸款，慷慨地援助國外活動，不過若不是到我跟維納斯談過後，我並不知道那些方式都沒辦法改變她看著她兒子死去。「我們本來過得還好，」維納斯告訴我「直到布魯圖斯開始找麻煩。」布魯圖斯是維納斯的鄰居，找麻煩是指維納斯的丈夫死後第二天，布魯圖斯就過來把維納斯和孩子趕出房子。偷走他們的土地，搶走他們的市場攤位。維納斯的貧困是暴力所招致的。 然後我突然意識到，我對兒童的資助、微型貸款，傳統的反貧窮方案，沒有一樣能夠阻止布魯圖斯這種人，沒有一樣是用來阻止暴力的。 事情在我遇到葛莉塞達變得更清楚她是一個了不起的女孩，生活在瓜地馬拉一個貧窮社區裡。我們過去所了解到的，能夠使葛莉塞達和她的家人，脫離貧窮最有效的方法之一可能是讓她能夠去上學。專家們把這叫做「女孩效應」不過當我們遇到葛莉塞達，她並沒有去上學，事實上，她幾乎沒離開家裡。 在我們遇見她的幾天前，當她和家人從教堂回家，在光天化日之下她社區裡的男人將她從街道上拖走，而且強暴了她。葛莉塞達是可以去上學的，但到學校的路卻是如此的危險。葛莉塞達不是唯一一個。世界上，貧窮的女人和女孩，在15到44歲之間，她們是家庭暴力與性暴力等，日常暴力的受害者。而這兩種暴力所造成的死亡和殘疾人數，超過瘧疾、車禍和戰爭的總和。所以事實是，我們這世界的貧窮，是由整個暴力系統所造成的牢籠。 舉例而言，在南亞，我開車經過碾米廠看到一個男人把100磅的袋子們，背在瘦弱的背上。但我直到後來才知道他是個奴隸，從我上高中的時候，他就為碾米廠的暴力所控制。數十年來在他生活的社區，許多對抗貧窮的方案，都無法將幾百個奴隸中的一個，從碾米廠的毒打、強姦和酷刑中，解救出來。事實上，半個世紀以來的脫貧方案，讓更多窮人淪為奴隸的數量，比人類有史以來其他時候的數量還要多。 專家說現在大約有三千五百萬人是奴隸相當於加拿大整個國家的人口，也是我們今天所在之地。這就是為什麼，我開始稱這種傳染病一樣的暴力行為，蝗蟲效應。因為在窮人的生活裡，它就像瘟疫一樣降臨，摧毀了一切。事實上，當你調查非常、非常貧窮的社區時，居民會告訴你，他們最大的恐懼就是暴力。注意，他們害怕的暴力並不是戰爭那種滅族大屠殺，而是日常暴力。 所以，身為律師，我第一個反應是想我們必須要改變法律我們必須把這些欺負窮人的暴力視為非法但我隨即發現，我們已經有這樣的法律了。問題不是那些窮人沒有法條可用，問題是沒有執法。在那些開發中國家，執法系統如此腐敗，最近聯合國發表報告，稱「最貧窮的人們生活在法律保護傘之外」。說實話，你我無法想見，這代表什麼意思，因為我們沒有第一手的經歷。正常執法只是我們理所當然的假設。事實上，三個簡單的數字最能傳達我們的想當然，「911」代表在加拿大和美國，緊急聯絡警方的號碼，911緊急電話的平均回應時間大約是10分鐘。所以我們視為理所當然。 但是如果沒有執法單位來保護你呢？一名在奧勒崗的女子經歷了類似的事情。週六晚上她一個人在她昏暗的房子裡，一名男子試圖撬門而入，這是她最可怕的夢魘。因為兩個禮拜前，這名男子才襲擊她，讓她住了院。驚慌失措下，她做了我們都會做的事：打給911。但卻發現她的所在郡，因為預算撙節週末沒有執法單位。「聽著，」接線人員說：「我沒辦法派人員過去」女子說：「OK」接線人員說，「如果他要進到你家襲擊你，」「可以請他離開嗎？」「或者，你知道他是否醉了？」女子：「我已經請他離開了，而且告訴他我打了911」「以前他闖入過我家，攻擊了我」接線人員：「呃…」女子：「呃，那…」接線人員：「你有沒有什麼方法可以離開那房子？」女子：「不，我沒辦法，他堵住唯一的出路」接線人員：「好吧，我唯一能做的是給你一些建議。」「明天我會通知警長辦公室。」「當然，如果他闖入而且有武器，」「還試圖造成你的身體傷害，那就是另一回事了。」「你知道，今天警長辦公室休息，」「我無法派出任何人。」 不幸地，這名女子就在自己房子裡被暴力攻擊、緊扼，及強暴。這是生活在法律保護之外的情形，也是那數十億窮人生活的環境。那種生活是什麼樣子呢？在玻利維亞，如果一個男人強暴一個窮小孩，以統計數字來看，他被送進監獄的機率，比洗澡滑倒死掉還低。在南亞奴役一個人，被送到監獄的機率比被雷打到還低。這些瘟疫般的日常暴力仍然肆虐，摧毀我們努力去幫助的數十億人脫離一天2美元地獄的嘗試。因為資料不會說謊。結果你可以提供窮人好的食物和服務，但是，如果你無法抑止把東西從他們手中奪走的暴力霸凌，你將會對長久以來努力的影響非常失望。 所以你會想，在開發中國家基本執法的崩解是對抗貧窮，首要解決的問題，不過，事實上並沒有國際援助的審計員最近發現，對於保護窮人免於無法無天的日常暴力的援助連百分之一都沒有。說實話，當我們談論對付窮人的暴力行為，用的方式有時候頗為怪異。提供新鮮水資源的組織，說了一個令人痛心的故事：一個女孩在取水的路上被強暴，然後還是慶祝新井的落成，大大縮短了取水的路程。故事到這裡就結束了。但是完全沒有提及，那些強暴者，還待在那個社區裡。如果一位我們大學校園裡的年輕女性，在去圖書館的路上被強暴，我們絕不會為了將圖書館遷至離宿舍較近的地方而慶祝。但是，為什麼這種事，卻可以發生在窮人身上？ 事實是，在經濟發展和消除貧窮領域，傳統的專家們，不知道如何解決這個問題。所以怎麼著？他們就不提了。不過更根本的原因是，能保護窮人的執法在開發中世界是如此被忽視，因為開發中世界裡的有錢人，不需要這些。不久前我在世界經濟論壇對開發中國家的大規模企業主管演講。我問他們：「你們如何保護所有人和財產免於暴力？」他們看著彼此，幾乎異口同聲地說：「我們用買的。」 的確，開發中國家裡的私人保全，現在大約是公共警力的四、五或七倍，在非洲，現在最大的公司就是一家做私人保全的。你看，富人可以付錢給保全，而且愈來愈有錢，但窮人卻無法付錢，就完全沒有保障。他們持續被重重摔在地上， 這真是巨大而醜惡的暴行。但它可以不要是這樣的。破敗的執法可以被修復，暴力可以被阻止，幾乎所有的犯罪司法系統，都是從破漏腐敗中開始，不過它們可以透過激烈的努力和決心轉化。 前方的路的非常清晰。第一：我們必須要開始讓終止暴力成為對抗貧窮問題不可或缺的一環。事實上，所有攸關全球貧窮的對談，如果沒有討論暴力問題，就不算認真討論。 第二，我們必須認真投入資源和專業知識，支持開發中國家來建立新的司法系統，而非私人保全。提供每個人安全的機會，這些轉變真的是可行的，而且現在正在發生。最近，蓋茲基金會資助了在菲律賓第二大城的一個計畫，讓當地的倡導者和執法單位得以大力地改變腐敗的警察和法庭。在短短四年內對於貧窮兒童的商業性暴力估計有效減少79%。 事後從歷史看來最令人費解且最不可原諒的，往往是失去了惻隱之心。因為我認為歷史會讓我們的孫子評斷而且他們會問我們：「爺爺、奶奶，您當時在哪裡？」「爺爺，當猶太人逃離德國，」「被拒絕疪護的時候，」「你當時在哪裡？」「奶奶，當他們將我們的日裔美籍鄰居，」「強制送往集中營的時候，您在哪裡？」「爺爺，當我們的非裔美國人鄰居，」「因為想投票而被毆打的時候，」「您在哪裡？」就像這樣，我們的孫子也會問：「奶奶、爺爺，當數十億最貧困的人們，」「因為缺乏法律保障而遭受日常暴力的時候，」「您在哪裡？」我希望我們可以說，我們發揮了同情心，登高一呼作為這個世代，我們終止了暴力。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲） Chris Anderson: 非常有力的演說，告訴我們一些正在拓展的行動吧，例如加強警察的訓練，這過程有多困難？講者：現在最樂觀的事情是這些系統的腐敗已經浮上檯面了。政治力量可以解決，但需要資源和專業知識轉化的投入，政治上也會發生一些奮戰，不過是可以打贏的戰爭。因為我們在世界上已經有一些案例，像「國際公義使命團（IJM）」就很振奮人心。 CA：告訴我們，一個國家要花多少成本，才能在警察系統做到有形的改變，雖然我知道這只是一小部分。講者：舉例來說，在瓜地馬拉，我們開展了一項計畫，訓練當地的警察、司法系統、檢察官，提升他們處理這些事情的有效執行能力，我們看到針對性暴力的起訴，增加了十倍之多，這項計畫的資金算是很節制，一年大概需要一百萬美金，但這類投資非常值得。若有適當地訓練、激勵和領導，能將犯罪司法系統建立起來，發揮功能。而且這些國家，尤其是中產階級，因為不安穩的情勢和完全私人化的保全而看不到未來的那些地方，現在有了一個轉變的機會。 CA：但要落實這些，你需要注意每個環節警察、……還有呢？講者：執法從警方開始，他們在司法的最前線，將罪犯送交至檢察官手中，檢察官把他們交給法庭，而暴力倖存者需要社會服務的支持，所以你必須有個方法把這些事情串在一起。過去，法庭的訓練很少，他們又從警察那邊拿到爛證據，或是有優良的執法系統，有一些警力介入毒品或恐怖主義，但是卻對普通的窮人無所作為。所以重點是一切結合在一起，然後讓極度貧窮的社區的人們也像我們一樣有執法單位的保護。雖然在我們的經驗裡，他們並不完美。但是，你可以試著體會，打911，就有人來保護你，是一件很棒的事。 CA：嘉理，我覺得你在書上和在這裡喚起了全世界的注意，你做了一件了不起的工作， 非常謝謝你。 侯嘉理。 （掌聲）
