Talk	en	zh-tw
george_takei_why_i_love_a_country_that_once_betrayed_me	"I'm a veteran of the starship Enterprise. I soared through the galaxy driving a huge starship with a crew made up of people from all over this world, many different races, many different cultures, many different heritages, all working together, and our mission was to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations, to boldly go where no one has gone before. Well — (Applause) — I am the grandson of immigrants from Japan who went to America, boldly going to a strange new world, seeking new opportunities. My mother was born in Sacramento, California. My father was a San Franciscan. They met and married in Los Angeles, and I was born there. I was four years old when Pearl Harbor was bombed on December 7, 1941 by Japan, and overnight, the world was plunged into a world war. America suddenly was swept up by hysteria. Japanese-Americans, American citizens of Japanese ancestry, were looked on with suspicion and fear and with outright hatred simply because we happened to look like the people that bombed Pearl Harbor. And the hysteria grew and grew until in February 1942, the president of the United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, ordered all Japanese-Americans on the West Coast of America to be summarily rounded up with no charges, with no trial, with no due process. Due process, this is a core pillar of our justice system. That all disappeared. We were to be rounded up and imprisoned in 10 barbed-wire prison camps in some of the most desolate places in America: the blistering hot desert of Arizona, the sultry swamps of Arkansas, the wastelands of Wyoming, Idaho, Utah, Colorado, and two of the most desolate places in California. On April 20th, I celebrated my fifth birthday, and just a few weeks after my birthday, my parents got my younger brother, my baby sister and me up very early one morning, and they dressed us hurriedly. My brother and I were in the living room looking out the front window, and we saw two soldiers marching up our driveway. They carried bayonets on their rifles. They stomped up the front porch and banged on the door. My father answered it, and the soldiers ordered us out of our home. My father gave my brother and me small luggages to carry, and we walked out and stood on the driveway waiting for our mother to come out, and when my mother finally came out, she had our baby sister in one arm, a huge duffel bag in the other, and tears were streaming down both her cheeks. I will never be able to forget that scene. It is burned into my memory. We were taken from our home and loaded on to train cars with other Japanese-American families. There were guards stationed at both ends of each car, as if we were criminals. We were taken two thirds of the way across the country, rocking on that train for four days and three nights, to the swamps of Arkansas. I still remember the barbed wire fence that confined me. I remember the tall sentry tower with the machine guns pointed at us. I remember the searchlight that followed me when I made the night runs from my barrack to the latrine. But to five-year-old me, I thought it was kind of nice that they'd lit the way for me to pee. I was a child, too young to understand the circumstances of my being there. Children are amazingly adaptable. What would be grotesquely abnormal became my normality in the prisoner of war camps. It became routine for me to line up three times a day to eat lousy food in a noisy mess hall. It became normal for me to go with my father to bathe in a mass shower. Being in a prison, a barbed-wire prison camp, became my normality. When the war ended, we were released, and given a one-way ticket to anywhere in the United States. My parents decided to go back home to Los Angeles, but Los Angeles was not a welcoming place. We were penniless. Everything had been taken from us, and the hostility was intense. Our first home was on Skid Row in the lowest part of our city, living with derelicts, drunkards and crazy people, the stench of urine all over, on the street, in the alley, in the hallway. It was a horrible experience, and for us kids, it was terrorizing. I remember once a drunkard came staggering down, fell down right in front of us, and threw up. My baby sister said, ""Mama, let's go back home,"" because behind barbed wires was for us home. My parents worked hard to get back on their feet. We had lost everything. They were at the middle of their lives and starting all over. They worked their fingers to the bone, and ultimately they were able to get the capital together to buy a three-bedroom home in a nice neighborhood. And I was a teenager, and I became very curious about my childhood imprisonment. I had read civics books that told me about the ideals of American democracy. All men are created equal, we have an inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and I couldn't quite make that fit with what I knew to be my childhood imprisonment. I read history books, and I couldn't find anything about it. And so I engaged my father after dinner in long, sometimes heated conversations. We had many, many conversations like that, and what I got from them was my father's wisdom. He was the one that suffered the most under those conditions of imprisonment, and yet he understood American democracy. He told me that our democracy is a people's democracy, and it can be as great as the people can be, but it is also as fallible as people are. He told me that American democracy is vitally dependent on good people who cherish the ideals of our system and actively engage in the process of making our democracy work. And he took me to a campaign headquarters — the governor of Illinois was running for the presidency — and introduced me to American electoral politics. And he also told me about young Japanese-Americans during the Second World War. When Pearl Harbor was bombed, young Japanese-Americans, like all young Americans, rushed to their draft board to volunteer to fight for our country. That act of patriotism was answered with a slap in the face. We were denied service, and categorized as enemy non-alien. It was outrageous to be called an enemy when you're volunteering to fight for your country, but that was compounded with the word ""non-alien,"" which is a word that means ""citizen"" in the negative. They even took the word ""citizen"" away from us, and imprisoned them for a whole year. And then the government realized that there's a wartime manpower shortage, and as suddenly as they'd rounded us up, they opened up the military for service by young Japanese-Americans. It was totally irrational, but the amazing thing, the astounding thing, is that thousands of young Japanese-American men and women again went from behind those barbed-wire fences, put on the same uniform as that of our guards, leaving their families in imprisonment, to fight for this country. They said that they were going to fight not only to get their families out from behind those barbed-wire fences, but because they cherished the very ideal of what our government stands for, should stand for, and that was being abrogated by what was being done. All men are created equal. And they went to fight for this country. They were put into a segregated all Japanese-American unit and sent to the battlefields of Europe, and they threw themselves into it. They fought with amazing, incredible courage and valor. They were sent out on the most dangerous missions and they sustained the highest combat casualty rate of any unit proportionally. There is one battle that illustrates that. It was a battle for the Gothic Line. The Germans were embedded in this mountain hillside, rocky hillside, in impregnable caves, and three allied battalions had been pounding away at it for six months, and they were stalemated. The 442nd was called in to add to the fight, but the men of the 442nd came up with a unique but dangerous idea: The backside of the mountain was a sheer rock cliff. The Germans thought an attack from the backside would be impossible. The men of the 442nd decided to do the impossible. On a dark, moonless night, they began scaling that rock wall, a drop of more than 1,000 feet, in full combat gear. They climbed all night long on that sheer cliff. In the darkness, some lost their handhold or their footing and they fell to their deaths in the ravine below. They all fell silently. Not a single one cried out, so as not to give their position away. The men climbed for eight hours straight, and those who made it to the top stayed there until the first break of light, and as soon as light broke, they attacked. The Germans were surprised, and they took the hill and broke the Gothic Line. A six-month stalemate was broken by the 442nd in 32 minutes. It was an amazing act, and when the war ended, the 442nd returned to the United States as the most decorated unit of the entire Second World War. They were greeted back on the White House Lawn by President Truman, who said to them, ""You fought not only the enemy but prejudice, and you won."" They are my heroes. They clung to their belief in the shining ideals of this country, and they proved that being an American is not just for some people, that race is not how we define being an American. They expanded what it means to be an American, including Japanese-Americans that were feared and suspected and hated. They were change agents, and they left for me a legacy. They are my heroes and my father is my hero, who understood democracy and guided me through it. They gave me a legacy, and with that legacy comes a responsibility, and I am dedicated to making my country an even better America, to making our government an even truer democracy, and because of the heroes that I have and the struggles that we've gone through, I can stand before you as a gay Japanese-American, but even more than that, I am a proud American. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我是進取號星艦的一名老兵。我在星系中遨遊，駕駛著一艘巨大的星艦。艦隊裡有來自世界各地的人們，有許多不同的種族和文化、許多不同的傳統，融合得如此緊密。我們的使命是探索新奇的世界，搜尋新生命和新文明，勇敢地前往沒人去過的地方。 好。（掌聲）我是日本移民的第三代，我的祖父母來到美國，勇敢地踏進一個新奇的世界，尋找新的機會。我母親出生在加州的薩克拉門托市，我父親是舊金山人。他們在洛杉磯相遇相知又相愛結婚，我也是在那兒出生的。 我四歲的時候爆發了由日本轟炸珍珠港的珍珠港事件，那天是 1941 年 12 月 7 號。一夜之間，全世界投入了一場世界大戰。美國突然捲入了歇斯底里的狂熱。日裔美國人和有日本血統的美國公民被人用懷疑和恐懼，甚至是赤裸裸的仇恨的眼光看待，只是因為我們正好看起來像偷襲珍珠港的壞人。這場狂熱越演越烈。直到 1942 年 2 月，美國總統佛蘭克林•羅斯福命令所有的美國西海岸的日裔美國人匆忙地集中在一起，沒有指控、沒有審判也沒有合法訴訟程序。合法訴訟程序這個我們法律系统的支柱蕩然無存。我們被趕成一團囚禁在有十個帶刺鐵絲網的監獄營裡，就在美國最荒蕪人煙的地方：亞利桑那州炙熱的沙漠、阿肯薩斯州悶熱的沼澤、懷歐明州、愛德華州、猶他州和科羅拉多州的荒地，以及加州最荒漠人煙的兩個地方。 4 月 20 日，我慶祝了我五歲的生日。我生日的幾個星期以後，我父母把我弟弟我和還在繈褓裡的妹妹早早地叫醒，他們匆匆地給我們穿上衣服。我弟弟和我在客廳透過窗戶望外看。我們看到兩個士兵走到家門前的車道。他們的步槍上有刺刀，他們踩著沉重的步子來到前門廊，然後使勁地敲門。我父親去開了門，士兵們命令我們馬上離開我們的家。我父親讓我和弟弟提小件行李。然後我們走出了家門，在停車道站著等我母親出來。我母親終於出來時，她一手抱著我的小妹妹，一手提著一個大旅行袋，淚水從她的臉頰流下。我永遠也不會忘記那一幕，它深深地烙上了我的記憶。 我們被趕出家門，然後上了火車車廂，和別的在美國的日本家庭待在一起。守衛駐守在每個車廂的兩頭，好像我們是犯人一樣。我們被迫旅行了全美三分之二的距離，在火車上顛簸了四天三夜來到阿肯薩斯的沼澤地。我還記得監禁我的鐵絲網圍欄。我記得高高的哨兵塔上對著我們的機關槍。我記得當我晚上起來從我的營房跑到廁所的時候沿途照著我的探照燈。但是對於五歲的我來說，我以為上廁所時他們為我照明是出於好心。我當時只是個孩子，那時我還太小不懂我的處境。 孩子們有驚人的適應力。在別的情況下可能是荒誕不經的不正常現象，在戰爭集中營裡卻成為了我的常理。我每天的例行工作是排三次隊，在嘈雜髒亂的大廳裡吃很難吃的飯。和我爸爸一起去大澡堂裡洗澡成為很正常的事。住在鐵絲網的監獄裡成為一種常態。 當戰爭結束的時候我們被釋放了，並拿到了一張單程票能去美國的任何地方。我父母決定回家，回洛杉磯。但是洛杉磯不是個很歡迎我們的地方。我們身無分文，我們所有的東西都被已經奪走了，而且當時的敵對情緒強烈。我們的第一個家在貧民窟，在我們城市最落魄的地方，和無家可歸的流浪漢、醉鬼和瘋子為鄰。到處都彌漫著尿的臭味，在大街上、在小巷子裡、在過道上。這是很一種可怕的經歷。對我們孩子來說，這是恐怖的經歷。我記得有一次一個醉鬼搖搖晃晃地向我們走來，正好在我們面前摔倒，還吐了一地。我小妹說：「媽媽，我們回家吧。」因為那鐵絲網裡的地方，對我們來說就是我們的家。 我父母辛辛苦苦地工作，為了重新站起來。我們失去了一切，他們已是中年人了，還要重新開始。他們賣命工作，終於他們能買得起一個好地段中有三房的房子。我是一個十幾歲的少年，我對童年的監禁經歷非常好奇。我讀了有關公民權利的書，書上闡明了美國民主的理想典範。人生來平等，我們有對生命、自由和追求幸福的不可被剝奪的權利。我卻不能使其所說和我童年時代囚禁的經歷有所吻合。我讀歷史書，我無法找到有關那段歷史的講述。晚飯後，我纏著爸爸進行長時間、有時是熱烈的討論。我們進行過很多很多對話。我得到的是父親的智慧。在那種監禁的條件下他吃的苦頭最多，然而他理解美國民主。他告訴我，我們的民主是人民的民主。所以它和人民一樣偉大，也和人民一樣容易犯錯誤。他告訴我美國民主極度依賴好人，那些珍視我們制度理念的好人，積極參與這樣的過程，讓我們的民主正常運行。他把我帶到選舉總部，當時伊利諾州長在競選總統，他向我介紹了美國選舉政治。他告訴我年輕的日裔美國人在第二次世界大戰的故事。 當珍珠港被炸後，年輕的日裔美國人像所有的美國年輕人一樣，奔赴到招兵站自願為我們國家戰鬥。那樣的愛國行動卻如同被以賞了一記耳光回應。我們參軍被拒，並被歸類為敵對的非外國人。當你自願為祖國戰鬥卻被叫做敵人是讓你不堪忍受的。但是這個詞卻和「非外國人」一起用，解釋為否定意義上的「公民」。他們甚至把「公民」這個詞從我們這兒奪走，把我們監禁了一年。 然後政府意識到戰爭時期人力短缺。正如他們突然把我們關起來一樣，他們讓年輕的日裔美國人為軍隊服務。這完全是不可理喻的。這件令人吃驚的事、這件令人震驚的事，就是成百上千的日裔美國人，男人和女人，又重新從鐵絲網的後邊走出來穿上與我們的看守一樣的制服，離開還在被監禁的家人去為祖國而戰。 他們說他們奔赴前線戰鬥，不僅是為了把他們的家人從鐵絲網後解救出來，而且還是因為他們珍惜我們的政府代表的價值和應該代表的價值。那個價值被發生的事情所破壞。 人生來平等，他們去為這個國家戰鬥，他們被編進完全由日裔美國人組成的連隊，被派到歐洲戰場。他們全力以赴投入戰鬥，用不可想像的勇氣和勇敢進行戰鬥。他們被派去執行最危險的使命，在所有的連隊中，按照人數來算他們有最高的死亡率。 有一場戰役就是個很好的例子，那是一場爭奪哥德防線的戰役。德國人佈滿在這個山坡上，多岩石的山坡上，在堅不可摧的山洞裡。同盟國三個營的士兵六個月以來一直被打退。戰役陷入了僵局。第 442 營被派來參加戰役。但是第 442 營的士兵想到一個獨特而又危險的想法來：山的背面是陡峭的懸崖，德國人一定會認為從背面進攻是不可能的。442 兵團的士兵決定做件不可能的事。在一個漆黑沒月光的夜晚，他們爬上了懸崖峭壁，垂直距離有一千多英尺。他們全副武裝，在那個懸崖峭壁上爬了一整夜。在黑暗中，有些人手沒有抓住，或者腳沒有站穩，結果他們摔死了，跌入深谷中。他們靜靜地跌下去。沒有一個人喊出聲來，這樣他們就不會暴露他們的方位。這些人整整爬了八小時，那些最後爬到山頂的人靜靜地等在那兒，直到天亮。天一亮，他們就進攻了。德國人驚訝極了，他們拿下了那座山攻破了哥德防線。六個月的僵局被 442 兵團用 32 分鐘打破了。 這是一個令人欽佩之舉。戰爭結束的時候，442 兵團返回美國。他們是整個第二次世界大戰中榮獲勳章最多的兵團。他們在白宮的草坪受到了杜魯門總統的歡迎。他對他們說：「你們不僅與敵人戰鬥，你們也和偏見鬥爭，你們終於贏了。」 他們是我的英雄。他們堅持自己的信仰，信仰這個國家閃光的理想。他們證明成為一個美國人不僅僅是某些人的事情。我們不該以種族來定義誰才是美國人。他們擴展了當美國人的含義，包括日裔美國人，他們曾被人害怕過、懷疑過，甚至憎惡過。他們是變化劑。他們留給我精神財富。他們是我的英雄，我的父親是我的英雄。他理解民主，並引導我理解它。他們留給我精神財富，而伴隨這這筆財富是責任。我致力於讓我們的國家變成一個更好的美國。讓我們我們的政府變得更具有真實的民主。正因為我心目中的這些英雄，以及我們經歷過的奮鬥歷程，我可以站在各位跟前，以美國日裔同性戀的身份，但不止如此，我還是個驕傲的美國人。 非常感謝你們。 （掌聲）
