Talk	en	zh-tw
gian_giudice_why_our_universe_might_exist_on_a_knife_edge	"So last year, on the Fourth of July, experiments at the Large Hadron Collider discovered the Higgs boson. It was a historical day. There's no doubt that from now on, the Fourth of July will be remembered not as the day of the Declaration of Independence, but as the day of the discovery of the Higgs boson. Well, at least, here at CERN. But for me, the biggest surprise of that day was that there was no big surprise. In the eye of a theoretical physicist, the Higgs boson is a clever explanation of how some elementary particles gain mass, but it seems a fairly unsatisfactory and incomplete solution. Too many questions are left unanswered. The Higgs boson does not share the beauty, the symmetry, the elegance, of the rest of the elementary particle world. For this reason, the majority of theoretical physicists believe that the Higgs boson could not be the full story. We were expecting new particles and new phenomena accompanying the Higgs boson. Instead, so far, the measurements coming from the LHC show no signs of new particles or unexpected phenomena. Of course, the verdict is not definitive. In 2015, the LHC will almost double the energy of the colliding protons, and these more powerful collisions will allow us to explore further the particle world, and we will certainly learn much more. But for the moment, since we have found no evidence for new phenomena, let us suppose that the particles that we know today, including the Higgs boson, are the only elementary particles in nature, even at energies much larger than what we have explored so far. Let's see where this hypothesis is going to lead us. We will find a surprising and intriguing result about our universe, and to explain my point, let me first tell you what the Higgs is about, and to do so, we have to go back to one tenth of a billionth of a second after the Big Bang. And according to the Higgs theory, at that instant, a dramatic event took place in the universe. Space-time underwent a phase transition. It was something very similar to the phase transition that occurs when water turns into ice below zero degrees. But in our case, the phase transition is not a change in the way the molecules are arranged inside the material, but is about a change of the very fabric of space-time. During this phase transition, empty space became filled with a substance that we now call Higgs field. And this substance may seem invisible to us, but it has a physical reality. It surrounds us all the time, just like the air we breathe in this room. And some elementary particles interact with this substance, gaining energy in the process. And this intrinsic energy is what we call the mass of a particle, and by discovering the Higgs boson, the LHC has conclusively proved that this substance is real, because it is the stuff the Higgs bosons are made of. And this, in a nutshell, is the essence of the Higgs story. But this story is far more interesting than that. By studying the Higgs theory, theoretical physicists discovered, not through an experiment but with the power of mathematics, that the Higgs field does not necessarily exist only in the form that we observe today. Just like matter can exist as liquid or solid, so the Higgs field, the substance that fills all space-time, could exist in two states. Besides the known Higgs state, there could be a second state in which the Higgs field is billions and billions times denser than what we observe today, and the mere existence of another state of the Higgs field poses a potential problem. This is because, according to the laws of quantum mechanics, it is possible to have transitions between two states, even in the presence of an energy barrier separating the two states, and the phenomenon is called, quite appropriately, quantum tunneling. Because of quantum tunneling, I could disappear from this room and reappear in the next room, practically penetrating the wall. But don't expect me to actually perform the trick in front of your eyes, because the probability for me to penetrate the wall is ridiculously small. You would have to wait a really long time before it happens, but believe me, quantum tunneling is a real phenomenon, and it has been observed in many systems. For instance, the tunnel diode, a component used in electronics, works thanks to the wonders of quantum tunneling. But let's go back to the Higgs field. If the ultra-dense Higgs state existed, then, because of quantum tunneling, a bubble of this state could suddenly appear in a certain place of the universe at a certain time, and it is analogous to what happens when you boil water. Bubbles of vapor form inside the water, then they expand, turning liquid into gas. In the same way, a bubble of the ultra-dense Higgs state could come into existence because of quantum tunneling. The bubble would then expand at the speed of light, invading all space, and turning the Higgs field from the familiar state into a new state. Is this a problem? Yes, it's a big a problem. We may not realize it in ordinary life, but the intensity of the Higgs field is critical for the structure of matter. If the Higgs field were only a few times more intense, we would see atoms shrinking, neutrons decaying inside atomic nuclei, nuclei disintegrating, and hydrogen would be the only possible chemical element in the universe. And the Higgs field, in the ultra-dense Higgs state, is not just a few times more intense than today, but billions of times, and if space-time were filled by this Higgs state, all atomic matter would collapse. No molecular structures would be possible, no life. So, I wonder, is it possible that in the future, the Higgs field will undergo a phase transition and, through quantum tunneling, will be transformed into this nasty, ultra-dense state? In other words, I ask myself, what is the fate of the Higgs field in our universe? And the crucial ingredient necessary to answer this question is the Higgs boson mass. And experiments at the LHC found that the mass of the Higgs boson is about 126 GeV. This is tiny when expressed in familiar units, because it's equal to something like 10 to the minus 22 grams, but it is large in particle physics units, because it is equal to the weight of an entire molecule of a DNA constituent. So armed with this information from the LHC, together with some colleagues here at CERN, we computed the probability that our universe could quantum tunnel into the ultra-dense Higgs state, and we found a very intriguing result. Our calculations showed that the measured value of the Higgs boson mass is very special. It has just the right value to keep the universe hanging in an unstable situation. The Higgs field is in a wobbly configuration that has lasted so far but that will eventually collapse. So according to these calculations, we are like campers who accidentally set their tent at the edge of a cliff. And eventually, the Higgs field will undergo a phase transition and matter will collapse into itself. So is this how humanity is going to disappear? I don't think so. Our calculation shows that quantum tunneling of the Higgs field is not likely to occur in the next 10 to the 100 years, and this is a very long time. It's even longer than the time it takes for Italy to form a stable government. (Laughter) Even so, we will be long gone by then. In about five billion years, our sun will become a red giant, as large as the Earth's orbit, and our Earth will be kaput, and in a thousand billion years, if dark energy keeps on fueling space expansion at the present rate, you will not even be able to see as far as your toes, because everything around you expands at a rate faster than the speed of light. So it is really unlikely that we will be around to see the Higgs field collapse. But the reason why I am interested in the transition of the Higgs field is because I want to address the question, why is the Higgs boson mass so special? Why is it just right to keep the universe at the edge of a phase transition? Theoretical physicists always ask ""why"" questions. More than how a phenomenon works, theoretical physicists are always interested in why a phenomenon works in the way it works. We think that this these ""why"" questions can give us clues about the fundamental principles of nature. And indeed, a possible answer to my question opens up new universes, literally. It has been speculated that our universe is only a bubble in a soapy multiverse made out of a multitude of bubbles, and each bubble is a different universe with different fundamental constants and different physical laws. And in this context, you can only talk about the probability of finding a certain value of the Higgs mass. Then the key to the mystery could lie in the statistical properties of the multiverse. It would be something like what happens with sand dunes on a beach. In principle, you could imagine to find sand dunes of any slope angle in a beach, and yet, the slope angles of sand dunes are typically around 30, 35 degrees. And the reason is simple: because wind builds up the sand, gravity makes it fall. As a result, the vast majority of sand dunes have slope angles around the critical value, near to collapse. And something similar could happen for the Higgs boson mass in the multiverse. In the majority of bubble universes, the Higgs mass could be around the critical value, near to a cosmic collapse of the Higgs field, because of two competing effects, just as in the case of sand. My story does not have an end, because we still don't know the end of the story. This is science in progress, and to solve the mystery, we need more data, and hopefully, the LHC will soon add new clues to this story. Just one number, the Higgs boson mass, and yet, out of this number we learn so much. I started from a hypothesis, that the known particles are all there is in the universe, even beyond the domain explored so far. From this, we discovered that the Higgs field that permeates space-time may be standing on a knife edge, ready for cosmic collapse, and we discovered that this may be a hint that our universe is only a grain of sand in a giant beach, the multiverse. But I don't know if my hypothesis is right. That's how physics works: A single measurement can put us on the road to a new understanding of the universe or it can send us down a blind alley. But whichever it turns out to be, there is one thing I'm sure of: The journey will be full of surprises. Thank you. (Applause)"	"去年7月4號在大型強子對撞機(LHC)的實驗裡希格斯玻色子被發現了那是歷史性的一刻無庸置疑地,從現在開始7月4號不再被認為是美國獨立紀念日而是發現希格斯玻色子的重要日子至少對歐洲核子研究組織是這樣的 但是對我而言,那天最大的驚喜就是沒有太大的驚喜在物理理論學家的眼中希格斯玻子是一個很絕妙的解釋它解釋了一些基本粒子如何獲得質量但是這看來就是個不盡滿意而且不夠完整的解答太多問題都無法回答希格斯玻色子不夠美麗不夠均稱,不夠優雅不足以和基本粒子世界相比因此,大多數理論學家不相信希格斯玻色子就是所有的真相我們希望新的粒子和新的現象能隨著希格斯玻色子出現但目前從LHC對撞機得來的測量卻沒有顯示什麼新的粒子和新的現象 當然,目前的論斷並不是絕對的2015年,LHC對撞機將會加倍質子撞擊的能量這些更強烈的撞擊能讓我們進一步了探索粒子世界我們一定能從中知道更多 但當下我們還沒找到新現象的證據讓我們假設我們今天知道的粒子包含希格斯玻色子是自然界中僅有的基本粒子即使它們能爆發的能量比我們今天所知的多上更多我們來看看這個假設會帶來什麼事我們會發現宇宙驚奇又迷人的結果在我繼續解釋之前先讓我說明希格斯玻色子是什麼要說明的話,我們必須回到宇宙大爆炸之後的百億分之一秒根據希格斯理論在那瞬間一件非常戲劇化的事件在宇宙中發生時空經歷轉變期這個轉變期和水在零度以下結冰的過程非常像但這個例子裡轉變期不是分子在物質裡的重新排列而是時空結構的改變 在這段轉變期,空間充滿物質就是我們說的希格斯場這種物質我們可能看不見但卻擁有物理性質它隨時環繞我們就像我們在這房間內呼吸的空氣一樣有些基本粒子和這種物質互動從過程中獲得能量這種內在的能量就是我們今天說的粒子質量而藉由發現希格斯玻色子LHC對撞機證實這種物質是真的因為希格斯玻色子正由這種物質組成簡單來說,這就是希格斯故事的梗概 但更有趣的在後頭研究希格斯理論的同時理論學家發現並非經由實驗,而只是數學演算他們發現希格斯場並不是只以我們今日發現的形式存在就像物質可以有液態和固態兩種狀態所以希格斯場也就是那填滿時空的物質可以存在於兩種狀態下除了已知的希格斯場之外希格斯場還可能比現在所知的高出幾十億密度存在光是另一種希格斯場的可能存在就帶來了潛在的問題因為根據量子力學定律兩種狀態之間的轉變是有可能的即使兩個狀態之間有能量差間隔詞如其名,這個現象被稱為量子穿隧因為量子穿隧效應我可以從這間房間消失再從另外一個房間出現簡單來說就是穿越牆壁但別期待我會真的在你們面前表演因為讓我能穿越牆壁的機率十分渺小在這發生之前你們得等上好一陣子但相信我量子穿隧是一個真實存在的現象且已經被很多機制發現例如,穿隧兩極真空管一個在電子學中常用的組件因為量子穿隧效應而被製造出來 但讓我們再回到希格斯場如果超濃度的希格斯場存在那,因為量子穿隧效應在這狀態下的泡泡可以突然出現在宇宙中的特定時空就和我們煮滾水的時候一樣蒸氣泡泡從水中蒸發然後膨脹,從液態變成氣態同理,一顆泡泡在超濃度的希格斯場可以因為量子穿隧效應而出現泡泡會以光速膨脹,佔領空間將希格斯場從熟悉帶到全新的狀態 這是個問題嗎?是,很大的問題在日常生活中可能難以理解但希格斯場的密度對於物質構造非常重要如果希格斯場密度只是比一般高一點我們就會看到原子核中原子收縮中子衰變,核子解體氫會變成宇宙中唯一可能存在的化學元素而超濃度的希格斯場並不是只比今天的希格斯場密度高上幾倍而是幾十億倍如果時空被這個希格斯場填滿所有原子物質都會崩解沒有任何分子結構能夠存在沒有生命 所以我想未來希格斯場有可能會經歷轉變期和量子穿隧效應進入這個恐怖,高濃度的狀態嗎?換句話說,我問自己希格斯場在宇宙中的命運是什麼?而回答這個問題的關鍵在於希格斯玻色子的質量在一次LHC的實驗裡發現希格斯玻色子的質量是1260億電子伏特用我們熟悉的單位表示的話其實不多差不多是10的負22次方公克但是對粒子單位來說很大它就等於是整個DNA分子的重量 有了從LHC得到的資料再加上從歐洲核子研究組織得到的我們試著計算宇宙經過量子穿隧進入高濃度希格斯場的可能性結果非常有趣我們的計算顯示希格斯玻色子的質量非常特別它的質量剛剛好可以讓宇宙處在一個不安定的狀態希格斯場的結構至今為止仍處於搖擺不定的狀態但最終還是會崩塌根據我們的計算我們就像露營的人不小心將帳篷搭在懸崖邊最後,希格斯場會經歷轉變期然後所有的物質會自我毀滅 所以人類文明就是這樣消失的嗎?我不這樣覺得我們的計算顯示希格斯場的量子穿隧在接下來的10年到100年不太可能會發生這是一段很長的時間甚至比義大利成立穩定的政府還要長 即使發生了,我們也已經不在了在約50億年後太陽會變成紅巨星和地球繞日的軌跡一樣大地球會毀掉1兆年之後如果黑暗能量還在供給太空依現在的速度膨脹你連到腳趾頭這麼短的距離都看不到因為你身邊的事物都在以比光速還要快的速度膨脹所以要我們看到希格斯場膨脹真的不怎麼可能 我對希格斯場轉換感興趣的原因是因為我想問:為何希格斯玻色子的質量如此特別?為何它剛剛好讓宇宙處於轉變的邊緣?理論學家永遠喜歡問""為什麼""不只是想要知道現象的成因理論學家更感興趣的是為何一個現象會以現在這個方式運作我們覺得這些""為什麼""可以給我們線索找尋自然的基本定律而能解答我問題的可能答案開啟了整個宇宙真的是字面上的開啟一直有人懷疑我們的宇宙只是眾多宇宙泡沫堆中的一個泡泡眾多宇宙裡有數以萬計的泡泡每個泡泡都是一個不同的宇宙擁有不同的內容物還有不同的定律在這個假設下我們只能討論確定希格斯質量的可能性那麼解開謎團的關鍵就在這眾多宇宙中的統計特性它可能類似沙灘上的沙丘基本上你可以想像在沙灘上的任何坡度找到沙丘但是沙丘的坡度通常都在30到35度左右原因很簡單因為風堆起沙子,重力讓沙子掉下來所以大部分的沙丘都擁有剛好接近崩塌的斜度類似的事情也可能發生於眾多宇宙中的希格斯玻色子在眾多宇宙的泡泡中希格斯的質量可能也在希格斯場接近崩塌的邊緣就像在沙丘的例子裡有兩個互相抗衡的效應一樣 我的故事不會結束因為我們還不知道故事的結局科學一直在前進為了解開謎團,我們需要更多數據希望LHC不久後又會為這個故事提供更多新線索光是發現希格斯玻色子的質量就讓我們知道這麼多我一開始假設已知的粒子都在宇宙之中甚至超出我們所知的宇宙從這我們發現能跨越時空的希格斯場可能處在刀鋒隨時可能引起宇宙崩塌我們發現這可能提醒我們我們的宇宙只是眾多宇宙沙灘中的一顆沙粒 但我並不知道我的假設正不正確這就是物理學的運作方式一套測量可將我們推向認識宇宙的新路也可以送我們進死胡同但不論結果如何有一件事我很確定:這趟旅程將會充滿驚喜 謝謝"
