Talk	en	zh-tw
gill_hicks_i_survived_a_terrorist_attack_here_s_what_i_learned	"I could never have imagined that a 19-year-old suicide bomber would actually teach me a valuable lesson. But he did. He taught me to never presume anything about anyone you don't know. On a Thursday morning in July 2005, the bomber and I, unknowingly, boarded the same train carriage at the same time, standing, apparently, just feet apart. I didn't see him. Actually, I didn't see anyone. You know not to look at anyone on the Tube, but I guess he saw me. I guess he looked at all of us, as his hand hovered over the detonation switch. I've often wondered: What was he thinking? Especially in those final seconds. I know it wasn't personal. He didn't set out to kill or maim me, Gill Hicks. I mean — he didn't know me. No. Instead, he gave me an unwarranted and an unwanted label. I had become the enemy. To him, I was the ""other,"" the ""them,"" as opposed to ""us."" The label ""enemy"" allowed him to dehumanize us. It allowed him to push that button. And he wasn't selective. Twenty-six precious lives were taken in my carriage alone, and I was almost one of them. In the time it takes to draw a breath, we were plunged into a darkness so immense that it was almost tangible; what I imagine wading through tar might be like. We didn't know we were the enemy. We were just a bunch of commuters who, minutes earlier, had followed the Tube etiquette: no direct eye contact, no talking and absolutely no conversation. But in the lifting of the darkness, we were reaching out. We were helping each other. We were calling out our names, a little bit like a roll call, waiting for responses. ""I'm Gill. I'm here. I'm alive. OK."" ""I'm Gill. Here. Alive. OK."" I didn't know Alison. But I listened for her check-ins every few minutes. I didn't know Richard. But it mattered to me that he survived. All I shared with them was my first name. They didn't know that I was a head of a department at the Design Council. And here is my beloved briefcase, also rescued from that morning. They didn't know that I published architecture and design journals, that I was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, that I wore black — still do — that I smoked cigarillos. I don't smoke cigarillos anymore. I drank gin and I watched TED Talks, of course, never dreaming that one day I would be standing, balancing on prosthetic legs, giving a talk. I was a young Australian woman doing extraordinary things in London. And I wasn't ready for that all to end. I was so determined to survive that I used my scarf to tie tourniquets around the tops of my legs, and I just shut everything and everyone out, to focus, to listen to myself, to be guided by instinct alone. I lowered my breathing rate. I elevated my thighs. I held myself upright and I fought the urge to close my eyes. I held on for almost an hour, an hour to contemplate the whole of my life up until this point. Perhaps I should have done more. Perhaps I could have lived more, seen more. Maybe I should have gone running, dancing, taken up yoga. But my priority and my focus was always my work. I lived to work. Who I was on my business card mattered to me. But it didn't matter down in that tunnel. By the time I felt that first touch from one of my rescuers, I was unable to speak, unable to say even a small word, like ""Gill."" I surrendered my body to them. I had done all I possibly could, and now I was in their hands. I understood just who and what humanity really is, when I first saw the ID tag that was given to me when I was admitted to hospital. And it read: ""One unknown estimated female."" One unknown estimated female. Those four words were my gift. What they told me very clearly was that my life was saved, purely because I was a human being. Difference of any kind made no difference to the extraordinary lengths that the rescuers were prepared to go to save my life, to save as many unknowns as they could, and putting their own lives at risk. To them, it didn't matter if I was rich or poor, the color of my skin, whether I was male or female, my sexual orientation, who I voted for, whether I was educated, if I had a faith or no faith at all. Nothing mattered other than I was a precious human life. I see myself as a living fact. I am proof that unconditional love and respect can not only save, but it can transform lives. Here is a wonderful image of one of my rescuers, Andy, and I taken just last year. Ten years after the event, and here we are, arm in arm. Throughout all the chaos, my hand was held tightly. My face was stroked gently. What did I feel? I felt loved. What's shielded me from hatred and wanting retribution, what's given me the courage to say: this ends with me is love. I was loved. I believe the potential for widespread positive change is absolutely enormous because I know what we're capable of. I know the brilliance of humanity. So this leaves me with some pretty big things to ponder and some questions for us all to consider: Is what unites us not far greater than what can ever divide? Does it have to take a tragedy or a disaster for us to feel deeply connected as one species, as human beings? And when will we embrace the wisdom of our era to rise above mere tolerance and move to an acceptance for all who are only a label until we know them? Thank you. (Applause)"	我從未想過一個 19 歲的自殺式炸彈客可以讓我學到甚麼有價值的一課。但他做到了。他教會我，永遠不要對你不認識的人有任何的預設立場。 在 2005 年七月的一個星期二早上，炸彈客跟我，不期而遇地，同時踏上了同一台火車車廂，我們離彼此才幾步遠。但我卻沒看到他。老實說，我根本沒在看人。大家都知道不要在車廂盯著別人看，但我猜，他有看到我。我猜，他是緊握著手中的引爆器看著我們全部的人。我常在想：他當時是在想什麼？尤其是最後的那幾秒。 我知道這無關私人恩怨。他不是預謀要殺掉我，或讓我重殘。我的意思是——他根本不認識吉爾席克絲，我這個人，根本不認識。然而，他卻給我貼了個標籤，一個我不想要而且莫須有的標籤。我變成了「敵人」。對他而言，我是「外人」、「他們」，跟「我們」是對立的。那個「敵人」的標籤，剝奪掉了我們的人性。逼他按下了按鈕。他別無選擇。同車廂的 26 條生命就這樣被帶走了，我差點成為其中一個。 就在那幾秒鐘，我們被送進了一個幾乎觸手就可及的無底深淵；我得想像，奮力求生後會是怎樣的世界。我們不知道，我們怎麼會被歸類成敵人。我們只是一群早起遵守著車廂禮儀的上班族：彼此沒有眼神交會、沒有說話，更沒有交談。 但當悲劇發生後，我們伸出了雙手，彼此幫忙協助。我們呼喊著我們的名字，有點像在點名，並等待救援的回應。 「我是吉兒，我在這，我還活著......好。」 「我是吉兒，我在這，活著......好。」 我不認識艾利森。但我每隔幾分鐘都會聽到他的呼救。我不認識理查。但他能活著對我意義重大。 我能分享給他們的就只有我的名字。他們不知道我就是 Design Council 的一個部門老大。這一個是我最愛的公事包，那個早上，它救了我一命。他們不知道我有發行建築與設計的雜誌，我也是一位皇家文藝學會的成員，我喜歡穿黑色的——現在仍是——我抽小雪茄，但現在不抽了。我喝琴酒，我看 TED 的演講，當然，從來沒有夢想過會有這麼一天......我會跛腳著......站在這個舞台上演講。 我是一位在倫敦表現出眾的澳洲年輕女士。我還沒有準備好就這樣結束生命。我努力地求生，我用頭巾包紮我的大腿，並向每個人大聲求救，專注、傾聽著我自己的內心聲音。我降低我的呼吸速度。抬高我的大腿。讓自己腰背挺直對抗著我即將閉起來的眼睛。 我大概堅持了一個小時，在那一個小時裡，我回顧了我的這一生，想著.....也許我應該要做更多的事，也許我可以活得更久、看得更多。也許我應該要去跑跑步、跳跳舞、做瑜珈。但我最在意最關注的卻都是我的工作。我為工作而活，名片上的我比我自己還重要。但在那個隧道裡，我什麼都不是。 當我第一時間與救援人員接觸時，我說不出話來。甚至自己的名字「吉兒」都喊不出來。我把我的身體託付給他們。我已經竭盡所能的存活下來，接下來就只能靠他們了。 我這時才明白，人性的真正意義。就在我被送進醫院，第一次看到我的 ID 識別卡的時後。上面是這麼寫的：「一位身份不明，無法判斷的女士」「一位身份不明，無法判斷的女士」這行字是我的禮物。它清楚地告訴了我，我被救活了，只因為我是個人類。任何的差異不再是距離，不管有多大的差異，救援人員隨時待命準備把我救活。他們把自己的生命至於生死之外，竭盡所能地救活每一個人。對他們而言，不管我多有錢或多貧窮、不管我的膚色、不管我是男是女、我的性別傾向、我投票給誰、我在哪受教育、不管我有沒有宗教信仰，一切都不重要了，只因我是一個珍貴的人命。 我把自己當作一個活生生的例子我可以證明無條件的愛與尊重不僅可以救人，還可以改變一個人的命運。這裡有一張很棒的照片，我的救命恩人安迪和我，去年拍的照。事發後的十年，我們肩並肩地走在一起。 經歷了這場紛亂，我的手握的更緊了。我的臉滿溢著慈祥。我感受到甚麼？我感受到被愛。而讓我卸下仇恨與復仇的怨念並給我勇氣站出來說：「到我這裡就結束吧！」的是....愛，我是被愛的。 我相信正向能量改變的潛力是無窮大的，因為我了解人類的能力，我了解人性的智慧。這讓我想起一些很重要的事情，讓大家一起來省思：比起分化，還有甚麼事情比我們團結還更重要的？一定非得要等悲劇或災害的發生，才能讓我們感受到深藏在人類社會中人性的光輝嗎？我們何時才能擁抱我們這一世代的智慧，體現出我們對所有人的寬容並原諒所有的人，讓大家知道，其實我們人類只有一個標籤？ 感謝各位！ （掌聲）
