Talk	en	zh-tw
gonzalo_vilarino_how_argentina_s_blind_soccer_team_became_champions	"I opened a blind man's head. I didn't make him think or reflect — I cracked his head open, literally. We were walking with him holding onto my shoulder, I miscalculated how much space there was between us, and I knocked him into a gate. (Laughter) Five stitches in his forehead. At that moment, I felt like the worst teacher in the world. I really didn't know how to apologize. Luckily, El Pulga is one of those people who takes things quite well. And to this day, he says that I was the coach who left the most important mark on his career. (Laughter) The truth is, when I started working at the institute for the blind, I was surprised by a lot of things. A lot of the things they did, I never imagined they could: they swam, did exercise, played cards. They drank mate, and could pour it without burning themselves in the process. But when I saw them playing soccer — that was amazing. They had a dirt field, rusty goalposts and broken nets. The blind who attended the institute would play their games there, just like I did at a field near my house. But they played without being able to see. The ball made a sound so they could locate it. They had a guide behind the rival team's goal to know where to kick the ball. And they used eye masks. There were guys who could still see a little, and they wore eye masks so everyone was equal. When I was more at ease with them, I asked for a mask myself. I put it on and tried to play. I had played soccer all my life. This is where it got even more amazing: within two seconds, I didn't know where I was standing. I had studied physical education because I loved high performance. I started working at the institute by chance. My other job was with the Argentinian National Rowing Team, and I felt that was my thing. Here, everything was twice as hard. I'll never forget the first day I did the warm-up with the team. I lined them up in front of me — I used to do that with the rowing team — and I said, ""OK, everyone bend down,"" going like this. When I looked up, two guys were seated, three were lying down and others were squatting. (Laughter) How could I do here the same things I was doing there? It took me a while. I started looking for tools to learn from them, from the teachers who worked with them. I learned I couldn't explain a play on a chalkboard like a coach does, but I could use a plastic tray and some bottle caps so they could follow me by way of touch. I also learned they could run on a track if I ran with them, holding a rope. So we started looking for volunteers to help us run with them. I was enjoying it, and finding purpose and meaning in what we were doing. It was hard at first, it was uncomfortable, but I decided to overcome the discomfort. And there came a time when it became the most fascinating job I'd ever had. I think that's when I wondered: Why couldn't we be a high-performance team as well? Of course, one thing was missing: I needed to find out what they wanted, the real protagonists of this story. Three hours of training, playing soccer on that field, were not going to be enough. We would have to train differently. We started to train harder, and the results were great; they asked for more. I came to understand that they, too, wondered why they couldn't do high-performance. When we felt ready, we knocked at CENARD's door. CENARD is the National Center for High-Performance Sports here in Argentina. It was hard to get them to hear what we had to say. But it was considerably more difficult to get the other athletes training there to consider us their equals. In fact, they would let us use the field only when no other teams were using it. And we were known as ""the blind ones."" Not everyone knew exactly what we were doing there. The 2006 World Championship was a turning point in the team's history. It was held in Buenos Aires for the first time. It was our chance to show everyone what we had been doing all that time. We made it to the finals. We were growing as a team. It was us against Brazil in the finals. They were the best team in the tournament. They won every game by a landslide. Hardly anyone believed we could win that game. Hardly anyone — except for us. During pre-game meetings, in the locker room, during each warm-up, it smelled of victory. I swear that smell exists. I smelled it several times with the team, but I remember it in particular, the day before we played that final. The Argentine Football Association had opened their doors to us. We were training at AFA, where Verón, Higuain and Messi trained. For the first time ever, we felt like a true national team. At 7:30pm, the day before the game, we were in the lounge discussing strategy, and a waiter knocks on the door, interrupting our conversation. He suggested we go to church. He came to invite us to church. I tried to get rid of him, saying it wasn't a good time, that we better leave it for another day. He kept insisting, asking me to please let him take the guys to church, because that day, a pastor who performed miracles would be there. I was slightly afraid to ask what type of miracles he meant, and he replied nonchalantly, ""Coach, let me take the team to the church, and when we return, I guarantee that half of them will be able to see."" (Laughter) Some of the guys laughed, but imagine being a blind person and someone says that to you. I didn't know what to say. I said nothing; it was an awkward silence. I didn't want to make him feel bad, because he truly believed this could happen. One of the players saved me, when he stood up and confidently said, ""Juan,"" — that was the kid's name — Gonza already told you it's not the best time to go to church. Besides, let me make this clear: if we go to that church, and I end up being able to see when we return, I will beat you so hard if I can't play tomorrow."" (Laughter) (Applause) Juan left, laughing in resignation, and we continued with our pregame talk. That night when I went to sleep, I began to dream about the next day's game, imagining what could happen, how we would play. And that's when I noticed that smell of victory I mentioned a while ago. And it's because at that moment, I thought: if the other players had the same desire as Diego going into the game, it was impossible for us not to win. The next day was going to be wonderful. We got up at 9am, the game was at 7pm, and we were already eager to play. We left AFA, and the bus was full of flags that people had given to us. We were talking about the game, and we could hear people honking and cheering, ""Go Murciélagos! Today's the day! The final challenge!"" The guys asked me, ""Do they know us? Do they know we're playing?"" Some people followed the bus to CENARD. We arrived and found an amazing scene. In the corridor leading from the locker room to the game field, I was walking with Silvio, who was holding onto my shoulder, so I could guide him. Fortunately, there were no gates along the way. (Laughter) When we reached the field, he asked me about everything. He didn't want to miss a single detail. He said, ""Tell me what you see, tell me who's playing the drums."" I tried to explain what was happening with as much detail as possible. I told him, ""The stands are packed, a lot of people couldn't get in, there are blue and white balloons all over the field, they're opening a giant Argentine flag that covers the entire grandstand."" Suddenly, he cuts me off and says, ""Do you see a flag that says 'San Pedro'?"" That's the city where he lives. I started looking into the stands and I spotted a little white flag with lettering done in black spray paint, that read: ""Silvio, your family and all of San Pedro are here."" I told him that and he replied, ""That's my mom, tell me where she is, I want to I wave at her."" I pointed him toward the flag and showed him with his arm where they were sitting, and he waved his arms in that direction. About 20 or 30 people stood up and gave him an ovation. When that happened, I saw how his face changed, how moved he was. It was moving for me, too; two seconds later, I had a lump in my throat. It was strange — I felt both the excitement of what was happening, and the anger and the anguish that he could not see it. A few days later when I told him what I had experienced, he tried to reassure me, saying, ""Gonza, don't feel bad, I could see them. Differently, but I swear to you that I saw them all."" The game started. We could not fail; it was the final. The audience was quiet, like here, because in soccer for the blind, the public has to be quiet so the players can hear the ball. They're only allowed to cheer when the game is over. And when there were eight minutes to go, the crowd did all the cheering they hadn't done in the first 32 minutes. When pigeon-toed Silvio nailed the ball at an angle, they cheered with all their heart, in an incredible way. Today, if you go to CENARD, you'll see a huge poster on the door, with a photo of our team, Los Murciélagos. They're a model national team, everyone in CENARD knows who they are, and after having won two World Championships and two Paralympic medals, no one doubts they are high-performance athletes. (Applause) (Applause ends) I was lucky to train this team for 10 years, first as a trainer and later as their coach. I feel that they've given me much more than what I've given them. Last year, they asked me to coach another national team, Power Soccer. It's a national team of young men who play soccer in wheelchairs. They use motorized wheelchairs that they drive with a joystick, because they don't have enough strength in their arms to use conventional chairs. They added a bumper to the chair, a safeguard that protects their feet, while allowing them to kick the ball. It's the first time that, instead of being the spectators, they're now the main characters. It's the first time their parents, friends and siblings can see them play. For me, it's a new challenge, with the same discomfort, insecurity, and fear I had when I started working with the blind. But I approach it all from a more experienced position. That's why from day one, I treat them as athletes on the field, and off the field, I try to put myself in their shoes and behave without prejudice, because treating them naturally feels best to them. Both teams play soccer; something once unthinkable for them. They had to adapt the rules to do so. And both teams broke the same rule — the one that said they couldn't play soccer. When you see them play, you see competition, not disability. The problem starts when the game is over, and they leave the field. Then they step in to play our game, in a society whose rules don't really take them into account or care for them. I learned from sports that disability greatly depends on the rules of the game. I believe that if we change some of the rules of our game, we can make life a little easier for them. We all know there are people with disabilities; we see them daily. But by having no direct contact with them, we're not aware of the problems they face every day, like how hard it is for them to get on a bus, find a job, take the subway or cross the street. It's true that there is an increasing social responsibility regarding the inclusion of people with disabilities. But I think it's still not enough. I think change needs to come from every one of us. First, by leaving behind our indifference toward the disabled, and then by respecting the rules that do take them into account. They are few, but they do exist. I cracked a blind man's head open — El Pulga's head. I can assure you these two teams opened mine as well. They taught me that above all, you have to get out there and play every game in this beautiful tournament that we call life. Thank you. (Applause)"	我曾開過一位盲人的頭，我沒有讓他思考或做出反應，我真的開了他的頭。我扶著他的肩膀並肩行走，我卻沒估算到彼此之間的距離，就這麼害他撞到了門。 （笑聲） 害他額頭縫了五針。那時，我覺得自己是世上最差的老師。我不知道該如何道歉。幸好，El Pulga是個寬宏大量的人。到現在，他說我是他職業生涯中留下最重要印記的教練。 （笑聲） 事實上，自我開始在這個盲人機構工作以來，遇到很多讓我驚訝的事。很多他們所做的事，我至今都難以想像，他們會游泳、運動、玩牌。他們一起喝酒，還幫彼此斟酒。並且過程中不會傷害到自己。 但當我看見他們在踢足球，那實在是太讓人驚訝了。他們有滿是泥土的場地、鏽蝕的門柱及破掉的門網。盲人機構的人都會在這裡進行活動，就像我在我家旁邊的運動場運動一樣。但是他們卻能在看不見的情況下運動。他們依據球的聲音去判斷位置，在對手的球門後有個指引讓他們知道該往哪個方向進攻。他們戴上眼罩進行比賽，因為有些人並不是全盲，他們可以看到些微景象所以戴上眼罩，讓比賽能公平進行的。 當我與他們更加熟識後，我也要了一個眼罩，我戴上眼罩，也想一起踢球。我一生都在踢球。出乎我意料之外的是：我兩秒後就完全搞不清方向了。因為熱愛高水平競技，我曾鑽研體能教育。 某種機緣下，我開始在這機構工作。我的另一份工作是在阿根廷國家賽艇隊，我感覺那才是我的本職。但在這裡，做甚麼都加倍困難。我永遠忘不了，我第一次帶隊熱身的情況。我讓他們在我面前站成一排，就像我在賽艇隊那樣執行的，我對他們說：「每個人像我這樣彎下腰。」然後我抬起頭來，看見有兩個人坐在地上，另外三個人躺至著，而剩下的全部人都蹲著。 （笑聲） 我要怎麼在這裡執行賽艇隊的帶隊方式？這花了我一些時間。我開始找尋一些方法，從他們身上學習，從其他老師的身上學習。我發現我不能像普通教練一樣利用黑板解釋，但我可以用一些塑膠盤跟瓶蓋。這樣他們可以通過觸碰來跟隨我，我也發現我可以拉著繩子引導他們，讓他們跟隨我的軌跡移動。所以我開始尋找志工，協助我一起帶著他們跑。 我很享受這些過程，並且找到了做這些事的目的及意義。起初非常的困難且不適應，但我決定去克服這些不適。而這段時光，成為了我人生中最著迷的一段時間。 我在思考著：為什麼我們不能成為一支高水平的隊伍？當然，我忘了一點：我必須知道他們想要什麼，他們才是故事的主角。在球場上三小時的足球訓練，是完全不足的。我們必須換一種訓練方法。 我開始用用較嚴格的訓練，而成效非常好，他們都要求要更多訓練。我了解到，他們也想知道為什麼他們沒辦法達到更高水平當我們準備好了，我們敲響了CENARD的門。CENARD是國家高水平競技中心，位於阿根廷。要讓他們瞭解我們的意思很困難。但實際上，要讓那裡運動員考慮我們提出的平等又比我們設想的更高難度，只有當沒人使用場地時，他們才允許我們使用場地。而且我們被他們稱作「盲人們」。並非每個人都知道我們在那裡做甚麼。 2006年的世界錦標賽是球隊歷史的轉捩點。這是第一次在布宜諾斯艾利斯舉辦比賽。這是我們第一次有機會向人們展現我們一直以來的努力。我們晉級到了決賽。我們成長為一個團結的隊伍。 決賽是我們對抗巴西，他們是錦標賽內最強的隊伍。他們壓倒性地擊敗其他隊伍。除了我們之外，幾乎沒人相信我們能夠取勝。 在賽前會議中，更衣室裡，每個人還在熱身，就散發出了勝利的氣息。我相信那種氣息真的存在。我曾經在隊伍中聞到過幾次，但令我印象特別深的，是在決賽的前一天。阿根廷足球協會為我們開了一扇門， 我們當時在足球協會裡進行了訓練，那裡也是貝隆、伊瓜因還有梅西平常訓練的地方。那是第一次，我感覺我們像是一支國家代表隊我感覺我們像是一支國家代表隊。比賽前一天晚上七點半，我們坐在休息室討論戰術，一位小孩敲了我們的門，打斷了我們的談話。他建議我們去教堂。他邀請我們去教堂。我試著擺脫他，告訴他現在時機不適當，我們改天再去比較好。他很堅持，求我讓他帶球員們去教堂，因為那天，一位能創造奇蹟的牧師在那邊。 我有些膽怯，不太敢問他是哪種奇蹟，他一派輕鬆地回答：「教練，讓我帶隊伍去教堂吧。而我保證，當我們回來的時候會有一半的人重見光明。」 （笑聲） 一些隊員笑了，可以想像的到，作為一個盲人卻有人說能讓你恢復視力的感覺。我無言以對。我保持沉默，尷尬的氣氛瀰漫著。我不想讓他感覺難堪，因為他真的相信奇蹟會發生。 一位球員化解了這危機，他站起來自信地說：「Juan。」是那個孩子的名字「Gonza已經告訴你現在不是和去教堂。」「還有，讓我說的清楚一點：如果我們去了教堂，回來後視力還是沒恢復那我會狠狠扁你一頓，這樣我明天也不能比賽了。」 （笑聲） （掌聲） Juan離開以後，笑聲也消失了，我們繼續賽前討論。那晚我躺在床上，我開始想像明天比賽的情況，想像可能發生的事，以及我們如何應對。我就是那在時聞到勝利的氣息。我剛剛提到過。就是因為那個瞬間，我想：如果其他球員也是一樣渴望勝利，像是Diego踏入比賽中，那麼我們不可能會輸。 第二天將會是非常精彩的，我們早上九點起床，而比賽在晚上七點，我們早已迫不及待。我們離開足球協會，巴士上插滿了人們祝賀的旗幟。我們當時正在討論比賽，而我們能聽到人們的尖叫及歡呼，「上吧Murciélagos！就是今天！最後的挑戰！」 一些隊員問我：「他們認識我們嗎？知道我們是踢足球的嗎？」一些人跟隨巴士來到阿根廷高水平競技運動中心。我們抵達後發現了一個驚奇的景象。從更衣室到比賽場地的走廊上，我當時跟Silvio一起走，這樣他才能抓著我的肩膀，讓我引導他們。幸好，一路上沒有任何門。 （笑聲） 當我們抵達會場，他要我告訴他球場裡的一切。他不想錯過任何一個小細節。他說 : 「告訴我你看到了甚麼，告訴我誰在打鼓。」 我盡可能地告訴他場內發生的細節。我跟他說：「場內人潮水洩不通了，很多人擠不進來。藍色跟白色的氣球充斥在場內，一大面阿根廷的旗幟覆蓋在看台上。」 他突然打斷我．說道：「你看見一面寫著San Pedro的旗幟嗎？」那是他居住的城市。我開始搜尋看台，然後我注意到了一面小白旗，用黑色噴漆寫著：「Silvio，你的家人和整座San Pedro都在這裡。」 我告訴他，他回答道：「那是我媽，告訴我她在哪個方向，我想跟她揮手。」我向他指出了旗幟的位置，然後我看見他將手臂舉向那個方向，朝著那邊用力揮手。大約有二三十個人站起來為他喝采。看到這一幕，我看見他的表情變化，他是多麼的感動，而這一幕也感動了我。兩秒後，我感到哽咽。這種感覺很古怪，我又激昂但又很苦惱氣憤他看不到眼前的一切 幾天後當我告訴他當時我的感覺，他試著安撫我，說道：「Ginza，別難過，我看的到他們。雖然形式不一樣，但我保證我看的到他們。」 比賽開始了。我們絕不能輸，這是決賽了。觀眾們屏息，就像現在這演講廳一樣安靜，因為這是盲人足球比賽，觀眾必須保持安靜，球員才聽得到球的聲音。他們只有在比賽結束時才能歡呼。 當比賽只剩8分鐘，觀眾們把前32分鐘壓抑的歡呼聲釋放出來。那時Silvio用腳背擊球，將球送入球門死角，觀眾們發自內心的歡呼，簡直難以置信。 今日，如果你們走進CENARD，你們會看見門上的大海報。上面有我們隊伍的名字：Los Murciélagos他們是一支標準的國家隊，在CENARD內的所有人都認識他們，之後他們拿下了兩屆世界冠軍及兩屆的帕拉林匹克運動冠軍（殘奧會），沒有人會再質疑他們不是高水平運動員。 （掌聲） （掌聲結束） 我有幸能當他們的教練長達10年，起初我只是個訓練師，後來成了教練。我感覺他們給予我的，我多於我給予他們的。 去年，他們邀請我去當另一支國家代表隊當教練，國家力量隊。這是一支由坐在輪椅上的年輕人組成的足球隊。他們用操縱感來控制電動輪椅，因為他們的手臂沒有足夠力量去推動傳統輪椅。他們安裝了減震器在輪椅上，為的是在踢球時保護他們的腳，那是他們第一次以主角的形式上場，而不是觀眾。那是第一次他們的父母、朋友跟家人能看他們比賽。 對我而言，這是新的挑戰，有著跟之前帶領盲人時相同的不適感及恐懼。但我這次我有著更豐富的經驗了。這就是為何從第一天，我就將他們當成運動員一樣訓練，我下了場，試著感同身受，並且不帶任何成見，因為自然地與他們相處對他們最好， 盲人隊跟輪椅隊都是踢足球，但不是所有條件都為了他們設想。所以他們得適應一些規則。但是這兩支隊伍都打破了一項規矩，有人說，他們踢不了足球。 但當你看到他們踢球，你看見他們是在競技，而不是身障。比賽的結束，也是問題的開端，當他們離開球場，當他們進入我們的生活中，社會的規則並不會真的考慮到他們，或是照顧他們。 我從運動中學到的是：這些身障，有時候是被規則所定義的，我相信只要我們能改變一些規則，我們就可以讓他們的生活簡單一些。 每一天我們都能見到一些身障人士，但如果沒跟他們直接交流，我們會無法注意到他們每天面臨的問題，像是他們要搭上一輛巴士、找一份工作、搭乘地鐵或是過馬路是如此困難。 與身障人士相關的社會責任確實在與日俱增。但我認為那樣還不夠。我認為每個人都需要從自我開始改變。首先，將我們與身障人士的差異拋在腦後，然後去遵守規則，去考慮他們。他們人數不多，但確實存在。 我曾經開了El Pulga的腦袋，而我向你保證，這兩支隊伍也敲開了我的腦袋。他們教會我上述所有事情，你必須踏出去，打好每一場比賽，而這些絢麗的比賽，就是生活。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
