Talk	en	zh-tw
hadyn_parry_re_engineering_mosquitos_to_fight_disease	"So I'd like to start by focusing on the world's most dangerous animal. Now, when you talk about dangerous animals, most people might think of lions or tigers or sharks. But of course the most dangerous animal is the mosquito. The mosquito has killed more humans than any other creature in human history. In fact, probably adding them all together, the mosquito has killed more humans. And the mosquito has killed more humans than wars and plague. And you would think, would you not, that with all our science, with all our advances in society, with better towns, better civilizations, better sanitation, wealth, that we would get better at controlling mosquitos, and hence reduce this disease. And that's not really the case. If it was the case, we wouldn't have between 200 and 300 million cases of malaria every year, and we wouldn't have a million and a half deaths from malaria, and we wouldn't have a disease that was relatively unknown 50 years ago now suddenly turned into the largest mosquito-borne virus threat that we have, and that's called dengue fever. So 50 years ago, pretty much no one had heard of it, no one certainly in the European environment. But dengue fever now, according to the World Health Organization, infects between 50 and 100 million people every year, so that's equivalent to the whole of the population of the U.K. being infected every year. Other estimates put that number at roughly double that number of infections. And dengue fever has grown in speed quite phenomenally. In the last 50 years, the incidence of dengue has grown thirtyfold. Now let me tell you a little bit about what dengue fever is, for those who don't know. Now let's assume you go on holiday. Let's assume you go to the Caribbean, or you might go to Mexico. You might go to Latin America, Asia, Africa, anywhere in Saudi Arabia. You might go to India, the Far East. It doesn't really matter. It's the same mosquito, and it's the same disease. You're at risk. And let's assume you're bitten by a mosquito that's carrying that virus. Well, you could develop flu-like symptoms. They could be quite mild. You could develop nausea, headache, your muscles could feel like they're contracting, and you could actually feel like your bones are breaking. And that's the nickname given to this disease. It's called breakbone fever, because that's how you can feel. Now the odd thing is, is that once you've been bitten by this mosquito, and you've had this disease, your body develops antibodies, so if you're bitten again with that strain, it doesn't affect you. But it's not one virus, it's four, and the same protection that gives you the antibodies and protects you from the same virus that you had before actually makes you much more susceptible to the other three. So the next time you get dengue fever, if it's a different strain, you're more susceptible, you're likely to get worse symptoms, and you're more likely to get the more severe forms, hemorrhagic fever or shock syndrome. So you don't want dengue once, and you certainly don't want it again. So why is it spreading so fast? And the answer is this thing. This is Aedes aegypti. Now this is a mosquito that came, like its name suggests, out of North Africa, and it's spread round the world. Now, in fact, a single mosquito will only travel about 200 yards in its entire life. They don't travel very far. What they're very good at doing is hitchhiking, particularly the eggs. They will lay their eggs in clear water, any pool, any puddle, any birdbath, any flower pot, anywhere there's clear water, they'll lay their eggs, and if that clear water is near freight, it's near a port, if it's anywhere near transport, those eggs will then get transported around the world. And that's what's happened. Mankind has transported these eggs all the way around the world, and these insects have infested over 100 countries, and there's now 2.5 billion people living in countries where this mosquito resides. To give you just a couple of examples how fast this has happened, in the mid-'70s, Brazil declared, ""We have no Aedes aegypti,"" and currently they spend about a billion dollars now a year trying to get rid of it, trying to control it, just one species of mosquito. Two days ago, or yesterday, I can't remember which, I saw a Reuters report that said Madeira had had their first cases of dengue, about 52 cases, with about 400 probable cases. That's two days ago. Interestingly, Madeira first got the insect in 2005, and here we are, a few years later, first cases of dengue. So the one thing you'll find is that where the mosquito goes, dengue will follow. Once you've got the mosquito in your area, anyone coming into that area with dengue, mosquito will bite them, mosquito will bite somewhere else, somewhere else, somewhere else, and you'll get an epidemic. So we must be good at killing mosquitos. I mean, that can't be very difficult. Well, there's two principle ways. The first way is that you use larvicides. You use chemicals. You put them into water where they breed. Now in an urban environment, that's extraordinarily difficult. You've got to get your chemical into every puddle, every birdbath, every tree trunk. It's just not practical. The second way you can do it is actually trying to kill the insects as they fly around. This is a picture of fogging. Here what someone is doing is mixing up chemical in a smoke and basically spreading that through the environment. You could do the same with a space spray. This is really unpleasant stuff, and if it was any good, we wouldn't have this massive increase in mosquitos and we wouldn't have this massive increase in dengue fever. So it's not very effective, but it's probably the best thing we've got at the moment. Having said that, actually, your best form of protection and my best form of protection is a long-sleeve shirt and a little bit of DEET to go with it. So let's start again. Let's design a product, right from the word go, and decide what we want. Well we clearly need something that is effective at reducing the mosquito population. There's no point in just killing the odd mosquito here and there. We want something that gets that population right the way down so it can't get the disease transmission. Clearly the product you've got has got to be safe to humans. We are going to use it in and around humans. It has to be safe. We don't want to have a lasting impact on the environment. We don't want to do anything that you can't undo. Maybe a better product comes along in 20, 30 years. Fine. We don't want a lasting environmental impact. We want something that's relatively cheap, or cost-effective, because there's an awful lot of countries involved, and some of them are emerging markets, some of them emerging countries, low-income. And finally, you want something that's species-specific. You want to get rid of this mosquito that spreads dengue, but you don't really want to get all the other insects. Some are quite beneficial. Some are important to your ecosystem. This one's not. It's invaded you. But you don't want to get all of the insects. You just want to get this one. And most of the time, you'll find this insect lives in and around your home, so this — whatever we do has got to get to that insect. It's got to get into people's houses, into the bedrooms, into the kitchens. Now there are two features of mosquito biology that really help us in this project, and that is, firstly, males don't bite. It's only the female mosquito that will actually bite you. The male can't bite you, won't bite you, doesn't have the mouth parts to bite you. It's just the female. And the second is a phenomenon that males are very, very good at finding females. If there's a male mosquito that you release, and if there's a female around, that male will find the female. So basically, we've used those two factors. So here's a typical situation, male meets female, lots of offspring. A single female will lay about up to 100 eggs at a time, up to about 500 in her lifetime. Now if that male is carrying a gene which causes the death of the offspring, then the offspring don't survive, and instead of having 500 mosquitos running around, you have none. And if you can put more, I'll call them sterile, that the offspring will actually die at different stages, but I'll call them sterile for now. If you put more sterile males out into the environment, then the females are more likely to find a sterile male than a fertile one, and you will bring that population down. So the males will go out, they'll look for females, they'll mate. If they mate successfully, then no offspring. If they don't find a female, then they'll die anyway. They only live a few days. And that's exactly where we are. So this is technology that was developed in Oxford University a few years ago. The company itself, Oxitec, we've been working for the last 10 years, very much on a sort of similar development pathway that you'd get with a pharmaceutical company. So about 10 years of internal evaluation, testing, to get this to a state where we think it's actually ready. And then we've gone out into the big outdoors, always with local community consent, always with the necessary permits. So we've done field trials now in the Cayman Islands, a small one in Malaysia, and two more now in Brazil. And what's the result? Well, the result has been very good. In about four months of release, we've brought that population of mosquitos — in most cases we're dealing with villages here of about 2,000, 3,000 people, that sort of size, starting small — we've taken that mosquito population down by about 85 percent in about four months. And in fact, the numbers after that get, those get very difficult to count, because there just aren't any left. So that's been what we've seen in Cayman, it's been what we've seen in Brazil in those trials. And now what we're doing is we're going through a process to scale up to a town of about 50,000, so we can see this work at big scale. And we've got a production unit in Oxford, or just south of Oxford, where we actually produce these mosquitos. We can produce them, in a space a bit more than this red carpet, I can produce about 20 million a week. We can transport them around the world. It's not very expensive, because it's a coffee cup — something the size of a coffee cup will hold about three million eggs. So freight costs aren't our biggest problem. (Laughter) So we've got that. You could call it a mosquito factory. And for Brazil, where we've been doing some trials, the Brazilian government themselves have now built their own mosquito factory, far bigger than ours, and we'll use that for scaling up in Brazil. There you are. We've sent mosquito eggs. We've separated the males from the females. The males have been put in little pots and the truck is going down the road and they are releasing males as they go. It's actually a little bit more precise than that. You want to release them so that you get good coverage of your area. So you take a Google Map, you divide it up, work out how far they can fly, and make sure you're releasing such that you get coverage of the area, and then you go back, and within a very short space of time, you're bringing that population right the way down. We've also done this in agriculture. We've got several different species of agriculture coming along, and I'm hoping that soon we'll be able to get some funding together so we can get back and start looking at malaria. So that's where we stand at the moment, and I've just got a few final thoughts, which is that this is another way in which biology is now coming in to supplement chemistry in some of our societal advances in this area, and these biological approaches are coming in in very different forms, and when you think about genetic engineering, we've now got enzymes for industrial processing, enzymes, genetically engineered enzymes in food. We have G.M. crops, we have pharmaceuticals, we have new vaccines, all using roughly the same technology, but with very different outcomes. And I'm in favor, actually. Of course I am. I'm in favor of particularly where the older technologies don't work well or have become unacceptable. And although the techniques are similar, the outcomes are very, very different, and if you take our approach, for example, and you compare it to, say, G.M. crops, both techniques are trying to produce a massive benefit. Both have a side benefit, which is that we reduce pesticide use tremendously. But whereas a G.M. crop is trying to protect the plant, for example, and give it an advantage, what we're actually doing is taking the mosquito and giving it the biggest disadvantage it can possibly have, rendering it unable to reproduce effectively. So for the mosquito, it's a dead end. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"現在開始， 我要著重談一談一種世界上最危險的動物。 此時此刻，當人們說起什麽是危險的動物，大多數人也許會想到獅子或者老虎或者鯊魚。但是，毋庸置疑，那種最危險的動物是蚊子。在漫長的人類歷史長河裡，蚊子比其他動物殺掉了更多的人類。實際上，也許把所有被其他動物殺死的人數加起來的總和，也不會多於僅是被蚊子幹掉的人類性命的數量。並且被蚊子殺死的人類多於在戰爭和瘟疫里死亡的人類。 也許你會情不自禁地想，以我們所擁有的科技，以我們所有的社會進步，更好的生活城鎮， 更好的文明， 更好的衛生條件，更多的財富，我們應該可以更好地控制蚊子的數量，並因此減少蚊子所帶來的疾病。但是事實並非全如此。如果我們可以控制蚊子的數量，這個世界上就不會每年都有2到3億的人口被瘧疾所侵害，我們也不會有150萬人口每年死於瘧疾，我們更不會有一種疾病，在大約50年前還不為人所知，但是在一夜之間，成為由蚊子傳播的病毒裡，最為危險的一種，這種疾病的名字叫做登革熱。 在50年前，幾乎沒有一個人聽說過這個名字，確切地說，沒有一個生活在歐洲的人聽說過這個名字。但是，根據世界衛生組織的報告，迄今為止，每年有5千萬至一億的人感染登革熱，這個數量相當於整個英國的人口每年都被感染登革熱。其他的估計顯示，大概每年被感染的人數是世界衛生組織所報告人數的兩倍。並且，登革熱傳播的速度是異常的快。在過去50年間，登革熱的發生率已經翻了三十倍。 現在，讓我給你們一點點關於登革熱的知識，特別是要給那些還不知道它是什麽的人們。現在假設你要去度假，假設你要去加勒比海度假，或這假設你去墨西哥。或者，你去拉丁美洲，亞洲，非洲，或者沙烏地阿拉伯任何一個地方。或者是去印度，遠東地區。不管是你去哪裡，其實都無所謂。因為在任何一個地方，都是同一種蚊子，和同一種由那種蚊子傳播的疾病。你都有危險會被感染到。現在假設你被一隻蚊子叮了，並且這個蚊子攜帶那種病毒。嗯，這時，你會產生類似感冒的症狀。這些症狀可能會顯得很輕微。你也許會產生噁心，頭痛的症狀，你會感覺你的肌肉在收縮，並且你可能會感覺你的骨頭在四分五裂。這種感覺其實是這種病昵稱的來源—-裂骨燒，因為你的身體就會有這種感覺。 奇怪的是，當你被這種蚊子叮咬了以後，並且你已經感染這種疾病，你的身體會產生抗體，也就是說，如果你再次被帶有同一種病毒的蚊子叮咬以後，你不會被感染。但是這不僅僅只有一種病毒，而是四種。那種幫助你對其中某一種病毒產生抗體的保護措施，那種保護你不再被之前感染你的病毒所感染的保護措施，實際上會讓你更容易被其他的三種病毒所感染。也就是說，下次如果再次感染登革熱，而且是另外一種病毒系，你就會更容易被它侵犯，你很可能會有更加嚴重的症狀，而且，你更可能會有那些比較嚴重的症狀，像是出血熱，或者休克綜合症。所以，你最好是一次都不要感染登革熱，並且絕對不要被感染第二次。 那爲什麽登革熱傳播的速度如此之快呢？原因就是整個東西—-—-埃及伊蚊。這種蚊子來自於北非，正如牠的名字所顯示，並且牠們散布到世界各個角落。實際上，某一隻蚊子，在牠整個生命過程中，只能飛行大約200碼（182.93米）的距離。牠們並不能飛行太遠。但是牠們真正在行的是 “搭便車”，特別是牠們的卵。牠們會把卵產在清澈的水裡，任何的水池里，水坑里，任何小鳥戲水的池子里，花盆里，只要是任何有清水的地方，牠們就會產卵，並且，如果那種清水是靠近碼頭，或是港口的地方，只要是任何靠近交通運輸的地方，這些卵就會被傳播到世界各地。這就是事實的真相。是人類把這些卵傳播到了世界的各個角落。這些害蟲已經大量傳播到了超過100個國家，這些國家一共有25億人口生活其中。也就是說這25億人口與這些蚊子一起生活。 給你舉一些簡單的例子來說明牠們傳播的速度有多麼驚人，在1970年代中期，巴西申報說，“我國沒有埃及伊蚊。”但是現在，他們已經每年花費近十億美金，試圖去除或者控制這些蚊子，並且只是眾多蚊子中的一種。我記不清楚是在兩天前還是昨天，我看到路透社的一篇報導說，馬德拉群島發現了他們島上第一批登革熱的爆發，有52人被確認感染了登革熱，其他400個人“可能被感染”。那是兩天前。有趣的是，馬德拉群島在2005年，第一次發現有這種害蟲的存在，到現在，也就是幾年以後，第一批登革熱就在那裡爆發了。所以，可以確定的是，只要那種蚊子傳播到的地方，就會有登革熱。只要那種蚊子到了某一個地區，只要任何人到了那個被登革熱感染的地區，蚊子就會叮咬那些人，然後去其他地方繼續叮咬，去其他地方繼續咬，繼續咬，然後這就形成了大範圍傳播的流行病。 所以我們人類必須要真真正正地懂得如何殺死蚊子。我的意思是，那其實並不是很難。也就是說，有兩種主要的方法。第一種方法是你要使用殺幼蟲劑。你使用化學製劑。將化學製劑放入牠們產卵繁殖的水中。但是在現代都市生活的環境里，使用這種方法是極其困難的。你必須要把這些化學藥物投放到每一個水池，每一個水盆，每一個樹幹裡。這其實是不現實的。第二種你可以使用的方法是當這些害蟲在飛行的時候把牠們殺死。這是一張“噴霧殺蟲”的照片。人們所做的，其實是把化學殺蟲劑跟煙霧混合在一起，然後把那種混合物撒到環境中去。其實跟你是用空氣噴霧器是一回事。這些噴霧是讓人感到不舒服的東西，而且，如果它是有效的的話，世界上就不會有大量增多的蚊子，以及大量增多的登革熱的病例。也就是說，這種噴霧的方法並不有效。但是，它也許是我們目前最好的方法了。不過，實際上，你和我最好的防蚊措施就是穿長袖衣服以及一點點防蚊水（diethyltoluamide、待乙妥）。 所以，讓我們重新開始。讓我們一起設計一種產品，馬上就開始，一起決定我們到底想要什麽產品。嗯，我們當然是需要一種能有效減少蚊子數量的東西。只隨機地殺蚊子是沒有意義的。我們希望的是找到能夠大量減少蚊子族群的方法，這樣蚊子就不能傳播疾病了。我們清楚的知道，這種產品必須對人類是無害的。因為我們要在人類生活的範圍里使用它。它必須得非常安全。我們也不希望這種東西對環境產生長久持續的影響。我們不想要(對環境)有不可逆的影響。也許會有一種更好的產品會在20或者30年後出現。沒關係。我們不想讓環境受到長久的影響。我們想要的是相對便宜的，或有成本效益的，因為有太多，太多的國家被牽扯其中，而且，其中一些國家是新興的市場，在這些新興市場裡，有一些是低收入的國家。最後，我們想要的是針對某一種蚊子的產品。我們想除掉那種傳播登革熱的蚊子，但是你不想殺掉其他所有的昆蟲。有些昆蟲是有益的。有些在生態系中扮演很重要的角色。但這種蚊子不是有益的。牠們侵犯我們。但是你不想幹掉所有的昆蟲。你只想幹掉這一種而已。而且在大多數情況下，你會發現這種昆蟲就生活在你的家裡，所以，無論我們做什麼，必須能消滅這種昆蟲。我們必須要在人們的房子里，臥室裡，廚房裡使用。 蚊子有兩個生物特性著實可以幫助我們做好這個科學研究專案（殺蚊子的專案），第一個特性是公蚊子不咬人。叮咬你的，全都是母蚊子。公蚊子不能夠咬你，也不會想要咬你。牠們沒有那種能夠叮咬你的口器。所以，咬你的只是母蚊子。第二個特性是一個現象，即，公蚊子非常擅長於找到母蚊子。如果你釋放了一隻公蚊子，而且碰巧有一隻母蚊子在附近，那隻公蚊子一定會找到那隻母蚊子。 基本上，我們已經利用了這兩種特性。所以，通常狀況下，公蚊子遇到母蚊子，然後就繁殖大量的後代。僅一隻母蚊子一次會產下多達100個卵。在牠一生裡，會產下多達500個卵。如果那一隻公蚊子攜帶了會導致後代死亡的基因，那麼這些後代就不會存活，也就是說，交配的結果是什麽都沒有，而不是500隻活蹦亂跳的蚊子。說得誇張一點，我稱他們為沒有生育力的蚊子，因為這些後代會在不同的生命階段里死亡，但是我們稱這些公蚊子為“不育蚊”。如果你將更多的“不育蚊”放到自然環境裡，那麼，母蚊子就更有可能會找到“不育蚊”，而不是有生育能力的公蚊子，這樣的話，你就可以減少這種蚊子的數量。所以，當這些“不育”公蚊子出去尋找母蚊子的時候，牠們會交配。如果交配成功，（因為基因缺陷）就沒有後代存活。如果牠們沒有找到母蚊子，那麼，牠們最終都會死。牠們本身只能存活幾天。 這就是我們現在正在做的。所以，這就是幾年前在牛津大學研發出來的技術。這個公司叫做“Oxitec”，我們已經工作了10年，用的研發方法與製藥公司研發藥物的方法類似。也就是說，己經花了約十年的時間，去做內部評估，測試，才能夠到達我們認為“一切準備就緒”的階段。接下來，我們己經到野外去測試，必須得到當地社區的同意，並且先得到必要的許可。我們已經在開曼群島做了實地測驗，另外，在馬來西亞做了一個小的實地測驗，並在巴西做另外兩個實地測驗。 那麼，結果如何？嗯，結果都非常的好。在投放“不育蚊”的四個月以後，我們已經把蚊子的數量——大多數情況下，我們的實驗地是那些只有2000、3000人的村子，一切都“從小”開始—-在四個月的時間裡，我們已經成功地將蚊子族群的數量減少了85%。實際上，要想繼續再算剩下的蚊子的數量是非常，非常困難的，因為根本就沒有什麽蚊子剩下了。那正是我們在開曼群島看到的結果，也正是我們在巴西的實地測試裡看到的結果。 現在我們正在做的是這個實驗放到有50,000人口的城鎮裡，這樣的話，我們就可以看到這個實驗在大範圍的地區效果如何。另外，在牛津，我們已經有一個生產小組，確切地說，是在牛津的南部，這個生產小組負責製造“不育蚊”。我們可以在比這塊紅地毯大一點的空間裡製造這些蚊子我每星期可以製造大約2000萬的“不育蚊”。我們可以把牠們送到世界各地。花費一點也不大，因為這只需要一個咖啡杯—-任何一個咖啡杯大小的容器就可以裝得下3百萬個卵。也就是說，運費是不成問題的。這些就是我們現在所取得的結果。你可以稱它為“蚊子工廠”。在巴西，我們已經做了幾個測試，並且，現在巴西政府已經建造了他們自己的蚊子工廠， 遠遠比我們牛津的工廠大得多，我們會用他們的工廠在巴西做大規模的實驗。 正如你所看到的。我們送出了蚊子的卵。我們已經把公蚊子和母蚊子都分開了。公蚊子被放在了小罐子裡，然後，運輸這些罐子的卡車沿路將這些公蚊子釋放出去。當然，實際操作要更加精密。你釋放蚊子的範圍必須能夠足以覆蓋到整個地區。你要做的就是利用Google地圖，將那些區域分割出來，弄清楚牠們能飛多遠，並且，確保蚊子被釋放的範圍是全面覆蓋整個區域的，然後重覆釋放更多的""不育蚊""這樣在很短的時間內，你就可以把那裡的蚊子數量大量減少。 我們也在農業地區做過這些實驗。我們已經在不同類型的農業地區取得了進展，我希望，在不久的將來，我們可以得到更多的資助，用於整治和研究怎麼樣對付虐疾。 所以，以上這些，就是我們現在的科研進展，我還有一些最後的想法，也就是說，當下，這是生物學以另外一種全新的方式補充化學。並且是在某些社會最領先的範圍裡。並且，這些生物學的研究方法正以一些非常新穎的形式進入研究的領域，當人們想起基因工程的時候，我們想在已經發明出了可供工業處理使用的酶，那些通過基因工程製造出來的酶，可以放在我們的食物裡。我們已經有了轉基因的農作物，有了藥物，我們還有新型的疫苗，製造這些東西的技術都大同小異，但結果卻非常不同。並且，實際上，我很認同，當然我很認同。我特別認同的是把基因工程用在老技術失去效果，或已經不能被接受的的領域裡。儘管，技術都差不多，但是產生的結果卻非常地不同。舉個例，如果將我們的技術，與轉基因農作物比較，你會發現，這兩種技術都在盡可能產生大範圍的效益。而且兩者都有副效益，也就是，我們極大地減少了殺蟲劑的使用。但是，轉基因農作物是在保護植物，例如，給植物一點點生存的優勢，但我們所做的是消滅蚊子，並給牠盡可能大的生存劣勢，致使牠們不能有效地繁殖。所以，這對蚊子來說，是死路一條。 非常感謝你們的傾聽！（掌聲）"
