Talk	en	zh-tw
hans_and_ola_rosling_how_not_to_be_ignorant_about_the_world	"Hans Rosling: I'm going to ask you three multiple choice questions. Use this device. Use this device to answer. The first question is, how did the number of deaths per year from natural disaster, how did that change during the last century? Did it more than double, did it remain about the same in the world as a whole, or did it decrease to less than half? Please answer A, B or C. I see lots of answers. This is much faster than I do it at universities. They are so slow. They keep thinking, thinking, thinking. Oh, very, very good. And we go to the next question. So how long did women 30 years old in the world go to school: seven years, five years or three years? A, B or C? Please answer. And we go to the next question. In the last 20 years, how did the percentage of people in the world who live in extreme poverty change? Extreme poverty — not having  enough food for the day. Did it almost double, did it remain more or less the same, or did it halve? A, B or C? Now, answers. You see, deaths from natural disasters in the world, you can see it from this graph here, from 1900 to 2000. In 1900, there was about half a million people who died every year from natural disasters: floods, earthquakes, volcanic  eruption, whatever, droughts. And then, how did that change? Gapminder asked the public in Sweden. This is how they answered. The Swedish public answered like this: Fifty percent thought it had doubled, 38 percent said it's more or less the same, 12 said it had halved. This is the best data from the disaster researchers, and it goes up and down, and it goes to the Second World War, and after that it starts to fall and it keeps falling and it's down to much less than half. The world has been much, much more capable as the decades go by to protect people from this, you know. So only 12 percent of the Swedes know this. So I went to the zoo and I asked the chimps. (Laughter) (Applause) The chimps don't watch the evening news, so the chimps, they choose by random, so the Swedes answer worse than random. Now how did you do? That's you. You were beaten by the chimps. (Laughter) But it was close. You were three times better than the Swedes, but that's not enough. You shouldn't compare yourself to Swedes. You must have higher ambitions in the world. Let's look at the next answer here: women in school. Here, you can see men went eight years. How long did women go to school? Well, we asked the Swedes like this, and that gives you a hint, doesn't it? The right answer is probably the one the fewest Swedes picked, isn't it? (Laughter) Let's see, let's see. Here we come. Yes, yes, yes, women have almost caught up. This is the U.S. public. And this is you. Here you come. Ooh. Well, congratulations, you're twice as good as the Swedes, but you don't need me — So how come? I think it's like this, that everyone is aware that there are countries and there are areas where girls have great difficulties. They are stopped when they go to school, and it's disgusting. But in the majority of the world, where most people in the world live, most countries, girls today go to school as long as boys, more or less. That doesn't mean that gender equity is achieved, not at all. They still are confined to terrible, terrible limitations, but schooling is there in the world today. Now, we miss the majority. When you answer, you answer according to the worst places, and there you are right, but you miss the majority. What about poverty? Well, it's very clear that poverty here was almost halved, and in U.S., when we asked the public, only five percent got it right. And you? Ah, you almost made it to the chimps. (Laughter) (Applause) That little, just a few of you! There must be preconceived ideas, you know. And many in the rich countries, they think that oh, we can never end extreme poverty. Of course they think so, because they don't even know what has happened. The first thing to think about the future is to know about the present. These questions were a few of the first ones in the pilot phase of the Ignorance Project in Gapminder Foundation that we run, and it was started, this project, last year by my boss, and also my son, Ola Rosling. (Laughter) He's cofounder and director, and he wanted, Ola told me we have to be more systematic when we fight devastating ignorance. So already the pilots reveal this, that so many in the public score worse than random, so we have to think about preconceived ideas, and one of the main preconceived ideas is about world income distribution. Look here. This is how it was in 1975. It's the number of people on each income, from one dollar a day — (Applause) See, there was one hump here, around one dollar a day, and then there was one hump here somewhere between 10 and 100 dollars. The world was two groups. It was a camel world, like a camel with two humps, the poor ones and the rich ones, and there were fewer in between. But look how this has changed: As I go forward, what has changed, the world population has grown, and the humps start to merge. The lower humps merged with the upper hump, and the camel dies and we have a dromedary world with one hump only. The percent in poverty has decreased. Still it's appalling that so many remain in extreme poverty. We still have this group, almost a billion, over there, but that can be ended now. The challenge we have now is to get away from that, understand where the majority is, and that is very clearly shown in this question. We asked, what is the percentage of the world's one-year-old children who have got those basic vaccines against measles and other things that we have had for many years: 20, 50 or 80 percent? Now, this is what the U.S. public and the Swedish answered. Look at the Swedish result: you know what the right answer is. (Laughter) Who the heck is a professor of global health in that country? Well, it's me. It's me. (Laughter) It's very difficult, this. It's very difficult. (Applause) However, Ola's approach to really measure what we know made headlines, and CNN published these results on their web and they had the questions there, millions answered, and I think there were about 2,000 comments, and this was one of the comments. ""I bet no member of the media passed the test,"" he said. So Ola told me, ""Take these devices. You are invited to media conferences. Give it to them and measure what the media know."" And ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, the informal results from a conference with U.S. media. And then, lately, from the European Union media. (Laughter) You see, the problem is not that people don't read and listen to the media. The problem is that the media doesn't know themselves. What shall we do about this, Ola? Do we have any ideas? (Applause) Ola Rosling: Yes, I have an idea, but first, I'm so sorry that you were beaten by the chimps. Fortunately, I will be able to comfort you by showing why it was not your fault, actually. Then, I will equip you with some tricks for beating the chimps in the future. That's basically what I will do. But first, let's look at why are we so ignorant, and it all starts in this place. It's Hudiksvall. It's a city in northern Sweden. It's a neighborhood where I grew up, and it's a neighborhood with a large problem. Actually, it has exactly the same problem which existed in all the neighborhoods where you grew up as well. It was not representative. Okay? It gave me a very biased view of how life is on this planet. So this is the first piece of the ignorance puzzle. We have a personal bias. We have all different experiences from communities and people we meet, and on top of this, we start school, and we add the next problem. Well, I like schools, but teachers tend to teach outdated worldviews, because they learned something when they went to school, and now they describe this world to the students without any bad intentions, and those books, of course, that are printed are outdated in a world that changes. And there is really no practice to keep the teaching material up to date. So that's what we are focusing on. So we have these outdated facts added on top of our personal bias. What happens next is news, okay? An excellent journalist knows how to pick the story that will make headlines, and people will read it because it's sensational. Unusual events are more interesting, no? And they are exaggerated, and especially things we're afraid of. A shark attack on a Swedish person will get headlines for weeks in Sweden. So these three skewed sources of information were really hard to get away from. They kind of bombard us and equip our mind with a lot of strange ideas, and on top of it we put the very thing that makes us humans, our human intuition. It was good in evolution. It helped us generalize and jump to conclusions very, very fast. It helped us exaggerate what we were afraid of, and we seek causality where there is none, and we then get an illusion of confidence where we believe that we are the best car drivers, above the average. Everybody answered that question, ""Yeah, I drive cars better."" Okay, this was good evolutionarily, but now when it comes to the worldview, it is the exact reason why it's upside down. The trends that are increasing are instead falling, and the other way around, and in this case, the chimps use our intuition against us, and it becomes our weakness instead of our strength. It was supposed to be our strength, wasn't it? So how do we solve such problems? First, we need to measure it, and then we need to cure it. So by measuring it we can understand what is the pattern of ignorance. We started the pilot last year, and now we're pretty sure that we will encounter a lot of ignorance across the whole world, and the idea is really to scale it up to all domains or dimensions of global development, such as climate, endangered species, human rights, gender equality, energy, finance. All different sectors have facts, and there are organizations trying to spread awareness about these facts. So I've started actually contacting some of them, like WWF and Amnesty International and UNICEF, and asking them, what are your favorite facts which you think the public doesn't know? Okay, I gather those facts. Imagine a long list with, say, 250 facts. And then we poll the public and see where they score worst. So we get a shorter list with the terrible results, like some few examples from Hans, and we have no problem finding these kinds of terrible results. Okay, this little shortlist, what are we going to do with it? Well, we turn it into a knowledge certificate, a global knowledge certificate, which you can use, if you're a large organization, a school, a university, or maybe a news agency, to certify yourself as globally knowledgeable. Basically meaning, we don't hire people who score like chimpanzees. Of course you shouldn't. So maybe 10 years from now, if this project succeeds, you will be sitting in an interview having to fill out this crazy global knowledge. So now we come to the practical tricks. How are you going to succeed? There is, of course, one way, which is to sit down late nights and learn all the facts by heart by reading all these reports. That will never happen, actually. Not even Hans thinks that's going to happen. People don't have that time. People like shortcuts, and here are the shortcuts. We need to turn our intuition into strength again. We need to be able to generalize. So now I'm going to show you some tricks where the misconceptions are turned around into rules of thumb. Let's start with the first misconception. This is very widespread. Everything is getting worse. You heard it. You thought it yourself. The other way to think is, most things improve. So you're sitting with a question in front of you and you're unsure. You should guess ""improve."" Okay? Don't go for the worse. That will help you score better on our tests. (Applause) That was the first one. There are rich and poor and the gap is increasing. It's a terrible inequality. Yeah, it's an unequal world, but when you look at the data, it's one hump. Okay? If you feel unsure, go for ""the most people are in the middle."" That's going to help you get the answer right. Now, the next preconceived idea is first countries and people need to be very, very rich to get the social development like girls in school and be ready for natural disasters. No, no, no. That's wrong. Look: that huge hump in the middle already have girls in school. So if you are unsure, go for the ""the majority already have this,"" like electricity and girls in school, these kinds of things. They're only rules of thumb, so of course they don't apply to everything, but this is how you can generalize. Let's look at the last one. If something, yes, this is a good one, sharks are dangerous. No — well, yes, but they are not so important in the global statistics, that is what I'm saying. I actually, I'm very afraid of sharks. So as soon as I see a question about things I'm afraid of, which might be earthquakes, other religions, maybe I'm afraid of terrorists or sharks, anything that makes me feel, assume you're going to exaggerate the problem. That's a rule of thumb. Of course there are dangerous  things that are also great. Sharks kill very, very few. That's how you should think. With these four rules of thumb, you could probably answer better than the chimps, because the chimps cannot do this. They cannot generalize these kinds of rules. And hopefully we can turn your world around and we're going to beat the chimps. Okay? (Applause) That's a systematic approach. Now the question, is this important? Yeah, it's important to understand poverty, extreme poverty and how to fight it, and how to bring girls in school. When we realize that actually it's succeeding, we can understand it. But is it important for everyone else who cares about the rich end of this scale? I would say yes, extremely important, for the same reason. If you have a fact-based worldview of today, you might have a chance to understand what's coming next in the future. We're going back to these two humps in 1975. That's when I was born, and I selected the West. That's the current EU countries and North America. Let's now see how the rest and the West compares in terms of how rich you are. These are the people who can afford to fly abroad with an airplane for a vacation. In 1975, only 30 percent of them lived outside EU and North America. But this has changed, okay? So first, let's look at the change up till today, 2014. Today it's 50/50. The Western domination is over, as of today. That's nice. So what's going to happen next? Do you see the big hump? Did you see how it moved? I did a little experiment. I went to the IMF, International Monetary Fund, website. They have a forecast for the next  five years of GDP per capita. So I can use that to go five years into the future, assuming the income inequality  of each country is the same. I did that, but I went even further. I used those five years for the next 20 years with the same speed, just as an  experiment what might actually happen. Let's move into the future. In 2020, it's 57 percent in the rest. In 2025, 63 percent. 2030, 68. And in 2035, the West is  outnumbered in the rich consumer market. These are just projections of  GDP per capita into the future. Seventy-three percent of the rich consumers are going to live outside North America and Europe. So yes, I think it's a good idea for  a company to use this certificate to make sure to make fact- based decisions in the future. Thank you very much. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Hans and Ola Rosling!"	我要問大家三個選擇題。用這個答題裝置來回答。第一個問題是，每年因為自然災害而造成的死亡人數在過去這個世紀中出現怎樣的變化？是翻倍了，還是總體上維持著一致的水準，抑或是減少了一半以上？請回答 A，B，或 C。很多人作答了。這比在大學裡快多了。大學生就是想太多，答題很慢。喔，非常好。 我們接著看下一題。在全球範圍內，年齡 30 歲的女性平均就學的時間有多長？7 年，5 年，還是 3 年？A，B 或 C？請作答。 接下來的問題是：最近 20 年，世界上生活在赤貧中的人口比例有怎樣的變化？赤貧就是每天無法獲得足夠食物。是幾乎翻倍，還是大致維持一致水準，抑或是減少了一半？A，B 或 C？ 現在，公佈答案。你們看，每年因自然災害致死的人數，你們可從這裡的圖表得知，世界上自 1900 年至 2000 年的數據。在 1900 年，大約有 50 萬人因為自然災害而死亡，洪水、地震、火山爆發、旱災等。而之後這個數據是如何變化呢？ Gapminder 機構在瑞典進行調查。他們是這樣回答的，瑞典民眾這樣回答的：半數的人認為倍增，38% 的人認為不變，12% 的人認為減半。這是從災害研究者得到的最佳資料，顯示出數字升高又降低，然後是第二次世界大戰，戰後又開始持續降低，並遠低於一半。在數十年之間，這世界越來越能夠保護人們免於自然災害致死。所以，僅 12％ 的瑞典民眾答對。 那我就去動物園問黑猩猩。（笑聲）（掌聲）黑猩猩不看晚間新聞，所以，黑猩猩是亂猜的。也就是說，瑞典人回答得比亂猜還糟糕。現在我們來看各位答得如何？這就是各位回答的情況。黑猩猩還打敗你們了吧。（笑聲）但是很接近了。各位比瑞典人強三倍，但是那還不夠。你們不該和瑞典人相提並論。各位在世間應該要有更高的抱負。 來看看下一題的答案：女性就學。各位在此可以看到，男性平均就學時長為8年。那女性平均就學時間呢？瑞典人是這麼回答的，而那給了各位一點提示，不是嗎？正確的回答大概是這個，就是最少瑞典人選的，對吧？（笑聲）我們來看看吧。答案來囉。沒錯，女性就學時間幾乎趕上男性。這是美國大眾對這個問題的回答。然後這是各位的。噢......恭喜各位，你們的正確率比瑞典人好上兩倍。但你們不需要我來...... 怎麼會這樣？我猜大概是因為大家都知道有些國家、有些地方，女孩子面臨著很艱鉅的阻礙。她們沒辦法上學，而這讓人覺得可惡。而世上大多數人所居住的地方，在大多數國家，女孩子們現在去上學的時間，和男孩們相比或多或少是一樣長的。但那並不表示性別平等已經實現，完全不是。女性仍被難以忍受的限制束縛著，但是，當今世界中，就學並非遙不可及。現在，我們遺漏了大多數情形。各位回答時以最糟糕的情況為依據，那並沒有什麼不對，但你卻遺漏了大多數情形。 那關於貧窮的問題呢？這裡清楚地顯示，貧窮的情況幾乎已經減半，而在美國，當我們詢問大眾時，只有 5％ 的人答對。而各位呢？啊，各位幾乎和黑猩猩一樣優秀。（笑聲）（掌聲）就差那麼一點點啊！先入為主的想法必定存在。而在富裕國家中的多數人，他們認為我們永遠無法終結赤貧。他們當然這麼想，因為他們不瞭解實際的情況。思考未來的首要之務，是對於現況的瞭解。 這些是“無知項目”的前導階段中最開始提出的問題裡的一小部分，這個項目由我們所營運的Gapminder 基金會發起，而且是在去年發起的，由 Ola Rosling，我的老闆，也是我兒子。（笑聲）他是創辦人之一及董事，而他告訴我，他要的是我們應該更有系統地對抗災難性的無知。所以，前導的研究已經顯示出，一般大眾正確回答的比例低於亂猜，因此，我們應當反思先入為主的觀念。而其中最主要的觀念之一，是有關世界上的收入分配。 這是 1975 年時候的狀況。這是每人每日所得的人數統計數據。從每天一美元......（掌聲）看到了嗎，這裡有個峰值，大約是每日所得一美元，然後這裡有另一個峰值，大約介於每日所得10 到 100 美元。這世界上有兩個主要族群，就像一只雙峰駱駝。窮的一群，有錢的一群，少數介於兩者之間。 但看看這樣的情況是怎麼變化的。隨著時光流轉，產生的變化是：世界的人口增加，而兩個峰值開始合併。低處的駝峰與高處的合而為一，而世界從雙峰駱駝變成了只有單峰的駱駝。貧窮人口的比例減少，但依舊令人覺得糟糕的，是許多人仍有這麼多人處於赤貧。我們大約仍有10億左右赤貧人口，但那現在可以被終結了。 我們目前的挑戰在於，擺脫赤貧，搞清楚大多數人的狀況，而那已經很清楚地顯現在問題中。我們要問，世界上多少比例的一歲幼童接種了像麻疹之類的基本疫苗，在我們擁有疫苗這麼多年之後：20％，50％ 或是 80％ ？這是美國和瑞典大眾的回答。先看瑞典人的回答，這樣你就知道哪個答案才是對的。（笑聲）到底那個國家的全球公衛教授是誰呀？欸，是我，是我。（笑聲）這真是非常難搞。（掌聲） 不過，Ola 用來量測我們所知多少的方法已經成為新聞頭條。CNN 在網路上公布這些結果，還有問題，並有幾百萬人回答，還有大約 2000 條評論，而這是其中一則評論。他說，「我敢賭沒有一家媒體答對了這些問題。」 所以 Ola 告訴我，「帶著這些答題裝置，你獲邀去參加記者會。把裝置發給媒體，並測測他們所知多少。」各位女士先生們，在此首度揭露，我們所得到非正式的結果，在一次美國媒體記者會所蒐集。然後，最近在歐盟媒體記者會所獲得的結果。（笑聲）你看，問題不在於人們不去閱聽媒體。問題在於媒體自己都不瞭解。 Ola ，我們該怎麼做呢？我們有什麼點子嗎？（掌聲） 沒錯，我有個點子。但首先，我對各位輸給黑猩猩感到遺憾。好在我有辦法安慰各位，闡明這實際上不是各位的錯。然後我會為各位提供一些小技巧，讓各位未來能贏過黑猩猩。那基本上是我接下來將要做的。 不過，首先，來看看我們為何如此無知，而一切都開始於此處。這是 Hudiksvall，在北瑞典的一個城市。這是我長大的地方，而且這地方有個大問題，實際上，相同的問題也存在各位生長的故鄉，這不具代表性。好嗎？它提供我一個非常偏差的觀點，來理解這星球上生活的面貌。所以，這是無知拼圖的第一塊。我們有種個人的偏見。 我們有各式各樣的經驗，從我們接觸的社群與人們處獲得，在那基礎上，我們還上學，這就帶來了下面的問題。我喜歡學校，但老師們傾向於傳授過時的世界觀，因為，那是他們以前求學時學到的，而現在，他們對學生描述這世界他們並沒有不良的意圖，當然，那些印出來的書籍也已經跟不上世界的變化。而且，沒有一種方法真正能夠維持教材的更新。於是，這成為我們關注的焦點。當我們把這些過時的事實，傾注在個人的偏見上。 接下來就是新聞了，好嗎？一個出色的記者知道如何挑選造就頭條新聞的故事，且人們會因為夠腥羶而去閱讀它。奇聞才比較有趣，不是嗎？而它們被誇大，特別是我們會懼怕的事情。一個瑞典人被鯊魚攻擊，肯定會在瑞典成為數週的頭條。 所以，這三種歪曲的資訊來源我們實在難以擺脫。他們就像在對我們進行疲勞轟炸，並讓我們充滿許多奇怪的想法，我們在那之上放了人類的特有功能，我們人類的直覺。這在物種進化中是件好事。幫助我們歸納並用很快的速度得到結論。那讓我們誇大我們害怕的，並讓我們無中生有地尋找出因果關係，然後得到一種自信的假像，在假像中相信自己是最佳駕駛員，比其他人都好。每個人對那個問題的回答都是，「沒錯，我的駕駛技術比較好。」 好吧，這是正向進化的，但當這變成世界觀，就正好成為混亂的根源。本來以為是增加的趨勢反而是在下降，有些則恰好相反。而那樣的情況下，黑猩猩用我們的直覺打敗了我們，而直覺變成我們的劣勢而不是優勢。那本應是我們的優勢，不是嗎？ 所以，我們該如何解決這樣的問題？首先，我們必須要衡量問題，然後我們需要加以解決。藉由衡量問題，我們可以理解無知的模式是怎樣的。我們去年開始前導計畫，而現在我們很確定會遭遇世界上許多無知的情況，而方法就是真正地將規模擴及所有面向或各種全球發展的角度，諸如氣候、瀕危物種、人權、性別平等、能源、金融等等。不同產業皆有其真相，而不同的組織正試著散播對於這些真相的認知。因此，我開始聯繫一些組織，如世界自然基金會，國際特赦組織，和聯合國兒童基金會，並問他們，「你們最關注的真相，你們認為大眾所不知道的是什麼？」 我收集了那些真相。想像一個長長的清單，就說有 250 個好了。然後我們拿來測試一般民眾，看看哪個部分分數最低。於是我們得到一個比較短的清單，上面列舉了比較差的結果，就像 Hans 所舉的幾個例子，我們可以輕易地就能找到這樣糟糕的結果。好，我們該怎麼處理這篩選出來的清單呢？我們把它轉化成“知識證書”，一份“全球知識證書”，如果你是個大型組織，則可以供你使用，例如一所學校、大學，或是新聞媒體，用來證明你具備全球知識。基本上，這意味著我們不聘用得分和黑猩猩一樣高的人。各位當然不該像黑猩猩一樣。所以，或許十年內，如果計劃成功的話，那麼各位在工作面談中，就得做這份全球知識的問卷。 接下來，我們來談談實用的訣竅。各位要怎樣成功呢？當然，其中一種方法，就是在夜深人靜時坐下來，用心熟記這些知識，通過閱讀各種的研究報告。實際上，沒人會這麼做。連 Hans 都不覺得會有人如此。人們沒有時間這麼做。人們喜歡捷徑，而捷徑有這些：我們需要再次將直覺轉化為優勢。我們需要歸納。所以，我要教各位一些訣竅，可以把誤解予以扭轉，成為一套經驗法則。 讓我們從第一種錯誤觀念開始。這是種很普遍的錯誤觀念。事情會每況愈下。你聽過。你自己也這麼想過。另一種思考的方向是，多數事情都會好轉。所以，當各位坐在那裡答題卻不確定該如何回答，那你就應該要猜「變好」。可以嗎？不要往壞的方向猜。這會幫助各位在測驗中得到更高分。（鼓掌）那是第一項訣竅。 世上有富人與窮人，而貧富差距正在擴大。這是種可惱的不平等。是啊，這是個不公平的世界，但當你檢視資料，卻呈現出單峰分布。好嗎？如果你不確定，就選「多數人都在中間」。這可以幫助各位答題正確。 另一個先入為主的觀念是，國家與人民必先富裕，然後社會才能進步，正如女性就學及對自然災害的準備。不對，那是錯誤的觀念。看，那些處在中間一大片單峰的地區已經解決了女性就學的問題。所以，如果各位不確定，就選擇「多數人已擁有該項，」比如電力供應和女性就學之類的。這些只是經驗法則，並不必然適用於所有事物，但這是各位可以進行歸納的方式。 最後一個訣竅。如果某件事...... 好，這個不錯。鯊魚很危險。不對哦..... 好吧，它們是危險的，但它們在全球的統計上並不顯著，這是我想表達的。實際上，我非常害怕鯊魚。所以，一旦遇到我所害怕的議題，像是地震，其他的宗教，我或許害怕恐怖份子或鯊魚，任何讓我覺得，認為你們會加以誇大的問題。那是種經驗法則。當然啦，某些危險的事也是很贊的。鯊魚獵殺人數很少。那是各位該想到的。 以這四條經驗法則，各位應該可以答得比黑猩猩好，因為黑猩猩無法做到。他們無法歸納出這種法則。希望我們可以扭轉各位的世界，並且讓大家打敗黑猩猩，好嗎？（掌聲）那是個系統性的方法。 現在問題在於，這重要嗎？是，重要的是瞭解貧窮，赤貧與如何對抗貧窮問題，還有如何讓女性就學。當我們明白實際上正在取得成功，我們就能瞭解它。但對於那些極端富裕的人們，這是否重要呢？我會說，是的，極端重要，基於同一種理由。若你具備以事實為基礎的世界觀，你或許有機會可以瞭解，接下來會發生什麼。 我們回到 1975 年這兩個高峰。那是我剛出生的時候，然後我選了西方，就是現在的歐盟與北美。我們來看看西方與世界其他地方，在富裕程度上的比較。這些是可以負擔搭飛機出國度假的人們。在 1975 年，這些人當中只有 30% 住在歐盟與北美以外。但這已經改變了，好嗎？所以，我們先看一下到目前，直到2014年的轉變。現在的比例是 50/50。就當下而言，西方主導時期已經結束。那很好，但接下來會怎樣？看到這巨峰嗎？看到它如何移動嗎？我做了個試驗。我到國際貨幣基金的網站。他們針對未來五年人均生產毛額進行了預測。所以我可以用以探究五年後的未來，假設每個國家的收入不均程度是相同的。但我更進一步，用那五年，以相同的速度，來預測未來二十年，以實驗性地探究未來會發生什麼。讓我們看看未來的情況。在 2020 年，西方以外有 57%，2025 年，是63%。2030 年，則是 68%。而 2035 年，西方在富人消費市場中完全被超越。這只是把人均生產毛額投射到未來。73% 的富裕消費人口，將住在北美與歐洲以外的地區。所以，我覺得這是個不錯的主意，讓公司以此認證在未來會基於事實來制訂政策。 非常謝謝各位。（掌聲） 感謝 Hans 和 Ola Rosling！
