Talk	en	zh-tw
harald_haas_a_breakthrough_new_kind_of_wireless_internet	"I would like to demonstrate for the first time in public that it is possible to transmit a video from a standard off-the-shelf LED lamp to a solar cell with a laptop acting as a receiver. There is no Wi-Fi involved, it's just light. And you may wonder, what's the point? And the point is this: There will be a massive extension of the Internet to close the digital divide, and also to allow for what we call ""The Internet of Things"" — tens of billions of devices connected to the Internet. In my view, such an extension of the Internet can only work if it's almost energy-neutral. This means we need to use existing infrastructure as much as possible. And this is where the solar cell and the LED come in. I demonstrated for the first time, at TED in 2011, Li-Fi, or Light Fidelity. Li-Fi uses off-the-shelf LEDs to transmit data incredibly fast, and also in a safe and secure manner. Data is transported by the light, encoded in subtle changes of the brightness. If we look around, we have many LEDs around us, so there's a rich infrastructure of Li-Fi transmitters around us. But so far, we have been using special devices — small photo detectors, to receive the information encoded in the data. I wanted to find a way to also use existing infrastructure to receive data from our Li-Fi lights. And this is why I have been looking into solar cells and solar panels. A solar cell absorbs light and converts it into electrical energy. This is why we can use a solar cell to charge our mobile phone. But now we need to remember that the data is encoded in subtle changes of the brightness of the LED, so if the incoming light fluctuates, so does the energy harvested from the solar cell. This means we have a principal mechanism in place to receive information from the light and by the solar cell, because the fluctuations of the energy harvested correspond to the data transmitted. Of course the question is: can we receive very fast and subtle changes of the brightness, such as the ones transmitted by our LED lights? And the answer to that is yes, we can. We have shown in the lab that we can receive up to 50 megabytes per second from a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell. And this is faster than most broadband connections these days. Now let me show you in practice. In this box is a standard, off-the-shelf LED lamp. This is a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell; it is connected to the laptop. And also we have an instrument here to visualize the energy we harvest from the solar cell. And this instrument shows something at the moment. This is because the solar cell already harvests light from the ambient light. Now what I would like to do first is switch on the light, and I'll simply, only switch on the light, for a moment, and what you'll notice is that the instrument jumps to the right. So the solar cell, for a moment, is harvesting energy from this artificial light source. If I turn it off, we see it drops. I turn it on ... So we harvest energy with the solar cell. But next I would like to activate the streaming of the video. And I've done this by pressing this button. So now this LED lamp here is streaming a video by changing the brightness of the LED in a very subtle way, and in a way that you can't recognize with your eye, because the changes are too fast to recognize. But in order to prove the point, I can block the light of the solar cell. So first you notice the energy harvesting drops and the video stops as well. If I remove the blockage, the video will restart. (Applause) And I can repeat that. So we stop the transmission of the video and energy harvesting stops as well. So that is to show that the solar cell acts as a receiver. But now imagine that this LED lamp is a street light, and there's fog. And so I want to simulate fog, and that's why I brought a handkerchief with me. (Laughter) And let me put the handkerchief over the solar cell. First you notice the energy harvested drops, as expected, but now the video still continues. This means, despite the blockage, there's sufficient light coming through the handkerchief to the solar cell, so that the solar cell is able to decode and stream that information, in this case, a high-definition video. What's really important here is that a solar cell has become a receiver for high-speed wireless signals encoded in light, while it maintains its primary function as an energy-harvesting device. That's why it is possible to use existing solar cells on the roof of a hut to act as a broadband receiver from a laser station on a close by hill, or indeed, lamp post. And It really doesn't matter where the beam hits the solar cell. And the same is true for translucent solar cells integrated into windows, solar cells integrated into street furniture, or indeed, solar cells integrated into these billions of devices that will form the Internet of Things. Because simply, we don't want to charge these devices regularly, or worse, replace the batteries every few months. As I said to you, this is the first time I've shown this in public. It's very much a lab demonstration, a prototype. But my team and I are confident that we can take this to market within the next two to three years. And we hope we will be able to contribute to closing the digital divide, and also contribute to connecting all these billions of devices to the Internet. And all of this without causing a massive explosion of energy consumption — because of the solar cells, quite the opposite. Thank you. (Applause)"	我第一次要在公開場合展示視頻可以由一個LED檯燈傳送到太陽能面板上，並由一台筆記型電腦播放出來。這當中沒有Wi-Fi 介入，只有光。 而你可能會想，這樣做有甚麼意義嗎？意義就是：網際網路即將會大規模的延伸，進而結束「數位落差」現象。並且連上我們所謂的「物聯網」——數十億的網路連結設備。 在我看來，這樣的網路延伸情況只能在「中性能源 」(低耗能)的情況下才能運作，意思就是，我們需要盡可能使用現存的基礎設施。所以這也是為什麼要有太陽能面板與LED燈的參與。 我第一次展示是在2011年的TED演講上。Li-Fi 簡稱「光保真」或者「光頻網路」Li-Fi 利用現成的LED，以驚人的速度傳送數據，而且是以安全隱密的方式傳輸。數據藉由光傳輸，以細微的亮度變化來編碼。如果我們環顧四周，在我們身邊有很多的LED燈，所以我們周圍有足夠的Li-Fi傳送設備。但目前為止，我們還在使用一種特殊設備—「小型照片偵測器」來接收數據裡編碼的資訊，我想找到一種方法，利用現存的基礎設施從Li-Fi燈來獲取數據，這也是為什麼我一直研究太陽能面板與太陽能控制板的原因。 太陽能面板吸收光源並把它轉換成電力。這也是為什麼我們可以利用太陽能面板來為我們的手機充電，但現在，我們需要記住，數據是被微小變化的LED光源所編碼，所以如果入射的光源有波動，從太陽能面板收集來的能量也會有波動。這意思就是，我們有一個主要的運作機制：資訊透過光的傳導，由太陽能面板來接收，因為收集的能量波動與傳輸的數據相對應。 當然問題就在：我們是否能夠收集到非常迅速和微小的亮度變化，比如通過我們的LED燈傳遞的那種方式一樣?答案是：是的，我們可以。我們已經在實驗室裡證實，我們可以透過一個標準現有的太陽能面板，每秒接收到50MB的數據，這比現今大部分的寬頻還要快。 現在，讓我實際操作給各位看，在這盒子裡是一個標準的、買來就可以用的LED燈，這個是標準現成的太陽能面板，它連結到筆記型電腦上，我們這裡也有一個儀器，用來觀測我們從太陽能面板收集到的能源。儀器目前顯示有些狀況發生，這是因為太陽能面板已經收集到周圍環境的光源， 現在我首先要做的是打開光源，只是簡單地開燈，等一段時間....你會注意到儀器指針跑到右邊，所以這個太陽能面板目前正在從這個人工光源收集能源。如果把它關掉，我們可以看到，指針往下掉再打開...我們就能從太陽能面板上收集到能源， 但接下來，我要啟動視頻播放。我已經設定好按下此按鈕即可，所以現在這個LED燈正透過亮度的細微變化來傳輸一個視頻，一種你無法用肉眼辨識的方式傳輸，因為變的太快以致於你無法辨識。但為了證明這一點，我可以擋住整個太陽能面板的光源，所以你可以看到，能量收集下降，視頻也跟著停止，如果我移開檔板，視頻就會重新開始。 (掌聲) 我可以再重複一遍。我們停止影片的傳送，能量收集也跟著停止，這可以證實，太陽能面板扮演了接收器的角色。 但是現在想像一下，這個LED燈是街燈，然後起霧了。我來模擬一下起霧時的情況，這也是為什麼我要隨身攜帶手帕的原因。 （笑聲） 讓我把手帕放在太陽能面板上，首先你會注意到，能量收集如預期的下降了，但現在視頻仍在播放，意思就是，儘管有阻礙物，只要有足夠的光源穿過手帕傳到太陽能面板，太陽能面板就可以編碼並傳輸資訊，就像這個範例，一個高解析度視頻。 重要的是，太陽能面板變成一個接收的介面，接收了光源的高速無線訊號編碼，同時也保持了它原本作為能源收集設備的基本功能。這也是為什麼，我們可以利用屋頂上的太陽能面板作為寬頻網路的接收器，無論是從附近山坡上的雷射光塔或是街邊的路燈。 從哪裡來的光束傳到太陽能面板並不要緊。並且實際上，窗戶上安裝的半透明太陽能面板、安裝在街邊設施的太陽能面板、甚至是安裝到這數十億個設備的太陽能面板，它們將會形成物聯網 。因為簡單來說，我們不想經常給這些設備充電，更不想每幾個月就要更換電池 我之前向各位說明，這是我第一次在公眾場合展示，這像是一個實驗室發表會，一個範例原型，但我的團隊與我都有信心，在未來的2~3年，我們這項產品會進入市場，而且我們都希望我們可以為「數位落差」現象做出貢獻，並且對串聯這些數十億個設備到網絡做出貢獻。而且所有設備都不會造成一個巨大的能源消耗 —因為太陽能面板是相當環保節能的。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
