Talk	en	zh-tw
harry_baker_a_love_poem_for_lonely_prime_numbers	"My name is Harry Baker. Harry Baker is my name. If your name was Harry Baker, then our names would be the same. (Laughter) It's a short introductory part. Yeah, I'm Harry. I study maths. I write poetry. So I thought I'd start with a love poem about prime numbers. (Laughter) This is called ""59."" I was going to call it ""Prime Time Loving."" That reaction is why I didn't. (Laughter) So, ""59."" 59 wakes up on the wrong  side of the bed. Realizes all his hair is  on one side of his head. Takes just under a minute to work out that it’s because of the way that he slept. He finds some clothes and gets dressed. He can’t help but look in the mirror and be subtly impressed How he looks rough around the edges and yet casually messed. And as he glances out the window, he sees the sight that he gets blessed with of 60 from across the street. Now 60 was beautiful. With perfectly trimmed cuticles, dressed in something suitable. Never rude or crude at all. Unimprovable, right on time as usual, more on cue than a snooker ball but liked to play it super cool. 59 wanted to tell her that he knew her favorite flower. He thought of her every second, every minute, every hour. But he knew it wouldn’t work, he’d never get the girl. Because although she lived  across the street they came from different worlds. While 59 admired 60’s perfectly round figure, 60 thought 59 was odd. (Laughter) One of his favorite films was ""101 Dalmatians."" She preferred the sequel. He romanticized the idea they were star-crossed lovers. They could overcome the odds and evens because they had each other. While she maintained the strict views imposed on her by her mother That separate could not be equal. And though at the time he felt stupid and dumb For trying to love a girl controlled by her stupid mum, He should have been comforted by the simple sum. Take 59 away from 60, and you’re left with the one. Sure enough after two months of moping around, 61 days later, 61 was who he found, He had lost his keys  and his parents were out. So one day after school  he went into a house As he noticed the slightly wonky numbers on the door, He wondered why he’d never introduced himself before, As she let him in, his jaw  dropped in awe. 61 was like 60, but a little bit more. (Laughter) She had prettier eyes, and an approachable smile, And like him, rough around the edges, casual style, And like him, everything was in disorganized piles, And like him, her mum didn’t mind if friends stayed a while. Because she was like him,  and he liked her. He reckoned she would like him if she knew he was like her, And it was different this time. I mean, this girl was wicked, So he plucked up the courage and asked for her digits. She said, ""I'm 61."" He grinned, said, ""I'm 59."" Today I’ve had a really nice time, So tomorrow if you wanted you could come over to mine? She said, ""Sure."" She loved talking to someone  just as quirky, She agreed to this unofficial first date. In the end he was only ready one minute early, But it didn’t matter because she arrived one minute late. And from that moment on there was nonstop chatter, How they loved ""X Factor,"" how they had two factors, How that did not matter, distinctiveness made them better, By the end of the night they knew they were meant together. And one day she was talking about stuck-up 60, She noticed that 59 looked a bit shifty. He blushed, told her of his crush: “The best thing that never happened because it led to us.” 61 was clever, see, not prone to jealousy, She looked him in the eyes and told him quite tenderly, ""You’re 59, I’m 61, together we combine to become twice what 60 could ever be."" (Laughter) At this point 59 had tears in his eyes, Was so glad to have this one-of-a-kind girl in his life. He told her the very definition of being prime Was that with only one and himself could his heart divide, And she was the one he wanted to give his heart to, She said she felt the same and now she knew the films were half true. Because that wasn't real love, that love was just a sample, When it came to real love, they were a prime example. Cheers. (Applause) That was the first poem that I wrote and it was for a prime number-themed  poetry night — (Laughter) — which turned out to be a prime number-themed poetry competition. And I became a prime number-themed poetry competition winner, or as I like to call it, a prime minister. (Laughter) And this is how I discovered these things called poetry slams, and if you don't know what  a poetry slam is, it was a format come up with in America 30 years ago as a way of tricking people into going to poetry events by putting an exciting word like ""slam"" on the end. (Laughter) And each performer got three minutes to perform and then random audience members would hold up scorecards, and they would end up with a numerical score, and what this meant is, it kind of broke down the barrier between performer and audience and encouraged the kind of connection with the listener. And what it also means is you can win. And if you win a poetry slam, you can call yourself a slam champion and pretend you're a wrestler, and if you lose a poetry slam you can say, ""Oh, what? Poetry's a subjective art form, you can't put numbers on such things."" (Laughter) But I loved it, and I got involved in these slams, and I became the U.K. slam champion and got invited to the Poetry World Cup in Paris, which was unbelievable. It was people from all around the world speaking in their native languages to be judged by five French strangers. (Laughter) And somehow, I won, which was great, and I've been able to travel the world since doing it, but it also means that this next piece is technically the best poem in the world. (Laughter) So... (Applause) According to five French strangers. So this is ""Paper People."" I like people. I'd like some paper people. They’d be purple paper people. Maybe pop-up purple paper people. Proper pop-up purple paper people. ""How do you prop up pop-up purple paper people?"" I hear you cry. Well I ... I’d probably prop up proper pop-up purple paper people with a proper pop-up purple people paperclip, but I’d pre-prepare appropriate adhesives as alternatives, a cheeky pack of Blu Tack just in case the paper slipped. Because I could build a pop-up metropolis. but I wouldn’t wanna deal with all the paper people politics. paper politicians with their paper-thin policies, broken promises without appropriate apologies. There’d be a little paper me. And a little paper you. And we could watch paper TV and it would all be pay-per-view. (Laughter) We’d see the poppy paper rappers rap about their paper package or watch paper people carriers get stuck in paper traffic on the A4. (Laughter) Paper. There’d be a paper princess Kate but we’d all stare at paper Pippa, and then we’d all live in fear of killer Jack the Paper-Ripper, because the paper propaganda propagates the people's prejudices, papers printing pictures of the photogenic terrorists. A little paper me. And a little paper you. And in a pop-up population people’s problems pop up too. There’d be a pompous paper parliament who remained out of touch, and who ignored the people's protests about all the paper cuts, then the peaceful paper protests would get blown to paper pieces, by the confetti cannons manned by pre-emptive police. And yes there’d still be paper money, so there’d still be paper greed, and the paper piggy bankers pocketing more than they need, purchasing the potpourri to pepper their paper properties, others live in poverty and ain’t acknowledged properly. A proper poor economy where so many are proper poor, but while their needs are ignored the money goes to big wars. Origami armies unfold plans for paper planes and we remain imprisoned in our own paper chains, but the greater shame is that it always seems to stay the same, what changes is who’s in power choosing how to lay the blame, they’re naming names, forgetting these are names of people, because in the end it all comes down to people. I like people. 'Cause even when the situation’s dire, it is only ever people who are able to inspire, and on paper, it’s hard to see how we all cope. But in the bottom of Pandora’s box there’s still hope, and I still hope 'cause I believe in people. People like my grandparents. Who every single day since I was born, have taken time out of their morning to pray for me. That’s 7892 days straight of someone checking I’m okay, and that’s amazing. People like my aunt who puts on plays with prisoners. People who are capable of genuine forgiveness. People like the persecuted Palestinians. People who go out of their way to make your life better, and expect nothing in return. You see, people have potential to be powerful. Just because the people in power tend to pretend to be victims we don’t need to succumb to that system. And a paper population is no different. There’s a little paper me. And a little paper you. And in a pop-up population people's problems pop up too, but even if the whole world fell apart then we’d still make it through. Because we’re people. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. I've just got time for one more. For me, poetry has been the ultimate way of ideas without frontiers. When I first started, the people who inspired me were the ones with the amazing stories, and I thought, as an 18-year-old with a happy life, it was too normal, but I could create these worlds where I could talk about my experiences and dreams and beliefs. So it's amazing to be here in front of you today. Thank you for being here. If you weren't here, it would be pretty much like the sound check yesterday. (Laughter) And this is more fun. So this last one is called ""The Sunshine Kid."" Thank you very much for listening. Old man sunshine was proud of his sun, And it brightened his day to see his little boy run, Not because of what he’d done, nor the problems overcome, But that despite that his disposition remained a sunny one. It hadn’t always been like this. There’d been times when he’d tried to hide his brightness, You see, every star hits periods of hardship, It takes a brighter light to inspire them through the darkness. If we go back to when he was born in a nebula, We know that he never was thought of as regular, Because he had a flair about him, To say the Midas touch is wrong But all he went near seemed to turn a little bronze, Yes this sun was loved by some more than others, It was a case of Joseph and his dreamcoat and his brothers Because standing out from the crowd had its pros and its cons, And jealousy created enemies in those he outshone Such as the Shadow People. Now the Shadow People didn’t like the Sunshine Kid, Because he showed up the dark things the Shadow People did, And when he shone he showed the places where the Shadow People hid, So the Shadow People had an evil plan to get rid of him, First up — they made fun of his sunspots, Shooting his dreams from the sky, their words were gunshots, Designed to remind him he wasn’t very cool And he didn’t fit in with any popular kids at school. They said his head was up in space and they would bring him down to Earth, Essentially he came from nothing and that is what he was worth, He’d never get to go to university to learn, Only degrees he’d ever show would be the first degree burns From those that came too close, they told him he was too bright, That’s why no one ever looked him in the eyes, His judgment became clouded So did the sky, With evaporated tears as the sun started to cry. Because the sunshine kid was bright, with a warm personality, And inside he burned savagely Hurt by the words and curses of the shadowy folk who spoke holes in his soul and left cavities, And as his heart hardened, his spark darkened, Every time they called him names it cooled his flames, He thought they might like him if he kept his light dim But they were busy telling lightning she had terrible aim, He couldn’t quite get to grips with what they said, So he let his light be eclipsed by what they said, He fell into a Lone Star State like Texas, And felt like he’d been punched in his solar plexus. But that’s when Little Miss Sunshine came along Singing her favorite song about how we’re made to be strong, And you don’t have to be wrong to belong, Just be true to who you are, because we are all stars at heart. Little Miss Sunshine was hot stuff, The kind of girl when you looked at her you forgot stuff, But for him, there was no forgetting her, The minute he saw her her image burned in his retina, She was out of this world, and she accepted him, Something about this girl meant he knew whenever she was next to him, Things weren’t as dark as they seemed, and he dared to dream, Shadows were nowhere to be seen; when she was there he beamed, His eyes would light up in ways that can’t be faked, When she grinned her rays erased the razor-tipped words of hate, They gave each other nicknames, they were ""cool star"" and ""fun sun,"" And gradually the shadowy damage became undone, She was one in a septillion, and she was brilliant, Could turn the coldest blooded reptilians vermillion, Loved by billions, from Chileans to Brazilians, And taught the Sunshine Kid the meaning of resilience. She said: “All the darkness in the world cannot put out the light from a single candle So how the hell can they handle your light? Only you can choose to dim it, and the sky is the limit, so silence the critics by burning.” And if eyes are windows to the soul then she drew back the curtains And let the sun shine through the hurting. In a universe of adversity these stars stuck together, And though days became nights the memories would last forever, Whether the weatherman said it or not, it would be fine, 'Cause even behind the clouds the kid could still shine. Yes, the Sunshine Kid was bright, with a warm personality, And inside he burned savagely, Fueled by the fire inspired across galaxies By the girl who showed him belief. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我的名字是哈里•貝克。哈里•貝克是我的名字。如果你的名字是哈里•貝克的話，那我們就是同名。（笑聲） 這段話是簡短的介紹語。 對，我是哈里。我學習數學。我還寫詩。所以我想，就先為大家念一首關於質數的情詩吧。（笑聲） 這首詩名叫「59」。我原本想將它命名為「黃金檔之戀」。各位的反應就是為什麼我沒有這樣做。（笑聲）嗯，「59」。「59」 正在生起床氣。原來他的頭髮全都在腦袋的一邊。花不到一分鐘時間就想明白，這是因為他睡覺的方式造成的。他找了衣服，穿著打扮完畢。他不禁看著鏡子裡的自己，心裡有股微妙的觸動，他看起來不修邊幅，有時還無端地陷入狼狽的處境。他往窗外瞥了一眼，看到一個景象，那就是他受到來自街對面「60」的 祝福。 60 則是美豔絕倫。 外表經過完美的打扮，衣著得體。 從沒有失禮或粗魯的行為。 不長進的搭訕，總說是巧合，比白球（撞球）還準時到達目地，卻總是不露聲色。 「59」 想要告訴 「60」，他知道她最喜歡的花。 他時時刻刻都在想著她。 但他知道，這一招不管用，他永遠追不到她。 儘管她就住在街對面，他們卻來自截然不同的世界。 當 「59」欣賞 「60」 那婀娜玲瓏的身姿時，60 覺得 59 這個奇數好奇怪。（笑聲） 他最喜歡的電影之一是「101忠狗」。 她卻喜歡那部電影的續集。 他幻想著他倆是一對不幸的戀人， 他們可以跨越奇偶數的差異，因為他們擁有彼此。 而她卻固守著母親強加給她的舊觀念， 奇偶之間的差距，永遠無法劃出等號。 儘管那時他感到愚鈍， 因為他愛著一個女孩，而她卻被自己愚蠢的母親控制著。 他早該從簡單的總和中找到安慰。 將 59 從 60 身邊移開，就只剩下 1 了，那便是真命天子。 當然啦，兩個月的悶悶不樂之後， 也就是 61 天後，59 找到了 61。 他把鑰匙弄丟了，父母也不在家。 所以有一天放學後，他走進一間房子， 正當他看到門口那有些搖晃的數字時， 他奇怪自己怎麼從未前來介紹自己。 她讓他進門，他簡直驚呆了。 61 就像 60 一樣，只不過比他多了一點點。（笑聲） 她的眼睛更漂亮，笑容很親切， 就像他一樣，她也是不修邊幅，風格很隨意。 就像他一樣，物品雜亂無章地堆砌著。 就像他一樣，她的媽媽也不介意朋友們是否多呆一會兒。 因為她就像他一樣，而他喜歡上了她。 他尋思著，她也會喜歡上自己的，如果她知道他們倆這麼像的話。 而這一次，真的不一樣了。我是說，這個女孩有魔力似的， 於是他鼓起勇氣問她要了號碼。 她說：「我是61。」他咧嘴笑道：「我是59」。 我今天過得很愉快。 明天，如果你願意，你能來我家玩嗎？ 她說：「當然啦。」 她喜歡跟和自己一樣古怪的人講話。 她答應了這一次非正式的初次約會。 最終，他在約定時間一分鐘前才准備好， 但沒關係，因為她在約定時間一分鐘後才到。 自那一刻起，兩人便侃侃而談， 他們有多喜歡「X 音素」節目，因為他們都有兩個「因素」， 而那沒有關係，因為差異讓他們更加美好。 夜色盡頭，他們知道彼此註定要廝守。 而有一天，她正談論著高傲的 60， 她注意到 59 有些目光閃躲。 他羞紅了臉，告訴她自己曾對 60 的迷戀： 「那是從未發生的事當中最美好的，因為那讓我們相遇。」 61 是個聰明的女孩，她沒有急著吃醋。 她看著他的眼睛，溫柔地告訴他： 「你是 59，我是 61，我們在一起就是 60 的兩倍。」（笑聲） 這一刻，59 眼裡噙著淚水， 為自己人生中能擁有這樣一個獨一無二的女孩而感到高興。 他告訴她，作為質數的終極定義 就是他的心能只能給「1」這真命天女和他自己， 而她就是讓他想交出真心的人。 她說她也有相同的感受，現在她知道電影都是半真半假的， 因為那並不是真愛，電影裡的愛只是一個範例。 而說到真愛，59 和 61 才是最佳質數愛侶 謝謝。 （掌聲） 那是我寫的第一首詩，是一個以質數為主題的詩歌之夜寫的—（笑聲）—其實是一場以質數為主題的詩歌競賽。而我贏得了這場以質數為主題的詩歌競賽，或者正如我喜歡這樣說，我成為了「首相」。（笑聲）而我就是這樣發現詼諧詩歌會的，如果你不知道詼諧詩歌會是什麼，那是 30 年前在美國出現的一種形式，它被用來慫恿人們參加詩歌活動，通過在句尾加上一個諸如「詼諧」之類的令人興奮的詞。（笑聲） 每個表演者有三分鐘進行表演，然後隨機的觀眾會舉起打分卡，這場表演就會得到一個分數，而這意味著，它破除了表演者和觀眾之間的障礙，鼓勵講者與聽者建立聯繫。這也意味著你有可能贏得比賽。如果你在一場詼諧詩歌會中獲勝，你就能自稱「詼諧詩冠軍」，假裝自己是個摔跤運動員。而如果你輸了，你也可以說：「那又怎樣？詩歌是主觀的藝術形式，你不能給它們打分啊！」（笑聲） 我可愛死它了，我也參與了這些詩歌會，然後我成為了英國的詼諧詩冠軍，並受邀參加在巴黎舉辦的詩歌世界盃，那真是令人難以置信。來自全球各地的人用他們的母語朗誦，然後被五個陌生的法國人評判。（笑聲）不知怎麼回事，我贏了，這很贊，而我因此得以環遊世界，但這也意味著，下一首詩真的是全世界最好的詩。（笑聲）那麼......（掌聲）根據這五位陌生法國人的評判。 所以這首詩叫「紙人」。 我喜歡人。 我想要一些紙人。 他們會是紫色紙人。或許是彈起式紫色紙人。 合適的彈起式紫色紙人。 「你該怎麼撐著彈起式紫色紙人呢？」 我聽到你在哭泣。呃，我... 我可能會撐著彈起式紫色紙人 用合適的彈起式紫色人形別針， 但是我會提前準備適當的貼膠以作為替補， 一疊厚厚的寶貼膠，以防紙張滑落。 因為我能搭建彈起式都市， 可我不想處理紙人的政治， 紙人政治家和他們薄如紙張的政策， 從未實現的承諾，卻也從未適當地道歉過。 會有一個小小的紙人版的我，和一個小小的紙人版的你。 我們可以一起看看紙質電視，電視都是紙（支）付觀看哦。（笑聲） 我們會看到流行紙張說唱歌手說唱著關於他們的紙盒包裝， 或者看著紙人裝載器堵塞在 A4 紙的紙交通中。（笑聲）紙。 會有一位紙公主凱特，但是我們都會盯著皮帕看， 而且我們都會生活在對「開紙手傑克」的恐懼中， 因為紙質政治宣傳語散佈著人們的偏見， 紙上印著上鏡的恐怖主義者的照片。 一個小小的紙質的我，和一個小小的紙質的你。 伴隨著彈起的人口數量，人們的問題也不斷增長。 華而不實的紙質議會總是不理政事， 而且對紙人們抗議剪紙統統都視而不見， 而紙人們的和平抗議會演化為紙屑灰飛煙滅， 紙警察們用彩紙炮彈先發制人。 當然啦還會有紙幣，所以也會有紙（止）不住的貪婪， 而貪婪的紙銀行家們中飽私囊， 購買了各種投資組合，散佈到他們的紙質房產中， 其他紙人卻活在貧賤之中，並未受到恰當認可。 一個貧窮的經濟體中許多人都十分貧窮， 但當他們的需求被忽視時，錢卻被投入戰爭中。 摺紙做成的軍隊展開了他們紙飛機的計劃， 而我們繼續被囚禁在自己的紙枷鎖中， 但更可恥的是，一切似乎都不曾改變， 只不過當權者換了一個又一個，他們選擇著如何推卸責任， 指名道姓地抨擊對手，忘了這些可都是人的名字， 因為說到底，都是關於人。 我喜歡人。 因為即使事態十分悲慘， 唯有人才能夠激勵人， 而紙上談兵，難以見真功夫。 但潘多拉魔盒的深處還蘊藏著希望， 而我依然懷抱希望，因為我相信人。 像我祖父母一樣的人。 自從我出生起，他們每一天都會在清晨抽出時間，為我祈禱。 7892 天連續不間斷地看看我是否安然無恙，那真是太神奇了。 像我嬸嬸一樣的人們，和犯人一起演出話劇。 那些能夠真正地寬恕他人的人。 就像那些被迫害的巴勒斯坦人。 那些特意費心思讓你的生活變得更加美好的人，他們卻從不期待任何回報。 你知道嗎，人們是有潛力變得強大的。 單單因為有權有勢的人往往會假裝成受害者， 並不意味著我們就要屈服於那個體制。 對於紙質人口來說亦然。 有一個小小的紙質的我。還有一個小小的紙質的你。 伴隨著彈起的人口數量，人們的問題也不斷增長。 但即使天崩地裂，我們也會撐過去的。 因為我們是人。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 非常感謝大家。我正好還有時間再念一首詩。 對我而言，詩歌是無國界傳遞思想的終極方法。當我剛剛開始寫詩時，激勵過我的那些人都有著精彩的故事，我當時想，我才 18 歲，生活無憂無慮，太普通了，但我可以創造出文字世界，用它們來談論自己的經歷、夢想和信仰。今天能夠站在大家面前，實在令我驚嘆。謝謝各位前來。如果各位沒來的話，那就會跟昨天的調音彩排一樣尷尬了。（笑聲）這樣更加有趣。 那麼最後一首詩叫做「陽光小子」。 多謝各位聆聽。 太陽老公公為他的兒子感到驕傲， 於是它照亮他的天空，看著他盡情奔跑。 倒不是因為他有過什麼成就，也不是因為跨越了困難， 儘管他的性情依舊開朗， 它卻並不總是這樣。 曾經有段時間，他試著掩飾自己的光芒。 你看，每顆恒星都有遇到困難的時候， 要獲得更閃亮的光芒才能激勵它們渡過黑暗的日子。 如果我們回到當他剛出生，還是一朵星雲的時候， 我們就知道他當初從不被認為是正常的， 因為他天資聰慧， 說「點石成金」都不足以形容。 但他長大後也只不過顯露出一絲銅色。 沒錯，有些人比另一些人更愛這顆太陽， 這就是聖經中雅各第十一子約瑟和他的神奇彩衣以及他兄弟們的故事。 因為鶴立雞群的後果總是有好有壞， 而嫉妒心讓那些沒有他耀眼的恒星視他為敵， 比如說「陰影人」。 陰影人不喜歡陽光小子， 因為他照射出陰影人曾做過的陰暗之事。 當他照耀大地時，他照射著陰影人的藏身之處， 於是陰影人想出了一個邪惡的計劃，來除掉太陽小子。 首先 ﹣ 他們嘲笑他的太陽黑子， 他們的話語如同射出的子彈，從空中向他的夢想射擊， 目的就是為了提醒他，他並沒有那麼酷。 而且他跟學校裡任何受歡迎的小孩都合不來。 他們說他的頭驕傲地高掛空中，他們要把他拽下來，讓他腳踏實地。 他出生貧賤，一文不值。 他從未能進入大學學習， 唯一能出示的等級證書是一級燒傷證明， 是他在那些靠的太近的人身上留下的，他們說他太耀眼了， 那也是為什麼從來都沒有人正眼看他。 他的判斷力被埋上一層陰影， 天空亦然，伴隨著蒸發的淚水， 太陽淚如雨下。 因為陽光小子太耀眼了，性格平易近人， 可他內心卻在狂野地燃燒， 被那些陰影傢伙的言語和詛咒傷害， 他們談及他靈魂的缺陷，在他身上留下傷痕。 他的心逐漸變硬，光芒日益暗淡， 他們每一次的咒罵都會澆熄他的火焰。 他以為他們會喜歡上他，如果他韜光養晦一些。 但他們卻忙於告訴閃電，她瞄得太不准了， 他無法認真對待他們所說的話， 於是便讓他的光芒，受那流言蜚語的侵蝕。 他變成了一顆孤星，正如德州的別名， 而且感到他的心頭被狠狠一擊。 但此時陽光小姐降臨， 唱著她最愛的歌，關於我們如何變得堅強， 你無須犯錯才能找到歸屬感，只需真誠地面對自己， 因為本質上，我們都是恒星。 陽光小姐炙熱而妖豔， 是那種女孩，當你看著她的時候， 你就會忘了其他事情。 但對他來說，絕不會忘記她。 見到她的那一刻，她的樣子就深深地烙在他眼底。 她不屬於這個世界，卻接受了他。 他知道這個女孩有個特點，每一次她在身邊時， 事情就不會像它們看上去那般黑暗，他也就敢於夢想。 陰影無處可見，她在身旁時他愈發閃耀， 他目光如炬，無法炮製； 當她露齒而笑時，她的光芒消滅了如刀片般鋒利的惡言惡語。 他們互相為對方取暱稱，「酷恒星」和「樂驕陽」。 漸漸地，陰影帶來的傷害消失了。 她是億萬裡挑一，她耀眼無比， 能將最冷血的卑鄙小人變成一個熱心腸， 集萬千寵愛於一身，從智利人到巴西人都熱愛她， 她還教會了陽光小子堅韌的真諦。 她說：「這世上的所有黑暗 都無法熄滅一支蠟燭發出的光芒， 那些陰影人又怎麼阻擋的住你的萬丈光芒呢？ 只有你才能熄滅自己的光芒，而這片天就是極限，所以，燃燒吧，讓批評全都閉嘴！」 如果眼睛是心靈的窗戶，那麼她拉開了窗簾， 讓陽光透過傷痕照射進來。 在充滿逆境的宇宙中，這些恒星緊緊依靠在一起， 儘管歲月流逝，這些記憶會永存。 不管天氣預報員怎麼說，天氣都會晴朗，一切安好， 因為即使是在烏雲之後，陽光小子依然耀眼。 沒錯，陽光小子很耀眼，性格平易近人， 而他的內心炙熱地燃燒， 充滿了能量，那炙熱的火焰跨越星系， 來自那個女孩毫不動搖的信念。 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲）
