Talk	en	zh-tw
hector_garcia_we_train_soldiers_for_war_let_s_train_them_to_come_home_too	"Carlos, the Vietnam vet Marine who volunteered for three tours and got shot up in every one. In 1971, he was medically retired because he had so much shrapnel in his body that he was setting off metal detectors. For the next 42 years, he suffered from nightmares, extreme anxiety in public, isolation, depression. He self-medicated with alcohol. He was married and divorced three times. Carlos had post-traumatic stress disorder. Now, I became a psychologist to help mitigate human suffering, and for the past 10 years, my target has been the suffering caused by PTSD, as experienced by veterans like Carlos. Until recently, the science of PTSD just wasn't there. And so, we didn't know what to do. We put some veterans on heavy drugs. Others we hospitalized and gave generic group therapy, and others still we simply said to them, ""Just go home and try to forget about your experiences."" More recently, we've tried therapy dogs, wilderness retreats — many things which may temporarily relieve stress, but which don't actually eliminate PTSD symptoms over the long term. But things have changed. And I am here to tell you that we can now eliminate PTSD, not just manage the symptoms, and in huge numbers of veterans. Because new scientific research has been able to show, objectively, repeatedly, which treatments actually get rid of symptoms and which do not. Now as it turns out, the best treatments for PTSD use many of the very same training principles that the military uses in preparing its trainees for war. Now, making war — this is something that we are good at. We humans have been making war since before we were even fully human. And since then, we have gone from using stone and sinew to developing the most sophisticated and devastating weapon systems imaginable. And to enable our warriors to use these weapons, we employ the most cutting-edge training methods. We are good at making war. And we are good at training our warriors to fight. Yet, when we consider the experience of the modern-day combat veteran, we begin to see that we have not been as good at preparing them to come home. Why is that? Well, our ancestors lived immersed in conflict, and they fought right where they lived. So until only very recently in our evolutionary history, there was hardly a need to learn how to come home from war, because we never really did. But thankfully, today, most of humanity lives in far more peaceful societies, and when there is conflict, we, especially in the United States, now have the technology to put our warriors through advanced training, drop them in to fight anywhere on the globe and when they're done, jet them back to peacetime suburbia. But just imagine for a moment what this must feel like. I've spoken with veterans who've told me that one day they're in a brutal firefight in Afghanistan where they saw carnage and death, and just three days later, they found themselves toting an ice chest to their kid's soccer game. ""Mindfuck"" is the most common term. (Laughter) It's the most common term I've heard to describe that experience. And that's exactly what that is. Because while our warriors spend countless hours training for war, we've only recently come to understand that many require training on how to return to civilian life. Now, like any training, the best PTSD treatments require repetition. In the military, we don't simply hand trainees Mark-19 automatic grenade launchers and say, ""Here's the trigger, here's some ammo and good luck."" No. We train them, on the range and in specific contexts, over and over and over until lifting their weapon and engaging their target is so engrained into muscle memory that it can be performed without even thinking, even under the most stressful conditions you can imagine. Now, the same holds for training-based treatments. The first of these treatments is cognitive therapy, and this is a kind of mental recalibration. When veterans come home from war, their way of mentally framing the world is calibrated to an immensely more dangerous environment. So when you try to overlay that mind frame onto a peacetime environment, you get problems. You begin drowning in worries about dangers that aren't present. You begin not trusting family or friends. Which is not to say there are no dangers in civilian life; there are. It's just that the probability of encountering them compared to combat is astronomically lower. So we never advise veterans to turn off caution completely. We do train them, however, to adjust caution according to where they are. If you find yourself in a bad neighborhood, you turn it up. Out to dinner with family? You turn it way down. We train veterans to be fiercely rational, to systematically gauge the actual statistical probability of encountering, say, an IED here in peacetime America. With enough practice, those recalibrations stick. The next of these treatments is exposure therapy, and this is a kind of field training, and the fastest of the proven effective treatments out there. You remember Carlos? This was the treatment that he chose. And so we started off by giving him exercises, for him, challenging ones: going to a grocery store, going to a shopping mall, going to a restaurant, sitting with his back to the door. And, critically — staying in these environments. Now, at first he was very anxious. He wanted to sit where he could scan the room, where he could plan escape routes, where he could get his hands on a makeshift weapon. And he wanted to leave, but he didn't. He remembered his training in the Marine Corps, and he pushed through his discomfort. And every time he did this, his anxiety ratcheted down a little bit, and then a little bit more and then a little bit more, until in the end, he had effectively relearned how to sit in a public space and just enjoy himself. He also listened to recordings of his combat experiences, over and over and over. He listened until those memories no longer generated any anxiety. He processed his memories so much that his brain no longer needed to return to those experiences in his sleep. And when I spoke with him a year after treatment had finished, he told me, ""Doc, this is the first time in 43 years that I haven't had nightmares."" Now, this is different than erasing a memory. Veterans will always remember their traumatic experiences, but with enough practice, those memories are no longer as raw or as painful as they once were. They don't feel emotionally like they just happened yesterday, and that is an immensely better place to be. But it's often difficult. And, like any training, it may not work for everybody. And there are trust issues. Sometimes I'm asked, ""If you haven't been there, Doc, how can you help me?"" Which is understandable. But at the point of returning to civilian life, you do not require somebody who's been there. You don't require training for operations on the battlefield; you require training on how to come home. For the past 10 years of my work, I have been exposed to detailed accounts of the worst experiences that you can imagine, daily. And it hasn't always been easy. There have been times where I have just felt my heart break or that I've absorbed too much. But these training-based treatments work so well, that whatever this work takes out of me, it puts back even more, because I see people get better. I see people's lives transform. Carlos can now enjoy outings with his grandchildren, which is something he couldn't even do with his own children. And what's amazing to me is that after 43 years of suffering, it only took him 10 weeks of intense training to get his life back. And when I spoke with him, he told me, ""I know that I can't get those years back. But at least now, whatever days that I have left on this Earth, I can live them in peace."" He also said, ""I hope that these younger veterans don't wait to get the help they need."" And that's my hope, too. Because ... this life is short, and if you are fortunate enough to have survived war or any kind of traumatic experience, you owe it to yourself to live your life well. And you shouldn't wait to get the training you need to make that happen. Now, the best way of ending human suffering caused by war is to never go to war. But we are just not there yet as a species. Until we are, the mental suffering that we create in our sons and in our daughters when we send them off to fight can be alleviated. But we must ensure that the science, the energy level, the value that we place on sending them off to war is at the very least mirrored in how well we prepare them to come back home to us. This much, we owe them. Thank you. (Applause)"	卡洛斯，越戰海軍陸戰隊老兵，他自願參與了三次戰役，每次戰役他都受了槍傷。在1971年，他因身體上的問題退役了。因為他體內有太多的子彈碎片會觸發金屬探測儀。在接下來的42年當中，他惡夢連連，在公共場所會極度不安，感到孤立、沮喪。他用酒精麻醉自己。結婚三次又離婚三次。卡洛斯患有創傷後壓力症候群（PTSD）。現在，我成為一名幫助人們減輕痛苦的心理學家，在過去的10年，我專注在像卡洛斯這樣受PTSD所苦的退伍軍人作為我的研究目標。直到最近，有關PTSD的科學研究還不是很多，因此，我們並不知道應該怎樣做。我們讓一部分退伍軍人大量服藥。另一部分則讓他們住院觀察，進行一般性的團體治療，其他的我們只是對他們說：「回家吧，嘗試著去忘掉你的過去。」最近，我們還嘗試用治療犬、野外療養——很多能夠短期減緩壓力的方式，但並不能長期根除PTSD的症狀。但是事情已經有所改變了。我今天來是想告訴各位，我們已經可以徹底根除PTSD了，不僅僅是控制那些症狀，而且可以運用在大量的退伍軍人身上。因為最新的科學研究已經客觀的、重覆的顯示哪些治療可以消除症狀，而哪些不行。現在，結果表明，PTSD的最佳治療方式，與軍隊訓練士兵備戰的準則有幾分相似。而製造戰爭——是我們擅長的事情。我們人類一直都在製造戰爭，甚至在我們還沒成為人類之前就開始了。最那之後，我們從使用石頭、肌腱、到發展你能想像到的最覆雜、最具毀滅性的武器系統。且為了使我們的戰士能夠使用這些武器我們會用最先進的訓練方式訓練他們。我們善於制造戰爭。我們善於鍛鍊我們的士兵去作戰。但是，當我們思考現代戰爭老兵的經歷時，我們就會意識到，我們在協助老兵回家這件事上並不擅長。為什麽會這樣呢？我們的祖先生活在沖突當中，他們會在他們生活的地方進行戰鬥。所以直到人類的進代進化史，人類是沒有學習如何回家的需求的，因為我們從來不這麼做。但如今值得慶幸的是，大多數人都居住在相當和平的社會中，當衝突發生時，特別是我們美國人，我們有先進的科技可以訓練士兵，把他們送到世界各地打仗，當戰爭結束時，再把他們載回和平地區。但是讓我們想象一下這種感受。我和那些退伍戰士聊過，他們告訴我，當你有一天身處阿富汗殘暴的戰火之中，目睹到殺戮和死亡，只要三天的時間，他們就會發現他們竟在孩子的足球比賽中找冰櫃當掩護。「腦袋作怪」是他們最常使用的詞匯。（笑聲）這是我最常聽到用於描述那種經歷的術語。而那就是他們所經歷的。因為我們花大量的時間讓士兵備戰，卻直到最近才意識到他們也需要被訓練學習如何回歸平民生活。如同任何訓練一樣，最佳的PTSD治療方式也需要重複進行。在軍隊中，我們不會丟一把Mark-19自動榴彈槍給新兵，然後跟他說，「這裏是扳機，還有一些彈藥，祝你好運。」不，我們會在不同的領域及特定背景中訓練他們，一遍又一遍的訓練，直到他們拿起武器，瞄準目標的行為，深深地刻在肌肉的記憶體當中，即使在任何你想像的到的緊張時刻，這一系列行為也能夠不經思索的被執行出來。這些也同樣適用於以訓練為基礎的治療上。治療的第一步是認知治療，這是一種「精神重新修正」的療程。當老兵從戰場中回到家裏時，因為長時間在危險環境中生活造成他們對世界的認知方式有誤。所以當你試圖將和平環境覆蓋掉他的認知時，麻煩就會出現。你會煩惱沈浸在一種不存在的危險當中。你開始不信任家人和朋友。我並不是說平民生活中就沒有危險；還是有。只是說遇到危險的幾率，相比戰爭中而言，是極低的。所以我們從不建議退伍軍人徹底關閉他們的警惕性。而是訓練他們，根據所處的環境，調整他們的警惕程度。如果你發現身處在惡劣的環境中，你就要開啟警惕。和家人一起在外吃飯呢？你就應該把它調節到很低。我們訓練退伍軍人，讓他們變得相當理智，讓他們能夠系統化的衡量目前所處的環境，比如說，身處在和平時期的美國被安裝簡易爆炸裝置的可能性。有了足夠的練習，那些重新校正的認知就會留存。治療的下一步是暴露療法，就好像實地演習，也是所有被證明有效的療法中最快見效的。你們還記得卡洛斯嗎？這就是他選擇的治療方案。所以我們從給他一些練習開始，像是對他來說，最具挑戰性的：去雜貨店、去商場、餐廳、背對著門坐著。而且，最重要的——要停留在這些環境當中。剛開始的時候，他表現的非常不安。他希望能夠坐在一個可以掃視整個餐廳的位置，讓他可以計劃逃脫路線，讓他可以隨手拿到臨時武器的地方。他很想離開那兒，但是他沒有。他想起了他在海軍陸戰隊的訓練，他戰勝了他的不安情緒。每當他這樣做時，他的焦慮感就會逐漸減少，然後再減少一點點，再減少一點兒，直到最後，他就能夠重新學會如何坐在公共場所當中好好地享受他自己的時光。他也會聽他戰時經歷的錄音，一遍又一遍地聽。他不斷聽這些錄音，直到不再對它們產生不安情緒他不斷地經歷那些回憶，讓他在睡夢中，腦子不再需要回到那些經歷中。在他治療結束一年之後與他交流時，他告訴我：「醫生，這是我在43年當中第一次沒有做惡夢。」這不同於清除你的回憶。退伍軍人會永遠記得他們的創痛經歷，但透過足夠的訓練，那些回憶將不再像以往那樣鮮活、那樣痛苦。他們不再感到那些經歷恍如昨日，這是一個巨大的進步。但這並不簡單。而且，就像是任何訓練一樣，它不一定適用於所有人。而且，還存在信任問題。有時，我會被問道：「醫生，如果你從未經歷戰場，你要如何幫我？」這是可以被理解的。但是要回歸平民生活，你並不需要一個經歷過戰場的人。你不需要訓練戰場上的行為；你需要訓練如何回到家中。在我過去十年的工作經歷當中，我已經接觸過任何你們能想像到最糟糕的經歷細節，幾乎每天都會接觸到。那的確不容易，很多時候，我會感到心痛，或者太過投入。但是這些以訓練為基礎的治療方法太有效了，因此，無論這個工作都辛苦，我都覺得很有價值，因為我看到了人們正在變好。我看到了人們的生活正在發生轉變。卡洛斯已經可以和他的孫子們一起出去玩了，甚至玩一些以前他無法跟自己孩子一起玩的東西。對我來說最驚喜的是在43年的折磨之後，他只花了10周的時間進行高強度的訓練，他就重獲了他的人生。當我和他交流的時候，他告訴我：「我知道我無法挽回那些錯過的歲月。但至少現在，無論在這世上我還剩下多少時間，我可以在平靜中度過。」他還說：「我希望那些年輕的退伍軍人不要為他們需要的幫助猶豫。」那也是我所希望的。因為，人生是短暫的，如果你們有幸在戰爭當中或是各種創傷性經歷中幸存下來，你虧欠自己一個美好的人生。所以，你們不該等待接受那些幫助你獲得美好人生的訓練。現在，能夠避免戰後創傷的最佳方式，就是避免戰爭。但是我們人類還沒有達到那樣的境界。在那之前，當我們把子女送去戰場，所造成的精神折磨是可以被緩解的。但是我們必須要確保我們將他們送去戰場時那些科學、資源水準、價值觀，至少是要能夠反應我們會好好地準備讓他們回到家中的水準。因為我們欠他們的，遠比我們給的多。謝謝。（掌聲）
