Talk	en	zh-tw
henry_lin_what_we_can_learn_from_galaxies_far_far_away	"Here are some images of clusters of galaxies. They're exactly what they sound like. They are these huge collections of galaxies, bound together by their mutual gravity. So most of the points that you see on the screen are not individual stars, but collections of stars, or galaxies. Now, by showing you some of these images, I hope that you will quickly see that galaxy clusters are these beautiful objects, but more than that, I think galaxy clusters are mysterious, they are surprising, and they're useful. Useful as the universe's most massive laboratories. And as laboratories, to describe galaxy clusters is to describe the experiments that you can do with them. And I think there are four major types, and the first type that I want to describe is probing the very big. So, how big? Well, here is an image of a particular galaxy cluster. It is so massive that the light passing through it is being bent, it's being distorted by the extreme gravity of this cluster. And, in fact, if you look very carefully you'll be able to see rings around this cluster. Now, to give you a number, this particular galaxy cluster has a mass of over one million billion suns. It's just mind-boggling how  massive these systems can get. But more than their mass, they have this additional feature. They are essentially isolated systems, so if we like, we can think of them as a scaled-down version of the entire universe. And many of the questions that we might have about the universe at large scales, such as, how does gravity work? might be answered by studying these systems. So that was very big. The second things is very hot. Okay, if I take an image of a galaxy cluster, and I subtract away all of the starlight, what I'm left with is this big, blue blob. This is in false color. It's actually X-ray light that we're seeing. And the question is, if it's not galaxies, what is emitting this light? The answer is hot gas, million-degree gas — in fact, it's plasma. And the reason why it's so hot goes back to the previous slide. The extreme gravity of these systems is accelerating particles of gas to great speeds, and great speeds means great temperatures. So this is the main idea, but science is a rough draft. There are many basic properties about this plasma that still confuse us, still puzzle us, and still push our understanding of the physics of the very hot. Third thing: probing the very small. Now, to explain this, I need to tell you a very disturbing fact. Most of the universe's matter is not made up of atoms. You were lied to. Most of it is made up of something  very, very mysterious, which we call dark matter. Dark matter is something that  doesn't like to interact very much, except through gravity, and of course we would like to learn more about it. If you're a particle physicist, you want to know what happens  when we smash things together. And dark matter is no exception. Well, how do we do this? To answer that question, I'm going to have to ask another one, which is, what happens when galaxy clusters collide? Here is an image. Since galaxy clusters are representative slices of the universe, scaled-down versions. They are mostly made up of dark matter, and that's what you see in this bluish purple. The red represents the hot gas, and, of course, you can see many galaxies. What's happened is a particle accelerator at a huge, huge scale. And this is very important, because what it means is that very, very small effects that might be difficult to detect in the lab, might be compounded and compounded into something that we could  possibly observe in nature. So, it's very funny. The reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about dark matter, the reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about the physics of the very small, is precisely because they are so very big. Fourth thing: the physics of the very strange. Certainly what I've said so far is crazy. Okay, if there's anything stranger I think it has to be dark energy. If I throw a ball into the air, I expect it to go up. What I don't expect is that it go up at an ever-increasing rate. Similarly, cosmologists understand why the universe is expanding. They don't understand why it's expanding at an ever-increasing rate. They give the cause of this accelerated expansion a name, and they call it dark energy. And, again, we want to learn more about it. So, one particular question that we have is, how does dark energy affect the universe at the largest scales? Depending on how strong it is, maybe structure forms faster or slower. Well, the problem with the large-scale structure of the universe is that it's horribly complicated. Here is a computer simulation. And we need a way to simplify it. Well, I like to think about this using an analogy. If I want to understand the sinking of the Titanic, the most important thing to do is not to model the little positions of every single little piece of the boat that broke off. The most important thing to do is to track the two biggest parts. Similarly, I can learn a lot about the universe at the largest scales by tracking its biggest pieces and those biggest pieces are clusters of galaxies. So, as I come to a close, you might feel slightly cheated. I mean, I began by talking about how galaxy clusters are useful, and I've given some reasons, but what is their use really? Well, to answer this, I want to give you a quote by Henry Ford when he was asked about cars. He had this to say: ""If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses."" Today, we as a society are faced with many, many difficult problems. And the solutions to these  problems are not obvious. They are not faster horses. They will require an enormous amount of scientific ingenuity. So, yes, we need to focus, yes, we need to concentrate, but we also need to remember that innovation, ingenuity, inspiration — these things come when we broaden our field of vision when we step back when we zoom out. And I can't think of a better way to do this than by studying the universe around us. Thanks. (Applause)"	這是一些星團的照片。它們貌如其名，是多個星系的龐大集合。它們通過相互的引力而吸引在一起。因此，你在屏幕上看到的大部分的點並非是單獨的恆星，而是一系列恆星，或者是我們所稱之星系。現在看了​​這些圖片之後我希望你已經發現，星團是多麼美麗的物體，但絕非僅限於此我認為星團神秘莫測、令人嘆為觀止，並且具有巨大使用價值。其價值，就如同是宇宙裡規模最大的實驗室。要描述星團，就跟評估一個實驗室一樣，要去描述這個實驗室能讓你做的實驗。我認為這包括四種主要類型：我想描述的第一類是探測「極大」。到底有多大？這是某個星團的照片。它的質量非常大，以至於光在經過的時候，也會由於其引力的作用，而發生彎曲。事實上，如果你仔細看，你能夠看到這個星團周圍的光環。如果要給出一個具體數字，這個星團的質量有超過10的15次方個太陽那麼大。這些系統質量之巨大簡直讓人瞠目結舌。但除了質量巨大這個特點之外，它們還有其他特殊之處。這些星系基本上可以是孤立的系統。如果願意的話，我們可以將它們想像為整個宇宙的縮小版。我們對於宏觀的宇宙還存在很多疑問。比如，引力是怎麼起作用的？這些問題可能可以通過研究這些系統來找到答案。這，就是「極大」。第二個，是「極熱」。好的，如果我拿出一幅星團的照片，去掉其中所有的星光，剩下的，只是這個巨大的藍色斑塊。當然，這些顏色都不是真的。我們實際看到的是X射線。但問題是，假如發出X射線的，不是這些星系，又是什麼呢？答案是高溫氣體，一百萬度的氣體。事實上，這些氣體是等離子。而它們的溫度如此之高的原因，在於前一張幻燈片。這些系統的超強引力將氣體粒子加速到非常高的速度，而高速則意味著高溫。這是主要的推測，但是科學畢竟是一副草圖。其中尚存在等離子氣體的很多基本特徵，讓我們無法解釋，仍然是個謎，仍需不斷增加我們對超高溫物理的理解。第三個是：研究「極小」。要解釋這個類型，我要向大家說一件讓人困擾的事實。宇宙中的大部分物質並非由原子構成。你們以前都被騙了。宇宙的大部分物質是由一種非常神秘的物質組成，我們稱之為暗物質。暗物質並不喜歡與周圍物質反應，除非是在有引力的情況下。當然，我們也希望更多地了解暗物質。假設你是粒子物理學家，你會想知道，物體撞擊時，會出現什麼情況。暗物質也不例外。那麼，我們該怎麼做呢？為了回答這個問題，我們不得不提出另一個問題。那就是：要是星團發生碰撞，會有什麼結果？這是一張照片。既然我們可以把星團看作縮小版的宇宙。星團大部分也是由暗物質構成，就是你所看到的藍紫色的那些。紅色代表高溫氣體，當然，你可以看到很多星系。這些就相當於一部巨型粒子加速器。這很重要，因為這意味著那些難以在實驗室裡檢測到的細微現象可能由於基數不斷地疊加，而使我們於自然界觀測得到。相當有趣。為什麼星團可以教我們暗物質的知識？為什麼星團可以指導我們「極小」物質之物理？這正正是因為星團相當巨型。第四個：「奇異」之物的物理。我剛才說的聽上去已經很瘋狂了，但是，如果有比那些更瘋狂的，我認為就是暗能量了。我把一個球扔向空中，我會預計它將上升，但是我不會想到球會以持續加速度上升。同樣道理，宇宙學家們理解為什麼宇宙在膨脹。但他們不理解的是為什麼宇宙膨脹的速度持續加快。他們給引起加速膨脹的原因取了個名字，叫做暗能量。同樣，我們希望更多地了解暗能量。其中一個問題是暗能量是如何在最大程度上影響宇宙？這取決於能量的強弱，或者結構的形成的快慢。但是這個擁有如此大型結構的宇宙所存在的問題是宇宙大得恐怖。這是一張電腦模擬圖。我們需要想方法簡化它。我喜歡用類比的方式來看待它。如果我想理解鐵達尼號沉沒的過程，最重要的，不是去模擬船身所有碎片的位置。最重要的是，追踪船體最大的兩個斷裂快的位置。同樣，我可以通過追踪宇宙中最大的部件，對宇宙有最大程度的了解，而最大的部件就是這些星團。現在我即將結尾。大家可能覺得有點上當了。我的意思是，一開始我談到星團具有哪些價值。我也給了一些理由。但是他們真正的用處在哪裡呢？為了回答這個我要引用亨利·福特的一句話。當有人問他關於汽車的事情時，他這樣說：「如果我之前問人們他們想要什麼，他們只會回答說，更快的馬。」如今，我們社會面臨很多、很多棘手的問題。這些問題的解決之道並非顯而易見。辦法不是「更快的馬」。而是需要更多的科學智慧。所以沒錯，我們需要有針對性，我們需要專心，但我們也要謹記，創新、創造力和靈感，當我們開闊眼界時，當我們退後一步時，當我們聚焦問題時，這三樣——創新、創造力和靈感——自會來到。要做到以上，恐怕除了研究學習我們周圍的宇宙，就別無其他更好的辦法了。謝謝。（掌聲）
