Talk	en	zh-tw
hetain_patel_who_am_i_think_again	"Hetain Patel: (In Chinese) Yuyu Rau: Hi, I'm Hetain. I'm an artist. And this is Yuyu, who is a dancer I have been working with. I have asked her to translate for me. HP: (In Chinese) YR: If I may, I would like to tell you a little bit about myself and my artwork. HP: (In Chinese) YR: I was born and raised near Manchester, in England, but I'm not going to say it in English to you, because I'm trying to avoid any assumptions that might be made from my northern accent. (Laughter) HP: (In Chinese) YR: The only problem with masking it with Chinese Mandarin is I can only speak this paragraph, which I have learned by heart when I was visiting in China. (Laughter) So all I can do is keep repeating it in different tones and hope you won't notice. (Laughter) HP: (In Chinese) (Laughter) YR: Needless to say, I would like to apologize to any Mandarin speakers in the audience. As a child, I would hate being made to wear the Indian kurta pajama, because I didn't think it was very cool. It felt a bit girly to me, like a dress, and it had this baggy trouser part you had to tie really tight to avoid the embarrassment of them falling down. My dad never wore it, so I didn't see why I had to. Also, it makes me feel a bit uncomfortable, that people assume I represent something genuinely Indian when I wear it, because that's not how I feel. HP: (In Chinese) YR: Actually, the only way I feel comfortable wearing it is by pretending they are the robes of a kung fu warrior like Li Mu Bai from that film, ""Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon."" (Music) Okay. So my artwork is about identity and language, challenging common assumptions based on how we look like or where we come from, gender, race, class. What makes us who we are anyway? HP: (In Chinese) YR: I used to read Spider-Man comics, watch kung fu movies, take philosophy lessons from Bruce Lee. He would say things like — HP: Empty your mind. (Laughter) Be formless, shapeless, like water. Now you put water into a cup. It becomes the cup. You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle. Put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot. Now, water can flow or it can crash. Be water, my friend. (Applause) YR: This year, I am 32 years old, the same age Bruce Lee was when he died. I have been wondering recently, if he were alive today, what advice he would give me about making this TED Talk. HP: Don't imitate my voice. It offends me. (Laughter) YR: Good advice, but I still think that we learn who we are by copying others. Who here hasn't imitated their childhood hero in the playground, or mum or father? I have. HP: A few years ago, in order to make this video for my artwork, I shaved off all my hair so that I could grow it back as my father had it when he first emigrated from India to the U.K. in the 1960s. He had a side parting and a neat mustache. At first, it was going very well. I even started to get discounts in Indian shops. (Laughter) But then very quickly, I started to underestimate my mustache growing ability, and it got way too big. It didn't look Indian anymore. Instead, people from across the road, they would shout things like — HP and YR: Arriba! Arriba! Ándale! Ándale! (Laughter) HP: Actually, I don't know why I am even talking like this. My dad doesn't even have an Indian accent anymore. He talks like this now. So it's not just my father that I've imitated. A few years ago I went to China for a few months, and I couldn't speak Chinese, and this frustrated me, so I wrote about this and had it translated into Chinese, and then I learned this by heart, like music, I guess. YR: This phrase is now etched into my mind clearer than the pin number to my bank card, so I can pretend I speak Chinese fluently. When I had learned this phrase, I had an artist over there hear me out to see how accurate it sounded. I spoke the phrase, and then he laughed and told me, ""Oh yeah, that's great, only it kind of sounds like a woman."" I said, ""What?"" He said, ""Yeah, you learned from a woman?"" I said, ""Yes. So?"" He then explained the tonal differences between male and female voices are very different and distinct, and that I had learned it very well, but in a woman's voice. (Laughter) (Applause) HP: Okay. So this imitation business does come with risk. It doesn't always go as you plan it, even with a talented translator. But I am going to stick with it, because contrary to what we might usually assume, imitating somebody can reveal something unique. So every time I fail to become more like my father, I become more like myself. Every time I fail to become Bruce Lee, I become more authentically me. This is my art. I strive for authenticity, even if it comes in a shape that we might not usually expect. It's only recently that I've started to understand that I didn't learn to sit like this through being Indian. I learned this from Spider-Man. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	赫頓：（中文）我們可以透過學習不同的語言，來認識不同的文化嗎？除了要學習口音和腔調以外，還有手勢。 宇玉：嗨，我是赫頓，我是藝術家。這位是宇玉，她是和我一起工作的舞者，我請她擔任我的翻譯。 赫頓：（中文）更重要的是，手勢特有的習慣和動作。 宇玉：如果可以的話，我想向你簡單介紹我自己和我的藝術作品。 赫頓：（中文）我們可以透過學習不同的語言，來認識不同的文化嗎？ 宇玉：我在英國的曼徹斯特出生和成長，但是我不打算對你說英文，因為我想避免任何我的北方口音可能造成的誤解。 （笑聲） 赫頓：（中文）除了要學習口音和腔調以外，還有手勢。更重要的是，手勢特有的習慣和動作。 宇玉：用中文來掩飾唯一會出現的問題是我只能說這段話，這是我用盡心力學習而成的，在我造訪中國的期間。（笑聲）因此，我能做的只有用不同的聲調一再重覆，然後祈禱你們不會察覺。 （笑聲） 赫頓：（中文）更重要的是，手勢特有的習慣和動作。 （笑聲） 宇玉：當然，我必須向所有說中文的觀眾朋友致歉。 身為小孩，我討厭生來就必須穿著印度傳統長袍，因為我覺得那一點也不酷。我覺得那很女孩子氣，就像洋裝，而且它有個像布袋的褲管，你得綁得非常緊，免得它掉下來很丟臉。我爸從來不穿那個，所以我搞不懂為什麼我得穿。還有，那個讓我不太舒服，當我穿上它的時候，別人都覺得我代表了真正的印度人，因為我根本不這麼覺得。 赫頓：（中文）我們可以透過學習不同的語言，來認識不同的文化嗎？ 宇玉：其實，要穿上它，唯一讓我覺得舒服的方式，就是假裝那是武功大師的長袍，像是李慕白，就是那部電影《臥虎藏龍》。 （音樂） 因此，我的藝術作品是關於身分和語言，挑戰常見的假設，依據我們的外表、故鄉、性別、種族、階級。究竟是什麼讓我們成為我們呢？ 赫頓：（中文）我們可以透過學習不同的語言，來認識不同的文化嗎？ 宇玉：我以前常看蜘蛛人漫畫，功夫電影，從李小龍身上學哲學。他會說一些像是── 赫頓：保持空靈之心。（笑聲）無形，無法，就像水一樣。水倒入杯中，就成了杯子的形狀；倒入瓶中，就成為瓶子的形狀；倒入茶壺中，就成為茶壺的形狀。而水能載舟亦能覆舟。像水一樣吧，我的朋友。（掌聲） 饒宇玉：我今年 32 歲，和李小龍過世的時候一樣大。我最近常想：如果他現在還活著，對於我要在 TED 演說，他會給我什麼建議？ 赫頓：不要模仿我的聲音，那會冒犯我。 （笑聲） 宇玉：好建議，但是我還是認為我們學著成為自己是透過模仿他人。在座有誰從未模仿小時候在遊樂場裡崇拜的英雄，或是父母？我有。 赫頓：幾年前，為了讓這部影片成為我的藝術作品，我剃了光頭，這樣一來，我可以讓它長回來，就像我爸爸剛從印度移民到英國的模樣，在 1960 年代時。他有分了邊的整齊鬍鬚。 剛開始還蠻順利的，我甚至可以在印度商店拿到折扣。 （笑聲） 但是沒過多久，我開始低估鬍鬚生長的能力，結果它變得太長了，看起來一點也不像印度人。相反的，人們會在對街對著我喊── 赫頓與宇玉：阿里巴！阿里巴！安德烈！安德烈！（註：卡通《飛毛鼠》台詞） （笑聲） 赫頓：其實，我不知道為什麼我會這樣說。我父親甚至一點印度口音也沒有，他講話聽起來像這樣… 我不只模仿我父親。幾年前，我去中國住了幾個月，我不會講中文，那讓我很挫折，所以我寫下這段話，把它翻譯成中文，然後發自內心的學習，大概就像音樂一樣。 饒宇玉：現在這段話深深烙印在我心上，比我提款卡的密碼還清楚，因此我可以假裝自己能夠流暢的說中文。當我學這段話的時候，有一位藝術家聽我說，看看聽起來標不標準。 我說了那段話，然後他大笑，然後跟我說：「噢，說得很好，」「只是聽起來很像…女生。」 我說：「什麼？！」 他說：「沒錯，你是從女生那學來的吧？」 我說：「對啊，所以？」 然後他開始向我解釋音調的差異，男性和女性之間有很大的分別，我學得很好，但是那是女性的發音。 （笑聲） （鼓掌） 赫頓：好吧，所以模仿這件事會有點冒險。模仿並不會總是如你所願，即使你有一個很棒的翻譯。但是我打算繼續下去，因為和我們通常假設相反的是：模仿某個人可以顯露出自己某種獨一無二的特質。因此每次只要我無法學得更像我父親，我就變得更像自己一點。每次只要我無法學得更像李小龍，我就變得更像真實的自己。 這是我的藝術，我為了真實而努力，即使後來會顯得不太像期待的那個樣子。一直到最近，我才開始了解，我學來的坐姿，並不是印度人的風格，而是從蜘蛛人那學來的。 （笑聲） 謝謝！ （掌聲）
