Talk	en	zh-tw
hugh_evans_what_does_it_mean_to_be_a_citizen_of_the_world	"I want to introduce you to an amazing woman. Her name is Davinia. Davinia was born in Jamaica, emigrated to the US at the age of 18, and now lives just outside of Washington, DC. She's not a high-powered political staffer, nor a lobbyist. She'd probably tell you she's quite unremarkable, but she's having the most remarkable impact. What's incredible about Davinia is that she's willing to spend time every single week focused on people who are not her: people not her in her neighborhood, her state, nor even in her country — people she'd likely never meet. Davinia's impact started a few years ago when she reached out to all of her friends on Facebook, and asked them to donate their pennies so she could fund girls' education. She wasn't expecting a huge response, but 700,000 pennies later, she's now sent over 120 girls to school. When we spoke last week, she told me she's become a little infamous at the local bank every time she rocks up with a shopping cart full of pennies. Now — Davinia is not alone. Far from it. She's part of a growing movement. And there's a name for people like Davinia: global citizens. A global citizen is someone who self-identifies first and foremost not as a member of a state, a tribe or a nation, but as a member of the human race, and someone who is prepared to act on that belief, to tackle our world's greatest challenges. Our work is focused on finding, supporting and activating global citizens. They exist in every country and among every demographic. I want to make the case to you today that the world's future depends on global citizens. I'm convinced that if we had more global citizens active in our world, then every single one of the major challenges we face — from poverty, climate change, gender inequality — these issues become solvable. They are ultimately global issues, and they can ultimately only be solved by global citizens demanding global solutions from their leaders. Now, some people's immediate reaction to this idea is that it's either a bit utopian or even threatening. So I'd like to share with you a little of my story today, how I ended up here, how it connects with Davinia and, hopefully, with you. Growing up in Melbourne, Australia, I was one of those seriously irritating little kids that never, ever stopped asking, ""Why?"" You might have been one yourself. I used to ask my mum the most annoying questions. I'd ask her questions like, ""Mum, why I can't I dress up and play with puppets all day?"" ""Why do you want fries with that?"" ""What is a shrimp, and why do we have to keep throwing them on the barbie?"" (Laughter) ""And mum — this haircut. Why?"" (Laughter) The worst haircut, I think. Still terrible. As a ""why"" kid, I thought I could change the world, and it was impossible to convince me otherwise. And when I was 12 and in my first year of high school, I started raising money for communities in the developing world. We were a really enthusiastic group of kids, and we raised more money than any other school in Australia. And so I was awarded the chance to go to the Philippines to learn more. It was 1998. We were taken into a slum in the outskirts of Manila. It was there I became friends with Sonny Boy, who lived on what was literally a pile of steaming garbage. ""Smoky Mountain"" was what they called it. But don't let the romance of that name fool you, because it was nothing more than a rancid landfill that kids like Sonny Boy spent hours rummaging through every single day to find something, anything of value. That night with Sonny Boy and his family changed my life forever, because when it came time to go to sleep, we simply laid down on this concrete slab the size of half my bedroom with myself, Sonny Boy, and the rest of his family, seven of us in this long line, with the smell of rubbish all around us and cockroaches crawling all around. And I didn't sleep a wink, but I lay awake thinking to myself, ""Why should anyone have to live like this when I have so much? Why should Sonny Boy's ability to live out his dreams be determined by where he's born, or what Warren Buffett called 'the ovarian lottery?'"" I just didn't get it, and I needed to understand why. Now, I only later came to understand that the poverty I'd seen in the Philippines was the result of decisions made or not made, man-made, by a succession of colonial powers and corrupt governments who had anything but the interests of Sonny Boy at heart. Sure, they didn't create Smoky Mountain, but they may as well have. And if we're to try to help kids like Sonny Boy, it wouldn't work just to try to send him a few dollars or to try to clean up the garbage dump on which he lived, because the core of the problem lay elsewhere. And as I worked on community development projects over the coming years trying to help build schools, train teachers, and tackle HIV and AIDS, I came to see that community development should be driven by communities themselves, and that although charity is necessary, it's not sufficient. We need to confront these challenges on a global scale and in a systemic way. And the best thing I could do is try to mobilize a large group of citizens back home to insist that our leaders engage in that systemic change. That's why, a few years later, I joined with a group of college friends in bringing the Make Poverty History campaign to Australia. We had this dream of staging this small concert around the time of the G20 with local Aussie artists, and it suddenly exploded one day when we got a phone call from Bono, the Edge and Pearl Jam, who all agreed to headline our concert. I got a little bit excited that day, as you can see. (Laughter) But to our amazement, the Australian government heard our collective voices, and they agreed to double investment into global health and development — an additional 6.2 billion dollars. It felt like — (Applause) It felt like this incredible validation. By rallying citizens together, we helped persuade our government to do the unthinkable, and act to fix a problem miles outside of our borders. But here's the thing: it didn't last. See, there was a change in government, and six years later, all that new money disappeared. What did we learn? We learned that one-off spikes are not enough. We needed a sustainable movement, not one that is susceptible to the fluctuating moods of a politician or the hint of an economic downturn. And it needed to happen everywhere; otherwise, every individual government would have this built-in excuse mechanism that they couldn't possibly carry the burden of global action alone. And so this is what we embarked upon. And as we embarked upon this challenge, we asked ourselves, how do we gain enough pressure and build a broad enough army to win these fights for the long term? We could only think of one way. We needed to somehow turn that short-term excitement of people involved with the Make Poverty History campaign into long-term passion. It had to be part of their identity. So in 2012, we cofounded an organization that had exactly that as its goal. And there was only one name for it: Global Citizen. But this is not about any one organization. This is about citizens taking action. And research data tells us that of the total population who even care about global issues, only 18 percent have done anything about it. It's not that people don't want to act. It's often that they don't know how to take action, or that they believe that their actions will have no effect. So we had to somehow recruit and activate millions of citizens in dozens of countries to put pressure on their leaders to behave altruistically. And as we did so, we discovered something really thrilling, that when you make global citizenship your mission, you suddenly find yourself with some extraordinary allies. See, extreme poverty isn't the only issue that's fundamentally global. So, too, is climate change, human rights, gender equality, even conflict. We found ourselves shoulder to shoulder with people who are passionate about targeting all these interrelated issues. But how did we actually go about recruiting and engaging those global citizens? Well, we used the universal language: music. We launched the Global Citizen Festival in the heart of New York City in Central Park, and we persuaded some of the world's biggest artists to participate. We made sure that these festivals coincided with the UN General Assembly meeting, so that leaders who need to hear our voices couldn't possible ignore them. But there was a twist: you couldn't buy a ticket. You had to earn it. You had to take action on behalf of a global cause, and only once you'd done that could you earn enough points to qualify. Activism is the currency. I had no interest in citizenship purely as some sort of feel-good thing. For me, citizenship means you have to act, and that's what we required. And amazingly, it worked. Last year, more than 155,000 citizens in the New York area alone earned enough points to qualify. Globally, we've now signed up citizens in over 150 countries around the world. And last year, we signed up more than 100,000 new members each and every week of the whole year. See, we don't need to create global citizens from nothing. We're already everywhere. We just need to be organized and motivated to start acting. And this is where I believe we can learn a lot from Davinia, who started taking action as a global citizen back in 2012. Here's what she did. It wasn't rocket science. She started writing letters, emailing politicians' offices. She volunteered her time in her local community. That's when she got active on social media and started to collect pennies — a lot of pennies. Now, maybe that doesn't sound like a lot to you. How will that achieve anything? Well, it achieved a lot because she wasn't alone. Her actions, alongside 142,000 other global citizens', led the US government to double their investment into Global Partnership for Education. And here's Dr. Raj Shah, the head of USAID, making that announcement. See, when thousands of global citizens find inspiration from each other, it's amazing to see their collective power. Global citizens like Davinia helped persuade the World Bank to boost their investment into water and sanitation. Here's the Bank's president Jim Kim announcing 15 billion dollars onstage at Global Citizen, and Prime Minister Modi of India affirmed his commitment to put a toilet in every household and school across India by 2019. Global citizens encouraged by the late-night host Stephen Colbert launched a Twitter invasion on Norway. Erna Solberg, the country's Prime Minister, got the message, committing to double investment into girls' education. Global citizens together with Rotarians called on the Canadian, UK, and Australian governments to boost their investment into polio eradication. They got together and committed 665 million dollars. But despite all of this momentum, we face some huge challenges. See, you might be thinking to yourself, how can we possibly persuade world leaders to sustain a focus on global issues? Indeed, the powerful American politician Tip O'Neill once said, ""All politics is local."" That's what always got politicians elected: to seek, gain and hold onto power through the pursuit of local or at very best national interests. I experienced this for the first time when I was 21 years old. I took a meeting with a then-Australian Foreign Minister who shall remain nameless — [Alexander Downer] (Laughter) And behind closed doors, I shared with him my passion to end extreme poverty. I said, ""Minister — Australia has this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to help achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We can do this."" And he paused, looked down on me with cold, dismissive eyes, and he said, ""Hugh, no one gives a funk about foreign aid."" Except he didn't use the word ""funk."" He went on. He said we need to look after our own backyard first. This is, I believe, outdated, even dangerous thinking. Or as my late grandfather would say, complete BS. Parochialism offers this false dichotomy because it pits the poor in one country against the poor in another. It pretends we can isolate ourselves and our nations from one another. The whole world is our backyard, and we ignore it at our peril. See, look what happened when we ignored Rwanda, when we ignore Syria, when we ignore climate change. Political leaders ought to give a ""funk"" because the impact of climate change and extreme poverty comes right to our shore. Now, global citizens — they understand this. We live in a time that favors the global citizen, in an age where every single voice can be heard. See, do you remember when the Millennium Development Goals were signed back in the year 2000? The most we could do in those days was fire off a letter and wait for the next election. There was no social media. Today, billions of citizens have more tools, more access to information, more capacity to influence than ever before. Both the problems and the tools to solve them are right before us. The world has changed, and those of us who look beyond our borders are on the right side of history. So where are we? So we run this amazing festival, we've scored some big policy wins, and citizens are signing up all over the world. But have we achieved our mission? No. We have such a long way to go. But this is the opportunity that I see. The concept of global citizenship, self-evident in its logic but until now impractical in many ways, has coincided with this particular moment in which we are privileged to live. We, as global citizens, now have a unique opportunity to accelerate large-scale positive change around the world. So in the months and years ahead, global citizens will hold world leaders accountable to ensure that the new Global Goals for Sustainable Development are tracked and implemented. Global citizens will partner with the world's leading NGOs to end diseases like polio and malaria. Global citizens will sign up in every corner of this globe, increasing the frequency, quality and impact of their actions. These dreams are within reach. Imagine an army of millions growing into tens of millions, connected, informed, engaged and unwilling to take no for an answer. Over all these years, I've tried to reconnect with Sonny Boy. Sadly, I've been unable to. We met long before social media, and his address has now been relocated by the authorities, as often happens with slums. I'd love to sit down with him, wherever he is, and share with him how much the time I spent on Smoky Mountain inspired me. Thanks to him and so many others, I came to understand the importance of being part of a movement of people — the kids willing to look up from their screens and out to the world, the global citizens. Global citizens who stand together, who ask the question ""Why?,"" who reject the naysayers, and embrace the amazing possibilities of the world we share. I'm a global citizen. Are you? Thank you. (Applause)"	我想向各位介紹一位了不起的女人。她的名字叫達維妮雅，達維妮雅出生於牙買加，18 歲時移民到美國。現在住在首都華盛頓哥倫比亞特區的外圍。她不是掌握大權的政府官員，也不是一位說客。她可能會告訴你，她很平凡，但她的影響力卻相當的不平凡。達維妮雅不平凡的地方在於，她願意每週花時間去關注那些和她沒有關係的人：既不是她的鄰居、也不是她所住的州，甚至也不是她國家的人──而是那些她可能從未見過的人。 達維妮雅的影響力從幾年前開始，當時她在臉書上尋求朋友幫助，她邀請他們捐點零錢，這樣她就可以資助女孩的教育。她沒想過會有這麼大的回響，在獲得 70 萬便士後，她送了 120 位女孩去上學。我們上禮拜有聊到，她說，她變得有點不受當地銀行的歡迎了，因為她每次都突然現身還帶著一卡車零錢。 如今，達維妮雅並不孤單。她離孤單還差得遠的呢。她是這股成長趨勢的一分子。有一個詞可以形容像達維妮雅這樣的人：「世界公民」。世界公民是指，不把「自我認同」優先定位在一個州、國家或部落之上的人，而是把自我認同優先定位在身為人類的一分子，並準備好以此信念來採取行動、解決我們世界上最大的挑戰。我們的工作就是找出支持和動員這些世界公民。他們存在每個國家與群眾之中。 我今天要向各位說明一個觀點，就是，世界的未來仰賴於世界公民。我有信心，如果世界上有更多的世界公民參與，那我們現在所面臨的各種挑戰——從貧窮、氣候變化到性別不平等——這些議題都可以迎刃而解。它們都是全球最棘手的問題，而最終能解決的方式，就只有透過世界公民向他們的領導者要求並提出全球性的解決方案才能做到。 現在，肯定會有人會立刻覺得這個想法有點異想天開，甚至有些威脅的意味。所以今天我想告訴你們一個我的小故事，告訴你，我最終是怎麼站在這裡的，以及這件事如何與達維尼亞連結起來，我更希望可以和你們產生共鳴。 我在澳洲的墨爾本長大，我小時候特別煩人，總是不停地問「為什麼？」各位過去可能也是如此。我過去常常問我媽媽一些相當惱人的問題。我問像是：「媽，為什麼我不能穿衣打扮，然後跟木偶玩上一整天？」「你為什麼要加那個下去炒？ 」「蝦子是什麼？為什麼我們一直要把牠們扔到芭比娃娃的頭上？」 (意旨：BBQ 烤蝦子）（笑聲） 「還有，媽，這髮型……為什麼？」 （笑聲） 我覺得是史上最醜的髮型。真的很糟糕。 身為愛問為什麼的男孩，我自認能改變世界，而且那時我不可能會被說服。在我 12 歲上中學的第一年，我開始籌錢幫助那些發展中國家的社區。我們是一群熱情四溢的小鬼頭，而且我們在澳洲籌到了比其它任何學校還要多的錢。因此我得到了一個去菲律賓學習的機會。當時是 1998 年。我們被帶到馬尼拉郊外的一個貧民窟裡。在那裡，我跟桑尼男孩變成了好朋友，他就生活在那種會冒熱氣的垃圾堆當中。他們把這座垃圾山叫做「冒煙山」。但不要被這浪漫的名字給騙了，因為它只不過是散著惡臭味的垃圾堆，這些像桑尼的孩子們，每天要花大量的時間在這些垃圾堆中尋找值錢的東西。 那晚，桑尼和他的家人徹底改變了我的一生，因為睡覺的時候，我們就睡在只有我的臥室一半大的混凝土地板上，而且是我、桑尼和他的家人大家一起睡。7 個人成排睡在這麼寬的空間，伴隨著身邊的垃圾臭味，還有滿地爬的蟑螂。我根本闔不上眼，我躺著，卻清醒地在想一件事：「當我擁有這麼多的同時，為什麼還有人必須住在這樣的地方？」為什麼桑尼男孩實現他夢想的能力是由他的出生地所決定？或者就像華倫巴菲特說：「娘胎是張大樂透」？我就是搞不懂，而且我需要知道為什麼。 我後來才理解，我在菲律賓看到的貧窮，是各種由人有意或無意所制定的決策而產生的後果，像是一次又一次外來強權的殖民，或是除了桑尼男孩心願以外什麼都想要的腐敗政府所造成。 沒錯，「冒煙山」不是他們創造的，但也是由他們促成的。如果我們想要幫助像桑尼男孩這樣的孩子，給他們一點小錢或者清理他們住家的垃圾都沒有太大的用處，因為核心問題仍躺在那邊還沒解決。我這幾年做了一些社區發展計畫，像是試著建學校、培訓老師、對抗愛滋病毒。我開始發現社區的發展，應該是由社區本身來驅動的，雖然對他們的捐助是必要的，但這些還不夠。我們面對這些的挑戰必須採取一個全球性、有系統的方式。而我能幫上最大的忙，就是去動員這些世界公民回家，去督促我們的領導人參與這個系統性的變革。 這也是為什麼幾年之後，我跟一群大學的朋友，一起在澳洲舉行「讓貧窮成為歷史」的運動。我們的夢想是舉辦一個小型音樂會，就在 G20 會議期間，與澳洲當地的藝人一起共襄盛舉，就在我們接到來自波諾、The Edge、 珍珠果醬樂團的來電後，這場盛事，一天內就突然爆紅了起來，他們都答應在我們的音樂會上擔綱主角。那天我有點激動，你可以看得出來。 （笑聲） 但令我們驚訝的是，澳洲政府聽到我們全體的聲音了，他們答應，會把投入全球健康和發展的經費提高一倍——額外增加 62 億的預算。這感覺就像—— （掌聲） 這感覺像是一個不可思議的驗證。透過將世界公民團結在一起，我們說服了我們的政府去做一些不敢想像的事情，並採取行動去解決那些離我們國界數英哩遠地區的問題。 但問題是，這並沒有持續很久。你看，政府裡發生了變化，六年以後，所有之前新追加的預算全都被砍掉了。我們從中學到了什麼？我們學到了，曇花一現是不夠的。我們需要的是可以不斷持續地運動，而不會受到政治家情緒波動的干擾，或經濟衰退預警的影響。運動必須在世界各地發生；否則，各國政府就有制式的官方理由推託說，這些全球性的活動，以一國之力負擔不起。 所以，我們開始進行這項工作。當我們開始進行這項挑戰時， 我們自問，我們要如何獲得足夠的壓力並建立起一支足夠強大的部隊來贏得這場長期的戰爭？我們只想出了一種辦法。我們需要以某種方式，讓人參與「讓貧窮成為歷史」運動可以從短時間的興奮轉變為長時間的熱情，成為他們自我認同的一部分。所以 2012 年我們成立了一個專門為達成這個目標的組織。這個組織只有一個適合的名字：「世界公民」。 但這與任何組織都無關。這與公民是否採取行動有關。研究數據告訴我們，關注世界問題的總人口當中，大概只有 18% 的人付出了行動。不是大家不想做，而是他們通常不知道要怎麼做，或者他們覺得自己的行動起不了作用。所以我們需要以某種方式來招募並激勵這些來自不同國家的無數公民，去向他們的領導人施壓，請他們無私地付出。 當我們這樣做之後，我們發現了一些令人振奮的事情，就是當你把世界公民運動當做你的任務，你會突然發現，你身邊有一群非凡的盟友與你並肩作戰。全球的問題不僅僅只有貧窮，還有氣候變遷、人權、性別平等，甚至衝突。我們發現我們正與那些同樣對解決全球問題有熱情的人，一起並肩作戰。 但是我們要如何去招募，並讓這些世界公民參與活動呢？我們用了世界的共同語言：音樂。我們在紐約市中心的中央公園舉辦「世界公民音樂節」，我們說服了一些世界上最大咖的音樂家來參加。我們要確保這些活動能與聯合國大會會議同時進行，讓那些需要聆聽我們聲音的領導者們，沒辦法再忽略我們的聲音。 但有一個前提就是：你不能買門票。你必須透過實際行動來賺得門票。你必須要為全球議題發聲，唯有這樣，你才有足夠的點數來獲取門票。行動才是入場券。我對公民權沒有興趣，因為它無非只是些讓你自我感覺良好的東西。對我而言，公民權利意味著你必須要行動，而那才是我們所需要的。驚人的是，起作用了。去年，光是紐約區域就有超過 15.5 萬的公民，取得了足夠參與音樂會的點數。綜觀全球，我們目前已經有來自超過150 個國家的世界公民登記。去年一整年，我們每個星期都有超過 10 萬人登記成為新會員。 你看，我們不需要無中生有創造什麼世界公民出來。我們已經在世界各處了。我們只需要組織起來，或者動員起來去採取行動。而這也是我相信我們可以從達尼維雅那裡學到的東西，身為世界公民的她，在 2012 年就已經展開許多行動。她是這麼做的。這不是什麼特別難的事。她開始寫信，寄電子郵件到政治人物的辦公室。她在當地社區貢獻自己的時間。在她開始與社交媒體接觸並開始募零錢後——她募到了很多零錢。 也許你們覺得這些零錢好像沒有很多。這樣哪能完成什麼事呢？其實，我們完成了很多事，因為她並不孤單。她的行動，有 14.2 萬的世界公民參與，讓美國政府在全球公民意識的教育上增加了一倍的預算。這位是美國國際開發組組長拉吉夫．沙赫博士發布該項聲明。你看，當數以千計的世界公民從彼此間找到熱情時，你會看到他們群聚的力量真的很驚人。像達維妮雅這樣的世界公民也協助說服世界銀行增加他們投入在水資源及公共衛生的經費。這位是世界銀行總裁吉姆．金，他在全球公民講台上宣布要投入 150 億元經費。印度總理莫迪宣布了他的承諾，在 2019 年前，他要讓印度每個家庭及學校都有廁所。全球公民受到深夜主持人史提芬．荷伯的鼓勵，他們在推特上向挪威發動了一次洗版。讓挪威首相艾娜．瑟爾貝克也收到了世界公民的訊息，承諾要在女子教育上增加一倍的經費。全球公民與扶輪社友共同呼籲加拿大、英國及澳洲政府，增加他們在根除小兒麻痺症上的經費。他們聚在一起承諾，總共要投入 6.65 億元。 但儘管有這一切的造勢活動，我們仍面臨著很大的挑戰。你看，你自己可能會想，我們要如何說服全球的領袖，持續關注全球問題呢？的確，有影響力的美國政治家歐尼爾曾說：「所有的政治都是地方政治。」這也是為什麼政客總是會被選上的原因：他們透過為當地或國家追求最大的利益，來為自己尋找、取得並掌控權利。 我在 21 歲的時候，第一次經歷了這樣的經驗。我與當時的澳洲外交部長會面，我就不要說是誰了… [ 亞歷山大．唐納 ] （笑聲） 關上門後，我向他分享了我對終結極端貧困的雄心壯志。我說：「部長，澳洲這次有一個千載難逢的機會，可以幫助聯合國達成千禧年發展目標。我們做得到！」然後，他停頓了一下，用無情鄙視的眼神，看著我說：「休，沒有人會『鳥』國際援助的。」但他沒有用『鳥』這個字。他接著說，我們要先照顧好自家後院。 我相信，這是相當過時，甚至危險的想法。或者就如同我已故祖父會說的，根本是狗屎。狹隘主義者灌輸了我們這種錯誤的二分法，因為這是逼迫一個國家的窮人去對付另一個國家的窮人。好像假裝我們的國家可以與其他的國家沒有關係一樣。整個世界就是我們的後院，但我們卻冒險忽略這件事。你看，當我們忽視了盧安達、忽視了敘利亞、忽視了氣候變遷，結果呢？政治領導人應該要「鳥」一下了，因為環境變遷及極度貧困的影響，已經來到我們身邊。 現在，全球公民都了解這件事。我們生活在一個有利於全球公民的時代，一個每個聲音都可以被傾聽到的年代。各位還記得，2000 年各國簽署的千禧年發展目標嗎？那些日子我們最多能做的就是火力全開地發信，並期待下一次的選舉。當時沒有社交媒體。今日，十幾億的市民有更多的工具，更容易取得資訊，比以前更有能力可以影響他們。問題與解決的方法就在我們面前。世界已經改變，那些把眼光放遠到國界以外的人，他們是站在人類歷史正義的這一邊。 那我們做到哪了呢？我們舉辦了這次音樂節的活動，我們取得重大政策的勝利，以及來自世界各地公民登記加入。但我們有達成目標了嗎？不。我們還有很長的路要走。 但這是我所看到的機會。世界公民的概念，它的邏輯很簡單易懂，但到目前為止很多方面都還沒落實，剛好就是我們幸福生活的這個特殊時刻。我們，身為全球公民，現在有一個難得的機會可以大規模地加速帶領全世界變得更好。因此，在往後的歲月裡，全球公民將協助世界領導人扛起責任，確保新的全球永續發展目標能確實追蹤和實施。全球公民將與非政府組織聯手，一起終結小兒麻痺和瘧疾等疾病。全球公民將在世界各地登記參與，增加他們活動的頻率、品質與影響力。這些夢想觸手可及。想像一下百萬軍隊，成長到千萬軍隊，彼此連結、通知、參與，而且不接受否定的答案。 這些年來，我嘗試與桑尼男孩重新聯繫。我很難過，但力不從心。我們之前透過社群媒體聯絡，他現在的住家已經被官方重新安置，這種事很常發生在貧民窟。我很想再坐到他的身旁，不論他現在在哪裡，我想和他分享我在冒煙山的那段日子，激勵我多麼多。感謝他及其他幫助過我的人，讓我了解成為推動人類轉變一分子的重要性──他們是那些願意將目光從螢幕上移開、望向世界的孩子們，就是世界公民。世界公民會站在一起，問「為什麼？」世界公民拒絕悲觀主義者，並擁抱充滿美好未來可能性的共同世界。 我是世界公民。 你呢？ 謝謝各位！ （掌聲）
