Talk	en	zh-tw
hugh_herr_the_new_bionics_that_let_us_run_climb_and_dance	"Looking deeply inside nature, through the magnifying glass of science, designers extract principles, processes and materials that are forming the very basis of design methodology. From synthetic constructs that resemble biological materials, to computational methods that emulate neural processes, nature is driving design. Design is also driving nature. In realms of genetics, regenerative medicine and synthetic biology, designers are growing novel technologies, not foreseen or anticipated by nature. Bionics explores the interplay between biology and design. As you can see, my legs are bionic. Today, I will tell human stories of bionic integration; how electromechanics attached to the body, and implanted inside the body are beginning to bridge the gap between disability and ability, between human limitation and human potential. Bionics has defined my physicality. In 1982, both of my legs were amputated due to tissue damage from frostbite, incurred during a mountain-climbing accident. At that time, I didn't view my body as broken. I reasoned that a human being can never be ""broken."" Technology is broken. Technology is inadequate. This simple but powerful idea was a call to arms, to advance technology for the elimination of my own disability, and ultimately, the disability of others. I began by developing specialized limbs that allowed me to return to the vertical world of rock and ice climbing. I quickly realized that the artificial part of my body is malleable; able to take on any form, any function — a blank slate for which to create, perhaps, structures that could extend beyond biological capability. I made my height adjustable. I could be as short as five feet or as tall as I'd like. (Laughter) So when I was feeling bad about myself, insecure, I would jack my height up. (Laughter) But when I was feeling confident and suave, I would knock my height down a notch, just to give the competition a chance. (Laughter) (Applause) Narrow-edged feet allowed me to climb steep rock fissures, where the human foot cannot penetrate, and spiked feet enabled me to climb vertical ice walls, without ever experiencing muscle leg fatigue. Through technological innovation, I returned to my sport, stronger and better. Technology had eliminated my disability, and allowed me a new climbing prowess. As a young man, I imagined a future world where technology so advanced could rid the world of disability, a world in which neural implants would allow the visually impaired to see. A world in which the paralyzed could walk, via body exoskeletons. Sadly, because of deficiencies in technology, disability is rampant in the world. This gentleman is missing three limbs. As a testimony to current technology, he is out of the wheelchair, but we need to do a better job in bionics, to allow, one day, full rehabilitation for a person with this level of injury. At the MIT Media Lab, we've established the Center for Extreme Bionics. The mission of the center is to put forth fundamental science and technological capability that will allow the biomechatronic and regenerative repair of humans, across a broad range of brain and body disabilities. Today, I'm going to tell you how my legs function, how they work, as a case in point for this center. Now, I made sure to shave my legs last night, because I knew I'd be showing them off. (Laughter) Bionics entails the engineering of extreme interfaces. There's three extreme interfaces in my bionic limbs: mechanical, how my limbs are attached to my biological body; dynamic, how they move like flesh and bone; and electrical, how they communicate with my nervous system. I'll begin with mechanical interface. In the area of design, we still do not understand how to attach devices to the body mechanically. It's extraordinary to me that in this day and age, one of the most mature, oldest technologies in the human timeline, the shoe, still gives us blisters. How can this be? We have no idea how to attach things to our bodies. This is the beautifully lyrical design work of Professor Neri Oxman at the MIT Media Lab, showing spatially varying exoskeletal impedances, shown here by color variation in this 3D-printed model. Imagine a future where clothing is stiff and soft where you need it, when you need it, for optimal support and flexibility, without ever causing discomfort. My bionic limbs are attached to my biological body via synthetic skins with stiffness variations, that mirror my underlying tissue biomechanics. To achieve that mirroring, we first developed a mathematical model of my biological limb. To that end, we used imaging tools such as MRI, to look inside my body, to figure out the geometries and locations of various tissues. We also took robotic tools — here's a 14-actuator circle that goes around the biological limb. The actuators come in, find the surface of the limb, measure its unloaded shape, and then they push on the tissues to measure tissue compliances at each anatomical point. We combine these imaging and robotic data to build a mathematical description of my biological limb, shown on the left. You see a bunch of points, or nodes? At each node, there's a color that represents tissue compliance. We then do a mathematical transformation to the design of the synthetic skin, shown on the right. And we've discovered optimality is: where the body is stiff, the synthetic skin should be soft, where the body is soft, the synthetic skin is stiff, and this mirroring occurs across all tissue compliances. With this framework, we've produced bionic limbs that are the most comfortable limbs I've ever worn. Clearly, in the future, our clothing, our shoes, our braces, our prostheses, will no longer be designed and manufactured using artisan strategies, but rather, data-driven quantitative frameworks. In that future, our shoes will no longer give us blisters. We're also embedding sensing and smart materials into the synthetic skins. This is a material developed by SRI International, California. Under electrostatic effect, it changes stiffness. So under zero voltage, the material is compliant, it's floppy like paper. Then the button's pushed, a voltage is applied, and it becomes stiff as a board. (Tapping sounds) We embed this material into the synthetic skin that attaches my bionic limb to my biological body. When I walk here, it's no voltage. My interface is soft and compliant. The button's pushed, voltage is applied, and it stiffens, offering me a greater maneuverability over the bionic limb. We're also building exoskeletons. This exoskeleton becomes stiff and soft in just the right areas of the running cycle, to protect the biological joints from high impacts and degradation. In the future, we'll all be wearing exoskeletons in common activities, such as running. Next, dynamic interface. How do my bionic limbs move like flesh and bone? At my MIT lab, we study how humans with normal physiologies stand, walk and run. What are the muscles doing, and how are they controlled by the spinal cord? This basic science motivates what we build. We're building bionic ankles, knees and hips. We're building body parts from the ground up. The bionic limbs that I'm wearing are called BiOMs. They've been fitted to nearly 1,000 patients, 400 of which have been wounded U.S. soldiers. How does it work? At heel strike, under computer control, the system controls stiffness, to attenuate the shock of the limb hitting the ground. Then at mid-stance, the bionic limb outputs high torques and powers to lift the person into the walking stride, comparable to how muscles work in the calf region. This bionic propulsion is very important clinically to patients. So on the left, you see the bionic device worn by a lady, on the right, a passive device worn by the same lady, that fails to emulate normal muscle function, enabling her to do something everyone should be able to do: go up and down their steps at home. Bionics also allows for extraordinary athletic feats. Here's a gentleman running up a rocky pathway. This is Steve Martin — not the comedian — who lost his legs in a bomb blast in Afghanistan. We're also building exoskeletal structures using these same principles, that wrap around the biological limb. This gentleman does not have any leg condition, any disability. He has a normal physiology, so these exoskeletons are applying muscle-like torques and powers, so that his own muscles need not apply those torques and powers. This is the first exoskeleton in history that actually augments human walking. It significantly reduces metabolic cost. It's so profound in its augmentation, that when a normal, healthy person wears the device for 40 minutes and then takes it off, their own biological legs feel ridiculously heavy and awkward. We're beginning the age in which machines attached to our bodies will make us stronger and faster and more efficient. Moving on to electrical interface: How do my bionic limbs communicate with my nervous system? Across my residual limb are electrodes that measure the electrical pulse of my muscles. That's communicated to the bionic limb, so when I think about moving my phantom limb, the robot tracks those movement desires. This diagram shows fundamentally how the bionic limb is controlled. So we model the missing biological limb, and we've discovered what reflexes occurred, how the reflexes of the spinal cord are controlling the muscles. And that capability is embedded in the chips of the bionic limb. What we've done, then, is we modulate the sensitivity of the reflex, the modeled spinal reflex, with the neural signal, so when I relax my muscles in my residual limb, I get very little torque and power, but the more I fire my muscles, the more torque I get, and I can even run. And that was the first demonstration of a running gait under neural command. Feels great. (Applause) We want to go a step further. We want to actually close the loop between the human and the bionic external limb. We're doing experiments where we're growing nerves, transected nerves, through channels, or micro-channel arrays. On the other side of the channel, the nerve then attaches to cells, skin cells and muscle cells. In the motor channels, we can sense how the person wishes to move. That can be sent out wirelessly to the bionic limb, then [sensory information] on the bionic limb can be converted to stimulations in adjacent channels, sensory channels. So when this is fully developed and for human use, persons like myself will not only have synthetic limbs that move like flesh and bone, but actually feel like flesh and bone. This video shows Lisa Mallette, shortly after being fitted with two bionic limbs. Indeed, bionics is making a profound difference in people's lives. (Video) Lisa Mallette: Oh my God. LM: Oh my God, I can't believe it! (Video) (Laughter) LM: It's just like I've got a real leg! Woman: Now, don't start running. Man: Now turn around, and do the same thing walking up, but get on your heel to toe, like you would normally just walk on level ground. Try to walk right up the hill. LM: Oh my God. Man: Is it pushing you up? LM: Yes! I'm not even — I can't even describe it. Man: It's pushing you right up. Hugh Herr: Next week, I'm visiting the Center — Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Next week I'm visiting the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and I'm going to try to convince CMS to grant appropriate code language and pricing, so this technology can be made available to the patients that need it. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) It's not well appreciated, but over half of the world's population suffers from some form of cognitive, emotional, sensory or motor condition, and because of poor technology, too often, conditions result in disability and a poorer quality of life. Basic levels of physiological function should be a part of our human rights. Every person should have the right to live life without disability if they so choose — the right to live life without severe depression; the right to see a loved one, in the case of seeing-impaired; or the right to walk or to dance, in the case of limb paralysis or limb amputation. As a society, we can achieve these human rights, if we accept the proposition that humans are not disabled. A person can never be broken. Our built environment, our technologies, are broken and disabled. We the people need not accept our limitations, but can transcend disability through technological innovation. Indeed, through fundamental advances in bionics in this century, we will set the technological foundation for an enhanced human experience, and we will end disability. I'd like to finish up with one more story, a beautiful story. The story of Adrianne Haslet-Davis. Adrianne lost her left leg in the Boston terrorist attack. I met Adrianne when this photo was taken, at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital. Adrianne is a dancer, a ballroom dancer. Adrianne breathes and lives dance. It is her expression. It is her art form. Naturally, when she lost her limb in the Boston terrorist attack, she wanted to return to the dance floor. After meeting her and driving home in my car, I thought, I'm an MIT professor. I have resources. Let's build her a bionic limb, to enable her to go back to her life of dance. I brought in MIT scientists with expertise in prosthetics, robotics, machine learning and biomechanics, and over a 200-day research period, we studied dance. We brought in dancers with biological limbs, and we studied how they move, what forces they apply on the dance floor, and we took those data, and we put forth fundamental principles of dance, reflexive dance capability, and we embedded that intelligence into the bionic limb. Bionics is not only about making people stronger and faster. Our expression, our humanity can be embedded into electromechanics. It was 3.5 seconds between the bomb blasts in the Boston terrorist attack. In 3.5 seconds, the criminals and cowards took Adrianne off the dance floor. In 200 days, we put her back. We will not be intimidated, brought down, diminished, conquered or stopped by acts of violence. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to introduce Adrianne Haslet-Davis, her first performance since the attack. She's dancing with Christian Lightner. (Applause) (Music: ""Ring My Bell"" performed by Enrique Iglesias) (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, members of the research team: Elliott Rouse and Nathan Villagaray-Carski. Elliott and Nathan. (Applause)"	探察自然本質透過科學之放大鏡，設計者對自然的本質、過程及材料進行提取，這三者形成設計方法論之基石。從使用合成技術來模仿生物材料，到利用計算機方式來模仿神經傳導，自然都是在駕馭設計。而設計本身亦在驅使自然。在基因學、再生醫學、及合成生物學領域中，設計者不斷發展自然從未預測到或預料到的創新技術。仿生學研究的，是生物學與設計之間的互動。大家可見，我的雙腿為仿生所造。今日我要講的是，仿生學與人類相融合的故事，電機機械系與人體相結合的方式、植入人體內的方式，正正開始縮小殘疾人與健全人之間的距離、縮小人類局限性與人類潛能之間的距離。仿生學給我的身體帶來新的定義。一九八二年，我雙腿截肢，因為在一次登山事故中我的雙腿組織被凍傷。那時候，我並無將自己的身體視為殘疾。我的邏輯是，一個人永遠不會殘疾。科技才是殘疾的。科技是有缺陷的。這個簡單但強大的念頭是對行動的召喚，召喚改善科技，消除我自身的缺陷，最終亦都解決他人之缺陷。我開始設計特殊肢臂，這樣的設計允許我重返岩石冰川的攀登世界。我很快意識到，我身體中的人造部分具有可塑性，可以以各種形狀功能出現，如同一塊白板，可被延伸塑造成超越生物性能的結構。我可以調節我的身高。我可以變成五寸釘，亦可以變成六尺高。（笑聲）所以當我為自己難過時、缺乏安全感時，我就會增加身高；到我覺得自信嫻雅的時候，我就會調低一節高度，就當系一個競賽。（笑聲）（掌聲）狹窄楔形的雙腳令我攀登陡峭岩石裂紋時游刃有餘，但是一般的人腳則不能做到，帶尖刺的脚允許我攀登垂直冰牆時，不會出現雙腿肌肉疲勞。通過技術創新，我以更強勁的姿態重返運動。技術抹去我身體的缺陷，賦予我嶄新的攀登潛能。作為年少之人，我想像在未來的世界裡，科技會相當先進，足以擺脫殘疾的世界，在那個世界，神經植入可以幫助視障人士重見光明，身體癱瘓的人可以借助身體外骨骼重新步行。可惜，因為科技是有缺陷的，殘疾還是遍布全球。這位先生缺少三條肢臂。這是給現代科技的證明，這位先生已經擺脫了輪椅，但我們需要進一步完善仿生學，允許將來有一天受到如此創傷的人亦可以完全恢復。我們在 MIT 媒體實驗室建立了高端仿生學中心。該中心的使命，是發展基礎科學以及科技能力，使得人類可以利用生物機械仿生學和再生學在大範圍內修復大腦和身體的殘疾問題。今日我要跟大家講解我雙腿的功能、我雙腿的運作方式，以此作為該中心的說明案例。現在我確定我昨晚剃了腳毛，因為我知道今日我要把雙腿展示給大家。仿生學需要高端層面工程。我的仿生肢上有三個高端層面；機械層面上，我的雙腿是如何與我的肉體結合；動態層面，兩者如何像同肉與骨那樣靈活運動；電子層面上，兩者又是如何與我的神經系統溝通。我會先從機械層面開始講。在設計領域，我們尚不清楚如何將設備機械安裝在人體上。對於我來說，不可置信的是，今時今日，人類歷史中最為長久成熟的技術——鞋子——依然會令我們雙腳生水泡。為什麼會這樣？我們不知道怎樣在我們的身體上安裝東西。這裡是一件漂亮得意的設計作品，是 MIT 媒體實驗室的內日·奧斯曼的作品。展示的是人体外骨骼抗阻空间，是利用立體打印模型通過色差顯示出來的。想像一下，在未來衣服的柔軟硬挺由你而定，任何時候都可以提供最佳的支持和靈活性，絲毫不會引起不適。我的仿生肢安裝在我的體內，用的是人造皮膚，這種人造皮膚有不同柔軟度，來適用我體內的組織生物機械。要取得這樣的適用能力，我們首先為我的生物肢臂建立了一個數學模型。到了最後，我們使用成像工具，譬如 MRI，觀察我的體內，找出不同組織的幾何形狀和位置。我們亦使用了機器人工具。這是14—執行器循環裝置，用來測量我的生物肢體。這些執行器進去找出肢體的表面，測量缺失部分的形狀，然後按壓組織，從解剖學的角度，測量組織的順從性。我們結合這些成像和機器人數據，給我的生物肢體建立一個數學描述，也就是左邊的這些。大家可以看見一些點或節點。每一個節點都有不同顏色標識組織的順從性。然後我們做一個數學轉換，轉換為人造皮膚的設計，如右圖我們討論發現，最佳狀態是，人體剛硬的時候，人造皮膚應該要柔軟，人體柔軟的時候，人體皮膚應該要剛硬。這種適應能力應該體現在所有組織的服從性。有了這個框架，我們製造出仿生肢體，這是我有生以來穿過的最舒服的義肢。很明顯，在將來，我們的衣服、鞋子、背帶、還有我們的義肢要設計製造時，用的不再是手工藝方式，而是資料提取的數據框架。在未來，我們的鞋子不會再要我們長水泡。現在我們也在人造皮膚裡植入感應和智能材料。這種材料是由 SRI 國際（加州）研發。這種材料利用靜電作用，改變柔軟度。所以材料無需電壓也具有服從性。這種材料像紙張那樣輕軟。按鈕按下去，啟動一伏特，這種材料就會變得像板那樣硬。我們把這種材料植入到人造皮膚，用來連接我的仿生肢和肉體。在我走路的時候，沒有電壓。我的觸面是柔軟服從的。按鈕按下去，用到一伏特，就會變硬，令我更自如地操作我的仿生肢。我們亦都研發外骨骼。外骨骼可以變硬變軟，隨著運動的節奏在正確的地方保護生物關節，使其不受高衝擊和退化的影響。在未來，我們在平常的活動中，譬如跑步時，都會使用外骨骼。下一個，動態層面。我的仿生肢是如何像肉與骨那樣靈活活動？我們在我的 MIT 實驗室研究人類是如何使用一般的生理機能站立、走動和奔跑。肌肉如何作用，肌肉又是如何受脊髓控制。這類基礎科學促進我們的發展。我們在發展仿生腳踝、膝蓋、臀。我們在從頭開始建立身體的各個部分。我現在所穿的義肢，叫 BiOMs。這種義肢已經使用在將近一千個病人身上。其中四百人是美國傷兵。這是怎樣使用？當腳跟著地時，系統會通過電腦的控制控制柔軟度，以降低肢體著地的衝擊。然後在走姿之間時，仿生肢會發出高扭矩和高能量來把人提高，完成步伐，這與肌肉在小腿位置的移動相似。這個仿生推進力對臨床病人來說相當重要。在左邊，大家看見仿生設備，穿的人是一位女士——在右邊，同一位女士在使用不同的設備，這個設備不能模仿正常的肌肉功能——她穿上之後，可以做常人能夠做到的事，在家裡面走上走落。仿生肢同樣可以進行出眾的體育運動競賽。這是一位先生在石路上往上跑。這是斯提夫•馬丁，他不是喜劇演員，而是一位在阿富汗的炸彈爆炸中失去雙腿的先生。我們也在利用同樣的原理，發展可以包圍生物肢體的外骨骼結構，這位先生並沒有腿傷或殘疾。他的身體很正常，因此，這些外骨骼正在利用與肌肉相仿的扭矩和力量，這樣他自己的肌肉就不需要用到那些扭矩和力量。這是外骨骼首次在歷史上協助人類步行。這樣能夠大量地降低代謝值。外骨骼的使用效果相當顯著，一個正常健康的人穿著這個設備四十分鐘，然後脫下，他們自己的生物腿就會覺得無比沉重和彆扭。現在我們正在開啟的時代，是一個把機器安裝在我們身上、使我們更強、更快、更有效的時代。繼續說電子層面，我的仿生肢如何與我的神經系統溝通？我的殘肢上佈滿了電極，這些電極是用來測量肌肉電脈衝。這是用來與仿生肢溝通的，當我想到移動我的義肢時，機器人會追踪這些動作慾望。圖表基本顯示仿生肢是如何受到控制，我們因此做缺失的生物肢的模型，而我們也發現在發生反射時，骨髓的反射又是如何控制肌肉，這個功能植入在仿生肢的芯片中。然後我們要做的，是調節反射的敏感度、模擬的骨髓反應以及神經信號，這樣當我在殘肢中作出肌肉反射時，我不會怎樣感到扭矩和力量，但是我越刺激我的肌肉，我受到的扭矩就越多，我甚至可以跑步。這是首次展示神經系統指控下的跑步步伐。感覺相當不錯（掌聲）我們想要更進一步，我們想要消除人類和仿生外肢之間的距離。我們正在做一些實驗，通過使用信道射線或微型信道射線，培養神經，橫切神經。在信道的另一邊神經與細胞連接，與皮膚細胞和肌肉細胞連接。在肌肉信道上我們可以感覺到人想要如何移動。而這可以無線傳輸到仿生肢上，然後仿生肢的傳感器可以被轉化，刺激相鄰的信道、感應信道。當這個技術發展完善、可供人類使用的時候，像我這樣的人就不僅可以擁有靈活的人造肢體，而且可以真正感覺到肉骨間的活動。這個影片中，麗薩•馬利剛剛安裝了兩個仿生肢。的確，仿生肢給人們的生活帶來了深遠的影響。（影片）麗薩•馬利：我的老天爺我的老天爺，真不可置信。這真像是得了一雙真的腿。現在先不要跑。男人：現在轉身，然後正常地走幾步。走，站起來，好像正常情況那樣走路。試試走上那個小坡。馬利：我的老天爺。男人：這是不是在推著你走？馬利：是啊！我甚至都沒有…我無法形容。男人：這在推著你走。修•赫：下週我要去中心的——（掌聲）謝謝，謝謝。謝謝。下週我會去醫療服務中心，我要說服他們，讓他們授權合適的代碼語言和價格，讓這種技術對有需要的病人開放。謝謝。（掌聲）可能有些人還不知道，但是世界上有一半人口都在忍受著某種程度的認知、情感、感知或肌肉運動疾病同時正因為技術的落後，在多數情況下，這些疾病使人殘疾，使人生更加受罪。基本的生理機能應該是我們人權的一部分。每個人，都應該有權利由自己選擇沒有殘疾地生活——選擇不在極度沮喪中度過餘生的權利；在遭受視障的時候，有看見愛人的權利；在肢體癱瘓或截肢的時候，有步行跳舞的權利。我們是一個社會，我們可以獲得這些人權，只要我們能夠相信人類不是殘疾的。人，永遠不會殘疾。我們已有的環境、科技才是殘疾的。我們人類無需接受自身的局限性，我們可以通過科技創新，超越殘疾。的確，通過在本世紀在仿生技術上的基本進步，我們會設立技術的基礎，改善人類的生活，我們會結束殘疾。我希望用一則故事結束我的演講，一則美麗的故事，雅芝•哈斯戴維的故事。雅芝在波士頓恐怖襲擊中，失去了她的雙腿。我跟雅芝的見面，是在斯伯丁療養醫院拍這張照片的時候。雅芝是一位舞者，標準舞舞者。雅芝呼吸生活的都是舞蹈。舞蹈是她的表達方式，她的藝術形式。她在波士頓恐怖襲擊中失去左腿之後，很自然，她想重返舞台。跟她見完面後，我開車回家，在路上我想，我是一名 MIT 教授。我擁有的是資源。我想給他做一個仿生肢，讓她可以回到她的舞蹈人生。我引入了數名 MIT 科學家，他們的知識領域覆蓋修復學、機器人學、機器學習、生物力學，在兩百天的研究過程中，我們研究舞蹈。我們引入擁有無殘疾的舞蹈員，研究他們的舞蹈動作、以及他們在舞台上使用的力量，然後我們拿著這些資料，發展出舞蹈的基礎原理，反射性的舞蹈能力，我們將這種智能植入仿生肢裡。仿生學不止是用來使人類變得更強更快。我們的想法、我們的人道精神也可以植入到電機機械當中。只不過是區區 3.5 秒，波士頓恐怖襲擊中兩次炸彈爆炸不過時隔 3.5 秒。在這 3.5 秒裡，罪犯和懦夫們就把雅芝趕下了舞台。但在兩百天內，我們又把她召回來了。我們不會因為任何形式的暴力而害怕、畏縮、減弱、投降，或者止步。（掌聲）女士們先生們，請允許我向大家介紹雅芝•哈斯戴維，這是她在事故之後的首次表演。她的舞伴是基思德安•拉德樂。（掌聲）（音樂：《我的鐘聲響起》，歌手：恩里克•伊格萊西亞斯）（掌聲）女士們先生們有請研究組成員愛里特•羅斯和納特•維卡，愛里特和納特。（掌聲）
