Talk	en	zh-tw
ilona_szabo_de_carvalho_4_lessons_i_learned_from_taking_a_stand_against_drugs_and_gun_violence	"About 12 years ago, I gave up my career in banking to try to make the world a safer place. This involved a journey into national and global advocacy and meeting some of the most extraordinary people in the world. In the process, I became a civil society diplomat. Civil society diplomats do three things: They voice the concerns of the people, are not pinned down by national interests, and influence change through citizen networks, not only state ones. And if you want to change the world, we need more of them. But many people still ask, ""Can civil society really make a big difference? Can citizens influence and shape national and global policy?"" I never thought I would ask myself these questions, but here I am to share some lessons about two powerful civil society  movements that I've been involved in. They are in issues that I'm passionate about: gun control and drug policy. And these are issues that matter here. Latin America is ground zero for both of them. For example, Brazil — this beautiful country hosting TEDGlobal has the world's ugliest record. We are the number one champion in homicidal violence. One in every 10 people killed around the world is a Brazilian. This translates into over 56,000 people dying violently each year. Most of them are young, black boys dying by guns. Brazil is also one of the world's largest consumers of drugs, and the War on Drugs has been especially painful here. Around 50 percent of the homicides in the streets in Brazil are related to the War on Drugs. The same is true for about 25 percent of people in jail. And it's not just Brazil that is affected by the twin problems of guns and drugs. Virtually every country and city across Central and South America is in trouble. Latin America has nine percent of the world's population, but 25 percent of its global violent deaths. These are not problems we can run away from. I certainly could not. So the first campaign I got involved with started here in 2003 to change Brazil's gun law and to create a program to buy back weapons. In just a few years, we not only changed national legislation that made it much more difficult for civilians to buy a gun, but we collected and destroyed almost half a million weapons. This was one of the biggest buyback programs in history — (Applause) — but we also suffered some setbacks. We lost a referendum to ban gun sales to civilians in 2005. The second initiative was also home-grown, but is today a global movement to reform the international drug control regime. I am the executive coordinator of something called the Global Commission on Drug Policy. The commission is a high-level group of global leaders brought together to identify more humane and effective approaches to the issue of drugs. Since we started in 2008, the taboo on drugs is broken. Across the Americas, from the US and Mexico to Colombia and Uruguay, change is in the air. But rather than tell you the whole story about these two movements, I just want to share with you four key insights. I call them lessons to change the world. There are certainly many more, but these are the ones that stand out to me. So the first lesson is: Change and control the narrative. It may seem obvious, but a key ingredient to civil society diplomacy is first changing and then controlling the narrative. This is something that veteran politicians understand, but that civil society groups generally do not do very well. In the case of drug policy, our biggest success has been to change the discussion away from prosecuting a War on Drugs to putting people's health and safety first. In a cutting-edge report we just launched in New York, we also showed that the groups benefiting most from this $320 billion market are criminal gangs and cartels. So in order to undermine the power and profit of these groups, we need to change the conversation. We need to make illegal drugs legal. But before I get you too excited, I don't mean drugs should be a free-for-all. What I'm talking about, and what the Global Commission advocates for is creating a highly regulated market, where different drugs would have different degrees of regulation. As for gun control, we were successful in changing, but not so much in controlling, the narrative. And this brings me to my next lesson: Never underestimate your opponents. If you want to succeed in changing the world, you need to know who you're up against. You need to learn their motivations and points of view. In the case of gun control, we really underestimated our opponents. After a very successful gun-collection program, we were elated. We had support from 80 percent of Brazilians, and thought that this could help us win the referendum to ban gun sales to civilians. But we were dead wrong. During a televised 20-day public debate, our opponent used our own arguments against us. We ended up losing the popular vote. It was really terrible. The National Rifle Association — yes, the American NRA — came to Brazil. They inundated our campaign with their propaganda, that as you know, links the right to own guns to ideas of freedom and democracy. They simply threw everything at us. They used our national flag, our independence anthem. They invoked women's rights and misused images of Mandela, Tiananmen Square, and even Hitler. They won by playing with people's fears. In fact, guns were almost completely ignored in their campaign. Their focus was on individual rights. But I ask you, which right is more important, the right to life or the right to have a gun that takes life away? (Applause) We thought people would vote in defense of life, but in a country with a recent past of military dictatorship, the anti-government message of our opponents resonated, and we were not prepared to respond. Lesson learned. We've been more successful in the case of drug policy. If you asked most people 10 years ago if an end to the War on Drugs was possible, they would have laughed. After all, there are huge military police prisons and financial establishments benefiting from this war. But today, the international drug control regime is starting to crumble. Governments and civil societies are experimenting with new approaches. The Global Commission on Drug Policy really knew its opposition, and rather than fighting them, our chair — former Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso — reached out to leaders from across the political spectrum, from liberals to conservatives. This high level group agreed to honestly discuss the merits and flaws of drug policies. It was this reasoned, informed and strategic discussion that revealed the sad truth about the War on Drugs. The War on Drugs has simply failed across every metric. Drugs are cheaper and more available than ever, and consumption has risen globally. But even worse, it also generated massive negative unintended consequences. It is true that some people have made these arguments before, but we've made a difference by anticipating the arguments of our opponents and by leveraging powerful voices that a few years ago would probably have resisted change. Third lesson: Use data to drive your argument. Guns and drugs are emotive issues, and as we've painfully learned in the gun referendum campaign in Brazil, sometimes it's impossible to cut through the emotions and get to the facts. But this doesn't mean that we shouldn't try. Until quite recently, we simply didn't know how many Brazilians were killed by guns. Amazingly, it was a local soap opera called ""Mulheres Apaixonadas"" — or ""Women in Love"" — that kicked off Brazil's national gun control campaign. In one highly viewed episode, a soap opera lead actress was killed by a stray bullet. Brazilian grannies and housewives were outraged, and in a case of art imitating life, this episode also included footage of a real gun control march that we had organized right here, outside in Copacabana Beach. The televised death and march had a huge impact on public opinion. Within weeks, our national congress approved the disarmament bill that had been languishing for years. We were then able to mobilize data to show the successful outcomes of the change in the law and gun collection program. Here is what I mean: We could prove that in just one year, we saved more than 5,000 lives. (Applause) And in the case of drugs, in order to undermine this fear and prejudice that surrounds the issue, we managed to gather and present data that shows that today's drug policies cause much more harm than drug use per se, and people are starting to get it. My fourth insight is: Don't be afraid to bring together odd bedfellows. What we've learned in Brazil — and this doesn't only apply to my country — is the importance of bringing diverse and eclectic folks together. If you want to change the world, it helps to have a good cross-section of society on your side. In both the case of guns and drugs, we brought together a wonderful mix of people. We mobilized the elite and got huge support from the media. We gathered the victims, human rights champions, cultural icons. We also assembled the professional classes — doctors, lawyers, academia and more. What I've learned over the last years is that you need coalitions of the willing and of the unwilling to make change. In the case of drugs, we needed libertarians, anti-prohibitionists, legalizers, and liberal politicians. They may not agree on everything; in fact, they disagree on almost everything. But the legitimacy of the campaign is based on their diverse points of view. Over a decade ago, I had a comfortable future working for an investment bank. I was as far removed from the world of civil society diplomacy as you can imagine. But I took a chance. I changed course, and on the way, I helped  to create social movements that I believe have made  some parts of the world safer. Each and every one of us has the power to change the world. No matter what the issue, and no matter how hard the fight, civil society is central to the blueprint for change. Thank you. (Applause)"	"大約在12年前，我從銀行離職，想要努力讓這個世界變得更安全。我因此到國內外倡導我的理念，並與世界上一些最非凡的人碰面。在這個過程中，我成為了公民社會的外交官。 公民社會的外交官要做三件事：「他們會為人民的疑慮發聲、不受制於國家利益、並透過平民網絡來推動變革，而非只有透過國家的網絡。」若想改變這個世界，我們就需要更多這樣的人。 不過許多人仍舊會問：「公民社會真的能做到實質性的改變嗎、公民真的能影響甚至決定國家和全球性政策嗎?」我不曾想過會問自己這些問題。不過在這裡我要分享幾項教訓，來自於我參與過的兩場重大公民社會運動，兩場運動都有我非常熱衷的議題：槍枝管制以及毒品政策；這兩者就是這邊的重大問題，拉丁美洲是兩者皆俱的重災區。 舉例來說：巴西 ─舉辦著 TEDGlobal 年會的美麗國家有著世界上最不堪的紀錄，我們是暴力謀殺排名的榜首：世界上每十個被殺害的人當中就有一個就是巴西人，這相當於每年有超過 56,000 人死於暴力，受害者大多數是遭槍殺的年輕黑人小子。巴西也是這個世界上毒品使用人口最多的地方，而「向毒品宣戰」在這裡進行得異常艱難；在巴西街頭，將近 50% 的兇殺案是與「向毒品宣戰」有關的，對監獄裡大約 25% 的人來說也是如此。受到槍械與毒品兩項麻煩所困擾的不只有巴西，幾乎是整個中美和南美的每一個國家和城市都深受其害。拉丁美洲有著世界 9% 的人口，但卻佔了全球暴力所造成之死亡人數的 25%， 這些並不是我們可以逃避的問題，我肯定不會逃避的！所以在 2003 年我第一場參加的政治運動就從這裡開始，我們想要改變巴西的槍械法令，以及提出買回武器的計畫。只花了幾年，我們不但改變了國家的法令，讓民眾想要購買槍枝更困難了，我們還收回並銷毀掉近 50 萬把槍枝，這是歷史上最大宗的槍械買回計畫。(掌聲)不過我們也遭受到一些挫折，在 2005 年時，我們輸掉一場禁止販賣槍械給民眾的公投。 第二個提案也是我們的自家事，不過在今天卻是全球的行動 ：改革國際毒品控管辦法。我是「毒品政策全球委員會」的執行統籌人，該委員會是一個全球領袖的高層級團體，攜手找出更人道和有效的辦法，來應對與毒品相關的議題。自從我們在 2008 年啟動，對毒品的禁忌就被瓦解了，整個美洲從美國、墨西哥到哥倫比亞、烏拉圭，改變隨處可見。 但與其跟你們講這兩場運動的細節，不如只跟你們分享四個重要的見解，我稱之為「從改變世界所獲得的教訓」，肯定還有很多其他的東西可以講，不過這些讓我特別有感覺。 第一個教訓是：「改變並控制報導內容」。這看似再簡單不過，不過公民社會外交一個重要的環節，就是先改變然後控制報導內容；這是老練的政治人物都懂的事情，不過公民社會團體普遍做得不夠好。就毒品政策而言，我們最大的成功是改變了輿論走向，從持續向毒品宣戰，轉變為將人民的健康和安全置於首位。在一份我們剛在紐約發表的最新報告裡，我們也指出從 3200 億美金的市場中獲利最多的人，是不法幫派和毒梟們。所以為了來削弱這些團體的力量和利潤，我們需要改變輿論，我們要讓非法的毒品成為合法。不過在你太開心之前，我並不是說所有人都能任意碰毒品，我想講的以及全球委員會所力倡的，就是創造出高度受規範的市場，讓不同的毒品制訂不同程度的規範。 就槍枝管制來說，我們成功地改變報導內容，卻沒有控制報導內容，而這就讓我講到下一個教訓：「永遠不要低估你的對手」。如果你想要成功來改變世界，你得要瞭解你的對手，你得要瞭解他們的動機和觀點。就槍枝管制而言，我們的確小看了我們的對手，在非常成功的槍枝收回計劃之後，我們喜不勝收，獲得了巴西人民 80% 的支持，而我們認為這可以幫我們贏得「禁止販賣槍枝給民眾」的公投，不過我們徹頭徹尾搞錯了，在電視公開辯論的 20 天期間，對手利用我們的論點來打擊我們，結果我們在投票上輸掉了，這真是糟透了。「全國槍枝協會」，沒錯！就是美國的 NRA ，來到了巴西，並且用他們的宣傳文案淹沒了我們的政治訴求。正如你所知，將擁有槍枝的權力牽連上自由與民主的理念。他們無所不用其極的來對付我們，利用我們的國旗、獨立頌歌、他們借助女權、而且濫用曼達拉、天安門廣場、甚至是希特勒的照片，他們透過操弄人民的恐懼來獲取勝利。事實上槍枝在他們的選舉訴求中幾乎是不存在的，他們的重點是個人權力；但是我要問你們：哪一種權力比較重要？是活下去的權力？還是持有剝奪人命之槍枝的權力呢？(掌聲) 我們認為大家會支持捍衛性命。但是對於一個剛剛擺脫軍事獨裁者的國家來說，我們的對手的反政府訊息得到民眾響應，而我們並沒有做好應對準備； 我們學到教訓了，我們的毒品政策宣傳進步了不少。10年前假如你問人「向毒品宣戰」是否有可能終結，大多數人會一笑置之，畢竟尚存有大量的軍事警察監獄，以及金融機構從這場戰爭中賺到錢。今天，控制毒品的國際組織逐日崩潰，政府和公民社會正在嘗試新的方法；「毒品政策全球委員會」真的瞭解對手，比起與它們當面搏鬥，我們的主席、巴西前總統 ─ 費爾南多·恩里克·卡多佐，找來不同政治主張的各界領袖，從自由派到保守派都有，這個高峰團體願意以誠懇的態度來討論既有毒品政策的優缺點。正是這場經過縝密思考、瞭解情況、和具有戰略性的討論，揭露出令人難過的真相：「向毒品宣戰」在每一方面都徹底失敗。毒品更加便宜了，而且比從前更容易取得，毒品的全球使用量也在增加，不過更糟的是它還積聚了眾多意料之外的負面後果。誠然以前有人提出這些論點，不過我們不一樣，我們透過預測對手的論點，以及利用有影響力者的聲音，那些前幾年還在拒絕改變的人。第三個教訓：應用資料來支持你的論點。槍枝和毒品是容易激發情緒的議題，而當我們在巴西槍械公投的宣導活動中就痛苦地領悟到，要完全不帶情緒直接提供證據，是不可能的。不過這並不代表我們不該去做，直到不久前，我們還不知道究竟有多少巴西人死於槍下；意外的是一齣地方肥皂劇 ─ ""Mulheres Apaixonadas""，或者叫「戀愛中的女人」，這齣戲開啟了巴西國內對槍枝管制的政治訴求，在非常高收視的某一集中，肥皂劇的女主角被一顆射偏了的子彈所殺害，巴西的祖母輩和主婦們都被激怒了。而在戲劇仿效生活的例子裡，這一集也包含了一段真實的槍枝管制遊行短片，那正是我們在這邊所籌畫的，就在外面的科帕卡瓦納海灘，電視演出中的死亡和遊行對公眾意見起了很大的作用，幾週不到我們的國家議會通過了繳械法案，那已經折騰好幾年了。之後我們才能夠準備好資料，來證明修改法令和槍枝收回計畫的確奏效；我指的是─我們可以證明僅僅在一年內，我們保住了超過 5,000 條性命。 (掌聲) 在毒品管制的問題上，為了要瓦解外縛於這些議題的恐懼和偏見，我們順利蒐集並呈現資料來證明當下的毒品政策比使用毒品這件事造成更多的傷害，而大家也漸漸開始接受了。 我的第四個洞見：不要怕與意見不同的夥伴合作。我們在巴西所學到的，這一點不只是適用於我的國家，是將多樣、兼容並蓄之輩帶到一塊來的重要性，如果你想改變這個世界，身邊有群跨領域的夥伴會讓你事半功倍。在槍枝和毒品兩個案例上，我們聚集了非常棒的人才組合，我們組織了傑出人才並從媒體得到大量的援助，我們聚合了受難者、人權奨得主、精神領導者，我們也聚集了各專業階級，有醫生、律師、學者以及其他很多人。 過去這些年我所學到的事，就是你需要有同意者和反對者組成的聯盟才能實現改變。在毒品控制的問題上，我們需要自由主義者、反禁者、立法者們，以及開明的政治人物。他們也許不會在每件事上都一致同意，事實上他們幾乎在每件事上都是意見不一的，但是這場政治運動的合理性正是立基於他們多樣化的觀點。 十多年前，我在投資銀行工作，有著衣食無憂的未來，那時候的我與公民社會的外交官是八竿子打不著關係的，正如你能想像到的那樣。但是我冒了一次險，我改變了人生的軌跡，在這條路上我幫忙發動社會運動，我相信自己所做的已經使得世界上某些地區更安全了。我們每個人都有改變世界的力量，不論議題是什麼，不論這場戰役有多艱難，公民社會是尋求改變的關鍵。 謝謝大家！ (掌聲)"
