Talk	en	zh-tw
io_tillett_wright_fifty_shades_of_gay	"Human beings start putting each other into boxes the second that they see each other — Is that person dangerous? Are they attractive? Are they a potential mate? Are they a potential networking opportunity? We do this little interrogation when we meet people to make a mental resume for them. What's your name? Where are you from? How old are you? What do you do? Then we get more personal with it. Have you ever had any diseases? Have you ever been divorced? Does your breath smell bad while you're answering my interrogation right now? What are you into? Who are you into? What gender do you like to sleep with? I get it. We are neurologically hardwired to seek out people like ourselves. We start forming cliques as soon as we're old enough to know what acceptance feels like. We bond together based on anything that we can — music preference, race, gender, the block that we grew up on. We seek out environments that reinforce our personal choices. Sometimes, though, just the question ""what do you do?"" can feel like somebody's opening a tiny little box and asking you to squeeze yourself inside of it. Because the categories, I've found, are too limiting. The boxes are too narrow. And this can get really dangerous. So here's a disclaimer about me, though, before we get too deep into this. I grew up in a very sheltered environment. I was raised in downtown Manhattan in the early 1980s, two blocks from the epicenter of punk music. I was shielded from the pains of bigotry and the social restrictions of a religiously-based upbringing. Where I come from, if you weren't a drag queen or a radical thinker or a performance artist of some kind, you were the weirdo. (Laughter) It was an unorthodox upbringing, but as a kid on the streets of New York, you learn how to trust your own instincts, you learn how to go with your own ideas. So when I was six, I decided that I wanted to be a boy. I went to school one day and the kids wouldn't let me play basketball with them. They said they wouldn't let girls play. So I went home, and I shaved my head, and I came back the next day and I said, ""I'm a boy."" I mean, who knows, right? When you're six, maybe you can do that. I didn't want anyone to know that I was a girl, and they didn't. I kept up the charade for eight years. So this is me when I was 11. I was playing a kid named Walter in a movie called ""Julian Po."" I was a little street tough that followed Christian Slater around and badgered him. See, I was also a child actor, which doubled up the layers of the performance of my identity, because no one knew that I was actually a girl really playing a boy. In fact, no one in my life knew that I was a girl — not my teachers at school, not my friends, not the directors that I worked with. Kids would often come up to me in class and grab me by the throat to check for an Adam's apple or grab my crotch to check what I was working with. When I would go to the bathroom, I would turn my shoes around in the stalls so that it looked like I was peeing standing up. At sleepovers I would have panic attacks trying to break it to girls that they didn't want to kiss me without outing myself. It's worth mentioning though that I didn't hate my body or my genitalia. I didn't feel like I was in the wrong body. I felt like I was performing this elaborate act. I wouldn't have qualified as transgender. If my family, though, had been the kind of people to believe in therapy, they probably would have diagnosed me as something like gender dysmorphic and put me on hormones to stave off puberty. But in my particular case, I just woke up one day when I was 14, and I decided that I wanted to be a girl again. Puberty had hit, and I had no idea what being a girl meant, and I was ready to figure out who I actually was. When a kid behaves like I did, they don't exactly have to come out, right? No one is exactly shocked. (Laughter) But I wasn't asked to define myself by my parents. When I was 15, and I called my father to tell him that I had fallen in love, it was the last thing on either of our minds to discuss what the consequences were of the fact that my first love was a girl. Three years later, when I fell in love with a man, neither of my parents batted an eyelash either. See, it's one of the great blessings of my very unorthodox childhood that I wasn't ever asked to define myself as any one thing at any point. I was just allowed to be me, growing and changing in every moment. So four, almost five years ago, Proposition 8, the great marriage equality debate, was raising a lot of dust around this country. And at the time, getting married wasn't really something I spent a lot of time thinking about. But I was struck by the fact that America, a country with such a tarnished civil rights record, could be repeating its mistakes so blatantly. And I remember watching the discussion on television and thinking how interesting it was that the separation of church and state was essentially drawing geographical boundaries throughout this country, between places where people believed in it and places where people didn't. And then, that this discussion was drawing geographical boundaries around me. If this was a war with two disparate sides, I, by default, fell on team gay, because I certainly wasn't 100 percent straight. At the time I was just beginning to emerge from this eight-year personal identity crisis zigzag that saw me go from being a boy to being this awkward girl that looked like a boy in girl's clothes to the opposite extreme of this super skimpy, over-compensating, boy-chasing girly-girl to finally just a hesitant exploration of what I actually was, a tomboyish girl who liked both boys and girls depending on the person. I had spent a year photographing this new generation of girls, much like myself, who fell kind of between-the-lines — girls who skateboarded but did it in lacy underwear, girls who had boys' haircuts but wore girly nail polish, girls who had eyeshadow to match their scraped knees, girls who liked girls and boys who all liked boys and girls who all hated being boxed in to anything. I loved these people, and I admired their freedom, but I watched as the world outside of our utopian bubble exploded into these raging debates where pundits started likening our love to bestiality on national television. And this powerful awareness rolled in over me that I was a minority, and in my own home country, based on one facet of my character. I was legally and indisputably a second-class citizen. I was not an activist. I wave no flags in my own life. But I was plagued by this question: How could anyone vote to strip the rights of the vast variety of people that I knew based on one element of their character? How could they say that we as a group were not deserving of equal rights as somebody else? Were we even a group? What group? And had these people ever even consciously met a victim of their discrimination? Did they know who they were voting against and what the impact was? And then it occurred to me, perhaps if they could look into the eyes of the people that they were casting into second-class citizenship it might make it harder for them to do. It might give them pause. Obviously I couldn't get 20 million people to the same dinner party, so I figured out a way where I could introduce them to each other photographically without any artifice, without any lighting, or without any manipulation of any kind on my part. Because in a photograph you can examine a lion's whiskers without the fear of him ripping your face off. For me, photography is not just about exposing film, it's about exposing the viewer to something new, a place they haven't gone before, but most importantly, to people that they might be afraid of. Life magazine introduced generations of people to distant, far-off cultures they never knew existed through pictures. So I decided to make a series of very simple portraits, mugshots if you will. And I basically decided to photograph anyone in this country that was not 100 percent straight, which, if you don't know, is a limitless number of people. (Laughter) So this was a very large undertaking, and to do it we needed some help. So I ran out in the freezing cold, and I photographed every single person that I knew that I could get to in February of about two years ago. And I took those photographs, and I went to the HRC and I asked them for some help. And they funded two weeks of shooting in New York. And then we made this. (Music) Video: I'm iO Tillett Wright, and I'm an artist born and raised in New York City. (Music) Self Evident Truths is a photographic record of LGBTQ America today. My aim is to take a simple portrait of anyone who's anything other than 100 percent straight or feels like they fall in the LGBTQ spectrum in any way. My goal is to show the humanity that exists in every one of us through the simplicity of a face. (Music) ""We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal."" It's written in the Declaration of Independence. We are failing as a nation to uphold the morals upon which we were founded. There is no equality in the United States. [""What does equality mean to you?""] [""Marriage""] [""Freedom""] [""Civil rights""] [""Treat every person as you'd treat yourself""] It's when you don't have to think about it, simple as that. The fight for equal rights is not just about gay marriage. Today in 29 states, more than half of this country, you can legally be fired just for your sexuality. [""Who is responsible for equality?""] I've heard hundreds of people give the same answer: ""We are all responsible for equality."" So far we've shot 300 faces in New York City. And we wouldn't have been able to do any of it without the generous support of the Human Rights Campaign. I want to take the project across the country. I want to visit 25 American cities, and I want to shoot 4,000 or 5,000 people. This is my contribution to the civil rights fight of my generation. I challenge you to look into the faces of these people and tell them that they deserve less than any other human being. (Music) [""Self evident truths""] [""4,000 faces across America""] (Music) (Applause) iO Tillett Wright: Absolutely nothing could have prepared us for what happened after that. Almost 85,000 people watched that video, and then they started emailing us from all over the country, asking us to come to their towns and help them to show their faces. And a lot more people wanted to show their faces than I had anticipated. So I changed my immediate goal to 10,000 faces. That video was made in the spring of 2011, and as of today I have traveled to almost 20 cities and photographed almost 2,000 people. I know that this is a talk, but I'd like to have a minute of just quiet and have you just look at these faces because there is nothing that I can say that will add to them. Because if a picture is worth a thousand words, then a picture of a face needs a whole new vocabulary. So after traveling and talking to people in places like Oklahoma or small-town Texas, we found evidence that the initial premise was dead on. Visibility really is key. Familiarity really is the gateway drug to empathy. Once an issue pops up in your own backyard or amongst your own family, you're far more likely to explore sympathy for it or explore a new perspective on it. Of course, in my travels I met people who legally divorced their children for being other than straight, but I also met people who were Southern Baptists who switched churches because their child was a lesbian. Sparking empathy had become the backbone of Self Evident Truths. But here's what I was starting to learn that was really interesting: Self Evident Truths doesn't erase the differences between us. In fact, on the contrary, it highlights them. It presents, not just the complexities found in a procession of different human beings, but the complexities found within each individual person. It wasn't that we had too many boxes, it was that we had too few. At some point I realized that my mission to photograph ""gays"" was inherently flawed, because there were a million different shades of gay. Here I was trying to help, and I had perpetuated the very thing I had spent my life trying to avoid — yet another box. At some point I added a question to the release form that asked people to quantify themselves on a scale of one to 100 percent gay. And I watched so many existential crises unfold in front of me. (Laughter) People didn't know what to do because they had never been presented with the option before. Can you quantify your openness? Once they got over the shock, though, by and large people opted for somewhere between 70 to 95 percent or the 3 to 20 percent marks. Of course, there were lots of people who opted for a 100 percent one or the other, but I found that a much larger proportion of people identified as something that was much more nuanced. I found that most people fall on a spectrum of what I have come to refer to as ""Grey."" Let me be clear though — and this is very important — in no way am I saying that preference doesn't exist. And I am not even going to address the issue of choice versus biological imperative, because if any of you happen to be of the belief that sexual orientation is a choice, I invite you to go out and try to be grey. I'll take your picture just for trying. (Laughter) What I am saying though is that human beings are not one-dimensional. The most important thing to take from the percentage system is this: If you have gay people over here and you have straight people over here, and while we recognize that most people identify as somewhere closer to one binary or another, there is this vast spectrum of people that exist in between. And the reality that this presents is a complicated one. Because, for example, if you pass a law that allows a boss to fire an employee for homosexual behavior, where exactly do you draw the line? Is it over here, by the people who have had one or two heterosexual experiences so far? Or is it over here by the people who have only had one or two homosexual experiences thus far? Where exactly does one become a second-class citizen? Another interesting thing that I learned from my project and my travels is just what a poor binding agent sexual orientation is. After traveling so much and meeting so many people, let me tell you, there are just as many jerks and sweethearts and Democrats and Republicans and jocks and queens and every other polarization you can possibly think of within the LGBT community as there are within the human race. Aside from the fact that we play with one legal hand tied behind our backs, and once you get past the shared narrative of prejudice and struggle, just being other than straight doesn't necessarily mean that we have anything in common. So in the endless proliferation of faces that Self Evident Truths is always becoming, as it hopefully appears across more and more platforms, bus shelters, billboards, Facebook pages, screen savers, perhaps in watching this procession of humanity, something interesting and useful will begin to happen. Hopefully these categories, these binaries, these over-simplified boxes will begin to become useless and they'll begin to fall away. Because really, they describe nothing that we see and no one that we know and nothing that we are. What we see are human beings in all their multiplicity. And seeing them makes it harder to deny their humanity. At the very least I hope it makes it harder to deny their human rights. So is it me particularly that you would choose to deny the right to housing, the right to adopt children, the right to marriage, the freedom to shop here, live here, buy here? Am I the one that you choose to disown as your child or your brother or your sister or your mother or your father, your neighbor, your cousin, your uncle, the president, your police woman or the fireman? It's too late. Because I already am all of those things. We already are all of those things, and we always have been. So please don't greet us as strangers, greet us as your fellow human beings, period. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們在看到別人的第一刻起就把對方裝進了不同的箱子 -他（她）有危險麼？有吸引力麼？有可能成為交往對象麼？是擴充人脈的機會麼？我們在遇見他人的時候都會這樣在腦海中為他（她）建立一個履歷。你叫什麼名字？來自哪裡？幾歲了？做什麼工作？然後是更私人的問題 —有沒有得過什麼病？離過婚嗎？在回答我的問題時有口臭嗎？你喜歡什麼？你喜歡什麼樣的人？喜歡同性還是異性？ 我早明白了：我們的大腦早就已經設定好了，去尋找和我們相似的人。當我們感覺到被人認可的那一刻，我們就開始建立自己的小集團。任何特徵都可以把我們聯繫起來—音樂喜好，種族，性別，一起成長的小區...我們都在尋找能夠強化我們個人選擇的環境。有時候，僅僅是“你是做什麼的”這個問題就足夠讓你覺得有人打開了一個小盒子，試圖把你塞進去。我認為，這種盒子中的分類太有局限性了，盒子的空間太狹小了。而且這可能會變得很危險。 在我們更深入地討論之前，我要先坦白地聲明：我在一個受庇護的環境中長大。一九八零年代初期，我生長在曼哈頓市區，離朋克音樂中心只有兩個街區的距離。我沒有歷經社會偏見以及在強烈宗教環境的社會約束所帶來的痛苦。我長大的地方，如果你不是偽娘，激進分子，或某種行為藝術家，你才是個怪胎。（觀眾笑）我的成長過程是有點叛逆，非傳統的但是作為一個紐約街頭的小孩，你會學會要相信自己的直覺，跟著自己的想法走。 在我六歲的時候，我決定要做一個小伙子。有一天我在學校想打籃球但是別的孩子不跟我玩，他們說不跟女孩子玩。於是我回到家，剃掉了頭髮，第二天我回到那裡對他們說，“我是男孩”。我是說，誰看得出來呢，對吧？當你六歲的時候你也能這麼做。我不希望任何人知道我是女孩，我做到了，我這麼偽裝了8年。 這張照片是我11歲時候照的。我在電影“相約在來生”中扮演一個叫沃特的小孩。我是個街頭小混混，成天跟在克里斯琴·斯內特左右，纏著他。我是一個童星，這在兩個層面上掩飾了我的身份，因為沒有人知道我在女扮男裝。事實上沒有任何和我接觸的人知道我是女孩 —學校的老師、我朋友和跟我一起拍戲的導演都不知道。在教室裡小伙伴們時常會掐著我的脖子看有沒有喉結，或抓我的檔部看看我是男是女。當我上廁所的時候我把鞋子反過來穿著這樣看起來像是在站著小便。在外過夜的時候，我時常會恐慌：如何在不暴露自己的前提下把這個事件告訴那些不想親吻我的女孩。 我需要澄清一下，我不討厭我的身體或性別，我沒覺得我投錯了胎—我只是覺得這是一場精心籌備的演出。我沒有資格被成為變性人。假如我的家人是相信心理治療的話，他們或許會認為我是性別畸形，或許給我注射激素，以推遲青春期。但在我這個案例中，我在14歲的時候突然的覺醒了，決定重新做回女生。青春期來了，我不知道這個決定意味著什麼，但是我想找到真正的自我。 像我這樣（女扮男裝）的孩子，其實用不著宣佈出櫃的，對吧沒有人覺得意外。（觀眾笑）但是我的父母並沒有要求我給自己歸類。在我15歲的時候，我給爸爸打電話告訴他我戀愛了我們誰都沒有想過去討論喜歡上一個女孩子可能帶來的後果。三年後當我愛上一個男人時，我的父母眼皮都沒眨一下。瞧，在我離經叛道的童年經歷中最大的幸運，就是我從來沒有被要求把自己歸為某個確定的類別。我能夠自由地做自己，成長，並隨時改變自己。 所以大概四、五年前，關於同性戀婚姻合法化第八號提案在美國引起了巨大的關注。那個時候我還沒有花太多時間考慮結婚的問題。但是讓我震驚的是，有著那樣不堪的人權歷史的美國，竟然又一次公然地重複自己的錯誤。我還記得在電視上看到人們的辯論時，覺得多麼的好玩：宗教之間和州之間的差異使得國家被劃出一條地理上的界限，這邊的人們持贊成觀點，那邊的人持反對態度。然後我發現這些討論也在我的身上畫下了界限。 如果這是兩方相互對立的戰爭，我應該歸為同性戀這一邊，因為我顯然不是百分之百“直”的（異性戀）。那個時候我剛剛跌跌撞撞的從八年的自我認同危機中走出來，從一個男孩變成一個看起來像穿著女孩子衣服的男孩子的女孩子，到一個超級性感，過度補償的，超有女人味的男孩子夢寐以求的女孩子，到現在最終發現了真實的自己，一個男孩子氣的女孩，取決於對象，會喜歡男孩也會喜歡女孩。 我曾花了一年的時間拍攝像我一樣的，覺得自己處在兩個極端之間的女孩子 -穿著蕾絲內衣玩滑板的女孩剪男士短發但是塗指甲的女孩，塗跟膝蓋瘀傷顏色一致的眼影的女孩，喜歡女孩也喜歡男孩的女孩，討厭被放進任何盒子裡的女孩。我愛她們，我讚賞她們的自由，但是我看到在我們的小小烏托邦之​​外的世界，憤怒的辯論在這個國家的公共電視台上演：專家們把我們的愛比喻成禽獸不如的行徑。這讓我強烈地感覺到，我屬於少數，在我自己的國家，我被視作一個異類了，僅僅因為我性格中某一方面的特點。我是毫無疑問地被法律規定為二等公民。 我不是激進份子。我從來沒有參加過遊行示威。但是卻被這個​​問題困擾：為什麼人可以僅僅根據別人性格中某一個特徵就將那麼多行色各異的人的權利剝奪？他們怎麼能說我們都是不配享受與他們同動公民權利的另一類人？我們打頭來是一類人麼？哪一類？這些（投贊成票的）人有試圖了解過被他們歧視的受害者麼？他們知道他們在投票支持什麼，會帶來什麼影響麼？ 然後我想到了，如果他們能夠有機會凝視一次他們認為是二等公民的人的眼睛，他們或許會更難投出這一票...或許會讓他們想一下。很顯然我不能開一個兩千萬人的派對，而我能想到的方法是通過照片讓他們相互認識我不會對照片做任何處理，不做燈光特效，不做改動，什麼都不做。因為照片的好處在於你可以在審視獅子的鬍鬚的同時，不用擔心牠會撲過來撕破你的臉。 對我而言，攝影不僅僅是曝光膠卷那麼簡單，它讓觀看者看到新的東西，體驗從未有過的感覺，最重要的，讓人們審視他們可能畏懼的人。《生活》雜誌上載者通過圖片向一代人介紹了他們從未接觸的遙遠的、與眾不同的文化。所以我決定製作一系列簡單的肖像照，或者叫大頭照。簡單來說我拍攝這個國家任何不是百分之百“直”的人，如果你沒有意識到這樣的人多得數不清。 （笑） 所以這是一個非常大的工作量，我需要一些幫助來做這個。所以在兩年前的二月，我在刺骨的寒冷中，拍攝了我能找到的每一個這樣的人。我拍了這些照片，我去找HRC（人權組織），希望能得到幫助。他們提供了贊助，（我們）在紐約進行了兩週的攝影。這是我們的成果。 （音樂） 我是歐伊·蒂利特·萊特，紐約土生土長的藝術家。（音樂） “不證自明的真理”（Self Evident Truths）是今天美國非異性戀群體的攝影記錄。我的目標是為在任何方面覺得自己不是百分之百“直”的人拍攝一幅簡單的肖像。我的目標是通過一張質樸的臉向大家闡釋人性存在於每個人身上。（音樂） ...我們認為人人生而平等這樣的真理是不證自明的。它被寫在獨立宣言中。我們，作為一個國家，正在喪失建國時候所堅持的信念。這樣的美國沒有平等可言。 “平等對你意味著什麼？”“婚姻”，“自由”，“公民權利”，“待人如己” 平等本不需要深思熟慮，它本該如此。爭取平等的鬥爭不僅僅是為了同性婚姻。今天，美國的29個州，超過美國州總數一半，你可能因為性取向而被合法的炒掉。 “誰有義務捍衛平等嗎？” 我聽到很多人給出了同樣的答案：“我們都有義務保證平等”目前我們在紐約拍攝了三百張人像。沒有人權組織陣營的大力支持我們無法做到這一點。我希望在整個國家開展該項活動。我希望遊歷25個美國城市，拍攝4000到5000個人。這是我為我這一代人的公民權利鬥爭做出的努力。我要求你看著這些肖像的眼睛對他們說他們不配享有跟你一樣的權利。（音樂） “不證自明的真理”“全美國四千張肖像” （音樂）（鼓掌） 我們當時絕對想不到這之後發生的事情。大概八萬五千人觀看了視頻後給我們發電子郵件，要我們去他們的小鎮拍攝，展示他們的肖像。想要參與的人數遠遠超過的了預計。所以我把我的目標提高到了一萬張肖像。視頻製作自2011年的春天，而今年我已經在將近20個城市拍攝了將近2000個人的大頭照。 我知道現在是演講，但是我希望能留出一分鐘時間什麼都不說，只是看著他們的臉，因為我想不出需要補充什麼。因為一張圖片勝過千言萬語，沒有一個詞彙可以詮釋一副面孔。 在我遊歷許多地方，比如奧克拉荷馬州和德克薩斯州（譯者注：都是保守州）並與那裡小鎮上的人交談之後，我們發現... 有跡象顯示之前的提案已經漸漸消失了。相互了解是關鍵。熟悉程度是引發同情的重要因素。當一個問題出現在你家後院或你自己的家庭中，你去同情的可能性會倍增，或變得願意接受一個新的觀點。當然，在我的旅行中我遇見了跟同性戀子女斷絕法律關係的父母，但是我也看到了有些父母，當他們知道他們的孩子是同性戀時，他們從美南浸信會（譯者注：立場保守）改信了其他基督派別。同理心的觸動是“不證自明的真理”的基石。 但是接下來我發現了真正有趣的事情：“不證自明的真理”並沒有消除我們之間的差異。相反地，差異被突出了。這體現出這件事情的複雜性，不僅體現在不同的人群之間，也體現在每個獨立的個人之間。我們的盒子不是太多，而是太少。 在某刻我意識到我拍攝“同性戀者”的計劃一開始就有瑕疵，“同性戀者”這個英英解釋可以分成上百萬種不同的分類。我希望能夠做點什麼，而我接下來做的事情是我畢生想要去避免的 -創造新的盒子。從某刻開始我在自己的問卷中添加了一個問題，要求填寫者評估自己“同性戀”的程度，從零分到一百分給自己打分。然後我就目睹了無數的自我存在危機在我面前上演。（觀眾笑）人們從來沒有被問過這個問題，也不知道怎麼回答。你能量化自己有多開放麼？ 當他們緩過神來之後，多數人給自己的分數在70到95分或者3到20分之間。當然也有人認為自己是百分百的異性戀或同性戀，但是我發現非常大比例的人自我定位都是比較微妙的。我發現大多數人在這個色譜上都落在“灰色”的位置。 我要明確一點 - 非常明確的一點 -我從未否認過偏好的存在。我也沒有打算去討論這個問題是先天基因還是後天選擇決定的，但是如果你們當中有人相信性取向是後天選擇的，我邀請你站出來承認自己是“灰”的。我想給你拍張大頭照，以鼓勵你嘗試的勇氣。（觀眾笑）我想說，人類不是單一維度就可以區分的。百分制評價標準最重要的一點是：如果這邊是完全的同性戀，另一邊是完全的異性戀，當大多數人將自己定位成靠近異性戀或靠近同性戀這一極端的位置時，有相當多的人落在了這個色譜的中間位置。 而事實上，這展示的是一個很複雜​​的問題。因為，比如，你們通過一項法律允許老闆開除有同性戀行為的員工，那麼這條線應該畫在（色譜的）哪裡？是畫在這裡，有過一到兩次異性戀經歷的人這頭嗎？還是畫在那裡，只有過一到兩次同性戀經歷的人那頭？究竟是什麼原因使得一個人變成了二等公民？ 我的項目和我的遊歷經歷讓我學到的另一個有趣的事情是性取向對於人們的同化作用微乎其微。在遊歷了這麼多地方，跟那麼多人見面之後，我告訴你，同性戀團體中也有笨蛋，好人，民主黨支持者，共和黨支持者，筋肉人，女神，你能在人類群體中發現的所有的觀點差異在同性戀團體中都存在。是的，我們一起反抗意圖束縛我們權利的法律，但是當你撇開我們被歧視和一起抗爭的共同經歷，“非異性戀”這個身份，並不表示我們之間有什麼共同點。 所以隨著“不證自明的真理”活動的開展，無窮無盡的新人臉照片被加進來，它可能出現在更多的平台，公共汽車候車亭，廣告牌，Facebook的頁面，屏幕保護程式中。或許隨著人性的發展，一些有趣和有用的事情將會發生。這些分類，二分法，過度簡化的盒子，或許有希望變得沒有用處，並開始消失。因為這些標準無法描述我們所看到的、所知道的人，也無法描繪我們是什麼。我們看到的是人類的多樣性。而親眼看到他們使得人們很難否認他們的人性。最低程度我希望這些面孔讓人更難否定他們的人權。 所以，我是否就是你所針對的那種人，拒絕承認我有居住的權利，撫養孩子的權利，結婚的權利，開店，生活，購物的自由嗎？我是否就是你決定要脫離關係的人你的子女，你的兄弟姐妹，你的父母，你的鄰居，你的堂兄，你的舅舅，美國總統，你（社區中）的女警或消防員？太遲了。因為我已經是你生活的一部分了。我們已經是相互生活的一部分，我們也將繼續如此。所以請不要視我們為陌生人，視我們為跟你一樣的人。就這樣。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
