Talk	en	zh-tw
isaac_lidsky_what_reality_are_you_creating_for_yourself	"When Dorothy was a little girl, she was fascinated by her goldfish. Her father explained to her that fish swim by quickly wagging their tails to propel themselves through the water. Without hesitation, little Dorothy responded, ""Yes, Daddy, and fish swim backwards by wagging their heads."" (Laughter) In her mind, it was a fact as true as any other. Fish swim backwards by wagging their heads. She believed it. Our lives are full of fish swimming backwards. We make assumptions and faulty leaps of logic. We harbor bias. We know that we are right, and they are wrong. We fear the worst. We strive for unattainable perfection. We tell ourselves what we can and cannot do. In our minds, fish swim by in reverse frantically wagging their heads and we don't even notice them. I'm going to tell you five facts about myself. One fact is not true. One: I graduated from Harvard at 19 with an honors degree in mathematics. Two: I currently run a construction company in Orlando. Three: I starred on a television sitcom. Four: I lost my sight to a rare genetic eye disease. Five: I served as a law clerk to two US Supreme Court justices. Which fact is not true? Actually, they're all true. Yeah. They're all true. (Applause) At this point, most people really only care about the television show. (Laughter) I know this from experience. OK, so the show was NBC's ""Saved by the Bell: The New Class."" And I played Weasel Wyzell, who was the sort of dorky, nerdy character on the show, which made it a very major acting challenge for me as a 13-year-old boy. (Laughter) Now, did you struggle with number four, my blindness? Why is that? We make assumptions about so-called disabilities. As a blind man, I confront others' incorrect assumptions about my abilities every day. My point today is not about my blindness, however. It's about my vision. Going blind taught me to live my life eyes wide open. It taught me to spot those backwards-swimming fish that our minds create. Going blind cast them into focus. What does it feel like to see? It's immediate and passive. You open your eyes and there's the world. Seeing is believing. Sight is truth. Right? Well, that's what I thought. Then, from age 12 to 25, my retinas progressively deteriorated. My sight became an increasingly bizarre carnival funhouse hall of mirrors and illusions. The salesperson I was relieved to spot in a store was really a mannequin. Reaching down to wash my hands, I suddenly saw it was a urinal I was touching, not a sink, when my fingers felt its true shape. A friend described the photograph in my hand, and only then I could see the image depicted. Objects appeared, morphed and disappeared in my reality. It was difficult and exhausting to see. I pieced together fragmented, transitory images, consciously analyzed the clues, searched for some logic in my crumbling kaleidoscope, until I saw nothing at all. I learned that what we see is not universal truth. It is not objective reality. What we see is a unique, personal, virtual reality that is masterfully constructed by our brain. Let me explain with a bit of amateur neuroscience. Your visual cortex takes up about 30 percent of your brain. That's compared to approximately eight percent for touch and two to three percent for hearing. Every second, your eyes can send your visual cortex as many as two billion pieces of information. The rest of your body can send your brain only an additional billion. So sight is one third of your brain by volume and can claim about two thirds of your brain's processing resources. It's no surprise then that the illusion of sight is so compelling. But make no mistake about it: sight is an illusion. Here's where it gets interesting. To create the experience of sight, your brain references your conceptual understanding of the world, other knowledge, your memories, opinions, emotions, mental attention. All of these things and far more are linked in your brain to your sight. These linkages work both ways, and usually occur subconsciously. So for example, what you see impacts how you feel, and the way you feel can literally change what you see. Numerous studies demonstrate this. If you are asked to estimate the walking speed of a man in a video, for example, your answer will be different if you're told to think about cheetahs or turtles. A hill appears steeper if you've just exercised, and a landmark appears farther away if you're wearing a heavy backpack. We have arrived at a fundamental contradiction. What you see is a complex mental construction of your own making, but you experience it passively as a direct representation of the world around you. You create your own reality, and you believe it. I believed mine until it broke apart. The deterioration of my eyes shattered the illusion. You see, sight is just one way we shape our reality. We create our own realities in many other ways. Let's take fear as just one example. Your fears distort your reality. Under the warped logic of fear, anything is better than the uncertain. Fear fills the void at all costs, passing off what you dread for what you know, offering up the worst in place of the ambiguous, substituting assumption for reason. Psychologists have a great term for it: awfulizing. (Laughter) Right? Fear replaces the unknown with the awful. Now, fear is self-realizing. When you face the greatest need to look outside yourself and think critically, fear beats a retreat deep inside your mind, shrinking and distorting your view, drowning your capacity for critical thought with a flood of disruptive emotions. When you face a compelling opportunity to take action, fear lulls you into inaction, enticing you to passively watch its prophecies fulfill themselves. When I was diagnosed with my blinding disease, I knew blindness would ruin my life. Blindness was a death sentence for my independence. It was the end of achievement for me. Blindness meant I would live an unremarkable life, small and sad, and likely alone. I knew it. This was a fiction born of my fears, but I believed it. It was a lie, but it was my reality, just like those backwards-swimming fish in little Dorothy's mind. If I had not confronted the reality of my fear, I would have lived it. I am certain of that. So how do you live your life eyes wide open? It is a learned discipline. It can be taught. It can be practiced. I will summarize very briefly. Hold yourself accountable for every moment, every thought, every detail. See beyond your fears. Recognize your assumptions. Harness your internal strength. Silence your internal critic. Correct your misconceptions about luck and about success. Accept your strengths and your weaknesses, and understand the difference. Open your hearts to your bountiful blessings. Your fears, your critics, your heroes, your villains — they are your excuses, rationalizations, shortcuts, justifications, your surrender. They are fictions you perceive as reality. Choose to see through them. Choose to let them go. You are the creator of your reality. With that empowerment comes complete responsibility. I chose to step out of fear's tunnel into terrain uncharted and undefined. I chose to build there a blessed life. Far from alone, I share my beautiful life with Dorothy, my beautiful wife, with our triplets, whom we call the Tripskys, and with the latest addition to the family, sweet baby Clementine. What do you fear? What lies do you tell yourself? How do you embellish your truth and write your own fictions? What reality are you creating for yourself? In your career and personal life, in your relationships, and in your heart and soul, your backwards-swimming fish do you great harm. They exact a toll in missed opportunities and unrealized potential, and they engender insecurity and distrust where you seek fulfillment and connection. I urge you to search them out. Helen Keller said that the only thing worse than being blind is having sight but no vision. For me, going blind was a profound blessing, because blindness gave me vision. I hope you can see what I see. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Isaac, before you leave the stage, just a question. This is an audience of entrepreneurs, of doers, of innovators. You are a CEO of a company down in Florida, and many are probably wondering, how is it to be a blind CEO? What kind of specific challenges do you have, and how do you overcome them? Isaac Lidsky: Well, the biggest challenge became a blessing. I don't get visual feedback from people. (Laughter) BG: What's that noise there? IL: Yeah. So, for example, in my leadership team meetings, I don't see facial expressions or gestures. I've learned to solicit a lot more verbal feedback. I basically force people to tell me what they think. And in this respect, it's become, like I said, a real blessing for me personally and for my company, because we communicate at a far deeper level, we avoid ambiguities, and most important, my team knows that what they think truly matters. BG: Isaac, thank you for coming to TED. IL: Thank you, Bruno. (Applause)"	當桃樂絲仍是小女孩時，她對她的金魚著迷她爸爸向她解釋，魚靠擺動尾巴來推動自己在水中前進。毫不猶豫地，小桃樂絲回應，「是的，爸爸，魚靠搖頭來向後游泳。」 （笑聲） 在她腦海中，這是個不爭的事實。魚靠搖頭來向後游泳。她相信這件事。 我們的生活充滿向後游泳的魚。我們作出假設和邏輯上的錯誤跳躍。我們懷有偏見。我們認為我們對，而他們錯。我們害怕最壞的情況。我們力求不可達到的完美。我們告訴自己可以和不可以做的事。在我們腦海里，魚瘋狂地搖著頭向後游 而我們甚至不曾察覺。 我將告訴你五件關於我的事。有一件是假的。第一：我 19 歲於哈佛畢業，獲得數學榮譽學士學位。第二：我現在在奧蘭多經營一間建築公司。第三：我曾在電視的情景喜劇中演出。第四：我因為患有罕見遺傳性眼疾而失去視覺。第五：我曾是兩位美國最高法院大法官的法律助理。哪一件是假的？其實，都是真的。對。都是真的。 （掌聲） 在這一刻，大部分人其實只在乎那電視節目。 （笑聲） 這是經驗告訴我的。那節目是 NBC 的「救命下課鈴之新班級」。我出演 Weasel Wyzell 的角色，有點學究、書呆子的性格，對於13歲的我來說，這是很大的演出挑戰。 （笑聲） 那你是否很難相信第四件事，我的失明？為什麼這樣？我們有一些關於所謂殘疾的假設。身為盲人，我每天面對別人對於我能力的錯誤假設。但是我今天想說的不是關於我看不到甚麼，而是闗於我看到甚麼。失明教會我睜開雙眼去生活。它教會我找出我們在腦海里創造的，那些向後游的魚。失明將它們置於我的關注焦點中。 看見是怎樣的感覺？它是即時而且被動的。你張開眼睛，世界就在眼前。看見即是相信。所見即是真相。對嗎？嗯，這是我當時的想法。 然後，由 12 至 25 歲，我的視網膜逐漸衰退。我看到的影像變得好像逐漸變得奇怪的嘉年華遊樂場鏡面幻象屋中所見的景象。我在商店裡看到的售貨員實際上是一個人體模型。蹲下洗手，當我的手指碰觸感覺到它真正的形狀時，我突然“看到”我觸踫到的是便池，而不是洗手盆，朋友形容我手中的相片，而只有在那時我能看到那張相片。事物出現、變形又消失在我的真實世界裡。看見成了困難和耗費心神的事。我拼砌破碎的、轉瞬即逝的影像，有意識地分析線索，在我逐漸破碎的萬花筒中尋找一些合理組合，直至我什麼也看不見。 我認識到我們看到的並不是普遍的真相。它不是客觀的事實。我們看到的是獨有的、個人的虛擬現實。這由我們的腦精妙地控制並構建出來的。 讓我用業餘的神經科學知識來稍作解釋。你的視覺皮層佔你大腦總皮層的 30 ％。而觸覺占 8％，聽覺占 2-3％。每一秒，你的眼睛能傳送給你的視覺皮層高達二百億份訊息。你其他身體部分合起來只能傳達額外的一百億份訊息。所以視覺佔你大腦體積的三分之一，但卻佔用你大腦處理訊息容量的三分之二。因此視覺幻象看起來如此可信，也就不足為奇了。但不要誤判它：視覺影像只是幻象。 這是事情變得有趣的地方。為創造視覺經驗，你的大腦建基於你對世界的認知、其他知識儲備、你的記憶、意見、情感、心理關注。以上所有及其他多項信息，在腦中與你的所見相關聯。這些連結雙向影響，並通常在潛意識上發生。舉例來說，你的所見影響著你的感受，而你的感受又能確實地改變你的所見。大量研究證實這件事。例如，如果有人請你估計，影片中男人的步速，當請你想著豹或烏龜時，你的答案會有所不同。如果你剛做完運動，小山丘看來較陡峭；而一個地標在你背著沉重行囊時，看起來更遠。我們在此踫到一種基本矛盾。你的所見其實是你自己的複雜心理建設，而你被動地把它當作你周遭世界的直接呈獻。你創造你自己的真實，並且你相信它。我曽相信我的，直至它支離破碎。我眼睛的衰退粉碎了這假象。 你看，視覺只是其中一種讓我們塑造真實的方式。我們有很多其它方式來創造自己的真實。讓我們以恐懼作為例子。你的種種恐懼扭曲你的真實。在恐懼扭曲的邏輯下，任何事情比未知都更好的。恐嚇不惜任何代價來填補空白，用你非常擔心的事假冒你知道的事，把不明確的事當作是最壞的情況，以假設取代原因。心理學家就此有個很好的詞語：「可怕化」 （笑聲） 不是嗎？恐懼以糟糕的事代替未知。恐懼將所恐懼的事變成現實。當你非常需要反省自身和批判思考時，恐懼控制你深藏在腦海的懦弱，讓你打退堂鼓，縮窄並扭曲你的視野，用破壞性情緒的洪流，淹沒你判斷思考的能力。當你面對一個非常吸引人的機會，恐懼使你軟弱得無法行動，引誘你被動地看著你所恐懼的事成為現實。 當我被診斷出將會因病失明，我確信失明將會破壞我的人生。失明曾判了我的自主獨立死刑。我曾認為這是成就的終點。失明曾意味著我會活得平凡無聊，卑微而悲傷，並可能獨自一人。我知道。這是我的恐懼創造的假象，但我曾相信它。它是假的，但它卻曾是我的真實，正如小桃樂絲腦海中反方向游泳的魚。若我沒有正視我的恐懼，我就會讓恐懼成真。我知道定會如此。 所以你如何張開眼睛正視你的人生？這是習得的自制力。它能被教授。它能被練習。我將非常簡單地總結。 對自己負責任，對於每一刻、每一個念頭、每一佪細節。超越你的恐懼。識別你的假設。利用你內在的力量。壓制你內心的批判。改正你對於運氣和成功的誤解。接受你的能力和弱點，並理解它們的分別。坦誠面對你所受的滿滿恩賜。 你的恐懼、你的批判、你的英雄、你的壞人—他們通通是你的藉口、文飾、捷徑、辯解、屈服。它們是你誤以為真的假象。選擇看穿它們。選擇放手讓它們離去。你是真實的創造者。有了這自主權，隨之而來的是絕對的責任。 我選擇了踏出恐懼的隧道，走進陌生而未被定義的地方。我選擇在那裡創造幸福人生。我不是獨自一人，我分享美麗人生，與桃樂絲，與我美麗的太太，與我們的三胞胎，我們稱他們為「Tripskys」，還有我們家的最新成員，可愛的嬰兒克萊門汀。 你害怕什麼？你欺騙自己什麼？你怎樣修飾你的真實，寫出你自己的故事？你為自己創造了怎樣的真實？ 在你的事業和個人生活中，在你各種關係中，在你的內心和靈魂中，那些向後游泳的魚嚴重傷害你。它們使你錯過機會讓你無從發揮潛能，而且它們在你尋求成就和人脈的地方，製造不安和猜疑。我敦促你把它們找出來。 海倫·凱勒說過唯一比失明更壞的事，是眼睛能看，但內心失明。對我來說，失明是很大的祝福。因為失明讓我的內心能看見。我希望你能看到我所看到的。 謝謝你們。 （掌聲） 布魯諾·朱薩尼：艾薩克，離開前，問你個問題。這裡的觀眾包括企業家、實幹家和創新者。你是一間位於佛羅里達的公司的行政總裁，很多人大概會想知道，身為失明的行政總裁是怎樣的？你有什麼特別的挑戰，而你如何克服它們？ 艾薩克·利茨基：嗯，最大的挑戰已變成一種祝福。我看不到別人的反應。 （笑聲） 布：甚麼聲音在那裡？艾：對。所以，舉例來說，在我領導的團隊的會議上，我看不到臉部表情或手勢。我學會更多地征求言語上的回饋。我基本上強逼別人告訴我他們的想法。在這方面，它變成，正如我所說，我個人和公司的一項福祉，因為我們作更深層次的溝通。我們避免含糊不清，最重要的是，我的團隊知道他們的想法非常重要。 布：艾薩克，謝謝你來到 TED。艾：謝謝你，布魯諾。 （掌聲）
