Talk	en	zh-tw
ismael_nazario_what_i_learned_as_a_kid_in_jail	"We need to change the culture in our jails and prisons, especially for young inmates. New York state is one of only two in the U.S. that automatically arrests and tries 16- to 17-year-olds as adults. This culture of violence takes these young people and puts them in a hostile environment, and the correctional officers pretty much allow any and everything to go on. There's not really much for these young people to do to actually enhance their talent and actually rehabilitate them. Until we can raise the age of criminal responsibility to 18, we need to focus on changing the daily lives of these young people. I know firsthand. Before I ever turned 18, I spent approximately 400 days on Rikers Island, and to add to that I spent almost 300 days in solitary confinement, and let me tell you this: Screaming at the top of your lungs all day on your cell door or screaming at the top of your lungs out the window, it gets tiring. Since there's not much for you to do while you're in there, you start pacing back and forth in your cell, you start talking to yourself, your thoughts start running wild, and then your thoughts become your own worst enemy. Jails are actually supposed to rehabilitate a person, not cause him or her to become more angry, frustrated, and feel more hopeless. Since there's not a discharge plan put in place for these young people, they pretty much  reenter society with nothing. And there's not really much for them to do to keep them from recidivating. But it all starts with the C.O.s. It's very easy for some people to look at these correctional officers as the good guys and the inmates as the bad guys, or vice versa for some, but it's a little more than that. See, these C.O.s are normal, everyday people. They come from the same neighborhoods as the population they ""serve."" They're just normal people. They're not robots, and there's  nothing special about them. They do pretty much everything anybody else in society does. The male C.O.s want to talk and flirt with the female C.O.s. They play the little high school kid games with each other. They politic with one another. And the female C.O.s gossip to each other. So I spent numerous amounts of time with numerous amounts of C.O.s, and let me tell you about this one in particular named Monroe. One day he pulled me in between the A and B doors which separate the north and south sides of our housing unit. He pulled me there because I had a physical altercation with another young man in my housing unit, and he felt, since there was a female officer working on the floor, that I violated his shift. So he punched me in my chest. He kind of knocked the wind out of me. I wasn't impulsive, I didn't react right away, because I know this is their house. I have no wins. All he has to do is pull his pin and backup will come immediately. So I just gave him a look in his eyes and I guess he saw the anger and frustration just burning, and he said to me, ""Your eyes are going to get you in a lot of trouble, because you're looking like you want to fight."" So he commenced to taking off his utility belt, he took off his shirt and his badge, and he said, ""We could fight."" So I asked him, ""You gonna hold it down?"" Now, that's a term that's commonly used on Rikers Island meaning that you're not going to say anything to anybody, and you're not going to report it. He said, ""Yeah, I'm gonna hold it down. You gonna hold it down?"" I didn't even respond. I just punched him right in his face, and we began fighting right then and there. Towards the end of the fight, he slammed me up against the wall, so while we were tussled up, he said to me, ""You good?"" as if he got the best of me, but in my mind, I know I got the best of him, so I replied very cocky, ""Oh, I'm good, you good?"" He said, ""Yeah, I'm good,  I'm good."" We let go, he shook my hand, said he gave me my respect, gave me a cigarette and sent me on my way. Believe it or not, you come across some C.O.s on Rikers Island that'll fight you one-on-one. They feel that they understand how it is, and they feel that I'm going to meet you where you're at. Since this is how you commonly handle your disputes, we can handle it in that manner. I walk away from it like a man, you walk away from it like a man, and that's it. Some C.O.s feel that they're jailing with you. This is why they have that mentality and that attitude and they go by that concept. In some instances, we're in it together with the C.O.s. However, institutions need to give these correctional officers proper trainings on how to properly deal with the adolescent population, and they also need to give them proper trainings on how to deal with  the mental health population as well. These C.O.s play a big factor in these young people's lives for x amount of time until a disposition is reached on their case. So why not try to mentor these young people while they're there? Why not try to give them some type of insight to make a change, so once they reenter back into society, they're doing something positive? A second big thing to help our teens in jails is better programming. When I was on Rikers Island, the huge thing was solitary confinement. Solitary confinement was originally designed to break a person mentally, physically and emotionally. That's what it was designed for. The U.S. Attorney General recently released a report stating that they're going to ban solitary confinement in New York state for teens. One thing that kept me sane while I was in solitary confinement was reading. I tried to educate myself as much as possible. I read any and everything I could get my hands on. And aside from that, I wrote music and short stories. Some programs that I feel would benefit our young people are art therapy programs for the kids that like to draw and have that talent, and what about the young individuals that are musically inclined? How about a music program for them that actually teaches them how to write and make music? Just a thought. When adolescents come to Rikers Island, C74, RNDC is the building that they're housed in. That's nicknamed ""gladiator school,"" because you have a young individual coming in from the street thinking that they're tough, being surrounded by a bunch of other young individuals from all of the five boroughs, and everybody feels that they're tough. So now you have a bunch of young gentlemen poking their chests out feeling that I have to prove I'm equally as tough as you or I'm tougher than you, you and you. But let's be honest: That culture is very dangerous and damaging to our young people. We need to help institutions and these teens realize that they don't have to lead the previous lifestyle that they led when they were on the street, that they can actually make a change. It's sad to report that while I was in prison, I used to hear dudes talking about when they get released from prison, what type of crimes they're going to commit when they get back in the street. The conversations used to sound something like this: ""Oh, when I hit the street, my brother got this connection for this, that and the third,"" or, ""My man over here got this connection for the low price. Let's exchange information,"" and, ""When we hit the town, we're going to do it real big."" I used to hear these conversations and think to myself, ""Wow, these dudes are really talking about going back in the street and committing future crimes."" So I came up with a name for that: I called it a go-back-to-jail-quick scheme because really, how long is that going to last? You get a retirement plan with that? Nice little pension? 401(k)? 403(b)? You get health insurance? Dental? (Laughter) But I will tell you this: Being in jail and being in prison, I came across some of the most intelligent, brilliant, and talented people that I would ever meet. I've seen individuals take a potato chip bag and turn it into the most beautiful picture frame. I've seen individuals take the state soap that's provided for free and turn them into the most beautiful sculptures that would make Michelangelo look like a kindergartner made it. At the age of 21, I was in a maximum-security prison called Elmira Correctional Facility. I just came out of the weight shack from working out, and I saw an older gentleman that I knew standing in the middle of the yard just looking up at the sky. Mind you, this older gentlemen was serving a 33-and-a-third-to-life sentence in which he already had served 20 years of that sentence. So I walk up to him and I said, ""O.G., what's going on, man, you good?"" He looked at me, and he said, ""Yeah, I'm good, young blood."" I'm like, ""So what are you looking up at the sky for, man? What's so fascinating up there?"" He said, ""You look up and you tell me what you see."" ""Clouds."" (Laughter) He said, ""All right. What else do you see?"" At that time, it was a plane passing by. I said, ""All right, I see an airplane."" He said, ""Exactly, and what's  on that airplane?"" ""People."" ""Exactly. Now where's that plane and those people going?"" ""I don't know. You know? Please let me know if you do. Then let me get some lottery numbers."" He said, ""You're missing the big picture, young blood. That plane with those people is going somewhere, while we're here stuck. The big picture is this: That plane with those people going somewhere, that's life passing us by while we behind these walls, stuck."" Ever since that day, that sparked something in my mind and made me know I had to make a change. Growing up, I was always a good, smart kid. Some people would say I was a little too smart for my own good. I had dreams of becoming an architect or an archaeologist. Currently, I'm working at the Fortune Society, which is a reentry program, and I work with people as a case manager that are at high risk for recidivism. So I connect them with the services that they need once they're released from jail and prison so they can make a positive transition back into society. If I was to see my 15-year-old self today, I would sit down and talk to him and try to educate him and I would let him know, ""Listen, this is me. I'm you. This is us. We are one. Everything that you're about to do, I know what you're gonna do before you do it because I already did it, and I would encourage him not to hang out with x, y and z people. I would tell him not to be in such-and-such place. I would tell him, keep your behind in school, man, because that's where you need to be, because that's what's going to get you somewhere in life. This is the message that we should be sharing with our young men and young women. We shouldn't be treating them as adults and putting them in cultures of violence that are nearly impossible for them to escape. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們必須改變我們的拘留所和監獄裡的文化，尤其是年輕囚犯的監獄。美國僅有兩個州自動將16歲和17歲的年輕人以成年人逮捕和審判，而紐約就是其中之一。這個暴力的文化將這些年輕人放入一個惡劣的環境裡，而懲教人員幾乎允許任何事發生。這些年輕人幾乎無法切實提升他們的才華或真正改過自新。在我們能夠將刑事責任的年齡提高到18歲以前，我們必須著力於改變這些年輕人的日常生活。 我是過來人。在我18歲以前，我在賴克斯島監獄待了大約400天。此外我大約300天被關禁閉。我可以告訴你們：在你的牢房門內整日盡全力尖叫，或者對著窗戶外大聲嘶喊，你只是累了自己。因為在那裡面你無事可做，你開始在牢房內來回走，你開始自言自語，你的念頭開始變得瘋狂，接著你的念頭成為你自己最大的敵人。監獄本來應該是要改造一個人，而不是讓他或她變成更憤怒，更挫折，和覺得沒有希望。因為沒有為這些年輕人設計的出獄計劃，他們基本上赤手空拳回到社會上。他們很快就重踏覆轍。 這些是從矯正人員開始。許多人很容易就認為矯正人員是好人，而囚犯是壞人，或者反過來。其實不是這麼簡單。你知道，這些矯正人員也是一般的普通人。他們與他們「服務」的那些人是同一地方出身的。他們就是一般的普通人。他們不是機器人，也沒有特殊的地方。他們做的事和社會其他人一樣。男性矯正人員喜歡與女性矯正人員說話和調情。他們彼此玩和高中生一樣的遊戲。他們彼此勾心鬥角。而女性矯正人員彼此嚼舌根。 我曾與許多的矯正人員相處了許多時間。我來談談很特別的一位，名字是曼若。有一天，他把我拉到A門和B門之間那是南北兩個住在單位的分界處。他拉我去那裡因為我和另一個和我同住宅單位的另一個年輕人打架。他覺得，因為那裡有一位女性矯正人員，我侵犯了他的值班。他打了我的胸口。我被他打得七暈八素。我沒有衝動，我沒有馬上反應因為我知道這是他們的地方。我絕對無法贏。只要他拉他的傳呼機其他警衛就馬上會過來。所以我只是瞪著他我猜他看到我的憤怒和挫折在燃燒，他就說，「你的眼神會讓你吃大虧，因為你看起來想要打架。」他開始解開他的制服腰帶，他脫下他的襯衫和徽章，然後他說，「我們來打吧！」 我就問他，「你會壓著嗎？」那是我們在賴克斯島監獄常用的說法，意思是這件事你不會告訴任何人，你也不會打報告。他說，「對，我會壓著。那你也會壓著嗎？」我沒回答。我就揮拳打了他的臉，我們就開始在那裡打了一架。 快結束時，他將我按向牆壁，我們仍在扭打時，他問我，「你還好吧？」好像他認為他贏了。但我心裡知道我贏了他，我就很臭屁地回答，「喔，我還好，你呢？」他說，「是啊，我還好，我還好。」我們放開彼此，他握我的手，說他尊敬我，給我一支香菸，讓我走。 你相信嗎？在賴克斯島監獄，你會碰到一些矯正人員要和你一對一對打。他們覺得他們了解你的感受。他們覺得我要為你設身處地。因為你們通常就是這樣處理糾紛，我們也可以這樣解決。我展現了男子大丈夫的氣魄，你也展現了男子大丈夫的氣魄。就是如此。一些矯正人員覺得他們和我們坐牢。所以他們才有那樣的心理和態度，也以那樣的理念做事。有一些情況下，我們與矯正人員同甘共苦。然而，有關機關應該對這些矯正人員給予如何正確處理青少年的訓練，以及給予他們如何處理心理健康的正確訓練。這些矯正人員對這些年輕人的生命，在他們的案子尚未得到懲處的決定前的那段時間起很大的作用。所以我們為什麼不對這些年輕人在那段時間好好輔導？何不給他們一些得以創造改變的想法，使他們在重回社會時可以做出正面的行為？ 另一件可以在監獄幫助我們少年人的是比較好的方案。當我在賴克斯島監獄的時候，最大的懲罰是關禁閉。單獨禁閉本來是為了降伏一個人的身、心以及情緒而設計。為了那樣的目的而設計。美國總檢察長最近發佈一個報告說明他們在紐約州將要禁止對於青年人單獨監禁。說明他們在紐約州將要禁止對於青年人單獨監禁。 當我在被關禁閉時唯一讓我維持理智的是閱讀。我嘗試儘可能地教育我自己。我閱讀我能夠拿到任何書。除此以外，我也寫歌和短篇小說。我認為可以幫助我們的年輕人的是提供一些有關藝術治療的方案給那些喜歡畫畫也有天分的孩子們。對於那些對音樂有興趣的孩子們呢？何不提供他們一些學習寫歌和創作音樂的方案呢？那是我的想法。 當青少年來到賴克斯島監獄，他們被安排在C74, RNDC 那棟建築物。那裡被暱稱為「角鬥士學校」。因為一個青少年從他們所混的街道來到這裡，認為自己很厲害。但是他的周圍的其他年輕人也是從各行各業來的，每個人都認為自己很厲害。這些年輕人各不相讓覺得我必須證明我和你們一樣厲害，或者我比你、你和你更厲害。我們彼此坦誠：那個文化對我們的年輕人非常危險且具傷害性。我們必須幫助機構和這些青年了解他們不要再重複以前在街道混的生活方式。他們是可以改變的。 當我在監獄時，非常悲哀的是我經常聽到混混討論他們從監獄出去後，他們回到所混的街道時要做的罪行。那些對話大都像這樣：「哦，當我出去後，我兄弟有這樣或那樣的關係。」或者，「我那裡的人有關係可以拿到很低的價格。我們互相交流訊息吧。」或者，「當我們出去時，我們要好好幹一票。」我那時聽到這些對話時，我心想，「哇，這些人真的在討論他們出去時要犯的罪。」我就為他們取了一個名字：我稱之為「快速回監牢的計畫」。因為，老實說，他們可以逍遙法外多久？那是一個退休計畫嗎？其中有退休金嗎？例如401(k)或403(b)嗎?你會有健康和牙齒保險嗎？（笑聲） 但是我告訴你們：在拘留所或在監獄裡，我曾遇見一些我所認識的人當中最聰明、才華橫溢，以及很有天分的人。我看過一些人將一個馬鈴薯片的袋子做成一個非常美麗的鏡框。我看過另一些人將免費提供的肥皂雕成非常優美的雕刻品。相比之下，米開蘭基羅的作品看起來像是幼稚園兒童的作品。 在我21歲時，我被關在一所戒備最森嚴的監獄。那個監獄叫做埃爾邁拉懲教監獄。有一次，我剛從運動中心做完舉重出來，我看到一位認識的老先生站在庭院中間向上望著天空。你要知道，這位老先生正在服33又3分之一年到無期徒刑。那時他已經服了20年的刑期。 我走向他，我說，「O.G., 有什麼事嗎，你還好吧？」 他看著我，然後會說，「是啊，我很好，年輕人。」 我說，「老兄。你在看天空什麼呢？上面有什麼迷人的東西嗎？」 他說，「你自己看看，再告訴我你看到什麼。」 「有雲。」（笑聲） 他說，「好。還有呢？」那時，有一架飛機飛過。 我說，「好啊！我看到一架飛機。」 他說，「對，飛機有什麼？」（我說）「有人」（他說）「沒錯。那架飛機和那些人要去那裡？」 （我說）「我不知道。你知道嗎？如果你知道，請告訴我。然後請你也給我樂透的號碼。」 他說，「年輕人，你不知道重點。那架飛機和那些人正要去某個地方，而我們卡住在這裡。重點是：那架飛機和那些人要去某個地方，那就是我們卡在監獄裡所錯過的生命。」 從那天開始，那天引發了我的心中某處，我知道我必須改變。在成長過程中，我一直是一個聰明的好孩子。有些人會說我聰明過頭了。我夢想成為建築師或考古學家。 現在，我在幸運協會任職，那是一個協助服刑者重新回到社會的計畫。我是幫助有高機率成為累犯的專案經理。我在他們出獄時，幫他們聯繫他們所需的服務我在他們出獄時，幫他們聯繫他們所需的服務以使他們能順利的重新融入社會。如果我今天看著15歲時候的我，我會坐下來，嘗試開導和教育他。我會讓他知道，「聽著，這是我，我就是你。這是我們。我們是一體的。」你將要做的任何事，我在你要做之前就知道。因為我以前曾經做過，我會勸他不要和那幾個人在一起。我會告訴他不要去那些地方。我會勸他務必要上學，因為那是你應該做的，因為那才能讓你未來生命有發展。這就是我們應該要與我們年輕的男生和女生分享的訊息。這就是我們應該要與我們年輕的男生和女生分享的訊息。我們不應將他們視為成年人放他們在暴力的文化裡。否則他們幾乎永遠無法逃離。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
