Talk	en	zh-tw
israel_and_iran_a_love_story	"On March 14, this year, I posted this poster on Facebook. This is an image of me and my daughter holding the Israeli flag. I will try to explain to you about the context of why and when I posted. A few days ago, I was sitting waiting on the line at the grocery store, and the owner and one of the clients were talking to each other, and the owner was explaining to the client that we're going to get 10,000 missiles on Israel. And the client was saying, no, it's 10,000 a day. (Laughter) (""10,000 missiles"") This is the context. This is where we are now in Israel. We have this war with Iran coming for 10 years now, and we have people, you know, afraid. It's like every year it's the last minute that we can do something about the war with Iran. It's like, if we don't act now, it's too late forever, for 10 years now. So at some point it became, you know, to me, I'm a graphic designer, so I made posters about it and I posted the one I just showed you before. Most of the time, I make posters, I post them on Facebook, my friends like it, don't like it, most of the time don't like it, don't share it, don't nothing, and it's another day. So I went to sleep, and that was it for me. And later on in the night, I woke up because I'm always waking up in the night, and I went by the computer and I see all these red dots, you know, on Facebook, which I've never seen before. (Laughter) And I was like, ""What's going on?"" So I come to the computer and I start looking on, and suddenly I see many people talking to me, most of them I don't know, and a few of them from Iran, which is — What? Because you have to understand, in Israel we don't talk with people from Iran. We don't know people from Iran. It's like, on Facebook, you have friends only from — it's like your neighbors are your friends on Facebook. And now people from Iran are talking to me. So I start answering this girl, and she's telling me she saw the poster and she asked her family to come, because they don't have a computer, she asked her family to come to see the poster, and they're all sitting in the living room crying. So I'm like, whoa. I ask my wife to come, and I tell her, you have to see that. People are crying, and she came, she read the text, and she started to cry. And everybody's crying now. (Laughter) So I don't know what to do, so my first reflex, as a graphic designer, is, you know, to show everybody what I'd just seen, and people started to see them and to share them, and that's how it started. The day after, when really it became a lot of talking, I said to myself, and my wife said to me, I also want a poster, so this is her. (Laughter) Because it's working, put me in a poster now. But more seriously, I was like, okay, these ones work, but it's not just about me, it's about people from Israel who want to say something. So I'm going to shoot all the people I know, if they want, and I'm going to put them in a poster and I'm going to share them. So I went to my neighbors and friends and students and I just asked them, give me a picture, I will make you a poster. And that's how it started. And that's how, really, it's unleashed, because suddenly people from Facebook, friends and others, just understand that they can be part of it. It's not just one dude making one poster, it's — we can be part of it, so they start sending me pictures and ask me, ""Make me a poster. Post it. Tell the Iranians we from Israel love you too."" It became, you know, at some point it was really, really intense. I mean, so many pictures, so I asked friends to come, graphic designers most of them, to make posters with me, because I didn't have the time. It was a huge amount of pictures. So for a few days, that's how my living room was. And we received Israeli posters, Israeli images, but also lots of comments, lots of messages from Iran. And we took these messages and we made posters out of it, because I know people: They don't read, they see images. If it's an image, they may read it. So here are a few of them. (""You are my first Israelian friend. I wish we both get rid of our idiot politicians, anyway nice to see you!"") (""I love that blue. I love that star. I love that flag."") This one is really moving for me because it's the story of a girl who has been raised in Iran to walk on an Israeli flag to enter her school every morning, and now that she sees the posters that we're sending, she starts — she said that she changed her mind, and now she loves that blue, she loves that star, and she loves that flag, talking about the Israeli flag, and she wished that we'd meet and come to visit one another, and just a few days after I posted the first poster. The day after, Iranians started to respond with their own posters. They have graphic designers. What? (Laughter) Crazy, crazy. So you can see they are still shy, they don't want to show their faces, but they want to spread the message. They want to respond. They want to say the same thing. So. And now it's communication. It's a two-way story. It's Israelis and Iranians sending the same message, one to each other. (""My Israeli Friends. I don't hate you. I don't want War."") This never happened before, and this is two people supposed to be enemies, we're on the verge of a war, and suddenly people on Facebook are starting to say, ""I like this guy. I love those guys."" And it became really big at some point. And then it became news. Because when you're seeing the Middle East, you see only the bad news. And suddenly, there is something that was happening that was good news. So the guys on the news, they say, ""Okay, let's talk about this."" And they just came, and it was so much, I remember one day, Michal, she was talking with the journalist, and she was asking him, ""Who's gonna see the show?""And he said, ""Everybody."" So she said, ""Everybody in Palestine, in where? Israel? Who is everybody?""""Everybody."" They said, ""Syria?"" ""Syria."" ""Lebanon?""""Lebanon."" At some point, he just said, ""40 million people are going to see you today. It's everybody."" The Chinese. And we were just at the beginning of the story. Something crazy also happened. Every time a country started talking about it, like Germany, America, wherever, a page on Facebook popped up with the same logo with the same stories, so at the beginning we had ""Iran-Loves-Israel,"" which is an Iranian sitting in Tehran, saying, ""Okay, Israel loves Iran? I give you Iran-Loves-Israel."" You have Palestine-Loves-Israel. You have Lebanon that just — a few days ago. And this whole list of pages on Facebook dedicated to the same message, to people sending their love, one to each other. The moment I really understood that something was happening, a friend of mine told me, ""Google the word 'Israel.'"" And those were the first images on those days that popped up from Google when you were typing, ""Israel"" or ""Iran."" We really changed how people see the Middle East. Because you're not in the Middle East. You're somewhere over there, and then you want to see the Middle East, so you go on Google and you say, ""Israel,"" and they give you the bad stuff. And for a few days you got those images. Today the Israel-Loves-Iran page is this number, 80,831, and two million people last week went on the page and shared, liked, I don't know, commented on one of the photos. So for five months now, that's what we are doing, me, Michal, a few of my friends, are just making images. We're showing a new reality by just making images because that's how the world perceives us. They see images of us, and they see bad images. So we're working on making good images. End of story. Look at this one. This is the Iran-Loves-Israel page. This is not the Israel-Loves-Iran. This is not my page. This is a guy in Tehran on the day of remembrance of the Israeli fallen soldier putting an image of an Israeli soldier on his page. This is the enemy. What? (""Our heartfelt condolences to the families who lost their dearests in terror attack in Bulgaria"") And it's going both ways. It's like, we are showing respect, one to each other. And we're understanding. And you show compassion. And you become friends. And at some point, you become friends on Facebook, and you become friends in life. You can go and travel and meet people. And I was in Munich a few weeks ago. I went there to open an exposition about Iran and I met there with people from the page that told me, ""Okay, you're going to be in Europe, I'm coming. I'm coming from France, from Holland, from Germany,"" of course, and from Israel people came, and we just met there for the first time in real life. I met with people that are supposed to be my enemies for the first time. And we just shake hands, and have a coffee and a nice discussion, and we talk about food and basketball. And that was the end of it. Remember that image from the beginning? At some point we met in real life, and we became friends. And it goes the other way around. Some girl that we met on Facebook never been in Israel, born and raised in Iran, lives in Germany, afraid of Israelis because of what she knows about us, decides after a few months of talking on the Internet with some Israelis to come to Israel, and she gets on the plane and arrives at Ben Gurion and says, ""Okay, not that big a deal."" So a few weeks ago, the stress is getting higher, so we start this new campaign called ""Not ready to die in your war."" I mean, it's plus/minus the same message, but we wanted really to add some aggressivity to it. And again, something amazing happened, something that we didn't have on the first wave of the campaign. Now people from Iran, the same ones who were shy at the first campaign and just sent, you know, their foot and half their faces, now they're sending their faces, and they're saying, ""Okay, no problem, we're into it. We are with you."" Just read where those guys are from. And for every guy from Israel, you've got someone from Iran. Just people sending their pictures. Crazy, yes? So — (Applause) So you may ask yourself, who is this dude? My name is Ronny Edry, and I'm 41, I'm an Israeli, I'm a father of two, I'm a husband, and I'm a graphic designer. I'm teaching graphic design. And I'm not that naive, because a lot of the time I've been asked, many times I've been asked, ""Yeah, but, this is really naive, sending flowers over, I mean — "" I was in the army. I was in the paratroopers for three years, and I know how it looks from the ground. I know how it can look really bad. So to me, this is the courageous thing to do, to try to reach the other side before it's too late, because when it's going to be too late, it's going to be too late. And sometimes war is inevitable, sometimes, but maybe [with] effort, we can avoid it. Maybe as people, because especially in Israel, we're in a democracy. We have the freedom of speech, and maybe that little thing can change something. And really, we can be our own ambassadors. We can just send a message and hope for the best. So I want to ask Michal, my wife, to come with me on the stage just to make with you one image, because it's all about images. And maybe that image will help us change something. Just raise that. Exactly. And I'm just going to take a picture of it, and I'm just going to post it on Facebook with kind of ""Israelis for peace"" or something. Oh my God. Don't cry. Thank you guys. (Applause)"	今年的3月14日我在臉書上貼了一張海報這是我和女兒的合照她手裡拿著以色列的國旗稍後我會解釋為什麼要貼有這些文字的海報以及我在什麼時候貼的 幾天前我坐在雜貨店前排隊老闆和一位客人正在對話老闆告訴客人說：「我們會在以色列投下一萬顆飛彈。」然後客人說：「不對，是一天一萬顆。」（笑聲） （一萬顆飛彈）這是文字內容，這是我們所在的以色列我們和伊朗的戰爭將邁入第十年我們的人民感到害怕每一年都像是我們可以對以伊戰爭做點什麼的最後一刻就像是如果我們現在不做一切就會太遲了到現在已經十年了 有時候就會變成…你知道，對我來說我是平面設計師，所以我做了相關的海報就像我剛剛給你看的那種，然後把它貼出來通常我把設計好的海報貼在臉書上我的朋友們有人會喜歡，也有人會不喜歡通常他們不喜歡就不會分享出去不做任何動作然後就風平浪靜地過了一天所以我通常會上床去睡覺當天入夜後我起床我通常都是晚上才起床然後我走到電腦旁，然後我看到這些紅點你知道我可從來沒有在臉書上看過這些（笑聲）所以我很疑惑：「是發生什麼事了？」所以我仔細看了電腦突然發現有很多人在和我對話大部份是我不認識的人有一些是伊朗人那是－－什麼？你們要了解在以色列我們不和伊朗人說話我們不認識從伊朗來的人就好像是臉書上你的鄰居就是你的臉書上的朋友而現在來自伊朗的人在跟我說話 所以我開始回應這位女孩她告訴我，她看到海報後請她的家人們過來因為他們沒有電腦所以她請她的家人們來看海報然後大家就坐在客廳裡哭 所以我「哇嗚！」我請我太太過來然後告訴她一定要來看這個有很多人哭了，然後她走過來，讀了上面的文字然後也開始哭了現在每個人都哭了（笑聲） 我不知道該怎麼辦，我的第一個反應是身為平面設計者應該就是要這麼做展示圖片給大家看人們看了之後就分享，事情就該是這樣開始那天之後，這件事真的開始變成人們的話題我告訴我自己，我太太也告訴我我也想要做一張圖所以我也幫她做了一張（笑聲）因為很有成效，讓我成為海報裡的主角 但是嚴肅一點來看這不只是一張作品，不只是跟我有關是關於來自以色列的人們想要說些什麼所以我打算要為我的朋友們拍照如果他們願意的話然後我會幫他們做張海報，分享出去 因此我去找我的鄰居、朋友和學生我只是跟他們說給我一張照片，然後我幫你做一張海報事情就這樣開始了然後就這樣爆發了因為人們從臉書、朋友開始了解他們也可以成為其中的一份子那不只是一個老兄做了一張海報而是－－我們可以參與其中所以有很多人開始寄照片給我然後請我做一張海報、分享出去告訴伊朗人，我來自以色列，我也愛你們在某個時間點，這件事變得非常踴躍我的意思是，有這麼多照片所以我請朋友們一起來幫忙，大部份也是設計師來幫我做海報，因為我沒有時間做這麼多那可是很多很多的照片有幾天，我的客廳變成這樣 我們收到以色列人的海報、照片以及很多來自伊朗的評論和訊息我們接收了訊息，然後以此做成海報因為我知道人們不看字，只看圖片如果那是一張圖，他們可能會看 這是其中的幾張 （「你是我第一位以色列籍的朋友，我希望我們都可以廢掉那些愚蠢政客。總而言之，很高興見到你！」） （「我喜歡那個藍色，那顆星星，還有那面國旗。」這張深深感動了我這是一位在伊朗長大的女孩她每天早上要踩過以色列國旗才能進入校門她看到我們最近發出的海報她說她改變了她的心意現在她喜歡藍色、喜歡那顆星星也愛那面旗子，談到以色列國旗她希望我們未來有機會可以拜訪彼此這件事發生在我貼第一張海報之後的幾天而已 那天之後伊朗人開始用他們的海報來回應他們也有平面設計師什麼？（笑聲）太瘋狂了，太瘋狂了你可以看到他們依然很害羞不願意讓人看到他們的臉不過他們也想要分享訊息他們想要回應，想要做同樣的事情因此，現在變成了交流是雙向的故事是以色列人和伊朗人互相傳遞同樣的訊息 （「我的以色列籍朋友，我不討厭你，我不想要戰爭。」） 這種事以前從來沒有發生過本來大家以為這兩方的人會是敵人我們身處戰爭邊緣忽然之間人們開始在臉書上說「我喜歡這個人，我喜歡那些人。」某個時刻之後，這真的是件大事 然後新聞也開始報導了通常你看到中東的新聞，只會有壞消息一夕之間，有件好事發生了所以這些人上了新聞他們說：「好吧，讓我們談談這件事。」然後他們來了，而且好多人 我記得有一天米歇爾和記者討論時她問：「誰會看這個節目？」他說：「每個人都會看。」 她說：「巴勒斯坦的每個人，是哪裡？以色列？誰是每個人？」「就是所有的人。」他們說 「敘利亞？」「敘利亞。」 「黎巴嫩？」「黎巴嫩。」然後他說：「今天有四千萬人會看到你，是每個人。」也包括了中國人我們現在還只是在故事的開頭而已 某件瘋狂的事情發生了每次只要有一個國家開始討論這件事像是德國、美國，或是其它國家臉書上就會有一個頁面出現相同的圖片和故事在一開始時我們用了「伊朗愛以色列」這是一個伊朗人坐在德黑蘭說：「以色列愛伊朗？我給你伊朗愛以色列。」有巴勒斯坦愛以色列幾天前也有黎巴嫩這是臉書上投入這個活動的所有明細人們將他們的愛傳遞給彼此 在我真的了解大事發生了的那個時候我的朋友告訴我「上網搜尋『以色列』。」這是Google那幾天最先跳出來的頁面當你輸入「以色列」或「伊朗」時，就會跳出來的頁面我們真的改變人們對中東的看法因為你不在中東你在中東以外的某個地方因為你想看看中東，所以你上網搜尋了「以色列」然後他們給了你一堆爛帳但是有幾天你會看到這些相片今天以色列愛伊朗的頁面有80831人次瀏覽，上個星期有兩百萬人次造訪這個頁面然後分享、按讚或是留言在其中一張圖片下面 至今五個月了我、米歇爾和我的一些朋友只是做了幾張圖片就改變了大家的觀感因為這就是人們如何看待我們人們看著我們的照片，通常會看到不好的影像所以我們想要創造新的印象改變人們的想法，終結不好的聯想 看看這張這是伊朗愛以色列專頁這不是以色列愛伊朗專頁這不是我的頁面這是一名德黑蘭人在以色列士兵戰亡緬懷紀念日時放了一張以色列士兵的照片在他的專頁上這是敵軍什麼？ （「謹向在保加利亞失去摯愛家屬的人們致上由衷的慰問」） 這包含了兩種意義一是我們向彼此致敬我們理解，你也表達了同情然後我們就變成了朋友在某一刻，你變成臉書上的朋友然後你也成了我現實生活中的朋友你可以揹起行囊去探訪這些人幾個星期前我去了慕尼黑我去那邊召開一個關於伊朗的博覽會然後我在那邊見了一些在網路上留言的人他們說：「你要去歐洲的話我也要去，我從法國、荷蘭、德國去。」當然也有從以色列來的朋友那是我們在現實生活中的首次見面我見了原本應該要是敵人的人們這是第一次我們只是握握手然後喝杯咖啡、有一段良好的談話我們還聊了食物和籃球然後就結束了記得一開始的圖片嗎？我們在現實生活中見面後，我們就成了朋友 事情有了不同的發展有些我在臉書上碰到的女孩從沒去過以色列，在伊朗出生、長大住在德國，害怕以色列人因為她過去對我們的印象是不好的在網路上和一些以色列人聊過幾個月後她決定要到以色列她搭上飛機抵達本古里安她說：「噢，這不是什麼大不了的事。」 幾個星期前，她的壓力變很大因此我們展開了一個新的活動「還沒準備好要死在你的戰爭」這個訊息有加分和減分的作用我們想要的是去增加她來的信心再一次，奇妙的事情發生了出現了在第一波活動中沒有的情況在前次活動中很害羞的伊朗人他們寄的照片只露出腳和一半的臉現在他們寄出了有完整臉的照片他們說：「沒問題，我們與你同在。」你看這些人是從哪裡來的對每個以色列人來說你有伊朗人的照應了這是一些人寄來的照片很瘋狂吧！ 因此（鼓掌） 你可能會自問，這個人是誰呀？ 我的名字是朗尼．艾德瑞，41歲，以色列人我是兩個孩子的爸，也是丈夫我是平面設計師，也教平面設計我並不天真我很常被問到「這真是太天真了，送花去，我是說…」 我曾當過三年傘兵我知道那從地面看起來是什麼樣子我知道那看起來感覺很可怕所以對我來說，這是一件需要鼓起勇氣做的事在還來得及的時候去做因為當一切都太遲了的時候，就太遲了有時候戰爭是不可避免的有時候也許我們努力一點，就可以避免它發生也許對人們來說，特別是在以色列我們身在民主國度，我們有言論的自由也許小小的動作可以造成很大的改變我們可以成為自己的大使我們可以傳遞訊息，並且期待最好的結果 所以我想要邀請我太太米歇爾幫我在台上為你們照張相因為一切都由照片而起也許照片會幫我們做出改變只要你舉起這張紙我來拍張照然後貼在臉書上某個頁面像是「以色列人要和平」之類的 我的天不要哭 謝謝大家（鼓掌）
