Talk	en	zh-tw
iwan_baan_ingenious_homes_in_unexpected_places	"Throughout my career, I've been fortunate enough to work with many of the great international architects, documenting their work and observing how their designs have the capacity to influence the cities in which they sit. I think of new cities like Dubai or ancient cities like Rome with Zaha Hadid's incredible MAXXI museum, or like right here in New York with the High Line, a city which has been so much influenced by the development of this. But what I find really fascinating is what happens when architects and planners leave and these places become appropriated by people, like here in Chandigarh, India, the city which has been completely designed by the architect Le Corbusier. Now 60 years later, the city has been taken over by people in very different ways from whatever perhaps intended for, like here, where you have the people sitting in the windows of the assembly hall. But over the course of several years, I've been documenting Rem Koolhaas's CCTV building in Beijing and the olympic stadium in the same city by the architects Herzog and de Meuron. At these large-scale construction sites in China, you see a sort of makeshift camp where workers live during the entire building process. As the length of the construction takes years, workers end up forming a rather rough-and-ready informal city, making for quite a juxtaposition against the sophisticated structures that they're building. Over the past seven years, I've been following my fascination with the built environment, and for those of you who know me, you would say that this obsession has led me to live out of a suitcase 365 days a year. Being constantly on the move means that sometimes I am able to catch life's most unpredictable moments, like here in New York the day after the Sandy storm hit the city. Just over three years ago, I was for the first time in Caracas, Venezuela, and while flying over the city, I was just amazed by the extent to which the slums reach into every corner of the city, a place where nearly 70 percent of the population lives in slums, draped literally all over the mountains. During a conversation with local architects Urban-Think Tank, I learned about the Torre David, a 45-story office building which sits right in the center of Caracas. The building was under construction until the collapse of the Venezuelan economy and the death of the developer in the early '90s. About eight years ago, people started moving into the abandoned tower and began to build their homes right in between every column of this unfinished tower. There's only one little entrance to the entire building, and the 3,000 residents come in and out through that single door. Together, the inhabitants created public spaces and designed them to feel more like a home and less like an unfinished tower. In the lobby, they painted the walls and planted trees. They also made a basketball court. But when you look up closely, you see massive holes where elevators and services would have run through. Within the tower, people have come up with all sorts of solutions in response to the various needs which arise from living in an unfinished tower. With no elevators, the tower is like a 45-story walkup. Designed in very specific ways by this group of people who haven't had any education in architecture or design. And with each inhabitant finding their own unique way of coming by, this tower becomes like a living city, a place which is alive with micro-economies and small businesses. The inventive inhabitants, for instance, find opportunities in the most unexpected cases, like the adjacent parking garage, which has been reclaimed as a taxi route to shuttle the inhabitants up through the ramps in order to shorten the hike up to the apartments. A walk through the tower reveals how residents have figured out how to create walls, how to make an air flow, how to create transparency, circulation throughout the tower, essentially creating a home that's completely adapted to the conditions of the site. When a new inhabitant moves into the tower, they already have a roof over their head, so they just typically mark their space with a few curtains or sheets. Slowly, from found materials, walls rise, and people create a space out of any found objects or materials. It's remarkable to see the design decisions that they're making, like when everything is made out of red bricks, some residents will cover that red brick with another layer of red brick-patterned wallpaper just to make it a kind of clean finish. The inhabitants literally built up these homes with their own hands, and this labor of love instills a great sense of pride in many families living in this tower. They typically make the best out of their conditions, and try to make their spaces look nice and homey, or at least up until as far as they can reach. Throughout the tower, you come across all kinds of services, like the barber, small factories, and every floor has a little grocery store or shop. And you even find a church. And on the 30th floor, there is a gym where all the weights and barbells are made out of the leftover pulleys from the elevators which were never installed. From the outside, behind this always-changing facade, you see how the fixed concrete beams provide a framework for the inhabitants to create their homes in an organic, intuitive way that responds directly to their needs. Let's go now to Africa, to Nigeria, to a community called Makoko, a slum where 150,000 people live just meters above the Lagos Lagoon. While it may appear to be a completely chaotic place, when you see it from above, there seems to be a whole grid of waterways and canals connecting each and every home. From the main dock, people board long wooden canoes which carry them out to their various homes and shops located in the expansive area. When out on the water, it's clear that life has been completely adapted to this very specific way of living. Even the canoes become variety stores where ladies paddle from house to house, selling anything from toothpaste to fresh fruits. Behind every window and door frame, you'll see a small child peering back at you, and while Makoko seems to be packed with people, what's more shocking is actually the amount of children pouring out of every building. The population growth in Nigeria, and especially in these areas like Makoko, are painful reminders of how out of control things really are. In Makoko, very few systems and infrastructures exist. Electricity is rigged and freshest water comes from self-built wells throughout the area. This entire economic model is designed to meet a specific way of living on the water, so fishing and boat-making are common professions. You'll have a set of entrepreneurs who have set up businesses throughout the area, like barbershops, CD and DVD stores, movie theaters, tailors, everything is there. There is even a photo studio where you see the sort of aspiration to live in a real house or to be associated with a faraway place, like that hotel in Sweden. On this particular evening, I came across this live band dressed to the T in their coordinating outfits. They were floating through the canals in a large canoe with a fitted-out generator for all of the community to enjoy. By nightfall, the area becomes almost pitch black, save for a small lightbulb or a fire. What originally brought me to Makoko was this project from a friend of mine, Kunlé Adeyemi, who recently finished building this three-story floating school for the kids in Makoko. With this entire village existing on the water, public space is very limited, so now that the school is finished, the ground floor is a playground for the kids, but when classes are out, the platform is just like a town square, where the fishermen mend their nets and floating shopkeepers dock their boats. Another place I'd like to share with you is the Zabbaleen in Cairo. They're descendants of farmers who began migrating from the upper Egypt in the '40s, and today they make their living by collecting and recycling waste from homes from all over Cairo. For years, the Zabbaleen would live in makeshift villages where they would move around trying to avoid the local authorities, but in the early 1980s, they settled on the Mokattam rocks just at the eastern edge of the city. Today, they live in this area, approximately 50,000 to 70,000 people, who live in this community of self-built multi-story houses where up to three generations live in one structure. While these apartments that they built for themselves appear to lack any planning or formal grid, each family specializing in a certain form of recycling means that the ground floor of each apartment is reserved for garbage-related activities and the upper floor is dedicated to living space. I find it incredible to see how these piles and piles of garbage are invisible to the people who live there, like this very distinguished man who is posing while all this garbage is sort of streaming out behind him, or like these two young men who are sitting and chatting amongst these tons of garbage. While to most of us, living amongst these piles and piles of garbage may seem totally uninhabitable, to those in the Zabbaleen, this is just a different type of normal. In all these places I've talked about today, what I do find fascinating is that there's really no such thing as normal, and it proves that people are able to adapt to any kind of situation. Throughout the day, it's quite common to come across a small party taking place in the streets, just like this engagement party. In this tradition, the bride-to-be displays all of their belongings, which they soon bring to their new husband. A gathering like this one offers such a juxtaposition where all the new stuff is displayed and all the garbage is used as props to display all their new home accessories. Like Makoko and the Torre David, throughout the Zabbaleen you'll find all the same facilities as in any typical neighborhood. There are the retail shops, the cafes and the restaurants, and the community is this community of Coptic Christians, so you'll also find a church, along with the scores of religious iconographies throughout the area, and also all the everyday services like the electronic repair shops, the barbers, everything. Visiting the homes of the Zabbaleen is also full of surprises. While from the outside, these homes look like any other informal structure in the city, when you step inside, you are met with all manner of design decisions and interior decoration. Despite having limited access to space and money, the homes in the area are designed with care and detail. Every apartment is unique, and this individuality tells a story about each family's circumstances and values. Many of these people take their homes and interior spaces very seriously, putting a lot of work and care into the details. The shared spaces are also treated in the same manner, where walls are decorated in faux marble patterns. But despite this elaborate decor, sometimes these apartments are used in very unexpected ways, like this home which caught my attention while all the mud and the grass was literally seeping out under the front door. When I was let in, it appeared that this fifth-floor apartment was being transformed into a complete animal farm, where six or seven cows stood grazing in what otherwise would be the living room. But then in the apartment across the hall from this cow shed lives a newly married couple in what locals describe as one of the nicest apartments in the area. The attention to this detail astonished me, and as the owner of the home so proudly led me around this apartment, from floor to ceiling, every part was decorated. But if it weren't for the strangely familiar stomach-churning odor that constantly passes through the apartment, it would be easy to forget that you are standing next to a cow shed and on top of a landfill. What moved me the most was that despite these seemingly inhospitable conditions, I was welcomed with open arms into a home that was made with love, care, and unreserved passion. Let's move across the map to China, to an area called Shanxi, Henan and Gansu. In a region famous for the soft, porous Loess Plateau soil, there lived until recently an estimated 40 million people in these houses underground. These dwellings are called the yaodongs. Through this architecture by subtraction, these yaodongs are built literally inside of the soil. In these villages, you see an entirely altered landscape, and hidden behind these mounds of dirt are these square, rectangular houses which sit seven meters below the ground. When I asked people why they were digging their houses from the ground, they simply replied that they are poor wheat and apple farmers who didn't have the money to buy materials, and this digging out was their most logical form of living. From Makoko to Zabbaleen, these communities have approached the tasks of planning, design and management of their communities and neighborhoods in ways that respond specifically to their environment and circumstances. Created by these very people who live, work and play in these particular spaces, these neighborhoods are intuitively designed to make the most of their circumstances. In most of these places, the government is completely absent, leaving inhabitants with no choice but to reappropriate found materials, and while these communities are highly disadvantaged, they do present examples of brilliant forms of ingenuity, and prove that indeed we have the ability to adapt to all manner of circumstances. What makes places like the Torre David particularly remarkable is this sort of skeleton framework where people can have a foundation where they can tap into. Now imagine what these already ingenious communities could create themselves, and how highly particular their solutions would be, if they were given the basic infrastructures that they could tap into. Today, you see these large residential development projects which offer cookie-cutter housing solutions to massive amounts of people. From China to Brazil, these projects attempt to provide as many houses as possible, but they're completely generic and simply do not work as an answer to the individual needs of the people. I would like to end with a quote from a friend of mine and a source of inspiration, Zita Cobb, the founder of the wonderful Shorefast Foundation, based out of Fogo Island, Newfoundland. She says that ""there's this plague of sameness which is killing the human joy,"" and I couldn't agree with her more. Thank you. (Applause)"	在我的職業生涯中一直很幸運能和許多很棒的國際建築師合作，記錄他們的作品，並且觀察他們的設計是如何能影響他們所在的城市。我思考一些像是杜拜的新城市，或是像羅馬的古老城市，那裡有札哈．哈蒂設計另人驚豔的 21 世紀美術館，又或者像是在此地紐約的空中花園，受到這些設計開發影響十分深遠的城市。 但是我發現真正吸引我的是在建築師和規劃師離開之後發生的事。這些地方被人們重新定義，像是印度的昌迪加爾，這座完全由建築師柯比意所設計的城市。60 年後的現在，這座城市已由人民接手，運用的方式迥異於它原來建造的本意。就像這裡，你可以看見人們坐在聚會堂的窗洞中。在這幾年之間，我記錄了由雷姆．庫哈斯設計位在北京的中央電視台總部大樓，以及在同一個城市的國家體育場，出自建築師赫爾佐格和德梅隆。這些在中國的大型建築物周圍，你可以看到一種臨時帳篷，在整個建造期間，工人們都住在這裡。因為工程長達數年，工人們後來形成了一個簡陋、將就的非正規城市，和他們正在建造的精緻建築形成強烈對比。 在過去七年間，我一直追隨著自己對建築環境的迷戀，在座認識我的人會說這種迷戀讓我甘於過著一年 365 天提著行李箱的奔波生活。不斷地移動意謂著有時候我會巧遇人生中最難以預料的一些時刻，就像是桑迪颶風侵襲紐約的隔天。 我在三年前第一次到委內瑞拉的卡拉卡斯，在飛越這個城市的途中，見到貧民窟遍及整座城市的每個角落，讓我十分驚訝，這個地方有將近 70% 的人口住在貧民窟裡，幾乎是布滿了整個山頭。在一場與當地建築師團隊城市智庫的對話中，我聽到有關「托雷大衛高樓」的故事，那是一棟 45 層樓的辦公大樓，座落在卡拉卡斯的中心。這棟建築的工程進行到 90 年代初期，直到委內瑞拉經濟崩盤，開發商過世而中止了。大約八年前，人們開始搬進這棟廢棄的高樓，著手構築自己的家，就在這棟未完成高樓之間的每個小窗格裡。整棟大樓只有一個很小的入口，多達三千名居民進出全靠這扇唯一的門。同樣的，住戶建立了公共空間，把它構築得更像一個家，而不是一座未完成的高塔。他們在大廳漆了牆、種了樹，還設了一個籃球場。但是當你靠近些看，你會看見一些很大的洞，那是原本預留來配裝電梯和公共設施的位置。 人們在高樓裡提供各式各樣的服務，只要是生活在這棟未完成的大樓裡會碰到的各種需求都能滿足。由於沒有電梯，這棟高樓就像是 45 層樓的無電梯公寓。由這群完全沒有學過建築或設計的人們採用很特別的方式設計完成的。每一位居民都找到自己獨特的打造方式，這棟高樓變成一座生氣蓬勃的城市，一個有活躍微型經濟和小生意的地方。舉例來說，有創意的居民在最意想不到的地方找到機會，像是將停車場改造成計乘車的行經路線，把居民載上爬坡，如此一來就能縮短爬上樓的距離。 在高樓中繞一會兒，就能發現居民找到如何在高樓中搭蓋圍牆、讓空氣流通、以及採光和空氣循環的方式，基本上就是完全順應居住環境來打造一個家。當一位新居民搬進高樓，他們的頭上已有屋頂，因此他們只需要放上簾子和床單來標示自己的家。慢慢地，透過尋找材料、築起牆，人們用各種找得到的東西或材料來打造一個空間。 他們的設計選擇總讓我大為驚奇，像是當每樣東西都用紅磚做成的時候，有些居民會在紅磚上貼上另一層磚塊圖案的壁紙，讓它看起來像是剛完工的新穎模樣。 基本上居民用雙手打造自己的家，這種因為喜愛而做的舉動為這棟高樓裡的許多家庭注入一種高貴的尊嚴。他們充分利用自己的環境，試著讓空間看起來舒適、像個家，至少盡全力做到最好。你可以在整棟高樓中找到各種服務，像是理髮廳、小工廠，而且每層樓都有一家小雜貨店。甚至連教堂都找得到。在 30 樓還有一家健身房，各種舉重槓鈴、啞鈴都是用那些原本要拿來裝電梯的廢棄滑輪做成的。從外頭看，在這不斷變化的外觀後面，你會發現這些固定的水泥柱提供居民打造自宅的架構，用一種自然發展的方式直接回應他們的需求。 現在我們來到非洲奈及利亞境內一個名叫馬可可的社區，這裡有 15 萬人住在貧民窟，往下走幾尺就是拉各斯潟湖。這裡可能會變成一個非常雜亂的地方，當你從上面看，就像是一整面水道和運河組成的格子連結每一戶人家。人們從主要的碼頭搭乘長型獨木舟前往在這片廣闊水域中形形色色的住宅和商店。離開水面後，顯而易見的是人們已經完全適應這種特別的生活方式。甚至連獨木舟都變成各式各樣不同的商店，婦女划著漿挨家挨戶販賣牙膏、水果等各種東西。在每扇門窗後，你會看見小孩窺探著你。馬可可看起來到處都是人，最讓人驚訝的莫過於每戶人家不斷增加的孩童數量。奈及利亞的人口成長，尤其是在像馬可可的這些地方都痛苦地提醒著人們事情失控得多麼嚴重。 馬可可裡的民生設施和公共建設非常少。電力配線草率，整個區域最乾淨的水源是自己挖的井水。這整個經濟模式設計成能夠滿足居住在水上的特殊生活方式，因此釣魚和製作船支成了最普遍的職業。這裡有一群生意人促進了整個區域商業活動，像是理髮業、CD 和 DVD 唱片行、電影院、裁縫店，什麼東西都有。甚至還有攝影工作室，你可以看到一種住在真正房子的渴望，或是期盼和遠方有聯結，像是在瑞典的旅館。 在這特別的午後，我巧遇這組樂團，團員們穿著同樣的 T 恤團服。他們坐在配有發電機的獨木舟上漂過河道，帶給整個社區歡樂。 夜幕低垂，整個區域幾乎是一片漆黑，家戶只留下一盞小燈或爐火。 原本讓我到馬可可的原因是因為朋友介紹的這個計畫，昆勒．阿德耶米最近完成這個三層樓高的漂浮學校給馬可可的小朋友使用。這整個村莊都在水上，公共空間十分有限，因此當學校完工後，一樓就成了小朋友的遊樂區，但是下課後，平臺成了村民廣場，漁人在這裡修補魚網，漂浮商人在這兒停靠小船。 另一個我想分享的地方是在開羅的札巴林。他們是 40 年代開始從上埃及遷移來此的農民後代，現今他們維生的方式是回收整個開羅的家庭垃圾。幾年來，札巴林會住在臨時搭建的村子裡，他們為了避開地方政府四處搬遷，但是在 80 年代初期，他們定居在莫卡頓山區，位在城市的東緣。現在他們住在這個地區，大約有五到七萬人居住在這個社區中自己搭建、樓數不一的房子裡，有多達三代以上的家庭住在同一棟房子裡。僅管這些他們為自己蓋的公寓看起來沒有任何設計或正規的格局，每戶人家都專門從事某一種特定的回收，意謂著每棟房子的一樓都保留來做為處理與垃圾有關的工作，而上面的樓層則做為居住空間。我覺得很不可思議的是看到這些堆積如山的垃圾當地人似乎都視而不見，像這位高雅的先生就在像要湧向他的垃圾堆前擺出拍照的姿勢；又或是像這兩個年輕人坐在好幾噸的垃圾間聊天。然而對大部分的我們來說，住在這堆積如山的垃圾間幾乎是不可能的事，而對這些札巴林人而言，這只是另一種正常的生活方式。今天我分享的這些地方深深吸引我的原因在於其實沒有什麼事情是特別的，這也證明了人們能夠適應任何不同的環境。一天下來，要在街上碰到一場小派對是很稀鬆平常的事，就像是這場訂婚派對。這裡的傳統是待嫁新娘要公眾展示所有的嫁妝，過不久他們就會把這些東西帶到夫家去。像這樣的聚會提供了強烈的對比，所有嶄新的嫁妝就展示在這些垃圾之中，就像是道具般地突顯它們的新家飾品。如同馬可可和托雷大衛高樓，在札巴林中，你也會發現在其它典型社區中有的各種相同公共設施。有裁縫店、咖啡廳和餐廳，這個社區是科普特基督徒的社區，因此你也會找到一間教堂，以及大量的宗教圖示出現在這整個區域中。同樣地，所有日常服務像是水電行、理髮廳，各種服務都有。 參訪札巴林家庭也充滿驚喜。從外觀看，這些家庭看起來就像市區裡的一般建築，但是當你往內走，你會碰到各式各樣的設計和室內裝飾。僅管空間和收入有限，這個地區的家庭都經過精心細緻的設計。每間公寓都獨一無二，而這樣的特質展現了每一個家庭的經濟情況和價值觀。這裡的許多人把家庭和室內空間看得很重要，花了很大的力氣和精神，連細節都不放過。公共空間也同樣地精心布置，用人造大理石圖案的壁紙來裝飾。 除了這樣的精心擺設，有時候人們會以非常意想不到的方式來使用這些公寓，像是這戶人家讓我大開眼界，污泥和草幾乎從前門縫底蔓延進來。我被邀請入內後，這棟五層樓高的公寓顯然被改造成一個牧場，裡面有六、七隻牛被養在本來應該是當作客廳的地方。但是經過這個牛棚穿越門廊後，一對新婚夫妻住在一間當地人會形容這個區域最棒的公寓中。 細緻的程度讓我瞠目結舌，主人家非常驕傲地邀請我參觀公寓，從地板到天花板，每一處都有裝飾。但是如果沒有那種奇怪、熟悉、讓人作噁的臭味不斷地飄散在整間公寓裡，你會很容易遺忘自己就站在牛棚旁邊，還有垃圾堆上面。最讓我感動的是儘管這裡看似是不適合人居住的環境，我還是被張開雙臂邀請進入這個以愛、關懷和毫無保留的熱情築成的家。 讓我們移動到地圖另一端中國境內的山西、河南和甘肅。這裡以土質疏鬆的黃土高原為名，最近一項估計指出那裡至少有四千萬人住在地下屋裡，這些住所被稱為窯洞。透過這個消去的建築法，這些窯洞可以說是蓋在土裡面。在這些村子裡，你會看到完全不同的景象，藏在這些土壤中的是這些方形的屋子，位在地平面以下七尺深的泥土中。我問這些居民為什麼要向下挖房子，他們只說了因為他們是種麥和蘋果的窮農夫，沒有錢買材料，這樣挖洞是最符合常理的生活方式。 從馬可可到札巴林，這些社群都著手計畫、設計和管理社群的任務，而整個街坊明確地反應了他們的環境與處境。由在這些特殊地點居住、工作和玩耍的在地居民打造，他們用最直接的想法設計最合適的居住環境。這些大部分都是政府完全缺席的地方，讓居民毫無選擇地只好以現有的材料打造居所。在這些社群一無所有的情況下，他們會展現智慧與巧思，證明我們真的有能力適應各種環境。讓多瑞大衛高樓這種地方顯得格外特別的原因是因為這些現成的建築架構讓人們有一個能夠開始著手的基礎。想像這些聰穎的社群可以為自己創造什麼，他們的解決方式可能多特別，而前提是他們只有很基礎的建設可以運用。 今天，你看到這些大型的住宅發展計畫為面對居住問題的人們提供千篇一律的解決辦法。從中國到巴西，這些計畫嘗試盡可能提供更多的住宅，但是那全都只是普遍一視同仁的作法，這樣的方式不能滿足每個人不同的需求。 我想以一句引言做結，來自我的朋友，也是我的靈感來源，澤塔．科布，她是傑出的Shorefast 基金會的創辦人，位於紐芬蘭的福戈島。她說：「是這種一成不變的瘟疫正在扼殺人類的樂趣。」我非常認同這一點。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
