Talk	en	zh-tw
jaap_de_roode_how_butterflies_self_medicate	So infectious diseases, right? Infectious diseases  are still the main cause of human suffering and death  around the world. Every year, millions of people die of diseases such as T.B., malaria, HIV, around the world  and even in the United States. Every year, thousands of Americans die of seasonal flu. Now of course, humans, we are creative. Right? We have come up with ways to protect ourselves against these diseases. We have drugs and vaccines. And we're conscious — we learn from our experiences and come up with creative solutions. We used to think we're alone in this, but now we know we're not. We're not the only medical doctors. Now we know that there's a lot of animals out there that can do it too. Most famous, perhaps, chimpanzees. Not so much different from us, they can use plants to treat their intestinal parasites. But the last few decades have shown us that other animals can do it too: elephants, porcupines, sheep, goats, you name it. And even more interesting than that is that recent discoveries are telling us that insects and other little animals with smaller brains can use medication too. The problem with infectious diseases, as we all know, is that pathogens continue to evolve, and a lot of the drugs that we have developed are losing their efficacy. And therefore, there is this great need to find new ways to discover drugs that we can use against our diseases. Now, I think that we should look at these animals, and we can learn from them how to treat our own diseases. As a biologist, I have been studying monarch butterflies for the last 10 years. Now, monarchs are extremely famous for their spectacular migrations from the U.S. and Canada down to Mexico every year, where millions of them come together, but it's not why I started studying them. I study monarchs because they get sick. They get sick like you. They get sick like me. And I think what they do can tell us a lot about drugs that we can develop for humans. Now, the parasites that monarchs get infected with are called ophryocystis elektroscirrha — a mouthful. What they do is they produce spores, millions of spores on the outside of the butterfly that are shown as little specks in between the scales of the butterfly. And this is really detrimental to the monarch. It shortens their lifespan, it reduces their ability to fly, it can even kill them before they're even adults. Very detrimental parasite. As part of my job, I spend a lot of time in the greenhouse growing plants, and the reason for this is that monarchs are extremely picky eaters. They only eat milkweed as larvae. Luckily, there are several species of milkweed that they can use, and all these milkweeds have cardenolides in them. These are chemicals that are toxic. They're toxic to most animals, but not to monarchs. In fact, monarchs can take up the chemicals, put it in their own bodies, and it makes them toxic against their predators, such as birds. And what they do, then, is advertise this toxicity through their beautiful warning colorations with this orange, black and white. So what I did during my job is grow plants in the greenhouse, different ones, different milkweeds. Some were toxic, including the tropical milkweed, with very high concentrations of these cardenolides. And some were not toxic. And then I fed them to monarchs. Some of the monarchs were healthy. They had no disease. But some of the monarchs were sick, and what I found is that some of these milkweeds are medicinal, meaning they reduce the disease symptoms in the monarch butterflies, meaning these monarchs can live longer when they are infected when feeding on these medicinal plants. And when I found this, I had this idea, and a lot of people said it was a crazy idea, but I thought,  what if monarchs can use this? What if they can use these plants as their own form of medicine? What if they can act as medical doctors? So my team and I started doing experiments. In the first types of experiments, we had caterpillars, and gave them a choice: medicinal milkweed versus non-medicinal milkweed. And then we measured how much they ate of each species over their lifetime. And the result, as so often  in science, was boring: Fifty percent of their food was medicinal. Fifty percent was not. These caterpillars didn't do anything for their own welfare. So then we moved on to adult butterflies, and we started asking the question whether it's the mothers that can medicate their offspring. Can the mothers lay their eggs on medicinal milkweed that will make their future offspring less sick? We have done these experiments now over several years, and always get the same results. What we do is we put a monarch in a big cage, a medicinal plant on one side, a non-medicinal plant on the other side, and then we measure the number of eggs that the monarchs lay on each plant. And what we find when we do that is always the same. What we find is that the monarchs strongly prefer the medicinal milkweed. In other words, what these females are doing is they're laying 68 percent of their eggs in the medicinal milkweed. Intriguingly, what they do is they actually transmit the parasites when they're laying the eggs. They cannot prevent this. They can also not medicate themselves. But what these experiments tell us is that these monarchs, these mothers, can lay their eggs on medicinal milkweed that will make their future offspring less sick. Now, this is a really important discovery, I think, not just because it tells us something cool about nature, but also because it may tell us something more about how we should find drugs. Now, these are animals that are very small and we tend to think of them as very simple. They have tiny little brains, yet they can do this very sophisticated medication. Now, we know that even today, most of our drugs derive from natural products, including plants, and in indigenous cultures, traditional healers often look at animals to find new drugs. In this way, elephants have told us how to treat stomach upset, and porcupines have told people how to treat bloody diarrhea. What I think is important,  though, is to move beyond these large-brained mammals and give these guys more credit, these simple animals, these insects that we tend to think of as very, very simple with tiny little brains. The discovery that these animals can also use medication opens up completely new avenues, and I think that maybe one day, we will be treating human diseases with drugs that were first discovered by butterflies, and I think that is an amazing opportunity worth pursuing. Thank you so much. (Applause)	傳染病，傳染病仍然是全球人類生病和死亡的主因。每一年，全球有百萬人口死於肺結核、瘧疾、愛滋，甚至在美國，每年都有成千上萬的人因流感致命。 人類不是很有創意嗎？我們想出不少辦法保護自己，用藥物和疫苗抵抗傳染病。我們從經驗中學習，不斷想出新的解決方案。我們以為我們為此孤軍奮戰，我們不是唯一會醫治自己的動物，許多動物也有自己的方法，最有名的例子是黒猩猩，就像人類，牠們懂得用藥草驅逐腸胃裡的寄生蟲。過去幾十年間我們發現其它動物也能，大象、刺蝟、山羊、綿羊，等等。有趣的是我們最近發現，昆蟲與其它腦子較小的動物也會用藥。 我們都知道，傳染病的問題是病原體不斷演化，以致我們開發出的藥物隨之失效。我們迫切需要新方法開發新藥物來治療傳染病。 我認為我們應該研究這些動物，從牠們身上學習，來治療我們自己。做為生物學家，過去十年我致力研究帝王斑蝶，帝王斑蝶以牠們的遷徙習性而出名從加拿大、美國南遷到墨西哥數量以百萬計，但這不是我研究牠們的原因。而是因為牠們和我們一樣會罹患傳染病，所以我研究牠們。我想研究牠們可以學習到為人類開發藥物的方法。 斑蝶染上的寄生蟲有個很長的名字，叫 ophryocystis elektroscirrha。它們在蝴蝶表面生產數以百萬的孢子，可以從翅膀上鱗與鱗之間的斑點見到。帝王斑蝶為此受到很大傷害不但縮短了牠們的壽命，也降低了牠們的飛行能力。甚至能在牠們成熟前就殺死牠們。一種極為可怕的寄生蟲。 我的工作內容包括長時間在溫室養植物因為帝王斑蝶很挑食。帝王斑蝶的幼蟲只吃乳草。好險有幾種不同的乳草可供其食用，所有的乳草中都有強心甾 (cardenolides)一種對許多動物都有影響的致命毒素。但帝王斑蝶例外。帝王斑蝶甚至能吸收這些化學成份，以體內毒素抵抗牠們的天敵，例如鳥類。牠們用身上鮮豔的黃黒白斑紋來廣告自己的毒性，一種自然警告標識。 當我在溫室工作善盡己責種植不同乳草時，某些毒性很高，像是熱帶乳草，有大量的強心甾 (cardenolides)，某些卻沒有毒素。在我餵食帝王斑蝶時，某些斑蝶沒有染病，很健康。某些斑蝶則生著病，我發現某些乳草有藥效，有效減低帝王斑蝶的症狀，只要牠們食用這些藥草，就可以延長自己的性命。 當我發現的時候，我有了一個很多人覺得很瘋狂的想法。我想，如果帝王斑蝶可以應用呢？如果牠們可以把這些乳草當做藥物呢？如果牠們可以為自己開藥方呢？ 我的團隊和我開始實驗。在第一類實驗裡，我們給幼蟲兩種選擇：有藥性的乳草和沒有藥性的乳草。然後測量牠們一生各自吃了多少。就像大部分的科學研究結果一樣，答案很無聊：有藥性和沒有藥性的各半。這些幼蟲沒有為自己做出有利的選擇。 於是我們轉為研究成蝶，我們想母蝶會對自己的幼蟲用藥嗎？牠們會把卵產在有藥效的乳草上，減輕幼蟲的症狀？我們複製這個實驗多年，得到一樣的結果。我們把帝王斑蝶放進大籠子裡一邊是的乳草是有藥性的，一邊沒有，然後測量牠們在兩種乳草上的產卵數，獲得的結果是一致的。我們發現帝王斑蝶偏好藥性乳草。換句話說，雌蝶把 68％ 的卵產在藥性乳草上。事實上，在牠們產卵的時候，也不可避免的傳播了寄生蟲。牠們不能治療自己。但這個實驗告訴我們帝王斑蝶把卵產在有藥性的乳草上，減輕幼蟲的病況。 我覺得這個發現很重要。不只是因為它顯示了大自然的奧妙更提醒我們應該如何開發藥物。這些動物都很小，我們曾經覺得牠們構造單純，牠們的大腦很小，但牠們卻懂得利用自然草藥。直到今日，我們從自然中提取藥物，包括植物，在一些原始文化中，傳統療法時常借鏡動物來找新藥。大象教我們如何治療腸胃不適，刺蝟教我們如何處理腹瀉。我想，最重要的是，除了那些大腦發達的哺乳類動物外，我們也應該更加注重那些構造簡單的動物、昆蟲。發現這些動物懂得用藥，讓我們進入全新領域。也許有一天，我們會用蝴蝶找到的藥物來治療人類，我想這個機會是值得把握的。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
