Talk	en	zh-tw
jack_andraka_a_promising_test_for_pancreatic_cancer_from_a_teenager	"Have you ever experienced a moment in your life that was so painful and confusing, that all you wanted to do was learn as much as you could to make sense of it all? When I was 13, a close family friend who was like an uncle to me passed away from pancreatic cancer. When the disease hit so close to home, I knew I needed to learn more. So I went online to find answers. Using the Internet, I found a variety of statistics on pancreatic cancer, and what I had found shocked me. Over 85 percent of all pancreatic cancers are diagnosed late, when someone has less than a two percent chance of survival. Why are we so bad at detecting pancreatic cancer? The reason? Today's current ""modern"" medicine is a 60-year-old technique. That's older than my dad. (Laughter) But also, it's extremely expensive, costing 800 dollars per test, and it's grossly inaccurate, missing 30 percent of all pancreatic cancers. Your doctor would have to be ridiculously suspicious that you have the cancer in order to give you this test. Learning this, I knew there had to be a better way. So, I set up scientific criteria as to what a sensor would have to look like in order to effectively diagnose pancreatic cancer. The sensor would have to be: inexpensive, rapid, simple, sensitive, selective, and minimally invasive. Now, there's a reason why this test hasn't been updated in over six decades. And that's because when we're looking for pancreatic cancer, we're looking at your bloodstream, which is already abundant in all these tons and tons of protein, and you're looking for this miniscule difference in this tiny amount of protein. Just this one protein. That's next to impossible. However, undeterred due to my teenage optimism — (Laughter) (Applause) I went online to a teenager's two best friends, Google and Wikipedia. I got everything for my homework from those two sources. (Laughter) And what I had found was an article that listed a database of over 8,000 different proteins that are found when you have pancreatic cancer. So, I decided to go and make it my new mission to go through all these proteins, and see which ones could serve as a bio-marker for pancreatic cancer. And to make it a bit simpler for myself, I decided to map out scientific criteria, and here it is. Essentially, first, the protein would have to be found in all pancreatic cancers, at high levels in the bloodstream, in the earliest stages, but also only in cancer. And so I'm just plugging and chugging through this gargantuan task, and finally, on the 4,000th try, when I'm close to losing my sanity, I find the protein. And the name of the protein I'd located was called mesothelin, and it's just your ordinary, run-of-the-mill type protein, unless, of course, you have pancreatic, ovarian or lung cancer, in which case it's found at these very high levels in your bloodstream. But also, the key is that it's found in the earliest stages of the disease, when someone has close to 100 percent chance of survival. So now that I'd found a reliable protein I could detect, I then shifted my focus to actually detecting that protein, and thus, pancreatic cancer. Now, my breakthrough came in a very unlikely place, possibly the most unlikely place for innovation — my high school biology class, the absolute stifler of innovation. (Laughter) (Applause) And I had snuck in this article on these things called carbon nanotubes, and that's just a long, thin pipe of carbon that's an atom thick, and one 50,000th the diameter of your hair. And despite their extremely small sizes, they have these incredible properties. They're kind of like the superheroes of material science. And while I was sneakily reading this article under my desk in my biology class, we were supposed to be paying attention to these other kind of cool molecules, called antibodies. And these are pretty cool because they only react with one specific protein, but they're not nearly as interesting as carbon nanotubes. And so then, I was sitting in class, and suddenly it hit me: I could combine what I was reading about, carbon nanotubes, with what I was supposed to be thinking about, antibodies. Essentially, I could weave a bunch of these antibodies into a network of carbon nanotubes, such that you have a network that only reacts with one protein, but also, due to the properties of these nanotubes, it will change its electrical properties, based on the amount of protein present. However, there's a catch. These networks of carbon nanotubes are extremely flimsy. And since they're so delicate, they need to be supported. So that's why I chose to use paper. Making a cancer sensor out of paper is about as simple as making chocolate chip cookies, which I love. (Laughs) You start with some water, pour in some nanotubes, add antibodies, mix it up, take some paper, dip it, dry it, and you can detect cancer. (Applause) Then, suddenly, a thought occurred that kind of put a blemish on my amazing plan here. I can't really do cancer research on my kitchen countertop. My mom wouldn't really like that. So instead, I decided to go for a lab. So I typed up a budget, a materials list, a timeline, and a procedure, and I emailed it to 200 different professors at Johns Hopkins University and the National Institutes of Health — essentially, anyone that had anything to do with pancreatic cancer. I sat back waiting for these positive emails to be pouring in, saying, ""You're a genius! You're going to save us all!"" And — (Laughter) Then reality took hold, and over the course of a month, I got 199 rejections out of those 200 emails. One professor even went through my entire procedure, painstakingly — I'm not really sure where he got all this time — and he went through and said why each and every step was like the worst mistake I could ever make. Clearly, the professors did not have as high of an opinion of my work as I did. However, there is a silver lining. One professor said, ""Maybe I might be able to help you, kid."" So, I went in that direction. (Laughter) As you can never say no to a kid. And so then, three months later, I finally nailed down a harsh deadline with this guy, and I get into his lab, I get all excited, and then I sit down, I start opening my mouth and talking, and five seconds later, he calls in another Ph.D. Ph.D.s just flock into this little room, and they're just firing these questions at me, and by the end, I kind of felt like I was in a clown car. There were 20 Ph.D.s, plus me and the professor crammed into this tiny office space, with them firing these rapid-fire questions at me, trying to sink my procedure. How unlikely is that? I mean, pshhh. (Laughter) However, subjecting myself to that interrogation — I answered all their questions, and I guessed on quite a few but I got them right — and I finally landed the lab space I needed. But it was shortly afterwards that I discovered my once brilliant procedure had something like a million holes in it, and over the course of seven months, I painstakingly filled each and every one of those holes. The result? One small paper sensor that costs three cents and takes five minutes to run. This makes it 168 times faster, over 26,000 times less expensive, and over 400 times more sensitive than our current standard for pancreatic cancer detection. (Applause) One of the best parts of the sensor, though, is that it has close to 100 percent accuracy, and can detect the cancer in the earliest stages, when someone has close to 100 percent chance of survival. And so in the next two to five years, this sensor could potentially lift the pancreatic cancer survival rates from a dismal 5.5 percent to close to 100 percent, and it would do similar for ovarian and lung cancer. But it wouldn't stop there. By switching out that antibody, you can look at a different protein, thus, a different disease — potentially any disease in the entire world. So that ranges from heart disease, to malaria, HIV, AIDS, as well as other forms of cancer — anything. And so, hopefully one day, we can all have that one extra uncle, that one mother, that one brother, sister, we can have that one more family member to love. And that our hearts will be rid of that one disease burden that comes from pancreatic, ovarian and lung cancer, and potentially any disease. But through the Internet, anything is possible. Theories can be shared, and you don't have to be a professor with multiple degrees to have your ideas valued. It's a neutral space, where what you look like, age or gender — it doesn't matter. It's just your ideas that count. For me, it's all about looking at the Internet in an entirely new way, to realize that there's so much more to it than just posting duck-face pictures of yourself online. (Laughter) You could be changing the world. So if a 15 year-old who didn't even know what a pancreas was could find a new way to detect pancreatic cancer — just imagine what you could do. Thank you. (Applause)"	在你的生命中是否曾經體會過痛苦和困惑而讓你想盡辦法瞭解事情的真相？當我十三歲時有一位跟我家人關係很好對我而言就像親叔叔一樣的朋友因為胰臟癌而去世叔叔去世對我打擊很大也讓我意識到我需要對這疾病有更多認識所以我上網找尋答案我在網上找到了許多種跟胰臟癌有關的統計數據我在網上找到了許多種跟胰臟癌有關的統計數據這些數據使我大吃一驚超過百分之八十五的患者都是到了較末期才被診斷出來而存活率往往不到百分之二為什麼診斷出胰臟癌有這麼難呢？原來，現行的篩檢方法早在60年前就開始使用了比我爸的年紀都還大（笑聲）而且篩檢費很高要價800元美金結果還不是很準確有百分之三十的機率可能會診斷不出來你的主治醫生強烈懷疑你是得癌症才會讓你做這個篩檢知道這個情況後我認為應該有更好的方法於是我建立了一套科學標準讓一套篩檢器才能有效地診斷出胰臟癌這個篩檢器價格不能太貴速度要夠快容易做、靈敏度高夠精準且侵入性低容易做、靈敏度高夠精準且侵入性低目前的技術用了六十多年都沒有更新想必是有原因的目前的技術用了六十多年都沒有更新想必是有原因的因為當我們檢測胰臟癌時我們是透過血液作篩檢但血液中本來就有大量不同的蛋白質但是你要在極少量的蛋白質當中尋找極細微的差異就是在這種特定的蛋白質內尋找其實幾乎不可能但初生之犢不畏虎我不會輕言放棄（掌聲）我上網找到兩個年輕人最喜歡使用的網站Google和維基百科我寫作業都靠它們我找到一篇文章上面列出了超過 8000 種從胰臟癌患者身上所找到的蛋白質資料庫列出了超過 8000 種從胰臟癌患者身上所找到的蛋白質資料庫所以我決定要自己試試看檢驗這些蛋白質看哪個可以成為胰臟癌的判斷依據我自己為了簡化流程我決定制定一套科學化的篩選標準基本上 目標蛋白質必須要在所有種類的胰臟患者血液裡具有非常高濃度才能檢測出來必須要是在最早期也只有在罹患癌症時才會出現所以我全心投入研究這項浩大艱鉅的工作終於嘗試到第四千次時就在我快到達極限時我找到了那種蛋白質而我找到的這種蛋白質稱為「間皮素」是一種一般人體內都有的蛋白質除非你罹患胰臟癌卵巢癌或肺癌它就會在血液中大量產生但另一個關鍵是這種蛋白質可以在癌症最初期時驗出這樣病人的存活機率可高達百分之百現在要被偵測到的目標蛋白找到了我將重心轉移到檢驗這種蛋白質的方法上也就是檢測胰臟癌的方法我在意想不到的地方有重大突破那也許是最不可能出現創新的地方就是我高中的生物課一個完全扼殺創意的地方（笑聲、掌聲）我正在底下看一篇關於奈米碳管的文章奈米碳管是由碳原子所構成的細長管柱奈米碳管是由碳原子所構成的細長管柱直徑只有頭髮的五萬分之一儘管體積這麼小它們卻有不可思議的特性就像是材料科學中的超級英雄上生物課時我在桌子底下偷偷看這篇文章本來我應該專心上課學習另一種名為「抗體」的超酷分子很酷的原因是它們只會對特定蛋白質產生反應但沒有奈米碳管那麼有趣所以我坐在教室裡突然天外飛來一筆我可以將我在書上讀到的奈米碳管與課堂上教的抗體作結合基本上我可以上把這些抗體交織在奈米碳管的網狀織物上那就成了一個會針對特定蛋白質有反應的網狀系統那就成了一個會針對特定蛋白質有反應的網狀系統由於奈米碳管的特性它會依據蛋白質的數量改變其導電性然而有一個必須克服的問題奈米碳管的架構非常脆弱因此需要一些物體支撐著它這就是我選擇紙張的原因用紙製造出檢測癌症的工具就像做巧克力餅乾一樣簡單我很喜歡巧克力餅乾首先先將一些水到入奈米碳管裡再加入抗體 把兩者均勻混合拿張試紙 沾濕後 再晾乾你就可以檢驗出癌症（掌聲）但我突然想起這個完美的計畫有個致命傷我總不能在廚房工作檯上進行癌症研究我媽絕對不會讓我這麼做的因此我決定去找間實驗室我擬定預算、材料清單時間表、流程用電子郵件寄給200位教授包括約翰‧霍普金斯大學國立衛生研究院 (NIH)任何一位有關胰臟癌研究的教授接著我就慢慢等他們回信說：「你真是個天才！你是全人類的救星！」（笑聲）然後現實擺在眼前一個月過去了我收到了 199 封拒絕信有一位教授甚至煞費苦心地看完整個流程我不知道他哪來這麼多時間他看完後告訴我為什麼每個步驟我都錯得非常離譜很明顯 這位教授的看法和我不同他對我的成果沒有太高的評價但是 終於出現一絲希望一位教授說：「孩子，也許我能幫你。」所以我就去找他了（笑聲）畢竟沒有人會拒絕一個小孩子的就這樣 三個月後我和這位教授敲定的截止日距離現在不遠了我進到他的實驗室非常興奮 坐下之後我開始進行面談五秒後 他叫另一位博士進來這幾位博士和我們擠在小實驗室內他們就開始不斷問我問題最後 我覺得空間越來越擠房間裡有 20 位博士和我還有那位教授全都擠在這間小小的研究室裡不斷向我提問試著要找到我實驗流程的漏洞這可能嗎？我的意思說 怎麼可能（笑聲）但是，遭受質問後我回答了他們全部的問題有些答案是用猜的但也都有答對終於我找到一間符合我需求的實驗室但沒過多久我就發現原本很棒的實驗流程原來是漏洞百出再經過七個月的時間我小心謹慎地填補每一個漏洞結果呢？ 一小張試紙只需3分美金花5分鐘進行檢測比原本快了168倍也便宜了26,000倍靈敏度提升了400倍跟現有的胰臟癌測試流程相比（掌聲）這種試紙最棒的就是準確度幾乎達到百分之百而且能夠偵測到初期的癌症在初期就發現罹患癌症的話患者的存活率是接近百分之百所以未來二至五年這試紙就有可能提升胰臟癌患者的存活機率從非常低的百分之五點五驟升至將近百分之百也可應用至檢驗卵巢癌及肺癌而且還不僅於此只要替換抗體你就可以檢查不同的蛋白質也就是可以檢查出不同的疾病可能是這世上任何的疾病包括心臟病瘧疾、人類免疫缺陷病毒、愛滋病以及其他種類的癌症 - 任何一種所以希望有一天我們都能多一位叔叔母親、兄弟、姊妹多一位家庭成員去愛我們也可擺脫疾病的困擾無論是胰臟癌、卵巢癌或肺癌甚至任何疾病都可以只要透過網際網路凡事皆可能可以與大家分享你的理論你不用是一位擁有許多學位教授才能讓你的想法受人重視這是一個中立的空間不管外表好看與否 年紀幾歲 是男是女都不重要重要的是你的想法對我而言，我們必須以另一種全新觀點來看待網際網路才會發現還有許多網路資源有待我們善加利用而不是在網路上張貼一些嘟嘴的自拍照你也能改變世界所以如果一個15歲的孩子甚至不知道胰臟是什麼器官都能找出檢測胰臟癌的新方法想想看你能做些什麼吧!謝謝（掌聲）
