Talk	en	zh-tw
jake_barton_the_museum_of_you	"This is Charley Williams. He was 94 when this photograph was taken. In the 1930s, Roosevelt put thousands and thousands of Americans back to work by building bridges and infrastructure and tunnels, but he also did something interesting, which was to hire a few hundred writers to scour America to capture the stories of ordinary Americans. Charley Williams, a poor sharecropper, wouldn't ordinarily be the subject of a big interview, but Charley had actually been a slave until he was 22 years old. And the stories that were captured of his life make up one of the crown jewels of histories, of human-lived experiences filled with ex-slaves. Anna Deavere Smith famously said that there's a literature inside of each of us, and three generations later, I was part of a project called StoryCorps, which set out to capture the stories of ordinary Americans by setting up a soundproof booth in public spaces. The idea is very, very simple. You go into these booths, you interview your grandmother or relative, you leave with a copy of the interview and an interview goes into the Library of Congress. It's essentially a way to make a national oral histories archive one conversation at a time. And the question is, who do you want to remember — if you had just 45 minutes with your grandmother? What's interesting, in conversations with the founder, Dave Isay, we always actually talked about this as a little bit of a subversive project, because when you think about it, it's actually not really about the stories that are being told, it's about listening, and it's about the questions that you get to ask, questions that you may not have permission to on any other day. I'm going to play you just a couple of quick excerpts from the project. [Jesus Melendez talking about poet Pedro Pietri's final moments] Jesus Melendez: We took off, and as we were ascending, before we had leveled off, our level-off point was 45,000 feet, so before we had leveled off, Pedro began leaving us, and the beauty about it is that I believe that there's something after life. You can see it in Pedro. [Danny Perasa to his wife Annie Perasa married 26 years] Danny Perasa: See, the thing of it is, I always feel guilty when I say ""I love you"" to you, and I say it so often. I say it to remind you that as dumpy as I am, it's coming from me, it's like hearing a beautiful song from a busted old radio, and it's nice of you to keep the radio around the house. (Laughter) [Michael Wolmetz with his girlfriend Debora Brakarz] Michael Wolmetz: So this is the ring that my father gave to my mother, and we can leave it there. And he saved up and he purchased this, and he proposed to my mother with this, and so I thought that I would give it to you so that he could be with us for this also. So I'm going to share a mic with you right now, Debora. Where's the right finger? Debora Brakarz: (Crying) MW: Debora, will you please marry me? DB: Yes. Of course. I love you. (Kissing) MW: So kids, this is how your mother and I got married, in a booth in Grand Central Station with my father's ring. My grandfather was a cab driver for 40 years. He used to pick people up here every day. So it seems right. Jake Barton: So I have to say I did not actually choose those individual samples to make you cry because they all make you cry. The entire project is predicated on this act of love which is listening itself. And that motion of building an institution out of a moment of conversation and listening is actually a lot of what my firm, Local Projects, is doing with our engagements in general. So we're a media design firm, and we're working with a broad array of different institutions building media installations for museums and public spaces. Our latest engagement is the Cleveland Museum of Art, which we've created an engagement called Gallery One for. And Gallery One is an interesting project because it started with this massive, $350 million expansion for the Cleveland Museum of Art, and we actually brought in this piece specifically to grow new capacity, new audiences, at the same time that the museum itself is growing. Glenn Lowry, the head of MoMA, put it best when he said, ""We want visitors to actually cease being visitors. Visitors are transient. We want people who live here, people who have ownership."" And so what we're doing is making a broad array of different ways for people to actually engage with the material inside of these galleries, so you can still have a traditional gallery experience, but if you're interested, you can actually engage with any individual artwork and see the original context from where it's from, or manipulate the work itself. So, for example, you can click on this individual lion head, and this is where it originated from, 1300 B.C. Or this individual piece here, you can see the actual bedroom. It really changes the way you think about this type of a tempera painting. This is one of my favorites because you see the studio itself. This is Rodin's bust. You get the sense of this incredible factory for creativity. And it makes you think about literally the hundreds or thousands of years of human creativity and how each individual artwork stands in for part of that story. This is Picasso, of course embodying so much of it from the 20th century. And so our next interface, which I'll show you, actually leverages that idea of this lineage of creativity. It's an algorithm that actually allows you to browse the actual museum's collection using facial recognition. So this person's making different faces, and it's actually drawing forth different objects from the collection that connect with exactly how she's looking. And so you can imagine that, as people are performing inside of the museum itself, you get this sense of this emotional connection, this way in which our face connects with the thousands and tens of thousands of years. This is an interface that actually allows you to draw and then draws forth objects using those same shapes. So more and more we're trying to find ways for people to actually author things inside of the museums themselves, to be creative even as they're looking at other people's creativity and understanding them. So in this wall, the collections wall, you can actually see all 3,000 artworks all at the same time, and you can actually author your own individual walking tours of the museum, so you can share them, and someone can take a tour with the museum director or a tour with their little cousin. But all the while that we've been working on this engagement for Cleveland, we've also been working in the background on really our largest engagement to date, and that's the 9/11 Memorial and Museum. So we started in 2006 as part of a team with Thinc Design to create the original master plan for the museum, and then we've done all the media design both for the museum and the memorial and then the media production. So the memorial opened in 2011, and the museum's going to open next year in 2014. And you can see from these images, the site is so raw and almost archaeological. And of course the event itself is so recent, somewhere between history and current events, it was a huge challenge to imagine how do you actually live up to a space like this, an event like this, to actually tell that story. And so what we started with was really a new way of thinking about building an institution, through a project called Make History, which we launched in 2009. So it's estimated that a third of the world watched 9/11 live, and a third of the world heard about it within 24 hours, making it really by nature of when it happened, this unprecedented moment of global awareness. And so we launched this to capture the stories from all around the world, through video, through photos, through written history, and so people's experiences on that day, which was, in fact, this huge risk for the institution to make its first move this open platform. But that was coupled together with this oral histories booth, really the simplest we've ever made, where you locate yourself on a map. It's in six languages, and you can tell your own story about what happened to you on that day. And when we started seeing the incredible images and stories that came forth from all around the world — this is obviously part of the landing gear — we really started to understand that there was this amazing symmetry between the event itself, between the way that people were telling the stories of the event, and how we ourselves needed to tell that story. This image in particular really captured our attention at the time, because it so much sums up that event. This is a shot from the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel. There's a firefighter that's stuck, actually, in traffic, and so the firefighters themselves are running a mile and a half to the site itself with upwards of 70 pounds of gear on their back. And we got this amazing email that said, ""While viewing the thousands of photos on the site, I unexpectedly found a photo of my son. It was a shock emotionally, yet a blessing to find this photo,"" and he was writing because he said, ""I'd like to personally thank the photographer for posting the photo, as it meant more than words can describe to me to have access to what is probably the last photo ever taken of my son."" And it really made us recognize what this institution needed to be in order to actually tell that story. We can't have just a historian or a curator narrating objectively in the third person about an event like that, when you have the witnesses to history who are going to make their way through the actual museum itself. And so we started imagining the museum, along with the creative team at the museum and the curators, thinking about how the first voice that you would hear inside the museum would actually be of other visitors. And so we created this idea of an opening gallery called We Remember. And I'll just play you part of a mockup of it, but you get a sense of what it's like to actually enter into that moment in time and be transported back in history. (Video) Voice 1: I was in Honolulu, Hawaii. Voice 2: I was in Cairo, Egypt. Voice 3: Sur les Champs-Élysées, à Paris. Voice 4: In college, at U.C. Berkeley. Voice 5: I was in Times Square. Voice 6: São Paolo, Brazil. (Multiple voices) Voice 7: It was probably about 11 o'clock at night. Voice 8: I was driving to work at 5:45 local time in the morning. Voice 9: We were actually in a meeting when someone barged in and said, ""Oh my God, a plane has just crashed into the World Trade Center."" Voice 10: Trying to frantically get to a radio. Voice 11: When I heard it over the radio — Voice 12: Heard it on the radio. (Multiple voices) Voice 13: I got a call from my father. Voice 14: The phone rang, it woke me up. My business partner told me to turn on the television. Voice 15: So I switched on the television. Voice 16: All channels in Italy were displaying the same thing. Voice 17: The Twin Towers. Voice 18: The Twin Towers. JB: And you move from there into that open, cavernous space. This is the so-called slurry wall. It's the original, excavated wall at the base of the World Trade Center that withstood the actual pressure from the Hudson River for a full year after the event itself. And so we thought about carrying that sense of authenticity, of presence of that moment into the actual exhibition itself. And we tell the stories of being inside the towers through that same audio collage, so you're hearing people literally talking about seeing the planes as they make their way into the building, or making their way down the stairwells. And as you make your way into the exhibition where it talks about the recovery, we actually project directly onto these moments of twisted steel all of the experiences from people who literally excavated on top of the pile itself. And so you can hear oral histories — so people who were actually working the so-called bucket brigades as you're seeing literally the thousands of experiences from that moment. And as you leave that storytelling moment understanding about 9/11, we then turn the museum back into a moment of listening and actually talk to the individual visitors and ask them their own experiences about 9/11. And we ask them questions that are actually not really answerable, the types of questions that 9/11 itself draws forth for all of us. And so these are questions like, ""How can a democracy balance freedom and security?"" ""How could 9/11 have happened?"" ""And how did the world change after 9/11?"" And so these oral histories, which we've actually been capturing already for years, are then mixed together with interviews that we're doing with people like Donald Rumsfeld, Bill Clinton, Rudy Giuliani, and you mix together these different players and these different experiences, these different reflection points about 9/11. And suddenly the institution, once again, turns into a listening experience. So I'll play you just a short excerpt of a mockup that we made of a couple of these voices, but you really get a sense of the poetry of everyone's reflection on the event. (Video) Voice 1: 9/11 was not just a New York experience. Voice 2: It's something that we shared, and it's something that united us. Voice 3: And I knew when I saw that, people who were there that day who immediately went to help people known and unknown to them was something that would pull us through. Voice 4: All the outpouring of affection and emotion that came from our country was something really that will forever, ever stay with me. Voice 5: Still today I pray and think about those who lost their lives, and those who gave their lives to help others, but I'm also reminded of the fabric of this country, the love, the compassIon, the strength, and I watched a nation come together in the middle of a terrible tragedy. JB: And so as people make their way out of the museum, reflecting on the experience, reflecting on their own thoughts of it, they then move into the actual space of the memorial itself, because they've gone back up to grade, and we actually got involved in the memorial after we'd done the museum for a few years. The original designer of the memorial, Michael Arad, had this image in his mind of all the names appearing undifferentiated, almost random, really a poetic reflection on top of the nature of a terrorism event itself, but it was a huge challenge for the families, for the foundation, certainly for the first responders, and there was a negotiation that went forth and a solution was found to actually create not an order in terms of chronology, or in terms of alphabetical, but through what's called meaningful adjacency. So these are groupings of the names themselves which appear undifferentiated but actually have an order, and we, along with Jer Thorp, created an algorithm to take massive amounts of data to actually start to connect together all these different names themselves. So this is an image of the actual algorithm itself with the names scrambled for privacy, but you can see that these blocks of color are actually the four different flights, the two different towers, the first responders, and you can actually see within that different floors, and then the green lines are the interpersonal connections that were requested by the families themselves. And so when you go to the memorial, you can actually see the overarching organization inside of the individual pools themselves. You can see the way that the geography of the event is reflected inside of the memorial, and you can search for an individual name, or in this case an employer, Cantor Fitzgerald, and see the way in which all of those names, those hundreds of names, are actually organized onto the memorial itself, and use that to navigate the memorial. And more importantly, when you're actually at the site of the memorial, you can see those connections. You can see the relationships between the different names themselves. So suddenly what is this undifferentiated, anonymous group of names springs into reality as an individual life. In this case, Harry Ramos, who was the head trader at an investment bank, who stopped to aid Victor Wald on the 55th floor of the South Tower. And Ramos told Wald, according to witnesses, ""I'm not going to leave you."" And Wald's widow requested that they be listed next to each other. Three generations ago, we had to actually get people to go out and capture the stories for common people. Today, of course, there's an unprecedented amount of stories for all of us that are being captured for future generations. And this is our hope, that's there's poetry inside of each of our stories. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	這是查利•威廉姆斯這張照片攝於他九十四歲時上世紀三十年代通過建造橋樑、公共建設和修築隧道的方式羅斯福總統讓成千上萬美國人重回工作崗位與此同時，他做了一件有趣的事他僱傭了幾百名作家到全國各地去蒐集普通百姓的故事作為一個貧窮的美國佃農查利•威廉姆斯不太可能成為此次大訪談的對象但是，查利在二十二歲前是一個奴隸而且他生活中的故事成了歷史王冠上一顆閃亮的明珠也是這個充滿前奴隸的社會的重要組成部分 安娜•迪佛•史密斯曾說過一句著名的話“本質上，我們每個人都是一部文學著作。”三代人之後我成了“StoryCorps”的一員StoryCorps的目的就是通過在公共場合建造一個隔音間來蒐集普通美國百姓的故事這個主意其實很簡單你到隔間裡採訪你的祖母或其他親屬結束後，你帶走一份訪談拷貝而且訪談內容會進到國會圖書館裡本質上，形成國家口述​​故事檔案館的重要方法就是通過一次一個對話的方式關鍵是，你想要記住誰呢如果你和你祖母只有四十五分鐘時間的話有意思的是，在和創始人戴夫•伊塞的交談中我們總會談到這個把牠當做一個略具顛覆性的計劃因為，當思考到這個問題時你會覺得，其實跟講述的故事無甚關係聆聽才是最重要的還有你會問到的問題可能這些問題在其他任何場合你都不能問接下來，就讓大家聽幾段項目裡的錄音 「傑西•梅倫德斯談論詩人佩德羅•皮埃特利的最後時刻」 傑西：我們起飛了，飛機正在上升在水平飛行之前水平飛行高度是四萬五千英尺所以是在水平飛行之前佩德羅就開始離我們而去其美妙之處在於我相信，人死後仍能有所期待從佩德羅身上就能看到 「丹尼•佩拉薩致妻子安妮•佩拉薩，他們已婚26年」 丹尼：事情是這樣的每當對你說“我愛你”，我就感覺內疚而且也說的次數不少我說“我​​愛你”是為了提醒你儘管我又矮又胖，但那句話是我說的就像用老式破收音機收聽美妙的歌曲你能好心地保存著這個破收音機真好 （笑聲） 「邁克爾•沃爾梅茨和女友黛博拉•布雷卡茲」 邁克爾：這是我父親給我母親的戒指現在先把它放在一邊父親省吃儉用，然后買下了這個戒指之後用它向我母親求了婚我想，我要把這個戒指給你那樣父親也會與我們在一起所以黛博拉，我現在要和你共用一個麥克風了該戴在哪個手指上？（黛博拉哭泣中）邁克爾：黛博拉，你願意嫁給我嗎黛博拉：當然，我願意，我愛你（親吻）邁克爾：孩子們，我和你們的媽媽就這樣結婚了在中央車站的隔音間裡，用我父親的婚戒我爺爺當了四十年出租車司機過去他每天都在這裡載人看起來沒錯 傑克•巴頓：所以我得聲明一下我並沒特地選擇這些錄音樣本來讓你們掉眼淚但這些錄音讓你們哭了我們整個項目都是基於這種愛的行為也就是聆聽出於談話及傾聽而建造一個公共機構大體說來，正是我們公司（Local Projects）受委託而踐行的事我們是一家媒體設計公司並且和許多不同機構有合作關係主要是給博物館及在公共空間安裝媒體設備 我們最近的委託方是克利夫蘭藝術博物館我們已在那兒創建了一個叫“第一畫廊”的互動設計“第一畫廊”是個很有趣的項目因為是從這個巨大的、價值三億五千萬美元的擴展入手給克利夫蘭藝術博物館進行設計實際上，我們引進這個設備特地用來創造新空間，吸引新觀眾同時博物館也在擴大 紐約現代藝術博物館（MoMA）館長格倫•洛瑞做了最好的詮釋他說，“我們不要讓遊客再做遊客，遊客都是暫時的，我們需要住在這裡的、有所有權的人。 ” 所以我們正在做的，就是運用許多​​不同方式所以我們正在做的，就是運用許多​​不同方式讓人們能與畫廊裡的展品進行互動因此，你仍能以傳統的方式參觀畫廊但是，如果你感興趣的話你還可以和任意藝術品進行互動看看它的原始脈絡，或者控制這個展品比如，你可以點擊這個獅頭這就是它發源的地方，公元前一千三百年或者點擊這件獨立藝術品你會看到這個實際的臥室而且牠能改變你對這類蛋彩畫的看法這是我最喜歡的作品之一因為能看到工作室的原貌這是羅丹的半身像，你們可以感受到這個令人難以置信的、為創造而建的工廠它會讓你直接聯想到幾千年甚至幾萬年前人類的創造力還有每個藝術品是怎樣代表了那段歷史這是畢加索當然很多是收錄自二十世紀 而且我要展示的下一個界面實際上影響了這種創造力傳承的理念牠是一種演算法則，但卻能讓你通過面部識別的方式瀏覽博物館內的藏品這個人正在扮不同的鬼臉但實際上，根據她扮的鬼臉能夠提取出館藏中相關聯的不同物品所以可以想見，當人們在博物館裡“表演”時你能感受到這種情感聯繫這樣的話，我們的面部表情就能與幾萬年前聯繫起來事實上，這個界面還能讓你反复提取出你畫出的形狀相關的物品所以，我們正在尋求更多的方式讓人們在博物館裡進行創作甚至在看到別人的創意後，並將其理解自己也會富有創造力 在這面藏品牆上你能同時看到三千件藝術品而且可以製作你的專屬博物館漫步遊所以你才能分享它們人們可以和館長在館內漫步遊也可以和其小堂兄妹一起 但儘管我們一直竭力完成克利夫蘭藝術博物館的委託同時，我們也一直致力於迄今最大的委託也就是9·11事件紀念博物館 我們從二零零六年開始就把牠作為團隊工作的部分和 Thinc Design 團隊一道為該博物館創建總體規劃圖之後我們為該博物館和紀念館做了所有的媒體設計，然後是媒體製作於是該紀念館在二零一一年開館了博物館將會在明年開館，也就是二零一四年從這些圖片可以看出場地還很原始，跟考古現場差不多而且9·11事件也離我們非常近介乎歷史和時事之間這是個巨大的挑戰要構建如此巨大的場館及事故現場，還有敘述那段故事 於是在二零零九年我們從一個叫做“製造歷史”的項目入手該項目的確是一個建造公共機構的新思路據估計，世界上三分之一的人觀看了9·11事件直播三分之一的人在二十四小時內聽說了這起事件當它發生時，這都自然而然使得這個空前時刻具有了全球化意識所以我們發起這個項目，旨在全球蒐集故事通過錄像，通過照片通過書本記載所以人們那天的經歷事實上，機構要面臨的巨大風險是第一步即，把這些經歷放到這個開放的平台上但還要加上這個口述故事隔間這真的是我們做過最簡單的你可以在地圖上給自己定位它支援六種語言你可以講述那天你自己經歷的事但我們看到這些驚人的圖片和故事從全世界湧來的時候（這個很明顯是起落架的殘骸）我們才開始真正理解到9·11事件本身有不可思議的對稱性人們講述故事的方式和我們需要怎樣講述之間也存在對稱性 尤其這張照片，當時真的吸引了我們的注意力因為它很好的概述了9·11事件這個鏡頭是在砲台隧道捕捉到的有輛消防車遇上交通堵塞所以這些消防員就扛著超過七十磅的裝備跑了一點五英里到達指定地點之後我們收到了這封不可思議的郵件“在翻看不計其數的現場照片時，我無意間發現一張我兒子的照片。那是種感情衝擊，但能發現這張照片也是件幸事。 ”他寫郵件過來是因為他說“我想感謝貼出這張照片的攝影師，這很可能是我兒子最後一張照片，但我可以發現它，它的意義我已經不能用語言表達。 ” 這真的讓我們認識到如果要講述9·11事件這個機構應該怎麼做我們不能只讓一個歷史學家或館長站在第三者的角度客觀描述那樣一個事件尤其是當那麼多歷史見證者將要在這個博物館中參觀的時候 於是我們開始構思這個博物館和館內的創意團隊和館長們一起思考館內的第一個聲音要怎樣才能引起參觀者的共鳴所以我們採取了一個開放式長廊的想法叫做“銘記”接下來就讓大家聽聽模擬長廊內的部分錄音但你能體會到身處那個時刻是怎樣的感覺會被帶回到歷史中去 我在夏威夷檀香山我在埃及開羅 我在巴黎香榭麗舍大街我在加州大學伯克利分校 我在時代廣場我在巴西聖保羅市 （多重聲音） 大約在晚上十一點 我在開車上班的路上，當地時間早上五點四十五分 我們當時正在開會，有人突然闖進來說“天啊，一架飛機剛撞到世貿大廈上了！” 我瘋狂地尋找收音機 當我在收音機上聽到這個事件時 從收音機上聽到這個事件 （多重聲音） 我接到父親打來的電話電話響了，把我吵醒我的生意搭檔讓我打開電視機 於是我打開電視機 意大利的所有電視頻道都在播同一件事 雙子塔雙子塔 傑克•巴頓：之後你就會從那邊走到那個空曠的穴狀空間這就是所謂的槽壁就是這個從世貿大廈底部掘出的牆在9·11事件後承受了整整一年來自哈德遜河的壓力所以我們想，通過這種真實性把當時的感受體現到實物上通過上述的合成音頻我們在雙子塔內講述那些故事所以當人們在館內參觀的時候你能聽見他們說看見飛機撞上大廈或從樓梯往下跑的事當你走進講述重建的展廳當你走進講述重建的展廳我們直接把人們站在扭曲鋼筋堆上的經歷表現了出來所以你們能聽見口述歷史你們能看到在水桶傳遞隊工作的人當你觀看源於當時的無數經歷時 在走出理解9·11事件的講故事時刻後我們讓博物館重新回到聆聽時刻然後和參觀者單獨交談詢問一些他們自己的9·11事件經歷還會問一些他們不太好回答的問題還會問一些他們不太好回答的問題這些問題都是由9·11事件引出的就像如下這些問題民主是怎麼平衡自由和安全的？9·11事件怎麼會發生？9·11事件後世界發生了怎樣的改變？ 所以這些口述歷史這些我們蒐集多年的口述歷史與我們所做的專訪是混在一起比如唐納德•拉姆斯菲爾德比爾•克林頓，魯迪•朱利安尼你會把這些不同的9·11事件角色體驗和反射點糅合在一起突然，博物館再次投向聆聽體驗接下來我給大家播放一段模擬節選這個節選就是我們用其中的一些錄音做的但它的確會讓你感受到其中每個人對9·11事件沉思的詩意 9·11事件不僅是紐約的不幸遭遇 它是我們共享的東西，是連結我們的東西 當我看到現場後我就知道那天在現場的人們他們立即跑去幫助認識的、不認識的人他們的行為會使我們渡過難關 所有來自我們國家的感情和情緒傾瀉會永遠永遠留在我心中 直到現在我仍會想起那些逝者為他們祈禱還有那些奉獻自己、幫助他人的人但我同樣意識到了這個國家的構成關愛、慈悲和力量我看到一個國家在災難中團結在一起 傑克•巴頓：當遊者走出博物館思考著9·11事件，回想著自己的想法然後他們走到紀念館中因為他們回顧了足夠多其實開始建造紀念館已經是我們建造博物館幾年之後紀念館的原設計師麥克•埃拉德的設想圖像裡紀念館的原設計師麥克•埃拉德的設想圖像裡浮現出的名字都沒明顯特點，近乎隨機的確是超出9·11恐怖襲擊本質的詩意反映的確是超出9·11恐怖襲擊本質的詩意反映但對所有家庭、基金會來說卻是巨大的挑戰當然還有第一目擊者還有協商需要進行和不依照大事記或字母順序的建造解決方案和不依照大事記或字母順序的建造解決方案和不依照大事記或字母順序的建造解決方案但是得貫穿所謂的意涵豐富的毗鄰這些名字組看起來沒特點但其實是有序的我們和傑•索普一起製造了一個演算平台讓牠承載海量的數據來開始把所有各不相同的名字連結起來這就是那個演算平台的圖像名字都以密碼形式呈現是為了保護隱私但你們可以看到這些顏色塊實際上是四架不同的飛機兩座不同的塔樓，還有第一目擊者們在不同層級之間，你能清楚的看到這些綠線是應受害家庭要求添上去的人際關係線當你去到紀念館你會發現這個拱形紀念館是在兩個單獨的泳池內部你會發現這個拱形紀念館是在兩個單獨的泳池內部還有9·11事件的地形分佈是如何在紀念館內部得到體現的而且你還能搜索任意一個名字這裡我們以雇主坎托-菲茨杰拉德公司為例看看這數以千計的人名是如何井然有序的排列在紀念館內的然後通過它在館內找到正確方向更重要的是，當你身處紀念館內時你就能看到那些關係你能清楚看出不同名字之間的關聯所以這些沒有突出特點的名字組就會以獨立生活經歷的方式融入現實這里以哈里•拉莫斯為例他曾是一個投資銀行的操盤手主管正是他停下來救助南塔樓五十五層的維克托•沃爾德據目擊者稱，拉莫斯告訴沃爾德“我不會丟下你的。”於是沃爾德的遺孀要求把他們的名字列在一起 三代人前，我們必須讓人去到全國各地才能蒐集到普通百姓的故事現在，我們毫無疑問能夠為後代蒐集不可勝數的故事我們的願望就是讓每一個故事都能從本質上體現出詩意 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
