Talk	en	zh-tw
james_a_white_sr_the_little_problem_i_had_renting_a_house	"An 18-year-old, African-American male joined the United States Air Force and was assigned to Mountain Home  Air Force Base and was a part of the air police squadron. Upon first arriving there, the first goal that I had was for me to identify an apartment, so I could bring my wife  and my new baby, Melanie, out to join me in Idaho. I immediately went to  the personnel office, and talking with the guys in personnel, they said, ""Hey, no problem finding  an apartment in Mountain Home, Idaho. The people down there love us  because they know if they have an airman who is coming in to rent  one of their apartments, they'll always get their money."" And that was a really important thing. He said, ""So here is a list  of people that you can call, and then they will then allow you  to select the apartment that you want."" So I got the list; I made the call. The lady answered on the other end and I told her what I wanted. She said, ""Oh, great you called. We have four or five apartments available right now."" She said, ""Do you want  a one-bedroom or two-bedroom?"" Then she said, ""Let's not talk about that. Just come on down,  select the apartment that you want. We'll sign the contract and you'll have keys in your hand to get your family out here right away."" So I was excited. I jumped in my car. I went downtown and knocked on the door. When I knocked on the door,  the woman came to the door, and she looked at me, and she said, ""Can I help you?"" I said, ""Yes, I'm the person  who called about the apartments. I was just coming down  to make my selection."" She said, ""You know what?  I'm really sorry, but my husband rented those apartments and didn't tell me about them."" I said, ""You mean he rented  all five of them in one hour?"" She didn't give me a response, and what she said was this: She said, ""Why don't you leave your number, and if we have some openings,  I'll give you a call?"" Needless to say, I did not get a call from her. Nor did I get any responses  from the other people that they gave me on the list where I could get apartments. So as a result of that, and feeling rejected, I went back to the base, and I talked to the squadron commander. His name was McDow, Major McDow. I said, ""Major McDow, I need your help."" I told him what happened,  and here's what he said to me: He said, ""James, I would love to help you. But you know the problem: We can't make people rent to folks  that they don't want to rent to. And besides, we have a great relationship with people in the community and we really don't want to damage that."" He said, ""So maybe this is  what you should do. Why don't you let your family stay home, because you do know  that you get a 30-day leave. So once a year, you can go home to your family, spend 30 days and then come on back."" Needless to say, that didn't resonate for me. So after leaving him,  I went back to personnel, and talking to the clerk, he said, ""Jim, I think I have a  solution for you. There's an airman who is leaving and he has a trailer. If you noticed, in Mountain Home, there are trailer parks and trailers all over the place. You can buy his trailer, and you'd probably get a really good deal because he wants to get out of town as soon as possible. And that would take care of your problem, and that would provide  the solution for you."" So I immediately jumped in my car, went downtown, saw the trailer — it was a small trailer, but under the circumstances, I figured that was the  best thing that I could do. So I bought the trailer. And then I asked him,  ""Can I just leave the trailer here, and that would take care  of all my problems, I wouldn't have to find another trailer park?"" He said, ""Before I say yes to that,  I need to check with management."" So I get back to the base, he called me back and management said, ""No, you can't leave the trailer here because we had promised that slot to some other people."" And that was strange to me because there were several  other slots that were open, but it just so happened that he  had promised that slot to someone else. So, what I did — and he said, ""You shouldn't worry, Jim, because there are a lot of trailer parks."" So I put out another exhaustive list of going to trailer parks. I went to one after another,  after another. And I got the same kind of rejection there that I received when I was looking  for the apartment. And as a result, the kind of comments that they made to me, in addition to saying that they didn't have any slots open, one person said, ""Jim, the reason why we can't rent to you, we already have a Negro family in the trailer park."" He said, ""And it's not me,  because I like you people."" (Laughs) And that's what I did, too. I chuckled, too. He said, ""But here's the problem: If I let you in, the other tenants  will move out and I can't afford to take that kind of a hit."" He said, ""I just can't rent to you."" Even though that was discouraging, it didn't stop me. I kept looking, and I looked at the far end  of the town in Mountain Home, and there was a small trailer park. I mean, a really small trailer park. It didn't have any paved roads in it, it didn't have the concrete slabs, it didn't have fencing to portion off your trailer slot  from other trailer slots. It didn't have a laundry facility. But the conclusion I reached  at that moment was that I didn't have  a lot of other options. So I called my wife, and I said, ""We're going to make this one work."" And we moved into it and we became homeowners in Mountain Home, Idaho. And of course, eventually things settled down. Four years after that, I received papers to move from Mountain Home, Idaho to a place called Goose Bay, Labrador. We won't even talk about that. It was another great location. (Laughter) So my challenge then was to get my family  from Mountain Home, Idaho to Sharon, Pennsylvania. That wasn't a problem because we had just purchased a brand-new automobile. My mother called  and said she'll fly out. She'll be with us as we drive, she'll help us manage the children. So she came out, her and Alice  put a lot of food together for the trip. That morning, we left at about 5 a.m. Great trip, having a great time,  good conversation. Somewhere around 6:30, 7 o'clock, we got a little bit tired, and we said, ""Why don't we get a motel so that we can rest and then have an early start in the morning?"" So we were looking at a number  of the motels as we drove down the road, and we saw one, it was a great big, bright flashing light that said, ""Vacancies, Vacancies, Vacanies."" So we stopped in. They were in the parking lot,  I went inside. When I walked inside, the lady was just finishing up  one contract with some folks, some other people  were coming in behind me. And so I walked to the counter, and she said, ""How can I help you?"" I said, ""I would like to get a motel  for the evening for my family."" She said, ""You know, I'm really sorry, I just rented the last one. We will not have any more  until the morning."" She said, ""But if you go down the road about an hour, 45 minutes, there's another trailer park down there."" I said, ""Yeah, but you still have the  'Vacancies' light on, and it's flashing."" She said, ""Oh, I forgot."" And she reached over  and turned the light off. She looked at me and I looked at her. There were other people in the room. She kind of looked at them. No one said anything. So I just got the hint and I left, and went outside to the parking lot. And I told my mother and I told my wife and also Melanie, and I said, ""It looks like we're going to have to drive a little bit further down the road to be able to sleep tonight."" And we did drive down the road, but just before we took off  and pulled out of the parking lot, guess what happened? The light came back on. And it said, ""Vacancies,  Vacancies, Vacancies."" We were able to find a nice place. It wasn't our preference, but it was secure and it was clean. And so we had a great sleep that night. The piece that's important about that is that we had similar kinds of experiences from Idaho all the way through  to Pennsylvania, where we were rejected from hotels,  motels and restaurants. But we made it to Pennsylvania. We got the family settled. Everyone was glad to see the kids. I jumped on a plane and shot off to Goose Bay, Labrador, which is another story, right? (Laughter) Here it is, 53 years later, I now have nine grandchildren,  two great-grandchildren. Five of the grandchildren are boys. I have master's, Ph.D., undergrad, one in medical school. I have a couple that are trending. They're almost there but not quite. (Laughter) I have one who has been  in college now for eight years. (Laughter) He doesn't have a degree yet,  but he wants to be a comedian. So we're just trying to get him to stay in school. Because you never know, just because you're funny at home, does not make you a comedian, right? (Laughter) But the thing about it,  they're all good kids — no drugs, no babies  in high school, no crime. So with that being the backdrop, I was sitting in my TV room watching TV, and they were talking about Ferguson and all the hullabaloo that was going on. And all of a sudden, one of the news  commentators got on the air and she said, ""In the last three months, eight unarmed African-American males have been killed by police, white homeowners, or white citizens."" For some reason, at that moment it just all hit me. I said, ""What is it? It is so insane. What is the hatred that's causing people  to do these kinds of things?"" Just then, one of my grandsons called. He said, ""Granddad, did you hear what they said on TV?"" I said, ""Yes, I did."" He said, ""I'm just so confused. We do everything we do, but it seems that driving while black, walking while black, talking while black, it's just dangerous. What can we do? We do everything that you told us to do. When stopped by the police, we place both hands on the steering wheel at the 12 o'clock position. If asked to get identification, we tell them, 'I am slowly reaching over  into the glove compartment to get my I.D.' When pulled out of the car to be searched, when laid on the ground to be searched, when our trunks are opened to be searched, we don't push back, we don't challenge because we know, you've told us, 'Don't you challenge the police. After it's over, call us and we'll be the ones to challenge."" He said, ""And this is the piece  that really bugs me: Our white friends, our buddies, we kind of hang together. When they hear about these kinds of things happening to us, they say, 'Why do you take it? You need to push back. You need to challenge. You need to ask them  for their identification.'"" And here's what the boys have been taught to tell them: ""We know that you can do that, but please do not do that while we're in the car because the consequences for you are significantly different than the consequences for us."" And so as a grandparent,  what do I tell my grandsons? How do I keep them safe? How do I keep them alive? As a result of this, people have come to me and said, ""Jim, are you angry?"" And my response to that is this: ""I don't have the luxury of being angry, and I also know the consequences  of being enraged."" So therefore, the only thing that I can do is take my collective intellect and my energy and my ideas and my experiences and dedicate myself to challenge,  at any point in time, anything that looks  like it might be racist. So the first thing I have  to do is to educate, the second thing I have to do  is to unveil racism, and the last thing I need to do is do everything within my power to eradicate racism in my lifetime by any means necessary. The second thing I do is this: I want to appeal to Americans. I want to appeal to their humanity, to their dignity, to their civic pride and ownership to be able to not react to these  heinous crimes in an adverse manner. But instead, to elevate your level of societal knowledge, your level of societal awareness and societal consciousness to then collectively come together, all of us come together, to make sure that we speak out against and we challenge any kind of insanity, any kind of insanity that makes it  okay to kill unarmed people, regardless of their ethnicity, regardless of their race, regardless of their diversity makeup. We have to challenge that. It doesn't make any sense. The only way I think we can do that is through a collective. We need to have black and white  and Asian and Hispanic just to step forward and say, ""We are not going to accept  that kind of behavior anymore."""	身為非裔美國人，我在18歲時加入美國空軍。加入後，我被分到位於芒廷霍姆的空軍基地，我隸屬於一個空警中隊。一到達當地，我有件首要之務，就是要找到一間公寓，好把太太和剛出生的寶寶米蘭妮接來，和我一起住在愛達荷州。 我立刻到人事辦公室，向承辦人員尋問這件事，他們說：「要在愛德荷州蒙的芒廷霍姆找間公寓，不會有問題。這裡的人喜歡我們。因為他們知道只要是空軍，要租他們的公寓，總能保證他們收得到房租。」這點挺重要的。他說，「這裡有張名單，你可以打電話去問，你可以從這裡面選擇想住的公寓。」就這樣，我拿到了名單，打了電話。一位女士接起電話，我告訴她自己想要找怎樣的住處。她說：「很高興接到你的電話，現在有4、5間公寓是空的。您需要一房還是兩房的公寓？我們別在電話裡談了，你直接過來挑吧。我們就可以當場簽約，你馬上就能拿到鑰匙，這樣很快就能把家人接過來了。」 我覺得好興奮。我跳上車子，開到鎮上，敲敲門。當我敲著門，有位女士走到門邊，她看著我，問我：「有什麼需要幫忙的嗎？」我說：「是的，我就是打來尋問公寓的人。我來這裡看房子。」她說，「喔。很不好意思，我先生已經把那些房子租出去了，但卻沒告訴我。」我問她：「你是說，你先生在1小時內租出去5間公寓？」她沒回答我，只是說：「你可以留下連絡電話，等我們有空房的時候，會再通知你。」毫無疑問，我沒有接到她的電話。我也沒有接過其它人的回應，那些他們給我的名單上的人，說我可以從他們租到公寓。 這樣的結果，我感受到被大家排擠，我回到基地，和中隊指揮官談這件事，指揮官的名字是麥克道， 麥克道少校。我說：「麥克道少校，我需要您的協助。」我告訴他事情的經過，他如此回答。他說：「詹姆士，我很願意幫你忙。但問題是：我們無法強迫屋主租房子給他們不喜歡的房客。而且，我們和這個社區的居民關係很好，我們真的不想危害這種關係。」他說：「或許你能這麼辦：把家人留在家鄉，你知道你有30天的休假吧！每一年，你可以回去看你的家人，待在家裡30天後回來。」 不用說，我不同意這個辦法。離開他後，我回到人事部，找了事務員談話，他說：「吉姆，我有一個解決的方法。有一名空軍將要離開，他有一個活動屋拖車。如果你注意到在蒙恩荷馬市，那裡有活動屋拖車停車場，許多活動屋拖車停在那裡。你可以買下他的活動屋拖車，價格很可能非常便宜，因為他想要盡快離開這裏。那也就解決了你的問題，那就是你的問題的解決方法。」我就立刻跳進我的車子，開到市區，我看到那輛活動屋拖車——那是一個小活動屋拖車，但是在那個情況下，我想那是我能做的最佳選擇。我就買了那個活動屋拖車。然後我問他：「我可以將拖車留在這裡嗎？那就可以解決我的所有問題，我不用再去找另一個拖車停車場。」他說：「我必須先問這裡的管理室，才能確定可不可以。」我回到基地，他打電話給我說，管理室的人說：「不行，你不可以將拖車留在這裡，因為那個位置我們已經答應保留給別人了。」我覺得很奇怪，因為那裡還有幾個空位，怎麼那麼巧他會保留那個位置給別人。 所以，我就——他接著說，「吉姆，你不要擔心，因為拖車停車場多的是。」我列出所有拖車停車場的清單。我去了一個又一個。到處都是閉門羹，和我在找公寓時遇到的情形一樣。結果，他們給我的答覆，除了說他們沒有空位以外，有個人說：「吉姆，我們不能租給你的理由是我們已經有一個黑人家庭在這個拖車停車場。」他說：「不是我反對，因為我喜歡你們黑人。」（笑聲）我也是笑著。他說：「問題是：如果我讓你搬進來，其他的租客會搬出去。我無法承擔那樣的損失。」他說：「我無法租給你。」 即使那讓我很喪氣，我也沒有放棄。我繼續找，結果在蒙恩荷馬市最外圍的地區，找到一個小小的拖車停車場。那是一個真的很小的拖車停車場。裡面沒有鋪設好的道路，也沒有水泥的停車位地基。在拖車停車位之間也沒有圍籬。那裡沒有洗衣設備。但是我在那時的結論是我沒有其他停車位置的選擇：於是我打電話給太太說，「我們一定要好好地住得這裡。」我們搬進去那裏。我們在愛德荷州蒙恩荷馬市有了自己的房子。當然，最後，我們在那裡安頓下來。 四年後，我接到通知要我從愛德荷州蒙恩荷馬市調到一個在拉布拉多區鵝港的地方。我們不要談那裡。那是另一個好地方。（笑聲）我那時的挑戰是將我的家人從愛德荷州蒙恩荷馬市搬到賓夕法尼亞州的沙龍市。（搬家）不是問題，我們那時剛買了一輛新車。我母親打電話來說她會乘飛機過來。她將和我們一起開車過去，她會幫我們照顧孩子。所以她過來了，她和愛麗絲為這個旅程準備了很多食物。 那天清晨，我們大約五點啟程。我們的旅途很快樂，有很愉快的談話。在六點半或七點左右，我們有點累了。我們說：「要不我們找一個汽車旅館休息一晚，明天一大早再出發吧？」我們在開車時看到路邊有許多汽車旅館。我們看到一個，它有一個閃亮的字招牌上寫，「空房，空房，空房。」我們停下來進去。他們在停車場，我自己進去。當我走進去時，那位女士正好和其他一些人簽了約，我後面也來了其他人。我走向櫃台，她說，「有什麽可以幫到你？」我說，「我的家人需要一個房間。」她說，「很抱歉，我剛剛出租了最後一個房間。我們到明天早上都不會有空房。」她說，「但是你再繼續開大約一小時，或者45分鐘，那裡有另一個拖車停車場。」我說，「好，但是你們的“空房”的招牌仍然在閃。」她說，「喔，我忘了。」她就伸手過去把那個招牌關掉。她看著我，我看著她。那裡還有其他人。她看了他們一眼。沒有人說話。我知道她的意思，所以我就離開了，走到停車場。我告訴我母親、我太太和梅蘭妮說，「看起來今晚我們必須要再開遠一點才能休息。」所以我們就繼續開。當我們正要離開停車場，你猜怎麼了？那個招牌又開了。它閃著，「空房，空房，空房。」我們後來找到了一個不錯的地方。雖然不是我們的首選，但是至少那裡很安全，也乾淨。那晚我們睡得很好。 這個部分裡，重要的是我們所經歷的遭遇都一樣，從愛德荷州一路到賓夕法尼亞州。我們在旅館，汽車旅館和餐廳都遭到拒絕。但我們終於到了賓夕法尼亞州。我們將家人安頓好了。大家都很高興看到孩子。我跳上飛機去到拉布拉多區的鵝灣。那是另一個故事了，對嗎？（笑聲） 現在，53年後，我有九個孫子，兩個曾孫。五個孫子是男孩。他們有碩士，博士，大學學位，其中一個是醫學院的，其中有兩個是追隨社會潮流。他們幾乎快成功了，但就差一點點。（笑聲）我有一個孫子在大學已經讀了八年了。（笑聲）他還沒有拿到學位，但他想成為一個喜劇演員。我們一直要他繼續留在學校。因為你無法知道，只是因為你在家裡很搞笑，你也不一定可成為喜劇演員，對嗎？（笑聲）重要的是，他們都是好孩子 ——沒有人吸毒，沒有人高中懷孕，沒有人犯罪。 在這個背景下，有一天我坐在起居室裡看電視，他們在談論弗格森事件，和其他最近發生的喧囂。突然，一個新聞評論員出現在螢幕上，她說：「在過去的三個月，有八位沒有武器的美國黑人男子被警察、白人屋主，或白人所殺害。」那個時候，似乎有某種理由，它大大地震撼了我。我說：「那是什麼？真是瘋了。是什麼樣的憎恨可以讓人做這樣的事？」 正好那時，我的一個孫子打電話來。他說：「祖父，你聽到電視報導裡說的嗎？」我說：「是的，我聽到了。」他說：「我真的很困惑。我們就只是做我們一般做的事，好像身為黑人開車，身為黑人走路，身為黑人講話，就是危險。我們該做什麼呢？我們只是做你教我們做的。當我們被警察停下來時，我們將雙手放在方向盤的12點鐘位置。如果他們要我們的身分證明，我們告訴他們：「我要慢慢的伸手到手套箱裡拿我的身份證明。」當我們從車裡被拉出來搜身，當趴在地上被搜身時，當我們的行李箱被打開搜查時，我們不能推拒，也不能挑戰，因為我們知道，你告訴過我們，「絕對不要對抗警察。等事情過去後，再打電話給我們，我們會去做抗爭。」 他說：「但這是我最不能理解的：我們的白人朋友，我們的哥兒們，我們都一起混。當聽到我們遇到這種事情時，他們說：「你為什麼要忍受這種待遇呢？你要推拒，你要對抗。你要向他們要他們的身份證明。」我教孩子們這樣回答他們的白人朋友：「要知道你們可以如此做，但是當我們在車子裡的時候，請你們不要這樣做。因為你可能遇到的後果和我們可能遇到的大大不同。」 所以，作為一個祖父，我如何給孫子們一個交代？我如何保護他們的安全？我如何讓他們安然無恙？因爲這個事件，一些人來找我，問我：「吉姆，你生氣嗎？」我的回答是：「我沒有可以生氣的這份奢侈，我還知道生氣的后果會是什麼。」 因此，我唯一能做的就是我以集體的智慧、我的精力、理念和經驗，奉獻自己去抗爭那些任何時候，任何可能是種族歧視的案件。首先我要做的是教育，其次是我必須指出種族歧視，最後一件事是我必須做的是我要竭盡所能，以任何可行的手段，在此生消滅種族歧視。 第二件事我做的事：我要呼籲美國人。我要向他們的人性，他們的尊嚴，他們的公民自尊和公民主權呼籲請他們不要對這些令人髮指的罪行有不利的反應。而是，提升你的社會知識的水準，你的社會意識和社會良知的水準。然後，我們一起，所有我們一起，確定我們站出來反對和挑戰任何形式的瘋狂行為，那些認為可以殺害沒有武器的人的瘋狂行為，無論他們是哪個族群，無論他們是那個種族，無論他們不同的特徵為何。 我們必須向那些挑戰。那些完全不合理智。我想，我們唯一能做的，就是透過大家一起來，我們需要有黑人，白人，亞洲人和西班牙裔，挺身而出，並且說，「我們不再接受這樣的行為。」
