Talk	en	zh-tw
james_b_glattfelder_who_controls_the_world	"""When the crisis came, the serious limitations of existing economic and financial models immediately became apparent."" ""There is also a strong belief, which I share, that bad or oversimplistic and overconfident economics helped create the crisis."" Now, you've probably all heard of similar criticism coming from people who are skeptical of capitalism. But this is different. This is coming from the heart of finance. The first quote is from Jean-Claude Trichet when he was governor of the European Central Bank. The second quote is from the head of the UK Financial Services Authority. Are these people implying that we don't understand the economic systems that drive our modern societies? It gets worse. ""We spend billions of dollars trying to understand the origins of the universe, while we still don't understand the conditions for a stable society, a functioning economy, or peace."" What's happening here? How can this be possible? Do we really understand more about the fabric of reality than we do about the fabric which emerges from our human interactions? Unfortunately, the answer is yes. But there's an intriguing solution which is coming from what is known as the science of complexity. To explain what this means and what this thing is, please let me quickly take a couple of steps back. I ended up in physics by accident. It was a random encounter when I was young, and since then, I've often wondered about the amazing success of physics in describing the reality we wake up in every day. In a nutshell, you can think of physics as follows. So you take a chunk of reality you want to understand and you translate it into mathematics. You encode it into equations. Then, predictions can be made and tested. We're actually really lucky that this works, because no one really knows why the thoughts in our heads should actually relate to the fundamental workings of the universe. Despite the success, physics has its limits. As Dirk Helbing pointed out in the last quote, we don't really understand the complexity that relates to us, that surrounds us. This paradox is what got me interested in complex systems. So these are systems which are made up of many interconnected or interacting parts: swarms of birds or fish, ant colonies, ecosystems, brains, financial markets. These are just a few examples. Interestingly, complex systems are very hard to map into mathematical equations, so the usual physics approach doesn't really work here. So what do we know about complex systems? Well, it turns out that what looks like complex behavior from the outside is actually the result of a few simple rules of interaction. This means you can forget about the equations and just start to understand the system by looking at the interactions, so you can actually forget about the equations and you just start to look at the interactions. And it gets even better, because most complex systems have this amazing property called emergence. So this means that the system as a whole suddenly starts to show a behavior which cannot be understood or predicted by looking at the components of the system. So the whole is literally more than the sum of its parts. And all of this also means that you can forget about the individual parts of the system, how complex they are. So if it's a cell or a termite or a bird, you just focus on the rules of interaction. As a result, networks are ideal representations of complex systems. The nodes in the network are the system's components, and the links are given by the interactions. So what equations are for physics, complex networks are for the study of complex systems. This approach has been very successfully applied to many complex systems in physics, biology, computer science, the social sciences, but what about economics? Where are economic networks? This is a surprising and prominent gap in the literature. The study we published last year, called ""The Network of Global Corporate Control,"" was the first extensive analysis of economic networks. The study went viral on the Internet and it attracted a lot of attention from the international media. This is quite remarkable, because, again, why did no one look at this before? Similar data has been around for quite some time. What we looked at in detail was ownership networks. So here the nodes are companies, people, governments, foundations, etc. And the links represent the shareholding relations, so shareholder A has x percent of the shares in company B. And we also assign a value to the company given by the operating revenue. So ownership networks reveal the patterns of shareholding relations. In this little example, you can see a few financial institutions with some of the many links highlighted. Now, you may think that no one looked at this before because ownership networks are really, really boring to study. Well, as ownership is related to control, as I shall explain later, looking at ownership networks actually can give you answers to questions like, who are the key players? How are they organized? Are they isolated? Are they interconnected? And what is the overall distribution of control? In other words, who controls the world? I think this is an interesting question. And it has implications for systemic risk. This is a measure of how vulnerable a system is overall. A high degree of interconnectivity can be bad for stability, because then the stress can spread through the system like an epidemic. Scientists have sometimes criticized economists who believe ideas and concepts are more important than empirical data, because a foundational guideline in science is: Let the data speak. OK. Let's do that. So we started with a database containing 13 million ownership relations from 2007. This is a lot of data, and because we wanted to find out ""who rules the world,"" we decided to focus on transnational corporations, or ""TNCs,"" for short. These are companies that operate in more than one country, and we found 43,000. In the next step, we built the network around these companies, so we took all the TNCs' shareholders, and the shareholders' shareholders, etc., all the way upstream, and we did the same downstream, and ended up with a network containing 600,000 nodes and one million links. This is the TNC network which we analyzed. And it turns out to be structured as follows. So you have a periphery and a center which contains about 75 percent of all the players, and in the center, there's this tiny but dominant core which is made up of highly interconnected companies. To give you a better picture, think about a metropolitan area. So you have the suburbs and the periphery, you have a center, like a financial district, then the core will be something like the tallest high-rise building in the center. And we already see signs of organization going on here. 36 percent of the TNCs are in the core only, but they make up 95 percent of the total operating revenue of all TNCs. OK, so now we analyzed the structure, so how does this relate to the control? Well, ownership gives voting rights to shareholders. This is the normal notion of control. And there are different models which allow you to compute the control you get from ownership. If you have more than 50 percent of the shares in a company, you get control, but usually, it depends on the relative distribution of shares. And the network really matters. About 10 years ago, Mr. Tronchetti Provera had ownership and control in a small company, which had ownership and control in a bigger company. You get the idea. This ended up giving him control in Telecom Italia with a leverage of 26. So this means that, with each euro he invested, he was able to move 26 euros of market value through the chain of ownership relations. Now what we actually computed in our study was the control over the TNCs' value. This allowed us to assign a degree of influence to each shareholder. This is very much in the sense of Max Weber's idea of potential power, which is the probability of imposing one's own will despite the opposition of others. If you want to compute the flow in an ownership network, this is what you have to do. It's actually not that hard to understand. Let me explain by giving you this analogy. So think about water flowing in pipes, where the pipes have different thickness. So similarly, the control is flowing in the ownership networks and is accumulating at the nodes. So what did we find after computing all this network control? Well, it turns out that the 737 top shareholders have the potential to collectively control 80 percent of the TNCs' value. Now remember, we started out with 600,000 nodes, so these 737 top players make up a bit more than 0.1 percent. They're mostly financial institutions in the US and the UK. And it gets even more extreme. There are 146 top players in the core, and they together have the potential to collectively control 40 percent of the TNCs' value. What should you take home from all of this? Well, the high degree of control you saw is very extreme by any standard. The high degree of interconnectivity of the top players in the core could pose a significant systemic risk to the global economy. And we could easily reproduce the TNC network with a few simple rules. This means that its structure is probably the result of self-organization. It's an emergent property which depends on the rules of interaction in the system, so it's probably not the result of a top-down approach like a global conspiracy. Our study ""is an impression of the moon's surface. It's not a street map."" So you should take the exact numbers in our study with a grain of salt, yet it ""gave us a tantalizing glimpse of a brave new world of finance."" We hope to have opened the door for more such research in this direction, so the remaining unknown terrain will be charted in the future. And this is slowly starting. We're seeing the emergence of long-term and highly-funded programs which aim at understanding our networked world from a complexity point of view. But this journey has only just begun, so we will have to wait before we see the first results. Now there is still a big problem, in my opinion. Ideas relating to finance, economics, politics, society, are very often tainted by people's personal ideologies. I really hope that this complexity perspective allows for some common ground to be found. It would be really great if it has the power to help end the gridlock created by conflicting ideas, which appears to be paralyzing our globalized world. Reality is so complex, we need to move away from dogma. But this is just my own personal ideology. Thank you. (Applause)"	"""當危機來臨時現有的經濟體系和金融模型嚴重的侷限性會馬上顯露出來。""""社會上還有一種強烈的共識，我在這裡和各位分享就是錯誤的或是過於簡化和過度自信的經濟造就了這場危機。"" 你們或多或少聽過類似的評論特別是從質疑資本主義者的口中聽到但我剛才所說的是不一樣的我剛才所說的，是發自金融體系的核心第一句話是來自尚．克勞德特里謝 (Jean-Claude Trichet)當他還是歐洲中央銀行總裁時所說的第二句話是來自英國金融管理局的局長這些人是在暗示我們不了解推動現代社會的經濟制度嗎?情況越來越糟""我們花數十億美元試著去了解宇宙的起源但我們仍然不了解一個穩定的社會、正常運作的經濟或是和平所需要的條件 到底發生了甚麼事? 怎會這樣呢?我們對於現實本質的了解會比我們對於人類的互動所交織而成的社會了解的更多嗎?很不幸的，答案是肯定的但是，現在有個耐人尋味的解決方案從所謂的複雜性科學衍生出來 為了說明這是什麼東西還有這代表甚麼意思請容許我先把時間倒回幾步在偶然之下，我選擇了物理這條路這是在我年輕時的一個巧合從那時候開始，我就時常在想關於物理驚人的成就它描述了我們每天生活的現實世界運作的方式簡單來說，你可以把物理想像成以下這樣子你拿走了一塊你想要了解的現實世界然後你用數學來詮釋它你將它轉換成方程式如此，你可以預期結果並且測試它我們真的很幸運這樣的方式是可行的因為沒有人真正了解我們腦中的想法實際上和宇宙運行的基本法則是有關聯的儘管有如此的成就物理仍然有它的侷限性如同德克．海爾賓在剛剛最後一段引言所指出的(Dirk Helbing瑞士一名物理學和社會學家)我們並不是真的了解和我們有關並且環繞著在我們的複雜性這個悖論讓我對於這樣複雜系統產生了興趣以下這些系統是由許多部分相互關聯和相互作用所引起的一整群的鳥或是魚、螞蟻的地盤生態系統、腦、金融市場這些其中只是一小部分的例子很有趣的是，要將複雜系統用數學方程式描繪出來是非常困難的所以慣用的物理方法在這裡無用武之地 我們對於複雜系統所知多少?實際上，我們在複雜行為的外表所看到的其實就是它那少數且簡單的規則互動的結果這代表你可以忘掉那些方程式然後從觀察它的互動行為開始了解這系統所以你真的可以不用再管那些方程式了你只要開始觀察那些互動行為而這讓一切變得更順利因為絕大多數的複雜系統都有一個了不起的特性，叫做突現性 (Emergence)這代表的是一整個系統會突然地展現出一種現象而這個現象是無法被了解或預測的如果你只注意這整個系統的一小部分的話所以系統的整體，實際上比它所有部分的總合還要多而這也意味著，你可以不管系統那些個別的部分還有它們的複雜性假設這個系統是個細胞、是白蟻或是一隻鳥你只要專注在它們互動的規則上 結論就是，網絡是代表複雜系統最理想的代表詞每個網絡的節點就像是系統的零件一樣而互動就是結點之間的連接線方程式之於物理學就像複雜網絡之於複雜系統一樣 這個方法已經被成功的應用在許多的複雜系統，像是物理學、生物學資訊工程學、社會科學但經濟學呢?經濟學的網絡在哪?在相關文獻中，這是一個驚人且顯而易見的鴻溝我們在去年發表的一篇研究叫做 ""全球企業控制權的網絡""是第一個大規模分析經濟網絡的研究這個研究在網路上像病毒般的傳播出去並吸引了非常多國際媒體的目光這是很值得關注的，因為再一次地為什麼之前從來沒有人關注過這件事?類似的資料在很久以前就唾手可得了 我們研究的是，所有權網絡的詳細訊息在這圖上，結點代表公司行號、人、政府機關基金會等等而連接線代表的是股權關係如此來看，股東 A 擁有公司 B 百分之 X 的股份同時我們也將公司的價值標註在上面基於公司營業收入來訂定的所以，所有權網絡展現出一種股東關係的模式在這個小小的範例中，你們可以看到少量的金融機構和很多被凸顯出來的連接線 現在你可能想，以前從來沒有人看過這個因為所有權網絡研究起來非常非常無聊好吧，當所有權和控制權做出關聯後這我在稍後會做出解釋仔細看所有權網絡實際上這可以讓以下這類問題的答案呼之欲出誰是這裏面的關鍵成員?它們是如何組織起來的? 它們是各自獨立的嗎?它們是互相連接的嗎?還有，整體的控制權分配是如何?換句話說，誰掌控了世界?我認為這是一個很有趣的問題 並且涉及到系統性的風險這是展示一個系統在整體脆弱程度的衡量方式一個高度的互連接性可能對穩定性有不良影響因為壓力會透過系統蔓延出去如同瘟疫一般 科學家有時會批評經濟學家因為經濟學家相信，概念和學說比實證數據還要來得重要因為在科學中的一個基準法則，就是讓數據說話。沒問題，讓我們試試看吧 所以我們開始建立一個資料庫，含蓋自 2007 年以來，一千三百萬個所有權關係這是非常多筆的資料，而因為我們想要找尋出誰統治這個世界我們決定專注在跨國企業上簡寫就是TNC這些企業運營的範圍多於一個國家然後我們找出了四萬三千個這樣的企業下一步，我們勾勒出這些企業的網絡圖所以我們找出了所以TNC的股東以及股東的股東等等追朔到最上游，同時也循著下游追蹤最後的結果是一個包含六十萬個節點的網絡圖還有一百萬個連結線這是我們所分析出的TNC網絡 而這引領出的結構如下你們看到這裡有個外圍區和一個中央區在這範圍包含了百分之七十五的成員而在這個中央區裡面，有個微小但是擁有主導權的核心這核心是由高度內部連接的企業所組成的再給你們一個更好的示範圖想像一下大都會區域你們會看到郊區和外圍地區你們會看到一個中央區像是金融中心這樣的地方而核心就會像是在中央區內高聳入雲的那棟建築而我們已經看到組織正在往這裡移動的跡象只有百分之三十六的TNC在這個核心中但它們卻創造出全部TNC百分之九十五的總營業收入 現在，我們來分析這個結構這個和控制權有甚麼關係呢?實際上，所有權讓股東們擁有投票的權力這是對控制權最基本的概念而這裡有不同的模型讓你來計算你從所有權中，可以獲得的控制權如果你擁有一間公司超過百分之五十的股份時你就獲得了控制權但這通常有賴於股份的相對分布因此，網絡在此占了一席之地大約十年前，Tronchetti Provera先生 (Pirelli集團負責人)擁有一間小公司的所有權和控制權而這小公司擁有一間較大的公司的所有權和控制權你們大概猜到了到最後，這讓他擁有了義大利電信的控制權而他的財務槓桿指數是廿六這代表的意涵是，他每投資一塊歐元他就可以操控等同市場價值26歐元的資金這是經由所有權關係的連鎖反應的結果 現在，我們在我們的研究中實際上所計算的就是所有TNC價值的控制權這讓我們可以計算出一個值，來代表每位股東的影響程度這樣的概念就像是Max Weber 所提出的潛在力量(現代社會學和公共行政學重要創始人之一)也就是一個人要將自己的意念強加在反對者身上的可能向 如果你想要計算出一個所有權網絡中的流動性這就是你所要做的事實際上，要了解它不是那麼難讓我用一個類比的方式來解釋想像一下，水在許多水管中流動這些水管的粗細都不同同樣地，控制權就是所有權網絡中的流水一樣而且這會在每個節點中不斷累積所以，我們在計算這些網絡控制權後發現了甚麼?實際上，這展示出排名前七百卅七個的股東們擁有潛在的共同控制權掌控百分之八十的TNC總價值現在，請記住，我們是從六十萬個節點中開始的所以這排名前七百卅七個成員大概只比百分之零點一還要多出一點點它們絕大多數是位於美國和英國的金融機構而更極端的是在核心中有一百四十六個成員它們擁有的潛在共同控制權是百分之四十的TNC總價值 你們從這之中應該帶回家裡的是你們所看到的，高控制程度對於各種標準來看都是非常極端的高度的內部連接性在核心中的頂尖成員來說可以對全球經濟造成很顯著的系統性風險同時，我們可以很輕易地複製TNC網絡只要用幾個簡單的規則這代表的是，這個網絡很有可能是自我組織的結果這是一個很危急的產物，因為它依靠的是系統內部互動的規則所以，它很可能不是上而下法 (top-down approach)的結果如同全球性陰謀一樣 我們的研究 ""是對月球表面的驚鴻一瞥不是細如街景地圖一般""所以你們應該對我們研究中幾個確切的數字持懷疑的態度雖然它 ""讓財金這個勇敢的新世界給了我們一個誘人的一瞥""我們希望能讓這類型的研究敞開大門如此，剩餘的那些未知大陸才能夠在未來被勾勒出來而這發生得很慢我們尋找的是長期且被高度投資的計畫的出現，針對的是從複雜的觀點來瞭解我們的網絡世界但這個旅程才剛啟程所以，在我們看到第一個結果之前，我們必須等待 現在，在我看來，仍然還有個很大的問題關於財務、經濟、政治社會的想法很多都被汙染了人們的自我意識形態造成這種現象我真心希望這樣充滿複雜性的觀點能夠找到一些共同點如果它擁有打破因為觀念衝突所造成的僵局的力量，那就真的是太棒了這樣的僵局會癱瘓我們正在全球化的世界現實是非常複雜的我們必須拋下我們心中的教條但這只是我自己的意識形態 謝謝你們 (掌聲)"
