Talk	en	zh-tw
jamie_drummond_how_to_set_goals_for_the_world	"So let me start by taking you back, back into the mists of your memory to perhaps the most anticipated year in your life, but certainly the most anticipated year in all human history: the year 2000. Remember that? Y2K, the dotcom bubble, stressing about whose party you're going to go to as the clock strikes midnight, before the champagne goes flat, and then there's that inchoate yearning that was felt, I think, by many, that the millennium, that the year 2000, should mean more, more than just a two and some zeroes. Well, amazingly, for once, our world leaders actually lived up to that millennium moment and back in 2000 agreed to some pretty extraordinary stuff: visionary, measurable, long-term targets called the Millennium Development Goals. Now, I'm sure you all keep a copy of the goals under your pillow, or by the bedside table, but just in case you don't, and your memory needs some jogging, the deal agreed then goes like this: developing countries promised to at least halve extreme poverty, hunger and deaths from disease, alongside some other targets, by 2015, and developed nations promised to help them get that done by dropping debts, increasing smart aid, and trade reform. Well, we're approaching 2015, so we'd better assess, how are we doing on these goals? But we've also got to decide, do we like such global goals? Some people don't. And if we like them, we've got to decide what we want to do on these goals going forward. What does the world want to do together? We've got to decide a process by which we decide. Well, I definitely think these goals are worth building on and seeing through, and here's just a few reasons why. Incredible partnerships between the private sector, political leaders, philanthropists and amazing grassroots activists across the developing world, but also 250,000 people marched in the streets of Edinburgh outside this very building for Make Poverty History. All together, they achieved these results: increased the number of people on anti-retrovirals, life-saving anti-AIDS drugs; nearly halved deaths from malaria; vaccinated so many that 5.4 million lives will be saved. And combined, this is going to result in two million fewer children dying every year, last year, than in the year 2000. That's 5,000 fewer kids dying every day, ten times you lot not dead every day, because of all of these partnerships. So I think this is amazing living proof of progress that more people should know about, but the challenge of communicating this kind of good news is probably the subject of a different TEDTalk. Anyway, for now, anyone involved in getting these results, thank you. I think this proved these goals are worth it. But there's still a lot of unfinished business. Still, 7.6 million children die every year of preventable, treatable diseases, and 178 million kids are malnourished to the point of stunting, a horrible term which means physical and cognitive lifelong impairment. So there's plainly a lot more to do on the goals we've got. But then, a lot of people think there are things that should have been in the original package that weren't agreed back then that should now be included, like sustainable development targets, natural resource governance targets, access to opportunity, to knowledge, equity, fighting corruption. All of this is measurable and could be in the new goals. But the key thing here is, what do you think should be in the new goals? What do you want? Are you annoyed that I didn't talk about gender equality or education? Should those be in the new package of goals? And quite frankly, that's a good question, but there's going to be some tough tradeoffs and choices here, so you want to hope that the process by which the world decides these new goals is going to be legitimate, right? Well, as we gather here in Edinburgh, technocrats appointed by the U.N. and certain governments, with the best intentions, are busying themselves designing a new package of goals, and currently they're doing that through pretty much the same old late-20th-century, top-down, elite, closed process. But, of course, since then, the Web and mobile telephony, along with ubiquitous reality TV formats have spread all around the world. So what we'd like to propose is that we use them to involve people from all around the world in an historic first: the world's first truly global poll and consultation, where everyone everywhere has an equal voice for the very first time. I mean, wouldn't it be a huge historic missed opportunity not to do this, given that we can? There's hundreds of billions of your aid dollars at stake, tens of millions of lives, or deaths, at stake, and, I'd argue, the security and future of you and your family is also at stake. So, if you're with me, I'd say there's three essential steps in this crowdsourcing campaign: collecting, connecting and committing. So first of all, we've got to ground this campaign in core polling data. Let's go into every country that will let us in, ask 1,001 people what they want the new goals to be, making special efforts to reach the poorest, those without access to modern technology, and let's make sure that their views are at the center of the goals going forward. Then, we've got to commission a baseline survey to make sure we can monitor and progress the goals going forward. The original goals didn't really have good baseline survey data, and we're going to need the help of big data through all of this process to make sure we can really monitor the progress. And then we've got to connect with the big crowd. Now here, we see the role for an unprecedented coalition of social media giants and upstarts, telecoms companies, reality TV show formats, gaming companies, telecoms, all of them together in kind of their ""We Are The World"" moment. Could they come together and help the Millennium Development Goals get rebranded into the Millennial Generation's Goals? And if just five percent of the five billion plus who are currently connected made a comment, and that comment turned into a commitment, we could crowdsource a force of 300 million people around the world to help see these goals through. If we have this collected data, and this connected crowd, based upon our experience of campaigning and getting world leaders to commit, I think world leaders will commit to most of the crowdsourced recommendations. But the question really is, through this process will we all have become committed? And if we are, are we ready to iterate, monitor and provide feedback, make sure these promises are really delivering results? Well, there's some fantastic examples here to scale up, mostly piloted within Africa, actually. There's Open Data Kenya, which geocodes and crowdsources information about where projects are, are they delivering results. Often, they're not in the right place. And Ushahidi, which means ""witness"" in Swahili, which geocodes and crowdsources information in complex emergencies to help target responses. This is some of the most exciting stuff in development and democracy, where citizens on the edge of a network are helping to force open the process to make sure that the big global aid promises and vague stuff up at the top really delivers for people at a grassroots level and inverts that pyramid. This openness, this forcing openness, is key, and if it wasn't entirely transparent already, I should be open: I've got a completely transparent agenda. Long-term trends suggest that this century is going to be a tough place to live, with population increases, consumption patterns increasing, and conflict over scarce natural resources. And look at the state of global politics today. Look at the Rio Earth Summit that happened just last week, or the Mexican G20, also last week. Both, if we're honest, a bust. Our world leaders, our global politics, currently can't get it done. They need our help. They need the cavalry, and the cavalry's not going to come from Mars. It's got to come from us, and I see this process of deciding democratically in a bottom-up fashion what the world wants to work on together as one vital means by which we can crowdsource the force to really build that constituency that's going to reinvigorate global governance in the 21st century. I started in 2000. Let me finish in 2030. Many people made fun of a big campaign a few years ago we had called Make Poverty History. It was a naive thought in many people's minds, and it's true, it was just a t-shirt slogan that worked for the moment. But look. The empirical condition of living under a dollar and 25 is trending down, and look where it gets to by 2030. It's getting near zero. Now sure, progress in China and India and poverty reduction there was key to that, but recently also in Africa, poverty rates are being reduced. It will get harder as we get towards zero, as the poor will be increasingly located in post-conflict, fragile states, or maybe in middle income states where they don't really care about the marginalized. But I'm confident, with the right kind of political campaigning and creative and technological innovation combined working together more and more as one, I think we can get this and other goals done. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause) Chris Anderson: Jamie, here's the puzzle to me. If there was an incident today where a hundred kids died in some tragedy or where, say, a hundred kids were kidnapped and then rescued by special forces, I mean, it would be all over the news for a week, right? You just put up, just as one of your numbers there, that 5,000 — is that the number? Jamie Drummond: Fewer children every day. CA: Five thousand fewer children dying every day. I mean, it dwarfs, dwarfs everything that is actually on our news agenda, and it's invisible. This must drive you crazy. JD: It does, and we're having a huge debate in this country about aid levels, for example, and aid alone is not the whole solution. Nobody thinks it is. But, you know, if people saw the results of this smart aid, I mean, they'd be going crazy for it. I wish the 250,000 people who really did march outside this very building knew these results. Right now they don't, and it would be great to find a way to better communicate it, because we have not. Creatively, we've failed to communicate this success so far. If those kinds of efforts just could multiply their voice and amplify it at the key moments, I know for a fact we'd get better policy. The Mexican G20 need not have been a bust. Rio, if anyone cares about the environment, need not have been a bust, okay? But these conferences are going on, and I know people get skeptical and cynical about the big global summits and the promises and their never being kept, but actually, the bits that are, are making a difference, and what the politicians need is more permission from the public. CA: But you haven't fully worked out the Web mechanisms, etc. by which this might happen. I mean, if the people here who've had experience using open platforms, you're interested to talk with them this week and try to take this forward. JD: Absolutely. CA: All right, well I must say, if this conference led in some way to advancing that idea, that's a huge idea, and if you carry that forward, that is really awesome, so thank you. JD: I'd love your help. CA: Thank you, thank you. (Applause)"	讓我們一起回想回到你們記憶的深處也許是在你們生命中最期待的一年也可能是整個人類歷史上備受期待的一年就是西元2000年，記得嗎?千禧年、網路泡沫化煩惱著，在香檳走味之前跨年倒數時分到底該參加誰的派對?還有一些未曾深思的渴望?對很多人來說，千禧年西元2000年，應該具有更多意義不只是一個2跟幾個0 令人驚訝的，那些世界領袖們難能可貴，在千禧年那時刻在2000年同意了一些非常特殊的事情具有遠見的、可衡量的、長期的目標所謂的（聯合國）千年發展目標 我很確定你們都有一份不是在你的枕頭下，就是在床頭櫃上但萬一沒有而你需要被提醒一下這項協議就是：發展中國家承諾戮力於幾項目標，包括要在2015年前，將極端貧窮、飢餓與因疾病造成的死亡減少一半已開發國家承諾要來協助他們達到這個目標透過勾銷債權提升正確實惠的協助和貿易改革等手段 眼看2015年迫在眉睫我們應該來評估一下，這些目標的進展如何我們也該評斷，我們真的接受這些目標嗎?有些人不接受。如果我們認同，我們應該決定接下來我們應該怎麼執行這些目標?究竟整個世界想要做到的又是甚麼?我們現在應該制定一個方法，來找出這個世界要什麼 我當然認為這些目標值得繼續執行和完成這裡有一些理由私人機構、政治領袖和慈善家之間不可思議的攜手合作還有各發展中國家的草根積極社運人士還有二十五萬人在街頭遊行就在愛丁堡，就在這棟建築外面提倡「讓貧窮走入歷史」 大家一起達成了這些結果增加抗逆轉過濾性病毒的人數增加救命的抗愛滋藥物死於瘧疾的人數減半推廣疫苗注射使得5百40萬條生命免於死亡這些努力加在一起每一年可以挽救兩百萬個孩童的性命去年，相較於2000年每日死亡的孩童數目少了5千人是在座聽眾人數的十倍都是因為這些人的合作所以我覺得這些了不起的活生生的進步的證據應該讓更多人知道但是如何傳播這些好成績可能是不同的TED Talk的主題無論如何，現在，對投身這些目標促進這些結果產生的人們我要說：謝謝你們，我想這證明了這些目標是值得的 但還有很多未完成的任務每年還有七百六十萬名孩童死於可預防、可治療的疾病一億七千八百萬孩童營養不良導致成長遲緩停滯，讓人痛心這些是對身體和智力上終身的傷害因此，對於這些目標我們還有很長的一段路要走 然而，有些人認為，有些事本來就應涵蓋在當時的目標裡的事情現在更應該要考慮加進去像是永續發展自然資源的管理機會平等，都有接受教育的機會公平、打擊貪腐等這些目標都是具體可衡量的、可以被加入到新目標之內 重點是你認為哪些事情應該被包括在新的目標之內?你想要甚麼?當我沒提到性別平等或教育你是否感到不滿意?這些該納入新的目標裡嗎? 說實在的，這真是個好問題我們將面對困難的妥協跟選擇，所以你希望世界能依循合法且合理的流程來制定新目標? 然而，當我們現在聚集在愛丁堡演講由聯合國指定的技術官僚和一些國家正用心良苦為設計新的目標而忙碌但是他們是依照20世界末期慣見的由上而下、精英領導的封閉式流程 當然，那時起，網路、行動電話通訊以及普遍存在的實境秀電視節目已經遍佈全世界因此，我們期望的是利用這些科技讓全世界的人參與這個「史上第一」史上頭一遭全球意見調查及諮詢每個角落的每個人都可以公平表達意見 我是說，如果是能做卻不這麼做難道不是歷史上的一大憾事?我們討論的是大家所提供的數以千億元的金援數以百萬計的人命的死活甚至攸關你自己和你家庭的未來 如果你認同我「向世界公民徵詢」計畫運動有三個基本步驟收集資料、集結群力和做出承諾 首先，我們必須以核心意見調查資料做為本運動的基礎讓我們進入每一個願意合作的國家詢問一千零一人他們期望中的新目標是甚麼?特別努力接觸貧窮人家那些沒有機會使用現代化科技的人確保他們的想法成為這個目標的核心 然後，進一步建立基線資料以確保我們可以監管這些目標並持續推進原先的目標並沒有真正具備好的基線資料在執行過程裡，我們會需要這些充分的資料以確認我們真的能監督進度 然後我們要把廣大群眾結合起來現在，我看到空前的、非常大群的群體合作包括社群媒體巨人、新興企業電信公司、實境電視節目、遊戲廠商等全部結合在一起形成「我們是一個世界」的狀態他們是否能一起合作將「千年發展目標」轉變為「千年世代的目標」?如果已經互連的五十億人口中有百分之五共同表達意見而這些意見變成承諾我們就可以集結這三億人口的群體力量來協助完成計畫 如果我們擁有這些集合資料，和這群聯結起來的民眾依據我們的經驗我們將可以使世界領袖們做出承諾我想世界領袖們願意為這些群眾建議做出承諾 但真正的問題是，經過這些流程表示我們大家都同意了嗎?如果是，我們準備好去再三重申、監督和提供回覆以確保這些承諾會有成果嗎? 這裡有些很棒的實例，很適合擴大規模這些大多是在非洲的一些先驅測試計畫有一個叫做”肯亞開放數據(Open Data Kenya)”的網路平台裡面有關於各項援助專案所在，及其成效全由當地民眾彙報訊息通常，這些訊息不完全正確Ushahidi這間公司 (Swahili語，意為眼見為憑)透過當地民眾收集複雜的緊急狀況及地理位置訊息幫助援助送到對的地方這是發展和民主之中最令人興奮的東西這些位於邊陲地帶的人們都在協助強力開放此流程確保來自上層的大規模的的全球援助承諾可以確實被傳遞到居於下層鄉村人民逆轉形成了頭重腳輕的金字塔，這種開放，這種強制性開放就是關鍵如果這還不夠完全的透明我還要說：我還有完全透明的目的 根據長期的趨勢這個世紀的生活環境將會更艱困人口增加、消費擴張爭奪稀有的自然資源看看今日的全球政局看看上周才舉行的里約地球高峰會還有同樣上周舉辦的墨西哥G20會議這兩者，老實說都是失敗的我們的世界領袖和全球政治目前都無法把事做好他們需要我們的幫忙，他們需要援兵而這援兵不會天外飛來是來自於我們我看到這種是由下往上的民主過程是重要的工具世界想要通力合作要透過這工具真正集合群眾力量真正在21世紀重振全球共同治理 這計畫我在2000年開始，將在2030年結束 幾年前，很多人嘲弄一個稱做「讓貧窮走入歷史」的大型運動在很多人心裡那實在很天真這也是事實那不過是一句短命的T恤上的標語但是，曾經只靠1點25美元生存的情況已經減少了在2030年會達到甚麼地步它將幾乎快消失現在肯定的是，中國及印度的貧窮減低的比率將會是關鍵最近連非洲的貧窮比率都在降低數字越接近零，將會更困難因為貧窮會出現在戰爭過後、脆弱的地區或著在中等收入的國家並不太被在意被邊緣化的那些人但我有信心，藉由正確的政治運動和具有創意和科技化的創新一起運作，同心同力我想我們可以達到這個和其他的目標 謝謝 (掌聲) 詹姆，我有個問題如果今天有個事件有一百名孩童死於某些悲劇狀況或著有一百個孩子被綁架，然後被特警隊救出我的意思是，它將會在新聞版面宣揚一整個禮拜，對吧?而你剛剛說其中一個數字是5000，就是這個數字嗎? 是指每日有5000名孩童免於死亡 每日將有5000名孩童免於死亡這很了不起，比任何實際的新聞事件更了不起但這卻沒有人曉得而這一定讓你氣壞了 的確，而且我們還在爭論援助規模的問題例如，僅僅給金錢援助並不是個完整的計畫沒人會這麼想但你知道，如果人們看到這些正確明智的援助的成果大家一定會為欣喜若狂我希望當時那些25萬名在這棟大樓外參與遊行的人能知道這些成果可惜他們並不曉得，我們應該要找個方法善加傳播這些成果目前為止，我們沒能有創新的方式去傳播這些成功結果如果這些努力能夠加以擴大傳播出去在關鍵時刻更是大聲放送我確定一定能產生更好的政策墨西哥G20會議不該是個失敗的會議在里約，如果有任何人真的關心生態會議也不會徒勞無功但是這些會議持續舉行我知道人們會懷疑並且嘲笑這些全球高峰會以及他們從來沒有兌現的承諾但實際上，所有正在發生的小規模的事件確有成效政治家們需要的是大眾的認可 但是你並沒有解決網絡機制幫助這件事發生也就是說，本週，當人們見識了你的公開平台的運作你很有興趣和他們接觸繼續進一步推動這項平台 當然會我要說，如果這場會議能夠帶給這個想法一些進展就非常了不起了如果你繼續進行，真的會非常棒所以非常謝你 JD：你們幫很大 謝謝 (掌聲)
