Talk	en	zh-tw
janet_iwasa_how_animations_can_help_scientists_test_a_hypothesis	"Take a look at this drawing. Can you tell what it is? I'm a molecular biologist by training, and I've seen a lot of these kinds of drawings. They're usually referred to as a model figure, a drawing that shows how we think a cellular or molecular process occurs. This particular drawing is of a process called clathrin-mediated endocytosis. It's a process by which a molecule can get from the outside of the cell to the inside by getting captured in a bubble or a vesicle that then gets internalized by the cell. There's a problem with this drawing, though, and it's mainly in what it doesn't show. From lots of experiments, from lots of different scientists, we know a lot about what these molecules look like, how they move around in the cell, and that this is all taking place in an incredibly dynamic environment. So in collaboration with a clathrin expert Tomas Kirchhausen, we decided to create a new kind of model figure that showed all of that. So we start outside of the cell. Now we're looking inside. Clathrin are these three-legged molecules that can self-assemble into soccer-ball-like shapes. Through connections with a membrane, clathrin is able to deform the membrane and form this sort of a cup that forms this sort of a bubble, or a vesicle, that's now capturing some of the proteins that were outside of the cell. Proteins are coming in now that basically pinch off this vesicle, making it separate from the rest of the membrane, and now clathrin is basically done with its job, and so proteins are coming in now — we've covered them yellow and orange — that are responsible for taking apart this clathrin cage. And so all of these proteins can get basically recycled and used all over again. These processes are too small to be seen directly, even with the best microscopes, so animations like this provide a really powerful way of visualizing a hypothesis. Here's another illustration, and this is a drawing of how a researcher might think that the HIV virus gets into and out of cells. And again, this is a vast oversimplification and doesn't begin to show what we actually know about these processes. You might be surprised to know that these simple drawings are the only way that most biologists visualize their molecular hypotheses. Why? Because creating movies of processes as we think they actually occur is really hard. I spent months in Hollywood learning 3D animation software, and I spend months on each animation, and that's just time that most researchers can't afford. The payoffs can be huge, though. Molecular animations are unparalleled in their ability to convey a great deal of information to broad audiences with extreme accuracy. And I'm working on a new project now called ""The Science of HIV"" where I'll be animating the entire life cycle of the HIV virus as accurately as possible and all in molecular detail. The animation will feature data from thousands of researchers collected over decades, data on what this virus looks like, how it's able to infect cells in our body, and how therapeutics are helping to combat infection. Over the years, I found that animations aren't just useful for communicating an idea, but they're also really useful for exploring a hypothesis. Biologists for the most part are still using a paper and pencil to visualize the processes they study, and with the data we have now, that's just not good enough anymore. The process of creating an animation can act as a catalyst that allows researchers to crystalize and refine their own ideas. One researcher I worked with who works on the molecular mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases came up with experiments that were related directly to the animation that she and I worked on together, and in this way, animation can feed back into the research process. I believe that animation can change biology. It can change the way that we communicate with one another, how we explore our data and how we teach our students. But for that change to happen, we need more researchers creating animations, and toward that end, I brought together a team of biologists, animators and programmers to create a new, free, open-source software — we call it Molecular Flipbook — that's created just for biologists just to create molecular animations. From our testing, we've found that it only takes 15 minutes for a biologist who has never touched animation software before to create her first molecular animation of her own hypothesis. We're also building an online database where anyone can view, download and contribute their own animations. We're really excited to announce that the beta version of the molecular animation software toolkit will be available for download today. We are really excited to see what biologists will create with it and what new insights they're able to gain from finally being able to animate their own model figures. Thank you. (Applause)"	"請大家看這張圖你知道這是什麼嗎？我是一個分子生物學家我看過很多這種圖通常是分子模型圖用來說明細胞或分子的分裂過程這張圖是在說明一個由網格蛋白介導的胞吞作用的過程透過這個過程一個分子可以從細胞外進入細胞內它先被一個泡囊包覆然後再被吞入細胞內但是 這張圖有一個問題而且從圖中看不出來從許多實驗以及科學家的研究中我們知道這些分子長什麼樣子知道它們如何在細胞內移動而且這都發生在令人難以置信的動態環境中因此 我們和網格蛋白專家Tomas Kirchhausen合作 要創造一種新的分子模型圖來說明一切我們從細胞外開始現在我們來看細胞內這些三隻腳的分子是網格蛋白它們可以自我組成像足球的形狀透過與細胞膜的連結網格蛋白會使連結膜變形形成這種杯子狀然後形成這種小泡並開始吞入原本在細胞外的蛋白質被吞入的蛋白質將小泡與膜分離 此時網格蛋白的任務基本上已完成蛋白質已進入細胞內我們用黃色和橘色表示它們負責將網格蛋白分解基本上所有這些蛋白質可以回收再利用 這些過程太小以致於無法直接觀察即使用最好的顯微鏡也看不到因此 這樣的動畫提供了一個好方法使科學假設可視化 這裡還有一張圖這張圖說明了研究人員是如何想像HIV病毒進出細胞內外的但這是個過於簡單的說明並沒有表達出我們實際上對這些過程的了解 你可能覺得訝異這些簡單的圖竟是大部分生物學家畫出分子假設的唯一方法為什麼？因為 依照我們認為的實際過程來設計這些移動是非常困難的我花了幾個月在好萊塢學習3D動畫軟體每個動畫又各花費了我一段時間而大部分研究人員 並沒有時間去學習不過 這個報酬是可觀的分子動畫無與倫比它可以向大眾傳達豐富的資訊並且準確無誤我正在進行一個新的計畫叫做""HIV的科學""我會以動畫盡可能準確地呈現出HIV病毒的完整生命循環以及詳細的分子資訊這個動畫將呈現出眾多研究人員數十年來蒐集到的資料包括病毒長什麼樣子它如何感染我們體內的細胞以及醫學治療如何幫助我們對付感染多年來 我發現動畫不僅可協助溝通更有助於探討假設生物學家大多仍在使用紙筆畫出他們所研究的過程但以我們現在擁有的資料來說這種方式不再足夠設計動畫的過程可以促進研究人員將自己的想法具體化 並進一步精煉有一名我合作過的研究人員她的研究是神經退化性疾病的分子機制她想出一些實驗跟我們共同創作的動畫相關這使得動畫可以回饋在研究過程上 我相信動畫可以改變生物學它可以改變我們的溝通方式研究數據的方式以及教育學生的方式但是要讓這樣的改變發生我們需要更多的研究人員去設計動畫因此 我發起組成了一個團隊包括生物學家 動畫人員以及程式人員設計一個新的 免費的 開放原始碼的軟體我們稱為""分子的Flipbook""專門讓生物學家使用用於設計分子動畫從測試中 我們發現只需要15分鐘就可以使從未接觸過動畫軟體的生物學家設計出她的第一個分子動畫來說明她的研究假設我們也在建置線上資料庫任何人都可以瀏覽 下載以及分享他們自己的動畫我們很興奮地要告訴大家這個分子動畫軟體工具包的試用版在今天就可以下載使用我們很期待生物學家的創作以及他們可以獲得什麼樣的新啟發而這個啟發來自於得以將自己的分子模型以動畫來呈現 謝謝 （掌聲）"
