Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_mcgonigal_the_game_that_can_give_you_10_extra_years_of_life	"I'm a gamer, so I like to have goals. I like special missions and secret objectives. So here's my special mission for this talk: I'm going to try to increase the life span of every single person in this room by seven and a half minutes. Literally, you will live seven and a half minutes longer than you would have otherwise, just because you watched this talk. Some of you are looking a little bit skeptical. That's okay, because check it out — I have math to prove that it is possible. It won't make much sense now. I'll explain it all later, just pay attention to the number at the bottom: +7.68245837 minutes. That will be my gift to you if I'm successful in my mission. Now, you have a secret mission too. Your mission is to figure out how you want to spend your extra seven and a half minutes. And I think you should do something unusual with them, because these are bonus minutes. You weren't going to have them anyway. Now, because I'm a game designer, you might be thinking to yourself, I know what she wants us to do with those minutes, she wants us to spend them playing games. Now this is a totally reasonable assumption, given that I have made quite a habit of encouraging people to spend more time playing games. For example, in my first TED Talk, I did propose that we should spend 21 billion hours a week, as a planet, playing video games. Now, 21 billion hours, it's a lot of time. It's so much time, in fact, that the number one unsolicited comment that I have heard from people all over the world since I gave that talk, is this: Jane, games are great and all, but on your deathbed, are you really going to wish you spent more time playing Angry Birds? (Laughter) This idea is so pervasive — that games are a waste of time that we will come to regret — that I hear it literally everywhere I go. For example, true story: Just a few weeks ago, this cab driver, upon finding out that a friend and I were in town for a game developers' conference, turned around and said — and I quote — ""I hate games. Waste of life. Imagine getting to the end of your life and regretting all that time."" Now, I want to take this problem seriously. I want games to be a force for good in the world. I don't want gamers to regret the time they spent playing, time that I encouraged them to spend. So I have been thinking about this question a lot lately. When we're on our deathbeds, will we regret the time we spent playing games? Now, this may surprise you, but it turns out there is actually some scientific research on this question. It's true. Hospice workers, the people who take care of us at the end of our lives, recently issued a report on the most frequently expressed regrets that people say when they are literally on their deathbeds. And that's what I want to share with you today — the top five regrets of the dying. Number one: I wish I hadn't worked so hard. Number two: I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends. Number three: I wish I had let myself be happier. Number four: I wish I'd had the courage to express my true self. And number five: I wish I'd lived a life true to my dreams, instead of what others expected of me. Now, as far as I know, no one ever told one of the hospice workers, ""I wish I'd spent more time playing video games,"" but when I hear these top five regrets of the dying, I can't help but hear five deep human cravings that games actually help us fulfill. For example, I wish I hadn't worked so hard. For many people, this means, I wish I'd spent more time with my family, with my kids when they were growing up. Well, we know that playing games together has tremendous family benefits. A recent study from Brigham Young University School of Family Life reported that parents who spend more time playing video games with their kids have much stronger real-life relationships with them. ""I wish I'd stayed in touch with my friends."" Hundreds of millions of people use social games like FarmVille or Words With Friends to stay in daily contact with real-life friends and family. A recent study from the University of Michigan showed that these games are incredibly powerful relationship-management tools. They help us stay connected with people in our social network that we would otherwise grow distant from, if we weren't playing games together. ""I wish I'd let myself be happier."" Well, here I can't help but think of the groundbreaking clinical trials recently conducted at East Carolina University that showed that online games can outperform pharmaceuticals for treating clinical anxiety and depression. Just 30 minutes of online game play a day was enough to create dramatic boosts in mood and long-term increases in happiness. ""I wish I'd had the courage to express my true self."" Well, avatars are a way to express our true selves, our most heroic, idealized version of who we might become. You can see that in this alter ego portrait by Robbie Cooper of a gamer with his avatar. And Stanford University has been doing research for five years now to document how playing a game with an idealized avatar changes how we think and act in real life, making us more courageous, more ambitious, more committed to our goals. ""I wish I'd led a life true to my dreams, and not what others expected of me."" Are games doing this yet? I'm not sure, so I've left a Super Mario question mark. We're going to come back to this one. But in the meantime, perhaps you're wondering, who is this game designer to be talking to us about deathbed regrets? And it's true, I've never worked in a hospice, I've never been on my deathbed. But recently I did spend three months in bed, wanting to die. Really wanting to die. Now let me tell you that story. It started two years ago, when I hit my head and got a concussion. The concussion didn't heal properly, and after 30 days, I was left with symptoms like nonstop headaches, nausea, vertigo, memory loss, mental fog. My doctor told me that in order to heal my brain, I had to rest it. So I had to avoid everything that triggered my symptoms. For me that meant no reading, no writing, no video games, no work or email, no running, no alcohol, no caffeine. In other words — and I think you see where this is going — no reason to live. (Laughter) Of course it's meant to be funny, but in all seriousness, suicidal ideation is quite common with traumatic brain injuries. It happens to one in three, and it happened to me. My brain started telling me, ""Jane, you want to die."" It said, ""You're never going to get better."" It said, ""The pain will never end."" And these voices became so persistent and so persuasive that I started to legitimately fear for my life, which is the time that I said to myself after 34 days — and I will never forget this moment — I said, ""I am either going to kill myself or I'm going to turn this into a game."" Now, why a game? I knew from researching the psychology of games for more than a decade that when we play a game — and this is in the scientific literature — we tackle tough challenges with more creativity, more determination, more optimism, and we're more likely to reach out to others for help. I wanted to bring these gamer traits to my real-life challenge, so I created a role-playing recovery game called Jane the Concussion Slayer. Now this became my new secret identity, and the first thing I did as a slayer was call my twin sister — I have an identical twin sister named Kelly — and tell her, ""I'm playing a game to heal my brain, and I want you to play with me."" This was an easier way to ask for help. She became my first ally in the game, my husband Kiyash joined next, and together we identified and battled the bad guys. Now this was anything that could trigger my symptoms and therefore slow down the healing process, things like bright lights and crowded spaces. We also collected and activated power-ups. This was anything I could do on even my worst day to feel just a little bit good, just a little bit productive. Things like cuddling my dog for 10 minutes, or getting out of bed and walking around the block just once. Now the game was that simple: Adopt a secret identity, recruit your allies, battle the bad guys, activate the power-ups. But even with a game so simple, within just a couple days of starting to play, that fog of depression and anxiety went away. It just vanished. It felt like a miracle. Now it wasn't a miracle cure for the headaches or the cognitive symptoms. That lasted for more than a year, and it was the hardest year of my life by far. But even when I still had the symptoms, even while I was still in pain, I stopped suffering. Now what happened next with the game surprised me. I put up some blog posts and videos online, explaining how to play. But not everybody has a concussion, obviously, not everyone wants to be ""the slayer,"" so I renamed the game SuperBetter. And soon, I started hearing from people all over the world who were adopting their own secret identity, recruiting their own allies, and they were getting ""super better,"" facing challenges like cancer and chronic pain, depression and Crohn's disease. Even people were playing it for terminal diagnoses like ALS. And I could tell from their messages and their videos that the game was helping them in the same ways that it helped me. They talked about feeling stronger and braver. They talked about feeling better understood by their friends and family. And they even talked about feeling happier, even though they were in pain, even though they were tackling the toughest challenge of their lives. Now at the time, I'm thinking to myself, what is going on here? I mean, how could a game so trivial intervene so powerfully in such serious, and in some cases life-and-death, circumstances? I mean, if it hadn't worked for me, there's no way I would have believed it was possible. Well, it turns out there's some science here, too. Some people get stronger and happier after a traumatic event. And that's what was happening to us. The game was helping us experience what scientists call post-traumatic growth, which is not something we usually hear about. We usually hear about post-traumatic stress disorder. But scientists now know that a traumatic event doesn't doom us to suffer indefinitely. Instead, we can use it as a springboard to unleash our best qualities and lead happier lives. Here are the top five things that people with post-traumatic growth say: ""My priorities have changed."" ""I'm not afraid to do what makes me happy."" ""I feel closer to my friends and family."" ""I understand myself better. I know who I really am now."" ""I have a new sense of meaning and purpose in my life."" ""I'm better able to focus on my goals and dreams."" Now, does this sound familiar? It should, because the top five traits of post-traumatic growth are essentially the direct opposite of the top five regrets of the dying. Now this is interesting, right? It seems that somehow, a traumatic event can unlock our ability to lead a life with fewer regrets. But how does it work? How do you get from trauma to growth? Or better yet, is there a way to get all the benefits of post-traumatic growth without the trauma, without having to hit your head in the first place? That would be good, right? I wanted to understand the phenomenon better, so I devoured the scientific literature, and here's what I learned. There are four kinds of strength, or resilience, that contribute to post-traumatic growth, and there are scientifically validated activities that you can do every day to build up these four kinds of resilience, and you don't need a trauma to do it. I could tell you what these four types of strength are, but I'd rather you experience them firsthand. I'd rather we all start building them up together right now. Here's what we're going to do. We'll play a quick game together. This is where you earn the seven and a half minutes of bonus life that I promised you earlier. All you have to do is successfully complete the first four SuperBetter quests. And I feel like you can do it. I have confidence in you. So, everybody ready? This is your first quest. Here we go. Pick one: Stand up and take three steps, or make your hands into fists, raise them over your head as high as you can for five seconds, go! All right, I like the people doing both. You are overachievers. Very good. (Laughter) Well done, everyone. That is worth +1 physical resilience, which means that your body can withstand more stress and heal itself faster. We know from the research that the number one thing you can do to boost your physical resilience is to not sit still. That's all it takes. Every single second that you are not sitting still, you are actively improving the health of your heart, and your lungs and brains. Everybody ready for your next quest? I want you to snap your fingers exactly 50 times, or count backwards from 100 by seven, like this: 100, 93... Go! (Snapping) Don't give up. (Snapping) Don't let the people counting down from 100 interfere with your counting to 50. (Snapping) (Laughter) Nice. Wow. That's the first time I've ever seen that. Bonus physical resilience. Well done, everyone. Now that's worth +1 mental resilience, which means you have more mental focus, more discipline, determination and willpower. We know from the scientific research that willpower actually works like a muscle. It gets stronger the more you exercise it. So tackling a tiny challenge without giving up, even one as absurd as snapping your fingers exactly 50 times or counting backwards from 100 by seven is actually a scientifically validated way to boost your willpower. So good job. Quest number three. Pick one: Because of the room, fate's really determined this for you, but here are the two options. If you're inside, find a window and look out of it. If you're outside, find a window and look in. Or do a quick YouTube or Google image search for ""baby [your favorite animal.]"" Do it on your phones, or just shout out some baby animals, and I'll put them on the screen. So, what do we want to see? Sloth, giraffe, elephant, snake. Okay, let's see what we got. Baby dolphin and baby llamas. Everybody look. Got that? Okay, one more. Baby elephant. (Audience) Oh! We're clapping for that? That's amazing. (Laughter) All right, what we're just feeling there is plus-one emotional resilience, which means you have the ability to provoke powerful, positive emotions like curiosity or love, which we feel looking at baby animals, when you need them most. Here's a secret from the scientific literature for you. If you can manage to experience three positive emotions for every one negative emotion over the course of an hour, a day, a week, you dramatically improve your health and your ability to successfully tackle any problem you're facing. And this is called the three-to-one positive emotion ratio. It's my favorite SuperBetter trick, so keep it up. All right, pick one, last quest: Shake someone's hand for six seconds, or send someone a quick thank you by text, email, Facebook or Twitter. Go! (Chatting) Looking good, looking good. Nice, nice. Keep it up. I love it! All right, everybody, that is +1 social resilience, which means you actually get more strength from your friends, your neighbors, your family, your community. Now, a great way to boost social resilience is gratitude. Touch is even better. Here's one more secret for you: Shaking someone's hand for six seconds dramatically raises the level of oxytocin in your bloodstream, now that's the trust hormone. That means that all of you who just shook hands are biochemically primed to like and want to help each other. This will linger during the break, so take advantage of the networking opportunities. (Laughter) Well, you have successfully completed your four quests, let's see if I've successfully completed my mission to give you seven and a half minutes of bonus life. Now I get to share one more little bit of science with you. It turns out that people who regularly boost these four types of resilience — physical, mental, emotional and social — live 10 years longer than everyone else. So this is true. If you are regularly achieving the three-to-one positive emotion ratio, if you are never sitting still for more than an hour at a time, if you are reaching out to one person you care about every single day, if you are tackling tiny goals to boost your willpower, you will live 10 years longer than everyone else, and here's where that math I showed you earlier comes in. So, the average life expectancy in the U.S. and the U.K. is 78.1 years, but we know from more than 1,000 peer-reviewed scientific studies that you can add 10 years of life by boosting your four types of resilience. So every single year that you are boosting your four types of resilience, you're actually earning .128 more years of life or 46 more days of life, or 67,298 more minutes of life, which means every single day, you are earning 184 minutes of life, or every single hour that you are boosting your four types of resilience, like we just did together, you are earning 7.68245837 more minutes of life. Congratulations, those seven and a half minutes are all yours. You totally earned them. Yeah! (Applause) Awesome. Wait, wait, wait. You still have your special mission, your secret mission. How are you going to spend these minutes of bonus life? Well, here's my suggestion. These seven and a half bonus minutes are kind of like genie's wishes. You can use your first wish to wish for a million more wishes. Pretty clever, right? So, if you spend these seven and a half minutes today doing something that makes you happy, or that gets you physically active, or puts you in touch with someone you care about, or even just tackling a tiny challenge, you're going to boost your resilience, so you're going to earn more minutes. And the good news is, you can keep going like that. Every hour of the day, every day of your life, all the way to your deathbed, which will now be 10 years later than it would have otherwise. And when you get there, more than likely, you will not have any of those top five regrets, because you will have built up the strength and resilience to lead a life truer to your dreams. And with 10 extra years, you might even have enough time to play a few more games. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我是個愛玩的人，所以我喜歡設定目標我喜愛特別的任務和秘密目標所以我的演講也有個特別的任務我會試圖讓這個房間裡的每個人我會試圖讓這個房間裡的每個人增加七分半鐘的壽命這不是比喻，而是你會確實的多活七分半鐘只因為你聽了我的演講只因為你聽了我的演講 很好，有些觀眾好像有點懷疑沒關係，看看這個這裡有數學公式可以證明給你看這些數字現在看起來沒什麼意義等等我會解釋只要注意底下這個數字就好7.68245837分鐘如果我的任務成功了，你們就能得到這份禮物 現在，你們也有個祕密的任務你們的任務就是想想該如何運用這多出來的七分半鐘我覺得你們該用這些時間來做點特別的事因為這是多出來的，原本並不存在 又因為我是個遊戲設計師，你可能會想我知道她想叫我們利用那些時間來做什麼她就是想要我們玩遊戲嘛!這個猜測很有道理因為我會習慣性的鼓勵人花更多時間來玩遊戲比如說，在我的第一個TED演講中我的確建議一星期花兩百一十億個小時玩電動遊戲 兩百一十億個小時好多啊事實上，自從作完那次演講後世界各地很多人給我的回應表示世界各地很多人給我的回應表示珍，遊戲並沒什麼不好，但你真的想在臨終前後悔當初該多打幾回憤怒鳥嗎?這種想法普遍存在，大家認為玩遊戲浪費時間一定會後悔，我去到哪都聽到這樣的話舉個例子，幾星期天前這名計程車司機得知我和我朋友來到城裡參與遊戲設計師會議時轉過頭說—-這是她說的喔——""我恨死遊戲了，浪費時間，你能想像你臨死前後悔花時間在遊戲上嗎?"" 現在，我想認真的看待這個問題我指的是，我希望遊戲能為這個世界帶來正面的力量我不希望人們後悔花時間玩遊戲我鼓勵他們花這些時間玩樂所以最近我常常思索這個問題當我們臨死前，我們真的會後悔花那些時間玩遊戲嗎? 接下來，也許你會很吃驚因為竟然有科學家研究這個問題沒錯，在我們走到生命盡頭時照顧我們的那些醫護人員最近發表了一份報告，而這份報告是關於人們在臨終前最後悔的事情這份報告是根據那些生命末期的人在臨終前所做的完整口述而那就是就是我今天想和大家分享的臨終的人們最後悔的五件事 第一: 我後悔曾經那麼賣命工作第二: 真希望我和我的朋友們保持連絡第三: 真希望我能活得更快樂第四: 真希望我有勇氣做自己第五: 真希望我的人生是為了自己而活而不是為了他人 就我所知，沒有任何人向醫療人員表示後悔沒花時間打電動但當我聽到這五件人們最後悔的事情時我聽到的這五件事其實都可藉由玩遊戲來得到滿足 比如說第一項 ""我後悔曾經那麼賣命工作""對很多人來說，這意味著""真希望我花更多的時間陪伴家人""""陪伴我的孩子成長""當然我們都知道，遊戲對家庭有著莫大的助益當然我們都知道，遊戲對家庭有著莫大的助益楊百翰大學最近有項研究家庭生活系所的報告指出那些陪伴他們小孩花更多時間打電動遊戲的家長和他們的小孩在現實生活中具有較好的關係 我真希望和我的朋友保持聯絡恩，數以百萬的人們透過社交遊戲，像是""農場鄉村""或""填字遊戲""來和現實世界的朋友和家人維持關係密歇根洲大學的一個報告指出這些遊戲是令人難以置信的充滿力量的人際關係管理工具它們讓我們和朋友保持良好關係否則我們可能會和那些朋友漸行漸遠如果我們沒有一起玩遊戲的話。 我真希望能讓自己更快樂恩，此時我不禁想到一個突破性的臨床實驗此實驗是最近剛由東卡羅來納大學所作的此實驗顯示，玩線上遊戲的療效能夠超過藥物針對臨床性的憂慮和沮喪的治療每天僅需要花30分鐘玩遊戲就足以在心中產生立即性的鼓舞作用以及長期的幸福感 我真希望我能有勇氣做自己沒錯，化身人物是一個表現真實自我的方式我們可以成為的最英勇且理想化的樣子你可以看到這個依自我意識所畫出來的化身像，由一個遊戲玩家，Robbie Cooper根據他心中的虛擬神話人物所畫的。而且史丹福大學已經做一項長達五年的研究此研究詳細記錄了藉由理想的化身玩遊戲是如何影響我們現實世界的思考和行為使我們更有勇氣，更有企圖心更加約束自己向目標前進。 我真希望我能過著真正往我夢想邁近的生活，而不是其他人對我所期待的。但是遊戲可以做到這樣嗎? 我不確定，所以我已經先在這留下一問號，一個超級瑪莉的問號而我們等會會回來看這個問題。 但此時，也許你有疑問，這遊戲設計者會接著來告訴我們有關臨終前的遺憾?而這是真的，雖然我不曾在安寧病房內工作過，我不曾躺在安寧病床上過。但最近我確實躺在床上達三個月，渴望死亡。真的渴望死亡。 現在讓我告訴你那個故事。要從兩年前說起，那時我的頭撞到而且得了腦震盪。那時腦震盪沒得到適當的治療，而且過了三十天後留下了後遺症像是不停頭痛，噁心，暈眩，失憶，意識模糊。我的醫生告訴我為了要治癒我的頭腦我得讓它休息。所以我得避免會引起我的後遺症的各類事物。對我而言那意味著不要看書，不要寫東西，不要打電動，不要工作或寫電子郵件，不喝酒，不喝含咖啡因飲料。這也就是說，而且我想你會知道這樣做會達到什麼地步，就沒理由活著了嘛。 當然這樣說只是玩笑話，但說真的，自殺的想法常產生常伴隨著受創頭部的損傷出現。每三個人中就有一個會發生這樣的狀況，而這已經發生在我身上。我的大腦告訴我， 珍，你渴望死亡。它說，你再也不會好起來了。它說，這樣的疼痛再也不會結束。 而且這樣的聲音變得持續不停產生而且越來有說服力讓我合理的對我的生命感到恐懼，就是此時我對我自己說三十四天後，而且我將不會忘記此一時刻，我說，我不是將自己殺死就是將這情況視為一場遊戲。 在那時，我為何可以將之視為遊戲呢?我知道，從進行10年以上的遊戲心理學研究得知當我們玩遊戲時，而且這在科學文獻上有記載，我們處理棘手的挑戰會以更有創造力方式解決，更有毅力，更樂觀而且我們較有可能尋求別人的援助而且我想要秉持著遊戲玩家的性格面對現實生活的挑戰所以我創造了一款角色扮演有助於康復的遊戲稱為""珍，腦震盪殺手""。 當時這變成我的新秘密身份，而且我當殺手第一件所做的事就是打電話給我的雙胞胎姊妹，我有一個和我長得一樣的姊妹，叫做凱利，而且告訴他，我正在玩一個遊戲用來治癒我的大腦，而且我要她和我一起玩。這是尋求援助的最簡當的方式。 她變成這個遊戲中我第一個盟友，我丈夫Kiyash接著加入，而且我們一起辨識出壞人並和他交戰。在那時這是一件可能會讓我症狀復發的事治療過程也因此減慢，如同亮光和擁擠的空間一般的事物。我們也集中並且啟動能量。這是一件甚至是在狀況最糟的日子裡我可能作的事情為了感覺狀況有好一點，富有有一點成效。事情就像抱我的狗十分鐘，或從床上爬起然後繞著街區走一圈。 那時這個遊戲就是那樣的單純:挑一個秘密角色，招募你的盟友，打擊壞人，開啟能量。但即使是遊戲如此簡單，只需要在一兩天內就可以開始玩，但是意志消沉和憂慮的霧氣不見了。它就這樣消散了。這感覺像奇蹟。那時這不是一個治癒頭痛的奇蹟方式或是針對所知症狀。那情況持續了一年以上，而且這是到目前為止我這輩子最艱辛的歲月。但即使我仍然有這些徵狀，即使我仍然感覺疼痛，我不再感受困苦。 在那時，接下來隨著遊戲發生的事情讓我感到驚訝。我放了一些部落格文章和影片到網路上，並且解釋如何玩。但顯然的並不是每個人都有腦震盪，不是每個人都想要當""殺手""，所以我將那遊戲名稱改為SuperBetter。 而且很快的我開始聽到來自世界各地玩過那遊戲人回應那些人挑了他們的秘密角色，招募盟友，而且他們具備supper better且面對挑戰，像是:癌症，慢性病的疼痛，意志消弭，和Crohn疾病。即使正在進行像是ALS的末期治療的人們也玩此遊戲。而且我可以從他們給我的訊息和他們的影片中告訴你這個遊戲幫助他們減輕痛苦和幫助我減輕痛苦一樣。他們提到感覺變得比較強壯和勇敢。他們說感覺更受到他們的朋友和家人諒解。而且他們甚至說感覺更快樂，即使他們處於痛苦中，即使他們正在面對他們生命中最艱辛的挑戰。 那時，我自己思考著，這時發生了什麼變化?我意思是，一個微不足道的遊戲如何發揮這麼大的影響力對於這麼嚴肅而且有時是攸關生死的情形?我的意思是，如果這個遊戲對我的病情沒效，那麼我就不會相信它可能有這麼大的影響力。沒錯，這確實有些科學根據。在經歷了創傷的經驗後，有些人變得比較強壯和快樂。而且那就是正在發生在我身上的事。 這個遊戲助於我們經歷科學家所說的創傷後的重生，這不是一些我們經常聽到的字眼。我們經常聽到創傷後所引發的壓力疾病。但科學家現在知道創傷的經歷不會注定使我們遭受無盡的苦難。取而代之的，我們可以利用它作為跳板並且將我們最好一面表現出來並過著更快樂的生活。 這裡有五件重要的事那些經歷創傷後重生的人所說的:我做事優先權改變了。我不再害怕去做那些讓我感到快樂的事。我感覺和我的朋友和家人變得更親近。我更加了解我自己。我現在知道真正的自己。我對我生命的意義和目的有新的定義。我更能夠去堅持我的目標和夢想。 現在，這有沒有聽起來蠻耳熟的?這應該是。因為創傷後重生的五個重要特質根本上和臨終時所留下的最大的五個遺憾相反。現在感覺有趣吧，對吧?這似乎是某種程度上，創傷經歷能開發我們的能力過著一個較少遺憾的生活。 但如何做呢?你如何從創傷中重生呢?或更好些，有任何方法可以得到這些益處在不經歷創傷下，那些創傷後重生所獲得的益處以及沒有撞到頭的前提下?那應該會不錯吧，對吧? 我想要更加了解這現象，所以我瘋狂似的看科學文獻，而接下來是我所了解到的。有四種力量，或說是適應力，那助於創傷後的重生，而且有四種經科學驗證過的活動那些是你能夠每天做來產生這四種適應力而且你不需要經歷創傷來達到那結果。 現在，我可以直接告訴你這四種力量是什麼，但我比較想讓你先體驗它們。我比較想讓我們大家都一起開始產生它們。所以接下來是我們要進行的事情。我們即將要一起玩一個不會花太多時間的遊戲。這就是那遊戲你可從中得到那些我一開始對你承諾的七分半壽命。你所必須做的就是成功的完成前四個SuperBetter任務。而且我覺得你們能夠達成它。我對你們有信心。 那麼，大家準備好了嗎? 這是你第一個任務。我們開始吧。選擇一項做: 站起來走三步，或者是手握拳，並舉起高過頭盡可能的舉高五分鐘。開始吧!太棒了，我喜歡兩項都做的人。你是超乎我預期成果的人。非常好。(笑聲) 大家都做得相當好。現在可以給身體適應加分，這意味著你的身體能夠承受更大的壓力而且可以更快的自我治療。現在我們從科學研究知道第一個方式你能強化你身體適應力的方式就是不要一直坐著。就那麼簡單。你沒有一直坐的每一分鐘內，你就是積極的在改善你心臟的健康，肺部，腦部的健康。 大家準備好接下來的任務了嗎?我要你們確實打五十次響指，或者是從一百開始每隔七個數倒數，像是這樣:一百,九十三,...開始吧! (打響指聲) 不要停下來喔。 (響指聲) 不要讓那些從100開始倒數的人干擾你正在倒數到五十。 (笑聲) 很好。哇。那是我過去以來第一次看到這狀況。又給身體適應力加分了。大家做得好。現在，可以給心理適應力加分，這意味著你容易精神集中，有更大的自我約束力，以及決心和意志。我們從科學研究結果知道意志力和肌肉一樣。你越訓練它，它就會變得更壯。所以面對一些小挑戰不要放棄，甚至像確實打五十次響指一樣荒繆的事情或每間隔七個數字從一百開始打響指的事情這是經過科學驗證可以強化意志的方式。 所以做得好。第三個任務。選一項來做:基於我們現在所在的空間，你也別無選擇，但這兒有兩個選項。如果你在室內，找到一塊窗戶接著向外看。如果你在戶外，找一塊窗戶向內看。或者快速的在YouTube或Google搜索關鍵字""寶寶[你最喜歡的動物]""。 現在，你可能能在手機上做這些事，或者你可以大聲說出一些動物寶寶我會將他找出來並為你放在銀幕上。所以，你想看到什麼呢?樹懶，長頸鹿，大象，和蛇。好的，看看我們有什麼吧!!海豚寶寶以及羊駝寶寶。大家看。有看到了嗎?好的，在一張。大象寶寶。我們為這鼓掌一下吧?那太驚奇了。 太好了，我們此時刻經歷到的是情緒方面的適應力提高的過程，這意味著你有能力激發強大的，正面的情緒，像是好奇心或愛，這就是我們看動物寶寶時所感受到的，當我們最需要這些正面情緒時。 而且這裡有個科學文獻發現的秘密要讓你知道。如果你能夠試圖產生出三個正面的情緒來消弭在一小時內的每個負面的情緒在一天內的，在一星期內的，那你就大大的改善你的健康以及提高你的能力來成功的解決任何你面臨的問題。而這就是所謂的三比一的正面情緒率。這是我最喜歡的SuperBetter 的小技巧，所以將它記著吧。 太好了，最後一個任務了，挑一個做吧:和某人握手6秒，或是對某人說聲簡短的感謝話用簡訊，email，臉書，推特。開始吧! (交流中) 表現不錯，表現不錯。很好，很好。就保持這樣，我就喜歡這樣!太好了，各位，可以提高在社交上的適應力了，這意味你確實從你的朋友你的鄰居，你的家人，你的生活圈得到更多力量了。此時可說，強化社交的適應力的好方法就是常保感恩。有接觸甚至會更好。 這裡還有一個秘密要讓你知道:和某人握手六秒會大大的提高血流量內的催產素，而那就是所相信的荷爾蒙。這意味著那些剛剛握手的人會受到生化反應激發出動力去喜歡和幫助彼此。這動力在休息期間會持續著，所以好好利用這社交機會吧。 (笑聲) 好的，我想，你們已經成功完成這四個任務，所以讓我來看看我是否成功達成我的任務讓你可以增加額外的七分半的生命。而這就是我要和你分享的一點科學方面的東西。證明是那些經常強化這四種適應力的人，在體能方面，心理方面，情緒方面，和社交方面，比其他人多活十年。所以這確實是真的。如果你經常具有這三比一的正面情緒率，如果你不再一直坐著超過一個小時以上，如果每一天你向所愛的人尋求協助，如果你透過達成小目標來達成強化你的意志力，那麼你將會比別人多活十年，而這部分是我先前給你看的那個數學。 所以呢，美國和英國平均的壽命是78.1年，但我們從一千個以上同儕審查下的研究結果得知你能夠透過強化四種適應力的方式來增加十年的壽命。所以，在強化這四種適應力的每一天當中所以，在強化這四種適應力的每一天當中你確實多增加了0.128年的壽命或說多46天的壽命，或是多67,298分鐘的壽命，這意味著每一天，你正在增加184分鐘的壽命，或說，在強化這四種適應力的每一小時當中，就像是我們剛剛一起做的，你將多增加7.68245837分鐘的壽命 恭喜你，你已經多增加七分半的壽命你完全可以獲得它。 (掌聲) 耶! 太驚奇了。等等，等等，等等。你仍然有特別的任務在身，你的秘密任務。你如何利用那多曾加出來的七分半的壽命?你如何利用那多曾加出來的七分半的壽命? 恩，我這裡有個建議。這七分半的壽命有點像是向神許願得來的。你可以用第一個願望在去許數百萬個願望。相當聰明，對吧?所以，今天如果你用這七分半的壽命作些讓你快樂的事，或鍛鍊你的身體，或聯繫你所愛的人，或甚至迎接小小的挑戰，你將會強化你的適應力，所以你將會多增加幾分鐘的壽命。 而且好消息是，你能夠一直像那樣進行下去。一天當中的每一小時，生命的每一天，一直到你臨終的每一天，這將比本來的應該有的壽命多十年。而且當你到那時，很有可能的，你將不會任何常見的遺憾，因為你已經建立起這些力量和適應力引領你的生命邁向夢想。而且由於有額外的十年壽命，你也許甚至有足夠的時間玩一些遊戲。 謝謝。 (掌聲)"
