Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_mcgonigal_massively_multi_player_thumb_wrestling	"Today I am going to teach you how to play my favorite game: massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling. It's the only game in the world that I know of that allows you, the player, the opportunity to experience 10 positive emotions in 60 seconds or less. This is true, so if you play this game with me today for just one single minute, you will get to feel joy, relief, love, surprise, pride, curiosity, excitement, awe and wonder, contentment, and creativity, all in the span of one minute. So this sounds pretty good, right? Now you're willing to play. In order to teach you this game, I'm going to need some volunteers to come up onstage really quickly, and we're going to do a little hands-on demo. While they're coming up, I should let you know, this game was invented 10 years ago by an artists' collective in Austria named Monochrom. So thank you, Monochrom. Okay, so most people are familiar with traditional, two-person thumb-wrestling. Sunni, let's just remind them. One, two, three, four,  I declare a thumb war, and we wrestle, and of course Sunni beats me because she's the best. Now the first thing about massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling, we're the gamer generation. There are a billion gamers on the planet now, so we need more of a challenge. So the first thing we need is more thumbs. So Eric, come on over. So we could get three thumbs together, and Peter could join us. We could even have four thumbs together, and the way you win is you're the first person to pin someone else's thumb. This is really important. You can't, like, wait while they fight it out and then swoop in at the last minute. That is not how you win. Ah, who did that? Eric you did that. So Eric would have won. He was the first person to pin my thumb. Okay, so that's the first rule, and we can see that three or four is kind of the typical number of thumbs in a node, but if you feel ambitious, you don't have to hold back. We can really go for it. So you can see up here. Now the only other rule you need to remember is, gamer generation, we like a challenge. I happen to notice you all have some thumbs you're not using. So I think we should kind of get some more involved. And if we had just four people, we would do it just like this, and we would try and wrestle both thumbs at the same time. Perfect. Now, if we had more people in the room, instead of just wrestling in a closed node, we might reach out and try and grab some other people. And in fact, that's what we're going to do right now. We're going to try and get all, something like, I don't know, 1,500 thumbs in this room connected in a single node. And we have to connect both levels, so if you're up there, you're going to be reaching down and reaching up. Now — (Laughter) — before we get started — This is great. You're excited to play. — before we get started, can I have the slides back up here really quick, because if you get good at this game, I want you to know there are some advanced levels. So this is the kind of simple level, right? But there are advanced configurations. This is called the Death Star Configuration. Any Star Wars fans? And this one's called the Möbius Strip. Any science geeks, you get that one. This is the hardest level. This is the extreme. So we'll stick with the normal one for now, and I'm going to give you 30 seconds, every thumb into the node, connect the upper and the lower levels, you guys go on down there. Thirty seconds. Into the network. Make the node. Stand up! It's easier if you stand up. Everybody, up up up up up! Stand up, my friends. All right. Don't start wrestling yet. If you have a free thumb, wave it around, make sure it gets connected. Okay. We need to do a last-minute thumb check. If you have a free thumb, wave it around to make sure. Grab that thumb! Reach behind you. There you go. Any other thumbs? Okay, on the count of three, you're going to go. Try to keep track. Grab, grab, grab it. Okay? One, two, three, go! (Laughter) Did you win? You got it? You got it? Excellent! (Applause) Well done. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. While you are basking in the glow of having won your first massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling game, let's do a quick recap on the positive emotions. So curiosity. I said ""massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling."" You were like, ""What the hell is she talking about?"" So I provoked a little curiosity. Creativity: it took creativity to solve the problem of getting all the thumbs into the node. I'm reaching around and I'm reaching up. So you used creativity. That was great. How about surprise? The actual feeling of trying to wrestle two thumbs at once is pretty surprising. You heard that sound go up in the room. We had excitement. As you started to wrestle, maybe you're starting to win or this person's, like, really into it, so you kind of get the excitement going. We have relief. You got to stand up. You've been sitting for awhile, so the physical relief, getting to shake it out. We had joy. You were laughing, smiling. Look at your faces. This room is full of joy. We had some contentment. I didn't see anybody sending text messages or checking their email while we were playing, so you were totally content to be playing. The most important three emotions, awe and wonder, we had everybody connected physically for a minute. When was the last time you were at TED and you got to connect physically with every single person in the room? And it's truly awesome and wondrous. And speaking of physical connection, you guys know I love the hormone oxytocin, you release oxytocin, you feel bonded to everyone in the room. You guys know that the best way to release oxytocin quickly is to hold someone else's hand for at least six seconds. You guys were all holding hands for way more than six seconds, so we are all now biochemically primed to love each other. That is great. And the last emotion of pride. How many people are like me. Just admit it. You lost both your thumbs. It just didn't work out for you. That's okay, because you learned a new skill today. You learned, from scratch, a game you never knew before. Now you know how to play it. You can teach other people. So congratulations. How many of you won just won thumb? All right. I have very good news for you. According to the official rules of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling, this makes you a grandmaster of the game. Because there aren't that many people who know how to play, we have to kind of accelerate the program more than a game like chess. So congratulations, grandmasters. Win one thumb once, you will become a grandmaster. Did anybody win both their thumbs? Yes. Awesome. Okay. Get ready to update your Twitter or Facebook status. You guys, according to the rules, are legendary grandmasters, so congratulations. I will just leave you with this tip, if you want to play again. The best way to become a legendary grandmaster, you've got your two nodes going on. Pick off the one that looks easiest. They're not paying attention. They look kind of weak. Focus on that one and do something crazy with this arm. As soon as you win, suddenly stop. Everybody is thrown off. You go in for the kill. That's how you become a legendary grandmaster of massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling. Thank you for letting me teach you my favorite game. Wooo! (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我要教你們怎麼玩我最愛的遊戲：超級多人拇指摔角這是我所知的唯一一個可以讓你，也就是玩家得以在六十秒內體驗十種正面心情的遊戲這是真的，因此如果你今天和我玩這個遊戲只需要一分鐘你將會感受到喜悅、解脫、愛、驚喜驕傲、好奇、興奮、敬畏與驚奇滿足，以及創造力這都將在一分鐘內發生 聽起來很不錯吧？你現在會願意玩這個遊戲了為了教你們這個遊戲我需要一些自願者很快地到台上來然後我們將會親身示範在等他們上來的同時我該讓你們知道這個遊戲是在十年前，由一位奧地利藝術收藏家Monochrom發明的謝謝你，Monochrom好的，大部份的人都對傳統的兩人拇指摔角很熟悉Sunni，我們幫他們複習一下吧一，二，三，四當我說拇指比賽，然後我們就開始當然Sunni會打敗我因為她是最厲害的 玩多人拇指摔角，（要知道）的第一件事情就是我們身處玩家的世代現在全世界有十數億個玩家所以我們面臨大挑戰首先，我們需要更多的拇指所以，來吧，Eric我們把三個拇指湊在一起然後Peter可以加入我們我們甚至可以把四個拇指湊在一起如果你是第一個把別人的拇指按住的人，你就贏了這很重要你不能在一旁觀戰，然後在最後才突然壓下來這樣子贏了不算噢，是誰？是Eric這樣Eric就贏了他是第一個把我的拇指壓住的好，這就是第一條規則三個或四個拇指是在一個節點中常見的拇指數量但是如果你很有野心的話別憋在心裡我們真的可以爭取更多你可以看到你要記住的另外一條規則就是身為玩家世代的一員，我們喜歡挑戰讓我提醒你們，你們都有一些你現在沒在用的拇指所以我覺得我們應該試點其他的如果我們只有四個人我們可以這樣做同時用兩隻拇指摔角同時用兩個拇指摔角太好了 好，如果這房間裡有更多人我們可以往外延伸讓更多人參與我們而不是只在一個封閉的節點裡玩摔角事實上這就是我們現在要做的我們要試著把這房間裡所有的我不確定，大概1500個拇指在一個節點裡面連接起來我們得連結兩層樓所以如果你在樓上的話你就要同時連接樓上和樓下 現在—（笑聲）—在我們開始之前很好。你們已經等不及了—在我們開始之前我在上面再放幾張投影片因為如果你對這個遊戲很在行的話我想讓你知道還有其它進階版這看其來是基本款對吧？但是還有其它種高級組合這叫做「死星組合」這裡有星際大戰迷嗎？這個叫做莫比烏斯帶你是科學狂的話就會知道這是最高級的非常困難 所以我們先玩個正常的我會給你們30秒的時間把每一個拇指放到節點裡面連結樓上和樓下你們可以到台下30秒建立連結，形成節點 站起來！站起來會容易一點所有人站起來，站起來站起來！站起來吧，我的朋友好的還不要開始摔角如果你還有多出的拇指揮揮手確認都有連結了好做最後的確認如果你還有多出的拇指揮揮手抓住那個拇指！在你後面就是這樣還有其它拇指嗎？好數到三就開始隨時注意。抓好抓好抓好好了嗎？一，二，三，開始！ （笑聲） 你贏了嗎？你贏了？你贏了？太好了！（掌聲）做得好。謝謝你們非常感謝你們 好的當你沈浸在你第一次贏得超級多人拇指摔角比賽勝利的光榮中時我們來說說這當中的正面情緒「好奇心」：當我說「超級多人拇指摔角」的時候你大概會想：「她到底在說什麼？」我引發了一些好奇心「創造力」：把所有的拇指連結到一個節點需要發揮創造力要和周遭以及上面的人連結所以你們發揮了創造力這樣很好那「驚喜」呢？同時用兩個拇指摔角是很讓人驚喜的事你聽到了這個房間裡的聲音變大了還有「興奮」：當你開始摔角的時候你也許覺得能夠贏過那個人所以你開始感到興奮我們得到了「解脫」：你得站起來你們已經坐著好一陣子了身體的舒緩把疲勞一掃而空我們得到了「喜悅」。你們在大笑、微笑看看這些面孔。這個房間裡充滿了喜悅我們感到很滿足當我們在玩的時候，我沒看到有人在傳訊息或是在看電子郵件表示你們完全滿足於玩這個遊戲最重要的三個情緒、敬畏、以及驚訝我們把所有人在生理上連結起來了一分鐘你們上次在TED演說當中和在這房間裡的每一個人產生連結是什麼時候？這真是令人驚訝又奇妙說到生理上的連結我很喜歡催產素這個荷爾蒙當你分泌催產素時你會感到跟這個房間裡的所有人產生了連結快速分泌催產素的最好方法就是握住另一個人的手至少六秒你們都握了遠遠超過六秒所以我們現在正因為生化反應的刺激而愛對方這很棒 最後一種情緒是「驕傲」有多少人跟我一樣承認吧你兩個拇指都輸了那這個情緒就不適用在你身上但沒關係因為你今天學了一項新技能你學到，從基礎開始一個你從來不知道的遊戲現在你知道如何玩這個遊戲你可以教別人玩恭喜你有多少人只有贏一個拇指？好我有個好消息告訴你們根據多人拇指摔角的正式規則根據超級多人拇指摔角的正式規則這表示你是這個遊戲的大師因為並沒有很多人知道怎麼玩我們必須讓更多人認識這個遊戲讓它變得比西洋棋還要熱門恭喜，大師們贏一個拇指就會讓你成為一位大師有人兩個拇指都贏的嗎？有。大棒了。好準備在Twitter或是Facebook上面更新狀態吧根據規則你們是傳奇大師，恭喜如果你們還想再玩的話讓我告訴你們一個祕訣成為一位傳奇大師最好的方法要同時注意你的兩個節點選看起來比較容易的那個下手別人並不專心他們看起來很弱專注在那一邊並用這邊的手臂做些瘋狂事當你贏了之後馬上停止每個人都會被分心你就進去大殺四方如此就能成為多人拇指摔角的傳奇大師謝謝你們讓我教你們我最喜歡的遊戲嗚呼！（掌聲）謝謝！（掌聲）
