Talk	en	zh-tw
janette_sadik_khan_new_york_s_streets_not_so_mean_any_more	"The work of a transportation commissioner isn't just about stop signs and traffic signals. It involves the design of cities and the design of city streets. Streets are some of the most valuable resources that a city has, and yet it's an asset that's largely hidden in plain sight. And the lesson from New York over the past six years is that you can update this asset. You can remake your streets quickly, inexpensively, it can provide immediate benefits, and it can be quite popular. You just need to look at them a little differently. This is important because we live in an urban age. For the first time in history, most people live in cities, and the U.N. estimates that over the next 40 years, the population is going to double on the planet. So the design of cities is a key issue for our future. Mayor Bloomberg recognized this when he launched PlaNYC in 2007. The plan recognized that cities are in a global marketplace, and that if we're going to continue to grow and thrive and to attract the million more people that are expected to move here, we need to focus on the quality of life and the efficiency of our infrastructure. For many cities, our streets have been in a kind of suspended animation for generations. This is a picture of Times Square in the '50s, and despite all of the technological innovation, cultural changes, political changes, this is Times Square in 2008. Not much has changed in those 50 years. So we worked hard to refocus our agenda, to maximize efficient mobility, providing more room for buses, more room for bikes, more room for people to enjoy the city, and to make our streets as safe as they can be for everybody that uses them. We set out a clear action plan with goals and benchmarks. Having goals is important, because if you want to change and steer the ship of a big city in a new direction, you need to know where you're going and why. The design of a street can tell you everything about what's expected on it. In this case, it's expected that you shelter in place. The design of this street is really to maximize the movement of cars moving as quickly as possible from point A to point B, and it misses all the other ways that a street is used. When we started out, we did some early surveys about how our streets were used, and we found that New York City was largely a city without seats. Pictures like this, people perched on a fire hydrant, not the mark of a world-class city. (Laughter) It's not great for parents with kids. It's not great for seniors. It's not great for retailers. It's probably not good for the fire hydrants. Certainly not good for the police department. So we worked hard to change that balance, and probably the best example of our new approach is in Times Square. Three hundred and fifty thousand people a day walk through Times Square, and people had tried for years to make changes. They changed signals, they changed lanes, everything they could do to make Times Square work better. It was dangerous, hard to cross the street. It was chaotic. And so, none of those approaches worked, so we took a different approach, a bigger approach, looked at our street differently. And so we did a six-month pilot. We closed Broadway from 42nd Street to 47th Street and created two and a half acres of new pedestrian space. And the temporary materials are an important part of the program, because we were able to show how it worked. And I work for a data-driven mayor, as you probably know. So it was all about the data. So if it worked better for traffic, if it was better for mobility, if it was safer, better for business, we would keep it, and if it didn't work, no harm, no foul, we could put it back the way that it was, because these were temporary materials. And that was a very big part of the buy-in, much less anxiety when you think that something can be put back. But the results were overwhelming. Traffic moved better. It was much safer. Five new flagship stores opened. It's been a total home run. Times Square is now one of the top 10 retail locations on the planet. And this is an important lesson, because it doesn't need to be a zero-sum game between moving traffic and creating public space. Every project has its surprises, and one of the big surprises with Times Square was how quickly people flocked to the space. We put out the orange barrels, and people just materialized immediately into the street. It was like a Star Trek episode, you know? They weren't there before, and then zzzzzt! All the people arrived. Where they'd been, I don't know, but they were there. And this actually posed an immediate challenge for us, because the street furniture had not yet arrived. So we went to a hardware store and bought hundreds of lawn chairs, and we put those lawn chairs out on the street. And the lawn chairs became the talk of the town. It wasn't about that we'd closed Broadway to cars. It was about those lawn chairs. ""What did you think about the lawn chairs?"" ""Do you like the color of the lawn chairs?"" So if you've got a big, controversial project, think about lawn chairs. (Laughter) This is the final design for Times Square, and it will create a level surface, sidewalk to sidewalk, beautiful pavers that have studs in them to reflect the light from the billboards, creating a great new energy on the street, and we think it's going to really create a great place, a new crossroads of the world that is worthy of its name. And we will be cutting the ribbon on this, the first phase, this December. With all of our projects, our public space projects, we work closely with local businesses and local merchant groups who maintain the spaces, move the furniture, take care of the plants. This is in front of Macy's, and they were a big supporter of this new approach, because they understood that more people on foot is better for business. And we've done these projects all across the city in all kinds of neighborhoods. This is in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn, and you can see the short leg that was there, used for cars, that's not really needed. So what we did is we painted over the street, put down epoxy gravel, and connected the triangle to the storefronts on Grand Avenue, created a great new public space, and it's been great for businesses along Grand Avenue. We did the same thing in DUMBO, in Brooklyn, and this is one of our first projects that we did, and we took an underutilized, pretty dingy-looking parking lot and used some paint and planters to transform it over a weekend. And in the three years since we've implemented the project, retail sales have increased 172 percent. And that's twice that of adjacent areas in the same neighborhood. We've moved very, very quickly with paint and temporary materials. Instead of waiting through years of planning studies and computer models to get something done, we've done it with paint and temporary materials. And the proof is not in a computer model. It is in the real-world performance of the street. You can have fun with paint. All told, we've created over 50 pedestrian plazas in all five boroughs across the city. We've repurposed 26 acres of active car lanes and turned them into new pedestrian space. I think one of the successes is in its emulation. You're seeing this kind of approach, since we've painted Times Square, you've seen this approach in Boston, in Chicago, in San Francisco, in Mexico City, Buenos Aires, you name it. This is actually in Los Angeles, and they actually copied even the green dots that we had on the streets. But I can't underscore enough how much more quickly this enables you to move over traditional construction methods. We also brought this quick-acting approach to our cycling program, and in six years turned cycling into a real transportation option in New York. I think it's fair to say — (Applause) — it used to be a fairly scary place to ride a bike, and now New York has become one of the cycling capitals in the United States. And we moved quickly to create an interconnected network of lanes. You can see the map in 2007. This is how it looked in 2013 after we built out 350 miles of on-street bike lanes. I love this because it looks so easy. You just click it, and they're there. We also brought new designs to the street. We created the first parking-protected bike lane in the United States. (Applause) We protected bikers by floating parking lanes, and it's been great. Bike volumes have spiked. Injuries to all users, pedestrians, cyclists, drivers, are all down 50 percent. And we've built 30 miles of these protected bike lanes, and now you're seeing them pop up all over the country. And you can see here that this strategy has worked. The blue line is the number of cyclists, soaring. The green line is the number of bike lanes. And the yellow line is the number of injuries, which has remained essentially flat. After this big expansion, you've seen no net increase in injuries, and so there is something to that axiom that there is safety in numbers. Not everybody liked the new bike lanes, and there was a lawsuit and somewhat of a media frenzy a couple years ago. One Brooklyn paper called this bike lane that we have on Prospect Park West ""the most contested piece of land outside of the Gaza Strip."" (Laughter) And this is what we had done. So if you dig below the headlines, though, you'll see that the people were far ahead of the press, far ahead of the politicians. In fact, I think most politicians would be happy to have those kind of poll numbers. Sixty-four percent of New Yorkers support these bike lanes. This summer, we launched Citi Bike, the largest bike share program in the United States, with 6,000 bikes and 330 stations located next to one another. Since we've launched the program, three million trips have been taken. People have ridden seven million miles. That's 280 times around the globe. And so with this little blue key, you can unlock the keys to the city and this brand new transportation option. And daily usage just continues to soar. What has happened is the average daily ridership on the streets of New York is 36,000 people. The high that we've had so far is 44,000 in August. Yesterday, 40,000 people used Citi Bike in New York City. The bikes are being used six times a day. And I think you also see it in the kinds of riders that are on the streets. In the past, it looked like the guy on the left, ninja-clad bike messenger. And today, cyclists look like New York City looks. It's diverse — young, old, black, white, women, kids, all getting on a bike. It's an affordable, safe, convenient way to get around. Quite radical. We've also brought this approach to our buses, and New York City has the largest bus fleet in North America, the slowest bus speeds. As everybody knows, you can walk across town faster than you can take the bus. And so we focused on the most congested areas of New York City, built out six bus rapid transit lines, 57 miles of new speedy bus lanes. You pay at a kiosk before you get on the bus. We've got dedicated lanes that keep cars out because they get ticketed by a camera if they use that lane, and it's been a huge success. I think one of my very favorite moments as transportation commissioner was the day that we launched Citi Bike, and I was riding Citi Bike up First Avenue in my protected bike lane, and I looked over and I saw pedestrians standing safely on the pedestrian islands, and the traffic was flowing, birds were singing — (Laughter) — the buses were speeding up their dedicated lanes. It was just fantastic. And this is how it looked six years ago. And so, I think that the lesson that we have from New York is that it's possible to change your streets quickly, it's not expensive, it can provide immediate benefits, and it can be quite popular. You just need to reimagine your streets. They're hidden in plain sight. Thank you. (Applause)"	運輸委員的工作不僅和停止標記與交通號誌有關其中涉及城市設計與城市街道的設計規劃街道是城市裡最有價值的資源之一它同時也是一份資產而這份資產大量地隱身在我們的視域中過去六年裡從紐約習得的經驗過去六年裡從紐約習得的經驗就是你可以將這份資產與時俱進你可以用經濟實惠又快速的方式重新構築街道它能產生立即性的效益而且可以相當受到大家歡迎你只要以稍稍不同的角度去檢視它 這點很重要，因為我們生活在城市時代這是歷史上第一次大多數的人都居住在城市裡聯合國估計接下來的四十年全球人口將會成長至現在的兩倍所以城市設計是未來一項重要的議題彭博市長意識到2007 年他發起「規畫紐約」計畫時該項計畫認可了城市是包含在全球市場之中如果我們想繼續成長、繁榮興盛並且吸引超過百萬以上希望移居到紐約的人口我們就必須注重生活品質與基礎建設的效能 對許多城市而言，我們的街道處於某種假死狀態已經好幾個世代了這是一張五零年代時代廣場的照片儘管經過所有的科技革新、文化變遷、政治變革這是 2008 年時代廣場的照片經過了五十年並沒有太大的改變所以我們努力重新調整我們的議程將高效流動性提升至最大提供公車、自行車、群眾更多的空間來享受城市生活讓我們的街道能夠以最安全的方式讓大家來使用 我們開始進行一個明確的行動計畫以有目標、有基準的方式有目標是一件很重要的事因為如果你想要改變並導引這艘名為「大城市」的船到一個新的方向你必須知道你要前往何處以及為何這麼做 一條街道的設計能告訴你所有我們對這條街道的期待就這件案子而言，便是擁有棲憩的空間這條街道的設計就真的是將汽車的移動速度最大化能夠盡可能地快速移動從 A 點到 B 點然而這樣會錯失所有其他使用街道的方式 當我們開始計畫時，我們事先勘查我們如何使用街道而我們發現紐約的街道多數都沒有座椅就像這張圖片，人們都坐在消防栓上，這不是世界級城市該出現的景像（笑聲）這對帶小孩的家長不好、對年長者不好、對零售業也不好這可能對消防栓也不好想當然爾對當地警局也不好 所以我們努力改變那種對比而或許我們新方法的最好例子就是在時代廣場每天有三十五萬人會經過時代廣場人們已經努力數年想做些改變他們改變號誌、改變車道盡可能讓時代廣場變得更好以前要跨越馬路到對向街道是件困難又危險的事交通一片混亂因此沒有任何一項方法管用所以我們用另一種的方法，規模比較大的方法以不同的角度來看我們的街道且試用了六個月我們關閉百老匯的 42 街到 47 街開闢出一塊 2.5 英畝新的行人空間使用臨時性器材是該計劃的重點因為我們能夠向大家呈現它如何作用我們的市長很重視數據，你們大概也知道因此一切以數據為主如果交通因此改善了、車流更順暢、更安全、商家生意更興隆，我們就會繼續施行如果這項計畫沒有成效，沒關係我們可以回歸舊有的方式因為這些都只是暫時性的材料而這是此項新政策非常重大的一部份少了很多困擾，當你認為可以回復原本的方式但那效果卻是壓倒性的成功交通順暢，也比以前更安全了新開了五間旗艦店這個計畫真是大大的成功時代廣場現在是全球排名十大零售點之一這是一個很重要的課題因它不必是一方得利另一方損失的零和局面在改變的交通現況與創造公共空間之間 每項計畫都有它令人驚艷的地方時代廣場最令人驚訝的一點就是人們聚集的速度非常快我們放置橘色筒狀路障人們就突然出現聚集在街道上看起來就像是星際大戰影集他們之前還沒有出現在那裡，然後...嗞!大家一下子都來了群眾從何而來我不知道，但就出現在那裡了事實上這給了我們一個立即性的挑戰因為街道設施還沒有送來所以我們去五金行買幾百張折疊椅我們將這些折疊椅放在街道上這些折疊椅變成城裡的流行話題不是在談論我們禁止車輛駛入百老匯而是在談論這些折疊椅「這些折疊椅你覺得怎麼樣？你喜歡折疊椅的顏色嗎？」所以如果你有一項大型且具爭議性的計畫可以考慮擺一些摺疊椅看看（笑聲） 這就是時代廣場最終的設計這將會建造平坦的路面、人行道相互連接、美麗的地面鋪飾還有飾釘穿插其中來反射廣告看板的光為街道創造出一種全新的能量我們認為這將會真的創造出一個很棒的地方、世界的一個新的十字路口才配得上它的名字我們將進行剪綵第一階段在十二月 我們所有的計畫、公共空間規畫我們密切地與當地企業和當地商家團體合作他們會負責維護空間、移動擺設、照顧花草這是在梅西百貨公司前面，梅西百貨是這個新方案的一大支持者因為他們知道如果有更多人用步行的方式對商業發展會更好 我們已在這城市裡很多地方執行這些計畫在所有鄰近區域這是布魯克林的貝史蒂你們可以看見那邊有矮柱在那裡那是給車子用的，但不是真的需要所以我們就用油漆粉刷街道鋪上環氧樹脂砂礫路面並連接這三角形行人島到格蘭大道的店面創造一個全新的公共空間這對格蘭德大道上店家的生意非常好這對格蘭德大道上店家的生意非常好在布魯克林的 DUMBO 我們也作了同樣的事情而這是我們第一期計畫的其中一項工程我們用一個未經充分利用看起來又相當破舊的停車場用一些油漆和盆栽花一個週末的時間改造它在我們實施這項計畫的三年內零售額增加 172%是同區鄰近地帶的兩倍之多 我們的進度非常快用油漆和暫時性的材料而不是等著數年的規劃研究與電腦模型來完成一些事我們用油漆和暫時性材料就辦到了這項證據並不是在電腦模型裡而是呈現在真實世界的街頭上油漆是很有趣的 總之，我們已創造了五十多個行人徒步區在紐約市的五個行政區我們將佔地 26 英畝的現有車道變成全新的行人空間 我認為其中一個成功之處就是仿效競爭你看見這類的方法從我們粉刷時代廣場起你已看到這種方法在波士頓、芝加哥、舊金山、墨西哥市、布宜諾斯艾利斯，你講得出來的都可以看到事實上這是在洛杉磯他們甚至模仿我們的綠點設計那原先是我們在街道上的創意但我無法再多加強調到底能讓你們進展多快以傳統施工的方式 我們也將這種速成的方法套用在我們的自行車計畫並且在六年內將騎自行車變成一項實際的紐約大眾運輸選擇我認為這麼說也不為過（掌聲）以前要在這裡騎自行車是相當恐怖的現在紐約已經成為美國的自行車都市之一了 我們迅速地創造一個相互連接的車道網絡你可以看這張 2007 年的地圖現在 2013 年看起來是這樣在我們建造了 350 哩的街道自行車道之後我很喜歡因為它看起來真簡單你只要點一下滑鼠，它們就出現在那兒了我們也引進新的街道設計方法我們首創停車保護自行車道在美國 （掌聲） 我們藉由流動停車道來保護自行車騎士效果非常好自行車數量爆增對所有用路人，行人、自行車騎士、開車的人的傷害都下降了 50%我們已經建造了 30 哩長的自行車專用道現在你可以看見這些自行車道如雨後春筍出現在全國各地你會發現這個策略是有效的這條藍線代表騎自行車的人數正快速增加綠色的線代表自行車車道的數量而黃線代表受傷人數基本上都是維持水平你發現這麼大的成長之後受傷人數淨值並未增長所以這裡的公理就是這些數據是安全的 並不是每個人都喜歡這些新的自行車道過去曾發生過一件訴訟案幾年前引發媒體狂熱某家布魯克林報紙將這條設在展望公園西側的自行車道稱作是「加薩走廊之外競爭最激烈的一塊土地」 （笑聲） 而這是我們完成的所以如果你看完標題後繼續往下看你會發現熱衷民眾遠勝於記者、遠勝於政治人物事實上我認為多數政治人物會很開心有這樣的民調數字有 64% 的紐約人支持這些自行車道 今年夏天我們開始施行 Citi Bike〔譯註︰Citi Bike 為紐約市的公用自行車系統〕這是美國規模最大的自行車分享計畫有六千輛自行車與 330 個站點，每個站點都彼此相鄰從我們開始施行這項計畫以來騎乘次數已達三百萬趟共七百萬哩相當於繞了地球 280 圈所以只要有這把藍色小鑰匙你就能開啟通往城市的鑰匙與斬新交通運輸的選擇 每日使用率不斷攀升現在平均每日騎乘次數在紐約街上是三萬六千人次目前最高紀錄是八月，有四萬四千人次昨天在紐約有四萬人使用 Citi Bike這些腳踏車平均一日被使用六次我想你也有看到這樣的騎士騎在街上過去，就像左邊這張照片裡的人一樣穿得像忍者的自行車信差而今天，自行車騎士彷彿是紐約市的樣貌很多樣化的 - 年輕人、年長者、黑人朋友、白人朋友女人、小孩，都在騎腳踏車這是個經濟實惠、安全又方便的代步方式相當根本的方式 我們也將這種方法套用在公車系統上紐約市有北美最大規模的公車車隊但車速卻是北美最慢的大家都知道的用步行的方式從城的一邊到另一邊比搭公車還要快所以我們著重在紐約最擁擠的區域建造六條公車快速運輸路線57 哩的新公車快速車道上公車之前先在自助式服務亭付費我們設有專用車道以防汽車進入因為他們會被照相開罰單若他們開進那條車道這項措施非常成功 我認為我最喜歡的時刻之一就是身為一位運輸委員我們開辦 Citi Bike 的那天我騎 Citi Bike 上第一大道騎在我規劃的自行車專用道上我四處看看，而我看到行人安全地站在行人島上車潮川流不息鳥兒在歌唱（笑聲）公車在專用車道上加速行駛感覺真的很棒 而六年前看起來是這個樣子的 所以我認為我們從紐約這個例子學到的就是快速改變街道是可以辦到的這麼做並不昂貴也能立即見效大家也非常喜歡你只需要重新想像街道而那就隱身在我們的眼前 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
