Talk	en	zh-tw
jared_diamond_how_societies_can_grow_old_better	To give me an idea of how many of you here may find what I'm about to tell you of practical value, let me ask you please to raise your hands: Who here is either over 65 years old or hopes to live past age 65 or has parents or grandparents who did live or have lived past 65, raise your hands please. (Laughter) Okay. You are the people to whom my talk will be of practical value. (Laughter) The rest of you won't find my talk personally relevant, but I think that you will still find the subject fascinating. I'm going to talk about growing older in traditional societies. This subject constitutes just one chapter of my latest book, which compares traditional, small, tribal societies with our large, modern societies, with respect to many topics such as bringing up children, growing older, health, dealing with danger, settling disputes, religion and speaking more than one language. Those tribal societies, which constituted all human societies for most of human history, are far more diverse than are our modern, recent, big societies. All big societies that have governments, and where most people are strangers to each other, are inevitably similar to each other and different from tribal societies. Tribes constitute thousands of natural experiments in how to run a human society. They constitute experiments from which we ourselves may be able to learn. Tribal societies shouldn't be scorned as primitive and miserable, but also they shouldn't be romanticized as happy and peaceful. When we learn of tribal practices, some of them will horrify us, but there are other tribal practices which, when we hear about them, we may admire and envy and wonder whether we could adopt those practices ourselves. Most old people in the U.S. end up living separately from their children and from most of their friends of their earlier years, and often they live in separate retirements homes for the elderly, whereas in traditional societies, older people instead live out their lives among their children, their other relatives, and their lifelong friends. Nevertheless, the treatment of the elderly varies enormously among traditional societies, from much worse to much better than in our modern societies. At the worst extreme, many traditional societies get rid of their elderly in one of four increasingly direct ways: by neglecting their elderly and not feeding or cleaning them until they die, or by abandoning them when the group moves, or by encouraging older people to commit suicide, or by killing older people. In which tribal societies do children abandon or kill their parents? It happens mainly under two conditions. One is in nomadic, hunter-gather societies that often shift camp and that are physically incapable of transporting old people who can't walk when the able-bodied younger people already have to carry their young children and all their physical possessions. The other condition is in societies living in marginal or fluctuating environments, such as the Arctic or deserts, where there are periodic food shortages, and occasionally there just isn't enough food to keep everyone alive. Whatever food is available has to be reserved for able-bodied adults and for children. To us Americans, it sounds horrible to think of abandoning or killing your own sick wife or husband or elderly mother or father, but what could those traditional societies do differently? They face a cruel situation of no choice. Their old people had to do it to their own parents, and the old people know what now is going to happen to them. At the opposite extreme in treatment of the elderly, the happy extreme, are the New Guinea farming societies where I've been doing my fieldwork  for the past 50 years, and most other sedentary traditional societies around the world. In those societies, older people are cared for. They are fed. They remain valuable. And they continue to live in the same hut or else in a nearby hut near their children, relatives and lifelong friends. There are two main sets of reasons for this variation among societies in their treatment of old people. The variation depends especially on the usefulness of old people and on the society's values. First, as regards usefulness, older people continue to perform useful services. One use of older people in traditional societies is that they often are still effective at producing food. Another traditional usefulness of older people is that they are capable of babysitting their grandchildren, thereby freeing up their own adult children, the parents of those grandchildren, to go hunting and gathering food for the grandchildren. Still another traditional value of older people is in making tools, weapons, baskets, pots and textiles. In fact, they're usually the people who are best at it. Older people usually are the leaders of traditional societies, and the people most knowledgeable about politics, medicine, religion, songs and dances. Finally, older people in traditional societies have a huge significance that would never occur to us in our modern, literate societies, where our sources of information are books and the Internet. In contrast, in traditional societies without writing, older people are the repositories of information. It's their knowledge that spells the difference between survival and death for their whole society in a time of crisis caused by rare events for which only the oldest people alive have had experience. Those, then, are the ways in which older people are useful in traditional societies. Their usefulness varies and contributes to variation in the society's treatment of the elderly. The other set of reasons for variation in the treatment of the elderly is the society's cultural values. For example, there's particular emphasis on respect for the elderly in East Asia, associated with Confucius' doctrine of filial piety, which means obedience, respect and support for elderly parents. Cultural values that emphasize respect for older people contrast with the low status of the elderly in the U.S. Older Americans are at a big disadvantage in job applications. They're at a big disadvantage in hospitals. Our hospitals have an explicit policy called age-based allocation of healthcare resources. That sinister expression means that if hospital resources are limited, for example if only one donor heart becomes available for transplant, or if a surgeon has time to operate on only a certain number of patients, American hospitals have an explicit policy of giving preference to younger patients over older patients on the grounds that younger patients are considered more valuable to society because they have more years of life ahead of them, even though the younger patients have fewer years of valuable life experience behind them. There are several reasons for this low status of the elderly in the U.S. One is our Protestant work ethic which places high value on work, so older people who are no longer working aren't respected. Another reason is our American emphasis on the virtues of self-reliance and independence, so we instinctively look down on older people who are no longer self-reliant and independent. Still a third reason is our American cult of youth, which shows up even in our advertisements. Ads for Coca-Cola and beer always depict smiling young people, even though old as well as young people buy and drink Coca-Cola and beer. Just think, what's the last time you saw a Coke or beer ad depicting smiling people 85 years old? Never. Instead, the only American ads featuring white-haired old people are ads for retirement homes and pension planning. Well, what has changed in the status of the elderly today compared to their status in traditional societies? There have been a few changes for the better and more changes for the worse. Big changes for the better include the fact that today we enjoy much longer lives, much better health in our old age, and much better recreational opportunities. Another change for the better is that we now have specialized retirement facilities and programs to take care of old people. Changes for the worse begin with the cruel reality that we now have more old people and fewer young people than at any time in the past. That means that all those old people are more of a burden on the few young people, and that each old person has less individual value. Another big change for the worse in the status of the elderly is the breaking of social ties with age, because older people, their children, and their friends, all move and scatter independently of each other many times during their lives. We Americans move on the average every five years. Hence our older people are likely to end up living distant from their children and the friends of their youth. Yet another change for the worse in the status of the elderly is formal retirement from the workforce, carrying with it a loss of work friendships and a loss of the self-esteem associated with work. Perhaps the biggest change for the worse is that our elderly are objectively less useful than in traditional societies. Widespread literacy means that they are no longer useful as repositories of knowledge. When we want some information, we look it up in a book or we Google it instead of finding some old person to ask. The slow pace of technological change in traditional societies means that what someone learns there as a child is still useful when that person is old, but the rapid pace of technological change today means that what we learn as children is no longer useful 60 years later. And conversely, we older people are not fluent in the technologies essential for surviving in modern society. For example, as a 15-year-old, I was considered outstandingly good at multiplying numbers because I had memorized the multiplication tables and I know how to use logarithms and I'm quick at manipulating a slide rule. Today, though, those skills are utterly useless because any idiot can now multiply eight-digit numbers accurately and instantly with a pocket calculator. Conversely, I at age 75 am incompetent at skills essential for everyday life. My family's first TV set in 1948 had only three knobs that I quickly mastered: an on-off switch, a volume knob, and a channel selector knob. Today, just to watch a program on the TV set in my own house, I have to operate a 41-button TV remote that utterly defeats me. I have to telephone my 25-year-old sons and ask them to talk me through it while I try to push those wretched 41 buttons. What can we do to improve the lives of the elderly in the U.S., and to make better use of their value? That's a huge problem. In my remaining four minutes today, I can offer just a few suggestions. One value of older people is that they are increasingly useful as grandparents for offering high-quality childcare to their grandchildren, if they choose to do it, as more young women enter the workforce and as fewer young parents of either gender stay home as full-time caretakers of their children. Compared to the usual alternatives of paid babysitters and day care centers, grandparents offer superior, motivated, experienced child care. They've already gained experience from raising their own children. They usually love their grandchildren, and are eager to spend time with them. Unlike other caregivers, grandparents don't quit their job because they found another job with higher pay looking after another baby. A second value of older people is paradoxically related to their loss of value as a result of changing world conditions and technology. At the same time, older people have gained in value today precisely because of their unique experience of living conditions that have now become rare because of rapid change, but that could come back. For example, only Americans now in their 70s or older today can remember the experience of living through a great depression, the experience of living through a world war, and agonizing whether or not dropping atomic bombs would be more horrible than the likely consequences of not dropping atomic bombs. Most of our current voters and politicians have no personal experience of any of those things, but millions of older Americans do. Unfortunately, all of those terrible situations could come back. Even if they don't come back, we have to be able to plan for them on the basis of the experience of what they were like. Older people have that experience. Younger people don't. The remaining value of older people that I'll mention involves recognizing that while there are many things that older people can no longer do, there are other things that they can do better than younger people. A challenge for society is  to make use of those things that older people are better at doing. Some abilities, of course, decrease with age. Those include abilities at tasks requiring physical strength and stamina, ambition, and the power of novel reasoning in a circumscribed situation, such as figuring out the structure of DNA, best left to scientists under the age of 30. Conversely, valuable attributes that increase with age include experience, understanding of people and human relationships, ability to help other people without your own ego getting in the way, and interdisciplinary thinking about large databases, such as economics and comparative history, best left to scholars over the age of 60. Hence older people are much better than younger people at supervising, administering, advising, strategizing, teaching, synthesizing, and devising long-term plans. I've seen this value of older people with so many of my friends in their 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, who are still active as investment managers, farmers, lawyers and doctors. In short, many traditional societies make better use of their elderly and give their elderly more satisfying lives than we do in modern, big societies. Paradoxically nowadays, when we have more elderly people than ever before, living healthier lives and with better medical care than ever before, old age is in some respects more miserable than ever before. The lives of the elderly are widely recognized as constituting a disaster area of modern American society. We can surely do better by learning from the lives of the elderly in traditional societies. But what's true of the lives of the elderly in traditional societies is true of many other features of traditional societies as well. Of course, I'm not advocating that we all give up agriculture and metal tools and return to a hunter-gatherer lifestyle. There are many obvious respects in which our lives today are far happier than those in small, traditional societies. To mention just a few examples, our lives are longer, materially much richer, and less plagued by violence than are the lives of people in traditional societies. But there are also things to be admired about people in traditional societies, and perhaps to be learned from them. Their lives are usually socially much richer than our lives, although materially poorer. Their children are more self-confident, more independent, and more socially skilled than are our children. They think more realistically about dangers than we do. They almost never die of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and the other noncommunicable diseases that will be the causes of death of almost all of us in this room today. Features of the modern lifestyle predispose us to those diseases, and features of the traditional lifestyle protect us against them. Those are just some examples of what we can learn from traditional societies. I hope that you will find it as fascinating to read about traditional societies as I found it to live in those societies. Thank you. (Applause)	請大家表示意見 現場有多少人可能發現我要演講的主題就是「實用價值」我想請問各位一個問題有符合描述的人請舉手在場有誰超過65歲誰希望活超過65歲有父母或祖父母生前或現在超過65歲的人請舉手(笑聲) 好 你們就是那些會覺得我的演講很實用的人(笑聲)其餘的人可能會覺得我的演講與自己沒有關係但是我認為你們還是會覺得這次主題很吸引人 我今天的演講主題是在傳統社會裡年紀增長的議題這個主題只是我新書當中的其中一個章節我的新書是將傳統社會、小型社會、部落社會與我們大型的現代社會比較還有許多主題像是撫養小孩人口高齡化、健康問題、危機處理解決紛爭、宗教議題還有語言多樣性等主題 在人類歷史上可以常看到這種部落社會在人類歷史上可以常看到這種部落社會這種社會比我們近期的大型現代社會更加多元化所有大型社會都有政府組織在這種社會裡多數民眾對彼此都很生疏每種大型社會都很類似但是又與部落社會不同部落社會是經由大自然千錘百鍊的試驗得出人類社會最佳的運作方式他們所建構出的這些實驗也許我們能從這些實驗學到一些東西我們不應該嘲笑部落社會是一種很落後、原始的社會但也不能將其美化成是一個快樂安寧的社會我們聽說某些部落習俗的時候有些習俗可能會嚇到我們但是其他的部落習俗我們聽到的時候我們可能會很羨慕然後遲疑我們自己是否也能採納那些方法 在美國多數的老人在臨走前都沒有和他們的小孩住在一起沒有與多數早年的朋友保持聯繫通常他們都住在養老院養老院是屬於傳統社會年紀較長的長輩反而是與他們的小孩住在一起 和其他親戚常有交流常終身好友互動往來不過對待老年人的方式在各種傳統社會型態上有著很大的差異相較於我們現代社會對待老年人的情況狀況是從「極差」到「極佳」都有 最糟糕的情況就是許多傳統社會棄養老年人逐年增長的四大直接了當的方式包括:對老年人漠不關心不餵他們吃飯到他們死前也不幫他們洗澡拋棄他們勸老年人自己了結生命殺害老年人部落社會裡的小孩真的會棄養或殺害他們的雙親嗎?會發生此等情事主要有兩種情況其中一個就是游牧的狩獵採集社會這種社會常常遷徙實際上沒有餘力帶上不便行走的老年人當身強體健的年輕人準備要帶上他們的小孩和他們所有財產移動的時候另外一種情況就是生活在邊緣的社會或經常變動的環境之下像是北極地區、沙漠地帶都常出現週期性食物短缺的狀態偶爾也會發生糧食不足的情況無法養活每一個人不管食物是否足夠都必須留給健康的成年人和小孩食用對我們美國人來說要棄養或殺害自己患有重病的老婆、丈夫或年邁的父母這種事情聽起來很恐怖但是那些傳統社會能有什麼不一樣的做法嗎?他們面臨一種很殘酷的情況毫無選擇餘地他們的老年人也得以同樣的方式對待他們自己的父母老年人知道接下來會降臨在他們身上的事情 另外一種對待老年人的作法上是一個極端狀態就是「非常好」新幾內亞的農業社會對老年人非常好我在當地研究超過50年也研究大多數世界上固有的傳統社會在那些社會中老年人都有得到妥善照顧都有人會餵飯給他們吃他們還是有生存的價值也都還是住在同一間房子或是住在小孩親戚或終身好友的附近 這種變化有兩組主要原因在各社會型態對其他老年人的方式這種變化特別是取決於老年人是否還有利用價值還有該社會的價值 首先 關於利用價值老年人持續做出有用的貢獻傳統社會中老年人的其中一個作用就是通常他們仍然對生產食物有一定的影響力另一個老年人傳統上的利用價值就是他們能夠照顧他們的孫子女讓他們長大成人的兒女也就是他們孫子女的父母能放心去打獵或採集食物給小孩吃老年人還有另一個傳統價值就是製造工具、武器、竹籃鍋、壺、紡織品等實際上他們通常都是最會做這些東西的人老年人通常都扮演著傳統社會的領導者他們也對政治、醫學、宗教、歌謠與舞蹈非常博學多聞 最後 傳統社會的老年人具有一種重要性那種重要性在現代文明社會我們絕對想像不到在文明社會裡我們資訊的來源都是依靠書籍與網際網路相較之下在沒有以文字傳遞訊息的傳統社會裡老年人就是一座資訊寶庫靠著他們的知識拼湊出整個社會對於生死之間觀念的差異在一段時間由少數事件所導致的危機只有現在活著的老年人已經經歷過的那些生活方式都使傳統社會的年長者存有利用價值他們還能做很多事也能改善社會對待老年人的方式 另一項會造成對待老年人的方式有所差異的原因就是該社會的文化價值例如 有個特別的重點在東亞的老年人的觀念裡與儒家思想中的孝道有關盡孝道的意思是指要服從尊長尊敬長者 扶持長輩強調尊重長輩的文化價值與不太重視老年人的美國文化形成對比美國的老年人有著很大的劣勢在應徵工作的時候醫院也對他們不太友善我們的醫院有一項明確的政策叫做「依照年齡分配醫療資源方案」講不好聽一點就是如果醫療資源有限例如 如果只有一顆捐贈的心臟能夠進行移植或者如果一位外科醫生在僅限的時間之內只能為一定數量的病人動手術美國的醫院有一項明確的政策讓較年輕的病患先進行手術較年長的病患則慢一點因為他們認為年輕的病患對社會來說比較有價值因為他們還能活的時間比較長雖然年輕病患有的寶貴的生活經驗不及老年人造成美國人不太尊重老年人的情況有幾個原因其中一個原因就是我們的「新教倫理」「新教倫理」非常重視工作所以無法工作老年人就得不到別人的尊敬另一個原因就是我們美國人強調要有自力更生、獨立自主的美德所以我們就會以直覺來看待老年人而老年人通常都需要別人來照顧第三個原因就是我們美國人崇拜「青春能量」這種情況就連在我們的電視廣告裡都可以看見可口可樂和啤酒的廣告都可以看到有年輕人開懷大笑即使不論老少都會買可口可樂和啤酒來喝試想一下 上次你看到可口可樂或是啤酒的廣告當中有一位85歲的老人在對你微笑絕對沒有反而只有美國的廣告當中出現白髮蒼蒼的老人這些都是老人院和退休金規畫的廣告 是什麼力量改變今天老年人的狀態相較於他們在傳統社會的狀態?有少數部份變得比較好但多數部份變的更差了大幅度的改變帶來更好的生活包括今天我們能享有更長的壽命我們老的時候比前人更健康有更好休養生息的機會另一項好的改變就是我們現在有專門設置的養老設施與照料計畫去照顧老年人不好的改變就是來自於殘酷的現實我們現在的老年人更多但年輕人更少情況比從前任何時候都還嚴重那就表示因為老年人口較多而年輕人口較少使得年輕人的負擔更重了也表示每位老年人的個人價值下降了對於老年人的狀態方面另一項不好的大改變就是隨年齡增長而疏離社會聯繫因為年長者、他們的小孩他們的朋友每個人都是獨自行動、散居各地在他們的一生中平均每五年我們美國人就會搬一次家因此我們的長者可能到死都沒有和他們的小孩朋友在一起生活對於老年人的狀態方面另一項不好的大改變就是正式從職場退休同時表示會失去同事情誼也會失去在工作方面的自我抱負也許最大最糟糕的改變就是現代我們老年人客觀上比傳統社會的老年人更沒有幫助普遍能力顯示他們不再像是座知識寶庫般有用我們想要找某種資訊的時候我們會從書裡面尋找 或上Google查詢而不是去問一些老年人在傳統社會 科技進步的步伐很慢在傳統社會 科技進步的步伐很慢表示傳統社會裡小時候所學的東西到老都還是有用的但是現今科技快速進步也就表示我們小時候所學的東西六十年過後已經不堪使用相反地我們老年人無法以科技技術當作生存技能在現代社會謀生例如 我在十五歲的時候大家都覺得我在多重完全數方面運算很厲害因為我有背乘法表而且我知道對數函數的使用方法用計算尺我可以很快時至今日 這些技能完全都沒用了因為任何一個白痴靠著口袋型計算機 現在都可以乘上八位數絕對準確無誤 而且馬上就能知道答案相反地 我現在七十五歲就連在基本的每日生活技能方面都無法與他人競爭1948年 我家第一次裝了電視只有三個旋鈕 我很快就搞懂了一個開/關機鈕、一個音量控制鈕一個頻道選擇鈕今天 只是要看一個電視節目用我自己家裡的電視機收看我就一定要用一台有41個按鍵的電視遙控器真的是考倒我了我還要打電話給我25歲的兒子透過電話問他們操作方法當我在試按那41個討厭的按鍵的時候 我們能做的就是改善美國老年人的生活善加利用他們的價值那真是個大問題在我今天演講剩下的四分鐘內我會提出一些建議第一項老年人的價值就是他們能逐漸展現自己的價值當祖父母能為自己子女提供優質的育兒照顧的時候讓他們能夠含飴弄孫如果他們真的想幫忙照顧的話當更多年輕女性進入工作職場當越來越少的年輕父母 不論是爸爸或媽媽能在家全天候照顧他們的小孩相較於常見的替代方案就是花錢請保母或將小孩送到托兒所祖父母則能以優質環境 積極的態度以及豐富的經驗來照顧小孩從養育自己的小孩他們就已經有過經驗祖父母通常都很喜歡他們的孫子女也很希望能夠花時間陪他們不像其他居家照顧服務員祖父母不會辭職只因為找到另一份更高薪的看護工作這麼說有點自相矛盾第二項老年人的價值是與他們失去的自我價值有關由於世界情勢改變和科技日新月異同時 更準確來說今天的老年人越來越有價值因為他們體會過的特殊生活情況對於現在來說是很罕見的因為社會快速變遷但是這種情況還是有可能再次發生例如 現在只有70歲或70歲以上的老年人會記得經濟大蕭條時期的生活經驗世界大戰時期的生活經驗那個時代的人們都生活在痛苦與掙扎之中不管投下原子彈會不會比沒有投下原子彈所造成的後果更恐怖現今我們多數的選民與政治人物都沒有上述的那種個人生活經驗但是數百萬計的美國老年人卻有這種經驗不幸的是 所有糟糕的生活清況都有可能捲土重來即使不會再發生我們必須也要有能力為這些情況作準備透過長輩過去的生活經驗來當參考老年人有那種經驗年輕人卻沒有 老年人其餘的價值我會提到像是 我們都知道有許多事情老年人都做不到而在那些之外的事情上他們做得比年輕人更好我們的社會就是該嘗試利用老年人擅長做的事情當然 有些能力會隨年紀遞減當中包括各種工作技能像是需要體力、耐力抱負與新穎的推論能力在受到限制的情況之下像是計算出DNA的結構這種工作最好還是留給30歲以下的科學家相反地 有些很重要、珍貴的特性只會隨著年紀增長而出現就像是經驗看人的眼光、人際關係幫助其他人的能力不會受到自尊心的攪亂與跨領域的大範圍思考模式像是經濟學與比較歷史學最好還是留給60歲以上的學者因此老年人比年輕成更擅長於監督、管理、勸告謀略、教導、綜合事項策劃長期計畫我見識過這種老年人的價值在我許多60歲70、80、90歲左右的朋友身上他們現在都還很活躍有的是當投資經理人也有農夫、律師和醫生簡言之 許多傳統社會能夠有效利用老年人給予老年人更滿意的生活環境比我們現代的大社會環境還要好 矛盾的是我們現在的老年人口比以前更多生活環境與條件比從前更好也有更好的醫療照護但是現在老年人比以前更不受到尊重大家普遍認為老年人的生活就像在現代美國社會的災區裡面我們該學學老年人在傳統社會裡扮演的角色一定能從中獲益但是適用於傳統社會老年人的生活型態但是適用於傳統社會老年人的生活型態也適用於其他各式傳統社會也適用於其他各式傳統社會當然 我並不主張說我們全然放棄拿著金屬器具下田耕作回歸狩獵、採集的生活型態現在有許多明顯的觀點就是我們現在的生活遠比小型的傳統社會還要快樂就提幾個例子我們的壽命越來越長物質方面也比較富裕也較少有暴力事件的發生比那些生活在傳統社會的人還好但是生活在傳統社會的人們也有一些令人稱羨的事也許我們也能從中學習他們的社交生活通常比我們的還要好雖然他們的物質生活比較不好傳統社會的小孩通常比較有自信更獨立自主 更具社交技巧比我們現代的小孩來說對於危險事物 他們的想法比我們更實際他們幾乎沒有因罹患糖尿病、心臟病中風或是其他非傳染性疾病而死今天幾乎我們所有人都會因罹患非傳染性疾病而死亡現代生活型態的特性就是我們很容易感染這些疾病但傳統生活型態的特性卻可以保護我們免受這些疾病的侵害 這幾項例子都是我們能從傳統社會上學到的東西祝您讀到本書中的傳統社會時展閱愉快 身心獲益就像我對住在傳統社會的老人一樣 感到驚奇無比 謝謝你 (掌聲)
