Talk	en	zh-tw
jay_silver_hack_a_banana_make_a_keyboard	"Hey guys. It's funny, someone just mentioned MacGyver, because that was, like, I loved it, and when I was seven, I taped a fork to a drill and I was like, ""Hey, Mom, I'm going to Olive Garden."" And — (Drilling noise) (Laughter) And it worked really well there. And you know, it had a profound effect on me. It sounds silly, but I thought, okay, the way the world works can be changed, and it can be changed by me in these small ways. And my relationship to especially human-made objects which someone else said they work like this, well, I can say they work a different way, a little bit. And so, about 20 years later, I didn't realize the full effect of this, but I went to Costa Rica and I stayed with these Guaymí natives there, and they could pull leaves off of trees and make shingles out of them, and they could make beds out of trees, and they could — I watched this woman for three days. I was there. She was peeling this palm frond apart, these little threads off of it, and she'd roll the threads together and make little thicker threads, like strings, and she would weave the strings together, and as the materiality of this exact very bag formed before my eyes over those three days, the materiality of the way the world works, of reality, kind of started to unravel in my mind, because I realized that this bag and these clothes and the trampoline you have at home and the pencil sharpener, everything you have is made out of either a tree or a rock or something we dug out of the ground and did some process to, maybe a more complicated one, but still, everything was made that way. And so I had to start studying, who is it that's making these decisions? Who's making these things? How did they make them? What stops us from making them? Because this is how reality is created. So I started right away. I was at MIT Media Lab, and I was studying the maker movement and makers and creativity. And I started in nature, because I saw these Guaymís doing it in nature, and there just seems to be less barriers. So I went to Vermont to Not Back to School Camp, where there's unschoolers who are just kind of hanging out and willing to try anything. So I said, ""Let's go into the woods near this stream and just put stuff together, you know, make something, I don't care, geometrical shapes, just grab some junk from around you. We won't bring anything with us. And, like, within minutes, this is very easy for adults and teens to do. Here's a triangle that was being formed underneath a flowing stream, and the shape of an oak leaf being made by other small oak leaves being put together. A leaf tied to a stick with a blade of grass. The materiality and fleshiness and meat of the mushroom being explored by how it can hold up different objects being stuck into it. And after about 45 minutes, you get really intricate projects like leaves sorted by hue, so you get a color fade and put in a circle like a wreath. And the creator of this, he said, ""This is fire. I call this fire."" And someone asked him, ""How do you get those sticks to stay on that tree?"" And he's like, ""I don't know, but I can show you."" And I'm like, ""Wow, that's really amazing. He doesn't know, but he can show you."" So his hands know and his intuition knows, but sometimes what we know gets in the way of what could be, especially when it comes to the human-made, human-built world. We think we already know how something works, so we can't imagine how it could work. We know how it's supposed to work, so we can't suppose all the things that could be possible. So kids don't have as hard of a time with this, and I saw in my own son, I gave him this book. I'm a good hippie dad, so I'm like, ""Okay, you're going to learn to love the moon. I'm going to give you some building blocks and they're nonrectilinear cactus building blocks, so it's totally legit."" But he doesn't really know what to do with these. I didn't show him. And so he's like, ""Okay, I'll just mess around with this."" This is no different than the sticks are to the teens in the forest. Just going to try to put them in shapes and push on them and stuff. And before long, he's kind of got this mechanism where you can almost launch and catapult objects around, and he enlists us in helping him. And at this point, I'm starting to wonder, what kind of tools can we give people, especially adults, who know too much, so that they can see the world as malleable, so they see themselves as agents of change in their everyday lives. Because the most advanced scientists are really just kind of pushing the way the world itself works, pushing what matter can do, the most advanced artists are just pushing the medium, and any sufficiently complicated task, whether you're a cook or a carpenter or you're raising a child — anything that's complicated — comes up with problems that aren't solved in the middle of it, and you can't do a good job getting it done unless you can say, ""Okay, well we're just going to have to refigure this. I don't care that pencils are supposed to be for writing. I'm going to use them a different way."" So let me show you a little demo. This is a little piano circuit right in here, and this is an ordinary paintbrush that I smashed it together with. (Beeping) And so, with some ketchup, — (musical notes) — and then I can kind of — (musical notes) — (Laughter) (Applause) And that's awesome, right? But this is not what's awesome. What's awesome is what happens when you give the piano circuit to people. A pencil is not just a pencil. Look what it has in the middle of it. That's a wire running down the middle, and not only is it a wire, if you take that piano circuit, you can thumbtack into the middle of a pencil, and you can lay out wire on the page, too, and get electrical current to run through it. And so you can kind of hack a pencil, just by thumbtacking into it with a little piano electrical circuit. And the electricity runs through your body too. And then you can take the little piano circuit off the pencil. You can make one of these brushes just on the fly. All you do is connect to the bristles, and the bristles are wet, so they conduct, and the person's body conducts, and leather is great to paint on, and then you can start hooking to everything, even the kitchen sink. The metal in the sink is conductive. Flowing water acts like a theremin or a violin. (Musical notes) And you can even hook to the trees. Anything in the world is either conductive or not conductive, and you can use those together. So — (Laughter) — I took this to those same teens, because those teens are really awesome, and they'll try things that I won't try. I don't even have access to a facial piercing if I wanted to. And this young woman, she made what she called a hula-looper, and as the hula hoop traveled around her body, she has a circuit taped to her shirt right there. You can see her pointing to it in the picture. And every time the hula hoop would smush against her body, it would connect two little pieces of copper tape, and it would make a sound, and the next sound, and it would loop the same sounds over and over again. I ran these workshops everywhere. In Taiwan, at an art museum, this 12-year-old girl made a mushroom organ out of some mushrooms that were from Taiwan and some electrical tape and hot glue. And professional designers were making artifacts with this thing strapped onto it. And big companies like Intel or smaller design firms like Ideo or startups like Bump, were inviting me to give workshops, just to practice this idea of smashing electronics and everyday objects together. And then we came up with this idea to not just use electronics, but let's just smash computers with everyday objects and see how that goes over. And so I just want to do a quick demo. So this is the MaKey MaKey circuit, and I'm just going to set it up from the beginning in front of you. So I'll just plug it in, and now it's on by USB. And I'll just hook up the forward arrow. You guys are facing that way, so I'll hook it to this one. And I'll just hook up a little ground wire to it. And now, if I touch this piece of pizza, the slides that I showed you before should go forward. And now if I hook up this wire just by connecting it to the left arrow, I'm kind of programming it by where I hook it up, now I have a left arrow and a right arrow, so I should be able to go forwards and backwards and forwards and backwards. Awesome. And so we're like, ""We gotta put a video out about this."" Because no one really believed that this was important or meaningful except me and, like, one other guy. So we made a video to prove that there's lots of stuff you can do. You can kind of sketch with Play-Doh and just Google for game controllers. Just ordinary Play-Doh, nothing special. And you can literally draw joysticks and just find Pacman on your computer and then just hook it up. (Video game noises) And you know the little plastic drawers you can get at Target? Well, if you take those out, they hold water great, but you can totally cut your toes, so yeah, just be careful. You know the Happiness Project, where the experts are setting up the piano stairs, and how cool that is? Well, I think it's cool, but we should be doing that stuff ourselves. It shouldn't be a set of experts engineering the way the world works. We should all be participating in changing the way the world works together. Aluminum foil. Everybody has a cat. Get a bowl of water. This is just Photo Booth on your Mac OS. Hover the mouse over the ""take a photo"" button, and you've got a little cat photo booth. And so we needed hundreds of people to buy this. If hundreds of people didn't buy this, we couldn't put it on the market. And so we put it up on Kickstarter, and hundreds of people bought it in the first day. And then 30 days later, 11,000 people had backed the project. And then what the best part is, we started getting a flood of videos in of people doing crazy things with it. So this is ""The Star-Spangled Banner"" by eating lunch, including drinking Listerine. And we actually sent this guy materials. We're like, ""We're sponsoring you, man. You're, like, a pro maker."" Okay, just wait for this one. This is good. (Laughter) (Applause) And these guys at the exploratorium are playing house plants as if they were drums. And dads and daughters are completing circuits in special ways. And then this brother — look at this diagram. See where it says ""sister""? I love when people put humans on the diagram. I always add humans to any technical — if you're drawing a technical diagram, put a human in it. And this kid is so sweet. He made this trampoline slideshow advancer for his sister so that on her birthday, she could be the star of the show, jumping on the trampoline to advance the slides. And this guy rounded up his dogs and he made a dog piano. And this is fun, and what could be more useful than feeling alive and fun? But it's also very serious because all this accessibility stuff started coming up, where people can't use computers, necessarily. Like this dad who wrote us, his son has cerebral palsy and he can't use a normal keyboard. And so his dad couldn't necessarily afford to buy all these custom controllers. And so, with the MaKey MaKey, he planned to make these gloves to allow him to navigate the web. And a huge eruption of discussion around accessibility came, and we're really excited about that. We didn't plan for that at all. And then all these professional musicians started using it, like at Coachella, just this weekend Jurassic 5 was using this onstage, and this D.J. is just from Brooklyn, right around here, and he put this up last month. And I love the carrot on the turntable. (Music: Massive Attack — ""Teardrop"") Most people cannot play them that way. (Laughter) And when this started to get serious, I thought, I'd better put a really serious warning label on the box that this comes in, because otherwise people are going to be getting this and they're going to be turning into agents of creative change, and governments will be crumbling, and I wouldn't have told people, so I thought I'd better warn them. And I also put this little surprise. When you open the lid of the box, it says, ""The world is a construction kit."" And as you start to mess around this way, I think that, in some small ways, you do start to see the landscape of your everyday life a little bit more like something you could express yourself with, and a little bit more like you could participate in designing the future of the way the world works. And so next time you're on an escalator and you drop an M&M by accident, you know, maybe that's an M&M surfboard, not an escalator, so don't pick it up right away. Maybe take some more stuff out of your pockets and throw it down, and maybe some chapstick, whatever. I used to want to design a utopian society or a perfect world or something like that. But as I'm kind of getting older and kind of messing with all this stuff, I'm realizing that my idea of a perfect world really can't be designed by one person or even by a million experts. It's really going to be seven billion pairs of hands, each following their own passions, and each kind of like a mosaic coming up and creating this world in their backyards and in their kitchens. And that's the world I really want to live in. Thank you. (Applause)"	嗨，大家好！很有趣，有人剛剛提到了馬蓋先因為我超愛他七歲的時候，我用膠布把叉子綑在鑽孔機上然後說：「媽，我要到橄欖園餐廳去。」然後－－（鑽孔聲）（笑聲）它運作得挺不錯的這對我有很深的影響聽起來很蠢，但是我那時候想，嗯世界運作的方式也可能被改變而且能被我用小小的方式改變我和事物的關係－－特別是那些人工作出來的東西－－當別人說它們是這樣運作的我則會說它們可以以別的方式運作 因此，大約二十年後，我還不知道這件事對我的影響，我去了趟哥斯大黎加和當地的瓜伊米部族住在一起，他們會取下樹葉，然後做成屋頂也會用樹木作床還會－－我觀察一名婦女觀察了三天我在那兒，她把棕櫚葉剝成一條條，成了細小的絲線，再將絲線纏在一起作成一條條更粗一些的線，像繩子一樣然後她編織這些細繩，成了這個包包的材料就在我眼前，以三天的時間形成，這個世界運作的方式現實運作的方式，開始在我腦中清晰起來，因為我發現，這個包包、這些衣物你家裡的跳床和削鉛筆機，你所擁有的一切，不是由一棵樹製成，就是從一顆石頭作來要不，便是我們從地下挖出某樣東西，再經過一些加工得來也許過程更複雜，但所有的東西仍是如此製造而成 所以我就開始研究，是誰做這些決定的？是誰作出這些東西的？他們又是如何製作的？為何我們不再製造它們？因為這是現實被創造出來的方式所以我立即開始我在MIT媒體研究團隊研究製造者的活動、製造者本身和創造力我從大自然起頭，因為我看見那些瓜伊米人從大自然取材造物而大自然裡似乎較少阻礙 我到佛蒙特州的「不返校」營隊在那兒有一些沒上學的孩子遊手好閒卻願意嘗試任何事情因此我說，我們就到那小河旁的樹林裡頭把東西兜在一起，作出一些東西我不管，幾何圖形也好，只要從身旁找一些垃圾我們不帶任何東西然後，大概幾分鐘內－－這對大人和年輕人來說相當容易－－有個三角形便在流水底下形成了還有一個橡木樹葉的圖形是由其他小片的橡木樹葉拼湊在一起而成的用草綁在木棍上的葉子香菇的材質和菇肉也被拿來做實驗看看它能造出哪些不同的東西45分鐘後，一些相當精巧繁複的作品出來了像是把顏色區分後，得到的漸近色擺成一個圓圈，便成了花環 而這個作品的創作者，他說「這是火，我把它叫作火。」 有人問他：「你是怎麼讓這些木棒停留在那棵樹上的？」 他說：「我也不知道，但是我可以做給你看。」 我說：「哇！這實在是太驚人了。他不知道怎麼說，但他卻能夠做給你看。」他的手知道，他的直覺知道有時候，我們所知道的東西，就是以它可能成為的樣子得來的尤其是當我們說到人工製作、人工建造的世界我們以為我們已經知道事物是如何運作的所以我們就想不到它還能怎麼運作我們知道它應該是怎麼運作所以我們就沒想到所有的事情都是有可能的 因此孩子們就不會感到困難我自己的兒子就是如此，我給他這本書我是個嬉皮的好爸爸，我就說「好，現在你要學著愛月亮。我要給你一些積木它們是一些非直線的仙人掌積木，所以它是完全正統的。」但是他不太曉得該怎麼運用這些東西我沒有秀給他看所以他就想：「好，我就隨便亂弄吧。」這和樹林中的少年們使用那些樹枝的方式沒什麼兩樣－－試著把它們拼湊成一個形狀就對了然後在上面堆疊東西不久後，他有點抓到技巧了他發現他可以四處投擲或彈射這些物品然後他要求我們的幫助 就在這時，我開始在想在人們的日常生活中特別是那些已經知道太多道理的大人們我們能夠給予他們什麼樣的工具讓他們將世界視為可被塑造的讓他們將自己視為改變的媒介因為，大部份先進的科學家其實只是在世界本身運作的方式中開闊出一條路在事物能做到的事情上開路而大部分先進的藝術家也只是在媒介中開路任何夠複雜的任務不管你是廚師或是木匠或是在撫養孩子－－任何複雜的事情－－在實作時會遇到的問題，都無法從這些路當中獲得解決之道你無法把這些事做好，除非你說：「好，我們得重新弄清楚這回事。我不管鉛筆是不是應該被用來寫字。我要用不同的方式使用它們。」 讓我稍稍示範給你們看。這裡有一個小小的鋼琴電路板而這是一個普通的水彩筆我把兩者結合在一起（嗶嗶聲）然後，用一些番茄醬－－（樂聲）－－接著我就可以－－（樂聲）－－（笑聲）（掌聲） 這超酷的，不是嗎？但是酷的不是這個東西酷的是，當你把鋼琴電路板給了人們它所會發生的事情鉛筆不只是鉛筆看看這支筆中間有一條電線被穿在鉛筆中心它不僅是一條電線如果你將鋼琴電路板用圖釘釘入鉛筆之中你就能使這條電線延展到紙張上電流同樣會通過紙上的線所以，將一個小小的鋼琴電路板用圖釘釘入鉛筆之中，你就能改變了鉛筆的「程式」 電也會通過你的身體接著，你可以把鋼琴電路板拿走讓水彩筆開始它的「系統運作」你要做的，就只是讓刷毛通上電路刷毛是濕的，所以導電人體也能導電皮革是很好塗畫的材質然後你就可以把電路板接上所有的事物甚至是廚房的洗水槽水槽的金屬也是導電體流出來的水就會變成特雷門（一種電子樂器）或小提琴 （樂聲） 你甚至可以接在樹上世界上所有的東西不是可以導電就是無法導電你能把這些東西接在一起 因此－－（笑聲）－－我把這玩意帶給那些年輕人，因為這些小夥子真的超厲害，他們會嘗試我不會去試的事物就算我想接在鼻環耳洞之類的地方我也沒得接這個年輕女孩，她做了這個「呼拉圈」呼拉圈繞行她的身體同時她將電路板黏在衣服上如同她在這張圖中指著的地方每當呼拉圈壓過她的身體她的身體就會和呼拉圈上的兩條小銅片通電然後發出聲音，接著又有下一個聲音同樣的聲音會一次次地跟著呼拉圈循環 我到各地舉辦這些工作坊在台灣的一間美術館，這個十二歲的女孩做了一個香菇管風琴，是用台灣的香菇一些電路條和熱熔膠製成的專業的設計師也把電路條綑在東西上做出手工藝品來大公司，像是Intel或是一些比較小的設計公司如Ideo以及一些新成立的公司如Bump都邀請我舉辦這些工作坊實踐出電子器具和日常物品結合在一起的想法然後，我們有了一個想法不要只是用電子器具而是試著將電腦和日常物品結合看看會發生什麼事 讓我很快的示範一下這是Makey Makey面板我要將它從頭設置給你們看我只要將它用USB插上我把上方向鍵接好因為你們都面對那個方向，所以我接上這一片披薩然後我只要把接地線接上現在，如果我碰這片披薩你們看見的投影片就會換到下一張現在如果我將電線接上左方向鍵我就像是在寫連接它的物體的程式一樣現在我有了左方向鍵和右方向鍵所以我就有辦法換到下一張、上一張下一張、上一張。超酷。 所以我們覺得我們應該為這東西做一部影片因為除了我和另一個傢伙外沒人真的相信這東西是很重要而且很有意義的 因此我們就做了一個影片來證明你可以做出很多東西你可以用彩色黏土大概做出一個鍵盤只要google遊戲控制器的樣子就可以了只要普通的彩色黏土，不需要什麼特別的道具你可以畫出搖桿在電腦上找出早期的那種電玩，然後接上去（電玩聲音）你們知道Target在賣的那些小塑膠抽屜嗎？如果你把抽屜抽出來，它們超適合裝水但你可能因此切掉腳趾頭所以呢，要小心點 在「幸福計畫」中，專家們設置了一座鋼琴樓梯，酷嗎？我覺得那很酷但是我們應該自己動手做出這類東西不該僅由一群專家們來設計出世界運作的方式我們全都應該一起參與改變世界運作的方式 鋁箔紙，每個人都有一隻貓拿一碗水，這就成了你Mac OS裡的快照機將滑鼠移到「照相」鈕上你就有了一個小小的貓咪快照機 所以我們需要許多人買這個面板如果許多人都不買，我們就不能在市場上販售所以我們就把這個計畫放在Kickstarter網站上第一天就有上百人買了30天後已有11000個人資助這個計畫 最棒的是，我們開始收到一大堆影片，都是人們用這個面板所作的瘋狂事物這是在吃午餐時所一邊演奏出來的美國國歌〈星條旗〉連漱口水也參上一腳事實上我們還寄了一些材料給這傢伙「老兄，我們要贊助你。你是個超專業的創作者。」 好，等等，這個超棒 （笑聲）（掌聲） 而這些在探索博物館的傢伙他們將居家植物當作鼓一樣在打這對父女用特別的方式來連接電路 還有這個小弟弟－－看看這張圖看見上面寫著「姐姐」的地方了嗎？我喜歡人們把人物放在圖表中我總是把人加在任何科技的－－如果你在畫一張技術圖表，把人放進去這個小孩很可愛，他為他的姐姐製作了這個跳床幻燈片大冒險所以在她生日那天，她就可以成為大明星在跳床上跳躍，讓投影片跳到下一張而這個人把他的狗聚在一起，做出一個狗鋼琴 這很好玩活潑生動和好玩有趣的感受比任何事物都來得有益但這同時也是相當嚴肅的因為所有這些可取得的東西開始出現在無法使用電腦的人們身邊像這位父親，他寫信給我們，他的兒子有腦性麻痺所以他不能使用一般的鍵盤他的父親實在無法負擔量身訂做的控制器因此，有了Makey Makey，他打算做出這些手套，讓他兒子能上網關於這些隨手可得的物品出現了爆多的討論而我們真的對此感到很興奮我們根本沒想過事情會如此發展 然後，所有的專業音樂家也開始使用它像是在這禮拜的科切拉音樂節侏儸紀5號樂團就在台上使用它還有這名DJ剛從布魯克林來，就在這個地方他上個月設立了這個我超愛轉盤上面的紅蘿蔔 （音樂：強烈衝擊合唱團〈淚珠點點〉） 大部分的人都不會這樣彈奏（笑聲） 而當事情開始變得嚴肅起來我覺得我最好在面板的包裝盒上附上一個很嚴肅的警告標籤因為人們將會開始獲得它並開始成為創造性的改變者政府會開始粉碎但我並沒有打算告訴人們這樣做，所以我想我最好先警告他們我也把這個小驚喜放了進去，當你打開箱子上面會寫：「世界是你的創造工具箱。」 當你開始以這種方式亂弄一氣我覺得，在某些小方面，你真的會開始看見日常生活的環境變得比較像是你能用來表達自我的東西變得比較像是你能一起參與創作的東西創造出這個世界未來會運作的方式 所以，下次如果你搭手扶梯時不小心掉了一顆M&M巧克力或許那是M&M的衝浪板，而非手扶梯所以別這麼快把它撿起來或許你可以從口袋掏出更多東西丟下去，也許是護唇膏，隨便都可以 我曾經想要設計出一個烏托邦的社會一個完美的世界之類的但當我年紀漸長用這類東西亂弄一通時我開始了解到，我心目中的完美是借真的不能只靠一個人或是一百萬個專家設計出來而是要靠七十億雙手每一雙手都跟隨他們自己的熱情每一雙手都像是一片馬賽克拼圖在他們的後院或廚房創造這個世界那就是我真正想居住的世界 謝謝 （掌聲）
