Talk	en	zh-tw
jeanne_gang_buildings_that_blend_nature_and_city	"I'm a relationship builder. When you think of a relationship builder, don't you just automatically think ""architect?"" Probably not. That's because most people think architects design buildings and cities, but what we really design are relationships, because cities are about people. They're places where people come together for all kinds of exchange. And besides, skylines are highly specific urban habitats with their own insects, plants and animals, and even their own weather. But today, urban habitats are out of balance. Climate change, together with political and economic troubles, are having an impact; they're adding up and stressing out cities and us, the people who live in them. For me, the field of ecology has provided important insight, because ecologists don't just look at individual species on their own, they look at the relationships between living things and their environment. They look at how all the diverse parts of the ecosystem are interconnected, and it's actually this balance, this web of life, that sustains life. My team and I have been applying insights from ecology to architecture to see how physical space can help build stronger relationships. The projects I'm going to show you today use the idea of building relationships as the key driver for design. Here's an example of what I mean. Recently, we were asked to design a center for social justice leadership called the Arcus Center. They asked us for a building that could break down traditional barriers between different groups and in doing so, create possibilities for meaningful conversations around social justice. The students wanted a place for cultural exchange. They thought a place for preparing food together could do that. And they wanted to be welcoming to the outside community. They thought a fireplace could draw people in and help start conversations. And everybody wanted the work of social justice to be visible to the outside world. There really wasn't a precedent for this kind of space, so we looked around the globe and found examples of community meeting houses. Community meeting houses are places where there's very specific relationships between people, like this one in Mali, where the elders gather. The low roof keeps everybody seated and at equal eye level. It's very egalitarian. I mean, you can't stand up and take over the meeting. You'd actually bump your head. (Laughter) In meeting houses, there's always a central space where you can sit around a circle and see each other. So we designed a space just like that right in the middle of the Arcus Center, and we anchored it with a fireplace and a kitchen. It's pretty hard to get a kitchen and a fireplace in a building like this with the building codes, but it was so important to the concept, we got it done. And now the central space works for big social gatherings and a place to meet one-on-one for the very first time. It's almost like this three-way intersection that encourages bumping into people and starting a conversation. Now you can always pass the kitchen and see something going on. You can sit by the fireplace and share stories. You can study together in big groups or in small ones, because the architecture sets up these opportunities. Even the construction is about building relationships. It's made of cordwood masonry, which is using logs the way you would use bricks. It's super low-tech and easy to do and anyone can do it — and that's the entire point. The act of making is a social activity. And it's good for the planet, too: the trees absorbed carbon when they were growing up, and they gave off oxygen, and now that carbon is trapped inside the walls and it's not being released into the atmosphere. So making the walls is equivalent to taking cars right off the road. We chose the building method because it connects people to each other and to the environment. But is it working? Is it creating relationships and nurturing them? How can we know? Well, more and more people are coming here, for one, and as a result of the fireside chats and a full calendar of programming, people are applying for the Arcus Fellowships. In fact, applications have increased tenfold for the Arcus Fellowship since the building opened. It's working. It's bringing people together. So I've shown how architecture can connect people on this kind of horizontal campus scale. But we wondered if social relationships could be scaled up — or rather, upward — in tall buildings. Tall buildings don't necessarily lend themselves to being social buildings. They can seem isolating and inward. You might only see people in those awkward elevator rides. But in several major cities, I've been designing tall buildings that are based on creating relationships between people. This is Aqua. It's a residential high-rise in Chicago aimed at young urban professionals and empty nesters, many of them new to the city. With over 700 apartments, we wanted to see if we could use architecture to help people get to know their neighbors, even when their homes are organized in the vertical dimension. So we invented a way to use balconies as the new social connectors. The shapes of the floor slabs vary slightly and they transition as you go up the tower. The result of this is that you can actually see people from your balcony. The balconies are misregistered. You can lean over your balcony and say, ""Hey!"" just like you would across the backyard. To make the balconies more comfortable for a longer period of time during the year, we studied the wind with digital simulations, so the effect of the balcony shapes breaks up the wind and confuses the wind and makes the balconies more comfortable and less windy. Now, just by being able to go outside on your balcony or on the third floor roof terrace, you can be connected to the outdoors, even when you're way above the ground plane. So the building acts to create community within the building and the city at the same time. It's working. And people are starting to meet each other on the building surface and we've heard — (Laughter) they've even starting getting together as couples. But besides romantic relationships, the building has a positive social effect on the community, as evidenced by people starting groups together and starting big projects together, like this organic community garden on the building's roof terrace. So I've shown how tall buildings can be social connectors, but what about public architecture? How can we create better social cohesion in public buildings and civic spaces, and why is it important? Public architecture is just not as successful if it comes from the top down. About 15 years ago in Chicago, they started to replace old police stations, and they built this identical model all over the city. And even though they had good intentions of treating all neighborhoods equally, the communities didn't feel invested in the process or feel a sense of ownership of these buildings. It was equality in the sense that everybody gets the same police station, but it wasn't equity in the sense of responding to each community's individual needs. And equity is the key issue here. You know, in my field, there's a debate about whether architecture can even do anything to improve social relationships. But I believe that we need architecture and every tool in our tool kit to improve these relationships. In the US, policy reforms have been recommended in order to rebuild trust. But my team and I wondered if design and a more inclusive design process could help add something positive to this policy conversation. We asked ourselves simply: Can design help rebuild trust? So we reached out to community members and police officers in North Lawndale; it's a neighborhood in Chicago where the police station is perceived as a scary fortress surrounded by a parking lot. In North Lawndale, people are afraid of police and of going anywhere near the police station, even to report a crime. So we organized this brainstorming session with both groups participating, and we came up with this whole new idea for the police station. It's called ""Polis Station."" ""Polis"" is a Greek word that means a place with a sense of community. It's based on the idea that if you can increase opportunities for positive social interactions between police and community members, you can rebuild that relationship and activate the neighborhood at the same time. Instead of the police station as a scary fortress, you get highly active spaces on the public side of the station — places that spark conversation, like a barbershop, a coffee shop or sports courts as well. Both cops and kids said they love sports. These insights came directly from the community members and the police officers themselves, and as designers, our role was just to connect the dots and suggest the first step. So with the help of the city and the parks, we were able to raise funds and design and build a half-court, right on the police station parking lot. It's a start. But is it rebuilding trust? The people in North Lawndale say the kids are using the courts every day and they even organize tournaments like this one shown here, and once in a while an officer joins in. But now, they even have basketballs inside the station that kids can borrow. And recently they've asked us to expand the courts and build a park on the site. And parents report something astonishing. Before, there was fear of going anywhere the station, and now they say there's a sense that the court is safer than other courts nearby, and they prefer their kids to play here. So maybe in the future, on the public side of the station, you might be able to drop in for a haircut at the barbershop or reserve the community room for a birthday party or renew your driver's license or get money out of an ATM. It can be a place for neighbors to meet each other and to get to know the officers, and vice versa. This is not a utopian fantasy. It's about how do you design to rebuild trust, trusting relationships? You know, every city has parks, libraries, schools and other public buildings that have the potential to be reimagined as social connectors. But reimagining the buildings for the future is going to require engaging the people who live there. Engaging the public can be intimidating, and I've felt that, too. But maybe that's because in architecture school, we don't really learn how to engage the public in the act of design. We're taught to defend our design against criticism. But I think that can change, too. So if we can focus the design mind on creating positive, reinforcing relationships in architecture and through architecture, I believe we can do much more than create individual buildings. We can reduce the stress and the polarization in our urban habitats. We can create relationships. We can help steady this planet we all share. See? Architects really are relationship builders. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我是一位人際關係創造者。[金·給恩]當你想到人際關係創造者，你會自然想到建築師嗎？可能不會吧。因為一般人腦海裡的建築師只設計大樓或都市而已。但其實，我們的設計卻以人與人之關係為重。因為都市是人們聚集之地，人們相聚做各種交換的地方。此外，都市的天際線更是都市特有的，擁有獨特的昆蟲，植物和動物，甚至有獨特的小氣候。 但時下的城市棲息地已失去平衡了：環球氣候變化，加上政治和經濟問題，造成負面影響；它們凝為龐大的壓力在都市和我們身上，都市的居民。 生態學讓我洞察如何解決這些問題，因為生態學不只看單一類生物，而是關注大生態內生物彼此的關係，以及他們與周遭大環境的互動。他們試圖了解整個生態系統內的各種不同部分如何相互連結，而這個平衡，交織的生命體，才是維係著生命延續的關鍵。我的團隊和我把生態學的智慧用在建築上，探討如何利用空間來強化人際關係。我今天要介紹的項目都是以強化人際溝通為設計的核心。 這是一個例子：最近我們應邀設計一個社會正義領導中心叫做阿克斯中心（Arcus Center）；他們要求我們設計一個能打破傳統族群間的隔膜，他們要求我們設計一個能打破傳統族群間的隔膜，因而促進各方坦率交流有關社會正義話題的空間。學生們要求一個有助於文化交流的地方，他們相信一個共用廚房能達成這目的；學生也希望這建築能吸引周遭的居民進來。他們相信一個壁爐能達成這目的，和促進談話交流；最終所有人希望大眾都能關注社會公義之工作。這類建築沒有先例可循，我們搜索全球找到一些社區會議屋子，在這些社區會議屋子中，人與人之間的關係非常明確，像在馬里的這個，是長老們會談用的：超低的樓板強迫每人都要坐著，彼此只能平視。它充滿著平等主義色彩；沒人能站著，指揮大局，站起來就碰頭了。 （笑聲） 這些社區會議屋子中都有個中央空間，讓大家圍坐成一圈，互相對望。所以我們設計同樣的空間在阿克斯中心的正中央，我們也配備了一個大壁爐和開放式的公眾廚房圍繞著它。可是依建築規章，要放一個大壁爐和公眾廚房在這種建築是不容易的，但這是設計的靈魂──我們贏得批准。如今，這個中央空間可供大型聚會，以及初次會面可單獨談話的地方，它像個三叉路口，讓人不期而會，進而交談。每當你走過廚房時，必可看到正在進行的活動，你可選擇坐在壁爐前分享故事；或者你可與大團體或少數人一起研討，因為建築的佈局是同時支援多類用途的。 甚至連建築選材也隱含建立關係之妙義：它是使用木塊的砌體建築，用一塊塊木頭像磚塊般疊起來，非常的低科技和容易，誰都能做的。這也是設計原意。因為建造本身就是一種團體活動，對地球而言也是環保的一招。 樹木在成長時吸二氧化碳吐出氧氣。現在，這些碳留存在牆壁中，而不是釋放到大氣層中，所以選用木頭為建材有如同減少汽車污染的意義。我們選用這建造模式，因為它能聯繫人與人，和人與大自然之關係。 但這個設計有達到目的嗎？它真能增益人與人聯繫嗎？我們如何證實？第一 ，越來越多人來阿克斯中心；還有，得力於壁爐前交流的魅力，以及全年度的豐富活動安排，很多人申請加入阿克斯會員。事實上，申請書從啟用那天到現在已增加了十倍。它是成功的，也成功拉近人們之間的距離。 這些例子示範了建築設計如何在這種平面式，類似校園的空間中，拉近人的距離，但我們也反問自己，人際關係的孕育是否也能施展在高層建築物呢？高層大樓本身就不是以交流作為重點。它們看起來就是孤獨和內斂的；通常我們只是在搭電梯的尷尬時刻相遇。但我在幾個大都市設計了以強化人際關係為目的高層大廈， 像這個大樓叫做水廈，是在芝加哥的高層住宅，住戶對像是年輕的都市專業人士和空巢父母，很多住戶還是首次定居在芝加哥。這大廈擁有超過 700 單位，我們試者使用建築設計幫助鄰居建立新的友誼。縱然這些單位都是垂直組織的，我們突破地利用陽台為社交連接器。 每層的樓面線條略有不同，從下往上，這個設計的結果是你可在陽台上看到其他人。陽台之周邊線更是上下層參差不一的：你大可以在陽台上彎身往下大喊 「嗨！」就像在傳統平房的後花園一樣的喊叫鄰居。為了讓住戶用陽台時更舒服，同時在四季中，盡量增長享用陽台的時間，我們用電腦模擬風向，來確定陽台之形狀可以緩沖風力，讓風渦相沖，以致讓陽台更舒適和少受風擊。 現在，你只要走到陽台，或站在三樓的樓頂花園上，你就能置身在戶外當中，就算你是遙遙高離地面。所以這建築成功地建立鄰居關係，不管在大樓內，或都市內，它都是成功的。大樓的住戶開始在牆外之陽台相遇，我們聽過── （笑聲） 也有變成情侶夫妻的。但是除了情侶關係，這大樓確實可以把正能量帶到鄰居之中。這一點可以從住戶自動組成小組，一起做些大項目來證明，就像這個在大廈頂的有機公眾花園。 我已示範高層大樓真的可以成為社交樞紐。可是在公共建築也可以嗎？我們如何能使公共建築和公民空間增益社會凝聚呢？為什麼這點很重要呢？公共建築一般都不會很成功：如果它是上層決定的。 大概十五年前在芝加哥，政府開始重建老舊的警察局。政府最終在全市中蓋了外形一樣的警察局。雖然政府用意是好的，想平等對待每一個社區；但是後果是社區的居民都不覺得有參與感，更對這些建築物沒有歸屬感。政府很公平地給每一區外貌一樣的警察局，但是從回應每個社區的個別需求上，不是平等的。實質的公眾得益才是關鍵。 在建築行業中，對於到底建築設計是否真正能做到促進社會關係，仍有爭議。但我相信，我們可以利用建築設計和我們擁有的每一個工具，來改善這些人際關係。在美國，為了重建社會信任感，有些人推薦了政策改革。但是我的團隊和我試想設計本身和多容性的設計過程，或許可在政策方面的討論中加分。我們問自己，設計能否真的修復信任呢？ 我們聯絡了北隆戴爾區的社區人員和警察。這區是位於芝加哥市中；區民都視警察局為一座可怕的，被停車場圍繞著的堡壘。在北隆戴爾，區民都很害怕警察，甚至不敢走近警察局，甚至去報案。所以我們安排了一場腦力激盪會議，由警察和區民共同參與的。最後我們討論出一個警察局的全新概念：我們稱之為「波樂司」（Polis） 。波樂司是希臘城邦的意思：是一個有社區意義的地方。這概念是：如果你能夠增加警察和區民之間正向的接觸機會，就可以重建友善的關係。這一來，也同時能夠活化整個社區。 警察局不再是一座可怕的堡壘，取而代之是一個在警察局內的一個生氣勃勃的公用空間，一個能鼓勵談話的空間，像在理髮店裡，或是咖啡廳內，或是在運動場。警察和青年人都一致說他們熱愛運動。這概念全是由區民和警察們提出來的。我們設計師的使命就是把這些概念連貫起來，協助把這些落實而已。還好，我們獲得社區和公園管理局的幫忙；我們得以籌款、設計、以及建造一個小形籃球場，就在警察局的停車場中。 這是一個起步。這樣是否真的能重建互信呢？住在北隆戴爾區的居民說小孩每天都在籃球場玩，甚至還有策劃比賽，像這裡顯示的一樣，偶爾會有一位警察參加。現在，在警局內也建了一個室內籃球場了，孩子們可以借用。最近，他們請我們擴大這些籃球場，還要蓋一個公園在現場。家長報告了一些讓人驚訝的事情：以往，大家都怕接近警察局；如今，他們覺得這籃球場比附近的其他籃球場安全多了。父母都情願小孩在這裡玩。 所以，或許將來在警察局內的市民開放區域，很可能你可以進來剪個頭髪，或預約公用禮堂來舉行生日派對，或申請延長駕照等，或在櫃員機拿錢。此處也可以是區民互相見面的地方，以及和警察互相認識的地方。這絕對不是個烏托邦幻想：問題是要懂得如何用設計來建立互信，增強信任的關係？ 眾所周知，每個都市都有公園、圖書館、學校等，和其他公共設施。這些都有潛質成為突破性的社交連接器。但要重新想像未來的建築如何重建，首先必定要讓當地的民眾參與。讓民眾參與有些嚇人，我本人也感受過。或許是因為在上建築課程時，我們都沒學過如何引導市民參與設計。我們只學到如何去辯解市民對我們設計的批評。但我相信這是可以改變的： 只要我們一心關注如何利用設計來創造正面、雙贏的人群關係；不管是建築物本體或是間接從它引發出來的，我相信，除了外觀設計，建築師能創造很多利益。我們可以緩和壓力，以及我們城市棲息地的極端情況。我們可以建立更加美好的人際關係。我們也可以幫助我們共享的地球找回平衡。 你看到嗎？建築師真的是人際關係創造者。 （笑聲） 非常感謝。 （鼓掌聲）
