Talk	en	zh-tw
jedidah_isler_the_untapped_genius_that_could_change_science_for_the_better	"Great things happen at intersections. In fact, I would argue that some of the most interesting things of the human experience occur at the intersections, in the liminal space, where by liminal I mean the space in-between. There's freedom in that in-between, freedom to create from the indefiniteness of not-quite-here, not-quite-there, a new self-definition. Some of the great intersections of the world come to mind, like the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, or Times Square in New York City, both bustling with the excitement of a seemingly endless stream of people. Other intersections, like the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, or Canfield Drive and Copper Creek Court in Ferguson, Missouri, also come to mind because of the tremendous energy at the intersection of human beings, ideologies and the ongoing struggle for justice. Beyond the physical landscape of our planet, some of the most famous celestial images are of intersections. Stars are born at the messy intersection of gas and dust, instigated by gravity's irrevocable pull. Stars die by this same intersection, this time flung outward in a violent collision of smaller atoms, intersecting and efficiently fusing into altogether new and heavier things. We can all think of intersections that have special meaning to us. To be intersectional, then, is to occupy a position at an intersection. I've lived the entirety of my life in the in-between, in the liminal space between dreams and reality, race and gender, poverty and plenty, science and society. I am both black and a woman. Like the birth of stars in the heavenlies, this robust combination of knowing results in a shining example of the explosive fusion of identities. I am also an astrophysicist. I study blazars, supermassive, hyperactive black holes that sit at the centers of massive galaxies and shoot out jets nearby those black holes at speeds approaching the speed of light in a process we are still trying to completely understand. I have dreamed of becoming an astrophysicist since I was 12 years old. I had no idea that at that time, according to Dr. Jamie Alexander's archive of African-American women in physics, only 18 black women in the United States had ever earned a PhD in a physics-related discipline, and that the first black woman to graduate with a PhD in an astronomy-related field did so just one year before my birth. As I journeyed along my path, I encountered the best and worst of life at an intersection: the tremendous opportunity to self-define, the collision of expectation and experience, the exhilaration of victorious breakthroughs and, sometimes, the explosive pain of regeneration. I began my college experience just after my family had fallen apart. Our financial situation disintegrated just after my father's departure from our lives. This thrust my mother, my sister and I out of the relative comfort of middle-class life and into the almost constant struggle to make ends meet. Thus, I was one of roughly 60 percent of women of color who find finances to be a major barrier to their educational goals. Thankfully, Norfolk State University provided me with full funding, and I was able to achieve my bachelor's in physics. After graduation, and despite knowing that I wanted a PhD in astrophysics, I fell through the cracks. It was a poster that saved my dream, and some really incredible people and programs. The American Physical Society had this beautiful poster encouraging students of color to become physicists. It was striking to me because it featured a young black girl, probably around 12 years old, looking studiously at some physics equations. I remember thinking I was looking directly back at the little girl who first dared to dream this dream. I immediately wrote to the Society and requested my personal copy of the poster, which to this day still hangs in my office. I described to them in the email my educational path, and my desire to find myself again in pursuit of the PhD. They directed me to the Fisk-Vanderbilt University Bridge Program, itself an intersection of the master's and PhD degrees at two institutions. After two years out of school, they accepted me into the program, and I found myself again on the path to the PhD. After receiving my master's at Fisk, I went on to Yale to complete my PhD. Once I was physically occupying the space that would ultimately give way to my childhood aspirations, I anticipated a smooth glide to the PhD. (Laughter) It became immediately apparent that not everyone was thrilled to have that degree of liminality in their space. I was ostracized by many of my classmates, one of whom went so far as to invite me to ""do what I really came here to do"" as he pushed all the dirty dishes from our meal in front of me to clean up. I wish that were an isolated occurrence, but for many women of color in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, or STEM, this is something they have long endured. One hundred percent of the 60 women of color interviewed in a recent study by Joan C. Williams at UC Hastings reported facing racialized gender bias, including being mistaken for the janitorial staff. This mistaken identity was not reported by any of the white women interviewed for this study, which comprised 557 women in total. While there is nothing inherently wrong with a janitorial position, and in fact my forefathers and foremothers were able to attend college because many of their parents worked these jobs, it was a clear attempt to put me in my place. While there was certainly the acute pain of the encounter, the real issue is that my appearance can tell anyone anything about my ability. Beyond that, though, it underscores that the women of color in STEM do not experience the same set of barriers that just women or just people of color face. That's why today I want to highlight women of color in STEM, who are inexorably, unapologetically living as the inseparable sum of identities. STEM itself is an intersectional term, such that its true richness cannot be appreciated without considering the liminal space between disciplines. Science, the pursuit of understanding the physical world by way of chemistry, physics, biology, cannot be accomplished in the absence of mathematics. Engineering requires the application of basic science and math to the lived experience. Technology sits firmly on the foundation of math, engineering and science. Math itself serves the critical role of Rosetta Stone, decoding and encoding the physical principles of the world. STEM is utterly incomplete without each individual piece. This is to say nothing of the enrichment that is realized when STEM is combined with other disciplines. The purpose for this talk is twofold: first, to say directly to every black, Latina, indigenous, First Nation or any other woman or girl who finds herself resting at the blessed intersection of race and gender, that you can be anything you want to be. My personal hope is that you'll become an astrophysicist, but beyond that, anything you want. Do not think for one minute that because you are who you are, you cannot be who you imagine yourself to be. Hold fast to those dreams and let them carry you into a world you can't even imagine. Secondly, among the most pressing issues of our time, most now find their intersection with STEM. We have as a global society solved most of the single-faceted issues of our time. Those that remain require a thorough investigation of the liminal space between disciplines to create the multifaceted solutions of tomorrow. Who better to solve these liminal problems than those who have faced their whole lives at the intersections. We as thought leaders and decision makers must push past the first steps of diversity and into the richer and more robust territory of full inclusion and equal opportunity. One of my favorite examples of liminal excellence comes from the late Dr. Claudia Alexander, a black woman plasma physicist, who passed away this past July after a 10-year bout with breast cancer. She was a NASA project scientist who spearheaded the NASA side of the Rosetta mission, which became famous this year for landing a rover on a comet, and the 1.5 billion dollar Galileo mission to Jupiter, two high-profile scientific victories for NASA, the United States and the world. Dr. Alexander said it this way: ""I'm used to walking between two cultures. For me, it's among the purposes of my life to take us from states of ignorance to states of understanding with bold exploration that you can't do every day."" This shows exactly the power of a liminal person. She had the technical ability to spearhead some of the most ambitious space missions of our time, and she perfectly understood her place of being exactly who she was in any place she was. Jessica Matthews, inventor of the SOCCKET line of sports products, like soccer balls, that generate renewable energy as you play with them, said it this way: ""A major part of invention isn't just creating things, it's understanding people and understanding the systems that make this world."" The reason I tell my story and the story of Dr. Alexander and Jessica Matthews is because they are fundamentally intersectional stories, the stories of lives lived at the nexus of race, gender and innovation. Despite implicit and explicit questions of my right to be in an elite space, I'm proud to report that when I graduated, I was the first black woman to earn a PhD in astrophysics in Yale's then 312-year history. (Applause) I am now part of a small but growing cadre of women of color in STEM who are poised to bring new perspectives and new ideas to life on the most pressing issues of our time: things like educational inequities, police brutality, HIV/AIDS, climate change, genetic editing, artificial intelligence and Mars exploration. This is to say nothing of the things we haven't even thought of yet. Women of color in STEM occupy some of the toughest and most exciting sociotechnological issues of our time. Thus, we are uniquely positioned to contribute to and drive these conversations in ways that are more inclusive of a wider variety of lived experience. This outlook can be expanded to the many intersectional people whose experiences, positive and negative, enrich the conversations in ways that outmatch even the best-resourced homogenous groups. This is not a request born out of a desire to fit in. It's a reminder that we cannot get to the best possible outcomes for the totality of humanity without precisely this collaboration, this bringing together of the liminal, the differently lived, distinctly experienced and disparately impacted. Simply put, we cannot be the most excellent expression of our collective genius without the full measure of humanity brought to bear. Thank you. (Applause)"	偉大的事往往都發生在交會點。事實上，我會說人類所經歷的幾件最有趣的事情都發生在交會點，在中介地帶，所謂中介，我是指介於兩者之間的空間。在這些地方你擁有自由，能從難以清楚界定的模糊地帶中創造一種新的自我界定。我想到一些世界上重要的交會點，像是巴黎的凱旋門，或是紐約的時代廣場，兩者都熱鬧繁華、有著川流不息的人們。還有其他交會點，例如阿拉巴馬州的艾德蒙‧佩特斯橋(黑人民權運動-血腥星期天發生地)或是密蘇里州的麥可·布朗命案(18歲非裔美國青年遭白人警員射殺)也都在我心中浮現， 因為我們將如此可觀的心力，都花費在人權、意識形態和永不停止的正義之戰的交會處。 在地球的自然景觀之外，許多知名的天體影像本身就是交會點。星星是在凌亂的氣體及塵埃交會處誕生的，受到必然發生的萬有引力牽引而成。星星也在一樣的交會處滅亡，這次是被一些較小原子的劇烈碰撞而向外拋出，彼此交會並有效率地融合成更重的新星體。我們可以想想那些對我們有著特別意義的交界處，要產生交集，代表你得在這個交會點佔有一席之地。 我一生都處在中介地帶。夢想和現實之間、種族與性別之間、貧窮和財富之間、科學和社會之間。我是黑人，又是女性。就像誕生於天界的星辰，這種宿命的強烈結合造就了所有爆炸性身分融合中的一個傑作。 我也是一位天體物理學家，我研究耀類星體、超大質量的活躍黑洞，它們位於大型星系中心，從這些黑洞附近發出噴射流，速度接近光速。我們還在試著理解這個過程。 我成為天體物理學家的夢想，從12歲就開始了。當時我根本不知道，根據傑米·亞歷山大博士針對物理學界的非裔美籍女性所做的研究，美國僅有18個黑人女性曾在物理相關領域拿到博士學位，而且天文學相關領域第一位黑人女性博士畢業生直到我出生前一年才產生。 在我人生的旅途上，最好和最壞的幾件事情，都是在交會點遇到的：包含自我定位的絕佳機會、理想和現實的碰撞、成功獲得突破的快樂，還有，不時會遇到的，必須重新來過的劇痛。 我的大學生活從家庭分崩離析開始。父親離開我們的生活，經濟狀況馬上急轉直下。逼著母親、姊姊和我離開相對舒服的中產階級，開始幾乎只能勉強維生的生活。因此，就像大約60%的有色人種女性一樣，我發現財務狀況是完成教育的最大阻礙。還好諾福克州立大學提供我全額獎學金，讓我順利取得物理學士學位。 畢業後，儘管懷著成為天體物理學博士的夢想，但這夢想終究破滅。救了我的夢想的是一張海報，還有一些很棒的人和課程。美國物理學會設計了一張很漂亮的海報，鼓勵有色人種的學生成為物理學家。它深深打動了我，因為上面是一個年輕黑人女孩，大概只有12歲左右，孜孜不倦地看著一些物理方程式。這讓我想起那個還是小女孩的自己，那個敢於擁有夢想的小女孩。我馬上寫信給美國物理學會，請他們把那個海報寄一張給我，這張海報至今仍掛在我的辦公室裡。我在郵件裡向他們描述我的求學之路，還有希望能透過博士學位的追尋重新找回自我的渴望。他們指引我參加費斯克－范德比爾大學橋樑課程，這個方案本身就是個交會點，涵蓋兩所大學的碩士和博士學位。在我離開學校兩年後，我順利進入這個課程，並發現自己再度踏上追求博士學位之路。 從費斯克大學取得碩士學位後，我到耶魯大學完成了博士學位。而當我覺得情況對我似乎很有利，讓我終究有機會實現兒時願望時，我以為自己會一路順遂直到博士學位到手。（笑聲） 但很顯然地， 並不是每個人都能接受在他們的場子出現這種格格不入的角色。我被許多同學排擠，有人甚至要我「做我來這真正該做的事」，把所有髒盤子推到我面前要我洗乾淨。我希望這只是個偶發事件，但對在科學、科技、工程和數學，或稱STEM領域的有色人種女性來說，這是她們必須一直忍受的事。高達100%的有色人種女性在瓊·C‧威廉斯於加州大學哈斯汀法學院最近做的60個研究訪談中表示自己正在遭受種族性別歧視，包含被誤認為清潔工。這種誤認的情形，並沒有發生在同樣接受訪談的白人女性身上，總人數高達557人。儘管清潔工作本身並沒有什麼問題，而且事實上我的前幾代家人中，許多能上大學，正是因為他們的父母從事此類工作，但這種行為很明顯地就是想讓我「記得自己的身分」。 儘管這種遭遇極度痛苦，但真正的問題是我的外表可以讓任何人看到我的能力。除此之外，這也凸顯了一件事情，STEM領域的有色人種女性所遭遇到的對待完全不同於純粹女性或純粹有色人種。這是為什麼今天我想特別指出STEM領域裡的有色人種女性，都活在這種無法分離的身分總和裡，，無可避免、也不會有人感到抱歉。 STEM本身就是個跨界的術語，若不仔細思考這幾個學科之間的交集，它的價值就無法凸顯。科學，追求的是對實體世界的了解，透過化學、物理、生物等各種方式，這些無法被建立在沒有數學的基礎上。工程則需要將科學與數學的基礎應用到實際生活體驗。科技，更是需要穩固的數學、工程與科學基礎。數學本身就像是羅塞塔石碑的關鍵角色，負責解碼和編碼這個世界的物理原理。STEM彼此之間相輔相成、缺一不可，而當STEM與其他學科結合時，會產生令人難以想像的力量。 這場談話的目的分為兩部分：第一是告訴所有黑人、拉丁裔、原住民、第一世界或任何其他婦女或女孩，如果你們被擱置在種族和性別的交叉路口你必須相信自己能成為你想成為的人。我個人希望你成為一位天體物理學家，但除此之外，你想成為什麼都行。千萬千萬不要因為你既定的身分放棄成為理想中的自己。緊緊握住那些夢想，讓它們帶你走向一個連自己都無法想像的世界。 第二，當今大部分迫切的問題中，幾乎都能找到與STEM的交集。透過全球社會的合作，我們解決了大部分單面向的問題。剩下的這些問題，需要仔細研究一下學科之間的中介地帶，才能在未來找到全面性的解決方案。要解決這種跨界問題，有誰比畢生活在交會點的我們更合適呢？我們作為思想領袖和決策者，必須從人群中踏出多元化的第一步，建立一個更豐富、更健全的兼容並蓄、機會均等的領域。 我最欣賞的一位跨界菁英，是已故的克勞蒂亞‧亞歷山大博士，一位黑人女性等離子物理學家，她在和乳癌奮戰了10年後，於去年七月去世。她是NASA專案科學家，在NASA這方帶領羅賽塔號的任務，這項任務在今年登陸彗星後大為有名。此外還有耗資1.5億美元的伽利略木星登陸計劃，兩項非常了不起的科學成就，無論是對NASA、對美國，還是對整個世界來說。亞歷山大博士是這麼說的：「我很習慣遊走在兩個文化之間，對我來說，生命的意義之一就是讓我們從忽略走向理解，並用非比尋常的大膽探索來完成這一切。」 這完全展現了跨界人的力量，她有卓越的技術能力帶領當今最雄心勃勃的太空任務，她也非常明白自己的地位，無論在哪都能忠實地做自己。 潔西卡‧馬修斯，體育產品SOCCKET的發明人，看起來像一般足球，但它會在你踢它時產生能源。她是這麼說的：「發明的意義不只在創造新事物，還在於理解人、理解組成這個世界的系統。」我之所以要說自己的故事、還有亞歷山大博士以及潔西卡‧馬修斯的故事，因為在基礎上，這些都是跨界的故事，是一些活在種族、性別和創新交會點的生命的故事。 儘管我不知道自己是否可以算是菁英，但我很榮幸地告訴各位，在我畢業時，我是第一個拿到天體物理博士學位的黑人女性，耶魯大學312年歷史上的第一個。 (掌聲) 我加入了一個小型但持續成長中的組織，由STEM領域的有色人種女性所組成，我們不斷將新的觀點和想法帶入生活，來解決一些當今最迫切的問題，例如教育的不平等、警察濫用職權、愛滋病、氣候變遷、基因改造、人工智慧和火星探索。可以說，想像得到的我們都討論過了。 STEM領域的有色人種女性，在當今最艱鉅、也最令人振奮的社會技術議題上，佔有一席之地。因此，我們處於獨特的地位，能在推動這種討論中有所貢獻，利用我們更廣泛、更多元的生活經驗。這樣的前景可以擴展到更多跨界人身上，用他們的經驗，無論好的或不好的，來讓這些討論更加豐富，甚至勝過那些握有最多資源、但是同質的團體。 這不是因為渴望融入某個群體而產生的要求，而是一種提醒：如果我們想為全人類帶來最好的結果，就一定要通力合作，結合那些活在中介地帶、用不同方式生活、有著不同體驗、受到完全不同的衝擊的人。簡單來說，如果我們不能全面考量人性的影響，就無法體現人類全體的智慧。 謝謝各位。
