Talk	en	zh-tw
jedidah_isler_how_i_fell_in_love_with_quasars_blazars_and_our_incredible_universe	"My first love was for the night sky. Love is complicated. You're looking at a fly-through of the  Hubble Space Telescope Ultra-Deep Field, one of the most distant images of our universe ever observed. Everything you see here is a galaxy, comprised of billions of stars each. And the farthest galaxy is  a trillion, trillion kilometers away. As an astrophysicist, I have the awesome privilege of studying some of the most exotic objects  in our universe. The objects that have captivated me  from first crush throughout my career are supermassive,  hyperactive black holes. Weighing one to 10 billion times  the mass of our own sun, these galactic black holes  are devouring material, at a rate of upwards of  1,000 times more than your ""average""  supermassive black hole. (Laughter) These two characteristics, with a few others, make them quasars. At the same time, the objects I study are producing some of the most powerful particle streams ever observed. These narrow streams, called jets, are moving at 99.99 percent  of the speed of light, and are pointed directly at the Earth. These jetted, Earth-pointed, hyperactive and supermassive black holes are called blazars, or blazing quasars. What makes blazars so special is that they're some of the universe's most efficient particle accelerators, transporting incredible amounts of energy throughout a galaxy. Here, I'm showing an artist's conception of a blazar. The dinner plate by which  material falls onto the black hole is called the accretion disc, shown here in blue. Some of that material is slingshotted around the black hole and accelerated to insanely high speeds in the jet, shown here in white. Although the blazar system is rare, the process by which nature pulls in material via a disk, and then flings some of it out via a jet, is more common. We'll eventually zoom out of  the blazar system to show its approximate relationship to the larger galactic context. Beyond the cosmic accounting of what goes in to what goes out, one of the hot topics in  blazar astrophysics right now is where the highest-energy  jet emission comes from. In this image, I'm interested in where this white blob forms and if, as a result, there's any  relationship between the jet and the accretion disc material. Clear answers to this question were almost completely inaccessible until 2008, when NASA launched a new telescope that better detects gamma ray light — that is, light with energies a million times higher than your standard x-ray scan. I simultaneously compare variations between the gamma ray light data and the visible light data from day to day and year to year, to better localize these gamma ray blobs. My research shows that in some instances, these blobs form much closer to the black hole than we initially thought. As we more confidently localize where these gamma ray  blobs are forming, we can better understand how jets are being accelerated, and ultimately reveal  the dynamic processes by which some of the most fascinating objects in our universe are formed. This all started as a love story. And it still is. This love transformed me from  a curious, stargazing young girl to a professional astrophysicist, hot on the heels of celestial discovery. Who knew that chasing after the universe would ground me so deeply to my mission here on Earth. Then again, when do we ever know where love's first flutter will truly take us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我的初戀是夜空這種喜愛很複雜 大家看到的是電腦模擬的哈勃望遠鏡超深空圖像這是目前為止我們觀察到的最遙遠的圖像之一你看見的一切同屬一個星系這個星系由上十億顆星球組成距離我們最遠的星系在數以萬億千里外 作為一個天體物理學家我很幸運地能夠學習宇宙中最遙遠的一些天體首先吸引到我注意力的天體是超重、超活躍的黑洞黑洞的重量是我們太陽的100億倍這些星際的黑洞在吞噬物質與「普通」超重黑洞相比，這些黑洞吞噬速度要快1000倍有多。（笑聲） 這兩個特徵加上其他一些特徵，讓這些黑洞成為「類星體」同時，我研究的這些天體在釋放一些迄今為止剛測到的能量最強的粒子流這些狭窄的噴射流束運動速度達到光速的99.99%並且運動方向直接朝向地球 這些高速、高度活躍、超質量的黑洞被稱作「躍變體」或者「熾熱類星體」躍變體的獨特之處在於：它們是宇宙中最高效的粒子加速器之一它們在星系中輸送大到難以置信的能量 這裡是從藝術家的角度看躍變體的概念物質掉入黑洞時所穿過的「餐碟」叫「吸積盤」也就是藍色部分有一些物質在黑洞周圍被彈射並在流束中加速到異常的高速白色部分是流束雖然躍變體系統非常罕見但是大自然通過盤面吸入物質然後通過流束拋出，這一過程更加常見我們最終縮小躍變體系統來展示其與更大星系體的潛在聯繫 除了宇宙中「進出」黑洞的物質目前天體物理學界熱點話題之一是那些高能噴射流束的來源在這圖像裡，我很想知道這白色光團是在哪裡形成的；噴射流束與吸積盤之間有沒有任何的關聯？ 我們無法清楚回答這個問題直到2008年美國航空航天局發射了一個能夠更好地觀測伽瑪射線的天文望遠鏡相比於常規的X射線伽瑪射線擁有的能量高達一百萬倍我年復一年、日復一日地對比可見光的數據和伽瑪射線的數據我年復一年，日復一日地對比可見光的數據和伽瑪射線的數據來更好地定位這些伽瑪射線團我的研究表明，在某些時候這些光團會在黑洞附近形成比我們的預想的要近很多 當我們能夠更加肯定地定位那些伽瑪射線形成的位置我們可以更好地解釋噴射流束是如何被加速的並最終發現宇宙中最迷人的那些天體形成的動態過程 這一切始於一個愛情故事並一直都是這個愛好將我從一個好奇、仰望星空的小女孩變成了一個專業的天體物理學家熱衷于追隨天體發現的足跡誰知道，追隨宇宙的足跡會讓我在地球深深地投身于我的工作中我們什麼時候會知道我們最初的愛好最終會把我們帶到何方 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
