Talk	en	zh-tw
jeff_hancock_3_types_of_digital_lies	"Let me tell you, it has been a fantastic month for deception. And I'm not even talking about the American presidential race. (Laughter) We have a high-profile journalist caught for plagiarism, a young superstar writer whose book involves so many made up quotes that they've pulled it from the shelves; a New York Times exposé on fake book reviews. It's been fantastic. Now, of course, not all deception hits the news. Much of the deception is everyday. In fact, a lot of research shows that we all lie once or twice a day, as Dave suggested. So it's about 6:30 now, suggests that most of us should have lied. Let's take a look at Winnipeg. How many of you, in the last 24 hours — think back — have told a little fib, or a big one? How many have told a little lie out there? All right, good. These are all the liars. Make sure you pay attention to them. (Laughter) No, that looked good, it was about two thirds of you. The other third didn't lie, or perhaps forgot, or you're lying to me about your lying, which is very, very devious. (Laughter) This fits with a lot of the research, which suggests that lying is very pervasive. It's this pervasiveness, combined with the centrality to what it means to be a human, the fact that we can tell the truth or make something up, that has fascinated people throughout history. Here we have Diogenes with his lantern. Does anybody know what he was looking for? A single honest man, and he died without finding one back in Greece. And we have Confucius in the East who was really concerned with sincerity, not only that you walked the walk or talked the talk, but that you believed in what you were doing. You believed in your principles. Now my first professional encounter with deception is a little bit later than these guys, a couple thousand years. I was a customs officer for Canada back in the mid-'90s. Yeah. I was defending Canada's borders. You may think that's a weapon right there. In fact, that's a stamp. I used a stamp to defend Canada's borders. (Laughter) Very Canadian of me. I learned a lot about deception while doing my duty here in customs, one of which was that most of what I thought I knew about deception was wrong, and I'll tell you about some of that tonight. But even since just 1995, '96, the way we communicate has been completely transformed. We email, we text, we skype, we Facebook. It's insane. Almost every aspect of human communication's been changed, and of course that's had an impact on deception. Let me tell you a little bit about a couple of new deceptions we've been tracking and documenting. They're called the Butler, the Sock Puppet and the Chinese Water Army. It sounds a little bit like a weird book, but actually they're all new types of lies. Let's start with the Butlers. Here's an example of one: ""On my way."" Anybody ever written, ""On my way?"" Then you've also lied. (Laughter) We're never on our way. We're thinking about going on our way. Here's another one: ""Sorry I didn't respond to you earlier. My battery was dead."" Your battery wasn't dead. You weren't in a dead zone. You just didn't want to respond to that person that time. Here's the last one: You're talking to somebody, and you say, ""Sorry, got work, gotta go."" But really, you're just bored. You want to talk to somebody else. Each of these is about a relationship, and this is a 24/7 connected world. Once you get my cell phone number, you can literally be in touch with me 24 hours a day. And so these lies are being used by people to create a buffer, like the butler used to do, between us and the connections to everybody else. But they're very special. They use ambiguity that comes from using technology. You don't know where I am or what I'm doing or who I'm with. And they're aimed at protecting the relationships. These aren't just people being jerks. These are people that are saying, look, I don't want to talk to you now, or I didn't want to talk to you then, but I still care about you. Our relationship is still important. Now, the Sock Puppet, on the other hand, is a totally different animal. The sock puppet isn't about ambiguity, per se. It's about identity. Let me give you a very recent example, as in, like, last week. Here's R.J. Ellory, best-seller author in Britain. Here's one of his bestselling books. Here's a reviewer online, on Amazon. My favorite, by Nicodemus Jones, is, ""Whatever else it might do, it will touch your soul."" And of course, you might suspect that Nicodemus Jones is R.J. Ellory. He wrote very, very positive reviews about himself. Surprise, surprise. Now this Sock Puppet stuff isn't actually that new. Walt Whitman also did this back in the day, before there was Internet technology. Sock Puppet becomes interesting when we get to scale, which is the domain of the Chinese Water Army. Chinese Water Army refers to thousands of people in China that are paid small amounts of money to produce content. It could be reviews. It could be propaganda. The government hires these people, companies hire them, all over the place. In North America, we call this Astroturfing, and Astroturfing is very common now. There's a lot of concerns about it. We see this especially with product reviews, book reviews, everything from hotels to whether that toaster is a good toaster or not. Now, looking at these three reviews, or these three types of deception, you might think, wow, the Internet is really making us a deceptive species, especially when you think about the Astroturfing, where we can see deception brought up to scale. But actually, what I've been finding is very different from that. Now, let's put aside the online anonymous sex chatrooms, which I'm sure none of you have been in. I can assure you there's deception there. And let's put aside the Nigerian prince who's emailed you about getting the 43 million out of the country. (Laughter) Let's forget about that guy, too. Let's focus on the conversations between our friends and our family and our coworkers and our loved ones. Those are the conversations that really matter. What does technology do to deception with those folks? Here's a couple of studies. One of the studies we do are called diary studies, in which we ask people to record all of their conversations and all of their lies for seven days, and what we can do then is calculate how many lies took place per conversation within a medium, and the finding that we get that surprises people the most is that email is the most honest of those three media. And it really throws people for a loop because we think, well, there's no nonverbal cues, so why don't you lie more? The phone, in contrast, the most lies. Again and again and again we see the phone is the device that people lie on the most, and perhaps because of the Butler Lie ambiguities I was telling you about. This tends to be very different from what people expect. What about résumés? We did a study in which we had people apply for a job, and they could apply for a job either with a traditional paper résumé, or on LinkedIn, which is a social networking site like Facebook, but for professionals — involves the same information as a résumé. And what we found, to many people's surprise, was that those LinkedIn résumés were more honest on the things that mattered to employers, like your responsibilities or your skills at your previous job. How about Facebook itself? You know, we always think that hey, there are these idealized versions, people are just showing the best things that happened in their lives. I've thought that many times. My friends, no way they can be that cool and have good of a life. Well, one study tested this by examining people's personalities. They had four good friends of a person judge their personality. Then they had strangers, many strangers, judge the person's personality just from Facebook, and what they found was those judgments of the personality were pretty much identical, highly correlated, meaning that Facebook profiles really do reflect our actual personality. All right, well, what about online dating? I mean, that's a pretty deceptive space. I'm sure you all have ""friends"" that have used online dating. (Laughter) And they would tell you about that guy that had no hair when he came, or the woman that didn't look at all like her photo. Well, we were really interested in it, and so what we did is we brought people, online daters, into the lab, and then we measured them. We got their height up against the wall, we put them on a scale, got their weight — ladies loved that — and then we actually got their driver's license to get their age. And what we found was very, very interesting. Here's an example of the men and the height. Along the bottom is how tall they said they were in their profile. Along the y-axis, the vertical axis, is how tall they actually were. That diagonal line is the truth line. If their dot's on it, they were telling exactly the truth. Now, as you see, most of the little dots are below the line. What it means is all the guys were lying about their height. In fact, they lied about their height about nine tenths of an inch, what we say in the lab as ""strong rounding up."" (Laughter) You get to 5'8"" and one tenth, and boom! 5'9"". But what's really important here is, look at all those dots. They are clustering pretty close to the truth. What we found was 80 percent of our participants did indeed lie on one of those dimensions, but they always lied by a little bit. One of the reasons is pretty simple. If you go to a date, a coffee date, and you're completely different than what you said, game over. Right? So people lied frequently, but they lied subtly, not too much. They were constrained. Well, what explains all these studies? What explains the fact that despite our intuitions, mine included, a lot of online communication, technologically-mediated communication, is more honest than face to face? That really is strange. How do we explain this? Well, to do that, one thing is we can look at the deception-detection literature. It's a very old literature by now, it's coming up on 50 years. It's been reviewed many times. There's been thousands of trials, hundreds of studies, and there's some really compelling findings. The first is, we're really bad at detecting deception, really bad. Fifty-four percent accuracy on average when you have to tell if somebody that just said a statement is lying or not. That's really bad. Why is it so bad? Well it has to do with Pinocchio's nose. If I were to ask you guys, what do you rely on when you're looking at somebody and you want to find out if they're lying? What cue do you pay attention to? Most of you would say that one of the cues you look at is the eyes. The eyes are the window to the soul. And you're not alone. Around the world, almost every culture, one of the top cues is eyes. But the research over the last 50 years says there's actually no reliable cue to deception, which blew me away, and it's one of the hard lessons that I learned when I was customs officer. The eyes do not tell us whether somebody's lying or not. Some situations, yes — high stakes, maybe their pupils dilate, their pitch goes up, their body movements change a little bit, but not all the time, not for everybody, it's not reliable. Strange. The other thing is that just because you can't see me doesn't mean I'm going to lie. It's common sense, but one important finding is that we lie for a reason. We lie to protect ourselves or for our own gain or for somebody else's gain. So there are some pathological liars, but they make up a tiny portion of the population. We lie for a reason. Just because people can't see us doesn't mean we're going to necessarily lie. But I think there's actually something much more interesting and fundamental going on here. The next big thing for me, the next big idea, we can find by going way back in history to the origins of language. Most linguists agree that we started speaking somewhere between 50,000 and 100,000 years ago. That's a long time ago. A lot of humans have lived since then. We've been talking, I guess, about fires and caves and saber-toothed tigers. I don't know what they talked about, but they were doing a lot of talking, and like I said, there's a lot of humans evolving speaking, about 100 billion people in fact. What's important though is that writing only emerged about 5,000 years ago. So what that means is that all the people before there was any writing, every word that they ever said, every utterance disappeared. No trace. Evanescent. Gone. So we've been evolving to talk in a way in which there is no record. In fact, even the next big change to writing was only 500 years ago now, with the printing press, which is very recent in our past, and literacy rates remained incredibly low right up until World War II, so even the people of the last two millennia, most of the words they ever said — poof! — disappeared. Let's turn to now, the networked age. How many of you have recorded something today? Anybody do any writing today? Did anybody write a word? It looks like almost every single person here recorded something. In this room, right now, we've probably recorded more than almost all of human pre-ancient history. That is crazy. We're entering this amazing period of flux in human evolution where we've evolved to speak in a way in which our words disappear, but we're in an environment where we're recording everything. In fact, I think in the very near future, it's not just what we write that will be recorded, everything we do will be recorded. What does that mean? What's the next big idea from that? Well, as a social scientist, this is the most amazing thing I have ever even dreamed of. Now, I can look at all those words that used to, for millennia, disappear. I can look at lies that before were said and then gone. You remember those Astroturfing reviews that we were talking about before? Well, when they write a fake review, they have to post it somewhere, and it's left behind for us. So one thing that we did, and I'll give you an example of looking at the language, is we paid people to write some fake reviews. One of these reviews is fake. The person never was at the James Hotel. The other review is real. The person stayed there. Now, your task now is to decide which review is fake? I'll give you a moment to read through them. But I want everybody to raise their hand at some point. Remember, I study deception. I can tell if you don't raise your hand. All right, how many of you believe that A is the fake? All right. Very good. About half. And how many of you think that B is? All right. Slightly more for B. Excellent. Here's the answer. B is a fake. Well done second group. You dominated the first group. (Laughter) You're actually a little bit unusual. Every time we demonstrate this, it's usually about a 50-50 split, which fits with the research, 54 percent. Maybe people here in Winnipeg are more suspicious and better at figuring it out. Those cold, hard winters, I love it. All right, so why do I care about this? Well, what I can do now with my colleagues in computer science is we can create computer algorithms that can analyze the linguistic traces of deception. Let me highlight a couple of things here in the fake review. The first is that liars tend to think about narrative. They make up a story: Who? And what happened? And that's what happened here. Our fake reviewers talked about who they were with and what they were doing. They also used the first person singular, I, way more than the people that actually stayed there. They were inserting themselves into the hotel review, kind of trying to convince you they were there. In contrast, the people that wrote the reviews that were actually there, their bodies actually entered the physical space, they talked a lot more about spatial information. They said how big the bathroom was, or they said, you know, here's how far shopping is from the hotel. Now, you guys did pretty well. Most people perform at chance at this task. Our computer algorithm is very accurate, much more accurate than humans can be, and it's not going to be accurate all the time. This isn't a deception-detection machine to tell if your girlfriend's lying to you on text messaging. We believe that every lie now, every type of lie — fake hotel reviews, fake shoe reviews, your girlfriend cheating on you with text messaging — those are all different lies. They're going to have different patterns of language. But because everything's recorded now, we can look at all of those kinds of lies. Now, as I said, as a social scientist, this is wonderful. It's transformational. We're going to be able to learn so much more about human thought and expression, about everything from love to attitudes, because everything is being recorded now, but what does it mean for the average citizen? What does it mean for us in our lives? Well, let's forget deception for a bit. One of the big ideas, I believe, is that we're leaving these huge traces behind. My outbox for email is massive, and I never look at it. I write all the time, but I never look at my record, at my trace. And I think we're going to see a lot more of that, where we can reflect on who we are by looking at what we wrote, what we said, what we did. Now, if we bring it back to deception, there's a couple of take-away things here. First, lying online can be very dangerous, right? Not only are you leaving a record for yourself on your machine, but you're leaving a record on the person that you were lying to, and you're also leaving them around for me to analyze with some computer algorithms. So by all means, go ahead and do that, that's good. But when it comes to lying and what we want to do with our lives, I think we can go back to Diogenes and Confucius. And they were less concerned about whether to lie or not to lie, and more concerned about being true to the self, and I think this is really important. Now, when you are about to say or do something, we can think, do I want this to be part of my legacy, part of my personal record? Because in the digital age we live in now, in the networked age, we are all leaving a record. Thank you so much for your time, and good luck with your record. (Applause)"	"告訴你們 這個月真是絕妙的欺騙之月啊美國總統大選甚至還不在我討論的範圍內 (笑)有位高知名度的新聞記者被指剽竊一位年輕明星作家作品裡有太多虛構的引言 以至於被下架而紐約時報被揭發有偽造的書評簡直太棒了! 當然 並非所有的詐騙都會上新聞有許多欺騙是日常性的 事實上 有許多研究顯示 每天我們都會說謊一到兩次 就像大衛（Dave）說的現在約是六點半 照理來說我們之中大部份都已經說過謊了讓我們瞭解一下現場有多少人回想一下 在過去的二十四小時之內 說過小小的謊或者是大謊? 現場有多少人扯過小小的謊? 很好 這些人都是騙子其他人要小心他們 (笑) 開玩笑的 剛剛有差不多三分之二的人承認自己說謊剩下的三分之一 可能是忘了自己說過謊或者是在這件事上你們騙我 這樣做是非常非常不誠實的做法 (笑) 但與很多研究相符合研究顯示說謊是非常普遍的也就是這種普遍的性格 與以自我為中心結合造就了人性 也是為何我們可以說出事實 或者編成謊言而這種行為一直以來都使人著迷於研究這是錫諾普的第歐根尼 (古希臘哲學家) 與他的燈籠有人知道他在搜尋什麼嗎?一個誠實的人 但他走遍希臘 直到死前都沒有找到一人 另外一位則是東方哲學家孔子他當時相當重視真誠的行為不單只是""言出必行""而是人應該對自己所做的事情有信念會相信自己的原則 我職業生涯第一次碰到欺騙稍微比這些人晚一點 大概幾千年後在90年代中期 我曾是加拿大的海關沒錯 我當時正守衛著加拿大的邊境你們應該會認為我手上拿著個武器 事實上我只有一個印章 我用印章來保衛加拿大的邊境 (笑)非常加拿大人的行為 我學習到許多關於欺騙的事情當我在海關執勤時我學到的一件事就是 我對欺騙大部份的認知都是錯的今晚我會跟大家分享 從1995, 96年開始 我們溝通的方式已經完全地轉變 我們收發電子郵件 傳短訊SKYPE 或者是FACEBOOK 真是瘋狂幾乎所有人類溝通的各個層面都已經改變當然 這對欺騙也有很大的影響我來跟你們說一些關於新詐欺的方式我們一直在追蹤並紀錄那些行為他們被稱之為""總管"" ""傀儡""以及""中國水軍""聽起來有點像是本詭異的書但實際上他們都是新式的謊言 我們先從""總管""開始 其中一個例子是""我在路上了"" 有人曾經寫過""我在路上了""嗎?你們也撒謊了 (笑)我們才沒有“在路上” 只是說自己在路上還有另外一個例子 ""抱歉 我無法早些回覆你我電池沒電了"" 實際上你的電池並非沒電也不是收訊不良你只是當時不想回覆那個人最後一個例子是 你正在跟某人聊天然後說 ""抱歉 我得上班要先離開了""但實際上 你只是覺得無趣 想跟其他人聊以上每個例子都和人際關係有關這是個無時無刻都緊密牽連的世界 一旦你有了我的手機號碼你的確可以在任何時候與我聯繫這些則是一般人可能會說的小謊就像以往家中總管所做的 在我們與其他人之間建立一點緩衝這些行為的特別之處在於他們利用科技產生含糊的回答 因為你並不知道我在哪裡 我在做什麼 或者我跟誰在一起且只是單純地想要保護這段關係而非故意惹人厭 人們這時候是想表達 我現在不太想跟你說話或者我當時並不想跟你說話 但我還是很在乎你我們的關係仍然重要 然而""傀儡""則完全不同 ""傀儡""就其本身而言 與模棱兩可毫不相關 而它是關於身份讓我給你一個最近的例子大約是上星期發生的埃洛里 (R.J. Ellory) 是英國暢銷犯罪小說作家這是他其中一本暢銷書在亞馬遜購物網站上有位評論者Nicodemus Jones (人名) 寫了一段話 我很愛 他說""無論這本書對你有什麼其他影響 它都會碰觸到你內心深處""當然 你會懷疑Nicodemus Jones (人名) 就是埃洛里他給了自己的書給了很多非常正面的評價 而那一點也不意外 其實""傀儡""並非現在才有寫草葉集的惠特曼以前也做過類似的事遠在網路科技之前""傀儡""有趣的是 規模一擴大那就是""中國海軍""的領域了""中國海軍""指的是成千上萬的群眾在中國他們收取小額度的費用在留言提供消息 可能是在評論中 也可能是宣傳裡 政府僱用這些人公司也僱用這些人 到處都有這種做法在北美 我們稱之為 ""Astroturfing"" 偽草根運動偽草根運動現在非常普遍 也有很多不同的手法特別會在產品的評價 書的評論中從飯店的討論到吐司的口感都有 現在 我們來看看這三種評論 或者稱為三種詐欺方式你可能會想說 網路真的讓我們變成一種欺騙的生物 特別是當你提到偽草根運動 我們可以觀察到規模很大的欺騙行為但實際上我研究的結果卻發現並非如此我們先不要討論線上匿名18禁聊天室我相信你們都未曾使用過我可以向你們保證裡面一定有不實的對答也先不要考慮 你收到一封電郵說奈吉利亞的王子要將四千三百萬美金運出國家 (笑)先不要把這些包括在內我們先專注存在於朋友之間家人 同事 和我們所愛的人中的對話這些才是真正重要的對話而科技會怎麼影響我們欺騙這些人呢? 現有有幾個研究 而我們其中一個研究報告稱之為""日記型調查"" 我們要求受試者全程紀錄七天內所有對話 包括所有謊言而我們所做的事就是計算 限於某個媒介他們的對話裡有多少謊話 且我們發現最令人意外的是 電郵在三種媒介中可以說是人們表達最誠實的一種而這結果真的令人震撼 因為我們以為既然沒有非語言暗示 你為什麼不撒更多謊呢?相反地 人們在電話中說更多謊我們不斷地發現 電話是人們最常使用來說謊的器材 或許是因為剛才跟你們說到的""管家式謊言""裡的模棱兩可所造成的這與一般人們所想的非常不同 那麼履歷呢? 我們其中一個研究要求受試者申請工作 他們可以透過用傳統的紙本履歷 或者是Linkedln申請這個是像是臉書的社交網站但是更專業 裡面的資訊就如同履歷一樣我們的發現 出乎意外在Linkedln的履歷相較而言更貼近事實尤其是對於僱主比較看重的事情上 像是之前工作上的責任或者是能力 那臉書呢?你知道的 通常我們會覺得 那些應該是理想化的版本 大家都是把自己生活中最好的一面展現出來 我自己也想過很多次我的朋友們怎麼可能這麼酷 還能保有美好的生活有研究藉由檢視人們的個性來了解臉書上資訊真實性他們找來某個人的四個好友來評斷另外也找來陌生人 很多不認識他的人一起來透過臉書判斷那個人的個性而他們發現那些關於個性的評論其實非常相似 相互有關聯的這代表臉書的人物側寫 是真的可以反應我們真實的個性 那麼線上交友網站呢?我的意思是 那應該會有很多不真實的資訊吧我相信你們都有 ""朋友"" 使用過線上交友 (笑)他們會跟你說 某個男人出現的時候沒有頭髮或者是 那個女人跟照片裡一點也不一樣所以對於此我們非常有興趣 所以我們邀請參加線上交友的人到實驗室然後我們開始測量他們 我們讓他們靠著牆測量身高 然後紀錄他們的體重—那是女士們的最愛 — 然後我們再從他們的駕照上得知年紀我們的研究結果是非常有趣的螢幕上面可以看到一個有關男性與身高的例子水平軸顯示的是他們在個人資料上說自己有多高垂直軸則是他們實際的身高斜線則是實際線 如果點落在線上代表這些人說的是實話你可以看到 大部分的點都在線下代表這些男生在身高上面說謊事實上 差別約是在2.286公分我們在實驗室中戲稱為""身高無條件進位法"" (笑)原來身高是173公分的人 突然間長高到了175公分但重要的是 其實你們看這些點都是相當接近事實 我們發現八成的受試者確實說了關於某個體格的謊 但是差別都只是一點點其中一個理由其實非常簡單 如果你去約會例如一個在咖啡廳的約會 然後你和你所形容的完全不同那遊戲就結束了 對吧? 所以人們常常會說謊 但是只會說一點點謊 不會太離譜 有受到克制 這些研究解釋了些什麼？要如何解釋這個事實就是儘管我們的直覺不相信這件事 我也在內但許多的線上對話 以科技為媒介的溝通 其實比面對面來的真實?這真的很奇怪 到底是什麼原因呢? 要了解這個問題 我們可以先從偵測謊言的文獻開始那是非常久之前的文獻 至少有50年的歷史已經過許多次重新審視 還有上千次的實驗上百次的研究 其中有些非常令人信服的結論 首先 人類並不擅長偵測謊言可以說是非常差 平均僅有54%的準確率判斷這個人是所說的是真的還是假的正確的比例是很低的 為什麼會如此難以判斷呢?這就與小木偶的鼻子有關了如果我詢問你們 你們會以什麼作為判斷的標準當你直視著某人 想知道這個人是否在說謊? 你會注意什麼細節大部分的人可能會說 其中一個要特別注意的就是眼睛 眼睛是靈魂之窗不單單只是你 幾乎全世界 各種文化都會說眼睛是最顯見的線索 但是近乎過去50年的研究顯示實際上並沒有任何線索可尋來辨別真偽 這讓我超級震撼 而且這是其中一個我在擔任海關時最困難的課程眼神無法告訴我們這個人是在說謊或者不是在某些情況下 是的 在高風險的時候 也許瞳孔會放大音調會升高 肢體動作會稍微改變但並非一定 也不是所有人都如此 那是不可靠的是不是很怪呢? 另一件是就算你沒看到我也不代表我就會說謊 那可以說是常識但研究顯示撒謊是有原因的我們會為了保護自己或者是自身利益而說謊也可能為了其他人而說謊當然有人是慣性的騙子 但他們僅是少部分的人 大部分的人說謊是有原因的不會因為沒有面對面 就代表我們一定會說謊 但我認為其實背後有更深更有趣的涵義在內 接下來 我認為有件特別的事情 一個特別的概念 我們可以透過語言發展的歷史來了解大部分的語言學家同意 人類開始說話是在五萬到十萬年前 那是很久很久以前人類是從那時候開始存在我猜話題應該是與火 洞穴劍齒虎相關 其實我不知道他們當時說什麼但他們一定有很多談話 就像我先前所說語言是由很多人逐漸發展而成大概有一千億的人類吧然而重點是寫作約在五千年前才開始發展 意思就是在那之前完全沒有任何紀錄他們所說的任何一句話 所有言論都消失無蹤 毫無痕跡 人間蒸發所以人類是在毫無紀錄的情況下逐步演化出語言 實際在書寫上另一個歷史上巨大的改變是僅僅五百年前也就是印刷業的出現 而那也已經算是很近代的事在二次世界大戰之前 識字率還是相當的低所以過去兩千年大部分人們所說的話 全部消失了 回到現在 網路世代今天現場有多少人紀錄了某件事?今天有誰寫下任何東西? 有人寫過一個字嗎?看起來幾乎每一個人都有記錄一些事現在 這個房間裡 我們所記錄的可能已經超過整個人類史前時代所有的這是非常不可思議的 我們將進入一個時代一個變遷的時代 在人類演化史中 曾經歷過語言難以留下紀錄 而今我們則處在隨時隨地都在紀錄的環境事實上 我認為在不久的將來 不只是我們所寫下的會被紀錄 我們所作的任何事情都會留下紀錄這意謂著什麼呢? 代表著什麼新的概念呢?嗯 身為一個社會學家 這是世上最棒的事情我從未夢想過的 現在 我可以找到在千年以前是會消失的文字紀錄我也可以知道 那些以往是說過就不見的謊言你們還記得那些偽草根的評論嗎? 我們剛剛曾經討論過的那些? 當他們寫下一個假的評價他們必須在某個地方貼文 好讓我們能夠看見 因此我們所做的事情是 舉個例來說看看螢幕上這些文字 是我們支付人們所寫的一些假的評論 其中一個評價不是真的這個人從未到過詹姆士飯店另外一個評論則是真的 這個人曾經到過那裡現在 你們的任務是判別哪一個評價是假的?我會給你們一些時間讀這個文章但是我要每一個人都要舉手發表請記住 我研究詐欺 對我來說判別你們有沒有舉手是很容易的好的 有多少人認為A所說的是假的?很好 大約有一半那有多少人認為B所說的是假的呢?好的 B的較多一些太棒了 公佈答案B評論是假的 第二組人做的很好 你們擊敗了第一組人 (笑)實際上這是有一點反常的現象 我們每次做此示範時通常是一半一半的比例 與研究結果相近 即約百分之五十四的比例 大概在現場(Winnipeg)的人比較多疑一些 也比較能知道何者為真大概是這個寒冷的冬天所致 太棒了 很好 那為什麼要注意這個呢?嗯 現在我可以和我同事利用電腦所做的是我們可以設計會分析的電腦演算法來判斷欺騙所留在文字上的痕跡讓我來指出在假評論中的一些重點第一個是 通常騙子較傾向於敘事型態也就是說他們會編故事是誰? 發生什麼事情? 而這就是會發生的情況假的評論者會寫出他們跟誰在一起他們做了什麼事情 也比較會用第一人稱單數的語態 ""我""比起實際上待過那裡的人使用""我""超過很多他們會將自己強塞入飯店的評論中很想要說服你們 他們曾經待過那裡相反地 實際去過的人們在寫評論時他們身體是確實進入到那個物質的環境他們會偏向寫出更多關於空間的資訊他們會說浴室有多大 或者是你知道 距離飯店多遠才可以購物 現在 你們都相當厲害 大部分的人只能憑機率判斷我們的電腦演算法則是非常準確的 遠較人類準確比人類厲害很多 而這也無法每次都準確這並不是偵測謊言的機器 來去判斷你女朋友是否在短訊上欺騙你們我們相信每個謊言 每種形式的謊言假的飯店評價 假的鞋子評論你女友在短訊上欺騙你各式這類的謊言 都會有語言上面不同的型態 但因為每件事情現在都有了紀錄 我們才可以仔細研究那些形式的謊言 現在 就如同我所說的 身為一個社會科學家 那實在是太棒了那產生了巨大的改變 我們可以從中了解更多關於人類的想法和表達方式從愛到各種看法因為現在所有事情都紀錄了下來 但對於一般人來說有什麼意義呢?對我們生活有什麼樣的影響?我們先忘掉欺騙 其中一個重要的概念我相信是 我們將會留下可尋的痕跡我電郵的寄件箱有很多郵件但我從未看過它 我時常在寫字但我從未觀察我個人的紀錄 我的過去我想 在未來我們能夠了解更多我們可以透過了解我們所寫的 所說的 和所做的反思我們是誰 現在 再回頭看欺騙這個問題 有一些事情希望你們離開時能夠記住第一 在網路上欺騙是非常危險的 是吧?不但你會在你的電腦上留下自己的紀錄你也會在你所欺騙的人那裡留下紀錄你也會將那些紀錄提供給我來分析用電腦演算法來加以辨別所以說 你們大可以繼續這樣做 對我來說是件好事但是討論欺騙這個行為 和我們想如何影響自己的生活時 我認為我們可以回到第歐根尼和孔子 他們較不關心欺騙或者不欺騙 而更在意對自己應該保持真我 而我認為那才是真正重要的現在 當你們要去說或者做某件事情我們該思考一下 我想要這成為我所遺留來的一部分嗎?我個人紀錄裡的一部分?因為在我們所生活的這個數位世代這個網路世代 我們都會留下痕跡非常感謝你們的參與祝福你們會有美好的人生紀錄 (鼓掌)"
