Talk	en	zh-tw
jeff_speck_the_walkable_city	"So I'm a city planner, an urban designer, former arts advocate, trained in architecture and art history, and I want to talk to you today not about design but about America and how America can be more economically resilient, how America can be healthier, and how America can be more environmentally sustainable. And I realize this is a global forum, but I think I need to talk about America because there is a history, in some places, not all, of American ideas being appropriated, being emulated, for better or for worse, around the world. And the worst idea we've ever had is suburban sprawl. It's being emulated in many places as we speak. By suburban sprawl, I refer to the reorganization of the landscape and the creation of the landscape around the requirement of automobile use, and that the automobile that was once an instrument of freedom has become a gas-belching, time-wasting and life-threatening prosthetic device that many of us need just to, most Americans, in fact, need, just to live their daily lives. And there's an alternative. You know, we say, half the world is living in cities. Well, in America, that living in cities, for many of them, they're living in cities still where they're dependent on that automobile. And what I work for, and to do, is to make our cities more walkable. But I can't give design arguments for that that will have as much impact as the arguments that I've learned from the economists, the epidemiologists and the environmentalists. So these are the three arguments that I'm going to give you quickly today. When I was growing up in the '70s, the typical American spent one tenth of their income, American family, on transportation. Since then, we've doubled the number of roads in America, and we now spend one fifth of our income on transportation. Working families, which are defined as earning between 20,000 and 50,000 dollars a year in America are spending more now on transportation than on housing, slightly more, because of this phenomenon called ""drive till you qualify,"" finding homes further and further and further from the city centers and from their jobs, so that they're locked in this, two, three hours, four hours a day of commuting. And these are the neighborhoods, for example, in the Central Valley of California that weren't hurt when the housing bubble burst and when the price of gas went up; they were decimated. And in fact, these are many of the half-vacant communities that you see today. Imagine putting everything you have into your mortgage, it goes underwater, and you have to pay twice as much for all the driving that you're doing. So we know what it's done to our society and all the extra work we have to do to support our cars. What happens when a city decides it's going to set other priorities? And probably the best example we have here in America is Portland, Oregon. Portland made a bunch of decisions in the 1970s that began to distinguish it from almost every other American city. While most other cities were growing an undifferentiated spare tire of sprawl, they instituted an urban growth boundary. While most cities were reaming out their roads, removing parallel parking and trees in order to flow more traffic, they instituted a skinny streets program. And while most cities were investing in more roads and more highways, they actually invested in bicycling and in walking. And they spent 60 million dollars on bike facilities, which seems like a lot of money, but it was spent over about 30 years, so two million dollars a year — not that much — and half the price of the one cloverleaf that they decided to rebuild in that city. These changes and others like them changed the way that Portlanders live, and their vehicle-miles traveled per day, the amount that each person drives, actually peaked in 1996, has been dropping ever since, and they now drive 20 percent less than the rest of the country. The typical Portland citizen drives four miles less, and 11 minutes less per day than they did before. The economist Joe Cortright did the math and he found out that those four miles plus those 11 minutes adds up to fully three and a half percent of all income earned in the region. So if they're not spending that money on driving — and by the way, 85 percent of the money we spend on driving leaves the local economy — if they're not spending that money on driving, what are they spending it on? Well, Portland is reputed to have the most roof racks per capita, the most independent bookstores per capita, the most strip clubs per capita. These are all exaggerations, slight exaggerations of a fundamental truth, which is Portlanders spend a lot more on recreation of all kinds than the rest of America. Actually, Oregonians spend more on alcohol than most other states, which may be a good thing or a bad thing, but it makes you glad they're driving less. (Laughter) But actually, they're spending most of it in their homes, and home investment is about as local an investment as you can get. But there's a whole other Portland story, which isn't part of this calculus, which is that young, educated people have been moving to Portland in droves, so that between the last two censuses, they had a 50-percent increase in college-educated millennials, which is five times what you saw anywhere else in the country, or, I should say, of the national average. So on the one hand, a city saves money for its residents by being more walkable and more bikeable, but on the other hand, it also is the cool kind of city that people want to be in these days. So the best economic strategy you can have as a city is not the old way of trying to attract corporations and trying to have a biotech cluster or a medical cluster, or an aerospace cluster, but to become a place where people want to be. And millennials, certainly, these engines of entrepreneurship, 64 percent of whom decide first where they want to live, then they move there, then they look for a job, they will come to your city. The health argument is a scary one, and you've probably heard part of this argument before. Again, back in the '70s, a lot's changed since then, back in the '70s, one in 10 Americans was obese. Now one out of three Americans is obese, and a second third of the population is overweight. Twenty-five percent of young men and 40 percent of young women are too heavy to enlist in our own military forces. According to the Center for Disease Control, fully one third of all children born after 2000 will get diabetes. We have the first generation of children in America who are predicted to live shorter lives than their parents. I believe that this American healthcare crisis that we've all heard about is an urban design crisis, and that the design of our cities lies at the cure. Because we've talked a long time about diet, and we know that diet impacts weight, and weight of course impacts health. But we've only started talking about inactivity, and how inactivity born of our landscape, inactivity that comes from the fact that we live in a place where there is no longer any such thing as a useful walk, is driving our weight up. And we finally have the studies, one in Britain called ""Gluttony versus sloth"" that tracked weight against diet and tracked weight against inactivity, and found a much higher, stronger correlation between the latter two. Dr. James Levine at, in this case, the aptly-named Mayo Clinic put his test subjects in electronic underwear, held their diet steady, and then started pumping the calories in. Some people gained weight, some people didn't gain weight. Expecting some metabolic or DNA factor at work, they were shocked to learn that the only difference between the subjects that they could figure out was the amount they were moving, and that in fact those who gained weight were sitting, on average, two hours more per day than those who didn't. So we have these studies that tie weight to inactivity, but even more, we now have studies that tie weight to where you live. Do you live in a more walkable city or do you live in a less walkable city, or where in your city do you live? In San Diego, they used Walk Score — Walk Score rates every address in America and soon the world in terms of how walkable it is — they used Walk Score to designate more walkable neighborhoods and less walkable neighborhoods. Well guess what? If you lived in a more walkable neighborhood, you were 35 percent likely to be overweight. If you lived in a less walkable neighborhood, you were 60 percent likely to be overweight. So we have study after study now that's tying where you live to your health, particularly as in America, the biggest health crisis we have is this one that's stemming from environmental-induced inactivity. And I learned a new word last week. They call these neighborhoods ""obesageneric."" I may have that wrong, but you get the idea. Now that's one thing, of course. Briefly mentioning, we have an asthma epidemic in this country. You probably haven't thought that much about it. Fourteen Americans die each day from asthma, three times what it was in the '90s, and it's almost all coming from car exhaust. American pollution does not come from factories anymore, it comes from tailpipes, and the amount that people are driving in your city, your urban VMT, is a good prediction of the asthma problems in your city. And then finally, in terms of driving, there's the issue of the single-largest killer of healthy adults, and one of the largest killers of all people, is car crashes. And we take car crashes for granted. We figure it's a natural risk of being on the road. But in fact, here in America, 12 people out of every 100,000 die every year from car crashes. We're pretty safe here. Well, guess what? In England, it's seven per 100,000. It's Japan, it's four per 100,000. Do you know where it's three per 100,000? New York City. San Francisco, the same thing. Portland, the same thing. Oh, so cities make us safer because we're driving less? Tulsa: 14 per 100,000. Orlando: 20 per 100,000. It's not whether you're in the city or not, it's how is your city designed? Was it designed around cars or around people? Because if your city is designed around cars, it's really good at smashing them into each other. That's part of a much larger health argument. Finally, the environmental argument is fascinating, because the environmentalists turned on a dime about 10 years ago. The environmental movement in America has historically been an anti-city movement from Jefferson on. ""Cities are pestilential to the health, to the liberties, to the morals of man. If we continue to pile upon ourselves in cities, as they do in Europe, we shall become as corrupt as they are in Europe and take to eating one another as they do there."" He apparently had a sense of humor. And then the American environmental movement has been a classically Arcadian movement. To become more environmental, we move into the country, we commune with nature, we build suburbs. But, of course, we've seen what that does. The carbon mapping of America, where is the CO2 being emitted, for many years only hammered this argument in more strongly. If you look at any carbon map, because we map it per square mile, any carbon map of the U.S., it looks like a night sky satellite photo of the U.S., hottest in the cities, cooler in the suburbs, dark, peaceful in the countryside. Until some economists said, you know, is that the right way to measure CO2? There are only so many people in this country at any given time, and we can choose to live where perhaps we would have a lighter impact. And they said, let's measure CO2 per household, and when they did that, the maps just flipped, coolest in the center city, warmer in the suburbs, and red hot in these exurban ""drive till you qualify"" neighborhoods. So a fundamental shift, and now you have environmentalists and economists like Ed Glaeser saying we are a destructive species. If you love nature, the best thing you can do is stay the heck away from it, move to a city, and the denser the better, and the denser cities like Manhattan are the cities that perform the best. So the average Manhattanite is consuming gasoline at the rate the rest of the nation hasn't seen since the '20s, consuming half of the electricity of Dallas. But of course, we can do better. Canadian cities, they consume half the gasoline of American cities. European cities consume half as much again. So obviously, we can do better, and we want to do better, and we're all trying to be green. My final argument in this topic is that I think we're trying to be green the wrong way, and I'm one of many people who believes that this focus on gadgets, on accessorizing — What can I add to my house, what can I add to what I've already got to make my lifestyle more sustainable? — has kind of dominated the discussion. So I'm not immune to this. My wife and I built a new house on an abandoned lot in Washington, D.C., and we did our best to clear the shelves of the sustainability store. We've got the solar photovoltaic system, solar hot water heater, dual-flush toilets, bamboo floors. A log burning in my German high-tech stove apparently, supposedly, contributes less carbon to the atmosphere than were it left alone to decompose in the forest. Yet all of these innovations — That's what they said in the brochure. (Laughter) All of these innovations together contribute a fraction of what we contribute by living in a walkable neighborhood three blocks from a metro in the heart of a city. We've changed all our light bulbs to energy-savers, and you should do the same thing, but changing all your light bulbs to energy-savers saves as much energy in a year as moving to a walkable city does in a week. And we don't want to have this argument. Politicians and marketers are afraid of marketing green as a ""lifestyle choice."" You don't want to tell Americans, God forbid, that they have to change their lifestyle. But what if lifestyle was really about quality of life and about perhaps something that we would all enjoy more, something that would be better than what we have right now? Well, the gold standard of quality of life rankings, it's called the Mercer Survey. You may have heard of it. They rank hundreds of nations worldwide according to 10 criteria that they believe add up to quality of life: health, economics, education, housing, you name it. There's six more. Short talk. (Laughter) And it's very interesting to see that the highest-ranking American city, Honolulu, number 28, is followed by kind of the usual suspects of Seattle and Boston and all walkable cities. The driving cities in the Sun Belt, the Dallases and the Phoenixes and, sorry, Atlanta, these cities are not appearing on the list. But who's doing even better? The Canadian cities like Vancouver, where again, they're burning half the fuel. And then it's usually won by cities where they speak German, like Dusseldorf or Vienna, where they're burning, again, half as much fuel. And you see this alignment, this strange alignment. Is being more sustainble what gives you a higher quality of life? I would argue the same thing that makes you more sustainble is what gives you a higher quality of life, and that's living in a walkable neighborhood. So sustainability, which includes our wealth and our health may not be a direct function of our sustainability. But particularly here in America, we are polluting so much because we're throwing away our time and our money and our lives on the highway, then these two problems would seem to share the same solution, which is to make our cities more walkable. Doing so isn't easy, but it can be done, it has been done, and it's being done now in more than a few cities, around the globe and in our country. I take some solace from Winston Churchill, who put it this way: ""The Americans can be counted on to do the right thing once they have exhausted the alternatives."" (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	我是都市計劃師、城市設計師以前是藝術倡導者學過建築和藝術史我今天要談的不是設計而是美國美國的經濟如何能更強韌美國怎樣才會更健康美國的環境怎樣才能永續我明白這是全球論壇但我認為需要談談美國因為歷史告訴我們世界有些地方美國人的觀念無論是好是壞會被竊用、被仿效這種現象舉世可見 我們最壞的點子是郊區的擴展此刻很多城市正在仿效我所謂郊區擴展，是指重整地景或是建造地景完全以汽車的使用需求為前提汽車過去是解放人的工具如今已變成消耗汽油浪費時間、威脅生命像義肢一樣的裝備我們許多人事實上大多數美國人日常生活不可無車但我們還是有選擇全世界一半的人口住在城市不過在美國很多人即使住在城市仍然依賴汽車我的志業和工作目標是讓城市更適宜步行但我不打算談設計方面的論點雖然這方面的衝擊也不小我要談的論據來自經濟學家、流行病學家以及環保人士這三方面的論據今天我會很快地探討 在我成長的1970年代美國一般家庭所得的十分之一花在交通上如今我們的道路已經倍增現在我們所得的五分之一花在交通上工薪家庭在美國的定義是每年工作收入兩萬至五萬美元的家庭他們現在的交通花費略高於住房費用有個現象叫做「開到你買得起為止」買得起的房子越來越偏遠遠離市中心和上班的地方所以他們必須花兩三個小時甚至四個小時通勤這種通勤社區的例子就在加州的中央山谷房市泡沫破滅的時候以及油價上漲的時候社區不只是受創，而是消亡其實現在還看得到很多半數是空屋的這種社區想想看，錢都拿去付了房貸房價卻低於房貸欠款偏偏通勤的油費又倍增 所以我們明白社會受到的衝擊以及為了行車必須做的額外付出如果一個城市不把汽車視為優先又會如何？美國的最佳例子可能是奧勒崗州的波特蘭波特蘭在1970年代的一些決定導致該城脫穎而出美國其他城市鮮少匹敵其他大多數城市無計劃地向郊區蔓延波特蘭則設立了都市成長的界限其他大多數城市在擴張道路移除路邊停車位和樹木以便增加交通流量波特蘭則訂定了窄路計劃其他大多數城市在建設更多公路和高速公路，波特蘭則把錢花在自行車和步行方面光是自行車設施就花了他們六千萬看起來很多錢不過那是30年的總花費平均每年兩百萬美元，也不算貴他們重建一個立體交流道要花一倍的錢這些及其他類似的變更改變了波特蘭人生活的方式他們每天行車的里程數每人開車的里程數其實在1996年達到高峰然後就持續下降他們現在開車的里程數比全國其他人少兩成波特蘭一般市民開車每天里程數比以前少了四哩時間比以前少了11分鐘經濟學家喬伊．柯爾賴特 (Joe Cortright) 做了計算他發現這四哩以及11分鐘的耗費足足等於波特蘭地區總所得的3.5% 從開車上面省下的錢順便提一下，開車的花費85%流出地方經濟這些從開車上面省下的錢波特蘭人花到哪去了？波特蘭聞名的是休閒用車頂置物架人均最多獨立書店人均最多脫衣舞俱樂部人均最多我誇大了，稍微誇大了但事實上波特蘭人花在各種休閒活動的錢遠超乎其他美國人其實奧勒崗人喝酒的花費高出其他州的居民是福是禍不知道但我們樂見他們較少開車 （笑聲） 其實他們在住家上花的錢最多還有什麼能比住家的投資更能注入地方經濟？但是波特蘭還有個現象是經濟學家沒計算的那就是受過教育的年輕人成群結隊地搬到波特蘭過去兩次人口普查之間大學畢業的千禧世代人口增加了五成是其他地方的五倍應該說是全國平均的五倍 適宜步行和騎單車的城市一方面替市民省錢另一方面也是很酷的城市是大家喜歡居住的地方所以最佳經濟策略城市對於城市而言不是吸引企業那種老套不是要建立生技園區或醫療園區或航太園區而是要成為宜居的城市無疑是創業引擎的千禧世代64%會先決定要住在哪裡他們會先搬過去，再找工作宜居的城市近悅遠來 健康方面的論點就可怕了你們可能略知一二再回到和現在非常不同的1970年代那個年代有一成的美國人過胖如今美國人三分之一過胖另外三分之一過重二成五的年輕男性以及四成的女性因為過重不符合軍隊入伍標準根據美國疾病管制中心2000年以後出生的兒童三成會得糖尿病這一代的孩子會創下首例平均壽命預計會低於上一代 我認為這個美國的保健危機我們都聽說過的危機是城市設計的危機城市設計才是治癒的關鍵我們長期以來關注飲食我們明白飲食影響體重體重自然會影響健康但是我們才開始探討少活動以及造成少活動的地景環境我們居住的環境讓走路的功用大不如前我們的體重因而上升現在終於有了相關研究英國的研究「好吃與懶做對比」追蹤飲食和體重的關係以及活動量和體重的關係發現相關度更高的是活動量和體重詹姆斯．萊文 (James Levine) 醫生現任職於馬約（Mayo，諧音美乃滋）醫學中心他讓實驗對象穿上電子內衣保持定量的飲食然後開始增加熱量有些人開始變重有些人體重沒增加研究人員預測是代謝或遺傳因素結果卻令他們大吃一驚他們找出的唯一差別因素是實驗對象的活動量體重增加的人比沒增重者每天平均多坐兩小時 我們已有研究指出體重和活動量有關，但不僅如此有研究顯示，跟你住哪裡也有關你是住在適宜步行的城市還是住在走路不便的城市在城市的哪個區也有關係聖地牙哥使用了「步行分數」(Walk Score)——「步行分數」評估美國的每個住址即將擴及全球根據適宜步行的程度評分——聖地牙哥用「步行分數」區分鄰里是否適宜步行你知道嗎？住在適合走路的鄰里過重的機率是35%住在較不適合走路的鄰里過重的機率則是60%已有接二連三的研究指出居住的地點和你的健康息息相關，尤其在美國我們健康的最大危機來自居住環境造成的活動量減少我上週學到了一個新詞這種鄰里叫做「肥胖區」(obesageneric)我可能沒拼對，但意思你們懂 有件事一定要提簡而言之，就是氣喘病在美國流行你可能沒注意到每天有14個美國人死於氣喘病人數是1990年代的三倍肇因幾乎全部來自汽車的廢氣美國的污染不再來自工廠而是來自汽車的排氣管決定於城市人開車的多寡城市開車的里程數是氣喘問題的良好指標 關於開車還有一件事殺害健康成人的最大兇手殺害所有人的最大兇手之一就是車禍我們對車禍習以為常我們認為開車自然會有風險但事實上，每年在美國十萬分之十二的人死於車禍我們相當安全但你知道嗎？英國是十萬分之七日本則是十萬分之四你知道哪裡是十萬分之三嗎紐約市舊金山也一樣，波特蘭也如此噢，城市比較安全是因為城市人較少開車？突沙市：十萬分之十四奧蘭多：十萬分之二十所以是否在城市不重要城市的規劃才重要規劃是以人還是以車為中心？因為如果以車為中心出車禍的機率很高 這是健康論據的一小部分 最後，環境方面的論據令人著迷因為環保人士在十年前快速轉變了立場美國的環保運動過去一直是反對城市的運動可回溯至傑弗遜總統 「城市有害於健康自由和人之道德如果我們不斷聚集在城市就像歐洲一樣，我們也將像歐洲一樣腐敗像他們一樣人吃人。」 傑佛遜顯然頗有幽默感 然後美國的環保運動一直是正統的田園運動為了保護環境，我們搬到鄉下我們與自然交融，我們建立郊區但是我們當然也看到了後果 美國的碳地圖標示了二氧化碳的排放位置多年以來更加深了我們的刻板印象碳地圖顯示每平方哩的排放量因此任何美國的碳地圖看似美國夜間衛星空照圖城市看起來炙熱，郊區比較冷清鄉下則一片漆黑與平靜直到經濟學家表示質疑這樣衡量碳排對嗎？如果全國總人數不變我們可以選擇住在人均碳排較少的地方他們提議測量平均家戶碳排方法改變後，碳地圖豬羊變色市中心最為冷清，郊區色澤較暖呈現火紅的是鄉間就是「開到你買得起為止」的地方因此看法有了根本改變愛德華．格雷瑟 (Edward Glaeser) 之類的環保人士和經濟學家表示人類是具毀滅性的物種喜愛自然的人最應該做的是離開那裡搬到城市，人口密度越高越好像曼哈頓一樣的高密度城市表現的成績最好曼哈頓居民平均汽油消耗之低是美國其他地方1920年代以來所未見耗電量是達拉斯的一半當然我們還有改善的空間加拿大相較美國，城市汽油消耗少一半歐洲城市的汽油消耗也是少一半顯然我們還有空間可以改善我們也想改善，大家都在致力於環保 我最後在這個議題的論點是我認為我們的環保走錯了方向我和很多人一樣認為關注小器具關注附加物——我的住家可以添加什麼我在現有之上可以加點什麼才能讓生活方式更能持續？——這種思維似乎主導了議題我也跳不出窠臼我和妻子在華盛頓特區廢棄的土地上蓋新房子我們選購居家用品盡量在綠色商店我們買了太陽能光伏發電系統太陽能熱水器，兩段式抽水馬桶竹製地板德國製高科技爐灶燃燒木頭碳排量據稱顯然低於讓木頭在森林中自行腐敗然而這些創新剛才那個來自產品說明（笑聲）這些所有的創新加起來效果遠遠不如居住在適合步行的鄰里在市中心離捷運三條街的地方我家已經全面換裝節能燈泡你們也應該這麼做但是全面換裝節能燈泡每年省下的能源只等於搬到適宜步行的城市一周 這點大家避而不談政客和商人都不敢把環保宣傳為「生活方式的選擇」誰敢告訴美國人應該要改變生活方式但如果生活方式攸關生活品質或許攸關我們更享受的東西優於我們現有的東西又如何？ 生活品質評比的金字招牌叫做默瑟調查 (Mercer Survey)你們或許聽過他們評比世界上百個國家認為生活品質有十個標準：健康、經濟、教育住家等等還有六個，但時間有限 （笑聲） 有趣的是美國排名最前面的是檀香山第28名，其次的城市也在意料之中西雅圖和波士頓，都適宜步行陽光帶的開車城市達拉斯、鳳凰城之類，抱歉亞特蘭大這些城市都沒上榜但哪些城市更名列前茅？加拿大的溫哥華我提過他們的耗油量少一半德語城市也常上榜例如杜塞道夫和維也納他們的耗油量也少一半兩種指標成正比，出乎意外 採取更永續的生活方式能提高生活品質嗎？我認為讓我們生活更能持續之事確實會提高我們的生活品質那就是住在適宜步行的鄰里生活可持續與否，包括財富和健康未必是影響我們持續的關鍵因素但是尤其在美國我們污染過多是因為我們浪費時間金錢和生命在公路上似乎這兩個問題解決辦法相同，那就是讓城市更適宜步行 要做到不容易，但是絕對可行已有成功的例子成功實行的城市在全球和美國並不罕見邱吉爾的話讓我感到安慰他是這麼說的：「可以信賴美國人做對的事情只要等他們錯事做盡了。」（笑聲） 謝謝 （掌聲）
