Talk	en	zh-tw
jeff_kirschner_this_app_makes_it_fun_to_pick_up_litter	"This story starts with these two — my kids. We were hiking in the Oakland woods when my daughter noticed a plastic tub of cat litter in a creek. She looked at me and said, ""Daddy? That doesn't go there."" When she said that, it reminded me of summer camp. On the morning of visiting day, right before they'd let our anxious parents come barreling through the gates, our camp director would say, ""Quick! Everyone pick up five pieces of litter."" You get a couple hundred kids each picking up five pieces, and pretty soon, you've got a much cleaner camp. So I thought, why not apply that crowdsourced cleanup model to the entire planet? And that was the inspiration for Litterati. The vision is to create a litter-free world. Let me show you how it started. I took a picture of a cigarette using Instagram. Then I took another photo ... and another photo ... and another photo. And I noticed two things: one, litter became artistic and approachable; and two, at the end of a few days, I had 50 photos on my phone and I had picked up each piece, and I realized that I was keeping a record of the positive impact I was having on the planet. That's 50 less things that you might see, or you might step on, or some bird might eat. So I started telling people what I was doing, and they started participating. One day, this photo showed up from China. And that's when I realized that Litterati was more than just pretty pictures; we were becoming a community that was collecting data. Each photo tells a story. It tells us who picked up what, a geotag tells us where and a time stamp tells us when. So I built a Google map, and started plotting the points where pieces were being picked up. And through that process, the community grew and the data grew. My two kids go to school right in that bullseye. Litter: it's blending into the background of our lives. But what if we brought it to the forefront? What if we understood exactly what was on our streets, our sidewalks and our school yards? How might we use that data to make a difference? Well, let me show you. The first is with cities. San Francisco wanted to understand what percentage of litter was cigarettes. Why? To create a tax. So they put a couple of people in the streets with pencils and clipboards, who walked around collecting information which led to a 20-cent tax on all cigarette sales. And then they got sued by big tobacco, who claimed that collecting information with pencils and clipboards is neither precise nor provable. The city called me and asked if our technology could help. I'm not sure they realized that our technology was my Instagram account — (Laughter) But I said, ""Yes, we can."" (Laughter) ""And we can tell you if that's a Parliament or a Pall Mall. Plus, every photograph is geotagged and time-stamped, providing you with proof."" Four days and 5,000 pieces later, our data was used in court to not only defend but double the tax, generating an annual recurring revenue of four million dollars for San Francisco to clean itself up. Now, during that process I learned two things: one, Instagram is not the right tool — (Laughter) so we built an app. And two, if you think about it, every city in the world has a unique litter fingerprint, and that fingerprint provides both the source of the problem and the path to the solution. If you could generate a revenue stream just by understanding the percentage of cigarettes, well, what about coffee cups or soda cans or plastic bottles? If you could fingerprint San Francisco, well, how about Oakland or Amsterdam or somewhere much closer to home? And what about brands? How might they use this data to align their environmental and economic interests? There's a block in downtown Oakland that's covered in blight. The Litterati community got together and picked up 1,500 pieces. And here's what we learned: most of that litter came from a very well-known taco brand. Most of that brand's litter were their own hot sauce packets, and most of those hot sauce packets hadn't even been opened. The problem and the path to the solution — well, maybe that brand only gives out hot sauce upon request or installs bulk dispensers or comes up with more sustainable packaging. How does a brand take an environmental hazard, turn it into an economic engine and become an industry hero? If you really want to create change, there's no better place to start than with our kids. A group of fifth graders picked up 1,247 pieces of litter just on their school yard. And they learned that the most common type of litter were the plastic straw wrappers from their own cafeteria. So these kids went to their principal and asked, ""Why are we still buying straws?"" And they stopped. And they learned that individually they could each make a difference, but together they created an impact. It doesn't matter if you're a student or a scientist, whether you live in Honolulu or Hanoi, this is a community for everyone. It started because of two little kids in the Northern California woods, and today it's spread across the world. And you know how we're getting there? One piece at a time. Thank you. (Applause)"	"故事是從這兩位開始的──我的孩子們。當時我們在奧克蘭森林健行，我的女兒發現河裡有個塑膠貓砂盆。她看著我說：「爸比？」「這不應該在這裡。」 這句話讓我聯想到夏令營。在開放家長參觀日的早上，在著急的家長來到營地門口之前，營地指揮官會說：「快！每個人要撿 5 件垃圾。」幾百位孩子，每個人撿 5 件垃圾，很快的，營區變得乾淨許多。於是我在想，為何不將這種「群眾外包」的清理方式套用在整個地球上？這就是 ""Litterati"" 愛垃圾活動的起源。 目的是創造「零垃圾」的世界。事情是這樣開始的：我用 Instagram 拍了張香煙的照片，再拍另一張照片……再一張……又一張。我注意到兩件事：第一，垃圾變得更有藝術感，也更容易親近。 第二，經過幾天之後，我總共拍了 50 張照片，每張照片都是我所撿的垃圾，我發現我正在紀錄著我對於地球的正面影響。減少的這 50 件垃圾，可能是你會看到的、你可能踩到的、甚至是某些鳥類可能誤食的。 因此我開始向大家說明我正在做的事，而大家也跟著參與。有一天，在中國出現了這張照片。當時我意識到，Litterati 不是只有漂亮的照片而已，我們漸漸形成一個收集資料的社群。每張照片背後都有一個故事，包括誰撿了什麼垃圾、在哪裡撿的、以及什麼時候撿的。因此我做了一張 Google 地圖，開始標示出垃圾被檢起的地點。隨著這個過程，社群逐漸擴大了，資料也增加了。地圖中間的區域，就是我家小孩就讀的學校。 垃圾：正悄悄與我們共存。但如果我們將它放大檢視？如果我們能注意到街道上、人行道上和校園裡有什麼垃圾，將會變得如何？我們要如何利用數據改變現況？ 好，讓我來告訴你們。首先，將數據與城市結合。舊金山想知道垃圾之中有多少比例是煙蒂。為什麼？為了增加一種稅收。他們請人到街道上，帶著筆與寫字板，到處收集資料，並決定販售香菸時，每包收 20 美分的稅。然後他們被大型菸草業者控告，業者主張，用紙筆收集資料的方式，既不準確也不可靠。市政府找上我，希望我們的技術能提供協助。我不確定他們是否知道：我們的技術就是我的 Instagram 帳號。 （笑聲） 但我說：「是的，當然可以！」 （笑聲） 「我們還能分辨香菸的牌子是百樂門或是寶馬。而且，每張照片還能標示位置及時間，提供給你們作為證據。」經過 4 天，撿了 5,000 件垃圾之後，我們的資料在開庭時被採納，不僅捍衛了我方的主張，還讓稅收增加一倍，產生每年四百萬美金的經常性收入，而且舊金山街道也變得更乾淨了。 從這個過程中，我學到兩件事：第一，Instagram 並不是適當的工具── （笑聲） 因此，我們研發了專屬的應用程式。 第二，如果你試著想一想，在世界上每座城市，都有獨特的垃圾指紋，而這些指紋不僅可以提供問題的根源，還能告訴你解決的方法。如果能藉由瞭解煙蒂的比例來增加收益來源，那如果用在咖啡紙杯、汽水罐，或是塑膠瓶呢？如果能找出舊金山的垃圾指紋，那奧克蘭呢？阿姆斯特丹？或是某個離家更近的地方？另外如果用在品牌上呢？要如何利用數據，使環保和經濟的效益達到一致？ 在奧克蘭市區，有一個荒廢的區域，Litterati 社群在那裡撿了 1,500 件垃圾，我們從當中得知一件事：大部分的垃圾來自於某間知名的墨西哥餐廳。其中大部分的垃圾是餐廳的辣椒醬包，而且這些辣椒醬包幾乎都沒被打開過。所以這個問題的解決方法是──也許餐廳可以在客人要求時才給醬包，或是安裝自助式醬料機，或是研發更環保的包裝方式。業者要如何將環境危害，轉變成經濟上的驅動力，並成為產業的領導品牌？ 如果你真的想要改變，最好的方法就是從孩子開始。有一群國小五年級學生在校園裡撿了 1,247 件垃圾。他們發現最常見的垃圾，是來自學校餐廳的吸管塑膠外套。於是這群孩子們去問校長：「為什麼我們還要採購吸管呢？」然後他們停止提供吸管了。他們學習到，靠個人的力量固然能帶來一些改變，但是當一群人聚集起來，才能產生影響。 無論你是學生還是科學家，住在夏威夷的檀香山，還是越南的河內市，Litterati 社群是屬於每個人的。它起源於兩個小毛頭在北加州森林的發現，到了今天，範圍已遍佈全球各地。我們是如何辦到的？只要隨手撿起垃圾。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
