Talk	en	zh-tw
jenni_chang_and_lisa_dazols_this_is_what_lgbt_life_is_like_around_the_world	"Jenni Chang: When I told my parents I was gay, the first thing they said to me was, ""We're bringing you back to Taiwan."" (Laughter) In their minds, my sexual orientation was America's fault. The West had corrupted me with divergent ideas, and if only my parents had never left Taiwan, this would not have happened to their only daughter. In truth, I wondered if they were right. Of course, there are gay people in Asia, just as there are gay people in every part of the world. But is the idea of living an ""out"" life, in the ""I'm gay, this is my spouse, and we're proud of our lives together"" kind of way just a Western idea? If I had grown up in Taiwan, or any place outside of the West, would I have found models of happy, thriving LGBT people? Lisa Dazols: I had similar notions. As an HIV social worker in San Francisco, I had met many gay immigrants. They told me their stories of persecution in their home countries, just for being gay, and the reasons why they escaped to the US. I saw how this had beaten them down. After 10 years of doing this kind of work, I needed better stories for myself. I knew the world was far from perfect, but surely not every gay story was tragic. JC: So as a couple, we both had a need to find stories of hope. So we set off on a mission to travel the world and look for the people we finally termed as the ""Supergays."" (Laughter) These would be the LGBT individuals who were doing something extraordinary in the world. They would be courageous, resilient, and most of all, proud of who they were. They would be the kind of person that I aspire to be. Our plan was to share their stories to the world through film. LD: There was just one problem. We had zero reporting and zero filmmaking experience. (Laughter) We didn't even know where to find the Supergays, so we just had to trust that we'd figure it all out along the way. So we picked 15 countries in Asia, Africa and South America, countries outside the West that varied in terms of LGBT rights. We bought a camcorder, ordered a book on how to make a documentary — (Laughter) you can learn a lot these days — and set off on an around-the-world trip. JC: One of the first countries that we traveled to was Nepal. Despite widespread poverty, a decade-long civil war, and now recently, a devastating earthquake, Nepal has made significant strides in the fight for equality. One of the key figures in the movement is Bhumika Shrestha. A beautiful, vibrant transgendered woman, Bhumika has had to overcome being expelled from school and getting incarcerated because of her gender presentation. But, in 2007, Bhumika and Nepal's LGBT rights organization successfully petitioned the Nepali Supreme Court to protect against LGBT discrimination. Here's Bhumika: (Video) BS: What I'm most proud of? I'm a transgendered person. I'm so proud of my life. On December 21, 2007, the supreme court gave the decision for the Nepal government to give transgender identity cards and same-sex marriage. LD: I can appreciate Bhumika's confidence on a daily basis. Something as simple as using a public restroom can be a huge challenge when you don't fit in to people's strict gender expectations. Traveling throughout Asia, I tended to freak out women in public restrooms. They weren't used to seeing someone like me. I had to come up with a strategy, so that I could just pee in peace. (Laughter) So anytime I would enter a restroom, I would thrust out my chest to show my womanly parts, and try to be as non-threatening as possible. Putting out my hands and saying, ""Hello"", just so that people could hear my feminine voice. This all gets pretty exhausting, but it's just who I am. I can't be anything else. JC: After Nepal, we traveled to India. On one hand, India is a Hindu society, without a tradition of homophobia. On the other hand, it is also a society with a deeply patriarchal system, which rejects anything that threatens the male-female order. When we spoke to activists, they told us that empowerment begins with ensuring proper gender equality, where the women's status is established in society. And in that way, the status of LGBT people can be affirmed as well. LD: There we met Prince Manvendra. He's the world's first openly gay prince. Prince Manvendra came out on the ""Oprah Winfrey Show,"" very internationally. His parents disowned him and accused him of bringing great shame to the royal family. We sat down with Prince Manvendra and talked to him about why he decided to come out so very publicly. Here he is: (Video) Prince Manvendra:  I felt there was a lot of need to break this stigma and discrimination which is existing in our society. And that instigated me to come out openly and talk about myself. Whether we are gay, we are lesbian, we are transgender, bisexual or whatever sexual minority we come from, we have to all unite and fight for our rights. Gay rights cannot be won in the court rooms, but in the hearts and the minds of the people. JC: While getting my hair cut, the woman cutting my hair asked me, ""Do you have a husband?"" Now, this was a dreaded question that I got asked a lot by locals while traveling. When I explained to her that I was with a woman instead of a man, she was incredulous, and she asked me a lot of questions about my parents' reactions and whether I was sad that I'd never be able to have children. I told her that there are no limitations to my life and that Lisa and I do plan to have a family some day. Now, this woman was ready to write me off as yet another crazy Westerner. She couldn't imagine that such a phenomenon could happen in her own country. That is, until I showed her the photos of the Supergays that we interviewed in India. She recognized Prince Manvendra from television and soon I had an audience of other hairdressers interested in meeting me. (Laughter) And in that ordinary afternoon, I had the chance to introduce an entire beauty salon to the social changes that were happening in their own country. LD: From India, we traveled to East Africa, a region known for intolerance towards LGBT people. In Kenya, 89 percent of people who come out to their families are disowned. Homosexual acts are a crime and can lead to incarceration. In Kenya, we met the soft-spoken David Kuria. David had a huge mission of wanting to work for the poor and improve his own government. So he decided to run for senate. He became Kenya's first openly gay political candidate. David wanted to run his campaign without denying the reality of who he was. But we were worried for his safety because he started to receive death threats. (Video) David Kuria:  At that point, I was really scared because they were actually asking for me to be killed. And, yeah, there are some people out there who do it and they feel that they are doing a religious obligation. JC: David wasn't ashamed of who he was. Even in the face of threats, he stayed authentic. LD: At the opposite end of the spectrum is Argentina. Argentina's a country where 92 percent of the population identifies as Catholic. Yet, Argentina has LGBT laws that are even more progressive than here in the US. In 2010, Argentina became the first country in Latin America and the 10th in the world to adopt marriage equality. There, we met María Rachid. María was a driving force behind that movement. María Rachid (Spanish): I always say that, in reality, the effects of marriage equality are not only for those couples that get married. They are for a lot of people that, even though they may never get married, will be perceived differently by their coworkers, their families and neighbors, from the national state's message of equality. I feel very proud of Argentina because Argentina today is a model of equality. And hopefully soon, the whole world will have the same rights. JC: When we made the visit to my ancestral lands, I wish I could have shown my parents what we found there. Because here is who we met: (Video) One, two, three. Welcome gays to Shanghai! (Laughter) A whole community of young, beautiful Chinese LGBT people. Sure, they had their struggles. But they were fighting it out. In Shanghai, I had the chance to speak to a local lesbian group and tell them our story in my broken Mandarin Chinese. In Taipei, each time we got onto the metro, we saw yet another lesbian couple holding hands. And we learned that Asia's largest LGBT pride event happens just blocks away from where my grandparents live. If only my parents knew. LD: By the time we finished our not-so-straight journey around the world, (Laughter) we had traveled 50,000 miles and logged 120 hours of video footage. We traveled to 15 countries and interviewed 50 Supergays. Turns out, it wasn't hard to find them at all. JC: Yes, there are still tragedies that happen on the bumpy road to equality. And let's not forget that 75 countries still criminalize homosexuality today. But there are also stories of hope and courage in every corner of the world. What we ultimately took away from our journey is, equality is not a Western invention. LD: One of the key factors in this equality movement is momentum, momentum as more and more people embrace their full selves and use whatever opportunities they have to change their part of the world, and momentum as more and more countries find models of equality in one another. When Nepal protected against LGBT discrimination, India pushed harder. When Argentina embraced marriage equality, Uruguay and Brazil followed. When Ireland said yes to equality, (Applause) the world stopped to notice. When the US Supreme Court makes a statement to the world that we can all be proud of. (Applause) JC: As we reviewed our footage, what we realized is that we were watching a love story. It wasn't a love story that was expected of me, but it is one filled with more freedom, adventure and love than I could have ever possibly imagined. One year after returning home from our trip, marriage equality came to California. And in the end, we believe, love will win out. (Video) By the power vested in me, by the state of California and by God Almighty, I now pronounce you spouses for life. You may kiss. (Applause)"	Chang：當我告訴父母我是同性戀時，他們立即對我說：「我們要帶你回台灣。」（笑聲）在他們看來我的性取向都是美國害的，西方墮落文化讓我誤入歧途，如果我的父母沒有離開台灣，這種事情也不會發生在我身上。事實上，我覺得他們這種想法也許是對的。當然，亞洲也有許多同性戀，就如分佈在世界每個角落的同性戀人群一樣。但是過一種「出櫃」的生活，「我是同性戀，這是我的伴侶，我為我們的同居生活感到驕傲」這只是西方人的想法嗎？如果我在台灣，或是在西方以外的地方長大，我能在 LGBT 群體中找到幸福的方式嗎？Dazols：我也有同樣的疑問。作為一名舊金山市的愛滋病社工，我見過許多同性戀移民，給我講述了許多他們的故事，在其故國僅因是同性戀，所以遭受重重壓迫，因此他們逃到美國，我也見到他們因此所受的打擊。從事這項工作 10 年後，我需要一些更美好的故事。我知道世界是如此的不完美，但是可以肯定的是，不是每個同性戀的命運都如此坎坷。Chang：作為情侶，我們需要找尋一些關於希望的故事。所以我們開始了一場環遊世界的旅行，去尋找那些被我們稱之為「超人同志」的人。（笑聲）他們是 LGBT 群體中的一員，在世界的某處做著一些非凡的事情。他們勇敢、堅韌，且最重要的是，他們為自己感到驕傲，他們是我所渴望成為的那類人。我們希望通過電影向世界傳播他們的故事。Dazols：但是有一個問題。我們沒有採訪及拍攝電影方面的經驗。（笑聲）我甚至不知道去哪兒找到這些超人同志，所以我們唯有堅信在旅途中一定會找到他們。所以我們從亞洲、非洲和南美洲中選出 15 個國家，這些不像西方國家一樣有著各種各樣的 LGBT 權益。我們買了一台錄影機，和一本教你如何拍攝紀錄片的書——（笑聲）在這些日子裡你可以學到很多——並且開始一趟環球之旅。Chang：我們前往的首批國家中，其中之一是尼泊爾，儘管貧困處處，且深陷幾十年的內戰中，最近還遭遇到毀滅性的地震災害，但是尼泊爾的平權運動卻取得重要進步，而這場運動其中關鍵人物便是布米卡·沙萊什塔，一位美麗且充滿朝氣的變性女子。布米卡曾經被學校驅逐，且因為表達自己性別而鋃鐺入獄。但在 2007 年布米卡與尼泊爾當地 LGBT 權益組織，向尼泊爾最高法院所提出的反對 LGBT 歧視請願獲得成功。這是布米卡說的：（影片）布米卡：我最應該感到驕傲的是什麼？我是一個變性人。我為自己感到驕傲。在2007年12月21日，最高法院裁定尼泊爾政府須授予變性人身份證以及准許同性婚姻。Dazols：我非常欣賞布米卡每天所展演的自信，就上公共廁所這樣簡單的事情，當你無法與大眾嚴格區分的性別相匹配時，這便是巨大的挑戰。在亞洲之旅中，在公共洗手間裡我變成女性中的異類，她們很少見到像我這樣的女生。我必須運用一些策略，才能安心尿尿。（笑聲）無論何時我要進入洗手間，我會挺起胸膛展示女性化的部分，並盡可能的做到人畜無害的樣子。把手伸出來打招呼，「你好」，這樣她們就可以聽見我女性化的聲音。這些雖然讓我很疲憊，但我就是這樣，也不可能變成其他樣子。Chang：尼泊爾後，我們到印度去。一方面，印度是印度教社會，沒有恐同的傳統。但是，另一方面，它是個極為深厚的父權社會，排斥所有危及男女地位的威脅。我們跟社會活動家溝通，他們說賦權開始於確保男女間的平等，女性的地位在社會中得以確立。同樣地，LGBT 者的地位也同樣能得到確立。Dazols：在那裡我們遇到王子曼文達拉殿下，他是世界上第一位公開出櫃的王子。曼文達拉王子在 Oprah Winfrey Show節目中公開出櫃，一檔這樣國際化的節目。他的父母跟他斷絕關係，並指責他使皇室蒙羞。我們與曼文德拉王子同席而坐，並聊到他為何要在如此公開的場合出櫃，他這樣說：（影片）曼文德拉王子：我認為我們急需打破那些烙印在我們社會中的醜化和歧視。這點促使我站出來公開出櫃，並分享自己的經歷。無論我們是男同性戀、女同性戀、跨性別者、雙性戀、或是其他性少數者，我們必須聯合起來為自己的權益而戰。同性戀的權益並非通過法庭審判來贏取，而是扎根在大家的心裡和腦海。Chang：當我去理髮時，那個替我理髮的女人問我，「你有丈夫嗎？」啊，這個可怕的問題，但在旅行中我曾經被許多當地人問過。當我向她解釋我跟女性而不是男性在一起，她將信將疑，而且問到許多關於我父母對此事有何反應的問題，並問我沒辦法生育是不是很難過？我告訴她這些都無法制約我的人生而且 Lisa 和我計劃著某一天可以組建一個家庭。現在這位女士也準備把我劃入又一個瘋狂的西方人行列。她無法想像這樣的事情會發生在她的國家。但是，當我向她展示那些在印度採訪到的超人同志時，她認出那位在電視上見過的曼文德拉王子殿下，很快我就有了一群髮型師聽眾，她們都非常感興趣。（笑聲）在那個極為平常的午後，我有機會向整家美容沙龍介紹那些她們國家正在發生的社會變革。Dazols：我們從印度出發前往東非，這個地方因對 LGBT 人群極為不友善而聞名於世。在肯尼亞， 89% 同性戀者向家人出櫃後都會與家裡斷絕關係。同性戀在當地等同犯罪，並且會招致監禁。在肯尼亞，我們遇到溫和演說者大衛庫利亞。大衛肩負著艱巨的使命要為解決貧困及改進他們的政府而戰，所以他決定參選參議院。他成為肯尼亞第一位公開出櫃的政壇候選人。大衛希望在這場競選中不再否定真實的自己。但是我們非常擔憂他的安全，因為他收到許多死亡威脅。（影片）大衛庫利亞：當時，我真的非常害怕，因為他們確實的想要我的性命。而且，對喔，那些在謀劃這一切的人認為自己正在履行宗教義務。Chang：大衛並不為自己的身份感到羞恥，即使面對恐嚇的時候，他依舊保持真我。Dazols：在這一光譜的正對面是阿根廷。阿根廷有 92% 的人信仰天主教。但是阿根廷保護 LGBT 的法律甚至比美國還要開明。在2010年，阿根廷成為拉丁美洲第一個而全球第十個接受婚姻平等（即同性婚姻）的國家。在那裡，我們遇見馬麗亞瑞希。瑪麗亞是那次運動的幕後推手。瑪麗亞瑞希（西班牙語）：我總說，其實，婚姻平等所惠及到的不僅是那些因此可以走入婚姻殿堂的伴侶，同樣惠及到那些或許一輩子不會結婚的人，使他們獲得來自同事、家人和鄰居的理解，而這種理解源自於國家對平權信息的傳播。我為阿根廷感到驕傲，因為今日的阿根廷是平等的楷模。希望不久將來，全世界都能擁有同樣的權益。Chang：當我們探訪我的祖籍時，我希望能向父母展示我們在這裡所找尋到的。因為在這裡我們找到了：（影片）一，二，三。歡迎同志們來到上海！（笑聲）一個由中國年輕人所組成的 LGBT 社團。是的，他們也曾奮鬥過，但是他們已經成功了。在上海，我跟當地的女同組織進行了一次會談，用我不怎麼標準的國語向他們講述我們的故事。在台北，我們每次登上捷運，都能看到另一對手牽著手的女同，而且我們了解到亞洲最值得 LGBT 者驕傲的活動就發生在我的祖父母居所的幾條街外，但願我的父母能知曉。Dazols：到此我們這段「不怎麼直」的環球之旅畫上句號，（笑聲）我們遊歷了五萬英里，拍攝了 120 小時的影片，穿行 15 個國家，採訪過 50 位超人同志。這說明，要找到他們並沒有多難。Chang：是的，依然有無數的悲劇發生在通向平權的坎坷之路上。而且我們不該忘記依然有 75 個國家將同性戀定罪。但是同樣也有許多充滿希望和勇氣的故事，散落在這個世界的每個角落。這段旅途最終告訴我們，平等不是西方人的發明。Dazols：平權運動的其中一項關鍵要素是動力，這種動力來自於越來越多的人擁抱真實的自我，並運用他們所有的契機去改變他們的世界，這種動力來自越來越多的國家從其他國家中找到楷模。當尼泊爾保護 LGBT 不受歧視時，印度開始追趕。當阿根廷擁抱婚姻平等時，烏拉圭與巴西緊隨其後。當愛爾蘭對平等放行時，（掌聲）世界為之停駐。當美國最高法院向世界發表聲明時，我們都該為之驕傲。（掌聲）Chang：當我檢視拍下的影片，我們覺得正在看一個關於愛情的故事。雖然未曾成為一個我所期望的愛情故事，但它比我設想的更加充滿自由、冒險與愛情。一年後當我結束旅行回到家中，加利福尼亞迎來了婚姻平等。最後，我們堅信，愛情將會戰勝一切。（影片）我以加利福尼亞州以及全能上帝所賦予我的權利，現在宣佈你們為此生眷侶。你們可以接吻了。（掌聲）
