Talk	en	zh-tw
jeremy_kasdin_the_flower_shaped_starshade_that_might_help_us_detect_earth_like_planets	The universe is teeming with planets. I want us, in the next decade, to build a space telescope that'll be able to image an Earth about another star and figure out whether it can harbor life. My colleagues at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Princeton and I are working on technology that will be able to do just that in the coming years. Astronomers now believe that every star in the galaxy has a planet, and they speculate that up to one fifth of them have an Earth-like planet that might be able to harbor life, but we haven't seen any of them. We've only detected them indirectly. This is NASA's famous picture of the pale blue dot. It was taken by the Voyager spacecraft in 1990, when they turned it around as it was exiting the solar system to take a picture of the Earth from six billion kilometers away. I want to take that of an Earth-like planet about another star. Why haven't we done that? Why is that hard? Well to see, let's imagine we take the Hubble Space Telescope and we turn it around and we move it out to the orbit of Mars. We'll see something like that, a slightly blurry picture of the Earth, because we're a fairly small telescope out at the orbit of Mars. Now let's move ten times further away. Here we are at the orbit of Uranus. It's gotten smaller, it's got less detail, less resolve. We can still see the little moon, but let's go ten times further away again. Here we are at the edge of the solar system, out at the Kuiper Belt. Now it's not resolved at all. It's that pale blue dot of Carl Sagan's. But let's move yet again ten times further away. Here we are out at the Oort Cloud, outside the solar system, and we're starting to see the sun move into the field of view and get into where the planet is. One more time, ten times further away. Now we're at Alpha Centauri, our nearest neighbor star, and the planet is gone. All we're seeing is the big beaming image of the star that's ten billion times brighter than the planet, which should be in that little red circle. That's what we want to see. That's why it's hard. The light from the star is diffracting. It's scattering inside the telescope, creating that very bright image that washes out the planet. So to see the planet, we have to do something about all of that light. We have to get rid of it. I have a lot of colleagues working on really amazing technologies to do that, but I want to tell you about one today that I think is the coolest, and probably the most likely to get us an Earth in the next decade. It was first suggested by Lyman Spitzer, the father of the space telescope, in 1962, and he took his inspiration from an eclipse. You've all seen that. That's a solar eclipse. The moon has moved in front of the sun. It blocks out most of the light so we can see that dim corona around it. It would be the same thing if I put my thumb up and blocked that spotlight that's getting right in my eye, I can see you in the back row. Well, what's going on? Well the moon is casting a shadow down on the Earth. We put a telescope or a camera in that shadow, we look back at the sun, and most of the light's been removed and we can see that dim, fine structure in the corona. Spitzer's suggestion was we do this in space. We build a big screen, we fly it in space, we put it up in front of the star, we block out most of the light, we fly a space telescope in that shadow that's created, and boom, we get to see planets. Well that would look something like this. So there's that big screen, and there's no planets, because unfortunately it doesn't actually work very well, because the light waves of the light and waves diffracts around that screen the same way it did in the telescope. It's like water bending around a rock in a stream, and all that light just destroys the shadow. It's a terrible shadow. And we can't see planets. But Spitzer actually knew the answer. If we can feather the edges, soften those edges so we can control diffraction, well then we can see a planet, and in the last 10 years or so we've come up with optimal solutions for doing that. It looks something like that. We call that our flower petal starshade. If we make the edges of those petals exactly right, if we control their shape, we can control diffraction, and now we have a great shadow. It's about 10 billion times dimmer than it was before, and we can see the planets beam out just like that. That, of course, has to be bigger than my thumb. That starshade is about the size of half a football field and it has to fly 50,000 kilometers away from the telescope that has to be held right in its shadow, and then we can see those planets. This sounds formidable, but brilliant engineers, colleagues of mine at JPL, came up with a fabulous design for how to do that and it looks like this. It starts wrapped around a hub. It separates from the telescope. The petals unfurl, they open up, the telescope turns around. Then you'll see it flip and fly out that 50,000 kilometers away from the telescope. It's going to move in front of the star just like that, creates a wonderful shadow. Boom, we get planets orbiting about it. (Applause) Thank you. That's not science fiction. We've been working on this for the last five or six years. Last summer, we did a really cool test out in California at Northrop Grumman. So those are four petals. This is a sub-scale star shade. It's about half the size of the one you just saw. You'll see the petals unfurl. Those four petals were built by four undergraduates doing a summer internship at JPL. Now you're seeing it deploy. Those petals have to rotate into place. The base of those petals has to go to the same place every time to within a tenth of a millimeter. We ran this test 16 times, and 16 times it went into the exact same place to a tenth of a millimeter. This has to be done very precisely, but if we can do this, if we can build this technology, if we can get it into space, you might see something like this. That's a picture of one our nearest neighbor stars taken with the Hubble Space Telescope. If we can take a similar space telescope, slightly larger, put it out there, fly an occulter in front of it, what we might see is something like that — that's a family portrait of our solar system — but not ours. We're hoping it'll be someone else's solar system as seen through an occulter, through a starshade like that. You can see Jupiter, you can see Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and right there in the center, next to the residual light is that pale blue dot. That's Earth. We want to see that, see if there's water, oxygen, ozone, the things that might tell us that it could harbor life. I think this is the coolest possible science. That's why I got into doing this, because I think that will change the world. That will change everything when we see that. Thank you. (Applause)	宇宙裡到處都有行星我想要我們在下個十年里建一台太空望遠鏡可以拍攝到繞著另一顆恆星的另一個地球並弄清它是否可以孕育生命我和美國太空總署噴氣推進實驗室的同事在普林斯頓正在研發可以在未來實現這技術天文學家現在相信銀河系裡的每顆恆星都有一個行星並且他們推測其中多達五分之一是像地球一樣的行星也許能夠孕育生命但是我們到現在一個也沒有看見我們只是間接地探測 這是美國太空總署著名的暗淡藍點照片照片由旅行者號探測器拍攝於1990年當它準備離開太陽系的時候轉了個頭從六十億公里遠外拍攝了地球的照片我想要拍張環繞其它恆星的另一個地球的照片 為什麼我們還沒有這麼做？為什麼這麼難？好吧，我們來想像把哈勃太空望遠鏡轉過頭來並移到火星軌道我們會看到類似這樣的東西一張略為模糊的地球照片因為我們是位於火星軌道的一台相當小的望遠鏡現在我們移到十倍遠外我們現在在天王星軌道它變得更小，細節更少，分辨率更低我們仍能看到小小的月亮但是讓我們再遠離十倍現在我們到了太陽系的邊緣在柯伊伯帶現在就無法解析了它是卡爾·薩根的暗淡藍點但是讓我們再遠離十倍我們到了奧爾特雲太陽系外我們開始看到太陽進入了視野取代了地球的位置再一次的，十倍遠外我們現在到了半人馬座阿爾法星我們最近的鄰居恆星現在完全看不見地球我們僅能看到大的發光的恆星比地球亮一百億倍地球應該在那個小紅圈內那是我們想要看到的。這就是為什麼這麼難。恆星發的光會衍射會在望遠鏡裡散射製造很亮的圖像掩蓋了地球 所以為了看到地球我們必須對這些光做點什麼我們必須除掉它我有很多同事正在研發很多可以做到這點的驚人的科技但是今天我想告訴你其中一個我認為是最酷的而且是最可能幫我們在下個十年看到另一個地球 它首先被太空望遠鏡之父萊曼·史匹哲在1962年提出他從日蝕中得到靈感你們都看過日蝕月亮移到太陽前面阻擋了大部分光所以我們能看到太陽外層黯淡的日冕這個效果就如同如果我把大拇指放到眼前擋住那個聚光燈我可以看見後面幾排的人們那麼，這是什麼情況？事實上月亮在地球表面印出了一個影子我們把望遠鏡或者相機放在影子裡我們再去看太陽大部分光線就被擋住了我們可以看見日冕裡暗淡的細節結構史匹哲的建議我們在太空裡這麼做我們建一個巨大的擋板發射到太空我們把它放在恆星前面擋住大部分光線再發射一個天文望遠鏡到製造的影子裡從而，我們可以看見行星這個想法看起來就像這樣這就是那個大螢幕，但是並沒有行星因為很不幸的是那並不能很好的工作因為光波在螢幕周圍衍射和在望遠鏡中一樣就像是溪流中的水繞過石頭所以這些光就把影子破壞了，變成糟糕的影子這樣我們看不見行星 但是史匹哲實際上知道答案如果我們可以羽化邊緣，使邊緣變得柔和我們就可以控制衍射那樣我們就可以看見行星在最近十年我們想出了最好的解決辦法看起來像那樣的東西我們稱之為花瓣形遮星板如果我們把花瓣的邊緣設計得剛剛好如果我們可以控制它們的形狀我們就可以控制衍射這樣我們就可以有一個非常好的影子比以前的要暗約一百億倍我們就可以像這樣看見行星那個，當然要比我的大拇指要大那個遮星板大概和半個足球場差不多大而且它必須飛離望遠鏡五萬公里望遠鏡必須在影子裡放對位置這樣我們就可以看見行星 這聽起來很艱巨但是聰明的工程師 —我在噴氣推進實驗室的同事們想出了極好的設計看起來像這個它先是包裹著中心軸它和望遠鏡分離花瓣張開，打開望遠鏡掉頭接著它就翻轉飛離離開望遠鏡五萬公里它會停在恆星前面就像那樣，製造一個完美的影子我們就得到了環繞的行星（鼓掌）謝謝 這不是科幻我們最近五六年致力於此去年夏天，在加利福尼亞的諾斯洛普·格魯門我們進行了一個有意思的測試這就是四片花瓣這是一個縮小的遮星板大概是剛才你看到的那個的一半大你會看到花瓣展開這四片花瓣是四個大學生在我們實驗室做暑假實習生的時候做的現在你看到的是它的部署這些花瓣必須必須旋轉到位花瓣的底部每次必須到達相同的位置誤差在十分之一毫米以內我們測試了16次16次全部到達了相同位置在十分之一毫米以內這個必須非常精準如果我們可以這麼做如果我們可以實現這個技術如果我們可以把它發射到太空，你將會看到這樣的東西這是離我們最近的恆星由哈勃太空望遠鏡拍攝如果我們可以用一個相似的望遠鏡稍微大一些的放在那裡放飛一個遮光體在它前面，我們可能會看到類似這樣的東西這是我們太陽系的全家福但是我們希望看到的是其他人的太陽系通過遮光體通過這樣的遮星板你可以看見木星，土星天王星，海王星就在中間緊靠著殘餘的光是那個暗淡的藍點。那就是地球。我們想要看見那個，想要看那裡有沒有水氧氣，臭氧層這些可以告訴我們那裡是否可以孕育生命 我認為這是最酷的可行的科學這就是我為什麼做這個的原因因為我認為這將改變世界這將要改變我們看到的一切 謝謝 （鼓掌）
