Talk	en	zh-tw
jessica_ladd_the_reporting_system_that_sexual_assault_survivors_want	"Hannah is excited to be going to college. She couldn't wait to get out of her parents' house, to prove to them that she's an adult, and to prove to her new friends that she belongs. She heads to a campus party where she sees a guy that she has a crush on. Let's call him Mike. The next day, Hannah wakes up with a pounding headache. She can only remember the night in flashes. But what she does remember is throwing up in the hall outside Mike's room and staring at the wall silently while he was inside her, wanting it to stop, then shakily stumbling home. She doesn't feel good about what happened, but she thinks, ""Maybe this is just what sex in college is?"" One in five women and one in 13 men will be sexually assaulted at some point during their college career in the United States. Less than 10 percent will ever report their assault to their school or to the police. And those who do, on average, wait 11 months to make the report. Hannah initially just feels like dealing with what happened on her own. But when she sees Mike taking girls home from parties, she's worried about them. After graduation, Hannah learns that she was one of five women who Mike did the exact same thing to. And this is not an unlikely scenario because 90 percent of sexual assaults are committed by repeat offenders. But with such low reporting rates, it's fairly unlikely that even repeat perpetrators will be reported, much less anything happen if they are. In fact, only six percent of assaults reported to the police end with the assailant spending a single day in prison. Meaning, there's a 99 percent chance that they'll get away with it. This means there's practically no deterrent to assault in the United States. Now, I'm an infectious disease epidemiologist by training. I'm interested in systems and networks and where we can concentrate our resources to do the most good. So this, to me, is a tragic but a solvable problem. So when the issue of campus assault started hitting the news a few years ago, it felt like a unique opportunity to make a change. And so we did. We started by talking to college survivors. And what they wish they'd had in college is pretty simple; they wanted a website, one they could use at the time and place that felt safest to them with clearly written information about their reporting options, with the ability to electronically report their assault, rather than having the first step to go in and talk to someone who may or may not believe them. With the option to create a secure, timestamped document of what happened to them, preserving evidence even if they don't want to report yet. And lastly, and perhaps most critically, with the ability to report their assault only if someone else reported the same assailant. You see, knowing that you weren't the only one changes everything. It changes the way you frame your own experience, it changes the way you think about your perpetrator, it means that if you do come forward, you'll have someone else's back and they'll have yours. We created a website that actually does this and we launched it [...] in August, on two college campuses. And we included a unique matching system where if Mike's first victim had come forward, saved her record, entered into the matching system and named Mike, and Mike's second victim had done the same thing a few months later, they would have matched and the verified contact information of both survivors would have been sent to the authorities at the same time for investigation and follow up. If a system like this had existed for Hannah and her peers, it's more likely that they would have reported, that they would have been believed, and that Mike would have been kicked off campus, gone to jail, or at least gotten the help that he needed. And if we were able to stop repeat offenders like Mike after just their second assault following a match, survivors like Hannah would never even be assaulted in the first place. We could prevent 59 percent of sexual assaults just by stopping repeat perpetrators earlier on. And because we're creating a real deterrent to assault, for perhaps the first time, maybe the Mikes of the world would never even try to assault anyone. The type of system I'm describing, the type of system that survivors want is a type of information escrow, meaning an entity that holds on to information for you and only releases it to a third party when certain pre-agreed upon conditions are met, such as a match. The application that we built is for college campuses. But the same type of system could be used in the military or even the workplace. We don't have to live in a world where 99 percent of rapists get away with it. We can create one where those who do wrong are held accountable, where survivors get the support and justice they deserve, where the authorities get the information they need, and where there's a real deterrent to violating the rights of another human being. Thank you. (Applause)"	漢娜對於即將展開的大學生活感到相當興奮，她迫不及待地想要搬出父母的家，好向他們證明她已經是個大人了，同時也向新朋友證明，她跟她們是一夥的 她前往參加了一個校園派對，在那裡她遇見一個她蠻喜歡的男生姑且稱他麥克吧 隔天，漢娜在劇烈的頭痛中醒來，她只記得前晚的一些片段但她確實記得的是，她在麥克房間外的走廊上嘔吐，在麥克侵犯她時，只能無聲地看著牆面，希望這一切能停止下來最後她踏著顫抖蹣跚的步伐回家她對於所發生的一切感到非常地不舒服，但她想，「也許這就是所謂大學生的性生活吧」 在美國，每五位女性，或每十三位男性中，就有一位可能在大學期間受到性侵害然而，只有不到百分之十的人，會為他們所受到的侵害，向校方或警方通報而那些選擇報案的人，則是平均在案發後十一個月才會通報 漢娜本來打算把這件事埋在心裡，但當她看到麥克又從派對上帶了別的女生回家，她開始擔心那些女生 畢業後，漢娜發現到她是麥克做了同樣事情的五個女生中，其中之一而這絕對不是特殊案例，因為有百分之九十的性侵案都是慣犯所為，但是因為報案率相當低，看起來就算一再犯案也未必會被舉發，舉發也未必會被起訴。 事實上，通報給警方的性侵案中，只有百分之六的加害人最後被關進監獄，也就是說，他們有高達百分之九十九的機會可以逍遙法外換句話說，在美國，完全不能嚇阻侵害的發生 而我身為一名訓練有素的傳染流行病學家，我對於如何透過系統和網路，來讓資源集中進而做最有效率的事感興趣對我來說，這是一個遺憾但可以解決的問題 所以在幾年前，當校園性侵議題開始登上頭條時，我感覺這就像是一個改變的契機而我們也確實把握住了。我們開始跟當時在校園受害者溝通，他們希望之前在大學就有的東西其實非常簡單：他們想要有一個網站，一個能讓他們在自己感覺在安全的時間、地點去使用的網站，包含清楚的書面資訊，說明有哪些通報選項，讓他們能用電子化程序報案，而不是一開始就去面對跟告訴那些可能會，也可能不會相信他的人透過這樣的選項，能創建一份安全且帶有時間戳記，紀錄案發經過的文件，就算他們暫時先不想要報案，也能先保存證據。最後，也可能是最關鍵的一點，這網站能夠在當有另一個人也舉報了同樣加害人時，進行回報當你知道自己並不是唯一受害者時，這改變了一切，你會改變你對這段經歷的看法，會改變你對加害者的想法，也代表著，如果你挺身而出，你會是某個人的後援，而他們也會是你的支柱 我們打造了這樣一個網站，在兩個月前，也就是八月份上架，在兩間大專院校中運作 其中包含一個特殊的配對系統，如果當時麥克的第一位受害者出聲，保存她的紀錄，輸入進配對系統，並把它命名為麥克；當麥克的第二位受害者也這麼做時，幾個月後，資料就會被配對，兩位受害者被審核過的聯絡資訊就會被同時送到授權主管單位，進行後續的調查 如果當時漢娜和她朋友擁有這樣的系統，她們就很有可能通報，而且她們也會被相信，那麼麥克也就會被踢出校園，也許進監獄，或是至少受到他需要的輔導協助如果我們能阻止像麥克這樣的慣犯，也許能在他犯的第二起案件就配對成功，那麼像漢娜這樣的受害者可能就永遠不會被強暴。我們可以避免百分之五十九的性侵害案件，藉由及時阻止慣犯因為我們正在打造了一個能確實嚇阻侵害的手段，或甚至是有史以來的第一次，也許從此以後世上的「麥克們」都不敢去侵犯別人 我所描述的系統類型，受害者想要的系統類型，是一種資訊的信託。意即有個獨立的單位能幫你保存資訊，而且只有在事先同意設定的條件符合下，才會提供給第三方，比如說配對成功我們打造的這款應用是為大專院校設計但同樣類型的系統也可以應用在軍方，或甚至是職場上 我們不必活在一個有百分之九十九的強暴犯逍遙法外的世界，我們能創造一個犯罪者必須承擔負責、受害者能夠得到應有援助和正義、授權主管機關能取得所需資訊、以及能夠有效嚇阻，任何人的權利被侵害的世界 謝謝。 (掌聲)
