Talk	en	zh-tw
jia_jiang_what_i_learned_from_100_days_of_rejection	"When I was six years old, I received my gifts. My first grade teacher had this brilliant idea. She wanted us to experience receiving gifts but also learning the virtue of complimenting each other. So she had all of us come to the front of the classroom, and she bought all of us gifts and stacked them in the corner. And she said, ""Why don't we just stand here and compliment each other? If you hear your name called, go and pick up your gift and sit down."" What a wonderful idea, right? What could go wrong? (Laughter) Well, there were 40 of us to start with, and every time I heard someone's name called, I would give out the heartiest cheer. And then there were 20 people left, and 10 people left, and five left ... and three left. And I was one of them. And the compliments stopped. Well, at that moment, I was crying. And the teacher was freaking out. She was like, ""Hey, would anyone say anything nice about these people?"" (Laughter) ""No one? OK, why don't you go get your gift and sit down. So behave next year — someone might say something nice about you."" (Laughter) Well, as I'm describing this you, you probably know I remember this really well. (Laughter) But I don't know who felt worse that day. Was it me or the teacher? She must have realized that she turned a team-building event into a public roast for three six-year-olds. And without the humor. You know, when you see people get roasted on TV, it was funny. There was nothing funny about that day. So that was one version of me, and I would die to avoid being in that situation again — to get rejected in public again. That's one version. Then fast-forward eight years. Bill Gates came to my hometown — Beijing, China — to speak, and I saw his message. I fell in love with that guy. I thought, wow, I know what I want to do now. That night I wrote a letter to my family telling them: ""By age 25, I will build the biggest company in the world, and that company will buy Microsoft."" (Laughter) I totally embraced this idea of conquering the world — domination, right? And I didn't make this up, I did write that letter. And here it is — (Laughter) You don't have to read this through — (Laughter) This is also bad handwriting, but I did highlight some key words. You get the idea. (Laughter) So ... that was another version of me: one who will conquer the world. Well, then two years later, I was presented with the opportunity to come to the United States. I jumped on it, because that was where Bill Gates lived, right? (Laughter) I thought that was the start of my entrepreneur journey. Then, fast-forward another 14 years. I was 30. Nope, I didn't build that company. I didn't even start. I was actually a marketing manager for a Fortune 500 company. And I felt I was stuck; I was stagnant. Why is that? Where is that 14-year-old who wrote that letter? It's not because he didn't try. It's because every time I had a new idea, every time I wanted to try something new, even at work — I wanted to make a proposal, I wanted to speak up in front of people in a group — I felt there was this constant battle between the 14-year-old and the six-year-old. One wanted to conquer the world — make a difference — another was afraid of rejection. And every time that six-year-old won. And this fear even persisted after I started my own company. I mean, I started my own company when I was 30 — if you want to be Bill Gates, you've got to start sooner or later, right? When I was an entrepreneur, I was presented with an investment opportunity, and then I was turned down. And that rejection hurt me. It hurt me so bad that I wanted to quit right there. But then I thought, hey, would Bill Gates quit after a simple investment rejection? Would any successful entrepreneur quit like that? No way. And this is where it clicked for me. OK, I can build a better company. I can build a better team or better product, but one thing for sure: I've got to be a better leader. I've got to be a better person. I cannot let that six-year-old keep dictating my life anymore. I have to put him back in his place. So this is where I went online and looked for help. Google was my friend. (Laughter) I searched, ""How do I overcome the fear of rejection?"" I came up with a bunch of psychology articles about where the fear and pain are coming from. Then I came up with a bunch of ""rah-rah"" inspirational articles about ""Don't take it personally, just overcome it."" Who doesn't know that? (Laughter) But why was I still so scared? Then I found this website by luck. It's called rejectiontherapy.com. (Laughter) ""Rejection Therapy"" was this game invented by this Canadian entrepreneur. His name is Jason Comely. And basically the idea is for 30 days you go out and look for rejection, and every day get rejected at something, and then by the end, you desensitize yourself from the pain. And I loved that idea. (Laughter) I said, ""You know what? I'm going to do this. And I'll feel myself getting rejected 100 days."" And I came up with my own rejection ideas, and I made a video blog out of it. And so here's what I did. This is what the blog looked like. Day One ... (Laughter) Borrow 100 dollars from a stranger. So this is where I went to where I was working. I came downstairs and I saw this big guy sitting behind a desk. He looked like a security guard. So I just approached him. And I was just walking and that was the longest walk of my life — hair on the back of my neck standing up, I was sweating and my heart was pounding. And I got there and said, ""Hey, sir, can I borrow 100 dollars from you?"" (Laughter) And he looked up, he's like, ""No."" ""Why?"" And I just said, ""No? I'm sorry."" Then I turned around, and I just ran. (Laughter) I felt so embarrassed. But because I filmed myself — so that night I was watching myself getting rejected, I just saw how scared I was. I looked like this kid in ""The Sixth Sense."" I saw dead people. (Laughter) But then I saw this guy. You know, he wasn't that menacing. He was a chubby, loveable guy, and he even asked me, ""Why?"" In fact, he invited me to explain myself. And I could've said many things. I could've explained, I could've negotiated. I didn't do any of that. All I did was run. I felt, wow, this is like a microcosm of my life. Every time I felt the slightest rejection, I would just run as fast as I could. And you know what? The next day, no matter what happens, I'm not going to run. I'll stay engaged. Day Two: Request a ""burger refill."" (Laughter) It's when I went to a burger joint, I finished lunch, and I went to the cashier and said, ""Hi, can I get a burger refill?"" (Laughter) He was all confused, like, ""What's a burger refill?"" (Laughter) I said, ""Well, it's just like a drink refill but with a burger."" And he said, ""Sorry, we don't do burger refill, man."" (Laughter) So this is where rejection happened and I could have run, but I stayed. I said, ""Well, I love your burgers, I love your joint, and if you guys do a burger refill, I will love you guys more."" (Laughter) And he said, ""Well, OK, I'll tell my manager about it, and maybe we'll do it, but sorry, we can't do this today."" Then I left. And by the way, I don't think they've ever done burger refill. (Laughter) I think they're still there. But the life and death feeling I was feeling the first time was no longer there, just because I stayed engaged — because I didn't run. I said, ""Wow, great, I'm already learning things. Great."" And then Day Three: Getting Olympic Doughnuts. This is where my life was turned upside down. I went to a Krispy Kreme. It's a doughnut shop in mainly the Southeastern part of the United States. I'm sure they have some here, too. And I went in, I said, ""Can you make me doughnuts that look like Olympic symbols? Basically, you interlink five doughnuts together ... "" I mean there's no way they could say yes, right? The doughnut maker took me so seriously. (Laughter) So she put out paper, started jotting down the colors and the rings, and is like, ""How can I make this?"" And then 15 minutes later, she came out with a box that looked like Olympic rings. And I was so touched. I just couldn't believe it. And that video got over five million views on Youtube. The world couldn't believe that either. (Laughter) You know, because of that I was in newspapers, in talk shows, in everything. And I became famous. A lot of people started writing emails to me and saying, ""What you're doing is awesome."" But you know, fame and notoriety did not do anything to me. What I really wanted to do was learn, and to change myself. So I turned the rest of my 100 days of rejection into this playground — into this research project. I wanted to see what I could learn. And then I learned a lot of things. I discovered so many secrets. For example, I found if I just don't run, if I got rejected, I could actually turn a ""no"" into a ""yes,"" and the magic word is, ""why."" So one day I went to a stranger's house, I had this flower in my hand, knocked on the door and said, ""Hey, can I plant this flower in your backyard?"" (Laughter) And he said, ""No."" But before he could leave I said, ""Hey, can I know why?"" And he said, ""Well, I have this dog that would dig up anything I put in the backyard. I don't want to waste your flower. If you want to do this, go across the street and talk to Connie. She loves flowers."" So that's what I did. I went across and knocked on Connie's door. And she was so happy to see me. (Laughter) And then half an hour later, there was this flower in Connie's backyard. I'm sure it looks better now. (Laughter) But had I left after the initial rejection, I would've thought, well, it's because the guy didn't trust me, it's because I was crazy, because I didn't dress up well, I didn't look good. It was none of those. It was because what I offered did not fit what he wanted. And he trusted me enough to offer me a referral, using a sales term. I converted a referral. Then one day — and I also learned that I can actually say certain things and maximize my chance to get a yes. So for example, one day I went to a Starbucks, and asked the manager, ""Hey, can I be a Starbucks greeter?"" He was like, ""What's a Starbucks greeter?"" I said, ""Do you know those Walmart greeters? You know, those people who say 'hi' to you before you walk in the store, and make sure you don't steal stuff, basically? I want to give a Walmart experience to Starbucks customers."" (Laughter) Well, I'm not sure that's a good thing, actually — Actually, I'm pretty sure it's a bad thing. And he was like, ""Oh"" — yeah, this is how he looked, his name is Eric — and he was like, ""I'm not sure."" This is how he was hearing me. ""Not sure."" Then I ask him, ""Is that weird?"" He's like, ""Yeah, it's really weird, man."" But as soon as he said that, his whole demeanor changed. It's as if he's putting all the doubt on the floor. And he said, ""Yeah, you can do this, just don't get too weird."" (Laughter) So for the next hour I was the Starbucks greeter. I said ""hi"" to every customer that walked in, and gave them holiday cheers. By the way, I don't know what your career trajectory is, don't be a greeter. (Laughter) It was really boring. But then I found I could do this because I mentioned, ""Is that weird?"" I mentioned the doubt that he was having. And because I mentioned, ""Is that weird?"", that means I wasn't weird. That means I was actually thinking just like him, seeing this as a weird thing. And again, and again, I learned that if I mention some doubt people might have before I ask the question, I gained their trust. People were more likely to say yes to me. And then I learned I could fulfill my life dream ... by asking. You know, I came from four generations of teachers, and my grandma has always told me, ""Hey Jia, you can do anything you want, but it'd be great if you became a teacher."" (Laughter) But I wanted to be an entrepreneur, so I didn't. But it has always been my dream to actually teach something. So I said, ""What if I just ask and teach a college class?"" I lived in Austin at the time, so I went to University of Texas at Austin and knocked on professors' doors and said, ""Can I teach your class?"" I didn't get anywhere the first couple of times. But because I didn't run — I kept doing it — and on the third try the professor was very impressed. He was like, ""No one has done this before."" And I came in prepared with powerpoints and my lesson. He said, ""Wow, I can use this. Why don't you come back in two months? I'll fit you in my curriculum."" And two months later I was teaching a class. This is me — you probably can't see, this is a bad picture. You know, sometimes you get rejected by lighting, you know? (Laughter) But wow — when I finished teaching that class, I walked out crying, because I thought I could fulfill my life dream just by simply asking. I used to think I have to accomplish all these things — have to be a great entrepreneur, or get a PhD to teach — but no, I just asked, and I could teach. And in that picture, which you can't see, I quoted Martin Luther King, Jr. Why? Because in my research I found that people who really change the world, who change the way we live and the way we think, are the people who were met with initial and often violent rejections. People like Martin Luther King, Jr., like Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela, or even Jesus Christ. These people did not let rejection define them. They let their own reaction after rejection define themselves. And they embraced rejection. And we don't have to be those people to learn about rejection, and in my case, rejection was my curse, was my boogeyman. It has bothered me my whole life because I was running away from it. Then I started embracing it. I turned that into the biggest gift in my life. I started teaching people how to turn rejections into opportunities. I use my blog, I use my talk, I use the book I just published, and I'm even building technology to help people overcome their fear of rejection. When you get rejected in life, when you are facing the next obstacle or next failure, consider the possibilities. Don't run. If you just embrace them, they might become your gifts as well. Thank you. (Applause)"	當我六歲的時候，我收到了禮物。我一年級的老師有一個很棒的主意。她想讓我們感受接受禮物同時學習讚美別人的美德。所以她讓我們所有人走到教室前面，她給我們每個人帶了禮物，堆在牆角。然後她說：「讓我們站在這裡並讚美對方吧。如果你聽到你的名字，走上前，領取你的禮物並坐下。」多棒的主意，對嗎？能出什麼錯？ （笑聲） 開始，有 40 個孩子，每一次我聽到別人被叫到名字，我都會送出真摯的讚美。然後剩下 20 個人，10 個人，5 個人……最後剩下了 3 個人。而我是其中一個。讚美停止了。在那個時候，我在哭泣。老師也不知所措。她說：「嘿，有任何人願意說一些這些同學的好話嗎？」 （笑聲） 「沒人？好吧。那你們去領取禮物並坐下吧。所以明年好好表現，可能會有人說一些你的好話。」 （笑聲） 我向你描述這件事，你可能會知道我對這件事記憶猶新。 （笑聲） 但是我不知道誰感覺更糟糕，我還是我的老師？她一定意識到了，她把一個團結合作的活動，變成了三個 6 歲孩子的尷尬時刻。撇開幽默不談，你知道當你在電視上看到別人尷尬的時候，那很好笑。那天一點都不好笑。 所以那是一個版本的我，我會以死避免那種情況的發生，在眾目睽睽中被拒絕。這是一個版本。快進 8 年。比爾蓋茨來到我的家鄉──中國北京──做演講。我看到了他的演講，我對他深深的著迷。我認為，哇，我現在我知道我想做什麼了。那個晚上我給我的家人寫了一封信，告訴他們：「在 25 歲之前，我會建造世界上最大的公司，而且那個公司會買下微軟。」 （笑聲） 我完全接受了這個征服世界的主意，統治，對吧。我不是憑空捏造，我真的寫了那封信。就是這個—— （笑聲） 你沒必要看完， （笑聲） 字跡很差，但是我強調了一些重點詞。你會明白。 （笑聲） 所以……這是另外一個版本的我，一個想要征服世界的我。 好吧，兩年後，我發現了一個來美國的機會，我接受了它，因為這是比爾蓋茨生活的地方，對嗎？ （笑聲） 我認為這是我企業家生涯的開始。然後，快進 14 年，我三十歲。沒，我沒有建立那家公司。我甚至沒有開始。我事實上是一個500 強企業的營銷經理。我感覺我卡住了，我停滯不前。為什麼？那個寫了那封信的14 歲的孩子去哪了？不是因為他沒有嘗試。是因為每次我有了新的主意，每次我想嘗試一些新的東西，甚至在工作，我想提出一個提案，我想在一群人面前說出來，我感覺在 6 歲的我和 14 歲的我之間有著持續的戰鬥。一個想征服世界，做出一些改變，另一個害怕拒絕。然而每次那個 6 歲的我都贏了。 這個恐懼甚至持續到我開始自己的公司。我的意思是，我在30 歲的時候成立我的公司，如果你想當比爾蓋茨，你遲早要開始的，對嗎？當我是一個企業家的時候，我遇見了一個投資機會，然後我被拒絕，那次拒絕傷害了我，嚴重到我想當場放棄。但是我想，嘿，比爾蓋茨會在一次簡單的拒絕投資後放棄嗎？有任何成功企業家會像那樣放棄嗎？沒有。這使我茅塞頓開。好，我能夠創立一個更好的公司。我能夠建立一個更好的團隊或產品，但是有一件事情是確定的：我一定要成為一個更好的領導者。我一定要成為一個更好的人。我不能讓那個 6 歲的我繼續統治我的生活。我要把他壓抑住。 所以我上網尋求幫助。谷歌是我的朋友。 （笑聲） 我搜索：「怎麼克服被拒絕的恐懼？」跳出了很多心理學文章關於恐懼和痛苦的來源。然後是一些鼓勵和啟發人心的文章，都在說「不要太在意，克服就好。」誰不知道這個？ （笑聲） 但是為什麼我還是很害怕？然後我意外找到了這個網站，叫做拒絕治療法.com（rejectiontherapy.com） （笑聲） 「拒絕治療法」是一個加拿大企業家發明的遊戲，他的名字是杰森．康莉。主旨就是 30 天，你出門尋找拒絕，每天被某些事情拒絕，最後，你會緩解痛苦。我很喜歡這個主意。 （笑聲） 我說：「你知道嗎？我要像這樣做。而且我會錄下被拒絕 100天。」我想出了自己被拒絕的主意，還為此創建了視頻博客。 所以這是我做的，那個博客看起來是這樣的。第一天…… （笑聲） 向一個陌生人借 100 美金。所以我去了我工作的地方，我走下樓，我看見一個強壯的人坐在一張桌子後面。他看起來像是一個保安。所以我接近他，我走向他，那好像是我人生中最漫長一段路，我脖子後的頭髮豎起來了，我流著汗，心怦怦地跳。我走到那裡，說：「先生你好，我能向你借 100 美金嗎？」 （笑聲） 他抬起頭，說：「不行。」「為什麼？」 我說：「不行？不好意思。」然後我轉身跑著離開了。 （笑聲） 我感覺非常尷尬。但是因為我錄下了這個經歷，所以那個晚上，我觀看了自己被拒絕，我看到了我自己有多害怕。我像是「靈異第六感」裡的孩子。我看見了死人。 （笑聲） 但是我看到了那個男人，他並不咄咄逼人。他是一個胖乎乎的可愛的人，他甚至問我為什麼，事實上，他邀請我解釋，我其實可以說很多事情，我可以解釋，我可以溝通。但是我什麼都沒做，我只是跑走了。我感覺，哇，這就像是我人生的縮影，每次我感覺到輕微的拒絕，我就會盡力逃跑。你知道嗎？第二天，不管發生了什麼，我都不會逃跑。我會留下來。 第二天：請求一個「漢堡續杯。」 （笑聲） 當我去一家漢堡店，我吃完午餐，走向收銀員，說：「你好，我能來一個漢堡續杯嗎？」 （笑聲） 他非常疑惑：「什麼是漢堡續杯？」 （笑聲） 我說：「就像一個飲料續杯，只是換成漢堡。」他說：「不好意思，我們不做漢堡續杯。」 （笑聲） 所以這就是當被拒絕，我可以逃跑，但是我留了下來。我說：「我喜歡你們的漢堡，我喜歡你們的店，如果你們能做漢堡續杯，我會更喜歡你們的。」 （笑聲） 然後他說：「好，我會向我的經理匯報的，可能我們會做，但是不好意思，今天我們沒有辦法。」然後我走了。順便說一句，我不認為他們會有漢堡續杯。 （笑聲） 我覺得他們還是老樣子，但是我在那裡經歷的生死攸關的感覺，已經不在那兒了，只因為我留了下來，因為我沒有逃跑。我說：「哇，好棒，我已經開始吸取教訓了，好棒。」 然後第三天：索要奧林匹克甜甜圈。我的人生就在這裡開始被顛覆。我去了「Krispy Kreme」，一個甜甜圈店鋪，主要在美國的東南部。我確定這裡也有一些。我走進店裡，說：「你能為我做一些長得像奧林匹克標誌的甜甜圈嗎？基本上就是五個甜甜圈……」我覺得他們一定不會說好，甜甜圈製作者把我當真了。 （笑聲） 所以她展開一張紙，開始記下顏色和五環，思考該怎麼制作，然後 15 分鐘後，她帶著一個像奧林匹克五環的盒子走出來，我非常感動，我覺得難以置信。那個視頻在 Youtube 上獲得了超過 5 百萬的瀏覽量。整個世界也無法相信。 （笑聲） 你知道，因為這個，我上了報紙，脫口秀，各種媒體。我出名了。很多人開始向我寫郵件並說：「你做的事情太棒了。」但是知名度並不是我想要的。我真正想要的是學習和改變自己。所以我把我剩下的被拒絕 100天變成了遊樂場，變成了研究項目。我想知道我能學到什麼， 我學到了很多事情，我發現了很多秘密。比如，我發現如果我沒有逃跑，如果我被拒絕，我可以把「不行」變成「行，」而且那個神奇的詞語就是「為什麼。」 所以有一天，我去一個陌生人家，捧著一束花，敲他的門，並說：「嘿，我能把這束花種在你的後院嗎？」 （笑聲） 然後他說：「不行。」但是在他離開之前，我說：「嘿，我能知道為什麼嗎？」他說：「我有一隻狗，會拔起我種在後院的所有東西。我不希望浪費你的鮮花。如果你想做這件事，到街對面，詢問康妮，她很愛花。」我照著做了。我走過街，敲康妮家的門。她看到我非常開心。 （笑聲） 然後一個半小時後……這就是在康妮後院的那束花。我保證它現在看起來更好。 （笑聲） 但是如果我在初次拒絕後離開，我可能會想是因為那個人不信任我，因為我瘋了，因為我的穿著，因為我看起來不好。都不是。是因為我提出的不符合他所想的。他足夠信任我給我推薦，用一個銷售術語，轉介。 然後又一天，我學到我可以說一些事情，最大化被接受的可能。比如，有一天我去一家星巴克問經理「我能成為一個星巴克迎賓員嗎？」他問：「什麼是星巴克迎賓員？」我說：「你知道那些沃爾瑪迎賓員嗎？就是那些在你走進店鋪前對你打招呼，保證你不偷東西的人？我想給星巴克顧客一個沃爾瑪體驗。」 （笑聲） 我確定那不是一個好事，我蠻確定那是一個壞事。然後他說：「哦，」他看起來是這樣的，他的名字是艾瑞卡，他說：「我不確定。」他是這樣說的：「我不確定。」然後我問他，「這很奇怪嗎？」他說：「沒錯，這很奇怪。」但是在他說完之後，他的整個舉止發生了改變。像是他提出了所有的疑問。他說：「好，你可以做這個，就是不要做的太奇怪。」 （笑聲） 所以下一個小時內，我是星巴克迎賓員。我對每一個進門的顧客說「你好，」祝他們節日快樂。順便說一下，我不知道你做過什麼職業，不要當一個迎賓員。 （笑聲） 這真的很無聊。但是，然後我發現能夠做這件事，是因為我提到了「這很奇怪嗎？」我提出了他的疑問。因為我提到了「這很奇怪嗎？」，這意味著我不奇怪，這意味著我像他一樣思考，把這個當成一件奇怪的事情，一次，又一次，我學到了如果我提到別人可能會有的疑問，在我詢問之前，我就得到了別人的信任。人們會更有可能對我說「行」， 然後我學到了我可以完成我的人生夢想，通過詢問。我來自一個四代是老師的家庭，我的奶奶一直跟我說：「甲，你可以做你想做的，但是你能成為一名老師是最好的。」 （笑聲） 但是我想成為一個企業家，所以我沒當老師。但是教授一些東西一直是我的夢想。所以我想：「如果我直接請求教一節大學課程呢？」那個時候我住在奧斯汀，所以我去了德州大學奧斯汀分校敲教授的門，並問「我可以教你的課嗎？」開始幾次我什麼也沒得到，但是因為我沒有逃跑，我堅持下去，第三次，教授對我印象深刻。他說：「沒人做過這件事。」我帶著準備好幻燈片和課程給他看。他說：「哇，我真的可以用這些東西。你能在兩個月後回來，我把你加到我的課表裡。」兩個月後，我教了一堂課。 這是我，你可能看不到，這張照片不清晰。有的時候你會被光線拒絕，對嗎？ （笑聲） 但是，哇，當我上完那堂課，我哭著走出來，因為我覺得，我能夠用簡單的詢問完成我的人生夢想。我原本認為我一定要完成這些事情——成為一個傑出的企業家，得到一個博士學位來教書，但是，我只需要詢問，我就能教書。 在那張相片裡，你看不到，我援引馬丁路德金恩，為什麼？因為我的研究發現改變世界的人，改變我們生活和思考的方式的人，都是那些受到長期強烈拒絕的人。像馬丁路德金恩的人，像聖雄甘地，尼爾森曼德拉，甚至耶穌。這些人沒有讓拒絕定義他們。他們讓他們被拒絕後的反應定義他們。他們擁抱拒絕。 我們不需要成為那些人來學習拒絕，我的情況下，拒絕是我的詛咒，是我的夢魔。因為我從中逃跑，它困擾我的整個人生。然後我開始擁抱它。我把它轉變為人生中最大的禮物。我開始教導別人如何把拒絕變成機會。我用我的博客，我的演講，我用我剛剛出版的書，我還建造幫助人們克服對拒絕的恐懼的科技。 當你在人生中被拒絕，當你面對下一個障礙或下一個失敗，考慮那個可能性。不要逃跑。如果你擁抱它們，它們也可能成為你的禮物。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
