Talk	en	zh-tw
jill_shargaa_please_please_people_let_s_put_the_awe_back_in_awesome	"How many times have you used the word ""awesome"" today? Once? Twice? Seventeen times? Do you remember what you were describing when you used the word? No, I didn't think so, because it's come down to this, people: You're using the word incorrectly, and tonight I hope to show you how to put the ""awe"" back in ""awesome."" Recently, I was dining at an outdoor cafe, and the server came up to our table, and asked us if we had dined there before, and I said, ""Yes, yes, we have."" And she said, ""Awesome."" And I thought, ""Really? Awesome or just merely good that we decided to visit your restaurant again?"" The other day, one of my coworkers asked me if I could save that file as a PDF, and I said, ""Well, of course,"" and he said, ""Awesome."" Seriously, can saving anything as a PDF be awesome? Sadly, the frequent overuse of the word ""awesome"" has now replaced words like ""great"" and ""thank you."" So Webster's dictionary defines the word ""awesome"" as fear mingled with admiration or reverence, a feeling produced by something majestic. Now, with that in mind, was your Quiznos sandwich awesome? How about that parking space? Was that awesome? Or that game the other day? Was that awesome? The answer is no, no and no. A sandwich can be delicious, that parking space can be nearby, and that game can be a blowout, but not everything can be awesome. (Laughter) So when you use the word ""awesome"" to describe the most mundane of things, you're taking away the very power of the word. This author says, ""Snowy days or finding money in your pants is awesome."" (Laughter) Um, no, it is not, and we need to raise the bar for this poor schmuck. (Laughter) So in other words, if you have everything, you value nothing. It's a lot like drinking from a firehose like this jackass right here. There's no dynamic, there's no highs or lows, if everything is awesome. Ladies and gentlemen, here are 10 things that are truly awesome. Imagine, if you will, having to schlep everything on your back. Wouldn't this be easier for me if I could roll this home? Yes, so I think I'll invent the wheel. The wheel, ladies and gentlemen. Is the wheel awesome? Say it with me. Yes, the wheel is awesome! The Great Pyramids were the tallest man-made structure in the world for 4,000 years. Pharaoh had his slaves move millions of blocks just to this site to erect a big freaking headstone. Were the Great Pyramids awesome? Yes, the pyramids were awesome. The Grand Canyon. Come on. It's almost 80 million years old. Is the Grand Canyon awesome? Yes, the Grand Canyon is. Louis Daguerre invented photography in 1829, and earlier today, when you whipped out your smartphone and you took a shot of your awesome sandwich, and you know who you are — (Laughter) — wasn't that easier than exposing the image to copper plates coated with iodized silver? I mean, come on. Is photography awesome? Yes, photography is awesome. D-Day, June 6, 1944, the Allied invasion of Normandy, the largest amphibious invasion in world history. Was D-Day awesome? Yes, it was awesome. Did you eat food today? Did you eat? Then you can thank the honeybee, that's the one, because if crops aren't pollinated, we can't grow food, and then we're all going to die. It's just like that. But it's not like a flower can just get up and have sex with another flower, although that would be awesome. (Laughter) Bees are awesome. Are you kidding me? Landing on the moon! Come on! Apollo 11. Are you kidding me? Sixty-six years after the Wright Brothers took off from Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, Neil Armstrong was 240,000 miles away. That's like from here to the moon. (Laughter) That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for awesome! You're damn right, it was. Woodstock, 1969: Rolling Stone Magazine said this changed the history of rock and roll. Tickets were only 24 dollars back then. You can't even buy a freaking t-shirt for that now. Jimi Hendrix's version of ""The Star-Spangled Banner"" was the most iconic. Was Woodstock awesome? Yes, it was awesome. Sharks! They're at the top of the food chain. Sharks have multiple rows of teeth that grow in their jaw and they move forward like a conveyor belt. Some sharks can lose 30,000 teeth in their lifetime. Does awesome inspire fear? Oh, hell yeah, sharks are awesome! The Internet was born in 1982 and it instantly took over global communication, and later tonight, when all these PowerPoints are uplifted to the Internet so that a guy in Siberia can get drunk and watch this crap, the Internet is awesome. And finally, finally some of you can't wait to come up and tell me how awesome my PowerPoint was. I will save you the time. It was not awesome, but it was true, and I hope it was entertaining, and out of all the audiences I've ever had, y'all are the most recent. Thank you and good night. (Applause)"	你今天總共說了幾次 “厲害”？一次？兩次？十七次？你還記得當時是在描述甚麼而用了那個詞嗎？不，我不這麼認為。因為說到了這個，結論是各位，你用它的方式是錯誤的。而我今晚希望教你該如何重拾 “厲害” 中，“厲” 的含意 (Awesome)。 最近我去了間露天餐廳，有位服務生來到了我們用餐的桌子，問我們是否來過。我回答，“是，是，我們曾經來過”他回答我，“厲害”。我心想 “真的嗎？厲害？還是只是很好我們決定再次光顧你的餐廳？” 另一天，一個同事問我，我能不能把那個資料存為PDF檔。我說 “那當然了”，他也說 “厲害”。說真的，存檔這樣的事真的值得說 “厲害” 嗎？ 可惜，由於我們經常濫用 “厲害”它的定義已經成為了“真好” 或是 “謝謝” 等詞。韋氏字典將 “厲害” (awesome) 解釋為恐懼夾雜著愛慕或敬畏的感覺，一種宏偉事物所產生出來的感覺。現在，想想看，你的 Quiznos 三明治厲害嗎？那個停車位呢？它厲害嗎？還是前幾天的那場球賽？它厲害嗎？答案是不是，不是，和不是。一份三明治可以很美味，停車位能是很靠近，球賽可以是很激烈，但不是所有的事都很厲害。（笑聲） 所以當你使用“厲害”去描述生活中的瑣事你便是在帶走這詞的力量。這位作家說 “下雪天或是在你的褲袋裡找到錢是厲害。”（笑聲）呃，不，並不是，我們要幫這個蠢材提高標準（笑聲）換句話說，當你擁有所有， 你也就甚麼都不珍惜。這個道理就像是喝消防帶的水，跟這個白痴一樣。沒有激情，亦沒有高低起伏之分，如果所有的事情都很厲害。 女士先生們，這裡有十樣真正厲害的事情。 試著想像自己必須將所有的東西背在身上，如果我能將這些東西滾回家不是更加容易嗎？是阿，所以我要發明輪子，輪子啊，各位女士先生。輪子是否厲害呢？跟我一起說是的，輪子真的很厲害！ 胡夫金字塔是世界上最高的人為建築，這個紀錄維持了四千年。法老王命奴隸搬動上百萬顆石頭全為了立起一個巨大基石。這些金字塔厲害嗎？是，這些金字塔非常厲害。 大峽谷。拜託。它已將近八千萬歲了。大峽谷厲害嗎？是的，大峽谷是。 路易·達蓋爾在1892年發明攝影，今天稍早，當你拿出智慧型手機照了你那厲害的三明治時你知道你是誰 —（笑聲）—是否比將照片暴露於鋪著銀的銅板要來的簡單很多？我是說，拜託。攝影厲害嗎？是的，攝影很厲害。 1944年6月6日，諾曼底登陸日盟軍聯合襲擊法國諾曼底迄今為規模最大的戰役。登陸日厲害嗎？是的，它非常厲害。 你今天吃過了嗎？你可以感謝蜜蜂，就是它，要不是牠們傳播花粉，我們也就不能農耕，我們便會全數陣亡。就是這樣，花朵不能自行起來和另一朵花性交，雖然那樣會是很厲害。（笑聲）蜜蜂很厲害。你開玩笑嗎？ 在月球上登陸！拜託！阿波羅十一號。你在開我的玩笑嗎？萊特兄弟在北卡羅萊納州的基蒂·霍克飛行的六十六年後，尼爾·阿姆斯壯已經離地球二十四萬里遠了。這就好似這裡和月球間的距離。（笑聲）一個男人的一小步，是厲害的一大步！沒有錯，就是它。 1969年滾石雜誌說胡士托音樂節改變了搖滾史。當時門票一張才僅僅二十四元。現在你根本連一件T恤也買不到。其中吉米·罕醉克斯所翻唱的《星條旗》最具代表性。胡士托音樂節厲害嗎？是的，它很厲害。 鯊魚！牠們在食物鏈的最頂端。鯊魚有好幾排生長在下顎的牙齒像輸送帶一樣向前推進。有些鯊魚一生能掉三萬顆牙。這樣“厲害”是否就有了“厲”？喔，對極了，鯊魚是很厲害！ 網路始於1982年，當下它改變了全球溝通系統，今天晚間，當這些簡報被上傳到網路時，這樣某個西伯利亞人就能喝醉，看這一堆廢話。網路真的非常厲害。 還有，還有，你們裏面有些人正等不及想跟我說我的簡報是有多麼的厲害。不過免了，因爲這並不厲害，而是真實。而我希望它給你歡樂，在我所擁有的觀衆當中，你們是最近期的，謝謝，晚安。 （掌聲）
