Talk	en	zh-tw
jim_hemerling_5_ways_to_lead_in_an_era_of_constant_change	"Have you ever noticed when you ask someone to talk about a change they're making for the better in their personal lives, they're often really energetic? Whether it's training for a marathon, picking up an old hobby, or learning a new skill, for most people, self-transformation projects occupy a very positive emotional space. Self-transformation is empowering, energizing, even exhilarating. I mean just take a look at some of the titles of self-help books: ""Awaken the Giant Within,"" ""Practicing the Power of Now,"" or here's a great one we can all relate to, ""You are a Badass: How to Stop Doubting Your Greatness and Start Living an Awesome Life."" (Laughter) When it comes to self-transformation, you can't help but get a sense of the excitement. But there's another type of transformation that occupies a very different emotional space. The transformation of organizations. If you're like most people, when you hear the words ""Our organization is going to start a transformation,"" you're thinking, ""Uh-oh."" (Laughter) ""Layoffs."" The blood drains from your face, your mind goes into overdrive, frantically searching for some place to run and hide. Well, you can run, but you really can't hide. Most of us spend the majority of our waking hours involved in organizations. And due to changes in globalization, changes due to advances in technology and other factors, the reality is our organizations are constantly having to adapt. In fact, I call this the era of ""always-on"" transformation. When I shared this idea with my wife Nicola, she said, ""Always-on transformation? That sounds exhausting."" And that may be exactly what you're thinking — and you would be right. Particularly if we continue to approach the transformation of organizations the way we always have been. But because we can't hide, we need to sort out two things. First, why is transformation so exhausting? And second, how do we fix it? First of all, let's acknowledge that change is hard. People naturally resist change, especially when it's imposed on them. But there are things that organizations do that make change even harder and more exhausting for people than it needs to be. First of all, leaders often wait too long to act. As a result, everything is happening in crisis mode. Which, of course, tends to be exhausting. Or, given the urgency, what they'll do is they'll just focus on the short-term results, but that doesn't give any hope for the future. Or they'll just take a superficial, one-off approach, hoping that they can return back to business as usual as soon as the crisis is over. This kind of approach is kind of the way some students approach preparing for standardized tests. In order to get test scores to go up, teachers will end up teaching to the test. Now, that approach can work; test results often do go up. But it fails the fundamental goal of education: to prepare students to succeed over the long term. So given these obstacles, what can we do to transform the way we transform organizations so rather than being exhausting, it's actually empowering and energizing? To do that, we need to focus on five strategic imperatives, all of which have one thing in common: putting people first. The first imperative for putting people first is to inspire through purpose. Most transformations have financial and operational goals. These are important and they can be energizing to leaders, but they tend not to be very motivating to most people in the organization. To motivate more broadly, the transformation needs to connect with a deeper sense of purpose. Take LEGO. The LEGO Group has become an extraordinary global company. Under their very capable leadership, they've actually undergone a series of transformations. While each of these has had a very specific focus, the North Star, linking and guiding all of them, has been Lego's powerful purpose: inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. Expanding globally? It's not about increasing sales, but about giving millions of additional children access to LEGO building bricks. Investment and innovation? It's not about developing new products, but about enabling more children to experience the joy of learning through play. Not surprisingly, that deep sense of purpose tends to be highly motivating to LEGO's people. The second imperative for putting people first is to go all in. Too many transformations are nothing more than head-count cutting exercises; layoffs under the guise of transformation. In the face of relentless competition, it may well be that you will have to take the painful decision to downsize the organization, just as you may have to lose some weight in order to run a marathon. But losing weight alone will not get you across the finish line with a winning time. To win you need to go all in. You need to go all in. Rather than just cutting costs, you need to think about initiatives that will enable you to win in the medium term, initiatives to drive growth, actions that will fundamentally change the way the company operates, and very importantly, investments to develop the leadership and the talent. The third imperative for putting people first is to enable people with the capabilities that they need to succeed during the transformation and beyond. Over the years I've competed in a number of triathlons. You know, frankly, I'm not that good, but I do have one distinct capability; I am remarkably fast at finding my bike. (Laughter) By the time I finish the swim, almost all the bikes are already gone. (Laughter) Real triathletes know that each leg — the swim, the bike, the run — really requires different capabilities, different tools, different skills, different techniques. Likewise when we transform organizations, we need to be sure that we're giving our people the skills and the tools they need along the way. Chronos, a global software company, recognized the need to transfer from building products — software products — to building software as a service. To enable its people to take that transformation, first of all they invested in new tools that would enable their employees to monitor the usage of the features as well as customer satisfaction with the new service. They also invested in skill development, so that their employees would be able to resolve customer service problems on the spot. And very importantly, they also reinforced the collaborative behaviors that would be required to deliver an end-to-end seamless customer experience. Because of these investments, rather than feeling overwhelmed by the transformation, Chronos employees actually felt energized and empowered in their new roles. In the era of ""always-on"" transformation, change is a constant. My fourth imperative therefore is to instill a culture of continuous learning. When Satya Nadella became the CEO of Microsoft in February 2014, he embarked on an ambitious transformation journey to prepare the company to compete in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. This included changes to strategy, the organization and very importantly, the culture. Microsoft's culture at the time was one of silos and internal competition — not exactly conducive to learning. Nadella took this head-on. He rallied his leadership around his vision for a living, learning culture, shifting from a fixed mindset, where your role was to show up as the smartest person in the room, to a growth mindset, where your role was to listen, to learn and to bring out the best in people. Well, early days, Microsoft employees already noticed this shift in the culture — clear evidence of Microsoft putting people first. My fifth and final imperative is specifically for leaders. In a transformation, a leader needs to have a vision, a clear road map with milestones, and then you need to hold people accountable for results. In other words, you need to be directive. But in order to capture the hearts and minds of people, you also need to be inclusive. Inclusive leadership is critical to putting people first. I live in the San Francisco Bay area. And right now, our basketball team is the best in the league. We won the 2015 championship, and we're favored to win again this year. There are many explanations for this. They have some fabulous players, but one of the key reasons is their head coach, Steve Kerr, is an inclusive leader. When Kerr came to the Warriors in 2014, the Warriors were looking for a major transformation. They hadn't won a national championship since 1975. Kerr came in, and he had a clear vision, and he immediately got to work. From the outset, he reached out and engaged the players and the staff. He created an environment of open debate and solicited suggestions. During games he would often ask, ""What are you seeing that I'm missing?"" One the best examples of this came in game four of the 2015 finals. The Warriors were down two games to one when Kerr made the decision to change the starting lineup; a bold move by any measure. The Warriors won the game and went on to win the championship. And it is widely viewed that that move was the pivotal move in their victory. Interestingly, it wasn't actually Kerr's idea. It was the idea of his 28-year-old assistant, Nick U'Ren. Because of Kerr's leadership style, U'Ren felt comfortable bringing the idea forward. And Kerr not only listened, but he implemented the idea and then afterwards, gave U'Ren all the credit — actions all consistent with Kerr's highly inclusive approach to leadership. In the era of ""always-on"" transformation, organizations are always going to be transforming. But doing so does not have to be exhausting. We owe it to ourselves, to our organizations and to society more broadly to boldly transform our approach to transformation. To do that, we need to start putting people first. Thank you. (Applause)"	你可曾注意過，在你請別人談談他們做了什麼改變，讓自己更好時，他們常常都神采亦亦？無論是做馬拉松訓練，重拾一項舊嗜好，或是學一項新技能，對許多人而言，自我改造計畫總是帶出非常正向的情緒。 自我改造給人自主的感覺，給人活力，甚至令人興奮。去看看那些自我成長書籍的書名：《喚醒心中的巨人》，《體現當下的力量》，這本最棒，我們都能切身領會，《相信自己很棒》（譯注：原名《你是混蛋：如何停止懷疑自己的好，開始活出超棒的生命。》） （笑聲） 談到自我改造，你會不由自主產生興奮感。但是有另外一種改造，會產生截然不同的情緒。組織改造。如果你像普羅大眾，在聽到「我們的組織即將開始改造」時，你心裡想的是「糟糕！」 （笑聲） 「裁員。」你臉色發白，腦部進入超載狀態，發狂的想找地方逃走、躲起來。 沒錯，你可以逃，但是你真的躲不掉。大部分人醒著的時間都在參與組織。因為全球化的改變，或是因為科技進步或其它因素的改變，現實就是我們的組織也跟著一直在變。事實上，我稱這個時代為「永遠都在改造」。 我跟我太太妮可拉分享這個想法時，她說：「永遠都在改造？聽起來累死了！」這大概也是你心中所想的，而你是對的。特別是如果我們繼續用以往的方法來改造組織。 但是因為我們躲不掉，我們就需要理出兩件事。第一，為什麼改造感覺這麼累？第二，怎麼改進呢？ 首先，讓我們承認改變很難。人類天生就拒絕改變，尤其是強加在他們身上的改變。然而組織會做一些事讓改變難上加難，累上加累。首先，領導者常常等太久才行動。結果就是，每件事都處於危機模式。這樣當然很累。或是，因為情況危急，他們只專注於短期的效果，卻沒有給未來帶來希望。或者他們就頭痛醫頭、腳痛醫腳，希望業務能在危機結束後盡快回到正常。 這種方法是某些學生在準備標準化測驗的方法。為了讓成績上升，老師只教考試會考的。這個方法有效，考試成績通常會上升。但是這完全達不到教育的基本目標：培養學生長期性的成功。 既然有這些阻礙，我們能做什麼來改變組織改造的方式，讓大家不至精疲力竭，卻能真的給人自主權與活力？要做到這點，我們必須專注於五項策略性規則，這些規則有一個共同點：以人為本。 以人為本的第一個規則是透過目的來啟發。大部分的改造都有財務或營運上的目標。這些目標很重要，領導者會覺得精力充沛，但是對於組織內的眾人這些目標卻不是那麼有力。要更加激勵眾人，改造需要有更深的使命感。 拿樂高為例。樂高集團已成為一個極為出眾的全球性公司。在相當有能耐的領導力之下，他們經歷了一系列的改造計畫。每一項改造都有非常具體的重點，他們的「北極星」，連結及帶領眾人，已成為樂高強有力的目標：啟發並發展未來的積木玩家。全球性地擴張？這不是為了增加銷售量，而是讓其他數百萬兒童都能玩到樂高積木。投資與創新？這不是為了開發新產品，而是讓更多孩童經歷到玩中學的樂趣。不出所料，深深的使命感更加激勵樂高的員工。 以人為本的第二項規則就是全體投入。太多改造只是減少人員數量的措施；改造只是裁員的幌子。面對無情的競爭，你可能必須做出痛苦的決定要縮編組織，就像你可能要減肥才能跑馬拉松。但是單單減肥不會讓你在勝利時刻穿過終點線。要贏，你得全體投入。你要全體投入。與其降低成本，你不如想想有什麼舉措，能讓你贏得中期目標，有什麼舉措能推動成長，能徹底改變公司營運，還有一項非常重要的，要投資在發展領導力及才能上。 第三項以人為本的規則，是要培養大家在改造期間及改造之後，成功所需要的能力。過去幾年我比過幾個三項全能競賽。你知道，坦白說，我沒那麼厲害，但是我的確有一項很獨特的能力：我在找我的自行車這方面超快。 （笑聲） 我游泳完之後，幾乎所有的自行車都不在了。 （笑聲） 真的三項鐵人都知道每段賽程──游泳、自行車、跑步──都需要不同的能力，不同的工具，不同的技巧，不同的技術。我們改造組織時也一樣，我們需要確保我們有給員工在期間所需的技巧及工具。 Chronos一家全球軟體公司，他們知道他們必須轉型，從製造產品──寫軟體產品──轉變到打造「軟體即服務」。要讓公司人員接受這項轉變，他們首先投資在新工具上，讓他們的員工能監控功能的使用，以及顧客對新服務的滿意度。他們也投資在提升技能上，所以他們的員工可以當場就解決客服問題。還有一件非常重要的，他們也加強協作行為，以打造無縫的端對端顧客體驗。因為這些投資，他們不但沒有被改造壓倒，他們的員工還覺得很有活力，對他們的新角色有自主感。 在這個「永遠都在改造」時代，改變是恆常的。因此我的第四個規則，就是要持續灌輸不斷學習的文化。薩蒂亞·納德拉於 2014 年二月就職微軟總裁時，他發起了一項雄心萬丈的蛻變之旅，要預備整個公司能在行動優先、雲端優先的世界競爭。這包括改變策略，改變組織，及很重要的部分，要改變文化。當時的微軟是閉門造車的筒倉文化與內部競爭——對學習不太有利。納德拉正面迎擊。他整合領導團隊支持他的遠見，創造一個活的、會學習的文化，從定型心態，就是你只要當公司裡最聰明的人，轉變到成長心態，也就是你要傾聽、學習，以帶出員工最好的那面。所以初期，微軟員工早就注意到這種文化上的轉變——這是微軟以人為本的清楚證據。 我第五也是最後一項規則特別要給領導者們。任何一場改造裡，領導者必須要有遠見，要有清晰的計畫及里程碑，而且你還要有人為結果負責。換句話說，你要能下指令。但是要抓住眾人的心，你也要有包容性。要以人為本，包容性的領導極為重要。 我住在舊金山灣區。現在，我們的籃球隊是聯盟裡最棒的。我們贏了 2015 的冠軍，我們今年也是勝算最大的隊伍。這點可以有很多解釋。他們有最棒的球員，但是最關鍵的原因之一是他們的總教練，史蒂芬·科爾是具包容性的領導者。科爾於 2014 年加入勇士隊時，勇士隊正想做重大改造。他們自 1975 年後就再也沒贏過一場總冠軍。 科爾加入了，他有很清楚的遠見，而且他立刻開始著手。從一開始，他就與球員和職員接觸、交流。他創造出公開辯論的環境，並徵求意見。比賽的時候他經常會問：「你有沒有看到什麼是我沒看到的？」 最好的例子是 2015 年總決賽第四場。勇士隊二敗一勝，科爾決定要換首發陣容；怎麼看都是非常大膽的舉動。勇士隊贏了那場比賽，也贏得總冠軍。大家一致認為那就是勝利的關鍵之舉。 有意思的是，那並非科爾的點子。那是他 28 歲的助理，尼克屋倫的想法。因為科爾的領導風格，屋倫可以自在地說出他的想法。科爾不僅聽到了，他還執行了這個點子，而且之後，還完全歸功給屋倫，完全符合科爾具高度包容性的領導方式。 在這個「永遠都在改造」的時代，組織永遠都要改變。但是做這件事不必累死人。我們應該為自己，為組織，甚至大範圍的說為社會，大膽改變改造的方法。要做到這點，我們要以人為本。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
