Talk	en	zh-tw
jimmy_nelson_gorgeous_portraits_of_the_world_s_vanishing_people	"Now, I've been making pictures for quite a long time, and normally speaking, a picture like this, for me, should be straightforward. I'm in southern Ethiopia. I'm with the Daasanach. There's a big family, there's a very beautiful tree, and I make these pictures with this very large, extremely cumbersome, very awkward technical plate film camera. Does anybody know 4x5 and 10x8 sheets of film, and you're setting it up, putting it on the tripod. I've got the family, spent the better part of a day talking with them. They sort of understand what I'm on about. They think I'm a bit crazy, but that's another story. And what's most important for me is the beauty and the aesthetic, and that's based on the light. So the light's setting on my left-hand side, and there's a balance in the communication with the Daasanach, the family of 30, all ages. There's babies and there's grandparents, I'm getting them in the tree and waiting for the light to set, and it's going, going, and I've got one sheet of film left, and I think, I'm okay, I'm in control, I'm in control. I'm setting it up and I'm setting up, and the light's just about to go, and I want it to be golden, I want it to be beautiful. I want it to be hanging on the horizon so it lights these people, in all the potential glory that they could be presented. And it's about to go  and it's about to go, and I put my sheet in the camera, it's all focused, and all of a sudden there's a massive ""whack,"" and I'm looking around, and in the top corner of the tree, one of the girls slaps the girl next to her, and the girl next to her pulls her hair, and all hell breaks loose, and I'm standing there going, ""But the light, the light. Wait, I need the light. Stay still! Stay still!"" And they start screaming, and then one of the men turns around and starts screaming, shouting, and the whole tree collapses, not the tree, but the people in the tree. They're all running around screaming, and they run back off into the village in this sort of cloud of smoke, and I'm left there standing behind my tripod. I've got my sheet, and the light's gone, and I can't make the picture. Where have they all gone? I had no idea. It took me a week, it took me a week to make the picture which you see here today, and I'll tell you why. (Applause) It's very, very, very simple — I spent a week going around the village, and I went to every single one: ""Hello, can you meet at the tree? What's your story? Who are you?"" And it all turned out to be about a boyfriend, for crying out loud. I mean, I have teenage kids. I should know. It was about a boyfriend. The girl on the top, she'd kissed the wrong boy, and they'd started having a fight. And there was a very, very beautiful lesson for me in that: If I was going to photograph these people in the dignified, respectful way that I had intended, and put them on a pedestal, I had to understand them. It wasn't just about turning up. It wasn't just about shaking a hand. It wasn't about just saying, ""I'm Jimmy, I'm a photographer."" I had to get to know every single one of them, right down to whose boyfriend is who and who is allowed to kiss who. So in the end, a week later, and I was absolutely exhausted, I mean on my knees going, ""Please get back up in that tree. It's a picture I need to make."" They all came back. I put them all back up in the tree. I made sure the girls were in the right position, and the ones that slapped, one was over there. They did look at each other. If you look at it later, they're staring at each other very angrily, and I've got the tree and everything, and then at the last minute, I go, ""The goat, the goat! I need something for the eye to look at. I need a white goat in the middle."" So I swapped all the goats around. I put the goats in. But even then I got it wrong, because if you can see on the left-hand side, another little boy storms off because I didn't choose his goat. So the moral being I have to learn to speak Goat as well as Daasanach. But anyway, the effort that goes into that picture and the story that I've just related to you, as you can imagine, there are hundreds of other bizarre, eccentric stories of hundreds of other people around the world. And this was about four years ago, and I set off on a journey, to be honest, a very indulgent journey. I'm a real romantic. I'm an idealist, perhaps in some ways naive. But I truly believe that there are people on the planet that are beautiful. It's very, very simple. It's not rocket science. I wanted to put these people on a pedestal. I wanted to put them on a pedestal like they'd never been seen before. So, I chose about 35 different groups, tribes, indigenous cultures. They were chosen purely because of their aesthetic, and I'll talk more about that later. I'm not an anthropologist, I have no technical study with the subject, but I do have a very, very, very deep passion, and I believe that I had to choose the most beautiful people on the planet in the most beautiful environment that they lived in, and put the two together and present them to you. About a year ago, I published the first pictures, and something extraordinarily exciting happened. The whole world came running, and it was a bizarre experience, because everybody, from everywhere: ""Who are they? What are they? How many are they? Where did you find them? Are they real? You faked it. Tell me. Tell me. Tell me. Tell me."" Millions of questions for which, to be honest, I don't have the answers. I really didn't have the answers, and I could sort of understand, okay, they're beautiful, that was my intention, but the questions that I was being fired at, I could not answer them. Until, it was quite amusing, about a year ago somebody said, ""You've been invited to do a TED Talk."" And I said, ""Ted? Ted? Who's Ted? I haven't met Ted before."" He said, ""No, a TED Talk."" I said, ""But who's Ted? Do I have to talk to him or do we sit with each other on the stage?"" And, ""No, no, the TED group. You must know about it."" And I said, ""I've been in a teepee and in a yurt for the last five years. How do I know who Ted is? Introduce me to him."" Anyway, to cut a long story short, he said, ""We have to do a TED Talk."" Researched. Oh, exciting. That's great! And then eventually you're going to go to TEDGlobal. Even more exciting. But what you need to do, you need to teach the people lessons, lessons that you've learned on your travels around the world with these tribes. I thought, lessons, okay, well, what did I learn? Good question. Three. You need three lessons, and they need to be terribly profound. (Laughter) And I thought, three lessons, well, I'm going to think about it. (Applause) So I thought long and hard, and I stood here two days ago, and I had my test run, and I had my cards and my clicker in my hands and my pictures were on the screen, and I had my three lessons, and I started presenting them, and I had this very odd out-of-body experience. I sort of looked at myself standing there, going, ""Oh, Jimmy, this is complete loads of codswallop. All these people sitting here, they've had more of these talks, they've heard more lessons in their life. Who are you to tell them what you've learned? Who are you to guide them and who are you to show them what is right, what is wrong, what these people have to say?"" And I had a little bit of a, it was very private, a little bit of a meltdown. I went back, and a little bit like the boy walking away from the tree with his goats, very disgruntled, going, that didn't work, It wasn't what I wanted to communicate. And I thought long and hard about it, and I thought, well, the only thing I can communicate is very, very basic. You have to turn it all the way around. There's only one person I know here, and that's me. I'm still getting to know myself, and it's a lifelong journey, and I probably won't have all the answers, but I did learn some extraordinary things on this journey. So what I'm going to do is share with you my lessons. It's a very, as I explained at the beginning, very indulgent, very personal, how and why I made these pictures, and I leave it to you as the audience to interpret what these lessons have meant to me, what they could perhaps mean to you. I traveled enormously as a child. I was very nomadic. It was actually very exciting. All around the world, and I had this feeling that I was pushed off at great speed to become somebody, become that individual, Jimmy. Go off into the planet, and so I ran, and I ran, and my wife sometimes kids me, ""Jimmy, you look a bit like Forrest Gump,"" but I'm, ""No, it's all about something, trust me."" So I kept running and I kept running, and I sort of got somewhere and I sort of stood there and looked around me and I thought, well, where do I belong? Where do I fit? What am I? Where am I from? I had no idea. So I hope there aren't too many psychologists in this audience. Perhaps part of this journey is about me trying to find out where I belonged. So whilst going, and don't worry, I didn't when I arrived with these tribes, I didn't paint myself yellow and run around with these spears and loincloths. But what I did find were people that belonged themselves, and they inspired me, some extraordinary people, and I'd like to introduce you to some heroes of mine. They're the Huli. Now, the Huli are some of the most extraordinarily beautiful people on the planet. They're proud. They live in the Papua New Guinean highlands. There's not many of them left, and they're called the Huli wigmen. And images like this, I mean, this is what it's all about for me. And you've spent weeks and months there talking with them, getting there, and I want to put them on a pedestal, and I said, ""You have something that many people have not seen. You sit in this stunning nature."" And it really does look like this, and they really do look like this. This is the real thing. And you know why they're proud? You know why they look like this, and why I broke my back literally to photograph them and present them to you? It's because they have these extraordinary rituals. And the Huli have this ritual: When they're teenagers, becoming a man, they have to shave their heads, and they spend the rest of their life shaving their heads every single day, and what they do with that hair, they make it into a creation, a creation that's a very personal creation. It's their creation. It's their Huli creation. So they're called the Huli wigmen. That's a wig on his head. It's all made out of his human hair. And then they decorate that wig with the feathers of the birds of paradise, and don't worry, there are many birds there. There's very few people living, so nothing to get too upset about, and they spend the rest of their life recreating these hats and getting further and further, and it's extraordinary, and there's another group, they're called the Kalam, and they live in the next valley, but they speak a completely different language, they look completely different, and they wear a hat, and it's built out of scarabs, these fantastic emerald green little scarabs, and sometimes there are 5,000 or 6,000 scarabs in this hat, and they spend the whole of their life collecting these scarabs to build these hats. So the Huli inspired me in that they belong. Perhaps I have to work harder at finding a ritual which matters for me and going back into my past to see where I actually fit. An extremely important part of this project was about how I photograph these extraordinary people. And it's basically beauty. I think beauty matters. We spend the whole of our existence revolving around beauty: beautiful places, beautiful things, and ultimately, beautiful people. It's very, very, very significant. I've spent all of my life analyzing what do I look like? Am I perceived as beautiful? Does it matter if I'm a beautiful person or not, or is it purely based on my aesthetic? And then when I went off, I came to a very narrow conclusion. Do I have to go around the world photographing, excuse me, women between the age of 25 and 30? Is that what beauty is going to be? Is everything before and after that utterly irrelevant? And it was only until I went on a journey, a journey that was so extreme, I still get shivers when I think about it. I went to a part of the world, and I don't know whether any of you have ever heard of Chukotka. Has anybody ever heard of Chukotka? Chukotka probably is, technically, as far as one can go and still be on the living planet. It's 13 hours' flight from Moscow. First you've got to get to Moscow, and then 13 hours' flight nonstop from Moscow. And that's if you get there. As you can see, some people sort of miss the runway. And then when you land there, in Chukotka are the Chukchis. Now, the Chukchis are the last indigenous Inuits of Siberia, and they're people I'd heard about, I'd hardly seen any images of, but I knew they were there, and I'd been in touch with this guide, and this guide said, ""There's this fantastic tribe. There's only about 40 of them. You'll be okay. We'll find them."" So off we went on this journey. When we arrived there, after a month of traveling across the ice, and we'd got to them, but then I was not allowed to photograph them. They said, ""You cannot photograph us. You have to wait. You have to wait until you get to know us. You have to wait until you understand us. You have to wait until you see how we interact with one another."" And only then, it was many, many weeks later, I saw a respect. They had zero judgment. They observed one another, from the youth, from the middle aged to the old. They need each other. The children need to chew the meat all day because the adults don't have any teeth, but at the same time, the children take the old aged people out to the toilet because they're infirm, so there's this fantastic community of respect. And they adore and admire one another, and they truly taught me what beauty was. (Applause) Now I'm going to ask for a little bit of audience interaction. This is extremely important for the end of my talk. If you could look at somebody left to the right of you, and I want you to observe them, and I want you to give them a compliment. This is very important. Now, it may be their nose or their hair or even their aura, I don't mind, but please look at each other, give them a compliment. You have to be quick, because I'm running out of time. And you have to remember it. Okay, thank you, thank you, thank you, you've given each other compliments. Hold that compliment very, very tightly. Hold it for later. And the last thing, it was extraordinarily profound, and it happened only two weeks ago. Two weeks ago I went back to the Himba. Now, the Himba live in northern Namibia on the border of Angola, and I'd been there a few times before, and I'd gone back to present this book I'd made, to show them the pictures, to get into a discussion with them, to say, ""This is how I saw you. This is how I love you. This is how I respect you. What do you think? Am I right? Am I wrong?"" So I wanted this debate. It was very, very, very emotional, and one night we were sitting around the campfire, and I have to be honest, I think I'd had a little bit too much to drink, and I was sort of sitting under the stars going, ""This is great, you've seen my pictures, we love each other."" (Laughter) And I'm a little bit slow, and I looked around me, and I said, I thought, maybe, the fence is missing. Wasn't there a fence here last time I came? You know, this big protective fence around the village, and they sort of looked at me and go, ""Yeah, chief die."" And I thought, okay, chief dying, right, you know, look up at the stars again, look at the campfire. Chief die. What on Earth does chief die have to do with the fence? ""Chief die. First we destroy, yeah? Then we reflect. Then we rebuild. Then we respect."" And I burst out in tears, because my father had only just died prior to this journey, and I didn't ever acknowledge him, I didn't ever appreciate him for the fact that I'm probably standing here today because of him. These people taught me that we are only who we are because of our parents and our grandparents and our forefathers going on and on and on before that, and I, no matter how romantic or how idealistic I am on this journey, I did not know that until two weeks ago. I did not know that until two weeks ago. So what's this all about? Well, there's an image I'd like to show you, quite a special image, and it wasn't essentially the image I wanted to choose. I was sitting there the other day, and I have to finish on a strong image. And somebody said, ""You have to show them the picture of the Nenets. The Nenets."" I was like, yeah, but that's not my favorite picture. She went, ""No no no no no no no. It's an amazing picture. You're in his eyes."" I said, ""What do you mean I'm in his eyes? It's a picture of the Nenets."" She said, ""No, look, look closely, you're in his eyes."" And when you look closely at this picture, there is a reflection of me in his eyes, so I think perhaps he has my soul, and I'm in his soul, and whilst these pictures look at you, I ask you to look at them. You may not be reflected in his eyes, but there is something extraordinarily important about these people. I don't ultimately have the answers, as I've just shared with you, but you must do. There must be something there. So if you can briefly reflect on what I was discussing about beauty and about belonging and about our ancestors and our roots, and I need you all to stand for me, please. (Laughter) Now you have no excuse. It's almost lunchtime, and this is not a standing ovation, so don't worry, I'm not fishing for compliments. But you were given a compliment a few minutes ago. Now I want you to stand tall. I want you to breathe in. This is what I say. I'm not going to get on my knees for two weeks. I'm not going to ask you to carry a goat, and I know you don't have any camels. Photography's extraordinarily powerful. It's this language which we now all understand. We truly do all understand it, and we have this global digital fireplace, don't we, but I want to share you with the world, because you are also a tribe. You are the TED tribe, yeah? But you have to remember that compliment. You have to stand tall, breathe in through your nose, and I'm going to photograph you. Okay? I need to do a panoramic shot, so it's going to take a minute, so you have to concentrate, okay? Breathe in, stand tall, no laughing. Shh, breathe through your nose. I'm going to photograph. (Clicks) Thank you. (Applause)"	我拍攝照片已經有很長一段時間了，通常來講像這張照片對我來說應該是一發即中的，我在南伊索比亞與「達薩納奇人」在一起那裡有一個大家族、一棵非常漂亮的樹，我用非常大台、極為笨重、非常難搞的平面底片攝相機拍出這些照片有人知道一張 4 x 5 和 10 x 8大小的底片嗎？我就把它裝設好、放置到三腳架上。我找上了該家族，花了好半天跟他們聊天，他們似乎聽懂了我講的意思，他們認為我有點不正常，不過那是另一個故事了。對我來說最重要的是漂亮和美感，彼乃取決於光線；所以陽光就在我的左手邊轉暗，其與「達薩納奇人」之間的聯繫有著一種平衡，老老少少三十人的家庭，有嬰兒也有祖父母輩。我把他們弄上樹去等著太陽下山，時間一分一秒過去，我手邊只剩下一張底片，我認為我準備好了！一切都在我的掌控下了！我正在裝底片、調整相機，天色差不多要轉暗了，我想要光線轉成金黃色的、很漂亮的，我想要它停留在地平線上，這樣的話它會照亮這些人，展現出他們最內蘊的美麗樣貌，天色要轉暗了！天色要轉暗了！我把底片放進相機，相機已經聚焦好了，突然間有聲巨大的拍擊，我四處張望著，而在樹的頂端一個女孩賞了她身邊另一個女孩一巴掌，她旁邊那個女孩就抓了她的頭髮，整個亂成了一團，我就站在那邊喊著：「光線！光線！我需要這個光線！保持好姿勢啊！」然後她們開始尖叫，接著一個男的轉過身開始尖叫、嘶喊，然後整棵樹倒了，不是啦！是在樹上的人掉了下來。他們全都尖叫著四處奔跑，一溜煙地回到村子裡，徒留我一個人站立在我的三腳架後面。我裝好了底片、陽光消失了，而我無法拍出照片了！他們全都跑哪去了呀？我完全不知道。 這花了我一個禮拜！拍出你今天在這裡看到的這張照片，我會跟你們說是什麼原因的。（掌聲）道理非常簡單－我花了一個禮拜走遍整個村莊，我一一找上門去問：「哈囉！你能在那棵樹那裡跟我碰面嗎？你有什麼故事？你是誰啊？」這般哭天搶地結果全是為了個男朋友，我是說我自己也有小孩子，我早該料到的。就是為了個男朋友啦，在頂頭的女孩親錯了男孩，她們就開始打起來了，這讓我上了非常精采的一門課：「要是我打算一如我所願莊敬地來拍攝這些人，而且把他們放在基座上，我得要去瞭解他們。」並不是突然跑了出來、握一下手，說著：「我是吉米！我是攝影師！」。我得去認識他們每一個人，就連誰的男朋友是誰、誰可以去親誰這種細節也得知道， 所以到了最後，在一個禮拜後我無比疲累，我幾乎是跪著說：「拜託回到樹上去，這是我需要拍的照片啊！」他們全部回到了樹上，我把他們全弄到樹上去了，我確定女孩們都在正確的位置上，打巴掌的那一個和另一個。她們彼此對看著，你等一下可以看到她們正非常生氣地盯住對方。我有了樹、有了所有東西，然後在最後一刻我說了：「山羊！還有山羊！我需要能吸引目光的東西，我需要一隻白山羊在中央。」所以我試換過所有附近的山羊，我把山羊放進去了，即使這樣，我還是做錯了，你可以看見左手邊，另一個小男孩氣沖沖走開，就因為我沒有選中他的羊！」寓意就是我必須去學「羊語」如同「達薩納奇語」一般。 總之我的努力都進到這張照片，以及我剛剛跟你們講述的故事裡，你們可以想像到，世界各地還有上百個類似的古怪稀奇故事。而這個大概是在四年前的事了，我展開了一段旅程，老實說是一段非常放縱的旅程，我是個如假包換的浪漫派、理想主義者，或許就某方面來講是天真，不過我真心相信在這個星球上有著很漂亮的人。非常簡單的事情，沒什麼大學問，我想要把這些人弄到一個基座上，我想把他們放到一個基座像是他們從來還不曾被人看到過。Ｘ所以我差不多選了 35 個不同的團體、部落或原住民文化，純粹是以他們的美感做這些選擇，我稍後會談到更多這部分的事。我不是人類學家、該類議題我沒有專業的涉略，但是我懷有深切的熱忱，而且我相信我得要選出這個星球上住在最美麗環境的最漂亮人種，把這兩者湊在一塊兒呈現在你眼前。 大約在一年前吧！我公開了第一張照片，而且發生了無比令人興奮的事情，那是一種很奇特的經驗，因為全世界各地每個人都跑過來問：「他們是誰？他們是什麼人？他們有多少人？你在哪裡找到他們的？他們是真的嗎？你騙人！告訴我、快點告訴我啦！」相關問題多不勝數。老實講我也沒有答案！我真的沒有答案，我可以有點清楚，可以了！他們很漂亮啦，那就是我要的啦，Ｘ不過我被人狂問的問題我沒有辦法解答它們。 直到大約一年前還有點好笑，有人跟我說：「你受邀去 TED 演說！」我說：「泰德？泰德嗎？誰是泰德啊？我以前從沒見過泰德呀？」他說：「不是的！是 TED 演說啦！」，我說：「不過誰是泰德呢？我是得跟他談什麼呢？還是跟他一起坐在講台上？」他說：「不是！不是啦！你一定知道 TED 大會吧！」我說：「我住在圓尖式帳棚和蒙古包裡已經五年了，我怎麼會知道誰是泰德呢？幫我介紹一下吧。」總之長話短說吧，他說：「我們得做一場 TED 演說啦。」做點功課後－哇！太好玩了、棒透了！接著是最後你將會參加TEDGlobal 的年度大會，這更有趣。但是你得做什麼呢？你需要教大家過來人的經驗，你在世界旅行與這些部落相處時學到的過來人的經驗。我想好吧！過來人的經驗喔，我學到什麼呢？好問題。三項！你需要有三項過來人的經驗，而且必須要博大精深到不行。（笑聲）我想了一下，三項過來人的經驗喔，好吧！我來想想看吧。（掌聲） 因此我努力想了很久，我兩天前就站在這裡試演過了一遍，我手上拿著小抄和切換遙控器，我的照片就在螢幕上，我想好了我的三項過來人經驗，我開始在介紹它們，我有了非常古怪的靈魄出竅經驗，我有點像看著自己站在這裡，我說：「噢！吉米，這完全是一堆廢話，所有坐在台下的這些人，他們已經聽過許多場這種演說了，他們在他們的生活中早已聽過更多過來人的經驗了，你憑什麼告訴他們你學到的東西，你憑什麼指引他們？你憑什麼跟他們講大道理、這些人得說些什麼？」然後我有一點點崩潰，這非常隱密外人全都不知道啦；我就回家了，有點像跟著他的羊一起離開樹下的那個小男孩，非常不悅地說：「這一套不行，這並不是我想要傳達的。」我又很努力地想了很久，想說好吧！唯一我可以傳達的東西非常基本：「你必須扭轉局面！」在這裡我所瞭解的只有一個人－就是我，我也還在認識自己，這是一輩子的旅程，我可能不會有一切的答案，但是在這個旅途中我的確學到一些非比尋常的事情。 所以我接下來要做的是分享我的過來人經驗給你，如同我一開始就解釋過，那是非常放縱、很私人的，我怎樣和為什麼要拍這些照片，我把這個留給你們聽眾來解讀這些過來人的經驗對我、或者可以對你們有什麼意義？ 我小時候經常旅行，非常居無定所的，那真的很好玩，跑遍了整個世界；我有著被高速催促著成為某人的這種感覺，成為「吉米」這個人，離開去深入這星球！所以我跑了又跑，我太太偶爾取笑我：「吉米，你看起來有點像『阿甘』喔！」，不過我會說：「不是啦，這都是有意義的啦，相信我！」我持續不斷地跑，我像是到了某處，像是站在那裡望著我的四周，想著我的歸屬於哪裡？哪個地方適合我？我是什麼？我從哪裡來的？我半點頭緒都沒有的；我希望聽眾之中沒有太多心理學專家，也許旅程的一部分和我試著找出我的歸屬在哪裡有關。所以當我在行進時、當我抵達且與那些部族在一起時，Ｘ別操心啦我沒有把我自己塗上黃色帶著尖矛與獅鬃到處跑；Ｘ 不過我發現到的是這些人就是屬於他們自己的，他們啟發了我－那些少數不同一般的人，而我想要跟你們介紹一些我非常崇尚的人－「胡力人」 「胡力人」是當今這星球上絕美的一些人，他們非常自豪、住在巴布亞紐幾內亞的高地上，現在剩下來的人已經不多了，他們被叫做「胡力溫格人」，像這樣的形像就是所為何來了。花了數個禮拜、幾個月到達那裡、跟他們對談，我想要將他們擺在一個基座上，我說：「你們有著許多人都沒見識過的一些東西，你們處在迷人的自然裡。」環境真的就是這個樣子，他們人真的就是這個樣子，這是真實的東西。你知道為什麼他們很自豪嗎？你知道為什麼他們就是這個樣子嗎？為什麼我真的拼了老命克服一切險難來把他們照下來呈現給你們看呢？因為他們有著非常罕見的儀式， 胡利人有個當他們從小夥子邁入成年人時得剃光頭髮的儀式，接著他們會用餘生的每一天來剃頭，而他們怎麼處理他們剃下來的頭髮呢？他們把它變成一種創作，一種非常私人的創作，那是他們的創作、那是胡利人的創作，所以他們被叫做胡利「假髮人」。在他頭上的是一頂假髮，那全是用他的頭髮做的，然後他們用天堂鳥的羽毛來裝飾假髮，不必操心，那裡還有著許多的天堂鳥；只有非常少的人住在那裡，所以不用太為天堂鳥感到難過的，他們用餘生持續製作這些帽子讓它變得越來越大頂。而且非常少見地那裡有另一群人，他們叫做「迦朗人」，他們就住在旁邊的村莊，但是他們說著完全不一樣的語言、長得完全不一樣，他們戴著帽子，帽子是用甲蟲編製成的，這些非常棒的翡翠綠色小甲蟲，有時候帽子裡會有著五、六千隻的小甲蟲，他們花費一輩子的時間蒐集這些甲蟲來編製這些帽子。 所以胡利人在他們的歸屬上激發了我，也許我應該更努力找出對我來說重要的儀式，回顧我的過往來尋找我的歸屬。 這個計畫極其重要的一部分，是我該如何拍攝這些不同凡響的人，基本上要很漂亮，我認為漂亮是重點，我們用了人類的整個歷史不斷圍繞著「漂亮」打轉－漂亮的地方、漂亮的東西、以及莫過於漂亮的人！這是非常、非常、非常的重要！我花了整輩子在分析我看起來像什麼？我有沒有被看成是漂亮的嗎？我是否為一個漂亮的人重要嗎？還是漂亮與否純粹只是根據我自己的美感？然後等我離開後，我做出了非常淺窄的結論：「原諒我的失禮，我得跑遍世界去拍攝25 到 30 歲的女人嗎？那是漂亮該有的年紀嗎？老一些、小一點完全扯不上邊嗎？」 直到我踏上了一個旅程，一個非常極端的旅程，當我想到它時我仍舊會打顫。我前往世界上的一個角落，我不知道你們之中是否有人曾經聽說過「椘科芝加自治區」嗎？有誰曾經聽過椘科芝加自治區嗎？椘科芝加自治區嚴格來說可能是一個人所能到的最遙遠的地方，而且依舊在我們生活的這個星球上，從莫斯科要飛 13 個小時的航程。首先你要到莫斯科，然後從那裡開始13 個小時不中斷的飛行航程，那是假使你到得了那邊的話啦；就像你知道的，有些人好像就錯過跑道不見了。 然後當你降落在那裡，在椘科芝加自治區的是「椘科奇人」；現在楚科奇人是西伯利亞「因紐特人」最後的原住民，他們是我有聽過的人種，我幾乎不曾看過任何他們的樣貌，不過我知道他們就在那邊。我曾經和導遊聯繫過，而導遊說：「那裡有著這個不真切的部落，他們只有 40 個人，你不會有事的，我們會找到他們。」當我們經過一個月橫跨冰原的旅程後抵達那裡、找到了人；不過接下來我尚未取得同意來拍攝他們，他們說：「你不能拍我們，你必須等，等到你認識我們、等到你瞭解我們、等到你清楚我們是如何與彼此互動！」只有到那之後，也就是許多個禮拜以後我看到了「尊敬」；他們沒有批判、他們觀察彼此，從小孩子、中年人到老人家，他們需要對方。小孩子必須整天咀嚼肉類，因為成年人全都沒有牙齒，同時小孩們要帶老人家出去上廁所，因為老年人是虛弱的；所以那裡有這個如夢似幻的「尊重之邦」。而且他們鍾愛與欣賞自己以外的人，他們確實教了我什麼是「美」。(掌聲) 現在我打算要求做一些聽眾互動，對演說的結尾來說這是非常重要的，要是你可以看到在你左右的人，我要你觀察他們，讚美他們一下，這非常重要。可能是他們的鼻子，或是他們的頭髮，甚至是他們的氣味，我都不在乎啦，但是拜託看著對方，讚美他們一聲，你們得要快一些了，因為我時間快要用完了，然後你們要記下來， 好了，謝謝你們、謝謝你們！你們已經給對方做過讚美了，牢牢記住這個讚美，再記住它一下子。 最後一件異常深刻的事情，才兩週前所發生的事，兩週前我回到「辛巴族」去，辛巴族現在住在納米比亞的北方、安哥拉的國境邊緣，早前我去到哪裡幾次過，我這次回去是展示我完成的這本書，拿照片給他們看、跟他們一起討論，跟他們說：「這是我如何看待你們、熱愛你們、敬重你們，你們怎麼看呢？我的想法對嗎？」所以我想要這樣的辯論，辯論非常非常熱烈，而有一晚我們圍繞著營火坐著，我得先坦承我想我有點喝過頭了，我坐在星空下說：「太棒了！你們已經看過我的照片了，我們都珍愛著對方。」（笑聲）然後我動作有一點慢，我環顧四週然後說：「我想或許圍籬不見了，上次我來的時候不是有個圍籬嗎？就在村莊周圍那個大型的防護圍籬。」他們稍微看著我然後說：「頭目死了啦！」然後我就想好吧！頭目死了呀，沒錯就像你知道的，我又再朝上看了一下星星、看看營火，頭目死了阿？頭目死了關圍籬什麼事啊？族民說：「頭目死了，首先我們拆掉了圍籬，接著我們詳細考慮，接著我們重建圍籬，接著我們尊敬這一切。」而我就湧出淚水來，因為我父親在這趟旅程稍早前才剛死掉，我從來不認識他，我不曾因為我有可能站在這裡的事實正是因為有他而感激他，這些人教了我因為有我們的父母、祖父母、先祖們、再比他們高出一輩又一輩者，我們才是我們。而我不論在旅程中有多浪漫、多理想，直到兩個禮拜前我都不知道這些！ 因此這一切有什麼意思呢？那好這裡有一張我想要讓你們看的圖片，一張相當特別的圖片，這基本上不是我想要選出的圖像，有一天我正坐著，我得要完成一張很有力的照片，某人就說了「你得拿「奈勒伏人」的照片給他們看。」我好像說：「不過那不是我最喜愛的照片耶」，她說道：「不不不！那是一張令人驚奇的照片，你就在他的眼裡呀！」我說：「我就在他的眼裡？什麼意思啊？這是張奈勒伏人的照片阿。」她說：「沒有啦！瞧，近一些看，你就在他的眼裡！」然後當你近看這張照片，他的眼睛裡有著一個我的倒影，所以我想也許他擁有我的靈魂，而我在他的靈魂裡；在這些照片看著你的時候，我請求你看看它們，你可能不會反映在他們的眼睛裡，但是這些人和非常重要的東西有關，我最終也不會有這些答案，如同我剛才分享給你們知道的，但是你們一定要去找答案，裡面一定有些什麼東西的。所以要是你們可以大致地回想我剛剛在談論的漂亮、歸屬、美感、我們的根源，我需要你們全部站起來挺我一下，拜託！（笑聲）現在你沒得推託了，午餐時間要到了，這不是要起身鼓掌所以別擔心，我並不是在廣求恭維。（ 笑聲 ）不過你們幾分鐘之前才被人讚美過了，現在我要你們站直、吸氣挺胸，這就是我要的，我不打算下跪兩個禮拜、我沒有打算要你們帶隻山羊來、我也知道你們沒有駱駝，拍照是格外地富含力量的，它是一種我們現在都能懂的語言，我們確實是全都懂，而且我們有著全球數位的熔爐不是嗎？不過我想要跟你們分享這個世界，因為你們也是一個部落阿，你們是 TED 族對吧？但是你得要記住那個讚美，你得站直、從鼻子吸氣，然後我要拍下你們了，可以了嗎？我需要做全景拍攝，所以這將會用上一分鐘，你們得要聚精會神，好嗎？吸氣、站直、不要笑，噓！從你的鼻子吸氣，我要照相了喔。 （喀喳）（喀喳） 謝謝你們！ （掌聲）
