Talk	en	zh-tw
joe_madiath_better_toilets_better_life	"It is very fashionable and proper  to speak about food in all its forms, all its colors,  aromas and tastes. But after the food goes through  the digestive system, when it is thrown out as crap, it is no longer fashionable to speak about it. It is rather revolting. I'm a guy who has graduated  from bullshit to full-shit. (Laughter) My organization, Gram Vikas, which means ""village development organization,"" was working in the area  of renewable energy. On the most part, we were  producing biogas, biogas for rural kitchens. We produce biogas in India  by using animal manure, which usually, in India,  is called cow dung. But as the gender-sensitive  person that I am, I would like to call it bullshit. But realizing later on how important were sanitation and the disposal of crap in a proper way, we went into the arena of sanitation. Eighty percent of all diseases  in India and most developing countries are because of poor quality water. And when we look at the reason  for poor quality water, you find that it is our abysmal attitude  to the disposal of human waste. Human waste, in its rawest form, finds its way back to drinking water, bathing water, washing water, irrigation water, whatever water you see. And this is the cause for 80 percent  of the diseases in rural areas. In India, it is unfortunately only the women who carry water. So for all domestic needs, women have to carry water. So that is a pitiable state of affairs. Open defecation is rampant. Seventy percent of India defecates in the open. They sit there out in the open, with the wind on their sails, hiding their faces, exposing their bases, and sitting there in pristine glory — 70 percent of India. And if you look at the world total, 60 percent of all the crap that is thrown into the open is by Indians. A fantastic distinction. I don't know if we Indians can be proud of such a distinction. (Laughter) So we, together with a lot of villages, we began to talk about how to really  address this situation of sanitation. And we came together and formed  a project called MANTRA. MANTRA stands for Movement and Action Network for Transformation of Rural Areas. So we are speaking about transformation, transformation in rural areas. Villages that agree  to implement this project, they organize a legal society where the general body  consists of all members who elect a group of men and women who implement the project and, later on, who look after the operation and maintenance. They decide to build a toilet  and a shower room. And from a protected water source, water will be brought to an elevated water reservoir and piped to all households through three taps: one in the toilet, one in the shower,  one in the kitchen, 24 hours a day. The pity is that our cities, like New Delhi and Bombay, do not have a 24-hour water supply. But in these villages, we want to have it. There is a distinct difference  in the quality. Well in India, we have a theory, which is very much accepted by the government bureaucracy and all those who matter, that poor people deserve poor solutions and absolutely poor people deserve pathetic solutions. This, combined with  a Nobel Prize-worthy theory that the cheapest is the most economic, is the heady cocktail that the poor are forced to drink. We are fighting against this. We feel that the poor have been humiliated for centuries. And even in sanitation, they should not be humiliated. Sanitation is more about dignity than about human disposal of waste. And so you build these toilets  and very often, we have to hear that the toilets are better than their houses. And you can see that in front are  the attached houses and the others are the toilets. So these people, without a single exception of a family in a village, decide to build a toilet, a bathing room. And for that, they come together, collect all the local materials — local materials like rubble,  sand, aggregates, usually a government subsidy is available to meet at least part of the cost  of external materials like cement, steel, toilet commode. And they build a toilet  and a bathing room. Also, all the unskilled laborers, that is  daily wage earners, mostly landless, are given an opportunity to be  trained as masons and plumbers. So while these people are being trained,  others are collecting the materials. And when both are ready, they build a toilet, a shower room, and of course also a water tower,  an elevated water reservoir. We use a system of two leach pits  to treat the waste. From the toilet, the muck comes into the first leach pit. And when it is full, it is blocked  and it can go to the next. But we discovered that if you plant banana trees, papaya trees on the periphery of these leach pits, they grow very well because they suck up all the nutrients and you get very tasty bananas, papayas. If any of you come to my place, I would be happy to share these bananas and papayas with you. So there you can see  the completed toilets, the water towers. This is in a village where  most of the people are even illiterate. It is always a 24-hour water supply because water gets polluted very often when you store it — a child dips his or her hand into it, something falls into it. So no water is stored. It's always on tap. This is how an elevated  water reservoir is constructed. And that is the end product. Because it has to go high, and there is some space available, two or three rooms are made under the water tower, which are used by the village for  different committee meetings. We have had clear evidence of the great impact of this program. Before we started, there were, as usual, more than 80 percent of people suffering from waterborne diseases. But after this, we have empirical evidence that 82 percent, on average, among all these villages — 1,200 villages have completed it — waterborne diseases  have come down 82 percent. (Applause) Women usually used to spend,  especially in the summer months, about six to seven hours  a day carrying water. And when they went to carry water, because, as I said earlier, it's only women who carry water, they used to take their little children, girl children, also to carry water, or else to be back at home to look after the siblings. So there were less than nine percent of girl children attending school, even if there was a school. And boys, about 30 percent. But girls, it has gone to about 90 percent and boys, almost to 100 percent. (Applause) The most vulnerable section in a village are the landless laborers who are the daily wage-earners. Because they have gone  through this training to be masons and plumbers and bar benders, now their ability to earn has  increased 300 to 400 percent. So this is a democracy in action because there is a general body,  a governing board, the committee. People are questioning,  people are governing themselves, people are learning to manage their own affairs, they are taking their own futures into their hands. And that is democracy at the grassroots level in action. More than 1,200 villages  have so far done this. It benefits over 400,000 people and it's still going on. And I hope it continues to move ahead. For India and such developing countries, armies and armaments, software companies and spaceships may not be as important as taps and toilets. Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you."	談論食物是很時髦且合乎體統的，無論是討論它的各種形狀、不同顏色、氣味和味道。但是食物經過消化系統後，當它成為廢物被排出時，談論它就不再時髦了。那甚至是令人厭惡的。 我是一個從「牛屎」畢業後成為「全屎」的傢伙。（笑聲）我的組織，「Gram Vikas」，意思是「村莊發展組織」，致力於可再生能源方面。主要是生產沼氣，供給鄉村廚房用的沼氣。我們在印度用動物糞便生產沼氣，這些動物糞便在印度就是叫做母牛糞。但我對性別很敏感，所以我要稱它為公牛糞。但我後來我了解到衛生設備和正確地處理廢物是非常重要的，我們就進入了衛生設備的領域。在印度和大多數的開發中國家，所有疾病中的百分之八十是因為不良品質地水所引起的。然後當我們調查不良水質的原因時，你會發現原因在於我們對於處理人類糞便的無法想像的態度。 人類糞便以其最原始的形式，污染了飲用水、洗澡水、洗滌用水、灌溉水，幾乎你可看到的所有水。而這是在鄉村地區百分之八十疾病的主因。在印度，非常不幸的是，只有婦女在取水。所有家用水都由婦女來取水。那是一件很可憐的事。公開如廁是很普遍的。 印度百分之七十的人公開如廁。他們在戶外如廁，風吹著，掩藏他們的臉，露出他們的下部，以原始的榮耀般坐在那裡 －百分之七十的印度人都如此。如果你以世界的全部來統計，所有丟在戶外的糞便中有60％是印度人的。多麼奇異的特性。我不知道我們印度人是否能對此特性感到自豪。（笑聲）所以我們與許多的鄉村一起， 我們開始討論如何真正地改善衛生設備的狀況。然後我們一起組成了一個專案，名為「曼特拉」。「曼特拉」（MANTRA）指代的是「鄉村地區改造的運動和行動網」。我們討論改造，鄉村地區的改造。同意執行這個專案的那些鄉村，他們組織一個合法的協會，由所有會員所組成。他們選舉一些男人和女人，作為執行這個專案的個團體，以後他們負責操作和維修。他們決定每戶都要蓋一間廁所和淋浴間。並且用一個被保護的水源，水從在架高的蓄水池，以水管輸送到所有家裡，通向三個水龍頭：一個在廁所、一個在淋浴間、一個在廚房，每天 24 小時。可惜的是我們的城市，如新德里和孟買，沒有全天候的自來水供應。但在這些鄉村裡，我們要有。生活品質上會有明顯的區別。 在印度，有一個理論被政府官僚和所有相關的人廣泛地接受，他們認為貧窮的人應該得到差勁的解決方法最貧窮的人就應該得到可悲的解決方法。這個理論與一個配得上諾貝爾獎的理論相結合，即『最便宜就是最經濟的』。所以窮人被迫喝『污水雞尾酒』。我們在抗爭這一點。我們覺得窮人在數世紀以來就一直被羞辱。然而在衛生設備，他們不應被羞辱。衛生設備事關尊嚴，而非僅僅是人類如何處理糞便。所以我們蓋這些廁所，我們經常聽說，廁所比他們的房子還好。你可以看到的是，房子在前面，其他的就是廁所。這些人，沒有一個例外，村裡的每一個家庭， 都決定要蓋一個廁所、一個浴室。為此，他們聚集在一起，收集所有當地的材料 —當地的材料如瓦礫、沙、聚合物，通常政府會提供補貼，来支付一部分外用材料的成本，如水泥、鋼筋、馬桶。他們以此蓋廁所和浴室。同時，所有非技術勞工，就是每日打零工生活者，主要是沒有土地者，得到被訓練成为泥水匠和水管工人的機會。當這些人在接受訓練時，其他人就收集材料。然後當兩者都準備好時，他們就蓋了一個廁所和一個浴室，當然也包括一個水塔，一個挑高的蓄水池。我們用兩個浸出坑的系統來處理廢水。從廁所，糞便進入第一個浸出坑的。當第一個浸出坑滿的時候，糞便就流入第二個。我們發現，如果你在這兩個浸出坑的周圍種香蕉樹和木瓜樹的話，它們就會長得很好，因為它們有所有的營養，会成为很好吃的香蕉和木瓜。各位如果到我家，我會很樂意拿這些香蕉和木瓜與你分享。這是完工後的廁所和水塔。這是在一個幾乎所有居民都是文盲的鄉村。 那裡有全天候的供水因為當你儲存水的話水很快就被污染 —例如小孩用手伸進去，或者東西掉進去。因此他們都不儲藏水，都用自來水。這是挑高的蓄水塔建造的方法。然後這是完成品。因為它必須放在高的地方，所以下面就有一些空間，在水塔下我們建造了兩三個房間，用來做村民開會的地方。我們有很清楚的證據证明這個計畫效果显著。 在我們開始以前，那里一直有多於百分之八十的人得到藉由水傳染的疾病。這以後，我們有實證證明在這些鄉村裡，平均有82%的村民 —共1200個鄉村完成了這個計畫 —藉由水傳染的疾病減少了82%。（掌聲）以前婦女通常，特別是在夏天的時候，每天大約花6到7個小時取水。當她們去取水的時候，如我前面提到，因為只有婦女去取水，她們通常會帶著孩子們、女兒們一起去取水，或者讓她們在家看顧小孩。因此女孩上学的比例不到百分之九，即使村裡有學校。男孩子約百分之三十。現在女孩子已提高到90%，男孩幾乎100%。（掌聲）在鄉村最脆弱的部分，是那些無土地做零工的勞工。因為他們得到訓練，成為水泥匠、水管工和彎管工，現在他們的謀生能力增加了300%到400%。這就是一個採取行動的民主， 因為那裡有人民組成的團體、一個管理的董事會，也就是委員會。人們質疑，管理他們自己，並學習管理他們的事務，他們自己掌握他們自己的將來。這就是正在行動中的草根民主。到目前，超過 1200 個鄉村已進行這個計劃。這個計劃已讓超過 40 萬人受益，並且還在繼續進行當中。我希望這個計劃會繼續進行下去。對印度和類似的開發中國家， 軍隊和軍備，軟體公司，和太空船不如自來水和廁所來得重要。謝謝。非常感謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝。
