Talk	en	zh-tw
joel_selanikio_the_surprising_seeds_of_a_big_data_revolution_in_healthcare	"There's an old joke about a cop who's walking his beat in the middle of the night, and he comes across a guy under a street lamp who's looking at the ground and moving from side to side, and the cop asks him what he's doing. The guys says he's looking for his keys. So the cop takes his time and looks over and kind of makes a little matrix and looks for about two, three minutes. No keys. The cop says, ""Are you sure? Hey buddy, are you sure you lost your keys here?"" And the guy says, ""No, actually I lost them down at the other end of the street, but the light is better here."" (Laughter) There's a concept that people talk about nowadays called ""big data."" And what they're talking about is all of the information that we're generating through our interaction with and over the Internet, everything from Facebook and Twitter to music downloads, movies, streaming, all this kind of stuff, the live streaming of TED. And the folks who work with big data, for them, they talk about that their biggest problem is we have so much information. The biggest problem is: how do we organize all that information? I can tell you that, working in global health, that is not our biggest problem. Because for us, even though the light is better on the Internet, the data that would help us solve the problems we're trying to solve is not actually present on the Internet. So we don't know, for example, how many people right now are being affected by disasters or by conflict situations. We don't know for, really, basically, any of the clinics in the developing world, which ones have medicines and which ones don't. We have no idea of what the supply chain is for those clinics. We don't know — and this is really amazing to me — we don't know how many children were born — or how many children there are — in Bolivia or Botswana or Bhutan. We don't know how many kids died last week in any of those countries. We don't know the needs of the elderly, the mentally ill. For all of these different critically important problems or critically important areas that we want to solve problems in, we basically know nothing at all. And part of the reason why we don't know anything at all is that the information technology systems that we use in global health to find the data to solve these problems is what you see here. This is about a 5,000-year-old technology. Some of you may have used it before. It's kind of on its way out now, but we still use it for 99 percent of our stuff. This is a paper form. And what you're looking at is a paper form in the hand of a Ministry of Health nurse in Indonesia, who is tramping out across the countryside in Indonesia on, I'm sure, a very hot and humid day, and she is going to be knocking on thousands of doors over a period of weeks or months, knocking on the doors and saying, ""Excuse me, we'd like to ask you some questions. Do you have any children? Were your children vaccinated?"" Because the only way we can actually find out how many children were vaccinated in the country of Indonesia, what percentage were vaccinated, is actually not on the Internet, but by going out and knocking on doors, sometimes tens of thousands of doors. Sometimes it takes months to even years to do something like this. You know, a census of Indonesia would probably take two years to accomplish. And the problem, of course, with all of this is that, with all those paper forms — and I'm telling you, we have paper forms for every possible thing: We have paper forms for vaccination surveys. We have paper forms to track people who come into clinics. We have paper forms to track drug supplies, blood supplies — all these different paper forms for many different topics, they all have a single, common endpoint, and the common endpoint looks something like this. And what we're looking at here is a truckful of data. This is the data from a single vaccination coverage survey in a single district in the country of Zambia from a few years ago, that I participated in. The only thing anyone was trying to find out is what percentage of Zambian children are vaccinated, and this is the data, collected on paper over weeks, from a single district, which is something like a county in the United States. You can imagine that, for the entire country of Zambia, answering just that single question ... looks something like this. Truck after truck after truck, filled with stack after stack after stack of data. And what makes it even worse is that's just the beginning. Because once you've collected all that data, of course, someone — some unfortunate person — is going to have to type that into a computer. When I was a graduate student, I actually was that unfortunate person sometimes. I can tell you, I often wasn't really paying attention. I probably made a lot of mistakes when I did it that no one ever discovered, so data quality goes down. But eventually that data, hopefully, gets typed into a computer, and someone can begin to analyze it, and once they have an analysis and a report, hopefully, then you can take the results of that data collection and use it to vaccinate children better. Because if there's anything worse in the field of global public health — I don't know what's worse than allowing children on this planet to die of vaccine-preventable diseases — diseases for which the vaccine costs a dollar. And millions of children die of these diseases every year. And the fact is, millions is a gross estimate, because we don't really know how many kids die each year of this. What makes it even more frustrating is that the data-entry part, the part that I used to do as a grad student, can take sometimes six months. Sometimes it can take two years to type that information into a computer, And sometimes, actually not infrequently, it actually never happens. Now try and wrap your head around that for a second. You just had teams of hundreds of people. They went out into the field to answer a particular question. You probably spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on fuel and photocopying and per diem. And then for some reason, momentum is lost or there's no money left, and all of that comes to nothing, because no one actually types it into the computer at all. The process just stops. Happens all the time. This is what we base our decisions on in global health: little data, old data, no data. So back in 1995, I began to think about ways in which we could improve this process. Now 1995 — obviously, that was quite a long time ago. It kind of frightens me to think of how long ago that was. The top movie of the year was ""Die Hard with a Vengeance."" As you can see, Bruce Willis had a lot more hair back then. I was working in the Centers for Disease Control and I had a lot more hair back then as well. But to me, the most significant thing that I saw in 1995 was this. Hard for us to imagine, but in 1995, this was the ultimate elite mobile device. It wasn't an iPhone. It wasn't a Galaxy phone. It was a PalmPilot. And when I saw the PalmPilot for the first time, I thought, ""Why can't we put the forms on these PalmPilots? And go out into the field just carrying one PalmPilot, which can hold the capacity of tens of thousands of paper forms? Why don't we try to do that? Because if we can do that, if we can actually just collect the data electronically, digitally, from the very beginning, we can just put a shortcut right through that whole process of typing, of having somebody type that stuff into the computer. We can skip straight to the analysis and then straight to the use of the data to actually save lives."" So that's what I began to do. Working at CDC, I began to travel to different programs around the world and to train them in using PalmPilots to do data collection, instead of using paper. And it actually worked great. It worked exactly as well as anybody would have predicted. What do you know? Digital data collection is actually more efficient than collecting on paper. While I was doing it, my business partner, Rose, who's here with her husband, Matthew, here in the audience, Rose was out doing similar stuff for the American Red Cross. The problem was, after a few years of doing that, I realized — I had been to maybe six or seven programs — and I thought, you know, if I keep this up at this pace, over my whole career, maybe I'm going to go to maybe 20 or 30 programs. But the problem is, 20 or 30 programs, like, training 20 or 30 programs to use this technology, that is a tiny drop in the bucket. The demand for this, the need for data to run better programs just within health — not to mention all of the other fields in developing countries — is enormous. There are millions and millions and millions of programs, millions of clinics that need to track drugs, millions of vaccine programs. There are schools that need to track attendance. There are all these different things for us to get the data that we need to do. And I realized if I kept up the way that I was doing, I was basically hardly going to make any impact by the end of my career. And so I began to rack my brain, trying to think about, what was the process that I was doing? How was I training folks, and what were the bottlenecks and what were the obstacles to doing it faster and to doing it more efficiently? And, unfortunately, after thinking about this for some time, I identified the main obstacle. And the main obstacle, it turned out — and this is a sad realization — the main obstacle was me. So what do I mean by that? I had developed a process whereby I was the center of the universe of this technology. If you wanted to use this technology, you had to get in touch with me. That means you had to know I existed. Then you had to find the money to pay for me to fly out to your country and the money to pay for my hotel and my per diem and my daily rate. So you could be talking about 10- or 20- or 30,000 dollars, if I actually had the time or it fit my schedule and I wasn't on vacation. The point is that anything, any system that depends on a single human being or two or three or five human beings — it just doesn't scale. And this is a problem for which we need to scale this technology, and we need to scale it now. And so I began to think of ways in which I could basically take myself out of the picture. And, you know, I was thinking, ""How could I take myself out of the picture?"" for quite some time. I'd been trained that the way you distribute technology within international development is always consultant-based. It's always guys that look pretty much like me, flying from countries that look pretty much like this to other countries with people with darker skin. And you go out there, and you spend money on airfare and you spend time and you spend per diem and you spend for a hotel and all that stuff. As far as I knew, that was the only way you could distribute technology, and I couldn't figure out a way around it. But the miracle that happened — I'm going to call it Hotmail for short. You may not think of Hotmail as being miraculous, but for me it was miraculous, because I noticed, just as I was wrestling with this problem — I was working in sub-Saharan Africa, mostly, at the time — I noticed that every sub-Saharan African health worker that I was working with had a Hotmail account. And it struck me, ""Wait a minute — I know the Hotmail people surely didn't fly to the Ministry of Health in Kenya to train people in how to use Hotmail. So these guys are distributing technology, getting software capacity out there, but they're not actually flying around the world. I need to think about this more."" While I was thinking about it, people started using even more things like this, just as we were. They started using LinkedIn and Flickr and Gmail and Google Maps — all these things. Of course, all of these things are cloud based and don't require any training. They don't require any programmers. They don't require consultants. Because the business model for all these businesses requires that something be so simple we can use it ourselves, with little or no training. You just have to hear about it and go to the website. And so I thought, what would happen if we built software to do what I'd been consulting in? Instead of training people how to put forms onto mobile devices, let's create software that lets them do it themselves with no training and without me being involved. And that's exactly what we did. So we created software called Magpi, which has an online form creator. No one has to speak to me, you just have to hear about it and go to the website. You can create forms, and once you've created the forms, you push them to a variety of common mobile phones. Obviously, nowadays, we've moved past PalmPilots to mobile phones. And it doesn't have to be a smartphone, it can be a basic phone, like the phone on the right, the basic Symbian phone that's very common in developing countries. And the great part about this is it's just like Hotmail. It's cloud based, and it doesn't require any training, programming, consultants. But there are some additional benefits as well. Now we knew when we built this system, the whole point of it, just like with the PalmPilots, was that you'd be able to collect the data and immediately upload the data and get your data set. But what we found, of course, since it's already on a computer, we can deliver instant maps and analysis and graphing. We can take a process that took two years and compress that down to the space of five minutes. Unbelievable improvements in efficiency. Cloud based, no training, no consultants, no me. And I told you that in the first few years of trying to do this the old-fashioned way, going out to each country, we probably trained about 1,000 people. What happened after we did this? In the second three years, we had 14,000 people find the website, sign up and start using it to collect data: data for disaster response, Canadian pig farmers tracking pig disease and pig herds, people tracking drug supplies. One of my favorite examples, the IRC, International Rescue Committee, they have a program where semi-literate midwives, using $10 mobile phones, send a text message using our software, once a week, with the number of births and the number of deaths, which gives IRC something that no one in global health has ever had: a near-real-time system of counting babies, of knowing how many kids are born, of knowing how many children there are in Sierra Leone, which is the country where this is happening, and knowing how many children die. Physicians for Human Rights — this is moving a little bit outside the health field — they're basically training people to do rape exams in Congo, where this is an epidemic, a horrible epidemic, and they're using our software to document the evidence they find, including photographically, so that they can bring the perpetrators to justice. Camfed, another charity based out of the UK — Camfed pays girls' families to keep them in school. They understand this is the most significant intervention they can make. They used to track the disbursements, the attendance, the grades, on paper. The turnaround time between a teacher writing down grades or attendance and getting that into a report was about two to three years. Now it's real time. And because this is such a low-cost system and based in the cloud, it costs, for the entire five countries that Camfed runs this in, with tens of thousands of girls, the whole cost combined is 10,000 dollars a year. That's less than I used to get just traveling out for two weeks to do a consultation. So I told you before that when we were doing it the old-fashioned way, I realized all of our work was really adding up to just a drop in the bucket — 10, 20, 30 different programs. We've made a lot of progress, but I recognize that right now, even the work that we've done with 14,000 people using this is still a drop in the bucket. But something's changed, and I think it should be obvious. What's changed now is, instead of having a program in which we're scaling at such a slow rate that we can never reach all the people who need us, we've made it unnecessary for people to get reached by us. We've created a tool that lets programs keep kids in school, track the number of babies that are born and the number of babies that die, catch criminals and successfully prosecute them — to do all these different things to learn more about what's going on, to understand more, to see more ... and to save lives and improve lives. Thank you. (Applause)"	"有一個很老的笑話是說有一個警察在深夜裡巡邏，他遇到一個人在路燈下一邊盯著地面看一邊來回走警察問他在做什麼。那人說他正在找他的鑰匙。所以警察也花時間幫他找並且做了一些小記號，大概花了兩、 三分鐘。還是沒找到鑰匙。 警察說，""嘿，朋友，你確定你的鑰匙丟在這裡了嗎？” 這個人說 “不，不，其實我把它們丟在了這條街的另一邊，但是這裡的光更亮。” 現如今，人們談論著一個概念叫大數據，他們談論的是我們通過網際網路互動時我們生成的所有資訊，所有東西，從臉書、推特到音樂下載、 電影、 串流媒體所有這類的東西，TED 的直播。對於那些處理大數據的人們來說，他們談論的最大問題是我們有太多的資訊，我們面對的最大問題是，我們如何整理所有的資訊？ 我告訴你，在全球健康領域工作，這不是我們最大的問題。因為對我們來說，即使網路上的燈更亮，即使網上的數據能幫我們解決一些問題但我們試圖去解決的問題實際上卻並不存在於網路上。所以我們不知道，例如，有多少人正在遭受災難或陷入戰爭囹圄之中。我們不知道發展中國家的診所裡哪些有藥品，哪些沒有藥品。我們完全不知道這些診所的供應鏈是怎樣的。我們不知道——這真得讓我很吃驚——我們不知道有多少孩子出生，或有多少兒童在玻利維亞博茨瓦納或不丹。我們不知道在任何這些國家裡，上星期有多少孩子死去。我們不知道老年人和精神病患者的需要。對於所有這些不同的卻非常重要的問題或我們想要解決問題的非常重要的領域，我們基本上一無所知。 造成我們一無所知的部分原因是我們在全球健康組織工作時，用來查找資料，解決問題的資訊技術系統就是您在這裡看到的。這是一個大約有五千年歷史的技術。你們有些人此前可能用過。它現在已經過時了，但我們 99% 的工作都使用它。這是紙質表單，你正在看的是健康部護士手中的一張紙質表單她正徒步穿行在印度尼西亞的鄉下，在印尼，我確信，那是個十分炎熱和潮濕的一天，她要在幾週或幾個月內去敲千家萬戶的門邊敲門邊說，""打擾了，我們想問你一些問題。你有孩子嗎？你的孩子接種疫苗了嗎?""因為讓我們可以找出在印尼有多少兒童接種了疫苗和他們接種了疫苗的百分比的唯一方法，其實不在網際網路上，而是通過走出去，敲那些門，有時需要敲千千萬萬的門。有時需要幾個月甚至幾年去做這樣的事情。你知道，印尼的人口普查可能會兩年才能完成。 當然，這其中的問題在於所有那些紙質表單——我要告訴你我們什麼事情都有紙質表單。我們有接種疫苗調查的紙質表單。我們用紙質表單來跟蹤到診所來的人。我們用紙質表單來跟蹤藥品供應、血液供應，所有這些不同的紙質表單有許多不同的主題，他們都有一個共同終結點，那個共同的終結點看起來就像這樣。我們現在看到的是一卡車的數據。這只是一個疫苗接種覆蓋範圍的調查資料僅僅是尚比亞鄉下的一個地區而已它們來自於前幾年我參加的一次調查。我們唯一想找到的是尚比亞兒童接種疫苗的百分比，這是在數週內收集到紙上的數據資料，僅僅是一個地區，有點像我們在美國的一個郡。你可以想像，整個國家的尚比亞，回答只是這一個問題看起來這樣的。一車一車又一車裝滿一堆一堆又一堆的數據資料。 並且更糟糕的是，這只是開始，因為一旦你收集了所有的資料，當然有一些人必須要去——有些不幸的人必須要把它們輸入到電腦上。當我是研究生的時候，實際上我有時就是那不幸的人。我可以告訴你，我那時經常分心。我大概做了很多錯誤的輸入，沒有人會發現，所以數據資料的品質會下降。 但是最終希望那些數據被輸入到了電腦上，那樣有人就可以開始分析它們，一旦他們得出了一份分析和報告，但願你能使用那些收集來的數據結果來更好地為孩子們接種疫苗。 因為如果在全球公共健康領域有任何更糟的事情發生，我不知道世上有什麼比讓孩子們死於原本疫苗可預防的疾病更糟糕的事情，那些疾病的疫苗成本也就 1 美元。但是，每年有數百萬的兒童死於這些疾病。而且事實是，數百萬只是一個粗略的估計，因為我們真的不知道每年究竟有多少孩子死於這些疾病。 讓人更加沮喪的是，數據輸入的部分，也就是我作為研究生時曾做過的工作，有時會長達六個月之久。有時，可以用兩年時間把那些資訊輸入到電腦有時，其實經常發生，那些數據根本不會被輸入。現在試著想一想這一點。你只有一個幾百人的團隊。他們要去實地回答一個特定的問題。你很可能花掉了成百上千美元在燃料、複印和每日生活開支上，然後出於某些原因，比如沒了勁頭兒或者沒錢了，所有這一切都落空了因為實際上根本沒人把數據輸入到電腦裡。這個過程就中斷了。但這常常發生。這就是我們在在全球健康組織裡頭的決策基礎：少數據，舊數據，沒數據。 所以，我們再回到 1995 年，我開始思考我們可以改善這一過程的方法。1995 年，很明顯，那是很久以前了。想想那有多久以前真得讓我有點害怕。那年最精彩的電影是""終極警探3""。正如您所看到的，布魯斯 · 威利斯那時還有很多頭髮。我那時正在疾病控制中心工作，那時我也有很多頭髮。 但對我來說，在1995年，我看到的最有意義的事是這個。我們很難想像，但是在1995 年，這是那時候最精英的移動裝置。對吧？這不是一部 iPhone，也不是三星 Galaxy 手機。它是個掌上電腦。當我第一次看到掌上電腦時，我想，為什麼我們不能把那些表格放到掌上電腦上？然後去實地調查時就只帶著一個掌上電腦，可以容納成千上萬的紙質表單。我們為什麼不試著這樣做呢？因為如果我們能那麼做，我們實際上就可以電子化、數字化地收集數據，從一開始，我們就在整個過程中獲得了一個捷徑，就不用打字，不用讓人把那些數據輸入電腦裡了。我們可以直接進行分析，然後直接用那些數據去實際地挽救生命了。 所以那就是我開始做的事。在疾病預防控制中心工作時，我開始到全世界不同的部門並且培訓他們用掌上電腦收集數據，而不是用紙張。實際工作進展得很順利。它就像每個人預計得那樣運作良好。你知道嗎？電子數據收集實際上比用紙張收集高效很多。當我在做這件事的時候，我的生意夥伴，蘿絲，她和她的丈夫，馬修，就在觀眾席裡，蘿絲也去美國紅十字會做了同樣的事情。 問題是，在那幾年之後，我意識到我已經完成了——我可能已經去了6 個或 7 個組織，我覺得，你知道，如果再以這種速度繼續下去，我整個職業生涯，也許我要去也許 20 或 30 個組織。但問題是，20或30個組織，給 20 或 30 個組織培訓使用這種技術，這簡直就是杯水車薪。這種要讓數據更好運行的需求，僅僅是在健康領域，其他領域暫且不談，在發展中國家，這需求是巨大的。有成千上萬難以計數的組織，數以百萬的診所需要跟蹤藥品情況，數以百萬的疫苗組織。有很多學校需要紀錄出勤率。有各種各樣這樣不同的事情，並且我意識到，如果我繼續以我以前的方式，在我的職業生涯結束之前，我基本上很難做出什麼影響。 於是，我開動腦筋努力思考，我在做的過程是什麼樣的，我怎麼培訓人們，我遇到的瓶頸是什麼更快速、更有效的阻礙？我意識到——我確定了主要的阻礙。不幸的是，在思考這一段時間以後我意識到——我確定了主要的阻礙。這個主要的阻礙出現了，並且這個發現讓我很沮喪。這個主要的障礙就是我本人。 這是什麼意思呢？我已經開發了這樣一個過程我是這項技術的中心。如果您想要使用這項技術，你必須聯絡我。這意味著你必須知道我的存在。然後你不得不拿出錢來付給我飛到你的國家拿錢來支付我的旅館和我的每日支出和日常開銷。所以你可以說是 1 萬或 2 萬或 3 萬美元如果我真的有時間或著能把這件事提上日程而且我沒有在度假。這個問題的關鍵在於任何事，任何系統只要是依靠一兩個或三五個人，它就不會成規模。問題就是我們需要傳播這項技術，並且我們現在就需要擴大它的規模。 所以我開始想能讓我把自己脫離出來的方法。你知道，我在想，我如何把自己脫離出來？想了相當一段時間。你知道，我習慣於認為在國際發展中傳播科技總是基於諮詢顧問模式的。總是看起來有些像我一樣的人從一些像這裡的國家飛到有著深色皮膚人群的國家。你去到那些國家，你要花機票錢要花時間，在日常生活上還要花錢，花錢在旅館上，等等這些東西上。那時，據我所知，這是唯一傳播技術的方法，我想不出其他解決辦法。 但是奇蹟發生了，我把它簡稱為 Hotmail。現在你可能不覺得的 Hotmail 有多神奇，但對我來說那是個奇蹟，因為，正當我為解決這一問題而絞盡腦汁的時候，那時我大部分時間都在撒哈拉南部非洲工作。我注意到每個和我工作的撒哈拉南部非洲的健康事業工作者都使用 Hotmail 帳戶。我想，它啓發了我，等一下，我知道 Hotmail 公司的人肯定不會飛到肯亞健康部去培訓人們如何使用 Hotmail。所以這些人正在傳播技術。他們讓軟件應用能力傳播到那裡，但他們實際上並不在世界各地飛行。關於這個我需要多想想。當我正在想這個的時候，人們開始使用更多的東西，就像我們以前一樣。他們開始使用 LinkedIn 和 FlickrGmail 和谷歌地圖，所有這些事情。當然，所有這些東西都是基於雲端的不需要任何培訓。他們不需要任何的程式員。因為他們不需要任何顧問，因為所有這些企業的商業模式需要的東西簡單到我們可以自己使用它只要很少或根本不需要訓練。你只是聽說過它，然後登錄那個網站。 所以，如果我們開發軟體來做我的諮詢工作會發生什麼呢？我們不是培訓人們如何將表單放到移動裝置上，是創建可以讓他們自己做事的軟體不需培訓，也不需要我參與。而這正是我們所做的。 所以，我們創建了 Magpi 軟體它有一個在線表單創建者。不需要有人和我說話。你只需要聽說過它，然後登錄那個網站。您可以創建表單，一旦你創建了表單，你可以把他們推送到各種常見的手機上。很明顯的是，我們已經用移動電話取代了掌上電腦。它不需要是智慧型手機。它可以是非智慧型手機，就像右邊的這個一樣，你知道，這種非智慧型的塞班手機在發展中國家非常普遍。最精彩的部分是，它就像 Hotmail 一樣。它是基於雲端運算的，並不需要任何培訓，程式設計和顧問諮詢。 就像用掌上電腦一樣，最重要的一點是，現在我們知道，當我們建立了這個系統，就像用掌上電腦一樣，最重要的一點是你必須而且你能夠收集數據並立即上載數據以獲取您的數據庫。但是我們發現，當然，因為數據已經在電腦上了，我們可以提供即時圖像並且分析畫面。我們可以將一個需要花費兩年時間的過程壓縮到只要五分鐘的時間。令人難以置信的效率提升。基於雲端的，不需要培訓、 不需要顧問，不需要我。我告訴過你們，在最初的幾年中試圖用老方法做這個的時候，到每個國家去，我們達到了大約，我不確定，大概培訓了1000 人左右。在我們創建了軟體之後，發生了什麼事？在第二個三年中，有14000 人找到網站、 註冊，並開始使用它來收集數據，疾病反饋的數據，加拿大養豬業者用來跟蹤豬的疾病和豬飼料，人們跟蹤藥品供應。 我最喜歡的例子之一，IRC，國際救援委員會他們有一個程式，能讓半文盲的助產士用 10 美元的手機使用我們的軟體每週發送一次短消息匯報出生人數量和死亡數量，這給了全球救援委員會在全球健康組織前所未見的東西：一個近乎即時紀錄新生嬰兒數量的系統，知道多少孩子出生，知道兒童的數量，在塞拉里昂，人們正在使用它，並且知道有多少兒童死去。 人權組織的醫師——現在我們所說的有點超出了健康的領域——他們在收集，他們基本上是培訓人們做關於強姦的測驗，在剛果這是一種流行病，一個可怕的流行病，他們可以使用我們的軟體紀錄他們找到的證據，包括圖像上的，這樣，他們可以將犯罪者繩之以法。 Camfed，總部在英國的另一個慈善機構，Camfed，支付給女孩的家庭，好讓她們繼續上學。他們明白這是他們能做的最有意義的干預他們過去用紙張來跟蹤支出，出勤，成績。從一個老師寫下成績或出勤率然後大約兩至三年後得出報告。現在這是一個實時系統，並且因為這是如此低成本的系統，以雲計算為基礎，它的成本，對於 Camfed 資助的五個國家數以萬計的女孩子們，所有成本加起來每年只需要一萬美金。這比我以前出去做兩週諮詢的花費要少。 所以，我之前告訴過你當我們在用老式方法做的時候，我意識到，我們所有的工作加起來不過就是杯水車薪。只是10、 20、 30個不同的組織，我們已經取得了很大進展，但我承認現在，即使我們所做的工作有14000 人使用它，這仍是杯水車薪。但是已經發生了一些改變而且我認為它應該明顯。現在的改變是，我們過去用的低效率的方式已經被取代我們再也不用到需要我們的人那裡去，我們已經做到不需要有人來找我們了。我們創造了一種工具，可以讓程式可以讓孩子們留在學校，跟蹤嬰兒的出生和死亡數量，逮捕罪犯並成功起訴他們，來做這些不同的事情從而瞭解更多關於正在發生什麼，以便能瞭解更多，看得更多，來拯救生命和改善生活。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
