Talk	en	zh-tw
john_wilbanks_let_s_pool_our_medical_data	"So I have bad news, I have good news, and I have a task. So the bad news is that we all get sick. I get sick. You get sick. And every one of us gets sick, and the question really is, how sick do we get? Is it something that kills us? Is it something that we survive? Is it something that we can treat? And we've gotten sick as long as we've been people. And so we've always looked for reasons to explain why we get sick. And for a long time, it was the gods, right? The gods are angry with me, or the gods are testing me, right? Or God, singular, more recently, is punishing me or judging me. And as long as we've looked for explanations, we've wound up with something that gets closer and closer to science, which is hypotheses as to why we get sick, and as long as we've had hypotheses about why we get sick, we've tried to treat it as well. So this is Avicenna. He wrote a book over a thousand years ago called ""The Canon of Medicine,"" and the rules he laid out for testing medicines are actually really similar to the rules we have today, that the disease and the medicine must be the same strength, the medicine needs to be pure, and in the end we need to test it in people. And so if you put together these themes of a narrative or a hypothesis in human testing, right, you get some beautiful results, even when we didn't have very good technologies. This is a guy named Carlos Finlay. He had a hypothesis that was way outside the box for his time, in the late 1800s. He thought yellow fever was not transmitted by dirty clothing. He thought it was transmitted by mosquitos. And they laughed at him. For 20 years, they called this guy ""the mosquito man."" But he ran an experiment in people, right? He had this hypothesis, and he tested it in people. So he got volunteers to go move to Cuba and live in tents and be voluntarily infected with yellow fever. So some of the people in some of the tents had dirty clothes and some of the people were in tents that were full of mosquitos that had been exposed to yellow fever. And it definitively proved that it wasn't this magic dust called fomites in your clothes that caused yellow fever. But it wasn't until we tested it in people that we actually knew. And this is what those people signed up for. This is what it looked like to have yellow fever in Cuba at that time. You suffered in a tent, in the heat, alone, and you probably died. But people volunteered for this. And it's not just a cool example of a scientific design of experiment in theory. They also did this beautiful thing. They signed this document, and it's called an informed consent document. And informed consent is an idea that we should be very proud of as a society, right? It's something that separates us from the Nazis at Nuremberg, enforced medical experimentation. It's the idea that agreement to join a study without understanding isn't agreement. It's something that protects us from harm, from hucksters, from people that would try to hoodwink us into a clinical study that we don't understand, or that we don't agree to. And so you put together the thread of narrative hypothesis, experimentation in humans, and informed consent, and you get what we call clinical study, and it's how we do the vast majority of medical work. It doesn't really matter if you're in the north, the south, the east, the west. Clinical studies form the basis of how we investigate, so if we're going to look at a new drug, right, we test it in people, we draw blood, we do experiments, and we gain consent for that study, to make sure that we're not screwing people over as part of it. But the world is changing around the clinical study, which has been fairly well established for tens of years if not 50 to 100 years. So now we're able to gather data about our genomes, but, as we saw earlier, our genomes aren't dispositive. We're able to gather information about our environment. And more importantly, we're able to gather information about our choices, because it turns out that what we think of as our health is more like the interaction of our bodies, our genomes, our choices and our environment. And the clinical methods that we've got aren't very good at studying that because they are based on the idea of person-to-person interaction. You interact with your doctor and you get enrolled in the study. So this is my grandfather. I actually never met him, but he's holding my mom, and his genes are in me, right? His choices ran through to me. He was a smoker, like most people were. This is my son. So my grandfather's genes go all the way through to him, and my choices are going to affect his health. The technology between these two pictures cannot be more different, but the methodology for clinical studies has not radically changed over that time period. We just have better statistics. The way we gain informed consent was formed in large part after World War II, around the time that picture was taken. That was 70 years ago, and the way we gain informed consent, this tool that was created to protect us from harm, now creates silos. So the data that we collect for prostate cancer or for Alzheimer's trials goes into silos where it can only be used for prostate cancer or for Alzheimer's research. Right? It can't be networked. It can't be integrated. It cannot be used by people who aren't credentialed. So a physicist can't get access to it without filing paperwork. A computer scientist can't get access to it without filing paperwork. Computer scientists aren't patient. They don't file paperwork. And this is an accident. These are tools that we created to protect us from harm, but what they're doing is protecting us from innovation now. And that wasn't the goal. It wasn't the point. Right? It's a side effect, if you will, of a power we created to take us for good. And so if you think about it, the depressing thing is that Facebook would never make a change to something as important as an advertising algorithm with a sample size as small as a Phase III clinical trial. We cannot take the information from past trials and put them together to form statistically significant samples. And that sucks, right? So 45 percent of men develop cancer. Thirty-eight percent of women develop cancer. One in four men dies of cancer. One in five women dies of cancer, at least in the United States. And three out of the four drugs we give you if you get cancer fail. And this is personal to me. My sister is a cancer survivor. My mother-in-law is a cancer survivor. Cancer sucks. And when you have it, you don't have a lot of privacy in the hospital. You're naked the vast majority of the time. People you don't know come in and look at you and poke you and prod you, and when I tell cancer survivors that this tool we created to protect them is actually preventing their data from being used, especially when only three to four percent of people who have cancer ever even sign up for a clinical study, their reaction is not, ""Thank you, God, for protecting my privacy."" It's outrage that we have this information and we can't use it. And it's an accident. So the cost in blood and treasure of this is enormous. Two hundred and twenty-six billion a year is spent on cancer in the United States. Fifteen hundred people a day die in the United States. And it's getting worse. So the good news is that some things have changed, and the most important thing that's changed is that we can now measure ourselves in ways that used to be the dominion of the health system. So a lot of people talk about it as digital exhaust. I like to think of it as the dust that runs along behind my kid. We can reach back and grab that dust, and we can learn a lot about health from it, so if our choices are part of our health, what we eat is a really important aspect of our health. So you can do something very simple and basic and take a picture of your food, and if enough people do that, we can learn a lot about how our food affects our health. One interesting thing that came out of this — this is an app for iPhones called The Eatery — is that we think our pizza is significantly healthier than other people's pizza is. Okay? (Laughter) And it seems like a trivial result, but this is the sort of research that used to take the health system years and hundreds of thousands of dollars to accomplish. It was done in five months by a startup company of a couple of people. I don't have any financial interest in it. But more nontrivially, we can get our genotypes done, and although our genotypes aren't dispositive, they give us clues. So I could show you mine. It's just A's, T's, C's and G's. This is the interpretation of it. As you can see, I carry a 32 percent risk of prostate cancer, 22 percent risk of psoriasis and a 14 percent risk of Alzheimer's disease. So that means, if you're a geneticist, you're freaking out, going, ""Oh my God, you told everyone you carry the ApoE E4 allele. What's wrong with you?"" Right? When I got these results, I started talking to doctors, and they told me not to tell anyone, and my reaction is, ""Is that going to help anyone cure me when I get the disease?"" And no one could tell me yes. And I live in a web world where, when you share things, beautiful stuff happens, not bad stuff. So I started putting this in my slide decks, and I got even more obnoxious, and I went to my doctor, and I said, ""I'd like to actually get my bloodwork. Please give me back my data."" So this is my most recent bloodwork. As you can see, I have high cholesterol. I have particularly high bad cholesterol, and I have some bad liver numbers, but those are because we had a dinner party with a lot of good wine the night before we ran the test. (Laughter) Right. But look at how non-computable this information is. This is like the photograph of my granddad holding my mom from a data perspective, and I had to go into the system and get it out. So the thing that I'm proposing we do here is that we reach behind us and we grab the dust, that we reach into our bodies and we grab the genotype, and we reach into the medical system and we grab our records, and we use it to build something together, which is a commons. And there's been a lot of talk about commonses, right, here, there, everywhere, right. A commons is nothing more than a public good that we build out of private goods. We do it voluntarily, and we do it through standardized legal tools. We do it through standardized technologies. Right. That's all a commons is. It's something that we build together because we think it's important. And a commons of data is something that's really unique, because we make it from our own data. And although a lot of people like privacy as their methodology of control around data, and obsess around privacy, at least some of us really like to share as a form of control, and what's remarkable about digital commonses is you don't need a big percentage if your sample size is big enough to generate something massive and beautiful. So not that many programmers write free software, but we have the Apache web server. Not that many people who read Wikipedia edit, but it works. So as long as some people like to share as their form of control, we can build a commons, as long as we can get the information out. And in biology, the numbers are even better. So Vanderbilt ran a study asking people, we'd like to take your biosamples, your blood, and share them in a biobank, and only five percent of the people opted out. I'm from Tennessee. It's not the most science-positive state in the United States of America. (Laughter) But only five percent of the people wanted out. So people like to share, if you give them the opportunity and the choice. And the reason that I got obsessed with this, besides the obvious family aspects, is that I spend a lot of time around mathematicians, and mathematicians are drawn to places where there's a lot of data because they can use it to tease signals out of noise. And those correlations that they can tease out, they're not necessarily causal agents, but math, in this day and age, is like a giant set of power tools that we're leaving on the floor, not plugged in in health, while we use hand saws. If we have a lot of shared genotypes, and a lot of shared outcomes, and a lot of shared lifestyle choices, and a lot of shared environmental information, we can start to tease out the correlations between subtle variations in people, the choices they make and the health that they create as a result of those choices, and there's open-source infrastructure to do all of this. Sage Bionetworks is a nonprofit that's built a giant math system that's waiting for data, but there isn't any. So that's what I do. I've actually started what we think is the world's first fully digital, fully self-contributed, unlimited in scope, global in participation, ethically approved clinical research study where you contribute the data. So if you reach behind yourself and you grab the dust, if you reach into your body and grab your genome, if you reach into the medical system and somehow extract your medical record, you can actually go through an online informed consent process — because the donation to the commons must be voluntary and it must be informed — and you can actually upload your information and have it syndicated to the mathematicians who will do this sort of big data research, and the goal is to get 100,000 in the first year and a million in the first five years so that we have a statistically significant cohort that you can use to take smaller sample sizes from traditional research and map it against, so that you can use it to tease out those subtle correlations between the variations that make us unique and the kinds of health that we need to move forward as a society. And I've spent a lot of time around other commons. I've been around the early web. I've been around the early creative commons world, and there's four things that all of these share, which is, they're all really simple. And so if you were to go to the website and enroll in this study, you're not going to see something complicated. But it's not simplistic. These things are weak intentionally, right, because you can always add power and control to a system, but it's very difficult to remove those things if you put them in at the beginning, and so being simple doesn't mean being simplistic, and being weak doesn't mean weakness. Those are strengths in the system. And open doesn't mean that there's no money. Closed systems, corporations, make a lot of money on the open web, and they're one of the reasons why the open web lives is that corporations have a vested interest in the openness of the system. And so all of these things are part of the clinical study that we've created, so you can actually come in, all you have to be is 14 years old, willing to sign a contract that says I'm not going to be a jerk, basically, and you're in. You can start analyzing the data. You do have to solve a CAPTCHA as well. (Laughter) And if you'd like to build corporate structures on top of it, that's okay too. That's all in the consent, so if you don't like those terms, you don't come in. It's very much the design principles of a commons that we're trying to bring to health data. And the other thing about these systems is that it only takes a small number of really unreasonable people working together to create them. It didn't take that many people to make Wikipedia Wikipedia, or to keep it Wikipedia. And we're not supposed to be unreasonable in health, and so I hate this word ""patient."" I don't like being patient when systems are broken, and health care is broken. I'm not talking about the politics of health care, I'm talking about the way we scientifically approach health care. So I don't want to be patient. And the task I'm giving to you is to not be patient. So I'd like you to actually try, when you go home, to get your data. You'll be shocked and offended and, I would bet, outraged, at how hard it is to get it. But it's a challenge that I hope you'll take, and maybe you'll share it. Maybe you won't. If you don't have anyone in your family who's sick, maybe you wouldn't be unreasonable. But if you do, or if you've been sick, then maybe you would. And we're going to be able to do an experiment in the next several months that lets us know exactly how many unreasonable people are out there. So this is the Athena Breast Health Network. It's a study of 150,000 women in California, and they're going to return all the data to the participants of the study in a computable form, with one-clickability to load it into the study that I've put together. So we'll know exactly how many people are willing to be unreasonable. So what I'd end [with] is, the most beautiful thing I've learned since I quit my job almost a year ago to do this, is that it really doesn't take very many of us to achieve spectacular results. You just have to be willing to be unreasonable, and the risk we're running is not the risk those 14 men who got yellow fever ran. Right? It's to be naked, digitally, in public. So you know more about me and my health than I know about you. It's asymmetric now. And being naked and alone can be terrifying. But to be naked in a group, voluntarily, can be quite beautiful. And so it doesn't take all of us. It just takes all of some of us. Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天我有好消息和壞消息，我還有個任務。壞消息是我們都會生病。我會生病。你會生病。當有人生病時，真正的問題在於，我們病的多嚴重？有可能致命嗎？還是我們可以倖存？我們可以被醫治嗎？ 只要我們是人類，就會生病。於是我們總是在找為什麼會生病的原因。好一段時間以來，都是因為眾神，對吧？眾神對我感到惱怒，或者是眾神在測試我，對嗎？又或者是到較近期，唯一的，上帝，在懲罰我或審判我。只要我們一开始尋找解釋，就會愈來越接近科學，找到我們為什麼會生病的假設原因，只要我們有了為什麼會生病的假設原因，就會試圖治療。 這位是 Avicenna。一千多年前他寫了一本書叫《醫典》(""The Canon of Medicine"")，列出了測試藥物的規則，其實非常類似我們今日的規則，像是疾病和藥物具有同等強度、藥物必須質純、最後必須進行人體測試。若能將這些理想的假設狀況全部集合到人體試驗上，你會得到絕佳結果，就算當下並沒有非常先進的技術。 有個名叫 Carlos Finlay 的男人，提出了一個假設，對他所處的 19 世紀末來說，是相當先進的。他認為黃熱病不是藉由髒衣物傳染。他認為是透過蚊子傳染。眾人都取笑他。20 年來，人們稱他為「蚊子男」。但他進行了人體試驗，對吧？他提出一個假設，並對它進行人體測試。所以他找了一些自願者搬到古巴，住在帳篷裡，自願感染黃熱病。其中一些人的帳篷裡有髒衣服、而其他一些人的帳篷裡充滿著帶有黃熱病的蚊子。結果無疑地證明了，不是你衣物中被稱做汙染物的神秘灰塵，引發了黃熱病的傳染。但直到進行了人體試驗我們才真正確認這件事。這是那些人自願做的事。這是當時在古巴罹患黃熱病的樣子。在帳篷中受苦，發高燒，孤單一人，而且有可能會死。但這些人對此自告奮勇。 這並不僅是件根據理論操作的科學設計實驗範例，他們還做了一件了不起的事。他們簽署了這個文件，叫做《受試者同意書》。受試者同意書是我們社會應該感到自豪的概念，對不對？這是能將我們和在紐倫堡實行強制醫療實驗的納粹主義區隔開來的東西。這想法是同意參與研究，卻不瞭解研究內容的話，此協定就不成立。這可保護我們不受到傷害、不遭商人欺騙、或任何人哄騙而進行一件我們不了解或不同意的臨床研究。因此，如果你將各種假設條件集合起來，進行人體實驗、簽署受試者同意書，你就達到我們所說的臨床研究標準，這也是我們我們進行大量醫療研究的方式。不管你人在哪裡都無關。臨床研究構成我們研究的基礎，如果我們要看一種新藥物的效果，我們進行人體測試、抽血、進行實驗、取得此研究的受試者同意書，以確保過程中我們不會傷害任何人。 但是臨床研究的领域有了很大改變，就算它在過去數十年來，就算不到五十或者一百年，已經建立了完善的架構。我們現在可以蒐集基因組的資料，但是，如同我們剛才所見，我們的基因組是固定的。我們可蒐集周遭環境的資訊。更重要地，我們可以蒐集我們選擇的資訊，因為事實上我們的健康更像是我們的身體、基因組、我們的選擇、和環境間互動而來的結果。我們現有的臨床方法不是很適合研究，因為它們是以人和人的互動作為基礎。你和你的醫生互動、然後被登記到研究中。這是我的外公，事實上我從未見過他，但他抱著我媽，而且我身上流著他的基因，對吧？他的選擇流到我身上來。他吸菸，跟很多人一樣。這是我的兒子。所以我外公的基因流到他身上去，而我的選擇也將影響他的健康。這兩張照片所使用的科技相差甚大。但是在這段期間，臨床研究的方法並沒有什麼劇烈改變。我們只是有較好的統計資料。我們取得受試者同意書的方法大致是在二次世界大戰後形成，大約是那照片拍攝的時間。那是 70 年前，而我們取得受試者同意書的方法，這個保護我們不受到傷害的同意書，現在變成了資料貯存窖。我們為前列腺癌或阿茲海默症試驗所蒐集來的資料，被存放到只被用來研究前列腺癌症或阿茲海默症的資料貯存窖中。對吧？資料不能被分享。不能被連結。不能被無憑證的人使用。所以沒有申請許可的話，物理學家不能取得資訊。沒有申請許可的話，電腦科學家不能取得資訊。電腦科學家很沒耐心，他們不申請許可的。 這真是個意外。我們創造了這些工具來保護我們不受到傷害，但它們現在卻阻礙我們創新。這有違目的。因為那不是本來的意思。對吧？你可以想說，這是我們立意為善下所產生的副作用。當你這麼想時，令人沮喪的是臉書永遠不會為了第三階段臨床試驗裡這麼小的樣品數，來改變其廣告規則這樣重要的事。我們不能使用過去試驗的資訊建立具有顯著統計性的研究樣品數。 這感覺超差的，對不對？於是 45% 的男人會罹患癌症。38% 的女人會罹患癌症。四分之一的男人會因癌症而死。五分之一的女人會因癌症而死，至少就美國而言。在癌症試驗中，我們給你的四顆藥中，有三顆是無效的。我對這些都身有所感。我妹妹是癌症的倖存者。我的岳母是癌症的倖存者。癌症爛透了。當你罹患癌症時，你在醫院沒有什麼隱私權可言。大部分時間你赤身露體的。不認識的人會進來、看一下你、戳你、刺你，當我告訴癌症倖存者，我們設計來保護他們的工具，實際上是避免他們的個資被使用，尤其是在只有百分之三或四的癌症患者曾經參與過臨床研究的情況下，他們的反應不是，「天啊，謝謝你保護我的隱私。」而是憤怒，我們有這些資訊，但我們不能使用它。這真是令人意外。人們在這方面付出的生命和財產代價非常龐大。在美國，每年花費 2260 億在癌症上。在美國，每天有 1500 人死於癌症。而且每況愈下。 所以好消息是，有些事已經改變，而最重要的改變是現在我們可以自我測量用以前由醫療系統掌控的方式。很多人將此視為數位侵略。我則樂於視為跟在我孩子後面的塵埃。我們可以向後伸出手抓住一把，然後從中學習到很多健康訊息，所以如果我們的選擇會影響到我們的健康，我們所吃的食物就真的是我們健康的重要一環。你可以做一些非常簡單和基本的事情，像是拍一張你吃的食物的照片，若有足夠的人這麼做，我們就可以學習到很多有關食物如何影響我們健康的事情。從中可得出一件有趣的事 ─ 這是一個 iPhone 應用程式叫 The Eatery ─我們都以為我們吃的披薩會比其他人的更為健康。對嗎？(笑聲)這看起來像是個極微小的結果，但是以前醫療系統得花上好幾年和好幾十萬元才能完成的研究。這是由一家兩個人成立的新創公司在五個月內完成的。我對其中的財務狀況沒有興趣。 更重要的是，我們的基因型完成了，雖然我們的基因型不是不可處置的，它們給了我們線索。所以我可以給你們看我的。只有一些 A，T，C 和 G。這是翻譯。你可以看到，我有 32% 的機率罹患前列腺癌。我有 22% 的機率罹患牛皮癬和 14% 的機率罹患阿茲海默症。這代表的是，如果你是個基因學家，你會被嚇死，「天阿，你告訴每個人你有載脂蛋白E類等位基因。你是有什麼毛病啊？」是吧？當我拿到結果時，我開始詢問醫生，他們告訴我不要告訴任何人，我的反應是，「當我生病時，這有助於其他人治療我嗎？」沒有人可以跟我說對。而我住在一個網路的世界，當你分享事情時，美妙的事情發生了，不是壞事。所以我開始將這放入我的投影片檔中，而且我變得更令人討厭，我去找我的醫生，我說：「我想要確實拿到我的血液檢查結果，請還給我我的資料。」於是這是我最近的血液檢查報告。你可以告到，我有高膽固醇。我有特別高且不好的膽固醇，我有一些不好的肝臟指數，但這些是一位我們進行檢查的前一天晚上參加了晚宴且喝了很多好酒。(笑聲)好。再看看這個資訊是多麼難計算。這就像是我祖父抱著我媽的那張照片的數據呈現，所以我必須進入系統將它找出來。 於是我要在這建議我們做的事是我們向後方伸出手抓住塵埃我們進入我們的身體內找到基因型，我們進入醫療系統內找到我們的紀錄，我們一起將這些資料用來組合成一個公有物。已經有很多有關公有物的談論，這裡，那裡，到處都是。公有物就是我們用私人物打造出來的公有物。我們自願做這件事，而且透過標準化的合法工具。透過標準化的科技。是的。這就是一個公有物。是我們一起建立的東西，因為我們認為它很重要。 而且一個公有物的資料非常特別，因為我們用我們自己的資料來建立它。雖然很多人喜歡將保護隱私視為他們控制資料的方法，且非常著迷於隱私，至少我們當中有些人真的喜歡將分享視作一種控制的形式，而數位化公有物最值得注意的就是如果你的樣品數夠大，你不需要大數值的比率就可以產生大量且美好的結果。於是即使沒有很多程式設計師寫免費軟體，但我們有阿帕契 (Apache) 網頁伺服器。即使沒有很多讀維基百科的人進行編輯，但它仍在運作。所以只要有一些人喜歡將分享視作他們控制的形式，我們可以建造一個公有物，只要我們可以取得資訊。而在生物學中，數量代表得更好。於是 Vanderbilt 進行一項研究，問人們說，我們想要取你的生物樣品，你的血液，在生物銀行中進行分享，只有百分之五的人們選擇不要。我來自田納西州。並不是在美國最嚮往科學的一州。(笑聲)但只有百分之五的人選擇不要參加。所以如果你給人們機會和選擇的話，他們喜歡分享。 我會如此著迷的原因是，除了明顯的家庭因素之外，我花很多時間和數學家相處，數學家被吸引到很多數據的地方，因為他們使用數據在雜亂中歸類出信號。而他們可以整理出來的相互關係，並非必然的因果關係媒介，但在今日數學就像是我們丟棄在地板上的一大組有力的工具，我們仍然使用手鋸不將它跟健康結合。如果我們有很多被分享的基因型，很多被分享的結果，很多被分享的生活型式選擇，很多被分享的環境資訊，我們可以開始在細微的差異中整理出相互關係，在人跟人之間，他們做的選擇間，還有這些選擇造就的健康間，有一個開放資源的基礎建設在做這所有的事。賽智生物網絡 (Sage Bionetworks)是一個巨大數學系統的非營利組織，正在等待資料，但不多。 於是我這麼做。我開始進行我們認為世界上第一個完全數位化，完全自發性，沒有範圍限制，全球參與，合乎道德的臨床研究，由你們貢獻數據。所以如果你往身後抓到塵埃，如果你進入你的身體內找到基因組，如果你進入醫療系統內截取出你的醫療紀錄，你確實可通過線上的受試者同意書過程 —因為捐贈給公有物一定要出於自願，且一定要被告知 — 而且你可以上傳你的資訊，讓它被打包後傳輸到專門進行這種大規模數據研究的數學家那裡，我們的目標是第一年可以達到10萬人，第五年可以達到100萬人，這樣我們就會有一個具有統計學上顯著性差異的一个樣本。我们可以將傳統研究中的較小樣品數拿來跟它比較，找出使我們每個個體與眾不同的變量之間的細微關係以及我們整體社會朝著的健康方向之間。 我已經花了很多時間在其它公有物上。我在網絡初期就開始參與。我也經過早期有創意的公有物世界，當中有四個共同點，都非常簡單。如果你上這個網站也參加這項研究，你將不會看到很複雜的東西。但它也不是過分簡單的。這些是有意被做得較不充足的，因為你總是可以在一個系統內加上權力和控制，但是一旦你一開始就加入它們，之後要移除是非常困難的，於是簡單並不代表過分單純化，不充足並不代表缺點。這些是系統內的強項。 資源開放也不代表沒有收益。封閉的系統和企業在資源開放的網路上賺很多錢，它們是很多開放資源網路得以生存的原因之一，企業在系統開放性中取得既得利益。所以全部這些都是我們已經創造的臨床研究中的一部分，於是你真的可以加入，只要你已經滿 14 歲，願意簽署一份我將不會變成混蛋的合約，基本上你就成功了。你可以開始分析數據。你也必須要輸入驗證碼。 (笑聲)如果你想要在這之上建立企業架構，那也是可以的。這些都在同意書內，所以如果你不喜歡這些條款，你不會參與。我們用試著要帶入健康數據的公有物的設計規則大致如此。跟這些系統相關的另一件事是只需要一小群真的很不理性的人合作來創造它們。維基百科並不需要很多人來創造和維持。我們不應該在健康方面不理性，而且我討厭「忍受/病人」這個字 (patient)。當系統和醫療制度崩壞的時候，我不喜歡忍受/當病人。我不是在說醫療制度的政治，我在說我們科學上處理醫療制度的方法。所以我不要繼續忍受下去。我要給你們的任務是不要束手旁觀。我要你們真的去試試看，回到家後，蒐集你的資料。我保證你會因為資料有多難取得而感到驚訝且被冒犯。但我希望這是一個你會接受的挑戰，或許你還會分享。或許你不會。如果你家族中沒有任何人生病，或許你不會不理性。但如果有的話，或者你生病了，那你可能會。我們將能在接下來幾個月做一個實驗，讓我們知道世上究竟有多少不理性的人。這是雅典娜胸部健康網絡，這是在加州15萬名女人的研究，他們將歸還所有參與者在研究中的數據，用可計算得格式，只要按下一個按鍵就可以將它傳到我匯集而成的研究中。於是我們將發現究竟有多少人願意變得不理性。 我的結語是，自從我一年前辭職開始做這件事以來，當中最美妙的事是這真的不需要我們當中很多人才能達到引人注目的結果。你只需要願意不理性些，而我們會有的風險和以前這 14 個男人中誰會得到黃熱病的風險不同。對吧？這必須要在公開場合數位化地裸身。所以你知道我和我的健康比我知道你得還要多。現在是不對稱的。一個人裸身可以是非常嚇人的。但在一個團體內自願地裸身可以是非常美妙的。而且這不需要我們全部的人。只需要我們當中部分的人。謝謝。(掌聲)"
