Talk	en	zh-tw
john_hockenberry_we_are_all_designers	"I am no designer, nope, no way. My dad was, which is kind of an interesting way to grow up. I had to figure out what it is my dad did and why it was important. Dad talked a lot about bad design when we were growing up, you know, ""Bad design is just people not thinking, John,"" he would say whenever a kid would be injured by a rotary lawn mower or, say, a typewriter ribbon would get tangled or an eggbeater would get jammed in the kitchen. You know, ""Design — bad design, there's just no excuse for it. It's letting stuff happen without thinking about it. Every object should be about something, John. It should imagine a user. It should cast that user in a story starring the user and the object. Good design,"" my dad said, ""is about supplying intent."" That's what he said. Dad helped design the control panels for the IBM 360 computer. That was a big deal; that was important. He worked for Kodak for a while; that was important. He designed chairs and desks and other office equipment for Steelcase; that was important. I knew design was important in my house because, for heaven's sake, it put food on our table, right? And design was in everything my dad did. He had a Dixieland jazz band when we were growing up, and he would always cover Louis Armstrong tunes. And I would ask him every once in a while, ""Dad, do you want it to sound like the record?"" We had lots of old jazz records lying around the house. And he said, ""No, never, John, never. The song is just a given, that's how you have to think about it. You gotta make it your own. You gotta design it. Show everyone what you intend,"" is what he said. ""Doing that, acting by design, is what we all should be doing. It's where we all belong."" All of us? Designers? Oh, oh, Dad. Oh, Dad. The song is just a given. It's how you cover it that matters. Well, let's hold on to that thought for just a minute. It's kind of like this wheelchair I'm in, right? The original tune? It's a little scary. ""Ooh, what happened to that dude? He can't walk. Anybody know the story? Anybody?"" I don't like to talk about this very much, but I'll tell you guys the story today. All right, exactly 36 years ago this week, that's right, I was in a poorly designed automobile that hit a poorly designed guardrail on a poorly designed road in Pennsylvania, and plummeted down a 200-foot embankment and killed two people in the car. But ever since then, the wheelchair has been a given in my life. My life, at the mercy of good design and bad design. Think about it. Now, in design terms, a wheelchair is a very difficult object. It mostly projects tragedy and fear and misfortune, and it projects that message, that story, so strongly that it almost blots out anything else. I roll swiftly through an airport, right? And moms grab their kids out of the way and say, ""Don't stare!"" The poor kid, you know, has this terrified look on his face, God knows what they think. And for decades, I'm going, why does this happen? What can I do about it? How can I change this? I mean there must be something. So I would roll, I'd make no eye contact — just kinda frown, right? Or I'd dress up really, really sharply or something. Or I'd make eye contact with everyone — that was really creepy; that didn't work at all. (Laughter) You know anything, I'd try. I wouldn't shower for a week — nothing worked. Nothing whatsoever worked until a few years ago, my six-year-old daughters were looking at this wheelchair catalog that I had, and they said, ""Oh, Dad! Dad! Look, you gotta get these, these flashy wheels — you gotta get 'em!"" And I said, ""Oh, girls, Dad is a very important journalist, that just wouldn't do at all."" And of course, they immediately concluded, ""Oh, what a bummer, Dad. Journalists aren't allowed to have flashy wheels. I mean, how important could you be then?"" they said. I went, ""Wait a minute, all right, right — I'll get the wheels."" Purely out of protest, I got the flashy wheels, and I installed them and — check this out. Could I have my special light cue please? (Laughter) Look at that! Now ... look at, look at this! Look at this! So what you are looking at here has completely changed my life, I mean totally changed my life. Instead of blank stares and awkwardness, now it is pointing and smiling! People going, ""Awesome wheels, dude! Those are awesome! I mean, I want some of those wheels!"" Little kids say, ""Can I have a ride?"" (Laughter) And of course there's the occasional person — usually a middle-aged male who will say, ""Oh, those wheels are great! I guess they're for safety, right?"" (Laughter) No! They're not for safety. No, no, no, no, no. What's the difference here, the wheelchair with no lights and the wheelchair with lights? The difference is intent. That's right, that's right; I'm no longer a victim. I chose to change the situation — I'm the Commander of the Starship Wheelchair with the phaser wheels in the front. Right? Intent changes the picture completely. I choose to enhance this rolling experience with a simple design element. Acting with intent. It conveys authorship. It suggests that someone is driving. It's reassuring; people are drawn to it. Someone making the experience their own. Covering the tragic tune with something different, something radically different. People respond to that. Now it seems simple, but actually I think in our society and culture in general, we have a huge problem with intent. Now go with me here. Look at this guy. You know who this is? It's Anders Breivik. Now, if he intended to kill in Olso, Norway last year, dozens and dozens of young people — if he intended to do that, he's a vicious criminal. We punish him. Life in prison. Death penalty in the United States, not so much in Norway. But, if he instead acted out of a delusional fantasy, if he was motivated by some random mental illness, he's in a completely different category. We may put him away for life, but we watch him clinically. It's a completely different domain. As an intentional murderer, Anders Breivik is merely evil. But as a dysfunctional, as a dysfunctional murderer/psychotic, he's something much more complicated. He's the breath of some primitive, ancient chaos. He's the random state of nature we emerged from. He's something very, very different. It's as though intent is an essential component for humanity. It's what we're supposed to do somehow. We're supposed to act with intent. We're supposed to do things by design. Intent is a marker for civilization. Now here's an example a little closer to home: My family is all about intent. You can probably tell there are two sets of twins, the result of IVF technology, in vitro fertilization technology, due to some physical limitations I won't go into. Anyway, in vitro technology, IVF, is about as intentional as agriculture. Let me tell you, some of you may have the experience. In fact, the whole technology of sperm extraction for spinal cord-injured males was invented by a veterinarian. I met the dude. He's a great guy. He carried this big leather bag full of sperm probes for all of the animals that he'd worked with, all the different animals. Probes he designed, and in fact, he was really, really proud of these probes. He would say, ""You're right between horse and squirrel, John."" (Laughter) But anyway, so when my wife and I decided to upgrade our early middle age — we had four kids, after all — with a little different technology that I won't explain in too much detail here — my urologist assured me I had nothing whatsoever to worry about. ""No need for birth control, Doc, are you sure about that?"" ""John, John, I looked at your chart. From your sperm tests we can confidently say that you're basically a form of birth control."" Well! (Laughter) What a liberating thought! Yes! And after a couple very liberating weekends, my wife and I, utilizing some cutting-edge erectile technology that is certainly worthy of a TEDTalk someday but I won't get into it now, we noticed some familiar, if unexpected, symptoms. I wasn't exactly a form of birth control. Look at that font there. My wife was so pissed. I mean, did a designer come up with that? No, I don't think a designer did come up with that. In fact, maybe that's the problem. And so, little Ajax was born. He's like our other children, but the experience is completely different. It's something like my accident, right? He came out of nowhere. But we all had to change, but not just react to the given; we bend to this new experience with intent. We're five now. Five. Facing the given with intent. Doing things by design. Hey, the name Ajax — you can't get much more intentional than that, right? We're really hoping he thanks us for that later on. (Laughter) But I never became a designer. No, no, no, no. Never attempted. Never even close. I did love some great designs as I was growing up: The HP 35S calculator — God, I loved that thing. Oh God, I wish I had one. Man, I love that thing. I could afford that. Other designs I really couldn't afford, like the 1974 911 Targa. In school, I studied nothing close to design or engineering; I studied useless things like the Classics, but there were some lessons even there — this guy, Plato, it turns out he's a designer. He designed a state in ""The Republic,"" a design never implemented. Listen to one of the design features of Plato's Government 4.0: ""The State in which the rulers are most reluctant to govern is always the best and most quietly governed, and the State in which they are most eager, the worst."" Well, got that wrong, didn't we? But look at that statement; it's all about intent. That's what I love about it. But consider what Plato is doing here. What is he doing? It's a grand idea of design — a huge idea of design, common to all of the voices of religion and philosophy that emerged in the Classical period. What was going on then? They were trying to answer the question of what would human beings do now that they were no longer simply trying to survive? As the human race emerged from a prehistoric chaos, a confrontation with random, brutal nature, they suddenly had a moment to think — and there was a lot to think about. All of a sudden, human existence needed an intent. Human life needed a reason. Reality itself needed a designer. The given was replaced by various aspects of intent, by various designs, by various gods. Gods we're still fighting about. Oh yeah. Today we don't confront the chaos of nature. Today it is the chaos of humanity's impact on the Earth itself that we confront. This young discipline called design, I think, is in fact the emerging ethos formulating and then answering a very new question: What shall we do now in the face of the chaos that we have created? What shall we do? How shall we inscribe intent on all the objects we create, on all the circumstances we create, on all the places we change? The consequences of a planet with 7 billion people and counting. That's the tune we're all covering today, all of us. And we can't just imitate the past. No. That won't do. That won't do at all. Here's my favorite design moment: In the city of Kinshasa in Zaire in the 1990s, I was working for ABC News, and I was reporting on the fall of Mobutu Sese Seko, the dictator, the brutal dictator in Zaire, who raped and pillaged that country. There was rioting in the middle of Kinshasa. The place was falling apart; it was a horrible, horrible place, and I needed to go and explore the center of Kinshasa to report on the rioting and the looting. People were carrying off vehicles, carrying off pieces of buildings. Soldiers were in the streets shooting at looters and herding some in mass arrests. In the middle of this chaos, I'm rolling around in a wheelchair, and I was completely invisible. Completely. I was in a wheelchair; I didn't look like a looter. I was in a wheelchair; I didn't look like a journalist, particularly, at least from their perspective. And I didn't look like a soldier, that's for sure. I was part of this sort of background noise of the misery of Zaire, completely invisible. And all of a sudden, from around a corner, comes this young man, paralyzed, just like me, in this metal and wood and leather pedal, three-wheel tricycle-wheelchair device, and he pedals up to me as fast as he can. He goes, ""Hey, mister! Mister!"" And I looked at him — he didn't know any other English than that, but we didn't need English, no, no, no, no, no. We sat there and compared wheels and tires and spokes and tubes. And I looked at his whacky pedal mechanism; he was full of pride over his design. I wish I could show you that contraption. His smile, our glow as we talked a universal language of design, invisible to the chaos around us. His machine: homemade, bolted, rusty, comical. My machine: American-made, confident, sleek. He was particularly proud of the comfortable seat, really comfortable seat he had made in his chariot and its beautiful fabric fringe around the edge. Oh, I wish I'd had those sparkly wheels back then to have shown him, man! He would have loved those! Oh yeah. He would have understood those; a chariot of pure intent — think about it — in a city out of control. Design blew it all away for a moment. We spoke for a few minutes and then each of us vanished back into the chaos. He went back to the streets of Kinshasa; I went to my hotel. And I think of him now, now ... And I pose this question. An object imbued with intent — it has power, it's treasure, we're drawn to it. An object devoid of intent — it's random, it's imitative, it repels us. It's like a piece of junk mail to be thrown away. This is what we must demand of our lives, of our objects, of our things, of our circumstances: living with intent. And I have to say that on that score, I have a very unfair advantage over all of you. And I want to explain it to you now because this is a very special day. Thirty-six years ago at nearly this moment, a 19-year-old boy awoke from a coma to ask a nurse a question, but the nurse was already there with an answer. ""You've had a terrible accident, young man. You've broken your back. You'll never walk again."" I said, ""I know all that — what day is it?"" You see, I knew that the car had gone over the guardrail on the 28th of February, and I knew that 1976 was a leap year. ""Nurse! Is this the 28th or the 29th?"" And she looked at me and said, ""It's March 1st."" And I went, ""Oh my God. I've got some catching up to do!"" And from that moment, I knew the given was that accident; I had no option but to make up this new life without walking. Intent — a life with intent — lived by design, covering the original with something better. It's something for all of us to do or find a way to do in these times. To get back to this, to get back to design, and as my daddy suggested a long time ago, ""Make the song your own, John. Show everybody what you intend."" Daddy, this one's for you. (Music) ♫ Jo Jo was a man who thought he was a loner ♫ ♫ but he was another man. ♫ ♫ Jo Jo left his home in Tucson, Arizona to attend a California bash. ♫ ♫ Get back, get back, ♫ ♫ get back to where you once belonged. ♫ ♫ Get back, get back, ♫ ♫ get back to where you once belonged. ♫ (Applause)"	"我不是設計師，不，絕不不過我的爸爸是也因此我的成長的過程挺有趣的我需要了解我爸爸做的東西到底是什麼和其重要性何在 從小到大我們聽父親說了很設計不良的東西他總是說：約翰人不去動腦筋才有糟糕的設計啊當有小孩被旋轉式割草機弄受傷時或打字機的色帶卡住或廚房的打蛋機卡住時 糟糕的設計是沒有藉口的這是不經思考的結果每樣物品都應當有它的意義啊它應當跟使用者相關以使用者和物品為主角的故事 我爸說：好的設計展現目的性他是這麼說的 父親幫忙設計IBM 360電腦的控制面板很了不起，也很重要他也在柯達工作一陣子，也很重要他幫Steelcase設計椅子、書桌和其他的辦公設備，很重要我早就知道設計的重要因為那是我家的經濟來源 我父親做得每件事都攸關設計他在我們小時候組了一個爵士樂團他總是詮釋Louis Armstrong的歌而我三不五時就會去問我爸 ""爸，你要它聽起來跟唱片一樣嗎？""我們家擺了很多老舊的爵士樂唱片而他總是說：""不，約翰，絕對不要你應該想，歌是既有、給予的你要讓它有你的風格，你要設計它讓所有的人看到你的目的讓一舉一動都出於設計是我們都應當做的事情這就是我們的歸宿"" 我們所有人嗎？我們都是設計師？喔，爸。喔，爸 歌曲是已經存在的如何去詮釋才是重點讓我們思考一下剛剛說的這有點像我現在坐的輪椅，對吧？原始故事？有點可怕 ""喔！那老兄怎麼了？他不能走路。有誰知道為什麼嗎？有人知道嗎？"" 我不是很喜歡說這個故事但我今天會告訴你們正是36年前的這個星期我在一部設計不良的車子裡撞上了設計不良的護欄在設計不良的賓州道路上從200英呎高的築堤跌了下去車上兩人因此罹難自那時起，輪椅成為我生命的一部分我的生命，任由好和壞設計所主宰 這樣想吧，用設計的術語來說輪椅是一件很難設計的物品它通常投射出悲劇、恐懼和不幸的感覺而這個訊息是如此強烈蓋過其它的觀感 我在機場裡恣意的坐輪椅行動母親們會把小孩抓離我的面前並說：""不要瞪著他看""可憐的孩子，臉上流露出驚恐的表情不知他在想什麼幾十年來我一直想發生了什麼事？我能做什麼？我一定能做些什麼來改變這樣的事所以我滑輪椅時試著不看別人低頭皺眉之類的或我會精心打扮整齊或我會與所有人四目交接這方法有點詭異，一點都沒用（笑聲）我試過所有方法了甚至一個禮拜不洗澡 但都沒用，直到幾年前我六歲的女兒們看到我的輪椅目錄，她們說： ""爸！你看！你一定要買這種輪子會發光的輪椅！"" 而我說：""孩子們，我是位很有份量的記者這跟我身份不符"" 當然，她們馬上說： ""爸，好可惜喔，你不被允許有發光的輪子那你怎麼還能算有份量的記者呢？"" 為了反駁她們我說：""等等，好啦，我會買這種"" 我買了這台輪椅，裝上發光輪子然後，你看看可以把燈光暗下來嗎（笑聲）你看！然後，你在看！ 你眼前看到的完全改變我的生活徹底的改變以前我面對的是呆滯的眼神和尷尬現在是指指點點和微笑 人們說：老兄，這輪子超讚的我也要有這種輪子！小孩說：我可以坐坐看嗎？（笑聲） 當然有時候有些人通常是中年男子，會說：""喔！這輪子看起來超棒！是有安全警示的作用對吧？""（笑聲）不！它們不是安全警示錯了錯了 所以這兩者的差別沒有發亮輪子的輪椅和有發亮輪子的輪椅差別在於設計目的沒錯！這讓我不再是受難者我決定改變現狀，我是星光輪椅艇的艦長前有閃亮的輪子設計目的徹底改變輪椅給人的感受我選擇改善坐輪椅的經驗透過簡單的設計元素行出它的設計目的它展現自主性表示我是駕駛它讓人心安，吸引人讓他們有不同的感受掩蓋原本的悲劇觀感而給人不同極度不同的感受人們會對此有所回應 看似簡單，但我認為在我們的文化和社會中我們在設計目的這部分有很大的問題聽我說，這個人，你知道他是誰嗎？他是前陣子的挪威殺人魔如果他去年在挪威奧斯陸意圖殺死許多年輕人如果這是他的意圖他是個兇殘的兇手，我們會制裁他判終生監禁不像美國，挪威沒有死刑但如果這是患妄想症下的行為如果他是因為患了精神疾病才這樣做這就完全不同了我們也許會將他終生隔離但我們會對它醫療監控與刑罰完全不同如果他是是意圖殺人犯Anders Breivik是個極度兇殘的人但如果他患有精神疾病是個精神患者殺人犯那這件事就更複雜了他是某種原始、古老混亂的產物他的內在性格十分混亂不像我們能控制本能他是非常特殊的人 目的性是人性中非常重要的一環我們都必須根據其而做出反應我們必須根據目的而行事我們也必須根據設計而行事目的性是文明的里程碑 這是從我家舉的一個例子我家人做什麼都與目的相關你可以看得出來這裡有兩對雙胞胎是試管受精科技的產物是因為我個人的身體限制細節就不說了總之試管受精其目的跟農業差不多你也許也有這樣的經驗事實上，從脊椎受傷的男子身上抽取精子的技術是由一位獸醫發明的我有見過這位老兄，是個很棒的人他攜帶著一個大皮袋裡頭充滿從種動物身上抽取精子的用具這些用具是他設計的他也非常引以為傲 他會說：沒錯，馬跟松鼠基本上的用具都一樣（笑聲）總之，當我妻子和我決定要讓我們中年生活更有品質畢竟我們已經有四個小孩了我們試了一種新的技術細節我想我也不需要多談我的泌尿科醫師說我什麼都不用擔心 ""醫生，你確定我不需要避孕嗎?"" ""約翰，我看了你的病例由你精子的檢測結果我們可以很有信心的說你的基本上可以自體避孕"" 是嗎！（笑聲）多麼令人鬆口氣的想法呀！太好了！過了幾個快活的週末我太太和我使用了某些先進的勃起技術這技術某天一定有成為TEDTalk主題的價值但我今天沒辦法說我們發現某些似曾相似意料之外的徵象我並沒有自體避孕的功能你看那個字，我太太氣壞了 我是說，這是設計師想出來的嗎？不，我不認為這是設計師的主意事實上，也許這才是問題所在因此，小Ajax誕生了他就像我們其他的小孩但整個過程完全不同這像是意外事件，對吧？他莫名其妙就來了但我們都需要改變不要根據既成的事而反應我們要讓新的經驗充滿目的性我們現在有五個小孩了將目的置入已給予的事物依據設計行事他的名字Ajax（各種技術混合體的意思）充滿目的和意圖對吧我們真希望他以後會感謝我們（笑聲） 但我從未成為設計師從沒試過，本行也離設計師很遠但我的確成長過程中喜歡一些好的設計：我超愛HP 35S計算機老天，我多麼希望也有一台超愛這玩意兒的這是我買得起的其它我買不起的設計是1974年的保時捷911 Targa我的教育背景離設計和工程學很遠我學得是沒用的東西像是經典文學但我還是有學到一些知識這老兄，柏拉圖原來也是設計師他設計一種叫「理想國」的狀態是一種從未被施行的設計聽聽他設計的的一項特色柏拉圖之政府4.0： ""當一個國家的統領者不願去統治時是最理想跟最祥和的統治狀態而當統治者野心勃勃時，國家狀態最慘"" 我們現在都做錯了，對吧？但你看，這句話都與目的相關這就是我愛它的地方讓我們想想柏拉圖試圖要做什麼這是個有宏大想法的設計與大部分的宗教和哲學相似從經典時期誕生那時發生了什麼事呢？他們試圖解答這個問題人類若生活不只是單單為了求生存該做些什麼當人類過了史前混亂期後與隨機、兇殘的的內在產生了衝突人們開始思考而有太說事情需要思考了突然間，人類的存在需要目的性人生在世是需要原因的現實世界需要一位設計師原本被賦予的被各類不同的目的所取代被設計取代或被神明取代是的，我們仍然與神爭戰 如今我們不須面對混亂的內在我們如今面對的混亂是人類對自然的影響我認為，設計這個新興的領域是新興的社會精神組成並回答了一個新問題：我們現在應該怎麼做當我們面臨我們所創造的亂象我們該怎麼做？我們如何將目的性置入我們創造的所有物品不管在任何我們造成的情況或我們所改變的地點？70億甚至更多人口對地球所造成的後果是我們全部人現今都必須面對的問題而我們無法效仿過去不，這是無法解決問題的一點都沒有辦法 這就是我最愛的設計時機：在1990年代薩伊的金夏沙城我任職於ABC新聞台正在報導Mobutu Sese Seko的垮台他是薩依殘暴的獨裁者他掠奪洗劫了薩伊當時在金夏沙城中有場暴動那城市正在瓦解，情況很糟糕而我必須前往並探查金夏沙城中心以報導那場暴動與掠奪那裡的人因車輛或建築物碎片而喪命士兵在街道上射擊搶匪並逮捕許多人在這場動亂中，我坐著輪椅四處移動而我就像隱形似的不受注意我坐在輪椅上，我並不像搶匪我坐輪椅，也太不像記者至少從他們的觀點而言而我當然也不像士兵我在薩伊這場不幸的事件中像背景一樣完全隱形而突然之間，從某個角落出現一個像我一樣癱瘓的年輕人在由金屬、木頭和皮革所做成一種有踏板的三輪輪椅裝置他極快速的踩著踏板到我面前 他說：嘿！先生！先生！ 而我看著他他除了這句外不會講其他的英文但我們也不需要英文我們坐在那比較輪子、輪胎、輪輻和內胎而我看著這怪異的踏板裝置那年輕人對這項設計十分驕傲我真希望我能給你看看那玩意兒他的笑容，我們散發的光采當我們用全球共通的語言溝通也就是設計讓我們無視周邊的混亂他的機器：自製、粗糙、生鏽又古怪我的機器：美國製造、自信、時髦他對他舒服的座椅感到非常自豪是他為這座駕親自打造美麗的布製流蘇點綴著邊緣喔！我當時多希望我有發光的輪子可以秀給他看他一定會很喜歡這個他一定會了解一台專為目的而打造的座駕你想想在這失去控制的城市設計讓這一切暫時消失我們聊了一下子然後各自隱身回到那場動亂中他回到金夏沙城的街道我回到我的旅館而我現在想到他 現在，我提出這個問題一項充滿目的性的物品它是很有能力的很寶貴，我們都被吸引一項沒有目的性的物品它是隨機、學人家的他讓我們感到厭惡像是被我們丟棄的垃圾信件這是我們生命中必須要求的不論是物品、我們的事物、環境都要活在目的中而我必須說講到這，我有一項比你們都還要好的優點 我現在想向你們解釋因為這是很特別的一天大約36年前的這個時刻一位19歲的男孩從昏迷中醒來問了護士一個問題但那護士早已在那預備好回答 ""年輕人，你遇上一場不幸的意外你的脊椎斷了你從此以後都不能走路了"" 我說：""我知道—今天是幾日?""我當時知道我的車在2月28日衝出了護欄而我知道1976年是閏年 ""護士! 今天是28還是29日?"" 而她看著我說""今天是3月1號"" 而我說：""我的天啊我必須趕緊跟上進度""從那刻起，我知道那場意外是被給予的我沒有選擇只能讓我不能走路的新生命更好目的一個有目的的生命活在設計中用更好的事物掩蓋原始的狀態我們在這種狀況中都必須設法這麼做 回到這裡回到設計就像我父親很久以前建議的 ""約翰，讓這首歌充滿你的風格吧讓大家看到你的目的是什麼"" 爸這是為你而演奏的（音樂） ♫ Jo Jo認為自己是個孤單的人 ♫♫ 但他其實不是 ♫♫ Jo Jo離開亞利桑那的土桑市去加州參加一場聚會 ♫♫ 回去吧，回去吧 ♫♫ 回到曾經屬於你的地方 ♫♫ 回去吧，回去吧 ♫♫ 回到曾經屬於你的地方 ♫（掌聲）"
