Talk	en	zh-tw
john_searle_our_shared_condition_consciousness	"I'm going to talk about consciousness. Why consciousness? Well, it's a curiously neglected subject, both in our scientific and our philosophical culture. Now why is that curious? Well, it is the most important aspect of our lives for a very simple, logical reason, namely, it's a necessary condition on anything being important in our lives that we're conscious. You care about science, philosophy, music, art, whatever — it's no good if you're a zombie or in a coma, right? So consciousness is number one. The second reason is that when people do get interested in it, as I think they should, they tend to say the most appalling things. And then, even when they're not saying appalling things and they're really trying to do serious research, well, it's been slow. Progress has been slow. When I first got interested in this, I thought, well, it's a straightforward problem in biology. Let's get these brain stabbers to get busy and figure out how it works in the brain. So I went over to UCSF and I talked to all the heavy-duty neurobiologists there, and they showed some impatience, as scientists often do when you ask them embarrassing questions. But the thing that struck me is, one guy said in exasperation, a very famous neurobiologist, he said, ""Look, in my discipline it's okay to be interested in consciousness, but get tenure first. Get tenure first."" Now I've been working on this for a long time. I think now you might actually get tenure by working on consciousness. If so, that's a real step forward. Okay, now why then is this curious reluctance and curious hostility to consciousness? Well, I think it's a combination of two features of our intellectual culture that like to think they're opposing each other but in fact they share a common set of assumptions. One feature is the tradition of religious dualism: Consciousness is not a part of the physical world. It's a part of the spiritual world. It belongs to the soul, and the soul is not a part of the physical world. That's the tradition of God, the soul and immortality. There's another tradition that thinks it's opposed to this but accepts the worst assumption. That tradition thinks that we are heavy-duty scientific materialists: Consciousness is not a part of the physical world. Either it doesn't exist at all, or it's something else, a computer program or some damn fool thing, but in any case it's not part of science. And I used to get in an argument that really gave me a stomachache. Here's how it went. Science is objective, consciousness is subjective, therefore there cannot be a science of consciousness. Okay, so these twin traditions are paralyzing us. It's very hard to get out of these twin traditions. And I have only one real message in this lecture, and that is, consciousness is a biological phenomenon like photosynthesis, digestion, mitosis — you know all the biological phenomena — and once you accept that, most, though not all, of the hard problems about consciousness simply evaporate. And I'm going to go through some of them. Okay, now I promised you to tell you some of the outrageous things said about consciousness. One: Consciousness does not exist. It's an illusion, like sunsets. Science has shown sunsets and rainbows are illusions. So consciousness is an illusion. Two: Well, maybe it exists, but it's really something else. It's a computer program running in the brain. Three: No, the only thing that exists is really behavior. It's embarrassing how influential behaviorism was, but I'll get back to that. And four: Maybe consciousness exists, but it can't make any difference to the world. How could spirituality move anything? Now, whenever somebody tells me that, I think, you want to see spirituality move something? Watch. I decide consciously to raise my arm, and the damn thing goes up. (Laughter) Furthermore, notice this: We do not say, ""Well, it's a bit like the weather in Geneva. Some days it goes up and some days it doesn't go up."" No. It goes up whenever I damn well want it to. Okay. I'm going to tell you how that's possible. Now, I haven't yet given you a definition. You can't do this if you don't give a definition. People always say consciousness is very hard to define. I think it's rather easy to define if you're not trying to give a scientific definition. We're not ready for a scientific definition, but here's a common-sense definition. Consciousness consists of all those states of feeling or sentience or awareness. It begins in the morning when you wake up from a dreamless sleep, and it goes on all day until you fall asleep or die or otherwise become unconscious. Dreams are a form of consciousness on this definition. Now, that's the common-sense definition. That's our target. If you're not talking about that, you're not talking about consciousness. But they think, ""Well, if that's it, that's an awful problem. How can such a thing exist as part of the real world?"" And this, if you've ever had a philosophy course, this is known as the famous mind-body problem. I think that has a simple solution too. I'm going to give it to you. And here it is: All of our conscious states, without exception, are caused by lower-level neurobiological processes in the brain, and they are realized in the brain as higher-level or system features. It's about as mysterious as the liquidity of water. Right? The liquidity is not an extra juice squirted out by the H2O molecules. It's a condition that the system is in. And just as the jar full of water can go from liquid to solid depending on the behavior of the molecules, so your brain can go from a state of being conscious to a state of being unconscious, depending on the behavior of the molecules. The famous mind-body problem is that simple. All right? But now we get into some harder questions. Let's specify the exact features of consciousness, so that we can then answer those four objections that I made to it. Well, the first feature is, it's real and irreducible. You can't get rid of it. You see, the distinction between reality and illusion is the distinction between how things consciously seem to us and how they really are. It consciously seems like there's — I like the French ""arc-en-ciel"" — it seems like there's an arch in the sky, or it seems like the sun is setting over the mountains. It consciously seems to us, but that's not really happening. But for that distinction between how things consciously seem and how they really are, you can't make that distinction for the very existence of consciousness, because where the very existence of consciousness is concerned, if it consciously seems to you that you are conscious, you are conscious. I mean, if a bunch of experts come to me and say, ""We are heavy-duty neurobiologists and we've done a study of you, Searle, and we're convinced you are not conscious, you are a very cleverly constructed robot,"" I don't think, ""Well, maybe these guys are right, you know?"" I don't think that for a moment, because, I mean, Descartes may have made a lot of mistakes, but he was right about this. You cannot doubt the existence of your own consciousness. Okay, that's the first feature of consciousness. It's real and irreducible. You cannot get rid of it by showing that it's an illusion in a way that you can with other standard illusions. Okay, the second feature is this one that has been such a source of trouble to us, and that is, all of our conscious states have this qualitative character to them. There's something that it feels like to drink beer which is not what it feels like to do your income tax or listen to music, and this qualitative feel automatically generates a third feature, namely, conscious states are by definition subjective in the sense that they only exist as experienced by some human or animal subject, some self that experiences them. Maybe we'll be able to build a conscious machine. Since we don't know how our brains do it, we're not in a position, so far, to build a conscious machine. Okay. Another feature of consciousness is that it comes in unified conscious fields. So I don't just have the sight of the people in front of me and the sound of my voice and the weight of my shoes against the floor, but they occur to me as part of one single great conscious field that stretches forward and backward. That is the key to understanding the enormous power of consciousness. And we have not been able to do that in a robot. The disappointment of robotics derives from the fact that we don't know how to make a conscious robot, so we don't have a machine that can do this kind of thing. Okay, the next feature of consciousness, after this marvelous unified conscious field, is that it functions causally in our behavior. I gave you a scientific demonstration by raising my hand, but how is that possible? How can it be that this thought in my brain can move material objects? Well, I'll tell you the answer. I mean, we don't know the detailed answer, but we know the basic part of the answer, and that is, there is a sequence of neuron firings, and they terminate where the acetylcholine is secreted at the axon end-plates of the motor neurons. Sorry to use philosophical terminology here, but when it's secreted at the axon end-plates of the motor neurons, a whole lot of wonderful things happen in the ion channels and the damned arm goes up. Now, think of what I told you. One and the same event, my conscious decision to raise my arm has a level of description where it has all of these touchy-feely spiritual qualities. It's a thought in my brain, but at the same time, it's busy secreting acetylcholine and doing all sorts of other things as it makes its way from the motor cortex down through the nerve fibers in the arm. Now, what that tells us is that our traditional vocabularies for discussing these issues are totally obsolete. One and the same event has a level of description where it's neurobiological, and another level of description where it's mental, and that's a single event, and that's how nature works. That's how it's possible for consciousness to function causally. Okay, now with that in mind, with going through these various features of consciousness, let's go back and answer some of those early objections. Well, the first one I said was, consciousness doesn't exist, it's an illusion. Well, I've already answered that. I don't think we need to worry about that. But the second one had an incredible influence, and may still be around, and that is, ""Well, if consciousness exists, it's really something else. It's really a digital computer program running in your brain and that's what we need to do to create consciousness is get the right program. Yeah, forget about the hardware. Any hardware will do provided it's rich enough and stable enough to carry the program."" Now, we know that that's wrong. I mean, anybody who's thought about computers at all can see that that's wrong, because computation is defined as symbol manipulation, usually thought of as zeros as ones, but any symbols will do. You get an algorithm that you can program in a binary code, and that's the defining trait of the computer program. But we know that that's purely syntactical. That's symbolic. We know that actual human consciousness has something more than that. It's got a content in addition to the syntax. It's got a semantics. Now that argument, I made that argument 30 — oh my God, I don't want to think about it — more than 30 years ago, but there's a deeper argument implicit in what I've told you, and I want to tell you that argument briefly, and that is, consciousness creates an observer-independent reality. It creates a reality of money, property, government, marriage, CERN conferences, cocktail parties and summer vacations, and all of those are creations of consciousness. Their existence is observer-relative. It's only relative to conscious agents that a piece of paper is money or that a bunch of buildings is a university. Now, ask yourself about computation. Is that absolute, like force and mass and gravitational attraction? Or is it observer-relative? Well, some computations are intrinsic. I add two plus two to get four. That's going on no matter what anybody thinks. But when I haul out my pocket calculator and do the calculation, the only intrinsic phenomenon is the electronic circuit and its behavior. That's the only absolute phenomenon. All the rest is interpreted by us. Computation only exists relative to consciousness. Either a conscious agent is carrying out the computation, or he's got a piece of machinery that admits of a computational interpretation. Now that doesn't mean computation is arbitrary. I spent a lot of money on this hardware. But we have this persistent confusion between objectivity and subjectivity as features of reality and objectivity and subjectivity as features of claims. And the bottom line of this part of my talk is this: You can have a completely objective science, a science where you make objectively true claims, about a domain whose existence is subjective, whose existence is in the human brain consisting of subjective states of sentience or feeling or awareness. So the objection that you can't have an objective science of consciousness because it's subjective and science is objective, that's a pun. That's a bad pun on objectivity and subjectivity. You can make objective claims about a domain that is subjective in its mode of existence, and indeed that's what neurologists do. I mean, you have patients that actually suffer pains, and you try to get an objective science of that. Okay, I promised to refute all these guys, and I don't have an awful lot of time left, but let me refute a couple more of them. I said that behaviorism ought to be one of the great embarrassments of our intellectual culture, because it's refuted the moment you think about it. Your mental states are identical with your behavior? Well, think about the distinction between feeling a pain and engaging in pain behavior. I won't demonstrate pain behavior, but I can tell you I'm not having any pains right now. So it's an obvious mistake. Why did they make the mistake? The mistake was — and you can go back and read the literature on this, you can see this over and over — they think if you accept the irreducible existence of consciousness, you're giving up on science. You're giving up on 300 years of human progress and human hope and all the rest of it. And the message I want to leave you with is, consciousness has to become accepted as a genuine biological phenomenon, as much subject to scientific analysis as any other phenomenon in biology, or, for that matter, the rest of science. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我要和各位談談意識，為什麼是意識呢？嗯，說也奇怪，這是一個被忽略的學科，不管是在科學還是在哲學領域中，為什麼這麼奇怪？嗯，意識對生命有重要的意義，原因簡單又合理，也就是說，在生命中的所有重要事情上，擁有意識是必要的狀態。你關心科學、哲學、音樂、美術等，但是如果你是殭屍或植物人，就不太好了吧？因此意識是最重要的。第二個原因是，當人們對它感興趣時，如同我說的，他們應該要有興趣，他們傾向說最可怕的事。然後，即使他們不說可怕的事，他們還真的會試著認真做研究，嗯，有點慢，進展得有點慢。我剛開始對這個議題感興趣時，我想，嗯，這是一條關於生物學的簡單問題。我們可以拿些開腦的椎子，來看看意識怎麼在腦袋裡運作。因此，我去了加州大學舊金山分校 (UCSF)，和那裡所有重量級的神經生物學家討論，他們顯得有點不耐煩，就像當你問科學家讓他難堪的問題時的模樣。但是讓我驚訝的是，有一位老兄腦羞成怒地說，他是很有名的神經生物學家，他說：「你聽好，在我這一行你可以對意識有興趣，但你要先取得終身教授職位才行。先取得終身教授職！」我做這個研究很久了，我想藉由做點意識研究，也許你也可以成為終身教授了，如果這樣的話，那還真是前進了一大步。好吧，那為什麼意識總會奇怪地不被重視或反對？嗯，我認為這是人類智力文化的兩大特點，那就是愛說自己和對方持相反看法，但是事實上，他們有同樣的假設。第一個特點是宗教二元論的傳統思維：意識不屬於物質世界，意識是精神世界的一部分。它屬於靈魂，而靈魂不是物質世界的一部分。這是上帝、靈魂和不滅的傳統思維。另外有一項傳統思維和這個觀點完全相反，而且選擇了最差的假設。那個傳統思維認為我們都是背負著重大責任的科學唯物主義者：意識並不是物質世界的一部分。它要嘛根本就不存在，不然就是別種東西，一個電腦程式或是某種該死的蠢東西，但絕不會是科學的一部分。我常會爭論到胃很痛。結果是這樣。科學是客觀的，而意識是主觀的。因此不可能有一種叫意識的科學。好吧，這兩個雙胞傳統思維讓我們動彈不得。很難跳脫這兩個傳統雙胞胎。這堂課我只有一句真正的訊息要傳達，那就是，意識是一種生命現象，就像光合作用、消化作用、細胞有絲分裂，你知道所有的生命現象，一旦你接受了，大部分，雖然不是全部，關於意識的難題就會消失無蹤了。接下來我會再多做解釋。我之前承諾要告訴你一些跟意識有關的荒謬論點。第一：意識是不存在的。那是錯覺，就像夕陽，科學證明夕陽和彩虹都是錯覺，如此看來意識也是一種錯覺。第二：好吧，也許它存在，但那真的是別的東西，那是在腦袋裡運轉的電腦程式。第三：不對，行為動作才是真正唯一存在的東西。行為主義的影響力如此深遠，真讓人尷尬，我們稍後再討論。第四：也許意識存在，但是它不能為世界帶來任何改變。精神怎麼可能移動得了東西？現在只要有人這樣問我，我會想，你想看我用精神移動東西嗎？你看好。我決定有意識地要舉起我的手臂，然後這該死的東西就舉起來了。(笑聲）還有，給我仔細聽好，我們不會說：「嗯，這有點像日內瓦的天氣，有時候它會舉起來，有時候不會。」不會！只要我想讓它舉起來，它就會舉起來！那麼，讓我來跟你說這是怎麼辦到的。我還沒給你一個定義，如果沒有下定義的話，無法跟你解釋。人們總是說意識很難定義，我倒覺得容易，只要你不去試著用科學的角度來定義它。我們還沒準備好要用科學來定義，但是我們可以用常識來定義。意識包含了所有感覺、知覺或覺察的狀態。當你一夜好眠後醒來，它一早就會開始出現，直到你再度熟睡，或是死亡，或是失去知覺。在這個定義中，夢是意識的一種形式。這就是常識性的定義，這是我們的目標。如果你不談論那件事，你就不能談論意識。但是他們會想：「好啊，如果是這樣，那還真是個大麻煩，怎麼可能存在著這種事，成為真實世界中的一部份？」如果你曾上過哲學課，這就是有名的心物問題 (mind-body problem)。我認為這也有一個簡單的解決辦法，我馬上告訴你。那就是我們所有的意識狀態，沒有例外，都是由腦中較低層次的神經生物的過程所引起的，意識以較高層次或是系統特徵在大腦中被理解。這就像是水的流動性那樣神奇，對吧？流動不是由水分子噴出多餘的果汁，那是一種系統在其中的狀態。就像是滿罐子的水，可以從液體變成固體，視水分子的行為而變化，所以你的大腦也可以從有意識的狀態，轉變為無意識的狀態，全看分子的行為來變化。有名的心物問題就是那麼簡單。那麼，我們要探討更困難的問題了，我們來詳細說明意識的特徵，這樣一來，我們就可以回答我剛才提出的那四個反對的聲音。嗯，第一個特徵是，它是真實且不能減少的。你不能丟掉它。你看，現實和錯覺之間的差別，就如同在意識上，事情對我們來說是什麼樣子，和它實際的樣子之間的差別。意識上，就像是有──我喜歡法文中的「arc-en-ciel」──就像是有一道彩虹在天空中，或是太陽掛在山頂上。在意識中是如此，但是在現實中卻不然。但是在意識上看起來的樣子，與事實上的樣子之間的差別，你無法那樣區別意識的存在，因為意識的存在在於關注，如果在意識上對你來說，你是有意識的，那你就是有意識。我的意思是，如果一大票專家來跟我說：「我們是重量級的神經生物學家，我們對你，希爾勒，做了研究，我們相信你沒有意識，你是一個被設計得很聰明的機器人。」我不會想：「嗯，也許這些人是對的，是吧？」我一刻也不會懷疑，因為笛卡兒也許犯了很多錯，但是有件事他說對了，你不能懷疑自己的意識存在。這是意識的第一項特徵。它是真實且不能減少的。你不能用其它標準的錯覺來比照，說它是錯覺而就此認定它不存在。第二個特徵是我們困擾已久的根源，那就是我們所有的意識狀態對它們來說都有這個實質的樣貌。那就像是喝啤酒，跟你在算所得稅或聽音樂的感覺不同，這個實質的感覺自然而然地產生了第三項特徵，也就是意識狀態是主觀的定義，只會存在於某個人、動物的經驗，某些有經驗過意識的自我。也許我們將來能夠製造一台有意識機器。由於我們不知道大腦如何讓意識運作，到目前為止，我們就還不能製造有意識的機器。接下來，另一個意識的特徵是意識來自於統一的意識場。因此，我不只是看見眼前的這個人、我的聲音、我的鞋子在地面上的重量，這些東西都是以前後延伸的單一巨大意識場的一部分在我心裡出現。這是了解意識的無窮力量的關鍵。我們還沒有機器人可以做到這件事。很遺憾的是，現有的機器人顯示出我們還不知道如何製造有意識的機器人，因此，我們沒有可以做這種事的機器。下一件意識的特徵是，在這個不可思議的統一意識場之後，是它能輕易影響我們的行為。我舉起手，給你們看一項科學的實地示範，但是那是怎麼辦到的呢？我大腦中的這個想法怎麼能夠搬動實質的物體呢？讓我來告訴你答案。我的意思是，我們不知道詳細答案，但是我們知道初步的答案，那就是有一連串的神經活化，它們會終止在運動神經元終板的軸突就是分泌乙醯膽素的地方。很抱歉我用了一些哲學術語。不過當它在運動神經元的終板分泌時，會有很多美好的事情發生在離子通道中，然後該死的手臂就會舉起來了。現在，想想我剛才跟你說過的。同樣的一個活動，我的意識決定要舉起手臂，在某個程度上這樣的描述隱含了過於情感化的精神特質。那是在我大腦中的一個想法，但是同時也忙著分泌乙醯膽素，還有各式各樣的事，就好像它自己從運動皮質區透過手臂中的神經纖維來完成的。這件事告訴我們，過去用在討論這些議題的字彙都太過時了。另一種有同樣程度的描述的是在神經生物方面中，還有另一種是在心智方面，那是單一的情況，而那是自然如何發生，它能解釋意識是為何有效運作。那麼，把這些記在心上，記得我剛剛說的這些關於意識的種種特徵，讓我們來解答稍早的問題。首先我提到的是，意識並不存在，意識是錯覺。嗯，我已經回答了。我想我們不需要擔心這個問題了。但是第二個問題就有一點出乎意料之外的影響了，而且可能問題還是存在，那就是「如果意識存在，那它真的是別種東西，那真的是一個在你大腦中運轉的電腦程式，那就是我們要做的事，建立意識就是找到對的程式。嗯，別管硬體吧！任何用來啟動程式的硬體等級都足夠而且很穩定。」現在，我們知道那是錯的。我的意思是，任何想到電腦的人都知道那是錯的，因為計算的特點是符號運用，通常會用 0 和 1 來表示，但是任何符號都可以。如果你有一段演算法，就可以編寫出對應的二進位程式碼，這是電腦程式的特徵。不過我們知道那只是語法和符號。我們知道人的意識有的遠比這個更多，除了語法外還有內容。它有語義。我爭論了這件事從──喔！天啊，我實在不太想去回憶了──已經是三十年前的事了，但是我已告訴你的，當中還有更深的爭議點。簡而言之，這個爭議就是意識製造了觀察者獨立的事實。它創造了金錢、財產、政府、婚姻、CERN 大會、雞尾酒會與暑假的事實，而這些都是意識的產物。它們的存在是與觀察者相關的。它只會和意識主體有關，不管是一張紙代表了錢，或是一棟大樓代表了一所大學。現在，問問你自己數值的問題。它真的完全像力學、質量或是萬有引力嗎？或者那是與觀察者相關？嗯，有一些數值是固有的。二加二等於四，不管是誰，算出來的答案都一樣。但是當我拿出我的計算機做計算，唯一存在的現象就是電子電路和它的行為本身。那絕對是唯一的現象。其它的部分都是由我們演繹出來的。計算只有在與意識相關時才存在。不是意識主體進行演算，就是某台機器計算的結果。但是那不代表計算就是隨意的。我花了很多錢在這個硬體上。但是我們一直有個疑惑，在客觀與主觀事實的樣貌，以及客觀與主觀主張的樣貌之間的差異。在這場演說中，我的底線是：你可以有一個完全客觀的科學，你可以有一個基於完全客觀事實的主張，而這是一個主觀存在的領域，這個存在是在人類的大腦中，結合了感知、感覺或意識的主觀狀態，因此客觀來說，你不可能有一個客觀的意識科學，因為那是主觀的，而科學是客觀的，這是一語雙關。那是一個不好的主觀和客觀雙關語。你可以對一個存在於主觀領域中的事有客觀的主張，而這就是神經學家做的事。我的意思是，你的病人正在忍受疼痛，你試著用客觀的科學來看待他。嗯，我保證可以反駁他們所有的人，我沒有剩下多少時間了。但是，讓我來多做一些辯駁。我認為行為主義應該是我們知性文化中最大的尷尬之一。因為它不承認我們思考的每一個時刻，你的心智狀態和行為是一致的嗎？嗯，想一想感覺到疼痛以及疼痛的這個行為之間的差異。我不會說明疼痛的行為，但是我可以告訴你我現在沒有任何疼痛的感覺。所以，這是很明顯的錯誤。為什麼他們會犯這種錯？這個錯──你可以回頭去讀那些跟這個相關的文獻，你可以反覆閱讀──他們認為，如果你接受了意識的存在是不能減少，你就放棄了科學。你就放棄了三百年來人類進化、人類的希望和所有的事。我想傳達給大家的訊息是意識應該要成為公認的生命現象，隸屬於科學分析，如同生物中的現象，或者，就和所有的科學一樣。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
