Talk	en	zh-tw
jon_nguyen_tour_the_solar_system_from_home	"As a kid, I was fascinated with all things air and space. I would watch Nova on PBS. Our school would show Bill Nye the Science Guy. When I was in elementary school, my next door neighbor, he gave me a book for my birthday. It was an astronomy book, and I poured over that thing for hours on end, and it was a combination of all these things that inspired me to pursue space exploration as my own personal dream, and part of that dream was, I always wanted to just fly around the solar system and visit different planets and visit moons and spacecraft. Well, a number of years later, I graduated from UCLA and I found myself at NASA, working for the jet propulsion laboratory, and there our team was challenged to create a 3D visualization of the solar system, and today I want to show you what we've done so far. Now, the kicker is, everything I'm about to do here you can do at home, because we built this for the public for you guys to use. So what you're looking at right now is the Earth. You can see the United States and California and San Diego, and you can use the mouse or the keyboard to spin things around. Now, this isn't new. Anyone who's used Google Earth has seen this before, but one thing we like to say in our group is, we do the opposite of Google Earth. Google Earth goes from this view down to your backyard. We go from this view out to the stars. So the Earth is cool, but what we really want to show are the spacecraft, so I'm going to bring the interface back up, and now you're looking at a number of satellites orbiting the Earth. These are a number of our science space Earth orbiters. We haven't included military satellites and weather satellites and communication satellites and reconnaissance satellites. If we did, it would be a complete mess, because there's a lot of stuff out there. And the cool thing is, we actually created 3D models for a number of these spacecraft, so if you want to visit any of these, all you need to do is double-click on them. So I'm going to find the International Space Station, double-click, and it will take us all the way down to the ISS. And now you're riding along with the ISS where it is right now. And the other cool thing is, not only can we move the camera around, we can also control time, so I can slide this jog dial here to shuttle time forward, and now we can see what a sunset on the ISS would look like, and they get one every 90 minutes. (Laughter) All right, so what about the rest of it? Well, I can click on this home button over here, and that will take us up to the inner solar system, and now we're looking at the rest of the solar system. You can see, there's Saturn, there's Jupiter, and while we're here, I want to point out something. It's actually pretty busy. Here we have the Mars Science Laboratory on its way to Mars, just launched last weekend. Here we have Juno on its cruise to Jupiter, there. We have Dawn orbiting Vesta, and we have over here New Horizons on a straight shot to Pluto. And I mention this because there's this strange public perception that NASA's dead, that the space shuttles stopped flying and all of the sudden there's no more spacecraft out there. Well, a lot of what NASA does is robotic exploration, and we have a lot of spacecraft out there. Granted, we're not sending humans up at the moment, well at least with our own launch vehicles, but NASA is far from dead, and one of the reasons why we write a program like this is so that people realize that there's so many other things that we're doing. Anyway, while we're here, again, if you want to visit anything, all you need to do is double-click. So I'm just going to double-click on Vesta, and here we have Dawn orbiting Vesta, and this is happening right now. I'm going to double-click on Uranus, and we can see Uranus rotating on its side along with its moons. You can see how it's tilted at about 89 degrees. And just being able to visit different places and go through different times, we have data from 1950 to 2050. Granted, we don't have everything in between, because some of the data is hard to get. Just being able to visit places in different times, you can explore this for hours, literally hours on end, but I want to show you one thing in particular, so I'm going to open up the destination tab, spacecraft outer planet missions, Voyager 1, and I'm going to bring up the Titan flyby. So now we've gone back in time. We're now riding along with Voyager 1. The date here is November 11, 1980. Now, there's a funny thing going on here. It doesn't look like anything's going on. It looks like I've paused the program. It's actually running at real rate right now, one second per second, and in fact, Voyager 1 here is flying by Titan at I think it's 38,000 miles per hour. It only looks like nothing's moving because, well, Saturn here is 700,000 miles away, and Titan here is 4,000 to 5,000 miles away. It's just the vastness of space makes it look like nothing's happening. But to make it more interesting, I'm going to speed up time, and we can watch as Voyager 1 flies by Titan, which is a hazy moon of Saturn. It actually has a very thick atmosphere. And I'm going to recenter the camera on Saturn, here. I'm going to pull out, and I want to show you Voyager 1 as it flies by Saturn. There's a point to be made here. With a 3D visualization like this, we can not only just say Voyager 1 flew by Saturn. There's a whole story to tell here. And even better, because it's an interactive application, you can tell the story for yourself. If you want to pause it, you can pause it. If you want to keep going, if you want to change the camera angle, you can do that, and because of that, I can show you that Voyager 1 doesn't just fly by Saturn. It actually flies underneath Saturn. Now, what happens is, as it flies underneath Saturn, Saturn grabs it gravitationally and flings it up and out of the solar system, so if I just keep letting this go, you can see Voyager 1 fly up like that. And, in fact, I'm going to go back to the solar system. I'm going to go back to today, now, and I want to show you where Voyager 1 is. Right there, above, way above the solar system, way beyond our solar system. And here's the thing. Now you know how it got there. Now you know why, and to me, that's the point of this program. You can manipulate it yourself. You can fly around yourself and you can learn for yourself. You know, the theme today is ""The World In Your Grasp."" Well, we're trying to give you the solar system in your grasp — (Laughter) — and we hope once it's there, you'll be able to learn for yourself what we've done out there, and what we're about to do. And my personal dream is for kids to take this and explore and see the wonders out there and be inspired, as I was as a kid, to pursue STEM education and to pursue a dream in space exploration. Thank you. (Applause)"	"在小的時候，我就對航空及太空的事物十分著迷。我會看公共電視網播放的 Nova 節目。我們學校也會放映的 ""比爾教科學"" (由迪士尼製作的一個科學節目)小學的時候, 隔壁鄰居在我生日時送了我一本有關天文的書，我花了好幾個小時一口氣把它看完,就是這些經歷對太空的探索成為了我的夢想, 而其中一個，就是飛遍太陽系,拜訪不同的星球，參觀各個衛星及太空飛行器。 幾年後，我從加州大學洛杉磯分校畢業進入了美國國家航空暨太空總署，在噴氣推進實驗室裡工作而我們的團隊, 正思索著能否創建一個三度空間視覺化的太陽能系統，今天, 我要向您們展示我們現階段所做出的成果。 而且, 我在這裡所展示的您們在家裡都可以自己操作，因為我們建立的目的就是讓大眾都能輕易使用。 現在各位看到的是地球。可以看到美國和加州聖地牙哥. 您可以使用滑鼠或鍵盤輕易的旋轉。 使用過 Google Earth 的人都知道如何的操作，但我們團隊所做的和 Google Earth 是完全相反Google Earth 是將視野透視到每個家的後院。而我們則是從地球向外拉出去看各個宇宙中的星球。這個地球是很酷，但我們真正想要展示的是太空飛行器，現在我獎調節接觸面然後, 你們會看到幾個衛星，正繞著地球飛行。這裡有些科學人造衛星。我們還沒將軍事衛星和氣象衛星涵蓋進來也沒有通信衛星和偵察衛星。如果將它們全數納進來，這系統將會顯得非常混亂，因為實在太多了。最酷的是，我們確實的創建了某些飛行器的 3D 模型因此，如果您想要更仔細的它們,只需要按兩下划鼠就可以了. 假設我想找國際太空站，找到它, 按兩下，馬上就到那兒去了。而且就跟著它此時此刻所在的位置一起飛行。 另外一件很酷的事是，我們不只可以左右移動相機，還可以控制時間，我現在在這選項裡將時間往後拉,就可以看到在國際空間站的日落是什麼景象而且每隔90分鐘就可以有一個日落。（笑聲） 好吧，那還有什麼呢？按一下主頁按鈕，這將帶我們到太陽系內部，我們看到了太陽系的其他星球。有土星，木星在這裡，我想說明的是這是個很忙碌的銀河系。 這個是上個星期才發射,正航向火星的科學實驗室 這個是正航向木星的 Juno 號.我們的曙光號繞著灶神星 (Vesta)這裡是新視野號正航向冥王星 我提到這些是因為大眾有個奇特的認知，以為美國國家航空暨太空總署已死，太空梭已不再發射或突然之間所有的太空飛行器都不見了。 目前美國國家航空暨太空總署都是用機器人探索，而且已經送出很多這樣的太空飛行器了。我們不再將人類送至外太空，至少 NASA 不再如此做了.但 NASA 不會這麼輕易的結束的我們寫這個程式的原因之一就是因為人們意識到我們還在著手進行很多其它的研究。 好, 現在回到這個程式,如果您想要造訪任何行星衛星，您只需對著它按兩下划鼠。現在我找到灶神星，按兩下就可以看到曙光號環繞灶神星而且這是現在這個時刻正在進行的事。現在對著天王星，按兩下，我們看到天王星以及它的衛星群的運轉情形您可以看到它們是呈 89 度傾斜。 我們可以造訪不同的地點也可以進入不同的時空因為這系統擁有 1950 到 2050 年的資料當然，我們沒有所有的時空的詳細資料，因為某些資料真的很難取得因為可以在不同的時空裡造訪這個太陽系,您大概得花上幾個小時才能瀏覽完畢現在我要特別展示一下現在我要打開目標選項欄選擇: 外太空衛星任務，旅行者一號然後再叫出泰坦星球所以現在我們回到了那個時空我們現在正在與旅行者一號同行。日期是 1980 年 11 月 11 日。 現在，有趣的是它看上去像沒事一樣就好像我暫停了程序。但它實際上是以一個速率在行進的事實上，旅行家一號正在飛往泰坦星速率應該是每小時 38,000 英里它看起來不像在移動的樣子那是因為, 土星離這裡是 700,000 英里，泰坦星則離這裡 4,000 至 5,000 英里遠。因為距離太遙遠, 因此感覺不到有任何的動靜 為了使它更有趣，我把速度加快， 我們可以看到旅行者一號正通過泰坦星它是一個土星的矇矓的衛星。實際上，它有很厚的大氣層。並且我要把中心設為土星然後將鏡頭拉出去，您就會看到旅行者一號正飛行過土星 我要說明的是利用這樣的三度空間視覺化系統我們不僅僅可以了解旅行者一號飛過了土星更可以明白在背後的故事更棒的是，它是一個互動式應用程式您可以讓它為您說故事。可以依您的需要隨時的暫停, 繼續如果您想更改相機角度隨時都可以這麼做的因此，我可以告訴您旅行者一號不只是飛向土星。它實際上是從土星的下方飛過現在, 當它從土星底下飛過, 發生了一件事土星的地心引力抓住了它並把它往上扔出了太陽系所以如果我只是讓它繼續延著這路徑走，您會看到旅行者一號往上飛了起來。現在我要回到太陽系裡回到今天，現在，此時此刻我會指出旅行者一號在哪裡就在哪兒，在太陽系的上方在離太陽系很遠很遠的地方 現在您明白了它是如何到那裡的對我來說，這也是設計這個程式的主要目的您可以自己操縱它您可以任意的飛，也可以幫助自己學習 今天的主題是""掌握世界""。我們試圖給您的則是 ""掌握的太陽系"" — — （笑聲） — —我們希望可以藉由這個系統您能夠自我學習也能更瞭解我們做了什麼，我們將要做什麼我個人則是希望, 能藉此啟發孩子們去探索外太空的奇妙宇宙像我孩提時的經歷一樣追求科學,技術,工程和數學 (STEM) 教育並繼續探索太空的夢想。 謝謝。（掌聲）"
