Talk	en	zh-tw
jon_gosier_the_problem_with_trickle_down_techonomics	"As a software developer and technologist, I've worked on a number of civic technology projects over the years. Civic tech is sometimes referred to as tech for good, using technology to solve humanitarian problems. This is in 2010 in Uganda, working on a solution that allowed local populations to avoid government surveillance on their mobile phones for expressing dissent. That same technology was deployed later in North Africa for similar purposes to help activists stay connected when governments were deliberately shutting off connectivity as a means of population control. But over the years, as I have thought about these technologies and the things that I work on, a question kind of nags in the back of my mind, which is, what if we're wrong about the virtues of technology, and if it sometimes actively hurts the communities that we're intending to help? The tech industry around the world tends to operate under similar assumptions that if we build great things, it will positively affect everyone. Eventually, these innovations will get out and find everyone. But that's not always the case. I like to call this blind championing of technology ""trickle-down techonomics,"" to borrow a phrase. (Laughter) We tend to think that if we design things for the select few, eventually those technologies will reach everyone, and that's not always the case. Technology and innovation behaves a lot like wealth and capital. They tend to consolidate in the hands of the few, and sometimes they find their way out into the hands of the many. And so most of you aren't tackling oppressive regimes on the weekends, so I wanted to think of a few examples that might be a little bit more relatable. In the world of wearables and smartphones and apps, there's a big movement to track people's personal health with applications that track the number of calories that you burn or whether you're sitting too much or walking enough. These technologies make patient intake in medical facilities much more efficient, and in turn, these medical facilities are starting to expect these types of efficiencies. As these digital tools find their way into medical rooms, and they become digitally ready, what happens to the digitally invisible? What does the medical experience look like for someone who doesn't have the $400 phone or watch tracking their every movement? Do they now become a burden on the medical system? Is their experience changed? In the world of finance, Bitcoin and crypto-currencies are revolutionizing the way we move money around the world, but the challenge with these technologies is the barrier to entry is incredibly high, right? You need access to the same phones, devices, connectivity, and even where you don't, where you can find a proxy agent, usually they require a certain amount of capital to participate. And so the question that I ask myself is, what happens to the last community using paper notes when the rest of the world moves to digital currency? Another example from my hometown in Philadelphia: I recently went to the public library there, and they are facing an existential crisis. Public funding is dwindling, they have to reduce their footprint to stay open and stay relevant, and so one of the ways they're going about this is digitizing a number of the books and moving them to the cloud. This is great for most kids. Right? You can check out books from home, you can research on the way to school or from school, but these are really two big assumptions, that one, you have access at home, and two, that you have access to a mobile phone, and in Philadelphia, many kids do not. So what does their education experience look like in the wake of a completely cloud-based library, what used to be considered such a basic part of education? How do they stay competitive? A final example from across the world in East Africa: there's been a huge movement to digitize land ownership rights, for a number of reasons. Migrant communities, older generations dying off, and ultimately poor record-keeping have led to conflicts over who owns what. And so there was a big movement to put all this information online, to track all the ownership of these plots of land, put them in the cloud, and give them to the communities. But actually, the unintended consequence of this has been that venture capitalists, investors, real estate developers, have swooped in and they've begun buying up these plots of land right out from under these communities, because they have access to the technologies and the connectivity that makes that possible. So that's the common thread that connects these examples, the unintended consequences of the tools and the technologies that we make. As engineers, as technologists, we sometimes prefer efficiency over efficacy. We think more about doing things than the outcomes of what we are doing. This needs to change. We have a responsibility to think about the outcomes of the technologies we build, especially as they increasingly control the world in which we live. In the late '90s, there was a big push for ethics in the world of investment and banking. I think in 2014, we're long overdue for a similar movement in the area of tech and technology. So, I just encourage you, as you are all thinking about the next big thing, as entrepreneurs, as CEOs, as engineers, as makers, that you think about the unintended consequences of the things that you're building, because the real innovation is in finding ways to include everyone. Thank you. (Applause)"	身為一個軟體開發者和科技者，在過去多年來，我曾參與許多公民科技計畫。公民科技有時又被稱為有益科技，運用科技解決有關人道主義的問題。 這是我 2010 年在烏干達，參與解決一個讓當地的人避免被政府監聽他們用手機表達不滿的方案。同樣的科技後來被應用到北非，為了同樣的目的，也被用於幫助異議活動者保持聯繫。那時政府故意切斷人民相互連結的途徑，以便控制全民。 過去幾年來，我在思維這些科技以及我所參與的工作時，有一個問題一直困擾著我。那就是，如果我們對於科技有益之處的看法是錯誤的，或許它有時反而傷害了我們立意要幫助的社群呢？世界上的科技行業往往基於類似以下的假設而運作：他們認為如果我們創造了好的東西，就一定會正面的影響所有人。最終，這些創新的產品都會找到途徑讓所有人使用。但是，事實並非如此。我稱之為科技「下滲科技經濟」的盲目擁護，借用一下這個短詞。（笑聲）我們認為如果我們原先為了特定的少數人而設計的東西，最後這些科技還是為所有人所用。但是事實並非全然如此。科技和創新就像財富和資本，大多時候他們被掌握在少數人手中，偶而也會落入多數人手上。 你們大多數不會在週末忙著應付暴虐的政權，所以我要用一些你們比較容易聯想的例子。 在可以穿戴產品、智慧手機和應用程序的世界裡，有一個可以追蹤人體健康狀態的大躍進。透過手機軟體，它可追蹤你所燃燒的熱量，或計算你是否坐太久，或者做足夠的走動。這些科技讓醫療機構更有效率地獲取病人的狀況，反過來，這些醫療機構開始期待這種形式的效率。當這些電子工具進入到醫療診療室，它們就為數位化做好了萬全準備。但那些不能實現數位化的病人呢？那些沒有 400 元美金的手機和手錶來追蹤他們的日常生活的人，他們的醫療經驗是如何呢？他們現在是否成為醫療體系的負擔呢？他們的醫療經驗是否改變了？ 在金融的世界，比特幣和加密貨幣革新了錢在全世界流通的方式。但是這些科技的挑戰是它們的門檻非常高，對嗎？你需要有同樣的手機、設備、網路連結，以及甚至在你沒有的地方，你必須能找到替代的工具。通常這些需要有一些錢才能參與。所以我自問，那些僅存的還在用紙幣的社群怎麼辦，當全世界都轉而使用數字貨幣時？ 另一個例子是我的家鄉－費城：我最近去那裡的一個公立圖書館，他們也正在面對生存危機。公共資金在萎縮，為了能繼續開放和提供相關服務，他們只能盡量減少所佔的面積.他們的解決的方法之一是將許多書數位化後，送到網路雲端。這對大多數的小孩是很好的，對嗎？你可以在家裡就可以閱讀這些書。你可以在去學教的路上或在學校裡做研究。但是有兩個大前提，第一，你的家裡必須有網路；第二，你必須有手機可使用。在費城，許多小孩沒有這些。所以他們的教育經驗在圖書館完全成為雲端化以後會變成如何呢？實體圖書館以前是教育裡最基本的部分。這些孩子們如何維持競爭力呢？ 最後的一個例子，是在世界另一邊的東非。那裡曾大力推動將土地所有權數位化，理由如下：在移民的社區裡，老一代的逐漸死去。最後由於保存紀錄不佳，導致許多土地所有權的爭議。所以他們大張旗鼓地將這些資料放在網路上，以追蹤個別土地的所有權紀錄。他們將這些資料放在網上的雲端，讓有關社群可以使用。但是實際上，出乎意料的是，風險投資家、投資者、房地產開發商人開始猛撲進來，從這些社群買入這些土地。因為他們能夠運用科技和網路連結來達到這些目的。 這些例子的共同點是，這些不是我們在創造科技和工具時所意想的結果。身為工程師、技術專家，有時我們偏重效率多於效用。我們較多想到去做一些事情，而不是我們做這些事情的結果。這需要改變。我們有責任要考量我們所創造的這些科技所造成的後果，特別是當這些科技逐漸在控制我們所生存的世界。在 1990 年代末期，在投資和銀行界，有一場很大型的有關道德的推動。在 2014 年，在高科技領域，我們也早該有類似的推動。 所以，我要鼓勵大家，當你在想下一件大發明時，作為企業家、公司總裁、工程師、製造業者，也考量一下你們創造的東西會不會產生意外的後果。因為真正的創新要找到能夠利及所有人的途徑。 謝謝！（掌聲）
