Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_haidt_humanity_s_stairway_to_self_transcendence	"I have a question for you: Are you religious? Please raise your hand right now if you think of yourself as a religious person. Let's see, I'd say about three or four percent. I had no idea there were so many believers at a TED Conference. (Laughter) Okay, here's another question: Do you think of yourself as spiritual in any way, shape or form? Raise your hand. Okay, that's the majority. My Talk today is about the main reason, or one of the main reasons, why most people consider themselves to be spiritual in some way, shape or form. My Talk today is about self-transcendence. It's just a basic fact about being human that sometimes the self seems to just melt away. And when that happens, the feeling is ecstatic and we reach for metaphors of up and down to explain these feelings. We talk about being uplifted or elevated. Now it's really hard to think about anything abstract like this without a good concrete metaphor. So here's the metaphor I'm offering today. Think about the mind as being like a house with many rooms, most of which we're very familiar with. But sometimes it's as though a doorway appears from out of nowhere and it opens onto a staircase. We climb the staircase and experience a state of altered consciousness. In 1902, the great American psychologist William James wrote about the many varieties of religious experience. He collected all kinds of case studies. He quoted the words of all kinds of people who'd had a variety of these experiences. One of the most exciting to me is this young man, Stephen Bradley, had an encounter, he thought, with Jesus in 1820. And here's what Bradley said about it. (Music) (Video) Stephen Bradley: I thought I saw the savior in human shape for about one second in the room, with arms extended, appearing to say to me, ""Come."" The next day I rejoiced with trembling. My happiness was so great that I said I wanted to die. This world had no place in my affections. Previous to this time, I was very selfish and self-righteous. But now I desired the welfare of all mankind and could, with a feeling heart, forgive my worst enemies. JH: So note how Bradley's petty, moralistic self just dies on the way up the staircase. And on this higher level he becomes loving and forgiving. The world's many religions have found so many ways to help people climb the staircase. Some shut down the self using meditation. Others use psychedelic drugs. This is from a 16th century Aztec scroll showing a man about to eat a psilocybin mushroom and at the same moment get yanked up the staircase by a god. Others use dancing, spinning and circling to promote self-transcendence. But you don't need a religion to get you through the staircase. Lots of people find self-transcendence in nature. Others overcome their self at raves. But here's the weirdest place of all: war. So many books about war say the same thing, that nothing brings people together like war. And that bringing them together opens up the possibility of extraordinary self-transcendent experiences. I'm going to play for you an excerpt from this book by Glenn Gray. Gray was a soldier in the American army in World War II. And after the war he interviewed a lot of other soldiers and wrote about the experience of men in battle. Here's a key passage where he basically describes the staircase. (Video) Glenn Gray: Many veterans will admit that the experience of communal effort in battle has been the high point of their lives. ""I"" passes insensibly into a ""we,"" ""my"" becomes ""our"" and individual faith loses its central importance. I believe that it is nothing less than the assurance of immortality that makes self-sacrifice at these moments so relatively easy. I may fall, but I do not die, for that which is real in me goes forward and lives on in the comrades for whom I gave up my life. JH: So what all of these cases have in common is that the self seems to thin out, or melt away, and it feels good, it feels really good, in a way totally unlike anything we feel in our normal lives. It feels somehow uplifting. This idea that we move up was central in the writing of the great French sociologist Emile Durkheim. Durkheim even called us Homo duplex, or two-level man. The lower level he called the level of the profane. Now profane is the opposite of sacred. It just means ordinary or common. And in our ordinary lives we exist as individuals. We want to satisfy our individual desires. We pursue our individual goals. But sometimes something happens that triggers a phase change. Individuals unite into a team, a movement or a nation, which is far more than the sum of its parts. Durkheim called this level the level of the sacred because he believed that the function of religion was to unite people into a group, into a moral community. Durkheim believed that anything that unites us takes on an air of sacredness. And once people circle around some sacred object or value, they'll then work as a team and fight to defend it. Durkheim wrote about a set of intense collective emotions that accomplish this miracle of E pluribus unum, of making a group out of individuals. Think of the collective joy in Britain on the day World War II ended. Think of the collective anger in Tahrir Square, which brought down a dictator. And think of the collective grief in the United States that we all felt, that brought us all together, after 9/11. So let me summarize where we are. I'm saying that the capacity for self-transcendence is just a basic part of being human. I'm offering the metaphor of a staircase in the mind. I'm saying we are Homo duplex and this staircase takes us up from the profane level to the level of the sacred. When we climb that staircase, self-interest fades away, we become just much less self-interested, and we feel as though we are better, nobler and somehow uplifted. So here's the million-dollar question for social scientists like me: Is the staircase a feature of our evolutionary design? Is it a product of natural selection, like our hands? Or is it a bug, a mistake in the system — this religious stuff is just something that happens when the wires cross in the brain — Jill has a stroke and she has this religious experience, it's just a mistake? Well many scientists who study religion take this view. The New Atheists, for example, argue that religion is a set of memes, sort of parasitic memes, that get inside our minds and make us do all kinds of crazy religious stuff, self-destructive stuff, like suicide bombing. And after all, how could it ever be good for us to lose ourselves? How could it ever be adaptive for any organism to overcome self-interest? Well let me show you. In ""The Descent of Man,"" Charles Darwin wrote a great deal about the evolution of morality — where did it come from, why do we have it. Darwin noted that many of our virtues are of very little use to ourselves, but they're of great use to our groups. He wrote about the scenario in which two tribes of early humans would have come in contact and competition. He said, ""If the one tribe included a great number of courageous, sympathetic and faithful members who are always ready to aid and defend each other, this tribe would succeed better and conquer the other."" He went on to say that ""Selfish and contentious people will not cohere, and without coherence nothing can be effected."" In other words, Charles Darwin believed in group selection. Now this idea has been very controversial for the last 40 years, but it's about to make a major comeback this year, especially after E.O. Wilson's book comes out in April, making a very strong case that we, and several other species, are products of group selection. But really the way to think about this is as multilevel selection. So look at it this way: You've got competition going on within groups and across groups. So here's a group of guys on a college crew team. Within this team there's competition. There are guys competing with each other. The slowest rowers, the weakest rowers, are going to get cut from the team. And only a few of these guys are going to go on in the sport. Maybe one of them will make it to the Olympics. So within the team, their interests are actually pitted against each other. And sometimes it would be advantageous for one of these guys to try to sabotage the other guys. Maybe he'll badmouth his chief rival to the coach. But while that competition is going on within the boat, this competition is going on across boats. And once you put these guys in a boat competing with another boat, now they've got no choice but to cooperate because they're all in the same boat. They can only win if they all pull together as a team. I mean, these things sound trite, but they are deep evolutionary truths. The main argument against group selection has always been that, well sure, it would be nice to have a group of cooperators, but as soon as you have a group of cooperators, they're just going to get taken over by free-riders, individuals that are going to exploit the hard work of the others. Let me illustrate this for you. Suppose we've got a group of little organisms — they can be bacteria, they can be hamsters; it doesn't matter what — and let's suppose that this little group here, they evolved to be cooperative. Well that's great. They graze, they defend each other, they work together, they generate wealth. And as you'll see in this simulation, as they interact they gain points, as it were, they grow, and when they've doubled in size, you'll see them split, and that's how they reproduce and the population grows. But suppose then that one of them mutates. There's a mutation in the gene and one of them mutates to follow a selfish strategy. It takes advantage of the others. And so when a green interacts with a blue, you'll see the green gets larger and the blue gets smaller. So here's how things play out. We start with just one green, and as it interacts it gains wealth or points or food. And in short order, the cooperators are done for. The free-riders have taken over. If a group cannot solve the free-rider problem then it cannot reap the benefits of cooperation and group selection cannot get started. But there are solutions to the free-rider problem. It's not that hard a problem. In fact, nature has solved it many, many times. And nature's favorite solution is to put everyone in the same boat. For example, why is it that the mitochondria in every cell has its own DNA, totally separate from the DNA in the nucleus? It's because they used to be separate free-living bacteria and they came together and became a superorganism. Somehow or other — maybe one swallowed another; we'll never know exactly why — but once they got a membrane around them, they were all in the same membrane, now all the wealth-created division of labor, all the greatness created by cooperation, stays locked inside the membrane and we've got a superorganism. And now let's rerun the simulation putting one of these superorganisms into a population of free-riders, of defectors, of cheaters and look what happens. A superorganism can basically take what it wants. It's so big and powerful and efficient that it can take resources from the greens, from the defectors, the cheaters. And pretty soon the whole population is actually composed of these new superorganisms. What I've shown you here is sometimes called a major transition in evolutionary history. Darwin's laws don't change, but now there's a new kind of player on the field and things begin to look very different. Now this transition was not a one-time freak of nature that just happened with some bacteria. It happened again about 120 or a 140 million years ago when some solitary wasps began creating little simple, primitive nests, or hives. Once several wasps were all together in the same hive, they had no choice but to cooperate, because pretty soon they were locked into competition with other hives. And the most cohesive hives won, just as Darwin said. These early wasps gave rise to the bees and the ants that have covered the world and changed the biosphere. And it happened again, even more spectacularly, in the last half-million years when our own ancestors became cultural creatures, they came together around a hearth or a campfire, they divided labor, they began painting their bodies, they spoke their own dialects, and eventually they worshiped their own gods. Once they were all in the same tribe, they could keep the benefits of cooperation locked inside. And they unlocked the most powerful force ever known on this planet, which is human cooperation — a force for construction and destruction. Of course, human groups are nowhere near as cohesive as beehives. Human groups may look like hives for brief moments, but they tend to then break apart. We're not locked into cooperation the way bees and ants are. In fact, often, as we've seen happen in a lot of the Arab Spring revolts, often those divisions are along religious lines. Nonetheless, when people do come together and put themselves all into the same movement, they can move mountains. Look at the people in these photos I've been showing you. Do you think they're there pursuing their self-interest? Or are they pursuing communal interest, which requires them to lose themselves and become simply a part of a whole? Okay, so that was my Talk delivered in the standard TED way. And now I'm going to give the whole Talk over again in three minutes in a more full-spectrum sort of way. (Music) (Video) Jonathan Haidt: We humans have many varieties of religious experience, as William James explained. One of the most common is climbing the secret staircase and losing ourselves. The staircase takes us from the experience of life as profane or ordinary upwards to the experience of life as sacred, or deeply interconnected. We are Homo duplex, as Durkheim explained. And we are Homo duplex because we evolved by multilevel selection, as Darwin explained. I can't be certain if the staircase is an adaptation rather than a bug, but if it is an adaptation, then the implications are profound. If it is an adaptation, then we evolved to be religious. I don't mean that we evolved to join gigantic organized religions. Those things came along too recently. I mean that we evolved to see sacredness all around us and to join with others into teams and circle around sacred objects, people and ideas. This is why politics is so tribal. Politics is partly profane, it's partly about self-interest, but politics is also about sacredness. It's about joining with others to pursue moral ideas. It's about the eternal struggle between good and evil, and we all believe we're on the good team. And most importantly, if the staircase is real, it explains the persistent undercurrent of dissatisfaction in modern life. Because human beings are, to some extent, hivish creatures like bees. We're bees. We busted out of the hive during the Enlightenment. We broke down the old institutions and brought liberty to the oppressed. We unleashed Earth-changing creativity and generated vast wealth and comfort. Nowadays we fly around like individual bees exulting in our freedom. But sometimes we wonder: Is this all there is? What should I do with my life? What's missing? What's missing is that we are Homo duplex, but modern, secular society was built to satisfy our lower, profane selves. It's really comfortable down here on the lower level. Come, have a seat in my home entertainment center. One great challenge of modern life is to find the staircase amid all the clutter and then to do something good and noble once you climb to the top. I see this desire in my students at the University of Virginia. They all want to find a cause or calling that they can throw themselves into. They're all searching for their staircase. And that gives me hope because people are not purely selfish. Most people long to overcome pettiness and become part of something larger. And this explains the extraordinary resonance of this simple metaphor conjured up nearly 400 years ago. ""No man is an island entire of itself. Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main."" JH: Thank you. (Applause)"	"問你們一個問題：你有宗教信仰嗎?如果你覺得你是個有宗教信仰的人請舉起你的手看來有百分之三到四的人沒想到TED聽眾還有這麼多宗教信徒(笑聲)好，下一個問題：你覺得你是個有靈性的人嗎?無論各種型態，請舉手好，大部分的人都是 我今天的演講是要解釋為何我們人會認為自己屬靈不管藉由什麼方法或型態我今天的演講有關""自我昇華""這是個簡單的概念，有關我們人類偶爾會不再以自我為中心而當我們無私時會有種難以言喻的狂喜我們尋找各種言詞來表達這種內心的悸動好比說""無比振奮""或是""達到忘我的境界"" 光看字面實在是很難想像這到底是什麼樣的感受所以我提供一個比喻來詮釋想像你的腦是個大房子我們很熟悉大多數的房間但有時候，會有一道門在我們面前突然出現打開後是向上的階梯我們走上階梯感受到一股強烈的心靈悸動 在1902年美國偉大的心理學家 William James寫了有關各式的宗教經驗他蒐集自各種個案研究引用人們口中多種的宗教體驗其中有個例子非常有趣這個年輕人 Stephen Bradley在1820年，自認遇見了耶穌以下是 Bradley 的口述： (音樂) (影片) ""我見到道成肉身的救世主了差不多有一秒鐘的時間，在房裡張開雙臂彷彿對我說：到我這來隔天我興奮到發抖那無比的快樂讓我想立刻死去我不再留戀世俗的一切在這之前我是個自私自利的人但現在我心中充滿了大愛得以有顆飽富情感的心能原諒我的敵人"" 所以注意到Bradley 的小我與私心在登上那段台階後都消失了在這更高的層次裡他變得有愛，有憐憫世界上，各宗教都有自己的方法來幫助人們登上這道階梯有人坐禪來忘我有人用迷幻藥這是16世紀阿茲提克手繪圖中的男子正在吃迷幻菇同時，神來將他「拽上階梯」另外有的用跳舞、轉圈和繞圈來達到自我昇華的境界但你不需經由信仰來自我昇華許多人在大自然裡找到方式有的可以在狂歡中得到解放 但，其中最奇怪的管道是戰爭許多關於戰爭的書籍都提過世界上沒有任何方法能像戰爭把人緊密的凝聚在一起這種群體意識加強了人們超脫自我的體驗我將從Glenn Gray的書摘出一段做舉例Gray當時是二次世界大戰的美國軍人戰後他去拜訪了許多當時有參戰的軍人之後寫了關於軍人在戰場的經驗在裡面有個重要段落描述他達到那境界的過程 (影片) Glenn Gray：許多退役軍人都承認在戰場上，大家是榮辱與共的而這也是他們人生的高峰「我」變成「我們」「我的」變成「我們的」而個人價值失去了意義我相信，沒有甚麼比永恆不朽的榮譽更能讓自我犧牲奉獻變得容易我也許會死，但我的意念不會我的意念會傳承給那些和我有過命之交的好夥伴們 這些例子都有一個共通點自我變得渺小，甚至不重要但卻讓人們自我感覺更良好這些都是我們平常生活中很難感受到的是一種昇華的感覺這觀點在法國有名的社會學家Emile Durkheim的著作中十分重要Durkheim甚至稱我們為雙面人或雙階人他說低階那面是世俗的世俗是超然的反面意思是平凡或普通在日常生活中，我們都是獨立生活的我們都希望滿足自我的慾望追求自己的目標但有時一些事情發生改變這個型態人與人開始聯合產生隊伍、社會運動或國家所產生的力量大於個人的總和 Durkheim稱這為超然的階段他深信宗教的作用就是把一群人聚在一起最終變成道德社群Durkheim相信任何凝聚人群的因素都會無形中被視為神聖當人們圍繞著神聖的東西或價值觀他們會一起合作保護它Durkheim提到一股強烈的集體情緒可以讓人奇蹟般的合而為一將個人組織成團體試想二次世界大戰結束時英國普世歡騰的氣氛和當時在埃及解放廣場的集體怒氣讓獨裁者被推翻還有美國在9/11後那種集體悲傷讓我們團結一心 到此讓我先做個結論超脫自我其實只是人類的基本能力我說了那腦海中登上階梯的比喻我們身為雙面人而這階梯會引領我們從平凡境界到達非凡的境界當我們攀爬那階梯時自我利益不再重要我們不再這麼自私我們覺得自己更加美好，更高貴甚至感到振奮 至此，對像我一樣的社會科學家有一個極其重要的問題：這座階梯是不是我們自進化所得來的？還是就好像我們的雙手是與生俱來的?或是它根本就是系統出錯宗教這東西就像是大腦中的線路錯接突然產生的現象Jill中風時，她也有這宗教的經驗這只是一時的出錯嗎? 許多研究宗教的科學家是這麼認為的像是，新無神論者覺得宗教是一系列的模仿一種寄生的模仿會入侵我們的想法影響我們做出一系列瘋狂的宗教行為或是自我毀滅，像是人體炸彈最終失去自我對我們來說真的好嗎?不管任何生物體怎樣可能有辦法克服自我私利？讓我來告訴你 在《人類的起源》裡達爾文寫了許多關於道德進化論這件事道德是從哪來的? 我們怎麼會擁有它?達爾文指出了許多人性的美德只有極小部分有利於我們但是對我們的社群卻是極其有利的他寫了一篇例子早期人類有兩個部落會交流和比賽他說：""如果其中一方擁有較多有膽量，有同情心又忠誠的人民且隨時願意幫助和保護別人這個部落肯定會比較成功並且征服另一個部落""他還說：""自私和愛爭吵的人無法凝聚一起缺少同心協力甚麼事情都不會有效果""換句話說達爾文相信群體篩選 這一觀點在過去的40年裡爭論不斷但是今年，將會再度盛行尤其是當E.O. Wilson的新書在4月份出版之後會帶來很震撼的實例書裡面說，我們和其他物種都是群體篩選下的產物但認真的思考下去這就像是多重篩選 我們應該要這樣來看：你一直都處在團體裡和團體間的競爭比方說有一群學生在划船隊裡在這隊伍裡一定有競爭學生們會互相較勁最慢跟最弱者最終會被踢出隊伍只有一小部分的人會繼續待在這個運動也許其中一人能參加奧運因此，一個團體之中個人的利益是互相競爭的有時，會有人經由陷害其他團員而獲得個人利益好比在教練面前毀謗團體裡主要的競爭對手但當這個船上的隊員彼此競爭較勁時不同船隊間的競賽也在進行中而當另一個競爭團體出現他們就非得合作不可只因他們在同一艘船上他們想贏就必須合作這聽起來是老生常談但卻是演化上不爭的鐵實 群體篩選論的反對者指出：群體合作固然很好但當一個群體只剩下合作團結者他們將會被投機者利用而後推翻自私的人會投機且剝削合作團體讓我解釋一下假設我們有一群有機體他們可以是細菌或倉鼠他們演化成一群合作者這樣很好，他們一起分享食物，互相幫助他們合作並繁殖壯大如同這個模擬影片所示他們良性互動，逐漸成長當成長成兩倍大，他們分裂繁殖他們的群體數量提升 但假設其中一個出現變異他的基因突變導致他自私自利他利用其他無私付出的夥伴當他們互動時如您所見，綠色壯大但藍色萎縮這就是來龍去脈一開始不過是一個綠色但他在群體裡占盡便宜從其他對象搜刮財富與食物然後很快的，合作者被耗盡投機者取代了他們任何團體如果解決不了這難題就無法促成團體利益群體篩選論就不能成立 但其實，這難題並非無解事實上，大自然早已解決它許多次了大自然絕佳的解決方法就是把大家放進同一艘船舉例來說為什麼每個細胞的線粒體有它們自己的DNA跟細胞核裡的DNA完全分離這是因為本來線粒體是跟細菌分別生存的後來它們合作共生成為超級有機體我們不懂它們如何變成共生體也許一方被另一方被吞噬但當它們共同活在一個細胞膜內它們就是同一個細胞所有的努力，食糧所有分工合作的成果都鎖在同一個細胞膜裡這就是超級有機體 現在，我們再試一次模擬程式把這個超級有機體放進一群投機者、背叛者、作弊者之中看看會發生什麼事超有機體基本上無懈可擊它強大且有效率可以從其它綠色的投機者、背叛者、作弊者取得想得到的資源過不了多久整個群體就被超有機體取代了我這裡所展示的在演化的歷史上被稱做主要過度期達爾文的進化法則沒有改變只是當有新玩家加入整件事就變得不一樣了 這個轉變不是一次性的大自然變異只發生在細菌中它再次發生在約1億2千萬或1億4千萬年前當一些獨居的黃蜂開始建立一些簡單、原始的巢穴當越來越多胡蜂住在一個巢穴中牠們別無選擇只得合作因為很快的，牠們開始面對其它蜂巢的競爭而最有凝聚力的蜂巢會勝出完全符合達爾文的理論 這些早期黃蜂的模式後來被蜜蜂，螞蟻等引用逐漸傳佈到整個世界並改變了整個生態體系它又再次發生不過更驚人的在50萬年前當我們人類的祖先變成有文化的生物他們聚集在火灶旁開始分工合作他們開始在身上繪圖紋身、說方言逐漸的，他們崇拜屬於他們的神當他們屬同一個部落就可以把獲得的利益鎖在部落裡人類的合作開啟了地球上史無前例的強大力量創造的力量與毀滅的力量 當然，人類的團體一點都不如蜂巢那般有凝聚力我們也許一開始看似如此不久後就趨向分裂與毀滅我們的團體模式並不像蜜蜂或螞蟻般堅固事實上就如我們在阿拉伯春天運動所見我們的團體大多被宗教劃分然而當人們群聚因共同的目標而凝聚大山可被剷平 看看這照片裡的人你覺得他們在那是在追求個人利益嗎?或是為追求族群的榮勝捨去自我成為大群體中的一份子 好，以上就是我的演講照著TED的標準方式呈現現在我要把所有重點用更全面的角度在三分鐘內重複一次 (音樂) (影片)Jonathan Haidt: 我們人類有許多不同的宗教經驗就像William James解釋的其中最大的共同點是登上隱藏的階梯捨去自我這階梯引領我們從世俗的，平凡的人生昇華到神聖的境界且緊密的與他人連結我們人類是雙重的如Durkheim所言我們會變成這樣是因多層級的演化篩選如達爾文所言我無法斷言這階梯的存在是演化或是隨機變異但如果它果真是演化這含義極其深遠若這是演化我們勢必要成為虔誠的生物 我不是說我們演化是為了參加龐大的宗教團體這種東西是近代的產物我是說我們進化出一種天性能賦予自然神聖的含意然後加入其他的群體一同群聚在這神聖物品人物或想法的周圍這就是為何政治就像部落一部分世俗，一部分是為了中飽私囊但政治也是為了神聖的理想與其他人緊密結合追求崇高的道德理念這是正邪之間永恆的抗衡而我們老以為我們是正義的一方 最重要的若這階梯是存在的它解釋了人們內心隱藏的在現代生活中永恆的不滿足感因為人類，或多或少就像是群聚的蜜蜂我們在啟蒙開化後離開舊巢破壞舊有體系把自由傳揚給受壓抑的人們人類發揮前所未有的創造力營造財富與舒適生活 現今，我們四處翱翔像蜜蜂一樣歡樂的享受自由但有時，我們自問：難道就是這樣了?我的生命的目的是什麼?是否缺少了什麼?我們這樣想因為人類是雙重的而現今存在的社會價值是建立在低階的私人私利上這樣低階的層次是很舒適沒錯來，參觀我的家庭劇院 現代人生活上的挑戰是去找尋這混亂之中的階梯並登上階梯頂端做些美好與為高尚的事情我維吉尼亞大學的學生們都渴望尋找自己的使命感讓他們可以全心投入、奉獻他們全都在尋找各自的階梯這讓我感到欣慰因為人類不是全然自私自利 大多數的人想克服內心的卑鄙與自私然後成為更遠大目標的一份子這實在的解釋了這個在約400年前凝結成的簡單字句：""沒有人是座孤島與他人完全隔絕所有島嶼都是大陸的一部分我們人同是如此"" 謝謝 (掌聲)"
