Talk	en	zh-tw
jonathan_tepperman_the_risky_politics_of_progress	"The conventional wisdom about our world today is that this is a time of terrible decline. And that's not surprising, given the bad news all around us, from ISIS to inequality, political dysfunction, climate change, Brexit, and on and on. But here's the thing, and this may sound a little weird. I actually don't buy this gloomy narrative, and I don't think you should either. Look, it's not that I don't see the problems. I read the same headlines that you do. What I dispute is the conclusion that so many people draw from them, namely that we're all screwed because the problems are unsolvable and our governments are useless. Now, why do I say this? It's not like I'm particularly optimistic by nature. But something about the media's constant doom-mongering with its fixation on problems and not on answers has always really bugged me. So a few years ago I decided, well, I'm a journalist, I should see if I can do any better by going around the world and actually asking folks if and how they've tackled their big economic and political challenges. And what I found astonished me. It turns out that there are remarkable signs of progress out there, often in the most unexpected places, and they've convinced me that our great global challenges may not be so unsolvable after all. Not only are there theoretical fixes; those fixes have been tried. They've worked. And they offer hope for the rest of us. I'm going to show you what I mean by telling you about how three of the countries I visited — Canada, Indonesia and Mexico — overcame three supposedly impossible problems. Their stories matter because they contain tools the rest of us can use, and not just for those particular problems, but for many others, too. When most people think about my homeland, Canada, today, if they think about Canada at all, they think cold, they think boring, they think polite. They think we say ""sorry"" too much in our funny accents. And that's all true. (Laughter) Sorry. (Laughter) But Canada's also important because of its triumph over a problem currently tearing many other countries apart: immigration. Consider, Canada today is among the world's most welcoming nations, even compared to other immigration-friendly countries. Its per capita immigration rate is four times higher than France's, and its percentage of foreign-born residents is double that of Sweden. Meanwhile, Canada admitted 10 times more Syrian refugees in the last year than did the United States. (Applause) And now Canada is taking even more. And yet, if you ask Canadians what makes them proudest of their country, they rank ""multiculturalism,"" a dirty word in most places, second, ahead of hockey. Hockey. (Laughter) In other words, at a time when other countries are now frantically building new barriers to keep foreigners out, Canadians want even more of them in. Now, here's the really interesting part. Canada wasn't always like this. Until the mid-1960s, Canada followed an explicitly racist immigration policy. They called it ""White Canada,"" and as you can see, they were not just talking about the snow. So how did that Canada become today's Canada? Well, despite what my mom in Ontario will tell you, the answer had nothing to do with virtue. Canadians are not inherently better than anyone else. The real explanation involves the man who became Canada's leader in 1968, Pierre Trudeau, who is also the father of the current prime minister. (Applause) The thing to know about that first Trudeau is that he was very different from Canada's previous leaders. He was a French speaker in a country long-dominated by its English elite. He was an intellectual. He was even kind of groovy. I mean, seriously, the guy did yoga. He hung out with the Beatles. (Laughter) And like all hipsters, he could be infuriating at times. But he nevertheless pulled off one of the most progressive transformations any country has ever seen. His formula, I've learned, involved two parts. First, Canada threw out its old race-based immigration rules, and it replaced them with new color-blind ones that emphasized education, experience and language skills instead. And what that did was greatly increase the odds that newcomers would contribute to the economy. Then part two, Trudeau created the world's first policy of official multiculturalism to promote integration and the idea that diversity was the key to Canada's identity. Now, in the years that followed, Ottawa kept pushing this message, but at the same time, ordinary Canadians soon started to see the economic, the material benefits of multiculturalism all around them. And these two influences soon combined to create the passionately open-minded Canada of today. Let's now turn to another country and an even tougher problem, Islamic extremism. In 1998, the people of Indonesia took to the streets and overthrew their longtime dictator, Suharto. It was an amazing moment, but it was also a scary one. With 250 million people, Indonesia is the largest Muslim-majority country on Earth. It's also hot, huge and unruly, made up of 17,000 islands, where people speak close to a thousand languages. Now, Suharto had been a dictator, and a nasty one. But he'd also been a pretty effective tyrant, and he'd always been careful to keep religion out of politics. So experts feared that without him keeping a lid on things, the country would explode, or religious extremists would take over and turn Indonesia into a tropical version of Iran. And that's just what seemed to happen at first. In the country's first free elections, in 1999, Islamist parties scored 36 percent of the vote, and the islands burned as riots and terror attacks killed thousands. Since then, however, Indonesia has taken a surprising turn. While ordinary folks have grown more pious on a personal level — I saw a lot more headscarves on a recent visit than I would have a decade ago — the country's politics have moved in the opposite direction. Indonesia is now a pretty decent democracy. And yet, its Islamist parties have steadily lost support, from a high of about 38 percent in 2004 down to 25 percent in 2014. As for terrorism, it's now extremely rare. And while a few Indonesians have recently joined ISIS, their number is tiny, far fewer in per capita terms than the number of Belgians. Try to think of one other Muslim-majority country that can say all those same things. In 2014, I went to Indonesia to ask its current president, a soft-spoken technocrat named Joko Widodo, ""Why is Indonesia thriving when so many other Muslim states are dying?"" ""Well, what we realized,"" he told me, ""is that to deal with extremism, we needed to deal with inequality first."" See, Indonesia's religious parties, like similar parties elsewhere, had tended to focus on things like reducing poverty and cutting corruption. So that's what Joko and his predecessors did too, thereby stealing the Islamists' thunder. They also cracked down hard on terrorism, but Indonesia's democrats have learned a key lesson from the dark years of dictatorship, namely that repression only creates more extremism. So they waged their war with extraordinary delicacy. They used the police instead of the army. They only detained suspects if they had enough evidence. They held public trials. They even sent liberal imams into the jails to persuade the jihadists that terror is un-Islamic. And all of this paid off in spectacular fashion, creating the kind of country that was unimaginable 20 years ago. So at this point, my optimism should, I hope, be starting to make a bit more sense. Neither immigration nor Islamic extremism are impossible to deal with. Join me now on one last trip, this time to Mexico. Now, of our three stories, this one probably surprised me the most, since as you all know, the country is still struggling with so many problems. And yet, a few years ago, Mexico did something that many other countries from France to India to the United States can still only dream of. It shattered the political paralysis that had gripped it for years. To understand how, we need to rewind to the year 2000, when Mexico finally became a democracy. Rather than use their new freedoms to fight for reform, Mexico's politicians used them to fight one another. Congress deadlocked, and the country's problems — drugs, poverty, crime, corruption — spun out of control. Things got so bad that in 2008, the Pentagon warned that Mexico risked collapse. Then in 2012, this guy named Enrique Peña Nieto somehow got himself elected president. Now, this Peña hardly inspired much confidence at first. Sure, he was handsome, but he came from Mexico's corrupt old ruling party, the PRI, and he was a notorious womanizer. In fact, he seemed like such a pretty boy lightweight that women called him ""bombón,"" sweetie, at campaign rallies. And yet this same bombón soon surprised everyone by hammering out a truce between the country's three warring political parties. And over the next 18 months, they together passed an incredibly comprehensive set of reforms. They busted open Mexico's smothering monopolies. They liberalized its rusting energy sector. They restructured its failing schools, and much more. To appreciate the scale of this accomplishment, try to imagine the US Congress passing immigration reform, campaign finance reform and banking reform. Now, try to imagine Congress doing it all at the same time. That's what Mexico did. Not long ago, I met with Peña and asked how he managed it all. The President flashed me his famous twinkly smile — (Laughter) and told me that the short answer was ""compromiso,"" compromise. Of course, I pushed him for details, and the long answer that came out was essentially ""compromise, compromise and more compromise."" See, Peña knew that he needed to build trust early, so he started talking to the opposition just days after his election. To ward off pressure from special interests, he kept their meetings small and secret, and many of the participants later told me that it was this intimacy, plus a lot of shared tequila, that helped build confidence. So did the fact that all decisions had to be unanimous, and that Peña even agreed to pass some of the other party's priorities before his own. As Santiago Creel, an opposition senator, put it to me, ""Look, I'm not saying that I'm special or that anyone is special, but that group, that was special."" The proof? When Peña was sworn in, the pact held, and Mexico moved forward for the first time in years. Bueno. So now we've seen how these three countries overcame three of their great challenges. And that's very nice for them, right? But what good does it do the rest of us? Well, in the course of studying these and a bunch of other success stories, like the way Rwanda pulled itself back together after civil war or Brazil has reduced inequality, or South Korea has kept its economy growing faster and for longer than any other country on Earth, I've noticed a few common threads. Now, before describing them, I need to add a caveat. I realize, of course, that all countries are unique. So you can't simply take what worked in one, port it to another and expect it to work there too. Nor do specific solutions work forever. You've got to adapt them as circumstances change. That said, by stripping these stories to their essence, you absolutely can distill a few common tools for problem-solving that will work in other countries and in boardrooms and in all sorts of other contexts, too. Number one, embrace the extreme. In all the stories we've just looked at, salvation came at a moment of existential peril. And that was no coincidence. Take Canada: when Trudeau took office, he faced two looming dangers. First, though his vast, underpopulated country badly needed more bodies, its preferred source for white workers, Europe, had just stopped exporting them as it finally recovered from World War II. The other problem was that Canada's long cold war between its French and its English communities had just become a hot one. Quebec was threatening to secede, and Canadians were actually killing other Canadians over politics. Now, countries face crises all the time. Right? That's nothing special. But Trudeau's genius was to realize that Canada's crisis had swept away all the hurdles that usually block reform. Canada had to open up. It had no choice. And it had to rethink its identity. Again, it had no choice. And that gave Trudeau a once-in-a-generation opportunity to break the old rules and write new ones. And like all our other heroes, he was smart enough to seize it. Number two, there's power in promiscuous thinking. Another striking similarity among good problem-solvers is that they're all pragmatists. They'll steal the best answers from wherever they find them, and they don't let details like party or ideology or sentimentality get in their way. As I mentioned earlier, Indonesia's democrats were clever enough to steal many of the Islamists' best campaign promises for themselves. They even invited some of the radicals into their governing coalition. Now, that horrified a lot of secular Indonesians. But by forcing the radicals to actually help govern, it quickly exposed the fact that they weren't any good at the job, and it got them mixed up in all of the grubby compromises and petty humiliations that are part of everyday politics. And that hurt their image so badly that they've never recovered. Number three, please all of the people some of the time. I know I just mentioned how crises can grant leaders extraordinary freedoms. And that's true, but problem-solving often requires more than just boldness. It takes showing restraint, too, just when that's the last thing you want to do. Take Trudeau: when he took office, he could easily have put his core constituency, that is Canada's French community, first. He could have pleased some of the people all of the time. And Peña could have used his power to keep attacking the opposition, as was traditional in Mexico. Yet he chose to embrace his enemies instead, while forcing his own party to compromise. And Trudeau pushed everyone to stop thinking in tribal terms and to see multiculturalism, not language and not skin color, as what made them quintessentially Canadian. Nobody got everything they wanted, but everyone got just enough that the bargains held. So at this point you may be thinking, ""OK, Tepperman, if the fixes really are out there like you keep insisting, then why aren't more countries already using them?"" It's not like they require special powers to pull off. I mean, none of the leaders we've just looked at were superheroes. They didn't accomplish anything on their own, and they all had plenty of flaws. Take Indonesia's first democratic president, Abdurrahman Wahid. This man was so powerfully uncharismatic that he once fell asleep in the middle of his own speech. (Laughter) True story. So what this tells us is that the real obstacle is not ability, and it's not circumstances. It's something much simpler. Making big changes involves taking big risks, and taking big risks is scary. Overcoming that fear requires guts, and as you all know, gutsy politicians are painfully rare. But that doesn't mean we voters can't demand courage from our political leaders. I mean, that's why we put them in office in the first place. And given the state of the world today, there's really no other option. The answers are out there, but now it's up to us to elect more women and men brave enough to find them, to steal them and to make them work. Thank you. (Applause)"	傳統老一輩對世界的看法認為現在是一個相當墮落的年代。看看我們身邊的壞消息，會有這種看法並不讓人吃驚，從 ISIS 恐怖組織到社會不公、政治無能、氣候變化、英國退出歐盟，等等。但我要說的是，這聽起來可能有點怪。實際上我不贊同這種悲觀的論述，我想你們應該也別贊同。請注意，我並不是沒有注意到這些問題。我和各位閱讀的新聞標題都是一樣的。我不認同標題黨的結論，說的好像我們都很爛一樣，因為好像我們都無法解決問題，而且我們的政府很無能。 我為什麼要說這個？並不是我天生就特別樂觀，但是媒體持續散布這些負面消息，把焦點放在問題上而不是解決方案上，讓我一直很惱怒。 所以幾年前，我決定，嗯， 我是一名記者，我在想，我應該去試試我是否可以藉由採訪世界各地的人民，讓世界變得更好，問問他們在面臨巨大的經濟和政治挑戰時，是如何解決的。另我相當震驚的是，我發現，世界進步的狀況相當驚人，且經常出現在一些最意想不到的地方，而且他們讓我確信我們巨大的全球性挑戰也許沒有想像中的困難。不僅理論上可以解決；而且那些方法已經被試驗過了，它們的確有效。而這也為我們其他人帶來了希望。 我會藉由我去過的三個國家來向各位說明我的看法——加拿大、印尼和墨西哥——他們是如何克服三個似乎不可能解決的問題。他們的故事很重要，因為裡面包含了可以解決我們問題的工具，而且不僅僅可以解決一些特定的問題，還可以解決許多其它的問題。 當大多數人現在想到我的家鄉，加拿大，的時候，他們能想到加拿大的就是...寒冷、無聊，但很有禮貌。他們認為我們說 「對不起 」時的口音很有趣。這些都是事實。 （笑聲） 「對不起 」。 （笑聲） 但是加拿大也很重要，因為他們解決了一個目前很多國家四分五裂的問題：移民。思考一下，加拿大是現今世上最熱情的國家之一，比起其它移民政策寬鬆的國家還要熱情。加拿大的平均移民人數比法國高出四倍，而且加拿大在國外出生的居民是瑞典的兩倍。同時，加拿大去年接納的敘利亞難民比美國接納的還多十倍。 （掌聲） 而且現在加拿大還在接收難民。但是，如果你問加拿大人什麼最讓他們引以為傲，他們把「多元文化」，一個在多數地方不受歡迎的詞語，排在第二，排名在曲棍球之前，曲棍球。（笑聲） 換句話說，當其他國家拼命製造障礙來阻擋外來移民的時候，加拿大人想讓更多的移民進來。 接下來是很有趣的部分。加拿大不是一直都是這樣的。直到20世紀60年代中期，加拿大都奉行帶有明確種族色彩的移民政策。他們把這個政策稱作「白色加拿大」，正如你們所見，他們談的不只有白雪。 那麼過去的加拿大是如何成為現在的加拿大？儘管我住在安大略省的母親告訴你，問題的答案和美德無關。加拿大人不是天生就比其他人善良。真正的答案與在1968年成為加拿大領導人的那個人有關。皮埃爾·特魯多，他也是現任加拿大總理的父親。 （掌聲） 關於特魯多，首先我們要知道他不同於以往的加拿大領導人。他在英文精英長期統治的國家裡，說的是法語。他是知識分子，他甚至有點時髦，說真的，這傢伙有做瑜伽。他也跟披頭四一起瞎混。 （笑聲） 就像所有追求時尚的人一樣，他有時看起來也很另人討厭。但是他還是完成了其它國家從未見過的躍進與轉變。他成功的模式，就我知道，包括了兩個部分。第一，加拿大廢除了過去以種族為標準的老移民規則，取而代之的是新的無種族歧視的規則，這些規則注重教育、工作經驗和語言技能。這些規則顯著增加了新移民者為國家經濟做出貢獻的機率。第二，特魯多制定了世界上第一個提倡多元文化相互融合的官方政策並提出「多元文化」對加拿大「國家認同」的重要概念。 現在，在接下來的數年中，渥太華將繼續提倡這個概念，但是同時，普通的加拿大市民很快就會見證到他們身邊由多元文化所帶來的經濟與實質效益。這兩種影響很快會結合起來創造今日充滿激情、心智開放的加拿大。 現在讓我們看看另一個國家和另一個更嚴重的問題，伊斯蘭恐怖主義。1988年，印尼人民上街抗議，推翻了長期統治的獨裁者，蘇哈托。令人相當驚豔的時刻，但也是可怕的時刻。印尼擁有2億5千萬人口，是世界上最大以穆斯林信徒為主導的國家。印尼也很熱，面積很大，難以管治，它由1萬7千個島嶼組成，人們使用將近1千種語言。蘇哈托是位獨裁者，一位兇惡的獨裁者。但是他也是一位做事相當有效率的暴君，他一直很小心地讓宗教遠離政治。所以專家們也害怕，如果沒有他在控制局面，這個國家會發生動亂，或是極端的宗教主義者會掌控政權，然後把印尼變成熱帶版的伊朗。而這些擔憂，一開始真的發生在印尼了。1999年他們舉辦了第一次的自由選舉，伊斯蘭黨派獲得了36%的選票，然後島嶼戰火開始不斷，成千上萬人因戰亂和恐怖攻擊而喪生。 然而，從那之後，印尼發生了重大的轉變。雖然一般民眾在個人心理層面變得更加虔誠——我在近期的一次旅行中，見到戴頭巾的人比十年前見到的更多——但這個國家的政治方向卻是往另一個方向走。印尼現在相當民主。而伊斯蘭政黨卻漸漸地在失去民心，從2004年大概38%的高度支持降到2014年25%的支持度。至於恐怖主義，現在更是少見。儘管有一些印尼人最近加入了伊斯蘭國，但數量很少，以人均比例來看的話，遠少於比利時。試想其它以穆斯林為主導的國家，他們同樣是相對少的。 在2014年，我去印尼訪問了現任總統，一位叫佐科·維多多的聲音柔和的技術專家政治主義者，我問他，「為什麼當許多其它的穆斯林國家瀕臨滅亡的時候，印尼卻蒸蒸日上呢？」 他告訴我：「嗯，我們了解到如果要解決極端主義，我們得先解決不平等。」 瞧，印尼的宗教政黨，就像其它類似的政黨一樣，都是傾向著重在解決貧困和貪腐之類的問題。這都是維多多和前幾任領導人做的事情，因此伊斯蘭教就沒有發揮的空間。他們也全力打擊恐怖主義，但是印尼的民主人士從過去黑暗的專制年代中學到了寶貴的經驗，那就是打壓只會帶來更多的極端主義。所以他們很小心地在處理這件事。他們動用警察來維安而不是用軍隊。他們只有在足夠的證據下才會抓捕嫌疑人。他們會舉行公開的審問。他們甚至讓伊斯蘭教長進入監獄去勸說伊斯蘭聖戰士，恐怖主義是違背伊斯蘭主義的。所有的這些措施得到了驚人的回報，創造了一個在20年前，人們無法想像的國家。 所以，我會樂觀的原因不是沒有道理的。移民和伊斯蘭極端主義的問題再也不可能無法解決。現在和我一起進行最後一段旅程，接下來是去墨西哥。這三個故事中，墨西哥是最讓我驚訝的，因為大家都知道，這個國家仍然有許多問題沒有解決。但是，幾年前，墨西哥做了一些許多國家，包括法國、印度和美國做不到的事情。墨西哥打破了困擾它多年的政治僵局。 為了了解他們是怎麼做到的，我們需要回到2000年，當時墨西哥終於成為了一個民主國家。墨西哥政治家沒利用剛得到的自由來推動改革。而是利用它們在做鬥爭，國會陷入僵局，而且這個國家面臨的問題——毒品、貧困、犯罪、貪腐——完全失控。事態變得非常惡劣以至於在2008年美國國防部發出警告說，墨西哥政府有垮台的危機。 然後在2012年，這個叫恩里克·潘尼亞·尼托的人透過某種方式當上了總統。一開始，潘尼亞幾乎沒有激勵到人們的信心。沒錯，他很帥氣，但是他來自墨西哥腐敗的老執政黨，制度革命黨，而且他是一位名聲不太好的花心男。事實上，他笑起來像個天真無邪的小男孩，所以在競舉期間，女人會叫他「小甜心」。但是這個小甜心很快就跌破了大家的眼鏡，因為他平息了這個國家三個政黨的激烈鬥爭。而且在過去的18個月中，他們一起通過了一系列難以置信的全面改革措施。他們開放了墨西哥財團壟斷的事業。他們把腐化的能源行業給自由化了。他們重建了每況愈下的學校，還有很多組織。為了了解這些成就有多了不起，試想一下，美國國會正在修正的移民法案、競選經費改革和銀行系統改革法案。現在，試想一下，國會要在同一時間將這些法案通過。墨西哥辦到了。 不久前，我跟潘尼亞碰面，我問他，他是如何做到的。總統給了我一個迷人的微笑—— （笑聲） 然後告訴我一個簡短的答案「妥協」。當然，我追問了更多的細節，最終得到的更長答案是「妥協、妥協、再妥協」。潘尼亞知道他需要儘早建立信任，所以他在選舉結束後就開始和反對黨協商。為了避開特殊利益群體的壓力，他讓會議以小規模形式秘密舉行，很多參與者之後告訴我正是這種親密關係加上共享的龍舌蘭酒，幫助建立了信心。為了讓所有的決議一致通過，潘尼亞甚至讓其它黨派的重大議題比他自己黨派的議題先通過。正如聖地亞哥·克里爾，一名反對黨的議員，對我說的，「你看，我不是說我很特別，或者某個人很特別，而是那個團隊，是那個團隊很特別。」證據呢？潘尼亞就職之後，信守承諾，在經過多年內亂後，帶領墨西哥第一次向前行。太棒了。 現在我們知道了這三個國家是如何克服它們遇到的三個巨大挑戰。這對它們來說很棒，是不是？但，這對我們其他人來說有什麼好處呢？ 嗯，在研究這些國家和一些其它國家成功經歷的過程中，比如盧旺達如何在內戰結束後，讓國家團結起來，或者是巴西如何縮小了貧富差距，或者是韓國如何在經濟上比世界上其它國家增長得更快、更久。我有注意到一些共同的現象。 在我說明這些現象之前，我需要補充一個注意事項。沒錯，我知道所有的國家都有自己特殊的地方。所以你不能單純地把適用於某個國家的措施套用到另一個國家上，然後期待這個措施會一樣有效。具體永久的解決方案也一樣不可能。你需要根據環境，來調整這些方案。 也就是說，藉由挖掘這些故事的精髓，你絕對可以提煉出幾個解決問題的方法，來應用在其它國家、應用在董事會應用在各種情況都行。 第一，擁抱極端。我們觀察到在所有的故事中，轉機總是在危機中產生的。那並不是巧合。以加拿大為例：當特魯多就職時，他面臨了兩個危機。第一，雖然他那地廣、人口稀少的國家急需更多的人口，加拿大比較喜歡的白色人種輸出地——歐洲，才剛從二戰中復甦，人口外移現象已經停止。另一個問題是，加拿大法語和英語社群之間的長期冷戰當時是相當激烈的。魁北克當時威脅要退出加拿大，而且加拿大人實際上因政治問題也在彼此殘殺。國家隨時都得面臨這些危機，對吧？那沒什麼特別的。但是特魯多厲害的地方就是，他明白加拿大如果要擺脫長久以來阻礙改革的危機。加拿大必須打開國門，因為它別無選擇。而且加拿大必須重新定位它的國家認同。同樣，它也別無選擇。兒這給了特魯多一個千載難逢的機會，讓他可以打破陳規，制定新規。跟其他英雄一樣，他相當聰明，所以抓住了這個機會。 第二，不設限的想法有強大的力量。優秀的問題解決專家都是實用主義者，這是他們之間另一個明顯的相似之處。他們會從其他地方找到並偷學最佳的解決方案。而且他們不會讓細節比如政黨、意識形態或是多愁善感的情緒阻礙他們。正如我之前提到的，印尼的民主人士相當聰明他們把伊斯蘭教徒最好的競選承諾拿來自己用。他們甚至邀請一些激進人士加入他們的管理團隊。那種作法嚇壞了很多世俗的印尼人士。但請激進人士來協助管理，這些人不擅長管理的事實很快就暴露了，而且這也讓他們參與了政治的暗門協商和每天無關緊要的政治謾罵。他們的形象因此受損，而且從未成功挽回。 第三，有時要取悅所有人。我知道我剛剛有提到，危機賦予領導人超乎尋常的自由。沒錯，但是解決問題需要的不僅是只有大膽，也需要表現出克制，就像那是你當時最想要做的一件事。以特魯多為例：當他就職的時候，他完全可以優先考慮他的核心選民，也就是加拿大的法語社區，他本來只需要取悅一部分人。同樣，佩尼亞本來也可以用他的權利持續攻擊反對黨，就像墨西哥過去的傳統一樣。但是他選擇接納他的敵人，同時要求他自己的政黨作出妥協。特魯多要求每個人放下黨團意識，放下語言與膚色的隔閡，把多元文化視為他們加拿大人典型的國家象徵。沒有人可以得到他們想要的一切，但每個人都得到了剛剛好的協商成果。 在這一刻，你也許在想，「好的，特普曼，如果這些方法就如你所說的那麼好，那麼為什麼沒有更多的國家採用這些方法呢？」這些方法並不需要特殊的能力才能取得。我的意思是，我們剛才提到的那些領導人也不是超級英雄，他們無法獨自完成事情，而且他們都有很多缺陷。以印尼第一個民主總統，阿卜杜拉赫曼·瓦希德，為例。這個人超瞎，他曾經在自己的演講中睡著了。 （笑聲） 這是真的。 這告訴我們，真正的阻礙不是能力，也不是環境。而是更簡單的事情。做巨大的改變需要承擔高風險，而承擔高風險是令人害怕的。克服那種恐懼需要勇氣，正如各位所知，有勇氣的政治家特別少。但那並不是代表我們選民不能要求我們的政治領袖變得勇敢。我的意思是，那就是我們當初選他們出來的原因，因為考量到目前世界的處境，我們真的別無選擇。 解決問題的方法是存在的，但是現在需要由我們選出足夠勇敢的女性和男性來找出那些解決方案，偷學那些方法，然後讓那些方法奏效。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
