Talk	en	zh-tw
jorge_soto_the_future_of_early_cancer_detection	Almost a year ago, my aunt started suffering back pains. She went to see the doctor and they told her it was a normal injury for someone who had been playing tennis for almost 30 years. They recommended that she do some therapy, but after a while she wasn't feeling better, so the doctors decided to do further tests. They did an x-ray and discovered an injury in her lungs, and at the time they thought that the injury was a strain in the muscles and tendons between her ribs, but after a few weeks of treatment, again her health wasn't getting any better. So finally, they decided to do a biopsy, and two weeks later, the results of the biopsy came back. It was stage 3 lung cancer. Her lifestyle was almost free of risk. She never smoked a cigarette, she never drank alcohol, and she had been playing sports for almost half her life. Perhaps, that is why it took them almost six months to get her properly diagnosed. My story might be, unfortunately, familiar to most of you. One out of three people sitting in this audience will be diagnosed with some type of cancer, and one out of four will die because of it. Not only did that cancer diagnosis change the life of our family, but that process of going back and forth with new tests, different doctors describing symptoms, discarding diseases over and over, was stressful and frustrating, especially for my aunt. And that is the way cancer diagnosis has been done since the beginning of history. We have 21st-century medical treatments and drugs to treat cancer, but we still have 20th-century procedures and processes for diagnosis, if any. Today, most of us have to wait for symptoms to indicate that something is wrong. Today, the majority of people still don't have access to early cancer detection methods, even though we know that catching cancer early is basically the closest thing we have to a silver bullet cure against it. We know that we can change this in our lifetime, and that is why my team and I have decided to begin this journey, this journey to try to make cancer detection at the early stages and monitoring the appropriate  response at the molecular level easier, cheaper, smarter and more accessible than ever before. The context, of course, is that we're living at a time where technology is disrupting our present at exponential rates, and the biological realm is no exception. It is said today that biotech is advancing at least six times faster than the growth rate of the processing power of computers. But progress in biotech is not only being accelerated, it is also being democratized. Just as personal computers or the Internet or smartphones leveled the playing field for entrepreneurship, politics or education, recent advances have leveled it up for biotech progress as well, and that is allowing multidisciplinary teams like ours to try to tackle and look at these problems with new approaches. We are a team of scientists and technologists from Chile, Panama, Mexico, Israel and Greece, and based on recent scientific discoveries, we believe that we have found a reliable and accurate way of detecting several types of cancer at the very early stages through a blood sample. We do it by detecting a set of very small molecules that circulate freely in our blood called microRNAs. To explain what microRNAs are and their important role in cancer, I need to start with proteins, because when cancer is present in our body, protein modification is observed in all cancerous cells. As you might know, proteins are large biological molecules that perform different functions within our body, like catalyzing metabolic reactions or responding to stimuli or replicating DNA, but before a protein is expressed or produced, relevant parts of its genetic code present in the DNA are copied into the messenger RNA, so this messenger RNA has instructions on how to build a specific protein, and potentially it can build hundreds of proteins, but the one that tells them when to build them and how many to build are microRNAs. So microRNAs are small molecules that regulate gene expression. Unlike DNA, which is mainly fixed, microRNAs can vary depending on internal and environmental conditions at any given time, telling us which genes are actively  expressed at that particular moment. And that is what makes microRNAs such a promising biomarker for cancer, because as you know, cancer is a disease of altered gene expression. It is the uncontrolled regulation of genes. Another important thing to consider is that no two cancers are the same, but at the microRNA level, there are patterns. Several scientific studies have shown that abnormal microRNA expression levels varies and creates a unique, specific pattern for each type of cancer, even at the early stages, reflecting the progression of the disease, and whether it's responding to medication or in remission, making microRNAs a perfect, highly sensitive biomarker. However, the problem with microRNAs is that we cannot use existing DNA-based technology to detect them in a reliable way, because they are very short sequences of nucleotides, much smaller than DNA. And also, all microRNAs are very similar to each other, with just tiny differences. So imagine trying to differentiate two molecules, extremely similar, extremely small. We believe that we have found a way to do so, and this is the first time that we've shown it in public. Let me do a demonstration. Imagine that next time you go to your doctor and do your next standard blood test, a lab technician extracts a total RNA, which is quite simple today, and puts it in a standard  96-well plate like this one. Each well of these plates has specific biochemistry that we assign, that is looking for a specific microRNA, acting like a trap that closes only when the microRNA is present in the sample, and when it does, it will shine with green color. To run the reaction, you put the plate inside a device like this one, and then you can put your smartphone on top of it. If we can have a camera here so you can see my screen. A smartphone is a connected computer and it's also a camera, good enough for our purpose. The smartphone is taking pictures, and when the reaction is over, it will send the pictures to our online database for processing and interpretation. This entire process lasts around 60 minutes, but when the process is over, wells that shine are matched  with the specific microRNAs and analyzed in terms of how much and how fast they shine. And then, when this entire process is over, this is what happens. This chart is showing the specific microRNAs present in this sample and how they reacted over time. Then, if we take this specific pattern of microRNA of this person's samples and compare it with existing scientific documentation that correlates microRNA patterns with a specific presence of a disease, this is how pancreatic cancer looks like. This inside is a real sample where we just detected pancreatic cancer. (Applause) Another important aspect of this approach is the gathering and mining of data in the cloud, so we can get results in real time and analyze them with our contextual information. If we want to better understand and decode diseases like cancer, we need to stop treating them as acute, isolated episodes, and consider and measure everything that affects our health on a permanent basis. This entire platform is a working prototype. It uses state-of-the-art molecular biology, a low-cost, 3D-printed device, and data science to try to tackle one of humanity's  toughest challenges. Since we believe early cancer detection should really be democratized, this entire solution costs at least 50 times less than current available methods, and we know that the community can help us accelerate this even more, so we're making the design of the device open-source. (Applause) Let me say very clearly that we are at the very early stages, but so far, we have been able to successfully identify the microRNA pattern of pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer and hepatic cancer. And currently, we're doing a clinical trial in collaboration with the German Cancer Research Center with 200 women for breast cancer. (Applause) This is the single non-invasive, accurate and affordable test that has the potential to dramatically change how cancer procedures and diagnostics have been done. Since we're looking for the microRNA patterns in your blood at any given time, you don't need to know which cancer you're looking for. You don't need to have any symptoms. You only need one milliliter of blood and a relatively simple array of tools. Today, cancer detection happens mainly when symptoms appear. That is, at stage 3 or 4, and I believe that is too late. It is too expensive for our families. It is too expensive for humanity. We cannot lose the war against cancer. It not only costs us billions of dollars, but it also costs us the people we love. Today, my aunt, she's fighting bravely and going through this process with a very positive attitude. However, I want fights like this to become very rare. I want to see the day when cancer is treated easily because it can be routinely diagnosed at the very early stages, and I'm certain that in the very near future, because of this and other breakthroughs that we are seeing every day in the life sciences, the way we see cancer will radically change. It will give us the chance of detecting it early, understanding it better, and finding a cure. Thank you very much. (Applause)	大概一年前我阿姨開始受到背疼折磨她去看了醫生醫生說只是平常傷痛就像一個打過三十年網球的人會受的傷痛醫生建議她去接受一些理療但過了一段時間還是沒有好轉於是醫生進行了進一步檢查做完X光檢查後發現她傷病在於肺部那時醫生還以為病疼只是肋骨間肌肉和肌腱通常的拉傷但是經過幾周的治療阿姨的情況仍沒有好轉最終，醫生決定進行組織切片兩周後切片檢查結果顯示為肺癌第三期 阿姨的生活方式本是很健康的她從不吸菸也從不飲酒她保持運動幾乎從不間斷也許，這也說明為什麼醫生幾乎六個月後才給了她正確的診斷 不幸的是，這個例子可能很多人也經歷過在座各位有三分之一的人可能診斷出有某種類型的癌症並且四分之一的人可能因此喪生不僅是癌症確診會徹底改變一個家庭的生活還有那個診斷的過程反反覆覆，各種測試與不同醫生描述病症討論病情，一遍又一遍這個過程伴隨著壓力和沮喪我阿姨深受其苦這種癌症診斷過程從以前到現在都是如此我們現在有 21 世紀的醫療技術和藥品來治療癌症然而，對於癌症來說，我們仍在應用 20 世紀的診斷程序和診斷過程 今天，我們大多數人還必須等待出現某種症狀才意識到危險今天，大多數人仍然不知道早期癌症的檢測方法即使我們已經明白及早發現癌症才是我們治癒癌症的最有效方式我和我的團隊堅信，在有生之年我們能夠改變這種情況於是我們開始了這一征程致力於在癌症初級階段就檢測到癌症並在分子層面上對相應的治療反應給予監控使其更輕鬆，更廉價，更聰明而且比以往更方便 就在當下我們所處的時代背景下科技正在以指數級的速度改變著我們當下的處境生物領域也不例外據說，現今生物科技的進步速度至少六倍於電腦處理速度的增長然而，生物科技的進步不僅是進步速度加快而且變得更加大眾化就像個人電腦和網路或智慧型手機在商業、政治、教育領域造成的扁平化影響一樣現今的科技進步也在生物科技領域開闢了一片新天地這使得像我們一樣的多學科團隊能夠嘗試從一個新途徑來研究和解決這些生物科技的課題 我們團隊的科學家和工程師來自智利、巴拿馬墨西哥、以色列和希臘基於最新的科學發現相信我們已經發現了一種可靠和準確的方式在非常初期時檢測出若干種癌症而這只需血液樣本就可以完成我們的方法是，檢測一組小血液分子該類血液分子在我們血液裡自由流動我們稱之為：微 RNAs 為了解釋什麼是微RNAs及它在癌症檢測中的作用我們從蛋白質開始說起當癌症開始在我們身體裡出現我們觀察到，在所有癌細胞中蛋白質出現了改變眾所周知蛋白質是一種大型生物分子在我們身體內承擔不同功能例如，促進新陳代謝反應對外部刺激發生反應或是進行 DNA 複製但是，在蛋白質表達或產出之前存在於 DNA 中的相關遺傳密碼被複製到傳訊息的核糖核酸 (RNA) 中這種傳訊息的核糖核酸攜帶著指令來產生出特定一種蛋白質雖然它隱含製造數百種蛋白質的訊息但其中有一段訊息能決定何時生產蛋白質及生產多少這部分就是微 RNAs所以，微 RNAs 就是可以調節基因表達的小型分子與 DNA 攜帶固定訊息不同微 RNAs 在任意時間能根據內外環境不同而變化它決定了哪種基因在特定時刻被有效表達這就是為什麼微 RNAs 有希望成為癌症檢測的生物標記的原因我們知道癌症是一種基因表達變異產生的疾病是基因調節的失控所致另一個重要問題是沒有任何兩種癌症是相同的但在微 RNAs 層面上是可以進行分類的若干科學研究表明異常微 RNAs 的表達會產生不同而各自獨特的類型對應各種不同類型的癌症即使在癌症最初階段微 RNAs 也能反應出病症的發展過程以及藥物治療是否有效或是否處於病症緩解中這使得微 RNAs 成為一個極其有效非常靈敏的生物標記 可是，微 RNAs 的困難在於我們無法使用現有基於 DNA 的技術來可靠地檢測它由於微 RNAs 是非常短的核酸序列遠遠小於 DNA並且，所有的微 RNAs 之間非常相似差別極其微小就像試著去分辨出兩個極其類似、極其微小的分子 我們認為已經發現一個分辨的辦法這是我們首次公佈於眾我來示範一下想像你下次去看醫生要做一次血常規檢測一名實驗技術員提取了一條完整 RNA這在當今是很簡單的然後放入一個這樣的標準 96 孔盤中這些標準試劑盤中，每一個孔中都有我們預先分配好的特定生化試劑以對應找出特定微 RNAs這看來像一個設置好的陷阱只有當血液樣本中的微 RNAs 被檢測到它開始閃現綠光為完成這一反應你要把試劑盤放入這樣一個設備當中接下來把智慧型手機放在它上方請把攝影機對準這裡讓大家可以看到我的手機螢幕手機和電腦連接在一起手機同時也是攝影機足夠實現我們的目標手機在照相當反應結束後手機把圖片發送到我們的線上數據庫中進行處理和解讀全過程大約持續 60 分鐘當程序結束後閃光的試劑孔與特定微 RNAs 配對分析根據閃光的亮度和頻率得出分析結果當全部過程完成後這是我們得到的結果這張圖顯示了血液樣本中所含的特定微 RNAs和它們隨著時間的變化反應接下來，我們將這一樣本中的微 RNAs 的特定類型總結出來與現有的科學文獻進行比較由於這些文獻已將特定的微 RNAs 類型與特定的疾病表現進行了關聯我們檢測出樣本結果為胰腺癌剛檢測出來的胰腺癌樣本是一個真實的案例 （掌聲） 我們方法的另一重要部分是在雲端進行數據的收集和整理這使我們能即時得到檢測結果並與相關訊息結合分析如果我們希望更加了解和揭秘類似癌症這樣的疾病 我們應該停止那種治療突發、孤立疾病的治療方式開始分析和評估所有因素所有會影響我們長期健康的因素這一檢測系統還是一個原型機它應用了最先進的分子生物科技通過低成本的 3D 列印技術製作及數據庫技術來嘗試解決一個人類最艱難的挑戰我們相信，癌症早期檢測方法應該被推廣普及化我們的整套檢測方案相對目前的檢測方法費用節省至少 50 倍我們也知道相關行業的關注能幫助我們更迅速完善推廣這一方案現在我們將設備的設計方案免費公開 （掌聲） 你們要知道我們目前仍處於起步階段但我們已經可以成功分辨出了一些癌症的微 RNAs 類型如胰腺癌、肺癌乳腺癌、肝癌目前，我們正在進行一項臨床試驗實驗是與德國癌症研究中心合作有 200 位女性參與的乳癌臨床試驗 （掌聲）這是一個單項的、無創傷準確和可負擔的檢測方案可能會徹底改變以往癌症的診斷程序和診斷方法因為我們檢測的是任意時間下血液內的微 RNAs 類型所以你不必知道所要檢測的特定癌症類型你也不用等到感覺到有任何症狀只需要一毫升血液樣本和一系列相對很簡單的工具 當前，癌症檢測通常發生於患病症狀顯現後這已經是癌症的第三或四階段我認為這已經太遲了對一個家庭來說代價太大了對全人類來說代價也太大了我們不能在與癌症的鬥爭中失敗失敗的損失不僅是無數的金錢還會失去我們所愛的人如今，我的阿姨正勇敢抗爭著她以積極樂觀的態度面對這一過程可是，我還要努力把這樣的抗爭變得越來越少出現我希望有一天癌症可以輕鬆治癒因為，在常規體檢中初期癌症就可以檢測到我堅信不久的將來因為這套檢測系統和其他生命科學領域不斷出現的突破我們看待癌症的方式將會根本改變對癌症，我們將有機會及早發現深入了解徹底治癒 感謝大家 （掌聲）
