Talk	en	zh-tw
joseph_ravenell_how_barbershops_can_keep_men_healthy	"What do you see? Most of you see a barbershop, but I see an opportunity: an opportunity for health, an opportunity for health equity. For black men, the barbershop is not just a place where you get your hair cut or your beard trimmed. No, it's much more than that. Historically, the barbershop has been a safe haven for black men. It's a place where we go for friendship, solidarity and solace. It's a place where we go to get away from the stress of the grind of work and sometimes home life. It's a place where we don't have to worry about how we're being perceived by the outside world. It's a place where we don't feel threatened, or threatening. It's a place of loyalty and trust. For that reason, it's one of the few places where we can fearlessly be ourselves and just ... talk. The talk, the shop talk, the conversation, that is the essence of the black barbershop. I can remember going to the barbershop with my dad as a kid. We went to Mr. Mike's barbershop every other Saturday. And like clockwork, the same group of men would be there every time we went, either waiting on their favorite barber or just soaking up the atmosphere. I can remember the jovial greeting that warmly welcomed us every time we went. ""Hey Rev,"" they would say to my dad. He's a local pastor, and they treated him like a celebrity. ""Hey young fella, how you doing?"" they would say to me, making me feel just as special. I remember the range of the conversations was immense. The men would talk about politics and sports and music and world news, national news, neighborhood news. There was some talk about women and what it was like to be a black man in America. But many times they also talked about health. The conversations about health were lengthy and deep. The men often recounted their doctor's recommendations to cut salt in their diet or to eat less fried foods or to stop smoking or to reduce stress. They talked about the different ways you could reduce stress, like simplifying one's love life — (Laughter) all ways to treat high blood pressure. There's a lot of talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop. That's because almost 40 percent of black men have it. That means that almost every single black man either has high blood pressure or knows a black man who has it. Sometimes, those conversations in the barbershop would be about what happens when high blood pressure is not adequately addressed. ""Say, did you hear about Jimmy? He had a stroke."" ""Did you hear about Eddie? He died last week. Massive heart attack. He was 50."" More black men die from high blood pressure than from anything else, even though decades of medical wisdom and science have demonstrated that death from high blood pressure can be prevented with timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment. So why is high blood pressure so differentially deadly for black men? Because too often, high blood pressure is either untreated or under-treated in black men, in part because of our lower engagement with the primary healthcare system. Black men, in particular those with high blood pressure, are less likely to have a primary care doctor than other groups. But why? Some of our earliest research on black men's health revealed that for many, the doctor's office is associated with fear, mistrust, disrespect, and unnecessary unpleasantness. The doctor's office is only a place that you go when you don't feel well. And when you do go, you might wait for hours only to get the run-around and to be evaluated by a stoic figure in a white coat who only has 10 minutes to give you and who doesn't value the talk. So it's no wonder that some men don't want to be bothered and skip going to the doctor altogether, especially if they feel fine. But herein lies the problem. You can feel just fine while high blood pressure ravages your most vital organs. This is Denny Moe, owner of Denny Moe's Superstar Barbershop in Harlem. I've been lucky enough to have Denny as my barber for the last eight years. He said to me once, ""Hey Doc, you know, lots of black men trust their barbers more than they trust their doctors."" This was stunning to me, at first, but not so much when you think about it. Black men have been with their current barbers on average as long as I've been with Denny, about eight years. And black men see their barbers about every two weeks. Not only do you trust your barber with your look and with your style, but you also trust him with your secrets and sometimes your life. Denny, like many barbers, is more than just an artist, a businessman and confidant. He's a leader and a passionate advocate for the well-being of his community. The very first time I walked into Denny Moe's shop, he wasn't just cutting hair. He was also orchestrating a voter registration drive to give a voice to his customers and his community. With this kind of activism, and community investment that typifies the black barbershop, of course the barbershop is a perfect place to talk about high blood pressure and other health concerns in the community. First, the barbershop is not a medical setting, and so it doesn't have all the negative psychological baggage that comes along with that. When you're in a barbershop, you're in your territory, and you're among friends who share your history, your struggle and your health risks. Second, because the barbershop is a place of connection, loyalty and trust, it's a place where you're more open to have a conversation about health and especially about high blood pressure. After all, conversations about high blood pressure have all the elements of great shop talk: stress and high blood pressure, food and high blood pressure, relationships and high blood pressure, and yes, what it's like to be a black man in America and high blood pressure. But you can do more than just talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop. You can concretely take action. Here we have an opportunity to partner with the Denny Moe's of the world and empower communities to address the health inequities that uniquely affect it. When high blood pressure screening expanded from clinics and hospitals to communities in the 1960s and '70s, black physicians like Dr. Eli Saunders in Baltimore and Dr. Keith Ferdinand in New Orleans were at the forefront of bringing health promotion to community hubs in urban black neighborhoods. These pioneers paved the way for my professional journey with barbershops and health, which began in Chicago in medical school. The very first research project that I worked on as a medical student was to help design healthcare interventions that would appeal to black men. We conducted about a dozen focus groups with a broad cross-section of black men, and we learned that for them, being healthy was as much about being perceived as healthy as it was about feeling healthy, and that feeling good went hand in hand with looking good. This work led to the development of Project Brotherhood, a community clinic founded by Dr. Eric Whitaker that provided tailored healthcare to black men. Part of this tailored care involved having a barber on the premises to reward the men who came for needed healthcare with a free haircut, to let the men know that we, too, valued how they looked as well as how they felt, and that what was important to them was also important to us. But while there's only one Project Brotherhood, there are thousands of black barbershops where the intersection of health and haircuts can be cultivated. The next stop on my journey was Dallas, Texas, where we learned that barbers were not only willing but fully able to roll up their sleeves and participate in delivering needed health services to improve the health of their customers and their community. We teamed up with an amazing cadre of black barbers and taught them how to measure blood pressure and how to counsel their customers and refer them to doctors to help manage high blood pressure. The barbers were not only willing to do it but they were damn good at it. Over a three-year period, the barbers measured thousands of blood pressures resulting in hundreds of black men being referred to doctors for medical care of their high blood pressure. These barber-doctor partnerships resulted in a 20 percent increase in the number of men who were able to achieve target blood pressure levels and a three-point drop, on average, in the blood pressure of each participant. If we were to extrapolate that three point drop to every single black man with high blood pressure in America, we would prevent 800 heart attacks, 500 strokes and 900 deaths from high blood pressure in just one year. And our experience with barbershops has been no different in New York City, where my journey has currently led me. With an incredible team of diverse research assistants, community health workers and volunteers, we've been able to partner with over 200 barbershops and other trusted community venues to reach over 7,000 older black men. And we've offered high blood pressure screening and counseling to each and every one of them. Thanks to Denny Moe and the myriad other barbers and community leaders who shared the vision of opportunity and empowerment to make a difference in their communities, we've been able to not only lower blood pressure in our participants, but we've also been able to impact other health indicators. So what do you see? What is your barbershop? Where is that place for you where people who are affected by a unique problem can meet a unique solution? When you find that place, see the opportunity. Thank you. (Applause)"	你看到什麼？多數人看到的是理髮店，但是我見到一個機會：一個促進健康的機會，一個促進人人都可以享受健康的機會。 對黑人來說，理髪店不單只是你剪頭髮或剃鬍子的地方。它有更重大的意義。自古理髪店就是黑人的安樂窩。那裡是可以結交朋友，大家團結一致和互相安慰的地方。在那裡我們可以遠離工作的折磨，避開家庭的壓力。我們在那裡不用擔心外界怎樣看待我們。不怕受到別人脅迫，或者覺得身處險境。那是一個充滿忠誠和信任的地方。因此，那裡是我們少數可以自在做自己，無憂無慮地聊天的地方。聊天、傾行話、閒扯，都是黑人理髮店的精髓。 我記得少時跟爸爸到理髮店。每隔一個星期六，我們到麥克的理髪店。好像發條鐘錶一樣，每次到那裡都是同一批男子，他們要不是在等自己喜愛的理髮師，就是純來感受這裡的氣氛。 我記得每次我們來到小店都會受到愉快親切的歡迎。 「嗨，老牧！」他們會這樣和我爸說話。爸爸是當地的牧師，他們待他如名人。 「嗨，年輕人，你好嗎？」他們就是這樣對我說話，讓我覺得自己就跟爸爸一樣與眾不同。 我記得他們的話題很廣泛。他們會談論政治、體育、音樂和世界新聞、國內新聞，本地新聞。有時談到女人和美國黑人的生存現狀。但是很多時候他們談論關於健康的話題，而且花很長時間深入交談。他們常常詳細地敍述醫生的建議，例如減鹽飲食、少吃煎炸食物、戒菸、減壓。他們談論減壓的不同方法，例如過簡單的愛情生活—— （笑聲） 各種治療高血壓的方法。 理髮店裡有很多關於高血壓的談話。因為四成的黑人男士患有高血壓。這意味著幾乎每一個黑人不是自己有高血壓，就是認識另一個患有高血壓的黑人。 有時這些人在理髮店的對話會講到當人們不重視高血壓會發生什麼事。 「你有沒有聽到吉米的消息？他中風了。」 「你聽說艾迪的事情沒？他上星期去世了，因為嚴重的心臟病發。他才 50 歲。」 黑人高血壓死亡率要高於其他疾病，雖然數十年來醫學的智慧和科學已經證明及時的診斷加上適當的治療可以預防病人死於高血壓。 為什麼高血壓對黑人特別致命？這是因為黑人常常不是沒有看醫生就是沒有接受足夠的治療，部分的原因是我們很少參與健保。尤其是那些患高血壓的黑人比起其他群體更可能沒有家庭醫生。 但是為什麼？我們有一些早期關於黑人健康狀況的調查，表明對於很多黑人來說，診所都讓人聯想到恐懼、缺乏信任、不受尊重、還有不愉快。診所只是在你感到不適時要去的地方。你真的去了那裡，可能要等很久，只聽到一輪託詞，然後接受一個面無表情、穿著白袍的醫生看診，他只給你 10 分鐘時間看病，而且並不重視你們之間的對話。所以難怪有些人懶得麻煩，根本不去看醫生，尤其是他們感覺精神不錯的時候。 但是這裡存在一個問題。即使你的高血壓威脅著你重要器官的時候，你也不會感覺不適。 這是丹尼 · 默，紐約哈林區「丹尼 · 默超級明星理髮店」的店主。最近八年，我都很幸運地有丹尼做我的理髮師。 他有一次跟我說：「嗨，醫生，你知道嗎，比起相信自己的醫生，很多黑人更相信自己的理髮師。」 這一開始真的讓我很驚訝，但當你仔細想想的時候好像就是這樣。平均而言，黑人和他們的理髮師認識的時間，就和我和丹尼認識的時間一樣長，就是差不多八年。而且黑人差不多每兩週理一次髮。你不僅相信髮型師能夠照顧好你的髮型和外貌，你還願意和他分享你的秘密，甚至有時以生命信任他。和很多髮型師一樣，丹尼不僅僅是一個藝術家，一個商人和知己。他還是一個促進社區健康的領袖和熱情的倡導者。我第一次走進丹尼的店時，他不僅在理髮，他還在為他的顧客和社區發聲而安排選民登記運動。 因為黑人理髮店的典型特徵是這種積極精神和社區投資，難怪理髮店會成為談論高血壓及社區其他健康問題的首選場所。 首先，理髮店不是醫療環境，所以不會給人帶來負面的心理負擔。當你在理髮店的時候，你在自己的地盤，有知道你的過去和艱辛，及健康風險的朋友陪伴。 第二，因為理髮店是個充滿聯繫、忠誠和信任的地方，在這裡你能更輕鬆地談論健康話題，尤其是高血壓。畢竟，有關高血壓的談話有所有店裡閒聊的要素：壓力和高血壓，食物和高血壓，人際交往和高血壓，噢還有，在美國當黑人的感受和高血壓。 但是在理髮店裡你不僅能談論高血壓，你還能做更多。你能採取具體的行動。現在我們有一個和世界上其他丹尼 · 默合夥的機會，去啟發社區重視其獨特的健康不平等問題。在 1960 及 1970 年代，當高血壓篩檢從診所和醫院擴大到社區時，像巴爾的摩的伊利 · 桑德斯和新奧爾良的肯斯 · 芬迪南德這樣的黑人醫生，把提倡健康活動帶到城市中黑人街區的社區中心前線。 這些先驅為我專注於理髮店和健康關係的專業道路奠基，這事業開始於芝加哥的醫學院。 作為醫學生，我進行的第一個研究計劃就是去協助設計能吸引到黑人的醫保創新。我們對 12 組焦點團體做實驗，其中有各個階層的黑人，我們從中學到了很多，身體健康既是各項指標正常，也是心裡感覺到健康，而且感覺愉快和外表好看是緊密聯繫的。這個研究促進了「黑人兄弟診所」組織的發展，由艾力克 · 維塔克醫生開辦，為專為黑人打造的社區醫療診所。這個醫療的一部分包括有駐診理髮師給來看病的人一次免費的理髮服務，這讓他們知道我們既重視他們的外貌，也重視他們的感覺，對他們而言很重要的東西，我們同樣看重。 儘管只有一個「黑人兄弟診所」組織，卻有上千個將促進健康和理髮結合的黑人理髮店，然後我的促進健康專業旅程到了德州的達拉斯，我們在那裡了解到理髮師不僅願意，還有足夠的能力捲起袖子親身參與，為他們的顧客和社區提供必要的醫療服務，以促進他們的健康。我們和一群優秀的黑人理髮師合作，教會他們怎樣測量血壓，怎樣與顧客商談，並把他們轉到診所，以控制和治療高血壓。這些理髮師不僅願意這樣做，他們還做得超好。三年以來，這群理髮師測量了上千人的血壓，讓數百位黑人轉到診所接受高血壓的治療。這種理髮師和醫生的結合方式讓血壓控制在標準值內的人數增長了 20%，平均每個參與者的血壓也都下降了很多。假如我們能讓美國每個患有高血壓的黑人的血壓都下降很多，就能防止 800 人次的心臟病，500 人次的中風和 900 人次因為高血壓造成的死亡，在短短一年內達到。 我的旅程最近到了紐約州，我們與理髮店的合作同樣成功。我們優秀的隊伍有不同的研究助理，社區醫療工作者和志工，我們已經和超過 200 家理髮店及其他值得信任的社區場所合作，惠及超過 7000 個年老的黑人。我們還為每一個人提供高血壓檢測和建議。感謝丹尼 · 默和無數的理髮師及社區領袖，他們共同懷有幫助社區發展的機會和賦權的願景，我們不僅能幫助參與者降低血壓，我們也能夠引入其他的健康指數。 那麼你們現在看到什麼？你的理髮店在哪裡？在人們受到獨特問題的困擾時，能提供獨特解決方案的地方在哪裡？當你能找到那個地方時，便能看到機會。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
