Talk	en	zh-tw
jose_miguel_sokoloff_how_christmas_lights_helped_guerrillas_put_down_their_guns	"So, I thought a lot about the first word I'd say today, and I decided to say ""Colombia."" And the reason, I don't know how many of you have visited Colombia, but Colombia is just north of the border with Brazil. It's a beautiful country with extraordinary people, like me and others — (Laughter) — and it's populated with incredible fauna, flora. It's got water; it's got everything to be the perfect place. But we have a few problems. You may have heard of some of them. We have the oldest standing guerrilla in the world. It's been around for over 50 years, which means that in my lifetime, I have never lived one day  of peace in my country. This guerrilla — and the main group is the FARC guerrillas, Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia — they have financed their war by kidnapping, by extortion, by getting into the drug trade, by illegal mining. There has been terrorism. There have been random bombs. So it's not good. It's not really good. And if you look at the human cost of this war over 50 years, we have had more than 5.7 million displaced population. It's one of the biggest displaced populations in the world, and this conflict has cost over 220,000 lives. So it's a little bit like the Bolívar wars again. It's a lot of people who have died unnecessarily. We are now in the middle of peace talks, and we've been trying to help resolve this problem peacefully, and as part of that, we decided to try something completely lateral and different: Christmas lights. So Christmas lights, and you're saying, what the hell is this guy going to talk about? I am going to talk about gigantic trees that we put in nine strategic  pathways in the jungle covered with Christmas lights. These trees helped us  demobilize 331 guerrillas, roughly five percent of the guerrilla force at the time. These trees were lit up at night, and they had a sign beside them that said, ""If Christmas can come to the jungle, you can come home. Demobilize. At Christmas, everything is possible."" So how do we know these trees worked? Well, we got 331, which is okay, but we also know that not a lot of guerrillas saw them, but we know that a lot of guerrillas heard about them, and we know this because we are constantly talking to demobilized guerrillas. So let me take you back four years before the trees. Four years before the trees, we were approached by the government to help them come up with a communications strategy to get as many guerrillas as we could out of the jungle. The government had a military strategy, it had a legal strategy, it had a political strategy, but it said, ""We don't really have a communications strategy, and it probably would be a good thing to have,"" so we decided to immediately jump into this, because it is an opportunity to affect the outcome of the conflict with the things that we do, with the tools that we have. But we didn't know very much about it. We didn't understand in Colombia,  if you live in the cities, you're very far away from where  the war is actually happening, so you don't really understand it, and we asked the government  to give us access to as many demobilized guerrillas as possible. And we talked to about 60 of them before we felt we fully understood the problem. We talked about — they told us why  they had joined the guerrillas, why the left the guerrillas, what their dreams were, what their frustrations were, and from those conversations came the underlying insight that has guided this whole campaign, which is that guerrillas are as much prisoners of their organizations as the people they hold hostage. And at the beginning, we were so touched by these stories, we were so amazed by these stories, that we thought that maybe  the best way to talk to the guerrillas was to have them talk to themselves, so we recorded about a hundred different stories during the first year, and we put them on the radio and television so that the guerrillas in the jungle could hear stories, their stories, or stories similar to theirs, and when they heard them, they decided to go out. I want to tell you one of these stories. This person you see here  is Giovanni Andres. Giovanni Andres is 25 when we took that picture. He had been seven years in the guerrilla, and he had demobilized very recently. His story is the following: He was recruited when he was 17, and sometime later, in his squadron, if you will, this beautiful girl was recruited, and they fell in love. Their conversations were about what their family was going to be like, what their kids' names would be, how their life would be when they left the guerrilla. But it turns out that love is very strictly forbidden in the lower ranks of the guerrilla, so their romance was discovered and they were separated. He was sent very far away, and she was left behind. She was very familiar with the territory, so one night, when she was on guard, she just left, and she went to the army, she demobilized, and she was one of the persons that we had the fortune to talk to, and we were really touched by this story, so we made a radio spot, and it turns out, by chance, that far away, many,  many kilometers north, he heard her on the radio, and when he heard her on the radio, he said, ""What am I doing here? She had the balls to get out. I need to do the same thing."" And he did. He walked for two days and two nights, and he risked his life and he got out, and the only thing he wanted was to see her. The only thing that was in his mind was to see her. The story was, they did meet. I know you're wondering if they did meet. They did meet. She had been recruited when she was 15, and she left when she was 17, so there were a lot of other complications, but they did eventually meet. I don't know if they're together now, but I can find out. (Laughter) But what I can tell you is that our radio strategy was working. The problem is that it was working in the lower ranks of the guerrilla. It was not working with the commanders, the people that are more difficult to replace, because you can easily recruit but you can't get the older commanders. So we thought, well, we'll use the same strategy. We'll have commanders talking to commanders. And we even went as far as asking ex-commanders of the guerrilla to fly on helicopters with microphones telling the people that used to fight with them, ""There is a better life out there,"" ""I'm doing good,"" ""This is not worth it,"" etc. But, as you can all imagine, it was very easy to counteract, because what was the guerrilla going to say? ""Yeah, right, if he doesn't do that, he's going to get killed."" So it was easy, so we were suddenly left with nothing, because the guerrilla were spreading the word that all of those things are done because if they don't do it,  they're in danger. And somebody, some brilliant person in our team, came back and said, ""You know what I noticed? I noticed that around Christmastime, there have been peaks of demobilization since this war has started."" And that was incredible, because that led us to think  that we needed to talk to the human being and not to the soldier. We needed to step away from talking from government to army, from army to army, and we needed to talk about the universal values, and we needed to talk about humanity. And that was when the Christmas tree happened. This picture that I have here, you see this is the planning of the Christmas trees, and that man you see there with the three stars, he's Captain Juan Manuel Valdez. Captain Valdez was the first  high-ranking official to give us the helicopters  and the support we needed to put these Christmas trees up, and he said in that meeting something that I will never forget. He said, ""I want to do this because being generous makes me stronger, makes my men feel stronger."" And I get very emotional when I remember him because he was killed later in combat and we really miss him, but I wanted you all to see him, because he was really, really important. He gave us all the support to put up the first Christmas trees. What happened later is that the guerrillas who came out during the Christmas tree  operation and all of that said, ""That's really good, Christmas trees are really cool, but you know what? We really don't walk anymore. We use rivers."" So rivers are the highways of the jungle, and this is something we learned, and most of the recruiting was being done in and around the river villages. So we went to these river villages, and we asked the people, and probably some of them were direct acquaintances of the guerrillas. We asked them, ""Can you send guerrillas a message?"" We collected over 6,000 messages. Some of them were notes saying, get out. Some of them were toys. Some of them were candy. Even people took off their jewelry, their little crosses and religious things, and put them in these floating balls that we sent down the rivers so that they could be picked up at night. And we sent thousands of these down the rivers, and then picked them up later if they weren't. But lots of them were picked up. This generated, on average, a demobilization every six hours, so this was incredible and it was about: Come home at Christmas. Then came the peace process, and when the peace process started, the whole mindset of the guerrilla changed. And it changed because it makes you think, ""Well, if there's a peace process, this is probably going to be over. At some point I'm going to get out."" And their fears completely changed, and their fears were not about, ""Am I going to get killed?"" Their fears were, ""Am I going to be rejected? When I get out of this, am I going to be rejected?"" So the past Christmas,  what we did was we asked — we found 27 mothers of guerrillas, and we asked them to give us  pictures of their children, when they only could recognize themselves, so as not to put their lives in danger, and we asked them to give the most motherly message you can get, which is, ""Before you were a guerrilla, you were my child, so come home, I'm waiting for you."" You can see the pictures here. I'll show you a couple. (Applause) Thank you. And these pictures were placed in many different places, and a lot of them came back, and it was really, really beautiful. And then we decided to work with society. So we did mothers around Christmastime. Now let's talk about the rest of the people. And you may be aware of this or not, but there was a World Cup this year, and Colombia played really well, and it was a unifying moment for Colombia. And what we did was tell the guerrillas, ""Come, get out of the jungle. We're saving a place for you."" So this was television, this was  all different types of media saying, ""We are saving a place for you."" The soldier here in the commercial says, ""I'm saving a place for you right here in this helicopter so that you can get out of this jungle and go enjoy the World Cup."" Ex-football players, radio announcers, everybody was saving a place for the guerrilla. So since we started this work a little over eight years ago, 17,000 guerrillas have demobilized. I do not — (Applause) Thank you. I don't want to say in any way that it only has to do with what we do, but what I do know is that our work and the work that we do may have helped a lot of them start thinking about demobilization, and it may have helped a lot of them take the final decision. If that is true, advertising is still one of the most powerful tools of change that we have available. And I speak not only my behalf, but on behalf of all the colleagues I see here who work in advertising, and of all the team that has worked with me to do this, that if you want to change the world, or if you want to achieve  peace, please call us. We'd love to help. Thank you. (Applause)"	話說我想了很久今天該用哪個詞彙開場呢？最後我決定用「哥倫比亞」原因是，我不知道你們有多少人去過哥倫比亞不過哥倫比亞就在巴西的邊界以北是個十分美麗的國家擁有很多優秀的人民譬如我本人啦（觀眾笑），還有其他人而且，這國家遍佈著不可思議的動植物群山明水秀、應有盡有是個十分完美的地方 但我們仍存在一些問題你們可能也有所耳聞我們有世上現存最悠久的游擊隊大約有超過五十年的歷史了也就是說，在我有生之年我的國家沒有一天是和平的這游擊隊，主要是由 FARC 游擊隊組成即「哥倫比亞革命武裝軍」他們的戰備資金，來自於擄人勒贖以及毒品交易、非法礦採等等還有一些恐怖主義、無差別炸彈攻擊等所以說，這很不好，真的非常糟糕那，如果你看看這 50 多年來爭戰耗費的人力成本我們有超過 570 萬的人民被迫離開自己的家園這是世界上最大規模的人口遷移這樣的武力衝突奪走了超過 22 萬人的生命有點像玻利瓦之戰的歷史重演有很多無辜的人民枉死 現在和平會談正在進行中但一路以來我們一直想協助用和平的方式解決問題在這樣的前提下我們決定嘗試繞點路，一個完全不同的方法：「聖誕燈光」 所以，「聖誕燈光」你可能會說：「這傢伙是在說什麼鬼話？」我要說的是，巨大的樹我們選擇了九條路線把這些樹佈置在叢林裡並在樹上掛滿了聖誕燈飾這些樹起了作用有 331 名游擊隊員因此瓦解這大約是當時游擊隊軍力的百分之五晚上點亮這些樹並且他們在樹旁樹立了標語牌上面寫著：「若聖誕節能降臨此地，你們應可回家過節。撤退吧。聖誕佳節之時，沒有什麼不可能的。」 所以，我們怎麼知道這些樹有效呢？嗯，331 這數字還算不錯的成果但我們也知道並沒有很多的游擊隊員看到這些樹但我們知道有很多人聽說了這件事我們會知道是因為我們一直與已退出的游擊隊員保持聯繫 讓我帶你們回到還沒有佈置這些樹的四年之前還沒有佈置這些樹的四年之前，政府來找我們希望我們幫忙想出溝通的策略盡可能讓更多游擊隊員離開叢林政府是有軍事策略也有訂下法律策略也有政治策略，但政府說：「我們倒沒有溝通策略，如果有的話應該會更好。」所以我們立刻投入計劃，因為這是改變這場衝突結果的機會是我們的拿手好戲用手上有的手段工具就能做到 但我們其實對游擊隊一竅不通我們不了解在哥倫比亞發生......如果你住在城市裡那些真實發生的狀況其實離你很遙遠所以你不會瞭解我們請政府開放管道讓我們盡可能接觸到那些投誠的游擊隊員我們大約和 60 位隊員談過之後我們才真正、完整地了解這個問題我們談到了他們加入游擊隊的原因離開游擊隊的原因、他們有什麼夢想他們遇到哪些挫折從這些對話中我們思量背後隱含的意義導引出這整場行動那就是，這些游擊隊員們其實一如囚犯，被組織掌控著淪為人質一般 剛開始，我們聽了這些故事非常感動這些故事深深撼動了我們因此我們覺得和游擊隊溝通的最好方式就是讓自己人去說服他們所以第一年我們錄下了差不多一百則故事然後在廣播電視等媒體播放讓這些叢林裡的游擊隊員能夠聽到這些故事，他們的故事和他們自身相似的故事當他們聽到這些故事會決定要離開 我想告訴你們其中一則故事你們看到的這個人叫做喬安尼·安德烈斯喬安尼·安德烈斯二十五歲的時候我們拍下這張照片他在游擊隊裡待了七年然後他最近退出了他的故事是這樣的：他十七歲的時候加入一段時間之後在他的「連」上，姑且稱為「連」吧有一位美麗的女孩加入了他們相戀交往他們聊到未來的家庭小孩名字要取什麼脫離游擊隊之後會是怎樣的生活但結果卻是基層的游擊隊員嚴禁戀愛交往他們的關係被發現之後就被強制隔離他被遣送到遠方戰區而她則留置下來她很熟悉當地的地形所以她在某個當值的晚上她就逃了她投誠軍方，策反了我們有幸可以訪問到她而我們聽到這個故事很感動因此找了個時段廣播放送而且就這麼剛好在遙遠的、多少公里之外的北方他剛好在廣播中聽到了她的聲音當他聽到廣播中的她他想：「我到底在幹嘛？她有膽逃出去，我可以像她一樣。」他成功了他走了兩天兩夜他不顧生命危險，逃了出來他一心只想再見到她他腦海中唯一想的就是再見她一面故事的後續是，他們見到面了我知道你們想問他們到底有沒有見到面他們見到了面她十五歲的時候加入十七歲的時候離開這中間還有很多複雜的問題但他們最終見到了彼此我不知道他們現在是不是在一起我可以去問一下（觀眾笑）但我可以告訴你們廣播放送的策略是有用的 問題在於，這只適用於低階的游擊隊員但對高階的指揮官就沒有用了那些高階隊員較難取代因為募集年輕隊員容易卻很難找到年紀大一點的指揮官所以我們就想，好吧那我們就依樣畫葫蘆我們讓長官們去和長官們喊話而且我們甚至真的去找了那些游擊隊的退役指揮官讓他們坐著直昇機，提著擴音器告訴那些曾經並肩作戰的隊友：「外面可以過上更好的生活。」「我現在過得很好。」「做這樣的事不值得。」等等但是，你們大概也可以想到這也很容易被反制因為你想想游擊隊會說什麼？「對啦對啦，如果他不這樣做的話，可能就會被殺。」這太簡單了，所以這招一下子就沒效因為游擊隊內部也會消毒說他們做這麼多宣傳是因為他們不這樣做，生命就會有危險 然後有人，我們團隊裡有個天才回頭說：「我發現一件事我發現在聖誕節的時候都有一波退役潮打從這場戰爭開始就有了。」這下子不得了因為這讓我們想到我們應該和「人」對話而不是和軍人對話我們要跳出對話這個框框不是政府對敵營，不是軍方對叛軍我們應該討論的是普世價值我們要和人性對話而這就是「聖誕樹」想法的誕生這張照片可以看到我們正在討論聖誕樹計畫而那位肩附三星的的男人是璜·馬鈕艾爾·瓦德茲上尉璜·馬鈕艾爾·瓦德茲上尉是第一位高階長官提供我們直昇機、與相關的支援協助立起這些聖誕樹在那次會議中他說的話我永遠不會忘記他說：「我想這麼做是因為，寬宏大量讓我更強大讓我們的人感到更強大。」我想到他就非常激動因為後來他在戰場上犧牲了我們非常感念他但我想讓你們都看看他因為他實在非常非常重要他全力支持我們完成第一批聖誕樹 後來的故事就是游擊隊員們出來看到了我們的「聖誕樹行動」說：「這很棒，放聖誕樹很酷。」不過我跟你們說後來我們不再走陸路了我們利用河運 河流就是叢林裡的高速公路這是我們學到的其中一點而多數的游擊隊員募集都是來自河邊的村子或周圍的聚落所以我們就跑去那些河邊的村落我們問村裡的人我想他們有些人可能有認識的人在當游擊隊員我們問他們：「可以請你們和游擊隊的人說些什麼嗎？」我們收集了超過六千則留言有些人寫紙條說：「逃吧！」有些送出玩具有些送的是糖果甚至有人拿出自己的珠寶十字架墜飾和宗教信物把這些東西全部放在浮球裡面放到河面上晚上的時候人們就可以把這些撿起來我們送出了上千個浮球，順流而下然後剩下沒有被撿到的我們再收回來但有很多都被撿走了這個活動產生的結果是平均每六小時有一名隊員退出這結果很驚人，一切是在說：「聖誕節了，回家過節吧。」 然後就來到了和平進程當和平會談開始時游擊隊的觀念整個改變了他們會轉變是因為這令人想到：「嗯，如果都能和平會談了這場戰爭大概快要結束了到時候我總會退役的他們的恐懼完全地改變了他們不是怕說：「我會不會被殺？」而是怕：「我會不會被排拒在外呢？」「當我出來的時候，我會不會被社會排擠呢？」因此在去年聖誕節我們邀請...我們找了 27 位游擊隊員的母親請她們提供子女的照片只有本人會認得自己兒時的長相所以他們不會有生命危險然後我們請每位母親留下最慈愛的話語說道：「在你身為游擊隊員之前，你是我的孩子所以回來吧，我等著你。」看看這張照片我給大家看看這些（掌聲）謝謝大家 這些照片張貼在很多地方而有很多孩子回來了這真的、真的很美 然後我們就和社會合作我們做過母親的活動和聖誕節的現在我們來談談其餘的人們你們也許知道，或是不清楚不過今年舉行了世足賽哥倫比亞取得了非常好的成績這也是哥倫比亞民心團結的重要時刻而我們就告訴游擊隊員們：「來吧，離開叢林，我們還留了位置給你。」這是電視畫面是各種不同的型態的媒體訊息：「我們有留下你的位置。」廣告裡的這位軍人說道：「我在直昇機上留了一個位置給你你可以離開叢林，和大家一起看世界盃。」前足球選手、播報員、每個人都留了一個位置給游擊隊員 所以我們八年多前開始這個工作共 17000 名游擊隊員脫離苦海我並不是...（掌聲） 謝謝你們 我並不是說一切都是因為我們這並非全是我們的功勞但我知道我們的努力我們做的事情可能幫助到很多人讓他們開始考慮選擇離開游擊隊也可能讓他們很多人下定決心行動如果真是如此，廣告依然可說是改變人心的最強力量之一是我們能力所及的方式我說這話不只是代表我自己也代表在座所有的廣告業同業以及所有和我合作過參與這件事的團隊若你們想要改變世界或你們想要取得和平請打電話過來我們非常樂意協助 謝謝 （觀眾鼓掌）
