Talk	en	zh-tw
joshua_foer_feats_of_memory_anyone_can_do	"I'd like to invite you to close your eyes. Imagine yourself standing outside the front door of your home. I'd like you to notice the color of the door, the material that it's made out of. Now visualize a pack of overweight nudists on bicycles. (Laughter) They are competing in a naked bicycle race, and they are headed straight for your front door. I need you to actually see this. They are pedaling really hard, they're sweaty, they're bouncing around a lot. And they crash straight into the front door of your home. Bicycles fly everywhere, wheels roll past you, spokes end up in awkward places. Step over the threshold of your door into your foyer, your hallway, whatever's on the other side, and appreciate the quality of the light. The light is shining down on Cookie Monster. Cookie Monster is waving at you from his perch on top of a tan horse. It's a talking horse. You can practically feel his blue fur tickling your nose. You can smell the oatmeal raisin cookie that he's about to shovel into his mouth. Walk past him. Walk past him into your living room. In your living room, in full imaginative broadband, picture Britney Spears. She is scantily clad, she's dancing on your coffee table, and she's singing ""Hit Me Baby One More Time."" And then, follow me into your kitchen. In your kitchen, the floor has been paved over with a yellow brick road, and out of your oven are coming towards you Dorothy, the Tin Man, the Scarecrow and the Lion from ""The Wizard of Oz,"" hand-in-hand, skipping straight towards you. Okay. Open your eyes. I want to tell you about a very bizarre contest that is held every spring in New York City. It's called the United States Memory Championship. And I had gone to cover this contest a few years back as a science journalist, expecting, I guess, that this was going to be like the Superbowl of savants. This was a bunch of guys and a few ladies, widely varying in both age and hygienic upkeep. (Laughter) They were memorizing hundreds of random numbers, looking at them just once. They were memorizing the names of dozens and dozens and dozens of strangers. They were memorizing entire poems in just a few minutes. They were competing to see who could memorize the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards the fastest. I was like, this is unbelievable. These people must be freaks of nature. And I started talking to a few of the competitors. This is a guy called Ed Cook, who had come over from England, where he had one of the best-trained memories. And I said to him, ""Ed, when did you realize that you were a savant?"" And Ed was like, ""I'm not a savant. In fact, I have just an average memory. Everybody who competes in this contest will tell you that they have just an average memory. We've all trained ourselves to perform these utterly miraculous feats of memory using a set of ancient techniques, techniques invented 2,500 years ago in Greece, the same techniques that Cicero had used to memorize his speeches, that medieval scholars had used to memorize entire books."" And I said, ""Whoa. How come I never heard of this before?"" And we were standing outside the competition hall, and Ed, who is a wonderful, brilliant, but somewhat eccentric English guy, says to me, ""Josh, you're an American journalist. Do you know Britney Spears?"" I'm like, ""What? No. Why?"" ""Because I really want to teach Britney Spears how to memorize the order of a shuffled pack of playing cards on U.S. national television. It will prove to the world that anybody can do this."" (Laughter) I was like, ""Well, I'm not Britney Spears, but maybe you could teach me. I mean, you've got to start somewhere, right?"" And that was the beginning of a very strange journey for me. I ended up spending the better part of the next year not only training my memory, but also investigating it, trying to understand how it works, why it sometimes doesn't work, and what its potential might be. And I met a host of really interesting people. This is a guy called E.P. He's an amnesic who had, very possibly, the worst memory in the world. His memory was so bad, that he didn't even remember he had a memory problem, which is amazing. And he was this incredibly tragic figure, but he was a window into the extent to which our memories make us who we are. At the other end of the spectrum, I met this guy. This is Kim Peek, he was the basis for Dustin Hoffman's character in the movie ""Rain Man."" We spent an afternoon together in the Salt Lake City Public Library memorizing phone books, which was scintillating. (Laughter) And I went back and I read a whole host of memory treatises, treatises written 2,000-plus years ago in Latin, in antiquity, and then later, in the Middle Ages. And I learned a whole bunch of really interesting stuff. One of the really interesting things that I learned is that once upon a time, this idea of having a trained, disciplined, cultivated memory was not nearly so alien as it would seem to us to be today. Once upon a time, people invested in their memories, in laboriously furnishing their minds. Over the last few millenia, we've invented a series of technologies — from the alphabet, to the scroll, to the codex, the printing press, photography, the computer, the smartphone — that have made it progressively easier and easier for us to externalize our memories, for us to essentially outsource this fundamental human capacity. These technologies have made our modern world possible, but they've also changed us. They've changed us culturally, and I would argue that they've changed us cognitively. Having little need to remember anymore, it sometimes seems like we've forgotten how. One of the last places on Earth where you still find people passionate about this idea of a trained, disciplined, cultivated memory, is at this totally singular memory contest. It's actually not that singular, there are contests held all over the world. And I was fascinated, I wanted to know how do these guys do it. A few years back a group of researchers at University College London brought a bunch of memory champions into the lab. They wanted to know: Do these guys have brains that are somehow structurally, anatomically different from the rest of ours? The answer was no. Are they smarter than the rest of us? They gave them a bunch of cognitive tests, and the answer was: not really. There was, however, one really interesting and telling difference between the brains of the memory champions and the control subjects that they were comparing them to. When they put these guys in an fMRI machine, scanned their brains while they were memorizing numbers and people's faces and pictures of snowflakes, they found that the memory champions were lighting up different parts of the brain than everyone else. Of note, they were using, or they seemed to be using, a part of the brain that's involved in spatial memory and navigation. Why? And is there something that the rest of us can learn from this? The sport of competitive memorizing is driven by a kind of arms race where, every year, somebody comes up with a new way to remember more stuff more quickly, and then the rest of the field has to play catch-up. This is my friend Ben Pridmore, three-time world memory champion. On his desk in front of him are 36 shuffled packs of playing cards that he is about to try to memorize in one hour, using a technique that he invented and he alone has mastered. He used a similar technique to memorize the precise order of 4,140 random binary digits in half an hour. (Laughter) Yeah. And while there are a whole host of ways of remembering stuff in these competitions, everything, all of the techniques that are being used, ultimately come down to a concept that psychologists refer to as ""elaborative encoding."" And it's well-illustrated by a nifty paradox known as the Baker/baker paradox, which goes like this: If I tell two people to remember the same word, if I say to you, ""Remember that there is a guy named Baker."" That's his name. And I say to you, ""Remember that there is a guy who is a baker."" Okay? And I come back to you at some point later on, and I say, ""Do you remember that word that I told you a while back? Do you remember what it was?"" The person who was told his name is Baker is less likely to remember the same word than the person was told his job is a baker. Same word, different amount of remembering; that's weird. What's going on here? Well, the name Baker doesn't actually mean anything to you. It is entirely untethered from all of the other memories floating around in your skull. But the common noun ""baker"" — we know bakers. Bakers wear funny white hats. Bakers have flour on their hands. Bakers smell good when they come home from work. Maybe we even know a baker. And when we first hear that word, we start putting these associational hooks into it, that make it easier to fish it back out at some later date. The entire art of what is going on in these memory contests, and the entire art of remembering stuff better in everyday life, is figuring out ways to transform capital B Bakers into lower-case B bakers — to take information that is lacking in context, in significance, in meaning, and transform it in some way, so that it becomes meaningful in the light of all the other things that you have in your mind. One of the more elaborate techniques for doing this dates back 2,500 years to Ancient Greece. It came to be known as the memory palace. The story behind its creation goes like this: There was a poet called Simonides, who was attending a banquet. He was actually the hired entertainment, because back then, if you wanted to throw a really slamming party, you didn't hire a D.J., you hired a poet. And he stands up, delivers his poem from memory, walks out the door, and at the moment he does, the banquet hall collapses. Kills everybody inside. It doesn't just kill everybody, it mangles the bodies beyond all recognition. Nobody can say who was inside, nobody can say where they were sitting. The bodies can't be properly buried. It's one tragedy compounding another. Simonides, standing outside, the sole survivor amid the wreckage, closes his eyes and has this realization, which is that in his mind's eye, he can see where each of the guests at the banquet had been sitting. And he takes the relatives by the hand, and guides them each to their loved ones amid the wreckage. What Simonides figured out at that moment, is something that I think we all kind of intuitively know, which is that, as bad as we are at remembering names and phone numbers, and word-for-word instructions from our colleagues, we have really exceptional visual and spatial memories. If I asked you to recount the first 10 words of the story that I just told you about Simonides, chances are you would have a tough time with it. But, I would wager that if I asked you to recall who is sitting on top of a talking tan horse in your foyer right now, you would be able to see that. The idea behind the memory palace is to create this imagined edifice in your mind's eye, and populate it with images of the things that you want to remember — the crazier, weirder, more bizarre, funnier, raunchier, stinkier the image is, the more unforgettable it's likely to be. This is advice that goes back 2,000-plus years to the earliest Latin memory treatises. So how does this work? Let's say that you've been invited to TED center stage to give a speech, and you want to do it from memory, and you want to do it the way that Cicero would have done it, if he had been invited to TEDxRome 2,000 years ago. (Laughter) What you might do is picture yourself at the front door of your house. And you'd come up with some sort of crazy, ridiculous, unforgettable image, to remind you that the first thing you want to talk about is this totally bizarre contest. (Laughter) And then you'd go inside your house, and you would see an image of Cookie Monster on top of Mister Ed. And that would remind you that you would want to then introduce your friend Ed Cook. And then you'd see an image of Britney Spears to remind you of this funny anecdote you want to tell. And you'd go into your kitchen, and the fourth topic you were going to talk about was this strange journey that you went on for a year, and you'd have some friends to help you remember that. This is how Roman orators memorized their speeches — not word-for-word, which is just going to screw you up, but topic-for-topic. In fact, the phrase ""topic sentence"" — that comes from the Greek word ""topos,"" which means ""place."" That's a vestige of when people used to think about oratory and rhetoric in these sorts of spatial terms. The phrase ""in the first place,"" that's like ""in the first place of your memory palace."" I thought this was just fascinating, and I got really into it. And I went to a few more of these memory contests, and I had this notion that I might write something longer about this subculture of competitive memorizers. But there was a problem. The problem was that a memory contest is a pathologically boring event. (Laughter) Truly, it is like a bunch of people sitting around taking the SATs — I mean, the most dramatic it gets is when somebody starts massaging their temples. And I'm a journalist, I need something to write about. I know that there's incredible stuff happening in these people's minds, but I don't have access to it. And I realized, if I was going to tell this story, I needed to walk in their shoes a little bit. And so I started trying to spend 15 or 20 minutes every morning, before I sat down with my New York Times, just trying to remember something. Maybe it was a poem, maybe it was names from an old yearbook that I bought at a flea market. And I found that this was shockingly fun. I never would have expected that. It was fun because this is actually not about training your memory. What you're doing, is you're trying to get better and better at creating, at dreaming up, these utterly ludicrous, raunchy, hilarious, and hopefully unforgettable images in your mind's eye. And I got pretty into it. This is me wearing my standard competitive memorizer's training kit. (Laughter) It's a pair of earmuffs and a set of safety goggles that have been masked over except for two small pinholes, because distraction is the competitive memorizer's greatest enemy. I ended up coming back to that same contest that I had covered a year earlier, and I had this notion that I might enter it, sort of as an experiment in participatory journalism. It'd make, I thought, maybe a nice epilogue to all my research. Problem was, the experiment went haywire. I won the contest — (Laughter) which really wasn't supposed to happen. (Applause) Now, it is nice to be able to memorize speeches and phone numbers and shopping lists, but it's actually kind of beside the point. These are just tricks. They work because they're based on some pretty basic principles about how our brains work. And you don't have to be building memory palaces or memorizing packs of playing cards to benefit from a little bit of insight about how your mind works. We often talk about people with great memories as though it were some sort of an innate gift, but that is not the case. Great memories are learned. At the most basic level, we remember when we pay attention. We remember when we are deeply engaged. We remember when we are able to take a piece of information and experience, and figure out why it is meaningful to us, why it is significant, why it's colorful, when we're able to transform it in some way that makes sense in the light of all of the other things floating around in our minds, when we're able to transform Bakers into bakers. The memory palace, these memory techniques — they're just shortcuts. In fact, they're not even really shortcuts. They work because they make you work. They force a kind of depth of processing, a kind of mindfulness, that most of us don't normally walk around exercising. But there actually are no shortcuts. This is how stuff is made memorable. And I think if there's one thing that I want to leave you with, it's what E.P., the amnesic who couldn't even remember he had a memory problem, left me with, which is the notion that our lives are the sum of our memories. How much are we willing to lose from our already short lives, by losing ourselves in our Blackberries, our iPhones, by not paying attention to the human being across from us who is talking with us, by being so lazy that we're not willing to process deeply? I learned firsthand that there are incredible memory capacities latent in all of us. But if you want to live a memorable life, you have to be the kind of person who remembers to remember. Thank you. (Applause)"	"﻿請大家跟我一起閉上眼睛 想象一下 你站在自己家門外請留心一下門的顏色以及門的材質現在請想象一群超重的裸騎者正在進行一場裸體自行車賽向你的前門直沖而來盡量讓畫面栩栩如生近在眼前他們都在奮力地踩腳踏板 汗流浹背路面非常顛簸然後徑直撞進了你家前門自行車四下飛散 車輪從你身旁滾過輻條紮進了各種尷尬角落跨過門檻進到門廳 走廊 和門裏的其他地方室內光線柔和舒適光線灑在甜餅怪物身上他坐在一匹棕色駿馬的馬背上向你招手這匹馬會說話你可以感覺到怪物的藍色鬃毛讓你鼻子發癢你可以聞到他正要扔進嘴裏的葡萄燕麥曲奇的香氣繞過他. 繞過他走進客廳站在客廳裏 把你的想象力調到最大檔想象小甜甜布蘭妮她衣著性感 在你咖啡桌上跳舞並唱著""Hit Me Baby One More Time""接下來 跟著我走進你的廚房廚房的地面被一道黃磚路覆蓋依次鉆出你的烤箱向你走來的是《綠野仙蹤》裏的多蘿西 鐵皮人稻草人 和獅子他們手挽著手 蹦蹦跳跳地向你走來 好了 睜開眼睛吧 我要給你們講一個每年春天在紐約都會舉辦的奇異競賽叫做全美記憶冠軍賽幾年前我作為一名科技類記者去報道這項競賽我期待這是一個學者的超級碗參加比賽的是一群男人 以及少數女人在年齡和衛生習慣上有很大不同 （笑聲） 他們在記憶幾百個隨機數卻僅僅看那些數字一眼他們記很多陌生人名他們在幾分鍾內記憶征收詩歌他們競爭來看誰能最快的記憶一副牌的順序我覺得這難以想象這些人一定是異類 所以我開始和他們交流有一個叫艾德·庫克的人是英格蘭人在那裏他是記憶力最好的人之一我說 艾德你什麽時候意識到你是這種專家？他說 我不是專家我的記憶力很普通這個比賽中的所有人都會告訴你他們的記憶力很普通我們訓練我們自己來完成這種奇迹般的任務用的只是一些很古老的技巧在2500年前的希臘就有了這個西斯羅用來記憶演講是同一個技術也是醫學學者來背醫書的技巧我問 喔 我怎麽從來沒聽說過？ 然後我們站在競賽大堂外面艾德 一個奇妙的 聰明的但有些奇怪的英國人告訴我 約什 你是一個美國記者你知道布蘭妮·斯皮爾斯（歌手）嗎？我說 什麽 不 圍著幹嘛因爲我想叫布蘭妮·斯皮爾斯如何記憶撲克牌順序在美國國家電視台上這樣就能證明每個人都行 （笑聲） 我說 我不是布蘭妮·斯皮爾斯但也許你能教我我說 咱們開始吧這對于我來說是一段奇異的旅行 在最後 我花了第二年的很長時間不僅用來訓練記憶力更研究它嘗試弄懂它如何工作爲什麽有時不工作它的潛能何在 我遇到了很多很有趣的人有一個叫E.P.他是一個健忘症患者 也許有著世界上最糟糕的記憶力他的記憶力太不好以至于他不記得他又記憶問題這多麽驚訝他就是這樣一個悲劇的人但它反映了記憶能把我們變成什麽 在另一個極端 我遇見了這個人他叫金·匹克他就是達斯汀·霍夫曼電影“雨人”的原型他花一個下午在鹽湖城公共圖書館記電話號這閃爍著光芒 （笑聲） 然後我回去讀了很多關于記憶的文章在兩千多年前寫的用拉丁文寫的然後就是在中世紀寫的我學到了很多有趣的是其中一個就是從前訓練記憶力這個觀念沒有現在這麽陌生從前人們努力訓練記憶力通過極爲刻苦的工作 在過去的幾千年裏我們發明了一系列的技術——從字母表到滾軸到代碼 出版社 攝影計算機 智能手機——這些都把記憶變得越來越簡單讓我們超越人類的極限這些技術讓我們的現代社會成爲可能但他們也改變了我們他們在文化上改變了我們而且我想說他們從認知上改變了我們幾乎不需要記什麽東西我們似乎忘記了如何記 地球上最後一塊地方你依然能夠找到關于訓練記憶力有激情的人就是在唯一的記憶競賽其實不唯一在全世界都有競賽並且我很好奇 我想知道那些人如何完成的 幾年前一夥研究人員在倫敦大學把一些記憶冠軍帶到了實驗室他們想知道這些人有結構上不同的大腦嗎？答案是否定的他們是比我們更聰明嗎？他們進行了一系列認知測試並且得到否定的答案 然而的確有一個有趣的不同在這些記憶冠軍的大腦和控制組的大腦裏當他們用核磁共振掃描正在記憶數字 面部 圖像的大腦時他們發現記憶冠軍在用和其他人不同的部分來記憶他們在用一個管理空間記憶和導航的部分爲什麽？我們能學到什麽？ 記憶競賽被一種軍備競賽驅動在這裏每年一些人來到同時帶來一些新的記憶方法然後其他人要趕緊追上來 這是我的朋友本·普裏蒂莫三次世界記憶冠軍在他的台前有三十六副打亂順序的牌他要在一個小時內記下全部用的是一種他自己發明的 也只有他會的技巧用與此類似的方法他曾一字不差地背下了4140個任意排列的二進制數只用了半個小時很牛吧 參賽者在這些競賽中運用過很多不同的記憶方法各式各樣 被運用到的所有技巧最終都能歸化爲一個概念心理學家稱之爲""精細編碼"" 這個概念能用一則幽默的悖論完美诠釋叫做貝克悖論簡單說來就是假設我讓兩個人去記同一個詞我跟你說""記住有個人叫貝克""貝克是人名我又來告訴你 ""記住有個人是面包師(英文和貝克一樣)""過了一段時間我又回來找到你們問 ""還記得我之前叫你們記住的那個詞嗎?""”還記得是什麽詞嗎?“被告知人名是貝克的人記住這個詞的可能性遠不如被告知職業是面包師的那個人同樣的詞 導致不同的記憶程度到底是爲什麽呢 是因爲 人名Baker沒有任何特殊含義沒法跟你腦海裏零碎繁雜的記憶産生任何聯系但是面包師作爲一個常用名詞我們都知道面包師是什麽面包師帶著搞笑的白帽子他們手上沾滿了面粉他們下班回到家帶著撲鼻的烤面包香甚至可能有些人有朋友就是面包師我們初次聽到這個詞時馬上就會産生各種各樣的聯想這使我們能在一段時間後還能回憶起來其實 要理解記憶競賽中的一切奧妙或在日常生活中改善記憶力的秘訣僅僅在于想辦法把Baker中的大寫B變爲面包師(baker)中的小寫b把沒有前因後果沒有重要性 沒有涵義的信息用某種方法轉化爲有意義的內容跟腦海裏的其他記憶串聯起來 這種精確記憶的技巧在兩千五百年前的古希臘就已出現後來將其稱爲記憶宮殿發明這種技巧的過程如下有個叫做西蒙奈德的詩人他要去參加一個晚宴其實他算是被請去做表演嘉賓的因爲在那個年代 炫酷派對的標准不是請D.J.來打碟 而是要請詩人來頌詩他站起來 背出了他的全篇詩作 然後潇灑離去他剛走出門口 晚宴大廳就塌了砸死了裏面所有的人不僅全體死亡所有的死者都被砸得面目全非沒人說得清死者都有些誰沒人說得清誰坐在哪兒導致死者的屍體沒法得到合適的殉葬安置這又加重了整件事的悲劇色彩西蒙奈德站在外面作爲廢墟中的唯一幸存者閉上眼睛 猛然意識到在他的腦海中他眼前出現了所有賓客所坐的位置他就牽著親屬們的手穿過廢墟 把他們帶到了親人身邊 西蒙奈德當時猛然醒悟的事大概我們大家也都猜到了其實是 不管我們有多不善于記住姓名 電話號碼或是同事的每句指令我們都擁有異常敏銳的視覺或空間記憶能力要是我讓你們逐字逐句地重述我剛才講的西蒙奈德故事的前十個字應該沒幾個人會記得但我敢打賭如果我讓你們現在回想下在你的門廳裏 坐在會講話的棕色駿馬上的是誰你們就明白我剛才說的意思了 記憶宮殿的原理就是在你的腦海裏建立一棟想象大廈並讓你想記住的東西的影像充滿其中越是瘋狂 古怪 奇詭荒誕搞笑 亂七八糟 招人厭惡的影像就越容易記住這個建議來自于兩千多年前拉丁最早的記憶學者 那麽 這種說法的原理到底是什麽呢假設你被邀請站上TED的中心講台演講而你想脫稿完成如西塞羅在兩千年前在TEDx羅馬上的演講一般他就會這麽霸氣走一回 而你也想這樣你要做的就是想象自己站在自家門前然後憑空想象出一段完全荒誕瘋狂難忘的景象用來提示你上台要提的第一件事就是這場詭異的裸騎大賽然後你走進房子裏想到甜餅怪物坐在Ed先生背上的樣子這個景象會提醒你要介紹你的朋友Ed Cook然後你腦海裏出現了小甜甜布蘭妮的樣子你就會想起要講那個關于布蘭妮的小故事然後你走進廚房你要說到的第四個話題是你花了一整年走過的奇妙曆程通過綠野仙蹤就可以聯想得到 這就是羅馬演說家背誦演講稿的秘訣並非一字不差 逐字背誦只會平添麻煩而是記住一個個主題其實 短語""主題句""就來源于希臘詞""topos""意思是""地點""這是古時候人們談到演講或是修辭時會用到的空間術語短語 ""第一""就意味著你的記憶宮殿的第一層 這簡直太有意思了我對這起了很大的興趣後來我又去了更多記憶大賽我開始萌發了要更詳細描寫這種競技記憶文化的念頭但有一個問題問題是記憶大賽其實過程很無聊的(大笑)真的 就像一群人坐那兒高考一樣最最激動人心的時刻也不過就是有人揉了揉太陽穴我是個記者 總得有東西可寫呀我知道這些人腦子裏肯定是驚濤駭浪但我作爲外人無法得見 我意識到 若我真的想報道這事兒一定得親身體驗才行所以我開始嘗試著每天早上坐下來看紐約時報前花上十五到二十分鍾嘗試記憶一些事背背小詩背背我在跳蚤市場買來的舊年鑒裏的人名我驚奇地發現這其實非常帶勁要不去嘗試根本想不到有趣在于 其實目標並不是要通過訓練提高記憶力而是你在努力培養改善創造力 想象力在你的腦海裏憑空造出那些完全滑稽荒誕胡亂 最好是難忘的影像而它成爲了我的樂趣 這是我戴著標准競賽記憶者訓練套裝的樣子它有一對耳塞一副護目鏡 鏡面全部遮黑就留了兩個小孔因爲競技記憶者最大的敵人就是注意力分散 最後 我再次回到了一年前報道的那場競賽場上我一時衝動 也想報名參加就當做參與性新聞報道的實驗了我當時想 到時能在前言裏調侃一下自己也好問題是 實驗最後得到了意想不到的結果那場競賽我贏了真是完全出乎我預料之外 (鼓掌) 對我來說現在背演講稿 電話號碼 或是購物單都是小菜一碟 倒是很不錯但其實這些都不重要了這些都是小伎倆這些記憶伎倆之所以有效是因爲它們依仗人類大腦運轉的一些基本原理並不用真的去建立記憶宮殿或記下幾副牌的順序你也完全可以從了解大腦運轉原理中獲得一些益處 我們總會議論記憶力很好的人總覺得那些人是天賦異禀事實並不是這樣強大的記憶力是可以習得的從最根本的說起 專心致志就能記住全心投入時就能記住只要能想辦法把信息和經曆轉化爲有意義的事就能記住想它爲何重要 爲何多彩當我們能把它轉化成爲有前因後果的事並跟我們腦海中繁雜瑣碎的其他事産生聯想時當我們能把人名Baker轉化爲面包師baker時 記憶宮殿 或是那些記憶技巧都只是捷徑而已其實 說到底它們都不能算捷徑這方法有效是因爲它迫使你思考它迫使你往更深層次去想讓你更加專注大部分人平時並不會費力去訓練這個其實捷徑並不存在這一直就是我們能記住事物的原因 有一件事我希望你們能記住就是E.P.那個連自己患了健忘症都想不起來的人讓我深思得出了一個感想人生就是我們個人記憶的合集在短暫的人生裏你還願意因爲黑莓 iPhone喪失多少瞬間忽略對面坐著的人在跟我們交談的人變得越發懶惰 不願意深究任何事？ 通過親身經曆 我發現我們的身體裏潛藏著不可思議的記憶能力但若你想活得難忘就得做那種記得時常記憶的人 謝謝 (鼓掌)"
