Talk	en	zh-tw
juan_enriquez_how_to_think_about_digital_tattoos	"All right, so let's take four subjects that obviously go together: big data, tattoos, immortality and the Greeks. Right? Now, the issue about tattoos is that, without a word, tattoos really do shout. [Beautiful] [Intriguing] So you don't have to say a lot. [Allegiance] [Very intimate] [Serious mistakes] (Laughter) And tattoos tell you a lot of stories. If I can ask an indiscreet question, how many of you have tattoos? A few, but not most. What happens if Facebook, Google, Twitter, LinkedIn, cell phones, GPS, Foursquare, Yelp, Travel Advisor, all these things you deal with every day turn out to be electronic tattoos? And what if they provide as much information about who and what you are as any tattoo ever would? What's ended up happening over the past few decades is the kind of coverage that you had as a head of state or as a great celebrity is now being applied to you every day by all these people who are Tweeting, blogging, following you, watching your credit scores and what you do to yourself. And electronic tattoos also shout. And as you're thinking of the consequences of that, it's getting really hard to hide from this stuff, among other things, because it's not just the electronic tattoos, it's facial recognition that's getting really good. So you can take a picture with an iPhone and get all the names, although, again, sometimes it does make mistakes. (Laughter) But that means you can take a typical bar scene like this, take a picture, say, of this guy right here, get the name, and download all the records before you utter a word or speak to somebody, because everybody turns out to be absolutely plastered by electronic tattoos. And so there's companies like face.com that now have about 18 billion faces online. Here's what happened to this company. [Company sold to Facebook, June 18, 2012...] There are other companies that will place a camera like this — this has nothing to do with Facebook — they take your picture, they tie it to the social media, they figure out you really like to wear black dresses, so maybe the person in the store comes up and says, ""Hey, we've got five black dresses that would just look great on you."" So what if Andy was wrong? Here's Andy's theory. [In the future, everybody will be world famous for 15 minutes.] What if we flip this? What if you're only going to be anonymous for 15 minutes? (Laughter) Well, then, because of electronic tattoos, maybe all of you and all of us are very close to immortality, because these tattoos will live far longer than our bodies will. And if that's true, then what we want to do is we want to go through four lessons from the Greeks and one lesson from a Latin American. Why the Greeks? Well, the Greeks thought about what happens when gods and humans and immortality mix for a long time. So lesson number one: Sisyphus. Remember? He did a horrible thing, condemned for all time to roll this rock up, it would roll back down, roll back up, roll back down. It's a little like your reputation. Once you get that electronic tattoo, you're going to be rolling up and down for a long time, so as you go through this stuff, just be careful what you post. Myth number two: Orpheus, wonderful guy, charming to be around, great partier, great singer, loses his beloved, charms his way into the underworld, only person to charm his way into the underworld, charms the gods of the underworld, they release his beauty on the condition he never look at her until they're out. So he's walking out and walking out and walking out and he just can't resist. He looks at her, loses her forever. With all this data out here, it might be a good idea not to look too far into the past of those you love. Lesson number three: Atalanta. Greatest runner. She would challenge anybody. If you won, she would marry you. If you lost, you died. How did Hippomenes beat her? Well, he had all these wonderful little golden apples, and she'd run ahead, and he'd roll a little golden apple. She'd run ahead, and he'd roll a little golden apple. She kept getting distracted. He eventually won the race. Just remember the purpose as all these little golden apples come and reach you and you want to post about them or tweet about them or send a late-night message. And then, of course, there's Narcissus. Nobody here would ever be accused or be familiar with Narcissus. (Laughter) But as you're thinking about Narcissus, just don't fall in love with your own reflection. Last lesson, from a Latin American: This is the great poet Jorge Luis Borges. When he was threatened by the thugs of the Argentine military junta, he came back and said, ""Oh, come on, how else can you threaten, other than with death?"" The interesting thing, the original thing, would be to threaten somebody with immortality. And that, of course, is what we are all now threatened with today because of electronic tattoos. Thank you. (Applause)"	好，讓我們談談四件顯然相關的事物:巨量資料、紋身、永生和希臘。沒錯吧? 說到紋身，它有個特點就是不需用到一個字就能有力的傳達。[美麗][迷人]所以你根本不需要長篇大論。[聯盟][極度親密][嚴重錯誤](笑聲)紋身又可以敘述很多不同的故事。我可以問個輕率的問題嗎:在座各位有誰紋身?有幾位，還不算多數。如果你每天會使用的像是 Facebook、Google、Twitter、LinkedIn、手機、全球定位系統、Foursquare、Yelp、Travel Advisor這類科技全都成了電子紋身會怎樣?又假設它們跟傳統的紋身般能夠傳達自我，又會怎麼樣? 事實上，經過了數十年元首級或巨星級的人才有的曝光度現在每天都發生在我們身上，這些關注、訂閱、追蹤你的社群網站用戶，正檢視著你的信用評分以及觀察所有你的一舉一動。而電子紋身一樣很能溝道一切。在你想着電子紋身所帶來的後果，一分一秒過去，你愈來愈難避過它們，因為現今不只是電子紋身，人面識別科技也愈來愈精準了。光用 iPhone 拍張照就可以看到每個人的名字，雖然，好吧，有時候並不是百分百準確。(笑聲)不過這又表示，例如這酒吧的畫面，你拍張照，就拿這人的臉孔來說，你可以找出他的名字，然後下載他所有的電子紀錄。你連一句話都不用說，因為我們每個人身上，全身都遍布著電子紋身。 甚至 face.com 這類公司，在網路上紀錄了大約 180 億個臉孔。而這是這家公司的結果[ 2012 年 6 月 18 日，Facebook 收購了這家公司]有的公司也會放個這樣的相機 – 完全與 Facebook 無關 –拍下你的照片後，再置入社會媒體，他們便發現你很喜歡穿黑裙子，這時候店員可能會走過來跟你說:「嘿! 我們進了五件肯定很適合你的黑裙子。」 那麼 Andy 是不是錯了?這是Andy的想法，[在未來，人人都會是十五分鐘的名人。]假設我們把這句翻過來，變成 [你只能默默無聞十五分鐘]? (笑聲)嗯，有了電子紋身，我們可能已經很接近永生了，因為這些電子紋身遠比我們肉體的壽命長。而如果這是真的，那麼我們要從古希臘學四堂課，還有從拉丁美洲學一課。 為什麼是希臘？嗯，長久以來希臘人思考著神、人和永生牽扯在一起的後果。 第一課：西西弗斯。記得他嗎？他犯了罪，受譴責要將一塊巨石推上山，然後巨石又會滾下山腳。永無止境地推上，滾下，就像你的聲譽：一當你有了電子紋身，你就會一直推上又滾下，所以你下次上網，千萬要留意你po了什麼。 第二個神話：俄爾甫斯。他人不錯，有魅力，是個社交好手，又很會歌唱。失去他的愛人後，他便闖入地獄他是唯一能夠用魅力闖入地獄的人打動了地府眾神。結果祂們答應釋放俄爾甫斯的嬌妻，但走出地獄之前絕對不能回頭看自己的妻子。他走了又走，但終究忍不住回頭看了她，就此永遠失去了她。網路有這麼多人的個人資訊，我們應該小心不要太深入地查看親朋好友的過去。 第三課：阿塔蘭塔。她跑得很快，很愛挑戰他人。誰跑贏了她就能娶她。但輸的人都要受死。希波墨尼斯是怎樣贏的？他有這些美麗的金蘋果，每當阿塔蘭塔跑過他，他就滾出一顆金蘋果，再跑過他，他就再丟出一顆金蘋果。阿塔蘭塔不停被分心，最後希波墨尼斯就贏了賽跑。在這些金蘋果引誘你去po文、推特、或是在深夜傳訊息時，要想想你本來目的是什麼。 對了，當然，有納西瑟斯。我想這兒沒人會熟悉納西瑟斯(英：Narcissus；是自戀，Narcissism 的來源字)(笑聲)但當你在笑納西瑟斯的同時，不要戀上自己的倒影。 最後，從一名拉美人身上所學的一堂課：他是博爾赫斯，偉大的詩人。當他被阿根廷軍政府的惡棍脅迫的時候，他說：「噢，來吧！除死亡以外，你還能怎威脅我?」有趣又獨創的方法就是用不死來威脅人。當然，這正是我們目前應付電子紋身威脅的方法。 謝謝。 (鼓掌聲)
