Talk	en	zh-tw
juan_enriquez_will_our_kids_be_a_different_species	All right. So, like all good stories, this starts a long, long time ago when there was basically nothing. So here is a complete picture of the universe about 14-odd billion years ago. All energy is concentrated into a single point of energy. For some reason it explodes, and you begin to get these things. So you're now about 14 billion years into this. And these things expand and expand and expand into these giant galaxies, and you get trillions of them. And within these galaxies you get these enormous dust clouds. And I want you to pay particular attention to the three little prongs in the center of this picture. If you take a close-up of those, they look like this. And what you're looking at is columns of dust where there's so much dust — by the way, the scale of this is a trillion vertical miles — and what's happening is there's so much dust, it comes together and it fuses and ignites a thermonuclear reaction. And so what you're watching is the birth of stars. These are stars being born out of here. When enough stars come out, they create a galaxy. This one happens to be a particularly important galaxy, because you are here. (Laughter) And as you take a close-up of this galaxy, you find a relatively normal, not particularly interesting star. By the way, you're now about two-thirds of the way into this story. So this star doesn't even appear until about two-thirds of the way into this story. And then what happens is there's enough dust left over that it doesn't ignite into a star, it becomes a planet. And this is about a little over four billion years ago. And soon thereafter there's enough material left over that you get a primordial soup, and that creates life. And life starts to expand and expand and expand, until it goes kaput. (Laughter) Now the really strange thing is life goes kaput, not once, not twice, but five times. So almost all life on Earth is wiped out about five times. And as you're thinking about that, what happens is you get more and more complexity, more and more stuff to build new things with. And we don't appear until about 99.96 percent of the time into this story, just to put ourselves and our ancestors in perspective. So within that context, there's two theories of the case as to why we're all here. The first theory of the case is that's all she wrote. Under that theory, we are the be-all and end-all of all creation. And the reason for trillions of galaxies, sextillions of planets, is to create something that looks like that and something that looks like that. And that's the purpose of the universe; and then it flat-lines, it doesn't get any better. (Laughter) The only question you might want to ask yourself is, could that be just mildly arrogant? And if it is — and particularly given the fact that we came very close to extinction. There were only about 2,000 of our species left. A few more weeks without rain, we would have never seen any of these. (Laughter) (Applause) So maybe you have to think about a second theory if the first one isn't good enough. Second theory is: Could we upgrade? (Laughter) Well, why would one ask a question like that? Because there have been at least 29 upgrades so far of humanoids. So it turns out that we have upgraded. We've upgraded time and again and again. And it turns out that we keep discovering upgrades. We found this one last year. We found another one last month. And as you're thinking about this, you might also ask the question: So why a single human species? Wouldn't it be really odd if you went to Africa and Asia and Antarctica and found exactly the same bird — particularly given that we co-existed at the same time with at least eight other versions of humanoid at the same time on this planet? So the normal state of affairs is not to have just a Homo sapiens; the normal state of affairs is to have various versions of humans walking around. And if that is the normal state of affairs, then you might ask yourself, all right, so if we want to create something else, how big does a mutation have to be? Well Svante Paabo has the answer. The difference between humans and Neanderthal is 0.004 percent of gene code. That's how big the difference is one species to another. This explains most contemporary political debates. (Laughter) But as you're thinking about this, one of the interesting things is how small these mutations are and where they take place. Difference human/Neanderthal is sperm and testis, smell and skin. And those are the specific genes that differ from one to the other. So very small changes can have a big impact. And as you're thinking about this, we're continuing to mutate. So about 10,000 years ago by the Black Sea, we had one mutation in one gene which led to blue eyes. And this is continuing and continuing and continuing. And as it continues, one of the things that's going to happen this year is we're going to discover the first 10,000 human genomes, because it's gotten cheap enough to do the gene sequencing. And when we find these, we may find differences. And by the way, this is not a debate that we're ready for, because we have really misused the science in this. In the 1920s, we thought there were major differences between people. That was partly based on Francis Galton's work. He was Darwin's cousin. But the U.S., the Carnegie Institute, Stanford, American Neurological Association took this really far. That got exported and was really misused. In fact, it led to some absolutely horrendous treatment of human beings. So since the 1940s, we've been saying there are no differences, we're all identical. We're going to know at year end if that is true. And as we think about that, we're actually beginning to find things like, do you have an ACE gene? Why would that matter? Because nobody's ever climbed an 8,000-meter peak without oxygen that doesn't have an ACE gene. And if you want to get more specific, how about a 577R genotype? Well it turns out that every male Olympic power athelete ever tested carries at least one of these variants. If that is true, it leads to some very complicated questions for the London Olympics. Three options: Do you want the Olympics to be a showcase for really hardworking mutants? (Laughter) Option number two: Why don't we play it like golf or sailing? Because you have one and you don't have one, I'll give you a tenth of a second head start. Version number three: Because this is a naturally occurring gene and you've got it and you didn't pick the right parents, you get the right to upgrade. Three different options. If these differences are the difference between an Olympic medal and a non-Olympic medal. And it turns out that as we discover these things, we human beings really like to change how we look, how we act, what our bodies do. And we had about 10.2 million plastic surgeries in the United States, except that with the technologies that are coming online today, today's corrections, deletions, augmentations and enhancements are going to seem like child's play. You already saw the work by Tony Atala on TED, but this ability to start filling things like inkjet cartridges with cells are allowing us to print skin, organs and a whole series of other body parts. And as these technologies go forward, you keep seeing this, you keep seeing this, you keep seeing things — 2000, human genome sequence — and it seems like nothing's happening, until it does. And we may just be in some of these weeks. And as you're thinking about these two guys sequencing a human genome in 2000 and the Public Project sequencing the human genome in 2000, then you don't hear a lot, until you hear about an experiment last year in China, where they take skin cells from this mouse, put four chemicals on it, turn those skin cells into stem cells, let the stem cells grow and create a full copy of that mouse. That's a big deal. Because in essence what it means is you can take a cell, which is a pluripotent stem cell, which is like a skier at the top of a mountain, and those two skiers become two pluripotent stem cells, four, eight, 16, and then it gets so crowded after 16 divisions that those cells have to differentiate. So they go down one side of the mountain, they go down another. And as they pick that, these become bone, and then they pick another road and these become platelets, and these become macrophages, and these become T cells. But it's really hard, once you ski down, to get back up. Unless, of course, if you have a ski lift. And what those four chemicals do is they take any cell and take it way back up the mountain so it can become any body part. And as you think of that, what it means is potentially you can rebuild a full copy of any organism out of any one of its cells. That turns out to be a big deal because now you can take, not just mouse cells, but you can human skin cells and turn them into human stem cells. And then what they did in October is they took skin cells, turned them into stem cells and began to turn them into liver cells. So in theory, you could grow any organ from any one of your cells. Here's a second experiment: If you could photocopy your body, maybe you also want to take your mind. And one of the things you saw at TED about a year and a half ago was this guy. And he gave a wonderful technical talk. He's a professor at MIT. But in essence what he said is you can take retroviruses, which get inside brain cells of mice. You can tag them with proteins that light up when you light them. And you can map the exact pathways when a mouse sees, feels, touches, remembers, loves. And then you can take a fiber optic cable and light up some of the same things. And by the way, as you do this, you can image it in two colors, which means you can download this information as binary code directly into a computer. So what's the bottom line on that? Well it's not completely inconceivable that someday you'll be able to download your own memories, maybe into a new body. And maybe you can upload other people's memories as well. And this might have just one or two small ethical, political, moral implications. (Laughter) Just a thought. Here's the kind of questions that are becoming interesting questions for philosophers, for governing people, for economists, for scientists. Because these technologies are moving really quickly. And as you think about it, let me close with an example of the brain. The first place where you would expect to see enormous evolutionary pressure today, both because of the inputs, which are becoming massive, and because of the plasticity of the organ, is the brain. Do we have any evidence that that is happening? Well let's take a look at something like autism incidence per thousand. Here's what it looks like in 2000. Here's what it looks like in 2002, 2006, 2008. Here's the increase in less than a decade. And we still don't know why this is happening. What we do know is, potentially, the brain is reacting in a hyperactive, hyper-plastic way, and creating individuals that are like this. And this is only one of the conditions that's out there. You've also got people with who are extraordinarily smart, people who can remember everything they've seen in their lives, people who've got synesthesia, people who've got schizophrenia. You've got all kinds of stuff going on out there, and we still don't understand how and why this is happening. But one question you might want to ask is, are we seeing a rapid evolution of the brain and of how we process data? Because when you think of how much data's coming into our brains, we're trying to take in as much data in a day as people used to take in in a lifetime. And as you're thinking about this, there's four theories as to why this might be going on, plus a whole series of others. I don't have a good answer. There really needs to be more research on this. One option is the fast food fetish. There's beginning to be some evidence that obesity and diet have something to do with gene modifications, which may or may not have an impact on how the brain of an infant works. A second option is the sexy geek option. These conditions are highly rare. (Laughter) (Applause) But what's beginning to happen is because these geeks are all getting together, because they are highly qualified for computer programming and it is highly remunerated, as well as other very detail-oriented tasks, that they are concentrating geographically and finding like-minded mates. So this is the assortative mating hypothesis of these genes reinforcing one another in these structures. The third, is this too much information? We're trying to process so much stuff that some people get synesthetic and just have huge pipes that remember everything. Other people get hyper-sensitive to the amount of information. Other people react with various psychological conditions or reactions to this information. Or maybe it's chemicals. But when you see an increase of that order of magnitude in a condition, either you're not measuring it right or there's something going on very quickly, and it may be evolution in real time. Here's the bottom line. What I think we are doing is we're transitioning as a species. And I didn't think this when Steve Gullans and I started writing together. I think we're transitioning into Homo evolutis that, for better or worse, is not just a hominid that's conscious of his or her environment, it's a hominid that's beginning to directly and deliberately control the evolution of its own species, of bacteria, of plants, of animals. And I think that's such an order of magnitude change that your grandkids or your great-grandkids may be a species very different from you. Thank you very much. (Applause)	好吧，就像那些童話故事一樣，這個故事要從很久很久以前講起，當時宇宙基本上是一片空白這張圖片展現的就是140多億年前的整個宇宙所有的能量都集中在一個能量點由於某種原因它爆炸了宇宙裏開始出現這些東西它們已經存在了140多億年而且在不斷地擴大、擴大、擴大形成了這些巨大的星系數量達到幾萬億在這些星系裏出現大量的塵埃雲請大家注意看圖片中心的 這三個小突起如果給它們來個特寫的話它們看上去就是這個樣子大家所看到的是塵埃柱其中滿是塵埃順便提一句，它的規模有一萬億英里這些大量的塵埃相互聚集，熔合引發了熱核反應現在大家所看到的便是恒星的誕生恒星就是在這裏產生的當恒星的數量足夠多時它們形成了一個星系而這個星系恰巧是至關重要的因為我們大家就生活在這裏(笑聲)仔細觀察這個星系我們會發現一個比較平凡並不引人注目的恒星 順便提一句，這個故事已經講了三分之二了而這顆恒星卻直到現在才出現現在的情況是由於剩餘的塵埃不足以引發熱核反應形成恒星於是它成為了行星這大約發生在40億年前 不久之後由於擁有足夠的剩餘原料便有了一鍋「原湯」生命便從這裏起源而且不斷地擴大、擴大、再擴大直到它塵歸塵，土歸土 (笑聲) 有件事情非常的奇怪生命滅絕了不止一次、兩次而是五次幾乎地球上的所有生命都被消滅了五次正如大家所想的一樣新生命變得越來越複雜越來越多的材質包含在裏面而我們人類直到這個故事的99.96%才出現以便我們正確看待自己和我們的祖先 在這個背景下有兩種理論來解釋人類為什麼存在第一種理論這都是她寫下來的按照這種理論人類是造物主最重要的創造所以數萬億的星系以及數量眾多的行星存在的原因是為了創造這樣…和那樣的生命體這就是宇宙存在的目的然後它就開始走平穩路線沒有再進一步提高水準 (笑聲) 大家可能想問自己這樣的解釋是不是有些妄自尊大呢？如果是這樣的話特別是鑒於人類曾經接近滅絕的事實當時只剩下大約二千人要是再有幾個星期不下雨我們就再也見不到這些名人了 (笑聲) (掌聲) 因此我們也許不得不考慮另一種理論如果第一種解釋不通的話第二種理論是：我們能不能「升級」?(笑聲)怎麼會有人問出這樣的問題呢？因為目前為止一經發現人類已至少「升級」了29次結果表明我們確實「升級」了人類一次一次地「升級」而且我們還在不斷地發現新的「升級」的證據這是去年發現的我們上個月還發現了一個 現在大家都在思考這個理論可能會產生這個疑問為什麼僅僅是人類呢？如果我們在非洲、亞洲、南極洲發現同一種鳥類會不會是件很稀奇的事情？特別是考慮到我們曾經和至少其他八類人種在這個星球上共同存在過智人是唯一存在的人種這種說法不是自然界的普遍法則自然界的普遍法則是各種不同種類的人 如果自然界的法則是這樣那麼你可能要問自己如果我們想創造出其他的人種要產生多大的變異才可以？Svante Paabo 給出了答案人類和尼安德塔人(遠古的人種)基因上只有0.004%的差別一個人種和另一個人種就是這麼一點差別這就解釋了現在多數的政治糾紛 (笑聲) 大家仔細想一想一件非常有意思的事情這些變異有多麼微妙？又是在哪發生的？人類和尼安德塔人的不同在於精子與睪丸氣味與皮膚這些特殊的基因產生了人與人的區別因此一點小小的變化就能產生很大的影響 大家想想我們一直在變異在大約一萬年前的黑海人類的一個基因產生了變異因此出現了藍色的眼睛這樣的變異一直持續著、持續著 與此同時一件大事將在今年發生我們將發現前一萬個人類基因組這得益於基因序列研究已經不那麼昂貴了當我們發現這些基因之後我們會找到一些不同以往的理論 順便說一句，我們沒有準備好爭論這個問題因為我們在這個問題上誤用了科學在1920年代，我們曾認為不同人之間的基因有很大差別這是部分基於法蘭西斯•高爾頓的研究他是達爾文的表弟在美國，卡內基研究所史丹佛，美國神經病學協會把這種研究進一步深入進而傳播到其他地方被錯誤地使用事實上它對人類平等待遇造成了非常可怕的後果所以自1940年代，我們一直在說我們沒有差別大家都是一樣的今年年底我們將知道這是不是真的 現在大家想想事實上，我們開始發現一些東西比如，你有ACE基因嗎？它有什麼重要的呢？因為沒有一個不帶氧氣能爬上8000米高的山峰的人是不攜帶ACE基因的如果你想瞭解得更具體來看看577R基因型怎麼樣？結果表明每個接受檢測的奧運男運動員都攜帶這種基因型的至少一種變體 如果這是真的那麼就有一些很複雜的問題留給倫敦奧運會三個問題我們希望奧運會成為刻苦訓練的、擁有突變基因的運動員展示的舞臺嗎？(笑聲)第二為什麼我們不像高爾夫球或者帆船運動那樣比賽呢？因為你有這個基因、而你沒有我會讓你搶佔十分之一秒的優勢第三因為這是自然形成的基因你有幸的到了這個基因、而你卻投錯了胎所以你可以晉級三種不同的選擇如果這些差別就是奧運獎牌和非奧運獎牌的差別 就像我們所發現的一樣人類非常願意改變自己的容貌、 行為方式以及身體狀況在美國有過大約1020萬例整形外科手術除了那些即將上線的新技術現如今修復、去除豐胸、美容看起來如同兒戲一般 我們在TED上看過 Tony Atala 的研究這種填充東西的技術就像是裝滿細胞的噴墨水匣一樣讓我們能隨心所欲的 “列印” 皮膚、器官以及一系列身體部位隨著這些技術的進步我們會不斷看到這個，我們會不斷看到這個，我們會不斷看到新東西2000年，人類基因組序列事情就好像是直到該發生的時候才會發生我們也許就處在發生重大變革的這幾個星期內 我們知道這兩位在2000年研究人類基因序列還有2000年的人類基因序列公開專案然後就沒有太多這方面的消息了直到大家聽說在中國的一次實驗他們從老鼠身上取出皮膚細胞在上面注入四種化學藥劑把皮膚細胞轉變成幹細胞讓這些幹細胞生長然後完全“複製”了那只老鼠 這是很了不起的因為從本質上講這就意味著我們可以拿一個多能幹細胞它們就像山頂上的滑雪者兩個滑雪者就是兩個多功能幹細胞分裂成四個、八個、十六個然後就變得越來越擁擠十六次分裂之後這些細胞不得不變異所以他們從山的一面走下來他們從另一面走下來當他們選擇了這條路就變成了骨骼那些選擇另一條路的變成了血小板這些變成了巨噬細胞這些變成了T細胞可是一旦你滑下去就很難再回頭了當然啦，除非你有滑雪纜車那四種化學藥劑的作用就是載著細胞回到山頂上讓它們具有變成身體任何部分的能力 正如大家所想的這就意味著我們很有可能只用一個細胞複製任何器官這是一個重大突破因為現在不僅是老鼠細胞我們可以把人類的皮膚細胞變成幹細胞就在10月份他們把皮膚細胞變成了幹細胞然後開始把它們變成肝臟細胞所以理論上講我們的任何一個細胞可以被培養成任何一個器官 這是第二個實驗如果我們能給身體做個影印件或許也想給思想做一個大約一年半之前大家在TED見過這個傢伙他做了很精彩的技術演講他是MIT的教授但本質上，他說的是利用逆轉錄病毒讓它們進入老鼠的腦細胞並用蛋白質標記它們這種蛋白質在被照亮時會發光當老鼠看到、感覺到、觸摸到東西回憶、戀愛的時候我們能夠準確描繪出腦部活動路徑我們可以用光纖電纜點亮這些相同的東西我們在做這件事情的時候可以把它們製成兩種顏色這意味著我們可以把這些資訊像二進位碼一樣下載到電腦上 這件事情本質上是什麼呢？不難想像也許有一天我們可以把自己的記憶下載到一個新的軀體裏或許也可以把別人的記憶載入到自己身上估計這只會引起一兩個小小的政治上、道德上的問題(笑聲)隨便想想而已 有一些問題正在逐漸引起哲學家、管理者經濟學家、科學家的興趣因為這些技術傳播的非常快 大家意猶未盡讓我舉個關於大腦的例子來結束今天的演講如果我們最先期待看到一個器官的顯著進化不僅因為在這方面越來越多的研究投入而且由於其具有可塑性那麼這個器官就是大腦 有證據證明這種進化正在發生嗎？讓我們來看看每千人中自閉症發生概率這是2000年的狀況這是2002年的狀況2006，2008這是不到10年的時間裏所增加的數量我們直到現在也不知道為什麼是這樣我們所知道的是，大腦潛在的以一種極度活躍的方式在反應並創造出同樣活躍的個體這僅僅是其中存在的一種情況我們還見過非常聰明的人過目不忘的人能產生牽連感覺的人精神分裂的人我們見過各種各樣的情況但現在依舊不明白為什麼這一切發會生，是又如何發生的 大家可能要問大腦是在高速進化嗎？我們是怎樣處理資料的?當涉及到有多少資料進入大腦時我們現在一天內要接收的資訊相當於過去人們一輩子所接收到的資訊現在大家考慮一下這個問題這裏有四種理論來解釋這種現象以及一系列其他的理論我給不出一個漂亮的答案在這方面確實還需要更多的研究 一個選擇是速食迷戀開始有證據表明肥胖和飲食與基因改造有關但不能確定它對嬰兒大腦運作的影響 第二個選擇是“性感的書呆子”這種情況確實很少見（笑聲）（掌聲）現在的情況是這些書呆子們聚在一起他們有很高的電腦編程技能酬勞很高還有從事其他注重細節的工作他們集中到一起尋找志同道合的人所以這就是選擇性交配假設這些基因在體系中互相增援 第三，資訊是不是太多了？我們的大腦試圖處理太多的資訊以至於有些人產生了牽連感覺他們擁有巨大的管道來記住所有事情有一些人對大量資訊過分敏感有一些人對資訊做出反應時伴隨著各種各樣心理上的狀況和反應也許是化學反應 如果發現某種情況的數量大幅度提升不是測量不準確就是有什麼事情正在迅速發展說不定就是在進化 歸根結底我認為作為一個物種我們正在轉化當Steve Gullans和我一起寫作的時候我並不這樣認為我覺得我們正在向演化人轉化無論是好是壞這都不僅僅是一個只對周圍環境有意識的人種而是一个直接的、有意的想要控制自己的种族、細菌、植物、乃至動物进化的人种我認為，如果我們的孫輩或重孫輩與我們是完全不同的物種將是一個翻天覆地的改變 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
