Talk	en	zh-tw
jude_kelly_why_women_should_tell_the_stories_of_humanity	"Why do we think that stories by men are deemed to be of universal importance, and stories by women are thought to be merely about women? My grandmother left school when she was 12. She had 14 children. My mother left school when she was 15. She was a secretary. I graduated from university to become a theater director, and that progress is entirely to do with the fact that people I'll never meet fought for women to have rights, get the vote, get education, have progress. And I'm determined to do the same, and obviously you are, too. Why not? (Applause) So I started a festival called WOW, Women of the World, seven years ago, and it's now in 20 countries across five continents. And one of those countries is Somaliland in Africa. So I traveled there last year, and part of the joy I had in going there was going to these caves. The Laas Geel caves. Now, these caves contain some of the oldest cave paintings in the world. These paintings are thought to be round about 9,000 to 11,000 years old. Art: what humanity has done ever since it evolved. It's how we speak about ourselves, how we understand our identity, how we look at our surroundings, who we find out about each other because of the meaning of our lives. That's what art is for. So look at this little picture. I think it's a little girl. I thought it was a bit like me when I was a little girl. And I thought, well, who painted this joyful, youthful figure? And I asked the curator of the caves. I said, ""Tell me about the men and women who painted these."" And he looked at me absolutely askance, and he said, ""Women didn't paint these pictures."" And I said, ""Well, it was 11,000 years ago."" I said, ""How do you know?"" (Laughter) And he said, ""Women don't do these things. Men made these marks. Women don't."" Now, I wasn't really surprised, because that's an attitude that I've seen continuously all my life as a theater maker. We are told that divine knowledge comes down through the masculine, whether it be to the imam, the priest, the rabbi, the holy man. Similarly, we're told that creative genius resides in the masculine, that it is the masculine that will be able to tell us about who we really are, that the masculine will tell the universal story on behalf of all of us, whereas women artists will really just talk about women's experiences, women's issues only really relevant to women and of passing interest to men — and really only some men. And it's that conviction, that that we are taught, that I think colors so much of whether we're prepared to believe that women's stories really matter. And unless we're prepared to believe that women's stories really matter, then women's rights don't really matter, and then change can't really come. I want to tell you about two examples of stories that are thought to be of universal importance: ""E.T."" and ""Hamlet."" (Laughter) So I took my two children when they were little — Caroline was eight and Robby was five — to see ""E.T."" And it's a fantastic story of this little alien who ends up in an American family with a mum, two brothers and a sister, but he wants to go home. Not only that, but some really bad scientists want to do some experiments on him, and they're looking for him. So the children have a plot. They decide they're going to take him back to his spaceship as soon as they can, and they plop him in a bicycle basket, and off they ride. But unfortunately, the baddies have found out, and they're catching up and they've got sirens and they've got their guns, they've got the loud-hailers, it's terribly frightening, and they're closing up on the children, and the children are never going to make it. And then all of a sudden, magically, the bikes fly up in the air, over the clouds, over the moon, and they're going to save ""E.T."" So I turn to see my children's faces, and Robby is enraptured, he's there with them, he's saving E.T., he's a happy boy. And I turn to Caroline, and she's crying her eyes out. And I said, ""What's the matter?"" And she said, ""Why can't I save E.T.? Why can't I come?"" And then all of a sudden I realized: they weren't children; they were boys — all boys. And Caroline, who had invested so much in E.T., well, she wasn't invited to save him, and she felt humiliated and spurned. So I wrote to Steven Spielberg — (Laughter) (Applause) and I said, ""I don't know if you understand the psychological importance of what's happened, and are you prepared to pay for the therapy bills?"" (Laughter) Twenty years later, I haven't had a word back from him, but I'm still hopeful. (Laughter) But I thought it was interesting, because if you read reviews of what he intended with E.T., he says very specifically, ""I wanted the world to understand that we should love and embrace difference."" But somehow he didn't include the idea of girls' difference in this thinking. He thought he was writing a story about all humanity. Caroline thought he was marginalizing half of humanity. He thought he was writing a story about human goodness; she thought he was writing a lad's heroic adventure. And this is common. Men feel they have been given the mantle for universal communication, but of course, how could they be? They are writing from male experience through male's eyes. We have to have a look at this ourselves. We have to be prepared to go back through all our books and our films, all our favorite things, and say, ""Actually, this is written by a male artist — not an artist. We have to see that so many of these stories are written through a male perspective. Which is fine, but then females need to have 50 percent of the rights for the stage, the film, the novel, the place of creativity. Let me talk about ""Hamlet."" To be or not to be. That is the question. But it's not my question. My question is: Why was I taught as a young woman that this was the quintessential example of human dilemma and human experience? It's a marvelous story, but actually, it's about a young man fearful that he won't be able to make it as a powerful figure in a male world unless he takes revenge for his father's murder. He talks a great deal to us about suicide being an option, but the reality is that the person who actually commits suicide, Ophelia, after she's been humiliated and abused by him, never gets a chance to talk to the audience about her feelings. And then when he's finished with Ophelia, he turns on his mum, because basically she has the audacity to fall in love with his uncle and enjoy sex. (Laughter) It is a great story, but it is a story about male conflict, male dilemma, male struggle. But I was told this was the story of human beings, despite the fact that it only had two women in it. And unless I reeducate myself, I am always going to think that women's stories matter less than men's. A woman could have written ""Hamlet,"" but she would have written it differently, and it wouldn't have had global recognition. As the writer Margaret Atwood says, ""When a man writes about doing the dishes, it's realism. When a woman writes about doing it, it's an unfortunate genetic disposition."" (Laughter) Now, this is not just something that belongs to then. I mean, when I was a young girl, wanting desperately to be a theater director, this is what my male lecturer said to me: ""Well, there are three women directors in Britain,"" he said, ""Jude."" ""There's Joan Knight, who's a lesbian, there's Joan Littlewood, who's retired, and there's Buzz Goodbody, who's just killed herself. So, which of those three would you like to be?"" (Laughter) Now, leaving aside the disgusting slur on gay women, the fact is, he wanted to humiliate me. He thought it was silly that I wanted to be a director. And I told my friend Marin Alsop, the conductor, and she said, ""Oh yes, well, my music teacher said exactly the same. He said, 'Women don't conduct.'"" But all these years later, we've made our mark. You think, ""Well, it'll be different now."" I'm afraid it's not different now. The current head of the Paris Conservatoire said recently, ""It takes great physical strength to conduct a symphony, and women are too weak."" (Laughter) The artist George Baselitz said, ""Well, the fact is women can't paint. Well — they can't paint very well."" The writer V.S. Naipaul said two years ago, ""I can read two paragraphs and know immediately if it's written by a woman, and I just stop reading, because it's not worthy of me."" Audience: Whoa! And it goes on. We have to find a way of stopping young girls and women feeling not only that their story doesn't matter, but they're not allowed to be the storyteller. Because once you feel that you can't stand in the central space and speak on behalf of the world, you will feel that you can offer your goods up to a small, select group. You will tend to do smaller work on smaller stages, your economic power will be less, your reach of audiences will be less, and your credit will be less as an artist. And we do finally give artists these incredible, prominent spaces in the world, because they are our storytellers. Now, why should it matter to you if you're not an artist? Supposing you're an accountant or an entrepreneur or a medic or a scientist: Should you care about women artists? Absolutely, you must, because as you can see from the cave paintings, all civilizations, all of humanity have relied upon artists to tell the human story, and if the human story is finally told by men, take my word for it, it will be about men. So let's make a change. Let's make a change to all our institutions, and not just in the West. Don't forget — this message of incapability of women to hold creative genius is being told to girls and women in Nigeria, in China, in Russia, in Indonesia. All over the world, girls and women are being told that they can't finally hold the idea of creative inspiration. And I want to ask you: Do you believe that? Do you believe that women can be a creative genius? (Applause and cheers) Well then, please go forward, support women artists, buy their work, insist that their voices are heard, find platforms on which their voices will be made. And remember this: that in a sense, if we're going to get past this moment of a world where we know that we are unequal, it's artists who have to imagine a different world. And I'm calling on all artists, women and men, to imagine a gender-equal world. Let's paint it. Let's draw it. Let's write about it. Let's film it. And if we could imagine it, then we would have the energy and the stamina to work towards it. When I see this little girl, 11,000 years ago, I want to know that the little girl now can stand there and think she's entitled to her dreams, she's entitled to her destiny and she's entitled to speak on behalf of the whole world, be recognized for it and applauded. Thank you. (Applause)"	為什麼我們認為由男性寫的故事具有普世的重要性，而女性寫的故事則被認為僅僅是關於女人？當我奶奶 12 歲時，她就離開了學校。她有 14 個小孩。我母親 15 歲時離開了學校，她是一個秘書。我從大學畢業後成為了一名舞臺導演，這一進步完全歸功於，那些我從未見過而為爭取女權奮鬥的人。包括女性的投票權、受教育權、取得進步。我決心做一樣的事，很顯然你們也可以。何不呢？（掌聲） 所以七年前，我創立了一個叫 WOW 的節日——世界上的女人。現在 WOW 遍佈五大洲的 20 個國家。其中一個國家是在非洲的索馬利蘭，我去年去那裡旅行，我去那兒的樂趣之一是去這個岩洞穴，拉絲·吉爾洞穴，這些洞穴裡有一些世界上最古老的洞穴壁畫。這些壁畫被認為是在大約 9,000到 11,000 年前完成的。藝術：是人類從進化以來所做的。它詮釋我們怎樣談論自己，我們如何了解自我，我們怎樣看待周圍的事物，因為我們生命的意義，我們發現彼此。這就是藝術的目的。 請看看這張小圖片。我覺得這是一個小女孩。我認為她有點像小時候的我。我思索，誰畫了這個快樂、年輕的畫像？我詢問了這些岩洞的負責人。「請告訴我是男人還是女人畫了這些畫。」他充滿疑問地看著我，說：「女人不會畫這些畫」。接著我說：「嗯，這是在11,000 年前畫的吧。」我又說：「你怎麼能確定？」 （笑聲） 他說：「女人不幹這些事。男人做了這些標記。女人不行的。」 我不太驚訝，因為這是我作為舞台製作人，一生中持續看到的一種態度。我們被告知，神的啟示是通過男性傳播的,無論是傳給伊瑪目、牧師、拉比、還是聖人，同樣，我們被告知，最有創造力的天才是在男性之中，正是男性，能告訴我們自己是誰。男性將會代表我們所有人，講述全體的故事。但女性藝術家僅僅只能談論關於女性的經驗，僅僅關於女性的問題，男性頂多短暫的關心——而且真的只有某些男性會關心。就是那個信念，我們被告知的，我認為大大的影響了我們是否準備去相信女性的故事真的很重要，除非我們準備去相信女性的故事真的很重要，否則女性的權利就會無關緊要，改變就不會真的發生。 我想要告訴你兩個故事的例子，是被公認為普遍重要的兩個故事：「E.T. 外星人」和「哈姆雷特」。 （笑聲） 在他們小的時候，我帶著我的兩個孩子——卡洛琳八歲，羅比五歲——去看「E.T. 外星人」。這是關於一個小外星人的奇妙故事，他降落到了一個美國家庭，有一個媽媽，兩個兄弟和一個妹妹，但是他還是想回家。不只如此，還有一些邪惡的科學家想在他身上進行一些實驗，他們正在尋找 E.T.。所以孩子們想出了一個計畫。他們決定儘快帶他返回太空飛船。他們把他放到腳踏車的籃子裡，騎著離開了。然而不幸的是，壞蛋們發現了並追捕他們。他們有警報器，他們有槍，他們有擴音器，真是嚇人。他們幾乎追趕上孩子們了。看起來孩子們不能帶 E.T. 回去了。就在這時，突然，神奇地，他們的腳踏車飛到了空中，越過雲層，越過月亮，他們保護了 E.T.。 我回頭去看我兩個孩子的臉，羅比沈浸在電影中，他好像就和那些孩子一起救了 E.T.，他很高興。我轉頭看卡洛琳，她把眼睛哭紅了。我問她：「怎麼啦？」她說：「為什麼我不能去救 E.T.，為什麼我不能去？」我猛然意識到：救 E.T. 的不是孩子，他們都是男孩——全部都是男孩。卡洛琳投入了如此多的感情在 E.T. 上，她卻沒有被邀請去救他，她感到羞辱和被冷落。 所以我寫信給史蒂芬·史匹柏—— （笑）（掌聲） 我說：「我不知道你是否理解你的故事對小女孩的心理產生什麼影響，你準備好支付心裡醫療費了嗎？」 （笑） 二十多年過去了，我還沒收到他寫的隻字片語，但我仍抱有希望。 （笑） 但我認為這是有趣的，因為如果你讀了他製作 E.T. 的用意，他說得很明確：「我想讓這個世界了解我們應該兼愛和擁抱不同。」但不知何故他沒有把女孩子的不同包括在這個想法裡。他認為他在寫關於全人類的故事。卡洛琳認為他忽視了一半的人類。他認為他在寫關於人類善的故事；卡洛琳則認為他在寫的是有關一個小伙子的英雄歷險記。 這是很普遍的。男人感覺他們被賦予為全人類溝通的權利，但顯然，他們怎麼可能？他們都是根據從男人的雙眼得到的男性經驗來寫。我們自己必須看清這一點。我們必須審查我們所有的書，所有的電影，以及所有我們喜愛的東西。然後說：「事實上，這是由男性藝術家所寫的——而非一位藝術家。」我們必須看清許多這種故事，是以男性的視角寫的。這點沒有問題。但女性應該擁有 50% 的權利，在舞台上、電影、小說等發揮創造力的地方。 讓我談談「哈姆雷特」，生存還是毀滅，這是一個問題。但這不是我的問題。我的問題是：為什麼在我年輕的時候，我被教導這是一個關於人類困境和人類經驗最經典的例子？這是一個非凡的故事，但實際上，這是關於一個年輕人，害怕自己不能夠在男性世界中成為一個強有力的人物，除非他向他父親的謀殺者報復。哈姆雷特一再對我們說，自殺是一個選擇。但在現實中，那個真正自殺了的人，奧菲莉亞，在她被哈姆雷特羞辱和謾罵之後，她從沒有機會向觀眾訴說她的感受。接著當他懲罰完奧菲莉亞後，他轉向他的母親，基本上因為她厚顏無恥地愛上他的舅舅，並享受性愛。 （笑聲） 這確實是個很棒的故事，但這是個關於男性的矛盾、男性的困境、以及男性的掙扎的故事。但我被教導這是個關於人類的故事，儘管事實上這個故事裡只有兩個女性。除非我將我自己洗腦了，我將會一直認為：女性的故事遠不如男性的故事重要。若是一個女人寫了「哈姆雷特」，她可能會寫的很不同，它也不會得到全世界的認可。就如作家瑪格麗特·愛德華說的，「當一個男人寫關於洗碗的時候，就是寫實主義。當一個女人寫說她在洗碗，那是她作為女人的本分。」 （笑聲） 這不僅是「那時」的故事。我是說，當我是年輕女孩的時候，拼命想要成為一名舞臺導演，這是我的男導師跟我說：他說：「裘德，英國只有三位女導。一位是瓊·納特，她是女同性戀，一個叫瓊·莉特伍德，她退休了，還有一個是布茲·古德博蒂，她最近自殺了。所以，你想成為她們中的哪一位？」 （笑聲） 先拋開對女同性戀者的噁心誹謗，事實上，他想讓我丟臉。他覺得我想成為一名導演是愚蠢的。我告訴了我的朋友瑪琳·奧爾索普，她是一位指揮家，她說：「喔是的，我的音樂老師說過一模一樣的話」。他說：「女人不能指揮。」但這麼多年過去了，我們都有所成就。你會想，「嗯，現在不一樣了。」恐怕現在並沒有什麼不同。巴黎音樂學校的現任領導者，最近說：「指揮一個交響樂團需要很大的體力，但女性太虛弱了。」 （笑聲） 藝術家喬治·巴塞利兹說：「嗯，事實上女性不能畫畫。她們畫不好。」 作家 V·S· 奈波爾在兩年前說：「我只要讀兩段就立刻知道是女性寫的，然後我馬上停止閱讀，因為不值得我去讀。」 （觀眾： 哇！） 這種情況言之不盡。 我們必須找到一種方法，讓年輕的女孩和女人不會認為她們的故事不重要，或者她們不能成為故事的講述者。因為一旦你覺得你不能站在中心的位置，代表世界講話，你就會覺得你只能向一個小的、特定的團體提供你的產品。你將會傾向於在小舞台做小的作品，你的經濟實力將會比較弱，你的觀眾將會更少，你比較不容易被當成藝術家。我們最後將世界上絕妙、顯著的空間，拱手讓給所謂的藝術家，因為他們是全體人類的說故事人。 如果你不是藝術家，為什麼這對你也很重要？假設你是一位會計師、企業家、醫師或是科學家，你應該關心女性藝術家嗎？你們絕對應該。因為你可從那些洞穴的壁畫裡看到，所有的文明，全部的人類，都依賴藝術家來講述人類故事，如果人類故事最終都由男性來講敘述，相信我，它一定是關於男性。 所以讓我們做一個改變。讓我們改變所有的機構，不只在西方國家。不要忘記——女性無法成為有創造力的天才的訊息，正在被教導給在奈及利亞、中國、俄羅斯，以及在印尼的女孩和女人。全世界的女孩和女人都被告知她們不能最終持有創意靈感的想法。但是我想問你們，你相信這個說法嗎？你相信女人能夠成為一位富有創造力的天才嗎？ （歡呼聲）（掌聲） 若是如此，請大步向前，支持女性藝術家，購買她們的作品，堅持她們的聲音被聽到，找到能讓她們發出聲音的舞台。然後請記住：在某種意義上，如果我們想要跨越這一刻，跨過這個我們已知是不平等的世界，藝術家必須想像一個不同的世界，我呼籲所有女性和男性藝術家，想像一個性別平等的世界。讓我們畫出它。讓我們描繪它。讓我們寫出它。讓我們拍出它。如果我們能夠想像它，我們就會擁有能量和活力，為朝向它而奮鬥。 當我看到這個小女孩，11,000 年以前的畫像，我想要知道這小女孩現在能站在這兒，想像她有權夢想，她有權決定她的命運，她有權代表整個世界發言，被認可，然後被喝采。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
