Talk	en	zh-tw
kailash_satyarthi_how_to_make_peace_get_angry	"Today, I am going to talk about anger. When I was 11, seeing some of my friends  leaving the school because their parents  could not afford textbooks made me angry. When I was 27, hearing the plight of a desperate slave father whose daughter was  about to be sold to a brothel made me angry. At the age of 50, lying on the street, in a pool of blood, along with my own son, made me angry. Dear friends, for centuries we were taught anger is bad. Our parents, teachers, priests — everyone taught us how to control  and suppress our anger. But I ask why? Why can't we convert our anger for the larger good of society? Why can't we use our anger to challenge and change the evils of the world? That I tried to do. Friends, most of the brightest ideas came to my mind out of anger. Like when I was 35 and sat  in a locked-up, tiny prison. The whole night, I was angry. But it has given birth to a new idea. But I will come to that later on. Let me begin with the story of how I got a name for myself. I had been a big admirer  of Mahatma Gandhi since my childhood. Gandhi fought and lead  India's freedom movement. But more importantly, he taught us how to treat  the most vulnerable sections, the most deprived people,  with dignity and respect. And so, when India was celebrating Mahatma Gandhi's  birth centenary in 1969 — at that time I was 15 — an idea came to my mind. Why can't we celebrate it differently? I knew, as perhaps many of you might know, that in India, a large number of people are born in the lowest segment of caste. And they are treated as untouchables. These are the people — forget about allowing them  to go to the temples, they cannot even go into the houses  and shops of high-caste people. So I was very impressed with  the leaders of my town who were speaking very highly against the caste system and untouchability and talking of Gandhian ideals. So inspired by that, I thought, let us set an example by inviting these people to eat food cooked and served by the untouchable community. I went to some low-caste, so-called untouchable, people, tried to convince them, but it was unthinkable for them. They told me, ""No, no. It's not possible. It never happened."" I said, ""Look at these leaders, they are so great,  they are against untouchability. They will come. If nobody comes,  we can set an example."" These people thought that I was too naive. Finally, they were convinced. My friends and I took our bicycles and invited political leaders. And I was so thrilled, rather, empowered to see that each one of them  agreed to come. I thought, ""Great idea. We can set an example. We can bring about change in the society."" The day has come. All these untouchables, three women and two men, they agreed to come. I could recall that they had used  the best of their clothes. They brought new utensils. They had taken baths  hundreds of times because it was unthinkable for them to do. It was the moment of change. They gathered. Food was cooked. It was 7 o'clock. By 8 o'clock, we kept on waiting, because it's not very uncommon  that the leaders become late, for an hour or so. So after 8 o'clock, we took our bicycles and went to these leaders' homes, just to remind them. One of the leader's wives told me, ""Sorry, he is having some headache, perhaps he cannot come."" I went to another leader and his wife told me,  ""Okay, you go, he will definitely join."" So I thought that the dinner will take place, though not at that large a scale. I went back to the venue, which was a newly built Mahatma Gandhi Park. It was 10 o'clock. None of the leaders showed up. That made me angry. I was standing, leaning against Mahatma Gandhi's statue. I was emotionally drained, rather exhausted. Then I sat down where  the food was lying. I kept my emotions on hold. But then, when I took the first bite, I broke down in tears. And suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder. And it was the healing, motherly touch  of an untouchable woman. And she told me, ""Kailash, why are you crying? You have done your bit. You have eaten the food cooked by untouchables, which has never happened in our memory."" She said, ""You won today."" And my friends, she was right. I came back home, a little after midnight, shocked to see that several  high-caste elderly people were sitting in my courtyard. I saw my mother and  elderly women were crying and they were pleading  to these elderly people because they had threatened  to outcaste my whole family. And you know, outcasting the family is the biggest social punishment one can think of. Somehow they agreed to punish only me, and the punishment was purification. That means I had to go 600 miles away from my hometown to the River Ganges to take a holy dip. And after that, I should organize a feast for priests, 101 priests, wash their feet and drink that water. It was total nonsense, and I refused to accept that punishment. How did they punish me? I was barred from entering into my own  kitchen and my own dining room, my utensils were separated. But the night when I was angry, they wanted to outcaste me. But I decided to outcaste  the entire caste system. (Applause) And that was possible because the beginning would have been to change the family name, or surname, because in India, most of the family names are caste names. So I decided to drop my name. And then, later on, I gave  a new name to myself: Satyarthi, that means, ""seeker of truth."" (Applause) And that was the beginning  of my transformative anger. Friends, maybe one of you can tell me, what was I doing before becoming a children's rights activist? Does anybody know? No. I was an engineer, an electrical engineer. And then I learned how the energy of burning fire, coal, the nuclear blast inside the chambers, raging river currents, fierce winds, could be converted into the light  and lives of millions. I also learned how the most uncontrollable form of energy could be harnessed for good  and making society better. So I'll come back to the story of when I was caught in the prison: I was very happy freeing  a dozen children from slavery, handing them over to their parents. I cannot explain my joy  when I free a child. I was so happy. But when I was waiting for my train to come back to my hometown, Delhi, I saw that dozens of children  were arriving; they were being trafficked by someone. I stopped them, those people. I complained to the police. So the policemen, instead of helping me, they threw me in this small,  tiny shell, like an animal. And that was the night of anger when one of the brightest  and biggest ideas was born. I thought that if I keep on freeing 10  children, and 50 more will join, that's not done. And I believed in the power of consumers, and let me tell you that this was the first time when a campaign was launched by me or anywhere in the world, to educate and sensitize the consumers to create a demand for child-labor-free rugs. In Europe and America,  we have been successful. And it has resulted  in a fall in child labor in South Asian countries by 80 percent. (Applause) Not only that, but this first-ever  consumer's power, or consumer's campaign has grown in other countries and other industries, maybe chocolate, maybe apparel,  maybe shoes — it has gone beyond. My anger at the age of 11, when I realized how important education is for every child, I got an idea to collect used books and help the poorest children. I created a book bank at the age of 11. But I did not stop. Later on, I cofounded the world's single largest civil society campaign for education that is the Global Campaign for Education. That has helped in changing  the whole thinking towards education from the charity mode to the human rights mode, and that has concretely helped  the reduction of out-of-school children by half in the last 15 years. (Applause) My anger at the age of 27, to free that girl who was about to be sold to a brothel, has given me an idea to go for a new strategy of raid and rescue, freeing children from slavery. And I am so lucky and proud to say that it is not one or 10 or 20, but my colleagues and I have been able to physically liberate 83,000 child slaves and hand them over back to their families and mothers. (Applause) I knew that we needed global policies. We organized the worldwide marches against child labor and that has also resulted in  a new international convention to protect the children who are in the worst forms. And the concrete result was that the number of child laborers globally has gone down by one third  in the last 15 years. (Applause) So, in each case, it began from anger, turned into an idea, and action. So anger, what next? Idea, and — Audience: Action Kailash Satyarthi: Anger, idea, action. Which I tried to do. Anger is a power, anger is an energy, and the law of nature is that energy can never be created and never  be vanished, can never be destroyed. So why can't the energy of anger be translated and harnessed to create a better and beautiful world, a more just and equitable world? Anger is within each one of you, and I will share a secret for a few seconds: that if we are confined in  the narrow shells of egos, and the circles of selfishness, then the anger will turn out to be hatred, violence, revenge, destruction. But if we are able to break the circles, then the same anger could turn  into a great power. We can break the circles  by using our inherent compassion and connect with the world through  compassion to make this world better. That same anger could be transformed into it. So dear friends, sisters and brothers, again, as a Nobel Laureate, I am urging you to become angry. I am urging you to become angry. And the angriest among us is the one who can transform his anger  into idea and action. Thank you so much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: For many years,  you've been an inspiration to others. Who or what inspires you and why? KS: Good question. Chris, let me tell you,  and that is the truth, each time when I free a child, the child who has lost all his hope that he will ever come back to his mother, the first smile of freedom, and the mother who has lost all hope that the son or daughter  can ever come back and sit in her lap, they become so emotional and the first tear of joy  rolls down on her cheek, I see the glimpse of God in it — this is my biggest inspiration. And I am so lucky that not once, as I said before, but thousands of times, I have been able to witness my God in the faces of those children and they are my biggest inspirations. Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天，我想談一談憤怒。在我11歲時，看到我有些朋友，因為父母付不起課本錢而不得不輟學，讓我很憤怒。在我27歲的時候，聽到一個奴隸父親的絕望困境，他的女兒就快被賣到妓院去了，讓我很憤怒。在我50歲的時候，我的兒子與我，一起倒臥在馬路上的血泊中，讓我憤怒。 親愛的朋友，幾世紀以來，我們都被教導：憤怒是不好的。我們的父母、師長、神職人員 —每個人都教導我們，該如何控制、壓抑憤怒。但我要問，為什麼？為什麼我們不能將憤怒轉化為推動社會進步的力量？我們為何不運用我們的憤怒，去挑戰、去改變世上的邪惡呢？我試著這麼做。 朋友們，我最絕妙的點子，大部分都是因為憤怒而萌生。例如在我35歲時，坐在狹小、深鎖的牢房裡，我整晚都很憤怒。但憤怒，卻促成了新想法的誕生。這個我等一下再談。讓我先說一段故事，是關於我名字的由來。 我從小就非常景仰聖雄甘地。甘地參與、且領導印度的民族解放運動。但更重要的，他教導我們如何對待社會上最脆弱的族群，那些最弱勢、最沒有身分和尊嚴的人。所以，在1969年，印度正在慶祝甘地的誕辰紀念日，那年我15歲 —我突然靈機一動，我們何不換一種方式來慶祝呢？我知道，你們很多人可能也知道，在印度的種姓制度下，有許多人生來就是最低等級。他們被稱為「不可觸碰的賤民」。這些人 —別說是進寺廟了，就連比較高階貴族的住家或商店，他們都不能進去。 所以我非常敬佩我們鎮上的幾位領袖，他們高聲反對種姓和賤民制度，也宣揚甘地的理想。我深受啟發，於是想，我們來開個先河，由這些不可觸碰的賤民準備菜餚，作東宴請這些領袖們。我去找一些低種姓的""賤民""，試著說服他們，但他們連想都不敢想。他們說，「不，不可能的，從來沒發生過。」我說，「你們看這些領袖，他們這麼偉大，竭力反對賤民制度，他們會來的。就算他們沒來，我們也可以做個表率。」他們覺得我太天真了。但最後，他們還是相信了。 我朋友和我騎著腳踏車去邀請那些政治領袖。我好高興，不，應該說，覺得自己充滿力量。因為每一位領袖都答應要參加。我當時想，「太棒了，我們可以一開先河，我們可以對社會帶來改變。」 那天終於來了。所有我邀的賤民階層，三女二男，都同意參加。我還記得他們當時穿上了最好的衣服。帶了新的餐具，還洗澡洗了好幾百次，因為他們無法想像這居然成真了。這是改變的時刻。他們聚在一起，食物也煮好了，時間是七點。到八點了，我們繼續等，因為這些領袖遲到一個多小時，也不怎麼奇怪。 所以八點過後，我們騎著腳踏車到這些領袖的家，只想提醒他們一下。其中一位領袖的太太告訴我，「抱歉，他頭痛，可能不會到了。」我去找了另一位領袖，他太太說，「好，你先去，他一定會到的。」所以我想，餐會仍會照常舉行，只是規模沒有那麼大而已。 我回到活動現場，地點在一個新落成的甘地紀念公園。十點了。沒有任何一位領袖出現。這真讓我憤怒了。我站在那裏，倚靠著聖雄甘地的雕像。我真的心力交瘁，疲憊不堪。於是我在食物旁邊坐了下來，我努力壓抑自己的情緒。但是，當我吃下第一口食物時，我的眼淚終於潰堤了。突然，有人伸手搭我的肩。原來是其中一位賤民女性，有如慈母般的撫觸。她告訴我，「凱拉許，你為什麼在哭？你已經盡力了，你也吃了由賤民煮的食物，這在我們記憶中從沒發生過的。」她說：「今天，你成功了。」我的朋友們，她說對了。 我那天在稍過午夜後回到家，我驚訝的發現，有幾個高階種姓的長者坐在我家庭院裡。我看到我母親和幾位女長輩正在流眼淚，她們正在哀求那些耆老，因為耆老們決定要將我們全家逐出種姓，你們也知道，整個家族被逐出種姓，是人們心目中最嚴厲的社會懲罰。後來他們決議，只懲罰我一個人，懲罰方式是淨化滌罪。意思是，我必須離鄉六百哩，到恆河去受神聖之水的洗滌。在洗滌完後，我還要辦一個宴會，邀請101位教士，為他們洗腳，並且喝下洗腳水。 這根本就是荒謬至極！因此我拒絕接受這種懲罰。所以他們如何懲罰我呢？我被禁止再進入自己的廚房和飯廳，我的餐具都必須要分開。但雖然在我憤怒的那晚，他們就決定要放逐我，但我決定，是我，要來揚棄這整套種姓制度。(掌聲) 這是可以做到的，因為首先，我只需要改姓氏，因為在印度，大部分的家族姓氏都是種姓階級名稱。所以我決定改掉名字。之後，我給自己一個新名字：沙提雅提，意思是：「真理的追求者。」(掌聲)這也開啟了我轉化憤怒的旅程。 朋友們，你們可能有人可以告訴我，我在成為兒童維權人士前，都在做些甚麼？有人知道嗎？沒有。我是一個工程師，電子工程師。後來我學到，燃燒的火焰、或煤炭的能量，或反應爐中的核爆、洶湧的波濤、狂嘯的強風 都可以被轉化為點亮萬眾生命的燈火。我也學到，世上最難以控制的能量，是可以被永久駕馭，且造福社會的。 所以，我要回到我坐牢的那段故事。我很高興我解放了數十個被奴役的小孩，讓他們可以回到父母身邊。解放一個小孩，那種快樂簡直無法言喻。我真的好快樂。但當我準備回到我德里的家鄉，在月台上等火車時，我看到好幾十個小孩到車站，他們被人口販子押著，準備要被賣掉。我攔下這群人，並且叫警察來。結果警察不但沒有幫我，反而像對待動物一般，把我丟進狹小的牢房裡。這是一個憤怒的夜晚，但那一夜，最燦爛的點子誕生了。我發現，就算我能再解救10位孩子，也還會再有另50位被奴役，這樣解決不了問題。而我相信消費者的力量。我告訴你們，這是首次，世界上有人，也就是我，發起運動，來教育、提高消費者的敏感度，創造了「無童工地毯」這種新的需求。在歐美，我們都做得很成功，這也造成南亞童工數量，下降了百分之80。(掌聲) 不只這樣，這個史無前例的消費者運動，還拓展到了其他國家、以及其他產業，或許是巧克力業、成衣業、鞋業，很多其他產業受影響。我11歲時，當我了解到，教育對每一位孩童來說有多重要，我的憤怒讓我靈機一動，募集二手課本，來幫助窮苦的小孩。我在11歲時就建立了圖書銀行。但我並沒有就此停下腳步。我後來，還與其他人共同創立了全球最大規模推動教育的公民組織運動。名為「全球教育運動」。這項運動幫助世界重新定義教育，從公益慈善的角度，轉化成基本人權的角度。而這個運動具體影響了輟學兒童的數量，在近15年間，就減少了一半。(掌聲) 我27歲時，為了要搶救快被賣到妓院的少女，我的憤怒讓我有了新點子，去嘗試全新的策略：掠奪式營救，來拯救孩童脫離奴役。我很幸運，也很驕傲的告訴大家，我們不只救了十幾二十人，我的同事和我，已經合作拯救了8萬3千名孩子，讓他們可以回到家人、母親身邊。(掌聲) 我知道我們需要全球性的策略。我們在世界各地發起遊行，反對童工制度，這也讓各國建立了新的國際慣例，去保護他們國內最弱勢的孩童。最顯著的成效，就是全球童工的數量，在近15年內，已減少了三分之一。(掌聲) 以上的每個例子，都是由憤怒開始，然後轉化成一個想法、再變成行動。所以，憤怒，再來是甚麼？想法。再來呢？觀眾：行動。凱拉許：憤怒、想法、行動。我試著付諸實踐。 憤怒是原動力，憤怒是一種能量，而大自然的法則就是：能量不會憑空產生，也不會無端消逝，它無法被消滅。因此，我們何不將憤怒的能量轉化、駕馭它、並用它來創造一個更好、更美、更正義、更公平的社會？ 我們每個人心裡都有憤怒。我跟你們分享一個秘密：如果我們都只把自己侷限在自我意識的窠臼中，陷入自私的循環，那憤怒就會轉變為仇恨、暴力、報復和破壞。但如果我們可以打破這循環，同樣的憤怒可能可以轉化為更偉大的力量。我們可以用與生俱來的同理心來打破這循環，用這同理心來和世界連結，讓世界更好。一樣的憤怒，可以被轉化為同理心。 所以，親愛的朋友、姊妹、兄弟們，我要再以諾貝爾和平獎得主的身分告訴你們，我鼓勵你們憤怒！我鼓勵你們心中燃起怒火。而我們之中最憤怒的人，將會是可以將憤怒轉化為想法和行動的人。 感謝各位。 (掌聲) 克里斯‧安德森：多年來，你啟發過許多人。而是誰啟發了你？為什麼？ 凱拉許：好問題。克里斯，讓我告訴你，這是實話，我每次解救一個小孩，這小孩本來完全放棄希望，他不指望有朝一日可以回到母親身邊，而那初獲自由的笑容令人難忘。那母親本來也失去一切希望，不認為自己的兒子或女兒有天可以回到她身邊，她們看到兒女時那種激動，掉在她臉頰上的第一滴眼淚裡，我在裡面可以看見上帝，這是我最大的啟發。我很幸運，因為不只一次，我說過，而是千千萬萬次，我在孩子臉上看到了我的上帝，這是我最大的啟發。謝謝。 (掌聲)"
