Talk	en	zh-tw
kandice_sumner_how_america_s_public_schools_keep_kids_in_poverty	"I want to talk to you about my kids. Now, I know everyone thinks that their kid is the most fantastic, the most beautiful kid that ever lived. But mine really are. (Laughter) I have 696 kids, and they are the most intelligent, inventive, innovative, brilliant and powerful kids that you'll ever meet. Any student I've had the honor of teaching in my classroom is my kid. However, because their ""real"" parents aren't rich and, I argue, because they are mostly of color, they will seldom get to see in themselves the awesomeness that I see in them. Because what I see in them is myself — or what would have been myself. I am the daughter of two hardworking, college-educated, African-American parents who chose careers as public servants: my father, a minister; my mother, an educator. Wealth was never the primary ambition in our house. Because of this lack of wealth, we lived in a neighborhood that lacked wealth, and henceforth a school system that lacked wealth. Luckily, however, we struck the educational jackpot in a voluntary desegregation program that buses inner-city kids — black and brown — out to suburban schools — rich and white. At five years old, I had to take an hour-long bus ride to a faraway place to get a better education. At five years old, I thought everyone had a life just like mine. I thought everyone went to school and were the only ones using the brown crayons to color in their family portraits, while everyone else was using the peach-colored ones. At five years old, I thought everyone was just like me. But as I got older, I started noticing things, like: How come my neighborhood friend don't have to wake up at five o'clock in the morning, and go to a school that's an hour away? How come I'm learning to play the violin while my neighborhood friends don't even have a music class? Why were my neighborhood friends learning and reading material that I had done two to three years prior? See, as I got older, I started to have this unlawful feeling in my belly, like I was doing something that I wasn't supposed to be doing; taking something that wasn't mine; receiving a gift, but with someone else's name on it. All these amazing things that I was being exposed to and experiencing, I felt I wasn't really supposed to have. I wasn't supposed to have a library, fully equipped athletic facilities, or safe fields to play in. I wasn't supposed to have theatre departments with seasonal plays and concerts — digital, visual, performing arts. I wasn't supposed to have fully resourced biology or chemistry labs, school buses that brought me door-to-door, freshly prepared school lunches or even air conditioning. These are things my kids don't get. You see, as I got older, while I was grateful for this amazing opportunity that I was being given, there was this ever-present pang of: But what about everyone else? There are thousands of other kids just like me, who deserve this, too. Why doesn't everyone get this? Why is a high-quality education only exclusive to the rich? It was like I had some sort of survivor's remorse. All of my neighborhood friends were experiencing an educational train wreck that I was saved from through a bus ride. I was like an educational Moses screaming, ""Let my people go ... to high-quality schools!"" (Laughter) I'd seen firsthand how the other half was being treated and educated. I'd seen the educational promised land, and I could not for the life of me justify the disparity. I now teach in the very same school system from which I sought refuge. I know firsthand the tools that were given to me as a student, and now as a teacher, I don't have access to those same tools to give my students. There have been countless nights when I've cried in frustration, anger and sorrow, because I can't teach my kids the way that I was taught, because I don't have access to the same resources or tools that were used to teach me. My kids deserve so much better. We sit and we keep banging our heads against this term: ""Achievement gap, achievement gap!"" Is it really that hard to understand why these kids perform well and these kids don't? I mean, really. I think we've got it all wrong. I think we, as Gloria Ladson-Billings says, should flip our paradigm and our language and call it what it really is. It's not an achievement gap; it's an education debt, for all of the foregone schooling resources that were never invested in the education of the black and brown child over time. A little-known secret in American history is that the only American institution created specifically for people of color is the American slave trade — and some would argue the prison system, but that's another topic for another TED Talk. (Laughter) The public school system of this country was built, bought and paid for using commerce generated from the slave trade and slave labor. While African-Americans were enslaved and prohibited from schooling, their labor established the very institution from which they were excluded. Ever since then, every court case, educational policy, reform, has been an attempt to retrofit the design, rather than just stopping and acknowledging: we've had it all wrong from the beginning. An oversimplification of American educational history. All right, just bear with me. Blacks were kept out — you know, the whole slavery thing. With the help of philanthropic white people, they built their own schools. Separate but equal was OK. But while we all know things were indeed separate, they were in no ways equal. Enter Brown v. the Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas in 1954; legal separation of the races is now illegal. But very few people pay attention to all of the court cases since then, that have undone the educational promised land for every child that Brown v. Board intended. Some argue that today our schools are now more segregated than they ever were before we tried to desegregate them in the first place. Teaching my kids about desegregation, the Little Rock Nine, the Civil Rights Movement, is a real awkward moment in my classroom, when I have to hear the voice of a child ask, ""If schools were desegregated in 1954, how come there are no white kids here?"" (Laughter) These kids aren't dumb. They know exactly what's happening, and what's not. They know that when it comes to schooling, black lives don't matter and they never have. For years, I tried desperately to cultivate in my kids a love of reading. I'd amassed a modest classroom library of books I'd accumulated from secondhand shops, thrift stores, attics — you know. But whenever I said those dreadful words, ""Take out a book and read,"" you'd think I'd just declared war. It was torture. One day, after I'd heard about this website called DonorsChoose, where classroom teachers create wish lists of items they need for their classroom and anonymous donors fulfill them, I figured I'd go out on a limb and just make a wish list of the teenager's dream library. Over 200 brand-new books were sent to my room piece by piece. Every day there were new deliveries and my kids would exclaim with glee, ""This feels like Christmas!"" (Laughter) Then they'd say, ""Ms. Sumner, where did these books come from?"" And then I'd reply, ""Strangers from all over the country wanted you to have these."" And then they'd say, almost suspiciously, ""But they're brand-new."" (Laughter) To which I'd reply, ""You deserve brand-new books."" The whole experience hit home for me when one of my girls, as she peeled open a crisp paperback said, ""Ms. Sumner — you know, I figured you bought these books, 'cause you teachers are always buying us stuff. But to know that a stranger, someone I don't even know, cares this much about me is pretty cool."" Knowing that strangers will take care of you is a privilege my kids aren't afforded. Ever since the donation, there has been a steady stream of kids signing out books to take home, and then returning them with the exclamation, ""This one was good!"" (Laughter) Now when I say, ""Take out a book and read,"" kids rush to my library. It wasn't that they didn't want to read, but instead, they'd gladly read if the resources were there. Institutionally speaking, our public school system has never done right by the black and brown child. We keep focusing on the end results or test results, and getting frustrated. We get to a catastrophe and we wonder, ""How did it get so bad? How did we get here?"" Really? If you neglect a child long enough, you no longer have the right to be surprised when things don't turn out well. Stop being perplexed or confused or befuddled by the achievement gap, the income gap, the incarceration rates, or whatever socioeconomic disparity is the new ""it"" term for the moment. The problems we have as a country are the problems we created as a country. The quality of your education is directly proportionate to your access to college, your access to jobs, your access to the future. Until we live in a world where every kid can get a high-quality education no matter where they live, or the color of their skin, there are things we can do on a macro level. School funding should not be decided by property taxes or some funky economic equation where rich kids continue to benefit from state aid, while poor kids are continuously having food and resources taken from their mouths. Governors, senators, mayors, city council members — if we're going to call public education public education, then it should be just that. Otherwise, we should call it what it really is: poverty insurance. ""Public education: keeping poor kids poor since 1954."" (Laughter) If we really, as a country, believe that education is the ""great equalizer,"" then it should be just that: equal and equitable. Until then, there's no democracy in our democratic education. On a mezzo level: historically speaking, the education of the black and brown child has always depended on the philanthropy of others. And unfortunately, today it still does. If your son or daughter or niece or nephew or neighbor or little Timmy down the street goes to an affluent school, challenge your school committee to adopt an impoverished school or an impoverished classroom. Close the divide by engaging in communication and relationships that matter. When resources are shared, they're not divided; they're multiplied. And on a micro level: if you're a human being, donate. Time, money, resources, opportunities — whatever is in your heart. There are websites like DonorsChoose that recognize the disparity and actually want to do something about it. What is a carpenter with no tools? What is an actress with no stage? What is a scientist with no laboratory? What is a doctor with no equipment? I'll tell you: they're my kids. Shouldn't they be your kids, too? Thank you. (Applause)"	我想和你們談談我的孩子。我知道每個人都覺得自己的孩子是世上最了不起、最漂亮的小孩。但我的孩子真的是如此。 （笑聲） 我有 696 個孩子，他們會是你們所見，最聰明、有創造力、優秀而強大的孩子。 任何我有幸教導的學生都是我的孩子。然而，因為他們「真正的」父母並不富有，而且，容我澄清，因為他們多數是有色人種，他們往往看不到自己身上如我所見的強大潛力。因為我在他們身上看到的是我自己──或者說，很可能是我。 我的父母是兩位認真努力、大學畢業的非裔美國人。他們選擇了進入大眾服務：我的父親是一位牧師；我的母親是一位教育者。財富在我們家從來不是主要的追求。由於並不富有，我們住在沒那麼有錢的社區，而那裡的學校也沒那麼有錢，幸運的是，因為一項「自願反隔離教育計劃」，我被分到一個超棒的學區。這個計劃把內城貧民區黑色或棕色膚色小孩，載到市郊又白又有錢的小孩的學校。 從五歲起，我每天花一小時在巴士上到遙遠的地方，去接受更好的教育。那時候，我以為每個人的生活都像我一樣，我以為大家都去上學，班上只有自己使用棕色蠟筆，來著色他們的家庭畫像，而其他人使用桃色蠟筆。五歲的時候，我以為每個人都像我一樣。當漸漸長大，我開始注意到：為何我鄰居的朋友不需要早上五點起床，然後去離家一小時遠的學校？我學著小提琴，而我的鄰居甚至沒有音樂課？我的鄰居朋友學著我兩三年前的上課內容？ 當我年紀漸長，我開始有種內疚感，好像我正做著什麼不該做的事情；拿走了什麼不屬於我的東西；或是收下一份寄給別人的禮物。那些我有機會接觸和經歷的精彩事物，不像是我應該擁有的。我不該擁有圖書館，設備齊全的運動設施，或是安全的遊樂場地。我不該擁有劇場那裡有季節性的表演和音樂會──數位的、視覺的、表演藝術。我不該擁有資源完整的生物或化學實驗室，學校巴士到府接駁，新鮮的學校午餐。甚至是空調，這些是我的孩子所沒有的。 你知道，當我長大，即使我對所擁有過的機會充滿感激，在我的內心有個永遠存在的痛苦：「那其他人呢?」有成千上萬像我一樣的孩子，也理應得到這些。為什麼不是每個人都得到這些？為什麼好的教育只提供給有錢人？ 而我就好像一個倖存者般在自責。我所有的鄰居朋友都在經歷支離破碎的教育慘劇，我卻幸運坐上了巴士得到救贖。我就像一個教育「摩西」尖叫著,「容我的百姓去……上高品質的學校！」 （笑聲） 我親眼看到另一半數孩童正在接受怎樣的教育。我看到教育的應許之地，我卻根本不能合理化這差距。 我如今在我家的學區教書。我很清楚我當學生時，學校給過我什麼教具，現在作為老師，我卻沒有相同的教具提供給我的學生。有無數的夜晚，我沮喪哭泣、憤怒、和悲哀，因為我不能用我被教的方式去教我的孩子，因為我沒有權利擁有當初用來教我的資源和器具。我的孩子應該得到更好。我們空坐著、不停喊著：「成就落差，成就落差！」卻是死路一條。真的有這麼難去理解為什麼這些孩子表現良好，而那些孩子不？我的意思是，真的！我想我們都錯了。我想我們 ，正如威斯康辛大學教授拉德森所說，應該翻轉我們的範式和我們的語言並說出實話。這不叫成就落差；它是一個教育債。從未被投資的放棄式教育法，長期用於教育黑人和棕色的孩子。 美國歷史上鮮為人知的秘密，是美國只有一個機構是專門為有色人種創造的，就是美國的奴隸貿易──有些人會說監獄。但那是另一場 TED 演講的主題。 （笑聲） 這個國家的公立學校系統是以奴隸貿易和奴隸勞動力等商務活動來建造、購買和支付。而非裔美國人以前被奴役並被禁止上學，他們的勞役建立了這個機構，這個機構卻排除他們。從那以後，每一個法庭案件、教育政策、改革，都一直試圖改造，卻沒有停下來承認：我們從一開始就錯了。 這是過度簡化的美國教育史。好吧，容我解釋。黑人被禁止──你知道，整個奴隸制的東西。在慈善白人的幫助下，他們建立了自己的學校。分開的但是還算平等的。但是我們都知道，事情的確不可能如此，他們在任何方面都不相等。在 1954 年布朗訴堪薩斯州托皮卡市教育委員會案後，種族分類現在是非法的。但很少有人注意自那時起所有的法庭案件，反而把每個孩子的教育應許之地都破壞了，那不是這個案件原本的訴求。有人認為今天我們的學校更加隔離，甚至比我們嘗試之前更加隔離。 教我的孩子關於廢除種族隔離、小石城九人事件、民權運動，是我教室裡真正的尷尬時刻。當我不得不聽到一個孩子問，「如果學校在 1954 年就不再種族分離，怎麼會沒有白人孩子在這裡？」 （笑聲） 這些孩子不傻。他們知道發生了什麼，和什麼沒發生。他們知道，在學校教育方面，黑人根本不重要。他們從來沒有被重視。 多年來，我拼命地嘗試讓孩子們培養對閱讀的熱愛。我弄了一個還不錯的教室圖書館，從二手商店買的書，慈善店、閣樓搞來的──你知道的。但是每當我說那些可怕的話，「拿出一本書來讀」，你會認為我是在宣戰。這是折磨。有一天，我聽說有個網站稱為 DonorsChoose，教室教師可以創建他們班上需要的圖書願望清單，然後匿名捐助者去履行，我就冒險做了一個願望清單，裡面都是青少年的夢想圖書。超過 200 本全新的書一本又一本被送到我的班上。每天都有新的書進來，我的孩子們都很高興大喊：「這感覺像聖誕節！」 （笑聲） 然後他們會說，「薩老師，這些書從哪裡來？」 然後我會回答：「來自全國各地的陌生人希望你們擁有這些。」 然後他們會用可疑的語氣說：「但他們是全新的。」 （笑聲） 我會回答：「你們應該得到全新的書。」 有個經驗直擊要害，班上有一個女孩，當她翻開一本嶄新的平裝書，「薩老師，你知道嗎，我以為你買了這些書，因為你們這些老師總是在買東西給我們。但是想到一個我根本不認識的陌生人關心我這麼多，這真的很酷。」 知道陌生人會照顧你是我的孩子沒有享受過的特權。 自捐贈以來，孩子們總是簽出書借回家，然後還書時他們會大喊：「這一個很好！」 （笑聲） 現在當我說：「拿出一本書讀」，孩子們會衝到我的小圖書館拿書。他們不是不想讀，如果有資源，他們會很樂意閱讀。 從體制上講，我們的公立學校制度從來沒有給黑色和棕色的孩子福利。我們一直專注於最終的結果或測試結果，然後感到沮喪。我們遇到一場災難，我們感到奇怪，「情況怎麼會這麼壞？我們是怎麼來到這一步的？」真的是這樣嗎？如果你長期忽略一個孩子，你就不再有驚訝的權利，當事情轉向壞的一方的時候。 停止茫然，停止困惑，停止醉茫茫吧！不要再被成就落差或收入差距或監禁率給搞混了。或社會經濟差距這個當下流行的新術語。我們作為一個國家的問題，正是我們作為一個國家創造的問題。你受到的教育的品質，與你是否能進入大學，與你是否能找到工作，與你的未來都是直接相關的。 直到我們的世界裡每個孩子都能得到高品質的教育，無論他們住在哪裡，無論他們的皮膚的顏色，在巨觀層面都有我們可以做的事情。學校的資金不應該由周邊的房屋稅或一些奇怪的經濟公式決定，讓富有的孩子繼續受益於州政府援助，而窮孩子嘴邊的食物和資源都要被拿走。州長、參議員、市長、市議會成員──如果我們叫它國民義務教育，那麼它應該就是名符其實。否則，我們應該這麼叫：「貧困保險。」「國民義務教育：自 1954 年以來讓窮孩子一直窮。」 （笑聲） 如果我們作為一個國家，真的相信教育是最棒的均衡器，那麼它就應該是：平等和公平。不然在我們的民主教育之前沒有任何民主可言。 從中觀來看：歷史上，要教育黑色和棕色的孩子，必須一直依賴別人的慈善事業。不幸的是，今天它仍然是如此。如果你的兒子、或女兒、或侄女、或侄子、或鄰居、或在街上的小蒂瑪去了一所富裕的學校，挑戰你的學校委員會去認養一間爛學校，或一間貧窮的教室。參與有意義的交流與建立關係以拉近差距。當資源可以共享時，就不是分割；而是相乘。 在微觀層面上：如果你是一個人，捐獻吧！時間、金錢、資源、機會──無論你有什麼。有像 DonorsChoose 這樣的網站，讓你發現不平等，讓你想要去做一些事情。 如果一個木匠沒有工具？如果一個演員沒有舞台？如果一個科學家沒有實驗室？如果一個醫生沒有設備？我會說：他們是我的孩子。他們不也是你的孩子嗎？ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
