Talk	en	zh-tw
kare_anderson_be_an_opportunity_maker	"I grew up diagnosed as phobically shy, and, like at least 20 other people in a room of this size, I was a stutterer. Do you dare raise your hand? And it sticks with us. It really does stick with us, because when we are treated that way, we feel invisible sometimes, or talked around and at. And as I started to look at people, which is mostly all I did, I noticed that some people really wanted attention and recognition. Remember, I was young then. So what did they do? What we still do perhaps too often. We talk about ourselves. And yet there are other people I observed who had what I called a mutuality mindset. In each situation, they found a way to talk about us and create that ""us"" idea. So my idea to reimagine the world is to see it one where we all become greater opportunity-makers with and for others. There's no greater opportunity or call for action for us now than to become opportunity-makers who use best talents together more often for the greater good and accomplish things we couldn't have done on our own. And I want to talk to you about that, because even more than giving, even more than giving, is the capacity for us to do something smarter together for the greater good that lifts us both up and that can scale. That's why I'm sitting here. But I also want to point something else out: Each one of you is better than anybody else at something. That disproves that popular notion that if you're the smartest person in the room, you're in the wrong room. (Laughter) So let me tell you about a Hollywood party I went to a couple years back, and I met this up-and-coming actress, and we were soon talking about something that we both felt passionately about: public art. And she had the fervent belief that every new building in Los Angeles should have public art in it. She wanted a regulation for it, and she fervently started — who is here from Chicago? — she fervently started talking about these bean-shaped reflective sculptures in Millennium Park, and people would walk up to it and they'd smile in the reflection of it, and they'd pose and they'd vamp and they'd take selfies together, and they'd laugh. And as she was talking, a  thought came to my mind. I said, ""I know someone you ought to meet. He's getting out of San Quentin  in a couple of weeks"" — (Laughter) — ""and he shares your fervent desire that art should engage and enable people to connect."" He spent five years in solitary, and I met him because I gave a speech at San Quentin, and he's articulate and he's rather easy on  the eyes because he's buff. He had workout regime he did every day. (Laughter) I think she was following me at that point. I said, ""He'd be an unexpected ally."" And not just that. There's James. He's an architect and he's a professor, and he loves place-making, and place-making is when you have those mini-plazas and those urban walkways and where they're dotted with art, where people draw and  come up and talk sometimes. I think they'd make good allies. And indeed they were. They met together. They prepared. They spoke in front of the  Los Angeles City Council. And the council members not only passed the regulation, half of them came down and asked to pose with them afterwards. They were startling,  compelling and credible. You can't buy that. What I'm asking you to consider is what kind of opportunity- makers we might become, because more than wealth or fancy titles or a lot of contacts, it's our capacity to connect around each other's  better side and bring it out. And I'm not saying this is easy, and I'm sure many of you have made the wrong moves too about who you wanted to connect with, but what I want to suggest is, this is an opportunity. I started thinking about it way back when I was a  Wall Street Journal reporter and I was in Europe and I was supposed to cover trends and trends that transcended business or politics or lifestyle. So I had to have contacts in different worlds very different than mine, because otherwise you couldn't spot the trends. And third, I had to write the story in a way stepping into the reader's shoes, so they could see how these  trends could affect their lives. That's what opportunity-makers do. And here's a strange thing: Unlike an increasing number of Americans who are working and living  and playing with people who think exactly like them because we then become more rigid and extreme, opportunity-makers are actively seeking situations with people unlike them, and they're building relationships, and because they do that, they have trusted relationships where they can bring the right team in and recruit them to solve a  problem better and faster and seize more opportunities. They're not affronted by differences, they're fascinated by them, and that is a huge shift in mindset, and once you feel it, you  want it to happen a lot more. This world is calling out for us  to have a collective mindset, and I believe in doing that. It's especially important now. Why is it important now? Because things can be devised like drones and drugs and data collection, and they can be devised by more people and cheaper ways for beneficial purposes and then, as we know from the news every day, they can be used for dangerous ones. It calls on us, each of us, to a higher calling. But here's the icing on the cake: It's not just the first opportunity that you do with somebody else that's probably your greatest, as an institution or an individual. It's after you've had that experience and you trust each other. It's the unexpected things that you devise later on you never could have predicted. For example, Marty is the husband  of that actress I mentioned, and he watched them  when they were practicing, and he was soon talking to Wally, my friend the ex-con, about that exercise regime. And he thought, I have a set of racquetball courts. That guy could teach it. A lot of people who work there are members at my courts. They're frequent travelers. They could practice in their hotel room, no equipment provided. That's how Wally got hired. Not only that, years later he was also teaching racquetball. Years after that, he was teaching the racquetball teachers. What I'm suggesting is, when  you connect with people around a shared interest and action, you're accustomed to serendipitous things happening into the future, and I think that's what we're looking at. We open ourselves up to those opportunities, and in this room  are key players in technology, key players who are uniquely positioned to do this, to scale systems and projects together. So here's what I'm calling for you to do. Remember the three traits of opportunity-makers. Opportunity-makers keep honing their top strength and they become pattern seekers. They get involved in different  worlds than their worlds so they're trusted and they  can see those patterns, and they communicate to connect around sweet spots of shared interest. So what I'm asking you is, the world is hungry. I truly believe, in my firsthand experience, the world is hungry for us to unite together as opportunity-makers and to emulate those behaviors as so many of you already do — I know that firsthand — and to reimagine a world where we use our best talents together more often to accomplish greater things together than we could on our own. Just remember, as Dave Liniger once said, ""You can't succeed coming to the potluck with only a fork."" (Laughter) Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)"	我小時候被診斷出有害羞症，所以身在至少有二十幾個人的房間裡，像這樣大小的房間，我講話就會結巴。有人也是嗎？ 這情況甩不掉，會一直陪伴著我們，因為別人對待我們的方式有時會讓我們覺得自己是隱形人，還有他們說話的方式。但當我開始看著其他人時，以前我還蠻常這麼做，我發現有些人真的很想得到注意力和認可。記得，我那時還很年輕。那他們都做了什麼？也許我們也很常做一樣的事。我們會談談「我們」自己。但我發現還有一些人會有種所謂的心靈互動。在任何情境中，他們都會找出一種談「我們」的方式，創造「我們」的概念。 所以我重新想像的世界是一個我們都變成大好機會創造者的地方，和別人合作，也幫助別人。現在最好的機會和最需要我們付諸行動的就是成為機會創造者，讓我們更常一起發揮長才，為更重要的事努力，並實踐我們無法獨立完成的事。我想和大家談談這件事，因為比給予還重要的是，比給予還重要的是，讓我們能更聰明地工作、一起做更重要事情的能力，讓我們能一起向上提昇、更上一層樓的能力。那就是我坐在這裡的原因。但是我也要指出另一個重點，你們每個人都有比其他人還擅長的一件事。這說明一個常聽到的想法是錯的：如果你自認是這裡最聰明的人，那你就走錯地方了。（笑聲） 讓我告訴大家幾年前我參加的一場好萊塢派對，我碰到一位大有前途的女演員，我們很快就聊到彼此都很感興趣的話題：公共藝術。她深信洛杉磯的每棟新建築裡都應該要有公共藝術。她希望有這樣的法令，因此她開始熱烈──誰從芝加哥來？──她開始熱烈談起那些豆狀的鏡面雕塑，就是千禧公園裡的那些，大家會走近雕塑，對著上面的倒影微笑，開始扭腰擺臀，一起自拍、大笑。她說這些的時候，我心裡浮現一個想法。我說：「我有個朋友，你應該和他碰個面。他幾週後會從聖昆丁州立監獄出來。」（笑聲）「他和你有同樣的強烈期待，認為藝術應該幫助群眾連在一起。」他被單獨監禁了五年，我會碰到他是因為我曾去監獄演講，他能言善道，而且非常養眼，因為他全身肌肉。他每天都練身體。（笑聲）我想當時她了解我的意思。我說：「他是個讓人驚喜的夥伴。」不只如此，還有詹姆士，他是建築師、教授，熱愛塑造空間，塑造空間就是在小廣場和市區人行道上用藝術點綴空間，大家偶爾會去看或討論的地方。我想他們可以成為好夥伴，事實證明他們真的很合。他們碰面、一起準備，到洛杉磯市議會演講。議員不只通過了法令，甚至後來有一半還下來要求和他們合照。他們驚豔全場、很有說服力且值得信賴，這是無價的。 我邀請各位想想，我們可以成為什麼樣的機會創造者，因為比起財富、閃亮頭銜或認識很多人還重要的是，我們有能力連結彼此美好的一面，並大展身手。我沒有說這很簡單，而且我相信在座很多人也曾交到不適合的朋友，但是我想說這是一個機會。我開始回想很久以前我還在華爾街日報當記者，我當時在歐洲，想報導一些趨勢，超越商業、政治或生活方式的議題。我必須有一些朋友處在和我很不同的環境裡，因為不這樣的話，就無法找到最新趨勢。第三，我必須寫故事，用讀者的角度來寫，這樣他們才能了解這些趨勢會怎麼影響他們的生活。這就是機會創造者要做的事。 奇怪的是不像有種越來越常見的美國人，他們工作、生活和玩樂的對象，想法就和自己一樣，後來變得更死板和激進，機會創造者會主動尋找和異己者相處的場合，他們會建立關係，因為他們這麼做，他們有良好的信任關係，能將找到對的團隊加入，以更好更快地改善問題，並把握更多機會。他們沒有被差異冒犯，他們著迷差異，那是很大的心態轉變，只要你感受到，就會希望更常發生。這個世界呼籲我們擁有集體意識，我相信那是好的，現在尤其重要。為什麼現在特別重要呢？因為像是無人機、藥物和資料收集這些事能被設計，能讓更多人設計，用更便宜的方式，並帶來助益，但就像我們每天從新聞看到的一樣，這些東西也可能造成危險。我們每一個人都被召喚去做更高層次的天職。 但很棒的一點是：你和其他人合作不只是第一個機會，可能還會是你最棒的機會，不論你們是團體還是個人。你試過那樣的經驗後，就會互相信任。這種意想不到的事是你後來才會想到，是你料不到的事。例如，我剛提那位女演員的丈夫馬帝，他在旁邊看他們練習，不久他就和吳立聊起來，就是我剛出獄的朋友，他們聊起運動健身的方式。他當時想我有數間壁球場，他可以來當教練。那裡很多員工是我球場的會員。他們常到處飛來飛去。他們可以在自己的旅館裡練習，不需要裝任何設備。吳立就這樣被錄用了。而且幾年後，他也開始教壁球。又過了幾年之後，他也開始訓練其他壁球教練了。我想說的是，當你接觸有同樣興趣和行為的人，你就會習慣未來出現許多驚喜，我想那就是我們在找的東西。我們讓自己開放，接觸這些機會，這裡有很多厲害的科技業關鍵人物，他們有得天獨厚的優勢能一起衡量機制和計畫。 以下是我呼籲大家做的三件事。記住機會創造者的三種特質。機會創造者不斷加強他們的實力，成為能夠觀微知著的人。他們游走於不同的世界，不只在自己的領域，所以大家信任他們，他們能洞燭機先。還有，他們會溝通，並找到共同興趣的交集。 我想告訴各位的是，世界很飢餓。依據我的第一手的經驗，我真的相信世界很飢餓，渴望我們一起成為機會創造者，並效仿那些行為，就像在座許多人所做的──我知道，因為我有第一手經驗──重新想像一個世界，我們都能運用各自的長才，時常一起成就大事，比我們單打獨鬥能成就更大的事。記住，就像戴夫．理尼格所說：「一人帶一道菜來聚餐，想成功就別只帶支叉子。」（笑聲） 非常謝謝各位。謝謝。（掌聲）
