Talk	en	zh-tw
karen_thompson_walker_what_fear_can_teach_us	"One day in 1819, 3,000 miles off the coast of Chile, in one of the most remote regions of the Pacific Ocean, 20 American sailors watched their ship flood with seawater. They'd been struck by a sperm whale, which had ripped a catastrophic hole in the ship's hull. As their ship began to sink beneath the swells, the men huddled together in three small whaleboats. These men were 10,000 miles from home, more than 1,000 miles from the nearest scrap of land. In their small boats, they carried only rudimentary navigational equipment and limited supplies of food and water. These were the men of the whaleship Essex, whose story would later inspire parts of ""Moby Dick."" Even in today's world, their situation would be really dire, but think about how much worse it would have been then. No one on land had any idea that anything had gone wrong. No search party was coming to look for these men. So most of us have never experienced a situation as frightening as the one in which these sailors found themselves, but we all know what it's like to be afraid. We know how fear feels, but I'm not sure we spend enough time thinking about what our fears mean. As we grow up, we're often encouraged to think of fear as a weakness, just another childish thing to discard like baby teeth or roller skates. And I think it's no accident that we think this way. Neuroscientists have actually shown that human beings are hard-wired to be optimists. So maybe that's why we think of fear, sometimes, as a danger in and of itself. ""Don't worry,"" we like to say to one another. ""Don't panic."" In English, fear is something we conquer. It's something we fight. It's something we overcome. But what if we looked at fear in a fresh way? What if we thought of fear as an amazing act of the imagination, something that can be as profound and insightful as storytelling itself? It's easiest to see this link between fear and the imagination in young children, whose fears are often extraordinarily vivid. When I was a child, I lived in California, which is, you know, mostly a very nice place to live, but for me as a child, California could also be a little scary. I remember how frightening it was to see the chandelier that hung above our dining table swing back and forth during every minor earthquake, and I sometimes couldn't sleep at night, terrified that the Big One might strike while we were sleeping. And what we say about kids who have fears like that is that they have a vivid imagination. But at a certain point, most of us learn to leave these kinds of visions behind and grow up. We learn that there are no monsters hiding under the bed, and not every earthquake brings buildings down. But maybe it's no coincidence that some of our most creative minds fail to leave these kinds of fears behind as adults. The same incredible imaginations that produced ""The Origin of Species,"" ""Jane Eyre"" and ""The Remembrance of Things Past,"" also generated intense worries that haunted the adult lives of Charles Darwin, Charlotte BrontĂŤ and Marcel Proust. So the question is, what can the rest of us learn about fear from visionaries and young children? Well let's return to the year 1819 for a moment, to the situation facing the crew of the whaleship Essex. Let's take a look at the fears that their imaginations were generating as they drifted in the middle of the Pacific. Twenty-four hours had now passed since the capsizing of the ship. The time had come for the men to make a plan, but they had very few options. In his fascinating account of the disaster, Nathaniel Philbrick wrote that these men were just about as far from land as it was possible to be anywhere on Earth. The men knew that the nearest islands they could reach were the Marquesas Islands, 1,200 miles away. But they'd heard some frightening rumors. They'd been told that these islands, and several others nearby, were populated by cannibals. So the men pictured coming ashore only to be murdered and eaten for dinner. Another possible destination was Hawaii, but given the season, the captain was afraid they'd be struck by severe storms. Now the last option was the longest, and the most difficult: to sail 1,500 miles due south in hopes of reaching a certain band of winds that could eventually push them toward the coast of South America. But they knew that the sheer length of this journey would stretch their supplies of food and water. To be eaten by cannibals, to be battered by storms, to starve to death before reaching land. These were the fears that danced in the imaginations of these poor men, and as it turned out, the fear they chose to listen to would govern whether they lived or died. Now we might just as easily call these fears by a different name. What if instead of calling them fears, we called them stories? Because that's really what fear is, if you think about it. It's a kind of unintentional storytelling that we are all born knowing how to do. And fears and storytelling have the same components. They have the same architecture. Like all stories, fears have characters. In our fears, the characters are us. Fears also have plots. They have beginnings and middles and ends. You board the plane. The plane takes off. The engine fails. Our fears also tend to contain imagery that can be every bit as vivid as what you might find in the pages of a novel. Picture a cannibal, human teeth sinking into human skin, human flesh roasting over a fire. Fears also have suspense. If I've done my job as a storyteller today, you should be wondering what happened to the men of the whaleship Essex. Our fears provoke in us a very similar form of suspense. Just like all great stories, our fears focus our attention on a question that is as important in life as it is in literature: What will happen next? In other words, our fears make us think about the future. And humans, by the way, are the only creatures capable of thinking about the future in this way, of projecting ourselves forward in time, and this mental time travel is just one more thing that fears have in common with storytelling. As a writer, I can tell you that a big part of writing fiction is learning to predict how one event in a story will affect all the other events, and fear works in that same way. In fear, just like in fiction, one thing always leads to another. When I was writing my first novel, ""The Age Of Miracles,"" I spent months trying to figure out what would happen if the rotation of the Earth suddenly began to slow down. What would happen to our days? What would happen to our crops? What would happen to our minds? And then it was only later that I realized how very similar these questions were to the ones I used to ask myself as a child frightened in the night. If an earthquake strikes tonight, I used to worry, what will happen to our house? What will happen to my family? And the answer to those questions always took the form of a story. So if we think of our fears as more than just fears but as stories, we should think of ourselves as the authors of those stories. But just as importantly, we need to think of ourselves as the readers of our fears, and how we choose to read our fears can have a profound effect on our lives. Now, some of us naturally read our fears more closely than others. I read about a study recently of successful entrepreneurs, and the author found that these people shared a habit that he called ""productive paranoia,"" which meant that these people, instead of dismissing their fears, these people read them closely, they studied them, and then they translated that fear into preparation and action. So that way, if their worst fears came true, their businesses were ready. And sometimes, of course, our worst fears do come true. That's one of the things that is so extraordinary about fear. Once in a while, our fears can predict the future. But we can't possibly prepare for all of the fears that our imaginations concoct. So how can we tell the difference between the fears worth listening to and all the others? I think the end of the story of the whaleship Essex offers an illuminating, if tragic, example. After much deliberation, the men finally made a decision. Terrified of cannibals, they decided to forgo the closest islands and instead embarked on the longer and much more difficult route to South America. After more than two months at sea, the men ran out of food as they knew they might, and they were still quite far from land. When the last of the survivors were finally picked up by two passing ships, less than half of the men were left alive, and some of them had resorted to their own form of cannibalism. Herman Melville, who used this story as research for ""Moby Dick,"" wrote years later, and from dry land, quote, ""All the sufferings of these miserable men of the Essex might in all human probability have been avoided had they, immediately after leaving the wreck, steered straight for Tahiti. But,"" as Melville put it, ""they dreaded cannibals."" So the question is, why did these men dread cannibals so much more than the extreme likelihood of starvation? Why were they swayed by one story so much more than the other? Looked at from this angle, theirs becomes a story about reading. The novelist Vladimir Nabokov said that the best reader has a combination of two very different temperaments, the artistic and the scientific. A good reader has an artist's passion, a willingness to get caught up in the story, but just as importantly, the readers also needs the coolness of judgment of a scientist, which acts to temper and complicate the reader's intuitive reactions to the story. As we've seen, the men of the Essex had no trouble with the artistic part. They dreamed up a variety of horrifying scenarios. The problem was that they listened to the wrong story. Of all the narratives their fears wrote, they responded only to the most lurid, the most vivid, the one that was easiest for their imaginations to picture: cannibals. But perhaps if they'd been able to read their fears more like a scientist, with more coolness of judgment, they would have listened instead to the less violent but the more likely tale, the story of starvation, and headed for Tahiti, just as Melville's sad commentary suggests. And maybe if we all tried to read our fears, we too would be less often swayed by the most salacious among them. Maybe then we'd spend less time worrying about serial killers and plane crashes, and more time concerned with the subtler and slower disasters we face: the silent buildup of plaque in our arteries, the gradual changes in our climate. Just as the most nuanced stories in literature are often the richest, so too might our subtlest fears be the truest. Read in the right way, our fears are an amazing gift of the imagination, a kind of everyday clairvoyance, a way of glimpsing what might be the future when there's still time to influence how that future will play out. Properly read, our fears can offer us something as precious as our favorite works of literature: a little wisdom, a bit of insight and a version of that most elusive thing — the truth. Thank you. (Applause)"	在西元1819年的某一天,距離智利的海岸線3,000英哩之遙，在一個太平洋上最偏遠的角落，有20個美國水手看著海水湧入他們的船。他們的船被一條抹香鯨撞上了，船身破了一個足以造成災難的大洞。當他們的船開始下沉的時候，這些水手擠上了三條小船。他們離家10,000英哩遠，最接近的陸地也在超過1,000英哩之外。在他們的小船上，也僅僅只有簡陋的導航設備和有限的食物和水。這些人是捕鯨船艾塞克斯號上的船員，他們的故事後來成為了名著《白鯨記》(Moby Dick) 的一部分。 即使在現代，他們遭遇的情況也是非常可怕的，更不用說在他們的年代這有多麼糟糕。在陸地上的人都不知道這次事故。也不會有搜救團隊來尋找這些人。我們大多數人從未經歷過像這些船員所遭遇般如此令人害怕的情況，但我們都知道害怕是怎麼一回事。我們知道恐懼的感覺是什麼樣的，但我不確定我們有花足夠的時間思考到底我們的恐懼有什麼樣的意義。 在我們長大的過程中，我們常被鼓勵把恐懼當作是弱點，只是一種該被棄掉的幼稚東西，就像乳牙或是溜冰鞋一般。而我認為我們會這樣來看待恐懼，並非是偶發的事件。神經學家的研究實際上顯示了，人類天生就是會變成樂觀主義者。也許這就是為什麼我們有時候會把恐懼，當成是可能隱含著甚至本身就是危險的。我們常會對別人說「別擔心」，「不要慌」。在英語中，恐懼是我們征服的對象。恐懼是我們要對抗的，是我們要克服的。但如果我們用新的方式來看待恐懼呢？如果我們把恐據當做是人類想像力的令人驚異的演出呢？如果恐懼也可以是深刻而有見地的就如同說故事一般？ 恐懼與想像力之間的連結，最容易看到的例子就是在年幼的兒童身上，他們的恐懼往往格外生動。我小的時候住在加州如你所知的，加州在大部分的情況下是很棒的居住地，但對於我這個小孩來說，加州是有點可怕的。我還記得我有多害怕，當我看到家裡的吊燈在餐桌上方來回擺盪，這樣的事情在每一次輕微的地震都會發生，而我有時候晚上甚至會害怕到睡不著，擔心當我們都睡覺的時候，可能會有大地震。我們會說像有這樣恐懼的孩子們是具有非常豐富的想像力的。但在成長的某些時間點上，我們大多數人都會學著放下這些想像而長大。我們知道，床底下並不會有怪物躲著也不是每個地震都會震垮建築物。但或許這是不是巧合，一些最有創意的頭腦的人們並無法在長大成人後擺脫這些恐懼。這樣的超凡想像力創造出《物種起源》《簡 · 愛》和《追憶似水年華》，同樣也造成了終生的強烈憂慮，影響著查理斯 · 達爾文、 夏綠蒂 · 博朗特，和馬塞爾 · 普魯斯特。所以，問題來了，我們可以從別人的恐懼學習到什麼？特別是從這些遠見者和年輕的孩子？ 讓我們再回到前面說的1819年的時候，那些埃塞克斯捕鯨船上的船員所面對的情況。讓我們看一看因他們的想像力所產生的恐懼，當他們漂流在太平洋上的時候。捕鯨船翻覆已經過了二十四小時了。這些人必須作出一些計畫了但是他們的選項很少。在他令人著迷的災難記述中納旦尼爾 · 菲爾布裡克寫道：這些人大概可以說是在地球上的一個離任何陸地都最遠的地方。這些人知道離他們最近的島嶼是馬克薩斯群島，有 1200 英里遠。但他們聽說過一些令人恐懼的謠言。他們聽別人說過，這些島嶼，和其他幾個附近的島嶼，都住著食人族。所以這些人腦海中的想像，如果上了岸，也是會被殺掉被當成晚餐。另一個可能的目標是夏威夷，但在當時的季節，船長擔心去那個方向會遭遇到嚴重的風暴。現在最後一個選項是最遠的、 也是最困難的：就是向南航行 1500 英里，然後希望能進入到一個季風帶，然後順著風能夠航行到南美洲的海岸。但是，他們也知道這樣的航行的距離對他們的食物和水的供應是非常勉強的。被食人族吃掉，或是被風暴襲擊，或是在到達陸地前餓死。這些都是這些可憐的船員們的想像力所創造出來的各種恐懼而他們選擇聽從的恐懼，將會決定他們是能活下來，或者死亡。 其實我們可以很容易的用一個不同的名稱來稱呼這些恐懼。比方說，若我們不把它們叫做恐懼，而是把它們叫做故事呢？因為這就是恐懼的真實面貌，如果你想想看就知道。恐懼是一種無意識的說故事的方式我們從出生就都知道要如何做。恐懼和說故事具有相同的元素。他們有相同的結構。如同所有的故事，恐懼也有角色。在我們的恐懼裡，角色就是我們自己。恐懼也有腳本。也一樣有起承轉合。你登上飛機。飛機起飛。引擎失靈。我們的恐懼也通常會包含圖像，就如同小說裡那像生動的描繪。想像一下食人族，人類的牙齒咬進人類的皮膚，在火上烤人肉。恐懼也會有懸疑感。如果今天我已經把我身為一個故事講述者的工作做完你應該就已經知道發生了什麼事在那些艾塞克斯捕鯨船上的船員們身上。我們的恐懼在我們心中挑起了一種非常類似的懸疑感。就如同每個偉大的故事，我們的恐懼讓我們注意力集中在一個生活中或是文學作品中的重要的問題上：「後來怎麼樣了呢？」換句話說，我們的恐懼讓我們思考未來。順帶一提，人類是動物中唯一能夠用這種方式來思考未來的，把我們自己向前投射到未來的時間，而這樣的心理上的時間旅行，也是另一個恐懼與說故事共通的事情。 作為一個作家，我可以告訴你，寫小說的很大一部分就是學習去預測故事中的一個事件，會如何影響所有的其他事件而恐懼運作的方式也是完全相同的。在恐懼之中，就像在小說中，一件事總是導致另一件事。當我在寫我的第一部小說，《奇蹟年代》的時候我花了幾個月試圖弄清楚可能會發生什麼事，如果地球的旋轉突然開始慢下來。我們的生活會發生什麼變化？我們的農作物又會怎麼樣？我們的心智會怎麼樣變化？後來我才發現到，這些問題真的很像那些我以前拿來問我自己的在小時候的嚇壞了的夜裡問的問題。就是如果今晚有地震襲擊，我常常會擔心，我們的房子會發生什麼事？我的家人會發生什麼事？而這些問題的答案總是以一個故事的形式來呈現。所以，如果我們把我們的恐懼不只是當作恐懼，而是當作故事，而我們應該把自己當作是這些故事的作者。但同樣重要的是，我們需要也把自己當作是我們的恐懼的讀者，而我們選擇如何去閱讀我們的恐懼，將會對我們的生活有深遠的影響。 現在，我們中的一些人，天生就能比別人更深入的閱讀恐懼。我最近讀到一個研究，是關於成功的創業家的，作者發現了這些人有一種共同的習慣所謂的「生產性的偏執狂」，意思是這些人，當他們面對恐懼時，並不是去忽略，而是去深入的研讀恐懼，他們會去研究恐懼，然後他們把恐懼轉換成準備和行動。以這樣的方式，就算他們擔心的最糟情況成真了，他們的生意也已經做好了準備。 當然有時候，我們最擔心的事情也是會發生的。這就是恐懼本身非常特別的事情之一。偶爾，我們的恐懼可以預測未來。但我們並不可能針對我們的想像力所能編造的所有恐懼都事先做好準備。那我們該如何分辨出值得聆聽的恐懼和其他不值得聆聽的呢？我認為艾塞克斯號捕鯨船的故事的結局提供了一個具啟發性的例子，雖然算是個悲劇結局。在一番討論之後，這些船員們做出了決定。因為害怕食人族，他們決定放棄，不朝向最接近的群島而選擇了需要更長時間也更困難的路途，到南美洲。然後在海上過了兩個多月，這些船員們的食物吃完了，如同他們原先預期的，而他們仍然離陸地相當遠。當最後的那些倖存者被救起到兩艘路過的船舶時，只有少於一半的船員們還活著，而其中的一些船員也選擇了吃人肉的做法。赫爾曼 · 梅爾維爾，在多年之後寫《白鯨記》前,也研究了這個故事，身處在陸地上，他引述說：「埃塞克斯號的這些可憐的船員們所遭受的苦難或許是可以完全地被避免的假使他們能夠，在船難發生以後，就立刻直向大溪地航行。」但是，正如梅爾維爾所說的，「他們害怕食人族。」所以問題是，為什麼這些船員對於食人族如此的懼怕，甚至還超過了極可能發生的食物短缺呢？他們為什麼被一個故事動搖的程度遠勝於另一個故事呢？從這個角度看他們的故事變成了一個關於閱讀的故事。小說家弗拉基米爾 · 納博科夫說，最佳的讀者結合了兩種非常不同的氣質，藝術的和科學的。一位好讀者有著藝術家的激情，願意沉浸在故事中，但也同樣重要的是，讀者還需要如同科學家一般的冷靜判斷，這會影響並複雜化讀者對故事的直覺反應。如同我們已經看到的，埃塞克斯號的船員在藝術的部分沒有問題。他們想像出了各種各樣的可怕場景。他們的問題在於他們選擇聽從了錯誤的故事。在他們的恐懼所述說的各種情境中，他們只選擇了最駭人，最生動，他們的想像力最容易發揮的那個：食人族的情境。但如果他們已經知道如何閱讀他們的恐懼用更像是一位科學家，用更冷靜的判斷，他們也許會選擇那個較少暴力但更有可能發生的故事，就是食物短缺，而選擇航向大溪地，正如梅爾維爾悲傷的評論所建議那般。 如果我們都嘗試閱讀我們的恐懼，或許我們也將能夠比較不被想像的故事中最恐怖的吸引。也許如此我們就能少花些時間擔心那些連續殺人犯和飛機空難，而是花更多的時間去關注細微而且緩慢的迫近我們的災難：比方說，在我們的動脈裡堆積的致命問題還有正在逐漸改變的氣候。正如同在文學中, 最微小的故事往往是最豐富的，而我們所面臨的最微小恐懼，也可能就是最真實的。以正確的方式看待, 我們的恐懼是一項神奇的天賦透過想像，就好像每一天都能具有千里眼的能力，能夠窺見未來將發生何事而且能夠在還有時間的時候就去改變未來。正確地去讀，我們的恐懼能夠給我們非常珍貴的，如同人類最好的文學作品一般的：一點點智慧，一點點的洞察力和那個最難以捉摸的東西的一面— —就是真相。謝謝。（掌聲）
