Talk	en	zh-tw
kate_stafford_how_human_noise_affects_ocean_habitats	"In 1956, a documentary by Jacques Cousteau won both the Palme d'Or and an Oscar award. This film was called, ""Le Monde Du Silence,"" or, ""The Silent World."" The premise of the title was that the underwater world was a quiet world. We now know, 60 years later, that the underwater world is anything but silent. Although the sounds are inaudible above water depending on where you are and the time of year, the underwater soundscape can be as noisy as any jungle or rainforest. Invertebrates like snapping shrimp, fish and marine mammals all use sound. They use sound to study their habitat, to keep in communication with each other, to navigate, to detect predators and prey. They also use sound by listening to know something about their environment. Take, for an example, the Arctic. It's considered a vast, inhospitable place, sometimes described as a desert, because it is so cold and so remote and ice-covered for much of the year. And despite this, there is no place on Earth that I would rather be than the Arctic, especially as days lengthen and spring comes. To me, the Arctic really embodies this disconnect between what we see on the surface and what's going on underwater. You can look out across the ice — all white and blue and cold — and see nothing. But if you could hear underwater, the sounds you would hear would at first amaze and then delight you. And while your eyes are seeing nothing for kilometers but ice, your ears are telling you that out there are bowhead and beluga whales, walrus and bearded seals. The ice, too, makes sounds. It screeches and cracks and pops and groans, as it collides and rubs when temperature or currents or winds change. And under 100 percent sea ice in the dead of winter, bowhead whales are singing. And you would never expect that, because we humans, we tend to be very visual animals. For most of us, but not all, our sense of sight is how we navigate our world. For marine mammals that live underwater, where chemical cues and light transmit poorly, sound is the sense by which they see. And sound transmits very well underwater, much better than it does in air, so signals can be heard over great distances. In the Arctic, this is especially important, because not only do Arctic marine mammals have to hear each other, but they also have to listen for cues in the environment that might indicate heavy ice ahead or open water. Remember, although they spend most of their lives underwater, they are mammals, and so they have to surface to breathe. So they might listen for thin ice or no ice, or listen for echoes off nearby ice. Arctic marine mammals live in a rich and varied underwater soundscape. In the spring, it can be a cacophony of sound. (Marine mammal sounds) But when the ice is frozen solid, and there are no big temperature shifts or current changes, the underwater Arctic has some of the lowest ambient noise levels of the world's oceans. But this is changing. This is primarily due to a decrease in seasonal sea ice, which is a direct result of human greenhouse gas emissions. We are, in effect, with climate change, conducting a completely uncontrolled experiment with our planet. Over the past 30 years, areas of the Arctic have seen decreases in seasonal sea ice from anywhere from six weeks to four months. This decrease in sea ice is sometimes referred to as an increase in the open water season. That is the time of year when the Arctic is navigable to vessels. And not only is the extent of ice changing, but the age and the width of ice is, too. Now, you may well have heard that a decrease in seasonal sea ice is causing a loss of habitat for animals that rely on sea ice, such as ice seals, or walrus, or polar bears. Decreasing sea ice is also causing increased erosion along coastal villages, and changing prey availability for marine birds and mammals. Climate change and decreases in sea ice are also altering the underwater soundscape of the Arctic. What do I mean by soundscape? Those of us who eavesdrop on the oceans for a living use instruments called hydrophones, which are underwater microphones, and we record ambient noise — the noise all around us. And the soundscape describes the different contributors to this noise field. What we are hearing on our hydrophones are the very real sounds of climate change. We are hearing these changes from three fronts: from the air, from the water and from land. First: air. Wind on water creates waves. These waves make bubbles; the bubbles break, and when they do, they make noise. And this noise is like a hiss or a static in the background. In the Arctic, when it's ice-covered, most of the noise from wind doesn't make it into the water column, because the ice acts as a buffer between the atmosphere and the water. This is one of the reasons that the Arctic can have very low ambient noise levels. But with decreases in seasonal sea ice, not only is the Arctic now open to this wave noise, but the number of storms and the intensity of storms in the Arctic has been increasing. All of this is raising noise levels in a previously quiet ocean. Second: water. With less seasonal sea ice, subarctic species are moving north, and taking advantage of the new habitat that is created by more open water. Now, Arctic whales, like this bowhead, they have no dorsal fin, because they have evolved to live and swim in ice-covered waters, and having something sticking off of your back is not very conducive to migrating through ice, and may, in fact, be excluding animals from the ice. But now, everywhere we've listened, we're hearing the sounds of fin whales and humpback whales and killer whales, further and further north, and later and later in the season. We are hearing, in essence, an invasion of the Arctic by subarctic species. And we don't know what this means. Will there be competition for food between Arctic and subarctic animals? Might these subarctic species introduce diseases or parasites into the Arctic? And what are the new sounds that they are producing doing to the soundscape underwater? And third: land. And by land ... I mean people. More open water means increased human use of the Arctic. Just this past summer, a massive cruise ship made its way through the Northwest Passage — the once-mythical route between Europe and the Pacific. Decreases in sea ice have allowed humans to occupy the Arctic more often. It has allowed increases in oil and gas exploration and extraction, the potential for commercial shipping, as well as increased tourism. And we now know that ship noise increases levels of stress hormones in whales and can disrupt feeding behavior. Air guns, which produce loud, low-frequency ""whoomps"" every 10 to 20 seconds, changed the swimming and vocal behavior of whales. And all of these sound sources are decreasing the acoustic space over which Arctic marine mammals can communicate. Now, Arctic marine mammals are used to very high levels of noise at certain times of the year. But this is primarily from other animals or from sea ice, and these are the sounds with which they've evolved, and these are sounds that are vital to their very survival. These new sounds are loud and they're alien. They might impact the environment in ways that we think we understand, but also in ways that we don't. Remember, sound is the most important sense for these animals. And not only is the physical habitat of the Arctic changing rapidly, but the acoustic habitat is, too. It's as if we've plucked these animals up from the quiet countryside and dropped them into a big city in the middle of rush hour. And they can't escape it. So what can we do now? We can't decrease wind speeds or keep subarctic animals from migrating north, but we can work on local solutions to reducing human-caused underwater noise. One of these solutions is to slow down ships that traverse the Arctic, because a slower ship is a quieter ship. We can restrict access in seasons and regions that are important for mating or feeding or migrating. We can get smarter about quieting ships and find better ways to explore the ocean bottom. And the good news is, there are people working on this right now. But ultimately, we humans have to do the hard work of reversing or at the very least decelerating human-caused atmospheric changes. So, let's return to this idea of a silent world underwater. It's entirely possible that many of the whales swimming in the Arctic today, especially long-lived species like the bowhead whale that the Inuits say can live two human lives — it's possible that these whales were alive in 1956, when Jacques Cousteau made his film. And in retrospect, considering all the noise we are creating in the oceans today, perhaps it really was ""The Silent World."" Thank you. (Applause)"	雅克·庫斯托 1956 年的紀錄片同時榮獲金棕櫚獎和奧斯卡獎。電影片名為：「寂靜的世界」或「沉默的世界」。名稱的前提是：水下是個寂靜的世界。六十年後的今天我們明白水下世界一點也不寂靜。 雖然在水面上聽不到聲音，但取決於在什麼時間點以及你身處何處，水底下可能像任何叢林或熱帶雨林般吵雜。諸如蝦之類的無脊椎動物、魚類，以及海洋哺乳動物都使用聲音。牠們用聲音來研究棲地、彼此溝通、導航，以及偵測天敵和獵物。牠們也透過聲音來了解周遭的環境。 以北極為例，被認為廣大而不宜人居，甚至有時被形容是荒漠，因它寒冷而遙遠，在大部分的月份裡被冰所覆蓋著。儘管如此，我寧願身在北極，勝過地球的任何其他地點，尤其當春日白晝漸長時。 我認為北極真正體現了迥異的水上和水下兩個世界。放眼望去，藍白冷冷的冰面上什麼也看不見。但如果你聽得到水下的聲音，你先會驚奇，然後會雀躍。極目所見，延展數公里的冰面上似無一物，但耳朵卻聽到了弓頭鯨、白鯨、海象和髯海豹存在的聲音。冰也會出聲；當冰塊互撞、摩擦，或當溫度、洋流、風向變化時，會尖叫、崩裂、彈跳和呻吟。在冬天完全冰封的海面下，弓頭鯨在唱著歌。 超乎我們的想像，因為人類往往非常依賴視覺。雖非全部，但我們大多數人靠著視力在世上行進。對生活在水下的海洋哺乳動物而言，那裡的化學訊號傳導差，光線又不好，因此牠們倚賴聲音來感知。而水傳導聲音極佳，比空氣好太多了，所以距離雖遠仍聽得到信號。 這在北極尤其重要，因為北極的海洋哺乳動物不僅必須彼此互聽，還要聽取環境的線索，像是前方到底有著巨冰還是一片開放的水域。記住，雖大部分時間在水下生活，牠們仍是哺乳類動物，必須浮到水面上呼吸；所以牠們得靠傾聽尋找薄冰、無冰的地方，或偵聽附近冰塊的迴聲。 北極海洋哺乳動物生活在富含各種水下音景的地方。在春天可能是混音。 （海洋哺乳動物的聲音） 而當冰封時，海面下的溫度和洋流無甚變化，北極海面下的環境噪音是全球所有的海洋當中最低的。但是情況正改變著，主因是季節性的海冰量減少了，直接肇因於人類的溫室氣體排放。實際上，我們和氣候變遷共同引致這完全失控的星球實驗。 在過去三十年裡，北極地區的季節性海冰減少了六周至四個月之多。海冰的減少也是開放水域季的拉長，北極可行船的時段變長了。不僅冰覆區縮小，冰齡、冰厚和冰寬也變了。 你可能已聽過季節性的海冰減少使得依賴海冰的動物喪失棲地，例如浮冰海豹、海象或北極熊。海冰的減少也造成沿海村莊的侵蝕增加，海鳥和哺乳動物的獵物也變少了。 氣候變遷和海冰減少也改變了北極水下音景的風貌。我所謂的「音景」指的是什麼？我們這些靠聆聽海洋為生的人用水中聽音器──一種水底麥克風 ──來聆聽記錄環境噪音。而音景描述音域裡的各個出聲者。我們透過水中聽音器聽到的聲音真實反映了氣候的變遷。我們聽到的變化來自三方：空中、水中和地上。 第一：空氣。風吹過水面上產生波浪，波浪造成氣泡；氣泡會破裂，當氣泡破裂時會發出聲音。而這聲音就像背景的嘶嘶聲。在冰封的北極，大部分的風聲傳不到水下，因為冰是大氣和水之間的緩衝。這是北極海面下低噪音的原因之一。但隨著季節性海冰的減少，不僅北極的海面下聽得到波浪的噪音，而且北極的風暴次數和強度也不斷增加。這些都使原先安靜的海洋變得吵雜。 第二：水。隨著季節性海冰的減少，亞北極的物種向北移，利用擴大開放水域所造成的新棲地。住在北極的鯨魚例如頭鯨並沒有背鰭，因牠們已進化適應了在冰覆的水域裡游泳及生活，假如背上突出個東西，會不利於在冰間移動，且實際上可能根本無法在冰區生活。但我們現今在各地聽到長鬚鯨、座頭鯨和虎鯨的聲音，出現在越來越北的地方和越來越晚的季節裡，本質上說，我們聽到亞北極物種侵入了北極。我們不知道這代表的意涵。亞北極物種和北極物種會爭奪食物嗎？亞北極物種會把疾病和寄生蟲帶入北極嗎？牠們帶來的新聲音會對水下的音景產生什麼影響呢？ 第三：土地。我說的土地指的是人。更大的開放水域意味著更多人類利用北極。就在剛過去的夏天，一艘巨型郵輪通過西北航道──這航道曾是歐洲和太平洋之間的神話路線。海冰的減少使得人類更頻繁地佔用北極，增加石油和天然氣的勘探和開採，使商業航運可通行，並增加了旅遊活動。如今我們知道船的噪音會提高鯨魚體中的壓力激素量，並可能擾亂牠們進食的行為。每十到二十秒產生大聲而低頻轟聲的氣槍，改變了鯨魚游泳和出聲的行為。這些聲源全都減少了北極海洋哺乳動物可用來溝通的音域頻寬。 北極海洋哺乳動物在一年中的某段時間習慣於非常高的噪音，所習以為常的主要是其他動物或海冰的聲音，這些過去與牠們一起演化的聲音對牠們的生存至關重要。而新加入既吵又陌生的聲音，可能會以我們已知或未知的方式，影響環境及牠們的生存。請記住，聲音是這些動物最重要的感知方式。不僅北極棲地的形貌正迅速改變，棲地的聲音也變了。就好像我們從安靜的鄉村玃取這些動物，然後把牠們放入交通尖峰時刻的大城市裡，牠們落得無處可逃。 那麼現在我們該怎麼做呢？我們無法減慢風速，也無法防止亞北極動物往北移，但我們可以採用局部解決方案來減少人為製造水下噪音。解決方案之一是降低穿越北極的船速，因為慢速的船比較安靜。我們可以在重要的交配、哺育或遷徙季節和地區限制人類的進出。我們可以更明智，用較安靜的船隻，以更好的方法去探索海底。好消息是有人正在執行這些解決方案。但最終，我們人類必須努力反轉，或者至少減緩人為造成的氣候變遷。 讓我們回到寂靜的水下世界這個想法。極有可能許多今天在北極游泳的鯨魚，尤其是像弓頭鯨那樣長壽的物種──因紐特人說牠們的壽命是人類的雙倍，極有可能，在 1956 年雅克·庫斯托拍攝紀錄片的時候這些鯨魚已經活著了。回想起來，再看看現今所有我們在海洋中製造的噪音，也許當時真的是個「沉默的世界」。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
