Talk	en	zh-tw
kathy_hull_stories_from_a_home_for_terminally_ill_children	"I want to introduce you to some very wise kids that I've known, but first I want to introduce you to a camel. This is Cassie, a therapy camel visiting one of our young patients in her room, which is pretty magical. A friend of mine raises camels at his ranch in the Santa Cruz Mountains. He has about eight of them, and he started 30 years ago because he thought horses were too mundane. John is an out-of-the-box thinker, which explains why the two of us have been such good friends all of our lives. Over the years, I've convinced him to shuttle those sweet furry beasts up to hang out with our sick kids from time to time. Talking to John, I was surprised to learn that camels have an average life expectancy of 40 to 50 years. The life expectancy of many of the children with whom I work is less than a year. This is a picture of the George Mark Children's House, the first pediatric palliative respite care center to open in the United States. I founded it in 2004, after years of working as a psychologist on pediatric intensive care units, frustrated with the undignified deaths that so many children experienced and their families had to endure. As I sat with families whose children were at the end of their lives, I was acutely aware of our surroundings. While the elevated train rumbled overhead on its track, quite literally the room reverberated with each passing train car. The lights on the ward were fluorescent and too bright. Monitors beeped, as did the elevator, noisily announcing its arrival. These families were experiencing some of the most excruciating moments of their lives, and I so wanted them to have a more peaceful place in which to say a last goodbye to their young daughters and sons. Surely, I thought, there must be a better spot than a hospital intensive care unit for children at the end of their lives. Our children's house is calm and nurturing. It's a place where families can stay together to enjoy quality time with their children, many of whom are there for respite stays, some with repeated visits over a span of many years. We call those kids our frequent flyers. Rather than the bright, noisy quarters of the hospital, their rooms are calm and comfortable, with actual living spaces for the families, a sanctuary of gardens and a wonderful outdoor playground with special structures for children with physical limitations. This sweet baby Lars came to us directly from a hospital intensive care unit. Imagine hearing the heartbreaking news that none of us would ever want to hear. His parents had been told that Lars had a brain anomaly that would keep him from ever swallowing, walking, talking or developing mentally. Recognizing what little chance he had for survival, his parents chose to focus on the quality of time that they could spend together. They moved into one of our family apartments and treasured each day that they had, which were far too few. Lars's life was brief, to be sure, mere weeks, but it was calm and comfortable. He went on hikes with his parents. The time that he spent in the pool with our aquatic therapist lessened the seizures he was experiencing and helped him to sleep at night. His family had a peaceful place in which to both celebrate his life and mourn his death. It has been five years since Lars was with us, and in that time, his family has welcomed a daughter and another son. They are such a powerful testament to the positive outcome that specialized children's hospice care can create. Their baby's physical discomfort was well managed, giving all of them the gift of time to be together in a beautiful place. I'm going to talk to you now about the elephant rather than the camel in the room. Very few people want to talk about death, and even fewer about children's death. Loss of a child, especially for those of us who have our own children, is frightening, more than frightening, paralyzing, debilitating, impossible. But what I've learned is this: children don't stop dying just because we the adults can't comprehend the injustice of losing them. And what's more, if we can be brave enough to face the possibility of death, even among the most innocent, we gain an unparalleled kind of wisdom. Take Crystal, for example. She was one of the first children to come for care after we opened our doors. She was nine when she arrived, and her neurologist expected that she might live another two weeks. She had an inoperable brain tumor, and her decline had really accelerated in the week before she came to us. After settling into her room, dressed entirely in pink and lavender, surrounded by the Hello Kitty accessories that she loved, she spent the next several days winning over the hearts of every staff member. Bit by bit, her condition stabilized, and then to our astonishment, she actually improved. There were a variety of factors that contributed to Crystal's improvement which we later came to call the ""George Mark bump,"" a lovely, not uncommon phenomenon where children outlive the prognoses of their illnesses if they're outside of the hospital. The calmer atmosphere of her surroundings, tasty meals that were fixed often to accommodate her requests, the resident pets, the therapy dog and rabbit spent lots of cozy time with Crystal. After she had been with us for about a week, she called her grandmother, and she said, ""Gee, I'm staying in a great big house, and there's room for you to come, too. And guess what? You don't have to bring any quarters because the washer and dryer are free."" (Laughter) Crystal's grandmother soon arrived from out of town, and they spent the remaining four months of Crystal's life enjoying very special days together. Some days were special because Crystal was outside in her wheelchair sitting by the fountain. For a little girl who had spent most of the year earlier in a hospital bed, being outside counting hummingbirds made for an amazing time with her grandma, and lots of laughter. Other days were special because of the activities that our child life specialist created for her. Crystal strung beads and made jewelry for everybody in the house. She painted a pumpkin to help decorate for Halloween. She spent many excited days planning her tenth birthday, which of course none of us thought she would ever see. All of us wore pink boas for the occasion, and Crystal, as you can see, queen for a day, wore a sparkly tiara. One hot morning, I arrived at work and Crystal and her partner in crime, Charlie, greeted me. With some help, they had set up a lemonade and cookie stand outside the front door, a very strategic location. I asked Crystal the price of the cookie that I had selected, and she said, ""Three dollars."" (Laughter) I said that seemed a bit high for one cookie. (Laughter) It was small. ""I know,"" she acknowledged with a grin, ""but I'm worth it."" And therein lie the words of wisdom of a young girl whose brief life forever impacted mine. Crystal was worth it, and shouldn't every child whose life is shortened by a horrific illness be worth it? Together, all of us today can offer that same specialized care that Crystal received by recognizing that children's respite and hospice care is a critical component missing from our healthcare landscape. It's also interesting to note that we are able to provide this care at about one third of the cost of a hospital intensive care unit, and our families don't see a bill. We are ever grateful to the supporters who believe in this important work that we're doing. The truth is that my colleagues and I and the parents and other family members who get to experience this special wisdom are in a unique position. There are only two freestanding pediatric hospices in the United States, although I'm happy to report that based on our model, there are 18 others under various stages of development. (Applause) Still, most of the children who die in the United States every year die in hospital rooms, surrounded by beeping machines and anxious, exhausted adults who have no other option but to say goodbye under those harsh, institutional lights and among virtual strangers. For comparison's sake, the United Kingdom, which is a country with about one fifth the population of the United States, and about half the size of the state of California, has 54 hospice and respite centers. Why is that? I've asked myself that question obviously many times. My best guess is that Americans, with our positive can-do attitude hold the expectation that our medical care system will fix it, even though it may be a childhood illness for which there is no cure. We go to extraordinary measures to keep children alive when in fact the greatest kindness that we might give them would be a peaceful, pain-free end of life. The transition from cure to care remains a challenging one for many hospital physicians whose training has really been about saving lives, not about gently guiding the patient to the end of life. The dad of a sweet baby for whom we cared at the end of her life certainly captured this dichotomy when he reflected that there are a lot of people to help you bring an infant into the world but very few to help you usher a baby out. So what is the magic ingredient at George Mark? The complex medical diagnoses that bring our young patients to us mean that their lives have often been restricted, some to a hospital bed for long periods of time, others to wheelchairs, still others to intensive courses of chemotherapy or rehab. We make a practice of ignoring those limitations. Our default answer is ""yes"" and our default question is, ""Why not?"" That's why we took a young boy who wasn't going to live for another baseball season to Game 5 of the World Series. That's why we have a talent show put on by the staff and kids for family and friends. Who wouldn't be enchanted by a young boy playing a piano piece with his feet, because his arms are atrophied? That's why we have a prom every year. It's pretty magical. We started the prom after hearing a dad lament that he would never pin a boutonniere on his son's tuxedo lapel. The weeks before the dance, the house is in a flurry, and I don't know who's more excited, the staff or the kids. (Laughter) The night of the event involves rides in vintage cars, a walk on a red carpet into the great room, a terrific DJ and a photographer at the ready to capture pictures of these attendees and their families. At the end of the evening this year, one of our young, delightful teenaged girls, Caitlin, said to her mom, ""That was the best night of my whole life."" And that's just the point, to capture the best days and nights, to abolish limitations, to have your default answer be ""yes"" and your default question be, ""Why not?"" Ultimately life is too short, whether we live to be 85 years or just eight. Trust me. Better yet, trust Sam. It's not by pretending that death doesn't exist that we keep the people, especially the little people that we love, safe. In the end, we can't control how long any of us lives. What we can control is how we spend our days, the spaces we create, the meaning and joy that we make. We cannot change the outcome, but we can change the journey. Isn't it time to recognize that children deserve nothing less than our most uncompromising bravery and our wildest imagination. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想向你們介紹一些我認識當中非常聰明的孩子，但是首先請允許我向你們介紹一隻駱駝。這是凱茲，它是其中一隻拜訪我們年幼病人的治療駱駝，就在她的房間裡，這是不是很神奇。在聖塔克魯茲山脈，我的一個朋友在他的牧場裡飼養駱駝。他養了八隻。他從三十年前開始飼養，因為他覺得馬過於平常。約翰有不同於常人的思維方式，這也解釋了為什麼我們是關係如此好的朋友，從始至終。這麼多年來，我已說服他將他那些可愛的駱駝們帶出牧場，時而與我們那些病著的孩子互動遊戲。和約翰聊天時，我驚訝的了解到駱駝的平均壽命長達 40 至 50 年；而我照看的那麼多孩子當中，他們的壽命很多都只有不到一年。 這是喬治·馬克兒童中心，這是第一個在美國成立的兒童安寧及喘息照護中心。我在 2004 年成立了這個中心。數年以來，作為一位專職於小兒科加護病房的心理專家，我挫敗地見證那麼多孩子毫無尊嚴的死亡，以及他們的家庭承受著的痛苦。當我坐在孩子的父母身旁，陪伴他們的孩子度過最後的時光，我敏銳地意識到我們周圍的那些嘈雜聲音：高架火車在鐵軌上發出的轟隆聲；每次火車經過時病房內都會有回音。病房裡的螢光燈過於耀眼。監視器嗶嗶響，電梯提示到達樓層的聲音也是很吵。這些家庭正經歷著他們一生中最痛苦的時刻。我無比希望他們能在一個比較寧靜的地方，和他們還年幼的兒女做最後的告別。我想，一定會有一個比醫院的加護中心更好的地方，讓孩子們走完最後的人生。 我們的兒童中心，是平靜且十分關愛的。這是一個能讓家人相聚在一起，與孩子享受歡樂時光。許多病患來這裡做短暫的休養，有些在數年中多次往返。我們笑稱那些孩子為我們的飛行常客。比起醫院裡的刺眼和嘈雜，這裡的房間安靜又舒適，還有家庭活動空間，一個庇護心靈的花園，以及一個很棒的戶外遊樂區，附有為身體受限孩子準備的特殊設備。 這個可愛的男孩拉爾斯，從醫院加護中心直接來到我們這裡。想像一下被告知我們永遠都不想聽到的心碎消息。他的父母被告知拉爾斯有腦部異常，將會導致他永遠不能吞嚥、走路、講話或智力發展。在接受拉爾斯的存活機率是多麼渺小之後，他的父母決定善用拉爾斯與他們能一起度過的剩餘時光。他們搬進我們家庭套房，並且珍惜每一天，但是時間實在太少了。拉爾斯的生命很短暫，準確來說，不過幾周，但是卻十分平靜和舒適。他和他的父母一起去遠足。與我們水療治療師在水池裡的時間，減輕了拉爾斯的癲癇，並且幫助他晚上能夠入睡。他們一家有一個寧靜的地方，來慶祝他活著的每一天，和哀悼他的離去。 拉爾斯已經離開我們五年了，那五年裡，他的家庭又迎來了一個女兒和另一個兒子。他們強有力的證明了，兒童特別的臨終看護可以帶來多大的正面效果。我們很細心照料他們孩子身體上的不舒服，並讓他們在美好的環境裡，享受禮物般的相處時間。 我現在要講的是房間裡的大象，（不願談的困境）而不是在房間裡的駱駝。很少人願意談及死亡，更少的人願意談及孩子的死亡。失去一個孩子，特別是對我們有孩子的人來講，是如此可怕。更勝於可怕的是，令人癱瘓，使人虛弱，不敢想像。但是我清楚的認識到孩子的死亡並不會僅僅因為我們成年人，不願理解失去他們的不公平而停止。除此以外，如果我們勇敢面對死亡的可能性，甚至那些最無辜的孩子們的死亡，我們將會從中獲得無窮的智慧。 以水晶為例，她是中心成立時，最早到來的孩子之一。她來時才九歲，她的腦神經科醫生預測她大約還有兩周的生命。她有一個無法手術的腦部腫瘤，而且在來我們這裡前的一個禮拜裡，她身體的衰退已經加劇。她住進房間以後，她全身換上了粉色和淡紫色的衣服，被她深愛的凱蒂貓所包圍著。她在接下來的幾天中，贏得了我們每一個工作人員的心。逐漸地，她的情況穩定下來。而且令我們吃驚的是，她竟然有改善。有很多因素有助於水晶的改善，我們後來稱之為「喬治·馬克的碰撞火花」，這是一個讓人欣喜，但並非罕見的現象。如果住在醫院之外的地方，孩子們比預計活得要更久。她周圍環境的寧靜，經常滿足她喜好的可口飯菜，中心裡的常駐寵物，水晶與中心的狗和兔子度過的許多舒適時光都提供了療效。 她在我們這裡一星期後，她打給她的祖母，她說：「哎， 我現在住在一個很棒的房子裡，而且這裡也有你可以住的地方，你知道嗎？你不需要帶任何硬幣，因為這裡的洗衣機和烘乾機都是免費的。」 （笑聲） 水晶的祖母很快從外縣市來到了我們這裡，她陪伴著水晶走過了餘下的四個月，一起享受著特別的每一天。有些天很特別，因為水晶坐著輪椅來到外面，坐在噴泉旁。對於一個以前一直躺在醫院病床的小女孩來說，坐在外面數著蜂鳥，與祖母歡聚在一起，並且開懷的大笑，這是多麼寶貴。其他特殊的日子是因為一些我們的兒童生活專家特別為她所準備的活動。水晶將珠子串起來做給我們每個人的首飾。她在南瓜上作畫並幫助我們做萬聖節裝飾。她花了很多天很興奮的計劃著她的十歲生日派對，雖然我們都不認為她會活到那時。我們所有人都戴上粉色的花圈，至於水晶，你們可以看到，是我們那天的皇后，戴著一頂閃耀的皇冠。 某一個炎熱的早晨，我到了中心後，水晶和她的同夥查理向我打招呼。在一些幫助下，他們搭起了一個賣檸檬汁和餅乾的小攤位，就在大門外，一個很明智的地方。我問水晶我選的餅乾的價格，她說： 「三元美金。」 （笑聲） 我說這對一塊餅乾來講太貴了。 （笑聲） 那塊餅乾很小，「我知道。」她嬉笑的回答。「但是我值得這三元美金。」 她說的話對我有很大啟發。這一個年幼女孩短暫的一生永遠影響著我。水晶的確值得。難道所有被可怕疾病縮短生命的孩子，他們的一生不值得這些嗎？今天，我們在座的所有人可以提供和水晶接受到的一樣的特殊看護，只要我們承認到兒童臨終舒緩看護治療，是我們的醫療體系中嚴重缺失的一個項目。更加值得注意的是，我們提供看護治療的費用，只相當於在醫院加護中心的三分之一。而且我們的家庭收不到任何帳單，我們無比感激我們的支持者，他們相信我們工作的重要意義。 實際上，我和我的同事，孩子的家長以及他們其他家庭成員，和我一樣了解這個項目的重要性，但是我們為數極少。目前在美國只有兩個獨立的兒童臨終照護中心。我欣慰的要報告是，採用我們的模式，目前有 18 個中心正在不同階段的建設中。 （掌聲） 但是，目前美國每年死亡的兒童，大多數在醫院裡結束了生命，被嗶嗶聲的機器和焦急、精疲力盡的家長包圍著。他們沒有選擇，只能在刺目的醫院燈光和陌生人的注視下，與自己的寶貝說再見。相比來講，英國僅有著五分之一的美國人口，國家也只有半個加州大小，卻有 54 所臨終看護和喘息休養中心。為什麼呢？我常常問自己，我的猜測是我們積極樂觀美國人，對目前醫療體系有著它會逐漸完善這個缺失的期許，即便它是一個無法治愈的幼兒疾病，我們採取幾乎任何措施來延長孩子的生命，但是事實上我們能給他們最好的禮物，莫過於平靜、沒有痛苦的生命末期。從治愈轉變為照護的過程，對許多醫院的醫生來說還是一種挑戰。醫生認為他們的職責是救人，並不是溫和的引導他們的病人走向生命結束。一個我們看護的可愛寶寶的父親確實領會了這個矛盾。他反映說，有很多人幫助你將你的寶貝帶到這個世界來，卻很少有人願意幫助你帶他們離去。 所以在喬治·馬克有什麼神奇的成分呢？伴隨著病人來到我們中心的那些複雜的診斷，意味著他們的生命會被侷限，有一些在醫院病床上躺很長一段時間，另外一些在輪椅上，還有一些需要密集化療和復健。我們基本上忽略這些限制。我們的默認答案是「可以」，我們的默認問題是「為什麼不可以？」這就是為什麼我們看護的一個年幼的男孩，他的生命被預期不會活過下一個棒球賽季，活到世界杯的第五場（註：大約 10 月底）。這也是為什麼孩子們和員工舉辦了才藝秀，讓他們的家庭和朋友來觀看。誰不會被一個用腳彈奏鋼琴的小男孩而動容，只因為他的手臂萎縮了？這就是為什麼我們每年都有畢業舞會，這個十分神奇。我們在聽到一位父親的悼詞後，決定開始舉辦舞會。他說他再也不可能在他兒子的燕尾服上為他釘上胸花。舞會的幾周前，整個中心亂成一團，我也不知道誰更興奮，員工們還是孩子們。 （笑聲） 活動當晚，有復古車的接送，紅毯走秀，來到室內舞池，很棒的 DJ （音樂播放者），以及一個待命的攝影師，來為出席的成員和他的家庭攝影。今年晚會尾聲的時候，一位討人喜歡的少女，凱特琳對她媽媽說：「這是我一生中最棒的夜晚。」這也是我們的宗旨，記錄下最美好的白天和夜晚，甩掉限制，讓你所有的默認答案為「可以」，所有的默認問題為「為什麼不可以？」 究竟人生太短暫，不管我們活到 85 歲還是只有 8 歲，相信我，或者，相信山姆，我們不是以假裝死亡不存在的方式，保證他們，尤其是我們深愛的孩子們，安全無恙。最終，我們都不能決定我們活多久，但我們能控制的是，我們如何度過我們的時光，我們創造的空間，我們給予的喜悅和意義。我們不能改變結局，但我們能改變旅程。難道現在不是時候，來承認孩子值得我們大人最堅定的勇氣，以及我們無盡美好的想像力。 謝謝大家。（掌聲）
