Talk	en	zh-tw
katie_hinde_what_we_don_t_know_about_mother_s_milk	"Have you ever heard the one about how breastfeeding is free? (Laughter) Yeah, it's pretty funny, because it's only free if we don't value women's time and energy. Any mother can tell you how much time and energy it takes to liquify her body — to literally dissolve herself — (Laughter) as she feeds this precious little cannibal. (Laughter) Milk is why mammals suck. At Arizona State University, in the Comparative Lactation Lab, I decode mothers' milk composition to understand its complexity and how it influences infant development. The most important thing that I've learned is that we do not do enough to support mothers and babies. And when we fail mothers and babies, we fail everyone who loves mothers and babies: the fathers, the partners, the grandparents, the aunties, the friends and kin that make our human social networks. It's time that we abandon simple solutions and simple slogans, and grapple with the nuance. I was very fortunate to run smack-dab into that nuance very early, during my first interview with a journalist when she asked me, ""How long should a mother breastfeed her baby?"" And it was that word ""should"" that brought me up short, because I will never tell a woman what she should do with her body. Babies survive and thrive because their mother's milk is food, medicine and signal. For young infants, mother's milk is a complete diet that provides all the building blocks for their bodies, that shapes their brain and fuels all of their activity. Mother's milk also feeds the microbes that are colonizing the infant's intestinal tract. Mothers aren't just eating for two, they're eating for two to the trillions. Milk provides immunofactors that help fight pathogens and mother's milk provides hormones that signal to the infant's body. But in recent decades, we have come to take milk for granted. We stopped seeing something in plain sight. We began to think of milk as standardized, homogenized, pasteurized, packaged, powdered, flavored and formulated. We abandoned the milk of human kindness and turned our priorities elsewhere. At the National Institutes of Health in Washington DC is the National Library of Medicine, which contains 25 million articles — the brain trust of life science and biomedical research. We can use keywords to search that database, and when we do that, we discover nearly a million articles about pregnancy, but far fewer about breast milk and lactation. When we zoom in on the number of articles just investigating breast milk, we see that we know much more about coffee, wine and tomatoes. (Laughter) We know over twice as much about erectile dysfunction. (Laughter) I'm not saying we shouldn't know about those things — I'm a scientist, I think we should know about everything. But that we know so much less — (Laughter) about breast milk — the first fluid a young mammal is adapted to consume — should make us angry. Globally, nine out of 10 women will have at least one child in her lifetime. That means that nearly 130 million babies are born each year. These mothers and babies deserve our best science. Recent research has shown that milk doesn't just grow the body, it fuels behavior and shapes neurodevelopment. In 2015, researchers discovered that the mixture of breast milk and baby saliva — specifically, baby saliva — causes a chemical reaction that produces hydrogen peroxide that can kill staph and salmonella. And from humans and other mammal species, we're starting to understand that the biological recipe of milk can be different when produced for sons or daughters. When we reach for donor milk in the neonatal intensive care unit, or formula on the store shelf, it's nearly one-size-fits-all. We aren't thinking about how sons and daughters may grow at different rates, or different ways, and that milk may be a part of that. Mothers have gotten the message and the vast majority of mothers intend to breastfeed, but many do not reach their breastfeeding goals. That is not their failure; it's ours. Increasingly common medical conditions like obesity, endocrine disorders, C-section and preterm births all can disrupt the underlying biology of lactation. And many women do not have knowledgeable clinical support. Twenty-five years ago, the World Health Organization and UNICEF established criteria for hospitals to be considered baby friendly — that provide the optimal level of support for mother-infant bonding and infant feeding. Today, only one in five babies in the United States is born in a baby-friendly hospital. This is a problem, because mothers can grapple with many problems in the minutes, hours, days and weeks of lactation. They can have struggles with establishing latch, with pain, with milk letdown and perceptions of milk supply. These mothers deserve knowledgeable clinical staff that understand these processes. Mothers will call me as they're grappling with these struggles, crying with wobbly voices. ""It's not working. This is what I'm supposed to naturally be able to do. Why is it not working?"" And just because something is evolutionarily ancient doesn't mean that it's easy or that we're instantly good at it. You know what else is evolutionarily ancient? (Laughter) Sex. And nobody expects us to start out being good at it. (Laughter) Clinicians best deliver quality equitable care when they have continuing education about how to best support lactation and breastfeeding. And in order to have that continuing education, we need to anchor it to cutting-edge research in both the life sciences and the social sciences, because we need to recognize that too often historical traumas and implicit biases sit in the space between a new mother and her clinician. The body is political. If our breastfeeding support is not intersectional, it's not good enough. And for moms who have to return for work, because countries like the United States do not provide paid parental leave, they can have to go back in as short as just a few days after giving birth. How do we optimize mother and infant health just by messaging about breast milk to moms without providing the institutional support that facilitates that mother-infant bonding to support breastfeeding? The answer is: we can't. I'm talking to you, legislators, and the voters who elect them. I'm talking to you, job creators and collective bargaining units, and workers, and shareholders. We all have a stake in the public health of our community, and we all have a role to play in achieving it. Breast milk is a part of improving human health. In the NICU, when infants are born early or sick or injured, milk or bioactive constituents in milk can be critically important. Environments or ecologies, or communities where there's high risk of infectious disease, breast milk can be incredibly protective. Where there are emergencies like storms and earthquakes, when the electricity goes out, when safe water is not available, breast milk can keep babies fed and hydrated. And in the context of humanitarian crises, like Syrian mothers fleeing war zones, the smallest drops can buffer babies from the biggest global challenges. But understanding breast milk is not just about messaging to mothers and policy makers. It's also about understanding what is important in breast milk so that we can deliver better formulas to moms who cannot or do not breastfeed for whatever reason. We can all do a better job of supporting the diversity of moms raising their babies in a diversity of ways. As women around the world struggle to achieve political, social and economic equality, we must reimagine motherhood as not the central, core aspect of womanhood, but one of the many potential facets of what makes women awesome. It's time. (Applause)"	你們有聽過，媽媽哺乳嬰兒提供的是免費餐嗎？ （笑聲） 真的蠻可笑的……只有在你不把女人付出的時間和精力，當作一回事的時候，你才能說嬰兒餐是免費的。任何母親都能告訴你，這有多耗時間和精力。把自己的身體液化──可以說是把自己溶化掉── （笑聲） 來餵這個可愛的食人族寶寶。 （笑聲） 奶是哺乳動物吸吮的原因。在亞利桑那州立大學比較哺乳學實驗室裡，我剖析母乳的成分，去了解其複雜性，以及它如何影響嬰兒的發育。我學到最重要的，是我們缺乏母親和嬰兒之扶助。當母親和嬰兒獲得的支持不足時，我們也辜負了所有愛母親和嬰兒的人。父親們、伴侶們、祖父母們、阿姨們、親友們，和我們社會中的人倫網絡成員。現在是我們該捨棄簡單的解決方案或簡單的口號，去了解其個中的細微好壞的時候了。 我很幸運，很早就能意識到這個細微的差異，在我第一次受記者採訪的時候。她就問我：「媽媽應該用母乳餵養她的寶寶多久呢？」就是這個詞「應該」 ，讓我思考了很久，因為我永遠不會告訴一個女人她「應該」用她的身體做什麼。 寶寶能生存和茁壯成長，是因為母乳是寶寶的食物、藥物和信號。對於數周的嬰兒，母乳是一種全面的營養飲食，提供他們身體所要的所有必需物，塑造了嬰兒的大腦，並為其所有的活動提供燃料。母乳也餵養著那些，正在嬰兒腸道內繁殖的微生物。母親飲食不只是為兩個人在吃而已，同時也是為了數億個微生物在吃。乳汁提供有助於打擊病原體的免疫因數，母乳提供向嬰兒身體發出信號的激素。 但近幾十年來，我們忽略了乳汁的重要性。我們對這明顯的事情視若無睹：我們開始視乳汁為標準化、均質處理、殺菌過、包裝的、粉末狀的、加添風味、和科學配方的。我們捨棄了人類的母乳，並把我們的重心放在別處了。 位於美國國立衛生研究院內，在華盛頓特區，座落著美國國家醫學圖書館。它存放著 2500 萬個文檔──是生命科學和生物醫學研究寶貴資料收藏地。我們可以使用關鍵字來搜索該資料庫，當我們這樣做時，我們發現近一百萬篇關於懷孕的文章，但關於母乳和哺乳期的就少多了。當我們再深入查看關於母乳的專題文章數量時，我們看到，原來我們更了解咖啡、葡萄酒和番茄。 （笑聲） 而我們對於勃起功能障礙的了解更是兩倍之多。 （笑聲） 我不是說，我們不應該知道這些事情──我是科學家，我想我們應該知道一切事物的。但同時我們也知道，我們懂得也太少了。 （笑聲） 但動物的母乳──是新生哺乳動物寶寶第一口喝到的流體食物──這應該讓我們覺得生氣。在全球，10 名女性中有 9 名會在她一生中至少生一個孩子。這意味著每年有近 1.3 億嬰兒出生。這些母親和嬰兒值得我們最好的科學協助。 最近的研究更證明，奶類不僅使身體發育長大，它影響我們的表現，更領導著神經發展的方向。在 2015 年，研究人員發現，母乳和嬰兒唾液的混合物 ，特別是嬰兒之唾液 ，能引起化學反應而產生過氧化氫，來殺死葡萄球菌和沙門氏菌。而從人類和其他哺乳動物來看，我們開始明白了，奶類在成分對於生物的重要性。母奶分泌的成分會因嬰兒的性別而改變。當我們為新生兒加護病房拿取捐贈者奶時，或在架上的嬰兒配方牛奶時，它們都是一體適用的。我們忽略了男嬰或女嬰會以不同的速度成長，甚至以不同的方式，而奶類可能是其中的一部分成因。 很多母親已經明白和接受這信息，而大多數的母親也決定用母乳撫育嬰兒，但還是很多人沒有達到她們的哺乳目標。這不是她們的失敗，而是我們的。日益普遍的醫療狀況像肥胖、內分泌失調、剖腹產和早產嬰兒，所有這些都可能破壞泌乳之生物學。許多女人都沒獲得有經驗人員的臨床支持。 二十五年前，世界衛生組織和兒童基金會制定了，「寶寶友好醫院」認證的準則，來提供最有效的方法幫助母親和嬰兒建立關係，和嬰兒餵養。今天在美國只有五分之一的嬰兒是出生在寶寶友好醫院。這就是個問題，因為母親們要面對很多在哺乳期漫長時間中遇到的問題。她們可能遇到嬰兒不能順利含乳的問題，或感到疼痛，或泌乳反射，及母乳產量的錯誤認知。這些母親都該獲得對過程孰悉，且經驗豐富的臨床人員之協助。 遇到困難時，這些母親會打電話給我，顫抖的哭音說：「做不到啊，這是母性自然該能做的，為什麼不行呢？」雖然這些是自古進化而來的事，但不意味我們一定也能。你知道還有什麼是上古以來就有的嗎？ （笑聲） 性交配。也沒有人期望我們從一開始就很擅長的。 （笑聲） 臨床醫生能提供最佳的護理。他們要繼續接受教育學習如何有效支持哺乳期和母乳餵養。為了繼續推動這種教育，我們必需同時在生命和社會科學，都注入尖端的研究基礎，因為我們需要察覺到，很多時候，歷史的創傷和隱性偏見，常常存在於新手媽媽，和她們的臨床醫生之間。人體是政治化的。如果對於母乳喂養的支持不能彼此產生互動的話，就代表它還不夠好。而對急著返回工作的媽媽，因為像美國這樣的國家是不提供帶薪育嬰假的，媽媽可能在生育後幾天就回家。我們怎能優化母親和嬰兒健康，如果只是傳遞母乳好處的訊息給媽媽，而沒有體制上的支援，那種促進母乳餵養嬰兒的支持 ，我們怎麼可能成功呢?答案是：我們是無法成功的。我是在向立法委員和你們的選民呼籲，還有老闆們、工會們員工們和股東們。我們對社區公共衛生負有成敗的責任，我們都要扮好各自的角色來促使它成功。母乳是改善人類健康之一環。在新生兒加護病房，當嬰兒早產或生病受傷時，母乳和其中的生物活性成分是至關重要的。在生活、生態環境，或社區中有高風險傳染病時，母乳可以發揮令人難以置信的保護。發生緊急情況像颱風和地震，當電力供應停止時，當飲用水沒有時，母乳仍可以餵養嬰兒和提供水份。而且在人道危機的情況下，像母親逃離敘利亞戰區之時候，只要一滴的母乳，就能讓嬰兒在面臨生死一刻時，還擁有一線生機。 但是要讓人了解母乳撫育的觀念，不能只靠提供母親或決策者訊息而已。還要去了解母乳的重要成分是什麼，這樣才能提供更佳的嬰兒配方奶粉，給那些不能、或不願意親餵的媽媽。我們大家都可以做得更好，來支持媽媽們來養育她們的寶寶，以多元化的方式。 當世界各地的婦女，為實現政治、社會和經濟平等奮鬥時，我們必須重新思考母親的身分；這不是女性扮演的唯一核心角色，而是女性如此偉大的一個潛在原因。 現在該是時候了。 （掌聲）
