Talk	en	zh-tw
ken_robinson_how_to_escape_education_s_death_valley	"Thank you very much. I moved to America 12 years ago with my wife Terry and our two kids. Actually, truthfully, we moved to Los Angeles — (Laughter) thinking we were moving to America, but anyway — (Laughter) It's a short plane ride from Los Angeles to America. (Laughter) I got here 12 years ago, and when I got here, I was told various things, like, ""Americans don't get irony."" (Laughter) Have you come across this idea? It's not true. I've traveled the whole length and breadth of this country. I have found no evidence that Americans don't get irony. It's one of those cultural myths, like, ""The British are reserved."" (Laughter) I don't know why people think this. We've invaded every country we've encountered. (Laughter) But it's not true Americans don't get irony, but I just want you to know that that's what people are saying about you behind your back. You know, so when you leave living rooms in Europe, people say, thankfully, nobody was ironic in your presence. (Laughter) But I knew that Americans get irony when I came across that legislation, ""No Child Left Behind."" (Laughter) Because whoever thought of that title gets irony. (Laughter) Don't they? (Applause) Because it's leaving millions of children behind. Now I can see that's not a very attractive name for legislation: ""Millions of Children Left Behind."" I can see that. What's the plan? We propose to leave millions of children behind, and here's how it's going to work. And it's working beautifully. (Laughter) In some parts of the country, 60 percent of kids drop out of high school. In the Native American communities, it's 80 percent of kids. If we halved that number, one estimate is it would create a net gain to the U.S. economy over 10 years, of nearly a trillion dollars. From an economic point of view, this is good math, isn't it, that we should do this? It actually costs an enormous amount to mop up the damage from the dropout crisis. But the dropout crisis is just the tip of an iceberg. What it doesn't count are all the kids who are in school but being disengaged from it, who don't enjoy it, who don't get any real benefit from it. And the reason is not that we're not spending enough money. America spends more money on education than most other countries. Class sizes are smaller than in many countries. And there are hundreds of initiatives every year to try and improve education. The trouble is, it's all going in the wrong direction. There are three principles on which human life flourishes, and they are contradicted by the culture of education under which most teachers have to labor and most students have to endure. The first is this, that human beings are naturally different and diverse. Can I ask you, how many of you have got children of your own? Okay. Or grandchildren. How about two children or more? Right. And the rest of you have seen such children. (Laughter) Small people wandering about. (Laughter) I will make you a bet, and I am confident that I will win the bet. If you've got two children or more, I bet you they are completely different from each other. Aren't they? (Applause) You would never confuse them, would you? Like, ""Which one are you? Remind me."" (Laughter) ""Your mother and I need some color-coding system so we don't get confused."" Education under ""No Child Left Behind"" is based on not diversity but conformity. What schools are encouraged to do is to find out what kids can do across a very narrow spectrum of achievement. One of the effects of ""No Child Left Behind"" has been to narrow the focus onto the so-called STEM disciplines. They're very important. I'm not here to argue against science and math. On the contrary, they're necessary but they're not sufficient. A real education has to give equal weight to the arts, the humanities, to physical education. An awful lot of kids, sorry, thank you — (Applause) One estimate in America currently is that something like 10 percent of kids, getting on that way, are being diagnosed with various conditions under the broad title of attention deficit disorder. ADHD. I'm not saying there's no such thing. I just don't believe it's an epidemic like this. If you sit kids down, hour after hour, doing low-grade clerical work, don't be surprised if they start to fidget, you know? (Laughter) (Applause) Children are not, for the most part, suffering from a psychological condition. They're suffering from childhood. (Laughter) And I know this because I spent my early life as a child. I went through the whole thing. Kids prosper best with a broad curriculum that celebrates their various talents, not just a small range of them. And by the way, the arts aren't just important because they improve math scores. They're important because they speak to parts of children's being which are otherwise untouched. The second, thank you — (Applause) The second principle that drives human life flourishing is curiosity. If you can light the spark of curiosity in a child, they will learn without any further assistance, very often. Children are natural learners. It's a real achievement to put that particular ability out, or to stifle it. Curiosity is the engine of achievement. Now the reason I say this is because one of the effects of the current culture here, if I can say so, has been to de-professionalize teachers. There is no system in the world or any school in the country that is better than its teachers. Teachers are the lifeblood of the success of schools. But teaching is a creative profession. Teaching, properly conceived, is not a delivery system. You know, you're not there just to pass on received information. Great teachers do that, but what great teachers also do is mentor, stimulate, provoke, engage. You see, in the end, education is about learning. If there's no learning going on, there's no education going on. And people can spend an awful lot of time discussing education without ever discussing learning. The whole point of education is to get people to learn. An old friend of mine — actually very old, he's dead. (Laughter) That's as old as it gets, I'm afraid. (Laughter) But a wonderful guy he was, wonderful philosopher. He used to talk about the difference between the task and achievement senses of verbs. You can be engaged in the activity of something, but not really be achieving it, like dieting. (Laughter) It's a very good example. There he is. He's dieting. Is he losing any weight? Not really. (Laughter) Teaching is a word like that. You can say, ""There's Deborah, she's in room 34, she's teaching."" But if nobody's learning anything, she may be engaged in the task of teaching but not actually fulfilling it. The role of a teacher is to facilitate learning. That's it. And part of the problem is, I think, that the dominant culture of education has come to focus on not teaching and learning, but testing. Now, testing is important. Standardized tests have a place. But they should not be the dominant culture of education. They should be diagnostic. They should help. (Applause) If I go for a medical examination, I want some standardized tests. I do. I want to know what my cholesterol level is compared to everybody else's on a standard scale. I don't want to be told on some scale my doctor invented in the car. (Laughter) ""Your cholesterol is what I call Level Orange."" ""Really?"" (Laughter) ""Is that good?"" ""We don't know."" (Laughter) But all that should support learning. It shouldn't obstruct it, which of course it often does. So in place of curiosity, what we have is a culture of compliance. Our children and teachers are encouraged to follow routine algorithms rather than to excite that power of imagination and curiosity. And the third principle is this: that human life is inherently creative. It's why we all have different résumés. We create our lives, and we can recreate them as we go through them. It's the common currency of being a human being. It's why human culture is so interesting and diverse and dynamic. I mean, other animals may well have imaginations and creativity, but it's not so much in evidence, is it, as ours? I mean, you may have a dog. And your dog may get depressed. You know, but it doesn't listen to Radiohead, does it? (Laughter) And sit staring out the window with a bottle of Jack Daniels. (Laughter) ""Would you like to come for a walk?"" ""No, I'm fine."" (Laughter) ""You go. I'll wait. But take pictures."" (Laughter) We all create our own lives through this restless process of imagining alternatives and possibilities, and one of the roles of education is to awaken and develop these powers of creativity. Instead, what we have is a culture of standardization. Now, it doesn't have to be that way. It really doesn't. Finland regularly comes out on top in math, science and reading. Now, we only know that's what they do well at, because that's all that's being tested. That's one of the problems of the test. They don't look for other things that matter just as much. The thing about work in Finland is this: they don't obsess about those disciplines. They have a very broad approach to education, which includes humanities, physical education, the arts. Second, there is no standardized testing in Finland. I mean, there's a bit, but it's not what gets people up in the morning, what keeps them at their desks. The third thing — and I was at a meeting recently with some people from Finland, actual Finnish people, and somebody from the American system was saying to the people in Finland, ""What do you do about the drop-out rate in Finland?"" And they all looked a bit bemused, and said, ""Well, we don't have one. Why would you drop out? If people are in trouble, we get to them quite quickly and we help and support them."" Now people always say, ""Well, you know, you can't compare Finland to America."" No. I think there's a population of around five million in Finland. But you can compare it to a state in America. Many states in America have fewer people in them than that. I mean, I've been to some states in America and I was the only person there. (Laughter) Really. Really. I was asked to lock up when I left. (Laughter) But what all the high-performing systems in the world do is currently what is not evident, sadly, across the systems in America — I mean, as a whole. One is this: they individualize teaching and learning. They recognize that it's students who are learning and the system has to engage them, their curiosity, their individuality, and their creativity. That's how you get them to learn. The second is that they attribute a very high status to the teaching profession. They recognize that you can't improve education if you don't pick great people to teach and keep giving them constant support and professional development. Investing in professional development is not a cost. It's an investment, and every other country that's succeeding well knows that, whether it's Australia, Canada, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong or Shanghai. They know that to be the case. And the third is, they devolve responsibility to the school level for getting the job done. You see, there's a big difference here between going into a mode of command and control in education — That's what happens in some systems. Central or state governments decide, they know best and they're going to tell you what to do. The trouble is that education doesn't go on in the committee rooms of our legislative buildings. It happens in classrooms and schools, and the people who do it are the teachers and the students, and if you remove their discretion, it stops working. You have to put it back to the people. (Applause) There is wonderful work happening in this country. But I have to say it's happening in spite of the dominant culture of education, not because of it. It's like people are sailing into a headwind all the time. And the reason I think is this: that many of the current policies are based on mechanistic conceptions of education. It's like education is an industrial process that can be improved just by having better data, and somewhere in the back of the mind of some policy makers is this idea that if we fine-tune it well enough, if we just get it right, it will all hum along perfectly into the future. It won't, and it never did. The point is that education is not a mechanical system. It's a human system. It's about people, people who either do want to learn or don't want to learn. Every student who drops out of school has a reason for it which is rooted in their own biography. They may find it boring. They may find it irrelevant. They may find that it's at odds with the life they're living outside of school. There are trends, but the stories are always unique. I was at a meeting recently in Los Angeles of — they're called alternative education programs. These are programs designed to get kids back into education. They have certain common features. They're very personalized. They have strong support for the teachers, close links with the community and a broad and diverse curriculum, and often programs which involve students outside school as well as inside school. And they work. What's interesting to me is, these are called ""alternative education."" (Laughter) You know? And all the evidence from around the world is, if we all did that, there'd be no need for the alternative. (Applause) (Applause ends) So I think we have to embrace a different metaphor. We have to recognize that it's a human system, and there are conditions under which people thrive, and conditions under which they don't. We are after all organic creatures, and the culture of the school is absolutely essential. Culture is an organic term, isn't it? Not far from where I live is a place called Death Valley. Death Valley is the hottest, driest place in America, and nothing grows there. Nothing grows there because it doesn't rain. Hence, Death Valley. In the winter of 2004, it rained in Death Valley. Seven inches of rain fell over a very short period. And in the spring of 2005, there was a phenomenon. The whole floor of Death Valley was carpeted in flowers for a while. What it proved is this: that Death Valley isn't dead. It's dormant. Right beneath the surface are these seeds of possibility waiting for the right conditions to come about, and with organic systems, if the conditions are right, life is inevitable. It happens all the time. You take an area, a school, a district, you change the conditions, give people a different sense of possibility, a different set of expectations, a broader range of opportunities, you cherish and value the relationships between teachers and learners, you offer people the discretion to be creative and to innovate in what they do, and schools that were once bereft spring to life. Great leaders know that. The real role of leadership in education — and I think it's true at the national level, the state level, at the school level — is not and should not be command and control. The real role of leadership is climate control, creating a climate of possibility. And if you do that, people will rise to it and achieve things that you completely did not anticipate and couldn't have expected. There's a wonderful quote from Benjamin Franklin. ""There are three sorts of people in the world: Those who are immovable, people who don't get it, or don't want to do anything about it; there are people who are movable, people who see the need for change and are prepared to listen to it; and there are people who move, people who make things happen."" And if we can encourage more people, that will be a movement. And if the movement is strong enough, that's, in the best sense of the word, a revolution. And that's what we need. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	謝謝大家 我12年前搬到美國與我的妻子泰瑞和兩個孩子其實我們是搬到洛杉磯 （笑聲）還以為我們搬到了美國反正，從洛杉磯到美國坐飛機也用不了多久 我 12 年前來到這裡剛到的時候，聽過各種說法例如「美國人聽不懂諷刺」你們聽說過這個說法嗎？但這不是真的，我旅行全美各地完全不認為美國人聽不懂諷刺這就是所謂的文化迷思還有人說「英國人很保守」我不知為何有人這麼想我們侵略每個遇到的國家（笑聲）說美國人聽不懂諷刺，絕對是假的我只想讓你們知道別人在背後怎麼說你們當美國人在歐洲起身離開客廳大家會說，還好沒人當你的面諷刺 我知道美國人完全了解諷刺就在我聽到「沒有孩子落後」時(有教無類法案 No Child Left Behind)命名者一定了解什麼叫諷刺不是嗎，因為…（笑聲）（掌聲）因為幾百萬孩子落後了如果法案叫做「百萬孩子落後」也不合適，這我明白我們打算怎麼做呢？我們建議讓百萬孩子落後我們這麼做 而且成效顯著美國的某些地區60% 的孩子從高中輟學美國原住民社區輟學率更高達 80%若能把數字減半，預計會對美國經濟十年內貢獻淨值近一兆美元從經濟角度來看非常划算，對吧？那是不是該做呢？要花極高成本才能解決輟學危機的傷害 但輟學危機只是冰山一角還沒包括人在學校但心不在學校的孩子他們不喜歡上學也沒從學校獲益 根本原因不是經費不足美國花在教育的投資比世界上大多數國家都多班級人數也較少每年有幾百件方案嘗試改善教育問題是，這些嘗試都走錯了方向有三大法則讓人活得精彩現有教育文化卻背道而馳，因此老師教得辛苦學生學得痛苦 第一項法則是：人類天生就各不相同 請問一下在座多少人有子女？有孫子或孫女嗎？有兩位以上子女的？好其他人應該也看過小孩吧（笑聲）不管哪裡都有小孩我跟各位打賭我一定會贏如果你有兩位以上子女我打賭他們一定截然不同對吧？對吧？（掌聲）你永遠不會搞混，對吧？你不會說「提醒我誰是哥哥？你媽和我打算用顏色區別，免得把你們搞混了。」 「有教無類法案」所倡導的教育並非基於多樣性，而是要統一學校只被要求在狹窄範圍內探索學生潛力「有教無類法案」的影響之一是只重視數理主科這些學科很重要我不是要說，科學及數學不重要它們很重要，只是還不夠真正的教育應同樣重視藝術、人文、體育許多孩子，抱歉，謝謝…（掌聲）據估計目前在美國約有 10% 的孩子被診斷出各種症狀結果一律被稱為注意力不足障礙 (ADD)或 注意力不足過動症 (ADHD)我不是說這種病不存在但我不相信會如此盛行如果讓孩子坐好幾小時不用頭腦，只是機械性抄寫坐不住是很正常的（笑聲）（掌聲）大多數的孩子並沒有心理問題只是因為童年而受煎熬 （笑聲）我知道，因為我也經歷過童年而且是完整經歷過孩子要茁壯，該有廣泛課程開發他們不同的天分而不是只有其中幾科順帶一提，藝術的重要性不是數學可以考高分而在於可和孩子一些本來碰觸不到的部分對話 第二項…謝謝… （掌聲） 要活得精彩，第二項法則是：好奇心如果你能激發孩子的好奇心通常不用幫忙，他就會主動學習孩子天生就會學習無論是激發或扼殺這項能力都會產生巨大影響好奇心是成就的火車頭我會這麼說是因為我大膽的說，當前文化的影響之一是剝奪了教師的專業性世界上沒有哪個教育體系的品質、沒有哪個學校的品質，能超過其教師的品質教師是學校成功的關鍵教書是需要創造力的職業好的老師不只是傳遞知識不只是把收到的資訊傳下去好的老師不但傳授知識更是良師益友刺激、誘導、吸引歸根究柢，教育的核心是學生主動學習沒有學習就沒有教育人們花了太多時間只談教育、不談學習教育的目的就是讓人主動學習 我有個朋友，老朋友－真的很老已經死了 （笑聲）人最老也不過如此他是個了不起的人是個偉大的哲學家他曾談到，「進行」一件事和「完成」一件事，意義大不相同你可以進行著某件事但沒有成果像節食就是個很好的例子他一直節食，體重有減輕嗎？沒有教學也是這樣你可以說，「戴老師在教室教書」但如果沒人學到東西他就只是在「進行」教學但沒有真正「完成」教學任務 教師的角色是促進學習，這是重點我認為部分問題在於教育的主流文化重視的不是教與學，而是考試考試很重要的，標準化測驗有必要但不該主導教育文化考試應該是診斷、是輔助（掌聲）如果我參加體檢我當然也要做常規檢驗我想知道我的膽固醇指數在標準尺度下和他人的比較我不想參考我醫生發明的標準： 「你的膽固醇指數為橘色。」 「是嗎？是好消息嗎？」「不知道。」 測驗應該是輔助、而非妨礙學習可惜目前經常是妨礙就好奇心而言我們的教育文化要求服從鼓勵孩子和老師遵守固定規則而不是激發想像力和好奇心第三項法則是：人生的本質就是創造性我們的經歷各不相同我們創造自己的命運我們經歷的同時，也在重新創造這是人類的共同價值人類文化也因此多采多姿、充滿活力其他動物可能也有想像力與創造力，但和人類相比就沒那麼明顯比方說你有隻狗得了憂鬱症但牠不會因此開始聽電台司令的歌吧？(Radiohead 樂團)（笑聲）牠不會喝傑克丹尼威士忌，對窗外發呆 (Jack Daniels)（笑聲） 你如果說，「想出去走走嗎？」 牠不會說，「不，我沒事，去吧，我要靜一靜，記得拍點照片。」 我們經由不斷變化的過程創造人生不斷想像有哪些選擇、哪些可能教育目的之一就是喚醒並發展創造力但現在教育反而走向標準化 不該是這樣，真的不應該芬蘭學生在全球名列前茅不論數學、科學、或閱讀我們只知道他們擅長這些科目因為現在只考了這幾科這就是測驗的問題之一你無法找出同樣重要的其他因素芬蘭所作的努力是這樣的：他們不只重視這幾科他們的教育範圍很廣包括人文、體育、藝術 其次，芬蘭沒有標準化考試當然有些考試但用意不是要學生早起晨讀不是要把學生綁在書桌前 第三，最近我參加了一個會議有邀請芬蘭人、真正芬蘭來的人有位美國教育體系的人問芬蘭人：「芬蘭的輟學率多高？」 芬蘭人呆住了，說：「我們一個輟學生都沒有。為什麼要輟學呢？學生有困難，我們很快會發現，並幫助他們、支持他們。」 有人會說：「不能拿芬蘭和美國比。」 不，芬蘭人口大約只有 500 萬但你可拿芬蘭和美國一州相比美國許多州人口還沒芬蘭多我去過美國的一些州就只有我一個人（笑聲）真的，真的還有人叫我走的時候要鎖門（笑聲） 全球許多優秀教育體系的做法在美國很難看到，很可惜我是指美國整體而言做法之一是：教學與學習個人化他們認為，學生是學習的主體教育體系應該吸引學生重視好奇心、個別性、創造力才能讓學生想要學習 第二種做法是：給教師崇高的地位他們認為教育不可能改善除非挑選優秀人才教書、除非給老師不斷支持、以及專業發展機會老師的專業發展不是花費而是投資每個成功的國家都清楚這點不論澳洲、加拿大、韓國、新加坡、香港、上海。大家都清楚這點 第三種做法是，下放教育的責任到學校層級這和我們教育指揮與控制的模式差別很大有些教育體系由中央政府決定或由州政府決定他們覺得自己最懂，因此發號施令問題是，教育並不是在立法機關的會議室進行的而是在教室和學校進行的老師和學生是教育的主體如果剝奪了他們的自主權就會產生問題必須把自主權還給他們（掌聲） 現在美國有些了不起的成就但我不得不說教育界的主導文化是這些成就的阻力而非助力變成要不斷逆風航行我認為原因在於許多現行教育政策，是基於把教育當作機器的觀念教育好像是工廠在生產調整參數就可以改善而我認為，這些政策的背後制定者的想法是只要參數調得夠好，就能成功就能完美航向未來不可能，從來都沒有過 關鍵在於，教育不是機械的系統而是人的系統，核心在人有人想學習、有人不想每個輟學的孩子，背後都有原因可能來自他個人經歷可能覺得無聊、覺得無關緊要可能覺得學習和校外現實生活有衝突原因類似，但背後故事個個不同我最近在洛杉磯參加了一個會議主題是：替代性教育課程目的在幫助孩子重返教育課程有些共同特點課程非常個人化對教師強力支持與社區緊密聯繫課程廣泛多樣有些課程包括了外校學生、本校學生這些課程確實有效我覺得最有趣的一點是課程名稱叫「替代性教育」你知道嗎？由全球得到的證據顯示如果教育本來就是這樣就不需要替代性教育了（掌聲） 我們必須擁抱另一種作法必須認知，教育是人的系統有些環境會使人成功有些則不會我們本質上都是有機生物學校的文化極為重要文化也是個有機的名詞，不是嗎？ 我家附近有個地方叫死亡谷(Death Valley)死亡谷是美國最熱最乾的地方沒有生物可以生長沒有雨水，生物無法生長所以叫死亡谷2004 年冬天，死亡谷下雨了短期內降雨 7 英寸 (約 180 公釐)2005 年春天，奇蹟發生了死亡谷開滿了花朵花朵盛開了一段時間這證明了：死亡谷並沒有死亡只是在沉睡地底下埋了各種可能性的種子等待時機、迸發而出對於有機系統，只要條件適合生命的發生是必然的，總是這樣選個學科、選個學校、選個地區改變條件，讓人覺得有不同可能、不同期待、更多機會、珍惜並重視師生關係給予創造力的自主權讓每個人都能創新學校就能起死回生 偉大的領導人都清楚教育界領導者的真正角色－不管在國家層級、各州層級、學校層級…都不是、也不該是指揮與控制領導者的真正角色應該是控制大環境創造一種充滿可能性的環境若能如此，人們就會挺身而出得到的成果，不但出乎意料更會超出期望 富蘭克林 (Benjamin Franklin)有句偉大的名言：「世界上有三種人：第一種人不知不覺，他們不想改變、不願改變、更阻礙改變；第二種人後知後覺，他們知道必須改變，並樂觀其成；第三種人知覺而動，他們造成改變。」如果我們可以激勵更多人就可以形成運動如果聲勢夠大就能成為革命這正是我們需要的 謝謝大家！（掌聲）非常感謝！（掌聲）
