Talk	en	zh-tw
kenneth_lacovara_hunting_for_dinosaurs_showed_me_our_place_in_the_universe	"How do you find a dinosaur? Sounds impossible, doesn't it? It's not. And the answer relies on a formula that all paleontologists use. And I'm going to tell you the secret. First, find rocks of the right age. Second, those rocks must be sedimentary rocks. And third, layers of those rocks must be naturally exposed. That's it. Find those three things and get yourself on the ground, chances are good that you will find fossils. Now let me break down this formula. Organisms exist only during certain geological intervals. So you have to find rocks of the right age, depending on what your interests are. If you want to find trilobites, you have to find the really, really old rocks of the Paleozoic — rocks between a half a billion and a quarter-billion years old. Now, if you want to find dinosaurs, don't look in the Paleozoic, you won't find them. They hadn't evolved yet. You have to find the younger rocks of the Mesozoic, and in the case of dinosaurs, between 235 and 66 million years ago. Now, it's fairly easy to find rocks of the right age at this point, because the Earth is, to a coarse degree, geologically mapped. This is hard-won information. The annals of Earth history are written in rocks, one chapter upon the next, such that the oldest pages are on bottom and the youngest on top. Now, were it quite that easy, geologists would rejoice. It's not. The library of Earth is an old one. It has no librarian to impose order. Operating over vast swaths of time, myriad geological processes offer every possible insult to the rocks of ages. Most pages are destroyed soon after being written. Some pages are overwritten, creating difficult-to-decipher palimpsests of long-gone landscapes. Pages that do find sanctuary under the advancing sands of time are never truly safe. Unlike the Moon — our dead, rocky companion — the Earth is alive, pulsing with creative and destructive forces that power its geological metabolism. Lunar rocks brought back by the Apollo astronauts all date back to about the age of the Solar System. Moon rocks are forever. Earth rocks, on the other hand, face the perils of a living lithosphere. All will suffer ruination, through some combination of mutilation, compression, folding, tearing, scorching and baking. Thus, the volumes of Earth history are incomplete and disheveled. The library is vast and magnificent — but decrepit. And it was this tattered complexity in the rock record that obscured its meaning until relatively recently. Nature provided no card catalog for geologists — this would have to be invented. Five thousand years after the Sumerians learned to record their thoughts on clay tablets, the Earth's volumes remained inscrutable to humans. We were geologically illiterate, unaware of the antiquity of our own planet and ignorant of our connection to deep time. It wasn't until the turn of the 19th century that our blinders were removed, first, with the publication of James Hutton's ""Theory of the Earth,"" in which he told us that the Earth reveals no vestige of a beginning and no prospect of an end; and then, with the printing of William Smith's map of Britain, the first country-scale geological map, giving us for the first time predictive insight into where certain types of rocks might occur. After that, you could say things like, ""If we go over there, we should be in the Jurassic,"" or, ""If we go up over that hill, we should find the Cretaceous."" So now, if you want to find trilobites, get yourself a good geological map and go to the rocks of the Paleozoic. If you want to find dinosaurs like I do, find the rocks of Mesozoic and go there. Now of course, you can only make a fossil in a sedimentary rock, a rock made by sand and mud. You can't have a fossil in an igneous rock formed by magma, like a granite, or in a metamorphic rock that's been heated and squeezed. And you have to get yourself in a desert. It's not that dinosaurs particularly lived in deserts; they lived on every land mass and in every imaginable environment. It's that you need to go to a place that's a desert today, a place that doesn't have too many plants covering up the rocks, and a place where erosion is always exposing new bones at the surface. So find those three things: rocks of the right age, that are sedimentary rocks, in a desert, and get yourself on the ground, and you literally walk until you see a bone sticking out of the rock. Here's a picture that I took in Southern Patagonia. Every pebble that you see on the ground there is a piece of dinosaur bone. So when you're in that right situation, it's not a question of whether you'll find fossils or not; you're going to find fossils. The question is: Will you find something that is scientifically significant? And to help with that, I'm going to add a fourth part to our formula, which is this: get as far away from other paleontologists as possible. (Laughter) It's not that I don't like other paleontologists. When you go to a place that's relatively unexplored, you have a much better chance of not only finding fossils but of finding something that's new to science. So that's my formula for finding dinosaurs, and I've applied it all around the world. In the austral summer of 2004, I went to the bottom of South America, to the bottom of Patagonia, Argentina, to prospect for dinosaurs: a place that had terrestrial sedimentary rocks of the right age, in a desert, a place that had been barely visited by paleontologists. And we found this. This is a femur, a thigh bone, of a giant, plant-eating dinosaur. That bone is 2.2 meters across. That's over seven feet long. Now, unfortunately, that bone was isolated. We dug and dug and dug, and there wasn't another bone around. But it made us hungry to go back the next year for more. And on the first day of that next field season, I found this: another two-meter femur, only this time not isolated, this time associated with 145 other bones of a giant plant eater. And after three more hard, really brutal field seasons, the quarry came to look like this. And there you see the tail of that great beast wrapping around me. The giant that lay in this grave, the new species of dinosaur, we would eventually call ""Dreadnoughtus schrani."" Dreadnoughtus was 85 feet from snout to tail. It stood two-and-a-half stories at the shoulder, and all fleshed out in life, it weighed 65 tons. People ask me sometimes, ""Was Dreadnoughtus bigger than a T. rex?"" That's the mass of eight or nine T. rex. Now, one of the really cool things about being a paleontologist is when you find a new species, you get to name it. And I've always thought it a shame that these giant, plant-eating dinosaurs are too often portrayed as passive, lumbering platters of meat on the landscape. (Laughter) They're not. Big herbivores can be surly, and they can be territorial — you do not want to mess with a hippo or a rhino or a water buffalo. The bison in Yellowstone injure far more people than do the grizzly bears. So can you imagine a big bull, 65-ton Dreadnoughtus in the breeding season, defending a territory? That animal would have been incredibly dangerous, a menace to all around, and itself would have had nothing to fear. And thus the name, ""Dreadnoughtus,"" or, ""fears nothing."" Now, to grow so large, an animal like Dreadnoughtus would've had to have been a model of efficiency. That long neck and long tail help it radiate heat into the environment, passively controlling its temperature. And that long neck also serves as a super-efficient feeding mechanism. Dreadnoughtus could stand in one place and with that neck clear out a huge envelope of vegetation, taking in tens of thousands of calories while expending very few. And these animals evolved a bulldog-like wide-gait stance, giving them immense stability, because when you're 65 tons, when you're literally as big as a house, the penalty for falling over is death. Yeah, these animals are big and tough, but they won't take a blow like that. Dreadnoughtus falls over, ribs break and pierce lungs. Organs burst. If you're a big 65-ton Dreadnoughtus, you don't get to fall down in life — even once. Now, after this particular Dreadnoughtus carcass was buried and de-fleshed by a multitude of bacteria, worms and insects, its bones underwent a brief metamorphosis, exchanging molecules with the groundwater and becoming more and more like the entombing rock. As layer upon layer of sediment accumulated, pressure from all sides weighed in like a stony glove whose firm and enduring grip held each bone in a stabilizing embrace. And then came the long ... nothing. Epoch after epoch of sameness, nonevents without number. All the while, the skeleton lay everlasting and unchanging in perfect equilibrium within its rocky grave. Meanwhile, Earth history unfolded above. The dinosaurs would reign for another 12 million years before their hegemony was snuffed out in a fiery apocalypse. The continents drifted. The mammals rose. The Ice Age came. And then, in East Africa, an unpromising species of ape evolved the odd trick of sentient thought. These brainy primates were not particularly fast or strong. But they excelled at covering ground, and in a remarkable diaspora surpassing even the dinosaurs' record of territorial conquest, they dispersed across the planet, ravishing every ecosystem they encountered, along the way, inventing culture and metalworking and painting and dance and music and science and rocket ships that would eventually take 12 particularly excellent apes to the surface of the Moon. With seven billion peripatetic Homo sapiens on the planet, it was perhaps inevitable that one of them would eventually trod on the grave of the magnificent titan buried beneath the badlands of Southern Patagonia. I was that ape. And standing there, alone in the desert, it was not lost on me that the chance of any one individual entering the fossil record is vanishingly small. But the Earth is very, very old. And over vast tracts of time, the improbable becomes the probable. That's the magic of the geological record. Thus, multitudinous creatures living and dying on an old planet leave behind immense numbers of fossils, each one a small miracle, but collectively, inevitable. Sixty-six million years ago, an asteroid hits the Earth and wipes out the dinosaurs. This easily might not have been. But we only get one history, and it's the one that we have. But this particular reality was not inevitable. The tiniest perturbation of that asteroid far from Earth would have caused it to miss our planet by a wide margin. The pivotal, calamitous day during which the dinosaurs were wiped out, setting the stage for the modern world as we know it didn't have to be. It could've just been another day — a Thursday, perhaps — among the 63 billion days already enjoyed by the dinosaurs. But over geological time, improbable, nearly impossible events do occur. Along the path from our wormy, Cambrian ancestors to primates dressed in suits, innumerable forks in the road led us to this very particular reality. The bones of Dreadnoughtus lay underground for 77 million years. Who could have imagined that a single species of shrew-like mammal living in the cracks of the dinosaur world would evolve into sentient beings capable of characterizing and understanding the very dinosaurs they must have dreaded? I once stood at the head of the Missouri River and bestraddled it. There, it's nothing more than a gurgle of water that issues forth from beneath a rock in a boulder in a pasture, high in the Bitterroot Mountains. The stream next to it runs a few hundred yards and ends in a small pond. Those two streams — they look identical. But one is an anonymous trickle of water, and the other is the Missouri River. Now go down to the mouth of the Missouri, near St. Louis, and it's pretty obvious that that river is a big deal. But go up into the Bitterroots and look at the Missouri, and human prospection does not allow us to see it as anything special. Now go back to the Cretaceous Period and look at our tiny, fuzzball ancestors. You would never guess that they would amount to anything special, and they probably wouldn't have, were it not for that pesky asteroid. Now, make a thousand more worlds and a thousand more solar systems and let them run. You will never get the same result. No doubt, those worlds would be both amazing and amazingly improbable, but they would not be our world and they would not have our history. There are an infinite number of histories that we could've had. We only get one, and wow, did we ever get a good one. Dinosaurs like Dreadnoughtus were real. Sea monsters like the mosasaur were real. Dragonflies with the wingspan of an eagle and pill bugs the length of a car really existed. Why study the ancient past? Because it gives us perspective and humility. The dinosaurs died in the world's fifth mass extinction, snuffed out in a cosmic accident through no fault of their own. They didn't see it coming, and they didn't have a choice. We, on the other hand, do have a choice. And the nature of the fossil record tells us that our place on this planet is both precarious and potentially fleeting. Right now, our species is propagating an environmental disaster of geological proportions that is so broad and so severe, it can rightly be called the sixth extinction. Only unlike the dinosaurs, we can see it coming. And unlike the dinosaurs, we can do something about it. That choice is ours. Thank you. (Applause)"	究竟怎樣去尋找恐龍呢？聽起來不太可能，對吧？其實不然。答案依憑一個所有古生物學家都知道的公式。而且我將告訴你這個秘密。 首先，尋找相應年代的岩石。然後，這些岩石必須是沉積岩。再者，岩石的積層必須是自然暴露的。這樣就足夠了。滿足這三件條件後你就可以動手了，你找到化石的機會很大。 現在我來解析這個公式。生物只存在於某個特定的地質斷層。所以你必須尋找相應年代的岩石，依照你的興趣。如果你想找三葉蟲，那你必須找那些相當古老的古生代岩石 —年齡在5億和2.5億之間的岩石。如果你想要尋找恐龍，就不要在古生代岩石裡找，你不會找到的。它們還未演化。你要找相對年輕的中生代岩石，並且是恐龍存活的年代，大概是2.35億至6600萬年前。 目前，要尋找適當年代的岩石還算容易，大致來說，地球是根據地質來繪制的。這是一個得來不易的資訊。地球的編年史刻寫在岩石裡，一章接著一章，所以最古老的一頁在底層，而最新的在上面。 好了，如果真那麽容易，地質學家會欣喜若狂。可惜不是。地球圖書館很老舊。裡面並沒有管理員維持秩序。經歷長期運作，任何地質變動過程對於各時代的地層造成各種可能的影響。大部分內容剛寫完後就被破壞了。有一些被新的覆蓋，使它難以還原消失已久的地質原貌。在如流沙飛逝的時間中倖免的部分，也絕非真正安全。不像月球 — 我們死寂的衛星 —地球是活的，充滿著生命力和破壞力，為地質的新陳代謝提供動力。阿波羅太空人帶回來的月球岩石，所有數據顯示其有太陽系的年齡。月球岩石是永久的。另一方面，地球岩石面臨著活著的岩石圈的危機。它們都會遭受毀滅，通過一些合併、毀傷、壓縮、折疊、撕裂、燒灼和烘烤。 所以，地球的史書是不完整的和散亂的。這個圖書館是廣闊而壯麗的 —卻也是衰老的。同時岩石擁有它破碎的複雜的記錄，隱藏了它的涵義直到近代。大自然沒有提供卡片式目錄給地質學家 —這需要我們去編寫。在蘇美爾人學會將他們的想法記錄在泥板上的五千年後，地球這本冊子對人類來說仍然是高深莫測的。我們對地質學知之甚少，對我們星球的歷史也了解不多並忽略了我們與古老時期的聯繫。 直到19世紀之後，我們眼罩的才被拿掉，首先，詹姆斯·赫頓的《地球學說》問世，書中提到地球的起源無跡可尋，終結也無法預測，而後，威廉·史密斯編繪出英國地圖，這首張國家疆域的地質圖，讓我們第一次對特定年代岩石的分佈進行預測。因此，你可以說：「如果去那裡，我們會進入侏羅紀。」「翻過這座山丘，我們應該會找到白堊紀。」 那如果你想尋找三葉蟲，那就準備一張好的地圖然後找尋古生代的岩石。如果你想像我一樣去想找尋恐龍，那就要找到中生代的岩石。當然，化石只會出現在沉積岩中，這種岩石由沙和泥土組成。化石不會出現在像花崗岩這類由岩漿組成的火成岩中，或是經高溫擠壓而形成的變質岩中。而且你要去沙漠。並不是恐龍只生活在沙漠裡；它們可生活在任何陸地上和任何可想像到的環境中。你需要去沙漠，這樣岩石就不會被植被覆蓋，而且在那裡，侵蝕會讓新的岩層暴露。所以，具備這三個條件：特定年代的岩石，沙漠裡的沉積岩，然後你站在沙漠上，一直走，直到看見有骨骼化石突出岩層。 這是張南巴塔哥尼亞的照片。地上的每個石子都是一塊恐龍骨骼化石。所以在那個情況下，問題不是能否找到化石，你一定會找到的。問題是，找到的是否對科學研究有意義？所以，為了解決此問題，我會在方法中增加第四步，那就是：離其他的古生物學家越遠越好。 （笑聲） 並不是我不喜歡他們。而是當你去到一個相對未探索的地方時，不僅有更大機會找到化石，而且還可能在科學上有所新發現。這就是我尋找恐龍的秘方，而且我曾在世界各地用過。 在2004年南半球的夏季，我前往南美洲的最南端，阿根廷的巴塔哥尼亞的南部，去尋找恐龍：那個有特定年代的陸生沉積岩的地方，位於沙漠中，而且是古生物學家甚少探訪之地。我們找到這個。一條股骨，一條大腿骨，是屬於一隻巨型草食恐龍。那骨頭有2.2米長。差不多超過7英尺。 但不幸的是，那條股骨是孤立的。我們不斷的挖，可都沒有其他發現。但它卻吸引著我們次年返回繼續探尋。而在新探索開展的當天，我找到這個：另一條兩米長的股骨，這次它並不是獨立的，它與其他145塊巨型草食恐龍骨頭連在一起。而在三段艱難的挖掘季之後，現場變成這樣。你可以看見那隻巨獸的尾巴卷曲著在我身邊。躺在這裡的巨獸是恐龍新品種，最後它被命名為「許蘭氏無畏龍」。無畏龍從鼻到尾長85尺。它站立時肩部達兩層半樓高，活著時體重有65噸。人們有時會問，「無畏龍是否比暴龍大？」事實它有八到九個暴龍那麼大。 有一個作為古生物學家很酷的事是你可以命名你發現的新品種。而我一直很介意大型草食恐龍常被描述成大是自然景觀中被動、笨重的盤中肉。 （笑聲） 它們絕非那樣。大型草食動物也可能脾氣暴躁，也可以稱霸一方 —你不會想與河馬，犀牛或水牛亂來。黃石國家公園裡的野牛遠比灰熊傷了更多人。所以你可以想像一隻重65噸如大公牛般的無畏龍在繁殖季節堅守領地的情景嗎？它會變得極度危險，它毫無畏懼並對周圍造成威脅。所以獲名「無畏龍」，「無所畏懼」。 然而，要擁有如此大的體形，像無畏龍這樣的動物必須很高效。它長長的脖子和尾巴可幫助散熱，起到控溫作用。而其長脖也是個高效的進食機制。無畏龍站在原地，移動脖子就能清乾淨大片的植被，攝取大量的熱量，同時卻消耗無幾。這些動物演化成鬥牛犬般的寬步姿態，讓它們穩定性更好，因為當你有65噸重，如房子一樣大時，跌倒的懲罰是死亡。是的，這些動物又大又堅硬，但它們受不了那樣的一擊。無畏龍倒下後，肋骨破裂，同時刺穿肺部，內臟爆裂。如果你是一隻65噸重的無畏龍，你不會想跌倒 — 一次也不想。 好了，在這隻無畏龍的軀體被掩埋，肉被細菌，蠕蟲和昆蟲饞食分解後，骨頭轉變型態，與地下水進行分子交換，變得越來越像周圍的岩石。當一層層的泥沙累積起來，四周的壓力就像石手套向中心施壓，牢固持久的握住每一塊骨頭，緊緊的包裹住。 然後就是漫長的......什麼都沒發生。一代又一代，一直一樣，數不清的沒事發生。同時， 骸骨保持永恆不變，完美的平衡狀態，在它的石棺中。同時，地球的歷史展開了。恐龍又统治1200萬年，它們的霸權才在一場曠世浩劫中終結。而後大陸漂移。哺乳類動物崛起。冰河時期到來。 然後，在東非，一種看來沒出息的猿類出奇地在有情思維中進化出來。這些聰明的靈長類並非特別快速或強壯。但它們擅長佔領土地，並利用出色的散居的方式，超越恐龍征服領土的紀錄，它們分佈在地球每一處，強佔了每一個遇到的生態系統，在過程中，它們創造出文化、金工、繪畫、舞蹈、音樂、還有科學，並用火箭載著12位特別傑出的猿人，飛到月球表面。 有七十億人類在地球上來回走動，最終難免會有人踏上這巨獸的墳墓，在南巴塔哥尼亞貧瘠的地表下。我就是那個猿人。獨自站在那片沙漠上，我沒有忘記，每個人遇到化石的機會，是十分渺小的。但地球非常的古老。而經過漫長的時間隧道，不可能成為可能。這就是地理的魔力。然而，大量的生物在這顆古老的星球上生存死亡留下了大量的化石，每一個體都是小小的奇蹟，但集體而言，則是必然的。 六千六百萬年前，一顆小行星撞擊地球導致恐龍滅絕。再來一次，這很可能不會發生。我們只有一個歷史，就是現在我們所有的。但是這個特定的現實不是必然會發生的。任何對那顆遙遠小隕石施加的微小擾動也能使它遠遠的錯過地球。關鍵、災難、滅絕恐龍的那一天，打造了我們熟知的現代世界，並不必然發生。它也可以是另外一天 —也許是星期四 —在恐龍已經享有的六百三十億個日子中的一天。但是在地理時間中，這不可能的，幾乎是不可能的事情確實發生了。從我們低賤的寒武紀祖先，到西裝革履的人類，無數條分岔路引領我們到這個特定的現實。無畏龍的骨骸躺在地下已七千七百萬年。誰又能想像到那如同潑婦一般的哺乳動物在恐龍時期只能在夾縫中求生存如今已進化成有智慧的生物，能分析和理解當初會讓他們懼怕的恐龍們。 我曾站在密蘇里河的源頭然後跨過它。在那裡，它只不過是涓涓細流，從比特魯特山脈高處一處牧場裡的一塊岩石下所流出的一股水流。它旁邊的小水流僅奔流了幾百碼就注入在一個小池子裡。這兩條看似相似的水流卻一條默默無聞，另一條則是密蘇里河。順流而下來到密蘇里河靠近聖路易斯的河口，顯然這是條大河。但回到比特魯特山脈來看它，以人類的眼界並不能察覺到它的特殊性。再講回白堊紀看看我們渺小，毛球般的祖先。你絕不能猜到他們將會特別有出息；若非那塊討厭的隕石，他們應該不會有。 現在，就算另造一千個世界，和另外一千個太陽系，讓他們發展，你永遠不會得到一樣的結果。無庸置疑，這些世界會同樣精彩，令人難以置信，但是它們不可能有與我們相同的歷史。這裡有無窮我們可能經歷的歷史，而我們只能有一個，哇，我們所得到的真好。恐龍，像無畏龍是真實存在過的。海怪，像滄龍也是真實存在過的。有著老鷹般翅膀的蜻蜓，和如同汽車般大的蟲子也存在過。 為什麼要研究古老的過去？因為它讓我們展望未來並學會謙遜。恐龍在世界第五次大滅絕中滅亡，它們死於天災而並非自己的過錯。它們無法預見災難的發生，也沒得選。另一方面，我們是可以選擇的。化石揭露了人類在地球的處境危機重重，同時可能轉瞬即逝。目前，人類正大規模傳佈生態災難這是場廣泛和嚴重的全球性災難，絕對可以稱作第六次大滅絕。但唯一不同於恐龍的是，我們能看到它即將來臨。並且，不像恐龍，我們可以做些什麼。如何選擇在於我們。 謝謝。（掌聲）
