Talk	en	zh-tw
kevin_allocca_why_videos_go_viral	"Hi. I'm Kevin Allocca, I'm the trends manager at YouTube, and I professionally watch YouTube videos. It's true. So we're going to talk a little bit today about how videos go viral and then why that even matters. We all want to be stars — celebrities, singers, comedians — and when I was younger, that seemed so very, very hard to do. But now Web video has made it so that any of us or any of the creative things that we do can become completely famous in a part of our world's culture. Any one of you could be famous on the Internet by next Saturday. But there are over 48 hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute. And of that, only a tiny percentage ever goes viral and gets tons of views and becomes a cultural moment. So how does it happen? Three things: tastemakers, communities of participation and unexpectedness. All right, let's go. (Video) Bear Vasquez: Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God! Wooo! Ohhhhh, wowwww! KA: Last year, Bear Vasquez posted this video that he had shot outside his home in Yosemite National Park. In 2010, it was viewed 23 million times. (Laughter) This is a chart of what it looked like when it first became popular last summer. But he didn't actually set out to make a viral video, Bear. He just wanted to share a rainbow. Because that's what you do when your name is Yosemite Mountain Bear. (Laughter) And he had posted lots of nature videos in fact. And this video had actually been posted all the way back in January. So what happened here? Jimmy Kimmel actually. Jimmy Kimmel posted this tweet that would eventually propel the video to be as popular as it would become. Because tastemakers like Jimmy Kimmel introduce us to new and interesting things and bring them to a larger audience. (Video) Rebecca Black: ♫ It's Friday, Friday. Gotta get down on Friday. ♫ ♫ Everybody's looking forward to the weekend, weekend. ♫ ♫ Friday, Friday. Gettin' down on Friday. ♫ KA: So you didn't think that we could actually have this conversation without talking about this video I hope. Rebecca Black's ""Friday"" is one of the most popular videos of the year. It's been seen nearly 200 million times this year. This is a chart of what it looked like. And similar to ""Double Rainbow,"" it seems to have just sprouted up out of nowhere. So what happened on this day? Well it was a Friday, this is true. And if you're wondering about those other spikes, those are also Fridays. (Laughter) But what about this day, this one particular Friday? Well Tosh.0 picked it up, a lot of blogs starting writing about. Michael J. Nelson from Mystery Science Theater was one of the first people to post a joke about the video on Twitter. But what's important is that an individual or a group of tastemakers took a point of view and they shared that with a larger audience, accelerating the process. And so then this community formed of people who shared this big inside joke and they started talking about it and doing things with it. And now there are 10,000 parodies of ""Friday"" on YouTube. Even in the first seven days, there was one parody for every other day of the week. (Laughter) Unlike the one-way entertainment of the 20th century, this community participation is how we become a part of the phenomenon — either by spreading it or by doing something new with it. (Music) So ""Nyan Cat"" is a looped animation with looped music. It's this, just like this. It's been viewed nearly 50 million times this year. And if you think that that is weird, you should know that there is a three-hour version of this that's been viewed four million times. (Laughter) Even cats were watching this video. (Laughter) Cats were watching other cats watch this video. (Laughter) But what's important here is the creativity that it inspired amongst this techie, geeky Internet culture. There were remixes. (Laughter) Someone made an old timey version. (Laughter) And then it went international. (Laughter) An entire remix community sprouted up that brought it from being just a stupid joke to something that we can all actually be a part of. Because we don't just enjoy now, we participate. And who could have predicted any of this? Who could have predicted ""Double Rainbow"" or Rebecca Black or ""Nyan Cat?"" What scripts could you have written that would have contained this in it? In a world where over two days of video get uploaded every minute, only that which is truly unique and unexpected can stand out in the way that these things have. When a friend of mine told me that I needed to see this great video about a guy protesting bicycle fines in New York City, I admit I wasn't very interested. (Video) Casey Niestat: So I got a ticket for not riding in the bike lane, but often there are obstructions that keep you from properly riding in the bike lane. (Laughter) KA: By being totally surprising and humorous, Casey Niestat got his funny idea and point seen five million times. And so this approach holds for anything new that we do creatively. And so it all brings us to one big question ... (Video) Bear Vasquez: What does this mean? Ohhhh. (Laughter) KA: What does it mean? Tastemakers, creative participating communities, complete unexpectedness, these are characteristics of a new kind of media and a new kind of culture where anyone has access and the audience defines the popularity. I mean, as mentioned earlier, one of the biggest stars in the world right now, Justin Bieber, got his start on YouTube. No one has to green-light your idea. And we all now feel some ownership in our own pop culture. And these are not characteristics of old media, and they're barely true of the media of today, but they will define the entertainment of the future. Thank you. (Applause)"	"嗨！我是凱文·艾羅卡，YouTube的趨勢分析經理我以專業的眼光看YouTube影片不蓋你今天我們來聊一聊影片爲什麼會爆紅以及為什麼這很重要我們都想成名–名流、歌星、喜劇演員–我年輕的時候，這好像非常非常困難但是現在網路影片發達了所以無論是人或是有創意的事都可以藉此在全球文化的某一角成名說不定在座的某一位在下星期六前就會成為網路名人但是每分鐘有總長超過48小時的影片上傳到YouTube其中只有非常少的百分比會爆紅，吸引成千上萬的人觀看，變成話題要怎樣才能爆紅？有三個重要因素：領導潮流的人，製造參與感以及意外感好吧！開始吧！ （影片）熊先生：喔！天哪！喔！天哪！喔！我的天！哦！喔~哦~ 去年熊先生上傳了這支影片是他在優勝美地國家公園的住家外拍的2010年這支影片的觀看次數為二億三千萬（笑聲）這張圖顯示了去年夏天他剛剛紅起來的樣子但熊先生的原意不是要拍發燒影片他只是想要分享彩虹因為這是自稱「優勝美地山景熊」的人會做的事（笑聲）其實他還上傳了很多自然景觀的影片這支影片事實上早年去年一月就在上面了所以這裡到底發生了什麼事？都是因爲Jimmy Kimmel （美國脫口秀主持人）Jimmy Kimmel這則推文推波助瀾使這支影片大受歡迎因為像Jimmy Kimmel這種領導潮流的人不但會介紹新奇有趣的東西還會將這些東西推廣給廣大的觀眾 （影片）黑麗小姐：♫今天是星期五，星期五，玩樂的星期五♫♫每個人都巴望著週末，週末♫♫星期五，星期五，玩樂的星期五♫ 凱文：接下來要再繼續講下去你想我們有可能不談這部片子嗎？黑麗小姐的「星期五」是今年最夯的影片之一今年就吸引了近二億人次觀看這張表是它的趨勢圖跟熊先生的「兩道彩虹」很類似這片子好像突然就竄紅了 那天倒底發生了什麼事？那天是星期五，的確其他那些高峰，是的，也是星期五（笑聲）但是那天那個特別的星期五到底發生了什麼？就是Tosh.0（電視節目）選中了它，很多部落格也相繼討論奧秘科學劇院（電視節目）的邁可・納爾遜率先在推特上取笑這支影片重點是像這樣領導潮流的名人看了影片後跟廣大觀眾群分享觀點，加速了爆紅 所以這群分享著共通笑話的觀眾不但一起討論，接著還會搞一點東西來亂所以現在YouTube上有一萬部「星期五」惡搞片甚至在最先七天就出現了針對週間其他天來亂的影片（笑聲）不像20世紀的娛樂是單向行為我們以集體參與傳播影片或著集體對影片搞一點新東西使我們變成潮流的一分子 （音樂） 這個""Nyan Cat""（喵喵貓）是一種連續動畫圖配合著連續背景音樂就是這個，只有這樣今年它的觀看次數是五千萬次如果你覺得這簡直是不可思議你就更難想像還有一個三小時的版本吸引了四百萬人次觀看（笑聲）甚至還有貓在看這個影片（笑聲）貓在觀察其他的貓看這部影片 （笑聲） 但是重要的是在這網路科技怪咖文化裏所激發出來的靈感和創造力他們做了很多混音版（笑聲）有人弄了個懷舊版（笑聲）然後還有國際版的（笑聲）混音族竄出讓這個原本只是個愚蠢的笑話變成大家都可以參一腳的玩意因為我們不只是開心地看我們還參與了製作 當初有誰想得到這些呢？誰能預料到「兩道彩虹」、黑麗小姐或「喵喵貓」會紅呢？你會寫什麼劇本可能會把這些東西放在裡面的？在這個每分鐘會上傳總長超過兩天的網路影片界只有那些真的很特別很令人意外的片子能以這些特徵引人注目我的朋友大力推薦一段很棒的影片是一個抗議紐約市單車罰單的傢伙拍的我得承認我原本沒什麼興趣 （影片）凱西：我吃了一張罰單，因為我沒騎在單車專用道上可是那裡障礙重重啊我根本沒辦法在上面好好的騎車 （笑聲） 凱西以出人意料的方式及幽默感吸引了五百萬人次觀看他的搞笑版抗議這種方法適用在每一件我們所創作的新東西上所以這促使我們問一個大哉問 ... （影片）熊先生：這意味著什麼？喔（笑聲） 這意味著什麼？領導潮流者、創意性集體參與以及完全出人意料是新媒體及新文化的特徵在其中人人都能參與而且由觀眾決定歡迎度我是說，就像之前提到的現在最紅的藝人小賈斯汀也是從YouTube紅起來的你的點子不需要人批准而且我們都覺得在流行文化裡擁有或多或少的自主權這些不是舊時代的媒體特徵也不能代表今天的媒體但是他們一定會成為未來的娛樂型態 謝謝 （鼓掌）"
