Talk	en	zh-tw
khadija_gbla_my_mother_s_strange_definition_of_empowerment	"Hi. Today I'm going to share my personal journey with female genital mutilation, FGM. Feel free to cry, laugh, cross your legs, or do anything your body feels like doing. I'm not going to name the things your body does. I was born in Sierra Leone. Did anybody watch ""Blood Diamond""? If you have any thoughts — I don't have any diamonds  on me, by the way. If you have heard of Ebola, well, that's in Sierra Leone as well. I don't have Ebola. You're all safe. Don't rush to the door. Be seated. You're fine. I was checked before I got here. My grandfather had three wives. Don't ask me why a man needs more than one wife. Men, do you need more than one wife? I don't think so. There you go. He was looking for a heart attack, that's what I say. Oh yeah, he was. When I was three, war broke out in Sierra Leone in 1991. I remember literally going to bed one night, everything was good. The next day, I woke up, bombs were dropping everywhere, and people were trying to kill me and my family. We escaped the war and ended up in Gambia, in West Africa. Ebola is there as well. Stay away from it. While we were there as refugees, we didn't know what was going to become of us. My mom applied for refugee status. She's a wonderful, smart woman, that one, and we were lucky. Australia said, we will take you in. Good job, Aussies. Before we were meant to travel, my mom came home one day, and said, ""We're going on  a little holiday, a little trip."" She put us in a car, and we drove for hours and ended up in a bush in a remote area in Gambia. In this bush, we found two huts. An old lady came towards us. She was ethnic-looking, very old. She had a chat with my mom, and went back. Then she came back and walked away from us into a second hut. I'm standing there thinking, ""This is very confusing. I don't know what's going on."" The next thing I knew, my mom took me into this hut. She took my clothes off, and then she pinned me down on the floor. I struggled and tried to get her off me, but I couldn't. Then the old lady came towards me with a rusty-looking knife, one of the sharp knives, orange-looking, has never seen water or sunlight before. I thought she was going to slaughter me, but she didn't. She slowly slid down my body and ended up where my vagina is. She took hold of what I now know to be my clitoris, she took that rusty knife, and started cutting away, inch by inch. I screamed, I cried, and asked my mom to get off me so this pain will stop, but all she did was say, ""Be quiet."" This old lady sawed away at my flesh for what felt like forever, and then when she was done, she threw that piece of flesh across the floor as if it was the most disgusting thing she's ever touched. They both got off me, and left me there bleeding, crying, and confused as to what just happened. We never talked about this again. Very soon, we found that we were coming to Australia, and this is when you had the Sydney Olympics at the time, and people said we were going to the end of the world, there was nowhere else to go after Australia. Yeah, that comforted us a bit. It took us three days to get here. We went to Senegal, then France, and then Singapore. We went to the bathroom to wash our hands. We spent 15 minutes opening the tap like this. Then somebody came in, slid their hand under and water came out, and we thought, is this what we're in for? Like, seriously. We got to Adelaide, small place, where literally they dumped us in Adelaide, that's what I would say. They dumped us there. We were very grateful. We settled and we liked it. We were like, ""We're home, we're here."" Then somebody took us to Rundle Mall. Adelaide has only one mall. It's this small place. And we saw a lot of Asian people. My mom said all of a sudden, panicking, ""You brought us to the wrong place. You must take us back to Australia."" Yeah. It had to be explained to her that  there were a lot of Asians in Australia and we were in the right place. So fine, it's all good. My mom then had this brilliant idea that I should go to a girls school because they were less racist. I don't know where she read  that publication. (Laughter) Never found evidence of it to this day. Six hundred white kids,  and I was the only black child there. No, I was the only person with a bit of a color on me. Let me say that. Chocolate color. There were no Asians, no indigenous. All we had was some tan girls, girls who felt the need to be under the sun. It wasn't the same as my chocolate, though. Not the same. Settling in Australia was quite hard, but it became harder when I started volunteering for an organization called Women's Health Statewide, and I joined their female genital mutilation program without any awareness of what this program was actually about, or that it related to me in any way. I spent months educating nurses and doctors about what female genital mutilation was and where it was practiced: Africa, the Middle East, Asia, and now, Australia and London and America, because, as we all know, we live in a multicultural society, and people who come from those backgrounds come with their culture, and sometimes they have cultural practices that we may not agree with, but they continue to practice them. One day, I was looking at the chart of the different types of female genital mutilation, FGM, I will just say FGM for short. Type I is when they cut off the hood. Type II is when they cut off the whole clitoris and some of your labia majora, or your outer lips, and Type III is when they  cut off the whole clitoris and then they sew you up so you only have a little hole to pee and have your period. My eyes went onto Type II. Before all of this, I pretty much had amnesia. I was in so much shock  and traumatized by what had happened, I didn't remember any of it. Yes, I was aware something bad happened to me, but I had no recollection of what had happened. I knew I had a scar down there, but I thought everybody had a scar down there. This had happened to everybody else. But when I looked at Type II, it all came back to me. I remembered what was done to me. I remembered being in that hut with that old lady and my mom holding me down. Words cannot express the pain I felt, the confusion that I felt, because now I realized that  what was done to me was a terrible thing that in this society was called barbaric, it was called mutilation. My mother had said it was called circumcision, but here it was mutilation. I was thinking, I'm mutilated? I'm a mutilated person. Oh my God. And then the anger came. I was a black angry woman. (Laughter) Oh yeah. A little one, but angry nevertheless. I went home and said to my mom, ""You did something."" This is not the African thing to do, pointing at your mother, but hey, I was ready for any consequences. ""You did something to me."" She's like, ""What are you talking about, Khadija?"" She's used to me mouthing off. I'm like, ""Those years ago, You circumcised me. You cut away something that belonged to me."" She said, ""Yes, I did. I did it for your own good. It was in your best interest. Your grandmother did it to me, and I did it to you. It's made you a woman."" I'm like, ""How?"" She said, ""You're empowered, Khadija. Do you get itchy down there?"" I'm like, ""No, why would I get itchy down there?"" She said, ""Well, if you were not circumcised, you would get itchy down there. Women who are not circumcised get itchy all the time. Then they sleep around with everybody. You are not going to sleep around with anybody."" And I thought, her definition of empowerment was very strange. (Laughter) That was the end of our first conversation. I went back to school. These were the days when we had  Dolly and Girlfriend magazines. There was always the sealed section. Anybody remember those sealed sections? The naughty bits, you know? Oh yeah, I love those. (Laughter) Anyway, there was always an article about pleasure and relationships and, of course, sex. But it always assumed that you had a clitoris, though, and I thought, this doesn't fit me. This doesn't talk about people like me. I don't have a clitoris. I watched TV and those women would moan like, ""Oh! Oh!"" I was like, these people and their damned clitoris. (Laughter) What is a woman without a clitoris supposed to do with her life? That's what I want to know. I want to do that too — ""Oh! Oh!"" and all of that. Didn't happen. So I came home once again and said to my mom, ""Dolly and Girlfriend said I deserve pleasure, that I should be having orgasms, and that white men should figure out how to find the clitoris."" Apparently, white men have a problem finding the clitoris. (Laughter) Just saying, it wasn't me. It was Dolly that said that. And I thought to myself, I had an inner joke in my head that said, ""I will marry a white man. He won't have that problem with me."" (Laughter) So I said to my mom, ""Dolly and Girlfriend said I deserve pleasure, and do you know what you have taken away from me, what you have denied me? You have invaded me in the most sacred way. I want pleasure. I want to get horny, dammit, as well."" And she said to me, ""Who is Dolly and Girlfriend? Are they your new friends, Khadija?"" I was like, ""No, they're not. That's a magazine, mom, a magazine."" She didn't get it. We came from two different worlds. When she was growing up, not having a clitoris was the norm. It was celebrated. I was an African Australian girl. I lived in a society that was very clitoris-centric. It was all about the damn clitoris! And I didn't have one! That pissed me off. So once I went through this strange phase of anger and pain and confusion, I remember booking an appointment with my therapist. Yes, I'm an African  who has a therapist. There you go. And I said to her, ""I was 13. I was a child. I was settling in a new country, I was dealing with racism and discrimination, English is my third language, and then there it was."" I said to her, ""I feel like I'm not a woman because of what was done to me. I feel incomplete. Am I going to be asexual?"" Because from what I knew about FGM, the whole aim of it was to control the sexuality of women. It's so that we don't have any sexual desire. And I said, ""Am I asexual now? Will I just live the rest of my life not feeling like having sex, not enjoying sex?"" She couldn't answer my questions, so they went unanswered. When I started having my period around the age of 14, I realized I didn't have  normal periods because of FGM. My periods were heavy, they were long, and they were very painful. Then they told me I had fibroids. They're like these little balls sitting there. One was covering one of my ovaries. And there came then the big news. ""We don't think you can have children, Khadija."" And once again, I was an angry black woman. I went home and I said to my mom, ""Your act, your action, no matter what your may defense may be"" — because she thought she did it out love — ""what you did out of love  is harming me, and it's hurting me. What do you have to say for that?"" She said, ""I did what I had to do as a mother."" I'm still waiting for an apology, by the way. Then I got married. And once again — FGM is like the gift that keeps giving. You figure that out very soon. Sex was very painful. It hurt all the time. And of course I realized, they said, ""You can't have kids."" I thought, ""Wow, is this my existence? Is this what life is all about?"" I'm proud to tell you, five months ago, I was told I was pregnant. (Applause) I am the lucky girl. There are so many women out there who have gone through FGM who have infertility. I know a nine-year-old girl who has incontinence, constant infections, pain. It's that gift. It doesn't stop giving. It affects every area of your life, and this happened to me because I was born a girl in the wrong place. That's why it happened to me. I channel all that anger,  all that pain, into advocacy because I needed my pain to be worth something. So I'm the director of an organization called No FGM Australia. You heard me right. Why No FGM Australia? FGM is in Australia. Two days ago, I had to call Child Protective Services, because somewhere in Australia, there's a four-year old there's a four-year-old whose mom  is planning on performing FGM on her. That child is in kindy. I'll let that sink in: four years old. A couple of months ago, I met a lady who is married to a Malaysian man. Her husband came home one day and said he was going to take their daughters back to Malaysia to cut off their clitoris. And she said, ""Why?"" He said they were dirty. And she said, ""Well, you married me."" He said, ""Oh, this is my cultural belief."" They then went into a whole discussion where she said to him, ""Over my dead body will you do that to my daughters."" But imagine if this woman wasn't aware of what FGM was, if they never had that conversation? Her children would have been flown over to Malaysia and they would have come back changed for the rest of their lives. Do you know the millions of dollars it would take us to deal with an issue like that? [Three children per day] in Australia are at risk of having FGM performed on them. This is an Australian problem, people. It's not an African problem. It's not a Middle Eastern problem. It's not white, it's not black, it has no color, it's everybody's problem. FGM is child abuse. It's violence against women. It's saying that women don't have a right to sexual pleasure. It says we don't have a right to our bodies. Well, I say no to that, and you know what? Bullshit. That's what I have to say to that. (Applause) I am proud to say that I'm doing my part in ending FGM. What are you going to do? There may be a child in your classroom who is at risk of FGM. There may be a patient who comes to your hospital who is at risk of FGM. But this is the reality, that even in our beloved Australia, the most wonderful place in the world, children are being abused because of a culture. Culture should not be a defense for child abuse. I want ever single one of you to see FGM as an issue for you. Make it personal. It could be your daughter, your sister, your cousin. I can't fight FGM alone. I could try, but I can't. So my appeal to you is, please join me. Sign my petition on Change.org and type in Khadija, my name, and it'll come up, and sign it. The aim of that is to get support for FGM victims in Australia and to protect little girls growing up here to not have this evil done to them, because every child has a right to pleasure. Every child has a right to their bodies being left intact, and dammit, ever child has a right to a clitoris. So please join me in ending this act. My favorite quote is, ""All it takes for evil to prevail is for a few good men and women to do nothing."" Are you going to let this evil of female genital mutilation to prevail in Australia? I don't think so, so please join me in ensuring that it ends in my generation. Thank you. (Applause)"	"大家好。今天我想分享的親身經歷是關於女性外陰殘割（FGM）。你們可以隨意哭、笑、翹腳或做一些你覺得舒服的事，我不會將你們身體會做的事一項一項地列出來。 我在獅子山共和國出生。有人看過電影《血鑽石》嗎？你要是現在已經萌生一些想法...我順帶一提，我身上並沒有任何鑽石。如果你有聽過伊波拉病毒，獅子山也有伊波拉個案。我沒有攜帶伊波拉病毒，你們都很安全，不要忙著往門那裡跑。坐下來。你們沒事。我來之前已經被檢查過了。 我的祖父有三個妻子。不要問我為甚麼男人需要超過一個妻子。男士們，你們需要多於一個妻子嗎？我不這麼認為。就是這樣。他是在自找心臟病，我是這麼認為的。噢，是的，他真的是自找麻煩。 1991年，在我三歲的時候，獅子山爆發了一場戰爭。我清楚地記得有一晚睡覺時，甚麼事都沒發生。翌日，我醒過來的時候，到處都是從天擲下的炸彈，有些人還試圖殺害我和我的家人。我們逃離戰爭，抵達西非的甘比亞。那裡也有伊波拉病毒，不要去。我們在那裡是難民，我們不知道甚麼事會降臨到我們的身上。我媽媽申請了難民身份，在這件事情上，她是個了不起又聰明的女人。我們很幸運，澳洲接納了我們。多虧你們了，澳洲人。 在我們遠走他鄉之前，媽媽有一天回到家說：「我們去度假，一個小小的旅行。」她把我們帶上車，我們開了幾小時的車，到達一個位於甘比亞偏遠地區的灌木林。叢林裡，我們找到了兩間小棚屋。一個老婦人迎我們而來，她看來是很民族的感覺，年紀很大。她跟媽媽談了一會就回去了然後她又走回來，走進第二間小棚屋我站在那兒，不禁想：「真叫人摸不著頭腦，到底發生甚麼事。」接下來我記得媽媽會帶我走入這間棚屋她把我的衣服脫掉然後把我壓在地上我拼命掙扎，想要把她推開，但都無補於事那個老女人走上前，拿著一把生鏽的刀那種鋒利的、褐鏽色從不見天日或水的刀我以為她想殺我但她沒有她的手缓慢地滑過我的身軀停在了陰道處她拿捏住我的下體，我後來才知道那是陰蒂她用那把生鏽的刀開始一寸一寸地割下我歇斯底里地哭叫懇求媽媽放我下來，結束這痛苦但她卻一直叫我「不要吵」這老女人割下我的肉，整個過程感覺永遠沒有結束完事之後她把那塊肉扔在地上彷彿那是她碰過最噁心的東西她們倆從我身上走開把我獨自留在那裡淌血、痛哭、茫然。我在想“剛剛發生了什麼” 從此我們再沒有提過這件事不久，我們就起行到澳洲那時候正在舉辦雪梨奧運會人們說我們將要去世界的盡頭澳洲再往外，就沒有任何東西了是的，這的確讓我們感到些許寬慰（反話）我們花了三天才來到這裡我們途經塞内加爾、法國、然後到新加坡我们去洗手間洗手花了十五分鐘都無法把水龍頭弄開之後有人進來把手放到了（水龍頭）下面，水就出來了我们當時在想，這是我们將要生活的地方嗎？真的，不可思議 我們到達了阿德萊德，小地方他們就把我們扔在了阿德萊德，真的可以說是，把我們“扔”在了那裡。我們仍然很感激。我們安置了下來，並且喜歡那裡。對我們來說是，“我們到家了，就在這裡”然後有人帶我們去朗德爾購物中心。阿德萊德只有一個購物中心。就是這麼小的地方。我們看到很多亞洲人。我媽突然很慌張地說，“你把我們帶到錯的地方了。你必須帶我們回澳大利亞。”對啊，我們還得向她解釋在澳大利亞有很多亞洲人我們在對的地方。好吧，所有事情都到位了。 我媽然後有了這個很不錯的主意我必須去女子學校，因為他們會比較沒有種族主義。我不知道她在哪裡讀到這個刊物。（笑）至今從來沒有發現這個刊物的痕跡600個白人小朋友，而我是唯一的黑人小朋友。不對，我是唯一的皮膚有顏色的小朋友。讓我說吧，巧克力的顏色。沒有亞洲人，沒有原著民。我們有的就是幾個曬得比較黑的女孩子，這些女孩子覺得必須要曬太陽。不過（她們的顏色）和我的巧克力色不同，不是一樣的。在澳大利亞安家（對我來說）並不容易，而在我開始在某個組織當志工後，就更加困難了這個組織叫做“全洲婦女健康“我參加了他們的”女性外陰殘割“的計劃完全不知道這個計劃是做什麼的，也不知這個就和我自己有關。我花數月的時間教育護士和醫生有關什麼是“女性外陰殘割”以及在哪裡有這樣的情況：如非洲，中東，亞洲，而現在，在澳大利亞，倫敦和美國。因為，如我們所知，我們生活在一個多元文化的社會，而從這些文化背景來的人們也帶來了他們的文化，有時候，他們有一些文化的做法，並不是我們所認同的，但是他們會繼續實行。 有一天，我正在看一個不同女性外陰殘割類型的表格，FGM，我就簡稱女性外陰殘割為FGM好了類型一是把（陰蒂上方）的皮割掉類型二是把整個陰蒂割掉以及部分的外陰唇，類別三是把整個陰蒂割掉然後把那裡縫起來僅剩一個小出口尿尿和來月經。我的眼睛看著類型二。在此之前，我幾乎患了失憶症。當時我非常震驚並且精神上受到了創傷我居然完全不記得。我確實是意識到不好的事情發生了，當我並沒有去回憶發生了什麼。我知道我的下面有個傷疤，當我以為每一個人下面都有個傷疤。每個人都經歷過這個。但當我看著類型二的時候，所有的記憶都回來了。我想起了她們對我做了什麼。我想起了在那個棚屋裡那個老婦人和我母親把我按住。 言語無法表達我所感到的疼痛，我所感到的困惑，因為我意識到了她們對我所做的事情，是一件可怕的事情在這個社會被稱為野蠻的事情，它叫做女性外陰殘割。我的母親曾說這叫做割禮，但在這裡這是殘割。我在想，我被殘割了？我是一個殘缺的人。我的天啊。 接著，憤怒就來了。我是一個憤怒的女黑人。（笑）嗯，是的。小女生，但是仍然憤怒。我回家跟母親說，“你對我做了不好的事”。這不是非洲文化會做的事情，指著你的母親，可是，我當時可接受任何後果。“你對我做了不好的事情。”她說，“Khadija，你在說什麼？”她習慣了我發牢騷我說，“幾年前，你對我做了割禮。你把屬於我的東西割掉了。”她說，“是的。我做是為了你好。這是為你著想。你外婆對我做了，我對你做了。這讓你成為一個女人。”我說，“怎麼會？”她說，“你被賦予了力量，Khadija.你下面會覺得癢嗎？”我說，“不會，為什麼我會覺得癢？”她說，“看，如果你沒被行割禮，你下面就會覺得癢。沒有行割禮的女人下面總是癢的。而且她們會和每個人上床。你不會隨便和任何人上床。”我想，她對“賦予力量”的定義還真是奇怪。（笑）我們的第一次談話就這樣結束了。我回到學校那個年代我們有雜誌“Dolly 和女友""雜誌裡總有一個部分是封起來的。誰記得這些封起來的部分？不雅的內容，你知道的對啊，我愛這部分。（笑）總是會有一篇文章關於快感男女關係，當然，還有性。但是這類文章總是基於你有陰蒂我當時想，這不合適我。這不是在講我這樣的人。我沒有陰蒂。我看電視，上面那些女人如此呻吟”噢！噢！“我想，這些該死的有陰蒂的人。（笑）沒有陰蒂的女人要如何生活？我想要知道。我也想要那樣呻吟—”噢！噢！“這些沒發生過。 所以我再回家跟母親說，”Dolly和女友“說，我應該得到快感，我應該要有性高潮，而白種男人應該弄清楚要怎麼找到陰蒂。”顯然，白種男人常常找不到陰蒂。（笑）聲明一下，不是我說的。是Dolly說的。我當時心裡有個笑話，“我會嫁個一個白人。他跟我就沒這個問題。”(笑）我對母親說，“Dolly和女友“說，我應該有快感，你知道你剝奪了我的什麼嗎？你否定了我的什麼權利嗎？你在最神聖的方面侵略了我。我想要快感。我也想要性慾繚繞，該死的。”然後她說，“誰是Dolly和女友？”她們是你的新朋友嗎，Khadija？“我說，”不，不是。那是本雜誌，媽，雜誌。“ 她不懂了。我們來自兩個不同的世界。她長大的時候，沒有陰蒂是正常的事情。人們慶祝它。我是一個非裔澳大利亞女孩。我生活在一個以陰蒂為中心的社會。所有事情都和這該死的陰蒂有關！而我卻沒有！這讓我非常生氣。 所以，當我度過了這段奇怪的，憤怒痛苦和迷惑的階段，我記得與我的心理師碰面是的，我是個有心理治療師的非洲人看吧我對她說，”我當時13歲，還是個孩子。我試著適應一個新的國家，我要應付種族主義和歧視，英語是我的第三種語言，然後還有這個。""我告訴她，“我覺得自己不是個女人，因為發生的事情。我覺得不完整。我會變成性冷感嗎？“因為從我對女性外陰殘割的了解，其目的就是要控制女人的性慾。這樣我們就不會有性慾。我說，”我現在是性冷淡嗎？我會餘生都不想要有性生活嗎，無法享受性？“她無法回答我的問題，所以這些問題沒有答案。 在我14歲開始來月經的時候，因為外陰切割，我沒有正常的月經。我的月經很多，很久而且非常痛。他們告訴我，我有肌瘤。它們就像小球在那裡。其中一個包住了我的一個卵巢。 然後大新聞來了，”我們認為你大概無法懷孕了，Khadija。“再一次，我又成為憤怒的女黑人。 我回家對母親說，”你的所作所為，無論你的辯護理由是什麼“——因為她覺得她是因為愛我才做的——”你因為愛我而對我做的事情讓我受傷，並且傷害了我。“你還有什麼好說的？“她說，“我做了一個母親不得不做的。”我還在等待她道歉，順便說 之後我結婚了。再一次——女性外陰殘割像是一個禮物不停地給予。你馬上就明白了。性生活非常痛苦。每次都很痛。當然，我意識到，他們說“你無法懷孕。”我想，“哇，這就是我的存在？這就是生命的意義嗎？”我很驕傲地告訴你，5個月前，我被告知懷孕了。（掌聲） 我是個幸運的女孩。有非常多的經歷過外陰切割的女性無法生育。我知道一個9歲的小女孩有失禁，長期的感染，疼痛。這就是那個禮物。不停地給予。它影響你生活的每一個領域，而這一切發生就是因為我是個女人出生在錯誤的地方。這就是為什麼這些會發生在我身上。 我重新引導了那些所有的憤怒，痛苦，使其成為公開維護因為我需要我的痛苦有所值。所以，我成為了一個叫做“澳大利亞無女性外陰殘割”組織的理事。你沒聽錯。為什麼要叫“澳大利亞無女性外陰殘割”？女性外陰殘割 也在澳大利亞。兩天前，我必須打電話給兒童保護聯盟，因為在澳大利亞的某個地方，有個4歲的女孩她的母親正準備對她進行外陰切割。那個小孩在幼稚園。讓它沉澱一下：4歲。幾個月前，我遇到一位女士她先生是馬來西亞人。她先生有天回到家說他要帶他們的女兒們回去馬來西亞去切掉她們的陰蒂。她說，“為什麼？”他說它們很髒。然後她說，“那你娶了我。”他說，“噢，這是我們的文化信仰。”然後他們開始了討論其間她對他說，“除非我死了，你才可能對我的女兒做那樣的事。”可是，想像如果這位女性不知道什麼是女性外陰殘割，如果他們從來沒有過那樣的對話？她的孩子就會飛去馬來西亞然後回來後，人生完全改變。你知道需要多少錢來應對這樣的問題嗎？在澳大利亞，每天有3個小孩有受到外陰切割的危險。這是澳大利亞的問題，各位。這不是非洲的問題。不是中東的問題。也不關白色或黑色人種，這個問題沒有顏色，是每個人都問題。女性外陰殘割是虐待兒童。是對女性的暴力。它宣稱了女性沒有享受性快感的權利。它宣稱我們對我們自己的身體沒有權利。我要對它說”錯“”放屁“這是我要對它說的。（掌聲） 我很驕傲地說我在為終結女性外陰殘割盡力你會做什麼呢？在你的教室裡或許就有一個孩子有被切割的危險或許到你醫院就醫的病人就有危險受到切割。這是現實。即使是在我們熱愛的澳大利亞，這世界上最美的地方，兒童被虐待，因為文化的關係。文化不應該成為虐待兒童的辯詞我要在坐的每一位把女性外陰殘割當成是你自己的問題。讓它與個人相關（受害者）可能是你的女兒，你的姐妹，你的表姐妹 我無法獨自與女性外陰殘割戰鬥。我可以試，但我做不到。所以，我對你的請求，請加入我。在Change.org 網上為我的請願書簽名輸入Khadija，我的名字，就會出現，請簽名。請願書的目的是為FGM的受害者尋求支持並保護在成長的那些女孩不受如此邪惡的迫害，因為每一個孩子都有權利享受快樂。每一個孩子都有權利保持她們身體的完整。該死的，每個孩子都有權利有陰蒂。請加入我來一起終結這個行為。 我最愛的名言是，”當一部分好人無所作為時，邪惡就會戰勝。“你會讓女性外陰殘割這個邪惡在澳大利亞戰勝嗎？我不這樣認為，請加入我確保這個邪惡在我們這一代終止。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
