Talk	en	zh-tw
khalida_brohi_how_i_work_to_protect_women_from_honor_killings	"While preparing for my talk I was reflecting on my life and trying to figure out where exactly was that moment when my journey began. A long time passed by, and I simply couldn't figure out the beginning or the middle or the end of my story. I always used to think that my beginning was one afternoon in my community when my mother had told me that I had escaped three arranged marriages by the time I was two. Or one evening when electricity had failed for eight hours in our community, and my dad sat, surrounded by all of us, telling us stories of when he was a little kid struggling to go to school while his father, who was a farmer, wanted him to work in the fields with him. Or that dark night when I was 16 when three little kids had come to me and they whispered in my ear that my friend was murdered in something called the honor killings. But then I realized that, as much as I know that these moments have contributed on my journey, they have influenced my journey but they have not been the beginning of it, but the true beginning of my journey was in front of a mud house in upper Sindh of Pakistan, where my father held the hand of my 14-year-old mother and they decided to walk out of the village to go to a town where they could send their kids to school. In a way, I feel like my life is kind of a result of some wise choices and decisions they've made. And just like that, another of their decisions was to keep me and my siblings connected to our roots. While we were living in a community I fondly remember as called Ribabad, which means community of the poor, my dad made sure that we also had a house in our rural homeland. I come from an indigenous tribe in the mountains of Balochistan called Brahui. Brahui, or Brohi, means mountain dweller, and it is also my language. Thanks to my father's very strict rules about connecting to our customs, I had to live a beautiful life of songs,  cultures, traditions, stories, mountains, and a lot of sheep. But then, living in two extremes between the traditions  of my culture, of my village, and then modern education in my school wasn't easy. I was aware that I was the only girl who got to have such freedom, and I was guilty of it. While going to school in Karachi and Hyderabad, a lot of my cousins and childhood friends were getting married off, some to older men, some in exchange, some even as second wives. I got to see the beautiful tradition and its magic fade in front of me when I saw that the birth of a girl child was celebrated with sadness, when women were told to have patience as their main virtue. Up until I was 16, I healed my sadness by crying, mostly at nights  when everyone would sleep and I would sob in my pillow, until that one night  when I found out my friend was killed in the name of honor. Honor killings is a custom where men and women are suspected of having relationships before or outside of the marriage, and they're killed by their family for it. Usually the killer is the brother or father or the uncle in the family. The U.N. reports there are about 1,000 honor murders every year in Pakistan, and these are only the reported cases. A custom that kills did not make any sense to me, and I knew I had to do something about it this time. I was not going to cry myself to sleep. I was going to do something, anything, to stop it. I was 16 — I started writing poetry and going door to door telling everybody about honor killings and why it happens, why it should be stopped, and raising awareness about it until I actually found a much, much  better way to handle this issue. In those days, we were living in a very small, one-roomed house in Karachi. Every year, during the monsoon seasons, our house would flood up with water — rainwater and sewage — and my mom and dad would be taking the water out. In those days, my dad brought home a huge machine, a computer. It was so big it looked as if it was going to take up half of the only room we had, and had so many pieces and wires that needed to be connected. But it was still the most exciting thing that has ever happened to me and my sisters. My oldest brother Ali got to be in charge of taking care of the computer, and all of us were given 10 to 15 minutes every day to use it. Being the oldest of eight kids, I got to use it the last, and that was after I had washed the dishes, cleaned the house, made dinner with my mom, and put blankets on the floor for everyone to sleep, and after that,  I would run to the computer, connect it to the Internet, and have pure joy and wonder for 10 to 15 minutes. In those days, I had discovered a website called Joogle. [Google] (Laughter) In my frantic wish to do something about this custom, I made use of Google and discovered Facebook, a website where people can connect to anyone around the world, and so, from my very tiny, cement-roofed room in Karachi, I connected with people in the U.K., the U.S., Australia and Canada, and created a campaign called WAKE UP Campaign against Honor Killings. It became enormous in just a few months. I got a lot of support from all around the world. Media was connecting to us. A lot of people were reaching out trying to raise awareness with us. It became so big that it went from online to the streets of my hometown, where we would do rallies and strikes trying to change the policies  in Pakistan for women's support. And while I thought everything was perfect, my team — which was basically my friends and neighbors at that time — thought everything was going so well, we had no idea a big opposition was coming to us. My community stood up against us, saying we were spreading un-Islamic behavior. We were challenging centuries-old customs in those communities. I remember my father receiving anonymous letters saying, ""Your daughter  is spreading Western culture in the honorable societies."" Our car was stoned at one point. One day I went to the office and found our metal signboard wrinkled and broken as if a lot of people had been hitting it with something heavy. Things got so bad that I had to hide myself in many ways. I would put up the windows of the car, veil my face, not speak while I was in public, but eventually situations got worse when my life was threatened, and I had to leave, back to Karachi, and our actions stopped. Back in Karachi, as an 18-year-old, I thought this was the biggest failure of my entire life. I was devastated. As a teenager, I was blaming myself for everything that happened. And it turns out, when we started reflecting, we did realize that it was actually me and my team's fault. There were two big reasons why our campaign had failed big time. One of those, the first reason, is we were standing against core values of people. We were saying no to something that was very important to them, challenging their code of honor, and hurting them deeply in the process. And number two, which was very important for me to learn, and amazing, and surprising for me to learn, was that we were not including the true heroes who should be fighting for themselves. The women in the villages had no idea we were fighting for them in the streets. Every time I would go back, I would find my cousins and friends with scarves on their faces, and I would ask, ""What happened?"" And they'd be like,  ""Our husbands beat us."" But we are working in the streets for you! We are changing the policies. How is that not impacting their life? So then we found out something which was very amazing for us. The policies of a country do not necessarily always affect the tribal and rural communities. It was devastating — like, oh, we can't actually do something about this? And we found out there's a huge gap when it comes to official policies and the real truth on the ground. So this time, we were like, we are going to do something different. We are going to use strategy, and we are going to go back and apologize. Yes, apologize. We went back to the communities and we said we are  very ashamed of what we did. We are here to apologize, and in fact, we are here to make it up to you. How do we do that? We are going to promote three of your main cultures. We know that it's music, language, and embroidery. Nobody believed us. Nobody wanted to work with us. It took a lot of convincing and discussions with these communities until they agreed that we are going to promote their language by making a booklet of their stories, fables and old tales in the tribe, and we would promote their music by making a CD of the songs from the tribe, and some drumbeating. And the third, which was my favorite, was we would promote their embroidery by making a center in the village where women would come every day to make embroidery. And so it began. We worked with one village, and we started our first center. It was a beautiful day. We started the center. Women were coming to make embroidery, and going through a life-changing process of education, learning about their rights, what Islam says about their rights, and enterprise development, how they can create money, and then how they can create money from money, how they can fight the customs that have been destroying their lives from so many centuries, because in Islam, in reality, women are supposed to be shoulder to shoulder with men. Women have so much status that we have not been hearing, that they have not been hearing, and we needed to tell them that they need to know where their rights are and how to take them by themselves, because they can do it and we can't. So this was the model which actually came out — very amazing. Through embroidery we were promoting their traditions. We went into the village. We would mobilize the community. We would make a center inside where 30 women will come for six months to learn about value addition of traditional embroidery, enterprise development, life skills and basic education, and about their rights and how to say no to those customs and how to stand as leaders for themselves and the society. After six months, we would connect these women to loans and to markets where they can become local entrepreneurs in their communities. We soon called this project Sughar. Sughar is a local word used in many, many languages in Pakistan. It means skilled and confident women. I truly believe, to create women leaders, there's only one thing you have to do: Just let them know that they have what it takes to be a leader. These women you see here, they have strong skills and potential to be leaders. All we had to do was remove the barriers that surrounded them, and that's what we decided to do. But then while we were thinking everything was going well, once again everything was fantastic, we found our next setback: A lot of men started seeing the visible changes in their wife. She's speaking more, she's making decisions — oh my gosh, she's handling  everything in the house. They stopped them from coming to the centers, and this time, we were like, okay, time for strategy two. We went to the fashion  industry in Pakistan and decided to do research about what happens there. Turns out the fashion industry in Pakistan is very strong and growing day by day, but there is less contribution from the tribal areas and to the tribal areas, especially women. So we decided to launch our first ever tribal women's very own fashion brand, which is now called Nomads. And so women started earning more, they started contributing more financially to the house, and men had to think again before saying no to them when they were coming to the centers. (Applause) Thank you, thank you. In 2013, we launched our first Sughar Hub instead of a center. We partnered with TripAdvisor and created a cement hall in the middle of a village and invited so many other organizations to work over there. We created this platform for the nonprofits so they can touch and work on the other issues that Sughar is not working on, which would be an easy place  for them to give trainings, use it as a farmer school, even as a marketplace, and anything they want to use it for, and they have been doing really amazingly. And so far, we have been able to support 900 women in 24 villages around Pakistan. (Applause) But that's actually not what I want. My dream is to reach out to one million women in the next 10 years, and to make sure that happens, this year we launched Sughar Foundation in the U.S. It is not just going to fund Sughar but many other organizations in Pakistan to replicate the idea and to find even more innovative ways to unleash the rural women's potential in Pakistan. Thank you so much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chris Anderson: Khalida, you are quite the force of nature. I mean, this story, in many ways, just seems beyond belief. It's incredible that someone so young could do achieve this much through so much force and ingenuity. So I guess one question: This is a spectacular dream to reach out and empower a million women — how much of the current  success depends on you, the force of this magnetic personality? How does it scale? Khalida Brohi: I think my job is to give the inspiration out, give my dream out. I can't teach how to do it, because there are so many different ways. We have been experimenting with three ways only. There are a hundred different ways to unleash potential in women. I would just give the inspiration and that's my job. I will keep doing it. Sughar will still be growing. We are planning to reach out to two more villages, and soon I believe  we will be scaling out of Pakistan into South Asia and beyond. CA: I love that when you talked about your team in the talk, I mean, you were all 18 at the time. What did this team look like? This was school friends, right? KB: Do people here believe that I'm at an age where I'm supposed to be a grandmother in my village? My mom was married at nine, and I am the oldest woman not married and not doing anything in my life in my village. CA: Wait, wait, wait, not doing anything? KB: No. CA: You're right. KB: People feel sorry for me, a lot of times. CA: But how much time are you spending now actually back in Balochistan? KB: I live over there. We live between, still, Karachi and Balochistan. My siblings are all going to school. I am still the oldest of eight siblings. CA: But what you're doing is definitely threatening to some people there. How do you handle safety? Do you feel safe? Are there issues there? KB: This question has come to me a lot of times before, and I feel like the word ""fear"" just comes to me and then drops, but there is one fear that I have that is different from that. The fear is that if I get killed, what would happen to the people who love me so much? My mom waits for me till late at night that I should come home. My sisters want to learn so much from me, and there are many, many girls in my community who want to talk to me and ask me different things, and I recently got engaged. (Laughs) (Applause) CA: Is he here? You've got to stand up. (Applause) KB: Escaping arranged marriages, I chose my own husband across the world in L.A., a really different world. I had to fight for a whole year. That's totally a different story. But I think that's the only thing that I'm afraid of, and I don't want my mom to not see anyone when she waits in the night. CA: So people who want to help you on their way, they can go on, they can maybe buy some of these clothes that you're bringing over that are actually made, the embroidery is done back in Balochistan? KB: Yeah. CA: Or they can get involved in the foundation. KB: Definitely. We are looking for as many people as we can, because now that the foundation's in the beginning process, I am trying to learn a lot about how to operate, how to get funding or reach out to more organizations, and especially in the e-commerce, which is very new for me. I mean, I am not a fashion person, believe me. CA: Well, it's been incredible to have you here. Please go on being courageous, go on being smart, and please stay safe. KB: Thank you so much. CA: Thank you, Khalida. (Applause)"	"當我在準備這場演講時，也一併思考我的人生，試著去找出我的人生旅程究竟是從何時開始。過了一段長久時間，我仍然無法搞清楚我故事的開始、過程或結束。我總習慣地認為我故事的開始是在一個社區的下午我媽告訴我我二歲時，逃過三次被安排好的婚姻。或是，有一個晚上，社區停電 8 個小時，我爸爸坐著，我們每個人圍繞在他身邊，他講了故事，當他還是個小男孩時，努力要到學校上課我的阿公是個農夫，他要我父親一起下田幫忙。或是，我 16 歲時在一個漆黑的夜晚三個小孩跑來找我，在我耳邊小聲地說我的朋友被一種稱為「名譽處決」的罪名而遭到謀殺。 當時我了解到，就我所知，這時刻（所發生的事）對我的旅程已造成影響，他們已影響我的旅程但它不是一個開始，我的旅程真正的開始是在一間泥漿房的前面它是在巴基斯坦信德的北部，我的父親握著 14 歲母親的手他們決定離開這個村莊到一個可以讓子女上學的城市。在某種程度上，我感覺我的人生是他們明智選擇和決定的結果。 就如這樣，他們所做的其他決定讓我和我的兄弟姐妹不會忘本。我們住在一個社區我記得叫利巴巴，意思是窮人社區，我父親確定在農村的故鄉有一個房子。我來自俾路支省位於山上的土著部落叫做布拉輝族。布拉輝族或布羅希，意思是山區居民，也是我使用的語言。感謝老爸對習俗延續有非常嚴格的要求,我必需生活在有歌聲，文化，傳統，故事，山林，還有羊群的美好生活中。但那時，生活在兩種極端不同的生活介於村莊的傳統文化和學校的現代化教育實在是一件不容易的事。我發現我是唯一的女孩，可以獲得如此自由，這使我有罪惡感。當我到卡拉奇和海德拉巴上學，我的堂表姊妹和兒時朋友大都已經結婚，有的是嫁給年紀較大的男人，有的是作為交換，有的甚至是當作第二個老婆，我看到美麗的傳統，它的神奇魔力消失在我眼前當我看到一個女孩的出生是以,悲傷來迎接，女人被告知，忍耐是重要的美德。 一直到我 16 歲，我以哭泣來治療我的悲傷，在大家都進入夢郷的夜晚我哭濕了枕頭，直到有一天晚上，我得知我的朋友以榮譽之名被殺害。 「名譽處決」是一種習俗當男人和女人在婚前或婚姻之外被懷疑有關係，被他們的家庭成員以此之名殺害。通常殺害者是家裡的兄弟，父親或伯叔。聯合國的報告指出，每年在巴基斯坦大約有 1000 人名譽謀殺事件，這只是有被報導出來的案件。 以風俗殺人，我一點也無法理解，我知道關於這件事，這次我必須做點什麼，我不要再含著眼淚入眠。我要以各種方式，去阻止這件事。我 16 歲開始寫詩挨家挨戶告訴每一個人有關「名譽處決」為什麼會發生這種事，為什麼必需要阻止它，以及提高認同度直到我發現一個更好方法去處理這個問題。 當時，我們住在卡拉奇一個非常小，一個房間的房子。每年的雨季，我們的房子會淹大水—雨水和污水混雜在一起—我的父母要將水弄出屋外，當年，我爸帶回一台很大的機器那是一部電腦。這台電腦的體積很大，看起來好像佔據這個僅有的房間一半面積，而且必須把一些零組件和電線連接起來。電腦是有史以來。最令人興奮的事對我和我的姐妹們來說。我的大弟阿力負責保管這台電腦，每個人，每天可以使用這台電腦 10 至 15 分鐘。身為家中 8 個小孩的老大，我是最後一個使用電腦，而且在我洗了碗盤，打掃房間，與母親做了晚餐，把每人睡覺用的毯子鋪在地板上，做完這些事以後，我會衝到電腦前面，連上網路，單純地享受這10 到 15 分鐘的上網時間。 當年，我發現一個網站叫 ""Joogle""。[谷歌]（笑聲）我好希望針對這個習俗去做一些事情，我使用谷歌後，發現臉書，臉書這網站可連結世界上的任何一個人，在卡拉奇狹小，水泥屋頂的房間裡我與英國，美國，澳洲，加拿的人連繫，而且成立位一個活動叫做「覺醒活動」來對抗「名譽處決」。在幾個月之內，這個活動變得很大。我得到來自世界各地的支持。媒體和我們連繫。許多人伸出援手，與我們一起提高這個問題的認知。這個活動變得很大，從網路到我家鄉的街頭。我們集會和罷工為了獲得女性的支持試圖改變巴基斯坦的政策。當我想事情進行的很順利，我的團隊 — 基本上　當時是我的朋友，我的鄰居 —也是認為事情進行的很順利，我沒想到一個反對的意見衝著我們來。 我們的社區居民站起來反對我們，說我們在散播非伊斯蘭行為。我們在社區裡挑戰歷史悠久的習俗。我記得我父親收到匿名信信上寫說：你的女兒在光榮的社會散播西方文化。我們車子一度被砸。有一天我進辦公室，發現金屬作的招牌皺起來並破裂，好像多人以重物敲擊。事情變得如此糟糕，我必須以各種方式隱藏自己。我要搖起車窗，當我在公共場合時我遮住我的臉，不說話，事情甚至變得更糟我的生活受到威脅，所以我必須離開，回到卡拉奇，並暫停所有活動。 回到卡拉奇時，我 18 歲，我想這是我人生中最大的挫敗。我身心交瘁青少年的我，為所發生的事情責怪我自己。結果是，當我們反省自身就更加了解到，這確實是我和我團隊的錯。 有二大理由說明了我們團隊非常失敗。其中第一個原因是，我們違反人類的核心價值。將人們認為重要的事物看得一聞不值，挑戰人們的榮譽準則，在過程上，對他們傷害極深。第二個原因是，這點對我的學習非常重要，令我很驚訝，訝異地去學習，我們並沒有把真正的英雄納入團隊那些會為自己挺身而出的人。村莊的婦女們不曉得我們站在街上是為她們而戰。‎每次我回家鄉去，看到我堂表姐妹和朋友臉上的疤，我會問：這是怎麼回事？他們的回答會是，「我老公打我」但我們站在街上為你討公道！我們改變策略。這怎會不改變他們的生活？ 然後發現了令我們感到驚訝的事。國家的政策不總是必然地影響部落及農村社區。這是驚人的，像是我們真的無法對此事做些改變？我們發現有一個很大的差異這差異來自官方的政策與以真理為理由之間的差異。 所以這一次，我們做了和以往不同的事。我們運用策略，我們要回去並且道歉。是的，道歉。我們回到社區並且說我們為所做所為感到可恥。在這裡向大家道歉，實際上，我們要和你們重修舊好。我們為何要這麼做？我們要推廣三個主要的文化。也就是音樂，語言和刺繡。 沒人相信我們。沒有人要和我們一起執行。在社區裡經過許多的說服和討論直到他們同意我們是要推廣他們的語言製作一本有關於他們故事的手冊神話、部落的古老傳說，再來要推廣音樂製作部落的音樂光碟，和一些宣傳廣告，再來第三項，也是我最喜歡的，就是在村莊成立一個中心推廣刺繡婦女每天來這裡刺繡。 所以就這樣開始。我們從一個村莊開始，並以它為起始點。在一個天氣晴朗的日子。我們啟動這個中心。婦女們來這裡刺繡，透過教育的程序來改變生活，來了解她們的權利，伊斯蘭教賦予和承認她們的權利.和企業發展，她們如何開闢財源，如何以錢去賺錢，如何打破幾世紀來破壞她們生活的風俗習慣，因為在伊斯蘭國家，現實生活中，女人應該要與男人齊心協力地。女人佔有相當重要的地位那是她們從未聽過的，她們從未聽過的，我們必須要告訴她們她們必須要知道她們的權利是什麼如何自行使用權利，因為她們可以做，但是我們不行。 這即是將實現的模型真是太奇妙了。透過刺繡我們提升他們的傳統思考。我們深入村莊。我們動員社區。我們設立一個中心站裡面有 30 個婦女學習六個月的傳統刺繡的附加價值，企業發展，生活技能和基本教育，還有她們的權利，如何向那些惡性習俗說不如何為自己以及社會站出來成為領導者。六個月之後，我們連絡這些婦女去貸款，去做行銷成為社區裡的本地企業家。 很快地，我們稱這個計劃為「蘇葛」。「蘇葛」是一種方言在巴基斯坦的很多語言有使用到。它意思是有技能，有自信的女人。我真的相信，成為女性領導者只必須做一件事：就是讓他們了解，她們有怎樣才能成為一個領導者的想法。你所看到的這些女人，她們有強大的技能有潛力成為領導者。我們所要做的事是除去困住她們的障礙，這是我們決定要做的事。 我們想如果事情進行順利的話，一切事情再次進行順利，我們發現下一個難題：許多男性開始察覺到他們妻子明顯的改變。他們的妻子說更多的話，也做決策—喔天啊！妻子在家裡主導一切。男性會阻止妻子成為家庭核心，這時，我們高興地，好，是使用策略二的時候。我們到到巴基斯坦的時尚圈決定去研究那裡發生了什麼事情。結果是巴基斯坦的時尚界非常蓬勃且一天天地成長，但很少來自部落的貢獻特別是部落的婦女。 所以我們決定展開我們第一次部落婦女的時尚品牌，稱為「游牧民族」。所以婦女開始賺更多錢，婦女開始對家庭貢獻更多的金錢。男人必須再想想當他們反對女人到中心學習。 （掌聲）謝謝，謝謝。 在 2013 年，開辦第一個「蘇葛」中心取代一個中心。我們與「到到網」合作在村莊的中心點建一個水泥大廳邀請很多公司組織來這裡進駐。我們以非營利的方式建立這個平台他們可以接觸或從事「蘇葛」沒有涉及到的業務，這是一個提供教育訓練的好地坊方，可以當作是農夫學校，甚至是作為市集用途，可以作為任何用途的場所，他們已做的相當出色。到目前為止，已經資助九百個婦女遍及巴基斯坦的 24 個村莊。（掌聲） 但這不是我真正想要的成果。我的夢想是 10 年內資助一百萬個婦女，以確保夢想可以達成。今年我們在美國成立「蘇葛」基金會。這不只是要為「蘇葛」募款並且可以在巴基斯坦的其他組織複製這個構想去發現更多的創新方法去發覺巴基斯坦農村婦女的潛能。 非常感謝。 （掌聲）謝謝。謝謝。謝謝。 克里斯·安德森：哈立達，你徹底發輝你的潛能。我的意思是，這個故事，從許多方面來說，似乎令人難以置信。有人在如此年輕時透過影響力和足智多謀能夠做到這麼多這是令人難以置信。所以我想了一個問題：要達成這個偉大的夢想使一百萬個婦人擁有權力—目前的成功有多大的程度取決於你，人格魅力的影響力？是如何展開行動的？哈立達·布羅希：我想我的工作是紿予靈感，讓我完成夢想。我無法教導如何去做，因為有太多不同的方法。我們只使用了三種方法。有上百種不同的方法發現女人的潛力。我只有給予靈感這也是我的工作。我會繼續做下去，「蘇葛」仍然持續成長中。我們計劃再增加二個村落，我相信很快的擴展到巴基斯坦以外的地方南亞以及更遠的地方。 安德森：我喜歡你當你在演講中談到你的團隊，我的意思是，你當時十八歲。是如何形成你的團隊？他們都是學校認識的朋友，對嗎？ 布羅希：這裡的人認為，我當時的年紀，在村莊裡，應該是要當祖母了，我媽媽九歲結婚，而我是最老的未婚女性在我的人生當中，我在村莊裡沒有做任何事情。 安德森：等等，等等，沒有做任何事情？ 布羅希：不。安德森：你說得對。 布羅希：人們為我感到遺憾，很多次了。 安德森：現在你有多少時間實際上是回到俾路支省住？布羅希：我住在那裡。我們現在仍然住在卡拉奇和俾路支省我的兄弟姐妹上學去。我仍然是八個兄弟姐妹中年紀最大的。 安德森：你正在做的事情，絕對是威脅到那裡的一些人。你如何處理安全問題？你感到安全嗎？安全性是個問題嗎？ 布羅希：以前曾經多次碰到這個問題。我感覺「恐懼」這個字，襲上心頭然後又消失，但我有一種不同的恐懼，這種恐懼是，如果我被殺了，對愛我之至的人會造成什麼影響？我應該要回家，我媽會等我到深夜。我的姐妹要從我身上學到許多東西，還有很多，很多社區的女孩子們想和我說話問我各式各樣的問題，而我最近剛訂婚（笑）（掌聲） 安德森：他在嗎？你得站起來給大家看看。（掌聲） 布羅希：逃過被安排的婚姻，我選擇我自己的老公他在世界的另一端洛杉磯，是一個完全不同的世界。我必須為此奮鬥一整年，這又是一個完全不同的故事。我想這是我唯一擔心害怕的事，我不要我媽在半夜等不到我。 安德森：所以人們以他們的方式幫助你，他們可以繼續往前走，他們或些買些你所帶來的衣服是在俾路支省，刺繡做成的衣服？ 布羅希：是的 安德森：或是他們可以加入這個基金會。 布羅希：的確是。我們正努力地找人一起參與。因為現在這個基金會是在開始的階段，我正努力多方學習運作這個組織，如何募得資金，或接觸到更多的組織，特別是電子商務這一塊，對我來說是新的領域，我的意思是，相信我，我不是一個追求時尚的人。 安德森：好的，難以置信你在這裡與我們分享你的故事。請勇敢地，聰明的且以安全為原則地持續走下去， 布羅希：非常謝謝你。安德森：謝謝你，哈立達。（掌聲）"
