Talk	en	zh-tw
kimberle_crenshaw_the_urgency_of_intersectionality	"I'd like to try something new. Those of you who are able, please stand up. OK, so I'm going to name some names. When you hear a name that you don't recognize, you can't tell me anything about them, I'd like you to take a seat and stay seated. The last person standing, we're going to see what they know. OK? (Laughter) All right. Eric Garner. Mike Brown. Tamir Rice. Freddie Gray. So those of you who are still standing, I'd like you to turn around and take a look. I'd say half to most of the people are still standing. So let's continue. Michelle Cusseaux. Tanisha Anderson. Aura Rosser. Meagan Hockaday. So if we look around again, there are about four people still standing, and actually I'm not going to put you on the spot. I just say that to encourage transparency, so you can be seated. (Laughter) So those of you who recognized the first group of names know that these were African-Americans who have been killed by the police over the last two and a half years. What you may not know is that the other list is also African-Americans who have been killed within the last two years. Only one thing distinguishes the names that you know from the names that you don't know: gender. So let me first let you know that there's nothing at all distinct about this audience that explains the pattern of recognition that we've just seen. I've done this exercise dozens of times around the country. I've done it to women's rights organizations. I've done it with civil rights groups. I've done it with professors. I've done it with students. I've done it with psychologists. I've done it with sociologists. I've done it even with progressive members of Congress. And everywhere, the awareness of the level of police violence that black women experience is exceedingly low. Now, it is surprising, isn't it, that this would be the case. I mean, there are two issues involved here. There's police violence against African-Americans, and there's violence against women, two issues that have been talked about a lot lately. But when we think about who is implicated by these problems, when we think about who is victimized by these problems, the names of these black women never come to mind. Now, communications experts tell us that when facts do not fit with the available frames, people have a difficult time incorporating new facts into their way of thinking about a problem. These women's names have slipped through our consciousness because there are no frames for us to see them, no frames for us to remember them, no frames for us to hold them. As a consequence, reporters don't lead with them, policymakers don't think about them, and politicians aren't encouraged or demanded that they speak to them. Now, you might ask, why does a frame matter? I mean, after all, an issue that affects black people and an issue that affects women, wouldn't that necessarily include black people who are women and women who are black people? Well, the simple answer is that this is a trickle-down approach to social justice, and many times it just doesn't work. Without frames that allow us to see how social problems impact all the members of a targeted group, many will fall through the cracks of our movements, left to suffer in virtual isolation. But it doesn't have to be this way. Many years ago, I began to use the term ""intersectionality"" to deal with the fact that many of our social justice problems like racism and sexism are often overlapping, creating multiple levels of social injustice. Now, the experience that gave rise to intersectionality was my chance encounter with a woman named Emma DeGraffenreid. Emma DeGraffenreid was an African-American woman, a working wife and a mother. I actually read about Emma's story from the pages of a legal opinion written by a judge who had dismissed Emma's claim of race and gender discrimination against a local car manufacturing plant. Emma, like so many African-American women, sought better employment for her family and for others. She wanted to create a better life for her children and for her family. But she applied for a job, and she was not hired, and she believed that she was not hired because she was a black woman. Now, the judge in question dismissed Emma's suit, and the argument for dismissing the suit was that the employer did hire African-Americans and the employer hired women. The real problem, though, that the judge was not willing to acknowledge was what Emma was actually trying to say, that the African-Americans that were hired, usually for industrial jobs, maintenance jobs, were all men. And the women that were hired, usually for secretarial or front-office work, were all white. Only if the court was able to see how these policies came together would he be able to see the double discrimination that Emma DeGraffenreid was facing. But the court refused to allow Emma to put two causes of action together to tell her story because he believed that, by allowing her to do that, she would be able to have preferential treatment. She would have an advantage by having two swings at the bat, when African-American men and white women only had one swing at the bat. But of course, neither African-American men or white women needed to combine a race and gender discrimination claim to tell the story of the discrimination they were experiencing. Why wasn't the real unfairness law's refusal to protect African-American women simply because their experiences weren't exactly the same as white women and African-American men? Rather than broadening the frame to include African-American women, the court simply tossed their case completely out of court. Now, as a student of antidiscrimination law, as a feminist, as an antiracist, I was struck by this case. It felt to me like injustice squared. So first of all, black women weren't allowed to work at the plant. Second of all, the court doubled down on this exclusion by making it legally inconsequential. And to boot, there was no name for this problem. And we all know that, where there's no name for a problem, you can't see a problem, and when you can't see a problem, you pretty much can't solve it. Many years later, I had come to recognize that the problem that Emma was facing was a framing problem. The frame that the court was using to see gender discrimination or to see race discrimination was partial, and it was distorting. For me, the challenge that I faced was trying to figure out whether there was an alternative narrative, a prism that would allow us to see Emma's dilemma, a prism that would allow us to rescue her from the cracks in the law, that would allow judges to see her story. So it occurred to me, maybe a simple analogy to an intersection might allow judges to better see Emma's dilemma. So if we think about this intersection, the roads to the intersection would be the way that the workforce was structured by race and by gender. And then the traffic in those roads would be the hiring policies and the other practices that ran through those roads. Now, because Emma was both black and female, she was positioned precisely where those roads overlapped, experiencing the simultaneous impact of the company's gender and race traffic. The law — the law is like that ambulance that shows up and is ready to treat Emma only if it can be shown that she was harmed on the race road or on the gender road but not where those roads intersected. So what do you call being impacted by multiple forces and then abandoned to fend for yourself? Intersectionality seemed to do it for me. I would go on to learn that African-American women, like other women of color, like other socially marginalized people all over the world, were facing all kinds of dilemmas and challenges as a consequence of intersectionality, intersections of race and gender, of heterosexism, transphobia, xenophobia, ableism, all of these social dynamics come together and create challenges that are sometimes quite unique. But in the same way that intersectionality raised our awareness to the way that black women live their lives, it also exposes the tragic circumstances under which African-American women die. Police violence against black women is very real. The level of violence that black women face is such that it's not surprising that some of them do not survive their encounters with police. Black girls as young as seven, great grandmothers as old as 95 have been killed by the police. They've been killed in their living rooms, in their bedrooms. They've been killed in their cars. They've been killed on the street. They've been killed in front of their parents and they've been killed in front of their children. They have been shot to death. They have been stomped to death. They have been suffocated to death. They have been manhandled to death. They have been tasered to death. They've been killed when they've called for help. They've been killed when they were alone, and they've been killed when they were with others. They've been killed shopping while black, driving while black, having a mental disability while black, having a domestic disturbance while black. They've even been killed being homeless while black. They've been killed talking on the cell phone, laughing with friends, sitting in a car reported as stolen and making a U-turn in front of the White House with an infant strapped in the backseat of the car. Why don't we know these stories? Why is it that their lost lives don't generate the same amount of media attention and communal outcry as the lost lives of their fallen brothers? It's time for a change. So what can we do? In 2014, the African-American Policy Forum began to demand that we ""say her name"" at rallies, at protests, at conferences, at meetings, anywhere and everywhere that state violence against black bodies is being discussed. But saying her name is not enough. We have to be willing to do more. We have to be willing to bear witness, to bear witness to the often painful realities that we would just rather not confront, the everyday violence and humiliation that many black women have had to face, black women across color, age, gender expression, sexuality and ability. So we have the opportunity right now — bearing in mind that some of the images that I'm about to share with you may be triggering for some — to collectively bear witness to some of this violence. We're going to hear the voice of the phenomenal Abby Dobson. And as we sit with these women, some who have experienced violence and some who have not survived them, we have an opportunity to reverse what happened at the beginning of this talk, when we could not stand for these women because we did not know their names. So at the end of this clip, there's going to be a roll call. Several black women's names will come up. I'd like those of you who are able to join us in saying these names as loud as you can, randomly, disorderly. Let's create a cacophony of sound to represent our intention to hold these women up, to sit with them, to bear witness to them, to bring them into the light. (Singing) Abby Dobson: Say, say her name. Say, say her name. (Audience) Shelly! (Audience) Kayla! AD: Oh, say her name. (Audience shouting names) Say, say, say her name. Say her name. For all the names I'll never know, say her name. KC: Aiyanna Stanley Jones, Janisha Fonville, Kathryn Johnston, Kayla Moore, Michelle Cusseaux, Rekia Boyd, Shelly Frey, Tarika, Yvette Smith. AD: Say her name. KC: So I said at the beginning, if we can't see a problem, we can't fix a problem. Together, we've come together to bear witness to these women's lost lives. But the time now is to move from mourning and grief to action and transformation. This is something that we can do. It's up to us. Thank you for joining us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想嘗試一個新東西，諸位如果可以的話，請站起來。好的，現在我將提到一些名字，如果你聽到一個你完全不知道的名字，你對這個人一無所知，請坐下并一直坐著。最後一位站著的人，我們將看看他究竟都知道什麼，好麼？ （笑聲） 好，艾瑞克.伽內。麥克-布朗。特米蘭-然瑟。佛萊迪-雷革。 還站著的人們，我想請你們環顧一下四周，我看還有超過半數的人還站著，那讓我們繼續。 米歇爾-庫蘭瑟。特妮莎-安德森。奧拉-羅瑟。梅根-哈克蒂。 我們再來看看，還有四位站著，但我不會給你們難堪。我只是想使這件事清晰可辨，現在你們可以坐下了。 （笑声） 所以認出了第一組名字的你們一定注意到了這些人就是在過去的兩年內，被警察殺死的非裔美國人。然而你們可能不知道的是，另一組名字也都是非裔美國人同樣在過去的兩年內被殺害。你知道的名字和你不知道的名字唯一的差別是：性別。 我想首先說明，在場的觀眾，並沒有任何個體特征，以至於可用來解釋我們剛剛所看到的認知偏差，我在全國境內做這樣的小調查已有十多次了，我在女權組織里做過，我在民權團體里做過，我給教授們做過，學生們做過。我給心理學家和社會學家做過。我甚至也給國會革新派做過。無論在哪裡，人們對於警察施加在黑女女性身上的暴力都鮮有所知。 這讓人驚奇，不是麼？這樣的情形。這牽扯到兩個問題。警察對於非裔美國人的暴力，和警察對女性的暴力，這是最近非常熱門的話題。但當我們思考，誰被這些問題所牽涉，誰是這些問題的受害者時，沒有人記起這些非裔女性的名字。 溝通專家告訴我們，當事實與既定的認知框架不符時，人們很難將新的知識融入他們對於問題的思考模式當中。這些女性的名字從我們的意識中黯然溜走是因為我們沒有這個認知框架，我們缺少一個記憶點，一個將她們融入我們認識框架的切入點。結果就是，記者不會重點強調她們，政策制定者不會去考慮她們，沒有政客被強制要求或被鼓勵去和她們溝通。 現在，你可能會問，為什麼一個認知框架如此重要？我想說，歸根結底，一個同時涉及黑人及女性的話題，難道不是必然會牽扯到黑人中的女性和女性中的黑人麼？ 簡單答案是，可以靠滲漏效應來達到社會公正（強勢群體帶動弱勢群體，譯者注）但大多數時候這都行不通。當缺乏一個認知框架使我們看到社會問題如何影響某特定群體全體時，在人們嘗試得到權益平等的運動中，許多人會失敗，黑人女性孤立無援。但事情本不至於此。 許多年前，我開始用「交叉性」這個名詞來指代這樣的問題：有關社會正義的問題如種族和性別歧視的問題其內在往往是交叉重疊的。並且產生了多重的不公現象。 提出【交叉性】的緣由，是我正好遇到了一位叫艾瑪.蒂格拉福瑞的女人。艾瑪.蒂格拉福瑞是一位非裔美国女性，她是一位有工作的妻子兼母親事實上，我實在法律意見書上讀到她的名字的，那是由一位駁回了艾瑪對於種族和性別歧視的訴訟的法官所寫的。這樁訴訟的被告是一個汽車製造廠。艾瑪，就如同許多非裔的美國婦女一樣，嘗試為她的家人和其他人尋求更好的就業機會。她希望為她的孩子和家庭創造一個更好的生活。但是她應徵了一個工作，卻沒有被雇用。她相信她沒有被雇用的原因是因為她是一位黑人婦女。 這位法官駁回了艾瑪的訴訟，而他駁回這個訴訟的理由是那個雇主有雇用非裔美國人，也有雇用婦女。雖然這位法官不願意承認，但問題的實質正是艾瑪實際上所要說的事：那些僱用非裔美國人的職位，通常是工業性、維修的工作，所僱用的都是男性。而雇用了女性的職位，通常是秘書性或服務台的工作，所僱用的都是白人女性。只有當那位法官將這兩個問題放在一起看時，他才能夠看到艾瑪所面對的雙重歧視。但是那位法官拒絕讓艾瑪將這兩件事的前因後果放在一起來敘述她的故事。因為他相信，如果他讓她如此做，她會得到優惠待遇。她會有雙重的優勢，而非裔男性和白人婦女只有一層優勢。但是，當然，無論是非裔男性及白人婦女 都無需將種族和性別歧視結合在一起來向大家講述他們所經歷的歧視。為什麼這不被當成是歧視當法律拒絕保護非裔女性這一群體只是因為她們受歧視的經歷與非裔男性或白人女性並非一模一樣難道這不是真正的不公？他們採取的不是拓寬認知框架來把非裔美國婦女囊括進去，而是將她們的案子完全拒于法庭門外。 現在，作為一名學習反歧視法律的學生，作為一位女性主義者，作為一位反種族歧視者，我被這個案子大大撼動。我感覺這就像是成倍的不公正。首先，黑人婦女不被允許在工廠工作。第二，法院通過大大降低其在法律中的重要性加強了這種排擠。 除此之外,這個問題並沒有一個屬於自己的名字。我們都知道，當一個問題沒有名字時，你就看不到問題，然後當你看不到有問題時，你當然就無法解決那個問題。 許多年後，我漸漸認識到艾瑪所面對的問題是一個認知框架的問題。法院採用看待性別歧視或者種族歧視的框架來看待這個問題，是片面的，是扭曲的。對我而言，我所面對的挑戰是我能否試著找出一個能指代這一問題的敘述，一個可以讓我們看到艾瑪的困境的視角，一個可以讓我們得以將她從法律漏洞里拯救出來的視角，以期使法官們看到她的故事。 我突然想到，或許一個簡單的交叉點的類比或許可以讓法官們更好的意識到艾瑪的困境。 所以如果我們仔細想想這個交叉點，那麼匯集與這個交叉點的路就是 由各個種族和性別所組成的勞動力構成的。 路上的交通工具就是僱傭政策以及穿行在這些道路上的其他嘗試。現在，因為艾瑪既是黑人又是女性，她的位置正好在 位於兩條路的交叉點，因此同時遭受到公司的性別和種族的碰撞。法律 －法律就像是來到現場的救護車它準備好治療艾瑪但只有當（法官）查證確認她是在種族歧視或性別歧視的路上受傷，而不是在兩條路的交叉處時。（艾瑪才能得到治療） 如果你被多重力量傷害，然後被迫放棄保護自己，這個情形你會稱之為什麼？我認為「交叉性」還不錯。 我接著得知非裔婦女，像其他有色婦女，像世界各地的其他社會邊緣的人，身為交叉性的結果，都面對種種困境和挑戰，種族和性別的交叉歧視，異性戀，變性者，仇外心理，能力主義的交叉歧視，所有這些社會歧視聚集在一起創造出有時是相當罕見的挑戰。但是以同樣方式交叉性提高了我們對於黑人婦女生活的认识，它也暴露了非裔美國女性死亡的悲劇情況。 警察對黑人婦女的暴力是很真實的。黑人婦女所面對的暴力的程度使得她們其中一些人在遇到警察時沒有活下來並不讓我們驚訝。從只有七歲的黑人女孩，到95歲的曾祖母，被警察殺死。他們有的在他們的家裡客廳被殺，或在臥室裡被殺。他們在車子裡被殺。他們在街上被殺。他們在他們的父母面前被殺他們在他們的孩子面前被殺。他們有的被槍殺致死。他們被踩死。他們被窒息死亡。他們被人處死。他們被電擊死亡。他們在呼救時被殺死。他們獨處時被殺。他們與其他人在一起時被殺。他們因為是 黑人 而在購物時被殺，因為是 黑人 而在開車時被殺，因為是心智殘障黑人而被殺，因為是有家庭糾紛的黑人而被殺。他們甚至因為是無家可歸的黑人而被殺。他們因為是在講手機的黑人而被殺，與朋友在笑，坐在被盜竊的車裡，在白宮前做U行迴轉時被殺當時還有嬰兒在車上的後座，為什麼我們不知道這些故事？為什麼他們失去的生命沒有得到和他們的兄弟的死亡同樣的的媒體關注和公共抗議？現在是該改變的時候了。 我們該如何做呢？在2014年，非洲裔美國人政策論壇開始要求我們要「說出她們的名字」在集會時，在抗議時，在會議裡，在開會時，在任何地方對黑人進行身體上的暴力正在被討論。但是只是說出她們的名字還不夠。我們必須願意做更多。我們必須願意作證，為我們我們不願面對的痛苦的現實作證，為許多黑人婦女不得不面對的日常暴力和侮辱作證橫跨顏色，年齡，性別表現，性取向和能力。我們現在有機會 －－ 記住我即將與你分享的一些圖像可能觸發一些 －－對這種暴力的感同身受。我們將要聽到非凡的艾比.道布森的歌聲。當我們和這些婦女坐在一起，一些經歷過暴力的人和一些沒有倖存的他們，我們有一個機會以扭轉在這次演講開始時講過的事，那時我們無法支持這些婦女因為我們不知道她們的名字所以在這個剪輯的結尾，會有一個名單。 幾位女性的名字會被點出。我希望如果你們可以，讓我們來說出這些名字盡你可能的大聲說，隨機的，無序的。讓我們創造一個盛大的共鳴代表我們的意圖來支持這些婦女，與她們同坐，見證他們，將她們帶回光明中。說 說出她的名字 說說出她的名字 （觀眾）雪莉！ （觀眾）肯納！ （唱）噢（觀眾念出名字）說出她的名字說 說出她的名字 說出她的名字 這所有的名字我一無所知 說出她的名字（念出各個名字） 我一無所知說出她的名字 正如我一開始所說的， 如果我們看不到一個問題，那麼我們就無法解決這個問題。讓我們一起，共同來見證，見證這些黑人女性失去的生命。但現在我們要從哀悼和悲痛中走出，我們要作出行動，作出改變。這些是我們所能做的事。一切都取決于我們。謝謝在座的各位加入我們， 謝謝。（掌聲）
