Talk	en	zh-tw
kimberley_motley_how_i_defend_the_rule_of_law	"Let me tell you a story about a little girl named Naghma. Naghma lived in a refugee camp with her parents and her eight brothers and sisters. Every morning, her father would wake up in the hopes he'd be picked for construction work, and on a good month he would earn 50 dollars. The winter was very harsh, and unfortunately, Naghma's brother died and her mother became very ill. In desperation, her father went to a neighbor to borrow 2,500 dollars. After several months of waiting, the neighbor became very impatient, and he demanded that he be paid back. Unfortunately, Naghma's father didn't have the money, and so the two men agreed to a jirga. So simply put, a jirga is a form of mediation that's used in Afghanistan's  informal justice system. It's usually presided over by religious leaders and village elders, and jirgas are often used in rural countries like Afghanistan, where there's deep-seated resentment against the formal system. At the jirga, the men sat together and they decided that the  best way to satisfy the debt would be if Naghma married the neighbor's 21-year-old son. She was six. Now, stories like Naghma's unfortunately are all too common, and from the comforts of our home, we may look at these stories as another crushing blow to women's rights. And if you watched Afghanistan on the news, you may have this view that it's a failed state. However, Afghanistan does have a legal system, and while jirgas are built on long-standing tribal customs, even in jirgas, laws are supposed to be followed, and it goes without saying that giving a child to satisfy a debt is not only grossly immoral, it's illegal. In 2008, I went to Afghanistan for a justice funded program, and I went there originally  on this nine-month program to train Afghan lawyers. In that nine months, I went around the country and I talked to hundreds of people that were locked up, and I talked to many businesses that were also operating in Afghanistan. And within these conversations, I started hearing the connections between the businesses and the people, and how laws that were meant to protect them were being underused, while gross and illegal punitive measures were overused. And so this put me on a quest for justness, and what justness means to me is using laws for their intended purpose, which is to protect. The role of laws is to protect. So as a result, I decided to  open up a private practice, and I became the first foreigner to litigate in Afghan courts. Throughout this time, I also studied many laws, I talked to many people, I read up on many cases, and I found that the lack of justness is not just a problem in Afghanistan, but it's a global problem. And while I originally shied away from representing human rights cases because I was really concerned about how it would affect me both professionally and personally, I decided that the need for justness was so great that I couldn't continue to ignore it. And so I started representing people like Naghma pro bono also. Now, since I've been in Afghanistan and since I've been an attorney for over 10 years, I've represented from CEOs  of Fortune 500 companies to ambassadors to little girls like Naghma, and with much success. And the reason for my success is very simple: I work the system from the inside out and use the laws in the ways that they're intended to be used. I find that achieving justness in places like Afghanistan is difficult, and there's three reasons. The first reason is that simply put, people are very uneducated as to what their legal rights were, and I find that this is a global problem. The second issue is that even with laws on the books, it's often superseded or ignored by tribal customs, like in the first jirga that sold Naghma off. And the third problem with achieving justness is that even with good, existing laws on the books, there aren't people or lawyers  that are willing to fight for those laws. And that's what I do: I use existing laws, often unused laws, and I work those to the benefits of my clients. We all need to create a global culture of human rights and be investors in a global  human rights economy, and by working in this mindset, we can significantly improve justice globally. Now let's get back to Naghma. Several people heard about this story, and so they contacted me because they wanted to pay the $2,500 debt. And it's not just that simple; you can't just throw money at this problem and think that it's going to disappear. That's not how it works in Afghanistan. So I told them I'd get involved, but in order to get involved,  what needed to happen is a second jirga needed to be called, a jirga of appeals. And so in order for that to happen, we needed to get the village elders together, we needed to get the tribal leaders together, the religious leaders. Naghma's father needed to agree, the neighbor needed to agree, and also his son needed to agree. And I thought, if I'm going to  get involved in this thing, then they also need to agree  that I preside over it. So, after hours of talking and tracking them down, and about 30 cups of tea, they finally agreed that we could sit down for a second jirga, and we did. And what was different about the second jirga is this time, we put the law at the center of it, and it was very important for me that they all understood that Naghma had a right to be protected. And at the end of this jirga, it was ordered by the judge that the first decision was erased, and that the $2,500 debt was satisfied, and we all signed a written order where all the men acknowledged that what they did was illegal, and if they did it again, that  they would go to prison. Most — (Applause) Thanks. And most importantly, the engagement was terminated and Naghma was free. Protecting Naghma and her right to be free protects us. Now, with my job, there's above-average amount of risks that are involved. I've been temporarily detained. I've been accused of running a brothel, accused of being a spy. I've had a grenade thrown at my office. It didn't go off, though. But I find that with my job, that the rewards far outweigh the risks, and as many risks as I take, my clients take far greater risks, because they have a lot more to lose if their cases go unheard, or worse, if they're penalized for having me as their lawyer. With every case that I take, I realize that as much as I'm standing behind my clients, that they're also standing behind me, and that's what keeps me going. Law as a point of leverage is crucial in protecting all of us. Journalists are very vital in making sure that that information is given to the public. Too often, we receive information from journalists but we forget how that information was given. This picture is a picture of the British press corps in Afghanistan. It was taken a couple of years ago by my friend David Gill. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, since 2010, there have been  thousands of journalists who have been threatened, injured, killed, detained. Too often, when we get this information, we forget who it affects or how that information is given to us. What many journalists do,  both foreign and domestic, is very remarkable, especially in places like Afghanistan, and it's important that we never forget that, because what they're protecting is not only our right to receive that information but also the freedom of the press, which is vital to a democratic society. Matt Rosenberg is a journalist in Afghanistan. He works for The New York Times, and unfortunately, a few months ago he wrote an article that displeased people in the government. As a result, he was temporarily detained and he was illegally exiled out of the country. I represent Matt, and after dealing with the government, I was able to get legal acknowledgment that in fact he was illegally exiled, and that freedom of the press does exist in Afghanistan, and there's consequences if that's not followed. And I'm happy to say that as of a few days ago, the Afghan government formally invited him back into the country and they reversed their exile order of him. (Applause) If you censor one journalist,  then it intimidates others, and soon nations are silenced. It's important that we protect our journalists and freedom of the press, because that makes governments more accountable to us and more transparent. Protecting journalists and our right to receive information protects us. Our world is changing. We live in a different world now, and what were once individual problems are really now global problems for all of us. Two weeks ago, Afghanistan had its first democratic transfer of power and elected president Ashraf Ghani, which is huge, and I'm very optimistic about him, and I'm hopeful that he'll give Afghanistan the changes that it needs, especially within the legal sector. We live in a different world. We live in a world where my  eight-year-old daughter only knows a black president. There's a great possibility that our next president will be a woman, and as she gets older, she may question, can a white guy be president? (Laughter) (Applause) Our world is changing, and  we need to change with it, and what were once individual problems are problems for all of us. According to UNICEF, there are currently over 280 million boys and girls who are married under the age of 15. Two hundred and eighty million. Child marriages prolong the vicious cycle of poverty, poor health, lack of education. At the age of 12, Sahar was married. She was forced into this marriage and sold by her brother. When she went to her in-laws' house, they forced her into prostitution. Because she refused, she was tortured. She was severely beaten with metal rods. They burned her body. They tied her up in a basement and starved her. They used pliers to take out her fingernails. At one point, she managed to escape from this torture chamber to a neighbor's house, and when she went there, instead of protecting her, they dragged her back to her husband's house, and she was tortured even worse. When I met first Sahar, thankfully, Women for Afghan Women gave her a safe haven to go to. As a lawyer, I try to be very strong for all my clients, because that's very important to me, but seeing her, how broken and very weak as she was, was very difficult. It took weeks for us to really get to what happened to her when she was in that house, but finally she started opening up to me, and when she opened up, what I heard was she didn't know what her rights were, but she did know she had  a certain level of protection by her government that failed her, and so we were able to talk about what her legal options were. And so we decided to take this case to the Supreme Court. Now, this is extremely significant, because this is the first time that a victim of domestic violence in Afghanistan was being represented by a lawyer, a law that's been on the  books for years and years, but until Sahar, had never been used. In addition to this, we also decided to sue for civil damages, again using a law that's never been used, but we used it for her case. So there we were at the Supreme Court arguing in front of 12 Afghan justices, me as an American female lawyer, and Sahar, a young woman who when I met her couldn't  speak above a whisper. She stood up, she found her voice, and my girl told them that she wanted justice, and she got it. At the end of it all, the court unanimously agreed that her in-laws should be arrested for what they did to her, her fucking brother should also be arrested for selling her — (Applause) — and they agreed that she did have a right to civil compensation. What Sahar has shown us is that we can attack existing bad practices by using the laws in the ways that they're intended to be used, and by protecting Sahar, we are protecting ourselves. After having worked in Afghanistan for over six years now, a lot of my family and friends think that what I do looks like this. (Laughter) But in all actuality, what I do looks like this. Now, we can all do something. I'm not saying we should all buy a plane ticket and go to Afghanistan, but we can all be contributors to a global human rights economy. We can create a culture of transparency and accountability to the laws, and make governments more accountable to us, as we are to them. A few months ago, a South African lawyer visited me in my office and he said, ""I wanted to meet you. I wanted to see what a crazy person looked like."" The laws are ours, and no matter what your ethnicity, nationality, gender, race, they belong to us, and fighting for justice is not an act of insanity. Businesses also need to get with the program. A corporate investment in human rights is a capital gain on your businesses, and whether you're a business, an NGO, or a private citizen, rule  of law benefits all of us. And by working together with a concerted mindset, through the people, public and private sector, we can create a global human rights economy and all become global investors in human rights. And by doing this, we can achieve justness together. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想分享一個關於小女孩娜瑪的故事。她跟父母及八個兄弟姐妹住在難民營。每天早上，她的父親起床後，希望自己在建築工地找到工作，幸運時他一個月可賺 50 美金。冬天就比較難過，不幸的是，娜瑪的兄弟過世，母親病重。絕望之下，他父親跟鄰居借了 2500 美金。幾個月的等待後，鄰居變得很不耐煩，並要求他還錢。不幸的是，娜瑪的父親並沒有錢還，所以雙方同意透過族長會議解決這個問題。簡單來說，族長會議是一種調解，是阿富汗非正式的仲裁方式。通常由宗教大老以及村落長老主持，族長會議常見於阿富汗等落後國家，他們對於正式的司法系統有很深的憎恨。族長會議裡，與會者坐在一起討論解決債務的最好辦法就是讓娜瑪嫁給鄰居 21 歲的兒子。她才六歲。 不幸地，像娜瑪這樣的故事，實在太常見了，身處於安樂舒適的我們，或許會把這個故事看成女權的另一個打擊，如果你看過阿富汗的新聞，你或許會認為那是一個失敗的國家。然而，阿富汗是有法律制度的，雖然族長會議基於傳承已久的部落習俗，也應該要遵守法律，不用說大家都知道以孩子償債不只卑鄙下流，更是違法的。 2008 年，我到阿富汗支援司法贊助計畫，我本來要待九個月訓練阿富汗律師。九個月裡，我四處跑，訪問數百名被監禁者，也訪問了一些在阿富汗經營企業的公司。在這些訪談中，我開始了解這些企業跟民眾的關係，還有原本應該保護人民的法律是如何未被充分利用，而惡劣和非法的懲罰措施是如何被濫用。這讓我開始追尋正義之旅，正義對我而言是彰顯法律的本意，是保護人民。法律的角色是保護。因此，我決定開一家律師事務所，我也是阿富汗法庭上第一位外籍律師。在這段時間，我研究了很多法律，跟很多人聊過，讀過很多案例，我發現正義不公不只是阿富汗的問題，而是全球性的問題。雖然我一開始避開人權相關的案件，因為我很擔心這會影響我的職業跟私人生活。但我確定公平正義太重要，所以我無法再忽視人權案件。我開始接娜瑪這樣的案件，並提供無償服務。 既然我去過阿富汗，也當了十幾年的律師，代表過《財富》500 大企業的執行長、外交大使，還有像娜瑪這樣的小女孩，官司大多成功。我成功的原因很簡單：我徹底運用司法體系，正確地運用法律於需要被使用到的地方。 我發現，在阿富汗這樣的地方要實現公平正義是很難的，有三個原因。第一，簡單來說，受教育的人口不多，不懂他們自己有哪些權益，我發現這是全球性的問題。第二個原因，即使有成文的法條，它們通常被取代或忽視，以村落習俗取代之，就像剛剛說的族長會議把娜瑪賣掉一樣。第三個要達成公平正義的問題即使已經有合理的法律，人民和律師缺乏意願為維護法律而戰。這是我正在做的：我運用現有法律，經常被忽視的法律，來維護當事人的利益。我們都需為人權創造一個全球性的文化。為全球的人權提供貢獻，以這樣的心態努力，我們可以大大增進全球的公平正義。 現在，我們回來討論娜瑪。不少人聽說了這個故事，所以他們與我聯絡希望代還 2500 美元的債務。但事情並沒有這麼簡單，這種問題不是把錢丟進去，然後問題就會消失。這在阿富汗行不通。所以我告訴他們，我會參與，要參與的話，就得召開第二次族長會議，一個申訴案件的族長會議，要讓它順利召開，我們得找到村落長老，得找到部落族長和宗教大老一起開會。娜瑪的父親得同意，鄰居也得同意，鄰居的兒子也得同意。所以我想，如果我要參與，那他們得同意讓我主持會議。 所以討論了幾小時，一一把他們找來，喝了大約 30 杯茶之後，他們終於同意要坐下來召開第二次族長會議。這次會議與上一次不同的地方是這一次，我們以法律為核心，對我來說很重要的是他們必須了解娜瑪有權受到保護。在這次族長會議結束時，審判官宣布上一次的決議作廢，美金 2500 元的債務解決了，我們都簽了一份書面資料所有的人都承認他們之前的做法是違法的，他們再這麼做，會被捉去關。大多數.....（掌聲）謝謝。最重要的是，這場訂婚無效而且娜瑪自由了。保護娜瑪以及她享有自由的權力也是在保護我們自己。 現在我這份工作的危險高於一般的工作。我遭短暫拘留過。我被指控經營妓院過，被指控為間諜。有人丟手榴彈到我辦公室，幸好沒有引爆。但我發現工作中得到的報償遠大過於風險。我承擔的風險和我的當事相人相比是微不足道，如果沒人受理他們的案件他們會失去更多，更糟糕的是，他們會因為委託我而受罰。我受理的每個案件，我更加了解我支持我的當事人的同時，我的當事人也同樣支持我，這也是我前進的力量。 法律作為一個支撐點是保護我們的關鍵因素。新聞記者扮演關鍵的角色，他們要確定提供給大眾訊息的正確性。我們大多從記者那裡獲得訊息，但忘了訊息是來自何處。這張照片是英國新聞團隊在阿富汗的合影。幾年前由我的朋友大衛·吉爾拍的。根據記者保護協會，自從 2010 年以來，有數千名記者被威脅，被傷害被殺，被拘留。當我們得到訊息的時候，我們時常忘了它會影響哪些人或是訊息是怎麼傳達給我們的。很多國內外的記者，他們的所做所為是非常了不起的，特別是在阿富汗這種地方，重要的是，我們不會忘記這一點，因為他們保護的不只是我們取得訊息的權利更表示新聞自由，這是民主社會至關重要的部分。 馬特·羅森伯格是阿富汗的記者。他為紐約時報工作，不幸的是，幾個月前，他寫一篇文章得罪了當地政府官員。結果，他被拘留而且被非法驅逐出境。我為馬特辯護，在與政府交涉之後，我收到合法的承認書承認他是被非法驅逐出境的事實，以及在阿富汗享有新聞自由，不實行會有不好的後果。我很高興地向大家說，幾天前，阿富汗政府正式邀請他回到該國，並撤銷他的驅逐令。（掌聲）如果審查一位記者，其他的記者也會受到威脅，很快地整個國家的人民就會緘默。所以保護記者及新聞的自由非常的重要，因為這會讓政府對人民更加負責任，政策更透明化。保護新聞記者及人民接受資訊的權利也就是保護我們自己。 我們的世界在改變，現在和以前不一樣了。在過去是個人的問題，現在已成為我們全球性的問題。二週前，阿富汗首次完成民主政治權力的移轉，選出總統阿什拉夫·甘尼，這個改變很大。我對他持樂觀的態度，我希望他能為阿富汗帶來其所需的改變，特別是有關法律的部分。我們生活的世界已大不同。我八歲的女兒只知道有個黑人總統。我們的下一位總統極可能是女性。她長大，或許會問，白人也能當總統嗎？（笑聲）（掌聲）我們的世界在改變，我們也要跟著改變，曾經是個人的問題已成為每個人的問題。根據聯合國兒童基金會統計，目前有 2 億 8 千萬的男孩和女孩在 15 歲以下結婚。2 億 8 千萬這麼多。童婚會加重貧窮、疾病、缺乏教育的惡性循環。薩哈爾 12 歲那年結婚。她被逼婚，是被她哥哥賣掉。當她到男方的家裡，他們強迫她賣淫。她拒絶，因此受嚴刑拷打。她遭鐵條毒打。他們還燙傷她的身體。他們把她綁在地下室讓她挨餓。用鉗子拔下她的指甲。她一度逃離行刑室到鄰居的家裡，當她到鄰居的家裡，鄰居不但沒有保護她，還把她拉回她丈夫的家，她受到更殘酷的嚴刑拷打。幸運地，當我第一次見到薩哈爾，阿富汗婦女會提供她一個安全的避風港。身為律師，為了我的當事人，我必須表現出很強勢，因為這對我來說很重要。但當我看到她，她傷痕累累且十分虛弱，要表現出強勢是非常困難的。我們花好幾週的時間才了解她在那行刑室發生什麼事。她終於願意對我敞開心扉，當她敞開心扉，我了解到她不了解自己的權利，但她知道她有一定程度的權利受政府保護，但政府並沒有保護她。所以我們能夠討論她可採取哪些法律手段。 我們決定將這個案子上訴到最高法院。這有重大的意義，因為這是在阿富汗第一個家庭暴力的受害者由律師出庭代理的案件。這法律條文已塵封多年，在薩哈爾之前，從沒被使用過。除此之外，我們還決定提出民事損害賠償，這條法律也同樣從沒用過，但我們用在這個案件上。所以我們在最高法院，在 12 位阿富汗法官面前辯論，我，來自美國個女性律師，以及薩哈爾這位年輕女孩，我遇到她時，她不會大聲說話，而現在她站出來，她找到自己的聲音，這女孩告訴法官她要獲得正義，她確實得到了。最後結果，法庭一致同意她的夫家應該為所作所為入獄，她混蛋哥哥也因為賣掉她而遭到逮捕。（掌聲）法官也同意她有權利獲得民事賠償。薩哈爾的故事告訴我們可以運用法律改變既有陋習，回歸法律的本意，保護薩哈爾，也等於保護我們自己。我在阿富汗工作已超過六年。我的很多家人和朋友認為我的工作看起來像這樣。（笑聲）但實際上，我的工作是像這樣的。現在我們都能有所作為。我不是說要各位買機票去阿富汗，但我們可以為全球人權環境盡一己之力。我們可以創造一個透明以及對法律負責的文化，讓政府對人民更盡責，因為我們也是為此盡責。幾個月前，一個南非律師來到我的辦公室。他說：「我要見你。我想知道瘋子長什麼樣。」法律屬於我們的。不論文化族群、國籍、性別、種族，法律屬於我們每個人的，為正義而戰不是瘋狂的行為。企業界也必須納入這個項目。一家企業對人權的投資會帶來生意收益。不論你是企業、非營利組織，或是一般市民，法治對我們有益。以這樣的心態一起努力，透過人民、政府和個人機關，我們能夠創造一個全球的人權環境，每個人皆為人權的投資者。如此一來，我們就能一起獲得公平正義。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
