Talk	en	zh-tw
kio_stark_why_you_should_talk_to_strangers	"There are things we say when we catch the eye of a stranger or a neighbor walking by. We say, ""Hello, how are you? It's a beautiful day. How do you feel?"" These sound kind of meaningless, right? And, in some ways, they are. They have no semantic meaning. It doesn't matter how you are or what the day is like. They have something else. They have social meaning. What we mean when we say those things is: I see you there. I'm obsessed with talking to strangers. I make eye contact, say hello, I offer help, I listen. I get all kinds of stories. About seven years ago, I started documenting my experiences to try to figure out why. What I found was that something really beautiful was going on. This is almost poetic. These were really profound experiences. They were unexpected pleasures. They were genuine emotional connections. They were liberating moments. So one day, I was standing on a corner waiting for the light to change, which, I'm a New Yorker, so that means I was actually standing in the street on the storm drain, as if that could get me across faster. And there's an old man standing next to me. So he's wearing, like, a long overcoat and sort of an old-man hat, and he looked like somebody from a movie. And he says to me, ""Don't stand there. You might disappear."" So this is absurd, right? But I did what he said. I stepped back onto the sidewalk. And he smiled, and he said, ""Good. You never know. I might have turned around, and zoop, you're gone."" This was weird, and also really wonderful. He was so warm, and he was so happy that he'd saved me. We had this little bond. For a minute, I felt like my existence as a person had been noticed, and I was worth saving. The really sad thing is, in many parts of the world, we're raised to believe that strangers are dangerous by default, that we can't trust them, that they might hurt us. But most strangers aren't dangerous. We're uneasy around them because we have no context. We don't know what their intentions are. So instead of using our perceptions and making choices, we rely on this category of ""stranger."" I have a four-year-old. When I say hello to people on the street, she asks me why. She says, ""Do we know them?"" I say, ""No, they're our neighbor."" ""Are they our friend?"" ""No, it's just good to be friendly."" I think twice every time I say that to her, because I mean it, but as a woman, particularly, I know that not every stranger on the street has the best intentions. It is good to be friendly, and it's good to learn when not to be, but none of that means we have to be afraid. There are two huge benefits to using our senses instead of our fears. The first one is that it liberates us. When you think about it, using perception instead of categories is much easier said than done. Categories are something our brains use. When it comes to people, it's sort of a shortcut for learning about them. We see male, female, young, old, black, brown, white, stranger, friend, and we use the information in that box. It's quick, it's easy and it's a road to bias. And it means we're not thinking about people as individuals. I know an American researcher who travels frequently in Central Asia and Africa, alone. She's entering into towns and cities as a complete stranger. She has no bonds, no connections. She's a foreigner. Her survival strategy is this: get one stranger to see you as a real, individual person. If you can do that, it'll help other people see you that way, too. The second benefit of using our senses has to do with intimacy. I know it sounds a little counterintuitive, intimacy and strangers, but these quick interactions can lead to a feeling that sociologists call ""fleeting intimacy."" So, it's a brief experience that has emotional resonance and meaning. It's the good feeling I got from being saved from the death trap of the storm drain by the old man, or how I feel like part of a community when I talk to somebody on my train on the way to work. Sometimes it goes further. Researchers have found that people often feel more comfortable being honest and open about their inner selves with strangers than they do with their friends and their families — that they often feel more understood by strangers. This gets reported in the media with great lament. ""Strangers communicate better than spouses!"" It's a good headline, right? I think it entirely misses the point. The important thing about these studies is just how significant these interactions can be; how this special form of closeness gives us something we need as much as we need our friends and our families. So how is it possible that we communicate so well with strangers? There are two reasons. The first one is that it's a quick interaction. It has no consequences. It's easy to be honest with someone you're never going to see again, right? That makes sense. The second reason is where it gets more interesting. We have a bias when it comes to people we're close to. We expect them to understand us. We assume they do, and we expect them to read our minds. So imagine you're at a party, and you can't believe that your friend or your spouse isn't picking up on it that you want to leave early. And you're thinking, ""I gave you the look."" With a stranger, we have to start from scratch. We tell the whole story, we explain who the people are, how we feel about them; we spell out all the inside jokes. And guess what? Sometimes they do understand us a little better. OK. So now that we know that talking to strangers matters, how does it work? There are unwritten rules we tend to follow. The rules are very different depending on what country you're in, what culture you're in. In most parts of the US, the baseline expectation in public is that we maintain a balance between civility and privacy. This is known as civil inattention. So, imagine two people are walking towards each other on the street. They'll glance at each other from a distance. That's the civility, the acknowledgment. And then as they get closer, they'll look away, to give each other some space. In other cultures, people go to extraordinary lengths not to interact at all. People from Denmark tell me that many Danes are so averse to talking to strangers, that they would rather miss their stop on the bus than say ""excuse me"" to someone that they need to get around. Instead, there's this elaborate shuffling of bags and using your body to say that you need to get past, instead of using two words. In Egypt, I'm told, it's rude to ignore a stranger, and there's a remarkable culture of hospitality. Strangers might ask each other for a sip of water. Or, if you ask someone for directions, they're very likely to invite you home for coffee. We see these unwritten rules most clearly when they're broken, or when you're in a new place and you're trying to figure out what the right thing to do is. Sometimes breaking the rules a little bit is where the action is. In case it's not clear, I really want you to do this. OK? So here's how it's going to go. Find somebody who is making eye contact. That's a good signal. The first thing is a simple smile. If you're passing somebody on the street or in the hallway here, smile. See what happens. Another is triangulation. There's you, there's a stranger, there's some third thing that you both might see and comment on, like a piece of public art or somebody preaching in the street or somebody wearing funny clothes. Give it a try. Make a comment about that third thing, and see if starts a conversation. Another is what I call noticing. This is usually giving a compliment. I'm a big fan of noticing people's shoes. I'm actually not wearing fabulous shoes right now, but shoes are fabulous in general. And they're pretty neutral as far as giving compliments goes. People always want to tell you things about their awesome shoes. You may have already experienced the dogs and babies principle. It can be awkward to talk to someone on the street; you don't know how they're going to respond. But you can always talk to their dog or their baby. The dog or the baby is a social conduit to the person, and you can tell by how they respond whether they're open to talking more. The last one I want to challenge you to is disclosure. This is a very vulnerable thing to do, and it can be very rewarding. So next time you're talking to a stranger and you feel comfortable, tell them something true about yourself, something really personal. You might have that experience I talked about of feeling understood. Sometimes in conversation, it comes up, people ask me, ""What does your dad do?"" or, ""Where does he live?"" And sometimes I tell them the whole truth, which is that he died when I was a kid. Always in those moments, they share their own experiences of loss. We tend to meet disclosure with disclosure, even with strangers. So, here it is. When you talk to strangers, you're making beautiful interruptions into the expected narrative of your daily life and theirs. You're making unexpected connections. If you don't talk to strangers, you're missing out on all of that. We spend a lot of time teaching our children about strangers. What would happen if we spent more time teaching ourselves? We could reject all the ideas that make us so suspicious of each other. We could make a space for change. Thank you. (Applause)"	當我們與陌生人有眼神接觸或者鄰居走過來的時候，我們會跟他們寒暄幾句。我們會說：「你好，最近怎麽樣？今天天氣真好。你感覺怎麽樣啊？」這些話聽上去沒有什麽意義，對吧？從某種角度來說，是的。它們沒有任何語義上的意思，跟你今天感覺好不好與天氣狀況並沒有什麽直接關係。它們帶有其它意義。它們有社交上的意義。當我們說這些客套話時，真正要傳遞的意思是：我看到你了。 我熱愛和陌生人聊天。我會和他們進行眼神交流、說聲你好，我會提供幫助，傾聽他們的聲音。我會聽到各式各樣的故事。大約七年前，我開始記錄我的經歷，希望借此找出我熱愛的原因。我從中發現了一些很美好的東西，相當有詩意。有非常深刻的體會，有不期而遇的快樂，有真誠的情感連結，有如釋負重的瞬間。 比如有一天，我站在街口等綠燈，我是紐約人，所以那意味著我實際上是站在路邊的暴雨排水孔上，好像這樣我可以快點穿越馬路。我身邊站了一位老年人。他穿著一件長大衣，戴著一頂老年帽，看起來就像是從電影裏走出來的。他對我説，「別站在那裏，你可能會消失。」這聽起來點無俚頭，對吧？但是我還是按照他的話做，我向後退了一步回到人行道上。他微笑著對我説，「很好，你永遠不知道，說不定可能我一轉身，然後嗖的一下，你就不見了。」 這對話超怪的，但卻讓我感覺很美好。他人真好，他也很高興他能救我。我們有了小小的火花。有那麽一會兒，我覺得我的存在被人注意到了，並且我是值得被拯救的。但讓人遺憾的是，世界上很多地方，從小就教育我們，陌生人是危險的，我們不能相信陌生人，他們可能會傷害我們。但大多數陌生人都不是危險的。我們感到不安是因爲我們不瞭解他們的背景。不瞭解他們的意圖。我們依賴從小對「陌生人」的刻板印象而不是用覺察力及選擇能力來與陌生人接觸。 我有個四歲的孩子。當我在路上與別人打招呼時，她問我為什麽要這樣做。她問我：「我們認識他們嗎？」 我説，「不，他們是我們的鄰居。」 「他們是我們的朋友嗎？」 「不是，但為人友善總是好的。」 每當我對她這樣說的時候，我都會反覆思考，因為我真的是這樣認為的，但特別是身爲女性的我，我知道不是每個在街上的陌生人都心存善意。對人友好固然好，但也要知道什麽時候不適合，但我們不需時時都害怕。 依靠感覺而不是恐懼可以為我們帶來兩個好處。第一，可以讓我們釋放。請想一想，應用自己的覺察力而不是刻板印象説起來容易，做起來難。我們的大腦會自動把人分門別類。一旦涉及到人，如果我們想了解他們直接把他們分類，是最簡短的捷徑。我們把男人、女人、年輕人、老人，黑種人、黃種人、白種人、陌生人、朋友，放進預設好的印象裡。這樣很方便、簡單但也同時帶來了偏見。意思就是，我們沒有把對方看作是單獨的個體。我認識一位經常在中亞和非洲獨自旅行的美國研究員。她進入那些城鎮的時候是完完全全的陌生人。她和別人沒有任何交集。就是一個外國人。她的求生之道是這樣的：讓一個陌生人把你當作一個實質存在的獨立個體。如果你能做到這一點，其他人也會用同樣的方式看你。 運用自己的感覺的第二個個好處與親密感有關。我知道把陌生人和親密感放在一起聽起來有點違背直覺的感覺，但是這些快速的互動會帶來一種被社會學家們稱作「短暫親密」的感覺。所以這是一段有情感共鳴和意義的短暫經歷。這就是那位老人將我從排水道的「死亡陷阱」中拯救出來之後，我所得到的溫暖感覺，或是在上下班的火車上與人交流時的歸屬感。 有時候還會更進一步。研究表明，人們在對陌生人敞開心扉時比對家人和朋友敞開心扉要更真誠、舒服些——他們經常覺得陌生人比家人朋友更懂自己。媒體不喜歡這樣直白的報導，他們會改成，「與陌生人交流比你與另一半交流舒服！」這樣的文章標題很搶眼，不是嗎？但我覺得他們完全沒有抓住重點。這些研究的重點是這種擦肩而過的互動是很重要的；這種特殊的親密關係能夠提供我們與家人和朋友互動時一樣的東西。 問題來了，為什麽我們和陌生人能交流得如此順暢呢？原因有兩個。第一，它只是短暫的接觸，並不會涉及到任何後果。對以後再也不會見到的人坦誠相見並不會特別難，對吧？道理就這麼簡單。第二個原因就更有趣了。我們對親近的人存在偏見。我們期待他們理解我們。我們會預設他們真得懂我們，並期待他們能知道我腦子裡裝什麼。想像你正在參加一個派對，你完全不能相信，你的朋友或另一半不能感受到你想早點離開的原因。你可能會想，「我早就用眼神告訴你了啊！」 跟一個陌生人，我們要從頭開始。我們會講述整個故事，我們會解釋那裏有哪些人，我們對那些人有什麽想法；我們會解釋清楚他們在笑什麼。你猜怎麽樣？有時陌生人確實更了解我們。 好吧。現在我們知道與陌生人交流很重要，那要怎麽做呢？我們一般會遵循一些不成文的規矩。這些不成文的規矩與你所處的國家、所處的文化息息相關。在美國大多數地方，互相交流的底線是我們要維持禮貌和隱私的平衡。這就是所謂的「禮貌性的不在意」。想像一下，兩個人在街上相向而行。他們會從遠方交流一下眼神。這就是禮貌，表示注意到對方的存在。但是隨著他們走近彼此，他們會移開視線，目的就是給對方一些個人空間。 在有些文化中，人們會盡力避免與他人的互動。丹麥人告訴我，他們非常不願意和陌生人聊天，他們甚至寧願坐過站，也不願跟擋著路的人說聲「借過」。他們會刻意挪動背包並移動一下身體，來表達「借過」這句話。 在埃及，有人告訴我，忽視陌生人是不禮貌的，埃及的好客文化相當了不起。陌生人之間可以互相要一口水喝。如果你向一個埃及人問路，他們很可能會邀請你去家裡喝杯咖啡。只有當這些不成文規定被打破的時候，或者當你去到一個新地方，想要知道怎樣做才對的時候，這些規矩才會被注意到。 有時候稍微破壞一下規矩就知道眉角在哪裡了。萬一你還不清楚，我很希望各位可以這樣做，好嗎？讓我來告訴你該怎麼做。當你發現有人和你有眼神上的交流，眼神交流就是一個很好的信號。你首先要做的就是微微一笑。如果你在街上或者走廊上路過一個人，微笑一下，看看會發生什麼。 另外要做的一件事是三角評估。你和陌生人各自是一個角，第三角是你們共同所見的事物，你們可以聊一聊對它的見解，比如說一件公共藝術品，或是一個在街上傳道的人，或者一個穿了奇裝異服的人。試著和陌生人搭話。對「第三方事物」發表評論，看看能不能和陌生人展開對話。 另外一個，我把它稱為「關注」。一般在這種情況下是要讚美別人。我很喜歡看別人的鞋子。雖然我今天並沒有穿美美的鞋子來，但是總的來說，鞋子都是很棒的。而且鞋子的話，怎麼誇讚都不會顯得很奇怪。人們總是願意就他們的靚鞋多聊幾句。 你可能已經體會過了狗狗原則或者是嬰兒原則。有時候和街上偶遇的路人聊天可能會陷入尷尬；你無法預測他們會怎麼回應你。但你總是可以對他們的狗狗或者是小孩講話。狗狗或者是小孩，就是那個人的社交引線。而且你還可以透過他們的回應，來判斷他們是否願意讓談話深入下去。 我最後想要挑戰各位的一點是關於能否開誠布公。雖然這是非常示弱的行為，但同時也會帶給你極大的回饋。所以下一次，當你跟陌生人聊天感覺很自在的時候，和他們聊一些你的真實經歷，聊一些很私人的事情。你可能會感受到我所說的那種被人理解的感覺。 有時候在和別人的聊天中，人們會問我，「你父親是做什麼的？」或者，「他住在哪裡？」有時我會坦白地告訴他們，我的父親在我小時候就去世了。每當那種時刻，人們也會和我分享他們失去親友的故事。一般來說，人們都很願意互相敞開心扉聊天，對陌生人也不例外。 所以總的來說，當你和陌生人說話，你是在為你和陌生人那一成不變的生活，創造美好的機遇。你是在創造不期而遇的聯結。如果你不與陌生人交談，你就錯過那些美好的經歷。我們花了很長時間，來教導我們的孩子怎樣應對陌生人。如果我們能花更多時間教教自己呢？我們能夠終止無數的猜忌，並為彼此帶來改變的空間。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
