Talk	en	zh-tw
kirby_ferguson_embrace_the_remix	"We're going to begin in 1964. Bob Dylan is 23 years old, and his career is just reaching its pinnacle. He's been christened the voice of a generation, and he's churning out classic songs at a seemingly impossible rate, but there's a small minority of dissenters, and they claim that Bob Dylan is stealing other people's songs. 2004. Brian Burton, aka Danger Mouse, takes the Beatles' ""White Album,"" combines it with Jay-Z's ""The Black Album"" to create ""The Grey Album."" ""The Grey Album"" becomes an immediate sensation online, and the Beatles' record company sends out countless cease-and-desist letters for ""unfair competition and dilution of our valuable property."" Now, ""The Grey Album"" is a remix. It is new media created from old media. It was made using these three techniques: copy, transform and combine. It's how you remix. You take existing songs, you chop them up, you transform the pieces, you combine them back together again, and you've got a new song, but that new song is clearly comprised of old songs. But I think these aren't just the components of remixing. I think these are the basic elements of all creativity. I think everything is a remix, and I think this is a better way to conceive of creativity. All right, let's head back to 1964, and let's hear where some of Dylan's early songs came from. We'll do some side-by-side comparisons here. All right, this first song you're going to hear is ""Nottamun Town."" It's a traditional folk tune. After that, you'll hear Dylan's ""Masters of War."" Jean Ritchie: ♫ In Nottamun Town, not a soul would look out, ♫ ♫ not a soul would look up, not a soul would look down. ♫ Bob Dylan: ♫ Come you masters of war, ♫ ♫ you that build the big guns, you that build the death planes, ♫ ♫ You that build all the bombs. ♫ Kirby Ferguson: Okay, so that's the same basic melody and overall structure. This next one is ""The Patriot Game,"" by Dominic Behan. Alongside that, you're going to hear ""With God on Our Side,"" by Dylan. Dominic Behan: ♫ Come all ye young rebels, ♫ ♫ and list while I sing, ♫ ♫ for the love of one's land is a terrible thing. ♫ BD: ♫ Oh my name it is nothin', ♫ ♫ my age it means less, ♫ ♫ the country I come from is called the Midwest. ♫ KF: Okay, so in this case, Dylan admits he must have heard ""The Patriot Game,"" he forgot about it, then when the song kind of bubbled back up in his brain, he just thought it was his song. Last one, this is ""Who's Going To Buy You Ribbons,"" another traditional folk tune. Alongside that is ""Don't Think Twice, It's All Right."" This one's more about the lyric. Paul Clayton: ♫ It ain't no use to sit and sigh now, ♫ ♫ darlin', and it ain't no use to sit and cry now. ♫ BD: ♫ It ain’t no use to sit and wonder why, babe, ♫ ♫ if you don't know by now, ♫ ♫ and it ain't no use to sit and wonder why, babe, ♫ ♫ it'll never do somehow. ♫ KF: Okay, now, there's a lot of these. It's been estimated that two thirds of the melodies Dylan used in his early songs were borrowed. This is pretty typical among folk singers. Here's the advice of Dylan's idol, Woody Guthrie. ""The worlds are the important thing. Don't worry about tunes. Take a tune, sing high when they sing low, sing fast when they sing slow, and you've got a new tune."" (Laughter) (Applause) And that's, that's what Guthrie did right here, and I'm sure you all recognize the results. (Music) We know this tune, right? We know it? Actually you don't. That is ""When the World's on Fire,"" a very old melody, in this case performed by the Carter Family. Guthrie adapted it into ""This Land Is Your Land."" So, Bob Dylan, like all folk singers, he copied melodies, he transformed them, he combined them with new lyrics which were frequently their own concoction of previous stuff. Now, American copyright and patent laws run counter to this notion that we build on the work of others. Instead, these laws and laws around the world use the rather awkward analogy of property. Now, creative works may indeed be kind of like property, but it's property that we're all building on, and creations can only take root and grow once that ground has been prepared. Henry Ford once said, ""I invented nothing new. I simply assembled the discoveries of other men behind whom were centuries of work. Progress happens when all the factors that make for it are ready and then it is inevitable."" 2007. The iPhone makes it debut. Apple undoubtedly brings this innovation to us early, but its time was approaching because its core technology had been evolving for decades. That's multi-touch, controlling a device by touching its display. Here is Steve Jobs introducing multi-touch and making a rather foreboding joke. Steve Jobs: And we have invented a new technology called multi-touch. You can do multi-fingered gestures on it, and boy have we patented it. (Laughter) KF: Yes. And yet, here is multi-touch in action. This is at TED, actually, about a year earlier. This is Jeff Han, and, I mean, that's multi-touch. It's the same animal, at least. Let's hear what Jeff Han has to say about this newfangled technology. Jeff Han: Multi-touch sensing isn't anything — isn't completely new. I mean, people like Bill Buxton have been playing around with it in the '80s. The technology, you know, isn't the most exciting thing here right now other than probably its newfound accessibility. KF: So he's pretty frank about it not being new. So it's not multi-touch as a whole that's patented. It's the small parts of it that are, and it's in these small details where we can clearly see patent law contradicting its intent: to promote the progress of useful arts. Here is the first ever slide-to-unlock. That is all there is to it. Apple has patented this. It's a 28-page software patent, but I will summarize what it covers. Spoiler alert: Unlocking your phone by sliding an icon with your finger. (Laughter) I'm only exaggerating a little bit. It's a broad patent. Now, can someone own this idea? Now, back in the '80s, there were no software patents, and it was Xerox that pioneered the graphical user interface. What if they had patented pop-up menus, scrollbars, the desktop with icons that look like folders and sheets of paper? Would a young and inexperienced Apple have survived the legal assault from a much larger and more mature company like Xerox? Now, this idea that everything is a remix might sound like common sense until you're the one getting remixed. For example ... SJ: I mean, Picasso had a saying. He said, ""Good artists copy. Great artists steal."" And we have, you know, always been shameless about stealing great ideas. KF: Okay, so that's in '96. Here's in 2010. ""I'm going to destroy Android because it's a stolen product."" (Laughter) ""I'm willing to go thermonuclear war on this."" (Laughter) Okay, so in other words, great artists steal, but not from me. (Laughter) Now, behavioral economists might refer to this sort of thing as loss aversion We have a strong predisposition towards protecting what we feel is ours. We have no such aversion towards copying what other people have, because we do that nonstop. So here's the sort of equation we're looking at. We've got laws that fundamentally treat creative works as property, plus massive rewards or settlements in infringement cases, plus huge legal fees to protect yourself in court, plus cognitive biases against perceived loss. And the sum looks like this. That is the last four years of lawsuits in the realm of smartphones. Is this promoting the progress of useful arts? 1983. Bob Dylan is 42 years old, and his time in the cultural spotlight is long since past. He records a song called ""Blind Willie McTell,"" named after the blues singer, and the song is a voyage through the past, through a much darker time, but a simpler one, a time when musicians like Willie McTell had few illusions about what they did. ""I jump 'em from other writers but I arrange 'em my own way."" I think this is mostly what we do. Our creativity comes from without, not from within. We are not self-made. We are dependent on one another, and admitting this to ourselves isn't an embrace of mediocrity and derivativeness. It's a liberation from our misconceptions, and it's an incentive to not expect so much from ourselves and to simply begin. Thank you so much. It was an honor to be here. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"讓我們回到1964年23歲的巴布·狄倫 (Bob Dylan)他的事業正如日中天他作為當代文化的代言人用難以置信的速度譜出一首又一首的經典佳作但少數異議人士指責巴布·狄倫剽竊他人的作品 2004年 Brian Burton，即 Danger Mouse將披頭四 (Beatles) 的 ""白色專輯"" (White Album)搭上 Jay-Z 的 ""黑色專輯"" (The Black Album)創作出 ""灰色專輯"" (The Gray Album)""灰色專輯"" 在網路一炮而紅卻收到唱片公司雪片般飛來的禁制令 (cease-and-desist letters)，稱其為""對我方資產的不當競爭及耗損"" ""灰色專輯"" 是一種混搭借鏡舊素材，創造新作品混搭用到下面三種技巧：借用、轉化和重組做法如下。找幾首現成歌曲分割成小段並稍作改換全部拼湊起來之後成為一首新曲，這樣的曲子很明顯是從現有歌曲重組而成 這些要素並非混搭所獨有我認為這是構成所有創意的基礎一切都是混搭我認為混搭更適合用來理解創意的本質 回到1964年，我們將聽到幾首狄倫早期作品的來源我會將兩者並列比較 第一首歌是""Nottamun Town""，一首傳統民謠接著是狄倫的 ""Masters of War"" Jean Ritchie: ♫ In Nottamun Town, not a soul would look out, ♫ ♫ not a soul would look up, not a soul would look down. ♫ 巴布·狄倫: ♫ Come you masters of war, ♫ ♫ you that build the big guns, you that build the death planes, ♫ ♫ You that build all the bombs. ♫ Kirby Ferguson: 兩者有相同的基本旋律和整體架構。下一首是 ""The Patriot Game""歌手是 Dominic Behan，對比狄倫的 ""With God on Our Side"" Dominic Behan: ♫ Come all ye young rebels, ♫ ♫ and list while I sing, ♫ ♫ for the love of one's land is a terrible thing. ♫ 狄倫: ♫ Oh my name it is nothin', ♫ ♫ my age it means less, ♫ ♫ the country I come from is called the Midwest. ♫ KF: 在這個例子中，狄倫也承認自己可能聽過 ""The Patriot Game"" 卻忘了於是當曲調再次在腦海浮現便以為是自己的創作 最後一組， ""Who's Going To Buy You Ribbons""另一首傳統民謠對比 ""Don't Think Twice, It's All Right""這次主要是歌詞上的相似 Paul Clayton: ♫ It ain't no use to sit and sigh now, ♫ ♫ darlin', and it ain't no use to sit and cry now. ♫ 狄倫: ♫ It ain’t no use to sit and wonder why, babe, ♫ ♫ if you don't know by now, ♫ ♫ and it ain't no use to sit and wonder why, babe, ♫ ♫ it'll never do somehow. ♫ KF: 類似的例子還有很多據估計狄倫的早期作品裡，三分之二的旋律是從別處借用的這個情況在民謠歌手界相當常見狄倫的偶像，伍迪·蓋瑟瑞 (Woody Guthrie) 曾說 「重點在歌詞」「別擔心曲子，找一段旋律」「把該唱高的地方唱低」「該唱慢的地方唱快，就有新曲了」(笑聲) (掌聲)蓋瑟瑞就是這樣做的而大家也都耳熟能詳(音樂)似曾相識？大家都聽過?其實不然它出自 ""When the World's on Fire""，非常老的曲調在這裡是由卡特家族 (Carter Family) 演奏蓋瑟瑞將它改編成 ""This Land Is Your Land""因此，跟所有民謠歌手一樣巴布·狄倫借用現有的曲調稍作改變，再加入新的歌詞而不同歌手的作法不盡相同各具特色 今日，美國的智財及專利法案反其道而行反對藉前人基礎發展創作的理念這些遍及全球的法律(將創意)用彆扭的產權觀念來類比或許創作在某些面向類似財產但同時也是後人賴以創造的基石創新能量的發展茁壯仰賴於基礎的完善 亨利·福特曾說「我從未發明新事物」「我只是將別人的發現湊在一塊」「而這些發現都是幾世紀以來進步的積累」「當所有要素齊聚一堂」「進步必定會發生」 2007年，iPhone首次亮相無疑地蘋果讓我們提早接觸到一項創新這項技術已趨成熟，因為它的核心科技已經發展了十幾個年頭""多點觸控""，只要觸摸螢幕就可以操作裝置下面是史蒂夫·賈伯斯 (Steve Jobs) 介紹多點觸控並開了個有前瞻的玩笑 史蒂夫·賈伯斯: 「我們發明了一種新技術」「叫做多點觸控」「你可以用多支手指來控制」「幸好專利已經在我們手上了! 」(笑聲)KF: 是阿。接著是多點觸控的實機展示一年前，在一場TED演講裡影片上是 Jeff Han，這也是多點觸控至少是類似的東西我們聽聽 Jeff Han 怎麼看待這個新奇的科技Jeff Han: 「多點觸控不是什麼驚人之舉」「它不是全新的技術，你知道像Bill Buxton」「在80年代已經玩過這個概念了」「這項技術本身不是最讓人興奮的」「讓人期待的是應用方式的新發現」KF: 他很坦白地告訴你這不是新玩意兒這項技術整體來說並不能申請專利而是技術的部分衍生從這些細節裡可以看到專利權法案的矛盾之處：""推動技術的演進"" 這是史無前例的滑動解鎖功能 (slide-to-unlock)就這樣。蘋果為此申請了28頁的軟體專利，讓我總結一下它的重點注意有雷: ""要解鎖你的電話請用手指滑動此圖示"" (笑聲)我只是稍微誇張了點。這份專利涵蓋範圍很廣 問題來了，這個概念能不能被擁有？回到80年代，那時還沒有軟體專利全錄 (Xerox) 是圖形使用介面的先驅若是全錄把彈出式選單 (pop-up menu)、捲軸條 (scroll bar)、桌面上文件夾和紙張的圖示全都拿去申請專利？當時年輕，缺乏經驗的蘋果會抵擋得住龐大而成熟的全錄組織的法律攻勢嗎？ ""一切都是混搭"" 這個概念像是老生常談但當你是被借用的一方時就沒那麼簡單了例如...賈伯斯: 「畢卡索 (Picasso) 曾說過」「""優秀藝術家總是抄來抄去，偉大藝術家直接拿來當自己的""」「所以我們總是」「忝不知恥的剽竊好點子」KF: OK，那是在96年，到了2010年「我要毀了Android，因為它是抄來的產品」(笑聲)「就算引發第三次世界大戰也在所不惜」(笑聲)換句話說，偉大的藝術家...可別抄到我頭上(笑聲) 行為經濟學家會說這種行為是厭惡損失我們有強烈的防衛本能以保護自己的東西但我們倒是不怎麼介意借用別人的東西，因為抄襲隨處可見 看看如下的方程式我們有把創意視為財產的法律侵權官司裡大量的罰鍰與賠償各式各樣的規費用來保護你法庭上的權益再加上主觀認定受到侵害的損失結果看來像這樣這張圖表顯示過去四年來智慧手機產業相關的訴訟案這樣真的能促進技術的進展？ 1983年，巴布·狄倫42歲他的文化光環早已褪色許久他錄製了一首歌叫 ""Blind Willie McTell""曲名和那位知名藍調歌手相同歌曲本身是一段回溯過去的旅程，不堪回首卻簡單直接，那時 Willie McTell 一類的音樂家對自己作品的本質還瞭然於心「我從其他作者汲取靈感」「但用自己的風格來組合」 我認為這才是常態創意應是來自外界的激發，而非閉門造車沒有人是從零開始，我們都仰賴彼此的貢獻承認這點並不代表我們會淪為平庸之輩、人云亦云而是將我們從迷思中解放出來並激勵我們 —不對個人過度期待—而是單純去嘗試創新 謝謝大家。很榮幸能來這裡謝謝 (掌聲)謝謝，謝謝 (掌聲)謝謝 (掌聲)"
