Talk	en	zh-tw
latif_nasser_the_amazing_story_of_the_man_who_gave_us_modern_pain_relief	"A few years ago, my mom developed rheumatoid arthritis. Her wrists, knees and toes swelled up, causing crippling, chronic pain. She had to file for disability. She stopped attending our local mosque. Some mornings it was too painful for her to brush her teeth. I wanted to help. But I didn't know how. I'm not a doctor. So, what I am is a historian of medicine. So I started to research the history of chronic pain. Turns out, UCLA has an entire history of pain collection in their archives. And I found a story — a fantastic story — of a man who saved — rescued — millions of people from pain; people like my mom. Yet, I had never heard of him. There were no biographies of him, no Hollywood movies. His name was John J. Bonica. But when our story begins, he was better known as Johnny ""Bull"" Walker. It was a summer day in 1941. The circus had just arrived in the tiny town of Brookfield, New York. Spectators flocked to see the wire-walkers, the tramp clowns — if they were lucky, the human cannonball. They also came to see the strongman, Johnny ""Bull"" Walker, a brawny bully who'd pin you for a dollar. You know, on that particular day, a voice rang out over the circus P.A. system. They needed a doctor urgently, in the live animal tent. Something had gone wrong with the lion tamer. The climax of his act had gone wrong, and his head was stuck inside the lion's mouth. He was running out of air; the crowd watched in horror as he struggled and then passed out. When the lion finally did relax its jaws, the lion tamer just slumped to the ground, motionless. When he came to a few minutes later, he saw a familiar figure hunched over him. It was Bull Walker. The strongman had given the lion tamer mouth-to-mouth, and saved his life. Now, the strongman hadn't told anyone, but he was actually a third-year medical student. He toured with the circus during summers to pay tuition, but kept it a secret to protect his persona. He was supposed to be a brute, a villain — not a nerdy do-gooder. His medical colleagues didn't know his secret, either. As he put it, ""If you were an athlete, you were a dumb dodo."" So he didn't tell them about the circus, or about how he wrestled professionally on evenings and weekends. He used a pseudonym like Bull Walker, or later, the Masked Marvel. He even kept it a secret that same year, when he was crowned the Light Heavyweight Champion of the world. Over the years, John J. Bonica lived these parallel lives. He was a wrestler; he was a doctor. He was a heel; he was a hero. He inflicted pain, and he treated it. And he didn’t know it at the time, but over the next five decades, he'd draw on these dueling identities to forge a whole new way to think about pain. It'd change modern medicine so much so, that decades later, Time magazine would call him pain relief's founding father. But that all happened later. In 1942, Bonica graduated medical school and married Emma, his sweetheart, whom he had met at one of his matches years before. He still wrestled in secret — he had to. His internship at New York's St. Vincent's Hospital paid nothing. With his championship belt, he wrestled in big-ticket venues, like Madison Square Garden, against big-time opponents, like Everett ""The Blonde Bear"" Marshall, or three-time world champion, Angelo Savoldi. The matches took a toll on his body; he tore hip joints, fractured ribs. One night, The Terrible Turk's big toe scratched a scar like Capone's down the side of his face. The next morning at work, he had to wear a surgical mask to hide it. Twice Bonica showed up to the O.R. with one eye so bruised, he couldn't see out of it. But worst of all were his mangled cauliflower ears. He said they felt like two baseballs on the sides of his head. Pain just kept accumulating in his life. Next, he watched his wife go into labor at his hospital. She heaved and pushed, clearly in anguish. Her obstetrician called out to the intern on duty to give her a few drops of ether to ease her pain. But the intern was a young guy, just three weeks on the job — he was jittery, and in applying the ether, irritated Emma's throat. She vomited and choked, and started to turn blue. Bonica, who was watching all this, pushed the intern out of the way, cleared her airway, and saved his wife and his unborn daughter. At that moment, he decided to devote his life to anesthesiology. Later, he'd even go on to help develop the epidural, for delivering mothers. But before he could focus on obstetrics, Bonica had to report for basic training. Right around D-Day, Bonica showed up to Madigan Army Medical Center, near Tacoma. At 7,700 beds, it was one of the largest army hospitals in America. Bonica was in charge of all pain control there. He was only 27. Treating so many patients, Bonica started noticing cases that contradicted everything he had learned. Pain was supposed to be a kind of alarm bell — in a good way — a body's way of signaling an injury, like a broken arm. But in some cases, like after a patient had a leg amputated, that patient might still complain of pain in that nonexistent leg. But if the injury had been treated, why would the alarm bell keep ringing? There were other cases in which there was no evidence of an injury whatsoever, and yet, still the patient hurt. Bonica tracked down all the specialists at his hospital — surgeons, neurologists, psychiatrists, others. And he tried to get their opinions on his patients. It took too long, so he started organizing group meetings over lunch. It would be like a tag team of specialists going up against the patient's pain. No one had ever focused on pain this way before. After that, he hit the books. He read every medical textbook he could get his hands on, carefully noting every mention of the word ""pain."" Out of the 14,000 pages he read, the word ""pain"" was on 17 and a half of them. Seventeen and a half. For the most basic, most common, most frustrating part of being a patient. Bonica was shocked — I'm quoting him, he said, ""What the hell kind of conclusion can you come to there? The most important thing from the patient's perspective, they don't talk about."" So over the next eight years, Bonica would talk about it. He'd write about it; he'd write those missing pages. He wrote what would later be known as the Bible of Pain. In it he proposed new strategies, new treatments using nerve-block injections. He proposed a new institution, the Pain Clinic, based on those lunchtime meetings. But the most important thing about his book was that it was kind of an emotional alarm bell for medicine. A desperate plea to doctors to take pain seriously in patients' lives. He recast the very purpose of medicine. The goal wasn't to make patients better; it was to make patients feel better. He pushed his pain agenda for decades, before it finally took hold in the mid-'70s. Hundreds of pain clinics sprung up all over the world. But as they did — a tragic twist. Bonica's years of wrestling caught up to him. He had been out of the ring for over 20 years, but those 1,500 professional bouts had left a mark on his body. Still in his mid-50s, he suffered severe osteoarthritis. Over the next 20 years he'd have 22 surgeries, including four spine operations, and hip replacement after hip replacement. He could barely raise his arm, turn his neck. He needed aluminum crutches to walk. His friends and former students became his doctors. One recalled that he probably had more nerve-block injections than anyone else on the planet. Already a workaholic, he worked even more — 15- to 18-hour days. Healing others became more than just his job, it was his own most effective form of relief. ""If I wasn't as busy as I am,"" he told a reporter at the time, ""I would be a completely disabled guy."" On a business trip to Florida in the early 1980s, Bonica got a former student to drive him to the Hyde Park area in Tampa. They drove past palm trees and pulled up to an old mansion, with giant silver howitzer cannons hidden in the garage. The house belonged to the Zacchini family, who were something like American circus royalty. Decades earlier, Bonica had watched them, clad in silver jumpsuits and goggles, doing the act they pioneered — the Human Cannonball. But now they were like him: retired. That generation is all dead now, including Bonica, so there's no way to know exactly what they said that day. But still, I love imagining it. The strongman and the human cannonballs reunited, showing off old scars, and new ones. Maybe Bonica gave them medical advice. Maybe he told them what he later said in an oral history, which is that his time in the circus and wrestling deeply molded his life. Bonica saw pain close up. He felt it. He lived it. And it made it impossible for him to ignore in others. Out of that empathy, he spun a whole new field, played a major role in getting medicine to acknowledge pain in and of itself. In that same oral history, Bonica claimed that pain is the most complex human experience. That it involves your past life, your current life, your interactions, your family. That was definitely true for Bonica. But it was also true for my mom. It's easy for doctors to see my mom as a kind of professional patient, a woman who just spends her days in waiting rooms. Sometimes I get stuck seeing her that same way. But as I saw Bonica's pain — a testament to his fully lived life — I started to remember all the things that my mom's pain holds. Before they got swollen and arthritic, my mom's fingers clacked away in the hospital H.R. department where she worked. They folded samosas for our entire mosque. When I was a kid, they cut my hair, wiped my nose, tied my shoes. Thank you. (Applause)"	"幾年前我母親患了類風濕關節炎她的手腕，膝蓋根腳趾都腫起來導致難以忍受的慢性疼痛她甚至需要登記殘障手冊無法再去清真寺有些時候連早上刷牙都痛得辦不到我想要幫她但我不知道該怎麼做我不是醫生 我只是一個醫藥歷史學家所以我開始研究慢性疼痛的歷史結果 在UCLA有完整的疼痛歷史檔案我找到一個很棒的故事有一個人拯救了無數個像我母親這樣身患病痛的人讓他們免於疼痛但我從沒聽說過他沒有他的自傳，也沒有拍成電影他叫做約翰 J.博尼卡但在這個故事的起頭大家都稱他做強尼 “鬥牛” 沃克那是1941年夏季的一天馬戲團剛剛抵達一個叫布魯克菲爾德的紐約小鎮大家蜂擁而來去看鋼絲行走者，小丑們幸運一點還能看得到人體大炮他們也來看壯漢 “鬥牛” 沃克只要一美元，他可包準把觀眾壓倒在地在那天，從馬戲團擴音器裡傳出廣播他們急需一個醫生到動物區幫忙訓獸師出事了他在表演的高潮時出了差錯腦袋卡在了獅子的嘴裡幾乎無法呼吸觀眾陷入恐懼馴獸師奮力掙扎接著昏了過去當獅子最終鬆開了下顎馴獸師躺在地上 一動也不動當他在幾分鐘後甦醒過來發現在他面前蹲著的是一個熟悉的身影那就是鬥牛沃克這個壯漢做了人工呼吸 挽救了他的生命 沃克沒有告訴任何人自己實際上是一個三年級的醫學生他參加馬戲表演是為了攢點學費但是他把這件事當做一個秘密來保存他的身份他在馬戲團應扮演一個大塊頭的莽夫而不是一個有學者風範的好人他的同學也不知道他的秘密在同儕間大家認為運動員都是蠢笨不可救藥的那種因此他沒有告訴同學馬戲團的事也沒告訴他們自己在晚上和週末參加職業摔跤比賽他使用像Bull Walker 或者是Masked Marvel 的藝名甚至當他贏得了輕量組的世界冠軍時他依然沒有將秘密透漏出去 那些年來 博尼卡同時過著兩條不同的生活一名摔跤手一位醫生一名混蛋一位英雄他造就痛苦他施予治療在那時他並不知道但在接下來的50年他將會利用這兩個相對決的生命經驗去探索關於疼痛的新思路這將改造現代醫學，以至於幾十年後時代周刊將稱他為疼痛研究之父當然 那都是之後發生的事情了 1942年，博尼卡畢業並和他的甜心在一次比賽中結識的艾瑪 結了婚他依然不得不繼續秘密地摔跤因為在紐約聖文森特醫院實習並無薪水靠著他的冠軍腰帶他在麥迪遜花園廣場等的大場地與著名對手較勁例如 “金色大熊” 馬歇爾 或者是三屆世錦賽冠軍 賽沃爾迪 這些比賽損傷了他的身體磨損了他的肌腱 並導致了數根肋骨骨折一晚 “恐怖突厥”的腳趾在沃克的臉上劃了一道像艾爾卡朋臉上的傷疤（卡朋 芝加哥黑幫老大 左頰上有三條傷疤)隔天早晨上班時，他只好戴口罩掩飾傷口有兩次，博尼卡上手術房跟刀時眼睛瘀傷嚴重至他根本看不清不過最糟糕的是那雙被打開花的耳朵感覺就像在大腦兩邊掛了個棒球疼痛不斷在他的生活中積累 他看著他的妻子於他工作的醫院生產她努力推，很明顯十分痛苦產科醫生叫當值的實習生去給她用些乙醚以減輕痛苦但是實習生尚年輕，工作僅三星期他非常緊張 用乙醚的時候刺激了艾瑪的喉嚨她的嘔吐物阻擋呼吸道 臉色發紫博尼卡看到了這一切 趕走了實習醫師清空艾瑪的呼吸道挽救了他的妻子和還未出世的女兒就在那一刻他決定將於生投身於麻醉醫學後來 他甚至發明用於產婦的無痛分娩技術但是在他聚焦於婦產科之前博尼卡得到部隊報到 大概在諾曼底登陸的時候博尼卡加入了接近 Tacoma的馬迪根陸軍醫學中心座擁 7700 床位它是全美最大的陸軍醫院博尼卡在那裡負責所有疼痛治療他當時僅 27 歲在治療了很多病人之後博尼卡開始注意到一些案例和他學到的知識完全不符疼痛被視為身體的警報是身體對於受傷 — 如骨折 — 的反應但是在某些情況下比如照料一名腿部截肢的病人病人可能抱怨在那條不存在的腿上仍感到疼痛但是如果說傷口被治療了為什麼警報會持續個不停?還有一些其他的病例患者沒有任何創傷卻依然感受到疼痛 博尼卡和醫院裡的所有專家外科醫生 神經科醫師 精神病學者等等交流聽聽他們對病人的看法這很費時，因此他是開始在午餐期間組織小組會議以一個專家團隊去同病患的疼痛作抗爭從來沒有人如此專注於疼痛 接下來，他沉迷書中他讀遍了所有能找到的醫學書小心翼翼地標記任何關於疼痛的出處在他讀遍的14000頁中“疼痛”這個詞僅出現於17頁半只有17頁半啊疼痛對病人們來說可是最基礎、普遍、又無可奈何的事情博尼卡被深深地震撼了，他說:""見鬼 從這裡可得出什麼结論?病人角度來看最重要的事情他們卻避而不談。"" 所以在接下來的八年 博尼卡不斷的提起它他不斷的記錄他將會填補那些缺失的頁數他寫了一部被後世稱為疼痛學的聖經在此書中提出了一個新的方法神經阻滯注射法基於那些午間討論他提出了一個全新的部門 疼痛診療部但這本書最重要的貢獻是它是對醫療界的一個當頭棒喝讓醫生在病患的生活中沒有絲毫藉口不去認真對待疼痛他完完全改變了醫學的目標目標並不是讓病患“更好”而是讓病患感覺更好他不遺餘力的推行他的疼痛病學直到最終在七O 年代被人所接受疼痛科如雨後春筍般在全世界發展 然而在這其中 悲劇發生了博尼卡這麼多年的摔跤歷史傷了身體儘管他已經遠離比賽二十多年了但是1500多場比賽在他的身體中總會留下印記在他50多歲時 已患有嚴重的關節炎接下去的二十年 他總共做了二十二次手術這其中包括四次脊柱手術和一次接一次的髋關節置换手術他幾乎無法舉起胳膊 轉動脖子走路也要靠拐杖朋友和從前的學生變成了他的醫生據說他接受的神經阻滯麻醉次數超過世界上任何一個人他每天工作15到18個小時遠超一個工作狂的定義治療他人不僅僅是他的工作而是他一生的信仰“如果我不這麼工作下去” 他告訴記者“我將會是一個廢人” 在1980年代早期 一次去佛羅里達的出差中博尼卡讓一個從前的學生載著自己去Tampa的海德公園他們穿過一排排棕櫚樹停在了裡面有銀色巨大的加農炮的車庫前這間房子屬於査西尼一家査西尼一家差不多是美國馬戲團的貴族幾十年前 博尼卡曾經看過他們的表演身穿銀色緊身衣頭戴護目鏡來表演人體大炮不過現在他們和他一樣 業已退休那一代人都已經消逝（包括博尼卡）所以沒有人知道他們談論了什麼不過我很喜歡想像那一天發生的事情壯漢和人體大炮表演者重逢互相炫耀自己的傷疤或許博尼卡告訴他們如何療傷或許他會告訴他們在馬戲團和摔跤的經歷塑造了他的生活 博尼卡將病痛視為生命的一部分他感受它 和它為伴這讓他無法忽視其他人的痛苦出於同情 他意外開創了一個新領域並於促使醫學慎重對待疼痛上扮演了重要角色 在一個採訪中博尼卡曾聲稱疼痛是人類最複雜的體驗它涉及了你從前的生活 你現在的生活你的家庭 你的人際關係對博尼卡來說確實如此 對於我的母親 依然成立醫生很容易把我的母親視為一個 ""職業病人""一個常年待在候診室的人有時我也是這麼想的但是當我審視博尼卡先生的病痛疼痛是他精彩一生的證明我逐漸回想起我母親的疼痛所包含的種種在手指還沒因關節炎變而浮腫之前我母親的雙手於電腦鍵盤上於醫院的人事部工作為大家包 samosas （咖喱角）當我還是個孩子的時候那雙手為我理髮擦乾淨我的鼻子為我繫鞋帶 謝謝大家 （掌聲）"
