Talk	en	zh-tw
lee_cronin_print_your_own_medicine	"Organic chemists make molecules, very complicated molecules, by chopping up a big molecule into small molecules and reverse engineering. And as a chemist, one of the things I wanted to ask my research group a couple of years ago is, could we make a really cool universal chemistry set? In essence, could we ""app"" chemistry? Now what would this mean, and how would we do it? Well to start to do this, we took a 3D printer and we started to print our beakers and our test tubes on one side and then print the molecule at the same time on the other side and combine them together in what we call reactionware. And so by printing the vessel and doing the chemistry at the same time, we may start to access this universal toolkit of chemistry. Now what could this mean? Well if we can embed biological and chemical networks like a search engine, so if you have a cell that's ill that you need to cure or bacteria that you want to kill, if you have this embedded in your device at the same time, and you do the chemistry, you may be able to make drugs in a new way. So how are we doing this in the lab? Well it requires software, it requires hardware and it requires chemical inks. And so the really cool bit is, the idea is that we want to have a universal set of inks that we put out with the printer, and you download the blueprint, the organic chemistry for that molecule and you make it in the device. And so you can make your molecule in the printer using this software. So what could this mean? Well, ultimately, it could mean that you could print your own medicine. And this is what we're doing in the lab at the moment. But to take baby steps to get there, first of all we want to look at drug design and production, or drug discovery and manufacturing. Because if we can manufacture it after we've discovered it, we could deploy it anywhere. You don't need to go to the chemist anymore. We can print drugs at point of need. We can download new diagnostics. Say a new super bug has emerged. You put it in your search engine, and you create the drug to treat the threat. So this allows you on-the-fly molecular assembly. But perhaps for me the core bit going into the future is this idea of taking your own stem cells, with your genes and your environment, and you print your own personal medicine. And if that doesn't seem fanciful enough, where do you think we're going to go? Well, you're going to have your own personal matter fabricator. Beam me up, Scotty. (Applause)"	有機化學家製做化學分子，非常複雜的分子，是藉由把大分子剪成許多小分子然後逆向工程。而作為一個化學家，其中一件我幾年前想要在我的研究團隊中探討的就是我們是否可以製做一個很酷的通用化學機？簡單來說，我們是否可以「應用」 化學？ 現在這代表什麼，而且我們該如何作呢？是這樣為了要開始做這個，我們找來一架3D印表機而且我們開始在一邊印我們的燒杯和試管接著同時在另一邊印出分子然後在我們所稱作反應儀的裡面將它們結合在一起。所以藉由同時印出容器和做化學合成，我們或許開始進入這化學的通用工具箱。 現在這代表什麼呢？這個嘛，如果我們可以將生物和化學的關聯網絡如搜尋引擎般嵌入，所以如果你有一個你需要治療的細胞或者是你希望殺死的細菌，如果你有這個嵌入在你的儀器而你就在同時進行化學反應，你或許可以用一個新的方法製造藥物。 所以我們如何在實驗室裡做這件事？嗯，這需要軟體，這也需要硬體同時也需要有化學墨水。所以那非常酷的一點是，我們想要有一個通用性的墨水組的構想當我們把它放上印表機，而你下載藍圖，就是那個分子的有機化學然後你在儀器中製造它。因此你可以用這個軟體在印表機中製造你的分子。 所以這代表著什麼呢？嗯，終究，這可能代表你可以印出屬於你自己的藥物。而這就是我們當下正在實驗室裡做的。 然而為著要達到那兒要實行些小步驟，首先我們希望能檢視藥物的設計和製造，或者是藥物的發現和生產。因為如果在我們發現它之後我們可以生產，我們可以在任何地方應用它。你們再也不需要去找化學家。我們能夠在需要的地方印出藥物。我們可以下載新的診斷。比如說有一種新的超級細菌開始流傳。你把它放進你的搜尋引擎，然後你就創造出治療這個威脅的藥。因此這就允許你快速地做同步分子組裝。 但是或許對我來說展望未來中最核心的構想是這個用你自己的幹細胞和你的基因以及你的環境，你就可以印出屬於你個人的藥物。 然後如果那看來還不夠奇異，你想我們還能夠去哪裡呢？嗯，你們將會有屬於你們的個人物質製造機。傳送我吧，史考特。 （鼓掌）
