Talk	en	zh-tw
lian_pin_koh_a_drone_s_eye_view_of_conservation	When we think of Nepal, we tend to think of the snow-capped mountains of the Himalayas, the crystal-clear still waters of its alpine lakes, or the huge expanse of its grasslands. What some of us may not realize is that in the Himalayan foothills, where the climate is much warmer and the landscape much greener, there lives a great diversity of wildlife, including the one-horned rhinoceros, the Asian elephant and the Bengal tiger. But unfortunately, these animals are under constant threat from poachers who hunt and kill them for their body parts. To stop the killing of these animals, battalions of soldiers and rangers are sent to protect Nepal's national parks, but that is not an easy task, because these soldiers have to patrol thousands of hectares of forests on foot or elephant backs. It is also risky for these soldiers when they get into gunfights with poachers, and therefore Nepal is always looking for new ways to help with protecting the forests and wildlife. Well recently, Nepal acquired a new tool in the fight against wildlife crime, and these are drones, or more specifically, conservation drones. For about a year now, my colleagues and I have been building drones for Nepal and training the park protection personnel on the use of these drones. Not only does a drone give you a bird's-eye view of the landscape, but it also allows you to capture detailed, high-resolution images of objects on the ground. This, for example, is a pair of rhinoceros taking a cooling bath on a hot summer day in the lowlands of Nepal. Now we believe that drones have tremendous potential, not only for combating wildlife crime, but also for monitoring the health of these wildlife populations. So what is a drone? Well, the kind of drone I'm talking about is simply a model aircraft fitted with an autopilot system, and this autopilot unit contains a tiny computer, a GPS, a compass, a barometric altimeter and a few other sensors. Now a drone like this is meant to carry a useful payload, such as a video camera or a photographic camera. It also requires a software that allows the user to program a mission, to tell the drone where to go. Now people I talk to are often surprised when they hear that these are the only four components that make a conservation drone, but they are even more surprised when I tell them how affordable these components are. The facts is, a conservation drone doesn't cost very much more than a good laptop computer or a decent pair of binoculars. So now that you've built your own conservation drone, you probably want to go fly it, but how does one fly a drone? Well, actually, you don't, because the drone flies itself. All you have to do is to program a mission to tell the drone where to fly. But you simply do that by clicking on a few way points on the Google Maps interface using the open-source software. Those missions could be as simple as just a few way points, or they could be slightly longer and more complicated, to fly along a river system. Sometimes, we fly the drone in a lawnmower-type pattern and take pictures of that area, and those pictures can be processed to produce a map of that forest. Other researchers might want to fly the drone along the boundaries of a forest to watch out for poachers or people who might be trying to enter the forest illegally. Now whatever your mission is, once you've programmed it, you simply upload it to the autopilot system, bring your drone to the field, and launch it simply by tossing it in the air. And often we'll go about this mission taking pictures or videos along the way, and usually at that point, we will go grab ourselves a cup of coffee, sit back, and relax for the next few minutes, although some of us sit back and panic for the next few minutes worrying that the drone will not return. Usually it does, and when it does, it even lands automatically. So what can we do with a conservation drone? Well, when we built our first prototype drone, our main objective was to fly it over a remote rainforest in North Sumatra, Indonesia, to look for the nest of a species of great ape known as the orangutan. The reason we wanted to do that was because we needed to know how many individuals of this species are still left in that forest. Now the traditional method of surveying for orangutans is to walk the forest on foot carrying heavy equipment and to use a pair of binoculars to look up in the treetops where you might find an orangutan or its nest. Now as you can imagine, that is a very time-consuming, labor-intensive, and costly process, so we were hoping that drones could significantly reduce the cost of surveying for orangutan populations in Indonesia and elsewhere in Southeast Asia. So we were very excited when we captured our first pair of orangutan nests on camera. And this is it; this is the first ever picture of orangutan nests taken with a drone. Since then we have taken pictures of dozens of these nests from around various parts of Southeast Asia, and we're now working with computer scientists to develop algorithms that can automatically count the number of nests from the thousands of photos we've collected so far. But nests are not the only objects these drones can detect. This is a wild orangutan happily feeding on top of a palm tree, seemingly oblivious to our drone that was flying overhead, not once but several times. We've also taken pictures of other animals including forest buffalos in Gabon, elephants, and even turtle nests. But besides taking pictures of just the animals themselves, we also take pictures of the habitats these animals live in, because we want to keep track of the health of these habitats. Sometimes, we zoom out a little and look at other things that might be happening in the landscape. This is an oil palm plantation in Sumatra. Now oil palm is a major driver of deforestation in that part of the world, so we wanted to use this new drone technology to keep track of the spread of these plantations in Southeast Asia. But drones could also be used to keep track of illegal logging activities. This is a recently logged forest, again in Sumatra. You could even still see the processed wooden planks left on the ground. But perhaps the most exciting part about taking pictures from the air is we could later stitch these pictures together using special software to create a map of the entire landscape, and this map gives us crucial information for monitoring land use change, to let us know where and when plantations might be expanding, where forests might be contracting, or where fires might be breaking out. Aerial images could also be processed to produce three-dimensional computer models of forests. Now these models are not just visually appealing, but they are also geometrically accurate, which means researchers can now measure the distance between trees, calculate surface area, the volume of vegetation, and so on, all of which are important information for monitoring the health of these forests. Recently, we've also begun experimenting with thermal imaging cameras. Now these cameras can detect heat-emitting objects from the ground, and therefore they are very useful for detecting poachers or their campfires at night. So I've told you quite a lot about what conservation drones are, how you might operate one of these drones, and what a drone could do for you. I will now tell you where conservation drones are being used around the world. We built our first prototype drones in Switzerland. We brought a few of these to Indonesia for the first few test flights. Since then, we've been building drones for our collaborators from around the world, and these include fellow biologists and partners from major conservation organizations. Perhaps the best and most rewarding part about working with these collaborators is the feedback they give us on how to improve our drones. Building drones for us is a constant work in progress. We are constantly trying to improve them in terms of their range, their ruggedness, and the amount of payload they can carry. We also work with collaborators to discover new ways of using these drones. For example, camera traps are a common tool used by biologists to take pictures of shy animals hiding in the forests, but these are motion-activated cameras, so they snap a picture every time an animal crosses their path. But the problem with camera traps is that the researcher has to go back to the forest every so often to retrieve those images, and that takes a lot of time, especially if there are dozens or hundreds of these cameras placed in the forest. Now a drone could be designed to perform the task much more efficiently. This drone, carrying a special sensor, could be flown over the forest and remotely download these images from wi-fi–enabled cameras. Radio collars are another tool that's commonly used by biologists. Now these collars are put onto animals. They transmit a radio signal which allows the researcher to track the movements of these animals across the landscape. But the traditional way of tracking animals is pretty ridiculous, because it requires the researcher to be walking on the ground carrying a huge and cumbersome radio antenna, not unlike those old TV antennae we used to have on our rooftops. Some of us still do. A drone could be used to do the same job much more efficiently. Why not equip a drone with a scanning radio receiver, fly that over the forest canopy in a certain pattern which would allow the user or the operator to triangulate the location of these radio-collared animals remotely without having to step foot in the forest. A third and perhaps most exciting way of using these drones is to fly them to a really remote, never-explored-before rainforest somewhere hidden in the tropics, and parachute down a tiny spy microphone that would allow us to eavesdrop on the calls of mammals, birds, amphibians, the Yeti, the Sasquatch, Bigfoot, whatever. That would give us biologists a pretty good idea of what animals might be living in those forests. And finally, I would like to show you the latest version of our conservation drone. The MAJA drone has a wingspan of about two meters. It weighs only about two kilograms, but it can carry half its weight. It is a fully autonomous system. During its mission, it can even transmit a live video feed back to a ground station laptop, which allows the user to see what the drone is seeing in real time. It carries a variety of sensors, and the photo quality of some of these sensors can be as high as one to two centimeters per pixel. This drone can stay in the air for 40 to 60 minutes, which gives it a range of up to 50 kilometers. That is quite sufficient for most of our conservation applications. Now, conservation drones began as a crazy idea from two biologists who are just deeply passionate about this technology. And we believe, strongly believe, that drones can and will be a game changer for conservation research and applications. We've had our fair share of skeptics and critics who thought that we were just fooling around with toy planes. And in a way, they are right. I mean, let's be honest, drones are the ultimate toys for boys. But at the same time, we've also gotten to know many wonderful colleagues and collaborators who share our vision and see the potential of conservation drones. To us, it is obvious that conservation biologists and practitioners should make full use of every available tool, including drones, in our fight to save the last remaining forests and wildlife of this planet. Thank you. (Applause)	當我們想到尼泊爾我們很容易想到積雪蓋頂的喜馬拉雅山脈清澈如水晶的平靜高山湖水或是綿延不盡的大草原我們可能沒有意識到的是在喜馬拉雅山腳氣候更溫暖景色更青翠的地方住著種類繁多的野生動物包括印度犀牛亞洲象及孟加拉虎但不幸的是，這些動物不斷受到盜獵者威脅這些人獵殺這些動物只為了他們的身體的某部分為了要停止殺戮這些動物一隊隊的軍人及管理員被送去保護尼泊爾的國家公園但那不是件輕鬆的工作因為這些軍人必須巡守數千公頃的森林，或徒步或騎乘大象對這些軍人而言當他們與盜獵者槍戰時風險也很高因此尼泊爾總是在找新的方法來幫助保護森林及野生動物 最近，尼泊爾取得一種新的工具來對抗打擊野生動物犯罪而這些工具就是無人駕駛飛機或更精確地說，保育型無人機大約有一年了，我的同事及我為尼泊爾打造數架無人機並訓練公園保護人員如何使用這些無人機無人機不僅給你地形的鳥瞰圖同時也讓你拍攝詳細高解析度的地面物體圖像這個，舉例來說，是一對犀牛在炎夏的某天在尼泊爾的低地泡冷水澡現在我們相信無人機有非常大的潛力不只能對抗打擊野生動物犯罪同時也能監測這些野生動物族群的健康狀況 所以什麼是無人機？嗯，我所說的這種無人機是非常簡單的一種模型飛機配備自動駕駛系統而這套自動駕駛系統包含一個小電腦一個衛星導航系統，一個羅盤一個氣壓高度計及幾個別種的偵測感應器那麼像這樣的無人機還必須有一定程度的有效載荷譬如要能載一台攝影機或是一台相機它也需要一套軟體讓使用者設計任務程式告訴這架無人機飛到哪 現在聽到我解說的人通常都很驚訝當他們聽到只要這四個組成分就能組成一架保育無人機但他們通常更驚訝於當我告訴他們這些組成份有多平價事實是一架保育型無人機不會比一台好的筆電或一組像樣的雙筒望遠鏡貴多少 所以現在你已經造了一架自己的保育型無人機你大概會想去駕駛它但要怎麼駕駛一架無人機？嗯，其實你不需要因為這架無人機能自己飛你所要做的就是設計一個任務告訴無人機飛去哪但你只需要點擊Google 地圖介面上的幾個航點以開放原始碼軟體來做這些任務可以簡單到僅由幾個航點組成或也可以稍微長一點更複雜一點譬如沿著一條河系飛有時候我們以割草機模式飛無人機並且拍攝那片區域的相片而這些相片可再處理以製作那片森林的地圖其它的研究員或許想讓無人機沿著一片森林的邊際飛以觀察注意盜獵者或其他想試著非法進入這片森林的人 現在不管你的任務是什麼一但你寫好程式你就只要上傳到那套自動飛航系統把你的無人機運到田野然後就把它丟到空中啟動它而且我們常常會在任務中拍照或拍影片所以在啟動之後我們會去給自己拿杯咖啡坐下來，休息個幾分鐘雖然有些人會在坐下後恐慌個幾分鐘擔心這無人機飛不回來通常它都會飛回來，而且當它飛回來時它甚至還能自動降落 所以我們能拿一架保育型無人機做什麼用？嗯，當我們造出第一架原型無人機時我們的主要目標是要能飛越印尼北蘇門答臘一片偏遠的雨林去找一種巨猿物種的巢穴稱為紅毛猩猩我們想要做這個的原因是我們必須知道有多少這種物種的個體還留在那片森林裡那麼傳統的方法調查紅毛猩猩，都是徒步走在森林裡背着笨重的器材並用雙筒望遠鏡在樹梢尋找你很可能在樹梢找到一隻猩猩或其巢穴你可以想像的到那是個非常費時費力又昂貴的方法所以我們其實是希望無人機能顯著的減少其成本於調查在印尼的紅毛猩猩及東南亞其他地方的數量所以我們非常激動，當我們以攝影機拍到我們第一對紅毛猩猩巢穴就是這個；這就是有史以來第一張相片以無人機拍到的紅毛猩猩巢穴從那時起我們又拍了數打的這種巢穴的照片是從東南亞不同區域拍的現在我們與電腦科學家合作寫程式以自動計算巢穴的數量，從成千上萬我們收集到的照片中計算 但巢穴並不是唯一無人機能偵測到的物體這是隻野生紅毛猩猩在一棵棕櫚樹上餵奶幾乎無視我們的無人機從頭上飛過不止一次，很多次我們還拍了其它動物的相片包括加彭國的非洲紅水牛大象甚至是烏龜巢 但除了拍攝動物本身的相片我們還拍了這些動物的棲地因為我們想追蹤這些棲地的健康狀況有時候我們縮小鏡頭一點點看看其他還有可能發生在這片大地上的事這是一座位於蘇門答臘上的油棕樹園現在油棕樹是森林砍伐的主要元兇在世界的那塊區域所以我們想要使用這種新的無人機技術以追蹤這種農園在東南亞的傳播速度但無人機也能拿來追蹤非法伐木活動這是最近才被砍伐的森林還是在蘇門答臘你甚至還能看見處理過的木板留在地上 但或許最令人興奮的部分與空拍有關的是我們可以在之後把這些照片接起來用特別的軟體來製造一幅地圖是整個地面景觀的，而這張地圖給我們重要的資訊來監測土地使用的變遷讓我們知道在何處何時農園可能擴張哪裡的森林可能因此縮小或哪裡可能有火燒森林的情況空拍圖也能被再處理以製造三度空間電腦模擬的森林現在這些模擬不只是視覺好看而已他們在幾何上也很正確也就是說研究員現在能測量樹與樹間的距離計算表面積，植被的體積等等，所有這些都是重要的資料用以監測這些森林的健康狀態最近，我們也開始實驗使用熱像儀現在這些攝像機能偵測在地面放熱的物體因此這些相機對偵測盜獵者或是他們夜間生的營火非常有用 所以我已經告訴你不少關於什麼是保育型無人機你可以如何操作一架這種無人機及無人機能為你做些什麼我現在還要告訴你保育型無人機可在全世界的那裡被使用我們在瑞士造了第一批無人機的原型機我們拿了幾個到印尼來做首次的幾個試飛從那時起，我們又造了無人機給我們在全世界的合作單位而這些單位包括了幾位資深生物學家及主要保育機構的幾位合夥人 或許最棒及最有成就感的部分在與這些合作者共事之處就是他們給予我們的回饋意見該如何改善我們的無人機對我們而言造無人機是持續不斷的工作我們不斷地嘗試改善它們，無論在它們的航程，它們的耐用性及它們能承載的有效載荷量都有我們也與合作者共事開發新方法使用這些無人機舉個例，相機陷阱是常見的工具被生物學家拿來捕捉害羞的動物藏在森林裡的照片但這些是以動作感應觸發快門的相機所以每次一有動物穿越路徑就會拍下一張照片但相機陷阱的問題是研究員必須每隔一段時間就回到森林拿回相片而這很費時特別是如果有上打或上百的這種相機放在森林裡現在一架無人機可以設計來做這個工作效率就好多了這種無人機，載著一個特別的感應器可以飛越森林且遙控下載這些相片從可以無線上網的相機傳送 無線電追蹤項圈是另一種常被生物學家使用的工具那麼這些項圈被套在動物上它們傳輸一種無線電信號讓研究者追蹤這些動物在大地上的移動但這種傳統的追蹤動物法還挺好笑的因為這需要研究員在地上走來走去背着一個巨大又笨重的無線電天線就像我們以前用的那些老式的電視天線一樣架在屋頂上那種。我們中間應該還有人用一架無人機可以拿來做同樣的事還更有效率為什麼不在一架無人機上裝上掃描無線電接收器飛越整片林冠以特別的飛行模式能讓使用者或操縱者以三角測量法遙控測出這些帶著無線電項圈的動物而無需實際進入森林 第三種也可能是最令人振奮的無人機使用方法就是把它們飛到一個真正偏僻從未被人探險過的雨林那些藏在熱帶地區的秘境然後以降落傘降下一個很小的間諜麥克風能讓我們竊聽哺乳動物、鳥類及兩棲類的叫聲還有雪怪、野人、大腳怪，什麼都可以那將給我們這些生物學者一個起碼的概念有什麼動物可能住在那些森林裡 而最後，我想給各位看我們最新款的保育型無人機這款 MAJA 無人機有大約兩公尺的翼展重量僅約兩公斤但它可以承載其一半重量它是全自治系統在任務中，它可以傳輸現場直播的影像回去地面站的筆電這樣能讓使用者即時看到無人機所看到的東西它也攜帶各式感應器而其中一些感應器的相片畫質可高達每像素一至二公分這個無人機可以在空中飛行 40 到 60 分鐘這可使航程達到 50 公里這對大部分保育行動都很夠用 那麼，保育型無人機從兩個生物學家的瘋狂點子開始他們只是深深熱愛著這項科技而我們相信，強烈地相信無人機可以，並將成為改變遊戲規則的器具以用在保育研究及應用上我們已經得到太多的懷疑及批評他們認為我們只是把弄著玩具飛機鬼混從某種程度上看，他們是對的我的意思是，說實話無人機的確是男孩們的終極玩具但同時我們也必須瞭解許多優秀的同事及合作者與我們同享願景並看到保育型無人機的潛能對我們而言，毫無疑問地，生態保育學家及從事這行的人都應該充分利用手邊可用的每一項工具，包括無人機在我們拯救這星球上最後僅存的森林及野生動物的奮鬥中 謝謝 （掌聲）
