Talk	en	zh-tw
linda_hill_how_to_manage_for_collective_creativity	"I have a confession to make. I'm a business professor whose ambition has been to help people learn to lead. But recently, I've discovered that what many of us think of as great leadership does not work when it comes to leading innovation. I'm an ethnographer. I use the methods of anthropology to understand the questions in which I'm interested. So along with three co-conspirators, I spent nearly a decade observing up close and personal exceptional leaders of innovation. We studied 16 men and women, located in seven countries across the globe, working in 12 different industries. In total, we spent hundreds of hours on the ground, on-site, watching these leaders in action. We ended up with pages and pages and pages of field notes that we analyzed and looked for patterns in what our leaders did. The bottom line? If we want to build organizations that can innovate time and again, we must unlearn our conventional notions of leadership. Leading innovation is not about creating a vision, and inspiring others to execute it. But what do we mean by innovation? An innovation is anything that is both new and useful. It can be a product or service. It can be a process or a way of organizing. It can be incremental, or it can be breakthrough. We have a pretty inclusive definition. How many of you recognize this man? Put your hands up. Keep your hands up, if you know who this is. How about these familiar faces? (Laughter) From your show of hands, it looks like many of you have seen a Pixar movie, but very few of you recognized Ed Catmull, the founder and CEO of Pixar — one of the companies I had the privilege of studying. My first visit to Pixar was in 2005, when they were working on ""Ratatouille,"" that provocative movie about a rat becoming a master chef. Computer-generated movies are really mainstream today, but it took Ed and his colleagues nearly 20 years to create the first full-length C.G. movie. In the 20 years hence, they've produced 14 movies. I was recently at Pixar, and I'm here to tell you that number 15 is sure to be a winner. When many of us think about innovation, though, we think about an Einstein having an 'Aha!' moment. But we all know that's a myth. Innovation is not about solo genius, it's about collective genius. Let's think for a minute about what it takes to make a Pixar movie: No solo genius, no flash of inspiration produces one of those movies. On the contrary, it takes about 250 people four to five years, to make one of those movies. To help us understand the process, an individual in the studio drew a version of this picture. He did so reluctantly, because it suggested that the process  was a neat series of steps done by discrete groups. Even with all those arrows, he thought it failed to really tell you just how iterative, interrelated and, frankly, messy their process was. Throughout the making of a movie at Pixar, the story evolves. So think about it. Some shots go through quickly. They don't all go through in order. It depends on how vexing the challenges are that they come up with when they are working on a particular scene. So if you think about that scene in ""Up"" where the boy hands the piece of chocolate to the bird, that 10 seconds took one animator almost six months to perfect. The other thing about a Pixar movie is that no part of the movie is considered finished until the entire movie wraps. Partway through one production, an animator drew a character with an arched eyebrow that suggested a mischievous side. When the director saw that drawing, he thought it was great. It was beautiful, but he said, ""You've got to lose it; it doesn't fit the character."" Two weeks later, the director came back and said, ""Let's put in those few seconds of film."" Because that animator was allowed to share what we referred to as his slice of genius, he was able to help that director reconceive the character in a subtle but important way that really improved the story. What we know is, at the heart of innovation is a paradox. You have to unleash the talents and passions of many people and you have to harness them into a work that is actually useful. Innovation is a journey. It's a type of collaborative problem solving, usually among people who have different expertise and different points of view. Innovations rarely get created full-blown. As many of you know, they're the result, usually, of trial and error. Lots of false starts, missteps and mistakes. Innovative work can be very exhilarating, but it also can be really downright scary. So when we look at why it is that Pixar is able to do what it does, we have to ask ourselves, what's going on here? For sure, history and certainly Hollywood, is full of star-studded teams that have failed. Most of those failures are attributed to too many stars or too many cooks, if you will, in the kitchen. So why is it that Pixar, with all of its cooks, is able to be so successful time and time again? When we studied an Islamic Bank in Dubai, or a luxury brand in Korea, or a social enterprise in Africa, we found that innovative organizations are communities that have three capabilities: creative abrasion, creative agility and creative resolution. Creative abrasion is about being able to create a marketplace of ideas through debate and discourse. In innovative organizations, they amplify differences, they don't minimize them. Creative abrasion is not about brainstorming, where people suspend their judgment. No, they know how to have very heated but constructive arguments to create a portfolio of alternatives. Individuals in innovative organizations learn how to inquire, they learn how to actively listen, but guess what? They also learn how to advocate for their point of view. They understand that innovation rarely happens unless you have both diversity and conflict. Creative agility is about being able to test and refine that portfolio of ideas through quick pursuit, reflection and adjustment. It's about discovery-driven learning where you act, as opposed to plan, your way to the future. It's about design thinking where you have that interesting combination of the scientific method and the artistic process. It's about running a series of experiments, and not a series of pilots. Experiments are usually about learning. When you get a negative outcome, you're still really learning something that you need to know. Pilots are often about being right. When they don't work, someone or something is to blame. The final capability is creative resolution. This is about doing decision making in a way that you can actually combine even opposing ideas to reconfigure them in new combinations to produce a solution that is new and useful. When you look at innovative organizations, they never go along to get along. They don't compromise. They don't let one group or one individual dominate, even if it's the boss, even if it's the expert. Instead, they have developed a rather patient and more inclusive decision making process that allows for both/and solutions to arise and not simply either/or solutions. These three capabilities are why we see that Pixar is able to do what it does. Let me give you another example, and that example is the infrastructure group of Google. The infrastructure group of Google is the group that has to keep the website up and running 24/7. So when Google was about to introduce Gmail and YouTube, they knew that their data storage system wasn't adequate. The head of the engineering group and the infrastructure group at that time was a man named Bill Coughran. Bill and his leadership team, who he referred to as his brain trust, had to figure out what to do about this situation. They thought about it for a while. Instead of creating a group to tackle this task, they decided to allow groups to emerge spontaneously around different alternatives. Two groups coalesced. One became known as Big Table, the other became known as Build It From Scratch. Big Table proposed that they build on the current system. Build It From Scratch proposed that it was time for a whole new system. Separately, these two teams were allowed to work full-time on their particular approach. In engineering reviews, Bill described his role as, ""Injecting honesty into the process by driving debate."" Early on, the teams were encouraged to build prototypes so that they could ""bump them up against reality and discover for themselves the strengths and weaknesses of their particular approach."" When Build It From Scratch shared their prototype with the group whose beepers would have to go off in the middle of the night if something went wrong with the website, they heard loud and clear about the limitations of their particular design. As the need for a solution became more urgent and as the data, or the evidence, began to come in, it became pretty clear that the Big Table solution was the right one for the moment. So they selected that one. But to make sure that they did not lose the learning of the Build it From Scratch team, Bill asked two members of that team to join a new team that was emerging to work on the next-generation system. This whole process took nearly two years, but I was told that they were all working at breakneck speed. Early in that process, one of the engineers had gone to Bill and said, ""We're all too busy for this inefficient system of running parallel experiments."" But as the process unfolded, he began to understand the wisdom of allowing talented people to play out their passions. He admitted, ""If you had forced us to all be on one team, we might have focused on proving who was right, and winning, and not on learning and discovering what was the best answer for Google."" Why is it that Pixar and Google are able to innovate time and again? It's because they've mastered the capabilities required for that. They know how to do collaborative problem solving, they know how to do discovery-driven learning and they know how to do integrated decision making. Some of you may be sitting there and saying to yourselves right now, ""We don't know how to do those things in my organization. So why do they know how to do those things at Pixar, and why do they know how to do those things at Google?"" When many of the people that worked for Bill told us, in their opinion, that Bill was one of the finest leaders in Silicon Valley, we completely agreed; the man is a genius. Leadership is the secret sauce. But it's a different kind of leadership, not the kind many of us think about when we think about great leadership. One of the leaders I met with early on said to me, ""Linda, I don't read books on leadership. All they do is make me feel bad."" (Laughter) ""In the first chapter they say I'm supposed to create a vision. But if I'm trying to do something that's truly new, I have no answers. I don't know what direction we're going in and I'm not even sure I know how to figure out how to get there."" For sure, there are times when visionary leadership is exactly what is needed. But if we want to build organizations that can innovate time and again, we must recast our understanding of what leadership is about. Leading innovation is about creating the space where people are willing and able to do the hard work of innovative problem solving. At this point, some of you may be wondering, ""What does that leadership really look like?"" At Pixar, they understand that innovation takes a village. The leaders focus on building a sense of community and building those three capabilities. How do they define leadership? They say leadership is about creating a world to which people want to belong. What kind of world do people want to belong in at Pixar? A world where you're living at the frontier. What do they focus their time on? Not on creating a vision. Instead they spend their time thinking about, ""How do we design a studio that has the sensibility of a public square so that people will interact? Let's put in a policy that anyone, no matter what their level or role, is allowed to give notes to the director about how they feel about a particular film. What can we do to make sure that all the disruptors, all the minority voices in this organization, speak up and are heard? And, finally, let's bestow credit in a very generous way."" I don't know if you've ever looked at the credits of a Pixar movie, but the babies born during a production are listed there. (Laughter) How did Bill think about what his role was? Bill said, ""I lead a volunteer organization. Talented people don't want to follow me anywhere. They want to cocreate with me the future. My job is to nurture the bottom-up and not let it degenerate into chaos."" How did he see his role? ""I'm a role model, I'm a human glue, I'm a connector, I'm an aggregator of viewpoints. I'm never a dictator of viewpoints."" Advice about how you exercise the role? Hire people who argue with you. And, guess what? Sometimes it's best to be deliberately fuzzy and vague. Some of you may be wondering now, what are these people thinking? They're thinking, ""I'm not the visionary, I'm the social architect. I'm creating the space where people are willing and able to share and combine their talents and passions."" If some of you are worrying now that you don't work at a Pixar, or you don't work at a Google, I want to tell you there's still hope. We've studied many organizations that were really not organizations you'd think of as ones where a lot of innovation happens. We studied a general counsel in a pharmaceutical company who had to figure out how to get the outside lawyers, 19 competitors, to collaborate and innovate. We studied the head of marketing at a German automaker where, fundamentally, they believed that it was the design engineers, not the marketeers, who were allowed to be innovative. We also studied Vineet Nayar at HCL Technologies, an Indian outsourcing company. When we met Vineet, his company was about, in his words, to become irrelevant. We watched as he turned that company into a global dynamo of I.T. innovation. At HCL technologies, like at many companies, the leaders had learned to see their role as setting direction and making sure that no one deviated from it. What he did is tell them it was time for them to think about rethinking what they were supposed to do. Because what was happening is that everybody was looking up and you weren't seeing the kind of bottom-up innovation we saw at Pixar or Google. So they began to work on that. They stopped giving answers, they stopped trying to provide solutions. Instead, what they did is they began to see the people at the bottom of the pyramid, the young sparks, the people who were closest to the customers, as the source of innovation. They began to transfer the organization's growth to that level. In Vineet's language, this was about inverting the pyramid so that you could unleash the power of the many by loosening the stranglehold of the few, and increase the quality and the speed of innovation that was happening every day. For sure, Vineet and all the other leaders that we studied were in fact visionaries. For sure, they understood that that was not their role. So I don't think it is accidental that many of you did not recognize Ed. Because Ed, like Vineet, understands that our role as leaders is to set the stage, not perform on it. If we want to invent a better future, and I suspect that's why many of us are here, then we need to reimagine our task. Our task is to create the space where everybody's slices of genius can be unleashed and harnessed, and turned into works of collective genius. Thank you. (Applause)"	有件事我必須坦白：我是一位商學教授，我亟欲教導人們如何當個領導者。但最近我發現，大多數人觀念中優秀的領導能力在創新這方面並不適用。 我是一名民族誌學者。我運用人類學來了解我感興趣的問題。因此，我與三位夥伴一起，花了將近十年，仔細觀察優秀的創新領導者。我們研究了16位男性與女性，他們分布於世界上七個不同國家，投身於十二種不同產業。我們總共花了幾百個小時在現場，觀察這些領導人的工作情形，記錄下一頁又一頁的實地考察筆記，並且分析這些領導者是否有特定領導模式。重點是？若我們想創立一個能夠持續進行創新的機構，我們就必須跳脫傳統領導觀念的框架。 創新領導不只是創造新視野，並後激勵他人來執行。我們所謂創新，究竟是什麼？創新可以是任何新穎、有用的東西。可以是產品，或是服務，可以是過程，也可以是組織的方法，可以是提升，也可以是突破。我們對其有許多定義。 在座有多少人知道此人？知道的請舉手。如果你們也知道這是誰，請繼續舉手。那⋯這些熟面孔呢？(笑聲)從大家這些高舉的手，看來很多人都看過皮克斯動畫，但很少人能認出艾德·凱特穆，也就是「皮克斯動畫」的創辦人兼執行長——那是我有幸能研究的幾家公司之一。 我第一次拜訪皮克斯動畫是在2005年，當時他們正在製作《料理鼠王》，這部備受討論的電影講述一隻老鼠變成大廚的故事。在今天，電腦動畫電影儼然已成主流。但艾德和他的同事花了將近20年時間，才完成第一部完整長度的電腦動畫電影。此後20年，他們又製作了14部電影。我最近也去了皮克斯公司，我可以告訴你：第十五部電影一定會造成轟動。 當我們想到「創新」時，腦中可能是愛因斯坦靈光一現時的樣子。但我們都知道那只是我們的想像。創新指的不是一個孤立的天才，它指的是集體才華。讓我們想想看，需要多少努力才能造就一部皮克斯動畫電影。單一才華、片刻靈感皆無法完成任何一部動畫電影。相反地，大約250人花上四、五年才能完成一部動畫電影。 為了讓我們了解製作過程，一位皮克斯工作室員工畫了這麽一張圖。他做得很不情願，因為從這張圖我們就可以看出：製作過程由一系列繁瑣的步驟構成，每個步驟都被嚴謹地分組完成。即使有這些箭頭的標注，他仍然覺得這張圖無法真正讓你認識到這個流程有多麼的迭代、相互關聯，而且⋯說實話，很混亂。 皮克斯在做電影的過程中，故事會不斷演化。所以我們想一下：有些鏡頭過得很快⋯⋯他們的工作不全是按順序進行的。這取決於他們製作時遇到的挑戰有多惱火。在製作不同場景時，遇到的挑戰也會不同。所以，例如《天外奇蹟》裡的一個情景就是那個小男孩抵給鳥巧克力的畫面，那十秒的鏡頭，花了一個繪製師將近六個月去完善它。 關於皮克斯電影的另外一件事是：電影的任何部份都不會被當做成品直到整個電影製作完工。製作到一半時，繪製師給人物畫了一根拱形的眉毛，以體現他淘氣的一面。當導演看到繪圖的時候，他覺得很棒。很漂亮。但是他說：「你要裁掉它，它與角色的設定不符」兩個星期後，導演回來又說：「讓我們把那個眉毛放幾秒鐘在電影裡吧」因為那位繪製師有機會分享他的天才點子，使他能夠幫助導演重新塑造這個角色。用微小但是重要的方式切實地改善了故事。 所以我們從這裡知道，創新的核心是矛盾的。你既要釋放大家的才能和激情，又要控制他們去做有效的事。創新是道旅程。是一種協作式的解決方案，它通常發生在一個成員各有所長、視角多元化的團隊中。 創新很少是一開始就成熟的。正如你們大多數人所知創新本身其實是個「結果」，是多次試錯之後的結果。很多很多錯誤的開始、錯誤的步驟，還有大量的失誤。創造性的工作可以特別過癮，也可以特別可怕。所以當我們在思考「皮克斯是怎麼做到的」，我們要問我們自己，究竟發生了什麼？ 當然，無論是歷史上還是好萊塢裡，充滿了曾經失敗過的星級團隊。幾乎所有的失敗，都歸結於團隊裡有過多的明星，就像一個廚房裡塞進了太多的廚師。所以 為什麼皮克斯和它的廚師們，可以一次又一次地獲得成功？當我們在迪拜研究一個伊斯蘭銀行，或在韓國研究一個奢侈品牌，或在非洲研究社交網絡創業公司時，我們發現這些創新組織，都擁有三種能力：「創意摩擦」、「創造的靈活性」和「創造性的解決方案」。「創意摩擦」是通過辯論和討論，創造一個「創意」的交流平台。在創新機構裡，他們將差異放大，他們並不將差別減小。創意摩擦不是腦力激盪。（人們只把想法丟出來）不，他們知道如何進行激烈而有意義的爭論。來創造出大量的不同構想。 在創新機構裡的個人，要學會如何詢問，學會如何時刻聆聽。但是你知道嗎？他們還學著如何主張他們自己的觀點。他們知道：如果你不在團隊中保持多樣性和衝突，創新就很難發生。「創造的靈活性」是指，能夠通過快速的追索、反應和調整，來檢驗和提煉那些創想。這是一種探索式的學習，你不必按照計劃行事，未來的事沒有什麼是安排好的。是一種結合了科學方法和藝術過程的有趣的設計思維。它是進行一系列的實驗，而不是制定一系列的指導規範。 「實驗」往往就是學習的過程。當你得到負面結果時，你至少學到了這樣做是行不通的。而指導規範往往意味著絕對正確，如果你不按照指導的去做，就有人或事要被責怪了。最後一點是「創造性的解決方案」。這是關於決策制定的。你甚至要把截然相反的創想結合起來，重新塑造它們，做成新的組合。從而產生一個既新穎又有用的解決方案。當你在研究創新機構時，你會發現他們既不與人隔絕，也不好好相處，他們就是不妥協。他們不讓任何一個人或者團隊做主，即使是老闆也不行，即使是專家也不行。相反，他們創造了一種更加有耐心和包容力的決策方式，使得最後的解決方案不僅僅是從幾個創想中挑出一個，還有可能是同時用上好幾個創想。這三種能力，就是皮克斯能夠做到現在這樣的原因。 我來給你們另外一個例子，那是Google的基礎設施部門。Google的基礎設施部門負責網站每天24小時都運作。所以當Google要推出 Gmail 和 YouTube 時，他們意識到，他們現有的數據存儲容量不夠用了。當時，工程組和基礎設施組的組長是一個叫Bill Coughran的人。Bill和他的領導小組——也就是他的智囊團，需要想方法解決這個問題。他們想了一段時間。最終，他們不是為此建一個小組去處理問題；而是讓大家根據自己支持的觀點，自然地分組。 結果他們合併出了兩個組合。一個被成為 Big Table (大桌子)，另一個叫 Build it From Scratch (無中生有)。Big Table小組建議他們在現有的系統基礎上再建，Build it From Scratch小組則覺得是時候把整個系統換成全新的了。這兩組分別投入時間去按照各自的想法工作。從工程的角度來看，Bill 稱他的角色是「通過引起辯論，向工作進程中注入真誠」。 早些時候，每隊被鼓勵去造出樣品，這樣他們就能和現實做比較，並且發現他們自己和對手之間的強項和弱點。當Build it From Scratch分享他們的模型時（如果網站出現問題時，它通過傳呼機報警。但如果發生在半夜，有些人的傳呼機是關閉的）他們被明確的告知這個設計缺陷。當對解決方案的需要越來越緊急時，——而且大量數據已經開始進入系統，很明顯的，Big Table的解決方案是對當前來說更適合的。所以他們選擇了Big Table。 但是為了確保他們沒有丟失向Build it From Scratch小組學習的機會，Bill讓Build it From Scratch的兩名隊員和Big Table一起組建了一個新的團隊，去開發下一代系統。這整個過程花了將近兩年，但我聽說他們每個成員都在極速工作。 過程的早期，一個工程師曾對Bill說：「這個沒有效率的平行實驗，讓我們每個人都忙得焦頭爛額。」隨著工作進程的展開，他也開始明白了這種，讓有才能的人發揮自己熱情的智慧。他承認，「如果你只讓我們關注一個小組，我們有可能只會關注誰對誰贏，而不會去學習和發現對Google最有利的答案」 所以，為什麼皮克斯和Google可以不斷地創新？這是因為他們已經掌握了所需的能力。他們知道如何創造協同解決方案，他們知道如何探索性地學習，而且他們還知道如何做整合性的決策。 你們中有些人有可能正坐在那裡，對自己說：「我們並不知道怎麼在我的機構裡做那些事情。所以，為什麼皮克斯會知道那麼做？為什麼Google也知道該這麼做？」當很多為Bill工作過的人告訴我們，他們覺得，Bill是矽谷最出色的領導人之一。我們完全贊同，那個人是個天才。 領導力是一種秘密調料。但是那是一種不一樣的領導力，不是那種，我們都會想到的偉大的領導力。我之前見到的一位領導者告訴我，「Linda，我不看講領導力的書。它們只會讓我感覺不好。」(笑聲)「第一章 他們說我應該創造一個景象。但是如果我是真的在嘗試新的東西，我想像不出來。我不知道我們的方向，而且我都不知道怎麼達到目標。」當然，有時候，有預見性的領導力是非常重要的。 但是如果我們想建造有創新力的機構，我們必須重新認識什麼是領導力。領導創新，等於創造一個空間——讓大家願意，並且能夠努力工作，去創新性解決問題。 此時，你們中一些人有可能在想：「那種領導力到底是什麼樣子的？」在皮克斯，它們很清楚創新需要的東西很多。領導者關注於建造一種社區感和培養那三個能力 (創意摩擦，創造的靈活性和創造性的解決方案)他們是怎麼定義領導力的？他們說領導力就是創造一個世界，一個人們想存在的世界。在皮克斯工作的人想存在與哪樣的世界呢？一個你永遠處於前端的世界。他們把時間都用在哪裡了？不是在創造理念上。取而代之，他們把時間用在思考「我們怎麼才能設計出一個工作室，它能創造出一個能激起人們交流慾望的公共空間？」我們來定一個規矩：任何人，不看職位和角色都能直接向導演反應意見。表達他們對某部電影的想法。我們怎麼樣才能確保所有的反對者，所有弱勢群體的聲音能在我們這個組織發出和被聽見呢？所以最後，讓我們大方的授予功勞吧。我不知道你們有沒有看過皮克斯電影里的「感謝名單」，在製片期間出生的新生兒也列在名單上。(笑聲) 那麼，Bill是如何看待自己的角色的呢？Bill 說「我帶領的是一個『志願組織』。有才能的人才不想總聽我的指示。他們（留在公司裡），是想和我一起創造未來。我的工作是把他們從下層扶持到頂峰，並且避免這個過程中發生混亂。」他是如何看到他自己的角色的呢?「我是一個榜樣，一個人類膠水，我是一個連接體，我是一個觀點的聚集者，我從來不是觀點的獨裁者。」實踐你的角色的忠告呢？「招聘能和你爭論的人。」還有一點，你猜是什麼？「有時候，最好故意把態度表現得含糊不清。」 你們其中有些人現在有可能在想，「這些人都在想些什麼？」他們在想，我不是一個有遠見的領導者，我是個社會建築師。我在創造一個人們願意並且能夠分享和結合他們的才能和熱情的空間。如果在座的有人在擔心：我既不在皮克斯工作，也不在Google工作。我想告訴你，還有希望。我們研究了很多機構，一些你想不到的機構，那裡同樣出現了很多創新。 我們研究了一個製藥公司的主管。他在想辦法讓外面的律師，19個競爭對手，去合作和創新。我們研究了一個德國汽車商的銷售主管。他們從根本上認為，設計工程師才是需要創新的。而不僅是那些銷售人員。我們也研究了在HCL科技工作的Vineet Nayar。HCL是一家印度外包公司。但我們見到Vinnet的時候，對於他來說，他的公司正變得無關緊要。我們親眼見證他把他的公司變成了一個全球IT創新的發電機。在HCL科技，像很多公司一樣，領導者需要清楚他們自己是負責設定目標的角色，並且確保沒有人偏離軌道。而他所做的是：告訴他們，現在是該他們重新思考，應該做什麼的時間。因為，在這之前，所有人都在往上看，而你卻沒有看到底層的創新。沒有看到我們在皮克斯和Google看到的那種創新。所以他們開始在這方面下功夫， 他們停止給出答案，他們停止給出解決方式。取而代之，他們開始看見金字塔底端的 年輕的火花。他們是最接近消費者的人，是創新的源泉。他們開始將機構的成長轉變爲另一個等級。用Vinnet的話來說，這是顛倒金字塔。這樣就可以釋放多數人的能力，解掉少數人的束縛，並且增強創新的質量和速度。這樣的改變每天都在發生。 當然，Vineet和眾多我們研究過的領導者都是非常有遠見的人。而且，他們也清楚的知道自己不該是那種總是做決定的人。所以我並不認為你們大多數人不認識艾德（皮克斯創始人）是個巧合。因為艾德就像Vinnet一樣，明白自己作為領導者的角色是去為別人創造一個舞台，而不是自己一個人的表演。如果我們想打造一個更好的未來，（我認為這是大多數我們在場的原因）那麼我們需要重新想像我們的任務。我們的任務是創造空間，在那裡每一個人天才的一面，都會被發覺、被釋放、被利用，並且被整合成集體的智慧。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
