Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_bu_how_books_can_open_your_mind	"So I was trained to become a gymnast for two years in Hunan, China in the 1970s. When I was in the first grade, the government wanted to transfer me to a school for athletes, all expenses paid. But my tiger mother said, ""No."" My parents wanted me to become an engineer like them. After surviving the Cultural Revolution, they firmly believed there's only one sure way to happiness: a safe and well-paid job. It is not important if I like the job or not. But my dream was to become a Chinese opera singer. That is me playing my imaginary piano. An opera singer must start training young to learn acrobatics, so I tried everything I could to go to opera school. I even wrote to the school principal and the host of a radio show. But no adults liked the idea. No adults believed I was serious. Only my friends supported me, but they were kids, just as powerless as I was. So at age 15, I knew I was too old to be trained. My dream would never come true. I was afraid that for the rest of my life some second-class happiness would be the best I could hope for. But that's so unfair. So I was determined to find another calling. Nobody around to teach me? Fine. I turned to books. I satisfied my hunger for parental advice from this book by a family of writers and musicians.[""Correspondence in the Family of Fou Lei""] I found my role model of an independent woman when Confucian tradition requires obedience.[""Jane Eyre""] And I learned to be efficient from this book.[""Cheaper by the Dozen""] And I was inspired to study abroad after reading these. [""Complete Works of Sanmao"" (aka Echo Chan)] [""Lessons From History"" by Nan Huaijin] I came to the U.S. in 1995, so which books did I read here first? Books banned in China, of course. ""The Good Earth"" is about Chinese peasant life. That's just not convenient for propaganda. Got it. The Bible is interesting, but strange. (Laughter) That's a topic for a different day. But the fifth commandment gave me an epiphany: ""You shall honor your father and mother."" ""Honor,"" I said. ""That's so different, and better, than obey."" So it becomes my tool to climb out of this Confucian guilt trap and to restart my relationship with my parents. Encountering a new culture also started my habit of comparative reading. It offers many insights. For example, I found this map out of place at first because this is what Chinese students grew up with. It had never occurred to me, China doesn't have to be at the center of the world. A map actually carries somebody's view. Comparative reading actually is nothing new. It's a standard practice in the academic world. There are even research fields such as comparative religion and comparative literature. Compare and contrast gives scholars a more complete understanding of a topic. So I thought, well, if comparative reading works for research, why not do it in daily life too? So I started reading books in pairs. So they can be about people — [""Benjamin Franklin"" by Walter Isaacson][""John Adams"" by David McCullough] — who are involved in the same event, or friends with shared experiences. [""Personal History"" by Katharine Graham][""The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life,"" by Alice Schroeder] I also compare the same stories in different genres — (Laughter) [Holy Bible: King James Version][""Lamb"" by Chrisopher Moore] — or similar stories from different cultures, as Joseph Campbell did in his wonderful book.[""The Power of Myth"" by Joseph Campbell] For example, both the Christ and the Buddha went through three temptations. For the Christ, the temptations are economic, political and spiritual. For the Buddha, they are all psychological: lust, fear and social duty — interesting. So if you know a foreign language, it's also fun to read your favorite books in two languages. [""The Way of Chuang Tzu"" Thomas Merton][""Tao: The Watercourse Way"" Alan Watts] Instead of lost in translation, I found there is much to gain. For example, it's through translation that I realized ""happiness"" in Chinese literally means ""fast joy."" Huh! ""Bride"" in Chinese literally means ""new mother."" Uh-oh. (Laughter) Books have given me a magic portal to connect with people of the past and the present. I know I shall never feel lonely or powerless again. Having a dream shattered really is nothing compared to what many others have suffered. I have come to believe that coming true is not the only purpose of a dream. Its most important purpose is to get us in touch with where dreams come from, where passion comes from, where happiness comes from. Even a shattered dream can do that for you. So because of books, I'm here today, happy, living again with a purpose and a clarity, most of the time. So may books be always with you. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	七十年代時我在中國湖南練過兩年體操當我上小學一年級時政府想讓我轉學去體校一切免費但我虎媽說「不行」我父母希望我長大後像他們一樣當工程師在文革中倖存下來後他們堅定地認為通往幸福的路只有一條即是一個穩定高薪的工作至於我喜不喜歡那個工作並不重要 但我的夢想卻是成為黃梅戲演員那是我在彈假想的鋼琴戲曲演員必須從小開始學身段功夫我想盡了一切辦法希望能去黃梅戲學校甚至寫信給戲校校長和一個電台節目主持人但沒一個大人喜歡那個主意沒一個大人相信我是認真的只有朋友們支持我但他們也是小孩和我一樣無能為力十五歲時我知道自己要學戲已經年紀太大我的夢想再也不能實現我擔心在餘下的一生裡自己的使命就是得到些二流幸福而已 那太不公平了我暗下決心要為自己尋找另一個使命周圍無人賜教？沒什麼大不了我從書中學習 《傅雷家書》滿足了我對長輩教誨的期盼寫書的傅家是一個作家、音樂家薈萃的家庭 我從《簡愛》這本書中找到了獨立女性的榜樣儘管儒家傳統教人聽話順從 我從《效率專家爸爸》這本書中學會高效率 這幾本書燃起了我對出國深造的渴望 （《三毛全集》、南懷瑾的《歷史的經驗》） 我1995年來美國在美國我首先讀什麼書呢？當然是中國的禁書《大地》講的是中國農民的故事真實得不方便用來做政治宣傳，懂了吧《聖經》很有趣，但也很奇怪（笑聲）那個話題他日再聊但十誡中的第五誡給了我靈感：「你應榮耀你的父母」我心裡一動，「榮耀」不等於而且遠勝於「服從」它成為我爬出儒家負罪感的工具讓我重建與父母的關係 來到一個新文化環境也促成我比較閱讀的習慣它讓人讀得更深刻舉個例子，第一次看到這幅地圖時我覺得它有些怪因為這才是中國大陸學生從小到大使用的世界地圖我之前從未意識到原來中國不一定非要位於世界地圖中央原來地圖帶著某種視角比較閱讀並不新鮮它是學術界裡的一種標準做法比較文學、比較宗教學甚至成為專門的研究領域 對比對照讓學者們對一個課題有更全面的了解我琢磨著，既然比較閱讀對研究有用為什麼不把它用於日常生活中呢？我開始把書成對來讀它們可以是關於（《本傑明•富蘭克林》、《約翰•亞當斯》）同一事件的不同當事人或兩個有共同經歷的朋友（凱瑟琳·格雷厄姆的《個人歷史》、巴菲特傳記《雪球》）我還把故事相同但文體不同的書做對比（《聖經》、小說《羔羊》）或對比那些來自不同文化的相似故事象約瑟夫·坎貝爾在其傑作《神話的力量》中所做的那樣舉個例子，耶穌和佛祖都經歷了三大誘惑耶穌經歷的是經濟、政治和精神誘惑佛祖經歷的則都是心理誘惑慾望、恐懼和社會責任 — 有意思 如果你懂外語把你喜歡的書的兩個語言版本對比讀也很有意思（托馬斯·默頓翻譯的《莊子》、阿倫·瓦特翻譯的《道德經》）人們常說翻譯總有缺失我卻發現翻譯也可以帶來收穫舉個例子，是翻譯使我意識到原來中文「快樂」一詞的字面意思可解為「快速歡樂」，呃！中文「新娘」一詞的字面意思可解為「新媽媽」，天啊！（笑聲） 書已成為我與古人今人溝通的一個神奇門戶讓我再不會覺得孤單無助與其他人的苦難相比夢想破滅算不了什麼我漸漸意識到美夢成真並非夢想的唯一目的它最重要目的是讓我們與夢想來源的地方熱情來源的地方和快樂來源的地方保持聯繫哪怕一個破滅的夢想也能讓你做到 因為書，我今天得以在此在大部分時候，快樂地活著生活的目標和意義重新變得明確希望書永遠與你相伴 謝謝 （掌聲） 謝謝（掌聲） 謝謝（掌聲）
