Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_nip_how_humans_could_evolve_to_survive_in_space	"So there are lands few and far between on Earth itself that are hospitable to humans by any measure, but survive we have. Our primitive ancestors, when they found their homes and livelihood endangered, they dared to make their way into unfamiliar territories in search of better opportunities. And as the descendants of these explorers, we have their nomadic blood coursing through our own veins. But at the same time, distracted by our bread and circuses and embroiled in the wars that we have waged on each other, it seems that we have forgotten this desire to explore. We, as a species, we're evolved uniquely for Earth, on Earth, and by Earth, and so content are we with our living conditions that we have grown complacent and just too busy to notice that its resources are finite, and that our Sun's life is also finite. While Mars and all the movies made in its name have reinvigorated the ethos for space travel, few of us seem to truly realize that our species' fragile constitution is woefully unprepared for long duration journeys into space. Let us take a trek to your local national forest for a quick reality check. So just a quick show of hands here: how many of you think you would be able to survive in this lush wilderness for a few days? Well, that's a lot of you. How about a few weeks? That's a decent amount. How about a few months? That's pretty good too. Now, let us imagine that this local national forest experiences an eternal winter. Same questions: how many of you think you would be able to survive for a few days? That's quite a lot. How about a few weeks? So for a fun twist, let us imagine that the only source of water available is trapped as frozen blocks miles below the surface. Soil nutrients are so minimal that no vegetation can be found, and of course hardly any atmosphere exists to speak of. Such examples are only a few of the many challenges we would face on a planet like Mars. So how do we steel ourselves for voyages whose destinations are so far removed from a tropical vacation? Will we continuously ship supplies from Planet Earth? Build space elevators, or impossible miles of transport belts that tether your planet of choice to our home planet? And how do we grow things like food that grew up on Earth like us? But I'm getting ahead of myself. In our species' journey to find a new home under a new sun, we are more likely than not going to be spending much time in the journey itself, in space, on a ship, a hermetic flying can, possibly for many generations. The longest continuous amount of time that any human has spent in space is in the vicinity of 12 to 14 months. From astronauts' experiences in space, we know that spending time in a microgravity environment means bone loss, muscle atrophy, cardiovascular problems, among many other complications that range for the physiological to the psychological. And what about macrogravity, or any other variation in gravitational pull of the planet that we find ourselves on? In short, our cosmic voyages will be fraught with dangers both known and unknown. So far we've been looking to this new piece of mechanical technology or that great next generation robot as part of a lineup to ensure our species safe passage in space. Wonderful as they are, I believe the time has come for us to complement these bulky electronic giants with what nature has already invented: the microbe, a single-celled organism that is itself a self-generating, self-replenishing, living machine. It requires fairly little to maintain, offers much flexibility in design and only asks to be carried in a single plastic tube. The field of study that has enabled us to utilize the capabilities of the microbe is known as synthetic biology. It comes from molecular biology, which has given us antibiotics, vaccines and better ways to observe the physiological nuances of the human body. Using the tools of synthetic biology, we can now edit the genes of nearly any organism, microscopic or not, with incredible speed and fidelity. Given the limitations of our man-made machines, synthetic biology will be a means for us to engineer not only our food, our fuel and our environment, but also ourselves to compensate for our physical inadequacies and to ensure our survival in space. To give you an example of how we can use synthetic biology for space exploration, let us return to the Mars environment. The Martian soil composition is similar to that of Hawaiian volcanic ash, with trace amounts of organic material. Let's say, hypothetically, what if martian soil could actually support plant growth without using Earth-derived nutrients? The first question we should probably ask is, how would we make our plants cold-tolerant? Because, on average, the temperature on Mars is a very uninviting negative 60 degrees centigrade. The next question we should ask is, how do we make our plants drought-tolerant? Considering that most of the water that forms as frost evaporates more quickly than I can say the word ""evaporate."" Well, it turns out we've already done things like this. By borrowing genes for anti-freeze protein from fish and genes for drought tolerance from other plants like rice and then stitching them into the plants that need them, we now have plants that can tolerate most droughts and freezes. They're known on Earth as GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, and we rely on them to feed all the mouths of human civilization. Nature does stuff like this already, without our help. We have simply found more precise ways to do it. So why would we want to change the genetic makeup of plants for space? Well, to not do so would mean needing to engineer endless acres of land on an entirely new planet by releasing trillions of gallons of atmospheric gasses and then constructing a giant glass dome to contain it all. It's an unrealistic engineering enterprise that quickly becomes a high-cost cargo transport mission. One of the best ways to ensure that we will have the food supplies and the air that we need is to bring with us organisms that have been engineered to adapt to new and harsh environments. In essence, using engineered organisms to help us terraform a planet both in the short and long term. These organisms can then also be engineered to make medicine or fuel. So we can use synthetic biology to bring highly engineered plants with us, but what else can we do? Well, I mentioned earlier that we, as a species, were evolved uniquely for planet Earth. That fact has not changed much in the last five minutes that you were sitting here and I was standing there. And so, if we were to dump any of us on Mars right this minute, even given ample food, water, air and a suit, we are likely to experience very unpleasant health problems from the amount of ionizing radiation that bombards the surface of planets like Mars that have little or nonexistent atmosphere. Unless we plan to stay holed up underground for the duration of our stay on every new planet, we must find better ways of protecting ourselves without needing to resort to wearing a suit of armor that weighs something equal to your own body weight, or needing to hide behind a wall of lead. So let us appeal to nature for inspiration. Among the plethora of life here on Earth, there's a subset of organisms known as extremophiles, or lovers of extreme living conditions, if you'll remember from high school biology. And among these organisms is a bacterium by the name of Deinococcus radiodurans. It is known to be able to withstand cold, dehydration, vacuum, acid, and, most notably, radiation. While its radiation tolerance mechanisms are known, we have yet to adapt the relevant genes to mammals. To do so is not particularly easy. There are many facets that go into its radiation tolerance, and it's not as simple as transferring one gene. But given a little bit of human ingenuity and a little bit of time, I think to do so is not very hard either. Even if we borrow just a fraction of its ability to tolerate radiation, it would be infinitely better than what we already have, which is just the melanin in our skin. Using the tools of synthetic biology, we can harness Deinococcus radiodurans' ability to thrive under otherwise very lethal doses of radiation. As difficult as it is to see, homo sapiens, that is humans, evolves every day, and still continues to evolve. Thousands of years of human evolution has not only given us humans like Tibetans, who can thrive in low-oxygen conditions, but also Argentinians, who can ingest and metabolize arsenic, the chemical element that can kill the average human being. Every day, the human body evolves by accidental mutations that equally accidentally allow certain humans to persevere in dismal situations. But, and this is a big but, such evolution requires two things that we may not always have, or be able to afford, and they are death and time. In our species' struggle to find our place in the universe, we may not always have the time necessary for the natural evolution of extra functions for survival on non-Earth planets. We're living in what E.O. Wilson has termed the age of gene circumvention, during which we remedy our genetic defects like cystic fibrosis or muscular dystrophy with temporary external supplements. But with every passing day, we approach the age of volitional evolution, a time during which we as a species will have the capacity to decide for ourselves our own genetic destiny. Augmenting the human body with new abilities is no longer a question of how, but of when. Using synthetic biology to change the genetic makeup of any living organisms, especially our own, is not without its moral and ethical quandaries. Will engineering ourselves make us less human? But then again, what is humanity but star stuff that happens to be conscious? Where should human genius direct itself? Surely it is a bit of a waste to sit back and marvel at it. How do we use our knowledge to protect ourselves from the external dangers and then protect ourselves from ourselves? I pose these questions not to engender the fear of science but to bring to light the many possibilities that science has afforded and continues to afford us. We must coalesce as humans to discuss and embrace the solutions not only with caution but also with courage. Mars is a destination, but it will not be our last. Our true final frontier is the line we must cross in deciding what we can and should make of our species' improbable intelligence. Space is cold, brutal and unforgiving. Our path to the stars will be rife with trials that will bring us to question not only who we are but where we will be going. The answers will lie in our choice to use or abandon the technology that we have gleaned from life itself, and it will define us for the remainder of our term in this universe. Thank you. (Applause)"	地球本身，無論以甚麼標準來衡量，適宜人類居住的土地並不多，那些土地僅僅是可以讓我們生存而已。我們遠古的祖先，當他們發現他們的家園或居住的地方有危險時，他們就會勇敢地前往未知的領土，去尋找更好的機會。做為他們的後代，我們的血液中也淌流著他們游牧民族的血統。但與此同時，當我們被食物與娛樂，以及人類之間糾纏不清的戰爭沖昏頭時，似乎也讓我們忘掉了對探險的渴望。身為人類物種的我們，我們獨特的演化，讓我們可以生活在地球、居住在地球，但良好的居住條件，讓我們越來越自滿，然後忙到沒察覺到我們地球的資源是有限的，我們太陽的生命也是有限的。而當火星和所有以它為命名的電影開始蓬勃發展後，重振了太空旅行的精神，少數人似乎也開始真正地了解到我們人類的脆弱體質，根本還沒準備好要適應曠日持久的太空旅途。 讓我們回到各位當地的國家森林，來做一個真實的小測驗。請各位快速地舉一下手：你們當中有多少人，認為自己可以在這樣蔥翠的野外生存上幾天？好的，有很多人。那幾個禮拜呢？還蠻多的。那幾個月呢？也還不錯。現在讓我們想像一下，這個國家森林正經歷著一個嚴厲的寒冬。同樣問題：你們當中有多少人，認為自己可以生存個幾天？還蠻多人的。幾個禮拜呢？換一個有趣的角度，讓我們想像一下，唯一可用的水資源被冰凍在好幾英哩的地底下。土壤的養分相當有限，根本找不到植物，當然，更不用說，幾乎沒有大氣存在。 這些例子，只是我們來到像火星這樣的星球上後，所要面臨的幾個挑戰。所以，我們要如何自我鍛鍊，以適應目的地不是去亞熱帶度假的旅程？我們要不斷從地球運輸補給品嗎？建立太空電梯嗎？或是要建立一條長到不行的連結地球和目的星球的輸送帶？以及，我們要如何在那個星球上培養我們在地球上種植的食物？ 但我這些想法目前都還不夠周延。在我們尋找下一個太陽系新家園時，我們不太可能把太多時間花在旅途上、（把時間花在）太空中、在一艘像密封罐頭的太空船中，因為這可能會要好幾個世代的演化才行。 人類在太空中度過的最長時間差不多是 12 到 14 個月。從太空人的外太空經驗中，我們了解到，長時間待在微重力的環境中，會造成骨質流失、肌肉萎縮、心血管疾病，等各種其它生理上、心理上的綜合症狀。如果我們找到的星球上面有著超重力或各種其它引力，我們的情況又會怎樣呢？ 簡單地說，我們的宇宙旅行將充滿著已知及未知的危險。目前我們已經著手運用這些新的機械技術，或下一代的新型機械人來作為確保人類的太空旅程安全計畫的一部分。同樣令人讚嘆的事情就是，我相信有一個時機已經來臨， 能讓我們彌補這些笨重電子設備的不足，那就是大自然的發明：微生物，一個單細胞有機體可自給自足的生物機器。它只要一點點的資源就可以維持生命，在設計上也相當有靈活性，而且它只需要我們用一個塑膠管運輸它就可以了。「合成生物學」這個領域的研究，已經使我們獲得運用微生物的能力。它源自於分子生物學，這門學科已經提供我們抗生素、疫苗以及讓我們用更好的方式來觀察人類生理上的細微差別。利用合成生物學的工具，我們幾乎可以編輯各種有機體、微生物或非微生物的基因，而且是以一種難以想像的速度與準確度來編輯。鑑於人造機械有著許多局限性，合成生物技術不僅提供我們設計食物、燃料和環境的方法，也能設計我們自己，來彌補我們身體上的不足，並確保我們能在太空中生存。 我舉一個例子，我們如何應用合成生物技術到太空探險的例子，讓我們回到火星的環境。火星的土壤與夏威夷火山灰的成分類似，上面都有微量的有機物質。讓我們假設一下，如果火星的土壤不需要使用從地球取得的養份就能提供植物生長，那會怎樣？我們應該問的第一個問題是：要如何讓我們的植物具有抗寒能力？因為，火星上的平均溫度是難以忍受的攝氏零下60度。下一個問題，我們應該這樣問，要如何讓我們的植物具有抗旱能力？大多數的水源是以霜的形式存在，蒸發的速度甚至快過我說出「蒸發」這個詞。其實，我們已經都能做的到了。我們向魚借用了抗凍基因，向水稻借用了抗旱的基因，並把這些基因片段編輯到我們需要的植物上，讓我們現在有了抗旱抗凍的植物。它們就是大家所熟知的基因改造食物或基因改造生物，我們仰賴它們來餵飽人類的口腹。大自然已經在沒有我們的幫助下，做出了這樣的東西。我們只是找到了更精確的方法來做這件事情。 那麼，為什麼我們要為了探索太空而去改變植物的基因呢？因為，如果不這樣做，我們就需要在一個全新的星球上建造出好幾英畝的農田，這得釋放出上億加侖的大氣層氣體，然後再造一個巨大的玻璃圓頂來容納所有的空氣。這是一個不實際的工程計畫，因為這會很容易演變成一個高成本的運輸任務。其中一個能確保我們擁有足夠的食物和空氣供給的最佳方式就是把這些已經能適應艱困新環境的基改生物一起帶到新的星球。本質上，短期或長期而言，利用改造微生物，可以幫助我們把一個星球給地球化。這些有機體之後也可以被改造成藥物或燃料。 所以我們利用合成生物學，可以做出高度改造的植物，但我們還能做甚麼呢？我稍早有提到，我們人類為了適應地球，演化出一種獨特的適應能力。這個事實在這五分鐘內並沒有很大的改變，你還是坐在那，我仍然站在這。如果我們現在就把幾個人丟到火星，即使有足夠的食物、水、空氣和太空裝，我們還是得面臨非常難受的健康問題，例如，地表放射出來的離子射線，以及要適應一個像火星這樣幾乎沒有大氣層的星球。除非，我們準備計畫去到每個新星球時，都躲在地底下，我們必須找到更好的方式來保護我們自己，甚至不需要求助於穿著和我們體重一樣重的盔甲裝，或者需要躲在一面鉛板牆後面。 所以，讓我們回到大自然裡找靈感。地球上這些豐富多彩的生物中，有機體裡有一個子集，被稱為極端微生物，或叫極端生活條件的愛好者，如果你還記得高中的生物課的話。在這些微生物當中有一個細菌叫做「耐輻射奇球菌」。它是出了有名的可以耐寒、耐旱、耐真空、耐酸還有最厲害的，耐輻射。當它的抗輻射機制被發現後，我們尚未採集相關的基因運用到哺乳動物上。要這樣做也不是特別容易。要取得它的抗輻射能力有很多方面需要考量，也並不是轉移一個基因就可以解決。但只要投入一些人類的智慧，與一些時間，我想如果要做，也不會很困難。即使如果我們只是要借用它的一段抗輻射能力，也比我們現有皮膚上的黑色素要好很多。運用合成生物技術的工具，我們可以利用奇異球菌的抗輻射能力，在非常致命劑量的輻射底下茁壯成長。我們難以想像，人類—智慧的現代人，每天都在演化，而且還會持續演化。人類這好幾千年的演化，不僅給了我們，像是可以生存在低濃度氧氣的藏族人，也給了我們可以攝取和代謝砷的阿根廷人，而這種化學元素對普通人而言確是致命的。每天，人體藉由意外的突變在進行演化，意思就是意外地讓特定人種在惡劣的條件下生存保存下來。 但是，還有個很大的問題，要有這樣的演化，必須有兩個條件，而我們也不一定總是有，或可以承受的起的，它們就是—死亡與時間。在人類努力地在宇宙中尋找適合地方的這段旅程，我們也許並沒有足夠的時間來自然演化出其它的能力來適應生存在非地球的星球上。我們現在生存在艾德華．威爾森先生所稱的「基因風險規避的年代」這段期間，我們運用一些臨時的外部補給品規避了我們的基因缺陷，像是囊性纖維化或肌肉萎縮症。但隨著時間的遷移，我們來到了「意願演化的年代」，一個身為人類的我們將有能力決定我們自己基因命運的年代。賦予人類身體新的能力已經不再是「如何」的問題，而是「何時」的問題。 利用合成生物技術來改變任何生物體的基因，特別是我們自己，這件事本身並沒有道德和倫理上的矛盾。改變我們自己會讓我們變得沒有人性嗎？但話又說回來，甚麼是人性？是新科技產品產生了意識狀況嗎？還是人類的天賦應該往哪個方向去？可以肯定的是，坐在那邊胡思亂想只是浪費時間。我們要如何運用我們的知識來保護我們自己，避免外來的危險？還有保護我們自己，避免彼此的傷害？ 我提出這些質疑，並不是要製造對科學的恐懼，而是要把這件事點出來，讓大家討論科學能提供給我們甚麼的各種可能性。我們人類必須一起討論並擁抱這些解決方案，不僅要謹慎，而且要勇敢。 火星是一個目標，但不是我們最後的目的地。我們必須跨過最後那一道防線，來決定我們「可以且必須」為人類貢獻出什麼樣不可思議的智慧。 太空是寒冷、殘酷且無情的。我們通往星球的道路將會充滿考驗，這不僅帶出了「我們是誰」的問題，也帶出了「人類將往何處去」的問題。答案取決於我們的選擇，究竟我們從生命中慢慢累積來的技術，是該利用它還是放棄它，而這將為我們倖存下來的人在宇宙中留下人類的定義。 謝謝各位。 （掌聲）
