Talk	en	zh-tw
lisa_harouni_a_primer_on_3d_printing	"It is actually a reality today that you can download products from the Web — product data, I should say, from the Web — perhaps tweak it and personalize it to your own preference or your own taste, and have that information sent to a desktop machine that will fabricate it for you on the spot. We can actually build for you, very rapidly, a physical object. And the reason we can do this is through an emerging technology called additive manufacturing, or 3D printing. This is a 3D printer. They have been around for almost 30 years now, which is quite amazing to think of, but they're only just starting to filter into the public arena. And typically, you would take data, like the data of a pen here, which would be a geometric representation of that product in 3D, and we would pass that data with material into a machine. And a process that would happen in the machine would mean layer by layer that product would be built. And we can take out the physical product, and ready to use, or to, perhaps, assemble into something else. But if these machines have been around for almost 30 years, why don't we know about them? Because typically they've been too inefficient, inaccessible, they've not been fast enough, they've been quite expensive. But today, it is becoming a reality that they are now becoming successful. Many barriers are breaking down. That means that you guys will soon be able to access one of these machines, if not this minute. And it will change and disrupt the landscape of manufacturing, and most certainly our lives, our businesses and the lives of our children. So how does it work? It typically reads CAD data, which is a product design data created on professional product design programs. And here you can see an engineer — it could be an architect or it could be a professional product designer — create a product in 3D. And this data gets sent to a machine that slices the data into two-dimensional representations of that product all the way through — almost like slicing it like salami. And that data, layer by layer, gets passed through the machine, starting at the base of the product and depositing material, layer upon layer, infusing the new layer of materials to the old layer in an additive process. And this material that's deposited either starts as a liquid form or a material powder form. And the bonding process can happen by either melting and depositing or depositing then melting. In this case, we can see a laser sintering machine developed by EOS. It's actually using a laser to fuse the new layer of material to the old layer. And over time — quite rapidly actually, in a number of hours — we can build a physical product, ready to take out of the machine and use. And this is quite an extraordinary idea, but it is reality today. So all these products that you can see on the screen were made in the same way. They were all 3D printed. And you can see, they're ranging from shoes, rings that were made out of stainless steal, phone covers out of plastic, all the way through to spinal implants, for example, that were created out of medical-grade titanium, and engine parts. But what you'll notice about all of these products is they're very, very intricate. The design is quite extraordinary. Because we're taking this data in 3D form, slicing it up before it gets past the machine, we can actually create structures that are more intricate than any other manufacturing technology — or, in fact, are impossible to build in any other way. And you can create parts with moving components, hinges, parts within parts. So in some cases, we can abolish totally the need for manual labor. It sounds great. It is great. We can have 3D printers today that build structures like these. This is almost three meters high. And this was built by depositing artificial sandstone layer upon layer in layers of about five millimeters to 10 mm in thickness — slowly growing this structure. This was created by an architectural firm called Shiro. And you can actually walk into it. And on the other end of the spectrum, this is a microstructure. It's created depositing layers of about four microns. So really the resolution is quite incredible. The detail that you can get today is quite amazing. So who's using it? Typically, because we can create products very rapidly, it's been used by product designers, or anyone who wanted to prototype a product and very quickly create or reiterate a design. And actually what's quite amazing about this technology as well is that you can create bespoke products en masse. There's very little economies of scale. So you can now create one-offs very easily. Architects, for example, they want to create prototypes of buildings. Again you can see, this is a building of the Free University in Berlin and it was designed by Foster and Partners. Again, not buildable in any other way. And very hard to even create this by hand. Now this is an engine component. It was developed by a company called Within Technologies and 3T RPD. It's very, very, very detailed inside with the design. Now 3D printing can break away barriers in design which challenge the constraints of mass production. If we slice into this product which is actually sitting here, you can see that it has a number of cooling channels pass through it, which means it's a more efficient product. You can't create this with standard manufacturing techniques even if you tried to do it manually. It's more efficient because we can now create all these cavities within the object that cool fluid. And it's used by aerospace and automotive. It's a lighter part and it uses less material waste. So it's overall performance and efficiency just exceeds standard mass produced products. And then taking this idea of creating a very detailed structure, we can apply it to honeycomb structures and use them within implants. Typically an implant is more effective within the body if it's more porous, because our body tissue will grow into it. There's a lower chance of rejection. But it's very hard to create that in standard ways. With 3D printing, we're seeing today that we can create much better implants. And in fact, because we can create bespoke products en masse, one-offs, we can create implants that are specific to individuals. So as you can see, this technology and the quality of what comes out of the machines is fantastic. And we're starting to see it being used for final end products. And in fact, as the detail is improving, the quality is improving, the price of the machines are falling and they're becoming quicker. They're also now small enough to sit on a desktop. You can buy a machine today for about $300 that you can create yourself, which is quite incredible. But then it begs the question, why don't we all have one in our home? Because, simply, most of us here today don't know how to create the data that a 3D printer reads. If I gave you a 3D printer, you wouldn't know how to direct it to make what you want it to. But there are more and more technologies, software and processes today that are breaking down those barriers. I believe we're at a tipping point where this is now something that we can't avoid. This technology is really going to disrupt the landscape of manufacturing and, I believe, cause a revolution in manufacturing. So today, you can download products from the Web — anything you would have on your desktop, like pens, whistles, lemon squeezers. You can use software like Google SketchUp to create products from scratch very easily. 3D printing can be also used to download spare parts from the Web. So imagine you have, say, a Hoover in your home and it has broken down. You need a spare part, but you realize that Hoover's been discontinued. Can you imagine going online — this is a reality — and finding that spare part from a database of geometries of that discontinued product and downloading that information, that data, and having the product made for you at home, ready to use, on your demand? And in fact, because we can create spare parts with things the machines are quite literally making themselves. You're having machines fabricate themselves. These are parts of a RepRap machine, which is a kind of desktop printer. But what interests my company the most is the fact that you can create individual unique products en masse. There's no need to do a run of thousands of millions or send that product to be injection molded in China. You can just make it physically on the spot. Which means that we can now present to the public the next generation of customization. This is something that is now possible today, that you can direct personally how you want your products to look. We're all familiar with the idea of customization or personalization. Brands like Nike are doing it. It's all over the Web. In fact, every major household name is allowing you to interact with their products on a daily basis — all the way from Smart Cars to Prada to Ray Ban, for example. But this is not really mass customization; it's known as variant production, variations of the same product. What you could do is really influence your product now and shape-manipulate your product. I'm not sure about you guys, but I've had experiences when I've walked into a store and I've know exactly what I've wanted and I've searched everywhere for that perfect lamp that I know where I want to sit in my house and I just can't find the right thing, or that perfect piece of jewelry as a gift or for myself. Imagine that you can now engage with a brand and interact, so that you can pass your personal attributes to the products that you're about to buy. You can today download a product with software like this, view the product in 3D. This is the sort of 3D data that a machine will read. This is a lamp. And you can start iterating the design. You can direct what color that product will be, perhaps what material. And also, you can engage in shape manipulation of that product, but within boundaries that are safe. Because obviously the public are not professional product designers. The piece of software will keep an individual within the bounds of the possible. And when somebody is ready to purchase the product in their personalized design, they click ""Enter"" and this data gets converted into the data that a 3D printer reads and gets passed to a 3D printer, perhaps on someone's desktop. But I don't think that that's immediate. I don't think that will happen soon. What's more likely, and we're seeing it today, is that data gets sent to a local manufacturing center. This means lower carbon footprint. We're now, instead of shipping a product across the world, we're sending data across the Internet. Here's the product being built. You can see, this came out of the machine in one piece and the electronics were inserted later. It's this lamp, as you can see here. So as long as you have the data, you can create the part on demand. And you don't necessarily need to use this for just aesthetic customization, you can use it for functional customization, scanning parts of the body and creating things that are made to fit. So we can run this through to something like prosthetics, which is highly specialized to an individual's handicap. Or we can create very specific prosthetics for that individual. Scanning teeth today, you can have your teeth scanned and dental coatings made in this way to fit you. While you wait at the dentist, a machine will quietly be creating this for you ready to insert in the teeth. And the idea of now creating implants, scanning data, an MRI scan of somebody can now be converted into 3D data and we can create very specific implants for them. And applying this to the idea of building up what's in our bodies. You know, this is pair of lungs and the bronchial tree. It's very intricate. You couldn't really create this or simulate it in any other way. But with MRI data, we can just build the product, as you can see, very intricately. Using this process, pioneers in the industry are layering up cells today. So one of the pioneers, for example, is Dr. Anthony Atala, and he has been working on layering cells to create body parts — bladders, valves, kidneys. Now this is not something that's ready for the public, but it is in working progress. So just to finalize, we're all individual. We all have different preferences, different needs. We like different things. We're all different sizes and our companies the same. Businesses want different things. Without a doubt in my mind, I believe that this technology is going to cause a manufacturing revolution and will change the landscape of manufacturing as we know it. Thank you. (Applause)"	今日的現實就是各位可以從網路下載產品或應該說是產品的資料然後修改 加以個人化以符合你的個人的喜好或口味並將這份資訊傳送到到一部桌上型機器替你當場做出實物就是說 我們實際上可以快速地為你做出實物我們仰賴的是一種新興科技稱作添加式製造或3D列印 這是一台3D打印機這種機器已經出現將近30年了這點還蠻讓人訝異的因為它們最近才開始滲透入公共領域的應用通常的用法是把資料像這些筆的資料就是這些產品在三度空間中的幾何呈現數據把這些資料連同原料一起傳送給機器機器裡的製造過程就是一層一層地建構這項產品當我們把實體的產品拿出來就可以直接使用或是把它組裝成其他東西 不過 如果這種機器已經存在將近30年之久為什麼我們對它一無所知？因為這種機器非常沒有效率難以取得速度不夠快又很昂貴但是今天這種機器已經逐漸變得越來越成功我們已經突破許多障礙這表示 在座各位很快可以有機會使用這種機器就算不是此時此刻而這會改變和瓦解現有的製造格局影響我們的生活，我們的商業和孩子的生活 可是這是怎樣達成的呢？它經由讀取CAD(電腦輔助設計)資訊一種產品設計資料由專業的產品設計軟體產生而這裡你看以看到一名工程師 —也可能是一名建築師，或者是一名產品設計師 —設計了一個3D的產品這個資料輸送到一個機器將數據“切片”把這個產品進行整體的二維分解就像切香腸一樣這些資料，分層通過機器從產品底部開始一層一層的澆注材料使用加成工藝讓上一層的材料不斷滲入下一層這種澆注材料最開始可能是液體狀也可能是粉末狀而粘合工藝的原理可以是先融化再澆注，也可以是先澆注再融化在這個例子裡 我們看到的是EOS開發的鐳射燒結機它利用鐳射將新加層的材料熔接到前一層經過一段時間 —其實很快，也就是幾個小時 —我們就可以做出實物拿出機器并投入使用這想法很棒並已成為現實 你們在螢幕上見到的都是用同樣方法做出來的3D列印的產物可以看到它可以做出鞋子不銹鋼制的戒指塑膠的手機殼以及採用醫用鈦製成的脊柱植入物還有引擎零件請注意 所有這些產品都非常非常複雜有著令人驚歎的設計因為我們使用的是3D形式的資料在製作前全部分解我們可以創造出極其複雜的結構比現有的任何一種製造技術都複雜事實上，採用其他技術都無法做出如此複雜的結構你可以做出帶有移動元件的零件鉸鏈，層層嵌套的零件 在某些例子裡，我們可以完全摒棄手工的需要聽起來很棒而它的確很棒今天的3D打印機可以做出這樣的結構這個差不多有3米高它是由層層澆注人工砂岩每層5到10毫米厚慢慢生成的一個結構這是Shiro建築師事務所的作品人們可以走到裡面去而在另一個極端這是一個微縮結構這裡的澆注層只有大約4微米這個精細度是很驚人的今天所能做出的細節是很驚人的 那麼誰在用呢？一般來說，因為它能快速製作產品所以產品設計師是常用者另外就是任何想製作產品模型並且需要快速製作或複製設計的人這項科技的另一個驚人之處就是你可以對個性化產品進行一次性成型這樣它的規模效應很小你也能輕鬆地做出一次性設計譬如建築師他們要做建築模型你們看到的是柏林自由大學的一幢建築由福斯特建築事務所設計它無法由（除3D列印之外的）其他技術實現既是是手工製作也很困難 這是一個引擎部件由Within技術公司與3T RPD公司開發它有非常精細的內部設計3D列印能打破設計的藩籬這大大挑戰了工業生產的限制如果我們把這裡的產品剖開來可以看到這裡有數條貫穿的冷卻管道這說明這個產品效率更高你無法用標準的製造技術來實現它們完全手工也不行它效率更高的原因便是因為我們可以製造物體內的所有用來冷卻液體的腔體它現在被使用於航空航天和汽車工業它很輕生產廢料也很少總的來說 相比於標準的量產品它很可行也具有更高效率 運用這項技術我們可以做出其它很細節的結構我們可以做出蜂窩結構用於植入體內一般來說植入體有越多孔洞它就越有效這是因為身體組織可以長在裡面減少被排斥的機會但是 如果用傳統方法 這是非常困難的。利用3D列印技術我們可以看到它能夠做出更好的植入體實際上 由於我們可以打造客製化、一次性的產品我們可以特地打造專屬于個人的植入體 你可以看到這些技術以及利用其做出來的產品都是非常了不起的現在我們來看它能做出的最終產品實際上 隨著細節的提高以及質量的提高3D印表機價格也正在降低并能越來越快的做出產品現在它們已經足夠小到可以放到桌子上面今天你只需要花上300美元便可以買一個3D印表機來自己做產品這是很不可思議的 現在有人就會問為什麼我們不能自己在家裡有一個呢？因為 簡單的說 在場的各位不知道如何做出3D打印機能讀取的數據如果我給你一個3D打印機你會不知道如何指導它做出你想要的東西現在 技術的進步越來越多的軟體正在打破這些障礙我相信現在正位於一個轉折點我們無法忽視它這項技術，正在重塑製造業的佈局我相信，3D列印會引發製造業的革新。 今天，你可以從網路上下載你想要的產品任何你想要的像鉛筆，口哨，檸檬榨汁機等你可以利用像Google SketchUp的軟體很容易的做出這些產品3D列印也可以用來從網路上下載備用零件想像一下某天你的吸塵器壞了你需要一個備用零件但是發現，Hoover已經停產了想像一下 你可以直接去網路上 —這已成為現實 —在停產的數據庫中找到這個備用零件找到這個備用零件下載關於這個產品的信息并在家裡把它做出來並且馬上在你需要時就能用實際上 因為我們可以做出備用零件這些機器其實可以做出它們自己機器可以自我複製這些是RepRap機器的零件它是一種桌上打印機 但我們公司特別感興趣的是你可以做出屬於你獨一無二的東西你不需要做出成千上萬個也不需要把零件送去中國組裝你可以當場就做出來這意味著我們可以向大眾展示新一代的客戶訂製有一部分現在已經成為可能你可以讓打印機做出你想要的產品 我們都很熟悉訂製或做個性化像Nike這樣的品牌正在這樣做完全都在網路上進行實際上，每個家喻戶曉的公司都使你在日常生活中和他們的產品互饋信息 —從智能汽車到Prada再到Ray Ban但這不是大規模訂製這是一種變種生產同一種產品的變化你現在能做的是完全的重塑你想要的產品 我不清楚你們有沒有這種情況我有過類似的經歷當我走進一家商店想找那個我已經找了很久的一盞我知道可以擺在家裡哪個地方的完美檯燈但卻哪裡也找不到或者是一個完美的珠寶用來送給我自己想像一下你可以跟名牌商聯繫接洽把自己的個人訂製發送給他們 今天 你可以用這樣的軟體在3D模式下查看你想要的產品這是那些打印機能讀取的3D數據這是一個檯燈你可以重新設計你可以選你想要的顏色或者材質你可以自我的改變形狀當然 是在允許的範圍因為很顯然的 絕大部分人不會是專業的產品設計師這個軟體可以幫助人們在可選擇的範圍內進行個人訂製當有人準備購買這個訂製好的產品時你點一下確認鍵這些個性化設計信息會轉換成3D打印機可以讀取的格式然後被送到可能在某人桌上的那一台3D打印機 但這並不會馬上實現我不認為會馬上實現現在我們能看到的情況是那些數據傳到當地的製造中心這意味著這種做法很節碳現在 我們不用把產品發送到全世界我們只需要把數據透過網路傳送到各地這是正在製造的產品你可以看到 一塊塊的被做出來電器部分會後面加進來這是一個檯燈 你可以看到只要你有這些數據你就可以按自己的需求去做出來 你不只進行美感訂製還可以做功能訂製掃描產品部分做出合適的產品我們可以做出義肢這種因人而異的產品或者為某人做出專屬的義肢掃描你的牙齒掃描你的牙齒之後可以做出符合你的牙齒當你在等牙醫的時候一個機器正在製作特別適合你的牙齒植體 這種想法也用來製造植入體核磁共振成像(MRI)的數據轉換為3D格式我們可以利用它來做出獨有的植入體利用這樣的概念可以製造出我們身體內的器官你看到 這是肺和支氣管非常的錯綜複雜你不能利用其它手段來模擬或製造出來但是利用MRI數據我們可以製出這種產品如你所見 非常複雜利用這項工藝工業先驅們正在利用一層層的細胞其中的一位，Anthony Atala醫師他正在利用層疊的細胞來做出身體器官膀胱，瓣膜，腎臟這現在還沒有用在大眾但是它正在發展中 總結一下，我們都是不同的個體我們都有不同的偏好，不同的需求我們都喜歡不同的東西我們有不同的尺寸，公司也是這樣生意上需要不同的東西毋庸置疑我相信這項技術會引發製造業的革命從而改變我們知道的製造業 謝謝 (掌聲)
