Talk	en	zh-tw
liu_bolin_the_invisible_man	"Liu Bolin: By making myself invisible, I try to question the inter-canceling relationship between our civilization and its development. Interpreter: By making myself invisible, I try to explore and question the contradictory and often inter-canceling relationship between our civilization and its development. LB: This is my first work, created in November 2005. And this is Beijing International Art Camp where I worked before the government forcibly demolished it.I used this work to express my objection. I also want to use this work to let more people pay attention to the living condition of artists and the condition of their creative freedom. In the meantime, from the beginning, this series has a protesting, reflective and uncompromising spirit. When applying makeup, I borrow a sniper's method to better protect myself and to detect the enemy, as he did. (Laughter) After finishing this series of protests, I started questioning why my fate was like this, and I realized that it's not just me — all Chinese are as confused as I am. As you can see, these works are about family planning, election in accordance with the law and propaganda of the institution of the People's Congress. This work is called Xia Gang (""leaving post""). ""Xia Gang"" is a Chinese euphemism for ""laid off"". It refers to those people who lost their jobs during China's transition from a planned economy to a market economy. From 1998 to 2000, 21.37 million people lost their jobs in China. The six people in the photo are Xia Gang workers. I made them invisible in the deserted shop wherethey had lived and worked all their lives. On the wall behind them is the slogan of the Cultural Revolution: ""The core force leading our cause forward is the Chinese Communist Party."" For half a month I looked for these 6 people to participate in my work. We can only see six men in this picture,but in fact, those who are hidden here are all people who were laid off. They have just been made invisible. This piece is called The Studio. This spring, I happened to have an opportunity during my solo exhibition in Paris to shoot a work in the news studio of France 3 — I picked the news photos of the day. One is about the war in the Middle East, and another one is about a public demonstration in France. I found that any culture has its irreconcilable contradictions. This is a joint effort between me and French artist JR. Interpreter: This is a joint effort between me and French artist JR. (Applause) LB: I tried to disappear into JR's eye, but the problem is JR only uses models with big eyes. So I tried to make my eyes bigger with my fingers. But still they are not big enough for JR, unfortunately. Interpreter: So I tried to disappear into JR's eye, but the problem is JR uses only models with big eyes. So I tried to make my eyes bigger with this gesture. But it doesn't work, my eyes are still small. LB: This one is about 9/11 memories. This is an aircraft carrier moored alongside the Hudson River. Kenny Scharf's graffiti. (Laughter) This is Venice, Italy. Because global temperatures rise, the sea level rises, and it is said thatVenice will disappear in the coming decades. This is the ancient city of Pompeii. Interpreter: This is the ancient city of Pompeii. LB: This is the Borghese Gallery in Rome. When I work on a new piece, I pay more attention to the expression of ideas. For instance, why would I make myself invisible? What will making myself invisible here cause people to think? This one is called Instant Noodles. Interpreter: This one is called Instant Noodles. (Laughter) LB: Since August 2012, harmful phosphors have been found in the instant noodle package cups from every famous brand sold in China's supermarkets. These phosphors can even cause cancer. To create this artwork, I bought a lot of packaged instant noodle cups and put them in my studio, making it look like a supermarket. And my task is to stand there, trying to be still, setting up the camera position and coordinating with my assistant and drawing the colors and shapes that are behind my body on the front of my body. If the background is simple, I usually have to stand for three to four hours. The background of this piece is more complex, so I need three to four days in advance for preparation. This is the suit I wore when I did the supermarket shoot. There is no Photoshop involved. Interpreter: This is the suit I [was] wearing when I did the supermarket shoot. There is no Photoshop involved. (Laughter) LB: These works are on China's cultural memories. And this one, this is about food safety in China. Unsafe food can harm people's health, and a deluge of magazines can confuse people's minds. (Laughter) The next pieces of work show how I made myself invisible in magazines of different languages, in different countries and at different times. I think that in art, an artist's attitude is the most important element. If an artwork is to touch someone, it must be the result of not only technique, but also the artist's thinking and struggle in life. And the repeated struggles in life create artwork, no matter in what form. (Music) That's all I want to say. Thank you. (Applause)"	我的作品裏面是用我自己身體的消失來質疑人類創造的文明以及人自身發展所互相制約的關係。用我自己身體的消失，來探索、並質疑人類創造的文明以及人自身發展的矛盾，和經常性的互相制約關係。 這是我的第一件作品，是在 2005 年的十一月。我所在的索家村國際藝術營被政府強行拆掉，我用這個作品來表達我的抗議，也想用這件作品來引起更多的人對藝術家生存狀態以及藝術創作自由的關注。同時，我這個系列的開始也注定了它抗議、反思以及毫不妥協的精神。我在化妝的時候借用了狙擊手的化妝方法，這樣呢可以更好地保護自己以及發現敵人，像他一樣。（笑） 抗議這個系列做完以後，我開始質問我的命運爲什麽有如此遭遇。我發現不光我一個人，所有的中國人，都有和我一樣的困惑。大家看到的這些作品，關於計劃生育、依法選舉、以及宣傳人民代表大會制度的。 這件作品的題目叫「下崗」，下崗是一個中國語境的詞彙，它是指離開工作崗位，是指中國在由計劃經濟往市場經濟轉型過程中失去工作崗位的這些人。從 1998 年到 2000 年兩年期間，在中國失去工作的這些人就有 2137 萬人。照片中的 6 個人，就是下崗職工，我把他們消失在他們曾經工作生活了一輩子的廢棄的車間裏面。後面的墻上寫著文革時期的標語：「領導我們事業的核心力量是中國共産黨。」我用了半個月的時間來找這 6 個人參與我的作品。我們在照片中看到的只有 6 個人，但其實，在這兒隱藏的是所有有下崗經歷的這些人，他们只是被隱形了。 這件作品叫「直播間」。今年春天，我在巴黎的個展正好有機會，在法國電視三台的新聞直播間拍一件作品，我挑選的當天發生的這些新聞圖片，一張是關於中東戰爭，另外一張是關於法國民衆的示威遊行。我發現任何文化都有它不可調和的矛盾。 这件作品是我和法国藝術家 JR 的合作。这件作品是我和法国藝術家 JR 的合作。 （鼓掌） 我把 JR 消失到我的眼睛裏面，但是 JR 的所有作品裏面的模特眼睛都特別大，我其實我做這個動作是想讓我的眼睛更大一點，可是沒辦法，我的眼睛還是那麽小。我試著消失到 JR 的眼睛裏面，但是 JR 的所有作品裏面的模特眼睛都特別大，我做這個手勢是想讓我的眼睛更大一點，可是沒辦法，我的眼睛對 JR 來説還是不夠大。（笑） 這件作品是關於 911 的一些回憶。 這是在哈德遜河的旁邊停靠的航空母艦。 肯尼·沙爾夫的塗鴉 (Kenny Scharf Mural)（笑） 這是在意大利的威尼斯，因爲全球的溫度升高，海平面上漲，有消息稱威尼斯將在未來的幾十年内消失。這是義大利的龐貝古城，這是義大利的龐貝古城，這是羅馬的博爾蓋美術館 (Borghese Gallery)。 我在拍新作品的時候，我會更注重思想的表達。比如説我爲什麽要消失，我消失在這兒會引起人們什麽樣的思考。 這件作品的題目叫「方便麵」。這件作品的題目叫「方便麵」。（笑）（笑）.從 2012 年的 8 月，在中國超市裏各大知名的桶裝速食麵品牌的外包裝裏都發現了有害的熒光粉。這些熒光粉甚至可以致癌。我爲了拍這件作品，我又買了大量的桶裝方便麵，在我的工作室裏做成超市的樣子。然後我的任務就是站在那兒，盡量不動，擺好相機的位置，然後配合我的助手。把我身體後面擋住的一些顔色和形狀在我身體前面畫出來。如果背景簡單的話，我一般要站三到四個小時。像這件作品背景比較複雜，我一般就需要提前三到四天就開始準備。我身上這件衣服就是拍這件作品的時候完成的，沒有任何電腦的痕跡。我身上這件衣服就是在超市拍這件作品時所穿的衣服，沒有使用任何Photoshop 修圖。（笑）. 這幾件作品是關於中國的文化記憶。 還有這種，這是關於中國的食品安全。不安全的食品可以危害人的身體，然後氾濫的雜誌可以迷惑人的心智。（笑）接下來的幾件作品都是我在不同國家、不同時間，我把自己消失在不同文字的雜誌裏。 我覺得在藝術作品中，藝術家的態度最重要。藝術作品如果想打動別人，不僅僅是它的技巧，同樣是它的思考和生命掙扎，而一次次的生命掙扎就會成爲藝術作品，不管它的形式是什麽。 （音樂） 我所要說的就到此爲止。 謝謝。（鼓掌）.
