Talk	en	zh-tw
liz_diller_a_giant_bubble_for_debate	"We conventionally divide space into private and public realms, and we know these legal distinctions very well because we've become experts at protecting our private property and private space. But we're less attuned to the nuances of the public. What translates generic public space into qualitative space? I mean, this is something that our studio has been working on for the past decade. And we're doing this through some case studies. A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time. And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time. We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket. So we've been eating, drinking, thinking, living public space for quite a long time. And it's taught us really one thing, and that is to truly make good public space, you have to erase the distinctions between architecture, urbanism, landscape, media design and so on. It really goes beyond distinction. Now we're moving onto Washington, D.C. and we're working on another transformation, and that is for the existing Hirshhorn Museum that's sited on the most revered public space in America, the National Mall. The Mall is a symbol of American democracy. And what's fantastic is that this symbol is not a thing, it's not an image, it's not an artifact, actually it's a space, and it's kind of just defined by a line of buildings on either side. It's a space where citizens can voice their discontent and show their power. It's a place where pivotal moments in American history have taken place. And they're inscribed in there forever — like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there. The Vietnam protests, the commemoration of all that died in the pandemic of AIDS, the march for women's reproductive rights, right up until almost the present. The Mall is the greatest civic stage in this country for dissent. And it's synonymous with free speech, even if you're not sure what it is that you have to say. It may just be a place for civic commiseration. There is a huge disconnect, we believe, between the communicative and discursive space of the Mall and the museums that line it to either side. And that is that those museums are usually passive, they have passive relationships between the museum as the presenter and the audience, as the receiver of information. And so you can see dinosaurs and insects and collections of locomotives and all of that, but you're really not involved; you're being talked to. When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S. And while art and politics are inherently and implicitly together always and all the time, there could be some very special relationship that could be forged here in its uniqueness. The question is, is it possible ultimately for art to insert itself into the dialogue of national and world affairs? And could the museum be an agent of cultural diplomacy? There are over 180 embassies in Washington D.C. There are over 500 think tanks. There should be a way of harnessing all of that intellectual and global energy into, and somehow through, the museum. There should be some kind of brain trust. So the Hirshhorn, as we began to think about it, and as we evolved the mission, with Richard and his team — it's really his life blood. But beyond exhibiting contemporary art, the Hirshhorn will become a public forum, a place of discourse for issues around arts, culture, politics and policy. It would have the global reach of the World Economic Forum. It would have the interdisciplinarity of the TED Conference. It would have the informality of the town square. And for this new initiative, the Hirshhorn would have to expand or appropriate a site for a contemporary, deployable structure. This is it. This is the Hirshhorn — so a 230-foot-diameter concrete doughnut designed in the early '70s by Gordon Bunshaft. It's hulking, it's silent, it's cloistered, it's arrogant, it's a design challenge. Architects love to hate it. One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style. And around that space, the ring is actually galleries. Very, very difficult to mount shows in there. When the Hirshhorn opened, Ada Louise Huxstable, the New York Times critic, had some choice words: ""Neo-penitentiary modern."" ""A maimed monument and a maimed Mall for a maimed collection."" Almost four decades later, how will this building expand for a new progressive program? Where would it go? It can't go in the Mall. There is no space there. It can't go in the courtyard. It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures. Well there's always the hole. But how could it take the space of that hole and not be buried in it invisibly? How could it become iconic? And what language would it take? The Hirshhorn sits among the Mall's monumental institutions. Most are neoclassical, heavy and opaque, made of stone or concrete. And the question is, if one inhabits that space, what is the material of the Mall? It has to be different from the buildings there. It has to be something entirely different. It has to be air. In our imagination, it has to be light. It has to be ephemeral. It has to be formless. And it has to be free. (Video) So this is the big idea. It's a giant airbag. The expansion takes the shape of its container and it oozes out wherever it can — the top and sides. But more poetically, we like to think of the structure as inhaling the democratic air of the Mall, bringing it into itself. The before and the after. It was dubbed ""the bubble"" by the press. That was the lounge. It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction. The membrane is translucent. It's made of silcon-coated glass fiber. And it's inflated twice a year for one month at a time. This is the view from the inside. So you might have been wondering how in the world did we get this approved by the federal government. It had to be approved by actually two agencies. And one is there to preserve the dignity and sanctity of the Mall. I blush whenever I show this. It is yours to interpret. But one thing I can say is that it's a combination of iconoclasm and adoration. There was also some creative interpretation involved. The Congressional Buildings Act of 1910 limits the height of buildings in D.C. to 130 feet, except for spires, towers, domes and minarets. This pretty much exempts monuments of the church and state. And the bubble is 153 ft. That's the Pantheon next to it. It's about 1.2 million cubic feet of compressed air. And so we argued it on the merits of being a dome. So there it is, very stately, among all the stately buildings in the Mall. And while this Hirshhorn is not landmarked, it's very, very historically sensitive. And so we couldn't really touch its surfaces. We couldn't leave any traces behind. So we strained it from the edges, and we held it by cables. It's a study of some bondage techniques, which are actually very important because it's hit by wind all the time. There's one permanent steel ring at the top, but it can't be seen from any vantage point on the Mall. There are also some restrictions about how much it could be lit. It glows from within, it's translucent. But it can't be more lit than the Capitol or some of the monuments. So it's down the hierarchy on lighting. So it comes to the site twice a year. It's taken off the delivery truck. It's hoisted. And then it's inflated with this low-pressure air. And then it's restrained with the cables. And then it's ballasted with water at the very bottom. This is a very strange moment where we were asked by the bureaucracy at the Mall how much time would it take to install. And we said, well the first erection would take one week. And they really connected with that idea. And then it was really easy all the way through. So we didn't really have that many hurdles, I have to say, with the government and all the authorities. But some of the toughest hurdles have been the technical ones. This is the warp and weft. This is a point cloud. There are extreme pressures. This is a very, very unusual building in that there's no gravity load, but there's load in every direction. And I'm just going to zip through these slides. And this is the space in action. So flexible interior for discussions, just like this, but in the round — luminous and reconfigurable. Could be used for anything, for performances, films, for installations. And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations. Form and content are together here. The bubble is an anti-monument. The ideals of participatory democracy are represented through suppleness rather than rigidity. Art and politics occupy an ambiguous site outside the museum walls, but inside of the museum's core, blending its air with the democratic air of the Mall. And the bubble will inflate hopefully for the first time at the end of 2013. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們通常都把空間分為公共和私人區域而且我們對這樣的區分很瞭解因為我們對於保護我們私有財產和私有空間來說都是專家不過我們卻對於公共的部分不那麼在意細節是什麼把一般的公共空間轉變為好品質的空間呢?這可是一個很重要的問題我們工作室一直在研究這個在過去的十年裏透過幾項個案的實務運作來進行 我們主要的工作內容是著力在把這個被忽視的工業廢墟變為一個可運作的後工業時代的空間並同時兼顧到未來的發展與過去的延續另一部分的主要工作內容是針對那些與時代脫節的地方建立與我們生活的相關性我們正在準備對林肯中心進行民主化讓一般不常有辦法花300美元買票看歌劇的民眾也能用到這個空間我們團隊不管是在吃,喝,思考, 生活, 都一直跟公共場所脫不了關係有很長時間了我們從這裡面學到了一件重要的事就是 若要創造真正理想的公共空間你必須放棄門戶之見,把 建築, 城市化,地貌, 媒體設計 還有其他專業之間的區隔打破好的空間必須超越這些區隔之上來思考 我們的工作也將推進到首都華盛頓在這裡我們正在進行一項改造現有的Hirshhorn博物館的工作這個博物館位於美國最受尊敬的公共空間國家廣場國家廣場是美國的民主的象徵。這個象徵最特別的就是它不是一個物品, 也不是圖像也不是一個人造物，它實際上是一個空間，一個由廣場兩邊整排的建築物包圍起來的空間 在這個空間, 公民可以表達他們的不滿並展示他們的權力。在這個空間，也是美國歷史的關鍵時刻發生的地方這些歷史事件都會如同刻在那裡一般的流傳下去像是 1963年的 爭取工作權和自由的華盛頓遊行當時由 馬丁· 路德 · 金 發表的偉大演說。反越戰的活動, 悼念愛滋病亡者的活動爭取婦女的生育權的遊行 (2004年)一直到現在都還有各種活動。廣場是這個國家流傳給後代的最偉大的公民舞臺這是言論自由的代名詞即使你不知道你要說的是什麼。它可能只是一個公民表達同理心的地方。 我們認為在這裡有一個巨大的斷裂性介於 廣場這個溝通與漫談的空間還有兩邊的博物館建築 之間這些博物館是通常是被動的這種被動的關係是由博物館扮演呈現者, 而由民眾作為資訊的接收者。所以你可以看到各種恐龍各種昆蟲, 各種火車頭和各種的展示品但你並沒有真正的參與感你只是在接受告知 當理查 · 科沙萊克接任Hirshhorn博物館主任時那是在2009 年，他決心利用這座博物館的地理位置優勢在最獨特的地方也就是美國權力中心的所在地同時這裡也是藝術和政治總是渾然天成地聚集的地方可能有一些非常特殊的關係可以在這個獨特之處發展出來 問題是，究竟有沒有可能把藝術結合到全國和世界事務的對話中呢？而博物館能不能是文化外交的媒介呢？在華盛頓特區有超過 180 使館有超過 500 的智囊團。應該有一種方法可以把這些具有智慧且全球化的能量透過博物館結合, 並運用到博物館裡。應該有某種形式的腦力的基金 所以，當我們開始構思並逐步釐清我們的使命與 理查和他的團隊一起執行Hirshhorn博物館可算是 理查 的心血結晶但除了展示當代藝術展之外Hirshhorn博物館將成為一個公共論壇，一個交流討論的空間主題環繞著 藝術文化、 政治和政策。這裡會有如同 世界經濟論壇 的全球普及性這裡會有像 TED 會議這樣的 跨領域性這裡會有像鄉鎮廣場的 不拘形式為了這一個新的倡議，Hirshhorn 博物館必須要擴展或者轉型成為一個空間採用一種現代的, 容易佈建的結構 這就是 Hirshhorn 博物館的樣子像 一個直徑 230 英尺的混凝土甜甜圈在七十年代早期的時候由戈登 · 邦沙夫特所設計。樸拙而寂靜超群而高傲它是一個設計挑戰。建築師對它又愛又恨有一個可取的特徵就是好像把整個博物館抬離地面形成了這樣的空間感它有一個空的核心具有某種神韻與門面很像企業及聯邦政府的樣式 包圍著中空的區域的環狀建築, 實際上是畫廊。在佈置展場的時候非常非常的具挑戰性當年 Hirshhorn 博物館 開幕的時候阿達 · 路易絲 · Huxstable，紐約時報的批評員，用了一些特別的譬喻來形容""新監獄現代形態""。""一個殘缺的紀念碑和殘缺的廣場用來陳列殘缺的收藏品"" 開幕至今過了四十年這座建築將如何擴建來滿足新的進化的展示內容呢?該往哪個方向擴展?它不能往廣場那邊。因為已沒有空地了它不能往庭園那邊。因為已經被造景與雕塑佔據了。那就往中間的洞吧但要如何利用中間的空洞空間而又不會被原本的建築擋住而無法被看到?怎樣的設計才能具有視覺上的標誌性呢?要如何說出自己的話語呢? Hirshhorn博物館, 就座落在廣場這群具有紀念性的機構之間。大部分都是 新古典主義的、 厚重而不透明的石造的 或是 混凝土的建築物問題是，位於這樣的一個空間的建築國家廣場整體的材質給人什麼樣的感覺呢?這個博物館必須要和其他的建築物有所差異某種全面的差異性在我們的想像中, 這種差異性應該會有空氣的特質，如光線般輕盈會像是曇花一現, 也不會有固定的型態而且是自由的 （視頻） 這就是主要的想法。像是個巨大的安全氣囊。脹大後就是外面的容器的形狀而且會從每個可能的開口冒出來像是頂部和底邊。更詩意的來想像，我們覺得這樣的氣囊結構會自己把國家廣場的民主空氣呼吸進這裡面來充氣前, 和充氣之後的樣子 它被新聞界稱為""大泡泡""。這是休息區基本上就像一個大氣囊的空間從各個方向冒出去氣囊的膜是半透明的。是用鍍了矽層的玻璃纖維做的它充氣一年兩次，一次一個月。 這是從博物館裡面看的樣子您大概已經開始覺得好奇到底我們是怎樣讓聯邦政府批准這樣的設計的實際上要經過兩個機構批准。一個機構是要保持國家廣場的尊嚴和神聖不可侵犯性每當我展示這個圖的時候都會臉紅怎麼看就隨你想像了 但至少我可以說它是一個組合了顛覆傳統卻又結合崇拜另外也有一些富有創造性的解釋方式1910 年設立的的國會建築群法案限制了在華盛頓特區的建築物高度不能超過130 英尺但是 尖頂，塔、 圓頂和尖塔不在此限所以大部分的教會和國家機構的古建築都符合規定我們設計的大泡泡是 153 呎高。跟它旁邊的萬神殿排在一起會像這樣大泡泡裡面的壓縮空氣約有120 萬立方呎。我們把它說成是一種圓頂 看起來會像這樣非常的... 莊嚴魁偉處身在廣場內其他的 莊嚴魁偉的建築群中雖然 Hirshhorn博物館不算是地標建築，但是這建築也具有豐富的歷史意義所以在施工的時候不能真的動到建築表面也不能留下任何的痕跡所以我們從邊緣來框住它用鋼纜來支撐它過程中研究了一些束縛的做法這些都非常重要因為整個結構一直會受風吹在頂部有一個固定的鋼環從廣場的任何角度看過來都不能被看到 還有一些限制就是大泡泡的亮度它是半透明, 裡面的照明會亮出來但它不能亮得超過 國會大廈和其他一些紀念建築在亮度排行榜上是排在後段的 大泡泡每年會被架起來兩次用卡車載運過來然後掛起來然後用低壓空氣吹脹起來再以鋼纜固定底部用水來壓艙固定 這是一個非常奇異的時刻當我們被國家廣場的主管單位問到大泡泡的安裝要花多少時間我們回答說, 第一次立起來會需要一週的時間他們就相信了然後就一路輕鬆的過關了事實上在政府與主管單位的溝通與程序都沒有什麼阻礙 一些最棘手的障礙反而是在技術上這是經編和緯編設計圖這是一個點雲數據圖幾個地方有極端的壓力這是一個非常，非常不尋常的建築結構裡面沒有常見的向下的重力負載而是在每個方向都有壓力附載 我只打算很快掃過這些投影片...這是活動空間的使用場景具有靈活彈性的內部, 可用來開討論會周遭的照明配置是可以調整的配置方式適用於各種用途演出，電影或是裝置藝術而第一次登場的節目將會是一個文化對話的外交活動是和 國際關係委員會共同規劃辦理的 形式與內容在這裡合而為一大泡泡就像是一個反紀念建築參與式民主的理念藉由柔軟度來呈現取代了僵固的體制 藝術和政治佔據了博物館牆外的模糊空間卻又被包含在博物館的核心之內裡面的氛圍與廣場上的民主氛圍交流著我們滿心期待這個大泡泡第一次鼓起來的時候將會發生在2013年底 謝謝 （掌聲）"
