Talk	en	zh-tw
lorrie_faith_cranor_what_s_wrong_with_your_pa_w0rd	"I am a computer science and engineering professor here at Carnegie Mellon, and my research focuses on usable privacy and security, and so my friends like to give me examples of their frustrations with computing systems, especially frustrations related to unusable privacy and security. So passwords are something that I hear a lot about. A lot of people are frustrated with passwords, and it's bad enough when you have to have one really good password that you can remember but nobody else is going to be able to guess. But what do you do when you have accounts on a hundred different systems and you're supposed to have a unique password for each of these systems? It's tough. At Carnegie Mellon, they used to make it actually pretty easy for us to remember our passwords. The password requirement up through 2009 was just that you had to have a password with at least one character. Pretty easy. But then they changed things, and at the end of 2009, they announced that we were going to have a new policy, and this new policy required passwords that were at least eight characters long, with an uppercase letter, lowercase letter, a digit, a symbol, you couldn't use the same character more than three times, and it wasn't allowed to be in a dictionary. Now, when they implemented this new policy, a lot of people, my colleagues and friends, came up to me and they said, ""Wow, now that's really unusable. Why are they doing this to us, and why didn't you stop them?"" And I said, ""Well, you know what? They didn't ask me."" But I got curious, and I decided to go talk to the people in charge of our computer systems and find out what led them to introduce this new policy, and they said that the university had joined a consortium of universities, and one of the requirements of membership was that we had to have stronger passwords that complied with some new requirements, and these requirements were that our passwords had to have a lot of entropy. Now entropy is a complicated term, but basically it measures the strength of passwords. But the thing is, there isn't actually a standard measure of entropy. Now, the National Institute of Standards and Technology has a set of guidelines which have some rules of thumb for measuring entropy, but they don't have anything too specific, and the reason they only have rules of thumb is it turns out they don't actually have any good data on passwords. In fact, their report states, ""Unfortunately, we do not have much data on the passwords users choose under particular rules. NIST would like to obtain more data on the passwords users actually choose, but system administrators are understandably reluctant to reveal password data to others."" So this is a problem, but our research group looked at it as an opportunity. We said, ""Well, there's a need for good password data. Maybe we can collect some good password data and actually advance the state of the art here. So the first thing we did is, we got a bag of candy bars and we walked around campus and talked to students, faculty and staff, and asked them for information about their passwords. Now we didn't say, ""Give us your password."" No, we just asked them about their password. How long is it? Does it have a digit? Does it have a symbol? And were you annoyed at having to create a new one last week? So we got results from 470 students, faculty and staff, and indeed we confirmed that the new policy was very annoying, but we also found that people said they felt more secure with these new passwords. We found that most people knew they were not supposed to write their password down, and only 13 percent of them did, but disturbingly, 80 percent of people said they were reusing their password. Now, this is actually more dangerous than writing your password down, because it makes you much more susceptible to attackers. So if you have to, write your passwords down, but don't reuse them. We also found some interesting things about the symbols people use in passwords. So CMU allows 32 possible symbols, but as you can see, there's only a small number that most people are using, so we're not actually getting very much strength from the symbols in our passwords. So this was a really interesting study, and now we had data from 470 people, but in the scheme of things, that's really not very much password data, and so we looked around to see where could we find additional password data? So it turns out there are a lot of people going around stealing passwords, and they often go and post these passwords on the Internet. So we were able to get access to some of these stolen password sets. This is still not really ideal for research, though, because it's not entirely clear where all of these passwords came from, or exactly what policies were in effect when people created these passwords. So we wanted to find some better source of data. So we decided that one thing we could do is we could do a study and have people actually create passwords for our study. So we used a service called Amazon Mechanical Turk, and this is a service where you can post a small job online that takes a minute, a few minutes, an hour, and pay people, a penny, ten cents, a few dollars, to do a task for you, and then you pay them through Amazon.com. So we paid people about 50 cents to create a password following our rules and answering a survey, and then we paid them again to come back two days later and log in using their password and answering another survey. So we did this, and we collected 5,000 passwords, and we gave people a bunch of different policies to create passwords with. So some people had a pretty easy policy, we call it Basic8, and here the only rule was that your password had to have at least eight characters. Then some people had a much harder policy, and this was very similar to the CMU policy, that it had to have eight characters including uppercase, lowercase, digit, symbol, and pass a dictionary check. And one of the other policies we tried, and there were a whole bunch more, but one of the ones we tried was called Basic16, and the only requirement here was that your password had to have at least 16 characters. All right, so now we had 5,000 passwords, and so we had much more detailed information. Again we see that there's only a small number of symbols that people are actually using in their passwords. We also wanted to get an idea of how strong the passwords were that people were creating, but as you may recall, there isn't a good measure of password strength. So what we decided to do was to see how long it would take to crack these passwords using the best cracking tools that the bad guys are using, or that we could find information about in the research literature. So to give you an idea of how bad guys go about cracking passwords, they will steal a password file that will have all of the passwords in kind of a scrambled form, called a hash, and so what they'll do is they'll make a guess as to what a password is, run it through a hashing function, and see whether it matches the passwords they have on their stolen password list. So a dumb attacker will try every password in order. They'll start with AAAAA and move on to AAAAB, and this is going to take a really long time before they get any passwords that people are really likely to actually have. A smart attacker, on the other hand, does something much more clever. They look at the passwords that are known to be popular from these stolen password sets, and they guess those first. So they're going to start by guessing ""password,"" and then they'll guess ""I love you,"" and ""monkey,"" and ""12345678,"" because these are the passwords that are most likely for people to have. In fact, some of you probably have these passwords. So what we found by running all of these 5,000 passwords we collected through these tests to see how strong they were, we found that the long passwords were actually pretty strong, and the complex passwords were pretty strong too. However, when we looked at the survey data, we saw that people were really frustrated by the very complex passwords, and the long passwords were a lot more usable, and in some cases, they were actually even stronger than the complex passwords. So this suggests that, instead of telling people that they need to put all these symbols and numbers and crazy things into their passwords, we might be better off just telling people to have long passwords. Now here's the problem, though: Some people had long passwords that actually weren't very strong. You can make long passwords that are still the sort of thing that an attacker could easily guess. So we need to do more than just say long passwords. There has to be some additional requirements, and some of our ongoing research is looking at what additional requirements we should add to make for stronger passwords that also are going to be easy for people to remember and type. Another approach to getting people to have stronger passwords is to use a password meter. Here are some examples. You may have seen these on the Internet when you were creating passwords. We decided to do a study to find out whether these password meters actually work. Do they actually help people have stronger passwords, and if so, which ones are better? So we tested password meters that were different sizes, shapes, colors, different words next to them, and we even tested one that was a dancing bunny. As you type a better password, the bunny dances faster and faster. So this was pretty fun. What we found was that password meters do work. (Laughter) Most of the password meters were actually effective, and the dancing bunny was very effective too, but the password meters that were the most effective were the ones that made you work harder before they gave you that thumbs up and said you were doing a good job, and in fact we found that most of the password meters on the Internet today are too soft. They tell you you're doing a good job too early, and if they would just wait a little bit before giving you that positive feedback, you probably would have better passwords. Now another approach to better passwords, perhaps, is to use pass phrases instead of passwords. So this was an xkcd cartoon  from a couple of years ago, and the cartoonist suggests that we should all use pass phrases, and if you look at the second row of this cartoon, you can see the cartoonist is suggesting that the pass phrase ""correct horse battery staple"" would be a very strong pass phrase and something really easy to remember. He says, in fact, you've already remembered it. And so we decided to do a research study to find out whether this was true or not. In fact, everybody who I talk to, who I mention I'm doing password research, they point out this cartoon. ""Oh, have you seen it? That xkcd. Correct horse battery staple."" So we did the research study to see what would actually happen. So in our study, we used Mechanical Turk again, and we had the computer pick the random words in the pass phrase. Now the reason we did this is that humans are not very good at picking random words. If we asked a human to do it, they would pick things that were not very random. So we tried a few different conditions. In one condition, the computer picked from a dictionary of the very common words in the English language, and so you'd get pass phrases like ""try there three come."" And we looked at that, and we said, ""Well, that doesn't really seem very memorable."" So then we tried picking words that came from specific parts of speech, so how about noun-verb-adjective-noun. That comes up with something that's sort of sentence-like. So you can get a pass phrase like ""plan builds sure power"" or ""end determines red drug."" And these seemed a little bit more memorable, and maybe people would like those a little bit better. We wanted to compare them with passwords, and so we had the computer pick random passwords, and these were nice and short, but as you can see, they don't really look very memorable. And then we decided to try something called a pronounceable password. So here the computer picks random syllables and puts them together so you have something sort of pronounceable, like ""tufritvi"" and ""vadasabi."" That one kind of rolls off your tongue. So these were random passwords that were generated by our computer. So what we found in this study was that, surprisingly, pass phrases were not actually all that good. People were not really better at remembering the pass phrases than these random passwords, and because the pass phrases are longer, they took longer to type and people made more errors while typing them in. So it's not really a clear win for pass phrases. Sorry, all of you xkcd fans. On the other hand, we did find that pronounceable passwords worked surprisingly well, and so we actually are doing some more research to see if we can make that approach work even better. So one of the problems with some of the studies that we've done is that because they're all done using Mechanical Turk, these are not people's real passwords. They're the passwords that they created or the computer created for them for our study. And we wanted to know whether people would actually behave the same way with their real passwords. So we talked to the information security office at Carnegie Mellon and asked them if we could have everybody's real passwords. Not surprisingly, they were a little bit reluctant to share them with us, but we were actually able to work out a system with them where they put all of the real passwords for 25,000 CMU students, faculty and staff, into a locked computer in a locked room, not connected to the Internet, and they ran code on it that we wrote to analyze these passwords. They audited our code. They ran the code. And so we never actually saw anybody's password. We got some interesting results, and those of you Tepper students in the back will be very interested in this. So we found that the passwords created by people affiliated with the school of computer science were actually 1.8 times stronger than those affiliated with the business school. We have lots of other really interesting demographic information as well. The other interesting thing that we found is that when we compared the Carnegie Mellon passwords to the Mechanical Turk-generated passwords, there was actually a lot of similarities, and so this helped validate our research method and show that actually, collecting passwords using these Mechanical Turk studies is actually a valid way to study passwords. So that was good news. Okay, I want to close by talking about some insights I gained while on sabbatical last year in the Carnegie Mellon art school. One of the things that I did is I made a number of quilts, and I made this quilt here. It's called ""Security Blanket."" (Laughter) And this quilt has the 1,000 most frequent passwords stolen from the RockYou website. And the size of the passwords is proportional to how frequently they appeared in the stolen dataset. And what I did is I created this word cloud, and I went through all 1,000 words, and I categorized them into loose thematic categories. And it was, in some cases, it was kind of difficult to figure out what category they should be in, and then I color-coded them. So here are some examples of the difficulty. So ""justin."" Is that the name of the user, their boyfriend, their son? Maybe they're a Justin Bieber fan. Or ""princess."" Is that a nickname? Are they Disney princess fans? Or maybe that's the name of their cat. ""Iloveyou"" appears many times in many different languages. There's a lot of love in these passwords. If you look carefully, you'll see there's also some profanity, but it was really interesting to me to see that there's a lot more love than hate in these passwords. And there are animals, a lot of animals, and ""monkey"" is the most common animal and the 14th most popular password overall. And this was really curious to me, and I wondered, ""Why are monkeys so popular?"" And so in our last password study, any time we detected somebody creating a password with the word ""monkey"" in it, we asked them why they had a monkey in their password. And what we found out — we found 17 people so far, I think, who have the word ""monkey"" — We found out about a third of them said they have a pet named ""monkey"" or a friend whose nickname is ""monkey,"" and about a third of them said that they just like monkeys and monkeys are really cute. And that guy is really cute. So it seems that at the end of the day, when we make passwords, we either make something that's really easy to type, a common pattern, or things that remind us of the word password or the account that we've created the password for, or whatever. Or we think about things that make us happy, and we create our password based on things that make us happy. And while this makes typing and remembering your password more fun, it also makes it a lot easier to guess your password. So I know a lot of these TED Talks are inspirational and they make you think about nice, happy things, but when you're creating your password, try to think about something else. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我是卡內基美隆大學(Carnegie Mellon)電腦科學及工程的教授我研究的專長是有用的隱私權和安全性所以我的朋友們喜歡提供我一些例子使用電腦系統時遇到的挫折尤其是碰到不能用的隱私權和安全性 密碼就是常見的例子很多人對密碼設定感到挫折尤其是當你需要一組很好用的密碼你自己記得住但沒人猜的到但當你好幾個帳戶都在不同的系統環境上而每個帳戶都要有個獨特的密碼你要怎麼辦呢？那不容易 卡內基美隆大學過去設定密碼很簡單我們很容易記住到2009年以前密碼設定只要求至少一個字元非常簡單 但後來他們改變了規則到了2009年底他們公布了一項新規定新規定要求密碼至少要有八個字元包括一個大寫字母 一個小寫字母一個數字 一個符號相同字元不能超過三次不可是字典查得到的 現在他們實施新規定我的同事 朋友 還有很多人告訴我 說: 哇現在真的變得好難用他們為何這麼做妳怎麼不阻止他們？ 我說: 你知道嗎？他們沒問我 可我也很好奇 所以決定要跟那些管理我們電腦系統的人談談了解到底什麼原因讓他們導入這新政策他們說卡內基美隆大學加入了大學聯盟成為會員的條件包括提高密碼的安全性好符合新的規定新規定要求密碼必須要有很多熵值現在這熵值是個很複雜的名詞基本上它可衡量密碼的強度可事實上熵值沒有衡量的標準現在 國家標準與技術研究所有整套指引指引裡有一些經驗法則用於測量熵值但他們沒有什麼太具體的東西他們會只有經驗法則因為他們其實沒有很精確的密碼數據實際上他們的報告指出：不幸的是我們數據不多特別是 密碼使用者在特定規則下選擇密碼NIST想獲得更多使用者選擇密碼的資料但系統管理員當然不願意透露密碼資料給其他人 所以這是個問題 但我們的研究小組視它作為一個機會 我們說 好的密碼資料是有必要的也許我們可以收集一些好的密碼資料有助於提昇技術現況 所以 我們做的第一件事是我們拿了一包糖果在校園裡跟學生 教師和工作人員解釋並跟他們要求取得關於他們設定密碼的資訊我們並不是說 請給我們您的密碼我們只是詢問他們的密碼多長？有一個數字嗎？有一個符號嗎？上星期要重設的新密碼會不會讓你覺得很煩？因此 我們得到了來自470位學生 教師和工作人員的回饋事實上我們也證實了新的政策實在令人討厭但我們也發現 有人說他們認為這些新密碼更安全我們發現大多數人都知道不應該把密碼寫下來而其中只有13％的人有把密碼寫下來但令人不安的是80％的人表示他們重複使用他們的密碼這其實比寫下密碼來得更危險因為你更容易受到駭客攻擊所以 必要時寫下密碼但不要重複使用我們還發現了一些有趣的事情關於密碼中的符號CMU允許使用的符號有32個但正如你所見 只有少數符號常常被使用所以實際上 我們密碼也沒有變得更強因為密碼裡有了符號 這是一個非常有趣的研究現在我們有470人的資料但對這項計劃而言這些數據不算多所以我們想周圍那裡可以找到更多密碼資料？後來我們發現 原來有很多人到處去竊取密碼然後在網路上發佈這些密碼我們取得其中一些被盜的密碼雖然這對研究來說不是很理想因為我們不清楚這些密碼從哪裡來還是他們設密碼時採取了什麼樣的策略因此 我們希望找到較好的資料來源所以我們發現可以做一件事我們打算展開研究計畫讓人們實際來設定密碼我們使用了""亞馬遜機器游牧民族""提供的服務這是一種群眾外包服務平台在那裡 你可以張貼微型線上工作資訊只需要幾分種 一小時就能完成然後付些錢給幫你完成工作的人然後透過Amazon.com付費給他們我們一共付了約50分美元讓人根據我們的規則 設立密碼並回答問卷然後 再付給他們一筆錢請他們兩天後回來用他們的密碼登錄再回答另一份問卷就這樣我們收集了5,000個密碼要求他們依不同規則設立密碼有些人的規則很簡單我們叫它Basic8它只要求密碼至少有八個字元有些人的規則就比較困難跟卡內基美隆大學的作法很像它必須有8個字元包括大寫 小寫 數字 符號並通過字典檢查我們試過其中的規則之一並還有更多但其中一種稱為Basic16唯一的要求是密碼至少有16個字元 所以現在我們有5,000個密碼還有詳細的資訊我們又看到只有少數的符號被使用在密碼中我們也希望知道人們設立的密碼的強度但你可能還記得 還沒有一個很好的衡量密碼強度的方法所以我們決定要看看使用駭客用的破解工具或是使用我們在文獻可以找的到的資訊需要多長時間來破解這些密碼因此 讓你們來看看駭客如何破解密碼他們竊取密碼檔案這檔案中的密碼呈現混亂形式 稱為散列他們會用猜測的方式來猜測密碼再用散列函數程式跑過看是否能在他們偷來的密碼中找到相同密碼所以 一個愚蠢駭客會將密碼一個一個順序試從AAAAA開始 到AAAAB這要花很長的時間才能得到有可能人們真正設置的密碼另一方面 一個聰明的駭客作法就聰明些他們猜測密碼時先試從這些偷來的密碼組中常用的密碼因此 他們要開始猜測“密碼”時他們會先猜 “我愛你” 和 “猴子”和“12345678”因為這些密碼是最多人用事實上 你們可能也有這些密碼所以 我們發現用我們收集的5,000個密碼用這些測試 看看他們的強度是如何我們發現長密碼通常強度很高而複雜的密碼也相當強然而 當我們看到這調查數據我們看到人們對非常複雜的密碼很有挫折感長的密碼會實用很多在某些情況下他們比複雜密碼更強這告訴我們比較好是告訴人們使用長密碼而不是告訴人們他們要把這些符號和數字和瘋狂的東西放進自己的密碼中現在 有個問題：有些人有長密碼但其實並不是很強你可以有長的密碼仍是那些駭客可以很容易地猜到的密碼所以我們需要的不只是長密碼還有一些其他的要求我們正在進行的一些研究是在尋找應該加入什麼樣的要求讓密碼強度更高並且很容易讓人記住和輸入 讓人們設置強度高密碼的另一種方法是使用一個密碼強度測量表下面是一些例子當你在網路上設立密碼時你可能已經看過這些我們決定做研究找出這些密碼強度測量表是否真的有用它們是否真的有助於設立強的密碼若有的話 哪個更好？所以我們在密碼旁加入不同的大小 形狀 顏色的密碼強度測量表我們甚至用一個跳舞的兔子當你輸入一個較好的密碼兔子會跳舞跳得越來越快這很有趣 我們發現密碼強度測量表真的有用(笑聲)大部分的密碼測量表都真的有效跳舞的兔子也很有效最有效的密碼測量表再給你大拇指讚之前告訴你做的好之前你已做了很多工做而事實上 我們發現目前網路上大部分的測量表都太弱他們都太早告訴你 你做的好 在給你的正面回饋之前他們只要再等久一點點你可能就會有更好的密碼 另一種更好地設密碼的方法就是使用密語 而不是密碼所以這是一個幾年前的XKCD卡通漫畫家建議我們都應該使用密語如果你看這部動畫片的第二行可以看到漫畫家建議密語 “正確的馬電池主食”是一個非常強密語也很容易記住他說 事實上 你已經記住了所以我們決定做一個研究看這是真還是假事實上 我們訪問的對象當我們提到是做密碼的研究他們提到這部動畫片“你看過那XKCD嗎？正確的馬電池主食""所以我們做了調查研究看看到底會發生什麼 研究中 我們再次使用群眾外包平台我們讓電腦隨機在密語中選字我們這樣做的原因是人類不是很會隨機選字如果我們找人來做他們挑的都不是很隨機因此 我們嘗試了一些不同的情況在其中一種情況下電腦從字典選出英文很常見的字所以你可能會有“試那兒三來” 的密語我們看了說這似乎不是很好記於是當我們嘗試在演說中的特定部分來選字就像名詞 動詞 形容詞 名詞我們得到像句子的東西這樣你就可以得到一個密語 像是""計畫建造肯定力量""或是 ""結束決定紅色藥""而這些似乎比較容易記住也許人們會比較喜歡一點我們希望將它們與密碼進行比較所以我們用電腦挑隨機密碼這些都是又短又好 但你會發現他們看起來不好記後我們決定嘗試一種叫做可發音密碼這是電腦隨機挑選的音節並把它們放在一起你得到這樣好像讀得出來的東西“tufritvi”和“vadasabi”又有點讓舌頭打結這些都是電腦產生的隨機密碼我們在這項研究發現是 驚訝的是 密語實際上不是那麼好人們記密語并不比隨機密碼記得更好並且因為密語較長需要較長的時間來輸入輸入時容易出錯所以密語不會比較好 xkcd的粉絲們 抱歉了在另一方面 我們確實發現那可發音密碼出奇地好用所以我們正在做一些調查研究看看我們是否可以讓這方法做得更好我們已經做的一些研究中 有一個問題就是因為這些研究都是在群眾外包平台上執行這些都不是人們的真正密碼這些是為研究而創造的密碼或者為電腦產生的密碼而我們想知道是否實際上人們具有相同的行為方式來設定他們的真實密碼因此 我們請卡內積梅隆的資訊安全辦公室 為我們提供大家的真實密碼不出意外 他們是有點不願意與我們分享但是我們共同想出一個辦法他們用來儲存CMU25,000個學生，教師，和員工真實密碼的系統放在一台鎖碼的電腦里 鎖在教室沒有網路連線他們操作我們所寫的代碼來分析密碼他們審核我們的代碼他們跑這些代碼所以我們並沒真正看到任何人的密碼我們得到了一些有趣的結果 那些在後面的太普學生都會對此很感興趣我們發現電腦科學學院學生密碼比那些商學院學生的密碼要強1.8倍我們有很多其他的真的很有趣人口統計資訊另一個有趣的事情當我們比較卡內基梅隆和群眾外包平台生成的密碼實際上存在很多的相似之處所以這有助於驗證我們的研究方法並顯示 實際上群眾外包平台收集的密碼對我們的研究很有效所以這是個好消息好吧 我想用下面所說的來做總結 一些我去年在卡內基·梅隆藝術學校公休時獲得的啟發其中一個我做的事就是我做了一些拼布棉被這是我在這裡做的叫做 ""安全性毯子""(笑聲)這棉被上有RockYou網站上公布的1000個最常被偷的密碼密碼的大小顯示他們再被盜資料庫中出現頻率成正比而我創造了這個字雲我把 1000個字歸類成幾個大項並且在某些情況下很難將他們歸類然後我就用顏色碼來分這裡是一些有難度的例子 譬如""賈斯汀""是用戶的名字男友 兒子?或許是賈斯汀·比伯的粉絲又或是""公主""是個暱稱他們是迪士尼公主的粉絲嗎?又或是是他們貓咪的名字""我愛你"" 用很多不同語言出現很多次在這些密碼中 很多愛字如果你仔細看你會發現也有些褻瀆很有趣 我看到了這些密碼中愛比恨多還有動物很多的動物而“猴子”是最常見的動物第14個最受歡迎的密碼我對此很好奇 也很納悶“為什麼是猴子如此受歡迎？”所以在我們最後一個密碼研究當我們發現有人在設定密碼中出現""猴子""我們問他們原因我們發現—-目前有17個人密碼設置為猴子有三分之一的人說他們有叫""猴子 ""的寵物或有朋友暱稱""猴子""而有三分之一的說他們就是喜歡猴子猴子很可愛而那人真的很可愛最終這似乎表明 當我們選密碼時並不選擇那些很容易輸入的東西常見的模式 或是提醒我們有關密碼的東西或提醒有關帳號或是其他的或是想到讓我們感到快樂的事然後我們基於讓我們快樂的事來設置密碼雖然這使我們輸入密碼及記憶密碼的時候變得有趣但也更容易猜測你所設立的密碼我知道TED的很多演講都很有啓發性並常常是可愛快樂的主題但當你設立密碼時試著用其他的心態去創造你的密碼謝謝大家 （掌聲）"
