Talk	en	zh-tw
lucien_engelen_crowdsource_your_health	"I would like to talk to you about why many ehealth projects fail. And I really think that the most important thing of it is that we stopped listening to patients. And one thing we did at Radboud University is we appointed a Chief Listening Officer. Not in a very scientific way — she puts up a little cup of coffee or a cup of tea and asks patients, family, relatives, ""What's up? How could we help you?"" And we think, we like to think, that this is one of the major problems why all — maybe not all — but most of the ehealth projects fail, since we stopped listening. This is my weight scale. It's a very simple thing. It's got one knob, on/off. And every morning I hop on it. And yes, I've got a challenge, as you might see. And I put my challenge on 95 kg. But the thing is that it's made this simple that whenever I hop on, it sends my data to Google Health as well. And it's collected by my general practitioner as well, so he can see what's my problem in weight, not on the very moment that I need cardiologic support or something like it, but also looking backward. But there's another thing. As some of you might know, I've got more than 4000 followers on Twitter. So every morning, I hop on my weight scale and before I'm in my car, people start talking to me, ""I think you need a light lunch today, Lucien."" (Laughter) But that's the nicest thing that could happen, since this is peer pressure. Peer pressure used to help patients — since this could be used for obesity, it could be used to stop patients from smoking. But on the other hand, it also could be used to get people out of their chairs and try to work together in some kind of gaming activity to get more control of their health. As of next week, it will soon be available, there will be this little blood-pressure meter connected to an iPhone or something or other. And people will be able, from their homes, to take their blood pressure, send it to their doctor and eventually share it with others, for instance, for over a 100 dollars. And this is the point where patients get into position and can collect, not only their own control again, be captain of their own ship, but also can help us in health care due to the challenges that we face, like health-care cost explosion, doubled demand and things like that, make techniques that are easy to use and start with this to embrace patients in the team. And you can do this with techniques like this, but also by crowdsourcing. And one of the things we did, that I would like to share with you introduced by a little video. (Music) (Heart-beat) We've all got navigation controls in our car. We maybe even have it in our cellphone. We perfectly know where all the ATMs are, just about the city of Maastricht. The other thing is we know where all the gas stations are. And sure, we could find fast food chains. But where would be the nearest AED to help this patient? We asked around, and nobody knew. Nobody knew where the nearest lifesaving AED was to be obtained right now. So what we did, we crowdsourced the Netherlands. We set up a website, and asked the crowd, ""If you see an AED, please submit it, tell us where it is, tell us when it's open,"" since sometimes in office hours it's closed, of course. And over 10,000 AEDs in the Netherlands already have been submitted. The next step we took was to find the applications for it. And we built an iPad application. We made an application for Layar: Augmented Reality, to find these AEDs. And whenever you are in a city like Maastricht, and somebody collapses, you can use your iPhone, and within the next weeks also your Microsoft cellphone, to find the nearest AED, which can save lives. And as of today, we would like to introduce this, not only as AED4EU, which is what the product is called, but also AED4US. And we would like to start this on a worldwide level. And ask all of our colleagues in the rest of the world, colleague universities, to help us to find and work and act like a hub to crowdsource all these AEDs all around the world, that whenever you're on holiday and somebody collapses, might it be your own relative or someone just in front of you, you can find this. The other thing we would like to ask is of companies also all over the world that will be able to help us validate these AEDs. These might be courier services or cable guys, for instance, just to see whether the AED that is submitted is still in place. So please help us on this one and try to make not only health a little bit better, but take control of it. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要跟你們說為什麼很多線上健康企劃會失敗。我真的認為最主要的原因是我們不再聽病人說什麼。我們在荷蘭奈美恩大學做了一件事，我們指定一個主要的傾聽人員。這不是非常科學的方法 —她倒了一些咖啡或茶，問病人或者他的家人和親戚們：「最近好嗎？我們可以給你什麼協助？」我們的想法是，幾乎全部 — 可能不是全部 —但大部分線上健康企劃失敗的主要原因之一是我們不再傾聽。 這是我的可無線上網體重機，非常簡單的東西。上面有一個按鈕，開和關。每天早上我站到上面。是的，我有一個挑戰，如你所見。我要挑戰減重到95公斤。這台體重機讓事情變得很簡單，當我隨時站上去，它也會將我的資料傳輸到Google Healthe(開放性醫療管理平台)。我的醫師也會收到這些資料，所以他可以觀察我的體重問題，而不是等到我有心臟病時需要接受幫助之類的時候，還有他也可以查詢歷史紀錄。還有一件事。你們當中可能有人知道，我在推特上有超過4000名跟隨者。於是每天早上我站上我的可無線上網的體重機，當我進入我的車前，人們開始跟我說：「我想你今天午餐要吃少一點，Lucien。」 (笑聲) 但是往好處想，這是同儕壓力，同儕壓力可幫助病人 —像是有肥胖問題，或者是要戒菸的病人。此外，這也可以用來讓人們離開座位且試著一起參予些有比賽性質的活動來控制他們的健康。 下周即將上市的是這個小的血壓計，可以連接到iPhone或者其它設備，所以人們將能夠在家裡測量血壓，將數值傳給他們的醫生，最後和其他人分享，費用大約是100歐元出頭。這樣一來，病人可以搜集自己的資料，他們不僅再度擁有控制權，當自己的掌舵者，這也對保健事業有所幫助，考慮到我們現在所面臨的挑戰，像是保健成本劇增，需求倍增等情況， 製作容易使用的技術，開始將病患納入這團隊中。你可以透過像是這種技術參與其中，也可以透過群眾外包的力量。我想要藉由一小段影片介紹我們做的一件事。 (音樂) 我們在車內都有安裝導航系統。甚至也有裝在手機裡。我們知道在馬斯垂克市裡所有的自動提款機在哪裡。我們也知道所有的加油站在哪。毫無疑問，我們也可以找到速食連鎖店。但是哪裡可以找到最近的電擊器以幫助病患？我們四處詢問，但沒有人知道。沒人知道現在可以在附近哪裡取得可救命的電擊器。 我們做的是在荷蘭進行群眾外包。我們架設一個網站請求大家，「如果你看到一個電擊器，請傳送此資訊，告訴我們它在哪哩，告訴我們店什麼時候開。」因為店家有營業和休息的時間。群眾已經傳送超過一萬個在荷蘭的電擊器資訊。我們接著要找到搭配的應用程式，於是我們製作了一個iPad應用程式。我們為Layar製作一個擴增實境定位的應用程式，以找到這些電擊器。於是當你在像馬斯垂克這樣一個城市中的任何地方，有人倒下了，你可以使用你的iPhone，還有再過幾個星期，你也可以用你的微軟手機，找到最近的電擊器以搶救生命。 今天，我們要介紹這程式，不僅是以程式名稱，AED4U (為你)，這也是AED4US (為我們)。而且我們想要以全世界為基礎作為起點。我們請求散布在世界其它各地的同事們，同類型大學來幫助我們，蒐集，合作且做為全世界各地進行群眾外包蒐集電擊器資訊的中心。當你度假時，剛好有人倒下，那人可能是你的親戚或者站在你前面的人，你就可以找到這個。另外我們想要請求全世界可幫助我們驗證這些電擊器資訊的公司，有可能是快遞公司或者有線電視業者之類的，能確認這些被提交的電擊器位置是否仍在原地。 所以請幫助我們不僅是嘗試提升健康，也試著掌握健康。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
