Talk	en	zh-tw
lz_granderson_the_myth_of_the_gay_agenda	"When I was about 16 years old I can remember flipping through channels at home during summer vacation, looking for a movie to watch on HBO — and how many of you remember ""Ferris Bueller's Day Off""? Oh yeah, great movie, right? — Well, I saw Matthew Broderick on the screen, and so I thought, ""Sweet! Ferris Bueller. I'll watch this!"" It wasn't Ferris Bueller. And forgive me Matthew Broderick, I know you've done other movies besides Ferris Bueller, but that's how I remember you; you're Ferris. But you weren't doing Ferris-y things at the time; you were doing gay things at the time. He was in a movie called ""Torch Song Trilogy."" And ""Torch Song Trilogy"" was based on a play about this drag queen who essentially was looking for love. Love and respect — that's what the whole film was about. And as I'm watching it, I'm realizing that they're talking about me. Not the drag queen part — I am not shaving my hair for anyone — but the gay part. The finding love and respect, the part about trying to find your place in the world. So as I'm watching this, I see this powerful scene that brought me to tears, and it stuck with me for the past 25 years. And there's this quote that the main character, Arnold, tells his mother as they're fighting about who he is and the life that he lives. ""There's one thing more — there's just one more thing you better understand. I've taught myself to sew, cook, fix plumbing, build furniture, I can even pat myself on the back when necessary, all so I don't have to ask anyone for anything. There's nothing I need from anyone except for love and respect, and anyone who can't give me those two things has no place in my life."" I remember that scene like it was yesterday; I was 16, I was in tears, I was in the closet, and I'm looking at these two people, Ferris Bueller and some guy I'd never seen before, fighting for love. When I finally got to a place in my life where I came out and accepted who I was, and was really quite happy, to tell you the truth, I was happily gay and I guess that's supposed to be right because gay means happy too. I realized there were a lot of people who weren't as gay as I was — gay being happy, not gay being attracted to the same sex. In fact, I heard that there was a lot of hate and a lot of anger and a lot of frustration and a lot of fear about who I was and the gay lifestyle. Now, I'm sitting here trying to figure out ""the gay lifestyle,"" ""the gay lifestyle,"" and I keep hearing this word over and over and over again: lifestyle, lifestyle, lifestyle. I've even heard politicians say that the gay lifestyle is a greater threat to civilization than terrorism. That's when I got scared. Because I'm thinking, if I'm gay and I'm doing something that's going to destroy civilization, I need to figure out what this stuff is, and I need to stop doing it right now. (Laughter) So, I took a look at my life, a hard look at my life, and I saw some things very disturbing. (Laughter) And I want to begin sharing these evil things that I've been doing with you, starting with my mornings. I drink coffee. Not only do I drink coffee, I know other gay people who drink coffee. I get stuck in traffic — evil, evil traffic. Sometimes I get stuck in lines at airports. I look around, and I go, ""My God, look at all these gay people! We're all trapped in these lines! These long lines trying to get on an airplane! My God, this lifestyle that I'm living is so freaking evil!"" I clean up. This is not an actual photograph of my son's room; his is messier. And because I have a 15-year-old, all I do is cook and cook and cook. Any parents out there of teenagers? All we do is cook for these people — they eat two, three, four dinners a night — it's ridiculous! This is the gay lifestyle. And after I'm done cooking and cleaning and standing in line and getting stuck in traffic, my partner and I, we get together and we decide that we're gonna go and have some wild and crazy fun. (Laughter) We're usually in bed before we find out who's eliminated on ""American Idol."" We have to wake up and find out the next day who's still on because we're too freaking tired to hear who stays on. This is the super duper evil gay lifestyle. Run for your heterosexual lives, people. (Applause) When my partner, Steve, and I first started dating, he told me this story about penguins. And I didn't know where he was going with it at first. He was kind of a little bit nervous when he was sharing it with me, but he told me that when a penguin finds a mate that they want to spend the rest of their life with, they present them with a pebble — the perfect pebble. And then he reaches into his pocket, and he brings this out to me. And I looked at it, and I was like, this is really cool. And he says, ""I want to spend the rest of my life with you."" So I wear this whenever I have to do something that makes me a little nervous, like, I don't know, a TEDx talk. I wear this when I am apart from him for a long period of time. And sometimes I just wear it just because. How many people out there are in love? Anyone in love out there? You might be gay. (Laughter) Because I, too, am in love, and apparently that's part of the gay lifestyle that I warned you about. (Applause) You may want to tell your spouse. Who, if they're in love, might be gay as well. How many of you are single? Any single people out there? You too might be gay! Because I know some gay people who are also single. It's really scary, this gay lifestyle thing; it's super duper evil and there's no end to it! It goes and goes and engulfs! It's really quite silly, isn't it? That's why I'm so happy to finally hear President Obama come out and say (Applause) that he supports — (Applause) that he supports marriage equality. It's a wonderful day in our country's history; it's a wonderful day in the globe's history to be able to have an actual sitting president say, enough of this — first to himself, and then to the rest of the world. It's wonderful. But there's something that's been disturbing me since he made that remark just a short time ago. And that is, apparently, this is just another move by the gay activists that's on the gay agenda. And I'm disturbed by this because I've been openly gay now for quite some time. I've been to all of the functions, I've been to fundraisers, I've written about the topic, and I have yet to receive my copy of this gay agenda. (Laughter) I've paid my dues on time, (Laughter) I've marched in gay pride flags parades and the whole nine, and I've yet to see a copy of the gay agenda. It's very, very frustrating, and I was feeling left out, like I wasn't quite gay enough. But then something wonderful happened: I was out shopping, as I tend to do, and I came across a bootleg copy of the official gay agenda. And I said to myself, ""LZ, for so long, you have been denied this. When you get in front of this crowd, you're gonna share the news. You're gonna spread the gay agenda so no one else has to wonder, what exactly is in the gay agenda? What are these gays up to? What do they want?"" So, without further ado, I will present to you, ladies and gentlemen — now be careful, 'cause it's evil — a copy, the official copy, of the gay agenda. (Music) The gay agenda, people! (Applause) There it is! Did you soak it all in? The gay agenda. Some of you may be calling it, what, the Constitution of the United States, is that what you call it too? The U.S. Constitution is the gay agenda. These gays, people like me, want to be treated like full citizens and it's all written down in plain sight. I was blown away when I saw it. I was like, wait, this is the gay agenda? Why didn't you just call it the Constitution so I knew what you were talking about? I wouldn't have been so confused; I wouldn't have been so upset. But there it is. The gay agenda. Run for your heterosexual lives. Did you know that in all the states where there is no shading that people who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered can be kicked out of their apartments for being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered? That's the only reason that a landlord needs to have them removed, because there's no protection from discrimination of GLBT people. Did you know in the states where there's no shading that you can be fired for being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered? Not based upon the quality of your work, how long you've been there, if you stink, just if you're gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered. All of which flies in the face of the gay agenda, also known as the U.S. Constitution. Specifically, this little amendment right here: ""No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States."" I'm looking at you, North Carolina. But you're not looking at the U.S. Constitution. This is the gay agenda: equality. Not special rights, but the rights that were already written by these people — these elitists, if you will. Educated, well-dressed, (Laughter) some would dare say questionably dressed. (Laughter) Nonetheless, our forefathers, right? The people that, we say, knew what they were doing when they wrote the Constitution — the gay agenda, if you will. All of that flies in the face of what they did. That is the reason why I felt it was imperative that I presented you with this copy of the gay agenda. Because I figured if I made it funny, you wouldn't be as threatened. I figured if I was a bit irreverent, you wouldn't find it serious. But when you see the map, and you see our state of Michigan — it's legal to fire someone for being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered, that it's legal to remove someone from their home because they're gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered, then you realize that this whole conversation about marriage equality is not about stripping someone's rights away, it's about granting them the rights that [have] already been stated. And we're just trying to walk in those rights that have already been stated, that we've already agreed upon. There are people living in fear of losing their jobs so they don't show anyone who they really are right here at home. This isn't just about North Carolina; all those states that were clear, it's legal. If I could brag for a second, I have a 15-year-old son from my marriage. He has a 4.0. He is starting a new club at school, Policy Debate. He's a budding track star; he has almost every single record in middle school for every event that he competed in. He volunteers. He prays before he eats. I would like to think, as his father — and he lives with me primarily — that I had a little something to do with all of that. I would like to think that he's a good boy, a respectful young man. I would like to think that I've proven to be a capable father. But if I were to go to the state of Michigan today, and try to adopt a young person who is in an orphanage, I would be disqualified for only one reason: because I'm gay. It doesn't matter what I've already proven, what I can do with my heart. It's because of what the state of Michigan says that I am that I am disqualified for any sort of adoption. And that's not just about me, that's about so many other Michiganders, U.S. citizens, who don't understand why what they are is so much more significant than who they are. This story just keeps playing over and over and over again in our country's history. There was a time in which, I don't know, people who were black couldn't have the same rights. People who happened to be women didn't have the same rights, couldn't vote. There was a point in our history in which, if you were considered disabled, that an employer could just fire you, before the Americans with Disabilities Act. We keep doing this over and over again. And so here we are, 2012, gay agenda, gay lifestyle, and I'm not a good dad and people don't deserve to be able to protect their families because of what they are, not who they are. So when you hear the words ""gay lifestyle"" and ""gay agenda"" in the future, I encourage you to do two things: One, remember the U.S. Constitution, and then two, if you wouldn't mind looking to your left, please. Look to your right. That person next to you is a brother, is a sister. And they should be treated with love and respect. Thank you."	我記得大概16歲的時候某個暑假我在家裡轉著電視台想在HBO找套電影看你們有哪位記得《蹺課天才》？那套電影很好看吧當馬修柏德瑞克出現時，我想「太棒，是《蹺課天才》，我要看這個」但那不是《蹺課天才》馬修柏德瑞克，請原諒我我知道你演過很多角色，但我只記得你在這部戲的角色，認定你是蹺課天才但你當時沒有做《蹺課天才》做的事你當時在做同志做的事 他演了一部《火炬三部曲》的電影《火炬三部曲》是改編自一個變裝皇后尋找愛情的舞台劇愛和尊重，就是整部電影的重點 我看著這部戲，覺得它正在講我我不是變裝皇后，我不想為任何人剷青我指的是同性戀者尋找愛和尊重、活著的意義於是我看下去，有一幕震撼得令我哭了至今已25年，我仍然記憶猶新主角艾諾向母親說的一句話當時他們正為其性取向和生活方式而爭執 「還有一件事，只是一件事你需要理解」「我自己學會縫紉、煮飯、修水電、建造傢俱」「甚至在需要時拍背來自我安慰」「所以我不用向別人求甚麼」「除了愛與尊重，我不會向別人求任何東西」「無法給我這兩樣東西的也在不配在我的生命有任何位置」 我對這幕仍然歷歷在目我當年16歲，含著淚水，當時仍未出櫃我看著這兩個人，俏課天才和另一個我沒看過的人為愛而奮鬥當我來到生命的這個階段我出櫃並接納自己事實上，我十分開心我很身為同志非常開心，而這應該很正常因為「基」這個字也有開心的意思我意識到很多人不像我「基」得這麼開心這裡「基」字當開心用不是被同性吸引的「基」事實上，關於我的性向和同志生活方式我聽說當時有許多的憎恨和憤怒也有很多的氣餒和恐懼 我試圖了解何謂「同志生活型態」生活型態、生活型態…這個詞不斷縈繞在我腦海我聽說過政治家說同志生活型態對文明的威脅更甚於恐怖主義這句話令我很害怕如果我是同志而且在做毀滅文明的事我要知道到底是甚麼事而且必須馬上停止（笑聲） 於是很努力的檢討自己的生活當中我發現一些令人很不安的事（笑聲）我要與你們分享我們都做的壞事從朝早開始我喝咖啡我不只是喝咖啡而且認識一樣喝咖啡的同志我會塞車很惡毒的塞車有時我在機場裡被迫排長龍 我環顧四周，然後很驚訝地發現：天啊，周圍都是同志我們一起在排長龍就只是為了上飛機我的天啊我的生活方式實在太邪惡了 我打掃，這不是我兒子房間的照片他房間更髒亂因為我有個15歲的兒子我一天到晚都在煮飯這裡有青少年的父母嗎?我們每天為這些人煮飯他們一晚就能吃二、三、四頓晚餐簡直是離譜這就是同志的生活型態 等我煮完飯、打掃完排隊、塞完車我和我的伴侶終於相聚決定要放鬆並狂野、瘋狂的玩樂（笑聲）我們通常一同在床上想看看《全美一叮》又叮走了誰但我們通常到第二朝才會知道誰還倖存因為我們實在太累等不到結果宣佈就睡著這就是超級邪惡的同志生活型態各位，趕快逃往異性戀的生活吧（掌聲） 當我的伴侶史提夫和我剛開始拍拖他告訴我一個關於企鵝的故事我初時不曉得他要講甚麼他當時有黠緊張，但他說當一隻企鵝想跟另一隻企鵝成為終生伴侶時他會送給她一顆小石頭，一塊最完美的小石然後史提夫伸手進口袋，拿出這個給我我看著它，心想，真是太好了 史提夫說：「我想成為你的終生伴侶」 所以每當我要做一些事而很緊張我就會戴起它譬如說，在TEDx演講的時候跟他分別很久時，我也會戴著它有時沒有甚麼原因，我都會戴著 這裡有多少人正在戀愛？誰有愛人？你也可能是同志（笑聲）因為我也在戀愛中這應該就是我說的同志生活型態（掌聲）你可能也要告訴你的伴侶如果他們在戀愛，他們也可能是同志這裡有沒有單身的？你也可能是同志！因為我認識一些同志是單身的同志生活型態實在太瘋狂它超級邪惡，而且永無休止無日無之的吞噬你 聽上來很白癡吧所以我很高興奧巴馬總統站起來說（掌聲）他支持（掌聲）他支持同志有平等的婚姻權利這在我們國家和全球的歷史上是美妙的一頁能夠聽見現任的總統說，夠了先對他自己，再對全世界這真是太棒了 雖然奧巴馬不久前公開表態但有些事仍然讓我很不安就是，很明顯的這是同志運動者的行動之一是同志白皮書的一部分我對此感到不安因為我已經公開出櫃有一段日子我去過各類集會和籌款活動我也寫過這個題材的書但我從未收到我的「同志白皮書」（笑聲）我是個準時的納稅人（笑聲）我拿著彩虹旗參加全部九個遊行但我還是沒見過「同志白皮書」我真的很沮喪，我覺得我被排擠好像我不夠同志般 但奇妙的事情終於發生我有一次去買東西我看到一本非法的官方「同志白皮書」 而我告訴我自己：一直以來，你都沒拿到的但當你來到人群前你要將這個消息告訴他們你要向他們宣揚「同志白皮書」一解所有人的疑惑到底甚麼是「同志白皮書」？這班同志想做甚麼？他們到底想要甚麼？ 各位，毋用耽擱我謹此呈獻一本-要小心，因為這很邪惡一本官方的「同志白皮書」（音樂）大家看，是「同志白皮書」（拍手）就在這裡感受到這本「同志白皮書」的氛圍嗎？ 你們可能心想，不是吧美國憲法是哪門子的同志白皮書美國憲法就是同志白皮書這些像我一樣的同志希望像一般市民一樣被對待因此他們將這個心願清楚的寫下來我看到時實在吃驚了這真的是同志白皮書嗎？為甚麼你們不直接稱同志白皮書為憲法這樣我就知道你在說甚麼我就不會一直這麼疑惑和難過但同志白皮書終於面世了趕快逃往異性戀生活吧 你知道嗎？在這些沒有陰影的州份男女同志、雙性戀或變性人可以被迫遷的原因是他們是男女同志、雙性戀或變性人房東就是用這個理由把他們趕走因為這些人沒有任何反歧視的保障你知道在這些沒有陰影的州份你會被開除，因為你是男女同志、雙性戀或變性人？這與你工作的品質你的年資，或者你有沒有體臭無關就因為你是男女同志、雙性戀或變性人這些問題都是同志白皮書中所反對的也就是美國憲法特別是這項修正案 「任何一州都不得制定或執行任何剝奪美國公民特權或豁免權的法律」 北卡羅萊納州，我在講你你並沒有遵守美國憲法這就是同志白皮書、公民平權不是特殊的權利而是早已寫下的權利由前人或你可以稱呼他們為菁英受過教育、穿著考究（笑聲）或有人說是打扮奇異（笑聲）不管怎樣，都是我們的開國先父，對吧？這些人，他們知道他們在做甚麼當他們在制定美國憲法時或是同志白皮書這些都是他們所反對的 這就是為甚麼我認為我必須把同志白皮書給你們看因為我想如果我搞笑一點你就不會感到威脅如果我一副事不關己的樣子你就不會覺得很嚴肅但當我們看這個地圖你看到在密西根州是可以合法的解僱男女同志、雙性戀或變性人也可以合法的迫遷只因他們是男女同志、雙性戀或變性人你就會了解這整段跟結婚平等權有關的演講並不是要剝奪其他人的權利而是還給人們他們本來就被賦予的權利我們只希望能根據這些權利生活這些我們早已接受並行使的權利有很多人生活在恐懼中怕失去工作所以他們不敢向任何人公開性向甚至在家中也不行這並不只存在北卡羅萊那州在那些白色的州裡，這都是合法的 讓我炫耀一下我已婚，有個15歲的兒子他的學分是4.0他在大學創立一個新學會：政策辯論他是個正在崛起的田徑新秀中學時參加了所有比賽和活動他有做志工吃飯前會禱告我常想，作為他的父親他大部分時間跟我住我應該多少都有促成他的成就我覺得他是個好男孩我認為他是令人尊敬的年輕人這證明我是個好父親但假設我今天去密西根州試著從孤兒院認養一個年輕人我會被認定不合格只為了一個原因我是同性戀者就算我已經證明我有能力只要密西根州說一句我就沒有任何認養的資格但這不只是關於我這是有關其他更多的密西根人、美國公民他們不了解為甚麼他們的性向比他們的人格還要重要 這樣的故事一再上演在我們國家歷史中不斷重演以前曾有一段時間黑人沒有平等的公民權女人也曾經如此，她們不能投票在美國殘障人士法案通過前曾經有段時間如果你是身心障礙者你的老闆可以解僱你我們不斷重覆這樣的事 如今已是2012年同志白皮書同志生活型態、我不是個好爸爸某些人不配也不能保護我們的家庭全因為他們的性向，而非人格因此以後當你聽見「同志生活型態」和「同志白皮書」我鼓勵你做兩件事第一，記住美國憲法第二是…如果你不介意你左邊的人請你也看看右邊的人你隔壁的這個人是兄弟姊妹他們應該得到愛和尊重謝謝
