Talk	en	zh-tw
magda_sayeg_how_yarn_bombing_grew_into_a_worldwide_movement	"I'm a textile artist most widely known for starting the yarn bombing movement. Yarn bombing is when you take knitted or crocheted material out into the urban environment, graffiti-style — or, more specifically, without permission and unsanctioned. But when I started this over 10 years ago, I didn't have a word for it, I didn't have any ambitious notions about it, I had no visions of grandeur. All I wanted to see was something warm and fuzzy and human-like on the cold, steel, gray facade that I looked at everyday. So I wrapped the door handle. I call this the Alpha Piece. Little did I know that this tiny piece would change the course of my life. So clearly the reaction was interesting. It intrigued me and I thought, ""What else could I do?"" Could I do something in the public domain that would get the same reaction? So I wrapped the stop sign pole near my house. The reaction was wild. People would park their cars and get out of their cars and stare at it, and scratch their heads and stare at it, and take pictures of it and take pictures next to it, and all of that was really exciting to me and I wanted to do every stop sign pole in the neighborhood. And the more that I did, the stronger the reaction. So at this point I'm smitten. I'm hooked. This was all seductive. I found my new passion and the urban environment was my playground. So this is some of my early work. I was very curious about this idea of enhancing the ordinary, the mundane, even the ugly, and not taking away its identity or its functionality but just giving it a well-tailored suit out of knitting. And this was fun for me. It was really fun to take inanimate objects and have them come to life. So ... I think we all see the humor in this, but — (Laughter) I was at a point where I wanted to take it seriously. I wanted to analyze it. I wanted to know why I was letting this take over my life, why I was passionate about it, why were other people reacting so strongly to it. And I realized something. We all live in this fast-paced, digital world, but we still crave and desire something that's relatable. I think we've all become desensitized by our overdeveloped cities that we live in, and billboards and advertisements, and giant parking lots, and we don't even complain about that stuff anymore. So when you stumble upon a stop sign pole that's wrapped in knitting and it seems so out of place and then gradually — weirdly — you find a connection to it, that is the moment. That is the moment I love and that is the moment I love to share with others. So at this point, my curiosity grew. It went from the fire hydrants and the stop sign poles to what else can I do with this material. Can I do something big and large-scale and insurmountable? So that's when the bus happened. This was a real game changer for me. I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for this one. At this point, people were recognizing my work but there wasn't much out there that was wrapped in knitting that was large-scale, and this definitely was the first city bus to be wrapped in knitting. So at this point, I'm experiencing, or I'm witnessing something interesting. I may have started yarn bombing but I certainly don't own it anymore. It had reached global status. People from all over the world were doing this. And I know this because I would travel to certain parts of the world that I'd never been to, and I'd stumble upon a stop sign pole and I knew I didn't wrap it. So as I pursued my own goals with my art — this is a lot of my recent work — so was yarn bombing. Yarn bombing was also growing. And that experience showed me the hidden power of this craft and showed me that there was this common language I had with the rest of the world. It was through this granny hobby — this unassuming hobby — that I found commonality with people that I never thought I'd have a connection with. So as I tell my story today, I'd also like to convey to you that hidden power can be found in the most unassuming places, and we all possess skills that are just waiting to be discovered. If you think about our hands, these tools that are connected to us, and what they're capable of doing — building houses and furniture, and painting giant murals — and most of the time we hold a controller or a cell phone. And I'm totally guilty of this as well. But if you think about it, what would happen if you put those things down? What would you make? What would you create with your own hands? A lot of people think that I am a master knitter but I actually couldn't knit a sweater to save my life. But I did something interesting with knitting that had never been done before. I also wasn't ""supposed to be"" an artist in the sense that I wasn't formally trained to do this — I'm a math major actually. So I didn't think this was in the cards for me, but I also know that I didn't stumble upon this. And when this happened to me, I held on tight, I fought for it and I'm proud to say that I am a working artist today. So as we ponder the future, know that your future might not be so seamless. And one day, you might be as bored as I was and knit a door handle to change your world forever. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是紡織藝術家，開創了針織塗鴉而廣為人知。針織塗鴉是把針織或鉤針的材料以塗鴉的方式帶入城市環境裡。或是，更準確地說沒有得到容許和批准。 但是在10年前，我開始這個活動的時候，我沒有給它命名，我沒有什麼野心的主張，我沒有什麼宏偉的遠見。我只是想要看到一些溫暖、毛茸茸、人性化的東西纏綣每天看起來冷冰、鋼筋、灰濛濛的那些表面。 所以我裹起了門的把手。將它命名為始初的作品。但從沒有想過，這樣的一件小物改寫了我的人生。 這回事引起的回應非常有趣。我很好奇，心想：「我還能做些什麼呢？」要是我在公共場所這樣做，會引起同樣的回應嗎？所以我裹起了住家附近的一支停車標示杆。這引發了狂熱的回應。大家會把車子停好，走下車來，盯著這杆，搔著自己的頭，盯著這杆，拍下這杆並且人杆合照，這些都讓我感到很興奮，所以我意圖把附近每一支停車標示杆都裹起來。我裹得越多，人們的反應就越強烈。 因此在這刻，我傾倒了。好過癮喲。這一切都無比吸引我。我有了新的愛好，整個城市環境就是我的遊樂場。 這些是我早期的作品。我對這個主意很好奇：就是去美化日常中平凡無奇，甚至是醜陋的事物，在保留其自身特徵或是功能的情況下，給它量身編織一件優質的外衣。這對我來說很有趣。能夠把那些老氣橫秋的物品轉化成為生氣盎然，多有趣。 所以呢...我想大家都看出了其中的幽默，但是... （笑聲） 我當時希望更認真推展針織塗鴉，我希望去分析針織塗鴉這行為。我想了解自己為什麼容許針織塗鴉主宰我的生活、為什麼我會這樣沉醉、為什麼人們會有這樣熱切的回應。我從中頓悟了一些事。我們都生活在這個瞬息萬變的數位世界，但是我們仍然熱中並渴望一些聯繫和聯結。 我想我們都住在過度發展的都市裡，環境讓我們都變得麻木，過於習慣那些大型告示板、廣告牌、和大型停車場，麻木得都已經不再抱怨了。所以當你無意間遇上一支裹上了針織物的停車標示杆時，看起來好不搭嘎，但是慢慢地、奇怪地，你會找到與它的關連，就是那瞬間。那是我愛的瞬間那是我愛和其他人一起分享的瞬間。 那個時候，我的好奇愈來愈強。從消防栓和停車標示杆到我如何能更善用針織物料，然後再進一步做大規模、難以駕馭的物品嗎？ 所以，這輛公車就誕生了。這是我的轉捩點。我內心深處對這公車總會有所偏愛。 那個時候，我的作品已經廣為人知，但這樣大規模、用針織裹起來的作品少之又少。這肯定是第一輛用針織裹起來的城市公車。 那時候，我開始體會、看到了一些有趣的現象。我大概開創了針織塗鴉是沒錯，但是很明顯，它已經不只屬於我了。針織塗鴉有著自己全球性的地位。世界各地的人都在針織塗鴉。我知道有這個情況是因為我到某些從未去過的地方旅行時，我會偶遇某支停車標示杆，而我知道，那並不是我裹的。 所以，我用藝術去實踐自己的目標──這很多是我近期的作品──針織塗鴉也跟我一樣。針織塗鴉仍然在成長。這份體驗讓我發現手工藝的潛在力量，也讓我知道我和世界有一種共通語言。透過這項奶奶般的手工藝興趣──一項平淡樸實的興趣──成為了本來和我毫不相干的人之間的一份聯繫。 今天我訴說著自己的故事，借此向你們傳達一個訊息：潛在的力量往往出現在最平凡不過的地方，我們同樣也潛藏有待發掘的本領。 想想我們的雙手，這些與我們相連的工具，雙手能夠做到的事──建構房屋和家具、繪製巨型的壁畫──但在絕大部分的時間，我們手握的是遙控器或手機，我自己也是一樣。但你們再想一想，把遙控器和手機放下來，會怎麼樣呢？你會做什麼？你會用雙手創造什麼？ 很多人以為我是編織大師，但事實上，我連織件毛衣為自己禦寒都不會。但是我用針織做了滿有趣的事情，而這是之前沒有人做過的。 我本來也「不應該是」藝術家，因為我沒有受過正統的藝術訓練──事實上，我主修的是數學。所以我從沒料到會自己會做這樣的事，但我也沒有因此而絆倒。當發生在我身上的的時候，我就好好把握，努力不懈，並且可以很驕傲地說我現在是專職的藝術家。 當我們在思量未來的時候，要明白未來不一定順遂。某一天，你也許會和我一樣悶壞了，裹織起一個門把，從此改寫了你們的人生。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
