Talk	en	zh-tw
malcolm_gladwell_the_unheard_story_of_david_and_goliath	"So I wanted to tell a story that really obsessed me when I was writing my new book, and it's a story of something that happened 3,000 years ago, when the Kingdom of Israel was in its infancy. And it takes place in an area called the Shephelah in what is now Israel. And the reason the story obsessed me is that I thought I understood it, and then I went back over it and I realized that I didn't understand it at all. Ancient Palestine had a — along its eastern border, there's a mountain range. Still same is true of Israel today. And in the mountain range are all of the ancient cities of that region, so Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Hebron. And then there's a coastal plain along the Mediterranean, where Tel Aviv is now. And connecting the mountain range with the coastal plain is an area called the Shephelah, which is a series of valleys and ridges that run east to west, and you can follow the Shephelah, go through the Shephelah to get from the coastal plain to the mountains. And the Shephelah, if you've been to Israel, you'll know it's just about the most beautiful part of Israel. It's gorgeous, with forests of oak and wheat fields and vineyards. But more importantly, though, in the history of that region, it's served, it's had a real strategic function, and that is, it is the means by which hostile armies on the coastal plain find their way, get up into the mountains and threaten those living in the mountains. And 3,000 years ago, that's exactly what happens. The Philistines, who are the biggest of enemies of the Kingdom of Israel, are living in the coastal plain. They're originally from Crete. They're a seafaring people. And they may start to make their way through one of the valleys of the Shephelah up into the mountains, because what they want to do is occupy the highland area right by Bethlehem and split the Kingdom of Israel in two. And the Kingdom of Israel, which is headed by King Saul, obviously catches wind of this, and Saul brings his army down from the mountains and he confronts the Philistines in the Valley of Elah, one of the most beautiful of the valleys of the Shephelah. And the Israelites dig in along the northern ridge, and the Philistines dig in along the southern ridge, and the two armies just sit there for weeks and stare at each other, because they're deadlocked. Neither can attack the other, because to attack the other side you've got to come down the mountain into the valley and then up the other side, and you're completely exposed. So finally, to break the deadlock, the Philistines send their mightiest warrior down into the valley floor, and he calls out and he says to the Israelites, ""Send your mightiest warrior down, and we'll have this out, just the two of us."" This was a tradition in ancient warfare called single combat. It was a way of settling disputes without incurring the bloodshed of a major battle. And the Philistine who is sent down, their mighty warrior, is a giant. He's 6 foot 9. He's outfitted head to toe in this glittering bronze armor, and he's got a sword and he's got a javelin and he's got his spear. He is absolutely terrifying. And he's so terrifying that none of the Israelite soldiers want to fight him. It's a death wish, right? There's no way they think they can take him. And finally the only person who will come forward is this young shepherd boy, and he goes up to Saul and he says, ""I'll fight him."" And Saul says, ""You can't fight him. That's ridiculous. You're this kid. This is this mighty warrior."" But the shepherd is adamant. He says, ""No, no, no, you don't understand, I have been defending my flock against lions and wolves for years. I think I can do it."" And Saul has no choice. He's got no one else who's come forward. So he says, ""All right."" And then he turns to the kid, and he says, ""But you've got to wear this armor. You can't go as you are."" So he tries to give the shepherd his armor, and the shepherd says, ""No."" He says, ""I can't wear this stuff."" The Biblical verse is, ""I cannot wear this for I have not proved it,"" meaning, ""I've never worn armor before. You've got to be crazy."" So he reaches down instead on the ground and picks up five stones and puts them in his shepherd's bag and starts to walk down the mountainside to meet the giant. And the giant sees this figure approaching, and calls out, ""Come to me so I can feed your flesh to the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field."" He issues this kind of taunt towards this person coming to fight him. And the shepherd draws closer and closer, and the giant sees that he's carrying a staff. That's all he's carrying. Instead of a weapon, just this shepherd's staff, and he says — he's insulted — ""Am I a dog that you would come to me with sticks?"" And the shepherd boy takes one of his stones out of his pocket, puts it in his sling and rolls it around and lets it fly and it hits the giant right between the eyes — right here, in his most vulnerable spot — and he falls down either dead or unconscious, and the shepherd boy runs up and takes his sword and cuts off his head, and the Philistines see this and they turn and they just run. And of course, the name of the giant is Goliath and the name of the shepherd boy is David, and the reason that story has obsessed me over the course of writing my book is that everything I thought I knew about that story turned out to be wrong. So David, in that story, is supposed to be the underdog, right? In fact, that term, David and Goliath, has entered our language as a metaphor for improbable victories by some weak party over someone far stronger. Now why do we call David an underdog? Well, we call him an underdog because he's a kid, a little kid, and Goliath is this big, strong giant. We also call him an underdog because Goliath is an experienced warrior, and David is just a shepherd. But most importantly, we call him an underdog because all he has is — it's that Goliath is outfitted with all of this modern weaponry, this glittering coat of armor and a sword and a javelin and a spear, and all David has is this sling. Well, let's start there with the phrase ""All David has is this sling,"" because that's the first mistake that we make. In ancient warfare, there are three kinds of warriors. There's cavalry, men on horseback and with chariots. There's heavy infantry, which are foot soldiers, armed foot soldiers with swords and shields and some kind of armor. And there's artillery, and artillery are archers, but, more importantly, slingers. And a slinger is someone who has a leather pouch with two long cords attached to it, and they put a projectile, either a rock or a lead ball, inside the pouch, and they whirl it around like this and they let one of the cords go, and the effect is to send the projectile forward towards its target. That's what David has, and it's important to understand that that sling is not a slingshot. It's not this, right? It's not a child's toy. It's in fact an incredibly devastating weapon. When David rolls it around like this, he's turning the sling around probably at six or seven revolutions per second, and that means that when the rock is released, it's going forward really fast, probably 35 meters per second. That's substantially faster than a baseball thrown by even the finest of baseball pitchers. More than that, the stones in the Valley of Elah were not normal rocks. They were barium sulphate, which are rocks twice the density of normal stones. If you do the calculations on the ballistics, on the stopping power of the rock fired from David's sling, it's roughly equal to the stopping power of a [.45 caliber] handgun. This is an incredibly devastating weapon. Accuracy, we know from historical records that slingers — experienced slingers could hit and maim or even kill a target at distances of up to 200 yards. From medieval tapestries, we know that slingers were capable of hitting birds in flight. They were incredibly accurate. When David lines up — and he's not 200 yards away from Goliath, he's quite close to Goliath — when he lines up and fires that thing at Goliath, he has every intention and every expectation of being able to hit Goliath at his most vulnerable spot between his eyes. If you go back over the history of ancient warfare, you will find time and time again that slingers were the decisive factor against infantry in one kind of battle or another. So what's Goliath? He's heavy infantry, and his expectation when he challenges the Israelites to a duel is that he's going to be fighting another heavy infantryman. When he says, ""Come to me that I might feed your flesh to the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field,"" the key phrase is ""Come to me."" Come up to me because we're going to fight, hand to hand, like this. Saul has the same expectation. David says, ""I want to fight Goliath,"" and Saul tries to give him his armor, because Saul is thinking, ""Oh, when you say 'fight Goliath,' you mean 'fight him in hand-to-hand combat,' infantry on infantry."" But David has absolutely no expectation. He's not going to fight him that way. Why would he? He's a shepherd. He's spent his entire career using a sling to defend his flock against lions and wolves. That's where his strength lies. So here he is, this shepherd, experienced in the use of a devastating weapon, up against this lumbering giant weighed down by a hundred pounds of armor and these incredibly heavy weapons that are useful only in short-range combat. Goliath is a sitting duck. He doesn't have a chance. So why do we keep calling David an underdog, and why do we keep referring to his victory as improbable? There's a second piece of this that's important. It's not just that we misunderstand David and his choice of weaponry. It's also that we profoundly misunderstand Goliath. Goliath is not what he seems to be. There's all kinds of hints of this in the Biblical text, things that are in retrospect quite puzzling and don't square with his image as this mighty warrior. So to begin with, the Bible says that Goliath is led onto the valley floor by an attendant. Now that is weird, right? Here is this mighty warrior challenging the Israelites to one-on-one combat. Why is he being led by the hand by some young boy, presumably, to the point of combat? Secondly, the Bible story makes special note of how slowly Goliath moves, another odd thing to say when you're describing the mightiest warrior known to man at that point. And then there's this whole weird thing about how long it takes Goliath to react to the sight of David. So David's coming down the mountain, and he's clearly not preparing for hand-to-hand combat. There is nothing about him that says, ""I am about to fight you like this."" He's not even carrying a sword. Why does Goliath not react to that? It's as if he's oblivious to what's going on that day. And then there's that strange comment he makes to David: ""Am I a dog that you should come to me with sticks?"" Sticks? David only has one stick. Well, it turns out that there's been a great deal of speculation within the medical community over the years about whether there is something fundamentally wrong with Goliath, an attempt to make sense of all of those apparent anomalies. There have been many articles written. The first one was in 1960 in the Indiana Medical Journal, and it started a chain of speculation that starts with an explanation for Goliath's height. So Goliath is head and shoulders above all of his peers in that era, and usually when someone is that far out of the norm, there's an explanation for it. So the most common form of giantism is a condition called acromegaly, and acromegaly is caused by a benign tumor on your pituitary gland that causes an overproduction of human growth hormone. And throughout history, many of the most famous giants have all had acromegaly. So the tallest person of all time was a guy named Robert Wadlow who was still growing when he died at the age of 24 and he was 8 foot 11. He had acromegaly. Do you remember the wrestler André the Giant? Famous. He had acromegaly. There's even speculation that Abraham Lincoln had acromegaly. Anyone who's unusually tall, that's the first explanation we come up with. And acromegaly has a very distinct set of side effects associated with it, principally having to do with vision. The pituitary tumor, as it grows, often starts to compress the visual nerves in your brain, with the result that people with acromegaly have either double vision or they are profoundly nearsighted. So when people have started to speculate about what might have been wrong with Goliath, they've said, ""Wait a minute, he looks and sounds an awful lot like someone who has acromegaly."" And that would also explain so much of what was strange about his behavior that day. Why does he move so slowly and have to be escorted down into the valley floor by an attendant? Because he can't make his way on his own. Why is he so strangely oblivious to David that he doesn't understand that David's not going to fight him until the very last moment? Because he can't see him. When he says, ""Come to me that I might feed your flesh to the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the field,"" the phrase ""come to me"" is a hint also of his vulnerability. Come to me because I can't see you. And then there's, ""Am I a dog that you should come to me with sticks?"" He sees two sticks when David has only one. So the Israelites up on the mountain ridge looking down on him thought he was this extraordinarily powerful foe. What they didn't understand was that the very thing that was the source of his apparent strength was also the source of his greatest weakness. And there is, I think, in that, a very important lesson for all of us. Giants are not as strong and powerful as they seem. And sometimes the shepherd boy has a sling in his pocket. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想告訴大家一個故事，在寫我新書的時候，這個故事一直讓我很疑惑，這個故事發生在距今 3000 年前，當時以色列王國還在建國初期。故事發生在一個叫示非拉的地方，它位於今天的以色列境內。這故事令我困擾的原因是我之前自以為了解它，可是後來再讀的時候，就發覺自己一點也不了解。 古巴勒斯坦有一條──沿著它東面的國界有一條山脈，（這條山脈）仍在今天的以色列境內。在這一條山脈上有許多古城市，像是耶路撒冷、伯利恆、希伯崙。那裡也有一片海岸平原沿著地中海，即現在的特拉維夫。連接山脈與海岸平原的是一個叫做示非拉的地方，其由自東向西的一系列的山谷與山脊組成，你可以沿著或穿越示非拉從海岸平原進入山區。如果你去過以色列，你就知道示拉非可能是以色列境內最美麗的地方。風景優美，有橡樹林、麥田和葡萄園。 但更重要的是，在此地區的歷史上，示拉非具有真正的戰略功能，也就是說，示拉非是位於海岸平原的敵軍通往山區而入侵山區居民的必經路。3000 年前，也確實如此，非利士人是以色列的頭號敵人，他們就住在海岸平原。他們最初是來自克里特島的航海民族，然後可能漸漸地從示非拉的其中一個山谷進入山區，因為他們想占據伯利恆旁的高地，將以色列一分為二。當時的以色列王國的君主是掃羅王，他顯然有聽到風聲，於是他領軍下山，在以拉谷迎戰非利士人。以拉谷是示非拉最美麗的山谷之一。以色列人沿著山脈北脊挖掘戰壕，而非利士人則沿著山脈的南脊挖掘戰壕，然後兩軍就這樣對峙數週，雙方軍隊相互叫陣， 僵持不下，雙方都不敢發動攻勢，因為要攻擊對方就必須下山進入山谷，然後再進攻上山，這會使軍隊完全暴露在敵方的火力下。 所以最後為了打破僵局，非利士人派出最勇猛的戰士走下山谷叫陣，他對以色列人說：「派你們最勇猛的戰士下來，我們兩人來單挑定勝負。」 這是古時候戰爭的一個傳統，稱為單挑。是解決紛爭的方法之一，可避免大規模的流血戰爭。那個被派下山的非利士戰士，是一位驍勇善戰的戰士， 也是一位巨人，他的身高 6 英呎 9 吋。從頭到腳穿戴閃閃發亮的銅盔甲，他帶了一把劍、一枝標槍和一隻長矛， 看起來非常嚇人。因為他看起來太可怕了，沒有一個以色列戰士敢上前應戰。簡直是去送死，對不對？他們覺得一定打不贏。 最後挺身而出的是個年輕的牧童，他走去對掃羅王說：「我來跟他打。」 掃羅王說：「你打不過他的。這太荒謬了。你只不過是個小鬼， 而他是位勇猛的戰士。」 但是牧童非常堅決，他說：「不，不，不，你不明白， 多年來我一直在保護我的羊群，免受獅子野狼襲擊。 我有自信可以應付。」 掃羅王沒辦法， 因為沒有其他人敢出來應戰。於是他說：「好。」然後他對牧童說：「你不能就這樣前去對陣，一定要穿上盔甲。」 於是他把自己的盔甲給牧童，但牧童說：「不用了。我沒辦法穿這盔甲。」聖經上的原話是「我不能穿這盔甲， 因為我沒試過。」意思是，「我從沒穿過這東西。你瘋了嗎要我穿這個？」 牧童從地上撿起五塊石頭放進他的牧羊袋，然後下山去迎戰巨人。這巨人看見有人向他走近，便大叫：「給我過來，我要把你的肉拿去餵給飛禽走獸。」他不斷這樣辱罵這個前來與他應戰的人。牧童越走越近，巨人看到他帶了一枝牧羊人的手杖。他的裝備就只有這樣。他沒有帶武器， 只有他的牧羊人手杖，巨人說——他覺得他被侮辱了——「你帶牧羊杖到這裡，你當我是狗嗎？」 牧童從袋裡拿出了一塊石頭放在投石器上，甩動投石器，然後將石頭拋射了出去，石頭正中巨人兩眼之間的地方——這裡是他最脆弱的地方——他倒了下來， 不是死了， 就是被打昏了，牧童接著跑上前去， 抽出巨人的劍砍下了巨人的頭，非利士人見狀， 掉頭就跑。 這位巨人叫做歌利亞，牧童就是大衞，在寫這本書的時候，這故事一直讓我揮之不去，原因是， 原本我以為我知道這則故事，但後來發現，原來我錯了。 故事中的大衞，應該是處於劣勢，對吧？事實上， 大衞與歌利亞的典故，現在變成是一種比喻，用來形容，弱小的一方難以置信地戰勝了比自己強大許多對手。為何我們稱大衞是處於弱勢的人?我們會說他處於劣勢，一個原因是，他是個小孩，而歌利亞是高大威猛的巨人。我們會說他處於劣勢另一個原因是，歌利亞是個身經百戰的戰士，而大衞只不過是個牧童。我們會說他處於劣勢，最重要的原因是，他的裝備簡陋——歌利亞全身配戴最新的兵器，一身閃閃發光的盔甲，有一把劍、一支槍和一支矛，而大衞只有一把投石器。 我們先想想看這句話，「大衞只有一把投石器，」因為這是我們犯的第一個錯誤。在古代戰場上，有三種兵種。有一種叫騎兵， 他們騎在馬上或站在戰車上；再來是重裝步兵， 他們是步兵的一種，是一種配有劍和盾已經穿戴某種盔甲的步兵。還有砲兵，砲兵其實就是弓箭手，但更重要的是，投石兵。投石兵有一個皮袋，皮袋繫有兩條長繩索，他們把拋射物，石塊或鉛球，放進皮袋， 然後他們會像這樣甩動皮袋，放掉其中一條繩索，投射物就拋出去攻擊目標。大衞就是拿這種武器，重點是我們要知道那是投石器，不是彈弓。不是這個東西，對吧？不是小孩的玩具。事實上， 它是一種極具殺傷力的武器。大衞這樣甩動它的時候，他在轉動投石器的速率大概是每秒六或七轉，這代表當石頭被拋射出去的時候，前行的速度相當快，可能達到每秒 35 公尺。速度遠比最好的棒球投手所投出的球要快。此外，以拉谷的石頭不是一般的石頭。 這種石頭由硫化鋇構成，密度比一般石頭高兩倍。如果從彈道學的角度來計算，大衞拋射出來的石頭，其制止力大概相當於一把點 45 口徑手槍的制止力。所以，這石頭是一種極具殺傷力的武器。它的精準度， 從歷史記錄我們可以知道，經驗豐富的投石兵可以在 200 碼之內擊中、致殘、甚至殺死目標。從中世紀的掛毯織錦畫來看，我們知道投石兵能擊中空中的飛鳥。他們的拋射非常精準。當大衞準備好的時候， 他距離歌利亞不會超過 200 碼，他非常靠近歌利亞——他準備好要向歌利亞射出石頭的時侯，他知道自己一定能夠擊中歌利亞最脆弱的部位，他的兩眼之間。如果你重新檢視古代的戰爭史，你會一再發現在許多戰爭中，投石兵是對抗步兵的決定性要素。 而歌利亞是什麼兵種？他是重裝步兵，當他向以色列軍要求單挑的時候，他心裡預期會與另一名重裝步兵對上。當他說：「給我過來，我要把你的肉拿去餵飛鳥和野獸，」他的關鍵詞是「給我過來。」來吧， 我們來大戰一場，像這樣徒手格鬥。掃羅王預計的也是這樣。當大衞說：「我來和歌利亞對決」時，掃羅試圖給大衛他的盔甲，因為掃羅王在想：「你說要與歌利亞作戰，你是指要與他徒手格鬥，那種步兵與步兵的對決。」 然而大衞絕對沒有這種想法。他不打算要和歌利亞那樣對決。為什麼要呢？他只是個牧童，他一生的時間都在用投石器保護羊群，免受獅子野狼的襲擊。他的長處就在於此。所以，這個善於使用極有傷力武器的牧童，要去對付的，是這個動作遲緩，身披重達一百磅厚重盔甲的巨人，而巨人所持的沉重武器只適合於近距離戰鬥。結果，歌利亞只能坐以待斃，根本沒有攻擊的機會。那為什麼我們還一直說大衞處於弱勢?還一直覺得他的勝利是難以置信的? 另外還有很重要的一點。我們不但低估了大衞，和他選擇的武器，我們也嚴重地高估了歌利亞。歌利亞其實沒有看起來的那麼可怕。聖經當中對此有許多暗示，這些暗示回想起來會讓人覺得很疑惑，因為這些描述並不符合威猛戰士的形象。首先，聖經上說歌利亞是由一名隨從引導著下到山谷。這一點很奇怪，對不對?他是一位驍勇善戰的戰士，要向以色列王國軍要求一對一的對決，為什麼還要由大概只是個小男孩的隨從，牽著下山，帶著走到決鬥的地點？其次，聖經有特別提到歌利亞的動作有多緩慢，在講一位當時最知名勇猛的戰士時用這種描述，是另一個讓人奇怪的地方。而且，還有怪異的事，就是歌利亞要花多久的時間才對大衛的出現做出反應。大衛從山上下來時，一看就知道他沒有準備要徒手對決。大衛的裝備和武器都沒有在說：「我準備要和你徒手單打。」他甚至連劍都沒帶。為何歌利亞沒有對此作出反應?好像他無視當時的情況一樣。然後他對大衞說了句奇怪的話：「你帶著幾隻牧羊杖來，你當我是狗嗎？」幾支牧羊杖？大衞只有一支牧羊杖。 結果這幾年來在醫學界有許多猜測，懷疑是不是有些關於歌利亞的資訊從一開始就有問題，大家都在企圖解釋所有這些明顯的怪異之處。許多文獻都提到。第一篇文獻 1960 年發表於印第安拿州醫學期刊，這篇文獻引起了一連串的猜測。這些猜測始於對歌利亞身高的解釋。歌利亞遠比當時其他同年紀的人高出許多，通常有人身高比一般人高出那麼多的時候，都是有原因的。而巨人症就是最常見的原因，這是一種叫肢端肥大症的疾病，肢端肥大症是由腦下垂體上的良性腫瘤所引起，腫瘤導致人體製造過多生長激素。歷史上很多著名的巨人都有肢端肥大症。史上身高最高的人叫羅勃雅德洛，他 24 歲死時，還在繼續長高，而當時他身高已達 8 英呎 11 吋。他就患有肢端肥大症。你記得摔角手巨人安德烈嗎?他很有名。 他也患有肢端肥大症。甚至有人懷疑林肯也患有肢端肥大症。對於任何異常高的人，我們都會先想到這個原因。肢端肥大症的伴隨症非常獨特，主要是對視力的影響。腦下垂體腫瘤在生長時，通常會開始壓迫腦內的視神經，這使得患有肢端肥大症的人不是出現複視就是嚴重近視。 因此當有人開始推測歌利亞可能患有什麼疾病的時候，他們說：「等等，他不管是看起來還是聽起來都像極了肢端肥大症患者。」這可以充分解釋當時他的行為為何如此怪異。為什麼他行動遲緩，走下山谷也需要侍從護送？因為他無法像正常人一樣行動。為什麼他如此奇怪地無視大衛以至於到最後一刻，都不知道大衛不會跟他徒手單打？因為他看不見他。當他說：「給我過來，我要把你的肉拿去餵給飛禽走獸的時候，」這句「給我過來」也暗示出他的弱點。叫你過來是因為我看不到你。還有，「你帶牧羊杖到這裡，你當我是狗嗎？」大衞明明只拿了一根牧羊杖，他卻看到兩根。 所以那些在山脊上的以色列軍向下看他， 覺得他是無比勇猛的敵人。他們不知道的是，他強大外表的來源也正是他最大弱點的來源。 我覺得這則故事給了我們一個非常重要的啟示。巨人並不一定真如他們的外表一樣強而有力。而有時候，牧童的口袋裡藏有一把投石器。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
