Talk	en	zh-tw
malte_spitz_your_phone_company_is_watching	"Hi. This is my mobile phone. A mobile phone can change your life, and a mobile phone gives you individual freedom. With a mobile phone, you can shoot a crime against humanity in Syria. With a mobile phone, you can tweet a message and start a protest in Egypt. And with a mobile phone, you can record a song, load it up to SoundCloud and become famous. All this is possible with your mobile phone. I'm a child of 1984, and I live in the city of Berlin. Let's go back to that time, to this city. Here you can see how hundreds of thousands of people stood up and protested for change. This is autumn 1989, and imagine that all those people standing up and protesting for change had a mobile phone in their pocket. Who in the room has a mobile phone with you? Hold it up. Hold your phones up, hold your phones up! Hold it up. An Android, a Blackberry, wow. That's a lot. Almost everybody today has a mobile phone. But today I will talk about me and my mobile phone, and how it changed my life. And I will talk about this. These are 35,830 lines of information. Raw data. And why are these informations there? Because in the summer of 2006, the E.U. Commission tabled a directive. This directive [is] called Data Retention Directive. This directive says that each phone company in Europe, each Internet service company all over Europe, has to store a wide range of information about the users. Who calls whom? Who sends whom an email? Who sends whom a text message? And if you use your mobile phone, where you are. All this information is stored for at least six months, up to two years by your phone company or your Internet service provider. And all over Europe, people stood up and said, ""We don't want this."" They said, we don't want this data retention. We want self-determination in the digital age, and we don't want that phone companies and Internet companies have to store all this information about us. They were lawyers, journalists, priests, they all said: ""We don't want this."" And here you can see, like 10 thousands of people went out on the streets of Berlin and said, ""Freedom, not fear."" And some even said, this would be Stasi 2.0. Stasi was the secret police in East Germany. And I also ask myself, does it really work? Can they really store all this information about us? Every time I use my mobile phone? So I asked my phone company, Deutsche Telekom, which was at that time the largest phone company in Germany, and I asked them, please, send me all the information you have stored about me. And I asked them once, and I asked them again, and I got no real answer. It was only blah blah answers. But then I said, I want to have this information, because this is my life you are protocoling. So I decided to start a lawsuit against them, because I wanted to have this information. But Deutsche Telekom said, no, we will not give you this information. So at the end, I had a settlement with them. I'll put down the lawsuit and they will send me all the information I ask for. Because in the mean time, the German Constitutional Court ruled that the implementation of this E.U. directive into German law was unconstitutional. So I got this ugly brown envelope with a C.D. inside. And on the C.D., this was on. Thirty-five thousand eight hundred thirty lines of information. At first I saw it, and I said, okay, it's a huge file. Okay. But then after a while I realized, this is my life. This is six months of my life, into this file. So I was a little bit skeptical, what should I do with it? Because you can see where I am, where I sleep at night, what I am doing. But then I said, I want to go out with this information. I want to make them public. Because I want to show the people what does data retention mean. So together with Zeit Online and Open Data City, I did this. This is a visualization of six months of my life. You can zoom in and zoom out, you can wind back and fast forward. You can see every step I take. And you can even see how I go from Frankfurt by train to Cologne, and how often I call in between. All this is possible with this information. That's a little bit scary. But it is not only about me. It's about all of us. First, it's only like, I call my wife and she calls me, and we talk to each other a couple of times. And then there are some friends calling me, and they call each other. And after a while you are calling you, and you are calling you, and you have this great communication network. But you can see how your people are communicating with each other, what times they call each other, when they go to bed. You can see all of this. You can see the hubs, like who are the leaders in the group. If you have access to this information, you can see what your society is doing. If you have access to this information, you can control your society. This is a blueprint for countries like China and Iran. This is a blueprint how to survey your society, because you know who talks to whom, who sends whom an email, all this is possible if you have access to this information. And this information is stored for at least six months in Europe, up to two years. Like I said at the beginning, imagine that all those people on the streets of Berlin in autumn of 1989 had a mobile phone in their pocket. And the Stasi would have known who took part at this protest, and if the Stasi would have known who are the leaders behind it, this may never have happened. The fall of the Berlin Wall would maybe not [have been] there. And in the aftermath, also not the fall of the Iron Curtain. Because today, state agencies and companies want to store as much information as they can get about us, online and offline. They want to have the possibility to track our lives, and they want to store them for all time. But self-determination and living in the digital age is no contradiction. But you have to fight for your self-determination today. You have to fight for it every day. So, when you go home, tell your friends that privacy is a value of the 21st century, and it's not outdated. When you go home, tell your representative only because companies and state agencies have the possibility to store certain information, they don't have to do it. And if you don't believe me, ask your phone company what information they store about you. So, in the future, every time you use your mobile phone, let it be a reminder to you that you have to fight for self-determination in the digital age. Thank you. (Applause)"	"嗨！這是我的行動手機。行動手機可以改變你的生命，讓你得到個人的自由。利用行動手機，你可以在敘利亞拍下違反人道的行為。利用行動手機，你可以推出一則信息，在埃及發起抗議。另外，利用行動手機，你可以錄製一首歌，把它傳送到SoundCloud並因此出了名。這些事都可以利用行動手機來做。 我1984出生，我住在柏林。讓我們回到那個時間、那個城市。這裡可以看到幾十萬人站出來抗議，要求改變。事情發生在1989年秋天，想像一下，如果那些站出來抗議、要求改變的人，人人的口袋裡都有一支行動手機。 這講堂裡有誰帶著手機的？把它舉起來。把你的手機舉起來！把你的手機舉起來！把它舉起來。Android手機、黑莓機，哇！什麼都有耶。今天幾乎人人都有手機。 不過，我今天要談的是我和我的行動手機，以及它如何改變我的生命。然後我要深入談這個事情。這裡有35,830行的資訊。未經處理的資料。為什麼有這些資訊呢？因為2006年夏天歐盟執委會頒布了一項法令。 該項法令稱為""資料保存法""。該項法令說，歐洲的每一家電話公司、整個歐洲的每一家網際網路服務商，都要廣泛地儲存使用者的資訊。誰打電話、誰傳送了電子郵件給誰？誰傳送了簡訊給誰？還有，你使用手機時，人在哪裡。這些資訊至少儲存六個月，你的電話公司或網際網路服務商也可能會儲存這些資訊兩年。 結果，整個歐洲的人站起來，說：""我們不要這樣的東西。""他們說，我們不要這種資料保存。我們在數據時代要有自決權，而且我們不要電話公司、網際網路公司必須儲存關於我們的資訊。律師、新聞從業人員、神職人員，大家都說：""我們不要這樣的東西。"" 這裡大家看到的就像是幾萬人走上柏林街頭呼喊：""要自由，不要恐懼。""還有些人甚至於說，這簡直是國家安全局2.0版。Stasi國家安全局就是東德時期的秘密警察。 我也納悶著，真的可以這樣做嗎？他們真的能夠儲存所有關於我們的資訊嗎？能儲存我每次使用手機的資料嗎？因此，我問了我的電話公司－德國電訊公司，當時是德國最大的電話公司－我問他們，麻煩啦，請把你們儲存關於我的資訊都傳送給我吧。我問了他們一次，又問了他們另一次，還是沒有得到真正的答案。只得到一些搪塞之詞。 可是我說，我要那些資訊，因為你們紀錄的那些我的生命。因此，我決定跟他們打官司，因為我要得到那些資訊。不過，德國電訊公司說，不，我們不會給你那些資料。最後呢，我跟他們和解。只要我撤回告訴，他們就把我要的所有資訊傳送給我。因為在這期間德國憲法法庭做了判決，將該項歐盟法令建置到德國法系裡是違反德國憲法的。 於是我收到了這封醜陋的牛皮紙袋，裡頭有一個光碟。光碟上就是這些東西。35,830行的資訊。首先我看到了，覺得還可以，檔案很大。這沒問題。但是過了一陣子，我明白了這裡頭記載了我的生命。這是我六個月的生命，包括在這個檔案裡。 於是，我產生了一點點懷疑，我該如何處理這件事？因為，這裡頭可以看到我在哪兒，我晚上在哪兒過夜，我做了些什麼事。然後我說，我要把這些資訊公布出來。我要讓社會大眾知道這件事。因為我要大家知道資料保存是怎麼回事。 於是與時代線上和開放資料城市聯手，我公布了這件事。這是我六個月生命的具象呈現。可以隨意縮放顯示，可以倒帶，或是快速播放。可以看到我的每一個腳步。甚至還可以看到我怎麼從法蘭克福搭火車到科隆，還看到我在旅途中多常打電話。 利用那些資料就可以看到這一切。這真是有點嚇人呢。但那不只是我個人的事。那是我們大家的事。首先，比方說，我打電話給我太太，她打電話給我，我們互相通話幾次。然後，有些朋友打電話給我，他們之間也通話。過了一陣子，你打電話給他，他打電話給她，然後就是這麼一個壯觀的通訊網絡。 不過，大家在這裡可以看到大家怎麼互相通訊，什麼時間互相打電話，他們幾時上床睡覺。這裡什麼都看得見。這裡頭可以看出誰是樞紐，比方說，誰是群組的領導者。如果你能獲得這些資訊，你就能看到你的社會正在做些什麼。如果你能獲得這些資訊，你就能控制你的社會。 這可像是中國和伊朗那種國家的好藍圖。這是教你如何監控社會的好藍圖，因為你知道誰跟誰談話，誰傳送給誰電子郵件，這些全都可以得知，只要你得到這些資訊。而且這些資訊在歐洲至少儲存六個月或長達兩年。 如同我一開頭說的，想像一下，如果所有在柏林街頭上的那些人1989年秋天口袋裡都有行動手機。那麼，國家安全局就會知道誰參加了抗議活動，而且如果國家安全局知道誰是背後的領導者，那件事可能永遠不會發生。柏林圍牆倒榻那件事恐怕就不會發生。而且其後的鐵幕倒榻也不會發生。因為，今天的國家機構和公司想要盡量儲存有關我們的資訊，不管我們上不上線。他們用盡方法想追蹤我們的生命，還想把那些資料永久儲存。 但是，自決權與數據時代的生活並不互相矛盾。只是，你今天必須爭取你的自決權。你得天天爭取你的自決權。那麼，在你回家之後，告訴你的朋友們：隱私權是21世紀的一個價值，這個價值還沒有過時。你回去之後，告訴你的民意代表，並非公司和國家機構有能力儲存那些資料，他們就必須那樣做。如果你不相信我，去問問你的電話公司，他們到底儲存了些關於你的什麼。 那麼，將來你每次使用行動手機時，記得提醒自己，在數據時代裡，你得爭取你的自決權。謝謝！ (掌聲)"
