Talk	en	zh-tw
manu_prakash_a_50_cent_microscope_that_folds_like_origami	The year is 1800. A curious little invention is being talked about. It's called a microscope. What it allows you to do is see tiny little lifeforms that are invisible to the naked eye. Soon comes the medical discovery that many of these lifeforms are actually causes of terrible human diseases. Imagine what happened to the society when they realized that an English mom in her teacup actually was drinking a monster soup, not very far from here. This is from London. Fast forward 200 years. We still have this monster soup around, and it's taken hold in the developing countries around the tropical belt. Just for malaria itself, there are a million deaths a year, and more than a billion people that need to be tested because they are at risk for different species of malarial infections. Now it's actually very simple to put a face to many of these monsters. You take a stain, like acridine orange or a fluorescent stain or Giemsa, and a microscope, and you look at them. They all have faces. Why is that so, that Alex in Kenya, Fatima in Bangladesh, Navjoot in Mumbai, and Julie and Mary in Uganda still wait months to be able to diagnose why they are sick? And that's primarily because scalability of the diagnostics is completely out of reach. And remember that number: one billion. The problem lies with the microscope itself. Even though the pinnacle of modern science, research microscopes are not designed for field testing. Neither were they first designed for diagnostics at all. They are heavy, bulky, really hard to maintain, and cost a lot of money. This picture is Mahatma Gandhi in the '40s using the exact same setup that we actually use today for diagnosing T.B. in his ashram in Sevagram in India. Two of my students, Jim and James, traveled around India and Thailand, starting to think about this problem a lot. We saw all kinds of donated equipment. We saw fungus growing on microscope lenses. And we saw people who had a functional microscope but just didn't know how to even turn it on. What grew out of that work and that trip was actually the idea of what we call Foldscopes. So what is a Foldscope? A Foldscope is a completely functional microscope, a platform for fluorescence, bright-field, polarization, projection, all kinds of advanced microscopy built purely by folding paper. So, now you think, how is that possible? I'm going to show you some examples here, and we will run through some of them. It starts with a single sheet of paper. What you see here is all the possible components to build a functional bright-field and fluorescence microscope. So, there are three stages: There is the optical stage, the illumination stage and the mask-holding stage. And there are micro optics at the bottom that's actually embedded in the paper itself. What you do is, you take it on, and just like you are playing like a toy, which it is, I tab it off, and I break it off. This paper has no instructions and no languages. There is a code, a color code embedded, that tells you exactly how to fold that specific microscope. When it's done, it looks something like this, has all the functionalities of a standard microscope, just like an XY stage, a place where a sample slide could go, for example right here. We didn't want to change this, because this is the standard that's been optimized for over the years, and many health workers are actually used to this. So this is what changes, but the standard stains all remain the same for many different diseases. You pop this in. There is an XY stage, and then there is a focusing stage, which is a flexure mechanism that's built in paper itself that allows us to move and focus the lenses by micron steps. So what's really interesting about this object, and my students hate when I do this, but I'm going to do this anyway, is these are rugged devices. I can turn it on and throw it on the floor and really try to stomp on it. And they last, even though they're designed from a very flexible material, like paper. Another fun fact is, this is what we actually send out there as a standard diagnostic tool, but here in this envelope I have 30 different foldscopes of different configurations all in a single folder. And I'm going to pick one randomly. This one, it turns out, is actually designed specifically for malaria, because it has the fluorescent filters built specifically for diagnosing malaria. So the idea of very specific diagnostic microscopes comes out of this. So up till now, you didn't actually see what I would see from one of these setups. So what I would like to do is, if we could dim the lights, please, it turns out foldscopes are also projection microscopes. I have these two microscopes that I'm going to turn — go to the back of the wall — and just project, and this way you will see exactly what I would see. What you're looking at — (Applause) — This is a cross-section of a compound eye, and when I'm going to zoom in closer, right there, I am going through the z-axis. You actually see how the lenses are cut together in the cross-section pattern. Another example, one of my favorite insects, I love to hate this one, is a mosquito, and you're seeing the antenna of a culex pipiens. Right there. All from the simple setup that I actually described. So my wife has been field testing some of our microscopes by washing my clothes whenever I forget them in the dryer. So it turns out they're waterproof, and — (Laughter) — right here is just fluorescent water, and I don't know if you can actually see this. This also shows you how  the projection scope works. You get to see the beam the  way it's projected and bent. Can we get the lights back on again? So I'm quickly going to show you, since I'm running out of time, in terms of how much it costs for us to manufacture, the biggest idea was roll-to-roll manufacturing, so we built this out of 50 cents of parts and costs. (Applause) And what this allows us to do is to think about a new paradigm in microscopy, which we call use-and-throw microscopy. I'm going to give you a quick snapshot of some of the parts that go in. Here is a sheet of paper. This is when we were thinking about the idea. This is an A4 sheet of paper. These are the three stages that you actually see. And the optical components, if you look at the inset up on the right, we had to figure out a way to manufacture lenses in paper itself at really high throughputs, so it uses a process of self-assembly and surface tension to build achromatic lenses in the paper itself. So that's where the lenses go. There are some light sources. And essentially, in the end, all the parts line up because of origami, because of the fact that origami allows us micron-scale precision of optical alignment. So even though this looks like a simple toy, the aspects of engineering that go in something like this are fairly sophisticated. So here is another obvious thing that we would do, typically, if I was going to show that these microscopes are robust, is go to the third floor and drop it from the floor itself. There it is, and it survives. So for us, the next step actually is really finishing our field trials. We are starting at the end of the summer. We are at a stage where we'll be  making thousands of microscopes. That would be the first time where we would be doing field trials with the highest density of microscopes ever at a given place. We've started collecting data for malaria, Chagas disease and giardia from patients themselves. And I want to leave you with this picture. I had not anticipated this before, but a really interesting link between hands-on science education and global health. What are the tools that we're actually providing the kids who are going to fight this monster soup for tomorrow? I would love for them to be able to just print out a Foldscope and carry them around in their pockets. Thank you. (Applause)	就在西元1800年有一個神奇的小裝置引起了眾人的關注它就是顯微鏡它的功用是讓你看見那些肉眼看不到的生命形式很快在醫學上也發現這些微小的生命形式也是造成許多可怕疾病的成因想像當時的社會發生什麼事當他們了解到一位拿著茶杯的英國婦女實事上正在啜飲一杯致病怪獸湯這是在離這裡不遠的倫敦 兩百年過後的現在世界上依舊存在這些致病怪獸湯只不過喝著他們的人大部分在開發中國家還有赤道地區就拿瘧疾來說它一年造成了一百萬人死亡而這世界上有十億人因為高風險而需要被檢測以應付不同種的瘧疾感染 現在要辨認這些怪獸的身分其實非常簡單只要拿一個染劑，例如說吖啶橙螢光染劑或吉姆薩染液再搭配顯微鏡的話，你就會發現它們全都有自己特殊的面貌如果真是這樣的話那為什麼住在肯亞的Alex住在孟加拉的Fatima、來自孟買的Navjoot還有烏干達的Julie跟Mary仍舊需要等上幾個月才能夠被診斷出他們染上了這個疾病？這主要是因為對他們來說以顯微鏡作為診斷工具是完全不可能的然後請記住這個數字：十億人 這個問題主要是出自顯微鏡本身即使現在科學十分發達研究用顯微鏡並不是針對田野測試設計的它們一開始也不是被設計拿來作為臨床診斷的工具它們很重、占空間、難以維護而且需要很多錢才能擁有一台這張照片是40年代，甘地正在他的聚會所用與現在完全相同的方式在印度的塞瓦格蘭姆診斷結核桿菌的存在 我的兩個學生Jim和James他們遊歷了印度和泰國並開始思考了這個問題我們看了各式各項被捐贈去的器材還有已經長出真菌的顯微鏡片我們也看見那些有一些人雖然有良好的顯微鏡卻不知道該怎麼使用它我們從那次旅途中滋生出一些想法我們把其命名為摺紙式顯微鏡 什麼是摺紙式顯微鏡？一個摺紙式顯微鏡具有完整的功能的顯微鏡它是一個能夠把光學及螢光顯微技術或是偏光顯微技術以及投影顯微法還有其他所有先進的顯微技術用摺紙完全實現的平台你一定在想，這怎麼可能呢？我要給你們看幾個例子我們也會在這裡做一些示範從一張簡單的紙開始你可以看到上面有各種可能的零件可以用來做出具功能的亮視野顯微鏡以及螢光顯微鏡它有三個層級鏡片、光源還有固定樣本的地方而在底部有微型的鏡片它們就直接嵌在紙裡頭你唯一需要做的是，把零件取下來就像你在玩玩具那樣其實還真的蠻像的啦我沿著標示好的邊緣把它取下來 這張紙上沒有任何說明和語言取而代之的是一種附在上面的顏色密碼它會精準地告訴你該如何組裝出一台顯微鏡完成之後，你會拿到像這樣的東西它具有標準的顯微鏡所有的功能像是一個XY平台，一個可以放上玻片樣本的地方像我手上這個我們不想改變製造樣本的方法因為這方法是個很多年來已經被最佳化的標準很多健康相關工作者也已經習慣這種樣本所以我們改變的是顯微鏡不過所有染劑使用的方法還是一樣視是哪種疾病而定你把它放進來固定在XY平台上，之後有一個可以讓你聚焦的功能它是內建在紙本身的彎曲機制能夠讓我們以微米的等級去移動鏡片並讓鏡片聚焦 這個產品最有趣的地方就在於我的學生討厭我這樣不過我還是要做這些顯微鏡十分耐用我可以啟動它並把它扔在地上然後狠狠的踩即使他們是用像紙一般有彈性的材料做成在我踩完之後，它們的功能還是能夠完好如初 另一個有趣的事實是，我手上的是我們送出去用來診斷的標準工具但是單單在這個資料夾裡我就有30種不同的摺紙式顯微鏡每一個都有自己獨特的設計讓我隨機挑一個這個，事實上就是專門為了瘧疾設計的因為它有特殊的螢光濾鏡可以用來診斷瘧疾針對不同疾病設計顯微鏡的點子就是來自這裡 直到現在，你們都還沒機會看到我用已經組裝好的顯微鏡看到的東西所以接下來我要示範一下請把燈光調暗這些摺紙式顯微鏡也具有投影顯微鏡的功能我手上有兩副顯微鏡，我要把它們面對後面的牆壁然後把我能夠看到的東西投影出來這樣你們就知道它的功能你們現在看著的是（掌聲）這是一個複眼的的剖面而當我要讓成像放大的時候我可以通過Z軸來調整你完全可以從這剖面看見這些水晶體是如何被切下來的另一個例子來自我最喜歡的昆蟲我最喜歡咒罵的昆蟲也就是蚊子你現在看到的是尖音庫蚊的觸角就在那邊你能夠用我剛剛講的簡單裝置看到所有的細節 對了，經過我妻子的實地測試也就是把我忘在衣服口袋的摺疊顯微鏡連同髒衣服一起拿去洗烘乾完之後我們發現它們可以防水（笑聲）這裡有一杯單純的螢光水我不知道你們看不看的見不過你可以從這看出投影鏡片是如何運作的你可以看光束被投射以及彎曲的情形 可以再把燈打開嗎？ 因為時間快用完了接著我要很快的讓你們看看我們需要花多少成本來製造這些我們最大的想法是採用連續捲軸式製造所以可以用50美分就製造出了這個（掌聲）而這樣的成本讓我們可以想出顯微鏡的新應用範例也就是可拋式顯微鏡我要給你一個快速的寫照讓你們知道上面的零件有哪些這裡有一張紙這是我們在思考這個想法的時候畫的這是一張A4大小的紙你可以親眼看到三個層級如果你把注意力放在右上中間可以看到光學元件我們不得不想出辦法在紙上以高產率來製造鏡片因此，它利用一個自動組裝的製程和表面張力在紙上生產出無色的鏡片那就是鏡片在的地方還有光源最後這些零件不得不排列整齊這樣才能符合摺紙的形式因為摺紙能夠讓我們以微米的精準度來做光學校正所以即使這看起來像一個簡單的玩具在裡面蘊含的工程技術也是相當複雜的 另外還有一件我們不得不做的事情基本上，如果我要告訴你們這些顯微鏡十分耐用我們要從三樓把它們丟下去就像這樣，而且它還完好如初 所以對我們來說，下一步行動就是完成田野的實地測試我們將從今年夏末開始我們正在製造上千個顯微鏡這將會是我們第一次讓一個地方擁有最高的顯微鏡普及率並做實際測試我們已經開始從病患那收集有關瘧疾美洲錐蟲症和梨形鞭毛蟲症的數據 而我希望能夠讓你們看見雖然我以前從沒想過那就是動手作的科學教育以及全球健康問題之間的有趣聯繫在未來，我們該給那些正在對抗致病怪獸湯的孩子們什麼樣的工具呢?我希望他們能夠直接列印出一個摺紙式顯微鏡並放在口袋中隨身攜帶 謝謝 （掌聲）
