Talk	en	zh-tw
marc_kushner_why_the_buildings_of_the_future_will_be_shaped_by_you	"Today I'm going to speak to you about the last 30 years of architectural history. That's a lot to pack into 18 minutes. It's a complex topic, so we're just going to dive right in at a complex place: New Jersey. Because 30 years ago, I'm from Jersey, and I was six, and I lived there in my parents' house in a town called Livingston, and this was my childhood bedroom. Around the corner from my bedroom was the bathroom that I used to share with my sister. And in between my bedroom and the bathroom was a balcony that overlooked the family room. And that's where everyone would hang out and watch TV, so that every time that I walked from my bedroom to the bathroom, everyone would see me, and every time I took a shower and would come back in a towel, everyone would see me. And I looked like this. I was awkward, insecure, and I hated it. I hated that walk, I hated that balcony, I hated that room, and I hated that house. And that's architecture. (Laughter) Done. That feeling, those emotions that I felt, that's the power of architecture, because architecture is not about math and it's not about zoning, it's about those visceral, emotional connections that we feel to the places that we occupy. And it's no surprise that we feel that way, because according to the EPA, Americans spend 90 percent of their time indoors. That's 90 percent of our time surrounded by architecture. That's huge. That means that architecture is shaping us in ways that we didn't even realize. That makes us a little bit gullible and very, very predictable. It means that when I show you a building like this, I know what you think: You think ""power"" and ""stability"" and ""democracy."" And I know you think that because it's based on a building that was build 2,500 years ago by the Greeks. This is a trick. This is a trigger that architects use to get you to create an emotional connection to the forms that we build our buildings out of. It's a predictable emotional connection, and we've been using this trick for a long, long time. We used it [200] years ago to build banks. We used it in the 19th century to build art museums. And in the 20th century in America, we used it to build houses. And look at these solid, stable little soldiers facing the ocean and keeping away the elements. This is really, really useful, because building things is terrifying. It's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's very complicated. And the people that build things — developers and governments — they're naturally afraid of innovation, and they'd rather just use those forms that they know you'll respond to. That's how we end up with buildings like this. This is a nice building. This is the Livingston Public Library that was completed in 2004 in my hometown, and, you know, it's got a dome and it's got this round thing  and columns, red brick, and you can kind of guess what Livingston is trying to say with this building: children, property values and history. But it doesn't have much to do with what a library actually does today. That same year, in 2004, on the other side of the country, another library was completed, and it looks like this. It's in Seattle. This library is about how we consume media in a digital age. It's about a new kind of public amenity for the city, a place to gather and read and share. So how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, two buildings, both called libraries, look so completely different? And the answer is that architecture works on the principle of a pendulum. On the one side is innovation, and architects are constantly pushing, pushing for new technologies, new typologies, new solutions for the way that we live today. And we push and we push and we push until we completely alienate all of you. We wear all black, we get very depressed, you think we're adorable, we're dead inside because we've got no choice. We have to go to the other side and reengage those symbols that we know you love. So we do that, and you're happy, we feel like sellouts, so we start experimenting again and we push the pendulum back and back and forth and back and forth we've gone for the last 300 years, and certainly for the last 30 years. Okay, 30 years ago we were coming out of the '70s. Architects had been busy experimenting with something called brutalism. It's about concrete. (Laughter) You can guess this. Small windows, dehumanizing scale. This is really tough stuff. So as we get closer to the '80s, we start to reengage those symbols. We push the pendulum back into the other direction. We take these forms that we know you love and we update them. We add neon and we add pastels and we use new materials. And you love it. And we can't give you enough of it. We take Chippendale armoires and we turned those into skyscrapers, and skyscrapers can be medieval castles made out of glass. Forms got big, forms got bold and colorful. Dwarves became columns. (Laughter) Swans grew to the size of buildings. It was crazy. But it's the '80s, it's cool. (Laughter) We're all hanging out in malls and we're all moving to the suburbs, and out there, out in the suburbs, we can create our own architectural fantasies. And those fantasies, they can be Mediterranean or French or Italian. (Laughter) Possibly with endless breadsticks. This is the thing about postmodernism. This is the thing about symbols. They're easy, they're cheap, because instead of making places, we're making memories of places. Because I know,  and I know all of you know, this isn't Tuscany. This is Ohio. (Laughter) So architects get frustrated, and we start pushing the pendulum back into the other direction. In the late '80s and early '90s, we start experimenting with something called deconstructivism. We throw out historical symbols, we rely on new, computer-aided design techniques, and we come up with new compositions, forms crashing into forms. This is academic and heady stuff, it's super unpopular, we totally alienate you. Ordinarily, the pendulum would just swing back into the other direction. And then, something amazing happened. In 1997, this building opened. This is the Guggenheim Bilbao, by Frank Gehry. And this building fundamentally changes the world's relationship to architecture. Paul Goldberger said that Bilbao was one of those rare moments when critics, academics, and the general public were completely united around a building. The New York Times called this building a miracle. Tourism in Bilbao increased 2,500 percent after this building was completed. So all of a sudden, everybody wants one of these buildings: L.A., Seattle, Chicago, New York, Cleveland, Springfield. (Laughter) Everybody wants one, and Gehry is everywhere. He is our very first starchitect. Now, how is it possible that these forms — they're wild and radical — how is it possible that they become so ubiquitous throughout the world? And it happened because media so successfully galvanized around them that they quickly taught us that these forms mean culture and tourism. We created an emotional reaction to these forms. So did every mayor in the world. So every mayor knew that if they had these forms, they had culture and tourism. This phenomenon at the turn of the new millennium happened to a few other starchitects. It happened to Zaha and it happened to Libeskind, and what happened to these elite few architects at the turn of the new millennium could actually start to happen to the entire field of architecture, as digital media starts to increase the speed with which we consume information. Because think about how you consume architecture. A thousand years ago, you would have had to have walked to the village next door to see a building. Transportation speeds up: You can take a boat, you can take a plane, you can be a tourist. Technology speeds up: You can see it in a newspaper, on TV, until finally, we are all architectural photographers, and the building has become disembodied from the site. Architecture is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally caught up to the speed of architecture. Because architecture actually moves quite quickly. It doesn't take long to think about a building. It takes a long time to build a building, three or four years, and in the interim, an architect will design two or eight or a hundred other buildings before they know if that building that they designed four years ago was a success or not. That's because there's never been a good feedback loop in architecture. That's how we end up with buildings like this. Brutalism wasn't a two-year movement, it was a 20-year movement. For 20 years, we were producing buildings like this because we had no idea how much you hated it. It's never going to happen again, I think, because we are living on the verge of the greatest revolution in architecture since the invention of concrete, of steel, or of the elevator, and it's a media revolution. So my theory is that when you apply media to this pendulum, it starts swinging faster and faster, until it's at both extremes nearly simultaneously, and that effectively blurs the difference between innovation and symbol, between us, the architects, and you, the public. Now we can make nearly instantaneous, emotionally charged symbols out of something that's brand new. Let me show you how this plays out in a project that my firm recently completed. We were hired to replace this building, which burned down. This is the center of a town called the Pines in Fire Island in New York State. It's a vacation community. We proposed a building that was audacious, that was different than any of the forms that the community was used to, and we were scared and our client was scared and the community was scared, so we created a series of photorealistic renderings that we put onto Facebook and we put onto Instagram, and we let people start to do what they do: share it, comment, like it, hate it. But that meant that two years before the building was complete, it was already a part of the community, so that when the renderings looked exactly like the finished product, there were no surprises. This building was already a part of this community, and then that first summer, when people started arriving and sharing the building on social media, the building ceased to be just an edifice and it became media, because these, these are not just pictures of a building, they're your pictures of a building. And as you use them to tell your story, they become part of your personal narrative, and what you're doing is you're short-circuiting all of our collective memory, and you're making these charged symbols for us to understand. That means we don't need the Greeks anymore to tell us what to think about architecture. We can tell each other what we think about architecture, because digital media hasn't just changed the relationship between all of us, it's changed the relationship between us and buildings. Think for a second about those librarians back in Livingston. If that building was going to be built today, the first thing they would do is go online and search ""new libraries."" They would be bombarded by examples of experimentation, of innovation, of pushing at the envelope of what a library can be. That's ammunition. That's ammunition that they can take with them to the mayor of Livingston, to the people of Livingston, and say, there's no one answer to what a library is today. Let's be a part of this. This abundance of experimentation gives them the freedom to run their own experiment. Everything is different now. Architects are no longer these mysterious creatures that use big words and complicated drawings, and you aren't the hapless public, the consumer that won't accept anything that they haven't seen anymore. Architects can hear you, and you're not intimidated by architecture. That means that that pendulum swinging back and forth from style to style, from movement to movement, is irrelevant. We can actually move forward and find relevant solutions to the problems that our society faces. This is the end of architectural history, and it means that the buildings of tomorrow are going to look a lot different than the buildings of today. It means that a public space in the ancient city of Seville can be unique and tailored to the way that a modern city works. It means that a stadium in Brooklyn can be a stadium in Brooklyn, not some red-brick historical pastiche of what we think a stadium ought to be. It means that robots are going to build our buildings, because we're finally ready for the forms that they're going to produce. And it means that buildings will twist to the whims of nature instead of the other way around. It means that a parking garage in Miami Beach, Florida, can also be a place for sports and for yoga and you can even get married there late at night. (Laughter) It means that three architects can dream about swimming in the East River of New York, and then raise nearly half a million dollars from a community that gathered around their cause, no one client anymore. It means that no building is too small for innovation, like this little reindeer pavilion that's as muscly and sinewy as the animals it's designed to observe. And it means that a building doesn't have to be beautiful to be lovable, like this ugly little building in Spain, where the architects dug a hole, packed it with hay, and then poured concrete around it, and when the concrete dried, they invited someone to come and clean that hay out so that all that's left when it's done is this hideous little room that's filled with the imprints and scratches of how that place was made, and that becomes the most sublime place to watch a Spanish sunset. Because it doesn't matter if a cow builds our buildings or a robot builds our buildings. It doesn't matter how we build, it matters what we build. Architects already know how to make buildings that are greener and smarter and friendlier. We've just been waiting for all of you to want them. And finally, we're not on opposite sides anymore. Find an architect, hire an architect, work with us to design better buildings, better cities, and a better world, because the stakes are high. Buildings don't just reflect our society, they shape our society down to the smallest spaces: the local libraries, the homes where we raise our children, and the walk that they take from the bedroom to the bathroom. Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天我要告訴你關於近３０年來建築學的歷史要把很多內容放進１８分鐘裡這是個複雜的議題所以我們就深入一個複雜的地方紐澤西因為３０年前　－我從紐澤西來－我六歲時，我住在父母的房子裡在一個名為利文斯頓的小鎮這是我童年的臥房就在臥房的角落是姐姐跟我共用的浴室在我的臥房和浴室中間是可以看到客廳的陽台那是大家閒聊和看電視的地方每當我從臥房走到浴室大家都看得到我每當我沖完澡，批著浴巾走回臥室大家都看得到我而我看起還像這樣好尷尬沒安全感，我討厭這樣我討厭這段路，我討厭這個陽台我討厭那個房間，我討厭那間房子而，那就是建築（笑聲）好我感覺到建築的力量因為建築無關數學，無關空間這關乎內心與情緒的連結我們對於自身所處空間的感受我們的感受不令人意外因為根據環保署美國人有９０％的時間在室內有９０％的時間被建築物圍繞很可觀那代表建築正以我們沒有察覺的方式形塑我們那使我們有些僵化，非常非常容易預測這意味著，當我展示這樣的建物時我知道你們的想法你們想到力量，穩定，和民主我知道你們這麼想是因為這個建築物２５００年前由希臘人所建築的這是個技巧這是建築用來刺激你創造一種情緒的連結連結到我們建築的形式這是個可預期的情緒連結而我們以使用這個技巧，很久很久了我們用這個技巧在２００年前蓋了銀行在１９世紀蓋了博物館而在２０世紀的美國我們用它來蓋房屋看看這些穩固的小戰士們面對大海，遠離基本要素這真的很有用因為蓋東西是很可怕的昂貴，耗時，又很複雜蓋東西的人　－開發者和政府　－他們在本質上害怕創新他們寧願用這些他們知道你會如何回應的形式結果是我們造出這類房子這是一個好的建築物這是利文斯頓圖書館２００４年在我的家鄉完工它有個圓頂圓弧狀、圓柱和紅磚你可以猜想到立文斯頓試著透過它說話孩童、財富價值以及歷史但它跟現在的圖書館沒甚麼關聯同樣一年，２００４，在這個國家的另一邊另一個圖書館完工了看起來像這樣這在西雅圖這圖書館是關於我們如何在數位時代消化媒體它是這個城市公共設施的新型態一個可以累積、閱讀和分享的地方這如何做得到？在同一年，同一個國家兩棟都被稱為圖書館的建築物看起來卻完全不同？答案是建築學是依照鐘擺理論運作的一邊是創新建築師持續推動新科技新類型學、新方案用於今日的居住形式我們不斷地推動、推動、再推動直到我們完全與世隔絕我們身著華服你們認為我們是值得尊敬的我們內心是一片死寂，因為我們別無選擇我們必須去到另一邊再次琢磨那些你們所愛的經典我們這麼做，而你們會開心我們自覺像叫賣所以我們又再次開始實驗我們把鐘擺推向後方，後方、前方、後方、前方我們已經這麼做了，在最近３００年當然也包括最近３０年３０年前，正是７０年代建築師正忙著試驗一種稱為粗獷主義的東西就是混凝土（笑聲）你可以猜猜看小窗戶，不合乎人體尺寸的比例尺這真是很粗野的東西所以當我們靠近８０年代我們開始鑽研那些經典我們把鐘擺拉回到另一個方向我們採用你們會喜歡的形式作一些更新我們增加了氖燈增加些粉嫩的顏色使用些新材料然後你們就會愛上它我們不能夠給你們足夠的東西時我們拿了齊本德爾式櫥櫃把它轉化為摩天大樓而摩天大樓可以是玻璃做的中世紀城堡形式巨大化形式凸顯、又富有色彩小矮人變梁柱（笑聲）天鵝長得像房子一樣大真瘋狂！但那是８０年代，那很酷！（笑聲）我們都在購物中心逛街我們向郊區遷徙就在郊區我們可以創造自我的建築夢幻作品那些夢幻作品可以是地中海風格法國風格或是義大利風格（笑聲）也許帶著數不盡的長棍麵包這是後現代主義這關乎經典簡單又便宜因為無關建築我們在創造建築的回憶因為我知道，我知道你們都知道這不是托斯卡尼這是俄亥俄州（笑聲）所以建築師很挫折我們開始把鐘擺推向另一邊在８０年代後期、９０年代初期我們開始實驗某個稱為解構主義的玩意丟棄歷史的經典我們仰賴新的、電腦輔助的設計技巧我們有了新的組成從破壞中創造新的形式這是學院派與新潮派的產物超級不普及我們完全與世隔絕一般來說，鐘擺只會擺盪到另一個方向然後，令人驚喜的事情發生了在１９９７年，這棟建築物開幕了這是畢爾包古根漢美術館，出自法蘭克·蓋瑞之手而這個建築物從根本上改變世界與建築的關係保羅·戈德伯格說畢爾包是極少見的能夠將話題、學術與普羅大眾完美結合在一起的建築紐約時報稱之為奇蹟畢爾包的遊客增加了２５００％在這個建築物完工之後轉瞬間，所有人都想要一個這樣的建築物洛杉磯西雅圖芝加哥紐約克里夫蘭斯普林菲爾德（笑聲）大家都想要一個，蓋瑞的作品到處都有他是第一個超級明星建築師這些形式是如何能夠　－－狂野又前衛　－－它如何能夠在全世界變得普及呢？它的成功來自媒體成功的鍍金媒體很快地教會我們，這些風格代表文化與觀光我們創造了這種風格的情緒反應每個市長也如此每個市長知道，如果他有擁有這些他們就擁有文化和觀光這個現象在新的千禧年之際發生在某些其他超級明星建築師身上發生在札哈身上（札哈·哈蒂，伊拉克裔英國建築師）發生在里伯斯金身上（波蘭、猶太裔美國建築師）發生在這些菁英建築師的事在新千禧年來臨之際可以開始發生在整個建築領域正當數位媒體開始加速我們消化資訊的速度因為想想你如何消化建築千年以前你必須要走過一個村莊才能看到你要的建築交通加速發展你可以搭船、搭飛機、可以是個旅行者科技加速發展，你可以在報紙、電視看到最終，我們都是建築攝影師而建築已從固定的地方解放出來建築現在到處可見這意謂著，傳播的速度終於趕上建築的速度因為建築事實上移動得相當快速不需要花費太多時間來構思一個建築物需要花很多時間建造一個建築物三或四年在這期間，建築師會設計２或８個或是１００個其他建築物在他們知道４年前設計的作品成功與否之前那是因為未曾有好的回饋圍繞在建築旁那就是我們呈現這類建物的方式粗獷主義不是兩年期的活動它是２０年期的活動２０年來，我們持續蓋出這樣的建築因為我們不知道你們多討厭它。這將不再發生就我的認知而言；因為我們正處於最偉大建築革命的邊緣自混凝土、鋼結構或電梯問世以來而現在是媒體革命我的理論是：在鐘擺上應用媒體時它開始擺盪的越來越快直到幾乎同時到達兩個極端這有效地模糊了前衛與經典的差異就在我們、建築師、你們與群眾之間現在我們可以幾乎一瞬間創造富有情感的經典從全新的事物上讓我來說明這如何運作就在我公司最近完成的一個專案中我們受聘換掉這棟失火過的建築這是稱作派恩斯的小鎮的中心在紐約州的火島它是個度假勝地我們提議了一個大膽的建築那是當地未曾出現過的形式我們很害怕，客戶也很害怕當地社區也很害怕所以我們創造了一系列的圖像式呈現放上Facebook放上Instagram我們讓人們開始動作分享、評論、喜歡、討厭但那代表在完工前的兩年，該建築已經是當地社區的一部分所以當呈現的圖像跟完工後看起來一模一樣時沒有驚喜該建物已經是社區的一份子了接著的第一個夏天當人們開始抵達，開始分享該建築在社群媒體時它不只是個建築，它變成媒體因為這些不只是建築的照片這些是屬於你的建築物的照片當你用它們來說故事它們變成的你個人故事的一部分你正在做的，就是短暫回顧我們共同的記憶你們正在創造這些富有情感的符號，讓我們能夠理解那代表我們再也不需要希臘風格來告訴我們用甚麼去思考建築我們可以彼此分享關於建築的想法因為數位媒體不僅改變我們彼此的關係也改變了我們跟建築的關係用一秒鐘回想利文斯頓的圖書館如果圖書館是在今日被建造它們會做的第一件事是上網，然後搜尋""新圖書館""他們會受到範例的衝擊，實驗性的、創新的嘗試突破常規的圖書館範例那都是有力的資訊那都是可以帶給其他人的有力資訊給利文斯頓的市長、利文斯頓的群眾然後說：沒有一個答案可以說明今日的圖書館應該是甚麼讓我們共同參與這個豐富的實驗過程給他們彈性去嘗試自己的實驗一切從今不同建築師從此不再是神祕的生物使用高深文字與複雜圖表的生物你們不是不幸運的群眾消費者不再接受從未看過的任何東西建築師可以聽見你的聲音而你不會再因建築感到不適這意謂鐘擺前後擺盪從不同風格、不同行動都沒有關連我們可以真正地向前行找到社會面臨的問題的相關解決方案這是建築史的結束這代表明日的建築將與今日的建物大大不同代表塞維亞古城的公共空間可以是獨一且迎合現代城市運作的方式代表布魯克林的體育館就是一座坐落於布魯克林的體育館不是紅磚的歷史拼貼風格不是我們想像中體育館應該有的模樣代表機器人將可以建造建築物因為我們終於準備好機器人可以投入建築的形式代表建築將會隨自然的律動而轉向而非其他方式代表佛羅里達邁阿密的車庫也可以是個運動的地方瑜珈也可以甚至可以在那舉辦晚間婚禮（笑聲）代表三個建築師可以做個游泳的白日夢就在紐約的東河然後募資５０萬從圍繞在它們的構想的社群而不再是單一客戶代表沒有建物會因太小而無法創新就像這個小小的馴鹿觀賞室它就像被觀賞的動物一樣粗曠有勁代表建物不需要是美麗的可愛的就像西班牙這個醜醜的建築物建築師在那挖了個洞填滿乾草然後在周遭澆鑄混凝土當混凝土乾燥後他們邀請某人過來，然後把乾草清掉這就是完工後的樣子這是個醜陋的小房間充滿了印記、痕跡，關於這房間是如何被建造的最終，變成最觸動心弦的西班牙風格夕陽景觀房因為這無關乎是否是一頭牛蓋房子或是機器人蓋房子這無關乎如何蓋房子，只關乎我們蓋了甚麼建築師已經知道如何蓋出更綠的房子更智慧化、更友善我們一直都在等待你們的渴望而最終，我們不再站在相反的那一邊找一位建築師，聘請一位建築師跟我們一起工作，設計更好的建築、更好的城市、更好的世界因為這賭注很高建築不只反射出我們的社會，也塑造我們的社會直到每個最渺小的地方當地的圖書館我們養育孩子的家還有他們所走過的從房間到浴室的這段路謝謝！（掌聲）"
