Talk	en	zh-tw
marco_tempest_the_electric_rise_and_fall_of_nikola_tesla	As a magician, I'm always interested in performances that incorporate elements of illusion. And one of the most remarkable was the tanagra theater, which was popular in the early part of the 20th century. It used mirrors to create the illusion of tiny people performing on a miniature stage. Now, I won't use mirrors, but this is my digital tribute to the tanagra theater. So let the story begin. On a dark and stormy night — really! — it was the 10th of July, 1856. Lightning lit the sky, and a baby was born. His name was Nikola, Nikola Tesla. Now the baby grew into a very smart guy. Let me show you. Tesla, what is 236 multiplied by 501? Nikola Tesla: The result is 118,236. Marco Tempest: Now Tesla's brain worked in the most extraordinary way. When a word was mentioned, an image of it instantly appeared in his mind. Tree. Chair. Girl. They were hallucinations, which vanished the moment he touched them. Probably a form of synesthesia. But it was something he later turned to his advantage. Where other scientists would play in their laboratory, Tesla created his inventions in his mind. NT: To my delight, I discovered I could visualize my inventions with the greatest facility. MT: And when they worked in the vivid playground of his imagination, he would build them in his workshop. NT: I needed no models, drawings or experiments. I could picture them as real in my mind, and there I run it, test it and improve it. Only then do I construct it. MT: His great idea was alternating current. But how could he convince the public that the millions of volts required to make it work were safe? To sell his idea, he became a showman. NT: We are at the dawn of a new age, the age of electricity. I have been able, through careful invention, to transmit, with the mere flick of a switch, electricity across the ether. It is the magic of science. (Applause) Tesla has over 700 patents to his name: radio, wireless telegraphy, remote control, robotics. He even photographed the bones of the human body. But the high point was the realization of a childhood dream: harnessing the raging powers of Niagara Falls, and bringing light to the city. But Tesla's success didn't last. NT: I had bigger ideas. Illuminating the city was only the beginning. A world telegraphy center — imagine news, messages, sounds, images delivered to any point in the world instantly and wirelessly. MT: It's a great idea; it was a huge project. Expensive, too. NT: They wouldn't give me the money. MT: Well, maybe you shouldn't have told them it could be used to contact other planets. NT: Yes, that was a big mistake. MT: Tesla's career as an inventor never recovered. He became a recluse. Dodged by death, he spent much of his time in his suite at the Waldorf-Astoria. NT: Everything I did, I did for mankind, for a world where there would be no humiliation of the poor by the violence of the rich, where products of intellect, science and art will serve society for the betterment and beautification of life. MT: Nikola Tesla died on the 7th of January, 1943. His final resting place is a golden globe that contains his ashes at the Nikola Tesla Museum in Belgrade. His legacy is with us still. Tesla became the man who lit the world, but this was only the beginning. Tesla's insight was profound. NT: Tell me, what will man do when the forests disappear, and the coal deposits are exhausted? MT: Tesla thought he had the answer. We are still asking the question. Thank you. (Applause)	身為魔術師，我一直對運用幻覺的表演感興趣。其中最特殊的就是德國塔納格拉劇院，它在二十世紀初期很受歡迎。它運用鏡子在一個微型舞台上製造出小人表演的幻覺。我現在不用鏡子，但這是我運用數位魔幻對塔納格拉劇院的致敬。那就讓這個故事開始吧。 在一個黑暗暴風雨的夜晚 — 真的！ —那是1856年的7月10日。閃電照亮了夜空，一個嬰兒誕生了。他的名字叫尼古拉，尼古拉.特斯拉。這個嬰兒長大後成為一個非常聰明的人。讓我帶你來看 。 特斯拉，236乘501是多少？ 尼古拉.特斯拉：答案是十一萬八千二百三十六 馬可.泰姆派斯特：特斯拉的頭腦用極不尋常的方式運行。當聽到一個字句時，他腦海裡會瞬間浮現出那個影像。他腦海裡會瞬間浮現出那個影像。樹。椅子。女孩。這都是幻想，在他觸碰它們時就會消失。大概是一種聯想感覺吧。 但他把這種能力變成他的優勢。但他把這種能力變成他的優勢。當別的科學家待在實驗室裡做實驗，特斯拉卻在腦海裡創造他的發明。 特斯拉：實在太棒了，我發現我能夠運用這個能力勾勒出我的發明。 泰姆派斯特：當他豐富想像力成功的構思後，他接著在自己的工作室裡開始製造。 特斯拉：我不需要模型、設計圖或實驗。我可以在腦海裡看到最真實的作品，我在那兒執行、測試然後改進。直到可行之後，我才把它真正建造出來。 泰姆派斯特：他的發明就是交流電。但他要怎麼說服民眾為了運行所需的幾百萬伏特電壓是安全的呢？為了推銷他的想法,他成為一個表演家。 特斯拉：我們即將迎接一個新時代的黎明，電力的時代。透過仔細的研究發明，我可以輕鬆的撥動一個開關，便將電力傳導過導電體。輕鬆的撥動一個開關，便將電力傳導過導電體。這是科學的魔術。（掌聲） 特斯拉名下有超過七百個專利：無線電，無線電報遙控，機器人。他甚至有辦法拍出人體骨骼的照片。但他事業的高潮是當他實現兒時夢想：運用尼加拉瀑布的巨大力量照亮了整個城市。 但特斯拉的成功並沒有持續太久。 特斯拉：我有更大的構想。照亮城市只是開端。一個世界電報中心 — 試著想像新聞、訊息、聲音、影像一個世界電報中心 — 試著想像新聞、訊息、聲音、影像都能瞬間以無線方式傳達到世界的任何一點。都能瞬間以無線方式傳達到世界的任何一點。 泰姆派斯特：這真是個很棒的點子；一個又巨大又昂貴的計劃。 特斯拉：他們不願意投資。 泰姆派斯特：那你當初不應該對他們說這個技術也可以用來與外星球聯絡。 特斯拉：對阿，那是個大錯誤。 泰姆派斯特：特斯拉的發明家事業從此一蹶不振。他過著遁世隱居的生活。在他過世之前，他大部份時間都住在瓦朵夫-亞斯托利雅旅館的套房裡。 特斯拉：我所做的一切都是為了人類，一個貧窮不會被權貴脅迫羞辱的世界，這個世界中，智慧、科學與藝術的產品是為了服務社會、創造更美好的生活。 泰姆派斯特：尼古拉.特斯拉死於1943年1月7日。他最後的安息之處就在貝爾格勒市的尼古拉特斯拉博物館裡，一只放著他骨灰的金球中。就在貝爾格勒市的尼古拉特斯拉博物館裡，一只放著他骨灰的金球中。他的傳奇持續到今天。 特斯拉是照亮全世界的人物，但那只是開始。特斯拉的洞見極為深遠浩瀚。 特斯拉：告訴我，當森林消失和煤炭礦存已用盡時人類會採取什麼舉動? 泰姆派斯特：特斯拉認為他已經有了答案。而我們卻仍舊繼續在探索這個難題。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
