Talk	en	zh-tw
marc_abrahams_a_science_award_that_makes_you_laugh_then_think	"George and Charlotte Blonsky, who were a married couple living in the Bronx in New York City, invented something. They got a patent in 1965 for what they call, ""a device to assist women in giving birth."" This device consists of a large, round table and some machinery. When the woman is ready to deliver her child, she lies on her back, she is strapped down to the table, and the table is rotated at high speed. The child comes flying out through centrifugal force. If you look at their patent carefully, especially if you have any engineering background or talent, you may decide that you see one or two points where the design is  not perfectly adequate. (Laughter) Doctor Ivan Schwab in California is one of the people,  one of the main people, who helped answer the question, ""Why don't woodpeckers get headaches?"" And it turns out the answer to that is because their brains are packaged inside their skulls in a way different from the way our brains, we being human beings, true, have our brains packaged. They, the woodpeckers, typically will peck, they will bang their head on a piece of wood thousands  of times every day. Every day! And as far as anyone knows, that doesn't bother them in the slightest. How does this happen? Their brain does not slosh around like ours does. Their brain is packed in very tightly, at least for blows coming  right from the front. Not too many people paid attention to this research until the last few years when, in this country especially, people are becoming curious about what happens to the brains of football players who bang their heads repeatedly. And the woodpecker maybe relates to that. There was a paper published in the medical journal The Lancet in England a few years ago called "" A man who pricked his finger and smelled putrid for 5 years."" Dr. Caroline Mills and her team received this patient and didn't  really know what to do about it. The man had cut his finger, he worked processing chickens, and then he started to smell really, really bad. So bad that when  he got in a room with the doctors and the nurses, they couldn't stand being  in the room with him. It was intolerable. They tried every drug, every other treatment they could think of. After a year, he still  smelled putrid. After two years, still smelled putrid. Three years, four years, still smelled putrid. After five years, it went away on its own. It's a mystery. In New Zealand, Dr. Lianne Parkin and her team tested an old  tradition in her city. They live in a city that has huge hills, San Francisco-grade hills. And in the winter there, it gets very cold and very icy. There are lots of injuries. The tradition that they tested, they tested by asking people who were on their way to  work in the morning, to stop and try something out. Try one of two conditions. The tradition is that in the winter, in that city, you wear your socks on the outside of your boots. And what they discovered by experiment, and it was quite graphic when they saw it, was that it's true. That if you wear your socks on the  outside rather than the inside, you're much more likely  to survive and not slip and fall. Now, I hope you will agree with me that these things I've just described to you, each of them, deserves some kind of prize. (Laughter) And that's what they got, each of them got an Ig Nobel prize. In 1991, I, together with bunch of other people, started the Ig Nobel prize ceremony. Every year we give out 10 prizes. The prizes are based on just  one criteria. It's very simple. It's that you've done something that  makes people laugh and then think. What you've done makes  people laugh and then think. Whatever it is, there's something about it that when people encounter it at first, their only possible reaction is to laugh. And then a week later, it's still rattling around in their heads and all they want to do  is tell their friends about it. That's the quality we look for. Every year, we get in the neighborhood of 9,000 new nominations  for the Ig Nobel prize. Of those, consistently between 10 percent and 20 percent of those nominations are people who nominate themselves. Those self-nominees almost never win. It's very difficult, numerically,  to win a prize if you want to. Even if you don't want to, it's very difficult numerically. You should know that when  we choose somebody to win an Ig Nobel prize, We get in touch with that person, very quietly. We offer them the chance to decline this great honor if they want to. Happily for us, almost everyone  who's offered a prize decides to accept. What do you get if you win an Ig Nobel prize? Well, you get several things. You get an Ig Nobel prize. The design is different every year. These are always handmade from extremely cheap materials. You're looking at a picture of the prize we gave last year, 2013. Most prizes in the world also give their winners some cash, some money. We don't have any money, so we can't give them. In fact, the winners have to pay their own way to come to the Ig Nobel ceremony, which most of them do. Last year, though, we did manage to scrape up some money. Last year, each of the 10 Ig Nobel prize winners received from us 10 trillion dollars. A $10 trillion bill from Zimbabwe. (Laughter) You may remember that  Zimbabwe had a little adventure for a few years there of inflation. They ended up printing bills that were in denominations as large as 100 trillion dollars. The man responsible, who runs the national bank there, by the way, won an Ig Nobel prize in mathematics. The other thing you win is an invitation to come to the ceremony, which happens at Harvard University. And when you get there, you come to Harvard's biggest  meeting place and classroom. It fits 1,100 people, it's jammed to the gills, and up on the stage, waiting to shake your hand, waiting to hand you your Ig Nobel prize, are a bunch of Nobel prize winners. That's the heart of the ceremony. The winners are kept secret until that moment, even the Nobel laureates  who will shake their hand don't know who they are until they're announced. I am going to tell you  about just a very few of the other medical-related prizes we've given. Keep in mind, we've given 230 prizes. There are lots of these people who walk among you. Maybe you have one. A paper was published about 30 years ago called ""Injuries due to Falling Coconuts."" It was written by Dr. Peter Barss, who is Canadian. Dr. Barss came to the ceremony and explained that as a young doctor, he wanted to see the world. So he went to Papua New Guinea. When he got there, he went to work in a hospital, and he was curious what kinds of things happen to people that bring them to the hospital. He looked through the  records, and he discovered that a surprisingly large number of people in that hospital were there because of injuries due to falling coconuts. One typical thing that happens is people will come from the highlands, where there are not many coconut trees, down to visit their relatives on the coast, where there are lots. And they'll think that a coconut tree is a fine place to stand and maybe lie down. A coconut tree that is 90 feet tall, and has coconuts that weigh two pounds that can drop off at any time. A team of doctors in Europe published a series of papers about colonoscopies. You're all familiar with colonoscopies, one way or another. Or in some cases, one way and another. They, in these papers, explained to their fellow doctors who perform colonoscopies, how to minimize the chance that when you perform a colonoscopy, your patient will explode. (Laughter) Dr. Emmanuel Ben-Soussan one of the authors, flew in from Paris to the ceremony, where he explained the history of this, that in the 1950s, when colonoscopies were becoming a common technique for the first time, people were figuring out how to do it well. And there were some difficulties at first. The basic problem, I'm sure you're familiar with, that you're looking inside a  long, narrow, dark place. And so, you want to have a larger space. You add some gas to inflate it so you have room to look around. Now, that's added to the  gas, the methane gas, that's already inside. The gas that they used at first, in many cases, was oxygen. So they added oxygen to methane gas. And then they wanted to be able to see, they needed light, so they'd put in a light source, which in the 1950s was very hot. So you had methane gas, which is flammable, oxygen and heat. They stopped using oxygen pretty quickly. (Laughter) Now it's rare that patients will explode, but it does still happen. The final thing that I want  to tell you about is a prize we gave to Dr. Elena Bodnar. Dr. Elena Bodnar invented a brassiere that in an emergency can be quickly separated into a pair of protective face masks. One to save your life, one to save the life of some  lucky bystander. (Laughter) Why would someone do this, you might wonder. Dr. Bodnar came to the ceremony and she explained that  she grew up in Ukraine. She was one of the doctors who treated victims of the Chernobyl power plant meltdown. And they later discovered that a lot of the worst medical problems came from the particles people breathed in. So she was always thinking after that about could there be some simple mask that was available everywhere when the unexpected happens. Years later, she moved to America. She had a baby, One day she looked, and on the floor, her infant son had picked up her bra, and had her bra on his face. And that's where the idea came from. She came to the Ig Nobel ceremony with the first prototype of the bra and she demonstrated: (Laughter) (Applause) [""Paul Krugman, Nobel laureate  (2008) in economics""] [""Wolfgang Ketterle, Nobel  laureate (2001) in physics""] I myself own an emergency bra. (Laughter) It's my favorite bra, but I would be happy to  share it with any of you, should the need arise. Thank you. (Applause)"	喬治與夏洛蒂·布朗斯基是一對居住在紐約布朗克斯的夫妻，他們有一項發明，在1965年獲得專利，他們稱其為“協助婦女分娩的裝置”。這個裝置由一個很大圓桌及一些機械裝置組成，當孕婦將要臨盆時，讓她平躺下來，並將她捆綁在桌子上。接著平台開始高速旋轉，小孩就藉由離心力飛出來。(笑聲)如果你仔細檢視他們的專利，特別是如果你有任何工程背景或天分，你可能會看到這個設計有一兩項缺點。(笑聲) 加州的艾凡‧施瓦布醫生是幫忙解答以下問題的主要人物之一：“為什麼啄木鳥不會頭痛？”最後得出的結論是：因為牠們頭蓋骨包覆大腦的方式與人類不同，當然，人類大腦也被頭蓋骨包覆着。而牠們，啄木鳥，通常就是把頭撞向樹幹，每天上千下，每天哦！而據我們所知，這對牠們一點傷害都沒有。為什麼會這樣呢？ 牠們的大腦不會像人類的那樣搖盪，而是與頭殼緊密地連接在一起，至少可應付來自前方的撞擊。一直以來人們都很少關注這個研究，直到最近幾年，特別在美國，人們開始感到好奇，那些經常撞到頭的橄欖球運動員，他們的大腦是否會因此受傷害。啄木鳥的研究可能就與此相關。 幾年前，在英國《刺胳針》醫學期刊上刊出一篇論文，題為《手指刺傷後，五年來一直發出腐臭味的男人》，卡洛琳‧米爾斯醫生和她的團隊接收了這位病人，卻束手無策。這位手指受傷的男人，他的工作是處理雞肉，受傷之後他就變得非常非常臭，臭到當他在房間時，連醫護人員都無法忍受與他呆在一個房間裡，味道真的令人難以忍受。他們嘗試了所能想到的各種藥物和每一種治療方法，一年後，他依舊散發腐爛的氣味，兩年後，情況依舊，三年、四年，還是有濃濃的腐爛氣味，五年後，臭味自動消失了！此案例至今是個謎。 在紐西蘭，莉安 • 帕金博士和她的團隊在她的城市試驗了一個古老的傳統，他們住在一個滿是大山丘的城市，像舊金山那裡的山丘，在冬季那裡非常寒冷，冷到結冰，所以常常有人滑倒受傷。他們試驗的傳統就是：他們請早上去上班的人們，停下來進行兩項試驗中的一種，這個傳統是：在那個城市的冬天你將襪子穿在靴子的外面。他們從試驗的生動畫面中發現，是真的，如果你將襪子穿在靴子外面而不是裡面，就比較不容易滑倒。 我希望你們會同意，我剛剛談到的這些研究，每一項都應該拿到某種獎項。(笑聲)他們確實有得到，剛介紹的每一項都拿到搞笑(Ig)諾貝爾獎，我和一些人在1991年創立了搞笑諾貝爾獎，每一年我們頒發十個搞笑諾貝爾獎，這個獎只有一個簡單的得獎標準，就是你做的能讓人發笑，然後思考。不管是什麼，當人第一次接觸到它時，他們唯一的反應是笑，然後，在一週後，那件事仍盤踞在他們的腦中，他們唯一想做的就是與朋友分享，那就是我們要找的特質。 每一年我們收到大約九千件新的搞笑諾貝爾獎提名，其中，一直都有10%到20%是來自自我推薦。（笑聲）這些自行提名的絕少得獎，從數據來看，就算你很想得獎，得獎的機會微乎其微，同樣就算你不想得獎，得獎的機會還是微乎其微。你知道嗎，當我們選中一個搞笑諾貝爾獎得主，我們會先私下與他聯絡，我們給他們一個拒絕領獎的機會，我們很高興，幾乎每位被選中的得主都決定接受這個獎。 作為搞笑諾貝爾獎得主，你會得到什麼呢？你會得到幾個東西：一個搞笑諾貝爾獎座，每年的獎座設計都不一樣，(笑聲)它們都是用非常便宜的材料手工製成，你現在看到的是我們去年(2013)頒發的獎座。世上大多數的獎項都會頒發一些獎金，我們沒有任何經費，所以無法頒獎金。事實上，獲獎者得自費來參加頒獎，但大部分的人會來。去年，我們湊了一點錢，給十位得獎者每一位都十兆元的獎金，十兆元耶！一張十兆元的辛巴威紙鈔。(笑聲)你可能記得辛巴威在過去幾年稍有波折，就是通貨膨脹，他們最後印的紙鈔最高票面金額達十兆元。順便提一下，負責此事的國家銀行總裁贏得了搞笑諾貝爾獎的數學獎。(笑聲) 另外，你會得到一張搞笑諾貝爾獎頒獎典禮的邀請函，典禮是在哈佛大學舉行，當你來到哈佛最大的會議室兼教室，你會看到在可容納1100千人的會場擠得水泄不通。而在舞台上等著和你握手並頒獎給你的是一堆(真正的)諾貝爾獎得主。那是整個典禮的精髓，直到那一刻，獲獎者名單仍是秘密，即使那些會與他們握手的諾貝爾獎得主也不知道誰是得獎者，直到名字被公佈。 現在我要跟你們分享一些我們頒發的醫療相關獎項，提醒你我們已頒發了230個獎項。許多得主可能在你們之中，或者你自己就是。30年前，有一篇發表的論文題目是”墜落的椰子導致的傷害”，作者是加拿大的彼得‧巴爾斯醫生，巴爾斯醫生在頒典禮時解釋，當他是年輕醫生時，想要看看世界，所以他去了巴布亞紐幾內亞，當他在當地醫院工作時，他很好奇當地人送醫的原因為何？他翻閱了醫療記錄後，驚奇得發現，相當多的病人是因為被墜落的椰子砸傷而送醫。典型的事件經過是：一些來自沒有許多椰子樹的高地人，來到有許多椰子樹的海邊拜訪親戚，他們想椰子樹下似乎是很適合站立或躺下的地方，椰子樹有27公尺高，每個椰子約0.9公斤重，隨時可能會掉下來。 有一組在歐洲的醫生發表了一系列有關大腸鏡檢查的論文，各位應該對大腸鏡檢查多少知道一些，有些知道還不止一些。在這些論文裡，他們對進行大腸鏡檢查的醫生解釋，如何降低病人進行大腸鏡檢查時爆炸的機率，（笑聲）其中一位作者艾曼紐勒‧貝蘇桑醫生從巴黎飛來參加頒獎典禮，在典禮中，他解釋了有關這方面的歷史，在1950年代，那時大腸鏡檢查才開始成為一個普遍的技術，大家都在摸索怎麼做最好，剛開始時有些困難，你們對根本的問題應有些熟悉，你得從一個很長、很窄又很黑的地方看進去，你會希望有比較寬闊的空間，所以你會灌入一些氣體使它膨脹，讓你有空間可以看清楚，在裡面原已存在甲烷起初他們大多數灌入氧氣，他們將氧氣加入原有的甲烷相混和，然後為了他們能夠看清楚，他們需要亮光，所以就加上光源，在1950年代，光源是很熱的，就這樣，你有了易燃的甲烷，氧氣和熱源，他們很快就停用氧氣了。（笑聲）現在，很少有病人會爆炸，但是偶而仍會發生。 最後我要告訴你們的是我們頒發給伊蓮娜‧巴特那醫生的獎項。她發明了一個在緊急時可以很快拆開變成兩個口罩的胸罩。一個可以救你自己的命 ，另外一個可以救很幸運的旁觀者。(笑聲)你可能會想， 為什麼會有人要做這個？巴特那醫生來到頒獎典禮，她解釋說：她在烏克蘭長大，她是治療車諾比核能廠核災受害者的醫生之一，他們後來發現許多最嚴重的醫療問題，都導於因病患吸入的物體，之後她就經常在想，若是意外發生時，有什麼是簡單又隨手可得的口罩，多年後，她移居美國並生了一個小孩，有一天，她看到小孩揀起她在地上的胸罩，並將它放在臉上，那就是她的靈感來源。她來參加頒獎典禮時，還帶了第一個原型樣本現場進行示範。（笑聲和掌聲）[保羅‧庫格曼，2008年諾貝爾經濟獎得主][沃爾夫岡‧克特勒，2001年諾貝爾物理獎得主] 我自己也擁有一個緊急用胸罩，(笑聲)這是我最喜歡的胸罩，但有需要時，我會很樂意和你們任何一個人分享。謝謝！(掌聲)
