Talk	en	zh-tw
marco_tempest_a_magical_tale_with_augmented_reality	Marco Tempest: What I'd like to show you today is something in the way of an experiment. Today's its debut. It's a demonstration of augmented reality. And the visuals you're about to see are not prerecorded. They are live and reacting to me in real time. I like to think of it as a kind of technological magic. So fingers crossed. And keep your eyes on the big screen. Augmented reality is the melding of the real world with computer-generated imagery. It seems the perfect medium to investigate magic and ask, why, in a technological age, we continue to have this magical sense of wonder. Magic is deception, but it is a deception we enjoy. To enjoy being deceived, an audience must first suspend its disbelief. It was the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge who first suggested this receptive state of mind. Samuel Taylor Coleridge: I try to convey a semblance of truth in my writing to produce for these shadows of the imagination a willing suspension of disbelief that, for a moment, constitutes poetic faith. MT: This faith in the fictional is essential for any kind of theatrical experience. Without it, a script is just words. Augmented reality is just the latest technology. And sleight of hand is just an artful demonstration of dexterity. We are all very good at suspending our disbelief. We do it every day, while reading novels, watching television or going to the movies. We willingly enter fictional worlds where we cheer our heroes and cry for friends we never had. Without this ability there is no magic. It was Jean Robert-Houdin, France's greatest illusionist, who first recognized the role of the magician as a storyteller. He said something that I've posted on the wall of my studio. Jean Robert-Houdin: A conjurer is not a juggler. He is an actor playing the part of a magician. MT: Which means magic is theater and every trick is a story. The tricks of magic follow the archetypes of narrative fiction. There are tales of creation and loss, death and resurrection, and obstacles that must be overcome. Now many of them are intensely dramatic. Magicians play with fire and steel, defy the fury of the buzzsaw, dare to catch a bullet or attempt a deadly escape. But audiences don't come to see the magician die, they come to see him live. Because the best stories always have a happy ending. The tricks of magic have one special element. They are stories with a twist. Now Edward de Bono argued that our brains are pattern matching machines. He said that magicians deliberately exploit the way their audiences think. Edward de Bono: Stage magic relies almost wholly on the momentum error. The audience is led to make assumptions or elaborations that are perfectly reasonable, but do not, in fact, match what is being done in front of them. MT: In that respect, magic tricks are like jokes. Jokes lead us down a path to an expected destination. But when the scenario we have imagined suddenly flips into something entirely unexpected, we laugh. The same thing happens when people watch magic tricks. The finale defies logic, gives new insight into the problem, and audiences express their amazement with laughter. It's fun to be fooled. One of the key qualities of all stories is that they're made to be shared. We feel compelled to tell them. When I do a trick at a party — (Laughter) that person will immediately pull their friend over and ask me to do it again. They want to share the experience. That makes my job more difficult, because, if I want to surprise them, I need to tell a story that starts the same, but ends differently — a trick with a twist on a twist. It keeps me busy. Now experts believe that stories go beyond our capacity for keeping us entertained. We think in narrative structures. We connect events and emotions and instinctively transform them into a sequence that can be easily understood. It's a uniquely human achievement. We all want to share our stories, whether it is the trick we saw at the party, the bad day at the office or the beautiful sunset we saw on vacation. Today, thanks to technology, we can share those stories as never before, by email, Facebook, blogs, tweets, on TED.com. The tools of social networking, these are the digital campfires around which the audience gathers to hear our story. We turn facts into similes and metaphors, and even fantasies. We polish the rough edges of our lives so that they feel whole. Our stories make us the people we are and, sometimes, the people we want to be. They give us our identity and a sense of community. And if the story is a good one, it might even make us smile. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)	馬可·天普斯特：今天我要表演一段從某種程度來說還在實驗階段的東西今天是首次亮相它是擴增實境的示範表演你們等一下看到的視覺效果都不是預錄的而是現場產生的效果並且與我即時互動我想這也算是一種科技魔術所以希望一切順利囉現在請大家注視大螢幕 擴增實境是把電腦產生的圖像套在現實世界的一種手法這似乎也是研究魔術的完美方法並且問 為什麼在這個科技時代我們仍然保留這種奇妙的感性魔術是欺騙我們卻樂在其中要享受被騙的感覺觀眾必須先讓自己暫時放下懷疑的態度詩人塞繆爾·泰勒·柯立芝首先描述此種全然相信的心智狀態 柯立芝：我試圖在文字裡傳達看似真實的假象引起想像的幻影（使讀者）自願暫時放下懷疑的態度因而 在這（閱讀的）片刻投入於故事中 構成詩意的信念 馬可：這種閱讀小說時的投入感是每一種戲劇表現的必備條件沒有它劇本只是文字擴增實境只是最新科技而魔術也不過就是巧妙的表演手的靈巧罷了我們對「暫時放下懷疑」的態度很在行我們每天都這樣做當我們讀小說看電視或看電影時我們甘心樂意地進入虛構的世界在那裡我們為我們的英雄歡呼為我們從未擁有的朋友哭泣沒有這項能力就沒有魔術 約翰·羅伯胡迪是法國最偉大的魔術師他首先承認魔術師扮演着說故事（說謊者）的角色在我的工作室牆上貼着他以下的話語 胡迪：魔術師不是雜耍的他是演員 扮演魔術師角色 馬可：他的意思是魔術是一種戲劇表現而每一個橋段都是一個故事魔術的戲法遵循寫敘事小說的模式在小說裡有敘述着創造與失落死亡與復活以及克服重重障礙的的故事而很多表演非常戲劇化魔術師玩火與刀劍對抗猛烈的電鋸膽敢徒手接子彈或試著逃脫死亡陷阱但是觀眾不是來看魔術師表演死亡他們來看他表演如何存活因為最好的故事都以喜劇收場 魔術的戲法有個很特別的元素就是故事曲折愛德華·狄波諾認為人腦是圖像配對機器他說魔術師故意誤導觀眾的思考模式 愛德華·狄波諾：舞台魔術幾乎全靠所謂的錯誤期待觀眾被誤導 作出完全合理的假設或解釋但其實 呈現在他們眼前的表演完全不是想像的那回事 馬可：在這方面魔術戲法就像說笑話笑話故意引導我們往說話者要我們想的方向思考但是當我們想像的情節突然有了轉折變成不是原來的預想情節我們就笑了觀看魔術也是同樣的道理結局不合邏輯讓問題有了新見解觀眾以笑聲表示驚奇之意被騙是一件好玩的事 所有的故事都有個共同點就是故事是要拿來分享的我們覺得非告訴別人不可當我在派對裡變魔術—（笑聲）看過的人會馬上呼朋引伴而且要求我再變一次獨樂樂不如眾樂樂這使我的表演更困難了因為 如果我想要讓他們驚喜我就要用同樣的開頭講一個故事但是要有不同的結局—戲法轉上加轉這讓我忙得不得了 現在專家相信故事不只是娛樂我們以敘事結構的方式思考我們將事件及感受連接在一起然後本能的將之轉化為可以輕鬆理解的順序這是人類一項特別的成就我們都想要分享我們的故事不管是在派對上看到的戲法還是工作上的不順或是我們在度假時看到的美麗夕陽 今天 拜科技之賜我們可以用前所未見的方式分享那些經歷可以用電子郵件 臉書部落格 推特甚至是在TED.com上都可以社群網站這些工具好像數位營火般讓觀眾圍繞聽我們講故事我們把事實轉成比喻甚至變成幻想我們把生命中的尖尖角角美化讓觀眾看到完美的情節我們所說的故事塑造了別人心目中的我們有時候甚至讓我們成為我們想成為的人故事給了我們身份的認同以及與人群一體的感覺而且如果這個故事好聽我們甚至會隨之微笑 謝謝 （鼓掌） 謝謝 （鼓掌）
