Talk	en	zh-tw
mark_forsyth_what_s_a_snollygoster_a_short_lesson_in_political_speak	"One of my favorite words in the whole of the Oxford English Dictionary is ""snollygoster,"" just because it sounds so good. And what snollygoster means is ""a dishonest politician."" Although there was a 19th-century newspaper editor who defined it rather better when he said, ""A snollygoster is a fellow who seeks office regardless of party, platform or principle, and who, when he wins, gets there by the sheer force of monumental talknophical assumnancy."" (Laughter) Now, I have no idea what ""talknophical"" is. Something to do with words, I assume. But it's very important that words are at the center of politics, and all politicians know they have to try and control language. It wasn't until, for example, 1771 that the British Parliament allowed newspapers to report the exact words that were said in the debating chamber. And this was actually all down to the bravery of a guy with the extraordinary name of Brass Crosby, who took on Parliament. And he was thrown into the Tower of London and imprisoned, but he was brave enough, he was brave enough to take them on, and in the end, he had such popular support in London that he won. And it was only a few years later that we have the first recorded use of the phrase ""as bold as brass."" Most people think that's down to the metal. It's not; it's down to a campaigner for the freedom of the press. But to really show you how words and politics interact, I want to take you back to the United States of America, just after they'd achieved independence. And they had to face the question of what to call George Washington, their leader. They didn't know. What do you call the leader of a republican country? And this was debated in Congress for ages and ages. And there were all sorts of suggestions on the table, which might have made it. I mean, some people wanted him to be called ""Chief Magistrate Washington,"" and other people, ""His Highness, George Washington,"" and other people, ""Protector of the Liberties of the People of the United States of America Washington."" Not that catchy. Some people just wanted to call him king — it was tried and tested. They weren't even being monarchical, they had the idea that you could be elected king for a fixed term. And, you know, it could have worked. And everybody got insanely bored, because this debate went on for three weeks. I read a diary of this poor senator who just keeps coming back, ""Still on this subject."" And the reason for the delay and the boredom was that the House of Representatives were against the Senate. The House of Representatives didn't want Washington to get drunk on power. They didn't want to call him ""king,"" in case that gave him ideas, or his successor ideas. So they wanted to give him the humblest, meagerest, most pathetic title that they could think of. And that title ... was ""President."" (Laughter) ""President."" They didn't invent the title. I mean, it existed before, but it just meant somebody who presides over a meeting. It was like the foreman of the jury. And it didn't have much more grandeur than the term ""foreman"" or ""overseer."" There were occasional presidents of little colonial councils and bits of government, but it was really a nothing title. And that's why the Senate objected to it. They said, ""That's ridiculous! You can't call him 'President.' This guy has to go and sign treaties and meet foreign dignitaries. Who's going to take him seriously if he's got a silly little title like 'President of the United States of America'?"" (Laughter) And after three weeks of debate, in the end, the Senate did not cave in. Instead, they agreed to use the title ""President"" for now. But they also wanted it absolutely set down that they didn't agree with it, from a decent respect for the opinions and practice of civilized nations, whether under republican or monarchical forms of government, whose custom it is to annex, through the office of the Chief Magistrate, titles of respectability — not bloody ""President."" And that, in the intercourse with foreign nations, the majesty of the people of the United States may not be hazarded by an appearance of singularity — i.e., we don't want to look like bloody weirdos. Now, you can learn three interesting things from this. First of all — and this is my favorite — is that, so far as I've ever been able to find out, the Senate has never formally endorsed the title of President. Barack Obama, President Obama, is there on borrowed time, just waiting for the Senate to spring into action. (Laughter) The second thing you can learn is that, when a government says that this is a temporary measure — (Laughter) you can still be waiting 223 years later. But the third thing you can learn — and this is the really important one, the point I want to leave you on — is that the title, ""President of the United States of America,"" doesn't sound that humble at all these days, does it? Something to do with the slightly over 5,000 nuclear warheads he has at his disposal and the largest economy in the world and a fleet of drones and all that sort of stuff. Reality and history have endowed that title with grandeur. And so the Senate won in the end. They got their title of respectability. And also, the Senate's other worry, the appearance of singularity — well, it was a singularity back then. But now, do you know how many nations have a president? A hundred and forty-seven. All because they want to sound like the guy who's got the 5,000 nuclear warheads, etc. And so, in the end, the Senate won and the House of Representatives lost ... because nobody's going to feel that humble when they're told that they are now the President of the United States of America. And that's the important lesson I think you can take away, and the one I want to leave you with. Politicians try to pick and use words to shape and control reality, but in fact, reality changes words far more than words can ever change reality. Thank you very much."	"全牛津英語字典中我最喜歡的單字是 snollygoster不僅因為它聽起來很棒而且它的意思是“一位不誠實的政客”不過，有一位19世紀的報紙編輯給了最好的定義，他說：“snollygoster 是一個為了謀求高位的人不擇政黨、場合或原則為了贏得該職位他會竭盡全力用三寸不爛之舌以達到目的"" (笑聲) 我完全不懂“talknophical”是什麼意思我想大概是和言語詞彙有關但言語詞彙卻是政治運作的核心所有政客都明白他們必須試著控制言論 舉例來說，一直到1771年英國國會才准許報紙刊出政客在議會所說的逐字稿事實上，這全是因為一位勇敢的人他非凡的名字叫 Brass Crosby他對抗國會然後被丟進倫敦塔裡遭到囚禁但是他還是很勇敢在國會挺身而出最終，因倫敦廣大的民眾支持而贏得勝利僅僅幾年後出現這片語最早的使用記錄“as bold as brass” （像Brass一樣的勇敢）很多人認為這片語的來源與金屬有關不是的，它是出自於一位捍衛新聞自由的勇士 不過它真正顯示出言語和政治如何互動我想來說說過去的美國在它才剛獨立的時候他們須面對一個問題要如何稱呼他們的領袖喬治·華盛頓他們不知道應該怎麼尊稱一位共和國的領袖 國會為了這問題爭論許久檯面上有許多的建議有些貌似可行有些人想稱他為「首席行政官華盛頓」而另一些人想稱他為「喬治·華盛頓殿下」還有人稱他「保障美國人民自由的保衛者華盛頓」不怎麼響亮一些人只想稱他為「國王」他們認為這稱號過去用過並經得起考驗他們甚至並不想延續君主獨裁制他們的想法是國王是可以透過選舉產生的有一定的任期這樣大概可行 為此每個人都感到非常地厭煩，事實上這場辯論持續了3個禮拜我讀過當時一位可憐議員的日記裡面不斷的寫著「還是這個議題」導致延宕和和厭倦的原因是眾議院是反對參議院的眾議院不想讓華盛頓沉醉於權力他們不想稱他為國王以防他或他的繼任者會自認為國王 他們想給他一個最謙卑、最微不足道最為可悲的頭銜而這個頭銜叫 President (總統)President，不是他們創造的字眼這個頭銜以前就存在但它只指會議主持人類似陪審團主席與 foreman（工頭）或 overseer（監工）相比它一點也沒有比較顯赫雖然這名稱會偶爾指某些小殖民地的行政官有一絲地區首領意味但它真的是個不怎樣的頭銜 這也是為什麼參議院反對這頭銜的原因他們說，這太荒謬，你們不能稱他為主席這個人必須去簽條約和接見外國貴賓誰會認真對待他如果他只有如此愚蠢的小頭銜：美國總統（President of the United States of America） 之後經過三週的辯論最後參議院也沒有屈服他們同意暫時先用 President 這稱號但他們也極力澄清他們不同意這個頭銜是出於對文明國家對意見和做法的尊重無論此政府是行共和制或者君主制他的職權依照慣例同首席行政總理，是極具體面的尊稱而不是該死的 President還有在同外國交際時美國人們的尊嚴不會被這怪異的頭銜所損害意即：我們不想被看成一群該死的怪人 從這個故事裡我們學到三件有趣的事首先，也是我最喜歡的到目前為止，在所有我能找到的資料裡參議院從來沒有正式的認可過「總統」這個頭銜歐巴馬「總統」一稱，到現在還是暫借的還在等待參議院著手處理名稱一事我們可以學到的第二件事是當一個政府宣稱這只是一項臨時措施（笑聲）—它會持續223年之久而不改變 但第三件事非常重要是我最想讓你們記住的要點就是「美國總統」這個頭銜現在聽起來一點都不卑微，不是嗎？他有大約5000多枚核彈彈頭等著他發號施令還有著全世界最大的經濟體還有許多飛機艇艦，和其他的資源現實和歷史賦予了這個頭銜尊貴的含義所以最終參議院仍然贏了他們得到了想要的體面頭銜而且，參議院擔心這個頭銜聽起來很古怪它也只有過去那時候很古怪而已但現在，你知道現在有多少個國家有「總統」嗎？147個這都是因為他們想讓自己聽起來像那個擁有5000多枚核彈的傢伙一樣 所以到最後，參議院勝利了眾議院輸了因為沒有人會感到謙卑當他們被告知他們現在是美國總統這是很重要的一課也是我想留給你們思考的要點政客們該謹慎選擇用詞，並利用詞彙塑造和控制現實，但是事實上現實改變詞彙遠遠超過詞彙能改變現實 非常感謝大家"
