Talk	en	zh-tw
marla_spivak_why_bees_are_disappearing	This is our life with bees, and this is our life without bees. Bees are the most important pollinators of our fruits and vegetables and flowers and crops like alfalfa hay that feed our farm animals. More than one third of the world's crop production is dependent on bee pollination. But the ironic thing is that bees are not out there pollinating our food intentionally. They're out there because they need to eat. Bees get all of the protein they need in their diet from pollen and all of the carbohydrates they need from nectar. They're flower-feeders, and as they move from flower to flower, basically on a shopping trip at the local floral mart, they end up providing this valuable pollination service. In parts of the world where there are no bees, or where they plant varieties that are not attractive to bees, people are paid to do the business of pollination by hand. These people are moving pollen from flower to flower with a paintbrush. Now this business of hand pollination is actually not that uncommon. Tomato growers often pollinate their tomato flowers with a hand-held vibrator. Now this one's the tomato tickler. (Laughter) Now this is because the pollen within a tomato flower is held very securely within the male part of the flower, the anther, and the only way to release this pollen is to vibrate it. So bumblebees are one of the few kinds of bees in the world that are able to hold onto the flower and vibrate it, and they do this by shaking their flight muscles at a frequency similar to the musical note C. So they vibrate the flower, they sonicate it, and that releases the pollen in this efficient swoosh, and the pollen gathers all over the fuzzy bee's body, and she takes it home as food. Tomato growers now put bumblebee colonies inside the greenhouse to pollinate the tomatoes because they get much more efficient pollination when it's done naturally and they get better quality tomatoes. So there's other, maybe more personal reasons, to care about bees. There's over 20,000 species of bees in the world, and they're absolutely gorgeous. These bees spend the majority of their life cycle hidden in the ground or within a hollow stem and very few of these beautiful species have evolved highly social behavior like honeybees. Now honeybees tend to be the charismatic representative for the other 19,900-plus species because there's something about honeybees that draws people into their world. Humans have been drawn to honeybees since early recorded history, mostly to harvest their honey, which is an amazing natural sweetener. I got drawn into the honeybee world completely by a fluke. I was 18 years old and bored, and I picked up a book in the library on bees and I spent the night reading it. I had never thought about insects living in complex societies. It was like the best of science fiction come true. And even stranger, there were these people, these beekeepers, that loved their bees like they were family, and when I put down the book, I knew I had to see this for myself. So I went to work for a commercial beekeeper, a family that owned 2,000 hives of bees in New Mexico. And I was permanently hooked. Honeybees can be considered a super-organism, where the colony is the organism and it's comprised of 40,000 to 50,000 individual bee organisms. Now this society has no central authority. Nobody's in charge. So how they come to collective decisions, and how they allocate their tasks and divide their labor, how they communicate where the flowers are, all of their collective social behaviors are mindblowing. My personal favorite, and one that I've studied for many years, is their system of healthcare. So bees have social healthcare. So in my lab, we study how bees keep themselves healthy. For example, we study hygiene, where some bees are able to locate and weed out sick individuals from the nest, from the colony, and it keeps the colony healthy. And more recently, we've been studying resins that bees collect from plants. So bees fly to some plants and they scrape these very, very sticky resins off the leaves, and they take them back to the nest where they cement them into the nest architecture where we call it propolis. We've found that propolis is a natural disinfectant. It's a natural antibiotic. It kills off bacteria and molds and other germs within the colony, and so it bolsters the colony health and their social immunity. Humans have known about the power of propolis since biblical times. We've been harvesting propolis out of bee colonies for human medicine, but we didn't know how good it was for the bees. So honeybees have these remarkable natural defenses that have kept them healthy and thriving for over 50 million years. So seven years ago, when honeybee colonies were reported to be dying en masse, first in the United States, it was clear that there was something really, really wrong. In our collective conscience, in a really primal way, we know we can't afford to lose bees. So what's going on? Bees are dying from multiple and interacting causes, and I'll go through each of these. The bottom line is, bees dying reflects a flowerless landscape and a dysfunctional food system. Now we have the best data on honeybees, so I'll use them as an example. In the United States, bees in fact have been in decline since World War II. We have half the number of managed hives in the United States now compared to 1945. We're down to about two million hives of bees, we think. And the reason is, after World War II, we changed our farming practices. We stopped planting cover crops. We stopped planting clover and alfalfa, which are natural fertilizers that fix nitrogen in the soil, and instead we started using synthetic fertilizers. Clover and alfalfa are highly nutritious food plants for bees. And after World War II, we started using herbicides to kill off the weeds in our farms. Many of these weeds are flowering plants that bees require for their survival. And we started growing larger and larger crop monocultures. Now we talk about food deserts, places in our cities, neighborhoods that have no grocery stores. The very farms that used to sustain bees are now agricultural food deserts, dominated by one or two plant species like corn and soybeans. Since World War II, we have been systematically eliminating many of the flowering plants that bees need for their survival. And these monocultures extend even to crops that are good for bees, like almonds. Fifty years ago, beekeepers would take a few colonies, hives of bees into the almond orchards, for pollination, and also because the pollen in an almond blossom is really high in protein. It's really good for bees. Now, the scale of almond monoculture demands that most of our nation's bees, over 1.5 million hives of bees, be transported across the nation to pollinate this one crop. And they're trucked in in semi-loads, and they must be trucked out, because after bloom, the almond orchards are a vast and flowerless landscape. Bees have been dying over the last 50 years, and we're planting more crops that need them. There has been a 300 percent increase in crop production that requires bee pollination. And then there's pesticides. After World War II, we started using pesticides on a large scale, and this became necessary because of the monocultures that put out a feast for crop pests. Recently, researchers from Penn State University have started looking at the pesticide residue in the loads of pollen that bees carry home as food, and they've found that every batch of pollen that a honeybee collects has at least six detectable pesticides in it, and this includes every class of insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, and even inert and unlabeled ingredients that are part of the pesticide formulation that can be more toxic than the active ingredient. This small bee is holding up a large mirror. How much is it going to take to contaminate humans? One of these class of insecticides, the neonicontinoids, is making headlines around the world right now. You've probably heard about it. This is a new class of insecticides. It moves through the plant so that a crop pest, a leaf-eating insect, would take a bite of the plant and get a lethal dose and die. If one of these neonics, we call them, is applied in a high concentration, such as in this ground application, enough of the compound moves through the plant and gets into the pollen and the nectar, where a bee can consume, in this case, a high dose of this neurotoxin that makes the bee twitch and die. In most agricultural settings, on most of our farms, it's only the seed that's coated with the insecticide, and so a smaller concentration moves through the plant and gets into the pollen and nectar, and if a bee consumes this lower dose, either nothing happens or the bee becomes intoxicated and disoriented and she may not find her way home. And on top of everything else, bees have their own set of diseases and parasites. Public enemy number one for bees is this thing. It's called varroa destructor. It's aptly named. It's this big, blood-sucking parasite that compromises the bee's immune system and circulates viruses. Let me put this all together for you. I don't know what it feels like to a bee to have a big, bloodsucking parasite running around on it, and I don't know what it feels like to a bee to have a virus, but I do know what it feels like when I have a virus, the flu, and I know how difficult it is for me to get to the grocery store to get good nutrition. But what if I lived in a food desert? And what if I had to travel a long distance to get to the grocery store, and I finally got my weak body out there and I consumed, in my food, enough of a pesticide, a neurotoxin, that I couldn't find my way home? And this is what we mean by multiple and interacting causes of death. And it's not just our honeybees. All of our beautiful wild species of bees are at risk, including those tomato-pollinating bumblebees. These bees are providing backup for our honeybees. They're providing the pollination insurance alongside our honeybees. We need all of our bees. So what are we going to do? What are we going to do about this big bee bummer that we've created? It turns out, it's hopeful. It's hopeful. Every one of you out there can help bees in two very direct and easy ways. Plant bee-friendly flowers, and don't contaminate these flowers, this bee food, with pesticides. So go online and search for flowers that are native to your area and plant them. Plant them in a pot on your doorstep. Plant them in your front yard, in your lawns, in your boulevards. Campaign to have them planted in public gardens, community spaces, meadows. Set aside farmland. We need a beautiful diversity of flowers that blooms over the entire growing season, from spring to fall. We need roadsides seeded in flowers for our bees, but also for migrating butterflies and birds and other wildlife. And we need to think carefully about putting back in cover crops to nourish our soil and nourish our bees. And we need to diversify our farms. We need to plant flowering crop borders and hedge rows to disrupt the agricultural food desert and begin to correct the dysfunctional food system that we've created. So maybe it seems like a really small countermeasure to a big, huge problem — just go plant flowers — but when bees have access to good nutrition, we have access to good nutrition through their pollination services. And when bees have access to good nutrition, they're better able to engage their own natural defenses, their healthcare, that they have relied on for millions of years. So the beauty of helping bees this way, for me, is that every one of us needs to behave a little bit more like a bee society, an insect society, where each of our individual actions can contribute to a grand solution, an emergent property, that's much greater than the mere sum of our individual actions. So let the small act of planting flowers and keeping them free of pesticides be the driver of large-scale change. On behalf of the bees, thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. Just a quick question. The latest numbers on the die-off of bees, is there any sign of things bottoming out? What's your hope/depression level on this? Maria Spivak: Yeah. At least in the United States, an average of 30 percent of all bee hives are lost every winter. About 20 years ago, we were at a 15-percent loss. So it's getting precarious. CA: That's not 30 percent a year, that's — MS: Yes, thirty percent a year. CA: Thirty percent a year. MS: But then beekeepers are able to divide their colonies and so they can maintain the same number, they can recuperate some of their loss. We're kind of at a tipping point. We can't really afford to lose that many more. We need to be really appreciative of all the beekeepers out there. Plant flowers. CA: Thank you. (Applause)	如果有蜜蜂，生活就像這樣!如果沒有牠們，生活會是這樣!對蔬果花卉而言蜜蜂是最重要的授粉者受惠的還有苜蓿等牲畜賴以為生的飼料作物三分之一以上的全球作物產量有賴蜜蜂授粉 但與我們所想的不同蜜蜂是無意間幫糧食作物授粉的他們飛出來是為了覓食蜜蜂飲食中所需的蛋白質全來自花粉而碳水化合物則由花蜜供給他們以花為食從這朵飛到到那朵他們就像在當地花市購物一樣結果無意間促成授粉但有些地方沒有蜜蜂或植物多樣性不足吸引蜜蜂便必須花錢請人來幫忙授粉這些人正做著傳粉的工作但用的是筆刷目前手工授粉的工作其實不算罕見番茄農常用手持振動器替番茄花授粉這就是番茄搔癢器之所以必須動用這種器材是因為番茄的花粉深藏在雄蕊的花藥中要振動才能釋放花粉少數能抓牢並搖動番茄花的蜂種當中熊蜂是其中之一牠們以近似Do音的頻率(約256 Hz)抖動控制飛行的肌肉群以音波振動花朵花粉就在俐落的嗖嗖聲中釋放毛茸茸的熊蜂因此滿身花粉得以將食物帶回家因此番茄農在溫室養熊蜂替番茄授粉因為順其自然的方式授粉效率高很多且番茄的品質也較好 所以其他因素或個人考量都讓人們有理由關切蜜蜂共有兩萬多的蜂種遍布全世界他們美極了這些蜂的大半生多蟄居地底或空心的莖稈內這些美妙的蜂種中，只有少數像蜜蜂一樣演化出高度的社會行為 深具魅力的蜜蜂常被視為其他一萬九千九百多種蜂的代表因為牠們有一種特質吸引人們去了解牠們人類受蜜蜂吸引的歷史可追朔到史料紀載之初主要是為了採集蜂蜜這種奇妙的天然甘味劑 而我沉迷其中則完全是無心插柳那時我18歲，生活有些乏味就在圖書館選了一本關於密蜂的書然後花一整夜閱讀在那之前我從不知道昆蟲有複雜的社會結構簡直就像暢銷科幻小說的翻版更奇怪的是有一群人一群愛蜂如親的養蜂人當我讀完那本書，我覺得非得親眼看看不可所以我到一家專業蜂場工作業主一家在新墨西哥州有2千個蜂箱我從此無法自拔 蜜蜂群可說是一種超級社會組織群體本身就是這個組織由4到5萬隻單獨個體組成蜜蜂的社會組織沒有最高權威個體間都是平等的牠們是怎麼達成集體決策?怎麼分配任務和分工?還有牠們如何傳達花的位置?牠們的種種集體社會行為都令人驚嘆我個人的最愛，也是我研究多年的部分是他們的醫療保健系統沒錯，蜜蜂有社會保健制度!我的實驗室研究蜜蜂怎麼保持健康例如我們研究衛生有些蜜蜂能夠找出病號把牠們趕出蜂巢和蜂群藉此維持群體健康最近我們研究樹脂蜜蜂從植物採集樹脂牠們飛到某些植物上把樹葉上粘稠的樹脂刮下來然後帶回蜂巢用來構築蜂巢結構就是我們所謂的蜂膠蜂膠已證實是天然的殺菌劑是天然的抗生素能殺死細菌、黴菌以及蜂群裡的其他病菌所以蜂膠改善了群體健康和免疫力人類從聖經時代就已知箇中奧妙為了醫藥用途從蜂窩採集蜂膠由來已久但過去我們不知道它對蜜蜂有多大好處蜜蜂以這些非凡的天然防禦機制保持族群健康興旺已有五千多萬年的時間 所以七年前美國開始傳出有關蜂群大量死亡的報導情況明顯不妙若本能地以人類的共同文化來看就會知道失去蜜蜂的後果不堪設想到底發生甚麼事了?其實蜂群死亡其來有自，且交錯紛雜我會逐一說明但根本的問題是蜜蜂的死亡反映了環境中缺乏花朵還有失能的糧食系統 至於蜜蜂則有最可靠的數據我會以這些數據為例以美國來看蜜蜂數量自二戰後持續減少目前美國養蜂場的蜂箱數是1945年的一半我們估計總數已減少到約2百萬箱原因是二戰後我們改變了耕作方式不再種覆土作物像三葉草和苜蓿它們能把土壤中的氮素鎖住，是天然肥料而我們卻以化肥取代但對蜜蜂而言，三葉草和苜蓿的營養價值很高另外，二戰後除草劑的施用雖除去農場上的雜草但其中很多是開花植物也是蜜蜂生存命脈另外單一作物的種植面積擴大所以我們要談談食品沙漠城市中有些地方沒有雜貨店而過去蜜蜂賴以生存的農場反成食品沙漠為一兩種作物寡占例如玉米和大豆二戰後人類就有計畫地除去許多開花植物可是蜜蜂仰賴它們維生單一作物的農耕方式甚至使用在像杏仁這樣對蜜蜂有益的作物50年前，養蜂人會帶著數個蜂群(箱)到杏仁園進行授粉一個原因是杏仁花粉富含蛋白質，對蜜蜂很好目前杏仁的單一作物規模需要動用全國大部分的蜜蜂幫忙150萬多個蜂箱的蜜蜂被送到全國各地幫杏仁授粉蜂箱是以半承載式卡車運達事後送返因為花期過後的杏仁園是花影杳然的無垠景觀 這50年來蜜蜂逐漸滅絕我們卻種了更多需要牠們的作物需要蜜蜂授粉的作物近來產量已成長了三倍 另一個致命傷是農藥二戰後我們拼命使用農藥而這演變為一種必要手段因為單一作物的耕作方式提供了害蟲豐盛的食物最近賓州大學的研究人員已著手研究蜜蜂帶回家吃的花粉中農藥殘留的程度他們發現蜜蜂採集的每一批花粉都測出至少6種農藥包括各類殺蟲劑除草劑和殺真菌劑甚至還包括不知名的佐劑這些佐劑雖是次要成分卻可能比主成分更毒借鏡這些小蜂的遭遇可窺見農藥劑量對人體危害的比例 有一類殺蟲劑叫類尼古丁（新菸鹼Neonicotinoids）正引起全球關注你們可能早有耳聞這是一類新型殺蟲劑藥性可蔓延整株植物因此食葉害蟲只需一口便足以喪命如果任一種俗稱neonics(類尼古丁)的農藥以高濃度施用像這樣施用於土壤植物所吸收的成分劑量足以滲入花粉和花蜜蜜蜂在此情況下吃進高劑量的神經毒素會抽搐而死不過在大多農耕及農場環境中只有種子表層包覆著殺蟲劑循環於植物體內的劑量較低花粉和花蜜所含藥量也較低如果蜜蜂吃了較低的藥量可能安然無恙或是暈頭轉向可能因此茫然不知歸途禍不單行的是蜜蜂還有疾病和寄生蟲的難題這是蜂類的頭號公敵叫做蜂蟎（varroa destructor）恰如其名蜂蟎是一種大型吸血寄生蟲會弱化蜜蜂的免疫系統並散布病毒 我想為各位統整一下我無法與蜜蜂感同身受體會大型吸血寄生蟲在身上亂竄的感覺我也不知道蜜蜂染上病毒的感受但我有感染病毒和流感的切身經驗我也知道奔波趕赴雜貨店購買營養品的辛苦若我住在食品沙漠必須長途跋涉才能抵達雜貨店而當我終得以拖著疲憊身軀進門找到食物吃但食物中的殺蟲劑神經毒卻足以讓我返家時迷路這就是所謂多重因素交戶作用致死 而且不只蜜蜂所有美麗的野生蜂種都身陷危機包括替番茄授粉的熊蜂牠們是蜜蜂的後援和蜜蜂一樣提供授粉保障因此所有蜂種缺一不可 那我們該怎麼辦?我們給蜜蜂製造的大麻煩該如何收拾?事實上沒那麼糟，還有希望的!你們每一個人都可以幫上忙有兩種非常直接容易的方法種植對蜜蜂無害的花不要對花施用殺蟲劑因為它們是蜜蜂的食物上網搜尋資料種植本土原生的花種可種在門階上的花盆裡或前院和草坪上也可以種在林蔭大道上鼓吹在公共綠地上種植這些花社區空間及野地也行還要撥出農地種花因為我們需要多樣花種從春到秋接續綻放橫亙整個生長季路旁也需要種花為了蜜蜂，遷徙的候鳥和蝴蝶及其他野生物種我們同時需要慎重考慮復植覆土作物來涵養土壤並滋補蜜蜂我們還需要多元化的農場還有，把開花作物當農場邊界及圍籬阻斷農業上的食品沙漠蔓延著手修正我們一手創造卻失能的糧食系統 只以種花面對如此龐然的問題看似螳臂擋車但蜜蜂吃得好人類才有營養來源因為蜜蜂會傳粉蜜蜂有營養可攝取就能強化的自身抵抗力還有牠們仰賴數百萬年之久的醫療保健對我來說，這種復育方式的精髓是人人都需多投入一些如同蜜蜂和昆蟲的社會每一個體行動都能幫忙解套這是非常重要的特性其價值遠勝加總所有的個別行動讓我們擺脫農藥栽培花種這種小小舉動將促成巨大的變革 我替蜜蜂謝謝你們 （掌聲） Chris Anderson：謝謝妳，請教一個簡短問題有關蜜蜂滅絕的最新數據有沒有否極泰來的跡象?妳對此是比較樂觀或悲觀? Maria Spivak：好的至少在美國每年冬季蜂箱數的損失率平均是30%而大約20年前只有15％因此情況岌岌可危 Chris Anderson：：是每年30％嗎?Marla Spivak：是的，每年30％ Chris Anderson：每年3成的損失Marla Spivak：但養蜂人可以分散蜂群以維持相同數目的蜂群他們可以挽回部分損失 但已逼近臨界點真的不能再損失那麼多蜂群了!我們真該感謝養蜂人大家去種花吧 Chris Anderson：謝謝妳 （掌聲）
