Talk	en	zh-tw
matthieu_ricard_how_to_let_altruism_be_your_guide	"So we humans have an extraordinary potential for goodness, but also an immense power to do harm. Any tool can be used to build or to destroy. That all depends on our motivation. Therefore, it is all the more important to foster an altruistic motivation rather than a selfish one. So now we indeed are facing  many challenges in our times. Those could be personal challenges. Our own mind can be our best friend or our worst enemy. There's also societal challenges: poverty in the midst of plenty, inequalities, conflict, injustice. And then there are the new challenges, which we don't expect. Ten thousand years ago, there were about five million human beings on Earth. Whatever they could do, the Earth's resilience  would soon heal human activities. After the Industrial and Technological Revolutions, that's not the same anymore. We are now the major agent of impact on our Earth. We enter the Anthropocene, the era of human beings. So in a way, if we were to say we need to continue this endless growth, endless use of material resources, it's like if this man was saying — and I heard a former head of state, I won't mention who, saying — ""Five years ago, we were at the edge of the precipice. Today we made a big step forward."" So this edge is the same that has been defined by scientists as the planetary boundaries. And within those boundaries, they can carry a number of factors. We can still prosper, humanity can still prosper for 150,000 years if we keep the same stability of climate as in the Holocene for the last 10,000 years. But this depends on choosing a voluntary simplicity, growing qualitatively, not quantitatively. So in 1900, as you can see, we were well within the limits of safety. Now, in 1950 came the great acceleration. Now hold your breath, not too long, to imagine what comes next. Now we have vastly overrun some of the planetary boundaries. Just to take biodiversity,  at the current rate, by 2050, 30 percent of all species  on Earth will have disappeared. Even if we keep their DNA in some fridge, that's not going to be reversible. So here I am sitting in front of a 7,000-meter-high,  21,000-foot glacier in Bhutan. At the Third Pole, 2,000 glaciers are melting fast, faster than the Arctic. So what can we do in that situation? Well, however complex politically, economically, scientifically the question of the environment is, it simply boils down to a question of altruism versus selfishness. I'm a Marxist of the Groucho tendency. (Laughter) Groucho Marx said, ""Why should I care about future generations? What have they ever done for me?"" (Laughter) Unfortunately, I heard the billionaire Steve Forbes, on Fox News, saying exactly  the same thing, but seriously. He was told about the rise of the ocean, and he said, ""I find it absurd to change my behavior today for something that will happen  in a hundred years."" So if you don't care for future generations, just go for it. So one of the main challenges of our times is to reconcile three time scales: the short term of the economy, the ups and downs of the stock market, the end-of-the-year accounts; the midterm of the quality of life — what is the quality every moment of our  life, over 10 years and 20 years? — and the long term of the environment. When the environmentalists speak with economists, it's like a schizophrenic dialogue, completely incoherent. They don't speak the same language. Now, for the last 10 years, I went around the world meeting economists, scientists, neuroscientists, environmentalists, philosophers, thinkers  in the Himalayas, all over the place. It seems to me, there's only one concept that can reconcile those three time scales. It is simply having more consideration for others. If you have more consideration for others, you will have a caring economics, where finance is at the service of society and not society at the service of finance. You will not play at the casino with the resources that people have entrusted you with. If you have more consideration for others, you will make sure that you remedy inequality, that you bring some kind  of well-being within society, in education, at the workplace. Otherwise, a nation that is the most powerful and the richest but everyone is miserable, what's the point? And if you have more consideration for others, you are not going to ransack that planet that we have and at the current rate, we don't have three planets to continue that way. So the question is, okay, altruism is the answer, it's not just a novel ideal, but can it be a real, pragmatic solution? And first of all, does it exist, true altruism, or are we so selfish? So some philosophers thought we were irredeemably selfish. But are we really all just like rascals? That's good news, isn't it? Many philosophers,  like Hobbes, have said so. But not everyone looks like a rascal. Or is man a wolf for man? But this guy doesn't seem too bad. He's one of my friends in Tibet. He's very kind. So now, we love cooperation. There's no better joy  than working together, is there? And then not only humans. Then, of course, there's the struggle for life, the survival of the fittest, social Darwinism. But in evolution, cooperation — though competition exists, of course — cooperation has to be much more creative to go to increased levels of complexity. We are super-cooperators  and we should even go further. So now, on top of that, the quality of human relationships. The OECD did a survey among 10 factors, including income, everything. The first one that people said, that's the main thing for my happiness, is quality of social relationships. Not only in humans. And look at those great-grandmothers. So now, this idea  that if we go deep within, we are irredeemably selfish, this is armchair science. There is not a single sociological study, psychological study, that's ever shown that. Rather, the opposite. My friend, Daniel Batson,  spent a whole life putting people in the lab in very complex situations. And of course we are sometimes selfish, and some people more than others. But he found that systematically, no matter what, there's a significant number of people who do behave altruistically, no matter what. If you see someone deeply wounded, great suffering, you might just help out of empathic distress — you can't stand it, so it's better to help than to keep on looking at that person. So we tested all that, and in the end,  he said, clearly people can be altruistic. So that's good news. And even further, we should look at the banality of goodness. Now look at here. When we come out, we aren't  going to say, ""That's so nice. There was no fistfight while this mob  was thinking about altruism."" No, that's expected, isn't it? If there was a fistfight, we would speak of that for months. So the banality of goodness is something that doesn't attract your attention, but it exists. Now, look at this. So some psychologists said, when I tell them I run 140 humanitarian  projects in the Himalayas that give me so much joy, they said, ""Oh, I see, you work for the warm glow. That is not altruistic. You just feel good."" You think this guy, when he jumped in front of the train, he thought, ""I'm going to feel so good when this is over?"" (Laughter) But that's not the end of it. They say, well, but when you interviewed him, he said, ""I had no choice. I had to jump, of course."" He has no choice. Automatic behavior. It's neither selfish nor altruistic. No choice? Well of course, this guy's not going to think for half an hour, ""Should I give my hand? Not give my hand?"" He does it. There is a choice, but it's obvious, it's immediate. And then, also, there he had a choice. (Laughter) There are people who had choice, like Pastor André Trocmé and his wife, and the whole village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in France. For the whole Second World War, they saved 3,500 Jews, gave them shelter, brought them to Switzerland, against all odds, at the risk of their lives and those of their family. So altruism does exist. So what is altruism? It is the wish: May others be happy and find the cause of happiness. Now, empathy is the affective resonance or cognitive resonance that tells you, this person is joyful, this person suffers. But empathy alone is not sufficient. If you keep on being confronted with suffering, you might have empathic distress, burnout, so you need the greater sphere of loving-kindness. With Tania Singer at the Max Planck  Institute of Leipzig, we showed that the brain networks for empathy and loving-kindness are different. Now, that's all well done, so we got that from evolution, from maternal care, parental love, but we need to extend that. It can be extended even to other species. Now, if we want a more altruistic society, we need two things: individual change and societal change. So is individual change possible? Two thousand years of contemplative study said yes, it is. Now, 15 years of collaboration with neuroscience and epigenetics said yes, our brains change when you train in altruism. So I spent 120 hours in an MRI machine. This is the first time I went after two and a half hours. And then the result has been published in many scientific papers. It shows without ambiguity that there is structural change and functional change in the brain when you train the altruistic love. Just to give you an idea: this is the meditator at rest on the left, meditator in compassion meditation, you see all the activity, and then the control group at rest, nothing happened, in meditation, nothing happened. They have not been trained. So do you need 50,000 hours  of meditation? No, you don't. Four weeks, 20 minutes a day, of caring, mindfulness meditation already brings a structural change in the brain compared to a control group. That's only 20 minutes a day for four weeks. Even with preschoolers — Richard Davidson did that in Madison. An eight-week program: gratitude, loving- kindness, cooperation, mindful breathing. You would say,  ""Oh, they're just preschoolers."" Look after eight weeks, the pro-social behavior, that's the blue line. And then comes the ultimate scientific test, the stickers test. Before, you determine for each child who is their best friend in the class, their least favorite child, an unknown child, and the sick child, and they have to give stickers away. So before the intervention, they give most of it to their best friend. Four, five years old,  20 minutes three times a week. After the intervention, no more discrimination: the same amount of stickers to their  best friend and the least favorite child. That's something we should do in all the schools in the world. Now where do we go from there? (Applause) When the Dalai Lama heard that, he told Richard Davidson, ""You go to 10 schools, 100 schools, the U.N., the whole world."" So now where do we go from there? Individual change is possible. Now do we have to wait for an altruistic  gene to be in the human race? That will take 50,000 years, too much for the environment. Fortunately, there is the evolution of culture. Cultures, as specialists have shown, change faster than genes. That's the good news. Look, attitude towards war has dramatically changed over the years. So now individual change and cultural  change mutually fashion each other, and yes, we can achieve a more altruistic society. So where do we go from there? Myself, I will go back to the East. Now we treat 100,000 patients a year in our projects. We have 25,000 kids in school, four percent overhead. Some people say, ""Well, your stuff works in practice, but does it work in theory?"" There's always positive deviance. So I will also go back to my hermitage to find the inner resources to better serve others. But on the more global level, what can we do? We need three things. Enhancing cooperation: Cooperative learning in the school instead of competitive learning, Unconditional cooperation within corporations — there can be some competition between corporations, but not within. We need sustainable harmony. I love this term. Not sustainable growth anymore. Sustainable harmony means now we will reduce inequality. In the future, we do more with less, and we continue to grow qualitatively, not quantitatively. We need caring economics. The Homo economicus cannot deal with poverty in the midst of plenty, cannot deal with the problem of the common goods of the atmosphere, of the oceans. We need a caring economics. If you say economics should be compassionate, they say, ""That's not our job."" But if you say they don't care, that looks bad. We need local commitment, global responsibility. We need to extend altruism to the other 1.6 million species. Sentient beings  are co-citizens in this world. and we need to dare altruism. So, long live the altruistic revolution. Viva la revolución de altruismo. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我們人類行善的潛能無限，但造成傷害的力量也非常大。每種工具都可以用來建設或破壞，全都看我們的起心動念。因此，更重要的是培養利他主義的心念，而非自私自利的想法。 我們所在的這個時代確實面臨許多挑戰，可能是屬於個人的挑戰，我們的心可以成為我們最好的朋友，或是最壞的敵人。也有一些是社會上的挑戰：在富足、不平等、衝突與不正義之中的貧窮。還有一些是我們沒料到的挑戰。一萬年前，地球上大約有五百萬人。不管他們做什麼，地球都能夠快速撫平人類活動留下的痕跡。工業革命和科技革命之後，一切都不同了。現在，我們是影響地球的主因，我們進入人類世，就是人類的世代。在某種意義上，如果我們需要這種毫無止盡的成長，無止盡的使用物質資源，就會像這個人說的──出自一位前國家元首，我不說是誰──他說：「五年前，我們還在懸崖邊緣，今天我們向前走了一大步。」科學家定義這個邊緣為地球限度，這些限度包含一些要素。我們還是可以繁盛，人類還是能繁盛 150 萬年，只要我們維持氣候穩定，就像近萬年來的全新世一樣。但這得靠我們選擇自願簡樸，發展重質不重量。 你可以看到 1900 年的時候，我們仍生活在安全的限度中，到了 1950 年急遽加速。現在請暫時停止呼吸，想像接下來會如何發展。現在我們已大幅超出地球某些方面的限度了。拿生物多樣性為例，以現在的速度到了 2050 年，地球上有 30% 的物種會消失。即使我們冰存一些 DNA，也回不來了。我坐在七千公尺高，即兩萬一千呎高的不丹冰河前。人稱第三極的青藏高原上，兩千條冰河快速融化，比北極還快。 這種情況下我們能怎麼辦？雖然牽扯政治、經濟、科學的環境問題錯綜複雜，但是簡單來說，只是一個無私對上自私的問題。我是像機智喜劇演員格魯喬的馬克思主義者。（笑聲）演員格魯喬．馬克思曾說：「我何必管下一代？他們幫我做過什麼事嗎？」（笑聲）不幸的是，我也聽過億萬富翁富比士在福斯新聞上表達同樣的觀點，但他是認真的。當時他談到海平面上升，他說：「我發現現在改變行為很可笑，就為了那些百年後才會發生的事情。」如果你不關心下一代，就繼續下去吧。 我們現在最主要的挑戰就是取得這三段時期的平衡：短期的經濟，即股市漲跌、年終結算；中期的生活品質，即我們生活的每一刻、十年二十年間的生活品質如何？以及長期的環境。環保人士和經濟學者交談就像是精神分裂者的對話，完全搭不上，他們的語言不通。近十年來，我到世界各地和經濟學者、科學家、神經科學家、環保人士、哲學家和思想家在喜馬拉雅山、世界各地碰面。對我來說，似乎只有一個想法能夠取得三者的平衡，就是只要多考量別人一點就行。如果你多考量別人一點，就會有關懷的經濟學，那個時候，財政是為了幫助社會，而不是社會幫助財政。你就不會在賭場玩，賭上那些別人交付給你的財物。如果你多考量別人一點，你就會要求自己改善不平等的情況，你就會將安康帶進社會、教育和工作之中。否則在權力最大、最富有的國家裡，每個人都很悲哀有什麼意義？如果你多考量別人一點，你就不會掠奪我們共有的地球，以現在的速度繼續下去，我們可沒有三個地球來搞破壞。 問題是，好吧，利他主義是解方，不只是不切實際的理想，那麼利他主義可以是更真實、務實的解方嗎？首先，世界上真的有利他主義，還是我們真的都這麼自私嗎？某些哲學家認為我們自私得無藥可救。但難道我們真的都是無賴嗎？那還真不錯，不是嗎？許多哲學家，例如霍布斯就曾說過。但不是每個人看起來都像無賴，還是說，人都是狼心狗肺？但這個人看起來沒那麼糟，他是我的西藏朋友，很友善的人。我們喜歡合作，沒有比合作更快樂的事了，對吧？而且不只是人。當然，還是要努力求生存，社會達爾文主義下的適者生存。但是在演化上，合作，──雖然一定有競爭存在──在複雜度日漸增加的情況下要用更創新的合作方式。我們是超級合作團隊，應該走得更長遠。 在那之上是人際關係的品質。經合組織曾有一項調查針對十項因素，包含收入等等。大家說最重要，也是讓我快樂的主因，就是人際關係的品質。不只是人類。看看那些曾祖母級的長輩。有此一說，如果我們深究這個問題，就會發現我們是無藥可救的自私鬼，這是沒有實證的科學。從來沒有一份社會學研究、心理學研究做出這種結論，研究結果反而相反。我的朋友尼爾．巴特森這輩子都在實驗室裡研究各種複雜情境中的人類。當然我們有時候會自私，而且有些人特別自私。但是他發現無論如何顯然都有一群人無論如何待人都很無私。如果你看到有人傷得很重、非常痛苦，你會幫忙可能只是出於同理心窘迫，你受不了只好幫忙，而非只是坐視不管。我們做所有測試，最後他說顯然人類可以無私。這是好消息。更進一步來說，我們應該檢視日常的良善。就看看這裡吧，我們走出會場時，我們不會說：「真是太好了，只要這夥人心裡惦著無私，就沒人要打架了。」不對，本來就不會打架吧？這裡如果有人打架，我們會講這個講好幾個月。因此你不會注意日常平庸的良善，但確實存在。 請看這段影片。某些心理學家說──我告訴他們我在喜馬拉雅山做了 140 件博愛計畫讓我感到非常愉快──他們說：「噢，我知道，你是為了積功德才做。那不是無私，你只是感覺好罷了。」你想這個人跳到火車前面的時候，他會想：「一切都結束的時候我感覺超棒」嗎？（笑聲）還不只這樣，他們會說，喔，如果你和他訪談，他會說：「我別無選擇，我當然得跳。」他別無選擇自然會這麼做，和無私或博愛沒有關係。別無選擇？當然，這個人不會花半小時考慮：「我該伸出援手嗎？還是不要好了？」他會做，那就是選擇，而且顯然是立即的選擇。當然，牠也有選擇。（笑聲） 還有很多人做了選擇，牧師安德烈．卓克梅夫婦和法國樂善邦的村民也是。二次大戰從頭到尾，他們救了 3,500 位猶太人，提供他們避難處，帶他們到瑞士，排除萬難，還讓全家冒生命危險。因此利他主義真的存在。 那什麼是利他主義？那就是「願人人快樂，覓得歡喜之源」。同理是指感同身受，或是理智的反應告訴你這個人很快樂，這個人在受苦。但只有同理心還不夠。如果你不斷面對受苦之人，你可能會同理心到很苦惱、精疲力竭，因此你需要更寬廣的仁慈。萊比錫馬克斯．普朗克研究所的尼亞．辛格讓我們知道腦部同理和仁慈的神經不同。這兩項都已經發展了，我們從進化、母愛、親情中得到，但我們還需要再擴展，甚至能擴展到其他物種。 如果我們想要更無私的社會，我們需要做到兩點：個人改變與社會改變。個人有可能改變嗎？兩百年來研究冥想的結果是人有可能改變。腦神經科學和表觀遺傳學共同研究 15 年答案是肯定的，人腦在培養利他主義時會改變。我在核磁共振機裡共待了 120 小時。這是我第一次在裡面待了兩個半小時。結果刊登在許多科學論文中。研究明確顯示大腦的構造和功能會產生變化，在你培養無私的愛之際。這裡有一些資料可以參考：左邊是一位冥想者在休息，冥想者在做憐憫的冥想，你可以看到所有的腦部活動；右邊的控制組沒有任何變化，即使在冥想也沒有變化。他們沒有接受過訓練。 那麼你需要做五萬小時冥想嗎？不需要。四週，每天二十分鐘，慈愛、專注的冥想，就能在腦構造中產生變化，有別於控制組。每天只要花二十分鐘，連續四週。 即使是學齡前的孩子也是，理查德．戴維森在麥迪遜做了實驗，八週的課程包含：感謝、仁慈、合作、專注呼吸。你可能會說：「欸，他們還沒讀書，很小耶。」看看八週後，喜愛社交行為，是藍色的線。接著是孩童的終極科學試驗──貼紙試驗。一開始，你找出誰是小朋友班上最要好的同學，他們最不喜歡、不認識和反感的同學，他們要送貼紙給同學。在冥想前，他們把貼紙給最要好的朋友。四、五歲的小孩，一次二十分鐘，每週三次。練過冥想後就沒有歧視的問題了：給最好的朋友和最不喜歡的同學一樣多的貼紙。全世界的學校都應該做這件事。 那我們的下一步在哪裡？ （掌聲） 當達賴喇嘛聽到這件事，他告訴理查德．戴維森：「你再去十所、百所學校，去聯合國和全世界。」 那我們的下一步在哪裡？個人改變是有可能的。我們需要等待利他主義的基因出現在人類身上嗎？那得等上五萬年，環境等不了那麼久。幸運的是文化會演進。如專家所述，文化改變得比基因還快。真是太好了。你看，這幾年來大家對戰爭的態度已大幅改變。個人改變和文化改變會相互影響，確實，我們能進化成更無私的社會。 那我們的下一步在哪裡？我會回到東方。我們每年在計畫中治療十萬名病人，我們有兩萬五千名學童，經常費用 4%。有人說：「你的東西實際上可行，但是理論上可行嗎？」總是會有正向偏差。我也會回去修行的地方，尋找能幫助別人、更好的精神糧食。 但在全球規模上，我們能做什麼？我們需要做到三點。增加合作：在學校採用合作式學習法，取代競爭式學習法，企業內無條件合作，企業之間可以有些競爭，但是不要在企業內競爭。我們需要永續的和諧，我喜歡這個詞。不要再永續成長了。永續的和諧指的是現在我們要減少不平等。未來，我們用少數資源做更多事，我們要繼續提高品質而非數量。我們需要關懷經濟學。經濟人無法處理富足社會中的貧窮情況，無法處理共同利益、大氣和海洋的問題。我們需要關懷經濟學。如果你說經濟應該要慈悲，他們會說：「那不是我們的工作。」但如果你說不在乎，那可不太好。我們需要地方的承諾，並且全球都負起責任。我們需要將利他主義擴展到 160 萬種物種。有情眾生都是地球的公民。我們需要勇於無私。 利他主義萬歲。利他主義萬歲。（西班牙文） （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
