Talk	en	zh-tw
matt_mills_image_recognition_that_triggers_augmented_reality	So wouldn't it be amazing if our phones could see the world in the same way that we do, as we're walking around being able to point a phone at anything, and then have it actually recognize images and objects like the human brain, and then be able to pull in information from an almost infinite library of knowledge and experiences and ideas. Well, traditionally that was seen as science fiction, but now we've moved to a world where actually this has become possible. So the best way of explaining it is to just show it. What you can see over here is Tamara, who is holding my phone that's now plugged in. So let me start with this. What we have here is a painting of the great poet Rabbie Burns, and it's just a normal image, but if we now switch inputs over to the phone, running our technology, you can see effectively what Tamara's seeing on the screen, and when she points at this image, something magical happens. (Laughter) (Bagpipes) (Bagpipes) (Applause) (Bagpipes) Voice: Now simmer blinks on flowery braes ... Matt Mills: Now, what's great about this is, there's no trickery here. There's nothing done to this image. And what's great about this is the technology's actually allowing the phone to start to see and understand much like how the human brain does. Not only that, but as I move the object around, it's going to track it and overlay that content seamlessly. Again, the thing that's incredible about this is this is how advanced these devices have become. All the processing to do that was actually done on the device itself. Now, this has applications everywhere, whether in things like art in museums, like you just saw, or in the world of, say, advertising, or print journalism. So a newspaper becomes out of date as soon as it's printed. And here is this morning's newspaper, and we have some Wimbledon news, which is great. Now what we can do is point at the front of the newspaper and immediately get the bulletin. Voice: ... To the grass, and it's very important that you adapt and you, you have to be flexible, you have to be willing to change direction at a split second, and she does all that. She's won this title. MM: And that linking of the digital content to something that's physical is what we call an aura, and I'll be using that term a little bit as we go through the talk. So, what's great about this is it isn't just a faster, more convenient way to get information in the real world, but there are times when actually using this medium allows you to be able to display information in a way that was never before possible. So what I have here is a wireless router. My American colleagues have told me I've got to call it a router, so that everyone here understands — (Laughter) — but nonetheless, here is the device. So now what I can do is, rather than getting the instructions for the device online, I can simply point at it, the device is recognized, and then — Voice: Begin by plugging in the grey ADSL cable. Then connect the power. Finally, the yellow ethernet cable. Congratulations. You have now completed setup. (Laughter) MM: Awesome. Thank you. (Applause) The incredible work that made that possible was done here in the U.K. by scientists at Cambridge, and they work in our offices, and I've got a lovely picture of them here. They couldn't all be on stage, but we're going to bring their aura to the stage, so here they are. They're not very animated. (Laughter) This was the fourth take, I'm told. (Laughter) Okay. So, as we're talking about Cambridge, let's now move on to technical advancements, because since we started putting this technology on mobile phones less than 12 months ago, the speed and the processing in these devices has grown at a really phenomenal rate, and that means that I can now take cinema-quality 3D models and place them in the world around me, so I have one over here. Tamara, would you like to jump in? (Music) (Dinosaur roaring) (Laughter) MM: I should leap in. (Music) (Dinosaur roaring) (Applause) So then, after the fun, comes the more emotional side of what we do, because effectively, this technology allows you to see the world through someone's eyes, and for that person to be able to take a moment in time and effectively store it and tag it to something physical that exists in the real world. What's great about this is, the tools to do this are free. They're open, they're available to everyone within our application, and educators have really got on board with the classrooms. So we have teachers who've tagged up textbooks, teachers who've tagged up school classrooms, and a great example of this is a school in the U.K. I have a picture here from a video, and we're now going to play it. Teacher: See what happens. (Children talking) Keep going. Child: TV. (Children react) Child: Oh my God. Teacher: Now move it either side. See what happens. Move away from it and come back to it. Child: Oh, that is so cool. Teacher: And then, have you got it again? Child: Oh my God! How did you do that? Second child: It's magic. (Laughter) MM: (Laughs) So, it's not magic. It's available for everyone to do, and actually I'm going to show you how easy it is to do by doing one right now. So, as sort of — I'm told it's called a stadium wave, so we're going to start from this side of the room on the count of three, and go over to here. Tamara, are you recording? Okay, so are you all ready? One, two, three. Go! Audience: Whooooooo! MM: Fellows are really good at that. (Laughs) (Laughter) Okay. Now we're going to switch back into the Aurasma application, and what Tamara's going to do is tag that video that we just took onto my badge, so that I can remember it forever. Now, we have lots of people who are doing this already, and we've talked a little bit about the educational side. On the emotional side, we have people who've done things like send postcards and Christmas cards back to their family with little messages on them. We have people who have, for example, taken the inside of the engine bay of an old car and tagged up different components within an engine, so that if you're stuck and you want to find out more, you can point and discover the information. We're all very, very familiar with the Internet. In the last 20 years, it's really changed the way that we live and work, and the way that we see the world, and what's great is, we sort of think this is the next paradigm shift, because now we can literally take the content that we share, we discover, and that we enjoy and make it a part of the world around us. It's completely free to download this application. If you have a good Wi-Fi connection or 3G, this process is very, very quick. Oh, there we are. We can save it now. It's just going to do a tiny bit of processing to convert that image that we just took into a sort of digital fingerprint, and the great thing is, if you're a professional user, — so, a newspaper — the tools are pretty much identical to what we've just used to create this demonstration. The only difference is that you've got the ability to add in links and slightly more content. Are you now ready? Tamara Roukaerts: We're ready to go. MM: Okay. So, I'm told we're ready, which means we can now point at the image, and there you all are. MM on video: One, two, three. Go! MM: Well done. We've been Aurasma. Thank you. (Applause)	如果我們的手機也可以如同我們一樣的看這個世界難道這樣不是很棒嗎也就是說，當我們隨意拿著手機對準任何東西時讓它自己能識別影像及物體就如同人類的大腦一樣並且能夠從幾乎無止盡的知識庫中擷取資訊、體驗及概念 當然， 這在傳統上會被視為科幻小說了但現在我們已經進入一個可以使這些變為現實的世界 所以最好的說明方法就是直接來展示它這邊這位是Tamara她拿著我的已連接好的手機。讓我從這裡開始這裡我們擺了一幅偉人詩人羅伯特·伯恩斯的畫像這只是一般的影像但如果我們讓手機接收它運用我們的技術你就可以看到現在Tamara 在螢幕上所看到的東西而當她對準這幅影像時神奇的事情發生了 (笑聲)(風笛聲)(風笛聲)(掌聲)(風笛聲)聲音：百花齊放的山丘綻放著光芒 麥特·米爾斯：最棒的是這其中並沒有任何伎倆這幅影像並沒有被動手腳這項技術厲害之處在于它可以讓手機開始像人類的腦袋一樣的觀察及了解事物而且不只是這樣 當我移動物體時它也能追蹤並且順暢的疊蓋內容這又是令人驚奇的一點這些裝置變得多麼先進所有需要處理的步驟實際上都在手機上完成 現在這個應用已經被廣泛採用像是博物館裡的藝術品 如同你看到的或是廣告、印刷新聞業 當一份報紙被印出來 它馬上就過時了這裡是今早的報紙我們看到一些溫布頓的新聞，非常好我們現在能做的就是將手機對准這份報紙馬上就能得到消息 聲音：在草地上，重要的是你要靈活你必須自覺的在瞬間就改變方向她做到了 所以贏得了比賽 麥特·米爾斯：將數位內容與實體物質相連的連結我們稱之為aura我會使用持續在演講中使用這個名詞 這東西很棒的地方在于， 它不僅提供了一種更快更方便的從現實世界中獲取資訊的途徑而且它還是一種媒介讓你可以用從未有的方式顯示資訊 我手上有一台無線路由器我的美國同事說我必須叫他路由器這樣大家才會懂 —(笑聲)不管怎麼說 這就是這台設備我現在除了翻閱線上的說明手冊我還可以對準它這台裝置被辨認出來 然後 聲音：先插入灰色的 ADSL 線路然後連結電源 最後插上黃色的乙太網路線恭禧 你完成設置了 (笑聲) 麥特·米爾斯：很驚人吧 謝謝 (掌聲) 這驚人的成果是由英國劍橋的科學家使它變的可行的他們就在我們的辦公室工作我這裡有一張他們可愛的照片他們沒辦法都到台上但我們把他們的aura 帶到台上 這就是了他們不是很熱烈啊 (笑聲)跟你們說 這可是第四次拍攝 (笑聲) 好 既然我們談了劍橋讓我們接著談論一下技術進步因為我們將這技術推出到手機上 不到12個月這些裝置的運算速度成長的非常快速這代表我可以使用高畫素的3維模型並把它放在我的周圍這裡我有一個示範Tamara 你可以切進來嗎 (音樂)(恐龍吼叫聲) (笑聲)麥特·米爾斯：也許我應該躲開(音樂) (恐龍吼叫聲)(掌聲) 那麼，在娛樂之後來談一些我們工作的感覺因為這項技術讓你可以透過其它人的眼睛看世界那個人可以抓取一瞬間並且儲存、標記到某個存在真實世界中的實體最棒的是，它是免費的它是開放的 每一個人都可以使用我們的應用程式教育者已經把它帶入教室中我們看到有教師把教科書做了標記也有教師把教室做了標記英國的一間學校裡有個很棒的例子我手上有張擷取自影像的圖片 讓我們來看看 教師：看看發生了什麼 (小孩討論著) 繼續繼續 小孩：電視 (孩子們回應) 小孩：喔 天啊 教師：現在把它翻面 看看怎麼了拿開一點然後再放回來 小孩：喔 好酷 教師：然後 你把它再次放回來 小孩：喔 天啊 你怎麼做到的 另一位小孩：太神奇了 (笑聲)麥特·米爾斯：(笑聲) 當然 這不是魔術這是每個人都可以做到的現在我就要向你們展示一次其實有多麼的容易就可以做到 現在呢 我們要來個球場波浪舞我們從場內的這一側開始數到三 然後到這邊Tamara 你可以錄影嗎好 你們準備好了嗎一 二 三 開始! 聽眾：哇!! 麥特·米爾斯：會員們很在行嘛 (笑聲) 好 現在我們回到Aurasma 應用程式現在 Tamara 所要做的就是把我們剛剛所拍攝的影像標記在我的識別證上 讓我可以永遠的記住它 已經有很多人這麼做了我們剛才談了一點教育的層面在情感方面 有人寄了明信片或是聖誕節卡片給他們的家人，並附上一些信息也有人開始 譬如說拍下老汽車的內部引擎室將引擎的不同部位標記出來這樣當你的車壞了 你想找出原因你可以找到一些資訊 我們都很熟悉網際網路過去20年里它改變了我們生活及工作的方式也改變了我們看這世界的方式 很贊的是我們差不多認為這是下個範例因為我們現在可以擷取內容然後分享、重新發現、欣賞然後把它變成我們週遭的一部份下載這個應用程式是完全免費的如果你有好的 Wi-Fi 或 3G 連線這過程是非常快速的 好 我們把它儲存起來只需要一點處理時間將我們所看到的影像轉為數位指紋如果你是個專業的使用者－ 一份報紙 － 製作它的工具其實和我們剛才用到的幾乎一樣唯一的不同是你可以連結更多的內容 準備好了嗎 Tamara：準備好了 麥特·米爾斯：我們準備好了 這代表我們可以對準影像然後你們就會出現了 麥特·米爾斯：一 二 三 開始! 麥特·米爾斯：好了 這就是Aurasma 感謝你們 (掌聲)
