Talk	en	zh-tw
matt_kenyon_how_i_snuck_a_memorial_for_iraqi_civilians_into_the_us_government	"There's this quote by activist and punk rock musician Jello Biafra that I love. He says, ""Don't hate the media. Be the media."" I'm an artist. I like working with media and technology because A, I'm familiar with them and I like the power they hold. And B, I hate them and I'm terrified of the power they hold. (Laughter) I remember watching, in 2003, an interview between Fox News host Tony Snow and then-US Defense Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld. They were talking about the recent invasion of Iraq, and Rumsfeld is asked the question, ""Well, we're hear about our body counts, but we never hear about theirs, why?"" And Rumsfeld's answer is, ""Well, we don't do body counts on other people."" Right? It's estimated that between 150,000 to one million Iraqis, civilians, have died as a result of the US-led invasion in 2003. That number is in stark contrast with the 4,486 US service members who died during that same window of time. I wanted to do more than just bring awareness to this terrifying number. I wanted to create a monument for the individual civilians who died as a result of the invasion. Monuments to war, such as Maya Lin's Vietnam Memorial, are often enormous in scale. Very powerful and very one-sided. I wanted my monument to live in the world, and to circulate. I remember when I was a boy in school, my teacher assigned us this classic civics assignment where you take a sheet of paper and you write a member of your government. And we were told, if we wrote a really good letter, if we really thought about it, we would get back more than just a simple formed letter as a reply. This is my ""Notepad."" What looks like an everyday, yellow legal tablet of paper is actually a monument to the individual Iraqi civilians that died as a result of the US invasion. ""Notepad"" is an act of protest and an act of commemoration disguised as an everyday tablet of paper. The lines of the paper, when magnified, are revealed to be micro-printed text that contains the details, the names, the dates and locations of individual Iraqi civilians that died. So, for the last 5 years, I've been taking pads of this paper, tons of this stuff, and smuggling it into the stationery supplies of the United States and the Coalition governments. (Laughter) (Applause) I don't have to tell you guys this is not the place to discuss how I did that. (Laughter) But also, I've been meeting one-on-one with members and former members of the so-called Coalition of the Willing, who assisted in the invasion. And so, whenever I can, I meet with one of them, and I share the project with them. And last summer, I had the chance to meet with former United States Attorney General and Torture Memo author, Alberto Gonzales. (Video) Matt Kenyon: May I give this to you? This is a special legal tablet. It's actually part of an ongoing art project. Alberto Gonzalez: This is a special legal pad? MK: Yes. You won't believe me, but it's in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art; I'm an artist. MK: And all of the lines of the paper are actually — AG: Are they going to disappear? MK: No, they're micro-printed text that contains the names of individual Iraqi civilians who have died since the invasion of Iraq. AG: Yeah. OK. AG: Thank you. MK: Thank you. (Laughter) The way he says ""thank you"" really creeps me out. (Laughter) OK, so I'd like each of you to look under your chairs. There's an envelope. And please open it. The paper you're holding in your hand contains the details of Iraqi civilians that died as result of the invasion. I'd like you to use this paper and write a member of government. You can help to smuggle this civilian body count into government archives. Because every letter that's sent in to the government, and this is all across the world, of course — every letter that is sent in is archived, filed and recorded. Together, we can put this in the mailboxes and under the noses of people in power. Everything that's sent in eventually becomes part of the permanent archive of our government, our shared historical record. Thank you. (Applause) Tom Rielly: So, tell me Matt, how did this idea come into your head, of ""Notepad""? Matt Kenyon: I'd just finished a project that dealt with the US Coalition side of the war and it was a black armband that was called the ""Improvised Empathetic Device"" which accumulated, in real time, the names, ranks, cause of death and location of US service members who had died overseas, and each time the Department of Defense or CENTCOM released their data, it would stab me in the arm. And so, I became aware that there was a spectacle associated with our own people who were dying overseas, but a disproportionate amount of casualties were the civilian casualties. TR: Thank you so much. MK: Thank you. (Applause)"	我喜歡引用激進主義分子及朋克音樂家杰羅．比夫拉說的一句話。他說：「不要憎恨媒體，要成為媒體。」我是一個藝術家。我喜歡與媒體與科技工作。因為A：我熟悉它們，喜歡它們的力量。Ｂ：我憎恨它們，並恐懼於它們的力量。 （笑聲） 我記得在2003年看到的一個採訪，是在福克斯新聞主持人托尼．史諾與美國國防部部長［唐納德．拉姆斯菲爾德］之間進行。它們談論當時對伊拉克的入侵，拉姆斯菲爾德被問及這個問題， 「我們聽說了我方的傷亡統計，卻從來沒能得知他們的傷亡情況。這是爲什麽？」拉姆斯菲爾德回答道，「是的，我們不做對方的傷亡統計。」是麼？ 據估計15萬到100萬伊拉克平民死於2003年美國主導的入侵。這個數字與同一時期死亡的4486個武裝人員形成鮮明對比。我想做的，不僅是帶來對這個可怕數字的認識，還想為平民們創造紀念碑，為死於入侵的平民們。 對戰爭的紀念碑，比如林瓔女士的越戰退伍軍人紀念碑，總是非常巨大，非常有力量的，又是非常單方面的。我想讓我的紀念物能生存於世界上並能夠傳播。我記得當我在學校時，老師分配給我們一個經典的公民教育作業，拿一張紙，寫一封信給政府的一個成員，並且，我們被告知，如果能寫一封真正的好信，如果真正認真考慮了怎麼寫，除了正式回信，還會得到別的東西。這是我的“筆記簿”。它看起來是日常用的黃色法律筆記簿的紙張，實際上是對伊拉克平民的紀念物，他們死於美國的入侵，“筆記簿”是一個保護及紀念的行動，它被偽裝成為日常的筆記簿用紙，紙張的線條，當被放大時，則變成是微小打印的文字，有死去的伊拉克平民的詳細信息，包括名字，日期和地點。 所以，５年來，我持續填補這種紙張，使用大量原料，並偷偷將其混入美國的與聯邦政府的信紙供應處。 （笑聲） （鼓掌喝彩） 在這裡我不能告訴大家我是怎麼做的。 （笑聲） 我也單獨與【意志聯盟】的成員及前成員見面，他們支持入侵行動。 所以，不管何時只要可能，我都能碰到他們中的一個，並且與它們分享這個案子。去年夏天，我有機會碰到了前美國司法部長以及《刑訊備忘錄》的作者阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯。 （視頻）馬特．肯揚：我能給你這個嗎？這是一本特殊的法律筆記簿，實際上是正在進行的一個藝術專案的一部分。 阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯：特殊的法律筆記簿？ 馬特．肯揚：是的，也許你不相信我，它是現代藝術博物館的一個收藏品，我是藝術家。阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯：好的。 馬特．肯揚：紙上的所有線條實際上—— 阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯：它們會消失嗎？ 馬特．肯揚：不會，它們是微打印的文字，包括每個死於對伊拉克的入侵的伊拉克平民的名字。 阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯：這樣，好的。 阿爾伯托．岡薩雷斯：謝謝。馬特．肯揚：謝謝。 （笑聲） 他說謝謝的方式使我毛骨悚然。 （笑聲） 好像，大家都看看大家的椅子下面，有一個信封，請打開。你們拿在手裡的紙張，記錄了死於伊拉克入侵的伊拉克平民的詳細資訊。希望大家用這張紙，寫信給政府的某個人。大家能夠幫忙使得這個受害平民的統計資訊能夠偷偷潛入政府的檔案。因為每封寄給政府的信，涵蓋全世界的來信，都會被存檔，歸檔並標記。我們能共同把這些紙投入郵箱，擺在權力人士的面前。每一封來信最終會成為政府的永久性檔案的一部分，是我們共享的歷史記錄。 謝謝。 （掌聲喝彩） 湯姆．里利：馬特，告訴我們，你是如何產生”記錄簿“這個想法的？ 馬特．肯揚：那時我剛剛完成了一個案子是戰爭中美國聯盟方面的業務，它是一個黑色的臂章，被稱為”即時移情設備“，能實時地累計名字，等級，死因以及位置信息，死於海外的美國服役人員的，並且，每次國防部或者CENT.COM發佈他們的數據，刺痛了我們的手臂。所以，我意識到了一件驚人的事情，與我們自己人死於海外相連結的，卻是一個不成比例的平民傷亡數量。 湯姆．里利：非常感謝。 馬特．肯揚：謝謝。 (掌聲歡呼）
