Talk	en	zh-tw
maya_penn_meet_a_young_entrepreneur_cartoonist_designer_activist	"Server: May I help you, sir? Customer: Uh, let's see. Server: We have pan seared registry error sprinkled with the finest corrupted data, binary brioche, RAM sandwiches, Conficker fitters, and a scripting salad with or without polymorphic dressing, and a grilled coding kabob. Customer: I'd like a RAM sandwich and a glass of your finest Code 39. Server: Would you like any desserts, sir? Our special is tracking cookie. Customer: I'd like a batch of some zombie tracking cookies, thank you. Server: Coming right up, sir. Your food will be served shortly. (Applause) Maya Penn: I've been drawing ever since I could hold a crayon, and I've been making animated flip books since I was three years old. At that age, I also learned about what an animator was. There was a program on TV about jobs most kids don't know about. When I understood that an animator makes the cartoons I saw on TV, I immediately said, ""That's what I want to be."" I don't know if I said it mentally or out loud, but that was a greatly defining moment in my life. Animation and art has always been my first love. It was my love for technology that sparked the idea for ""Malicious Dishes."" There was a virus on my computer, and I was trying to get rid of it, and all of a sudden, I just thought, what if viruses have their own little world inside the computer? Maybe a restaurant where they meet up and do virusy things? And thus, ""Malicious Dishes"" was born. At four years old, my dad showed me how to take apart a computer and put it back together again. That started my love for technology. I built my first website myself in HTML, and I'm learning JavaScript and Python. I'm also working on an animated series called ""The Pollinators."" It's about bees and other pollinators in our environment and why they're so important. If plants aren't pollinated by the pollinators, then all creatures, including ourselves, that depend on these plants, would starve. So I decided to take these cool creatures and make a superhero team. (Applause) (Foot stomp) (Music) (Roar) Pollinator: Deforestsaurus! I should have known! I need to call on the rest of the Pollinators! (Music) Thank you. (Applause) All of my animations start with ideas, but what are ideas? Ideas can spark a movement. Ideas are opportunities and innovation. Ideas truly are what make the world go round. If it wasn't for ideas, we wouldn't be where we are now with technology, medicine, art, culture, and how we even live our lives. At eight years old, I took my ideas and started my own business called Maya's Ideas, and my nonprofit, Maya's Ideas for the Planet. (Laughter) And I make eco-friendly clothing and accessories. I'm 13 now, and although I started my business in 2008, my artistic journey started way before then. I was greatly influenced by art, and I wanted to incorporate it in everything I did, even my business. I would find different fabrics around the house, and say, ""This could be a scarf or a hat,"" and I had all these ideas for designs. I noticed when I wore my creations, people would stop me and say, ""Wow, that's really cute. Where can I get one?"" And I thought, I can start my own business. Now I didn't have any business plans at only eight years old. I only knew I wanted to make pretty creations that were safe for the environment and I wanted to give back. My mom taught me how to sew, and on my back porch, I would sit and make little headbands out of ribbon, and I would write down the names and the price of each item. I started making more items like hats, scarves and bags. Soon, my items began selling all over the world, and I had customers in Denmark, Italy, Australia, Canada and more. Now, I had a lot to learn about my business, like branding and marketing, staying engaged with my customers, and seeing what sold the most and the least. Soon, my business really started to take off. Then one day, Forbes magazine  contacted me when I was 10 years old. (Laughter) They wanted to feature me and my company in their article. Now a lot of people ask me, why is your business eco-friendly? I've had a passion for protecting the environment and its creatures since I was little. My parents taught me at an early age about giving back and being a good steward to the environment. I heard about how the dyes in some clothing or the process of even making the items was harmful to the people and the planet, so I started doing my own research, and I discovered that even after dyeing has being completed, there is a waste issue that gives a negative impact on the environment. For example, the grinding of materials, or the dumping of dried powder materials. These actions can pollute the air, making it toxic to anyone or anything that inhales it. So when I started my business, I knew two things: All of my items had to be eco-friendly, and 10 to 20 percent of the profits I made went to local and global charities and environmental organizations. (Applause) I feel I'm part of the new wave of entrepreneurs that not only seeks to have a successful business, but also a sustainable future. I feel that I can meet the needs of my customers without compromising the ability of future generations to live in a greener tomorrow. We live in a big, diverse and beautiful world, and that makes me even more passionate to save it. But it's never enough to just to get it through your heads about the things that are happening in our world. It takes to get it through your hearts, because when you get it through your heart, that is when movements are sparked. That is when opportunities and innovation are created, and that is why ideas come to life. Thank you, and peace and blessings. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Pat Mitchell: So, you heard Maya talk about the amazing parents who are behind this incredible woman. Where are they? Please, Mr. and Mrs. Penn. Would you just — Ah! (Applause)"	服務生：先生，有什麼可以幫忙嗎？顧客：嗯，我們來看一下。服務生：我們有香煎登錄檔錯誤撒上最幼細的損壞數據、二元布里歐修麵包、記憶體三明治、刻毒蟲配置、 (註：一種針對視窗作業系統的計算機蠕蟲病毒)字體沙拉和多形的沙拉醬(拌上或不拌沙拉醬均可)和烤編碼串燒。顧客：我要一份記憶體三明治、一杯你的最好編碼 39。服務生：先生，請問要什麼甜點？特色甜點是追蹤小型文字檔。顧客：我要一批殭屍追蹤小型文字檔。註：殭屍 (zombie) 為一常見雞尾酒服務生：先生，馬上來，食物馬上就送過來。(掌聲)潘瑪雅：我能握住蠟筆後就開始繪畫。自從三歲後，我已經一直製作動畫書，那時候，我也已經知道動畫製作師是什麼的工作了。電視上有個節目是關於大部分小孩子不知道的工作。當我知道電視上播的卡通片是由動畫製作師所畫時，就立即說：「這是我要做的工作。」我忘掉了這個說法是存在內心深處或大聲地說出來，但那是我生命中一個決定性的時刻。動畫和美術從來都是我的初戀對象，我對科技的喜愛激發起「惡意菜」的想法。我的電腦上有病毒，我嘗試清除它，突然間我想到，要是病毒在電腦裡也擁有它們的小小世界可怎麼樣？或者它們在餐廳相聚一起，幹些與病毒有關的事，又怎麼樣？於是「惡意菜」誕生了。四歲時，老爸向我展示了如何拆開一部電腦，然後再次組合一起，這樣便開啟了我對科技的熱愛，我用 HTML 自行建立起第一個網站，並學習 JavaScript 和 Python 程式語言，也開始做一個動畫系列名叫「授粉昆蟲」。那是關於蜜蜂和自然環境中其他授粉昆蟲，關於為何牠們是那麼重要。如果各樣植物不經由昆蟲授粉，那麼所有生物包括依賴那些植物的人類就餓壞了，所以我決定用這些很棒的角色組成一隊超級英雄團隊。(掌聲)(跺腳聲)(音樂)(大吼)授粉昆蟲：採伐森林寶貝！我該早知道！我要號召餘下的授粉昆蟲！(音樂)謝謝 (掌聲)所有動畫都是從一些想法開始。但是什麼是想法呢？想法能激發起動力。不同的想法就是各式各樣的機會和創新，想法的確讓地球繼續轉，如果沒有各式各樣的想法，我們就沒有現在的科技、醫學、藝術、文化，甚至生活方式。八歲時，我落實各樣的想法，開始了自己的一盤生意，名為瑪雅創意，以及一個非營利組織，名為瑪雅創意星球。(笑聲)我製造衣服和飾物，它們不會損害環境的。現在我 13 歲了，雖然我在 2008 年開始做生意，藝術旅程卻遠早於那時就開始。我深受藝術影響，我想把藝術融入所做的每一件事甚至生意。我在屋裡找到不同種類的纖維，並說：「這個可做成披巾或帽子。」我有設計上全部的想法，我注意到當我穿上自家創作品時，其他人會停下來對我說：「哇，真的很可愛喔，在哪裡可以找到？」然後我就想到可以開公司了。我沒有任何商業計劃書，我只有八歲，只知道我想做一些漂亮的、對環境無害的創作，我要回饋。母親教我縫紉，在我家後院，我會坐下用緞帶做些小頭飾，寫下每一件貨物的名字和價格。然後我開始製作更多產品，例如各式各樣的帽子、圍巾和手袋，產品很快在全球銷售，顧客來自丹麥、義大利、澳洲、加拿大和其它地方，現在我需要學習很多有關開店做生意的事情，例如品牌和行銷學、與不同顧客洽談、理解哪樣貨品銷路最好和最不好賣，很快我的生意真的要起飛了。然後有一天，當時我十歲， 富比士雜誌和我聯絡，(笑聲)他們要在文章中介紹我和我的公司。很多人問我，為什麼我的生意不會損害環境的？我從小對保護環境和保護各樣的生物充滿熱情，父母在我的幼年教我回饋和做一個好心的環境看守員。我聽說過一些衣物的染料或在成衣製造流程中，對人類和地球造成損壞，因此我開始進行研究，並發現即使染色完成後，廢料還對環境產生負面的影響，例如，材料的磨碾或傾倒乾粉物料，這些行動可對空氣造成污染，使任何人吸入有毒物質。所以當我開始做生意時，我注意到兩件事，我所有的產品必定不會損害環境的，而 10% 至20% 的盈餘也會捐贈到本地和全球的慈善機構和環境組織。(掌聲)我感到我也是新浪潮企業家的一分子，不止謀求擁有一家成功的企業，也為了一個可持續發展的未來。我想我能滿足顧客的需要之餘，同時讓下一代生活在更綠化的明天，我們生活在一個廣大的、多元的、美麗的世界，使我更熱情地投入保存它，但是透過你的頭腦去理解世界裡發生的事永不足夠，必須透過你的心以達到目的，因為透過你的心參與行動，動力才會被激發出來，那時候機會和新發明給創造出來，就是為什麼這些想法得以實現的理由。謝謝，願你們平安！祝福你們！(掌聲)謝謝 (掌聲)帕特．米切爾：你們已聽過瑪雅談及這個漂亮女子背後了不起的父母，他們在哪裡？請，潘先生潘太 ─ 呀！(掌聲)
