Talk	en	zh-tw
mckenna_pope_want_to_be_an_activist_start_with_your_toys	"I'm McKenna Pope. I'm 14 years old, and when I was 13, I convinced one of the largest toy companies, toymakers, in the world, Hasbro, to change the way that they marketed one of their most best-selling products. So allow me to tell you about it. So I have a brother, Gavin. When this whole shebang happened, he was four. He loved to cook. He was always getting ingredients out of the fridge and mixing them into these, needless to say, uneatable concoctions, or making invisible macaroni and cheese. He wanted to be a chef really badly. And so what better gift for a kid who wanted to be a chef than an Easy-Bake Oven. Right? I mean, we all had those when we were little. And he wanted one so badly. But then he started to realize something. In the commercials, and on the  boxes for the Easy-Bake Ovens, Hasbro marketed them specifically to girls. And the way that they did this was they would only feature girls on the boxes or in the commercials, and there would be flowery prints all over the ovens and it would be in bright pink and purple, very gender-specific colors to females, right? So it kind of was sending a message that only girls are supposed to cook; boys aren't. And this discouraged my brother a lot. He thought that he wasn't supposed to want to be a chef, because that was something that girls did. Girls cooked; boys didn't, or so was the message that Hasbro was sending. And this got me thinking, God, I wish there was a way that I could change this, that could I have my voice heard by Hasbro so I could ask them and tell them what they were doing wrong and ask them to change it. And that got me thinking about a website that I had learned about a few months prior called Change.org. Change.org is an online petition-sharing platform where you can create a petition and share it across all of these social media networks, through Facebook, through Twitter, through YouTube, through Reddit, through Tumblr, through whatever you can think of. And so I created a petition along with the YouTube video that I added to the petition basically asking Hasbro to change the way that they marketed it, in featuring boys in the commercials, on the boxes, and most of all creating them in less gender-specific colors. So this petition started to take off — humongously fast, you have no idea. I was getting interviewed by all these national news outlets and press outlets, and it was amazing. In three weeks, maybe three and a half, I had 46,000 signatures on this petition. (Applause) Thank you. So, needless to say, it was crazy. Eventually, Hasbro themselves invited me to their headquarters so they could go and unveil their new Easy-Bake Oven product to me in black, silver and blue. It was literally one of the best moments of my life. It was like ""Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory."" That thing was amazing. What I didn't realize at the time, however, was that I had become an activist, I could change something, that even as a kid, or maybe  even especially as a kid, my voice mattered, and your voice matters too. I want to let you know it's not going to be easy, and it wasn't easy for me, because I faced a lot of obstacles. People online, and sometimes even in real life, were disrespectful to me and my family, and talked about how the whole thing was a waste of time, and it really discouraged me. And actually, I have some examples, because what's better revenge than displaying their idiocy? So, let's see. From user name Liquidsore29 — interesting user names we have here— ""Disgusting liberal moms making their sons gay."" Liquidsore29, really? Really? Okay. How about from Whiteboy77AGS: ""People always need something to (female dog) about."" From Jeffrey Gutierrez: ""OMG, shut up. You just want money and attention."" So it was comments like these that really discouraged me from wanting to make change in the future because I thought, people don't care, people think it's a waste of time, and people are going to be disrespectful  to me and my family. It hurt me, and it made me think, what's the point of making change in the future? But then I started to realize something. Haters gonna hate. Come on, say it with me. One, two, three: Haters gonna hate. So let your haters hate, you know what, and make your change, because I know you can. I look out into this crowd, and I see 400 people who came out because they wanted to know how they could make a change, and I know that you can, and all of you watching at home can too because you have so much that you  can do and that you believe in, and you can trade it across all these social media, through Facebook, through Twitter, through  YouTube, through Reddit, through Tumblr, through whatever else you can think of. And you can make that change. You can take what you believe in and turn it into a cause and change it. And that spark that you've been  hearing about all day today, you can use that spark that you have within you and turn it into a fire. Thank you. (Applause)"	我叫麥肯娜·波普 今年14歲我十三歲時說服了一家超大型玩具公司世界級的玩具生產商－ 孩之寶玩具公司（Hasbro）使他們改變了其最暢銷產品的行銷策略 讓我告訴你們是怎麼一回事我有個弟弟叫嘉文這整件事情發生的時候，他才四歲他酷愛烹飪他經常從冰箱裡拿出一堆食材把它們混成一坨，不用想也知道那些東西根本不能吃要不然就假裝做一些通心粉和起司他真的很想做一名廚師因此，對這樣一個相當廚師的小孩而言有什麼禮物比簡易烤箱更合適呢，對吧？想說的是，我們小時候不都有這些玩具而且他也非常想要一個 不過不久他開始意識到在簡易烤爐廣告裡和包裝盒上面孩之寶都只專為女童設計他們是這麼做的－包裝盒和廣告裡只出現女童的形象整個烤爐上印滿了花卉圖案顏色是螢光粉和紫色都是女性的專屬顏色，對吧？所以這似乎傳遞了一個訊息：只有女孩應該烹飪，男孩不行這讓我的弟弟非常沮喪他覺得他不應該想做一個廚師因為這是女生做的職業女生可以烹飪，男生不行這就是孩之寶所傳遞的信息 這事讓我思考神啊，我祈禱我能有辦法改變這事我想讓孩之寶聽到我的想法然後我就可以詢問他們告訴他們這樣做是錯的並且請他們做修改這讓我想到一個幾月前得知得一個網站叫做Change.orgChange.org是一個線上請願共享的平台在這裡你可以發起一個請願通過各種社交網絡分享它通過臉書，推特，Youtube，Reddit，Tumblr...等網站你能想到的都可以然後發表了一個請願搭配Youtube的影片以這方式請求孩之寶改變他們的行銷策略讓男生也能出現在廣告裡和包裝盒上最重要的是設計產生過程使用更加中性的顏色 於是這項請願簽署就開始啦超乎想像地得到了大量的支持所有的全國新聞媒體和報社都來採訪我 棒透了三週到三週半的時間我就收到了4.6萬人的連署 （掌聲） 謝謝！ 不用說，這太瘋狂了最後孩之寶甚至邀請我到他們的總部向我展示了新款的簡易烤爐有黑色、銀色和藍色這絕對是我人生中最美好的一刻就像到了「查理和巧克力工廠」的電影裡頭一樣一切都太贊了 然而，那時我還沒意識到我已嚴然成為一位積極分子了我也可以做出改變就算不過是個小孩或因為是這緣故我的聲音才變得重要，所以你們的也是我想告訴大家這並不容易做到對我也並不容易因為我遭遇了很多障礙網民還有現實中的一些人對我和我的家人不尊重說這一切都在浪費時間罷了這讓我很沮喪事實上我有一些例證因為還有比展示他們愚蠢更好的反擊方式嗎？讓我們看看來自網民Liquidsore29很有趣的一個用戶名呢──「噁心的自由主義媽媽會把兒子養得超娘」Liquidsore29，你真這麼想？真的嗎？接下來是網民Whiteboy77AGS:「總得有人理這些屁事」Jeffrey Gutierrez說：「天哪，閉嘴吧。你只是想要錢和焦點！」 所以就是這樣的評論讓我在努力改變未來的路上感到很洩氣因為我感到人們不在乎這些人們認為這是在浪費時間人們會因此不尊重我和我的家人這些話傷害了我，讓我以為改變未來還有什意義呢？ 不過接著我意識到酸民就是酸民 (意思:有些人就是看什都不順眼)來吧，和我一起說。一，二，三：酸民就是酸民就隨酸民繼續「酸」下去吧依你的心思去做出改變吧因為我知道你做得到我望向人群看見400多人他們脫穎而出因為想知道如何做出改變我知道你們和電視機前的觀眾也辦得到因為你們有能力也相信辦得到而且你們能在社交媒體交流通過臉書、推特、Youtube、Reddit、Tumblr...等通過任何你想得到的就能做出想要的改變你可化自己的信念為目標為此實際付出行動並得到蛻變今天你所聽到的那點火花你能用它點燃你心中的星星之火讓它閃耀燎原之光 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
