Talk	en	zh-tw
meaghan_ramsey_why_thinking_you_re_ugly_is_bad_for_you	"This is my niece, Stella. She's just turned one and started to walk. And she's walking in that really cool way that one-year-olds do, a kind of teetering, my-body's-moving- too-fast-for-my-legs kind of way. It is absolutely gorgeous. And one of her favorite  things to do at the moment is to stare at herself in the mirror. She absolutely loves her reflection. She giggles and squeals, and gives herself these big, wet kisses. It is beautiful. Apparently, all of her friends do this and my mom tells me that I used to do this, and it got me thinking: When did I stop doing this? When is it suddenly not okay to love  the way that we look? Because apparently we don't. Ten thousand people every month google, ""Am I ugly?"" This is Faye. Faye is 13 and she  lives in Denver. And like any teenager, she just wants to  be liked and to fit in. It's Sunday night. She's getting ready for the week ahead at school. And she's slightly dreading it, and  she's a bit confused because despite her mom telling her all the time that she's beautiful, every day at school, someone tells her  that she's ugly. Because of the difference between what her mom  tells her and what her friends at school, or her peers at school are telling her, she doesn't know who to believe. So, she takes a video of herself.  She posts it to YouTube and she asks people to please leave  a comment: ""Am I pretty or am I ugly?"" Well, so far, Faye has received  over 13,000 comments. Some of them are so nasty, they don't  bear thinking about. This is an average, healthy-looking  teenage girl receiving this feedback at one of the most emotionally vulnerable times in her life. Thousands of people are posting videos like this, mostly teenage girls, reaching out in this way. But what's leading them to do this? Well, today's teenagers are rarely alone. They're under pressure to be online and available at all times, talking, messaging, liking, commenting,  sharing, posting — it never ends. Never before have we been so connected, so continuously, so instantaneously, so young. And as one mom told me, it's like there's a party in their bedroom every night. There's simply no privacy. And the social pressures that go along  with that are relentless. This always-on environment is training our kids to value themselves based on the number of likes they get and the types of comments that they receive. There's no separation between online and offline life. What's real or what isn't is really hard to tell the difference between. And it's also really hard to tell the difference  between what's authentic and what's digitally manipulated. What's a highlight in someone's life versus what's normal in the context of everyday. And where are they looking to for inspiration? Well, you can see the kinds of images that are covering the newsfeeds of girls today. Size zero models still dominate our catwalks. Airbrushing is now routine. And trends like #thinspiration, #thighgap, #bikinibridge and #proana. For those who don't know, #proana means pro-anorexia. These trends are teamed with the  stereotyping and flagrant objectification of women in today's popular culture. It is not hard to see what girls are benchmarking themselves against. But boys are not immune to this either. Aspiring to the chiseled jaw lines and ripped six packs of superhero-like sports stars and playboy music artists. But, what's the problem with all of this? Well, surely we want our kids to grow up as healthy,  well balanced individuals. But in an image-obsessed culture, we are training our kids to spend more time and mental effort on  their appearance at the expense of all of the other aspects of their identities. So, things like their relationships, the development of their physical abilities, and their studies and so on begin to suffer. Six out of 10 girls are now choosing not to do  something because they don't think they look good enough. These are not trivial activities. These are fundamental activities to their development as humans and as contributors to society and to  the workforce. Thirty-one percent, nearly one in  three teenagers, are withdrawing from classroom debate. They're failing to engage in classroom debate because they don't want to draw attention to the  way that they look. One in five are not showing up to class at all on days when they don't feel good about it. And when it comes to exams, if you don't think you look good enough, specifically if you don't think you are thin enough, you will score a lower grade point average than your peers who are not concerned with this. And this is consistent across Finland, the U.S. and China, and is true regardless of how much you actually weigh. So to be super clear, we're talking about the way you think you look, not how you actually look. Low body confidence is undermining  academic achievement. But it's also damaging health. Teenagers with low body confidence do less physical activity, eat less fruits and vegetables, partake in more unhealthy weight control practices that can lead to eating disorders. They have lower self-esteem. They're more easily influenced by people around them and they're at greater risk of depression. And we think it's for all of these reasons that they take more risks with things like alcohol and drug use; crash dieting; cosmetic surgery;  unprotected, earlier sex; and self-harm. The pursuit of the perfect body is putting pressure on our healthcare systems and costing our governments billions of  dollars every year. And we don't grow out of it. Women who think they're overweight — again, regardless of whether they are or are not — have higher rates of absenteeism. Seventeen percent of women would not show up to a job interview on a day when they weren't feeling confident about the way that they look. Have a think about what this is doing to our economy. If we could overcome this, what that opportunity looks like. Unlocking this potential is in the interest of every single one of us. But how do we do that? Well, talking, on its own, only gets you so far. It's not enough by itself. If you actually want to make a difference, you have to do something. And we've learned there are three key ways: The first is we have to educate for body confidence. We have to help our teenagers develop strategies to overcome image-related pressures and build their self-esteem. Now, the good news is that there are many programs out there available to do this. The bad news is that most of them don't work. I was shocked to learn that many well-meaning programs are inadvertently actually making the situation worse. So we need to make damn sure that the programs that our kids are receiving are not only having a positive impact, but having a lasting impact as well. And the research shows  that the best programs address six key areas: The first is the influence of family,  friends and relationships. The second is media and celebrity culture, then how to handle teasing and bullying, the way we compete and compare with one another based on looks, talking about appearance — some people call this ""body talk"" or ""fat talk"" — and finally, the foundations of respecting and looking after yourself. These six things are crucial starting points for anyone serious about delivering body-confidence education that works. An education is critical, but tackling this problem is going to require each and everyone of us to step up and be better role models for the women and girls in our own lives. Challenging the status quo of how women are seen and talked about in our own circles. It is not okay that we judge the contribution of our politicians by their haircuts or the size of their breasts, or to infer that the determination or the success of an Olympian is down  to her not being a looker. We need to start judging people by what they do, not what they look like. We can all start by taking responsibility  for the types of pictures and comments that we post on our own social networks. We can compliment people based on  their effort and their actions and not on their appearance. And let me ask you, when was the last time that you kissed a mirror? Ultimately, we need to work together as communities, as governments and as businesses to really change this culture of ours so that our kids grow up valuing their  whole selves, valuing individuality, diversity, inclusion. We need to put the people that are making a real difference on our pedestals, making a difference in the real world. Giving them the airtime, because only then will we create a different world. A world where our kids are free to become the best versions of themselves, where the way they think they look never holds them back from being who they are or achieving what they want in life. Think about what this might mean  for someone in your life. Who have you got in mind? Is it your wife? Your sister? Your daughter? Your niece? Your friend? It could just be the woman  a couple of seats away from you today. What would it mean for her if she were freed from that voice of her inner critic, nagging her to have longer legs, thinner thighs, smaller stomach, shorter feet? What could it mean for her if we overcame this and unlocked her potential in that way? Right now, our culture's obsession with image is holding us all back. But let's show our kids the truth. Let's show them that the way you look is just one part of your identity and that the truth is we love them for who they are and what they do and how they make us feel. Let's build self-esteem into our school curriculums. Let's each and every one of us change the way we talk and compare ourselves to other people. And let's work together as communities, from grassroots to governments, so that the happy little one-year-olds of today become the confident changemakers of tomorrow. Let's do this. (Applause)"	這位是我姪女史黛拉。她剛滿一歲，正開始學走路。她走得很酷，就像一般一歲兒那樣不太穩，身體總跟不上腳步。真是超級可愛。她現在最喜歡做的其中一件事就是盯著鏡子裡的自己看。她非常喜歡鏡中的自己。她會開心地大笑大叫，然後給自己又大又濕的吻。真是太美了。顯然她的同齡朋友們也會這樣做，我媽說，我小時候也是。這讓我開始思考：我從什麼時候開始不這樣做了？從什麼時候開始，我們變得不愛自己的長相？因為我們的確不愛。 每個月有一萬人會搜尋：「我很醜嗎？」這位是菲，她 13 歲，住在丹佛。跟一般青少年一樣，她只想要讓人喜歡、融入他人。某個週日晚上，她準備好迎接學校下一週的課程。她有點擔心，有點困惑，因為儘管她媽媽一直說她很美，但每天上學，還是有人說她很醜。因為她母親所說的跟她同學、朋友說的不一樣，她不知道該相信誰。所以她自拍了一段影片放到 YouTube，然後請人留言：「我漂亮還是醜？」到目前為止，菲已經收到超過 1.3 萬筆留言。有些留言壞到不值得一提。這位普通、健康的青少女在她一生中情感最脆弱的階段收到這些回覆。成千上萬人都將這樣的影片放上網，大多是青少女以這樣的方式求答案。 但他們會這麼做的原因是什麼？現在的青少年很少獨處，他們備受壓力，得經常上線、不能失聯，要能隨時聊天、傳簡訊、按讚、留言、分享、貼文，沒完沒了。我們從沒有這麼緊密相連過，這麼持續、即時、這麼青春洋溢。就像有位母親形容的，好像他們房間每天都在開趴一樣。根本毫無隱私可言。這隨之而來的社會壓力更是讓人喘不過氣。這種隨時要上線的環境把我們的孩子訓練成要以按讚數量，和留言好壞來看待自己的重要性。線上跟線下的生活根本沒有界限。什麼是真、什麼是假也令人難以辨別。也很難判斷到底什麼是真實的，什麼是經過數位修改的。一個人生活的亮點對抗日常生活的平凡。 他們要向誰尋求靈感呢？你們可看到現在女生訂閱的內容都是些什麼樣的圖片。伸展台上全是 23 腰的模特兒。修圖變成例行公事。還有像 #骨感、#大腿縫、#比基尼橋、#厭食至上。若有人不知道，#厭食至上 (proana)就是支持厭食症的意思。這些潮流與刻板印象及公然物化現代女性緊密結合。不難發現女孩們比較的基準是什麼。男孩也沒有倖免。追求輪廓鮮明的下巴線條，以及像超級英雄的運動巨星那種明顯的六塊肌，還有花花公子歌手藝人等等。 但這些現象的問題是什麼？當然，我們希望孩子健康長大，成為發展均衡的人。但充斥著這些照片的文化讓我們的孩子花越來越多時間及精力在他們的外表上，威脅到的是他們身分的所有其他層面。所以，像人際關係、體能發展，以及學習等等因此遭殃。五分之三的女生現在選擇不做某些事是因為他們覺得自己不夠好看。這些不是小事而已，是他們長大成人所需的基本活動，以後才能對社會和職場有貢獻。31%，也就是將近三分之一的青少年不參與課堂辯論。他們不參與的原因是不想要讓其他人注意到自己的長相。五分之一的學生甚至有時會蹺課，只因為覺得自己當天不夠好看。考試這一方面，如果你不滿意自己的長相，特別是如果你覺得自己不夠瘦，你的考試平均分數會比其他不介意外表的人來得低。這數據在芬蘭、美國、中國都是一致的，不管實際體重到底多少都是一樣。我要說清楚，我們講的是你自認為自己的長相如何，而不是實際長相。 對身材的低自信威脅到學業成就，但也威脅到健康。低自信的青少年做較少體育活動、吃較少蔬菜水果、參與較多不健康的體重控制活動而導致飲食失調。他們自尊心較低。他們較容易受到身邊的人影響，憂鬱的機會比較大。我們認為正是這些原因，讓他們更容易訴諸喝酒、吸毒等活動、速效減肥、整形手術、危險性行為、較早發生性行為，以及自殘。對於完美身材的追求已經對我們的醫療系統造成壓力，且耗費政府每年上百億資金。 而且我們還無法擺脫這種情況。那些認為自己過胖的女人，再說一次，不管他們是不是真的過胖，有較高的曠職率。17% 的女人會在對外表不太有自信時逃避面試。 想想看這對我們的經濟影響有多大。如果我們可以克服這問題，會創造出什麼樣的機會。釋放這種潛力是為我們每一個人的利益著想。 但我們要怎麼做？光說不練並不會造成太大的影響。這是不夠的。如果你真的想要有所改變，那就得付諸行動。我們學到有三個重要方式：第一，要教育女性對身體的自信。我們必須幫助青少女發展策略來克服與形象有關的壓力，並建立他們的自尊心。好消息是，有很多現有的計劃在做這件事。壞消息是，大多計劃都沒有用。讓我很震驚的是很多善意的計劃反而常弄巧成拙，讓情況更糟糕。所以我們一定要確保孩子們接受的計劃不只有正面影響，還要有長遠的影響。 研究顯示，最棒的計劃會涵蓋六大領域：第一：家庭、朋友、人際關係的影響。第二：媒體與名人文化，再來就是如何應付嘲笑與霸凌，我們以外貌相互競爭、比較的方式，談論外表的方式，有些人稱之為「身材之談」或「胖子之談」。最後，尊重與照顧自己這樣基本的事。這六大事項是很關鍵的起始點，讓每一位認真處理這件事的人都能建立有效的身體自信教育系統。教育是關鍵，但解決問題還需要我們每一位都站出來當更棒的模範給我們生命中的女性、女孩看。挑戰現在對於女性的觀感以及我們對於自身的評論。 這是不對的，我們不能評斷政治人物的貢獻，根據他們的髮型或是胸部的大小，也不能推斷奧運選手的決心或成功取決於她長得正不正。我們要開始以真正的貢獻來評斷別人，而非依據他們的長相。 我們可以開始對那類型的照片和自己社交網站上的留言負起責任。我們可以稱讚別人的努力以及行動，而非批評外表。 讓我問各位，你最近一次親吻鏡子是什麼時候？最終我們都需要共同合作，不管是社群、政府或是企業，都要改變我們的文化，才能讓孩子們重視自己所有的價值、珍視獨特性、多樣化以及包容力。我們需要把真正可以推動改變的人放到重要位置，並在真實世界中做出改變。讓他們有發言的時間，因為只有那時候，我們才能創造不同的世界，這世界讓孩子們可以自由做最棒的自己，他們對自己樣貌的看法不會阻礙他們成為真正的自己，或是追求自己所想要的人生。 想想這對你生命中的某個人會有什麼影響。你心中有人選嗎？是你的妻子？你的姊妹？你的女兒？你的姪女？還是你的朋友？也可能是坐在你附近的女士。這會帶給她什麼樣的意義，如果她能從內心批評，從一直告訴自己要有雙長腿、瘦大腿、小胃、小腳，這樣的想法中解脫？如果我們能克服這個困難，並釋放她的潛力，會替她帶來什麼意義？ 現在，我們的文化對於形象的著魔讓我們無法前進。但我們給孩子看看真相吧。讓他們知道，長相只不過是身分的一部分，事實是，我們很愛他們，愛他們真實的自己、愛他們所做的一切，以及他們帶給我們的感受。我們一起把建立自尊放進學校課程中。我們一起改變說話的方式、與他人比較的方式。讓我們團結合作、一起努力，從平民到政府共同攜手讓今日快樂的一歲小童，成為明日充滿自信，可以做出改變的人。一起來吧。（掌聲）
