Talk	en	zh-tw
melissa_fleming_a_boat_carrying_500_refugees_sunk_at_sea_the_story_of_two_survivors	"Every day, I listen to harrowing stories of people fleeing for their lives, across dangerous borders and unfriendly seas. But there's one story that keeps me awake at night, and it's about Doaa. A Syrian refugee, 19 years old, she was living a grinding existence in Egypt working day wages. Her dad was constantly thinking of his thriving business back in Syria that had been blown to pieces by a bomb. And the war that drove them there was still raging in its fourth year. And the community that once welcomed them there had become weary of them. And one day, men on motorcycles tried to kidnap her. Once an aspiring student thinking only of her future, now she was scared all the time. But she was also full of hope, because she was in love with a fellow Syrian refugee named Bassem. Bassem was also struggling in Egypt, and he said to Doaa, ""Let's go to Europe; seek asylum, safety. I will work, you can study — the promise of a new life."" And he asked her father for her hand in marriage. But they knew to get to Europe they had to risk their lives, traveling across the Mediterranean Sea, putting their hands in smugglers', notorious for their cruelty. And Doaa was terrified of the water. She always had been. She never learned to swim. It was August that year, and already 2,000 people had died trying to cross the Mediterranean, but Doaa knew of a friend who had made it all the way to Northern Europe, and she thought, ""Maybe we can, too."" So she asked her parents if they could go, and after a painful discussion, they consented, and Bassem paid his entire life savings — 2,500 dollars each — to the smugglers. It was a Saturday morning when the call came, and they were taken by bus to a beach, hundreds of people on the beach. They were taken then by small boats onto an old fishing boat, 500 of them crammed onto that boat, 300 below, [200] above. There were Syrians, Palestinians, Africans, Muslims and Christians, 100 children, including Sandra — little Sandra, six years old — and Masa, 18 months. There were families on that boat, crammed together shoulder to shoulder, feet to feet. Doaa was sitting with her legs crammed up to her chest, Bassem holding her hand. Day two on the water, they were sick with worry and sick to their stomachs from the rough sea. Day three, Doaa had a premonition. And she said to Bassem, ""I fear we're not going to make it. I fear the boat is going to sink."" And Bassem said to her, ""Please be patient. We will make it to Sweden, we will get married and we will have a future."" Day four, the passengers were getting agitated. They asked the captain, ""When will we get there?"" He told them to shut up, and he insulted them. He said, ""In 16 hours we will reach the shores of Italy."" They were weak and weary. Soon they saw a boat approach — a smaller boat, 10 men on board, who started shouting at them, hurling insults, throwing sticks, asking them to all disembark and get on this smaller, more unseaworthy boat. The parents were terrified for their children, and they collectively refused to disembark. So the boat sped away in anger, and a half an hour later, came back and started deliberately ramming a hole in the side of Doaa's boat, just below where she and Bassem were sitting. And she heard how they yelled, ""Let the fish eat your flesh!"" And they started laughing as the boat capsized and sank. The 300 people below deck were doomed. Doaa was holding on to the side of the boat as it sank, and watched in horror as a small child was cut to pieces by the propeller. Bassem said to her, ""Please let go, or you'll be swept in and the propeller will kill you, too."" And remember — she can't swim. But she let go and she started moving her arms and her legs, thinking, ""This is swimming."" And miraculously, Bassem found a life ring. It was one of those child's rings that they use to play in swimming pools and on calm seas. And Doaa climbed onto the ring, her arms and her legs dangling by the side. Bassem was a good swimmer, so he held her hand and tread water. Around them there were corpses. Around 100 people survived initially, and they started coming together in groups, praying for rescue. But when a day went by and no one came, some people gave up hope, and Doaa and Bassem watched as men in the distance took their life vests off and sank into the water. One man approached them with a small baby perched on his shoulder, nine months old — Malek. He was holding onto a gas canister to stay afloat, and he said to them, ""I fear I am not going to survive. I'm too weak. I don't have the courage anymore."" And he handed little Malek over to Bassem and to Doaa, and they perched her onto the life ring. So now they were three, Doaa, Bassem and little Malek. And let me take a pause in this story right here and ask the question: why do refugees like Doaa take these kinds of risks? Millions of refugees are living in exile, in limbo. They're living in countries [fleeing] from a war that has been raging for four years. Even if they wanted to return, they can't. Their homes, their businesses, their towns and their cities have been completely destroyed. This is a UNESCO World Heritage City, Homs, in Syria. So people continue to flee into neighboring countries, and we build refugee camps for them in the desert. Hundreds of thousands of people live in camps like these, and thousands and thousands more, millions, live in towns and cities. And the communities, the neighboring countries that once welcomed them with open arms and hearts are overwhelmed. There are simply not enough schools, water systems, sanitation. Even rich European countries could never handle such an influx without massive investment. The Syria war has driven almost four million people over the borders, but over seven million people are on the run inside the country. That means that over half the Syrian population has been forced to flee. Back to those neighboring countries hosting so many. They feel that the richer world has done too little to support them. And days have turned into months, months into years. A refugee's stay is supposed to be temporary. Back to Doaa and Bassem in the water. It was their second day, and Bassem was getting very weak. And now it was Doaa's turn to say to Bassem, ""My love, please hold on to hope, to our future. We will make it."" And he said to her, ""I'm sorry, my love, that I put you in this situation. I have never loved anyone as much as I love you."" And he released himself into the water, and Doaa watched as the love of her life drowned before her eyes. Later that day, a mother came up to Doaa with her small 18-month-old daughter, Masa. This was the little girl I showed you in the picture earlier, with the life vests. Her older sister Sandra had just drowned, and her mother knew she had to do everything in her power to save her daughter. And she said to Doaa, ""Please take this child. Let her be part of you. I will not survive."" And then she went away and drowned. So Doaa, the 19-year-old refugee who was terrified of the water, who couldn't swim, found herself in charge of two little baby kids. And they were thirsty and they were hungry and they were agitated, and she tried her best to amuse them, to sing to them, to say words to them from the Quran. Around them, the bodies were bloating and turning black. The sun was blazing during the day. At night, there was a cold moon and fog. It was very frightening. On the fourth day in the water, this is how Doaa probably looked on the ring with her two children. A woman came on the fourth day and approached her and asked her to take another child — a little boy, just four years old. When Doaa took the little boy and the mother drowned, she said to the sobbing child, ""She just went away to find you water and food."" But his heart soon stopped, and Doaa had to release the little boy into the water. Later that day, she looked up into the sky with hope, because she saw two planes crossing in the sky. And she waved her arms, hoping they would see her, but the planes were soon gone. But that afternoon, as the sun was going down, she saw a boat, a merchant vessel. And she said, ""Please, God, let them rescue me."" She waved her arms and she felt like she shouted for about two hours. And it had become dark, but finally the searchlights found her and they extended a rope, astonished to see a woman clutching onto two babies. They pulled them onto the boat, they got oxygen and blankets, and a Greek helicopter came to pick them up and take them to the island of Crete. But Doaa looked down and asked, ""What of Malek?"" And they told her the little baby did not survive — she drew her last breath in the boat's clinic. But Doaa was sure that as they had been pulled up onto the rescue boat, that little baby girl had been smiling. Only 11 people survived that wreck, of the 500. There was never an international investigation into what happened. There were some media reports about mass murder at sea, a terrible tragedy, but that was only for one day. And then the news cycle moved on. Meanwhile, in a pediatric hospital on Crete, little Masa was on the edge of death. She was really dehydrated. Her kidneys were failing. Her glucose levels were dangerously low. The doctors did everything in their medical power to save them, and the Greek nurses never left her side, holding her, hugging her, singing her words. My colleagues also visited and said pretty words to her in Arabic. Amazingly, little Masa survived. And soon the Greek press started reporting about the miracle baby, who had survived four days in the water without food or anything to drink, and offers to adopt her came from all over the country. And meanwhile, Doaa was in another hospital on Crete, thin, dehydrated. An Egyptian family took her into their home as soon as she was released. And soon word went around about Doaa's survival, and a phone number was published on Facebook. Messages started coming in. ""Doaa, do you know what happened to my brother? My sister? My parents? My friends? Do you know if they survived?"" One of those messages said, ""I believe you saved my little niece, Masa."" And it had this photo. This was from Masa's uncle, a Syrian refugee who had made it to Sweden with his family and also Masa's older sister. Soon, we hope, Masa will be reunited with him in Sweden, and until then, she's being cared for in a beautiful orphanage in Athens. And Doaa? Well, word went around about her survival, too. And the media wrote about this slight woman, and couldn't imagine how she could survive all this time under such conditions in that sea, and still save another life. The Academy of Athens, one of Greece's most prestigious institutions, gave her an award of bravery, and she deserves all that praise, and she deserves a second chance. But she wants to still go to Sweden. She wants to reunite with her family there. She wants to bring her mother and her father and her younger siblings away from Egypt there as well, and I believe she will succeed. She wants to become a lawyer or a politician or something that can help fight injustice. She is an extraordinary survivor. But I have to ask: what if she didn't have to take that risk? Why did she have to go through all that? Why wasn't there a legal way for her to study in Europe? Why couldn't Masa have taken an airplane to Sweden? Why couldn't Bassem have found work? Why is there no massive resettlement program for Syrian refugees, the victims of the worst war of our times? The world did this for the Vietnamese in the 1970s. Why not now? Why is there so little investment in the neighboring countries hosting so many refugees? And why, the root question, is so little being done to stop the wars, the persecution and the poverty that is driving so many people to the shores of Europe? Until these issues are resolved, people will continue to take to the seas and to seek safety and asylum. And what happens next? Well, that is largely Europe's choice. And I understand the public fears. People are worried about their security, their economies, the changes of culture. But is that more important than saving human lives? Because there is something fundamental here that I think overrides the rest, and it is about our common humanity. No person fleeing war or persecution should have to die crossing a sea to reach safety. (Applause) One thing is for sure, that no refugee would be on those dangerous boats if they could thrive where they are. And no migrant would take that dangerous journey if they had enough food for themselves and their children. And no one would put their life savings in the hands of those notorious smugglers if there was a legal way to migrate. So on behalf of little Masa and on behalf of Doaa and of Bassem and of those 500 people who drowned with them, can we make sure that they did not die in vain? Could we be inspired by what happened, and take a stand for a world in which every life matters? Thank you. (Applause)"	每天，我聽著人們為了性命而橫跨危險邊境與險惡海洋的悲慘故事其中有一個故事更讓我徹夜難眠它是有關 Doaa 的故事 她是一位十九歲敘利亞難民在埃及靠著日薪勉強度日她的父親總懷念著在敘利亞戰爭中被炸毀的蓬勃事業這個迫使他們遷到埃及的戰爭已經邁入第四年原本歡迎他們的社區開始厭倦他們有一天，一位男性機車騎士試圖綁架她曾經是一位對未來充滿希望的學生現在她天天活在驚恐之中 但她仍懷抱希望因為她愛著一位敘利亞難民 BassemBassem 也在埃及打拼他對 Doaa 說：「我們去歐洲吧！找個安全的容身之處，我工作，你讀書，一個新生活的承諾。」接著，他向她爸爸提出結婚請求， 但他們知道，要抵達歐洲他們必須冒生命危險度過地中海，任由惡名昭彰殘酷的走私者擺布，而且，Doaa 怕水。她一直都是如此，她不會游泳 時值八月，已經有二千人在嘗試橫跨地中海時喪命但 Doaa 認識一個成功抵達北歐的朋友因此她想：或許他們也做得到。於是，她向父母提出這個請求，經過一番抉擇，他們同意了，Bassem 付光畢生積蓄給走私者，每人$2,500 美金 一個星期六早上，出發的電話打來了。他們被載到海邊，那裡總共有上百人經由小船，他們全部登上一艘老舊的漁船，其中五百人擠在上方，三百人在下，五百人在上，裡頭有敘利亞人、巴勒斯坦人、非洲人、穆斯林、基督徒，一百個小孩，包含六歲大的 Sandra與十八個月大的 Masa，船上有許多家庭，每個人肩並肩腳靠腳蜷縮著，Doaa 坐著全身縮成一團，Bassem 在一旁握著她的手。 第二天，他們都憂心忡忡並因為海況險惡而暈船。 第三天，Doaa 有股莫名的焦慮，她跟 Bassem 說：「我怕我們永遠到不了，我怕船會沉。」Bassem 跟她說：「妳要有耐心，我們會到瑞典的，我們會結婚的，我們會有未來的。」 第四天，乘客們開始躁動不安，他們問船長：「還要多久才會到？」他叫他們閉嘴並辱罵他們，他說：「再十六小時我們就會抵達義大利岸邊。」人們都已疲憊飢餓不堪，不久他們看到一艘較小的船靠近，上頭有十人，開始向他們大吼、辱罵他們，向他們丟棍子、吆喝著他們全部下船並登上那艘更小，更不適合航行的船，父母們為了小孩安全而嚇壞了，他們一致拒絕下船。因此，他們很生氣地把船開走，半小時後，他們回來了，並蓄意在 Doaa 所在的船身鑿洞，正好在 Doaa 和 Bassem 所坐的位置正下方，她聽到他們是如何大喊著：「讓魚啃盡你們的肉吧！」當船翻覆沉沒時，他們開始大笑。 在甲板下的三百人注定死亡，船逐漸沉沒，Doaa 抓住船的一側，驚恐地目睹一個小孩活生生被螺旋槳撕成碎片。Bassem 向她喊道：「快放手！要不然妳也會被捲入，然後螺旋槳會殺了妳。」記住，她不會游泳。儘管如此，她仍鬆手並開始划動她的手腳。心想這就是游泳，Bassem 奇蹟似地找到一個救生圈，那是一個給小孩在游泳池，或平靜海域使用的救生圈。Doaa 爬了上去手腳掛在邊緣，Bassem 是個游泳好手因此他抓著 Doaa 的手泅水，他們四周都是屍體，大約有一百人存活下來他們開始聚集在一塊祈禱著救援。但過了一天，沒有任何人來，有些人放棄希望，Doaa 和 Bassem 看著遠方的人解開救生衣並沉入水裡自殺。 一個男人靠近他們肩膀上揹著九歲大的小孩 Malek，他抓著一個裝有氣體的罐子以保持漂浮，他向他們說：「我怕我無法活下來，我太虛弱了，我也沒有勇氣了。」他把 Malek 託付給 Bassem 和 Doaa，他們將她放在救生圈上。因此現在他們是三個人：Doaa、Bassem 和 Malek。 在這裡容我暫停一下並問一個問題，為什麼像 Doaa 一樣的難民要冒這種險？數百萬的難民被迫流離他鄉，他們為了躲避已持續四年的戰火而居住在其他國家，就算他們想回去也不行。他們家園、商業、城鎮都早已被蹂躪殆盡，這是位在敘利亞被 UNESCO 評定為世界遺產城市的霍姆斯，所以人們持續逃至鄰近國家我們在沙漠中幫他們搭建難民帳篷，數十萬的人住在這樣的帳篷，還有數百萬人住在城鎮和都市裡，這些一度熱情歡迎他們的社區與鄰國不堪負荷，沒有足夠的學校、自來水系統或公共衛生設施，就算是富有的歐洲國家，若沒有大規模投資，也無法負擔如此大量的人口湧入，敘利亞戰爭導致約四百萬人跨越邊界逃入鄰國，但還有超過七百萬人在國內逃命奔波，這意味著超過半數敘利亞人口被迫持續逃亡，現在回到這些收留許多人的鄰國，他們認為富有的國家為這些人們付出太少。就這樣，幾個月過去了，幾年過去了收留難民照理說只是暫時性的。 故事回到在水裡的 Doaa 與 Bassem。落水的第二天，Bassem 變得十分虛弱，現在反而是 Doaa 鼓勵 Bassem：「我的愛人，拜託振作點，為了我們的未來，我們可以的！」他對她說：「對不起，我的愛人，我讓妳置身如此險境，我從未愛過一人像妳如此深。」他鬆手使自己沉入水中，Doaa 眼睜睜地看著她的摯愛在她面前溺死。 不久有個媽媽帶著十八個月大的Masa 來找 Doaa，她就是稍早照片裡穿著救生衣的小女孩。她的姊姊 Sandra 剛剛溺死，她的媽媽覺得她必需盡能力所及來救她的女兒，她向 Doaa 說：「請帶著這個孩子吧，讓她成為妳的同伴，我不會活下來。」接著，她游走並結束生命。 因此，Doaa，一個十九歲怕水，並且不會游泳的敘利亞難民發現自己背負著兩個小孩的生命，他們又飢又渴、躁動不安，她盡她能力所及來安撫他們，她向他們唱歌、說古蘭經裡的句子，四周的屍體開始膨脹變黑，白日陽光刺眼，晚上冷月薄霧，景象十分駭人，落水的第四天，這大概是Doaa 和另外兩個小孩在救生圈上的樣子。 第四天，有個媽媽靠近她，並請求她再攜帶一個四歲大的男孩當 Doaa 接過這小男孩，媽媽自我了斷時，Doaa 向啜泣的男孩說：「她只是去幫你找水跟食物而已。」但不久他就沒有心跳了。Doaa 只好放手讓他沉入水裡。 不久她充滿希望望向天空，因為她看到兩架飛機飛過，她揮動雙手希望他們可以看到她，但很快地飛機飛走了。 但當天下午，當太陽開始西沉她看見一艘商船，她說：「拜託您，神啊，讓他們救我吧！」她揮舞著雙手感覺自己連續大喊兩小時，天逐漸暗去但最終搜救的燈光找到了她，他們向她拋了繩索，驚訝地發現有一個女人緊抱著兩個小孩。 他們將他們拉上船，並給他們氧氣、毯子，隨即有一架希臘直升機前來，帶他們前往克里特島， 但 Doaa 往下看並問說：「那 Malek 呢？」他們告訴她這個小孩並沒有倖存下來，她在船上診療室嚥下最後一口氣。但 Doaa 確信當他們被拉上救生艇時這個小女孩臉上帶著微笑。 在這次船難中五百名乘客中只有十一人倖存，沒有任何一個國際調查探究此次慘案的發生原因，有一些媒體報導這是一個海上大規模謀殺、慘劇，但僅僅只有一天其他新聞便隨即佔據版面， 同時，在克里特的一間兒童醫院裡Masa 正瀕臨死亡，她過度脫水，腎功能正在衰竭，葡萄糖濃度危險地低，醫生們用盡一切醫療方法急救她，護士們從未離開她身邊半步，握著她的手、抱著她、唱歌給她聽。我的同事也去拜訪她並用阿拉伯語向她說好聽的話，奇蹟似地，Masa 活下來了。 不久希臘新聞開始報導這個奇蹟寶寶，經歷四天沒水沒食物仍存活下來，來自全國想要領養她的意願如雪片般飛來， 同時，Doaa 在另一家位於克里特的醫院，骨瘦如柴、脫水當她出院時，一個埃及家庭將她帶回家照顧，不久，Doaa 存活的消息傳遍全世界，一支電話號碼被張貼在 Facebook 上，訊息開始湧入， 「 Doaa，妳知道我的兄弟姊妹父母朋友發生什麼事嗎？他們有活下來嗎？」 其中一則訊息寫著：「我相信妳救了我的姪女 Masa。」裡面附著這張她的照片。這是來自 Masa 的舅舅，一位敘利亞難民成功帶著全家逃到瑞典，Masa 的姊姊也是，我們希望，不久 Masa 可以和他在瑞典團聚，直到那之前，她都會被一家在雅典的美麗孤兒院照顧。 那麼 Doaa 呢？她的存活消息也流傳開來，媒體報導著有關這弱小的女人的新聞，無法想像她竟能在如此情況下存活下來並拯救另一個生命。雅典科學院，全希臘最著名的機構之一決定頒給她一筆勇氣獎學金，她應得那所有讚美，她也應得第二次機會，但她仍然想去瑞典，她想與在那兒的家人團聚，她想將她父母與弟弟妹妹從埃及帶至瑞典，我相信她會成功的，她想要成為一位律師或政治家，或一位可以幫助打擊不正義的人。她是一位出色的存活者。 但我必須問一個問題，倘若當初她不需要冒這個險呢？為什麼她需要經歷這一切？為什麼沒有一個合法管道可以讓她赴歐洲求學？為什麼 Masa 不能搭飛機到瑞典？為什麼 Bassem 無法找到工作？為什麼沒有大規模敘利亞難民安頓計畫來安置這些在當今最慘烈的戰火下的受難者？在 1970 年代，世界為越戰的難民而這麼做了，為什麼現在不行？為什麼只有那麼一丁點的投資給收留這麼多難民的鄰國？還有最根本的問題，為什麼那們少的心力被投入來阻止戰爭、迫害、貧窮這些迫使人們前往歐洲海岸的因素？直到這些議題都被解決前，人們仍會持續橫跨海洋尋求安全與庇護。 那麼接著會發生什麼？大致上就是歐洲的選擇了我了解大眾的恐慌，人們擔心他們的安全、經濟、文化改變，但那有比救人一命更重要嗎？因為有件根本的事情，我認為其重要性超越其他者，它有關我們的共同人道精神，沒有任何逃離戰爭或迫害的人，應該在橫渡海洋以抵達安全之處時死亡。 (掌聲) 有件可以確定的事是如果他們可以在所在之處安然度日，沒有難民會在那些危險的船上。如果他們有足夠食物給自己和小孩，沒有任何移民會冒這種險。如果有一個合法移民管道，沒有人會將畢生積蓄付給那些惡名昭彰的走私者。 因此，僅代表 Masa、Doaa、Bassem以及這五百位溺斃的人們，我們可以確定他們的死沒有白費嗎？我們可以因這件事而有所啟發並選擇世上生命皆可貴的立場嗎？ 謝謝 (掌聲)
