Talk	en	zh-tw
melissa_fleming_let_s_help_refugees_thrive_not_just_survive	"So I started working with refugees because I wanted to make a difference, and making a difference starts with telling their stories. So when I meet refugees, I always ask them questions. Who bombed your house? Who killed your son? Did the rest of your family make it out alive? How are you coping in your life in exile? But there's one question that always seems to me to be most revealing, and that is: What did you take? What was that most important thing that you had to take with you when the bombs were exploding in your town, and the armed gangs were approaching your house? A Syrian refugee boy I know told me that he didn't hesitate when his life was in imminent danger. He took his high school diploma, and later he told me why. He said, ""I took my high school diploma because my life depended on it."" And he would risk his life to get that diploma. On his way to school, he would dodge snipers. His classroom sometimes shook with the sound of bombs and shelling, and his mother told me, ""Every day, I would say to him every morning, 'Honey, please don't go to school.'"" And when he insisted, she said, ""I would hug him as if it were for the last time."" But he said to his mother, ""We're all afraid, but our determination to graduate is stronger than our fear."" But one day, the family got terrible news. Hany's aunt, his uncle and his cousin were murdered in their homes for refusing to leave their house. Their throats were slit. It was time to flee. They left that day, right away, in their car, Hany hidden in the back because they were facing checkpoints of menacing soldiers. And they would cross the border into Lebanon, where they would find peace. But they would begin a life of grueling hardship and monotony. They had no choice but to build a shack on the side of a muddy field, and this is Hany's brother Ashraf, who plays outside. And that day, they joined the biggest population of refugees in the world, in a country, Lebanon, that is tiny. It only has four million citizens, and there are one million Syrian refugees living there. There's not a town, a city or a village that is not host to Syrian refugees. This is generosity and humanity that is remarkable. Think about it this way, proportionately. It would be as if the entire population of Germany, 80 million people, would flee to the United States in just three years. Half of the entire population of Syria is now uprooted, most of them inside the country. Six and a half million people have fled for their lives. Over and well over three million people have crossed the borders and have found sanctuary in the neighboring countries, and only a small proportion, as you see, have moved on to Europe. What I find most worrying is that half of all Syrian refugees are children. I took this picture of this little girl. It was just two hours after she had arrived after a long trek from Syria into Jordan. And most troubling of all is that only 20 percent of  Syrian refugee children are in school in Lebanon. And yet, Syrian refugee children, all refugee children tell us education is the most important thing in their lives. Why? Because it allows them to think of their future rather than the nightmare of their past. It allows them to think of hope rather than hatred. I'm reminded of a recent visit I took to a Syrian refugee camp in northern Iraq, and I met this girl, and I thought, ""She's beautiful,"" and I went up to her and asked her, ""Can I take your picture?"" And she said yes, but she refused to smile. I think she couldn't, because I think she must realize that she represents a lost generation of Syrian refugee children, a generation isolated and frustrated. And yet, look at what they fled: utter destruction, buildings, industries, schools, roads, homes. Hany's home was also destroyed. This will need to be rebuilt by architects, by engineers, by electricians. Communities will need teachers and lawyers and politicians interested in reconciliation and not revenge. Shouldn't this be rebuilt by the people with the largest stake, the societies in exile, the refugees? Refugees have a lot of time to prepare for their return. You might imagine that being a refugee is just a temporary state. Well far from it. With wars going on and on, the average time a refugee will spend in exile is 17 years. Hany was into his second year in limbo when I went to visit him recently, and we conducted our entire conversation in English, which he confessed to me he learned from reading all of Dan Brown's novels and from listening to American rap. We also spent some nice moments of laughter and fun with his beloved brother Ashraf. But I'll never forget what he told me when we ended our conversation that day. He said to me, ""If I am not a student, I am nothing."" Hany is one of 50 million people uprooted in this world today. Never since World War II have so many people been forcibly displaced. So while we're making sweeping progress in human health, in technology, in education and design, we are doing dangerously little to help the victims and we are doing far too little to stop and prevent the wars that are driving them from their homes. And there are more and more victims. Every day, on average, by the end of this day, 32,000 people will be forcibly displaced from their homes — 32,000 people. They flee across borders like this one. We captured this on the Syrian border to Jordan, and this is a typical day. Or they flee on unseaworthy and overcrowded boats, risking their lives in this case just to reach safety in Europe. This Syrian young man survived one of these boats that capsized — most of the people drowned — and he told us, ""Syrians are just looking for a quiet place where nobody hurts you, where nobody humiliates you, and where nobody kills you."" Well, I think that should be the minimum. How about a place of healing, of learning, and even opportunity? Americans and Europeans have the impression that proportionally huge numbers of refugees are coming to their country, but the reality is that 86 percent, the vast majority of refugees, are living in the developing world, in countries struggling with their own insecurity, with their own issues of helping their own populations and poverty. So wealthy countries in the world should recognize the humanity and the generosity of the countries that are hosting so many refugees. And all countries should make sure that no one fleeing war and persecution arrives at a closed border. (Applause) Thank you. But there is something more that we can do than just simply helping refugees survive. We can help them thrive. We should think of refugee camps and communities as more than just temporary population centers where people languish waiting for the war to end. Rather, as centers of excellence, where refugees can triumph over their trauma and train for the day that they can go home as agents of positive change and social transformation. It makes so much sense, but I'm reminded of the terrible war in Somalia that has been raging on for 22 years. And imagine living in this camp. I visited this camp. It's in Djibouti, neighboring Somalia, and it was so remote that we had to take a helicopter to fly there. It was dusty and it was terribly hot. And we went to visit a school and started talking to the children, and then I saw this girl across the room who looked to me to be the same age as my own daughter, and I went up and talked to her. And I asked her the questions that grown-ups ask kids, like, ""What is your favorite subject?"" and, ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" And this is when her face turned blank, and she said to me, ""I have no future. My schooling days are over."" And I thought, there must be some misunderstanding, so I turned to my colleague and she confirmed to me there is no funding for secondary education in this camp. And how I wished at that moment that I could say to her, ""We will build you a school."" And I also thought, what a waste. She should be and she is the future of Somalia. A boy named Jacob Atem had a different chance, but not before he experienced terribly tragedy. He watched — this is in Sudan — as his village — he was only seven years old — burned to the ground, and he learned that his mother and his father and his entire family were killed that day. Only his cousin survived, and the two of them walked for seven months — this is boys like him — chased and pursued by wild animals and armed gangs, and they finally made it to refugee camps where they found safety, and he would spend the next seven years in Kenya in a refugee camp. But his life changed when he got the chance to be resettled to the United States, and he found love in a foster family and he was able to go to school, and he wanted me to share with you this proud moment when he graduated from university. (Applause) I spoke to him on Skype the other day, and he was in his new university in Florida pursuing his Ph.D. in public health, and he proudly told me how he was able to raise enough funds from the American public to establish a health clinic back in his village back home. So I want to take you back to Hany. When I told him I was going to have the chance to speak to you here on the TED stage, he allowed me to read you a poem that he sent in an email to me. He wrote: ""I miss myself, my friends, times of reading novels or writing poems, birds and tea in the morning. My room, my books, myself, and everything that was making me smile. Oh, oh, I had so many dreams that were about to be realized."" So here is my point: Not investing in refugees is a huge missed opportunity. Leave them abandoned, and they risk exploitation and abuse, and leave them unskilled and uneducated, and delay by years the return to peace and prosperity in their countries. I believe how we treat the uprooted will shape the future of our world. The victims of war can hold the keys to lasting peace, and it's the refugees who can stop the cycle of violence. Hany is at a tipping point. We would love to help him go to university and to become an engineer, but our funds are prioritized for the basics in life: tents and blankets and mattresses and kitchen sets, food rations and a bit of medicine. University is a luxury. But leave him to languish in this muddy field, and he will become a member of a lost generation. Hany's story is a tragedy, but it doesn't have to end that way. Thank you. (Applause)"	我開始跟難民一起工作，因為我想改變現狀。改變現狀要從述說他們的故事開始。所以當我見到難民時，我經常會問他們一些問題。誰炸毀了你的房子？誰殺死了你的兒子？你的其他家人生存下來了嗎？你怎麼應對流亡的日子？但是有一個問題總是讓我有所啟示。那就是：你拿了什麽？你身邊哪一件最重要的東西是你必須帶走的？當炸彈正在摧毀你的村莊，武裝分子向你的房間一步步靠近時，你會選擇帶走什麼？ 我認識的一個敘利亞男孩告訴我，他毫不猶豫地在他生命最危急的時刻，拿起了他的高中畢業證書。然後他告訴我原因：「我之所以去拿證書，是因為我的生活都要依靠這份高中畢業證書。」他願意冒著生命危險去拿證書。在他去學校的路上，要躲避狙擊手的視線，他的教室時常會被炸彈聲波所撼動。他的母親曾對我說：「每天早晨我都會對他說：『寶貝，求你不要去學校了。』」但當他依然堅持時，她說：「我會緊緊的擁抱他，猶如這是最後一次機會。」但他對他的母親說：「我們都會害怕，但我們完成學業的決心會戰勝這種恐懼。」 然而有一天，他的家庭得到噩耗。翰尼的舅舅、舅媽和表兄妹在自己家裡被謀殺了，因為他們拒絕離開自己的家園。他們的喉嚨被割斷了。逃亡從那時開始了。 那天他們開著車離開，漢尼藏在後車廂中，因為前方就是兇殘士兵的檢查站。他們需要穿過邊境去黎巴嫩，在那裡，他們能過上平靜的生活。但是他們也會開始一段充滿了艱辛與乏味的生活。他們唯一的選擇就是在泥地旁建一個棚屋。照片中在玩耍的小孩是漢尼的弟弟艾許哈夫。 也就是在那天，他們加入了全球最大的難民群體。在小國黎巴嫩，只有四百萬公民，然而卻有一百萬敘利亞難民居住於此。那裡的每一個城鎮、城市和村莊都向叙利亞難民敞開大門。這種慷慨與人性是何等的驚人！我們可以換一種方式描述。這猶如德國的全部人口，八千萬人，在三年內全部逃離到美國。敘利亞一半的人口現在無家可歸，大部分都還在敘利亞國境內。六百五十萬人為了生存而流亡。超過三百萬人越過了邊境，在鄰國找到了避難所；只有一小部分人逃離到了歐洲。最令我擔憂的一件事是，敘利亞難民中一半都是兒童。我為這個小女孩拍了一張照。當時她剛經歷了從叙利亞到約旦兩小時的長途跋涉。 最令人困擾的事是，只有五分之一的叙利亞難民兒童在黎巴嫩的學校中讀書。然而，所有的敘利亞難民兒童，所有難民兒童都告訴我們教育是他們生命中最重要的事。為什麼？ 因為教育可以讓他們展望未來，而不是他們所歷經的噩夢；教育能讓他們充滿希望，摒棄憎恨。 我想起我最近在伊拉克北部拜訪過的一個敘利亞難民營地。當時我遇到這個女孩，我心想，「她很漂亮。」我走近問她，「我能不能幫你拍照？」她說好，但拒絕微笑。我覺得是她做不到，因為我認為她應該意識到，她所代表的是叙利亞兒童難民中迷失的一代。這是沮喪的，被隔離的一代。看看他們所逃離的地方：完全毀滅。建築、工廠、學校、公路、住宅。漢尼的家也被摧毀了。這些都需要由建築師、工程師、電氣工人重建。社區需要老師、律師和希望調解衝突，而不是那些一心要報復的政治家。這些難道不應該由身處危急中的人和流離失所的難民來完成嗎？ 難民有充分的時間來為回歸祖國做準備。你可能認為難民的現狀只是短暫的，遠遠不止於此。戰爭依舊繼續。難民流亡的平均時間是十七年。這是漢尼處在地獄邊緣的第二年。我當時去看過他，我們整個交談過程都用英語。他跟我說他的英文是從閱讀丹•布朗所有的小說和聽美國饒舌樂學來的。我們和他摯愛的弟弟艾許哈夫度過了快樂的時光。但我永遠不能忘記他在談話結束時跟我說的話。他跟我說：「如果沒機會學習，我真的一無所有了。」 漢尼是當今五千萬無家可歸的人當中的一個。自從第二次世界大戰後，再也沒有哪個時期有這麽多人背井離鄉。當我們在健康、科技、教育和設計領域取得巨大進步時，我們對受迫害者的幫助卻很少。為阻止讓他們背井離鄉的戰爭，我們所做的也太微不足道了。 這樣的受害者正變得越來越多。到今日為止，平均每一天有32,000 人被迫遠走他鄉。32,000 人啊！他們穿過這樣的邊境，我們在敘利亞和約旦的邊境拍攝下這個片段。這是很典型的一天。他們坐上超載的危船，冒著生命危險，只為逃離到歐洲。這個敘利亞年輕人從傾覆的船中逃了出來，而船上大部分人都淹死了。他告訴我們：「叙利亞人只是想到一個寧靜的地方，那裡沒有傷害，沒有羞辱，沒有殺戮。」我認為這是最基本的要求。更不要說一個提供治療、學習、甚至機會的地方。美國人和歐洲人都有這種感覺，大量的難民正逃往他們的國家。事實上是，86% 的難民，即大部分的難民正生活在發展中國家，那些自身也不安全的國家，那些對處理自己的人口和窮人有困難的國家。所以富裕的國家需要認識到，這些國家收留難民的慷慨與人性。所有國家都必須對那些逃離戰事和迫害的人敞開國門。 （掌聲） 謝謝大家。 然而我們可以做得更好。不僅僅是幫助難民們生存下來，而且要讓他們實現自我發展。我們需要建設更多的難民營和社區，而不是臨時的人口中心，讓人喪失活力，在那兒無所事事地等待戰爭結束。如果建設卓越中心，我們可以幫助難民戰勝過去陰影讓他們學習技能，將來為祖國打一針強心劑，並且帶來社會改革。 這樣做會很有意義。我想起了在索馬利亞爆發的一場戰爭。戰爭的怒火持續了二十二年，想像一下你住在這個營地。我去過這個地方。它處在索馬利亞附近的吉布提，因為實在太偏遠，我們當時必須搭直升機才能到達那裡。那裡到處彌漫著沙塵，十分炎熱。我們去參觀了一個學校，並且與那裡的孩子交談。在房子的對面我看到了這個盯著我看的女孩，她的年齡跟我女兒差不多。我走近跟她聊天。我問了她一些通常大人會問的問題，比如「你最喜歡哪一門課？」「你長大後想做什麼？」這時她的臉馬上垮了下來。她對我說：「我沒有未來。我上學的日子已經結束了。」我覺得這其中可能有些誤會，我轉過頭詢問同事，她說這是真的。在這裡他們沒有足夠的資金支付初中的費用。我多麼希望當時能夠跟她承諾：「我們會為你建造一所學校。」這是多麼可惜的一件事。她應該是，也的確是索馬利亞未來的希望。 有一個叫雅各·阿坦的男孩，他在經歷一場災難後有了與這女孩不同的機會。他目睹在蘇丹的家園被付之一炬，化為廢墟，而那時他只有七歲。他絕望地意識到，母親、父親和其他所有家人都已經離他而去。只有他和表弟僥幸逃過一劫。兩人跋山涉水，歷經七月，像他這樣的男孩，就這樣躲過饑腸轆轆的野獸和窮追猛打的武裝分子，終於到達難民營，尋得暫時的安寧。他未來七年，很可能在肯亞難民營度過。 但命運之神再次眷顧，他後來被美國家庭收養，到美國安頓、發展，重新覓得愛與關懷，也恢復了學業。他請我與各位分享這個讓他倍感自豪的難忘時刻：他的大學畢業典禮。 （掌聲） 上次我在 Skype 上與他聊天，他當時在佛羅里達州一所新大學攻讀公共衛生學博士，他不無自豪地談到，他如何千方百計地從美國社會各界籌集到足夠資金，並計劃用這些錢為千里之外的家鄉建設一所衛生所。 讓我們再回到漢尼的故事。他得知我要到 TED 來與各位分享我的經歷和感悟，想請我朗誦他用電子郵件寄來的一首小詩。 他寫道，「我懷念曾經的自己、朋友，沉迷小說和舞文弄墨的那段時光，以及清晨那第一聲鳥鳴和第一縷茶香。小屋裡書籍成排，我悠然自在，那一切，曾讓我滿足和愜意。喔，我曾有無數的夢想，只是，未待實現，就已凋零。」 最後，我想再强調一下我的觀點：如果現在不對難民的福利和發展進行投入，錯失這一良機的損失將難以估量。聽其自然，疏於管理，他們可能面臨剝削和虐待；聽之任之，不施教導，他們祖國重返安定與繁榮就遙遙無期。我相信，如何對待背井離鄉、流離失所的難民决定了未來世界的發展和面貌。因為，正是戰爭的受害者手握著開啓和平之門的鑰匙，也只有難民才能阻止暴力的惡性循環。 漢尼的故事給了我們深刻的啓發。雖然，我們願意幫助他完成學業、實現工程師的夢想，但是我們的資金優先用於保障生活的基本需求：帳篷、毛毯、床墊、厨房用具、難民口糧和必備藥品。大學深造不是當務之急。但是，放任他在泥淖中淪落頽廢，一敗塗地，總有一天他也會成為迷失一代中的一員。漢尼的故事聽來令人惋惜，但現在行動，也許為時未晚。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
