Talk	en	zh-tw
melvin_russell_i_love_being_a_police_officer_but_we_need_reform	"I have been a police officer for a very, very long time. And you see these notes in my hand because I'm also a black preacher. (Laughter) And if you know anything about black preachers, we'll close, and then we'll keep going for another 20 minutes. (Laughter) So I need this to keep pushing this thing forward. I've been a police officer for a very long time, and I mean I predated technology. I'm talking about before pagers. (Laughter) Laugh if you want to, but I'm telling the truth. I predate War on Our Fellow Man — I mean, War on Drugs. I predate all of that. I predate so much and I've been through ebbs and flows and I've been through good and bad times, and still I absolutely love being a police officer. I love being a police officer because it's always been a calling for me and never a job. And even with that, my personal truth is that law enforcement is in a crisis. It's an invisible crisis, and it has been for many, many years. Even though we in law enforcement say, ""You know what? We can't arrest our way out of this."" We say in law enforcement things like, ""Yeah, it's illegal to profile."" You know what? In law enforcement, we even agree that we have to adopt this thinking and become more oriented to community policing. And yet all the while, still, we continue in the same vein, the same vein that contradicts everything that we just admitted. And so that's the reason for me, several years ago. Because I was tired of the racism, I was tired of discrimination, I was tired of the ""-isms"" and the schisms. I was just so tired. I was tired of the vicious cycle, and I was tired of it even in the beloved agency in the department that I still love today. And so my wife and I, we sat down and we decided and we targeted a date that we would retire. We would retire and I would go off into the sunset, maybe do ministry full time, love my wife a long time. Y'all know what I'm talking about. (Laughter) But we decided that I would retire. But then there was a higher power than I. There was a love for the city that I loved, that I grew up in, that I was educated in — a city that pulled my heart back into the system. So we didn't retire. We didn't retire and so what happened was, over the next — I would say, 18 months, 19 months, I had this passion to implement some radical policing. And so now, over the next 19 months, I shifted, and I transcended from being a drug sergeant — ready to retire as a drug sergeant — and went from level to level to level, until I find myself as a district commander, commander of the worst district in Baltimore city. We call it the Eastern District, the most violent district, the most impoverished district — 46 percent unemployment in that district. National rating at that time, national rating, the AIDS and the tuberculosis [rating], was always on the top 10 list for zip codes for cities across the nation, or just zip codes across the nation. The top 10 — I didn't say state, I didn't say city — that little neighborhood. And I said, you know what? We gotta do something different. We gotta do something different. We gotta think radical. We gotta think outside the box. And so in order to bring change that I desperately wanted and I desperately felt in my heart, I had to start listening to that inner spirit. I had to start listening to that man on the inside that went against everything that I had been trained to do. But we still did it. We still did it because we listened to that inner spirit, because I realized this: if I was to see real police reform in the communities that I had authority over for public safety, we had to change our stinkin' thinkin'. We had to change it. And so what we did is we started to think holistically and not paramilitarily. So we thought differently. And we started to realize that it could never be and never should have been us versus them. And so I decided to come to that intersection where I could meet all classes, all races, all creeds, all colors; where I would meet the businesses and the faith-based, and the eds, the meds, and I would meet all the people that made up the communities that I had authority over. So I met them and I began to listen. See, police have a problem. Off the top, we want to bring things into the community and come up with these extravagant strategies and deployments, but we never talk to the community about them. And we shove them into the community and say, ""Take that."" But we said we'd get rid of that stinkin' thinkin', so we talked to our communities. We said, ""This is your community table. We'll pull up a chair. We want to hear from you. What's going to work in your community?"" And then some great things started to happen. See, here's the thing: I had to figure out a way to shift 130 cops that were under my tutelage from being occupiers of communities to being partners. I had to figure out how to do that. Because here's the crazy thing: in law enforcement, we have evolved into something incredible. Listen, we have become great protectors. We know how to protect you. But we have exercised that arm so much, so very much. If I was a natural police department and I represented a police department, you would see this incredible, beautiful, 23-inch arm. (Laughter) It's pretty, ain't it? It's cut up. No fat on it. Mmm it look good. It just look good! (Laughter) That's a great arm — protection! That's who we are, but we've exercised it so much sometimes that it has led to abuse. It's led to coldness and callousness and dehumanized us. And we've forgotten the mantra across this nation is to protect and serve. Y'all don't know that? Protect and serve. (Laughter) So you look at the other arm, and then you look at it and ... there it is. (Laughter) You know, it's kinda weak. It looks sickly. It's withering and it's dying because we've invested so much in our protective arm. But we forgot to treat our communities like they're our customers; like they're our sons and daughters, our brothers and sisters, our mothers and fathers. And so somehow, along the way, we've gotten out of balance. And because we are a proud profession, it is very hard for us to look in the mirror and see our mistakes. It's even harder to make a change. And so, as I try to hurry and get through this, I need to say this: it's not just law enforcement, though. Because every one of us makes up a community. Everybody makes up a community. And as communities — can I say this? — we have put too much responsibility on law enforcement. Too much. (Applause) And then we have the audacity and the nerve to get upset with law enforcement when we take action. There is no way in the world that we, as a community, should be calling the police for kids playing ball in the street. No way in the world that we should be calling the police because my neighbor's music is up too loud, because his dog came over to my yard and did a number two; there's no way we should be calling the police. But we have surrendered so much of our responsibility. Listen, when I was a little boy coming up in Baltimore — and listen, we played rough in the street — I ain't never see the police come and break us up. You know who came? It was the elders. It was the parental figures in the community. It was those guardians, it was that village mentality. They came and said, ""Stop that!"" and ""Do this."" and ""Stop that."" We had mentors throughout all of the community. So it takes all of us, all of us. And when I say community, I'm talking about everything that makes up a community, even — listen, because I'm a preacher, I'm very hard on the churches, because I believe the churches too often have become MIA, missing in action. I believe they have shifted over the last 10, 20 years from being community churches, where you walk outside your door, round the corner and you're in church. They shifted from that and became commuter churches. So you now have churches who have become disconnected by default from the very community where they're planted. And they don't take care of that community. I could go on and on, but I really need to wrap this up. Community and policing: we've all lost that precious gift, and I call it relational equity. We've lost it with one another. It's not somebody else's fault — it's all of our fault. We all take responsibility in this. But I say this: it's not too late for all of us to build our cities and nation to make it great again. It is never too late. It is never too late. You see, after three years of my four-and-a-half-year commandship in that district, three years in, after putting pastors in the car with my police because I knew this — it's a little secret — I knew this: it was hard to stay a nasty police officer while you're riding around with a clergy. (Laughter) (Applause) You'd be getting in and out of the car, looking to your right, talking about: ""Father, forgive me, for I have sinned,"" all day long — you can't do it! So we came up with some incredible initiatives, engagements for our community and police to build that trust back. We began to deal with our youth and with those who we consider are on the wrong side of the fence. We knew we had an economic problem, so we began to create jobs. We knew there was sickness in our community and they didn't have access to proper medical care, so we'd partner up. We got to that intersection and partnered up with anybody that wanted to partner with us and talked about what we needed holistically, never thinking about the crime. Because at the end of the day, if we took care of the needs of the people, if we got to the root cause, the crime would take care of itself. It would take care of itself. (Applause) And so, after three years of a four-and-a-half-year stint, we looked back and we looked over and found out that we were at a 40-year historical low: our crime numbers, our homicides — everything had dropped down, back to the 1970s. And it might go back further, but the problem is, we only started keeping data since 1970. Forty-year crime low, so much so, I had other commanders call me, ""Hey Mel, whatcha doin', man? Whatcha doin'? We gotta get some of that!"" (Laughter) And so we gave them some of that. And in a short period of time, the city went to a 30-year crime low. For the first time in 30 years, we fell, Baltimore city, to under 200 homicides — 197 to be exact. And we celebrated, because we had learned to become great servers, become great servers first. But I gotta tell you this: these last few years, as much as we had learned to become great proactive police officers and great relational police officers rather than reactive, these last years have disappointed me. They have broken my heart. The uprising still hurts. It still hurts my heart, because truly I believe that it should've never happened. I believe it should've never happened if we were allowed to continue along the vein that we were in, servicing our community, treating them like human beings, treating them with respect, loving on them first. If we continued in that vein, it would've never happened. But somehow, we went back to business as usual. But I'm excited again! I'm excited again, because now we have a police commissioner who not only talks about community policing, but he absolutely understands it, and more importantly, he embraces it. So I'm very excited now. Listen, I'm excited about Baltimore today, because we, as many cities, I believe shall rise from the ashes. I believe — I truly believe — (Applause) that we will be great again. I believe, as we continue to wrap arms and continue to say, ""We're in this together,"" because it's not just an intersection: once we meet, we now gotta get on the same path for the same goals, and this city will become great again. This nation will become great again. Because we have the same goal: we all want peace. We all want respect for one another. We all want love. And I believe we are back on that road, and I'm so excited about it. So listen, I thank you for giving me a few minutes of your time. God bless you all. (Applause) God bless you. (Applause)"	我當警官，當了很長很長的時間。而你會看到我手上有筆記，因為我也是一位黑人傳道者。 (笑聲) 如果你瞭解黑人傳道者，我們說畢後，還會再繼續另外二十分鐘。 (笑聲) 所以我需要這筆記提促我說下去。我當警官，當了很長很長的時間。我指更早於有科技以前。我在說有傳呼機以前。 (笑聲) 如果你想，盡情笑吧，我只是要說明真相比起我們伙伴的戰事，我更早已是一位警官，我指對抗毒品禍害的戰事對比起所有的這些，我更早對比起，我真的遠遠地更早我經歷過起落我經歷過好壞時光至今我仍義無反顧地鍾愛成為一位警官我鍾愛成為一位警官從來都是一份感召不曾是一份工作 縱使如此我個人仍然相信法律的執行現處於危機那是看不見的危機已存在很多很多年我們在執法機構尚且這樣說，“你知道嗎？我們不能作出如此的逮捕。”我們在執法機構這樣說，“是的，這樣落案是非法的。”你知道嗎？在執法機構，我們甚至同意這樣的想法更傾向於作出社區的監察。如是者，仍然我們繼續因循縱使因循違悖於我們承認的一切 這導致我數年前作出了一個决定。因為我已疲於種族主義、疲於歧視我已疲於各類“主義”及分裂。我是多麼疲累。我厭倦了惡毒的循環不息，我甚至厭倦了我最愛的機構厭倦了我至今仍然鍾愛的部門。所以妻子和我，我倆坐下來我們決定了一個目標日期退休。我們會退休而我會看日落或許全職傳道，愛我妻子恒久。你們都懂我在說些什麼。 (笑聲) 終究我們決定了我會退休。但存在了一種比我更宏大的力量。那是對這個城市的愛一個我愛於斯、長於斯、育於斯的這個城市，重新讓我投心於系統裏。所以我們沒有退休我們沒有退休其後發生的是其後十八個月、十九個月發生的是我有份熱誠去實踐一些激進的監察，這樣下來經過了十九個月，我轉型，從一位專責毒品的沙展，作好準備成為一位退休的專責毒品的沙展，尋覓一層又逾一層的階級，直到我成為了一位區域指揮官，在巴爾的摩內最惡劣的區域當指揮官。我們稱之為東區，最暴力的區域，最貧窮的區域百分之四十六的失業率的區域。當時按就全國的排行榜上，在全國的排行榜上，愛滋病和肺癆的排行總是在頭十位之內在全國城市的郵政編碼或只是全國的郵政編碼在頭十位之內，我已經沒有提及州，沒有提及城市東區這個小鄰社。 我說，你知道嗎？我們得做出大不同。我們得做出大不同。我們得激進地想。我們得出奇制勝。所以為了能夠帶出我矢志要得到的改變，我由衷的感覺到我需要聆聽著內心的呼喚我需要開始聆聽著內心自我的呼喚抗衡被馴服於命的那一個自我。 我們成功了。我們成功了因為我們聆聽內心自我的呼喚，因為我意識到，如果要真正看到警察的改良，在我有權力監察公共安全的區域，我們需要改變迂腐的想法。 我們必定需要改變。所以我們開始綜合地思考而非軍事式我們的思考來的大不同。我們開始體會從來不該也從此不該區劃出我們和他們。所以我決定要來到了那一個交滙處，在那處我可以遇到所有的階層、所有的種族、所有的教義、和所有的膚色的同仁，在那處我可以遇到商人、信徒教者、醫者，我可以接觸到所有的人都是組成了這個社區的人，而我有保護著他們的權力。所以我接觸他們和開始聆聽。 你看，警察人員常常會有這個問題。高高在上的我們，會想為社區謀福祉堆砌出鋪張的策略和部署。但我們從來沒有和社區的居民好好的傾談。我們會把他們推到社區，然後說：「就這樣吧。」明明我們才說過要改變迂腐的想法。所以我們和社區的居民傾談。我們說：「這是你們的社區圓桌。我們拉來了椅子。我們想聆聽你們的意見。有什麼可以造就這個社區?」這樣下來一些好的事物開始呈現。你看，這包括了： 我得想出一個法子，把自己管轄的一百三十位警察從社區的佔據者化身成為了夥伴我得想出一個法子造就這項任務。因為這是瘋狂的：在執法單位，我們演化得不可思議。聽著，我們演化成為了偉大的守護者我們懂得如何守護你們而我們已過於習慣了守護你們的那一環如果我本人就是警察部門我代表了警察部門,你們會看到了這不能置信的、美麗的，廿三吋的臂彎 （笑聲） 這很漂亮，對不？很堅實的。沒半點脂肪。很好看。煞是好看！ （笑聲） 那是強壯的臂彎，一種保護！那就是我們了，正正因為太過於保護會過了火。變成了冷漠無情，沒有人情味我們甚至忘記了我們國家的座右銘乃保衛和服務你們難道不知道嗎？保衛和服務 （笑聲） 所以當你看到另外一邊的臂彎，再看清楚...... 就是這邊。 （笑聲） 你看，有些柔弱看起來痠軟有些萎凋，甚至垂死就是因為我們太過着重於保護忘記了好好地看待我們的社區待他們如我們的客人待他們如我們的子女和兄弟姐妹如我們的父母親所以在期間，偶之我們失去了平衡。我們是很自負的專業，所以要我們看着鏡子找到自己的錯處，很困難。更不用說要帶出改變了。 其實我得加快表達這個重點，我必須要說明，執法並不只限於執法，每一個人都是社區內的一份子每一個人都造就了這個社區既然如此，我想說的是我們實在過於倚賴把責任盡歸於執法實在過於倚賴 （掌聲） 然後我們又會對執法部門老大的不滿每當法律被執行的時候事實上根本就沒有理由作為社區的一份子，我們竟然報警就為了有小孩在街上打籃球。事實上根本就沒有理由，我們竟然報警就為了我的鄰居家裡的音樂太吵耳，就為了他家的狗兒來到了我家的庭院裡便溺；事實上根本就沒有理由，我們竟然為這些事宜報警。其實我們都只是摒棄了自己的責任。聽好了，當我還是小孩在巴爾的摩成長的時候，聽好了，我們也是在街上瞎玩的，我就從沒有看到過有警察過來趕我們你們知道是誰過來的？都是那些長者們。都是社區裡的家長模楷。他們都是守護者，是社區裡的一種精神。他們會來到了我們當中，勒勸我們，“這不行！” 及 “得這樣”和“這不行的。”在社區裡我們都有導師，到處都有。 所以其實責任在我們每一位，我們每一位。當我提說社區的時候我在說所有組成了社區的每一部份，甚至，聽好了，由於我是一位傳道者，我對教會非常有要求，尤其我相信教會常常會流於 MIA那即是沒有行動，missing in action在過去十多二十年，我相信教會轉型了從社區型的教會，那種你從家裡出去，拐個彎就到了的教會。轉成為方便於交通往來者的教會。所以你現在擁有的教會，是倒模一樣的隔離，明明是從社區裡孕育出來的，卻變得對這個社區沒有了關愛。 我可以無止境的說下去，但我得真的要完成這個任務了。社區和警力:我們都失去了, 那份我稱之為關愛權益的珍貴天賦。我們一眾都失去了這份關愛。那不是別人的過錯，那通通是我們自己的過錯。我們都得肩起這份責任。但我要說明：我們所有人要建構自己的城市，永遠不會太遲讓城市重新再偉大起來，永遠不會太遲。永遠不會太遲。你看看，用了三年的時間，在我當社區執行官的四年半裡，三年下來，當我把牧師和我的警隊隊友們一起放進於一輛車內，因為我很清楚知道，那是一個小秘密，我很清楚知道，要制止一個糟糕的警察，而牧師又在一旁的時候，確實很不容易。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 上下車輛的時候，你都得向座位旁的牧師看一看，再說，上主，請原諒我，因為我整日都有罪 — 這其實做不了嘛!所以我們推行了一些很捧的點子，讓我們的社區和警察重建信任。我們開始從青年們著手，尤其是誤上歧途的那幫青年。我們知道有經濟難題，所以我們開始創造就業。我們知道社區而他們沒有途徑獲得恰當的醫療支援，所以我們找夥伴。我們來到那個交滙處尋找夥伴任何願意和我們並肩的夥伴。一起討論我們整體上需要甚麼，而從來不是著眼於罪行。因為終究來說，只要我們照顧眾人的需要，只要我們從根源上著手，罪惡也會自行歸邊。會自行歸邊。 (掌聲) 所以，在這個四年半的期限，其中三年以來我們回顧和重溫，然後會發現我們處於四十年來史上的最低點，我們的犯罪數目，謀殺案，全部都下降，回到七十年代的光景。甚至可能已經回到更久遠的年代，但問題是，我們的紀錄只從七十年代開始搜集。四十年來的罪案低點，蠻不錯嘛，有其他指揮官打電話給我＂唏，米，你幹了些甚麼好事情，老兄?到底幹了些甚麼好事情? 我們也得跟著才行!＂ (笑聲) 所以我們和他們分享了我們的點子。在短時間內，那個城市成就了三十年來最低的罪行發生三十年來首次，巴爾的摩城市，我們的謀殺案，降低至少於二百宗，仔細來說，只有一百九十七宗。所以我們慶祝，因為我們學懂了成為好的服務者，首要先成為好的服務者。 但我也必須讓你們知道：在剛過去的幾年，儘管我們學懂了成為好的主動的警官也成為了懂得關愛的警官，而不是純反應模式的，但在剛過去的幾年，確實使我失望了。這傷了我的心。陸續而來的也叫我傷心。想起時仍然會傷了我的心，因為真心的我相信這從來不應該發生。我相信這從來不應該發生。假設容許我們繼續以我們認同的方式，服務我們的社區，以人為本，以人為尊，愛人為首。只要當時我們可以繼續如此這般，那其實根本不應該會發生。但是，不知怎麼的，我們又回到了那種因循的模式。 可是我又感到興奮不已了!我又感到興奮不已，因為我們現在的警察指揮官對於社區裡的監察，不會說說而已，他透徹地理解，更重要的是，他認同這個方向。所以我很感到興奮。聽好了，對於今天的巴爾的摩，我很雀躍，因為就像很多城市一樣，我相信，我們會置諸而後生。我相信 — 我真心相信 — (掌聲) 我們會再崛起。我相信，當我們繼續並肩，繼續同喊，“我們同舟共濟”因為那不只是一個交滙處：當我們滙在一起，我們就在同一條道路上去實踐同一樣的目標，這個城市會再好起來。這個國家會再次偉大起來。因為我們有共同目標：我們心繫和平。我們希望互相尊重。我們都希望得到愛。我相信我們已回歸到原來的這個方向，我為此感到很雀躍， 所以聽著，我謝謝您們給我的幾分鐘時間。 上主保佑您們所有人。 (掌聲) 上主保佑您們。 (掌聲)
