Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_green_how_we_can_make_the_world_a_better_place_by_2030	Do you think the world is going to be a better place next year? In the next decade? Can we end hunger, achieve gender equality, halt climate change, all in the next 15 years? Well, according to the governments of the world, yes we can. In the last few days, the leaders of the world, meeting at the UN in New York, agreed a new set of Global Goals for the development of the world to 2030. And here they are: these goals are the product of a massive consultation exercise. The Global Goals are who we, humanity, want to be. Now that's the plan, but can we get there? Can this vision for a better world really be achieved? Well, I'm here today because we've run the numbers, and the answer, shockingly, is that maybe we actually can. But not with business as usual. Now, the idea that the world is going to get a better place may seem a little fanciful. Watch the news every day and the world seems to be going backwards, not forwards. And let's be frank: it's pretty easy to be skeptical about grand announcements coming out of the UN. But please, I invite you to suspend your disbelief for just a moment. Because back in 2001, the UN agreed another set of goals, the Millennium Development Goals. And the flagship target there was to halve the proportion of people living in poverty by 2015. The target was to take from a baseline of 1990, when 36 percent of the world's population lived in poverty, to get to 18 percent poverty this year. Did we hit this target? Well, no, we didn't. We exceeded it. This year, global poverty is going to fall to 12 percent. Now, that's still not good enough, and the world does still have plenty of problems. But the pessimists and doomsayers who say that the world can't get better are simply wrong. So how did we achieve this success? Well, a lot of it was because of economic growth. Some of the biggest reductions in poverty were in countries such as China and India, which have seen rapid economic growth in recent years. So can we pull off the same trick again? Can economic growth get us to the Global Goals? Well, to answer that question, we need to benchmark where the world is today against the Global Goals and figure out how far we have to travel. But that ain't easy, because the Global Goals aren't just ambitious, they're also pretty complicated. Over 17 goals, there are then 169 targets and literally hundreds of indicators. Also, while some of the goals are pretty specific — end hunger — others are a lot vaguer — promote peaceful and tolerant societies. So to help us with this benchmarking, I'm going to use a tool called the Social Progress Index. What this does is measures all the stuff the Global Goals are trying to achieve, but sums it up into a single number that we can use as our benchmark and track progress over time. The Social Progress Index basically asks three fundamental questions about a society. First of all, does everyone have the basic needs of survival: food, water, shelter, safety? Secondly, does everyone have the building blocks of a better life: education, information, health and a sustainable environment? And does everyone have the opportunity to improve their lives, through rights, freedom of choice, freedom from discrimination, and access to the world's most advanced knowledge? The Social Progress Index sums all this together using 52 indicators to create an aggregate score on a scale of 0 to 100. And what we find is that there's a wide diversity of performance in the world today. The highest performing country, Norway, scores 88. The lowest performing country, Central African Republic, scores 31. And we can add up all the countries together, weighting for the different population sizes, and that global score is 61. In concrete terms, that means that the average human being is living on a level of social progress about the same of Cuba or Kazakhstan today. That's where we are today: 61 out of 100. What do we have to get to to achieve the Global Goals? Now, the Global Goals are certainly ambitious, but they're not about turning the world into Norway in just 15 years. So having looked at the numbers, my estimate is that a score of 75 would not only be a giant leap forward in human well-being, it would also count as hitting the Global Goals target. So there's our target, 75 out of 100. Can we get there? Well, the Social Progress Index can help us calculate this, because as you might have noticed, there are no economic indicators in there; there's no GDP or economic growth in the Social Progress Index model. And what that lets us do is understand the relationship between economic growth and social progress. Let me show you on this chart. So here on the vertical axis, I've put social progress, the stuff the Global Goals are trying to achieve. Higher is better. And then on the horizontal axis, is GDP per capita. Further to the right means richer. And in there, I'm now going to put all the countries of the world, each one represented by a dot, and on top of that I'm going to put the regression line that shows the average relationship. And what this tells us is that as we get richer, social progress does tend to improve. However, as we get richer, each extra dollar of GDP is buying us less and less social progress. And now we can use this information to start building our forecast. So here is the world in 2015. We have a social progress score of 61 and a GDP per capita of $14,000. And the place we're trying to get to, remember, is 75, that Global Goals target. So here we are today, $14,000 per capita GDP. How rich are we going to be in 2030? That's what we need to know next. Well, the best forecast we can find comes from the US Department of Agriculture, which forecasts 3.1 percent average global economic growth over the next 15 years, which means that in 2030, if they're right, per capita GDP will be about $23,000. So now the question is: if we get that much richer, how much social progress are we going to get? Well, we asked a team of economists at Deloitte who checked and crunched the numbers, and they came back and said, well, look: if the world's average wealth goes from $14,000 a year to $23,000 a year, social progress is going to increase from 61 to 62.4. (Laughter) Just 62.4. Just a tiny increase. Now this seems a bit strange. Economic growth seems to have really helped in the fight against poverty, but it doesn't seem to be having much impact on trying to get to the Global Goals. So what's going on? Well, I think there are two things. The first is that in a way, we're the victims of our own success. We've used up the easy wins from economic growth, and now we're moving on to harder problems. And also, we know that economic growth comes with costs as well as benefits. There are costs to the environment, costs from new health problems like obesity. So that's the bad news. We're not going to get to the Global Goals just by getting richer. So are the pessimists right? Well, maybe not. Because the Social Progress Index also has some very good news. Let me take you back to that regression line. So this is the average relationship between GDP and social progress, and this is what our last forecast was based on. But as you saw already, there is actually lots of noise around this trend line. What that tells us, quite simply, is that GDP is not destiny. We have countries that are underperforming on social progress, relative to their wealth. Russia has lots of natural resource wealth, but lots of social problems. China has boomed economically, but hasn't made much headway on human rights or environmental issues. India has a space program and millions of people without toilets. Now, on the other hand, we have countries that are overperforming on social progress relative to their GDP. Costa Rica has prioritized education, health and environmental sustainability, and as a result, it's achieving a very high level of social progress, despite only having a rather modest GDP. And Costa Rica's not alone. From poor countries like Rwanda to richer countries like New Zealand, we see that it's possible to get lots of social progress, even if your GDP is not so great. And that's really important, because it tells us two things. First of all, it tells us that we already in the world have the solutions to many of the problems that the Global Goals are trying to solve. It also tells us that we're not slaves to GDP. Our choices matter: if we prioritize the well-being of people, then we can make a lot more progress than our GDP might expect. How much? Enough to get us to the Global Goals? Well, let's look at some numbers. What we know already: the world today is scoring 61 on social progress, and the place we want to get to is 75. If we rely on economic growth alone, we're going to get to 62.4. So let's assume now that we can get the countries that are currently underperforming on social progress — the Russia, China, Indias — just up to the average. How much social progress does that get us? Well, that takes us to 65. It's a bit better, but still quite a long way to go. So let's get a little bit more optimistic and say, what if every country gets a little bit better at turning its wealth into well-being? Well then, we get to 67. And now let's be even bolder still. What if every country in the world chose to be like Costa Rica in prioritizing human well-being, using its wealth for the well-being of its citizens? Well then, we get to nearly 73, very close to the Global Goals. Can we achieve the Global Goals? Certainly not with business as usual. Even a flood tide of economic growth is not going to get us there, if it just raises the mega-yachts and the super-wealthy and leaves the rest behind. If we're going to achieve the Global Goals we have to do things differently. We have to prioritize social progress, and really scale solutions around the world. I believe the Global Goals are a historic opportunity, because the world's leaders have promised to deliver them. Let's not dismiss the goals or slide into pessimism; let's hold them to that promise. And we need to hold them to that promise by holding them accountable, tracking their progress all the way through the next 15 years. And I want to finish by showing you a way to do that, called the People's Report Card. The People's Report Card brings together all this data into a simple framework that we'll all be familiar with from our school days, to hold them to account. It grades our performance on the Global Goals on a scale from F to A, where F is humanity at its worst, and A is humanity at its best. Our world today is scoring a C-. The Global Goals are all about getting to an A, and that's why we're going to be updating the People's Report Card annually, for the world and for all the countries of the world, so we can hold our leaders to account to achieve this target and fulfill this promise. Because getting to the Global Goals will only happen if we do things differently, if our leaders do things differently, and for that to happen, that needs us to demand it. So let's reject business as usual. Let's demand a different path. Let's choose the world that we want. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Michael. Michael, just one question: the Millennium Development Goals established 15 years ago, they were kind of applying to every country but it turned out to be really a scorecard for emerging countries. Now the new Global Goals are explicitly universal. They ask for every country to show action and to show progress. How can I, as a private citizen, use the report card to create pressure for action? Michael Green: This is a really important point; it's a big shift in priorities — it's no longer about poor countries and just poverty. It's about every country. And every country is going to have challenges in getting to the Global Goals. Even, I'm sorry to say, Bruno, Switzerland has got to work to do. And so that's why we're going to produce these report cards in 2016 for every country in the world. Then we can really see, how are we doing? And it's not going to be rich countries scoring straight A's. And that, then, I think, is to provide a point of focus for people to start demanding action and start demanding progress. BG: Thank you very much. (Applause)	"各位你們認為明年全世界會不會更好?下一世紀呢?我們可否在接下來的15年內 結束飢荒,達成性別平等停止氣候災變嗎?是的,根據各國政府的說法我們可以做得到。最近這幾天,全世界的領導人在紐約聯合國總部舉行會議會議中達成了幾項新的協議就是2030年世界發展目標而他們就在這上面 這些目標就是大量諮詢活動後產生的結果。這些全球目標就是我們人類將來要達成的狀況。計劃雖然是這樣,但我們做得到嗎?這個美好的願景我們真的能達到嗎?好的,我今天來到這裡是因為我們已經跑完數據了。而答案,有點震驚... 那就是,也許我們真的做得到但跟往常沒有關係。現在,世界將更美好的想法也許似乎有點天真。從每天新聞看到全世界似乎在退步而不是進步。我們坦白地說: 這些從聯合國出來的重大宣示很容會被遭到質疑。但請別誤會,我請各位先暫緩一下你們的懷疑。因為,回顧一下西元2001年，聯合國各國當時有協議出一些千禧年的發展目標，而主要目標就是在2015年前減少50%生活在貧困中的人口比例。目標是以西元1990年為基準線， 當時有36％的世界人口生活在貧困之中，而今年目標需降到18％。我們有達到18%的目標嗎?嗯...不,我們沒有。我們超越了18%。今年全球貧困人口將會下降至12％但,這仍然不夠好,世界上 的確仍存有很多問題。 但那些說世界不會更好的悲觀主義者和災難預言家，他們基本上是錯的。那麼,我們是怎麼達成這些目標的呢?是的,有很多的原因是經濟成長。一些最大幅度減少貧困的國家,例如近幾年經濟快速增長的中國和印度那麼,我們可以用相同的伎倆而再次的達成嗎?經濟成長會讓我們達成全球目標嗎?好的,要回答這個問題前, 我們需要標示出當今全世界離目標有多遠並算出我們還要付出多少努力才能達到目標。但這並不容易因為這個全球目標不僅有抱負,且他們還相當複雜超過17個目標,有169個目標和數百個確切的數字指標。此外,雖然有些目標是非常具體例如終結飢荒—— 但有些目標還是很模糊的，例如推廣合諧與包容的社會。所以為了幫助我們訂立標準，我將使用一個工具稱之為社會進步指數。這樣做是為了評量全球目標到達的狀況 把它彙整成一個數字使我們能夠用這個數字標準來隨時追蹤目標的進度。社會進步指標基本上有3個要求的評量基準。首先,每個人是否有基本的生存所需：食物、水、遮風擋雨的地方、安全問題?第二,每個人是否可以追求更美好的生活基石：教育、資訊、健康、穩定的環境？ 及每個人是否有改善他們生活的機會?完整的權利、選擇的自由避免被歧視的自由?及獲得全世界最先進知識的權利?社會進步指標採用了52項指標產生了一個0到100的分數。而我們發現全世界各個國家都有不一樣的表現。最高分是挪威 88分。最低分是中非共和國 31分我們可以加總所有國家的分數並依不一樣的人口數量做加權平均得到一個全球平均分數61分 嚴格來說,意思就是全人類的平均社會進步水平 相當於當今的古巴或哈薩克斯坦的水平。這就是我們今日的水平:滿分100分拿到了61分。我們要做那些事才能達成這些目標呢?現在,這些世界目標的確是具有野心,但也不是說要把他們在短短15年內,變成挪威那樣的高分。所以仔細地考慮一下分數我的估計是75分這在人類幸福上不僅是一個巨大的飛躍。也意味著可達成的全球目標。 所以我們的目標是:從100分裡拿到75分。我們達的到嗎?好的,社會進步指數可以幫助我們計算,也許你已經注意到,這裡面沒有經濟指標,在社會進步指數中沒有包含GDP或經濟成長。 而這是為了要讓我們理解經濟成長與社會進步的相互關係。我來秀一張圖表給你們看一看,垂直軸線代表社會進步指標,也就是全球目標要達成的分數。越高越好。水平軸線代表 -人均GDP越往右邊 代表越有錢然後我在這邊放進全部國家,每一點代表一個國家。在圖上面 我放進了回歸線代表平均關係值。圖上告訴我們,即使我們變更富有了,社會進步指標卻沒有傾向增加。雖然我們變更富有了但我們在GDP每多賺的一塊錢想要在社會進步上有相對的購買力已經越來越難了。我們現在可以用這個資訊來建立我們的預測。這裡是2015年。我們的社會進步指標分數是61分人均GDP是14,000美金,而我們要達到的全球目標記住是75分。好的,我們現在是14,000美金的人均GDP那我們在西元2030年會達到多少金額呢?這是下一步我們要知道的。好,我們能得到的最佳預測是從美國的農業發展局找到的,他們對全球經濟成長在接下來的15年內的預測是:平均增長值約 3.1%如果他們預估正確那麼在2030年,人均GDP 將會達到23,000美金。那麼問題是:如果我們真的那麼富有了,我們的社會進步指標會到達多少分數?好,我們問了Deloitte的經濟學家他們核對並研究了這些數據,然後他們回應說:來,你們看如果全球的人均GDP從14,000美金成長到23,000美金, 社會進步指標會從 61分增加到62.4分。 (笑聲)只有62.4分,才進步那麼一點點...現在,這看起來有點奇怪。經濟成長看起來似乎對對抗貧窮有實質的幫助,但,它看起來對要達成的全球目標。似乎沒有那麼大的影響力。所以,倒底是怎麼回事?好的,我認為有2件事:首先,我們自己是自我成功的受害者。我們用盡了從經濟成長中所帶來的好處。現在我們卻要面臨更困難的問題 而且我們也知道經濟成長伴隨著利益與代價。如環境破壞的代價肥胖症帶來健康問題的代價。 所以這是壞消息。 我們不能依賴變的更富有來達到我們的全球目標。所以悲觀主義者他們是對的囉?嗯...也許沒有因為社會進步指標也有很好的消息。讓我帶你回到那條回歸線看一看,它是GDP與社會進步的平均關係。這是我們最近預測的基準。 但就如你所看到的,這條趨勢線實際上有很多的雜音。它告訴我們一件相當簡單的事就是GDP不是我們唯一的使命。我們有很多國家相較他們的財富而言在社會進步方面都表現不佳。俄羅斯有很多天然資源資產,但卻有很多社會問題。中國大陸經濟成長驚人但對人權問題及環境議題上卻沒有多大的進展。印度有航太計畫但仍有幾百萬人沒廁所。另一方面,現在有很多國家在GDP相對應的社會進步上已經超乎表現。哥斯大黎加已經將教育、健康、環境永續問題列入他們的優先考慮議題而結果是它在社會進步上達到很高的水平，儘管他們在GDP表現上相對溫和。但哥斯大黎加並不孤單。從貧窮國家像是盧安達到較富有的國家紐西蘭, 我們得知要得到很大的社會進步是有可能的即使你的GDP表現不是那麼亮麗。而這很重要,它告訴我們2件事:首先,它告訴我們,我們已經在試圖解決全球目標的問題上已擁有很多解決方法了。它也告訴我們我們不是GDP的奴役。 這跟選擇有關:如果我們把人類幸福擺第一那相對於期望的GDP增長我們會有很大的進步。多大?足夠我們達成全球目標嗎?好的,讓我們來看一些數據。我們已經知道:現今全球的社會進步指標平均在61分而我們想達到的分數是75分。如果我們僅單純的依賴經濟成長我們只能達到62.4分。那麼讓我們假設把目前這些低於表現的國家像是俄羅斯、中國大陸、印度...等把他們計算到平均值就好。我們在社會進步指數上會得到幾分?我們會得到65分。有比較好一點,但仍然有很長的一段路要走。那讓我們樂觀一點地說如果每個國家多下點功夫在把財富轉換成幸福這件事上呢?那麼我們會得到67分。現在讓我們更大膽的假設。如果每個國家把人類幸福擺第一順位與哥斯達黎加一樣, 把資源投入在每位市民的幸福上會得到幾分呢?將近73分,很接近全球目標了。我們可以達到全球目標嗎?當然不能再走原路了。即使是經濟成長也不能撐腰我們。使我們不能不顧一切地擁有奢華巨型遊艇和超級富豪而忽略其他類將。如果想達到全球目標,我們必須做些不一樣的事。我們必須優先考量社會的進步並認真的規劃世界各地的解決方案。我相信世界目標會是個歷史機會,因為全世界的領導人已經承諾要達成這些目標。我們不要放棄目標或陷入悲觀主義。 讓我們堅持住這些承諾。而且我們需要負責任地堅持住這些承諾在接下來的15年內持續追蹤這些進度。最後結束前我要告訴你們一個可行方法它叫做人民報告卡。人民報告卡匯集了所有的數據到一個簡單的工作框架內像是以前我們會認真看待且大家孰悉的學校成績單。它會對我們全球目標表現作評分從F到A，F表示對人類最差A表示對人類最好。現今我們的世界是""C減""的成績,而全球目標是全部要達到A。而這也是為什麼我們每年要更新人民報告卡的原因。為了全世界為了全世界的國家,我們要監督我們的領袖們認真看待這件事 達成目標並完成這個承諾。因為只有不一樣的作為我們才能達成全球目標,如果要讓這件事發生需要各位一起努力, 要求各國領袖們要有不一樣的作為了。 所以讓我們拋棄舊方法。 讓我們專注在不一樣的方法。讓我們選擇我們想要的世界。謝謝。(掌聲)布鲁诺·朱萨尼:謝謝你,邁克爾。邁克爾,再請問你一個問題:15年前 千禧年頒布的那些目標,他們都有應用在每個國家上,但也發現新興國家也有分數卡。邁克爾格林：對。 現在新的全球目標是那麼地普遍性。他們要求每個國家要付諸行動並展現進程。身為一位普通老百姓我要如何使用報告卡來對行動施展壓力?邁克爾格林：這點真的很重要它是一個優先順序的大改變——它不再是貧困國家或只是貧窮問題。它攸關於每個國家。而各個國家在全球目標的議題上即將面臨挑戰。甚至,我很抱歉地說,布魯諾...瑞士已經著手在做了。而這也是為什麼我們在2016年即將為世界各個國家製作報告卡 如此我們就能真正的看到我們該如何做? 而這不是意味著有錢的國家就可以直接得到A。我認為這可以為開始投入行動與專注進程的人提供一個專注點。BG:非常謝謝你們。(掌聲)"
