Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_metcalfe_a_provocative_way_to_finance_the_fight_against_climate_change	"Will we do whatever it takes to tackle climate change? I come at this question not as a green campaigner, in fact, I confess to be rather hopeless at recycling. I come at it as a professional observer of financial policy making and someone that wonders how history will judge us. One day, this ring that belonged to my grandfather will pass to my son, Charlie. And I wonder what his generation and perhaps the one that follows will make of the two lives this ring has worked. My grandfather was a coal miner. In his time, burning fossil fuels for energy and for allowing economies to develop was accepted. We know now that that is not the case because of the greenhouse gases that coal produces. But today, I fear it's the industry in which I work that will be judged more harshly because of its impact on the climate — more harshly than my grandfather's industry, even. I work, of course, in the banking industry, which will be remembered for its crisis in 2008 — a crisis that diverted the attention and finances of governments away from some really, really important promises, like promises made at the Copenhagen Climate Summit in 2009 to mobilize 100 billion dollars a year to help developing countries move away from burning fossil fuels and transition to using cleaner energy. That promise is already in jeopardy. And that's a real problem, because that transition to cleaner energy needs to happen sooner rather than later. Firstly, because greenhouse gases, once released, stay in the atmosphere for decades. And secondly, if a developing economy builds its power grid around fossil fuels today, it's going to be way more costly to change later on. So for the climate, history may judge that the banking crisis happened at just the wrong time. The story need not be this gloomy, though. Three years ago, I argued that governments could use the tools deployed to save the financial system to meet other global challenges. And these arguments are getting stronger, not weaker, with time. Let's take a brief reminder of what those tools looked like. When the financial crisis hit in 2008, the central banks of the US and UK began buying bonds issued by their own governments in a policy known as ""quantitative easing."" Depending on what happens to those bonds when they mature, this is money printing by another name. And boy, did they print. The US alone created four trillion dollars' worth of its own currency. This was not done in isolation. In a remarkable act of cooperation, the 188 countries that make up the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, agreed to issue 250 billion dollars' worth of their own currency — the Special Drawing Right — to boost reserves around the world. When the financial crisis moved to Europe, the European Central Bank President, Mario Draghi, promised ""to do whatever it takes."" And they did. The Bank of Japan repeated those words — that exact same commitment — to do ""whatever it takes"" to reflate their economy. In both cases, ""whatever it takes"" meant trillions of dollars more in money-printing policies that continue today. What this shows is that when faced with some global challenges, policy makers are able to act collectively, with urgency, and run the risks of unconventional policies like money printing. So, let's go back to that original question: Can we print money for climate finance? Three years ago, the idea of using money in this way was something of a taboo. Once you break down and dismantle the idea that money is a finite resource, governments can quickly get overwhelmed by demands from their people to print more and more money for other causes: education, health care, welfare — even defense. And there are some truly terrible historical examples of money printing — uncontrolled money printing — leading to hyperinflation. Think: Weimar Republic in 1930; Zimbabwe more recently, in 2008, when the prices of basic goods like bread are doubling every day. But all of this is moving the public debate forward, so much so, that money printing for the people is now discussed openly in the financial media, and even in some political manifestos. But it's important the debate doesn't stop here, with printing national currencies. Because climate change is a shared global problem, there are some really compelling reasons why we should be printing that international currency that's issued by the IMF, to fund it. The Special Drawing Right, or SDR, is the IMF's electronic unit of account that governments use to transfer funds amongst each other. Think of it as a peer-to-peer payment network, like Bitcoin, but for governments. And it's truly global. Each of the 188 members of the IMF hold SDR quotas as part of their foreign exchange reserves. These are national stores of wealth that countries keep to protect themselves against currency crises. And that global nature is why, at the height of the financial crisis in 2009, the IMF issued those extra 250 billion dollars — because it served as a collective global action that safeguarded countries large and small in one fell swoop. But here — here's the intriguing part. More than half of those extra SDRs that were printed in 2009 — 150 billion dollars' worth — went to developed market countries who, for the most part, have a modest need for these foreign exchange reserves, because they have flexible exchange rates. So those extra reserves that were printed in 2009, in the end, for developed market countries at least, weren't really needed. And they remain unused today. So here's an idea. As a first step, why don't we start spending those unused, those extra SDRs that were printed in 2009, to combat climate change? They could, for example, be used to buy bonds issued by the UN's Green Climate Fund. This was a fund created in 2009, following that climate agreement in Copenhagen. And it was designed to channel funds towards developing countries to meet their climate projects. It's been one of the most successful funds of its type, raising almost 10 billion dollars. But if we use those extra SDRs that were issued, it helps governments get back on track, to meet that promise of 100 billion dollars a year that was derailed by the financial crisis. It could also — it could also serve as a test case. If the inflationary consequences of using SDRs in this way are benign, it could be used to justify the additional, extra issuance of SDRs, say, every five years, again, with the commitment that developed-market countries would direct their share of the new reserves to the Green Climate Fund. Printing international money in this way has several advantages over printing national currencies. The first is it's really easy to argue that spending money to mitigate climate change benefits everyone. No one section of society benefits from the printing press over another. That problem of competing claims is mitigated. It's also fair to say that because it takes so many countries to agree to issue these extra SDRs, it's highly unlikely that money printing would get out of control. What you end up with is a collective, global action aimed — and it's controlled global action — aimed at a global good. And, as we've learned with the money-printing schemes, whatever concerns we have can be allayed by rules. So, for example, the issuance of these extra SDRs every five years could be capped, such that this international currency is never more than five percent of global foreign exchange reserves. That's important because it would allay well, let's say, the ridiculous concerns that the US might have that the SDR could ever challenge the dollar's dominant role in international finance. And in fact, I think the only thing that the SDR would likely steal from the dollar under this scheme is its nickname, the ""greenback."" Because even with that cap in place, the IMF could have followed up its issuance — its massive issuance of SDRs in 2009 — with a further 200 billion dollars of SDRs in 2014. So hypothetically, that would mean that developed countries could have contributed up to 300 billion dollars' worth of SDRs to the Green Climate Fund. That's 30 times what it has today. And you know, as spectacular as that sounds, it's only just beginning to look like ""whatever it takes."" And just to think what amazing things could be done with that money, consider this: in 2009, Norway promised one billion dollars of its reserves to Brazil if they followed through on their goals on deforestation. That program has since delivered a 70 percent reduction in deforestation in the past decade. That's saving 3.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide emissions, which is the equivalent of taking all American cars off the roads for three whole years. So what could we do with 300 other pay-for-performance climate projects like that, organized on a global scale? We could take cars off the roads for a generation. So, let's not quibble about whether we can afford to fund climate change. The real question is: Do we care enough about future generations to take the very same policy risks we took to save the financial system? After all, we could do it, we did do it and we are doing it today. We must, must, must do ""whatever it takes."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我們是否會「不計代價」地對抗氣候變遷？ 我提出這個問題，不是因為我是環保人士，坦白說，我對垃圾回收不報太大的希望。我是以一位專業財經政策制定觀察家的身分，提出這個問題，也是一位想知道歷史將如何評價我們的人。 總有一天，這只屬於我爺爺的戒指，也會傳承到我兒子查理手上。而我在想，他的時代，或他的下一代，會如何因為我和爺爺的所做所為而改變？ 我的爺爺是一位煤礦礦工。在他的年代，為了能源及經濟發展，燃燒石化燃料的行為是被广泛接受的。現在大家都知道，事實並非如此，因為燒煤會產生溫室氣體。但，如今，我擔心我所工作的產業將來會因為它沒有發揮對氣候變化的影響力而遭受嚴厲地批判，甚至被批判得比我爺爺的產業還慘。 當然，我從事的是銀行業，而2008年銀行業所經歷的的金融危機已然被載入史冊－－正因为這個危機，政府轉移了注意力與財政方向，讓一些原本相當，相當重要的承諾都被忽視了，例如 2009 年在哥本哈根聯合國的氣候大會上承諾每年要動用 的1000 億美金，以幫助發展中國家慢慢從燃燒石化燃料轉型到使用乾淨的能源。這個承諾已經陷入危機。而這是一個現實的問題，因為轉型到乾淨能源的這件事，需要盡早進行而不能再拖延下去。 首先，因為，溫室氣體一旦排放出來，它會停留在大氣層中好幾十年。第二，如果今天一個發展中的經濟體，一旦建立了他們自己的石化燃料能源網路，之後想要改回來，就得花更多的成本。所以，對氣候而言，歷史也許會評斷我們的金融危機只是發生的不是時候。其實故事不需要這麼淒慘的。 三年前，我曾提出言論說過，政府可以善用工具拯救金融系統，來迎接其它的全球挑戰。而這些言論隨著時間，越來越強烈，越來越受到重視。讓我們稍微回憶一下，這些工具是長什麼樣子。 當 2008 年的金融風暴來襲時，美國及英國的中央銀行，開始購買他們自己政府所發行的債劵，也就是大家所孰知的「量化寬鬆 」政策。當這些債劵到期時，看看當時的狀況，再決定要不要繼續，這只是另一種印錢的名義而已。而且天哪，他們真的印了。光美國就印了將近四兆美金。這不是單一國家做的事。而是由 188 個會員國共同組成的國際貨幣基金組織 IMF 所做出的決定，他們同意發行 2500 億美金等值的貨幣，—也就是SDR「特別提款權」—來增加全球的貨幣儲備供給。 當金融風暴移到歐洲後，歐洲中央銀行行長，馬里奧．德拉吉，也承諾要「不計代價」地拯救金融市場。而他們真的做到了。日本銀行也重複一樣的話—完全一樣的承諾—「不計代價」地要復甦他們的經濟。這兩個案例中，「不計代價」就意味著，這些好幾十億的印鈔票政策，會一直跟著我們走到今天。這表示，當面對一些全球性的挑戰時，政策制定者們也會緊急、共同地做出一些非傳統式的高風險決策，像是印鈔票。 所以，讓我們回到原來的問題上：我們可以為氣候的金融印鈔票嗎？三年前，我們這樣用錢的方式是一種不被允許的禁忌。一旦你破壞了「錢是有限資源」的原則，接踵而来的民众诉求将会迫使政府在各个方面印更多的钱，比如教育、醫療照顧、社會福利—甚至是國防。 而這樣的印錢方式，的確有可怕的歷史案例可以借鑒—失控的鈔票列印—會導致通貨膨脹。想想：1930 年的威瑪共和國；近代 2008 年的辛巴威，當時一些基本生活用品，像是麵包，每天加倍地上漲。但這些所有事情的發展推進了公開辯論的腳步，因此，為人民印錢，現在已經可以公開地被討論，無論財經媒體，甚至一些政黨的政策裡面都看得到。 但很重要的一點是，列印國際貨幣的爭論不會就此停止，因為氣候變遷是一個全球共同的問題，這也是為什麼我們必須請 IMF發行國際貨幣來資助這件事，其實也是萬不得已的。「特別提款權」也就是 SDR，是 IMF 的電子記帳單位，用來方便政府之間帳戶金額的移轉。想像一下，它就是P2P 的網路付款方式，像是比特幣，但，是政府之間在用的。 而且，它真的是全球性的。188 個 IMF 會員國手上都握有 SDR 的配額，做為他們部分的外匯存底。這些是國際財富的儲藏室，它可以讓國家持續保護它們自己免於貨幣的危機。而這也是為什麼在 2009 年金融海嘯的最高峰，IMF 又加碼多印了 2500 億美金—因為這次集體的全球行動，把大大小小的國家，全部一次性地保護起來。 但這裡有一個很耐人尋味的地方。2009年，有超過半數的 SDRs—價值1500億美金—跑到已開發國家的市場裏面，因為大部分這些國家的外匯存底都有一個小小的需求，它們需要較靈活的交換利率。所以，這些 2009 年印出來的鈔票，最後跑到已開發國家市場了，但他們根本不是真的需要這筆錢。所以他們保留到今天。 我這裡有一個想法。第一步，為什麼我們不把這些在 2009 年多印出來還沒有使用的鈔票，投入到對抗氣候變遷上呢？ 他們可以的，例如，利用這筆錢來買聯合國綠色氣候基金會發行的債劵。這是根據 2009 年哥本哈根的聯合國氣候大會協議所成立的一個基金會。它是被設計用來引渡氣候專案基金到開發中國家的一個機構。這是一個很典型的成功基金會，他們已經舉債將近 100 億美金。但如果我們把這些多餘發行的 SDRs 拿來使用，它可以幫助政府重回到軌道上，來兌現政府因金融風暴而拖沓許久的每年 1000 億美金的承諾。 它也可以—也可以用它來做測試。如果用了這筆 SDRs所造成的通膨後果是溫和的，那它就可以用來評斷比如，每五年額外發行的 SDRs 所造成的衝擊是否也是溫和的，當然，這要已開發國家承諾會直接把新增加存底的分配額匯到綠色氣候基金會。 用這樣印「國際鈔票」的方式比起直接印「國家鈔票」的方式，多了很多的好處。第一，花錢來減緩氣候變遷對大家都有好處，這一點大家不會有甚麼意見的。無論哪一國的印刷機印錢，都沒有人可從中獲取額外的利益，爭相申請印錢的問題是很小的。可以很公平地說，這樣可以讓很多國家同意發行額外的 SDRs，因為這樣印錢的方式不太可能會不受控制。畢竟你最終是一個全球的集體行為，一個大家目標一致可控的集體行為，目的就是為了地球好。而且，因為我們已經有印鈔票的經驗，無論大家有甚麼顧慮，都可以透過規則來排除。 例如，可以限制這些每五年額外發行的國際貨幣 SDRs 的總金額 ，不能超過全球外匯存底的5%。這很重要，因為這樣做可以避免掉一些可笑的疑慮，比如說，有人會質疑這些 SDRs 會挑戰美元在國際金融市場的主導地位。而事實上，我認為唯一可能發生的事就是，SDR 在這個計畫裡下，可能會以美元的計價方式來發行，也就是俗稱的「綠背」（美金）因為即使有限額的規定，國際貨幣基金組織也會追蹤它的發行狀況—包括 2009 年大量發行的 SDRs，以及 2014 年追加 2000 億美金的 SDRs。 假設，如果這意味著，已開發國家需要貢獻價值 3000 億美金的 SDRs到綠色氣候基金會。這個數字是當今規模的 30 倍。你可能會覺得這數字聽起來相當驚人，但這僅是「不計代價」的剛開始而已。 想一下這筆錢可以為我們帶來甚麼驚豔的事，想一下這件事：2009 年，挪威答應，如果巴西遵守森林砍伐的目標，他們要給巴西 10 億美金的外匯存底。這個計畫在過去十年，已經減少 70% 的森林砍伐。也就是減少了 32 億噸的二氧化碳排放，相當於全美國汽車三年的排放量。所以，如果也有其它300個像這樣的「看表現付錢」的氣候專案，我們要如何以全球規模的方式把它組織起來？我們可以減少一個世代的汽車碳排。 所以，讓我們不要再狡辯我們是否有能力可以支付提供改善氣候變遷的資金。真正的問題是：我們是否真的夠關心我們未來的子子孫孫？並再次承擔類似拯救金融系統時的政策風險？畢竟，我們做得到，我們也曾經做到，而我們今天就要開始做。 我們必須、必須、必須、再次的「不計代價」。 謝謝各位！ （掌聲）
