Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_norton_how_to_buy_happiness	"So I want to talk today about money and happiness, which are two things a lot of us spend a lot of our time thinking about, either trying to earn them or trying to increase them. And a lot of us resonate with this phrase, we see it in religions and self-help books: money can't buy happiness. And I want to suggest today that, in fact, that's wrong. (Laughter) I'm at a business school, so that's what we do. So that's wrong, and in fact, if you think that, you're just not spending it right. So instead of spending it the way you usually spend it, maybe if you spent it differently, that might work a little bit better. Before I tell you the ways you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier. We had a little natural experiment. So CNN, a little while ago, wrote this interesting article on what happens to people when they win the lottery. It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives will be amazing. This article's about how their lives get ruined. What happens when people win the lottery is, one, they spend all the money and go into debt; and two, all of their friends and everyone they've ever met find them and bug them for money. It ruins their social relationships, in fact. So they have more debt and worse friendships than they had before they won the lottery. What was interesting about the article was, people started commenting on the article, readers of the thing. And instead of talking about how it made them realize that money doesn't lead to happiness, everyone started saying, ""You know what I'd do if I won the lottery ...?"" and fantasizing about what they'd do. Here's just two of the ones we saw that are interesting to think about. One person wrote, ""When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top."" (Laughter) And another person wrote, ""I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne."" This is even worse: ""... then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made. Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else."" (Laughter) And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial. So I told you it ruins people's lives and their friends bug them. Also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves. We thought maybe the reason money doesn't make us happy is that we're spending it on the wrong things; in particular, we're always spending it on ourselves. And we wondered what would happen if we made people spend more of their money on others. So instead of being antisocial with your money, what if you were more pro-social with it? We thought, let's make people do it and see what happens. Let's have some people do what they usually do, spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier. The first way we did this was, one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia, approached people and said, ""Do you want to be in an experiment?"" They said, ""Yes."" We asked them how happy they were, and then gave them an envelope. One of the envelopes had things in it that said, ""By 5pm today, spend this money on yourself."" We gave some examples of what you could spend it on. Other people got a slip of paper that said, ""By 5pm today, spend this money on somebody else."" Also inside the envelope was money. And we manipulated how much money we gave them; some people got this slip of paper and five dollars, some got this slip of paper and 20 dollars. We let them go about their day and do whatever they wanted. We found out they did spend it in the way we asked them to. We called them up and asked them, ""What did you spend it on? How happy do you feel now?"" What did they spend it on? These are college undergrads; a lot of what they spent it on for themselves were things like earrings and makeup. One woman said she bought a stuffed animal for her niece. People gave money to homeless people. Huge effect here of Starbucks. (Laughter) So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them, and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can. Some people bought coffee for themselves, the way they usually would, but others bought coffee for somebody else. So the very same purchase, just targeted toward yourself or targeted toward somebody else. What did we find when we called at the end of the day? People who spent money on others got happier; people who spent it on themselves, nothing happened. It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them. The other thing we saw is the amount of money doesn't matter much. People thought 20 dollars would be way better than five. In fact, it doesn't matter how much money you spent. What really matters is that you spent it on somebody else rather than on yourself. We see this again and again when we give people money to spend on others instead of on themselves. Of course, these are undergraduates in Canada — not the world's most representative population. They're also fairly wealthy and affluent and other sorts of things. We wanted to see if this holds true everywhere in the world or just among wealthy countries. So we went to Uganda and ran a very similar experiment. Imagine, instead of just people in Canada, we say, ""Name the last time you spent money on yourself or others. Describe it. How happy did it make you?"" Or in Uganda, ""Name the last time you spent money on yourself or others and describe that."" Then we asked them how happy they are, again. And what we see is sort of amazing, because there's human universals on what you do with your money, and real cultural differences on what you do as well. So for example, one guy from Uganda says this: ""I called a girl I wished to love."" They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't ""achieve"" her up till now. (Laughter) Here's a guy from Canada. Very similar thing. ""I took my girlfriend out for dinner. We went to a movie, we left early, and then went back to her room for ... cake,"" just cake. (Laughter) Human universal: you spend money on others, you're being nice. Maybe you have something in mind, maybe not. But then we see extraordinary differences. So look at these two. This is a woman from Canada. We say, ""Name a time you spent money on somebody else."" She says, ""I bought a present for my mom. I drove to the mall, bought a present, gave it to my mom."" Perfectly nice thing to do. It's good to get gifts for people you know. Compare that to this woman from Uganda: ""I was walking and met a longtime friend whose son was sick with malaria. They had no money, they went to a clinic and I gave her this money."" This isn't $10,000, it's the local currency. So it's a very small amount of money, in fact. But enormously different motivations here. This is a real medical need, literally a lifesaving donation. Above, it's just kind of, I bought a gift for my mother. What we see again, though, is that the specific way you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important. So you don't have to do amazing things with your money to make yourself happy. You can do small, trivial things and still get the benefits from doing this. These are only two countries. We wanted to look at every country in the world if we could, to see what the relationship is between money and happiness. We got data from the Gallup Organization, which you know from all the political polls happening lately. They asked people, ""Did you donate money to charity recently?"" and, ""How happy are you with life in general?"" We can see what the relationship is between those two things. Are they positively correlated, giving money makes you happy? Or are they negatively correlated? On this map, green will mean they're positively correlated, red means they're negatively correlated. And you can see, the world is crazily green. So in almost every country in the world where we have this data, people who give money to charity are happier people than people who don't give money to charity. I know you're looking at the red country in the middle. I would be a jerk and not tell you what it is, but it's Central African Republic. You can make up stories. Maybe it's different there for some reason. Just below that to the right is Rwanda, though, which is amazingly green. So almost everywhere we look, we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself. What about work, which is where we spend the rest of our time, when we're not with the people we know. We decided to infiltrate some companies and do a very similar thing. These are sales teams in Belgium. They work in teams, go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs. We can look and see how well they sell things as a function of being a member of a team. We give people on some teams some money ""Spend it however you want on yourself,"" just like we did with the undergrads in Canada. To other teams we say, ""Here's 15 euro. Spend it on one of your teammates. Buy them something as a gift and give it to them. Then we can see, we've got teams that spend on themselves and these pro-social teams who we give money to make the team better. The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one team pooled their money and bought a pinata, they smashed the pinata, the candy fell out and things like that. A silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this pro-social experience where they bonded together to buy something and do a group activity. What we see is that the teams that are pro-social sell more stuff than the teams that only got money for themselves. One way to think of it is: for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket and don't do anything different than before. You don't get money from that; you lose money, since it doesn't motivate them to perform better. But when you give them 15 euro to spend on their teammates, they do so much better on their teams that you actually get a huge win on investing this kind of money. You're probably thinking to yourselves, this is all fine, but there's a context that's incredibly important for public policy, and I can't imagine it would work there. And if he doesn't show me that it works here, I don't believe anything he said. I know what you're all thinking about are dodgeball teams. (Laughter) This was a huge criticism that we got, that if you can't show it with dodgeball teams, this is all stupid. So we went and found these dodgeball teams and infiltrated them, and did the exact same thing as before. So we give people on some teams money to spend on themselves. Other teams, we give them money to spend on their dodgeball teammates. The teams that spend money on themselves have the same winning percentages as before. The teams we give the money to spend on each other become different teams; they dominate the league by the time they're done. Across all of these different contexts — your personal life, you work life, even things like intramural sports — we see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself. So if you think money can't buy happiness, you're not spending it right. The implication isn't you should buy this product instead of that product, and that's the way to make yourself happier. It's that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself, and try giving some of it to other people instead. And we luckily have an opportunity for you. DonorsChoose.org is a nonprofit for mainly public school teachers in low-income schools. They post projects like, ""I want to teach Huckleberry Finn and we don't have the books,"" or, ""I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope."" You and I can go on and buy it for them. The teacher and the kids write you thank-you notes, sometimes they send pictures of them using the microscope. It's an extraordinary thing. Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking less about ""How can I spend money on myself?"" and more about ""If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?"" Ultimately, when you do that, you'll find you benefit yourself much more. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我今天想講的是有關金錢與快樂這是兩樣我們經常花很多時間去想的事情一是要如何賺取它們或是讓它們變更多而很多人對這句話很有共嗚我們可以在宗教或自助手冊中看到""金錢是買不到快樂的""而我今天想告訴大家，事實上，這是錯的(笑)我是在商學院工作，而研究這些是我們的工作以上那句是錯的。若你想清楚其實你只是沒有把金錢花得對所以，與其花在你經常花的地方裡你可能要花在不同的地方這可能會有一點點的幫助在我告訴你們要如何花錢才能令你更快樂之前試想想你平常是怎樣花錢而沒有讓你更快樂我們做了一個小小的自然實驗CNN，前陣子，有一篇很有趣的文章是人們在贏得樂透後會變成怎樣結果是其他人都認為那些人的生活定必變成更美好而那篇文章是有關他們的生活如何變得糟糕那些中了樂透的人究竟發生什麼事情呢第一，他們把所有的錢花光還欠了一身債第二，所有曾經認識他們的朋友都來問他們要錢而這影響他們的社交關係因此相比他們在中獎之前他們有更多的債和更差的友誼這篇文章有趣的地方是其他人開始回應這篇文章他們不是談論這篇文章如何讓他們明白金錢沒有帶給他們快樂每一個人卻是馬上地開始說若然我中了樂透，我會如何如何....並開始幻想他們會做的事情而這是其中兩個值得我們想一想的回應一人寫著""若然我中了樂透，我會買下一座小山然後在山上建一個小房子。""(笑)而另一人寫著""我會把錢填滿一個大浴缸，然後走進浴缸抽一支大雪茄和啜飲一杯香檳。""而這個更差：我會拍一張照片然後印出幾打。那些向我索錢或嘗試向我敲詐的人將只會得到這張相片而不會有其他。(笑)大部份的評語都是這一類的人們得到金錢事實上，令他們變得反社會。所以我告訴你中獎會令人的生活更差而他們的朋友也開始煩擾他們金錢往往令我們變得更自私而我們只會顧著自己金錢不會令我們更快樂可能是因為我們時常把金錢用在錯誤的地方尤其是我們經常把金錢用在自己身上我很想知道若我們把更多的金錢用在其他人的身上會怎樣與其有了錢而變得反社會不如有了錢後變得更親社會我們便想：讓我們令他們這樣做,看看會是什麽結果。我們讓一些人做他們平常做的把錢花在自己身上然後令一些人把錢分掉然後量度他們的快樂，看看他們實際上是否變得更快樂我們首先是這樣做的在溫哥華的一個早上，我們走到英屬哥倫比亞大學的校園我們找人問他們是否願意參加一項實驗他們都說：""好的。”我們問他們現在有多快樂，然後給他們一個信封而其中一個信封內有紙條寫著在今天下午五時前把金錢花在自己的身上我們給了他們一些例子而那天早上另外的人卻得到一張紙條寫著在今天下午五時前把金錢花在其他人身上信封裡面同樣放了金錢我們巧妙地操控我們給予的金額有些人得到字條和五加元而有些人得到字條和二十加元我們讓他們自由地過他們的一天，任由他們做想做的事情我們發現他們依照我們要他們所做的去做我們晚上致電給他們問他們：“你們把錢花在哪裡，現在你有多快樂？”他們究竟把錢花在哪裡呢?他們都是大學的本科生，所以那些花在自己身上的都是買一些耳環、化妝品之類的東西上有一個女人說她花錢買了一個布娃娃給她姪女有些人把錢給了無家可歸者這裡也有星巴克式的巨大效應(笑)如果你給這些大學生五元就好像給他們一杯咖啡他們會跑到星巴克以最快的速度把它花掉但有些人會把咖啡買給自己，這是普遍的做法而有些人說他們會買咖啡給別人所以同樣的消費目的可以是為了自己或者為了別人想知我們當天完結時打給他們發現了什麼嗎?那些把錢花在其他人身上的人更快樂那些把錢花在自己身上的人沒有分別那樣沒有讓他們不快樂，只是沒有對他們產生影響第二個發現是金錢的數額影響不大有些人會認為二十元會比五元好很多但事實上，你能花多少是沒有影響的有影響的是你花在其他人身上而不是自己身上當我們給錢要他們把金錢花在其他人而不在自己身上這個結果我們重覆又重覆地見到當然他們是加拿大的大學生並不是世界上很有代表性的一群人他們也蠻有錢和富裕等等我們想知道這個理論是否在世界各地都成立或是只在富裕的國家因此我們到了烏干達做了一個類似的實驗試想想，並不只是在加拿大的人我們問：“你們上一次花費是在自己身上還是他人身上說一說。它帶給你多少快樂?”而在烏干達，我們問：“說一說你們上一次花費是花在自己身上還是他人身上。”跟著我們再次問他們有多快樂我們所看到的是有些驚人的因為我們人類如何花錢是有共通的地方的另外又有文化差異影響我們怎樣花錢舉一個例子有一個來自烏干達的男子說""我打給一個我喜歡的女孩""他們经常出去約會但他說到目前為止他仍未""得到""她的歡心而這個來自加拿大的男子說了類似的事情我帶我的女朋友出去吃飯，我們去看電影，我們很早離場，然後回到她的房間...吃蛋糕...只是一片蛋糕（沒有進一步發展）人類的共通點就是我們花錢在其他人身上我們對他們好可能我們心裡有一些目的，又可能沒有但我們見到非常大的區別我們看看這兩個例子她是一個來自加拿大的女人我們問：“試說出你把錢花在別人身上的例子。”她說：“我買了一件禮物給我的媽媽我駕車到一個商場，買了一件禮物送給我的媽媽。”一件非常值得做的事情給一個你認識的人一份禮物是很好的相比這個來自烏干達的女人“我在街上碰到一個老朋友她的兒子患了瘧疾他們沒有錢，他們去了診所然後我給了他們這些錢那不是一萬加元，而是當地的貨幣所以事實上是很少的金錢但有很大不同的動機這是真正的醫療需要簡直是救命錢上一個只是買了一份禮物給媽媽但我們再次見到的是用哪一種的方式把錢用在別人身上並不是最重要而是把錢用在別人身上能令你快樂才是最重要的所以你不用花錢做很偉大的事情才會快樂你只要做一些細微的瑣事也能得到同樣的效果這只是兩個國家我們希望去得更廣，可以的話看看每一個國家裡金錢和快樂的關係我們從蓋洛普組織得到數據那是讓我們知道最近發生的政治數據的機構他們問：”最近你有沒有捐錢給慈善團體呢?“亦問：”你對現在的生活總體感覺有多快樂呢?“而我們從中見到兩者的關係它們是否成正比? 即捐錢會令你快樂還是成反比呢?在這地圖中，綠色代表正比而紅色代表反比如你所見，地圖非常綠差不多在所有的國家從我們得到的數據中那些捐錢的人比沒有捐錢的更為快樂我知道你們會注意地圖中心那個紅色的國家若我不告訴你們那是哪一個國家，我會是很賴皮的人事實上那是中非共和國你可以編出很多故事。或者那裡與眾不同但在它的右下方是盧旺達它是非常綠的所以差不多所有的地方我們都見到捐錢會比留給自己令人更快樂哪麼你的工作又如何？它佔據你生命的一大部分當我們不是與我們認識的人在一起我們想滲入幾間公司進行類似的實驗這是比利時的一支銷售隊伍他們以團隊方式工作，出去尋找業務，并賣給醫生試圖說服醫生買藥我們去看看他們的銷售業績以團隊的一員下賣得如何有一些隊伍，我們給他們個人一些錢並說：”把這些錢隨意地花在你們身上，”就好像我們叫加拿大的大學生那樣做但另一些團隊，我們說：“這是十五元歐元在這個星期把錢花在其中一位隊員身上。”給他們買一份禮物，并送給他們你可以見到，一些隊伍把錢花在自己身上而支持社交的隊伍用錢使團隊更加好我之所以有一個可笑的皮納塔是因為有一支隊伍把錢集合一起買了一個皮納塔然後圍在一起把皮納塔打破，所有的糖果散落這是一件很幼稚的瑣事但想想另外一支沒有這樣做的團隊的分別他們有15元歐元在他們的口袋裡他們可能給他們自己買一杯咖啡或那個有支持社交經驗的團隊把錢合起來買東西來做團體活動我們見到的是支持社交的團隊比那只把錢留著的團隊賣出更多東西用一個方向去想想我們給團隊的每個人15歐元那些把錢放在自己口袋的人，所做的事情跟以前一樣你不會得到任何金錢你事實上失去金錢因為它不能鼓勵他們做得更好但當你把十五元歐羅用在團員身上他們會在團隊中發揮得更好他們把錢這樣的投放會得到更大的成功我想你們或許這樣想它們都很好這是對公共政策非常重要的但我不認為會可行如果他不展示給我看會在那裡可行我是不會相信他所說的我知道你們想著躲避球隊。(笑)我們得到一個巨大的批評如果不能顯示在躲避球隊中，這只是空談所以我們出去找一支躲避球隊然後滲入其中我們做同樣的事情所以有一些隊伍我們給錢要他們花在自己身上另外一些團隊我們給他們錢要他們花在隊友身上那些花錢在自己身上的隊伍他們的獲勝比例跟以前一樣那些把錢花在其他人身上的隊伍他們變成不同的隊伍事實上这样做之后他們在联赛上称霸。因此有不同的背景下你的私生活，你的工作甚至乎一些小事情例如校內體育活動都可見到把錢花在其他人身上很比花在自己身上得到更大的回報因此我想若你認為金錢買不到快樂你只是沒有用得其所關鍵不是你應買這不是那而這會令你更快樂事實上你應停止想著買哪一件東西給自己而是嘗試買東西給別人這裡你們有一個機會DonorsChoose.org是一個非牟利機構主要是為低收入學校中公共學校老師所設。他們會公佈一些項目，例如：我想教哈克貝利費恩給我的學生但我們沒有書本或我需要一個顯微鏡來教我的學生科學但我們沒有顯微鏡你或我可以去買一個給他們那些老師會寫你一個感謝卡。而孩子也會寫你一個感謝卡他們有時會寄你一些拍有他們用顯微鏡的照片這是不可思議的東西去他們的網頁然後開始少想一些你如何把錢花在自己身上而想多一些若我有五美元或十五元美元我可為其他人做什麼因為當你這樣做最終你會得到更多益處謝謝(拍手)"
