Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_botticelli_addiction_is_a_disease_we_should_treat_it_like_one	"Twenty-eight years ago, I was a broken man. And you probably wouldn't be able to tell that if you met me. I had a good job at a well-respected academic institution. I dressed well, of course. But my insides were rotting away. You see, I grew up in a family riddled with addiction, and as a kid, I also struggled with coming to terms with my own sexuality. And even though I couldn't name it then, growing up as a gay kid just compounded my issues of isolation and insecurities. But drinking took all of that away. Like many, I drank at an early age. I continued to drink my way through college. And when I finally did come out in the early 1980s, about the only places to meet other gay people, to socialize, to be yourself, were gay bars. And what do you do in gay bars? You drink. And I did — a lot. My story is not unique. Like millions of Americans, my disease progressed undiagnosed. It took me to people and places and things that I never would have chosen. It wasn't until an intersection with the law gave me an ""opportunity"" to get care, that I began my journey of recovery. My journey of recovery has been filled with love and with joy, but it hasn't been without pain. Like many of you, I've lost too many friends and family to this disease. I've heard too many heartbreaking stories of people who've lost loved ones to addiction. And I've also lost countless friends to HIV and AIDS. Our current opioid epidemic and the AIDS epidemic tragically have much in common. Right now, we are in the midst of one of the greatest health crises of our time. During 2014 alone, 28,000 people died of drug overdoses associated with prescription drugs and heroin. During the 1980s, scores of people were dying from HIV and AIDS. Public officials ignored it. Some wouldn't even utter the words. They didn't want treatment. And tragically, there are many parallels with our current epidemic. Some called it the gay plague. They called for quarantines. They wanted to separate the innocent victims from the rest of us. I was afraid we were losing this battle because people were blaming us for being sick. Public policy was being held hostage by stigma and fear, and also held hostage were compassion, care, research, recovery and treatment. But we changed all that. Because out of the pain of those deaths, we saw a social and political movement. AIDS galvanized us into action; to stand up, to speak up and to act out. And it also galvanized the LGBT movement. We knew we were in a battle for our lives because silence equaled death, but we changed, and we made things happen. And right now, we have the potential to see the end of HIV/AIDS in our lifetime. These changes came in no small part by the courageous, yet simple decision for people to come out to their neighbors, to their friends, to their families and to their coworkers. Years ago, I was a volunteer for the Names Project. This was an effort started by Cleve Jones in San Francisco to show that people who died of AIDS had names and faces and families and people who loved them. I still recall unfolding the AIDS memorial quilt on the National Mall on a brilliant day in October, 1988. So fast forward to 2015. The Supreme Court's decision to strike down the ban on same-sex marriage. My husband, Dave, and I walk over to the steps of the Supreme Court to celebrate that decision with so many other people, and I couldn't help but think how far we came around LGBT rights and yet how far we needed to go around issues of addiction. When I was nominated by President Obama to be his Director of Drug Policy, I was very open about my recovery and about the fact that I was a gay man. And at no point during my confirmation process — at least that I know of — did the fact that I was a gay man come to bear on my candidacy or my fitness to do this job. But my addiction did. At one point, a congressional staffer said that there was no way that I was going to be confirmed by the United States Senate because of my past, despite the fact that I had been in recovery for over 20 years, and despite the fact that this job takes a little bit of knowledge around addiction. (Laughter) So, you know, this is the stigma that people with substance use disorders face every single day, and you know, I have to tell you it's still why I'm more comfortable coming out as a gay man than I am as a person with a history of addiction. Nearly every family in America is affected by addiction. Yet, unfortunately, too often, it's not talked about openly and honestly. It's whispered about. It's met with derision and scorn. We hear these stories, time and time again, on TV, online, we hear it from public officials, and we hear it from family and friends. And those of us with an addiction, we hear those voices, and somehow we believe that we are less deserving of care and treatment. Today in the United States, only one in nine people get care and treatment for their disorder. One in nine. Think about that. Generally, people with other diseases get care and treatment. If you have cancer, you get treatment, if you have diabetes, you get treatment. If you have a heart attack, you get emergency services, and you get referred to care. But somehow people with addiction have to wait for treatment or often can't get when they need it. And left untreated, addiction has significant, dire consequences. And for many people that means death or incarceration. We've been down that road before. For too long our country felt like we could arrest our way out of this problem. But we know that we can't. Decades of scientific research has shown that this is a medical issue — that this is a chronic medical condition that people inherit and that people develop. So the Obama administration has taken a different tack on drug policy. We've developed and implemented a comprehensive plan to expand prevention services, treatment services, early intervention and recovery support. We've pushed criminal justice reform. We've knocked down barriers to give people second chances. We see public health and public safety officials working hand in hand at the community level. We see police chiefs across the country guiding people to treatment instead of jail and incarceration. We see law enforcement and other first responders reversing overdoses with naloxone to give people a second chance for care. The Affordable Care Act is the biggest expansion of substance use disorder treatment in a generation, and it also calls for the integration of treatment services within primary care. But fundamentally, all of this work is not enough. Unless we change the way that we view people with addiction in the United States. Years ago when I finally understood that I had a problem and I knew that I needed help, I was too afraid to ask for it. I felt that people would think I was stupid, that I was weak-willed, that I was morally flawed. But I talk about my recovery because I want to make change. I want us to see that we need to be open and candid about who we are and what we can do. I am public about my own recovery not to be self-congratulatory. I am open about my own recovery to change public opinion, to change public policy and to change the course of this epidemic and empower the millions of Americans who struggle with this journey to be open and candid about who they are. People are more than their disease. And all of us have the opportunity to change public opinion and to change public policy. All of us know someone who has an addiction, and all of us can do our part to change how we view people with addiction in the United States. So when you see someone with an addiction, don't think of a drunk or a junkie or an addict or an abuser — see a person; offer them help; give them kindness and compassion. And together, we can be part of a growing movement in the United States to change how we view people with addiction. Together we can change public policy. We can ensure that people get care when they need it, just like any other disease. We can be part of a growing, unstoppable movement to have millions of Americans enter recovery, and put an end to this epidemic. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	二十八年前，我的內心充滿絕望。但是當你遇見我時，可能根本看不出來。我有一份很好的工作，任職於受人尊敬的學術機構。當然，我的外表光鮮亮麗。但是我的內心腐朽不堪。我生長在一個充滿物質成癮的家庭，在孩童時期，我也因為自己的性傾向而內心充滿掙扎。儘管當時的我，並不知道這是怎麼回事，但是身為一個同性戀者，成長只是加劇了我的孤立和不安。但是喝酒，能帶走這些感覺。 和許多人一樣，我很早就開始喝酒。我的整個大學生涯，也持續在喝酒。在 80 年代初期，我終於決定出櫃，而當時只有在同性戀酒吧，才能遇到其他同性戀者，與他人來往，或是作回我自己。你在同性戀酒吧會做什麼？喝酒。我也是，而且喝了很多。 我的故事並不獨特。就和數百萬計的美國人一樣，我的酒癮在不知不覺中逐漸惡化。它把我帶領到，我絕對不想選擇的人、地和事物。直到我觸犯法律，給了我一個接受治療的「機會」，於是開始了我的戒除成癮之旅。 我的戒癮之旅充滿了愛和喜悅，但它並非沒有痛苦。和你們當中的許多人一樣，成癮問題讓我失去太多朋友和家人，我聽過太多人的心碎故事，都是由於物質成癮，而失去所愛的人。我也有數不清的朋友感染愛滋病毒和愛滋病而死。 不幸的是，我們目前的鴉片成癮和愛滋病，兩者擁有許多共同之處。現在，我們正處於當代最大的健康危機之中。光是在 2014 年，就有 28000 人由於過量使用處方藥和海洛因導致死亡。在 1980 年代，很多人因感染愛滋病毒和愛滋病而死亡。政府官員視而不見。有些官員甚至避而不談。他們不想面對。而可悲的是，這與目前物質成癮的流行有許多相似之處。有些人將同性戀視為瘟疫。他們要求隔離同性戀者。他們希望將這些無辜的犧牲者與其他的民眾隔離。我很擔心我們正在從這場戰役中落敗，因為人們責怪我們帶來疾病。羞辱和恐懼不止綁架了公共政策，也綁架了同情，關懷，研究，戒癮和治療。 但是，我們改變了這一切。因為從這些生離死別的痛苦中，我們看到了社會和政治運動正在興起。愛滋病促使我們行動，讓我們站起來，大聲說出口，並付諸行動。而這也激勵了同志文化運動。我們知道，我們正在為自己的生命而戰鬥，因為沉默等於死亡；但我們要改變，我們要讓改變發生。而現在，我們有希望看到愛滋病毒及愛滋病在我們有生之年消失。這些改變，是由一大群人作出一項勇敢卻簡單的決定：他們公開宣告出櫃，直接面對他們的鄰居、他們的朋友、他們的家人，以及他們的同事。 好幾年前，我是「名冊計劃」的志工。這項由克利夫·瓊斯在舊金山發起的活動，展示了死於愛滋病的患者他們的名字、他們的臉孔、他們的家人以及喜愛他們的人。我還記得，當愛滋紀念拼布在國家廣場展開時的情景，那是在 1988 年 10 月，充滿光輝的一天。 接著我們很快來到 2015 年。根據最高法院的決定，推翻了同性婚姻禁令。我的丈夫戴夫，和我一起走到最高法院外的階梯，和許多人一同慶祝這項決定，我忍不住想起，我們走了多遠的路，來捍衛同志族群的權利；而對於全國各地的成癮問題，我們仍然有很遠的路要走。 當我被歐巴馬總統提名，擔任他的毒品管制政策主任時，我完全公開了我的戒癮過程，以及身為同性戀者的事實。在國會的審查過程中，從頭到尾都沒有──至少就我所知──沒有因為我是同性戀者的事實而影響我的候選資格，或者我擔任這項職務的能力。但是我的成癮記錄卻受到質疑。有一次，一名國會助理表示「不可能」。由於我過去的成癮記錄，我不可能通過美國參議院的同意任命，儘管事實上我已經戒除成癮二十多年，儘管擔任這項職務，需要對於成癮有一點瞭解。 （笑聲） 所以，你知道，對於物質使用成癮的人來說，這是每一天都得面對的污名，而且你知道嗎？我必須告訴你，這就是為什麼我覺得出櫃承認自己是同性戀，會比承認自己的成癮歷史，來得舒服一些。 幾乎每個美國家庭，都受到物質成癮的影響。然而，不幸的是，很多時候，這個話題無法被開誠佈公地討論。它只能在私底下討論。它還遭受到嘲諷和鄙視。一次又一次，我們從電視上、網路上、從政府官員，或是家人和朋友口中，聽到這些故事。對於我們這些成癮者來說，不知為何，這些聲音卻讓我們相信，我們並不值得受到照顧和治療。如今在美國，九個成癮者當中，只有一位能得到照顧和治療。只有 1/9。想想看。 一般來說，人們得到其他疾病，都能得到照顧和治療。如果你有癌症，你得到治療；如果你有糖尿病，你得到治療。如果你的心臟病發作，你會接受急救，並且得到後續照顧。但不知何故，成癮的人需要治療時，他們必須等待，甚至經常得不到治療。而成癮患者如果沒有即時接受治療，將會造成嚴重、可怕的後果。對許多人來說，結局就是死亡或被監禁。我們一直走在這條道路上。 長期以來，我們的國家認為，我們可以藉由逮捕成癮者，來解決這個問題。但我們很清楚，我們做不到。數十年來的科學研究顯示，這是一個醫學問題──這是一種慢性疾病，而且一代傳一代，不斷地發展。 因此歐巴馬政府對於毒品管制政策，採取了不同的方針。我們制定並實施了更為廣泛的計畫，包括擴大預防服務，治療服務，早期介入，以及戒癮支持。我們推動刑事司法改革。我們排除萬難，給人們重生的機會。我們看到，公共衛生與公共安全官員在社區層面攜手合作。我們看到全國各地的警察局長，引導人們進行治療，而不是將他們關進監牢。我們看到執法部門與第一線的急救人員，使用納洛酮救回成癮者，給他們後續治療、獲得重生的機會。歐巴馬的「可負擔健保法案」，對於物質濫用成癮的治療，是本世紀最大的突破，並且要求將成癮治療納入基本的保險給付範圍。但是從根本來說，所有這些工作仍然不夠。除非我們能改變整個美國看待成癮者的方式。 幾年前，當我意識到我有問題時，我知道我需要幫助，但是我害怕尋求協助。我覺得人們會認為我很愚蠢，意志薄弱，我在道德上是有缺陷的。但是，我會談論我是如何戒癮，因為我想作出改變。我希望讓大家看到，我們需要開誠佈公，說出我們是誰，以及我們能做些什麼。我公開自己的戒癮過程，不是為了自我誇耀。我公開自己的戒癮過程，是為了改變輿論，改變公共政策，改變這個流行病的歷程，並對於還在這條路上奮鬥的數百萬美國人，給他們力量，讓他們能坦率地說出自己是誰。我們應該重視人，更勝於重視疾病。我們大家都有機會可以改變大眾的觀念，改變公共政策。 我們所有人都知道哪些人成癮；我們所有人，都可以盡自己的一分力量，改變美國看待成癮者的方式。所以當你看到某位成癮者時，不要只想到他是一位酒鬼、煙毒犯、癮君子或是藥物濫用者，把他視為一個人，給他們幫助，給他們友善和同情。同時，我們可以成為美國正在持續增長的浪潮當中的一份子，改變我們看待成癮者的方式。 我們可以一起改變公共政策。我們可以確保人們在需要時得到照顧，就像任何其他疾病一樣。我們可以成為這股不斷增長、無法阻擋浪潮的一份子，讓數百萬美國人進入戒癮之路，並且結束物質成癮的流行。 非常感謝大家。（掌聲）
