Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_hansmeyer_building_unimaginable_shapes	As an architect, I often ask myself, what is the origin of the forms that we design? What kind of forms could we design if we wouldn't work with references anymore? If we had no bias, if we had no preconceptions, what kind of forms could we design if we could free ourselves from our experience? If we could free ourselves from our education? What would these unseen forms look like? Would they surprise us? Would they intrigue us? Would they delight us? If so, then how can we go about creating something that is truly new? I propose we look to nature. Nature has been called the greatest architect of forms. And I'm not saying that we should copy nature, I'm not saying we should mimic biology, instead I propose that we can borrow nature's processes. We can abstract them and to create something that is new. Nature's main process of creation, morphogenesis, is the splitting of one cell into two cells. And these cells can either be identical, or they can be distinct from each other through asymmetric cell division. If we abstract this process, and simplify it as much as possible, then we could start with a single sheet of paper, one surface, and we could make a fold and divide the surface into two surfaces. We're free to choose where we make the fold. And by doing so, we can differentiate the surfaces. Through this very simple process, we can create an astounding variety of forms. Now, we can take this form and use the same process to generate three-dimensional structures, but rather than folding things by hand, we'll bring the structure into the computer, and code it as an algorithm. And in doing so, we can suddenly fold anything. We can fold a million times faster, we can fold in hundreds and hundreds of variations. And as we're seeking to make something three-dimensional, we start not with a single surface, but with a volume. A simple volume, the cube. If we take its surfaces and fold them again and again and again and again, then after 16 iterations, 16 steps, we end up with 400,000 surfaces and a shape that looks, for instance, like this. And if we change where we make the folds, if we change the folding ratio, then this cube turns into this one. We can change the folding ratio again to produce this shape, or this shape. So we exert control over the form by specifying the position of where we're making the fold, but essentially you're looking at a folded cube. And we can play with this. We can apply different folding ratios to different parts of the form to create local conditions. We can begin to sculpt the form. And because we're doing the folding on the computer, we are completely free of any physical constraints. So that means that surfaces can intersect themselves, they can become impossibly small. We can make folds that we otherwise could not make. Surfaces can become porous. They can stretch. They can tear. And all of this expounds the scope of forms that we can produce. But in each case, I didn't design the form. I designed the process that generated the form. In general, if we make a small change to the folding ratio, which is what you're seeing here, then the form changes correspondingly. But that's only half of the story — 99.9 percent of the folding ratios produce not this, but this, the geometric equivalent of noise. The forms that I showed before were made actually through very long trial and error. A far more effective way to create forms, I have found, is to use information that is already contained in forms. A very simple form such as this one actually contains a lot of information that may not be visible to the human eye. So, for instance, we can plot the length of the edges. White surfaces have long edges, black ones have short ones. We can plot the planarity of the surfaces, their curvature, how radial they are — all information that may not be instantly visible to you, but that we can bring out, that we can articulate, and that we can use to control the folding. So now I'm not specifying a single ratio anymore to fold it, but instead I'm establishing a rule, I'm establishing a link between a property of a surface and how that surface is folded. And because I've designed the process and not the form, I can run the process again and again and again to produce a whole family of forms. These forms look elaborate, but the process is a very minimal one. There is a simple input, it's always a cube that I start with, and it's a very simple operation — it's making a fold, and doing this over and over again. So let's bring this process to architecture. How? And at what scale? I chose to design a column. Columns are architectural archetypes. They've been used throughout history to express ideals about beauty, about technology. A challenge to me was how we could express this new algorithmic order in a column. I started using four cylinders. Through a lot of experimentation, these cylinders eventually evolved into this. And these columns, they have information at very many scales. We can begin to zoom into them. The closer one gets, the more new features one discovers. Some formations are almost at the threshold of human visibility. And unlike traditional architecture, it's a single process that creates both the overall form and the microscopic surface detail. These forms are undrawable. An architect who's drawing them with a pen and a paper would probably take months, or it would take even a year to draw all the sections, all of the elevations, you can only create something like this through an algorithm. The more interesting question, perhaps, is, are these forms imaginable? Usually, an architect can somehow envision the end state of what he is designing. In this case, the process is deterministic. There's no randomness involved at all, but it's not entirely predictable. There's too many surfaces, there's too much detail, one can't see the end state. So this leads to a new role for the architect. One needs a new method to explore all of the possibilities that are out there. For one thing, one can design many variants of a form, in parallel, and one can cultivate them. And to go back to the analogy with nature, one can begin to think in terms of populations, one can talk about permutations, about generations, about crossing and breeding to come up with a design. And the architect is really, he moves into the position of being an orchestrator of all of these processes. But enough of the theory. At one point I simply wanted to jump inside this image, so to say, I bought these red and blue 3D glasses, got up very close to the screen, but still that wasn't the same as being able to walk around and touch things. So there was only one possibility — to bring the column out of the computer. There's been a lot of talk now about 3D printing. For me, or for my purpose at this moment, there's still too much of an unfavorable tradeoff between scale, on the one hand, and resolution and speed, on the other. So instead, we decided to take the column, and we decided to build it as a layered model, made out of very many slices, thinly stacked over each other. What you're looking at here is an X-ray of the column that you just saw, viewed from the top. Unbeknownst to me at the time, because we had only seen the outside, the surfaces were continuing to fold themselves, to grow on the inside of the column, which was quite a surprising discovery. From this shape, we calculated a cutting line, and then we gave this cutting line to a laser cutter to produce — and you're seeing a segment of it here — very many thin slices, individually cut, on top of each other. And this is a photo now, it's not a rendering, and the column that we ended up with after a lot of work, ended up looking remarkably like the one that we had designed in the computer. Almost all of the details, almost all of the surface intricacies were preserved. But it was very labor intensive. There's a huge disconnect at the moment still between the virtual and the physical. It took me several months to design the column, but ultimately it takes the computer about 30 seconds to calculate all of the 16 million faces. The physical model, on the other hand, is 2,700 layers, one millimeter thick, it weighs 700 kilos, it's made of sheet that can cover this entire auditorium. And the cutting path that the laser followed goes from here to the airport and back again. But it is increasingly possible. Machines are getting faster, it's getting less expensive, and there's some promising technological developments just on the horizon. These are images from the Gwangju Biennale. And in this case, I used ABS plastic to produce the columns, we used the bigger, faster machine, and they have a steel core inside, so they're structural, they can bear loads for once. Each column is effectively a hybrid of two columns. You can see a different column in the mirror, if there's a mirror behind the column that creates a sort of an optical illusion. So where does this leave us? I think this project gives us a glimpse of the unseen objects that await us if we as architects begin to think about designing not the object, but a process to generate objects. I've shown one simple process that was inspired by nature; there's countless other ones. In short, we have no constraints. Instead, we have processes in our hands right now that allow us to create structures at all scales that we couldn't even have dreamt up. And, if I may add, at one point we will build them. Thank you. (Applause)	身為一名建築師，我經常問我自己什麼是我們設計的源頭如果完全不參考其它作品我們會設計出什麼樣式呢?如果我們沒有偏好，沒有先入為主的印象我們會設計出什麼的形體？假如 我們將自已從積累的經驗中解錮出來或跳出教育的框架呢?這前所未見的形式 看起來會像是甚麼會帶給我們驚喜嗎? 會讓我們感興趣嗎？它會讓我們感到歡欣嗎若是如此， 我們該如何著手開創全新的東西呢？ 我建議師法大自然大自然是最偉大的形態建築師在這裡，我並不建議僅僅複製大自然我不是說我們應該抄襲自然生物相反地，我希望我們能借鑒大自然造物的過程。從中擷取，並創造出全新的形態大自然主要的創造過程，最初的形體生成是將細胞一分為二。而這些細胞不是完全相同，就是透過不對稱細胞分裂形成完全不同的形態 假使我們能擷取這個過程並盡可能簡化它，那麼，我們便能簡單地從一張紙和一個面向開始，利用摺疊將一個面分為兩個面向。我們可以自由選擇要如何對摺並藉此區別各面向。透過這個簡單的步驟，我們能創造出令人驚艷的各種形態。 現在，我們可以利用這個形態和相同步驟來創造出三度空間立體的架構但並不是徒手摺疊而是將這個結構輸入到電腦並把它編碼成一個演算法。如此一來，我們就能瞬間摺疊任何東西。我們摺疊的速度可以快上百萬倍，我們可以摺疊出成千上萬的變化， 而當我們企圖創造一些三度空間的立體物件時，就不再是從單一平面開始，而是從體積開始，以簡單的立方體為例。假使我們將其平面不斷、不斷、不斷、不斷地經過16次的反覆摺疊後，最後會得到400,000個面向，以及一個看起來譬如說，像這樣的形態。假設我們改變摺疊處，或是摺疊的比例，那這個立方體就會變成這樣。我們再一次改變摺疊比例可以得到這個、或是這個形狀。 因此，我們便能藉由針對特定的摺疊位置施行對這個形體的控制。但本質上來說，你看到的還是一個摺疊過的立方體。我們可以這樣做，我們可以在立方體的不同部位運用不同摺疊比例，來創造出局部變化。我們可以開始雕塑這個形體。 由於我們是在電腦上進行摺疊，所以完全沒有任何實體上的限制。這意味著，各面向能夠自行交叉貫穿，變成近乎不可能的小。我們能夠做到過去無法達成的摺疊方式。平面變成能穿透的。它們能夠伸展、能夠被撕裂。而這一切說明了我們所能創造的形態範圍。 但在每個作品中，我並不設計形態。我設計的是一個產生型態的過程。一般而言，假設我們把摺疊比例作一個小小的改變，就像你在這裡看到的，整個形態也會相對應地產生改變。 但這才說到一半而已—百分之九十九點九的摺疊比例所產生的並非如此，而是像這樣，等同幾何學中的噪音干擾。我之前所展示的形態，事實上是歷經很長一段時間的試驗及失敗後才得到的。我發現到，一個較有效的形態創作法，是利用形體本身已存在的素材。像這一個非常簡單的形體，實際上，含有許多肉眼可能不能看見的素材。舉例來說，我們能標繪邊長，白色區塊部份是長邊；黑色區塊則是短邊。我們能夠標繪表面的平坦性、彎曲度、半徑範圍以及半徑－而上述所有資料或許並非馬上可以看見的，但我們能把它們拿出來、把它們闡釋、把它們這些資料用來控制摺疊的方式。 因此，我現在不再特定一個單一比例去作摺疊，而是建立一套規則，在平面特性與與摺疊方式之間建立一個連結。由於，我設計的是過程，而非形體本身，所以，我可以一而再地運用此過程創作出一整組形體。 這些形體看起來非常複雜，但過程卻極其簡單。只要一個簡單的輸入，我永遠從一個立方體開始著手，然後是一個簡單的運作－開始摺疊，並一直不斷的重複。 現在，將這套過程運用在建築學上，怎麼做？到何等規模？我選擇設計圓柱。圓柱是建築學的原形。從古至今，皆可看見圓柱被運用來表現美學概念或工藝手法。而我面臨的挑戰是，如何將這創新的演算模式套用於圓柱的創造。我先從四個圓柱著手，歷經無數的實驗，這些圓柱最後變得像現在這樣。 而這些圓柱處處充滿著可供運用的資訊。我們可以靠近一點來看。越靠近看，越能發現新的特色。有些結構幾乎是肉眼看不見的。而且不像傳統的建築結構，這是一個兼具總體構造及精細外觀處理的和精細外觀的單一創造過程。這些構造形式是無法被繪製的。建築師用紙筆描繪它們時，可能要花上數個月的時間，甚至，也可能花上整年時間才能描繪所有區塊。透過演算規則，你只能得到像這樣的的立視圖。 但更有趣的問題，或許是這些形式是否能想像出來？通常，建築師能夠多多少少預視一些他的設計物件最終的樣貌。但在此，這個預視方法是確切的。其中完全沒有隨機不可測之處，但又非全然可測。有太多的面向，有太多的細節，讓人無法一窺最終全貌。 因此，這給建築師們帶來一個新角色。建築師需要一個可以綜觀所有可能的新方法可以立即使用一個人可以為一個形體設計各種可能性，同樣地，他也可以創造它們。現在回到自然界的相似性，可以想想人口問題，可以談談世代交替、談談想法交流延伸最終得出一個設計。而建築師事實上，一如交響樂家，擔負起總合這些所有過程的職責。 但說夠了理論。有一度我真想跳入這個影像。這麼說吧！我買了這些紅色藍色的3D眼鏡，非常非常貼近螢幕，但這還是和可以四處走動觸摸東西的感覺不一樣。因此，只剩一種可能－把圓柱從電腦裡拿出來。 現在有很多人談論3D輸出。對我，或是對我當下目的而言，一方面，在規模上，另一方面，在解析度和速度上，還是有著太多無法兩全其美的缺點。與其如此，我們決定把圓柱當成一個層層疊疊的結構物，用很多薄片，輕輕地堆疊建立。 你現在看到的是剛才那根圓柱由上而下照的的X光片。因為我們只見過圓柱的外觀，所以我那時並不知道，表面會持續地自我摺疊在圓柱的內裡延展，這是一個十分讓人驚訝地發現。我們在這個形狀上計算了切割線，然後把它輸入雷射切割機來做切割，你在這裡可以看到其中一部分，許多單獨裁切的薄片，堆疊在一起。 這是最後的成果照，絕非造假，而我們大費周張後得到的圓柱，看起來就和我們在電腦中所設計的一模一樣。幾乎所有的小細節、幾乎所有的複雜處都被保留了下來。 但過程非常耗費人力。在虛擬和實體間也仍舊存在著巨大的差距。我花了好幾個月來設計這個圓柱，卻只花了電腦大約30秒時間就計算出了圓柱上全部一千六百萬個表面。另一方面，實體的模型總共有2,700層、一釐米厚、總重七百公斤、平展開來足以鋪滿這整間演講廳的圓片。雷射切割機來來回回所切割的總長等於是這裡到機場的來回距離。 但這愈來愈可能做到了。機械速度越來越快，也越來越便宜，還有一些極具展望的科技產品正逐漸展露頭角。這些是光州美術館交換計畫的照片。我在這裡用的是ABS塑膠來製作圓柱，我們用了更大、更快的機器，因為裝有鋼鐵核心，所以可以用於建築，足以一次承擔高工作量。每根圓柱實際上結合了兩根圓柱。你可以在鏡子裡看到另一根不同的圓柱，如果圓柱後面有一面鏡子的話，就可以創造些許視覺錯覺。 所以這告訴我們什麼？我認為這個計畫讓我們得以一窺原本不可見的事物，如果我們這些建築師可以開始思考，如何設計產生物體的過程，而非設計物體本身。我今天展示了一種借鏡於大自然的簡單方法還有許許多多種其他創造法。簡單來說，我們毫無所限。現在擁有的，反而是讓我們能夠創造各種之前連想都想不到物體的方法。最後，容我再說一句，早晚，我們也將會建造出它們。 謝謝。（掌聲）
