Talk	en	zh-tw
michael_metcalfe_we_need_money_for_aid_so_let_s_print_it	"Thirteen years ago, we set ourselves a goal to end poverty. After some success, we've hit a big hurdle. The aftermath of the financial crisis has begun to hit aid payments, which have fallen for two consecutive years. My question is whether the lessons learned from saving the financial system can be used to help us overcome that hurdle and help millions. Can we simply print money for aid? ""Surely not."" It's a common reaction. (Laughter) It's a quick talk. Others channel John McEnroe. ""You cannot be serious!"" Now, I can't do the accent, but I am serious, thanks to these two children, who, as you'll learn, are very much at the heart of my talk. On the left, we have Pia. She lives in England. She has two loving parents, one of whom is standing right here. Dorothy, on the right, lives in rural Kenya. She's one of 13,000 orphans and vulnerable children who are assisted by a charity that I support. I do that because I believe that Dorothy, like Pia, deserves the best life chances that we can afford to give her. You'll all agree with me, I'm sure. The U.N. agrees too. Their overriding aim for international aid is to strive for a life of dignity for all. But — and here's that hurdle — can we afford our aid aspirations? History suggests not. In 1970, governments set themselves a target to increase overseas aid payments to 0.7 percent of their national income. As you can see, a big gap opens up between actual aid and that target. But then come the Millennium Development Goals, eight ambitious targets to be met by 2015. If I tell you that just one of those targets is to eradicate extreme hunger and poverty, you get a sense of the ambition. There's also been some success. The number of people living on less than $1.25 a day has halved. But a lot remains to be done in two years. One in eight remain hungry. In the context of this auditorium, the front two rows aren't going to get any food. We can't settle for that, which is why the concern about the eighth goal, which relates to funding, which I said at the beginning is falling, is so troubling. So what can be done? Well, I work in financial markets, not development. I study the behavior of investors, how they react to policy and the economy. It gives me a different angle on the aid issue. But it took an innocent question from my then-four-year-old daughter to make me appreciate that. Pia and I were on the way to a local cafe and we passed a man collecting for charity. I didn't have any change to give him, and she was disappointed. Once in the cafe, Pia takes out her coloring book and starts scribbling. After a little while, I ask her what she's doing, and she shows me a drawing of a £5 note to give to the man outside. It's so sweet, and more generous than Dad would have been. But of course I explained to her, ""You can't do that; it's not allowed."" To which I get the classic four-year-old response: ""Why not?"" Now I'm excited, because I actually think I can answer this time. So I launch into an explanation of how an unlimited supply of money chasing a limited number of goods sends prices to the moon. Something about that exchange stuck with me, not because of the look of relief on Pia's face when I finally finished, but because it related to the sanctity of the money supply, a sanctity that had been challenged and questioned by the reaction of central banks to the financial crisis. To reassure investors, central banks began buying assets to try and encourage investors to do the same. They funded these purchases with money they created themselves. The money wasn't actually physically printed. It's still sort of locked away in the banking system today. But the amount created was unprecedented. Together, the central banks of the U.S., U.K and Japan increased the stock of money in their economies by 3.7 trillion dollars. That's three times, in fact that's more than three times, the total physical stock of dollar notes in circulation. Three times! Before the crisis, this would have been utterly unthinkable, yet it was accepted remarkably quickly. The price of gold, an asset thought to protect against inflation, did jump, but investors bought other assets that offered little protection from inflation. They bought fixed income securities, bonds. They bought equities too. For all the scare stories, the actual actions of investors spoke of rapid acceptance and confidence. That confidence was based on two pillars. The first was that, after years of keeping inflation under control, central banks were trusted to take the money-printing away if inflation became a threat. Secondly, inflation simply never became a threat. As you can see, in the United States, inflation for most of this period remained below average. It was the same elsewhere. So how does all this relate to aid? Well, this is where Dorothy and the Mango Tree charity that supports her comes in. I was at one of their fundraising events earlier this year, and I was inspired to give a one-off donation when I remembered that my firm offers to match the charitable contributions its employees make. So think of this: Instead of just being able to help Dorothy and four of her classmates to go through secondary school for a few years, I was able to double my contribution. Brilliant. So following that conversation with my daughter, and seeing the absence of inflation in the face of money-printing, and knowing that international aid payments were falling at just the wrong time, this made me wonder: Could we match but just on a much grander scale? Let's call this scheme ""Print Aid."" And here's how it might work. Provided it saw little inflation risk from doing so, the central bank would be mandated to match the government's overseas aid payments up to a certain limit. Governments have been aiming to get aid to 0.7 percent for years, so let's set the limit at half of that, 0.35 percent of their income. So it would work like this: If in a given year the government gave 0.2 percent of its income to overseas aid, the central bank would simply top it up with a further 0.2 percent. So far so good. How risky is this? Well, this involves the creation of money to buy goods, not assets. It sounds more inflationary already, doesn't it. But there are two important mitigating factors here. The first is that by definition, this money printed would be spent overseas. So it's not obvious how it leads to inflation in the country doing the actual printing unless it leads to a currency depreciation of that country. That is unlikely for the second reason: the scale of the money that would be printed under this scheme. So let's think of an example where Print Aid was in place in the U.S., U.K. and Japan. To match the aid payments made by those governments over the last four years, Print Aid would have generated 200 billion dollars' worth of extra aid. What would that look like in the context of the increase in the money stock that had already happened in those countries to save the financial system? Are you read for this? You might struggle to see that at the back, because the gap is quite small. So what we're saying here is that we took a $3.7 trillion gamble to save our financial systems, and you know what, it paid off. There was no inflation. Are we really saying that it's not worth the risk to print an extra 200 billion for aid? Would the risks really be that different? To me, it's not that clear. What is clear is the impact on aid. Even though this is the printing of just three central banks, the global aid that's given over this period is up by almost 40 percent. Aid as a proportion of national income all of a sudden is at a 40-year high. Now, we don't get to 0.7 percent. Governments are still incentivized to give. But you know what, that's the  point of a matching scheme. So I think what we've learned is that the risks from this money creation scheme are quite modest, but the benefits are potentially huge. Imagine what we could do with 40 percent more funding. We might be able to feed the front row. The thing that I fear, the only thing that I fear, apart from the fact that I've run out of time, is that the window of opportunity for this idea is a short one. Today, money creation by central banks is an accepted policy tool. That may not always be the case. Today there are universally agreed aims for international aid. That may not always be the case. Today might be the only time that these two things coincide, such that we can afford the aid that we've always aspired to give. So, can we print money for international aid? I seriously believe the question should be, why not? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	十三年前我們為自己設立了終止貧窮的目標。在幾次成功的經驗後，我們遇上了大障礙。財務危機的餘波開始影響救濟金，目前已經連續兩年金額不足。我想問的問題是我們在拯救金融系統中學到的教訓是否能幫助我們解決這個障礙，且幫助數以萬計需要援助的人？我們是否可以光靠「印鈔票」來解決問題？ 「當然不行！」這是最常見的反應。(觀眾笑聲)「只是說說罷了別當真。」有些人可能會用約翰‧麥可恩洛的口氣這麼回答...「你肯定在開玩笑！」 我學不上他的語氣，但我沒在開玩笑，幸虧有這兩位小孩，你們等等會明白他們是我這段演講的主角。左邊這位是皮雅，她住在英格蘭，有和藹可親的雙親，其中一位正站在這個講台上。右邊這位是桃樂思住在肯亞農村，她是一萬三千名孤兒中的其中一名，是位孤苦無依的小孩，目前正由我支持的慈善機構協助。我會這麼做是因為，我相信桃樂思就跟皮雅一樣，值得擁有更好的人生機會，如果我們可以負擔得起她們的生活。你們大家都會同意我的看法，這點我肯定，聯合國也同意。他們針對國際援助上跨領域的目標便是為每個人爭取生存尊嚴。 不過...出現障礙了，我們要如何擔負起這股對援助的熱心？歷史證據顯示，我們辦不到。1970年，政府設立一個目標，將海外援助津貼數值增加到國民收入的百分之0.7(%)。誠如你們看到的，在實際援助經費與目標數值之間有條巨大的鴻溝。不過在這之後我們推行千禧發展目標，八項充滿企圖心的目標打算在2015年完全落實。如果我告訴你其中一個目標是要徹底根除飢餓與貧窮，你馬上就能感受到設立這些目標的雄心。過去有些成功的案例。全球每天只靠1.25美元維生的人數已經減少一半，但還是有許多問題需要接下來兩年的時間來作改善。全球每8個人中就有1個人受挨餓。以這個講廳來給你們打比方，這代表著前兩排的觀眾會沒有食物可吃，我們不能滿足於這樣的事實，因此我們的第八項目標設立的中旨跟金援補助有關，我在前面已提到，它正在下降，這著實令人不安。 所以能做甚麼來補救呢？我曾任職於金融市場，與它的發展無關，我研究投資者行為，研究他們對政策與經濟環境會有甚麼反應。這讓我能以不同的角度來協助援助金議題的運作。我女兒在四歲時曾問我一個聽起來天真的問題，卻讓我有如當頭棒喝。 皮雅和我在到咖啡廳的途中，我們遇到一位男士正為慈善機構募款。我身上沒有零錢可以給他，皮雅覺得很失望。進到咖啡廳時皮雅拿出插畫本開始塗鴉。一會後，我問她在做甚麼，皮雅將她的畫遞過來給我，是一張五鎊的紙鈔，想給剛剛那位在募款的男人。這舉動真的貼心，比任何人的爸爸都還要來的慷慨。不過，當然，我對她解釋：「你不能這麼做，這是不被允許的。」接著我得到所有四歲小孩都會有的反應：「為什麼不行？」這時我感到興奮，因為我知道這次我知道怎麼回答這個問題。所以我開始對她解釋為甚麼不行，如果現金無限供應，商品價格會隨著有限的物資上漲，這會使商品價格漲到月球那麼高。 這個銀貨兩訖的概念讓我停頓了一會，並不是因為在我解釋完畢看到皮雅臉上露出恍然大悟的表情，卻是因為這個概念讓我聯想起獲取金錢來源的道德觀，這個道德觀一直以來備受中央銀行質疑與挑戰對金錢供需配給的態度導致金融財務危機。為了讓投資者安心，中央銀行開始買各項資產，只為了鼓勵投資者一同跟進，他們針對某些資產購置進行補助，用那些從投資無形資產中錢滾出來的錢。這類錢滾錢的獲利從未被實體印製出來，直到今日這些錢仍舊卡在銀行系統中循環。不過這些錢滾錢所製造出來的數目之大是史無前例！美國、英國與日本...等這些國家中央銀行在他們經濟中總共增加了3兆7000億美元之多。這是三倍！事實上...比三倍還多！比起實體流通的貨幣... 多出三倍。三倍之多！ 在金融危機之前，不會有人想得到這個數字，但大眾也很快視為理所當然。黃金的價格被用來當作抵制通貨膨脹的資產，出現上漲趨勢，但投資者買下其它資產，那些資產只對市場通貨膨脹有一些保護作用。他們大筆買進固定收入證券、債券...... 也投資股票。所有恐怖故事當中，投資者的實際行為都說明了迅速的接受和信任。 投資者的投資信心主要建立在兩個基礎上。第一個基礎便是中央銀行經過幾年控管通貨膨脹成效穩定，大眾信任並授權中央銀行在通貨膨脹發生時有停止印鈔票的權力，前提是通貨膨脹變成威脅第二個基礎是通貨膨脹有史以來並未構成重大威脅。你們看看目前的美國市場，通貨膨脹在這個時期大部分時間維持在平均數之下。這情形在世界各地皆如此。 所以這一切又如何跟金援扯上關係？很好，這就是桃樂思跟支持她生計的芒果樹基金會來到我談話重點的時刻。當時我人在募款活動現場，在今年初的時候我受感動後捐出一次性的樂捐，當我想起我任職公司提出加倍員工募款金額的捐款制度。所以這裡請大家思考一下：以我的能力僅能提供桃樂思和她的四位同學接受沒幾年的高中教育，但現在我有能力將捐款金額多增加到兩倍之多真棒！ 在跟我女兒那段談話後看見政府決定停止印製鈔票後，通貨膨脹並沒有發生的情況下，又查覺到國際援助基金正在一個錯誤的時間裡縮減中，這使我反思：我們可以用更大規模的計劃來加倍援助金額嗎？且讓我捫這麼稱呼這個計畫為「印鈔援助金計劃」，此計畫的運作方式會這麼進行。假設進行大規模金援印鈔引發通貨膨脹的風險不大，中央銀行會依照指示將加倍國際援助金，增加到一定額度。政府持續瞄準0.7%的援助金目標，行年已久，不如這樣，我們將這個目標打對折，從年度全國國民收入中抽出0.35%。這比金額會如此分配：假設在某一定年度的收入中，政府分配0.2%的收入至海外援助基金會，當地中央銀行會加倍這比款項數目，等同於多捐出0.2%的金額數目給當地援助基金會。到目前為止一切聽起來都算合理。 不過這之間會有甚麼風險呢？這麼說好了，這筆被印製出來的鈔票會用來買實際生活用品，不是用來投資。這一切聽起來根本就是通貨膨脹的催化劑...你說是不是？不過呢，卻有兩個緩衝通貨膨漲的因素。首先，按照規定，被印出來的這筆錢僅限於海外使用。因此這筆錢對印鈔國家的市場造成的通貨膨脹影響不會明顯，除非大量印鈔造成該國幣值貶值。不過，依照第二點來看，貨幣貶值的可能性不大，原因是紙鈔數量是在這計劃實行下印製出來的。在此我們拿幾個國家當例子，像美國、英國及日本，這些國家以印鈔票為輸出的國家為趕上過去四年來政府對金援的支出金額，印鈔計劃將印出2000億美元的額外援助金。對於這些在金錢儲蓄中有長足獲利的國家來說，實行印鈔金援的計劃會帶來怎樣的效果呢？大家都準備好接受這樣的計劃了嗎？坐在後排的人可能看不清楚，因為這個鴻溝並不大。因此這等同要我們支出3兆7000億元來展開一場復甦全球金融系統的賭局，而且你們知道嗎？這筆錢不會是白白花掉。結果證實通貨膨脹根本沒因此而發生。我們真的擔負不起多印個2000億元援助金的風險嗎？這個危機是否會是個轉機？對我來說一切尚未明朗。唯一可以清楚的是，這筆錢對需要的人有多重要。就算只從上述三個國家的中央銀行在此期間印出來的援助金都會使全球慈善基金會整整多出將近40%的經費可利用。援助金佔國民收入總額的比例會因此達到40年新高。現在，政府不需要設立抽出國民所得0.7%的目標，還是能照樣給予足夠的金額來援助需要的人。不過你們知道嗎？這就是「你捐款我加倍奉還」這場印鈔計劃的精隨 因此從這個貨幣印製機制上我們能得知實行的風險並不大，但其潛值上的獲利卻非常可觀。想像多出40%的援助金。我們甚至可以餵飽所有第一排的觀眾。 我恐懼的事情是我唯一的恐懼是…除了我們已經沒有時間的事實外，就是這個想法能實現的機會實在渺茫。今日，中央銀行印製鈔票是大眾都接受的政策機制。但或許也不需都透過中央銀行印鈔。今日有個世界共通針對國際援助設定的幾個目標…但這些目標可能會改變。今天可能是唯一讓我的想法以及國際援助同時發生的時刻，這樣我們負擔得起當初立下目標要給予金援的數目。 因此，我們可不可以印鈔票來進行國際慈善援助？個人深信這個問題應該得到這樣的答覆…為甚麼不呢？ 謝謝大家！ (觀眾掌聲)
