Talk	en	zh-tw
mick_mountz_the_hidden_world_of_box_packing	"I want to talk to you about, or share with you, a breakthrough new approach for managing items of inventory inside of a warehouse. We're talking about a pick, pack and ship setting here. So as a hint, this solution involves hundreds of mobile robots, sometimes thousands of mobile robots, moving around a warehouse. And I'll get to the solution. But for a moment, just think about the last time that you ordered something online. You were sitting on your couch and you decided that you absolutely had to have this red t-shirt. So — click! — you put it into your shopping cart. And then you decided that green pair of pants looks pretty good too — click! And maybe a blue pair of shoes — click! So at this point you've assembled your order. You didn't stop to think  for a moment that that might not be a great outfit. But you hit ""submit order."" And two days later, this package shows up on your doorstep. And you open the box and you're like, wow, there's my goo. Did you ever stop to think about how those items of inventory actually found their way inside that box in the warehouse? So I'm here to tell you  it's that guy right there. So deep in the middle of that picture, you see a classic pick-pack worker in a distribution or order fulfillments setting. Classically these pick workers will  spend 60 or 70 percent of their day wandering around the warehouse. They'll often walk as much as 5 or 10 miles in pursuit of those items of inventory. Not only is this an unproductive way to fill orders, it also turns out to be an unfulfilling way to fill orders. So let me tell you where I first bumped into this problem. I was out in the Bay area  in '99, 2000, the dot com boom. I worked for a fabulously spectacular flame-out called Webvan. (Laughter) This company raised hundreds of millions of dollars with the notion that we will deliver grocery orders online. And it really came down to the fact that we couldn't do it cost effectively. Turns out e-commerce was something that was very hard and very costly. In this particular instance we were trying to assemble 30 items of inventory into a few totes, onto a van to deliver to the home. And when you think about it, it was costing us 30 dollars. Imagine, we had an 89¢ can of soup that was costing us one dollar to pick and pack into that tote. And that's before we actually tried to deliver it to the home. So long story short, during my one year at Webvan, what I realized by talking to  all the material-handling providers was that there was no solution designed specifically to solve each base picking. Red item, green, blue, getting those three things in a box. So we said, there's just got to be a better way to do this. Existing material handling was set up to pump pallets and cases of goo to retail stores. Of course Webvan went out of business, and about a year and a half later, I was still noodling on this problem. It was still nagging at me. And I started thinking about it again. And I said, let me just focus briefly on what I wanted as a pick worker, or my vision for how it should work. (Laughter) I said, let's focus on the problem. I have an order here and what I want to do is I want to put red, green and blue in this box right here. What I need is a system where I put out my hand and — poof! — the product shows up  and I pack it into the order, and now we're thinking, this would be a very operator-centric approach to solving the problem. This is what I need. What technology is available to solve this problem? But as you can see, orders can come and go, products can come and go. It allows us to focus on making the pick worker the center of the problem, and providing them the tools to make them as productive as possible. So how did I arrive at this notion? Well, actually it came from a brainstorming exercise, probably a technique that many of you use, It's this notion of testing your ideas. Take a blank sheet, of course, but then test your ideas at the limits — infinity, zero. In this particular case, we challenged ourselves with the idea: What if we had to build a distribution center in China, where it's a very, very low-cost market? And say, labor is cheap, land is cheap. And we said specifically, ""What if it was zero dollars an hour for direct labor and we could build a million- square-foot distribution center?"" So naturally that led to ideas that said, ""Let's put lots of people in the warehouse."" And I said, ""Hold on, zero dollars per hour, what I would do is 'hire' 10,000 workers to come to the warehouse every morning at 8 a.m., walk into the warehouse and pick up one item of inventory and then just stand there. So you hold Captain Crunch, you hold the Mountain Dew, you hold the Diet Coke. If I need it, I'll call you, otherwise just stand there. But when I need Diet Coke and I call it, you guys talk amongst yourselves. Diet Coke walks up to the front — pick it, put it in the tote, away it goes."" Wow, what if the products could walk and talk on their own? That's a very interesting, very powerful way that we could potentially organize this warehouse. So of course, labor isn't free, on that practical versus awesome spectrum. (Laughter) So we said mobile shelving — We'll put them on mobile shelving. We'll use mobile robots and we'll move the inventory around. And so we got underway on that and then I'm sitting on my couch in 2008. Did any of you see the Beijing Olympics, the opening ceremonies? I about fell out of my couch when I saw this. I'm like, that was the idea! (Laughter and Applause) We'll put thousands of people on the warehouse floor, the stadium floor. But interestingly enough, this actually relates to the idea in that these guys were creating some incredibly powerful, impressive digital art, all without computers, I'm told, it was all peer-to-peer coordination and communication. You stand up, I'll squat down. And they made some fabulous art. It speaks to the power of emergence in systems when you let things start to talk with each other. So that was a little bit of the journey. So of course, now what became the practical reality of this idea? Here is a warehouse. It's a pick, pack and ship center that has about 10,000 different SKUs. We'll call them red pens, green pens, yellow Post-It Notes. We send the little orange robots out to pick up the blue shelving pods. And we deliver them to the side of the building. So all the pick workers now get to stay on the perimeter. And the game here is to pick up the shelves, take them down the highway and deliver them straight to the pick worker. This pick worker's life is completely different. Rather than wandering around the warehouse, she gets to stay still in a pick station like this and every product in the building can now come to her. So the process is very productive. Reach in, pick an item, scan the bar code, pack it out. By the time you turn around, there's another product there ready to be picked and packed. So what we've done is take out all of the non-value added walking, searching, wasting, waited time, and we've developed a very  high-fidelity way to pick these orders, where you point at it with a laser, scan the UPC barcode, and then indicate with a light which box it needs to go into. So more productive, more accurate and, it turns out, it's a more interesting office environment for these pick workers. They actually complete the whole order. So they do red, green and blue, not just a part of the order. And they feel a little bit more in control of their environment. So the side effects of this approach are what really surprised us. We knew it was going  to be more productive. But we didn't realize just how pervasive this way of thinking extended to other functions in the warehouse. But what effectively this approach is doing inside of the DC is turning it into a massively parallel processing engine. So this is again a cross-fertilization of ideas. Here's a warehouse and we're thinking about parallel processing supercomputer architectures. The notion here is that you have 10 workers on  the right side of the screen that are now all independent autonomous pick workers. If the worker in station three decides to leave and go to the bathroom, it has no impact on the productivity of the other nine workers. Contrast that, for a moment, with the traditional method of using a conveyor. When one person passes the order to you, you put something in and pass it downstream. Everyone has to be in place for that serial process to work. This becomes a more robust way to think about the warehouse. And then underneath the hoods gets interesting in that we're tracking the popularity of the products. And we're using dynamic and adaptive algorithms to tune the floor of the warehouse. So what you see here potentially the week leading up to Valentine's Day. All that pink chalky candy has moved to the front of the building and is now being picked into a lot of orders in those pick stations. Come in two days after Valentine's Day, and that candy, the leftover candy, has all drifted to the back of the warehouse and is occupying the cooler zone on the thermal map there. One other side effect of this approach using the parallel processing is these things can scale to ginormous. (Laughter) So whether you're doing two pick stations, 20 pick stations, or 200 pick stations, the path planning algorithms and all of the inventory algorithms just work. In this example you see that the inventory has now occupied all the perimeter of the building because that's where the pick stations were. They sorted it out for themselves. So I'll conclude with just one final video that shows how this comes to bear on the pick worker's actual day in the life of. So as we mentioned, the process is to move inventory along the highway and then find your way into these pick stations. And our software in the background understands what's going on  in each station, we direct the pods across the highway and we're attempting to get into a queuing system to present the work to the pick worker. What's interesting is we can even adapt the speed of the pick workers. The faster pickers get more pods and the slower pickers get few. But this pick worker now is literally having that experience that we described before. She puts out her hand. The product jumps into it. Or she has to reach in and get it. She scans it and  she puts it in the bucket. And all of the rest of the technology is kind of behind the scenes. So she gets to now focus on the picking and packing portion of her job. Never has any idle time, never has to leave her mat. And actually we think not only a more productive and more accurate way to fill orders. We think it's a more fulfilling way to fill orders. The reason we can say that, though, is that workers in a lot of these buildings now compete for the privilege of working in the Kiva zone that day. And sometimes we'll catch them on testimonial videos saying such things as, they have more energy after the day to play with their grandchildren, or in one case a guy said, ""the Kiva zone is so stress-free that I've actually stopped taking my blood pressure medication."" (Laughter) That was at a pharmaceutical distributor, so they told us not to use that video. (Laughter) So what I wanted to leave you with today is the notion that when you let things start to think and walk and talk on their own, interesting processes and productivities can emerge. And now I think next time you go to your front step and pick up that box that you just ordered online, you break it open and the goo is in there, you'll have some wonderment as to whether a robot assisted in the picking and packing of that order. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想談一下，或說分享一下一種突破性的新方法，來做倉儲的存貨管理。我說的是取貨、包裝及出貨部分。我給點提示，這種方法要用上百個移動式機器人，有時甚至上千個移動式機器人，在倉庫裡穿梭。我馬上會談方法。但現在，就請大家想一下你最近一次在網上購物的情景。你坐在沙發上，你看到一件紅色 T 恤，想要的不得了。於是你一點，就把它放入購物車。然後你又看到一條綠色的褲子，也很不錯。又點！又發現一雙藍色的鞋子，點！這個時候你已經選好一整套服裝。你一點也沒想過這樣的搭配可能不太好看。但是你已下了訂單。兩天之後，包裹出現在你家門前。你打開箱子，哇，好貨來了！你是否曾經想過這些東西的存貨如何從倉庫中找出再裝成包裹？我現在就告訴你，就是那傢伙做的。在這張照片裡，有位小小的傳統取貨包裝工人，在配送中心或履行訂單的地方工作。傳統模式下，這些取貨員每天要花六七成的上班時間穿梭在倉庫裡。他們累計要走 8-16 公里來尋找所需的貨物。這不但是沒什麼效率的發貨方式，員工也沒什麼成就感。所以讓我告訴你們我第一次碰到這個問題的情況。1999-2000 年左右我在灣區，當時正值電子商務潮。我為一家曇花一現的網路雜貨宅配商網路雜貨車 (Webvan) 工作。（笑）這家公司集資了幾億美元，吸金的概念是網路超市宅配到家。但美夢破碎，因為這真的不符成本效益。其實電子商務很難做，花費也大。在這個實例裡，我們試著將存貨中的 30 件物品裝進袋子裡 ，裝上車並宅配到家。你得瞭解，這要花我們 30 美元。試想一下，一瓶罐頭湯才賣 89 美分，卻要花我們 1 美元的成本來取貨及包裝。而且這還只是我們宅配到家之前的花費。所以長話短說，我在網路雜貨車待的一年時間裡，跟很多物料運輸的廠家談過，我了解到並沒有特別為基層取貨設計的方法。紅的物品、綠的、藍的，把這三樣東西裝箱。所以我們就想，一定有更好的辦法。現行的物料輸送法是把貨板和貨箱發送到零售店。當然網路雜貨車已經關門了，在大概一年半後，我仍絞盡腦汁在想這個問題。它一直困擾著我。我開始重新思考。我說：讓我暫時簡化問題，如果我是取貨員我要什麼。或是說我想怎麼做。（笑）我說，讓我們回到問題本身。我有一則訂單，我想做的是把紅、綠和藍放進這個箱子裡。我需要的是一個系統，讓我能一伸手，變！貨物就出現在我手上，然後我就裝進箱子裡，現在我們在想，這是以操作員為中心的解決辦法。這就是我想要的。有什麼現成的科技能解決這個問題？但是你也知道，訂單來來去去，貨物也來來去去。這讓我們專心把問題重點放在取貨員上，給他們工具以提高生產率。所以我是怎樣有這個概念的？其實是從一次腦力激盪而來，你們大概都用過這個方法，這是考驗你的想法的一種概念。當然，你要拿一張白紙，但考驗你想法的限制是：無限、零。這個例子，我們激盪一下這個想法：假如我們在中國蓋一座配送中心會怎樣，那裡是成本很低很低的市場？比如，勞力便宜，土地也便宜。具體一點說，假如直接勞工費用是每小時零美元，而且我們還能蓋一座占地一百萬平方呎的配送中心？所以我們很自然會想到一個方法：讓我們在倉庫裡放很多人。然後我說：等等，每小時零元，那我要「雇」一萬名工人每天早上八點到倉庫，走進倉庫裡並從存貨中取一項貨品，然後站在那。所以你拿桂格早餐片，你拿山泉汽水，你拿健怡可樂。我需要的時候會叫你們，平常你們站著就好。但我叫我要健怡可樂時，你們自己傳話。拿可樂的人走到前面，我拿、放進袋子、出貨。哇，假如產品能自己走過來還能自己傳話？那是非常有意思、非常強大的方法，以這種方法管理這座倉庫好像可行。但是當然，勞工不可能免費，放在現實與夢想的秤上量量就知道。（笑）所以我們想到移動櫃，我們把產品放在移動櫃上，我們要用移動式機器人，還要讓存貨移動。所以我們就開始朝那方面發展。然後 2008 年有一天我坐在沙發上，你們看過北京奧運的開幕式嗎？當我看到這幕，差點沒從沙發上掉下來。我就像，就是這樣啦！（笑聲及掌聲）我們要在倉庫裡放上千人，體育館地板上。但是夠有意思了，這其實與另一個點子有關，就是這些人創造了極為震撼、令人讚嘆的數位藝術，卻不用電腦，人家告訴我，這全靠同儕間的協調與溝通。你一站起來我就蹲下去。他們創造了極棒的藝術。這就要來講講湧現的力量，在你讓系統內的東西開始自己對話後的結果。那就是產品開發的過程。所以當然要看，這個點子實踐出來是甚麼樣呢？這是座倉庫。這是個取貨、裝貨送貨中心，大約有一萬種不同的產品。我們就說他們是紅筆、綠筆、黃色的便利貼。我們送這個小橘機器人去取藍色的儲存盒。然後我們再送他們去建築物邊上。所以所有的取貨員都待在周圍。玩法是去拿貨架，從「高速公路」直送到取貨員那裏。這位取貨員的日子完全不一樣了。她不用在倉庫裡亂走，她只要待在某地，待在一個像這樣的取貨站，建築物內的每個產品會走到她那裏。所以整個過程非常有生產力。伸進去、拿一個、掃描條碼、裝貨。一個轉身的時間，另一項產品又在旁邊待命等著取裝。所以我們做的是把無附加價值的走路、搜尋、浪費、等待時間拿掉，並發展一套非常準確的方法來取訂單上的貨，你用雷射指出貨品，掃瞄通用產品代碼，然後以光指示產品該去那個箱子。所以生產力更高，更正確，結果是這個工作環境對這些取貨員而言更有趣。他們真的能取完整筆訂單的貨物。所以他們拿了紅綠藍，不是只拿訂單上的部分貨物。他們覺得更能控制他們的環境。所以這項方法的副作用真的嚇壞我們。我們早知道這會提高生產力。但我們真的不知道這個思考方式如何滲透，延伸到倉庫的其他功能上。但這個方法在配送中心有成效是因為這把它變成一個大規模平行處理的引擎。所以這又是一個互相影響的點子。這雖是個倉庫，但我們在想的是平行處理的超級電腦結構。這裡的概念是你有10 名員工在螢幕右邊現在都是獨立的自主取貨員。如果三號站的人想要離開去上廁所，也不會影響到其他九個人的生產力。相反的，如果用傳統的輸送帶，某人傳一個訂單給你，你放了某物進去再傳給下一個人。每一個人都必須在崗位上，因為那是串列處理的工作。這在設計倉庫時是更穩健的方法。如果仔細看內部，很有意思的是我們還能追蹤產品的受歡迎程度。我們用動態可調適演算法來調整倉庫樓面。所以你在這看見的是情人節前一星期的倉儲狀況。所有的粉紅色糖都移到建築物的前面，而且現在已經開始取貨，因為有大量訂單進入。情人節後兩天，這些糖，剩下來的糖，就會移到倉庫後面，存放在溫度圖上比較冷的地方。使用平行處理方法還有一個副作用，就是這些東西的規模可以搞得極大。（笑聲）無論你有 2 個取貨站、20 個取貨站、或 200 個取貨站，路徑計畫演算法及所有的存貨演算都可應用上。在這個例子你看到存貨現在都放在建築物四周，因為取貨站也在那裏。他們自己會搞清楚該怎麼辦。所以我要最後要以一段影片總結。這段影片顯示這個方法如何影響一名取貨員的實際工作狀況。所以就像我們之前提到的，處理過程是在通道上移動存貨並找到去取貨站的路。在背後跑的軟體了解每個取貨站的狀況，我們指揮每一個儲存盒的流向，並試著為之排序，把貨物依序交給取貨員。有趣的是我們還可以適應取貨員的速度。動作快的取貨員排得儲存盒就多，慢的就排得少。但這個取貨員現在真的在經歷我們之前形容的景象。她伸出手，貨物就跑進去。好啦，她要伸手進去拿。她掃描它，把它放進籃子裡。其餘那些科技都在幕後。所以她現在能專心在取貨裝貨這部分。絕不會閒著沒事，絕不用離開工作區。事實上我們認為這不僅是更有生產力準確度更高的方法以屢行訂單。我們還認為這是更有成就感的方法。但是我們之所以這麼說，是因為很多在這種建築物內做事的員工都爭著要去有奇華系統的區域工作。有時候我們還在證言式廣告影片聽到他們說這樣的話，像他們上班一天之後還有精力跟孫子玩，有個傢伙甚至還說，奇華工作區沒有壓力我真的可以不用再吃降血壓藥了！（笑聲）那是在一家製藥配送商拍的，所以他們告訴我們不能用那段影片。（笑聲）所以今天我想讓你們帶回去的概念是當你讓東西開始思考、走路並自己溝通，就會出現有趣的處理過程及生產力。現在我想下次你走到前門拿起你網購寄來的箱子，你打開它看到好貨在裡面，你會好奇一下是不是有個機器人幫著取裝那項訂單。謝謝。（掌聲）
