Talk	en	zh-tw
mikko_hypponen_three_types_of_online_attack	"In the 1980s, in communist Eastern Germany, if you owned a typewriter, you had to register it with the government. You had to register a sample sheet of text out of the typewriter. And this was done so the government could track where the text was coming from. If they found a paper which had the wrong kind of thought, they could track down who created that thought. And we in the West couldn't understand how anybody would do this, how much this would restrict freedom of speech. We would never do that in our own countries. But today, in 2011, if you go and buy a color laser printer from any major laser printer manufacturer and print a page, that page will end up having slight yellow dots printed on every single page, in a pattern which makes the page unique to you and to your printer. This is happening to us today. And nobody seems to be making a fuss about it. And this is an example of the ways our own governments are using technology against us, the citizens. And this is one of the main three sources of online problems today. If we look at what's really happening in the online world, we can group the attacks based on the attackers. We have three main groups. We have online criminals. Like here, we have Mr. Dmitry Golubov, from the city of Kiev in Ukraine. And the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand. These guys make money. They use online attacks to make lots of money — and lots and lots of it. We actually have several cases of millionaires online, multimillionaires, who made money with their attacks. Here's Vladimir Tsastsin, from Tartu in Estonia. This is [Albert] Gonzalez. This is Stephen Watt. This is Bjorn Sundin. This is Matthew Anderson, Tariq Al-Daour and so on and so on. These guys make their fortunes online, but they make it through the illegal means of using things like banking Trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we do online banking, or with keyloggers to collect our credit card information while we are doing online shopping from an infected computer. The US Secret Service, two months ago, froze the Swiss bank account of Mr. Sam Jain right here, and that bank account had 14.9 million US dollars in it when it was frozen. Mr. Jain himself is on the loose; nobody knows where he is. And I claim it's already today that it's more likely for any of us to become the victim of a crime online than here in the real world. And it's very obvious that this is only going to get worse. In the future, the majority of crime will be happening online. The second major group of attackers that we are watching today are not motivated by money. They're motivated by something else — motivated by protests, motivated by an opinion, motivated by the laughs. Groups like Anonymous have risen up over the last 12 months and have become a major player in the field of online attacks. So those are the three main attackers: criminals who do it for the money, hacktivists like Anonymous doing it for the protest, but then the last group are nation states — governments doing the attacks. And then we look at cases like what happened in DigiNotar. This is a prime example of what happens when governments attack against their own citizens. DigiNotar is a certificate authority from the Netherlands — or actually, it was. It was running into bankruptcy last fall, because they were hacked into. Somebody broke in and they hacked it thoroughly. And I asked last week, in a meeting with Dutch government representatives, I asked one of the leaders of the team whether he found plausible that people died because of the DigiNotar hack. And his answer was: yes. So how do people die as the result of a hack like this? Well, DigiNotar is a CA. They sell certificates. What do you do with certificates? Well, you need a certificate if you have a website that has https, SSL encrypted services, services like Gmail. Now we all, or a big part of us, use Gmail or one of their competitors, but these services are especially popular in totalitarian states like Iran, where dissidents use foreign services like Gmail because they know they are more trustworthy than the local services and they are encrypted over SSL connections, so the local government can't snoop on their discussions. Except they can, if they hack into a foreign CA and issue rogue certificates. And this is exactly what happened with the case of DigiNotar. What about Arab Spring and things that have been happening, for example, in Egypt? Well, in Egypt, the rioters looted the headquarters of the Egyptian secret police in April 2011, and when they were looting the building, they found lots of papers. Among those papers was this binder entitled, ""FinFisher."" And within that binder were notes from a company based in Germany, which had sold to the Egyptian government a set of tools for intercepting, at a very large scale, all the communication of the citizens of the country. They had sold this tool for 280,000 euros to the Egyptian government. The company headquarters are right here. So Western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools to do this against their own citizens. But Western governments are doing it to themselves as well. For example, in Germany, just a couple of weeks ago, the so-called ""State Trojan"" was found, which was a Trojan used by German government officials to investigate their own citizens. If you are a suspect in a criminal case, well, it's pretty obvious, your phone will be tapped. But today, it goes beyond that. They will tap your Internet connection. They will even use tools like State Trojan to infect your computer with a Trojan, which enables them to watch all your communication, to listen to your online discussions, to collect your passwords. Now, when we think deeper about things like these, the obvious response from people should be, ""OK, well, that sounds bad, but that doesn't really affect me, because I'm a legal citizen. Why should I worry? Because I have nothing to hide."" And this is an argument which doesn't make sense. Privacy is implied. Privacy is not up for discussion. This is not a question between privacy against security. It's a question of freedom against control. And while we might trust our governments right now, right here in 2011, any rights we give away will be given away for good. And do we trust, do we blindly trust, any future government, a government we might have 50 years from now? And these are the questions that we have to worry about for the next 50 years."	"1980年代在共產主義的東德如果你擁有一部打字機你得去跟政府登記你必須登記出自這台打字機的範例文件這麼做以後政府就能追蹤文件的來源如果他們發現了寫著錯誤觀點的文件他們就可以追蹤到是誰創造了這觀點在西方世界中我們不能理解怎麼有人能這麼做這將會多麼限制言論自由啊在我們國家我們絕不這麼做 但來到現今2011年如果你從任何一家大型雷射印表機製造商買一部彩色雷射印表機然後印出一張紙這張紙最後會有一些小黃點印在每一頁上圖案使這張紙是獨特的對你和你的印表機都是這就是現在發生在我們身上的似乎沒有人為此大驚小怪這裡展示了我們的政府使用科技來對付我們這些公民們的例子這是今天網路問題的三大來源之一 如果我們看一下網路世界到底發生了什麼我們根據攻擊者來分組我們有三個主要的組我們有網路罪犯就像這位，Dimitry Golubov先生來自烏克蘭的基輔市網路罪犯的犯罪動機很容易了解這些傢伙為了賺錢他們利用線上攻擊來拿取很多的錢很多很多錢實際上我們有好幾個案子都是線上百萬富翁 千萬富翁都是利用線上攻擊來賺錢的這是來自愛沙尼亞 塔爾圖市的Vladimir Tsastsin還有這是Alfred GonzalezStephen WattBjorn Sundin.Matthew Anderson 及 Tariq Al-Daour等等等等 這些人在線上賺取他們的財富卻是透過違法的手段像是使用銀行木馬在我們使用線上銀行服務時竊取我們銀行中的錢或者 我們使用一台中毒的電腦在線上購物時他們使用鍵盤記錄器來收集我們信用卡的資訊美國特勤局在2個月前凍結了Sam Jain先生在瑞士銀行的帳戶這個帳戶裡有著 一千四百九十萬 美元當它被凍結後Sam Jain也消失無蹤沒人知道他在哪裡今日我斷言任何一個在場的人都很可能成為線上犯罪的受害者甚至超越了現實生活而且很明顯的這將會變的更糟在未來 主要的犯罪行為都會發生在網路上 第二組我們關切的主要犯罪集團它們的動機不在於錢他們的動機源自別處出於抗議出於表達意見出於被嘲笑過去12個月中 這類集團活躍了起來像是匿名客組識(Anonymous)並且變成線上攻擊領域的主要參與者 這些就是三組主要的攻擊者為了錢的罪犯還有為了抗議像是匿名客組織(Anonymous)的駭客們但第三組來源是民族國家們政府正進行這樣的攻擊我們看一下例子像是 DigiNotar 公司所發生的這是一個典型例子當政府攻擊他們的公民的一個犯罪案例DigiNotar 是一個荷蘭的憑證發行機構或者說 它曾經是它在去年秋天時破產了因為它們遭到入侵有人闖進去徹底的毀了它我上周在與荷蘭政府代表開會時問過我問一位領導他有否發現有可能有人會因為DigiNotar 攻擊而死亡他的回答是肯定的 那麼 究竟為什麼人們的死亡會源自於這樣的一個攻擊呢DigiNotar是個憑證發行機構他們販售憑證你會用憑證來做什麼嗯 當你經營一個有https的網站你會需要一個憑證會以SSL加密的服務像是Gmail現在 我們所有人 或是大部份使用Gmail 或是他對手們的其中一家但這樣的服務在極權主義國家更為盛行像是伊朗異議人士會使用像Gmail 這樣的國外服務因為他們知道 這些服務比起國內服務更可以信任而且這些服務是由SSL加密連線所以當地政府沒辦法竊聽他們的討論除非政府可以駭入國外的憑證發行機構然後發行出假憑證而這就是在 DigiNotar 案子中所發生的 來談談阿拉伯之春例如埃及所發生的事在埃及暴民洗劫了埃及秘密警察的總部在2011年4月當他們洗劫時發現很多文件在這些文件中有一個名叫FINFISHER的夾子這個夾子裡有些記錄一間德國的公司賣給了埃及政府一套可以用來竊聽的工具有很大的比例國家公眾的所有通信他們把這套工具以28萬歐元賣給了埃及政府這間公司的總部就在這 所以 西方政府提供工具給極權政府來竊聽他們的人民但西方政府對他們自己的人民也這麼做例如說 在德國幾個星期前有個叫 State Trojan 的木馬被找到這是個被德國政府官方用來調查他們公民的一支木馬如果你是個犯罪案件的嫌疑犯很明顯的 你的電話會被監聽但在今日 不只是如此他們還會監聽你的網路連線他們甚至使用使用像是 State Trojan 的工具使你的電腦感染木馬這使他們能夠監看你所有的通訊查看你線上的發言並收集你的密碼 當我們對這樣的事情做更深的思考人們的反應顯然會是""嗯，這聽起來不好""""但我是個合法的公民，這並不影響我""""我何必擔心呢""""因為我沒什麼可隱藏的""但這是個不合理的論點隱私是不言而喻隱私用不著討論這不是個隱私對抗安全的問題這是個 自由對抗控制的問題我們在2011年的當下我們信任我們的政府任何我們放棄的權利 會永久的失去而我們能不能信任 盲目的信任未來的政府譬如說50年後的政府呢?這就是接下來的五十年中，我們要擔憂的問題"
