Talk	en	zh-tw
mileha_soneji_simple_hacks_for_life_with_parkinson_s	"In India, we have these huge families. I bet a lot of you all must have heard about it. Which means that there are a lot of family events. So as a child, my parents used to drag me to these family events. But the one thing that I always looked forward to was playing around with my cousins. And there was always this one uncle who used to be there, always ready, jumping around with us, having games for us, making us kids have the time of our lives. This man was extremely successful: he was confident and powerful. But then I saw this hale and hearty person deteriorate in health. He was diagnosed with Parkinson's. Parkinson's is a disease that causes degeneration of the nervous system, which means that this person who used to be independent suddenly finds tasks like drinking coffee, because of tremors, much more difficult. My uncle started using a walker to walk, and to take a turn, he literally had to take one step at a time, like this, and it took forever. So this person, who used to be the center of attention in every family gathering, was suddenly hiding behind people. He was hiding from the pitiful look in people's eyes. And he's not the only one in the world. Every year, 60,000 people are newly diagnosed with Parkinson's, and this number is only rising. As designers, we dream that our designs solve these multifaceted problems, one solution that solves it all, but it need not always be like that. You can also target simple problems and create small solutions for them and eventually make a big impact. So my aim here was to not cure Parkinson's, but to make their everyday tasks much more simple, and then make an impact. Well, the first thing I targeted was tremors, right? My uncle told me that he had stopped drinking coffee or tea in public just out of embarrassment, so, well, I designed the no-spill cup. It works just purely on its form. The curve on top deflects the liquid back inside every time they have tremors, and this keeps the liquid inside compared to a normal cup. But the key here is that it is not tagged as a Parkinson's patient product. It looks like a cup that could be used by you, me, any clumsy person, and that makes it much more comforting for them to use, to blend in. So, well, one problem solved, many more to go. All this while, I was interviewing him, questioning him, and then I realized that I was getting very superficial information, or just answers to my questions. But I really needed to dig deeper to get a new perspective. So I thought, well, let's observe him in his daily tasks, while he's eating, while he's watching TV. And then, when I was actually observing him walking to his dining table, it struck me, this man who finds it so difficult to walk on flat land, how does he climb a staircase? Because in India we do not have a fancy rail that takes you up a staircase like in the developed countries. One actually has to climb the stairs. So he told me, ""Well, let me show you how I do it."" Let's take a look at what I saw. So he took really long to reach this position, and then all this while, I'm thinking, ""Oh my God, is he really going to do it? Is he really, really going to do it without his walker?"" And then ... (Laughter) And the turns, he took them so easily. So — shocked? Well, I was too. So this person who could not walk on flat land was suddenly a pro at climbing stairs. On researching this, I realized that it's because it's a continuous motion. There's this other man who also suffers from the same symptoms and uses a walker, but the moment he's put on a cycle, all his symptoms vanish, because it is a continuous motion. So the key for me was to translate this feeling of walking on a staircase back to flat land. And a lot of ideas were tested and tried on him, but the one that finally worked was this one. Let's take a look. (Laughter) (Applause) He walked faster, right? (Applause) I call this the staircase illusion, and actually when the staircase illusion abruptly ended, he froze, and this is called freezing of gait. So it happens a lot, so why not have a staircase illusion flowing through all their rooms, making them feel much more confident? You know, technology is not always it. What we need are human-centered solutions. I could have easily made it into a projection, or a Google Glass, or something like that. But I stuck to simple print on the floor. This print could be taken into hospitals to make them feel much more welcome. What I wish to do is make every Parkinson's patient feel like my uncle felt that day. He told me that I made him feel like his old self again. ""Smart"" in today's world has become synonymous to high tech, and the world is only getting smarter and smarter day by day. But why can't smart be something that's simple and yet effective? All we need is a little bit of empathy and some curiosity, to go out there, observe. But let's not stop at that. Let's find these complex problems. Don't be scared of them. Break them, boil them down into much smaller problems, and then find simple solutions for them. Test these solutions, fail if needed, but with newer insights to make it better. Imagine what we all could do if we all came up with simple solutions. What would the world be like if we combined all our simple solutions? Let's make a smarter world, but with simplicity. Thank you. (Applause)"	在印度盛行大家族。我肯定在座很多人可能都聽說過。也因此常常有很多家族活動。我小時候，父母常硬拉我參加這些活動。 但有一樣我總是期待的，就是跟我的表兄弟姊妹玩耍。那時有一位叔叔,他時常在我們左右。隨時準備跟我們跑跑跳跳，跟我們玩遊戲。使我們這班小童享受了人生的一段快樂時光。這位男士成就非凡： 那時他充滿自信，也很有權威。但是不久我見到這位健壯的男士健康轉壞。他被確診患了柏金遜症。 柏金遜症是導致神經系統日漸退化的疾病即是一向行動自如的人就連想飲杯咖啡，都會因為身體突然間擅抖，而感覺飲得困難。我這位叔叔行路都開始要用助行器，每走一步，就真的好像我照字面講述，他真的要每次只能行一步，可要花很久才走完那段路。我這位叔叔因而成為了焦點 在每次家庭聚會忽然間躲在人群後面。他要逃避別人用可憐的目光注視他。 世界上並不是只有他有這樣的情況。每年有6萬名病人被確診患上柏金遜症。而且數字一直在上升。我身為一位設計師，總希望自己的設計可以解決多方面的問題，能夠以一個方法去解決一切問題但不需要常常都是這樣。你總可以針對一些簡單的問題。想出一些小方案去解決簡單的問題，從而產生巨大的影響力。所以我來這裡的目標不是治好柏金遜症，而是令病人在日常的行動中變得更簡單，繼而造成深遠的影響。 對了，我想第一個處理的就是病人的擅抖問題，我叔叔曾經說他為了避免尷尬，已經不會在公眾場所喝咖啡。於是我設計一個不會溢出液體的杯子。純粹是靠杯子形狀來起作用。每次當病人擅抖時，只要有一個頂部有弧度的杯子，就會把液體回彈到杯內，與一般普通杯子比較，更能令液體保留在杯內。這個設計的重點是不會標籤為這類病人的產品。它似是一隻你和我或任何笨拙的人都會用的杯子。這樣令到病人更加安心使用，融入杜會。好，一個問題解決了。還有很多尚未解決。 這一陣子，我替他做訪問，向他提出問題，然後我認識到我的認知實在太膚淺，或者他只回應了我的問題而已。我一定要加深了解，希望得到新的頭緒。我想不如觀察他的日常生活。看他吃東西，看電視。跟著我正在觀察他步行到餐桌，我驚覺他走平地也非常困難，那麼他如何爬樓梯呢？因為印度不似一些發達國家，沒有優質的電動軌道助你登上樓梯。所以每個人其實要靠自己爬樓梯。於是他對我說：「讓我示範一次給你看，我是怎麼做到的。」請看看我那時看見什麼。 他弄了很久才走到這裡，這時我在想，「天啊！他真的要爬樓梯嗎？」他真的，真的不用助行器爬樓梯嗎？然後… （笑聲） 而且他做轉彎的動作時，簡直是輕而易舉。 驚奇嗎？我也是。所以這個不能在平地走路的人，忽然變成爬樓梯專家。 我經過研究後，才明白因為這是連續動作的關係。又有另一位男士得到同一病癥，他要用助行器步行，但當他騎腳踏車時，所以病㿂消失了。因為這是連續的動作。所以我一定要把爬樓梯的感覺轉回到行平地。我想很多方法，經過測試和讓叔叔試用。最後成功的就是這個方法。請一齊看看。 （笑聲） （鼓掌聲） 他行得快了，是不是？ （鼓掌聲） 我稱它為樓梯幻象。當樓梯幻象突然終示，他就會僵住了。這叫做＂步履凝凍＂。這種情況常常發生，這樣為什麼不把樓梯幻象佈滿所有房間，讓病人增添信心呢？科技並不是一切。我們需要的是以人為本去解決方法。我可以很容易把它變成投影，或者戴谷歌眼鏡，諸如此類。但我只是把簡單的圖片貼在地上。我可以把這些圖片帶到醫院，令到醫院更受病人歡迎。 我希望每個柏金遜症病人都好像我叔叔那天的感受。叔叔告訴我說，我令到他回復以前的自己。 ＂聰明＂在現今的世界等同高科技的同義詞。而世界只有日復一日，越來越聰明。但是為什麼聰明就不可以是簡單而實用呢？我們只需一點同理心和好奇心，走到病人身邊，然後觀察他們。但我們不要就此停下來。我們要無懼害怕去尋找複雜的問題。把難題拆鮮，簡化為小問題，然後替小問題找出簡單的答案。必需經過失敗，才會有方案，隨著新的動察力，日後會比現在做得更好。試想想如果大家都能用上簡單解決方法，最後我們什麼都可解決。如果我們把它們合併在一起，世界會變成怎麼樣呢？讓我們一起創造一個更加聰明但需要簡約的世界。 謝謝。 （鼓掌聲)。
