Talk	en	zh-tw
mohamed_hijri_a_simple_solution_to_the_coming_phosphorus_crisis	"I'm going to start by asking you a question: Is anyone familiar with the blue algae problem? Okay, so most of you are. I think we can all agree it's a serious issue. Nobody wants to drink blue algae-contaminated water, or swim in a blue algae-infested lake. Right? I hope you won't be disappointed, but today, I won't be talking about blue algae. Instead, I'll be talking about the main cause at the root of this issue, which I will be referring to as the phosphorus crisis. Why have I chosen to talk to you about the phosphorus crisis today? For the simple reason that nobody else is talking about it. And by the end of my presentation, I hope that the general public will be more aware of this crisis and this issue. Now, the problem is that if I ask, why do we find ourselves in this situation with blue algae? The answer is that it comes from how we farm. We use fertilizers in our farming, chemical fertilizers. Why do we use chemical fertilizers in agriculture? Basically, to help plants grow and to produce a better yield. The issue is that this is set to engender an environmental problem that is without precedent. Before going further, let me give you a crash course in plant biology. So, what does a plant need in order to grow? A plant, quite simply, needs light, it needs CO2, but even more importantly, it needs nutrients, which it draws from the soil. Several of these nutrients are essential chemical elements: phosphorus, nitrogen and calcium. So, the plant’s roots will extract these resources. Today I'll be focusing on a major problem that is linked to phosphorus. Why phosphorus in particular? Because it is the most problematic chemical element. By the end of my presentation, you will have seen what these problems are, and where we are today. Phosphorus is a chemical element that is essential to life. This is a very important point. I’d like everyone to understand precisely what the phosphorus issue is. Phosphorus is a key component in several molecules, in many of our molecules of life. Experts in the field will know that cellular communication is phosphorus-based — phosphorylation, dephosphorylation. Cell membranes are phosphorus-based: These are called phospholipids. The energy in all living things, ATP, is phosphorus-based. And more importantly still, phosphorus is a key component of DNA, something everyone is familiar with, and which is shown in this image. DNA is our genetic heritage. It is extremely important, and once again, phosphorus is a key player. Now, where do we find this phosphorus? As humans, where do we find it? As I explained earlier, plants extract phosphorus from the soil, through water. So, we humans get it from the things we eat: plants, vegetables, fruits, and also from eggs, meat and milk. It’s true that some humans eat better than others. Some are happier than others. And now, looking at this picture, which speaks for itself, we see modern agriculture, which I also refer to as intensive agriculture. Intensive agriculture is based on the use of chemical fertilizers. Without them, we would not manage to produce enough to feed the world's population. Speaking of humans, there are currently 7 billion of us on Earth. In less than 40 years, there will be 9 billion of us. And the question is a simple one: Do we have enough phosphorus to feed our future generations? So, in order to understand these issues, where do we find our phosphorus? Let me explain. But first, let’s just suppose that we are using 100 percent of a given dose of phosphorus. Only 15 percent of this 100 percent goes to the plant. Eighty-five percent is lost. It goes into the soil, ending its journey in the lakes, resulting in lakes with extra phosphorus, which leads to the blue algae problem. So, you’ll see there’s a problem here, something that is illogical. A hundred percent of the phosphorus is used, but only 15 percent goes to the plant. You’re going to tell me it’s wasteful. Yes, it is. What is worse is that it is very expensive. Nobody wants to throw their money out the window, but unfortunately that's what is happening here. Eighty percent of each dose of phosphorus is lost. Modern agriculture depends on phosphorus. And because in order to get 15 percent of it to the plant, all the rest is lost, we have to add more and more. Now, where will we get this phosphorus from? Basically, we get it out of mines. This is the cover of an extraordinary article published in Nature in 2009, which really launched the discussion about the phosphorus crisis. Phosphorus, a nutrient essential to life, which is becoming increasingly scarce, yet nobody is talking about it. And everyone agrees: Politicians and scientists are in agreement that we are headed for a phosphorus crisis. What you are seeing here is an open-pit mine in the U.S., and to give you an idea of the dimensions of this mine, if you look in the top right-hand corner, the little crane you can see, that is a giant crane. So that really puts it into perspective. So, we get phosphorus from mines. And if I make a comparison with oil, there’s an oil crisis, we talk about it, we talk about global warming, yet we never mention the phosphorus crisis. To come back to the oil problem, oil is something we can replace. We can use biofuels, or solar power, or hydropower, but phosphorus is an essential element, indispensable to life, and we can’t replace it. What is the current state of the world's phosphorus reserves? This graph gives you a rough idea of where we are today. The black line represents predictions for phosphorus reserves. In 2030, we’ll reach the peak. By the end of this century, it will all be gone. The dotted line shows where we are today. As you can see, they meet in 2030, I’ll be retired by then. But we are indeed heading for a major crisis, and I’d like people to become aware of this problem. Do we have a solution? What are we to do? We are faced with a paradox. Less and less phosphorus will be available. By 2050 there will be 9 billion of us, and according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization, we will need to produce twice as much food in 2050 than we do today. So, we will have less phosphorus, but we'll need to produce more food. What should we do? It truly is a paradoxical situation. Do we have a solution, or an alternative which will allow us to optimize phosphorus use? Remember that 80 percent is destined to be lost. The solution I'm offering today is one that has existed for a very long time, even before plants existed on Earth, and it's a microscopic mushroom that is very mysterious, very simple, and yet also extremely complex. I've been fascinated by this little mushroom for over 16 years now. It has led me to further my research and to use it as a model for my laboratory research. This mushroom exists in symbiosis with the roots. By symbiosis, I mean a bidirectional and mutually beneficial association which is also called mycorrhiza. This slide illustrates the elements of a mycorrhiza. You’re looking at the root of wheat, one of the world’s most important plants. Normally, a root will find phosphorus all by itself. It will go in search of phosphorus, but only within the one millimeter which surrounds it. Beyond one millimeter, the root is ineffective. It cannot go further in its search for phosphorus. Now, imagine this tiny, microscopic mushroom. It grows much faster, and is much better designed to seek out phosphorus. It can go beyond the root’s one-millimeter scope to seek out phosphorus. I haven’t invented anything at all; it's a biotechnology that has existed for 450 million years. And over time, this mushroom has evolved and adapted to seek out even the tiniest trace of phosphorus, and to put it to use, to make it available to the plant. What you’re seeing here, in the real world, is a carrot root, and the mushroom with its very fine filaments. Looking closer, we can see that this mushroom is very gentle in its penetration. It will proliferate between the root's cells, eventually penetrating a cell and starting to form a typical arbuscular structure, which will considerably increase the exchange interface between the plant and the mushroom. And it is through this structure that mutual exchanges will occur. It’s a win-win trade: I give you phosphorus, and you feed me. True symbiosis. Now let's add a mycorrhiza plant into the diagram I used earlier. And instead of using a 100 percent dose, I’m going to reduce it to 25 percent. You’ll see that of this 25 percent, most will benefit the plant, more than 90 percent. A very small amount of phosphorus will remain in the soil. That's completely natural. What's more is that in certain cases, we don't even need to add phosphorus. If you recall the graphs I showed you earlier, 85 percent of phosphorus is lost in the soil, and the plants are unable to access it. Even though it is present in the soil, it is in insoluble form. The plant is only able to seek out soluble forms. The mushroom is capable of dissolving this insoluble form and making it available for the plant to use. To further support my argument, here is a picture that speaks for itself. These are trials in a field of sorghum. On the left side, you see the yield produced using conventional agriculture, with a 100 percent phosphorus dose. On the other side, the dose was reduced to 50 percent, and just look at the yield. With only a half-dose, we achieved a better yield. This is to show you that this method works. And in some cases, in Cuba, Mexico and India, the dose can be reduced to 25 percent, and in several other cases, there's no need to add any phosphorus at all, because the mushrooms are so well adapted to finding phosphorus and drawing it from the soil. This is an example of soy production in Canada. Mycorrhiza was used in one field but not in the other. And here, where blue indicates a better yield, and yellow a weaker yield. The black rectangle is the plot from which the mycorrhiza was added. In other words, as I already said, I have invented nothing. Mycorrhiza has existed for 450 million years, and it has even helped modern-day plant species to diversify. So, this it isn't something that is still undergoing lab tests. Mycorrhiza exists, it works, it's produced at an industrial scale and commercialized worldwide. The problem is that people are not aware of it. People like food producers and farmers are still not aware of this problem. We have a technology that works, and one that, if used correctly, will alleviate some of the pressure we are putting on the world's phosphorus reserves. In conclusion, I am a scientist and a dreamer. I'm passionate about this topic. So if you were to ask me what my retirement dream is, which will be at the moment we reach that phosphorus peak, it would be that we use one label, ""Made with mycorrhiza,"" and that my children and grandchildren buy products bearing that label too. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)"	我想以問大家一個問題為開場在座各位有人熟悉藍藻問題嗎？好的，所以大部份的人都熟悉我想我們都同意這是個嚴重的問題沒有人想飲用受藍藻汙染的水也沒人想在被藍藻侵佔的湖裡游泳對吧？ 我希望不要讓大家感到失望但今天的演講中，我並不會談到藍藻問題我要談的是這個問題的根源造成藍藻問題的主要原因亦即磷帶來的危機為什麼我選擇磷危機做為今天的演講議題呢？最直接的原因是，因為沒有人談論它在這場演講結束後，我希望社會大眾能對磷危機和這項議題有更多的認識和警覺 現在我們要討論的問題是，如果我這樣問：為什麼我們會陷入藍藻問題中？我會得到這樣的答案：是我們的農業耕作方式造成的因為我們在耕作時使用肥料，化學肥料那麼為什麼我們要在耕作時使用化學肥料？最基本的原因，幫助作物生長，增加收成而問題點在於這樣的過程卻產生了史無前例的環境問題 在進一步探討之前，讓我簡短介紹一下作物生物學的基本知識作物需要什麼來成長呢？所有的植物，簡單直接的回答，需要光和二氧化碳來生長但更重要的是，植物還需要養分而這些養分它們從土壤吸收獲得這些生長所需的養分中，許多是重要的化學元素比如磷，氮和鈣植物的根會從土壤中吸取這些化學元素 今天我要談的是當中最重要的問題，磷的問題為什麼是磷呢？因為它是最容易造成問題的化學元素這場演講結束後，你會了解到這些問題是什麼，和我們今天面臨什麼樣的狀況 磷是我們生活中不可或缺的必要化學元素。這是很重要的一點。我希望讓大家精確的了解磷危機是什麼磷是組成許多分子的基本元素我們生活中常見的分子化合物都需要它相關領域的專家都知道磷也是人體細胞之間溝通的基本元素比如磷酸，比如去磷酸化磷是組成細胞膜的基本成份，這個成份叫做磷脂所有生物的能量來源，如三磷酸腺苷(ATP)，都以磷為基本元素更重要的一點，磷還是構成DNA的關鍵元素這部分大家就比較熟悉了，我們在這個圖中能看到DNA即為我們的基因遺傳分子它是非常重要的存在，而讓我再強調一次磷是當中的關鍵成份 現在讓我們回到問題，我們可以在從哪裡獲得磷？身為人類，我們如何取得磷？我之前說植物從土壤和水當中獲得磷同樣的道理，我們人類也從食物裡獲得磷從作物、蔬菜、水果以及蛋、肉和牛奶那個「吃得比別人好的人，也比其他人快樂」的說法其實是正確的現在看看這張圖，我們很輕易能看到現代的農業耕作方式我稱它為集約的農耕方式能施行集約農耕的前提，則是使用化學肥料不用化學肥料，我們就無法達到那麼高的生產以滿足世界人口的食物需求提到人類總數，目前地球總人口約七十億人而在未來四十年內，人類人口會增加到九十億人這裡我們面臨的問題是簡單直接的：我們有足夠的磷嗎？能滿足未來的人口需求嗎？ 為了能更進一步了解這個議題讓我們來看看，我們能從哪裡獲得磷？我將對大家說明首先，我們假設這裡有100%的磷肥料，我們將它投給作物這100%的磷當中，只有15%會被作物吸收其實85%會流失這85%會殘留在土壤裡，最後順著雨水流入湖中於是湖擁有過量的磷，最後導致藍藻問題所以你可以看到問題在哪了，這過程中有什麼不符邏輯我們用了100%的磷，但作物只吸收了15%你會說，這樣好浪費啊是的，沒錯。而更糟的是，這樣不但浪費，還很花錢沒有人想把錢白白丟出窗外但很不幸的，這就是我們使用磷的情況每一次的投劑中，80%的磷都被浪費掉了磷是決定現代農耕方式的關鍵元素但就因為一份投劑只能讓作物吸收15%，其他的都浪費掉我們得不斷增加投劑的份量 那麼，我們又是從哪裡得到磷肥料的來源？基本上來自於礦產這是一篇相得出色的論文的封面該論文發表於2009年它認真提出了磷危機這個議題磷，我們生活中必要的養分正變得越來越稀少但沒有人注意到這個問題但是所有人都認同它的確在發生政治家和科學家都同意我們正面臨磷的危機 這裡你看到的是美國的一處露天壙坑這個礦坑有多大呢？請看右上角，你能看到一個小小的起重機這起重機實際上是很巨大的這樣我們能了解這個礦坑有多大了吧現在我們知道我們的磷是從礦脈開採獲得的如果跟石油做比較的話我們也面臨石油危機，我們談論這個危機我們也談論全球暖化的問題但目前為止沒人談論磷的危機回到石油問題上，我們可以找到石油的替代能源比如生物燃料，或太陽能或水力發電，但磷這個必要的元素在我們生活中不可或缺的元素，我們是找不到替代品的 全球的磷存量現在剩下多少了呢？從這張圖中你可以大概看出來我們目前的情況黑線代表預測的未來磷存量2030年時存量會到達巔峰但在本世紀末，這些存量會全耗盡虛線表示我們目前擁有的存量你們可以看到，這兩條線會在2030年交集那時候我應該就退休了但我們現在的確面臨著重大的危機我希望喚起大家的注意 我們有解決方案嗎？我們該怎麼做？這是個矛盾的兩難題我們可用的磷會變得越來越少到了2050年，世界總人口到達90億而根據聯合國食物與農業組織的統計2050年時，我們需要食物的量會變成現在的兩倍到時我們擁有比現在更少的磷但卻需要生產更多的食物我們該怎麼做？這的確是個矛盾的兩難處境我們有解決方案嗎？或其他的方式能讓我們更有效的使用目前的磷？ 想想那80%一定會被浪費掉的磷今天我在這場演講裡提出的解決方案其實是個存在很久的方法它甚至早在地球存在之前就存在了即使用微蕈生物，一種神祕的微生物它們的構造非常單純，但也非常複雜我著迷於這些微蕈生物的世界16年它讓我的研究能更進一步開展並以它為模型基準，應用在我的實驗室研究上 這些微蕈是共生的，擁有相同的根這裡的共生，然的是雙向互惠，並共同獲利的連結這個連結的部位我們稱為菌根側邊這張圖說明菌根的組成元素這是小麥的根小麥，世界最重要的作物之一一般的情況下，作物的根會自動尋找磷它會深入土中尋找磷但範圍只限於它周遭一毫米半徑的距離超過一毫米，根就搜尋不到了它沒辦法再延伸範圍去搜尋磷現在，想像一下這些微小的微蕈生物它們比作物生長得快它們的構造也更適合搜尋磷它可以超出作物根部的一毫米範圍去搜尋更多的磷 以上這些都不是我改良發明的這是從45億年前就存在的優秀生物構造經過時間演化，這些微蕈在搜尋磷上變得更精密任何一點細小的磷都能搜尋到，並能吸收它為己用也讓它能被作物所用你在這張圖裡看到的是現實世界的情況，這是蘿蔔的根根旁邊是這些微蕈和它們的蕈絲構造再仔細一點觀察我們可以看到這些微蕈相當和緩的侵入植物根部它在植物的根部細胞間增生最後會穿透周遭的細胞開始依標準的叢枝架構增殖同時和作物間的接口也會跟著增加作物和微蕈的連接會變多透過彼此同的連接架構，它們會建立起互利合作關係這是雙贏的互利交換我為你搜尋磷，而你餵養我真正的互利共生 現在我們將這些和微蕈共生的作物放到之前我們參考的圖表來看之前我們用100%的磷為投劑，現在我將劑量減為25%你可以看到這25%的劑量多半被作物吸收超過90%以上都被吸收了只會有極少部份殘留在土壤裡這個解決方法完全符合自然生態更棒的是，在某些環境下我們甚至不需要再施化肥 如果你們還記得之前我展示的圖表85%的磷流失，殘留在土壤裡作物沒有辦法吸收它就算這些土壤富含磷，但這些磷是不可溶性的作物只能吸收可溶性的磷而微蕈能夠溶去這些磷不可溶的部份讓它們能被作物吸收為了更進一步證明我的觀點，請看這張圖這是一片試驗田地種植的作物是高梁左方是以一般農業方式種植出來的作物產量施以100%的磷肥料另一邊，將磷肥料減為50%請看照片中的作物產量我們只用了一半的磷，但卻得到更多的收穫 這告訴我們，這樣的方法是可行的在我們於古巴、墨西哥和印度的實驗案例中磷肥料可以減到25%在其他案例裡，甚至能完全不施磷肥料因為微蕈演進得非常好很有效率的從土壤中吸取磷這是在加拿大的案例，種植作物是黃豆只有其中一座田用了微蕈，其他沒有圖中藍色部分代表較高的產量，黃色部分代表較低的產量黑色三角形則標出施加微蕈的田地換句話說，就像我之前說過的，我沒有發明任何新的生物科技45億年前這些微蕈就存在了而它依舊能幫助現代的植物適應環境 這並不是什麼還在實驗測試階段的研究這些微蕈早就存在於自然界中，並且很有幫助它能提供全球性的大規模生產和商業機能問題在於人們不注重它食品生產者和農夫還沒意識到磷的問題我們擁有能解決問題的技術在這前提下，如果能正確的使用這技術我們能舒緩世界磷存量不足的帶來的壓力 總而言之，我是名科學家，也是個夢想家我對這個議題充滿熱情如果你要問我的退休夢想是什麼那時正好也是我們面臨磷產量高峰的時候我的夢想是，那個時候這個標語會被我們大量使用：「真蕈種植」而我的孩子和孫子們會去購買貼有「真蕈種植」標語的食品 感謝大家的聆聽 (掌聲)
