Talk	en	zh-tw
mohamed_ali_the_link_between_unemployment_and_terrorism	"I would like to talk to you about a story about a small town kid. I don't know his name, but I do know his story. He lives in a small village in southern Somalia. His village is near Mogadishu. Drought drives the small village into poverty and to the brink of starvation. With nothing left for him there, he leaves for the big city, in this case, Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia. When he arrives, there are no opportunities, no jobs, no way forward. He ends up living in a tent city on the outskirts of Mogadishu. Maybe a year passes, nothing. One day, he's approached by a gentleman who offers to take him to lunch, then to dinner, to breakfast. He meets this dynamic group of people, and they give him a break. He's given a bit of money to buy himself some new clothes, money to send back home to his family. He is introduced to this young woman. He eventually gets married. He starts this new life. He has a purpose in life. One beautiful day in Mogadishu, under an azure blue sky, a car bomb goes off. That small town kid with the big city dreams was the suicide bomber, and that dynamic group of people were al Shabaab, a terrorist organization linked to al Qaeda. So how does the story of a small town kid just trying to make it big in the city end up with him blowing himself up? He was waiting. He was waiting for an opportunity, waiting to begin his future, waiting for a way forward, and this was the first thing that came along. This was the first thing that pulled him out of what we call waithood. And his story repeats itself in urban centers around the world. It is the story of the disenfranchised, unemployed urban youth who sparks riots in Johannesburg, sparks riots in London, who reaches out for something other than waithood. For young people, the promise of the city, the big city dream is that of opportunity, of jobs, of wealth, but young people are not sharing in the prosperity of their cities. Often it's youth who suffer from the highest unemployment rates. By 2030, three out of five people living in cities will be under the age of 18. If we do not include young people in the growth of our cities, if we do not provide them opportunities, the story of waithood, the gateway to terrorism, to violence, to gangs, will be the story of cities 2.0. And in my city of birth, Mogadishu, 70 percent of young people suffer from unemployment. 70 percent don't work, don't go to school. They pretty much do nothing. I went back to Mogadishu last month, and I went to visit Madina Hospital, the hospital I was born in. I remember standing in front of that bullet-ridden hospital thinking, what if I had never left? What if I had been forced into that same state of waithood? Would I have become a terrorist? I'm not really sure about the answer. My reason for being in Mogadishu that month was actually to host a youth leadership and entrepreneurship summit. I brought together about 90 young Somali leaders. We sat down and brainstormed on solutions to the biggest challenges facing their city. One of the young men in the room was Aden. He went to university in Mogadishu, graduated. There were no jobs, no opportunities. I remember him telling me, because he was a college graduate, unemployed, frustrated, that he was the perfect target for al Shabaab and other terrorist organizations, to be recruited. They sought people like him out. But his story takes a different route. In Mogadishu, the biggest barrier to getting from point A to point B are the roads. Twenty-three years of civil war have completely destroyed the road system, and a motorbike can be the easiest way to get around. Aden saw an opportunity and seized it. He started a motorbike company. He began renting out motorbikes to local residents who couldn't normally afford them. He bought 10 bikes, with the help of family and friends, and his dream is to eventually expand to several hundred within the next three years. How is this story different? What makes his story different? I believe it is his ability to identify and seize a new opportunity. It's entrepreneurship, and I believe entrepreneurship can be the most powerful tool against waithood. It empowers young people to be the creators of the very economic opportunities they are so desperately seeking. And you can train young people to be entrepreneurs. I want to talk to you about a young man who attended one of my meetings, Mohamed Mohamoud, a florist. He was helping me train some of the young people at the summit in entrepreneurship and how to be innovative and how to create a culture of entrepreneurship. He's actually the first florist Mogadishu has seen in over 22 years, and until recently, until Mohamed came along, if you wanted flowers at your wedding, you used plastic bouquets shipped from abroad. If you asked someone, ""When was the last time you saw fresh flowers?"" for many who grew up under civil war, the answer would be, ""Never."" So Mohamed saw an opportunity. He started a landscaping and design floral company. He created a farm right outside of Mogadishu, and started growing tulips and lilies, which he said could survive the harsh Mogadishu climate. And he began delivering flowers to weddings, creating gardens at homes and businesses around the city, and he's now working on creating Mogadishu's first public park in 22 years. There's no public park in Mogadishu. He wants to create a space where families, young people, can come together, and, as he says, smell the proverbial roses. And he doesn't grow roses because they use too much water, by the way. So the first step is to inspire young people, and in that room, Mohamed's presence had a really profound impact on the youth in that room. They had never really thought about starting up a business. They've thought about working for an NGO, working for the government, but his story, his innovation, really had a strong impact on them. He forced them to look at their city as a place of opportunity. He empowered them to believe that they could be entrepreneurs, that they could be change makers. By the end of the day, they were coming up with innovative solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing their city. They came up with entrepreneurial solutions to local problems. So inspiring young people and creating a culture of entrepreneurship is a really great step, but young people need capital to make their ideas a reality. They need expertise and mentorship to guide them in developing and launching their businesses. Connect young people with the resources they need, provide them the support they need to go from ideation to creation, and you will create catalysts for urban growth. For me, entrepreneurship is more than just starting up a business. It's about creating a social impact. Mohamed is not simply selling flowers. I believe he is selling hope. His Peace Park, and that's what he calls it, when it's created, will actually transform the way people see their city. Aden hired street kids to help rent out and maintain those bikes for him. He gave them the opportunity to escape the paralysis of waithood. These young entrepreneurs are having a tremendous impact in their cities. So my suggestion is, turn youth into entrepreneurs, incubate and nurture their inherent innovation, and you will have more stories of flowers and Peace Parks than of car bombs and waithood. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想告訴你一個小鎮男孩的故事。我不知道他的名字，但是我知道他的故事。他住在索馬利亞南邊的小村子裡，靠近摩加迪休的村莊。乾旱迫使小村莊變得貧窮，即將面臨飢荒。那裡沒能給他任何東西，因此他前往大城市。這個故事在摩加迪休，索馬利亞的首都。當他抵達時，沒有任何機會，沒有工作，沒有前進的方向。最後他在一個帳篷城市落腳，位在摩加迪休郊區。也許一年過後，仍然一無所有。有一天，一位紳士找上他，帶他去吃午餐，再帶他去吃晚餐、吃早餐。他碰到飄忽不定的這群人，他們讓他喘了口氣。給他一筆錢，讓他為自己買些新衣服，給他回家的錢。他被介紹給一位年輕女性，最後結婚了。他開始新生活。他的生活有了目標。在摩加迪休某個風和日麗的日子，蔚藍晴空下，汽車炸彈爆炸了。懷抱大城市夢想的小鎮男孩是那名自殺客，而飄忽不定的那群人是索馬里青年黨，一個恐怖組織，與蓋達組織結盟。這個故事怎麼會從小鎮男孩在大城市創造大夢想變成他炸了自己？他在等待。等待一個機會，等待能展開他的未來，等待一個前進的方向，而這是第一件出現的事。這是第一件讓他擺脫的事，擺脫我們所謂的等待成年期 (waithood)。他的故事不斷重演，發生在全世界的市中心。這故事是關於喪失公民權的失業城市青年在約翰尼斯堡引發暴動，在倫敦引發暴動，他們期待得到某種東西，而非等待成年期。對年輕人來說，城市給的承諾意謂著，大城市夢想就是那樣工作和財富的機會，但是年輕人分享不到城市的繁榮。青年往往有最高的失業率。到了 2030 年，60% 的城市居民會低於 18 歲。如果我們不把這群年輕人納入城市發展的考量，如果我們不提供他們機會，這樣等待成年期的故事、通往恐怖行動、暴力、幫派的途徑將成為城市 2.0 的故事。在我出生的城市摩加迪休，有 70% 的年輕人受失業所苦。70% 的人不工作也不上學。幾乎是什麼事都沒做。上個月我回到摩加迪休，去了一趟梅迪納醫院，我在那間醫院出生。我記得站在那彈痕累累的醫院前想著如果我從未離開，會是什麼樣子？如果我被迫擁有那種等待成年期的狀態，會是什麼樣子？我會變成恐怖分子嗎？我不太確定答案是什麼。那個月我到摩加迪休的原因其實是要主持一場青年領導與企業家精神的高峰會。我聚集了 90 名索馬利領袖。我們齊聚一堂，集思廣益，希望能解決各自城市面臨的最大挑戰。其中有名年輕男孩叫亞丁，他在摩加迪休唸大學，之後畢業了。那裡沒有工作，沒有機會。我記得他告訴我因為他是大學畢業生，失業又失意，他會是青年黨和其它恐怖組織吸收的完美對象。他們找出像他這樣的人。但是他的故事走了另一條路。在摩加迪休，從甲地到乙地最大的阻礙是道路。23 年的內戰完全催毀道路系統，摩托車是最容易四處移動的方式。亞丁看見機會，緊緊抓住。他開了一間摩托車店，開始租摩托車給那些通常買不起車的當地居民。他買了十台摩托車，仰賴親友協助，他最終的夢想是要在三年後擴展到幾百台車。這個故事怎會不同？是什麼因素讓他的故事不同？我相信是他的能力讓他發現和抓住一個新機會。那是企業家精神，我相信企業家精神可以成為對抗等待成年期最強而有力的工具。它賦予年輕人權力，讓他們成為自己不顧一切去追求的商機的開創者。你可以訓練青年成為企業家。我想告訴你一位參與一場會議的年輕人，穆罕默德．馬穆特，一位花店主人，他在高峰會幫我培訓一些年輕人學習企業家精神、如何創新，以及如何建立企業家精神的文化。其實他是摩加迪休 22 年來第一位花店主人，直到最近穆罕默德出現，如果你希望婚禮上有花，通常會用塑膠花束，從海外運來。如果你問某個人：「你最後一次看到鮮花是什麼時候？」很多在內戰時期長大的人會回答：「從來沒有。」因此穆罕默德看見機會。他開了一間景觀與花藝設計公司。他經營了一個農場，就在摩加迪休外，開始種鬱金香和百合，他說這兩種花能在摩加迪休嚴酷的氣候下生存。他開始送花到婚禮上，為城市中的家庭和公司設計花園，目前他在設計摩加迪休 22 年來的第一座公園。摩加迪休沒有公園。他希望能創造一個地方，讓家人、年輕人都能一起來，如他所說，聞聞傳說中的玫瑰花香。附帶一提，他沒有種玫瑰，因為那要很多水。因此，要激勵年輕人的第一步，在那個會議廳裡，穆罕默德的現身對在場年輕人的影響非常深遠。他們從沒有真的想過要創業。他們曾想過要為非政府組織工作，為政府工作，但是他的故事，他的創新，對他們的影響很大。他強迫他們把自己的城市看做機會之地。他讓他們相信自己能成為企業家，他們可以是改變的人。到了當天活動的尾聲，他們想出創新的解決方式來處理城市所面臨的最大挑戰。他們想出用企業家的方法來解決當地問題。因此，激勵年輕人並創造企業家文化是很重要的一步，但是年輕人需要資本讓他們的想法實現。他們需要專業知識和師徒關係，指引他們開創並積極投入自己的事業。幫助年輕人連結他們所需的資源，協助他們從概念構想到實際創造，如此一來你就能刺激城市發展。對我來說，企業家精神比只是創業還重要。企業家精神能影響社會。穆罕默德不只是賣花而已。我相信他還販賣希望。他把他的公園命名為和平公園，當它完工時就會實際改變人們觀看所在城市的方式。亞丁雇用流浪兒童幫忙出租和維修他店裡的摩托車。他讓這些孩子有機會逃離不知所措的等待成年期。這些年輕的企業家為他們的城市帶來廣大的影響。因此我建議讓青年成為企業家，培養、孕育他們與生俱來的創造力，你就能聽到更多關於花與和平公園的故事，而非汽車炸彈和等待成年期。謝謝。（掌聲）
