Talk	en	zh-tw
monica_araya_a_small_country_with_big_ideas_to_get_rid_of_fossil_fuels	"How do we build a society without fossil fuels? This is a very complex challenge, and I believe developing countries could take the lead in this transition. And I'm aware that this is a contentious statement, but the reality is that so much is at stake in our countries if we let fossil fuels stay at the center of our development. We can do it differently. And it's time, it really is time, to debunk the myth that a country has to choose between development on the one hand and environmental protection, renewables, quality of life, on the other. I come from Costa Rica, a developing country. We are nearly five million people, and we live right in the middle of the Americas, so it's very easy to remember where we live. Nearly 100 percent of our electricity comes from renewable sources, five of them. (Applause) Hydropower, geothermal, wind, solar, biomass. Did you know that last year, for 299 days, we did not use any fossil fuels in order to generate all our electricity? It's a fantastic achievement, and yet, it hides a paradox, which is that nearly 70 percent of all our energy consumption is oil. Why? Because of our transportation system, which is totally dependent on fossil fuels, like it is in most countries. So if we think of the energy transition as a marathon, the question is, how do we get to the finish line, how do we decarbonize the rest of the economy? And it's fair to say that if we don't succeed, it's difficult to see who will. So that is why I want to talk to you about Costa Rica, because I believe we are a great candidate in pioneering a vision for development without fossil fuels. If you know one thing about our country, it's that we don't have an army. So I'm going to take you back to 1948. That year, the country was coming out of civil war. Thousands of Costa Ricans had died, and families were bitterly split. And yet, a surprising idea won the hearts and minds: we would reboot the country, and that Second Republic would have no army. So we abolished it. And the president at the time, José Figueres, found a powerful way by smashing the walls of an army base. The following year, 1949, we made that decision permanent in the new constitution, and that is why I can tell you that story nearly 70 years later. And I'm grateful. I'm grateful they made that decision before I was born, because it allowed me and millions of others to live in a very stable country. And you might be thinking that it was good luck, but it wasn't. There was a pattern of deliberate choices. In the '40s, Costa Ricans were given free education and free health care. We called that social guarantees. By abolishing the army, we were able to turn military spending into social spending, and that was a driver of stability. In the '50s — (Applause) In the '50s, we started investing in hydropower, and that kept us away from the trap of using fossil fuels for electricity generation, which is what the world is struggling with today. In the '70s we invested in national parks, and that kept us away from the deeply flawed logic of growth, growth, growth at any cost that you see others embracing, especially in the developing world. In the '90s, we pioneered payments for ecosystem services, and that helped us reverse deforestation and boosted ecotourism, which today is a key engine of growth. So investing in environmental protection did not hurt our economy. Quite the opposite. And it doesn't mean we are perfect, and it doesn't mean we don't have contradictions. That's not the point. The point is that, by making our own choices, we were able to develop resilience in dealing with development problems. Also, if you take a country like ours, the GDP per capita is around 11,000 dollars, depending on how you measure it. But according to the Social Progress Index, we are an absolute outlier when it comes to turning GDP into social progress. Abolishing the army, investing in nature and people, did something very powerful, too. It shaped the narrative, the narrative of a small country with big ideas, and it was very empowering to grow up with that narrative. So the question is, what is the next big idea for this generation? And I believe what comes next is for this generation to let go of fossil fuels for good, just as we did with the army. Fossil fuels create climate change. We know that, and we know how vulnerable we are to the impacts of climate change. So as a developing country, it is in our best interest to build development without fossil fuels that harm people in the first place. Because why would we continue importing oil for transportation if we can use electricity instead? Remember, this is the country where electricity comes from water in our rivers, heat from volcanoes, wind turbines, solar panels, biowaste. Abolishing fossil fuels means disrupting our transportation system so that we can power our cars, buses and trains with electricity instead of dirty energy. And transportation, let me tell you, has become an existential issue for us Costa Ricans, because the model we have is not working for us. It's hurting people, it's hurting companies, and it's hurting our health. Because when policies and infrastructure fail, this is what happens on a daily basis. Two hours in the morning, two hours in the evening. I don't understand why we have to accept this as normal. It's offensive to have to waste our time like this every single day. And this highway is actually quite good compared to what you see in other countries where traffic is exploding. You know, Costa Ricans call this ""presa."" Presa means ""imprisoned."" And people are turning violent in a country that is otherwise happy in pura vida. It's happening. So a lot is at stake. The good news is that when we talk about clean transportation and different mobility, we're not talking about some distant utopia out there. We're talking about electric mobility that is happening today. By 2022, electric cars and conventional cars are expected to cost the same, and cities are already trying electric buses. And these really cool creatures are saving money, and they reduce pollution. So if we want to get rid of oil-based transportation, we can, because we have options now that we didn't have before. It's really exciting. But of course, some get very uncomfortable with this idea, and they will come and they will tell you that the world is stuck with oil, and so is Costa Rica, so get real. That's what they tell you. And you know what the answer to that argument is? That in 1948, we didn't say the world is stuck with armies, so let's keep our army, too. No, we made a very brave choice, and that choice made the whole difference. So it's time for this generation to be brave again and abolish fossil fuels for good. And I'll give you three reasons why we have to do this. First, our model of transportation and urbanization is broken, so this is the best moment to redefine our urban and mobility future. We don't want cities that are built for cars. We want cities for people where we can walk and we can use bikes. And we want public transportation, lots of it, public transportation that is clean and dignifying. Because if we continue adding fleets of conventional cars, our cities will become unbearable. Second, we have to change, but incremental change is not going to be sufficient. We need transformational change. And there are some incremental projects in my country, and I am the first one to celebrate them. But let's not kid ourselves. We're not talking about ending up with really beautiful electric cars here and a few electric buses there while we keep investing in the same kind of infrastructure, more cars, more roads, more oil. We're talking about breaking free from oil, and you cannot get there through incrementalism. Third, and you know this one, the world is hungry for inspiration. It craves stories of success in dealing with complex issues, especially in developing countries. So I believe Costa Rica can be an inspiration to others, as we did last year when we disclosed that for so many days we were not using any fossil fuels in order to generate all our electricity. The news went viral around the world. Also, and this makes me extremely proud, a Costa Rican woman, Christiana Figueres, played a decisive role in the negotiations of the Paris climate agreement. So we have to protect that legacy and be an example. So what comes next? The people. How do we get people to own this? How do we get people to believe that it's possible to build a society without fossil fuels? A lot of work from the ground up is needed. That is why, in 2014, we created Costa Rica Limpia. ""Limpia"" means ""clean,"" because we want to empower and we want to inspire citizens. If citizens don't get engaged, clean transportation decisions will be bogged down by endless, and I mean endless, technical discussions, and by avalanches of lobbying by various established interests. Wanting to be a green country powered by renewables is already part of our story. We should not let anybody take that away from us. Last year, we brought people from our seven provinces to talk about climate change in terms that matter to them, and we also brought this year another group of Costa Ricans to talk about renewable energy. And you know what? These people disagree on almost everything except on renewable energy and clean transportation and clean air. It brings people together. And the key to real participation is to help people not to feel small. People feel powerless, and they are tired of not being heard. So what we do is concrete things, and we translate technical issues into citizen language to show that citizens have a role to play and can play it together. For the first time, we're tracking the promises that were made on clean transportation, and politicos know that they have to deliver it, but the tipping point will come when we form coalitions — citizens, companies, champions of public transportation — that will make electric mobility the new normal, especially in a developing country. By the time the next election comes, I believe every candidate will have to disclose where they stand on the abolition of fossil fuels. Because this question has to enter our mainstream politics. And I'm telling you, this is not a question of climate policy or environmental agenda. It's about the country that we want and the cities that we have and the cities that we want and who makes that choice. Because at the end of the day, what we have to show is that development with renewable energy is good for the people, for Costa Ricans that are alive today and especially for those who haven't been born. This is our National Museum today. It's bright and peaceful, and when you stand up in front of it, it's really hard to believe these were military barracks at the end of the '40s. We started a new life without an army in this place, and here is where our abolition of fossil fuels will be announced one day. And we will make history again. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們要如何建立一個沒有石化燃料的社會? 這是個很複雜艱困的挑戰，我相信發展中國家可以為這個改變起帶頭作用。我知道這樣的說法很有爭議性，但現實問題是，如果我們把石化燃料列為國家發展的重點，我們將會付出慘痛的代價。我們必須創新。而且是時候，真的是時候去揭穿國家只能在經濟發展及環境保護議題中擇一發展的迷思，要經濟發展就沒有再生能源、沒有生活品質，這種錯誤的迷思。 我來自哥斯大黎加，一個發展中的國家。我們將近有五百萬的人口，我們位處美洲的中心，所以很容易記得我們居住的地方。我們的電力，100%，來自再生能源，有五種。 （掌聲） 水力發電、地熱發電、風力發電、太陽能、生物質能。 不知各位是否知道，我們去年，連續299天，我們沒有使用任何的石化燃料來生產我們的電力？這是一個了不起的成就，但，這背後隱藏了一個似是而非的論點，我們70%的能源消耗都是石油。 為什麼？因為我們的運輸系統幾乎完全仰賴石化燃料，就像其他國家一樣。所以如果我們將能源過渡，視為一場馬拉松，那麽問題來了，我們如何才能到抵達終點線？其餘的經濟發展要如何「脫碳」？幾乎可以這麼說，如果我們無法成功，那其它國家也很難做到。這也是為什麼我要向各位談談哥斯大黎加，因為我相信，我們在不使用石化燃料的發展藍圖中是一個不錯的候選人。 如果各位認識我們的國家，其中一件事就是，我們是沒有軍隊的。所以接下來，我想帶各位回到1948那年。那一年，哥斯大黎加剛從一場內戰中解脫。好幾千人死亡，好幾個家庭流離失所。但是，一個令人驚訝的想法得到了大家的支持：我們將重新建立我們的國家，而且第二個共和國不會再有軍隊。所以我們廢除了軍隊。而當時的總統何塞·菲格雷斯，藉由敲毀軍事基地的圍牆，向世人宣示全國人民的決心，接下來的1949年，我們將這項決定永久地列入國家的憲法裡，這也是為什麼，將近70年後，我可以向各位訴說這段故事。我很感激，我很感激他們在我出生之前做了這個決定，因為這個決定，讓我和好幾百萬個國人可以生活在一個非常穩定的國家裏。 各位可能會認為，那只是我們運氣好，但這並不是，這一切是深思熟慮後，所下的決定。在40年代，哥斯大黎加人民擁有免費教育及醫療照顧的福利。我們把這些叫做社會保障。廢除軍隊後，我們可以將軍事上的開銷移轉到社會福利上，而這也是我們國家能穩定成長的原因。在50年代—— （掌聲） 在50年代，我們開始投資水力發電這也使我們避免落入用石化燃料發電的陷阱裡，而現在全世界都在這個陷阱中掙扎。在70年代，我們投資了國家公園，而這也使我們遠離了「不惜一切代價發展、發展、發展」大錯特錯的邏輯，但這個畸形的理念卻被許多發展中國家所推崇。在90年代，我們首先提出了支付生態系統保護工作者工資的政策，而這幫助我們逆轉了森林砍伐的後果，同時促進了生態的旅遊，這也是我們國家成長的重要引擎。所以，投資在環境保護上，並不會傷害我們的經濟，反而成為了我們國家發展的大功臣。 但這並不代表我們是完美的，也不代表我們沒有矛盾過。這不是重點，重點是，因為我們自己的選擇，我們得以發展出堅韌的意志力來處理發展的問題。 而且，以我們國家為例，我們的人均GDP大約1萬1美金，這要看你怎麼計算。但根據社會進步指數的數據，將GDP轉到社會發展上面的比例，我們絕對是數一數二的。廢除軍隊、投資大自然與人民，這幾點，都對我們的發展做出了不可磨滅的貢獻。這一切造就了我們的故事，小國家也能做大事的故事，而我們的國家也伴隨著這個故事，慢慢發展起來。 那麽問題來了，我們這一代的要做的大事又是什麼呢？而我相信，我們這一代為了將來，會廢除石化燃料的使用，就像我們廢除軍隊一樣。 石化燃料造成了氣候變化。我們都懂這一點，我們也都知道，在面對氣候變遷時，我們人類是不堪一擊的。所以身為一個發展中國家，在開發過程中，摒棄石化燃料的使用對我們才是最佳的選擇，因為使用石化燃料，就是在傷害我們自己。因為如果我們的交通運輸可以用電力代替，那又何必要繼續進口石油呢？ 記得，我們國家的電力是來自河流中的水力、來自火山的地熱、來自渦輪機的風力、太陽能板、生物廢料。廢除石化燃料的使用，意味著交通系統也會跟著變革，所以我們就可以用電能來發動汽車、公共汽車和火車，而不再是用會汙染環境的石油。 讓我告訴各位，哥斯大黎加的交通運輸問題一直困擾著人民，因為現存的交通網路根本不適合我們，它引響了人民的權益，也傷害公司的利益、同時也在影響著我們的健康。 當政策與基礎建設都失敗的時候，就會造成這樣的情形。早上塞了兩個小時，晚上還要塞兩個小時我不明白為什麼我們必須接受這樣的常態，每天要浪費這麼多的時間在路上，是很令人不快的。而這條高速公路比起其它國家的塞車情況還算是不嚴重的。哥斯大黎加人民把這個叫做 ”Presa“ (西班牙語)。“ Presa” 是被囚禁的意思。而本該是在一個國家裏過著純凈生活的人們開始變得浮躁，暴力。這正在發生中。所以很多美好的事都受到了威脅。 好消息是，當我們提到純凈無汙染的交通系統和不一樣的運輸系統時，我們不是在討論遙不可及的純凈樂土。我們談的電能運輸是目前已經正在發生的事。到2020年前，電動汽車與傳統汽車的成本預測會來到一致的水平，而且有的城市已經開始嘗試使用電動公共汽車了。而這些酷炫的高科技產品能替我們省很多錢，還能降低汙染。所以，如果我們真的想擺脫以石油為基礎的大眾運輸，我們是辦的到的，因為我們有著前所未有的機會。這真的是非常激動人心。 但當然，有些人會對這想法感到不快，然後他們會跳出來跟你說，整個世界只能被石油左右，哥斯大黎加也在所難免，所以面對現實吧。這是他們會給你灌輸的想法。那你知道如何回應他們嗎？1948年，我們並沒有說因為世界都仍在戰亂，所以我們繼續保留軍隊吧。不，我們做了一個勇敢的決定，而且這個決定為世界帶來了翻天覆地的改變。 所以是時候該我們這一代人再次地勇敢站出來說，為了大家好，把石化燃料徹底廢除吧！而且我也有三個理由來解釋我們為什麽一定要這樣做。 第一，我們的運輸及城市化模式已經崩潰，所以現在是重新定義城市和運輸系統未來的最佳時機。我們不想要為「汽車」建立城市。我們想要為「人民」建立城市，在那裏我們可以走路，可以騎自行車。並且我們想要大眾交通工具，而且我們需要很多，純凈無汙染且高尚的大眾運輸系統。因為如果我們繼續增加更多的傳統汽車，我們的城市將不堪重負。 第二，我們必須改變，但是漸進式的改變是不夠的。我們需要的是徹底轉型式的改變。我們的國家也在實施一些漸進式的改善計劃，而我也是第一個為這些計劃叫好的人。但是別自欺欺人了，我們談的不是這裏以後會有漂亮的電動汽車那裏又會有幾輛電動公共汽車，如果我們持續投資跟以前一樣的城市基礎設施，這只會造成一樣的車多，路多，油多。我們談的是，徹底從石油中解脫，僅透過漸進式的改變根本辦不到。 第三，各位應該也清楚，世界渴望鼓舞人心的典範。成功處理複雜事件的背後，隱藏著刻苦銘心的故事，特別是在發展中國家。所以我覺得哥斯大黎加可以成為別國的典範，就像去年，我們向世界宣告我們已經有很長一段時間都沒有用石油來發電一樣。這則消息像病毒一樣傳遍了全世界。這件事也讓我感到非常的自豪，一位哥斯大黎加的女性，克裏斯汀安娜·菲格雷斯，在巴黎氣候協議中的談判起到了關鍵性的作用。所以我們會守護這個成就，成為全世界的榜樣。 那麽接下來呢？人民。我們要如何才能讓大家接受這個想法呢？我們如何才能讓人們相信建造一個沒有石化燃料的社會是有可能的？很多基本工都要紮實，這是必經過程。 這就是為什麽，在2014年的時候，我們創建了 Costa Rica Limpia（純淨哥斯大黎加）""Limpia"" (西班牙語）的意思是 「乾淨」，因為我們想啟發、鼓勵我們的公民。如果公民不參與純淨無汙染的運輸系統決策將遙遙無期，我的意思是，它將會被永無止盡的技術研討會和代表不同利益的組織所遊說阻撓。成為一個由再生資源供電的綠色國家，已經深植在我們國人的內心，我們不會讓任何人奪走屬於我們的故事。 去年，來自七個省的民眾，聚在一起討論氣候變化對他們的影響，今年，我們又聚集了另一群哥斯大黎加人民，討論再生能源。各位知道嗎？這群人除了再生資源、無汙染交通運輸和空氣清淨議題有一致的共識外。幾乎反對所有的事情。這件事讓人民更團結了。 真正能引導民眾積極參與的關鍵，是要讓他們覺得，自己並不渺小。人民常感到心有無力，他們對於自己的聲音沒被傾聽已倍感疲憊。所以我們要做的就是基礎的建立，把專業的問題翻譯成人民聽得懂的語言，這樣才能讓人民覺得他們也是重要的一分子，也能有所貢獻。這是第一次，我們會追蹤我們對無汙染交通運輸所許下的承諾，而政客們也知道他們必須達成這個目標，一旦我們將市民、公司、大眾運輸的擁護者集結起來，轉戾點就會到來，如此電能交通就會是新的常態，特別是在發展中國家。 在下一屆選舉到來的時候，我相信每一位候選人都必須在廢除石化燃料的議題上表態。因為這類議題必需成為政治的主流。而且我要告訴各位，這並不是一個氣候政策的問題，也不是一個保護環境的議題。這一切都是為了我們想要的理想國度、理想的城市、我們夢想的城市，這一切都取決於我們的決定。因為到最後，我們會證明再生能源的發展是對人們有益的、是對現在的哥斯大黎加人民有益的、是對尚未出生的後代有益的。 這棟建築是我們的國家博物館。明亮而平和，而當你站在它前面時，很難相信這裏曾經是40年代末的軍事堡壘。我們在這個沒有軍隊的地方展開了一段新的生活，而這裏終有一天也會是我們向世人宣布我們廢除了使用石化燃料的地方，而且我們會再次創造歷史。 感謝各位！ （掌聲）"
