Talk	en	zh-tw
munir_virani_why_i_love_vultures	"I would like to talk to you about a very special group of animals. There are 10,000 species of birds in the world. Vultures are amongst the most threatened group of birds. When you see a vulture like this, the first thing that comes to your mind is, these are disgusting, ugly, greedy creatures that are just after your flesh, associated with politicians. (Laughter) (Applause) I want to change that perception. I want to change those feelings you have for these birds, because they need our sympathy. They really do. (Laughter) And I'll tell you why. First of all, why do they have such a bad press? When Charles Darwin went across the Atlantic in 1832 on the Beagle, he saw the turkey vulture, and he said, ""These are disgusting birds with bald scarlet heads that are formed to revel in putridity."" (Laughter) You could not get a worse insult, and that from Charles Darwin. (Laughter) You know, he changed his mind when he came back, and I'll tell you why. They've also be associated with Disney — (Laughter) — personified as goofy, dumb, stupid characters. More recently, if you've been following the Kenyan press — (Laughter) (Applause) (Cheers) — these are the attributes that they associated the Kenyan MPs with. But I want to challenge that. I want to challenge that. Do you know why? Because MPs do not keep the environment clean. (Laughter) MPs do not help to prevent the spread of diseases. They are hardly monogamous. (Laughter) (Applause) They are far from being extinct. (Laughter) And, my favorite is, vultures are better looking. (Applause) (Laughter) So there's two types of vultures in this planet. There are the New World vultures that are mainly found in the Americas, like the condors and the caracaras, and then the Old World vultures, where we have 16 species. From these 16, 11 of them are facing a high risk of extinction. So why are vultures important? First of all, they provide vital ecological services. They clean up. They're our natural garbage collectors. They clean up carcasses right to the bone. They help to kill all the bacteria. They help absorb anthrax that would otherwise spread and cause huge livestock losses and diseases in other animals. Recent studies have shown that in areas where there are no vultures, carcasses take up to three to four times to decompose, and this has huge ramifications for the spread of diseases. Vultures also have tremendous historical significance. They have been associated in ancient Egyptian culture. Nekhbet was the symbol of the protector and the motherhood, and together with the cobra, symbolized the unity between Upper and Lower Egypt. In Hindu mythology, Jatayu was the vulture god, and he risked his life in order to save the goddess Sita from the 10-headed demon Ravana. In Tibetan culture, they are performing very important sky burials. In places like Tibet, there are no places to bury the dead, or wood to cremate them, so these vultures provide a natural disposal system. So what is the problem with vultures? We have eight species of vultures that occur in Kenya, of which six are highly threatened with extinction. The reason is that they're getting poisoned, and the reason that they're getting poisoned is because there's human-wildlife conflicts. The pastoral communities are using this poison to target predators, and in return, the vultures are falling victim to this. In South Asia, in countries like India and Pakistan, four species of vultures are listed as critically endangered, which means they have less than 10 or 15 years to go extinct, and the reason is because they are falling prey by consuming livestock that has been treated with a painkilling drug like Diclofenac. This drug has now been banned for veterinary use in India, and they have taken a stand. Because there are no vultures, there's been a spread in the numbers of feral dogs at carcass dump sites, and when you have feral dogs, you have a huge time bomb of rabies. The number of cases of rabies has increased tremendously in India. Kenya is going to have one of the largest wind farms in Africa: 353 wind turbines are going to be up at Lake Turkana. I am not against wind energy, but we need to work with the governments, because wind turbines do this to birds. They slice them in half. They are bird-blending machines. In West Africa, there's a horrific trade of dead vultures to serve the witchcraft and the fetish market. So what's being done? Well, we're conducting research on these birds. We're putting transmitters on them. We're trying to determine their basic ecology, and see where they go. We can see that they travel different countries, so if you focus on a problem locally, it's not going to help you. We need to work with governments in regional levels. We're working with local communities. We're talking to them about appreciating vultures, about the need from within to appreciate these wonderful creatures and the services that they provide. How can you help? You can become active, make noise. You can write a letter to your government and tell them that we need to focus on these very misunderstood creatures. Volunteer your time to spread the word. Spread the word. When you walk out of this room, you will be informed about vultures, but speak to your families, to your children, to your neighbors about vultures. They are very graceful. Charles Darwin said he changed his mind because he watched them fly effortlessly without energy in the skies. Kenya, this world, will be much poorer without these wonderful species. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	讓我來為你介紹一種非常特別的動物 世界上有一萬種不同的鳥類禿鷹是所有鳥類中最受威脅的一種當你看到這樣的禿鷹你的腦海裡浮現的第一個念頭是這真是噁心、醜陋、貪婪的生物也讓你聯想到政客（大笑）（掌聲）我想改變你的看法我想改變你對這些鳥類的感覺因為他們需要我們的同情，非常需要。（笑聲）稍後我將告訴你為什麼 首先，為什麼大家對禿鷹的印象這麼差？當達爾文在1832年橫跨大西洋時在小獵犬號上，他看見土耳其禿鷹他說：「這些是為了沉溺墮落而生的無毛、紅頭的噁心鳥類。」（笑聲）你想不到更惡毒的侮辱了，而這卻出自於達爾文之口。（笑聲）但是，他在回來後改變了他的想法之後我再告訴你為什麼另外，迪士尼也已經把禿鷹列入角色之一了（笑聲）裡頭包括了像高飛狗一樣象徵愚笨的角色 如果你最近看到肯亞的報導（笑聲）（鼓掌）（歡呼）牠們們還被看作是肯亞的國會議員但是我想要抗議這件事你知道我為什麼想要抗議這件事嗎？因為國會議員不會讓環境更乾淨（笑聲）國會議員無助於預防疾病的散播而且還很難做到一夫一妻制（笑聲）（鼓掌）得要很久才會絕種（笑聲）而且我最喜歡的一點是，禿鷹長得比較好看（笑聲）（鼓掌） 這裡有現存的兩種禿鷹有在美國被發現的新世界禿鷹像是兀鷹、卡拉卡拉鷹以及有十六種的舊世界禿鷹在這十六種當中有十一種瀕臨絕種 為什麼禿鷹很重要呢？首先，牠們在生態中提供了非常重要的服務牠們是大自然的清道夫，為我們清理垃圾牠們清理屍骨殘骸牠們幫忙殺死細菌、吸收炭疽病毒阻止可能大量傳播造成無數生物死亡或得病的病菌最近的研究報告指出在沒有禿鷹的地區，屍體需要經過三到四倍的時間來分解與腐爛這樣的過程讓疾病交錯傳染 禿鷹也具有許多重要歷史性的意義禿鷹讓人們聯想到了埃及文化奈克貝特是保護者與母性的象徵與眼鏡蛇同時出現時則象徵了上埃及與下埃及的團結與統一在印度神話中，加達羽是禿鷹之神牠冒著生命危險從十頭惡魔羅波那手中救出悉達女神在西藏文化裡，牠們在天葬中扮演了很重要的角色在某些地區，如西藏他們沒有地方或木材可以為亡者辦理火葬因此禿鷹提供了自然分解的機制 那麼禿鷹到底出了什麼問題？有八種禿鷹在肯亞出現其中有六種正瀕臨絕種的危機原因是被人類毒殺而被毒殺的原因則是人類與野生動物之間的衝突牧羊人毒死那些會掠食的動物結果是這些禿鷹成了犧牲者 在印度、巴基斯坦等南亞國家有四種禿鷹被列為極危物種意味著再過十五年牠們就會絕種了絕種的原因是因為牠們吃了被餵食像雙氯芬酸鈉這種止痛藥的生畜而成為了犧牲者這種藥物在印度的獸醫中已確定被列為禁藥因為沒有禿鷹的時候就會有無數的野狗在屍體丟棄場而當有野狗的時候就有了狂犬病爆發的不定時炸彈狂犬病已在印度以驚人的速度蔓延開來了 肯亞將要興建非洲最大型的風車農場353座風車將會座落在圖爾卡納湖我並不反對風力發電但是我們需要和各國政府合作因為風車會將鳥切成兩半，就像圖片裡的那樣它們是鳥類攪拌機在西非，有一種黑市交易是將禿鷹的屍體販賣給做巫術和戀物癖的人 目前我們已做了一些努力我們做了關於這些鳥的研究我們在這些鳥的身上放了傳輸器我們試著了解最基本的禿鷹生態然後看牠們將前往何處我們發現牠們在不同國家間來去所以如果只著重於單一地點，對解決問題毫無幫助我們需要與各國政府進行區域合作我們也和當地居民合作告訴他們如何欣賞禿鷹以及人類對這些美麗物種的需求以及牠們提供的幫助 怎樣參與合作呢？你可以開始行動積極表示意見，寫信給你的政府告訴當權者我們需要關注這些被誤會的物種花點時間分享這些內容，傳遞出去當你走出這間房間你將收到關於禿鷹的訊息告訴你的家庭、孩子和鄰居 禿鷹是一種優美的動物達爾文見到牠們在空間輕鬆飛翔的姿態時改變了他的想法如果沒有這樣美麗的物種肯亞和這個世界都將會變得更貧窮謝謝！（掌聲）
