Talk	en	zh-tw
myriam_sidibe_the_simple_power_of_hand_washing	So imagine that a plane is about to crash with 250 children and babies, and if you knew how to stop that, would you? Now imagine that 60 planes full of babies under five crash every single day. That's the number of kids that never make it to their fifth birthday. 6.6 million children never make it to their fifth birthday. Most of these deaths are preventable, and that doesn't just make me sad, it makes me angry, and it makes me determined. Diarrhea and pneumonia are among the top two killers of children under five, and what we can do to prevent these diseases isn't some smart, new technological innovations. It's one of the world's oldest inventions: a bar of soap. Washing hands with soap, a habit we all take for granted, can reduce diarrhea by half, can reduce respiratory infections by one third. Handwashing with soap can have an impact on reducing flu, trachoma, SARS, and most recently in the case of cholera and Ebola outbreak, one of the key interventions is handwashing with soap. Handwashing with soap keeps kids in school. It stops babies from dying. Handwashing with soap is one of the most cost-effective ways of saving children's lives. It can save over 600,000 children every year. That's the equivalent of stopping 10 jumbo jets full of babies and children from crashing every single day. I think you'll agree with me that that's a pretty useful public health intervention. So now just take a minute. I think you need to get to know the person next to you. Why don't you just shake their hands. Please shake their hands. All right, get to know each other. They look really pretty. All right. So what if I told you that the person whose hands you just shook actually didn't wash their hands when they were coming out of the toilet? (Laughter) They don't look so pretty anymore, right? Pretty yucky, you would agree with me. Well, statistics are actually showing that four people out of five don't wash their hands when they come out of the toilet, globally. And the same way, we don't do it when we've got fancy toilets, running water, and soap available, it's the same thing in the countries where child mortality is really high. What is it? Is there no soap? Actually, soap is available. In 90 percent of households in India, 94 percent of households in Kenya, you will find soap. Even in countries where soap is the lowest, like Ethiopia, we are at 50 percent. So why is it? Why aren't people washing their hands? Why is it that Mayank, this young boy that I met in India, isn't washing his hands? Well, in Mayank's family, soap is used for bathing, soap is used for laundry, soap is used for washing dishes. His parents think sometimes it's a precious commodity, so they'll keep it in a cupboard. They'll keep it away from him so he doesn't waste it. On average, in Mayank's family, they will use soap for washing hands once a day at the very best, and sometimes even once a week for washing hands with soap. What's the result of that? Children pick up disease in the place that's supposed to love them and protect them the most, in their homes. Think about where you learned to wash your hands. Did you learn to wash your hands at home? Did you learn to wash your hands in school? I think behavioral scientists will tell you that it's very difficult to change the habits that you have had early in life. However, we all copy what everyone else does, and local cultural norms are something that shape how we change our behavior, and this is where the private sector comes in. Every second in Asia and Africa, 111 mothers will buy this bar to protect their family. Many women in India will tell you they learned all about hygiene, diseases, from this bar of soap from Lifebuoy brand. Iconic brands like this one have a responsibility to do good in the places where they sell their products. It's that belief, plus the scale of Unilever, that allows us to keep talking about handwashing with soap and hygiene to these mothers. Big businesses and brands can change and shift those social norms and make a difference for those habits that are so stubborn. Think about it: Marketeers spend all their time making us switch from one brand to the other. And actually, they know how to transform science and facts into compelling messages. Just for a minute, imagine when they put all their forces behind a message as powerful as handwashing with soap. The profit motive is transforming health outcomes in this world. But it's been happening for centuries: the Lifebuoy brand was launched in 1894 in Victorian England to actually combat cholera. Last week, I was in Ghana with the minister of health, because if you don't know, there's a cholera outbreak in Ghana at the moment. A hundred and eighteen years later, the solution is exactly the same: It's about ensuring that they have access to this bar of soap, and that they're using it, because that's the number one way to actually stop cholera from spreading. I think this drive for profit is extremely powerful, sometimes more powerful than the most committed charity or government. Government is doing what they can, especially in terms of the pandemics and epidemics such as cholera, or Ebola at the moment, but with competing priorities. The budget is not always there. And when you think about this, you think about what is required to make handwashing a daily habit, it requires sustained funding to refine this behavior. In short, those that fight for public health are actually dependent upon the soap companies to keep promoting handwashing with soap. We have friends like USAID, the Global Public-Private Partnership for Handwashing with Soap, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Plan, WaterAid, that all believe for a win-win-win partnership. Win for the public sector, because we help them reach their targets. Win for the private sector, because we build new generations of future handwashers. And most importantly, win for the most vulnerable. On October 15, we will celebrate Global Handwashing Day. Schools, communities, our friends in the public sector and our friends in the private sector — yes, on that day even our competitors, we all join hands to celebrate the world's most important public health intervention. What's required, and again where the private sector can make a huge difference, is coming up with this big, creative thinking that drives advocacy. If you take our Help a Child Reach 5 campaign, we've created great films that bring the message of handwashing with soap to the everyday person in a way that can relate to them. We've had over 30 million views. Most of these discussions are still happening online. I urge you to take five minutes and look at those films. I come from Mali, one of the world's poorest countries. I grew up in a family where every dinner conversation was around social justice. I trained in Europe's premier school of public health. I think I'm probably one of the only women in my country with this high degree in health, and the only one with a doctorate in handwashing with soap. (Laughter) (Applause) Nine years ago, I decided, with a successful public health career in the making, that I could make the biggest impact coming, selling and promoting the world's best invention in public health: soap. We run today the world's largest handwashing program by any public health standards. We've reached over 183 million people in 16 countries. My team and I have the ambition to reach one billion by 2020. Over the last four years, business has grown double digits, whilst child mortality has reduced in all the places where soap use has increased. It may be uncomfortable for some to hear — business growth and lives saved somehow equated in the same sentence — but it is that business growth that allows us to keep doing more. Without it, and without talking about it, we cannot achieve the change that we need. Last week, my team and I spent time visiting mothers that have all experienced the same thing: the death of a newborn. I'm a mom. I can't imagine anything more powerful and more painful. This one is from Myanmar. She had the most beautiful smile, the smile, I think, that life gives you when you've had a second chance. Her son, Myo, is her second one. She had a daughter who passed away at three weeks, and we know that the majority of children that actually die die in the first month of their life, and we know that if we give a bar of soap to every skilled birth attendant, and that if soap is used  before touching the babies, we can reduce and make a change in terms of those numbers. And that's what inspires me, inspires me to continue in this mission, to know that I can equip her with what's needed so that she can do the most beautiful job in the world: nurturing her newborn. And next time you think of a gift for a new mom and her family, don't look far: buy her soap. It's the most beautiful invention in public health. I hope you will join us and make handwashing part of your daily lives and our daily lives and help more children like Myo reach their fifth birthday. Thank you. (Applause)	想像有台飛機快墜了，上面有 250 個小孩和嬰兒，如果你知道怎麼阻止悲劇發生，你會做嗎？ 請想像滿載五歲以下小孩的飛機每天都有 60 架會墜機，這數字正是無法活過五歲生日的孩童人數。660 萬名孩童沒能活過五歲生日。 這些死亡大多能避免，這種情況不僅讓我難過、更讓我生氣，也讓我下定決心。腹瀉和肺炎是五歲以下孩童的頭號殺手，我們能預防這些疾病的方法不是那種高明，又新穎的科技發明。就只是世界上最古老的發明：一塊肥皂。用肥皂洗手是我們都視為理所當然的習慣，卻能減少一半的腹瀉案例，也能減少三分之一的呼吸道感染。用肥皂洗手可以顯著減少流感、沙眼、嚴重急性呼吸道症候群 (SARS) ，和最近爆發的霍亂與伊波拉病毒案例，其中一項重要介入措施就是用肥皂洗手。用肥皂洗手能讓孩童繼續上學，也能讓嬰兒保住一命。用肥皂洗手是拯救孩童性命最合乎效益的方式之一。每年能拯救超過 60 萬名孩童，等於每天阻止10 架滿載嬰兒和孩童的波音 747 墜機。我想你們都同意那是很有效的公共衛生干預措施。 現在只要花一分鐘，我想你們應該認識鄰座的人，大家不妨握個手。請和他們握握手。接下來互相認識。他們看起來很棒。好了。如果我告訴你剛才和你握手的人其實沒洗手，他們才剛從廁所出來，感覺如何？（笑聲）他們看起來就沒那麼棒了吧？感覺蠻噁的，對吧？ 統計顯示，事實上有五分之四的人出了廁所不洗手，世界各地都是。同樣的，我們不會洗手，即使有高級的廁所、自來水和肥皂，情況完全和兒童死亡率高的國家一樣。 為什麼會這樣？沒有肥皂嗎？其實有肥皂可以用。90% 的印度家庭、94% 的肯亞家庭都找得到肥皂。即使在最窮苦的國家，像是衣索比亞，都還有一半的家庭有肥皂。 那是為什麼呢？為什麼大家不洗手？為什麼馬揚克這位我在印度碰到的男孩不洗手？在馬揚克家，肥皂用來洗澡，肥皂用來洗衣服，肥皂用來洗碗。他家人覺得有時候那是珍貴的商品，所以他們會把肥皂放進櫥櫃。放進櫥子裡才不會被他浪費了。通常馬揚克的家人會用肥皂來洗手，每天一次，那是最好的情況，但有時候甚至一週才用肥皂洗一次手。結果呢？小朋友染病的地方是在原本應該愛他們、無微不至保護他們的家裡。 回想你是在哪學洗手。你是在家裡學洗手嗎？你是在學校學洗手嗎？我想行為學家會告訴你要改變從小養成的習慣很難。 但我們都會模仿其他人的行為，而地方的文化規範是影響我們如何改變行為的關鍵，而這就是私部門的切入點。在亞洲和非洲，每秒有111 名母親會買這塊肥皂來保護家人。很多印度婦女會告訴你他們會了解衛生、疾病都是來自衛健牌的這塊肥皂。像這樣的知名品牌有責任幫助這些他們銷售商品的地方。是那份信念，加上聯合利華的規模，讓我們能不斷告訴這些媽媽用肥皂洗手和衛生觀念。 大型企業和廠牌可以改變、轉化那些社會規範，並影響那些食古不化的習慣。請想想：商人無時無刻都在努力讓我們不斷更換廠牌。其實他們知道要怎麼把科學和事實變成很有說服力的訊息。只要一分鐘，請想像他們火力全開去宣傳一個訊息，就和用肥皂洗手一樣有影響力的訊息。他們的獲利動機就變成全世界的健康。 但這件事已經好幾百年了，衛健牌從 1894 年維多利亞時代就開始對抗霍亂了。上個星期，我在迦納，和衛生部長在一起，你可能不知道霍亂才剛在迦納爆發。118 年後的現在解決方式仍然一樣，就是確保他們能夠取得這塊肥皂，並且真的使用肥皂，因為那是最好的方式能夠真正阻止霍亂蔓延。我想這項追求利益的動機很有影響力，有時候比最願意奉獻的慈善團體和政府更有影響力。 政府只能盡力而為，尤其是在面對全國流行的疾病，以及像霍亂這樣的傳染病，或是現在的伊波拉病毒，但卻有優先順序之分。我們的預算並非源源不絕，當我們思考這點，你思考需要做什麼才能讓洗手成為日常習慣，需要長期的資金才能改善這個行為。總而言之，那些為公共衛生而戰的人其實要仰賴肥皂公司才能推廣用肥皂洗手。我們有夥伴，像是美國國際開發總署 (USAID)、全球用肥皂洗手公私合作組織 (PPPHW)、倫敦衛生及熱帶醫學院、國際培幼會 (Plan)、水支援 (WaterAid)，這些團體都相信三贏的夥伴關係。能創造公部門的勝利，因為我們幫助公部門達成目標。能創造私部門的勝利，因為我們能建立新世代，未來人人都洗手。最重要的是能創造最弱勢民眾的勝利。10 月 15 日當天我們會慶祝「全球洗手日」。學校、社區和我們在公部門的朋友，以及在私部門的朋友，沒錯，那天即使是我們的競爭對手都會與我們一起慶祝世界上最重要的公共衛生介入計畫。真正需要且私部門同樣能做出改變的，就是提供這個重要且有創意的點子來達到宣傳效果。看看「幫孩子活到五歲」活動，我們拍了很棒的影片，把用肥皂洗手的訊息推廣給每一個人，用和人密切相關的方式。至今已經超過三千萬次點閱了。大多數的討論還在線上進行中，我勸你花五分鐘看看那些影片。 我來自馬利，是世界上數一數二的窮國。我生長的家庭每天晚餐話題都繞著社會正義。我在歐洲最好的學校學公共衛生。我想我大概是唯一一位女性在國內有這麼高的衛生學歷，也是唯一一位研究用肥皂洗手的博士。（笑聲）（掌聲） 九年前，我決定有成功的公共衛生職業，我就能實現最大的影響，販賣、推廣世界上最好的公共衛生發明：肥皂。現在我們推動世界上最大的洗手計畫，運用各種公共衛生指標。我們已推廣超過 1 億 8300 萬人，遍及 16 個國家。我和團隊的目標是在 2020 年達到 10 億人。過去四年來經濟成長了一倍，同時肥皂用量增加的地方，孩童死亡率也減少了。也許有些人會覺得刺耳，經濟成長和拯救人命居然會出現在同一個句子裡，但就是因為經濟成長讓我們能繼續做更多。沒有經濟成長、不談這件事，我們就不能達成必要的改變。 上個星期我和團隊花時間探訪許多母親，她們都有同樣的經歷：嬰兒夭折。我是母親，我無法想像還有什麼比這件事更讓人痛心。她來自緬甸，臉上有最美麗的笑容，我想只要還有機會，生命就會給你這個笑容。這是她兒子明友，排行老二。她有個女兒，三週大的時候過世了，我們知道大多數死亡的孩童其實出生一個月內就過世了，我們知道如果提供肥皂給每一位熟練的助產士，如果他們在碰小孩之前就使用肥皂，我們就能減少、改變那些統計數字。這激勵了我，激勵我繼續投入這項任務，並了解我能提供她所需的工具，如此一來，她就能做世界上最美的工作：為新生兒哺乳。下次你考慮要送什麼禮物給新手媽媽和她的家人時，別忘了把目光放遠，送她肥皂。那是公共衛生界中最美的發明。 我希望你加入我們，讓洗手成為你日常生活的一部分，我們日常生活的一部分，幫助更多像明友的小孩活過五歲生日。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
