Talk	en	zh-tw
nancy_lublin_texting_that_saves_lives	"To most of you, this is a device to buy, sell, play games, watch videos. I think it might be a lifeline. I think actually it might be able to save more lives than penicillin. Texting: I know I say texting and a lot of you think sexting, a lot of you think about the lewd photos that you see — hopefully not your kids sending to somebody else — or trying to translate the abbreviations LOL, LMAO, HMU. I can help you with those later. But the parents in the room know that texting is actually the best way to communicate with your kids. It might be the only way to communicate with your kids. (Laughter) The average teenager sends 3,339 text messages a month, unless she's a girl, then it's closer to 4,000. And the secret is she opens every single one. Texting has a 100 percent open rate. Now the parents are really alarmed. It's a 100 percent open rate even if she doesn't respond to you when you ask her when she's coming home for dinner. I promise she read that text. And this isn't some suburban iPhone-using teen phenomenon. Texting actually overindexes for minority and urban youth. I know this because at DoSomething.org, which is the largest organization for teenagers and social change in America, about six months ago we pivoted and started focusing on text messaging. We're now texting out to about 200,000 kids a week about doing our campaigns to make their schools more green or to work on homeless issues and things like that. We're finding it 11 times more powerful than email. We've also found an unintended consequence. We've been getting text messages back like these. ""I don't want to go to school today. The boys call me faggot."" ""I was cutting, my parents found out, and so I stopped. But I just started again an hour ago."" Or, ""He won't stop raping me. He told me not to tell anyone. It's my dad. Are you there?"" That last one's an actual text message that we received. And yeah, we're there. I will not forget the day we got that text message. And so it was that day that we decided we needed to build a crisis text hotline. Because this isn't what we do. We do social change. Kids are just sending us these text messages because texting is so familiar and comfortable to them and there's nowhere else to turn that they're sending them to us. So think about it, a text hotline; it's pretty powerful. It's fast, it's pretty private. No one hears you in a stall, you're just texting quietly. It's real time. We can help millions of teens with counseling and referrals. That's great. But the thing that really makes this awesome is the data. Because I'm not really comfortable just helping that girl with counseling and referrals. I want to prevent this shit from happening. So think about a cop. There's something in New York City. The police did it. It used to be just guess work, police work. And then they started crime mapping. And so they started following and watching petty thefts, summonses, all kinds of things — charting the future essentially. And they found things like, when you see crystal meth on the street, if you add police presence, you can curb the otherwise inevitable spate of assaults and robberies that would happen. In fact, the year after the NYPD put CompStat in place, the murder rate fell 60 percent. So think about the data from a crisis text line. There is no census on bullying and dating abuse and eating disorders and cutting and rape — no census. Maybe there's some studies, some longitudinal studies, that cost lots of money and took lots of time. Or maybe there's some anecdotal evidence. Imagine having real time data on every one of those issues. You could inform legislation. You could inform school policy. You could say to a principal, ""You're having a problem every Thursday at three o'clock. What's going on in your school?"" You could see the immediate impact of legislation or a hateful speech that somebody gives in a school assembly and see what happens as a result. This is really, to me, the power of texting and the power of data. Because while people are talking about data, making it possible for Facebook to mine my friend from the third grade, or Target to know when it's time for me to buy more diapers, or some dude to build a better baseball team, I'm actually really excited about the power of data and the power of texting to help that kid go to school, to help that girl stop cutting in the bathroom and absolutely to help that girl whose father's raping her. Thank you. (Applause)"	"在座各位都有這樣一個裝置你可以用它進行買賣、玩遊戲看視頻在我看來 它是一條生命線我認為它可能比盘尼西林拯救更多的生命 發短訊：我知道在座很多人會聯想到性短訊很多人會想到 一些你看到別人發的猥褻照片我希望那個人不是你的孩子或者你會想解讀一些縮寫字像 LOL, LMAO, HMU 等我等一下可以告訴你它們的意思但是 在座的父母們都知道發短訊其實是與孩子溝通的最佳方法它有可能是與孩子溝通的唯一方法(笑聲)一個青少年平均每月會發3,339條短訊如果是女孩子的話 這數字可以達到 4,000條告訴你們一個秘密 她會打開所有收到的短訊短訊的打開率是 100%現在 家長們就開始憂心了如果打開率是100%的話即使她沒有回覆你叫她回家吃晚餐的短訊我可以保證 她已經看了那條短訊這不是居住在郊外、用 iPhone 的青年現象更傾向發短訊的人是小數群體和居住在城市的年青人這是我從 DoSomething.org 上得知的信息它是一個大型組織為美國年青人和社會變遷而設立6個月之前 我們成為組織的活躍成員並開始把焦點放在短訊發送上現在 我們每週向200,000名年輕人發短訊告訴他們 我們正在爭取讓他們的學校更環保或者我們正在跟進 無家者問題等的事情我們發現短訊的影響力比電郵強大11 倍我們也收到一個出乎意料的結果我們收到一些像這樣的回覆"" 我今天不想上學，男同學都說我是同性戀。"""" 我父母發現我在割手，所以我停止了。但在一個小時之前 我又在割手了。""或者是, ""他不可能會停止強姦我，他不讓我告訴別人。他是我爸爸。 你收到嗎?""我們真的收到最後那條短訊對的 我們收到了我不會忘記收到那條短訊的那一天從那天 我們決定我們需要建立一條危機短訊熱線因為這不是我們本來想做的我們本來的工作是關於社會變遷年青人會發這些短訊給我們是因為他們很習慣用這種方式表達自己同時 他們也沒有傾訴的對象所以他們才會發短訊給我們所以 試想想 短訊熱線可以多強大它很快 又可以保護私隱沒有人可以偷聽你 你可以靜靜地發短訊它還是即時的資訊我們可以幫助上百萬在接受心理咨詢在轉介中的年青人那實在太好了但是更重要的其實是那些數據因為我不僅想幫助那女孩讓她得到適當的心理咨詢或轉介我想阻止這發生的一切想一想這樣的受害在紐約市發生的時候警察以往是用猜的方式去完成任務去做犯罪映射他們會跟縱、觀察一些小偷、被傳喚出庭的人等作為未來工作的指南他們得出以下總結當你在街上看到冰毒如果你報警的話你可以阻止本來不可避免的強姦或搶劫事實上,今年在紐約市警察局使用 CompStat 系統後謀殺率降低了60%所以 想一想我們在危機短訊熱線得到的數據現在我們沒有關於欺凌和約會暴力和飲食失調、割手和強姦沒有相關的統計數據可能有一些相關研究, 一些縱觀的研究這些研究花費了很多的金錢和時間可能也有一些傳聞想一想 擁有這些即時數據各領域的實時數據你可以告知立法當局你可以告知校警你可以告訴校長：""在每個星期四的3點，你的學校都會發生甚麼事。你的學校是怎麼了?""你馬上可以看到 這對立法當局的影響或在學校集會上有人發表令人討厭的演講可以看到結果這對於我來說是短訊和數據的力量因為當人們在談論資料可以在臉書上幫我找回三年級的同學或讓Target知道我甚麼時候需要買多一點尿布或者讓人們建立更強的棒球隊我真的非常希望能 用數據和短訊的力量幫助那個年青人 使他有勇氣去上學幫助那個女孩 使她不再在浴室割手和幫助那個被父親強姦的女孩謝謝(掌聲)"
