Talk	en	zh-tw
naomi_oreskes_why_we_should_believe_in_science	"Every day we face issues like climate change or the safety of vaccines where we have to answer questions whose answers rely heavily on scientific information. Scientists tell us that the world is warming. Scientists tell us that vaccines are safe. But how do we know if they are right? Why should be believe the science? The fact is, many of us actually don't believe the science. Public opinion polls consistently show that significant proportions of the American people don't believe the climate is warming due to human activities, don't think that there is evolution by natural selection, and aren't persuaded by the safety of vaccines. So why should we believe the science? Well, scientists don't like talking about  science as a matter of belief. In fact, they would contrast science with faith, and they would say belief is the domain of faith. And faith is a separate thing apart and distinct from science. Indeed they would say religion is based on faith or maybe the calculus of Pascal's wager. Blaise Pascal was a 17th-century mathematician who tried to bring scientific reasoning to the question of whether or not he should believe in God, and his wager went like this: Well, if God doesn't exist but I decide to believe in him nothing much is really lost. Maybe a few hours on Sunday. (Laughter) But if he does exist and I don't believe in him, then I'm in deep trouble. And so Pascal said, we'd better believe in God. Or as one of my college professors said, ""He clutched for the handrail of faith."" He made that leap of faith leaving science and rationalism behind. Now the fact is though, for most of us, most scientific claims are a leap of faith. We can't really judge scientific claims for ourselves in most cases. And indeed this is actually true for most scientists as well outside of their own specialties. So if you think about it, a geologist can't tell you whether a vaccine is safe. Most chemists are not experts in evolutionary theory. A physicist cannot tell you, despite the claims of some of them, whether or not tobacco causes cancer. So, if even scientists themselves have to make a leap of faith outside their own fields, then why do they accept the claims of other scientists? Why do they believe each other's claims? And should we believe those claims? So what I'd like to argue is yes, we should, but not for the reason that most of us think. Most of us were taught in school that the reason we should believe in science is because of the scientific method. We were taught that scientists follow a method and that this method guarantees the truth of their claims. The method that most of us were taught in school, we can call it the textbook method, is the hypothetical deductive method. According to the standard model, the textbook model, scientists develop hypotheses, they deduce the consequences of those hypotheses, and then they go out into the world and they say, ""Okay, well are those consequences true?"" Can we observe them taking place in the natural world? And if they are true, then the scientists say, ""Great, we know the hypothesis is correct."" So there are many famous examples in the history of science of scientists doing exactly this. One of the most famous examples comes from the work of Albert Einstein. When Einstein developed the theory of general relativity, one of the consequences of his theory was that space-time wasn't just an empty void but that it actually had a fabric. And that that fabric was bent in the presence of massive objects like the sun. So if this theory were true then it meant that light as it passed the sun should actually be bent around it. That was a pretty startling prediction and it took a few years before scientists were able to test it but they did test it in 1919, and lo and behold it turned out to be true. Starlight actually does bend as it travels around the sun. This was a huge confirmation of the theory. It was considered proof of the truth of this radical new idea, and it was written up in many newspapers around the globe. Now, sometimes this theory or this model is referred to as the deductive-nomological model, mainly because academics like  to make things complicated. But also because in the ideal case, it's about laws. So nomological means having to do with laws. And in the ideal case, the hypothesis isn't just an idea: ideally, it is a law of nature. Why does it matter that it is a law of nature? Because if it is a law, it can't be broken. If it's a law then it will always be true in all times and all places no matter what the circumstances are. And all of you know of at least one example of a famous law: Einstein's famous equation, E=MC2, which tells us what the relationship is between energy and mass. And that relationship is true no matter what. Now, it turns out, though, that there  are several problems with this model. The main problem is that it's wrong. It's just not true. (Laughter) And I'm going to talk about three reasons why it's wrong. So the first reason is a logical reason. It's the problem of the fallacy of affirming the consequent. So that's another fancy, academic way of saying that false theories can make true predictions. So just because the prediction comes true doesn't actually logically prove that the theory is correct. And I have a good example of that too,  again from the history of science. This is a picture of the Ptolemaic universe with the Earth at the center of the universe and the sun and the planets going around it. The Ptolemaic model was believed by many very smart people for many centuries. Well, why? Well the answer is because it made  lots of predictions that came true. The Ptolemaic system enabled astronomers to make accurate predictions of the motions of the planet, in fact more accurate predictions at first than the Copernican theory which we now would say is true. So that's one problem with the textbook model. A second problem is a practical problem, and it's the problem of auxiliary hypotheses. Auxiliary hypotheses are assumptions that scientists are making that they may or may not even be aware that they're making. So an important example of this comes from the Copernican model, which ultimately replaced the Ptolemaic system. So when Nicolaus Copernicus said, actually the Earth is not the center of the universe, the sun is the center of the solar system, the Earth moves around the sun. Scientists said, well okay, Nicolaus, if that's true we ought to be able to detect the motion of the Earth around the sun. And so this slide here illustrates a concept known as stellar parallax. And astronomers said, if the Earth is moving and we look at a prominent star, let's say, Sirius — well I know I'm in Manhattan so you guys can't see the stars, but imagine you're out in the country,  imagine you chose that rural life — and we look at a star in December, we see that star against the backdrop of distant stars. If we now make the same observation six months later when the Earth has moved to this position in June, we look at that same star and we  see it against a different backdrop. That difference, that angular difference, is the stellar parallax. So this is a prediction that the Copernican model makes. Astronomers looked for the stellar parallax and they found nothing, nothing at all. And many people argued that this proved  that the Copernican model was false. So what happened? Well, in hindsight we can say  that astronomers were making two auxiliary hypotheses, both of which we would now say were incorrect. The first was an assumption  about the size of the Earth's orbit. Astronomers were assuming  that the Earth's orbit was large relative to the distance to the stars. Today we would draw the picture more like this, this comes from NASA, and you see the Earth's orbit is actually quite small. In fact, it's actually much smaller even than shown here. The stellar parallax therefore, is very small and actually very hard to detect. And that leads to the second reason why the prediction didn't work, because scientists were also assuming that the telescopes they had were sensitive enough to detect the parallax. And that turned out not to be true. It wasn't until the 19th century that scientists were able to detect the stellar parallax. So, there's a third problem as well. The third problem is simply a factual problem, that a lot of science doesn't fit the textbook model. A lot of science isn't deductive at all, it's actually inductive. And by that we mean that scientists don't necessarily start with theories and hypotheses, often they just start with observations of stuff going on in the world. And the most famous example of that is one of the most famous scientists who ever lived, Charles Darwin. When Darwin went out as a young  man on the voyage of the Beagle, he didn't have a hypothesis, he didn't have a theory. He just knew that he wanted to have a career as a scientist and he started to collect data. Mainly he knew that he hated medicine because the sight of blood made him sick so he had to have an alternative career path. So he started collecting data. And he collected many things,  including his famous finches. When he collected these finches, he threw them in a bag and he had no idea what they meant. Many years later back in London, Darwin looked at his data again and began to develop an explanation, and that explanation was the theory of natural selection. Besides inductive science, scientists also often participate in modeling. One of the things scientists want to do in life is to explain the causes of things. And how do we do that? Well, one way you can do it is to build a model that tests an idea. So this is a picture of Henry Cadell, who was a Scottish geologist in the 19th century. You can tell he's Scottish because he's wearing a deerstalker cap and Wellington boots. (Laughter) And Cadell wanted to answer the question, how are mountains formed? And one of the things he had observed is that if you look at mountains like the Appalachians, you often find that the rocks in them are folded, and they're folded in a particular way, which suggested to him that they were actually being compressed from the side. And this idea would later play a major role in discussions of continental drift. So he built this model, this crazy contraption with levers and wood, and here's his wheelbarrow, buckets, a big sledgehammer. I don't know why he's got the Wellington boots. Maybe it's going to rain. And he created this physical model in order to demonstrate that you could, in fact, create patterns in rocks, or at least, in this case, in mud, that looked a lot like mountains if you compressed them from the side. So it was an argument about the cause of mountains. Nowadays, most scientists prefer to work inside, so they don't build physical models so much as to make computer simulations. But a computer simulation is a kind of a model. It's a model that's made with mathematics, and like the physical models of the 19th century, it's very important for thinking about causes. So one of the big questions to do with climate change, we have tremendous amounts of evidence that the Earth is warming up. This slide here, the black line shows the measurements that scientists have taken for the last 150 years showing that the Earth's temperature has steadily increased, and you can see in particular that in the last 50 years there's been this dramatic increase of nearly one degree centigrade, or almost two degrees Fahrenheit. So what, though, is driving that change? How can we know what's causing the observed warming? Well, scientists can model it using a computer simulation. So this diagram illustrates a computer simulation that has looked at all the different factors that we know can influence the Earth's climate, so sulfate particles from air pollution, volcanic dust from volcanic eruptions, changes in solar radiation, and, of course, greenhouse gases. And they asked the question, what set of variables put into a model will reproduce what we actually see in real life? So here is the real life in black. Here's the model in this light gray, and the answer is a model that includes, it's the answer E on that SAT, all of the above. The only way you can reproduce the observed temperature measurements is with all of these things put together, including greenhouse gases, and in particular you can see that the increase in greenhouse gases tracks this very dramatic increase in temperature over the last 50 years. And so this is why climate scientists say it's not just that we know that climate change is happening, we know that greenhouse gases are a major part of the reason why. So now because there all these different things that scientists do, the philosopher Paul Feyerabend famously said, ""The only principle in science that doesn't inhibit progress is: anything goes."" Now this quotation has often been taken out of context, because Feyerabend was not actually saying that in science anything goes. What he was saying was, actually the full quotation is, ""If you press me to say what is the method of science, I would have to say: anything goes."" What he was trying to say is that scientists do a lot of different things. Scientists are creative. But then this pushes the question back: If scientists don't use a single method, then how do they decide what's right and what's wrong? And who judges? And the answer is, scientists judge, and they judge by judging evidence. Scientists collect evidence in many different ways, but however they collect it, they have to subject it to scrutiny. And this led the sociologist Robert Merton to focus on this question of how scientists scrutinize data and evidence, and he said they do it in a way he called ""organized skepticism."" And by that he meant it's organized because they do it collectively, they do it as a group, and skepticism, because they do it from a position of distrust. That is to say, the burden of proof is on the person with a novel claim. And in this sense, science is intrinsically conservative. It's quite hard to persuade the scientific community to say, ""Yes, we know something, this is true."" So despite the popularity of the concept of paradigm shifts, what we find is that actually, really major changes in scientific thinking are relatively rare in the history of science. So finally that brings us to one more idea: If scientists judge evidence collectively, this has led historians to focus on the question of consensus, and to say that at the end of the day, what science is, what scientific knowledge is, is the consensus of the scientific experts who through this process of organized scrutiny, collective scrutiny, have judged the evidence and come to a conclusion about it, either yea or nay. So we can think of scientific knowledge as a consensus of experts. We can also think of science as being a kind of a jury, except it's a very special kind of jury. It's not a jury of your peers, it's a jury of geeks. It's a jury of men and women with Ph.D.s, and unlike a conventional jury, which has only two choices, guilty or not guilty, the scientific jury actually has a number of choices. Scientists can say yes, something's true. Scientists can say no, it's false. Or, they can say, well it might be true but we need to work more and collect more evidence. Or, they can say it might be true, but we don't know how to answer the question and we're going to put it aside and maybe we'll come back to it later. That's what scientists call ""intractable."" But this leads us to one final problem: If science is what scientists say it is, then isn't that just an appeal to authority? And weren't we all taught in school that the appeal to authority is a logical fallacy? Well, here's the paradox of modern science, the paradox of the conclusion I think historians and philosophers and sociologists have come to, that actually science is the appeal to authority, but it's not the authority of the individual, no matter how smart that individual is, like Plato or Socrates or Einstein. It's the authority of the collective community. You can think of it is a kind of wisdom of the crowd, but a very special kind of crowd. Science does appeal to authority, but it's not based on any individual, no matter how smart that individual may be. It's based on the collective wisdom, the collective knowledge, the collective work, of all of the scientists who have worked on a particular problem. Scientists have a kind of culture of collective distrust, this ""show me"" culture, illustrated by this nice woman here showing her colleagues her evidence. Of course, these people don't really look like scientists, because they're much too happy. (Laughter) Okay, so that brings me to my final point. Most of us get up in the morning. Most of us trust our cars. Well, see, now I'm thinking, I'm in Manhattan, this is a bad analogy, but most Americans who don't live in Manhattan get up in the morning and get in their cars and turn on that ignition, and their cars work, and they work incredibly well. The modern automobile hardly ever breaks down. So why is that? Why do cars work so well? It's not because of the genius of Henry Ford or Karl Benz or even Elon Musk. It's because the modern automobile is the product of more than 100 years of work by hundreds and thousands and tens of thousands of people. The modern automobile is the product of the collected work and wisdom and experience of every man and woman who has ever worked on a car, and the reliability of the technology is the result of that accumulated effort. We benefit not just from the genius of Benz and Ford and Musk but from the collective intelligence and hard work of all of the people who have worked on the modern car. And the same is true of science, only science is even older. Our basis for trust in science is actually the same as our basis in trust in technology, and the same as our basis for trust in anything, namely, experience. But it shouldn't be blind trust any more than we would have blind trust in anything. Our trust in science, like science itself, should be based on evidence, and that means that scientists have to become better communicators. They have to explain to us not just what they know but how they know it, and it means that we have to become better listeners. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	每天我們要面對各種各樣的問題，例如氣候變遷、疫苗安全等，我們必須回答這些問題，而答案很大程度上依賴於科學資訊，科學家告訴我們世界正在暖化，科學家告訴我們疫苗是安全，但我們怎麼知道他們是對的？為什麼我們要相信科學？事實上，很多人並不相信科學。民意調查一直顯示，大部分美國民眾並不相信氣候暖化是人為活動造成的，也不認為有物競天擇這回事，也不相信疫苗的安全。 那麼，為何我們應該相信科學？科學家不喜歡把科學說成是需要「相信」的事。說實話，他們認為「科學」和「信仰」是相斥的，他們說「教義」只屬於「信仰」的一部份，而「信仰」和「科學」兩者本是風馬牛不相及。他們甚至說宗教以信仰為基礎，或者像帕斯卡的賭注：布萊茲．帕斯卡是17 世紀的數學家，他要把科學辯證帶入討論應否相信上帝的存在。他打的賭是這樣：嗯，如果上帝不存在，但我決定相信上帝的存在，那我真的沒太大損失，（可能損失了禮拜天的幾小時。）（笑聲）然而，如果上帝真的存在，而我沒有相信上帝，那我就大遭殃啦。所以帕斯卡說，我們最好還是相信上帝吧。或者，如同我其中一個的大學教授說：「他抓著信念不放，視為天降神跡，把科學或理性思考遺忘掉。」 現在事實卻是，對很多人來說，很多科學主張也沒有實驗基礎。我們也很難判斷某些科學主張，甚至很多科學家也未能判斷超出其專長領域的主張。所以你想一想，地質學家就無法告訴你疫苗到底是否安全。大多數化學家也不是演化理論的專家。一個物理學家也無法跟你說，儘管某些人有自己的主見，吸煙到底會否致癌。所以，即使科學家在超出自己的專長領域外，都只相信天降神跡，那樣他們為什麼接受其他科學家所提出的科學主張呢？那樣他們為什麼接受其他人的主張呢？那樣我們應該相信他們的主張嗎？ 所以我認為，是的，我們應該相信，但不是大部分人想的原因。大部分人在學校接受教育，我們應該相信科學，原因是其科學方法。老師說科學家遵循一套方法，而這套方法確保理論正確。大部份人在學校裡學習的那套方法，我們稱之為課本上的方法，就是「假說演繹法」。根據標準的模式，教科書教材的模式，科學家們提出假說，推論那些假說的結果，然後他們到現實世界去驗證，「好，結果是否如我所料？」我們可否在自然界中觀察到這樣的結果嗎？如果可以，科學家就會說，「太棒了，我們知道假說是正確的。」 科學史上有很多著名的例子，科學家就是這樣做的。其中一個有名的例子來自愛因斯坦的理論。當愛因斯坦提出廣義相對論時，他的其中一個論點是，空間和時間不是空洞，沒有實體的，事實上其結構為纖維交織似的，而且在質量很大的物體面前，例如太陽，時空就會被扭曲。那麼假設這個論點是正確的，意味着當光線穿越太陽時，就會圍繞著太陽而扭曲。那是一個很驚人的預測，而科學家要到好多年後，才能夠去檢驗理論。他們在1919年進行測試，真怪呀，結果證明是真的：星光行經太陽時，確實發生彎曲。這對相對論是很重大的確證，它被認為對這個全新想法提供真實證明，全球各大報社也爭相報導。全球各大報社也爭相報導。 現在，這個理論或模式有時候被稱作「演繹－律則」模式，主要的原因是學術界喜歡把事情搞得很複雜，而且在理想情況下，這跟「定律」有關。「律則」就必定跟「定律」有關。在理想的情況下，假說不僅是一種想法：這是自然界的定律。自然界定律為什麼重要？因為定律不能被打破。如果它是定律，就永遠都是正確的，無論何時何地，在任何情況下都是正確的。你們所有人都知道至少一個著名定律的例子：愛因斯坦的著名方程式：E 等於 MC 平方。告訴我們能量與質量的關係，告訴我們能量與質量的關係，而那個關係無論如何都是正確的。 但是，我們後來發現一些有關這個模式的問題，主要的問題是，它是錯的。這並不是正確的。（笑聲）我要舉出三個原因，說明它為何是錯。第一個是邏輯上的原因，這是有關肯定後件謬誤的問題，(affirming the consequent)那是另一個異想天開的、學術上的說法，就是錯誤的理論也可得到正確的預測結果，所以即使預測正確，邏輯上也未能證明理論是正確的。我可以再舉一個科學史上很好的例子，這是一張托勒密宇宙的圖片，地球處於宇宙的中心，而太陽及其他行星圍繞著地球運轉。很多聰明人都相信托勒密宇宙模型，已有幾個世紀了。嗯，為什麼呢？答案是，因為很多預測結果的確符合現實狀況。天文學家根據托勒密系統，精確預測行星運動，事實上較哥白尼的理論都要精準很多，但是我們現在都知道哥白尼的理論才正確。這就是教科書教材模式的問題。第二個問題是實務問題，跟輔助性假說有關。輔助性假說是科學家提出假設，有時候他們甚至不會發現自己提出了假設，一個重要的例子就來自哥白尼的模型，而最終它取代托勒密系統，當尼古拉．哥白尼說，地球實際上不是宇宙的中心，太陽才是太陽系的中心，地球是繞著太陽運轉。科學家們說：好啊，尼古拉，如果你說的是真的，那我們應該感覺得到地球在移動，繞著太陽跑。這張投影片展示出恆星視差的概念。天文學家說：如果地球正在移動，那麼我們觀察一顆明亮的星星時，譬如說天狼星，嗯，我知道在曼哈頓，你們是看不到星星的，但想像一下，你們到鄉村，選擇過著農村生活，我們在十二月的時候看星，就看到遙遠恆星的背景襯托着天狼星，如果我們六個月後再做同樣的觀測，在6月時，當地球已轉到這個位置，我們在不同的背景下，看著同一顆星，那種差異，那種角度的差異，　　　就是恆星視差（斗轉星移）。所以這是根據哥白尼理論所作的預測，天文學家觀測尋找恆星視差，但就沒有觀測到，沒有發現。因此很多人認為這證明哥白尼的模型是錯的。 所以這是怎麼回事？嗯，事後看來，我們可以說，天文學家作出兩個輔助性假說，我們現在都知道兩者並不正確。第一個是有關「地球運行軌道」大小的假設。天文學家假設地球的軌道遠大於跟恆星的距離。今天我們畫出來的圖比較像這樣：這幅來自美國太空總署，你們可以看到地球的軌道事實上相當地小，其實較這張圖畫還要小，因此，恆星視差非常小，很難偵測到的。 這也帶到第二個原因，為什麼沒有觀測到，因為科學家也誤以為當時的望遠鏡夠精密，足以偵測到視差。而最後發現這是錯的。直到19世紀，科學家才有辦法偵測到恆星視差。科學家才有辦法偵測到恆星視差。 所以，還有第三個問題。第三個問題簡而言之就是事實問題。有很多科學不符合教科書上的方法論，很多科學根本不是推理演繹出來的，而是歸納出來的。意思是說，科學家不一定要先建立理論假設，他們常常只是從觀察出發，觀察世上萬物的運行。最有名的例子查爾斯．達爾文，也是世上最有名的科學家之一，最有名的例子查爾斯．達爾文，也是世上最有名的科學家之一，達爾文年輕的時候參與小獵犬號的航行，他沒有假設，沒有理論，只知道要成為一位科學家，他開始蒐集資料。主要是他知道他不喜歡醫學，看到血會感到不舒服，因此不得不選擇另一條路。所以他開始收集資料。他收集很多東西，包括他最出名的雀鳥，他把收集的雀鳥丟到包裡，他也不知道這有什麼意義。多年以後他回到倫敦，達爾文再把資料拿出來看，然後開始建立學說，就是說明物競天擇的理論。 除了歸納法，科學家們也常建立模型。科學家一生中的志業之一，就是解釋事物的緣由。我們要怎麼做呢？嗯，一種方法是建立一個模型，然後做測試， 這是一張亨利．卡道爾的照片，他是 19 世紀的蘇格蘭地理學家。可以看出他是蘇格蘭人，因為他頭戴獵鹿帽，腳穿威靈頓長靴。〔觀眾笑〕卡道爾想要找出答案，山巒是如何形成的？其中他觀察到一件事，若看看像是「阿帕拉契」這座山脈，你們常常會看到裡面的岩石有很多褶皺，而且是一種特定的摺法，讓他覺得它們像是從一邊被擠壓而形成的褶皺。這個想法在後來的陸塊漂移學說中，扮演了重要角色。這個想法在後來的陸塊漂移學說中，扮演了重要角色。所以他建了個模型，瘋狂的玩意兒，用撬棒、木頭、這是他的單輪手推車、一些桶子、一把大錘，不知為何他還穿著威靈頓靴...也許那時快下雨了。然後他就弄出了個實物模型，來演示你真的可以模擬出岩石的紋理，在這邊至少用了泥巴去模擬，近似於山脈的狀況，在這邊至少用了泥巴去模擬，近似於山脈的狀況，如果你從旁擠壓它的話。所以這就是山脈成因的論據。 這些年，大部分的科學家比較喜歡在室內工作，所以他們比較少建實物模型，而是用電腦模擬。但電腦模擬也是一種模型，以數學運算建立模型，如同 19 世紀的實物模型，這是找出原因的重要手段。因此，要回答關於「氣候變遷」這樣的大哉問，我們有海量的證據，證明地球一直在暖化。這張投影片中，黑色曲線表示科學家在過去150年以來的量測數據。科學家在過去150年以來的量測數據。顯示地球的溫度，正穩定上升中。你們也可以看到特別是最近 50 年，則是大幅度的溫昇，幾乎是攝氏 1 度，或換算約為華氏 2 度。 那所以，是什麼因素造成變遷？我們要如何了解暖化的成因？我們要如何了解暖化的成因？嗯，科學家可以建立模型，利用電腦模擬運算。這張圖顯示了電腦模擬結果，加入了所有我們想得到的可能會影響地球氣候的變因。有來自空氣污染的硫酸鹽微粒，來自火山噴發的火山灰、太陽輻射變化、當然，還有溫室效應氣體。而他們要問的是，要引用哪些變數，放入此模型，可以模擬重現我們看到的現實情形？所以這裡的黑線表示現實狀況，而淺灰色的則表示模擬結果。答案是，學測試題常有的選項「E」：以上皆是。學測試題常有的選項「E」：以上皆是。要達到重現的唯一方法，最接近實際量測溫度數據的，要達到重現的唯一方法，最接近實際量測溫度數據的，就是把所有因素全都加入，包括溫室氣體排放，而你們可以特別注意到，溫室氣體增加的趨勢，而你們可以特別注意到，溫室氣體增加的趨勢，和 50 年來溫度的急遽變化，有非常大的關聯。和 50 年來溫度的急遽變化，有非常大的關聯。這就是為什麼氣候學家會說，我們不只知道氣候正在改變，而且我們確知溫室氣體是最主要的成因。 現在，因為科學家們做各種不同的研究，現在，因為科學家們做各種不同的研究，哲學家保羅．費耶阿本德有句名言：「科學持續進步的唯一原則，就是想方設法，無所不用其極。」這段話老是被斷章取義，因為費耶阿本德其實不是在說，科學無所不用其極。他要說的是，其實他的原句是：「如果非要問我什麼是科學方法？我只能說：想方設法，無所不用其極。」他想說的是，科學家會想方設法，科學家要很有創意。 但這又回到原來的問題：如果科學沒有單一的方法，那他們怎麼決定何者正確，何者錯誤？由誰來裁決呢？答案是，由科學家判斷，他們以「證據」評判。科學家用各種手法收集證據，但不管用什麼方法收集，他們都要接受審查。這就帶到社會學家羅伯特．莫頓所說的，問題應集中在科學家們是如何審視資料及證據，問題應集中在科學家們是如何審視資料及證據，他說，他們用的方式，稱作「系統性懷疑」。他說，他們用的方式，稱作「系統性懷疑」。他意思是說，有系統，因為他們採用系統組織方式，他們有集體性；因為他們採用系統組織方式，他們有集體性；而懷疑，是由於他們以不輕信為出發點。而懷疑，是由於他們以不輕信為出發點。也就是說，提出新主張的人必須負責證明他的理論。也就是說，提出新主張的人必須負責證明他的理論。此即意謂著，科學的本質是保守的。要說服科學界是非常困難的，他們很難輕易說出：「是，我們確信此事為真。」姑且不論大家擁戴「突破性思維」這個概念，姑且不論大家擁戴「典範轉移」這個概念，我們發現事實上，在科學史上，科學的思考模式，也很少有所改變。在科學史上，科學的思考模式，很少有所改變。 所以最後，這又給我們帶來另一個想法，若科學家集體評判證據，這導引歷史學家集中至一件事：共識。這導引歷史學家集中至一件事：共識。到頭來我們說：何謂科學？何謂科學知識？其實就是科學專家們的共識。他們通過組織性的審查過程，集體審核，對證據做出評判，並得出結論，不論贊成、反對皆然。並得出結論，不論贊成、反對皆然。 所以我們可以將科學知識視為一種專家共識。所以我們可以將科學知識視為一種專家共識。我們也可以把科學看作一種陪審制度，儘管這是種很特殊的陪審制度。陪審員不是人人可當，而是由科學宅宅們擔任。陪審員有男有女，全都是博士。和傳統的陪審團有所不同，傳統只有兩種選擇，有罪，或無罪，科學界的陪審團其實有多種選擇。科學家可以說：對，某件事是真的。科學家可以說：不，這件事不正確。或他們也可說：嗯，這可能是對的，可是我們需要再多花些功夫，收集更多證據。或者，他們會說：這可能是對的，但我們不知道如何找出問題的答案，所以我們先把問題放一邊，晚點再回頭來想。科學家們把這叫做「懸而未決」。 而這又把我們帶到最後的問題：如果科學是由科學家們說了算，那這不會被權威者把持嗎？我們在學校不是被教說：服從權威是一種邏輯謬誤嗎？我們在學校不是被教說：服從權威是一種邏輯謬誤嗎？嗯，這是現代科學的弔詭之處。這種弔詭我想就是歷史學家、哲學家，和社會學家們得到的結論，其實科學是由權威者把持的，然而此權威非單一個人，不論單一個人有多聰明，像是柏拉圖、或蘇格拉底，或愛因斯坦，這是整體學界的權威性，你可以把它想成群眾的智慧，但是是很特殊的一群人，科學的確來自權威，但並非基於服從任何個人，不論他有多麼地聰明；它是基於集體智慧，群體的智識，群體的工作，每位科學家一直鑽研的某個特定問題。科學家有一種共通的集體懷疑性，是「眼見為憑」的文化，由這位優秀女性為我們呈現，把證據展示給她的同事看。當然，這些人看起來不太像科學家，因為他們好像太歡樂了...〔觀眾笑〕 好，所以它帶到了我的終點：我們大部分人早上起床，我們大部分人都相信我們的車子，（現在想想，我們身處曼哈頓，這個例子有點爛...）但是大部分的美國人，不住在曼哈頓的那些人，早上醒來，去開車，插上鑰匙發動，車子啟動了，一切非常順利。現代的汽車很少壞掉， 為什麼呢？為什麼車子這麼乖？這不是因為亨利．福特是天才，也不是因為卡爾．賓士或甚至伊隆．馬斯克的天份。這是因為現代的汽車，是發展了超過100年的產品，這是因為現代的汽車，是發展了超過100年的產品，這心血結晶，來自數以百計、成千上萬的人們。這心血結晶，來自數以百計、成千上萬的人們。這樣的現代產品，是集群眾智慧與經驗於一身，每位男性和女性投注心思，在研發汽車，每位男性和女性投注心思，在研發汽車，其所達成的技術可靠度，即是來自於群體累積的成果。我們不僅是受惠於賓士、福特、馬斯克的天份。我們不僅是受惠於賓士、福特、馬斯克的天份。而是群體的智識、嘔心瀝血，每位在現今汽車業界工作過的人都有所貢獻。每位在現今汽車業界工作過的人都有所貢獻。科學也是如此，只是發展的歷史還更長一些。科學也是如此，只是發展的歷史還更長一些。我們對於科學和技術的信任基礎是一樣的，我們對於科學和技術的信任基礎是一樣的，對任何事物的信任也基於相同一件事，亦即：經驗。 然而這不應是盲目的信任，科學之於任何事物皆然。然而這不應是盲目的信任，科學之於任何事物皆然。我們對科學的信任，就如同科學本身，應該要基於證據，這意味著科學家們必須成為更好的溝通者。不僅要向我們說明他們已知的事情，也要說明是如何得知的，而這也表示「我們」必須要成為更好的聽眾。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
