Talk	en	zh-tw
natalie_panek_let_s_clean_up_the_space_junk_orbiting_earth	"Our lives depend on a world we can't see. Think about your week so far. Have you watched TV, used GPS, checked the weather or even ate a meal? These many things that enable our daily lives rely either directly or indirectly on satellites. And while we often take for granted the services that satellites provide us, the satellites themselves deserve our attention as they are leaving a lasting mark on the space they occupy. People around the world rely on satellite infrastructure every day for information, entertainment and to communicate. There's agricultural and environmental monitoring, Internet connectivity, navigation. Satellites even play a role in the operation of our financial and energy markets. But these satellites that we rely on day in and day out have a finite life. They might run out of propellant, they could malfunction, or they may just naturally reach the end of their mission life. At this point, these satellites effectively become space junk, cluttering the orbital environment. So imagine you're driving down the highway on a beautiful, sunny day out running errands. You've got your music cranked, your windows rolled down, with the cool breeze blowing through your hair. Feels nice, right? Everything is going smoothly until suddenly your car stutters and stalls right in the middle of the highway. So now you have no choice but to abandon your car where it is on the highway. Maybe you were lucky enough to be able to move it out of the way and into a shoulder lane so that it's out of the way of other traffic. A couple of hours ago, your car was a useful machine that you relied on in your everyday life. Now, it's a useless hunk of metal taking up space in a valuable transportation network. And imagine international roadways all cluttered with broken down vehicles that are just getting in the way of other traffic. And imagine the debris that would be strewn everywhere if a collision actually happened, thousands of smaller pieces of debris becoming new obstacles. This is the paradigm of the satellite industry. Satellites that are no longer working are often left to deorbit over many, many years, or only moved out of the way as a temporary solution. And there are no international laws in space to enforce us to clean up after ourselves. So the world's first satellite, Sputnik I, was launched in 1957, and in that year, there were only a total of three launch attempts. Decades later and dozens of countries from all around the world have launched thousands of more satellites into orbit, and the frequency of launches is only going to increase in the future, especially if you consider things like the possibility of 900-plus satellite constellations being launched. Now, we send satellites to different orbits depending on what they're needed for. One of the most common places we send satellites is the low Earth orbit, possibly to image the surface of Earth at up to about 2,000 kilometers altitude. Satellites there are naturally buffeted by Earth's atmosphere, so their orbits naturally decay, and they'll eventually burn up, probably within a couple of decades. Another common place we send satellites is the geostationary orbit at about 35,000 kilometers altitude. Satellites there remain in the same place above Earth as the Earth rotates, which enables things like communications or television broadcast, for example. Satellites in high orbits like these could remain there for centuries. And then there's the orbit coined ""the graveyard,"" the ominous junk or disposal orbits, where some satellites are intentionally placed at the end of their life so that they're out of the way of common operational orbits. Of the nearly 7,000 satellites launched since the late 1950s, only about one in seven is currently operational, and in addition to the satellites that are no longer working, there's also hundreds of thousands of marble-sized debris and millions of paint chip-sized debris that are also orbiting around the Earth. Space debris is a major risk to space missions, but also to the satellites that we rely on each and every day. Now, because space debris and junk has become increasingly worrisome, there have been some national and international efforts to develop technical standards to help us limit the generation of additional debris. So for example, there are recommendations for those low-Earth orbiting spacecraft to be made to deorbit in under 25 years, but that's still a really long time, especially if a satellite hasn't been working for years. There's also mandates for those dead geostationary spacecraft to be moved into a graveyard orbit. But neither of these guidelines is binding under international law, and the understanding is that they will be implemented through national mechanisms. These guidelines are also not long-term, they're not proactive, nor do they address the debris that's already up there. They're only in place to limit the future creation of debris. Space junk is no one's responsibility. Now, Mount Everest is actually an interesting comparison of a new approach to how we interact with our environments, as it's often given the dubious honor of being the world's highest garbage dump. Decades after the first conquest of the world's highest peak, tons of rubbish left behind by climbers has started to raise concern, and you may have read in the news that there's speculation that Nepal will crack down on mountaineers with stricter enforcement of penalties and legal obligations. The goal, of course, is to persuade climbers to clean up after themselves, so maybe local not-for-profits will pay climbers who bring down extra waste, or expeditions might organize voluntary cleanup trips. And yet still many climbers feel that independent groups should police themselves. There's no simple or easy answer, and even well-intentioned efforts at conservation often run into problems. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't do everything in our power to protect the environments that we rely and depend on, and like Everest, the remote location and inadequate infrastructure of the orbital environment make waste disposal a challenging problem. But we simply cannot reach new heights and create an even higher garbage dump, one that's out of this world. The reality of space is that if a component on a satellite breaks down, there really are limited opportunities for repairs, and only at great cost. But what if we were smarter about how we designed satellites? What if all satellites, regardless of what country they were built in, had to be standardized in some way for recycling, servicing or active deorbiting? What if there actually were international laws with teeth that enforced end-of-life disposal of satellites instead of moving them out of the way as a temporary solution? Or maybe satellite manufacturers need to be charged a deposit to even launch a satellite into orbit, and that deposit would only be returned if the satellite was disposed of properly or if they cleaned up some quota of debris. Or maybe a satellite needs to have technology on board to help accelerate deorbit. There are some encouraging signs. The UK's TechDemoSat-1, launched in 2014, for example, was designed for end-of-life disposal via a small drag sail. This works for the satellite because it's small, but satellites that are higher or in larger orbits or are larger altogether, like the size of school buses, will require other disposal options. So maybe you get into things like high-powered lasers or tugging using nets or tethers, as crazy as those sound in the short term. And then one really cool possibility is the idea of orbital tow trucks or space mechanics. Imagine if a robotic arm on some sort of space tow truck could fix the broken components on a satellite, making them usable again. Or what if that very same robotic arm could refuel the propellant tank on a spacecraft that relies on chemical propulsion just like you or I would refuel the fuel tanks on our cars? Robotic repair and maintenance could extend the lives of hundreds of satellites orbiting around the Earth. Whatever the disposal or cleanup options we come up with, it's clearly not just a technical problem. There's also complex space laws and politics that we have to sort out. Simply put, we haven't found a way to use space sustainably yet. Exploring, innovating to change the way we live and work are what we as humans do, and in space exploration, we're literally moving beyond the boundaries of Earth. But as we push thresholds in the name of learning and innovation, we must remember that accountability for our environments never goes away. There is without doubt congestion in the low Earth and geostationary orbits, and we cannot keep launching new satellites to replace the ones that have broken down without doing something about them first, just like we would never leave a broken down car in the middle of the highway. Next time you use your phone, check the weather or use your GPS, think about the satellite technologies that make those activities possible. But also think about the very impact that the satellites have on the environment surrounding Earth, and help spread the message that together we must reduce our impact. Earth orbit is breathtakingly beautiful and our gateway to exploration. It's up to us to keep it that way. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們的生活依賴著一個我們看不見的世界。回想一下這一周到目前為止的生活，是否曾看過電視，使用過定位系統，查詢過天氣預報或甚至吃過飯?這些我們日常生活中的事物都直接或間接地依賴著衛星設施。而我們往往認為這些衛星服務是應當的，這些設施更值得我們去注意。因為它們正對它們所在的太空留下持久的影響。 世界各地的人每天都依靠著衛星設施，獲取信息、娛樂和溝通交流。還有農業和環境監測，網際網路連接，導航。衛星甚至在我們的財務和能源市場運作中佔據一席之地。 但是我們每天都依賴著的這些衛星，它們的壽命是有限的。它們可能用完助推燃料，它們可能會出現故障，或者它們可能只是到達了它們的使用壽命。這個時候，這些衛星會成為太空垃圾，雜亂地存在於軌道環境中。 設想一下，一個美好的晴天你開著車在高速路上行駛，你播著音樂，搖下車窗，涼爽的微風在你的髮間吹過。感覺很好，對吧?一切都進行得很順利，直到突然間，在高速公路的正中間你的汽車壞了。現在你別無選擇只能將它留在高速公路上。或許你很幸運的能夠將它移到路肩上，這樣不會阻礙交通，幾個小時之前，你的車還是你每天都依賴的交通工具。現在，它只是一堆無用的金屬，佔用著寶貴的交通網絡的空間。試想一下，在國際公路上亂停著許多故障車輛，這只是阻礙了交通。並設想一下，如果有交通事故發生，碰撞之後四處散落的碎片。成千上萬的小碎片將成為新的障礙。 這是衛星行業的一個範例。那些不再被使用的衛星，往往被長久地遺留在軌道上，或者僅僅被移到一旁作為臨時解決方案。而且，在太空中沒有國際法律來強制我們去清理它們。 世界上第一個衛星史普尼克 1 號於 1957 年發射。那一年，一共只有三次發射嘗試。數十年後，世界上許多國家已經將更多的衛星推送上軌道。在未來，衛星發射只會越來越頻繁，尤其是，如果你考慮到發射 900 多顆衛星成為一個衛星網是可行的。 現在，我們會根據衛星的用途將它們送至不同的軌道。我們發送衛星最常見的地方是近地球軌道，衛星在高度 2000 公里以內拍攝地球表面圖像。在那裡的衛星會受到地球大氣的阻礙，所以他們的運行高度會不斷降低，最終會燃燒殆盡，整個過程大約是幾十年。另一個我們常將衛星發送去的地方是地球靜止軌道，高度大約在 35,000 公里。在那裡衛星會與地球同步運轉，這使得諸如通信或者電視廣播之類的事情成為可能。衛星在那種高軌道可以停留數百年。除此之外，還有被成為「墳場」的軌道，用於堆放太空垃圾的軌道。在那裡會被蓄意放置一些到達使用壽命的衛星，而將軌道空出來讓那些現用的衛星運行。 自 1950 年代末期，已經發射了將近 7000 個衛星，只有七分之一左右仍在運作。並且除了那些不再運作的衛星之外，還有成千上萬的彈珠大小的碎屑，和數百萬的色卡大小的碎片，圍繞著地球旋轉。太空碎片是太空任務的主要威脅，同樣也是我們每日依賴的衛星的主要威脅。 如今，因為太空碎片和垃圾已讓人越來越擔憂，有一些全國和國際性的工作，推出一些技術規範幫助我們限制增加太空碎片。例如，有些建議要求那些近地球軌道航天器被設計成為 25 年內會完成脫軌，但這還是太久，特別是如果一顆衛星已經停止工作多年。對那些死掉的同步衛星，還有一些強制要求，要被移入墳場軌道。但這些限制條件都不具有國際法律的約束力，普遍的理解是它們會通過國家機制實施。這些指導方針也不是長期的，不是積極主動的，它們也沒有處理已經在那裡的碎片。它們只是被用於限制未來產生的碎片。沒有任何人為太空垃圾負責任。 現在，珠穆朗瑪峰是一個有趣的例子，從一種新的視角來比較我們與環境互相的影響，因為它經常被稱為世界上最高的垃圾場。在世界最高峰第一次被征服後的幾十年裡，攀登者留下的眾多垃圾已經開始引起人們的擔憂，你或許已經看過新聞報導，尼泊爾可能對亂丟垃圾的登山者採取嚴厲的罰責及法律約束。這樣做的目的當然是要說服登山者自己清理自己產生的垃圾，因此可能當地非營利組織會向那些從山上帶下額外垃圾的人支付獎勵，或者考察隊將會組織志願者前去清理垃圾。然而儘管如此，許多登山者認為各個團體應該自行監管。對此尚未有一個簡單的解決方案，甚至善意致力於保育，經常都會變成問題。但是這不意味著我們可以無所作為來保護我們依賴和生存的環境，與珠穆朗瑪峰類似，太空軌道太遙遠、建設不完善，使得廢物處理成為了頗具挑戰的問題。但是我們不能隨便就到達一個新高度，然後創建一個更高的垃圾堆積場，在地球之外。 太空中的現實是，如果一個衛星的構件損壞，只有很少的機會能對其進行維修，而且需要花費大量的金錢。可是我們在設計衛星的時候能不能更聰明一些，是否所有的衛星，無論是哪個國家製造的，都必須被標準化設計成為可回收的，提供維修服務的，或者會主動脫離軌道的？是否能有強有力的國際法律，來強制處理那些在使命結束後被拋棄的衛星，而不是採用臨時的辦法將它們移出軌道？又是否衛星生產商需要被徵收一筆垃圾處理費，從而才能發射衛星？而且那筆費用只有在衛星被適當的處理後，或者他們清理掉一些碎片時才能被退還。或者衛星需要配備某些科技，來幫助加速脫軌進程。 現在有一些令人激勵的跡象。比如說，英國 2014 年發射的TechDemoSat-1 衛星，透過一個很小的拖曳帆，在使命結束後會自我處理。這個設計可行是因為這是一個小衛星。但是對於在更高、更大軌道的衛星，或者更遠更大的衛星，比如說像校車那麼大的，則需要其它的處理方式。所以或許你會想到使用高強鐳射光線或者使用網或細繩去拖拉，那些在短期內聽起來盡可能瘋狂的想法。 一個非常可行而炫酷的想法是一輛在太空軌道上運行的拖車或機械裝置。想像如果有個機械手臂裝在一輛類似太空拖車的裝置上，可以修理那些受損壞的衛星，使他們恢復正常。或者那個機械手臂可以給那些借助化學劑推進的太空飛行器加燃料，就像我們給汽車加油一樣。機器人維修和維護，可以延長數百顆繞行地球的衛星的壽命。 無論我們選擇哪種處理或清理方式，很明顯都不僅僅是技術問題。我們還需要理清更加複雜的太空法和政治問題。簡單來說，我們還沒有找到一種可永續使用太空的方法。 不斷的探索、創新來改變我們生活和工作的方式，是我們作為人類的使命。同時在對太空探索，真的已經超出了地球的範圍。然而在我們以學習和創新的名義不斷推進的時候，我們必須牢記我們對環境的責任從未消失。近地軌道或地球靜止軌道上衛星擁擠的狀況是毋庸置疑的，我們不能一味的發射新衛星去取代那些已經報廢的，卻不先對它們採取任何措施。就像我們從來不會將一輛壞車停留在高速公路的中間一樣。下一次當你使用你的手機，查詢天氣預報或者使用 GPS 定位，想一下那些使得這些成為可能的衛星科技。但同時也要想一下衛星對地球周圍環境的影響。請各位幫忙傳播這個信息，我們必須協力減少太空垃圾的影響。 緊鄰地球的軌道無比美麗，也是我們探索太空的門戶。我們有責任保護太空。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
