Talk	en	zh-tw
ngozi_okonjo_iweala_how_africa_can_keep_rising	"The narrative of a rising Africa is being challenged. About 10 years ago, I spoke about an Africa, an Africa of hope and opportunity, an Africa of entrepreneurs, an Africa very different from the Africa that you normally hear about of death, poverty and disease. And that what I spoke about, became part of what is known now as the narrative of the rising Africa. I want to tell you two stories about this rising Africa. The first has to do with Rwanda, a country that has gone through many trials and tribulations. And Rwanda has decided to become the technology hub, or a technology hub on the continent. It's a country with mountainous and hilly terrain, a little bit like here, so it's very difficult to deliver services to people. So what has Rwanda said? In order to save lives, it's going to try using drones to deliver lifesaving drugs, vaccines and blood to people in hard-to-reach places in partnership with a company called Zipline, with UPS, and also with the Gavi, a global vaccine alliance. In doing this, it will save lives. This is part of the type of innovation we want to see in the rising Africa. The second story has to do with something that I'm sure most of you have seen or will remember. Very often, countries in Africa suffer drought and floods, and it's getting more frequent because of climate change effects. When this happens, they normally wait for international appeals to raise money. You see pictures of children with flies on their faces, carcasses of dead animals and so on. Now these countries, 32 countries, came together under the auspices of the African Union and decided to form an organization called the African Risk Capacity. What does it do? It's a weather-based insurance agency, and what these countries do is to pay insurance each year, about 3 million dollars a year of their own resources, so that in the event they have a difficult drought situation or flood, this money will be paid out to them, which they can then use to take care of their populations, instead of waiting for aid to come. The African Risk Capacity last year paid 26 million dollars to Mauritania, Senegal and Niger. This enabled them to take care of 1.3 million people affected by drought. They were able to restore livelihoods, buy fodder for cattle, feed children in school and in short keep the populations home instead of migrating out of the area. So these are the kinds of stories of an Africa ready to take responsibility for itself, and to look for solutions for its own problems. But that narrative is being challenged now because the continent has not been doing well in the last two years. It had been growing at five percent per annum for the last one and a half decades, but this year's forecast was three percent. Why? In an uncertain global environment, commodity prices have fallen. Many of the economies are still commodity driven, and therefore their performance has slipped. And now the issue of Brexit doesn't make it any easier. I never knew that the Brexit could happen and that it could be one of the things that would cause global uncertainty such as we have. So now we've got this situation, and I think it's time to take stock and to say what were the things that the African countries did right? What did they do wrong? How do we build on all of this and learn lessons so that we can keep Africa rising? So let me talk about six things that I think we did right. The first is managing our economies better. The '80s and '90s were the lost decades, when Africa was not doing well, and some of you will remember an ""Economist"" cover that said, ""The Lost Continent."" But in the 2000s, policymakers learned that they needed to manage the macroeconomic environment better, to ensure stability, keep inflation low in single digits, keep their fiscal deficits low, below three percent of GDP, give investors, both domestic and foreign, some stability so they'll have confidence to invest in these economies. So that was number one. Two, debt. In 1994, the debt-to-GDP ratio of African countries was 130 percent, and they didn't have fiscal space. They couldn't use their resources to invest in their development because they were paying debt. There may be some of you in this room who worked to support African countries to get debt relief. So private creditors, multilaterals and bilaterals came together and decided to do the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and give debt relief. So this debt relief in 2005 made the debt-to-GDP ratio fall down to about 30 percent, and there was enough resources to try and reinvest. The third thing was loss-making enterprises. Governments were involved in business which they had no business being in. And they were running businesses, they were making losses. So some of these enterprises were restructured, commercialized, privatized or closed, and they became less of a burden on government. The fourth thing was a very interesting thing. The telecoms revolution came, and African countries jumped on it. In 2000, we had 11 million phone lines. Today, we have about 687 million mobile lines on the continent. And this has enabled us to go, move forward with some mobile technology where Africa is actually leading. In Kenya, the development of mobile money — M-Pesa, which all of you have heard about — it took some time for the world to notice that Africa was ahead in this particular technology. And this mobile money is also providing a platform for access to alternative energy. You know, people who can now pay for solar the same way they pay for cards for their telephone. So this was a very good development, something that went right. We also invested more in education and health, not enough, but there were some improvements. 250 million children were immunized in the last one and a half decades. The other thing was that conflicts decreased. There were many conflicts on the continent. Many of you are aware of that. But they came down, and our leaders even managed to dampen some coups. New types of conflicts have emerged, and I'll refer to those later. So based on all this, there's also some differentiation on the continent that I want you to know about, because even as the doom and gloom is here, there are some countries — Côte d'Ivoire, Kenya, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Senegal are performing relatively well at the moment. But what did we do wrong? Let me mention eight things. You have to have more things wrong than right. (Laughter) So there are eight things we did wrong. The first was that even though we grew, we didn't create enough jobs. We didn't create jobs for our youth. Youth unemployment on the continent is about 15 percent, and underemployment is a serious problem. The second thing that we did is that the quality of growth was not good enough. Even those jobs we created were low-productivity jobs, so we moved people from low-productivity agriculture to low-productivity commerce and working in the informal sector in the urban areas. The third thing is that inequality increased. So we created more billionaires. 50 billionaires worth 96 billion dollars own more wealth than the bottom 75 million people on the continent. Poverty, the proportion of people in poverty — that's the fourth thing — did decrease, but the absolute numbers did not because of population growth. And population growth is something that we don't have enough of a dialogue about on the continent. And I think we will need to get a handle on it, particularly how we educate girls. That is the road to really working on this particular issue. The fifth thing is that we didn't invest enough in infrastructure. We had investment from the Chinese. That helped some countries, but it's not enough. The consumption of electricity in Africa on the continent in Sub-Saharan Africa is equivalent to Spain. The total consumption is equivalent to that of Spain. So many people are living in the dark, and as the President of the African Development Bank said recently, Africa cannot develop in the dark. The other thing we have not done is that our economies retain the same structure that we've had for decades. So even though we've been growing, the structure of the economies has not changed very much. We are still exporting commodities, and exporting commodities is what? It's exporting jobs. Our manufacturing value-added is only 11 percent. We are not creating enough decent manufacturing jobs for our youth, and trade among ourselves is low. Only about 12 percent of our trade is among ourselves. So that's another serious problem. Then governance. Governance is a serious issue. We have weak institutions, and sometimes nonexistent institutions, and I think this gives way for corruption. Corruption is an issue that we have not yet gotten a good enough handle on, and we have to fight tooth and nail, that and increased transparency in the way we manage our economies and the way we manage our finances. We also need to be wary of new conflicts, new types of conflicts, such as we have with Boko Haram in my country, Nigeria, and with Al-Shabaab in Kenya. We need to partner with international partners, developed countries, to fight this together. Otherwise, we create a new reality which is not the type we want for a rising Africa. And finally, the issue of education. Our education systems in many countries are broken. We are not creating the types of skills needed for the future. So we have to find a way to educate better. So those are the things that we are not doing right. Now, where do we go from there? I believe that the way forward is to learn to manage success. Very often, when people succeed or countries succeed, they forget what made them succeed. Learning what you're successful at, managing it and keeping it is vital for us. So all those things I said we did right, we have to learn to do it right again, keep doing it right. Managing the economy while creating stability is vital, getting prices right, and policy consistency. Very often, we are not consistent. One regime goes out, another comes in and they throw away even the functioning policies that were there before. What does this do? It creates uncertainty for people, for households, uncertainties for business. They don't know whether and how to invest. Debt: we must manage the success we had in reducing our debt, but now countries are back to borrowing again, and we see our debt-to-GDP ratio beginning to creep up, and in certain countries, debt is becoming a problem, so we have to avoid that. So managing success. The next thing is focusing with a laser beam on those things we did not do well. First and foremost is infrastructure. Yes, most countries now recognize they have to invest in this, and they are trying to do the best they can to do that. We must. The most important thing is power. You cannot develop in the dark. And then governance and corruption: we have to fight. We have to make our countries transparent. And above all, we have to engage our young people. We have genius in our young people. I see it every day. It's what makes me wake up in the morning and feel ready to go. We have to unleash the genius of our young people, get out of their way, support them to create and innovate and lead the way. And I know that they will lead us in the right direction. And our women, and our girls: we have to recognize that girls and women are a gift. They have strength, and we have to unleash that strength so that they can contribute to the continent. I strongly believe that when we do all of these things, we find that the rising Africa narrative is not a fluke. It's a trend. It's a trend, and if we continue, if we unleash our youth, if we unleash our women, we may step backwards sometimes, we may even step sideways, but the trend is clear. Africa will continue to rise. And I tell you businesspeople in the audience, investment in Africa is not for today, is not for tomorrow, it's not a short-term thing, it's a longer term thing. But if you are not invested in Africa, then you will be missing one of the most important emerging opportunities in the world. Thank you. (Applause) Kelly Stoetzel: So you mentioned corruption in your talk, and you're known, well-known as a strong anticorruption fighter. But that's had consequences. People have fought back, and your mother was kidnapped. How have you been handling this? Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala: It's been very difficult. Thank you for mentioning the issue of the kidnap of my mother. It's a very difficult subject. But what it means is that when you fight corruption, when you touch the pockets of people who are stealing money, they don't just keep quiet. They fight back, and the issue for you is when they try to intimidate you, do you give up, or do you fight on? Do you find a way to stay on and fight back? And the answer that I had with the teams I worked with is we have to fight on. We have to create those institutions. We have to find ways to stop these people from taking away the heritage of the future. And so that's what we did. And even out of government, we continued to make that point. In our countries, nobody, nobody is going to fight corruption for us but us. And therefore, that comes with consequences, and we just have to do the best we can. But I thank you and thank TED for giving us a voice to say to those people, you will not win, and we will not be intimidated. Thank you. (Applause) Kelly Stoetzel: Thank you so much for your great talk and important work. (Applause)"	崛起中的非洲，這個說法正面臨著考驗。 大約10年前，我談到非洲，一個充滿希望和機會的非洲，一個企業家遍佈的非洲，一個與你們通常聽到充斥著死亡、貧窮和疾病，所截然不同的非洲。當時我所講述的內容，成了當今崛起中非洲的故事的一部分。 我想給你們講兩個關於崛起中的非洲的故事。第一個和盧安達有關，一個經歷了許多考驗和苦難的國家。盧安達決定成為科技的樞紐，或者說是成為非洲大陸的科技樞紐。盧安達是一個多山、多丘陵的地方，有一點兒像這裡，所以，要給民眾提供服務特別困難。那麼盧安達說了什麼呢？為了挽救生命，盧安達將使用無人機把救命藥品、疫苗和血液，空運給住在偏遠地區的人們，同時與Zipline公司，UPS快遞，和Gavi全球疫苗聯盟合作，藉此挽救生命。這是我們想要在崛起中的非洲，所見到的一種創新形式。 第二個故事，我確信你們大多數人都見過或記得的事。非洲國家經常遭遇旱災和水災，而且因為氣候變化的影響，它們發生的頻率越來越高。當災害發生時，它們通常等待國際呼籲來籌錢。你們見過蒼蠅在孩子臉上的照片，動物屍體的照片等。現在這32個國家，在非洲聯盟的幫助下，團結在一起，並且成立一個叫「非洲風險承保能量」的組織。這個組織是做什麼的呢？它是一個以天氣風險為根據的保險機構，這些國家要做的就是每年支付保險費，每年各自支付大約300萬美元，當它們遇到嚴重的水、旱災時，即可獲得理賠。它們可以用這筆錢來照顧人民，而不是等待救援。「非洲風險承保能量」組織，去年支付了2,600萬美元給茅利塔尼亞、塞內加爾和尼日。幫助了受旱災影響的130萬人。使他們可以重建生計，給牛買飼料，養活上學的孩子，總之，讓人們能夠留守家園，而非迫遷他方。 這些就是關於已經可以為自己負責，並為自己的問題尋求解決辦法的非洲故事。但是，那種說法現在面臨考驗。因為，非洲大陸在過去的兩年裡並沒有出色的表現。雖然在過去的15年裡，它的經濟是以每年5%在增長。但是，今年的預測只有3%。為什麼呢？在不穩定的全球環境下，大宗商品價格下跌。很多經濟體仍然是靠大宗商品驅動的，所以它們的表現變差。現在「英國脫歐」的問題，沒有讓事情變得更輕鬆。我從不知道「英國脫歐」真的會發生，也不知道這會成為引起全球不穩定的事件之一。正如我們一樣。 身處在這樣的環境中，我認為是該做全面分析的時候了，並談談哪些是非洲國家做對了的事情?哪些是做錯了的？我們如何吸取成功的經驗並記取失敗的教訓，讓非洲繼續地崛起呢？ 那麼讓我來說說，我認為我們做對了的六件事。第一件是我們把經濟管理得更好。80年代和90年代是迷失的年代，當時非洲的狀況並不好，你們有些人會想起《經濟學人》的封面寫著《失落的大陸》。但是在21世紀的時候，政策制定者意識到他們需要把宏觀經濟環境管理得更好，以確保社會經濟的安定；將通貨膨脹率維持在個位數的低點；保持較低的財政赤字，低於國內生產毛額的3%以下；提供國內、外的投資者，穩定的投資環境，使他們有信心來投資這些經濟體。這就是第一件。 第二件，債務。1994年，非洲國家債務占國內生產毛額的比例達到130%，它們沒有財政空間。它們不能用自有的資源來投資所需的發展，因為它們要還債。在座的一些人，可能曾為支持非洲國家得到債務免除而努力過。私人債權人、多邊和雙邊債權人，共聚一起決定執行「重債窮國倡議」，給予非洲債務免除。因此，2005年的債務免除，使債務占國內生產毛額的比例降到30％左右，讓這些國家有足夠的資源來嘗試與再投資。 第三件，虧損的企業。政府參與了與它們無關的生意。它們經營生意，造成了虧損。這些企業，有些經由重組、商業化、私有化或者是關閉，而減輕了政府的負擔。 第四件事，是一件很有趣的事。電信革命到來，非洲國家參與其中。2000年，我們有1,100萬條電話線。現在，在非洲我們有6億8,700萬條行動電話線。這使我們可以在一些非洲已領先的電信科技上，持續向前邁進與發展。在肯亞，行動支付的發展 －M-Pesa，你們都聽過的 －經過一段時間，世界才注意到非洲在這項科技上已經領先。這個行動支付也為了使用替代能源提供了一個平台。要知道，人們現在可以用支付電話費的方式，來支付太陽能的費用。所以這是一個非常好的發展，朝正軌發展的好事。 我們也在教育和醫療保健上投資了更多，雖然還不夠，但是有進步了些。2億5,000萬兒童在過去的15年內接種了疫苗。 另一件事是衝突減少了。非洲有很多衝突。你們很多人都知道。但是衝突減弱了，我們的領袖甚至能設法抑制政變。新形式的衝突出現了，我稍後會提及。 基於上述，我也想讓你們了解，非洲大陸上的一些分歧與差異。因為儘管前景看似不樂觀，一些國家，如 : 象牙海岸、肯亞、衣索比亞、坦尚尼亞和塞內加爾，目前發展相對較好。 但是，我們做錯了什麼呢？請讓我提及八件事情。你做錯的事情一定比做對的事情還多。 （笑聲） 我們有八件事情做錯了。第一件是儘管我們經濟成長，但是，我們沒有創造足夠的工作，我們沒有為年輕人創造就業機會。非洲大陸青年的失業率大概是15%，而且失業是一個嚴重的問題。 第二件錯事是經濟發展的品質不夠好。就連那些我們創造的工作，也是低生產力的工作，我們只是把勞動力從低生產力的農業轉移到低生產力的商業，並讓他們在城市的非正式部門工作。 第三件事是貧富不均的差距擴大了。我們創造了更多的億萬富翁。50位身價960億美元的億萬富翁，擁有的財富多過非洲底層的7,500萬人。 貧困，貧困人口的比例 －這是第四件事 － 的確減少了，但是因為人口增長，貧困人口的絕對人數並無減少。人口增長，在非洲是一個尚未充分獲得關注與討論的議題。我認為我們需要解決此問題，尤其是要教育女孩們。那才是真正解決這個問題的方式。 第五件事是我們在基礎建設上，沒有投入足夠的資金。我們有來自中國的投資。那幫助了一些國家，但是遠遠不夠。撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲國家，其用電量相當於西班牙的用電量。這麼多國家的用電量加總，才等於一個西班牙的總用電量。所以很多人生活在黑暗中，正如非洲開發銀行總裁最近所說，非洲不能在黑暗中發展。 另一件我們沒做的事情，是我們的經濟結構，依舊維持著數十年以前的構架。所以即使我們的經濟成長，但經濟結構並沒有很大的改變。我們依然出口大宗商品，出口大宗商品意味著什麼？意味著出口了工作機會。我們製造業只增值了11%。我們沒有為年輕人創造像樣的製造業工作，我們之間的貿易量很小，在我們國家間進行的貿易只佔12%。所以那是另一個嚴重的問題。 然後是管理。管理是一個嚴重的問題。我們的制度很脆弱，有時候制度根本就不存在，我認為這讓貪腐滋生。貪腐是我們至今未能得到有效控制的問題，我們必須抗爭到底，增加我們管理經濟的透明度，管理金融財務的透明度。 我們也需要警惕新的衝突，新形式的衝突，比如在我的國家奈及利亞境內，有博科聖地的恐攻衝突，在肯亞境內有青年黨的恐攻衝突。我們需要和國際夥伴、已開發國家合作，共同對抗新衝突。否則，我們會製造一個我們不想讓崛起中的非洲，所面臨的新現實情勢。 最後，是教育的問題。我們許多國家的教育體系出了問題。我們沒有創造因應未來所需的技能。所以，我們必須找到優化教育的方式。那些就是我們做不對的事情。 現在，我們要何去何從？我相信向前邁進的方法就是要學會管理成功。通常，當人們或國家成功的時候，他們會忘記是什麼讓他們成功。了解你的成功之因，管理它並保持住，對我們來說至關重要。所以，所有我說過的我們做對了的事情，我們必須學會再次做對，一直做對。管理好經濟，創造穩定性很重要，保持價格正確，政策一致。通常，我們的政策沒有連貫一致。舊政權結束，而新政權他們棄置原本就在運作的政策。這個會造成什麼影響？造成人們、家庭的不穩定，造成商業的不穩定。他們不知道是否該投資以及如何投資。 債務：我們必須掌管好我們在減少債務方面的成就，但是，現在國家又開始借貸，我們見到債務占國內生產毛額 的比例開始逐漸上升，而且在一些國家，債務成為一個問題，所以我們必須避免那種情況。所以要管理好成功。 下一件事是專注於那些我們沒做好的事情上。最重要的是基礎建設。是的，大多數國家現在意識到他們必須投資基礎建設，他們正盡最大的努力去完成這件事。我們必須這樣做。最重要的事情是電力。我們不能在黑暗中發展。 然後是管理和貪腐：我們必須戰鬥到底。我們必須讓我們的國家透明化。最重要的是，我們必須讓年輕人參與。我們的年輕人有才能，我每天都可以見到。它就是每天早上讓我醒來並蓄勢待發的動力。我們必須釋放年輕人的才能，讓他們走出自己的路，支持他們創造、革新並引領未來的道路。我知道他們會帶我們朝正確的方向走去。 我們的女性，我們的女孩們：我們必須意識到女孩們和女性是一份禮物。她們有力量，我們必須釋放出那股力量以便她們能夠為這個大陸貢獻一己之力。 我堅信當我們做到所有這些事情後，我們會發現崛起中的非洲的說法，不是一種僥倖，而是一種趨勢。它是一種趨勢，如果我們持續不懈，如果我們解除年輕人的束縛，如果我們解除女性的束縛，我們有時可能會倒退，我們甚至可能走偏。但是趨勢是清晰的。非洲將會繼續崛起。 讓我告訴在座的實業家們，投資非洲不是為了今天，不是為了明天，它不是短期的事情，它是更長遠的事情。但是，如果你們不投資非洲，你們將錯過世界上正出現的最重要的機會之一。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 凱莉 · 史托澤爾：妳在演講中提到貪腐，而且妳是非常著名的反貪腐鬥士。但是，妳承擔了後果。那些人反擊，而且綁架了妳母親。妳是如何處理這種情況的呢？恩戈奇 · 奧孔喬 · 伊維拉：那很困難。謝謝妳提到我母親被綁架的事情。它是一件很難處理的事情。但是它意味著當你反貪腐的時候，當你觸及到貪污者的利益時，他們是不會保持靜默的。他們會反擊，而你面臨的問題就是當他們試圖恐嚇你的時候，你會放棄，還是奮戰到底？你會找到一個堅持並反擊回去的辦法嗎？我與我的工作團隊的答案是我們必須奮戰下去。我們必須設立那些制度。我們必須找到方法，阻止這些人竊取我們大家未來的遺產。那就是我們所做的事。我們繼續強調那一點，甚至在政府以外。在我們的國家，除了我們自己，沒有人，沒有人會為我們反貪腐。所以，那是有代價的，而我們只能盡最大的努力。但是，我要感謝妳、也感謝TED，給我們機會對那些人說，你們贏不了的 !而且我們不怕威脅 ! 謝謝。 （掌聲） 凱莉 · 史托澤爾：非常感謝妳精彩的演講和所承擔的重任。（掌聲）
