Talk	en	zh-tw
nilofer_merchant_got_a_meeting_take_a_walk	"What you're doing, right now, at this very moment, is killing you. More than cars or the Internet or even that little mobile device we keep talking about, the technology you're using the most almost every day is this, your tush. Nowadays people are sitting 9.3 hours a day, which is more than we're sleeping, at 7.7 hours. Sitting is so incredibly prevalent, we don't even question how much we're doing it, and because everyone else is doing it, it doesn't even occur to us that it's not okay. In that way, sitting has become the smoking of our generation. Of course there's health consequences to this, scary ones, besides the waist. Things like breast cancer and colon cancer are directly tied to our lack of physical [activity], Ten percent in fact, on both of those. Six percent for heart disease, seven percent for type 2 diabetes, which is what my father died of. Now, any of those stats should convince each of us to get off our duff more, but if you're anything like me, it won't. What did get me moving was a social interaction. Someone invited me to a meeting, but couldn't manage to fit me in to a regular sort of conference room meeting, and said, ""I have to walk my dogs tomorrow. Could you come then?"" It seemed kind of odd to do, and actually, that first meeting, I remember thinking, ""I have to be the one to ask the next question,"" because I knew I was going to huff and puff during this conversation. And yet, I've taken that idea and made it my own. So instead of going to coffee meetings or fluorescent-lit conference room meetings, I ask people to go on a walking meeting, to the tune of 20 to 30 miles a week. It's changed my life. But before that, what actually happened was, I used to think about it as, you could take care of your health, or you could take care of obligations, and one always came at the cost of the other. So now, several hundred of these walking meetings later, I've learned a few things. First, there's this amazing thing about actually getting out of the box that leads to out-of-the-box thinking. Whether it's nature or the exercise itself, it certainly works. And second, and probably the more reflective one, is just about how much each of us can hold problems in opposition when they're really not that way. And if we're going to solve problems and look at the world really differently, whether it's in governance or business or environmental issues, job creation, maybe we can think about how to reframe those problems as having both things be true. Because it was when that happened with this walk-and-talk idea that things became doable and sustainable and viable. So I started this talk talking about the tush, so I'll end with the bottom line, which is, walk and talk. Walk the talk. You'll be surprised at how fresh air drives fresh thinking, and in the way that you do, you'll bring into your life an entirely new set of ideas. Thank you. (Applause)"	此時此刻你正在做的事會殺了你。更甚於汽車或網路或者甚至於我們不斷談到的那個小小行動裝置，幾乎每天你最常使用的科技，就是這個，你的臀部。現在我們每天坐著9.3小時，相較於睡眠時間7.7小時還要多，「坐」是極度普遍的，我們甚至不曾質疑坐了多久，因為每個人都這樣做，甚至不曾想過這是不行的。那樣，「坐」已成為這個時代的吸菸。 這當然對健康有可怕的影響，還有腰部。乳癌、大腸癌等疾病與缺乏身體活動息息相關，兩者罹患率實際上高達10%，心臟病為6%，第二型糖尿病為7%，這正是家父的死因。現在，那些統計該證明了我們要多起身走動，但是如果你們像我一樣，就辦不到了。 社交活動能驅使我到處走動，有人邀請我參加一場會議，但無法安排我參與常規的室內會議，然後他說：「我明天得遛狗，到時妳能來嗎？」這似乎有點怪，事實上，我記得當初第一次會議時想著，「我要成為下一個問題的發問者，」因為我知道談話進行時，我將會氣喘吁吁。但我借用這種想法，讓它成了我的點子，因此我不會邊喝咖啡邊進行會議，也不會坐在日光燈照明下的會議室進行會議，我會邀請他人邊步行邊進行會議，而每周步行距離長達20至30英哩，就這樣改變了我的生活。 但在此之前實際情況是，我曾經認為你可以照顧好健康，也可以盡忠職守，雖然常常兩者無法兼顧。因此，在歷經數百次步行會議後，我學到了幾件事， 首先，跳脫既有框架是多麼的了不起，又能激發出創新思維。不管大自然還是運動本身，這確實真的有效。 其次，或許這更會讓人深思，關於我們每一位對不同問題持相反意見，當他們真的不是這樣的，如果我們打算解決問題，並以截然不同的眼光看待世事，無論是管理、業務、環境問題、創造就業機會等等，或許我們可以思考一下，如何重新界定那些問題，使兩樣事情變得真實。因為隨著邊走邊談這念頭的出現，使事情變得可行、持續。 我以臀部作為這場演講的開場白，因此以一句話作結束，就是邊走邊談，邊談邊走。你會對新鮮空氣讓人產生創新的思維感到驚訝，藉由此方式，你將為生活帶來嶄新的觀點。 謝謝 （掌聲）
