Talk	en	zh-tw
nirmalya_kumar_india_s_invisible_entrepreneurs	"Over the last two decades, India has become a global hub for software development and offshoring of back office services, as we call it, and what we were interested in finding out was that because of this huge industry that has started over the last two decades in India, offshoring software development and back office services, there's been a flight of white collar jobs from the developed world to India. When this is combined with the loss of manufacturing jobs to China, it has, you know, led to considerable angst amongst the Western populations. In fact, if you look at polls, they show a declining trend for support for free trade in the West. Now, the Western elites, however, have said this fear is misplaced. For example, if you have read — I suspect many of you have done so — read the book by Thomas Friedman called ""The World Is Flat,"" he said, basically, in his book that, you know, this fear for free trade is wrong because it assumes, it's based on a mistaken assumption that everything that can be invented has been invented. In fact, he says, it's innovation that will keep the West ahead of the developing world, with the more sophisticated, innovative tasks being done in the developed world, and the less sophisticated, shall we say, drudge work being done in the developing world. Now, what we were trying to understand was, is this true? Could India become a source, or a global hub, of innovation, just like it's become a global hub for back office services and software development? And for the last four years, my coauthor Phanish Puranam and I spent investigating this topic. Initially, or, you know, as people would say, you know, in fact the more aggressive people who are supporting the Western innovative model, say, ""Where are the Indian Googles, iPods and Viagras, if the Indians are so bloody smart?"" (Laughter) So initially, when we started our research, we went and met several executives, and we asked them, ""What do you think? Will India go from being a favored destination for software services and back office services to a destination for innovation?"" They laughed. They dismissed us. They said, ""You know what? Indians don't do innovation."" The more polite ones said, ""Well, you know, Indians make good software programmers and accountants, but they can't do the creative stuff."" Sometimes, it took a more, took a veneer of sophistication, and people said, ""You know, it's nothing to do with Indians. It's really the rule-based, regimented education system in India that is responsible for killing all creativity."" They said, instead, if you want to see real creativity, go to Silicon Valley, and look at companies like Google, Microsoft, Intel. So we started examining the R&D and innovation labs of Silicon Valley. Well, interestingly, what you find there is, usually you are introduced to the head of the innovation lab or the R&D center as they may call it, and more often than not, it's an Indian. (Laughter) So I immediately said, ""Well, but you could not have been educated in India, right? You must have gotten your education here."" It turned out, in every single case, they came out of the Indian educational system. So we realized that maybe we had the wrong question, and the right question is, really, can Indians based out of India do innovative work? So off we went to India. We made, I think, about a dozen trips to Bangalore, Mumbai, Gurgaon, Delhi, Hyderabad, you name it, to examine what is the level of corporate innovation in these cities. And what we found was, as we progressed in our research, was, that we were asking really the wrong question. When you ask, ""Where are the Indian Googles, iPods and Viagras?"" you are taking a particular perspective on innovation, which is innovation for end users, visible innovation. Instead, innovation, if you remember, some of you may have read the famous economist Schumpeter, he said, ""Innovation is novelty in how value is created and distributed."" It could be new products and services, but it could also be new ways of producing products. It could also be novel ways of organizing firms and industries. Once you take this, there's no reason to restrict innovation, the beneficiaries of innovation, just to end users. When you take this broader conceptualization of innovation, what we found was, India is well represented in innovation, but the innovation that is being done in India is of a form we did not anticipate, and what we did was we called it ""invisible innovation."" And specifically, there are four types of invisible innovation that are coming out of India. The first type of invisible innovation out of India is what we call innovation for business customers, which is led by the multinational corporations, which have — in the last two decades, there have been 750 R&D centers set up in India by multinational companies employing more than 400,000 professionals. Now, when you consider the fact that, historically, the R&D center of a multinational company was always in the headquarters, or in the country of origin of that multinational company, to have 750 R&D centers of multinational corporations in India is truly a remarkable figure. When we went and talked to the people in those innovation centers and asked them what are they working on, they said, ""We are working on global products."" They were not working on localizing global products for India, which is the usual role of a local R&D. They were working on truly global products, and companies like Microsoft, Google, AstraZeneca, General Electric, Philips, have already answered in the affirmative the question that from their Bangalore and Hyderabad R&D centers they are able to produce products and services for the world. But of course, as an end user, you don't see that, because you only see the name of the company, not where it was developed. The other thing we were told then was, ""Yes, but, you know, the kind of work that is coming out of the Indian R&D center cannot be compared to the kind of work that is coming out of the U.S. R&D centers."" So my coauthor Phanish Puranam, who happens to be one of the smartest people I know, said he's going to do a study. What he did was he looked at those companies that had an R&D center in USA and in India, and then he looked at a patent that was filed out of the U.S. and a similar patent filed out of the same company's subsidiary in India, so he's now comparing the patents of R&D centers in the U.S. with R&D centers in India of the same company to find out what is the quality of the patents filed out of the Indian centers and how do they compare with the quality of the patents filed out of the U.S. centers? Interestingly, what he finds is — and by the way, the way we look at the quality of a patent is what we call forward citations: How many times does a future patent reference the older patent? — he finds something very interesting. What we find is that the data says that the number of forward citations of a patent filed out of a U.S. R&D subsidiary is identical to the number of forward citations of a patent filed by an Indian subsidiary of the same company within that company. So within the company, there's no difference in the forward citation rates of their Indian subsidiaries versus their U.S. subsidiaries. So that's the first kind of invisible innovation coming out of India. The second kind of invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call outsourcing innovation to Indian companies, where many companies today are contracting Indian companies to do a major part of their product development work for their global products which are going to be sold to the entire world. For example, in the pharma industry, a lot of the molecules are being developed, but you see a major part of that work is being sent to India. For example, XCL Technologies, they developed two of the mission critical systems for the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner, one to avoid collisions in the sky, and another to allow landing in zero visibility. But of course, when you climb onto the Boeing 787, you are not going to know that this is invisible innovation out of India. The third kind of invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call process innovations, because of an injection of intelligence by Indian firms. Process innovation is different from product innovation. It's about how do you create a new product or develop a new product or manufacture a new product, but not a new product itself? Only in India do millions of young people dream of working in a call center. What happens — You know, it's a dead end job in the West, what high school dropouts do. What happens when you put hundreds of thousands of smart, young, ambitious kids on a call center job? Very quickly, they get bored, and they start innovating, and they start telling the boss how to do this job better, and out of this process innovation comes product innovations, which are then marketed around the world. For example, 24/7 Customer, traditional call center company, used to be a traditional call center company. Today they're developing analytical tools to do predictive modeling so that before you pick up the phone, you can guess or predict what this phone call is about. It's because of an injection of intelligence into a process which was considered dead for a long time in the West. And the last kind of innovation, invisible innovation coming out of India is what we call management innovation. It's not a new product or a new process but a new way to organize work, and the most significant management innovation to come out of India, invented by the Indian offshoring industry is what we call the global delivery model. What the global delivery model allows is, it allows you to take previously geographically core-located tasks, break them up into parts, send them around the world where the expertise and the cost structure exists, and then specify the means for reintegrating them. Without that, you could not have any of the other invisible innovations today. So, what I'm trying to say is, what we are finding in our research is, that if products for end users is the visible tip of the innovation iceberg, India is well represented in the invisible, large, submerged portion of the innovation iceberg. Now, this has, of course, some implications, and so we developed three implications of this research. The first is what we called sinking skill ladder, and now I'm going to go back to where I started my conversation with you, which was about the flight of jobs. Now, of course, when we first, as a multinational company, decide to outsource jobs to India in the R&D, what we are going to do is we are going to outsource the bottom rung of the ladder to India, the least sophisticated jobs, just like Tom Friedman would predict. Now, what happens is, when you outsource the bottom rung of the ladder to India for innovation and for R&D work, at some stage in the very near future you are going to have to confront a problem, which is where does the next step of the ladder people come from within your company? So you have two choices then: Either you bring the people from India into the developed world to take positions in the next step of the ladder — immigration — or you say, there's so many people in the bottom step of the ladder waiting to take the next position in India, why don't we move the next step to India? What we are trying to say is that once you outsource the bottom end of the ladder, you — it's a self-perpetuating act, because of the sinking skill ladder, and the sinking skill ladder is simply the point that you can't be an investment banker without having been an analyst once. You can't be a professor without having been a student. You can't be a consultant without having been a research associate. So, if you outsource the least sophisticated jobs, at some stage, the next step of the ladder has to follow. The second thing we bring up is what we call the browning of the TMT, the top management teams. If the R&D talent is going to be based out of India and China, and the largest growth markets are going to be based out of India and China, you have to confront the problem that your top management of the future is going to have to come out of India and China, because that's where the product leadership is, that's where the important market leadership is. Right? And the last thing we point out in this slide, which is, you know, that to this story, there's one caveat. India has the youngest growing population in the world. This demographic dividend is incredible, but paradoxically, there's also the mirage of mighty labor pools. Indian institutes and educational system, with a few exceptions, are incapable of producing students in the quantity and quality needed to keep this innovation engine going, so companies are finding innovative ways to overcome this, but in the end it does not absolve the government of the responsibility for creating this educational structure. So finally, I want to conclude by showing you the profile of one company, IBM. As many of you know, IBM has always been considered for the last hundred years to be one of the most innovative companies. In fact, if you look at the number of patents filed over history, I think they are in the top or the top two or three companies in the world of all patents filed in the USA as a private company. Here is the profile of employees of IBM over the last decade. In 2003, they had 300,000 employees, or 330,000 employees, out of which, 135,000 were in America, 9,000 were in India. In 2009, they had 400,000 employees, by which time the U.S. employees had moved to 105,000, whereas the Indian employees had gone to 100,000. Well, in 2010, they decided they're not going to reveal this data anymore, so I had to make some estimates based on various sources. Here are my best guesses. Okay? I'm not saying this is the exact number, it's my best guess. It gives you a sense of the trend. There are 433,000 people now at IBM, out of which 98,000 are remaining in the U.S., and 150,000 are in India. So you tell me, is IBM an American company, or an Indian company? (Laughter) Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. (Applause)"	"過去20餘年來，印度成為全球軟體發展中心提供所謂的企業辦公後勤作業服務我們想知道由於這個龐大新型事業過去20餘年間於印度發展軟體開發與企業後勤服務 外包白領階級工作紛紛外移從已開發世界移轉到印度同時製造業的工作機會流失移轉到中國造成西方世界中許多人民感到不安 其實，只要看一下民調西方對自由貿易的支持在消退中然而，西方的菁英們，現在說了這股恐懼沒道理舉例來說，假如你讀過 - 我估計你們應該都讀過湯馬士 佛立德曼 的書""地球是平的""，他說，基本上畏懼自由貿易這股情緒不對因為這來自一個錯誤的假設 -以為人類能發明的東西都已經發明光了但他說，事實上，創新是西方藉以持續領先開發中國家的法寶把複雜的，創新的工作留在已開發世界，把較不複雜的這麼說吧，很無聊的工作送到開發中國家去 我們現在要搞清楚這是真的嗎？印度有沒有可能成為創新的源頭創新的世界中心就好像企業後勤，軟體開發 一樣的世界中心法里胥 普拉南 在過去四年間和我一起研究這個主題 一開始，人們說那些支持西方創新模型的人也是比較激進的那些傢伙 說了「假如印度人真有這麼聰明，那印度版的Google, iPod 與威爾剛在哪兒？」 （笑聲） 所以呢，在我們研究初期我們訪問一些公司的高層人員，我們問他們：印度有機會從一個軟體開發，企業後勤服務移入國變成一個創新的移入國嗎？你認為呢？他們大笑，看都不看我們一眼他們說：""別鬧了，印度人不搞創新""比較客氣的這麼說：""這個啊，你也知道的，印度人是很好的程式設計人，也是好的會計師但他們的創新能力還不到位"" 有時，他們更委婉，說的更含蓄""你了解的，這和印度人本身無關只是印度的按規章行事，定型的教育體系造成了印度人不能發揮創意""他們說，要搞創新，得看真的創新是什麼你去矽谷，看看Google, 微軟，英特爾這些公司是怎麼做的 所以，我們就去研究矽谷公司的研發與創新實驗室有趣的是，當他們向我們介紹各創意實驗室中心，或所謂的研發中心的負責人時他們多半都是印度人 （笑聲） 我們馬上就問了：""你該不會是在印度受教育的吧？你一定是在這裡受教育的""結果呢，每一個都是出身於印度的教育體系所以我們猜我們一定問錯問題了真的問題是，其實，印度人在印度能不能做有關創意的工作？ 我們來到印度，去了班加羅爾,孟買，格爾高，德理，海德拉巴德等你想的到的城市至少12次，去調查這些城市裡各大公司的創新水準我們在研究中發現我們真的問錯問題了假如你問：""印度的Google在哪？印度有iPod嗎？有威爾剛嗎？"" 我們只是碰觸到了創新的一個面向，是為消費者而產生的創新是看的到的創新 反而呢，假如你用知名經濟學家，有人或許看過他的相關報導，熊彼得的看法他說：""創新就是價值創造及分享的新方式""可以是新產品，新的服務但也可以是生產產品的新方法也可以是公司結構，行業組合的新方式 一旦採取這觀點，就沒有理由把創新的受益者侷限於終端消費者身上。一旦以這種較寬廣的視角來看創新我們發現，印度的創新其實多著呢但在印度的創新是一種我們不曾預期的創新形式，所以我們把這些創新稱為：""隱形的創新""更詳細的說，我們把來自印度的創新分成四類型隱形創新 第一種來自印度的隱形創新是為公司客戶的創新由跨國公司引導這些跨國公司在過去二十年間在印度各地設立了750個研發中心雇用了40餘萬的專業人員把跨國公司在過去一般只把研究中心設在公司總部所在國，或是設在他們的母國這件事列入考慮那麼印度今天能有750個跨國公司的研究中心這真是個不可思議的數字 當我們問那些工作於創意中心的人們，問他們做些什麼他們說；""我們正在研發供全球使用的產品""他們不是生產一個全球產品的印度版這通常是本地公司的研發中心的任務他們真的在研發全球級產品像是微軟，谷歌，AstraZeneca, 奇異（GE）費立普等跨國公司，已經用他們在班加羅爾，海德拉巴德等地的研發中心，正面回應這些研發中心的確有生產提供全球產品及服務的能力當然，身為終端消費者，我們看不到這些我們只看到公司的名字而沒看到產品是在哪裡開發的 他們那時還說：""印度的確有創新，但在印度研發中心所做出的產品和美國研發中心所做出的產品不能相提並論。""我的合作者，也剛巧是我認識的最聰明的人之一法里胥 普拉南，聽了後就說他要研究這句話是否正確他把那些在美國和在印度都有研發中心的公司找出來然後檢視同間公司美國子公司與印度子公司所申請的類似專利他比較美國的研發中心與在印度的研發中心各別申請的專利比較這些專利品質是否有高下之分 有趣的是，他發現— 對了，我們比較專利品質用的是'後續引用指標': 一件專利被其後其他專利引用的次數是多少 —他有些發現挺有意思我們發現根據資料顯示美國公司的專利後續引用指標和同公司印度子公司的專利申請的後續引用指標完全一樣就同一間公司的美/印子公司來看所以，在同一間公司印度子公司的專利後續引用指標和美國子公司一樣這就是產生於印度的第一種隱形的創新 第二項源自於印度的隱形的創新我們稱為""把創新外包到印度公司""今天有許多公司把他們全球產品的開發主要的工作外包到印度公司這些產品都將銷售於全球舉例來說，製藥產業開發許多的分子但主要的開發工作全被送到印度例如 XCL Technologies為波音787夢幻機開發的兩項重要的操控系統一個是避免空中碰撞的系統一個是在能見度為零下能安全讓飛機降落的自控系統當然囉，當你爬上一架波音787飛機你不會知道這是來自印度的隱形的創新 第三項源自印度的隱形的創新稱為過程的創新來自於印度的智慧，注入了這些創新之中過程的創新和產品的創新不同過程的創新處理有關 如何創造新產品，開發新產品 和 生產新產品但不處理新產品本身 只有在印度，有數以百萬計的年輕人夢想在電話客服中心工作會發生什麼事呢？ — 你也知道，在西方這可是高中沒畢業的人做的沒前途的工作當你把數十萬聰明年輕，充滿野心的小伙子放在客服電話中心工作，會發生什麼事？他們很快就覺得無聊，然後他們就開始創新他們告訴他們的老闆工作怎樣可以做的更好就是這種過程的創新，也帶動了產品創新這些產品成為行銷全球的產品 舉例來說，24/7　客服公司過去是個很傳統的經營電話客服中心的公司。今天，他們開發出分析工具處理預測型模，在客服人員接起電話前就能猜出或預測出這通來電的目的因為這個過程有來自印度的智慧在西方，早已不存在這樣的智慧了 最後的一種創新，來自印度的隱形創新，是’管理創新’不是新產品，也不是新過程而是組織工作的新方式而來自印度外包行業所發明的最重要的管理創新是”全球服務”全球服務讓你能把以前必須於全球各地的核心工作打散，把打散後分離出來的工作送到世界各地有相關專業及成本結構的地方然後指定重新組織這些工作的方式沒有這項創新，就不可能有今天這些其他的隱形創新 所以，我要說的是，我們的研究發現假如把消費者產品看成是創新冰山的一角印度在那看不到的，大規模的沈潛於水面下的創新冰山基座，佔有主要角色 當然，這也有些不很明顯的現象我們就這項研究整理出三個現象第一個，我們叫”下沈的技能階梯”現在我要回到我開始演講時提到的工作流失當一個跨國公司決定把研發工作外包到印度他們把研發部門最底層的工作，最不複雜的工作，送到印度。這也如 佛立德曼（地球是平的一書作者）所預測發生的事 然後呢，你已經把底層工作送到印度讓他們做研發創新的工作很快很快的你面臨一個問題就是，從公司內要找比最底層高一階的工作人員，該怎麼找？你有兩個選擇：要不，你就把印度低階員工引進到開發國家讓他們往上走一步升上高一階的職位 ──移民──或者，你想，既然在印度有這麼多的最低階人員等著要往上升一階那何不把這比最低一階高一階的工作送到印度去？ 我們要說的是一旦你把最底層的工作外包了這是個自我存續的行為，正因下沈的技能階梯現象而來而這個下沈的技能階梯簡單說就是要成為一個投資銀行家你得先做過分析師才行你沒當過學生就不可能成為教授你沒做過研究助理，就不會成為顧問所以，一旦你外包了最簡單的工作下一段更高階的工作也就跟著外包（流失）了 研究發現的第二個現象是高階管理人員在地化（黃皮膚化）假如研發人員將奠基於印度及中國，而世界上最大的成長市場也奠基於印度和中國你會面臨未來的高階管理階層也必須奠基於印度和中國 這個問題因為相關產品的生產領導階層都在印度及中國市場上的領導階層也在那兒 不是嗎？而這投影片上的最後一點這個故事裡，有一件事得先說清楚印度的年輕人還在不斷增加這項人口紅利，非常好。但很矛盾的這也讓人有印度有龐大勞工的幻象印度的教育機溝及教育體系除了少數例外，無法教育出夠多所需的高素質學生來滿足這創新引擎繼續運作所以企業也努力找尋創新方式以克服這個挑戰但最終，印度政府仍得擔起建構教育結構的責任 所以，最後，我要用一個公司 —IBM的結構來作結大家都知道，IBM在過去百年來一直都被世人認為是最創新的公司之一事實上，就他們公司歷史上所申請的專利來看我想他們不是第一，第二，就是第三這是就所有在美國的私人公司所申請的專利數來看 這是IBM過去10年來員工結構的基本資料2003年，有總數30萬員工或是33萬，其中13萬5千人在美國，而有9千人在印度2009年，總數40萬員工，此時美國員工數降為10萬5千人而印度員工數則上升到10萬人 2010 年時，他們決定不再揭露這項資訊所以我只能估計根據不同來源的資料來估計這是我能猜到最近的數字. 要知道，我可沒說這是個精確的數字，這是我的猜測讓你對趨勢有個概念今天，IBM有43萬3千員工其中9萬8千人在美國15萬人在印度你說吧，IBM還是美國公司嗎？還是間印度公司？（笑聲） 女士先生們，謝謝！（掌聲）"
