Talk	en	zh-tw
norman_spack_how_i_help_transgender_teens_become_who_they_want_to_be	"I want you all to think about the third word that was ever said about you — or, if you were delivering, about the person you were delivering. And you can all mouth it if you want or say it out loud. It was — the first two were, ""It's a ..."" Audience: (Mixed reply) Girl. Boy. (Laughter) Well, it shows you that — I also deal with issues where there's not certainty of whether it's a girl or a boy, so the mixed answer was very appropriate. Of course, now the answer often comes not at birth but at the ultrasound, unless the prospective parents choose to be surprised, like we all were. But I want you to think about what it is that leads to that statement on the third word, because the third word is a description of your sex. And by that I mean, made by a description of your genitals. Now, as a pediatric endocrinologist, I used to be very, very involved and still somewhat am, in cases in which there are mismatches in the externals or between the externals and the internals, and we literally have to figure out what is the description of your sex. But there is nothing that is definable at the time of birth that would define you. And when I talk about definition, I'm talking about your sexual orientation. We don't say, ""It's a ... gay boy!"" ""A lesbian girl!"" Those situations don't really define themselves more until the second decade of life. Nor do they define your gender, which, as different from your anatomic sex, describes your self-concept: Do you see yourself as a male or female, or somewhere in the spectrum in between? That sometimes shows up in the first decade of life, but it can be very confusing for parents, because it is quite normative for children to act in a cross-gender play and way, and, in fact, there are studies that show that even 80 percent of children who act in that fashion will not persist in wanting to be the opposite gender at the time when puberty begins. But, at the time that puberty begins — that means between about age 10 to 12 in girls, 12 to 14 in boys — with breast budding, or two to three times' increase in the gonads in the case of genetic males, by that particular point, the child who says they are in the absolute wrong body is almost certain to be transgender and is extremely unlikely to change those feelings, no matter how anybody tries reparative therapy or any other noxious things. Now, this is relatively rare, so I had relatively little personal experience with this. And my experience was more typical, only because I had an adolescent practice. And I saw someone age 24, genetically female, went through Harvard with three male roommates who knew the whole story, a registrar who always listed his name on course lists as a male name, and came to me after graduating, saying, ""Help me. I know you know a lot of endocrinology."" And indeed, I've treated a lot of people who were born without gonads. This wasn't rocket science. But I made a deal with him: ""I'll treat you if you teach me."" And so he did. And what an education I got from taking care of all the members of his support group. And then I got really confused, because I thought it was relatively easy at that age to just give people the hormones of the gender in which they were affirming. But then my patient married, and he married a woman who had been born as a male, had married as a male, had two children, then went through a transition into female. And now this delightful female was attached to my male patient — in fact, got legally married, because they showed up as a man and a woman, and who knew, right? (Laughter) And I was confused — ""Does this make so-and-so gay? Does this make so-and-so straight?"" I was getting sexual orientation confused with gender identity. And my patient said to me, ""Look, look, look. If you just think of the following, you'll get it right: Sexual orientation is who you go to bed with. Gender identity is who you go to bed as."" (Laughter) And I subsequently learned from the many adults — I took care of about 200 adults — I learned from them that if I didn't peek as to who their partner was in the waiting room, I would never be able to guess better than chance, whether they were gay, straight, bi or asexual in their affirmed gender. In other words, one thing has absolutely nothing to do with the other. And the data show it. Now, as I took care of the 200 adults, I found it extremely painful. These people — many of them — had to give up so much of their lives. Sometimes their parents would reject them, siblings, their own children, and then their divorcing spouse would forbid them from seeing their children. It was so awful, but why did they do it at 40 and 50? Because they felt they had to affirm themselves before they would kill themselves. And indeed, the rate of suicide among untreated transgendered people is among the highest in the world. So, what to do? I was intrigued, in going to a conference in Holland, where they are experts in this, and saw the most remarkable thing. They were treating young adolescents after giving them the most intense psychometric testing of gender, and they were treating them by blocking the puberty that they didn't want. Because basically, kids look about the same, each sex, until they go through puberty, at which point, if you feel you're in the wrong sex, you feel like Pinocchio becoming a donkey. The fantasy that you had that your body will change to be who you want it to be, with puberty, actually is nullified by the puberty you get. And they fall apart. So that's why putting the puberty on hold — why on hold? You can't just give them the opposite hormones that young. They'll end up stunted in growth, and you think you can have a meaningful conversation about the fertility effects of such treatment with a 10-year-old girl, a 12-year-old boy? So this buys time in the diagnostic process for four or five years, so that they can work it out. They can have more and more testing, they can live without feeling their bodies are running away from them. And then, in a program they call 12-16-18, around age 12 is when they give the blocking hormones, and then at age 16, with retesting, they re-qualify to receive — now remember, the blocking hormones are reversible, but when you give the hormones of the opposite sex, you now start spouting breasts and facial hair and voice change, depending on what you're using, and those effects are permanent, or require surgery to remove, or electrolysis, and you can never really affect the voice. So this is serious, and this is 15-, 16-year-old stuff. And then at 18, they're eligible for surgery. And while there's no good surgery for females to males genitally, the male-to-female surgery has fooled gynecologists. That's how good it can be. So I looked at how the patients were doing, and I looked at patients who just looked like everybody else, except they were pubertally delayed. But once they gave them the hormones consistent with the gender they affirm, they look beautiful. They look normal. They had normal heights. You would never be able to pick them out in a crowd. So at that point, I decided I'm going to do this. This is really where the pediatric endocrine realm comes in, because, in fact, if you're going to deal with it in kids aged 10 to 14, that's pediatric endocrinology. So I brought some kids in, and this now became the standard of care, and the [Boston] Children's Hospital was behind it. By my showing them the kids before and after, people who never got treated and people who wished to be treated, and pictures of the Dutch — they came to me and said, ""You've got to do something for these kids."" Well, where were these kids before? They were out there suffering, is where they were. So we started a program in 2007. It became the first program of its kind — but it's really of the Dutch kind — in North America. And since then, we have 160 patients. Did they come from Afghanistan? No. 75 percent of them came from within 150 miles of Boston. And some came from England. Jackie had been abused in the Midlands, in England. She's 12 years old there, she was living as a girl, but she was being beaten up. It was a horror show, they had to homeschool her. And the reason the British were coming was because they would not treat anybody with anything under age 16, which means they were consigning them to an adult body no matter what happened, even if they tested them well. Jackie, on top of it, was, by virtue of skeletal markings, destined to be six feet five. And yet, she had just begun a male puberty. Well, I did something a little bit innovative, because I do know hormones, and that estrogen is much more potent in closing epiphyses, the growth plates, and stopping growth, than testosterone is. So we blocked her testosterone with a blocking hormone, but we added estrogen, not at 16, but at 13. And so here she is at 16, on the left. And on her 16th birthday, she went to Thailand, where they would do a genital plastic surgery. They will do it at 18 now. And she ended up 5'11"". But more than that, she has normal breast size, because by blocking testosterone, every one of our patients has normal breast size if they get to us at the appropriate age, not too late. And on the far right, there she is. She went public — semifinalist in the Miss England competition. The judges debated as to, can they do this? And one of them quipped, I'm told, ""But she has more natural self than half the other contestants."" (Laughter) And some of them have been rearranged a little bit, but it's all her DNA. And she's become a remarkable spokeswoman. And she was offered contracts as a model, at which point she teased me, when she said, ""You know, I might have had a better chance as a model if you'd made me six feet one."" (Laughter) Go figure. So this picture, I think, says it all. It really says it all. These are Nicole and brother Jonas, identical twin boys, and proven to be identical. Nicole had affirmed herself as a girl as early as age three. At age seven, they changed her name, and came to me at the very beginnings of a male puberty. Now you can imagine looking at Jonas at only 14, that male puberty is early in this family, because he looks more like a 16-year-old. But it makes the point all the more, of why you have to be conscious of where the patient is. Nicole is on pubertal blockade in here, and Jonas is just going — biologic control. This is what Nicole would look like if we weren't doing what we were doing. He's got a prominent Adam's apple. He's got angular bones to the face, a mustache, and you can see there's a height difference, because he's gone through a growth spurt that she won't get. Now Nicole is on estrogen. She has a bit of a form to her. This family went to the White House last spring, because of their work in overturning an anti-discrimination — there was a bill that would block the right of transgender people in Maine to use public bathrooms, and it looked like the bill was going to pass, and that would have been a problem, but Nicole went personally to every legislator in Maine and said, ""I can do this. If they see me, they'll understand why I'm no threat in the ladies' room, but I can be threatened in the men's room."" And then they finally got it. So where do we go from here? Well, we still have a ways to go in terms of anti-discrimination. There are only 17 states that have an anti-discrimination law against discrimination in housing, employment, public accommodation — only 17 states, and five of them are in New England. We need less expensive drugs. They cost a fortune. And we need to get this condition out of the DSM. It is as much a psychiatric disease as being gay and lesbian, and that went out the window in 1973, and the whole world changed. And this isn't going to break anybody's budget. This is not that common. But the risks of not doing anything for them not only puts all of them at risk of losing their lives to suicide, but it also says something about whether we are a truly inclusive society. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我希望大家回想一些：別人形容你那句話的第三個詞彙或如果你正在接生一個嬰兒你會如何形容這個孩子？請你把答案默念或者大聲說出來最開頭兩個字是:Ta是...（觀眾：男孩 ... 女孩 ...） 好吧，我這話使你知道我也處理有關到底是男孩或女孩的問題所以我剛剛那樣的措辭十分得體 當然，現在這問題的答案通常是在照射超音波時而非出生時揭曉除非未來的父母們像我們以前那樣把驚喜留到孩子出生那天才知道孩子的性別。 但我希望你們想一想是什麼決定了那第三個詞彙因為它描述你的性別我的意思是它的判斷來自於你的生殖器現在，身為一個小兒科內分泌學家我曾經非常熱衷於研究 （現在也算是）關於種種通過生殖器的判斷會不會出錯外觀上或內外之間的性別不符合而我們實際上必須設法釐清什麼才能客觀描述你的性別在出生那刻我們實在難以定義你的性別。而當我談及定義我是在說你的性別取向我們不說:他是個男同志男孩她是個女同志女孩這些情況還要等到他們10幾歲之後才會出現。性取向也不能定義你的性別而這性別並不等同於解剖學上的而是關乎你的自我意識你認為自己是男性或女性或者在這之間徘徊性別混淆有時發生在孩子10歲以前卻會讓父母十分困惑因為一般而言孩童表現出跨性別的舉止或遊戲方式是很正常的且事實上有許多研究顯示只有八成的兒童在那樣的行為模式下於青春期來臨時不會想再扮演其另外一種性別的角色青春期開始時約當於女孩在10到12歲間男孩在12到14歲間胸部開始發育而在生理男性方面：性腺會成長兩到三倍在那特定時間點聲稱自己處在錯誤身體裡的那些孩子幾乎可以確定將會是跨性別的且改變這樣想法的可能性極小無論任何人對他做修復療法或其他任何有害的事 現在這種情況相對罕見所以我個人經驗也相對較少而我的經歷較典型因為我接觸的是青少年治療我曾見過一個24歲的人就讀哈佛，基因上是女性與三位知道它故事的男性室友度過哈佛時光總在註冊時在選課單上填寫男性姓名並在畢業後尋求我的協助他說:幫我。我知道你是內分泌專家事實上我也的確治癒了很多出生時缺乏性腺的人這不是什麼難如登天的科學但我跟他做了個約定:如果你教導我，我就治療你 他照辦了而我從照顧他的支持小組所有成員中真的學到了很多我當時十分困惑因我當時認為在那種年紀只要為他們施打想成為的性別的賀爾蒙事情就能簡單解決但接下來我的病患結婚了他與一個女人結合而她出生時是生理男性曾以男性的身分結婚，育有兩個孩子之後才轉為女性現在這快樂做自己的女性與我的男性病患結合了實際上是合法結婚了因為他們看起來是一男一女，誰又看得出來呢?你說是吧?(笑聲) 當我正感到困惑:這種情況該說是男同性戀呢?還是正常呢?我正是把性傾向跟性別自我認可搞混了我的病患跟我說:""嘿，聽我說，聽我說。你只要照我說的去想，就會搞懂了。性傾向代表你要同床的對象性別自我認同就是你赴床上時的身分 而我接著從許多成年人身上學到—我曾照顧了約200個成年人—我學到了如果我不看或偷瞄他們在等待室裡的伴侶的話我永遠也沒法猜到—單純用機率都比我準—他們會是男同、直、女同或是無性者換句話說許多事情之間是沒有絕對的關聯的而資料也如此顯示 現在，當我照顧這200個成年人我發現這極度令人傷痛這些人們大多必須放棄自己的人生他們有時會被父母給否定被手足、自己的子女拒絕與他們離婚的配偶也會禁止他們與孩子見面結果如此悲慘他們為何要在四、五十歲時這麼做?因為他們覺得有必要在自殺之前確認自己的性別而的確，未受治療的跨性別者的自殺率在世上是數一數二的高 所以該怎麼辦?我曾被一個研討會給吸引去在荷蘭，那兒有許多專家並見識了許多令人印象深刻的事他們治療的是年輕的青少年先給予最密集的心理測試以鑑定性別再用阻擋他們不想要的青春期來治療他們因為基本上，無論哪個性別孩子們在經歷青少年時期之前看起來都一樣在青少年時期若認為自己性別錯了感覺就像自己是一個正變成驢子的皮諾丘認為自己身體會隨著青春期而改變成為自己想要的樣子的幻想實際上正是被自己所成為的青少年給毀滅而他們也因此崩潰了 所以這就是為什麼要先保留這些青少年—為什麼是保留? 因為你不能在他們這麼年輕的時候就給他們相反性別的賀爾蒙因為那會使他們發育不良而你覺得你和一個十歲女孩或十二歲男孩在這種療程會造成的生殖能力影響上能有什麼有意義的對話嗎這種情況下能夠爭取四到五年的診斷時間所以那些青少年可以有機會克服可以做更多檢測可以好好活著，而不會感到自己的身體正離自己而去而接著，在一個叫做12-16-18的計畫中十二歲左右給予阻擋青春期的賀爾蒙在十六歲時再度測試時他們必須能夠符合現在注意，那些賀爾蒙是可逆的但只要給予相反性別的賀爾蒙他們就能開始長出胸部和臉毛而聲音決定於你要使用什麼且那些效應是永久的或需要手術去移除或電離法且你其實沒法真的改變聲音所以這很嚴肅，而且這跟著你有15、16年久了 接著到18歲，他們能夠接受手術了雖然女轉男的生殖器改變手術無法盡善盡美男轉女的手術卻能騙過婦產科醫師你看看它有多完善所以我觀察病患的改善情況也觀察病患順利融入人群，與別人並無二致除了他們青春期有被延遲之外一旦給了與他們所認同的性別相符合的賀爾蒙他們會變得美麗看起來正常，有著正常的身高你永遠無法在人群中挑出他們來 在那時刻，我決定自己也要往這方面去做這就是我踏入小兒科內分泌領域的時候因為事實上假如你要治療10-12或10-14歲的孩子那就該是小兒科內分泌學啦所以我引入了一些孩子而這現在成了照護的標準有兒童醫院在後面支援展示了這些孩子的前後樣貌後從未受治療的人們想接受治療的人們以及荷蘭人都來找我並說:""你必須為這些孩子做點事""那麼，之前這些孩子們在哪?他們在那兒承受痛苦 所以我們在2007年開始了一個計劃它成為這類型中的第一個計劃—但它其實是之前說的荷蘭方法—不過是在北美洲實行自那時起，我們有了160個病患他們來自阿富汗嗎?不。他們其中有百分之七十五來自距波士頓150哩以內的地方 而有些人來自英格蘭傑琪曾在英格蘭的米德蘭茲被虐那時她十二歲以女孩的身分過活但一直受到毒打那情形慘不忍睹他們得讓她在家自學這些英國人會來求助的原因是在英國任何未滿16歲的人都不能接受治療等同於無論多可怕的事會發生他們都會被交付一個成年的身軀就算已經做過良好的檢驗了在這情況下傑琪雖在骨骼測量中被預測能長到約195公分但她才剛開始進入男性的青春期 我做了件有點創新的事因為我的確了解賀爾蒙知道雌激素在關閉骨端生長板是很有能力的比睪固酮更能停止成長發育所以我們使用了賀爾蒙去阻斷她的睪固酮並在13而非16歲時為她施打雌激素左邊這個就是她16歲時的樣子在她16歲生日，她去了泰國去做生殖器整形手術現在他們是在18歲時做結果她只長了約180公分更棒的是，她擁有正常的胸部大小因為藉由阻斷睪固酮我們的每個病患都能有正常胸部大小只要他們及早在適當年齡來找我們 而在最右邊，也是她她公開參加英國小姐選美進入準決賽評審們互相辯論，他們該怎麼做他們能不能讓她進入決賽據我所知，其中有一人諷刺道:""但她比起其他參賽者的一半擁有更多的自然的自我""(笑聲)雖然其中有些部分被重新排列更動但畢竟全是她的DNA啊接著她成為一個令人印象深刻的發言人並得到模特兒的合約當時她開玩笑說:""你知道的，要是你當時讓我長到185，現在我就有更好的條件可以當模特兒""天知道(笑聲) 所以這張照片，我想，解釋了一切真的解釋了一切他們是尼蔻和她兄弟，瓊納斯同卵雙生男孩經過證實的但尼蔻早在三歲時就確定自己是女的七歲時，他們改了她的名並在剛進入青春期時來找我求診現在你們看著14歲的瓊納斯可以想像在他家族裡青春期很早開始因為他看起來比較像16歲了但這只是再次強調了為什麼你應該更加留意病人的年齡狀況尼蔻當時就做了中斷青春期的措施而瓊納斯只有做生理控制假如我們不做任何事他是尼蔻會變成的樣子他有一個明顯的喉結臉骨有稜有角，有鬍鬚且你也看得出有身高差距因為他經歷了青春期成長而她沒有現在尼蔻正使用雌激素很有成效 這個家族去年春天去了白宮因為他們的成就也就是翻轉了歧視在緬因州曾有一個法條禁止跨性別的人使用公廁這法條一度很有機會通過將造成一大麻煩但尼蔻個人拜訪了緬因州每個議員並說:""我能做到。如果他們看到了我他們就會了解為什麼我在女廁不會構成任何威脅而會在男廁受到威脅。""而他們最終真的懂了 所以我們究竟能到達怎樣的目標呢?我敢說在反歧視方面還有一段很長的路要走只有17個州擁有反歧視法律避免在居住、工作、公共場所可能出現的各種歧視只有17州，其中五個在新英格蘭我們還需要不那麼昂貴的藥藥物是一筆很大的花費且我們需要把這情況帶出《精神疾病診斷與統計手冊》這是精神疾病不單單是男同志或女同志的問題它在1973年就走了樣使得全世界都改變而這不會超出任何人的預算因為這問題沒有那麼普遍但不為他們做任何事的風險不只是讓他們處於自殺的危險中也是考驗著我們這社會究竟是不是真正有包容性 謝謝 (掌聲)"
