Talk	en	zh-tw
oren_yakobovich_hidden_cameras_that_film_injustice_in_the_world_s_most_dangerous_places	"I would like to start with the story of Mary, a woman from an African village. Her first memories are of her family fleeing violent riots orchestrated by  the ruling political party. Her brother was murdered by the state-sponsored militia, and she was raped more than once just because she belonged to the wrong party. One morning, a month before the election, Mary's village was called  to another intimidation meeting. In this meeting, there is a man standing in front of them, telling them, ""We know who you are, we know who you will vote for, and if you're not going to drop the right paper, we're going to take revenge."" But for Mary, this meeting is different. She feels different. This time, she's waiting for this meeting, because this time, she's carrying a small hidden camera in her dress, a camera that nobody else can see. Nobody is allowed to film in these meetings. You risk your life if you do. Mary knows that, but she also knows that the only way to stop them and to protect herself and her community is to expose their intimidation, to make sure they understand somebody is following them, to break the impunity they feel. Mary and her friends were filming for months, undercover, the intimidation of the ruling political party. (Video) [""Filmed with hidden cameras""] Man: We are now going to speak about the upcoming elections. Nothing can stop us  from doing what we want. If we hear you are with [The Opposition] we will not forgive you. [""Militia intimidation rally""] [The Party] can torture you at any time. The youth can beat you. [""Disruption of political meeting""] For those who lie, saying they  are back with [The Party], your time is running out. [""Party youth militia""] Some have died because they rebelled. Some have lost their homes. If you don't work together  with [The Party], you will lead a very bad life. Oren Yakobovich: These images were broadcast all over the world, but more importantly, they have been broadcast back to the community. The perpetrators saw them too. They understood somebody is following them. They got scared. Impunity was broken. Mary and her friends forced the ruling political party not to use violence during the election, and saved hundreds of lives. Mary is just one of hundreds of people that my organization had helped  to document human rights violations using cameras. My background should have led me to a different direction. I was born in Israel to a right-wing family, and as long as I remember myself, I wanted to join the Israeli army to serve my country and prove what I believed  was our right for the whole land. I joined the Israeli army  just after the first intifada, the first Palestinian uprising, and I served in one of the hard-minded, toughest, aggressive infantry units, and I got the biggest gun in my platoon. Quite fast, I became an officer and got soldiers under my command, and as time passed, I started serving in the West Bank, and I saw these images. I didn't like what I saw. It took me a while, but eventually I refused to serve in the West Bank and had to spend time in jail. It was a bit — (Applause) — It was not that bad, I have to say. It was a bit like being in a hotel, but with very shitty food. (Laughter) In jail, I kept thinking  that I need people to know. I need people to understand what the reality in the West Bank looks like. I need them to hear what I heard, I need them to see what I saw, but I also understood, we need  the Palestinians themselves, the people that are suffering, to be able to tell their own stories, not journalists or filmmakers that are coming outside of the situation. I joined a human rights organization, an Israeli human rights  organization called B'Tselem. Together, we analyzed the West Bank and picked 100 families that are living in the most risky places: close to checkpoints, near army bases, side by side with settlers. We gave them cameras and training. Quite fast, we started getting very disturbing images about how the settlers  and the soldiers are abusing them. I would like to share with you two clips from this project. Both of them were broadcast in Israel, and it created a massive debate. And I have to warn you, some of you might  find them quite explicit. The masked men you  will see in the first clips are Jewish settlers. Minutes before the camera was turned on, they approached a Palestinian family that was working their land and told them that they have to leave the land, because this land belongs to the Jewish settlers. The Palestinians refused. Let's see what happened. The masked men that are approaching are Jewish settlers. They are approaching the Palestinian family. This is a demonstration in the West Bank. The guy in green is Palestinian. He will be arrested in a second. Here you see him blindfolded and handcuffed. In a few seconds, he regrets  he came to this demonstration. He's been shot in the foot with a rubber bullet. He is okay. Not all the settlers and the soldiers are acting this way. We're talking about a tiny minority, but they have to be brought to justice. These clips, and others like them, forced the army and the police to start investigations. They've been shown in Israel, of course, and the Israeli public was exposed to them also. This project redefined the struggle for human rights in the occupied territories, and we managed to reduce the number  of violent attacks in the West Bank. The success of this project got me thinking how I can take the same methodology to other places in the world. Now, we tend to believe that today, with all of the technology, the smartphones and the Internet, we are able to see and understand most of what's happening in the world, and people are able to tell their story — but it's only partly true. Still today, with all the technology we have, less than half of the world's population has access to the Internet, and more than three billion people — I'm repeating the number — three billion people are consuming news that is censored by those in power. More or less around the same time, I'm approached by a great guy named Uri Fruchtmann. He's a filmmaker and an activist. We understood we were thinking along the same lines, and we decided to establish Videre, our organization, together. While building the organization in London, we've been traveling undercover to places where a community  was suffering from abuses, where mass atrocities were happening, and there was a lack of reporting. We tried to understand how we can help. There were four things that I learned. The first thing is that we have to engage with communities that are living in rural areas, where violations are happening far from the public eye. We need to partner with them, and we need to understand which images are not making it out there and help them to document them. The second thing I learned is that we have to enable them  to film in a safe way. Security has to be the priority. Where I used to work before, in the West Bank, one can take a camera out, most likely not going to get shot, but in places we wanted to work, just try to pull a phone out, and you're dead — literally dead. This is why we decided to take the operation undercover when necessary, and use mostly hidden cameras. Unfortunately, I can't show you the hidden cameras we're using today — for obvious reasons — but these are cameras we used before. You can buy them off the shelf. Today, we're building  a custom-made hidden camera, like the one that Mary was wearing in her dress to film the intimidation meeting of the ruling political party. It's a camera that nobody can see, that blends into the environment, into the surroundings. Now, filming securities go beyond using hidden cameras. Being secure starts way before the activist is turning the camera on. To keep our partners safe, we work to understand the risk of every location and of every shot before it's happened, building a backup plan if something goes wrong, and making sure  we have everything in place before our operations start. The third thing I learned is the importance of verification. You can have an amazing shot of atrocity, but if you can't verify it, it's worth nothing. Recently, like in the ongoing war  in Syria or the war in Gaza, we've seen images that are staged  or brought from a different conflict. This misinformation destroyed the credibility of the source, and it's harmed the credibility of other reliable and trustworthy sources. We use a variety of ways to make sure we can verify the information and we can trust the material. It starts with vetting the partners, understanding who they are, and working with them very intensively. How do you film a location? You film road signs, you film watches, you film newspapers. We are checking maps, looking at maps, double-checking the information, and looking also at  the metadata of the material. Now, the fourth and the most important thing I learned is how you use images  to create a positive change. To have an effect, the key thing is how you use the material. Today, we're working with hundreds of activists filming undercover. We work with them both to understand  the situation on the ground and which images  are missing to describe it, who are the ones that are  influencing the situation, and when to release the material to advance the struggle. Sometimes, it's about putting it in the media, mostly local ones, to create awareness. Sometimes it's working with decision makers, to change laws. Sometimes, it's working with lawyers to use as evidence in court. But more than often, the most effective way to create a social change is to work within the community. I want to give you one example. Fatuma is part of a network of women that are fighting abuses in Kenya. Women in her community have been harassed constantly on their way to school and on their way to work. They are trying to change  the behavior of the community from inside. In the next clip, Fatuma is taking us with her on her journey to work. Her voice is superimposed on images that she filmed herself using hidden cameras. (Video) Fatuma Chiusiku:  My name is Fatuma Chiusiku. I'm 32 years old, a mother, And Ziwa La Ng'Ombe is my home. Each morning, I ride the mini-bus Number 11. But instead of a peaceful journey to work, each day begins with fear. Come with me now and use my eyes to feel what I feel. As I walk, I think to myself: Will I be touched? Grabbed? Violated by this conductor again? Even the men inside the way they look at me touch my body, rub against me, grab me, and now, as I sit in my seat I only wish my mind was full of thoughts for my day, my dreams, my children at school, but instead I worry about the moment when we will arrive and I will be violated again. OY: Today, there is a new front in the fight for human rights. I used to carry a big gun. Now, I am carrying this. This is a much more powerful and much, much more effective weapon. But we have to use its power wisely. By putting the right images in the right hands at the right time, we can truly create an impact. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	讓我從一個小故事開始。故事的主人公是 Mary，一個來自非洲鄉村的女人。在她的記憶中，從小開始，她全家就在躲避暴亂，顛沛流離，而這一切都拜執政黨所賜。她的哥哥被政府資助的民兵組織所殺，她也被多次強暴，僅僅因為她屬於「不良」黨派。 選舉前一個月的某天早上，Mary 所在的村子裡上演了一場恐嚇拉票集會。會上，一個男子站在他們面前，對大家說：「我們都認識你們，都知道你們會把票投給誰，如果你們不做出『正確』的選擇，我們就會打擊報復。」但對 Mary 來說，這次會議非同尋常，她的感觸也非同尋常。這次，她心懷期待，因為她衣服裡藏了隱形攝影機，一只沒人能覺察的攝影機。這些會議嚴禁攝影，否則你將有生命危險。Mary 明白，但她也知道，只有這樣才能阻止他們的惡行，才能保護她自己以及她的村莊。只有把這種恐嚇行為公之於眾，讓他們知道有人監督，他們不能無法無天。Mary 和她的朋友們已經將執政黨的恐嚇行為秘密地拍攝了幾個月。 （偷拍影片） 男子：「我們要說說接下來的選舉。我們勢不可擋，如果你跟『反對黨』是一夥人，我們絕不原諒。」 （民兵拉票會） 「組織隨時都可以對你們嚴刑拷打，年青人不會放過你。」 （會議被迫中斷） 「那些謊稱要回歸『黨』的人，你們的日子到頭了。」 （青年民兵集會） 「有些反抗的人已經喪命，有些人則無家可歸。如果不和『黨』合作，你們不會有好下場。」這些畫面現已在全世界播出，更重要的是，包括當地的人，包括施暴者自己也看到了。他們發現有人盯著他們。他們會害怕，不敢再無法無天。Mary 和她的朋友們迫使執政黨在選舉中不得使用暴力，拯救了許多人的生命。Mary 是我們機構裡用相機記錄反人權行為的幾百人之一。我的成長背景本應讓我走上不同的方向。我出生在以色列的右翼家庭，自年幼時的印象裡，我一直想要參軍報國，為這片土地伸張正義。在第一次巴勒斯坦起義之後，我加入了以色列軍，服役於一個強硬、堅毅、激進的步兵隊。我也得到了步兵隊裡最大的槍。很快，我成為了一名軍官,手下也有了幾名士兵。再後來，我開始服役於約旦河西岸，目睹了以下這些畫面。我不喜歡眼前的這一切。掙扎了一段時間後，我最終辭去西岸的職責，這也讓我不得已入獄。其實，（掌聲）其實，我必須承認，監獄並沒那麽糟。跟住旅館有點像，只是吃的很爛。（笑） 監禁期間，我一直在思考，我要人們知道，我要人們明白，約旦河西岸的真實面貌。我要他們聽我所聽，見我所見，但我也了解，我們需要巴勒斯坦人民，那些經歷苦難的人們，能講述他們自己的故事，而不是透過置身事外的記者、或是電影人。 我加入了一個人權機構，一個叫做 B'Tselem 的以色列組織。我們一同分析了西岸局勢，挑選出 100 個身處險境的家庭：它們在關卡旁，在軍隊基地邊，緊挨著定居點。我們為這些家庭提供相機和相關培訓。很快的，我們開始收到一些令人不安的畫面：畫面裡，他們受到士兵和移民者的虐待。 我想和大家分享來自這個項目的兩段影片。兩段都在以色列播放過，並引起了巨大的爭議。我必須提醒大家，有些人可能會覺得其中的畫面過於暴力。第一個畫面中的蒙面人是猶太移民者。攝影機開啟的幾分鐘前，他們朝一個正在耕作的巴勒斯坦家庭靠近，告訴他們必須離開，因為這片地是屬於猶太人的定居點。巴勒斯坦人拒絕了。我們看看發生了什麽。（視頻）畫面中的蒙面人是猶太移民。他們正向巴勒斯坦家庭逼近。（視頻）這是約旦河西岸的一場示威。穿綠衣的是巴勒斯坦人。他馬上會被逮捕。你可以看到，他被戴上眼罩和手銬。接下來的幾秒鐘內，他會為自己的到來而後悔。（槍聲）他被橡膠子彈擊中了腳。他並無大礙。 並不是所有外來移民和士兵都如此。我們說的是極小的一部分人，但他們必須面對審判。這些影片，以及其他類似的，迫使軍隊和警方介入調查。當然，它們已經在以色列播出，在以色列的公眾面前曝光。這個項目重新定義了受佔領地區的人權鬥爭，也讓西岸暴力襲擊得以減少。 這個項目的成功讓我思考，我該怎樣採取同樣的方法， 運用到世界其他區域。現在，我們願意相信，在擁有了現有科技、智慧型手機和網路之後，我們能夠目睹和了解世界上所發生的一切，人們能夠講述他們的故事。但這只是片面的。至今為止，在現有的科技下，世界上只有少於半數的人能使用網路，還有超過30億，我再說一次，還有30億人，還在審查制度中獲取資訊。差不多同時，一個叫烏里•菲奇曼的人找到我。他是一名電影人和活躍分子。我們知道我們目標一致，於是決定共同成立 Videre。在倫敦組建團隊的時候，我們秘密走訪了一些飽受摧殘、暴力橫行，又缺乏曝光的地區。我們試著了解該如何提供援助。 我們學到了四點：首先，我們需要與那些遭受暴力卻遠離公眾視線的偏遠村莊建立連繫。我們需要和他們合作，需要了解那些不為人知的故事，並幫助他們記錄下來。 其次，我學到讓他們以安全的方式進行拍攝。安全第一。當我還在西岸工作的時候，你能掏出攝影機，被槍殺的可能性很小，但在我們要開展工作的那些地方，要是敢拿出手機你就死定了，真的死定了。這就是為什麽我決定在必要的時候，盡可能地使用隱形相機進行拍攝。很不幸，我不能給大家展示我們正在使用的偷拍相機，但這些是我們曾經用使過的機型。你可以在店裡買到的。如今，我們定製了一款隱形相機，類似 Mary 身上那樣的，記錄執政黨恐嚇脅迫行徑的相機。這款相機很隱蔽可以很好地融入周遭環境。拍攝安全比使用隱形相機本身更重要。在打開錄影機之前，就得確保拍攝者的安全。為了保障我們合作夥伴的安危，我們致力於了解每個地方、拍攝每張照片的風險，在可能出錯的環節做好應急措施，在展開行動之前，確保一切就緒。 第三，我學到核實的重要性。你能捕捉到驚心動魄的暴行，但如果無法核實真偽，那它沒有任何意義。近來，在敘利亞，又或者加沙持續的戰爭中，我們看到一些擺拍的，或從其他衝突中挪用的影像。這些不實信息不光損害了消息來源的可信度，也影響了其它原本可信可靠的消息源。我們用多種途徑確保消息能夠得到核實，素材值得信任。這都從我們對合作者的審核開始，認識他們，和他們緊密合作。你該如何拍攝一個場景呢？你可以拍拍路標、手錶、報紙。我們正在勘查地圖，核對信息，查詢後備資料。 第四點，也是我學到的最多的就是如何利用這些圖像來創造積極的改變。要想取得效應，關鍵在於如何使用這些材料。 今天，我們同幾百名活躍分子一起進行秘密拍攝。我們一起了解當下處境，看看還缺少哪些畫面，誰能改變局面，什麽時候發佈這些資料，來推進鬥爭。有時，這事關媒體，主要是當地的媒體，來提高人們的覺醒。有時，這事關決策者，要他們去完善法制。有時，要把這些資料當做證據。但更多時候，引發社會變革最有效的方法是從社區內部開展行動。 給大家舉個例子。Fatuma 是肯亞某個婦女反暴力組織中的成員，社區中的女性時常在上學和工作途中遭遇騷擾。她們試圖由內而外改變這種局面。在接下來的影片中，Fatuma 將帶領我們同走她上班的路途。她為這段偷拍的影片做了旁白。 （視頻）我叫 Fatuma Chiusiku， 32歲，是一位母親，家在 Ziwa La Ng'Ombe。每天早上，我乘坐小巴，11號小巴。但上班的車程並非一路安寧，而是充滿恐懼。跟著我，用我的眼睛，體會我的感受。我邊走邊想：我會再次被售票員偷摸嗎？偷抓？冒犯？就連車裡的男人們他們看我的樣子，摸著我的身子，磨蹭我，抓住我，現在，當我坐在座位上，多希望每天心裡惦記著的只是我的生活，我的夢想，我正在上學的孩子，但我卻要擔心公車何時才能到站，而我是否會再次被侵犯。 今天，我們的人權鬥爭已經進入了全新的階段。我曾手持重型槍械。現在，我拿著這個。（偷拍相機）這是個更有力，更有效的武器。但我們要善用它，在對的時間，用對的影像，給對的人。只有這樣，我們才能真的影響世界。 謝謝。（掌聲）謝謝大家。（掌聲）
