Talk	en	zh-tw
paola_antonelli_why_i_brought_pacman_to_moma	"I'm almost like a crazy evangelical. I've always known that the age of design is upon us, almost like a rapture. If the day is sunny, I think, ""Oh, the gods have had a good design day."" Or, I go to a show and I see a beautiful piece by an artist, particularly beautiful, I say he's so good because he clearly looked to design to understand what he needed to do. So I really do believe that design is the highest form of creative expression. That's why I'm talking to you today about the age of design, and the age of design is the age in which design is still cute furniture, is still posters, is still fast cars, what you see at MoMA today. But in truth, what I really would like to explain to the public and to the audiences of MoMA is that the most interesting chairs are the ones that are actually made by a robot, like this beautiful chair by Dirk Vander Kooij, where a robot deposits a toothpaste-like slur of recycled refrigerator parts, as if he were a big candy, and makes a chair out of it. Or good design is digital fonts that we use all the time and that become part of our identity. I want people to understand that design is so much more than cute chairs, that it is first and foremost everything that is around us in our life. And it's interesting how so much of what we're talking about tonight is not simply design but interaction design. And in fact, interaction design is what I've been trying to insert in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art for a few years, starting not very timidly but just pointedly with works, for instance, by Martin Wattenberg — the way a machine plays chess with itself, that you see here, or Lisa Strausfeld and her partners, the Sugar interface for One Laptop Per Child, Toshio Iwai's Tenori-On musical instruments, and Philip Worthington's Shadow Monsters, and John Maeda's Reactive Books, and also Jonathan Harris and Sep Kamvar's I Want You To Want Me. These were some of the first acquisitions that really introduced the idea of interaction design to the public. But more recently, I've been trying really to go even deeper into interaction design with examples that are emotionally really suggestive and that really explain interaction design at a level that is almost undeniable. The Wind Map, by Wattenberg and Fernanda Viégas, I don't know if you've ever seen it — it's really fantastic. It looks at the territory of the United States as if it were a wheat field that is procured by the winds and that is really giving you a pictorial image of what's going on with the winds in the United States. But also, more recently, we started acquiring video games, and that's where all hell broke loose in a really interesting way. (Laughter) There are still people that believe that there's a high and there's a low. And that's really what I find so intriguing about the reactions that we've had to the anointment of video games in the MoMA collection. We've — No, first of all, New York Magazine always gets it. I love them. So we are in the right quadrant. We are in the Highbrow — that's daring, that's courageous — and Brilliant, which is great. Timidly, we've been higher on the diagonal in other situations, but it's okay. It's good. It's good. It's good. (Laughter) But here comes the art critic. Oh, that was fantastic. So the first was Jonathan Jones from The Guardian. ""Sorry, MoMA, video games are not art."" Did I ever say they were art? I was talking about interaction design. Excuse me. ""Exhibiting Pac-Man and Tetris alongside Picasso and Van Gogh"" — They're two floors away. (Laughter) — ""will mean game over for any real understanding of art."" I'm bringing in the end of the world. You know? We were talking about the rapture? It's coming. And Jonathan Jones is making it happen. So the same Guardian rebuts, ""Are video games art: the debate that shouldn't be. Last week, Guardian art critic blah blah suggested that games cannot qualify as art. But is he right? And does it matter?"" Thank you. Does it matter? You know, it's like once again there's this whole problem of design being often misunderstood for art, or the idea that is so diffuse that designers want to aspire to, would like to be called, artists. No. Designers aspire to be really great designers. Thank you very much. And that's more than enough. So my knight in shining armor, John Maeda, without any prompt, came out with this big declaration on why video games belong in the MoMA. And that was fantastic. And I thought that was it. But then there was another wonderfully pretentious article that came out in The New Republic, so pretentious, by Liel Leibovitz, and it said, ""MoMA has mistaken video games for art."" Again. ""The museum is putting Pac-Man alongside Picasso."" Again. ""That misses the point."" Excuse me. You're missing the point. And here, look, the above question is put bluntly: ""Are video games art? No. Video games aren't art because they are quite thoroughly something else: code."" Oh, so Picasso is not art because it's oil paint. Right? So it's so fantastic to see how these feathers that were ruffled, and these reactions, were so vehement. And you know what? The International Cat Video Film Festival didn't have that much of a reaction. (Laughter) I think this was truly fantastic. We were talking about dancing ponies, but I was really jealous of the Walker Arts Center for putting up this festival, because it's very, very wonderful. And there's this Flaubert quote that I love: ""I have always tried to live in an ivory tower, but a tide of shit is beating at its walls, threatening to undermine it."" I consider myself the tide of shit. (Laughter) (Applause) You know, we have to go through that. Even in the 1930s, my colleagues that were trying to put together an abstract art show had all of these works stopped by the customs officers that decided they were not art. So it's happened before, and it will happen in the future, but right now I can tell you that I am so, so proud to be able to call Pac-Man part of the MoMA collection. And the same with, for instance, Tetris, original version, the Soviet one. And you know, the amount of work — yeah, Alexey Pajitnov was working for the Soviet government and that's how he developed Tetris, and Alexey himself reconstructed the whole game and even gave us a simulation of the cathode ray tube that makes it look slightly bombed. And it's fantastic. So behind these acquisitions is an enormous amount of work, because we're still the Museum of Modern Art, so even when we tackle popular culture, we tackle it as a form of interaction design and as something that has to go into the collection at MoMA, therefore, has to be researched. So to get to choosing Eric Chahi's wonderful Another World, amongst others, we put together a panel of experts, and we worked on this acquisition, and it's mostly myself and Kate Carmody and Paul Galloway. We worked on it for a year and a half. So many people helped us — designers of games, you might know Jamin Warren and his collaborators at Kill Screen magazine, and you know, Kevin Slavin. You name it. We bugged everybody, because we knew that we were ignorant. We were not real gamers enough, so we had to really talk to them. And so we decided, of course, to have Sim City 2000, not the other Sim City, that one in particular, so the criteria that we developed along the way were really strong, and were not only criteria of selection. They were also criteria of exhibition and of preservation. That's what makes this acquisition more than a little game or a little joke. It's truly a way to think of how to preserve and show artifacts that will more and more become part of our lives in the future. We live today, as you know very well, not in the digital, not in the physical, but in the kind of minestrone that our mind makes of the two. And that's really where interaction lies, and that's the importance of interaction. And in order to explain interaction, we need to really bring people in and make them realize how interaction is part of their lives. So when I talk about it, I don't talk only about video games, which are in a way the purest form of interaction, unadulterated by any kind of function or finality. I also talk about the MetroCard vending machine, which I consider a masterpiece of interaction. I mean, that interface is beautiful. It looks like a burly MTA guy coming out of the tunnel. You know, with your mitt you can actually paw the MetroCard, and I talk about how bad ATM machines usually are. So I let people understand that it's up to them to know how to judge interaction so as to know when it's good or when it's bad. So when I show The Sims, I try to make people really feel what it meant to have an interaction with The Sims, not only the fun but also the responsibility that came with the Tamagotchi. You know, video games can be truly deep even when they're completely mindless. I'm sure that all of you know Katamari Damacy. It's about rolling a ball and picking up as many objects as you can in a finite amount of time and hopefully you'll be able to make it into a planet. I've never made it into a planet, but that's it. Or, you know, Vib-Ribbon was not distributed here in the United States. It was a PlayStation game, but mostly for Japan. And it was one of the first video games in which you could choose your own music. So you would put into the PlayStation, you would put your own CD, and then the game would change alongside your music. So really fantastic. Not to mention Eve Online. Eve Online is an artificial universe, if you wish, but one of the diplomats that was killed in Benghazi, not Ambassador Stevens, but one of his collaborators, was a really big shot in Eve Online, so here you have a diplomat in the real world that spends his time in Eve Online to kind of test, maybe, all of his ideas about diplomacy and about universe-building, and to the point that the first announcement of the bombing was actually given on Eve Online, and after his death, several parts of the universe were named after him. And I was just recently at the Eve Online fan festival in Reykjavík that was quite amazing. I mean, we're talking about an experience that of course can seem weird to many, but that is very educational. Of course, there are games that are even more educational. Dwarf Fortress is like the holy grail of this kind of massive multiplayer online game, and in fact the two Adams brothers were in Reykjavík, and they were greeted by a standing ovation by all the Eve Online fans. It was amazing to see. And it's a beautiful game. So you start seeing here that the aesthetics that are so important to a museum collection like MoMA's are kept alive also by the selection of these games. And you know, Valve — you know, Portal — is an example of a video game in which you have a certain type of violence which also leads me to talk about one of the biggest issues that we had to discuss when we acquired the video games, what to do with violence. Right? We had to make decisions. At MoMA, interestingly, there's a lot of violence depicted in the art part of the collection, but when I came to MoMA 19 years ago, and as an Italian, I said, ""You know what, we need a Beretta."" And I was told, ""No. No guns in the design collection."" And I was like, ""Why?"" Interestingly, I learned that it's considered that in design and in the design collection, what you see is what you get. So when you see a gun, it's an instrument for killing in the design collection. If it's in the art collection, it might be a critique of the killing instrument. So it's very interesting. But we are acquiring our critical dimension also in design, so maybe one day we'll be able to acquire also the guns. But here, in this particular case, we decided, you know, with Kate and Paul, that we would have no gratuitous violence. So we have Portal because you shoot walls in order to create new spaces. We have Street Fighter II, because martial arts are good. (Laughter) But we don't have GTA because, maybe it's my own reflection, I've never been able to do anything but crashing cars and shooting prostitutes and pimps. So it was not very constructive. (Laughter) So, I'm making fun of it, but we discussed this for so many days. You have no idea. And to this day, I am ambivalent, but when you have instead games like Flow, there's no doubt. It's like, it's about serenity and it's about sublime. It's about experiencing what it means to be a sea creature. Then we have a few also side-scrollers — classical ones. So it's quite a hefty collection. And right now, we started with the first 14, but we have several that are coming up, and the reason why we haven't acquired them yet is because you don't acquire just the game. You acquire the relationship with the company. What we want, what we aspire to, is the code. It's very hard to get, of course. But that's what would enable us to preserve the video games for a really long time, and that's what museums do. They also preserve artifacts for posterity. In absence of the code, because, you know, video game companies are not very forthcoming in some cases, in absence of that, we acquire the relationship with the company. We're going to stay with them forever. They're not going to get rid of us. And one day, we'll get that code. (Laughter) But I want to explain to you the criteria that we chose for interaction design. Aesthetics are really important. And I'm showing you Core War here, which is an early game that takes advantage aesthetically of the limitations of the processor. So the kind of interferences that you see here that look like beautiful barriers in the game are actually a consequence of the processor's limitedness, which is fantastic. So aesthetics is always important. And so is space, the spatial aspect of games. You know, I feel that the best video games are the ones that have really savvy architects that are behind them, and if they're not architects, bona fide trained in architecture, they have that feeling. But the spatial evolution in video games is extremely important. Time. The way we experience time in video games, as in other forms of interaction design, is really quite amazing. It can be real time or it can be the time within the game, as is in Animal Crossing, where seasons follow each other at their own pace. So time, space, aesthetics, and then, most important, behavior. The real core issue of interaction design is behavior. Designers that deal with interaction design behaviors that go to influence the rest of our lives. They're not just limited to our interaction with the screen. In this case, I'm showing you Marble Madness, which is a beautiful game in which the controller is a big sphere that vibrates with you, so you have a sphere that's moving in this landscape, and the sphere, the controller itself, gives you a sense of the movement. In a way, you can see how video games are the purest aspect of interaction design and are very useful to explain what interaction is. We don't want to show the video games with the paraphernalia. No arcade nostalgia. If anything, we want to show the code, and here you see Ben Fry's distellamap of Pac-Man, of the Pac-Man code. So the way we acquired the games is very interesting and very unorthodox. You see them here displayed alongside other examples of design, furniture and other parts, but there's no paraphernalia, no nostalagia, only the screen and a little shelf with the controllers. The controllers are, of course, part of the experience, so you cannot do away with it. But interestingly, this choice was not condemned too vehemently by gamers. I was afraid that they would kill us, and instead they understood, especially when I told them that I was trying to apply the same stratagem that Philip Johnson applied in 1934 when he wanted to make people understand the importance of design, and he took propeller blades and pieces of machinery and in the MoMA galleries he put them on white pedestals against white walls, as if they were Brancusi sculptures. He created this strange distance, this shock, that made people realize how gorgeous formally, and also important functionally, design pieces were. I would like to do the same with video games. By getting rid of the sticky carpets and the cigarette butts and everything else that we might remember from our childhood, I want people to understand that those are important forms of design. And in a way, the video games, the fonts and everything else lead us to make people understand a wider meaning for design. One of my dream acquisitions, which has been on hold for a few years but now will come back on the front burner, is a 747. I would like to acquire it, but without owning it. I don't want it to be at MoMA and possessed by MoMA. I want it to keep flying. So it's an acquisition where MoMA makes an arrangement with an airline and keeps the Boeing 747 flying. And the same with the ""@"" sign that we acquired a few years ago. It was the first example of an acquisition of something that is in the public domain. And what I say to people, it's almost as if a butterfly were flying by and we captured the shadow on the wall, and just we're showing the shadow. So in a way, we're showing a manifestation of something that is truly important and that is part of our identity but that nobody can have. And it's too long to explain the acquisition, but if you want to go on the MoMA blog, there's a long post where I explain why it's such a great example of design. Along the way, I've had to burn a few chairs. You know? I've had to do away with a few concepts of design past. But I see that people are coming along, that the audiences, paradoxically, are much more responsive and much more understanding of this expansion of design than some of my colleagues are. Design is truly everywhere, and design is as important as anything, and I'm so glad that, because of its diversity and because of its centrality to our lives, many more people are coming to it as a profession, as a passion, and as, very simply, part of their own culture. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我就像一個狂熱的福音信徒。一直確信設計時代正朝我們走來，對此，我可是欣喜若狂啊。如果今天天氣晴朗，我就會想，“哇哦，諸神今天可以好好構思一天了。”再如，我去看展覽，看到了一件漂亮的藝術作品，特別漂亮，我會想這藝術家真不錯，毫無疑問他懂得設計時它需要做些什麼。 所以，我深信設計是創造性表達的最高級形式。這也是今天我來給你們講設計時代的原因，在設計時代設計仍跟小巧的家具、海報，跑車有關，正如你們在紐約現代藝術博物館（MoMA）看到的一樣。但實際上，我想向公眾和MoMA的觀眾說明的是那些最有意思的椅子實際上是由機器人製造的，比如德克•范德•科藝（荷蘭設計師）設計的這把椅子機器人把回收的冰箱零部件上的牙膏状的污物储存起来，仿佛那是一大塊糖果，它可藉此製造一把椅子。或說，我們常用的數字字體也是優良的設計作品它們已成為我們身份特征的一部分。我想讓人們明白設計遠不止可愛的椅子，設計是我們生活周圍首要的也是最重要的一切。 而且有趣的是，今天晚上我們講的很多內容不僅僅是設計，更多的是交互設計。事實上，近幾年來我一直嘗試讓交互設計作品也成為MoMA的藏品一開始我就沒有畏怯只是針對作品，比如你們看到的馬丁•瓦騰伯格的作品——一台計算機和它自己下國際象棋另外莉薩•斯特勞斯菲爾德和她的合伙人為“每個孩子一台筆記本”項目設計的“糖果”界面岩井俊雄設計的Tenori-On（一種觸摸屏樂器）菲利普•沃辛頓的怪物影子遊戲約翰•前田的""會聽話的書""喬納森•哈里斯和塞普•卡姆瓦爾的""我想你約我""（一種網上約會應用）這批最早的一些藏品真正把交互設計這個概念呈現給了公眾。 最近，我一直試著用具有情緒性暗示的且能詳細闡釋交互設計的例子去更深入了解交互設計當然，這些例子的闡釋要無可爭辯不知道你們是否看過瓦騰伯格和費爾蘭達•維埃加斯的“風圖”非常神奇在“風圖”里，美國領土看起來就像風在吹過的麥田這張如畫的圖片能讓你清楚地看到美國領土上的風是如何流動的 同時，我們也開始收藏視頻遊戲而且一切都因此亂套了但是非常有意思因為現在仍有人認為藏品應有高低之分對於人們對在 MoMA 收藏視頻遊戲的反應我真得覺得很搞笑首先，《紐約雜誌》對此非常了解我愛死它們了他們把我們排在這個圖的右上部即“高雅”和“非凡”的集合處真是大膽、勇敢又美妙，這很棒。在其他地方我們曾“羞怯的”處於過更高的排位但沒關係，這很好，很好，非常好 但是藝術批評家來了，哇哦~再好不過 第一個是《衛報》的喬納森•瓊斯他說，“不好意思，MoMA視頻遊戲不是藝術”我說他們是藝術了嗎？我講的是交互設計，你先搞清楚“把《吃豆人》和《俄羅斯方塊》與畢加索和梵高的作品一起展覽（它們可隔了兩層樓遠啊！）（笑聲）將意味著藝術真諦的Game Over”天啊，我把世界末日召喚來了我們前面說的「欣喜若狂」時刻就要到了喬納森•瓊斯和《衛報》的反駁 做到了這點“視頻遊戲是藝術嗎：不應有的討論。上週，《衛報》的藝術批評家提出視頻遊戲不夠格成為藝術但他對嗎？而且，這有關係嗎？ ”謝謝您，這有關係嗎？ 知道嗎，這就像又一次設計被曲解為藝術或說設計師渴望被別人稱其為藝術家的觀念再一次散佈開來了那不對設計師渴望成為偉大的設計師非常感謝那已經足夠說明問題了 於是，我的白馬王子約翰·前田突然從黑夜中走來，並鄭重聲明為什麼視頻遊戲應歸入MoMA真是太好了，我想，這就對了嘛 但之後《新共和報》登出了一篇極其做作的文章作者是里爾•萊博維茨上面又一次說到“MoMA誤把視頻遊戲當藝術”“該博物館把《吃豆人》和畢加索的作品放在一起展覽”還說“那樣的做法沒有抓住重點”我沒重點？你才沒抓住重點吧看這裡，上面的問題很明顯的擺在這兒“視頻遊戲是藝術嗎？不，電子遊戲不是藝術因為它們完全是另外一種東西：代碼。 ”嚯~ 所以說畢加索的作品是油畫顏料而不是藝術？ 看到這些整潔的羽毛被弄皺的過程簡直太好了而且批評家們的反應是如此激烈我告訴你們國際貓視頻電影節都沒有過如此大的反響我覺得那種感覺好得不能再好我們說的可是跳舞的小馬呀而且我是真嫉妒沃克藝術中心能承辦這次電影節因為這個電影節真的太精彩了我很喜歡福樓拜的這句話“我總盡力生活在象牙塔中但屎潮不停拍打著圍牆威脅著要壞掉這座塔”我認為自己就是那屎潮 （笑聲）（掌聲） 我們必須經歷這個過程即使在 30 年代，我的同行們曾試著把這些作品放在一起舉行一個抽象藝術展但被海關官員攔了下來因為他們覺得這些作品不是藝術看吧，這樣的事情以前發生過今後還會繼續發生但現在，我很自豪我可以把《吃豆人》稱為 MoMA 的藏品同樣還有原版《俄羅斯方塊》（前蘇聯版）而且這個過程中的工作量……沒錯，阿列克謝•帕基特諾夫當時為前蘇聯政府工作並在那里製作了《俄羅斯方塊》而且他自己還改造了這個遊戲給了我們一個陰極射線管的仿真設計品讓遊戲有遭受過輕微轟炸的感覺太不可思議了 為收藏這些作品，需要驚人的工作量因為本質上我們還是紐約現代藝術博物館所以，面對流行文化時我們要把它當作交互設計來處理把它當做必須要收藏在 MoMA 的東西因此必須要仔細研究當從很多視頻遊戲中選擇埃里克•恰西的《異世界》時我們聚集了一組專家一起為這次收購工作主要是凱特•卡莫迪、保羅•加洛韋和我我們花了一年半的時間在這上面很多人給予了我們幫助，比如遊戲設計師們也許你們知道雅​​明•沃倫和他在 KillScreen 雜誌社的合作者們還有凱文•斯拉文，多不勝舉我們向每一個人求教因為我們缺乏這方面的知識甚至算不上真正的玩家所以我們必須認真和他們交談當然，我們決定收藏《模擬城市2000》不包括其他系列，只收藏那一款在此過程中我們建立的選擇標準非常嚴格，而且不止是選擇標準還包括展覽標準和收藏標準所以這次收藏不只是遊戲不是玩笑，是考慮如何保存和展示那些在將來會成為我們生活一部分的工藝品的方法你們很清楚我們現在不是單純生活在數位世界或物質世界中，而是生活在由我們智慧創造的這兩種世界相結合的世界裡 那才是“交互”存在的地方和“交互”的重要性所在為了把“交互”解釋清楚我們必須把人們帶到這個領域來讓他們意識到為什麼“交互”是他們生活的一部分當我談論“交互”時談的不只是視頻遊戲視頻遊戲一定程度上是最純粹的“交互”形式沒有摻雜其它功能或權威性我同樣會談及紐約地鐵自動售票機我覺得那是“交互”作用的傑作因為售票機的介面非常美觀看起來像從管道裡鑽出來一位結實的紐約交管局的傢伙事實上，即使帶著手套你也可以把地鐵卡抓出來我還會談及自動取款機經常是多麼糟糕所以，我讓人們明白怎樣判斷“交互”由他們自己決定因此才知道何時是好、何時是壞所以當我展出《模擬人生》時我設法讓人們感受與《模擬人生》“交互”意味着什么他們感受到的不僅是樂趣還有伴隨電子寵物而來的責任感 即使視頻遊戲有時是完全盲目的但也能變得很深奧我肯定你們知道《魂塊》其規則是滾動一個球並在有限的時間內拾起盡可能多的物體並藉此創造一個星球我從沒成功過，但僅此而已了另外，《線條兔》並沒有在美國擴散那是 PlayStation 遊戲公司的一款遊戲其市場主要在日本而且那是最初幾款你可以自主選擇音樂的視頻遊戲中的一款所以你可以把它放進遊戲機裡或放進 CD 播放機裡然後遊戲會隨音樂改變而改變非常非常了不得 更不必說《星戰前夜》了你可以稱其為一個人造宇宙但是，一位在班加西被殺的外交官（並非大使史蒂文斯，而是他的合作者）在《星戰前夜》裡可是個大人物一名現實中的外交官花時間在《星戰前夜》上其目的可能是某種測試測試他關於宇宙運作的理念事實上，最先的炸彈襲擊通告是在《星戰前夜》裡宣布的他死後《星戰前夜》中宇宙的有幾個部分就以他的名字命名了最近在雷克雅維克（冰島首都）舉行了 EVE 全球玩家盛會我也參加了那場非常不可思議的盛會我是說我們談論的是一種可能對很多人來說比較奇怪的經歷但那很有教育意義當然還有其他遊戲更具教育意義 比如《矮人要塞》就是這種大規模聯網對戰的遊戲其實當時亞當兄弟倆也在雷克雅維克所有的 EVE 玩家就站著對他們表示了熱烈的歡迎EVE 是很出色的遊戲這個盛會也很讓人震驚所以現在你會發現畫面美感對 MoMA 這樣的博物館來說非常重要在挑選這些遊戲的過程中讓遊戲也保持了其活力 而且，Valve 軟件公司開發的《傳送門》是一個有特定類型暴力方式的視頻遊戲的例子同時在我們收藏了這些電子遊戲之後它也引導了我，讓我去談論我們必須討論的一個最大的問題——如何看待暴力你們說對吧？我們必須做出決定有趣的是，在 MoMA所有藏品中的藝術品裡很多都描繪有暴力元素作為一個義大利人19 年前我來到 MoMA 時我說，“知道嗎，我們需要收藏一把槍”（意大利P. Beretta SpA是最古老的槍械生產組織之一）他們卻告訴我“不行，設計類藏品裡不能有槍”我就想，“為什麼呀？”有趣的是，後來才我知道人們認為在設計和設計類藏品裡眼睛看到的就是作品要傳達的當設計類藏品裡有一把槍你看到就是一把殺人工具如果在藝術類藏品裡可能表達的就是對殺人工具的批判所以這非常有趣但是我們在收集臨界作品到設計類藏品裡可能有一天我們同樣可以收藏槍在現在這種特殊情況下凱特、保羅和我，我們決定必須有理有據的收藏與暴力相關的作品我們收藏《傳送門》是因為射擊牆壁是為了創造空間收藏《街頭霸王2》是因為高質量的武術（笑聲）但是我們沒收藏《俠盜獵車手》可能是出於我個人的原因因为，我不會做任何事情，除了撞車，槍殺妓女和皮條客所以其可取性不大我剛在開玩笑但是我們確實討論過很長時間當然你們不會知道至今我都比較矛盾但有了 Flow 這樣的替代遊戲後疑慮就消散了因為它跟寧靜和賞心悅目相關並帶你體驗作為海洋生物的意義此外我們還採集了一些經典的小遊戲那些是相當重要的採集品 而且現在我們開始了對前面 14 個的研究後面還會有一些其他的遊戲之所以現在還沒決定收藏它們是因為我們收藏的不僅是遊戲本身還有要獲得與該公司的關係我們渴望得到的是遊戲的代碼毫無疑問那很難得到所以那才使我們能將電子遊戲保存相當長的時間博物館都這樣幹博物館也為子孫們保存古器物沒有代碼……你們知道某些情況下視頻遊戲公司就不太可能出現因為我們沒有代碼故必須獲得與視頻遊戲公司的關係我們要永遠和它們在一起想都別想甩掉我們總有一天，我們會得到代碼（笑聲） 但我想向你們講清楚選擇交互設計作品的條件首先，“美感”非常重要現在你們看到的是《磁芯大戰》它是一個早期的遊戲利用介面的美感彌補了處理程序的不足所以你們在遊戲中看到的漂亮的像障礙物的干擾因素實際上是處理器不足的結果那仍然很棒啊所以說界面美感總是很重要的 同樣還有“空間”即遊戲的空間方面我感覺最好的視頻遊戲背後總有一群理解力超強的建築師如果他們不是建築師但受過良好的建築方面的訓練他們也會有那種感覺但視頻遊戲中的空間演化極其重要 還有“時間”我們在遊戲裡體驗時間的感覺作為交互設計的其他形式這是非常不可思議的它能作為真實的時間也能作為遊戲中的時間比如在《動物森林》裡四季就照著固有的順序循環 所以時間、空間、美感都非常重要然後是最重要的“行為”交互設計的根本核心就是“行為”處理交互設計行為的設計者將會影響到我們今後的生活他們不僅把我們的“交互行為”限制在屏幕上既然如此我給你們看看《瘋狂的石頭》很漂亮的一個遊戲遊戲裡，控制器是一個與你一起搖擺的球體有一個在畫面中運動的球體而且球體會帶給你一種移動的感覺某種程度上，你們能夠理解為什麼視頻遊戲是交互設計裡最純粹的方面視頻遊戲對闡釋交互作用也很有用 我們不想展示視頻遊戲設備不展示跟街機有關的甜蜜回憶如果非要展示的話，我們想展示代碼在這裡，你們看到的是本•弗萊用《吃豆人》的代碼製作的《吃豆人》代碼軌跡圖 所以我們收藏遊戲的方式很有趣，很另類你們可以看到這些遊戲與其他設計作品擺在一起比如家具和其他東西沒有相關遊戲設備，沒有回憶只有屏幕和放遊戲手柄的小架子因為手柄是體驗的一部分所以不能沒有它但奇怪的是，這樣的做法並沒有為遊戲玩家所責難之前我還擔心他們會殺了我們呢但相反，當我給他們說我在嘗試飛利浦•約翰遜在 1934 年用過的花招時他們特別理解我們的做法飛利浦想讓人們了解設計的重要性所以他把螺旋槳葉片和機械零部件放在 MoMA 畫廊裡靠牆的雕像基座上看起來像布蘭庫西的雕刻作品他營造出這種距離感和衝擊感就是為了讓人們意識到設計成品在外形上多麼美觀還有功能上多麼重要我想對視頻遊戲採取同樣的策略通過去除掉我們童年記憶中粘人的地毯、燃盡的煙頭等而且我想讓人們明白這些都是重要的設計形式而且在一定程度上視頻遊戲、数字字體等會讓人們對設計的含義有一個更寬泛的理解 我夢想過收藏一架波音747這個想法已擱置了好幾年現在又成當務之急了我想收藏它，但不是擁有它我不想它放在 MoMA成為 MoMA 的財產我想它繼續飛行所以這次收購需要 MoMA和航空公司簽署一個協定好讓波音 747 繼續飛行 同樣還有我們幾年前收藏的“@”符號它是我們做的第一個屬於公共領域中的事物的收購我向公眾說那就像一隻蝴蝶飛過我們抓住了牆上的影子而且我們只把蝴蝶的影子展示給你們這有點兒像我們展示了一個極重要的事物的外在形式而且那是我們的部分身份象徵但沒人能將其據為己有要說清楚這個收購要花很多時間但如果你們想去 MoMA 的博客主頁我在主頁上寫了一篇長博文講述為什麼那是一個重大的設計 你們知道嗎，一路走來我迫不得已燒掉了一些椅子我必須消除一些過時的設計理念但我發現，人們在進步反常的是，觀眾們對設計理念的擴大比我的一些同行們更积极响应，也更能理解設計無處不在設計與其他事情一樣重要我很欣慰，由於設計的多樣性和它在我們生活中的向心性越來越多的人在了解它並將其作為職業，作為激情說直接點作為他們自身文化的一部分 非常感謝 （掌聲）"
