Talk	en	zh-tw
paolo_cardini_forget_multitasking_try_monotasking	I'm a designer and an educator. I'm a multitasking person, and I push my students to fly through a very creative, multitasking design process. But how efficient is, really, this multitasking? Let's consider for a while the option of monotasking. A couple of examples. Look at that. This is my multitasking activity result. (Laughter) So trying to cook, answering the phone, writing SMS, and maybe uploading some pictures about this awesome barbecue. So someone tells us the story about supertaskers, so this two percent of people who are able to control multitasking environment. But what about ourselves, and what about our reality? When's the last time you really enjoyed just the voice of your friend? So this is a project I'm working on, and this is a series of front covers to downgrade our super, hyper — (Laughter) (Applause) to downgrade our super, hyper-mobile phones into the essence of their function. Another example: Have you ever been to Venice? How beautiful it is to lose ourselves in these little streets on the island. But our multitasking reality is pretty different, and full of tons of information. So what about something like that to rediscover our sense of adventure? I know that it could sound pretty weird to speak about mono when the number of possibilities is so huge, but I push you to consider the option of focusing on just one task, or maybe turning your digital senses totally off. So nowadays, everyone could produce his mono product. Why not? So find your monotask spot within the multitasking world. Thank you. (Applause)	我是位設計師及教育家我是個一心多用的人，我常鼓勵我的學生去體驗富有創意又多工的設計過程但說真的，一心多用能多有效率？ 讓我們稍稍思考一下專心一致這個選項舉幾個例子看看這個這就是我一心多用的結果（笑聲）所以我一邊烤肉、一邊回電話、發簡訊還上傳了幾張超讚的烤肉照片 那麼，總是有人講起多工超人的故事這百分之二的超人的確可以掌握一心多用的情境但我們行嗎？現實中可能嗎？你上一次單純只因為聽到朋友的聲音而感到愉快是多久以前的事了？所以這就是我正在做的計劃這是一系列的手機殻要把我們的超 —（笑聲）（掌聲）超多功能手機降級變回原有的單純功能 另一個例子是，你去過威尼斯嗎？那些島上的小街美得令人忘我但我們一心多用的現實卻不是如此資訊多到爆所以何不重拾我們的冒險精神？ 我知道在這個什麼都可能有的時代裡(約有95萬種應用程式供下載)談專心一致聽起來實在有點奇怪但我勸你考慮一次只專注一件事或乾脆把你的數位感官全都關掉 現在，每個人都可以製造自己的單一產品為什麼不呢？就在這個一心多用的世界裡找一個讓自己專心一致的地方吧！謝謝（掌聲）
