Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_pholeros_how_to_reduce_poverty_fix_homes	"The idea of eliminating poverty is a great goal. I don't think anyone in this room would disagree. What worries me is when politicians with money and charismatic rock stars — (Laughter) use the words, "" ... it all just sounds so, so simple."" Now, I've got no bucket of money today and I've got no policy to release, and I certainly haven't got a guitar. I'll leave that to others. But I do have an idea, and that idea is called Housing for Health. Housing for Health works with poor people. It works in the places where they live, and the work is done to improve their health. Over the last 28 years, this tough, grinding, dirty work has been done by literally thousands of people around Australia and, more recently, overseas, and their work has proven that focused design can improve even the poorest living environments. It can improve health and it can play a part in reducing, if not eliminating, poverty. I'm going to start where the story began — 1985, in Central Australia. A man called Yami Lester, an Aboriginal man, was running a health service. Eighty percent of what walked in the door, in terms of illness, was infectious disease — third world, developing world infectious disease, caused by a poor living environment. Yami assembled a team in Alice Springs. He got a medical doctor. He got an environmental health guy. And he hand-selected a team of local Aboriginal people to work on this project. Yami told us at that first meeting, ""There's no money,"" — always a good start — "" ... no money, you have six months, and I want you to start on a project —"" which, in his language, he called ""Uwankara Palyanku Kanyintjaku,"" which, translated, is ""a plan to stop people getting sick"" — a profound brief. That was our task. First step, the medical doctor went away for about six months. And he worked on what were to become these nine health goals — what were we aiming at? After six months of work, he came to my office and presented me with those nine words on a piece of paper. [The 9 Healthy Living Practices: Washing, clothes, wastewater, nutrition, crowding, animals, dust, temperature, injury] I was very unimpressed. Big ideas need big words, and preferably a lot of them. This didn't fit the bill. What I didn't see and what you can't see was that he'd assembled thousands of pages of local, national and international health research that filled out the picture as to why these were the health targets. The pictures that came a bit later had a very simple reason. The Aboriginal people who were our bosses and the senior people were most commonly illiterate, so the story had to be told in pictures of what these goals were. We worked with the community, not telling them what was going to happen in a language they didn't understand. So we had the goals and each one of these goals — and I won't go through them all — puts at the center the person and their health issue, and it then connects them to the bits of the physical environment that are actually needed to keep their health good. And the highest priority, you see on the screen, is washing people once a day, particularly children. And I hope most of you are thinking, ""What? That sounds simple."" Now, I'm going to ask you all a very personal question. This morning before you came, who could have had a wash using a shower? I'm not going to ask if you had a shower, because I'm too polite. That's it. (Laughter) All right, I think it's fair to say most people here could have had a shower this morning. I'm going to ask you to do some more work. I want you all to select one of the houses of the 25 houses you see on the screen. I want you to select one of them and note the position of that house and keep that in your head. Have you all got a house? I'm going to ask you to live there for a few months, so make sure you've got it right. It's in the northwest of Western Australia, very pleasant place. OK. Let's see if your shower in that house is working. I hear some ""Aw!"" and I hear some ""Ah!"" If you get a green tick, your shower's working. You and your kids are fine. If you get a red cross, well, I've looked carefully around the room and it's not going to make much difference to this crew. Why? Because you're all too old. I know that's going to come as a shock to some of you, but you are. And before you get offended and leave, I've got to say that being too old, in this case, means that pretty much everyone in the room, I think, is over five years of age. We're really concerned with kids naught to five. And why? Washing is the antidote to the sort of bugs, the common infectious diseases of the eyes, the ears, the chest and the skin that, if they occur in the first five years of life, permanently damage those organs. They leave a lifelong remnant. That means that by the age of five, you can't see as well for the rest of your life. You can't hear as well for the rest of your life. You can't breathe as well. You've lost a third of your lung capacity by the age of five. And even skin infection, which we originally thought wasn't that big a problem, mild skin infections naught to five give you a greatly increased chance of renal failure, needing dialysis at age 40. This is a big deal, so the ticks and crosses on the screen are actually critical for young kids. Those ticks and crosses represent the 7,800 houses we've looked at nationally around Australia, the same proportion. What you see on the screen — 35 percent of those not-so-famous houses lived in by 50,000 indigenous people — 35 percent had a working shower. Ten percent of those same 7,800 houses had safe electrical systems. And 58 percent of those houses had a working toilet. These are by a simple, standard test. In the case of the shower: does it have hot and cold water, two taps that work, a shower rose to get water onto your head or onto your body, and a drain that takes the water away? Not well-designed, not beautiful, not elegant — just that they function. And the same tests for the electrical system and the toilets. Housing for Health projects aren't about measuring failure — they're actually about improving houses. We start on day one of every project. We've learned — we don't make promises, we don't do reports. We arrive in the morning with tools, tons of equipment, trades, and we train up a local team on the first day to start work. By the evening of the first day, a few houses in that community are better than when we started in the morning. That work continues for six to 12 months, until all the houses are improved and we've spent our budget of 7,500 dollars total per house. That's our average budget. At the end of six months to a year, we test every house again. It's very easy to spend money. It's very difficult to improve the function of all those parts of the house. And for a whole house, the nine healthy living practices, we test, check and fix 250 items in every house. And these are the results we can get with our 7,500 dollars. We can get showers up to 86 percent working, we can get electrical systems up to 77 percent working and we can get 90 percent of toilets working in those 7,500 houses. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) The teams do a great job, and that's their work. I think there's an obvious question that I hope you're thinking about. Why do we have to do this work? Why are the houses in such poor condition? Seventy percent of the work we do is due to lack of routine maintenance — the sort of things that happen in all our houses. Things wear out, should have been done by state government or local government, simply not done, the house doesn't work. Twenty-one percent of the things we fix are due to faulty construction — literally things that are built upside down and back to front. They don't work, we have to fix them. And if you've lived in Australia in the last 30 years, the final cause — you will have heard always that indigenous people trash houses. It's one of the almost rock-solid pieces of evidence which I've never seen evidence for, that's always reeled out as ""That's the problem with indigenous housing."" Well, nine percent of what we spend is damage, misuse or abuse of any sort. We argue strongly that the people living in the house are simply not the problem. And we'll go a lot further than that; the people living in the house are actually a major part of the solution. Seventy-five percent of our national team in Australia — over 75 at the minute — are actually local, indigenous people from the communities we work in. They do all aspects of the work. (Applause) In 2010, for example, there were 831, all over Australia, and the Torres Strait Islands, all states, working to improve the houses where they and their families live, and that's an important thing. Our work's always had a focus on health. That's the key. The developing world bug, trachoma, causes blindness. It's a developing-world illness, and yet, the picture you see behind is in an Aboriginal community in the late 1990s, where 95 percent of school-aged kids had active trachoma in their eyes, doing damage. OK, what do we do? Well, first thing we do, we get showers working. Why? Because that flushes the bug out. We put washing facilities in the school as well, so kids can wash their faces many times during the day. We wash the bug out. Second, the eye doctors tell us that dust scours the eye and lets the bug in quick. So what do we do? We call up the doctor of dust, and there is such a person. He was loaned to us by a mining company. He controls dust on mining company sites. And he came out and, within a day, it worked out that most dust in this community was within a meter of the ground, the wind-driven dust — so he suggested making mounds to catch the dust before it went into the house area and affected the eyes of kids. So we used dirt to stop dust. We did it. He provided us dust monitors. We tested and we reduced the dust. Then we wanted to get rid of the bug generally. So how do we do that? Well, we call up the doctor of flies — and, yes, there is a doctor of flies. As our Aboriginal mate said, ""You white fellows ought to get out more."" (Laughter) And the doctor of flies very quickly determined that there was one fly that carried the bug. He could give school kids in this community the beautiful fly trap you see above in the slide. They could trap the flies, send them to him in Perth. When the bug was in the gut, he'd send back by return post some dung beetles. The dung beetles ate the camel dung, the flies died through lack of food, and trachoma dropped. And over the year, trachoma dropped radically in this place, and stayed low. We changed the environment, not just treated the eyes. And finally, you get a good eye. All these small health gains and small pieces of the puzzle make a big difference. The New South Wales Department of Health, that radical organization, did an independent trial over three years to look at 10 years of the work we've been doing in these sorts of projects in New South Wales. And they found a 40 percent reduction in hospital admissions for the illnesses that you could attribute to the poor environment — a 40 percent reduction. (Applause) Just to show that the principles we've used in Australia can be used in other places, I'm just going to go to one other place, and that's Nepal. And what a beautiful place to go. We were asked by a small village of 600 people to go in and make toilets where none existed. Health was poor. We went in with no grand plan, no grand promises of a great program, just the offer to build two toilets for two families. It was during the design of the first toilet that I went for lunch, invited by the family into their main room of the house. It was choking with smoke. People were cooking on their only fuel source, green timber. The smoke coming off that timber is choking, and in an enclosed house, you simply can't breathe. Later we found the leading cause of illness and death in this particular region is through respiratory failure. So all of a sudden, we had two problems. We were there originally to look at toilets and get human waste off the ground, that's fine. But all of a sudden now there was a second problem: How do we actually get the smoke down? So two problems, and design should be about more than one thing. Solution: Take human waste, take animal waste, put it into a chamber, out of that, extract biogas, methane gas. The gas gives three to four hours cooking a day — clean, smokeless and free for the family. (Applause) I put it to you: is this eliminating poverty? And the answer from the Nepali team who's working at the minute would say, don't be ridiculous — we have three million more toilets to build before we can even make a stab at that claim. And I don't pretend anything else. But as we all sit here today, there are now over 100 toilets built in this village and a couple nearby. Well over 1,000 people use those toilets. Yami Lama, he's a young boy. He's got significantly less gut infection because he's now got toilets, and there isn't human waste on the ground. Kanji Maya, she's a mother, and a proud one. She's probably right now cooking lunch for her family on biogas, smokeless fuel. Her lungs have got better, and they'll get better as time increases, because she's not cooking in the same smoke. Surya takes the waste out of the biogas chamber when it's shed the gas, he puts it on his crops. He's trebled his crop income, more food for the family and more money for the family. And finally Bishnu, the leader of the team, has now understood that not only have we built toilets, we've also built a team, and that team is now working in two villages where they're training up the next two villages to keep the work expanding. And that, to me, is the key. (Applause) People are not the problem. We've never found that. The problem: poor living environment, poor housing and the bugs that do people harm. None of those are limited by geography, by skin color or by religion. None of them. The common link between all the work we've had to do is one thing, and that's poverty. Nelson Mandela said, in the mid-2000s, not too far from here, he said that like slavery and apartheid, ""Poverty is not natural. It is man-made and can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings."" I want to end by saying it's been the actions of thousands of ordinary human beings doing — I think — extraordinary work, that have actually improved health, and, maybe only in a small way, reduced poverty. Thank you very much for your time. (Applause)"	"想要消滅貧窮是個偉大的目標我想在座的各位都會同意我擔心的是有錢的政治人物及充滿魅力的搖滾明星用這個字使這一切聽起來非常非常簡單 那麼，我今天沒有半毛錢也沒有政策要公佈我當然也沒有吉他我把那些都留給別人去做但我的確有個計畫這個計畫稱做健康的家 健康的家與窮人合作在他們住的地方實際運作而計畫完成後能改善他們的健康過去 28 年來這份艱難、費力，又會弄得滿身污泥的工作已有上千人在澳洲親自完成近期更拓展至海外他們的工作證明了藉由量身訂作的設計即使是最貧窮的生活環境也能改善它能改善健康而且雖還稱不上消滅但至少在減少貧窮上也有功勞 我要從 1985 年說起故事從澳洲中部開始有一位叫亞米的原住民那時候管理一間健康服務中心上門求診的人有 80% 得的是傳染病第三世界發展中國家的傳染病通常都是因為很糟的生活環境而引起 亞米在愛麗斯泉組了一個團隊他找了位醫生他找了位搞環境衛生的傢伙然後他親自從當地原住民中挑出一群人參與這個計畫亞米在第一次會議上告訴我們他們沒錢非常好的開始，沒錢你有六個月的時間我要你開始一項計畫他的母語稱這計畫為""uwankara palyanku kanyintjaku""翻譯起來就是「讓人不再生病的計畫」非常深遠的信念那就是我們的任務 第一步，那位醫生離開約六個月時間他做的研究後來變成了健康目標的項目我們集中火力的目標六個月後他回到我的辦公室在一張紙上寫下那九個字對我做簡報 『九項健康生活原則：洗澡、洗衣、廢水、營養、擁擠、動物、粉塵、溫度、受傷。』 那時我極度不為所動搞什麼遠大的想法要配艱澀的文字最好還是一大堆這跟我所想的不合當時我沒看見而你們在這也看不到的是他其實集結了數千頁當地、全國及國際的健康研究然後填進圖片說明為什麼這些是健康目標 這些圖片晚一點才畫出來理由很簡單這些原住民是我們的老闆而老一輩的人大多普遍是文盲所以一定要用圖片來告訴這些人我們的目標是什麼我們要與這個社群合作不能用他們聽不懂的語言來告訴他們要做什麼 所以我們把目標，每一項目標──我不會在此一一詳述──放在中心的是居民及其健康問題然後把這個中心目標與實際的生活環境相連就是他們實際所需以維持健康的環境最優先的，你在螢幕上看到了是讓大家每天洗一次澡尤其是孩童 我很希望在座的各位會想「什麼？這太簡單了吧。」 那麼，我來問各位一個非常私人的問題今天早上你們來之前誰可以用蓮蓬頭沖個澡的？我不是要問你們是不是有洗澡因為我很有禮貌，就是這樣（笑聲）好，好我想這麼說不為過，在座大部分的人今天早上都可以沖個澡 我還要再讓各位多做點事我要你們所有人從螢幕上的 25 間房子裡選出一間我要你們從中選一間且注意一下那間房子的位置然後記在腦子裡都選好房子了嗎？我要請你們在那裡住幾個月所以你要確定你選了合意的房子這位於西澳的西北區非常宜人的地方 好，來看看你選的房子淋浴設備能不能用我聽到了一些「喔」還有「啊」 如果你選的房子打了綠勾你的淋浴設備能用你和你的孩子會很好如果你拿了個紅叉嗯，我已經仔細看過這廳裡的人對你們這群人其實也沒差為什麼？因為你們都太老了我知道這對在座某些人而言很震驚但你真的太老了那麼在你覺得被冒犯而離座前我要說一下所謂太老，在這是說我想幾乎在座的每一位都超過五歲 我們非常注意零到五歲的孩子為什麼？洗澡是病菌感染的解毒劑常見的感染型疾病，像眼睛、耳朵胸腔及皮膚等等這些如果在生命的頭五年發生會對這些器官造成永久性傷害這些疾病會殘留一輩子也就是說到了五歲你的視力一輩子都不會太好你的聽力一輩子都不會太好你的呼吸也不會太好五歲的時候你會失去三分之一的肺活量甚至是皮膚感染，我們一開始覺得這不是甚麼大問題零到五歲間，即使是輕微的皮膚感染也會大幅增加腎衰竭的機會使你在四十歲時需要洗腎這是大問題所以這些螢幕上的綠勾紅叉對年幼的孩子其實非常關鍵 這些綠勾紅叉的比例與我們在整個澳洲所合作的 7,800 棟房子比例相同你在螢幕上看到的──35% 的這些沒名氣的房子裡住著五萬名土著35% 有可使用的淋浴設備同樣這 7,800 間房子裡10% 有安全的電力系統58% 的房子有可使用的抽水馬桶這些是用簡單的標準測試出來的在淋浴設備方面，有沒有熱水及冷水兩種可用的水龍頭有沒有蓮蓬頭把水送到你的頭上或身上？有沒有下水口排水？不看設計好不好漂不漂亮，優不優雅 ——就只看功能如何在看電力系統及馬桶時也是同樣的測試法 健康的家計畫不是拿來測量失敗率的這些計畫是為了改善房屋而做的我們從每個計畫的第一天開始──我們學到不給承諾，不做報告我們早上拿著工具還有多到不行的器材貨物到家裡我們在第一天就培訓了一個由當地人組成的團隊來開始工作第一天晚上那個社區就有幾間房子變得比我們早上開始的時候更好了這樣的工作要持續六到十二個月直到所有的房子都改善為止我們花在每間房子的經費是7,500 元那是平均經費在六個月到一年的計畫結束後我們會再測試每一間房子要花錢很容易要改善房子裡的每一項功能卻非常困難對整間房子而言為了推行這九項健康生活我們要在每一間房屋裡測試、檢查、修繕 250 個項目 以下是我們花 7,500 元所得到的結果我們可以修好 86% 的淋浴設備我們可以讓 77% 的電力設備恢復功能也可以修好 90% 的抽水馬桶在這 7,500 間房子裡 謝謝（掌聲） 這個團隊做得非常好這些就是他們辛苦的結果 我想有個明顯的問題我希望你們能思考一下為什麼我們要做這樣的事？為什麼這些房子的狀況這麼糟？我們所做的工作之中的 70%是由於疏於日常保養所有的房子都可看見這種情況東西用壞了這些都該由中央政府或地方政府來做不做，這些房子就不堪用我們修的東西當中有 21%是因為錯誤安裝真的就是上下或前後裝顛倒這些當然不能使用，我們要修理 如果過去 30 年間你曾住在澳洲最後這項因素——你一定老是聽到人家這麼說就是原住民不珍惜房子這幾乎是堅不可攻的證據但我從來沒看過有什麼證明總是不需要多想因為這些是原住民住房的問題我們修的房子裡有 9%的確有損害、誤用或濫用的情況但是對此我們強烈抗議，住在房子裡的人不是問題所在我們還要更進一步說住在房子裡的那些人其實還是解決問題的主要推手我們在澳洲的團隊有 75% 的人現在還超過 75%其實是當地人，土著來自我們幫助的社區他們做各樣的工作 （掌聲）舉個例，2010 年在全澳洲、托雷斯海峽群島，以及每一個州共有 831 人參與改善他們自己和家人居住的房子而那是很重要的事我們的工作總是著重在健康，這是關鍵發展中國家的沙眼病菌會導致失明這是發展中國家的疾病但是你在我身後看到的這張照片是 1990 年代晚期的原住民社區那裡 95% 的學齡兒童患有沙眼對眼睛造成損傷所以我們做了什麼？首先我們把淋浴設備搞定為什麼？因為這會把病菌沖走我們也在學校裡裝了洗滌設備所以孩子們白天可以洗很多次臉我們把病菌洗掉第二，眼科醫師告訴我們灰塵會磨擦眼睛使病菌更快附著所以我們怎麼做？我們徵調了粉塵醫生真的有這種人我們從採礦公司借將他在採礦場控制粉塵量所以他來了，而且在幾天內就奏效這個社區的大部分灰塵都飄在距地表一公尺範圍內風會帶來灰塵所以他建議做些土牆擋住灰塵讓灰塵吹不進居住區危害孩童的眼睛所以我們用土堆擋灰塵我們就這麼做了。他提供了粉塵計我們作測試減低粉塵量然後我們還想大規模地消滅這種病菌所以我們要怎麼做？嗯，我們徵調蒼蠅醫生沒錯，真的有蒼蠅醫生如同我們一位原住民夥伴說的：「你們這些白人應該多出來走走。」（笑聲）這個蒼蠅醫生很快判斷出有一種蒼蠅是病媒他可以給這個社區的學校孩童美麗的蒼蠅陷阱你可在上面那張照片上看到這些可以捕蒼蠅然後把這些送到伯斯給他如果在蒼蠅的腸子裡找到這些病菌他就以回郵送回一些糞金龜糞金龜會吃駱駝糞所以蒼蠅會因缺乏食物而死那麼沙眼病例就會下降而過去這一年，沙眼病例在此急遽下降，並維持低患病率我們要改變環境，不是只來治療眼睛所以最後，你就會有好眼睛這些小小的健康成效與小小的拼圖，可以做出大大的改變新南威爾斯健康部這個激進組織在過去三年做了一個獨立試驗來檢驗我們這十年在新威爾斯省所做的這一類的計畫成果他們發現因病住院的情況減少了 40%而這些疾病可以歸咎為不健全的生活環境40% 的減少（掌聲）為了證明我們在澳洲用的這些原理也可以用在其它地方我要再介紹另一個地方，就是尼泊爾這真是一個美麗的地方有個 600 人的村落要求我們進入村子並蓋廁所那裡一間也沒有衛生很差我們去的時候沒有偉大的計畫也沒有偉大的承諾要做多大計畫，就只是進去蓋兩間廁所給兩戶人家使用就是在設計第一間廁所的時候我進屋去吃午餐，那戶人家邀我進入他們房子的主廳裡面煙霧瀰漫他們拿唯一的燃料，生木材來煮飯燒燒生木材產生的煙令人窒息而且在密閉的房屋裡你簡直無法呼吸之後我們發現他們生病及死亡的最主要原因在這個區域是因為呼吸衰竭所以突然間我們有了兩個難題我們本來是去看看廁所要把人的排泄物挪開地面，這還好但突然間，現在出現了第二個難題我們要怎麼把煙霧減少？所以現在問題有二而設計應該一石二鳥答案：把人的排泄物，動物排泄物放進一個密室，從中抽出沼氣就是甲烷氣這些氣體可以維持一天三到四小時的煮飯所需乾淨無煙不花一毛錢（掌聲）現在我要問你們這算不算消滅貧窮？現在還在工作的尼泊爾團隊會回答說，別傻了！在我們嘗試宣告消滅貧窮前還有三百萬間廁所要蓋我也不想假裝什麼但到現在這一刻為止他們已經蓋了超過 100 間廁所在這個村落及其附近超過一千人在使用這些廁所雅米‧拉瑪，他是個年輕男孩他很明顯不再那麼常得腸胃炎因為他有了廁所可用地表上不再有人的排泄物肯治‧瑪雅，她是位值得誇耀的母親她現在大概就在為她的家庭煮午飯用沼氣，無煙的燃料她的肺更健康了，而且隨著時間還會變得更好因為她不用在煙霧下煮飯沼氣排完後，索亞就把排泄物搬出沼氣室把這些排泄物澆在作物上他的作物收入增加了兩倍家裡有更多的食物及金錢最後是畢士努這個團隊的領隊，他現在明瞭我們不只建造了廁所我們還建造了一個團隊而且這個團隊現正在兩個村落工作他們在那裡訓練另外兩個村落的人持續擴展工作而那對我是關鍵（掌聲）人不是問題我們從來不這麼看問題是：條件差的生活環境條件差的住宅，及會危害人的病菌這些不會受地域限制也不會受皮膚顏色或信仰影響，全都不會我們所作之事的共通處就一件事，而那就是貧窮曼德拉曾在 2000 年代中期離現在還不算太久，說過就像奴隸制度和種族隔離「貧窮並非天生它是人所創造，而人類的行動可以克服及消滅它。」我最後想說，這是數千平凡人的行動以不平凡的工作來實際改善健康以及減少貧窮，就算只有一點點謝謝你們寶貴的時間（掌聲）"
