Talk	en	zh-tw
paul_piff_does_money_make_you_mean	"I want you to, for a moment, think about playing a game of Monopoly. Except in this game, that combination of skill, talent and luck that helped earn you success in games, as in life, has been rendered irrelevant, because this game's been rigged, and you've got the upper hand. You've got more money, more opportunities to move around the board, and more access to resources. And as you think about that experience, I want you to ask yourself: How might that experience of being a privileged player in a rigged game change the way you think about yourself and regard that other player? So, we ran a study on the UC Berkeley campus to look at exactly that question. We brought in more than 100 pairs of strangers into the lab, and with the flip of a coin, randomly assigned one of the two to be a rich player in a rigged game. They got two times as much money; when they passed Go, they collected twice the salary; and they got to roll both dice instead of one, so they got to move around the board a lot more. (Laughter) And over the course of 15 minutes, we watched through hidden cameras what happened. What I want to do today, for the first time, is show you a little bit of what we saw. You'll to have to pardon the sound quality, because again, these were hidden cameras. So we've provided subtitles. [Video] Rich Player: How many 500s did you have? Poor Player: Just one. RP: Are you serious? PP: Yeah. RP: I have three. (Laughs) I don't know why they gave me so much. Paul Piff: So it was quickly apparent to players that something was up. One person clearly has a lot more money than the other person, and yet, as the game unfolded, we saw very notable differences, dramatic differences begin to emerge between the two players. The rich player started to move around the board louder, literally smacking the board with the piece as he went around. (Game piece smacks board) We were more likely to see signs of dominance and nonverbal signs, displays of power and celebration among the rich players. We had a bowl of pretzels positioned off to the side. It's on the bottom right corner. That allowed us to watch participants' consummatory behavior. So we're just tracking how many pretzels participants eat. [Video] RP: Are those pretzels a trick? PP: I don't know. Paul Piff: OK, so no surprises, people are on to us. They wonder what that bowl of pretzels is doing there in the first place. One even asks, like you just saw, ""Is that bowl of pretzels there as a trick?"" And yet, despite that, the power of the situation seems to inevitably dominate, and those rich players start to eat more pretzels. (Laughter) [Video] RP: I love pretzels. (Laughter) Paul Piff: And as the game went on, one of the really interesting and dramatic patterns that we observed begin to emerge was that the rich players actually started to become ruder toward the other person — less and less sensitive to the plight of those poor, poor players, and more and more demonstrative of their material success, more likely to showcase how well they're doing. [Video] RP: I have money ... (Laughs) I have money for everything. PP: How much is that? RP: You owe me 24 dollars. You're going to lose all your money soon. I'll buy it. I have so much money. I have so much money, it takes me forever. RP 2: I'm going to buy out this whole board. RP 3: You're going to run out of money soon. I'm pretty much untouchable at this point. (Laughter) Paul Piff: And here's what I think was really, really interesting: it's that, at the end of the 15 minutes, we asked the players to talk about their experience during the game. And when the rich players talked about why they had inevitably won in this rigged game of Monopoly ... (Laughter) They talked about what they'd done to buy those different properties and earn their success in the game. (Laughter) And they became far less attuned to all those different features of the situation — including that flip of a coin — that had randomly gotten them into that privileged position in the first place. And that's a really, really incredible insight into how the mind makes sense of advantage. Now, this game of Monopoly can be used as a metaphor for understanding society and its hierarchical structure, wherein some people have a lot of wealth and a lot of status, and a lot of people don't; they have a lot less wealth and a lot less status and a lot less access to valued resources. And what my colleagues and I for the last seven years have been doing is studying the effects of these kinds of hierarchies. What we've been finding across dozens of studies and thousands of participants across this country is that as a person's levels of wealth increase, their feelings of compassion and empathy go down, and their feelings of entitlement, of deservingness, and their ideology of self-interest increase. In surveys, we've found that it's actually wealthier individuals who are more likely to moralize greed being good, and that the pursuit of self-interest is favorable and moral. Now, what I want to do today is talk about some of the implications of this ideology self-interest, talk about why we should care about those implications, and end with what might be done. Some of the first studies that we ran in this area looked at helping behavior, something social psychologists call ""pro-social behavior."" And we were really interested in who's more likely to offer help to another person: someone who's rich or someone who's poor. In one of the studies, we bring rich and poor members of the community into the lab, and give each of them the equivalent of 10 dollars. We told the participants they could keep these 10 dollars for themselves, or they could share a portion of it, if they wanted to, with a stranger, who's totally anonymous. They'll never meet that stranger; the stranger will never meet them. And we just monitor how much people give. Individuals who made 25,000, sometimes under 15,000 dollars a year, gave 44 percent more of their money to the stranger than did individuals making 150,000, 200,000 dollars a year. We've had people play games to see who's more or less likely to cheat to increase their chances of winning a prize. In one of the games, we actually rigged a computer so that die rolls over a certain score were impossible — You couldn't get above 12 in this game, and yet ... the richer you were, the more likely you were to cheat in this game to earn credits toward a $50 cash prize — sometimes by three to four times as much. We ran another study where we looked at whether people would be inclined to take candy from a jar of candy that we explicitly identified as being reserved for children — (Laughter) I'm not kidding — I know it sounds like I'm making a joke. We explicitly told participants: ""This candy is for children participating in a developmental lab nearby. They're in studies. This is for them."" And we just monitored how much candy participants took. Participants who felt rich took two times as much candy as participants who felt poor. We've even studied cars. Not just any cars, but whether drivers of different kinds of cars are more or less inclined to break the law. In one of these studies, we looked at whether drivers would stop for a pedestrian that we had posed waiting to cross at a crosswalk. Now in California, as you all know, because I'm sure we all do this, it's the law to stop for a pedestrian who's waiting to cross. So here's an example of how we did it. That's our confederate off to the left, posing as a pedestrian. He approaches as the red truck successfully stops. In typical California fashion, it's overtaken by the bus who almost runs our pedestrian over. (Laughter) Now here's an example of a more expensive car, a Prius, driving through, and a BMW doing the same. So we did this for hundreds of vehicles on several days, just tracking who stops and who doesn't. What we found was as the expensiveness of a car increased ... (Laughter) the drivers' tendencies to break the law increased as well. None of the cars — none of the cars — in our least expensive car category broke the law. Close to 50 percent of the cars in our most expensive vehicle category broke the law. We've run other studies, finding that wealthier individuals are more likely to lie in negotiations, to endorse unethical behavior at work, like stealing cash from the cash register, taking bribes, lying to customers. Now, I don't mean to suggest that it's only wealthy people who show these patterns of behavior. Not at all — in fact, I think that we all, in our day-to-day, minute-by-minute lives, struggle with these competing motivations of when or if to put our own interests above the interests of other people. And that's understandable, because the American dream is an idea in which we all have an equal opportunity to succeed and prosper, as long as we apply ourselves and work hard. And a piece of that means that sometimes, you need to put your own interests above the interests and well-being of other people around you. But what we're finding is that the wealthier you are, the more likely you are to pursue a vision of personal success, of achievement and accomplishment, to the detriment of others around you. Here I've plotted for you the mean household income received by each fifth and top five percent of the population over the last 20 years. In 1993, the differences between the different quintiles of the population, in terms of income, are fairly egregious. It's not difficult to discern that there are differences. But over the last 20 years, that significant difference has become a Grand Canyon of sorts between those at the top and everyone else. In fact, the top 20 percent of our population own close to 90 percent of the total wealth in this country. We're at unprecedented levels of economic inequality. What that means is that wealth is not only becoming increasingly concentrated in the hands of a select group of individuals, but the American dream is becoming increasingly unattainable for an increasing majority of us. And if it's the case, as we've been finding, that the wealthier you are, the more entitled you feel to that wealth, and the more likely you are to prioritize your own interests above the interests of other people, and be willing to do things to serve that self-interest, well, then, there's no reason to think that those patterns will change. In fact, there's every reason to think that they'll only get worse, and that's what it would look like if things just stayed the same, at the same linear rate, over the next 20 years. Now inequality — economic inequality — is something we should all be concerned about, and not just because of those at the bottom of the social hierarchy, but because individuals and groups with lots of economic inequality do worse ... not just the people at the bottom, everyone. There's a lot of really compelling research coming out from top labs all over the world, showcasing the range of things that are undermined as economic inequality gets worse. Social mobility, things we really care about, physical health, social trust, all go down as inequality goes up. Similarly, negative things in social collectives and societies, things like obesity, and violence, imprisonment, and punishment, are exacerbated as economic inequality increases. Again, these are outcomes not just experienced by a few, but that resound across all strata of society. Even people at the top experience these outcomes. So what do we do? This cascade of self-perpetuating, pernicious, negative effects could seem like something that's spun out of control, and there's nothing we can do about it, certainly nothing we as individuals could do. But in fact, we've been finding in our own laboratory research that small psychological interventions, small changes to people's values, small nudges in certain directions, can restore levels of egalitarianism and empathy. For instance, reminding people of the benefits of cooperation or the advantages of community, cause wealthier individuals to be just as egalitarian as poor people. In one study, we had people watch a brief video, just 46 seconds long, about childhood poverty that served as a reminder of the needs of others in the world around them. And after watching that, we looked at how willing people were to offer up their own time to a stranger presented to them in the lab, who was in distress. After watching this video, an hour later, rich people became just as generous of their own time to help out this other person, a stranger, as someone who's poor, suggesting that these differences are not innate or categorical, but are so malleable to slight changes in people's values, and little nudges of compassion and bumps of empathy. And beyond the walls of our lab, we're even beginning to see signs of change in society. Bill Gates, one of our nation's wealthiest individuals, in his Harvard commencement speech, talked about the problem of inequality facing society as being the most daunting challenge, and talked about what must be done to combat it, saying, ""Humanity's greatest advances are not in its discoveries — but in how those discoveries are applied to reduce inequity."" And there's the Giving Pledge, in which more than 100 of our nation's wealthiest individuals are pledging half of their fortunes to charity. And there's the emergence of dozens of grassroots movements, like ""We are the 1 percent,"" ""Resource Generation,"" or ""Wealth for Common Good,"" in which the most privileged members of the population, members of the one percent and elsewhere, people who are wealthy, are using their own economic resources, adults and youth alike — that's what's most striking to me — leveraging their own privilege, their own economic resources, to combat inequality by advocating for social policies, changes in social values and changes in people's behavior that work against their own economic interests, but that may ultimately restore the American dream. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想請在座的各位想像我們一起玩大富翁只是在這場遊戲裡那些讓你在遊戲與人生中成功的能力、天分、運氣都無關緊要因為這場遊戲被動過手腳你因此佔了上風你更有錢比別人更多移動的機會更能接觸資源當你這麼想像時也請自問在這被動手腳的遊戲中作為佔上風的玩家會如何改變對自己和其他玩家的看法呢？ 我們在加州柏克萊大學研究這個問題我們帶100對以上的陌生人到研究室用擲硬幣的方式隨機分配兩人中的一人當富有的玩家富玩家領的錢會多兩倍每經過起點就會多領一倍的薪水還能一次擲兩個骰子所以更有機會多走幾圈（笑聲）我們便在這15分鐘內從隱藏相機觀察他們今日是我們首次公布我們觀察的成果若音質不太好請予見諒畢竟這些都來自隱蔽鏡頭大家可以讀字幕富玩家：嘿，你有多少張 500元？窮玩家：就一張 富玩家：開玩笑的吧?!窮玩家：是啊 富玩家：我有三張（笑聲）真不知他們幹嘛給我這麼多 講員：好，玩家很快就注意到有些事情不太對勁其中一位很明顯比另一位更有錢但當遊戲繼續時我們看到既顯著又巨大的差異在兩位玩家之間出現富玩家移動跳棋的聲音變大根本就是邊跳棋邊砸紙板我們開始看到宣示主權的樣子和非語言表達都在展現勢力和富玩家互相慶祝 我們有碗椒鹽脆餅放在一旁就在那右下角這讓我們得以觀察參與者的胃口然後單純追蹤他們吃了多少脆餅 富玩家：這些脆餅有什詭計嗎? 窮玩家：不知 講者：可想而知，他們開始懷疑我們了他們懷疑那碗脆餅為什麼一開始就在那就像你剛看到的一位甚至問那碗脆餅放在那是否藏有詭計即便如此，主權似乎仍不可避免的開始展現出來那些富玩家開始吃更多的脆餅了 富玩家: 我愛～椒鹽脆餅 (笑聲) 講員: 遊戲持續時我們觀察出一種有趣又戲劇化的既定模式富玩家開始對另一位玩家更粗魯對於這些窮玩家可憐的處境顯得越來越沒同理心也越來越愛誇炫自己物質上的豐碩更愛現他們有多成功富玩家: 我樣樣不缺錢窮玩家: 那有多少?富玩家:你欠我24美元你快傾家蕩產了我買。反正我有的是錢。多到花都花不完富玩家2:我要買起這整張紙板富玩家3: 你就要身無分文了我已經到了無可匹敵的地步了 講員: 現在，這是我覺得特別特別有趣的地方在15分鐘的遊戲結束後我們詢問玩家在這遊戲中取得的經驗當富玩家談到為何他們最終贏了這場我們動過手腳的大富翁遊戲(笑聲)他們高闊談論費了多少力才買下各種資產然後獲得成功對於遊戲過程中感到怪異的也變得無感包括以擲硬幣的方式隨機讓他們雀屏中選在遊戲一開始就取得優勢這給予我們很棒的機會洞察人的心理如何對優勢作出合理的解釋 這場大富翁遊戲影射整個社會幫助我們了解社會的階級體制有些人擁有許多財富和身分地位多數人卻沒有他們過的較拮据 沒有社會地位也較難取得有用資源過去7年我與同事一起研究這些階級體制帶來的影響我們從各地數千名參與者身上得出的結論是個人財富比例越高憐憫心和同理心都會同時降低對於頭銜的慾望，享有應得的和自身利益相關的意識都會增加我們在調查中發現較富有的人更容易把貪婪道德化而追求自身利益也被當做是道德的今天我想談談追求自身利益暗示著甚麼談我們為何應該關注這些事以及相關對策 我們在這個領域裡首先做的研究是那些互助行為社會學家稱作為「利社會行為」我們對誰更會對別人施以援手更感興趣是富人還是窮人呢?在某項研究裡 我們邀社區裡的富人和窮人到實驗室給每位10美元我們告訴參與者他們可選擇保留這10美元或與人分享一部分若他們想要也可贈予完全不認識的陌生人而且雙方以後都不會再遇到接著很單純的監視人們會給多少一年賺2萬5或低於1萬5的參與者更願意贈與44%自己的錢給陌生人而一年賺15萬或20萬的人卻不太會 我們讓參與者玩遊戲藉此看出誰更容易作弊增加贏得獎金的機會其中我們對一台電腦作了手腳讓骰子難以出現特定的數字這遊戲無法讓你得超過12點然而你越富有就越有可能作弊以便獲得近50美元的獎金有時甚至有3、4倍之多 我們所做的另一項研究是告訴參與者是否會拿糖果罐裡的糖果我們清楚的告訴他們那罐糖果是要留給小孩吃的(笑聲)我是說真的我知道這聽起來很可笑但我們很清楚的告知參與者那一罐糖果是要給在附近研究室裡的小孩吃的他們就在研究室裡這是要給他們的然後我們監控參與者吃了多少糖果感到富有的參與者比感到窮的參與者多吃兩倍的糖果 我們甚至研究車輛不只是任何車輛而是不同車款的車主是否更傾向於犯法其中一項研究裡 我們察看駕駛員是否會為行人停下來這些要過馬路的人都是我們請的在加州 我確信你們都知道因為我們都做過法律明規路人要過馬路時需停車這是大家平常的做法左邊是我們的人裝作要過馬路他在紅色卡車成功停下時過馬路在加州也很常見公車像是沒看到路人直接開過去(笑聲)這是另一個較為昂貴的轎車豐田普銳斯和BMW的做法一樣我們花了好幾天研究了幾百輛車追蹤誰會和誰不會為路人停我們發現越貴的車裡坐的駕駛員就越傾向於犯法在那些最便宜的車款中沒有任何一輛，沒有任何一輛觸法。而近乎5成的汽車在我們最昂貴的車款項目裡都犯法我們在別的研究裡也發現更富有的人在協商時更容易說謊或在工作上做出沒道德的事像是從收銀機裡偷錢接受賄路，欺騙顧客 我不是要說只有富人才會有這類的行為不是的 我想我們大家在每日每分的生活裡都得跟這些動機交戰好幾回像是何時放下個人的利益把他人的利益擺在前面這種掙扎在所難免因為美國夢的思維是人人都有平等的機會成功、發達只要我們認真努力打拼那就意味著有時我們的自身利益得放在別人的利益和福利前面但我們也研究出越富有的人越能想像個人成功的樣子其成就和豐功偉業甚至不惜損及周遭的人這裡是每5分之1的人口和前5%人口的平均家庭收入這資料匯集超過20年1993年 其差異在每5分之1人口的薪水上就相當的糟要分辨出其差異很簡單但過去20年 其差異變得像大峽谷一樣淵長夾在頂端和普遍人口之間人口頂端的2成就擁有這國家近9成的財富我們已到前所未見的經濟失衡這意味著財富不只逐漸集中在少數特定人口的手上但取得美國夢對大多數的我們也顯得難上加難若這是問題的癥結也就是你越富有就越覺得應得那份財富也就更傾向自己的利益優先再來才會輪到別人的然後竭盡心力的維護自身利益這樣的情況下其差異當然不會縮小反而給足理由認定情況只會越來越糟若情況沒改善的話接下來的20年情況也不會好轉 我們全部人，都應該關心經濟的分配不均而不只限於社會底層的人因為在分配不均的經濟情況裡個人和團體都過的更不好不只是社會底層 大家也都蒙受其害有份可信度十分高的研究來自世界各地頂尖的實驗室證實社會問題隨著經濟失衡變本加厲也會隨之變得更嚴重像是社會流動和我們很在乎的如健康，社會互信等方面全都會隨著不平等的增長降低依此類推社會和其群體性的負面如過胖，暴力關押，處罰也會隨之遽增這些不良的後果不是只有少數的有所體會而是橫跨社會各個階級甚至那些身處高位的人也會有經歷這些後果 那我們該作些什麼呢?這一連串壞的影響正自運轉著隨時都會失控而我們卻束手無策以個人的力量當然沒辦法解決但我們實際上卻在自己的研究室發現只要在心理上作少許的干預在價值觀上作些小改變微微轉移他們的注意力便能重新回到正常的平等主義和同理心例如，提醒人們團結的力量或社區可帶來的益處讓富人也可變得跟窮人一樣的愛平等一項研究邀參與者看僅46秒有關家境貧困的簡短影片用意在於提醒他們別人的需要看了那片子後我們觀察人們會變得有多願意用自己的時間去幫助在研究室裡苦惱的陌生人一小時後看那片子的富人變得一樣大方願意奉獻自己的時間去幫助別人一位陌生人或貧困的人這些研究顯示差異並不是與生俱來的或侷限在你來自哪個社會階層這是可改變得稍微改變人們的價值觀輕輕提醒他們該更有憐憫心更富有同理心 橫越過我們實驗室牆外我們甚至開始看到社會改變的跡象比爾•蓋茲，我國最富有的人之一在哈佛畢業典禮的演講中他談到社會問題解決不平等的現象是艱困的挑戰也談到該做什麼來打擊問題他說: 「 ...人類最大的進步並不是來自於這些發現 —而是在於那些被用來減少不平等的創見。」(取自Morton's Weblog)還有「捐贈誓言」我國超過100位的富豪都發誓簽署捐贈他們一半的資產給慈善機構還有許多民間運動逐漸匯集像「我們是那1%的人口」「資源世代」(自譯:吳貞慧)「普及財富」(自譯)也就是人口中擁有許多特權的人人口頂尖的1%等以及富豪都在運用自己的經濟資源不管是成年人或青少年－　最讓我驚喜的都在運用自身的優勢和經濟資源對抗不平等藉由擁護社會方針改善社會價值觀改善人們的行為即便與自身利益相突但終能給予希望恢復美國夢 謝謝 (掌聲)
