Talk	en	zh-tw
peggy_orenstein_what_young_women_believe_about_their_own_sexual_pleasure	"For several years now, we've been engaged in a national debate about sexual assault on campus. No question — it's crucial that young people understand the ground rules for consent, but that's where the conversation about sex is ending. And in that vacuum of information the media and the Internet — that new digital street corner — are educating our kids for us. If we truly want young people to engage safely, ethically, and yes, enjoyably, it's time to have open honest discussion about what happens after ""yes,"" and that includes breaking the biggest taboo of all and talking to young people about women's capacity for and entitlement to sexual pleasure. Yeah. (Applause) Come on, ladies. (Applause) I spent three years talking to girls ages 15 to 20 about their attitudes and experience of sex. And what I found was that while young women may feel entitled to engage in sexual behavior, they don't necessarily feel entitled to enjoy it. Take this sophomore at the Ivy League college who told me, ""I come from a long line of smart, strong women. My grandmother was a firecracker, my mom is a professional, my sister and I are loud, and that's our form of feminine power."" She then proceeded to describe her sex life to me: a series of one-off hookups, starting when she was 13, that were ... not especially responsible, not especially reciprocal and not especially enjoyable. She shrugged. ""I guess we girls are just socialized to be these docile creatures who don't express our wants or needs."" ""Wait a minute,"" I replied. ""Didn't you just tell me what a smart, strong woman you are?"" She hemmed and hawed. ""I guess,"" she finally said, ""no one told me that that smart, strong image applies to sex."" I should probably say right up top that despite the hype, teenagers are not engaging in intercourse more often or at a younger age than they were 25 years ago. They are, however, engaging in other behavior. And when we ignore that, when we label that as ""not sex,"" that opens the door to risky behavior and disrespect. That's particularly true of oral sex, which teenagers consider to be less intimate than intercourse. Girls would tell me, ""it's no big deal,"" like they'd all read the same instruction manual — at least if boys were on the receiving end. Young women have lots of reasons for participating. It made them feel desired; it was a way to boost social status. Sometimes, it was a way to get out of an uncomfortable situation. As a freshman at a West Coast college said to me, ""A girl will give a guy a blow job at the end of the night because she doesn't want to have sex with him, and he expects to be satisfied. So, if I want him to leave and I don't want anything to happen ... "" I heard so many stories of girls performing one-sided oral sex that I started asking, ""What if every time you were alone with a guy, he told you to get him a glass of water from the kitchen, and he never got you a glass of water — or if he did, it was like ... 'you want me to uh ...?'"" You know, totally begrudging. You wouldn't stand for it. But it wasn't always that boys didn't want to. It was that girls didn't want them to. Girls expressed a sense of shame around their genitals. A sense that they were simultaneously icky and sacred. Women's feelings about their genitals have been directly linked to their enjoyment of sex. Yet, Debby Herbenick, a researcher at Indiana University, believes that girls' genital self-image is under siege, with more pressure than ever to see them as unacceptable in their natural state. According to research, about three-quarters of college women remove their pubic hair — all of it — at least on occasion, and more than half do so regularly. Girls would tell me that hair removal made them feel cleaner, that it was a personal choice. Though, I kind of wondered if left alone on a desert island, if this was how they would choose to spend their time. (Laughter) And when I pushed further, a darker motivation emerged: avoiding humiliation. ""Guys act like they would be disgusted by it,"" one young woman told me. ""No one wants to be talked about like that."" The rising pubic hair removal reminded me of the 1920s, when women first started regularly shaving their armpits and their legs. That's when flapper dresses came into style, and women's limbs were suddenly visible, open to public scrutiny. There's a way that I think that this too is a sign. That a girl's most intimate part is open to public scrutiny, open to critique, to becoming more about how it looks to someone else than how it feels to her. The shaving trend has sparked another rise in labiaplasty. Labiaplasty, which is the trimming of the inner and outer labia, is the fastest-growing cosmetic surgery among teenage girls. It rose 80 percent between 2014 and 2015, and whereas girls under 18 comprise two percent of all cosmetic surgeries, they are five percent of labiaplasty. The most sought-after look, incidentally, in which the outer labia appear fused like a clam shell, is called ... wait for it ... ""The Barbie."" (Groan) I trust I don't have to tell you that Barbie is a) made of plastic and b) has no genitalia. (Laughter) The labiaplasty trend has become so worrisome that the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has issued a statement on the procedure, which is rarely medically indicated, has not been proven safe and whose side effects include scarring, numbness, pain and diminished sexual sensation. Now, admittedly, and blessedly, the number of girls involved is still quite small, but you could see them as canaries in a coal mine, telling us something important about the way girls see their bodies. Sara McClelland, a psychologist at the University of Michigan, coined what is my favorite phrase ever in talking about all of this: ""Intimate justice."" That's the idea that sex has political, as well as personal implications, just like, who does the dishes in your house, or who vacuums the rug. And it raises similar issues about inequality, about economic disparity, violence, physical and mental health. Intimate justice asks us to consider who is entitled to engage in an experience. Who is entitled to enjoy it? Who is the primary beneficiary? And how does each partner define ""good enough""? Honestly, I think those questions are tricky and sometimes traumatic for adult women to confront, but when we're talking about girls, I just kept coming back to the idea that their early sexual experience shouldn't have to be something that they get over. In her work, McClelland found that young women were more likely than young men to use their partner's pleasure as a measure of their satisfaction. So they'd say things like, ""If he's sexually satisfied, then I'm sexually satisfied."" Young men were more likely to measure their satisfaction by their own orgasm. Young women also defined bad sex differently. In the largest ever survey ever conducted on American sexual behavior, they reported pain in their sexual encounters 30 percent of the time. They also used words like ""depressing,"" ""humiliating,"" ""degrading."" The young men never used that language. So when young women report sexual satisfaction levels that are equal to or greater than young men's — and they do in research — that can be deceptive. If a girl goes into an encounter hoping that it won't hurt, wanting to feel close to her partner and expecting him to have an orgasm, she'll be satisfied if those criteria are met. And there's nothing wrong with wanting to feel close to your partner, or wanting him to be happy, and orgasm isn't the only measure of an experience ... but absence of pain — that's a very low bar for your own sexual fulfillment. Listening to all of this and thinking about it, I began to realize that we performed a kind of psychological clitoridectomy on American girls. Starting in infancy, parents of baby boys are more likely to name all their body parts, at least they'll say, ""here's your pee-pee."" Parents of baby girls go right from navel to knees, and they leave this whole situation in here unnamed. (Laughter) There's no better way to make something unspeakable than not to name it. Then kids go into their puberty education classes and they learn that boys have erections and ejaculations, and girls have ... periods and unwanted pregnancy. And they see that internal diagram of a woman's reproductive system — you know, the one that looks kind of like a steer head — (Laughter) And it always grays out between the legs. So we never say vulva, we certainly never say clitoris. No surprise, fewer than half of teenage girls age 14 to 17 have ever masturbated. And then they go into their partnered experience and we expect that somehow they'll think sex is about them, that they'll be able to articulate their needs, their desires, their limits. It's unrealistic. Here's something, though. Girls' investment in their partner's pleasure remains regardless of the gender of the partner. So in same-sex encounters, the orgasm gap disappears. And young women climax at the same rate as men. Lesbian and bisexual girls would tell me that they felt liberated to get off the script — free to create an encounter that worked for them. Gay girls also challenged the idea of first intercourse as the definition of virginity. Not because intercourse isn't a big deal, but it's worth questioning why we consider this one act, which most girls associate with discomfort or pain, to be the line in the sand of sexual adulthood — so much more meaningful, so much more transformative than anything else. And it's worth considering how this is serving girls; whether it's keeping them safer from disease, coercion, betrayal, assault. Whether it's encouraging mutuality and caring; what it means about the way they see other sex acts; whether it's giving them more control over and joy in their experience, and what it means about gay teens, who can have multiple sex partners without heterosexual intercourse. So I asked a gay girl that I met, ""How'd you know you weren't a virgin anymore?"" She said she had to Google it. (Laughter) And Google wasn't sure. (Laughter) She finally decided that she wasn't a virgin anymore after she'd had her first orgasm with a partner. And I thought — whoa. What if just for a second we imagined that was the definition? Again, not because intercourse isn't a big deal — of course it is — but it isn't the only big deal, and rather than thinking about sex as a race to a goal, this helps us reconceptualize it as a pool of experiences that include warmth, affection, arousal, desire, touch, intimacy. And it's worth asking young people: who's really the more sexually experienced person? The one who makes out with a partner for three hours and experiments with sensual tension and communication, or the one who gets wasted at a party and hooks up with a random in order to dump their ""virginity"" before they get to college? The only way that shift in thinking can happen though is if we talk to young people more about sex — if we normalize those discussions, integrating them into everyday life, talking about those intimate acts in a different way — the way we mostly have changed in the way that we talk about women in the public realm. Consider a survey of 300 randomly chosen girls from a Dutch and an American university, two similar universities, talking about their early experience of sex. The Dutch girls embodied everything we say we want from our girls. They had fewer negative consequences, like disease, pregnancy, regret — more positive outcomes like being able to communicate with their partner, who they said they knew very well; preparing for the experience responsibly; enjoying themselves. What was their secret? The Dutch girls said that their doctors, teachers and parents talked to them candidly, from an early age, about sex, pleasure and the importance of mutual trust. What's more, while American parents weren't necessarily less comfortable talking about sex, we tend to frame those conversations entirely in terms or risk and danger, whereas Dutch parents talk about balancing responsibility and joy. I have to tell you, as a parent myself, that hit me hard, because I know, had I not delved into that research, I would have talked to my own child about contraception, about disease protection, about consent because I'm a modern parent, and I would have thought ... job well done. Now I know that's not enough. I also know what I hope for for our girls. I want them to see sexuality as a source of self-knowledge, creativity and communication, despite its potential risks. I want them to be able to revel in their bodies' sensuality without being reduced to it. I want them to be able to ask for what they want in bed, and to get it. I want them to be safe from unwanted pregnancy, disease, cruelty, dehumanization, violence. If they are assaulted, I want them to have recourse from their schools, their employers, the courts. It's a lot to ask, but it's not too much. As parents, teachers, advocates and activists, we have raised a generation of girls to have a voice, to expect egalitarian treatment in the home, in the classroom, in the workplace. Now it's time to demand that intimate justice in their personal lives as well. Thank you. (Applause)"	這十幾年來，我們一直參與着一場全國性的討論：校園性侵。毫無疑問——年青人應該在「你情我願」之前掂量下那幾條鐵則——這是極其重要的，但這時關於「性」的討論就止於秘而不宣了。在沒有相關「知識」的情況下，媒體和網路——在那虛擬世界的角落——正替我們「教育」着孩子們。如果我們真的想讓年青人在「性」方面既安全、又道德——當然，也很享受，如果我們真的想讓年青人在「性」方面既安全、又道德——當然，也很享受，那麽是時候對那句「好啊」之後發生的事進行開誠布公。這就包括打破最大的「忌諱」，以及向年青人說清楚女性的能力所在，以及獲得性快感的權利。對，是這樣。 （掌聲） 來吧，女士們。 （掌聲） 我與15到20歲的女生交談了三年，關於她們對「性」的態度和體驗。最後我發現年輕女孩們或許覺得自己對性行為有自主權，卻不一定覺得自己有享受的權利。拿這個在「常青藤」盟校的大學二年級女生來說吧，她告訴我，「我誕生於一個充滿女強人的家庭，我的祖母是有着火爆的脾氣，我的母親是一位專家，我和我的姐妹都是大嗓門，這些都展示了我們女人的力量。」她接着向我描述了她的性生活：一次次短暫的一夜之歡，始於她13歲的時候。那個……不怎麽負責任，不怎麽相互交流，甚至不怎麽令人享受。她聳了聳肩。「我猜我們女生就是要被調教成那些溫順的綿羊，不會表達自己的需求與渴望。」「等一等，」我說。「你不是剛告訴我你是一個多麽聰明，多麽堅強的女人嗎？」她支支吾吾。「我認為，」她最後說，「那種聰明、堅強的印象不一定也適用於『性』。」 我可能要直截了當地說，儘管媒體大肆宣傳，但是青少年們比起25年之前性活動並不更加頻繁，或者在更低的年齡偷嘗禁果。但是青少年們比起25年之前性活動並不更加頻繁，或者在更低的年齡偷嘗禁果。然而他們開始嘗試其他的行為。這些被我們忽略的，被我們標記為「與性無關」的東西，為青少年打開了一扇指向危險和違禮的門。一部分的矛頭指向口交，青少年們認為它不如性交那麽親密。女孩們會告訴我：「沒什麽大不了的。」，就好像她們都讀過同一本指導手冊一樣——至少，當男生是口交接受者時是這樣。年輕女孩們有很多理由去參與其中。它讓她們感到性興奮；它是一種提升社會地位的方式。有時，它是一種脫離不適感的方式。一位西海岸大學的一年級新生對我說，「一個女孩會在深夜為一個傢伙口交，是因為不願和他做愛，而且那個男孩應該會心滿意足。所以，如果我想讓他離開，並且不想發生什麽……」我聽過很多的女孩們進行單方面口交的敘述，這些讓我開始問道：「如果每次你單獨和一個傢伙在一起，他叫你幫他從廚房倒一杯水，但他永遠不會為你倒上一杯水——如果他這麽做了，那會是……『你想讓我，呃……？』」明白吧，毫不情願。你會受不了的。 然而，並不總是男生們自己不願意進行性交。而是女生們自己不願意與男生們做這樣的事。女孩為她們的生殖器感到羞恥，一種它雖骯髒，卻又神聖的感覺。女人對她們生殖器的看法直接與她們的性快感相關。然而，一位印第安納大學的研究員，Debby Herbenick 認為女孩對自己生殖器的印象正在不斷受到詆毀。承受着前所未有的壓力，認為自然狀態的性器官是不可接受的。根據研究，大約四分之三的大學女生剃除了她們的陰毛——所有的——剃陰毛的頻繁程度不低於“偶爾”，並且一半以上的人還經常這麽做。剃陰毛的頻繁程度不低於“偶爾”，並且一半以上的人還經常這麽做。女孩們告訴我：除毛讓她們更清潔，這是個私人的選擇。雖然，我有點想知道如果孤身一人被留在荒島上，這會不會就是她們消磨時間的活動？ （笑聲） 當我更深入地調查時，一個更陰暗的動機浮現了：避免羞恥感。“男生們表現得好像他們會被它噁心到，”一位年輕女生告訴我。“沒有人想被那樣指指點點。”剃除陰毛的流行讓我想起了1920年代，那時女人們第一次定期地剃除腋窩和腿部的毛髮。那也是直筒低腰連衣裙開始時髦的時候，女人們的肢體突然露出來了，進入了公眾的審視範圍。我有理由認為，這也是一個徵兆。一個女孩最親密的部位進入了公眾視野，置於輿論之中，別人對它的模樣的看法甚至變得比自己的感覺都更加重要。別人對它的模樣的看法甚至變得比自己的感覺都更加重要。 剃毛的風尚又導致了陰脣整形手術的興起。陰脣整形手術，能修剪內陰脣和外陰脣，是在年輕女孩們之中快速增長的整形手術。在2014到2015年之間，它增長了 80 %，18歲以下的女孩竟佔據所有例整形手術的 2 %。也是所有例陰脣整形手術的 5 %。順便一提，陰脣最受歡迎的模樣是，外陰脣合併着，看起來就像蛤殻一樣，它被稱為……等一下……“芭比”。 （哼哼聲） 我应该不用告诉你芭比娃娃，是用塑料做的。是沒有生殖器的。芭比娃娃，是用塑料做的。是沒有生殖器的。 （笑聲） 陰脣整容術的風潮令人如此擔憂以至於美國婦產科醫師協會對此發表了聲明：它在醫學上是幾乎是不必要的，且沒有被證明是安全的。並且它的副作用包括疤痕、麻木感、疼痛，以及被削弱的性感受。如今，不可否認地，同時也很幸運的是，被涉及的女孩還比较少。但是你能以她們为警示，她们告诉我们一些重要的信息，關於女孩如何看待她們身體的。 Sara McClelland,一位來自密西根大學的心理學家，在談論這些時，創造了一個至今我最喜歡的詞語：「性別間的合理性」。它意在說明「性別」具有權力相關的、以及私人性的影響，例如，「性別」決定了：在家中，誰是負責做飯的人誰是負責打掃衛生的人，等等。例如，「性別」決定了：在家中，誰是負責做飯的人誰是負責打掃衛生的人，等等。它也引起了相似的問題：不平等、經濟差距、暴力、生理和心理健康。「性別間的合理性」讓我們思考：是誰具有參與性活動的權利？是誰具有享受它的權利？又是誰成了主要的受益者？每一位伴侶是怎樣定義「足夠好」的？實話說，我認為這些問題很棘手，有時成年女性面對它們甚至也會很痛苦，實話說，我認為這些問題很棘手，有時成年女性面對它們甚至也會很痛苦，但當我們談及女孩們時，我腦海中總是響起一個聲音：她們對於「性」的經驗不一定非要在較年輕時獲得。 在 McClelland 的研究中，她發現年輕女人比起年輕男人更傾向於根據伴侶的快感來衡量她們自己的性滿意程度。所以她們會說這樣的話：「如果他獲得了性滿足，那麽我也獲得了性滿足。」年輕男人更傾向於用他們的性高潮來衡量他們的滿意程度。年輕女人們各自對於「糟糕的性經歷」也有着不同的定義。在至今最大的一場關於美國人的性行為的調查中，在至今最大的一場關於美國人的性行為的調查中，她們報告說在性接觸中30%的時間都在疼痛。她們報告說在性接觸中30%的時間都在疼痛。她們也用了這樣的詞來描述：「令人沮喪」「丟臉」「令人羞恥」。年輕男人絶不會使用這樣的詞語。所以當年輕女人報告說她們的性滿意程度與年輕男人相同甚至更高——她們也的確是如此報告的——這種結論是不靠譜的。如果一個女孩進行一次性接觸，並希望它不會令人疼痛，想要與她的伴侶更親近，並且希望他能經歷性高潮，如果以上條件都達到，她就會很滿意。想要與你的伴侶更親近，或者希望他開心，這些并沒有什麽問題。想要與你的伴侶更親近，或者希望他開心，這些并沒有什麽問題，性高潮也不是衡量一場性活動的唯一標準……但是想要無疼痛——這對於衡量你的「性滿足」是一個非常低的標準。 傾聽着這些報告，並加以思索，我開始意識到，我們在某種意義上對美國女孩們實施了心理上的陰蒂切除手術。我開始意識到，我們在某種意義上對美國女孩們實施了心理上的陰蒂切除手術。從出生開始，男孩們的父母更有可能會指出孩子們所有的身體器官的名稱——最後他們會說，「這是你的小鷄鷄。」女孩們的父母則會從肚臍直接到膝蓋，他們絲毫不會提及身體這一部位的名字。 （笑聲） 要讓某件事物不堪入耳，沒有比絲毫不提及它更好的方法了。要讓某件事物不堪入耳，沒有比絲毫不提及它更好的方法了。孩子們接下來開始了她們的青春期教育課，她們知道了男孩們有陰莖的勃起以及射精等現象，而女孩們則有……月經以及意外懷孕。她們看到女人的生殖系統的內部結構圖——明白吧，那個有點像公牛的頭部—— （笑聲） 結構圖中，雙腿之間總是模糊不清。因此我們說不出「外陰部」這種詞，也絶不會說「陰蒂」。毫不意外的是，在14至17歲之間的年輕女孩之中，只有一半不到的人曾經進行過自慰。在14至17歲之間的年輕女孩之中，只有一半不到的人曾經進行過自慰。接下來她們開始了與伴侶的性生活，但此時我們又希望她們能突然瞭解到，「性」與她們相關，希望她們能清楚地表達她們的需求，她們的慾望，她們的局限。這是不現實的。 然而，來聽聽這些吧。女孩為了讓她們的伴侶開心而投入的時間和精力不會因為伴侶的性別而改變。女孩為了讓她們的伴侶開心而投入的時間和精力不會因為伴侶的性別而改變。所以在女生之間的性活動中，「orgasm gap 高潮分別」消失了。年輕女人的性高潮頻率也與男人相同。同性戀和雙性戀女孩們會告訴我跳出常規讓她們感覺自由——能夠自由地開始令她們感覺良好的性接觸。同性戀女孩同樣也質疑將「處女狀態」與第一次性交相聯繫的觀念。同性戀女孩同樣也質疑將「處女狀態」與第一次性交相聯繫的觀念。并不是因為「性交」算不上什麽事，但是值得一問的是：對於這種讓大多數女孩們感到不適或者疼痛的行為，我們為什麽會認為它是成年人性生活的分水嶺——比起任何事物來都更加有意義，更具變化性。比起任何事物來都更加有意義，更具變化性。值得思考的是它是如何滿足女孩們的需要的；它是否讓她們生理健康，遠離疾病、脅迫、背叛與侵犯。它是否讓她們生理健康，遠離疾病、脅迫、背叛與侵犯。它是否促進了親密關係以及互相關照；她們看待其他性活動的方式又意味着什麽？它是否給了她們在性經歷中更多的主動權和樂趣？它是否給了她們在性經歷中更多的主動權和樂趣？對于那些同性戀青少年——她們可能有多個性伴侶，卻沒有異性間的性活動——這又意味着什麽？所以我問一個我認識的同性戀女孩：「你如何知道自己是否還擁有處子之身呢？」她說她還得問求助於谷歌搜索。 （笑聲） 並且谷歌也不能確定。 （笑聲） 在她與伴侶的第一次性高潮之後，她最終確定她不再是處女。而我想着——哇。如果我們短暫地想象一下，就一下下——「進行性交」就是「失去處子之身」的解釋？如果我們短暫地想象一下，就一下下——「進行性交」就是「失去處子之身」的解釋？再一次說明，并不是因為「性交」算不上什麽事——呃，它也算啦——但它算不上什麽大事，擯棄「『性』是一場奔向目標的賽跑」的想法，它幫助我們重構對於它的觀念，使它成為一些經歷的集合體，包括溫暖、鍾愛、欲火、渴望、觸摸、親密。值得向年輕人一問的是：誰才是真正地體驗着性活動的人？是一個與夥伴親吻愛撫了三個小時、體驗了肉體上的焦慮、肉體間的溝通的女孩？是一個與夥伴親吻愛撫了三個小時、體驗了肉體上的焦慮、肉體間的溝通的女孩，或者是一個在派對上酩酊大醉的、為了在進入大學前擺脫「處女」的標籤而相當隨意地進行性接觸的女孩？或者是一個在派對上酩酊大醉的、為了在進入大學前擺脫「處女」的標籤而相當隨意地進行性接觸的女孩？ 唯一能夠給思想觀念帶來改變的方法是：我們多和年青人談談有關「性」的事——如果我們使這些討論變得稀鬆平常，將它們融入日常生活中，以不一樣的方式來談論這些親密舉動——一種我們大多已經轉變的思維方式，一種我們在公共領域談論女性的方式。 看一下這份來自荷蘭和美國的大學的調查報告，它來自於隨機抽取的300個女孩。在兩所相似的大學，對女孩們早期的性經歷進行調查。荷蘭女孩身上體現出我們期待女孩們所具有的一切特質。她們受到更少的負面影響，比如疾病、懷孕、懊悔——以及更多的益處比如能夠與伴侶溝通，她們表示非常瞭解她們的伴侶；為性活動做好可靠的措施；享受其中。她們如此快樂的秘密是什麽？荷蘭女孩們說：從小時候開始，她們的醫生、老師和親人就坦誠地與她們交流關於性、快感以及互相信任的重要性。並且，與此相對的是，美國家長們在談論「性」時並不自然，我們傾向於完全用風險和危害來詆毀這些言論，我們傾向於完全用風險和危害來詆毀這些言論，荷蘭家長們則教導在責任和樂趣中取得平衡。我必須告訴你，我作為一個家長，這深深打擊了我，因為我知道，如果我沒有深入探究那項研究，我只會告訴我的孩子關於如何避孕、關於疾病的防護、關於同意男孩的要求，因為我是一名現代的家長，並且我會認為……我做得不錯。 現在我知道那是遠遠不夠的。我同樣也知道，對於我們的女孩子，我所期待的是什麽。我希望她們能夠把「性」看成自己的一面鏡子、創造力的來源、交流與溝通的助力。我希望她們能夠把「性」看成自己的一面鏡子、創造力的來源、交流與溝通的助力，儘管它有潛在的危險。我希望她們能夠陶醉在身體的激情之中,而不是被迫為之。我希望她們能夠陶醉在身體的激情之中,而不是被迫為之。我希望她們能夠在床上提出自己的索求，並且得到滿足。我希望她們能夠在床上提出自己的索求，並且得到滿足。我希望她們能夠安全地遠離意外懷孕、疾病、殘暴、人性的喪失、暴力。如果她們受到侵犯，我希望她們能夠獲得應有的支援——來自她們的學校、她們的僱主、或者來自法庭。還有很多要求，但也不算太多。 作為父母、老師、倡導者以及活動家，我們號召了這一代的女孩們爭取自己的發言權，在家庭中、教室裏、工作場所間，在家庭中、教室裏、工作場所間，都得到平等的對待，在家庭中、教室裏、工作場所間，都得到平等的對待，在，是時候提出要求了：私人生活中，她們也應擁有「性別間的合理性」的權利。 謝謝你。 （掌聲）
