Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_norvig_the_100_000_student_classroom	"Everyone is both a learner and a teacher. This is me being inspired by my first tutor, my mom, and this is me teaching Introduction to Artificial Intelligence to 200 students at Stanford University. Now the students and I enjoyed the class, but it occurred to me that while the subject matter of the class is advanced and modern, the teaching technology isn't. In fact, I use basically the same technology as this 14th-century classroom. Note the textbook, the sage on the stage, and the sleeping guy in the back. (Laughter) Just like today. So my co-teacher, Sebastian Thrun, and I thought, there must be a better way. We challenged ourselves to create an online class that would be equal or better in quality to our Stanford class, but to bring it to anyone in the world for free. We announced the class on July 29th, and within two weeks, 50,000 people had signed up for it. And that grew to 160,000 students from 209 countries. We were thrilled to have that kind of audience, and just a bit terrified that we hadn't finished preparing the class yet. (Laughter) So we got to work. We studied what others had done, what we could copy and what we could change. Benjamin Bloom had showed that one-on-one tutoring works best, so that's what we tried to emulate, like with me and my mom, even though we knew it would be one-on-thousands. Here, an overhead video camera is recording me as I'm talking and drawing on a piece of paper. A student said, ""This class felt like sitting in a bar with a really smart friend who's explaining something you haven't grasped, but are about to."" And that's exactly what we were aiming for. Now, from Khan Academy, we saw that short 10-minute videos worked much better than trying to record an hour-long lecture and put it on the small-format screen. We decided to go even shorter and more interactive. Our typical video is two minutes, sometimes shorter, never more than six, and then we pause for a quiz question, to make it feel like one-on-one tutoring. Here, I'm explaining how a computer uses the grammar of English to parse sentences, and here, there's a pause and the student has to reflect, understand what's going on and check the right boxes before they can continue. Students learn best when they're actively practicing. We wanted to engage them, to have them grapple with ambiguity and guide them to synthesize the key ideas themselves. We mostly avoid questions like, ""Here's a formula, now tell me the value of Y when X is equal to two."" We preferred open-ended questions. One student wrote, ""Now I'm seeing Bayes networks and examples of game theory everywhere I look."" And I like that kind of response. That's just what we were going for. We didn't want students to memorize the formulas; we wanted to change the way they looked at the world. And we succeeded. Or, I should say, the students succeeded. And it's a little bit ironic that we set about to disrupt traditional education, and in doing so, we ended up making our online class much more like a traditional college class than other online classes. Most online classes, the videos are always available. You can watch them any time you want. But if you can do it any time, that means you can do it tomorrow, and if you can do it tomorrow, well, you may not ever get around to it. (Laughter) So we brought back the innovation of having due dates. (Laughter) You could watch the videos any time you wanted during the week, but at the end of the week, you had to get the homework done. This motivated the students to keep going, and it also meant that everybody was working on the same thing at the same time, so if you went into a discussion forum, you could get an answer from a peer within minutes. Now, I'll show you some of the forums, most of which were self-organized by the students themselves. From Daphne Koller and Andrew Ng, we learned the concept of ""flipping"" the classroom. Students watched the videos on their own, and then they come together to discuss them. From Eric Mazur, I learned about peer instruction, that peers can be the best teachers, because they're the ones that remember what it's like to not understand. Sebastian and I have forgotten some of that. Of course, we couldn't have a classroom discussion with tens of thousands of students, so we encouraged and nurtured these online forums. And finally, from Teach For America, I learned that a class is not primarily about information. More important is motivation and determination. It was crucial that the students see that we're working hard for them and they're all supporting each other. Now, the class ran 10 weeks, and in the end, about half of the 160,000 students watched at least one video each week, and over 20,000 finished all the homework, putting in 50 to 100 hours. They got this statement of accomplishment. So what have we learned? Well, we tried some old ideas and some new and put them together, but there are more ideas to try. Sebastian's teaching another class now. I'll do one in the fall. Stanford Coursera, Udacity, MITx and others have more classes coming. It's a really exciting time. But to me, the most exciting part of it is the data that we're gathering. We're gathering thousands of interactions per student per class, billions of interactions altogether, and now we can start analyzing that, and when we learn from that, do experimentations, that's when the real revolution will come. And you'll be able to see the results from a new generation of amazing students. (Applause)"	"每個人都同時是學生和老師這是我被啟發自我的第一位老師我母親這是我在教認識人工智慧給200個學生在史丹佛大學 現在我的學生和我很享受這門課但我發現雖然這門課的主題很先進很現代但教學方法卻不然事實上，我用的教學方式基本上和這個14世紀的教室相同你看那本課本台上那位智者和教室後面睡覺的人（笑聲）跟目前上課狀態一樣 所以我的教學搭檔Sebastian Thrun和我認為一定有更好的方式我們挑戰自己創造線上教學跟史丹佛的課比在品質上相同或更好但卻可以讓世界上的人免費試聽 我們在7月29公告這門課2個禮拜內有5萬個人選這門課人數又成長為16萬人從209個國家我們非常開心有這樣的學生人數也有一點害怕因為我們還沒完全備完課（笑聲） 我們開始準備我們研究其他人的成果看看可以學什麼、改變什麼Benjamin Bloom的經驗顯示一對一教學成果最好因此我們試圖效仿就像我母親教我一樣即使我們知道其實是一對上千這個高架攝影機錄下我講課和在紙上畫圖的樣子 有一個學生覺得這堂課：""好像坐在酒吧跟一個很聰明的朋友他正在跟我解釋一些事我還沒搞懂，但快懂了。""而這正是我們希望達到的 從「可漢線上學院」我們發現短短10分鐘的影片效應會比1小時且畫面很小的錄影課程還好我們決定再縮短影片時間並且更互動化我們一般的影片2分鐘長有些更短，但不超過6分鐘然後我們停下來有段簡短的考試讓它更像一對一教學這裡，我們正在解釋電腦如何用英文文法分析語句，而這裡是段短暫的休息在下段課程開始之前讓學生反芻並了解剛剛的內容並勾選正確的選擇 學生學習效果最良好當他們不斷練習我們希望能讓他們參與解決不清楚的部分並指引他們自己去歸納重點我們盡量避免這樣的問題像：""這就是公式現在，當X是2時告訴我Y是多少""我們比較喜歡開放式問題 一個學生寫：""現在我到處都可看到貝氏網路和賽局理論的影子""我喜歡這樣的回應這正是我們努力的目標我們不希望學生死記方程式我們希望改變他們看世界的方式而我們也成功了或，我該說，學生成功了 這有一點諷刺我們原本想瓦解傳統教育而做著做著，我們最後使我們的線上課程跟其它的線上課程比更像大學的傳統課程大部分的線上課程影片是沒有時間限制的你隨時都可以看但如果你隨時都可以看表示你明天看也可以如果你明天看也可以那你可能永遠都不會去看了（笑聲） 所以我們重拾有期限的這個「新制度」（笑聲）你只能在這禮拜的任何時間看這些影片但在這禮拜結束前你必須要做完這些作業這不但促使學生繼續向前進這也意味每位學生都同時間在學習同樣的事情因此如果你到討論板上發問你可以在短時間內從同儕得到答案現在，我要給你看一些討論板它們大部分都是學生自己組織成立的 從Daphne Koller和Andrew Ng我們學到了讓教室氣氛熱烈的概念學生獨自看了影片之後他們聚在一起討論從Eric Mazur，我學到了同儕指導同學彼此是最好的老師因為他們知道學不懂的感覺是怎樣Sebastian和我已經忘記那種感覺了當然我沒有辦法在一間教室內讓成千上百的學生一同討論所以我們維護也鼓勵學生到線上討論區 最後，從「為美國而教」我學到教室並不只是學習資訊的地方更重要的是動力和決心我們必須讓學生知道我們盡全力在為他們努力而他們也都彼此支持 現在，這堂課已進行10個禮拜了最後，16萬學生中大約有一半每週至少看一部影片且超過2萬名學生完成所有作業花了他們將近50到100小時得到這張證書 所以，我們學到了什麼呢？我們試過一些舊和新的點子並將它們融合但還是有更多可以嘗試的方法Sebastian正在教另一堂課而我今年秋季也將有一堂課史丹佛和麻省理工學院的線上課程還將有更多新的課程這真是令人興奮的時刻 但對我而言，最棒的一部分來自我們所蒐集到的資料我們已蒐集到成千上萬每個學生在每堂課的互動全部加起來有數十億筆的互動資訊而我們可以開始分析並從中學習做實驗這才真正是革命來臨的時刻而從新一代、不可思議的學生身上你將會看到成果（掌聲）"
