Talk	en	zh-tw
peter_doolittle_how_your_working_memory_makes_sense_of_the_world	"So yesterday, I was out in the street in front of this building, and I was walking down the sidewalk, and I had company, several of us, and we were all abiding by the rules of walking down sidewalks. We're not talking each other. We're facing forward. We're moving. When the person in front of me slows down. And so I'm watching him, and he slows down, and finally he stops. Well, that wasn't fast enough for me, so I put on my turn signal, and I walked around him, and as I walked, I looked to see what he was doing, and he was doing this. He was texting, and he couldn't text and walk at the same time. Now we could approach this from a working memory perspective or from a multitasking perspective. We're going to do working memory today. Now, working memory is that part of our consciousness that we are aware of at any given time of day. You're going it right now. It's not something we can turn off. If you turn it off, that's called a coma, okay? So right now, you're doing just fine. Now working memory has four basic components. It allows us to store some immediate experiences and a little bit of knowledge. It allows us to reach back into our long-term memory and pull some of that in as we need it, mixes it, processes it in light of whatever our current goal is. Now the current goal isn't something like, I want to be president or the best surfer in the world. It's more mundane. I'd like that cookie, or I need to figure out how to get into my hotel room. Now working memory capacity is our ability to leverage that, our ability to take what we know and what we can hang onto and leverage it in ways that allow us to satisfy our current goal. Now working memory capacity has a fairly long history, and it's associated with a lot of positive effects. People with high working memory capacity tend to be good storytellers. They tend to solve and do well on standardized tests, however important that is. They're able to have high levels of writing ability. They're also able to reason at high levels. So what we're going to do here is play a little bit with some of that. So I'm going to ask you to perform a couple tasks, and we're going to take your  working memory out for a ride. You up for that? Okay. I'm going to give you five words, and I just want you to hang on to them. Don't write them down. Just hang on to them. Five words. While you're hanging on to them, I'm going to ask you to answer three questions. I want to see what happens with those words. So here's the words: tree, highway, mirror, Saturn and electrode. So far so good? Okay. What I want you to do is I want you to tell me what the answer is to 23 times eight. Just shout it out. (Mumbling) (Laughter) In fact it's — (Mumbling) — exactly. (Laughter) All right. I want you to take out your left hand and I want you to go, ""One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10."" It's a neurological test, just in case you were wondering. All right, now what I want you to do is to recite the last five letters of the English alphabet backwards. You should have started with Z. (Laughter) All right. How many people here are still pretty sure you've got all five words? Okay. Typically we end up with about less than half, right, which is normal. There will be a range. Some people can hang on to five. Some people can hang on to 10. Some will be down to two or three. What we know is this is really important to the way we function, right? And it's going to be really important here at TED because you're going to be exposed to so many different ideas. Now the problem that we have is that life comes at us, and it comes at us very quickly, and what we need to do is to take that amorphous flow of experience and somehow extract meaning from it with a working memory that's about the size of a pea. Now don't get me wrong, working memory is awesome. Working memory allows us to investigate our current experience as we move forward. It allows us to make sense of the world around us. But it does have certain limits. Now working memory is great for allowing us to communicate. We can have a conversation, and I can build a narrative around that so I know where we've been and where we're going and how to contribute to this conversation. It allows us to problem-solve, critical think. We can be in the middle of a meeting, listen to somebody's presentation, evaluate it, decide whether or not we like it, ask follow-up questions. All of that occurs within working memory. It also allows us to go to the store and allows us to get milk and eggs and cheese when what we're really looking for is Red Bull and bacon. (Laughter) Gotta make sure we're getting what we're looking for. Now, a central issue with working memory is that it's limited. It's limited in capacity, limited in duration, limited in focus. We tend to remember about four things. Okay? It used to be seven, but with functional MRIs, apparently it's four, and we were overachieving. Now we can remember those four things for about 10 to 20 seconds unless we do something with it, unless we process it, unless we apply it to something, unless we talk to somebody about it. When we think about working memory, we have to realize that this limited capacity has lots of different impacts on us. Have you ever walked from one room to another and then forgotten why you're there? You do know the solution to that, right? You go back to that original room. (Laughter) Have you ever forgotten your keys? You ever forgotten your car? You ever forgotten your kids? Have you ever been involved in a conversation, and you realize that the conversation to your left is actually more interesting? (Laughter) So you're nodding and you're smiling, but you're really paying attention to this one over here, until you hear that last word go up, and you realize, you've been asked a question. (Laughter) And you're really hoping the answer is no, because that's what you're about to say. All of that talks about working memory, what we can do and what we can't do. We need to realize that working memory has a limited capacity, and that working memory capacity itself is how we negotiate that. We negotiate that through strategies. So what I want to do is talk a little bit about a couple of strategies here, and these will be really important because you are now in an information target-rich environment for the next several days. Now the first part of this that we need to think about and we need to process our existence, our life, immediately and repeatedly. We need to process what's going on the moment it happens, not 10 minutes later, not a week later, at the moment. So we need to think about, well, do I agree with him? What's missing? What would I like to know? Do I agree with the assumptions? How can I apply this in my life? It's a way of processing what's going on so that we can use it later. Now we also need to repeat it. We need to practice. So we need to think about it here. In between, we want to talk to people about it. We're going to write it down, and when you get home, pull out those notes and think about them and end up practicing over time. Practice for some reason became a very negative thing. It's very positive. The next thing is, we need to think elaboratively and we need to think illustratively. Oftentimes, we think that we have to relate new knowledge to prior knowledge. What we want to do is spin that around. We want to take all of our existence and wrap it around that new knowledge and make all of these connections and it becomes more meaningful. We also want to use imagery. We are built for images. We need to take advantage of that. Think about things in images, write things down that way. If you read a book, pull things up. I just got through reading ""The Great Gatsby,"" and I have a perfect idea of what he looks like in my head, so my own version. The last one is organization and support. We are meaning-making machines. It's what we do. We try to make meaning out of everything that happens to us. Organization helps, so we need to structure what we're doing in ways that make sense. If we are providing knowledge and experience, we need to structure that. And the last one is support. We all started as novices. Everything we do is an approximation of sophistication. We should expect it to change over time. We have to support that. The support may come in asking people questions, giving them a sheet of paper that has an organizational chart on it or has some guiding images, but we need to support it. Now, the final piece of this, the take-home message from a working memory capacity standpoint is this: what we process, we learn. If we're not processing life, we're not living it. Live life. Thank you. (Applause)"	"昨天呢，我出去走在這幢樓前的大街上。我在人行道上和幾個朋友同行。我們都很守規矩地走在行人專用道上。我們什麼也不說，就是向前走。就這樣往前走。走在我前面的人突然減慢了速度。我看見他放慢了速度，然後停下了。然後我很快就趕上他了。正好我要在街角轉彎，我就繞過他走。我一邊走，一邊看他在做什麼。他就是這樣。他在發簡訊，因為他不可能一邊走路一邊打字。現在我們可以從工作記憶的角度或從多工處理的角度來看這件事。我們今天要講的就是工作記憶的問題。 現在，工作記憶是每天任何一個有意識的片斷裡我們自我認知的一部分。你現在就有工作記憶。我們不可能隨時關閉它。你要是把它關閉了，那就叫昏迷，對不對?所以，你們現在都做得挺好。 工作記憶有四個基本元素。它使我們能夠存儲一些很直接的體驗和很少的一部分知識。它允許我們去追溯我們的長期記憶找到我們需要的，進行組合和處理，這主要取決於我們的當前動機是什麼。那麼當前動機不是像我想要當總統或是做世界最佳衝浪手這樣的動機。它更世俗化，比如我要吃那塊餅乾，或者我要找到今晚住宿的酒店。工作記憶的能力是我們能夠利用記憶的能力，是我們利用知識的能力。我們可以依賴，可以利用工作記憶能力來滿足我們的當前目標。 工作記憶能力有相當長的歷史它能帶來很多積極效應。工作記憶能力強的人一般會很擅長講故事。他們一般很善於應付標準化測試，不管是多麼重要的考試。他們很善於寫作。他們善於提出深層次的問題。 那麼這裡呢，我們來做個工作記憶能力的小遊戲。我會讓你們完成兩個任務，帶你們的工作記憶出來兜兜風。你們想玩兒吧？好！ 我會給你們五個詞，我要你們記住這些詞，不是把它們寫下來，而是用腦子記住它們。五個詞。你記著它們的同時，還要回答我三個問題。我想看看你們記這五個詞記得怎麼樣好吧，這五個詞是：樹，公路，鏡子，土星和電極。沒問題吧？好！現在我要你們回答我的問題，23乘以8是多少。喊出來就行。(喃喃自語)（笑聲）事實上它等於 — — (喃喃自語) — — 完全正確。（笑聲）好吧。那現在我要你們伸出你的左手，你們要數：「一、二、三、四、五、六、 七、 八、 九，十""。它是一個神經功能測試，如果你想知道。好吧，我現在要你們倒著讀出來英語字母表中的最後五個字母。要從 Z 開始讀。（笑聲） 好吧。這裡有多少人還記得我剛才給出的那五個單詞？好吧。通常會有不到一半的人還記得。沒錯，這是很正常的。就是這麼個範圍。有些人可以記住五個。有些人可以記住十個。有的人只能記住兩三個。 我們知道，這個對大腦功能確實很有用，對吧？這個在 TED 尤其重要，因為你會接觸到很多不同的想法。 現在我們的問題是我們迎面而來的生活，它來得非常快。我們需要做的是收集那些模糊的體驗，然後用工作記憶來提煉它的意義所在。差不多一個豌豆大小。別搞錯，工作記憶是很不簡單的。它允許我們在繼續前行時檢視我們當前的體驗。它讓我們理解我們周圍的世界。但它確實是有極限的。 工作記憶讓我們能夠和人交流。我們可以談話，我可以通過敘述來說明我們講到甚麼地方了，要說什麼以及怎麼說。它讓我們解決問題，慎重思考。我們可能在一個會議期間，聽別人的發言，評價它，決定我們是否喜歡它，然後提出問題。所有這一切都是在工作記憶的範疇裡。它讓我們去商店買牛奶、雞蛋和乳酪，當我們真正想買的是紅牛飲料和培根時。（笑聲）要確保我們知道我們要找的是什麼。現在，短期記憶的一個主要問題是它的局限性。它的能力和時長都是有局限的。它的聚焦點也有局限。我們一般可以記住四件事情。對吧？以前說是七件，但用功能性核磁共振成像檢測，其實是四件我們以前是逞強了。現在我們在大約10到20秒時間內可以記住四件事，除非我們利用它，處理它，應用它，討論它。 我們談到工作記憶的時候我們需要意識到它的局限性對我們的影響。你以前有沒有從一個房間走到另個房間突然忘了你要幹什麼？你知道怎麼解決這樣的事，對吧？你就回到原來的那個房間去想想。（笑聲）你曾經忘記過你的鑰匙吧？你曾經忘記過你的車嗎?你曾經忘記過你的孩子吧？你有沒有在聊天時，意識到你左邊那人的談話其實更有趣？（笑聲）嗯，你在點頭，你在笑，你一直很專心地聽我講直到你聽到我說的最後一個字音調升高，你才意識到，我是在問你一個問題。（笑聲）然後你們希望答案是否定的。因為那是你要說的。我們講的就是這些工作記憶，我們能做什麼，不能做什麼。我們必須認識到工作記憶的能力是有限的。工作記憶的能力在於我們怎麼平衡它。我們通過一些策略來平衡。 我現在想講的就是兩個策略。這兩個確實很重要。因為接下來的幾天你將處在一個資訊爆炸的環境裡。首先我們需要思考我們需要整理我們的體驗，迅速地和反復地。我們需要處理正在發生的事情就在當下，而不是十分鐘後，更不是一週後，就在當下。我們需要考慮，嗯，我同意他嗎？不足的地方有那些？我想知道有哪些？我同意這個假設嗎？我怎麼把它用到我這兒？我們就這麼處理正在發生的事情然後就可以利用它。那麼，我們還需要重複它，需要實踐。所以需要不斷琢磨它。同時需要和別人談論它。回家後還要寫下它。然後拿出那些記錄，再考慮考慮它。就這樣結束記憶的訓練。為某些原因而重複記憶是一件非常被動的事。但它其實有非常積極的意義。 下一件事就是，我們需要考慮如何精煉和如何闡述我們的記憶很多時候，我們將新知識和舊知識聯繫起來。把它們融會貫通。我們想要把所有我們舊的體驗都圍繞著新的知識展開，讓新舊知識融合在一起使它變得更有意義。我們還需要運用圖像。人類對圖像天生敏感。我們需要利用這一點。思考圖像裡面的事實，把它記下來。如果你在讀一本書，從裡面提煉出想要的東西我以前通讀過《偉大的蓋茨比》，我很清楚地知道他是怎樣的人。在我的腦海裡，我有我自己的看法。 最後一個就是組織和支援。人天生喜歡追尋意義。我們做的也就是這個。我們努力從任何事情中尋求意義所在。大腦的組織整理功能説明我們，所以我們要讓做的事情更加合情合理。如果我們提供知識和經驗，就需要去構建它。 最後一個是支援。我們都是從初學者起步的。我們做的一切都是一點點趨向成熟。這就需要時間使我們成熟起來。我們需要支援體系。這個支援體系通過問人們問題，給他們有表格的紙張，或一些提示性圖片，我們需要這樣的支援體系。 現在，最後我要說的就是從工作記憶能力的角度來看是這樣的：我們整理思考什麼資訊，就學習什麼。我們不整理思考人生，我們就是行屍走肉。過好你的人生。謝謝。 （掌聲）"
