Talk	en	zh-tw
philip_evans_how_data_will_transform_business	"I'm going to talk a little bit about strategy and its relationship with technology. We tend to think of business strategy as being a rather abstract body of essentially economic thought, perhaps rather timeless. I'm going to argue that, in fact, business strategy has always been premised on assumptions about technology, that those assumptions are changing, and, in fact, changing quite dramatically, and that therefore what that will drive us to is a different concept of what we mean by business strategy. Let me start, if I may, with a little bit of history. The idea of strategy in business owes its origins to two intellectual giants: Bruce Henderson, the founder of BCG, and Michael Porter, professor at the Harvard Business School. Henderson's central idea was what you might call the Napoleonic idea of concentrating mass against weakness, of overwhelming the enemy. What Henderson recognized was that, in the business world, there are many phenomena which are characterized by what economists would call increasing returns — scale, experience. The more you do of something, disproportionately the better you get. And therefore he found a logic for investing in such kinds of overwhelming mass in order to achieve competitive advantage. And that was the first introduction of essentially a military concept of strategy into the business world. Porter agreed with that premise, but he qualified it. He pointed out, correctly, that that's all very well, but businesses actually have multiple steps to them. They have different components, and each of those components might be driven by a different kind of strategy. A company or a business might actually be advantaged in some activities but disadvantaged in others. He formed the concept of the value chain, essentially the sequence of steps with which a, shall we say, raw material, becomes a component, becomes assembled into a finished product, and then is distributed, for example, and he argued that advantage accrued to each of those components, and that the advantage of the whole was in some sense the sum or the average of that of its parts. And this idea of the value chain was predicated on the recognition that what holds a business together is transaction costs, that in essence you need to coordinate, organizations are more efficient at coordination than markets, very often, and therefore the nature and role and boundaries of the cooperation are defined by transaction costs. It was on those two ideas, Henderson's idea of increasing returns to scale and experience, and Porter's idea of the value chain, encompassing heterogenous elements, that the whole edifice of business strategy was subsequently erected. Now what I'm going to argue is that those premises are, in fact, being invalidated. First of all, let's think about transaction costs. There are really two components to transaction costs. One is about processing information, and the other is about communication. These are the economics of processing and communicating as they have evolved over a long period of time. As we all know from so many contexts, they have been radically transformed since the days when Porter and Henderson first formulated their theories. In particular, since the mid-'90s, communications costs have actually been falling even faster than transaction costs, which is why communication, the Internet, has exploded in such a dramatic fashion. Now, those falling transaction costs have profound consequences, because if transaction costs are the glue that hold value chains together, and they are falling, there is less to economize on. There is less need for vertically integrated organization, and value chains at least can break up. They needn't necessarily, but they can. In particular, it then becomes possible for a competitor in one business to use their position in one step of the value chain in order to penetrate or attack or disintermediate the competitor in another. That is not just an abstract proposition. There are many very specific stories of how that actually happened. A poster child example was the encyclopedia business. The encyclopedia business in the days of leatherbound books was basically a distribution business. Most of the cost was the commission to the salesmen. The CD-ROM and then the Internet came along, new technologies made the distribution of knowledge many orders of magnitude cheaper, and the encyclopedia industry collapsed. It's now, of course, a very familiar story. This, in fact, more generally was the story of the first generation of the Internet economy. It was about falling transaction costs breaking up value chains and therefore allowing disintermediation, or what we call deconstruction. One of the questions I was occasionally asked was, well, what's going to replace the encyclopedia when Britannica no longer has a business model? And it was a while before the answer became manifest. Now, of course, we know what it is: it's the Wikipedia. Now what's special about the Wikipedia is not its distribution. What's special about the Wikipedia is the way it's produced. The Wikipedia, of course, is an encyclopedia created by its users. And this, in fact, defines what you might call the second decade of the Internet economy, the decade in which the Internet as a noun became the Internet as a verb. It became a set of conversations, the era in which user-generated content and social networks became the dominant phenomenon. Now what that really meant in terms of the Porter-Henderson framework was the collapse of certain kinds of economies of scale. It turned out that tens of thousands of autonomous individuals writing an encyclopedia could do just as good a job, and certainly a much cheaper job, than professionals in a hierarchical organization. So basically what was happening was that one layer of this value chain was becoming fragmented, as individuals could take over where organizations were no longer needed. But there's another question that obviously this graph poses, which is, okay, we've gone through two decades — does anything distinguish the third? And what I'm going to argue is that indeed something does distinguish the third, and it maps exactly on to the kind of Porter-Henderson logic that we've been talking about. And that is, about data. If we go back to around 2000, a lot of people were talking about the information revolution, and it was indeed true that the world's stock of data was growing, indeed growing quite fast. but it was still at that point overwhelmingly analog. We go forward to 2007, not only had the world's stock of data exploded, but there'd been this massive substitution of digital for analog. And more important even than that, if you look more carefully at this graph, what you will observe is that about a half of that digital data is information that has an I.P. address. It's on a server or it's on a P.C. But having an I.P. address means that it can be connected to any other data that has an I.P. address. It means it becomes possible to put together half of the world's knowledge in order to see patterns, an entirely new thing. If we run the numbers forward to today, it probably looks something like this. We're not really sure. If we run the numbers forward to 2020, we of course have an exact number, courtesy of IDC. It's curious that the future is so much more predictable than the present. And what it implies is a hundredfold multiplication in the stock of information that is connected via an I.P. address. Now, if the number of connections that we can make is proportional to the number of pairs of data points, a hundredfold multiplication in the quantity of data is a ten-thousandfold multiplication in the number of patterns that we can see in that data, this just in the last 10 or 11 years. This, I would submit, is a sea change, a profound change in the economics of the world that we live in. The first human genome, that of James Watson, was mapped as the culmination of the Human Genome Project in the year 2000, and it took about 200 million dollars and about 10 years of work to map just one person's genomic makeup. Since then, the costs of mapping the genome have come down. In fact, they've come down in recent years very dramatically indeed, to the point where the cost  is now below 1,000 dollars, and it's confidently predicted that by the year 2015 it will be below 100 dollars — a five or six order of magnitude drop in the cost of genomic mapping in just a 15-year period, an extraordinary phenomenon. Now, in the days when mapping a genome cost millions, or even tens of thousands, it was basically a research enterprise. Scientists would gather some representative people, and they would see patterns, and they would try and make generalizations about human nature and disease from the abstract patterns they find from these particular selected individuals. But when the genome can  be mapped for 100 bucks, 99 dollars while you wait, then what happens is, it becomes retail. It becomes above all clinical. You go the doctor with a cold, and if he or she hasn't done it already, the first thing they do is map your genome, at which point what they're now doing is not starting from some abstract  knowledge of genomic medicine and trying to work out how it applies to you, but they're starting from your particular genome. Now think of the power of that. Think of where that takes us when we can combine genomic data with clinical data with data about drug interactions with the kind of ambient data that devices like our phone and medical sensors will increasingly be collecting. Think what happens when we collect all of that data and we can put it together in order to find patterns we wouldn't see before. This, I would suggest, perhaps it will take a while, but this will drive a revolution in medicine. Fabulous, lots of people talk about this. But there's one thing that doesn't get much attention. How is that model of colossal sharing across all of those kinds of databases compatible with the business models of institutions and organizations and corporations that are involved in this business today? If your business is based on proprietary data, if your competitive advantage is defined by your data, how on Earth is that company or is that society in fact going to achieve the value that's implicit in the technology? They can't. So essentially what's happening here, and genomics is merely one example of this, is that technology is driving the natural scaling of the activity beyond the institutional boundaries within which we have been used to thinking about it, and in particular beyond the institutional boundaries in terms of which business strategy as a discipline is formulated. The basic story here is that what used to be vertically integrated, oligopolistic competition among essentially similar kinds of competitors is evolving, by one means or another, from a vertical structure to a horizontal one. Why is that happening? It's happening because transaction costs are plummeting and because scale is polarizing. The plummeting of transaction costs weakens the glue that holds value chains together, and allows them to separate. The polarization of scale economies towards the very small — small is beautiful — allows for scalable communities to substitute for conventional corporate production. The scaling in the opposite direction, towards things like big data, drive the structure of business towards the creation of new kinds of institutions that can achieve that scale. But either way, the typically vertical structure gets driven to becoming more horizontal. The logic isn't just about big data. If we were to look, for example, at the telecommunications industry, you can tell the same story about fiber optics. If we look at the pharmaceutical industry, or, for that matter, university research, you can say exactly the same story about so-called ""big science."" And in the opposite direction, if we look, say, at the energy sector, where all the talk is about how households will be efficient producers of green energy and efficient conservers of energy, that is, in fact, the reverse phenomenon. That is the fragmentation of scale because the very small can substitute for the traditional corporate scale. Either way, what we are driven to is this horizontalization of the structure of industries, and that implies fundamental changes in how we think about strategy. It means, for example, that we need to think about strategy as the curation of these kinds of horizontal structure, where things like business definition and even industry definition are actually the outcomes of strategy, not something that the strategy presupposes. It means, for example, we need to work out how to accommodate collaboration and competition simultaneously. Think about the genome. We need to accommodate the very large and the very small simultaneously. And we need industry structures that will accommodate very, very different motivations, from the amateur motivations of people in communities to maybe the social motivations of infrastructure built by governments, or, for that matter, cooperative institutions built by companies that are otherwise competing, because that is the only way that they can get to scale. These kinds of transformations render the traditional premises  of business strategy obsolete. They drive us into a completely new world. They require us, whether we are in the public sector or the private sector, to think very fundamentally differently about the structure of business, and, at last, it makes strategy interesting again. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想談一下策略以及它和科技的關聯我們普遍認為商業策略只是經濟思維中的一個抽象的概念可能是歷久彌新的我想要反駁這個論點實際上商業策略總是以科技的假設為前提而那些假設時常變動事實上是相當劇烈地變動而這些假設將我們導向一個和原來的商業策略不同的方向 請容許我以一小段歷史開始說明在商業上，策略這個概念源自於兩位絕頂的巨擘波士頓諮詢公司的創辦人布魯斯．亨德森以及哈佛商學院的教授麥可·波特亨德森的中心理論你可以稱之為大規模專注對付弱勢並壓制了敵人的拿破崙戰略亨德森所認為的是在商業領域有許多被經濟學者視為報酬遞增的現象如規模或經驗你付出越多你就會得到越好的報酬因此，他發現一個邏輯來投資這樣壓倒性的數量以達成競爭上的優勢而那是第一次有人將軍事上的戰略應用到商場 波特同意這樣的假設並且將此其合格化他提出，正確地說，該假設很好但是商業應用上還有更多的步驟他們有不同的組成要素而每一項要素可能由不同的策略所引導一家公司可能在某些活動上佔優勢但在其他活動卻是弱勢他提出價值鏈這個概念指出一連串的步驟我們可以舉例，從一個原材料變成零組件裝配成最終產品直到配送波特主張每個零組件所產生的利益和完整產品的利益可以是總和或是所有料件的平均而這個價值鏈的想法被認為是承認了構成商業的是交易成本在本質上，你必須去協調通常來說，組織比市場更能有效地調整因而這種合作的本質、角色和分界正是被交易成本所定義這兩種想法亨德森對報酬遞增的規模和經驗以及波特的價值鏈的想法包含異質的要素其後豎立起整個商業策略的體系 現在，我所主張的是事實上這些假設前提，是不成立的首先，讓我們思考一下交易成本交易成本含有兩種要素其一是資訊處理，另一種是溝通這是發展已久的資訊處理以及溝通的經濟圖形如同我們從許多文本所知自從波特和亨德森首次將他們的理論進行系統性的整理資訊處理和溝通已被完全地轉變尤其是，在90年代中期溝通成本已經大幅下降降低的速度甚至快於交易成本那也就是為什麼網路溝通爆發而大盛其道現在，那些降低的交易成本有了意義深遠的影響假如交易成本是將價值鏈串聯的要件當交易成本下降可節省空間就越少組織做垂直整合的必要性也越小而價值鏈能夠打破他們並非必要，但可以尤其在商業上一個競爭者可能利用他們在價值鏈上的位置為了滲透或是攻擊競爭對手或略過其通路 這不只是一個理論上的主張而是有許多確切的故事真實地發生如一個典型代表，百科全書在過去裝訂書籍的年代那基本上是一種經銷業大部分的成本是銷售員的佣金CD-ROM和網路來臨之後新的科技大幅地削弱原有的經銷知識百科全書產業因而瓦解當然，這是一個熟知的故事事實上，在網路經濟的第一個世代這樣的故事更加普遍降低的交易成本打破了價值鏈因此造成「去中介化」或是我們所稱通路的「解構」 其中一個我偶爾會問的問題是當大英（百科全書）的商業模式不再有效什麼將取代百科全書？這個答案花了點時間才變得明顯現在，當然我們知道是 - 維基百科維基百科特別的不是它的配銷而是它是如何產生的當然，維基百科是由它的使用者所建立的事實上，這定義了你可能稱之為網路經濟的第二個十年在這個十年，「網路」從一個名詞變成一個動詞它變成一組對話在這個時代，使用者生成內容和社群網路變成主流現象他們所真正代表的是就波特和亨德森的架構來說代表着某種規模經濟的瓦解它轉變成數以千計自主的個人來撰寫百科全書就能將這份工作做好而且比在一個階級組織結構內的專家們更便宜的方式所以基本上所發生的是價值鏈的一層變得破碎也就是個人能夠取代一些不再需要組織的工作 但從這張圖上可以明顯地看出這裡有一個問題我們已經渡過兩個十年但有任何方式可以區別第三個十年嗎？而我將主張的是確實，某些事情區別了它而且和我們所談論的波特和亨德森的邏輯不謀而合而那就是，資料如果我們回到2000年很多人當時正在談論資訊革命而確實整個世界的資料量正在成長而且是相當快速地成長但在當時仍然是類比資料為主當我們走到2007年不只是世界的資料量大增而且類比資料大規模地被數位資料所取代更重要的是如果你更仔細地看這張圖你會發現將近一半的數位資料屬於可對應到I.P.位址的資訊儲存在伺服器或是個人電腦上然而，可對應到I.P.位址代表這個資料也能夠被連結到另一個擁有I.P.位址的資料這代表著未來將可能結合世界一半的知識以歸納出模式以及新的事物如果我們把時間軸移動到今天那麼圖形看起來會像這樣但我們並不完全確定如果我們把時間軸移動到2020年承蒙IDC的資料，我們會得到一個確切的數字很不可思議地，未來的情況比現在更容易預測而這張圖意味著透過I.P.位址的串連資訊的數量將以百倍增加 現在，如果這些連結的數量和單一資料點成正比那麼增加百倍的資料量代表我們在該資料可以看到模式將以萬倍的方式增加而這僅發生在過去10或11年間我認為這是一個巨變在我們生活的世界中一項經濟上全然的改變 詹姆斯·沃森，人類第一對基因組在2000年人類基因組計劃全盛期被成功配對而這花費了2億美元以及將近10年的時間而這只是一個人的基因組自此之後，配對基因組的成本已經下跌事實上，近幾年的成本劇烈地下跌成本至今已經低於1000美元而且預估確信在2015年之前將會低於100美元一個五或六數量級的下跌在基因組配對的成本上只花了15年的時間這是個相當驚人的現象在過去配對一組基因組需花費百萬或甚至是上億元它基本上是一種研究機構科學家集結一些代表性人物他們發現模式嘗試歸結人類身體本質和疾病從抽象的模式中，或從篩選出來的個體中但是當基因組能靠100美元或是99美元就能進行配對那麼將發生的是，它變成零售業它是超乎臨床經驗的當你因為感冒而去看醫生在他還沒做任何診斷之前第一件事就是配對你的基因組相較於現在的醫生所做新的療程並非從抽象的基因醫學知識在你身上嘗試是否有效而是你自身特殊的基因組開始診斷現在讓我們想想這個力量想想它將帶我們往哪個方向當我們可以結合基因組資料、臨床資料、藥物反應的相關資料以及透過手機或醫療晶片等設備取得的資料將被大量地蒐集想想看如果我們蒐集了這些資料將他們結合在一起來找到我們過去從未見過的模式或許還需要一些時間，但這就是我所認為的醫學上的革命很棒對吧！很多人都在談論這個 但有件事不太引人注意這些資料庫彼此之間大量地分享這樣的模式將如何和現在的組織或公司內的商業模式相容呢？如果你的生意是基於私有的資料如果你的競爭優勢是由你的資料所定義公司或社會如何去達到隱含在科技的價值？他們不能 所以實質上正在發生的是而基因組學只是其中一個例子科技正在促使制度的界線超越我們過去思考的尤其是超越制度的界線即商業策略如同一學科般被論證這個故事是過去垂直整合的和相似競爭者的寡占競爭逐漸發展無論如何從垂直的結構變成水平的為什麼這會發生？之所以發生是因為交易成本暴跌且規模兩極化交易成本的暴跌弱化了價值鏈的連結使得價值鏈分離規模經濟的兩極化傾向極小化使得靈活的團體得以取代傳統的企業生產在尺規的另一端例如巨量資料促使商業結構傾向發展新形態且能夠達到規模的機構但無論如何，典型的垂直結構將變得更水平 這個邏輯不只適用於巨量資料如果我們以電信業為例光纖有相同的故事如果我們觀察製藥工程或是大學研究甚至是關於「大科學」你仍然可以講相同的故事而在相對的方向如果我們舉能源部門為例大部份的談論都是關於家庭如何成為有效地生產綠能以及有效地節約能源事實上，這相反的現象是規模的分裂因為極小規模的形態能夠取代傳統的企業規模 無論如何，我們被驅使走向產業結構的扁平化而這意味著基礎的改變和我們如何思考策略這意味著我們在思考策略時必須像策展般以水平的結構來思考商業定義甚至是產業定義其實是策略的結果而不是策略的假設前提這代表我們必須發想出如何同時適應合作與競爭想想看基因組我們必須同時適應極大和極小而且我們需要產業結構適應非常不同的刺激從業餘的、來自社群的刺激到政府建立基礎建設的社會刺激或者，合作而不競爭的企業組織因為這是他們達到規模的唯一途徑 這樣的轉化廢棄了傳統的商業策略假設驅使我們進入嶄新的世界他們促使我們無論在公領域或私領域從根本上地顛覆對商業結構的思考 至少，這讓策略重新變得有趣 謝謝 （鼓掌）
