Talk	en	zh-tw
pia_mancini_how_to_upgrade_democracy_for_the_internet_era	"I have the feeling that we can all agree that we're moving towards a new model of the state and society. But, we're absolutely clueless as to what this is or what it should be. It seems like we need to have a conversation about democracy in our day and age. Let's think about it this way: We are 21st-century citizens, doing our very, very best to interact with 19th century-designed institutions that are based on an information technology of the 15th century. Let's have a look at some of the characteristics of this system. First of all, it's designed for an information technology that's over 500 years old. And the best possible system that could be designed for it is one where the few make daily decisions in the name of the many. And the many get to vote once every  couple of years. In the second place, the costs of participating in this system are incredibly high. You either have to have a fair  bit of money and influence, or you have to devote your entire life to politics. You have to become a party member and slowly start working up the ranks until maybe, one day, you'll get  to sit at a table where a decision is being made. And last but not least, the language of the system — it's incredibly cryptic. It's done for lawyers, by lawyers, and no one else can understand. So, it's a system where we can choose our authorities, but we are completely left out on how those authorities reach their decisions. So, in a day where a new information technology allows us to participate globally in any conversation, our barriers of information are completely lowered and we can, more than ever before, express our desires and our concerns. Our political system remains the same for the past 200 years and expects us to be contented with being  simply passive recipients of a monologue. So, it's really not surprising that this kind of system is only able to produce two kinds of results: silence or noise. Silence, in terms of citizens not engaging, simply not wanting to participate. There's this commonplace  [idea] that I truly, truly dislike, and it's this idea that we citizens are naturally apathetic. That we shun commitment. But, can you really blame us for not jumping at the opportunity of going to the middle of the city in the middle of a working day to attend, physically, a public hearing that has no impact whatsoever? Conflict is bound to happen between a system that no longer represents, nor has any dialogue capacity, and citizens that are increasingly used to representing themselves. And, then we find noise: Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico Italy, France, Spain, the United States, they're all democracies. Their citizens have access to the ballot boxes. But they still feel the need, they need to take to the streets in order  to be heard. To me, it seems like the 18th-century slogan that was the basis for the formation of our modern democracies, ""No taxation without representation,"" can now be updated to ""No representation without a conversation."" We want our seat at the table. And rightly so. But in order to be part of this conversation, we need to know what we want to do next, because political action is being able to move from agitation to construction. My generation has been incredibly good at using new networks and technologies to organize protests, protests that were able to successfully impose agendas, roll back extremely pernicious legislation, and even overthrow authoritarian governments. And we should be immensely proud of this. But, we also must admit that we haven't been good at using those same networks and technologies to successfully articulate an alternative to what we're seeing and find the consensus and build  the alliances that are needed to make it happen. And so the risk that we face is that we can create these huge power vacuums that will very quickly get filled up by de facto powers, like the military or highly motivated and already organized groups that generally lie on the extremes. But our democracy is neither just a matter of voting once every couple of years. But it's not either the ability to bring millions onto the streets. So the question I'd like to raise here, and I do believe it's the most important  question we need to answer, is this one: If Internet is the new printing press, then what is democracy for the Internet era? What institutions do we want to build for the 21st-century society? I don't have the answer, just in case. I don't think anyone does. But I truly believe we can't afford to ignore this question anymore. So, I'd like to share our experience and what we've learned so far and hopefully contribute two cents to this conversation. Two years ago, with a group of friends from Argentina, we started thinking, ""how can  we get our representatives, our elected representatives, to represent us?"" Marshall McLuhan once said that politics is solving today's problems with yesterday's tools. So the question that motivated us was, can we try and solve some of today's problems with the tools that we use every single day of our lives? Our first approach was to design and develop a piece of software called DemocracyOS. DemocracyOS is an open-source web application that is designed to become a bridge between citizens and their elected representatives to make it easier for us to participate  from our everyday lives. So first of all, you can get informed so every new project that gets introduced in Congress gets immediately translated and explained in plain language on this platform. But we all know that social change is not going to come from just knowing more information, but from doing something with it. So better access to information should lead to a conversation about what we're going to do next, and DemocracyOS allows for that. Because we believe that democracy is not just a matter of stacking up preferences, one on top of each other, but that our healthy and robust public debate should be, once again, one of its fundamental values. So DemocracyOS is about persuading  and being persuaded. It's about reaching a consensus as much as finding a proper way of channeling our disagreement. And finally, you can vote how you would like your elected  representative to vote. And if you do not feel comfortable voting on a certain issue, you can always delegate your vote to someone else, allowing for a dynamic and emerging social leadership. It suddenly became very easy for us to simply compare these results with how our representatives were voting in Congress. But, it also became very evident that technology was not going to do the trick. What we needed to do to was to find actors that were able to grab this distributed knowledge in society and use it to make better and more fair decisions. So we reached out to traditional political parties and we offered them DemocracyOS. We said, ""Look, here you have a platform that you can use to build a two-way conversation with your constituencies."" And yes, we failed. We failed big time. We were sent to play  outside like little kids. Amongst other things, we were called naive. And I must be honest: I think, in hindsight, we were. Because the challenges that we face, they're not technological, they're cultural. Political parties were never willing to change the way they make their decisions. So it suddenly became a bit obvious that if we wanted to move forward with this idea, we needed to do it ourselves. And so we took quite a leap of faith, and in August last year, we founded our own political party, El Partido de la Red, or the Net Party, in the city of  Buenos Aires. And taking an even bigger leap of faith, we ran for elections in October last year with this idea: if we want a seat in Congress, our candidate, our representatives were always going to vote according to what citizens decided on DemocracyOS. Every single project that got introduced in Congress, we were going vote according to what citizens decided on an online platform. It was our way of hacking the political system. We understood that if we wanted to become part of the conversation, to have a seat at the table, we needed to become valid stakeholders, and the only way of doing it is to play by the  system rules. But we were hacking it in the sense that we were radically changing the way a political party makes its decisions. For the first time, we were making our decisions together with those who we were affecting directly by those decisions. It was a very, very bold move for a two-month-old party in the city of Buenos Aires. But it got attention. We got 22,000 votes, that's 1.2 percent of the votes, and we came in second for the local options. So, even if that wasn't enough to win a seat in Congress, it was enough for us to become part of the conversation, to the extent that next month, Congress, as an institution, is launching for the first time in Argentina's history, a DemocracyOS to discuss, with the citizens, three pieces of legislation: two on urban transportation and one on the use of public space. Of course, our elected representatives are not saying, ""Yes, we're going to vote according to what citizens decide,"" but they're willing to try. They're willing to open up a new space for citizen engagement and hopefully they'll be willing to listen as well. Our political system can be transformed, and not by subverting it, by destroying it, but by rewiring it with the tools that Internet affords us now. But a real challenge is to find, to design to create, to empower those connectors that are able to innovate, to transform noise and silence into signal and finally bring our democracies to the 21st century. I'm not saying it's easy. But in our experience, we actually stand a chance of making it work. And in my heart, it's most definitely worth trying. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想我們都認同我們國家和社會的樣貌正不斷變新但我們毫無頭緒 不知會變得怎樣或者應該要變得怎樣似乎在這個時代我們需要一場 關於民主的對話讓我們這樣想:我們是 21 世紀公民嘗試和 19 世紀建立的體制互動這體制以15 世紀資訊科技 為運作基礎先來看一下這個體制的特色首先 這體制是為了五百多年前的資訊科技設計而這體制設計的可能最棒的地方在於第一少部分的人能夠以大眾之名做日常決策然後每隔幾年大家投一次票第二 代價參與這體系的代價非常高你得要非常有錢和有影響力或投入畢生參與政治你需成為一個黨員慢慢提升黨內地位直到或許某天 可以坐在桌邊參與政治決議最後也很重要的這體制的語言非常隱晦由律師為了律師所定其他人難以理解 所以，在這體制下我們可決定民意代表但我們完全無法得知他們如何做出決策也許某天因新的科技資訊我們可參與全球的任何一場對話我們幾乎可以得知所有的資訊也可比以前更積極表達我們的需求和擔憂我們的政治體系一成不變過去兩百年來皆如此還期待我們被動地聆聽單方政治決策 需求就可被滿足所以一點也不意外這樣的體系下只會產生兩種結果沉默 或 爭論沉默表示市民置身事外簡單來說就是不想參與政治議題這是很普遍也是我很厭惡的想法也因此 我們對政治興致缺缺不願做任何承諾但可以怪我們嗎？怪我們錯失機會不願在工作日中跑到城市裡實際參與一場聽起來沒什麼影響的決策討論？衝突是體系中無法避免的但不代表溝通終止越來越多的市民站出來為自己發聲這就是輿論智利 阿根廷 巴西 墨西哥義大利 法國 西班牙 美國都是民主國家即使有投票制度他們仍覺得 需要佔據街頭才能表達心聲我覺得就像 18 世紀的那個口號那個口號促成了現代民主基礎無代表 不納稅 現在是否應該改為無對話 無代表？我們應當要有桌邊席這毫無疑問但若要參與對話我們需要知道下一步想做什麼因為政治行為已經能從煽動到團結我們這一代人已經善於利用網路和新科技組織抗議活動這些活動可以很成功地掀起議題撤回不當政策甚至推翻獨裁政府我們應該為此感到非常驕傲但我們也得承認我們還沒有利用好 網路和科技來詳述其他方案 解決現況並找到共識 凝聚力量讓想法實踐此外我們還必須承擔的風險就是造成的權力真空 讓某些有權勢力趁虛而入像是軍事或 虎視眈眈很久早已存在的極端組織然而 民主並不是每隔幾年投票一次也不是幾百萬人聚集在街頭所以在這我想問的一個很重要且需要有答案的問題 若網路是新時代媒體那網路時代的民主是什麼我們想為 21 世紀建立怎樣的體系如果我沒有答案我想也沒人知道但我們真的不能再漠視這個問題了 所以，我想和大家分享我們的經驗以及從中學到的東西希望能藉此帶來一點啟發兩年前 我和一些阿根廷朋友想說該怎麼讓代表我們的民意代表""代表""我們馬素·麥克魯漢曾說政治是以昨日的工具解決今日的問題這句話讓我們不禁想到我們可否以每日用得到的工具解決今日的問題呢？我們的第一個方式是研究設計 DemocracyOS（民主操作系統） 一套開放源代碼的網絡應用這套軟體設計用來作為市民和代表的溝通橋樑讓我們更方便地參與政治迅速掌握資訊我們可透過平台看到國會每天新提案的即時翻譯和顯而易懂的說明解釋但我們都知道知道更多的資訊並不能促使社會變遷而要掌握資訊並有所作為因此 透過 DemocracyOS （民主操作系統）資訊的快速獲得可促使談話談論下一步可能的走向因為我們深信 民主不只是疊加的結果並非喜好的堆疊健全的公眾辯論應該再次成為民主的基礎核心DemocracyOS 是說服與被說服是達成共識以合適的方法解決分歧最後 你可投票你希望你選出的代表如何投票若你對某個投票議題 感到不自在你可委託別人代理投票也因此產生勤勉不懈的新社會領導只要比對結果和民代在國會投票的情形一切都變得非常簡單但也很明顯的科技太過制式我們需要找到參與者讓他們利用大眾認知做出更好更公平的決定因此我們找來了傳統政黨提供他們 DemocracyOS我們跟他們說 透過此平台可建立和選民的雙方對話如你想的 我們失敗了徹底的失敗我們像小孩一樣被叫閉嘴他們說我們無知 愚昧但老實說 事後回想 的確如此因為我們遇到的問題非技術性 而是文化層面政黨不可能願意 改變做決定的方式一切間答案很明顯若我們想進一步實現想法我們需靠自己實踐於是我們信心十足的去年八月 在阿根廷成立了自己的政黨網路黨 (El Partido de la Red)或 Net Party（網黨），在布宜諾斯艾利斯之後我們更自信無比的在去年十月出來競選我們秉持著：若我們想要國會席位我們的候選人和代表會依據市民在 DemocracyOs的決定來投票即使是國會提出的單一法案我們也會根據市民在網路平台的決定投票這是我們顛覆政治體系的方法我們明瞭 若想參與談話占國會一席我們須成為利益相關人要達到目標 唯遵守體系規則但我們悄悄入侵這個體系徹底改變政黨做決策的方法 第一次 我們總算可以做決定和那些與政策有直接影響的人一起做決定對於在阿根廷才成立兩個月的政黨這個舉動很大膽因此備受矚目我們獲得 22,000 票數佔總票數 1.2％在地方選舉排名第二雖然我們無法因此獲得國會席位卻讓我們可以參與對話接下來的那個月阿根廷史上第一次 身為國家機構的國會推動 DemocracyOS 和 市民討論三個法案：兩個都市交通法案一個公共空間利用法案我們的民代並非表示「我們會根據選民的決定投票」 但他們願意嘗試願意打開新局面讓選民加入談話希望他們也會願意好好傾聽選民 我們可以改變政治系統但非以顛覆或破壞性手段而是利用網路工具改寫政治體系但最大的挑戰在於要找到 設計 創造方法 以方法創新 讓喧囂和沉默被聽到最後將民主帶到 21 世紀我想這不容易但根據我們的經驗我們手握機會讓這個理想實現我打從心底深摯地覺得 值得一試謝謝大家"
