Talk	en	zh-tw
pico_iyer_the_art_of_stillness	"I'm a lifelong traveler. Even as a little kid, I was actually working out that it would be cheaper to go to boarding school in England than just to the best school down the road from my parents' house in California. So, from the time I was nine years old I was flying alone several times a year over the North Pole, just to go to school. And of course the more I flew the more I came to love to fly, so the very week after I graduated from high school, I got a job mopping tables so that I could spend every season of my 18th year on a different continent. And then, almost inevitably, I became a travel writer so my job and my joy could become one. And I really began to feel that if you were lucky enough to walk around the candlelit temples of Tibet or to wander along the seafronts in Havana with music passing all around you, you could bring those sounds  and the high cobalt skies and the flash of the blue ocean back to your friends at home, and really bring some magic and clarity to your own life. Except, as you all know, one of the first things you learn when you travel is that nowhere is magical unless you can bring the right eyes to it. You take an angry man to the Himalayas, he just starts complaining about the food. And I found that the best way that I could develop more attentive and more appreciative eyes was, oddly, by going nowhere, just by sitting still. And of course sitting still is how many of us get what we most crave and need in our accelerated lives, a break. But it was also the only way that I could find to sift through the slideshow of my experience and make sense of the future and the past. And so, to my great surprise, I found that going nowhere was at least as exciting as going to Tibet or to Cuba. And by going nowhere, I mean nothing more intimidating than taking a few minutes out of every day or a few days out of every season, or even, as some people do, a few years out of a life in order to sit still long enough to find out what moves you most, to recall where your truest happiness lies and to remember that sometimes making a living and making a life point in opposite directions. And of course, this is what wise beings through the centuries from every tradition have been telling us. It's an old idea. More than 2,000 years ago,  the Stoics were reminding us it's not our experience that makes our lives, it's what we do with it. Imagine a hurricane suddenly  sweeps through your town and reduces every last thing to rubble. One man is traumatized for life. But another, maybe even his brother, almost feels liberated, and decides this is a great chance to start his life anew. It's exactly the same event, but radically different responses. There is nothing either good or bad, as Shakespeare told us in ""Hamlet,"" but thinking makes it so. And this has certainly been my experience as a traveler. Twenty-four years ago I took  the most mind-bending trip across North Korea. But the trip lasted a few days. What I've done with it sitting still, going back to it in my head, trying to understand it, finding a place for it in my thinking, that's lasted 24 years already and will probably last a lifetime. The trip, in other words, gave me some amazing sights, but it's only sitting still that allows me to turn those into lasting insights. And I sometimes think that so much of our life takes place inside our heads, in memory or imagination or interpretation or speculation, that if I really want to change my life I might best begin by changing my mind. Again, none of this is new; that's why Shakespeare and the Stoics were telling us this centuries ago, but Shakespeare never had to face 200 emails in a day. (Laughter) The Stoics, as far as I know, were not on Facebook. We all know that in our on-demand lives, one of the things that's most on demand is ourselves. Wherever we are, any time of night or day, our bosses, junk-mailers, our parents can get to us. Sociologists have actually found that in recent years Americans are working fewer hours than 50 years ago, but we feel as if we're working more. We have more and more time-saving devices, but sometimes, it seems, less and less time. We can more and more easily  make contact with people on the furthest corners of the planet, but sometimes in that process we lose contact with ourselves. And one of my biggest surprises  as a traveler has been to find that often it's exactly the people who have most enabled us to get anywhere who are intent on going nowhere. In other words, precisely those beings who have created the technologies that override so many of the limits of old, are the ones wisest about the need for limits, even when it comes to technology. I once went to the Google headquarters and I saw all the things many of you have heard about; the indoor tree houses, the trampolines, workers at that time enjoying 20 percent of their paid time free so that they could just let their imaginations go wandering. But what impressed me even more was that as I was waiting for my digital I.D., one Googler was telling me about the program that he was about to start to teach the many, many Googlers who practice yoga to become trainers in it, and the other Googler was telling me about the book that he was about to write on the inner search engine, and the ways in which science has empirically shown that sitting still, or meditation, can lead not just to better  health or to clearer thinking, but even to emotional intelligence. I have another friend in Silicon Valley who is really one  of the most eloquent spokesmen for the latest technologies, and in fact was one of the founders of Wired magazine, Kevin Kelly. And Kevin wrote his last book on fresh technologies without a smartphone or a laptop or a TV in his home. And like many in Silicon Valley, he tries really hard to observe what they call an Internet sabbath, whereby for 24 or 48 hours every week they go completely offline in order to gather the sense of direction and proportion they'll need  when they go online again. The one thing perhaps that technology hasn't always given us is a sense of how to make the wisest use of technology. And when you speak of the sabbath, look at the Ten Commandments — there's only one word there for which the adjective ""holy"" is used, and that's the Sabbath. I pick up the Jewish holy book of the Torah — its longest chapter, it's on the Sabbath. And we all know that it's really one of our greatest luxuries, the empty space. In many a piece of music,  it's the pause or the rest that gives the piece its beauty and its shape. And I know I as a writer will often try to include a lot of empty space on the page so that the reader can complete my thoughts and sentences and so that her imagination has room to breathe. Now, in the physical domain,  of course, many people, if they have the resources, will try to get a place in the country, a second home. I've never begun to have those resources, but I sometimes remember that any time I want, I can get a second home in time, if not in space, just by taking a day off. And it's never easy because, of course,  whenever I do I spend much of it worried about all the extra stuff that's going to crash down on me the following day. I sometimes think I'd rather give up meat or sex or wine than the chance to check on my emails. (Laughter) And every season I do try to take three days off on retreat but a part of me still feels guilty to be leaving my poor wife behind and to be ignoring all those seemingly urgent emails from my bosses and maybe to be missing a friend's birthday party. But as soon as I get to a place of real quiet, I realize that it's only by going there that I'll have anything fresh or creative or joyful to share with my wife or bosses or friends. Otherwise, really, I'm just foisting on them my exhaustion or my distractedness, which is no blessing at all. And so when I was 29, I decided to remake my entire life in the light of going nowhere. One evening I was coming back from the office, it was after midnight, I was in a taxi driving through Times Square, and I suddenly realized that I was racing around so much I could never catch up with my life. And my life then, as it happened, was pretty much the one I might have dreamed of as a little boy. I had really interesting friends and colleagues, I had a nice apartment on Park Avenue and 20th Street. I had, to me, a fascinating job  writing about world affairs, but I could never separate myself enough from them to hear myself think — or really, to understand if I was truly happy. And so, I abandoned my dream life for a single room on the backstreets of Kyoto, Japan, which was the place that had long exerted a strong, really mysterious gravitational pull on me. Even as a child I would just look at a painting of Kyoto and feel I recognized it; I knew it before I ever laid eyes on it. But it's also, as you all know, a beautiful city encircled by hills, filled with more than 2,000 temples and shrines, where people have been sitting still for 800 years or more. And quite soon after I moved there, I ended up where I still am with my wife, formerly our kids, in a two-room apartment in the middle of nowhere where we have no bicycle, no car, no TV I can understand, and I still have to support my loved ones as a travel writer and a journalist, so clearly this is not ideal for job advancement or for cultural excitement or for social diversion. But I realized that it gives me what I prize most, which is days and hours. I have never once had to use a cell phone there. I almost never have to look at the time, and every morning when I wake up, really the day stretches in front of me like an open meadow. And when life throws up one of its nasty surprises, as it will, more than once, when a doctor comes into my room wearing a grave expression, or a car suddenly veers in front of mine on the freeway, I know, in my bones, that it's the time I've spent going nowhere that is going to sustain me much more than all the time I've spent racing around to Bhutan or Easter Island. I'll always be a traveler — my livelihood depends on it — but one of the beauties of travel is that it allows you to bring stillness into the motion and the commotion of the world. I once got on a plane in Frankfurt, Germany, and a young German woman  came down and sat next to me and engaged me in a very friendly conversation for about 30 minutes, and then she just turned around and sat still for 12 hours. She didn't once turn on her video monitor, she never pulled out a book, she didn't even go to sleep, she just sat still, and something of her clarity and calm really imparted itself to me. I've noticed more and more people taking conscious measures these days to try to open up a space inside their lives. Some people go to black-hole resorts where they'll spend hundreds of dollars a night in order to hand over their cell phone and their laptop to the front desk on arrival. Some people I know, just before they go to sleep, instead of scrolling through their messages or checking out YouTube, just turn out the lights and listen to some music, and notice that they sleep much better and wake up much refreshed. I was once fortunate enough to drive into the high, dark mountains behind Los Angeles, where the great poet and singer and international heartthrob Leonard Cohen was living and working for many years as a full-time monk in the Mount Baldy Zen Center. And I wasn't entirely surprised when the record that he released at the age of 77, to which he gave the deliberately  unsexy title of ""Old Ideas,"" went to number one in the charts  in 17 nations in the world, hit the top five in nine others. Something in us, I think, is crying out for the sense of intimacy and depth that we get from people like that. who take the time and trouble to sit still. And I think many of us have the sensation, I certainly do, that we're standing about two inches away from a huge screen, and it's noisy and it's crowded and it's changing with every second, and that screen is our lives. And it's only by stepping back, and then further back, and holding still, that we can begin to see what the canvas means and to catch the larger picture. And a few people do that for us by going nowhere. So, in an age of acceleration, nothing can be more exhilarating than going slow. And in an age of distraction, nothing is so luxurious as paying attention. And in an age of constant movement, nothing is so urgent as sitting still. So you can go on your next vacation to Paris or Hawaii, or New Orleans; I bet you'll have a wonderful time. But, if you want to come back home alive and full of fresh hope, in love with the world, I think you might want to try considering going nowhere. Thank you. (Applause)"	我這輩子都是個旅行者。即使還是一個小孩子的時候，我便瞭解，事實上，去讀英國寄宿學校會比去加州父母家附近最好的學校就讀還來得便宜。所以，當我 9 歲時，我會在一年中獨自飛行幾回，穿越北極，就只是去上學。當然，飛得越頻繁，我越是愛上旅行，所以就在我高中畢業後一週，我獲得一份清理桌子的工作，為了讓自己可以在 18 歲那年，在地球的各大陸上，分別待上一季。接著，幾乎不可避免地我成了一個旅遊作家，使我的工作和志趣可以結合在一塊。我真的開始發覺如果你可以幸運地漫步於西藏的燭光寺廟，或在音樂的繚繞間悠然信步於哈瓦那海岸，你便能將那聲音、天際與靛藍海洋的閃爍光芒帶回給你故鄉的朋友，捎來些許神奇，點亮自身生命。除了，如你們所知，當你旅行時，你學到的第一件事情是你必須以正確的視角看世界，否則大地依然黯淡無光。你帶一個易怒的男人爬喜馬拉雅山，他只會抱怨那裡的食物。我發現，有點怪異的是，最好的讓自己可以培養更專注的和更珍惜世界的視角的訣竅是哪裡都不去，靜止於原處即可。當然，待在原地正是我們許多人尋常就能得到的東西，我們都渴望在快速的生活中獲得休息。但那卻是我唯一的方法，讓自己可以重歷自身的經驗幻燈，理解未來與過去。如此，我驚異地發現，我發現無所去處和遊覽西藏或古巴一樣，令人興奮。無所去處，只不過意謂著每天花幾分鐘，或每季花幾天，甚至，如同某些人所做的，在生命中花上幾年長久靜思於某處，尋找感動你最多的一瞬，回憶你最真實的幸福時刻，並記住，有時謀生與生活彼此是處於光譜線上的兩端的。 當然，這是明智的眾生歷經幾百年從每個傳統中所告訴我們的。這是一個古老的概念。早在兩千多年前，斯多葛學派提醒我們並不是我們的經驗成就了我們的生命，而是我們用那經驗做了什麼。想像一下，一陣颶風 迅速撲向你的城市，將所有一切化為廢墟。某個人身心遭受終身頓挫，但另一人，也許甚至是他的兄弟，卻幾乎感覺釋懷，並認定，這是一個可以使自己重獲新生的重要機會。這是同樣的事件，截然不同的回應。沒有什麼是絕對的好壞，正如莎士比亞在《哈姆雷特》中所告訴我們的，好壞由思維決定。這無疑就是我作為一個旅者的經驗。24 年前，我完成了一次最不可思議的旅程：橫跨北韓。但這次旅行只持續了幾天。這經驗對於無所去處的我來說， 允許我可以在心思中回朔，試著瞭解它， 讓它在我的思維中尋得一個位置，在那裡已存留了 24 年，而它很可能會在我這生中，一直持續下去。換句話說， 這次旅行，帶給我一些驚人的景致，但唯有處於靜止的狀態才讓我得以將這些風景化為更長的見識。我有時會想，我們的生活有太多東西發生在我們自己的腦袋裡，在回憶中，在想像裡，透過詮釋，或是猜疑，如果我真想改變我的生命，我可能最好從改變我的思維開始。同樣，這一切都不是新想法；這就是為什麼莎士比亞和斯多葛學派 在幾個世紀前就告訴我們，然而，莎士比亞從未面對過一天收到兩百多封電子郵件的日子。（笑聲）據我所知，斯多葛派的學者們也沒掛在臉書上。我們都知道，在我們充滿各種需索的生活中，一種最迫切需要之物就是自己。無論我們處於何處，處於何時，無論是夜晚或白天中的任何時刻，我們的老闆、垃圾郵件、我們的父母都能找到我們。事實上，社會學家近年來發現，當今美國人的工作時間竟然比 50 年前還少，但我們卻覺得自己的工時更長。我們有越來越多的可以用來節省時間的設備，但有時，時間似乎越來越少。我們比以前更容易與身處地球另一端的人們聯繫，但有時候，在那過程中，我們與自己斷了線。作為一個旅行者，最讓我詫異的事情之一就是我發現，時常，往往就是那些最使我們能夠走向世界各地的人卻最希望身居原處。換句話說，正是那些創造了打破舊時限制允許人自由出遊的科技的人們才是最有智慧的個體，他們理解限制的必須，甚至在面對科技本身時，亦是如此。有一次我造訪 Google 總部，我見到了所有你們聽說過的事；室內樹屋、蹦床、以及那些正在體驗 20% 的屬於自己付費工時的員工，這讓他們的想像自由漫遊。但更讓我感到印象深刻的是，當我正在等待我的電子身份證時，有位 Google 員工告訴我一個案子，說他正打算教許許多多的 Google 員工來練習瑜伽，並成為瑜伽訓練師，而另外一個 Google 職員向我述說了一本他正想寫的書，一本關於內在尋索的書，以及科學如何經驗性地證明打坐，或冥想不僅能夠促進健康、明晰思維，甚至可以增進情緒智力。我有另一個在矽谷工作的朋友，他的確是當前最先進科技的最有說服力的代言人，他是《Wired》雜誌的創始人之一，凱文．凱利。凱文當時正在寫一本有關最新科技的書，但他家裡卻沒有智慧型手機、筆記本電腦，或者電視。如同許多住在矽谷的人們，他非常努力地觀察那個稱為網路安息日的東西，在每個星期中，有 24 或 48 小時，他們會徹底下線，以尋求一點方向感，用來重新調整，並汲取他們重新上線時之所需。有件科技可能尚未給予我們的是如何可以更聰明地使用科技。談到休息日，讓我們看看十誡吧，其中只有一個字的形容詞涉及「神聖」，那就是安息日。我拿起猶太聖典《托拉》，它最長的章節，也是關於安息日。我們都知道，這真是我們擁有的最大奢侈之一：空。在許多音樂作品中，停頓或靜默賦予這作品美麗形貌。我知道，作為一個作家，我時常會在頁面中留下空白之處讓讀者可以完整地領會我的思維與句法，以留給想像呼吸的空間。 現在，在實際的領域中，當然，有很多人，倘若他們稍微富裕的話，會試著在國內擁有第二個家。我從未有過那些資源，但我有時記得，任何時候，若我想的話，我可以給自己放一天假，來適時地，獲得第二個家。當然，這從來就不容易，每次我這麼做，對於所有多出來的會壓垮我隔日工作天的憂慮就會出現。有時我會覺得，我寧願放棄吃肉、性生活，或紅酒，也不願失去任何一丁點查電子信箱的機會。（笑聲）每個季度，我的確給自己三天假期，但關於丟下我妻子以及忽略那些老闆寄來的看似緊急的郵件，以及錯過朋友的派對，我內心某處仍然覺得有負罪感。但一旦來到某個真正安靜的地方，我才瞭解，只有去那裡，我才能擁有全新的、有創意的，或快意之事和我妻子、上司或朋友分享。否則，天啊，我能夠加諸於他們的 僅僅是我的疲憊或分神狀態，這實在黯然無光。 所以當我 29 歲時，我決定要重整自己全部的生活，為了獲得那無所去處的體驗。有天晚上，我從辦公室回家，當時午夜時分，我正在計程車上，經過了時代廣場，我突然驚覺，自己倉皇度日以至於永遠無法趕上自己的生活。而我的生活，在那時已差不多就和我小時夢想的一般。我有非常有趣的朋友和同事，我在公園大道和第 20 街口有個非常棒的公寓。我有個對我來說絕佳的工作，這工作讓我可以撰寫一些世界事務，但我從來未能將自己和它清楚分開，讓自己傾聽自己的思緒，或，去理解自己是否真的快樂。因此，我放棄我夢想中的工作，就為了待在一個位於日本京都某後街裡的單間房內，這地方長久以來產生了一種強烈的對我來說極為神秘的吸引力。甚至在我孩提時代，我會看著一幅京都的畫作並感覺，我認出它來了，在定睛審視它之前，我便知如此。但它也是，如同大家所知，是一個群山環繞的美麗城市，充滿 2000 多座寺廟和神社，人們在那裡靜思了 800 年以上之久。就在我搬到那裡不久，我和現在的妻子、孩子擠在一個有兩間房的公寓裡，在一個不毛之地，我們沒有自行車，沒有車，沒有可以理解的電視節目，我還得以作家和記者的身份撫養我的至親家人，因此很明顯地，這對職業生涯、對文化探索，或對體驗社會紛繁來說，都不是一個理想的規劃。但我理解，這賦予了我那些我最珍愛的日子，與時刻。我在那裡從未需要使用手機。我基本上幾乎無須看時間，每天早上我醒來時，在我眼前展開來的一天是一片敞開的草地。當生命向你拋出某個重大驚喜時，它會不只出現一次，當一個醫生來到我房裡，臉上帶著肅穆的表情，或一輛汽車在高速公路上突然改道，轉進我車子前方，我知道，在我骨子裡，正是那無所去處的時光幫助我持續保持平靜，那比起我在不丹和復活節島所度之日都要有幫助。 我永遠都會是個旅者，那是我生活之所繫，然而旅行的美好之處在於，它讓你將沈靜之心帶到這莽撞與躁動的世界之中。有次，我在德國法蘭克福搭機，一位年輕的德國女子坐到我身旁，與我展開非常友善的對談，近 30 分鐘，接著，她就轉過身去，靜靜坐在那裡 12 小時之久。她未曾打開螢幕，她也沒拿出書本，甚至從未睡去，就只是靜靜地坐著，她那明晰和沈靜已傳授於我。近來我注意到有越來越多人刻意地試圖在他們的生活中打開一片空間。有些人參加黑洞之旅他們會一晚花上幾百美元只為了將自己的手機與電腦交給度假中心接待處。有些我認識的人並不會在睡前玩手機，或觀看 YouTube 影片，反而就只是關燈，聽音樂，他們知道，這樣會有更好的睡眠，在隔天一早將更神清氣爽。我曾經有幸地駕駛於洛杉磯旁高聳黯黑的群山之中，那裡曾住了一位偉大的詩人樂手 —舉世皆知的李歐納．科恩。他曾在那附近作了好幾年的全職僧侶，就在博帝山禪學中心。當他在 77 歲發表了自己的唱片專輯，他故意給這個專輯取了個非常不性感的名稱「舊思維」，然而這專輯在全球17 個國家衝上排行榜首位，在另外 9 個國家衝上前 5 名。它觸動了我們許多人內心裡某種東西，觸動了躁動的人們一種親密、深刻與沈靜的思緒。我想許多人擁有這種感覺，我當然也是，我們站在一個巨大的螢幕前，距離大約兩英吋，人聲鼎沸，摩肩接踵，每一刻都在變動著，而那螢幕即為我們自己的人生。唯有向後退一步，再回頭一步，沉靜地屏住氣，我們才能開始瞭解那畫布上描繪之物，並以更寬廣的眼界洞察世界。有些人已如此做了，他們無須來去。 因此，在這個快速轉變的時代，沒有什麼比慢下來還要振奮人心。在這個失焦的時代，沒有什麼比凝神專注來得奢侈。在這個不斷變動的時代，沒有什麼比靜思來得急迫。所以，下一次當你們去巴黎、夏威夷或紐奧良度假時，我保證你們會有一段美好時光，但如果你們想回家，期待滿懷全新希望，愛這個世界，我想，也許你們應該試著哪裡都別去。謝謝。（掌聲）
