Talk	en	zh-tw
raghava_kk_what_s_your_200_year_plan	"About 75 years ago, my grandfather, a young man, walked into a tent that was converted into a movie theater like that, and he fell hopelessly in love with the woman he saw on the silver screen: none other than Mae West, the heartthrob of the '30s, and he could never forget her. In fact, when he had his daughter many years later, he wanted to name her after Mae West, but can you imagine an Indian child name Mae West? The Indian family said, no way! So when my twin brother Kaesava was born, he decided to tinker with the spelling of Keshava's name. He said, if Mae West can be M-A-E, why can't Keshava be K-A-E? So he changed Kaesava's spelling. Now Kaesava had a baby boy called Rehan a couple of weeks ago. He decided to spell, or, rather, misspell Raehan with an A-E. You know, my grandfather died many years ago when I was little, but his love for Mae West lives on as a misspelling in the DNA of his progeny. That for me is successful legacy. (Laughs) You know, as for me, my wife and I have our own crazy legacy project. We actually sit every few years, argue, disagree, fight, and actually come up with our very own 200-year plan. Our friends think we're mad. Our parents think we're cuckoo. Because, you know, we both come from families that really look up to humility and wisdom, but we both like to live larger than life. I believe in the concept of a Raja Yogi: Be a dude before you can become an ascetic. This is me being a rock star, even if it's in my own house. You know? So when Netra and I sat down to make our first plan 10 years ago, we said we want the focus of this plan to go way beyond ourselves. What do we mean by beyond ourselves? Well 200 years, we calculated, is at the end of our direct contact with the world. There's nobody I'll meet in my life will ever live beyond 200 years, so we thought that's a perfect place where we should situate our plan and let our imagination take flight. You know, I never really believed in legacy. What am I going to leave behind? I'm an artist. Until I made a cartoon about 9/11. It caused so much trouble for me. I was so upset. You know, a cartoon that was meant to be a cartoon of the week ended up staying so much longer. Now I'm in the business of creating art that will definitely even outlive me, and I think about what I want to leave behind through those paintings. You know, the 9/11 cartoon upset me so much that I decided I'll never cartoon again. I said, I'm never going to make any honest public commentary again. But of course I continued creating artwork that was honest and raw, because I forgot about how people reacted to my work. You know, sometimes forgetting is so important to remain idealistic. Perhaps loss of memory is so crucial for our survival as human beings. One of the most important things in my 200-year plan that Netra and I write is what to forget about ourselves. You know, we carry so much baggage, from our parents, from our society, from so many people — fears, insecurities — and our 200-year plan really lists all our childhood problems that we have to expire. We actually put an expiry date on all our childhood problems. The latest date I put was, I said, I am going to expire my fear of my leftist, feminist mother-in-law, and this today is the date! (Laughs) She's watching. (Laughter) Anyway, you know, I really make decisions all the time about how I want to remember myself, and that's the most important kind of decisions I make. And this directly translates into my paintings. But like my friends, I can do that really well on Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube. Name it, I'm on it. I've started outsourcing my memory to the digital world, you know? But that comes with a problem. It's so easy to think of technology as a metaphor for memory, but our brains are not perfect storage devices like technology. We only remember what we want to. At least I do. And I rather think of our brains as biased curators of our memory, you know? And if technology is not a metaphor for memory, what is it? Netra and I use our technology as a tool in our 200-year plan to really curate our digital legacy. That is a picture of my mother, and she recently got a Facebook account. You know where this is going. And I've been very supportive until this picture shows up on my Facebook page. (Laughter) And I actually untagged myself first, then I picked up the phone. I said, ""Mom, you will never put a picture of me in a bikini ever again."" And she said, ""Why? You look so cute, darling."" I said, ""You just don't understand."" Maybe we are among the first generation that really understands this digital curating of ourselves. Maybe we are the first to even actively record our lives. You know, whether you agree with, you know, legacy or not, we are actually leaving behind digital traces all the time. So Netra and I really wanted to use our 200-year plan to curate this digital legacy, and not only digital legacy but we believe in curating the legacy of my past and future. How, you may ask? Well, when I think of the future, I never see myself moving forward in time. I actually see time moving backward towards me. I can actually visualize my future approaching. I can dodge what I don't want and pull in what I want. It's like a video game obstacle course. And I've gotten better and better at doing this. Even when I make a painting, I actually imagine I'm behind the painting, it already exists, and someone's looking at it, and I see whether they're feeling it from their gut. Are they feeling it from their heart, or is it just a cerebral thing? And it really informs my painting. Even when I do an art show, I really think about, what should people walk away with? I remember when I was 19, I did, I wanted to do my first art exhibition, and I wanted the whole world to know about it. I didn't know TED then, but what I did was I closed my eyes tight, and I started dreaming. I could imagine people coming in, dressed up, looking beautiful, my paintings with all the light, and in my visualization I actually saw a very famous actress launching my show, giving credibility to me. And I woke up from my visualization and I said, who was that? I couldn't tell if it was Shabana Azmi or Rekha, two very famous Indian actresses, like the Meryl Streeps of India. As it turned out, next morning I wrote a letter to both of them, and Shabana Azmi replied, and came and launched my very first show 12 years ago. And what a bang it started my career with! You know, when we think of time in this way, we can curate not only the future but also the past. This is a picture of my family, and that is Netra, my wife. She's the co-creator of my 200-year plan. Netra's a high school history teacher. I love Netra, but I hate history. I keep saying, ""Nets, you live in the past while I'll create the future, and when I'm done, you can study about it."" (Laughter) She gave me an indulgent smile, and as punishment, she said, ""Tomorrow I'm teaching a class on Indian history, and you are sitting in it, and I'm grading you."" I'm like, ""Oh, God."" I went. I actually went and sat in on her class. She started by giving students primary source documents from India, Pakistan, from Britain, and I said, ""Wow."" Then she asked them to separate fact from bias. I said, ""Wow,"" again. Then she said, ""Choose your facts and biases and create an image of your own story of dignity."" History as an imaging tool? I was so inspired. I went and created my own version of Indian history. I actually included stories from my grandmother. She used to work for the telephone exchange, and she used to actually overhear conversations between Nehru and Edwina Mountbatten. And she used to hear all kinds of things she shouldn't have heard. But, you know, I include things like that. This is my version of Indian history. You know, if this is so, it occurred to me that maybe, just maybe, the primary objective of our brains is to serve our dignity. Go tell Facebook to figure that out! Netra and I don't write our 200-year plan for someone else to come and execute it in 150 years. Imagine receiving a parcel saying, from the past, okay now you're supposed to spend the rest of your life doing all of this. No. We actually write it only to set our attitudes right. You know, I used to believe that education is the most important tool to leave a meaningful legacy. Education is great. It really teaches us who we are, and helps us contextualize ourselves in the world, but it's really my creativity that's taught me that I can be much more than what my education told me I am. I'd like to make the argument that creativity is the most important tool we have. It lets us create who we are, and curate what is to come. I like to think — Thank you. I like to think of myself as a storyteller, where my past and my future are only stories, my stories, waiting to be told and retold. I hope all of you one day get a chance to share and write your own 200-year story. Thank you so much. Shukran! (Applause)"	"大概七十五年前我的祖父，仍是一位年青人，走進一個由帳篷改裝而成的電影院而他馬上瘋狂地愛上影在銀幕上的女人:那人是在三十年代的萬人迷梅·蕙絲他從此對她無法忘懷甚至於幾年後當他有了一個女兒他想把她改名為梅·蕙絲但你不可能想像有一個印度孩子叫梅·蕙絲印度的家庭都說:不可以 所以當我的孿生兄弟Kaesava出生時他決定在Keshava的名字的拼寫上作出一點修改他說既然梅·蕙絲可以是拼成 M-A-E為什麼Keshava 不可以是 K-A-E所以他把Kaeshava 的拼寫改變而Kaeshava 在幾星期前有了一個小男孩名叫Rehan他決定把它拼成或可以說是把它拼錯為Raehan，有一個A-E. 你要知道，我的祖父在我還是很小的時候已經去世但他對梅·蕙絲的愛以拼字錯誤的方式長存在他後代的DNA上我覺得這是一個成功的遺傳(笑) 而至於我我太太和我有一個瘋狂的傳奇計劃我們事實上每幾年都在爭論，反對，爭執最終想出我們的二百年計劃 我們的朋友認為我們瘋掉我們的父母認為我們瘋掉因為我們兩個都是來自一個謙遜和智慧的家庭但我們兩個都想生存得比生命更偉大我相信一個勝王瑜伽行者的概念要成為一個苦行者前你先要成為一個講究生活的人這是我成為一個搖滾巨星雖然只是在家裡你能想像嗎 當我太太Netra和我坐下在十年前去制定我們第一個計劃時我們希望這計劃的重點是要遠遠超越我們那麼超越我們是指什麼呢 噢，我們計算二百年後將會是我們對世界的直接連繫的終結我所認識的人沒有人可以生存超過二百年。所以我們想這將是把我們的計劃紮根的好地方並讓我們的想像起飛 你要知道我從來不相信傳承我會留下什麼呢我是一個藝術家直至我作了有關911的卡通它帶給我很多的麻煩我非常的失落那個卡通本是本週最佳卡通片最後維持得更久 現在我正創作一定可以比我活得更久的作品我會想我希望透過那些作品留下什麼訊息 你要知道911的卡通令我非常沮喪使我打算不再作卡通了我說:我不會再發表坦誠的公開評論了 但當然我會繼續創作真誠和完創的作品因為我忘記了別人對我的作品的反應 你要知道有時健忘是能令人保持理想可能失去記憶是對人類生存是關重要 Netra和我在我們的200年計劃中寫下其中一件最重要的事情是如何忘記自己你知道我們背負著很多包袱從父母從社會，從很多人 —恐懼，不安感我們的200年計劃列舉了我們應該終止的兒時問題我們甚至乎在我們的兒時問題上加上一個到期日最近我加上日期時我打算對我左傾和崇尚男女平等主義的外母的恐懼終止而到期日就是今天(笑)她正在看(笑) 反正我時常對我如何能記住自己而作出決定而這些是我做的最重要的決定而這些直接反映在我的畫作中如同我的朋友我可以在面書，微博，照相簿，網上短片中做得很好你能說出的，我都在我開始把其他人對我的回憶外判給數碼世界但你要知道這帶來一個問題你很容易以科技象徵記憶但我們的大腦是不像科技那樣成為一個完美存儲設備我們只會記著我們想記著的事情至少我是這樣我甚至認為我們的大腦對我們的記憶產生偏頗的管理如果科技不是記憶的象徵那麼是什麼呢 Netra 和我以科技作為我們的200年計劃的一個工具用以牧養我們的電子傳承 這是我母親的照片她最近在臉譜網(Facebook)上創建了一個帳戶你知道這將會怎樣發展我原先是非常支持直至這張照片出現在我的面書上(笑) 我真的把自己的標記移除然後我拿起電話我說: 媽! 你以後不要再把我穿著比基尼的照片放上網，以後也不要而她說:為什麼，親愛的，你很可愛呀我說:你真的不明白 可能我們是第一代人真的明白網絡世界如何塑造我們可能我們是第一代人開始記錄我們的生活 你要知道無論你同意與否我們是無時無刻都在留下我們的電子足跡所以Netra和我真的很想用我們的200年計劃來建立我們的電子遺傳不單單只是電子記憶我們是相信把我們的過去與未來好好的遺傳下去 你可能會問，那應怎樣做呢 當我想著未來我是不可能見著自己隨著時間向前走而我其實是看見時間如何在後退我可以想像我的將來在向我靠近我可以躲開我不喜歡的事情或是走進我喜歡的事情中這好像電子遊戲中的障礙賽我做得越來越好甚至乎當我作畫時我可以幻想站在畫作背後好像它已經存在一棣其他人在看著它而我可以見到他們對它內心的感覺他們是發自內心還是只是理性的這帶給我很多訊息甚至乎當我在開畫展時我真的會幻想人們會帶走哪些作品呢 我記得當我19歲的時候我想作我第一個畫展我想全世界都知道我當時不認識 TED但我當時是把我的眼睛緊閉然後開始幻想我可以想像人們走進來盛裝出席, 非常漂亮我的畫作得到全場的焦點而在我的幻想裡我真的見到一位非常有名的女藝人為我的畫展剪綵給我讚賞我從我的幻想中醒來我問她是誰我不能分辨她是謝花阿茲米還是瑞卡兩位印度當紅的女藝人有如印度的梅莉史翠普 最後第二天我寫了一封信給她們而謝花阿茲米回覆了她來了為畫展剪綵在12年前我的第一個畫展而這打嚮了我的事業頭一炮當我們用這方法想著時間你不但在建立將來還有過去這是我的家庭照這是Netra, 我的太太她是我的200年計劃的同創人 Netra 是一個中學歷史老師我愛Netra但我討厭歷史我常常說:Nets, 你活在過去而我在創造未來當我完成了你就可以研究它(笑) 她會給我一個寬容而後作為一個懲罰，她會說明天我將會教授有關歷史的課，而你要來上課而我給你評分 我會像""噢,我的天呀"" 我確實有去並上了她的課她開始給她的學生來自印度,巴基斯坦英國的原檔案而我嘩了一聲而她叫她的學生把那些檔案把事實和偏見分開我會再一次嘩了一聲她會接著說:揀選你的事實和偏見而後創造你故事的莊嚴幻想 歷史作為一個幻想的工具?造給我很多的靈感 我也創作我印度歷史的版本我甚至於加入來自我祖母的故事她以往從事電話轉駁的工作她會偷聽尼赫魯和埃德維娜蒙巴頓的對話她會聽到所有她不應該聽到的事情但你知道我會把它放進去而這是我印度歷史的版本 你知道如果是這樣它發生在我身上可能，僅僅是可能我們的大腦的主要目標是為著我們的尊嚴去面書理解它 Netra和我不是為了別人在150年後來實行而寫我們的200年計劃試想像收到一個寫著來自過去的包裹而你將要用你的餘生去把宅實行不是這樣我們這樣做只為了讓我們把能正確的設置我們的態度 我曾經相信教育是最重要的工具來留下有意義的傳奇教育是很好它教了我們我們是誰亦幫助我們在自己的世界裡定位但是是我的創意教曉我我是能夠比教育告訴我是誰更多大 我希望作出創意是我們擁有的最重要的工具的論據它可以創造我們是誰亦塑造我們將怎樣 我喜歡想—謝謝 我會想像自己是一個講故事的人而我的過去和將來只是故事我的故事在等待著被述說和再述說我希望在座所有人有一天有機會分享和創造你自己的200年故事 謝謝 謝謝 (掌聲)"
