Talk	en	zh-tw
rainn_wilson_ideas_worth_dating	"(Music) Rainn Wilson: It takes its toll, being alone. I'm a little bit lost, and it's finally time to make a real connection. Who am I? (Drums) I'm a single white male, 45 years of age. I love animals. Gainfully employed. I'm a people person. I keep fit. Who am I looking for? I'm looking for my idea mate. Are you that idea that matches with who I really am? (Video) Ron Finley: How would you feel if you had no access to healthy food? Gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do. RW: Wow, we sure are getting our fingers dirty for a first date, huh? RF: Gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do. People in these areas — they're exposed to crappy food. I want people to know that growing your own food is like printing your own money. RW: You're like a food superhero! RF: Food is the problem and food is the solution. (Music) Erin McKean: I'm a lexicographer. My job is to put every word possible into the dictionary. RW: I love words, too — just as much as any lexi-ta-tographer. What if you love a word that you've just made up, like — I don't know — ""scuberfinkles""? Beau Lotto: Do you think you see reality? RW: Well, I'm a little nearsighted, but yeah. BL: Well, you can't — I mean, your brain has no access to this world. In fact, even the sensory information that your eyes are receiving, your ears are receiving, is completely meaningless because it could mean anything. That tree could be a large object far away or a small object up close, and your brain has no way of knowing. RW: Once I thought I saw Bigfoot but it was just a German shepherd. Isabel Behncke Izquierdo: Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees, your closest living relatives. Bonobos have frequent and promiscuous sex to manage conflict and solve social issues. RW: I'm just curious: Do we have any conflict that needs managing or social issues to resolve? IBI: Remember — you're on a date with my idea, not me. Jane McGonigal: This is the face of someone who, against all odds, is on the verge of an epic win. RW: An epic win? JM: An epic win is an outcome so extraordinarily positive, you didn't even know it was possible until you achieved it. You're not making the face. You're making the ""I'm not good at life"" face. RW: Arthur, I want to be really honest with you. I am seeing other ideas. OK? I'm dating around. That's the situation. Arthur Benjamin: I'd say this: Mathematics is not just solving for x, it's also figuring out why. RW: Do you want to get some pie? AB: Pi? 3.14159265358979 — Reggie Watts: If we're going to do something, we've got to just make a decision. Because without a decision we're left powerless. Without power, we have nothing to supply the chain of those who are truly curious to solve all of our current conditions. RW: And, ""If you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice"" — Rush. JM: Yes! This is the face we need to see on millions of problem solvers worldwide, as we try to tackle the challenges of the next century. RW: So, are we going Dutch? AB: 3846264338327950 28841... 971? RW: One night, want to go to a movie or something? RF: Hell, no! Let's go plant some shit! RW: Let's plant some shit! Good, now what is this that I'm planting? Bonobos! IBI: Bonobos! (Laughs) Bonobos. RWatts: Um, interested much? RW: I want to have your idea baby. RWatts: Well, you know what they say in Russia. RW: Hm? RWatts: ""scuberfinckle."" (Bottles clink)"	（音乐） 雷恩·威爾森：一個人待著會損失很多我有一點迷失現在終於是時間去創造一個新的聯係了我是誰？ （鼓聲） 我是一個單身的白人男性45歲我愛動物們工作有報酬我是一個善交際的人我保持健康我在尋找誰呢？我在尋找我理想的伴侶你擁有那個與真正的的我所相符的想法嗎？ （視頻）羅恩·芬雷：你會感覺如何若是你不能吃到健康的食物？園藝是一種你可以做的最療養和目中無人的活動 雷恩：哇哦，我們肯定要在第一次見面就把手指弄得很髒，是吧？ 羅恩：園藝是一種你可以做的最療養和目中無人的活動在這些地區的人們——他們被糟糕的食物所包圍著我想要讓人們去知道自己種吃的就像是給自己印鈔 雷恩：你就像一個食物超級英雄！ 羅恩：食物是問題，同時也是解決方案 （音樂） 伊爾琳·麥基恩：我是一名詞典編纂者我的職業就是將每個可能的單詞放入詞典 雷恩：我也愛詞語——就像任何一個詞典—編患—者如果你喜歡一個你剛編造出來的詞就像——我不知道——“scuberfinkles”？ 博·羅托：你認為你看到現實了嗎？ 雷恩：呃，我有點近視，不過是的 博：好吧，你不能——我是說你的大腦跟這個世界根本沒有聯繫事實上，哪怕是你眼睛接受的感覺信息你的耳朵接收的是完全沒有意義的，因為它們可以意味著任何東西那棵樹可以是一個遠遠的巨大物體或是一個臨近的小物體但你的大腦並不能夠知道 雷恩：有一次我以為我看到了大腳，但其實那隻是一只德國牧羊犬 伊莎貝爾·貝恩克·伊斯基耶多：倭黑猩猩是，和黑猩猩一樣你最鄰近的動物親戚倭黑猩猩有頻繁和淫亂的性生活為了解決衝突和群居問題 雷恩：我就是很好奇：我們有沒有需要解決的衝突和群居問題？ 伊莎貝爾：記住——你在和我的想法約會而不是我 簡·麥格尼格爾：這是一張突破重重困難的人臉接近於華麗制勝之時 雷恩：華麗制勝？ 簡：華麗制勝就是一個超出尋常的好的結果以至於你在達成它前根本不知道這是可能的 你沒有在做那張臉你在做那張“我生活不盡如意”的臉 雷恩：亞瑟，我想跟你老實說我在尋找其他的想法，好嗎？我在到處約會這是當前的情況 亞瑟·本傑明：我想說，數學不是一直在解決x未知數它也在想辦法解決“為什麼” 雷恩：你想去吃一些派嗎？ 亞瑟：π？3.14159265358979—— 雷吉·沃茨：如果我們想去做什麼事我們就需要做一個決定因為如果沒有了決定，我們就是沒有力量的沒了力量我們就沒法供給那些真正好奇的人的鏈環去解決我們現在的情景問題 雷恩：還有，“如果你選擇不去決定，那麼你還是做了一個選擇”——咳 簡：對了！這就是一張我們需要看到的在世界上數以百萬的問題解決者臉上當我們試著想要處理下一個世紀的新的挑戰 雷恩：所以，我們要各付自己的賬嗎？ 亞瑟：384626433832795028841...971？ 雷恩：找一晚上，想去看個電影或怎麼樣嘛？ 羅恩：當然不！來一起種些廢物！ 雷恩：一起種些廢物！好，現在我在種的是什麼？ 倭黑猩猩！ 伊莎貝爾：倭黑猩猩！（笑聲） 倭黑猩猩 雷吉：嗯，感興趣嗎？ 雷恩：我想要你的想法寶貝 雷吉：好吧，你知道他們在俄羅斯怎麼說的嗎 雷恩：嗯？ 雷吉：“scuberfinckle”
