Talk	en	zh-tw
raymond_wang_how_germs_travel_on_planes_and_how_we_can_stop_them	"Can I get a show of hands — how many of you in this room have been on a plane in this past year? That's pretty good. Well, it turns out that you share that experience with more than three billion people every year. And when we put so many people in all these metal tubes that fly all over the world, sometimes, things like this can happen and you get a disease epidemic. I first actually got into this topic when I heard about the Ebola outbreak last year. And it turns out that, although Ebola spreads through these more range-limited, large-droplet routes, there's all these other sorts of diseases that can be spread in the airplane cabin. The worst part is, when we take a look at some of the numbers, it's pretty scary. So with H1N1, there was this guy that decided to go on the plane and in the matter of a single flight actually spread the disease to 17 other people. And then there was this other guy with SARS, who managed to go on a three-hour flight and spread the disease to 22 other people. That's not exactly my idea of a great superpower. When we take a look at this, what we also find is that it's very difficult to pre-screen for these diseases. So when someone actually goes on a plane, they could be sick and they could actually be in this latency period in which they could actually have the disease but not exhibit any symptoms, and they could, in turn, spread the disease to many other people in the cabin. How that actually works is that right now we've got air coming in from the top of the cabin and from the side of the cabin, as you see in blue. And then also, that air goes out through these very efficient filters that eliminate 99.97 percent of pathogens near the outlets. What happens right now, though, is that we have this mixing airflow pattern. So if someone were to actually sneeze, that air would get swirled around multiple times before it even has a chance to go out through the filter. So I thought: clearly, this is a pretty serious problem. I didn't have the money to go out and buy a plane, so I decided to build a computer instead. It actually turns out that with computational fluid dynamics, what we're able to do is create these simulations that give us higher resolutions than actually physically going in and taking readings in the plane. And so how, essentially, this works is you would start out with these 2D drawings — these are floating around in technical papers around the Internet. I take that and then I put it into this 3D-modeling software, really building that 3D model. And then I divide that model that I just built into these tiny pieces, essentially meshing it so that the computer can better understand it. And then I tell the computer where the air goes in and out of the cabin, throw in a bunch of physics and basically sit there and wait until the computer calculates the simulation. So what we get, actually, with the conventional cabin is this: you'll notice the middle person sneezing, and we go ""Splat!"" — it goes right into people's faces. It's pretty disgusting. From the front, you'll notice those two passengers sitting next to the central passenger not exactly having a great time. And when we take a look at that from the side, you'll also notice those pathogens spreading across the length of the cabin. The first thing I thought was, ""This is no good."" So I actually conducted more than 32 different simulations and ultimately, I came up with this solution right here. This is what I call a — patent pending — Global Inlet Director. With this, we're able to reduce pathogen transmission by about 55 times, and increase fresh-air inhalation by about 190 percent. So how this actually works is we would install this piece of composite material into these existing spots that are already in the plane. So it's very cost-effective to install and we can do this directly overnight. All we have to do is put a couple of screws in there and you're good to go. And the results that we get are absolutely amazing. Instead of having those problematic swirling airflow patterns, we can create these walls of air that come down in-between the passengers to create personalized breathing zones. So you'll notice the middle passenger here is sneezing again, but this time, we're able to effectively push that down to the filters for elimination. And same thing from the side, you'll notice we're able to directly push those pathogens down. So if you take a look again now at the same scenario but with this innovation installed, you'll notice the middle passenger sneezes, and this time, we're pushing that straight down into the outlet before it gets a chance to infect any other people. So you'll notice the two passengers sitting next to the middle guy are breathing virtually no pathogens at all. Take a look at that from the side as well, you see a very efficient system. And in short, with this system, we win. When we take a look at what this means, what we see is that this not only works if the middle passenger sneezes, but also if the window-seat passenger sneezes or if the aisle-seat passenger sneezes. And so with this solution, what does this mean for the world? Well, when we take a look at this from the computer simulation into real life, we can see with this 3D model that I built over here, essentially using 3D printing, we can see those same airflow patterns coming down, right to the passengers. In the past, the SARS epidemic actually cost the world about 40 billion dollars. And in the future, a big disease outbreak could actually cost the world in excess of three trillion dollars. So before, it used to be that you had to take an airplane out of service for one to two months, spend tens of thousands of man hours and several million dollars to try to change something. But now, we're able to install something essentially overnight and see results right away. So it's really now a matter of taking this through to certification, flight testing, and going through all of these regulatory approvals processes. But it just really goes to show that sometimes the best solutions are the simplest solutions. And two years ago, even, this project would not have happened, just because the technology then wouldn't have supported it. But now with advanced computing and how developed our Internet is, it's really the golden era for innovation. And so the question I ask all of you today is: why wait? Together, we can build the future today. Thanks. (Applause)"	可不可以請大家舉一下手——這裡有多少人，在過去一年有搭過飛機？非常好，事實證明，你與每年超過三十億的人口分享了同樣的飛行經歷。當我們把這麼多人放在那些全世界滿天飛的金屬艙里時，有時會發生這樣的事情：比如傳染性疾病的感染。 我最初進入這個課題是在去年聽說了埃博拉疫情爆發的時候。事實證明，儘管埃博拉病毒是在很有限的範圍內，以飛沫傳染的方式進行傳播的，但仍有很多其它的疾病會在機艙中傳播。最糟的是，當我們看到這些數據時，真的令人感到害怕。假如一個攜帶有H1N1病毒的傢伙決定了要登上飛機，光是單次航班，他就會把疾病傳播給17個人。再假如還有另一個傢伙感染了SARS，登上了一個三小時的航班，那麼他可以把疾病傳播給22個人。我沒有料想到病毒在飛機上的傳播力如此驚人。 看一下這張圖，我們會發現，要事先篩檢出這些疾病是非常困難的，所以，那些上了飛機的人他們可能患了疾病，只是當時仍在潛伏期尚未表現出任何症狀，於是他們就可能把疾病傳染給機艙中的其他旅客。 那麼這究竟是如何發生的呢？空氣是由機艙內上方及側邊的出氣口進入，正如圖上的藍色箭頭所示。然後，空氣經由高效的過濾設備排出機艙，其中99.7%的病菌都可被除去。然而，實際情況是，空氣是以複雜的混合氣流模式在機艙內流通，所以如果有人打了噴嚏，周圍空氣就會多次成渦旋態打轉，然後才有機會從過濾器排除。所以我認為，很明顯，這是個嚴重的問題， 我沒有足夠的錢去買台飛機，所以乾脆搞一部電腦來代替。事實表明，利用流體動力學進行模擬，比親自搭飛機採集數據更能精確地得到我們所需要的結果，那麼要如何開始呢？你可以從網路上的技術資料中找到這些二維平面圖。我將它們導入到這個3D模型軟體中，實際地建構一個3D模型。然後把剛才建置的模型分成小部分，有效編排後，讓電腦能夠更好地讀取信息。然後我告訴電腦，機艙內氣體流動的狀況，運用一些物理學知識，然後只要坐在一邊，等電腦模擬出結果就可以了。 所以，傳統機艙中得到的結果是這樣的：你會注意到，當中間這個人打噴嚏時，我們也會“啪的一聲”，被噴得滿臉都是，非常噁心。從正面來看，你會注意到旁邊的兩位乘客也完全無法避免。我們從側面來看，你也會注意病原體可以橫跨整個機艙。 我的第一反應是＂這下真的不妙了＂。所以我又模擬了超過32種不同的情況，最後想到這個辦法。我稱之為全方位進氣導引器（專利申請中），此裝置能將病原體傳播的可能性減少55倍，將空氣清新度提升190%。 那麼它具體是怎麼工作的呢？我們只需要把這塊複合材料裝在飛機上現有的氣孔上，這非常合乎成本效益，工期非常短。我們只要鎖上螺絲便大功告成，結果讓我們很驚訝。避開了那些有問題的漩渦氣流模式，取而代之的是，我們在乘客中間建立了這些空氣牆，來創造出私人的呼吸領域。 這樣你會發現當中間的乘客再打噴嚏時，我們就能夠有效地迫使帶有病菌的空氣向下流動，直接經由過濾器排出。同樣從側邊再看一下，你可以注意到我們也可以將這些氣體直接下沉。安裝了這個新的設計，現在再看一下同樣的情形，你會發現中間乘客打噴嚏時，這次我們能夠在病原體感染其他人之前，直接把牠傳送到濾氣孔。所以，你可以注意到，中間乘客身邊的兩位乘客完全不會吸入病菌。也可以從側面看出，這个系統非常有效。 總而言之，有了這個系統，我們贏了。所以當我們再進一步看看它的效果時，可以看到，這不僅在中間位置的乘客打噴嚏時有效，也對窗邊或者走道邊的乘客非常有效。 那麼，這個解決方案對世界有甚麼意義？現在我們從電腦模擬轉移到現實生活中來，在利用3D列印做好這個3D模型後，我們能夠看到氣流直接對著乘客往下流動。過去， 流感SARS讓整個世界損失大約四百億元。未來，一場嚴重傳染性疾病的爆發可能花費全球超過三萬億美元。過去，你通常得讓飛機停飛一兩個月，投入好幾萬小時的人力、花數百萬元來試著解決一些問題。但現在，我們只需花上一個晚上安裝一下這個東西，馬上就可以看到結果。 實際上，現在只需要把這個結果拿去認證，進行飛行測試，再通過這些常規的批准過程就可以了。這也說明，有時候最好的辦法其實就是最簡單的方式。但在兩年前，這個項目根本沒有辦法實施，只因為當時的技術還不夠成熟。但如今，有了先進的運算方式及網路的蓬勃發展，現在正是創新的黃金時代。 所以我今天要問大家的是：『還在等什麼？』以我們共同的力量，我們今天就可以創造未來。 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
