Talk	en	zh-tw
rebecca_brachman_could_a_drug_prevent_depression_and_ptsd	"This is a tuberculosis ward, and at the time this picture was taken in the late 1800s, one in seven of all people died from tuberculosis. We had no idea what was causing this disease. The hypothesis was actually it was your constitution that made you susceptible. And it was a highly romanticized disease. It was also called consumption, and it was the disorder of poets and artists and intellectuals. And some people actually thought it gave you heightened sensitivity and conferred creative genius. By the 1950s, we instead knew that tuberculosis was caused by a highly contagious bacterial infection, which is slightly less romantic, but that had the upside of us being able to maybe develop drugs to treat it. So doctors had discovered a new drug, iproniazid, that they were optimistic might cure tuberculosis, and they gave it to patients, and patients were elated. They were more social, more energetic. One medical report actually says they were ""dancing in the halls."" And unfortunately, this was not necessarily because they were getting better. A lot of them were still dying. Another medical report describes them as being ""inappropriately happy."" And that is how the first antidepressant was discovered. So accidental discovery is not uncommon in science, but it requires more than just a happy accident. You have to be able to recognize it for discovery to occur. As a neuroscientist, I'm going to talk to you a little bit about my firsthand experience with whatever you want to call the opposite of dumb luck — let's call it smart luck. But first, a bit more background. Thankfully, since the 1950s, we've developed some other drugs and we can actually now cure tuberculosis. And at least in the United States, though not necessarily in other countries, we have closed our sanitoriums and probably most of you are not too worried about TB. But a lot of what was true in the early 1900s about infectious disease, we can say now about psychiatric disorders. We are in the middle of an epidemic of mood disorders like depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. One in four of all adults in the United States suffers from mental illness, which means that if you haven't experienced it personally or someone in your family hasn't, it's still very likely that someone you know has, though they may not talk about it. Depression has actually now surpassed HIV/AIDS, malaria, diabetes and war as the leading cause of disability worldwide. And also, like tuberculosis in the 1950s, we don't know what causes it. Once it's developed, it's chronic, lasts a lifetime, and there are no known cures. The second antidepressant we discovered, also by accident, in the 1950s, from an antihistamine that was making people manic, imipramine. And in both the case of the tuberculosis ward and the antihistamine, someone had to be able to recognize that a drug that was designed to do one thing — treat tuberculosis or suppress allergies — could be used to do something very different — treat depression. And this sort of repurposing is actually quite challenging. When doctors first saw this mood-enhancing effect of iproniazid, they didn't really recognize what they saw. They were so used to thinking about it from the framework of being a tuberculosis drug that they actually just listed it as a side effect, an adverse side effect. As you can see here, a lot of these patients in 1954 are experiencing severe euphoria. And they were worried that this might somehow interfere with their recovering from tuberculosis. So they recommended that iproniazid only be used in cases of extreme TB and in patients that were highly emotionally stable, which is of course the exact opposite of how we use it as an antidepressant. They were so used to looking at it from the perspective of this one disease, they could not see the larger implications for another disease. And to be fair, it's not entirely their fault. Functional fixedness is a bias that affects all of us. It's a tendency to only be able to think of an object in terms of its traditional use or function. And mental set is another thing. Right? That's sort of this preconceived framework with which we approach problems. And that actually makes repurposing pretty hard for all of us, which is, I guess, why they gave a TV show to the guy who was, like, really great at repurposing. (Laughter) So the effects in both the case of iproniazid and imipramine, they were so strong — there was mania, or people dancing in the halls. It's actually not that surprising they were caught. But it does make you wonder what else we've missed. So iproniazid and imipramine, they're more than just a case study in repurposing. They have two other things in common that are really important. One, they have terrible side effects. That includes liver toxicity, weight gain of over 50 pounds, suicidality. And two, they both increase levels of serotonin, which is a chemical signal in the brain, or a neurotransmitter. And those two things together, right, one or the two, may not have been that important, but the two together meant that we had to develop safer drugs, and that serotonin seemed like a pretty good place to start. So we developed drugs to more specifically focus on serotonin, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, so the SSRIs, the most famous of which is Prozac. And that was 30 years ago, and since then we have mostly just worked on optimizing those drugs. And the SSRIs, they are better than the drugs that came before them, but they still have a lot of side effects, including weight gain, insomnia, suicidality — and they take a really long time to work, something like four to six weeks in a lot of patients. And that's in the patients where they do work. There are a lot of patients where these drugs don't work. And that means now, in 2016, we still have no cures for any mood disorders, just drugs that suppress symptoms, which is kind of the difference between taking a painkiller for an infection versus an antibiotic. A painkiller will make you feel better, but is not going to do anything to treat that underlying disease. And it was this flexibility in our thinking that let us recognize that iproniazid and imipramine could be repurposed in this way, which led us to the serotonin hypothesis, which we then, ironically, fixated on. This is brain signaling, serotonin, from an SSRI commercial. In case you're not clear, this is a dramatization. And in science, we try and remove our bias, right, by running double-blinded experiments or being statistically agnostic as to what our results will be. But bias creeps in more insidiously in what we choose to study and how we choose to study it. So we've focused on serotonin now for the past 30 years, often to the exclusion of other things. We still have no cures, and what if serotonin isn't all there is to depression? What if it's not even the key part of it? That means no matter how much time or money or effort we put into it, it will never lead to a cure. In the past few years, doctors have discovered probably what is the first truly new antidepressant since the SSRIs, Calypsol, and this drug works very quickly, within a few hours or a day, and it doesn't work on serotonin. It works on glutamate, which is another neurotransmitter. And it's also repurposed. It was traditionally used as anesthesia in surgery. But unlike those other drugs, which were recognized pretty quickly, it took us 20 years to realize that Calypsol was an antidepressant, despite the fact that it's actually a better antidepressant, probably, than those other drugs. It's actually probably because of the fact that it's a better antidepressant that it was harder for us to recognize. There was no mania to signal its effects. So in 2013, up at Columbia University, I was working with my colleague, Dr. Christine Ann Denny, and we were studying Calypsol as an antidepressant in mice. And Calypsol has, like, a really short half-life, which means it's out of your body within a few hours. And we were just piloting. So we would give an injection to mice, and then we'd wait a week, and then we'd run another experiment to save money. And one of the experiments I was running, we would stress the mice, and we used that as a model of depression. And at first it kind of just looked like it didn't really work at all. So we could have stopped there. But I have run this model of depression for years, and the data just looked kind of weird. It didn't really look right to me. So I went back, and we reanalyzed it based on whether or not they had gotten that one injection of Calypsol a week beforehand. And it looked kind of like this. So if you look at the far left, if you put a mouse in a new space, this is the box, it's very exciting, a mouse will walk around and explore, and you can see that pink line is actually the measure of them walking. And we also give it another mouse in a pencil cup that it can decide to interact with. This is also a dramatization, in case that's not clear. And a normal mouse will explore. It will be social. Check out what's going on. If you stress a mouse in this depression model, which is the middle box, they aren't social, they don't explore. They mostly just kind of hide in that back corner, behind a cup. Yet the mice that had gotten that one injection of Calypsol, here on your right, they were exploring, they were social. They looked like they had never been stressed at all, which is impossible. So we could have just stopped there, but Christine had also used Calypsol before as anesthesia, and a few years ago she had seen that it seemed to have some weird effects on cells and some other behavior that also seemed to last long after the drug, maybe a few weeks. So we were like, OK, maybe this is not completely impossible, but we were really skeptical. So we did what you do in science when you're not sure, and we ran it again. And I remember being in the animal room, moving mice from box to box to test them, and Christine was actually sitting on the floor with the computer in her lap so the mice couldn't see her, and she was analyzing the data in real time. And I remember us yelling, which you're not supposed to do in an animal room where you're testing, because it had worked. It seemed like these mice were protected against stress, or they were inappropriately happy, however you want to call it. And we were really excited. And then we were really skeptical, because it was too good to be true. So we ran it again. And then we ran it again in a PTSD model, and we ran it again in a physiological model, where all we did was give stress hormones. And we had our undergrads run it. And then we had our collaborators halfway across the world in France run it. And every time someone ran it, they confirmed the same thing. It seemed like this one injection of Calypsol was somehow protecting against stress for weeks. And we only published this a year ago, but since then other labs have independently confirmed this effect. So we don't know what causes depression, but we do know that stress is the initial trigger in 80 percent of cases, and depression and PTSD are different diseases, but this is something they share in common. Right? It is traumatic stress like active combat or natural disasters or community violence or sexual assault that causes post-traumatic stress disorder, and not everyone that is exposed to stress develops a mood disorder. And this ability to experience stress and be resilient and bounce back and not develop depression or PTSD is known as stress resilience, and it varies between people. And we have always thought of it as just sort of this passive property. It's the absence of susceptibility factors and risk factors for these disorders. But what if it were active? Maybe we could enhance it, sort of akin to putting on armor. We had accidentally discovered the first resilience-enhancing drug. And like I said, we only gave a tiny amount of the drug, and it lasted for weeks, and that's not like anything you see with antidepressants. But it is actually kind of similar to what you see in immune vaccines. So in immune vaccines, you'll get your shots, and then weeks, months, years later, when you're actually exposed to bacteria, it's not the vaccine in your body that protects you. It's your own immune system that's developed resistance and resilience to this bacteria that fights it off, and you actually never get the infection, which is very different from, say, our treatments. Right? In that case, you get the infection, you're exposed to the bacteria, you're sick, and then you take, say, an antibiotic which cures it, and those drugs are actually working to kill the bacteria. Or similar to as I said before, with this palliative, you'll take something that will suppress the symptoms, but it won't treat the underlying infection, and you'll only feel better during the time in which you're taking it, which is why you have to keep taking it. And in depression and PTSD — here we have your stress exposure — we only have palliative care. Antidepressants only suppress symptoms, and that is why you basically have to keep taking them for the life of the disease, which is often the length of your own life. So we're calling our resilience-enhancing drugs ""paravaccines,"" which means vaccine-like, because it seems like they might have the potential to protect against stress and prevent mice from developing depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Also, not all antidepressants are also paravaccines. We tried Prozac as well, and that had no effect. So if this were to translate into humans, we might be able to protect people who are predictably at risk against stress-induced disorders like depression and PTSD. So that's first responders and firefighters, refugees, prisoners and prison guards, soldiers, you name it. And to give you a sense of the scale of these diseases, in 2010, the global burden of disease was estimated at 2.5 trillion dollars, and since they are chronic, that cost is compounding and is therefore expected to rise up to six trillion dollars in just the next 15 years. As I mentioned before, repurposing can be challenging because of our prior biases. Calypsol has another name, ketamine, which also goes by another name, Special K, which is a club drug and drug of abuse. It's still used across the world as an anesthetic. It's used in children. We use it on the battlefield. It's actually the drug of choice in a lot of developing nations, because it doesn't affect breathing. It is on the World Health Organization list of most essential medicines. If we had discovered ketamine as a paravaccine first, it'd be pretty easy for us to develop it, but as is, we have to compete with our functional fixedness and mental set that kind of interfere. Fortunately, it's not the only compound we have discovered that has these prophylactic, paravaccine qualities, but all of the other drugs we've discovered, or compounds if you will, they're totally new, they have to go through the entire FDA approval process — if they make it before they can ever be used in humans. And that will be years. So if we wanted something sooner, ketamine is already FDA-approved. It's generic, it's available. We could develop it for a fraction of the price and a fraction of the time. But actually, beyond functional fixedness and mental set, there's a real other challenge to repurposing drugs, which is policy. There are no incentives in place once a drug is generic and off patent and no longer exclusive to encourage pharma companies to develop them, because they don't make money. And that's not true for just ketamine. That is true for all drugs. Regardless, the idea itself is completely novel in psychiatry, to use drugs to prevent mental illness as opposed to just treat it. It is possible that 20, 50, 100 years from now, we will look back now at depression and PTSD the way we look back at tuberculosis sanitoriums as a thing of the past. This could be the beginning of the end of the mental health epidemic. But as a great scientist once said, ""Only a fool is sure of anything. A wise man keeps on guessing."" Thank you, guys. (Applause)"	這是一間結核病的病房，這張照片拍攝於 19 世紀晚期，那個時候，每七個人之中就有一個人死於結核病。當時沒人知道這種疾病的病因是什麼。只能猜想是因為體質因素讓人染病。結核病當時還是一種被高度浪漫化的疾病，它又被稱為憔悴症，被視為是詩人、藝術家和知識分子才有的失調病症。有些人甚至認為它會讓人極為敏感並賦予創造才華。 到了 1950 年代，我們知道了結核病是由一種高傳染性的細菌感染所引起，這就不那麼浪漫了。但這個發現也帶來了好消息，那就是我們可能可以研發藥物治療結核病。所以醫生發明了一種新藥──異菸鹼異丙醯肼，希望可以治癒結核病。他們把這種藥給病人用，病人都欣喜若狂，變得更樂於社交，更充滿活力，一份醫療報告甚至稱病人們都「在走廊上跳舞」。不幸的是，這並不一定是因為他們的病情有所好轉。許多病人仍瀕臨死亡。另一份醫療報告說這些病人「開心得不正常」。這就是第一種抗抑鬱劑的研發歷史。 意外發現在科學中很常見，但是僅僅有幸運的意外是不夠的。你還需要有辨識出它的能力。 作為一個神經學家，我要和大家分享我自己的親身經歷。我的經歷也充滿了意外，就讓我們稱它為有心的意外吧。首先，我要多講一些背景。 非常幸運地，自從1950 年代以來，我們研發了其他可以治癒結核病的藥物。儘管其他國家還可能存在結核病，至少在美國我們關閉了結核病療養院，大多數人也不太擔憂患結核病。但是 20 世紀早期，關於傳染病的種種狀況現在正在精神疾病領域上演。 我們正處於精神疾病氾濫的年代，抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患就是精神疾病的兩個例子。在美國，每四個成年人中就有一個患有精神病，這就意味著即使你或你的家人沒有精神類疾病，你認識的人當中很可能有精神病患者，即使他們不談論自己的疾病。抑鬱症已經超過愛滋病、瘧疾、糖尿病、戰爭，成為世界上導致殘疾的首要因素。就像 1950 年代的結核病一樣，抑鬱症目前病因不明。一旦發病，這種慢性病會持續一生，而且目前無法治癒。 在 1950 年代，我們從一種抗組織胺藥中意外地發現了第二種抗抑鬱的藥物。這種會使人感到興奮的藥物是伊米帕明。在這兩個關於結核病和抗組織胺藥例子中，必須要有人意識到原本發明用來治療結核病或過敏的藥物，可能用在非常不同的方面──治療抑鬱症。這種改變用途的作法其實困難重重。當醫生第一次見到異菸鹼異丙醯肼對情緒的影響時，他們並沒有意識到這個成效，他們一貫的想法就是異菸鹼異丙醯肼是治療結核病的藥物，以至於他們認為他們所見到的是藥物的副作用，而且是不良的副作用。 像這張圖片中顯示的，1954 年很多病人患有嚴重的欣快症。醫生甚至擔心這會影響病人的結核病情。所以他們建議，只有病症十分嚴重，而且病人情緒十分穩定時，才使用異菸鹼異丙醯肼，這與我們今天用這種藥物來抗抑鬱的情形正好相反。他們太習慣從結核病的角度來考量這種藥物，以至於他們不能意識到它對其他疾病更大的作用。 說句公道話，這也不是他們的錯，我們所有人都受功能固著影響。功能固著使我們看到一種事物時，傾向只想到其傳統固有的作用和功能。思維定式是另一回事，對吧？那是我們處理問題的時候所使用的先入為主框架。這使得我們都很難為事物想出新用途，所以那些總能舊物新用的人才有機會上電視吧！ （笑聲） 異菸鹼異丙醯肼和伊米帕明藥效都很強，服用的人會變得狂躁，有些人會興奮得在走廊上跳舞。所以發現他們的抑鬱作用不讓人意外。但這讓我們不免懷疑，是不是漏了什麼。異菸鹼異丙醯肼和伊米帕明不僅僅是舊藥新用的例子，他們還有另外兩個重要的共同點。第一，他們都有巨大的副作用，包括肝中毒、體重增加超過 20 公斤、自殺傾向等。第二，他們都會增加血清素的分泌量。血清素是大腦中的一種化學信號，或稱為神經傳遞質。單一種副作用可能不那麼重要，但是這兩種副作用同時出現，使得研發更安全的藥物十分必要。血清素就是我們研發新藥的起點。 所以我們研發了專門針對血清素的藥物，選擇性血清素再吸收抑制劑，又稱 SSRIs。百憂解是 SSRIs 中最著名的了。這是 30 年前的事情了，自那之後，我們主要就在優化這些藥物。SSRIs 比之前的藥物要好，但是他們仍然有很多副作用，包括體重增加、失眠、自殺傾向。SSRIs 發揮藥效也非常緩慢，很多病人要服用四到六週才能見效。這還是對病人有效的情況。對於另一些病人，這類藥是無效的。 這就意味著直到現在，2016 年，我們仍然沒有治療任何精神病的藥物，只有可以緩解症狀的藥物。這其中的區別就像是治療感染時，是服用止痛藥，還是服用抗生素。止痛藥可以減緩症狀，但是並不能治療引起這些症狀的疾病。我們思維的可變通性讓我們意識到異菸鹼異丙醯肼和伊米帕明可以被用作治療抑鬱症，也使我們注意到血清素，諷刺的是，我們就此失去了可變通性。這是來自一個 SSRI 廣告的血清素大腦訊號。這是誇大的表現形式。在科學領域，我們盡力去除偏見，像是進行雙盲實驗，或不預設實驗結果以免干擾統計過程。但是我們的研究方向和研究方法也是偏見的一種潛在表現形式。 我們專注於血清素的研究已經達 30 年之久，放棄了很多研究其他藥物的機會。我們仍然沒有找到治療方法，萬一血清素不足以治癒抑鬱症呢？萬一血清素不是治癒抑鬱症的關鍵呢？那將會意味著不管我們投入多少時間、金錢或心血，我們仍然不能治癒抑鬱症。 過去的幾年間，醫生研發了自 SSRIs 以來第一種真正的新抗抑鬱劑，可利普索 (Calypsol)。這種藥見效很快，幾個小時到一天就見效，而且不是透過血清素發揮作用，而是透過另一種神經傳遞質──麩胺酸──發揮作用的。這也是舊藥新用的例子。那本來是手術中的麻醉藥。不像之前的幾種藥物都在短時間內被發現抗抑鬱的功效，我們花費了 20 年才發現可利普索的抗抑鬱功效，即使它抗抑鬱的功效可能比其他幾種藥物都要好。可能正是因為它的抗抑鬱效果好，我們更不容易發現它的藥效。沒有引起狂躁，所以沒人發現藥效。 2013 年，在哥倫比亞大學，我和我的同事，克里斯汀．安．丹尼博士，一起研究可利普索作為老鼠的抗抑鬱劑。可利普索的半衰期很短，所以幾小時內就被代謝出體外。我們做了些嘗識性的實驗。我們給老鼠注射這種藥，等待一週，然後重複實驗，來到達省錢的目的。 在一次試驗中，我們對老鼠施壓，以模仿人類的抑鬱狀態。起初這種方法看起來並沒有任何效果。我們本可就此停止實驗。但是這麼多年同抑鬱模型打交道的經驗告訴我，這些數據有些不尋常。我察覺到了一些異樣。所以我仔細檢查並重新分析了實驗結果，著重分析這些老鼠是不是在一週之前已經被注射過一次可利普索。結果看起來就像這張圖片。看最左邊的這張圖，一隻老鼠被放到了一個新的空間，在這個新盒子裡，牠很興奮。牠在盒子裡爬來爬去的探索，這些粉紅色線就是牠爬行的軌跡。我們還把另一隻老鼠放到筆筒裡，這樣牠就可以和這隻老鼠互動。這也是誇張的表現形式，大家不要誤會。一隻正常的老鼠會探索新空間，和其他老鼠社交，觀察周圍發生的事情。如果你施壓讓老鼠進入抑鬱狀態，像中間的圖所示，牠就不會社交，不探索新空間，大多時間就是躲在角落的杯子後面。然而那些被注射過可利普索的老鼠，如右圖所示，牠們仍然探索新空間，仍然社交，就像我們不曾施加壓力一樣。這是不可能的。 我們本來可就此止步。但是克里斯汀曾把可利普索當做麻醉劑使用，在幾年之前她就觀察到這種藥物對細胞和其他一些行為有奇怪的影響，這些影響會持續一段時間，大概幾週左右。我們就想，好吧，這大概也不是完全不可能發生的，但是很值得懷疑。 就像在科學領域遇到其他你不確定的事情一樣，我們重複了實驗。我還記得當時我在動物室，把老鼠從一個盒子移到另一個以檢測牠們的狀態，克里斯汀坐在地板上，大腿上放著電腦，這樣老鼠就看不到她了，她就同步分析著數據。我記得我們大叫了，儘管在實驗進行中的動物室大叫是不恰當的，因為這種藥見效了。這些老鼠似乎對壓力狀態產生抗體，或者你也可以說牠們開心得不正常。我們非常興奮。 然後我們不敢相信，因為這個結果好得有點不真實。所以我們重複了實驗。在創傷後壓力疾患的模型下重複了實驗。又在生理模型中做了一次，這部分只給老鼠注射焦慮荷爾蒙。然後讓大學生重複實驗。我們讓在世界另一端法國的共同研究者重複實驗。所有重複實驗的人都確認了同樣的結果。看起來注射一次可利普索，可以使人幾週內都對焦慮免疫。 我們在一年前發表了這個實驗結果，那之後其他實驗室也獨立驗證了這個結果。我們不知道抑鬱症的病因是什麼，但是我們知道百分之八十的抑鬱症都是壓力引起的。抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患是不同的病，但是它們有一個共同點，那就是它們都由巨大的精神壓力引起，像戰鬥、自然災害、社區暴力、性侵，這些會引起創傷後壓力疾患，並不是每一個經歷精神壓力的人都會出現精神疾病。這種在經歷壓力後能發揮韌性、迅速復原，而不患抑鬱症或創傷後壓力疾患的能力，被稱作抗壓性。抗壓性因人而異。我們之前一直把抗壓性當做一種被動屬性，一種對疾病的不易感染性和不受影響性。但這會不會其實是一種積極屬性呢？也許我們能增強這種屬性，像多加一件盔甲一樣。 我們意外發現了第一種提升抗壓性的藥物。我剛剛提到了，我們只給老鼠一點點這種藥，藥效卻持續了數週。這是任何抗抑鬱劑都做不到的。 這其實有點像免疫疫苗。如果你接種了疫苗，數週、數月、數年後，你接觸到細菌的時候，保護你的不是你接種的疫苗，而是你的免疫系統，它產生了對這種細菌的抵抗力，從而能夠殺菌。你就永遠不會感染這種細菌了。這和治療不同，對吧？說到治療，你會先暴露在細菌中，感染疾病，生病後你會服用治療性藥物，比如說抗生素，這些藥物會殺死細菌。或者像我之前描述的，你會服用緩解劑，來緩解症狀，但是並不從根本上治療疾病，只是服用緩解劑的時候你會覺得好一點，所以你需要一直服用緩解劑。針對抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患──圖中顯示了人承受的精神壓力──我們只有舒緩醫學。抗抑鬱劑只能舒緩症狀，這就是為什麼基本上你需要一直服用藥物，直到這種疾病結束，這一般也是病人生命結束的時候。 所以我們稱這種提升抗壓性的藥物「類疫苗」，就是說它像疫苗一樣，因為它們似乎有預防壓力的潛力，可以預防老鼠患抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患。而且，並不是所有的抗抑鬱劑都是類疫苗。我們也測試了百憂解，沒有任何效果。 如果我們把類疫苗應用到人類身上，我們可能就可以保護那些非常容易受到像抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患這種壓力引起的疾病影響的人了。這些人包括急救者、消防隊員、難民、囚犯、監獄守衛、士兵等等。 這些疾病有多大的規模呢，2010 年，這類疾病給全球造成經濟損失約 2.5 兆美元，而且因為這些都是慢性病，經濟損失也會逐年增加，預計在未來的 15 年內會增加到六兆美元。 像我剛剛講的，舊藥新用是很困難的，因為我們有先入為主的偏見。可利普索有另一個名字，氯胺酮，也被稱為K 他命，是夜店裡的娛樂性藥物，也是被濫用的藥物。在世界各地仍被用來當麻醉劑使用。用在兒童身上，我們在戰場上也使用它。它其實還是很多發展中國家優先選擇的藥物，因為它不會影響呼吸。它也被世界衛生組織列入最基本的藥物。 如果我們最初是把氯胺酮當做類疫苗研發出來，那麼繼續發展它的這個功效就會很容易。但事實是，我們要對抗自己的功能固著和思維定式等干預。幸運的是，這並不是我們所發現的唯一一種具有預防疾病的類疫苗化合物，但我們所發現的其他的類似藥物，或者說是化合物，都是從未被使用過的，必須要經過食品藥物管理局批准，批准不過的話，可能永遠沒人有機會服用。即使批准過了，也會花費數年。如果我們想要很快能用的藥物，氯胺酮已經被管理局批准了。它很普遍，也容易買到。優化它會花費比較少的金錢和比較短的時間。 但其實，除了功能固著和思維定式，還有一個阻礙舊藥新用的因素，那就是政策。一旦一種藥物變得普及，並且不再受專利保護，製藥公司就沒有研發它的動力了，因為他們研發這種藥賺不到錢。這種情況不僅適用於氯胺酮，也適用於所有的藥。儘管如此，在精神病學領域，這種透過藥物預防心理疾病，而不是發病後治療的想法，是非常新穎的。 也許 20 年，50 年，100 年過後，我們會回顧抑鬱症和創傷後壓力疾患，像我們今天回顧結核病療養院一樣，它們也會成為歷史。我們的發現可能會開啟心理疾病氾濫年代的終結。 但是像一位偉大的科學家曾經說的，「只有蠢人才對一切都有把握。智者總會不斷猜想。」 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
