Talk	en	zh-tw
regina_dugan_from_mach_20_glider_to_humming_bird_drone	"You should be nice to nerds. In fact, I'd go so far as to say, if you don't already have a nerd in your life, you should get one. I'm just saying. Scientists and engineers change the world. I'd like to tell you about a magical place called DARPA where scientists and engineers defy the impossible and refuse to fear failure. Now these two ideas are connected more than you may realize, because when you remove the fear of failure, impossible things suddenly become possible. If you want to know how, ask yourself this question: What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail? If you really ask yourself this question, you can't help but feel uncomfortable. I feel a little uncomfortable. Because when you ask it, you begin to understand how the fear of failure constrains you, how it keeps us from attempting great things, and life gets dull, amazing things stop happening. Sure, good things happen, but amazing things stop happening. Now I should be clear, I'm not encouraging failure, I'm discouraging fear of failure. Because it's not failure itself that constrains us. The path to truly new, never-been-done-before things always has failure along the way. We're tested. And in part, that testing feels an appropriate part of achieving something great. Clemenceau said, ""Life gets interesting when we fail, because it's a sign that we've surpassed ourselves."" In 1895, Lord Kelvin declared that heavier-than-air flying machines were impossible. In October of 1903, the prevailing opinion of expert aerodynamicists was that maybe in 10 million years we could build an aircraft that would fly. And two months later on December 17th, Orville Wright powered the first airplane across a beach in North Carolina. The flight lasted 12 seconds and covered 120 feet. That was 1903. One year later, the next declarations of impossibilities began. Ferdinand Foch, a French army general credited with having one of the most original and subtle minds in the French army, said, ""Airplanes are interesting toys, but of no military value."" 40 years later, aero experts coined the term transonic. They debated, should it have one S or two? You see, they were having trouble in this flight regime, and it wasn't at all clear that we could fly faster than the speed of sound. In 1947, there was no wind tunnel data beyond Mach 0.85. And yet, on Tuesday, October 14th, 1947, Chuck Yeager climbed into the cockpit of his Bell X-1 and he flew towards an unknown possibility, and in so doing, he became the first pilot to fly faster than the speed of sound. Six of eight Atlas rockets blew up on the pad. After 11 complete mission failures, we got our first images from space. And on that first flight we got more data than in all U-2 missions combined. It took a lot of failures to get there. Since we took to the sky, we have wanted to fly faster and farther. And to do so, we've had to believe in impossible things. And we've had to refuse to fear failure. That's still true today. Today, we don't talk about flying transonically, or even supersonically, we talk about flying hypersonically — not Mach 2 or Mach 3, Mach 20. At Mach 20, we can fly from New York to Long Beach in 11 minutes and 20 seconds. At that speed, the surface of the airfoil is the temperature of molten steel — 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit — like a blast furnace. We are essentially burning the airfoil as we fly it. And we are flying it, or trying to. DARPA's hypersonic test vehicle is the fastest maneuvering aircraft ever built. It's boosted to near-space atop a Minotaur IV rocket. Now the Minotaur IV has too much impulse, so we have to bleed it off by flying the rocket at an 89 degree angle of attack for portions of the trajectory. That's an unnatural act for a rocket. The third stage has a camera. We call it rocketcam. And it's pointed at the hypersonic glider. This is the actual rocketcam footage from flight one. Now to conceal the shape, we changed the aspect ratio a little bit. But this is what it looks like from the third stage of the rocket looking at the unmanned glider as it heads into the atmosphere back towards Earth. We've flown twice. In the first flight, no aerodynamic control of the vehicle. But we collected more hypersonic flight data than in 30 years of ground-based testing combined. And in the second flight, three minutes of fully-controlled, aerodynamic flight at Mach 20. We must fly again, because amazing, never-been-done-before things require that you fly. You can't learn to fly at Mach 20 unless you fly. And while there's no substitute for speed, maneuverability is a very close second. If a Mach 20 glider takes 11 minutes and 20 seconds to get from New York to Long Beach, a hummingbird would take, well, days. You see, hummingbirds are not hypersonic, but they are maneuverable. In fact, the hummingbird is the only bird that can fly backwards. It can fly up, down, forwards, backwards, even upside-down. And so if we wanted to fly in this room or places where humans can't go, we'd need an aircraft small enough and maneuverable enough to do so. This is a hummingbird drone. It can fly in all directions, even backwards. It can hover and rotate. This prototype aircraft is equipped with a video camera. It weighs less than one AA battery. It does not eat nectar. In 2008, it flew for a whopping 20 seconds, a year later, two minutes, then six, eventually 11. Many prototypes crashed — many. But there's no way to learn to fly like a hummingbird unless you fly. (Applause) It's beautiful, isn't it. Wow. It's great. Matt is the first ever hummingbird pilot. (Applause) Failure is part of creating new and amazing things. We cannot both fear failure and make amazing new things — like a robot with the stability of a dog on rough terrain, or maybe even ice; a robot that can run like a cheetah, or climb stairs like a human with the occasional clumsiness of a human. Or perhaps, Spider Man will one day be Gecko Man. A gecko can support its entire body weight with one toe. One square millimeter of a gecko's footpad has 14,000 hair-like structures called setae. They are used to help it grip to surfaces using intermolecular forces. Today we can manufacture structures that mimic the hairs of a gecko's foot. The result, a four-by-four-inch artificial nano-gecko adhesive. can support a static load of 660 pounds. That's enough to stick six 42-inch plasma TV's to your wall, no nails. So much for Velcro, right? And it's not just passive structures, it's entire machines. This is a spider mite. It's one millimeter long, but it looks like Godzilla next to these micromachines. In the world of Godzilla spider mites, we can make millions of mirrors, each one-fifth the diameter of a human hair, moving at hundreds of thousands of times per second to make large screen displays, so that we can watch movies like ""Godzilla"" in high-def. And if we can build machines at that scale, what about Eiffel Tower-like trusses at the microscale? Today we are making metals that are lighter than Styrofoam, so light they can sit atop a dandelion puff and be blown away with a wisp of air — so light that you can make a car that two people can lift, but so strong that it has the crash-worthiness of an SUV. From the smallest wisp of air to the powerful forces of nature's storms. There are 44 lightning strikes per second around the globe. Each lightning bolt heats the air to 44,000 degrees Fahrenheit — hotter than the surface of the Sun. What if we could use these electromagnetic pulses as beacons, beacons in a moving network of powerful transmitters? Experiments suggest that lightning could be the next GPS. Electrical pulses form the thoughts in our brains. Using a grid the size of your thumb, with 32 electrodes on the surface of his brain, Tim uses his thoughts to control an advanced prosthetic arm. And his thoughts made him reach for Katie. This is the first time a human has controlled a robot with thought alone. And it is the first time that Tim has held Katie's hand in seven years. That moment mattered to Tim and Katie, and this green goo may someday matter to you. This green goo is perhaps the vaccine that could save your life. It was made in tobacco plants. Tobacco plants can make millions of doses of vaccine in weeks instead of months, and it might just be the first healthy use of tobacco ever. And if it seems far-fetched that tobacco plants could make people healthy, what about gamers that could solve problems that experts can't solve? Last September, the gamers of Foldit solved the three-dimensional structure of the retroviral protease that contributes to AIDS in rhesus monkeys. Now understanding this structure is very important for developing treatments. For 15 years, it was unsolved in the scientific community. The gamers of Foldit solved it in 15 days. Now they were able to do so by working together. They were able to work together because they're connected by the Internet. And others, also connected to the Internet, used it as an instrument of democracy. And together they changed the fate of their nation. The Internet is home to two billion people, or 30 percent of the world's population. It allows us to contribute and to be heard as individuals. It allows us to amplify our voices and our power as a group. But it too had humble beginnings. In 1969, the internet was but a dream, a few sketches on a piece of paper. And then on October 29th, the first packet-switched message was sent from UCLA to SRI. The first two letters of the word ""Login,"" that's all that made it through — an L and an O — and then a buffer overflow crashed the system. (Laughter) Two letters, an L and an O, now a worldwide force. So who are these scientists and engineers at a magical place called DARPA? They are nerds, and they are heroes among us. They challenge existing perspectives at the edges of science and under the most demanding of conditions. They remind us that we can change the world if we defy the impossible and we refuse to fear failure. They remind us that we all have nerd power. Sometimes we just forget. You see, there was a time when you weren't afraid of failure, when you were a great artist or a great dancer and you could sing, you were good at math, you could build things, you were an astronaut, an adventurer, Jacques Cousteau, you could jump higher, run faster, kick harder than anyone. You believed in impossible things and you were fearless. You were totally and completely in touch with your inner superhero. Scientists and engineers can indeed change the world. So can you. You were born to. So go ahead, ask yourself, what would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail? Now I want to say, this is not easy. It's hard to hold onto this feeling, really hard. I guess in some way, I sort of believe it's supposed to be hard. Doubt and fear always creep in. We think someone else, someone smarter than us, someone more capable, someone with more resources will solve that problem. But there isn't anyone else; there's just you. And if we're lucky, in that moment, someone steps into that doubt and fear, takes a hand and says, ""Let me help you believe."" Jason Harley did that for me. Jason started at DARPA on March 18th, 2010. He was with our transportation team. I saw Jason nearly every day, sometimes twice a day. And more so than most, he saw the highs and the lows, the celebrations and the disappointments. And on one particularly dark day for me, Jason sat down and he wrote an email. He was encouraging, but firm. And when he hit send, he probably didn't realize what a difference it would make. It mattered to me. In that moment and still today when I doubt, when I feel afraid, when I need to reconnect with that feeling, I remember his words, they were so powerful. Text: ""There is only time enough to iron your cape and back to the skies for you."" ♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫ ♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫ ♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫ ♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫ ♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫ Voice: Because that's what being a superhero is all about. RD: ""There is only time enough to iron your cape and back to the skies for you."" And remember, be nice to nerds. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Regina, thank you. I have a couple of questions. So that glider of yours, the Mach 20 glider, the first one, no control, it ended up in the Pacific I think somewhere. RD: Yeah, yeah. It did. (CA: What happened on that second flight?) Yeah, it also went into the Pacific. (CA: But this time under control?) We didn't fly it into the Pacific. No, there are multiple portions of the trajectory that are demanding in terms of really flying at that speed. And so in the second flight, we were able to get three minutes of fully aerodynamic control of the vehicle before we lost it. CA: I imagine you're not planning to open up to passenger service from New York to Long Beach anytime soon. RD: It might be a little warm. CA: What do you picture that glider being used for? RD: Well our responsibility is to develop the technology for this. How it's ultimately used will be determined by the military. Now the purpose of the vehicle though, the purpose of the technology, is to be able to reach anywhere in the world in less than 60 minutes. CA: And to carry a payload of more than a few pounds? (RD: Yeah.) Like what's the payload it could carry? RD: Well I don't think we ultimately know what it will be, right. We've got to fly it first. CA: But not necessarily just a camera? RD: No, not necessarily just a camera. CA: It's amazing. The hummingbird? RD: Yeah? CA: I'm curious, you started your beautiful sequence on flight with a plane kind of trying to flap its wings and failing horribly, and there haven't been that many planes built since that flap wings. Why did we think that this was the time to go biomimicry and copy a hummingbird? Isn't that a very expensive solution for a small maneuverable flying object? RD: So I mean, in part, we wondered if it was possible to do it. And you have to revisit these questions over time. The folks at AeroVironment tried 300 or more different wing designs, 12 different forms of the avionics. It took them 10 full prototypes to get something that would actually fly. But there's something really interesting about a flying machine that looks like something you'd recognize. So we often talk about stealth as a means for avoiding any type of sensing, but when things looks just natural, you also don't see them. CA: Ah. So it's not necessarily just the performance. It's partly the look. (RD: Sure.) It's actually, ""Look at that cute hummingbird flying into my headquarters."" (Laughter) Because I think, as well as the awe of looking at that, I'm sure some people here are thinking, technology catches up so quick, how long is it before some crazed geek with a little remote control flies one through a window of the White House? I mean, do you worry about the Pandora's box issue here? RD: Well look, our singular mission is the creation and prevention of strategic surprise. That's what we do. It would be inconceivable for us to do that work if we didn't make people excited and uncomfortable with the things that we do at the same time. It's just the nature of what we do. Now our responsibility is to push that edge. And we have to be, of course, mindful and responsible of how the technology is developed and ultimately used, but we can't simply close our eyes and pretend that it isn't advancing; it's advancing. CA: I mean, you're clearly a really inspiring leader. And you persuade people to go to these great feats of invention, but at a personal level, in a way I can't imagine doing your job. Do you wake up in the night sometimes, just asking questions about the possibly unintended consequences of your team's brilliance? RD: Sure. I think you couldn't be human if you didn't ask those questions. CA: How do you answer them? RD: Well I don't always have answers for them, right. I think that we learn as time goes on. My job is one of the most exhilarating jobs you could have. I work with some of the most amazing people. And with that exhilaration, comes a really deep sense of responsibility. And so you have on the one hand this tremendous lift of what's possible and this tremendous seriousness of what it means. CA: Regina, that was jaw-dropping, as they say. Thank you so much for coming to TED. (RD: Thank you.) (Applause)"	"你們應該對書獃子們友善一些。事實上，我想說的是如果你還不認識這樣的人，你該想辦法去認識一個。我只是說說。科學家和工程師們能改變這個世界。我想為各位介紹一個非常神奇的單位，它叫做 DARPA (美國國防高等研究計劃署)。在那裡，科學家和工程師們挑戰那些「不可能」並且拒絕害怕「失敗」。這兩個概念的關連性遠比你所想的還要大，因為當你不再害怕失敗的時候，那些不可能的事情突然就變得有可能了。 假如你想這怎麼可能那麼問自己這個問題：如果你知道你不可能會失敗，你會嘗試去做什麼?如果你認真的問自己這個問題，你一定會覺得很不自在我就覺得有點不很自在。因為當你問了這個問題，你就開始了解到「害怕失敗」像個緊箍咒緊緊束縛我們，我們因為害怕失敗不敢去追求美好的事情，而生命從此無趣，不再有美妙的事情發生。當然，好事總會有，但好的不得了的事卻不再發生。 讓我說得更清楚些，我並不鼓勵失敗，而是不鼓勵對失敗的恐懼、害怕。因為失敗本身不會束縛我們。在達成真正創新、從未有人做過的事情的路途上，總要經歷無數次的失敗。這是一種考驗。且在某種程度上來說，這種考驗可以說是要獲得成功的旅途中的一部份。克來門梭 (Clemenceau) 曾說：「失敗讓生命變得有趣，因為這代表我們已超越自我。」 1895年，凱爾文爵士 (Lord Kelvin) 宣稱比空氣重的飛行器是不可能存在的。在1903 年10月，空氣動力學的專家們都認為也許在 1 千萬年後人類才可能做出真正可以飛的飛行器。但在 2 個月後的 12 月 17 日，歐維爾‧萊特 (Orville Wright) 駕駛第一架飛機飛越北卡羅來那州 (North Carolina) 的一個海灘。那趟航程只維持了12 秒，總里程 120 英尺。當時是 1903 年。 一年後，人們又點名了一堆不可能的事。佛迪南‧佛許 (Ferdinand Foch)，一名在法國軍中被大家譽為軍中最有創意且思考細膩的法國將軍，他說：「飛機是很有趣的玩具，但沒有軍事價值。」40 年後，飛航專家創造了「跨音速」 (transonic) 一詞。他們還爭論，這個詞該有一個 s 還是兩個 s ?當時飛行界對超音速飛行可不可能一點把握都沒有1947 年所有在風洞的實驗從未超過 0.85 馬赫 (音速的 0.85 倍)然而1947 年 10 月 14 日，星期二巧克‧葉格 (Chuck Yeager) 登上一架貝爾 X-1 (Bell X-1) 型飛機的駕駛艙，他飛向「可能」，一個從未發生過的「可能」，而這次飛行任務讓他成為歷史上第一個以超音速飛行的人。雅特拉司火箭 (Atlas rockets)，在發射的 8 枚中6 枚在發射台就炸毀了。11 次完全失敗的任務之後我們終於成功的自太空，地球的空拍圖。在那第一次的成功任務中所獲得的資料比所有 U-2 偵察機任務所得資料總和還多。經過許多的失敗才得成功。 自人類飛上天空以來，我們一直都想要飛得更快、飛得更遠。要做到，我們就得相信沒什麼是不可能的。我們也必須拒斥「害怕失敗」這件事。這一點至今亦然。今天，我們已經不談跨入音速飛行或超音速飛行我們談「超高音速」飛行不是 2 馬赫、3 馬赫，而是 20 馬赫。20 馬赫從紐約 (New York) 飛到長灘 (Long Beach)只要 11 分鐘 20 秒。這種速度下機翼表面的溫度可以融化鋼鐵 —華氏 3500 度 (攝氏 1927 度) —跟煉鋼鼓風爐內的溫度一樣。我們根本就是在一邊飛一邊焚燒著機翼。但我們就是要飛這麼快或者試著要要飛這麼快。 DARPA 的超高音速測試機是有史以來建造可操控型飛機最快的。架設在一枚 彌樂陀 4 號火箭 (Minotaur IV) 上推進到近太空。因為彌樂陀 4 號火箭 (Minotaur IV) 推進力太大我們必須耗掉一些推進力，所以火箭升空後有一部份的飛行軌道必須呈 89 度角。對火箭來說這是個不自然的角度。火箭的第三節配有攝影機。「火箭上攝影機」攝影機對著超高音速滑翔器。這是第一次試飛時火箭上攝影機實際拍到的影片。影片裡的飛行器長寬比例修改過以隱藏真正形狀。但這是自第三節火箭上看到的無人駕駛滑翔器飛進大氣層重返地球的影象。 我們試飛了兩次。第一次飛行滑翔器不受控制，自由滑行。但我們依舊蒐集了很多超高音速飛行資料，遠多於 30 年來在地面測試所得資料的總量。第二次試飛時有三分鐘完全受到我們控制，在 20 馬赫高速下受空氣動力控制的飛行。我們一定還要再次飛行，因為，要達成神奇又前所未有的事你就得再次飛行。要學怎麼在 20 馬赫高速下飛行你就得實際以 20 馬赫飛行。固然速度無可取代，而操控性的重要性僅次於速度。 在 20 馬赫下 要 11 分 20 秒才能從紐約飛到長灘，一隻蜂鳥要飛上嗯... 好幾天才飛的到。當然，蜂鳥不能以超高音速飛行，但他們的操控性很高。事實上，蜂鳥是唯一能倒退飛的鳥。牠能直上 也能直下，能向前 也能倒退，甚至上下翻轉飛行也可以。所以如果我們要在這個廳內或是人類不能涉足的地方飛行，我們就需要夠小又好操控的飛行器才做得到。 這是個蜂鳥飛行器。它可以以任意方向飛行，甚至倒退飛。既可盤旋也可旋轉。這架原型機配有攝影機。總重比一個 3 號 (AA) 電池還輕。這玩意不吃花蜜。在 2008 年它飛了整整 20 秒。1 年後，2 分鐘然後，6 分鐘最後，11 分鐘。許多原型墜毀了— 許多。但我們無法學像蜂鳥一樣飛，除非你實際去飛。(掌聲)真美，不是嗎?哇!真棒。麥特 (Matt) 是史上第一位蜂鳥飛行員。(掌聲) 創造新的、美妙的東西一定會經歷失敗。我們不可能一邊害怕失敗一邊還能做出美妙的新事物 —像這個機器人能像狗一般在崎嶇地面上自由行動，冰地上也不是問題；一個跑得像獵豹的機器人或是像人一樣能爬樓梯的機器人有時也會像人一樣笨拙蹣跚。也許，哪天蜘蛛人會被壁虎人取代。壁虎只靠一隻腳趾就可以支撐全身重量。壁虎腳底，每一平方厘米 (cm^2)有 14,000 個像毛髮的結構叫 「硬纖毛」壁虎靠他們抓住物體表面，靠的是「分子間作用力」。 如今我們已經可以製造這種結構了，模仿壁虎腳上的纖毛。結果是，一塊 4 吋見方 (4x4 inch) 的人造毫米壁虎膠，可以支撐300 公斤 (660磅) 靜態重量。足以把 6 個 42 吋的電漿電視掛在牆上，不用釘子。誰還用魔鬼沾呀，不是嗎? 不只是被動結構而已，還可以製造一整個微型機器。這是蜘蛛塵蟎。身長只有一釐米，但在這些微型機器旁看來就像酷斯拉一樣巨大。在這種巨大的蜘蛛塵蟎世界裡我們可以製造百萬個鏡片，每個鏡片直徑只有人類頭髮直徑的 1/5，這些鏡片每秒可開關數十萬次可以用來製造大電視螢幕，讓我們可以用它們來看高解析度的酷斯拉電影。 假如我們可以製造這麼微型的機器那能不能建構出 微型桁架結構像艾非爾鐵塔一樣?我們現在已經能生產比保力龍還輕的金屬，輕到可以放在蒲公英花上，一點微風就可以吹走它 —輕到你用這些金屬可以造出兩個人就可以搬動的車子，但結構堅硬像休旅車一樣耐撞。 從輕輕一口氣到自然界強烈的暴風。每秒有 44 次閃電發生在整個地球上。每道閃電可以把周邊的空氣燃燒到華氏 44,000 度 (攝氏 24427 度) 高溫 —比太陽表面還熱。假如我們可以運用這些電磁脈衝當作一種導引訊號，在一個一直移動的強力發射器網路中的導引訊號呢?種種實驗顯示出閃電有可能成為下一代的衛星導航系統 (GPS)。 我們腦袋中的不斷流動的電流反映人類的思考。在拇指般大的電網配上 32 個電極連結到他的大腦表面，提姆 (Tim) 用想法控制一個精密的人造手臂。他用思考指揮手臂去觸碰凱蒂。這是第一次有人能只用思考來控制一個機器裝置。這是第一次七年來提姆 (Tim) 第一次牽起凱蒂 (Katie) 的手。這一刻對提姆 (Tim) 和凱蒂 (Katie)非常珍貴，接下來的綠色膏狀物有一天也可能變得很珍貴。這個綠綠的膏將來有可能被製成救命的疫苗。這是在煙草上做出來的。煙草可以用來生產數以百萬計的疫苗，這只要幾個星期而不是幾個月，而這可能是煙草第一次用在有益健康的用途上。 如果你很難接受煙草可以有益人類健康 這件事，那麼來看看遊戲玩家解決專家們解決不了的問題吧。去年九月玩佛地特 (Foldit) 遊戲的玩家們解開了一個反轉錄病毒蛋白的3D 立體結構，這個病毒是造成彌猴染上愛滋病的原因。要開發治療法必須對了這個病毒的結構有完整的了解。15 年來科學家們一直都解不出這些病毒的結構。佛地特 (Foldit) 的玩家們只花 15 天就解開了。他們的成功來自他們通力合作。他們能合作，因為他們在網際網路上連在一起。其他連結在網際網路上的人讓網際網路成為民主的工具。他們的合作改變了他們國家的命運。 網際網路連結了 20 億人口，是全世界人口的 30%。網路讓我們可以以個人身份發聲並讓別人聽到我們的聲音。網路讓我們可以結合為群體，放大我們的聲音以及我們的力量。但網路一開始也沒這麼聲勢浩大。1969 年時，網際網路還只是個夢，在一張紙上的簡單草圖。該年的 10 月 29 日第一次以封包交換方式傳送訊息，從 UCLA 傳送到 SRI。傳了 ""Login"" (登入) 這個字，只有頭兩個字母傳送成功 —L 和 O —然後系統就因緩衝區溢位而當機了。(笑聲)兩個字母，L 和 O，現在卻成了全世界的一鼓力量。 到底那些在 DARPA 這個神奇的地方工作的科學家和工程師是什麼人?他們都是書獃子，但他們也是我們當中的英雄。他們研究最尖端的科學，在最艱苦的情況下挑戰大家的想法。他們提醒我們我們可以改變世界，只要我們不對不可能低頭並且拒絕害怕失敗。他們提醒我們我們都有這種書獃子的能力。有的時候我們只是忘掉了。 曾經，你也不怕失敗，你是個偉大的藝術家、偉大的舞者，你會唱歌、你擅長數學，你會蓋東西、你是個太空人，你是冒險家、你是賈克‧庫斯媮 (Jacques Cousteau, 名探險家)，你比任何人跳得都高、跑得更快、踢得更有力。你相信沒有不可能的事情而且你什麼都不怕。你完完全全與你的內在英雄接軌。科學家和工程師的確能改變世界。你也可以。你天生就是來改變世界的。所以儘管去問自己，假如你知道自己不會失敗你要做什麼? 我現在想說，這不容易。很難保持這種感覺，真的很難。我想某個方面來說，我有些相信這本來就應該要很難。懷疑和畏懼總是會找上門來。我們總想著有人，比我更聰明的人、能力更強的人、有更多資源的人會去解決這些問題。但沒別人呀，就只有你自己。如果我們運氣好，就在那時會有人走進你的懷疑和恐懼，牽起你的手說：「讓我幫你恢復信心、重新相信自己」 傑森‧哈雷 (Jason Harley) 為我做到了。傑森 (Jason) 在 2010 年 3 月 18 日開始在 DARPA 服務。他隸屬我們的運輸團隊。我每天都見到傑森 (Jason)，有時一天碰到兩次。他比其他人敏感，總會留心局裡那些高潮、低潮，那些歡慶、失望挫折。有一天，我特別不好過，諸事不順，傑森坐下來寫了封電子郵件給我。他語句中帶著鼓勵卻也十分堅定。當他送出這封信時，可能還不太清楚這封信影響多大。這封信對我非常重要。收信當下如此、今日亦然，每當我有了疑慮、當我感到畏懼、當我需要再找回挑戰一切、無懼失敗感覺時，我記得他的話，它們是如此強而有力。 「時間不多，趕緊燙平你的披風 ...再飛回天上。」 ♫ 超級英雄，超級英雄 ♫♫ 超級英雄，超級英雄 ♫♫ 超級英雄，超級英雄 ♫♫ 超級英雄，超級英雄 ♫♫ 超級英雄，超級英雄 ♫ 配音：「做個超級英雄就是這麼回事」 Regina Dugan：「時間不多，趕緊熨平你的披風再飛回天上。」要記得，對書獃子們好些。(掌聲)謝謝，謝謝。 (掌聲) Chris Anderson：蕾金娜 (Regina)，謝謝你。我想問幾個問題。那個超高速滑翔器，可以飛 20 馬赫那個第一個，自由滑行那個，應該是掉在太平洋了吧? RD：對，對，是的。CA：那第二個呢?RD：第二個也掉入太平洋了。CA：但這次是受控制飛進太平洋的?我們不是故意讓他飛進太平洋。整個飛行航線有好幾部分非常困難以那個飛行速度來說。所以在第二次試飛時我們在墜毀前只有三分鐘能完全控制，利用空氣動力方式飛行。 CA：我猜你沒計畫短期內開放從紐約直飛長灘的載客航線吧? RD：乘客可能會覺得太暖了些。 CA：你認為這滑翔器將用於什麼用途? RD：我們的責任是開發出能超高速飛行的科技。最後要怎麼用是由軍方決定。但設計這個飛行器，這科技的目的是在能於 60 分鐘內飛到地球的任何一個角落。 CA：而且載重荷量不輕吧?RD：是。CA：實際載重荷量多少呢? RD：我不知道最後載重狀況如何。我們得先能飛才是。 CA：但不僅僅是個攝影機吧? RD：不，當然不必然只是個攝影機。 CA：真是太棒了。對了，那個蜂鳥? RD：怎麼樣? CA：我很好奇。這麼個拼命拍翅膀的飛行器有這麼驚人的失敗記錄，自發展飛機初期僅見的拍翅膀飛機後就不曾製造幾個這種類型的飛機。為什麼會認為這時會是發展模仿動物抄襲蜂鳥飛行的飛行器?這不是有些貴過頭了，只為要生產一個小小的可操控的飛行器? RD：我分享這件事，部分也因為我們很好奇這是不是可能的。而且過去的失敗，在經過一段時間後其實也很值得再一次探討。空環 (AeroVironment) 公司設計了不只 300 種不同的翅膀、12 種不同的飛行操控裝置。他們一直做到第 10 個原型機才做出個真的可以飛的東西。其實在飛這些看來很熟悉的東西時是很有趣的。我們不是經常說要製造怎麼都偵測不到的隱形飛機嗎?只要看起來像自然事物，你就視而不見了。 CA：原來不只是操控及性能部分也是為了外表。RD：對。反應變成：「看啊，有個好可愛的蜂鳥飛進我們總部。」(笑聲)因為儘管這看來讓人佩服，我想我相信在場有人會想科技進步這麼快，要多久才會看到些科技怪咖用個小小的遙控控制個這樣的飛行器從個窗口飛進白宮?我是說，你不擔心有「潘朵拉盒子」的問題嗎? RD：嗯，我們的單一任務是在製造及防範在戰略上的意外。這是我們的任務。我們都知道這樣的工作性質會讓人們既驚喜又擔心，喜憂參半。我們的工作本質就是這樣。我們的責任是盡力發展最尖端科技。當然，我們也該明白也該對我們發展的科技的過程及最終使用方式負責任，但我們無法閉起眼睛，假裝我們沒看到科技的進步 - 科技每天都在進步。 CA：我得說，你的的確確是個激勵人的領袖。你能說服人去從事這些偉大的發明，但就個人層次來說我不大能想像自己做你的工作。你會不會有時半夜從夢中醒來，自己問自己自己團隊的超人才幹會帶來哪些未曾料想到的後果? RD：當然會。不想到這些問題那就難稱得上是人了。 CA：你的答案是? RD：我其實常常也沒有答案。我想隨著時間進行我們會學到些什麼。我的工作非常讓人振奮。我和一些最棒的人共事。這股振奮的感覺也帶來一分深深的責任感。所以你一面感受到化不可能為可能的振奮，一面也承受其嚴肅性。 CA：蕾金娜 (Regina)，你讓我嘴都合不攏了。謝謝你到 TED 來與大家分享。RD：謝謝你。 (掌聲)"
