Talk	en	zh-tw
regina_hartley_why_the_best_hire_might_not_have_the_perfect_resume	"Your company launches a search for an open position. The applications start rolling in, and the qualified candidates are identified. Now the choosing begins. Person A: Ivy League, 4.0, flawless resume, great recommendations. All the right stuff. Person B: state school, fair amount of job hopping, and odd jobs like cashier and singing waitress. But remember — both are qualified. So I ask you: who are you going to pick? My colleagues and I created very official terms to describe two distinct categories of candidates. We call A ""the Silver Spoon,"" the one who clearly had advantages and was destined for success. And we call B ""the Scrapper,"" the one who had to fight against tremendous odds to get to the same point. You just heard a human resources director refer to people as Silver Spoons and Scrappers — (Laughter) which is not exactly politically correct and sounds a bit judgmental. But before my human resources certification gets revoked — (Laughter) let me explain. A resume tells a story. And over the years, I've learned something about people whose experiences read like a patchwork quilt, that makes me stop and fully consider them before tossing their resumes away. A series of odd jobs may indicate inconsistency, lack of focus, unpredictability. Or it may signal a committed struggle against obstacles. At the very least, the Scrapper deserves an interview. To be clear, I don't hold anything against the Silver Spoon; getting into and graduating from an elite university takes a lot of hard work and sacrifice. But if your whole life has been engineered toward success, how will you handle the tough times? One person I hired felt that because he attended an elite university, there were certain assignments that were beneath him, like temporarily doing manual labor to better understand an operation. Eventually, he quit. But on the flip side, what happens when your whole life is destined for failure and you actually succeed? I want to urge you to interview the Scrapper. I know a lot about this because I am a Scrapper. Before I was born, my father was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, and he couldn't hold a job in spite of his brilliance. Our lives were one part ""Cuckoo's Nest,"" one part ""Awakenings"" and one part ""A Beautiful Mind."" (Laughter) I'm the fourth of five children raised by a single mother in a rough neighborhood in Brooklyn, New York. We never owned a home, a car, a washing machine, and for most of my childhood, we didn't even have a telephone. So I was highly motivated to understand the relationship between business success and Scrappers, because my life could easily have turned out very differently. As I met successful business people and read profiles of high-powered leaders, I noticed some commonality. Many of them had experienced early hardships, anywhere from poverty, abandonment, death of a parent while young, to learning disabilities, alcoholism and violence. The conventional thinking has been that trauma leads to distress, and there's been a lot of focus on the resulting dysfunction. But during studies of dysfunction, data revealed an unexpected insight: that even the worst circumstances can result in growth and transformation. A remarkable and counterintuitive phenomenon has been discovered, which scientists call Post Traumatic Growth. In one study designed to measure the effects of adversity on children at risk, among a subset of 698 children who experienced the most severe and extreme conditions, fully one-third grew up to lead healthy, successful and productive lives. In spite of everything and against tremendous odds, they succeeded. One-third. Take this resume. This guy's parents give him up for adoption. He never finishes college. He job-hops quite a bit, goes on a sojourn to India for a year, and to top it off, he has dyslexia. Would you hire this guy? His name is Steve Jobs. In a study of the world's most highly successful entrepreneurs, it turns out a disproportionate number have dyslexia. In the US, 35 percent of the entrepreneurs studied had dyslexia. What's remarkable — among those entrepreneurs who experience post traumatic growth, they now view their learning disability as a desirable difficulty which provided them an advantage because they became better listeners and paid greater attention to detail. They don't think they are who they are in spite of adversity, they know they are who they are because of adversity. They embrace their trauma and hardships as key elements of who they've become, and know that without those experiences, they might not have developed the muscle and grit required to become successful. One of my colleagues had his life completely upended as a result of the Chinese Cultural Revolution in 1966. At age 13, his parents were relocated to the countryside, the schools were closed and he was left alone in Beijing to fend for himself until 16, when he got a job in a clothing factory. But instead of accepting his fate, he made a resolution that he would continue his formal education. Eleven years later, when the political landscape changed, he heard about a highly selective university admissions test. He had three months to learn the entire curriculum of middle and high school. So, every day he came home from the factory, took a nap, studied until 4am, went back to work and repeated this cycle every day for three months. He did it, he succeeded. His commitment to his education was unwavering, and he never lost hope. Today, he holds a master's degree, and his daughters each have degrees from Cornell and Harvard. Scrappers are propelled by the belief that the only person you have full control over is yourself. When things don't turn out well, Scrappers ask, ""What can I do differently to create a better result?"" Scrappers have a sense of purpose that prevents them from giving up on themselves, kind of like if you've survived poverty, a crazy father and several muggings, you figure, ""Business challenges? — (Laughter) Really? Piece of cake. I got this."" (Laughter) And that reminds me — humor. Scrappers know that humor gets you through the tough times, and laughter helps you change your perspective. And finally, there are relationships. People who overcome adversity don't do it alone. Somewhere along the way, they find people who bring out the best in them and who are invested in their success. Having someone you can count on no matter what is essential to overcoming adversity. I was lucky. In my first job after college, I didn't have a car, so I carpooled across two bridges with a woman who was the president's assistant. She watched me work and encouraged me to focus on my future and not dwell on my past. Along the way I've met many people who've provided me brutally honest feedback, advice and mentorship. These people don't mind that I once worked as a singing waitress to help pay for college. (Laughter) I'll leave you with one final, valuable insight. Companies that are committed to diversity and inclusive practices tend to support Scrappers and outperform their peers. According to DiversityInc, a study of their top 50 companies for diversity outperformed the S&P 500 by 25 percent. So back to my original question. Who are you going to bet on: Silver Spoon or Scrapper? I say choose the underestimated contender, whose secret weapons are passion and purpose. Hire the Scrapper. (Applause)"	你的公司為一個開缺的職位發佈徵才，申請書開始不斷湧入，而且合格的人選們已經敲定了，現在挑選要開始了。甲生－常春藤聯盟、GPA成績 4.0、無從挑剔的履歷表、很棒的推薦信，全都是好樣的玩意兒；乙生－州立大學、相當多次的轉職，以及出人意表的工作像是收銀員跟伴唱女服務生，但是記好了－兩者皆符合資格的，所以我問你們：你們打算挑哪位呢？ 我與同事們創造了很官派的用詞來描述兩類涇渭分明的人選，我們把甲生叫「天之驕子」，這類人帶有明顯的優勢而且註定了功成名就；我們叫乙生「不向命運低頭者」，這個人需要抗抵重重險阻才能達到相同的位階；你剛才聽到了一位人資主管把人說成銀湯匙跟拳賽手套－ （笑聲） 這種說法並非全然不帶偏見的，而且聽起來有點武斷；但是在我的人資專業認證被吊銷前－ （笑聲） 我來說明一下吧。 一份履歷表訴說著一則故事，而長年下來我已經學到了一些事情－關於經歷看起來五花八門的人，使得我在把他們的履歷扔至一旁前停下來好生考量他們。一長串出人意表的工作或許表示了容易變卦、欠缺目標、意料之外；或是也許代表著堅定的拼命抗衡障礙，最起碼不向命運低頭者值得有一次面試機會。 說清楚了－我對天之驕子不具任何成見，進入以及從頂尖大學畢業要下很多苦工以及割捨，不過要是你的整個人生已經被精心鋪排好朝向功成名就，你將會如何應付苦日子呢？我聘請過的一個人覺得因為他進入了頂尖大學有些工作是屈就了他的，好比暫時性地幹點賣力活兒來更加瞭解一個作業，到頭來他離職了。但是反過來說－當你的整個人生註定要灰頭土臉而你其實是得償所願的又如何呢？ 我要建請你們去面試不向命運低頭者，我對這事瞭解很多－因為我就是個不向命運低頭的人；在我出生之前我的父親被診斷出有偏執型妄想症，即便他才華橫溢，也不能守住一份工作，我們的日子是部份「飛越杜鵑窩」、部份「無語問蒼天」，以及部份「美麗境界」。 （笑聲） 我是被單親媽媽在紐約市布魯克林區一個破落、不平靜之社區扶養大的五個孩子裡的老四，我們從未有過家宅、車子、洗衣機，而且我大部份的童年裡我們甚至沒有一支電話。所以我深深受到激勵去搞懂商務成功與不向命運低頭者的關聯，因為我的日子能夠輕易地天差地別，當我遇見成功的商務人士以及看高度權威型領導人的檔案時，我留意到一些共同特質。 他們很多人都嚐受過早先的苦日子，來自貧困、棄養、年幼失親、到學習障礙、酗酒和暴力的任何角落。傳統的想法是精神創傷導致了苦悶，一直有著許多注意力焦點放在造成這些的家庭不健全；但是在研究家庭不健全的時候，數據資料顯現一個意料之外的真諦：即便最不堪的環境也能夠引發成長與轉變。一個值得注意以及違背常理的現象已經被找出來了，科學家們稱其為「創傷後成長」。 一個設計來衡量困境對處境堪慮的孩子們有何影響的研究裡，在 698 個孩童遭受最惡劣和最極端之條件下的樣本子集裡，足足有 1/3 多之人長大過著健康、成功、有產出的生活；即便一切不如人意以及重重險阻，他們最終得償所願－有 1/3 的人喔！ 就拿這份履歷表來說吧，這傢伙被父母遺棄受人領養，他從來沒讀完大學，他換工作換得有點兇，到印度去逗留了一年，雪上加霜的是他還有著閱讀障礙，你會聘請這個傢伙嗎？他的名字是史帝夫．賈伯斯！ 一個對世界上最成功之企業家的研究裡最終發現高出正常比例的人數都有閱讀障礙－在美國 35％的企業家被研究發現到有閱讀障礙。有什麼值得注意的呢？在身歷創傷後成長的那些企業家之中，他們現在把他們的學習障礙當成甘願受的一個難題－這給他們帶來一個利基，因為他們成為了更好的聆聽者以及對細節付出更多注意力。他們不認為不受困境所累他們還會是今天的自己，正因為困境他們認清了自己；他們接納了精神創傷和苦日子，作為他們轉變成誰的重要元素，而且知道沒了這些經驗他們或許無法培養出所需的實力與魄力以獲得成功。 在 1966 年的中國「文化大革命」結果我一位同事的人生徹底天翻地覆，在 13 歲大時他的雙親被發配到邊疆、學校被關閉了，而他獨自一人被留在北京自生自滅直到 16 歲大，到他在成衣廠得到了一份差事時。非旦沒有接受他的命運，他下定決心會繼續修習學校課業。11 年後當政治風氣改變了，他聽到有個極難入選的大學招生考試，他有三個月來修習全部國中與高中的課程；所以每一天他從工廠回到家、打個小盹、讀書到凌晨四點、接著回去上班，長達三個月來每天重複這個作息。這麼做他成功了，他對求學的力行是堅定不移的，而且從來不曾喪志，如今他持有碩士的學位，而且他的女兒們各自持有康乃爾與哈佛的學位。 不向命運低頭者受該信念所驅策－「唯一你可以完全控制的人就是自己」當事情不太妙時，不向命運低頭者們問自己：「我可以做哪些不同的事情去創造更好的結果呢？」不向命運低頭者們們有明智的目標，避免他們自我放棄；有點像要是你已經從窮困、失心瘋的老爸以及數起攔路打劫下生存了下來，你這麼認為：「商業挑戰？ （笑聲） 不會吧？小事一樁我來搞定吧！」 （笑聲） 這提醒了我－幽默，不向命運低頭者們知道幽默能讓你度過艱困的時候，而取笑聲幫助你改變想法。 最後有著多種緣分存在，克服困境的人不是孤零零自己一個人做到的；這此一路上的某處他們會找到讓他們發揮出最優水平的人，以及在其成功中扶持出力的人，不論何事有個你可以信賴的人，在要克服困境時是非常重要的。我很幸運－大學後在第一份工作時我自己沒有車子，所以我與一位總統女助理在途經兩座橋的途中共乘；她目睹我工作、鼓勵我放眼未來、不要經常沉浸過去的不好過。這一路上我遇到了許多人提供過我不留情面誠摯的回饋意見、建議和開導，這些人不在意我曾當過伴唱女服務生來幫忙支付上大學的費用。 （笑聲） 我要留給你一個最後、重要的真諦，公司致力於多元性以及沒有大小眼之做為者，傾向力挺不向命運低頭們，而且公司表現較其他同業更亮眼。根據「多元企業」的一份研究－他們多元性前五十名公司獲利表現優於 S&P 500 的公司達 25％。 所以回到我起初的問題吧，你將會壓寶在誰身上－「銀湯匙」還是「拳賽手套」呢？我跟你們說：選擇被低估的角逐者，他們的秘密武器是熱情與目標， 聘用不向命運低頭者吧！ （掌聲）
