Talk	en	zh-tw
renny_gleeson_404_the_story_of_a_page_not_found	"So what I want to try to do is tell a quick story about a 404 page and a lesson that was learned as a result of it. But to start it probably helps to have an understanding of what a 404 page actually is. The 404 page is that. It's that broken experience on the Web. It's effectively the default page when you ask a website for something and it can't find it. And it serves you the 404 page. It's inherently a feeling of being broken when you go through it. And I just want you to think a little bit about, remember for yourself, it's annoying when you hit this thing. Because it's the feeling of a broken relationship. And that's where it's actually also interesting to think about, where does 404 come from? It's from a family of errors actually — a whole set of relationship errors, which, when I started digging into them, it looks almost like a checklist for a sex therapist or a couples counselor. You sort of get down there to the bottom and things get really dicey. (Laughter) Yes. But these things are everywhere. They're on sites big, they're on sites small. This is a global experience. What a 404 page tells you is that you fell through the cracks. And that's not a good experience when you're used to experiences like this. You can get on your Kinect and you can have unicorns dancing and rainbows spraying out of your mobile phone. A 404 page is not what you're looking for. You get that, and it's like a slap in the face. Trying to think about how a 404 felt, and it would be like if you went to Starbucks and there's the guy behind the counter and you're over there and there's no skim milk. And you say, ""Hey, could you bring the skim milk?"" And they walk out from behind the counter and they've got no pants on. And you're like, ""Oh, I didn't want to see that."" That's the 404 feeling. (Laughter) I mean, I've heard about that. So where this comes into play and why this is important is I head up a technology incubator, and we had eight startups sitting around there. And those startups are focused on what they are, not what they're not, until one day Athletepath, which is a website that focuses on services for extreme athletes, found this video. (Video) Guy: Joey! Crowd: Whoa! Renny Gleeson: You just ... no, he's not okay. They took that video and they embedded it in their 404 page and it was like a light bulb went off for everybody in the place. Because finally there was a page that actually felt like what it felt like to hit a 404. (Laughter) (Applause) So this turned into a contest. Dailypath that offers inspiration put inspiration on their 404 page. Stayhound, which helps you find pet sitters through your social network, commiserated with your pet. Each one of them found this. It turned into a 24-hour contest. At 4:04 the next day, we gave out $404 in cash. And what they learned was that those little things, done right, actually matter, and that well-designed moments can build brands. So you take a look out in the real world, and the fun thing is you can actually hack these yourself. You can type in an URL and put in a 404 and these will pop. This is one that commiserates with you. This is one that blames you. This is one that I loved. This is an error page, but what if this error page was also an opportunity? So it was a moment in time where all of these startups had to sit and think and got really excited about what they could be. Because back to the whole relationship issue, what they figured out through this exercise was that a simple mistake can tell me what you're not, or it can remind me of why I should love you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想告訴大家一個簡短的故事是關於所謂的 404 頁面, 還有從這裡頭學到的一些事情但開始之前, 我們最好先了解一下404 頁面, 到底是甚麼東西 所謂的 404 頁面, 其實就是我們在上網時遇到的壞掉的體驗基本上就是當你所要求的網頁,網站沒辦法找到時, 會預設跑出來的顯示在你瀏覽器裡的, 就是 404 頁面當你遇到了, 你會有種搞砸了的感覺我請大家自己回想一下遇到這個東西時真的很煩悶因為這感覺就像是一個搞砸了的關係 但這也是一個很有趣的問題去想一下到底 404 頁面是怎麼來的?其實它是來自於一組的錯誤代碼一整套用來反應關連性的錯誤碼而當我開始深入研究這些錯誤代碼它們看起來幾乎就像是 性治療師 或 婚姻輔導員 的檢查清單。你好像已經落入谷底, 所有事情都變得非常的驚險 (笑聲) 是的 然而, 像這樣的東西到處都看得到大小網站都會見到它這是一個很普遍的體驗 而 404 頁面所告訴你的是你掉在裂縫裡了這並不是一個好的使用者體驗特別是當你對這樣的體驗變得習以為常了你可以有你的 Kinect (體感遊戲主機)你可以有獨角獸在跳舞或彩虹從你的手機中噴出來但是 一個404錯誤頁面, 絕對不是你想要的你看到它, 就像被搧了一個耳光一樣試想一下一個 404 頁面給人的感覺就好像是你去到了星巴克然後櫃檯後面有個傢伙而你當時正找不到脫脂牛奶。你對那個傢伙說: 嘿, 可不可以拿脫脂奶給我?結果有人從櫃檯後面走出來, 沒有穿褲子,你大概會覺得: "" 啊咧! 我不想見到這些! ""這就是一個 404 的感覺 (笑聲) 說真的, 有人告訴過我這樣的事情 這就是我為什麼覺得這件事重要, 值得花力氣在這上頭所以我去找了一個 科技創業育成者我們找來了八家新創公司的人一起碰面這些新創公司一直都著重於他們想做的事情, 而不是他們沒做到的事情直到有一天, Athletepath 這個網站是一個以服務 極限運動 參與者為主的網站找到了這個影片 (影片) 某人: 祖兒! 人群: 嘩! 主講者: 你只是.... 不, 他一點都不好他們把這個影片放到了網站的 404 頁面裡頭這讓每個看到的人, 就像是腦袋裡亮起了一個燈泡一樣因為終於有這麼一個頁面給你一種 感同身受 的 404 頁面的感覺 (笑聲) (掌聲) 然後這發展成了一個比賽Dailypath 提供了這樣的靈感把這個靈感放到了他們的 404 頁面上Stayhound, 是一個是幫你從你的社交網絡中找到寵物保姆的網站對你的寵物有同理心他們其中一個找到這樣的頁面這件事變成了一個 24 小時的比賽第二天的凌晨 4:04, 我們會送出 404 元現金他們所學到的就算是這些小事, 如果做對了, 其實也很有效果的這樣的精心設計的時刻, 是可以打造品牌的所以你去看一下, 在現實世界中有趣的是，你其實也可以自己做出這些。您可以輸入一個URL，造成一個 404 錯誤, 便會彈出這些頁面這是一個會同情你的這是一個會責備你的這是一個我喜歡的這是一個錯誤頁面但如果這個錯誤頁也可以是個機會呢? 所以這是一個時刻這些新創公司的人會開始坐下來想想然後為他們可以做的事感到興奮因為當再回到這些關係的議題他們會從這樣的活動中發現一個簡單的錯誤, 可以告訴我, 你不是什麼或者, 它也可以提醒我, 為甚麼我愛你。 謝謝 (掌聲)"
