Talk	en	zh-tw
reshma_saujani_teach_girls_bravery_not_perfection	"So a few years ago, I did something really brave, or some would say really stupid. I ran for Congress. For years, I had existed safely behind the scenes in politics as a fundraiser, as an organizer, but in my heart, I always wanted to run. The sitting congresswoman had been in my district since 1992. She had never lost a race, and no one had really even run against her in a Democratic primary. But in my mind, this was my way to make a difference, to disrupt the status quo. The polls, however, told a very different story. My pollsters told me that I was crazy to run, that there was no way that I could win. But I ran anyway, and in 2012, I became an upstart in a New York City congressional race. I swore I was going to win. I had the endorsement from the New York Daily News, the Wall Street Journal snapped pictures of me on election day, and CNBC called it one of the hottest races in the country. I raised money from everyone I knew, including Indian aunties that were just so happy an Indian girl was running. But on election day, the polls were right, and I only got 19 percent of the vote, and the same papers that said I was a rising political star now said I wasted 1.3 million dollars on 6,321 votes. Don't do the math. It was humiliating. Now, before you get the wrong idea, this is not a talk about the importance of failure. Nor is it about leaning in. I tell you the story of how I ran for Congress because I was 33 years old and it was the first time in my entire life that I had done something that was truly brave, where I didn't worry about being perfect. And I'm not alone: so many women I talk to tell me that they gravitate towards careers and professions that they know they're going to be great in, that they know they're going to be perfect in, and it's no wonder why. Most girls are taught to avoid risk and failure. We're taught to smile pretty, play it safe, get all A's. Boys, on the other hand, are taught to play rough, swing high, crawl to the top of the monkey bars and then just jump off headfirst. And by the time they're adults, whether they're negotiating a raise or even asking someone out on a date, they're habituated to take risk after risk. They're rewarded for it. It's often said in Silicon Valley, no one even takes you seriously unless you've had two failed start-ups. In other words, we're raising our girls to be perfect, and we're raising our boys to be brave. Some people worry about our federal deficit, but I, I worry about our bravery deficit. Our economy, our society, we're just losing out because we're not raising our girls to be brave. The bravery deficit is why women are underrepresented in STEM, in C-suites, in boardrooms, in Congress, and pretty much everywhere you look. In the 1980s, psychologist Carol Dweck looked at how bright fifth graders handled an assignment that was too difficult for them. She found that bright girls were quick to give up. The higher the IQ, the more likely they were to give up. Bright boys, on the other hand, found the difficult material to be a challenge. They found it energizing. They were more likely to redouble their efforts. What's going on? Well, at the fifth grade level, girls routinely outperform boys in every subject, including math and science, so it's not a question of ability. The difference is in how boys and girls approach a challenge. And it doesn't just end in fifth grade. An HP report found that men will apply for a job if they meet only 60 percent of the qualifications, but women, women will apply only if they meet 100 percent of the qualifications. 100 percent. This study is usually invoked as evidence that, well, women need a little more confidence. But I think it's evidence that women have been socialized to aspire to perfection, and they're overly cautious. (Applause) And even when we're ambitious, even when we're leaning in, that socialization of perfection has caused us to take less risks in our careers. And so those 600,000 jobs that are open right now in computing and tech, women are being left behind, and it means our economy is being left behind on all the innovation and problems women would solve if they were socialized to be brave instead of socialized to be perfect. (Applause) So in 2012, I started a company to teach girls to code, and what I found is that by teaching them to code I had socialized them to be brave. Coding, it's an endless process of trial and error, of trying to get the right command in the right place, with sometimes just a semicolon making the difference between success and failure. Code breaks and then it falls apart, and it often takes many, many tries until that magical moment when what you're trying to build comes to life. It requires perseverance. It requires imperfection. We immediately see in our program our girls' fear of not getting it right, of not being perfect. Every Girls Who Code teacher tells me the same story. During the first week, when the girls are learning how to code, a student will call her over and she'll say, ""I don't know what code to write."" The teacher will look at her screen, and she'll see a blank text editor. If she didn't know any better, she'd think that her student spent the past 20 minutes just staring at the screen. But if she presses undo a few times, she'll see that her student wrote code and then deleted it. She tried, she came close, but she didn't get it exactly right. Instead of showing the progress that she made, she'd rather show nothing at all. Perfection or bust. It turns out that our girls are really good at coding, but it's not enough just to teach them to code. My friend Lev Brie, who is a professor at the University of Columbia and teaches intro to Java tells me about his office hours with computer science students. When the guys are struggling with an assignment, they'll come in and they'll say, ""Professor, there's something wrong with my code."" The girls will come in and say, ""Professor, there's something wrong with me."" We have to begin to undo the socialization of perfection, but we've got to combine it with building a sisterhood that lets girls know that they are not alone. Because trying harder is not going to fix a broken system. I can't tell you how many women tell me, ""I'm afraid to raise my hand, I'm afraid to ask a question, because I don't want to be the only one who doesn't understand, the only one who is struggling. When we teach girls to be brave and we have a supportive network cheering them on, they will build incredible things, and I see this every day. Take, for instance, two of our high school students who built a game called Tampon Run — yes, Tampon Run — to fight against the menstruation taboo and sexism in gaming. Or the Syrian refugee who dared show her love for her new country by building an app to help Americans get to the polls. Or a 16-year-old girl who built an algorithm to help detect whether a cancer is benign or malignant in the off chance that she can save her daddy's life because he has cancer. These are just three examples of thousands, thousands of girls who have been socialized to be imperfect, who have learned to keep trying, who have learned perseverance. And whether they become coders or the next Hillary Clinton or Beyoncé, they will not defer their dreams. And those dreams have never been more important for our country. For the American economy, for any economy to grow, to truly innovate, we cannot leave behind half our population. We have to socialize our girls to be comfortable with imperfection, and we've got to do it now. We cannot wait for them to learn how to be brave like I did when I was 33 years old. We have to teach them to be brave in schools and early in their careers, when it has the most potential to impact their lives and the lives of others, and we have to show them that they will be loved and accepted not for being perfect but for being courageous. And so I need each of you to tell every young woman you know — your sister, your niece, your employee, your colleague — to be comfortable with imperfection, because when we teach girls to be imperfect, and we help them leverage it, we will build a movement of young women who are brave and who will build a better world for themselves and for each and every one of us. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Chris Anderson: Reshma, thank you. It's such a powerful vision you have. You have a vision. Tell me how it's going. How many girls are involved now in your program? Reshma Saujani: Yeah. So in 2012, we taught 20 girls. This year we'll teach 40,000 in all 50 states. (Applause) And that number is really powerful, because last year we only graduated 7,500 women in computer science. Like, the problem is so bad that we can make that type of change quickly. CA: And you're working with some of the companies in this room even, who are welcoming graduates from your program? RS: Yeah, we have about 80 partners, from Twitter to Facebook to Adobe to IBM to Microsoft to Pixar to Disney, I mean, every single company out there. And if you're not signed up, I'm going to find you, because we need every single tech company to embed a Girls Who Code classroom in their office. CA: And you have some stories back from some of those companies that when you mix in more gender balance in the engineering teams, good things happen. RS: Great things happen. I mean, I think that it's crazy to me to think about the fact that right now 85 percent of all consumer purchases are made by women. Women use social media at a rate of 600 percent more than men. We own the Internet, and we should be building the companies of tomorrow. And I think when companies have diverse teams, and they have incredible women that are part of their engineering teams, they build awesome things, and we see it every day. CA: Reshma, you saw the reaction there. You're doing incredibly important work. This whole community is cheering you on. More power to you. Thank you. RS: Thank you. (Applause)"	幾年前我做了件非常勇敢事或者有些人會說是蠢事我去參選了議員 多年來我一直安穩地躲在政治活動的幕後當募款人、活動發起人但我心裡總是想出來參選的我那個選區的現任女議員從1992年就任後從沒敗選過 一直連任至今在民主黨的初選中也根本沒人能望其項背但我想這正是我要的讓改變發生去打破現狀可是民調結果卻完全是另外一回事我的民調分析師說我是瘋了才會參選我根本毫無勝算 但我還是参選了2012年我成為紐約市議員選戰中的新星當時我真心覺得自己會贏紐約日報看好我華爾街日報選舉日當天放的是我的照片連CNBC都說這是全國最激烈的一場選戰我窮盡人脈募集資金包括我的印度阿姨們她們多開心看見一個印度女孩出來參選但到了選舉日當天，民調是對的我只得到19%的票數而先前稱我為政壇明日之星的報紙現在卻說我白白花費130萬美元去換6321票請不要去精算一票到底多貴真是丟臉丟到家了 好了，避免誤會，我要先說今天的演講沒並有要談失敗的重要性也跟全力以赴無關我之所以描述參選議員的過程是因為當時我已經33歲而這卻是我此生第一次做了件稱得上勇敢的事情同時不用擔心怎樣才能做得完美 我可不是唯一如此的人我訪談過的許多女性都告訴我 她們選擇那些工作和專業領域是因為早就知道自己可以做得很好她們知道自己可以做得盡善盡美這一點也不奇怪大多數的女生被教導要避免冒險與失敗要笑得端莊不冒險、求安穩、各科拿甲分男生卻截然不同他們被教導要玩得粗魯點、盪得高一些爬上單槓頂端然後頭下腳上地跳下來等到長大成人之後不管在要求升遷或是開口邀約時他們習慣一次又一次地去冒險他們是被鼓勵這麼做的在矽谷有一句話是這樣的不會有人把你當一回事除非你已經歷過兩次創業失敗換句話說我們教女孩要追求完美但是教男孩要勇敢無畏 有些人為我們的政府赤字擔憂但我則擔心我們的勇氣匱乏我們的經濟、社會都正在走下坡因為我們不把女孩養育成勇敢的人 勇氣匱乏正是為什麼在理工科教育計畫中在高階主管群、董事會、國會裡幾乎所有舉目所及的地方女性代表的人數不足的原因 在1980年代，心理學家凱蘿．德威克觀察了學業優異的五年級生是如何應對太難的作業她發現聰明的女孩很快就放棄了她們的智商愈高，就愈容易放棄而聰明的男孩則相反他們把困難點當做一個挑戰精神都來了因此可能會加倍努力 問題出在哪其實在五年級的階段女生每一科的表現通常都勝過男生包括數學和科學所以這不是能力問題差別在於男女生如何處理所面臨的挑戰而且這不僅止於五年級的孩子惠普公司的一份報告顯示男性找工作時只要符合六成的門檻他們就去應徵了但是女性只會去應徵她們完全符合了門檻的工作百分之百的符合這項研究通常被拿來佐證女性需要多一點點的自信但我認為它證明了女性是被社會教化成要追求完美而且謹慎過頭了 （掌聲） 甚至當我們有野心當我們想傾注心力的時候那個社會化的完美性格 會造成我們在職業生涯上選擇風險較少的路走所以有60萬個正在虛位以待的電腦和科技產業的工作可是女性卻被遺忘了而這意味著我們也忽略了所有經濟上女性的創新以及她們可能可以解決的問題前提是假如社會能教她們勇敢而不是追求完美的話 （掌聲） 因此2012年我創立了一間公司來教女孩寫程式我發現到，透過教程式編寫其實我是在培養她們變得勇敢程式編寫是一個「不斷檢測與發現錯誤」的無止境過程要設法在對的地方，輸入正確的指令有時候只是差一個分號就足以決定成敗程式碼錯了，就全盤皆錯時常要嘗試很多很多次奇蹟才會出現你試著建構的東西總算活了起來這項工作需要毅力需要不完美 我們馬上就發現參與學程的女孩都害怕犯錯害怕不完美「寫程式的女孩」計畫的每個老師都告訴我一樣的故事第一週，女孩們還在學怎麼編寫程式碼時學生會請她過去跟她說「我不知道要寫什麼程式碼」老師看了看她的螢幕只會看到一片空白假如她不夠瞭解，她會覺得她的學生花了20分鐘，只是盯著螢幕發呆但如果她多按幾下復原鍵她會看見學生其實寫下程式碼又刪除了她試過，她逼近了可是還沒做到完全正確她不呈現編寫的進展卻寧願給人看一片空白寧缺勿濫 後來事實證明女孩們非常擅長程式編寫但只教她們寫程式還不夠 我的朋友雷浮．布里教授在哥倫比亞大學教 Java語言的入門課他曾跟我分享他和主修電腦科學的學生會談經驗當男生在作業上遇到困難時他們會走進辦公室說「教授，我的程式出了一點問題」女生走進來之後則會說「教授，我有一些問題」 我們要開始修正這種社會化的完美主義而且必須跟建立姐妹情誼一起做這樣才能讓女孩們知道她們並不孤單因為更多的努力並無法修補一個損壞的系統我沒有辦法告訴你有多少女性跟我說過 「我害怕舉手我害怕問問題因為我不想當那唯一一個聽不懂的人唯一困惑不已的人」我們在教女孩如何勇敢的時候還有一個支持網絡來鼓舞她們於是她們就能創造出很棒的東西這是我每天親眼目睹的例如我們有兩個高中生建置了一款遊戲叫「衛生棉條大進擊」是的，就是「衛生棉條大進擊」 她們想透過遊戲的方式來反抗談論月經的禁忌以及性別歧視或是有一名敘利亞難民她勇於表現對新國家的熱愛而開發出一款幫助美國人瞭解選舉的應用程式另外還有一個16歲的女孩開發出一套演算法能協助檢測出病患的癌症是良性或惡性的希望藉此可以拯救她爸爸的生命因為他罹患了癌症這僅僅是數千個例子中的三個有上千名女孩已經被培養得能夠接受缺陷她們學會不斷的嘗試學會了不屈不撓無論她們未來是否成為寫程式的人還是下一個希拉蕊或碧昂絲她們都不會再延宕自己的夢想了 而那些夢想對我們的國家無比重要如果美國的經濟或任何一個國家的經濟要成長要真正的創新就不能忽略我們一半的人口我們得要教女孩們接納缺點而且現在就要開始行動我們不能等著她們像我一樣33歲才來學著勇敢我們必須在學校裡就教她們勇敢當她們還是職場新人的時候這是最能夠影響她們的一生以及相關人等的生命的時候我們要讓她們知道她們終將被愛、被接受並非因為她們完美無缺而是因為她們勇往直前所以我需要你們去告訴每一個你認識的年輕女性你的姐妹、外甥女、員工、同事...要接納缺點因為當我們教會她們接受不完美並且幫助她們去運用它我們將能創造出一股勇敢年輕女性的力量而她們又會為自己也為我們每個人創建一個更好的世界 謝謝大家 （掌聲）謝謝大家 克里斯．安德森(CA)：謝謝妳，瑞絲瑪妳的願景多麼美好遠大啊妳真有遠見跟我談談現在的狀況吧有多少女性正在參與妳的學程呢？ 瑞絲瑪．索佳妮：好的，2012年我們收了20個女孩今年我們則會教導遍佈50洲總共4萬名的學生 （掌聲） 這個數量非常驚人因為去年我們在電腦科學方面只有7500位女性畢業你看這狀況有多糟所以我們才能讓改變發生得這麼快 CA：而且妳正在跟一些在場的公司合作他們很歡迎妳學程的畢業生是嗎? RS：是的，我們大概有80間合作的公司從推特到臉書到Adobe、IBM、微軟皮克斯，還有迪士尼基本上就是你喊得出名字的公司都有假如你還沒和我們合作我會去找你的因為我們要每一間科技公司在他們的辦公室裡都設置一間「寫程式的女孩」教室 CA：妳好像有些故事跟某幾間公司有關當妳平衡了工程研發團隊的性別差異之後就有好事發生了? RS：美好的事情發生了我是說，我想到這件事就覺得很瘋狂現在消費者買的東西居然有85%是女人做的女人使用社群媒體的頻率是男人的6倍我們佔據了網際網路所以我們應該要建構一個未來企業我認為當公司有多元化的團隊而其中又有傑出的女性參與工程研發小組他們會創造出令人讚嘆的東西這我們每天都親眼見證 CA: 瑞絲瑪，妳看到台下的反應了妳正在做一件非同小可的事情全場的觀眾都在鼓勵妳願妳力上加力，謝謝妳 RS：謝謝 （掌聲）
