Talk	en	zh-tw
richard_weller_could_the_sun_be_good_for_your_heart	"So, before I became a dermatologist, I started in general medicine, as most dermatologists do in Britain. At the end of that time, I went off to Australia, about 20 years ago. What you learn when you go to Australia is the Australians are very competitive. And they are not magnanimous in victory. And that happened a lot: ""You pommies, you can't play cricket, rugby."" I could accept that. But moving into work — and we have each week what's called a journal club, when you'd sit down with the other doctors and you'd study a scientific paper in relation to medicine. And after week one, it was about cardiovascular mortality, a dry subject — how many people die of heart disease, what the rates are. And they were competitive about this: ""You pommies, your rates of heart disease are shocking."" And of course, they were right. Australians have about a third less heart disease than we do — less deaths from heart attacks, heart failure, less strokes — they're generally a healthier bunch. And of course they said this was because of their fine moral standing, their exercise, because they're Australians and we're weedy pommies, and so on. But it's not just Australia that has better health than Britain. Within Britain, there is a gradient of health — and this is what's called standardized mortality, basically your chances of dying. This is looking at data from the paper about 20 years ago, but it's true today. Comparing your rates of dying 50 degrees north — that's the South, that's London and places — by latitude, and 55 degrees — the bad news is that's here, Glasgow. I'm from Edinburgh. Worse news, that's even Edinburgh. (Laughter) So what accounts for this horrible space here between us up here in southern Scotland and the South? Now, we know about smoking, deep-fried Mars bars, chips — the Glasgow diet. All of these things. But this graph is after taking into account all of these known risk factors. This is after accounting for smoking, social class, diet, all those other known risk factors. We are left with this missing space of increased deaths the further north you go. Now, sunlight, of course, comes into this. And vitamin D has had a great deal of press, and a lot of people get concerned about it. And we need vitamin D. It's now a requirement that children have a certain amount. My grandmother grew up in Glasgow, back in the 1920s and '30s when rickets was a real problem and cod liver oil was brought in. And that really prevented the rickets that used to be common in this city. And I as a child was fed cod liver oil by my grandmother. I distinctly — nobody forgets cod liver oil. But an association: The higher people's blood levels of vitamin D are, the less heart disease they have, the less cancer. There seems to be a lot of data suggesting that vitamin D is very good for you. And it is, to prevent rickets and so on. But if you give people vitamin D supplements, you don't change that high rate of heart disease. And the evidence for it preventing cancers is not yet great. So what I'm going to suggest is that vitamin D is not the only story in town. It's not the only reason preventing heart disease. High vitamin D levels, I think, are a marker for sunlight exposure, and sunlight exposure, in methods I'm going to show, is good for heart disease. Anyway, I came back from Australia, and despite the obvious risks to my health, I moved to Aberdeen. (Laughter) Now, in Aberdeen, I started my dermatology training. But I also became interested in research, and in particular I became interested in this substance, nitric oxide. Now these three guys up here, Furchgott, Ignarro and Murad, won the Nobel Prize for medicine back in 1998. And they were the first people to describe this new chemical transmitter, nitric oxide. What nitric oxide does is it dilates blood vessels, so it lowers your blood pressure. It also dilates the coronary arteries, so it stops angina. And what was remarkable about it was in the past when we think of chemical messengers within the body, we thought of complicated things like estrogen and insulin, or nerve transmission. Very complex processes with very complex chemicals that fit into very complex receptors. And here's this incredibly simple molecule, a nitrogen and an oxygen that are stuck together, and yet these are hugely important for [unclear] our low blood pressure, for neurotransmission, for many, many things, but particularly cardiovascular health. And I started doing research, and we found, very excitingly, that the skin produces nitric oxide. So it's not just in the cardiovascular system it arises. It arises in the skin. Well, having found that and published that, I thought, well, what's it doing? How do you have low blood pressure in your skin? It's not the heart. What do you do? So I went off to the States, as many people do if they're going to do research, and I spent a few years in Pittsburgh. This is Pittsburgh. And I was interested in these really complex systems. We thought that maybe nitric oxide affected cell death, and how cells survive, and their resistance to other things. And I first off started work in cell culture, growing cells, and then I was using knockout mouse models — mice that couldn't make the gene. We worked out a mechanism, which — NO was helping cells survive. And I then moved back to Edinburgh. And in Edinburgh, the experimental animal we use is the medical student. It's a species close to human, with several advantages over mice: They're free, you don't shave them, they feed themselves, and nobody pickets your office saying, ""Save the lab medical student."" So they're really an ideal model. But what we found was that we couldn't reproduce in man the data we had shown in mice. It seemed we couldn't turn off the production of nitric oxide in the skin of humans. We put on creams that blocked the enzyme that made it, we injected things. We couldn't turn off the nitric oxide. And the reason for this, it turned out, after two or three years' work, was that in the skin we have huge stores not of nitric oxide, because nitric oxide is a gas, and it's released — (Poof!) — and in a few seconds it's away, but it can be turned into these forms of nitric oxide — nitrate, NO3; nitrite, NO2; nitrosothiols. And these are more stable, and your skin has got really large stores of NO. And we then thought to ourselves, with those big stores, I wonder if sunlight might activate those stores and release them from the skin, where the stores are about 10 times as big as what's in the circulation. Could the sun activate those stores into the circulation, and there in the circulation do its good things for your cardiovascular system? Well, I'm an experimental dermatologist, so what we did was we thought we'd have to expose our experimental animals to sunlight. And so what we did was we took a bunch of volunteers and we exposed them to ultraviolet light. So these are kind of sunlamps. Now, what we were careful to do was, vitamin D is made by ultraviolet B rays and we wanted to separate our story from the vitamin D story. So we used ultraviolet A, which doesn't make vitamin D. When we put people under a lamp for the equivalent of about 30 minutes of sunshine in summer in Edinburgh, what we produced was, we produced a rise in circulating nitric oxide. So we put patients with these subjects under the UV, and their NO levels do go up, and their blood pressure goes down. Not by much, as an individual level, but enough at a population level to shift the rates of heart disease in a whole population. And when we shone UV at them, or when we warmed them up to the same level as the lamps, but didn't actually let the rays hit the skin, this didn't happen. So this seems to be a feature of ultraviolet rays hitting the skin. Now, we're still collecting data. A few good things here: This appeared to be more marked in older people. I'm not sure exactly how much. One of the subjects here was my mother-in-law, and clearly I do not know her age. But certainly in people older than my wife, this appears to be a more marked effect. And the other thing I should mention was there was no change in vitamin D. This is separate from vitamin D. So vitamin D is good for you — it stops rickets, it prevents calcium metabolism, important stuff. But this is a separate mechanism from vitamin D. Now, one of the problems with looking at blood pressure is your body does everything it can to keep your blood pressure at the same place. If your leg is chopped off and you lose blood, your body will clamp down, increase the heart rate, do everything it can to keep your blood pressure up. That is an absolutely fundamental physiological principle. So what we've next done is we've moved on to looking at blood vessel dilatation. So we've measured — this is again, notice no tail and hairless, this is a medical student. In the arm, you can measure blood flow in the arm by how much it swells up as some blood flows into it. And what we've shown is that doing a sham irradiation — this is the thick line here — this is shining UV on the arm so it warms up but keeping it covered so the rays don't hit the skin. There is no change in blood flow, in dilatation of the blood vessels. But the active irradiation, during the UV and for an hour after it, there is dilation of the blood vessels. This is the mechanism by which you lower blood pressure, by which you dilate the coronary arteries also, to let the blood be supplied with the heart. So here, further data that ultraviolet — that's sunlight — has benefits on the blood flow and the cardiovascular system. So we thought we'd just kind of model — Different amounts of UV hit different parts of the Earth at different times of year, so you can actually work out those stores of nitric oxide — the nitrates, nitrites, nitrosothiols in the skin — cleave to release NO. Different wavelengths of light have different activities of doing that. So you can look at the wavelengths of light that do that. And you can look — So, if you live on the equator, the sun comes straight overhead, it comes through a very thin bit of atmosphere. In winter or summer, it's the same amount of light. If you live up here, in summer the sun is coming fairly directly down, but in winter it's coming through a huge amount of atmosphere, and much of the ultraviolet is weeded out, and the range of wavelengths that hit the Earth are different from summer to winter. So what you can do is you can multiply those data by the NO that's released and you can calculate how much nitric oxide would be released from the skin into the circulation. Now, if you're on the equator here — that's these two lines here, the red line and the purple line — the amount of nitric oxide that's released is the area under the curve, it's the area in this space here. So if you're on the equator, December or June, you've got masses of NO being released from the skin. So Ventura is in southern California. In summer, you might as well be at the equator. It's great. Lots of NO is released. Ventura mid-winter, well, there's still a decent amount. Edinburgh in summer, the area beneath the curve is pretty good, but Edinburgh in winter, the amount of NO that can be released is next to nothing, tiny amounts. So what do we think? We're still working at this story, we're still developing it, we're still expanding it. We think it's very important. We think it probably accounts for a lot of the north-south health divide within Britain, It's of relevance to us. We think that the skin — well, we know that the skin has got very large stores of nitric oxide as these various other forms. We suspect a lot of these come from diet, green leafy vegetables, beetroot, lettuce has a lot of these nitric oxides that we think go to the skin. We think they're then stored in the skin, and we think the sunlight releases this where it has generally beneficial effects. And this is ongoing work, but dermatologists — I mean, I'm a dermatologist. My day job is saying to people, ""You've got skin cancer, it's caused by sunlight, don't go in the sun."" I actually think a far more important message is that there are benefits as well as risks to sunlight. Yes, sunlight is the major alterable risk factor for skin cancer, but deaths from heart disease are a hundred times higher than deaths from skin cancer. And I think that we need to be more aware of, and we need to find the risk-benefit ratio. How much sunlight is safe, and how can we finesse this best for our general health? So, thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	在我開始做皮膚科醫生之前，我是從內科做起的，跟英國大部分皮膚科醫生一樣，都是內科出身。當在內科做得差不多的時候，我越洋到了澳洲，那時大概是 20 年前左右。你去到澳洲就會發現澳洲人愛好競爭。對勝利絕對是當仁不讓的。而這種情況經常發生：「你們這班英國佬，玩木球、欖球（rugby）都不行。」這點我倒能接受的。 但說到工作──我們每週都有所謂的期刊例會，就是當你和其他醫生相約坐下，一起研究有關醫學的科學論文。而過了第一週，主題就去到有關心血管疾病的死亡率，是個沉悶的主題──有多少人死於心臟疾病，死亡率是多少。而他們對此也是愛競爭：「你們這班英國佬，心臟疾病的死亡率嚇死人了。」 而當然，他們沒錯的。澳洲人得心臟疾病的人比我們少三分一左右──少些心臟病發、心衰竭的死亡個案，少些中風個案──整體而言，他們是較健康的一群。而當然他們會說這歸因於他們的道德修養、及運動的習慣，因為他們是澳洲人，我們是死英國佬，之類吧。 不過，不單只是澳洲整體比英國健康。在英國之內，健康狀況也有差異──而這就是所謂標準化死亡率，基本上就是你有多少成機會會死。這是大約 20 年前期刊上找到的資料但今日依然適用。對比各地的死亡機率，這是北緯 50 度也就是南方南方，倫敦一帶而北緯 55 度……壞消息是，那就是這裏，格拉斯哥。我來自愛丁堡。更壞的消息是，愛丁堡更在那方。 （眾笑） 要解釋中間這段駭人的差距：對比在上方南蘇格蘭的我們以及南方土地，理由是甚麼？現在，我們都知道吸煙、脆炸巧克力棒（Mars bars）、炸薯條──格拉斯哥的飲食方式。這些事情。但圖表經過排除這些已知的高風險因素的影響。這是經過排除吸煙、社會階級、飲食習慣，一切其他已知的高風險因素得出來的。這段不見的差距，就成了一個謎：愈往北走，死亡數字愈高。 這時，日光，當然浮出水面了。維他命 D 經過廣泛報導後，很多人都很關注。如是得出：我們需要維他命 D。因此飲食指引列明：兒童須要攝取指定份量。我祖母在格拉斯哥長大，早在 1920 至 30 年代，佝僂病風行，疾病嚴重，於是就引入魚肝油。而這確實預防了城市中許多佝僂病案例。我小時候也是被祖母餵食魚肝油的。我敢說──沒人會忘記魚肝油的。 但基於一種聯想：人血液中的維他命 D 水平愈高，人們就少些有心臟病，少些癌症。很多資料似乎都說明維他命 D 對身體很好。而確實是：可以預防佝僂病，等等。但如果人們服食維他命 D 補充劑，似乎並不能減少心臟病的高患病率。而且維他命 D 補充劑並未有太大實證支持能預防癌症。我想指出的是，維他命 D 並非這個城市中關於疾病預防的全部。維他命 D 並非預防心臟病的惟一原因。我認為，高維他命 D 水平，倒標誌了較多的陽光曝曬，而透過以下方式，我想說明，陽光曝曬，其實有助預防心臟病。 說回那個故事，我從澳洲回來之後，儘管身體健康暴露高風險，我搬到亞伯丁。（眾笑）現在，在亞伯丁，我開始了我的皮膚專科訓練。但我同時對研究產生興趣，尤其是我有興趣研究這種物質，一氧化氮。圖中這三位，佛契哥德、伊格那羅和慕拉德，共同奪得了 1998 年的諾貝爾醫學獎。他們同時是第一批人，能夠描述這種新的化學傳導物質，一氧化氮。一氧化氮可以擴張血管，從而降低血壓。它同時擴張冠狀動脈，停止心絞痛。 而最特別的一點就是，以前當我們思索身體內有甚麼化學信使時，我們總想到複雜的雌激素和胰島素，或者是神經傳導。很複雜的過程，牽涉很複雜的化學物質，發生在很複雜的化學受體上。而這就是個異常簡單的分子，將一氧一氧結合起來，然而卻扮演重要角色，去引起血管擴張，增加血流量，作神經傳導，很多很多的功用，但尤其是心血管健康。 之後我開始研究，並得出很令人振奮的發現，就是皮膚能夠產生一氧化氮。所以一氧化氮不單只在心血管系統中生成。一氧化氮也在皮膚中生成。之後，在得出這發現並發表後，我想，好了，它究竟扮演甚麼角色？你的皮膚怎樣維持低的血壓？這不是心臟。可以怎麼做？ 所以我走了一趟美國，就像做研究的人都會這樣做，而我在匹茲堡待了幾年。這就是匹茲堡。我對這些很複雜的系統很感興趣。我們想，或許一氧化氮能夠左右細胞的死亡，細胞怎樣維持生存，以及對外來物質的抵抗。我首先從細胞培植入手，就是培養細胞，之後我就用了關鍵的老鼠實驗模型──一些無法製造某基因的老鼠。我們得出一個運作原理，就是── 一氧化氮幫助細胞生存。 之後我搬回愛丁堡。而在愛丁堡，實驗對象就變成了醫科學生。是個很接近人類的物種，對吧，比起老鼠有多個好處：他們是免費的，你不用替他們刮鬍鬚，照顧他們三餐，而沒有人會衝進你的辦公室，說：「保護實驗醫科學生的權益。」所以他們是十分理想的實驗模型。 但我們得出的結果是我們不能在人身上重複老鼠的實驗，並得出相同的結果。我們似乎並不能關掉人類皮膚上產生一氧化氮的過程。我們試過塗上一層膏，阻擋催化製造一氧化氮的酶，我們試過注射化學物質，但就是不能關掉一氧化氮的製造。 而箇中原因，經過兩三年的研究工作之後，發覺原來是皮膚中有大量的貯存，不是一氧化氮，因為一氧化氮本體是氣體，一釋放就會─(呼！) ─數秒間就消失無蹤，但是可以變成這些形式的一氧化氮──硝酸鹽 NO3 -；亞硝酸鹽 NO2 -；亞硝基硫醇。而這些是較穩定的形態，而皮膚中確實有很大的一氧化氮貯存。我們跟着就想，有了這一大堆貯存，究竟日光能否活化這些貯存讓它們從皮膚中釋放，因為貯存量是在血液循環中的約十倍之多。太陽可否將貯存中的一氧化氮釋放到血液中，進而在血液循環中有助於心血管系統健康？ 對了，我是個實驗皮膚學家，所以我們當時接着想的是我們會將實驗對象放於陽光中曝曬。所以我們當時做的是，我們將一班自願者放在紫外光燈的曝曬下。那是其中一種太陽光燈。此時，我們小心翼翼去做的是，維他命 D 是由紫外光 B 光線造成的，而我們想將避開維他命 D 的影響。所以我們用了紫外光燈 A，是不會產生維他命 D 的。 當我們將人們放於燈下，相當於在愛丁堡夏天曝曬日光三十分鐘的時間，我們得出的是，我們得出一個一氧化氮在血液循環中提升的結果。所以我們將一些有此方面問題的病人放在紫外光燈下，而他們的一氧化氮含量確實提升了，而血壓就下降。效果不是太明顯，在個人層面之言，但在一個社群層面，已相當有效果，將整個社群中的心臟病患率往下調。而當我們只是將紫外光往他們照一照，或當我們將他們像是照燈一樣暖起來，但不讓光線實際的照進皮膚上，得不出這種效果。所以這似乎是紫外光線接觸皮膚後的效果。 現在，我們仍在蒐集數據。已得出的好處有幾點：似乎是較年長的人身上，效果較明顯。我不確定較明顯多少。其中一位試驗者是我的岳母，很明顯我不知道她的確實年齡。但肯定的是，在一些比我妻子年長的人身上，似乎有較明顯的效果。而值得一提的是維他命 D 含量並沒有改變。這是與維他命 D 分開的。所以，維他命 D 對身體有好處──它停止佝僂病，預防鈣之代謝，此等重要的事。但這是個與維他命 D 分開的機制。 好了，純粹看血壓控制其中一個弊處是你的身體會竭其所能去維持你的血壓在一個相當的水平。若你的腿不幸被砍掉，大量失血，你的身體會降低效能，增加心跳，竭其所能去維持血壓。那實是很基本的生理調節原則。 所以我們之後所做的是轉往觀察血管擴張。如是我們測量了──再一次地，沒有尾巴，沒有毛髮，這位是醫科學生。在手臂，你可以測量一下手臂的血液流量，由手腫起的程度來判斷血流量。而我們發現的是，在未照光組（就是這條實心線）這是在手臂上照紫外光，讓手臂暖起來，但將手臂覆蓋着，不讓光線直接照射皮膚。血液流量沒有因為血管擴張而改變。但在照光組中，在紫外光下照了一小時，血管出現擴張的現象。這是身體降低血壓的運作方式，一併會擴張冠狀動脈，增加供應心臟的血流量。這裏，就是進一步支持紫外光──也就是日光──對血液流動以及心血管系統有幫助的數據。 我們想我們的結論模型大概是──不同強度的紫外光，每年在不同時節，照射地球上不同的地方。所以你實在猜得到被貯存的一氧化氮──皮膚內的硝酸鹽、亞硝酸鹽、亞硝基硫醇──破出轉而釋放一氧化氮。不同波長的光，對這些活動有不同效果。所以你可以看看可以達到效果的波長。而你可以看看──這樣看，若你在赤道附近，太陽直照頭頂，陽光透過很薄的大氣層射進來。在冬天或夏天，都有相同強度的光源。若你住在北方的這裡，在夏天，陽光能頗直接的到達，但在冬天，陽光就要穿透好一層大氣層，當中好一部分紫外線經已被磨滅，而光線到達地球時，波長的範圍從夏天到冬天都有所不同。所以你可以做到的是，你將那些數據與釋放出來的一氧化氮相乘，而你就可以計算出有多少一氧化氮會從皮膚中釋放到血液循環。 好了，若你在赤道這裏──這裏有兩條線，紅線和紫線──一氧化氮釋出的量，就是曲線下的部份，就是這個區域的面積。所以，若你身處赤道上，不論十二月還是六月，你都有一大份量的一氧化氮，從皮膚中釋放。另外，文圖拉就在南加利福尼亞州。在夏天，情況與身處赤道倒也差不多。很不錯。很多一氧化氮會釋放。在文圖拉仲冬，都算是仍有一定份量的。夏天的愛丁堡，曲線下的面積也不錯的，但冬天的愛丁堡．可以釋放出來的一氧化氮就近乎零，只是微小份量。 那我們認為怎樣？我們仍在這方面努力，我們仍在發展它，我們仍在拓展這想法。我們覺得這件事非常重要。我們認為它也許能解釋在英國之中，許多南北健康差異的理由，它對我們的意義重大。我們認為皮膚……我們確實知道皮膚有很多一氧化氮的貯存，只是以眾多其他形式來貯存。我們猜想很多是來自飲食，綠葉蔬菜、甜菜、生菜中有很多這些一氧化氮，我們認為會跑到皮膚去。我們想，之後它們就貯存在皮膚中，而我們想，在日光下，它得以釋放，同時有助於整體身體健康。 而這仍在研究中，但是皮膚學家……我的意思是，我是個皮膚專科醫生。我白天的工作就是對人們說：「你有皮膚癌，是由太陽光造成的，不要走到陽光下。」我其實想，有個更加重要的訊息就是太陽光有利也有弊。沒錯，陽光是罹患皮膚癌，一個可以控制的高風險因素，但心臟病的死亡個案比起皮膚癌高出一百倍。而我認為我們應該更加認清事實，並需要找尋風險與益處適當的比例。陽光有多大的情況下是安全的，而我們又能怎樣巧用陽光達到我們普遍的健康？ 最後，萬分感謝在座各位。（掌聲）
