Talk	en	zh-tw
rich_benjamin_my_road_trip_through_the_whitest_towns_in_america	"Imagine a place where your neighbors greet your children by name; a place with splendid vistas; a place where you can drive just 20 minutes and put your sailboat on the water. It's a seductive place, isn't it? I don't live there. (Laughter) But I did journey on a 27,000-mile trip for two years, to the fastest-growing and whitest counties in America. What is a Whitopia? I define Whitopia in three ways: First, a Whitopia has posted at least six percent population growth since 2000. Secondly, the majority of that growth comes from white migrants. And third, the Whitopia has an ineffable charm, a pleasant look and feel, a je Ne sais quoi. (Laughter) To learn how and why Whitopias are ticking, I immersed myself for several months apiece in three of them: first, St. George, Utah; second, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; and third, Forsyth County, Georgia. First stop, St. George — a beautiful town of red rock landscapes. In the 1850s, Brigham Young dispatched families to St. George to grow cotton because of the hot, arid climate. And so they called it Utah's Dixie, and the name sticks to this day. I approached my time in each Whitopia like an anthropologist. I made detailed spreadsheets of all the power brokers in the communities, who I needed to meet, where I needed to be, and I threw myself with gusto in these communities. I went to zoning board meetings, I went to Democratic clubs and Republican clubs. I went to poker nights. In St. George, I rented a home at the Entrada, one of the town's premier gated communities. There were no Motel 6's or Howard Johnsons for me. I lived in Whitopia as a resident, and not like a visitor. I rented myself this home by phone. (Laughter) (Applause) Golf is the perfect seductive symbol of Whitopia. When I went on my journey, I had barely ever held a golf club. By the time I left, I was golfing at least three times a week. (Laughter) Golf helps people bond. Some of the best interviews I ever scored during my trip were on the golf courses. One venture capitalist, for example, invited me to golf in his private club that had no minority members. I also went fishing. (Laughter) Because I had never fished, this fellow had to teach me how to cast my line and what bait to use. I also played poker every weekend. It was Texas Hold 'em with a $10 buy-in. My poker mates may have been bluffing about the hands that they drew, but they weren't bluffing about their social beliefs. Some of the most raw, salty conversations I ever had during my journey were at the poker table. I'm a gung ho entertainer. I love to cook, I hosted many dinner parties, and in return, people invited me to their dinner parties, and to their barbecues, and to their pool parties, and to their birthday parties. But it wasn't all fun. Immigration turned out to be a big issue in this Whitopia. The St. George's Citizens Council on Illegal Immigration held regular and active protests against immigration, and so what I gleaned from this Whitopia is what a hot debate this would become. It was a real-time preview, and so it has become. Next stop: Almost Heaven, a cabin I rented for myself in Coeur d'Alene, in the beautiful North Idaho panhandle. I rented this place for myself, also by phone. (Laughter) The book ""A Thousand Places To See Before You Die"" lists Coeur d'Alene — it's a gorgeous paradise for huntsmen, boatmen and fishermen. My growing golf skills came in handy in Coeur d'Alene. I golfed with retired LAPD cops. In 1993, around 11,000 families and cops fled Los Angeles after the L.A. racial unrest, for North Idaho, and they've built an expatriated community. Given the conservatism of these cops, there's no surprise that North Idaho has a strong gun culture. In fact, it is said, North Idaho has more gun dealers than gas stations. So what's a resident to do to fit in? I hit the gun club. When I rented a gun, the gentleman behind the counter was perfectly pleasant and kind, until I showed him my New York City driver's license. That's when he got nervous. I'm not as bad a shot as I thought I might have been. What I learned from North Idaho is the peculiar brand of paranoia that can permeate a community when so many cops and guns are around. In North Idaho, in my red pickup truck, I kept a notepad. And in that notepad I counted more Confederate flags than black people. In North Idaho, I found Confederate flags on key chains, on cellphone paraphernalia, and on cars. About a seven-minute drive from my hidden lake cabin was the compound of Aryan Nations, the white supremacist group. America's Promise Ministries, the religious arm of Aryan Nations, happened to have a three-day retreat during my visit. So I decided to crash it. (Laughter) I'm the only non-Aryan journalist I'm aware of ever to have done so. (Laughter) Among the many memorable episodes of that retreat... (Laughter) ...is when Abe, an Aryan, sidled up next to me. He slapped my knee, and he said, ""Hey Rich, I just want you to know one thing. We are not white supremacists. We are white separatists. We don't think we're better than you, we just want to be away from you."" (Laughter) Indeed, most white people in Whitopia are neither white supremacists or white separatists; in fact, they're not there for explicitly racial reasons at all. Rather, they emigrate there for friendliness, comfort, security, safety — reasons that they implicitly associate to whiteness in itself. Next stop was Georgia. In Georgia, I stayed in an exurb north of Atlanta. In Utah, I found poker; in Idaho, I found guns; in Georgia, I found God. (Laughter) The way that I immersed myself in this Whitopia was to become active at First Redeemer Church, a megachurch that's so huge that it has golf carts to escort the congregants around its many parking lots on campus. I was active in the youth ministry. And for me, personally, I was more comfortable in this Whitopia than say, in a Colorado, or an Idaho, or even a suburban Boston. That is because [there], in Georgia, white people and black people are more historically familiar to one another. I was less exotic in this Whitopia. (Laughter) But what does it all mean? Whitopian dreaming, Whitopia migration, is a push-pull phenomenon, full of alarming pushes and alluring pulls, and Whitopia operates at the level of conscious and unconscious bias. It's possible for people to be in Whitopia not for racist reasons, though it has racist outcomes. Many Whitopians feel pushed by illegals, social welfare abuse, minorities, density, crowded schools. Many Whitopians feel pulled by merit, freedom, the allure of privatism — privatized places, privatized people, privatized things. And I learned in Whitopia how a country can have racism without racists. Many of my smug urban liberal friends couldn't believe I would go on such a venture. The reality is that many white Americans are affable and kind. Interpersonal race relations — how we treat each other as human beings — are vastly better than in my parents' generation. Can you imagine me going to Whitopia 40 years ago? What a journey that would have been. (Laughter) And yet, some things haven't changed. America is as residentially and educationally segregated today as it was in 1970. As Americans, we often find ways to cook for each other, to dance with each other, to host with each other, but why can't that translate into how we treat each other as communities? It's a devastating irony, how we have gone forward as individuals, and backwards as communities. One of the Whitopian outlooks that really hit me was a proverbial saying: ""One black man is a delightful dinner guest; 50 black men is a ghetto."" One of the big contexts animating my Whitopian journey was the year 2042. By 2042, white people will no longer be the American majority. As such, will there be more Whitopias? In looking at this, the danger of Whitopia is that the more segregation we have, the less we can look at and confront conscious and unconscious bias. I ventured on my two-year, 27,000 mile journey to learn where, why, and how white people are fleeing, but I didn't expect to have so much fun on my journey. (Laughter) I didn't expect to learn so much about myself. I don't expect I'll be living in a Whitopia — or a Blacktopia, for that matter. I do plan to continue golfing every chance I get. (Laughter) And I'll just have to leave the guns and megachurches back in Whitopia. Thank you. (Applause)"	想像一下有個地方，你的鄰居叫得出你孩子的名字；景觀超好；你只要開車 20 分鐘就能下水駕船。很誘人的地方，對吧？ 我不住在那裡。（笑聲）但是我的確踏上近四萬四千公里的旅程，在兩年間，到美國幾個快速成長且居民很白的幾個縣走走。 什麼是白色烏托邦？我以三點定義白色烏托邦：第一，白色烏托邦自 2000 年起至少有 6% 的人口成長。第二，人口成長主要是因為白種人移入。第三，白色烏托邦有著難以言喻的魅力，舒適的景觀和感覺，不知其所以然也。（笑聲） 要瞭解白色烏托邦如何又為何會發展起來，我花了幾個月讓自己深入其中三個地方：第一，猶他州聖喬治；第二，愛達荷州科達倫；及第三，喬治亞州福賽斯郡。 第一站，聖喬治，是個有著紅岩景色的美麗小鎮，1850 年代，摩門教的楊百翰差派數個家庭到聖喬治種植棉花，因為那裡的炎熱乾燥氣候很適合。因此他們稱這裡為猶他之南，而且這個名字延用至今。我以人類學者之姿前進每一座白色烏托邦。我在試算表上列出社區裡所有的權力掮客，什麼人一定要見，需要出現在什麼地方，而且我興致勃勃的去參與社區活動。我去都市計畫委員會，我去民主黨及共和黨的黨會，我還去跟人打撲克牌。我在聖喬治的「怡家」社區租了一棟房子，這是城裡數一數二有警衛管理的豪宅區。我可不能住在廉價的汽車旅館或連鎖飯店。我要在白色烏托邦裡當居民，而不是觀光客。 我是打電話租屋的。（譯注：不用顯示自己是黑人）（笑聲）（掌聲） 高爾夫是白色烏托邦的完美誘惑代表。我開始這趟旅程時，連高爾夫球桿都沒拿過。但在我結束時，我每星期至少要打三次。（笑聲） 打高爾夫促進人的情誼。這趟旅程中我最好的訪談都是在高爾夫球場上聊來的。舉個例子，有位創投業者邀我去他私人的高爾夫俱樂部，那裡沒有少數族裔會員。 我還去釣魚。（笑聲）因為我從來沒釣過魚，這傢伙還得教我如何揮竿、如何選餌。 我每個週末還玩撲克。玩德州撲克，參賽金十美元。雖然我的撲克牌友每次都虛張聲勢說自己有一手好牌，但他們對於自己的社會信念可一點都不假。旅程中有好些尖酸辛辣的對話都在撲克牌桌上產生。 我是個很賣力的主人。我很愛烹飪，開了很多晚餐趴，他們也回邀我去他們的晚餐趴，還有他們的烤肉趴、泳池趴、生日趴。 但不是每件事都很好玩。事實證明移民在這座白色烏托邦是個大議題。聖喬治的「整治非法移民市民委員會」定期舉行抗議活動，積極反對外來移民，所以我在這座白色烏托邦搜集到的情報，就是這可能會成為非常激烈的辯論。這是當時的即時預覽，而現在的確也變成如此。 下一站：科達倫的「人間天堂」是我給我自己租的小木屋，位於美麗的愛達荷州，狹長的那一塊。我自己租下這個地方，也是用電話。（笑聲） 《1000 個死前必遊勝地》柯達倫名列其一。那真的是獵人、船友及漁友的美麗天堂。 我愈來愈好的高爾夫技巧在柯達倫派上用場。我與退休的洛杉磯警察一起打高爾夫。1993 年，約有一萬一千個家庭及警察，在洛杉磯種族暴動後，從洛杉磯逃到北愛達荷，在此建造了一個流放社區。鑑於這些警察的保守主義，北愛達荷有很強烈的擁槍文化一點也不意外。事實上，大家都說，北愛達荷的槍枝業者比加油站還多。所以，居民要做什麼才能融入呢？我跑去槍枝俱樂部。我去租槍的時候，櫃檯的先生非常和藹可親，直到我給他紐約市的駕照。那時他就開始緊張了。我以為我是個糟糕的射手，但是其實還好。 我在北愛達荷學到的是，有這麼多警察及槍枝在四周，的確會有某種奇特的妄想深植社區之中。 在北愛達荷時，我在我的小紅載卡多內放著一本記事簿。那本記事簿上我算到的南軍聯盟國旗比黑人還多。在北愛達荷，我發現南軍聯盟國旗不但做成鑰匙圈、手機吊飾，還掛在車上。 離我海登湖畔小屋開車七分鐘就會到的地方，是「亞利安國」的聚會營地，他們是白人至上主義團體。「美國的承諾事工」為亞利安國的宗教部門，剛好在我暫住的時候舉行三天的退修會。所以我決定當個不速之客。（笑聲）我是我所知道唯一做過這種事的非亞利安（白人）記者，（笑聲）那場退修會上演了許多難以忘懷的情節，（笑聲）其中之一是亞伯，也是名亞利安，悄悄的走到我身邊。他拍拍我的膝蓋，他說：「嘿，李其，我想讓你瞭解一件事。我們不是白人至上主義者，我們是白人分離主義者。我們不認為我們比你好。我們只是想離你遠遠的。」（笑聲） 確實，在白色烏托邦的白人並非白人至上主義者，也不是白人分離主義者；事實上，他們根本就不是因為種族原因而聚集在那裡。相反的，他們移居那裡，是因為那裡親切、舒適、有安全感而且也很安全。他們很隱晦的將這些原因與白人本身連結在一起。 下一站是喬治亞。在喬治亞，我住在北亞特蘭大遠郊區。在猶他，我找到撲克；在愛達荷，我找到槍枝；在喬治亞，我找到神。（笑聲）我將自己融入這座白色烏托邦的方法，是積極參與「第一救贖主教會」，這是一座超級巨型教會，大到甚至有高爾夫球車載著會眾穿梭在園區內眾多的停車場間。我很積極參與青年事工。對我個人而言，我在這座白色烏托邦感覺更自在，比在科羅拉多或愛達荷，或波士頓近郊都還自在。這是因為在喬治亞，白人和黑人在歷史上更熟悉彼此。我在這座白色烏托邦裡沒有那麼奇特。（笑聲） 但是這一切意味著什麼？白色烏托邦夢想，白色烏托邦遷徙，是一種「推拉」現象，充滿了可怕的推力及誘人的拉力。白色烏托邦以有意識及無意識的偏見運作著。大家會移居白色烏托邦很可能不是因為種族主義，卻產生種族主義的結果。許多白色烏托邦的人覺得被非法移民、社會福利濫用、少數族裔、稠密人口，及擁擠的學校推出去。許多白色烏托邦的人覺得被好處、被自由拉進去，個人主義的誘惑──私有化的地方、私有化的人民、私有化的東西。我在白色烏托邦也學到，一個國家如何有種族主義，卻沒有種族主義者。 我有許多自以為是的都會自由派朋友，都不敢相信我會踏上這趟冒險之旅。現實的情況是許多白種美國人都很和藹善良。個人之間的種族關係──我們以人類的身分如何對待他人──都比我父母的年代好太多。你能想像如果 40 年前我去白色烏托邦會是什麼樣子嗎？會是多棒的旅程啊！（笑聲）然而，某些事情仍然不變。今天，美國在居住及教育方面的隔離與 1970 年仍然相同。 身為美國人，我們常找方法給彼此做點菜，和彼此跳跳舞，招待彼此。但是為什麼我們不能以族群的身分這樣對待彼此？這是極大的諷刺，我們怎麼會在個人方面進步，卻在族群方面退步？ 白色烏托邦存在一個看法對我產生極大震撼，就是一句俗話說：「一名黑人是令人愉快的晚宴客人，50 名黑人就變成貧民窟。」 驅動我踏上白色烏托邦之旅的一項大環境背景是 2042 年。到了 2042 年，白人不再佔美國的多數。如此一來，會有更多的白色烏托邦出現嗎？從這點來看，白色烏托邦的危險是我們愈隔離，我們就愈不能正視及面對有意識及無意識的偏見。 我大膽花了兩年踏上四萬四千公里的旅程，去學習白人逃到哪裡，為什麼要逃，又怎麼逃，但我沒想到這趟旅程會這麼好玩。（笑聲）我沒想到我會更瞭解自己。我沒想到我會住在白色烏托邦──或應該說，黑色烏托邦。我的確想過一有機會就要繼續打高爾夫。（笑聲）但我得把槍枝及超級巨型教會留在白色烏托邦。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
