Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_swan_let_s_save_the_last_pristine_continent	"Let's go south. All of you are actually going south. This is the direction of south, this way, and if you go 8,000 kilometers out of the back of this room, you will come to as far south as you can go anywhere on Earth, the Pole itself. Now, I am not an explorer. I'm not an environmentalist. I'm actually just a survivor, and these photographs that I'm showing you here are dangerous. They are the ice melt of the South and North Poles. And ladies and gentlemen, we need to listen to what these places are telling us, and if we don't, we will end up with our own survival situation here on planet Earth. I have faced head-on these places, and to walk across a melting ocean of ice is without doubt the most frightening thing that's ever happened to me. Antarctica is such a hopeful place. It is protected by  the Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959. In 1991, a 50-year agreement was entered into that stops any exploitation in Antarctica, and this agreement could be altered, changed, modified, or even abandoned starting in the year 2041. Ladies and gentlemen, people already far up north from here in the Arctic are already taking advantage of this ice melt, taking out resources from areas already that have been covered in ice for the last 10, 20, 30,000, 100,000 years. Can they not join the dots and think, ""Why is the ice actually melting?"" This is such an amazing place, the Antarctic, and I have worked hard for the last 23 years on this mission to make sure that what's happening up here in the North does never happen,  cannot happen in the South. Where did this all begin? It began for me at the age of 11. Check out that haircut.  It's a bit odd. (Laughter) And at the age of 11,  I was inspired by the real explorers to want to try to be the first to walk to both Poles. I found it incredibly inspiring that the idea of becoming a polar traveler went down pretty well with girls  at parties when I was at university. That was a bit more inspiring. And after years, seven years of fundraising, seven years of being told no, seven years of being told by my family to seek counseling and psychiatric help, eventually three of us found ourselves marching to the South Geographic Pole on the longest unassisted march ever made anywhere on Earth in history. In this photograph, we are standing in an area the size of the United States of America, and we're on our own. We have no radio  communications, no backup. Beneath our feet, 90 percent of all the world's ice, 70 percent of all the world's fresh water. We're standing on it. This is the power of Antarctica. On this journey, we faced the danger of crevasses, intense cold, so cold that sweat turns to ice inside your clothing, your teeth can crack, water can freeze in your eyes. Let's just say it's a bit chilly. (Laughter) And after 70 desperate days, we arrive at the South Pole. We had done it. But something happened to me on that 70-day journey in 1986 that brought me here, and it hurt. My eyes changed color in 70 days through damage. Our faces blistered out. The skin ripped off and we wondered why. And when we got home, we were told by NASA that a hole in the ozone had been discovered above the South Pole, and we'd walked underneath it the same year it had been discovered. Ultraviolet rays down, hit the ice, bounced back, fried out the eyes, ripped off our faces. It was a bit of a shock — (Laughter) — and it started me thinking. In 1989, we now head north. Sixty days, every step away from the safety of land across a frozen ocean. It was desperately cold again. Here's me coming in from washing naked at -60 Celsius. And if anybody ever says to you, ""I am cold"" — (Laughter) — if they look like this,  they are cold, definitely. (Applause) And 1,000 kilometers away from the safety of land, disaster strikes. The Arctic Ocean melts beneath our feet four months before it ever had in history, and we're 1,000 kilometers from safety. The ice is crashing around us, grinding, and I'm thinking, ""Are we going to die?"" But something clicked in my head on this day, as I realized we, as a world, are in a survival situation, and that feeling has never gone away for 25 long years. Back then, we had to march or die. And we're not some TV survivor program. When things go wrong for us, it's life or death, and our brave African-American Daryl, who would become the first American to walk to the North Pole, his heel dropped off  from frostbite 200 klicks out. He must keep going, he does, and after 60 days on the ice, we stood at the North Pole. We had done it. Yes, I became the first person in history stupid enough to walk to both Poles, but it was our success. And sadly, on return home, it was not all fun. I became very low. To succeed at something is often harder than actually making it happen. I was empty, lonely, financially destroyed. I was without hope, but hope came in the form of the great Jacques Cousteau, and he inspired me to take on  the 2041 mission. Being Jacques, he gave me clear instructions: Engage the world leaders, talk to industry and business, and above all, Rob, inspire young people, because they will choose the future of the preservation of Antarctica. For the world leaders, we've been to every world Earth Summit, all three of them, with our brave yacht, 2041, twice to Rio, once in '92, once in 2012, and for the Earth Summit in Johannesburg, we made the longest overland voyage ever made with a yacht, 13,000 kilometers around the whole of Southern Africa doing our best to inspire over a million young people in person about 2041 and about their environment. For the last 11 years, we have taken over 1,000 people, people from industry and business, women and men from companies, students from all over the world, down to Antarctica, and during those missions, we've managed to pull out over 1,500 tons of twisted metal left in Antarctica. That took eight years, and I'm so proud of it because we recycled all of it  back here in South America. I have been inspired ever since I could walk to recycle by my mum. Here she is, and my mum — (Applause) — my mum is still recycling, and as she is in her 100th year, isn't that fantastic? (Applause) And when — I love my mum. (Laughter) But when Mum was born, the population of our planet was only 1.8 billion people, and talking in terms of billions, we have taken young people from industry and business from India, from China. These are game-changing nations, and will be hugely important in the decision about the preservation of the Antarctic. Unbelievably, we've engaged and inspired women to come from the Middle East, often for the first time they've  represented their nations in Antarctica. Fantastic people, so inspired. To look after Antarctica, you've got to first engage people with this extraordinary place, form a relationship, form a bond, form some love. It is such a privilege to go to Antarctica, I can't tell you. I feel so lucky, and I've been 35 times in my life, and all those people who come with us return home as great champions, not only for Antarctica, but for local issues back in their own nations. Let's go back to where we began: the ice melt of the North and South Poles. And it's not good news. NASA informed us six months ago that the Western Antarctic Ice Shelf is now disintegrating. Huge areas of ice — look how big Antarctica is even compared to here — Huge areas of ice  are breaking off from Antarctica, the size of small nations. And NASA have calculated that the sea level will rise, it is definite, by one meter in the next 100 years, the same time that my mum has been on planet Earth. It's going to happen, and I've realized that  the preservation of Antarctica and our survival here on Earth are linked. And there is a very simple solution. If we are using more renewable energy in the real world, if we are being more efficient with the energy here, running our energy mix in a cleaner way, there will be no financial reason to go and exploit Antarctica. It won't make financial sense, and if we manage our energy better, we also may be able to slow down, maybe even stop, this great ice melt that threatens us. It's a big challenge, and what is our response to it? We've got to go back one last time, and at the end of next year, we will go back to the South Geographic Pole, where we arrived 30 years ago on foot, and retrace our steps of 1,600 kilometers, but this time only using renewable energy to survive. We will walk across those icecaps, which far down below are melting, hopefully inspiring some solutions on that issue. This is my son, Barney. He is coming with me. He is committed to walking side by side with his father, and what he will do is to translate these messages and inspire these messages to the minds of future young leaders. I'm extremely proud of him. Good on him, Barney. Ladies and gentlemen,  a survivor — and I'm good — a survivor sees a problem and doesn't go, ""Whatever."" A survivor sees a problem and deals with that problem before it becomes a threat. We have 27 years to preserve the Antarctic. We all own it. We all have responsibility. The fact that nobody owns it  maybe means that we can succeed. Antarctica is a moral line in the snow, and on one side of that line we should fight, fight hard for this one beautiful, pristine place left alone on Earth. I know it's possible. We are going to do it. And I'll leave you with these words from Goethe. I've tried to live by them. ""If you can do, or dream you can, begin it now, for boldness has genius, power and magic in it."" Good luck to you all. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	往南走！事實上，你們全都走向南方，這是南方的方向，這邊。若你從這空間的後面再走 8 千公里，你將來到地球的最南邊，南極。 我並不是個探險家，不是個環境論者。我其實是一個倖存者，而在此向你展示的是危險的照片；這些是南極、北極的融冰。女士、先生們，我們需要傾聽這些地區要告訢我們的訊號；若不傾聽，我們將會終結我們自己的生存，在地球上的生存。 我曾親訪這些地方，走過融化的海洋冰層那無疑是最嚇人的地方，我遇過最嚇人的地方。南極洲是如此充滿希望的地方。1959 年所簽署的南極條約保護著它；在 1991 年，另一個 50 年的協議生效，停止任何南極洲的開發，然而這協議可能被改變、修改、調整、甚至廢止，從 2041 年開始。女士們先生們，人類已從這裡到北極獲得利益，融冰帶來的利益，奪取埋藏於冰層下的天然資源，累積了一萬、兩萬、三萬、十萬年的天然資源。難道人們不能加入我們，思考「究竟為何冰層會融化？」 這真是個令人驚艷的地方，就是南極；而我已為此奮鬥了23年，就為了確保北極已發生的事，絕不能夠發生在南極。 這一切從何開姶？這從我11歲開始。看看這髮型，有點怪吧！(笑聲)11歲時，探險家們激勵了我，想要嘗試成為到訪南北極的第一人。我發現這真是難以置信的激勵人心，成為極地探險家的主意，在大學派對的女孩間是很吃得開的，那又更鼓舞我。多年之後，籌款七年之後，被拒絕了七年之後，七年來被家人叫去作心理輔導、精神輔助；終於，三名成員籌足了前往南極的經費，那是地球歷史上最長距離的無後援旅程。在這張照片中，我們站在如美國面積一樣大的冰上，我們靠自己站上去；我們沒有通訊設備，沒有支援。在我們腳下，是全球 90% 的冰，全球 70% 的淡水資源。我們正站在上面，這就是南極的力量！ 在旅途中，我們遇到裂縫的危險，極度的寒冷，冷到汗水在衣服內結冰、牙齒可能斷裂、水能凍結眼睛。我們說這有點冷耶！(笑聲)經過70天的磨難，我們抵達南極，我們做到了！1986年70天旅程在我身上發生的事，帶我來到這裡，那真的是很痛！我的眼睛在70天中因受損改變了顏色，我們的臉痛的要命，皮膚都裂開了，我們都想知道發生了什麼事。返家後，太空總署 (NASA) 告訴我們在臭氧層發現了一個洞，就在南極上空，而就在那年，我們在破洞之下走著。紫外線灑落大地，照射冰層後，反彈回來，灼傷了眠睛、撕裂了我們的臉。那令人有點吃驚，(笑聲)也使我開始思考。 在 1989 年，我們走向北方，在 60 天中，一步步離遠安全區域，跨越結冰的海洋；又是個極冷的地方。這是我，從負 60 度低溫裸身洗澡回來；如果任何人曾經跟你說過「我很冷」，(笑聲)如果他們看起來像這樣，毫無疑問他們真的很冷。(鼓掌) 在安全區域的千里之外，災難降臨了。北極海在我們腳下融化了，就在首次被記載的四個月之前，而我們卻在安全之地千里之外。冰層在我們附近崩塌、碎裂，而我在想「我們的死期到了？」那天，一個念頭突然閃過腦海，我意識到，我們著整個世界正處於存亡關頭，而那感覺在這 25 年來從未消逝。回到當下，我們必須前進，不然就會死亡，我們並是什麼野外生存電視節目。事有差錯之時，便是生死交關。勇敢的非美裔同伴 ﹣ 達利，即將成為第一個跨越北極的美國人，他的腳跟因凍瘡了 200 公里而掉下來；他必須繼續前進，而他做到了，在 60 天的冰上旅程，我們站到北極之上。我們做到了！是的，我成為史上第一個笨到會跨越兩極的人，但這正是我們的成功之處。 難過的是，回家後，一切都不有趣了，我變得非常低落。成功常常要比努力本身更難，我空虛、孤獨、一貧如洗。我失去了希望，但希望透過偉大的雅克•庫斯托回到我身邊，他激勵我挑戰 2041 任務。雅克給我明確的指示：跟世界領袖交手，與產業、企業溝通，最重要的是，鼓舞年輕人，因為他們將選擇未來對於南極的保護。至於世界領袖，我們到訪每個地球高峰會，每次都帶著我們的勇氣號帆船，2041;二次到里約，1992 與 2012；而在約翰尼斯堡的高峰會，我們做了最遠的陸上航行，繞行整個南非一共 13000 公里，竭盡所能面對面鼓舞近一百萬的年經人，關於2041任務以及他們的環境。 近 11 年以來，我們帶領超過一千人，產業界的人們、企業界的男男女女、世界各地的學生，一起來到南極。在任務中，我們清除了，超過 1500 噸廢置在南極廢金屬；雖然花了8年，但我很自豪，因為我們在南美洲把這些全都回收再生。一直都有人鼓勵著我，每當我回到我母親身邊；這就是我母親(掌聲)她仍然堅持回收利用，即使是在她一百歲時，這難道不棒嗎？(掌聲)當…我愛我媽媽！(笑聲)當我母親出生時，地球僅有18億人口，而講到10億，我們帶來了產業界的年輕人，從印度、中國。這些都是改寫遊戲規則的國家，且將會對南極保育有著極度的重要性。難以想像，我們也鼓舞了中東的女孩一起參與，常常是她們國家第一個在南極的代表。奇妙的人們，是如此的受激勵。一起來守護南極，你定要先讓人們親近這個不平凡的地方，建立關係，建立連結，架構起愛！前往南極就像是種特權，我無法言喻。我感覺非常幸運，我此生已到過南極 35 次；而跟我們同行的人，返家後個個像是大英雄，不僅在關於南極的議題上，也包括他們當地的議題。 回到故事的最初：南北極的融冰，這不是個好消息，NASA 在 6 個月前通知我們，南極西部冰棚正在分裂。巨大的冰層 ﹣看看南極洲與此相比有多大 ﹣巨大的冰層正從南極洲裂開，就像個小國一樣的面積。NASA 估算海平面將會上升，無庸置疑，在 100 年內升高 1 米，正是我媽媽在地球上生活的年數。那即將發生，我也意識到守護南極與人類在地球上的生存是息息相關的。有一個很簡單的解決方案，如果我們使用更多再生能源，如果我們更有效率地使用能源，用更乾淨的方式使用能源，人們將沒有財務上的理由前往、開發南極洲。那將會個不划算的主意，如果我們更妥善地管理能源，我們也許能夠減緩、甚至停止，巨大融冰對人們的威脅。 這是個大挑戰，而我們的回應是什麼？我們必須再回去最後一次，[2015 - 16南極能源挑戰]就在明年底，我們將重返地理南極，那正是我們 30 年前步行所至之處，追循我們 1600 公里的足跡；但這次，只以再生能源存活。我們將走過冰帽，那底下深處正在融化，希望激發一些解決方案！ 這是我兒子，巴尼。他將與我同行，他承諾一步一步跟他的父親走下去，他將翻譯這些訊息，激勵未來年輕領導者的心。我衷心為他感到自豪，祝巴尼好運。 女士們先生們，一個倖存者…我過得很好，一個倖存者看見問題但無論如何都不會轉身離去；一個倖存者看見問題，在它變成威脅之前，解決掉它。我們有 27 年的時間來保護南極，我們共同擁有它，我們都有責任。無人擁有南極也許代表我們會成功。南極洲是冰雪中的道德防線，在這道防線上，我們應該奮戰，為了留給地球一片美麗、純樸的地方奮戰到底！我知道這是可能的，我們將要完成它，而我將歌德的這句話留給你們，我已試過用這句話活下去。 如果你可以做到，或夢想你能做到，現在就開始吧。因為勇氣帶來天份、力量與魔法。 祝大家好運！ 謝謝 (掌聲)
