Talk	en	zh-tw
robert_waldinger_what_makes_a_good_life_lessons_from_the_longest_study_on_happiness	"What keeps us healthy and happy as we go through life? If you were going to invest now in your future best self, where would you put your time and your energy? There was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their most important life goals were, and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them was to get rich. And another 50 percent of those same young adults said that another major life goal was to become famous. (Laughter) And we're constantly told to lean in to work, to push harder and achieve more. We're given the impression that these are the things that we need to go after in order to have a good life. Pictures of entire lives, of the choices that people make and how those choices work out for them, those pictures are almost impossible to get. Most of what we know about human life we know from asking people to remember the past, and as we know, hindsight is anything but 20/20. We forget vast amounts of what happens to us in life, and sometimes memory is downright creative. But what if we could watch entire lives as they unfold through time? What if we could study people from the time that they were teenagers all the way into old age to see what really keeps people happy and healthy? We did that. The Harvard Study of Adult Development may be the longest study of adult life that's ever been done. For 75 years, we've tracked the lives of 724 men, year after year, asking about their work, their home lives, their health, and of course asking all along the way without knowing how their life stories were going to turn out. Studies like this are exceedingly rare. Almost all projects of this kind fall apart within a decade because too many people drop out of the study, or funding for the research dries up, or the researchers get distracted, or they die, and nobody moves the ball further down the field. But through a combination of luck and the persistence of several generations of researchers, this study has survived. About 60 of our original 724 men are still alive, still participating in the study, most of them in their 90s. And we are now beginning to study the more than 2,000 children of these men. And I'm the fourth director of the study. Since 1938, we've tracked the lives of two groups of men. The first group started in the study when they were sophomores at Harvard College. They all finished college during World War II, and then most went off to serve in the war. And the second group that we've followed was a group of boys from Boston's poorest neighborhoods, boys who were chosen for the study specifically because they were from some of the most troubled and disadvantaged families in the Boston of the 1930s. Most lived in tenements, many without hot and cold running water. When they entered the study, all of these teenagers were interviewed. They were given medical exams. We went to their homes and we interviewed their parents. And then these teenagers grew up into adults who entered all walks of life. They became factory workers and lawyers and bricklayers and doctors, one President of the United States. Some developed alcoholism. A few developed schizophrenia. Some climbed the social ladder from the bottom all the way to the very top, and some made that journey in the opposite direction. The founders of this study would never in their wildest dreams have imagined that I would be standing here today, 75 years later, telling you that the study still continues. Every two years, our patient and dedicated research staff calls up our men and asks them if we can send them yet one more set of questions about their lives. Many of the inner city Boston men ask us, ""Why do you keep wanting to study me? My life just isn't that interesting."" The Harvard men never ask that question. (Laughter) To get the clearest picture of these lives, we don't just send them questionnaires. We interview them in their living rooms. We get their medical records from their doctors. We draw their blood, we scan their brains, we talk to their children. We videotape them talking with their wives about their deepest concerns. And when, about a decade ago, we finally asked the wives if they would join us as members of the study, many of the women said, ""You know, it's about time."" (Laughter) So what have we learned? What are the lessons that come from the tens of thousands of pages of information that we've generated on these lives? Well, the lessons aren't about wealth or fame or working harder and harder. The clearest message that we get from this 75-year study is this: Good relationships keep us happier and healthier. Period. We've learned three big lessons about relationships. The first is that social connections are really good for us, and that loneliness kills. It turns out that people who are more socially connected to family, to friends, to community, are happier, they're physically healthier, and they live longer than people who are less well connected. And the experience of loneliness turns out to be toxic. People who are more isolated than they want to be from others find that they are less happy, their health declines earlier in midlife, their brain functioning declines sooner and they live shorter lives than people who are not lonely. And the sad fact is that at any given time, more than one in five Americans will report that they're lonely. And we know that you can be lonely in a crowd and you can be lonely in a marriage, so the second big lesson that we learned is that it's not just the number of friends you have, and it's not whether or not you're in a committed relationship, but it's the quality of your close relationships that matters. It turns out that living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health. High-conflict marriages, for example, without much affection, turn out to be very bad for our health, perhaps worse than getting divorced. And living in the midst of good, warm relationships is protective. Once we had followed our men all the way into their 80s, we wanted to look back at them at midlife and to see if we could predict who was going to grow into a happy, healthy octogenarian and who wasn't. And when we gathered together everything we knew about them at age 50, it wasn't their middle age cholesterol levels that predicted how they were going to grow old. It was how satisfied they were in their relationships. The people who were the most satisfied in their relationships at age 50 were the healthiest at age 80. And good, close relationships seem to buffer us from some of the slings and arrows of getting old. Our most happily partnered men and women reported, in their 80s, that on the days when they had more physical pain, their mood stayed just as happy. But the people who were in unhappy relationships, on the days when they reported more physical pain, it was magnified by more emotional pain. And the third big lesson that we learned about relationships and our health is that good relationships don't just protect our bodies, they protect our brains. It turns out that being in a securely attached relationship to another person in your 80s is protective, that the people who are in relationships where they really feel they can count on the other person in times of need, those people's memories stay sharper longer. And the people in relationships where they feel they really can't count on the other one, those are the people who experience earlier memory decline. And those good relationships, they don't have to be smooth all the time. Some of our octogenarian couples could bicker with each other day in and day out, but as long as they felt that they could really count on the other when the going got tough, those arguments didn't take a toll on their memories. So this message, that good, close relationships are good for our health and well-being, this is wisdom that's as old as the hills. Why is this so hard to get and so easy to ignore? Well, we're human. What we'd really like is a quick fix, something we can get that'll make our lives good and keep them that way. Relationships are messy and they're complicated and the hard work of tending to family and friends, it's not sexy or glamorous. It's also lifelong. It never ends. The people in our 75-year study who were the happiest in retirement were the people who had actively worked to replace workmates with new playmates. Just like the millennials in that recent survey, many of our men when they were starting out as young adults really believed that fame and wealth and high achievement were what they needed to go after to have a good life. But over and over, over these 75 years, our study has shown that the people who fared the best were the people who leaned in to relationships, with family, with friends, with community. So what about you? Let's say you're 25, or you're 40, or you're 60. What might leaning in to relationships even look like? Well, the possibilities are practically endless. It might be something as simple as replacing screen time with people time or livening up a stale relationship by doing something new together, long walks or date nights, or reaching out to that family member who you haven't spoken to in years, because those all-too-common family feuds take a terrible toll on the people who hold the grudges. I'd like to close with a quote from Mark Twain. More than a century ago, he was looking back on his life, and he wrote this: ""There isn't time, so brief is life, for bickerings, apologies, heartburnings, callings to account. There is only time for loving, and but an instant, so to speak, for that."" The good life is built with good relationships. Thank you. (Applause)"	當我們渡過此生是什麼讓我們保有健康跟幸福呢？為了將來過得最好的自己，假使你們現在正要下本錢的話，你會把時間和精力投注在哪兒呢？有個對千禧世代的近期研究問他們人生最重要的目標是什麼？超過八成說主要的目標是變得富有；以及同一批未成氣候的成年人另有五成說另一個主要的目標是變得名聲響亮。 （笑聲） 而且我們不斷地聽人講要傾心工作、更賣力些以及取得更多的成就；我們被灌輸概念－為了有美好的生活，這些東西是我們需要追求的。周齊的人生圖景－大家做出的選擇以及這些選擇為他們帶來什麼結果－幾乎無從得知；我們對人生所知道的絕大部份來自於訴請別人記起過往。如同我們所知－事後很容易有後見知明，但是要預測未來是很難的；我們記不住一生當中大多數發生在我們身上的事情，而且有時候記憶是極其不切實際的。 不過要是我們能夠看見齊全的人生－當它們穿越時間展開來呢？要是我們能夠研究大家－從他們少年一路直到老朽－來看是什麼確實讓人保持幸福和健康呢？ 我們做過了！哈佛大學的成年人生涯進展研究或許是前所未見最長久的成年人生涯研究，75 年來我們已經追查了742 位男士的生活，年復一年問及其工作、居家生活、健康，當然了這一路問下來對他們人生的故事即將如何翻轉我們也毫不知情。 像這樣的研究計畫微乎其微，幾乎所有這種研究在十年內就破局了；因為太多人放棄了研究，或者金援研究的資金沒了著落，或是研究負責人琵琶別抱，或是研究負責人死亡而且無人讓該計畫再做出進展。不過透過好運加上幾個世代研究人員的堅毅，這個研究並未中斷。我們原先的 724 位男士大約有 60 人仍然還活著、一直參與著這個研究，他們大多都 90 多歲了，而且我們現在正要開始研究這些男士 2,000 多名的子女們；而我是本研究的第四位主持人了。 從 1938 年來我們已經追蹤了兩組男士的生活，第一組當他們在哈佛大學二年級時就開始在這個研究裡；二次世界大戰期間他們全部念完大學，之後大多數都離家效力於戰場上。第二組我們密切關注的－是一群來自波士頓最窮澀里坊的男孩子們，被這研究選到的男孩子們特別是因為他們來自三零年代波士頓一些最困頓和弱勢的家庭－大多數住在低品質的公寓大樓，很多人家還都沒有自來水和熱水。 當他們進入這個研究時這些十來歲的孩子全都有接受採訪、做健康檢查、我們去到他們家採訪其雙親。然後這些青少年長大成人進入社會各階層，他們成了工廠工人、律師、泥水匠、醫師，以及一位美國總統。有的人染上酒癮、偶有人罹患精神分裂症、有一些從社會底層攀越社會梯階一路飛黃騰達、有些人則背道而馳了。 這個研究的發起人們絕對意想不到－即便最狂縱的夢想中－75 年後的今天我會站在這裡，正在告訴你們這個研究仍然未中斷。每兩年我們有耐性跟認真賣力的研究人手致電給我們的研究對象，問說我們是否能再寄送給他們一份有關他們生活的問卷。 許多波士頓化外之地的受訪者問我們：「為什麼你一直想研究我？我的人生一點就是不精采呀！」；哈佛大學的受訪者們從未問過該問題。 （笑聲） 為了取得這些人生最清楚的寫照，我們不只是寄送給他們問券；我們在他們家的客廳做訪談、從他們的醫生那裡取得病歷、跟他們抽血和做腦部掃描、跟他們的子女聊、拍攝下他們跟老婆談論最憂心的事情。然後大約在 10 年前到頭來我們問了他們的老婆：「妳們是否會參與我們作為研究受訪者成員呢？」；許多婦女說：「也該是時候了啦！」 （笑聲） 所以我們學到什麼了呢？從數萬頁的資料－我們已經從這些人生中收集到－裡面有何前車之鑑呢？此前車之鑑與財富、名氣、賣命工作無關，我們從這個 75 年的研究裡得到最明確的訊息是這個：「良好的關係在其期間內讓我們保持更幸福、健康！」。 我們已經學到關於關係的三大前車之鑑：第一個是人際聯繫確實對我們是好的，而孤獨是要命的。最終發現與家庭、朋友、社群較有人際聯繫的人是較為幸福、身體比較健康的，而且比起聯繫沒那麼好的人活得較長久。孤獨的經歷結果發現到是非常折磨人的，比起自己所設想與外人更無牽扯的人察覺到他們比較不幸福，他們在中年時健康較早下滑、腦功能下滑更快，比起不孤獨的人他們比較短命。令人遺憾的事實是在任何時間點多過 1/5 的美國人會白紙黑字說他們是孤單的！ 我們知道你們有可能在人群裡、一段婚姻中是孤單的，所以第二個我們學到的前車之鑑則是：不只是你擁有的朋友人數、無關你到底是否正投入在一段感情之中，你的品質才重要。結果發現到生活在相爭不讓下對我們的健康實在是不好，例如沒有太多的情愛、時常爭吵的婚姻結果發現對我們的健康是非常不好的，或許比起離婚還要更糟糕。而生活在良好、溫暖的關係之中是受到保護的。 自從我們密切關注完我們的受訪男士們一路直到他們 80 多歲，我們想要回過頭來看中年時的他們，來看我們是否能夠預知誰將會邁入幸福、健康的八旬之年，以及誰就不是這樣了。當我們備齊在他們五十歲時我們已知的每一項東西，並非是他們中年的膽固醇水準預知他們即將如何變老；是他們對於自己的關係有多滿意－在 50 歲最滿意人際關係的人，在 80 歲時是最健康的。良好、親密的關係看似舒緩了我們不住變老的大小打擊變故，我們最樂於有人相伴的男士與婦女們指出－在他們 80 幾歲較多病痛的日子裡他們的心情維持就是一樣幸福；不過處於不幸福之關係的人，在該期間他們說有較多的病痛－病痛因情緒的苦楚增烈了。 還有我們學到有關關係與健康的第三個前車之鑑就是：「良好的關係不光保護我們的肉體，它們還保護了我們的頭腦」。最終結果是在你八十幾歲時與另一個人處於安穩依靠的關係是有保護的，處於確實覺得需要的時候可以仰賴另一方之關係的人，那些人的記憶力維持較明晰、更久遠；處於感到無法仰賴另一方之關係的人，那些人蒙受比較早的記憶力衰退。而那些良好的關係不必隨時隨地都很融洽；有些我們的八旬夫妻們可能日復一日與彼此在小事上爭執，但是就跟他們覺得可以真的在日益險峻的情勢中仰賴另一方的時候般長久，這些爭端無損於他們的記憶力！ 所以這則訊息：「良好、親密的關係對我們的健康與福分是有益的」，這是由來已久的智慧，為什麼該訊息如此難得卻又這麼容易輕忽掉呢？這麼說吧－我們是人類！我們真正喜歡的東西是便宜之計，某種我們可以到手會使得我們的生活變好以及保持下去的東西；人際關係棘手又複雜，以及要留心家人與朋友這等不輕鬆的事情，這檔事並不迷人或扣人心弦，它還是一生長久的事情、永遠沒完沒了。在我們長達 75 年的研究裡退休後最快活的受訪人是積極地用新玩伴取代同事的受訪人們。就像千禧世代在最近的調查，許多我們的受訪人當他們身為未成氣候的成年人開始出社會時確實曾深信「名氣、財富與高成就」是他們為了要有美好的人生需要追求的。但是長達這 75 年來我們的研究接二連三呈現出過日子過得最好的受訪人是傾重於與家人、朋友、社群人際關係的人。 那麼你又如何呢？假定說你是 25 歲、40 歲、60 歲吧，傾重於人與人的關係會是如何的呢？ 可能性幾乎是無限大的，它也許是如同以真人來取代螢幕的時間般簡單的一些事，或共同做些新鮮事來為了無新意的關係增添幾分顏色－長行漫步或是夜間約會。或是找上你已好幾年沒講過話的家庭成員；因為那些司空見慣的家庭紛擾在放不下嫌隙之人的身上造成嚴重的損害。 我想要帶著馬克．吐溫的一句引言來收尾，100 多年前他在回顧人生的當下，他寫下這引言：「生命如此短暫，我們沒有時間添進吵鬧、辯解、怒火中燒、克盡職志；時間僅是用來愛人，不過稍縱即逝，看在愛的份上就說出來。」 好樣的人生建立在良好的人際關係上！ 謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
