Talk	en	zh-tw
robin_nagle_what_i_discovered_in_new_york_city_trash	"I was about 10 years old on a camping trip with my dad in the Adirondack Mountains, a wilderness area in the northern part of New York State. It was a beautiful day. The forest was sparkling. The sun made the leaves glow like stained glass, and if it weren't for the path we were following, we could almost pretend we were the first human beings to ever walk that land. We got to our campsite. It was a lean-to on a bluff looking over a crystal, beautiful lake, when I discovered a horror. Behind the lean-to was a dump, maybe 40 feet square with rotting apple cores and balled-up aluminum foil, and a dead sneaker. And I was astonished, I was very angry, and I was deeply confused. The campers who were too lazy to take out what they had brought in, who did they think would clean up after them? That question stayed with me, and it simplified a little. Who cleans up after us? However you configure or wherever you place the us, who cleans up after us in Istanbul? Who cleans up after us in Rio or in Paris or in London? Here in New York, the Department of Sanitation cleans up after us, to the tune of 11,000 tons of garbage and 2,000 tons of recyclables every day. I wanted to get to know them as individuals. I wanted to understand who takes the job. What's it like to wear the uniform and bear that burden? So I started a research project with them. I rode in the trucks and walked the routes and interviewed people in offices and facilities all over the city, and I learned a lot, but I was still an outsider. I needed to go deeper. So I took the job as a sanitation worker. I didn't just ride in the trucks now. I drove the trucks. And I operated the mechanical brooms and I plowed the snow. It was a remarkable privilege and an amazing education. Everyone asks about the smell. It's there, but it's not as prevalent as you think, and on days when it is really bad, you get used to it rather quickly. The weight takes a long time to get used to. I knew people who were several years on the job whose bodies were still adjusting to the burden of bearing on your body tons of trash every week. Then there's the danger. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, sanitation work is one of the 10 most dangerous occupations in the country, and I learned why. You're in and out of traffic all day, and it's zooming around you. It just wants to get past you, so it's often the motorist is not paying attention. That's really bad for the worker. And then the garbage itself is full of hazards that often fly back out of the truck and do terrible harm. I also learned about the relentlessness of trash. When you step off the curb and you see a city from behind a truck, you come to understand that trash is like a force of nature unto itself. It never stops coming. It's also like a form of respiration or circulation. It must always be in motion. And then there's the stigma. You put on the uniform, and you become invisible until someone is upset with you for whatever reason like you've blocked traffic with your truck, or you're taking a break too close to their home, or you're drinking coffee in their diner, and they will come and scorn you, and tell you that they don't want you anywhere near them. I find the stigma especially ironic, because I strongly believe that sanitation workers are the most important labor force on the streets of the city, for three reasons. They are the first guardians of public health. If they're not taking away trash efficiently and effectively every day, it starts to spill out of its containments, and the dangers inherent to it threaten us in very real ways. Diseases we've had in check for decades and centuries burst forth again and start to harm us. The economy needs them. If we can't throw out the old stuff, we have no room for the new stuff, so then the engines of the economy start to sputter when consumption is compromised. I'm not advocating capitalism, I'm just pointing out their relationship. And then there's what I call our average, necessary quotidian velocity. By that I simply mean how fast we're used to moving in the contemporary day and age. We usually don't care for, repair, clean, carry around our coffee cup, our shopping bag, our bottle of water. We use them, we throw them out, we forget about them, because we know there's a workforce on the other side that's going to take it all away. So I want to suggest today a couple of ways to think about sanitation that will perhaps help ameliorate the stigma and bring them into this conversation of how to craft a city that is sustainable and humane. Their work, I think, is kind of liturgical. They're on the streets every day, rhythmically. They wear a uniform in many cities. You know when to expect them. And their work lets us do our work. They are almost a form of reassurance. The flow that they maintain keeps us safe from ourselves, from our own dross, our cast-offs, and that flow must be maintained always no matter what. On the day after September 11 in 2001, I heard the growl of a sanitation truck on the street, and I grabbed my infant son and I ran downstairs and there was a man doing his paper recycling route like he did every Wednesday. And I tried to thank him for doing his work on that day of all days, but I started to cry. And he looked at me, and he just nodded, and he said, ""We're going to be okay. We're going to be okay."" It was a little while later that I started my research with sanitation, and I met that man again. His name is Paulie, and we worked together many times, and we became good friends. I want to believe that Paulie was right. We are going to be okay. But in our effort to reconfigure how we as a species exist on this planet, we must include and take account of all the costs, including the very real human cost of the labor. And we also would be well informed to reach out to the people who do that work and get their expertise on how do we think about, how do we create systems around sustainability that perhaps take us from curbside recycling, which is a remarkable success across 40 years, across the United States and countries around the world, and lift us up to a broader horizon where we're looking at other forms of waste that could be lessened from manufacturing and industrial sources. Municipal waste, what we think of when we talk about garbage, accounts for three percent of the nation's waste stream. It's a remarkable statistic. So in the flow of your days, in the flow of your lives, next time you see someone whose job is to clean up after you, take a moment to acknowledge them. Take a moment to say thank you. (Applause)"	我10歲左右的時候，有一次和爸爸一起去阿第倫達克山脈露營，那是一片位於紐約州北部的荒野。那天天氣特別好。森林裡處處閃閃發光。陽光照耀下，樹葉閃閃地像晶瑩的彩色玻璃。如果沒有腳下的小路，我們幾乎可以假裝我們是首批到達那片土地的人類。 我們抵達了營地，那是一個在懸崖上的營地，可以向下俯瞰一個水晶般的美麗湖泊。後來我卻發現了很糟糕的事。就在懸崖營地的後面，有個40英尺見方的大垃圾堆。裡面有爛蘋果核、用過的鋁箔紙和破舊的運動鞋。我當時非常吃驚，非常生氣，也非常非常困惑。來露營的人實在太懶了，連自己帶來的垃圾都不肯收拾。他們覺得誰會替他們清理善後呢？ 這個問題一直困擾著我，後來成了一個更簡化的問題，誰來清理我們留下的垃圾？但是你可以把這個問題放在任何你生活的地方。誰在伊斯坦堡清理我們留下的垃圾？誰在里約清理我們留下的垃圾？在巴黎或倫敦呢？在紐約，這裡，是環衛部門清理我們留下多達11,000噸的垃圾，和每天2,000噸的可回收資源。我想一個個去瞭解這些清潔工人，我想知道誰在做這樣的工作。穿上制服承擔起這份責任的感覺是什麼樣子？ 所以我開始了一項關於清潔工人的研究課題。我坐在垃圾車上，沿著收垃圾的路線，採訪全紐約在辦公室和工作現場的清潔人員。我學到了很多，但我仍然是個局外人。我需要更深入地瞭解。 於是我真的找了份清潔工人的工作。現在我不僅是坐在垃圾車裡，我還開著垃圾車。我親作操作掃街車清理大街、鏟除街上的雪。那可是一種非凡的特權，也是令人讚嘆的一課。 每個人都會問到垃圾臭味。是有臭味，但不像你想的那樣糟。有時候確實很臭，但你很快就會適應了。垃圾的重量卻需要很長的時間來適應。我就知道即使有幾年工作經驗的熟練工，他們的身體還試著在適應每週成噸的垃圾。 那麼這裡面就存在著風險。根據勞動統計局的報告，清潔工作是國內十大危險職業之一。我知道其中原委。你整天都在路上，就身處車流之中。來往的車輛只想著超過你，開車的人往往不夠小心。對清潔工人來說，這實在太糟糕了。還有呢，垃圾本身就充滿了危險，這些危害物經常會從垃圾車裡飛出，造成可怕的傷害。 我還瞭解到垃圾的殘酷和可怕。當你走下路沿，在垃圾車後觀察一個城市，你會慢慢理解垃圾就像大自然反撲的力量。它一向都是源源不絕的。用一種像是呼吸或循環的方式，它總是在動態中。 最後一點，清潔工人被汙名化。當你穿上制服，就會被視而不見，直到有人找到什麼理由為難你，嫌你的垃圾車阻礙交通呀，嫌你在離他們家很近的地方休息呀，嫌你在他們的小餐館喝咖啡呀。他們會走過來嘲笑你，告訴你離他們遠點。我覺得這樣的汙名化非常地可笑，因為我堅信清潔工人們是城市街道上最重要的勞動力， 原因有三點。他們是公共衛生的第一道屏障。如果他們每天不高效率地清理垃圾的話，垃圾會從容器中溢出，在其中的危險會以非常真實的方式威脅我們的生活。我們費時數十年、數個世紀抑制的疾病會再次爆發，開始威脅我們的健康。第二，國家經濟需要清潔工人。如果我們不丟掉舊的東西，我們就沒有空間裝新的東西。那樣的話，經濟的引擎就會停歇，因為人們的消費減少了。我不主張資本主義，我在這裡只是指出它們的關係。第三個原因就是我稱之為我們平均、必要的生活步調。我的意思是說在現今的年代和日子裡，我們是如此地習慣於奔忙。我們通常不會在意、修理、清潔、隨身攜帶我們的咖啡杯、購物袋和水瓶。我們使用它們，然後扔掉它們、忘掉它們，因為我們知道會有一支工作隊伍在一旁把這些東西清理掉。 所以今天我想提供幾個觀點，也許能夠幫助清潔工人，為他們正名，把他們請來參與談論如何打造一個永續且人道的城市。我認為他們的工作是很崇高的，他們每天按時在街上工作。在很多城市中，他們會穿著制服，你知道他們會準時來清理垃圾。是他們讓我們可以安心做自己的工作。他們幾乎成了安心工作的保證。他們不停的工作讓我們安全無憂，不必擔心我們剩下的糟粕和垃圾。這樣不停歇的工作無論如何都不能中斷。 2001年9月11日的隔天，我聽著街上垃圾車咆哮而來，我拉著年幼的兒子跑下樓。有個回收報紙的工人正在做他每週三都做的工作。我要感謝他在那麼特殊的日子裡，做這些工作，但我忍不住哭了起來。他望著我，只是點點頭，然後說，「我們會沒事的。我們會沒事的。」後來在我剛開始研究清潔工作的時候，我再次遇見了那個人。他的名字叫保利，我們一起工作過許多次，還成了好朋友。 我願意相信保利的話是對的。我們會沒事的。但我們作為這個星球的一分子，我們需要努力地進行重建。我們必須考慮到所有的消耗，包括活生生的勞動人力消耗。而且我們要廣納良言，和從事這個行業的人們交流，請他們以專業角度為我們的看法提供建議，關於如何建立一個能夠永續經營的制度，也許讓我們減少街道回收的工作，戰勝這項40年來在美國和世界各國的習慣，將大家提升到更高的水平。如此一來，我們就能思考如何處理在製造業和工業生產過程中能夠被減少的垃圾。當我們提到垃圾時，通常想到的就是城市的垃圾，其實只占國內垃圾總量的3％。這是個驚人的數據。 在你的日常生活中，在你的生命之流裡，下一次當你看到有人在清理你留下的垃圾時，請找個時間向他們致意，找個時間說聲謝謝。 （掌聲）
