Talk	en	zh-tw
rodney_mullen_pop_an_ollie_and_innovate	"(Music) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) So, that's what I've done with my life. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) As a kid, I grew up on a farm in Florida, and I did what most little kids do. I played a little baseball, did a few other things like that, but I always had the sense of being an outsider, and it wasn't until I saw pictures in the magazines that a couple other guys skate, I thought, ""Wow, that's for me,"" you know? Because there was no coach standing directly over you, and these guys, they were just being themselves. There was no opponent directly across from you. And I loved that sense, so I started skating when I was about 10 years old, in 1977, and when I did, I picked it up pretty quickly. In fact, here's some footage from about 1984. It wasn't until 79 I won my first amateur championship, and then, by 81, I was 14, and I won my first world championship, which was amazing to me, and in a very real sense, that was the first real victory I had. Oh, watch this. This is a Casper slide, where the board's upside down. Mental note on that one. (Laughter) And this one here? An ollie. So, as she mentioned, that is overstated for sure, but that's why they called me the godfather of modern street skating. Here's some images of that. Now, I was about halfway through my pro career in, I would say, the mid-'80s. Freestyle itself — we developed all these flat ground tricks, as you saw, but there was evolving a new kind of skateboarding, where guys were taking it to the streets, and they were using that ollie, like I showed you. They were using it to get up onto stuff like bleachers and handrails and over stairwells and all kinds of cool stuff. So it was evolving upwards. In fact, when someone tells you they're a skater today, they pretty much mean a street skater, because freestyle, it took about five years for it to die, and at that stage, I'd been a ""champion"" champion for 11 years, which — Phew! And suddenly, it was over for me, that's it — it was gone. They took my pro model off the shelf, which was essentially pronouncing you dead, publicly. That's how you make your money, you know? You have a signature board and wheels and shoes and clothes. I had all that stuff, and it's gone. The crazy thing was, there was a really liberating sense about it, because I no longer had to protect my record as a champion. ""Champion,"" again. Champion sounds so goofy, but it's what it was, right? What drew me to skateboarding, the freedom, was now restored, where I could just create things, because that's where the joy was for me, always, was creating new stuff. The other thing that I had was a deep well of tricks to draw from that were rooted in these flat ground tricks. Stuff the normal guys were doing was very much different. So, as humbling and rotten as it was — And believe me, it was rotten. I would go to skate spots, and I was already ""famous guy,"" right? And everyone thought I was good, but in this new terrain, I was horrible. So people would go, ""Oh, what happened to Mullen?"" (Laughter) So, humbling as it was, I began again. Here are some tricks that I started to bring to that new terrain. And again, there's this undergirding layer of influence of freestyle — Oh, that one? That's, like, the hardest thing I've ever done. OK, look at that, it's a Darkslide. See how it's sliding on the backside? Those are super fun, and, actually, not that hard. You know, at the very root of that, see, Caspers, see how you throw it? Simple as that, right? No biggie. And your front foot, the way it grabs it — I'd seen someone slide on the back of the board like that, and I was like, ""How can I get it over?"" Because that had not yet been done. And then it dawned on me, and here's part of what I'm saying. I had an infrastructure. I had this deep layer, where it was like, oh my gosh, it's just your foot. It's just the way you throw your board over. Just let the ledge do that, and it's easy, and the next thing you know, there's 20 more tricks based out of the variations. So that's the kind of thing — here, check this out, here's another way, and I won't overdo this. A little indulgent, I understand. There's something called a Primo slide. It is the funnest trick ever to do. It's like skimboarding. And this one, look how it slides sideways, every which way? OK, so when you're skating, and you take a fall, the board slips that way or that way; it's kind of predictable. This? It goes every which way — it's like a cartoon, the falls, and that's what I love the most about it. It's so much fun to do. In fact, when I started doing them, I remember, because I got hurt. I had to get a knee surgery, right? So there were a couple of weeks where I couldn't skate at all. It would give out on me, and I would watch the guys, I'd go to this warehouse where a lot of the guys were skating, my friends, and I was like, ""I've got to do something new, I want to do something new. I want to start fresh."" And so the night before my surgery, I'd watched, and I was like, ""How am I going to do this?"" So I ran up, and I jumped on my board, and I Cavemanned, and I flipped it down, and I remember thinking, I landed so light-footed, thinking, if my knee gives, they'll just have more work to do in the morning. (Laughter) And so, when it was the crazy thing. I don't know how many of you guys have had surgery, but — (Laughter) you are so helpless, right? You're on this gurney and you're watching the ceiling go by, every time, it's always that, and right when they're putting the mask on you before you go to sleep, all I was thinking is, ""Man, when I wake up and I get better, the first thing I'm going to do is film that trick."" And indeed I did, it was the very first thing I filmed, which was awesome. I told you a little bit about the evolution of the tricks. Consider that content, in a sense. What we do as street skaters is, you have these tricks — Say I'm working on Darkslides, or a Primo, that you guys know this stuff now. (Laughter) What you do is, you cruise around the same streets that you've seen a hundred times, but suddenly, because you already have something in this fixed domain of this target, it's like, what will match this trick? How can I expand, how can the context, how can the environment change the very nature of what I do? So you drive and drive and drive, and, actually I've got to admit, just because I was struggling with this because I'm here, but I'll just say it, is, I cannot tell you, not only to be here in front of you, but what a privilege it is to be at US campus, because I have been escorted off of this campus so many times. (Laughter) (Applause) So let me give you another example of how context shapes content. This is a place not that far from here, It's a rotten neighborhood. Your first consideration is, am I going to get beat up? You go out and — See this wall? It's fairly mellow, and it's beckoning to do bank tricks, right? But there's this other aspect of it for wheelies, so check this out. There's a few tricks, again, how environment changes the nature of your tricks. Freestyle oriented, manual down — wheelie down. Watch, this one? Oh, I love this, it's like surfing, this one, the way you catch it. This one, a little sketchy going backwards, and watch the back foot. Oops — (Laughter) Mental note right there. Again, we'll get back to that. (Laughter) Here, back foot, back foot. OK, up there? That was called a 360 flip. Notice how the board flipped and spun this way, both axes. And another example of how the context changed, and the creative process for me and for most skaters, is, you go, you get out of the car, you check for security, you check for stuff. (Laughter) It's funny, you get to know their rhythms, you know, the guys that cruise around — (Laughter) Skateboarding is such a humbling thing, man. No matter how good you are, you've still got to deal with — So you hit this wall, and when I hit it, the first thing you do is you fall forward, and I'm like, all right, all right. As you adjust ... you punch it up, and then when I would do that, it was throwing my shoulder this way ... which as I was doing it, I was like, ""Oh wow, that's begging for a 360 flip,"" because that's how you load up for a 360 flip. And so this is what I want to emphasize that, as you can imagine, all of these tricks are made of submovements, executive motor functions, more granular to the degree to which I can't quite tell you, but one thing I do know is, every trick is made of combining two or three or four or five movements. And so, as I'm going up, these things are floating around, and you have to sort of let the cognitive mind rest back, pull it back a little bit, and let your intuition go as you feel these things. And these submovements are kind of floating around, and as the wall hits you, they connect themselves to an extent, and that's when the cognitive mind: ""Oh, 360 flip, I'm going to make that."" So that's how that works to me, the creative process, the process itself, of street skating. So, next — Oh, mind you ... (Laughter) Those are the community. These are some of the best skaters in the world. These are my friends — oh my gosh, they're such good people. And the beauty of skateboarding is that, no one guy is the best. In fact, I know this is rotten to say, they're my friends, but a couple of them actually don't look that comfortable on their board. What makes them great is the degree to which they use their skateboarding to individuate themselves. Every single one of these guys, you look at them, you can see a silhouette of them, and you realize, ""Oh, that's him, that's Haslam, that's Koston, there's these guys, these are the guys."" And skaters, I think they tend to be outsiders who seek a sense of belonging, but belonging on their own terms. And real respect is given by how much we take what other guys do, these basic tricks, 360 flips, we take that, we make it our own, and then we contribute back to the community the inner way that edifies the community itself. The greater the contribution, the more we express and form our individuality, which is so important to a lot of us who feel like rejects to begin with. The summation of that gives us something we could never achieve as an individual. I should say this. There's some sort of beautiful symmetry that the degree to which we connect to a community is in proportion to our individuality, which we are expressing by what we do. Next, these guys, very similar community that's extremely conducive to innovation. (Laughter) Notice a couple of these shots from the police department. But it is quite similar, I mean, what is it to hack, right? It's knowing a technology so well that you can manipulate it and steer it to do things it was never intended to do, right? And they're not all bad. You can be a Linux kernel hacker, make it more stable, right? More safe, more secure. You can be an iOS hacker, make your iPhone do stuff it wasn't supposed to. Not authorized, but not illegal. And then, you've got some of these guys, right? What they do is very similar to our creative process. They connect disparate information, and they bring it together in a way that a security analyst doesn't expect. It doesn't make them good people, but it's at the heart of engineering, at the heart of a creative community, an innovative community, and the open source community, the basic ethos of it is, take what other people do, make it better, give it back so we all rise further. Very similar communities, very similar. We have our edgier sides, too. (Laughter) It's funny, my dad was right. These are my peers. But I respect what they do, and they respect what I do, because they can do things, it's amazing what they can do. In fact, one of them, he was Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year for San Diego County, so they're not — you never know who you're dealing with. We've all had some degree of fame. In fact, I've had so much success that I strangely always feel unworthy of. I've had a patent, and that was cool, and we started a company, and it grew, and it became the biggest, and then it went down, and then it became the biggest again, which is harder than the first time, and then we sold it, and then we sold it again. So I've had some success. And in the end, when you've had all of these things, what is it that continues to drive you? As I mentioned, the knee stuff and these things, what is it that will punch you? Because it's not just the mind. What is it that will punch you and make you do something and bring it to another level, and when you've had it all, sometimes, guys, they die on the vine with all of that talent, and one of the things we've had, all of us, is fame — I think the best kind of fame, because you can take it off. I've been all around the world, and there will be a thousand kids crying out your name, and it's such a weird, visceral experience. It's like, it's disorienting. And you get in a car, and you drive away, and 10-minute drive, and you get out, and no one gives a rat's who you are. (Laughter) And it gives you that clarity of perspective of, man, I'm just me, and popularity, what does that really mean again? Not much. It's peer respect that drives us. That's the one thing that makes us do what we do. I've had over a dozen bones, this guy, over, eight, 10 concussions, to the point where it's comedy, right? It is actually comedy, they mess with him. (Laughter) Next, and this is something deeper. I think I was on tour when I was reading one of the Feynman biographies. It was the red one or the blue one. And he made this statement that was so profound to me. It was that the Nobel Prize was the tombstone on all great work, and it resonated because I had won 35 out of 36 contests that I'd entered over 11 years, and it made me bananas. In fact, winning isn't the word, I won it once. The rest of the time, you're just defending, and you get into this, turtle posture, you know? Where you're not doing — it usurped the joy of what I loved to do because I was no longer doing it to create and have fun, and when it died out from under me, that was one of the most liberating things, because I could create. And look, I understand that I am on the very edge of preachy, here. I'm not here to do that. It's just that I'm in front of a very privileged audience. If you guys aren't already leaders in your community, you probably will be, and if there's anything I can give you that will transcend what I've gotten from skateboarding, the only things of meaning, I think, and of permanence, it's not fame, it's not all these things. What it is, is that there's an intrinsic value in creating something for the sake of creating it, and better than that, because I'm 46 years old, or I'll be 46, and how pathetic is that I'm still skateboarding, but there is — there is this beauty in dropping it into a community of your own making, and seeing it dispersed, and seeing younger, more talented, just different talent, take it to levels you can never imagine, because that lives on. So thank you for your time. (Applause) Kristina Holly: I have a question for you. (Applause) So you've really reinvented yourself in the past, from freestyle to street, and, I think it was about four years ago you officially retired. Is that it? What's next? Rodney Mullen: That's a good question. KG: Something tells me it's not the end. RM: Yeah. Every time you think you've chased something down, it's funny, no matter how good you are, and I know guys like this, it feels like you're polishing a turd, you know? (Laughter) And I thought, the only way I can extend this is to change something infrastructural. And so that's what I proceeded to do, through a long story, one of desperation, so if I do it, rather than talk about it, if I do it, you'll be the first to know. KG: All right, we won't ask you any more. RM: You'll get a text. KG: Right, thank you, good job. RM: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	（音樂）（滑板聲）（音樂）（掌聲） 這就是我的人生中所做的事。（眾笑）（掌聲）多謝。（掌聲） 小時候，我在佛羅里達州的農場長大，做些大部分小孩子都愛做的事情。我玩過一點兒棒球，也有一些其他的，但我總有一種感覺，自己是個門外漢，直到我在雜誌中見到一班別的小伙子在踏滑板的照片；我想，「對，我找的就是這個了，」你明白嗎？因為沒有教練在旁指導你，而這班傢伙，只是做回自己。沒有對手跟你競賽。我很愛這種感覺，所以我開始玩滑板。那年我大約十歲，是 1977 年。我就這樣開始了，也很快上手。這就是大約 1984 年時拍的一些資料片段。不過，直到 1979 年，我才贏得首個業餘賽冠軍，之後到 1981 年，我十四歲，贏得首面世界冠軍，實在令我很驚嘆，而那次，實實在在是我人生中首次真正的勝利。 噢，看看。這招是卡斯坡滑（Casper Slide），板身底面反轉。要做好心理建設。（眾笑）而這個呢？是豚跳（Ollie）。所以，正如她所說，雖然肯定是言過其實，但這正是為何人稱我為「現代街頭滑板教父」。這是一些相關照片。 此時的我，正在朝滑板專業的半途，大概是 80 年代中左右。所謂自由式，我們自創了這些平地上的技巧如剛才所見，但進化出來的卻是一種全新的滑板運動，帶到街頭，而他們就用那種豚跳，就像我剛才所示範；他們用這種技巧做出躍上階梯座椅或扶手或穿梭梯間等酷極了的招數。所以說實在是不斷向上進化。其實，現在當有人自稱為滑板手，所指的大抵是街頭滑板手，因為自由式，大概五年也算沒落了，而那時，我已是冠軍賽中的冠軍長達十一年；真是，呼！之後，突然間就消失了。就這樣。就此就完了。我的專業形像被搬下架，也就是說我已是過氣名星。這就是撈金法則，你知道嗎？你有過自己簽名的滑板、輪子、鞋子，還有衣服。風光一時，卻瞬間失去。 最荒謬的是，也真的大快人心，因為我再也無需守護冠軍之名了。又是「冠軍」。「冠軍」聽來很傻，但曾經也是如假包換，對吧？之後我得到──當初我玩滑板的原因，那種自由隨之也得以重拾了，我可以只顧創作，因為這正是我曾經的樂趣，一直都是，就是創造新的事物。另一樣我擁有的東西，就是唾手可得的一門子招式，就是那些紮根於平地技巧的招式。跟平時那些別的人做的不一樣。 此後，儘管聽來很遜很爛──相信我，真的很爛。我打算轉往熱門滑板勝地發展但我已像是，「知名人物」，對吧？因此人人都覺得我應該表現不錯。但在這個新領域中，其實我很差。所以人們便會說：「噢，他真是……」「噢，Mullen 他怎麼了？」（眾笑）（笑） 就這樣，很遜的，我又開始了。這是一些我帶到新領域的招式。（滑板聲）這是一些我帶到新領域的招式。（滑板聲）而且都是，受到那自由式的基本功影響，讓我──噢，那個？這似乎是我做過最難的了。好，看好。這個是暗滑（Darkslide）。有看到如何用後板身去滑嗎？真是超有趣。（眾笑）而且，事實上，不是太難。其實，歸根究底，看，是卡斯坡滑，看怎樣在空中翻板？（滑板聲）就是這樣簡單，對吧？沒什麼大不了。（眾笑）而你的前腳，怎樣抓板，就是──我曾經見過有人用後板身這樣的滑，之後我就想，「究竟可以怎樣去翻板？」因為實在未曾試過。之後我忽發其想，而接下來是我所說的。我有了一個底層架構。我有了這一個深的基層，就像在想，對吧，就是怎樣用腳吧。就是你翻板的方式吧。就用板子邊緣去做，其實很簡單，而你接着就知道，還有多 20 幾個招式是大同小異的。 就是這樣的一回事，看看這裏，這是另一種方式，我不會過份說明。有點講太多了，我知道。有一種叫普利姆滑（Primo Slide）。（滑板聲）這算是最有趣的招式了。（滑板聲）就像是玩沙板（Skinboarding）。 而這個，看怎樣用輪架側面滑，左搖右擺的？好了，當你在滑板上，快要跌倒了，滑板會往前或往後溜。其實預料得到。用側面呢？就要東歪西倒。就像卡通一樣亂擺，而這正是我最喜歡的地方。實在是太有趣了。事實上，當我開始嘗試時，我記得，因為我受過傷。我膝蓋要動手術，沒錯。所以其實有好幾天，其實是好幾個星期，我根本完全不能玩滑板。一滑就要倒下來。而我就會在旁觀看，我會去那個大伙玩滑板的倉庫，是我的朋友，我就一邊想：「天啊，我定要做些新的出來。我要造新的。我要重新開始。重新出發。」而到手術前一晚，我一樣在旁邊看了，我就想：「究竟怎樣我才能做到？」所以我一躍而起，跳上滑板，心頭勇猛，我就將滑板翻下，而我記得我在想，我實在是就着力輕輕落地，心想，若膝蓋太使力，明早手術就更複雜了。（笑）（眾笑） 然後，就到那荒唐的事了。不知在座有多少人動過手術，但─（眾笑）─就是那般無助，對吧？你躺在病床上看著天花板移過，每次都如是，而正當他們要替你放上面罩好讓你睡過去時，我只顧想著：「天啊，當我醒來，稍為好轉時，我第一件要做的事情就是把那招式拍下來。」（眾笑）而我確實這麼做了。那就是我拍攝下來的第一樣事情，那棒呆了。 現在，讓我──我說過一點有關招式的進化。試試這樣的想其內容。做街頭滑板手，你有的是招式。比方說我在做暗滑，或者普利姆滑，你們現在都清楚這些技倆了。 （眾笑）（笑）你做的是在那些見過百多次相同的街道中徘徊，但突然間，因為你對這個固定的領域中對目標已有些想法，就會想，究竟甚麼會與這招式配搭？我可以怎樣拓展，怎樣的情境，怎樣的環境究竟會如何改變我所做的之根本性質？所以你不斷上下探索，而其實，我也該承認，儘管我人在這裏難免有些猶豫，但坦白說，我不知該怎麼跟你們說，除了能夠在這裏與你們見面外，能夠身處南加州大學校園是多麼的榮幸，因為我曾被驅逐出此校園不知多少次。 （眾笑）（掌聲） 讓我再舉個例子，說明一下情境如何塑造內容。這是個離這裏不遠的地方。是個荒廢的鄰舍。你第一個考慮是，究竟我是否會被逐出去？你走出來並──見到這堵牆嗎？頗棒的，似是暗示要你來耍坡岸招式吧？但這另一方面又暗示後輪滑（Wheelie），不如一齊看看。其實有多個招式，再一次說明環境怎樣改變招式的性質。自由式主導，後輪滑落地──重心放後輪。看，這個？噢，我的至愛。就像滑浪一樣，這個，看怎樣抓板。這個，有點兒湊合向後傾，當心後腳，看好後腳。糟。（笑） 那個就是心理建設了。說回主題。這兒。後腳，後腳。好，上面？這叫做轉體 360 度。留意板身怎樣翻騰，沿着兩軸旋轉。 而另一個例子說明情境如何改變，以及對於我或大部分滑板手的創造過程，就是，你打開車門，走出去，你看看有沒有保全人員，你看看四周。（眾笑）很有趣，你得清楚他們的步調，對吧，那些四周巡邏的人，而滑板就是多麼遜的事情啊，老兄。無論你有多麼好，沒錯，你都要面對—當你迎向這堵牆時，而當我要着陸時，第一次你總會向前俯，而我就想，很好，很好。隨着你慢慢調整，你逐漸能挺起身，然後當我做到時，我的肩膀往這邊兒拋了，當我在做動作時，就像是想：「真的假的，是個轉體 360 度的呼喚，」因為這就是你如何蓄勢做轉體 360 度。 這就是我想強調的一點，可以想像，所有這些招式都是由子動作構成的，就是那些人體能實施的運動功能，細微得我也不能解釋，但一樣事情我確實知道的是，每個招式都是將兩至三個甚至四到五個動作結合而成的。所以，當我往上衝，這些元素也在四處飄浮，而你就儘管讓頭腦的認知，像是放鬆，放鬆一點兒，讓你的直覺，隨着你的感覺走。而這些子動作就像是隨處飛，而當你迎向那堵牆時，它們就結合起來，直到那一刻，你的認知，你的想法也告訴你：「噢，轉體 360 度，正是我要的。」這就是在我背後運作的方式，創造的過程，街頭滑板本身的過程。 接著……噢，我說的呢。（笑） 那些是社群的一分子。這些是世界中一些頂尖滑板手。這些是我的朋友。老天，是很棒的人。而滑板之美在於，沒一個人是最棒的。其實，我知道這是很爛的說法，他們是我的朋友，但其中有好幾個其實看起來踏滑板不太在行。他們妙的地方在他們如何用滑板建立自我。他們每一個人，當你看見他們，你都能看到一個背影，然後你領悟到：「噢，是他．那是 Haslam，那是 Koston，就是這班傢伙，就是他們。」 而滑板手，我想他們大多傾向當一個在找尋一種歸屬感的外人，卻聽從內心的歸屬，而真正對人的敬仰，在於我們如何接納其他人所做的，這些基本招式，轉體 360 度，我們接納它，變成自己的，然後貢獻出一分力，回饋社群的內在，讓社群能得以榮升。貢獻愈大，我們就愈能表達和形成自我的個性，對我們很多人來說實在重大，足以撫平起初遭受到的那些回絕。匯聚起來，我們達到以一己之力不可能的事。我該這樣說。有種對稱的美，我們與社群連繫的程度，取決於我們的個性如何，而我們所做的來表達自己。 之後。這夥人。一個很相似的社群同樣也很崇尚創新。留意這數張照片，是從警察局提供的。但也頗相似吧。我的意思是，有甚麼需要破解的，對吧？就像是了解一種科技如此透徹，以至於可以駕馭自如，讓它做些意想不到的事情，對吧？而且也非全是壞事。你可以做個 Linux 系統核心的破解師，讓系統更穩定吧？更安全，更具保安。你可以破解 iOS 系統，讓你的 iPhone 做些意料之外的事情。未經授權，卻也不至於犯法。有這樣的一些人，對吧？他們所做的與我們的創造過程十分相似。他們將零散的資訊結合起來，帶出一種新方式，連保安專家也預料不到。對吧？他們不會因此成為好人，但這確是工程學的核心，一個創意社群的中心，一個創新的社群，以及開放式社群，其基本理念是取他人之長，更盡完善，回饋以致全體的榮升。兩者是很相似的社群，非常相似。 我們也有些較新潮的一面。很有趣的，我爸說的沒錯，我們都是同一伙的。但我敬重他們所做的，而他們亦敬重我所做的，因為他們能夠做得出來。做得出來一鳴驚人。其實，其中一位是《安永企業家獎》聖地牙哥縣的得主，所以他們永遠是深藏不露的。 我們全都算是小有名氣。事實上，我的成功之多，奇怪的，我總覺得不算甚麼。我有過一項專利，炫極了，之後我們開立一間公司，規模日盛，更成為首屈一指的，之後公司走下坡，卻又能再次成為首屈一指的，比第一次更艱難，之後我們就把公司賣掉，然後又再一次賣掉。所以我算是有過一些成就。但到最後，當你都有齊所有的一切，還剩下甚麼繼續作為你的驅動力？如我剛才所說，膝患等的事，能激勵你的究竟是甚麼？因為不單只是想法。有甚麼能真正痛擊你，驅使你做好一樣事情，帶到另一個境界；而當你得到了一切，有時候，各位，一身好本領卻是個緊箍咒，而其中一樣我們都曾經擁有的，我們所有人，就是名氣，我想該是最佳的名氣，因為是能夠抽身而退的。我走遍過世界各地，會有成千名小孩高呼你的名字，卻是多麼怪異，令人毛骨悚然的經歷。就像是，叫人暈頭轉向。然後你走進車廂，駕車離去，駕了十分鐘，再走出來，卻無人理睬。（笑）一種清晰的視覺油然而生，老兄，我就是我，知名度什麼的，究竟還代表些甚麼？意義不大。是同儕間的敬仰驅動我們。那是惟一的事物驅使我們做我們所做的事情。我有過好一打骨頭，這幾個人，這個，超過，多少？八，十次震傷，像在演喜劇一般，對吧？就像是做喜劇。他們全跟他一起瘋掉。 之後。有一樣更深層的，就是當我……應該是在出戰巡迴賽的時候，我讀了其中一本費曼的自傳。不記得是紅色的還是藍色的那本。他的一句說話令我印象深刻。他說諾貝爾獎是一切偉大事業的墓石，這句話在我心中迴盪，因為 36 項賽事中我已贏了 35 個，而且入行超過 11 年，開始讓人要命了。其實，常勝一詞用詞不當。我只是贏了一次。其餘的時間，不過是衛冕而已，逐漸你就好似，人就是龜縮在一團，你明白嗎？你並不在做自己。那種做自己所愛的歡樂被奪去了，因為我不再是為了創造並享受其中，而當它要捨我而去時，卻是一種釋放，因為我能夠創造了。 而且，看，我明白我在這裏快變成說教了。我並不是為這來的。而是我站在一班很有幸的觀眾面前。假若你們還不是社群中的領袖，有一天也許也會當上，若果我能夠留給你們一些甚麼的，並且超越我從滑板中學到的，惟一有意義的事，我認為，而且得以永恆的，不是名氣，不是所有那些。而應該是那種為創造而創造的的內在價值，並且做得更好，那種為創造而創造的的內在價值，並且做得更好，因為，老兄，我已 46 歲了，或相距不遠，我仍在滑板真是悲哀，但是─（眾笑）─能將它放回你協力創造的社群，有這一份美，看着它散開蔓延，看着更年輕、更有才幹的，不同的青年才幹，帶它走到你永遠無法想像的新境界，因為它是永續不息的。多謝你們。 （掌聲） Krisztina Holly：我想問個問題。你真的從自己的過去讓自己重生，從自由式到街頭滑板，直到，我想約四年前你正式退休了。就此打住嗎？之後有甚麼打算？ Rodney Mullen：好問題。 KH：直覺似乎未到終結。 RM：沒錯。我，每次當你認為你追逐到一些事情，很有趣的，無論你有多好，而我也認識這樣的人，你感覺上覺得你只是在替朽木作修飾罷了。你明白嗎？（眾笑）而我想，惟一我能拓展的方法就是去改變一些底層架構上的事情，而這正是我着手的事情，是個漫長的故事，會令人沮喪的故事，所以若我落手實幹，而非紙上談兵，若果我做的話，第一個會告訴你。 KH：好的，我們也不再追問。RM：我會給你短訊。KH：（笑)）好的。多謝你。十分精采。（掌聲）RM:：多謝。多謝。（掌聲）（掌聲）
