Talk	en	zh-tw
romina_libster_the_power_of_herd_immunity	"One of the first patients I had to see as a pediatrician was Sol, a beautiful month-old baby who was admitted with signs of a severe respiratory infection. Until then, I had never seen a patient worsen so fast. In just two days she was connected to a respirator and on the third day she died. Sol had whooping cough. After discussing the case in the room and after a quite distressing catharsis, I remember my chief resident said to me, ""Okay, take a deep breath. Wash your face. And now comes the hardest part: We have to go talk to her parents."" At that time, a thousand questions came to mind, from, ""How could a one-month-old baby be so unfortunate?"" to, ""Could we have done something about it?"" Before vaccines existed, many infectious diseases killed millions of people per year. During the 1918 flu pandemic 50 million people died. That's greater than Argentina's current population. Perhaps, the older ones among you remember the polio epidemic that occurred in Argentina in 1956. At that time, there was no vaccine available against polio. People didn't know what to do. They were going crazy. They would go painting trees with caustic lime. They'd put little bags of camphor in their children's underwear, as if that could do something. During the polio epidemic, thousands of people died. And thousands of people were left with very significant neurological damage. I know this because I read about it, because thanks to vaccines, my generation was lucky to not live through an epidemic as terrible as this. Vaccines are one of the great successes of the 20th century's public health. After potable water, they are the interventions that have most reduced mortality, even more than antibiotics. Vaccines eradicated terrible diseases such as smallpox from the planet and succeeded in significantly reducing mortality due to other diseases such as measles, whooping cough, polio and many more. All these diseases are considered vaccine-preventable diseases. What does this mean? That they are potentially preventable, but in order to be so, something must be done. You need to get vaccinated. I imagine that most, if not all of us here today, received a vaccine at some point in our life. Now, I'm not so sure that many of us know which vaccines or boosters we should receive after adolescence. Have you ever wondered who we are protecting when we vaccinate? What do I mean by that? Is there any other effect beyond protecting ourselves? Let me show you something. Imagine for a moment that we are in a city that has never had a case of a particular disease, such as the measles. This would mean that no one in the city has ever had contact with the disease. No one has natural defenses against, nor been vaccinated against measles. If one day, a person sick with the measles appears in this city the disease won't find much resistance and will begin spreading from person to person, and in no time it will disseminate throughout the community. After a certain time a big part of the population will be ill. This happened when there were no vaccines. Now, imagine the complete opposite case. We are in a city where more than 90 percent of the population has defenses against the measles, which means that they either had the disease, survived, and developed natural defenses; or that they had been immunized against measles. If one day, a person sick with the measles appears in this city, the disease will find much more resistance and won't be transmitted that much from person to person. The spread will probably remain contained and a measles outbreak won't happen. I would like you to pay attention to something. People who are vaccinated are not only protecting themselves, but by blocking the dissemination of the disease within the community, they are indirectly protecting the people in this community who are not vaccinated. They create a kind of protective shield which prevents them from coming in contact with the disease, so that these people are protected. This indirect protection that the unvaccinated people within a community receive simply by being surrounded by vaccinated people, is called herd immunity. Many people in the community depend almost exclusively on this herd immunity to be protected against disease. The unvaccinated people you see in infographics are not just hypothetical. Those people are our nieces and nephews, our children, who may be too young to receive their first shots. They are our parents, our siblings, our acquaintances, who may have a disease, or take medication that lowers their defenses. There are also people who are allergic to a particular vaccine. They could even be among us, any of us who got vaccinated, but the vaccine didn't produce the expected effect, because not all vaccines are always 100 percent effective. All these people depend almost exclusively on herd immunity to be protected against diseases. To achieve this effect of herd immunity, it is necessary that a large percentage of the population be vaccinated. This percentage is called the threshold. The threshold depends on many variables: It depends on the germ's characteristics, and those of the immune response that the vaccine generates. But they all have something in common. If the percentage of the population in a vaccinated community is below this threshold number, the disease will begin to spread more freely and may generate an outbreak of this disease within the community. Even diseases which were  at some point controlled may reappear. This is not just a theory. This has happened, and is still happening. In 1998, a British researcher published an article in one of the most important medical journals, saying that the MMR vaccine, which is given for measles, mumps and rubella, was associated with autism. This generated an immediate impact. People began to stop getting vaccinated, and stopped vaccinating their children. And what happened? The number of people vaccinated, in many communities around the world, fell below this threshold. And there were outbreaks of measles in many cities in the world — in the U.S., in Europe. Many people got sick. People died of measles. What happened? This article also generated a huge stir within the medical community. Dozens of researchers began to assess if this was actually true. Not only could no one find a causal association between MMR and autism at the population level, but it was also found that this article had incorrect claims. Even more, it was fraudulent. It was fraudulent. In fact, the journal publicly retracted the article in 2010. One of the main concerns and excuses for not getting vaccinated are the adverse effects. Vaccines, like other drugs, can have potential adverse effects. Most are mild and temporary. But the benefits are always greater than possible complications. When we are ill, we want to heal fast. Many of us who are here take antibiotics when we have an infection, we take anti-hypertensives when we have high blood pressure, we take cardiac medications. Why? Because we are sick and we want to heal fast. And we don't question it much. Why is it so difficult to think of preventing diseases, by taking care of ourselves when we are healthy? We take care of ourselves a lot when affected by an illness, or in situations of imminent danger. I imagine most of us here, remember the influenza-A pandemic which broke out in 2009 in Argentina and worldwide. When the first cases began to come to light, we, here in Argentina, were entering the winter season. We knew absolutely nothing. Everything was a mess. People wore masks on the street, ran into pharmacies to buy alcohol gel. People would line up in pharmacies to get a vaccine, without even knowing if it was the right vaccine that would protect them against this new virus. We knew absolutely nothing. At that time, in addition to doing my fellowship at the Infant Foundation, I worked as a home pediatrician for a prepaid medicine company. I remember that I started my shift at 8 a.m., and by 8, I already had a list of 50 scheduled visits. It was chaos; people didn't know what to do. I remember the types of patients that I was examining. The patients were a little older than what we were used to seeing in winter, with longer fevers. And I mentioned that to my fellowship mentor, and he, for his part, had heard the same from a colleague, about the large number of pregnant women and young adults being hospitalized in intensive care, with hard-to-manage clinical profiles. At that time, we set out to understand what was happening. First thing Monday morning, we took the car and went to a hospital in Buenos Aires Province, that served as a referral hospital for cases of the new influenza virus. We arrived at the hospital; it was crowded. All health staff were dressed in NASA-like bio-safety suits. We all had face masks in our pockets. I, being a hypochondriac, didn't breathe for two hours. But we could see what was happening. Immediately, we started reaching out to pediatricians from six hospitals in the city and in Buenos Aires Province. Our main goal was to find out how this new virus behaved in contact with our children, in the shortest time possible. A marathon work. In less than three months, we could see what effect this new H1N1 virus had on the 251 children hospitalized by this virus. We could see which children got more seriously ill: children under four, especially those less than one year old; patients with neurological diseases; and young children with chronic pulmonary diseases. Identifying these at-risk groups was important to include them as priority groups in the recommendations for getting the influenza vaccine, not only here in Argentina, but also in other countries which the pandemic not yet reached. A year later, when a vaccine against the pandemic H1N1 virus became available, we wanted to see what happened. After a huge vaccination campaign aimed at protecting at-risk groups, these hospitals, with 93 percent of the at-risk groups vaccinated, had not hospitalized a single patient for the pandemic H1N1 virus. (Applause) In 2009: 251. In 2010: zero. Vaccination is an act of individual responsibility, but it has a huge collective impact. If I get vaccinated, not only am I protecting myself, but I am also protecting others. Sol had whooping cough. Sol was very young, and she hadn't yet received her first vaccine against whooping cough. I still wonder what would have happened if everyone around Sol had been vaccinated. (Applause)"	成為小兒科醫生後我要接見的第一個病人叫索爾是一個很美麗的彌月嬰兒她患有很嚴重呼吸道感染的徵兆直到那時為止我從未見過一個病人惡化得那麼快只在兩天裡，她就要接駁呼吸器第三天她就離世了索爾患上了百日咳在房間裡經過一番討論經過很令人心痛的宣泄之後我記得我的總住院醫師曾經對我說：「好了，深呼吸，洗個臉吧現在才是最困難我們要向她的父母解釋。」那時候，我腦海裡出現很多問題從「怎麼一個彌月的嬰兒會這麼不幸？」到「我們是否能做些甚麼呢？」在疫苗出現之前很多傳染病每年奪去數百萬人的性命1989年流感大流行時期5千萬人死亡比阿限廷現在的人口還多或許，在座有年紀大一點的會記得1956年在阿限廷發生了一場小兒麻痺流行病在那時候，沒有適合的疫苗對抗小兒麻痺人們都無計可施他們都快要被迫瘋了他們用生石灰畫樹他們將小包的樟腦放進小孩的內衣褲裡彷彿可以產生一些作用在這場小兒麻痺流行病中有幾千人死亡另外有數千人患有影響非常大的神經損害後遺症我是因為閱讀而知道這事件的因為感激疫苗的出現我們這世代很幸運不用經歷像那樣恐怖的流行病疫苗是20世紀公眾健康其中一個很大的成就自從有了可飲用的水對降低死亡率有很大的幫助甚至比抗生素還大疲苗杜絕地球上很多可怕的疾病例如天花更成功大大地降低因其他疾病造成的死亡率，例如麻疹百日咳、小兒麻痺，還有更多以上所有疾病都被視為疫苗可預防疾病這是甚麼意思呢？即是它們是可預防的但要預防，必需做一點東西你需要接種疫苗我經常想，如果今天我們都不在這兒在我們人生中某個時候接種疫苗現在，我不確定我們當中多少人知道長大成人後應該接受哪上疫苗或增壓劑你有沒有曾經想過當我們接種疫苗時我們正在保護誰？我究竟想帶出甚麼意思？除了保護我們自身有沒有帶來其他影響？讓我告訴你一些事試想像現在這一刻我們身處在一個城市裡那裡從沒有發生任何一種疾病譬如麻疹即是說在城市裡無一曾經和疾病扯上關係無一擁有天然防禦力能或者曾接種疫苗對抗麻疹假若有一天，這個城市出現麻疹有一個人染了病這個疾病的抗性不高它會開始人傳人而且很快就會廣泛地傳播到整個社區在一段時間之後很大部分的人都會染病這種情形是發生在還沒有疫苗的時候現在，想像一下完全相反的情況我們身處在一個城市那兒有超過9成人口對麻疹是有防禦能力的意思即是要不他們是曾經患有麻疹，幸而存活有了自然的抵抗力要不就是他們本身就已經對麻疹免疫假如有一天城裡有一個人罹患麻疹疾病的抗性較高不會那麼容易在人與人之間傳播病情就可以受到控制麻疹的爆發亦不會發生我想請你們注意一點已接種疫苗的人不單止保障了他們自身更加阻止了疾病在社區內散播他們間接保障了社區裡的未接種疫苗人他們創造了一個保護屏障來避免疾病闖進接觸到人們因此那些人受到保障這一種由已接種疫苗的人包圍群體內未接種的人令他們簡單地得到的間接保護叫群體免疫有很多在社群裡的人幾乎只靠這種群體免疫來對抗疾病你見到圖像裡未接種疫苗的人不只是個假設那些人是我們的姪女姪兒、我們的孩子他們都可能因為年紀太小而不能接受首次疫苗注射那些人或會是我們的父母、兄弟姊妹我們認識的人卻患有疾病或者接受了藥劑反而會減低他們的防禦能力此外還有一些對於某種疫苗會過敏的人甚至在我們當中有些人注射了疫苗但是疫苗達不到預期的效果因為不是所有疫苗都百分之百有效這些人全部都幾乎只靠群體免疫來對抗疾病要實現群體免疫的效用必需要很大的人口比例接種疫苗這個比例叫作閾值數閾值數取決於很多變數取決於種的特性和疫苗產生的免疫反應但他們都有一個共通點那就是，如果已接種疫苗社區的人口比例低於這個閾值數疾病會更自由無礙地擴散可能會導致該社區爆發疫症即使之前已受控的疾病都可能再出現這個不止是理論是有發生過，而且仍然在發生在1998年，一個英國研究者於其中一本很重要的醫學期刊中刊登了一篇論文當中提及專門預防麻疹、腮腺炎及風疹的麻腮風三聯疫苗跟自閉症有關這產生了即時性的影響人們開始停止接種疫苗，更不讓他們的孩子接種疫苗然後結果呢？全世界很多國家接種疫苗的人數下跌至低於閾值數世界各國 — 美國、歐洲都爆發麻疹很多人患病很多人死於麻疹之後怎樣呢？那篇論文在醫學界亦牽起了巨大的轟動許多研究人員開始著手評估這是否屬實不單沒有一個找到麻腮風三聯疫苗與人口水平上自閉症的因果關係更加發現那篇論文存在不實的言論更甚的是，它是騙人的是欺詐的事實上，在2010年該期刊公開聲明收回那篇論文其中一個主要的顧慮和不接種疫苗的藉口是不利的影響疫苗，就像其他藥物可以帶來潛在的反面影響多數是溫和及短暫的但益處一般都比可能存在的併發症多當我們患病，一定要盡快醫治許多人當被感染到傳染病時會服食抗生素當高血壓時服用降壓藥有時候服食心臟藥為甚麼呢？因為我們生病，需要盡快治理我們不會對此存疑那為甚麼當我們健康的時候將預防疾病當作是照顧自己一樣就變得這麼困難呢？在我們患病時或者在危難迫近眉睫的情形時我們懂得好好照顧自己我想在座各位很多都記得2009年在阿根廷及世界各地爆發的流感大流行當時第一批感染個案曝光時我們在阿根廷正在步入冬季當時我們一無所知簡直是一團糟街上的人們都戴上口罩走到藥房購買酒精液人們在藥房外排隊等候疫苗他們甚至不知道那疫苗是否合適是否能夠保護他們對抗新病毒我們完全是一無所知當時，我除了處理我在嬰幼兒基金會研究金的審查我還在一間預付醫藥公司當家庭兒科醫生我記得當時從早上8時當值至晚上8時已經有50個預定探訪的名單那時一片混亂；大家都不知道怎麼辦我還記得我很留意為哪些類型的病人作檢查那些病人比我們往常在冬季見到的年紀大一點發燒的時間較長一點我向我研究金的導師提及這一點他亦從他的同事聽聞過相同的情況大量孕婦及年輕成人正在深切治療部留醫他們的臨床資料被歸類為複雜個案在那時候，我們著手瞭解究竟發生甚麼事在星期一早上我們駕車到布宜諾斯艾利斯省的一家醫院那兒被劃為新型流感病毒個案的轉診醫院我們到達醫院的時候，那兒很擁擠所有醫護人員都穿上像美國太空總署的生物安全服我們全部在衣袋裡都有面罩我猶如一個疑病症患者，兩小時都不能呼吸可是我們目睹這是甚麼一回事我們立即開始聯絡位於城市及布宜諾斯艾利斯省一共六間醫院的兒科醫生我們的主要目的是在最短到時間內找出這種新病毒在接觸小孩時有甚麼表現是一場馬拉松式的工作在三個月內我們見到新型H1N1病毒在251個因該病毒而留醫的小朋友身上產生甚麼影響我們見到哪些小孩會病得較重：四歲以下，尤其少於一歲的小朋友；有神經疾病的患者；與及患上慢性肺部疾病的小朋友識別這些高危人士很重要可以將他們囊括在建議優先取得流感疫苗的一群裡不單只在阿根廷在其它流感大流行尚未出現的國家都一樣一年後對抗流感大流行H1N1病毒的疫苗面世我們想見到會發生甚麼事在一個以保障高危一族為主的大型疫苗接種活動後那些醫院有9成3的高危人士接種疫苗之後他們再沒有需要留醫H1N1流感的單一患者（拍掌）2009年：251宗2010年：0宗接種疫苗是個人責任的表現卻帶來龐大的集體影響假如我一經接種，我不單只保障自己更保障了其他人索爾罹患百日咳索爾還很年幼她不能夠注射首支疫苗來對抗百日咳我仍然在想如果每一個在索爾身邊的人都已經接種了疫苗會有一個怎麼樣的結果
