Talk	en	zh-tw
ron_finley_a_guerilla_gardener_in_south_central_la	"I live in South Central. This is South Central: liquor stores, fast food, vacant lots. So the city planners, they get together and they figure they're going to change the name South Central to make it represent something else, so they change it to South Los Angeles, like this is going to fix what's really going wrong in the city. This is South Los Angeles. (Laughter) Liquor stores, fast food, vacant lots. Just like 26.5 million other Americans, I live in a food desert, South Central Los Angeles, home of the drive-thru and the drive-by. Funny thing is, the drive-thrus are killing more people than the drive-bys. People are dying from curable diseases in South Central Los Angeles. For instance, the obesity rate in my neighborhood is five times higher than, say, Beverly Hills, which is probably eight, 10 miles away. I got tired of seeing this happening. And I was wondering, how would you feel if you had no access to healthy food, if every time you walk out your door you see the ill effects that the present food system has on your neighborhood? I see wheelchairs bought and sold like used cars. I see dialysis centers popping up like Starbucks. And I figured, this has to stop. So I figured that the problem is the solution. Food is the problem and food is the solution. Plus I got tired of driving 45 minutes round trip to get an apple that wasn't impregnated with pesticides. So what I did, I planted a food forest in front of my house. It was on a strip of land that we call a parkway. It's 150 feet by 10 feet. Thing is, it's owned by the city. But you have to maintain it. So I'm like, ""Cool. I can do whatever the hell I want, since it's my responsibility and I gotta maintain it."" And this is how I decided to maintain it. So me and my group, L.A. Green Grounds, we got together and we started planting my food forest, fruit trees, you know, the whole nine, vegetables. What we do, we're a pay-it-forward kind of group, where it's composed of gardeners from all walks of life, from all over the city, and it's completely volunteer, and everything we do is free. And the garden, it was beautiful. And then somebody complained. The city came down on me, and basically gave me a citation saying that I had to remove my garden, which this citation was turning into a warrant. And I'm like, ""Come on, really? A warrant for planting food on a piece of land that you could care less about?"" (Laughter) And I was like, ""Cool. Bring it."" Because this time it wasn't coming up. So L.A. Times got ahold of it. Steve Lopez did a story on it and talked to the councilman, and one of the Green Grounds members, they put up a petition on Change.org, and with 900 signatures, we were a success. We had a victory on our hands. My councilman even called in and said how they endorse and love what we're doing. I mean, come on, why wouldn't they? L.A. leads the United States in vacant lots that the city actually owns. They own 26 square miles of vacant lots. That's 20 Central Parks. That's enough space to plant 725 million tomato plants. Why in the hell would they not okay this? Growing one plant will give you 1,000, 10,000 seeds. When one dollar's worth of green beans will give you 75 dollars' worth of produce. It's my gospel, when I'm telling people, grow your own food. Growing your own food is like printing your own money. (Applause) See, I have a legacy in South Central. I grew up there. I raised my sons there. And I refuse to be a part of this manufactured reality that was manufactured for me by some other people, and I'm manufacturing my own reality. See, I'm an artist. Gardening is my graffiti. I grow my art. Just like a graffiti artist, where they beautify walls, me, I beautify lawns, parkways. I use the garden, the soil, like it's a piece of cloth, and the plants and the trees, that's my embellishment for that cloth. You'd be surprised what the soil could do if you let it be your canvas. You just couldn't imagine how amazing a sunflower is and how it affects people. So what happened? I have witnessed my garden become a tool for the education, a tool for the transformation of my neighborhood. To change the community, you have to change the composition of the soil. We are the soil. You'd be surprised how kids are affected by this. Gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do, especially in the inner city. Plus you get strawberries. (Laughter) I remember this time, there was this mother and a daughter came, it was, like, 10:30 at night, and they were in my yard, and I came out and they looked so ashamed. So I'm like, man, it made me feel bad that they were there, and I told them, you know, you don't have to do this like this. This is on the street for a reason. It made me feel ashamed to see people that were this close to me that were hungry, and this only reinforced why I do this, and people asked me, ""Fin, aren't you afraid people are going to steal your food?"" And I'm like, ""Hell no, I ain't afraid they're gonna steal it. That's why it's on the street. That's the whole idea. I want them to take it, but at the same time, I want them to take back their health."" There's another time when I put a garden in this homeless shelter in downtown Los Angeles. These are the guys, they helped me unload the truck. It was cool, and they just shared the stories about how this affected them and how they used to plant with their mother and their grandmother, and it was just cool to see how this changed them, if it was only for that one moment. So Green Grounds has gone on to plant maybe 20 gardens. We've had, like, 50 people come to our dig-ins and participate, and it's all volunteers. If kids grow kale, kids eat kale. (Laughter) If they grow tomatoes, they eat tomatoes. (Applause) But when none of this is presented to them, if they're not shown how food affects the mind and the body, they blindly eat whatever the hell you put in front of them. I see young people and they want to work, but they're in this thing where they're caught up — I see kids of color and they're just on this track that's designed for them, that leads them to nowhere. So with gardening, I see an opportunity where we can train these kids to take over their communities, to have a sustainable life. And when we do this, who knows? We might produce the next George Washington Carver. but if we don't change the composition of the soil, we will never do this. Now this is one of my plans. This is what I want to do. I want to plant a whole block of gardens where people can share in the food in the same block. I want to take shipping containers and turn them into healthy cafes. Now don't get me wrong. I'm not talking about no free shit, because free is not sustainable. The funny thing about sustainability, you have to sustain it. (Laughter) (Applause) What I'm talking about is putting people to work, and getting kids off the street, and letting them know the joy, the pride and the honor in growing your own food, opening farmer's markets. So what I want to do here, we gotta make this sexy. So I want us all to become ecolutionary renegades, gangstas, gangsta gardeners. We gotta flip the script on what a gangsta is. If you ain't a gardener, you ain't gangsta. Get gangsta with your shovel, okay? And let that be your weapon of choice. (Applause) So basically, if you want to meet with me, you know, if you want to meet, don't call me if you want to sit around in cushy chairs and have meetings where you talk about doing some shit — where you talk about doing some shit. If you want to meet with me, come to the garden with your shovel so we can plant some shit. Peace. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我住在洛杉機中南區。這是中南區：酒鋪、快餐店、廢地。 因此城市規劃師們開會策劃他們想把中南區名改成具有代表性的名字，最後定名為南洛杉磯，好像這將解決該市存在的實質問題。這是南洛杉磯。（笑聲）酒鋪、快餐店、依然是廢地一塊。 正如其他二千六百五十萬美國人一樣我住在一個食品沙漠，洛杉磯中南區，一個充滿得來速和飛車搶劫殺人的地方。有趣的是，死在得來速上的人比飛車被搶的人還多。在洛杉磯中南區很多人死於可治愈的疾病比如，超胖率在我住的地方是其他區如比佛利山莊的五倍，而比佛利山莊離此只有8 到10英里遠。 我厭倦了看到這種現象不斷發生。我在想要是你得不到健康的食物你會作何感想，如果每次你走出家門在你家附近看到的盡是不健康的食品帶來的負面影響。我看到輪椅的買賣如同二手車一般頻繁。我看到洗腎中心開得像星巴克一樣多。我想這必須要停止。我認爲問題其實就解答。食品是問題，那麼食物也就是解決的辦法。而且我也對爲了買一個没有被農藥污染的蘋果必須開45分鐘去買而感到厭煩。 所以我在家門前種滿食物。用來種植的那塊地其實就在大馬路邊。大概 150 x 10 英尺大。這塊地屬於市政府，但必須由市民來維護。因此我想，""太棒了，我可以隨心所欲地做我想做的事，既然是我的責任，我就得好好維護。""那這就是我對維護這塊地的計劃。 我和我的同伴們聚於洛杉磯Green Grounds處，然後我們開始種植食物林和果樹，一共九種蔬菜。我們都是願意付出的一群人，我們是由來自社會各階層的園丁組成的，大家來自城市的各個角落，都是義工，我們所做的一切都是免費的。菜園很美麗。 然而有人去跟市府抱了怨。市政府找到了我，最先是給我一個通知說我必須鏟平我的菜園。接著通知變成禁令。我在想，""這是開玩笑吧？禁止在一塊地上種食物一塊誰沒人在乎的地?""（笑聲）我就想，""好啊，那看看誰怕誰。“因為這個禁令沒有被執行，所以洛杉磯時報的Steve Lopez報道了這件事並找區政府人員，以及一位Green Grounds (種菜義工組織) 成員談，他們起草了一份請願書發到Change.org網站，900人簽了請願書，最後我們贏了。我們打了一場勝仗。我的區官員來訪還說他們多麽的支持以及多麼喜歡我們做的事。我心想沒有理由他們會不喜歡。洛杉磯市府擁有的空地是居美國之首的。他們擁有26平方英里的空地。那跟20個紐約中央公園一樣大。那足夠種植7億2千500萬棵番茄。他們爲什麽會不同意？種一棵蔬菜將產出1千或1萬顆種子。1美元的青豆將產出75美元的收成。在我的佈道中，我呼籲大家種自己食物。種自己食物就像給自己印鈔票。 （掌聲） 你看，我在這中南區留下了建樹。我在這兒長大。我在這養育我的幾個兒子。我拒絕成為被現實擺佈的一部分，這是其他人造成的現實，而我在創造我自己的現實。 你看，我是一名藝術家。園藝是我的塗鴉。我生產我的藝術作品。正如街頭塗鴉藝術家美化牆面，我在美化我的草坪和馬路邊沿。如同在一塊布作畫，我在菜園和土壤種植蔬菜水果樹木，這就是我在那塊布上的點綴。你會對土壤的生產力感到驚訝要是你將它當成你的畫布你無法想像向日葵會是多麼的嬌豔以及它給人們的感染力 接著什麽發生了呢？我見證了我的花園成為一個教育工具一把轉變我街坊的工具。要改變這社區，你必須改變土壤的成份。我們就是土壤。你會驚訝這會如何感染孩子們。園藝是你能做的最具療效和改變力的行動特別是在市中心。另外你還能收成草莓。 （笑聲） 我記得有一次，一對母女在晚上10:30來，她們在我的院子裡找東西吃，我走出來正好看到，他們覺得很慚愧。其實對我來說看到他們在此更讓我感到傷心，我跟他們說你不必偷偷摸摸這樣做。這些食物重在街頭是有其目的的。讓我感到慚愧的是看到有人離我這麽近還在挨餓，這更增強我的行動決心，然而有人問我，""Fin，難道你就不怕人們會來偷你的食物?""我回答說""完全不，我不怕他們來偷。這就是為什麼那些食物種在大街上。根本的用意就在這。我要他們來拿，同時，我也要他們找回他們的健康""。 另外還有一次我在洛杉磯市中心一個遊民之家設了一個菜園。這是那些幫我卸載卡車的人們。這棒極了，他們互相分享彼此經驗關於這事如何影響他們以及他們怎麽和他們的母親和祖母一起種菜的經歷，即使只是那麽短短的一刻，我也很高興看到這個活動如何改變了他們。 因此Ｇreen Grounds已經種了大概20個菜園。我們已經有50個人來一起挖土和參與。大家都是志願者。如果孩子們種芥蘭，就會吃芥蘭。（笑聲）要是他們種番茄，就會吃番茄。（掌聲）然而要是不給他們這些機會，要是没人讓他們知道食物是如何影響身心，他們就盲目地吃你放在他們面前的東西。 我看到那些想工作的年輕人，但他們生活在惡性循環的環境中。我看到這些黑人孩子們生活在這個已經為他們設計好的軌道上，他們没有出路。因此通過園藝，我看到一個希望我們可以訓練這些孩子們來接管他們的社區，經營可持續發展的生活。當我們做了這些，或許我們可能會培養下一個的喬治 · 華盛頓 · 卡佛。但要是我們不改變土壤的成份我們將永遠做不到。 這是我的其中一個計畫。這是我想要做的事。我要在一整個小區建菜園人們可以共同分享本區所產的食物。我想把這些空貨櫃轉變成健康的咖啡屋。別誤解我的意思，我不是在講免費的狗屎觀念，因為免費是無法持續的。關於可持續性發展有趣的是你必須持續地發展它。（笑聲）（掌聲）我的想法是招集一些人來工作，招集那些在街遊蕩的孩子們，讓他們感受種植自己食物的喜悅、自豪和榮譽感，開農夫市場。 所以我想要做的是，我們要這事變成有趣感性。我要我們所有人都成為生態進化的叛徒、黑幫、土匪園丁。我們要重寫黑幫土匪的定義。如果你不是一個園丁，你不是土匪。那麽找帶鐵鍁的土匪，好嗎？選擇鐵鍁當你的武器。 （掌聲） 總得來說，如果你想要與我會面，如果你想要和我見面，如果你只躺在沙發上無所事事或者聚集討論做一些狗屎幫的壞事 — 那麽別打電話給我討論做一些狗屎幫的壞事。如果你想與我會面，那麽就來菜園帶上你的鐵鍁，我們一起種些菜。 和平。謝謝。 （掌聲）謝謝。（掌聲）"
