Talk	en	zh-tw
rory_sutherland_perspective_is_everything	"What you have here is an electronic cigarette. It's something that, since it was invented a year or two ago, has given me untold happiness. (Laughter) A little bit of it, I think, is the nicotine, but there's something much bigger than that; which is, ever since, in the UK, they banned smoking in public places, I've never enjoyed a drinks party ever again. (Laughter) And the reason, I only worked out just the other day, which is: when you go to a drinks party and you stand up and hold a glass of red wine and you talk endlessly to people, you don't actually want to spend all the time talking. It's really, really tiring. Sometimes you just want to stand there silently, alone with your thoughts. Sometimes you just want to stand in the corner and stare out of the window. Now the problem is, when you can't smoke, if you stand and stare out of the window on your own, you're an antisocial, friendless idiot. (Laughter) If you stand and stare out of the window on your own with a cigarette, you're a fucking philosopher. (Laughter) (Applause) So the power of reframing things cannot be overstated. What we have is exactly the same thing, the same activity, but one of them makes you feel great and the other one, with just a small change of posture, makes you feel terrible. And I think one of the problems with classical economics is, it's absolutely preoccupied with reality. And reality isn't a particularly good guide to human happiness. Why, for example, are pensioners much happier than the young unemployed? Both of them, after all, are in exactly the same stage of life. You both have too much time on your hands and not much money. But pensioners are reportedly very, very happy, whereas the unemployed are extraordinarily unhappy and depressed. The reason, I think, is that the pensioners believe they've chosen to be pensioners, whereas the young unemployed feel it's been thrust upon them. In England, the upper-middle classes have actually solved this problem perfectly, because they've re-branded unemployment. If you're an upper-middle-class English person, you call unemployment ""a year off."" (Laughter) And that's because having a son who's unemployed in Manchester is really quite embarrassing. But having a son who's unemployed in Thailand is really viewed as quite an accomplishment. (Laughter) But actually, the power to re-brand things — to understand that our experiences, costs, things don't actually much depend on what they really are, but on how we view them — I genuinely think can't be overstated. There's an experiment I think Daniel Pink refers to, where you put two dogs in a box and the box has an electric floor. Every now and then, an electric shock is applied to the floor, which pains the dogs. The only difference is one of the dogs has a small button in its half of the box. And when it nuzzles the button, the electric shock stops. The other dog doesn't have the button. It's exposed to exactly the same level of pain as the dog in the first box, but it has no control over the circumstances. Generally, the first dog can be relatively content. The second dog lapses into complete depression. The circumstances of our lives may actually matter less to our happiness than the sense of control we feel over our lives. It's an interesting question. We ask the question — the whole debate in the Western world is about the level of taxation. But I think there's another debate to be asked, which is the level of control we have over our tax money, that what costs us 10 pounds in one context can be a curse; what costs us 10 pounds in a different context, we may actually welcome. You know, pay 20,000 pounds in tax toward health, and you're merely feeling a mug. Pay 20,000 pounds to endow a hospital ward, and you're called a philanthropist. I'm probably in the wrong country to talk about willingness to pay tax. (Laughter) So I'll give you one in return: how you frame things really matters. Do you call it ""The bailout of Greece""? Or ""The bailout of a load of stupid banks which lent to Greece""? (Laughter) Because they are actually the same thing. What you call them actually affects how you react to them, viscerally and morally. I think psychological value is great, to be absolutely honest. One of my great friends, a professor called Nick Chater, who's the Professor of Decision Sciences in London, believes we should spend far less time looking into humanity's hidden depths, and spend much more time exploring the hidden shallows. I think that's true, actually. I think impressions have an insane effect on what we think and what we do. But what we don't have is a really good model of human psychology — at least pre-Kahneman, perhaps, we didn't have a really good model of human psychology to put alongside models of engineering, of neoclassical economics. So people who believed in psychological solutions didn't have a model. We didn't have a framework. This is what Warren Buffett's business partner Charlie Munger calls ""a latticework on which to hang your ideas."" Engineers, economists, classical economists all had a very, very robust existing latticework on which practically every idea could be hung. We merely have a collection of random individual insights without an overall model. And what that means is that, in looking at solutions, we've probably given too much priority to what I call technical engineering solutions, Newtonian solutions, and not nearly enough to the psychological ones. You know my example of the Eurostar: six million pounds spent to reduce the journey time between Paris and London by about 40 minutes. For 0.01 percent of this money, you could have put wi-fi on the trains, which wouldn't have reduced the duration of the journey, but would have improved its enjoyment and its usefulness far more. For maybe 10 percent of the money, you could have paid all of the world's top male and female supermodels to walk up and down the train handing out free Château Pétrus to all the passengers. (Laughter) You'd still have five million pounds in change, and people would ask for the trains to be slowed down. (Laughter) Why were we not given the chance to solve that problem psychologically? I think it's because there's an imbalance, an asymmetry in the way we treat creative, emotionally driven psychological ideas versus the way we treat rational, numerical, spreadsheet-driven ideas. If you're a creative person, I think, quite rightly, you have to share all your ideas for approval with people much more rational than you. You have to go in and have a cost-benefit analysis, a feasibility study, an ROI study and so forth. And I think that's probably right. But this does not apply the other way around. People who have an existing framework — an economic framework, an engineering framework — feel that, actually, logic is its own answer. What they don't say is, ""Well, the numbers all seem to add up, but before I present this idea, I'll show it to some really crazy people to see if they can come up with something better."" And so we — artificially, I think — prioritize what I'd call mechanistic ideas over psychological ideas. An example of a great psychological idea: the single best improvement in passenger satisfaction on the London Underground, per pound spent, came when they didn't add any extra trains, nor change the frequency of the trains; they put dot matrix display boards on the platforms — because the nature of a wait is not just dependent on its numerical quality, its duration, but on the level of uncertainty you experience during that wait. Waiting seven minutes for a train with a countdown clock is less frustrating and irritating than waiting four minutes, knuckle biting, going, ""When's this train going to damn well arrive?"" Here's a beautiful example of a psychological solution deployed in Korea. Red traffic lights have a countdown delay. It's proven to reduce the accident rate in experiments. Why? Because road rage, impatience and general irritation are massively reduced when you can actually see the time you have to wait. In China, not really understanding the principle behind this, they applied the same principle to green traffic lights — (Laughter) which isn't a great idea. You're 200 yards away, you realize you've got five seconds to go, you floor it. (Laughter) The Koreans, very assiduously, did test both. The accident rate goes down when you apply this to red traffic lights; it goes up when you apply it to green traffic lights. This is all I'm asking for, really, in human decision making, is the consideration of these three things. I'm not asking for the complete primacy of one over the other. I'm merely saying that when you solve problems, you should look at all three of these equally, and you should seek as far as possible to find solutions which sit in the sweet spot in the middle. If you actually look at a great business, you'll nearly always see all of these three things coming into play. Really successful businesses — Google is a great, great technological success, but it's also based on a very good psychological insight: people believe something that only does one thing is better at that thing than something that does that thing and something else. It's an innate thing called ""goal dilution."" Ayelet Fishbach has written a paper about this. Everybody else at the time of Google, more or less, was trying to be a portal. Yes, there's a search function, but you also have weather, sports scores, bits of news. Google understood that if you're just a search engine, people assume you're a very, very good search engine. All of you know this, actually, from when you go in to buy a television, and in the shabbier end of the row of flat-screen TVs, you can see, are these rather despised things called ""combined TV and DVD players."" And we have no knowledge whatsoever of the quality of those things, but we look at a combined TV and DVD player and we go, ""Uck. It's probably a bit of a crap telly and a bit rubbish as a DVD player."" So we walk out of the shops with one of each. Google is as much a psychological success as it is a technological one. I propose that we can use psychology to solve problems that we didn't even realize were problems at all. This is my suggestion for getting people to finish their course of antibiotics. Don't give them 24 white pills; give them 18 white pills and six blue ones and tell them to take the white pills first, and then take the blue ones. It's called ""chunking."" The likelihood that people will get to the end is much greater when there is a milestone somewhere in the middle. One of the great mistakes, I think, of economics is it fails to understand that what something is — whether it's retirement, unemployment, cost — is a function, not only of its amount, but also its meaning. This is a toll crossing in Britain. Quite often queues happen at the tolls. Sometimes you get very, very severe queues. You could apply the same principle, actually, to the security lanes in airports. What would happen if you could actually pay twice as much money to cross the bridge, but go through a lane that's an express lane? It's not an unreasonable thing to do; it's an economically efficient thing to do. Time means more to some people than others. If you're waiting trying to get to a job interview, you'd patently pay a couple of pounds more to go through the fast lane. If you're on the way to visit your mother-in-law, you'd probably prefer — (Laughter) you'd probably prefer to stay on the left. The only problem is if you introduce this economically efficient solution, people hate it ... because they think you're deliberately creating delays at the bridge in order to maximize your revenue, and, ""Why on earth should I pay to subsidize your incompetence?"" On the other hand, change the frame slightly and create charitable yield management, so the extra money you get goes not to the bridge company, it goes to charity ... and the mental willingness to pay completely changes. You have a relatively economically efficient solution, but one that actually meets with public approval and even a small degree of affection, rather than being seen as bastardy. So where economists make the fundamental mistake is they think that money is money. Actually, my pain experienced in paying five pounds is not just proportionate to the amount, but where I think that money is going. And I think understanding that could revolutionize tax policy. It could revolutionize the public services. It could actually change things quite significantly. [Ludwig Von Mises is my hero.] Here's a guy you all need to study. He's an Austrian School economist who was first active in the first half of the 20th century in Vienna. What was interesting about the Austrian School is they actually grew up alongside Freud. And so they're predominantly interested in psychology. They believed that there was a discipline called praxeology, which is a prior discipline to the study of economics. Praxeology is the study of human choice, action and decision-making. I think they're right. I think the danger we have in today's world is we have the study of economics considers itself to be a prior discipline to the study of human psychology. But as Charlie Munger says, ""If economics isn't behavioral, I don't know what the hell is."" Von Mises, interestingly, believes economics is just a subset of psychology. I think he just refers to economics as ""the study of human praxeology under conditions of scarcity."" But Von Mises, among many other things, I think uses an analogy which is probably the best justification and explanation for the value of marketing, the value of perceived value and the fact that we should treat it as being absolutely equivalent to any other kind of value. We tend to, all of us, even those of us who work in marketing, think of value in two ways: the real value, which is when you make something in a factory or provide a service, and then there's a dubious value, which you create by changing the way people look at things. Von Mises completely rejected this distinction. And he used this following analogy: he referred to strange economists called the French physiocrats, who believed that the only true value was what you extracted from the land. So if you're a shepherd or a quarryman or a farmer, you created true value. If however, you bought some wool from the shepherd and charged a premium for converting it into a hat, you weren't actually creating value, you were exploiting the shepherd. Now, Von Mises said that modern economists make exactly the same mistake with regard to advertising and marketing. He says if you run a restaurant, there is no healthy distinction to be made between the value you create by cooking the food and the value you create by sweeping the floor. One of them creates, perhaps, the primary product — the thing we think we're paying for — the other one creates a context within which we can enjoy and appreciate that product. And the idea that one of them should have priority over the other is fundamentally wrong. Try this quick thought experiment: imagine a restaurant that serves Michelin-starred food, but where the restaurant smells of sewage and there's human feces on the floor. (Laughter) The best thing you can do there to create value is not actually to improve the food still further, it's to get rid of the smell and clean up the floor. And it's vital we understand this. If that seems like a sort of strange, abstruse thing — in the UK, the post office had a 98 percent success rate at delivering first-class mail the next day. They decided this wasn't good enough, and they wanted to get it up to 99. The effort to do that almost broke the organization. If, at the same time, you'd gone and asked people, ""What percentage of first-class mail arrives the next day?"" the average answer, or the modal answer, would have been ""50 to 60 percent."" Now, if your perception is much worse than your reality, what on earth are you doing trying to change the reality? That's like trying to improve the food in a restaurant that stinks. What you need to do is, first of all, tell people that 98 percent of first-class mail gets there the next day. That's pretty good. I would argue, in Britain, there's a much better frame of reference, which is to tell people that more first-class mail arrives the next day in the UK than in Germany, because generally, in Britain, if you want to make us happy about something, just tell us we do it better than the Germans. (Laughter) (Applause) Choose your frame of reference and the perceived value, and therefore, the actual value is completely transformed. It has to be said of the Germans that the Germans and the French are doing a brilliant job of creating a united Europe. The only thing they didn't expect is they're uniting Europe through a shared mild hatred of the French and Germans. But I'm British; that's the way we like it. (Laughter) What you'll also notice is that, in any case, our perception is leaky. We can't tell the difference between the quality of the food and the environment in which we consume it. All of you will have seen this phenomenon if you have your car washed or valeted. When you drive away, your car feels as if it drives better. (Laughter) And the reason for this — unless my car valet mysteriously is changing the oil and performing work which I'm not paying him for and I'm unaware of — is because perception is, in any case, leaky. Analgesics that are branded are more effective at reducing pain than analgesics that are not branded. I don't just mean through reported pain reduction — actual measured pain reduction. And so perception actually is leaky in any case. So if you do something that's perceptually bad in one respect, you can damage the other. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我拿著的是一根電子香煙它自從一兩年前被發明後已帶給我不可言喻的快樂（笑聲）一小部分原因是尼古丁但還有更重要的原因自從英國禁止在公共場所吸煙我就再也沒有享受過酒會了（笑聲）我不久前才總結出個原因就是當你來到一場酒會站在那裡，手拿一杯紅酒口若懸河你可不願意一直講話那太累了有時候你只是想靜靜地站著想點事情有時候你只是想站在角落望著窗外問題來了——當你不能抽煙的時候如果你獨自一人站著並望著窗外你就是個沒朋友的社交白癡（笑聲）如果你獨自站著望向窗外，拿著一根煙你就是個深沉的哲學家（笑聲）（掌聲） 所以說重新定義事物的威力怎麼講都不會太誇大兩個完全一樣的東西、行為其中一種讓你感覺良好而另一種，只要稍作改變就能讓你感覺極差我認為古典經濟學的一個問題在於它過分關注現實但現實並非是通向人類幸福的好指南比如說為什麼領退休金的老人比年輕失業者更快樂？畢竟二者的生活型態完全相同手上有太多時間，卻沒有多少錢可花但是退休老人據稱非常非常快樂而失業者則極度消沉及絕望我認為原因在於，退休老人相信這身份是自己選擇成為的而年輕失業者卻感覺是被迫失業的 在英國，上層的中產階級已完美地解決這個問題他們重新包裝了失業這回事如果你屬於英國的上層中產階級你管失業叫「一年假期」(笑聲)因為你兒子要是在曼徹斯特失了業是一件蠻丟臉的事但如果你兒子是在泰國賦閒則是一項非凡的成就(笑聲)事實上，重新包裝事物的威力是—瞭解到我們的經驗、花費、事物並不太取決於它們自身而是取決於我們如何看待它們我確實相信這威力不容小覷 我記得Daniel Pink提到過一個實驗你把兩隻狗關在箱子裡箱子底部通電不定時的給予電擊讓狗受到痛苦唯一的不同是，其中一隻狗在它那半箱子中有個小按鈕當它用鼻子按那個按鈕電擊就停止了另一隻狗沒有這個按鈕它感受到的電擊痛苦與前一隻狗完全相同但它對局面沒有任何掌控基本上，第一隻狗相對地滿足第二隻狗則陷入深深的絕望 人生境遇對我們幸福的影響力比不上我們對人生的控制感這是個有趣的問題整個西方世界都在爭論稅收水準究竟該怎麼定但我認為另一個爭論應被提出就是我們對稅款的控制程度在某種情況下花的10英鎊可能是個詛咒而在另一種情況下花去的10英鎊可能倍受歡迎你知道，花費2萬英鎊稅金投資健康你會感到自己是個冤大頭但花費2萬英鎊去捐贈一間醫院病房你會被稱作慈善家也許我在這個國家不適合談論納稅的意願（笑聲） 所以作為補償我要講如何對事物定調真的很重要到底要稱作對希臘的緊急金援還是稱作一堆愚蠢的銀行笨到貸款給希臘的緊急援助？因為這兩種說法實際上是同一回事你如何定調一個問題會影響到你心理以及倫理上的反應坦白說我認為心理價值非常重要我有一位很好的朋友Nick Chater教授在倫敦研究決策科學他認為我們應該大大減少探討人性隱藏深度的時間而把更多時間用在探索人性隱藏的膚淺上我深深以為印象能夠強烈地影響我們的所想所為但我們缺乏一個人類心理學的好模型至少可能在卡尼曼之前的年代我們一直都沒有一個比較好的人類心理學模型以與工程學模型和新古典經濟學模型比肩 因此那些相信心理學解釋的人們沒有可用的模型沒有理論框架可用這就是巴菲特的生意夥伴查理‧孟格所稱“一個用來懸掛你想法的格子框架”工程師、經濟學家、古典學派經濟學家都有一個非常強有力的現有理論框架用來準確定位任何一個相關想法心理學卻只有一些隨機的個人見解但缺乏整體的理論框架這就意味當我們尋求解決方案時我們太過側重於工程學方面的、牛頓思維的辦法而對心理學方向的關注遠遠不足 你們都知道我那個關於歐洲之星的例子六百億英鎊花在將巴黎與倫敦之間的車程縮短40分鐘但只要花這筆錢的1%你可以讓列車有WiFi網路這雖然不會縮短旅程的時間但會大大增加旅程的樂趣和用途用這筆錢的10分之1你就能請到全世界的男女超級名模在走道上向所有旅客分發免費的波得路堡葡萄酒你還能剩下50億英鎊旅客還可能會要求列車減速（笑聲） 我們為什麼從未嘗試從心理學的角度來解決問題？我想這是因為我們對待以下兩種思維方式是不平衡、不對稱的一種是創造性的、情緒引導的心理學思維方式另一種理性的、數據的、報表引導的思維方式如果你是一個創造性的人你必須將自己的想法分享給更理性的人，獲得他們的批准你必須給出一個成本收益分析一個可行性研究投資回報率分析之類的東西這也許沒有錯但當情況反過來時卻是行不通的那些已有理論框架經濟學框架、工程學框架認為邏輯是自身的答案他們不會說：“數字看來是沒錯但我要在報告這個想法之前我要去問問那些真正瘋狂的人看他們能不能有更好的想法。”所以我們人為地將機械化思維置於心理學思維之上 這裡有個關於心理學解決方案的絕佳例子：倫敦地鐵花錢在改善乘客滿意度上最好的措施並不是增加列車數量或者改變行班間距而是在月臺上放置了顯示營幕由於等待的特性並不完全取決於等待時間的長度而是取決於你等待時所感受不確定性的程度在計時器的倒計時中等待7分鐘其間的沮喪和煩躁遠低於只等了四分鐘，但咬著手指不斷逼問這該死的車什麼時候才來？ 韓國也有個很棒的心理學解決方案紅燈時有倒數計時這在實驗中被證實能夠降低事故發生率為什麼？因為交通上的憤怒、不耐和焦躁在你能清楚看到剩下的等待時間時被大大降低在中國，不知為何他們在綠燈的時候運用同樣方法（笑聲）這可不是個好主意你離路口還有200碼遠看到綠燈還剩5秒，就直接衝過去（笑聲）韓國人很嚴謹的測試了兩種情況給紅燈倒計時，事故率降低而給綠燈倒計時，事故率則上升 我呼籲人們在做決策時考慮這三個方面（投影：技術、心理、經濟）它們的重要性不分先後我只是希望當你解決問題時同等重要地考慮以下這三個要素你應盡可能地去找尋匯聚三者的完美解決方案 如果你實際去評估一家好公司你幾乎都會看到這三個方面的作為貨真價實的成功企業Google是成功的科技公司但它同時反映出非常好的心理學洞見人們相信專注於一種業務的公司在此種業務上要比多樣化的公司做得更出色這種固有的信念叫做目標稀釋阿耶萊-費斯巴赫寫了一篇關於這件事的論文 Google出現時的其他同業公司都在努力成為入口網站的確，他們有搜索功能但也有天氣預報、體育賽事比分、一點新聞報導Google明白如果你僅僅是一個搜尋引擎人們會假定你是非常好的搜尋引擎你們所有人在買電視的時候都深刻體會到這點在那排平板電視最後的破爛角落裡有一種備受冷落的機器叫電視與DVD組合播放機你對這種東西的品質一無所知但我們眼看這電視與DVD播放器的組合就會觀感很差覺得這可能是爛電視和爛DVD播放機的組合吧所以我們走出商店時會分別買這兩種機器Google在心理學方面的成功和技術上的成功同樣重要 我提議我們可以用心理學來解決那些我們甚至不認為是問題的問題我有個幫助人們完成抗生素療程的建議不要給他們24顆白色藥片給他們18顆白色藥片和6顆藍色藥片告訴他們先吃白的，再吃藍的這叫做組塊化人們堅持到最後的可能性大大增加因為中途有個里程碑 我想經濟學一個顯著的錯誤就是沒有認知到某個事項無論是退休、失業，還是花費都不僅是作用或是數據更具有心理意義 在英國有個收費站通常在收費站都要排隊有時候甚至大排長龍如果你願意，可以採取與機場安檢同樣的方法要是你要繳納兩倍的過橋費才能快速通過那會發生什麼情況？這可不是無理要求而是一個經濟上高效率的做法時間的價值對某些人比其他人更高如果你要去參加求職面試你顯然願意花多幾英鎊走快速通道如果你是要去見岳母你可能更願意走普通車道 實施這項經濟高效措施的唯一麻煩就是人們厭惡它他們會以為你將故意製造橋上的擁堵來增加收入他們會想“為什麼我要掏錢為你的無能買單？”然而，若稍稍改變做法增加所得的慈善管理不讓增收的錢款歸入路橋公司而作慈善用途人們的付款意願將會截然不同你擁有了一個經濟上相對高效的解決方案同時也會被公眾接納甚至還受到一點點的喜愛而不是被視為卑鄙無恥 所以，經濟學家基本上的錯誤在於他們認為錢就是錢實際上我付5英鎊時的痛苦與金額大小沒有直接關係而是在我所認定之錢的用途我相信理解這點將會對稅收政策帶來革命它會對公共服務帶來革命它將會顯著的改變現狀 你們需要這個人研究一下（投影：路德維希‧馮‧米塞斯是我的英雄）他是奧地利學派的一位經濟學家20世紀上半葉在維也納嶄露頭角奧地利學派的特點在於它是與佛洛伊德共同成長的所以他們十分仰賴心理學他們認為有行為學這門學說要高於經濟學行為學研究人類如何選擇、行動和決策我認為他們是對的現今世界的危險在於我們現有的經濟學認為自身比人類心理學更重要但正如查理‧孟格所言：“如果經濟不具備行為學的特質我則不知道它是什麼東西。” 有意思的是，馮‧米塞斯認為經濟學只是心理學的分支他認為經濟學只是“在稀有條件下的人類行為學研究”馮‧米塞斯在諸多貢獻中最重要的是他運用了最佳的類比來說明行銷的價值和感知價值事實上我們應絕對平等的對待感知價值一如其他種類的價值 我們所有人，甚至是從事行銷的人都傾向於把價值分為兩種一種是真實價值就是在工廠製造商品或提供服務另一種是不確定的價值來自於改變人們對事物的觀感馮‧米塞斯完全反對這種分野他用的是以下的類比他提到一個叫做法國重農主義的古怪經濟學派他們相信只有土地的產出物才有真正的價值所以如果你是牧羊人、礦工或農民你才創造真正的價值但如果有人從牧羊人手中買下羊毛做成帽子，賺取更高利潤就不是創造價值而是在剝削牧羊人 馮‧米塞斯提出現代經濟學（與重農主義者）在對待廣告和行銷上犯了一模一樣的錯誤他說，如果你經營一家餐館你沒辦法去嚴格區分烹飪食物所創造的價值和打掃地板的價值前一項創造了主要產品消費者認為花錢購買的是菜肴另一項則創造了環境消費者在這個環境中享用產品若認為一項比另一項更重要是個根本性的錯誤 讓我們來做個快速的思維實驗想像一家餐廳提供米其林星級水準的食物但餐廳裡惡臭彌漫地板上屎尿橫流你在這家餐廳創造價值的最好方法不是去更進一步提升菜餚品質而是去除異味，清潔地板理解這點至關重要 如果這看起來古怪、荒謬英國郵政有98%的成功投遞率讓平信隔天送達他們認為這還不夠好想要把結果提升到99%為了做這樣的事差點毀了整個組織如果你同時去問民眾“平信隔天寄到的比率有多少？”一般典型的回答是50%-60%如果公眾感知遠遠低於實際情況你為什麼還要去改變實際情況？這就像試著在臭餐廳裡提升食物品質你需要做的首先是去告訴民眾平信隔天到達的比率已達到98%這已經很不錯了不過我認為在英國還有更好用的說法就是告訴民眾英國平信的隔日送達率超過德國因為一般來說你如果想要英國人高興就告訴他們我們做得比德國好（笑聲）（鼓掌） 選則你的說法和感知價值事物的真實價值就會完全改變我們得承認德國人與法國人一起讓歐洲團結非常了不起他們唯一沒有料到的是這個團結的歐洲都對法國人和德國人有些輕微憎恨但我是英國人我喜歡這樣的結果 你也要注意我們的感知是有漏洞的我們無法區分食物品質和相應的就餐環境你們應該都觀察到一個現象只要洗過車或讓人泊過車當你開走時，會感覺車子更好開了而這個原因除非是洗車員偷偷地更換了機油或者在我不知情的前提下免費為我的車做了什麼是因為感知總是有漏洞的 有品牌的止痛藥的止痛效果比沒品牌的要好我的論據並不是患者自己說疼痛減輕而是實際測量的疼痛減輕所以說，感知總是有漏洞的如果你做了一件事從某一方面會被感知是壞事另方面也會受到損害非常感謝 （掌聲）
