Talk	en	zh-tw
rose_george_let_s_talk_crap_seriously	"Let's talk dirty. A few years ago, oddly enough, I needed the bathroom, and I found one, a public bathroom, and I went into the stall, and I prepared to do what I'd done most of my life: use the toilet, flush the toilet, forget about the toilet. And for some reason that day, instead, I asked myself a question, and it was, where does this stuff go? And with that question, I found myself plunged into the world of sanitation — there's more coming — (Laughter) — sanitation, toilets and poop, and I have yet to emerge. And that's because it's such an enraging, yet engaging place to be. To go back to that toilet, it wasn't a particularly fancy toilet, it wasn't as nice as this one from the World Toilet Organization. That's the other WTO. (Laughter) But it had a lockable door, it had privacy, it had water, it had soap so I could wash my hands, and I did because I'm a woman, and we do that. (Laughter) (Applause) But that day, when I asked that question, I learned something, and that was that I'd grown up thinking that a toilet like that was my right, when in fact it's a privilege. 2.5 billion people worldwide have no adequate toilet. They don't have a bucket or a box. Forty percent of the world with no adequate toilet. And they have to do what this little boy is doing by the side of the Mumbai Airport expressway, which is called open defecation, or poo-pooing in the open. And he does that every day, and every day, probably, that guy in the picture walks on by, because he sees that little boy, but he doesn't see him. But he should, because the problem with all that poop lying around is that poop carries passengers. Fifty communicable diseases like to travel in human shit. All those things, the eggs, the cysts, the bacteria, the viruses, all those can travel in one gram of human feces. How? Well, that little boy will not have washed his hands. He's barefoot. He'll run back into his house, and he will contaminate his drinking water and his food and his environment with whatever diseases he may be carrying by fecal particles that are on his fingers and feet. In what I call the flushed-and-plumbed world that most of us in this room are lucky to live in, the most common symptoms associated with those diseases, diarrhea, is now a bit of a joke. It's the runs, the Hershey squirts, the squits. Where I come from, we call it Delhi belly, as a legacy of empire. But if you search for a stock photo of diarrhea in a leading photo image agency, this is the picture that you come up with. (Laughter) Still not sure about the bikini. And here's another image of diarrhea. This is Marie Saylee, nine months old. You can't see her, because she's buried under that green grass in a little village in Liberia, because she died in three days from diarrhea — the Hershey squirts, the runs, a joke. And that's her dad. But she wasn't alone that day, because 4,000 other children died of diarrhea, and they do every day. Diarrhea is the second biggest killer of children worldwide, and you've probably been asked to care about things like HIV/AIDS or T.B. or measles, but diarrhea kills more children than all those three things put together. It's a very potent weapon of mass destruction. And the cost to the world is immense: 260 billion dollars lost every year on the losses to poor sanitation. These are cholera beds in Haiti. You'll have heard of cholera, but we don't hear about diarrhea. It gets a fraction of the attention and funding given to any of those other diseases. But we know how to fix this. We know, because in the mid-19th century, wonderful Victorian engineers installed systems of sewers and wastewater treatment and the flush toilet, and disease dropped dramatically. Child mortality dropped by the most it had ever dropped in history. The flush toilet was voted the best medical advance of the last 200 years by the readers of the British Medical Journal, and they were choosing over the Pill, anesthesia, and surgery. It's a wonderful waste disposal device. But I think that it's so good — it doesn't smell, we can put it in our house, we can lock it behind a door — and I think we've locked it out of conversation too. We don't have a neutral word for it. Poop's not particularly adequate. Shit offends people. Feces is too medical. Because I can't explain otherwise, when I look at the figures, what's going on. We know how to solve diarrhea and sanitation, but if you look at the budgets of countries, developing and developed, you'll think there's something wrong with the math, because you'll expect absurdities like Pakistan spending 47 times more on its military than it does on water and sanitation, even though 150,000 children die of diarrhea in Pakistan every year. But then you look at that already minuscule water and sanitation budget, and 75 to 90 percent of it will go on clean water supply, which is great; we all need water. No one's going to refuse clean water. But the humble latrine, or flush toilet, reduces disease by twice as much as just putting in clean water. Think about it. That little boy who's running back into his house, he may have a nice, clean fresh water supply, but he's got dirty hands that he's going to contaminate his water supply with. And I think that the real waste of human waste is that we are wasting it as a resource and as an incredible trigger for development, because these are a few things that toilets and poop itself can do for us. So a toilet can put a girl back in school. Twenty-five percent of girls in India drop out of school because they have no adequate sanitation. They've been used to sitting through lessons for years and years holding it in. We've all done that, but they do it every day, and when they hit puberty and they start menstruating, it just gets too much. And I understand that. Who can blame them? So if you met an educationalist and said, ""I can improve education attendance rates by 25 percent with just one simple thing,"" you'd make a lot of friends in education. That's not the only thing it can do for you. Poop can cook your dinner. It's got nutrients in it. We ingest nutrients. We excrete nutrients as well. We don't keep them all. In Rwanda, they are now getting 75 percent of their cooking fuel in their prison system from the contents of prisoners' bowels. So these are a bunch of inmates in a prison in Butare. They're genocidal inmates, most of them, and they're stirring the contents of their own latrines, because if you put poop in a sealed environment, in a tank, pretty much like a stomach, then, pretty much like a stomach, it gives off gas, and you can cook with it. And you might think it's just good karma to see these guys stirring shit, but it's also good economic sense, because they're saving a million dollars a year. They're cutting down on deforestation, and they've found a fuel supply that is inexhaustible, infinite and free at the point of production. It's not just in the poor world that poop can save lives. Here's a woman who's about to get a dose of the brown stuff in those syringes, which is what you think it is, except not quite, because it's actually donated. There is now a new career path called stool donor. It's like the new sperm donor. Because she has been suffering from a superbug called C. diff, and it's resistant to antibiotics in many cases. She's been suffering for years. She gets a dose of healthy human feces, and the cure rate for this procedure is 94 percent. It's astonishing, but hardly anyone is still doing it. Maybe it's the ick factor. That's okay, because there's a team of research scientists in Canada who have now created a stool sample, a fake stool sample which is called RePOOPulate. So you'd be thinking by now, okay, the solution's simple, we give everyone a toilet. And this is where it gets really interesting, because it's not that simple, because we are not simple. So the really interesting, exciting work — this is the engaging bit — in sanitation is that we need to understand human psychology. We need to understand software as well as just giving someone hardware. They've found in many developing countries that governments have gone in and given out free latrines and gone back a few years later and found that they've got lots of new goat sheds or temples or spare rooms with their owners happily walking past them and going over to the open defecating ground. So the idea is to manipulate human emotion. It's been done for decades. The soap companies did it in the early 20th century. They tried selling soap as healthy. No one bought it. They tried selling it as sexy. Everyone bought it. In India now there's a campaign which persuades young brides not to marry into families that don't have a toilet. It's called ""No Loo, No I Do."" (Laughter) And in case you think that poster's just propaganda, here's Priyanka, 23 years old. I met her last October in India, and she grew up in a conservative environment. She grew up in a rural village in a poor area of India, and she was engaged at 14, and then at 21 or so, she moved into her in-law's house. And she was horrified to get there and find that they didn't have a toilet. She'd grown up with a latrine. It was no big deal, but it was a latrine. And the first night she was there, she was told that at 4 o'clock in the morning — her mother-in-law got her up, told her to go outside and go and do it in the dark in the open. And she was scared. She was scared of drunks hanging around. She was scared of snakes. She was scared of rape. After three days, she did an unthinkable thing. She left. And if you know anything about rural India, you'll know that's an unspeakably courageous thing to do. But not just that. She got her toilet, and now she goes around all the other villages in India persuading other women to do the same thing. It's what I call social contagion, and it's really powerful and really exciting. Another version of this, another village in India near where Priyanka lives is this village, called Lakara, and about a year ago, it had no toilets whatsoever. Kids were dying of diarrhea and cholera. Some visitors came, using various behavioral change tricks like putting out a plate of food and a plate of shit and watching the flies go one to the other. Somehow, people who'd been thinking that what they were doing was not disgusting at all suddenly thought, ""Oops."" Not only that, but they were ingesting their neighbors' shit. That's what really made them change their behavior. So this woman, this boy's mother installed this latrine in a few hours. Her entire life, she'd been using the banana field behind, but she installed the latrine in a few hours. It cost nothing. It's going to save that boy's life. So when I get despondent about the state of sanitation, even though these are pretty exciting times because we've got the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation reinventing the toilet, which is great, we've got Matt Damon going on bathroom strike, which is great for humanity, very bad for his colon. But there are things to worry about. It's the most off-track Millennium Development Goal. It's about 50 or so years off track. We're not going to meet targets, providing people with sanitation at this rate. So when I get sad about sanitation, I think of Japan, because Japan 70 years ago was a nation of people who used pit latrines and wiped with sticks, and now it's a nation of what are called Woshurettos, washlet toilets. They have in-built bidet nozzles for a lovely, hands-free cleaning experience, and they have various other features like a heated seat and an automatic lid-raising device which is known as the ""marriage-saver."" (Laughter) But most importantly, what they have done in Japan, which I find so inspirational, is they've brought the toilet out from behind the locked door. They've made it conversational. People go out and upgrade their toilet. They talk about it. They've sanitized it. I hope that we can do that. It's not a difficult thing to do. All we really need to do is look at this issue as the urgent, shameful issue that it is. And don't think that it's just in the poor world that things are wrong. Our sewers are crumbling. Things are going wrong here too. The solution to all of this is pretty easy. I'm going to make your lives easy this afternoon and just ask you to do one thing, and that's to go out, protest, speak about the unspeakable, and talk shit. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們來說點""髒話""吧幾年前 奇怪的是我需要去上廁所我找到了一間公共廁所我走進廁所間的時候正要準備做我這一生常做的事那就是方便後 沖水 再將一切拋諸腦後不知道什麼原因 那天我反而問了自己一個問題那就是 這些東西會到哪裡？這個問題使我陷入了—一個關於衛生的世界—後面還有呢 —（笑聲）—一個關於衛生、馬桶以及糞便的世界而我至今還未浮上來因為 那是個多麼令人激動又令人著迷的世界 回到馬桶的故事那個馬桶並沒有什麼特別之處也沒有比「世界馬桶組織」的馬桶來的好簡稱也叫WTO的組織 （笑聲）可是它有可鎖的門 有隱私 有水它有肥皂可以讓我洗手而我當然洗了 因為我是女人 我們都會洗 （笑聲）（掌聲） 可是那天 我問了那個問題我學到了件事： 一直以來 在我成長過程中我以為使用馬桶是我的權利可是其實那是一種特權全世界有25億人沒有馬桶他們沒有一個桶子或箱子全世界有百分之四十的人沒有馬桶他們只能像這個小男孩一樣在孟買機場的高速公路邊這被稱為隨地排便或者叫做在戶外上大號他每天都得這樣做每一天 在照片上的男人可能會路過 卻無動於衷因為他雖然看到了小男孩 卻沒有真正看進眼底 可是他應該要的 因為這麼多糞便在地上所帶來的問題就是糞便上載著一些""乘客""50種傳染病喜歡以人的糞便來傳播所有的東西 包括蛋、囊、細菌、病毒 所有這些東西都可以在一公克的人類糞便中傳播怎麼會呢？因為那個男孩不可能洗手他打著赤腳 跑回家去他可能攜帶的疾病會污染周邊的飲用水 、食物以及環境因為他的手指和腳上都有糞便物質在這個我稱為「沖水就了事」的世界我們大部分的人都很幸運可以在這生活這些疾病中最常見的病症—腹瀉 — 現今聽起來是個笑話也稱為拉肚子、拉稀、澇屎在我生長的地方 我們稱它為""德里腹""可是如果你在一家領先的照片圖像公司搜尋腹瀉的照片你會找到的是這張圖片(笑聲)我不太懂為什麼她要穿比基尼這是另外一張關於腹瀉的照片這是瑪麗賽里 九個月大你看不到她 因為她被埋葬在位於利比理亞小村莊的一片青草底下因為她在三天內死於腹瀉—也就是所謂的拉肚子、拉稀我們當笑話來看待的病這是她的父親可那天她並不是唯一的受害者因為還有其他 4,000 位孩童也死於腹瀉每天都如此腹瀉是世界第二大兒童的殺手而你們可能被灌輸要關注的是一些像艾滋病、肺結核 或者麻疹的病可是死於腹瀉的孩童卻超過這其他三個疾病加起來的總數這是一個非常嚴重的高規模毀滅性疾病而世界要對此付出的代價非常龐大每年惡劣衛生狀況帶來的虧損逹2600億元這是位於海地的霍亂專用病床你們可能聽說過霍亂卻沒聽說過腹瀉的問題給予腹瀉的關注與資助只占其他疾病的一小部份 可是我們有解決辦法我們知道，在19世紀中期那些偉大的維多利亞工程師們建造了下水道與廢水處理的系統也建造了沖水馬桶，所以疾病大幅下降當時兒童死亡率下降的幅度是有史以來最大的沖水馬桶被英國醫學雜誌讀者選為兩百年以來最厲害的醫學進展而他們要在藥丸、麻醉 以及 手術裡做選擇這是一個美妙的廢物處理設備 我覺得它真的很棒—不會臭可以把它放在房子裡把它鎖在門後面可是同時我們也把它鎖在談話之外對於糞便 我們沒有中性詞“便便”並不非常適當“屎”又會得罪人“排泄物”又太醫學了 我沒有其他辦法可以解釋當我看到這些數據代表了什麼我們知道要如何解決腹瀉與環境衛生的問題可是如果你們看看這些國家的預算不管是發展中國家還是已發展國家你會覺得哪裏好像算錯了因為你會預期一些荒謬的情況 像是巴基斯坦花在軍事上的錢比花在水源與環境衛生的錢高出47倍儘管每年巴基斯坦會有十五萬位孩童死於腹瀉你再看看 那本來就極其微小的水源與環境衛生預算百分之75到90的預算會花在乾淨的供水系統上這是好事；我們都需要水沒有人會抗拒乾淨的水源可是公共廁所，或者沖水馬桶所減少的疾病是乾淨水源的兩倍想想看那位跑回家的小男孩他可能擁有乾淨的水源可是他的髒手會污染水源 我認為在廢物處理上真正的浪費就是我們浪費掉把它轉化成資源的可能也浪費掉把它轉化成激起巨大發展的可能因為馬桶以及糞便能為我們達成很多事馬桶可以使一個女孩回到學校在印度 百分之25的女孩們放棄就學因為她們沒有適當的衛生設施多年以來 她們已經習慣上課的時候要憋住我們都做過，可是她們每天都如此當她們進入青春期的時候開始有月經對她們來說已經無法承受了我能理解她們 誰能怪她們呢？所以如果你對一個教育學者說“我可以用一個簡單的方法”“將學校出席率提高百分之25”你在教育界就會交到許多朋友 這還不是全部糞便可以使你飽餐一頓糞便裡有營養素我們吃進營養，同時也排出營養我們不會留住所有的營養在盧安達的監獄百分之75的烹飪燃料是來自囚犯腸道中的物質這些犯人被囚禁在位於布塔雷的監獄大部份的犯人都參與了種族滅絕的行動他們在攪拌自己的排泄物如果你把糞便放在密封的環境里，譬如一個儲槽就像胃一樣所以呢 像胃一樣 會有氣體產生而你可以運用氣體來烹飪你可能覺得 這些人現在要攪拌自己的屎是得到應有的報應可這也是符合經濟概念的因為他們一年可以省下一百萬元他們減少了森林砍伐也找到了一種用不完的、無限的、免費生產的燃料來源 糞便並不只在貧窮國家挽救生命這個女人正被注射一劑棕色物體這個物體跟你想的沒錯可並不完全如此 因為它是被捐贈的現在有一個新的職業道路叫做“糞便捐贈者”就像最近流行的的“精液捐贈者”因為她被一種超級病毒感染叫做艱難酸菌此病菌很多時候都對抗生素有抗藥性她患病已經多年了她只要一劑健康的人類糞便這個程序的治癒率是百分之九十四效果令人訝異可是接受此程序的人寥寥無幾可能覺得噁心吧不過沒關係，因為加拿大有一組研究科學家已經做出糞便的樣本—一個假的糞便樣本 叫做 RePOOPulate 你現在可能在想 好吧 解決辦法很簡單我們給大家一個馬桶就好了這就是有趣的地方因為事情並不簡單，我們也沒那麼簡單所以真正有趣又令人興奮的工作 —公共衛生的工作裡迷人的地方就是我們需要了解人類心理學我們需要了解""軟體""也要了解直接給予""硬體""的問題我們發現 很多發展中國家的政府都有給予免費的公共廁所可是幾年後卻發現那裡多出了新的羊棚、神殿或空房建築的主人還開開心心的路過那裡走到開放排便地去上廁所 所以我們的主要理念是要操縱人們的情緒此方法已經使用了好幾十年 在二十世紀初的時候一些肥皂公司用過這個方法他們試過用健康的角度推銷肥皂 但沒人要買他們試過用性感的角度推銷肥皂 所有人都買了目前在印度有一項活動勸導准新娘們不要嫁入沒有馬桶的家庭此運動叫做 ""沒馬桶，我就不願意""(笑聲)假使你以為這個海報只是一個宣傳手段這位是普蘭卡，23歲去年十月 我在印度認識她她成長於一個保守的環境一個位於印度極為貧困的農村地區她14歲時訂婚，而在21歲左右她住進了婆家到了那裡 她震驚的發現他們竟然沒有馬桶她的成長時一直都有公共廁所這沒什麼大不了可是我們是在講廁所的問題在那裡的第一天晚上 他們告訴她凌晨四點的時候婆婆就會叫她起床 讓她出去摸黑在戶外上廁所她非常害怕怕有醉漢會在外面遊蕩她也怕蛇也害怕被強姦三天後 她做出無法想像的事她離開了如果你對印度農村有任何的了解那就會知道她做的事需要多大的勇氣不止如此她有了自己的馬桶，還旅行到其他印度農村勸導其他女人也做同樣的事我稱這個現象為""社會傳染力"" 極為強大的力量也使人非常興奮 另外一個例子，在另一個位於印度的鄉村跟普蘭卡住的地方也很近此鄉村叫樂卡拉，一年前左右這地方完全沒有馬桶許多孩童死於腹瀉和霍亂有些人來到這運用各種不同改變行為的技巧像是把一盤食物與一盤屎放在外面讓村民看到蒼蠅飛來飛去的情況莫名其妙的，那些本來覺得自己做的事並不噁心的人們頓時領悟，“慘了”也想到他們還間接吃進了鄰居的屎這才是真正讓他們改變行為的原因所以有個女人，就是這位男孩的母親幾個小時內就安裝了廁所她一生都在後面的香蕉園裡大小便可她卻在幾個小時內安裝了廁所這不需花錢，也會拯救這位男孩的生命 所以當我對環境衛生的現狀感到沮喪雖然也有令人興奮的時候因為我們有比爾與梅琳達蓋茲基金會他們徹底改造馬桶，這非常好我們還有麥特戴蒙拒上廁所的抗議這對全人類是件好事對他的腸胃卻不太好可是也有我們要擔心的事這是目前最偏離軌道的千禧年發展目標此目標落後了差不多50年之久我們不會達到預期目標在這個情況下提供人們衛生設備所以當我對環境衛生感到憂心我會想到日本，因為70年前日本是一個使用坑式廁所的國家他們用樹枝擦屁股現在日本是個我們稱之為“衛洗麗”的國家也就是所謂的免治馬桶它們有內裝式的淨身噴嘴讓你無需用手就可以享受到美好的清潔體驗同時也有其他不同的特點像是加熱座椅以及自動提高馬桶蓋裝置也被稱之為“婚姻的救世主”（笑聲） 可最重要的，我覺得他們在日本做的非常勵志的一點是他們把馬桶的議題從鎖上的門中帶了出來他們將馬桶加入談話裡人們會去升級改良自己的馬桶他們會去談論馬桶將此類的議題變得正常我希望我們也可以這樣這並不是困難的事我們真正需要做的就是看待這個議題為一個非常急迫以及可恥的問題而不要認為只有貧窮的國家才有問題我們的污水系統搖搖欲墜在這裏 事情正朝著不好的方向發展解決方法其實非常簡單今天下午 我就不為難你們了我只要求你們做一件事那就是走出去，去抗議講出那些說不出口的事也講些""髒話"" 謝謝 （掌聲）"
