Talk	en	zh-tw
russell_foster_why_do_we_sleep	"What I'd like to do today is talk about one of my favorite subjects, and that is the neuroscience of sleep. Now, there is a sound — (Alarm clock) Ah, it worked! A sound that is desperately familiar to most of us, and of course it's the sound of the alarm clock. And what that truly ghastly, awful sound does is stop the single most important behavioral experience that we have, and that's sleep. If you're an average sort of person, 36 percent of your life will be spent asleep, which means that if you live to 90, then 32 years will have been spent entirely asleep. Now what that 32 years is telling us is that sleep at some level is important. And yet, for most of us, we don't give sleep a second thought. We throw it away. We really just don't think about sleep. And so what I'd like to do today is change your views, change your ideas and your thoughts about sleep. And the journey that I want to take you on, we need to start by going back in time. ""Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber."" Any ideas who said that? Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. Yes, let me give you a few more quotes. ""O sleep, O gentle sleep, nature's soft nurse, how have I frighted thee?"" Shakespeare again, from — I won't say it — the Scottish play. (Laughter) From the same time: ""Sleep is the golden chain that ties health and our bodies together."" Extremely prophetic, by Thomas Dekker, another Elizabethan dramatist. But if we jump forward 400 years, the tone about sleep changes somewhat. This is from Thomas Edison, from the beginning of the 20th century: ""Sleep is a criminal waste of time and a heritage from our cave days."" Bang! (Laughter) And if we also jump into the 1980s, some of you may remember that Margaret Thatcher was reported to have said, ""Sleep is for wimps."" And of course the infamous — what was his name? — the infamous Gordon Gekko from ""Wall Street"" said, ""Money never sleeps."" What do we do in the 20th century about sleep? Well, of course, we use Thomas Edison's light bulb to invade the night, and we occupied the dark, and in the process of this occupation, we've treated sleep as an illness, almost. We've treated it as an enemy. At most now, I suppose, we tolerate the need for sleep, and at worst perhaps many of us think of sleep as an illness that needs some sort of a cure. And our ignorance about sleep is really quite profound. Why is it? Why do we abandon sleep in our thoughts? Well, it's because you don't do anything much while you're asleep, it seems. You don't eat. You don't drink. And you don't have sex. Well, most of us anyway. And so, therefore it's — Sorry. It's a complete waste of time, right? Wrong. Actually, sleep is an incredibly important part of our biology, and neuroscientists are beginning to explain why it's so very important. So let's move to the brain. Now, here we have a brain. This is donated by a social scientist, and they said they didn't know what it was or indeed, how to use it, so — (Laughter) Sorry. So I borrowed it. I don't think they noticed. OK. (Laughter) The point I'm trying to make is that when you're asleep, this thing doesn't shut down. In fact, some areas of the brain are actually more active during the sleep state than during the wake state. The other thing that's really important about sleep is that it doesn't arise from a single structure within the brain, but is to some extent a network property. If we flip the brain on its back — I love this little bit of spinal cord here — this bit here is the hypothalamus, and right under there is a whole raft of interesting structures, not least the biological clock. The biological clock tells us when it's good to be up, when it's good to be asleep, and what that structure does is interact with a whole raft of other areas within the hypothalamus, the lateral hypothalamus, the ventrolateral preoptic nuclei. All of those combine, and they send projections down to the brain stem here. The brain stem then projects forward and bathes the cortex, this wonderfully wrinkly bit over here, with neurotransmitters that keep us awake and essentially provide us with our consciousness. So sleep arises from a whole raft of different interactions within the brain, and essentially, sleep is turned on and off as a result of a range of interactions in here. OK. So where have we got to? We've said that sleep is complicated and it takes 32 years of our life. But what I haven't explained is what sleep is about. So why do we sleep? And it won't surprise any of you that, of course, as scientists, we don't have a consensus. There are dozens of different ideas about why we sleep, and I'm going to outline three of those. The first is sort of the restoration idea, and it's somewhat intuitive. Essentially, all the stuff we've burned up during the day, we restore, we replace, we rebuild during the night. And indeed, as an explanation, it goes back to Aristotle, so that's what — 2,300 years ago. It's gone in and out of fashion. It's fashionable at the moment because what's been shown is that within the brain, a whole raft of genes have been shown to be turned on only during sleep, and those genes are associated with restoration and metabolic pathways. So there's good evidence for the whole restoration hypothesis. What about energy conservation? Again, perhaps intuitive. You essentially sleep to save calories. Now, when you do the sums, though, it doesn't really pan out. If you compare an individual who has slept at night, or stayed awake and hasn't moved very much, the energy saving of sleeping is about 110 calories a night. Now, that's the equivalent of a hot dog bun. Now, I would say that a hot dog bun is kind of a meager return for such a complicated and demanding behavior as sleep. So I'm less convinced by the energy conservation idea. But the third idea I'm quite attracted to, which is brain processing and memory consolidation. What we know is that, if after you've tried to learn a task, and you sleep-deprive individuals, the ability to learn that task is smashed. It's really hugely attenuated. So sleep and memory consolidation is also very important. However, it's not just the laying down of memory and recalling it. What's turned out to be really exciting is that our ability to come up with novel solutions to complex problems is hugely enhanced by a night of sleep. In fact, it's been estimated to give us a threefold advantage. Sleeping at night enhances our creativity. And what seems to be going on is that, in the brain, those neural connections that are important, those synaptic connections that are important, are linked and strengthened, while those that are less important tend to fade away and be less important. OK. So we've had three explanations for why we might sleep, and I think the important thing to realize is that the details will vary, and it's probable we sleep for multiple different reasons. But sleep is not an indulgence. It's not some sort of thing that we can take on board rather casually. I think that sleep was once likened to an upgrade from economy to business class, you know, the equivalent of. It's not even an upgrade from economy to first class. The critical thing to realize is that if you don't sleep, you don't fly. Essentially, you never get there. And what's extraordinary about much of our society these days is that we are desperately sleep-deprived. So let's now look at sleep deprivation. Huge sectors of society are sleep-deprived, and let's look at our sleep-o-meter. So in the 1950s, good data suggests that most of us were getting around eight hours of sleep a night. Nowadays, we sleep one and a half to two hours less every night, so we're in the six-and-a-half-hours every-night league. For teenagers, it's worse, much worse. They need nine hours for full brain performance, and many of them, on a school night, are only getting five hours of sleep. It's simply not enough. If we think about other sectors of society — the aged; if you are aged, then your ability to sleep in a single block is somewhat disrupted, and many sleep, again, less than five hours a night. Shift work. Shift work is extraordinary, perhaps 20 percent of the working population, and the body clock does not shift to the demands of working at night. It's locked onto the same light-dark cycle as the rest of us. So when the poor old shift worker is going home to try and sleep during the day, desperately tired, the body clock is saying, ""Wake up. This is the time to be awake."" So the quality of sleep that you get as a night shift worker is usually very poor, again in that sort of five-hour region. And then, of course, tens of millions of people suffer from jet lag. So who here has jet lag? Well, my goodness gracious. Well, thank you very much indeed for not falling asleep, because that's what your brain is craving. One of the things that the brain does is indulge in micro-sleeps, this involuntary falling asleep, and you have essentially no control over it. Now, micro-sleeps can be sort of somewhat embarrassing, but they can also be deadly. It's been estimated that 31 percent of drivers will fall asleep at the wheel at least once in their life, and in the US, the statistics are pretty good: 100,000 accidents on the freeway have been associated with tiredness, loss of vigilance, and falling asleep — a hundred thousand a year. It's extraordinary. At another level of terror, we dip into the tragic accidents at Chernobyl and indeed the space shuttle Challenger, which was so tragically lost. And in the investigations that followed those disasters, poor judgment as a result of extended shift work and loss of vigilance and tiredness was attributed to a big chunk of those disasters. When you're tired and you lack sleep, you have poor memory, you have poor creativity, you have increased impulsiveness, and you have overall poor judgment. But my friends, it's so much worse than that. (Laughter) If you are a tired brain, the brain is craving things to wake it up. So drugs, stimulants. Caffeine represents the stimulant of choice across much of the Western world. Much of the day is fueled by caffeine, and if you're a really naughty tired brain, nicotine. Of course, you're fueling the waking state with these stimulants, and then, of course, it gets to 11 o'clock at night, and the brain says to itself, ""Actually, I need to be asleep fairly shortly. What do we do about that when I'm feeling completely wired?"" Well, of course, you then resort to alcohol. Now alcohol, short-term, you know, once or twice, to use to mildly sedate you, can be very useful. It can actually ease the sleep transition. But what you must be so aware of is that alcohol doesn't provide sleep. A biological mimic for sleep, it sedates you. So it actually harms some of the neural processing that's going on during memory consolidation and memory recall. So it's a short-term acute measure, but for goodness sake, don't become addicted to alcohol as a way of getting to sleep every night. Another connection between loss of sleep is weight gain. If you sleep around about five hours or less every night, then you have a 50 percent likelihood of being obese. What's the connection here? Well, sleep loss seems to give rise to the release of the hormone ghrelin, the hunger hormone. Ghrelin is released. It gets to the brain. The brain says, ""I need carbohydrates,"" and what it does is seek out carbohydrates and particularly sugars. So there's a link between tiredness and the metabolic predisposition for weight gain: stress. Tired people are massively stressed. And one of the things of stress, of course, is loss of memory, which is what I sort of just then had a little lapse of. But stress is so much more. So, if you're acutely stressed, not a great problem, but it's sustained stress associated with sleep loss that's the problem. Sustained stress leads to suppressed immunity. And so, tired people tend to have higher rates of overall infection, and there's some very good studies showing that shift workers, for example, have higher rates of cancer. Increased levels of stress throw glucose into the circulation. Glucose becomes a dominant part of the vasculature and essentially you become glucose intolerant. Therefore, diabetes 2. Stress increases cardiovascular disease as a result of raising blood pressure. So there's a whole raft of things associated with sleep loss that are more than just a mildly impaired brain, which is where I think most people think that sleep loss resides. So at this point in the talk, this is a nice time to think, ""Well, do you think on the whole I'm getting enough sleep?"" So a quick show of hands. Who feels that they're getting enough sleep here? Oh. Well, that's pretty impressive. Good. We'll talk more about that later, about what are your tips. So most of us, of course, ask the question, ""How do I know whether I'm getting enough sleep?"" Well, it's not rocket science. If you need an alarm clock to get you out of bed in the morning, if you are taking a long time to get up, if you need lots of stimulants, if you're grumpy, if you're irritable, if you're told by your work colleagues that you're looking tired and irritable, chances are you are sleep-deprived. Listen to them. Listen to yourself. What do you do? Well — and this is slightly offensive — sleep for dummies. (Laughter) Make your bedroom a haven for sleep. The first critical thing is make it as dark as you possibly can, and also make it slightly cool. Very important. Actually, reduce your amount of light exposure at least half an hour before you go to bed. Light increases levels of alertness and will delay sleep. What's the last thing that most of us do before we go to bed? We stand in a massively lit bathroom, looking into the mirror cleaning our teeth. It's the worst thing we can possibly do before we go to sleep. Turn off those mobile phones. Turn off those computers. Turn off all of those things that are also going to excite the brain. Try not to drink caffeine too late in the day, ideally not after lunch. Now, we've set about reducing light exposure before you go to bed, but light exposure in the morning is very good at setting the biological clock to the light-dark cycle. So seek out morning light. Basically, listen to yourself. Wind down. Do those sorts of things that you know are going to ease you off into the honey-heavy dew of slumber. OK. That's some facts. What about some myths? Teenagers are lazy. No. Poor things. They have a biological predisposition to go to bed late and get up late, so give them a break. We need eight hours of sleep a night. That's an average. Some people need more. Some people need less. And what you need to do is listen to your body. Do you need that much or do you need more? Simple as that. Old people need less sleep. Not true. The sleep demands of the aged do not go down. Essentially, sleep fragments and becomes less robust, but sleep requirements do not go down. And the fourth myth is early to bed, early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. Well, that's wrong at so many different levels. (Laughter) There is no evidence that getting up early and going to bed early gives you more wealth at all. There's no difference in socioeconomic status. In my experience, the only difference between morning people and evening people is that those people that get up in the morning early are just horribly smug. (Laughter) (Applause) OK. So for the last few minutes, what I want to do is change gears and talk about some really new, breaking areas of neuroscience, which is the association between mental health, mental illness and sleep disruption. We've known for 130 years that in severe mental illness, there is always, always sleep disruption, but it's been largely ignored. In the 1970s, when people started to think about this again, they said, ""Yes, well, of course you have sleep disruption in schizophrenia, because they're on antipsychotics. It's the antipsychotics causing the sleep problems,"" ignoring the fact that for a hundred years previously, sleep disruption had been reported before antipsychotics. So what's going on? Several groups are studying conditions like depression, schizophrenia and bipolar and what's going on in terms of sleep disruption. We have a big study which we published last year on schizophrenia, and the data were quite extraordinary. In those individuals with schizophrenia, much of the time, they were awake during the night phase and then they were asleep during the day. Other groups showed no 24-hour patterns whatsoever — their sleep was absolutely smashed. And some had no ability to regulate their sleep by the light-dark cycle. They were getting up later and later and later and later each night. It was smashed. So what's going on? And the really exciting news is that mental illness and sleep are not simply associated, but they are physically linked within the brain. The neural networks that predispose you to normal sleep, give you normal sleep, and those that give you normal mental health, are overlapping. And what's the evidence for that? Well, genes that have been shown to be very important in the generation of normal sleep, when mutated, when changed, also predispose individuals to mental health problems. And last year, we published a study which showed that a gene that's been linked to schizophrenia, when mutated, also smashes the sleep. So we have evidence of a genuine mechanistic overlap between these two important systems. Other work flowed from these studies. The first was that sleep disruption actually precedes certain types of mental illness, and we've shown that in those young individuals who are at high risk of developing bipolar disorder, they already have a sleep abnormality prior to any clinical diagnosis of bipolar. The other bit of data was that sleep disruption may actually exacerbate, make worse, the mental illness state. My colleague Dan Freeman has used a range of agents which have stabilized sleep and reduced levels of paranoia in those individuals by 50 percent. So what have we got? We've got, in these connections, some really exciting things. In terms of the neuroscience, by understanding these two systems, we're really beginning to understand how both sleep and mental illness are generated and regulated within the brain. The second area is that if we can use sleep and sleep disruption as an early warning signal, then we have the chance of going in. If we know these individuals are vulnerable, early intervention then becomes possible. And the third, which I think is the most exciting, is that we can think of the sleep centers within the brain as a new therapeutic target. Stabilize sleep in those individuals who are vulnerable, we can certainly make them healthier, but also alleviate some of the appalling symptoms of mental illness. So let me just finish. What I started by saying is: Take sleep seriously. Our attitudes toward sleep are so very different from a pre-industrial age, when we were almost wrapped in a duvet. We used to understand intuitively the importance of sleep. And this isn't some sort of crystal-waving nonsense. This is a pragmatic response to good health. If you have good sleep, it increases your concentration, attention, decision-making, creativity, social skills, health. If you get sleep, it reduces your mood changes, your stress, your levels of anger, your impulsivity, and your tendency to drink and take drugs. And we finished by saying that an understanding of the neuroscience of sleep is really informing the way we think about some of the causes of mental illness, and indeed is providing us new ways to treat these incredibly debilitating conditions. Jim Butcher, the fantasy writer, said, ""Sleep is God. Go worship."" And I can only recommend that you do the same. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)"	我今天所要談的是我最愛的主題之一睡眠的神經科學 你們現在聽這個聲音（鬧鐘聲）啊哈，還可以用我們都熟悉這令人絕望的聲音當然，因為這是鬧鐘的聲音那悲慘又糟糕的聲音所要做的是中斷我們最重要的行為也就是睡眠如果你和一般人一樣一生中有 36% 的時間都花在睡覺上換言之，如果你活到 90 歲有整整 32 年的時間是在睡覺 從這 32 年我們可以看出睡覺有某種程度上的重要性然而，大多數的人都認為睡覺沒什麼就這樣把睡眠浪費掉我們真的沒有思考過睡眠這個行為我今天想做的就是改變你們的觀點改變你們對睡眠的看法、想法我想邀請你們來參與一場旅程我們得先回到過去 「享受沉重而甜蜜的睡眠甘露吧。」知道這是誰說的嗎？莎士比亞的凱薩大帝好，我再多給你們一些引言「噢，睡眠，噢，輕柔的睡眠，大自然的仁慈褓姆我怎麼會害怕你呢？」這也是莎士比亞，但我不說出處出自馬克白（更正：應為亨利四世，第二卷）（笑聲）同個時間「睡眠就像條金鍊子把健康和身體綁在一起。」湯瑪斯．德克說的，非常有遠見也是另一位伊莉莎白時代的劇作家 如果我們再往後 400 年對於睡眠的論點就有些改變這是 20 世紀初，湯瑪斯．愛迪生說的「睡覺簡直就是浪費時間，根本就是原始人留下的遺產。」碰（笑聲）如果我們前往 80 年代在座有些人可能記得 瑪格莉特．柴契爾被報導曾說過：「弱者才需要睡覺。」當然還有聲名狼藉的－名字是什麼來著－來自「華爾街」，聲名狼藉的 高登．蓋科 說過「金錢從不睡覺。」 20 世紀的我們怎麼看待睡覺？當然，我們用愛迪生發明的燈泡來擊退黑暗，佔領了黑暗在這占領的過程中我們幾乎把睡眠當作是種疾病把睡眠當作是敵人我現在敢假設，大多數人都忍住不睡最糟的是，有多數人覺得睡覺是種病需要治療的一種病我們對睡眠的種種無知還真不是蓋的 為什麼會這樣？為什麼不想要睡覺？因為當你睡覺的時候看起來你沒有在做什麼你沒有吃喝沒有發生性行為大多數的人沒有所以睡覺完全是浪費時間，對嗎？錯事實上，睡覺對我們的身體非常重要神經科學家正開始研究它並解釋為什麼睡眠這麼重要從大腦開始吧 這裡有個腦袋這是一個社會科學家捐贈的他們說他們不知道這是什麼或是不知道該怎麼使用（笑聲）不好意思我借了這個腦袋我想他們應該沒發現（笑聲） 重點是，你們在睡覺的時候大腦不會停止運作事實上，有些區塊的活動量還增加了相較於清醒的狀態之下另一件關於睡眠之所以重要的事睡眠並非起於大腦單一組織而是有點像網絡如果把大腦翻到背面我喜歡這一小部分的脊髓這叫做下丘腦下丘腦下方，有一塊很有趣的組織尤其是生理時鐘生理時鐘告訴我們什麼時候該起床什麼時候該睡覺下視丘下方那塊組織所要做的就是和下丘腦內的其他區塊外側下丘，腦側室前視核這些區塊來往這些區塊會發送信號到腦幹腦幹再把信號傳送出去讓腦皮層收到信號就是這塊皺褶很漂亮的區塊神經傳送素會讓我們醒著最重要的就是讓我們有意識所以睡覺是起因於大腦內許多地方的互動更重要的，我們睡覺或不睡覺是因為這一系列的互動 好，我們現在講到哪了？我們說到了睡眠很複雜花了人生中的 32 年我還沒解釋是：為什需要睡眠為什麼要睡覺？科學家對此也沒有一致的答案這也不會令人驚訝有很多不同的想法解釋為什麼要睡覺我摘要其中三點 第一點說的是修復這是有點直觀的假設一天中，我們所消耗的精力我們會在晚上進行修補、替換、重建這種解釋可以追朔到亞里斯多德差不多是 2300 年前這種說法為多數人接受因為在當時人們看到是大腦內的一大堆基因在睡覺時是有在活動這些基因都和修補作用以及新陳代謝有關聯所以有證據支持修補假設 那麼關於儲存精力呢？這也很直觀睡覺重要的就是儲存卡路里不過當你把把數字加一加結果並不令人滿意如果你把一個在晚上睡覺或是熬夜的人這兩種人都並沒有做什麼活動他們一個晚上差不多存了 110 卡路里等同於一個熱狗麵包需要這麼多時間以及步驟的睡眠經過一個晚上之後只有一個熱狗麵包的量這確實有點少所以我比較不相信儲存精力這種說法 吸引我的是第三種說法就是大腦運作以及記憶結合就我們所知，在你嘗試學習某樣事物如果你剝奪自己的睡眠那麼，你學習那樣事物的能力就毀了學習能力大大降低所以睡眠和記憶有重要關連然而，我們並不只是躺下來回想記得的事讓科學家感到驚奇的是我們發現新方法和解決複雜問題的能力會因為睡一覺而大大增強事實上，這帶給我們 3 倍的優勢睡眠讓我們更具創造力看起來我們腦中神經連結會有所改變重要的突觸連結(譯注：突觸負責將訊號傳往下個神經細胞)會被連接和強化而比較不重要的連結會被弱化而顯得更不重要 有三個說法解釋為什麼我們需要睡眠我認為瞭解它們的細節很重要因為我們睡眠可能有很多原因但是睡眠不是浪費也不是我們可以輕忽看待的事我想睡眠可以比喻為從經濟艙升級到商務艙但是還不到頭等艙的等級關鍵在於缺乏睡眠，就沒有飛馳的思緒你也創造不出任何東西但我們現在社會卻希望剝奪睡眠 讓我們來看看被剝奪的睡眠社會中很多人缺乏睡眠看看我們的睡眠計量表在 50 年代，充分的證據顯示大部份人每晚睡 8 小時現在我們相較從前少睡 1.5 到 2 小時我們的睡眠落在每晚 6.5 小時的區間對青少年而言這尤其嚴重他們需要睡 9 個小時以利大腦運作而大多數人在學期間每晚僅睡 5 小時這跟本不夠！讓我們在看看另一群人老人晚上的睡眠常會被打斷成好幾部份他們的睡眠同樣低於每晚 5 小時輪班的人大概佔工作人口的 20 %而生理時鐘不會依據夜班而調整它依據相同的光暗循環所以當可憐的夜班工作者疲憊的回家休息時生理時鐘會說：「醒醒啊！現在是白天！」夜班工作者的睡眠品質通常很差他們一樣被分在睡 5 小時的這群接著是，當然，有上百萬人受時差影響在座有誰是呢？我的天啊！因為你們大腦正渴望睡眠我得感謝你們沒有睡著 另一種大腦會進行或沈迷的是微睡眠這是非自願性的入睡你根本無法控制這種睡眠微睡眠令人尷尬但它們也可能致命大約有 31% 的駕駛至少有一次在駕駛中打瞌睡在美國，統計數據很完整10 萬件高速公路意外和疲勞、鬆懈及打瞌睡有關每年平均 1 萬件！不可思議！在另一個層級的恐怖我們看到在車諾比事件和挑戰者號太空梭的意外都造成悲劇性的損失在事件調查中發現延長工作時數造成鬆懈與疲倦降低判斷力是導致悲劇的主因 所以當你疲倦、缺乏睡眠時你的記憶力和創造力都很差你會變得更衝動而且判斷能力也會下降但是還有比這些更糟的事 （笑聲） 如果大腦疲憊就會需要刺激保持清醒西方社會的選擇以藥物、興奮劑和咖啡因為代表大部份時間可以咖啡提神如果大腦過勞則會選擇尼古丁如果在工作時使用興奮劑提神當然在晚上 11 點時大腦會認為自己不需要睡太多這時如果你真的想睡時你會依靠酒精偶爾或短時間內酒精可以讓你鎮定它可以幫助入眠但是你必須注意的是酒精只能麻醉你在生理上很像入眠，但卻不是事實上，它會損害某些神經活動過程包含記憶的強化或回想所以這是短期有效的方法但看在老天的份上別每晚依靠酒精入睡 增重是另一個缺乏睡眠的後果如果每晚睡 5 小時或更少你會高出 50% 罹患肥胖症為什麼有此關連？睡眠缺乏時可能會提高飢餓素 (ghrelin) 的釋放當飢餓素到達腦部大腦會說：「需要更多碳水化合物」在尋找碳水化合物的過程中主要是尋找糖類這就連接疲倦和代謝失衡所造成的增重 疲倦的人承受著巨大的壓力其中一個壓力的後果就是喪失記憶這就是為什麼我剛剛跳過一小段但壓力影響範圍更大如果你突然間感到壓力，這影響不大但長時間的壓力會造成缺乏睡眠和其他問題長期的壓力會抑制免疫系統所以疲倦的人更容易受到感染有些很好的研究顯示輪班工作者更容易得到癌症壓力會增加血流中的葡萄糖含量當葡萄糖成為血液的重要成份身體對葡萄糖耐受性也會上升造成第二行糖尿病壓力導致血壓升高升高罹患心血管疾病的機率這些都和睡眠不足有關而大部份人對睡眠不足影響的瞭解僅只於大腦功能下降 讓我們想想這個演講的目的你認為自己睡眠充足嗎？很快用舉手調查一下有誰認為自己有睡飽？噢！這真令人印象深刻很好，我們接下來會談到入眠的訣竅 當然，大部份人會問我怎麼知道我睡夠了？嗯，這不是深奧的學問如果你需要鬧鐘較你起床如果你需要花長時間清醒如果你需要興奮劑如果你乖戾易怒如果你會被工作夥伴說你看起來疲憊且煩躁你很有可能睡眠不足聽聽別人，想想自己 你該怎麼辦呢？嗯，這可能有點冒犯白癡睡覺法：將床打造成睡眠天堂第一個關鍵是讓房間盡可能保持黑暗另個重點是，讓它有點平靜事實上，你要在睡前至少半小時前就要減少接受到的光線光線促進警覺，這會延遲睡眠我們上床前最後一件事是？我們站在光線明亮的浴室透過鏡子清潔牙齒這是在睡前最不適合做的事關掉手機和電腦關掉任何會刺激大腦的裝置別太晚喝咖啡理想是午餐後就別喝我們降低睡前接受的光線而早上接受的光線對調整生理時鐘的光暗循環非常有益所以出去迎接晨光基本上，聆聽自我放鬆，想想你知道哪些是可以讓你放輕鬆浸入沉重而甜蜜的睡眠甘露 好，這是一些事實，哪些則是迷思？ 青少年很懶散不，他們的生理傾向晚睡晚起所以就放他們一馬吧 我們每晚需要 8 小時的睡眠這僅是平均有人需要更多，有人可以更少你要做的是聽聽自己的身體睡眠已經足夠，還是需要更多？就這麼簡單 老人需要較少睡眠錯了，睡眠需求不會隨年齡下降是睡眠變成片段，而不如以往健全但是需求並為下降 第四個迷思是早睡早起讓人健康、富有、有智慧嗯，這錯的可離譜了（笑聲）沒有證據顯示早睡早起可以讓你更富有在社會地位上沒有差別依我的經驗早起和晚起人的差別只是那些早起的人會得意的沾沾自喜 （笑聲與掌聲） 好，最後幾分鐘給最後一部份我想要稍作變換談談神經科學領域的新突破這和心智健全有關心理疾病和睡眠干擾130 年來，我們都知道重度心理疾病和睡眠失調有關但卻被大家忽視在 1970 年代人們再度思考這個問題時他們說：「精神分裂症患者睡眠當然會受影響因為他們服用抗精神病的藥物是藥物造成了睡眠問題。」這忽略了近百年的研究報告顯示睡眠失調發生於用藥之前 為什麼會這樣呢？有很多研究像是憂鬱症精神分裂症和躁鬱症和睡眠失調的團隊我們去年有個重大發現發表於 Schizophrenia 期刊上裡面的數據非常漂亮精神分裂症的患者大多會夜間醒來而且會在白天睡著其他團隊研究顯示他們沒有遵守 24 小時的生理週期他們的睡眠完全錯亂有些無法依據光暗週期調整睡眠他們會越來越晚起光暗週期錯亂了 為什麼會這樣呢？而讓人興奮的消息是精神疾病與睡眠不僅只是相關而是在腦部有生理上的連結正常的連結讓你傾向正常睡眠正常的睡眠和幫助心智健全的東西有所重疊有什麼支持證據呢？有些產生正常睡眠非常重要的基因當突變或改變時也會傾向產生精神疾病後來，我們發表一篇研究顯示有個基因和精神分裂症相關當它突變時，會讓睡眠不連續我們有證據顯示兩大系統有著精巧的重疊 其他後續的研究首先，睡眠失調會發生在特定的精神疾病之前我們發現那些躁鬱症高危險群的年輕人他們在診斷出躁鬱症前睡眠就不正常其他數據顯示睡眠失調可能會讓精神疾病加劇我的同事 丹·佛立門 (Dan Freeman) 用一些藥物可以在患者身上穩定睡眠和減輕 50% 妄想症狀 所以我們學到什麼？我們看到了這讓人興奮的關聯在神經科學領域藉由研究這兩大系統我們開始瞭解睡眠和精神疾病是由腦部產生和調控另一方面，如果我們睡覺時睡眠失調是一個警訊我們就有機會介入如果我們知道誰屬於高危險群早期治療就變得可行第三點，是我認為最令人興奮的是我們可以將腦部的睡眠中心當作治療的標的幫助高危險的人穩定睡眠我們可以讓他們更健康也會緩解精神疾病帶來的不適 讓我做個結尾我們開始認真看待睡眠我們對睡眠的態度從工業革命前當我們正和寢具熱戀我們曾本能地重視睡眠這不是什麼無稽之談這是健康的正常反應如果睡得飽，你會更專心更有專著力、決斷力、創造力、社交能力和健康如果睡眠正常會降低情緒起伏、壓力你的憤怒、衝動及酗酒用藥的傾向我們可以這樣總結瞭解睡眠的神經科學正改變我們對於一些精神疾病成因的想法事實上，它提供了我們對這些極端狀況的新治療方法 奇幻作家 吉姆．布契 曾說：「睡眠是神，去崇拜它。」我會建議你們也這樣做 謝謝各位的聆聽 （掌聲）
