Talk	en	zh-tw
ruth_chang_how_to_make_hard_choices	"Think of a hard choice you'll face in the near future. It might be between two careers — artist and accountant — or places to live — the city or the country — or even between two people to marry — you could marry Betty or you could marry Lolita. Or it might be a choice about whether to have children, to have an ailing parent move in with you, to raise your child in a religion that your partner lives by but leaves you cold. Or whether to donate your life savings to charity. Chances are, the hard choice you thought of was something big, something momentous, something that matters to you. Hard choices seem to be occasions for agonizing, hand-wringing, the gnashing of teeth. But I think we've misunderstood hard choices and the role they play in our lives. Understanding hard choices uncovers a hidden power each of us possesses. What makes a choice hard is the way the alternatives relate. In any easy choice, one alternative is better than the other. In a hard choice, one alternative is better in some ways, the other alternative is better in other ways, and neither is better than the other overall. You agonize over whether to stay in your current job in the city or uproot your life for more challenging work in the country, because staying is better in some ways, moving is better in others, and neither is better than the other overall. We shouldn't think that all hard choices are big. Let's say you're deciding what to have for breakfast. You could have high fiber bran cereal or a chocolate donut. Suppose what matters in the choice is tastiness and healthfulness. The cereal is better for you, the donut tastes way better, but neither is better than the other overall, a hard choice. Realizing that small choices can also be hard, may make big hard choices seem less intractable. After all, we manage to figure out what to have for breakfast, so maybe we can figure out whether to stay in the city or uproot for the new job in the country. We also shouldn't think that hard choices are hard because we are stupid. When I graduated from college, I couldn't decide between two careers, philosophy and law. I really loved philosophy. There are amazing things you can learn as a philosopher, and all from the comfort of an armchair. But I came from a modest immigrant family where my idea of luxury was having a pork tongue and jelly sandwich in my school lunchbox, so the thought of spending my whole life sitting around in armchairs just thinking ... Well, that struck me as the height of extravagance and frivolity. So I got out my yellow pad, I drew a line down the middle, and I tried my best to think of the reasons for and against each alternative. I remember thinking to myself, if only I knew what my life in each career would be like. If only God or Netflix would send me a DVD of my two possible future careers, I'd be set. I'd compare them side by side, I'd see that one was better, and the choice would be easy. But I got no DVD, and because I couldn't figure out which was better, I did what many of us do in hard choices: I took the safest option. Fear of being an unemployed philosopher led me to become a lawyer, and as I discovered, lawyering didn't quite fit. It wasn't who I was. So now I'm a philosopher, and I study hard choices, and I can tell you, that fear of the unknown, while a common motivational default in dealing with hard choices, rests on a misconception of them. It's a mistake to think that in hard choices, one alternative really is better than the other, but we're too stupid to know which, and since we don't know which, we might as well take the least risky option. Even taking two alternatives side by side with full information, a choice can still be hard. Hard choices are hard not because of us or our ignorance; they're hard because there is no best option. Now, if there's no best option, if the scales don't tip in favor of one alternative over another, then surely the alternatives must be equally good. So maybe the right thing to say in hard choices is that they're between equally good options. But that can't be right. If alternatives are equally good, you should just flip a coin between them, and it seems a mistake to think, here's how you should decide between careers, places to live, people to marry: Flip a coin. There's another reason for thinking that hard choices aren't choices between equally good options. Suppose you have a choice between two jobs: you could be an investment banker or a graphic artist. There are a variety of things that matter in such a choice, like the excitement of the work, achieving financial security, having time to raise a family, and so on. Maybe the artist's career puts you on the cutting edge of new forms of pictorial expression. Maybe the banking career puts you on the cutting edge of new forms of financial manipulation. (Laughter) Imagine the two jobs however you like, so that neither is better than the other. Now suppose we improve one of them, a bit. Suppose the bank, wooing you, adds 500 dollars a month to your salary. Does the extra money now make the banking job better than the artist one? Not necessarily. A higher salary makes the banking job better than it was before, but it might not be enough to make being a banker better than being an artist. But if an improvement in one of the jobs doesn't make it better than the other, then the two original jobs could not have been equally good. If you start with two things that are equally good, and you improve one of them, it now must be better than the other. That's not the case with options in hard choices. So now we've got a puzzle. We've got two jobs. Neither is better than the other, nor are they equally good. So how are we supposed to choose? Something seems to have gone wrong here. Maybe the choice itself is problematic, and comparison is impossible. But that can't be right. It's not like we're trying to choose between two things that can't be compared. We're weighing the merits of two jobs, after all, not the merits of the number nine and a plate of fried eggs. A comparison of the overall merits of two jobs is something we can make, and one we often do make. I think the puzzle arises because of an unreflective assumption we make about value. We unwittingly assume that values like justice, beauty, kindness, are akin to scientific quantities, like length, mass and weight. Take any comparative question not involving value, such as which of two suitcases is heavier. There are only three possibilities. The weight of one is greater, lesser or equal to the weight of the other. Properties like weight can be represented by real numbers — one, two, three and so on — and there are only three possible comparisons between any two real numbers. One number is greater, lesser, or equal to the other. Not so with values. As post-Enlightenment creatures, we tend to assume that scientific thinking holds the key to everything of importance in our world, but the world of value is different from the world of science. The stuff of the one world can be quantified by real numbers. The stuff of the other world can't. We shouldn't assume that the world of is, of lengths and weights, has the same structure as the world of ought, of what we should do. So if what matters to us — a child's delight, the love you have for your partner — can't be represented by real numbers, then there's no reason to believe that in choice, there are only three possibilities — that one alternative is better, worse or equal to the other. We need to introduce a new, fourth relation beyond being better, worse or equal, that describes what's going on in hard choices. I like to say that the alternatives are ""on a par."" When alternatives are on a par, it may matter very much which you choose, but one alternative isn't better than the other. Rather, the alternatives are in the same neighborhood of value, in the same league of value, while at the same time being very different in kind of value. That's why the choice is hard. Understanding hard choices in this way uncovers something about ourselves we didn't know. Each of us has the power to create reasons. Imagine a world in which every choice you face is an easy choice, that is, there's always a best alternative. If there's a best alternative, then that's the one you should choose, because part of being rational is doing the better thing rather than the worse thing, choosing what you have most reason to choose. In such a world, we'd have most reason to wear black socks instead of pink socks, to eat cereal instead of donuts, to live in the city rather than the country, to marry Betty instead of Lolita. A world full of only easy choices would enslave us to reasons. When you think about it, (Laughter) it's nuts to believe that the reasons given to you dictated that you had most reason to pursue the exact hobbies you do, to live in the exact house you do, to work at the exact job you do. Instead, you faced alternatives that were on a par — hard choices — and you made reasons for yourself to choose that hobby, that house and that job. When alternatives are on a par, the reasons given to us, the ones that determine whether we're making a mistake, are silent as to what to do. It's here, in the space of hard choices, that we get to exercise our normative power — the power to create reasons for yourself, to make yourself into the kind of person for whom country living is preferable to the urban life. When we choose between options that are on a par, we can do something really rather remarkable. We can put our very selves behind an option. Here's where I stand. Here's who I am, I am for banking. I am for chocolate donuts. (Laughter) This response in hard choices is a rational response, but it's not dictated by reasons given to us. Rather, it's supported by reasons created by us. When we create reasons for ourselves to become this kind of person rather than that, we wholeheartedly become the people that we are. You might say that we become the authors of our own lives. So when we face hard choices, we shouldn't beat our head against a wall trying to figure out which alternative is better. There is no best alternative. Instead of looking for reasons out there, we should be looking for reasons in here: Who am I to be? You might decide to be a pink sock-wearing, cereal-loving, country-living banker, and I might decide to be a black sock-wearing, urban, donut-loving artist. What we do in hard choices is very much up to each of us. Now, people who don't exercise their normative powers in hard choices are drifters. We all know people like that. I drifted into being a lawyer. I didn't put my agency behind lawyering. I wasn't for lawyering. Drifters allow the world to write the story of their lives. They let mechanisms of reward and punishment — pats on the head, fear, the easiness of an option — to determine what they do. So the lesson of hard choices: reflect on what you can put your agency behind, on what you can be for, and through hard choices, become that person. Far from being sources of agony and dread, hard choices are precious opportunities for us to celebrate what is special about the human condition, that the reasons that govern our choices as correct or incorrect sometimes run out, and it is here, in the space of hard choices, that we have the power to create reasons for ourselves to become the distinctive people that we are. And that's why hard choices are not a curse but a godsend. Thank you. (Applause)"	想想你在不久的將來要面臨的一個艱難抉擇。可能是糾結於兩種職業：藝術家或會計；或是住在哪：城市還是鄉村；甚至是兩個人中選擇一個結婚，你可以跟貝蒂或是洛麗塔結婚。抑或是決定是否要孩子，是否要年老體弱的父母搬過來住，是否讓你的孩子信奉你配偶的宗教，但其實你並不信奉。或者是否將畢生儲蓄捐於慈善機構。 這些艱難決定很可能是對你來說非常重大的，關乎一切的。需要艱難抉擇的時刻通常非常痛苦，令人絕望，糾結到咬牙切齒。但我認為我們誤解了艱難決定，誤解了它們在生活中的角色。若能理解艱難決定，則我們每個人會釋放出一種潛力。 這種決定之所以艱難，是因為其他選擇的相關性。在簡單的決定中，總是一種選擇比另一種好。而在艱難決定裡，一種選擇在某些方面是好的，另一種選擇在另一些方面是好的，而且這兩種都不可能完勝對方。你極其痛苦地徘徊於繼續留在市區的這份工作，還是去鄉村接受更有挑戰的工作，從而徹底改變你的生活，因為留下了有些好處，離開也有另一些好處，且兩個選擇都無法打敗對方。我們不該認為所有的艱難決定都如此重要。比方說，你正在決定早飯吃什麼。你可以吃高纖穀物麥片或是巧克力甜甜圈。假設這個決定的重要因素包括可口度和健康度。麥片對你身體好，甜甜圈則好吃多了，但沒有一種選擇是百分百更好。這是個艱難決定。如果意識到小的選擇也可能很難決定，則會減小那些重大決定的不確定性。畢竟我們還是能決定早餐吃什麼的，所以或許我們會想明白到底要留在市區還是遷到鄉下新的工作。 我們也不應該覺得艱難抉擇之所以難，是因為我們愚蠢。當我大學畢業時，我無法在兩種事業中作出決定，哲學還是法律。我真的很愛哲學。作為哲學家，你可以學到很多令人驚奇的東西，而且只需要坐在凳子上就好了。但是我來自一個收入平平的移民家庭，我對於奢侈的概念就是能有一個豬舌三明治出現在我午餐盒裡。所以要一輩子坐在冷板凳上思考的想法，其實，對我來說是極其奢侈和輕率的。所以我拿出我的筆記本，在中間劃一條線，我竭盡全力想出每個選擇的利與弊。我當時想要是我能知道選擇某種職業後我的生活會是怎樣，就好了。要是上帝或 Netflix 能送我一張 DVD講述兩種職業生活，我就能決定了。我就能將兩者進行對比，就會看到一種比另一種好，那麼選擇就變簡單了。 但我不會有這種 DVD，而且因為我想不通到底哪種更好，我就像大多數面對艱難抉擇的人一樣：我選擇了最安全的那個。害怕成為哲學家找不到工作，我就成了一名律師。後來逐漸發現，當律師並不合適。這不是真正的我。所以現在我是個哲學家，而且我研究艱難的決定。我可以告訴你，對未知的恐懼雖然是面對艱難抉擇時會出現的自然反應，卻也是種對艱難決定的誤解。在艱難決定中，認為一種選擇比另一種好，是錯誤的。但我們的智商不足以判斷哪個更好，既然不知道哪個更好，則最好選擇風險最小的那個。就算對於兩種選擇你有全面的資訊，對比著看，仍然難做決定。這些選擇之所以難，並非因為我們無知，而因為根本沒有最好的選擇。 那麼，若沒有最好選擇，如果天枰不會傾斜於任何一方，那麼任何替代選項都是一樣好的。所以應該說，在艱難的決定裡所有選項都是一樣的好。這肯定不對。如果選項都差不多好，你就該直接拋硬幣了，連思考都成了錯誤。你於是可以這樣決定事業、住處、婚姻：拋硬幣。說艱難的決定並非是在兩個同樣好的選項中選擇還有另一個原因。 設想你要在兩份工作中做選擇：你可以是投資銀行家，或平面藝術家。這一決定中有眾多重要因素，像工作的興奮度、帶來經濟保障、有時間顧家等等。也許當一名藝術家能讓你接觸最前沿的圖像表達形式。也許當銀行家能讓你接觸最先進的金融操縱形式。無論怎麼想像這兩種職業都無法判斷哪個最好。 現在，我們試著改善一下其中一個。假設某家銀行向你示好，每月提薪500美元。有了每月更多的錢，銀行家的工作是否看起來比藝術家好了？不一定。更高的薪水是讓銀行家的工作變得比原來好了，但不足以讓成為銀行家變得比成為藝術家更好。但是如果對其中一個的改善並沒有讓它比另一個好，那麼兩個工作原本不可能是同樣好。如果有兩件事一開始同樣好，你改善了其中之一，則它必然變得比另一個好。但在艱難抉擇中並非如此。 那麼我們就有個難題了。這有兩份工作，沒有哪個是最好的，也不是同樣好。那該怎樣選擇呢？這裡好像出現了些問題。可能是選擇自身的問題使我們無法比較。但肯定不是這樣。因為我們並不是在兩個不可能比較的選項中選擇。畢竟我們是衡量兩個工作的利弊而不是比較數字 9 和一盤煎蛋的好處。對兩份工作所有優點的比較是我們能做的，也是我們通常所做的。 我認為問題根源於一種對價值的草率的設想。我們不知不覺地認為，像正義、美麗和善良等價值類似於一些科學數量，如長度、品質和重量。試想任何一個無關價值的比較，如，兩個箱子誰重？只有三種可能。其中一個重量大於、小於或等於另一個。像重量之類的性質可由數字表示：1, 2 ,3 ...而且在任何兩個數字間的比較只有三種可能。一個數字大於、小於或等於另一個。但價值不是這樣。作為後啟蒙運動的生物，我們容易去設想科學的思考可以解決世間一切重要之事。但是價值的世界不同於科學世界。後者的世界可以被數字量化，而前者不能。我們不該以為「是與否」、長度和重量的世界與「該或不該」、「該做什麼」的世界有著同種結構。所以，如果重要的因素如，孩子的幸福、對配偶的愛，都不能被數字量化，那麼沒理由相信在選擇中只有三種可能一種選項比另一種好、差或同樣好。我們需要引入第四種關係，除了更好、更差或同樣好以外，它可以描述艱難抉擇的機制。我喜歡說，所有選項都「打成平手」。當選項都打成平手時，選擇哪個就變得很重要，但是並沒有哪個比任何一個好。事實上，這些選項價值都差不多，都在同一價值範疇。但同時它們又具非常不同的價值。這就是選擇為何艱難。 這樣理解了艱難選擇的話，我們會對自己有意外的發現。我們每個人都能創造理由。想像一下在某個世界上，你所面臨的都是簡單的選擇，即，你總會有最好的選項。如果有最佳選項，當然你應該選那個，因為理智就意味著做更好的決定而不是更差的，選擇那個最合理的選項。這樣一個世界裡，我們會有足夠理由穿黑襪子而不是粉紅襪、吃麥片而不吃甜甜圈、住在城裡而非搬到鄉下、跟貝蒂結婚而不是洛麗塔。一個滿是簡單選擇的世界會讓我們成為理由的奴隸。當你這麼一想的話，一切都太瘋狂了：那些現成的理由決定了你有最合理的理由去追求你目前追求的愛好、去住你現在的房子、去做你現在的工作。而現實是，你有很多選項，它們打成平手，很難決定你為自己創造理由去選擇那個愛好、那個房子、那個工作。當選項都打成平手時，我們手上的理由，這些決定我們的選擇錯誤與否的理由，都無法告訴我們該如何做。而就在這個有艱難抉擇的世界，我們能夠鍛煉我們的規範性力量，為我們創造理由、讓自己成為另一種人，那麼相比於城市生活你會更喜歡鄉村生活。 當我們在打成平手的選項中進行選擇時，我們可以做出了不起的事。我們能夠將自我放在一個選項背後。說這就是我的選擇。這就是我，我喜歡銀行業，我喜歡巧克力甜甜圈。在艱難抉擇中，這是一種理性反應，但並非由我們所被給的理由來決定，而是由我們創造的理由來支持。當我們為自己創造理由去成為一種人而非另一種人時，我們徹底成為了真正的自己。你可以說我們成為了自己生命的作者。 所以，當面臨艱難抉擇時，不應該拿腦袋撞牆試圖想出哪種選擇更好。根本沒有最好的選擇。不要從外界尋找理由而是應該從內心尋找理由：我要成為怎樣的我？你或許會決定做個穿粉紅襪子的、愛吃麥片的、熱愛鄉村的銀行家，或是一個穿黑襪子的、住在城市的、熱愛甜甜圈的藝術家。我們在艱難決定時的做法很大程度取決於自己。 那些在艱難抉擇時不去鍛煉規範力量的人都成了漂流族。我們都認識這樣的人。比如我就漂進了法律行業。我並沒有全心投入法律。我不喜歡當律師。漂流者讓世界上的人書寫他們的故事。他們讓獎懲機制——鼓勵、恐懼、某種選擇的簡單性——來決定他們做什麼。所以艱難抉擇中的收穫是反映在你所致力的事物上、你的追求上，而且通過艱難決定，讓自己成為那個人。艱難抉擇不是痛苦和害怕的來源，而是難得的機遇讓我們慶幸人類的狀況是怎樣的特殊，慶幸那些決定我們選擇對錯與否的理由有時會不夠用。也就是在這樣一個有著艱難決定的世界我們有力量去為自己創造理由去成為與眾不同的自己。這就是為何艱難決定並非詛咒，而是福祉。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
