Talk	en	zh-tw
ryan_gravel_how_an_old_loop_of_railroads_is_changing_the_face_of_a_city	"This picture is from my metro card when I spent a year abroad in Paris in college in the mid-'90s. My friend says I look like a French anarchist — (Laughter) But this is still what I see when I look in the mirror in the morning. Within a month of living in Paris, I'd lost 15 pounds and I was in the best shape of my life because I was eating fresh food and I was walking wherever I went. Having grown up in suburban Atlanta, a region built largely by highways and automobiles and with a reputation as a poster child for sprawl, Paris fundamentally changed the way I understood the construction of the world around me, and I got obsessed with the role of infrastructure — that it's not just the way to move people from point A to point B, it's not just the way to convey water or sewage or energy, but it's the foundation for our economy. It's the foundation for our social life and for our culture, and it really matters to the way that we live. When I came home, I was instantly frustrated, stuck in traffic as I crossed the top end of our perimeter highway. Not only was I not moving a muscle, I had no social interaction with the hundreds of thousands of people that were hurtling past me, like me, with their eyes faced forward and their music blaring. I wondered if this was an inevitable outcome, or could we do something about it. Was it possible to transform this condition in Atlanta into the kind of place that I wanted to live in? I went back to grad school in architecture and city planning, developed this interest in infrastructure, and in 1999 came up with an idea for my thesis project: the adaptation of an obsolete loop of old railroad circling downtown as a new infrastructure for urban revitalization. It was just an idea. I never thought we would actually build it. But I went to work at an architecture firm, and eventually talked to my coworkers about it, and they loved the idea. And as we started talking to more people about it, more people wanted to hear about it. In the summer of 2001, we connected with Cathy Woolard, who was soon elected city council president. And we built a citywide vision around this idea: the Atlanta BeltLine, a 22-mile loop of transit and trails and transformation. I was doing two and three meetings a week for two and a half years, and so was Cathy and her staff and a handful of volunteers. Together, we built this amazing movement of people and ideas. It included community advocates who were used to fighting against things, but found the Atlanta BeltLine as something that they could fight for; developers who saw the opportunity to take advantage of a lot of new growth in the city; and dozens of nonprofit partners who saw their mission at least partly accomplished by the shared vision. Now, usually these groups of people aren't at the same table wanting the same outcome. But there we were, and it was kind of weird, but it was really, really powerful. The people of Atlanta fell in love with a vision that was better than what they saw through their car windshields, and the people of Atlanta made it happen, and I guarantee you we would not be building it otherwise. From the beginning, our coalition was diverse. People of all stripes were part of our story. People on the lower end of the economic spectrum loved it, too. They were just afraid they weren't going to be able to be there when it got built, that they'd be priced out. And we've all heard that kind of story before, right? But we promised that the Atlanta BeltLine would be different, and people took ownership of the idea, and they made it better than anything we ever imagined in the beginning, including significant subsidies for housing, new parks, art, an arboretum — a list that continues to grow. And we put in place the organizations and agencies that were required to make it happen. And importantly, it is. Now we're in the early stages of implementation, and it's working. The first mainline section of trail was opened in 2012, and it's already generated over three billion dollars of private-sector investment. But it's not only changing the physical form of the city, it's changing the way we think about the city, and what our expectations are for living there. About a month ago, I had to take my kids with me to the grocery store and they were complaining about it, because they didn't want to get in the car. They were saying, ""Dad, if we have to go, can we at least ride our bikes?"" And I said, ""Of course we can. That's what people in Atlanta do. We ride our bikes to the grocery store."" (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you, yeah. Now, they don't know how ridiculous that is, but I do. And I also understand that their expectations for Atlanta are really powerful. This kind of transformation is exactly like sprawl in the last century, the movement where our investment in highways and automobiles fundamentally changed American life. That wasn't some grand conspiracy. There were conspiracies within it, of course. But it was a cultural momentum. It was millions of people making millions of decisions over an extended period of time, that fundamentally changed not only the way that we build cities, but it changed our expectations for our lives. These changes were the foundations for urban sprawl. We didn't call it sprawl at that time. We called it the future. And it was. And we got all the highways and strip malls and cul-de-sacs we wanted. It was a radical transformation, but it was built by a cultural momentum. So it's important to not separate the physical construction of the places we live from other things that are happening at that time. At that time, in the second half of the last century, science was curing disease and lifting us to the moon, and the sexual revolution was breaking down barriers, and the Civil Rights Movement began its march toward the fulfillment of our nation's promise. Television, entertainment, food, travel, business — everything was changing, and both the public and private sectors were colluding to give us the lives we wanted. The Federal Highway Administration, for example, didn't exist before there were highways. Think about it. (Laughter) Of course, today it's important to understand and acknowledge that those benefits accrued to some groups of people and not to others. It was not an equitable cultural momentum. But when we look today in wonder and disgust, maybe, at the metropolis sprawl before us, we wonder if we're stuck. Are we stuck with the legacy of that inequity? Are we stuck with this dystopian traffic hellscape? Are we stuck with rampant urban displacement, with environmental degradation? Are we stuck with social isolation or political polarization? Are these the inevitable and permanent outcomes? Or are they the result of our collective cultural decisions that we've made for ourselves? And if they are, can't we change them? What I have learned from our experience in Atlanta is not an anomaly. Similar stories are playing out everywhere, where people are reclaiming not only old railroads, but also degraded urban waterways and obsolete roadways, reinventing all of the infrastructure in their lives. Whether here in New York or in Houston or Miami, Detroit, Philadelphia, Seoul, Hong Kong, Singapore, Toronto and Paris, cities big and small all over the world are reclaiming and reinventing this infrastructure for themselves, including the mother of all catalyst infrastructure projects, the Los Angeles River, the revitalization effort for which similarly started as a grassroots movement, has developed into a cultural momentum, and is now in the early stages of being transformed into some kind of life-affirming infrastructure again, this one with trails and parks and fishing and boating and community revitalization, and of course, water quality and flood control. It's already improving the lives of people. It's already changing the way the rest of us think about Los Angeles. This is more than just infrastructure. We're building new lives for ourselves. It's a movement that includes local food, urban agriculture, craft beer, the maker movement, tech and design — all of these things, early indicators of a really radical shift in the way we build cities. We're taking places like this and transforming them into this. And soon this. And this is all exciting and good. We're changing the world for the better. Good for us! And it is awesome — I mean that. But our history of sprawl, and from what we can already see with these catalyst projects today, we know and must remember that big changes like this don't usually benefit everyone. The market forces unleashed by this cultural momentum often include the seemingly unstoppable and inevitable cycle of rising taxes, prices and rents. This is urgent. If we care, we have to stand up and speak out. This should be a call to action, because the answer can't be to not improve communities. The answer can't be to not build parks and transit and grocery stores. The answer can't be to hold communities down just to keep them affordable. But we do have to follow through and address the financial realities that we're facing. This is hard, and it won't happen on its own. We can do it, and I'm committed to this goal in Atlanta, to sticking up again for people who made it possible in the first place. We can't call it a success without them. I certainly can't, because the people I made commitments to all those years weren't abstract populations. They're my friends and neighbors. They're people that I love. So even though it started as my graduate thesis and I'm working hard for 16 years with thousands of people to help make this thing come to life, I know and believe that who the BeltLine is being built for is just as important as whether it's built at all. Not just in Atlanta, but locally and globally, we have to understand this accountability to the people whose lives we are changing, because this is us. We are the lives we're talking about. These places aren't inevitable. The places we live aren't inevitable, and if we want something different, we just need to speak up. We have to ensure that change comes on our terms. And to do that, we have to participate actively in the process of shaping change. Thank you. (Applause)"	這照片是我捷運卡上的照片，當時是 90 年代中期，我在巴黎的大學留學一年。朋友說我看起來像個法國無政府主義者 (笑聲) 但他仍是早晨攬鏡自照時我所看見的自己。住在巴黎的頭一個月我瘦了 15 磅，是一生中身材最好的時候，因為我總是食用新鮮食物，並且到任何地方都安步當車。 我在亞特蘭大的郊區長大，當地主要依汽車和公路而建，是個城市擴張建設的樣板。巴黎徹底改變了我對於周遭建設的認知。從此我迷上了基礎設施的角色 —它不僅被用來把人們從甲地送到乙地，也不只運輸淨水、污水或能源，而是我們經濟的基礎。它是我們社交生活和文化的基礎，與我們的生活方式息息相關。 回到家鄉的那一刻我立即感到沮喪，被堵在環城公路的路口上。我不僅僅沒移動任何一塊肌肉，而且與身旁成千上萬匆匆而過的人們沒任何互動；他們和我一樣，直視著前方，耳中充斥著樂聲。我在想，這是不可避免的結果嗎？還是我們能做些改變呢？有沒有可能把亞特蘭大的環境變成我想居住的那種樣貌呢？ 我回到建築和城市設計研究所，對基礎設施產生了興趣，在 1999 年想好了論文的題目：把環繞市中心的廢舊鐵路改建成復甦城市的新基礎建設。當時那只是個想法。從未想過我們真會實踐它。我任職於一家建築公司，後來和同事談起，他們很喜愛這個想法。我們開始與更多人分享這想法，越來越多的人想瞭解這想法。 在 2001 年夏天，我們與凱西 ･ 伍拉德 取得聯繫，不久後，她被選為市議會議長。我們就此想法建立了全市的願景：一條 22 英里長，用來運輸、通行和轉型的「亞特蘭大環線」。在兩年半的期間裡我每週要開兩三次會，凱西、她的員工和一些志願者也是。我們共同啟動了美妙的人們與想法：包括了原先鼓吹抵制的社區者，如今知道亞特蘭大環線是他們能夠爭取的，見到能從新的城市增長契機中獲利的建商，和數十家非營利性的合作夥伴，他們看到能經由合作共同的願景而達成部分的自身使命。 一般說來，這些人是不會聚集一堂尋求共同結果的。雖然奇怪，但我們聚在一起，力量非常的強大。亞特蘭大人喜愛這願景，勝於他們車窗外看到的景色。亞特蘭大人實現了這願景，若非如此，我們無法建得起來。 從一開始就是多樣化的的合作，來自不同領域的人是我們的成員。經濟上的弱勢者也喜愛這計畫。他們只怕建好的時候太貴了，他們負擔不起。我們都聽說過那樣的事，對吧？但是我們承諾亞特蘭大環線將會不同。人們以貢獻想法為己任，使它遠超出我們最初的想像，包括顯著的住房補貼、新公園、藝術建築、植物園 —表單持續地增長。我們設立了為實現這些的必要組織和機構。重要的是，必須要實現。 我們目前正處於早期建造的階段，進展相當不錯。第一段主線道於 2012 年啟用，來自私營部門的投資已達三十多億美元。不僅改變了城市的外貌，也改變了我們對城市的看法，以及對於居住環境的期待。大約一個月前，我要帶孩子上超市，他們很不情願，因為不想坐車。他們問：「爸爸，若我們必須跟著，讓我們騎自行車去好嗎？」我回答：「當然好啊。我們亞特蘭大人就是騎自行車上超市的。」 （笑聲） （掌聲） 好耶。謝謝。 他們不知道那有多荒謬，而我知道。並且我明白，他們對亞特蘭大的期許是多麼的強而有力。 這樣的轉變與上個世紀的城市擴張相似，當時人們投資於公路和汽車，徹底的改變了美國人的生活。那並非什麼大陰謀。當然，裡頭是有些陰謀。但那是文化的動能。當時在相當長的一段時間裡，數百萬人做出數百萬個決定，不僅徹底改變了我們造鎮的方式，也改變了我們對於生活的期待。這樣的改變是城市擴張的基礎。在當時未被稱為城市擴張，而稱之為「未來」。的確是未來。我們得到高速公路、大型購物商場和死路。 那是翻天覆地的變化，來自於文化的動能。因此，不去區隔我們居住地的硬體建築與其他當時發生的事物極其重要。當時在二十世紀的後半，科學治癒了疾病，把人類送上月球，性別革命突破了原本的障礙，民權運動也正開始向實現國家承諾的方向邁進。電視、娛樂、食物、旅遊和商務全都在變化著，公、私部門串通給予我們所嚮往的生活。例如，美國聯邦公路總署在高速公路出現前並不存在。值得深思啊。 （笑聲） 當然，重要的是今天我們應當理解並認知到有些人獲益，而其他人則否。那個文化動能並不平等。或許我們今天對眼前的城市擴張投以驚訝和厭惡的目光，納悶是否已萬劫不復。我們是否已深陷不平等的遺害中？是否陷入非樂園的交通地獄中？是否嵌在蔓生和移位的城市，以及傾頹的環境中呢？是否陷入了社會孤立，或兩極化的政治裡呢？這些是無可避免的永恆結局嗎？或者，這些是我們自決自造的的共業呢？果真如此，我們能改變現狀嗎？ 我在亞特蘭大學到的經驗並非特例。各地有著相似的故事，人們不僅重新活化舊鐵道、惡化的城市下水道、廢棄的公路，重塑他們生活中的種種基礎設施。無論是在紐約這裡或是休斯頓、邁阿密、底特律、費城、首爾、香港、新加坡、多倫多和巴黎。世界各地大大小小的城市都在為自己糾正並重新設計他們的基礎設施；其中包括了基礎設施的原始建設範例 —洛杉磯河。類似的振興努力始於草根運動，現已發展為文化動能，目前正處於轉型為某種樹立生活基礎設施的早期階段。洛杉磯河這個有著小徑、公園、垂釣、划船、社區振興，當然還包括了改善水質和防洪。它已提高人們的生活水平。也改變了我們這些外人對洛杉磯的認知。 這些遠遠超出了基礎的設施。我們正在為自身建立新的生活。這振興運動包括了本地食品、城市農業、啤酒工藝、製造商動態、科技與設計等等，全都指示著我們正在徹底改變建設城市的方式。我們正把這樣的地方轉變為這樣，不久後將成為這樣。 這令人興奮，很不錯。我們正把世界變好。恭喜我們做得好！我衷心認為太棒了。但是我們擴張城市的歷史，以及今日我們從這類觸媒計畫中學到的，心知肚明我們必須記得，這樣的劇變並非人人得益。文化動能釋出的市場力道通常包括看來擋不住、避免不了稅金、物價和租金的上揚。 這很緊迫。如果在乎，就必須挺身而出，大聲疾呼。應該號召行動，因為不改善社區並非選項。不建造公園、運輸系統和雜貨店並不是解決之道。不能讓社區繼續沒落下去，只為了使它仍然平價、負擔得起。但我們接下來必須面對並解決現實的財務問題。很難，它不會自行轉好。我們做得到。我承諾要在亞特蘭大做到，為支持此計畫的人們挺身而出。沒有他們，就稱不上成功。我當然不以為那樣算成功，因為這些年來我所許諾的對象可不是抽象的人。他們是我的朋友和鄰居。我愛他們。 儘管一開始只是篇研究生論文，過去 16 年來我與幾千人合作，致力於實現它。我明白與相信，為誰而做這環線與為何而做同等的重要。不只是亞特蘭大，而是各地以及全球，我們必須瞭解，為那些生活被我們改變的人負責。因為是我們的，我們討論的正是我們的生活。並非註定變差，我們的居住環境變差並非無可避免。若我們希望有所不同，就必須大聲說出來。必須確保依據我們的條件而改變。為了做得到，我們必須積極參與塑造改變的過程。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
