Talk	en	zh-tw
sally_kohn_let_s_try_emotional_correctness	"So when I do my job, people hate me. In fact, the better I do my job, the more people hate me. And no, I'm not a meter maid, and I'm not an undertaker. I am a progressive, lesbian talking head on Fox News. (Applause) So y'all heard that, right? Just to make sure, right? I am a gay talking head on Fox News. I am going to tell you how I do it, and the most important thing I've learned. So I go on television. I debate people who literally want to obliterate everything I believe in — in some cases, who don't want me and people like me to even exist. It's sort of like Thanksgiving with your conservative uncle on steroids, with a live television audience of millions. It's totally almost just like that. And that's just on air. The hate mail I get is unbelievable. Last week alone, I got 238 pieces of nasty email and more hate tweets than I can even count. I was called an idiot, a traitor, a scourge, a cunt and an ugly man, and that was just in one email. (Laughter) So what have I realized, being on the receiving end of all this ugliness? Well, my biggest takeaway is that for decades, we've been focused on political correctness, but what matters more is emotional correctness. Let me give you a small example. I don't care if you call me a dyke. I really don't. I care about two things. One, I care that you spell it right. (Laughter) (Applause) Just quick refresher, it's D-Y-K-E. You'd totally be surprised. And second, I don't care about the word, I care about how you use it. Are you being friendly? Are you just being naive? Or do you really want to hurt me personally? Emotional correctness is the tone, the feeling, how we say what we say, the respect and compassion we show one another. And what I've realized is that political persuasion doesn't begin with ideas or facts or data. Political persuasion begins with being emotionally correct. So when I first went to go work at Fox News, true confession, I expected there to be marks in the carpet from all the knuckle-dragging. That, by the way, in case you're paying attention, is not emotionally correct. But liberals on my side, we can be self-righteous, we can be condescending, we can be dismissive of anyone who doesn't agree with us. In other words, we can be politically right but emotionally wrong. And incidentally, that means that people don't like us. Right? Now here's the kicker. Conservatives are really nice. I mean, not all of them, and not the ones who send me hate mail, but you would be surprised. Sean Hannity is one of the sweetest guys I've ever met. He spends his free time trying to fix up his staff on blind dates, and I know that if I ever had a problem, he would do anything he could to help. Now, I think Sean Hannity is 99 percent politically wrong, but his emotional correctness is strikingly impressive. And that's why people listen to him. Because you can't get anyone to agree with you if they don't even listen to you first. We spend so much time talking past each other and not enough time talking through our disagreements. And if we can start to find compassion for one another, then we have a shot at building common ground. It actually sounds really hokey to say it standing up here, but when you try to put it in practice, it's really powerful. So someone who says they hate immigrants, I try to imagine how scared they must be that their community is changing from what they've always known. Or someone who says they don't like teachers' unions, I bet they're really devastated to see their kid's school going into the gutter, and they're just looking for someone to blame. Our challenge is to find the compassion for others that we want them to have for us. That is emotional correctness. I'm not saying it's easy. An average of, like, 5.6 times per day I have to stop myself from responding to all of my hate mail with a flurry of vile profanities. This whole finding compassion and common ground with your enemies thing is kind of like a political-spiritual practice for me, and I ain't the Dalai Lama. I'm not perfect, but what I am is optimistic. Because I don't just get hate mail. I get a lot of really nice letters, lots of them. And one of my all-time favorites begins: ""I am not a big fan of your political leanings or your sometimes tortured logic, (Laughter) but I'm a big fan of you as a person."" Now this guy doesn't agree with me — yet. (Laughter) But he's listening — not because of what I said, but because of how I said it. And somehow, even though we've never met, we've managed to form a connection. That's emotional correctness, and that's how we start the conversations that really lead to change. Thank you. (Applause)"	工作上，大家討厭我事實上，我把我的工作做得越好越多的人討厭我我也不是取締違規的女警我也不是殯葬業者我是一個積極進取的女同志常常在Fox News上發表評論(掌聲)你們都聽到了吧? 我只是想確認一下 對吧?我是一個在Fox News常常發表評論的女同志我會告訴大家我怎麼做到的和我所學到最重要的事 所以我上電視我和那些簡直要磨沒我所有堅信的事物，有時，甚至是不希望不喜歡我存在的人辯論那就像是感恩節和你保守的叔叔在爭論外加數十萬的現場電視觀眾就像那個樣子 在剛剛開播的時候我收到的仇視郵件已經讓人難以置信僅僅上週，我收到了238封骯髒的郵件更多的數不清的推特我被稱為傻瓜、叛徒、禍害、騙子、醜惡的人僅僅在一封郵件裡（笑） 所以我意識到作為這些醜惡的最終接受者我最大的收穫在於，幾十年來我們一直關注與政治正確但是真正關鍵的是感情正確 讓我舉一個小例子我不介意你稱呼我女同性戀。我真的不在乎。我在乎兩個事情。其一，我在乎你正確的拼寫了它。（笑）（鼓掌）快速複習，是D-Y-K-E。你會完全吃驚的。其二，我不在乎這個詞，我在乎你怎麼運用它。你是表現友善嗎？你只是天真嗎？亦或，你真的希望傷害我的個人感情？情感正確是那種語氣，感覺，我們如何表達我們的語言我們互相表現的尊敬和同情我發現政治說服力並不起源於想法或事實或數據政治說服力開始於正確的情感 所以，當我第一次在Fox News工作，真心的懺悔我期望地毯上會有暗號在總多環環相扣的圖案裏那，順便說，期望引起你的注意不是感情正確的但是自由主義者是站在我這邊的我們可以自以為是，我們可以自滿我們可以忽略其他不認可我們的人換言之，我們可以是政治正確的但是感情錯誤的順帶的，那意味著人們不喜歡我們。是不是？ 現在，踢場者來了保守主義者真的很友善我的意思是，不是他們的所有人不是發送給我仇恨郵件的人你會驚訝的Sean Hannity是我見過的最貼心的人之一他用他業餘時間嘗試安排相親而且我知道如果我有問題他會盡其所能幫助我現在，我認為Sean Hannity是百分之九十九政治錯誤的但是他的感情正確，讓人印象深刻這就是為甚麼人民聽從他因為你不會讓任何人認可你如果他們事先沒有傾聽你的想法 我們花費了如此多的時間談論過去不足的時間談論我們的分歧如果我們開始尋找相互憐憫我們就能成功建立共識雖然聽起來很做作我只是站在這裡布教但是當你嘗試將它實踐它充滿了力量 所以有人說他憎恨移民們我嘗試想像他們一定有多麼恐懼他們的社區正在改變，早已不是曾經相識的樣子或者，有人說他們不喜歡教師工會我敢說，他們絕對會絕望的看到他們孩子的學校逐漸變成貧民窟他們只是尋找一個可以責怪的人我們的挑戰在於找到對他人的同情心我們同樣渴望從別人得到那就是感情正確 我不是說那很簡單平均大概每天5.6次我不得不停下來回復所有收到的充滿低劣語言的憎惡郵件。所有這些尋找同情與敵人的共識的事情對我像是一種政治精神練習而且我不是Dalai Lama我並不完美，但是我是樂觀的因為我不只收到憎惡郵件我收到了很多極其美好的信，真的很多我一直以來最愛的一封信，這樣說道“我不是你政治學的超級粉絲或者有時你的歪曲邏輯，但是我是你個人的超級粉絲。“雖然這個人現在不贊成我（笑）但是他在傾聽，不是因為我說了什麼而是因為我是如何表達的而且，無論如何，儘管我們從沒相見我們成功的建立了一種聯繫那就是感情正確那就是我們如何開始一種交流引領著變革 謝謝 （鼓掌）
