Talk	en	zh-tw
sally_kohn_don_t_like_clickbait_don_t_click	"So recently, some white guys and some black women swapped Twitter avatars, or pictures online. They didn't change their content, they kept tweeting the same as usual, but suddenly, the white guys noticed they were getting called the n-word all the time and they were getting the worst kind of online abuse, whereas the black women all of a sudden noticed things got a lot more pleasant for them. Now, if you're my five-year-old, your Internet consists mostly of puppies and fairies and occasionally fairies riding puppies. That's a thing. Google it. But the rest of us know that the Internet can be a really ugly place. I'm not talking about the kind of colorful debates that I think are healthy for our democracy. I'm talking about nasty personal attacks. Maybe it's happened to you, but it's at least twice as likely to happen, and be worse, if you're a woman, a person of color, or gay, or more than one at the same time. In fact, just as I was writing this talk, I found a Twitter account called @SallyKohnSucks. The bio says that I'm a ""man-hater and a bull dyke and the only thing I've ever accomplished with my career is spreading my perverse sexuality."" Which, incidentally, is only a third correct. I mean, lies! (Laughter) But seriously, we all say we hate this crap. The question is whether you're willing to make a personal sacrifice to change it. I don't mean giving up the Internet. I mean changing the way you click, because clicking is a public act. It's no longer the case that a few powerful elites control all the media and the rest of us are just passive receivers. Increasingly, we're all the media. I used to think, oh, okay, I get dressed up, I put on a lot of makeup, I go on television, I talk about the news. That is a public act of making media. And then I go home and I browse the web and I'm reading Twitter, and that's a private act of consuming media. I mean, of course it is. I'm in my pajamas. Wrong. Everything we blog, everything we Tweet, and everything we click is a public act of making media. We are the new editors. We decide what gets attention based on what we give our attention to. That's how the media works now. There's all these hidden algorithms that decide what you see more of and what we all see more of based on what you click on, and that in turn shapes our whole culture. Over three out of five Americans think we have a major incivility problem in our country right now, but I'm going to guess that at least three out of five Americans are clicking on the same insult-oriented, rumor-mongering trash that feeds the nastiest impulses in our society. In an increasingly noisy media landscape, the incentive is to make more noise to be heard, and that tyranny of the loud encourages the tyranny of the nasty. It does not have to be that way. It does not. We can change the incentive. For starters, there are two things we can all do. First, don't just stand by the sidelines when you see someone getting hurt. If someone is being abused online, do something. Be a hero. This is your chance. Speak up. Speak out. Be a good person. Drown out the negative with the positive. And second, we've got to stop clicking on the lowest-common-denominator, bottom-feeding linkbait. If you don't like the 24/7 all Kardashian all the time programming, you've got to stop clicking on the stories about Kim Kardashian's sideboob. I know you do it. (Applause) You too, apparently. I mean, really, same example: if you don't like politicians calling each other names, stop clicking on the stories about what one guy in one party called the other guy in the other party. Clicking on a train wreck just pours gasoline on it. It makes it worse, the fire spreads. Our whole culture gets burned. If what gets the most clicks wins, then we have to start shaping the world we want with our clicks, because clicking is a public act. So click responsibly. Thank you. (Applause)"	最近，有些白人男性和黑人女性互相交換推特的大頭貼或照片。但沒交換個人訊息，他們跟平時一樣繼續推文，突然間，白人男性注意到他們不斷收到輕蔑黑人的訊息，遭受到嚴重的網路霸凌，反之，黑人女性突然間在推訊上收到更多友善的回應。 假設你現在5歲，你上網搜尋的內容，通常是小狗以及仙女或許是仙女騎著小狗。對於感興趣的事，上Google搜尋就對了。我們知道網際網路是一個極醜陋的地方。我不是為了健全民主而產生的生動活潑的辯論。我談的是惡意的人身攻擊。或許曾經發生在你身上，但是發生的機率將會是兩倍，也許更糟，如果你是個女性，或是有色人種，亦或是同性戀者，或同時擁有上述一個以上的身份。事實上，當我正在寫這份講稿的時候，我發現在推特上，有個帳號@SallyKohnSucks。說我是一個討厭男人的人及女同性戀者，我的職業生涯只完成了一件事，廣而告之我是一個性取向反常的人。順帶一提，他只說對三分之一。真是胡說八道！（笑聲） 老實說，我們都不喜歡這種廢話，問題是：你是否願意犠牲個人權益去改變它。我不是說非得拒絕上網不可。而是要改變點擊滑鼠的習慣，因為點擊這個動作是公眾行為。不再是讓少數權利分子控制所有媒體而我們只是被動的接受者。隨著網路普及化，我們都是傳播媒介。我常常想，好吧，我盛裝打扮，我化妝，然後上電視談論新聞時事。這是一種傳播新聞的公眾行為。回家後打開瀏覽器我上推特閱讀訊息，這是消費性媒體的私人行為。穿上睡衣睡褲上網，你會認為那是個人行為。大錯特錯。寫部落格，上推特推文，上網瀏覽點擊滑鼠這些都是傳播媒介的公眾行為。我們是新手撰文者。我們會去關注那些會吸引我們注意的事。這是媒體操作的方式。有一個隱藏的規則，那就是你的點擊，會決定你更加關注什麼樣的訊息，及我們更會去瀏覽何種訊息。這逐漸形成我們的上網文化。 有五分之三以上的美國人認為現今，國人無禮行為很嚴重，但是，我猜至少五分之三的美國人上了那些會激怒他人的網站，製造謠言，以滿足私慾，一時衝動的歹念充斥我們的社會。在越來越多惡意中傷他人的媒體環境，有更多的動機去製造話題，專橫無禮的行為浪聲越大又更加助長專橫無禮的情況。 何必要這樣做呢，真的不需要。我們能夠改變動機。我們可以一起做二件事第一是：當你看到他人受到傷害，不要袖手旁觀。如果有人受到網路霸凌，一定要有所作為，那是你成為英雄的機會。大聲說出心中的話，使自己成為一個好人。以正面的心態，將負面的心態逐出網路。第二：我們要停止點擊滑鼠，尤其是大多數人都在瀏覽的網頁訊息，以及令人不恥的點擊誘餌，如果你不喜歡全天候放送有關卡戴珊家族的新聞，你得要停止點擊有關金·卡戴珊的側乳新聞。我知道你會這樣做（掌聲）顯然，你也看了。我來給你舉個類似的例子，如果你不喜歡政治人物相互叫駡，那就不要點擊有關一政黨的政治人物叫駡另一政黨政治人物的新聞。這時點擊它，有如火上加油。只會使情況更糟，怒火燒得更旺。我們的文化也跟著被燒毀。 如果有什麼事，要以點擊率論輸贏，那就是，我們要開始要用點擊的力量去塑造我們想要的世界，因為點擊這個動作是公眾行為。所以要點擊滑鼠以前，請三思。謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
