Talk	en	zh-tw
sandi_toksvig_a_political_party_for_women_s_equality	"I am so excited to be here. Everything in America is so much bigger than in Europe. Look at me — I am huge! (Laughter) It's fantastic! And TED Talks — TED Talks are where everybody has great ideas. So the question is: Where do those great ideas come from? Well, it's a little bit of debate, but it's generally reckoned that the average person — that's me — has about 50,000 thoughts a day. Which is a lot, until you realize that 95 percent of them are the same ones you had the day before. (Laughter) And a lot of mine are really boring, OK? I think things like, ""Oh! I know — I must clean the floor. Oh! I forgot to walk the dog."" My most popular: ""Don't eat that cookie."" (Laughter) So, 95 percent repetition. That leaves us with just a five percent window of opportunity each day to actually think something new. And some of my new thoughts are useless. The other day I was watching some sports on television, and I was trying to decide why I just don't engage with it. Some of it I find curious. This is odd. (Laughter) Do you think it would be worth being that flexible just to be able to see your heel at that angle? (Laughter) And here's the thing: I'm never going to be able to relate to that, because I'm never going to be able to do it, OK? Well, not twice, anyway. (Laughter) But I'll tell you the truth. The truth is I have never been any good at sport, OK? I've reached that wonderful age when all my friends say, ""Oh, I wish I was as fit as I was when I was 18."" And I always feel rather smug then. (Laughter) I'm exactly as fit as I was when I — (Laughter) (Applause) I couldn't run then. I'm certainly not going to do it now. (Laughter) So then I had my new idea: Why not engage people like me in sport? I think what the world needs now is the Olympics for people with zero athletic ability. (Laughter) Oh, it would be so much more fun. We'd have three basic rules, OK? Obviously no drugs; no corruption, no skills. (Laughter) It would be — No, it's a terrible idea. And I also know why I don't engage with sport when I watch it on television. It's because probably 97 percent of it is about men running and men kicking things, men trying to look neatly packaged in Lycra. There is — (Laughter) Not always successfully. There is — (Laughter) There is so little female sport on television, that a young woman watching might be forgiven for thinking, and how can I put this nicely, that the male member is the very lever you need to get yourself off the couch and onto a sports ground. (Laughter) The inequalities in sport are breathtaking. So this is what happens to me: I have a brand new idea, and immediately I come back to an old one. The fact is, there is not now, nor has there ever been in the whole of history, a single country in the world where women have equality with men. Not one. 196 countries, it hasn't happened in the whole of evolution. So, here is a picture of evolution. (Laughter) We women are not even in it! (Laughter) It's a wonder men have been able to evolve quite so brilliantly. So — (Laughter) It bugs me, and I know I should do something about it. But I'm busy, OK? I have a full-on career, I've got three kids, I've got an elderly mom. In fact, if I'm honest with you, one of the reasons I came out here is because TED Talks said I could have 15 minutes to myself, and I never have that much time — (Laughter) (Applause) So I'm busy. And anyway, I already had a go at changing the world. Here's the thing, OK? Everybody has inside themselves what I call an ""activation button."" It's the button that gets pressed when you think, ""I must do something about this."" It gets pressed for all sorts of reasons. Maybe you face some kind of inequality, or you've come across an injustice of some kind, sometimes an illness strikes, or you're born in some way disadvantaged, or perhaps underprivileged. So I was born gay, OK? I've always known, I don't think my family were the least bit surprised. Here is a picture of me aged four. I look cute, but inside I genuinely believed that I looked like Clint Eastwood. (Laughter) So my activation button was pressed when I had my kids — three wonderful kids, born to my then-partner. Now here's the thing: I work on television in Britain. By the time they were born, I was already hosting my own shows and working in the public eye. I love what I do, but I love my kids more. And I didn't want them to grow up with a secret. 1994, when my son, my youngest was born, there was not, as far as I was aware, a single out, gay woman in British public life. I don't think secrets are a good thing. I think they are a cancer of the soul. So I decided to come out. Everybody warned me that I would never work again, but I decided it was absolutely worth the risk. Well, it was hell. In Britain, we have a particularly vicious section of the right-wing press, and they went nuts. And their hatred stirred up the less stable elements of society, and we got death threats — enough death threats that I had to take the kids into hiding, and we had to have police protection. And I promise you there were many moments in the still of the night when I was terrified by what I had done. Eventually the dust settled. Against all expectation I carried on working, and my kids were and continue to be absolutely fantastic. I remember when my son was six, he had a friend over to play. They were in the next room; I could hear them chatting. The friend said to my son, ""What's it like having two mums?"" I was a little anxious to hear, so I leant in to hear and my son said, ""It's fantastic, because if one of them's sick, you've still got another one to cook for you."" (Laughter) So my activation button for gay equality was pressed, and along with many, many others, I campaigned for years for gay rights, and in particular, the right to marry the person that I love. In the end, we succeeded. And in 2014, on the day that the law was changed, I married my wife, who I love very much, indeed. (Applause) We didn't do it in a quiet way — we did it on the stage at the Royal Festival Hall in London. It was a great event. The hall seats two-and-a-half thousand people. We invited 150 family and friends, then I let it be known to the public: anybody who wanted to come and celebrate, please come and join us. It would be free to anybody who wanted to come. Two-and-half thousand people turned up. (Applause) Every kind of person you can imagine: gays, straights, rabbis, nuns, married people, black, white — the whole of humanity was there. And I remember standing on that stage thinking, ""How fantastic. Job done. Love triumphs. Law changed."" And I — (Applause) And I genuinely thought my activation days were over, OK? So every year in that same hall, I host a fantastic concert to celebrate International Women's Day. We gather the world's only all-female orchestra, we play fantastic music by forgotten or overlooked women composers, we have amazing conductors — it's Marin Alsop there from Baltimore conducting, Petula Clark singing — and I give a lecture on women's history. I love to gather inspirational stories from the past and pass them on. Too often, I think history's what I call the Mount Rushmore model. It looks majestic, but the women have been entirely left out of it. And I was giving a talk in 2015 about the suffragettes — I'm sure you know those magnificent women who fought so hard for the right for women in Britain to vote. And their slogan was: ""Deeds, not words."" And boy, they succeeded, because women did indeed get the vote in 1928. So I'm giving this talk about this, and as I'm talking, what I realized is: this was not a history lecture I was giving; this was not something where the job was done. This was something where there was so much left to do. Nowhere in the world, for example, do women have equal representation in positions of power. OK, let's take a very quick look at the top 100 companies in the London Stock Exchange in 2016. Top 100 companies: How many women running them? Seven. OK. Seven. That's all right, I suppose. Until you realize that 17 are run by men called ""John."" (Laughter) There are more men called John running FTSE 100 companies — (Laughter) than there are women. There are 14 run by men called ""Dave."" (Laughter) Now, I'm sure Dave and John are doing a bang-up job. (Laughter) OK. Why does it matter? Well, it's that pesky business of the gender pay gap. Nowhere in the world do women earn the same as men. And that is never going to change unless we have more women at the top in the boardroom. We have plenty of laws; the Equal Pay Act in Britain was passed in 1975. Nevertheless, there are still many, many women who, from early November until the end of the year, by comparison to their male colleagues, are effectively working for free. In fact, the World Economic Forum estimates that women will finally get equal pay in ... 2133! Yay! (Laughter) That's a terrible figure. And here's the thing: the day before I came out to give my talk, the World Economic Forum revised it. So that's good, because that's a terrible — 2133. Do you know what they revised it to? 2186. (Laughter) Yeah, another 53 years, OK? We are not going to get equal pay in my grandchildren's grandchildren's lives under the current system. And I have waited long enough. I've waited long enough in my own business. In 2016 I became the very first woman on British television to host a prime-time panel show. Isn't that great? Wonderful, I'm thrilled. But — (Applause) But 2016! The first! Television's been around for 80 years! (Laughter) It may be television's not so important, but it's kind of symptomatic, isn't it? 2016, the UN were looking for a brand new ambassador to represent women's empowerment and gender equality, and who did they choose? Wonder Woman. Yes, they chose a cartoon, OK? (Laughter) Because no woman was up to the job. The representation of women in positions of power is shockingly low. It's true in Congress, and it's certainly true in the British Parliament. In 2015, the number of men elected to the Parliament that year was greater than the total number of women who have ever been members of Parliament. And why does it matter? Here's the thing: if they're not at the table — literally, in Britain, at that table helping to make the laws — do not be surprised if the female perspective is overlooked. It's a great role model for young people to see a woman in charge. In 2016, Britain got its second female Prime Minister; Theresa May came to power. The day she came to power she was challenged: just do one thing. Do one thing in the first 100 days that you're in office to try and improve lives for women in Britain. And what did she do? Nothing. Nothing. Because she's much too busy cleaning up the mess the boys made. Even having a female leader, they always find something better to do than to sort out the pesky issue of inequality. So I keep talking about equality like it matters. Does it? Well, let's take a very quick look at the STEM industries, OK? So science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Pretty much important in every single aspect of our daily lives. There is the thickest and most incredibly well-documented glass ceiling in the STEM industries. What if the cure for cancer or the answer the global warming lies in the head of a young female scientist who fails to progress? So I thought all these things, and I knew I had to do ""Deeds, not words."" And I spoke to my wonderful friend, brilliant journalist Catherine Mayer in Britain, and we rather foolishly — and I suspect there was wine involved — (Laughter) We decided to found a brand new political party. Because here's the critical thing: the one place women and men are absolutely equal is at the ballot box. We had no idea what we were doing, we didn't know how complicated it was to start a political party. I thought, ""It can't be that difficult, men have been doing it for years."" (Laughter) So we started by calling it ""The Women's Equality Party."" And straightaway people said to me, ""Why did you call it that?"" I said, ""I don't know, I just thought we'd be clear."" (Laughter) I didn't want what we were doing to be a secret, you know? I just — (Laughter) Some people said, ""You can't call it that! It's much too feminist!"" Ooh! Scary word! Ahh! I can't tell you how many times I've heard somebody say, ""I'm not a feminist, but ..."" And I always think if there's a ""but"" in the sentence, it can't all be roses in the garden. And then I started getting asked the hilarious question, ""Are you all going to burn your bras?"" Yes! Because bras are famously made of flammable material. (Laughter) That's why all women spark when they walk. (Laughter) Here's quick history sidebar for you: no woman ever burnt her bra in the '60s. It's a story made up by a journalist. Thank goodness journalism has improved since then. So — (Laughter) I announced what we were going to do in a broadcast interview, and straightaway, the emails started coming. First hundreds, then thousands and thousands, from every age group: from the very young to women in their '90s, to hundreds of wonderful men. People wrote and said, ""Please, can I help? Please, can I visit you at party headquarters?"" We didn't have a headquarters — we didn't have a party! We didn't have anything. All we had was a wonderful, tight group of fabulous friends trying to answer emails pretty much 24-7 in our pajamas. We were all busy. Many of us had careers, many of us had children, but we did what women do, and we shared the work. And almost instantly, we agreed on certain fundamental things. First thing: we want to be the only political party in the world whose main aim was to no longer need to exist. That's a fantastic idea. We wanted to be the only political party with no particular political leaning. We wanted people from the left, from the right, from the middle, every age group. Because the whole point was to work with a simple agenda: let's get equality in every aspect of our lives, and when we're finished, let's go home and get the other chores done. (Laughter) And we wanted to change how politics is conducted. I don't know if you have this, but in Britain we have two major political parties. They're the dinosaurs of politics. And how they speak to each other is shameful and poisonous. I'm sure you've never had that kind of name-calling — (Laughter) And lying here. Wouldn't it be great if just one politician said, ""Do you know, my opponent has a point. Let's see if we can't work together and get the job done."" (Applause) And let's get more women into politics, OK? Let's immediately get more women into politics by being the only political party to offer free childcare to our candidates, so they can get out of the house and start campaigning. (Applause) Within 10 months, we had more than 70 branches of our party across the UK. We stood candidates for election in London, Scotland and Wales in May 2016. One in 20 people voted for our candidate for London Mayor. And when the men in the race saw how many votes we were attracting, wonder of wonders, they began to talk about the need to tackle gender equality. (Applause) You know, I've been promised change since I was a child. It was always coming: women were going to stand shoulder to shoulder with men. All I got were empty promises and disappointment — enough disappointment to found a political party. But here is my new idea for today — this is my five percent, OK? And this one is really good. The fact is, this is not enough. It is not enough to found one political party for equality in a single country. What we need is a seismic change in the global political landscape. And the wonderful thing about the model we have created is that it would work anywhere. It would work in America, it would work in Australia, it would work in India. It's like we've made the perfect recipe: anybody can cook it, and it's good for everybody. And we want to give it away. If you want to know what we did, we're giving it away. Can you imagine if we could mobilize millions of women across the world to say, ""That's enough!"" to the traditional battles of politics? To say, ""Stop the bickering, let's get the work done."" We could literally change the world. And I want that. (Applause) I want ... (Applause) I want that for our daughters, and I want it for our sons. Because the fact is: equality is better for everyone. Come on people, let's activate! Let's change the world! I know we can do it, and it wants doing! (Applause)"	來到這裡讓我覺得很興奮。美國的每一樣東西都比歐洲大得多。你看，我非常大！ （笑聲） 這十分神奇！然後說到 TED Talks — TED Talks是一個大家都有很棒想法的地方。所以，問題是：這些很棒的想法從哪兒來？嗯，這需要一些討論，但是一般估計平常人 —就是說我 —每天都有 50,000 個想法。多麼多呀！直到你發現 95%的想法都和你之前的想法一模一樣。 （笑聲） 我的想法有一堆都超無聊的，好嗎？我思考的事情像是：“喔～我知道—我必須要清地板了。喔！我忘記遛狗了。我最常想到的想法：”不要吃掉那塊餅乾。“ （笑聲） 這樣，有 95% 重複。這讓我們每天只有 5% 的機會能夠真正思考新的東西。而我的一些新想法完全沒有用處。某一天，當我在電視上看比賽的時候，我試圖了解為什麼我就是不能參與其中？其中一些想法我覺得很異常。有點古怪。 （笑聲） 你覺得能夠擁有那樣的柔軟度只為了能用不一樣的角度看到你的腳踝有值得嗎？ （笑聲） 重點是：我永遠都不可能涉及到那些，因為我永遠都做不到那些，好嗎？嗯......至少不能做到兩次以上。 （笑聲） 但是我會告訴你真相。真相是：我對任何一樣運動都不在行，好嗎？我已經到了我的所有朋友說：“噢！我真希望我像18歲的時候一樣苗條。“的美妙年紀。每當我聽到這句話，我會有點沾沾自喜。 （笑聲） 我非常確定我和當年一樣...... （笑聲） （掌聲） 我當時跑不快。我現在當然更是不行。 （笑聲） 所以我有了一個新想法：何不鼓勵像我這樣的人們運動？我覺得這個世界現在需要的是一個給零運動能力人參加的奧林匹克。 （笑聲） 噢，這會非常有趣。我們只要訂下三個基本的規則，好嗎？顯然是：禁止嗑藥、禁止賄賂、沒有任何技能。 （笑聲） 這將會是—不行，這是一個可怕的點子。而且我也知道為什麼我看電視上的轉播，但是不參加那些運動。那是因為大概 97% 的轉播都是關於，男人跑步、男人踢東西、男人試著整齊地穿著萊卡纖維衣物。這...... （笑聲） 並不總是那麼成功就是了。事實上...... （笑聲） 電視上的女性運動節目太少了，一個在看電視的年輕女性可能會想， 我怎麼說比較好呢...男性是那個你最需要的槓桿把你從沙發上跩起來去運動場。 （笑聲）體育運動中的不平等真的非常驚人。 所以對我來說是這樣的：我有一個全新的想法然後又立馬回到了一個舊的。事實是，現在沒有，在整個歷史上也從未有過，在任何一個國家真正存在過，男女平等。一個都沒有。196個國家，在整個進化過程中，從沒有過。 那，這裡是一張進化的示意圖。 （笑聲） 我們女性根本不在裡面好嘛！ （笑聲） 男性可以進化得這麼聰明真是個奇蹟。所以— （笑聲） 這個問題讓我困擾，我知道我應該為它做些什麼。可是我很忙。我有一份全職的工作，我有三個孩子還有一個年邁的母親。事實上，說實話，我來到這裡的原因之一，是因為TED Talks說我可以有15分鐘屬於自己的時間，而我從來沒有過那麼多 — （笑聲） （掌聲） 所以我真的是很忙。但是不管怎麼樣，我已經嘗試過去改變世界。是這個樣子的，每個人內在都有一個，我稱它為“激活按鈕”。它會被按下，當你想到：“我一定要為這個做點什麼”。它可以因為各種不同的原因被按下。也許你面對某種不公平，或者妳偶然遇到某種不公正，有時因為疾病，或者因為你天生的劣勢，或者生活的窮困。我的話，我生來是同性戀。我一直都知道，而且我的家人一點都不為此感到驚訝。這是我四歲時的照片。我看起來很可愛，可是我發自內心地覺得我看起來像 Clint Eastwood. (笑聲) 我的激活按鈕被按下，是當我有了孩子時—和我當時的丈夫有的三個很棒的孩子。我在英國電視業工作，他們出生的時候我已經在主持自己的節目，在大眾眼皮底下工作。我喜歡我的工作，但是我更愛我的孩子們。我不希望他們帶著秘密長大。1993年，我的兒子，最小的一個孩子出生。當時沒有，至少我不知道，任何一個在英國出櫃的，同性戀公眾女性。我不覺得有祕密是件好事情。我覺得秘密是靈魂的毒瘤。所以我決定出櫃。 每個人都警告我，這樣做的話我再也沒法繼續工作，但是我還是覺得，這是值得去冒險一試的。好吧，當時狀況真的是非常糟糕。在英國，我們右翼媒體中有一個特別邪惡的部門，他們當時要瘋了。他們的憎恨挑動起了社會中的一些不安定元素，然後我們受到了死亡威脅—威脅多到我不得不帶著孩子們躲起來。並且需要警方的保護。說真的，在寂靜深夜中，有很多個時刻我為我自己做的事情而感到害怕。 最終，事情都平息了。和所有的預期相悖，我開始繼續工作，並且孩子們的表現一如既往得，非常了不起。我記得當我兒子六歲的時候，他有個朋友來家裡玩。他們在隔壁屋玩，我可以聽到他們聊天。他的朋友問他，“有兩個媽媽是什麼樣子？”我當時有點擔憂，於是湊近聽到我兒子說，“特別棒！因為如果其中有一個生病的，你還有另外一個可以給你做飯。“ （笑聲） 所以我的同性戀平權的激活按鈕被按下，同時還有很有很多很多其他的，我參加了多年同性權益活動，特別是，為了爭取與我愛的人結為夫妻的權益。最終我們成功了。在2014年，法律條文變更的當天，我和我深愛的妻子結婚。 （掌聲） 我們一點都不低調—我們的婚禮是在倫敦皇家節日音樂廳的舞台上。那是件特別棒的事情。禮堂可以容納2500人。我們邀請了150位家人朋友，然後告知公眾：我們歡迎任何想要來一起慶祝的人加入我們。對任何想參加的人都是免費的。真的有2500人來了。 （掌聲） 各種各樣你能想像到的人：同性戀、異性戀、猶太教智者、修女、已婚的、黑人、白人—整個人類群體都在那裏了。我記得自己站在那個舞台上想：“多棒啊。任務完成。愛，勝利。法律改變。“然後我— （掌聲） 然後我真的認為我被激活的日子結束了。所以每一年在那同一個禮堂，我都會辦一個音樂會以慶祝國際婦女節。我們組織了世界上唯一的僅有女性的管弦樂隊，我們演奏那些被遺忘或忽略的由女性編曲家編寫的美麗樂章，我們有特別厲害的指揮們 —指揮是來自Baltimore的Marin Alsop，由Petula Clark演唱—而我會做一個關於女性歷史的演講。我樂於收集過去那些鼓舞人心的故事，並將它們傳遞下去。我常常覺得，歷史是，我稱之為羅斯摩爾山模式。它看起來很壯麗，但是女性一直被它忽略。 我在2015年做過一個關於婦女參政權論者們的演講 —你們一定聽說過這些偉大女性們，為了女性在英國的選舉權而努力抗爭。她們的口號是：“行動，而非言語。”她們成功了。在1928年，女性確實獲得了投票權。所以我就做了關於這個的演講，在我演講的時候，我意識到：我不是在進行一個關於歷史的演說；這不是一件已經徹底完成的事情。這是一件還有太多需要被完成的事情。比如，世界上沒有一個地方，女性表現出擁有平等的權利地位。 讓我們快速地看一下2016年倫敦證卷交易所的100強公司。100家公司中，有多少家是女性經營的？7家。我覺得還行吧。可是你會發現，有17家由名為 “John” 的男性經營。 （笑聲） 有更多名為 “John” 的男性經營富時100指數公司— （笑聲） 比女性多多了。有14家由名為 “Dave” 的男性經營。 （笑聲） 我確信Dave和John都做得特別好。 （笑聲） 那麼，這有什麼影響呢？這反映了討厭的性別待遇的差距。世界上沒有一個地方是，女性與男性同等薪資的。並且這種狀況不會改變除非有更多的女性成為領導者。我們有很多的法律支持；英國同等薪資法案在1975年通過，然而，仍然有很多女性從11月初到年底，和她們的男性同事相比，實際上是在免費工作的。實際上，世界經濟論壇預測女性會最終...於2133年得到同等薪資！耶！ （笑聲） 這是個糟糕的數字。事實上：在我出發來演講的前一天，世界經濟論壇修改了這個數字。很不錯，因為2133確實太糟糕了。你們知道他們改成多少了嘛？2186. （笑聲） 真的，再多53年。我們不可能得到同等薪資即使是我外孫的外孫如果按照目前制度的話。 而我等了太久了。就我自己的事業而言，也等了太久。在2016年我成為了英國首位黃金時段電視討論節目的女主持人。是不是很棒？！是的，我特別高興。但是— （掌聲） 直到2016！首位！電視都已經普及了近80年了！ （笑聲） 也許是因為電視並沒有那麼重要，但是這還是有一定代表性的，不是麼？2016年，聯合國想找一個新的大使來代表女性權利和性別平等。可是他們選擇了誰？神力女超人。是的，他們選擇了一個卡通人物。 （笑聲） 因為沒有一位女性可以勝任那份工作。 女性權利地位的表現驚人得低。在國會是這樣的，在英國議會上更是這樣。僅2015年，被選舉進入議會的男性人數就超過了歷年女性議員的總和。這說明什麼呢？如果她們不出現在那張桌子上—在英國，真的，不在那張桌子上參與法律的制定 —如果女性觀點被無視，也無須驚訝。 對於年輕人來說，一位真正掌權的女性會是一個很好的榜樣。在2016年，英國有了第二位女首相；Theresa May 當政。她當政的第一天，被要求：就做一件事情。在第一個100天，做一件事情，試著去提高英國女性的生活。然後她做了什麼呢？什麼都沒有。什麼都沒有。因為她忙著去處理前面留下來的爛攤子。即使是有一位當政的女性領導者，她們也總是去忙其他的事情而不是去解決不平等的問題。 我一直在講平等有多麼重要，但究竟是不是這樣子的呢？那我們就來看看STEM行業。也就是科學，技術，工程和數學行業。差不多對於我們生活的每一方面，都起著非常重要的作用。存在著對於女性，特別嚴重且人人皆知的阻礙在STEM行業中。如果癌症的療法或者全球暖化的解答注定由某位年輕的女性去攻克，而她卻被阻礙向前？ 於是我想著這些事情，我知道我需要做的是“行動，而非言語。”於是我和一位特別棒的朋友談及這些，一位聰明的英國記者，Catherine Mayer然後我們非常愚蠢地 —我懷疑酒精也起了點作用 — （笑聲） 我們決定成立一個全新的政治組織。因為重要的一點是：在投票箱前男女是完全平等的。我們完全不知道自己是在做什麼，我們不知道創立一個政治組織有多麼的困難。我想說：“應該不會那麼難吧，男性都做了那麼多年。” （笑聲） 於是我們首先給它取了個名字“女性平權派。 ”然後立馬有人問我，“為什麼起這個名字？”我說 “我不知道，我以為這樣一叫大家都明白了。“ （笑聲） 你知道的，我不希望我們做的事情是秘密的。就 — （笑聲） 一些人跟我說：“你不能叫它這個！這太女權主義了！”啊！世界太可怕啦！啊！我聽到過非常多次，人們說，“我不是個女權主義者，但是...”我一直覺得。一旦句子裡有一個 “但是”，就不會是想像中那麼美好。然後我開始被問一些很好笑的問題，“你們要燒掉所有的內衣麼？”是的！大家都知道內衣是由易燃材料做的。 （笑聲） 那就是為什麼女性在走路的時候都閃著光。 （笑聲） 補充一點歷史知識：60年代根本沒有女性燒掉自己的內衣，這只是一位記者杜撰出的故事。幸好傳媒界的素質在那之後得到了提高。所以 — （笑聲） 我在一個廣播採訪中宣布了，我們即將要做的事情，然後立刻，有人發郵件來。一開始是幾百封，後來是成千上萬封。各種年齡段：從非常年輕的到90多歲的老人，甚至很多傑出的男性們。人們寫信來問“我有什麼可以幫忙的麼？”“我能來妳們總部參觀麼？”我們沒有總部— 我們沒有黨派！我們什麼都沒有。我們只是一個由好朋友組成的小組織。穿著睡衣全天去試著回覆郵件。 我們都非常忙。我們中很多人有自己的事業，有孩子。但是我們做的是女性應該做的，我們共同承擔這份工作。非常快地，我們達成了一些基本共識。第一：我們希望這是唯一的一個致力於不被需要的組織。這是個特別棒的想法。然後，我們希望成為唯一的一個沒有任何政治傾向的組織。我們希望需要任何左翼，右翼，中立，任何年齡層的的人們。因為我們要做的就是這麼一件事情：將平等滲透到生活的各個方面中，等我們把這件事情做完了，再回家去把其他家務活做了。 （笑聲） 我們希望能改變政治是如何被主導的。不知道在你們國家是不是這樣，但在英國我們有兩大政派，政治巨頭。然而他們之間的溝通方式充滿惡意。我打賭在這裡你一定沒有經歷過那樣的謾罵 — （笑聲） 和欺騙。如果哪怕只有一個政客說，“其實，我的對手有一個有價值的觀點，讓我們合作把事情解決吧。“ 難道不是很好嘛？ （掌聲） 讓更多的女性參與政治，好嗎？我們想馬上讓更多的女性參與政治通過成為唯一的，能給候選者的孩子們提供照顧的政治組織，這樣子。她們能夠從家庭中脫身然後開始競選。 （掌聲） 10個月內，我們在整個英國發展了70個組織分支，我們在倫敦，蘇格蘭，威爾士都分別有成員參與了2016年五月的競選。我們的倫敦市長參選人獲得了1/20的投票。而當競選中的男性看到我們能獲得多少選票時，奇蹟中的奇蹟，他們也開始談論如何實現性別平等。 （掌聲） 從我小時候起，大家就在承諾著改變。總是說，馬上就會實現的：女性一定能和男性平等並肩。但我真正得到的都是空頭支票和失望 —太多失望了，所以我要成立這樣一個政治組織。但是今天我要說的是一個新的想法，剛才那只是其中的5%。這個想法很有意義。因為，只有我們現在的組織，還不夠。在某一個國家成立某一個信仰平等的政治組織，是遠遠不夠的。我們需要的是在全球政治環境中的巨大變革。而我們創造的這一模式，好處之一是在任何地方都適用。在美國可以，在澳大利亞，印度都可以。就像是我們寫好了這個菜譜，任何人都可以照著做，並且對任何人都會有好處。我們樂於分享。如果你想知道我們是怎麼做的，讓我們告訴你。你能想像麼，如果我們能動員全球成千上萬的女性向傳統的政治競爭說 “夠了！”說 “停止爭吵，解決問題。“我們真的可以改變這個世界。而那是我想要的。 （掌聲） 我希望... （掌聲） 這是為了我們的女兒們，也為我們的兒子們，因為平等對每個人都是有利的。 來吧大家！行動起來！讓我們改變這個世界！我知道我們可以做到，我們需要每個人的行動！ （掌聲）
