Talk	en	zh-tw
sangu_delle_there_s_no_shame_in_taking_care_of_your_mental_health	"Last year ... was hell. (Laughter) It was my first time eating Nigerian ""jollof."" (Laughter) Actually, in all seriousness, I was going through a lot of personal turmoil. Faced with enormous stress, I suffered an anxiety attack. On some days, I could do no work. On other days, I just wanted to lay in my bed and cry. My doctor asked if I'd like to speak with a mental health professional about my stress and anxiety. Mental health? I clammed up and violently shook my head in protest. I felt a profound sense of a shame. I felt the weight of stigma. I have a loving, supportive family and incredibly loyal friends, yet I could not entertain the idea of speaking to anyone about my feeling of pain. I felt suffocated by the rigid architecture of our African masculinity. ""People have real problems, Sangu. Get over yourself!"" The first time I heard ""mental health,"" I was a boarding school student fresh off the boat from Ghana, at the Peddie School in New Jersey. I had just gone through the brutal experience of losing seven loved ones in the same month. The school nurse, concerned about what I'd gone through — God bless her soul — she inquired about my mental health. ""Is she mental?"" I thought. Does she not know I'm an African man? (Laughter) Like Okonkwo in ""Things Fall Apart,"" we African men neither process nor express our emotions. We deal with our problems. (Applause) We deal with our problems. I called my brother and laughed about ""Oyibo"" people — white people — and their strange diseases — depression, ADD and those ""weird things."" Growing up in West Africa, when people used the term ""mental,"" what came to mind was a madman with dirty, dread-locked hair, bumbling around half-naked on the streets. We all know this man. Our parents warned us about him. ""Mommy, mommy, why is he mad?"" ""Drugs! If you even look at drugs, you end up like him."" (Laughter) Come down with pneumonia, and your mother will rush you to the nearest hospital for medical treatment. But dare to declare depression, and your local pastor will be driving out demons and blaming witches in your village. According to the World Health Organization, mental health is about being able to cope with the normal stressors of life; to work productively and fruitfully; and to be able to make a contribution to your community. Mental health includes our emotional, psychological and social well-being. Globally, 75 percent of all mental illness cases can be found in low-income countries. Yet most African governments invest less than one percent of their health care budget in mental health. Even worse, we have a severe shortage of psychiatrists in Africa. Nigeria, for example, is estimated to have 200 — in a country of almost 200 million. In all of Africa, 90 percent of our people lack access to treatment. As a result, we suffer in solitude, silenced by stigma. We as Africans often respond to mental health with distance, ignorance, guilt, fear and anger. In a study conducted by Arboleda-Flórez, directly asking, ""What is the cause of mental illness?"" 34 percent of Nigerian respondents cited drug misuse; 19 percent said divine wrath and the will of God — (Laughter) 12 percent, witchcraft and spiritual possession. But few cited other known causes of mental illness, like genetics, socioeconomic status, war, conflict or the loss of a loved one. The stigmatization against mental illness often results in the ostracizing and demonizing of sufferers. Photojournalist Robin Hammond has documented some of these abuses ... in Uganda, in Somalia, and here in Nigeria. For me, the stigma is personal. In 2009, I received a frantic call in the middle of the night. My best friend in the world — a brilliant, philosophical, charming, hip young man — was diagnosed with schizophrenia. I witnessed some of the friends we'd grown up with recoil. I heard the snickers. I heard the whispers. ""Did you hear he has gone mad?"" (Kru English) ""He has gone crazy!"" Derogatory, demeaning commentary about his condition — words we would never say about someone with cancer or someone with malaria. Somehow, when it comes to mental illness, our ignorance eviscerates all empathy. I stood by his side as his community isolated him, but our love never wavered. Tacitly, I became passionate about mental health. Inspired by his plight, I helped found the mental health special interest alumni group at my college. And during my tenure as a resident tutor in graduate school, I supported many undergraduates with their mental health challenges. I saw African students struggle and unable to speak to anyone. Even with this knowledge and with their stories in tow, I, in turn, struggled, and could not speak to anyone when I faced my own anxiety, so deep is our fear of being the madman. All of us — but we Africans especially — need to realize that our mental struggles do not detract from our virility, nor does our trauma taint our strength. We need to see mental health as important as physical health. We need to stop suffering in silence. We must stop stigmatizing disease and traumatizing the afflicted. Talk to your friends. Talk to your loved ones. Talk to health professionals. Be vulnerable. Do so with the confidence that you are not alone. Speak up if you're struggling. Being honest about how we feel does not make us weak; it makes us human. It is time to end the stigma associated with mental illness. So the next time your hear ""mental,"" do not just think of the madman. Think of me. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	去年糟透了。 （笑聲） 我第一次品嘗了奈及利亞的辣味大鍋飯。 （笑聲） 實際上，嚴肅地說，我經歷了太多的個人的困境。面對大量的壓力，我感覺很焦慮。有時候，我無法工作。有時候，我甚至只想躺在床上哭泣。 我的醫生問我是否願意見一下心理健康專家，談談我的壓力和焦慮。心理健康？我閉上嘴，瘋狂地搖頭以示抗議。一股深深的羞恥感襲上心頭。沉重的羞恥。我有一個充滿愛和支持的家庭，我有一群無比忠誠的朋友，然而我不能接受這樣的想法：與別人談談我痛苦的情感。我們非洲對於男子氣概嚴格的觀點都要讓我窒息了。「人們都有現實的問題，桑谷，你得戰勝自己！」 我第一次聽說「心理健康」時，我還是來自迦納的一名寄宿新生，就讀於紐澤西州的佩蒂中學。我剛剛經歷了一個月內失去7 個親人的殘酷事實。學校的護士關心我的經歷──上帝保佑她──她詢問我的心理健康狀況。「她心理不正常嗎？」我想。她不知道我是非洲男人嗎？ （笑聲） 就像《生命中不可承受之重》裡的奧康渥，我們非洲男人既不處理也不表達自己的感情。我們解決自己的問題。 （掌聲） 我們解決自己的問題。我打電話給我的哥哥，嘲笑白人，和他們奇怪的疾病，比如憂鬱症、注意力缺乏症候群這些奇怪的東西。身為在西非長大的人，提到「心理」這個名詞時，進入腦海的是一個瘋子，頂著看起來髒兮兮的「髒辮頭」，半裸著身體在街上搖搖晃晃。我們都認識這個人。我們的父母用他來警告過我們。「媽媽，媽媽，他為什麼瘋了？」「毒品！就算你只看了一眼毒品，下場也會和他一樣。」 （笑聲） 如果得了肺炎，媽媽會帶你到最近的醫院治療。但是，如果聲稱得了憂鬱症，當地的牧師將會驅趕惡魔，並且責備村子裡的女巫。 根據世界衛生組織，心理健康是指能夠處理生活中的正常壓力的能力；高效流暢地工作；能對社區做出貢獻。心理健康包涵我們的情感、心理和社會福祉。全球所有心理疾病案例中的 75%都能在低收入國家中發現。但是絕大多數非洲政府僅將其健康預算中不到 1% 的錢投入到心理健康。 更糟糕的是，非洲的精神病醫生嚴重短缺。比如，奈及利亞，一個兩億人口的國家，只有 200 名精神病醫生。整個非洲，90% 的人缺乏治療。結果是，我們孤獨地忍受著，羞恥地沉默著。 我們非洲人對心理健康的回應是距離、無知、內疚、恐懼和憤怒。在阿爾博萊達德—弗洛雷斯指導的一項研究中，他直接問道：「心理疾病的起因是什麼？」34% 的奈及利亞人認為是濫用毒品；19% 的人歸因於神的憤怒和上帝的旨意。 （笑聲） 12% 的人則認為是巫術和邪靈附身。但很少有人舉出已知的精神疾病成因。例如遺傳、社會經濟狀況、戰爭、衝突，或者失去親人。對心理疾病的污名化常常導致對患者的排斥和妖魔化。攝影記者羅賓哈蒙德已經記錄下了這些行為。在烏干達，在索馬里，以及這裡，奈及利亞。 對我而言，汙名化是親身的經歷。在 2009年，半夜我接到了一通瘋狂的電話，我最好的朋友，一個才華橫溢、明哲、迷人、時髦的小伙子，被診斷為精神分裂症。我親眼目睹了一些一起長大的朋友的做法。我聽到了竊笑。我聽到了竊竊私語。「你聽說他瘋了的事嗎？」「他開始發飆了！」關於他的狀況的那些貶低、貶損的評論，那些詞，從來不會用於某個患了癌症的人，或者某個得了痢疾的人。不知什麼原因，一談到心理疾病，我們的無知就將所有的同情剔除乾淨。當他被社區隔離時，我站在他的旁邊，但我們的愛從未動搖。 默默地，我開始關注心理健康。受到他的困境的啟發，我在學校發現了一個心理健康特別興趣校友小組。在我擔任研究生宿舍導師期間，我幫助了很多面臨心理健康調整的大學生。我發現非洲學生在掙扎，無法跟任何人溝通 。即使帶著這些知識和他們的故事，在面對我自己的焦慮時，我反而也在掙扎，並且無法跟任何人溝通。所以深層次的原因是我們害怕成為瘋子。 我們所有人──特別是非洲人──要意識到我們的心理掙扎並不會減損我們的力量，心理創傷也不會腐蝕我們的力量。我們要意識到心理健康和身體健康一樣重要。不要在沉默中忍受。我們必須停止汙名化疾病，停止傷害患者。 和你的朋友談談，和你的親人談談，和健康專業人士談談，弱勢一點，邁開這一步，並且相信你並不是一個人。如果你還在掙扎，大聲說出來。誠實面對自己的感受並不會讓我們弱小；反而使我們成為人。 是時候終止污名化心理疾病了。所以，下一次，當你聽到「心理」這個詞，不要僅僅想到瘋子，想想我。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
