Talk	en	zh-tw
sanjay_dastoor_a_skateboard_with_a_boost	Today I'm going to show you an electric vehicle that weighs less than a bicycle, that you can carry with you anywhere, that you can charge off a normal wall outlet in 15 minutes, and you can run it for 1,000 kilometers on about a dollar of electricity. But when I say the word electric vehicle, people think about vehicles. They think about cars and motorcycles and bicycles, and the vehicles that you use every day. But if you come about it from a different perspective, you can create some more interesting, more novel concepts. So we built something. I've got some of the pieces in my pocket here. So this is the motor. This motor has enough power to take you up the hills of San Francisco at about 20 miles per hour, about 30 kilometers an hour, and this battery, this battery right here has about six miles of range, or 10 kilometers, which is enough to cover about half of the car trips in the U.S. alone. But the best part about these components is that we bought them at a toy store. These are from remote control airplanes. And the performance of these things has gotten so good that if you think about vehicles a little bit differently, you can really change things. So today we're going to show you one example of how you can use this. Pay attention to not only how fun this thing is, but also how the portability that comes with this can totally change the way you interact with a city like San Francisco. (Music) [6 Mile Range] [Top Speed Near 20mph] [Uphill Climbing] [Regenerative Braking] (Applause) (Cheers) So we're going to show you what this thing can do. It's really maneuverable. You have a hand-held remote, so you can pretty easily control acceleration, braking, go in reverse if you like, also have braking. It's incredible just how light this thing is. I mean, this is something you can pick up and carry with you anywhere you go. So I'll leave you with one of the most compelling facts about this technology and these kinds of vehicles. This uses 20 times less energy for every mile or kilometer that you travel than a car, which means not only is this thing fast to charge and really cheap to build, but it also reduces the footprint of your energy use in terms of your transportation. So instead of looking at large amounts of energy needed for each person in this room to get around in a city, now you can look at much smaller amounts and more sustainable transportation. So next time you think about a vehicle, I hope, like us, you're thinking about something new. Thank you. (Applause)	今天我將展示一台電動車它的重量比腳踏車還輕，你到哪裡都可以隨身帶著它，你可以從普通的充電插座充電 15 分鐘，接著你就可以騎 1000 公里約一美元的電力。但當我說到電動車的時候，人們想到的是車。他們想的是汽車、機車、和腳踏車，那些你每天使用的車輛。但是假如你是從不同觀點來看，你可以創造更多的趣味，更多新的概念。 所以我們建造了某些東西。我口袋裡有一些零件。這是一個馬達。這個馬達有足夠的馬力可以讓你以爬舊金山的山，大概一小時走 20 英里，也就是大約時速 30 公里，然後這個電池，在這邊的這個電池約有可以走 6 英里的電量，或是 10 公里，它足夠應付一半以上美國內的汽車旅行。它足夠應付一半以上美國內的汽車旅行。但最棒的部分是關於這些元件是我們從玩具店買來的。它們是來自遙控飛機。這些零件的性能已經變得如此良好，使得假如你想讓車輛有一小點的不同，你也能真正的改變一些事情。 所以今天我們將展示一個範例讓你知道如何使用這個東西。將你的注意力不僅要放在這個東西有多有趣，也要注意隨之而來攜帶的方便性它將完全改變你和像舊金山城市互動的方式。 （音樂）〔6英里範圍〕〔最高速近每小時20英里〕〔攀爬上坡〕〔再生式煞車〕（譯註：指煞車時產生電能而非原本會流失的熱能。） （掌聲）（歡呼聲） 所以我們將展示這能做什麼。它非常的有機動性。你有一個手持遙控，所以你可以非常簡單地控制加速、煞車、以及倒車，假如你喜歡的話，同樣也是有煞車。最難以置信的就是它非常地輕。我指的是，你可以拿起來並攜帶在你身邊，隨你去任何地方。 所以我們將會留給你們一個最引人注目的事實，是關於這項技術和這些種類的「車」。這減少了 20 倍的能源消耗，和你旅行時開車每一英里或一公里比起來，這不僅代表它可快速充電而且造價便宜，同時它也減少你在交通運輸上使用能源留下的痕跡。所以與其尋找更大量的需求能源來讓這房間內每個人在城市間往來，現在你可以尋找消耗更少能源而且更可持續發展的交通運輸工具。 所以下次當你想到車輛，我希望，像我們一樣，你們會聯想到一些新的東西。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
