Talk	en	zh-tw
sara_seager_the_search_for_planets_beyond_our_solar_system	"I'm here to tell you about the real search for alien life. Not little green humanoids arriving in shiny UFOs, although that would be nice. But it's the search for planets orbiting stars far away. Every star in our sky is a sun. And if our sun has planets — Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, etc., surely those other stars should have planets also, and they do. And in the last two decades, astronomers have found thousands of exoplanets. Our night sky is literally teeming with exoplanets. We know, statistically speaking, that every star has at least one planet. And in the search for planets, and in the future, planets that might be like Earth, we're able to help address some of the most amazing and mysterious questions that have faced humankind for centuries. Why are we here? Why does our universe exist? How did Earth form and evolve? How and why did life originate and populate our planet? The second question that we often think about is: Are we alone? Is there life out there? Who is out there? You know, this question has been around for thousands of years, since at least the time of the Greek philosophers. But I'm here to tell you just how close we're getting to finding out the answer to this question. It's the first time in human history that this really is within reach for us. Now when I think about the possibilities for life out there, I think of the fact that our sun is but one of many stars. This is a photograph of a real galaxy, we think our Milky Way looks like this galaxy. It's a collection of bound stars. But our [sun] is one of hundreds of billions of stars and our galaxy is one of upwards of hundreds of billions of galaxies. Knowing that small planets are very common, you can just do the math. And there are just so many stars and so many planets out there, that surely, there must be life somewhere out there. Well, the biologists get furious with me for saying that, because we have absolutely no evidence for life beyond Earth yet. Well, if we were able to look at our galaxy from the outside and zoom in to where our sun is, we see a real map of the stars. And the highlighted stars are those with known exoplanets. This is really just the tip of the iceberg. Here, this animation is zooming in onto our solar system. And you'll see here the planets as well as some spacecraft that are also orbiting our sun. Now if we can imagine going to the West Coast of North America, and looking out at the night sky, here's what we'd see on a spring night. And you can see the constellations overlaid and again, so many stars with planets. There's a special patch of the sky where we have thousands of planets. This is where the Kepler Space Telescope focused for many years. Let's zoom in and look at one of the favorite exoplanets. This star is called Kepler-186f. It's a system of about five planets. And by the way, most of these exoplanets, we don't know too much about. We know their size, and their orbit and things like that. But there's a very special planet here called Kepler-186f. This planet is in a zone that is not too far from the star, so that the temperature may be just right for life. Here, the artist's conception is just zooming in and showing you what that planet might be like. So, many people have this romantic notion of astronomers going to the telescope on a lonely mountaintop and looking at the spectacular night sky through a big telescope. But actually, we just work on our computers like everyone else, and we get our data by email or downloading from a database. So instead of coming here to tell you about the somewhat tedious nature of the data and data analysis and the complex computer models we make, I have a different way to try to explain to you some of the things that we're thinking about exoplanets. Here's a travel poster: ""Kepler-186f: Where the grass is always redder on the other side."" That's because Kepler-186f orbits a red star, and we're just speculating that perhaps the plants there, if there is vegetation that does photosynthesis, it has different pigments and looks red. ""Enjoy the gravity on HD 40307g, a Super-Earth."" This planet is more massive than Earth and has a higher surface gravity. ""Relax on Kepler-16b, where your shadow always has company."" (Laughter) We know of a dozen planets that orbit two stars, and there's likely many more out there. If we could visit one of those planets, you literally would see two sunsets and have two shadows. So actually, science fiction got some things right. Tatooine from Star Wars. And I have a couple of other favorite exoplanets to tell you about. This one is Kepler-10b, it's a hot, hot planet. It orbits over 50 times closer to its star than our Earth does to our sun. And actually, it's so hot, we can't visit any of these planets, but if we could, we would melt long before we got there. We think the surface is hot enough to melt rock and has liquid lava lakes. Gliese 1214b. This planet, we know the mass and the size and it has a fairly low density. It's somewhat warm. We actually don't know really anything about this planet, but one possibility is that it's a water world, like a scaled-up version of one of Jupiter's icy moons that might be 50 percent water by mass. And in this case, it would have a thick steam atmosphere overlaying an ocean, not of liquid water, but of an exotic form of water, a superfluid — not quite a gas, not quite a liquid. And under that wouldn't be rock, but a form of high-pressure ice, like ice IX. So out of all these planets out there, and the variety is just simply astonishing, we mostly want to find the planets that are Goldilocks planets, we call them. Not too big, not too small, not too hot, not too cold — but just right for life. But to do that, we'd have to be able to look at the planet's atmosphere, because the atmosphere acts like a blanket trapping heat — the greenhouse effect. We have to be able to assess the greenhouse gases on other planets. Well, science fiction got some things wrong. The Star Trek Enterprise had to travel vast distances at incredible speeds to orbit other planets so that First Officer Spock could analyze the atmosphere to see if the planet was habitable or if there were lifeforms there. Well, we don't need to travel at warp speeds to see other planet atmospheres, although I don't want to dissuade any budding engineers from figuring out how to do that. We actually can and do study planet atmospheres from here, from Earth orbit. This is a picture, a photograph of the Hubble Space Telescope taken by the shuttle Atlantis as it was departing after the last human space flight to Hubble. They installed a new camera, actually, that we use for exoplanet atmospheres. And so far, we've been able to study dozens of exoplanet atmospheres, about six of them in great detail. But those are not small planets like Earth. They're big, hot planets that are easy to see. We're not ready, we don't have the right technology yet to study small exoplanets. But nevertheless, I wanted to try to explain to you how we study exoplanet atmospheres. I want you to imagine, for a moment, a rainbow. And if we could look at this rainbow closely, we would see that some dark lines are missing. And here's our sun, the white light of our sun split up, not by raindrops, but by a spectrograph. And you can see all these dark, vertical lines. Some are very narrow, some are wide, some are shaded at the edges. And this is actually how astronomers have studied objects in the heavens, literally, for over a century. So here, each different atom and molecule has a special set of lines, a fingerprint, if you will. And that's how we study exoplanet atmospheres. And I'll just never forget when I started working on exoplanet atmospheres 20 years ago, how many people told me, ""This will never happen. We'll never be able to study them. Why are you bothering?"" And that's why I'm pleased to tell you about all the atmospheres studied now, and this is really a field of its own. So when it comes to other planets, other Earths, in the future when we can observe them, what kind of gases would we be looking for? Well, you know, our own Earth has oxygen in the atmosphere to 20 percent by volume. That's a lot of oxygen. But without plants and photosynthetic life, there would be no oxygen, virtually no oxygen in our atmosphere. So oxygen is here because of life. And our goal then is to look for gases in other planet atmospheres, gases that don't belong, that we might be able to attribute to life. But which molecules should we search for? I actually told you how diverse exoplanets are. We expect that to continue in the future when we find other Earths. And that's one of the main things I'm working on now, I have a theory about this. It reminds me that nearly every day, I receive an email or emails from someone with a crazy theory about physics of gravity or cosmology or some such. So, please don't email me one of your crazy theories. (Laughter) Well, I had my own crazy theory. But, who does the MIT professor go to? Well, I emailed a Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine and he said, ""Sure, come and talk to me."" So I brought my two biochemistry friends and we went to talk to him about our crazy theory. And that theory was that life produces all small molecules, so many molecules. Like, everything I could think of, but not being a chemist. Think about it: carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, molecular hydrogen, molecular nitrogen, methane, methyl chloride — so many gases. They also exist for other reasons, but just life even produces ozone. So we go to talk to him about this, and immediately, he shot down the theory. He found an example that didn't exist. So, we went back to the drawing board and we think we have found something very interesting in another field. But back to exoplanets, the point is that life produces so many different types of gases, literally thousands of gases. And so what we're doing now is just trying to figure out on which types of exoplanets, which gases could be attributed to life. And so when it comes time when we find gases in exoplanet atmospheres that we won't know if they're being produced by intelligent aliens or by trees, or a swamp, or even just by simple, single-celled microbial life. So working on the models and thinking about biochemistry, it's all well and good. But a really big challenge ahead of us is: how? How are we going to find these planets? There are actually many ways to find planets, several different ways. But the one that I'm most focused on is how can we open a gateway so that in the future, we can find hundreds of Earths. We have a real shot at finding signs of life. And actually, I just finished leading a two-year project in this very special phase of a concept we call the starshade. And the starshade is a very specially shaped screen and the goal is to fly that starshade so it blocks out the light of a star so that the telescope can see the planets directly. Here, you can see myself and two team members holding up one small part of the starshade. It's shaped like a giant flower, and this is one of the prototype petals. The concept is that a starshade and telescope could launch together, with the petals unfurling from the stowed position. The central truss would expand, with the petals snapping into place. Now, this has to be made very precisely, literally, the petals to microns and they have to deploy to millimeters. And this whole structure would have to fly tens of thousands of kilometers away from the telescope. It's about tens of meters in diameter. And the goal is to block out the starlight to incredible precision so that we'd be able to see the planets directly. And it has to be a very special shape, because of the physics of defraction. Now this is a real project that we worked on, literally, you would not believe how hard. Just so you believe it's not just in movie format, here's a real photograph of a second-generation starshade deployment test bed in the lab. And in this case, I just wanted you to know that that central truss has heritage left over from large radio deployables in space. So after all of that hard work where we try to think of all the crazy gases that might be out there, and we build the very complicated space telescopes that might be out there, what are we going to find? Well, in the best case, we will find an image of another exo-Earth. Here is Earth as a pale blue dot. And this is actually a real photograph of Earth taken by the Voyager 1 spacecraft, four billion miles away. And that red light is just scattered light in the camera optics. But what's so awesome to consider is that if there are intelligent aliens orbiting on a planet around a star near to us and they build complicated space telescopes of the kind that we're trying to build, all they'll see is this pale blue dot, a pinprick of light. And so sometimes, when I pause to think about my professional struggle and huge ambition, it's hard to think about that in contrast to the vastness of the universe. But nonetheless, I am devoting the rest of my life to finding another Earth. And I can guarantee that in the next generation of space telescopes, in the second generation, we will have the capability to find and identity other Earths. And the capability to split up the starlight so that we can look for gases and assess the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, estimate the surface temperature, and look for signs of life. But there's more. In this case of searching for other planets like Earth, we are making a new kind of map of the nearby stars and of the planets orbiting them, including [planets] that actually might be inhabitable by humans. And so I envision that our descendants, hundreds of years from now, will embark on an interstellar journey to other worlds. And they will look back at all of us as the generation who first found the Earth-like worlds. Thank you. (Applause) June Cohen: And I give you, for a question, Rosetta Mission Manager Fred Jansen. Fred Jansen: You mentioned halfway through that the technology to actually look at the spectrum of an exoplanet like Earth is not there yet. When do you expect this will be there, and what's needed? Actually, what we expect is what we call our next-generation Hubble telescope. And this is called the James Webb Space Telescope, and that will launch in 2018, and that's what we're going to do, we're going to look at a special kind of planet called transient exoplanets, and that will be our first shot at studying small planets for gases that might indicate the planet is habitable. JC: I'm going to ask you one follow-up question, too, Sara, as the generalist. So I am really struck by the notion in your career of the opposition you faced, that when you began thinking about exoplanets, there was extreme skepticism in the scientific community that they existed, and you proved them wrong. What did it take to take that on? SS: Well, the thing is that as scientists, we're supposed to be skeptical, because our job to make sure that what the other person is saying actually makes sense or not. But being a scientist, I think you've seen it from this session, it's like being an explorer. You have this immense curiosity, this stubbornness, this sort of resolute will that you will go forward no matter what other people say. JC: I love that. Thank you, Sara. (Applause)"	在這裡我要告訴各位一個有關探尋外星生命的真實故事。我所說不是長得像人的綠色小個子乘坐發光飛碟抵達地球，儘管那個主題也很好。我們在找尋的是繞行恆星的遠方行星。 天空中每一顆恆星都是一個太陽。如果我們的太陽有行星如水星、金星、地球、火星等等，當然那些其他恆星也應該有行星，它們確實有行星。在過去的二十年，天文學家已發現數千顆系外行星。 夜晚的天空幾乎佈滿系外行星。依據統計，我們知道，每顆恆星至少有一顆行星。在探尋行星中，未來，行星或許像地球一樣，我們能夠提出一些令人訝異且神秘的問題這問題已經圍繞人類數百年之久。我們為什麼在這裡？我們的宇宙為什麼存在？地球是如何形成與演變而來的？生命的起源是什麼我們為何生活在這顆星球上？我們經常思考的第二個問題是：我們獨立存在宇宙中嗎？有其他的生物存在嗎？他們是誰？你知道，這個問題已經圍繞人類數千年了，至少從古希臘哲學家那時候起就已經有這個問題。但此時我要告訴你我們有多接近取得這個問題的答案。這是人類史上的第一次 當我思索其他生物存在的可能性，事實上太陽是眾多恆星之一。這是一張真實銀河星系的照片，我們認為銀河就像這張照片。是由眾多恆星組成。太陽是千億恆星中的一員我們的銀河是千億銀河中的一員。我們知道小行星是非常普遍的，可以算得出來。那裡有好多的恆星行星，必然一定有生物存在。生物學家對我這樣的說法會非常生氣，因為我們的確無法證明地球之外有生物存在。 如果我們能夠從外部觀察銀河系將太陽的位置放大觀察，我們看到一張真實的恆星地圖。高亮度的恆星是那些為大家所知的系外行星。這只是冰山的一角。這個動畫放大太陽系的位置。你會看到這些行星和一些太空船一樣繞著太陽轉。想像我們到北美的西岸，看著那裡的夜空，這就是當地春天的夜晚。你可以看到佈滿星群同樣的，很多的恆星和行星。天空有一特殊區塊那裡有數千顆行星。 這是克卜勒太空望遠鏡多年來關注的地方。我們放大畫面觀察其中一顆我們喜愛的系外行星。這恆星被稱為克卜勒-186f。是一個由五個行星組成的系統。順道一提，大部分的系外行星我們並不太了解。我們知道它們的大小，運行軌道之類的。有一個非常特別的行星被稱為克卜勒-186f。這顆行星所在區域距離恆星不遠，其溫度可能適合生物生存。這是藝術家的觀念，將畫面放大向你們展示那顆行星的樣子。 因此，很多人對天文學家有浪漫的想法在一個孤寂的山頂對著望遠鏡透過大的望遠鏡觀察壯觀的夜空。但事實上，我們只是和其他人一樣在電腦前忙碌，透過郵件或從資料庫下載以取得資料。我不是跑到這裡來告訴你有點冗長乏味的資料和資料分析以及我們做的複雜電腦程式，我要以不同的方式向你們解說我們對系外行星的一些想法。這是一張旅行海報：「克卜勒-186f：這草的顏色總是比另一邊的草還要紅。」那是因為克卜勒-186f繞著紅恆星運轉，我們只是推測那裡的行星，如果有進行光合作用的植物，會有不同的色素看起來是紅色。「盡情享受 HD 40307g 的重力，一顆超級地球。」這顆行星遠大於地球而且有較大地表引力。「在克卜勒-16b上放輕鬆影子在那裡成雙成對。」(笑聲）我們知道繞著二顆恆星運轉的十二顆行星，那裡可能有更多的行星。如果我們能夠參觀其中一顆行星，你幾乎可以看到二個日落和二個自己的影子。事實上，科幻小說的故事有些是正確的。星際大戰裡的塔圖因星我還有我喜歡的外行星要告訴你。這顆是克卜勒-10b，是一顆很熱的行星，繞行就近的恆星超過五十次超過地球繞太陽的次數。事實上，它的溫度很高我們無法參觀任何這類的行星如果可以的話，在我們到達之前就已經融化。我們認為其表面溫度很高足以融化岩石有液體熔岩湖。 格利澤 1214b。這顆行星，我們知道它的質量和體積其密度極低。有溫暖的氣候。事實上我們對這星球一無所知，但有一個可能性是這顆行星是個水世界，像一顆放大版的木星冰冷衛星之一或許水就佔了質量的一半。在這種情況下，它有厚厚的大氣流，覆蓋著一片海洋，但不是液體形態的水，而是異質形態的水，一種超級液體，不完全是氣態，不完全是液態。在海洋下面並非岩石，而是一種高壓冰的形態，如同冰 IX。 在那些行星範圍之外的地方，其多樣性也令人驚訝，我們大部分想找的行星是金髮星球行星。體積不太大，也不太小，溫度不太熱，也不太冷，剛好適合生物生存。不過要做到這一點，我們必須能夠觀察到這顆行星的大氣，因為大氣就像一塊保溫地毯溫室效應。我們必須能夠偵測到其他行星的溫室氣體。這方面，科幻小說的描述有誤。「星艦迷航－企業號」必須以高速繞行其他行星做長距離旅行因此副艦長斯波克才能分析大氣以看出該行星是否適合生物定居或者是否有生物存在。我們不需要以極高速度行駛以取得其他其他行星的大氣資料，雖然我不想去勸阻新進工程師去找到實踐這項工作的方法。實際上我們可以由地球軌道去研究那些行星的大氣。這是哈柏望遠鏡的照片由太空梭亞特蘭蒂斯號返航時所拍攝的照片最後一次載人太空船到哈柏之後。他們在太空船上安裝新的照相機，可以用來收集外行星大氣資料。目前，我們已經能夠研究數十個外行星大氣資料，其中六個有非常詳細的資料。這些行星不像地球是個小行星。它們體積大且溫度高，是容易觀察到的行星。我們還沒準備好，我們沒有相當的技術以研究小行星。儘管如此，我仍然想要向大家解釋我們是如何研究外行星大氣。 大家可以想像一下彩虹。如果我們可近距離觀察彩虹，可以看到一些暗色線消失了。這是我們的太陽。白色光分解了。不是被雨滴，而是被光譜儀分解了。你可以看到這暗色垂直的線。有些非常窄，有些寬，有些邊緣被遮住了。這就是天文學家如何研究太空物質的方式，這是過去一百年的研究方式。這張圖，每一原子和分子各有特殊的頻譜線，你可以把它當作指紋，那就是我們利用這訊息來研究外行星的大氣成份我永遠忘不了二十年前剛開起研究外行星大氣的時候，多少人告訴我，「這行不通。我們永遠無法做到。為何費心在這種事上？」那就是為什麼我很高興要告訴你們目前所有有關的大氣研究，它已成形了。當談及到其他行星，其他類似地球行星，將來我們可以觀察到，什麼是我們要尋找的氣體？你知道，地球的大氣含有百分之二十的氧氣。含量很高。但若沒有植物及其光合作用。大氣中不會有氧氣。事實上我們的大氣中沒有氧氣。因為生物的存在才有氧氣。我們目標就是尋找其他行星大氣中的氣體，氣體原本不存在，或許我們可以歸功於生物。我們在尋找哪些分子呢？我告訴過各位外行星的種類很多。未來會陸續發現更多當我們發現其他類似地球的行星。 這是我目前正在從事的最主要工作，我有個自己的理論。它幾乎每天提醒我，我收到一封或多封郵件是對重力物理學理論或是宇宙論提出瘋狂想法的人所寄來的。所以請不要再給我發這種郵件了。（笑聲）我有自己瘋狂的理論。麻省理工學院的教授要跟誰探討呢？我向諾貝爾生理及醫學獎得主發信他說，「好，我們討論一下。」我帶了二個我的生物化學領域的朋友要和他討論我們的瘋狂理論。那理論是，生命製造了所有小分子，許許多多的分子。所有我可以想得到的事情，雖然我不是個化學領域專家。想想看：二氧化碳，一氧化碳，氫分子，氮分子,甲烷，氯甲烷，等諸多氣體。它們的存在也有其原因，生物即可產生臭氧。所以我們和他談論這個主題，結果立刻被他否決。他找到一個不存在的氣體的例子。所以我們回去從頭做起我們發現在其他領域非常有趣的東西。 回到外行星這個話題，重點是生物製造各種不同的氣體，差不多有幾千種。我們現在要做的是試著找出外行星上有那些氣體，那些氣體是由生物產生。當我們在外行星大氣中所找到的氣體不知道這些氣體是由外星人製造，或是樹木所產生，或是由沼澤產生。或是來自單細胞生物。 所以有了一些模型以生物化學思考，會有好的結果。但面臨最大的挑戰是：如何做？要如何找到這些行星？其實有許多方法找到行星。許多不同的方法。不過我把焦點放在我們如何何開啟一個通道在未來，我們可以找到數百個地球。我們確實已著手找尋有生命跡象的生物。我剛完成一個由我負責的二年專案在這個特殊的專案中有一個我們稱為遮星板的概念。遮星板是一個形狀非常特殊的螢幕把遮星板送至外太空它可遮恆星的光因此可以透過望遠鏡直接看到行星。這張圖可以看到我和二位團隊成員拿著遮星板的一小部分。它的形狀就像朵巨大的花，這是一片花瓣的雛型。這個概念是遮星板和望遠鏡可以一同送到太空，然後從存放位置打開花瓣中心的花束會展開，花瓣迅速到達特定位置。這過程要做到非常準確，這花瓣要達微米的精確度部署要達毫米精確度。這整個架構必須送到距離望遠鏡數萬公里的地方。它的直徑有幾十公尺。目的是這個難以置信的精確度要去遮擋恆星的光線這樣我們就可以直接觀察行星。它的形狀必須很特殊，因為繞射現象。這是我們做的一個專案，你無法想像這有多難。這不是一個電影情節這是一張真實的照片實驗室裡第二代遮星板測試平台。在這個專案中，我只是想讓你們知道花的中心點由太空中大範圍展開的無線電設備所留下來。 經過努力之後我們試想所有有可能出現的瘋狂氣體，我們建造非常複雜的太空望遠鏡或許就在那裡，我們將會發現什麼呢？最好的情況是，我們會找到另一張類地球行星的圖片。這個淡藍色的點就是地球。這是一張地球的真實照片是由太空船旅行者一號所拍攝的，從四十億英里外的距離拍下的。這紅色光線是相機散射的光。 思考其中的奧妙如果存在高智慧外星生物靠近我們的行星繞著恆星轉他們建造複雜的太空望遠鏡我們正在建造的那種望遠鏡，他們看到的也是一個淡藍色點，一個小小的光點。有時候，我停下來思考我所面臨的困難和雄心壯志，與浩瀚宇宙相比真是無法比擬。儘管如此，我打算奉獻我的一生來找尋另一個地球。 我可以保證 下一代的太空望遠鏡，也就是第二代，我們有能力找到並識別其他類地球行星。有能力分開星光的光線找到那些氣體確認大氣中溫室氣體的成份，預估星球的表面溫度，尋找生命的跡象。 不過我們有更多的計劃。在尋找類地球行星時，我們也製作一張圖有關於附近恆星及其行星的太空圖，包括可能適合人類居住的行星。 我在想我們的後代子孫，數百年後，透過星際旅行到其他的星球。他們回顧我們這一代是第一個發現類地星球的一代 謝謝各位。 （掌聲） 吉恩·科恩：你先提問，有請羅塞塔任務管理經理弗雷德·詹森 弗雷德·詹森：你剛剛有提到那個用來找尋類地球行星的光譜技術尚未找到。你認為何時可實現我們要如何做？事實上，我們期待下一代哈伯望遠鏡。我們稱它為詹姆斯偉伯太空望遠鏡，將在 2018 年送上太空，這是我們計劃要做的事，我們將觀察一種特殊的行星稱為凌日外行星，那是我們第一次嘗試研究小行星以找尋該行星上存在適合人類居住的氣體。 吉恩：莎拉，接著我也要問你一個問題，一個普通的問題。在你的職業生涯中我對你所面臨的問題感到震驚，當你開始思考外行星時，科學家對於它們是否存在抱著極端懷疑的態度，你證明他們的想法是錯誤的。你是如何做到？ 莎拉：身為科學家，我們理應對事情持有懷疑的態度，因為我們的工作是確認他人的觀點其說法是否合理。但是身為科學家，我想你們已從這段演講中看到，科學家像一個探索者。有強烈的好奇心，堅決的心，堅定不移的意志勇往直前無論其他人說了什麼。 吉恩：說的太好了，謝謝你，莎拉。 （掌聲）
