Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_jones_one_woman_five_characters_and_a_sex_lesson_from_the_future	"This is a play called ""Sell/Buy/Date."" It's my first since ""Bridge and Tunnel,"" which I did on Broadway, and this one, I — thank you — I've excerpted it just for you, so here we go. Right. Class, let's be absolutely certain all electronic devices are switched off before we begin. So class, hopefully you'll recognize what you just heard me say as the — ? Very good, the cellular phone announcement. Right? This was also known as a mobile phone. So you'll remember, people of that era would have had an external electronic device, right, something like this, and they all would have carried one of these around with them, and amongst their biggest fears was the sheer mortification that one of these might ring at some inopportune moment. Right? So a bit of trivia about that era for you. (Laughter) So the format of today's class is I will be presenting multiple BERT modules today from that period in history, right, so starting circa 2016. And remember, this was the very first year of the BERT program. So we've got quite a few of these to get through. Bear in mind, I will be living into various different bodies, different ages, also what were then called races, or ethnic groups, as you'll remember from Unit 1. And — (Laughter) — and along the gender continuum, I will be living into males as well. It was quite binary at that time. (Laughter) Also, don't forget, we are reading the book module for next week's focus on gender. Now, I know some of you have requested the book in pill form. I know people still believe ingesting it is better for retention, but since we are trying to experience what our forebears did, right, let's please just consider doing the actual ocular reading, okay? And also, how many people have your emotional shunts engaged? Right. Please toggle them off. Okay? I know it's challenging, but I want you to be able to feel the entire natural emo range, all right? It is essential to this part of the syllabus. Yes, Macy? All right. I understand. If you're unwilling to — All right, well, we can discuss that after class. All right, we will discuss your concerns. Just relax. Nobody's died and gone to composting. Okay. After class. Okay? After class. Let's just get started, okay. This first subject identified as a middle-class homemaker. Remember, these early modules in these people's full identities were protected, and this allowed them to speak more freely on our topic, which for many of them was taboo. Okay honey, now, I'm ready when you are. No, sweetheart, I said, I'm ready when you are. I'm freezing. It's like a meat locker in here in this recording studio. I should have brought a shmata. All this fancy technology but they can't afford heat. What is he saying? I can't hear you! I can't hear you through the glass, honey! There you are in my ear. Oh, you can hear me? The whole time. Oh, yes, I am a little chilly. Yes, oh the cold is for the machines, the new technology. Okay. Yes, now remind me again, you're recording not only my voice but my feelings and my memories? Right. Yes, BERT, yes, I read about it. Bio-Empathetic Resonant Technology. Right, right, so people will be able to feel my experience and my memory? Okay. No, right, I'm ready. I just thought you were going to give me a test to see how my memory's doing. I was going to tell you you're too late, it's already bad news. No, no, go ahead, honey. Oh, that's the first question? What do I think of prostitution? Are you soliciting me, young man? I've heard of May-December romances, but what are you, about 20 years old? Eighteen? Eighteen years. I think I have candies in my purse older than 18 years old. (Laughter) I'm teasing you, sweetheart. No, I'm comfortable with any question. Sure. So about the prostitution — oh, sex worker, sex worker. No, just in my day, they called it prostitution, not sex work. Oh, because it includes pornography also? Okay. No, well, I guess when I was a girl, we didn't really have a name for that either. We would have said dirty magazines, I suppose, or dirty movies. Well, it's not like what you have with the Internet. No, well, I don't mind sharing. My late husband and I, we were a very romantic couple. Lots of tenderness, you understand. Well, as you get older, you know, at one point I thought my husband might be helped by using some of the pills men can take, but he wasn't interested in those, so I thought, what about maybe watching an adult movie on the Internet? Just for inspiration, you understand. Well, at the time, neither of us were very good on the computer, so usually, if we needed help with the Internet, we would just call our children or our grandchildren, but obviously, in this case, that wasn't an option, so I thought, I'll have a look myself, just to see. How difficult could it be? You search for certain key words and you look — Oh wow is right, young man. You can't imagine what I saw. Well, first of all, I was just trying to find, you know, couples, normal couples making love, but this, so many people together at one time. You couldn't tell which part belonged to which body. How they even got the cameras to capture some of this, I couldn't tell you. But the one thing they didn't capture was making love. There was lots of making of something, but they took the love part right out of it, you know, the fun. It was all very extreme, you know? Like you would say, with the extreme sports. Lots of endurance, but never tenderness. So anyway, needless to say, that was $19.95 I'll never get back again, but it only showed up on the credit card as ""entertainment services,"" so my husband was never the wiser, and after all of that, well, you could say it turned out he didn't need the extra inspiration after all. Right, so next subject is a young woman — (Applause) — Next subject, class, is a young woman called Bella, a university student interviewed in 2016 during what was called an Intro to Feminist Porn class as part of her major in sex work at a college in the Bay Area. (Laughter) Yeah, I just want to, like, get a recording of, like, you guys recording me, like a meta recording, or whatever. It's just like this whole experience is just, like, really amazing, and I'd like to capture that for, like, Instagram and my Tumblr. So, like, hi guys, it's me, Bella, and I am, like, being interviewed right now for this, like, really amazing Bio-Empathetic Resonance Technology, which is, like, basically where they are, like, recording, as you can see from these, whatever, like, electrodes, the formation of, like, neuropeptides in my hippocampus, or whatever. They will later be able to reconstitute these as, like, my own actual memory, like actual experiences, so other people can, like, actually feel what I'm feeling right now. Okay. Okay. So, like, hello, BERT person of the future who is experiencing me. This is what it feels like to be, like, a college freshman, and also the, like, headache that you are experiencing through me is the, like, residual effect of the Jell-O shots which I had last night at the bi-weekly feminist pole dancing party which I cohost on Wednesdays. It's called ""Don't Get All Pole-emical"" — (Laughter) — and it's in Beekman Hall, and, what else, like, non-Jell-O shots are also available for vegans, and, oh, okay, yeah, totally, yeah, we should also focus on your questions also. So for your record, I am, like, a sex work studies major but minoring in social media with a concentration on notable YouTube memes. (Laughter) Yes, well, of course, like, I consider myself to be, like, obviously, like, a feminist. I was named for Bella Abzug, who was, like, a famous, like, feminist from history, and, like, also I feel that it is, like, important to, like, represent women who are, like, sex-positive feminists. What is sex-negative? Well, like, I guess I would ask, like, what do you think sex-negative is? (Laughter) Yeah, because, like, the terms that we use are, like, so important, because, like, we call it sex work because it helps people understand that, like, it's work, and, like, you know, just like there are, like, healthcare providers and, like, insurance providers, like, we think of these workers as, like, sex care providers. Yeah, but like, I don't think of myself like, providing direct sex care services per se as, like, being a requirement for me to be, like, an advocate. Like, I support other women's right to choose it voluntarily, like, if they enjoy it. Yeah, but, like, I see myself going forward as more likely, like, protecting sex workers', like, legal freedoms and rights. Yeah, so, like, basically, I'm planning on becoming a lawyer. Right, class. (Laughter) (Applause) So these next two modules are also circa 2016. One subject is an Irishwoman with a particularly noteworthy relationship to this issue, but first will be a West Indian woman, a self-described escort who was recorded at a sex workers' rights rally and parade. She was interviewed whilst marching in full carnival headdress and very little else. All right, you want me to start talking now. Yeah, I told you, you can put those wires anywhere you want to as long as it don't get in the way. Yeah, no, but, tell me again what the name of — BERT? BERT. Yeah, I was telling you, you know, I think I have in all my time I have had at least one client with that name, so this won't be the first time I had BERT all over me. Oh, I'm sorry, but you got to get into the spirit of it if you're going to interview me. All right? You can say it. No justice, no piece! No justice, no piece! But you see the sign? You get it? P-I-E-C-E. No justice, no piece of us. You understand? Right, so that's the part where I was telling you is that when I first came to this country, I worked every job I could find. I was a nanny; I was a home care attendant for all these different old people, and then I said, child, if I have to touch another white man's backside, I might as well get paid a lot more money for it than this, you understand? Pshh, you know how hard it is being a domestic worker? Some of these men, they're heavy. You have to pick them up and flip them over. Now, I let them pick me up and flip me over, you understand? Well, you have to have a sense of humor about it, that's what I think. No, but see, listen, you find me somebody who don't hate some part of their job. I mean, there's a lot of things about this job that I hate, but the money is not one of them, and I will tell you, as long as this is the best possibility for me to make real money, I am going to be Jamaican-No-Fakin' if that's what they want to call me. No, I'm not even from Jamaica. That's how they market me. My family is from Trinidad and the Virgin Islands. They don't know what I do, but you know what? My children, they know that their school fees are paid, they have their books and their computer, and this way, I know that they have a chance. So I'm not going to tell you that what I do, it's easy, I'm not going to tell you that I feel — what's that you said, liberated? But I'm going to tell you that I feel paid. Right. (Applause) Thanks, that's lovely, and just the cup of tea, love, and just a splash of the whiskey. It's perfect, that's grand. Just a drop more. A splash. Perfect. What was your name? Peter? Is that right, so, Peter? Right. So that, that is the unique part of it for me, right, is that I ended up in both, first in the convent, and then in the prostitution after. That's right. (Laughter) So one woman at the university here in Dublin, she wrote about me. She said, Maureen Fitzroy is the living embodiment of the whore-virgin dichotomy. Right? (Laughter) Doesn't it sound like something you need to go into hospital? Well, I've got this terrible dichotomy. Doesn't it. Right. Well, for me though, it was, as a girl, it started with me dad. I mean, half the time, when he spoke to us, it was just a sort of tell us we were all useless rotten idiots and we had no morals, that type of thing. And I certainly didn't do myself any favors. By the time I was 16, I had started messing about with this older fella, and he wanted it to be our little secret, and I did as I was told, didn't I, and when that got back to me dad, he had me sent straightaway to the convent. Well no, that older fella, he would still come to find me in the convent. Yeah, he'd leave me notes tucked into the holes in the brick at the back of the charity shop so we could meet. And he'd tell me how he's leaving his wife, and I believed him, until I got pregnant. I did, Peter, and I left him a note about it in our special place there, and I never did hear from him again. No, I gave it up for adoption so it could have a decent life, and then they wouldn't let me back into the convent. No, my one sister Virginia gave me a fiver for the coach to Dublin, and that's how I ended up here. Well, surprise, surprise, I fell in love with another fella much older than me, and I always say I was just so happy because he didn't drink, I married the bastard. Well, he didn't drink, but he did have just the wee heroin problem, didn't he, and — That's right, and before I knew it, he was the one who turned me on to the prostitution, my own husband. He had me supporting the both of us. I was 18. Well, it wasn't Pretty Woman, I can tell you that. That Julia Roberts, if she'd ever had to sleep with a man to put a few pounds in her pocket, I don't think she'd ever have made that film. Well, for your record, my opinion of the legalization, I'd say I'm against it. I just, I don't care what these young girls say. You know, living like that, you're just lost, and, you know, I'm 63 years old. I'm still trying to find who I am. You know, I never was a wife or a nun, or a prostitute even, really, not really. Nobody ever asked who I wanted to be. They just told me, and if you legalize it, then you're really telling these girls, ""Go on and get lost for a living,"" and a lot of them, they'll do as they're told. All right, so four perspectives from four quite — (Applause) — four quite different voices there, right? One woman saying sex itself is natural but the sex industry seems to mechanize or industrialize it. Then the second woman considered sex work to be empowering, liberating, and feminist, though she, herself, notably, did not seem keen to do it. The third woman, who actually was a so-called sex worker did not agree that it was liberating but she wanted the right to the economic empowerment, and then we hear the fourth woman saying not only prostitution itself but proscribed roles for women in general prevented her from ever finding who she was, right? So another fact most people did not know was the average age of an at-risk girl being introduced to the sex industry was 12 or 13. Also consider that the age when all girls in that society first became exposed to sexualized images of women was quite a bit earlier, right? This was a doll called Barbie, right? I initially thought she was an educational tool for anorexia prevention — (Laughter) — but actually she was considered by many to be a wholesome symbol of femininity, and often young girls began what was called dieting. Remember this? This was restricting food intake on purpose by the age of six, and defining themselves based on attractiveness by around that same time. Right? Yes? Right, Bradley, okay, excellent point. So there was a lucrative market in that society in convincing all people they had to look a certain way to even have a sex life, right? But girls, especially, were expected to be ""sexy"" while avoiding being perceived as ""sluts"" for being sexual. Right? So there's that shame piece we've heard about. Yes. Valerie, right? Okay, very good. Of course, men were having sex as well, but you'll remember from the reading, what were male sluts called? Very good, they were called men. (Laughter) (Applause) So not easy living in a world like that, right? Though it was not all bad news either. Most women in the early 2000s considered themselves empowered, and men generally felt they were also evolved in this area, and, in fact, most people would have been aware of issues like human trafficking, for example, but they would have seen that as quite separate from more recreational adult entertainment. And so we'll just very briefly, class — we don't have a lot of time — we'll just very briefly hear from a man on our topic at this stage. So this next subject was interviewed on the night of his bachelor party. Dude, can you, all right, can you just keep it down? I'm trying to talk to BERT right now. Oh, your name's not BERT. BERT's the name of the, oh, all right. No, no, no, totally, it's totally fine. I'm mostly sober, so I just want to be helpful. Yeah, and I totally believe in causes, yeah, like, all that stuff. (Laughter) And actually, I'm wearing Toms right now. Yeah, Toms, like, the shoes, like, you buy a pair and then a kid in Africa gets clean water. Yeah. Totally. But what was the question again? Sorry. Of course I believe in women's rights. I'm marrying a woman. (Laughter) No, but I mean, like, just because I'm in a strip club parking lot doesn't mean that I'm, like, a sexist or whatever. My fiancee is totally amazing, she's totally a strong girl, woman, smart woman, like, the whole thing. Yeah, she knows I'm here. She's probably at a strip club herself right now, like, as a joke, same as me. My best man, I told him he could surprise me, and he thought this would be hilarious, but this is not something. Yeah, we all went to B school together. Wharton. (Laughter) Yeah, so, dude, can you guys — All right, but it's my bachelor party, and I can spend it in the parking lot with Anderson Cooper if I want to. All right, I'll see you in there. All right, okay, so Anderson, so, like, first of all, stripping, but then, like, all the other things you're talking about, prostitution and all that stuff, that's, like, not the same thing at all. You know? Like, you keep calling it the sex industry or whatever, but it's like, if the girl wants to be an exotic dancer and she's 18, like, that's her right. Whoa, whoa, I hear what you're saying, but I just feel like people, they just want to make it seem like all dudes are just, like, predators, that we would just automatically go to a prostitute, or whatever. Even, like, when I pledged, you know, like when I rushed my fraternity. My brothers who I'm close to, those guys, they're all like me. We're just normal people, but, like, there's this myth that you must be that guy who is kind of an asshole, and like, all bros before hos or whatever. And actually, like, bros before hos, it doesn't mean like what it sounds like. It's actually just like a joking way of saying that you care about your brothers and you put them first. Yeah, but, you can't blame the media, either. I mean, like, if you go watch ""Hangover 2,"" and you think that's an instruction manual for your life, like, I don't know what to tell you. You know? You don't watch ""Bourne Identity"" and go drive your car over a gondola in Venice. (Laughter) Well, yeah, okay, like, if you're a little kid or whatever, of course it's different, but — Yeah, all right, I remember one thing like that. I was at this kid's house one time playing GTA, uh, Grand Theft Auto? Dude, are you from Canada? (Laughter) So, like, whatever, with Grand Theft Auto, you're this kid, like, you're this guy walking around or whatever, and you can basically, like, the more cops you kill, the more points you get, and stuff like that. But also, you can find prostitutes and obviously you can do sexual stuff with them, but you can, like, kill them and take your money back. Yeah, this kid, I remember he ran over a couple of them a few times with his car and he got all these points. We were, like, 10, I think. It felt pretty terrible, actually. No, I don't think I said anything, I just finished playing and went home. All right class, so then there were men who had more than just a passing relationship to this issue. (Laughter) The next subject described himself as a reformed and remorseful pimp turned motivational speaker, life coach and therapist, but if you want to know more about him, you'll have to come to the entire play. Thank you so much, you beautiful TED audience. I will see you for ""Sell/Buy/Date."" (Applause)"	這戲劇叫「賣/買/日」。是我繼「橋梁和隧道」後的作品，而這次，感謝大家，我為各位擷取了一段，那我們開始吧！ 同學們，在我們開始之前，先確定所有電子設備都已經關機。大家應該知道我指的是...非常好，就是請把手機關機，也就是所謂的移動電話。大家要記得那個年代的人，會去買一種電子設備，長得像這樣，然後隨身攜帶，而且最令他們害怕的，就是手機在不對的時機響起。稍微幫大家複習一下那個年代。(笑聲) 所以今天的課程，我會介紹幾個BERT模組，取自我剛剛說的那個年代，大約是2016年。要記住，BERT計畫也在這年開始，所以我們有不少模組可以用。記住，我會進到不同的身體、不同年齡，還有當時所謂的人種、族群，我們在單元一介紹過的。而且，(笑聲)在整個性別連續集，我可能會變成男生，當時只有男女兩種分類。(笑聲)不要忘了，我們唸的是跟下禮拜，性別有關的書本內容。我知道有些人要求「藥丸式課本」，覺得身體消化以後記憶比較深刻，但因為我們是想體驗先人的生活，所以我們還是試著，用「眼睛」去學習，好嗎？有人現在戴著「情感阻絕器」嗎？那麻煩你們關掉好嗎？我知道這不容易，但我希望你們去感受所有的、自然的情緒。這是這門課很重要的環節。有問題嗎，梅西？好我知道了，如果你不想...沒關係我們下課再談...好，我們再討論，放輕鬆，不會有人死了拿去做肥料。沒事，下課再說好嗎？我們還是趕快開始吧。第一個受訪者是中產階級的主婦。要記得這些早期的樣本，受測者的身份是保密的，他們才能暢所欲言，畢竟當時有人視言論自由為大忌。 喔，親愛的，你好了就開始吧。不是，親愛的，我說，你好了就開始。快冷死了。這裡冷得像冷凍肉櫃。我應該帶一件毯子來的。搞這麼多高科技，結果連個暖氣都沒有。在說什麼？我聽不到喔！我隔著玻璃聽不到你！喔，聽到你的聲音了。喔，你聽得到我啊？一直都有聽到。對啦，我覺得有點冷。冷氣是怕機器過熱啊？高科技嘛，沒事。你再說一次，你除了在錄我的聲音，也錄了感覺和記憶，是吧？BERT，對，我有印象，全名是「生物感知情緒共鳴」。沒問題，清楚了。所以其他人可以藉此，感受我的經歷和記憶。沒問題，我準備好了。我以為你要測我的記憶力，正要告訴你別忙了，我記憶力超差。沒關係，繼續吧孩子。 喔，第一題是這個啊，「我對賣淫有什麼想法？」你在調戲我嗎，小子？我是聽過「老少配」，但你才幾歲，20嗎？18？才18歲啊。我那個年紀好像還在吃糖吧。(笑聲)我在鬧你啦，年輕人。我不會覺得不舒服。所以關於賣淫...喔，要叫「性工作者」。我們以前沒有「性工作」這個說法。喔，所以拍A片也算？知道了。我只是記得我年輕的時候，好像也不會這樣說。頂多說黃色雜誌、三級片之類的。當然跟現在網路上的不能比。沒差，我不介意講這個。我老公過世前和我非常恩愛。我們過得很幸福，你知道的。但人也會老，我開始覺得，他需要吃點威而鋼助興，但他不想碰這些。所以我想，不然在網路上找些A片好了，搞不好會有些「靈感」。當然我們都不太會用電腦，通常我們要上網的話，就叫兒女或孫子、孫女來幫忙，但顯然這次不能這樣。那我只好自己試試看，反正只是...看個片嘛，能有多難？把關鍵字打進去一看，喔，我嚇了一跳，你想像不到那個的畫面。首先呢，我只是想找兩個人的、一般情侶在做愛那種。結果呢，跑出來的是一群人一起。你都不知道哪塊肉是誰身上的。我甚至不知道攝影機怎麼有辦法拍到這些畫面。但他們唯一沒拍到的就是「做愛」。他們是在「做」些什麼沒錯，但不包含愛，這才是重點。看起來很「極限」你知道嗎？就是「極限運動」的那種「極限」。是很持久，但完全沒有愛。更不用說我白花了19.95塊美金，但信用卡帳單只會寫「娛樂支出」，所以我老公一直被蒙在鼓裡，一直到...嗯可以說是，一直到他踏進棺材都不知道。 好的，下個受訪者是一名年輕女性。(掌聲)下個受訪者，是叫做貝拉的年輕女孩，在2016年受訪時是大學學生，在「女性主義成人片入門」的課堂上，在女性主義的大本營，主修「性工作研究」。(笑聲) 我也想要稍微錄一下，就像你們也在拍我。像幕後花絮。這次的經驗，真的非常難得。想說拍下來，上傳到我的Instagram和Tumblr。嗨大家，我是貝拉，我現在正在接受採訪，是一項新技術叫「生物感知情緒共鳴」。基本上他們呢，如你所見，透過這些電極之類的，記錄我的海馬迴，裡面的神經活動什麼的。之後他們就可以重新建構，我的記憶、我的感受，其他人就可以，知道我現在的感覺。之類的，就是這樣。 哈囉，未來某個透過BERT，正在感受我的人你好。這就是當大學新鮮人的感覺，然後你現在可能有點頭痛，可能是因為我昨天，吃太多酒果凍所以宿醉，我昨天參加一周兩次的女性主義鋼管舞派對，我是禮拜三的主辦人。主題是「不要太嗆辣」。(笑聲)地點是在畢克曼廳，然後還有什麼...我們也提供非果凍式的酒給素食者。還有...喔當然，我們回到你的問題。沒錯，你也知道， 我主修「性工作研究」，副修「社群媒體」，主要研究YouTube的文化傳播現象。(笑聲)喔當然，我覺得我本人，很明顯就是女性主義者。我跟貝拉阿布朱格同名，她是歷史上有名的，女性主義者。然後我覺得，替女性發聲很重要，尤其我們「性積極女性主義者」。你問我什麼是「性消極」？嗯，那我就想問你，你覺得「性消極」是什麼？(笑聲)其實這些用詞很重要，我們說「性工作」就是為了讓一般人知道那是「工作」。就像醫護人員提供醫療，保險業者提供保險，我們覺得這些工作者，也只是在提供「性照護」。當然我不覺得，我必須要去從事性工作，才能幫性工作者講話。我是幫其他女性，捍衛自由選擇的權利，如果她們樂在其中。所以我覺得自己比較像是，想去保障性工作者的法律上的自由和權利。所以我基本上會去當律師。 好的，同學們。(笑聲)(掌聲)接下來的兩個人也是2016年左右錄的。其中一名愛爾蘭女性，跟這次的議題切身相關。但我們先看另一名來自加勒比海的女性，說自己是應召女郎。地點是在一場關於性工作權的示威遊行。她受訪時戴著華麗的嘉年華頭飾，身上只有少少的布料。 好啊，你要我現在說嗎？沒關係，那些線你隨便黏，只要它不會「跑進去」。你再說一次這叫...BERT？叫BERT。我做這行這麼久，不只一個客人叫這個名字，所以這也不是第一次我被BERT「佈滿」全身。抱歉，但如果想採訪我，你要再放開一點。可以嗎？跟著喊！「沒正義，不平靜」你有看懂標語嗎？沒有正義，我們也不幫你「平靜」性慾。懂了吧？ 所以我剛剛是要跟你說的，我剛來到這裡時，去做了每一份我能做的工作。我當過褓姆，也當過看護，照顧一堆老人家。然後我就想，一樣要碰這些白人的下體，我該找個可以賺多點的吧。你懂我的意思嗎？老天，你知道當看護多累嗎？有些人根本過重。還要把他們抱起來再翻身。我現在被他們抱起來翻身，懂嗎？生活要有點幽默感，至少我是這麼認為啦。不然你去問，有誰真的百分之百熱愛自己的工作。當然我也不喜歡我的工作，但我愛它的收入。而且我告訴你，這是我唯一的可能，真的去賺到一點錢。客人以為我是牙買加人，我就是牙買加人。我當然不是，但他們是這樣推銷我的。我的家人在千里達和維京群島。他們不知道我的職業，但又怎樣？我的小孩知道我幫他們付學費，他們買得起課本和電腦，所以我知道他們以後有更多機會。我不會跟你說我的工作內容，沒什麼好說的。我也不想說我的感覺，你說的什麼「被解放」。我只覺得我賺到錢。好的。(掌聲) 謝謝親愛的，給我一杯茶就好，幫我加一點威士忌。太棒了，謝謝，再多倒一些，對，完美。你叫什麼？彼得？我有叫對嗎？彼得？對啊，所以我算是比較特殊的吧。我最後算是都有涉獵，先是在修道院，然後又在妓院。(笑聲)有個在都柏林的女大學生寫到我，她說「莫琳菲茲洛就是既是處女又是妓女的真實案例」，是這樣嗎？(笑聲)聽起來比較需要去看醫師。我如果被這樣歸類，不是嗎？ 我的故事是這樣的，一開始都是我爸。他對我們說的話幾乎一大半，都在罵我們是爛白癡、沒腦沒格調之類的。我也不太反抗。到了我16歲，我跟一個大叔搞上了。他本來說這是我們之間的小秘密，我也很聽話地保密。結果我爸還是知道了，他馬上把我送進修道院。結果呢，那位大叔還是會跑來找我。他會留字條給我，塞在二手店後面磚牆的石縫裡。然後我們就能見面。他跟我說他快跟老婆離婚了，我相信他，直到我懷孕。相信我，彼得，然後我也給他留了字條，我再也沒有他的消息。我把孩子送養了，讓他過好一點的生活。但修道院也不讓我回去了。 我妹給我五塊錢讓我來都柏林，所以我才在這裡。命運弄人啊，我又愛上了一個大叔。本來還沾沾自喜，嫁了一個不喝酒的好老公，後來才知道嫁錯人。 是啊他是不喝酒，但他會吸海洛因。在我發現他吸毒前，他就讓我去賣淫，我的丈夫。他讓我養家。我那年才18歲。你以為會像「麻雀變鳳凰」嗎？如果茱莉亞羅勃茲，是為了幾個臭錢要去睡男人，她才不會拍那部電影。只想跟你說，性工作合法化，我反對。我只是不在乎這些妹妹說的。那樣子過生活非常茫然。我現在已經63歲了，我還在問「我是誰？」我從來不是一名妻子或是修女，甚至妓女，不完全是。沒人問過我想當什麼，我受盡擺佈。如果你讓它合法了，就等於告訴這些妹妹，「去吧，為了生計迷失吧！」然後很多女生，就會受人擺佈。 好的，四個人物從非常...(掌聲)非常不同的角度，對吧？第一個女性說「性」本身很自然，但性產業在圖利、販賣「性」。第二位女性認為，性工作要被「賦權」、解放，但是女性主義者如她，也沒有想去做些什麼。第三位女性，本身就是所謂的性工作者，不同意解放的說法，但她想要被賦予經濟權。至於第四位女性，覺得不只是賣淫這件事，而是我們的社會剝奪了女性去追尋自我價值的角色。 補充一個大家不太知道的訊息，女性被帶入性產業的平均年齡，是12到13歲。 然後幾乎所有的女性，在更小的時候，都接觸到了關於女性的性徵概念。比如說芭比娃娃，對吧？我本來以為她是預防厭食症的教具，(笑聲)結果大部分的人反而，覺得她是女性的「完美」形象，年輕女生會因此節食。還記得節食嗎？就是到了六歲左右，開始刻意限制食物的攝取。大概也是在這個年紀，會用魅力定義自己。 有問題嗎？布萊德利，好問題。因為商機龐大，所以他們想說服大眾，掌控大眾的審美觀，甚至他們的性生活。但特別是女生，在展現性的魅力時，一方面想要「性感」，又不想被說「蕩婦」。我們聽過不少案例。 還有嗎？薇勒麗，說得好。當然，男人也做愛，但你記得上次的講義說，放蕩的男性會被叫？對，還是叫「男人」。(笑聲)(掌聲)想在當年生活不容易啊。當然也不全那麼糟。21世紀初大部分的女性，認為她們被賦權，男性普遍也認為自己有在進步。事實上，大部分的人會關心人口販賣等議題。但他們不會把這些議題，和娛樂性的成人產業聯想在一起。所以我們趕快，同學我們時間不多，我們趕快聽一位男性，對我們今天討論的看法。他在自己的單身派對那晚被訪問。 老兄，不好意思，可以小聲一點嗎？我在跟BERT講話。喔，你不叫BERT。BERT是這個計劃的名稱，知道了。沒事，別擔心，我沒醉。希望我能幫上忙。我完全相信因果報應那套。(笑聲)不瞞你說，我還穿 Toms 。就是 Toms 那個牌子的鞋。就是你買一雙，非洲的孩子就有乾淨的水。對，完全。你剛剛問什麼？抱歉。 我當然相信女人有權利，我正要娶一個。(笑聲)不能這麼說，不能因為我在脫衣舞廳的停車場，就說我歧視女性之類的。我未婚妻就很棒，完全是很堅強的女性、又聰明，就是很完美。 她知道我來這。她自己可能也在另一家吧，就好玩嘛，朋友辦的。 我跟我伴郎說，他可以準備一些驚喜，他可能覺得這樣很好玩吧，但這其實沒什麼。對，他是我商學院的同學。華頓商學院。(笑聲) 欸你們那邊...但今天我最大。我就是想在停車場被安德森庫柏訪問。好啦我馬上進去。 好的，大記者，首先，關於脫衣舞。但那跟其他你說的，賣淫那類的不能相提並論。就像你一直說是性產業，但如果有個女生就是愛跳呢？而且如果她成年了，這是她的自由。 我有聽到你說的，只是覺得，有人搞得好像男人都是獵食者，會自動去獵捕妓女什麼的。連我在起誓的時候，兄弟會的那個儀式。跟我很好的哥兒們，我們都不是那種人，我們很普通，但不知道為什麼，就一定要裝得很man，說什麼不見色忘友之類的。當然說不見色忘友，不是說不准談戀愛。只是想換個方式，要你關心你的兄弟，而且把他們放在重要的位置。 而且你也不能怪媒體。比如說你去看「醉後大丈夫2」，然後你覺得那就是你該過的生活，那我還有什麼好說的？懂我意思嗎？你不會看完「神鬼認證」，就去威尼斯把車開上纜車頂。(笑聲) 當然如果你是小孩子什麼的，那就另當別論，可是， 好，比如說我記得，我記得小時候玩 GTA。就是「俠盜獵車手」啊。 你加拿大來的喔？(笑聲) 隨便啦，就是我們在玩，你就是電玩的主角，在裡面晃來晃去，基本上你殺越多警察，就越高分這樣。當然裡面也有妓女，所以你也可以去嫖妓。但是你也可以完事後殺了她們把錢拿回來。我記得我朋友有幾次用車去輾她們，然後得了不少分。我們那時候才10歲吧。其實感覺不太舒服。我記得我沒說什麼，我玩完之後就回家了。 好的同學們，我們還有更多跟這個議題，更切身相關的男性受訪者。(笑聲)下一位受訪者形容自己是，當過皮條客、洗心革面的心靈導師、人生導師和治療師。但如果想聽他的故事，就要到戲院來看囉。 非常感謝，你們是最棒的 TED 聽眾。我們「賣/買/日」見。 (掌聲)
