Talk	en	zh-tw
sarah_parcak_hunting_for_peru_s_lost_civilizations_with_satellites	"In July of 1911, a 35-year-old Yale graduate and professor set out from his rainforest camp with his team. After climbing a steep hill and wiping the sweat from his brow, he described what he saw beneath him. He saw rising from the dense rainforest foliage this incredible interlocking maze of structures built of granite, beautifully put together. What's amazing about this project is that it was the first funded by National Geographic, and it graced the front cover of its magazine in 1912. This professor used state-of-the-art photography equipment to record the site, forever changing the face of exploration. The site was Machu Picchu, discovered and explored by Hiram Bingham. When he saw the site, he asked, ""This is an impossible dream. What could it be?"" So today, 100 years later, I invite you all on an incredible journey with me, a 37-year-old Yale graduate and professor. (Cheers) We will do nothing less than use state-of-the-art technology to map an entire country. This is a dream started by Hiram Bingham, but we are expanding it to the world, making archaeological exploration more open, inclusive, and at a scale simply not previously possible. This is why I am so excited to share with you all today that we will begin the 2016 TED Prize platform in Latin America, more specifically Peru. (Applause) Thank you. We will be taking Hiram Bingham's impossible dream and turning it into an amazing future that we can all share in together. So Peru doesn't just have Machu Picchu. It has absolutely stunning jewelry, like what you can see here. It has amazing Moche pottery of human figures. It has the Nazca Lines and amazing textiles. So as part of the TED Prize platform, we are going to partnering with some incredible organizations, first of all with DigitalGlobe, the world's largest provider of high-resolution commercial satellite imagery. They're going to be helping us build out this amazing crowdsourcing platform they have. Maybe some of you used it with the MH370 crash and search for the airplane. Of course, they'll also be providing us with the satellite imagery. National Geographic will be helping us with education and of course exploration. As well, they'll be providing us with rich content for the platform, including some of the archival imagery like you saw at the beginning of this talk and some of their documentary footage. We've already begun to build and plan the platform, and I'm just so excited. So here's the cool part. My team, headed up by Chase Childs, is already beginning to look at some of the satellite imagery. Of course, what you can see here is 0.3-meter data. This is site called Chan Chan in northern Peru. It dates to 850 AD. It's a really amazing city, but let's zoom in. This is the type and quality of data that you all will get to see. You can see individual structures, individual buildings. And we've already begun to find previously unknown sites. What we can say already is that as part of the platform, you will all help discover thousands of previously unknown sites, like this one here, and this potentially large one here. Unfortunately, we've also begun to uncover large-scale looting at sites, like what you see here. So many sites in Peru are threatened, but the great part is that all of this data is going to be shared with archaeologists on the front lines of protecting these sites. So I was just in Peru, meeting with their Minister of Culture as well as UNESCO. We'll be collaborating closely with them. Just so you all know, the site is going to be in both English and Spanish, which is absolutely essential to make sure that people in Peru and across Latin America can participate. Our main project coprincipal investigator is the gentleman you see here, Dr. Luis Jaime Castillo, professor at Catholic University. As a respected Peruvian archaeologist and former vice-minister, Dr. Castillo will be helping us coordinate and share the data with archaeologists so they can explore these sites on the ground. He also runs this amazing drone mapping program, some of the images of which you can see behind me here and here. And this data will be incorporated into the platform, and also he'll be helping to image some of the new sites you help find. Our on-the-ground partner who will be helping us with education, outreach, as well as site preservation components, is the Sustainable Preservation Initiative, led by Dr. Larry Coben. Some of you may not be aware that some of the world's poorest communities coexist with some of the world's most well-known archaeological sites. What SPI does is it helps to empower these communities, in particular women, with new economic approaches and business training. So it helps to teach them to create beautiful handicrafts which are then sold on to tourists. This empowers the women to treasure their cultural heritage and take ownership of it. I had the opportunity to spend some time with 24 of these women at a well-known archaeological site called Pachacamac, just outside Lima. These women were unbelievably inspiring, and what's great is that SPI will help us transform communities near some of the sites that you help to discover. Peru is just the beginning. We're going to be expanding this platform to the world, but already I've gotten thousands of emails from people all across the world — professors, educators, students, and other archaeologists — who are so excited to help participate. In fact, they're already suggesting amazing places for us to help discover, including Atlantis. I don't know if we're going to be looking for Atlantis, but you never know. So I'm just so excited to launch this platform. It's going to be launched formally by the end of the year. And I have to say, if what my team has already discovered in the past few weeks are any indication, what the world discovers is just going to be beyond imagination. Make sure to hold on to your alpacas. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	在 1911 年的七月，一個 35 歲的耶魯校友及教授和他的團隊一起從他的熱帶雨林營地出發。他在爬過一座陡峭的山擦掉額頭上的汗水之後，這樣形容所看到的腳下的景象：他看到在茂密的熱帶雨林樹葉之間有一個驚人的互相緊鎖的迷宮，它是由花崗岩完美地組合在一起而建成的。 這個項目驚人之處在於它最初由國家地理贊助，並且在 1912 年登上雜誌封面。這個教授用最先進的攝影技巧去拍攝這個遺址，從此改變了勘察的方式。 這個遺址是馬丘比丘古城，它是由海勒姆賓厄姆發現並勘察。當他看到遺址的時候，他問，“這是一個難以置信的夢。怎麼可能是真的呢？” 那麼今天，100 年之後，我邀請你們和我這一個37 歲的耶魯校友以及教授，開始一段難以置信的旅程。 （歡呼） 我們除了最先進的技術，不會使用任何別的東西去繪製整個國家的地圖。這是由海勒姆賓厄姆開始的夢想，但我們將把它擴展到全世界，讓考古學勘察發展得更開放、更廣闊，到達一個過去完全不可能的規模。 這就是為什麼我在今天這麼激動地和你們分享：我們將在拉丁美洲更確切地說是在祕魯，開始 2016 TED 大獎平台。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 我們將帶著海勒姆賓厄姆不可能的夢想把它變成令人驚奇的未來讓我們可以一起分享。 祕魯不僅有馬丘比丘古城。正如你們在這裡看到的，它還有絕對令人驚嘆的珠寶。它有令人驚奇的來自莫切文明的人像陶瓷。它有納斯卡線和美妙的紡織品。作為 TED 大獎平台的一部分，我們將和一些不可思議的組織合作，首先是數字地球公司，它是全球最大的高分辨率商業衛星圖像提供者。他們將要幫助我們打造一個令人驚奇的群眾外包平台。也許你們中的一些人曾經用它調查 MH370 事件以及搜尋這飛機。當然，他們也會為我們提供衛星圖像。國家地理雜誌將幫助我們培訓和勘察。同樣，他們也會為我們提供平台需要的充足內容，包括正如你們在這個演講一開始看到的一些存檔圖像，還有他們的一些紀錄片素材。我們已經開始建立和規劃這個平台，我太興奮了。 接下來是很酷的消息。我的由蔡司蔡爾茲帶領的團隊，正開始研究一些衛星圖像。當然，你在這裡能看到的是 0.3 米長的數據。這是一個在北祕魯叫做昌昌城的遺址。它可以追溯到公元 850 年，它真是一個令人驚奇的城市，但是讓我們放大它。這是你們以後都能看到的數據的種類和數量。你可以看到單獨的結構，單獨的建築。我們已經開始尋找以前沒有發現的遺址。我們能說的就是，作為平台的一分子，你會幫助我們發現成千的未知遺址，就像這個，還有這個更大的。不幸的是，我們也已經開始發現遺址大規模被盜，就像你在這裡看到的。祕魯的大量遺址受到威脅，但好消息在於所有數據都能在保護它們的前線的考古學家之間被分享。 我之前在祕魯，和他們的文化部部長還有聯合國教科文組織部長見面。我們將和他們緊密合作。只是讓大家知道，這個網址將同時使用英文和西班牙文，這能顯著地保證祕魯和拉丁美洲的人都能參與。我們項目的主要合作勘察者是這位先生，路易斯·卡斯蒂略海梅博士，他是天主教大學的教授。作為備受尊敬的祕魯考古學家和前任副部長，卡斯蒂略博士將會幫助我們與考古學家合作以及共享數據，所以他們能夠實地勘察這些。他同時也在進行這個驚人的無人機繪圖程序，你們可以在我身後看到其中一些圖像。這些數據將被納入這平台，而且他將會幫助繪製大家定位的新遺址的圖像。 我們在地面工作的夥伴，將會幫助我們教育，推廣，以及建立遺址的組成成分的夥伴，是由拉里·科本博士帶領的可持續發展遺址保護計畫。你們也許不會注意到世界上一些最貧窮的社區和世界上一些最著名的考古遺址共存。可持續發展遺址保護計畫的工作是幫助這些社區賦權，特別是婦女權益，讓她們學習新的經濟手段和商業培訓。它幫助教他們創作精美的手工藝品然後可以賣給遊客。這讓婦女珍視她們的文化遺產並且真正擁有它。我有過和 24 個這樣的婦女在利馬城外的著名考古遺址帕查卡馬克共處的機會。這些婦女不可置信地激勵人心，更好的是，可持續發展遺址保護計畫將幫助我們轉變這些你幫助發掘的遺址附近的社區。 祕魯只是一切的開端。我們將會把這平台拓展到全世界，但我已經收到了成千的電子郵件它們來自世界各地的人——教授，教育家，學生還有其他考古學家——他們都十分希望能幫助發掘。事實上，他們已經建議我們去異乎尋常的地方，包括亞特蘭蒂斯。我不知道我們是否會去亞特蘭蒂斯，但你永遠不知道會發生什麼。 我只是因為發佈這個平台太過激動。它將在年底前正式發佈。我必須說，假如我的團隊在過去幾週發掘的東西只是先兆，未來能在整個世界發掘的東西將超乎各位的想像。請確保你坐穩你的羊駝了。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
