Talk	en	zh-tw
scott_dinsmore_how_to_find_work_you_love	"Wow, what an honor. I always wondered what this would feel like. So eight years ago, I got the worst career advice of my life. I had a friend tell me, ""Don't worry about how much you like the work you're doing now. It's all about just building your resume."" And I'd just come back from living in Spain for a while, and I'd joined this Fortune 500 company. I thought, ""This is fantastic. I'm going to have big impact on the world."" I had all these ideas. And within about two months, I noticed at about 10am every morning I had this strange urge to want to slam my head through the monitor of my computer. I don't know if anyone's ever felt that. And I noticed pretty soon after that that all the competitors in our space had already automated my job role. And this is right about when I got this sage advice to build up my resume. Well, as I'm trying to figure out what two-story window I'm going to jump out of and change things up, I read some altogether different advice from Warren Buffett, and he said, ""Taking jobs to build up your resume is the same as saving up sex for old age."" (Laughter) And I heard that, and that was all I needed. Within two weeks, I was out of there, and I left with one intention: to find something that I could screw up. That's how tough it was. I wanted to have some type of impact. It didn't matter what it was. And I found pretty quickly that I wasn't alone: it turns out that over 80 percent of the people around don't enjoy their work. I'm guessing this room is different, but that's the average that Deloitte has done with their studies. So I wanted to find out, what is it that sets these people apart, the people who do the passionate, world-changing work, that wake up inspired every day, and then these people, the other 80 percent who lead these lives of quiet desperation. So I started to interview all these people doing this inspiring work, and I read books and did case studies, 300 books altogether on purpose and career and all this, totally just self-immersion, really for the selfish reason of — I wanted to find the work that I couldn't not do, what that was for me. But as I was doing this, more and more people started to ask me, ""You're into this career thing. I don't like my job. Can we sit down for lunch?"" I'd say, ""Sure."" But I would have to warn them, because at this point, my quit rate was also 80 percent. Of the people I'd sit down with for lunch, 80 percent would quit their job within two months. I was proud of this, and it wasn't that I had any special magic. It was that I would ask one simple question. It was, ""Why are you doing the work that you're doing?"" And so often their answer would be, ""Well, because somebody told me I'm supposed to."" And I realized that so many people around us are climbing their way up this ladder that someone tells them to climb, and it ends up being leaned up against the wrong wall, or no wall at all. The more time I spent around these people and saw this problem, I thought, what if we could create a community, a place where people could feel like they belonged and that it was OK to do things differently, to take the road less traveled, where that was encouraged, and inspire people to change? And that later became what I now call Live Your Legend, which I'll explain in a little bit. But as I've made these discoveries, I noticed a framework of really three simple things that all these different passionate world-changers have in common, whether you're a Steve Jobs or if you're just, you know, the person that has the bakery down the street. But you're doing work that embodies who you are. I want to share those three with you, so we can use them as a lens for the rest of today and hopefully the rest of our life. The first part of this three-step passionate work framework is becoming a self-expert and understanding yourself, because if you don't know what you're looking for, you're never going to find it. And the thing is that no one is going to do this for us. There's no major in university on passion and purpose and career. I don't know how that's not a required double major, but don't even get me started on that. I mean, you spend more time picking out a dorm room TV set than you do you picking your major and your area of study. But the point is, it's on us to figure that out, and we need a framework, we need a way to navigate through this. And so the first step of our compass is finding out what our unique strengths are. What are the things that we wake up loving to do no matter what, whether we're paid or we're not paid, the things that people thank us for? And the Strengths Finder 2.0 is a book and also an online tool. I highly recommend it for sorting out what it is that you're naturally good at. And next, what's our framework or our hierarchy for making decisions? Do we care about the people, our family, health, or is it achievement, success, all this stuff? We have to figure out what it is to make these decisions, so we know what our soul is made of, so that we don't go selling it to some cause we don't give a shit about. And then the next step is our experiences. All of us have these experiences. We learn things every day, every minute about what we love, what we hate, what we're good at, what we're terrible at. And if we don't spend time paying attention to that and assimilating that learning and applying it to the rest of our lives, it's all for nothing. Every day, every week, every month of every year I spend some time just reflecting on what went right, what went wrong, and what do I want to repeat, what can I apply more to my life. And even more so than that, as you see people, especially today, who inspire you, who are doing things where you say ""Oh God, what Jeff is doing, I want to be like him."" Why are you saying that? Open up a journal. Write down what it is about them that inspires you. It's not going to be everything about their life, but whatever it is, take note on that, so over time we'll have this repository of things that we can use to apply to our life and have a more passionate existence and make a better impact. Because when we start to put these things together, we can then define what success actually means to us, and without these different parts of the compass, it's impossible. We end up in the situation — we have that scripted life that everybody seems to be living going up this ladder to nowhere. It's kind of like in Wall Street 2, if anybody saw that, the peon employee asks the big Wall Street banker CEO, ""What's your number? Everyone's got a number, where if they make this money, they'll leave it all."" He says, ""Oh, it's simple. More."" And he just smiles. And it's the sad state of most of the people that haven't spent time understanding what matters for them, who keep reaching for something that doesn't mean anything to us, but we're doing it because everyone said we're supposed to. But once we have this framework together, we can start to identify the things that make us come alive. You know, before this, a passion could come and hit you in the face, or maybe in your possible line of work, you might throw it away because you don't have a way of identifying it. But once you do, you can see something that's congruent with my strengths, my values, who I am as a person, so I'm going to grab ahold of this, I'm going to do something with it, and I'm going to pursue it and try to make an impact with it. And Live Your Legend and the movement we've built wouldn't exist if I didn't have this compass to identify, ""Wow, this is something I want to pursue and make a difference with."" If we don't know what we're looking for, we're never going to find it, but once we have this framework, this compass, then we can move on to what's next — and that's not me up there — doing the impossible and pushing our limits. There's two reasons why people don't do things. One is they tell themselves they can't do them, or people around them tell them they can't do them. Either way, we start to believe it. Either we give up, or we never start in the first place. The things is, everyone was impossible until somebody did it. Every invention, every new thing in the world, people thought were crazy at first. Roger Bannister and the four-minute mile, it was a physical impossibility to break the four-minute mile in a foot race until Roger Bannister stood up and did it. And then what happened? Two months later, 16 people broke the four-minute mile. The things that we have in our head that we think are impossible are often just milestones waiting to be accomplished if we can push those limits a bit. And I think this starts with probably your physical body and fitness more than anything, because we can control that. If you don't think you can run a mile, you show yourself you can run a mile or two, or a marathon, or lose five pounds, or whatever it is, you realize that confidence compounds and can be transferred into the rest of your world. And I've actually gotten into the habit of this a little bit with my friends. We have this little group. We go on physical adventures, and recently, I found myself in a kind of precarious spot. I'm terrified of deep, dark, blue water. I don't know if anyone's ever had that same fear ever since they watched Jaws 1, 2, 3 and 4 like six times when I was a kid. But anything above here, if it's murky, I can already feel it right now. I swear there's something in there. Even if it's Lake Tahoe, it's fresh water, totally unfounded fear, ridiculous, but it's there. Anyway, three years ago I find myself on this tugboat right down here in the San Francisco Bay. It's a rainy, stormy, windy day, and people are getting sick on the boat, and I'm sitting there wearing a wetsuit, and I'm looking out the window in pure terror thinking I'm about to swim to my death. I'm going to try to swim across the Golden Gate. And my guess is some people in this room might have done that before. I'm sitting there, and my buddy Jonathan, who had talked me into it, he comes up to me and he could see the state I was in. And he says, ""Scott, hey man, what's the worst that could happen? You're wearing a wetsuit. You're not going to sink. And If you can't make it, just hop on one of the 20 kayaks. Plus, if there's a shark attack, why are they going to pick you over the 80 people in the water?"" So thanks, that helps. He's like, ""But really, just have fun with this. Good luck."" And he dives in, swims off. OK. Turns out, the pep talk totally worked, and I felt this total feeling of calm, and I think it was because Jonathan was 13 years old. (Laughter) And of the 80 people swimming that day, 65 of them were between the ages of nine and 13. Think how you would have approached your world differently if at nine years old you found out you could swim a mile and a half in 56-degree water from Alcatraz to San Francisco. What would you have said yes to? What would you have not given up on? What would you have tried? As I'm finishing this swim, I get to Aquatic Park, and I'm getting out of the water and of course half the kids are already finished, so they're cheering me on and they're all excited. And I got total popsicle head, if anyone's ever swam in the Bay, and I'm trying to just thaw my face out, and I'm watching people finish. And I see this one kid, something didn't look right. And he's just flailing like this. And he's barely able to sip some air before he slams his head back down. And I notice other parents were watching too, and I swear they were thinking the same thing I was: this is why you don't let nine-year-olds swim from Alcatraz. This was not fatigue. All of a sudden, two parents run up and grab him, and they put him on their shoulders, and they're dragging him like this, totally limp. And then all of a sudden they walk a few more feet and they plop him down in his wheelchair. And he puts his fists up in the most insane show of victory I've ever seen. I can still feel the warmth and the energy on this guy when he made this accomplishment. I had seen him earlier that day in his wheelchair. I just had no idea he was going to swim. I mean, where is he going to be in 20 years? How many people told him he couldn't do that, that he would die if tried that? You prove people wrong, you prove yourself wrong, that you can make little incremental pushes of what you believe is possible. You don't have to be the fastest marathoner in the world, just your own impossibilities, to accomplish those, and it starts with little bitty steps. And the best way to do this is to surround yourself with passionate people. The fastest things to do things you don't think can be done is to surround yourself with people already doing them. There's this quote by Jim Rohn and it says. ""You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with."" And there is no bigger lifehack in the history of the world from getting where you are today to where you want to be than the people you choose to put in your corner. They change everything, and it's a proven fact. In 1898, Norman Triplett did this study with a bunch of cyclists, and he would measure their times around the track in a group, and also individually. And he found that every time the cyclists in the group would cycle faster. And it's been repeated in all kinds of walks of life since then, and it proves the same thing over again, that the people around you matter, and environment is everything. But it's on you to control it, because it can go both ways. With 80 percent of people who don't like the work they do, that means most people around us, not in this room, but everywhere else, are encouraging complacency and keeping us from pursuing the things that matter to us so we have to manage those surroundings. I found myself in this situation — personal example, a couple years ago. Has anyone ever had a hobby or a passion they poured their heart and soul into, unbelievable amount of time, and they so badly want to call it a business, but no one's paying attention and it doesn't make a dime? OK, I was there for four years trying to build this Live Your Legend movement to help people do work that they genuinely cared about and that inspired them, and I was doing all I could, and there were only three people paying attention, and they're all right there: my mother, father and my wife, Chelsea. Thank you guys for the support. (Applause) And this is how badly I wanted it, it grew at zero percent for four years, and I was about to shut it down, and right about then, I moved to San Francisco and started to meet some pretty interesting people who had these crazy lifestyles of adventure, of businesses and websites and blogs that surrounded their passions and helped people in a meaningful way. And one of my friends, now, he has a family of eight, and he supports his whole family with a blog that he writes for twice a week. They just came back from a month in Europe, all of them together. This blew my mind. How does this even exist? And I got unbelievably inspired by seeing this, and instead of shutting it down, I decided, let's take it seriously. And I did everything I could to spend my time, every waking hour possible trying to hound these guys, hanging out and having beers and workouts, whatever it was. And after four years of zero growth, within six months of hanging around these people, the community at Live Your Legend grew by 10 times. In another 12 months, it grew by 160 times. And today over 30,000 people from 158 countries use our career and connection tools on a monthly basis. And those people have made up that community of passionate folks who inspired that possibility that I dreamed of for Live Your Legend so many years back. The people change everything, and this is why — you know, you ask what was going on. Well, for four years, I knew nobody in this space, and I didn't even know it existed, that people could do this stuff, that you could have movements like this. And then I'm over here in San Francisco, and everyone around me was doing it. It became normal, so my thinking went from how could I possibly do this to how could I possibly not. And right then, when that happens, that switch goes on in your head, it ripples across your whole world. And without even trying, your standards go from here to here. You don't need to change your goals. You just need to change your surroundings. That's it, and that's why I love being around this whole group of people, why I go to every TED event I can, and watch them on my iPad on the way to work, whatever it is. Because this is the group of people that inspires possibility. We have a whole day to spend together and plenty more. To sum things up, in terms of these three pillars, they all have one thing in common more than anything else. They are 100 percent in our control. No one can tell you you can't learn about yourself. No one can tell you you can't push your limits and learn your own impossible and push that. No one can tell you you can't surround yourself with inspiring people or get away from the people who bring you down. You can't control a recession. You can't control getting fired or getting in a car accident. Most things are totally out of our hands. These three things are totally on us, and they can change our whole world if we decide to do something about it. And the thing is, it's starting to happen on a widespread level. I just read in Forbes, the US Government reported for the first time in a month where more people had quit their jobs than had been laid off. They thought this was an anomaly, but it's happened three months straight. In a time where people claim it's kind of a tough environment, people are giving a middle finger to this scripted life, the things that people say you're supposed to do, in exchange for things that matter to them and do the things that inspire them. And the thing is, people are waking up to this possibility, that really the only thing that limits possibility now is imagination. That's not a cliché anymore. I don't care what it is that you're into, what passion, what hobby. If you're into knitting, you can find someone who is killing it knitting, and you can learn from them. It's wild. And that's what this whole day is about, to learn from the folks speaking, and we profile these people on Live Your Legend every day, because when ordinary people are doing the extraordinary, and we can be around that, it becomes normal. And this isn't about being Gandhi or Steve Jobs, doing something crazy. It's just about doing something that matters to you, and makes an impact that only you can make. Speaking of Gandhi, he was a recovering lawyer, as I've heard the term, and he was called to a greater cause, something that mattered to him, he couldn't not do. And he has this quote that I absolutely live by. ""First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win."" Everything was impossible until somebody did it. You can either hang around the people who tell you it can't be done and tell you you're stupid for trying, or surround yourself with the people who inspire possibility, the people who are in this room. Because I see it as our responsibility to show the world that what's seen as impossible can become that new normal. And that's already starting to happen. First, do the things that inspire us, so we can inspire other people to do the things that inspire them. But we can't find that unless we know what we're looking for. We have to do our work on ourself, be intentional about that, and make those discoveries. Because I imagine a world where 80 percent of people love the work they do. What would that look like? What would the innovation be like? How would you treat the people around you? Things would start to change. And as we finish up, I have just one question to ask you guys, and I think it's the only question that matters. And it's what is the work you can't not do? Discover that, live it, not just for you, but for everybody around you, because that is what starts to change the world. What is the work you can't not do? Thank you guys. (Applause)"	哇！真榮幸。我老是在想這會是什麼感覺。 八年前，我聽到一段最糟糕的職場建言。有個朋友告訴我，「不要擔心你有多喜歡現在的工作。關鍵還是打造亮眼的履歷。」 那時我才從西班牙搬回來，我在那裡住了一段時間，然後就加入這個《財星》 500 大企業，我心裡想著，「太棒了！我將對這世界產生巨大影響。」我腦子裡充滿了各種想法。然後大概不到兩個月，我就發現每天早上大約十點，我都有一種奇怪的衝動，想一頭撞在電腦螢幕上。我不知道你們是否也有這種感覺。那之後，我很快就注意到辦工室內所有的競爭者都已把我的角色機械化了。就在這個時候，我聽到這個睿智的建議，要打造亮眼履歷。 嗯，就在我盤算著要從二樓的那一扇窗跳下去，試著改變一切時，我讀到華倫·巴菲特一段完全不同的建言，他說：「為了打造亮眼履歷而工作，就像把性生活存起來留到老的時候用一樣！」 （笑聲） 我聽到那段話，知道那就是我要的。兩個星期內我就閃人，我離開時只有一個想法：我要找我能搞砸的東西。就是這麼難。我想要有某種程度的影響力，不管是什麼。 我很快就發現原來我不孤獨：超過 80% 的人不愛他們的工作。我猜在座各位大概不是這樣，但那是德勤會計事務所調查所得的平均值。所以我想找出為什麼有些人不一樣，能作他們熱愛、又能改變世界的工作，每天早上醒來都覺得很有動力，然後其他 80% 的人，他們的人生似乎很悲慘。 所以我開始訪問做有啟發性工作的人，我也讀一些書，作一些個案研究，總共 300 本書，都跟人生的目標、職業有關，這一切都只是想讓自己沉浸其中，真的只為了一個自私的裡由——我想找一份非做不可的工作，為我量身打造的。 但是我在進行這件事的時候，愈來愈多人開始問我，「你現在正在搞這個職業規劃，我不喜歡我的工作。我們可以吃個午餐聊一聊嗎？」我就會說：「當然可以。」但是我都會警告他們，因為到目前為止辭職的機率是 80%。跟我坐下來吃午餐的人，80% 會在兩個月內辭去工作。我對此相當自傲，這不是因為我有什麼特別的魔力。而是因為我會問一個很簡單的問題。就是：「你為什麼做你現在的工作？」他們的答案通常都是：「喔，因為有人說我應該要做。」我領悟到我們身邊有這麼多人都在爬人家說要爬的升遷階梯，但下場是你選錯牆放梯子，或是根本就沒牆！ 我愈花時間與這些人相處看到這個問題，我就想，如果我們能創造一個社群，裡面的人都很有歸屬感，做事的方法不一樣也沒關係，能鼓勵大家少走點冤枉路，還能啟發人作出改變？後來這個變成我現在稱為「活出你的傳奇」，等等我會稍微解釋一下。但是在我發現這些道理的同時，我也注意到有個架構由三個非常簡單的事組成，是有熱情能改變世界的人都有的共通點，無論你是史蒂夫·賈伯斯或只是個，你知道，街上小麵包店的老闆。但是你的工作體現了真正的你。我想跟大家說這三點，所以我們能用這些審視今天餘下的時間，也希望能用在餘生。 熱愛工作架構三步驟的第一步是變成自我專家，了解自己，因為如果你不知道你在尋找什麼，你永遠都不可能找到它。而且重點是，沒有人會幫我們找。大學裡沒有「熱情、目標、職業」這種主修科系。我不懂為什麼這不是必選的雙主修，不過我還是別談這個，不然沒完沒了。你選放在宿舍的電視機所花的時間，比你選主修及研究領域的時間還多。但重點是，這是我們要搞清楚的，我們需要一種架構、一種方法來探索。 所以人生羅盤的第一步就是找出我們獨特的優勢。什麼是我們一早醒來無論如何都愛做的事，不管有沒有拿薪水，大家會感謝我們的事？《找出你的長處 2.0 》是一本書，也有網路工具。我強烈推薦大家用這本書找出你與生俱來的長處。 下一步，什麼是我們作決定的架構、優先順序？我們是否在乎人、家庭、健康？或是在乎成就、成功這些東西？我們必須搞清楚是什麼讓我們做出決定，我們才能清楚瞭解自己是哪種「魂」，才不會賣掉自己的靈魂，換取根本不在乎的東西。 然後，下一步是我們的經驗。我們都有這樣的經驗。我們每時每刻都在發現我們愛什麼、討厭什麼、我們擅長的、我們很糟的。如果我們不花時間去注意、去消化，並應用在餘生，那就白白浪費了！一年裡的每天、每星期、每個月，我都花時間反省哪裡對了，哪裡錯了，什麼東西我還想再做一遍，什麼東西我能多多應用在生活上？ 更重要的是，你看看大家，特別是今天，誰激勵了你？誰做了什麼事能讓你說出「喔天啊！看傑夫做的！我也想像他一樣！」你為什麼會說出這樣的話？打開日記本。寫下他們激勵你的部分。不是要你記下他們人生的大小瑣事，但是無論什麼啟發了你，都把它記下來，過一段時間我們就會有一個智囊，充滿著寶物能應用到人生，有更熱情的存在感，產生更好的影響力。因為當我們開始把這些東西拼湊在一起，我們就可以找出自己對成功的定義，如果人生羅盤上沒有這幾個部分，不可能做到。我們的結局就是照著劇本演人生，每個人似乎都在爬這個毫無目標的梯子。 這有點像《華爾街：金錢萬歲》，如果有人看過這部電影，打日工的問華爾街大銀行的執行長：「你是幾號？每個人都有個號碼，等他們賺到了這個數字的錢，他們就一走了之。」他說：「喔，簡單，多還要多。」然後他就微微一笑。這真的很可悲，大部分的人沒有花時間去瞭解什麼對自己很重要，大家都去做對自己沒什麼意義的工作，只因為人家說了我就去做。一旦我們有了這個架構，我們就會開始辨明什麼東西會讓我們活起來。你知道，在做這個架構之前，某種熱情可能靈光乍現，或者已經是你工作的一部分，但是你把它拋諸腦後，因為你沒有方法辨明。一旦你做了這個，你會發現有某種東西與你的強項、你的價值觀、我身為人到底是誰等等一致，我可以緊緊抓住這一點，我要利用它做點什麼，我要追求它，試著用它發揮影響力。 「活出你的傳奇」及其運動不可能存在，除非我有這個人生羅盤去辨明，「哇！這就是我想追求的東西，而且我要靠它有所作為。」如果我們不知道自己在找什麼，就永遠不可能找到它，一旦我們有這個架構，這個人生羅盤，我們就能朝下一步邁進，上面那個不是我——把不可能變為可能，挑戰自己的極限。大家不這麼做有兩個原因。一是他們對自己說做不來，或他們身邊的人說他們做不來。不管是哪種，我們都開始相信這樣的說法。我們要麼放棄，要麼根本就不去做。 問題是，事情在某人去做前都是「不可能」。每一項發明，世界上每一件新事物，大家一開始都覺得簡直是瘋狂。羅傑·班尼斯特在四分鐘跑完一哩，以前大家都認為在體能上不可能在賽跑中以四分鐘跑完一哩，直到羅傑·班尼斯特「起而行」。之後發生了什麼？兩個月之後，16 個人打破「四分鐘跑一哩」這項紀錄。我們在腦中認為做不到的事，通常是等著人完成的里程碑，只要我們能挑戰一下極限。我想這要從你的身體及健身開始，因為這是我們可以控制的。如果你認為你跑不了一哩，而你卻證明自己能跑一、二哩，或馬拉松，或瘦五磅，不管是什麼，你都會瞭解你的信心可以應用到生活的其它部分。 我與幾個朋友其實已經有這種習慣。我們有個小團體。我們會做體能冒險，最近，我發現自己有個弱點。我很怕又深又黑、很藍的水。我不知道別人有沒有同樣的恐懼，在看過六遍《大白鯊》系列之後，那時我還是個孩子。但是只要超過這裡，如果很混濁，我現在已經有這個感覺了。我會發誓有東西在裡面。即使是加州的太浩湖，清澈的淡水，我還是毫無根據怕的要死，很可笑吧？但我就是怕。反正，三年前我發現自己在這艘拖船裡，就在舊金山灣這裡。那是個又風又雨的暴風天，船上的人都暈船了，我坐在那裡穿著保溫潛水衣，看著窗外，在純粹恐懼中想像自己馬上要游到死。我要試著游過舊金山大橋。我猜這裡有些人以前可能也試過。我坐在那，我的同伴強納生，就是他說服我來搞這個，他朝我走過來，完全看到我的狀態。他說：「史考特，老兄，最糟的情況是什麼？你穿著保溫潛水衣，你不會沉下去，而且如果你游不到，旁邊有20 艘獨木舟，跳上去就好了。而且，如果有鯊魚攻擊，憑什麼牠們要從水中 80 人裡挑中你？」謝謝喔！真有用。他就像這樣：「真的啦，好好玩一玩，祝好運。」然後他就跳入水中游走了。好吧！ 結果是，這番信心喊話還真有用，我有一種完全淡定的感覺，而且我想這是因為強納生只有 13 歲。 （笑聲） 那天去游泳的 80 人中，65 個在 9 到 13 歲間。想想你對你的世界會有甚麼大不同的態度，如果你九歲時就發現你能游一哩半，從惡魔島游到舊金山，水溫只有攝氏 13 度。你還會對其它什麼說「好」？你不會放棄什麼？你還會嘗試什麼？游泳終點站是舊金山水上公園，我從水裡爬出來，當然半數孩子已經游完了，所以他們都為我歡呼，很興奮的樣子。我的頭像冰棒一樣，如果有人在灣區游過就知道，我試著融化我凍僵的臉，看著大家游完。然後我看到有個小孩，看起來不太對勁。他像這樣亂踢亂揮。他幾乎沒有吸到氣，然後砰的一聲頭又沉下去了。我注意到其他父母也在看，我發誓他們跟我想的一樣：這就是為什麼你不應該讓九歲小孩從惡魔島游到這。這可不是疲勞。突然，兩個家長跑過去抓他，他們把他扛到肩上，然後像這樣拖他，完全是跛腳的樣子。突然他們又走了幾呎，然後他們把他往輪椅上一放！他舉起雙拳展示勝利，我從沒見過那麼瘋狂的樣子！我仍然可以感覺那種熱烈，還有這個傢伙的精力，在他完成這項成就時展現。當天早些時候我曾看過他坐在輪椅上。我一點都不知道他要去游泳。你想 20 年後他會有什麼成就？有多少人告訴過他他做不到，如果他做了可能會死？ 你證明大家是錯的。你對你自己證明這是錯的，你可以一點一點朝你認為的可能前進。你不需要當世界上最快的馬拉松跑者，你只要克服你自己的不可能，完成這些事，而這要從小小步開始。做這個最棒的方法是讓你自己與充滿熱情的人為伍。做你認為不可能的事的最快方法是讓你自己置身於已經在做的人中間。 吉姆·羅恩有句名言說：「你的能力就是你最常相處的五人中的平均數。」世界歷史上沒有比這個更大的人生撇步了，你想從現狀達到你所想的目標，就要慎選與之為伍的人。這些人會改變一切，而且這是已經證實過的事實。1898 年，心理學家諾曼對一群自行車選手做過此項研究，他不但測量群體的競賽時間，也量單人的時間。他發現每次選手有隊友相伴就騎得比較快。而之後在生活各階層都顯示同樣的結果，它一遍又一遍證明了同樣的事情，就是與你為伍的人非常重要，環境就是一切。但是這由你掌控，因為結果可以是兩個極端。有 80% 的人不喜歡他們的工作，意味著我們四周大多數的人，不只在座的，其它地方也一樣，都鼓勵自我滿足於現狀，使我們不想追求對自己重要的事，所以我們必須注意我們周圍的人。 我發現我也處在這種狀態下——我舉一個幾年前的個人經驗。有沒有人曾有過某種嗜好或熱情，你對之投進全心全意，投進多到無可置信的時間，你好想好想把它變成生意，卻無人問津，一毛錢也沒賺到？對，我就是這樣試了四年，想把「活出你的傳奇」變成運動，幫助大家找出他們真心喜歡又能啟發自我的工作，我盡了全力，但是只有三個人注意到，而且他們都在現場：我母親、父親及妻子崔西。謝謝你們大力支持。 （掌聲） 我就是這麼想搞這件事，但四年來都是零成長，我差不多要把它關了，就在那個當下，我搬到舊金山，開始遇到一些相當有意思的人，他們也有這種冒險犯難的瘋狂生活方式，開公司、架網站、寫部落格，他們充滿熱情，幫助人們尋找有意義的人生道路。我有一個朋友，他家現在有八口人，他養家活口，就靠一星期寫兩次的部落格。上個月他們才從歐洲回來，全家一起。這簡直嚇死我了！這怎麼可能存在？我看到這個大受激勵，我不但沒有關掉它，反而決定要玩真的。我想盡辦法花時間，我醒著的每一個小時來追逐這些傢伙，跟他們鬼混、喝啤酒、健身，什麼都做。經歷四年的零成長後，與這些人鬼混不到六個月，「活出你的傳奇」社群就成長了十倍。又過了 12 個月，成長了 160 倍。今天已經有超過三萬人，來自 158 個國家，每個月使用我們的職場交流工具。這些人塑造了一個熱情人的社群，他們激勵我成就我許多年以前夢想的「活出你的傳奇」。 眾志成城，這就是為什麼——你知道，你問怎麼了。那四年我不認識任何人，我甚至不知道這存在，即你可以做這個東西，你可以為此造勢。然後我搬到舊金山這裡，我四周的每一個人都在做這個。這變成常態，所以我的想法從「我怎麼可能做到」變成「我怎麼可能做不到」。就在那個當下，在那個想法，那個轉變出現在腦海時，就在你的世界產生漣漪。即使你還沒真的去試，你的標準也已經從這裡到了這裡。你不需要改變目標。你只需要改變周圍環境。就是這樣，這就是為什麼我愛與這整群人在一起，為什麼我都盡量去參加每一場 TED 活動，在去上班或做其它事的路上用我的 iPad 看演講。因為這是一群會激發可能性的人。我們有一整天時間能待在一起，還有很多時間。 總之，這三個台柱有一個共通點比其它都重要。他們百分之百由我們掌控。沒有人會對你說你不能瞭解自己。沒有人會對你說你不能挑戰極限，瞭解自我的不可能並挑戰它。沒有人會對你說你不能與會鼓舞人心的人為伍，或對讓你消沉的人敬而遠之。你不能控制經濟蕭條。你不能控制會不會被解雇或撞車。大多數的事都完全在掌控之外。這三件事卻完全看我們自己，如果我們決定為之做點什麼，就會改變我們的世界。 重點是，這開始廣傳。我剛在富比士雜誌讀到美國政府報告指出，這是首次看到在一個月內離職的人比被解雇的人還多。他們原本認為這是異常，但這現象持續了連續三個月。在大家說時機很艱難的時間，大家都對計畫好的人生，對大家說你應該要做的事比中指，交換對他們而言重要的事，去做能啟發他們的事。 重點是，大家開始對這種可能性覺醒，真的，唯一能限制可能性的是你的想像。這不再是陳腔濫調。我不管你想要做什麼，有什麼樣的熱情，什麼樣的嗜好。如果你想編織，你一定能找到超棒的編織達人，你可以向他們學習。這很瘋狂。但這就是這一整天的目的，向講員學習，而且我們每天還在「活出你的傳奇」裡寫他們的概況，因為當平凡人有非凡的作為，而我們都能被他們圍繞著，那就變成正常。這不是要你變成甘地或賈伯斯，去做瘋狂的事。只是要你做對你重要的事，產生只有你才做得到的影響力。 講到甘地，他是位「斷斷續續」執業的律師，我才學到這個說法，他被呼召做更大的事，做對他意義重大的事，他非做不可。他有句話是我的人生座右銘。「一開始他們會忽視你，然後他們會笑你，然後他們會為你而戰，然後你就贏了。」 每件事在某人去做前都是不可為。你要麼就跟說你不可能的人說你很笨去試的人為伍，要麼就與激發可能性的人同行，像是在這會場的人。因為我視其為我們的責任去告訴這個世界，本來視為不可能的事可以變成新的常態。這已經開始發生。首先，做啟發自己的事，所以我們才能啟發別人去做啟發他們的事。但是我們做不到這點，除非我們知道我們在找什麼。我們必須做我們愛的工作，要刻意去做，去發現。因為我心目中的世界有 80% 的人熱愛他們的工作。那會是什麼樣子？會有什麼樣的創新？你會如何對待你四周的人？情況會開始改變。 現在我們快要結束了，我只有一個問題要問你們，我認為這是唯一重要的問題。那就是，什麼事你非做不可？去找出來，活出來，不只是為了你，也為了你四周的每一個人，因為那就是改變世界的開端。什麼事你非做不可？ 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
