Talk	en	zh-tw
sebastiao_salgado_the_silent_drama_of_photography	"I'm not sure that every person here is familiar with my pictures. I want to start to show just a few pictures to you, and after I'll speak. I must speak to you a little bit of my history, because we'll be speaking on this during my speech here. I was born in 1944 in Brazil, in the times that Brazil was not yet a market economy. I was born on a farm, a farm that was more than 50 percent rainforest [still]. A marvelous place. I lived with incredible birds, incredible animals, I swam in our small rivers with our caimans. It was about 35 families that lived on this farm, and everything that we produced on this farm, we consumed. Very few things went to the market. Once a year, the only thing that went to the market was the cattle that we produced, and we made trips of about 45 days to reach the slaughterhouse, bringing thousands of head of cattle, and about 20 days traveling back to reach our farm again. When I was 15 years old, it was necessary for me to leave this place and go to a town a little bit bigger — much bigger — where I did the second part of secondary school. There I learned different things. Brazil was starting to urbanize, industrialize, and I knew the politics. I became a little bit radical, I was a member of leftist parties, and I became an activist. I [went to] university to become an economist. I [did] a master's degree in economics. And the most important thing in my life also happened in this time. I met an incredible girl who became my lifelong best friend, and my associate in everything that I have done till now, my wife, Lélia Wanick Salgado. Brazil radicalized very strongly. We fought very hard against the dictatorship, in a moment it was necessary to us: Either go into clandestinity with weapons in hand, or leave Brazil. We were too young, and our organization thought it was better for us to go out, and we went to France, where I did a PhD in economics, Léila became an architect. I worked after for an investment bank. We made a lot of trips, financed development, economic projects in Africa with the World Bank. And one day photography made a total invasion in my life. I became a photographer, abandoned everything and became a photographer, and I started to do the photography that was important for me. Many people tell me that you are a photojournalist, that you are an anthropologist photographer, that you are an activist photographer. But I did much more than that. I put photography as my life. I lived totally inside photography doing long term projects, and I want to show you just a few pictures of — again, you'll see inside the social projects, that I went to, I published many books on these photographs, but I'll just show you a few ones now. In the '90s, from 1994 to 2000, I photographed a story called Migrations. It became a book. It became a show. But during the time that I was photographing this, I lived through a very hard moment in my life, mostly in Rwanda. I saw in Rwanda total brutality. I saw deaths by thousands per day. I lost my faith in our species. I didn't believe that it was possible for us to live any longer, and I started to be attacked by my own Staphylococcus. I started to have infection everywhere. When I made love with my wife, I had no sperm that came out of me; I had blood. I went to see a friend's doctor in Paris, told him that I was completely sick. He made a long examination, and told me, ""Sebastian, you are not sick, your prostate is perfect. What happened is, you saw so many deaths that you are dying. You must stop. Stop. You must stop because on the contrary, you will be dead."" And I made the decision to stop. I was really upset with photography, with everything in the world, and I made the decision to go back to where I was born. It was a big coincidence. It was the moment that my parents became very old. I have seven sisters. I'm one of the only men in my family, and they made together the decision to transfer this land to Léila and myself. When we received this land, this land was as dead as I was. When I was a kid, it was more than 50 percent rainforest. When we received the land, it was less than half a percent rainforest, as in all my region. To build development, Brazilian development, we destroyed a lot of our forest. As you did here in the United States, or you did in India, everywhere in this planet. To build our development, we come to a huge contradiction that we destroy around us everything. This farm that had thousands of head of cattle had just a few hundreds, and we didn't know how to deal with these. And Léila came up with an incredible idea, a crazy idea. She said, why don't you put back the rainforest that was here before? You say that you were born in paradise. Let's build the paradise again. And I went to see a good friend that was engineering forests to prepare a project for us, and we started. We started to plant, and this first year we lost a lot of trees, second year less, and slowly, slowly this dead land started to be born again. We started to plant hundreds of thousands of trees, only local species, only native species, where we built an ecosystem identical to the one that was destroyed, and the life started to come back in an incredible way. It was necessary for us to transform our land into a national park. We transformed. We gave this land back to nature. It became a national park. We created an institution called Instituto Terra, and we built a big environmental project to raise money everywhere. Here in Los Angeles, in the Bay Area in San Francisco, it became tax deductible in the United States. We raised money in Spain, in Italy, a lot in Brazil. We worked with a lot of companies in Brazil that put money into this project, the government. And the life started to come, and I had a big wish to come back to photography, to photograph again. And this time, my wish was not to photograph anymore just one animal that I had photographed all my life: us. I wished to photograph the other animals, to photograph the landscapes, to photograph us, but us from the beginning, the time we lived in equilibrium with nature. And I went. I started in the beginning of 2004, and I finished at the end of 2011. We created an incredible amount of pictures, and the result — Lélia did the design of all my books, the design of all my shows. She is the creator of the shows. And what we want with these pictures is to create a discussion about what we have that is pristine on the planet and what we must hold on this planet if we want to live, to have some equilibrium in our life. And I wanted to see us when we used, yes, our instruments in stone. We exist yet. I was last week at the Brazilian National Indian Foundation, and only in the Amazon we have about 110 groups of Indians that are not contacted yet. We must protect the forest in this sense. And with these pictures, I hope that we can create information, a system of information. We tried to do a new presentation of the planet, and I want to show you now just a few pictures of this project, please. Well, this — (Applause) — Thank you. Thank you very much. This is what we must fight hard to hold like it is now. But there is another part that we must together rebuild, to build our societies, our modern family of societies, we are at a point where we cannot go back. But we create an incredible contradiction. To build all this, we destroy a lot. Our forest in Brazil, that antique forest that was the size of California, is destroyed today 93 percent. Here, on the West Coast, you've destroyed your forest. Around here, no? The redwood forests are gone. Gone very fast, disappeared. Coming the other day from Atlanta, here, two days ago, I was flying over deserts that we made, we provoked with our own hands. India has no more trees. Spain has no more trees. And we must rebuild these forests. That is the essence of our life, these forests. We need to breathe. The only factory capable to transform CO2 into oxygen, are the forests. The only machine capable to capture the carbon that we are producing, always, even if we reduce them, everything that we do, we produce CO2, are the trees. I put the question — three or four weeks ago, we saw in the newspapers millions of fish that die in Norway. A lack of oxygen in the water. I put to myself the question, if for a moment, we will not lack oxygen for all animal species, ours included — that would be very complicated for us. For the water system, the trees are essential. I'll give you a small example that you'll understand very easily. You happy people that have a lot of hair on your head, if you take a shower, it takes you two or three hours to dry your hair if you don't use a dryer machine. Me, one minute, it's dry. The same with the trees. The trees are the hair of our planet. When you have rain in a place that has no trees, in just a few minutes, the water arrives in the stream, brings soil, destroying our water source, destroying the rivers, and no humidity to retain. When you have trees, the root system holds the water. All the branches of the trees, the leaves that come down create a humid area, and they take months and months under the water, go to the rivers, and maintain our source, maintain our rivers. This is the most important thing, when we imagine that we need water for every activity in life. I want to show you now, to finish, just a few pictures that for me are very important in that direction. You remember that I told you, when I received the farm from my parents that was my paradise, that was the farm. Land completely destroyed, the erosion there, the land had dried. But you can see in this picture, we were starting to construct an educational center that became quite a large environmental center in Brazil. But you see a lot of small spots in this picture. In each point of those spots, we had planted a tree. There are thousands of trees. Now I'll show you the pictures made exactly in the same point two months ago. (Applause) I told you in the beginning that it was necessary for us to plant about 2.5 million trees of about 200 different species in order to rebuild the ecosystem. And I'll show you the last picture. We are with two million trees in the ground now. We are doing the sequestration of about 100,000 tons of carbon with these trees. My friends, it's very easy to do. We did it, no? By an accident that happened to me, we went back, we built an ecosystem. We here inside the room, I believe that we have the same concern, and the model that we created in Brazil, we can transplant it here. We can apply it everywhere around the world, no? And I believe that we can do it together. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我不確定在座的各位是否熟悉我的作品。我想先向你們展示幾幅作品然後我再接著說。 我必須介紹一下我的生平，因為在接下來的演講中我們會談到它。1944年我出生於巴西，當時的巴西尚未施行市場經濟我出生在農場，農場至少有一半的土地是雨林【現在仍然是】。很美的地方。我和珍禽奇獸一起生活，我和凱門鱷在小河中嬉戲。農場裡大約有35戶人家，我們自給自足。幾乎不向市場供給。一年中唯一的一次供給是我們飼養的牛。我們要花45天的時間才能到達屠宰場，趕着上千頭牛然後再花20天的時間返回到達我們的農場。 我15歲的時候，差不多是要離這個地方的時候了去一個大一點的小鎮，其實大很多我在那裡完成了中學的後半部分的學業。我在那裡學到了很多。巴西開始邁向城市化和工業化，我了解當時的政治。我變的有點激進，我是一名左翼份子，接著我變成一名活躍人士。我想成為一名經濟學家，所以我上了大學。並且我拿到了經濟學碩士學位。 而我人生中最重要的一件事也在那時發生。我遇見了一位非常非常棒的女孩她成為我的人生伴侶，她參與我到現在為止做的所有事情，我的妻子，Lélia Wanick Salgado. 當時，巴西非常的激進。我們和當時的獨裁進行了艱苦的鬥爭就在那時，我們必須要：武裝起來，秘密活動或者離開巴西。我們當時太年輕，我們的組織以為離開是最好的選擇，所以我們去了法國，我在那裡拿到了經濟學的博士學位，Léila 成為一名建築師。我在一家投資銀行工作。我們經常出差，協同世界銀行在非洲建設金融項目。 有一天，攝影闖進，並完全佔據了我的生活。我成為了一名攝影師，放棄了當時擁有的一切，成為一名攝影師，開始攝影那對我來說很重要。很多人對我說：你是一名攝影記者，一名人類學攝影師，一名激進派攝影師。我做的其實比上述更多。我把攝影視為我的生命。我生活在攝影裡從事長期項目我想向你們展示幾幅作品你們會再次看見這些社會項目的內在我出版了很多本書書裡面是我拍攝的照片，但是我現在只展示幾張。 90年代，從1994年到2000年，我用攝影記錄一個叫做《遷徙》的故事我把它出版成了書，也辦過了展覽。 在那期間，我在拍攝這個，我人生中有過一段很艱難的歲月，大部分時間在盧旺達。我目睹了在盧旺達的暴行，我每天都目睹上千人死去。我對人類失去了信心，我當時覺得人類已經快要滅亡了，病菌開始侵入我的身體。我全身都感染，我和我妻子親熱的時候，射不出精液；是血。我去巴黎找一個朋友的醫生，我告訴他我病的很嚴重。他檢查了很長時間，然後和我說：Sebastian，你沒有病，你的前列腺沒有問題。你病的這麼嚴重，是因為你目睹那麼多死亡，你必須停下來，停下來。你必須要停下來，不然，你會死去。 我決定要停下來。攝影令我心煩意亂世界上的一切令我心煩意亂，我決定要回到我出生的地方。很巧，那時我的父母年紀也大了。我有7個姐妹，我是家中唯一的男孩，他們一起做了一個決定，把那塊土地轉到我和Léila的名下。當我接手這塊土地的時候，它和我一樣，都病入膏肓了。當我還是個孩子的時候，農場至少有一半的土地是雨林當我們接手的時候，雨林的面積連0.5%都不到，就和我的國家一樣。在巴西，為了開發，我們摧毀了很多雨林。就像你們在美國或印度，和世界上的其他地方所作的一樣。我們為了開發，碰到了一個很大的矛盾我們摧毀身邊的一切。這個曾經飼養上千頭牛的農場只剩下了幾百頭，我們不知道該如何面對這些問題。Léila 想到了一個很棒的主意，一個瘋狂的主意。 她說，你為什麼不把消失的雨林重新種回來呢？你說，你出生的地方是個天堂。那我們就重建天堂。 我去拜訪了一個好友他從事森林設計工程我們請他幫我們建立重建項目然後我們就開始了。我們開始種植。第一年，死了很多樹。第二年，情況好轉。然後慢慢的，這片土地死而復生。我們開始種植上百上千棵樹，我們只種本土本國的樹種，我們建造了一個生態系統，就像以前的那邊土地一樣，生命奇蹟般的開始好轉。我們當時覺得有必要把我們的土地變成國家公園。我們轉化了這片土地，將它還給了大自然。它變成了國家公園。我們成立名為Instituto Terra的機構，我們發起了一個很大的環境計畫，並四處籌款。在洛杉磯，或者舊金山的灣區捐款在美國可以用來抵稅。我們在西班牙，意大利和巴西籌款。我們和巴西的很多公司合作它們為這個計畫注入資金其他生物也來了，我有一個強烈的願望重新拾起攝影，重新拍照。這次，我的願望不再是拍攝我至今一直拍攝的物種：我們人類。我想拍攝其他的物種，拍攝其他的風景拍攝人類，原始的我們和大自然共生的我們。我從2004年的年初開始在2011年的年末結束。我們拍攝了很多照片，這是我們的成果 － Lélia 負責設計所有攝影集。和攝影展。她策劃這些展覽。我們對這些照片的期望是激起一場討論：地球上，還有什麼原始存在以及我們必須堅持什麼如果我們想生存下去，我們必須在生活中保持一定的平衡。我想看到我們使用石器。我們存在。我上週在巴西國立印第安基金會，在亞馬遜，大約有110個印第安部落我們還沒有聯繫上。我們必須要保護這片森林對於這些照片，我希望我們能創造信息，一個信息系統。我們想展示一個新的地球，我現在想展示這個項目的一些照片請展示。 唔，這-（掌聲）-謝謝。非常感謝。 我們必須為之奮鬥來保持現狀。但是有另外一個部分，需要我們一起重建重建我們的社會，我們的現代家庭社會，我們已經無法回頭。我們製造了一個很大的矛盾。為了建立這些，我們摧毀了很多。我們巴西的森林，古老的森林差不多和加利福尼亞州一樣大93%的森林已經被毀滅了。這裡，在西海岸，你們毀滅了你們的森林。在這附近，不是嗎？紅杉樹森林已經一去不復返。消失的很快。兩天前，我從亞特蘭大州趕來飛機在沙漠上空我們親手創造的沙漠。印度沒有樹木，西班牙也是一樣。 我們必須重建樹木。森林對我們的生命太重要了，我們需要呼吸。唯一可以把二氧化碳轉化為氧氣的就是森林。唯一可以吸收我們排放出的碳的就是樹木，即使我們嘗試減少排放，我們所做的一切本身就在排放碳體。我三四周前提出一個問題我們在報紙上看到在挪威，數百萬條魚死去。因為水裡的氧氣不夠。我問我自己，如果有那麼一刻，所有的物種都不會缺氧包括我們的 — 那將會變得很複雜。 樹木對於水資源是至關重要的。我舉個小例子，你們就會很容易了解了。你們這些滿頭豐髮的幸運人，如果你洗澡頭髮大約要兩三個小時才會乾如果你不用吹風機。我，一分鐘，就乾了。 樹木也是一樣的。樹木就像是地球的頭髮。如果一個沒有樹木的地方在下雨，幾分鐘後，雨水成流帶來泥沙，摧毀我們的水源，摧毀河流，無法保持濕度。如果有樹木，樹根會留住雨水。樹枝樹葉下垂營造一個濕潤的環境，它們需要幾個月的時間匯入河流，保持我們的水源，維護我們的河流。這是最重要的當我們想像我們每天的生活都離不開水。 結束之前，我必須要展示另外一些對於我來說很重要的照片在那個方面。還記得我說過當我接手我父母的農場的時候曾經的對於我來說是天堂的農場。已是一片乾枯，荒涼。但是你看這張照片，我們開始建立一個教育中心後來成為了巴西一個很大的環境中心你看這些照片上一些小點，我們在每一個小點所在的地方種一棵樹有上千棵樹。現在我展示給你們看一下兩個月前在同一個位置拍攝的照片。 （掌聲） 開始我就說了我們需要種植大約250萬棵樹大約200種不同的樹種以便重建我們的生態系統。我展示最後一張照片。我們已經種植了200萬棵樹，我們的樹林吸收了大約10萬噸的碳。 我的朋友們，真的很簡單，我們做到了，不是嗎？因為一個發生在我身上的事故，我們回去，並建造了一個生態系統。我們現在在室內，我相信我們有同樣的擔憂，我們在巴西建立的模式，我們可以移植到這裡。我們可以將它應用於世界各地，不是嗎？我相信，我們齊心協力，一定可以做到。 非常感謝。 （掌聲）
