Talk	en	zh-tw
sebastian_deterding_what_your_designs_say_about_you	"We are today talking about moral persuasion: What is moral and immoral in trying to change people's behaviors by using technology and using design? And I don't know what you expect, but when I was thinking about that issue, I early on realized what I'm not able to give you are answers. I'm not able to tell you what is moral or immoral, because we're living in a pluralist society. My values can be radically different from your values, which means that what I consider moral or immoral based on that might not necessarily be what you consider moral or immoral. But I also realized there is one thing that I could give you, and that is what this guy behind me gave the world — Socrates. It is questions. What I can do and what I would like to do with you is give you, like that initial question, a set of questions to figure out for yourselves, layer by layer, like peeling an onion, getting at the core of what you believe is moral or immoral persuasion. And I'd like to do that with a couple of examples of technologies where people have used game elements to get people to do things. So it's at first a very simple, very obvious question I would like to give you: What are your intentions if you are designing something? And obviously, intentions are not the only thing, so here is another example for one of these applications. There are a couple of these kinds of Eco dashboards right now — dashboards built into cars — which try to motivate you to drive more fuel-efficiently. This here is Nissan's MyLeaf, where your driving behavior is compared with the driving behavior of other people, so you can compete for who drives a route the most fuel-efficiently. And these things are very effective, it turns out — so effective that they motivate people to engage in unsafe driving behaviors, like not stopping at a red light, because that way you have to stop and restart the engine, and that would use quite some fuel, wouldn't it? So despite this being a very well-intended application, obviously there was a side effect of that. Here's another example for one of these side effects. Commendable: a site that allows parents to give their kids little badges for doing the things that parents want their kids to do, like tying their shoes. And at first that sounds very nice, very benign, well-intended. But it turns out, if you look into research on people's mindset, caring about outcomes, caring about public recognition, caring about these kinds of public tokens of recognition is not necessarily very helpful for your long-term psychological well-being. It's better if you care about learning something. It's better when you care about yourself than how you appear in front of other people. So that kind of motivational tool that is used actually, in and of itself, has a long-term side effect, in that every time we use a technology that uses something like public recognition or status, we're actually positively endorsing this as a good and normal thing to care about — that way, possibly having a detrimental effect on the long-term psychological well-being of ourselves as a culture. So that's a second, very obvious question: What are the effects of what you're doing — the effects you're having with the device, like less fuel, as well as the effects of the actual tools you're using to get people to do things — public recognition? Now is that all — intention, effect? Well, there are some technologies which obviously combine both. Both good long-term and short-term effects and a positive intention like Fred Stutzman's ""Freedom,"" where the whole point of that application is — well, we're usually so bombarded with constant requests by other people, with this device, you can shut off the Internet connectivity of your PC of choice for a pre-set amount of time, to actually get some work done. And I think most of us will agree that's something well-intended, and also has good consequences. In the words of Michel Foucault, it is a ""technology of the self."" It is a technology that empowers the individual to determine its own life course, to shape itself. But the problem is, as Foucault points out, that every technology of the self has a technology of domination as its flip side. As you see in today's modern liberal democracies, the society, the state, not only allows us to determine our self, to shape our self, it also demands it of us. It demands that we optimize ourselves, that we control ourselves, that we self-manage continuously, because that's the only way in which such a liberal society works. These technologies want us to stay in the game that society has devised for us. They want us to fit in even better. They want us to optimize ourselves to fit in. Now, I don't say that is necessarily a bad thing; I just think that this example points us to a general realization, and that is: no matter what technology or design you look at, even something we consider as well-intended and as good in its effects as Stutzman's Freedom, comes with certain values embedded in it. And we can question these values. We can question: Is it a good thing that all of us continuously self-optimize ourselves to fit better into that society? Or to give you another example: What about a piece of persuasive technology that convinces Muslim women to wear their headscarves? Is that a good or a bad technology in its intentions or in its effects? Well, that basically depends on the kind of values you bring to bear to make these kinds of judgments. So that's a third question: What values do you use to judge? And speaking of values: I've noticed that in the discussion about moral persuasion online and when I'm talking with people, more often than not, there is a weird bias. And that bias is that we're asking: Is this or that ""still"" ethical? Is it ""still"" permissible? We're asking things like: Is this Oxfam donation form, where the regular monthly donation is the preset default, and people, maybe without intending it, are encouraged or nudged into giving a regular donation instead of a one-time donation, is that ""still' permissible? Is it ""still"" ethical? We're fishing at the low end. But in fact, that question, ""Is it 'still' ethical?"" is just one way of looking at ethics. Because if you look at the beginning of ethics in Western culture, you see a very different idea of what ethics also could be. For Aristotle, ethics was not about the question, ""Is that still good, or is it bad?"" Ethics was about the question of how to live life well. And he put that in the word ""arête,"" which we, from [Ancient Greek], translate as ""virtue."" But really, it means ""excellence."" It means living up to your own full potential as a human being. And that is an idea that, I think, Paul Richard Buchanan put nicely in a recent essay, where he said, ""Products are vivid arguments about how we should live our lives."" Our designs are not ethical or unethical in that they're using ethical or unethical means of persuading us. They have a moral component just in the kind of vision and the aspiration of the good life that they present to us. And if you look into the designed environment around us with that kind of lens, asking, ""What is the vision of the good life that our products, our design, present to us?"", then you often get the shivers, because of how little we expect of each other, of how little we actually seem to expect of our life, and what the good life looks like. So that's a fourth question I'd like to leave you with: What vision of the good life do your designs convey? And speaking of design, you'll notice that I already broadened the discussion, because it's not just persuasive technology that we're talking about here, it's any piece of design that we put out here in the world. I don't know whether you know the great communication researcher Paul Watzlawick who, back in the '60s, made the argument that we cannot not communicate. Even if we choose to be silent, we chose to be silent, and we're communicating something by choosing to be silent. And in the same way that we cannot not communicate, we cannot not persuade: whatever we do or refrain from doing, whatever we put out there as a piece of design, into the world, has a persuasive component. It tries to affect people. It puts a certain vision of the good life out there in front of us, which is what Peter-Paul Verbeek, the Dutch philosopher of technology, says. No matter whether we as designers intend it or not, we materialize morality. We make certain things harder and easier to do. We organize the existence of people. We put a certain vision of what good or bad or normal or usual is in front of people, by everything we put out there in the world. Even something as innocuous as a set of school chairs is a persuasive technology, because it presents and materializes a certain vision of the good life — a good life in which teaching and learning and listening is about one person teaching, the others listening; in which it is about learning-is-done-while-sitting; in which you learn for yourself; in which you're not supposed to change these rules, because the chairs are fixed to the ground. And even something as innocuous as a single-design chair, like this one by Arne Jacobsen, is a persuasive technology, because, again, it communicates an idea of the good life: a good life — a life that you, as a designer, consent to by saying, ""In a good life, goods are produced as sustainably or unsustainably as this chair. Workers are treated as well or as badly as the workers were treated that built that chair."" The good life is a life where design is important because somebody obviously took the time and spent the money for that kind of well-designed chair; where tradition is important, because this is a traditional classic and someone cared about this; and where there is something as conspicuous consumption, where it is OK and normal to spend a humongous amount of money on such a chair, to signal to other people what your social status is. So these are the kinds of layers, the kinds of questions I wanted to lead you through today; the question of: What are the intentions that you bring to bear when you're designing something? What are the effects, intended and unintended, that you're having? What are the values you're using to judge those? What are the virtues, the aspirations that you're actually expressing in that? And how does that apply, not just to persuasive technology, but to everything you design? Do we stop there? I don't think so. I think that all of these things are eventually informed by the core of all of this, and this is nothing but life itself. Why, when the question of what the good life is informs everything that we design, should we stop at design and not ask ourselves: How does it apply to our own life? ""Why should the lamp or the house be an art object, but not our life?"" as Michel Foucault puts it. Just to give you a practical example of Buster Benson. This is Buster setting up a pull-up machine at the office of his new start-up, Habit Labs, where they're trying to build other applications like ""Health Month"" for people. And why is he building a thing like this? Well, here is the set of axioms that Habit Labs, Buster's start-up, put up for themselves on how they wanted to work together as a team when they're building these applications — a set of moral principles they set themselves for working together — one of them being, ""We take care of our own health and manage our own burnout."" Because ultimately, how can you ask yourselves and how can you find an answer on what vision of the good life you want to convey and create with your designs without asking the question: What vision of the good life do you yourself want to live? And with that, I thank you. (Applause)"	今天我們要來談談道德勸説當我們試著用科技和設計來改變人們的行爲時這之間道德的界限在哪裏？ 我不知道你們的期待是什麽但當我在想這個問題時我很早就理解到我是沒有答案的我無法告訴你什麽是道德或不道德因爲我們活在一個多元化的社會我和你的價值觀可能極端地不同也就是說我判斷道德的標準和你的標準不見得一樣 不過我知道 我可以給你的就是我背後這個人蘇格拉底所告訴這世界的 — 那就是問題我想給你們像開頭的問題一樣一連串的問題讓我們一起來探討像剝洋蔥一樣一層又一層的剝掉最後達到你價值信仰的核心也就是道德和不道德的分界我要提出幾個科技上的例子説明人們如何用遊戲的元素來使其他人做事 所以我要給你的第一個十分簡單明顯的問題：當你在設計一樣東西時 你最初的用意是什麽？很明顯地 光有用意不能解釋一切這裡有另外一個例子現在有所謂的環保儀表板這些裝在車上的儀表板會激發你去想怎樣開車才更省油像這個是Nissan的MyLeaf在這上面你可以看到你和他人的駕駛方式的比較所以你可以和其他人比賽看誰油用得最少結果發現這個儀表板十分的厲害厲害到可以讓人們爲了省油反而去採取不安全的駕駛行爲像闖紅燈等等的因爲紅燈時你得停下來再重新啓動這會花費更多的汽油，不是嗎？所以，雖然這個程式的用意是好的但大家都看得出來這有個副作用 這裡還有個有關副作用的例子Commendable （網站名）在這個網站上爸爸媽媽可以給予一些小圖章來獎賞他們的小孩的行爲像聽話綁鞋帶之類的一開始這主意聼起來不錯十分聰明也用意良好但結果你如果去看人類心理的研究像這樣在意結果在意被公衆認可和這些代表認可的實體符號對于長期的心理健康並沒有什麼幫助但如果你自發地去學習自己來關心自己而不是關心自己呈現的外像才會有更積極的作用所以這種激勵他人的工具在其本質上有長期的副作用每一次當我們使用這種牽涉到公共認可或地位的科技時我們其實也就正向地認可說這些是該去注意的好事情這麽一來在長期地來説會對我們心理的狀態有負面的影響 第二個很明顯的問題是你的所作所爲有什麽影響？你使用一個裝置帶來的影響譬如說減少耗油或是透過使用該裝置來使別人做事而帶來的效果也就是公共認可 這是用意還是影響？事實上有些科技結合了兩者長期和短期的正面影響結合了正面的用意 像Fred Stutzman's Freedom,這個程式的用處在於我們不是常常被電話和其他人的請求疲勞轟炸嗎有了這個裝置你就可以把網路和你的個人電腦関掉一段時間讓你可以專心完成一些事我們大部分的人會同意這個的用意是好的而產生的結果也是好的用Michel Foucault （法國現代哲學家）的話來説“那是個自我的科技”那是個能激勵個人來決定自己的生活路綫和塑造自己 但是問題在於如同 Foucault 所指出的任何一個自我的科技在其背後都有一支配的科技如你當今在現代自由的民主裏所看到的社會國家不止讓我們決定自己塑造自己同時也要求我們這麽做要求我們要使自己盡善盡美要求我們要控制我們自己要求我們要不斷地自我管理因爲這是讓自由社會能運行的唯一方法這些科技要我們留在社會為我們設計的遊戲裏我們被要求必須更完美地融入我們必須使自己完美來融入 我不是在說這是件壞事我只是覺得這個例子為我們指出了一般性的領悟也就是不管什麽設計或是科技或是我們覺得用意和影響都好的東西像 Stutzman's Freedom都會有一些内定的價值我們可以對這些價值存疑我們可以問：不斷地要求我們自己做到盡善盡美來進一步融入社會這是一件好事嗎？ 再擧另一個例子例如一個勸説穆斯林婦女戴頭巾的科技就其用意和影響來説這是好還是壞的科技？這個其實是決定在你做出這樣的判斷時基於什麽樣的價值？ 所以第三個問題是你作判斷時基於的價值是什麽？談到價值我注意到在網路上討論道德勸説時或我和人們談話時常常會有個奇怪的偏差這個偏差就是我們會問這還是符合道德的嗎？這是否還是被允許的？我們會問 譬如說Oxfam（慈善組織）的捐款單上預設的捐款頻率是設為每個月一般人在不注意的情況下會被引導至每月定期捐款而不是一次性捐款這是可允許的嗎？這是道德的嗎？我們舉出的是極端的例子 但事實上這個問題“這還道德嗎？”只是另一個看道德的方式因爲如果你看看西方文化裏道德的起源你會看到道德也會有很不同的面貌對亞裏士多德而言道德不單只是“是或不是”的問題道德還是如何活得好他用了arete這個字在古希臘文裏被翻譯成道德但事實上應該解釋為優秀意思是將你的身為人類的才能發揮到極致 而在最近的一篇散文裏Paul Richard Buchanan很適切地提到產品是用來説明我們該如何生活的生動的論點我們的設計不管是否使用道德的論點來勸説這都無關道德在它們展現給我們的方式裏在它們對好的生活方式的洞察力和啓發裏它們都有一個道德的部分 而且如果你透過這樣的鏡頭來檢視我們所設計的環境並問道“我們的產品和設計要呈現給我們的好的生活的觀點是什麽？“那你會不寒而慄因爲你會發現我們對互相的期待和對我們的生活及希望的好生活的期待是如此的少 那麽就提到第四個問題你的設計要帶來的對好生活的洞察力是什麽？談到設計你會發現我已經將討論範圍擴大了因爲我們談得不止是勸服的科技那還可以是這世上任何的設計 我不曉得你知不知道偉大的溝通學大師 Paul Watzlawick早在60年代就提出說我們無法不溝通即使我們選擇沉默即便沉默，我們還是用沉默在溝通如果我們不能不溝通的話，同理可知我們就無法不勸說不管我們做一件事或是不做一件事在這世上所有我們的設計都帶有勸説的一部分要來試著影響人們它將一定的美好生活的觀點呈現在我們面前 正如 Peter-Paul Verbeek荷蘭的科技哲學家所言身為設計師不管我們有意或無意我們將道德實體化我們將一些事變得更難也更容易我們組織人們的生存透過我們設計出來的東西我們將一些判定好壞異常的觀點擺在人們的眼前 就連一組學校的座椅這麽平常的東西也是一種勸説的科技因爲這展現了也實體化了一定的美好生活的觀點在這個美好生活裏的教學聽課定義為是一個人教 一群人聼學要坐著學是為你自己而學而不該去改變規則因爲椅子是固定在地上 即使是一張無辜的名家設計的椅子像這張 Arne Jacobsen 的椅子也是勸説的科技因爲它傳遞了美好生活的觀點一個美好的生活根據設計師所說的在美好生活裏物品就像這張椅子永續或非永續地被生産工人就像生産這張椅子的工人一樣很好或不好地被對待在美好生活裏設計是重要的因爲有人花了時間和金錢投注在那樣的好的設計的椅子美好生活裏傳統是重要的因爲這是傳統經典而且有人重視這件事美好生活裏該有明顯的消費在美好生活裏將一大筆錢花在這樣的椅子上讓別人知道你的社會地位這是正常的是可以的 所以我今天想要帶給你的就是這一類的問題像：你在設計東西時你的出發點用意是什麽？你的設計有意和無意的效果是什麽？而你用來判定這些的價值觀又是什麽？你的設計所展現的優點和啓發是什麽？這些又如何被應用在你所設計的一切而不只是勸説科技上？ 問題就此打住了嗎？我並不如此認爲這一切的一切都是由其核心所傳遞出來的那就是生活當我們問到什麽是美好生活這可從我們設計的一切事物看出但爲什麽我們就只看到設計而不進一步問這設計如何能應用在我們的生活上？為什麽燈或屋子是一個藝術品而我們的生活不是？如同 Michel Foucault 曾經這麽說過 這裡我給你一個 Buster Benson 的具體例子他在他的新的 Habit 實驗室設立一個引體向上的機器他們試著為人們來研發其他像Health Month 的應用程式他爲什麽要建這樣的機器？這裡是一組Buster建立的Habit Lab 工作人員的座右銘這是一些他們希望當他們在一起工作時一起設計這些應用程式時該一起遵守的道德規範這些座右銘其中一條是“我們照顧自己的健康和管理自己的爆肝” 因爲最終地來説如果你不先去問問自己你自己想要的美好生活的觀點是什麽你如何能知道你的設計想要傳遞和創造的美好生活的觀點是什麽？ 就此結束演講 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
