Talk	en	zh-tw
shaolan_learn_to_read_chinese_with_ease	"Growing up in Taiwan as the daughter of a calligrapher, one of my most treasured memories was my mother showing me the beauty, the shape and the form of Chinese characters. Ever since then, I was fascinated by this incredible language. But to an outsider, it seems to be as impenetrable as the Great Wall of China. Over the past few years, I've been wondering if I can break down this wall, so anyone who wants to understand and appreciate the beauty of this sophisticated language could do so. I started thinking about how a new, fast method of learning Chinese might be useful. Since the age of five, I started to learn how to draw every single stroke for each character in the correct sequence. I learned new characters every day during the course of the next 15 years. Since we only have five minutes, it's better that we have a fast and simpler way. A Chinese scholar would understand 20,000 characters. You only need 1,000 to understand the basic literacy. The top 200 will allow you to comprehend 40 percent of basic literature — enough to read road signs, restaurant menus, to understand the basic idea of the web pages or the newspapers. Today I'm going to start with eight to show you how the method works. You are ready? Open your mouth as wide as possible until it's square. You get a mouth. This is a person going for a walk. Person. If the shape of the fire is a person with two arms on both sides, as if she was yelling frantically, ""Help! I'm on fire!"" — This symbol actually is originally from the shape of the flame, but I like to think that way. Whichever works for you. This is a tree. Tree. This is a mountain. The sun. The moon. The symbol of the door looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west. I call these eight characters radicals. They are the building blocks for you to create lots more characters. A person. If someone walks behind, that is ""to follow."" As the old saying goes, two is company, three is a crowd. If a person stretched their arms wide, this person is saying, ""It was this big."" The person inside the mouth, the person is trapped. He's a prisoner, just like Jonah inside the whale. One tree is a tree. Two trees together, we have the woods. Three trees together, we create the forest. Put a plank underneath the tree, we have the foundation. Put a mouth on the top of the tree, that's ""idiot."" (Laughter) Easy to remember, since a talking tree is pretty idiotic. Remember fire? Two fires together, I get really hot. Three fires together, that's a lot of flames. Set the fire underneath the two trees, it's burning. For us, the sun is the source of prosperity. Two suns together, prosperous. Three together, that's sparkles. Put the sun and the moon shining together, it's brightness. It also means tomorrow, after a day and a night. The sun is coming up above the horizon. Sunrise. A door. Put a plank inside the door, it's a door bolt. Put a mouth inside the door, asking questions. Knock knock. Is anyone home? This person is sneaking out of a door, escaping, evading. On the left, we have a woman. Two women together, they have an argument. (Laughter) Three women together, be careful, it's adultery. So we have gone through almost 30 characters. By using this method, the first eight radicals will allow you to build 32. The next group of eight characters will build an extra 32. So with very little effort, you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters, which is the same as a Chinese eight-year-old. So after we know the characters, we start building phrases. For example, the mountain and the fire together, we have fire mountain. It's a volcano. We know Japan is the land of the rising sun. This is a sun placed with the origin, because Japan lies to the east of China. So a sun, origin together, we build Japan. A person behind Japan, what do we get? A Japanese person. The character on the left is two mountains stacked on top of each other. In ancient China, that means in exile, because Chinese emperors, they put their political enemies in exile beyond mountains. Nowadays, exile has turned into getting out. A mouth which tells you where to get out is an exit. This is a slide to remind me that I should stop talking and get off of the stage. Thank you. (Applause)"	身為書法家之女的我在台灣成長身為書法家之女的我在台灣成長我最珍貴的回憶就是母親教懂我漢字的形態並陶冶我去欣賞當中的美從此以後，我就迷上了這絕妙的語文 但對門外漢而言中文有如萬里長城般的高不可攀過去數年，我一直在思索能否讓這堵高牆倒下好讓有志之士都能學會並欣賞這精湛的語言我開始思索一種前所未有而且快速的中文學習法 自五歲起，我開始學習以正確筆順書寫每個漢字以正確筆順書寫每個漢字接下來的十五年，我每天都學習新字接下來的十五年，我每天都學習新字我在這裡只有五分鐘，時間相當緊迫需得有個快速、簡單的方法來跟大家分享這個學習方法中國讀書人能識得二萬個中文字但其實只需認得一千字就具備中文基礎了學會最基礎的二百字就能理解四成的用語學會最基礎的二百字就能理解四成的用語這足以看懂路牌、餐廳菜單並了解網頁和報紙的大意並了解網頁和報紙的大意現在我要用八個字來展示一下這個學習方法準備好了嗎？ 使勁張大嘴巴讓嘴變成口型為「口」散步的人為「人」「火」就像人舉起雙手「火」就像人舉起雙手振臂高呼「天啊！我著火了！」這個字原本來自火的形態但我喜歡這樣想像。其實只要你能理解，什麼方法都可以這是一棵樹「木」這是一座「山」「日」「月」「門」的漢字就像是荒野西部的酒吧大門 我稱這八個字為部首這些元素能組成更多文字這些元素能組成更多文字「人」人隨其後，為「从」(從)古語有云：兩人結伴，三人不歡─三人為「众」（眾）若人展開雙臂，說：「有這麼『大』」若人展開雙臂，說：「有這麼『大』」人在口中，是「囚」禁就像約拿被困於鯨魚口裡一木為樹，雙木為「林」三木就成了「森」林樹下加橫木，為根「本」樹上長口，是「呆」子（眾笑）很容易記吧？會說話的樹的確還蠻傻的還記得火嗎？兩火交疊，是「炎」熱三火相加，是火燄四射兩木下生火，是「焚」燒對中國人而言，日(太陽)為萬物之源兩日相隨，代表「昌」盛三日相疊亮「晶」晶日月相輔為「明」代表光明亦代表明日(過了一晝夜)日出為「旦」，太陽升上地平線「門」中放橫木，是「閂」鎖門的門閂門中有口，是「問」彷彿敲門問：有人在嗎？這個人在門邊鬼鬼祟祟「閃」躲、「閃」避左邊是個「女」人「奻」，兩個女人在一起，就會起爭執（眾笑）三女一起要當心，有「姦」情 現在我們已經談了將近三十個字用這種方法，前八個部首就組成三十二個字下一組的八個部首又能組成三十二個字如此你就能輕而易舉的學會數百個中文字如此你就能輕而易舉的學會數百個中文字相當於一個八歲的中國小孩的中文水平學會字後，就開始造詞例如「火」加「山」會噴火的山，就是「火山」日本的意思是朝陽升起的地方因為日本位處中國東方對中國而言是太陽本源之處因此「日」加上「本」組成「日本」「日本」後加「人」，是甚麼？是「日本人」 左邊的字是兩座山上下相疊左邊的字是兩座山上下相疊在中國，代表逐「出」中國古代皇帝會剷除異己把政敵逐出千山萬水之外現在，逐「出」成了外「出」一張會告訴你如何走「出」去的口是「出口」 這張投影片正好提醒我該就此打住離開講台了。謝謝 （掌聲）
