Talk	en	zh-tw
shereen_el_feki_a_little_told_tale_of_sex_and_sensuality	"So when I was in Morocco, in Casablanca, not so long ago, I met a young unmarried mother called Faiza. Faiza showed me photos of her infant son and she told me the story of his conception, pregnancy, and delivery. It was a remarkable tale, but Faiza saved the best for last. ""You know, I am a virgin,"" she told me. ""I have two medical certificates to prove it."" This is the modern Middle East, where two millennia after the coming of Christ, virgin births are still a fact of life. Faiza's story is just one of hundreds I've heard  over the years, traveling across the Arab region talking to people about sex. Now, I know this might sound like a dream job, or possibly a highly dubious occupation, but for me, it's something else altogether. I'm half Egyptian, and I'm Muslim. But I grew up in Canada, far from my Arab roots. Like so many who straddle East and West, I've been drawn, over the years, to try to better understand my origins. That I chose to look at sex comes from  my background in HIV/AIDS, as a writer and a researcher and an activist. Sex lies at the heart of an emerging epidemic in the Middle East and North Africa, which is one of only two regions in the world where HIV/AIDS is still on the rise. Now sexuality is an incredibly powerful lens with which to study any society, because what happens in our intimate lives is reflected by forces on a bigger stage: in politics and economics, in religion and tradition,  in gender and generations. As I found, if you really want to know a people, you start by looking inside their bedrooms. Now to be sure, the Arab world is vast and varied. But running across it are three red lines — these are topics you are not supposed  to challenge in word or deed. The first of these is politics. But the Arab Spring has changed all that, in uprisings which have blossomed  across the region since 2011. Now while those in power, old and new, continue to cling to business as usual, millions are still pushing back, and pushing forward to what they hope will be a better life. That second red line is religion. But now religion and politics are connected, with the rise of such groups as the  Muslim Brotherhood. And some people, at least, are starting  to ask questions about the role of Islam in public and private life. You know, as for that third red line,  that off-limits subject, what do you think it might be? Audience: Sex. Shereen El Feki: Louder, I can't hear you. Audience: Sex. SEF: Again, please don't be shy. Audience: Sex. SEF: Absolutely, that's right, it's sex. (Laughter) Across the Arab region, the only accepted context for sex is marriage — approved by your parents, sanctioned by religion and registered by the state. Marriage is your ticket to adulthood. If you don't tie the knot, you can't  move out of your parents' place, and you're not supposed to be having sex, and you're definitely not supposed  to be having children. It's a social citadel; it's an impregnable fortress which resists any assault, any alternative. And around the fortress is this vast field of taboo against premarital sex, against condoms, against abortion, against homosexuality, you name it. Faiza was living proof of this. Her virginity statement was  not a piece of wishful thinking. Although the major religions of the region extoll premarital chastity, in a patriarchy, boys will be boys. Men have sex before marriage, and people more or less turn a blind eye. Not so for women, who are expected to be virgins  on their wedding night — that is, to turn up with your hymen intact. This is not a question of individual concern, this is a matter of family honor,  and in particular, men's honor. And so women and their relatives will go to great lengths to preserve  this tiny piece of anatomy — from female genital mutilation, to virginity testing, to hymen repair surgery. Faiza chose a different route: non-vaginal sex. Only she became pregnant all the same. But Faiza didn't actually realize this, because there's so little  sexuality education in schools, and so little communication in the family. When her condition became hard to hide, Faiza's mother helped her flee  her father and brothers. This is because honor killings are a real threat for untold numbers of women in the Arab region. And so when Faiza eventually fetched up at  a hospital in Casablanca, the man who offered to help her, instead tried to rape her. Sadly, Faiza is not alone. In Egypt, where my research is focused, I have seen plenty of trouble  in and out of the citadel. There are legions of young men who can't afford to get married, because marriage has become  a very expensive proposition. They are expected to bear the burden of costs in married life, but they can't find jobs. This is one of the major drivers  of the recent uprisings, and it is one of the reasons for the  rising age of marriage in much of the Arab region. There are career women who want to get married, but can't find a husband, because they defy gender expectations, or as one young female doctor  in Tunisia put it to me, ""The women, they are becoming more and more open. But the man, he is still at the prehistoric stage."" And then there are men and women who  cross the heterosexual line, who have sex with their own sex, or who have a different gender identity. They are on the receiving end of laws which punish their activities, even their appearance. And they face a daily struggle with social stigma, with family despair, and with religious fire and brimstone. Now, it's not as if it's all rosy  in the marital bed either. Couples who are looking for greater happiness, greater sexual happiness in their married lives, but are at a loss of how to achieve it, especially wives, who are afraid  of being seen as bad women if they show some spark in the bedroom. And then there are those whose marriages are actually a veil for prostitution. They have been sold by their families, often to wealthy Arab tourists. This is just one face of a booming  sex trade across the Arab region. Now raise your hand if any of  this is sounding familiar to you, from your part of the world. Yeah. It's not as if the Arab world has a monopoly on sexual hangups. And although we don't yet have an Arab Kinsey Report to tell us exactly what's happening  inside bedrooms across the Arab region, It's pretty clear that  something is not right. Double standards for men and women, sex as a source of shame, family control limiting individual choices, and a vast gulf between appearance and reality: what people are doing and what they're willing to admit to, and a general reluctance to move  beyond private whispers to a serious and sustained public discussion. As one doctor in Cairo summed it up for me, ""Here, sex is the opposite of sport. Football, everybody talks about it, but hardly anyone plays. But sex, everybody is doing it, but nobody wants to talk about it."" (Laughter) (Music) (In Arabic) SEF: I want to give you a piece of advice, which if you follow it, will make you happy in life. When your husband reaches out to you, when he seizes a part of your body, sigh deeply and look at him lustily. When he penetrates you with his penis, try to talk flirtatiously and  move yourself in harmony with him. Hot stuff! And it might sound that these handy hints come from ""The Joy of Sex"" or YouPorn. But in fact, they come from a 10th-century Arabic book called ""The Encyclopedia of Pleasure,"" which covers sex from aphrodisiacs to zoophilia, and everything in between. The Encyclopedia is just one  in a long line of Arabic erotica, much of it written by religious scholars. Going right back to the Prophet Muhammad, there is a rich tradition in Islam of talking frankly about sex: not just its problems, but also its pleasures, and not just for men, but also for women. A thousand years ago, we used to have  whole dictionaries of sex in Arabic. Words to cover every conceivable sexual feature, position and preference, a body of language that was rich enough to make up the body  of the woman you see on this page. Today, this history is largely unknown  in the Arab region. Even by educated people, who often feel more comfortable talking about sex in a foreign language than they do in their own tongue. Today's sexual landscape looks a lot like Europe and America on the brink of the sexual revolution. But while the West has opened on sex, what we found is that Arab societies appear to have been moving in the opposite direction. In Egypt and many of its neighbors, this closing down is part of a wider closing in political, social and cultural thought. And it is the product of a complex historical process, one which has gained ground with the rise  of Islamic conservatism since the late 1970s. ""Just say no"" is what conservatives  around the world say to any challenge to the sexual status quo. In the Arab region, they brand these attempts as a Western conspiracy to undermine traditional Arab and Islamic values. But what's really at stake here is one of their most powerful tools of control: sex wrapped up in religion. But history shows us that  even as recently as our fathers' and grandfathers' day, there have been times of greater pragmatism, and tolerance, and a willingness to consider other interpretations: be it abortion, or masturbation, or even  the incendiary topic of homosexuality. It is not black and white, as conservatives would have us believe. In these, as in so many other matters, Islam offers us at least 50 shades of gray. (Laughter) Over my travels, I've met men and women  across the Arab region who've been exploring that spectrum — sexologists who are trying to help couples find greater happiness in their marriages, innovators who are managing to get  sexuality education into schools, small groups of men and women, lesbian, gay, transgendered, transsexual, who are reaching out to their peers with online initiatives and real-world support. Women, and increasingly men, who are starting to speak out and push back against sexual violence on the streets and in the home. Groups that are trying to help sex workers protect themselves against HIV and other occupational hazards, and NGOs that are helping unwed mothers like Faiza find a place in society, and critically, stay with their kids. Now these efforts are small,  they're often underfunded, and they face formidable opposition. But I am optimistic that, in the long run, times are changing, and they and their ideas will gain ground. Social change doesn't happen in the Arab region through dramatic confrontation, beating or indeed baring of breasts, but rather through negotiation. What we're talking here is not about a  sexual revolution, but a sexual evolution,  learning from other parts of the world, adapting to local conditions, forging our own path, not following one blazed by another. That path, I hope, will one day lead us  to the right to control our own bodies, and to access the information  and services we need to lead satisfying and safe sexual lives. The right to express our ideas freely, to marry whom we choose,  to choose our own partners, to be sexually active or not, to decide whether to have children and when, all this without violence or force or discrimination. Now we are very far from this  across the Arab region, and so much needs to change: law, education, media, the economy, the list goes on and on, and it is the work of a generation, at least. But it begins with a journey that I myself have made, asking hard questions of received wisdoms in sexual life. And it is a journey which has only served to strengthen my faith, and my appreciation of local histories and cultures by showing me possibilities  where I once only saw absolutes. Now given the turmoil in many countries in the Arab region, talking about sex,  challenging the taboos, seeking alternatives might sound like something of a luxury. But at this critical moment in history, if we do not anchor freedom and justice, dignity and equality, privacy and autonomy in our personal lives, in our sexual lives, we will find it very hard to achieve in public life. The political and the sexual are intimate bedfellows, and that is true for us all. no matter where we live and love. Thank you. (Applause)"	不久之前我在摩洛哥的卡薩布蘭卡 (Casablanca)遇到一位叫法伊札（Faiza）的未婚年經媽媽她給我看她襁保中兒子的照片跟我說她從受孕、懷胎到生產的經過 聼來挺精采的但法伊札把最妙的部分留到最後她說「妳知道我還是處女嗎?」「我有兩份診斷證明」 這發生在現代的中東地區2千年後的耶穌誕生地還是有處女產子的事 我在阿拉伯地區巡講性事多年她的故事只是我聽過的數百件之一這工作聽來或許好到不像真的以職業來說也引人猜疑 但我做這行是有其他原因的我是回教徒，有一半埃及血統卻在離阿拉伯家鄉很遠的加拿大成長 就像許多兼具東西文化背景的人這些年我被自己的原生文化吸引，試圖深入了解之所以研究性事，是因為我在寫作、研究及社運中所觸及的愛滋病現況全球仍在升溫的2個愛滋疫區中，中東和北非是其一而愛滋病正在這兩地蔓延 性是很有效的檢視工具可用以研究任何社會因為性生活的經歷也反映在更龐大的勢力中，像是政治和經濟，宗教和傳統，性別和世代我發現，如果你真要了解一個民族就要從臥房內開始探究 儘管阿拉伯世界龐大多樣但有三條共同的底線是不容人以言行挑戰的 第一個是政治但 2011 年起在阿拉伯地區遍地開花的「阿拉伯之春」讓這事改觀了當新舊權貴階級盡力維持正常運作時上百萬人仍在抗爭企圖藉此改善生活 第二條底線是宗教但像穆斯林兄弟會這樣的組織崛起後政教目前是相互關聯的而且有些人開始質疑伊斯蘭教在公共與私生活中的定位 至於第三條底線嘛! 是個避諱的主題你們認為是什麼？ (聽眾) 性 大聲點，我聽不到 (聽眾) 性 再說一次，不要害臊 [聽眾] 性 沒錯，完全正確! 就是「性」!(笑聲)阿拉伯地區只容許婚姻中的性生活指的是雙親同意，宗教許可且向政府登記的婚姻婚姻是邁入成年的象徵不婚者不能搬出家裡也不能有性行為當然不該有小孩 這種社會體制就像一座牢不可破的堡壘抗拒譴責和替代選項除此外還有諸多禁忌反對婚前性行為，反對保險套反對墮胎，反對同性戀可說不勝枚舉! 法伊札就是活生生的例證她宣稱保有童真可不是一廂情願雖然該地區各大宗教都推崇婚前守貞不過在父權社會，狗改不了吃屎男人婚前有性行為人們多少都視而不見 但女人可不能這樣她們在新婚夜前都該是處女換句話說，此前要保有處女膜「完璧」這不單是個人問題還關係著家族聲譽，尤其是男人的 所以女人和她們的親戚會不惜一切維護這一小片生理構造從女性割禮到處女鑑定或處女膜重建術都有人用 不過法伊札採取其他方式非陰道性行為只是最後她還是懷孕了但法伊札本來不知道這點因為學校幾乎沒有性教育家裡也很少談這個 事跡敗露後法伊札的母親幫她逃脫父兄這是因為在阿拉伯地區，「名譽殺人」是數不清的女性面臨的真實威脅當法伊札因臨盆被送進卡薩布蘭卡的醫院時那位幫她的男子竟企圖強暴她 可悲的是，這不是特例在埃及，也就是我主要研究的區域我在醫院內外見過很多麻煩事很多年輕男性沒錢結婚因為婚姻已成為代價昂貴的事婚後他們要負擔家庭開銷但又找不到工作這就是最近暴動的主因之一也是造成大部分阿拉伯地區晚婚的原因之一 偏偏渴望婚姻的職業婦女找不到對象因為她們不符合典型的性別角色就像突尼西亞的一位年輕女醫生對我說的:「女人變得更開放，但男人依然食古不化！」 還有人跨越異性戀的藩籬進行同性間性行為或者產生不同的性別認同因為行為舉止，甚至外表他們被迫承受法律制裁還得日復一日抗拒社會加諸其身的汙名及家人的絕望疏離更還有來自信仰的譴責與煎熬 不過，婚後性生活也不全然美滿希望婚姻生活更快樂性生活更滿足的夫妻往往不得要領尤其是妻子，害怕在床上熱情如火會被當成壞女人 還有假結婚真賣淫的常見女性被家人賣給富有的阿拉伯旅客這只是冰山一角，事實上性交易在阿拉伯一帶日益猖獗 若這些事在你們那裏也常聽過請你舉個手看來對性事傷腦筋的不只阿拉伯人 儘管沒有阿拉伯版的《金賽報告》（Kinsey Reports）顯示阿拉伯地區性生活的概況但顯然有些不對勁!對男性和女性有雙重標準性事令人羞恥家族限制個人選擇表象與事實間落差很大例如人們的所做所為和願意坦承的部分間即是如此人們通常寧可竊竊私語也不願長期公開嚴肅地討論 有一位開羅醫生是這麼跟我說的:「在這裡，性跟運動相反大家都會討論足球但幾乎沒人在踢但儘管大家有性經驗卻人人難以啟齒。」 (笑聲) (阿拉伯語旁白的音樂) 我想給大家一個忠告如果照著做，你們的生活就會變得快樂 當先生對妳起了「性」趣撫摸妳身體某部位時長吁一口氣，並渴望地看著他 當他的陰莖插入時試著淫聲浪語一番，並用身體配合他 很辛辣！這些實用的竅門聽來或許像是出自 (The Joy of Sex ) 或YouPorn網站但其實是10世紀的一本阿拉伯書《歡愉百科》(The Encyclopedia of Pleasure)所提到的內容有催情劑和人獸交和其它性事 這還只是阿拉伯冗長色情書單的一本而已其中大多是宗教學者編著的回溯先知穆罕默德的時代那時伊斯蘭信仰中早有坦然議論性事的深厚傳統不只談性疑惑，還有性快感且迎合兩性的觀點需求1000年前，阿拉伯曾有多部性典內容涵蓋各種與性相關的專題體位、性癖和其他眾多詞彙豐富的語言足以勾勒出這幅插圖中的女體 不過在阿拉伯地區這段來歷至今鮮為人知即便是受過良好教育者，也常覺得用外語談性比母語自在現代性生活的概況與早已歷經性革命的歐美十分相近 儘管西方對性已開放我們發現，阿拉伯社會卻似乎反其道而行以埃及和許多鄰國而言性這方面的封閉源自更廣泛的政治、社會和文化上的閉鎖思想是複雜的歷史演進所造成的70年代晚期，伊斯蘭保守勢力崛起後這樣的趨勢逐漸占上風任何對既有性文化的挑戰全世界保守勢力的反應是「拒絕就對了!」在阿拉伯地區，相關企圖被醜化為西方世界的陰謀目的是破壞傳統的阿拉伯和伊斯蘭價值但問題關鍵在於以宗教包裝性議題是保守勢力最有力的掌控方式 但歷史告訴我們，即便我們父親或祖父輩那樣的近代也曾有過更務實的觀點更多包容且願接納不同詮釋舉凡墮胎，自慰，甚至備受爭議的同性戀議題事情並非保守派要我們相信的那樣絕對就像其他事一樣，伊斯蘭信仰在性方面至少還有《葛雷的50道陰影》(笑聲)譯註:《葛雷的50道陰影》（Fifty Shades of Grey）是情色小說 在阿拉伯一帶旅行時我遇過以各種途徑探討性事的男女有試圖協助夫妻達成美滿婚姻的性學家正力圖促成學校性教育的創新人士形形色色的男女女同志、男同志、不認同生理性別者和變性者藉由網路倡議和實際支援凝聚志同道合的人很多女性和越來越多男性開始公然抗拒家庭與公共場所的性暴力也有協助性工作者預防愛滋病等職災的團體還有幫助法伊札這樣的未婚媽媽立足社會讓她們可跟小孩待在一塊的非政府組織 目前這些行動規模不大，也缺乏資助所面臨的反對勢力也很難應付但我相信假以時日隨著時代改變，這些人和他們的想法終會得到認同針鋒相對無法帶動阿拉伯地區的社會變遷義憤填膺或袒胸裸露也於事無補協商反而可靠 我們此刻談的不是性革命而是仿效其他地區的性進化因地制宜後獨樹一格，而非蕭規曹隨但願這條路會帶我們找回身體自主權並能利用相關資訊和服務成就安全美滿的性生活還有自由表達的權力以及婚姻和伴侶選擇的自由自決是否要規律的性生活?要不要生小孩，何時生不要有暴力，強迫，或歧視 目前阿拉伯離此目標還很遠很多地方需要改變法律、教育、醫事、經濟難以勝數這至少要一個世代才能完成 但我的巡講算是個起頭這當中我對傳承下來的性知識提出很多難以回答的問題旅程中見到原本一體適用的真理也納入種種可能後， 我更加相信和欣賞地方的歷史文化 在許多阿拉伯國家動盪不安的時候還要討論性事，挑戰禁忌尋求替代方案像是癡人說夢 但目前對歷史而言至關重要如果我們不穩固私生活和性生活的自由、正當、尊嚴、平等隱私和自主公共生活上就更別談這些了! 無論我們身處何方，寄情何處政治和性關係密切，放諸四海皆準 謝謝 (掌聲)
