Talk	en	zh-tw
shigeru_ban_emergency_shelters_made_from_paper	"Hi. I am an architect. I am the only architect in the world making buildings out of paper like this cardboard tube, and this exhibition is the first one I did using paper tubes. 1986, much, much longer before people started talking about ecological issues and environmental issues, I just started testing the paper tube in order to use this as a building structure. It's very complicated to test the new material for the building, but this is much stronger than I expected, and also it's very easy to waterproof, and also, because it's industrial material, it's also possible to fireproof. Then I built the temporary structure, 1990. This is the first temporary building made out of paper. There are 330 tubes, diameter 55 [centimeters], there are only 12 tubes with a diameter of 120 centimeters, or four feet, wide. As you see it in the photo, inside is the toilet. In case you're finished with toilet paper, you can tear off the inside of the wall. (Laughter) So it's very useful. Year 2000, there was a big expo in Germany. I was asked to design the building, because the theme of the expo was environmental issues. So I was chosen to build the pavilion out of paper tubes, recyclable paper. My goal of the design is not when it's completed. My goal was when the building was demolished, because each country makes a lot of pavilions but after half a year, we create a lot of industrial waste, so my building has to be reused or recycled. After, the building was recycled. So that was the goal of my design. Then I was very lucky to win the competition to build the second Pompidou Center in France in the city of Metz. Because I was so poor, I wanted to rent an office in Paris, but I couldn't afford it, so I decided to bring my students to Paris to build our office on top of the Pompidou Center in Paris by ourselves. So we brought the paper tubes and the wooden joints to complete the 35-meter-long office. We stayed there for six years without paying any rent. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. I had one big problem. Because we were part of the exhibition, even if my friend wanted to see me, they had to buy a ticket to see me. That was the problem. Then I completed the Pompidou Center in Metz. It's a very popular museum now, and I created a big monument for the government. But then I was very disappointed at my profession as an architect, because we are not helping, we are not working for society, but we are working for privileged people, rich people, government, developers. They have money and power. Those are invisible. So they hire us to visualize their power and money by making monumental architecture. That is our profession, even historically it's the same, even now we are doing the same. So I was very disappointed that we are not working for society, even though there are so many people who lost their houses by natural disasters. But I must say they are no longer natural disasters. For example, earthquakes never kill people, but collapse of the buildings kill people. That's the responsibility of architects. Then people need some temporary housing, but there are no architects working there because we are too busy working for privileged people. So I thought, even as architects, we can be involved in the reconstruction of temporary housing. We can make it better. So that is why I started working in disaster areas. 1994, there was a big disaster in Rwanda, Africa. Two tribes, Hutu and Tutsi, fought each other. Over two million people became refugees. But I was so surprised to see the shelter, refugee camp organized by the U.N. They're so poor, and they are freezing with blankets during the rainy season, In the shelters built by the U.N., they were just providing a plastic sheet, and the refugees had to cut the trees, and just like this. But over two million people cut trees. It just became big, heavy deforestation and an environmental problem. That is why they started providing aluminum pipes, aluminum barracks. Very expensive, they throw them out for money, then cutting trees again. So I proposed my idea to improve the situation using these recycled paper tubes because this is so cheap and also so strong, but my budget is only 50 U.S. dollars per unit. We built 50 units to do that as a monitoring test for the durability and moisture and termites, so on. And then, year afterward, 1995, in Kobe, Japan, we had a big earthquake. Nearly 7,000 people were killed, and the city like this Nagata district, all the city was burned in a fire after the earthquake. And also I found out there's many Vietnamese refugees suffering and gathering at a Catholic church — all the building was totally destroyed. So I went there and also I proposed to the priests, ""Why don't we rebuild the church out of paper tubes?"" And he said, ""Oh God, are you crazy? After a fire, what are you proposing?"" So he never trusted me, but I didn't give up. I started commuting to Kobe, and I met the society of Vietnamese people. They were living like this with very poor plastic sheets in the park. So I proposed to rebuild. I raised — did fundraising. I made a paper tube shelter for them, and in order to make it easy to be built by students and also easy to demolish, I used beer crates as a foundation. I asked the Kirin beer company to propose, because at that time, the Asahi beer company made their plastic beer crates red, which doesn't go with the color of the paper tubes. The color coordination is very important. And also I still remember, we were expecting to have a beer inside the plastic beer crate, but it came empty. (Laughter) So I remember it was so disappointing. So during the summer with my students, we built over 50 units of the shelters. Finally the priest, finally he trusted me to rebuild. He said, ""As long as you collect money by yourself, bring your students to build, you can do it."" So we spent five weeks rebuilding the church. It was meant to stay there for three years, but actually it stayed there 10 years because people loved it. Then, in Taiwan, they had a big earthquake, and we proposed to donate this church, so we dismantled them, we sent them over to be built by volunteer people. It stayed there in Taiwan as a permanent church even now. So this building became a permanent building. Then I wonder, what is a permanent and what is a temporary building? Even a building made in paper can be permanent as long as people love it. Even a concrete building can be very temporary if that is made to make money. In 1999, in Turkey, the big earthquake, I went there to use the local material to build a shelter. 2001, in West India, I built also a shelter. In 2004, in Sri Lanka, after the Sumatra earthquake and tsunami, I rebuilt Islamic fishermen's villages. And in 2008, in Chengdu, Sichuan area in China, nearly 70,000 people were killed, and also especially many of the schools were destroyed because of the corruption between the authority and the contractor. I was asked to rebuild the temporary church. I brought my Japanese students to work with the Chinese students. In one month, we completed nine classrooms, over 500 square meters. It's still used, even after the current earthquake in China. In 2009, in Italy, L'Aquila, also they had a big earthquake. And this is a very interesting photo: former Prime Minister Berlusconi and Japanese former former former former Prime Minister Mr. Aso — you know, because we have to change the prime minister ever year. And they are very kind, affording my model. I proposed a big rebuilding, a temporary music hall, because L'Aquila is very famous for music and all the concert halls were destroyed, so musicians were moving out. So I proposed to the mayor, I'd like to rebuild the temporary auditorium. He said, ""As long as you bring your money, you can do it."" And I was very lucky. Mr. Berlusconi brought G8 summit, and our former prime minister came, so they helped us to collect money, and I got half a million euros from the Japanese government to rebuild this temporary auditorium. Year 2010 in Haiti, there was a big earthquake, but it's impossible to fly over, so I went to Santo Domingo, next-door country, to drive six hours to get to Haiti with the local students in Santo Domingo to build 50 units of shelter out of local paper tubes. This is what happened in Japan two years ago, in northern Japan. After the earthquake and tsunami, people had to be evacuated in a big room like a gymnasium. But look at this. There's no privacy. People suffer mentally and physically. So we went there to build partitions with all the student volunteers with paper tubes, just a very simple shelter out of the tube frame and the curtain. However, some of the facility authority doesn't want us to do it, because, they said, simply, it's become more difficult to control them. But it's really necessary to do it. They don't have enough flat area to build standard government single-story housing like this one. Look at this. Even civil government is doing such poor construction of the temporary housing, so dense and so messy because there is no storage, nothing, water is leaking, so I thought, we have to make multi-story building because there's no land and also it's not very comfortable. So I proposed to the mayor while I was making partitions. Finally I met a very nice mayor in Onagawa village in Miyagi. He asked me to build three-story housing on baseball [fields]. I used the shipping container and also the students helped us to make all the building furniture to make them comfortable, within the budget of the government but also the area of the house is exactly the same, but much more comfortable. Many of the people want to stay here forever. I was very happy to hear that. Now I am working in New Zealand, Christchurch. About 20 days before the Japanese earthquake happened, also they had a big earthquake, and many Japanese students were also killed, and the most important cathedral of the city, the symbol of Christchurch, was totally destroyed. And I was asked to come to rebuild the temporary cathedral. So this is under construction. And I'd like to keep building monuments that are beloved by people. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	大家好！我是一個建築師。我也是世界上唯一用這樣的紙管來作建築的建築師，這是我第一個用紙管做的展覽。1986年，當年還沒有很多人在討論有關生態與環境的議題的時候，我就開始測試，用紙管來作建築架構。嘗試用新的物料去做建築是一件很複雜的事情，不過這比我想像中堅固，而且它非常防水，因為它是工業用的物料，它又能防火。 1990 年，我建造了一個臨時的建構。這是第一個用紙建造出來的臨時建築。那裡用了 330 支直徑 55（公分）的紙管，還有 12 支 120 公分直徑，大約是四尺寬的管子。就像你所看到的這一張照片，裡面是一間厠所。假設你用完了衛生紙，你可以就在裡面撕來用。（笑聲）看，它實在是非常實用。 2000 年，德國有一個大型的博覽會。我應邀去設計建築，因為那個博展會的主題是環境議題。所以我選擇建造一所紙管築成的展示館，用的是循環再用紙。我設計的目的不是在於將它完成。而是在建築被拆的時候，因為每一個國家都會建造許多的展示館但是半年之後，那都將會成為一大堆工業廢料，所以我的建築一定要是可以翻用或者循環再用的。往後，建築被循環再用了。這就是我做設計的原意。 當年，我幸運地贏了比賽在法國的梅思城 (Metz)，建築了第二個龐畢度中心。因為我當時很窮，但我又想在巴黎有一個辦公室，可是我負擔不來，所以我決定帶我的學生到巴黎，在巴黎的龐畢度中心的頂層建立起我的辦公室。因此我們帶了一些紙管和木結合完成了我們 35 米長的辦公室。我們在那裡待了六年，不用付任何的房租。 （笑聲）（掌聲） 謝謝。可是，我還是有一個大難題。因為，我們也是展覽的一部分，所以我的朋友要是來看我，她／他們都需要買票。這可真是一個難題。 當我完成了梅思的龐畢度中心。它現在已經是一所出名的博物館，而且我還為政府設計一所龐大的紀念館。 可是當時我感到非常失望因為我作為一位專業的建築師卻沒有為社會作出什麼貢獻，我們都在為特權的人士服務，那些富人，政府及發展商們。他們有錢又有勢力。可那些都是不易被看見的。於是，他們聘請我們來建立紀念館式的建築去展視他們的財富與權力。這就是我們的專業，儘管在過去的歷史發展中，它還是一樣，直到現在，我們依然做著同樣的事情。我為了我們不曾為社會做事情而失望，儘管世界上有那麼多人因為天災而痛失家園。我一定要說的是，沒有天然災害。舉個例子，地震永遠不會殺人，可是倒塌的建築物卻殺了人。這實在是建築師的責任。當人們需要一些臨時房屋，卻沒有建築師為了她／他們工作，我們都在忙著為特權人士服務。我想，建築師們其實也可以加入參與重建臨時房屋的行列，把它做的更好。這是為什麼我開始在災區工作。 1994 年，在非洲的盧旺達有一場大災難。兩個部族：胡圖和圖西族互相屠殺。有超過兩百萬人因此成為難民。可是，當我看見那些由聯合國管理的庇護中心和難民營的時候，看見那些難民多可憐，她／他們都快要冷得結冰了，在雨季裡，她／他們只有包著毛毯，在聯合國的庇護中心內，她／他們只有塑料的墊子，難民需要去砍樹，就像這樣。不過，當超過兩百萬的人在砍樹，那將會變成一場很嚴重的滅林和帶來很多環境問題。這是為什麼他們開始供應(不清潔的）管子和兵營。那是非常昂貴的，於是他們又停了發款，於是，難民們又開始砍樹。我提出我的構思去改善這個情況，建議他們用循環再用的紙管因為這是很平宜而又堅韌的物料，在我的預算裡，一個單位只需要 50 美金。我們建造了 50 個單位來作耐用、濕度及白蟻...等等的監控測試。 1995 年，在日本的神戶，我們又發生一場很嚴重的地震。接近 7000 人遇難，整個城市像這個長田區，在地震之後，整個城市都在大火之中。同時，我發現那裡有很多越南難民在一所天主教教堂裡聚集所有的建築物都已經完全被摧毀。 我到了那裡，向神父提出建議，“為什麼我們不用紙管來重建教堂？” 可是他說：“哦，上帝喔，你是不是精神有問題？經過一場大火之後，你還要提出這個嗎？“ 他沒有相信我，可是我沒有放棄。我開始在神戶把社區聯繫起來，我去見了越南社團的人。他們就是這樣依靠塑料的墊子在公園裡面生活。我跟他們建議重建。我去籌款，而且籌到了錢。幫他們用紙管建立起了庇護中心，這個讓學生們很容易的把它建立起來，也能輕易的拆除，我用啤酒的板條箱做地基。我問了 Kirin 啤酒公司因為那個時候，Asahi 啤酒公司已經開始用紅色的塑料啤酒板條箱，這個跟紙筒的顏色不配。要知道喔，顏色的配合是非常重要的。我還是記得，我們會期待在啤酒板條箱裡會找到剩下來的啤酒，可是，它總是空空的。（笑聲）那曾經是多麼令人沮喪的！在夏天，我跟學生們在一起，我們建成了超過 50 個庇護中心單位。 最後，神父終於相信我們，讓我們進行重建。他說：“當你籌到需要的錢，你和你的學生就去開始吧。” 我們花了五個星期去重建教會。那本來說好是用三年的，但實際上，它已經被用上了十年，人們都很喜歡。後來台灣發生了一場嚴重的地震，我們建議捐出這所教會，所以我們把它拆卸了，送往台灣，再由志願人士把它建立起來。至今，它在台灣已經成為了一所永久的教會。這些建築成為了永久的建築。 然而，我卻開始疑惑，到底什麼建築是永久的，什麼是臨時的呢？一座建築儘管是紙做的，可是只要人們喜歡，它就可以成為永久的。而一座為了賺錢而建立的堅固的建築，它也可以是臨時的。 1999 年， 在土耳其有一場大地震，我到了那裡，用了當地的物料去建庇護中心。2001 年，在西印度， 我也建了另一所。2004 年，在斯里蘭卡發生蘇門答臘地震，還有海嘯之後，我建立了一條伊斯蘭漁民的鄉村。 2008 年，在中國四川的成都，接近 70,000 人（在地震中）死亡，當中有很多人是因為當地官商勾結的問題學校倒塌而死亡。我被要求去重建臨時的教會。我帶了我的日本學生去跟中國學生們一起工作。在一個月內，我們就完成了九個超過 500 平房米的課室。縱使在最近中國發生的地震過後，它們還在被使用著。 2009 年，在義大利拉魁拉也發生了一場大地震。這是一張很有趣的照片：（義大利的）前總理貝盧斯科尼和日本的前前前前首相麻生太郎你知道嗎，我們是必須在每年都更換首相的。他們都很善良，接受我的模型。我建議了一項大型的重建，一個臨時的音樂廳，因為拉魁拉是一個音樂很出名的地方但是，所有的表演廳都被毀了，音樂師們只能遷出。 所以，我向市長建議，我希望可以重建一所臨時的會堂。他說：“當你籌到所需要的錢，你就開始吧。”我當時很幸運。貝盧斯科尼在帶領了 G8 峰會，和我們的前首相來，他們幫忙我們籌款，而我又從日本政府處帶來了 50 萬歐元去重建這一所臨時會堂。 2010 年，在海地有一場大地震，那時候，我們根本沒辦法坐飛機過去，只有從隔壁的國家聖多明哥，開了六個小時的車到了海地，跟當地的學生在聖多明哥用紙管建造出 50 個庇護中心單位。 這是兩年前，在日本北部發生的。在地震和海嘯之後，人們需要遷到一個大的空間，像體育館。可是，請看看這一張，他們完全沒有隱私。人們是同時承受著肉體和精神上的創傷。所以，我們在那裡跟所有的志願學生用紙管建立起屏風，只是用框架架起地毯，就能變成了簡單的庇護所。無奈，一些設施管理層不想我們這樣做，因為，他們說，簡單來說，那讓他們變得更難去控制管理。可是，當時真的有這樣做的需要。 因為他們沒有足夠的空間去建立像這樣的政府標準單層房子。看這一張，地區政府正在建造一些結構很差的臨時住房，那裡沒有儲物處...漏水，太密集和混雜的，因為現場的地方不足又不是很舒適，我想我們必須去建立多層建築， 於是，當我在做屏風的時候，我就把建議告訴市長。最終，我在宮城縣的女川遇上了一位很好商量的市長。他讓我在籃球場上建立起三層高的房屋。我用了貨櫃箱還有，學生幫我們完成了所有的建築及準備傢俬讓房子不僅能夠在政府提供的預算內完工，還變得更舒適。那是跟區內其他房子一模一樣，而同時又更舒適的。很多人說想永遠的住下去。我很興奮聽到這樣的話。 現在，我正在新西蘭的基督城裡工作。大約就在日本地震發生前 20 天，那裡也發生了一場大地震，有許多的日本學生在當中遇難，城裡最重要的天主教堂，基督城的象徵也都被徹底的毀滅了。我被叫來重建一所臨時的天主教堂。 這個還在建築當中。我希望我能保存人們所愛的不朽建築。 非常感謝！ （掌聲） 謝謝（掌聲） 非常感謝！ （掌聲）
