Talk	en	zh-tw
shih_chieh_huang_sculptures_that_d_be_at_home_at_the_bottom_of_the_ocean	I was born in Taiwan. I grew up surrounded by different types of hardware stores, and I like going to night markets. I love the energy of the night markets, the colors, the lights, the toys, and all the unexpected things I find every time I go, things like watermelon with straw antennas or puppies with mohawks. When I was growing up, I liked taking toys apart, any kind of toys I'd find around the house, like my brother's BB gun when he's not home. I also liked to make environments for people to explore and play. In these early installations, I would take plastic sheets, plastic bags, and things I would find in the hardware store or around the house. I would take things like highlighter pen, mix it with water, pump it through plastic tubing, creating these glowing circulatory systems for people to walk through and enjoy. I like these materials because of the way they look, the way they feel, and they're very affordable. I also liked to make devices that work with body parts. I would take camera LED lights and a bungee cord and strap it on my waist and I would videotape my belly button, get a different perspective, and see what it does. (Laughter) I also like to modify household appliances. This is an automatic night light. Some of you might have them at home. I would cut out the light sensor, add an extension line, and use modeling clay, stick it onto the television, and then I would videotape my eye, and using the dark part of my eye tricking the sensor into thinking it's night time, so you turn on the lightbulb. The white of the eye and the eyelid will trick the sensor into thinking it's daytime, and it will shut off the light. I wanted to collect more different types of eyes, so I built this device using bicycle helmets, some lightbulbs and television sets. It would be easier for other people to wear the helmet and record their eyes. This device allows me to symbolically extract other people's eyes, so I have a diversity of eyes to use for my other sculptures. This sculpture has four eyes. Each eye is controlling a different device. This eye is turning itself around in a television. This eye is inflating a plastic tube. This eye is watching a video of another piece being made. And these two eyes are activating glowing water. Many of these pieces are later on shown in museums, biennials, triennial exhibitions around the world. I love science and biology. In 2007, I was doing a research fellowship at the Smithsonian Natural History Museum looking at bioluminous organisms in the oean. I love these creatures. I love the way they look, the way they feel. They're soft, they're slimy, and I was fascinated by the way they use light in their environment, either to attract mates, for self-defense, or to attract food. This research inspired my work in many different ways, things like movement or different light patterns. So I started gathering a lot of different types of material in my studio and just experimenting and trying this out, trying that out, and seeing what types of creatures I can come up with. I used a lot of computer cooling fans and just kind of put them together and see what happens. This is an 8,000-square-foot installation composed of many different creatures, some hanging from the ceiling and some resting on the floor. From afar, they look alien-like, but when you look closer, they're all made out of black garbage bags or Tupperware containers. I'd like to share with you how ordinary things can become something magical and wondrous. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)	我在台灣出生我成長於一個擁有各式五金行商家的環境我也很喜歡逛夜市我很愛夜市的那股活力以及，它的五光十色和玩具還有我每次去，所發現的新鮮事物比如，插著吸管天線的西瓜或者，擁有紅毛莫霍克髮型的小狗成長歲月裡，我喜歡拆解玩具任何我可以在家裡找到的玩具像是趁我兄弟不在家時，偷拿他的BB槍 我也喜歡製作場景讓人們去探索及玩耍這些早期的佈景裝置我會使用塑料布、塑膠袋以及，我在五金行或家裡可以找到的東西我會使用一些東西，像螢光筆與水混合，灌入塑膠管打造出這些會發光的循環系統供人們穿梭及欣賞我喜歡這些素材，因為它們的外觀它們的觸感，以及價格非常實惠 我也喜歡做一些可和身體部位互動的裝置我會拿相機的 LED 燈和彈性鬆緊繩，繫在我的腰上然後，我會錄影我的肚臍用一個另類的角度來觀察肚臍的樣貌（笑聲） 我也喜歡改裝家庭用品這是一個自動感應的小夜燈在座應該有人家裡也有我會切掉光感應的部分加上一條延長線接著使用模型黏土將它黏在電視機上然後我會錄我自己的眼睛藉由我的黑眼球混淆感應裝置，讓它以為是晚上所以，可以讓燈亮起來眼白和眼皮的部份則讓感應誤以為現在是白天所以，感應裝置會關上燈 我想要蒐集更多不同的眼睛所以，我發明了這個運用單車安全帽和一些燈泡及電視的裝置以便於其他人戴上安全帽以及，錄影他們的眼睛這個裝置也讓我得以將其他人的眼睛圖像化我因此擁有各式各樣的眼睛可用於我的其他作品這個作品有四個眼睛每隻眼睛控管著另外一個的裝置這隻眼睛在電視機裡轉動著這隻眼睛則對著一個塑膠管灌氣中這隻眼睛在看電視，關於另外一個裝置的發明過程這兩隻眼睛可以啟動螢光水的裝置許多發明，後來都被展示於博物館，雙年展，以及三年展於世界各地。 我熱愛科學和生物學2007 時，我在史密森自然歷史博物館鑽研一個獎學金研究觀察海洋裡的發光生物體我很愛這些生物，我很喜歡牠們的外型和觸感牠們很柔軟，而且很光滑我很著迷牠們自身發光的方式在牠們的成長環境裡不論是為了求偶，自我保衛或者，吸引獵物這份研究啟發我很多關於作品的創作方式比如：作品的移動方式， 或者不同的光線變化所以，我開始在我的工作室蒐集大量不同類型的素材進行實驗試試這個，試試那個看看我能發明出什麼樣的東西我使用了很多電腦的風扇然後，試圖將風扇置入裝置 看看會發生什麼事這是一個8千平方英尺的裝置由許多不同的發明共同組成有些吊在天花版，有一些則置放在地上從遠處觀看，它們很像外星人但當你走進看，它們全部由黑色垃圾袋或保鮮盒組成 我想與您分享，平凡無奇的事物可以如何轉化成一些很神奇魔幻的事物（掌聲）謝謝大家（掌聲）
