Talk	en	zh-tw
shilo_shiv_suleman_using_tech_to_enable_dreaming	"My story begins right here actually in Rajasthan about two years ago. I was in the desert, under the starry skies with the Sufi singer Mukhtiar Ali. And we were in conversation about how nothing had changed since the time of the ancient Indian epic ""The Mahabharata."" So back in the day, when us Indians wanted to travel we'd jump into a chariot and we'd zoom across the sky. Now we do the same with airplanes. Back then, when Arjuna, the great Indian warrior prince, when he was thirsty, he'd take out a bow, he'd shoot it into the ground and water would come out. Now we do the same with drills and machines. The conclusion that we came to was that magic had been replaced by machinery. And this made me really sad. I found myself becoming a little bit of a technophobe. I was terrified by this idea that I would lose the ability to enjoy and appreciate the sunset without having my camera on me, without tweeting it to my friends. And it felt like technology should enable magic, not kill it. When I was a little girl, my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch. And this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing to me. It became a gilded gateway into a world full of pirates and shipwrecks and images in my imagination. So I felt like our cellphones and our fancy watches and our cameras had stopped us from dreaming. They stopped us from being inspired. And so I jumped in, I jumped into this world of technology, to see how I could use it to enable magic as opposed to kill it. I've been illustrating books since I was 16. And so when I saw the iPad, I saw it as a storytelling device that could connect readers all over the world. It can know how we're holding it. It can know where we are. It brings together image and text and animation and sound and touch. Storytelling is becoming more and more multi-sensorial. But what are we doing with it? So I'm actually just going to go in and launch Khoya, an interactive app for the iPad. So it says, ""Place your fingers upon each light."" And so — (Music) It says, ""This box belongs to ... "" And so I type in my name. And actually I become a character in the book. At various points, a little letter drops down to me — and the iPad knows where you live because of GPS — which is actually addressed to me. The child in me is really excited by these kinds of possibilities. Now I've been talking a lot about magic. And I don't mean wizards and dragons, I mean the kind of childhood magic, those ideas that we all harbored as children. This idea of fireflies in a jar, for some reason, was always really exciting to me. And so over here you need to tilt your iPad, take the fireflies out. And they actually illuminate your way through the rest of the book. Another idea that really fascinated me as a child was that an entire galaxy could be contained within a single marble. And so over here, each book and each world becomes a little marble that I drag in to this magical device within the device. And it opens up a map. All along, all fantasy books have always had maps, but these maps have been static. This is a map that grows and glows and becomes your navigation for the rest of the book. It reveals itself to you at certain points in the book as well. So I'm just going to enter in. Another thing that's actually really important to me is creating content that is Indian and yet very contemporary. Over here, these are the Apsaras. So we've all heard about fairies and we've all heard about nymphs, but how many people outside of India know about their Indian counterparts, the Apsaras? These poor Apsaras have been trapped inside Indra's chambers for thousands of years in an old and musty book. And so we're bringing them back in a contemporary story for children. And a story that actually deals with new issues like the environmental crisis. (Music) Speaking of the environmental crisis, I think a big problem has been in the last 10 years is that children have been locked inside their rooms, glued to their PCs, they haven't been able to get out. But now with mobile technology, we can actually take our children outside into the natural world with their technology. One of the interactions in the book is that you're sent off on this quest where you need to go outside, take out your camera on the iPad and collect pictures of different natural objects. When I was a child, I had multiple collections of sticks and stones and pebbles and shells. And somehow kids don't do that anymore. So in bringing back this childhood ritual, you need to go out and, in one chapter, take a picture of a flower and then tag it. In another chapter, you need to take a picture of a piece of bark and then tag that. And what happens is that you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put up online. A child in London puts up a picture of a fox and says, ""Oh, I saw a fox today."" A child in India says, ""I saw a monkey today."" And it creates this kind of social network around a collection of digital photographs that you've actually taken. In the possibilities of linking together magic, the earth and technology, there are multiple possibilities. In the next book, we plan on having an interaction where you take your iPad out with the video on and through augmented reality, you see this layer of animated pixies appear on a houseplant that's outside your house. At one point, your screen is filled up with leaves. And so you need to make the sound of wind and blow them away and read the rest of the book. We're moving, we're all moving here, to a world where the forces of nature come closer together to technology, and magic and technology can come closer together. We're harnessing energy from the sun. We're bringing our children and ourselves closer to the natural world and that magic and joy and childhood love that we had through the simple medium of a story. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我的故事實際上開始在拉賈斯坦大約在二年前我在沙漠裡，在星空下和蘇菲歌手 Mukhtiar Ali.我們有一個談話關於沒有任何改變的現狀自從古印度史詩“摩訶婆羅多” 在以前，當我們印度人想旅行我們會跳上馬車，放大整個天空現在我們也用飛機這樣做當年當 Arjuna，印度偉大的戰士王子，當他口渴時，他拿出一隻弓他射向地面，而水湧了出來現在我們也這樣做用鑽孔機和機器 我們得到一個結論就是魔法被機器取代了這讓我非常難過我發現自己變得有點""科技恐懼""我被這個想法嚇壞了我失去了這個能力來享受和欣賞日落在沒有相機在身上，沒有推特給我們的朋友們這樣好像科技應該是啟動魔法，而不是消滅他 當我還是個小女孩我的祖父給我他的小銀色懷錶這個有50年歲科技的東西對我而言變成最具有魔法的東西他變成一個渡金的窗口通向一個充滿海盜與沉船和影像在我的想像裡所以我感覺到我們的手機和我們花俏的手錶和我們的相機已經讓我們停止作夢了他們阻止了我們的靈感所以我跳進去，跳進一個充滿科技的世界來看看我如何運用他來啟動魔法而不是要消滅他 從16歲我開始畫圖本而現在當我看到 iPad我認為他是一個說故事的裝置他可以連接整個世界的讀者他知道我們如何握住他他知道我們在那裡他可以同時有圖畫與文字和動畫與聲音和觸控說故事變成愈來愈多的感官刺激但我們能拿它做什麼？ 所以我開始開發 柯亞一個 iPad 上的互動式軟體所以它說：把你的手指放在每一個亮點上然後(音樂)它說：我個箱子屬於我打上我的名字然後，我變成書本的一個角色在不同點，一個小小字往下掉而 iPad 知道你住那裡，因為 GPS知道我正確的位址我的小孩非常興奮因為這些可能性 現在我已講了關於魔法的事我並不是指精靈和龍我是指一種童年的魔法當我們還是孩子時所懷著的想法因為某些原因，罐子裡的螢火蟲的想法總是令我興奮這裡你需要傾斜你的 iPad讓螢火蟲飛出來他們真的會照亮你的路徑通過書的另一邊 另一個想法在我是孩子時就已深深的著迷整個星系可能是被一個彈珠所包圍這裡的每本書，每個世界都變成一個小小的彈珠我拖曳到這個神奇的裝置它會開啟一張地圖隨著所有的童話書都有地圖但這些地圖是靜態的這是一張會成長和發亮的地圖而且變成這本書其他部分的領航圖它會向你揭示這本書上的某個特點現在我將要進去看看 另一件事真的是對我非常重要就是在印度創作這些內容還要具備現代感這裡，這些是飛天我們都聽過仙女，而且我們都聽過有關女神但有多少在印度以外的人知道有關他們印度相對應的人 ，飛天？這些可憐的飛天，千百年來一直被困在因陀羅的房間內在一個古老的發霉的書所以我們要把他們帶回在當代兒童的故事而一個故事，實際上涉及了新問題像是環境危機(音樂) 說到環境的危機我認為有一個大問題，在過去十年孩子們被鎖在他們的房間裡被電腦給粘住了，他們無法走出來但是現在的行動裝置科技我們可以運用他們的科技帶我們的孩子走向真實的世界本書其中的一個互動是你發送這個任務你需要到外面去開啟你 iPad 上的相機並收集不同的自然景色照片 當我還是個孩子，我有不同的蒐集木棍、石塊、鵝卵石和貝殼而現在的孩子都不做這些了所以帶回童年的儀式你必須走出去在第一章，要照一張花的照片然後標記在另一章，你需要照一張一塊樹皮的相片然後標記發生了什麼事實際上你做了一本數位相簿你可以放在網路上一個倫敦的孩子放了狐狸的相片並說：""啊，我今天看到一隻狐狸""一個印度的孩子說：""我今天看到一隻猴子""它創造了這樣的社群網路由數位相片所圍繞而成那是你親自照的 在連接這些魔法和地球及科技的可能有太多的可能性在下一本書，我們計畫有一個互動把你的 iPad 視頻打開透過這些現實你看到這一層的動畫室內盆栽出現在你的房子外面這時，你的螢幕充滿了葉子你需要發出風的聲音將他們吹開然後才能繼續閱讀本書 我們感動，我們這裡的每個人都感動到大自然的力量與科技緊密的結合而魔法與科技可以緊密的結合我們利用來自太陽的能量我們帶領我們的孩子和我們自己更接近大自然魔法和喜悅讓孩子們透過一個簡單的故事喜愛我們所擁有的各種事物 謝謝 掌聲"
