Talk	en	zh-tw
shimpei_takahashi_play_this_game_to_come_up_with_original_ideas	"Hello. I'm a toy developer. With a dream of creating new toys that have never been seen before, I began working at a toy company nine years ago. When I first started working there, I proposed many new ideas to my boss every day. However, my boss always asked if I had the data to prove it would sell, and asked me to think of product development after analyzing market data. Data, data, data. So I analyzed the market data before thinking of a product. However, I was unable to think of anything new at that moment. (Laughter) My ideas were unoriginal. I wasn't getting any new ideas and I grew tired of thinking. It was so hard that I became this skinny. (Laughter) It's true. (Applause) You've all probably had similar experiences and felt this way too. Your boss was being difficult. The data was difficult. You become sick of thinking. Now, I throw out the data. It's my dream to create new toys. And now, instead of data, I'm using a game called Shiritori to come up with new ideas. I would like to introduce this method today. What is Shiritori? Take apple, elephant  and trumpet, for example. It's a game where  you take turns saying words that start with the last letter of the previous word. It's the same in Japanese and English. You can play Shiritori as you like: ""neko, kora, raibu, burashi,"" etc, etc. [Cat, cola, concert, brush] Many random words will come out. You force those words to connect to what you want to think of and form ideas. In my case, for example, since I want to think of toys, what could a toy cat be? A cat that lands after doing a somersault from a high place? How about a toy with cola? A toy gun where you shoot cola and get someone soaking wet? (Laughter) Ridiculous ideas are okay. The key is to keep them flowing. The more ideas you produce, you're sure to come up with some good ones, too. A brush, for example. Can we make a toothbrush into a toy? We could combine a toothbrush with a guitar and — (Music noises) — you've got a toy you can play with while brushing your teeth. (Laughter) (Applause) Kids who don't like to brush their teeth might begin to like it. Can we make a hat into a toy? How about something like a roulette game, where you try the hat on one by one, and then, when someone puts it on, a scary alien breaks through the top screaming, ""Ahh!"" I wonder if there would be a demand for this at parties? Ideas that didn't come out while you stare at the data will start to come out. Actually, this bubble wrap, which is used to pack fragile objects, combined with a toy, made Mugen Pop Pop, a toy where you can pop the bubbles as much as you like. It was a big hit when it reached stores. Data had nothing to do with its success. Although it's only popping bubbles, it's a great way to kill time, so please pass this around amongst yourselves today and play with it. (Applause) Anyway, you continue to come up with useless ideas. Think up many trivial ideas, everyone. If you base your ideas on data analysis and know what you're aiming for, you'll end up trying too hard, and you can't produce new ideas. Even if you know what your aim is, think of ideas as freely as if you were throwing darts with your eyes closed. If you do this, you surely will hit somewhere near the center. At least one will. That's the one you should choose. If you do so, that idea will be in demand and, moreover, it will be brand new. That is how I think of new ideas. It doesn't have to be Shiritori; there are many different methods. You just have to choose words at random. You can flip through a dictionary and choose words at random. For example, you could look up two random letters and gather the results or go to the store and connect product names with what you want to think of. The point is to gather random words, not information from the category you're thinking for. If you do this, the ingredients for the association of ideas are collected and form connections that will produce many ideas. The greatest advantage to this method is the continuous flow of images. Because you're thinking of one word after another, the image of the previous word is still with you. That image will automatically be related with future words. Unconsciously, a concert will be connected to a brush and a roulette game will be connected to a hat. You wouldn't even realize it. You can come up with ideas that you wouldn't have thought of otherwise. This method is, of course, not just for toys. You can collect ideas for books, apps, events, and many other projects. I hope you all try this method. There are futures that are born from data. However, using this silly game called Shiritori, I look forward to the exciting future you will create, a future you couldn't even imagine. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	各位好。我是一名玩具研發員。一直以來我都夢想著創造出前無古人後無來者般的新玩具，於是九年前，我開始在一家玩具公司上班。當我剛入職的時，我每天都向上司提出許多新點子。可是我的上司總會問我，是否有數據能夠證明這些產品賣得出去，並且要求我分析了市場數據之後才開始考慮產品的研發。數據，數據，還是數據。 於是我便先分析市場數據，再考慮產品研發。然後，我當時根本想不出任何新點子。（笑聲）我的想法都不是原創的。我想不到新點子，並且開始厭倦了思考。那段時間真是折磨啊，我都瘦成這樣了。（笑聲）是真的哦。（掌聲） 或許在座各位都有過類似的經歷和相同的感受。你的上司很難取悅，而數據又難以分析。你開始厭倦思考。現在，我要拋開數據。我的夢想是創造出新玩具。但是現在，我不用市場數據，而是用一個叫做 Shiritori 的遊戲，來想出新點子。 今天我想把這個方法介紹給大家。Shiritori （文字接龍）是什麼？就拿蘋果、大猩猩、喇叭這三個詞舉例。在這個遊戲裡，你們要輪流說出一系列的日語詞彙，而新詞彙的第一個音節必須是前一個詞彙的最後一個音節。這個遊戲在日語和英語裡都可以玩。你可以以你喜歡的方式玩 Shiritori：“neko, kora, raibu, burashi, ” 諸如此類[日語：貓，可樂，演奏會，刷子]許多看似隨機的詞彙就會蹦出來。你將這些詞彙與你想要思考的東西聯繫起來，然後形成新點子。就拿我自己來說，我想要思考和玩具有關的，一個玩具貓可以是什麼樣的呢？一個可以從高空中翻筋斗、然後安然著地的貓咪？帶可樂的玩具，這個主意如何？一把可以用來發射可樂、把別人弄成落湯雞的玩具槍？（笑聲） 哪怕是荒唐的想法也沒關係，關鍵是要一直有新點子。你能想出的新點子越多，你就一定會有好點子。比如說，一把刷子。我們能不能將牙刷做成玩具呢？我們可以將牙刷與吉他結合，結果就是 ﹣（音樂響起） ﹣你刷牙的時候就有玩具可以玩啦。（笑聲）（掌聲）不喜歡刷牙的小孩可能會愛上刷牙哦。 我們能不能把帽子做成玩具呢？俄羅斯輪盤怎麼樣？你們可以輪流戴上帽子，然後輪到某個人時，突然有個可怕的外星生物衝破帽頂，尖叫道，“啊！”我猜想，各類派對會不會對這樣的產品有需求呢？ 你盯著數據看時無法獲取的想法，這樣一來便輕而易舉地出現了。實際上，用來保護易碎物品的氣泡膜可以與玩具結合，成為「無窮氣泡」，你就可以隨心所欲地按壓上面的氣泡。這個產品上架時便大紅大紫。它的成功和數據無關。儘管這個玩具只不過是擠壓氣泡而已，它不失為一個消磨時間的好方法，所以請四處傳遞一下這個玩具，以供在座各位賞玩。（掌聲） 但不管怎樣，你還是會有一些無用的想法。各位，想想那些不值一提的小點子。如果你只將點子基於數據分析，始終清楚地盯著一個目標看，那你一定會努力過了頭，反而想不出什麼新點子。即使你清楚地了解自己的目標，而且輕而易舉就能想到新點子也沒用。但如果你這樣做，你遲早會接近成功，至少有一個點子會成功。那就是你應該做出的選擇。如果你這樣做了，市場就會對那個點子產生需求，不僅如此，這就會是一個全新的點子。我就是這樣想出新點子的。 不一定是要通過玩 Shiritori；還有許多不同的方法。你需要做的，僅僅是隨機選出一些詞。你可以翻開一下字典，隨意選一些詞。比如說，你可以隨意查看兩個詞，然後把它們相結合，或者走進一家商店，把商品的名稱與你想要考慮的方向相結合。關鍵在於獲取隨機詞彙，而不是從你所想的分類中挑選信息。如果你這樣做，你就會獲得各種想法，並且形成一些列的關聯，從而產生許多新點子。這個方法最大的優勢在於有源源不斷流動的畫面。因為當你一個接著一個地想詞彙時，前一個詞所產生的圖片還存在於你的腦海中。那幅圖片將會與接下來的詞自動產生聯繫。不知不覺中，演唱會就和牙刷扯上了關係，輪盤就和帽子扯上了關係。你甚至都不會察覺到這個過程。你可以獲得那些前所未有的想法。 當然啦，這個方法不僅僅使用與玩具。你也可以為書籍、軟體應用、活動，以及其它各種計劃籌集想法。我希望你們都會試著去應用這個方法。有些未來的確誕生於數據。然後，有了這個名叫Shiritori 的傻遊戲，我很期待看到你們將會創造出的精彩未來，一個你們之前根本無法想像的未來。 非常感謝各位。 （掌聲）
