Talk	en	zh-tw
shlomo_benartzi_saving_more_tomorrow	"I'm going to talk today about saving more, but not today, tomorrow. I'm going to talk about Save More Tomorrow. It's a program that Richard Thaler from the University of Chicago and I devised maybe 15 years ago. The program, in a sense, is an example of behavioral finance on steroids — how we could really use behavioral finance. Now you might ask, what is behavioral finance? So let's think about how we manage our money. Let's start with mortgages. It's kind of a recent topic, at least in the U.S. A lot of people buy the biggest house they can afford, and actually slightly bigger than that. And then they foreclose. And then they blame the banks for being the bad guys who gave them the mortgages. Let's also think about how we manage risks — for example, investing in the stock market. Two years ago, three years ago, about four years ago, markets did well. We were risk takers, of course. Then market stocks seize and we're like, ""Wow. These losses, they feel, emotionally, they feel very different from what we actually thought about it when markets were going up."" So we're probably not doing a great job when it comes to risk taking. How many of you have iPhones? Anyone? Wonderful. I would bet many more of you insure your iPhone — you're implicitly buying insurance by having an extended warranty. What if you lose your iPhone? What if you do this? How many of you have kids? Anyone? Keep your hands up if you have sufficient life insurance. I see a lot of hands coming down. I would predict, if you're a representative sample, that many more of you insure your iPhones than your lives, even when you have kids. We're not doing that well when it comes to insurance. The average American household spends 1,000 dollars a year on lotteries. And I know it sounds crazy. How many of you spend a thousand dollars a year on lotteries? No one. So that tells us that the people not in this room are spending more than a thousand to get the average to a thousand. Low-income people spend a lot more than a thousand on lotteries. So where does it take us? We're not doing a great job managing money. Behavioral finance is really a combination of psychology and economics, trying to understand the money mistakes people make. And I can keep standing here for the 12 minutes and 53 seconds that I have left and make fun of all sorts of ways we manage money, and at the end you're going to ask, ""How can we help people?"" And that's what I really want to focus on today. How do we take an understanding of the money mistakes people make, and then turning the behavioral challenges into behavioral solutions? And what I'm going to talk about today is Save More Tomorrow. I want to address the issue of savings. We have on the screen a representative sample of 100 Americans. And we're going to look at their saving behavior. First thing to notice is, half of them do not even have access to a 401(k) plan. They cannot make savings easy. They cannot have money go away from their paycheck into a 401(k) plan before they see it, before they can touch it. What about the remaining half of the people? Some of them elect not to save. They're just too lazy. They never get around to logging into a complicated website and doing 17 clicks to join the 401(k) plan. And then they have to decide how they're going to invest in their 52 choices, and they never heard about what is a money market fund. And they get overwhelmed and the just don't join. How many people end up saving to a 401(k) plan? One third of Americans. Two thirds are not saving now. Are they saving enough? Take out those who say they save too little. One out of 10 are saving enough. Nine out of 10 either cannot save through their 401(k) plan, decide not to save — or don't decide — or save too little. We think we have a problem of people saving too much. Let's look at that. We have one person — well, actually we're going to slice him in half because it's less than one percent. Roughly half a percent of Americans feel that they save too much. What are we going to do about it? That's what I really want to focus on. We have to understand why people are not saving, and then we can hopefully flip the behavioral challenges into behavioral solutions, and then see how powerful it might be. So let me divert for a second as we're going to identify the problems, the challenges, the behavioral challenges, that prevent people from saving. I'm going to divert and talk about bananas and chocolate. Suppose we had another wonderful TED event next week. And during the break there would be a snack and you could choose bananas or chocolate. How many of you think you would like to have bananas during this hypothetical TED event next week? Who would go for bananas? Wonderful. I predict scientifically 74 percent of you will go for bananas. Well that's at least what one wonderful study predicted. And then count down the days and see what people ended up eating. The same people that imagined themselves eating the bananas ended up eating chocolates a week later. Self-control is not a problem in the future. It's only a problem now when the chocolate is next to us. What does it have to do with time and savings, this issue of immediate gratification? Or as some economists call it, present bias. We think about saving. We know we should be saving. We know we'll do it next year, but today let us go and spend. Christmas is coming, we might as well buy a lot of gifts for everyone we know. So this issue of present bias causes us to think about saving, but end up spending. Let me now talk about another behavioral obstacle to saving having to do with inertia. But again, a little diversion to the topic of organ donation. Wonderful study comparing different countries. We're going to look at two similar countries, Germany and Austria. And in Germany, if you would like to donate your organs — God forbid something really bad happens to you — when you get your driving license or an I.D., you check the box saying, ""I would like to donate my organs."" Not many people like checking boxes. It takes effort. You need to think. Twelve percent do. Austria, a neighboring country, slightly similar, slightly different. What's the difference? Well, you still have choice. You will decide whether you want to donate your organs or not. But when you get your driving license, you check the box if you do not want to donate your organ. Nobody checks boxes. That's kind of too much effort. One percent check the box. The rest do nothing. Doing nothing is very common. Not many people check boxes. What are the implications to saving lives and having organs available? In Germany, 12 percent check the box. Twelve percent are organ donors. Huge shortage of organs, God forbid, if you need one. In Austria, again, nobody checks the box. Therefore, 99 percent of people are organ donors. Inertia, lack of action. What is the default setting if people do nothing, if they keep procrastinating, if they don't check the boxes? Very powerful. We're going to talk about what happens if people are overwhelmed and scared to make their 401(k) choices. Are we going to make them automatically join the plan, or are they going to be left out? In too many 401(k) plans, if people do nothing, it means they're not saving for retirement, if they don't check the box. And checking the box takes effort. So we've chatted about a couple of behavioral challenges. One more before we flip the challenges into solutions, having to do with monkeys and apples. No, no, no, this is a real study and it's got a lot to do with behavioral economics. One group of monkeys gets an apple, they're pretty happy. The other group gets two apples, one is taken away. They still have an apple left. They're really mad. Why have you taken our apple? This is the notion of loss aversion. We hate losing stuff, even if it doesn't mean a lot of risk. You would hate to go to the ATM, take out 100 dollars and notice that you lost one of those $20 bills. It's very painful, even though it doesn't mean anything. Those 20 dollars might have been a quick lunch. So this notion of loss aversion kicks in when it comes to savings too, because people, mentally and emotionally and intuitively frame savings as a loss because I have to cut my spending. So we talked about all sorts of behavioral challenges having to do with savings eventually. Whether you think about immediate gratification, and the chocolates versus bananas, it's just painful to save now. It's a lot more fun to spend now. We talked about inertia and organ donations and checking the box. If people have to check a lot of boxes to join a 401(k) plan, they're going to keep procrastinating and not join. And last, we talked about loss aversion, and the monkeys and the apples. If people frame mentally saving for retirement as a loss, they're not going to be saving for retirement. So we've got these challenges, and what Richard Thaler and I were always fascinated by — take behavioral finance, make it behavioral finance on steroids or behavioral finance 2.0 or behavioral finance in action — flip the challenges into solutions. And we came up with an embarrassingly simple solution called Save More, not today, Tomorrow. How is it going to solve the challenges we chatted about? If you think about the problem of bananas versus chocolates, we think we're going to eat bananas next week. We think we're going to save more next year. Save More Tomorrow invites employees to save more maybe next year — sometime in the future when we can imagine ourselves eating bananas, volunteering more in the community, exercising more and doing all the right things on the planet. Now we also talked about checking the box and the difficulty of taking action. Save More Tomorrow makes it easy. It's an autopilot. Once you tell me you would like to save more in the future, let's say every January you're going to be saving more automatically and it's going to go away from your paycheck to the 401(k) plan before you see it, before you touch it, before you get the issue of immediate gratification. But what are we going to do about the monkeys and loss aversion? Next January comes and people might feel that if they save more, they have to spend less, and that's painful. Well, maybe it shouldn't be just January. Maybe we should make people save more when they make more money. That way, when they make more money, when they get a pay raise, they don't have to cut their spending. They take a little bit of the increase in the paycheck home and spend more — take a little bit of the increase and put it in a 401(k) plan. So that is the program, embarrassingly simple, but as we're going to see, extremely powerful. We first implemented it, Richard Thaler and I, back in 1998. Mid-sized company in the Midwest, blue collar employees struggling to pay their bills repeatedly told us they cannot save more right away. Saving more today is not an option. We invited them to save three percentage points more every time they get a pay raise. And here are the results. We're seeing here a three and a half-year period, four pay raises, people who were struggling to save, were saving three percent of their paycheck, three and a half years later saving almost four times as much, almost 14 percent. And there's shoes and bicycles and things on this chart because I don't want to just throw numbers in a vacuum. I want, really, to think about the fact that saving four times more is a huge difference in terms of the lifestyle that people will be able to afford. It's real. It's not just numbers on a piece of paper. Whereas with saving three percent, people might have to add nice sneakers so they can walk, because they won't be able to afford anything else, when they save 14 percent they might be able to maybe have nice dress shoes to walk to the car to drive. This is a real difference. By now, about 60 percent of the large companies actually have programs like this in place. It's been part of the Pension Protection Act. And needless to say that Thaler and I have been blessed to be part of this program and make a difference. Let me wrap with two key messages. One is behavioral finance is extremely powerful. This is just one example. Message two is there's still a lot to do. This is really the tip of the iceberg. If you think about people and mortgages and buying houses and then not being able to pay for it, we need to think about that. If you're thinking about people taking too much risk and not understanding how much risk they're taking or taking too little risk, we need to think about that. If you think about people spending a thousand dollars a year on lottery tickets, we need to think about that. The average actually, the record is in Singapore. The average household spends $4,000 a year on lottery tickets. We've got a lot to do, a lot to solve, also in the retirement area when it comes to what people do with their money after retirement. One last question: How many of you feel comfortable that as you're planning for retirement you have a really solid plan when you're going to retire, when you're going to claim Social Security benefits, what lifestyle to expect, how much to spend every month so you're not going to run out of money? How many of you feel you have a solid plan for the future when it comes to post-retirement decisions. One, two, three, four. Less than three percent of a very sophisticated audience. Behavioral finance has a long way. There's a lot of opportunities to make it powerful again and again and again. Thank you. (Applause)"	我今天想聊聊存錢但不是今天，是明天我將要聊聊為明天儲存更多錢有一個計劃是來自芝加哥大學理查德泰勒和我一起大概15年前設計的這個計劃，從某種程度來說，是行為經濟學的一個例子也就是－我們如何真正利用行為經濟學於是你會問，甚麼是行為經濟學？讓我們來思考我們平時是怎樣理財的我們從房貸說起最近我們常看到這個話題至少在美國是如此很多人買在他們支付能力範圍之內最大的房子事實上比可支付範圍還要稍大一些最後他們付不起房貸於是他們開始埋怨銀行說銀行是貸款給他們的壞人 我們再想想我們怎樣管理風險－舉個例子，投資股票市場兩年前，三年前，大約四年前市場運行得很好當然那時候我們都是投機者接著股票市場蕭條衰敗我們會想，“噢這些損失，在情感上他們確實感覺很不同和股市行情上漲時我們對損失的感覺不一樣”所以在風險投機上我們似乎也做的不太好 你們有多少人用iPhone？有人麼？非常好我打賭這裡擁有iPhone的人中的大多數都給你的iPhone買保險了你通過加買的質保暗中給手機買了保險如果你丟失了你的iPhone你會怎麼辦呢？你們中多少人有小孩？有人有嗎？手再擧著不要放如果你有購買生命保險的話我看到很多手放下去了我會預測如果你是一個典型的代表你們中的很多人為你的iPhone買了保險卻沒有為你的生命買保險即便你已經有了小孩在買保險的方面我們做得也不是很好 美國家庭平均每戶一年要在樂透上花費1,000美元我知道這聽起來很瘋狂你們中有多少人一年會花1,000美金買樂透？沒有人那麽這告訴我們有些不在這個房間裡的人買樂透超過了一千美金所以最終平均才會等於一千美金特別是有些低收入戶一年在樂透上花費了超過一千美金於是這告訴我們甚麼？我們在理財上做得也不是很好 行為經濟學實際上是心理學和經濟學的一個綜合讓我們瞭解為甚麼人們在金錢問題上會犯錯我可以站在這裡用我剩下的12分鐘53秒把我們理財用的各種方法當作笑話講給各位聼到最後你會問，“我們怎樣幫助人們？”所以我今天真正想關注的是我們如何理解人們在金錢問題上犯的錯誤以及怎樣把行為性挑戰轉化為行為性的解決方案？我今天要談的是為明天節省更多 我要討論的是存錢這個問題在屏幕上有具有代表性的100個美國人我們來看看他們的儲蓄習慣第一件需要注意的事情是他們中一半的人都沒有參加401(k)退休福利計劃存錢對他們來説很不容易他們不能把錢從他們的支票押到進入401(k)計劃裏他們一看到錢就花一摸到錢就花那麼剩下的一半人呢？一些人傾向於不存款他們只是太懶了他們從沒有登入過一個複雜一點的網站點擊17下加入401(k)計劃當他們決定他們要去投資的時候在他們的52個選擇裡他們從未聽說過基金他們覺得太複雜了於是就沒加入最終有多少人向該計劃存款？只有三分之一的美國人三分之二都不存款 他們存得夠多嗎？除去那些說自己存的太少的人十分之一的人覺得自己存款夠了十分之九有的不能徹底執行401(k)計劃存到退休金所以決定不存或是下不了決定有的則是存得太少對於那些存款太多的人我們覺得也有一些問題我們來看這裡有一個人－其實我們要把他切成一半因為小於百分之一差不多只有百分之零點五的美國人認為他們存得夠多了 我們對此能做甚麼呢？以下就是我真正想要關注的我們必須先明白為甚麼人們不去存款接著我們才能把行為性挑戰轉化為行為性解決方案並看看這會有多大效果所以接下來讓我稍微轉移一下話題因爲我們必須要認清問題我們面對的挑戰，行為性挑戰去找出阻止人們存錢的原因我要轉移到下一個話題，來談談香蕉和巧克力 假設下一周我們有另一場非常棒的TED活動休息期間將會有零食供應你可以選擇香蕉或是巧克力你們中有多少人覺得你會在下週假想的晚會中選擇香蕉？誰會選擇香蕉？不錯我科學地預測一下百分之七十四的人會選擇香蕉這至少是一個權威的科學研究預測的接著我們倒數日子最後來看看人們最後到底吃了些甚麼一個禮拜之後那些認為他們會吃香蕉的人最終都選擇了巧克力 自制力在未來來説並不是一個問題當巧克力離我們很近的時候自制力就會有問題了這種瞬間的喜悅和我們時間以及儲蓄有甚麼關聯？或者就像一些經濟學家所講的，現在狀態的偏見我們想著如何儲蓄，我們知道我們應該存錢我們知道明年我們會做，但是今天就讓我們花錢吧聖誕節要來了我們最好給我們認識的人買很多禮物所以“現在狀態的偏見”導致我們考慮儲蓄最後卻把錢花掉了 讓我現在來講另一個關於儲蓄的行為性障礙這和慣性有關再一次，小小地轉移話題到器官捐獻上有一份很完美的研究比較了不同國家之間的情況我們來看兩個相似的國家德國和奧地利在德國如果你想要捐贈你的器官－上帝會禁止一些非常壞的事情發生在你的身上當你拿到你的駕照或是一個ID卡勾選一個小方格“我願意捐贈我的器官”不太多人願意勾選小方格這要花費力氣，你需要想百分之十二的人會去勾選在鄰國奧地利有點相同而又有點不同有甚麼不同？嗯，你還是可以選擇的你會選是否希望捐贈器官但當你得到你的駕照你要勾選一個方格“如果你不想要捐贈你的器官”基本上沒有人勾這項這太費力氣了只有百分之一的人勾選，剩下的人甚麼都沒做放著不做是通常會發生的行為沒幾個人勾選方格 拯救生命和捐贈器官之間有什麽關聯？在德國，百分之十二的人勾選這個格子於是只有百分之十二的人成為器官捐贈者導致了巨大的器官短缺當你需要時上帝會禁止在奧地利，沒有人勾選這個方格於是，百分之九十九的人都是器官捐贈者慣性，缺乏行動原始狀態會是什麽如果人們甚麼都不做？如果他們一直拖延，如果他們不勾選方格？這是非常有效的我們即將講到如果人們覺得難以應付或害怕去加入401(k)計劃我們是讓他們自動加入計劃還是就放任不管？在太多的計劃之中如果人們甚麼都不做如果他們不勾選方格意味著他們並沒有在儲存退休金當然勾選方格需要付出努力 以上我們談了幾項行為性挑戰在談解決方案之前我們還要再講一個例子是關於猴子和蘋果的例子不不不，這是一個真實的研究這和行為經濟學有很大關係一群猴子得到一個蘋果，他們很開心另外一群猴子得到兩個蘋果，其中一個被拿走了他們仍然有一個蘋果不過他們非常生氣“你為甚麼拿走我們的蘋果？”這就叫做對於失去的厭惡感我們憎恨失去東西即使這並不意味著很高風險你不會喜歡去自動提款機提款時提出100美金以後發現你丟失了其中一張20元的鈔票即使這沒什麽大不了但這卻很令人痛苦用這20美金本來可以吃一頓午餐所以關於失去厭惡感的想法同樣也會發生在儲蓄上因為人，在精神上和情緒上直覺地認為存錢儲蓄是一種失去因為爲了存錢我必須減少我的支出 所以當我們講到各式各樣的行為性挑戰最終都和儲蓄有關不管你是想到瞬間的滿足巧克力對香蕉現在就去存錢是很痛苦的相比之下即刻花錢是更快樂的我們談到慣性和器官捐贈還有勾選方格如果人麼需要勾選很多的方格來加入401(k)計劃他們將會一直拖延下去最終不參加最後，我們談到了對於失去的厭惡感猴子和蘋果的故事如果一個人心中認為對於退休金的儲存是一種失去他們將不會去做 所以這些是我們眼前的挑戰理查泰勒和我都一直為一件事著迷－將傳統的行為經濟學升級成為行為經濟學加強版行為經濟學2.0或者行動行為經濟學－把挑戰轉化為解決方案最後我們得出了一個非常簡單的解決方案叫做存得更多，不是今天，是明天那麽我們認為應該如何解決這個挑戰？如果你想到香蕉和巧克力的問題我們想我們下一周要吃香蕉我們想明年我們要存更多明天再存更多邀請職員明年存更多－在未來的某個時候當我們能想像到我們自己吃香蕉在社區裡做更多的志願者工作作更多的練習和在這個星球上做對的事情 現在我們也談論了勾選方格和採取行動的困難性明天存更多讓選擇變得容易一切變成全自動一旦你告訴我你未來想要存得更多譬如說每年一月你都要自動存更多那麽將會直接從薪水匯到到你的401(k)計劃裏在你看到錢之前，在你能碰到錢之前在你感到短暫的滿足感之前問題已經被處理掉了但是對於猴子和厭惡失去的問題我們該怎麽處理呢？下一個一月到來了人們感覺如果他們存得更多他們花費將變得更少，於是他們將感到痛苦好吧，或許應該說不限於一月份或許我們要在人們賺更多錢的時候來存得更多這樣一來，當他們賺得更多，酬金升高時他們將不會覺得支出被削減了從他們多賺的錢裏面拿一部分回家來使花費得更多－再把多賺得錢的另一部份投入401(k)計劃中 所以這個計劃非常得簡單但我們將要看到的是非常非常有利的結果在1998年理查德和我第一次讓計劃生效在中西部得一些中小型企業那些為支付賬單搞得焦頭爛額的藍領員工們不斷告訴我們他們無法存得更多今日存更多並不是一個選擇我們邀請他們在每次薪水調高的時候加把存進百分之三以上結果就在這裡我們看到三年半的實踐中四次的調薪那些過去無法存款的人們存了他們酬金中的百分之三三年半之後竟然存了4倍之多幾乎達到百分之十四 這是鞋子和單車和表格上的東西因為我不想直接憑空說數字說真正，大家來想想這個結果存到四倍之多的存款這是生活方式中的一個巨大差別人們將有能力償還了這是真實的這不僅僅是一張白紙上的數字當存百分之三時人們可能因此有了一雙很好的運動鞋只能走路因為他們買不起其他東西而當他們存了百分之十四之後他們或許可以有能力支付很好的裙子或是鞋子能夠走到車裡開車這是一個巨大的不同直到如今，大約百分之60的大企業都有在落實類似的項目這已經成為了退休金保護計劃中的一部分而泰勒和我已經成為這個項目的一分子來創造不同 讓我們來最後用兩個非常重要的信息來作結論一個是行為經濟學是很有用的這只是一個例子第二條信息是還有很多需要去落實這真的只是冰山一角如果你想到人們和房貸還有買了房子卻無力償還貸款我們應該想想這個項目如果你想到人們採取太多冒險行為卻不了解他們在冒多大的風險或是多小的風險我們應該想想這個項目如果你想到人們每年花費一千美金去買樂透券我們應該想到這個項目在新加坡實際記錄中平均每戶每年會花費4000美金購買樂透我們該做的還很多很多需要解決的還有在退休金領域裏這涉及到人們在退休後怎樣理財 最後一個問題：你們中有多少人覺得你們在計劃退休之後的事情覺得你自己在退休之後有一個很實際的理財計劃？當你要領取社保福利的時候你期待著那一種生活方式一個月將要支付多少元最終你將不會透支？有多少人認為自己在未來的後退休計劃中有一個很務實的計劃？一，二，三，四只有小於百分之三的人會這麽做雖然在座的都是聰明人行為經濟學是一條長路有很多的機會能讓它變得一次一次再一次的有用 謝謝 （掌聲）
