Talk	en	zh-tw
shonda_rhimes_my_year_of_saying_yes_to_everything	"So a while ago, I tried an experiment. For one year, I would say yes to all the things that scared me. Anything that made me nervous, took me out of my comfort zone, I forced myself to say yes to. Did I want to speak in public? No, but yes. Did I want to be on live TV? No, but yes. Did I want to try acting? No, no, no, but yes, yes, yes. And a crazy thing happened: the very act of doing the thing that scared me undid the fear, made it not scary. My fear of public speaking, my social anxiety, poof, gone. It's amazing, the power of one word. ""Yes"" changed my life. ""Yes"" changed me. But there was one particular yes that affected my life in the most profound way, in a way I never imagined, and it started with a question from my toddler. I have these three amazing daughters, Harper, Beckett and Emerson, and Emerson is a toddler who inexplicably refers to everyone as ""honey."" as though she's a Southern waitress. (Laughter) ""Honey, I'm gonna need some milk for my sippy cup."" (Laughter) The Southern waitress asked me to play with her one evening when I was on my way somewhere, and I said, ""Yes."" And that yes was the beginning of a new way of life for my family. I made a vow that from now on, every time one of my children asks me to play, no matter what I'm doing or where I'm going, I say yes, every single time. Almost. I'm not perfect at it, but I try hard to practice it. And it's had a magical effect on me, on my children, on our family. But it's also had a stunning side effect, and it wasn't until recently that I fully understood it, that I understood that saying yes to playing with my children likely saved my career. See, I have what most people would call a dream job. I'm a writer. I imagine. I make stuff up for a living. Dream job. No. I'm a titan. Dream job. I create television. I executive produce television. I make television, a great deal of television. In one way or another, this TV season, I'm responsible for bringing about 70 hours of programming to the world. Four television programs, 70 hours of TV — (Applause) Three shows in production at a time, sometimes four. Each show creates hundreds of jobs that didn't exist before. The budget for one episode of network television can be anywhere from three to six million dollars. Let's just say five. A new episode made every nine days times four shows, so every nine days that's 20 million dollars worth of television, four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four, 16 episodes going on at all times: 24 episodes of ""Grey's,"" 21 episodes of ""Scandal,"" 15 episodes of ""How To Get Away With Murder,"" 10 episodes of ""The Catch,"" that's 70 hours of TV, that's 350 million dollars for a season. In America, my television shows are back to back to back on Thursday night. Around the world, my shows air in 256 territories in 67 languages for an audience of 30 million people. My brain is global, and 45 hours of that 70 hours of TV are shows I personally created and not just produced, so on top of everything else, I need to find time, real quiet, creative time, to gather my fans around the campfire and tell my stories. Four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four, 350 million dollars, campfires burning all over the world. You know who else is doing that? Nobody, so like I said, I'm a titan. Dream job. (Applause) Now, I don't tell you this to impress you. I tell you this because I know what you think of when you hear the word ""writer."" I tell you this so that all of you out there who work so hard, whether you run a company or a country or a classroom or a store or a home, take me seriously when I talk about working, so you'll get that I don't peck at a computer and imagine all day, so you'll hear me when I say that I understand that a dream job is not about dreaming. It's all job, all work, all reality, all blood, all sweat, no tears. I work a lot, very hard, and I love it. When I'm hard at work, when I'm deep in it, there is no other feeling. For me, my work is at all times building a nation out of thin air. It is manning the troops. It is painting a canvas. It is hitting every high note. It is running a marathon. It is being Beyoncé. And it is all of those things at the same time. I love working. It is creative and mechanical and exhausting and exhilarating and hilarious and disturbing and clinical and maternal and cruel and judicious, and what makes it all so good is the hum. There is some kind of shift inside me when the work gets good. A hum begins in my brain, and it grows and it grows and that hum sounds like the open road, and I could drive it forever. And a lot of people, when I try to explain the hum, they assume that I'm talking about the writing, that my writing brings me joy. And don't get me wrong, it does. But the hum — it wasn't until I started making television that I started working, working and making and building and creating and collaborating, that I discovered this thing, this buzz, this rush, this hum. The hum is more than writing. The hum is action and activity. The hum is a drug. The hum is music. The hum is light and air. The hum is God's whisper right in my ear. And when you have a hum like that, you can't help but strive for greatness. That feeling, you can't help but strive for greatness at any cost. That's called the hum. Or, maybe it's called being a workaholic. (Laughter) Maybe it's called genius. Maybe it's called ego. Maybe it's just fear of failure. I don't know. I just know that I'm not built for failure, and I just know that I love the hum. I just know that I want to tell you I'm a titan, and I know that I don't want to question it. But here's the thing: the more successful I become, the more shows, the more episodes, the more barriers broken, the more work there is to do, the more balls in the air, the more eyes on me, the more history stares, the more expectations there are. The more I work to be successful, the more I need to work. And what did I say about work? I love working, right? The nation I'm building, the marathon I'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note, the hum, the hum, the hum. I like that hum. I love that hum. I need that hum. I am that hum. Am I nothing but that hum? And then the hum stopped. Overworked, overused, overdone, burned out. The hum stopped. Now, my three daughters are used to the truth that their mother is a single working titan. Harper tells people, ""My mom won't be there, but you can text my nanny."" And Emerson says, ""Honey, I'm wanting to go to ShondaLand."" They're children of a titan. They're baby titans. They were 12, 3, and 1 when the hum stopped. The hum of the engine died. I stopped loving work. I couldn't restart the engine. The hum would not come back. My hum was broken. I was doing the same things I always did, all the same titan work, 15-hour days, working straight through the weekends, no regrets, never surrender, a titan never sleeps, a titan never quits, full hearts, clear eyes, yada, whatever. But there was no hum. Inside me was silence. Four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four. Four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time ... I was the perfect titan. I was a titan you could take home to your mother. All the colors were the same, and I was no longer having any fun. And it was my life. It was all I did. I was the hum, and the hum was me. So what do you do when the thing you do, the work you love, starts to taste like dust? Now, I know somebody's out there thinking, ""Cry me a river, stupid writer titan lady."" (Laughter) But you know, you do, if you make, if you work, if you love what you do, being a teacher, being a banker, being a mother, being a painter, being Bill Gates, if you simply love another person and that gives you the hum, if you know the hum, if you know what the hum feels like, if you have been to the hum, when the hum stops, who are you? What are you? What am I? Am I still a titan? If the song of my heart ceases to play, can I survive in the silence? And then my Southern waitress toddler asks me a question. I'm on my way out the door, I'm late, and she says, ""Momma, wanna play?"" And I'm just about to say no, when I realize two things. One, I'm supposed to say yes to everything, and two, my Southern waitress didn't call me ""honey."" She's not calling everyone ""honey"" anymore. When did that happen? I'm missing it, being a titan and mourning my hum, and here she is changing right before my eyes. And so she says, ""Momma, wanna play?"" And I say, ""Yes."" There's nothing special about it. We play, and we're joined by her sisters, and there's a lot of laughing, and I give a dramatic reading from the book Everybody Poops. Nothing out of the ordinary. (Laughter) And yet, it is extraordinary, because in my pain and my panic, in the homelessness of my humlessness, I have nothing to do but pay attention. I focus. I am still. The nation I'm building, the marathon I'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note does not exist. All that exists are sticky fingers and gooey kisses and tiny voices and crayons and that song about letting go of whatever it is that Frozen girl needs to let go of. (Laughter) It's all peace and simplicity. The air is so rare in this place for me that I can barely breathe. I can barely believe I'm breathing. Play is the opposite of work. And I am happy. Something in me loosens. A door in my brain swings open, and a rush of energy comes. And it's not instantaneous, but it happens, it does happen. I feel it. A hum creeps back. Not at full volume, barely there, it's quiet, and I have to stay very still to hear it, but it is there. Not the hum, but a hum. And now I feel like I know a very magical secret. Well, let's not get carried away. It's just love. That's all it is. No magic. No secret. It's just love. It's just something we forgot. The hum, the work hum, the hum of the titan, that's just a replacement. If I have to ask you who I am, if I have to tell you who I am, if I describe myself in terms of shows and hours of television and how globally badass my brain is, I have forgotten what the real hum is. The hum is not power and the hum is not work-specific. The hum is joy-specific. The real hum is love-specific. The hum is the electricity that comes from being excited by life. The real hum is confidence and peace. The real hum ignores the stare of history, and the balls in the air, and the expectation, and the pressure. The real hum is singular and original. The real hum is God's whisper in my ear, but maybe God was whispering the wrong words, because which one of the gods was telling me I was the titan? It's just love. We could all use a little more love, a lot more love. Any time my child asks me to play, I will say yes. I make it a firm rule for one reason, to give myself permission, to free me from all of my workaholic guilt. It's a law, so I don't have a choice, and I don't have a choice, not if I want to feel the hum. I wish it were that easy, but I'm not good at playing. I don't like it. I'm not interested in doing it the way I'm interested in doing work. The truth is incredibly humbling and humiliating to face. I don't like playing. I work all the time because I like working. I like working more than I like being at home. Facing that fact is incredibly difficult to handle, because what kind of person likes working more than being at home? Well, me. I mean, let's be honest, I call myself a titan. I've got issues. (Laughter) And one of those issues isn't that I am too relaxed. (Laughter) We run around the yard, up and back and up and back. We have 30-second dance parties. We sing show tunes. We play with balls. I blow bubbles and they pop them. And I feel stiff and delirious and confused most of the time. I itch for my cell phone always. But it is OK. My tiny humans show me how to live and the hum of the universe fills me up. I play and I play until I begin to wonder why we ever stop playing in the first place. You can do it too, say yes every time your child asks you to play. Are you thinking that maybe I'm an idiot in diamond shoes? You're right, but you can still do this. You have time. You know why? Because you're not Rihanna and you're not a Muppet. Your child does not think you're that interesting. (Laughter) You only need 15 minutes. My two- and four-year-old only ever want to play with me for about 15 minutes or so before they think to themselves they want to do something else. It's an amazing 15 minutes, but it's 15 minutes. If I'm not a ladybug or a piece of candy, I'm invisible after 15 minutes. (Laughter) And my 13-year-old, if I can get a 13-year-old to talk to me for 15 minutes I'm Parent of the Year. (Laughter) 15 minutes is all you need. I can totally pull off 15 minutes of uninterrupted time on my worst day. Uninterrupted is the key. No cell phone, no laundry, no anything. You have a busy life. You have to get dinner on the table. You have to force them to bathe. But you can do 15 minutes. My kids are my happy place, they're my world, but it doesn't have to be your kids, the fuel that feeds your hum, the place where life feels more good than not good. It's not about playing with your kids, it's about joy. It's about playing in general. Give yourself the 15 minutes. Find what makes you feel good. Just figure it out and play in that arena. I'm not perfect at it. In fact, I fail as often as I succeed, seeing friends, reading books, staring into space. ""Wanna play?"" starts to become shorthand for indulging myself in ways I'd given up on right around the time I got my first TV show, right around the time I became a titan-in-training, right around the time I started competing with myself for ways unknown. 15 minutes? What could be wrong with giving myself my full attention for 15 minutes? Turns out, nothing. The very act of not working has made it possible for the hum to return, as if the hum's engine could only refuel while I was away. Work doesn't work without play. It takes a little time, but after a few months, one day the floodgates open and there's a rush, and I find myself standing in my office filled with an unfamiliar melody, full on groove inside me, and around me, and it sends me spinning with ideas, and the humming road is open, and I can drive it and drive it, and I love working again. But now, I like that hum, but I don't love that hum. I don't need that hum. I am not that hum. That hum is not me, not anymore. I am bubbles and sticky fingers and dinners with friends. I am that hum. Life's hum. Love's hum. Work's hum is still a piece of me, it is just no longer all of me, and I am so grateful. And I don't give a crap about being a titan, because I have never once seen a titan play Red Rover, Red Rover. I said yes to less work and more play, and somehow I still run my world. My brain is still global. My campfires still burn. The more I play, the happier I am, and the happier my kids are. The more I play, the more I feel like a good mother. The more I play, the freer my mind becomes. The more I play, the better I work. The more I play, the more I feel the hum, the nation I'm building, the marathon I'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note, the hum, the hum, the other hum, the real hum, life's hum. The more I feel that hum, the more this strange, quivering, uncocooned, awkward, brand new, alive non-titan feels like me. The more I feel that hum, the more I know who I am. I'm a writer, I make stuff up, I imagine. That part of the job, that's living the dream. That's the dream of the job. Because a dream job should be a little bit dreamy. I said yes to less work and more play. Titans need not apply. Wanna play? Thank you. (Applause)"	前一段時間，我做了一個實驗。在一年內，我將對任何讓我感到害怕的事都說「好」。任何讓我感到緊張、帶離舒適圈的事，我都強迫自己去說「好」。我想在大眾面前公開演說嗎？不想，但是好吧。我想要上直播的電視節目嗎？不要，但是好吧。我想要試著演戲嗎？絕對不，但還是好吧。 然後神奇的事發生了：透過這樣去做那些讓我害怕的事，消除了恐懼，讓那些事變得不再讓人害怕。我對公開演說的恐懼、我的社交焦慮，咻的一聲消失了。這一個字的力量真的很驚人。說「好」改變了我的人生。說「好」改變了我。然而當中有一個特別的情況，用一種最深遠的方式影響了我的人生，是我從沒想到的方式，源起於我學步的女兒所問的一個問題。 我有三個很棒的女兒，分別是哈珀、貝克特和愛默生。愛默生還在學步，不知為何她就是喜歡叫大家「甜心」，好像她是個南方的女服務生一樣。 （笑聲） 「甜心，在我的鴨嘴杯中加些牛奶。」 （笑聲） 有天晚上，這位南方女服務生要我跟她一起玩，我當時正準備前往某處的路上，然後我說好。而這個「好」從此開啟了我跟家人一種新的生活方式。我當時發誓，從現在起，只要我的孩子希望跟我一起玩，不管當時我在幹嘛，或者我準備要去哪，每一次我都要說好。幾乎每次。我在這方面並不完美，但我努力試著去練習，接著有一種神奇的效應發生在我身上，也發生在我孩子、家人身上。但是同樣也帶來了意想不到的結果，而我直到最近才充分了解到，我選擇答應跟孩子們玩耍這件事，很可能拯救了我的事業。 是這樣的，我的工作大部分人都認為是「夢幻職業」。我是作家，我不停想像，我靠創作東西賺錢。一個夢幻的工作。不只是這樣。我是電視圈霸主，我的工作人人欽羨。我創作電視節目，我執導製作電視節目。我做電視節目，一大堆的電視節目。在這一季的電視上，用不同的形式，我負責將近 70 小時的節目製作給全世界的觀眾看，總共四個電視節目，70 小時的電視曝光時數── （掌聲） 同時製作三個電視劇，有時候四個。每個電視劇創造了數以百計以往不曾存在的工作，廣播電視網節目每集的預算，可能是在三百到六百萬美元之間，平均就算五百萬美元吧。每九天製作出新的一集，乘以四個電視劇，所以每九天就等同價值二千萬美元的電視劇。四個電視節目，70 個小時的電視曝光時數，有三個電視劇同時進行製作，有時候四個。全天候都有 16 集的影集在進行，24 集的《實習醫生》、21集的《醜聞》，15 集的《謀殺入門課》，10 集的《隱情》，加起來共 70 小時在電視上播放，每季預算為 3.5 億美元。在美國，我的電視劇一直佔據著週四晚上的黃金時段。我的電視劇在全球 256 個國家、用 67 種語言播放著，收視觀眾超過三千萬人。我的思考是這樣全面的。在電視播放這 70 小時中，有 45 小時是我個人創作的劇情，不只有製作，所以最重要的是，我需要找到很安靜、能發揮創作的時間，才能讓我的粉絲願意聚在營火旁，聽我述說故事。四個電視節目，70 個小時的電視曝光時數，同時製作三個電視劇，有時候四個，3.5 億美元，這樣的營火遍佈了全世界。你認識其他人也跟我一樣嗎？沒有人，就像我說的，我是個霸主。這是個夢幻工作。 （掌聲） 我不是為了讓你們佩服我才說這些的。我告訴你們這些，是因為我知道你們對「編劇」的想像。我告訴你們這些，好讓你們其中工作特別辛苦的人，不管你是經營公司、國家、教室，商店或是家庭，你們才不會將我的工作視為理所當然。你才會發現，我並不是在電腦上輕敲幾下，然後整日幻想。你才會聽清楚我說的，並了解到一個「夢幻工作」並不是靠空想，它是實實在在的工作、投入跟現實，付出你的心血，沒有時間沮喪。我非常努力工作，而我也熱愛工作。 當我努力工作、埋首投入時，我感受不到其他多餘的感覺。對我來說，我的工作就像是在稀薄的空氣中打造一個王國，像是對軍隊的訓練，像是在畫布上作畫，像是唱到每一個高音，像是一場馬拉松賽跑，像是成為碧昂絲一樣。而這些全部的事情都同時發生著，我熱愛工作。工作是創意的，也是呆板機械的，讓人筋疲力盡、也讓人興奮不已。是滑稽的，也是惱人的，是冷冰的，也是慈愛的。是殘酷的，也是明智果決的。而讓這些全部變得如此之美好是因為一種「心智狀態」。當順利完成工作時，這些不同的狀態在我腦中切換，有某種「心智狀態」在我腦中形成，一直持續成長，那感覺就像一條寬敞的大道，我可以沒有盡頭地開著。當我試著解釋這樣的狀態時，很多人會以為我在說關於寫作的事，寫作帶給我快樂的事。別誤會我的意思，寫作當然帶給我快樂，但是那種狀態，我從未感受過，直到我開始做電視節目，我開始不停工作、製作、產出，打造、創造、合作，我才發現了這個東西、這個聲音、這個感覺跟「嗡」的狀態，「嗡」不只是寫作。「嗡」是一個動作、是一種活動，就像一種藥。「嗡」是音樂、是光、是空氣。「嗡」是上帝在我耳邊的低語。當你有了像那樣的感受與狀態後，你會忍不住想為了更好的事情去奮鬥。那種感覺會讓你想不計代價去努力，那就叫做「嗡」。或者，也叫做工作狂。 （笑聲） 也許那叫做與生俱來的本領。也許那是一個自我的意志。也許那只是對於失敗的恐懼。我不知道。我只知道，我並不是為失敗而生的。我只知道，我喜愛那樣的感知狀態。我只知道，我想要告訴你我是個霸主，然後我不會去質疑這件事。 但有件事：當我變得越成功，製作越多的節目、越多的影集、打破越多的藩籬，就有越多的工作等著我完成，越多無法回頭的事，越多關注的眼光、越多的歷史包袱，越多的期待。我為了成功所做的努力越多，我需要做的事就越多。我前面是怎麼談論工作的？我說我熱愛工作，對嗎？那個我打造的王國、那場我跑的馬拉松，那些軍隊、那些畫布、那個高音、「嗡」的狀態，那樣的感受、那樣的狀態，我喜歡「嗡」、我熱愛「嗡」。我需要「嗡」，我就是「嗡」。除了那個狀態，我是否什麼都不是了呢？ 然後「嗡」停止了。過度的工作、過度的使用、過度的濫用、燃燒殆盡。「嗡」停下來了。 我的三個女兒已經習慣這件事：她們的媽媽是個單打獨鬥、熱愛工作的電視霸主。哈珀會跟別人說：「我媽媽不會去，但你可以傳訊息給我保母。」愛默生說：「甜心，我想要去妳公司。」她們是霸主的小孩。她們就是小小霸主。當「嗡」的狀態停止時，她們分別是十二歲、三歲跟一歲，那狀態的引擎停止運轉了。我不再熱愛工作，我無法重新發動那引擎。「嗡」不會回來了。「嗡」的狀態壞掉了。我還是做跟以前一樣的事情，一樣那些「霸主的工作」，一天工作 15 個小時，週末直接通宵，從不後悔、絕不屈服，一個不眠不休的霸主，一樣全心全意、一樣明亮的眼神，諸如此類，但「嗡」不在了。我內心是沉默安靜的。四個電視節目，70 小時電視曝光時數，同時製作三個電視劇，有時候四個。四個電視節目，70 小時電視曝光時數，同時製作三個電視劇，有時四個。我曾經是那個完美的霸主。我是那種厲害到「可以帶回家給媽媽看」的那種人。人生好像變得黑白，我不再感到有任何樂趣。工作就是我當時的人生。我成天埋首工作。我曾經是「嗡」，而「嗡」就是我。所以當你做的事、你愛的工作開始讓你感到索然無味，你會怎麼辦？ 我知道有些人現在會覺得，「別再抱怨了，愚蠢的女編劇霸主。」 （笑聲） 但是你懂的，你知道的，創作也好、工作也好，你熱愛你所做的事，當老師、當銀行行員、為人母、當畫家，當比爾蓋茲也好，如果你就只是單純愛著一個人，而那些讓你感受到「嗡」的感覺，你們是知道這種感覺的。如果你曾經感受過那種感覺、如果你曾經在那種狀態中，但這樣的感覺停下來後，你是誰？你是什麼？我又是什麼？我還是那個霸主嗎？如果我心中的樂曲停止演奏了，那麼我能在這片靜默中生存下去嗎？ 然後我的南方小服務生問了我一個問題，我當時準備出門，已經遲到了，這時她說：「媽媽，要一起玩嗎？」 我正準備說「不」時，意識到兩件事。首先，我應該對每件事都說「好」，接著，我的南方小服務生沒有叫我「甜心」。她不再叫每一個人「甜心」了。什麼時候開始的？我錯過了，就在急著當個霸主跟哀悼我失去的狀態時，她就這樣在我眼前改變了。所以當她說：「媽媽，要一起玩嗎？」然後我說「好」。接著我們沒有做什麼特別的事。我們就是玩，後來她的姊妹加入我們，許多的歡笑聲，我唸了《大家來放屁》這本書中，一段讓人印象深刻的閱讀。一切都是那麼地尋常。 （笑聲） 然後，不尋常的事發生了，因為我的痛苦、我的恐慌、在失去狀態中的無助感，我除了專心外，什麼都不能做，我專注。我是平靜的。那個我打造的王國、那場我跑的馬拉松，那批軍隊、那張畫布、那個高音都不存在了。取而代之的是黏黏的手指、軟綿綿的親吻、微小的聲音跟一堆蠟筆，還有那首唱著放開手的歌，不管那個冰雪奇緣的女孩究竟有什麼事需要放手。 （笑聲） 一切充滿了平靜跟簡單。在那裡的空氣是如此稀薄讓我無法呼吸，我幾乎不能相信我在呼吸。玩樂是工作的相反。然而我很快樂。我內在變得放鬆了。我腦中有扇門打開了，一股能量衝進來。這並不是一瞬間的事，但是發生了，確實發生了。我感覺到了。那種感覺緩緩回來了。不是很多，只有一點點，非常安靜，我必須要保持非常平靜才能聽到它，但「嗡」確實存在。不是全部，而是一點點， 現在我覺得自己知道了一個非常神奇的秘密。好吧，還是別得意忘形了。那就只是愛，就只是這樣。沒有特別神奇，沒有什麼秘密，就只是愛，就是一件被我們遺忘的事。「嗡」的狀態、那個工作上的狀態、霸主的狀態，那只是一個替代的東西。如果我必須問你「我是誰」，如果我必須告訴你「我是誰」，如果我形容自己時，只能提那些電視劇、電視的曝光時數，跟我的頭腦有多麼厲害，那麼我就是忘記了真正的「嗡」是什麼。「嗡」不是一種力量、也不只是跟工作有關。「嗡」是跟快樂有關的，真正的「嗡」是由愛而生的。「嗡」是一種電能，來自於生活中的刺激。真正的「嗡」是信心跟平靜。真正的「嗡」不顧歷史的眼光，不顧那些無法回頭的事、不顧那些期待跟壓力。真正的「嗡」是非凡且獨一的。真正的「嗡」是上帝在我耳邊的低語。但是也許上帝說錯了，因為是哪個上帝會跟我說我是個霸主？ 其實就只是愛。我們都需要多一點愛，多更多愛。只要我的孩子邀我一起玩，我都會說好。我把這列為嚴格執行的規定，只為了允許我自己從工作狂的罪惡感中釋放出來，那像條鐵律，所以我無從選擇，而我確實也沒有選擇，要繼續感受那樣的狀態，就沒得選。 我希望如果事情有這麼簡單就好了。但是，我不擅長玩樂。我不喜歡。跟玩樂相比，我比較喜歡工作。這事實讓人難以啟齒跟面對。但我真的不喜歡玩樂。我成天工作，是因為我愛工作。跟待在家比起來，我更喜歡工作。要去承認這事實，是難以想像地難以處理。因為有哪種人比較喜歡工作，比較不喜歡待在家呢？ 就是我。我指的是，坦白說，從我自稱霸主這點，就看得出我就有點問題。 （笑聲） 而其中一個問題絕不是我太過放鬆。 （笑聲） 我們來來回回地繞著庭院奔跑，我們舉辦了一個三十秒的跳舞派對，我們唱節目主題曲、我們玩球。我吹泡泡，然後孩子們把泡泡戳破。我大部分時間感到彆扭、開心又困惑，總是忍不住想查看我的手機。但是那沒關係。我的小小霸主讓我知道如何生活跟宇宙間「嗡」的感受充滿著我，我一直玩耍，然後我不禁想：為什麼我們不一開始就這樣玩呢？ 你也可以做得到。你的孩子邀你一起玩時，每次都說好。你或許覺得我是個不食人間煙火的傻子？你想得沒錯，但你還是做得到的。你是有時間的。你知道為什麼嗎？因為你不是蕾哈娜或大青蛙布偶。你的孩子不會覺得你有趣到想一直跟你玩。 （笑聲） 你只需要 15 分鐘。我的二歲跟四歲的孩子只會想跟我玩頂多 15 分鐘左右，之後就會想到要做別的事了。那是很珍貴的 15 分鐘，但就是 15 分鐘。除非我是瓢蟲或一顆彩糖，否則 15 分鐘後我就會完全像個隱形人。 （笑聲） 而我 13 歲的孩子，如果我能讓她跟我說話 15 分鐘，那我就是年度最佳母親。 （笑聲） 你只需要15 分鐘。就算在我最糟的一天裡，我也完全能挪出不中斷的 15 分鐘。關鍵是不被中斷打擾。不用手機、不洗衣或任何事，你有一個忙碌的生活，你必須準備晚餐，你必須強迫他們去洗澡，但你絕對可以挪出 15 分鐘。我的孩子就像是我的樂園，她們就是我的世界。但不一定只有你的孩子能滿足你內心感受的燃料，「嗡」存在的地方是好的感受多過不好的感受。那不只是跟你的孩子玩耍，而是關於歡樂，是關於在任何事上的樂趣。給你自己 15 分鐘的時間，找到讓你開心的事，去找到，然後在那盡情玩樂就是了。 我對此並不完美。事實上，我失敗的次數相當頻繁，見見朋友、讀一本書、放空發呆，「要一起玩嗎？」變成一種讓我寵愛自己的方式，是在我得到第一個電視節目時、在我成為霸主的過程中、在我開始用未知的方式跟自己較量時，原本萬萬沒想到的。15 分鐘？給自己全心投入的 15 分鐘能有什麼錯？結果並不會有什麼損失。那些想要讓狀態回來的努力，就好像只有我不在時，「嗡」的動力才能重新點燃，工作若缺乏玩樂就不是工作了。 雖然花了一點時間，但幾個月後，一天，閘門打開了，突然有種感覺，我發現自己站在辦公室中，空氣中響起不熟悉的旋律，我感到節奏在我體內律動，環繞著我，帶給我源源不絕的點子，那條大道又敞開了，我可以一直開下去，我再度愛上工作了。然而現在，我喜歡那種感受，但我並沒有愛上那種感覺。我不再需要「嗡」了。我不是「嗡」，而它也不是我，再也不是了。我是那些泡泡、黏黏的手指、跟朋友們的晚餐，我是那個「嗡」。生活的「嗡」。愛的「嗡」。工作的「嗡」還是部分的我，但已經不再是全部的我。我感到如此感激。我不再在乎自己是不是霸主，因為我從沒看過哪個霸主會跑去玩兒童遊戲。 我玩得更多、工作得更少，而我的世界依然運轉著。我的腦袋還是很厲害，我的營火還在燃燒。我玩得越多，我越快樂，我的孩子也是。我玩得越多，我越覺得我是個好媽媽，我玩得越多，我的心智就越自由。我玩得越多，我工作得更好。我玩得越多，我越能感受到那個狀態、那個我打造的王國、那場我跑的馬拉松，那批軍隊、那張畫布、那個高音，那感受、那狀態，其他的「嗡」、真正的「嗡」，生活的「嗡」。當我越能感受到「嗡」，這個奇怪、顫動、破繭而出、怪異、嶄新、充滿生氣的平凡人就越感覺像是我。當我越能感受到「嗡」，我越知道自己是誰：我是作家，我創作，我想像。這部分的工作，就是活在夢想中，那是這個工作的理想狀態。因為一個夢想中的工作，就應該要有點夢幻才對。 我向多點玩樂、少點工作說好。各路霸主請勿輕易嘗試。 要一起玩嗎？ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
