Talk	en	zh-tw
shubhendu_sharma_an_engineers_vision_for_tiny_forests_everywhere	I'm an industrial engineer. The goal in my life has always been to make more and more products in the least amount of time and resources. While working at Toyota, all I knew was how to make cars until I met Dr. Akira Miyawaki, who came to our factory to make a forest in it in order to make it carbon-neutral. I was so fascinated that I decided to learn this methodology by joining his team as a volunteer. Soon, I started making a forest in the backyard of my own house, and this is how it looks after three years. These forests, compared to a conventional plantation, grow 10 times faster, they're 30 times more dense, and 100 times more biodiverse. Within two years of having this forest in our backyard, I could observe that the groundwater didn't dry during summers, the number of bird species I spotted in this area doubled. Quality of air became better, and we started harvesting seasonal fruits growing effortlessly right in the backyard of our house. I wanted to make more of these forests. I was so moved by these results that I wanted to make these forests with the same acumen with which we make cars or write software or do any mainstream business, so I founded a company which is an end-to-end service provider to create these native natural forests. But to make afforestation as a mainstream business or an industry, we had to standardize the process of forest-making. So we benchmarked the Toyota Production System known for its quality and efficiency for the process of forest-making. For an example, the core of TPS, Toyota Production System, lies in heijunka, which is making manufacturing of different models of cars on a single assembly line. We replaced these cars with trees, using which now we can make multi-layered forests. These forests utilize 100 percent vertical space. They are so dense that one can't even walk into them. For an example, we can make a 300-tree forest in an area as small as the parking spaces of six cars. In order to reduce cost and our own carbon footprint, we started utilizing local biomass as soil amender and fertilizers. For example, coconut shells crushed in a machine mixed with rice straw, powder of rice husk mixed with organic manure is finally dumped in soil on which our forest is planted. Once planted, we use grass or rice straw to cover the soil so that all the water which goes into irrigation doesn't get evaporated back into the atmosphere. And using these simple improvisations, today we can make a forest for a cost as low as the cost of an iPhone. Today, we are making forests in houses, in schools, even in factories with the corporates. But that's not enough. There is a huge number of people who want to take matters into their own hands. So we let it happen. Today, we are working on an Internet-based platform where we are going to share our methodology on an open source using which anyone and everyone can make their own forest without our physical presence being there, using our methodology. At the click of a button, they can get to know all the native species of their place. By installing a small hardware probe on site, we can do remote soil testing, using which we can give step-by-step instructions on forest-making remotely. Also we can monitor the growth of this forest without being on site. This methodology, I believe, has a potential. By sharing, we can actually bring back our native forests. Now, when you go back home, if you see a barren piece of land, do remember that it can be a potential forest. Thank you very much. Thanks. (Applause)	我是工業工程師。我畢生的目標就是用最少的時間及資源 製造很多很多的產品。在豐田汽車上班時，我只知道如何製造車子，直到我遇見宮脇昭博士，他到我們的工廠打造一座森林，讓工廠能達到碳中和。我非常著迷，因此我決定去學這門方法，便加入他的團隊當志工。不久後，我開始造林，就造在我家後院，這就是三年後的樣子。 這些森林與一般林園相比，生長速度快十倍，密三十倍，生物多樣性高一百倍。我們家後院有這片森林後不到兩年，我觀察到地下水在夏天時不會枯竭，我在這個地區看到的鳥類數目增加了一倍。空氣品質變得更好，而且我們還開始採收季節性水果，它們毫不費力地生長在我們家的後院。 我想造更多像這樣的森林。這樣的結果讓我深受感動，因此我想造更多像這樣的森林，用我們製造車子、寫軟體，或做任何主流生意一樣的商業頭腦，所以我創辦了一家公司，是個端對端服務供應商，能夠造出這些本土種自然林。但要使造林成為主流商業或一門工業，我們必須標準化造林的製程。所以我們採用豐田生產方式，其以品質及效率著稱，做為造林製程的基準，舉例而言，TPS 的核心價值，即豐田生產方式的價值在於平準化，就是讓不同款車能在同一條裝配線上製造。我們把車換成樹，現在使用這種方法，我們就可以造出多層次的森林。這些森林充分利用垂直空間。它們非常密，密到甚至很難讓人走進去。舉個例，我們可以造一座三百棵樹的森林在小至六個停車位的空間內。為了減少成本及我們的碳足跡，我們開始利用當地的生質做為土壤改良物及肥料。舉個例，椰子殼以機器粉碎後與稻草混合，稻殼粉末與有機糞肥混合，最後倒入我們種植的森林土壤中。一經栽植，我們就使用草或稻草覆蓋土壤，因此拿來灌溉的水不會蒸發回到大氣中。使用這些簡單、隨手可得的方法讓我們今天造林的成本能跟 iPhone 一樣低。 今天，我們在房子裡、學校裡，甚至在公司的工廠裡造林。但這還不夠。有很大一批人想親自採取行動。所以我們就幫他們一把。今天，我們發展網路的商務平台，我們要在上面共享我們的方法，要用開放原始碼，讓任何人皆可使用，而每個人都能造出自己的森林，不需要我們親自到顧客所在地，用我們的方法就能辦到。只要按一個鈕，他們就能知道有哪些本土種在當地生長。藉由安裝在現場的一個小型硬體探針，我們就能在遠端測試土壤，也能提供操作步驟，遠距教導如何造林。我們還能監測森林的成長，不需親臨現場。 我相信這門方法很有潛力。藉由共享，我們確實能把本土的森林找回來。現在，當你回到家，如果你看見一塊不毛之地，請記得那也可能成為一片森林。 非常感謝。謝謝！ （掌聲）
