Talk	en	zh-tw
siamak_hariri_how_do_you_build_a_sacred_space	"The school of architecture that I studied at some 30 years ago happened to be across the street from the wonderful art gallery designed by the great architect Louis Kahn. I love the building, and I used to visit it quite often. One day, I saw the security guard run his hand across the concrete wall. And it was the way he did it, the expression on his face — something touched me. I could see that the security guard was moved by the building and that architecture has that capacity to move you. I could see it, and I remember thinking, ""Wow. How does architecture do that?"" At school, I was learning to design, but here — here was a reaction of the heart. And it touched me to the core. You know, you aspire for beauty, for sensuousness, for atmosphere, the emotional response. That's the realm of the ineffable and the immeasurable. And that's what you live for: a chance to try. So in 2003, there was an open call for designs for the Bahá'í Temple for South America. This was the first temple in all of South America. It's a continental temple, a hugely important milestone for the Bahá'í community, because this would be the last of the continental temples and would open the door for national and local temples to be built around the world. And the brief was deceptively simple and unique in the annals of religion: a circular room, nine sides, nine entrances, nine paths, allowing you to come to the temple from all directions, nine symbolizing completeness, perfection. No pulpit, no sermons, as there are no clergy in the Bahá'í faith. And in a world which is putting up walls, the design needed to express in form the very opposite. It had to be open, welcoming to people of all faiths, walks of life, backgrounds, or no faith at all; a new form of sacred space with no pattern or models to draw from. It was like designing one of the first churches for Christianity or one of the first mosques for Islam. So we live in a secular world. How do you design sacred space today? And how do you even define what's sacred today? I stumbled across this beautiful quote from the Bahá'í writings, and it speaks to prayer. It says that if you reach out in prayer, and if your prayer is answered — which is already very interesting — that the pillars of your heart will become ashine. And I loved this idea of the inner and the outer, like when you see someone and you say, ""That person is radiant."" And I was thinking, ""My gosh, how could we make something architectural out of that, where you create a building and it becomes alive with light? Like alabaster, if you kiss it with light, it becomes alive. And I drew this sketch, something with two layers, translucent with structure in between capturing light. Maybe a pure form, a single form of emanation that you could imagine would be all dome and everything we kept making was looking too much like an egg. (Laughter) A blob. So you search. You all know this crazy search, letting the process take you, and you live for the surprises. And I remember quite by accident I saw this little video of a plant moving in light, and it made me think of movement, reach, this idea that the temple could have reach, like this reach for the divine. You can imagine also that movement within a circle could mean movement and stillness, like the cosmos, something you see in many places. (Laughter) But rotation was not enough, because we needed a form. In the Bahá'í writings, it talks about the temples being as perfect as is humanly possible, and we kept thinking, well, what is perfection? And I remember I stumbled into this image of this Japanese basket and thinking our Western notions of perfection need to be challenged, that this wonderful silhouette of this basket, this wonkiness, and that it has the kind of dimple of what you might imagine a shoulder or the cheekbone, and that kind of organic form. And so we drew and made models, these lines that merge at the top, soft lines, which became like drapery and translucent veils and folding, and the idea of not only folding but torquing — you remember the plant and the way it was reaching. And this started to become an interesting form, carving the base, making the entrances. And then we ended up with this. This is this temple with two layers, nine luminous veils, embodied light, soft-flowing lines like luminescent drapery. 180 submissions were received from 80 countries, and this was selected. So we went to the next stage of how to build it. We had submitted alabaster. But alabaster was too soft, and we were experimenting, many experiments with materials, trying to think how we could have this kind of shimmer, and we ended up with borosilicate. And borosilicate glass, as you know, is very strong, and if you break borosilicate rods just so and melt them at just the right temperature, we ended up with this new material, this new cast glass which took us about two years to make. And it had this quality that we loved, this idea of the embodied light, but on the inside, we wanted something with a soft light, like the inner lining of a jacket. On the outside you have protection, but on the inside you touch it. So we found this tiny vein in a huge quarry in Portugal with this beautiful stone, which the owner had kept for seven generations in his family, waiting for the right project, if you can believe it. Look at this material, it's beautiful. And the way it lights up; it has that translucent quality. So here you see the structure. It lets the light through. And looking down, the nine wings are bound, structurally but symbolically strong, a great symbol of unity: pure geometry, a perfect circle, 30 meters in section and in plan, perfectly symmetrical, like the idea of sacredness and geometry. And here you see the building going up, 2,000 steel nodes, 9,000 pieces of steel, 7,800 stone pieces, 10,000 cast glass pieces, all individual shapes, the entire superstructure all described, engineered, fabricated with aerospace technology, prefabricated machine to machine, robotically, a huge team effort, you can imagine, of literally hundreds, and within three percent of our $30 million budget set in 2006. (Applause) Nine wings bound together forming a nine-pointed star, and the star shape moving in space, tracking the sun. So here it is. Audience: Wow! (Applause) Hopefully, a befitting response to that beautiful quote, ""a prayer answered,"" open in all directions, capturing the blue light of dawn, tent-like white light of day, the gold light of the afternoon, and of course, at night, the reversal: sensuous, catching the light in all kinds of mysterious ways. And the site: it's interesting; 14 years ago when we made the submission, we showed the temple set against the Andes. We didn't have the Andes as our site, but after nine years, that's exactly where we ended up, the lines of the temple set against nothing but pure nature, and you turn around and you get nothing but the city below you, and inside, a view in all directions, radiating gardens from each of the alcoves, radiating paths. Last October, the opening ceremonies — a beautiful, sacred event, 5,000 people from 80 countries, a continuous river of visitors, indigenous people from all over South America, some who had never left their villages. And of course, that this temple belongs to people, the collective, of many cultures and walks of life, many beliefs, and for me, what's most important is what it feels like on the inside; that it feel intimate, sacred, and that everyone is welcome. And if even a few who come have the same reaction as that security guard, then it truly would be their temple. And I would love that. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在三十年前就讀的建築學院對面是一座令人驚豔的美術館是由名建築師路易斯．康設計我很愛這棟建築，也經常造訪有一天我看見警衛用手輕輕劃過水泥牆而看著他這樣的舉動還有臉上的神情某種東西觸動了我我可以看出警衛也深受那棟建築感動建築就是有這樣的魔力足以感動人心這個場景仍歷歷在目，我當時想著哇，建築要怎麼擁有這種力量 我在學校裡學的是設計但在這裡的—卻是心靈的真實反映那深深觸動了我 我們知道，人們追尋美麗的事物是為了感官愉悅或氣氛這類情感上的需求這是個無法言喻也不可丈量的領域這就是我們生活的目的：擁有嘗試的機會 2003年時有場公開徵選徵的是南美洲巴哈伊靈曦堂的設計圖這在當時是全南美第一間靈曦堂且是間洲際性的靈曦堂是巴哈伊信仰的重大里程碑這是最後一座洲際性神廟也促使地區靈曦堂遍布於世界各地 它的結構看似簡單在宗教史上卻是獨一無二它是由一個圓廳九面牆、九個入口及九條小徑組成讓民眾能夠從各個方向進入靈曦堂「九」這個數字象徵完整以及完美建築中沒有講道壇、沒有佈道因為巴哈伊信仰中沒有神職人員在這個充斥隔閡的世界設計必須藉由形式上表達一個完全相反的概念也就是開放與包容各種信仰、階級、背景或是沒有任何信仰的人這是神聖空間的全新形式別出心裁不落窠臼就像在設計第一座基督教教堂或第一座伊斯蘭教清真寺 既然我們身處在世俗的世界當今的我們該如何建築神聖空間更甚者，我們該如何定義「神聖」 我曾偶然發現一句優美的巴哈伊禱文那是關於禱告的意義它說，若你誠心祈禱並真的得到回應-這本身就夠神奇了那就會點亮你的心房 我很喜歡這個內在與外在的概念就像是你看到一個人時你說，這人真是容光煥發我就心想： 天啊，我該怎麼把這運用到建築上？要怎麼讓一個建築物因為光而生動呢就像是雪花石膏它會因光的襯托而有了生命於是我就畫了這張圖它有兩層，而且半透明中間的結構能捕捉光影若提到發散光芒最簡單的形式我們都會直接聯想到圓頂的樣式我們所建築的一切都長得太像蛋了 （觀眾笑聲） 或是水滴 所以我們追尋我們都知道這段瘋狂的探尋會帶給我們無限驚奇而我恰巧記得曾經看過一部植物趨光性的短片這讓我想到了動態與追尋這都可以應用在靈曦堂上就像是對神聖的追尋我們也能想像在圓圈內的移動能同時展現動與靜和宇宙的旋一樣隨處可見 （觀眾笑聲） 但這樣的旋還不夠因為我們需要一種形式在巴哈伊的篇章中曾提到靈曦堂應盡可能地完美而我們所要思考的就是：什麼是完美？我記得當時無意間瞧見這張日本籃子的圖片就覺得西方對於完美的觀念必須被挑戰這籃子的輪廓奇妙，外觀有些歪斜表面的凹陷或許會讓人聯想到肩窩或酒窩這類有生命的形式所以我們設計、製作出模型也就是這些在上端匯合的線條這些柔軟的線條像是垂墜的帳帘與半透明的面紗及褶層不只是折疊的概念，還有扭轉的形式還記得剛剛那株植物伸展的方式吧這開始成為一種引人入勝的形式了挖掘基地，建置入口 我們最終得到這個結果這就是那間雙層靈曦堂九道發光的紗帳蘊含其中的光源柔美流動的線條就像是透著光的帷幕我們收到超過80個國家的180份提案最後這份雀屏中選 接下來就要思考如何建造我們原先想用雪花石膏但那太軟了所以我們又用其他材料做了實驗試圖讓它產生這樣的微光最後我們決定用硼矽酸玻璃硼矽酸玻璃很強韌若要重塑玻璃得先把它融化還必須在特定溫度我們最後選用這種新材料這個新鑄造的玻璃花了我們兩年的時間我們很喜歡這種玻璃的特質因為它能夠透光但也希望內部有個柔和的光源像是外套的內襯一樣外層提供保護，內層則會實際接觸到肌膚我們在葡萄牙發現一條小礦脈礦脈中富含這種美麗的石頭這些石頭在礦主家傳了七代只為等待合適的計畫，信不信由你看看這個石材，多麼美麗點亮它後，會呈現半透明的狀態 這邊可以看到建築架構光線能夠透過去而往下俯瞰九面側翼一同匯聚結構堅固且意義重大那是合一的象徵也是純粹的幾何與完美的圓每部分高達30公尺，就跟設計圖上的一樣完美的對稱就像是神聖與幾何的概念我們一路看著建築向上興建2000個鋼骨節點9000片建築鋼7800片石材一萬片鑄造玻璃，每片獨立成形剛提到的整個上層建築是以航太技術設計、打造以多臺機器預先製造過程精密準確這是大規模的團隊合作由數百人組成只用了三千萬預算中的3%這是在2006年訂下的 （觀眾掌聲） 九面側翼匯聚形成一顆九芒星這顆星星會隨著時空移動追隨著陽光 這就是最終樣貌！ （觀眾驚呼） （觀眾掌聲） 我們希望這能呼應那句優美的禱文「蒙應允的祈禱」向四面八方開展捕捉破曉時的藍光白晝時有著帷幕狀的白光午後則有金黃色的光芒當然，到了晚上，一切翻轉：這是感性的以各種神祕的方式捕捉光 有趣的是，我們14年前提交建案時是把靈曦堂設立在與安第斯山相對的位置我們沒有要將安第斯山當作靈曦堂的位址但9年之後，卻真的建在安第斯山旁靈曦堂的輪廓與純粹的自然相映轉過身便能俯瞰整座城市室內則有360度美景放射狀的花園從各壁龕外旋形成輻射狀的步道 去年十月的開幕儀式既美麗又神聖來自80個國家的5000位參與者接踵而至包含許多南美洲原住民當中有些甚至不曾離開自己的村莊而這座神廟當然屬於人民這些人民來自不同文化背景及各行各業擁有不同信仰對我來說，最重要的是內在的感覺那是種親密的感覺神聖的感覺我們歡迎所有的人而要是真的有些人有和警衛相同的反應那就真的是屬於他們的神廟我也會很高興 謝謝各位 （觀眾掌聲）
