Talk	en	zh-tw
simon_berrow_how_do_you_save_a_shark_you_know_nothing_about	"Basking sharks are awesome creatures. They are just magnificent. They grow 10 meters long; some say bigger. They might weigh up to two tons. Some say up to five tons. They're the second-largest fish in the world. They're also harmless plankton-feeding animals. And they are thought to be able to filter a cubic kilometer of water every hour and can feed on 30 kilos of zoo plankton a day to survive. They're fantastic creatures. We're very lucky in Ireland, we have plenty of basking sharks and plenty of opportunities to study them. They were very important to coastal communities, going back hundreds of years, especially around the Claddaghduff, Connemara region where subsistence farmers used to sail out on their hookers and open boats, sometimes way offshore to a place called the Sunfish Bank, about 30 miles west of Achill Island, to kill the basking sharks. This is a woodcut from about the 1800s. They were very important, for the oil out of their liver. A third of the basking shark's size is their liver, and it's full of oil, gallons of oil. That oil was used especially for lighting, but also for dressing wounds and other things. In fact, the streetlights in 1742, of Galway, Dublin and Waterford, were lit with sunfish oil. ""Sunfish"" is one of the words for basking sharks. So they were incredibly important animals. They've been around a long time, very important to coastal communities. Probably the best-documented basking shark fishery in the world is that from Achill Island. This is Keem Bay up in Achill Island. Sharks used to come into the bay, and the fishermen would tie a net off the headland, string it out, an old Manila net, and as the shark came round, it would hit the net, the net would collapse on it. It would often drown and suffocate. Or at times, they would row out in their small curraghs and kill it with a lance through the back of the neck. And then they'd tow the sharks back to Purteen Harbour, boil them up, use the oil. They also used the flesh as well, for fertilizer and also would fin the sharks. This is probably the biggest threat to sharks worldwide — the finning of sharks. We're often frightened of sharks, thanks to ""Jaws."" Maybe five or six people get killed by sharks every year. There was someone recently, wasn't there? Just a couple weeks ago. We kill about 100 million sharks a year. So I don't know what the balance is, but I think sharks have more right to be fearful of us than we have of them. It was a well-documented fishery. As you can see here, it peaked in the '50s, where they were killing 1,500 sharks a year. And it declined very fast — a classic boom-and-bust fishery, which suggests that a stock has been depleted or there's low reproductive rates. They killed about 12,000 sharks within this period, literally just by stringing a Manila rope off the tip of Keem Bay up in Achill Island. Sharks were still killed up into the mid-80s, especially out of places like Dunmore East in County Waterford. About two and a half, 3,000 sharks were killed up till '85, mainly by Norwegian vessels. You can't really see, but these are Norwegian basking shark hunting vessels. The black line in the crow's nest signifies this is a shark vessel, rather than a whaling vessel. The importance of basking sharks to the coast communities is recognized through the language. I don't pretend to [know many Irish words], but in Kerry they were often known as ""ainmhide Na seolta,"" ""the monster with the sails."" Another title would be ""liop an dá lapa,"" ""the unwieldy beast with two fins."" ""Liabhán mór,"" suggesting a big animal. Or my favorite, ""liabhán chor gréine,"" ""the great fish of the sun."" That's a lovely, evocative name. On Tory Island — a strange place anyway — they were known as ""muldoons."" (Laughter) No one seems to know why. Hope there's no one from Tory here. Lovely place. But more commonly all around the island, they were known as the sunfish. And this represents their habit of basking on the surface when the sun is out. There's great concern that basking sharks are depleted all throughout the world. Some say it's not population decline, it might be a change in the distribution of plankton. It's been suggested that these sharks would make fantastic indicators of climate change, as they're basically continuous plankton recorders, swimming around with their mouth open. They're now listed as vulnerable under the IUCN. There's movements in Europe to try and stop catching them. There's now a ban on catching and even landing them, even landing ones caught accidentally. They're not protected in Ireland; in fact, they have no legislative status in Ireland whatsoever, despite our importance for the species and also the historical context within which basking sharks reside. We know very little about them. And most of what we do know is based on their habit of coming to the surface — we try and guess what they're doing from their behavior on the surface. I only found out last year, at a conference on the Isle of Man, just how unusual it is to live somewhere where basking sharks regularly, frequently and predictably come to the surface to ""bask."" It's a fantastic opportunity for a scientist to see and experience basking sharks. They are awesome creatures. It gives us a fantastic opportunity to study them, to get access to them. What we've been doing for a couple years — last year was a big year — is we started tagging sharks, so we could try to get some idea of sight fidelity and movement and things like that. So we concentrated mainly in North Donegal and West Kerry as the two areas where I was mainly active. And we tagged them very simply, not very high-tech, with a big, long pole. This is a beachcaster rod with a tag on the end. You go up in your boat and tag the shark. And we were very effective. We tagged 105 sharks last summer. We got 50 in three days off Inishowen Peninsula. Half the challenge to get access is to be in the right place at the right time. But it's a very simple, easy technique; I'll show you what it looks like. We use a pole camera on the boat to actually film the shark. One, it's to try and work out the gender of the shark. We also deployed some satellite tags, so we did use high-tech stuff as well. These are archival tags. What they do is store the data. A satellite tag only works when the air is clear of the water and can send a signal to the satellite. And sharks and fish are underwater most of the time, so this tag actually works out the locations of shark, depending on the timing and the setting of the sun, plus water temperature and depth. And you have to kind of reconstruct the path. What happens is, you set the tag to detach from the shark after a fixed period — in this case, eight months — and literally to the day, the tag popped off, drifted up, said hello to the satellite and sent, not all the data, but enough data for us to use. This is the only way to really work out their behavior and movements when they're underwater. And here's a couple of maps that we've done. In that one, you can see that we tagged both off Kerry. Basically, it spent all its time, the last eight months, in Irish waters. On Christmas, it was out on the shelf edge. Here's one we haven't ground-truthed yet with sea-surface temperature and water depth, but again, the second shark spent most of its time in and around the Irish Sea. Colleagues from the Isle of Man last year actually tagged one shark that went from the Isle of Man to Nova Scotia in about 90 days. Nine and a half thousand kilometers — we never thought that happened. Another colleague in the States tagged about 20 sharks off Massachusetts. His tags didn't really work. All he knows is where he tagged them, and where they popped off. His tags popped off in the Caribbean, and even in Brazil. We thought basking sharks were temperate animals and lived in our latitudes, but in actual fact, they're obviously crossing the equator as well. So very simple things like that, we're trying to learn about basking sharks. One thing that I think is a very surprising and strange thing is just how low the genetic diversity of sharks is. I'm not a geneticist, so I won't pretend to understand the genetics. And that's why it's great to have collaboration. Whereas I'm a field person, I get panic attacks if I have to spend too many hours in a lab with a white coat on. Take me away. So we can work with geneticists who understand that. So when they looked at the genetics of basking sharks, they found that the diversity was incredibly low. If you look at the first line, really, you can see that all these different shark species are all quite similar. I think this means they're all sharks and they've come from a common ancestry. But if you look at nucleotide diversity, which is more genetics that are passed on through the parents, you see that basking sharks, if you look at the first study, was order of magnitude less diverse even than other shark species. You can see this work was only done in 2006. Before 2006, we had no idea of the genetic variability of basking sharks. We had no idea: Did they distinguish into different populations? Were there subpopulations? And that's very important if you want to know what the population size is, and the status of the animals. So, Les Noble in Aberdeen kind of found this a bit unbelievable, really. So he did another study using microsatellites, which is much more expensive, much more time-consuming, and to his surprise, came up with almost identical results. So it does seem to be that basking sharks, for some reason, have incredibly low diversity. And it's thought maybe it was a genetic bottleneck, thought to have been 12,000 years ago, and this has caused a very low diversity. And yet, if you look at the whale shark, which is the other plankton-eating large shark, its diversity is much greater. So it doesn't really make sense at all. They found that there was no genetic differentiation between any of the world's oceans of basking sharks: even though they're found throughout the world, you couldn't tell the difference, genetically, from one from the Pacific, Atlantic, New Zealand, Ireland, South Africa. They all basically seem the same. Which, again, is kind of surprising; you wouldn't expect that. I don't understand or pretend to understand this; I suspect most geneticists don't either, but they produce the numbers. So you can actually estimate the population size based on the diversity of the genetics. And Rus Hoelzel came up with an effective population size: 8,200 animals. That's it — 8,000 animals in the world. You're thinking, ""That's ridiculous. No way."" So Les did a finer study, and he found out it came out about 9,000. Using different microsatellites gave the different results, but the mean of all these studies is about 5,000, which I personally don't believe. But then, I am a skeptic. But even if you toss a few numbers around, you're probably talking an effective population of about 20,000 animals. Do you remember how many they killed off Achill in the 70s and the 50s? So what it tells us, actually, is that there's actually a risk of extinction of this species because its population is so small. In fact, of those 20,000, 8,000 were thought to be females. There's only 8,000 basking shark females in the world? I don't know. I don't believe it. The problem with this is they were constrained with samples. They didn't get enough samples to really explore the genetics in enough detail. So, where do you get samples from for your genetic analysis? Well, one obvious source is dead sharks — dead sharks, washed up. We might get two or three dead sharks washed up in Ireland a year, if we're kind of lucky. Another source would be fisheries' bycatch. We were getting quite a few caught in surface drift nets. That's banned now, and that'll be good news for the sharks. And some are caught in nets, in trawls. This is a shark that was actually landed in Howth just before Christmas — illegally, because you're not allowed to do that under EU law — and was actually sold for eight euros a kilo as shark steak. They even put a recipe up on the wall, until they were told it was illegal. They actually did get a fine for that. So if you look at all those studies I showed you, the total number of samples worldwide is 86, at present. So it's very important work, and they can ask some really good questions, and tell us about population size and subpopulations and structure, but they're constrained by lack of samples. When we were out tagging our sharks — this is how we tagged them on the front of a RIB, get in there fast — occasionally, the sharks do react. On one occasion, when we were up in Malin Head in Donegal, the shark smacked the side of the boat with his tail, more, I think, in startle to the fact that a boat came near it, rather than the tag going in. And that was fine. We got wet. No problem. And then when myself and Emmett got back to Malin Head, to the pier, I noticed some black slime on the front of the boat. I used to spend a lot of time on commercial fishing boats, and I remember fishermen saying they can tell when a basking shark has been caught in a net, because it leaves a black slime behind. So that must have come from the shark. Now, we had an interest in getting tissue samples for genetics because we knew they were very valuable. We would use conventional methods; I have a crossbow — you see it in my hand there, which we use to sample whales and dolphins for genetic studies as well. So I tried that, I tried many techniques. All it was doing was breaking my arrows, because the shark's skin is just so strong. There was no way we were going to get a sample from that. That wasn't going to work. So when I saw the black slime on the bow of the boat, I thought, ""If you take what you're given in this world ..."" So I scraped it off. I had a little tube with alcohol in it to send to the geneticists. So I scraped the slime off and sent it to Aberdeen, and said, ""You might try that."" And they sat on it for months. It was only because we had a conference on the Isle of Man. But I kept emailing Les, saying, ""Have you had a chance to look at my slime?"" And he was like, ""Yeah, yeah. Later."" He thought he'd better do it because I never met him before; he might lose face if he hadn't done the thing I sent him. And he was amazed that they actually got DNA from the slime. They amplified it and they tested it, and they found, yes, this was actually basking shark DNA, which was got from the slime. So he was very excited. It became known as ""Simon's shark slime."" And I thought, ""Hey, you know, I can build on this."" So we thought, OK, we're going to try to get out and get some slime. So having spent three-and-a-half thousand on satellite tags ... I then thought I'd invest 7.95 — the price is still on it — in my local hardware store in Kilrush for a mop handle, and even less money on some oven cleaners. And I wrapped the oven cleaner around the edge of the mop handle and ... (Laughter) I was desperate to have an opportunity to get some sharks. And this was into August now, and normally sharks peak in June, July, and you rarely see them, or rarely can be in the right place to find sharks into August. We were desperate, so we rushed out to the Blaskets as soon as we heard there were sharks there, and managed to find some sharks. So by just rubbing the mop handle down the shark as it swam under the boat — you see a shark running under the boat here — we managed to collect slime. And here it is. Look at that lovely black shark slime. And in about half an hour, we got five samples. Five individual sharks were sampled using Simon's Shark Slime Sampling System. (Laughter) (Applause) I've been working on whales and dolphins in Ireland for 20 years now, and they're a bit more dramatic. You probably saw the humpback whale footage we got a month or two ago off County Wexford. And you always think you might have some legacy you can leave the world behind, and I was thinking of humpback whales breaching and dolphins. But hey — sometimes these things are sent to you and you just have to take them when they come. So this is possibly going to be my legacy — Simon's Shark Slime. We got more money this year to carry on collecting more and more samples. One thing that is very useful is that we use a pole camera — this is my colleague, Joanne, with a pole camera — where you can look underneath the shark. What you're trying to look at is, the males have claspers, which kind of dangle out behind the back of the shark. So you can quite easily tell the gender of the shark. If we can tell the gender of the shark before we sample it, we can tell the geneticist this was taken from a male or a female. Because in the moment, they have no way, genetically, of telling the difference between a male and a female, which I find staggering, because they don't know what primers to look for. Being able to tell the gender of a shark is very important for things like policing the trade in basking shark and other species through the sightings, because it is illegal to trade in these sharks. And they are caught and are on the market. So as a field biologist, you just want to get encounters with these animals, and learn as much as you can. They're often quite brief, they're often very seasonally constrained. You just want to learn as much as you can as soon as you can. But isn't it fantastic that you can then offer these samples and opportunities to other disciplines, such as the geneticists, who can gain so much more from that. So as I said, these things are sent to you in strange ways. Grab them while you can. I'll take that as my scientific legacy. Hopefully, I might get something a bit more dramatic and romantic before I die. But for the time being, thank you for that. And keep an eye out for sharks. If you're more interested, we have a basking shark website now set up. So thank you and thank you for listening. (Applause)"	姥鯊是相當美妙的生物，真的非常不可思議牠們身長足足有10公尺也有人說比10公尺長體重達2噸也有人認為將近5噸牠們是全世界第二大的魚類是以捕食浮游生物為主的無害動物據說每小時可以過濾1立方公里的海水每天攝食高達30公斤的浮游動物實在是太不可思議了愛爾蘭有許多姥鯊讓我們有幸能研究牠們 姥鯊對海洋生態社區也是相當重要的早在幾百年前特別在克拉達、達夫和康尼瑪拉地區獨立農夫會出海乘著漁船出海到一個叫太陽魚淺灘的地方大概離愛奇島48公里以西的位置去捕殺姥鯊這是來自17, 18世紀的木版畫 因為姥鯊肝臟含很多肝油，所以當時地位非凡肝臟占身體的1/3，滿滿是油從牠們的肝臟就能提鍊出好幾加侖的肝油這些油當時主要供照明用途除此之外也可用來治療傷口等等事實上，在1742年戈爾韋、都柏林和沃特福的路燈多多少少都跟太陽魚肝油有關姥鯊又叫「太陽魚」所以牠們算是相當重要的動物歷史久遠，對海洋生態社區也非常重要 擁有全世界最完整的姥鯊文獻紀錄的就是愛奇島這是愛奇島的欽灣以前鯊魚會在這裡出沒漁夫就會把魚網掛在岬角上再展開和其他魚網連接鯊魚來了一觸碰到魚網，網子就會掉下來鯊魚就會因窒息而溺死有時候還會划小船出去用魚叉往牠們背後戳最後在一路將屍體拖回波庭港口煮沸，再提練肝油剩下來的肉也被用來當肥料當然也會採割魚翅全球最大的鯊魚元兇就是採割魚翅這個行為了 看過「大白鯊」這部電影的人都對鯊魚懷有恐懼之心每年大概有5-6人死於鯊魚攻擊前陣子不是就有人遇害？才幾個禮拜前而已但我們每年捕殺1億條鯊魚真曉得天理何在照理講，鯊魚應該要比較怕我們才對這個獵捕行為紀錄完整從這裡可以看到，在50年代達到高峰每年獵殺高達1500條鯊魚接著急遽下降，這就是漁業大起大落的特性這就顯示鯊魚的數量已所剩無幾不然就是繁殖率非常低在這期間將近12,000隻鯊魚遭殺害光是愛奇島的欽灣用馬尼拉繩捕殺的數量就這麼多了 一直到80年代中期，獵鯊行為仍盛行尤其是在沃特福的鄧莫爾東郡地區到1985年還是有2500到3000條鯊魚遭捕殺其中有很多是挪威的漁船圖中黑色的船，這裡有點看不清楚，是挪威獵捕姥鯊的船隻瞭望臺上的黑線表明這是一艘獵捕鯊魚的船而不是捕鯨船 姥鯊在海洋生態社區占有的重要地位體現在語言上我不想假裝自己很懂愛爾蘭語不過在凱里郡，大家把姥鯊形容為「Ainmhide na seolta」意指「帶帆的怪物」還有另一個稱號是「Liop an da lapa」意思是「龐大笨重的兩鰭怪」還有「Liabhan mor」，形容巨大的動物還有我最愛的別名「Liabhan chor greine」也就是「偉大的太陽魚」還滿可愛又充滿聯想的名字托裏島上，反正那裡也滿奇怪的，姥鯊又叫「馬爾登」沒有人知道為什麼希望在座沒有來自托裏島的朋友，那裡很迷人不過最常用的別名是太陽魚這個名字最能代表牠們喜歡曬太陽的行為 姥鯊在全球各地瀕臨絕種的現象非常令人擔憂有人認為這不是數量的減少可能是浮游生物分布情況改變了也有人認為姥鯊數量的減少是反映溫室效應的指標因為牠們最能反映浮游生物的狀況成天嘴巴開開游來游去的國際自然保護聯盟已將姥鯊列為「瀕危」狀態歐洲各國也正嘗試採取行動停止獵捕活動現在已立法禁止捕捉姥鯊，甚至禁止讓牠們上岸就連意外捕捉到的也不行然而，愛爾蘭卻沒有保護姥鯊事實上，愛爾蘭完全沒有相關禁止的法律條文儘管我們知道姥鯊有多重要以及牠們賴以生存的歷史意義 我們對姥鯊的了解甚少所了解最多的也只能從牠們喜愛浮出水面的習慣下手然後試著揣測她們的行為從牠們在水面上的行為來猜測我一直要到去年一場在曼島的會議中才意識到，住在一個姥鯊經常固定浮出水面來曬太陽的地方是多麼難得這對科學研究來說，能親眼看到姥鯊實在是相當可貴牠們真的是非常不可思議的生物住在這裡，使我們可以實際研究、接近牠們 我們好幾年來在做的事—去年對我們來說滿重大的我們開始標幟鯊魚這樣才能追蹤牠們的動態以及棲地忠實性我們主要集中在登內加爾北部和凱里郡西部這兩個區塊我比較熟悉我們標識的方法非常簡單又有點土法煉鋼是用一個又大又長的竿子這是一個beachcaster牌的竿子在尾端有標幟就到船上標幟鯊魚我們相當有效率去年夏天就標了105條鯊魚三天內就在印尼豪恩半島標了50條鯊魚 主要是抓準時間，也要抓對地點不過這是一個非常簡單的技術來給大家看牠們的樣子我們在船上使用竿子上的相機來拍攝鯊魚首先要分辨鯊魚的性別我們也用了一些衛星標，所以也有運用到高科技產品這些是衛星檔案標幟可以儲存資料衛星標只能在接觸空氣並沒有水的狀況下才能使用並發送訊號給衛星當然，鯊魚和魚類大部份的時間都在水裡所以這個標幟會根據時間和太陽的升降來推斷鯊魚的位置其中也會考量海水的溫度和深淺我們必須根據收集的資料重建路線 要設定讓標幟在一定的時間後自動脫落我們的設定是八個月時間到了，標幟會浮出水面，傳資料給衛星而且並不是全部的資料，而是讓我們足以使用的資料這是唯一可以摸透牠們在水裡行為的辦法 這邊是我們做的一些地圖可以看到兩個都在凱里郡標幟到鯊魚基本上牠在過去八個月都在愛爾蘭海域活動聖誕節跑到棚緣這個我們還沒實地勘察海面溫度及水深不過，第二隻鯊魚大部份時間也在愛爾蘭海域活動去年有一位曼島的同事標到一隻鯊魚在90天以內從曼島跑到加拿大的新斯科舍省去距離有9500公里，相當驚人 還有另一個美國的同事在麻省標了大概20隻鯊魚，他的標幟有點故障只知道標幟的地點和最後浮出來的位置結果他的標幟竟出現在加勒比海甚至在巴西我們以為姥鯊是溫帶動物只能在我們這裡的緯度生存不過事實上，牠們很明顯也會到赤道地區 所以我們就是企圖瞭解姥鯊的這些簡單的事情我發現有一件非常奇特的現象就是鯊魚的基因多樣性很低我不是基因學家，也沒有要假裝自己很懂基因學這時候跟別人合作就很棒我擅長田野調查如果要我在實驗室待好幾小時我就會瘋掉這時候就可以和擅長這塊的基因學家合作當他們觀察姥鯊的基因就發現基因多樣性極低 你看看第一條線就可以看到這些不同種類的鯊魚長得滿相近的這大概就表示牠們都是鯊魚且來自相同的祖先如果觀察核苷酸多樣性也就是由父母傳下來的基因會發現姥鯊，看第一份報告多樣性比其他鯊魚種類還低這份研究在2006年完成 在2006年之前，我們對姥鯊的基因多樣性毫無概念我們不知道牠們是否分散為不同的族群？那麼次族群又在哪裡？這是很重要的資訊也就是動物的族群及現況英國阿伯丁大學的諾柏覺得這相當不可思議於是他做了另一項研究並使用微衛星微衛星更貴又更費時間最後結果卻幾乎一模一樣 所以看起來姥鯊的基因多樣性確實極低也許這是一個瓶頸，一個基因上的瓶頸可能在12,000年前造成了非常低的多樣性不過你看豆腐鯊另一個以浮游生物為食的大型鯊魚多樣性就高很多 這實在是沒道理他們發現在世界上的姥鯊沒有基因上的差別即使姥鯊分布在世界各地在基因上卻沒有差別不管是大西洋、太平洋、紐西蘭、愛爾蘭或南非牠們基本上都一樣這也是相當驚人的發現，很令人感到意外我不懂，也不假裝懂我想大部份的基因學家也感到不解不過他們會產生數據 所以你可以根據基因多樣性推算族群的數量羅斯荷澤計算出相當準確的數字一共有8200隻就這樣世界上就只有八千隻你一定會覺得「這太扯了，不可能」不過諾柏做了更精確的研究結果數字大概落在9000使用不同的微衛星得到不同結果不過所有的研究平均出來—平均數為5000我個人不相信這份報告結果不過我這個人一向就會抱持懷疑的態度但就算你把數字換一換有效的族群數字也大概在20,000隻記不記得70年代和50年代我們在阿基爾島殺了多少隻鯊魚？所以這個數據其實是要告訴我們這個種類面臨絕種的危機因為牠們的族群很小事實上，在那20,000當中，其中只有8000隻是母的全世界就只有8000隻母姥鯊？我不知道，我不相信 問題在於基因學家受困於樣本他們沒有足夠的樣本來仔細去研究這些基因那到底要從哪裡去蒐集到需要的基因樣本呢？一個滿明顯的來源就是死掉的鯊魚沖上岸的死鯊魚愛爾蘭每年大概會有2-3隻死鯊魚被沖上岸假如我們幸運的話另一個來源就是漁業混獲我們在海洋漂網中捕獲過蠻多條姥鯊的此活動現在已立法禁止，這對鯊魚是個好消息還有一些是由魚網、拖網捕捉到的這一條是在聖誕節都柏林的后斯地區非法捕到的因為歐盟法律已禁止這種行為在這之前，鯊魚肉事實上是以一公斤8歐元的價錢賣出在牆上還會有食譜教你怎麼烹煮鯊魚煙這些人後來有被罰錢 那麼如果看這些研究報告全世界的樣本總數為86條可見這是非常重要的工作也可以從中發現很重要的問題這些報告能顯示族群大小亞群數量及其結構不過因樣本數的不足而導致研究受限制 我們出海標鯊魚時這是我們標鯊魚肋骨的方法-動作迅速-有時候鯊魚也會反抗有一次我們在多尼戈爾的馬林角地區一隻鯊魚用牠的尾鰭衝撞船的側身我想是因為船離牠很近而受驚而不是因為我們要作標幟但那沒關係，只不過是淋溼了而已還有一次我跟艾密特要回馬林頭碼頭我注意到船前有黑色的黏液這時我就想起-我以前待過漁船-我記得漁夫告訴我只要魚網裡有姥鯊就會留下黑色的黏液所以我就心想那一定是姥鯊留下來的黏液 我們一直想取得組織樣本來作基因研究因為這些樣本非常寶貴我們會用傳統方法我會拿一個石弓，在這裡會看到我手中的石弓我們也會用這個來取鯨魚及海豚樣本來作基因研究我就試了那個方法，試遍各種方法但結果石弓都斷了因為鯊魚的皮太硬想用這種方法取樣本是不可能的那是行不通的 所以當我看到船前的黑色黏液我就想「何不拿這個現成的東西...」我就把黏液刮下來然後跟酒精一起裝在一個小試管裡送去給基因學家我把黏液刮下送去阿伯丁我就說「可以試試這個」於是他們研究好幾個月因為我們在曼島有個會議我就不斷寄信問「你有抽空檢查我的黏液了嗎？」他就會敷衍回答「有啦，晚一點」後來他就著手去做了因為我們未曾見面所以如果沒有幫我看就很丟臉 結果他竟然在黏液中真的找到基因了於是就把基因放大拿去作實驗實驗結果發現這就是姥鯊的基因而且是從黏液中取得的於是他就非常興奮後來就有「賽門的鯊魚黏液」之稱我當時就想「我搞不好可以從這裡出發」我就想我們何不出去蒐集夠多黏液所以我們標了3500個衛星標我又投資了7.95元在這個上面-連價錢都還在上面-就在基爾拉什當地的五金行買了這個拖把柄甚至花更少的錢買一些烤箱清潔刷我就把清潔刷包在拖把柄的尾端就迫不及待地要找到機會標鯊魚 當時正要進入八月鯊魚出現的高峰通常在六、七月其他時間都很少看到八月就很難抓準鯊魚出沒的時間地點所以我們相當急迫一聽到有鯊魚出沒就匆忙趕到布拉斯克島找到那些鯊魚所以我們只不過是把拖把柄摩擦這些在船下游動的鯊魚這邊可以看到船底下有鯊魚在那邊游我們就成功取得黏液就是這個非常美妙的黑色鯊魚黏液在半小時內我們蒐集了五個樣本，五個不同鯊魚的樣本而且是利用賽門的鯊魚黏液樣本系統 （笑聲） （掌聲） 我在愛爾蘭研究鯨魚和海豚已有20年之久牠們算是比較戲劇化的種類各位大概看過座頭鯨的精彩鏡頭是我們一、兩個月前在韋克斯福德郡拍到的我們總是想在這世界上留名而我一直在擔心這些座頭鯨和海豚遭殺害不過有時候就是會有一些小東西自動送上門來你就只能乖乖接收了這可能會是我遺留給這世界的遺產吧賽門的鯊魚黏液 而我們今年籌得更多資金去蒐集更多樣本有個非常有用的東西我們使用高竿攝影-這是我的同事裘安拿著高竿攝影機-就可以從鯊魚下方觀察牠們雄姥鯊有鰭腳（生殖器官）是一個長在姥鯊背後的垂狀物這樣就可以輕易分辨姥鯊的性別在取得樣本前一旦先辨認出性別我們就可以告訴基因學家，這樣本的雌雄因為目前基因學家是無法從基因中辨認出雌雄這是非常令人驚訝的消息因為他們不知道要去找哪些引子能分辨出鯊魚的性別對立法禁止姥鯊及其他種類的鯊魚交易是非常重要的因為任何鯊魚的買賣都是違法的但市場上仍有鯊魚買賣行為 所以身為田野生物學家就是要和這些動物接觸並盡全力研究牠們牠們受季節影響出現時間很短所以就更要把握機會作研究這是非常美妙的事情我們可以提供這些樣本給基因學家等人這些學者可以從中受益無窮 所以就像我稍早所說的有時候機會會自動上門來，你就要把握機會我會把這個當作我的科學遺產不過也希望在我死前可以得到更戲劇化或更浪漫的東西在這之前，就謝謝各位記得多關注鯊魚 如果有興趣的話，我們也剛架了一個關於姥鯊的網站謝謝各位的聆聽 （掌聲）
