Talk	en	zh-tw
sonia_shah_3_reasons_we_still_haven_t_gotten_rid_of_malaria	"So over the long course of human history, the infectious disease that's killed more humans than any other is malaria. It's carried in the bites of infected mosquitos, and it's probably our oldest scourge. We may have had malaria since we evolved from the apes. And to this day, malaria takes a huge toll on our species. We've got 300 million cases a year and over half a million deaths. Now this really makes no sense. We've known how to cure malaria since the 1600s. That's when Jesuit missionaries in Peru discovered the bark of the cinchona tree, and inside that bark was quinine, still an effective cure for malaria to this day. So we've known how to cure malaria for centuries. We've known how to prevent malaria since 1897. That's when the British army surgeon Ronald Ross discovered that it was mosquitos that carried malaria, not bad air or miasmas, as was previously thought. So malaria should be a relatively simple disease to solve, and yet to this day, hundreds of thousands of people are going to die from the bite of a mosquito. Why is that? This is a question that's personally intrigued me for a long time. I grew up as the daughter of Indian immigrants visiting my cousins in India every summer, and because I had no immunity to the local malarias, I was made to sleep under this hot, sweaty mosquito net every night while my cousins, they were allowed to sleep out on the terrace and have this nice, cool night breeze wafting over them. And I really hated the mosquitos for that. But at the same time, I come from a Jain family, and Jainism is a religion that espouses a very extreme form of nonviolence. So Jains are not supposed to eat meat. We're not supposed to walk on grass, because you could, you know, inadvertently kill some insects when you walk on grass. We're certainly not supposed to swat mosquitos. So the fearsome power of this little insect was apparent to me from a very young age, and it's one reason why I spent five years as a journalist trying to understand, why has malaria been such a horrible scourge for all of us for so very long? And I think there's three main reasons why. Those three reasons add up to the fourth reason, which is probably the biggest reason of all. The first reason is certainly scientific. This little parasite that causes malaria, it's probably one of the most complex and wily pathogens known to humankind. It lives half its life inside the cold-blooded mosquito and half its life inside the warm-blooded human. These two environments are totally different, but not only that, they're both utterly hostile. So the insect is continually trying to fight off the parasite, and so is the human body continually trying to fight it off. This little creature survives under siege like that, but not only does it survive, it has thrived. It has spread. It has more ways to evade attack than we know. It's a shape-shifter, for one thing. Just as a caterpillar turns into a butterfly, the malaria parasite transforms itself like that seven times in its life cycle. And each of those life stages not only looks totally different from each other, they have totally different physiology. So say you came up with some great drug that worked against one stage of the parasite's life cycle. It might do nothing at all to any of the other stages. It can hide in our bodies, undetected, unbeknownst to us, for days, for weeks, for months, for years, in some cases even decades. So the parasite is a very big scientific challenge to tackle, but so is the mosquito that carries the parasite. Only about 12 species of mosquitos carry most of the world's malaria, and we know quite a bit about the kinds of watery habitats that they specialize in. So you might think, then, well, why don't we just avoid the places where the killer mosquitos live? Right? We could avoid the places where the killer grizzly bears live and we avoid the places where the killer crocodiles live. But say you live in the tropics and you walk outside your hut one day and you leave some footprints in the soft dirt around your home. Or say your cow does, or say your pig does, and then, say, it rains, and that footprint fills up with a little bit of water. That's it. You've created the perfect malarial mosquito habitat that's right outside your door. So it's not easy for us to extricate ourselves from these insects. We kind of create places that they love to live just by living our own lives. So there's a huge scientific challenge, but there's a huge economic challenge too. Malaria occurs in some of the poorest and most remote places on Earth, and there's a reason for that. If you're poor, you're more likely to get malaria. If you're poor, you're more likely to live in rudimentary housing on marginal land that's poorly drained. These are places where mosquitos breed. You're less likely to have door screens or window screens. You're less likely to have electricity and all the indoor activities that electricity makes possible, so you're outside more. You're getting bitten by mosquitos more. So poverty causes malaria, but what we also know now is that malaria itself causes poverty. For one thing, it strikes hardest during harvest season, so exactly when farmers need to be out in the fields collecting their crops, they're home sick with a fever. But it also predisposes people to death from all other causes. So this has happened historically. We've been able to take malaria out of a society. Everything else stays the same, so we still have bad food, bad water, bad sanitation, all the things that make people sick. But just if you take malaria out, deaths from everything else go down. And the economist Jeff Sachs has actually quantified what this means for a society. What it means is, if you have malaria in your society, your economic growth is depressed by 1.3 percent every year, year after year after year, just this one disease alone. So this poses a huge economic challenge, because say you do come up with your great drug or your great vaccine — how do you deliver it in a place where there's no roads, there's no infrastructure, there's no electricity for refrigeration to keep things cold, there's no clinics, there's no clinicians to deliver these things where they're needed? So there's a huge economic challenge in taming malaria. But along with the scientific challenge and the economic challenge, there's also a cultural challenge, and this is probably the part about malaria that people don't like to talk about. And it's the paradox that the people who have the most malaria in the world tend to care about it the least. This has been the finding of medical anthropologists again and again. They ask people in malarious parts of the world, ""What do you think about malaria?"" And they don't say, ""It's a killer disease. We're scared of it."" They say, ""Malaria is a normal problem of life."" And that was certainly my personal experience. When I told my relatives in India that I was writing a book about malaria, they kind of looked at me like I told them I was writing a book about warts or something. Like, why would you write about something so boring, so ordinary? You know? And it's simple risk perception, really. A child in Malawi, for example, she might have 12 episodes of malaria before the age of two, but if she survives, she'll continue to get malaria throughout her life, but she's much less likely to die of it. And so in her lived experience, malaria is something that comes and goes. And that's actually true for most of the world's malaria. Most of the world's malaria comes and goes on its own. It's just, there's so much malaria that this tiny fraction of cases that end in death add up to this big, huge number. So I think people in malarious parts of the world must think of malaria the way those of us who live in the temperate world think of cold and flu. Right? Cold and flu have a huge burden on our societies and on our own lives, but we don't really even take the most rudimentary precautions against it because we consider it normal to get cold and flu during cold and flu season. And so this poses a huge cultural challenge in taming malaria, because if people think it's normal to have malaria, then how do you get them to run to the doctor to get diagnosed, to pick up their prescription, to get it filled, to take the drugs, to put on the repellents, to tuck in the bed nets? This is a huge cultural challenge in taming this disease. So take all that together. We've got a disease. It's scientifically complicated, it's economically challenging to deal with, and it's one for which the people who stand to benefit the most care about it the least. And that adds up to the biggest problem of all, which, of course, is the political problem. How do you get a political leader to do anything about a problem like this? And the answer is, historically, you don't. Most malarious societies throughout history have simply lived with the disease. So the main attacks on malaria have come from outside of malarious societies, from people who aren't constrained by these rather paralyzing politics. But this, I think, introduces a whole host of other kinds of difficulties. The first concerted attack against malaria started in the 1950s. It was the brainchild of the U.S. State Department. And this effort well understood the economic challenge. They knew they had to focus on cheap, easy-to-use tools, and they focused on DDT. They understood the cultural challenge. In fact, their rather patronizing view was that people at risk of malaria shouldn't be asked to do anything at all. Everything should be done to them and for them. But they greatly underestimated the scientific challenge. They had so much faith in their tools that they stopped doing malaria research. And so when those tools started to fail, and public opinion started to turn against those tools, they had no scientific expertise to figure out what to do. The whole campaign crashed, malaria resurged back, but now it was even worse than before because it was corralled into the hardest-to-reach places in the most difficult-to-control forms. One WHO official at the time actually called that whole campaign ""one of the greatest mistakes ever made in public health."" The latest effort to tame malaria started in the late 1990s. It's similarly directed and financed primarily from outside of malarious societies. Now this effort well understands the scientific challenge. They are doing tons of malaria research. And they understand the economic challenge too. They're focusing on very cheap, very easy-to-use tools. But now, I think, the dilemma is the cultural challenge. The centerpiece of the current effort is the bed net. It's treated with insecticides. This thing has been distributed across the malarious world by the millions. And when you think about the bed net, it's sort of a surgical intervention. You know, it doesn't really have any value to a family with malaria except that it helps prevent malaria. And yet we're asking people to use these nets every night. They have to sleep under them every night. That's the only way they are effective. And they have to do that even if the net blocks the breeze, even if they might have to get up in the middle of the night and relieve themselves, even if they might have to move all their furnishings to put this thing up, even if, you know, they might live in a round hut in which it's difficult to string up a square net. Now that's no big deal if you're fighting a killer disease. I mean, these are minor inconveniences. But that's not how people with malaria think of malaria. So for them, the calculus must be quite different. Imagine, for example, if a bunch of well-meaning Kenyans came up to those of us in the temperate world and said, ""You know, you people have a lot of cold and flu. We've designed this great, easy-to-use, cheap tool, we're going to give it to you for free. It's called a face mask, and all you need to do is wear it every day during cold and flu season when you go to school and when you go to work."" Would we do that? And I wonder if that's how people in the malarious world thought of those nets when they first received them? Indeed, we know from studies that only 20 percent of the bed nets that were first distributed were actually used. And even that's probably an overestimate, because the same people who distributed the nets went back and asked the recipients, ""Oh, did you use that net I gave you?"" Which is like your Aunt Jane asking you, ""Oh, did you use that vase I gave you for Christmas?"" So it's probably an overestimate. But that's not an insurmountable problem. We can do more education, we can try to convince these people to use the nets. And that's what happening now. We're throwing a lot more time and money into workshops and trainings and musicals and plays and school meetings, all these things to convince people to use the nets we gave you. And that might work. But it takes time. It takes money. It takes resources. It takes infrastructure. It takes all the things that that cheap, easy-to-use bed net was not supposed to be. So it's difficult to attack malaria from inside malarious societies, but it's equally tricky when we try to attack it from outside of those societies. We end up imposing our own priorities on the people of the malarious world. That's exactly what we did in the 1950s, and that effort backfired. I would argue today, when we are distributing tools that we've designed and that don't necessarily make sense in people's lives, we run the risk of making the same mistake again. That's not to say that malaria is unconquerable, because I think it is, but what if we attacked this disease according to the priorities of the people who lived with it? Take the example of England and the United States. We had malaria in those countries for hundreds of years, and we got rid of it completely, not because we attacked malaria. We didn't. We attacked bad roads and bad houses and bad drainage and lack of electricity and rural poverty. We attacked the malarious way of life, and by doing that, we slowly built malaria out. Now attacking the malarious way of life, this is something — these are things people care about today. And attacking the malarious way of life, it's not fast, it's not cheap, it's not easy, but I think it's the only lasting way forward. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	在人類悠久的歷史文化中致死率最高的傳染病是瘧疾它是藉由病媒蚊叮咬來傳染瘧疾可以算是人類史上最早發生的大浩劫從人類還在人猿的發展階段就已經有瘧疾至今有非常多人因罹患瘧疾而死亡平均每年都有3億人罹患瘧疾超過50萬人死亡 這真的令人匪夷所思我們已經知道要如何治療瘧疾早在16世紀的時候就知道當時基督教傳道士在秘魯發現金雞納樹的樹皮含有奎寧的成份它至今仍是一種能有效治療瘧疾的藥物所以好幾世紀前我們就已經知道要如何治癒瘧疾自1897年我們就知道要如何預防瘧疾的發生當時英國陸軍外科醫生Ronald Ross發現瘧疾的傳播媒介就是蚊子而不是我們以前一直認為的髒空氣或瘴氣所以瘧疾應該是一個很容易解決的疾病才對然而至今仍有數十萬人仍因被帶有瘧疾的病媒蚊叮咬而感染瘧疾死亡為什麼會這樣呢? 這個問題讓我想了很久我是印度裔移民家庭出身每到印度進入夏季時我都會回去拜訪我的堂兄弟姊妹因為我對當地瘧疾沒有免疫力所以每晚我都必須在熱悶的蚊帳中睡覺而我的堂兄弟姊妹們則能直接睡在大陽台上吹著清爽舒服的晚風就因為這樣我真的很討厭蚊子同時我是來自於一個耆那教家庭耆那教極力主張無暴力主義所以耆那教徒不能吃肉我們也不能走在草地上因為你可能會在你走路的時候不小心踩死一些昆蟲當然我們也不能打蚊子所以我很怕蚊子這種小蟲從我很小的時候開始而這也是為什麼我花了五年當記者想試著了解為什麼瘧疾對我們所有人造成一個非常長期的恐怖浩劫我認為其中有三種主因這三個原因湊在一起可以變成第四個原因那可能是所有中最大也最重要的原因 第一個是純科學化的理由這種引起瘧疾的寄生蟲可能是已知最複雜最難搞的病原體瘧原蟲的生命中有一半活在冷血動物-蚊子體內另一半則活在溫血動物-人類體內這是兩種完全不同的生存環境不只如此 病原蟲對兩者環境都有害所以當蚊子會不斷抵抗寄生蟲而人類身體也會不斷抵抗這種小生物在這種困境下生存下來了它不只是生存下來 還蓬勃發展它會散播開來 它有許多方式躲避攻擊 比我們知道的還多另一方面這是一種變態就像毛毛蟲變成蝴蝶一樣瘧原蟲會像那樣在牠們一生中 經歷七次變態的過程而每個生長階段都完全不同有完全不同的生理結構你說你有想到某種不錯的藥可以用來消滅處於某生長階段的病原蟲那這藥可能就對處於其他階段的病原蟲無效它能夠躲在我們的身體裡 無法檢查到並潛伏數天 數周數月數年也曾有潛伏數十年的案例 所以要處理瘧原蟲是一項非常艱鉅的科學挑戰攜帶瘧原蟲的病媒蚊也很難處理大約只有12種蚊子帶有全世界絕大部分的瘧原蟲我們相當多種蚊子是屬於水棲性所以你可能會想說 為什麼我們不避開那些可怕的病媒蚊棲息的地方 對吧?我們可以避開恐怖的棕熊棲息地我們可以遠離嚇人的鱷魚棲息地但當你居住在屬於熱帶氣候的地區時有一天你走出棚屋踩在軟泥土中留下你的腳印在你家附近或是你的牛或豬走動留下的腳印然後 下雨了而這些由生物走動而形成的小水坑中積滿雨水就這樣! 你創造出完美的瘧蚊孳生地 就在你家門口所以要擺脫這些蚊子還沒那麼容易我們可能創造出瘧蚊喜歡棲息的地方藉由我們日常的生活方式與習慣 所以這是一項艱鉅的科學挑戰同時 也是一像龐大的經濟挑戰瘧疾通常發生在一些極度貧窮的地方與地球最偏遠的地方這是有原因的如果你很窮 你得瘧疾的機率較高如果你很窮 你很可能住在邊際土地上方的簡陋房屋 邊際土地又排水不良蚊子就是在那種環境孳生你不太可能會有門窗來遮蔽也不太可能會有電而所有室內活動都需要電所以你通常都待在室外所以你也較常遭到蚊子叮咬 所以貧窮導致瘧疾的發生不過現在我們知道瘧疾本身也會帶來貧窮另一方面 在豐收季節裡影響最嚴重當農夫都需要去田裡採收他們的作物時 卻因發燒 只能再家休養瘧疾也會容易置人於死因為其他各種原因所以瘧疾已經成為歷史現今我們已經有能力將瘧疾趕出文明社會其他還是一樣我們的食物不好 水源不乾淨 衛生環境髒亂這些都會讓人生病但如果單單只將瘧疾根除各種原因所造成的死亡率都會下降實際上 經濟學家傑夫薩克斯已經量化這事對社會的影響他的意思是 如果你的國家有瘧疾發生你的經濟成長率將會每年下降1.3%年復一年 就只是因為瘧疾的關係因此 這造成了巨大的經濟挑戰因為 就算你有想到很有療效的藥物或不錯的疫苗 你要怎麼運送?在一個沒有道路沒有基礎建設沒有電供應冰箱保冷也沒有診所 沒有醫生又要如何運送這些必要物資呢?所以抑制瘧疾是一個艱鉅的經濟挑戰 除了是科技上的難題與經濟上的挑戰瘧疾也是一種文化的困境這也可能是部分原因所以大家不想討論它這是一種非常矛盾的情況那些住在全世界罹患瘧疾率最高地區的人們卻往往最不關心這件事情醫療人類學家一再發現這種情況他們訪問居住在瘧疾疫區的人民關於瘧疾 你們有什麼想法?他們不會說 它是一個致命的疾病 我們很害怕他們反而會說 瘧疾只是一個生活上常見的問題這也是我的個人經驗當我告訴我在印度的親戚我正撰寫一本有關瘧疾的書他們看著我的眼神就好像我只是告訴他們我在寫一本關於疣或甚麼的書就好像 你為什麼要寫這麼無聊的書?這麼普通的書?這其實是個顯而易見的危機預兆例如 有一位在馬拉維的小孩在2歲之前 她可能得過12次瘧疾但如果她活下來她將終其一生繼續與瘧疾對抗不過她再次罹患瘧疾致死的機率將會大幅減少所以在她生活的經驗中瘧疾只不過是會發病 再過一段時間又好了事實上大部分的瘧疾也確實如此世界上多數的瘧疾都是會發病 再過一段時間又好了就是這樣而已 有許多種瘧疾只有發生極少數的死亡案例但這些案例加起來也是一個龐大的數字所以我認為生活在瘧疾地區的人們必須改變看待瘧疾的方式就像我們生活在溫帶地區看待感冒和流行感冒一樣 對吧?感冒與流感是一大重擔 在我們的社會和生活中但是我們不需要真的去做基礎的預防措施來防範因為我們覺得感冒和得到流行性感冒 是件很正常的事在流行性感冒的高峰期 所以 抑制瘧疾造成一種巨大的文化挑戰因為如果人們認為感染瘧疾是件正常的事那麼你要如何叫他們去看醫生去接受診斷 拿處方籤把處方籤拿去藥局 拿藥吃用驅蚊用品 躺到蚊帳裡去呢?抑制這種疾病是一個巨大的文化挑戰 所以把這些因素都湊在一起我們可以說 瘧疾在科學上很複雜對經濟方面有挑戰性 不好處理因此就有人站出來盡力幫助這些最弱勢卻又莫不關心的人所有一切加起來 就形成最大的問題當然就是政治問題你要叫政治領袖要怎樣去處理這種問題?從過去的經驗來看 答案是沒辦法歷史上 大部分瘧疾猖獗的國家就是放任這種疾病發生在人民的生活中所以主要會去處理瘧疾問題的力量是來自於瘧疾疫區之外來自於那些不會受到那些欲癱瘓政治之人影響的人但是 我認為這會延伸出各種問題 第一次針對瘧疾的協同防治行動是從1950年代開始是由美國國務院所提出的此行動也恰好應映經濟的困境他們知道他們必須使用便宜 容易使用的工具著重使用DDT（一種殺蟲劑）他們知道文化所面臨的挑戰事實上當時的觀點非常主觀 認為易感染瘧疾的人們 什麼事都不能做一切只要做給他們使用 幫他們做就好但他們太低估科學所面臨的挑戰他們對他們使用的工具太過自信導致他們不再研究瘧疾所以當這些工具開始失效了公眾輿論開始批評那些工具他們就無法以專業知識判定下一步該怎麼走整個行動失敗 瘧疾又再次爆發甚至比以前的情況更糟它已經變得更加嚴重原先就是非常難控制的狀況當時有一位世界衛生組織的官員將那整個行動稱作公共衛生領域所犯的最大錯誤之一 最近抑制瘧疾的行動是從1990 年代後期開始同樣主要指揮行動與金援資助的國家都是來自於非疫區國家這行動也恰好因應科學挑戰他們做了非常多有關瘧疾研究她們懂得經濟面臨的挑戰所以主要著重在獲取非常便宜 容易使用的工具但現在 我認為文化挑戰是主要的困境目前著重在盡量獲取蚊帳這種蚊帳是用殺蟲劑處理過這種蚊帳已經在世界各地的瘧疾疫區發放目前已經發給數百萬人當你想到蚊帳的時候就像某種手術干預你知道 這沒有任何用處若全家都罹患瘧疾 除非蚊帳真的對防範瘧疾有幫助我們要求人們睡覺都要掛蚊帳必須都睡在蚊帳當中這是唯一有效的方法他們必須這樣做即使蚊帳擋住窗外吹來的微風即使他們有可能在半夜起床上廁所即使他們可能需要更動他們所有傢俱的位置來把蚊帳掛起來，即使 他們可能住在一個圓形的棚屋那種房子很難掛起一個方形的蚊帳你要對抗一種致命疾病 這沒什麼大不了的這些麻煩的瑣事真是微不足道但是 罹患瘧疾的人可不這樣認為對他們來說 有著完全不同的觀念與想法 想像一下 例如 如果有一群好心的肯尼亞人對這些在溫帶地區生活的人們說你們這裏有很多感冒和染上流感的人我們設計出這個又好用 又便利 又廉價的工具我們免費送給你們這東西叫口罩你們要做的就是在感冒和流感盛行的季節 天天帶著它去學校也帶 去上班也帶我們會這樣做嗎？ 我在想 瘧疾興盛地區的人們對這些蚊帳的想法會是什麼當他們第一次收到這些東西的時候?確實，從研究中我們可得知第一次分配出去的蚊帳只有20%有實際使用過那數字甚至都可能被高估了因為發放蚊帳的那批人回去訪問那些受助人你有使用我給你的蚊帳了嗎?這就像Aunt Jane 問你你用我聖誕節送你的花瓶了嗎?所以這數字可能是被高估了 但這不是一個無法克服的問題。我們可以辦更多教育活動我們可以試著說服他們使用蚊帳我們現在就是這麼做的我們花更多時間和金錢投注在工作坊 訓練計畫 歌舞劇 演戲和學校會議上這些東西都是為了要說服人們使用我們送的蚊帳這可能有用但需要時間 需要資金需要資源 也需要基礎設施這需要很多因素的配合才能做到但目的只是為了這些便宜好用的蚊帳 所以要從瘧疾疫區內部去改善瘧疾是一件很難的事這也是一很難處理的事 當我們試著改善瘧疾從瘧疾疫區外部我們終究還是將我們的優先權強加於居住在瘧疾疫區的人們身上這正是我們在1950年代所做的然而卻得到反效果我認為今天我們將我們設計的工具分送給他們而那樣工具不一定對他們的生活有幫助的時候我們冒著風險 再次犯下相同的錯誤 這並不表示無法將瘧疾根除因為我覺得我們可以根除瘧疾但要是我們針對這項疾病做處理並優先考慮那些罹患瘧疾的人們又會怎樣？舉英國和美國為例在這兩個國家中 瘧疾存在有數百年之久但我們已經完全擺脫它了不是因為我們針對瘧疾去 我們沒有我們修繕破舊的道路 鄙陋的住房改善不良的排水系統 電力不足與農村貧窮等問題我們改變在生活中可能會引起瘧疾的因素透過這種方式 我們逐漸將瘧疾趕出去改變在生活中可能會引起瘧疾的因素這才是今天人們關心的改變在生活中可能會引起瘧疾的因素無法很快看見成效 價格不便宜​​ 也不是容易的事但我認為這是唯一能夠持續下去的辦法 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
