Talk	en	zh-tw
stephen_cave_the_4_stories_we_tell_ourselves_about_death	"I have a question: Who here remembers when they first realized they were going to die? I do. I was a young boy, and my grandfather had just died, and I remember a few days later lying in bed at night trying to make sense of what had happened. What did it mean that he was dead? Where had he gone? It was like a hole in reality had opened up and swallowed him. But then the really shocking question occurred to me: If he could die, could it happen to me too? Could that hole in reality open up and swallow me? Would it open up beneath my bed and swallow me as I slept? Well, at some point, all children become aware of death. It can happen in different ways, of course, and usually comes in stages. Our idea of death develops as we grow older. And if you reach back into the dark corners of your memory, you might remember something like what I felt when my grandfather died and when I realized it could happen to me too, that sense that behind all of this the void is waiting. And this development in childhood reflects the development of our species. Just as there was a point in your development as a child when your sense of self and of time became sophisticated enough for you to realize you were mortal, so at some point in the evolution of our species, some early human's sense of self and of time became sophisticated enough for them to become the first human to realize, ""I'm going to die."" This is, if you like, our curse. It's the price we pay for being so damn clever. We have to live in the knowledge that the worst thing that can possibly happen one day surely will, the end of all our projects, our hopes, our dreams, of our individual world. We each live in the shadow of a personal apocalypse. And that's frightening. It's terrifying. And so we look for a way out. And in my case, as I was about five years old, this meant asking my mum. Now when I first started asking what happens when we die, the grown-ups around me at the time answered with a typical English mix of awkwardness and half-hearted Christianity, and the phrase I heard most often was that granddad was now ""up there looking down on us,"" and if I should die too, which wouldn't happen of course, then I too would go up there, which made death sound a lot like an existential elevator. Now this didn't sound very plausible. I used to watch a children's news program at the time, and this was the era of space exploration. There were always rockets going up into the sky, up into space, going up there. But none of the astronauts when they came back ever mentioned having met my granddad or any other dead people. But I was scared, and the idea of taking the existential elevator to see my granddad sounded a lot better than being swallowed by the void while I slept. And so I believed it anyway, even though it didn't make much sense. And this thought process that I went through as a child, and have been through many times since, including as a grown-up, is a product of what psychologists call a bias. Now a bias is a way in which we systematically get things wrong, ways in which we miscalculate, misjudge, distort reality, or see what we want to see, and the bias I'm talking about works like this: Confront someone with the fact that they are going to die and they will believe just about any story that tells them it isn't true and they can, instead, live forever, even if it means taking the existential elevator. Now we can see this as the biggest bias of all. It has been demonstrated in over 400 empirical studies. Now these studies are ingenious, but they're simple. They work like this. You take two groups of people who are similar in all relevant respects, and you remind one group that they're going to die but not the other, then you compare their behavior. So you're observing how it biases behavior when people become aware of their mortality. And every time, you get the same result: People who are made aware of their mortality are more willing to believe stories that tell them they can escape death and live forever. So here's an example: One recent study took two groups of agnostics, that is people who are undecided in their religious beliefs. Now, one group was asked to think about being dead. The other group was asked to think about being lonely. They were then asked again about their religious beliefs. Those who had been asked to think about being dead were afterwards twice as likely to express faith in God and Jesus. Twice as likely. Even though the before they were all equally agnostic. But put the fear of death in them, and they run to Jesus. Now, this shows that reminding people of death biases them to believe, regardless of the evidence, and it works not just for religion, but for any kind of belief system that promises immortality in some form, whether it's becoming famous or having children or even nationalism, which promises you can live on as part of a greater whole. This is a bias that has shaped the course of human history. Now, the theory behind this bias in the over 400 studies is called terror management theory, and the idea is simple. It's just this. We develop our worldviews, that is, the stories we tell ourselves about the world and our place in it, in order to help us manage the terror of death. And these immortality stories have thousands of different manifestations, but I believe that behind the apparent diversity there are actually just four basic forms that these immortality stories can take. And we can see them repeating themselves throughout history, just with slight variations to reflect the vocabulary of the day. Now I'm going to briefly introduce these four basic forms of immortality story, and I want to try to give you some sense of the way in which they're retold by each culture or generation using the vocabulary of their day. Now, the first story is the simplest. We want to avoid death, and the dream of doing that in this body in this world forever is the first and simplest kind of immortality story, and it might at first sound implausible, but actually, almost every culture in human history has had some myth or legend of an elixir of life or a fountain of youth or something that promises to keep us going forever. Ancient Egypt had such myths, ancient Babylon, ancient India. Throughout European history, we find them in the work of the alchemists, and of course we still believe this today, only we tell this story using the vocabulary of science. So 100 years ago, hormones had just been discovered, and people hoped that hormone treatments were going to cure aging and disease, and now instead we set our hopes on stem cells, genetic engineering, and nanotechnology. But the idea that science can cure death is just one more chapter in the story of the magical elixir, a story that is as old as civilization. But betting everything on the idea of finding the elixir and staying alive forever is a risky strategy. When we look back through history at all those who have sought an elixir in the past, the one thing they now have in common is that they're all dead. So we need a backup plan, and exactly this kind of plan B is what the second kind of immortality story offers, and that's resurrection. And it stays with the idea that I am this body, I am this physical organism. It accepts that I'm going to have to die but says, despite that, I can rise up and I can live again. In other words, I can do what Jesus did. Jesus died, he was three days in the [tomb], and then he rose up and lived again. And the idea that we can all be resurrected to live again is orthodox believe, not just for Christians but also Jews and Muslims. But our desire to believe this story is so deeply embedded that we are reinventing it again for the scientific age, for example, with the idea of cryonics. That's the idea that when you die, you can have yourself frozen, and then, at some point when technology has advanced enough, you can be thawed out and repaired and revived and so resurrected. And so some people believe an omnipotent god will resurrect them to live again, and other people believe an  omnipotent scientist will do it. But for others, the whole idea of resurrection, of climbing out of the grave, it's just too much like a bad zombie movie. They find the body too messy, too unreliable to guarantee eternal life, and so they set their hopes on the third, more spiritual immortality story, the idea that we can leave our body behind and live on as a soul. Now, the majority of people on Earth believe they have a soul, and the idea is central to many religions. But even though, in its current form, in its traditional form, the idea of the soul is still hugely popular, nonetheless we are again reinventing it for the digital age, for example with the idea that you can leave your body behind by uploading your mind, your essence, the real you, onto a computer, and so live on as an avatar in the ether. But of course there are skeptics who say if we look at the evidence of science, particularly neuroscience, it suggests that your mind, your essence, the real you, is very much dependent on a particular part of your body, that is, your brain. And such skeptics can find comfort in the fourth kind of immortality story, and that is legacy, the idea that you can live on through the echo you leave in the world, like the great Greek warrior Achilles, who sacrificed his life fighting at Troy so that he might win immortal fame. And the pursuit of fame is as widespread and popular now as it ever was, and in our digital age, it's even easier to achieve. You don't need to be a great warrior like Achilles or a great king or hero. All you need is an Internet connection and a funny cat. (Laughter) But some people prefer to leave a more tangible, biological legacy — children, for example. Or they like, they hope, to live on as part of some greater whole, a nation or a family or a tribe, their gene pool. But again, there are skeptics who doubt whether legacy really is immortality. Woody Allen, for example, who said, ""I don't want to live on in the hearts of my countrymen. I want to live on in my apartment."" So those are the four basic kinds of immortality stories, and I've tried to give just some sense of how they're retold by each generation with just slight variations to fit the fashions of the day. And the fact that they recur in this way, in such a similar form but in such different belief systems, suggests, I think, that we should be skeptical of the truth of any particular version of these stories. The fact that some people believe an omnipotent god will resurrect them to live again and others believe an omnipotent scientist will do it suggests that neither are really believing this on the strength of the evidence. Rather, we believe these stories because we are biased to believe them, and we are biased to believe them because we are so afraid of death. So the question is, are we doomed to lead the one life we have in a way that is shaped by fear and denial, or can we overcome this bias? Well the Greek philosopher Epicurus thought we could. He argued that the fear of death is natural, but it is not rational. ""Death,"" he said, ""is nothing to us, because when we are here, death is not, and when death is here, we are gone."" Now this is often quoted, but it's difficult to really grasp, to really internalize, because exactly this idea of being gone is so difficult to imagine. So 2,000 years later, another philosopher, Ludwig Wittgenstein, put it like this: ""Death is not an event in life: We do not live to experience death. And so,"" he added, ""in this sense, life has no end."" So it was natural for me as a child to fear being swallowed by the void, but it wasn't rational, because being swallowed by the void is not something that any of us will ever live to experience. Now, overcoming this bias is not easy because the fear of death is so deeply embedded in us, yet when we see that the fear itself is not rational, and when we bring out into the open the ways in which it can unconsciously bias us, then we can at least start to try to minimize the influence it has on our lives. Now, I find it helps to see life as being like a book: Just as a book is bounded by its covers, by beginning and end, so our lives are bounded by birth and death, and even though a book is limited by beginning and end, it can encompass distant landscapes, exotic figures, fantastic adventures. And even though a book is limited by beginning and end, the characters within it know no horizons. They only know the moments that make up their story, even when the book is closed. And so the characters of a book are not afraid of reaching the last page. Long John Silver is not afraid of you finishing your copy of ""Treasure Island."" And so it should be with us. Imagine the book of your life, its covers, its beginning and end, and your birth and your death. You can only know the moments in between, the moments that make up your life. It makes no sense for you to fear what is outside of those covers, whether before your birth or after your death. And you needn't worry how long the book is, or whether it's a comic strip or an epic. The only thing that matters is that you make it a good story. Thank you. (Applause)"	我有一個提問：這裡有誰記得是什麼時候第一次意識到自己會死去？ 我記得那時我還是小男孩我祖父剛剛過世我記得在那幾天後的晚上，我躺在床上試著去理解發生了什麼事情他過世了是什麼意思？他去了哪裡？這有點像在現實中有一個洞打開後把他吞下去但對我來說，震驚的事情是：如果他會死去，那也會發生在我身上嗎？那個洞也會打開把我吞下去嗎？它會不會在我的床底下打開在我睡覺時把我吞了？某方面而言，所有的小孩都注意到死亡當然，死亡會以不同的方式發生而且通常是很引人注目的我們對死亡的認識隨著長大而加深如果你能回到你記憶裡那個黑暗的角落或許你會有跟我那時一樣的感受當我祖父過世而我認知到這也可能發生在我身上在這一切背後的感受只能空等待 在孩童時期這樣的發展反應了我們人類的發展就像是在你生命中的某一時刻還是小孩的你對自我和時間的認知開始變得複雜你理解自己終將一死所以在人類演化的某一時刻早期的某些人對自我和時間的認知開始變得複雜然後成為第一批知道「我將會死去」的人們如果你能接受，這是我們的咒詛這是我們過於聰明的代價我們必須活在知道最壞的事將會發生的陰影下這一天一定會來到終結我們所有的計畫我們的希望、夢想和個人世界我們每個人活在自個兒的末日陰影下 這很恐怖嚇人所以我們試圖找個出路以我為例，當我大約五歲時我是去問我媽當我開始詢問我們死後會怎樣在我周遭的成人回答我很典型、尷尬且無心的基督教語句我最常聽到的是祖父現在「在天上看著我們」而且如果我也死去，當然不會是現在我也會到天上去這讓死亡看起來很像是一座可能存在的電梯現在這聽起來不再是有可能的那時候我通常會觀看兒童新聞節目那時是一個太空探索的時代節目總是關於火箭升空飛上高高的太空中但沒有任何回來的太空人提及見到我去世的祖父或是其他死去的人但當時我很害怕而搭乘那可能存在的電梯去見我的祖父比起在睡夢中被虛空吞噬是容易接受的多所以我就相信了縱使這聽起來很不合理 這樣的思考模式讓我渡過童年從那之後發生過很多次長大之後也是這被心理學家稱作是偏誤 (bias)偏誤是我們有系統地把事情搞錯估算錯誤、判斷錯誤扭曲現實，或是只看到想看到的而我要說的偏誤是像這樣的：使他人去正視他們即將會死去的事實他們會相信任何故事告訴他們這不是真的而且他們可以永遠活著就算是搭乘那個可能存在的電梯我們可以將這個視為最大的偏誤這經過四百個經驗研究得到證實這些研究設計得很巧妙，但相當簡單像這樣你找了兩組人在各個面向上都很相似你提醒其中一組人他們即將死去但另一組沒有，然後你比較他們的行為你觀察到，當人們意識到他們終究會死去時這個認知如何使他們的行為產生偏誤而且每次試驗你都得到相同的結果被提醒終將會死去的那組人比較願意去相信他們有辦法逃脫死亡並且得到永生的故事這裡有一個例子一項研究找來兩組不可知論者這些人都沒有特定的宗教傾向其中一組被要求思考死亡這件事另一組被要求思考孤獨他們再度被問及他們的宗教信仰被要求思考死亡的那組人之後有兩倍的可能性用上帝和耶穌來描敘他們的信仰兩倍的可能性即使在這之前他們同樣是不可知論者但把對死亡的恐懼放在眼前他們會向耶穌靠攏 這顯示向人們提醒死亡會讓他們忽視證據，而在所相信的事物上偏誤而這不僅僅影響到宗教而是任何跟信仰有關任何能提供永生形式的機制無論是變有名或是生小孩或甚至是民族主義保證你能成為全體的一部分活下去這樣的偏誤塑造了人類的歷史 在這偏誤背後超過四百個研究稱之為「恐懼管理理論」這個理論很簡單我們發展出我們的世界觀告訴自己一個關於世界和我們所在地方的故事為的是要讓我們可以處理對死亡的恐懼這些永生的故事有著上千種的形式但我相信在這些多樣化的面貌下這些永生故事其實只有四種基本樣式在歷史中不斷地循環只有小小的差異反應當時的語言我來簡單介紹永生故事中的這四個基本樣式我也希望讓各位知道它們是如何在各個文化和世代中使用當時的語言被流傳著 第一個故事是最簡單的我們想要避免死亡夢想著這身軀可以永久留存在這世上這是第一個也是最簡單的永生故事這聽起來有點難以置信但事實上，人類史上幾乎所有的文化都有神話或傳說是關於不老藥或是青春泉水或是某種可以讓我們一直活下去的東西古埃及有這樣的神話古巴比倫、古印度綜觀歐洲史，可以在鍊金術中發現它現在我們依舊相信它只是我們用科學的語言訴說它約一百年前荷爾蒙被發現了人們冀望荷爾蒙可以治療老化和疾病現在我們則是寄望於幹細胞遺傳工程和奈米科技但能對抗死亡的科學也僅只是跟文明一樣古老的另一則不老藥故事但把一切都賭在發現不老藥和保持永生上面風險太大當我們回頭看歷史那些尋找不老藥的人都有個共通點就是他們都過世了 所以我們需要一個備案也就是第二類的永生故事那就是復活復活的概念是我是一個肉身是一個有機體接受我是會死去的事實但不論這些我會再次活過來換句話說，我可以跟耶穌一樣耶穌死後，有三天在墓穴中然後他就復活了能夠復活的這個概念是很傳統的教義，不單是基督教也是猶太教和回教的我們相信這個故事的渴望如此深植在我們的內心以致於在科學時代我們再次創造它例如人體冷凍當你死亡時你可以把自己冷凍起來等到某天科技足夠先進你可以讓自己解凍、修復、甦醒然後復活有些人相信有一位全能的神將會使他們再次活過來而有些人則是相信全能的科學能讓他們復活 但對某些人來說，復活這件事從墳墓中爬出來太像是可怕的僵屍電影他們覺得身軀太髒亂且不可靠無法承受永恆的生命所以他們有第三種類型的故事更加靈性不死的故事就是我們會離開我們的身體而靈魂會永遠常存地球上絕大部分的人都相信人有靈魂這個概念是許多宗教的核心但不管是現在的型態或是傳統的型態靈魂的概念仍然非常受歡迎我們在當今數位時代依舊再次創造它例如你可以離開你的身體透過將你的心智、本質、真正的你上傳到電腦中以化身存活在太空裡 當然，有人會懷疑說如果我們檢視科學的證據特別是神經學提及你的心智你的本質，真正的你是非常仰賴你身體的某個部分那就是你的腦這樣的懷疑者能從第四種類的的永生故事中得到安慰那就是遺留下的事物你可以常存在世透過你留在世界上的事物像是希臘戰士阿基里斯他犧牲生命對抗特洛依使他贏得永遠的名聲追求這樣的名聲從古至今都一樣流行普遍在當今的數位時代這是更容易辦到的你不需要像阿基里斯一樣是個戰士或是一位國王，或英雄你只需要一條網路線和一隻有趣的貓（笑聲）但有些人還是會想要留下更有形、有生命的事物，像是小孩或是他們想要、希望可以成為全體的一部分活下去國家、家庭或聚落它們的基因庫但還是有人會懷疑這樣遺留下的事物是否真的能永流傳像是伍迪艾倫說過（譯註：美國導演、演員、劇作家）：「我不想活在我同胞的心裡我想活在我的公寓裡。」 這些是四種基本的永生故事我試著說明這些故事如何一代一代的流傳著而僅有些許的變化以迎合各時代的思潮這些故事不停地重覆傳頌在不同的信仰中有著如此相似的形式我覺得我們應該要對這些故事有所質疑有些人相信一位全能的神會使他們復活而其他人相信萬能的科學會使他們復活這些都說明人們不是因著證據相信這些故事我們相信這些故事只因為我們的偏誤而相信故事我們會偏誤而相信故事是因為我們對死亡的恐懼 問題是我們是否讓我們的人生注定被恐懼和抗拒支配還是我們可以克服這個偏誤？希臘哲學家伊比鳩魯認為我們可以他主張對死亡的恐懼是天生的但並非理性的他說：「死亡對我們來說不算什麼，因為當我們在這裡，死亡就不在；而當死亡在這裡，我們就不在了。」這句話常被引用但很難領會、真正內化它因為所謂的「不在這裡」是很難想像的所以兩千年之後，另一個哲學家路德維希．維根斯坦這樣說：「死亡不是生命中的一件事，我們並非活著來體驗死亡。所以，從這個觀點來看，生命是沒有終點的。」 當我還小的時候很自然地對於被虛無吞沒產生恐懼但這並非理性的因為被虛無吞沒並不是一件任何人會活著經歷的事情 克服偏誤不是一件容易的事因為對死亡的恐懼深植在我們之中但當我們了解這恐懼是不理性的當我們可以在檯面上提出來這恐懼會無意識地讓我們偏誤那至少我們可以開始嘗試去減小它在我們生命中的影響 我發覺把生命當作是一本書會有幫助：就像書受限於有開頭和結尾被書皮包覆著就像我們的生命被出生和死亡包覆著即使書本受限於要有開頭和結尾但它可以包含遠處的風光異國風情的人物與奇幻的冒險即使書本必須有開頭和結尾其中的人物不知道有邊界只知道當下要活出他們的故事即使書本被闔起來之後也一樣所以書本中的人物不會害怕走到最後一頁史約翰不會害怕你讀完《金銀島》所以我們也當如此想像一本關於你生命的書它的封面、開頭和結尾以及你的出生和死亡而你只知道這之間能活出你生命的時刻這不該讓你對書皮之外的事恐懼不管是你出生之前或是死亡之後你不必擔心書本有多厚它是連環漫畫或是長篇史詩唯一重要的事情是你有一個好的故事 謝謝 （掌聲）
