Talk	en	zh-tw
stephanie_busari_how_fake_news_does_real_harm	"I want to tell you a story about a girl. But I can't tell you her real name. So let's just call her Hadiza. Hadiza is 20. She's shy, but she has a beautiful smile that lights up her face. But she's in constant pain. And she will likely be on medication for the rest of her life. Do you want to know why? Hadiza is a Chibok girl, and on April 14, 2014, she was kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists. She managed to escape, though, by jumping off the truck that was carrying the girls. But when she landed, she broke both her legs, and she had to crawl on her tummy to hide in the bushes. She told me she was terrified that Boko Haram would come back for her. She was one of 57 girls who would escape by jumping off trucks that day. This story, quite rightly, caused ripples around the world. People like Michelle Obama, Malala and others lent their voices in protest, and at about the same time — I was living in London at the time — I was sent from London to Abuja to cover the World Economic Forum that Nigeria was hosting for the first time. But when we arrived, it was clear that there was only one story in town. We put the government under pressure. We asked tough questions about what they were doing to bring these girls back. Understandably, they weren't too happy with our line of questioning, and let's just say we received our fair share of ""alternative facts."" (Laughter) Influential Nigerians were telling us at the time that we were naïve, we didn't understand the political situation in Nigeria. But they also told us that the story of the Chibok girls was a hoax. Sadly, this hoax narrative has persisted, and there are still people in Nigeria today who believe that the Chibok girls were never kidnapped. Yet I was talking to people like these — devastated parents, who told us that on the day Boko Haram kidnapped their daughters, they ran into the Sambisa Forest after the trucks carrying their daughters. They were armed with machetes, but they were forced to turn back because Boko Haram had guns. For two years, inevitably, the news agenda moved on, and for two years, we didn't hear much about the Chibok girls. Everyone presumed they were dead. But in April last year, I was able to obtain this video. This is a still from the video that Boko Haram filmed as a proof of life, and through a source, I obtained this video. But before I could publish it, I had to travel to the northeast of Nigeria to talk to the parents, to verify it. I didn't have to wait too long for confirmation. One of the mothers, when she watched the video, told me that if she could have reached into the laptop and pulled our her child from the laptop, she would have done so. For those of you who are parents, like myself, in the audience, you can only imagine the anguish that that mother felt. This video would go on to kick-start negotiation talks with Boko Haram. And a Nigerian senator told me that because of this video they entered into those talks, because they had long presumed that the Chibok girls were dead. Twenty-one girls were freed in October last year. Sadly, nearly 200 of them still remain missing. I must confess that I have not been a dispassionate observer covering this story. I am furious when I think about the wasted opportunities to rescue these girls. I am furious when I think about what the parents have told me, that if these were daughters of the rich and the powerful, they would have been found much earlier. And I am furious that the hoax narrative, I firmly believe, caused a delay; it was part of the reason for the delay in their return. This illustrates to me the deadly danger of fake news. So what can we do about it? There are some very smart people, smart engineers at Google and Facebook, who are trying to use technology to stop the spread of fake news. But beyond that, I think everybody here — you and I — we have a role to play in that. We are the ones who share the content. We are the ones who share the stories online. In this day and age, we're all publishers, and we have responsibility. In my job as a journalist, I check, I verify. I trust my gut, but I ask tough questions. Why is this person telling me this story? What do they have to gain by sharing this information? Do they have a hidden agenda? I really believe that we must all start to ask tougher questions of information that we discover online. Research shows that some of us don't even read beyond headlines before we share stories. Who here has done that? I know I have. But what if we stopped taking information that we discover at face value? What if we stop to think about the consequence of the information that we pass on and its potential to incite violence or hatred? What if we stop to think about the real-life consequences of the information that we share? Thank you very much for listening. (Applause)"	我想和你們分享一個女孩的故事，但我不能說出她的真名，所以我們暫且稱她為哈狄札。 她今年 20 歲，她很害羞，她的笑容看起來很美麗，但她卻身在痛苦中，而且她可能終生都需要藥物治療。 你知道為什麼嗎？哈狄札來自奇博克，2014 年 4 月 14 日，她被博科聖地恐怖分子綁架。她試圖要逃跑，她從載滿女孩的卡車上跳下，但在著地時摔斷了雙腿，她得爬進草叢裡躲起來。她非常害怕恐怖份子會再度找上她，那天共有 57 個女孩逃出卡車。 這個事件很快的，引起全球的關注。蜜雪兒歐巴馬、馬拉拉以及其他名人，都站出來發聲。當時我正住在倫敦，我被派到阿布加參與奈及利亞首次主辦的世界經濟論壇會議。當時綁架案在當地受到很大的關注，我們向當地政府施壓。並詢問他們，解救人質的進展。可以理解的是，他們不喜歡被質問，所以我們只得到一些「小道的事實消息」， (笑聲) 具有影響力的當地人告訴我們，我們太天真了。我們不了解奈及利亞的政治情勢，但他們也告訴我們。奇博克女孩綁架案，是假的，難過的是，這些假謠言仍被流傳著。直到現在，仍有當地人，深信奇博克女孩綁架案從未發生過，但我採訪過那些受害者，我採訪過那些絕望的父母，他們訴說著女兒被綁架的那天，他們追著卡車跑進山姆畢沙叢林裡，他們帶著彎刀衝進叢林裡，但卻被迫回頭，因為恐怖分子持有槍。 這兩年來，此新聞受到的關注越來越少，過去兩年來，我們沒有聽到太多關於奇博克女孩的消息，大家都認為她們死了。但去年四月，我拿到一部影片，這是擷自影片的畫面，恐怖分子以此證明女孩們還活著，我透過關係取得這部影片，但在我發佈影片前。我必須到奈及利亞的東北部，向受害者家長確認影片真實性，我很快就得到了答案。其中有一個母親在看過影片後跟我說，如果她能把手伸進螢幕裡，並把她的女兒拉出來，她真的很想這麼做。各位，如果你們跟我一樣，已經為人父母的話，你大概能想像那位母親，所承受的極大痛苦， 這部影片是與博科聖地談判的開端，奈及利亞的議員跟我說，因為這部影片，他們現在才採取行動。因為他們之前認為女孩們早已死亡，去年十月，21 位女孩被釋放了，不幸的是，大概還有200 位失蹤的女孩， 我得承認我沒有站在客觀的角度報導此事件，每當想起有許多機會都被浪費掉時，我就非常地氣憤。每當想起那些父母說，如果他們是有錢有勢的人，那些女孩們早就被解救時，我就很氣憤。我也對假新聞感到憤怒。我深信著那是拖延救援的原因。害那些女孩無法提早被救出來， 這讓我了解到假新聞所造成的真實傷害，我們能做什麼？在谷歌及臉書有一群，非常聰明的工程師們，試圖用新科技防止假新聞的散佈。但除此之外，我想每一個人，包含你和我，都要參與其中，我們會分享新聞，我們會在網路上分享故事，在這個時代，我們就是出版者，所以我們應要承擔責任。 身為一位記者，我會檢查、確認。我相信我的直覺，但我也會質問，為什麼這個人要告訴我這個故事？他們能從分享此資訊中獲得什麼？他們是不是有別的意圖？我相信我們應該要開始質問我們在網路上發現的資訊， 有研究指出，有些人只看到標題，就分享資訊。在座有人這麼做過嗎？我就曾經做過，但如果我們能停止轉發未經證實的消息，如果我們能仔細思考，我們所轉發的訊息，可能會引發暴力或仇恨，如果我們能在分享訊息前仔細思考，此舉會對真實世界造成什麼樣影響？ 感謝各位的聆聽。 （掌聲）
