Talk	en	zh-tw
steve_howard_let_s_go_all_in_on_selling_sustainability	"I've spent my life working on sustainability. I set up a climate change NGO called The Climate Group. I worked on forestry issues in WWF. I worked on development and agriculture issues in the U.N. system. About 25 years in total, and then three years ago, I found myself talking to IKEA's CEO about joining his team. Like many people here, well, I want to maximize my personal impact in the world, so I'm going to explain why I joined the team there. But first, let's just take three numbers. The first number is three: three billion people. This is the number of people joining the global middle class by 2030, coming out of poverty. It's fantastic for them and their families, but we've got two billion people in the global middle class today, and this swells that number to five, a big challenge when we already have resource scarcity. The second number is six: This is six degrees centigrade, what we're heading towards in terms of global warming. We're not heading towards one degree or three degrees or four degrees, we're heading toward six degrees. And if you think about it, all of the weird weather we've been having the last few years, much of that is due to just one degree warming, and we need CO2 emissions to peak by the end of this decade globally and then come down. It's not inevitable, but we need to act decisively. The third number is 12: That's the number of cities in the world that had a million or more people when my grandmother was born. You can see my grandmother there. That was in the beginning of the last century. So just 12 cities. She was born in Manchester, England, the ninth largest city in the world. Now there are 500 cities, nearly, with a million people or more in them. And if you look at the century from 1950 to 2050, that's the century when we build all the world's cities, the century that we're in the middle of right now. Every other century was kind of practice, and this lays down a blueprint for how we live. So think about it. We're building cities like never before, bringing people out of poverty like never before, and changing the climate like never before. Sustainability has gone from a nice-to-do to a must-do. it's about what we do right here, right now, and for the rest of our working lives. So I'm going to talk a little bit about what business can do and what a business like IKEA can do, and we have a sustainability strategy called ""people and planet positive"" to help guide our business to have a positive impact on the world. Why would we not want to have a positive impact on the world as a business? Other companies have sustainability strategies. I'm going to refer to some of those as well, and I'm just going to mention a few of the commitments as illustrations that we've got. But first, let's think of customers. We know from asking people from China to the U.S. that the vast majority of people care about sustainability after the day-to-day issues, the day-to-day issues of, how do I get my kids to school? Can I pay the bills at the end of the month? Then they care about big issues like climate change. But they want it to be easy, affordable and attractive, and they expect business to help, and they're a little bit disappointed today. So take your mind back and think of the first sustainable products. We had detergents that could wash your whites grayer. We had the early energy-efficient light bulbs that took five minutes to warm up and then you were left looking a kind of sickly color. And we had the rough, recycled toilet paper. So every time you pulled on a t-shirt, or switched the light on, or went to the bathroom, or sometimes all three together, you were reminded sustainability was about compromise. It wasn't a great start. Today we have choices. We can make products that are beautiful or ugly, sustainable or unsustainable, affordable or expensive, functional or useless. So let's make beautiful, functional, affordable, sustainable products. Let's take the LED. The LED is the next best thing to daylight. The old-fashioned lightbulbs, the incandescent bulbs — I'm not going to ask for a show of hands of how many of you still have them in your homes, wasting energy every time you switch them on — change them after this — or whether we have them on the stage here at TED or not — but those old incandescent light bulbs really should have been sold as heaters. They were mis-sold for more than a hundred years. They produced heat and a little bit of light on the side. Now we have lights that produce light and a little bit of heat on the side. You save 85 percent of the electricity with an LED that you would have done in an old incandescent. And the best thing is, they'll also last for more than 20 years. So think about that. You'll change your smartphone seven or eight times, probably more if you're in this audience. You'll change your car, if you have one, three or four times. Your kids could go to school, go to college, go away and have kids of their own, come back, bring the grandkids, you'll have the same lightbulb saving you energy. So LEDs are fantastic. What we decided to do was not to sell LEDs on the side marked up high and continue to push all the old bulbs, the halogens and the CFLs. We decided, over the next two years, we will ban the halogens and the CFLs ourselves. We will go all in. And this is what business needs to do: go all-in, go 100 percent, because then you stop investing in the old stuff, you invest in the new stuff, you lower costs, you use your supply chain and your creativity and you get the prices down so everybody can afford the best lights so they can save energy. (Applause) It's not just about products in people's homes. We've got to think about the raw materials that produce our products. Obviously there's fantastic opportunities with recycled materials, and we can and will go zero waste. And there's opportunities in a circular economy. But we're still dependent on natural, raw materials. Let's take cotton. Cotton's brilliant. Probably many people are wearing cotton right now. It's a brilliant textile in use. It's really dirty in production. It uses lots of pesticides, lots of fertilizer, lots of water. So we've worked with others, with other businesses and NGOs, on the Better Cotton Initiative, working right back down to the farm, and there you can halve the amount of water and halve the chemical inputs, the yields increase, and 60 percent of the costs of running many of these farms with farmers with low incomes can be chemical imports. Yields increase, and you halve the input costs. Farmers are coming out of poverty. They love it. Already hundreds of thousands of farmers have been reached, and now we've got 60 percent better cotton in our business. Again, we're going all-in. By 2015, we'll be 100 percent Better Cotton. Take the topic of 100 percent targets, actually. People sometimes think that 100 percent's going to be hard, and we've had the conversation in the business. Actually, we found 100 percent is easier to do than 90 percent or 50 percent. If you have a 90 percent target, everyone in the business finds a reason to be in the 10 percent. When it's 100 percent, it's kind of clear, and businesspeople like clarity, because then you just get the job done. So, wood. We know with forestry, it's a choice. You've got illegal logging and deforestation still on a very large scale, or you can have fantastic, responsible forestry that we can be proud of. It's a simple choice, so we've worked for many years with the Forest Stewardship Council, with literally hundreds of other organizations, and there's a point here about collaboration. So hundreds of others, of NGOs, of forest workers' unions, and of businesses, have helped create the Forest Stewardship Council, which sets standards for forestry and then checks the forestry's good on the ground. Now together, through our supply chain, with partners, we've managed to certify 35 million hectares of forestry. That's about the size of Germany. And we've decided in the next three years, we will double the volume of certified material we put through our business. So be decisive on these issues. Use your supply chain to drive good. But then it comes to your operations. Some things are certain, I think. We know we'll use electricity in 20 or 30 years' time. We know the sun will be shining somewhere, and the wind will still be blowing in 20 or 30 years' time. So why not make our energy out of the sun and the wind? And why not take control of it ourselves? So we're going 100 percent renewable. By 2020, we'll produce more renewable energy than the energy we consume as a business. For all of our stores, our own factories, our distribution centers, we've installed 300,000 solar panels so far, and we've got 14 wind farms we own and operate in six countries, and we're not done yet. But think of a solar panel. A solar panel pays for itself in seven or eight years. The electricity is free. Every time the sun comes out after that, the electricity is free. So this is a good thing for the CFO, not just the sustainability guy. Every business can do things like this. But then we've got to look beyond our operations, and I think everybody would agree that now business has to take full responsibility for the impacts of your supply chain. Many businesses now, fortunately, have codes of conduct and audit their supply chains, but not every business. Far from it. And this came in IKEA actually in the '90s. We found there was a risk of child labor in the supply chain, and people in the business were shocked. And it was clearly totally unacceptable, so then you have to act. So a code of conduct was developed, and now we have 80 auditors out in the world every day making sure all our factories secure good working conditions and protect human rights and make sure there is no child labor. But it's not just as simple as making sure there's no child labor. You've got to say that's not enough today. I think we'd all agree that children are the most important people in the world and the most vulnerable. So what can a business do today to actually use your total value chain to support a better quality of life and protect child rights? We've worked with UNICEF and Save the Children on developing some new business principles with children's rights. Increasing numbers of businesses are signing up to these, but actually in a survey, many business leaders said they thought their business had nothing to do with children. So what we decided to do was, we will look and ask ourselves the tough questions with partners who know more than us, what can we do to go beyond our business to help improve the lives of children? We also have a foundation that's committed to work through partners and help improve the lives and protect the rights of 100 million children by 2015. You know the phrase, you can manage what you measure? Well, you should measure what you care about. If you're not measuring things, you don't care and you don't know. So let's take an example, measure the things that are important in your business. Isn't it about time that businesses were led equally by men and women? (Applause) So we know for our 17,000 managers across IKEA that 47 percent are women today, but it's not enough, and we want to close the gap and follow it all the way through to senior management. And we do not want to wait another hundred years. So we've launched a women's open network this week in IKEA, and we'll do whatever it takes to lead the change. So the message here is, measure what you care about and lead the change, and don't wait a hundred years. So we've gone from sustainability being a nice-to-do to a must-do. It's a must-do. It's still nice to do, but it's a must-do. And everybody can do something on this as an individual. Be a discerning consumer. Vote with your wallets. Search out the companies that are acting on this. But also, there are other businesses already acting. I mentioned renewable energy. You go to Google or Lego, they're going 100 percent renewable too, in the same way that we are. On having really good sustainability strategies, there are companies like Nike, Patagonia, Timberland, Marks & Spencer. But I don't think any of those businesses would say they're perfect. We certainly wouldn't. We'll make mistakes going forward, but it's about setting a clear direction, being transparent, having a dialogue with the right partners, and choosing to lead on the issues that really count. So if you're a business leader, if you're not already weaving sustainability right into the heart of your business model, I'd urge you to do so. And together, we can help create a sustainable world, and, if we get it right, we can make sustainability affordable for the many people, not a luxury for the few. Thank you. (Applause)"	我畢生都為永續發展而努力我成立了一個氣候變遷非政府組織叫做 The Climate Group （氣候組群）我在世界自然基金會處理林業問題我也致力於經濟開發及農業問題在聯合國體系內我用了總共約 25 年時間致力於永續然而三年前，我發現我自己在與宜家家居執行長談加入他的團隊的事情就像在座許多人一樣，嗯我想極大化我個人在世界上的影響力所以我要跟各位解釋為什麼我要加入那個團隊 但首先，讓我們先談談三個數字 第一個數字是三「三」十億人這個數字是有多少人能在 2030 年前加入全球中產階級脫離貧窮對他們及其家人而言這棒極了但今天我們已有二十億全球中產階級人口而這數字還要膨脹到五（十億）在我們已經資源不足的情況下這是很大的挑戰 第二個數字是六這是指攝氏六度這是我們在全球暖化上的走向我們不是只增加一度或三度或四度，我們是朝六度邁進如果你回想一下，在過去幾年我們經歷的那些奇怪的天氣很多都只是因為暖化了一度而我們要讓全球二氧化碳排放量在 2020 年結束前達到高峰然後下降這不是不可避免的但我們必須果斷做出行動 第三個數字是 12這是這世界有多少城市有一百萬以上的人口在我祖母出生之時你看這是我祖母那是上世紀初的時候所以那時只有 12 個城市她在曼徹斯特出生當時的世界第九大都市現在全球已經有將近五百個都市有一百萬以上的人口如果你縱覽 1950 到 2050 這一百年這是我們建造全球都市的一百年我們現在就在這百年中間之前的其他百年就像是一種預演而這奠定了我們生活的藍圖 所以應該好好想想我們正以前所未見的方式建造城市以前所未見的方式把人們從貧窮中拯救出來並以前所未見的方式改變氣候永續已經從可行變成必行的事這與我們此時此刻在做什麼及我們未來的工作該做什麼有關 所以我要談一談企業能做什麼像宜家家居這樣的公司能做什麼我們的永續策略稱為「人類與地球正能量」以幫助我們的企業給世界帶來正面影響身為企業， 我們怎麼會不想給這個世界帶來正面影響呢？其他公司都有永續策略我也一會兒會講到他們，我也會提出一些承諾的實證 但首先讓我們先想一下顧客我們從詢問人們得知無論是中國人或美國人絕大多數的人都關心永續在日常瑣事之餘這些日常瑣事像我怎樣讓孩子去學校？月底付不付得了帳單？之後他們會關心大的議題像氣候變遷但他們希望它簡單、實惠而且吸引人而且他們期望企業幫助所以現在他們有點失望 所以請你回想一下第一個永續產品我們有洗衣精把你的白衣愈洗愈灰我們有早期的省電燈泡要等五分鐘預熱而且會讓你看起來病懨懨的然後我們還有粗糙回收紙製成的衛生紙所以每次你穿上 T 恤或開燈，或去洗手間或偶爾三者同時做的時候你就被提醒要永續就要有所犧牲這不是很好的開始 今天我們有選擇了我們可以選擇製造美或醜永續或不永續，實惠或昂貴有用或無用的產品所以讓我們製造美觀實用又實惠的永續產品 就來談談 LED （發光二極體）LED 是僅次於日光的最佳光源老式傳統燈泡，就是白熾燈泡——我沒有要大家舉手看有多少人家裡還有這個東西每次開燈都在浪費能源——聽完這段演講就去換掉——或是我們 TED 舞台上的燈是不是這種——但是那些老式白熾電燈泡真的應該被當作暖爐來賣他們錯賣超過一百年他們產生熱能順便產生一點光而現在我們有燈泡會發光卻很少產熱用 LED 燈，你節省 85% 的電力比之於你使用老式白熾電燈泡而最棒的是，他們可維持壽命超過 20 年所以想想吧這期間你會換智慧手機七八次現場觀眾可能還會換更多次如果你有車你會換車三四次你的孩子會上學，上大學離家還有了自己的孩子，帶著孫子回來看你你的電燈泡還是原來那顆，持續節能所以 LED 太棒了我們決定要做的不是把 LED 燈價錢標高放在旁邊然後繼續促銷那些老式燈泡就是鹵素燈泡及省電型螢光燈泡我們決定，在未來兩年我們自己要禁止使用鹵素燈泡及省電型螢光燈泡我們要全力投注而這是所有的企業都需要做的：全力投注下 100% 的賭注因為這樣你才會停止投資舊東西你會投資在新東西上，你會降低成本你會利用你的供應鏈及你的創造力你會把價格降低所以每個人都買得起最好的燈泡，所以他們能節省能源 （掌聲） 這不僅僅只限於人們的家用品我們還必須想到生產我們產品的原物料很明顯有很棒的機會能利用回收材質而且我們可以、也會走向零浪費在循環經濟裡有的是機會但我們仍然依賴自然的原物料就以棉來舉例棉很棒。大概很多人現在就穿著棉製品這是很好利用的紡織品製程卻真的很髒它要用很多的殺蟲劑很多的肥料，很多的水所以我們與別人合作與其他企業及非政府組織合作提出棉花更環保倡議回頭從種植的農地開始更環保在農地你能把水用量減半並減半化肥施用量產量增加，這些低收入農夫經營的這些農場60% 的成本是化肥進口費用產量增加且減半施用成本農夫就可從貧窮脫身。他們喜歡這樣的計劃已有數以萬計的農夫已被接洽過而現在我們的公司已有60% 的更環保棉花再說一次，我們要全力投注在 2015 年前我們要做到 100% 環保棉花 就實際來談 100% 目標大家有時會想100% 會很難我們在企業裡也有這樣的對話實際上，我們發現 100% 還容易點與做 90% 或 50% 相比如果你設目標是 90%企業裡的每一個人都能找到一個理由去當那 10%當目標是 100% 時，其實還滿清楚的而企業人喜歡清楚的目標因為這樣你就只要把工作做好 所以，木料。我們都知道對林業而言這是個選擇你可以選擇非法砍伐目前森林砍伐的規模仍然很大或者你可以選擇積極負責任地發展林業，讓我們以你為驕傲這是簡單的選擇題，所以我們與森林管理委員會合作多年其實就是與百餘個其他組織合作而這樣的合作是有意義的所以這百餘個其他單位由非政府組織林業工人公會及企業組成都參與創立森林管理委員會這個單位為林業制定標準然後從基礎面來檢查林業的利益現在我們透過與供應鏈以及企業夥伴合作，我們已經可以認證三千五百萬公頃的森林這大約是德國國土的面積而且我們已經決定在未來三年我們要倍增認證材料量給我們的企業使用所以在這些議題上要很堅決用你的供應鏈驅使往好的方向走 但之後還有你的營運有些事情很確定，我想我們知道我們會繼續使用電力二三十年我們知道在某處太陽依舊升起而風也還是會繼續吹個二三十年所以為什麼不拿太陽及風力來產生能量呢?而且為什麼不自己掌控呢？所以我們要作百分百可再生能源在 2020 之前我們要生產更多的可再生能源要比我們身為企業所花的能源還多在我們所有的店面，我們自己的工廠我們的配送中心我們到目前已安裝了三十萬個太陽能板我們還有 14 個自有自營的風力發電廠分佈在六個國家，而且我們還沒停但想一下太陽能板一個太陽能板七八年就能回收成本電力免費之後每次太陽升起電力就是免錢的所以這對財務長是好事不僅是對永續傢伙每個企業都能做像這樣的事 但我們一定要看的比營運長遠而我想每個人都會同意現行的企業必須負完全的責任在你的供應鏈所產生的沖擊上幸運的是現在很多企業都有規範標準且稽查他們的供應鏈但不是每個企業都如此。還早呢而宜家家居其實在 90 年代就開始了我們發現在供應鏈上有使用童工的風險而公司裡的人都很震驚這很清楚是完全不能接受的事所以你必須立刻行動所以標準規範被建立起來而現在我們有 80 位稽察員在全世界每天都在確保我們的工廠維持良好作業環境及保護人權及確保沒有童工 但這不僅是確保沒有童工這麼簡單你必須說今天這樣還不夠我想我們都同意就是兒童是世界上最重要的人也是最脆弱的所以今天一個企業可以做什麼來實際運用你的全面價值鏈以支持更好的生活品質及保護兒童權利？我們已與聯合國兒童基金會及救助兒童會合作開發一些新的企業原則保護兒童權利愈來愈多企業簽署加入這個行列但事實上在一項調查中很多企業領導人都說他們認為他們的公司與兒童毫無關係所以我們決定要做的是，我們要去看及去問我們自己這個棘手的問題也問比我們更瞭解情況的企業夥伴我們能做什麼能超越企業本身來幫助改善兒童的生活？我們也有一個基金會致力與企業夥伴合作一同幫助改善一億兒童的生活及保護他們權利，在 2015 前達成 你們都知道這句話你可以控制你能衡量的東西。嗯，你應該衡量什麼是你關心的如果你不衡量事物你就是不關心你也不懂所以讓我們舉個例，衡量對你的企業很重要的事物現在難道不就是企業該由同數量的男女領導的時候? （掌聲） 所以我們知道我們在宜家家居裡的一萬七千名經理人現在有 47% 是女人但這還不夠且我們想要縮小差距並在高階管理階級也要縮小差距而且我們不想再等一百年所以我們推出婦女的開放人脈網本週起就在宜家家居開始而且我們要竭盡所能來領導此項改變所以在這裡要傳達的信息是衡量你所關心的並領導改變且不要再等一百年 所以我們經歷了永續從可行到必行。這是勢在必行的事這仍是可行之事，但這真的勢在必行而每一個人身為個體都能為此做些什麼當一個能辨別的消費者以你的錢包來投票搜尋那些在這方面有所行動的公司但同時其他的企業也早已行動我提到的可再生能源你去谷歌或樂高他們也要做百分百可再生能源就像我們一樣有些公司有非常好的永續策略像耐吉、Patagonia 服飾天柏嵐、馬莎百貨但我認為這些公司都不會說他們完美無缺。我們當然不是在向前行時我們都會犯錯但這與設訂明確的方向，要透明化要與對的企業夥伴進行對話然後在重大事務上做领導人 所以如果你是位企業領導人如果你還未將永續納入你的企業模式核心我敦促你這樣做而一同合作，我們可以幫助建立一個永續世界而且如果我們做的對我們能讓永續成為許多人都能負擔的平價物而不是少數人的奢侈品 謝謝 （掌聲）
