Talk	en	zh-tw
steven_addis_a_father_daughter_bond_one_photo_at_a_time	"Photography has been my passion ever since I was old enough to pick up a camera, but today I want to share with you the 15 most treasured photos of mine, and I didn't take any of them. There were no art directors, no stylists, no chance for reshoots, not even any regard for lighting. In fact, most of them were taken by random tourists. My story begins when I was in New York City for a speaking engagement, and my wife took this picture of me holding my daughter on her first birthday. We're on the corner of 57th and 5th. We happened to be back in New York exactly a year later, so we decided to take the same picture. Well you can see where this is going. Approaching my daughter's third birthday, my wife said, ""Hey, why don't you take Sabina back to New York and make it a father-daughter trip, and continue the ritual?"" This is when we started asking passing tourists to take the picture. You know, it's remarkable how universal the gesture is of handing your camera to a total stranger. No one's ever refused, and luckily no one's ever run off with our camera. Back then, we had no idea how much this trip would change our lives. It's really become sacred to us. This one was taken just weeks after 9/11, and I found myself trying to explain what had happened that day in ways a five-year-old could understand. So these photos are far more than proxies for a single moment, or even a specific trip. They're also ways for us to freeze time for one week in October and reflect on our times and how we change from year to year, and not just physically, but in every way. Because while we take the same photo, our perspectives change, and she reaches new milestones, and I get to see life through her eyes, and how she interacts with and sees everything. This very focused time we get to spend together is something we cherish and anticipate the entire year. Recently, on one trip, we were walking, and she stops dead in her tracks, and she points to a red awning of the doll store that she loved when she was little on our earlier trips. And she describes to me the feeling she felt as a five-year-old standing in that exact spot. She said she remembers her heart bursting out of her chest when she saw that place for the very first time nine years earlier. And now what she's looking at in New York are colleges, because she's determined to go to school in New York. And it hit me: One of the most important things we all make are memories. So I want to share the idea of taking an active role in consciously creating memories. I don't know about you, but aside from these 15 shots, I'm not in many of the family photos. I'm always the one taking the picture. So I want to encourage everyone today to get in the shot, and don't hesitate to go up to someone and ask, ""Will you take our picture?"" Thank you. (Applause)"	"當我能抓緊一部相機的那小小年紀開始我對攝影就充滿熱情今天我想跟大家分享一下我最珍而重之的 15 張照片其中沒有一張是我照的作品拍這些照片時 都沒有藝術總監 或形象顧問沒有重拍的機會, 甚至也沒管什麽燈光效果事實上, 這大部分的照片都出自於路過的遊客之手 我的故事起於我為一場演講而來到紐約市,我太太在女兒的一歲生日那天拍了這張我抱著女兒的照片開始。這是在第 57 街與第 5 街的交界處照的整好在一年後 我們有機會又回到紐約所以我們決定在同一個場所 再拍張樣的照片 那 大家就可以猜想到下一步快到女兒三歲生日的時候我太太說: ""呀! 不如你帶莎賓娜 (Sabina) 回到紐約來個父親與女兒的旅行, 將這個旅程變成每年擧行的活動吧!""從此以後, 我們開始邀請途經的旅客為我們拍照 你知道, 讓一個完全陌生人拿著你的相機幫你拍張照片是一個多麽普遍的事沒有人曾經拒絕我們的邀請, 幸好又沒有人拿了我們的相機後逃跑 那時, 我們都沒有預料到這個旅程會怎樣改變我們的人生這個旅程續漸變得神聖這張照片是在 9/11 事件發生數星期後時照的我用以一個五歲小孩都能了解的方式解釋當天發生什麼事情給我女兒 所以這些照片所代表的不只是一個單一時刻, 又或者單一旅程它們爲我們留住當年十月的那一週使我們反思過去的途徑且讓我們體會到 不只是身體上,更是在每一方面 一年復一年 有所改變因為在我們拍這些相同照片的時候我們對人生的看法 有所改變女兒亦都會踏上新的里程碑我亦能透過她的視野 體驗到人生看到她對事物的態度 以及想法我們能相處在一起的這段時間亦是我們都享受、並且整年都期待的時刻 最近, 在這個旅程中, 當我們在漫步行走時她突然在她的路徑停下來指著那個賣洋娃娃店子的紅色涼篷在我們早期的旅程中她非常喜歡過那家店她站在那個位置, 向我形容她五歲的時候在那裏的感覺她說她記得九年之前當她第一次見到那個地方時她的心像要爆開一樣今天, 她在紐約不斷地看到的是大學院校因為她決定要到紐約讀書那瞬間我才發覺到 一生中 在我們創造的所有事當中回憶是最可貴的 所以我想讓大家領悟一下我們應該要積極地、有意識地創造回憶我不知道大家的想法如何, 但除了這 15 張照片以外家庭照裡經常都沒有我我更常是個拿相機拍照他人的那個人所以今天我想鼓勵大家去拍一張自己的照片且不要猶疑去問別人""能幫我拍一張照片嗎?""謝謝 (掌聲)"
