Talk	en	zh-tw
stewart_brand_the_dawn_of_de_extinction_are_you_ready	"Now, extinction is a different kind of death. It's bigger. We didn't really realize that until 1914, when the last passenger pigeon, a female named Martha, died at the Cincinnati zoo. This had been the most abundant bird in the world that'd been in North America for six million years. Suddenly it wasn't here at all. Flocks that were a mile wide and 400 miles long used to darken the sun. Aldo Leopold said this was a biological storm, a feathered tempest. And indeed it was a keystone species that enriched the entire eastern deciduous forest, from the Mississippi to the Atlantic, from Canada down to the Gulf. But it went from five billion birds to zero in just a couple decades. What happened? Well, commercial hunting happened. These birds were hunted for meat that was sold by the ton, and it was easy to do because when those big flocks came down to the ground, they were so dense that hundreds of hunters and netters could show up and slaughter them by the tens of thousands. It was the cheapest source of protein in America. By the end of the century, there was nothing left but these beautiful skins in museum specimen drawers. There's an upside to the story. This made people realize that the same thing was about to happen to the American bison, and so these birds saved the buffalos. But a lot of other animals weren't saved. The Carolina parakeet was a parrot that lit up backyards everywhere. It was hunted to death for its feathers. There was a bird that people liked on the East Coast called the heath hen. It was loved. They tried to protect it. It died anyway. A local newspaper spelled out, ""There is no survivor, there is no future, there is no life to be recreated in this form ever again."" There's a sense of deep tragedy that goes with these things, and it happened to lots of birds that people loved. It happened to lots of mammals. Another keystone species is a famous animal called the European aurochs. There was sort of a movie made about it recently. And the aurochs was like the bison. This was an animal that basically kept the forest mixed with grasslands across the entire Europe and Asian continent, from Spain to Korea. The documentation of this animal goes back to the Lascaux cave paintings. The extinctions still go on. There's an ibex in Spain called the bucardo. It went extinct in 2000. There was a marvelous animal, a marsupial wolf called the thylacine in Tasmania, south of Australia, called the Tasmanian tiger. It was hunted until there were just a few left to die in zoos. A little bit of film was shot. Sorrow, anger, mourning. Don't mourn. Organize. What if you could find out that, using the DNA in museum specimens, fossils maybe up to 200,000 years old could be used to bring species back, what would you do? Where would you start? Well, you'd start by finding out if the biotech is really there. I started with my wife, Ryan Phelan, who ran a biotech business called DNA Direct, and through her, one of her colleagues, George Church, one of the leading genetic engineers who turned out to be also obsessed with passenger pigeons and a lot of confidence that methodologies he was working on might actually do the deed. So he and Ryan organized and hosted a meeting at the Wyss Institute in Harvard bringing together specialists on passenger pigeons, conservation ornithologists, bioethicists, and fortunately passenger pigeon DNA had already been sequenced by a molecular biologist named Beth Shapiro. All she needed from those specimens at the Smithsonian was a little bit of toe pad tissue, because down in there is what is called ancient DNA. It's DNA which is pretty badly fragmented, but with good techniques now, you can basically reassemble the whole genome. Then the question is, can you reassemble, with that genome, the whole bird? George Church thinks you can. So in his book, ""Regenesis,"" which I recommend, he has a chapter on the science of bringing back extinct species, and he has a machine called the Multiplex Automated Genome Engineering machine. It's kind of like an evolution machine. You try combinations of genes that you write at the cell level and then in organs on a chip, and the ones that win, that you can then put into a living organism. It'll work. The precision of this, one of George's famous unreadable slides, nevertheless points out that there's a level of precision here right down to the individual base pair. The passenger pigeon has 1.3 billion base pairs in its genome. So what you're getting is the capability now of replacing one gene with another variation of that gene. It's called an allele. Well that's what happens in normal hybridization anyway. So this is a form of synthetic hybridization of the genome of an extinct species with the genome of its closest living relative. Now along the way, George points out that his technology, the technology of synthetic biology, is currently accelerating at four times the rate of Moore's Law. It's been doing that since 2005, and it's likely to continue. Okay, the closest living relative of the passenger pigeon is the band-tailed pigeon. They're abundant. There's some around here. Genetically, the band-tailed pigeon already is mostly living passenger pigeon. There's just some bits that are band-tailed pigeon. If you replace those bits with passenger pigeon bits, you've got the extinct bird back, cooing at you. Now, there's work to do. You have to figure out exactly what genes matter. So there's genes for the short tail in the band-tailed pigeon, genes for the long tail in the passenger pigeon, and so on with the red eye, peach-colored breast, flocking, and so on. Add them all up and the result won't be perfect. But it should be be perfect enough, because nature doesn't do perfect either. So this meeting in Boston led to three things. First off, Ryan and I decided to create a nonprofit called Revive and Restore that would push de-extinction generally and try to have it go in a responsible way, and we would push ahead with the passenger pigeon. Another direct result was a young grad student named Ben Novak, who had been obsessed with passenger pigeons since he was 14 and had also learned how to work with ancient DNA, himself sequenced the passenger pigeon, using money from his family and friends. We hired him full-time. Now, this photograph I took of him last year at the Smithsonian, he's looking down at Martha, the last passenger pigeon alive. So if he's successful, she won't be the last. The third result of the Boston meeting was the realization that there are scientists all over the world working on various forms of de-extinction, but they'd never met each other. And National Geographic got interested because National Geographic has the theory that the last century, discovery was basically finding things, and in this century, discovery is basically making things. De-extinction falls in that category. So they hosted and funded this meeting. And 35 scientists, they were conservation biologists and molecular biologists, basically meeting to see if they had work to do together. Some of these conservation biologists are pretty radical. There's three of them who are not just re-creating ancient species, they're recreating extinct ecosystems in northern Siberia, in the Netherlands, and in Hawaii. Henri, from the Netherlands, with a Dutch last name I won't try to pronounce, is working on the aurochs. The aurochs is the ancestor of all domestic cattle, and so basically its genome is alive, it's just unevenly distributed. So what they're doing is working with seven breeds of primitive, hardy-looking cattle like that Maremmana primitivo on the top there to rebuild, over time, with selective back-breeding, the aurochs. Now, re-wilding is moving faster in Korea than it is in America, and so the plan is, with these re-wilded areas all over Europe, they will introduce the aurochs to do its old job, its old ecological role, of clearing the somewhat barren, closed-canopy forest so that it has these biodiverse meadows in it. Another amazing story came from Alberto Fernández-Arias. Alberto worked with the bucardo in Spain. The last bucardo was a female named Celia who was still alive, but then they captured her, they got a little bit of tissue from her ear, they cryopreserved it in liquid nitrogen, released her back into the wild, but a few months later, she was found dead under a fallen tree. They took the DNA from that ear, they planted it as a cloned egg in a goat, the pregnancy came to term, and a live baby bucardo was born. It was the first de-extinction in history. (Applause) It was short-lived. Sometimes interspecies clones have respiration problems. This one had a malformed lung and died after 10 minutes, but Alberto was confident that cloning has moved along well since then, and this will move ahead, and eventually there will be a population of bucardos back in the mountains in northern Spain. Cryopreservation pioneer of great depth is Oliver Ryder. At the San Diego zoo, his frozen zoo has collected the tissues from over 1,000 species over the last 35 years. Now, when it's frozen that deep, minus 196 degrees Celsius, the cells are intact and the DNA is intact. They're basically viable cells, so someone like Bob Lanza at Advanced Cell Technology took some of that tissue from an endangered animal called the Javan banteng, put it in a cow, the cow went to term, and what was born was a live, healthy baby Javan banteng, who thrived and is still alive. The most exciting thing for Bob Lanza is the ability now to take any kind of cell with induced pluripotent stem cells and turn it into germ cells, like sperm and eggs. So now we go to Mike McGrew who is a scientist at Roslin Institute in Scotland, and Mike's doing miracles with birds. So he'll take, say, falcon skin cells, fibroblast, turn it into induced pluripotent stem cells. Since it's so pluripotent, it can become germ plasm. He then has a way to put the germ plasm into the embryo of a chicken egg so that that chicken will have, basically, the gonads of a falcon. You get a male and a female each of those, and out of them comes falcons. (Laughter) Real falcons out of slightly doctored chickens. Ben Novak was the youngest scientist at the meeting. He showed how all of this can be put together. The sequence of events: he'll put together the genomes of the band-tailed pigeon and the passenger pigeon, he'll take the techniques of George Church and get passenger pigeon DNA, the techniques of Robert Lanza and Michael McGrew, get that DNA into chicken gonads, and out of the chicken gonads get passenger pigeon eggs, squabs, and now you're getting a population of passenger pigeons. It does raise the question of, they're not going to have passenger pigeon parents to teach them how to be a passenger pigeon. So what do you do about that? Well birds are pretty hard-wired, as it happens, so most of that is already in their DNA, but to supplement it, part of Ben's idea is to use homing pigeons to help train the young passenger pigeons how to flock and how to find their way to their old nesting grounds and feeding grounds. There were some conservationists, really famous conservationists like Stanley Temple, who is one of the founders of conservation biology, and Kate Jones from the IUCN, which does the Red List. They're excited about all this, but they're also concerned that it might be competitive with the extremely important efforts to protect endangered species that are still alive, that haven't gone extinct yet. You see, you want to work on protecting the animals out there. You want to work on getting the market for ivory in Asia down so you're not using 25,000 elephants a year. But at the same time, conservation biologists are realizing that bad news bums people out. And so the Red List is really important, keep track of what's endangered and critically endangered, and so on. But they're about to create what they call a Green List, and the Green List will have species that are doing fine, thank you, species that were endangered, like the bald eagle, but they're much better off now, thanks to everybody's good work, and protected areas around the world that are very, very well managed. So basically, they're learning how to build on good news. And they see reviving extinct species as the kind of good news you might be able to build on. Here's a couple related examples. Captive breeding will be a major part of bringing back these species. The California condor was down to 22 birds in 1987. Everybody thought is was finished. Thanks to captive breeding at the San Diego Zoo, there's 405 of them now, 226 are out in the wild. That technology will be used on de-extincted animals. Another success story is the mountain gorilla in Central Africa. In 1981, Dian Fossey was sure they were going extinct. There were just 254 left. Now there are 880. They're increasing in population by three percent a year. The secret is, they have an eco-tourism program, which is absolutely brilliant. So this photograph was taken last month by Ryan with an iPhone. That's how comfortable these wild gorillas are with visitors. Another interesting project, though it's going to need some help, is the northern white rhinoceros. There's no breeding pairs left. But this is the kind of thing that a wide variety of DNA for this animal is available in the frozen zoo. A bit of cloning, you can get them back. So where do we go from here? These have been private meetings so far. I think it's time for the subject to go public. What do people think about it? You know, do you want extinct species back? Do you want extinct species back? (Applause) Tinker Bell is going to come fluttering down. It is a Tinker Bell moment, because what are people excited about with this? What are they concerned about? We're also going to push ahead with the passenger pigeon. So Ben Novak, even as we speak, is joining the group that Beth Shapiro has at UC Santa Cruz. They're going to work on the genomes of the passenger pigeon and the band-tailed pigeon. As that data matures, they'll send it to George Church, who will work his magic, get passenger pigeon DNA out of that. We'll get help from Bob Lanza and Mike McGrew to get that into germ plasm that can go into chickens that can produce passenger pigeon squabs that can be raised by band-tailed pigeon parents, and then from then on, it's passenger pigeons all the way, maybe for the next six million years. You can do the same thing, as the costs come down, for the Carolina parakeet, for the great auk, for the heath hen, for the ivory-billed woodpecker, for the Eskimo curlew, for the Caribbean monk seal, for the woolly mammoth. Because the fact is, humans have made a huge hole in nature in the last 10,000 years. We have the ability now, and maybe the moral obligation, to repair some of the damage. Most of that we'll do by expanding and protecting wildlands, by expanding and protecting the populations of endangered species. But some species that we killed off totally we could consider bringing back to a world that misses them. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. I've got a question. So, this is an emotional topic. Some people stand. I suspect there are some people out there sitting, kind of asking tormented questions, almost, about, well, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute, there's something wrong with mankind interfering in nature in this way. There's going to be unintended consequences. You're going to uncork some sort of Pandora's box of who-knows-what. Do they have a point? Stewart Brand: Well, the earlier point is we interfered in a big way by making these animals go extinct, and many of them were keystone species, and we changed the whole ecosystem they were in by letting them go. Now, there's the shifting baseline problem, which is, so when these things come back, they might replace some birds that are there that people really know and love. I think that's, you know, part of how it'll work. This is a long, slow process — One of the things I like about it, it's multi-generation. We will get woolly mammoths back. CA: Well it feels like both the conversation and the potential here are pretty thrilling. Thank you so much for presenting. SB: Thank you. CA: Thank you. (Applause)"	物種滅絕是一種不一樣的死亡它的規模更大但直到 1914 年，當最後一隻旅鴿 ——一隻名叫瑪莎的母鳥 —— 在辛辛那提動物園中去世時，我們才瞭解到這份震撼牠們曾是世界上數量最多的鳥類存活於北美洲六百萬年突然間就消失了旅鴿鳥群曾達 1 英里寬並綿延 400 英里甚至可以遮蔽太陽阿爾多．李奧帕德曾如此形容：這是一場生物風暴、一場飛羽旋風牠們也確實是關鍵物種盤踞美東的落葉林從密西西比河到大西洋從加拿大一路到墨西哥灣但從五十億隻歸零卻只花了數十年的時間發生什麼事呢？ 嗯，發生了商業性的獵殺這種鳥類被獵殺並成噸地賣入肉品市場牠們成群的飛行，讓獵殺易如反掌當牠們接近地面時，數百名獵人可以輕而易舉地從如此密集的鳥群中獵殺到成千上萬的獵物牠們曾是美國最廉價的蛋白質來源到 19 世紀末葉，牠們就從地球上消失了只剩披蓋華羽的標本躺在博物館中 但這故事仍有光明的一面這讓人類意識到同樣的狀況也將發生在美洲水牛身上所以這些鳥的滅絕救了水牛 但仍有許多我們保護不及的動物卡羅萊納長尾鸚鵡曾是點亮每家後院的嬌客卻因羽毛需求而被獵殺殆盡曾經有種叫北美松雞的鳥被東岸人喜愛因為牠令人喜歡，人們試圖保護牠但牠們最終還是滅絕了地方報紙曾說：「沒有生還，也沒有未來，世界再也沒辦法創造出這樣的生命。」當物種消失時，總是有種深沈的哀傷蔓延許多受人喜愛的鳥類已遭此命運同樣狀況也發生在哺乳動物身上另一個關鍵物種是有名的動物歐洲野牛最近甚至有部關於牠們的電影這些野牛很像水牛基本上，這種動物的生態功能使得歐亞大陸的森林之間保有草原牠們分佈從西班牙到韓國而人類關於這種動物的記載可以回溯到拉斯科岩洞畫的年代 許多動物仍陸續滅絕一種分佈在西班牙，名為布卡多山羊的野山羊於 2000 年滅絕也有一些令人驚嘆的物種，像是袋狼牠們在澳洲的塔斯馬尼亞州又稱塔斯馬尼亞狼或塔斯馬尼亞虎牠們也逃不過獵殺，最後幾隻在動物園中死去這是一小段影片 沈重、憤怒、悲傷但別悲傷，振作起來如果你發現利用博物館標本或是 20 萬年前化石中的 DNA可以讓這些物種復活你會怎麼做呢？ 你又會從何做起？ 你可能會先確定，生物技術是否達得到要求我則是從我太太萊恩．費倫那開始她經營一家叫 DNA Direct 的生技公司透過她，我認識了她同事喬治．邱奇他也是位著迷於旅鴿的頂尖基因工程師他對他所使用的方法深具信心他對他所使用的方法深具信心並認為他可以讓物種復活 所以他和萊恩策劃並主持了一個會議在哈佛的維斯學院招集了一批旅鴿專家、鳥類保育學家、生物倫理學家而且很幸運的是旅鴿的 DNA 已經被一名叫做貝絲．夏皮羅的分子生物學家完成定序而她只用了保存在史密森納研究院標本中的一小塊腳部組織因為裡面含有原始 DNADNA 已經碎裂成片段利用現在的技術，你可以重組成完整的基因序列 問題在於你能不能利用基因體生出隻健全的鳥？喬治．邱奇認為這可以達到在他寫的、也是我強力推薦的 «重生» 中有一章解釋了復活滅絕物種的技術這個機器被他稱為：多樣化自動基因體建構機這項技術和演化的機制類似你將不同組合的基因送入細胞從細胞層級到組織層級再把成功存活下來的組織送入代理孕母體內，它就會成功從喬治難以辨識的紀錄中我們可以知道這項技術的精確度達到鹼基對的層級候鴿基因體包含 13 億對鹼基 所以你現在能做的是把一個基因用它的對偶基因取代（譯注：這是用來解決原始基因序列上破碎、缺失的問題）這在正常的精卵結合過程中也會發生所以，我們可用和滅絕物種最接近的物種組合並修復滅絕物種的基因體在此過程中，喬治指出他所使用的合成生物學技術現在成長速度是莫爾定律的四倍這從 2005 開始，也很有可能一直延續下去 最接近旅鴿的存活物種是帶尾鴿他們數量龐大，在這附近也有從基因層面來說，帶尾鴿幾乎是活著的旅鴿牠們的基因體中只有一些是帶尾鴿特有的序列牠們的基因體中只有一些是帶尾鴿特有的序列如果你將這些序列以旅鴿特有的序列取代你就有一隻已經滅絕旅鴿對你咕咕叫 現在需要著手進行的是:你必須分辨出哪些基因是重要的像是帶尾鴿擁有短尾的基因而旅鴿則是表現長尾的基因還有紅眼、桃紅色的胸部和群集行為等基因將這些都加在一起，結果不會是完美的但應該就近乎完美了自然界中也沒有「完美」的作品 所以，在波士頓的會議中決定了三件事 首先，我和萊恩創立了個非營利組織這個名為「復活與保存」的組織致力以付責任的方式推動「反滅絕」而我們將先從旅鴿做起 另一項結果是本．諾瓦克，一位年輕研究生他從 14 歲起就被旅鴿所深深著迷而且在學會如何操作原始 DNA 後他利用家人和朋友的金援完成了旅鴿基因體定序我們雇用了他這是一張去年在史密森納我幫他照的照片照片中他低頭看著瑪莎 ——世界上最後一隻旅鴿如果他成功的話，她就不會是最後一隻 波士頓會議的第三項結果是讓我們瞭解到世界上有許多科學家在進行不同型式的反滅絕但他們素未謀面而國家地理頻道對此感到興趣因為他們有個想法就是上世紀的發現是為了尋找未知而這個世紀是在創造發明而反滅絕符合此條件所以他們資助並主辦了這場會議讓 35 位保育生物學家和分子生物學家見面並討論合作機會其中一些保育生物學家非常激進其中三人不只要讓古生物復活他們更希望在北西伯利亞、荷蘭和夏威夷恢復已經消失的生態系統 來自荷蘭的亨利嗯，我不會試著說他的荷文姓氏在做歐洲野牛歐洲野牛是所有被馴養牛種的祖先所以牠的基因體還存在，只是不平均的散佈在不同品種裡所以他們利用七個原始、強韌和上圖原牛相似的品種利用篩選性的繁殖希望可以讓歐洲野牛重現現在野放在韓國推展得比美國更為快速所以我們計畫將野牛引進歐洲的野放區讓牠們扮演原有的生態功能牠們原本在生態系中扮演的角色讓原本茂密森林下的貧脊土壤重現多樣化的草原植被 另一個令人驚歎的故事是來自阿貝圖．費爾南斯．阿里阿貝圖在西班牙研究布卡多山羊最後一隻是名叫西麗亞的母羊當研究員捕捉牠時牠還健在當時他們從牠耳朵取得一小塊組織並冷凍保存於液態氮中後將牠野放但數個月後發現牠被樹木壓死他們利用牠耳朵中的 DNA恢復成受精卵的形式並殖入山羊當孕期結束活生生的布卡多山羊就出生了這是歷史上第一個反滅絕的實例 （掌聲） 但牠活的不久有時候跨種的複製會造成呼吸系統的問題這隻肺臟發育不全的羊只存活了 10 分鐘但阿貝圖對此深具信心因為動物複製技術已有長足進步未來終究會更加發達他相信未來會有成群的布卡多山羊重返西班牙北部的山區 冷凍保存的先驅奧利弗．雷德在聖地牙哥動物園中他的冰凍園區在過去 35 年內蒐集了超過 1 千種物種的組織當冰封在低溫 ——攝氏 -196 度細胞和其中的 DNA 都可以完整保存它們基本上都是能培養的細胞先進細胞科技公司的鮑勃．蘭扎從瀕臨絕種的爪哇野牛的冷凍組織中取了一些殖入母乳牛當母牛孕期屆滿一隻健康的爪哇野牛寶寶就誕生了牠仍健在，也在持續成長中 最讓鮑博興奮的是現在可將任何細胞誘導成全能幹細胞並將其分化成如精子、卵子這類生殖細胞的技術 現在我們來介紹麥克．麥格羅他是一位在蘇格蘭羅斯林研究所的科學家麥克在鳥類上展現奇蹟他會拿獵鷹的皮膚細胞，例如纖維母細胞讓它恢復成全能幹細胞因為它具有全能性，所以也可分化成種質讓後他有種方法可以將種質送入雞蛋的胚胎中所以這隻雞將會長出獵鷹的生殖腺當你把牠們湊成對後就可以生出獵鷹了（笑聲）從改造的雞生出獵鷹 本．諾瓦克是會議中最年輕的科學家他預見如何讓這些技術銜接在一起流程如下：他會先利用帶尾鴿和旅鴿的基因體放在一起再利用喬治．邱奇的技術修復旅鴿的 DNA羅伯特．蘭扎和麥克．麥格羅的技術則可以將 DNA 送入雞的生殖腺並生出旅鴿蛋、孵化成雛鴿你就可得到旅鴿族群 這可能會有個問題：沒有旅鴿親鳥如何教導乳鴿成為一隻真正的旅鴿?你會怎麼解決這個問題？還好大部份鳥類行為都包還含在牠們的 DNA 裡但為了保險起見，他提出一個想法：利用信鴿教導年輕的旅鴿如何結隊飛行並且找到原本築巢、育幼的地方 有一些保育學家包含創立保育生物學的著名科學家史坦利．鄧波和 IUCN 負責編篡紅名單的凱特．瓊斯（IUCN：國際自然保護聯盟）他們對此都非常振奮但他們也擔心這會和保護還存活的瀕臨絕種動物這項重要工作競爭資源你必須保護還存活著的動物為了避免每年 2.5 萬頭被獵殺的大象你必須停止亞州的象牙交易 但同時保育生物學家也發現壞消息使人喪氣所以即使負責追蹤危險和瀕臨絕種動物的紅名單很重要但是他們也準備編纂綠名單而綠名單會告訴你哪些物種現在過的很好曾經瀕臨絕種的白頭鷹因為大家的努力，現在牠們的狀況已經轉好而各地的保育區也都經營完善所以他們現在也試著散佈好消息而讓絕種生物復活就是一個你會想得到的好消息 這裡有幾個相關的例子：人工繁殖培育是復育生物的重要環節加州神鷲在 1987 年僅剩 22 隻大家都覺得牠們要消失了因為聖地牙哥動物園的人工繁殖培育現在已有 405 隻，其中 226 隻已經野放這項技術會被用在反滅絕復育的物種另外一個成功的故事是中非的巨猩在 1981 年黛安．弗西確信牠們要滅絕了牠們僅剩 254 隻現在已經有 880 隻並且逐年上升 3%祕訣就在於他們推動生態旅遊計畫這招很聰明這張照片是上個月萊恩用 iPhone 拍的野生巨猩在遊客前面顯得多麼自在 另外一個需要我們幫助的計畫是關於北白犀牛牠們已經沒有能生育的配對了但是這種動物有多樣化的 DNA保存於冷凍園區只要做個複製，你就能把牠們救回來 所以我們未來的方向是什麼？過去一直都是私人集會我覺得應該讓大眾瞭解這個議題大家會怎麼想呢？你們會想要讓救回絕種動物嗎？你們會嗎？ （掌聲） 彼得潘的小叮噹已經翩翩降臨現在正是彌補過去的時刻大家為何感到興奮？他們關心什麼？ 我們會先從旅鴿著手就在此時，本．諾瓦克已和加大聖克魯分校的貝絲．夏皮羅合作他們正在進行旅鴿和帶尾鴿基因體的研究當研究結果成熟時，他們會交給喬治．邱奇讓他展現魔法還原旅鴿 DNA再藉由鮑博．蘭扎和麥克．麥格羅的幫助將種質放進雞體內讓牠們生下小旅鴿再讓帶尾鴿將牠們撫養長大繼續這樣下去，旅鴿就可以自行繁衍或許牠們可在天空翱翔下個 60 萬年當成本降低時可以對卡羅萊納長尾鸚鵡、大海雀、北美松雞、象牙喙啄木鳥、愛斯基摩杓鷸、加勒比僧海豹、和長毛象進行相同的復活程序 事實如此 : 在過去的一萬年人類讓自然缺了一角而今我們有能力或許也有義務去修復這些損害我們大部份藉由擴展保育原生地和藉由擴大並保護瀕臨絕種的物種族群 來達成任務但對某些物種而言我們已經將牠們趕盡殺絕了我們可以試著讓牠們復活回到想念牠們的世界 謝謝大家 （掌聲） 查理斯．安德森：謝謝你我有個問題這是個感性的話題。有人支持我相信也有些人會有個苦惱的問題：等一下，人類不應該這樣干預自然這可能會有預期外的後果你將打開潘朵拉的盒子誰知道裡面裝了什麼。他們這樣說有道理嗎？ 史都華．布蘭德：嗯，首先是我們人類先干預自然，造成動物絕種許多都是關鍵物種讓牠們絕種的同時我們也對生態系統造成衝擊最根本的問題是:當我們把牠們復活時牠們可能會取代現在在那裡的鳥類而這些可能也是人類認識並喜愛的物種我想這個能給你們一個它發展方向的概念這是一個漫長且緩慢的過程讓我興奮的昰，這需要好幾世代的努力我們可以將長毛象復活 查：我相信這場談話和其潛力都很令人振奮感謝你的演說史：謝謝 查：謝謝你們 （掌聲）
