Talk	en	zh-tw
sting_how_i_started_writing_songs_again	"(Music) ♪ It's all there in gospels ♪ ♪A Magdalene girl comes to pay her respects ♪ ♪ But her mind is awhirl ♪ ♪ When she finds the tomb empty ♪ ♪ Straw had been rolled ♪ ♪ Not a sign of a corpse ♪ ♪ In the dark and the cold ♪ ♪ When she reaches the door ♪ ♪ Sees an unholy sight ♪ ♪ There's a solitary figure and a halo of light ♪ ♪ He just carries on floating past Calvary Hill ♪ ♪ In an Almighty hurry ♪ ♪ Aye, but she might catch him still ♪ ♪ Tell me where are you gone, Lord ♪ ♪ And why in such haste? ♪ ♪ Oh don't hinder me, woman ♪ ♪ I've no time to waste ♪ ♪ For they're launching a boat on the morrow at noon ♪ ♪ And I have to be there before daybreak ♪ ♪ Oh I cannot be missing ♪ ♪ The lads'll expect me ♪ ♪ Why else would the Good Lord Himself resurrect me? ♪ ♪ For nothing'll stop me. I have to prevail ♪ ♪ Through the teeth of this tempest ♪ ♪ In the mouth of a gale ♪ ♪ May the angels protect me ♪ ♪ If all else should fail ♪ ♪ And the last ship sails ♪ ♪ Oh the roar of the chains ♪ ♪ And the cracking of timbers ♪ ♪ The noise at the end of the world in your ears ♪ ♪ As a mountain of steel makes its way to the sea ♪ ♪ And the last ship sails ♪ So I was born and raised in the shadow of a shipyard in a little town on the northeast coast of England. Some of my earliest memories are of giant ships blocking the end of my street, as well as the sun, for a lot of the year. Every morning as a child, I'd watch thousands of men walk down that hill to work in the shipyard. I'd watch those same men walking back home every night. It has to be said, the shipyard was not the most pleasant place to live next door to, or indeed work in. The shipyard was noisy, dangerous, highly toxic, with an appalling health and safety record. Despite that, the men and women who worked on those ships were extraordinarily proud of the work they did, and justifiably so. Some of the largest vessels ever constructed on planet Earth were built right at the end of my street. My grandfather had been a shipwright, and as a child, as there were few other jobs in the town, I would wonder with some anxiety whether that would be my destiny too. I was fairly determined that it wouldn't be. I had other dreams, not necessarily practical ones, but at the age of eight, I was bequeathed a guitar. It was a battered old thing with five rusty strings, and was out of tune, but quickly I learned to play it and realized that I'd found a friend for life, an accomplice, a co-conspirator in my plan to escape from this surreal industrial landscape. Well, they say if you dream something hard enough, it will come to pass. Either that, or I was extremely lucky, but this was my dream. I dreamt I would leave this town, and just like those ships, once they were launched, I'd never come back. I dreamt I'd become a writer of songs, that I would sing those songs to vast numbers of people all over the world, that I would be paid extravagant amounts of money, that I'd become famous, that I'd marry a beautiful woman, have children, raise a family, buy a big house in the country, keep dogs, grow wine, have rooms full of Grammy Awards, platinum discs, and what have you. So far, so good, right? (Laughter) And then one day, the songs stopped coming, and while you've suffered from periods of writer's block before, albeit briefly, this is something chronic. Day after day, you face a blank page, and nothing's coming. And those days turned to weeks, and weeks to months, and pretty soon those months have turned into years with very little to show for your efforts. No songs. So you start asking yourself questions. What have I done to offend the gods that they would abandon me so? Is the gift of songwriting taken away as easily as it seems to have been bestowed? Or perhaps there's a more — a deeper psychological reason. It was always a Faustian pact anyway. You're rewarded for revealing your innermost thoughts, your private emotions on the page for the entertainment of others, for the analysis, the scrutiny of others, and perhaps you've given enough of your privacy away. And yet, if you look at your work, could it be argued that your best work wasn't about you at all, it was about somebody else? Did your best work occur when you sidestepped your own ego and you stopped telling your story, but told someone else's story, someone perhaps without a voice, where empathetically, you stood in his shoes for a while or saw the world through his eyes? Well they say, write what you know. If you can't write about yourself anymore, then who do you write about? So it's ironic that the landscape I'd worked so hard to escape from, and the community that I'd more or less abandoned and exiled myself from should be the very landscape, the very community I would have to return to to find my missing muse. And as soon as I did that, as soon as I decided to honor the community I came from and tell their story, that the songs started to come thick and fast. I've described it as a kind of projectile vomiting, a torrent of ideas, of characters, of voices, of verses, couplets, entire songs almost formed whole, materialized in front of me as if they'd been bottled up inside me for many, many years. One of the first things I wrote was just a list of names of people I'd known, and they become characters in a kind of three-dimensional drama, where they explain who they are, what they do, their hopes and their fears for the future. This is Jackie White. He's the foreman of the shipyard. My name is Jackie White, and I'm foreman of the yard, and you don't mess with Jackie on this quayside. I'm as hard as iron plate, woe betide you if you're late when we have to push a boat out on the spring tide. Now you can die and hope for heaven, but you need to work your shift, and I'd expect you all to back us to the hilt, for if St. Peter at his gate were to ask you why you're late, why, you tell him that you had to get a ship built. We build battleships and cruisers for Her Majesty the Queen, supertankers for Onassis, and all the classes in between, We built the greatest ship in tonnage what the world has ever seen ♪ And the only life worth knowing is in the shipyard ♪ ♪ Steel in the stockyard, iron in the soul ♪ ♪ Would conjure up a ship ♪ ♪ Where there used to be a hull ♪ ♪ And we don't know what we'll do ♪ ♪ If this yard gets sold ♪ ♪ For the only life worth knowing is in the shipyard ♪ (Applause) So having decided to write about other people instead of myself, a further irony is that sometimes you reveal more about yourself than you'd ever intended. This song is called ""Dead Man's Boots,"" which is an expression which describes how difficult it is to get a job; in other words, you'd only get a job in the shipyard if somebody else died. Or perhaps your father could finagle you an apprenticeship at the age of 15. But sometimes a father's love can be misconstrued as controlling, and conversely, the scope of his son's ambition can seem like some pie-in-the-sky fantasy. (Music) ♪ You see these work boots in my hands ♪ ♪ They'll probably fit you now, my son ♪ ♪ Take them, they're a gift from me ♪ ♪ Why don't you try them on? ♪ ♪ It would do your old man good to see ♪ ♪ You walking in these boots one day ♪ ♪ And take your place among the men ♪ ♪ Who work upon the slipway ♪ ♪ These dead man's boots, though they're old and curled ♪ ♪ When a fellow needs a job and a place in the world ♪ ♪ And it's time for a man to put down roots ♪ ♪ And walk to the river in his old man's boots ♪ ♪ He said, ""I'm dying, son, and asking ♪ ♪ That you do one final thing for me ♪ ♪ You're barely but a sapling, and you think that you're a tree ♪ ♪ If you need a seed to prosper ♪ ♪ You must first put down some roots ♪ ♪ Just one foot then the other in ♪ ♪ These dead man's boots"" ♪ ♪ These dead man's boots, though they're old and curled ♪ ♪ When a fellow needs a job and a place in the world ♪ ♪ And it's time for a man to put down roots ♪ ♪ And walk to the river in his old man's boots ♪ ♪ I said, ""Why in the hell would I do that? ♪ ♪ Why would I agree?"" ♪ ♪ When his hand was all that I'd received ♪ ♪ As far as I remember ♪ ♪ It's not as if he'd spoiled me with his kindness ♪ ♪ Up to then, you see ♪ ♪ I'd a plan of my own and I'd quit this place ♪ ♪ When I came of age September ♪ ♪ These dead man's boots know their way down the hill ♪ ♪ They could walk there themselves, and they probably will ♪ ♪ I've plenty of choices, I've plenty other routes ♪ ♪ And you'll never see me walking in these dead man's boots ♪ ♪ What was it made him think ♪ ♪ I'd be happy ending up like him ♪ ♪ When he'd hardly got two halfpennies left ♪ ♪ Or a broken pot to piss in? ♪ ♪ He wanted this same thing for me ♪ ♪ Was that his final wish? ♪ ♪ He said, ""What the hell are you gonna do?"" ♪ ♪ I said, ""Anything but this!"" ♪ ♪ These dead man's boots know their way down the hill ♪ ♪ They can walk there themselves and they probably will ♪ ♪ But they won't walk with me ‘cause I'm off the other way ♪ ♪ I've had it up to here, I'm gonna have my say ♪ ♪ When all you've got left is that cross on the wall ♪ ♪ I want nothing from you, I want nothing at all ♪ ♪ Not a pension, nor a pittance, when your whole life is through ♪ ♪ Get this through your head, I'm nothing like you ♪ ♪ I'm done with all the arguments, there'll be no more disputes ♪ ♪ And you'll die before you see me in your dead man's boots ♪ (Applause) Thank you. So whenever they'd launch a big ship, they would invite some dignitary up from London on the train to make a speech, break a bottle of champagne over the bows, launch it down the slipway into the river and out to sea. Occasionally on a really important ship, they'd get a member of the royal family to come, Duke of Edinburgh, Princess Anne or somebody. And you have to remember, it wasn't that long ago that the royal family in England were considered to have magical healing powers. Sick children were held up in crowds to try and touch the cloak of the king or the queen to cure them of some terrible disease. It wasn't like that in my day, but we still got very excited. So it's a launch day, it's a Saturday, and my mother has dressed me up in my Sunday best. I'm not very happy with her. All the kids are out in the street, and we have little Union Jacks to wave, and at the top of the hill, there's a motorcycle cortege appears. In the middle of the motorcycles, there's a big, black Rolls-Royce. Inside the Rolls-Royce is the Queen Mother. This is a big deal. So the procession is moving at a stately pace down my street, and as it approaches my house, I start to wave my flag vigorously, and there is the Queen Mother. I see her, and she seems to see me. She acknowledges me. She waves, and she smiles. And I wave my flag even more vigorously. We're having a moment, me and the Queen Mother. She's acknowledged me. And then she's gone. Well, I wasn't cured of anything. It was the opposite, actually. I was infected. I was infected with an idea. I don't belong in this street. I don't want to live in that house. I don't want to end up in that shipyard. I want to be in that car. (Laughter) I want a bigger life. I want a life beyond this town. I want a life that's out of the ordinary. It's my right. It's my right as much as hers. And so here I am at TED, I suppose to tell that story, and I think it's appropriate to say the obvious that there's a symbiotic and intrinsic link between storytelling and community, between community and art, between community and science and technology, between community and economics. It's my belief that abstract economic theory that denies the needs of community or denies the contribution that community makes to economy is shortsighted, cruel and untenable. (Applause) The fact is, whether you're a rock star or whether you're a welder in a shipyard, or a tribesman in the upper Amazon, or the queen of England, at the end of the day, we're all in the same boat. ♪ Aye, the footmen are frantic in their indignation ♪ ♪ You see the queen's took a taxi herself to the station ♪ ♪ Where the porters, surprised by her lack of royal baggage ♪ ♪ Bustle her and three corgis to the rear of the carriage ♪ ♪ For the train it is crammed with all Europe's nobility ♪ ♪ And there's none of them famous for their compatibility ♪ ♪ There's a fight over seats ♪ ♪ ""I beg pardon, Your Grace ♪ ♪ But you'll find that one's mine, so get back in your place!"" ♪ ♪ ""Aye, but where are they going?"" ♪ ♪ All the porters debate ♪ ♪ ""Why they're going to Newcastle and they daren't be late ♪ ♪ For they're launching a boat on the Tyne at high tide ♪ ♪ And they've come from all over, from far and from wide"" ♪ ♪ There's the old Dalai Lama ♪ ♪ And the pontiff of Rome ♪ ♪ Every palace in Europe, and there's nay bugger home ♪ ♪ There's the Duchess of Cornwall and the loyal Prince of Wales ♪ ♪ Looking crushed and uncomfortable in his top hat and tails ♪ ♪ Well, they haven't got tickets ♪ ♪ Come now, it's just a detail ♪ ♪ There was no time to purchase and one simply has to prevail ♪ ♪ For we'll get to the shipyards or we'll end up in jail! ♪ ♪ When the last ship sails ♪ ♪ Oh the roar of the chains ♪ ♪ And the cracking of timbers ♪ ♪ The noise at the end of the world in your ears ♪ ♪ As a mountain of steel makes its way to the sea ♪ ♪ And the last ship sails ♪ ♪ And whatever you'd promised ♪ ♪ Whatever you've done ♪ ♪ And whatever the station in life you've become ♪ ♪ In the name of the Father, in the name of the Son ♪ ♪ And no matter the weave of this life that you've spun ♪ ♪ On the Earth or in Heaven or under the Sun ♪ ♪ When the last ship sails ♪ ♪ Oh the roar of the chains ♪ ♪ And the cracking of timbers ♪ ♪ The noise at the end of the world in your ears ♪ ♪ As a mountain of steel makes its way to the sea ♪ ♪ And the last ship sails ♪ Thanks very much for listening to my song. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Okay, you have to join in if you know it. (Music) (Applause) ♪ Just a castaway ♪ ♪ An island lost at sea, oh ♪ ♪ Another lonely day ♪ ♪ With no one here but me, oh ♪ ♪ More loneliness than any man could bear ♪ ♪ Rescue me before I fall into despair ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ A year has passed since I wrote my note ♪ ♪ I should have known this right from the start ♪ ♪ Only hope can keep me together ♪ ♪ Love can mend your life ♪ ♪ but love can break your heart ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Walked out this morning ♪ ♪ I don't believe what I saw ♪ ♪ A hundred billion bottles ♪ ♪ Washed up on the shore ♪ ♪ Seems I'm not alone in being alone ♪ ♪ A hundred billion castaways ♪ ♪ Looking for a home ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I'll send an S.O.S. to the world ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ I hope that someone gets my ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ ♪ Message in a bottle ♪ So I'm going to ask you to sing after me, okay, the next part. It's very easy. Sing in unison. Here we go. ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Come on now. Audience: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Sting: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Audience: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Sting: ♪ I'm sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Audience: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Sting: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Audience: ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ Sting: ♪ Sending out ♪ ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ ♪ Sending out an S.O.S. ♪ ♪ Yoooooooo ♪ Thank you, TED. Goodnight. (Applause)"	（音樂）♪ 都寫在福音書上 ♪ ♪ 抹大拉的女孩來看墓 ♪ ♪ 但她一陣天旋地轉 ♪ ♪ 發現墳墓是空的 ♪ ♪ 草巾捲在一旁 ♪ ♪ 屍體無處可見 ♪ ♪ 又黑又冷 ♪ ♪ 她走到門邊 ♪ ♪ 看見一幅鬼景象 ♪ ♪ 有個孤單的身影，戴著神聖的光環 ♪ ♪ 他已漂過各各他 ♪ ♪ 以全能的速度 ♪ ♪ 遵命，但她或許能趕上他 ♪ ♪ 告訴我你去了哪裡，主 ♪ ♪ 為什麼要這麼匆忙 ♪ ♪ 喔不要攔阻我，婦人 ♪♪ 我不能浪費時間 ♪ ♪ 因為明天中午船要下水 ♪ ♪ 我得在破曉前到達 ♪ ♪ 喔我不能不去 ♪ ♪ 大家都在等我 ♪ ♪ 否則還有甚麼理由我主祂自己要讓我復活 ♪ ♪ 沒有甚麼能阻擋我我得乘上風 ♪ ♪ 頂著這風暴 ♪ ♪ 在強風巨噬下 ♪ ♪ 求天使保護我 ♪ ♪ 如果一切終將失敗 ♪ ♪ 最後方舟出航 ♪ ♪ 喔轟鳴的船鏈 ♪ ♪ 霹啪作響的船橫 ♪ ♪ 世界盡頭的聲音在你耳中迴響 ♪ ♪ 如山的鋼鐵駛向海洋 ♪ ♪ 最後方舟出航 ♪ 我出生及成長在造船廠的暗影下，位於英格蘭東北海岸的一個小鎮。我有些最早的記憶，是巨大的船擋住我的街尾，也在一年大部分的時間擋住陽光。小時候每天早上，我看著成千上萬的人走下那座山丘去造船廠工作。我也看著這同一批人每天晚上走路回家。一定要說一下，造船廠並不是令人愉快的好鄰居，也不是工作的好地方。造船廠很吵，很危險具高毒性，有著駭人聽聞的健康及安全記錄。 儘管如此，這些男人女人這些在造船廠工作的人，對於他們的工作仍非常自豪，的確也合情合理。幾艘有史以來在地球上造出的最大的船，就在我的街尾製造出來。 我的祖父是個船台木工，而我小時候，鎮上沒有什麼其他的工作，我帶著幾分焦慮，不知道那會不會也是我的命運。我下定決心不要如此。我有其他的夢想，不見得很實際，但在八歲的時候，我得到一把遺贈的吉他。這個破舊的東西有五根鏽掉的弦，完全走音，但我很快地就學會怎麼彈它，也領悟到，我找到了一個一輩子的朋友，一個同夥，一個同謀在我的計劃中要一同逃出這超現實的工業景觀。 唔，大家都說如果你夠努力夢想，它就會實現。大概吧，要不然就是我非常幸運，但這是我的夢想。我夢想著要離開這個小鎮，就像那些船隻，一但下水，就再也不回頭。我夢想著我要成為寫歌的人，我要唱那些歌給全世界廣大的人群聽。我可以因此賺超大的一筆錢，我會因此成名，而且我還要娶一位美麗的女人，生小孩，養家，在鄉下買一棟大房子，養幾條狗，種點葡萄釀酒，幾個房間裡擺滿了葛萊美獎的獎盃、白金唱片，諸如此類。到目前為止都還不錯，是吧？（笑聲） 然後有一天，我再也沒有靈感寫歌，儘管你以前曾經歷過作家的創作瓶頸，儘管很短，那其實是長期的現象。日復一日，你面對空白的樂譜，什麼都寫不出來，幾天變成幾個禮拜，幾個禮拜變成幾個月，很快地那些月份就累積成幾年，你的努力一點成果都沒有。沒有歌。所以你開始問你自己問題。我做了什麼得罪了神，要如此遺棄我？那收回寫歌的天份是否就跟賞賜一樣容易？或是，也許還有別的——更深沉的心理因素。始終都是浮士德的魔鬼契約吧。你得了報應，因為透露了你內心深處的想法，你把私人的情感搬上舞台為了愉悅別人，讓別人分析檢閱，而或許，你也給了夠多你自己的隱私給別人。 可是，如果你看看你的作品，難道不能說你最好的作品根本與你自己無關，卻是關於別人的？難道你最好的作品不是出產在你放下自我，不再講述你的故事，卻去訴說別人的故事時，或許是個沒有聲音的人，而你以同理心設身處地一陣子，或是以他的眼看世界時？ 大家都說，寫你知道的事。如果你再也寫不出自己的故事，那你還能寫誰的？所以諷刺的是，那片景觀，那片我辛辛苦苦想要逃離的景觀，還有那可說是被我遺棄了從中自我放逐的社區，就是那片景觀，就是那個社區是我必須回去找回失去的靈感的地方。 當我這麼做的時候，當我決定要榮耀我出身的社區，並說出他們的故事的時候，歌曲又開始快速大量地湧現。我曾形容就像是噴吐出來似的，洪流般的點子、人物、聲音、獨唱、主歌、整首歌幾乎整體形成，在我面前具體化，好像它們在我體內按捺了好多好多年似的。我最先寫下的只是一串我認識的人的名字，然後他們變成像是三度空間戲劇裡的角色般，在裡面解釋他們是誰，他們從事什麼，他們的希望他們對未來的恐懼。 這位是傑基‧懷特。他是造船廠的領班。 我的名字是傑基‧懷特，我是廠裡的領班，你不要在這個碼頭惹毛傑基。我就跟鐵板一樣剛硬，大禍要臨頭了！如果你遲到，在我們趁大潮推船出去。現在你可以去死了，盼望去天國，但你得輪完這班，而且我要求你們盡全力支援我們，因為如果聖彼得在天堂的門口問你為什麼你遲到了，哦，你告訴他你得把船造完。我們造戰艦及巡洋艦 為了女王陛下，為歐納西斯造超級油輪，還有各個階級的人，我們要造大噸位的船，是這世界前所未見。 ♪ 唯一值得體驗的生活是在造船廠 ♪ ♪ 堆場有鋼，靈魂是鐵 ♪ ♪ 要變出船 ♪ ♪ 從空空的船殼中 ♪ ♪ 我們不知道還能做什麼 ♪ ♪ 如果船廠被賣了 ♪ ♪ 因為唯一值得體驗的生活是在造船廠 ♪ （掌聲） 所以在決定了要寫關於其他人，而不再寫自己的故事之後，更諷刺的是，有時候你反而顯露出更多的自我，比你打算的還多。這首歌叫《死人之靴》，是一種表達，描述找工作是如何困難；也就是說，你想在造船廠裡找份工作，只能等到有人死了。或是你父親可以在你 15 歲時幫你騙到一份學徒的工作。但有的時後父親的愛會被誤解為控制。另一方面，他兒子的萬丈雄心似乎只是畫餅充飢的幻想。（音樂） ♪ 你看我手上的工作靴 ♪ ♪ 現在應該很合腳了，我兒 ♪ ♪ 拿去吧！那我是給你的禮物 ♪ ♪ 你何不試穿看看？♪ ♪ 這對你老爸有好處，能看見 ♪ ♪ 有一天你穿著這雙靴子走路 ♪ ♪ 在那些人中佔一席之地 ♪ ♪ 那些在造船廠工作的人 ♪ ♪ 這雙死人之靴，雖然又舊又破 ♪ ♪ 當小傢伙需要工作，在世上要有地位 ♪ ♪ 也是男人落地生根的時候了 ♪ ♪ 穿著老爸的舊靴走到河邊 ♪ ♪ 他說：「我就快死了，兒啊，我要你 ♪ ♪ 幫我做最後一件事 ♪ ♪ 你不過是根苗，卻自以為是棵樹 ♪ ♪ 如果你需要種子繁衍後代 ♪ ♪ 你必得先生根 ♪ ♪ 一次一隻腳 ♪ ♪ 穿上死人之靴吧 ♪ ♪ 這雙死人之靴雖然又舊又破 ♪ ♪ 當小傢伙需要工作，在世上要有地位 ♪ ♪ 也是男人落地生根的時候了 ♪ ♪ 穿著老爸的舊靴走到河邊」 ♪ ♪ 我說，「什麼鬼話，我為什麼要做這個？♪ ♪ 我為什麼要答應？」♪ ♪ 我得到的不過就是他的插手 ♪ ♪ 就我記憶所及 ♪ ♪ 這可不是他的慈愛會寵壞我 ♪ ♪ 直到那時，你看 ♪ ♪ 我有自己的計畫我要離開這裡♪ ♪ 當我九月成年 ♪ ♪ 死人之靴知道下山之路 ♪ ♪ 它們會自己走到那兒，它們應該會吧 ♪ ♪ 我有很多選擇，我有很多路 ♪ ♪ 你絕不會看見我穿著這雙死人之靴 ♪ ♪ 憑什麼他會認為 ♪ ♪ 我會樂意最終像他一樣 ♪ ♪ 連兩枚半便士都省不了♪ ♪ 還是只剩破壺兒尿尿？♪ ♪ 他要我像他一樣 ♪ ♪ 這就是他最後的願望？♪ ♪ 他說：「哇勒，你到底想幹什麼？」 ♪ ♪ 我說：「除此之外什麼都好！」♪ ♪ 這雙死人之靴知道下山之路 ♪ ♪ 它們會自己走到那裡，它們應該會吧 ♪ ♪ 但是它們不會跟我走，因為我要去別的地方 ♪ ♪ 我受夠了，我要有發言權 ♪ ♪ 你只剩下牆上的那個十字架 ♪ ♪ 我不要你的東西，我什麼都不要 ♪ ♪ 不要養老金，不要微薄的工資，你的一生只有這條路 ♪ ♪ 腦袋搞清楚，我一點都不像你 ♪ ♪ 我不要再跟你吵了，沒有甚麼好爭的了 ♪ ♪ 你活著絕對看不到我穿著你的死人之靴 ♪ （掌聲） 謝謝。 所以每當有新船下水，他們就會邀請倫敦的顯貴坐火車來演講，在船艏擊破香檳酒瓶，滑下船台進入河流再出海。偶爾在非常重要的船上，他們會找皇室家族成員來，菲利普親王、安妮公主或其他人。你要記住，直到不久前，大家還相信英國的皇室有奇妙的醫治能力。生病的孩子會在人群中被舉起來，試圖觸摸國王或女王的皇袍，以醫治他們身上可怕的疾病。我生長的年代已經不像這樣了，但是我們還是會很興奮。 所以那是下水的日子，是個星期六，媽媽幫我穿上星期日去教堂的盛裝。我不太高興她這麼做。所有的孩子都在街上，我們手上有國旗要揮舞，在山頂上，摩托車隊出現。在摩托車隊中間，有一輛又大又黑的勞斯萊斯。在這輛勞斯萊斯裡的是皇太后。這可是件大事。所以隊伍行進著，以莊嚴的速度駛向我的大街，當這個隊伍接近我的房子，我就開始大力揮舞我的小國旗，皇太后來了。我看到她，她似乎也看到我了。她跟我打了個招呼。揮揮手，微笑著。而我就更大力地揮舞我的小國旗。這是屬於我倆的時刻，我和皇太后。她和我打招呼！然後她就走了。 嗯，我什麼都沒被醫治。正好相反，說真的。我被感染了。我被一個想法感染。我不屬於這條街。我不想住在那個房子裡。我不想在造船廠終了一生。我要坐在那部車裡。（笑聲）我要更寬廣的人生。我要在鎮外生活。我要一個不平凡的人生。這是我的權利。這是我的權利，不亞於她。所以現在我在 TED 講台上，我應該告訴你們那個故事，我想這麼說很恰當，很明顯共生且本質相通的連繫存在於說故事與社區間，在社區與藝術間，在社區及科技間，在社區及經濟間，這是我的信念，就是抽象的經濟理論否定社區的需求，或否定社區對經濟的貢獻，是短視、殘忍，也站不住腳的。 （掌聲） 事實是，無論你是搖滾明星，還是造船廠的銲工，或是亞馬遜上游的部落一員，或是英國女王，在一生的終了，我們終歸要踏上死亡之船。 ♪ 遵命，侍從們在憤慨中紛亂著 ♪ ♪ 你看女王自己搭計程車去車站 ♪ ♪ 腳夫驚訝她沒有皇家行李 ♪ ♪ 趕忙請她及柯基犬坐上車廂後排 ♪ ♪ 因為那輛火車塞滿了歐洲貴族 ♪ ♪ 他們可是有名的水火不容 ♪ ♪ 有人為搶座位爭鬥 ♪ ♪ 「很抱歉，閣下♪ ♪ 那個座位是我的，滾回去你的位子！」 ♪ ♪ 「遵命，但是他們要去哪裡？」 ♪ ♪ 所有的腳夫都在爭論 ♪ ♪ 「哦他們要去新堡，他們可不敢遲到 ♪ ♪ 因為大潮時他們有新船要在泰恩河下水♪ ♪ 他們從各地來，四面八方來」♪ ♪ 有老達賴喇嘛 ♪ ♪ 有羅馬教皇 ♪ ♪ 歐洲的每一座城堡，還有反對混蛋的家 ♪ ♪ 有康沃爾公爵夫人，而威爾斯親王 ♪ ♪ 在他的高禮帽和燕尾服下看起來垮垮很不舒服 ♪ ♪ 嗯他們還沒拿到票 ♪ ♪ 來吧，那是細節問題 ♪ ♪ 沒時間買票你得乘上風 ♪ ♪ 因為我們要到造船廠不然就會進監牢！♪ ♪ 最後方舟出航 ♪ ♪ 喔轟鳴的船鏈 ♪ ♪ 劈啪作響的船橫 ♪ ♪ 世界盡頭的聲音在你耳中迴響 ♪ ♪ 如山的鋼鐵駛向海洋 ♪ ♪ 最後方舟出航 ♪ ♪ 無論你承諾過什麼 ♪ ♪ 無論你做過什麼 ♪ ♪ 無論你變成什麼身分 ♪ ♪ 以父之名，以子之名 ♪ ♪ 無論你這輩子編織出什麼樣的人生 ♪ ♪ 在地上在天上或在日光之下 ♪ ♪ 當最後方舟出航 ♪ ♪ 喔轟鳴的船鏈 ♪ ♪ 劈啪作響的船橫 ♪ ♪ 世界盡頭的聲音在你耳中迴響 ♪ ♪ 如山的鋼鐵駛向海洋 ♪ ♪ 最後方舟出航 ♪ 謝謝你們聽我唱歌。謝謝。（掌聲） 謝謝。 好吧，如果你們知道這首歌，就要一起唱。（音樂）（掌聲） ♪ 只是個漂流的人 ♪ ♪ 海中迷失的小島，喔 ♪ ♪ 又是寂寞的一天 ♪ ♪ 沒有別人只有我，喔 ♪ ♪ 更多寂寞，超過任何人能忍受 ♪ ♪ 拯救我吧在我絕望前 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 一年過了，自我寫信以來 ♪ ♪ 從一開始就該明瞭 ♪ ♪ 只有盼望能讓我不崩潰 ♪ ♪ 愛能修補生命 ♪ ♪ 但愛也能使你心碎 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 一早走到外面 ♪ ♪ 不敢相信我眼所見 ♪ ♪ 千千萬萬個瓶子 ♪ ♪ 沖到岸上 ♪ ♪ 好像我不是一個人在獨處 ♪ ♪ 千千萬萬個漂流的人 ♪ ♪ 尋找棲身之處 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 我會發出求救信號給這世界 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 希望有人看見我的 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ ♪ 瓶中信 ♪ 我要你們跟我一起唱好，下一段。很簡單，同聲齊唱。開始。 ♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 一起來。 觀眾：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 史汀：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 眾：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 史：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 眾：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 史：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 眾：♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ 史：♪ 發出 ♪ ♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ ♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ ♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ ♪ 發出求救信號 ♪ ♪ 唷 ♪ 謝謝 TED 。晚安。 （掌聲）
