Talk	en	zh-tw
stuart_firestein_the_pursuit_of_ignorance	"There is an ancient proverb that says it's very difficult to find a black cat in a dark room, especially when there is no cat. I find this a particularly apt description of science and how science works — bumbling around in a dark room, bumping into things, trying to figure out what shape this might be, what that might be, there are reports of a cat somewhere around, they may not be reliable, they may be, and so forth and so on. Now I know this is different than the way most people think about science. Science, we generally are told, is a very well-ordered mechanism for understanding the world, for gaining facts, for gaining data, that it's rule-based, that scientists use this thing called the scientific method and we've been doing this for 14 generations or so now, and the scientific method is a set of rules for getting hard, cold facts out of the data. I'd like to tell you that's not the case. So there's the scientific method, but what's really going on is this. (Laughter) [The Scientific Method vs. Farting Around] And it's going on kind of like that. [... in the dark] (Laughter) So what is the difference, then, between the way I believe science is pursued and the way it seems to be perceived? So this difference first came to me in some ways in my dual role at Columbia University, where I'm both a professor and run a laboratory in neuroscience where we try to figure out how the brain works. We do this by studying the sense of smell, the sense of olfaction, and in the laboratory, it's a great pleasure and fascinating work and exciting to work with graduate students and post-docs and think up cool experiments to understand how this sense of smell works and how the brain might be working, and, well, frankly, it's kind of exhilarating. But at the same time, it's my responsibility to teach a large course to undergraduates on the brain, and that's a big subject, and it takes quite a while to organize that, and it's quite challenging and it's quite interesting, but I have to say, it's not so exhilarating. So what was the difference? Well, the course I was and am teaching is called Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience - I. (Laughs) It's 25 lectures full of all sorts of facts, it uses this giant book called ""Principles of Neural Science"" by three famous neuroscientists. This book comes in at 1,414 pages, it weighs a hefty seven and a half pounds. Just to put that in some perspective, that's the weight of two normal human brains. (Laughter) So I began to realize, by the end of this course, that the students maybe were getting the idea that we must know everything there is to know about the brain. That's clearly not true. And they must also have this idea, I suppose, that what scientists do is collect data and collect facts and stick them in these big books. And that's not really the case either. When I go to a meeting, after the meeting day is over and we collect in the bar over a couple of beers with my colleagues, we never talk about what we know. We talk about what we don't know. We talk about what still has to get done, what's so critical to get done in the lab. Indeed, this was, I think, best said by Marie Curie who said that one never notices what has been done but only what remains to be done. This was in a letter to her brother after obtaining her second graduate degree, I should say. I have to point out this has always been one of my favorite pictures of Marie Curie, because I am convinced that that glow behind her is not a photographic effect. (Laughter) That's the real thing. It is true that her papers are, to this day, stored in a basement room in the Bibliothèque Française in a concrete room that's lead-lined, and if you're a scholar and you want access to these notebooks, you have to put on a full radiation hazmat suit, so it's pretty scary business. Nonetheless, this is what I think we were leaving out of our courses and leaving out of the interaction that we have with the public as scientists, the what-remains-to-be-done. This is the stuff that's exhilarating and interesting. It is, if you will, the ignorance. That's what was missing. So I thought, well, maybe I should teach a course on ignorance, something I can finally excel at, perhaps, for example. So I did start teaching this course on ignorance, and it's been quite interesting and I'd like to tell you to go to the website. You can find all sorts of information there. It's wide open. And it's been really quite an interesting time for me to meet up with other scientists who come in and talk about what it is they don't know. Now I use this word ""ignorance,"" of course, to be at least in part intentionally provocative, because ignorance has a lot of bad connotations and I clearly don't mean any of those. So I don't mean stupidity, I don't mean a callow indifference to fact or reason or data. The ignorant are clearly unenlightened, unaware, uninformed, and present company today excepted, often occupy elected offices, it seems to me. That's another story, perhaps. I mean a different kind of ignorance. I mean a kind of ignorance that's less pejorative, a kind of ignorance that comes from a communal gap in our knowledge, something that's just not there to be known or isn't known well enough yet or we can't make predictions from, the kind of ignorance that's maybe best summed up in a statement by James Clerk Maxwell, perhaps the greatest physicist between Newton and Einstein, who said, ""Thoroughly conscious ignorance is the prelude to every real advance in science."" I think it's a wonderful idea: thoroughly conscious ignorance. So that's the kind of ignorance that I want to talk about today, but of course the first thing we have to clear up is what are we going to do with all those facts? So it is true that science piles up at an alarming rate. We all have this sense that science is this mountain of facts, this accumulation model of science, as many have called it, and it seems impregnable, it seems impossible. How can you ever know all of this? And indeed, the scientific literature grows at an alarming rate. In 2006, there were 1.3 million papers published. There's about a two-and-a-half-percent yearly growth rate, and so last year we saw over one and a half million papers being published. Divide that by the number of minutes in a year, and you wind up with three new papers per minute. So I've been up here a little over 10 minutes, I've already lost three papers. I have to get out of here actually. I have to go read. So what do we do about this? Well, the fact is that what scientists do about it is a kind of a controlled neglect, if you will. We just don't worry about it, in a way. The facts are important. You have to know a lot of stuff to be a scientist. That's true. But knowing a lot of stuff doesn't make you a scientist. You need to know a lot of stuff to be a lawyer or an accountant or an electrician or a carpenter. But in science, knowing a lot of stuff is not the point. Knowing a lot of stuff is there to help you get to more ignorance. So knowledge is a big subject, but I would say ignorance is a bigger one. So this leads us to maybe think about, a little bit about, some of the models of science that we tend to use, and I'd like to disabuse you of some of them. So one of them, a popular one, is that scientists are patiently putting the pieces of a puzzle together to reveal some grand scheme or another. This is clearly not true. For one, with puzzles, the manufacturer has guaranteed that there's a solution. We don't have any such guarantee. Indeed, there are many of us who aren't so sure about the manufacturer. (Laughter) So I think the puzzle model doesn't work. Another popular model is that science is busy unraveling things the way you unravel the peels of an onion. So peel by peel, you take away the layers of the onion to get at some fundamental kernel of truth. I don't think that's the way it works either. Another one, a kind of popular one, is the iceberg idea, that we only see the tip of the iceberg but underneath is where most of the iceberg is hidden. But all of these models are based on the idea of a large body of facts that we can somehow or another get completed. We can chip away at this iceberg and figure out what it is, or we could just wait for it to melt, I suppose, these days, but one way or another we could get to the whole iceberg. Right? Or make it manageable. But I don't think that's the case. I think what really happens in science is a model more like the magic well, where no matter how many buckets you take out, there's always another bucket of water to be had, or my particularly favorite one, with the effect and everything, the ripples on a pond. So if you think of knowledge being this ever-expanding ripple on a pond, the important thing to realize is that our ignorance, the circumference of this knowledge, also grows with knowledge. So the knowledge generates ignorance. This is really well said, I thought, by George Bernard Shaw. This is actually part of a toast that he delivered to celebrate Einstein at a dinner celebrating Einstein's work, in which he claims that science just creates more questions than it answers. [""Science is always wrong. It never solves a problem without creating 10 more.""] I find that kind of glorious, and I think he's precisely right, plus it's a kind of job security. As it turns out, he kind of cribbed that from the philosopher Immanuel Kant who a hundred years earlier had come up with this idea of question propagation, that every answer begets more questions. I love that term, ""question propagation,"" this idea of questions propagating out there. So I'd say the model we want to take is not that we start out kind of ignorant and we get some facts together and then we gain knowledge. It's rather kind of the other way around, really. What do we use this knowledge for? What are we using this collection of facts for? We're using it to make better ignorance, to come up with, if you will, higher-quality ignorance. Because, you know, there's low-quality ignorance and there's high-quality ignorance. It's not all the same. Scientists argue about this all the time. Sometimes we call them bull sessions. Sometimes we call them grant proposals. But nonetheless, it's what the argument is about. It's the ignorance. It's the what we don't know. It's what makes a good question. So how do we think about these questions? I'm going to show you a graph that shows up quite a bit on happy hour posters in various science departments. This graph asks the relationship between what you know and how much you know about it. So what you know, you can know anywhere from nothing to everything, of course, and how much you know about it can be anywhere from a little to a lot. So let's put a point on the graph. There's an undergraduate. Doesn't know much but they have a lot of interest. They're interested in almost everything. Now you look at a master's student, a little further along in their education, and you see they know a bit more, but it's been narrowed somewhat. And finally you get your Ph.D., where it turns out you know a tremendous amount about almost nothing. (Laughter) What's really disturbing is the trend line that goes through that because, of course, when it dips below the zero axis, there, it gets into a negative area. That's where you find people like me, I'm afraid. So the important thing here is that this can all be changed. This whole view can be changed by just changing the label on the x-axis. So instead of how much you know about it, we could say, ""What can you ask about it?"" So yes, you do need to know a lot of stuff as a scientist, but the purpose of knowing a lot of stuff is not just to know a lot of stuff. That just makes you a geek, right? Knowing a lot of stuff, the purpose is to be able to ask lots of questions, to be able to frame thoughtful, interesting questions, because that's where the real work is. Let me give you a quick idea of a couple of these sorts of questions. I'm a neuroscientist, so how would we come up with a question in neuroscience? Because it's not always quite so straightforward. So, for example, we could say, well what is it that the brain does? Well, one thing the brain does, it moves us around. We walk around on two legs. That seems kind of simple, somehow or another. I mean, virtually everybody over 10 months of age walks around on two legs, right? So that maybe is not that interesting. So instead maybe we want to choose something a little more complicated to look at. How about the visual system? There it is, the visual system. I mean, we love our visual systems. We do all kinds of cool stuff. Indeed, there are over 12,000 neuroscientists who work on the visual system, from the retina to the visual cortex, in an attempt to understand not just the visual system but to also understand how general principles of how the brain might work. But now here's the thing: Our technology has actually been pretty good at replicating what the visual system does. We have TV, we have movies, we have animation, we have photography, we have pattern recognition, all of these sorts of things. They work differently than our visual systems in some cases, but nonetheless we've been pretty good at making a technology work like our visual system. Somehow or another, a hundred years of robotics, you never saw a robot walk on two legs, because robots don't walk on two legs because it's not such an easy thing to do. A hundred years of robotics, and we can't get a robot that can move more than a couple steps one way or the other. You ask them to go up an inclined plane, and they fall over. Turn around, and they fall over. It's a serious problem. So what is it that's the most difficult thing for a brain to do? What ought we to be studying? Perhaps it ought to be walking on two legs, or the motor system. I'll give you an example from my own lab, my own particularly smelly question, since we work on the sense of smell. But here's a diagram of five molecules and sort of a chemical notation. These are just plain old molecules, but if you sniff those molecules up these two little holes in the front of your face, you will have in your mind the distinct impression of a rose. If there's a real rose there, those molecules will be the ones, but even if there's no rose there, you'll have the memory of a molecule. How do we turn molecules into perceptions? What's the process by which that could happen? Here's another example: two very simple molecules, again in this kind of chemical notation. It might be easier to visualize them this way, so the gray circles are carbon atoms, the white ones are hydrogen atoms and the red ones are oxygen atoms. Now these two molecules differ by only one carbon atom and two little hydrogen atoms that ride along with it, and yet one of them, heptyl acetate, has the distinct odor of a pear, and hexyl acetate is unmistakably banana. So there are two really interesting questions here, it seems to me. One is, how can a simple little molecule like that create a perception in your brain that's so clear as a pear or a banana? And secondly, how the hell can we tell the difference between two molecules that differ by a single carbon atom? I mean, that's remarkable to me, clearly the best chemical detector on the face of the planet. And you don't even think about it, do you? So this is a favorite quote of mine that takes us back to the ignorance and the idea of questions. I like to quote because I think dead people shouldn't be excluded from the conversation. And I also think it's important to realize that the conversation's been going on for a while, by the way. So Erwin Schrodinger, a great quantum physicist and, I think, philosopher, points out how you have to ""abide by ignorance for an indefinite period"" of time. And it's this abiding by ignorance that I think we have to learn how to do. This is a tricky thing. This is not such an easy business. I guess it comes down to our education system, so I'm going to talk a little bit about ignorance and education, because I think that's where it really has to play out. So for one, let's face it, in the age of Google and Wikipedia, the business model of the university and probably secondary schools is simply going to have to change. We just can't sell facts for a living anymore. They're available with a click of the mouse, or if you want to, you could probably just ask the wall one of these days, wherever they're going to hide the things that tell us all this stuff. So what do we have to do? We have to give our students a taste for the boundaries, for what's outside that circumference, for what's outside the facts, what's just beyond the facts. How do we do that? Well, one of the problems, of course, turns out to be testing. We currently have an educational system which is very efficient but is very efficient at a rather bad thing. So in second grade, all the kids are interested in science, the girls and the boys. They like to take stuff apart. They have great curiosity. They like to investigate things. They go to science museums. They like to play around. They're in second grade. They're interested. But by 11th or 12th grade, fewer than 10 percent of them have any interest in science whatsoever, let alone a desire to go into science as a career. So we have this remarkably efficient system for beating any interest in science out of everybody's head. Is this what we want? I think this comes from what a teacher colleague of mine calls ""the bulimic method of education."" You know. You can imagine what it is. We just jam a whole bunch of facts down their throats over here and then they puke it up on an exam over here and everybody goes home with no added intellectual heft whatsoever. This can't possibly continue to go on. So what do we do? Well the geneticists, I have to say, have an interesting maxim they live by. Geneticists always say, you always get what you screen for. And that's meant as a warning. So we always will get what we screen for, and part of what we screen for is in our testing methods. Well, we hear a lot about testing and evaluation, and we have to think carefully when we're testing whether we're evaluating or whether we're weeding, whether we're weeding people out, whether we're making some cut. Evaluation is one thing. You hear a lot about evaluation in the literature these days, in the educational literature, but evaluation really amounts to feedback and it amounts to an opportunity for trial and error. It amounts to a chance to work over a longer period of time with this kind of feedback. That's different than weeding, and usually, I have to tell you, when people talk about evaluation, evaluating students, evaluating teachers, evaluating schools, evaluating programs, that they're really talking about weeding. And that's a bad thing, because then you will get what you select for, which is what we've gotten so far. So I'd say what we need is a test that says, ""What is x?"" and the answers are ""I don't know, because no one does,"" or ""What's the question?"" Even better. Or, ""You know what, I'll look it up, I'll ask someone, I'll phone someone. I'll find out."" Because that's what we want people to do, and that's how you evaluate them. And maybe for the advanced placement classes, it could be, ""Here's the answer. What's the next question?"" That's the one I like in particular. So let me end with a quote from William Butler Yeats, who said ""Education is not about filling buckets; it is lighting fires."" So I'd say, let's get out the matches. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	有句古老的諺語這麼說：「在一片漆黑的房間裡，是很難找出一隻黑貓的，特別當房間裡根本沒有貓的時候。」我覺得將這句話用來形容科學和科學運作的方式，是非常貼切的。科學探索就像在漆黑的房間裡亂竄，然後撞到了某些東西，試圖了解這個東西是什麼形態，那個東西又可能是什麼。有報告說一隻貓就在附近，這消息可能不是真的，也可能是真的，就這樣反反覆覆。 這樣的說法跟大多數人對科學的印象不一樣。一般我們對「科學」的理解，就是一套高度秩序化的機制，用以解釋世界的種種現象，得到事實和數據。一切都有規則，科學家們運用「科學方法」做研究，至今已有約14代人 (420年)，而「科學方法」就是「一套規則，用來從數據中得到客觀確鑿的事實。」 這裡我告訴大家，並不是這麼回事。「科學方法」是存在的，但實際發生的事情是…...(笑聲) [科學方法 vs 狗屁瞎扯] 實際的狀況大概像這樣： [.....在黑暗中放狗屁](笑聲) 所以，差別在哪裡呢？我所相信的科學真諦，為何與科學在人們心目中的印象如此不同？我第一次意識到兩者的差異，是在哥倫比亞大學身兼兩職的時候。我當時既當教授，也主持神經科學的實驗室研究，研究目的是找出腦部運作的原理。我們的實驗室以研究氣味感知和人類嗅覺為切入點。在實驗室，這可是非常吸引人而有趣的工作，我很高興能與那些碩士研究生和博士後共事，一起設計有趣的實驗方法來去瞭解嗅覺如何運作，以及去瞭解大腦相應地如何運作。老實說，這项研究相當振奮我心。 但同時我也身兼教職，我要教本科生關於腦科學的一門大課，這可是個大工程，我花了很多工夫設計課程內容，是個很有挑戰性也很有趣的工作。但我得說，設計課程並沒有為我帶來振奮感。為什麼呢？差別在哪？那時到現在我一直在教的這門課，叫做「細胞和分子神經學」——壹。(笑聲)25堂課，介紹各種研究結果，教材是這本鴻篇巨制：「神經科學原理」，由三位著名的神經科學家共同編撰。全書共1414頁，重達7.6英磅，給大家一個概念，這本書的重量相當於兩個正常人類的大腦。 (笑聲) 於是我開始意識到，當學生們修完了這門課，他們也許會認為，要瞭解大腦，得先把現有知識全吸收盡才行。這想法顯然是不對的。我猜他們一定也有這個想法，科學家的工作就只是收集數據和事實，再訂到這樣的厚重教科書裡。這同樣也不是事實。我去參加研討會，會議結束之後，我和同事們一起聚在酒吧裡喝上幾瓶啤酒，我們談論的話題，從來就不是已知的研究成果，而是那些我們還不知道的東西。我們討論還有什麼問題需要研究，什麼是實驗室下一步的重點工作。事實上，我認為，居里夫人給出了最好的詮釋：「不應該只著眼於自己完成了什麼，而應該看到還有什麼需要完成。」這句話出自居里夫人寫給哥哥的信中，那時她剛拿到第二個碩士學位。 我要指出，這一直是我最喜愛的居里夫人的照片之一。原因是，我確信她身後的光芒不是電腦特效。(笑聲)那一定是真的在發光。居里夫人的手稿，直到現在都還保存在法國國家圖書館的地下貯藏室裡。貯藏室的牆壁以水泥砌成，中間埋鉛以防輻射。如果你以學者的身份申請查閱這些筆記，就得先穿上全套的輻射防護服，這是頗嚇人的過程。 不過，我認為她的精神恰恰是我們的課程所欠缺的，也是我們這些科學家在與大眾互動時所欠缺的，即「還有什麼需要完成」。這是令人振奮和有趣的東西。如果你願意，可以叫它「無知」。這就是我們目前欠缺的。 於是我想，或許我應該開一門課來討論「無知」，或許，這才是我真正擅長的。於是我真的去開了這門討論「無知」的課，得到很有趣的結果。我架設了網站，大家可以去看看，你能在網站裡找到各式各樣的資訊，它是完全開放的。我很享受在網站上和其他科學家一起切磋討論這些未知的、等待探索的領域。 當然，我現在使用「無知」這個詞，聽起來好像有些惡意挑釁的意味，因為「無知」有很多負面意思，但它們都不是我的本意。我指的不是愚笨，也並非是指冷漠看待事實、推理或數據。這種「無知」是未被啟蒙的，沒意識到的，不接收資訊，像今日大家認為的大公司裡頭坐滿我們選出的官員，我是這麼想的。這大概又是另一個議題了。 我所指的「無知」是另一種意義的無知。它不包含那麼多的負面意義，而是說我們在知識上共同的差距，一些我們還沒有瞭解的東西，或者瞭解得還不夠的東西，或者我們無法預知的東西。用一言以蔽之，這句話是詹姆士‧克拉克‧麥斯威爾說的，他大概是牛頓和愛因斯坦之間最偉大的物理學家，他說過：「完全自覺自醒的無知是每一次科學的實質性進步的前奏。」我認為他提出了很棒的看法：「完全自覺自醒的無知」 也是我今天要探討的「無知」。不過首先我們得弄清楚該如何對待現有的研究成果？各式各樣的科學研究成果以驚人的速率被提出，讓我們覺得科學似乎就等於這座研究成果堆成的高山。科學的這種積累模式，就象很多人說的，它似乎堅不可摧，也似乎不可企及一個人怎麼能完全瞭解這裡頭所有的知識？事實上，科學文獻在以驚人的速度增長。2006年發表的科學論文總計130萬篇，年增長率約2.5%。去年，我們看到有150萬篇論文發表，這個數值除以一年的總分鐘數，意味著每分鐘就有三篇論文發表。我站在這裡超過十分鐘了，已經錯過了三篇論文沒讀(*講者計算有誤 他會錯過三十篇)我得離開這裡，趕緊去讀那些論文呢。 我們拿這些研究成果怎麼辦呢？事實上，科學家的工作也是某種程度的控制下的忽視。可以說，我們根本不去操這份心。研究成果固然重要，你要知道很多東西，才能成為科學家，這點沒錯。但知識淵博並不能使你成為科學家。要作律師也得掌握很多知識，作會計師、電工、木匠亦然。在科學領域裡，知識淵博並不是重點。知道的多是為了讓你更好地去探索「無知」。我要說，知識是個重要的議題，但「無知」更為重要。 這或許能讓我們想到，多多少少想到一些常用來類比科學的模型。我要糾正你們對這些模型的錯誤看法。當中一個很受歡迎的理論是，科學家們將一片片拼圖耐心組合，去揭示一個又一個重大的發現。這顯然不是那麼回事。首先，說到拼圖，廠家能保證你一定能做出完整的圖案。而我們對科學研究卻沒法打保票。事實上，我們中的很多人對廠家也不太有信心。 (笑聲) 所以我認為拼圖模型是說不通的。 另一個受歡迎的模型是，科學就是忙著解開層層謎題，就像剝洋蔥一樣。一層接著一層，你剝開洋蔥的皮，最後得到核心真相。我也不認為科學是這樣運作的。另一種理論，也蠻有名的，就是冰山模型：我們所見只是冰山一角，水面之下隱藏的冰山才占絕大部分。這些模型都基於同一個理念，即存在一個龐大的知識體系，我們能夠通過這樣那樣的方法使之完善。我們可以鏟開冰山，去研究它究竟是怎麼回事，或者以現今的氣候，等它融化就好。但不論如何我們都能看透冰山的全貌，對吧？或讓它變得可控。但我不這麼認為。我認為科學真正的模型更接近一座魔法水井，不論你從井中打了多少桶水，都還能再打出一桶。還有一個我特別鍾愛的模型，考慮到種種影響和元素，科學就像是池塘裡的漣漪。如果把知識比作池塘裡不斷漾開的漣漪，那麼重要的是要意識到我們的「無知」，就像漣漪的圓周長一樣，隨著知識的擴大而不斷擴展。知識產生「無知」。蕭伯納說過一句很棒的話，他在慶祝愛因斯坦工作成績的晚宴上為愛因斯坦致祝酒詞，他認為，與其說科學在解決問題，不如說是在製造問題。[科學總是錯的。每當解決了一個問題，它總是製造出十個新的問題。] 我覺得這真是至理名言了。他說的一點沒錯。這也說明了我們永遠不會失業。後來發現，這可能是借鑒了哲學家康德的理念。早在一百年前，康德就提出了「問題相生」的概念，每個答案都會帶來更多的問題。我喜歡「 問題相生」這個術語，這個「問題會衍生問題」的概念。 所以我要說，我們想採用的模型，並不是要從無知開始，共同找到一些現象，然後獲得獲得某種知識。實際情況正好相反。現有的知識有什麼用？至今收集到的事實有什麼用？我們要用它們來得到更好的「無知」，得到「高品質的無知」。因為有低品質的無知，相對也有高品質的，兩者並不相同。科學家們總是為此爭論。有時我們稱它為鬥牛大會，有時我們稱它為申請研究基金。無論是哪個，我們爭論的點都是相同的，那就是「無知」，什麼是我們不知道的，怎樣才是一個好問題。 我們又怎麼看待這些問題呢？給大家看一張圖，它經常被各個科學部門用來做聚會的海報。這個圖表探討「你知道什麼」和「你瞭解多少」兩者之間的關係。「你知道什麼」，你可以從一無所知到無所不知；「你瞭解多少」，則可以從只瞭解一點點到瞭解很多。讓我們在這張圖表上畫一個點，這是一名大學生。瞭解程度不高，但有很多的興趣。他們幾乎對什麼事都感興趣。現在來看一個碩士生，因為他受教育的時間更長，所以他們瞭解程度更高，但知識面變窄了。接下來終於你拿到博士學位了，結果…瞭解很深，但知識面近乎為零。（笑聲）令人困擾的是穿越這些點的趨勢線，因為當它達到零以下，這個地方，它就進入了負值區域，恐怕我這樣的人都在那兒了。 不過，重要的是這都可以改變。整個觀點可以變得截然不同，只要把 X 軸的標籤改掉就好了。我們把「你瞭解多少」的標籤換成「你能問出什麼」。當然，作為一名科學家確實需要知識淵博，但吸收大量知識的目的並不在於獲得各種知識，以致成為技客。吸收大量知識是為了能提出很多問題，能架構出深思熟慮的、有趣的問題，而才是真正的科學工作。 我給大家舉兩個例子。我是一名神經科學家，在神經學這個領域，我們是如何提出問題的呢？情況並不是總是直截了當的。比如，我們可以問，大腦到底起什麼作用？大腦的一項功能是指揮身體行動，讓我們以雙腳行走。這似乎太簡單了。幾乎每個年齡超過10個月的人都能以雙腳行走，對吧？所以說這個問題沒什麼意思。所以我們可能會選擇提出一些更複雜些的問題去研究。視覺系統怎麼樣？好，就選視覺系統了。我們喜歡視覺系統，可以搞很酷的研究。事實上，有超過一萬兩千名神經學家以視覺系統為研究對象，從視網膜到視覺皮層，這些研究不僅僅是局限在視覺系統，還包括如何通過視覺系統研究去瞭解大腦是如何運作的普遍原理。但目前的情況是：我們現在擁有很好的複製視覺系統的技術。我們有電視，我們有電影，我們有動畫，我們有攝影，我們有模型識別技術，很多其他的這一類技術。有些視覺技術的工作原理和視覺系統不大一樣。儘管如此，我們現有的視覺技術已經與視覺系統非常近似了。但是，機器人技術的發展已經有一百年了，你還沒見過一個用兩條腿走路的機器人。因為機器人不是用兩條腿走路的，這可不是一件易事。一百年的機器人技術發展，我們甚至不能讓機器人走上一兩步。你讓機器人走個斜面試試，它們肯定會摔倒。讓它們轉身，它們也會摔倒。這是個科技上的難題。那麼，對大腦來說，什麼是最難完成的任務呢？我們必需要研究的是什麼？或許是研究以雙腳走路，或動力系統。我給你們舉個我自己實驗室的例子，我的實驗小組研究嗅覺系統，於是設法找出嗅覺方面的問題。這張圖裡有五個分子，和它們的化學式。這都是些最普通的分子了，但如果你用你臉上這兩個小洞洞來聞聞那些分子的話，你的腦海中會出現一朵玫瑰的鮮明印象。如果說真的有玫瑰的話，那些分子就是「玫瑰」。但即使沒有玫瑰，你也會有關於這些分子的記憶。我們怎麼將這些分子轉化為知覺？會發生什麼樣的轉變過程？再舉一個例子，這是兩個簡單的分子化學式。或許這樣看比較容易想像，灰色圓圈代表碳原子，白色圓圈代表氫原子，紅色圓圈代表氧原子。那麼這兩個分子式的差別就在於一個碳原子和兩個與之相連的氫原子，其中一個分子叫乙酸庚酯帶著特殊的梨的氣味。(另一個是)醋酸己酯，卻有一種明顯的香蕉氣味。這裡我發現兩個有趣的問題其一，如此一個簡單的小分子是如何在你的腦海裡建立起如此清晰的認識讓你輕鬆辨別出一顆梨，或一條香蕉？其二，為什麼我們能辨別出兩者的差異兩個分子僅僅只有一個碳原子鍵的不同而已。這是對我意義重大的發現，地球上最精密的化學探測器，顯然長在我們臉上。你甚至從來都沒想過這些，對吧？ 讓我用我喜愛的名言拉回主題「無知」和「提出問題」我喜愛引用名人名言，因為我覺得死者也應該參與這樣的討論。而我也認為有必要彰顯出這個討論已經存在好一段時間了。薛定諤，偉大的量子物理學家，我覺得他也是哲學家，他指出你必須「保持無知，以面對浩瀚無垠的時間」而我們要學習的課題，就是怎麼「保持無知」。這是個棘手的問題，並非易事。 我想得從我們的教育系統探討起，這裡我談一點「無知」和教育間的關係，因為我認為必需教導「無知」的概念。首先，讓我們面對現實，這是個 Google 和維基百科的時代，大學的運營模式，甚至是我們的中學，真的都需要一些實質的改變。我們真的不能光靠販賣「事實」為生了。學生們動一動滑鼠就能得資訊，如果你想，大概敲牆問一問也行。現今社會中，不管你把東西藏在哪裡，科技都能讓你無所遁形。 那我們得做什麼？我們得告訴我們的學生，探索邊界的滋味，漣漪之外有什麼，事實之外是什麼，事實背後有什麼。 我們應該怎麼做？當然，我們一定會遇到的困難之一就是考試。我們目前的教育體系很高效，但效率的指向並不好。所有上二年級的孩子都對科學感興趣，無論女孩還是男孩，都喜歡拆解東西來研究，好奇心強烈，喜歡做調查，參觀科學博物館，喜歡四處玩耍。這就是二年級生的情況，他們對什麼都感興趣。但到了高中二年級或三年級，只剩不到10%的學生還對科學抱持興趣，更別提想從事科學方面的工作了。我們有個極其高效的系統來打擊孩子們對於科學的興致。 這是我們想要的嗎？我的一位大學老師同事把這叫做「填鴨式教育」大家都知道，能想像出那是什麼情形。我們只是在把一大堆事實塞進他們的喉嚨裡，然後在考試的時候讓他們吐出來，沒有一個學生真正帶著知識回家。 我們不能這樣繼續下去了。那我們該怎麼辦？我得說，遺傳學家他們中流傳著很有趣的格言。遺傳學家總說：「你總能得到想要篩選出來的結果。」我們可以把這句話當成警告。我們總能得到想要篩選出來的結果。我們想要篩選出來的結果部分存在於考試方法中。我們已經聽過太多的測試呀，評估呀，當我們實際去測試時，我們得想清楚是在做評估還是要做淘汰，是否在做淘汰，是否在做精簡。評估是一回事。近來在教育學的文獻中，有許多關於做評估的，但評估其實意味著回饋，意味著給試驗和犯錯提供機會。它意味著在更長的期間裡，利用這些回饋的機會。這跟淘汰是不同的。我要告訴大家，通常當人們談到評估，評估學生，評估老師，評估學校，評估專案，他們真正的意思是淘汰。這就不是什麼好事了。因為你會得到你想選擇的，這也是我們的現狀。 我認為我們需要這樣的測驗，問「什麼是X」回答則是「我不知道，因為沒人知道。」或「問題是什麼？」這樣更好。或「知道嗎？我會查一下，我會去問問別人。我會打幾個電話。我會找出答案。」而這才是我們希望人們去做的，這才是做評估的方式。對一些優等生班，答案可能是：「這是答案，下一個問題是什麼？」這是我特別喜歡的一個問題。 請讓我以葉慈的話來結束我的演講。他說：「教育並不是注滿水桶，而是點燃火種。」 讓我們拿出火柴吧！謝謝大家。 (掌聲) 謝謝。(掌聲)
