Talk	en	zh-tw
sue_desmond_hellmann_a_smarter_more_precise_way_to_think_about_public_health	"OK, first, some introductions. My mom, Jennie, took this picture. That's my dad, Frank, in the middle. And on his left, my sisters: Mary Catherine, Judith Ann, Theresa Marie. John Patrick's sitting on his lap and Kevin Michael's on his right. And in the pale-blue windbreaker, Susan Diane. Me. I loved growing up in a big family. And one of my favorite things was picking names. But by the time child number seven came along, we had nearly run out of middle names. It was a long deliberation before we finally settled on Jennifer Bridget. Every parent in this audience knows the joy and excitement of picking a new baby's name. And I was excited and thrilled to help my mom in that special ceremonial moment. But it's not like that everywhere. I travel a lot and I see a lot. But it took me by surprise to learn in an area of Ethiopia, parents delay picking the names for their new babies by a month or more. Why delay? Why not take advantage of this special ceremonial time? Well, they delay because they're afraid. They're afraid their baby will die. And this loss might be a little more bearable without a name. A face without a name might help them feel just a little less attached. So here we are in one part of the world — a time of joy, excitement, dreaming of the future of that child — while in another world, parents are filled with dread, not daring to dream of a future for their child beyond a few precious weeks. How can that be? How can it be that 2.6 million babies die around the world before they're even one month old? 2.6 million. That's the population of Vancouver. And the shocking thing is: Why? In too many cases, we simply don't know. Now, I remember recently seeing an updated pie chart. And the pie chart was labeled, ""Causes of death in children under five worldwide."" And there was a pretty big section of that pie chart, about 40 percent — 40 percent was labeled ""neonatal."" Now, ""neonatal"" is not a cause of death. Neonatal is simply an adjective, an adjective that means that the child is less than one month old. For me, ""neonatal"" said: ""We have no idea."" Now, I'm a scientist. I'm a doctor. I want to fix things. But you can't fix what you can't define. So our first step in restoring the dreams of those parents is to answer the question: Why are babies dying? So today, I want to talk about a new approach, an approach that I feel will not only help us know why babies are dying, but is beginning to completely transform the whole field of global health. It's called ""Precision Public Health."" For me, precision medicine comes from a very special place. I trained as a cancer doctor, an oncologist. I got into it because I wanted to help people feel better. But too often my treatments made them feel worse. I still remember young women being driven to my clinic by their moms — adults, who had to be helped into my exam room by their mothers. They were so weak from the treatment I had given them. But at the time, in those front lines in the war on cancer, we had few tools. And the tools we did have couldn't differentiate between the cancer cells that we wanted to hit hard and those healthy cells that we wanted to preserve. And so the side effects that you're all very familiar with — hair loss, being sick to your stomach, having a suppressed immune system, so infection was a constant threat — were always surrounding us. And then I moved to the biotechnology industry. And I got to work on a new approach for breast cancer patients that could do a better job of telling the healthy cells from the unhealthy or cancer cells. It's a drug called Herceptin. And what Herceptin allowed us to do is to precisely target HER2-positive breast cancer, at the time, the scariest form of breast cancer. And that precision let us hit hard the cancer cells, while sparing and being more gentle on the normal cells. A huge breakthrough. It felt like a miracle, so much so that today, we're harnessing all those tools — big data, consumer monitoring, gene sequencing and more — to tackle a broad variety of diseases. That's allowing us to target individuals with the right remedies at the right time. Precision medicine revolutionized cancer therapy. Everything changed. And I want everything to change again. So I've been asking myself: Why should we limit this smarter, more precise, better way to tackle diseases to the rich world? Now, don't misunderstand me — I'm not talking about bringing expensive medicines like Herceptin to the developing world, although I'd actually kind of like that. What I am talking about is moving from this precise targeting for individuals to tackle public health problems in populations. Now, OK, I know probably you're thinking, ""She's crazy. You can't do that. That's too ambitious."" But here's the thing: we're already doing this in a limited way, and it's already starting to make a big difference. So here's what's happening. Now, I told you I trained as a cancer doctor. But like many, many doctors who trained in San Francisco in the '80s, I also trained as an AIDS doctor. It was a terrible time. AIDS was a death sentence. All my patients died. Now, things are better, but HIV/AIDS remains a terrible global challenge. Worldwide, about 17 million women are living with HIV. We know that when these women become pregnant, they can transfer the virus to their baby. We also know in the absence of therapy, half those babies will not survive until the age of two. But we know that antiretroviral therapy can virtually guarantee that she will not transmit the virus to the baby. So what do we do? Well, a one-size-fits-all approach, kind of like that blast of chemo, would mean we test and treat every pregnant woman in the world. That would do the job. But it's just not practical. So instead, we target those areas where HIV rates are the highest. We know in certain countries in sub-Saharan Africa we can test and treat pregnant women where rates are highest. This precision approach to a public health problem has cut by nearly half HIV transmission from mothers to baby in the last five years. (Applause) Screening pregnant women in certain areas in the developing world is a powerful example of how precision public health can change things on a big scale. So ... How do we do that? We can do that because we know. We know who to target, what to target, where to target and how to target. And that, for me, are the important  elements of precision public health: who, what, where and how. But let's go back to the 2.6 million babies who die before they're one month old. Here's the problem: we just don't know. It may seem unbelievable, but the way we figure out the causes of infant mortality in those countries with the highest infant mortality is a conversation with mom. A health worker asks a mom who has just lost her child, ""Was the baby vomiting? Did they have a fever?"" And that conversation may take place as long as three months after the baby has died. Now, put yourself in the shoes of that mom. It's a heartbreaking, excruciating conversation. And even worse — it's not that helpful, because we might know there was a fever or vomiting, but we don't know why. So in the absence of knowing that knowledge, we cannot prevent that mom, that family, or other families in that community from suffering the same tragedy. But what if we applied a precision public health approach? Let's say, for example, we find out in certain areas of Africa that babies are dying because of a bacterial infection transferred from the mother to the baby, known as Group B streptococcus. In the absence of treatment, mom has a seven times higher chance that her next baby will die. Once we define the problem, we can prevent that death with something as cheap and safe as penicillin. We can do that because then we'll know. And that's the point: once we know, we can bring the right interventions to the right population in the right places to save lives. With this approach, and with these interventions and others like them, I have no doubt that a precision public health approach can help our world achieve our 15-year goal. And that would translate into a million babies' lives saved every single year. One million babies every single year. And why would we stop there? A much more powerful approach to public health — imagine what might be possible. Why couldn't we more effectively tackle malnutrition? Why wouldn't we prevent cervical cancer in women? And why not eradicate malaria? (Applause) Yes, clap for that! (Applause) So, you know, I live in two different worlds, one world populated by scientists, and another world populated by public health professionals. The promise of precision public health is to bring these two worlds together. But you know, we all live in two worlds: the rich world and the poor world. And what I'm most excited about about precision public health is bridging these two worlds. Every day in the rich world, we're bringing incredible talent and tools — everything at our disposal — to precisely target diseases in ways I never imagined would be possible. Surely, we can tap into that kind of talent and tools to stop babies dying in the poor world. If we did, then every parent would have the confidence to name their child the moment that child is born, daring to dream that that child's life will be measured in decades, not days. Thank you. (Applause)"	OK，首先，先自我介紹一下。這張照片是我母親珍妮拍的，在中間的是我爸，法蘭克。在他左邊的是我姊姊：瑪莉凱瑟琳、僑蒂絲安、泰瑞莎馬瑞。約翰派崔克坐在他腳上，凱文麥克在他右邊。穿著淺藍色防風夾克的就是在下我，蘇珊黛安娜。我很開心可以在大家庭長大。而我最喜歡的事就是命名。但到了第七個孩子出生時，我們家幾乎已經用光所有的名字，我們考慮了很久，最後才把珍妮佛布里茲的名字定下來。在場的每位爸爸媽媽都很了解幫寶寶命名時的幸福與興奮。而我竟然可以在這種喜慶的時刻幫助我媽自然是興奮又激動的。 但世界上的其它地方就不一定是如此了。我時常旅行，見聞豐富。但令我吃驚的是，在伊索比亞的地方，父母不會馬上為孩子命名，有時會拖延到一個月或更久之後。為什麼要拖延？為什麼不把握特別的一刻？其實，他們拖延的原因是害怕。他們害怕寶寶會死亡。如果不幸過世，寶寶沒有名字他們比較不會那麼難過。不取名字能幫助他們減少一點對新生兒的不捨。 世上有一部分父母是——沉浸在幸福裡，夢想著寶寶的未來——而另一個世界的父母......卻是擔心受怕，不敢在那寶貴的幾個星期裡，夢想著他們小孩的未來。怎麼會這樣？為什麼世界上有260 萬個小寶寶會在出生頭一個月去世？260萬！這可是溫哥華的總人口啊！令人震驚的是：為什麼？很多時候，我們真的束手無策。 我記得最近看到一張最新的圓形圖表，圖表的主題是，《全世界低於五歲小孩的死亡原因》圖表上有很大部分，大約40%，有 40% 的原因是「初生」，「初生」不是一種死因「初生」只是一個形容詞，是用來形容剛出生不到一個月的新生兒。對我而言，這像是對著新生兒們說：「我們無能為力」。 我是一位科學家，我是醫生。我想要做點事改善這個狀況。但你無法改善你不理解的事。所以，要重建那些父母親的夢想，我們第一步就是要回答這個問題：為什麼寶寶會死亡？ 所以，今天，我想要來談談一個新的方法，一個我覺得不只可以幫助我們了解為什麼寶寶會死亡，也讓我們可以開始動手徹底改革全球醫療系統。這個方法叫做「精準公共醫療」。 我對「精準醫學」的知識來自一個特別的地方。我是一位癌症及腫瘤醫師。我會進入這一個領域的原因，是因為我想要讓病人更舒服。但很多時候，我的治療方式只會讓他們更痛苦。我仍記得那些年輕女孩們被她們的媽媽載來我診所的那一幕，這些成年人，被她們的媽媽們載來我的診療室尋求幫助。我的治療方式讓她們變得很虛弱。但在當時對抗癌症這場戰役的前線，我們可用的工具極少。而我們擁有的工具，無法區別出需要消滅的癌症細胞及想要保留的健康細胞。大家都相當了解這些治療方式產生的副作用——掉髮、感到噁心、免疫系統不良，於是常常別感染的威脅無時無刻潛伏在我們的身邊。 所以我轉到生物科技領域找方法，我全心投入到一個治療乳癌病患的新方法，這個方法比較能有效地分辨出不健康的細胞或癌細胞。這是一種叫「賀癌平」的藥。賀癌平可以讓我們精準地標靶到當時最恐怖的HER2 乳癌細胞，它能精準地攻擊癌症細胞，且對正常細胞的傷害降到最低。相當重大的突破，感覺相當神奇，因此今日，我們可以利用這些工具——大資料、消費監控、基因定序......等等來對抗各類疾病。它可以讓我們用精準的療程及時對個人做治療。 「精準醫學」變革了癌症治療的方式。每件事都改變了，而我希望每件事能再次改變。所以，我一直在問我自己：為什麼我們把這種較聰明的、較精準的對抗疾病的方式，限制在富人階層？千萬別誤會我的意思——我不是在談，把類似「賀癌平」這種貴重的藥，帶到開發中國家去，雖然我是這麼希望。我說的是，把這種精準的個人醫療方式，轉移去解決公共醫療問題。 我知道，你們可能在想，「這女的瘋了，不能這樣搞，這樣太大膽了！」但事情是這樣的：在資源有限的情況下，我們已經開始在做這件事，而且已經有很大的成效了。 我接下來談談成效如何，我剛跟各位提到，我是一位癌症醫師，但就如同在 80 年代舊金山受訓的醫師們一樣，我也是一位愛滋病治療醫師，那段時間，情況非常糟糕。感染愛滋病等同宣判死亡，我所有的愛滋病人都死了。現在，情況好轉了，但愛滋病仍然是全球艱苦的挑戰。全世界，目前約有1700萬女人感染愛滋病。我們都曉得，當這些女人懷孕時，她們會把病毒傳染給小孩。我們也清楚，因缺乏治療的方式，一半的愛滋寶寶活不到 2 歲。但我們知道抗逆轉錄病毒療法可以保證她們不會把病毒傳染給孩子。所以，我們要怎麼做？ 我們要找出一個一體適用的方法，意思就是要找到一個可以檢測並治療全世界女人的方法。這樣才能達到目標，但有點不實際。所以，我們把目標轉到愛滋病率最高的區域。我們知道在撒哈拉南邊的某些非洲國家有相當高的愛滋病感染率，我們可以在這裡檢測並治療到最多的女人。這個針對性的公共醫療方式，在最近這五年，解決了將近一大半從母親身上傳染愛滋病到孩童身上的公共醫療問題。 （掌聲） 篩檢這些開發中國家懷孕的女人，充分展示了精準公共醫療可以如何大規模改善現狀。 所以，我們要怎麼做？因為我們知道，我們做的到。我們知道要治療誰、要治療甚麼病、去哪治療、如何治療。對我而言，這些是精準公共醫療的重要元素：（治療）誰、甚麼、去哪、如何。 但讓我們回到 260 萬個活不到一個月的寶寶身上。問題是這樣的：我們只是不了解。這聽起來好像不可思議。但我們想到一個方法，就是直接找有最高嬰兒死亡率國家的母親對話。醫療人員會問寶寶剛過世的母親一個問題，「寶寶有嘔吐嗎？有發高燒嗎？」對話也許就在寶寶去世後的三個月。現在，各位換位思考一下那位母親的感受，那會是一場多麼令人心碎與備受折磨的對話啊...更糟糕的是，這一點也沒有幫助，因為，我們只知道有發燒嘔吐的情況發生，但我們不知道為什麼。因為缺乏這方面的知識，我們就無法阻止那位母親、家庭或在那個社區的其他家庭悲劇繼續發生。 但如果我們應用精準公共醫療的治療方式呢？舉個例子，我們在非洲發現到某些特定區域，有母親傳染細菌給寶寶而造成寶寶死亡的案例，而這細菌也就是大家所孰悉的 B 型鏈球菌。因缺乏治療，這些母親的下一個寶寶死亡率會比正常高出七倍。一旦我們找出問題的核心，我們就可以利用便宜又安全類似青黴素的藥物來避免死亡。我們這樣做之後就能夠了解致病的根本原因，這才是重點：一旦我們了解了，我們就能用正確的治療方式，對特定區域的人做精準且即時的治療，來完成救人的目的。 有了這個方法、這些介入的方式及其它類似的方法，我深信，精準公共醫療方法可以幫助我們完成 「15 年目標」。我們也可以把它解讀成每年可以拯救一百萬個寶寶。每年一百萬個寶寶。 為什麼我們要停下來？一個對公眾健康這麼有幫助的方法——想像一下，還有甚麼病也可以用這種方式來解決？為什麼我們不可以更有效地解決營養不良問題？為什麼我們不能防止女性的子宮頸癌？為什麼不能根除瘧疾？ （掌聲） 是的，為這件事用力鼓掌吧！ （掌聲） 各位知道嗎，我們住在兩個截然不同的世界裡，一個世界充滿了科學家，而另一個世界卻到處是公共醫療專家。精準公共醫療的承諾，就是把這兩個世界結合在一起。但各位要知道，我們都住在這兩個世界裡：富人與窮人的世界。我對精準公共醫療最興奮的地方，就是將這兩個世界連結一起。在富人世界的每一天，這些完美的天分與工具，在我們的掌控下，用前所未有的精準方式治療富人的疾病。當然，我們也要運用這些天分與工具來阻止窮人世界寶寶的死亡。如果我們能做到，如此，每個爸爸媽媽都可以在寶寶出生的那一刻，更有信心地幫寶寶命名，大膽地夢想寶寶未來的十幾年，而不是只有幾天而已。 謝謝各位！ （掌聲）
