Talk	en	zh-tw
susan_cain_the_power_of_introverts	"When I was nine years old, I went off to summer camp for the first time. And my mother packed me a suitcase full of books, which to me seemed like a perfectly natural thing to do. Because in my family, reading was the primary group activity. And this might sound antisocial to you, but for us it was really just a different way of being social. You have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you, but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind. And I had this idea that camp was going to be just like this, but better. (Laughter) I had a vision of 10 girls sitting in a cabin cozily reading books in their matching nightgowns. (Laughter) Camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol. And on the very first day, our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit. And it went like this: ""R-O-W-D-I-E, that's the way we spell rowdie. Rowdie, rowdie, let's get rowdie."" (Laughter) Yeah. So I couldn't figure out for the life of me why we were supposed to be so rowdy, or why we had to spell this word incorrectly. (Laughter) But I recited a cheer. I recited a cheer along with everybody else. I did my best. And I just waited for the time that I could go off and read my books. But the first time that I took my book out of my suitcase, the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me, ""Why are you being so mellow?"" — mellow, of course, being the exact opposite of R-O-W-D-I-E. And then the second time I tried it, the counselor came up to me with a concerned expression on her face and she repeated the point about camp spirit and said we should all work very hard to be outgoing. And so I put my books away, back in their suitcase, and I put them under my bed, and there they stayed for the rest of the summer. And I felt kind of guilty about this. I felt as if the books needed me somehow, and they were calling out to me and I was forsaking them. But I did forsake them and I didn't open that suitcase again until I was back home with my family at the end of the summer. Now, I tell you this story about summer camp. I could have told you 50 others just like it — all the times that I got the message that somehow my quiet and introverted style of being was not necessarily the right way to go, that I should be trying to pass as more of an extrovert. And I always sensed deep down that this was wrong and that introverts were pretty excellent just as they were. But for years I denied this intuition, and so I became a Wall Street lawyer, of all things, instead of the writer that I had always longed to be — partly because I needed to prove to myself that I could be bold and assertive too. And I was always going off to crowded bars when I really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends. And I made these self-negating choices so reflexively, that I wasn't even aware that I was making them. Now this is what many introverts do, and it's our loss for sure, but it is also our colleagues' loss and our communities' loss. And at the risk of sounding grandiose, it is the world's loss. Because when it comes to creativity and to leadership, we need introverts doing what they do best. A third to a half of the population are introverts — a third to a half. So that's one out of every two or three people you know. So even if you're an extrovert yourself, I'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now — all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society. We all internalize it from a very early age without even having a language for what we're doing. Now, to see the bias clearly, you need to understand what introversion is. It's different from being shy. Shyness is about fear of social judgment. Introversion is more about, how do you respond to stimulation, including social stimulation. So extroverts really crave large amounts of stimulation, whereas introverts feel at their most alive and their most switched-on and their most capable when they're in quieter, more low-key environments. Not all the time — these things aren't absolute — but a lot of the time. So the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us. But now here's where the bias comes in. Our most important institutions, our schools and our workplaces, they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts' need for lots of stimulation. And also we have this belief system right now that I call the new groupthink, which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place. So if you picture the typical classroom nowadays: When I was going to school, we sat in rows. We sat in rows of desks like this, and we did most of our work pretty autonomously. But nowadays, your typical classroom has pods of desks — four or five or six or seven kids all facing each other. And kids are working in countless group assignments. Even in subjects like math and creative writing, which you think would depend on solo flights of thought, kids are now expected to act as committee members. And for the kids who prefer to go off by themselves or just to work alone, those kids are seen as outliers often or, worse, as problem cases. And the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert, even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable, according to research. (Laughter) Okay, same thing is true in our workplaces. Now, most of us work in open plan offices, without walls, where we are subject to the constant noise and gaze of our coworkers. And when it comes to leadership, introverts are routinely passed over for leadership positions, even though introverts tend to be very careful, much less likely to take outsize risks — which is something we might all favor nowadays. And interesting research by Adam Grant at the Wharton School has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes than extroverts do, because when they are managing proactive employees, they're much more likely to let those employees run with their ideas, whereas an extrovert can, quite unwittingly, get so excited about things that they're putting their own stamp on things, and other people's ideas might not as easily then bubble up to the surface. Now in fact, some of our transformative leaders in history have been introverts. I'll give you some examples. Eleanor Roosevelt, Rosa Parks, Gandhi — all these peopled described themselves as quiet and soft-spoken and even shy. And they all took the spotlight, even though every bone in their bodies was telling them not to. And this turns out to have a special power all its own, because people could feel that these leaders were at the helm not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure of being looked at; they were there because they had no choice, because they were driven to do what they thought was right. Now I think at this point it's important for me to say that I actually love extroverts. I always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts, including my beloved husband. And we all fall at different points, of course, along the introvert/extrovert spectrum. Even Carl Jung, the psychologist who first popularized these terms, said that there's no such thing as a pure introvert or a pure extrovert. He said that such a man would be in a lunatic asylum, if he existed at all. And some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert/extrovert spectrum, and we call these people ambiverts. And I often think that they have the best of all worlds. But many of us do recognize ourselves as one type or the other. And what I'm saying is that culturally, we need a much better balance. We need more of a yin and yang between these two types. This is especially important when it comes to creativity and to productivity, because when psychologists look at the lives of the most creative people, what they find are people who are very good at exchanging ideas and advancing ideas, but who also have a serious streak of introversion in them. And this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient often to creativity. So Darwin, he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down dinner-party invitations. Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in La Jolla, California. And he was actually afraid to meet the young children who read his books for fear that they were expecting him this kind of jolly Santa Claus-like figure and would be disappointed with his more reserved persona. Steve Wozniak invented the first Apple computer sitting alone in his cubicle in Hewlett-Packard where he was working at the time. And he says that he never would have become such an expert in the first place had he not been too introverted to leave the house when he was growing up. Now, of course, this does not mean that we should all stop collaborating — and case in point, is Steve Wozniak famously coming together with Steve Jobs to start Apple Computer — but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people it is the air that they breathe. And in fact, we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude. It's only recently that we've strangely begun to forget it. If you look at most of the world's major religions, you will find seekers — Moses, Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad — seekers who are going off by themselves alone to the wilderness, where they then have profound epiphanies and revelations that they then bring back to the rest of the community. So, no wilderness, no revelations. This is no surprise, though, if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology. It turns out that we can't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring, mimicking their opinions. Even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you're attracted to, you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that's what you're doing. And groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant or charismatic person in the room, even though there's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas — I mean zero. So — (Laughter) You might be following the person with the best ideas, but you might not. And do you really want to leave it up to chance? Much better for everybody to go off by themselves, generate their own ideas freed from the distortions of group dynamics, and then come together as a team to talk them through in a well-managed environment and take it from there. Now if all this is true, then why are we getting it so wrong? Why are we setting up our schools this way, and our workplaces? And why are we making these introverts feel so guilty about wanting to just go off by themselves some of the time? One answer lies deep in our cultural history. Western societies, and in particular the U.S., have always favored the man of action over the ""man"" of contemplation. But in America's early days, we lived in what historians call a culture of character, where we still, at that point, valued people for their inner selves and their moral rectitude. And if you look at the self-help books from this era, they all had titles with things like ""Character, the Grandest Thing in the World."" And they featured role models like Abraham Lincoln, who was praised for being modest and unassuming. Ralph Waldo Emerson called him ""A man who does not offend by superiority."" But then we hit the 20th century, and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality. What happened is we had evolved an agricultural economy to a world of big business. And so suddenly people are moving from small towns to the cities. And instead of working alongside people they've known all their lives, now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers. So, quite understandably, qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important. And sure enough, the self-help books change to meet these new needs and they start to have names like ""How to Win Friends and Influence People."" And they feature as their role models really great salesmen. So that's the world we're living in today. That's our cultural inheritance. Now none of this is to say that social skills are unimportant, and I'm also not calling for the abolishing of teamwork at all. The same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust. And the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies of people coming together to solve them working together. But I am saying that the more freedom that we give introverts to be themselves, the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique solutions to these problems. So now I'd like to share with you what's in my suitcase today. Guess what? Books. I have a suitcase full of books. Here's Margaret Atwood, ""Cat's Eye."" Here's a novel by Milan Kundera. And here's ""The Guide for the Perplexed"" by Maimonides. But these are not exactly my books. I brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather's favorite authors. My grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small apartment in Brooklyn that was my favorite place in the world when I was growing up, partly because it was filled with his very gentle, very courtly presence and partly because it was filled with books. I mean literally every table, every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books. Just like the rest of my family, my grandfather's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read. But he also loved his congregation, and you could feel this love in the sermons that he gave every week for the 62 years that he was a rabbi. He would takes the fruits of each week's reading and he would weave these intricate tapestries of ancient and humanist thought. And people would come from all over to hear him speak. But here's the thing about my grandfather. Underneath this ceremonial role, he was really modest and really introverted — so much so that when he delivered these sermons, he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation that he had been speaking to for 62 years. And even away from the podium, when you called him to say hello, he would often end the conversation prematurely for fear that he was taking up too much of your time. But when he died at the age of 94, the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him. And so these days I try to learn from my grandfather's example in my own way. So I just published a book about introversion, and it took me about seven years to write. And for me, that seven years was like total bliss, because I was reading, I was writing, I was thinking, I was researching. It was my version of my grandfather's hours of the day alone in his library. But now all of a sudden my job is very different, and my job is to be out here talking about it, talking about introversion. (Laughter) And that's a lot harder for me, because as honored as I am to be here with all of you right now, this is not my natural milieu. So I prepared for moments like these as best I could. I spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance I could get. And I call this my ""year of speaking dangerously."" (Laughter) And that actually helped a lot. But I'll tell you, what helps even more is my sense, my belief, my hope that when it comes to our attitudes to introversion and to quiet and to solitude, we truly are poised on the brink on dramatic change. I mean, we are. And so I am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision. Number one: Stop the madness for constant group work. Just stop it. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) And I want to be clear about what I'm saying, because I deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual, chatty cafe-style types of interactions — you know, the kind where people come together and serendipitously have an exchange of ideas. That is great. It's great for introverts and it's great for extroverts. But we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work. School, same thing. We need to be teaching kids to work together, for sure, but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own. This is especially important for extroverted children too. They need to work on their own because that is where deep thought comes from in part. Okay, number two: Go to the wilderness. Be like Buddha, have your own revelations. I'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build our own cabins in the woods and never talk to each other again, but I am saying that we could all stand to unplug and get inside our own heads a little more often. Number three: Take a good look at what's inside your own suitcase and why you put it there. So extroverts, maybe your suitcases are also full of books. Or maybe they're full of champagne glasses or skydiving equipment. Whatever it is, I hope you take these things out every chance you get and grace us with your energy and your joy. But introverts, you being you, you probably have the impulse to guard very carefully what's inside your own suitcase. And that's okay. But occasionally, just occasionally, I hope you will open up your suitcases for other people to see, because the world needs you and it needs the things you carry. So I wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"在我九歲時第一次要去參加夏令營，媽媽幫我整理的行李箱裡面塞滿了書，這對我來說是完全正常的事情。因為在我的家庭中，閱讀是主要的群體活動。對你來說我們似乎顯得不愛社交，但對於我們而言，這只是另一種社交方式罷了。你能享受到家人坐在身邊動物性的溫暖，也能自由自在地在內心深處的冒險樂園中遨遊。而我以為夏令營就應該像這樣子，而且是更好一些。(笑聲)我的腦海浮現著10個女孩穿相似的睡衣，坐在小木屋裡愜意地讀書。 （笑聲） 夏令營就像是一個沒有酒精飲料的派對聚會。在入營的第一天營長把我們召集一起她教了我們ㄧ個在暑假餘下的日子裡每天都會用到的口號，藉以凝聚營舎精神。這句口號是這樣的:""R-O-W-D-I-E (譯註:即 rowdy 作吵鬧解)，我們是這樣拼rowdie的，嘰喳嘰喳嘰，盡情吵鬧吧。""是的。我完全不能理解為何要吵鬧，為何要錯誤地拼這個字。(笑聲)不過我還是背誦了這口號，跟其他人一同呼叫。我盡力而為。然後等待，可以回房看書的時間。 但當我終於可以把書拿出來的時候，營裡最酷的女孩走過來問我，""你在裝甚麼老成啊？"" —老成，剛好是吵鬧 (R-O-W-D-I-E) 的相反詞。然後第二次我再拿書出來時，營長面露關心的走過來，重申了營隊精神，說我們都應該努力變得活潑外向。 所以我把書收進我的行李箱裡，把它們放在床下，讓它整個夏天都待在那裡，然而我卻覺得有點愧疚，總覺得這些書本需要我，他們不停呼喚著我，但我把它拋棄了而且再也沒有打開我的行李箱，一直到夏天的尾巴，我回家的那天。 我說的這個夏令營的故事，事實上可以有五十個相同的版本—旁人傳遞來的訊息總是說，我的安靜內向不是一般人應該有的表現，我應該更活潑外向一點。但我內心深處我知道，內向才是我真正自在的表現。但，多年來我試圖否定我的直覺，所以我成為華爾街的律師，而不是我一直想成為的作家—一部份原因是我想證明自己有行事果斷的能力。我常去最熱門的酒吧，但其實我更想要與好友自在的享用晚餐。我下意識的做這些背離我個性的選擇，而我竟已渾然不覺。 其實很多內向的人都這麼做，這不只是我們個人損失，更是我們同僚，與社會群眾的損失。聽起來言重，但這也是對這個世界的損失。因為創造力和領導力正需要這些內斂的人發揮他們的長才。有1/3至一半的人口是偏內向的—1/3近一半!也就是說每兩三個人中就有一個內向人口。就算你本身是外向的，你的同事你的另一半和你的小孩，還有你旁邊坐的那位—都可能是受害者。這種觀念深植在我們社會中。我們在還不會說話時就已被這種思想內化了。 為了要更加明白這個偏見，我們必須瞭解什麼是內向。內向不是害羞，害羞是無法承受社會眼光。內向比較像是你對外在世界的反應。外向的人需要很多的刺激，但內斂的人相反，他們對自身感受敏銳，反而在不被注目時最能發揮他們的能耐。偶而會有例外，但大多是如此。所以關鍵在於去將各人的長才發揮至極致，適才所長，各司其職。 但就因為社會的偏見，我們最重要的機構學校及職場，卻像是為外向者設計的，提供很多的刺激給每個人。這樣的不成文社會慣例，我稱之為新團體思考，把所有的想像力跟創造力綑在一個群聚的團體中。 所以，想像一個早期典型的教室：我以前上學時，我們都排排坐在行列整齊的書桌前，各自做著我們的功課。但現在，普遍的教室都把桌椅和併成團—四，五，六，七個小朋友面對面，每個人都要參與團體作業，甚至連算數或是創意寫作這種可以獨自完成的作業，都要小朋友像委員會成員一樣參與討論。而那些想要獨自或獨立完成作業的孩子，被視為不和群的異類，甚至是問題孩童。幾乎所有老師都認為好的學生應該是外向活潑的，內向的孩子則正好相反。雖然內向的孩子成績較好甚至更博學多聞，這是根據研究論文的喔。(笑聲) 在職場上何嘗不是如此，我們大多在開放的空間工作，沒有隔閡，我們持續暴露於嘈雜的聲音跟同事的目光下。而關於領導能力，內向的人大多不被認為具有領導能力，就算他們行事更謹慎，更不會為了出鋒頭冒不必要的險—我們不都偏好這種人當領袖嗎?Adam Grant研究發現，這些內向的領導者，往往更能勝任領導職責，因為他們善於管理不同人才，讓有遠見的員工自由發揮，反之外向的領導者，不經意的對事情反應過度，他們的見解較為主觀，這使很多員工的創新想法沒有機會被採用。 事實上，很多有改革力的偉大領袖是些內向的人。羅斯福、蘿莎帕克斯、甘地，這些人對自我的描述都是內向，文靜，說話溫柔，甚至是害羞的人。他們矗立在鎂光燈下，不是因為他們天生愛指揮，也不是想要萬眾矚目，他們成為領袖是因為一種使命感，因為他們深知這是必須要做的。而人們可以明白感受到他們當領袖不是因為好大喜功，而是責任感，驅使他們做認為對的事情。 現在我必須申明，我其實非常喜歡外向的人。我很多知心友人都是外向者，我心愛的丈夫也是。內向外向就像個光譜，而我們坐落在不同程度的兩端。心理學大師榮格如是說，事上沒有絕對的內向或是外向的人。即使真有這樣的人存在，他就會被關進精神病院。在這道內向外向的光譜上，有的人剛好坐落在中間，我們稱之為中間性格，我認為他們是最值得稱讚的，但大多數的我們都自認不是外向就是內向。 我想表達的是，我們的社會文化需要平衡，需要內向外向陰與陽的調和。這點在創造力與生產力的表現上尤其重要。因為根據心理學家的觀察，最有創意的一群人，不只擅長於交換意見，溝通，與創新，更存有內向的特質， 偶發的孤獨感，是創造力的關鍵。所以，達爾文會獨自在樹林間漫步，且斷然的拒絕晚餐宴會的邀約，Theodor Geisel，也就是「蘇斯博士」，是在他加州拉荷亞的老家一個寂寞鐘塔裡的書房，創造出許多舉世聞名的童話書。而他其實非常害怕跟他的小讀者們見面，因為他怕小朋友們看到他會期待落空，因為他不像聖誕老人那樣親和有趣。Steve Wozniak在惠普公司的一個小辦公室裡發明了世上第一台蘋果電腦。他說他以前年輕時，如果不是因為太過內向而都宅在家裡，他不可能可以成為了不起的工程師。 當然，這絕非告訴大家我們從此不要再合作了—好比 Steve Wozniak和賈伯斯兩人同心協力才能創辦蘋果公司—但，獨立自主是非常重要的。對一些人來說，這就是他們生活的方式。事實上，幾世紀以來，我們都知道獨處所帶來的推動力，但直到近期我們不知怎麼遺忘了。世界上那些偉大的宗教領袖，你會發現這些人—摩西，耶稣，佛祖，穆罕默德 —他們都遠離塵囂，獨自走進曠野。他們而後尋得啟示與頓悟，再把所得貢獻回他們的社會。所以，沒有獨處的荒野，就不會有啟示錄。 這其實不是什麼新鮮事，仔細的看看你周遭的人們，我們如果不模仿彼此的言行舉止，我們根本不會變成一個群體。我們甚至連價值觀，都被大環境牽著走，你甚至會在不知不覺中，開始模仿周遭人們的信仰。 我們尤其容易，在小圈圈裡追隨能言善道的角色。即使，最會說話的人並不見得是最有想法的人。根本就不會是。所以說...(笑聲)你可能正在支持最有想法的人，也可能不是。難道你真的不想有雪亮的雙眼?我們何不用自己的雙腳走入孤獨，領會屬於自己的思想，不被群眾思想控制，然後再互相合作，在一個健全的環境討論交流，共同創造成果。 如果這一切都是真的，我們為何錯的一蹋糊塗?我們為何把學校跟職場架設成這樣?我們為何要讓這些內向者因為想有獨立自處的時間而感到無所適從?有個答案深植在我們的社會文化裡，我們西方社會，特別是在美國，總是讚揚有行動力的人，而非有沉思能力的人。有沉思能力的""男人""。但在美國早期，歷史學家稱之文化性格時期，那時人們仍尊重公正清廉，有內在涵養的人。綜觀那時的勵志書籍，幾乎都會有像是""品格是世上最珍貴的東西。""等頭銜。例如亞伯拉罕 林肯被群眾頌揚，因其謙遜與不裝腔作勢的性格。美國思想家愛默生稱其""不被優越感駕馭的男人""。 然而隨著二十世紀到來，我們進入了一個新的紀元，歷史上稱之為文化人格時期。我們從農村經濟演變為大型貿易體制，突然間人們從小鄉鎮湧入大城市。所以人們不再只是跟一起長大的人共事，而必須在強者四伏的環境積極的證明自己的能力。因此，不難理解，具有吸引力的個人魅力變得格外的重要。自然地，勵志書籍也改變路線了，開始出現書名像是""如何贏得朋友和影響他人"" 等。成功的推銷員，變成人們楷模的對向。這就是我們所生活的今天，我們的文化傳承於此。 我所說的完全不是指社交技能不重要，我也不是在說團隊精神沒有存在價值。相同的宗教聖賢們今日仍舊教導我們愛與信。而我們現今所面臨的問題，如科學突破與經濟發展，變得如此廣闊複雜，我們當然需要集思廣益，共同解決眼前的難關。但，如果我們能提供內向者多一些個人空間，他們便有機會創造出獨具慧眼的答案。 所以我想分享給各位的是，我行李箱中的東西。猜猜裡面是什麼?書。滿滿一袋的書。這是馬格莉特著的；米蘭 昆德拉的小說；這是由麥蒙尼德所著。但其實這些書不屬於我，我會帶這些書來，是因為這些是我祖父最喜歡的作者的作品。 我祖父是猶太教教士，祖母過世後他獨自住在布魯克林的一間小公寓裡。那是我小時候最喜歡的地方，部分原因是那裏充滿祖父溫柔的氛圍，部分原因是那裏佈滿了書。那裏的每張桌子，甚至椅子，都被成推成塔的書給排排占滿了。就如同我家庭的其他成員，我祖父的嗜好就是閱讀。 但他也很享受宗教集會，62年來，他每周都會在猶太教佈道會上講道。他會把他從書中吸收到的智慧，頌揚遠古流傳的人道主義思維。他的聽眾來自各個領域，認真聆聽他的傳講。 我祖父有個特點，在他宗教領導角色背後，他是個非常謙遜與內向的人—他甚至緊張到不敢在佈道時跟聽眾眼神交會。即使他都已經在同一個佈道會傳講了62年了。甚至，當他走下講台，人們向著他打招呼時，他會草草的結束話題，因為擔心會占用別人太多的時間。當他在94歲那年過世時，交警不得不關閉許多鄰近街道，來容納蜂擁而至前來哀悼他的群眾。所以，這些日子我試圖用我的方式來效仿我的祖父。 我剛完成了一本關於內向性的書，這本書花了我七年的時間。這七年，對我而言是極大的恩典，因為我得以閱讀，寫作，思考，研究。相較於祖父的閱讀與佈道，這是我的版本，我的表達方式。但現在我的工作變得非常棘手，我必須要在公開場合，在講台上，跟你們談論何謂內向。(笑聲)這不是我拿手的事情，但能站在這裡向你們說話，能對在坐的各為傳達我的想法，是何等榮耀的事情， 所以我盡我所能，為了這一天做好準備。我花了一整年的時間，積極練習公開演講。我稱這段時間為 ""驚險的演講之年""。(笑聲)這其實對我幫助很大。但讓我獲益最多的，是我的意識，我的信念，我的希望。我們對內向、沉默、與獨立者的態度，是可以被徹徹底底改變的。所以，我要呼籲在座各位如果你跟我有共鳴，請幫我傳達三個宗旨： 第一點，不要再瘋狂的過群體生活。趕緊停止吧。(笑聲)謝謝。(掌聲)我想要再次重申，因為我深深相信，我們的工作環境應該鼓勵輕鬆、休閒的聊天方式—像在喝下午茶一樣自在，然後不經意地交換意見。那該有多美好，無論是對內向或是外向者。而且我們在工作上，需要有更多的隱私，自由與自主權。在學校也是一樣。我們要教孩子們攜手合作，但我們也要教他們如何自主作業。這對外向的兒童尤其重要。他們需要學習自主獨立，因為有深度的見解就是源自於此。 好了，第二， 去曠野探索吧。像佛祖一樣，有自己的啟示。我不是在說我們馬上要去蓋個山中小屋隱居起來，也不是要你們互不往來，但是呼籲大家可以除去障礙，專心的進入自己的腦海裡，在更深切一點。 第三點，好好的檢視一下你的行李箱，裡面有什麼，為何你要把它們放進去。外向的人們，也許你行李箱也裝滿了書。又或許塞滿了香檳杯或高空跳傘設備。不管是什麼，我希望你不時將它拿出來，與我們共同分享你的快樂與能量。而內向的人們，當你自己就好，你或許會害怕去跟別人分享你行李箱中的東西，那也沒關係的。但偶爾，只是偶爾，我希望你會打開你的行李箱給他人瞧，因為世界需要你，需要你所持有的特質。 我祝福你們，能有最精彩的旅程，和輕聲細語說話的勇氣。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝。謝謝。 （掌聲）"
