Talk	en	zh-tw
susan_solomon_the_promise_of_research_with_stem_cells	"So, embryonic stem cells are really incredible cells. They are our body's own repair kits, and they're pluripotent, which means they can morph into all of the cells in our bodies. Soon, we actually will be able to use stem cells to replace cells that are damaged or diseased. But that's not what I want to talk to you about, because right now there are some really extraordinary things that we are doing with stem cells that are completely changing the way we look and model disease, our ability to understand why we get sick, and even develop drugs. I truly believe that stem cell research is going to allow our children to look at Alzheimer's and diabetes and other major diseases the way we view polio today, which is as a preventable disease. So here we have this incredible field, which has enormous hope for humanity, but much like IVF over 35 years ago, until the birth of a healthy baby, Louise, this field has been under siege politically and financially. Critical research is being challenged instead of supported, and we saw that it was really essential to have private safe haven laboratories where this work could be advanced without interference. And so, in 2005, we started the New York Stem Cell Foundation Laboratory so that we would have a small organization that could do this work and support it. What we saw very quickly is the world of both medical research, but also developing drugs and treatments, is dominated by, as you would expect, large organizations, but in a new field, sometimes large organizations really have trouble getting out of their own way, and sometimes they can't ask the right questions, and there is an enormous gap that's just gotten larger between academic research on the one hand and pharmaceutical companies and biotechs that are responsible for delivering all of our drugs and many of our treatments, and so we knew that to really accelerate cures and therapies, we were going to have to address this with two things: new technologies and also a new research model. Because if you don't close that gap, you really are exactly where we are today. And that's what I want to focus on. We've spent the last couple of years pondering this, making a list of the different things that we had to do, and so we developed a new technology, It's software and hardware, that actually can generate thousands and thousands of genetically diverse stem cell lines to create a global array, essentially avatars of ourselves. And we did this because we think that it's actually going to allow us to realize the potential, the promise, of all of the sequencing of the human genome, but it's going to allow us, in doing that, to actually do clinical trials in a dish with human cells, not animal cells, to generate drugs and treatments that are much more effective, much safer, much faster, and at a much lower cost. So let me put that in perspective for you and give you some context. This is an extremely new field. In 1998, human embryonic stem cells were first identified, and just nine years later, a group of scientists in Japan were able to take skin cells and reprogram them with very powerful viruses to create a kind of pluripotent stem cell called an induced pluripotent stem cell, or what we refer to as an IPS cell. This was really an extraordinary advance, because although these cells are not human embryonic stem cells, which still remain the gold standard, they are terrific to use for modeling disease and potentially for drug discovery. So a few months later, in 2008, one of our scientists built on that research. He took skin biopsies, this time from people who had a disease, ALS, or as you call it in the U.K., motor neuron disease. He turned them into the IPS cells that I've just told you about, and then he turned those IPS cells into the motor neurons that actually were dying in the disease. So basically what he did was to take a healthy cell and turn it into a sick cell, and he recapitulated the disease over and over again in the dish, and this was extraordinary, because it was the first time that we had a model of a disease from a living patient in living human cells. And as he watched the disease unfold, he was able to discover that actually the motor neurons were dying in the disease in a different way than the field had previously thought. There was another kind of cell that actually was sending out a toxin and contributing to the death of these motor neurons, and you simply couldn't see it until you had the human model. So you could really say that researchers trying to understand the cause of disease without being able to have human stem cell models were much like investigators trying to figure out what had gone terribly wrong in a plane crash without having a black box, or a flight recorder. They could hypothesize about what had gone wrong, but they really had no way of knowing what led to the terrible events. And stem cells really have given us the black box for diseases, and it's an unprecedented window. It really is extraordinary, because you can recapitulate many, many diseases in a dish, you can see what begins to go wrong in the cellular conversation well before you would ever see symptoms appear in a patient. And this opens up the ability, which hopefully will become something that is routine in the near term, of using human cells to test for drugs. Right now, the way we test for drugs is pretty problematic. To bring a successful drug to market, it takes, on average, 13 years — that's one drug — with a sunk cost of 4 billion dollars, and only one percent of the drugs that start down that road are actually going to get there. You can't imagine other businesses that you would think of going into that have these kind of numbers. It's a terrible business model. But it is really a worse social model because of what's involved and the cost to all of us. So the way we develop drugs now is by testing promising compounds on — We didn't have disease modeling with human cells, so we'd been testing them on cells of mice or other creatures or cells that we engineer, but they don't have the characteristics of the diseases that we're actually trying to cure. You know, we're not mice, and you can't go into a living person with an illness and just pull out a few brain cells or cardiac cells and then start fooling around in a lab to test for, you know, a promising drug. But what you can do with human stem cells, now, is actually create avatars, and you can create the cells, whether it's the live motor neurons or the beating cardiac cells or liver cells or other kinds of cells, and you can test for drugs, promising compounds, on the actual cells that you're trying to affect, and this is now, and it's absolutely extraordinary, and you're going to know at the beginning, the very early stages of doing your assay development and your testing, you're not going to have to wait 13 years until you've brought a drug to market, only to find out that actually it doesn't work, or even worse, harms people. But it isn't really enough just to look at the cells from a few people or a small group of people, because we have to step back. We've got to look at the big picture. Look around this room. We are all different, and a disease that I might have, if I had Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease, it probably would affect me differently than if one of you had that disease, and if we both had Parkinson's disease, and we took the same medication, but we had different genetic makeup, we probably would have a different result, and it could well be that a drug that worked wonderfully for me was actually ineffective for you, and similarly, it could be that a drug that is harmful for you is safe for me, and, you know, this seems totally obvious, but unfortunately it is not the way that the pharmaceutical industry has been developing drugs because, until now, it hasn't had the tools. And so we need to move away from this one-size-fits-all model. The way we've been developing drugs is essentially like going into a shoe store, no one asks you what size you are, or if you're going dancing or hiking. They just say, ""Well, you have feet, here are your shoes."" It doesn't work with shoes, and our bodies are many times more complicated than just our feet. So we really have to change this. There was a very sad example of this in the last decade. There's a wonderful drug, and a class of drugs actually, but the particular drug was Vioxx, and for people who were suffering from severe arthritis pain, the drug was an absolute lifesaver, but unfortunately, for another subset of those people, they suffered pretty severe heart side effects, and for a subset of those people, the side effects were so severe, the cardiac side effects, that they were fatal. But imagine a different scenario, where we could have had an array, a genetically diverse array, of cardiac cells, and we could have actually tested that drug, Vioxx, in petri dishes, and figured out, well, okay, people with this genetic type are going to have cardiac side effects, people with these genetic subgroups or genetic shoes sizes, about 25,000 of them, are not going to have any problems. The people for whom it was a lifesaver could have still taken their medicine. The people for whom it was a disaster, or fatal, would never have been given it, and you can imagine a very different outcome for the company, who had to withdraw the drug. So that is terrific, and we thought, all right, as we're trying to solve this problem, clearly we have to think about genetics, we have to think about human testing, but there's a fundamental problem, because right now, stem cell lines, as extraordinary as they are, and lines are just groups of cells, they are made by hand, one at a time, and it takes a couple of months. This is not scalable, and also when you do things by hand, even in the best laboratories, you have variations in techniques, and you need to know, if you're making a drug, that the Aspirin you're going to take out of the bottle on Monday is the same as the Aspirin that's going to come out of the bottle on Wednesday. So we looked at this, and we thought, okay, artisanal is wonderful in, you know, your clothing and your bread and crafts, but artisanal really isn't going to work in stem cells, so we have to deal with this. But even with that, there still was another big hurdle, and that actually brings us back to the mapping of the human genome, because we're all different. We know from the sequencing of the human genome that it's shown us all of the A's, C's, G's and T's that make up our genetic code, but that code, by itself, our DNA, is like looking at the ones and zeroes of the computer code without having a computer that can read it. It's like having an app without having a smartphone. We needed to have a way of bringing the biology to that incredible data, and the way to do that was to find a stand-in, a biological stand-in, that could contain all of the genetic information, but have it be arrayed in such a way as it could be read together and actually create this incredible avatar. We need to have stem cells from all the genetic sub-types that represent who we are. So this is what we've built. It's an automated robotic technology. It has the capacity to produce thousands and thousands of stem cell lines. It's genetically arrayed. It has massively parallel processing capability, and it's going to change the way drugs are discovered, we hope, and I think eventually what's going to happen is that we're going to want to re-screen drugs, on arrays like this, that already exist, all of the drugs that currently exist, and in the future, you're going to be taking drugs and treatments that have been tested for side effects on all of the relevant cells, on brain cells and heart cells and liver cells. It really has brought us to the threshold of personalized medicine. It's here now, and in our family, my son has type 1 diabetes, which is still an incurable disease, and I lost my parents to heart disease and cancer, but I think that my story probably sounds familiar to you, because probably a version of it is your story. At some point in our lives, all of us, or people we care about, become patients, and that's why I think that stem cell research is incredibly important for all of us. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause)"	"在人的身體裡有一種神奇的細胞叫做胚胎幹細胞這就像是身體裡的修補工具而且這些細胞具有多樣的潛能,可以變成我們身體裡的各種細胞在不久的將來, 我們應該可以利用這些幹細胞來替換身體裡損壞了的或是生病了的細胞 不過呢, 今天我所要談的不是這個方向今天要談的是關於我們正在進行的關於幹細胞的特殊研究這將會完全改變我們看待與學習疾病的方式以及我們對於為什麼人會生病的研究甚至於是藥物的開發我深信幹細胞的研究, 可以讓我們的下一代面對阿茲海默症(老年癡呆)或是糖尿病這些重大疾病時就如同我們現在面對脊髓灰質炎(小兒麻痺)一般能有預防的方法 在幹細胞這個奇妙的研究領域有著人類的許多新希望但是就如同試管嬰兒這個研究領域一直到了35年前第一個健康的試管嬰兒 露薏絲 的誕生 (1978.07.25)才脫離了政治上與經費上的困境重要而具有爭議性的研究經常被質疑的而不是被支持所以我們認為, 一個私立的研究避風港讓這些研究不受干擾是非常重要的所以在2005年我們成立了 紐約幹細胞基金會實驗室這樣我們就可以有個小型組織來資助並進行相關的研究 我們很快的就發現到在醫學研究還有藥物與療程的發展這兩個領域如大家所預期的, 是由大型的組織所主宰的但是這些大型組織, 在面對新的領域時常常會受限於既有的模式有時候無法發現正確的問題方向而且在兩者之間鴻溝日益擴大一邊是學術研究另一邊是研發新藥與療程的藥廠與生技公司我們認為, 若想要加速藥物與治療方式的發展,我們必須注重兩件事情新的技術, 還有新的研究模式因為如果不弭平兩邊的鴻溝我們只會停留在目前的困境中這就是我想要強調的我們花了過去幾年的時光在這上頭列出了我們想做的一些研究主題開發了一個新的技術包括軟體與硬體可以用來產生數以百萬計的不同的遺傳多樣性幹細胞系列, 來建構一個全面性的陣列, 本質上就是我們的多重化身我們做這件事的出發點, 是基於想要了解人類基因序列的各種潛在可能性以這種方式我們將可以在培養皿裡面針對真的人體細胞進行各項臨床實驗而不是以動物的細胞, 來進行藥物與療程的開發這將會是一種更有效, 更安全更快速, 更便宜的做法 接下來讓我先作一些說明讓各位了解相關的背景這是一個非常新的研究領域人類的胚胎幹細胞, 在 1998 年第一次被分離出來, 而在僅僅九年之後一群日本的科學家, 發展出了將表皮細胞透過非常強力的病毒進行改造產出了一種具有多種潛能的幹細胞叫做 誘導式多能性幹細胞簡稱 IPS 細胞這是一個非常重要的突破, 因為雖然這種幹細胞並不是 人類胚胎幹細胞不算是 研究上的黃金標準等級的幹細胞但是仍然非常的有用, 可以用來建構疾病的模型也有機會用來發展新藥 在幾個月之後, 我們的一位科學家, 在 2008年的時候以前面提到的研究為基礎, 從一個 漸凍人(ALS),在英國也稱為 運動神經元疾病的患者的表皮組織切片培養出前面提到的 IPS 細胞並且將這些 IPS 細胞轉化為在這種漸凍人疾病中實際會逐漸凋亡的運動神經元細胞所以基本上我們可以把患者身上的一個健康的細胞轉化成具有該病症的生病細胞並且在培養皿裡面一次又一次重覆這樣的程序這是一個非凡的成果因為這是我們第一次可以掌握一個疾病的模型直接從病人的身上取得的活體細胞來研究當他觀察這個疾病的過程時, 發現到這些運動神經元細胞的實際致死因素與先前研究所認知的不同是由於有另一種細胞釋放出了某種毒素才導致了運動神經元的凋亡而這樣的發現只有透過這種新的人體細胞模式才有辦法被觀察到 所以基本上可以這樣說研究者在研究疾病原因的時候如果沒有辦法透過人體幹細胞這種方式就好像墜機事件的調查員想找出飛機到底出了什麼差錯而墜毀卻沒有找到黑盒子 (飛行記錄器) 一般的困難他們可以假設一些可能出錯的原因但是卻無法明白導致悲慘事件的真正成因而幹細胞就是我們研究疾病時的黑盒子這種方式開啟了一個嶄新的門戶這真的是一項非比尋常的突破因為你可以在培養皿裡面, 一再重複各種疾病的進程觀察到在細胞層次的轉換發生了什麼問題可以早到病人身上都還沒有出現疾病癥狀之前而這樣的研究也開啟了一種可能性在不久的將來, 以人體細胞來進行藥物測試可以成為標準的研究流程 在目前, 進行藥物測試的方法有相當多的問題要把一種新藥導入到市場平均要花13年的時間並且花費40億美元的成本, 才能完成而且在新藥研發的統計上只有百分之一的比例能成功進行到市場導入的階段你無法想像在其他的行業中在發展並成功推出一項新產品時會有這麼高的成本與時間這樣的模式在商業上來看很糟糕從社會的角度來看更糟糕這些成本都是我們要去負擔的在目前開發新藥的方式是將一些可能具有效果的化合物在還沒有人體細胞的疾病模式的方式之前只能利用老鼠或是其他動物的細胞來進行藥物實驗但是這些被拿來做實驗的動物細胞並不具備我們想治療的疾病的特性畢竟人不是老鼠你也不能直接找一個病人直接取出他的腦細胞或是心血管細胞拿到實驗室裡來測試可能具有療效的新藥而我們發展出這種人體幹細胞的研究方式之後就可以製造出疾病患者的各種細胞分身例如 運動神經元細胞心血管細胞, 肝臟細胞來進行藥物測試可能有效的化合物, 用在實際的細胞上來驗證想要發生的效果, 現在有辦法做到了.這絕對是空前的突破你將可以在一開始的時候從藥物分析開發與測試的最早階段而不是等了13年的時間直到藥物導入市場的階段, 才發現沒有療效甚至更糟的, 是會傷害到人體的 更進一步來說,只從一小群人的細胞 來做這樣的實驗是不夠的如果我們退一步來看必須從更廣泛的角度來思考就以這個房間裡的人來說, 大家都不一樣一種疾病對我的影響比如說 阿茲海默症 或是 巴金森氏症很可能會不同於另外一個得到相同疾病的人就算兩個人得到相同的 帕金森(Parkinson's)症採取相同的治療方式與藥物也可能因為兩個人的基因組成不同而產生不同的治療結果有可能同樣的藥物對其中一人有神奇的療效對另一個人卻完全沒有效果同樣的, 一種藥可能對你產生傷害對我卻是安全的. 這聽起來很明顯的道理卻不幸地沒有被製藥產業在開發藥物時進行實施因為在今天之前, 並沒有適當的工具可用. 我們必須脫離這種""一視同仁"" 的模式過去的藥物發展方式就像是進到一家鞋店沒有人問你腳的尺寸也沒人管你是要用來跳舞或健行店員只告訴你, ""嗯, 你有一雙腳, 我們賣你這雙鞋""這樣賣鞋是行不通的. 而人的身體比穿鞋的腳要複雜上許多倍所以這樣的方式真的需要改變. 在過去的十年間, 有一個不幸的例子有一種藥, 詳細點說來是一種藥系叫做 Vioxx 的關節炎藥品對於關節疼痛的患者簡直就是救命仙丹但不幸的對於其中的一些患者會產生嚴重的心臟方面的副作用這些產生副作用的患者中有些還因此而死亡如果能在未來採用不同的做法想像我們能有一個在基因上多樣化的陣列的心血管細胞類型, 我們可以測試這種Vioxx 藥物在培養皿裡就能發現到某種基因類型的人, 會產生心血管方面的副作用另外一些種類基因類型的人大約有 25,000 種,是不會產生副作用的那麼這些人仍然可以使用這種藥物當作是關節疼痛的救命仙丹而另外那些會產生致命副作用的人就不會被開立這種藥的處方你可以想像這家藥廠, 將可以有完全不同於完全回收這種藥物所造成的下場 (股價大跌) 這樣不是很棒嗎?所以呢,當我們試著解決這個問題的時候很明確的我們必須考慮基因學我們必須考慮藥物的人體測試而且還有個更根本的難題就是目前這些幹細胞系列雖然如此的非凡與特別仍然只是一群的細胞必須用人工一個一個的培育每次需要花上幾個月的時間這樣是無法擴大規模的, 而且用手工的方式就算是在最好的實驗室也會因為操作技巧而造成差異但是在藥物的生產上必須要能一致化你買了一瓶阿斯匹靈打開來,星期一拿出一顆來吃跟你在星期三拿出來吃的那顆是完全相同的從這點來看, 我們知道手工生產是不錯的, 如果是衣服麵包或是工藝品這些東西但如果是 幹細胞 的生產, 手工是行不通的這個問題必須被解決 除此之外, 還有另外一個大難題就是回歸到人的基因序列每個人都不一樣每個人的基因序列都是由四種核苷酸 A, C, G, T組成我們的基因碼但是這些基因碼, 就是我們的 DNA就像是電腦裡面的 1 與 0 這些位元碼但是我們並沒有能讀基因碼的電腦我們現在就像是有了手機APP但是還沒有智慧型手機我們需要找出一種方式, 將生物學對應到這些基因碼而可行的方式是找到一種生物學上的 替身可以涵蓋所有的基因資訊並且能夠進行各種基因排列並且能夠被解讀而且實際製作出各種特別的分身我們需要收集各種基因類型的幹細胞來代表各種類型的人 這裡可以看到我們已經發展的一套自動化機械化的技術具備產生數以百萬計的幹細胞系列的能力能夠產生多樣化的基因陣列可以進行大規模的平行作業這將會改變發現新藥的方式我們衷心的希望, 而且相信在未來遲早會成真就是對藥物重新進行檢測用已收集到的各種幹細胞基因系列,來檢測目前存在的所有藥物而在未來, 我們所服用的藥物還有所接受的治療都會事先被測試過, 對身體的各種器官的細胞是否會產生副作用例如 腦細胞 心血管細胞 肝細胞 等等 這將會帶領我們進到一個新的境界製藥個人化的時代我們所遭遇的, 就以我自己為例我的兒子患有第一型的糖尿病這在目前是無法治癒的我的父母親死於心臟病與癌症這聽起來可能讓你覺得很熟悉也許你也有類似的遭遇在我們的人生中, 我們自己或是我們在意的人, 都有生病的時候這就是為什麼我們認為, 幹細胞研究對於每個人來說, 都是非常重要的謝謝大家(掌聲)"
