Talk	en	zh-tw
suzana_herculano_houzel_what_is_so_special_about_the_human_brain	"What is so special about the human brain? Why is it that we study other animals instead of them studying us? What does a human brain have or do that no other brain does? When I became interested in these questions about 10 years ago, scientists thought they knew what different brains were made of. Though it was based on very little evidence, many scientists thought that all mammalian brains, including the human brain, were made in the same way, with a number of neurons that was always proportional to the size of the brain. This means that two brains of the same size, like these two, with a respectable 400 grams, should have similar numbers of neurons. Now, if neurons are the functional information processing units of the brain, then the owners of these two brains should have similar cognitive abilities. And yet, one is a chimp, and the other is a cow. Now maybe cows have a really rich internal mental life and are so smart that they choose not to let us realize it, but we eat them. I think most people will agree that chimps are capable of much more complex, elaborate and flexible behaviors than cows are. So this is a first indication that the ""all brains are made the same way"" scenario is not quite right. But let's play along. If all brains were made the same way and you were to compare animals with brains of different sizes, larger brains should always have more neurons than smaller brains, and the larger the brain, the more cognitively able its owner should be. So the largest brain around should also be the most cognitively able. And here comes the bad news: Our brain, not the largest one around. It seems quite vexing. Our brain weighs between 1.2 and 1.5 kilos, but elephant brains weigh between four and five kilos, and whale brains can weigh up to nine kilos, which is why scientists used to resort to saying that our brain must be special to explain our cognitive abilities. It must be really extraordinary, an exception to the rule. Theirs may be bigger, but ours is better, and it could be better, for example, in that it seems larger than it should be, with a much larger cerebral cortex than we should have for the size of our bodies. So that would give us extra cortex to do more interesting things than just operating the body. That's because the size of the brain usually follows the size of the body. So the main reason for saying that our brain is larger than it should be actually comes from comparing ourselves to great apes. Gorillas can be two to three times larger than we are, so their brains should also be larger than ours, but instead it's the other way around. Our brain is three times larger than a gorilla brain. The human brain also seems special in the amount of energy that it uses. Although it weighs only two percent of the body, it alone uses 25 percent of all the energy that your body requires to run per day. That's 500 calories out of a total of 2,000 calories, just to keep your brain working. So the human brain is larger than it should be, it uses much more energy than it should, so it's special. And this is where the story started to bother me. In biology, we look for rules that apply to all animals and to life in general, so why should the rules of evolution apply to everybody else but not to us? Maybe the problem was with the basic assumption that all brains are made in the same way. Maybe two brains of a similar size can actually be made of very different numbers of neurons. Maybe a very large brain does not necessarily have more neurons than a more modest-sized brain. Maybe the human brain  actually has the most neurons of any brain, regardless of its size, especially in the cerebral cortex. So this to me became the important question to answer: how many neurons does the human brain have, and how does that compare to other animals? Now, you may have heard or read somewhere that we have 100 billion neurons, so 10 years ago, I asked my colleagues if they knew where this number came from. But nobody did. I've been digging through the literature for the original reference for that number, and I could never find it. It seems that nobody had actually ever counted the number of neurons in the human brain, or in any other brain for that matter. So I came up with my own way to count cells in the brain, and it essentially consists of dissolving that brain into soup. It works like this: You take a brain, or parts of that brain, and you dissolve it in detergent, which destroys the cell membranes but keeps the cell nuclei intact, so you end up with a suspension of free nuclei that looks like this, like a clear soup. This soup contains all the nuclei that once were a mouse brain. Now, the beauty of a soup is that because it is soup, you can agitate it and make those nuclei be distributed homogeneously in the liquid, so that now by looking under the microscope at just four or five samples of this homogeneous solution, you can count nuclei, and therefore tell how many cells that brain had. It's simple, it's straightforward, and it's really fast. So we've used that method to count neurons in dozens of different species so far, and it turns out that all brains are not made the same way. Take rodents and primates, for instance: In larger rodent brains, the average size of the neuron increases, so the brain inflates very rapidly and gains size much faster than it gains neurons. But primate brains gain neurons without the average neuron becoming any larger, which is a very economical way to add neurons to your brain. The result is that a primate brain will always have more neurons than a rodent brain of the same size, and the larger the brain, the larger this difference will be. Well, what about our brain then? We found that we have, on average, 86 billion neurons, 16 billion of which are in the cerebral cortex, and if you consider that the cerebral cortex is the seat of functions like awareness and logical and abstract reasoning, and that 16 billion is the most neurons that any cortex has, I think this is the simplest explanation for our remarkable cognitive abilities. But just as important is what the 86 billion neurons mean. Because we found that the relationship between the size of the brain and its number of neurons could be described mathematically, we could calculate what a human brain would look like if it was made like a rodent brain. So, a rodent brain with 86 billion neurons would weigh 36 kilos. That's not possible. A brain that huge would be crushed by its own weight, and this impossible brain would go in the body of 89 tons. I don't think it looks like us. So this brings us to a very important conclusion already, which is that we are not rodents. The human brain is not a large rat brain. Compared to a rat, we might seem special, yes, but that's not a fair comparison to make, given that we know that we are not rodents. We are primates, so the correct comparison is to other primates. And there, if you do the math, you find that a generic primate with 86 billion neurons would have a brain of about 1.2 kilos, which seems just right, in a body of some 66 kilos, which in my case is exactly right, which brings us to a very unsurprising but still incredibly important conclusion: I am a primate. And all of you are primates. And so was Darwin. I love to think that Darwin would have really appreciated this. His brain, like ours, was made in the image of other primate brains. So the human brain may be remarkable, yes, but it is not special in its number of neurons. It is just a large primate brain. I think that's a very humbling and sobering thought that should remind us of our place in nature. Why does it cost so much energy, then? Well, other people have figured out how much energy the human brain and that of other species costs, and now that we knew how many neurons each brain was made of, we could do the math. And it turns out that both human and other brains cost about the same, an average of six calories  per billion neurons per day. So the total energetic cost of a brain is a simple, linear function of its number of neurons, and it turns out that the human brain costs just as much energy as you would expect. So the reason why the human brain costs so much energy is simply because it has a huge number of neurons, and because we are primates with many more neurons for a given body size than any other animal, the relative cost of our brain is large, but just because we're primates, not because we're special. Last question, then: how did we come by this remarkable number of neurons, and in particular, if great apes are larger than we are, why don't they have a larger brain  than we do, with more neurons? When we realized how much expensive it is to have a lot of neurons in the brain, I figured, maybe there's a simple reason. They just can't afford the energy for both a large body  and a large number of neurons. So we did the math. We calculated on the one hand how much energy a primate gets per day from eating raw foods, and on the other hand, how much energy a body of a certain size costs and how much energy a brain of a certain number of neurons costs, and we looked for the combinations of body size and number of brain neurons that a primate could afford if it ate a certain number of hours per day. And what we found is that because neurons are so expensive, there is a tradeoff between body size and number of neurons. So a primate that eats eight hours per day can afford at most 53 billion neurons, but then its body cannot be any bigger than 25 kilos. To weigh any more than that, it has to give up neurons. So it's either a large body or a large number of neurons. When you eat like a primate, you can't afford both. One way out of this metabolic limitation would be to spend even more hours per day eating, but that gets dangerous, and past a certain point, it's just not possible. Gorillas and orangutans, for instance, afford about 30 billion neurons by spending eight and a half hours per day eating, and that seems to be about as much as they can do. Nine hours of feeding per day seems to be the practical limit for a primate. What about us? With our 86 billion neurons and 60 to 70 kilos of body mass, we should have to spend over nine hours per day every single day feeding, which is just not feasible. If we ate like a primate, we should not be here. How did we get here, then? Well, if our brain costs just as much energy as it should, and if we can't spend every waking hour of the day feeding, then the only alternative, really, is to somehow get more energy out of the same foods. And remarkably, that matches exactly what our ancestors are believed to have invented one and a half million years ago, when they invented cooking. To cook is to use fire to pre-digest foods outside of your body. Cooked foods are softer, so they're easier to chew and to turn completely into mush in your mouth, so that allows them to be completely digested and absorbed in your gut, which makes them yield much more energy in much less time. So cooking frees time for us to do much more interesting things with our day and with our neurons than just thinking about food, looking for food, and gobbling down food all day long. So because of cooking, what once was a major liability, this large, dangerously expensive brain with a lot of neurons, could now become a major asset, now that we could both afford  the energy for a lot of neurons and the time to do interesting things with them. So I think this explains why the human brain grew to become so large so fast in evolution, all of the while remaining just a primate brain. With this large brain now affordable by cooking, we went rapidly from raw foods to culture, agriculture, civilization, grocery stores, electricity, refrigerators, all of those things that nowadays allow us to get all the energy we need for the whole day in a single sitting at your favorite fast food joint. So what once was a solution now became the problem, and ironically, we look for the solution in raw food. So what is the human advantage? What is it that we have that no other animal has? My answer is that we have the largest number of neurons in the cerebral cortex, and I think that's the simplest explanation for our remarkable cognitive abilities. And what is it that we do that no other animal does, and which I believe was fundamental to allow us to reach that large, largest number of neurons in the cortex? In two words, we cook. No other animal cooks its food. Only humans do. And I think that's how we got to become human. Studying the human brain changed  the way I think about food. I now look at my kitchen, and I bow to it, and I thank my ancestors for coming up with the invention that probably made us humans. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	人類的腦有什麼特別的呢？為何是我們研究其它動物的腦而不是我們的被研究呢？人腦擁有什麼其它動物的腦沒有的呢？十幾年前我開始對這類的問題感興趣那時的科學家自認已知差異所在即便可依據的證據非常少許多科學家認為所有哺乳類的腦包括人類的頭腦都有著相同的構造有著一定數量的神經元而數量與腦的大小成正比例這表示同樣大小的兩個腦例如這兩約400公克的應有差不多數量的神經元如果神經元是腦裡面訊息處理的最小單位那這兩腦的主人應該有著差不多一樣的認知能力然而一個是黑猩猩的另一個是乳牛的或許乳牛有著心靈極豐富的內在美聰明到不讓我們發現這些但我們吃牠們我想大部分的人會同意黑猩猩比乳牛更有能力處理複雜、精細且有彈性的行為所以這意味著「所有腦都有相同的構造」的想法不完全正確 但先讓我們繼續下去如果所有腦的構造都是一樣的你比較動物之間不同大小的腦那較大的腦就該有較多的神經元腦愈大的話其主人也該有較強的認知能力所以世上最大的腦都該有最強大的認知能力但壞消息來了我們人類的腦不是最大的這聽起來有點傷腦筋我們人類的腦大約是 1.2~1.5 公斤但大象的腦是 4~5 公斤而鯨的腦重達 9 公斤這就是為何科學家總是說我們的腦一定是特別這有便於解釋我們的認知能力我們的腦一定是很非比尋常排除在一般規則外牠們的腦或許更大但我們的更好舉例來說我們的腦比它應該有的樣子更大而且依我們身軀的大小來看它有著超過應有的大腦皮質數量這些「過多」的大腦皮質讓我們做出比操控身軀更多有趣的事情因為通常腦的大小跟身材的大小有關係主要會說「我們的腦比它應有的樣子更大」是來自於我們跟大猩猩作的比較大猩猩的身材比我們大上二到三倍所以牠們的腦也該比我們的大才對事實上卻相反我們的腦比大猩猩的大上三倍 從能量消耗的角度來看人類的腦也是很特別的雖然腦只佔身體重量的 2%光是它就消耗了身體每天需要25% 的能量也就是一天 2,000 卡路里中的 500 卡都是花在腦的運作上 人腦不僅比它應有的大小還大且還消耗掉更多能量所以說它是特別的這也是一開始困擾我的地方在生物學上我們尋找規則可以大體上適用於所有的動物和生命但為什麼演化的規則適用於所有生物，但不包括我們呢?或許問題就在於「所有腦的構造都是一樣的」這個假設上或許兩個大小相近的腦其實可以有著非常不同數量的神經元或許一個非常大的腦並不需要比一般大小的腦需要更多的神經元或許不管人腦的大小都比其他生物擁有最多的神經元尤其是在大腦皮質這部分這些讓我想到一個待解答的重要問題：人類的腦有多少神經元？答案可如何與其它動物做比較呢？ 你可能聽過或在哪讀到我們有一千億個神經元十前年我問我的同事知不知這數字哪來的結果沒人知道我翻閱所有的文獻想找出這數字最原始的出處但我也沒辦法找到看來似乎沒有人真正算出過人類的腦究竟有多少個神經元其它的腦也一樣沒數出來過 所以我用自己的方法來數這方法基本上是把大腦溶解在一碗湯裡就像這樣你拿出一個或部分的腦用某種溶劑溶解它破壞掉細胞壁但保留細胞核完整這樣你就有自由懸浮的細胞核看起來就會像這樣一碗清湯這碗湯內有一隻鼠腦所有的細胞核這碗湯的好處就在於因為它是一碗湯你可攪動它讓細胞核均勻散布在液體中然後只需要在顯微鏡之下觀察這碗湯中四到五個樣本數算細胞核的數量就可得知這個腦有多少個細胞了這既簡單又直接而且迅速所以我們利用這方法計數十種不同物種的神經元得到的結果是所有的腦都不具有相同的構造以嚙齒動物和靈長類為例較大隻的嚙齒動物腦中其神經元的平均大小變大腦就可迅速變大腦變大的速度比增加神經元快但靈長類的腦可在神經元沒有變大的情況下增加數量這使得增加腦的神經元數量上變得非常有效率結果顯示同樣大小的腦靈長類的神經元數量都會超過嚙齒類的而且腦愈大這差異就顯得愈大那我們的腦呢？平均來講我們有 860億個神經元其中的 160億都在大腦皮質裡如果你認為大腦皮質的功能中心是像認知 、邏輯 、抽象理解力那腦皮層中的160億就比其他任何大腦皮質擁有最多的數量了我認為這是我們人類卓越的認知能力最簡單的解釋了同樣重要的是這860億個神經元意味著什?因為我們發現到腦的大小和神經元數量的關係可以用數學的方式描述我們可計算出如果人腦的構造像嚙齒動物的會怎麼樣呢?若嚙齒動物的腦有 860億的神經元體重就會重達 36公斤這是不可能的事情這麼大的一個腦會被自己的重量壓垮要這麼重大的腦搭配一個 89公噸的身體是件讓我難以想像的東西 這為我們今天下一個很重要的結論我們不是嚙齒動物人腦沒有嚙齒動物搬的大腦比起老鼠我們的看起來特別多了但這樣比較並不公平因為我們知道我們不是嚙齒動物我們是靈長類所以跟其它的靈長類動物作比較才正確所以計算一下的話你會發現一般靈長類動物擁有860億的神經元腦就會重約 1.2公斤搭配重達 66公斤的身軀看起來似乎合理這剛好是我自身的例子這結果雖然一點也不意外但還是下了一個很重要的結論：我是靈長類動物你們全部也是靈長類動物 達爾文也是我猜想達爾文也會很喜歡這項結論他的腦跟我們一樣構造都是與其它靈長類相同的 沒錯，人腦或許較卓越但在神經元的數量方面就沒什特別的它不過是大的靈長類的頭腦我想這是一個非常謙虛和中肯的想法提醒我們在大自然中扮演的角色 為何它會消耗如此多的能量？有人已經估算出人類和其它動物的腦所消耗的能量現在了解每種腦有多少神經元我們就可做些計算結果發現人類和其它動物的腦消耗方式差不多一樣每天平均每 10億個神經元消耗 6卡一個腦所消耗的能量和它的神經元數量成了一個簡單的線性關係所以人腦消耗的能量就跟你估算的一樣多所以人腦為什麼會消耗許多能量單純是因為它有較多神經元的關係作為靈長類比起身體大小類似的動物我們擁有更多的神經元腦也就消耗較多能量這單純是因為我們是靈長類動物的關係 不是因為我們特別 最後一個問題：我們是如何有這麼多的神經元？明確地說如果大猩猩身體比我們大為何沒有較大的腦和更多的神經元呢？當理解到擁有許多神經元的同時也就需要燃燒更多的能量時我推測或許這就是原因－大猩猩無法同時供給能量應付龐大的身軀和大量的神經元我們計算過一方面計算出大猩猩一天從食物中獲得多少能量另一方面計算特定大小的身軀要消耗多少能量還有一定數量的神經元所消耗的能量然後我們一併查看如果牠一天進食固定的時數牠可以提供多少能量給多大的身軀和多少的神經元數量 我們發現到因為神經元消耗太多這是身軀大小和神經元數量之間的妥協一個靈長類一天進食八小時可提供最多 530億個神經元的能量但同時牠的身軀無法超過25公斤如果增加體重則須捨棄神經元所以只能單單擁有龐大的身軀或只能單單擁有大量的神經元如果你像靈長類一樣進食你無法同時有這兩項 跳脫這限制的其中一個方法是每天花更多時間進食但這會提高危險所以這方法行不通以大猩猩和紅毛猩猩為例為了養活大約 300億個神經元每天要花8.5小時進食這已經是它們所能做的了每天進食九小時應是靈長類的極限 那我們呢？我們有 860億個神經元體重約 60~70公斤我們每一天應該都要花超過九小時在進食上但這不可行如果我們像靈長類一樣的吃我們就不會在這裡了 那我們是怎麼辦到的？如果我們的腦真的需要大量的能量應付而且又不能花每個清醒的時刻在進食上另一個替代方式就是從同樣的食物中用某種方式得到更多能量很神奇的這完全符合我們的假設－150萬年前我們的祖先發明了烹煮烹煮是利用火在我們身外先消化好食物煮過的食物較軟 易咀嚼能在嘴裡完全嚼碎好讓胃能夠完全消化供你吸收這樣就能在較短的時間內獲取更多的能量所以烹煮讓我們有更多的時間利用我們的時間和神經元從事更多有趣的事情這樣就不用為了老是要找食物，趕著吃然後花掉一整天的時間 也因為烹煮的關係讓這一度為了應付巨量神經元消耗能量過度的腦變成現在主要的資產讓我們可以同時提供能量給大量神經元也能花時間利用它們從事有趣的事所以我認為這說明了為何人腦能夠在演化中迅速變大即便仍使用靈長類的腦也因為烹煮可養活這大腦的關係我們很快速地從生食發展到養殖農、文明、雜貨店電力、電冰箱現今的這一切讓我們可以在喜歡的速食店內一次消費支撐一整天所需的能量而過去的解決之道卻成了當今的問題很諷刺地，我們在生食中尋求解答 那人類的優勢是什麼？我們擁有什麼其它動物沒有的呢?我們的大腦皮質成了答案它擁有最多的神經元我想這為我們卓越的認知能力提供了簡單好懂的解釋那是什麼讓我們做其它動物做不到的呢?我認為最基本的方式讓我們擁有卓越大腦且含大量神經元的大腦皮質只有歸於兩個字－　烹煮其它動物不會煮食物，只有人類會我認為這就是為何我們身為人類 研究人腦改變我對食物的看法現在我看著我的廚房都跟它敬禮我感謝我的祖先發明這些讓我們得以成為人類謝謝大家(鼓掌)
