Talk	en	zh-tw
suzanne_talhouk_don_t_kill_your_language	"Good morning! Are you awake? They took my name tag, but I wanted to ask you, did anyone here write their name on the tag in Arabic? Anyone! No one? All right, no problem. Once upon a time, not long ago, I was sitting in a restaurant with my friend, ordering food. So I looked at the waiter and said, ""Do you have a menu (Arabic)?"" He looked at me strangely, thinking that he misheard. He said, ""Sorry? (English)."" I said, ""The menu (Arabic), please."" He replied, ""Don't you know what they call it?"" ""I do."" He said, ""No! It's called ""menu"" (English), or ""menu"" (French)."" Is the French pronunciation correct? ""Come, come, take care of this one!"" said the waiter. He was disgusted when talking to me, as if he was saying to himself, ""If this was the last girl on Earth, I wouldn't look at her!"" What's the meaning of saying ""menu"" in Arabic? Two words made a Lebanese young man judge a girl as being backward and ignorant. How could she speak that way? At that moment, I started thinking. It made me mad. It definitely hurts! I'm denied the right to speak my own language in my own country? Where could this happen? How did we get here? Well, while we are here, there are many people like me, who would reach a stage in their lives, where they involuntarily give up everything that has happened to them in the past, just so they can say that they're modern and civilized. Should I forget all my culture, thoughts, intellect and all my memories? Childhood stories might be the best memories we have of the war! Should I forget everything I learned in Arabic, just to conform? To be one of them? Where's the logic in that? Despite all that, I tried to understand him. I didn't want to judge him with the same cruelty that he judged me. The Arabic language doesn't satisfy today's needs. It's not a language for science, research, a language we're used to in universities, a language we use in the workplace, a language we rely on if we were to perform an advanced research project, and it definitely isn't a language we use at the airport. If we did so, they'd strip us of our clothes. Where can I use it, then? We could all ask this question! So, you want us to use Arabic. Where are we to do so? This is one reality. But we have another more important reality that we ought to think about. Arabic is the mother tongue. Research says that mastery of other languages demands mastery of the mother tongue. Mastery of the mother tongue is a prerequisite for creative expression in other languages. How? Gibran Khalil Gibran, when he first started writing, he used Arabic. All his ideas, imagination and philosophy were inspired by this little boy in the village where he grew up, smelling a specific smell, hearing a specific voice, and thinking a specific thought. So, when he started writing in English, he had enough baggage. Even when he wrote in English, when you read his writings in English, you smell the same smell, sense the same feeling. You can imagine that that's him writing in English, the same boy who came from the mountain. From a village on Mount Lebanon. So, this is an example no one can argue with. Second, it's often said that if you want to kill a nation, the only way to kill a nation, is to kill its language. This is a reality that developed societies are aware of. The Germans, French, Japanese and Chinese, all these nations are aware of this. That's why they legislate to protect their language. They make it sacred. That's why they use it in production, they pay a lot of money to develop it. Do we know better than them? All right, we aren't from the developed world, this advanced thinking hasn't reached us yet, and we would like to catch up with the civilized world. Countries that were once like us, but decided to strive for development, do research, and catch up with those countries, such as Turkey, Malaysia and others, they carried their language with them as they were climbing the ladder, protected it like a diamond. They kept it close to them. Because if you get any product from Turkey or elsewhere and it's not labeled in Turkish, then it isn't a local product. You wouldn't believe it's a local product. They'd go back to being consumers, clueless consumers, like we are most of the time. So, in order for them to innovate and produce, they had to protect their language. If I say, ""Freedom, sovereignty, independence (Arabic),"" what does this remind you of? It doesn't ring a bell, does it? Regardless of the who, how and why. Language isn't just for conversing, just words coming out of our mouths. Language represents specific stages in our lives, and terminology that is linked to our emotions. So when we say, ""Freedom, sovereignty, independence,"" each one of you draws a specific image in their own mind, there are specific feelings of a specific day in a specific historical period. Language isn't one, two or three words or letters put together. It's an idea inside that relates to how we think, and how we see each other and how others see us. What is our intellect? How do you say whether this guy understands or not? So, if I say, ""Freedom, sovereignty, independence (English),"" or if your son came up to you and said, ""Dad, have you lived through the period of the freedom (English) slogan?"" How would you feel? If you don't see a problem, then I'd better leave, and stop talking in vain. The idea is that these expressions remind us of a specific thing. I have a francophone friend who's married to a French man. I asked her once how things were going. She said, ""Everything is fine, but once, I spent a whole night asking and trying to translate the meaning of the word 'toqborni' for him."" (Laughter) (Applause) The poor woman had mistakenly told him ""toqborni,"" and then spent the whole night trying to explain it to him. He was puzzled by the thought: ""How could anyone be this cruel? Does she want to commit suicide? 'Bury me?' (English)"" This is one of the few examples. It made us feel that she's unable to tell that word to her husband, since he won't understand, and he's right not to; his way of thinking is different. She said to me, ""He listens to Fairuz with me, and one night, I tried to translate for him so he can feel what I feel when I listen to Fairuz."" The poor woman tried to translate this for him: ""From them I extended my hands and stole you —"" (Laughter) And here's the pickle: ""And because you belong to them, I returned my hands and left you."" (Laughter) Translate that for me. (Applause) So, what have we done to protect the Arabic language? We turned this into a concern of the civil society, and we launched a campaign to preserve the Arabic language. Even though many people told me, ""Why do you bother? Forget about this headache and go have fun."" No problem! The campaign to preserve Arabic launched a slogan that says, ""I talk to you from the East, but you reply from the West."" We didn't say, ""No! We do not accept this or that."" We didn't adopt this style because that way, we wouldn't be understood. And when someone talks to me that way, I hate the Arabic language. We say— (Applause) We want to change our reality, and be convinced in a way that reflects our dreams, aspirations and day-to-day life. In a way that dresses like us and thinks like we do. So, ""I talk to you from the East, but you reply from the West"" has hit the spot. Something very easy, yet creative and persuasive. After that, we launched another campaign with scenes of letters on the ground. You've seen an example of it outside, a scene of a letter surrounded by black and yellow tape with ""Don't kill your language!"" written on it. Why? Seriously, don't kill your language. We really shouldn't kill our language. If we were to kill the language, we'd have to find an identity. We'd have to find an existence. We'd go back to the beginning. This is beyond just missing our chance of being modern and civilized. After that we released photos of guys and girls wearing the Arabic letter. Photos of ""cool"" guys and girls. We are very cool! And to whoever might say, ""Ha! You used an English word!"" I say, ""No! I adopt the word 'cool.'"" Let them object however they want, but give me a word that's nicer and matches the reality better. I will keep on saying ""Internet"" I wouldn't say: ""I'm going to the world wide web"" (Laughs) Because it doesn't fit! We shouldn't kid ourselves. But to reach this point, we all have to be convinced that we shouldn't allow anyone who is bigger or thinks they have any authority over us when it comes to language, to control us or make us think and feel what they want. Creativity is the idea. So, if we can't reach space or build a rocket and so on, we can be creative. At this moment, every one of you is a creative project. Creativity in your mother tongue is the path. Let's start from this moment. Let's write a novel or produce a short film. A single novel could make us global again. It could bring the Arabic language back to being number one. So, it's not true that there's no solution; there is a solution! But we have to know that, and be convinced that a solution exists, that we have a duty to be part of that solution. In conclusion, what can you do today? Now, tweets, who's tweeting? Please, I beg of you, even though my time has finished, either Arabic, English, French or Chinese. But don't write Arabic with Latin characters mixed with numbers! (Applause) It's a disaster! That's not a language. You'd be entering a virtual world with a virtual language. It's not easy to come back from such a place and rise. That's the first thing we can do. Second, there are many other things that we can do. We're not here today to convince each other. We're here to bring attention to the necessity of preserving this language. Now I will tell you a secret. A baby first identifies its father through language. When my daughter is born, I'll tell her, ""This is your father, honey (Arabic)."" I wouldn't say, ""This is your dad, honey (English)."" And in the supermarket, I promise my daughter Noor, that if she says to me, ""Thanks (Arabic),"" I won't say, ""Dis, 'Merci, Maman,'"" and hope no one has heard her. (Applause) Let's get rid of this cultural cringe. (Applause)"	"早上好！你們醒著嗎？他們拿走了我的名牌但我想問大家這裡有人是用阿拉伯語寫名牌的嗎？有嗎！沒有？好吧，沒事。不久以前我和朋友坐在餐廳裡點菜我望著侍應生說“你有菜單嗎？（阿拉伯語）”他很奇怪地望著我好像聽錯了一樣他說，“對不起？（英語）”我說，“菜單（阿拉伯語），謝謝”他回答說""難道你不知道這個怎麼說？""“我知道。”他說，“你不知道！這叫做“菜單”（英文），或者“菜單”（法文）”法語發音對嗎？“過來過來，這桌歸你管！”這侍應生說。他和我說話的時候表現得很厭煩就好像在心裡說“如果這是地球上剩下的唯一一個女孩，我也不會理她的！”用阿拉伯語說“菜單”這個動作的意義是什麽？這兩個字讓一個黎巴嫩的年輕男人覺得一個女孩落後而無知“她怎麼能那樣說話呢？”在那一刻，我開始思考這讓我憤怒這當然很傷人！我在我自己的國家被剝奪了說自己語言的權利？哪裡能有這樣的事？這怎麼會發生的？好吧，在這裡，有很多人和我一樣他們來到了人生一個這樣的階段不得不放棄過去發生在他們身上的一切才能藉此說明他們是文明的開化的我應該忘記我所有的文化、思想、才智，和我所有的回憶嗎？童年的故事可能是我們對戰爭擁有的最好記憶了！我應該爲了妥協而忘記所有我用阿拉伯語學到的東西嗎？就爲了成為芸芸眾生中的一員？這一切邏輯在哪裡？除了這些想法以外，我也試著去理解那個侍應生他很殘忍地評判我，但我不想那樣評判他阿拉伯語無法滿足現代的需要它不符合科學、研究的需要不是一門我們在大學裡習慣使用的語言不是我們在工作中用的語言我們如果要進行先進研究計劃的時候不會使用它而且它也絕不是我們會在機場使用的語言如果我們說了阿拉伯語他們會扒光我們的衣服來檢查那麼我可以在哪裡說阿拉伯語呢？我們大家都可以問這個問題！你要我們用阿拉伯語我們要在哪裡用呢？這是一種現狀但還有另一個更重要的現實問題值得我們思考阿拉伯語是母語研究表明，要掌握其他語言需要先掌握母語掌握母語是能用其他語言進行創造性表達的先決條件爲什麽？紀伯倫·哈利勒·紀伯倫（Gibran Khalil Gibran，黎巴嫩詩人）當他剛開始寫作的時候，用的是阿拉伯語他所有的想法、想像力和哲學思考都是被他當年還是一個村莊裡的小男孩時賦予的靈感聞到的味道聽到的聲音以及思考的想法所以當他開始用英語寫作時他有了足夠的儲備甚至在他用英文寫作你讀那些作品時，還是會聞到一樣的味道有一樣的感覺你想像得到，是同一個來自山裡的小男孩來自黎巴嫩山村裡的小男孩在用英語寫作這是一個無可爭議的例子第二，人們經常說如果你要滅掉一個國家毀滅一個國家唯一的辦法是消滅它的語言這是發達社會意識到的一個現實德國、法國、日本、中國這些國家都知道這個道理這是爲什麽他們都立法來保護他們的語言他們讓自己的母語變得神聖。這是爲什麽他們在生產製作中使用母語花很多錢來發展語言我們比他們更知道這點嗎？好吧我們不發達還不知道這種先進的想法但我們想要追上這個文明世界的腳步有些國家曾經和我們的現狀一樣但努力發展做科學研究趕上發達國家腳步比如土耳其，馬來西亞，以及其他一些國家他們在攀登階梯的時候都保持了自己的語言像鑽石一樣保護語言他們始終和母語緊密聯繫如果你在土耳其或其他地方買的產品沒有土耳其文標籤那一定不是當地產的你不相信這是當地產的他們需要回到消費者的心理理解一個毫無頭緒的消費者就像我們大多數時候一樣所以爲了創新和生產他們需要保護自己的語言如果我說，“自由，尊嚴，獨立（阿拉伯語）”你會想到什麽？沒什麼共鳴，是吧？不管是誰，怎樣，爲什麽語言不僅僅是爲了說話不僅是我們嘴裡蹦出來的詞彙語言體現了我們人生中特定的階段以及和情緒聯繫在一起的名詞所以當我們說“自由，尊嚴，獨立”你們每個人都在自己腦海中畫了一幅畫裡面有對某個特殊歷史階段中特殊一天的特殊感覺語言並不是兩三個單詞拼湊在一起語言是關於我們怎樣思考我們怎麼看其他人、以及其他人怎麼看我們的想法才智是指什麽？你會怎麼說這個人是否理解了？所以，如果我說，“自由，尊嚴，獨立（英語）”或者，你的兒子到你面前說“爸爸，你經歷過自由（英語）標語的時代嗎？”你會怎樣感覺？如果你不覺得有問題，那麼我最好現在就走，放棄徒勞的演說我的意思是，這些話應該提醒我們想起一些特別的事我有一位說法語的朋友嫁給了一個法國人有一次我問她近況如何她說“一切都很好，但就有一次，我花了整個晚上去向他解釋‘toqborni’的意思。”（阿拉伯語，直譯為“請把我埋起來”，意思是我深愛著你）（笑聲）（掌聲）這個可憐的女人不小心和他說了“toqborni”然後花了一整個晚上來解釋。她丈夫感到非常困惑：“怎麼會有人這麼殘忍呢？她想自殺嗎？‘把我埋起來’（英語）？”這是例子之一。這讓我們覺得，她不可能把意思解釋清楚。因為他理解不了而且他也確實理解不了：思維的方式不一樣。她和我說：“他和我一起聽Fairuz（黎巴嫩歌手），有天晚上，我試著給他翻譯這樣他就能體會我聽Fairuz的感覺。”這個可憐的女人試著去翻譯這些話：“從他們那裡，我伸出手，把你偷來 ——”（笑聲）現在來句難的：“因為你屬於他們，我收回手，把你留下”（笑聲）幫我翻譯這句話。（掌聲）那麼，我們做了什麽去保護阿拉伯語呢？我們把對語言的重視轉化成文明社會的需要然後我們爲了保護阿拉伯語開始了活動。儘管很多人和我說，""你爲什麽要去自討苦吃呢？忘記這頭疼的事，去享受生活吧。”沒事！這個保護阿語活動有一個口號：“我從東方對你說話，你卻用西方的方式回答我”我們沒有說：“不！我們不接受這樣或者那樣。”我們沒有用那樣的方式，因為那樣更沒有人會理解我們了而且當別人用那樣的方式和我說話時我討厭阿拉伯語。我們說——（掌聲）我們想要改變現狀而且需要這樣確信這種表達方式反映了我們的夢想、激情和日常生活如同我們一樣表達和思考所以我們說“我從東方對你說話，而你卻從西方回答”這句話正中目標很簡單，卻很有創意和說服力在那之後，我們又發起了另一個活動是在地上用字母構成場景你在外面看到其中一個例子那是一個字母被黑色和黃色膠帶包圍上面寫著“不要殺死你的語言！”爲什麽？真的，不要殺死你的語言。我們真的不該殺死我們的語言。如果我們失去了我們的語言就要去尋找另一個身份尋找自己的存在我們會需要一切從頭開始這中間的意義絕不僅僅是失去成為現代文明社會的機會之後，我們發佈了男孩女孩們身穿阿拉伯字母的照片很“酷”的男孩和女孩的照片我們很酷！如果有人說""哈！你用了一個英語的詞！""我會回答，“不！我只是把'cool'這個詞收為己用了。”如果他們要反對就讓他們去吧，但請給我一個更好更貼合現實的詞我會繼續說“網際網路”(internet)我不會說，“我要去上世界萬維網”（笑聲）因為那不現實！我們不該自欺欺人。但是到了這裡，我們都該相信不能允許任何“重要人物”或者認為在語言問題上統治我們的人來控制我們，逼我們用他們想要的方式去思考和感受。創新是關鍵。即便我們不能去太空，不能造火箭什麽的我們仍然可以有創意。在這一刻，你們每個人都是一個創新的課題你母語中蘊含的創造力就是我們該遵循的道路讓我們從現在開始讓我們寫一部小說，拍一部短片一本小說就可能讓我們重新聞名全球它可能讓阿拉伯語重回世界第一語言誰說沒有出路；我們有辦法！但是我們必須知道而且確信，我們有辦法而且我們有責任去實行讓我來總結，你今天可以做什麽？現在，推特，誰現在在發推特？拜託，我請求你，儘管我已經到時間了不管你寫的是阿拉伯語，英語，法語還是中文但請不要在發阿拉伯文時夾雜拉丁字母和數字！（掌聲）那是場災難！那不是一種語言你會以一種虛擬的語言進入一個虛擬世界但是我們必須知道而且確信，我們有辦法這是我們可以做的第一件事而且我們有責任去實行讓我來總結，你今天可以做什麽？現在，推特，誰現在在發推特？拜託，我請求你，儘管我已經到時間了不管你寫的是阿拉伯語，英語，法語還是中文但請不要在發阿拉伯文時夾雜拉丁字母和數字！（掌聲）那是場災難！那不是一種語言你會以一種虛擬的語言進入一個虛擬世界從那個虛擬的地方回來然後重新崛起可不容易這是我們可以做的第一件事第二，還有很多事情可以做我們今天來到這裡不是爲了說服彼此而是爲了讓大家注意到保護這門語言的重要性現在我要告訴你一個秘密嬰兒通過語言來初次認出父親當我的女兒出生時，我會和她說：“這是你的爸爸，親愛的”(阿拉伯語)我不會說：“這是你的爸爸，親愛的”（英語）在超級市場，我向我女兒Noor保證如果她和我說“謝謝”（阿拉伯語）我不會說，“你該說，'謝謝你，媽媽'”（法語）然後希望沒人剛才聽到她說阿拉伯語（掌聲）讓我們擺脫文化上的卑躬屈膝。（掌聲）"
