Talk	en	zh-tw
takaharu_tezuka_the_best_kindergarten_you_ve_ever_seen	"This is a kindergarten we designed in 2007. We made this kindergarten  to be a circle. It's a kind of endless circulation on top of the roof. If you are a parent, you know that kids love to keep making circles. This is how the rooftop looks. And why did we design this? The principal of this kindergarten said, ""No, I don't want a handrail."" I said, ""It's impossible."" But he insisted: ""How about having a net sticking out from the edge of the roof? So that it can catch the children falling off?"" (Laughter) I said, ""It's impossible."" And of course, the government official said, ""Of course you have to have a handrail."" But we could keep  that idea around the trees. There are three trees popping through. And we were allowed to call  this rope as a handrail. But of course, rope has nothing to do with them. They fall into the net. And you get more, and more, more. (Laughter) Sometimes 40 children  are around a tree. The boy on the branch, he loves the tree so he is eating the tree. (Laughter) And at the time of an event, they sit on the edge. It looks so nice from underneath. Monkeys in the zoo. (Laughter) Feeding time. (Laughter)  (Applause) And we made the roof as low as possible, because we wanted to see children on top of the roof, not only underneath the roof. And if the roof is too high, you see only the ceiling. And the leg washing place — there are many kinds of water taps. You see with the flexible tubes, you want to spray water to your friends, and the shower, and the one in front is quite normal. But if you look at this, the boy is not washing his boots, he's putting water into his boots. (Laughter) This kindergarten is completely open, most of the year. And there is no boundary between inside and outside. So it means basically this architecture is a roof. And also there is no boundary between classrooms. So there is no acoustic barrier at all. When you put many children in a quiet box, some of them get really nervous. But in this kindergarten, there is no reason they get nervous. Because there is no boundary. And the principal says if the boy in the corner doesn't want to stay in the room, we let him go. He will come back eventually, because it's a circle, it comes back. (Laughter) But the point is, in that kind of occasion, usually children try to hide somewhere. But here, just they leave and come back. It's a natural process. And secondly, we consider noise very important. You know that children sleep better in noise. They don't sleep in a quiet space. And in this kindergarten, these children show amazing concentration in class. And you know, our kind grew up in the jungle with noise. They need noise. And you know, you can talk to your friends in a noisy bar. You are not supposed to be in silence. And you know, these days we are trying to make everything under control. You know, it's completely open. And you should know that we can go skiing in -20 degrees in winter. In summer you go swimming. The sand is 50 degrees. And also, you should know that you are waterproof. You never melt in rain. So, children are supposed to be outside. So that is how we should treat them. This is how they divide classrooms. They are supposed to help teachers. They don't. (Laughter) I didn't put him in. A classroom. And a washbasin. They talk to each other around the well. And there are always  some trees in the classroom. A monkey trying to fish another monkey from above. (Laughter) Monkeys. (Laughter) And each classroom has at least one skylight. And this is where Santa Claus comes down at the time of Christmas. This is the annex building, right next to that oval-shaped kindergarten. The building is only five meters tall with seven floors. And of course, the ceiling height is very low. So you have to consider safety. So, we put our children, a daughter and a son. They tried to go in. He hit his head. He's okay. His skull is quite strong. He is resilient. It's my son. (Laughter) And he is trying to see if it is safe to jump off. And then we put other children. The traffic jam is awful in Tokyo, as you know. (Laughter) The driver in front, she needs to learn how to drive. Now these days, kids need a small dosage of danger. And in this kind of occasion, they learn to help each other. This is society. This is the kind of opportunity we are losing these days. Now, this drawing is showing the movement of a boy between 9:10 and 9:30. And the circumference of this building is 183 meters. So it's not exactly small at all. And this boy did 6,000 meters in the morning. But the surprise is yet to come. The children in this kindergarten do 4,000 meters on average. And these children have the highest athletic abilities among many kindergartens. The principal says, ""I don't train them. We leave them on top of the roof. Just like sheep."" (Laughter) They keep running. (Laughter) My point is don't control them, don't protect them too much, and they need to tumble sometimes. They need to get some injury. And that makes them learn how to live in this world. I think architecture is capable of changing this world, and people's lives. And this is one of the attempts to change the lives of children. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	2007年我們設計了這一個幼兒園我們將幼兒園設計成環帶狀樓頂環狀循環，沒有盡頭要是你有孩子你就知道，小孩子喜歡兜圈這就是樓頂外觀。為什麼我們這樣設計？幼兒園園長說：「我不想要欄杆」我說：這不可能啊但他堅持說：「要不在樓頂兩邊安裝一張網？」「這樣就可以接住掉下來的孩子」「笑聲」我說：這不可能當然政府官員說：「欄杆是必須要有的。」但我們可以將網用在樹邊這裡突出來三棵樹而且我們可以把把邊上的繩子叫欄杆但當然绳子本身與欄杆無關小孩掉進網裡然後又有更多的小孩去還有更多更多「笑聲」有時樹邊會有40個小孩樹幹上的那個男孩他很喜歡那棵樹所以他在吃那棵樹「笑聲」要是有活動孩子們會坐在樓頂邊上從下往上看真不錯動物園的猴子「笑聲」餵食時間「笑聲」「掌聲」我們盡量把樓頂設計得低一點因為我們希望看到樓頂的孩子孩子不會祗留在樓底樓頂太高的話，就祗能看到天花板這是洗腳的地方這裡有很多水龍頭大家看見那些活動水管要是你想要往朋友身上灑水還有沐浴噴頭相片中的水龍頭很普通但要是大家仔細看這小男孩不是在洗靴子他在將水灌進靴子裡「笑聲」一年裡，這個幼兒園大部分時間都是完全開放的戶內和戶外沒有限界簡單來說，這個建築物就祗是一個屋頂課室和課室之間也沒有限界所以這裡也沒有聲音的限界把那麼多孩子放在一個安靜的箱子裡有些孩子會覺得很緊張但是在這所幼兒園裡孩子們不會覺得緊張因為這裡沒有限界幼兒園園長說：要是邊上的男孩不想呆在室內我們就讓他出去他會回來的這裡就一個圓圈，總會繞回來「笑聲」重點是：在類似的情況下孩子一般會試著躲起來但在這裡他們跑開了又會回來非常自然的過程第二，我們認為噪音很重要大家知道，小孩在噪音中睡得更香他們在安靜的環境下睡不著在這個幼兒園這些小孩在課堂裡表現出驚人的集中力大家知道，我們的祖先是在森林噪音中成長的孩子們需要噪音大家可以在嘈雜的酒吧裡與朋友聊天大家不應該停留在無聲狀態大家也知道，現在大家都在不斷嘗試控制所有事物這裡是完全開放的大家也應該知道冬天零下20度我們出去滑冰夏天就去游泳沙子溫度有50度大家也應該知道：我們是防水的你不會在雨中溶掉所以孩子們是應該留在戶外的我們就應該這樣對待孩子這就是孩子們隔分課室的方式他們本應該幫助老師的他們…不幫「笑聲」不是我把他放進去的課室還有洗手盆他們在洗手盆邊聊天課室裡總會有些樹一隻猴子試著把另一隻猴子釣上去「笑聲」猴子「笑聲」每個課室至少有一個天窗聖誕節裡聖誕老人就是從這裡下來的這是附樓就在橢圓形幼兒園旁邊這座建築衹有5米高，共七層當然天花高度很低所以你必須考慮安全問題我們放入我們的孩子一個男孩，一個女孩他們試著跑進去他撞到頭了他沒事，頭顱很結實他復原能力很強，我的兒子「笑聲」他在看跳下去安不安全然後我們放入其他小孩大家知道，東京交通阻塞相當嚴重「笑聲」前方司機，她需要學習如何駕駛現今小孩子需要嘗試一些輕微危險的滋味在這種情況下他們學會互相幫助這就是小社會。而我們現今的社會正缺少這樣的（教育）機會這幅圖顯示一個小男孩的活動範圍時間段是9：10至9：30這座建築圓周為183米所以一點也不小這個男孩在早上跑了6000米更讓人驚奇的還在後面這個幼兒園的孩子平均跑4000米這些小孩跟其他許多幼兒園的小孩相比有最高的運動能力幼兒園園長說：「我不去訓練他們。我們把他們放在樓頂。」「就像羊群一樣」「笑聲」他們一直跑「笑聲」我的觀點是：不要去控制他們不要過分保護他們他們有時需要跌倒也需要受一點傷那樣會讓他們學習如果在這個世界生存我認為建築是能夠改變這個世界的建築能改變人們的生活這也是改變孩子們生活的一種嘗試非常感謝「掌聲」
