Talk	en	zh-tw
talithia_williams_own_your_body_s_data	"As a kid I always loved information that I could get from data and the stories that could be told with numbers. I remember, growing up, I'd be frustrated at how my own parents would lie to me using numbers. ""Talithia, if I've told you once  I've told you a thousand times."" No dad, you've only told me 17 times and twice it wasn't my fault. (Laughter) I think that is one of the reasons I got a Ph.D. in statistics. I always wanted to know, what are people trying to hide with numbers? As a statistician, I want people to show me the data so I can decide for myself. Donald and I were pregnant with our third child and we were at about 41 and a half weeks, what some of you may refer to as being overdue. Statisticians, we call that being within the 95 percent confidence interval. (Laughter) And at this point in the process we had to come in every couple of days to do a stress test on the baby, and this is just routine, it tests whether or not the baby  is feeling any type of undue stress. And you are rarely, if ever, seen by your actual doctor, just whoever happens to be  working at the hospital that day. So we go in for a stress test and after 20 minutes the doctor comes out and he says, ""Your baby is under stress, we need to induce you."" Now, as a statistician, what's my response? Show me the data! So then he proceeds to tell us the baby's heart rate trace went from 18 minutes, the baby's heart rate was in the normal zone and for two minutes it was in what appeared to be my heart rate zone and I said, ""Is it possible that maybe this was my heart rate? I was moving around a little bit, it's hard to lay still on your back, 41 weeks pregnant for 20 minutes. Maybe it was shifting around."" He said, ""Well, we don't want to take any chances."" I said okay. I said, ""What if I was at 36 weeks with this same data? Would your decision be to induce?"" ""Well, no, I would wait until you were at least 38 weeks, but you are almost 42, there is no reason to leave that baby inside, let's get you a room."" I said, ""Well, why don't we just do it again? We can collect more data. I can try to be really still for 20 minutes. We can average the two and see what that means. (Laughter) And he goes, ""Ma'am, I just don't want you to have a miscarriage."" That makes three of us. And then he says, ""Your chances of having a miscarriage double when you go past your due date. Let's get you a room."" Wow. So now as a statistician, what's my response? Show me the data! Dude, you're talking chances, I do chances all day long, tell me all about chances. Let's talk chances. (Laughter) Let's talk chances. So I say, ""Okay, great. Do I go from a 30-percent  chance to a 60-percent chance? Where are we here with this miscarriage thing? And he goes, ""Not quite, but it doubles, and we really just want what's best for the baby."" Undaunted, I try a different angle. I said, ""Okay, out of 1,000 full-term pregnant women, how many of them are going to miscarry just before their due date? And then he looks at me and looks at Donald, and he goes, about one in 1,000. I said, ""Okay, so of those 1,000 women, how many are going to miscarry just after their due date?"" ""About two."" (Laughter) I said, ""Okay, so you are telling me that my chances go from a 0.1-percent chance to a 0.2-percent chance."" Okay, so at this point the data is not convincing us that we need to be induced, and so then we proceed to have a conversation about how inductions lead to a higher rate of Cesarean sections, and if at all  possible we'd like to avoid that. And then I said, ""And I really don't think my due date is accurate."" (Laughter) And so this really stunned him and he looked sort of puzzled and I said, ""You may not know this, but pregnancy due dates are calculated assuming that you have a standard 28-day cycle, and my cycle ranges — sometimes it's 27, sometimes it's up to 38 — and I have been collecting the data to prove it. (Laughter) And so we ended up leaving the hospital  that day without being induced. We actually had to sign a waiver  to walk out of the hospital. And I'm not advocating that you not listen to your doctors, because even with our first child, we were induced at 38 weeks; cervical fluid was low. I'm not anti-medical intervention. But why were confident to leave that day? Well, we had data that told a different story. We had been collecting data for six years. I had this temperature data, and it told a different story. In fact, we could probably pretty  accurately estimate conception. Yeah, that's a story you want to tell at your kid's wedding reception. (Laughter) I remember like it was yesterday. My temperature was a sizzling 97.8 degrees as I stared into your father's eyes. (Laughter) Oh, yeah. Twenty-two more years, we're telling that story. But we were confident to leave  because we had been collecting data. Now, what does that data look like? Here's a standard chart of a woman's waking body temperature during the course of a cycle. So from the beginning of the menstrual cycle till the beginning of the next. You'll see that the temperature is not random. Clearly there is a low pattern at the beginning of her cycle and then you see this jump and then a higher set of temperatures at the end of her cycle. So what's happening here? What is that data telling you? Well, ladies, at the beginning of our cycle, the hormone estrogen is dominant and that estrogen causes a suppression of your body temperature. And at ovulation, your body releases an egg and progesterone takes over, pro-gestation. And so your body heats up in anticipation of housing this new little fertilized egg. So why this temperature jump? Well, think about when a bird sits on her eggs. Why is she sitting on them? She wants to keep them warm, protect them and keep them warm. Ladies, this is exactly what our bodies do every month, they heat up in anticipation of keeping a new little life warm. And if nothing happens, if you are not pregnant, then estrogen takes back over and  that cycle starts all over again. But if you do get pregnant, sometimes you actually see another shift in your temperatures and it stays elevated for those whole nine months. That's why you see those pregnant  women just sweating and hot, because their temperatures are high. Here's a chart that we had about three or four years ago. We were really very excited about this chart. You'll see the low temperature level and then a shift and for about five days, that's about the time it takes for the egg to travel down the fallopian tube and implant, and then you see those temperatures  start to go up a little bit. And in fact, we had a second temperature shift, confirmed with a pregnancy test  that were indeed pregnant with our first child, very exciting. Until a couple of days later I saw some spotting and then I noticed heavy blood flow, and we had in fact had an early stage miscarriage. Had I not been taking my temperature I really would have just thought  my period was late that month, but we actually had data to show that we had miscarried this baby, and even though this data revealed a really unfortunate event in our lives, it was information that we could then take to our doctor. So if there was a fertility issue or some problem, I had data to show: Look, we got pregnant, our temperature shifted, we somehow lost this baby. What is it that we can do to help prevent this problem? And it's not just about temperatures and it's not just about fertility; we can use data about our bodies to tell us a lot of things. For instance, did you know that taking  your temperature can tell you a lot about the condition of your thyroid? So, your thyroid works a lot like  the thermostat in your house. There is an optimal temperature  that you want in your house; you set your thermostat. When it gets too cold in the house, your thermostat kicks in and says, ""Hey, we need to blow some heat around."" Or if it gets too hot, your thermostat registers, ""Turn the A.C. on. Cool us off."" That's exactly how your thyroid works in your body. Your thyroid tries to keep an optimal temperature for your body. If it gets too cold, your thyroid  says, ""Hey, we need to heat up."" If it gets too hot, your thyroid cools you down. But what happens when your  thyroid is not functioning well? When it doesn't function, then it shows up in your body temperatures, they tend to be lower than normal or very erratic. And so by collecting this data you can find out information about your thyroid. Now, what is it, if you had a thyroid  problem and you went to the doctor, your doctor would actually test the amount of thyroid stimulating hormone in your blood. Fine. But the problem with that test is it doesn't tell you how active the hormone is in your body. So you might have a lot of hormone present, but it might not be actively working to regulate your body temperature. So just by collecting your temperature every day, you get information about the condition of your thyroid. So, what if you don't want to take  your temperature every day? I advocate that you do, but there are tons of other things you could take. You could take your blood pressure,  you could take your weight — yeah, who's excited about taking their weight every day? (Laughter) Early on in our marriage, Donald had a stuffy nose and he had been taking a slew of medications to try to relieve his stuffy nose, to no avail. And so, that night he comes and  he wakes me up and he says, ""Honey, I can't breath out of my nose."" And I roll over and I look, and I said,  ""Well, can you breath out of your mouth?"" (Laughter) And he goes, ""Yes, but I can't breath out of my nose!"" And so like any good wife, I rush him to the emergency room at 2 o'clock in the morning. And the whole time I'm driving and I'm thinking, you can't die on me now. We just got married, people will think I killed you! (Laughter) And so, we get to the emergency  room, and the nurse sees us, and he can't breath out of his nose, and so she brings us to the back and the doctor says, ""What seems to be the problem?"" and  he goes, ""I can't breath out of my nose."" And he said, ""You can't breath out of your nose? No, but he can breath out of his mouth. (Laughter) He takes a step back and he looks at both of us and he says ""Sir, I think I know the problem. You're having a heart attack. I'm going to order an EKG and a CAT scan for you immediately."" And we are thinking, no, no, no. It's not a heart attack. He can breathe, just out of his mouth. No, no, no, no, no. And so we go back and forth with this doctor because we think this is the incorrect diagnosis, and he's like, ""No really, it'll be fine, just calm down."" And I'm thinking, how do you calm down?  But I don't think he's having a heart attack. And so fortunately for us, this  doctor was at the end of the shift. So this new doctor comes in, he sees us clearly distraught, with a husband who can't breath out of his nose. (Laughter) And he starts asking us questions. He says, ""Well, do you two exercise?"" We ride our bikes, we go to the gym occasionally. (Laughter) We move around. And he says, ""What were you doing  just before you came here?"" I'm thinking, I was sleeping, honestly. But okay, what was Donald doing just before? So Donald goes into this slew  of medications he was taking. He lists, ""I took this decongestant  and then I took this nasal spray,"" and then all of a sudden a lightbulb goes off and he says, ""Oh! You should never mix this  decongestant with this nasal spray. Clogs you up every time. Here, take this one instead."" He gives us a prescription. We're looking at each other, and I looked at the doctor, and I said, ""Why is it that it seems like you were able to accurately diagnose his condition, but this previous doctor wanted to order an EKG and a CAT scan?"" And he looks at us and says, ""Well, when a 350-pound man walks in the  emergency room and says he can't breath, you assume he's having a heart attack and you ask questions later."" Now, emergency room doctors are  trained to make decisions quickly, but not always accurately. And so had we had some information about our heart health to share with him, maybe we would have gotten a  better diagnosis the first time. I want you to consider the following chart, of systolic blood pressure measurements from October 2010 to July 2012. You'll see that these measurements start in the prehypertension/hypertension zone, but over about the course of a year and a half they move into the normal zone. This is about the heart rate of a healthy 16-year-old. What story is this data telling you? Obviously it's the data from someone who's made a drastic transformation, and fortunately for us, that person  happens to be here today. So that 350-pound guy that walked  into the emergency room with me is now an even sexier and healthier 225-pound guy, and that's his blood pressure trace. So over the course of that year and a half Donald's eating changed and our exercise regimen changed, and his heart rate responded, his blood pressure responded to that change that he made in his body. So what's the take-home message that I want you to leave with today? By taking ownership of your data just like we've done, just by taking this daily measurements about yourself, you become the expert on your body. You become the authority. It's not hard to do. You don't have to have a Ph.D. in statistics to be an expert in yourself. You don't have to have a medical degree to be your body's expert. Medical doctors, they're experts on the population, but you are the expert on yourself. And so when two of you come together, when two experts come together, the two of you are able to make a better decision than just your doctor alone. Now that you understand the power of information that you can get through personal data collection, I'd like you all to stand and raise your right hand. (Laughter) Yes, get it up. I challenge you to take ownership of your data. And today, I hereby confer upon you a TEDx associate's degree in elementary statistics with a concentration in time-dependent data analysis with all the rights and privileges appertaining thereto. And so the next time you are in your doctor's office, as newly inducted statisticians, what should always be your response? Audience: Show me the data!  Talithia Williams: I can't hear you! Audience: Show me the data! TW: One more time! Audience: Show me the data! TW: Show me the data. Thank you. (Applause)"	我從小就喜歡從數據取得資訊以及用數字所傳遞的故事我還記得成長的過程中對於我爸媽用數字欺騙我感到沮喪泰莉西雅，我跟你說一次就代表我已經跟你說過一千次了爸，你只跟我說17次而已其中有兩次還不是我的錯 (笑聲) 我覺得這是我拿到統計學博士的其中一個理由我總是想知道大家究竟想用數字隱藏什麼事情身為統計學家我希望大家能拿數據給我看這樣我才能替自己下決定唐納和我當時有了第三個小孩那時候寶寶41週半有些人會說這已經過了預產期我們統計學家稱這為95% 以下的信賴區間(笑聲)在這個階段每幾天我們就要來醫院 讓寶寶接受壓力測試這只是例行公事而已這種測試是為了知道寶寶是否承受太大的壓力通常在醫院很難遇到自己本來的醫生都是由剛好當天值班的醫生看診於是我們就進去診間做壓力測試20分鐘後醫生出來，他說：你的寶寶承受胎壓了我們要幫你催生身為統計學家，我的回答是什麼呢?就是讓我看數據!接下來醫生告訴我們寶寶的心率追蹤持續 18 分鐘寶寶的心率落在正常的區間內但有兩分鐘的時間內變成是我的心率區間我就問 有可能這是我的心率嗎?我有稍微移動讓懷孕 41 週半的孕婦躺平 20 分鐘真的很困難也許檢查的位置稍微跑掉了醫生說 我們不想要冒任何險我說當然好我又問 要是我現在懷孕 36 週也有跟這情況一樣的數據你還會決定要催生嗎？不，我會等到你至少 38 週可是你現在都快 42 週了根本沒有理由還要把寶寶留在你肚子裡讓我們幫你準備病房吧我說 我們為什麼不重頭再來一次？我們可以收集更多數據我可以試著穩穩地躺 20 分種我們再平均這兩次的數據才能確定數據代表的意思 (笑聲)他接著說女士，我不希望你流產我們三個人都不想啊他接著說過了預產期後，你流產的可能性整整多了一倍讓我們幫你準備病房吧哇，那身為統計學家我的回答是什麼呢?讓我看數據!老兄，你說可能性我每天都在分析可能性還輪得到你告訴我那我們就來談可能性 (笑聲)我們就來談可能性 於是我說 那好我流產可能性從 30%提升至 60% 的意思嗎?流產的可能性到底是多少?他說 不完全是，不過可能性加倍我們只想為寶寶提供最好的方法我一點也不害怕試著用另一個角度思考我說 那一千位足月孕婦中有幾位會在預產期前就流產？醫生看著我和唐納他說大概一千位之中只有一位我說 那這一千位足月孕婦有多少人會在過了預產期後就流產？ 大約兩位 (笑聲)我說 那麼你說的可能性是從 0.1%上升至 0.2% 對吧 所以在這個點上這個數據無法說服我們夫妻倆讓我們催生寶寶接下來我們討論催生讓剖腹產的機率變高了如果有可能的話，我們就盡可能要避開它於是我就說我覺得我的預產期一點也不準確(笑聲)醫生聽到後有些錯愕他看起來有點困惑我就說 你可能不知道懷孕預產期的計算方法是建立在你有標準28天的經期而我的經期不固定有時候 27 天，有時候到 38 天而我也一直收集數據來證明這一切(笑聲)結果當天我們沒有進行催生手術就離開醫院也必須要簽下切結書才能夠離開醫院我並不是要鼓吹大家不聽醫生的話因為即使是我們的第一個孩子也是在 38 週時就催生是因為子宮頸黏液偏低所以我並不反對醫學的介入不過那天我們為什麼可以自信滿滿地離開醫院呢?這是因為我們的數據講的是不同的故事過去六年我們持續收集數據我所記錄的溫度數據又是另外一個故事了其實我們應該可以準確地預測受孕時間這種故事你就會想要在小孩婚宴上說了 (笑聲)這好像昨天才剛發生當我看著你爸的雙眼時我的體溫是發燙的 36.5 度 (笑聲)是的，過了 22 年後我們就會說這個故事我們勇敢地離開醫院是因為我們都一直都在收集數據這些數據顯示些什麼呢?這是女性月經週期中基礎體溫的標準圖表從此次月經週期的開始到下一次月經來臨前你會發現溫度是規律的在月經週期開始時會很明顯地看到溫度偏低之後會看到溫度拉高接近月經週期結束前又一波高溫這裡發生什麼事?這些數據表達些什麼呢?女士們，在你們月經週期一開始時荷爾蒙雌激素主導你的身體雌激素會幫身體降溫在排卵期時，你的身體會排卵此時黃體激素主導身體，黃體-激素你的體溫會預先升高為這顆小小的新受精卵提供居住地那為什麼溫度會突然升高呢?試想有隻鳥坐在牠的蛋上面為什麼要坐在蛋的上面?因為鳥媽媽要讓蛋保持溫暖保護蛋並且讓蛋維持溫度各位女士，這就是我們身體每個月所做的事情身體會先預熱才能讓這個新生命保持溫暖如果沒有任何事情發生假使你沒有懷孕雌激素就拿回主控權所有週期又會重新再開始一次不過要是妳懷孕了，有時候你會看到體溫又有變化在懷孕的九個月內體溫會偏高這就是為什麼你會發現懷孕婦女都在流汗又覺得熱這是因為她們的體溫偏高這是三、四年前我們用的圖表我們對這圖表真的很開心你可以看見這低溫的數據之後溫度轉變，並且持續五天這時候卵子出發順著輸卵管而下然後著床之後你會發現溫度又會往上提升這是第二次溫度的改變透過驗孕，我真的懷孕了那是我們的第一個孩子我們非常興奮直到幾天後我看到點狀出血之後感覺到一股大量的血流下來其實我遇到了懷孕初期的流產這樣看起來要是我沒量體溫的話我可能只會覺得那個月的經期晚來而已不過我們的數據顯示出我們已經失去這個寶寶了即使這數據也讓我們看到我們生命中非常不幸的一件事我們之後拿著這些資訊給醫生看所以要是有任何生育問題或其他狀況我就有數據可以給別人看你看，我懷孕，溫度也有改變卻不知道為何失去這個寶寶我們能夠做些什麼預防這種問題再次發生呢?這不只是關於體溫也不只是跟生育有關而是身體的數據能夠讓我們知道很多事情 像是，你知道量體溫可以知道甲狀腺的狀況嗎?甲狀腺的功能像跟你家裡的中央空調一樣我們總是希望房子裡維持最佳的溫度所以我們會設定中央空調當房子裡的溫度下降中央空調就會開始運轉並說 我們把將熱氣送進來如果房子裡太熱，中央空調就會說 開冷氣吧，讓大家涼快這就是甲狀腺在你身體裡的功能甲狀腺會為身體維持最適當的體溫如果溫度太低，甲狀腺就會說嘿，我們要升溫如果溫度太高甲狀腺就會幫你降溫不過，要是你的甲狀腺失去功用會怎麼樣呢?甲狀腺壞的時候，那麼你的體溫就會顯示這個狀況你的體溫會比平常還要低或是非常不規律所以收集這些數據你就可以知道甲狀腺的訊息 現在要是你有了甲狀腺問題然後你去看醫生你的醫生其實只會檢測血液中促甲狀腺激素的值不錯，可是這個檢測的問題在於這並不會跟你說身體內激素的活躍度有多高所以你可能身體裡有非常多的激素卻沒有辦法活躍的運作幫你調節身體的溫度所以只要每天收集你的體溫你就可以知道關於甲狀腺狀況的訊息那要是你不想要每天量體溫呢?我還是建議量體溫不過也有其他東西可以記錄你可以記下血壓、記下你的體重當然，每天量體重誰不開心啊? (笑聲) 我們剛結婚的時候唐納會鼻塞他嘗試過一堆的醫療方法試著要減輕鼻塞的狀況，不過都沒效所以，有一晚他上了床然後搖醒我並說親愛的，我不能用鼻子呼吸了我翻身過去，看了一下我說 那你可以用嘴巴呼吸嗎?(笑聲)然後他說可以，不過我不能用鼻子呼吸！所以就像每位好太太一樣，在凌晨兩點的時候我趕快帶著他衝到急診室整路上開著車時，我都在想你現在可不能死我們才剛結婚欸大家一定會以為是我殺了你! (笑聲)我們抵達了急診室護士看到我們因為我先生不能用鼻子呼吸所以護士帶我們到後方，醫生說有什麼問題嗎?我先生說 我不能用鼻子呼吸醫生說 你不能用鼻子呼吸?沒辦法，可是他可以用嘴巴呼吸 (笑聲)醫生退了一步，看著我們倆他說 先生，我知道你的問題了你心臟病發作我要馬上幫你安排心電圖和電腦斷層掃描我們就在想不不不，這絕對不是心臟病發作他可以呼吸不過只能用嘴巴呼吸不...不...不...不...不...所以我們來來回回和醫生談因為我們覺得這個診斷不正確他卻表現出 不可能一切會沒事的，你們冷靜我就想，要怎麼冷靜?而且我不認為他是心臟病發作還好我們很幸運這位醫生剛好值班結束當新醫生進門後，他清楚地知道我們很煩惱，煩惱著丈夫無法用鼻子呼吸 (笑聲)接下來他開始問我們問題他問 你們兩位會運動嗎?我們騎腳踏車，偶爾去健身房(笑聲)我們到處走來走去他又問 在你們來這前，做了什麼事?我就想，我那時在睡覺，這是真的很好，不過唐納在這之前做了什麼事?唐納當時忙著服用一堆的藥他列出藥名並說 我吃了解充血藥然後用這個鼻噴劑突然間靈光一閃，醫生說哦! 你永遠都不該把解充血藥跟鼻噴劑混在一起用這樣每次鼻子都會塞住，換成這個藥吧醫生給我們新的處方我們看著對方，然後我看著醫生並說 為什麼看起來似乎你能夠準確地診斷出他的症狀但是前一位醫生卻想幫他安排心電圖和電腦斷層掃描?醫生看著我們並說當一位350磅重的男子走進急診室並說他無法呼吸的話你就會認定他心臟病發作晚點才會再問他問題現在急診室醫生的訓練都是要他們能快速做決策但不能永遠都那麼準確所以要是我們將自己心臟健康的狀況分享給醫生或許在第一時間我們就能有更好的診斷 我要請你們仔細看接下來的圖表這是血壓收縮壓測量2010年10月到2012年7月這段期間的你們可以發現這些測量值一開始都在高血壓前期/高血壓區域內歷經一年半的時間後這些數據跑到正常值的區間內這個心跳率大約跟16 歲身體健康的人一樣這些數據又說了什麼樣的故事?很顯然地，這個人的數據有了巨大的改變對我們來說也很幸運這位人士今天也有出席那位跟我一起走進急診室的 350 磅重男士他現在是更性感及更健康的225 磅重的人，那是他的血壓追蹤表所以在過去一年半的時間內唐納改變飲食習慣我們也改變運動養生方法他的心率以及血壓都呼應著他為身體所做的改變 所以今天在你們離開前這演講的重點是什麼呢?跟我們做一樣的事就可以擁有自己的數據只要每天測量自己的身體你就能當自己身體的專家你就是身體的主人要做到這樣並不難你不需要先成為統計學博士才能懂自己你不需要先取得醫學學位才能懂自己的身體醫生是懂大眾的專家但你是自己身體的專家所以如果能兩個人一起合作你和醫生兩位專家一起兩個人所做出的決定會勝過醫生一個人的決定現在你懂了資訊帶來的力量都只要透過收集自己的數據我想要請大家站起來並舉起你的右手(笑聲)對，請站起來我挑戰你們成為自己身體數據的主人我在此授予你們TEDx 初階統計學副學士學位因你們專注花時間在分析數據上以及其所屬權利與殊榮所以當你們下次到醫生的辦公室作為新上任的統計學家你們的回答應該是什麼?觀眾: 讓我看數據!泰莉西雅: 我聽不到!觀眾: 讓我看數據!TW: 再說一次!觀眾: 讓我看數據!TW: 讓我看數據謝謝大家(掌聲)
