Talk	en	zh-tw
tania_luna_how_a_penny_made_me_feel_like_a_millionaire	"I'm five years old, and I am very proud. My father has just built the best outhouse in our little village in Ukraine. Inside, it's a smelly, gaping hole in the ground, but outside, it's pearly white formica and it literally gleams in the sun. This makes me feel so proud, so important, that I appoint myself the leader of my little group of friends and I devise missions for us. So we prowl from house to house looking for flies captured in spider webs and we set them free. Four years earlier, when I was one, after the Chernobyl accident, the rain came down black, and my sister's hair fell out in clumps, and I spent nine months in the hospital. There were no visitors allowed, so my mother bribed a hospital worker. She acquired a nurse's uniform, and she snuck in every night to sit by my side. Five years later, an unexpected silver lining. Thanks to Chernobyl, we get asylum in the U.S. I am six years old, and I don't cry when we leave home and we come to America, because I expect it to be a place filled with rare and wonderful things like bananas and chocolate and Bazooka bubble gum, Bazooka bubble gum with the little cartoon wrappers inside, Bazooka that we'd get once a year in Ukraine and we'd have to chew one piece for an entire week. So the first day we get to New York, my grandmother and I find a penny in the floor of the homeless shelter that my family's staying in. Only, we don't know that it's a homeless shelter. We think that it's a hotel, a hotel with lots of rats. So we find this penny kind of fossilized in the floor, and we think that a very wealthy man must have left it there because regular people don't just lose money. And I hold this penny in the palm of my hand, and it's sticky and rusty, but it feels like I'm holding a fortune. I decide that I'm going to get my very own piece of Bazooka bubble gum. And in that moment, I feel like a millionaire. About a year later, I get to feel that way again when we find a bag full of stuffed animals in the trash, and suddenly I have more toys than I've ever had in my whole life. And again, I get that feeling when we get a knock on the door of our apartment in Brooklyn, and my sister and I find a deliveryman with a box of pizza that we didn't order. So we take the pizza, our very first pizza, and we devour slice after slice as the deliveryman stands there and stares at us from the doorway. And he tells us to pay, but we don't speak English. My mother comes out, and he asks her for money, but she doesn't have enough. She walks 50 blocks to and from work every day just to avoid spending money on bus fare. Then our neighbor pops her head in, and she turns red with rage when she realizes that those immigrants from downstairs have somehow gotten their hands on her pizza. Everyone's upset. But the pizza is delicious. It doesn't hit me until years later just how little we had. On our 10 year anniversary of being in the U.S., we decided to celebrate by reserving a room at the hotel that we first stayed in when we got to the U.S. The man at the front desk laughs, and he says, ""You can't reserve a room here. This is a homeless shelter."" And we were shocked. My husband Brian was also homeless as a kid. His family lost everything, and at age 11, he had to live in motels with his dad, motels that would round up all of their food and keep it hostage until they were able to pay the bill. And one time, when he finally got his box of Frosted Flakes back, it was crawling with roaches. But he did have one thing. He had this shoebox that he carried with him everywhere containing nine comic books, two G.I. Joes painted to look like Spider-Man and five Gobots. And this was his treasure. This was his own assembly of heroes that kept him from drugs and gangs and from giving up on his dreams. I'm going to tell you about one more formerly homeless member of our family. This is Scarlett. Once upon a time, Scarlet was used as bait in dog fights. She was tied up and thrown into the ring for other dogs to attack so they'd get more aggressive before the fight. And now, these days, she eats organic food and she sleeps on an orthopedic bed with her name on it, but when we pour water for her in her bowl, she still looks up and she wags her tail in gratitude. Sometimes Brian and I walk through the park with Scarlett, and she rolls through the grass, and we just look at her and then we look at each other and we feel gratitude. We forget about all of our new middle-class frustrations and disappointments, and we feel like millionaires. Thank you. (Applause)"	我五歲的時候，我很自豪父親在我們的烏克蘭小村莊裡蓋了一間最棒的屋子屋子裡是有點怪味，地板上還有縫隙和破洞但是從外面看來，這房子是珍珠白的塑膠材質在陽光下會閃閃發亮這讓我自覺驕傲且重要所以我自任為小小朋友圈裡的領導者並分配任務給大家我們徘徊在家家戶戶之間找尋被蜘蛛網困住的蒼蠅然後放牠們自由 在那四年前，我一歲的時候發生車諾比(Chernobyl) 核電廠災變天空下著黑雨我姊姊的頭髮成把的掉落而我在醫院裡待了九個月因為不准有任何訪客探視我母親只好買通一個醫院員工她拿到一件護士服每天晚上都溜進醫院坐在我身旁五年後，出現了意外的轉機感謝車諾比，讓我們得以前往美國的庇護所 我那時六歲，離開家鄉前來美國時我沒有哭泣因為我滿心期待要前往一個充滿美好事物的國度到處都是珍稀的香蕉、巧克力還有巴滋卡口香糖 (Bazooka)這種口香糖有小卡通圖案包裝我們在烏克蘭一年只能吃到一次所以一片口香糖就嚼一整個星期 我們第一天到紐約時我和奶奶在我們住的遊民收容所地板上撿到了一分錢不過我們當時並不知道那是遊民收容所我們一直以為那是間旅館，有很多老鼠的旅館所以當我們發現那一分錢像個化石一樣躺在地上時我們都認為一定是個很有錢的人掉的因為一般人才不會掉錢呢！雖然這一分錢有點黏又鏽了但我緊握在手心就像抓住了一大筆財富我決定要拿這一分錢去買一片屬於我自己的巴滋卡口香糖在那瞬間，我覺得自己就像個百萬富翁 一年後，我們在垃圾堆裡找到一大袋填充娃娃時我又有同樣的感覺了我突然間擁有這麼多玩具比這輩子有過的加起來都還要多了 還有一次，在我們布魯克林的公寓裡我和姐姐聽到敲門聲有個送披薩的人站在門口但披薩不是我們訂的我們收下了披薩，這輩子的第一個披薩外送員站在門口盯著我們看而我們就在他面前一片接一片不停的吃他叫我們付錢，但我們當時還不懂英文我母親從屋子裡走出來，外送員就叫她付錢但是她的錢不夠她天天走過五十個街區去工作只為了省下巴士錢然後鄰居突然探頭進來當她發現她訂的披薩被樓下這些移民染指了她氣到滿臉通紅大家都不高興了啊！不過那披薩倒真是好吃呢！ 直到多年後我才明白當時我們有多窮困在我們定居美國十年後我們決定去一開始收留我們的旅館訂個房間一起慶祝十周年但櫃台人員大笑著跟我們說：「這邊的房間不能預約，這裡可是遊民收容所啊！」我們全都嚇呆了 我老公布萊恩，他小時候也無家可歸他家失去了一切，11 歲的時候他得和父親一起住在汽車旅館裡汽車旅館會把他們的食物都拿走做為抵押品直到他們能繳清欠款為止有次當他終於拿回他的家樂氏穀片時上面已經爬滿蟑螂了但他確實擁有一個東西他到哪裡都帶著一個鞋盒裡面裝著九本漫畫書兩個特種部隊 (G.I.Joe) 公仔塗裝得像蜘蛛人還有五個機器戰神 (Gobots) 公仔，這是他的寶貝這是他的英雄部隊讓他得以堅定的遠離毒品和幫派且不放棄為他的夢想努力 我還要跟大家分享我們家族中另一個曾經無家可歸的成員這是史嘉莉史嘉莉曾經是鬥狗場上的誘餌在賽前被綁起來丟進場中刺激鬥犬群的攻擊性而最近這些日子，史嘉莉吃的是有機食物睡在寫著牠名字的矯正床上但每當我們倒水進牠的碗裡時牠依然充滿感激的搖尾以對 有時我和布萊恩帶著史嘉莉去公園散步牠會在草地上打滾我們看著史嘉莉然後再看著彼此我們心中充滿了感激之情我們忘掉生活中面臨的新中產階級挫敗和沮喪我們自覺像個百萬富翁 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
