Talk	en	zh-tw
taylor_wilson_my_radical_plan_for_small_nuclear_fission_reactors	"Well, I have a big announcement to make today, and I'm really excited about this. And this may be a little bit of a surprise to many of you who know my research and what I've done well. I've really tried to solve some big problems: counterterrorism, nuclear terrorism, and health care and diagnosing and treating cancer, but I started thinking about all these problems, and I realized that the really biggest problem we face, what all these other problems come down to, is energy, is electricity, the flow of electrons. And I decided that I was going to set out to try to solve this problem. And this probably is not what you're expecting. You're probably expecting me to come up here and talk about fusion, because that's what I've done most of my life. But this is actually a talk about, okay — (Laughter) — but this is actually a talk about fission. It's about perfecting something old, and bringing something old into the 21st century. Let's talk a little bit about how nuclear fission works. In a nuclear power plant, you have a big pot of water that's under high pressure, and you have some fuel rods, and these fuel rods are encased in zirconium, and they're little pellets of uranium dioxide fuel, and a fission reaction is controlled and maintained at a proper level, and that reaction heats up water, the water turns to steam, steam turns the turbine, and you produce electricity from it. This is the same way we've been producing electricity, the steam turbine idea, for 100 years, and nuclear was a really big advancement in a way to heat the water, but you still boil water and that turns to steam and turns the turbine. And I thought, you know, is this the best way to do it? Is fission kind of played out, or is there something left to innovate here? And I realized that I had hit upon something that I think has this huge potential to change the world. And this is what it is. This is a small modular reactor. So it's not as big as the reactor you see in the diagram here. This is between 50 and 100 megawatts. But that's a ton of power. That's between, say at an average use, that's maybe 25,000 to 100,000 homes could run off that. Now the really interesting thing about these reactors is they're built in a factory. So they're modular reactors that are built essentially on an assembly line, and they're trucked anywhere in the world, you plop them down, and they produce electricity. This region right here is the reactor. And this is buried below ground, which is really important. For someone who's done a lot of counterterrorism work, I can't extol to you how great having something buried below the ground is for proliferation and security concerns. And inside this reactor is a molten salt, so anybody who's a fan of thorium, they're going to be really excited about this, because these reactors happen to be really good at breeding and burning the thorium fuel cycle, uranium-233. But I'm not really concerned about the fuel. You can run these off — they're really hungry, they really like down-blended weapons pits, so that's highly enriched uranium and weapons-grade plutonium that's been down-blended. It's made into a grade where it's not usable for a nuclear weapon, but they love this stuff. And we have a lot of it sitting around, because this is a big problem. You know, in the Cold War, we built up this huge arsenal of nuclear weapons, and that was great, and we don't need them anymore, and what are we doing with all the waste, essentially? What are we doing with all the pits of those nuclear weapons? Well, we're securing them, and it would be great if we could burn them, eat them up, and this reactor loves this stuff. So it's a molten salt reactor. It has a core, and it has a heat exchanger from the hot salt, the radioactive salt, to a cold salt which isn't radioactive. It's still thermally hot but it's not radioactive. And then that's a heat exchanger to what makes this design really, really interesting, and that's a heat exchanger to a gas. So going back to what I was saying before about all power being produced — well, other than photovoltaic — being produced by this boiling of steam and turning a turbine, that's actually not that efficient, and in fact, in a nuclear power plant like this, it's only roughly 30 to 35 percent efficient. That's how much thermal energy the reactor's putting out to how much electricity it's producing. And the reason the efficiencies are so low is these reactors operate at pretty low temperature. They operate anywhere from, you know, maybe 200 to 300 degrees Celsius. And these reactors run at 600 to 700 degrees Celsius, which means the higher the temperature you go to, thermodynamics tells you that you will have higher efficiencies. And this reactor doesn't use water. It uses gas, so supercritical CO2 or helium, and that goes into a turbine, and this is called the Brayton cycle. This is the thermodynamic cycle that produces electricity, and this makes this almost 50 percent efficient, between 45 and 50 percent efficiency. And I'm really excited about this, because it's a very compact core. Molten salt reactors are very compact by nature, but what's also great is you get a lot more electricity out for how much uranium you're fissioning, not to mention the fact that these burn up. Their burn-up is much higher. So for a given amount of fuel you put in the reactor, a lot more of it's being used. And the problem with a traditional nuclear power plant like this is, you've got these rods that are clad in zirconium, and inside them are uranium dioxide fuel pellets. Well, uranium dioxide's a ceramic, and ceramic doesn't like releasing what's inside of it. So you have what's called the xenon pit, and so some of these fission products love neutrons. They love the neutrons that are going on and helping this reaction take place. And they eat them up, which means that, combined with the fact that the cladding doesn't last very long, you can only run one of these reactors for roughly, say, 18 months without refueling it. So these reactors run for 30 years without refueling, which is, in my opinion, very, very amazing, because it means it's a sealed system. No refueling means you can seal them up and they're not going to be a proliferation risk, and they're not going to have either nuclear material or radiological material proliferated from their cores. But let's go back to safety, because everybody after Fukushima had to reassess the safety of nuclear, and one of the things when I set out to design a power reactor was it had to be passively and intrinsically safe, and I'm really excited about this reactor for essentially two reasons. One, it doesn't operate at high pressure. So traditional reactors like a pressurized water reactor or boiling water reactor, they're very, very hot water at very high pressures, and this means, essentially, in the event of an accident, if you had any kind of breach of this stainless steel pressure vessel, the coolant would leave the core. These reactors operate at essentially atmospheric pressure, so there's no inclination for the fission products to leave the reactor in the event of an accident. Also, they operate at high temperatures, and the fuel is molten, so they can't melt down, but in the event that the reactor ever went out of tolerances, or you lost off-site power in the case of something like Fukushima, there's a dump tank. Because your fuel is liquid, and it's combined with your coolant, you could actually just drain the core into what's called a sub-critical setting, basically a tank underneath the reactor that has some neutrons absorbers. And this is really important, because the reaction stops. In this kind of reactor, you can't do that. The fuel, like I said, is ceramic inside zirconium fuel rods, and in the event of an accident in one of these type of reactors, Fukushima and Three Mile Island — looking back at Three Mile Island, we didn't really see this for a while — but these zirconium claddings on these fuel rods, what happens is, when they see high pressure water, steam, in an oxidizing environment, they'll actually produce hydrogen, and that hydrogen has this explosive capability to release fission products. So the core of this reactor, since it's not under pressure and it doesn't have this chemical reactivity, means that there's no inclination for the fission products to leave this reactor. So even in the event of an accident, yeah, the reactor may be toast, which is, you know, sorry for the power company, but we're not going to contaminate large quantities of land. So I really think that in the, say, 20 years it's going to take us to get fusion and make fusion a reality, this could be the source of energy that provides carbon-free electricity. Carbon-free electricity. And it's an amazing technology because not only does it combat climate change, but it's an innovation. It's a way to bring power to the developing world, because it's produced in a factory and it's cheap. You can put them anywhere in the world you want to. And maybe something else. As a kid, I was obsessed with space. Well, I was obsessed with nuclear science too, to a point, but before that I was obsessed with space, and I was really excited about, you know, being an astronaut and designing rockets, which was something that was always exciting to me. But I think I get to come back to this, because imagine having a compact reactor in a rocket that produces 50 to 100 megawatts. That is the rocket designer's dream. That's someone who is designing a habitat on another planet's dream. Not only do you have 50 to 100 megawatts to power whatever you want to provide propulsion to get you there, but you have power once you get there. You know, rocket designers who use solar panels or fuel cells, I mean a few watts or kilowatts — wow, that's a lot of power. I mean, now we're talking about 100 megawatts. That's a ton of power. That could power a Martian community. That could power a rocket there. And so I hope that maybe I'll have an opportunity to kind of explore my rocketry passion at the same time that I explore my nuclear passion. And people say, ""Oh, well, you've launched this thing, and it's radioactive, into space, and what about accidents?"" But we launch plutonium batteries all the time. Everybody was really excited about Curiosity, and that had this big plutonium battery on board that has plutonium-238, which actually has a higher specific activity than the low-enriched uranium fuel of these molten salt reactors, which means that the effects would be negligible, because you launch it cold, and when it gets into space is where you actually activate this reactor. So I'm really excited. I think that I've designed this reactor here that can be an innovative source of energy, provide power for all kinds of neat scientific applications, and I'm really prepared to do this. I graduated high school in May, and — (Laughter) (Applause) — I graduated high school in May, and I decided that I was going to start up a company to commercialize these technologies that I've developed, these revolutionary detectors for scanning cargo containers and these systems to produce medical isotopes, but I want to do this, and I've slowly been building up a team of some of the most incredible people I've ever had the chance to work with, and I'm really prepared to make this a reality. And I think, I think, that looking at the technology, this will be cheaper than or the same price as natural gas, and you don't have to refuel it for 30 years, which is an advantage for the developing world. And I'll just say one more maybe philosophical thing to end with, which is weird for a scientist. But I think there's something really poetic about using nuclear power to propel us to the stars, because the stars are giant fusion reactors. They're giant nuclear cauldrons in the sky. The energy that I'm able to talk to you today, while it was converted to chemical energy in my food, originally came from a nuclear reaction, and so there's something poetic about, in my opinion, perfecting nuclear fission and using it as a future source of innovative energy. So thank you guys. (Applause)"	我今天要發表一個重大聲明我感到很興奮各位可能會感到驚訝因為很多人對我過去的研究及成果相當瞭解我曾努力解決一些重大問題：反恐怖主義、核子恐怖主義、醫療保健、診斷治療癌症但我開始思考這些問題時我意識到我們面臨的最大問題也是所有問題的根源就是能源，也就是電流，電子的流動我決定要開始嘗試解決這個問題 以下可能並非各位期待的你們可能希望我到這裡來談核聚變因為那是我目前做最多的事但我今天真正要說的是…（笑）好…我今天真正要說的是－核裂變把老東西變得更完美把老東西帶入21世紀 先簡單說明核裂變的原理核電廠裡有個很大的高壓水箱及一些燃料棒這些燃料棒，用鋯封裝了小小的二氧化鈾燃料丸核裂變反應會控制在適當水準將水加熱水變成蒸汽，蒸汽推動渦輪電就產生了我們一直採用相同方式發電蒸汽渦輪已用了100年以加熱水的方法而言核能真是巨大的進步但還是要燒水，變成蒸汽推動渦輪 我想，這是最好的方式嗎？核裂變是不是落伍了還是可以繼續創新呢？我意識到一個想法有巨大的潛力可以改變世界這個想法是這樣的 這是個小型模組化反應爐不像那張圖裡的反應爐那麼大介於50到100百萬瓦但仍是很大的功率在一般情況下可供2萬5千至10萬個家庭使用這些反應爐真正有趣的地方在於是工廠生產出來的模組化反應爐是在生產線上建造出來的然後運到世界各地丟著就可以發電了這個區域就是反應爐 是埋在地底下的，這很重要對從事反恐工作的人來說我的言語難以形容埋在地下有多美好因為沒有核子擴散和安全問題 反應爐裡面是熔解的鹽在座如果有釷元素的粉絲一定會很興奮因為這種反應爐最擅長釷燃料循環的滋生和燃燒最後產生鈾-233 我真正關心的不是燃料因為總會用完的，反應爐很餓反應爐很喜歡稀釋的核武原料像高濃縮鈾和及核武級的鈽加以稀釋降到不可能用來作為核武模組化反應爐很愛吃這個而我國有一大堆這是個大問題冷戰時期我們儲備了大量的核武，太棒了我們再也不需要核武了這些留下來的垃圾該怎麼辦？核武裡的核物質要怎麼處理？我們要確保其安全如果能燒掉、吃掉，那就太棒了這個反應爐就愛這樣 熔鹽反應爐有個核心還有熱交換器，把熱量由「熱鹽」，即放射性鹽傳到「冷鹽」，即無放射性的鹽冷鹽還是很熱，但沒有放射性熱交換器是這種反應爐設計最有趣的地方這種熱交換器用的是氣體我剛說了，產生所有的能量前除了光電池外…都要燒水，產生蒸汽，推動渦輪如此效率並不高，事實上傳統的核電廠效率大約只有30到35%這是反應爐產生的熱能與實際產生電力的比值效率這麼低的原因是這些反應爐在低溫下運轉運轉溫度介於約攝氏200到300度新型反應爐高達攝氏600到700度溫度越高依據熱力學原理，效率就越高而且這個反應爐不用水，改用氣體用超臨界二氧化碳，或是氦氣氣體直接進入渦輪稱為布雷頓循環是個產生電的熱力學循環效率接近50%在45%到50%之間我真的感到很興奮因為這個核心相當小熔鹽反應爐本來就很小另外也很棒的，是會得到更多的電比等量的鈾分裂還多更不用提燃耗了新反應爐的燃耗比率高多了放進等量的燃料利用到的多了很多 傳統的核電廠有個問題燃料棒用鋯包著裡面是二氧化鈾燃料丸二氧化鈾已燒結為陶瓷陶瓷不太會釋出內部的東西氙氣會累積有些核裂變產物很喜歡中子很喜歡周圍這些中子並幫助反應進行會將其侵蝕掉，再加上包覆層不太耐用所以傳統反應爐補充燃料一次大約只可燒18個月新式核反應爐可用30年不用補充燃料我覺得非常非常驚人因為這意味著一個全封閉的系統不用補充燃料表示可以封起來就不會有核子擴散的風險了不會有…核子物質或放射性物質從內核洩漏出來 再回到安全問題福島事故後，大家都重新評估核能安全我開始設計新型反應爐的理念之一就是必須為被動安全和本質安全我對新型反應爐感到很興奮有兩個重要原因：第一，不必在高壓環境中運轉傳統反應爐，如壓水式反應爐或沸水式反應爐都有高熱高壓的水，這表示一旦發生事故當不銹鋼壓力容器出現裂縫冷卻劑就會從內核中洩漏出來新型反應爐在一般大氣壓力下運轉核裂變產物不太可能會在事故中洩漏而且反應爐在高溫運轉燃料本就是熔化的，所以不會熔毀即使這個反應爐真的撐不住了或像福島那樣失去外部電源我們還有排汙槽因為燃料是液體，混合了冷卻劑事實上可把整個內核排入亞臨界裝置基本上就是反應爐下的水槽裡面有中子吸收劑這很重要，因為連鎖反應停止了傳統反應爐無法做到這點它的燃料是包在鋯燃料棒裡的陶瓷以下幾種反應爐如果發生事故例如福島和三哩島…回顧三哩島，我們好久沒關心了…燃料棒外面的鋯包覆遇到高壓的水或蒸汽，並處在氧化環境中實際上會產生氫氣氫氣有可能爆炸釋放核裂變產物新式反應爐內核不處在壓力狀態而且沒有這種化學反應性就表示不太可能讓核裂變產物洩漏出反應爐所以一旦發生事故是的，這個反應爐會燒壞，就是說電力公司，抱歉了但它不會汙染大片土地所以我真的覺得這可給我們20年過渡時間讓核聚變成為現實這種能源提供了無碳的電力無碳電力 這是非常令人驚歎的技術不但可對抗氣候變遷更是個創新可將能源帶給開發中國家因為是在工廠生產的，所以很便宜可裝置在任何地方 接下來我要談一些別的小時候我對太空非常癡迷嗯，我對核子科學也非常著迷但在那以前，我對太空很著迷我很興奮希望能當太空人和設計火箭總是讓我很興奮我覺得可以重拾童年夢想只要火箭裡裝個小型反應爐可發電50到100百萬瓦這是火箭設計師的夢想也是外星基地設計師的夢想不只有50到100百萬瓦電力提供給以任何動力推進的飛行器甚至到目的地之後，也有電可用相較原先火箭設計師利用太陽能板和燃料電池，只有幾瓦到幾千瓦…哇，那可是好多電力我們談的是100百萬瓦這是超多的電力夠為整個火星社區供電了足以為火箭供電所以我希望有機會在探索核能的同時也有機會探索我熱愛的火箭 有人會說，「你發射的這個東西，它有輻射，發生事故怎麼辦？」其實太空船一直在用鈽電池大家都對探測火星的好奇號很興奮它上面就裝了一個這麼大的鈽電池用的是鈽-238它的反應活性比熔鹽反應爐的低濃度鈾燃料更高表示它的影響可以忽略因為發射時反應爐還沒啟動進入太空後才會啟動 我真的很興奮我想我已設計出這個反應爐這是創新的能源可為各種了不起的科學應用供電我已經準備好這麼做了五月我就要高中畢業了…（笑聲）（掌聲）…五月我高中畢業後要成立一家公司來商業化我發明的各種技術如革命性的貨櫃掃描偵測器和生產醫療同位素的系統我還在慢慢建立團隊和一些我所見過最了不起的人共同合作我已準備好讓夢想成真我想，我這麼想，你看這些技術跟天然氣價格差不多，甚至更低30年都不需添加燃料這對開發中國家是很有利的 我再說一件可能比較哲學的事來結束演講，這對科學家有點怪不過我覺得用核能帶我們到外星是很有詩意的因為星星是巨大的核聚變反應爐是天空中巨大的核子大鍋今天我之所以有能量和各位說話來自我食物中的化學能追根究柢也是來自核能我認為很有詩意的是讓核裂變可以更完美以作為未來的創新能源 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
