Talk	en	zh-tw
taylor_wilson_yup_i_built_a_nuclear_fusion_reactor	"So my name is Taylor Wilson. I am 17 years old and I am a nuclear physicist, which may be a little hard to believe, but I am. And I would like to make the case that nuclear fusion will be that point, that the bridge that T. Boone Pickens talked about will get us to. So nuclear fusion is our energy future. And the second point, making the case that kids can really change the world. So you may ask — (Applause) You may ask me, well how do you know what our energy future is? Well I built a fusion reactor when I was 14 years old. That is the inside of my nuclear fusion reactor. I started building this project when I was about 12 or 13 years old. I decided I wanted to make a star. Now most of you are probably saying, well there's no such thing as nuclear fusion. I don't see any nuclear power plants with fusion energy. Well it doesn't break even. It doesn't produce more energy out than I put in, but it still does some pretty cool stuff. And I assembled this in my garage, and it now lives in the physics department of the University of Nevada, Reno. And it slams together deuterium, which is just hydrogen with an extra neutron in it. So this is similar to the reaction of the proton chain that's going on inside the Sun. And I'm slamming it together so hard that that hydrogen fuses together, and in the process it has some byproducts, and I utilize those byproducts. So this previous year, I won the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. I developed a detector that replaces the current detectors that Homeland Security has. For hundreds of dollars, I've developed a system that exceeds the sensitivity of detectors that are hundreds of thousands of dollars. I built this in my garage. (Applause) And I've developed a system to produce medical isotopes. Instead of requiring multi-million-dollar facilities I've developed a device that, on a very small scale, can produce these isotopes. So that's my fusion reactor in the background there. That is me at the control panel of my fusion reactor. Oh, by the way, I make yellowcake in my garage, so my nuclear program is as advanced as the Iranians. So maybe I don't want to admit to that. This is me at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland, which is the preeminent particle physics laboratory in the world. And this is me with President Obama, showing him my Homeland Security research. (Applause) So in about seven years of doing nuclear research, I started out with a dream to make a ""star in a jar,"" a star in my garage, and I ended up meeting the president and developing things that I think can change the world, and I think other kids can too. So thank you very much. (Applause)"	我的名字是泰勒‧威爾遜，今年 17 歲。我是一個核子物理學家。這可能有點難以相信，但我真的昰。我想要說服大家的第一點，是核融合技術將會成為T. Boone Pickens (美國能源泰斗) 曾提起讓我們連接未來的橋樑。核融合將是未來的能源。第二點，是證明孩子真的可以改變世界。 所以你可能會問-（掌聲）你可能會問我，你怎麼知道我們能源的未來是什麼？我已經蓋了一座核融合反應爐，當時我14歲。這就是我的核反應爐的內部。我開始建造這個計畫時，我大約12、13歲。那時我決定我想做一顆星星。 你們之中的大多數人或許會說，核融合這種東西是不存在的，我從沒看到任何核融合發電廠。我承認它無法收支平衡，它不會產出比我原先提供還要更多的能量，但它依然會做一些很酷的東西。而且我在我的車庫裡把它組裝完成的，而現在它在內華達大學雷諾校區的物理系館內。它能夠高速撞擊氘，氘只是氫加一個額外的中子。這個反應類似於在太陽裡面發生的質子鏈。我將它們高速撞擊直到它們融合在一起，並在過程中產生一些副產品，而我就是利用這些副產品。 去年，我贏了英特爾國際科學和工程展覽會。我開發了一個能夠替換當今國安局探測器更好的探測器。我以數百美元，開發了一個敏銳度超越上萬美元的探測器敏銳度的系統。我在我的車庫裡製造出來的。 （掌聲） 我還有發明了一個系統用來生產醫用同位素。與其需要幾百萬美元的設施，我開發了一種設備，能夠以很小的規模，產生這些同位素。 在後面那個就是我的核融合反應爐。這是我在反應爐的控制台。哦，順便說一句，我也在我的車庫裡作黃蛋糕(鈾235俗稱)，所以我的核計劃跟伊朗人一樣進步。也許我不應該承認這點。這是我在瑞士日內瓦的歐洲粒子物理研究中心(CERN)它是世界上數一數二的粒子物理實驗室。這是我和歐巴馬總統，我在向他展示我的國土安全研究。 （掌聲） 所以在我做核子研究的這七年，我昰從一個夢想開始。想要在一個罐子裡做一顆星，在車庫裡的星星。而我最後竟見到了總統，並且發明我認為可以改變這個世界的東西，而且我認為其他的孩子也可以做到。謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
