Talk	en	zh-tw
teitur_home_is_a_song_i_ve_always_remembered	"(Guitar music) I was just thinking that I have been missing you way too long There's something inside this weary head that wants us to love just instead But I was just thinking, merely thinking I've got loads of pictures, I've got the one of you in that dancing dress But man I feel silly in that dim light Just after doing you by the sight of my Kodak delights, I am sinking, merely sinking I think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babe I'm a singer without a song If I wait for you longer my affection is stronger and I ... I was just thinking, merely thinking that this boat is sinking I'm tired of postcards, especially the ones with cute dogs and cupids I'm tired of calling you and missing you and dreaming I slept with you Don't get me wrong I still desperately love you inside this weary head I just want us to love just instead But I was just thinking and thinking, merely thinking I think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babe and time is running me still If I wait for you longer my affection is stronger I ... I was just thinking I ... I was just thinking that I'm tired of calling you once a week thinking of long distance rates instead of kissing you So baby I'm sinking, merely sinking (Guitar music ends) (Applause) Thank you. Singing is sharing. When you sing, you have to know what you're talking about intimately, and you have to be willing to share this insight and give away a piece of yourself. I look for this intention to share in everything, and I ask: what are the intentions behind this architecture or this product or this restaurant or this meal? And if your intentions are to impress people or to get the big applause at the end, then you are taking, not giving. And this is a song that's about — it's the kind of song that everyone has their version of. This song is called ""Home,"" and it's sort of a ""This is where I'm from, nice to meet you all,"" kind of song. (Laughter) (Applause) (Piano music) Home is the sound of birds early in the morning Home is a song I've always remembered Home is the memory of my first day in school Home is the books that I carry around Home is an alley in a faraway town Home is the places I’ve been and where I’d like to go Home I'm always gonna feel at home No matter where I may roam I'm always gonna find my way back home No matter how far I’m gone I’m always gonna feel this longing No matter where I might stay Home is a feather twirling in the air Home is flowers in a windowsill Home is all the things she said to me Home is a photo I never threw away Home is the smile on my face when I die Home is the taste of an apple pie I met a woman, she always lived in the same place And she said home is where you’re born and raised And I met a man, he sat looking out to the sea And he said home is where you want to be I met a girl in some downtown bar And she said I'll have whatever he's having And I asked her how come we never met before? And she said all my life I’ve been trying to get a place of my own I’m always gonna feel at home No matter where I may roam Always gonna find my way back home No matter how far I’m gone I'm always gonna feel this longing No matter where I might stay (Piano music) (Piano music ends) (Applause)"	（結他音樂） 我曾經這樣想思念得妳太久。 但這疲憊的心靈有種聲音， 卻呼喚我們戀愛。 我曾經這樣想，只是在想 我有無數的相片， 其中一張有妳穿著舞衣， 但我在暗淡的燈光下，顯得有點儍。 我用「柯達」給你拍照後， 我無法自拔，只是無法自拔。 我沒有掛著吻你，卻擔心長途電話費。 我是沒有歌的歌手， 越是等你 我的愛意越濃。 然後我⋯我只是在想，只是在想 這艘小船正緩緩地下沉。 我厭倦寫明信片，特別是有可愛小狗和丘比特的那種。 我厭倦去給你電話、去想你、夢想着能和你相擁入睡。 不要誤會，我這顆疲憊的心， 仍是瘋狂地愛你。 我只想跟妳戀愛而已。 但我只是不停在想，只是在想 我沒有掛著吻你，卻擔心長途電話費。 時間流逝，我仍沒變。 越是等你， 我的愛意越濃。 我⋯我只是在想， 我⋯我只是在想， 厭倦了每星期給你一次電話。 沒有掛著吻你，卻擔心長途電話費。 甜心，我不能自拔， 只是不能自拔。 （結他音樂結束） （鼓掌聲） 多謝 唱歌是要來分享。你必須要知道，唱歌是發自內心，必須願意讓人分享你的見解，把一部分的你呈現出來。我每樣事情都尋求分享的目的，然後我會問：設計這座建築風格或者這件產品，又或者這間餐廳，或者做這頓菜，背後的目的是什麼？如果你只是想別人留下好印象，或者最後得到掌聲，那麼你只想要收穫，不懂付出。 接下來這首歌是關於—每個人聽了，都有自己的版本的歌。歌名是「家。」這首歌類似是：很高興見到大家，我就是來自這 （笑聲） （鼓掌聲) （鋼琴聲） 家是清晨小鳥的歌聲， 家是一首我永遠難忘的歌， 家是我第一天上學的回憶， 家是我攜帶身邊的書本， 家是遠處小城的窄巷， 家是我想回到的老地方。 家， 我在那裡永遠感到舒適自在。 無論我流浪到那 總會找到歸家的路； 無論我去到多麽遠， 總會覺得牽腸掛肚； 無論我住在那方， 家是羽毛在空中旋轉飛舞， 家是窗邊生長的小花， 家是她跟我說的所有說話， 家是一幅我永不會丟棄的相片， 家是我死去時，仍掛着笑臉， 家是蘋果批的味道。 我遇見一個女子，一直住在那個地方。 她説家就是你出生和長大的地方。 我遇見一個男子，他坐在海邊看海。 他說家就是你想回去的地方。 我在城裏的酒吧，遇見一個女孩。 她説：我會跟他同甘共有。 跟著我問她：為何我們從未見過？ 她説：我這一生人一直尋找 自己的天地。 我在家永遠感到舒適自在。 無論我流浪到那 總會找到歸家家的路； 無論去到那麼遠， 總會覺得牽腸掛肚； 無論我住在那 （鋼琴音樂） （鋼琴音樂結束） （鼓掌聲）
