Talk	en	zh-tw
the_interspecies_internet_an_idea_in_progress	Diana Reiss: You may think you're looking through a window at a dolphin spinning playfully, but what you're actually looking through is a two-way mirror at a dolphin looking at itself spinning playfully. This is a dolphin that is self-aware. This dolphin has self-awareness. It's a young dolphin named Bayley. I've been very interested in understanding the nature of the intelligence of dolphins for the past 30 years. How do we explore intelligence in this animal that's so different from us? And what I've used is a very simple research tool, a mirror, and we've gained great information, reflections of these animal minds. Dolphins aren't the only animals, the only non-human animals, to show mirror self-recognition. We used to think this was a uniquely human ability, but we learned that the great apes, our closest relatives, also show this ability. Then we showed it in dolphins, and then later in elephants. We did this work in my lab with the dolphins and elephants, and it's been recently shown in the magpie. Now, it's interesting, because we've embraced this Darwinian view of a continuity in physical evolution, this physical continuity. But we've been much more reticent, much slower at recognizing this continuity in cognition, in emotion, in consciousness in other animals. Other animals are conscious. They're emotional. They're aware. There have been multitudes of studies with many species over the years that have given us exquisite evidence for thinking and consciousness in other animals, other animals that are quite different than we are in form. We are not alone. We are not alone in these abilities. And I hope, and one of my biggest dreams, is that, with our growing awareness about the consciousness of others and our relationship with the rest of the animal world, that we'll give them the respect and protection that they deserve. So that's a wish I'm throwing out here for everybody, and I hope I can really engage you in this idea. Now, I want to return to dolphins, because these are the animals that I feel like I've been working up closely and personal with for over 30 years. And these are real personalities. They are not persons, but they're personalities in every sense of the word. And you can't get more alien than the dolphin. They are very different from us in body form. They're radically different. They come from a radically different environment. In fact, we're separated by 95 million years of divergent evolution. Look at this body. And in every sense of making a pun here, these are true non-terrestrials. I wondered how we might interface with these animals. In the 1980s, I developed an underwater keyboard. This was a custom-made touch-screen keyboard. What I wanted to do was give the dolphins choice and control. These are big brains, highly social animals, and I thought, well, if we give them choice and control, if they can hit a symbol on this keyboard — and by the way, it was interfaced by fiber optic cables from Hewlett-Packard with an Apple II computer. This seems prehistoric now, but this was where we were with technology. So the dolphins could hit a key, a symbol, they heard a computer-generated whistle, and they got an object or activity. Now here's a little video. This is Delphi and Pan, and you're going to see Delphi hitting a key, he hears a computer-generated whistle — (Whistle) — and gets a ball, so they can actually ask for things they want. What was remarkable is, they explored this keyboard on their own. There was no intervention on our part. They explored the keyboard. They played around with it. They figured out how it worked. And they started to quickly imitate the sounds they were hearing on the keyboard. They imitated on their own. Beyond that, though, they started learning associations between the symbols, the sounds and the objects. What we saw was self-organized learning, and now I'm imagining, what can we do with new technologies? How can we create interfaces, new windows into the minds of animals, with the technologies that exist today? So I was thinking about this, and then, one day, I got a call from Peter. Peter Gabriel: I make noises for a living. On a good day, it's music, and I want to talk a little bit about the most amazing music-making experience I ever had. I'm a farm boy. I grew up surrounded by animals, and I would look in these eyes and wonder what was going on there? So as an adult, when I started to read about the amazing breakthroughs with Penny Patterson and Koko, with Sue Savage-Rumbaugh and Kanzi, Panbanisha, Irene Pepperberg, Alex the parrot, I got all excited. What was amazing to me also was they seemed a lot more adept at getting a handle on our language than we were on getting a handle on theirs. I work with a lot of musicians from around the world, and often we don't have any common language at all, but we sit down behind our instruments, and suddenly there's a way for us to connect and emote. So I started cold-calling, and eventually got through to Sue Savage-Rumbaugh, and she invited me down. I went down, and the bonobos had had access to percussion instruments, musical toys, but never before to a keyboard. At first they did what infants do, just bashed it with their fists, and then I asked, through Sue, if Panbanisha could try with one finger only. Sue Savage-Rumbaugh: Can you play a grooming song? I want to hear a grooming song. Play a real quiet grooming song. PG: So groom was the subject of the piece. (Music) So I'm just behind, jamming, yeah, this is what we started with. Sue's encouraging her to continue a little more. (Music) She discovers a note she likes, finds the octave. She'd never sat at a keyboard before. Nice triplets. SSR: You did good. That was very good. PG: She hit good. (Applause) So that night, we began to dream, and we thought, perhaps the most amazing tool that man's created is the Internet, and what would happen if we could somehow find new interfaces, visual-audio interfaces that would allow these remarkable sentient beings that we share the planet with access? And Sue Savage-Rumbaugh got excited about that, called her friend Steve Woodruff, and we began hustling all sorts of people whose work related or was inspiring, which led us to Diana, and led us to Neil. Neil Gershenfeld: Thanks, Peter. PG: Thank you. (Applause) NG: So Peter approached me. I lost it when I saw that clip. He approached me with a vision of doing these things not for people, for animals. And then I was struck in the history of the Internet. This is what the Internet looked like when it was born and you can call that the Internet of middle-aged white men, mostly middle-aged white men. Vint Cerf: (Laughs) (Laughter) NG: Speaking as one. Then, when I first came to TED, which was where I met Peter, I showed this. This is a $1 web server, and at the time that was radical. And the possibility of making a web server for a dollar grew into what became known as the Internet of Things, which is literally an industry now with tremendous implications for health care, energy efficiency. And we were happy with ourselves. And then when Peter showed me that, I realized we had missed something, which is the rest of the planet. So we started up this interspecies Internet project. Now we started talking with TED about how you bring dolphins and great apes and elephants to TED, and we realized that wouldn't work. So we're going to bring you to them. So if we could switch to the audio from this computer, we've been video conferencing with cognitive animals, and we're going to have each of them just briefly introduce them. And so if we could also have this up, great. So the first site we're going to meet is Cameron Park Zoo in Waco, with orangutans. In the daytime they live outside. It's nighttime there now. So can you please go ahead? Terri Cox: Hi, I'm Terri Cox with the Cameron Park Zoo in Waco, Texas, and with me I have KeraJaan and Mei, two of our Bornean orangutans. During the day, they have a beautiful, large outdoor habitat, and at night, they come into this habitat, into their night quarters, where they can have a climate-controlled and secure environment to sleep in. We participate in the Apps for Apes program Orangutan Outreach, and we use iPads to help stimulate and enrich the animals, and also help raise awareness for these critically endangered animals. And they share 97 percent of our DNA and are incredibly intelligent, so it's so exciting to think of all the opportunities that we have via technology and the Internet to really enrich their lives and open up their world. We're really excited about the possibility of an interspecies Internet, and K.J. has been enjoying the conference very much. NG: That's great. When we were rehearsing last night, he had fun watching the elephants. Next user group are the dolphins at the National Aquarium. Please go ahead. Allison Ginsburg: Good evening. Well, my name is Allison Ginsburg, and we're live in Baltimore at the National Aquarium. Joining me are three of our eight Atlantic bottlenose dolphins: 20-year-old Chesapeake, who was our first dolphin born here, her four-year-old daughter Bayley, and her half sister, 11-year-old Maya. Now, here at the National Aquarium we are committed to excellence in animal care, to research, and to conservation. The dolphins are pretty intrigued as to what's going on here tonight. They're not really used to having cameras here at 8 o'clock at night. In addition, we are very committed to doing different types of research. As Diana mentioned, our animals are involved in many different research studies. NG: Those are for you. Okay, that's great, thank you. And the third user group, in Thailand, is Think Elephants. Go ahead, Josh. Josh Plotnik: Hi, my name is Josh Plotnik, and I'm with Think Elephants International, and we're here in the Golden Triangle of Thailand with the Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation elephants. And we have 26 elephants here, and our research is focused on the evolution of intelligence with elephants, but our foundation Think Elephants is focused on bringing elephants into classrooms around the world virtually like this and showing people how incredible these animals are. So we're able to bring the camera right up to the elephant, put food into the elephant's mouth, show people what's going on inside their mouths, and show everyone around the world how incredible these animals really are. NG: Okay, that's great. Thanks Josh. And once again, we've been building great relationships among them just since we've been rehearsing. So at that point, if we can go back to the other computer, we were starting to think about how you integrate the rest of the biomass of the planet into the Internet, and we went to the best possible person I can think of, which is Vint Cerf, who is one of the founders who gave us the Internet. Vint? VC: Thank you, Neil. (Applause) A long time ago in a galaxy — oops, wrong script. Forty years ago, Bob Kahn and I did the design of the Internet. Thirty years ago, we turned it on. Just last year, we turned on the production Internet. You've been using the experimental version for the last 30 years. The production version, it uses IP version 6. It has 3.4 times 10 to the 38th possible terminations. That's a number only that Congress can appreciate. But it leads to what is coming next. When Bob and I did this design, we thought we were building a system to connect computers together. What we very quickly discovered is that this was a system for connecting people together. And what you've seen tonight tells you that we should not restrict this network to one species, that these other intelligent, sentient species should be part of the system too. This is the system as it looks today, by the way. This is what the Internet looks like to a computer that's trying to figure out where the traffic is supposed to go. This is generated by a program that's looking at the connectivity of the Internet, and how all the various networks are connected together. There are about 400,000 networks, interconnected, run independently by 400,000 different operating agencies, and the only reason this works is that they all use the same standard TCP/IP protocols. Well, you know where this is headed. The Internet of Things tell us that a lot of computer-enabled appliances and devices are going to become part of this system too: appliances that you use around the house, that you use in your office, that you carry around with yourself or in the car. That's the Internet of Things that's coming. Now, what's important about what these people are doing is that they're beginning to learn how to communicate with species that are not us but share a common sensory environment. We're beginning to explore what it means to communicate with something that isn't just another person. Well, you can see what's coming next. All kinds of possible sentient beings may be interconnected through this system, and I can't wait to see these experiments unfold. What happens after that? Well, let's see. There are machines that need to talk to machines and that we need to talk to, and so as time goes on, we're going to have to learn how to communicate with computers and how to get computers to communicate with us in the way that we're accustomed to, not with keyboards, not with mice, but with speech and gestures and all the natural human language that we're accustomed to. So we'll need something like C3PO to become a translator between ourselves and some of the other machines we live with. Now, there is a project that's underway called the interplanetary Internet. It's in operation between Earth and Mars. It's operating on the International Space Station. It's part of the spacecraft that's in orbit around the Sun that's rendezvoused with two planets. So the interplanetary system is on its way, but there's a last project, which the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which funded the original ARPANET, funded the Internet, funded the interplanetary architecture, is now funding a project to design a spacecraft to get to the nearest star in 100 years' time. What that means is that what we're learning with these interactions with other species will teach us, ultimately, how we might interact with an alien from another world. I can hardly wait. (Applause) June Cohen: So first of all, thank you, and I would like to acknowledge that four people who could talk to us for full four days actually managed to stay to four minutes each, and we thank you for that. I have so many questions, but maybe a few practical things that the audience might want to know. You're launching this idea here at TED — PG: Today. JC: Today. This is the first time you're talking about it. Tell me a little bit about where you're going to take the idea. What's next? PG: I think we want to engage as many people here as possible in helping us think of smart interfaces that will make all this possible. NG: And just mechanically, there's a 501(c)(3) and web infrastructure and all of that, but it's not quite ready to turn on, so we'll roll that out, and contact us if you want the information on it. The idea is this will be — much like the Internet functions as a network of networks, which is Vint's core contribution, this will be a wrapper around all of these initiatives, that are wonderful individually, to link them globally. JC: Right, and do you have a web address that we might look for yet? NG: Shortly. JC: Shortly. We will come back to you on that. And very quickly, just to clarify. Some people might have looked at the video that you showed and thought, well, that's just a webcam. What's special about it? If you could talk for just a moment about how you want to go past that? NG: So this is scalable video infrastructure, not for a few to a few but many to many, so that it scales to symmetrical video sharing and content sharing across these sites around the planet. So there's a lot of back-end signal processing, not for one to many, but for many to many. JC: Right, and then on a practical level, which technologies are you looking at first? I know you mentioned that a keyboard is a really key part of this. DR: We're trying to develop an interactive touch screen for dolphins. This is sort of a continuation of some of the earlier work, and we just got our first seed money today towards that, so it's our first project. JC: Before the talk, even. DR: Yeah. JC: Wow. Well done. All right, well thank you all so much for joining us. It's such a delight to have you on the stage. DR: Thank you. VC: Thank you. (Applause)	黛安娜．瑞斯 (Diana Reiss)：你可能會以為你透過一扇窗，看一隻海豚在旋轉玩耍，但是其實你看到的是一面雙向鏡，裡頭的海豚看著自己在旋轉玩耍。這是有自我意識的海豚，這隻海豚有自我意識。這隻小海豚名叫貝利 (Bayley)。 過去三十年來，我對海豚有智能的天性很有興趣，我們怎麼發掘這種和我們如此不同的動物所具有的智能？我用的是非常簡單的研究工具：一面鏡子，而且我們從中搜集到許多這些動物的資訊和內心的反應。海豚不是唯一一種不是人類，卻能夠從鏡中辨識自我的動物。過去我們總以為這是人類獨特的技能，但是我們從人類的近親大猩猩身上，也看到了這項能力。然後，我們在海豚和大象的身上也看到了，我們在研究室中發現海豚和大象都做到了。最近我們發現的還有鵲。 這其中的奧妙在於一直以來，我們都遵循達爾文在形體演化的連續理論，但是我們卻很晚才察覺演化不僅僅發生在形體，其他的動物在認知、情感、知覺上，也都有演化的連續性。其他的動物是有知覺的，牠們有感情、有意識。多年來，有許多不同物種的研究，提供了確切的證據，證明了其他動物具有思考和知覺的能力，那些動物的形體和我們很不一樣。我們不是獨一無二的。我們並不是獨一無二擁有這些能力的動物。我希望，我最大的夢想之一就是隨著更加認知到地球上其他動物具有知覺，而我們和牠們的關係更緊密，人類就能用更公平的方式來尊敬與保護牠們。因此，今天我要把這個願望分享給每一位，希望你們也可以認同這個想法。 現在，讓我們回到海豚，因為我覺得，牠們已經和我一同親密共事了超過三十年。牠們都有真實的人格特質。牠們不是人，但是牠們對不同的事情也會展現不同的人格特質。你無法找到比海豚更獨特的生物了。牠們和我們的體型大不相同，牠們生來就很特別，在很特別的環境中生長。其實，我們早在九千五百萬年前就發生趨異演化，產生分歧。看看這個身體。說句雙關語，牠們真的都不是地球人／陸地生物 ( non-terrestrials)。 我曾疑惑要怎麼和這些動物搭上線，1980 年代時，我發明了一種水底按鍵板，這是一種客製化的觸控式按鍵板。我想讓海豚能夠選擇和控制。這些是有較大的腦和高度社交能力的動物。我想，嗯，如果我們給牠們一些選擇和控制，如果牠們可以按一下按鍵板上的符號——附帶一提，這是由惠普 (HP)所製成的光纖電纜面板，透過 Apple II 電腦來操作。現在看起來很過時，但那是我們當時僅有的技術。海豚能按符號按鈕，牠們聽到電腦發出的哨音，就能夠找到對應的物體或活動。 現在我們來看一小段影片，這是德爾斐 (Delphi) 和潘 (Pan)，你會看到德爾斐按了一顆按鈕，牠聽到電腦發出的哨音，（哨音）然後牠拿了球，因此牠們真的可以要求牠們想要拿到的東西。驚人的是，牠們是靠自己學會用這塊按鍵板的，我們完全沒有插手，牠們自己摸索按鍵板，繞著它玩耍。牠們找出使用的方法，然後在短時間內就開始學著模仿牠們在按鍵板上聽到的聲音。牠們自己模仿。這代表了牠們還開始學習符號、聲音和物體之間的關係。 我們看到的是牠們有自主學習的能力，我開始想像，我們可以運用什麼樣的新技術？我們可以如何運用現有的科技設計介面、開啟動物心靈的新視窗？ 因此，我開始構想這件事，然後有一天，我接到了彼得的電話。 彼得．蓋布瑞爾 (Peter Gabriel)：我靠製造噪音為生。在好日子的時候，我做的就是音樂，我想談一點關於我曾經歷最美妙的音樂創作經驗。 我是農村男孩，成長過程中被動物環繞，我會看著牠們的眼睛，疑惑著裡頭發生了什麼事？長大後，我開始讀一些有重大突破的驚人故事，像是佩妮．帕特森博士 ( Penny Patterson)和可可 (Koko)、休．薩瓦戈 - 魯姆博夫 (Sue Savage-Rumbaugh) 博士和坎茲 (Kanzi)、潘班尼莎 (Panbanisha)、艾琳．派波柏格 (Irene Pepperberg)、鸚鵡亞歷克斯 (Alex)，這些故事讓我非常興奮！最讓我驚奇的是牠們似乎非常擅於使用人類的語言，相較之下，我們對牠們的語言反而認識甚少。我和世界上許多音樂家合作，通常我們沒有任何的共通語言，但是當我們坐在自己的樂器後，瞬間我們就能連結彼此、表達情感。 因此，我開始到處打電話詢問，終於我找到了休博士，她邀請我過去。我到那裡時，矮黑猩猩已經會敲打樂器和音樂玩具，但是還沒用過鋼琴鍵盤。一開始，牠們就像小嬰兒一樣，用拳頭胡亂敲打。然後我透過休博士問潘班尼莎能不能試著只用一根手指頭？ 休博士：你可以彈一首編排過的曲子嗎？我想聽一首曲子，彈一首不那麼吵的曲子。 彼得：因此主題是編排過的曲子。 （音樂）我只是站在後頭，適時介入，嗯，這是最初的作品，休博士鼓勵牠多彈一點。 （音樂） 牠發現了喜歡的音符，牠找到了音階。牠以前從來沒有坐在鍵盤前過。這個三連音不錯。 休博士：你做得很好，非常棒！ 彼得：牠彈得很棒！ （掌聲） 因此那天晚上，我們開始想像，也許人類最棒的發明是網路，我們是否能夠找到新的介面，一種影音介面，讓這些和我們共同居住在地球上的非凡物種能夠使用的？休博士對這件事很興奮，她撥電話給朋友史提夫．伍德拉夫 (Steve Woodruff)，然後，我們就開始找尋在這領域工作，並且從事相關的激勵人心工作的朋友。後來，我們找到了黛安娜，認識了尼爾。 尼爾．格申斐德 (Neil Gershenfeld)：謝謝彼得。彼得：謝謝！ （掌聲） 尼爾：後來，彼得和我聯繫。這個影片完全吸引了我的目光。他帶我進入新的視野，做這些事不是為了人類，而是為了動物。 然後我開始研究起網路的歷史。這是網路剛誕生時的模樣，你可以說網路就是白種的中年男子。幾乎都是白種的中年男子。 文頓．瑟夫 (Vint Cerf)：（大笑） （笑聲） 尼爾：說中一個了。然後，在我第一次來 TED 的時候，我認識了彼得，我給他看了這個。這是一塊美金的網頁伺服器，這在那時候是很前衛的。以一塊錢做一個網頁伺服器的潛力無窮，這後來演變成眾所皆知的物聯網，現在大量運用在健康照護與節約能源兩大產業中。我們很自得其樂。當彼得給我看那個東西時，我意識到，我們一定遺漏了什麼，我們遺漏了地球的另一部分。因此，我們開始進行物種間的網絡計畫。後來，我們開始和 TED 討論，要怎麼把海豚、大猩猩和大象帶來 TED，我們發現不可能，所以，我們要把你們帶到牠們面前。如果我們打開這台電腦的影音，就能和有認知能力的動物進行視訊會議，現在就讓牠們一一簡短地自我介紹。這個能投影到上面嗎？太好了。 首先，我們來到韋科 (Waco) 的卡梅倫動物園 (Cameron Park Zoo)拜訪猩猩。白天牠們會在戶外，現在那邊是晚上。可以開始了嗎？ 泰芮．柯克斯 (Terri Cox)：嗨，我是泰芮．柯克斯，我在德州韋科的卡梅倫動物園，在我身邊的是名叫可拉．潔安 (KeraJaan) 和梅 (Mei)的婆羅洲猩猩 (Bornean orangutan) 。白天，牠們可以待在戶外一個很大、很美麗的棲息地裡；晚上，牠們回到這裡，待在牠們的夜間宿舍，牠們可以在受到溫溼度控制，又安全的環境睡覺。我們參加了紅毛猩猩外展組織(Orangutan Outreach) 的猿猴專用 Apps 計劃，我們用 iPad 來鼓勵和充實動物的生活。另外也協助提升一些臨終動物的知覺。牠們的 DNA 和人類有 97% 的相似度，而且牠們非常聰明，想到有機會藉由科技和網路來豐富牠們的生活、拓展牠們的世界，讓我非常興奮。我們很期待物種網絡實現的可能。可拉很喜歡今天的會議。 尼爾：太好了！我們昨晚彩排的時候，牠見到大象時很開心。下一組使用的團體是在國家水族館的海豚。請開始。 愛莉森．金斯伯格 (Allison Ginsburg)：午安！嗯，我的名字是愛莉森．金斯伯格，我們現在國家水族館巴爾的摩分館。我身旁的是館內八隻寬吻海豚中的三隻：二十歲的契沙比克 (Chesapeake)，是第一隻在這裡出生的海豚，還有她四歲大的女兒貝里 (Bayley)、同父異母的十一歲妹妹瑪雅 (Maya)。這裡是國家水族館，我們致力於優質的動物照顧、研究和保護。海豚對今晚這裡發生的事很好奇，牠們不太習慣晚上八點在這兒對著攝影機。另外，我們也致力於做各種不同種類的研究。如同黛安娜所說的，我們的動物參與了很多不同種類的研究。 尼爾：這是為你們做的表演。真好，謝謝你！接下來第三組使用的團體是位在泰國的關懷大象基金會 (Think Elephants)，喬許，請說。 喬許．普拉尼克 (Josh Plotnik)：嗨！我是喬許．普拉尼克。我和國際關懷大象基金會(Think Elephants International)在泰國的金三角，我們和泰國的亞洲金三角大象基金會(Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation)的大象在一起。我們在這裡有二十六隻大象。我們的研究著重在大象的智能演化。但是我們所屬的關懷大象基金會著重在把大象帶進全世界的教室裡，就像現在這樣，讓大家見識這些動物多麼驚人。我們可以把相機放在大象的上方，餵大象吃東西，讓大家看看牠們嘴巴裡的樣子，讓全世界的人見識這些動物多麼驚人。 尼爾：太棒了！謝謝喬許。同樣地，從彩排起，我們就和牠們建立了良好的關係。在那一刻，如果我們可以回到另一台電腦，我們開始設想要如何在網路上結合地球上的其他生物體。然後我們找到我腦海裡最好的人選，文頓．瑟夫，他是把網路帶到這個世界的發明家之一，文頓？ 文頓：謝謝你，尼爾。 （掌聲） 很久很久以前的銀河系裡——噢噢，我唸錯稿了。四十年前，鮑勃．卡恩 (Bob Kahn) 和我發明了網路。三十年前，我們讓它和世人見面。去年，我們讓網路成品上市。你們已經使用了試用版三十年。成品要用網際網路通訊協定第六版 (IP version 6)，它能有 3.4 乘上 10 的 38 次方個位址，這種數字只有國會會讚賞。但是它帶領我們進入了下一個階段。當年我和鮑勃設計時，我們以為只是架了一個系統，能夠連結所有的電腦。不久之後，我們發現，其實我們設計的是連結人類的系統。而今晚你所見到的，讓你知道，我們不該把網路只侷限在一個物種裡，其他有智慧和感情的物種也應該一同參與。這是現在網路的模樣，附帶一提，這是電腦眼中網路的樣子，要試著找出這些線路應該連到哪裡去。這張是由一個觀察網路連結情形，以及不同的網絡如何連結在一起的計畫所產出的圖片。大概有四十萬條網絡相互連結，由四十萬台不同的電腦運作，這件事可行的唯一原因是他們都使用相同標準的 TCP/IP 通訊協定。 嗯，你知道未來會怎麼發展。物聯網讓我們知道，許多能在電腦上使用的裝置和設備，像是我們在家裡、辦公室、車上，或是隨身帶著的裝置，也都將成為系統的一部分。這就是即將來臨的物聯網。現在，這些人做的事所象徵的重要意義是：他們開始學習如何和其他物種溝通，而非人類，他們也和我們共享感觀世界，我們開始探索和非人類的物種溝通代表了什麼意義。嗯，你可以看到接下來會發生什麼事。所有可能有感知的物種都可能透過這個系統來互動，我等不及想體驗看看了。 在那之後會發生什麼事呢？嗯，讓我們來看看。我們需要有能夠彼此對話的機器，還有能夠和我們對話的機器，之後，我們就要學著去和電腦溝通，而且是用我們以往習慣的方式讓電腦和我們溝通，不是透過鍵盤、滑鼠，而是透過說話和手勢，以及所有我們慣用的自然人類語言。因此，我們需要像 C3PO 這樣的東西，（C3PO：電影《星際大戰》中的機器人）來擔任我們和其它我們仰賴的機器之間的翻譯。 現在有一個進行中的計畫，叫做星際網路 (interplanetary Internet)。在地球和火星之間的國際太空站運行。它屬於太空船的一部分，在繞著太陽運行的軌道中，會與兩顆行星會合。星際網路的系統正在進行中，但是還有一個最終的計畫，國防高級研究計劃局(Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)就是當時設計阿帕網路計畫 (ARPNET)、發明了網路、星際網路架構的單位，正在設計一艘能夠在一百年內抵達最近的星球的太空船。意義在於，我們從和其他物種間的互動中所學到的，最終，也會讓我們學會如何和其它星球的外星人互動。我一刻也等不及了！ （鼓掌） 茱恩．柯恩 (Jun Cohen)：首先，謝謝你們。謝謝四位分別用短短的四分鐘，和我們分享本來需要講上四天四夜的事，非常謝謝你們。 我有很多問題，不過也許觀眾會想知道一些較實務的經驗。你在 TED 分享的這個理念，是從…彼得：今天。 茱恩：今天，這是第一次討論此事。多告訴我們一點未來你會怎麼做？下一步是什麼？ 彼得：我們想要盡可能讓更多人參與，來協助我們設計出更智慧型的介面，讓這一切都能成真。 尼爾：在機械方面，我們有一個非營利組織和公共網頁，但是還在建置中，我們會完成它，如果你想要相關資訊，請和我們聯絡。這個概念是，它會變成像是網路的功能，變成許多網絡的網絡，這是文頓貢獻的精髓，這將會成為這些行動的外包裝，一個個完美地將全球連結在一起。 茱恩：沒錯，你有網址能給我們上網看看嗎？ 尼爾：馬上告訴你。茱恩：馬上，我們回頭再問你。 快速地釐清一件事，有些人看了你剛分享的影片，可能會想，嗯，只是網路攝影機，有什麼特別？你能不能和我們簡短談談你未來要如何超越它？ 尼爾：這是可以擴展的公用設施，不是只提供給一些人，而是給許多人使用。因此，它能擴展到讓影片對等地分享，並且能夠透過在全球的這些點來做分享。所以會有很多後端的訊號處理，不只是一個對多個，而是多個對多個。 茱恩：沒錯。至於在實務層面，你首要尋找的是什麼樣的科技？你提到按鍵板是很重要的一環。 黛安娜：我們想為海豚設計互動式的觸控面板，這有點像是延續早期的一些工作，今天只是從第一批種子得到回饋，那是我們的第一個計畫。 茱恩：早在這場演說前？黛安娜：是的。 茱恩：哇，真棒。好的，非常感謝你們的參與，很榮幸能邀請各位上台分享。 黛安娜：謝謝！文頓：謝謝！ （掌聲）
