Talk	en	zh-tw
tim_leberecht_3_ways_to_usefully_lose_control_of_your_reputation	"Companies are losing control. What happens on Wall Street no longer stays on Wall Street. What happens in Vegas ends up on YouTube. (Laughter) Reputations are volatile. Loyalties are fickle. Management teams seem increasingly disconnected from their staff. (Laughter) A recent survey said that 27 percent of bosses believe their employees are inspired by their firm. However, in the same survey, only four percent of employees agreed. Companies are losing control of their customers and their employees. But are they really? I'm a marketer, and as a marketer, I know that I've never really been in control. Your brand is what other people say about you when you're not in the room, the saying goes. Hyperconnectivity and transparency allow companies to be in that room now, 24/7. They can listen and join the conversation. In fact, they have more control over the loss of control than ever before. They can design for it. But how? First of all, they can give employees and customers more control. They can collaborate with them on the creation of ideas, knowledge, content, designs and product. They can give them more control over pricing, which is what the band Radiohead did with its pay-as-you-like online release of its album ""In Rainbows."" Buyers could determine the price, but the offer was exclusive, and only stood for a limited period of time. The album sold more copies than previous releases of the band. The Danish chocolate company Anthon Berg opened a so-called ""generous store"" in Copenhagen. It asked customers to purchase chocolate with the promise of good deeds towards loved ones. It turned transactions into interactions, and generosity into a currency. Companies can even give control to hackers. When Microsoft Kinect came out, the motion-controlled add-on to its Xbox gaming console, it immediately drew the attention of hackers. Microsoft first fought off the hacks, but then shifted course when it realized that actively supporting the community came with benefits. The sense of co-ownership, the free publicity, the added value, all helped drive sales. The ultimate empowerment of customers is to ask them not to buy. Outdoor clothier Patagonia encouraged prospective buyers to check out eBay for its used products and to resole their shoes before purchasing new ones. In an even more radical stance against consumerism, the company placed a ""Don't Buy This Jacket"" advertisement during the peak of shopping season. It may have jeopardized short-term sales, but it builds lasting, long-term loyalty based on shared values. Research has shown that giving employees more control over their work makes them happier and more productive. The Brazilian company Semco Group famously lets employees set their own work schedules and even their salaries. Hulu and Netflix, among other companies, have open vacation policies. Companies can give people more control, but they can also give them less control. Traditional business wisdom holds that trust is earned by predictable behavior, but when everything is consistent and standardized, how do you create meaningful experiences? Giving people less control might be a wonderful way to counter the abundance of choice and make them happier. Take the travel service Nextpedition. Nextpedition turns the trip into a game, with surprising twists and turns along the way. It does not tell the traveler where she's going until the very last minute, and information is provided just in time. Similarly, Dutch airline KLM launched a surprise campaign, seemingly randomly handing out small gifts to travelers en route to their destination. U.K.-based Interflora monitored Twitter for users who were having a bad day, and then sent them a free bouquet of flowers. Is there anything companies can do to make their employees feel less pressed for time? Yes. Force them to help others. A recent study suggests that having employees complete occasional altruistic tasks throughout the day increases their sense of overall productivity. At Frog, the company I work for, we hold internal speed meet sessions that connect old and new employees, helping them get to know each other fast. By applying a strict process, we give them less control, less choice, but we enable more and richer social interactions. Companies are the makers of their fortunes, and like all of us, they are utterly exposed to serendipity. That should make them more humble, more vulnerable and more human. At the end of the day, as hyperconnectivity and transparency expose companies' behavior in broad daylight, staying true to their true selves is the only sustainable value proposition. Or as the ballet dancer Alonzo King said, ""What's interesting about you is you."" For the true selves of companies to come through, openness is paramount, but radical openness is not a solution, because when everything is open, nothing is open. ""A smile is a door that is half open and half closed,"" the author Jennifer Egan wrote. Companies can give their employees and customers more control or less. They can worry about how much openness is good for them, and what needs to stay closed. Or they can simply smile, and remain open to all possibilities. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause)"	公司已經無法掌控一切。華爾街發生的事不再只是華爾街的事賭城發生的事 上了YouTube(笑聲)名譽搖搖欲墜 忠誠岌岌可危管理團隊似乎與員工漸行漸遠(笑聲)最近某項調查顯示27%的老闆相信自己的公司能啟發員工但是同一份調查也發現 只有4%的員工贊同這個說法公司已經無法掌控一切客戶 員工 都不再受控制真的是這樣嗎？ 我是行銷人員 就我所知的行銷這一行呢就是我從來沒被控制過話說得好「品牌是你不在場時‧‧‧」「別人對你的評價」超連結和透明制讓公司現在能夠24小時都在場隨時都是對話的一份子事實上 公司能夠控制的程度前所未有地高精心設計就可以做到 但怎麼做呢？ 首先 讓顧客和員工擁有更多控制權讓他們一起參與創意知識 內容 設計 和產品的發想或是讓他們自訂價格搖滾樂團電台司令就採取這個策略以愛付多少就付多少的方式線上發行《彩虹裡》專輯 雖說樂迷自己訂價但是價格是獨斷 而且限時的這張專輯的銷量大勝過往專輯丹麥巧克力公司:丹麥恩格在哥本哈根開了所謂的「善行店」要求顧客選購巧克力時要以承諾支付 保證會善待親朋好友丹麥恩格將交易轉化為互動善行成為貨幣公司甚至可以給駭客控制權當微軟的Kinect問市時這個由動作控制的Xbox遊戲主機周邊裝置立刻引起駭客的注意一開始微軟力圖對抗 但後來改變戰略因為微軟發現 積極與駭客社群互動其實大有好處共有感，免費宣傳和其他附加價值，等等都讓銷量翻倍 授權顧客的終極策略就是叫顧客別買戶外服裝品牌Patagonia鼓勵潛在顧客先上eBay找找二手服飾先修舊鞋 再來買新的為了更加激進地抵制消費主義 Patagonia還發起活動大打「別買這件外套」的廣告而且是在購物季正如火如荼的時候這種手法也許有損短期銷量卻能建立品牌的長期忠誠度因為顧客認同其價值 研究顯示 如果員工能對工作更有掌控權就會更開心、更有生產力巴西Semco集團之所以出名就是讓員工自訂工作表甚至薪水其他公司還包括Hulu和Netflix定有開放性休假政策 公司可以釋出更多掌控權也可以收回掌控權傳統的商業金科玉律認為信任建立在可預期行為上但是當一切都一致化 標準化時要如何創造有意義的經驗？減少授權 或許是個好方法來減輕過多的選擇量並且讓人們更開心以Nextpedition這家旅行社為例他們把旅行變成遊戲一路上都有意想不到的驚奇旅行社會一直賣關子 旅客要到最後一刻才知道自己要去哪 才會拿到相關資訊荷蘭航空公司KLM也用類似手法推出驚喜之旅 用表面上隨機的方式送小禮物給旅客一路直到他們抵達目的地總公司在英國的花店Interflora利用Twitter鎖定心情不好的使用者免費送上一束鮮花 公司有沒有什麼辦法減少員工的時間壓力？有的就是強迫他們幫助別人最近一項研究建議 如果能讓員工每天能抽點時間進行一些有利他人的活動就能讓他們覺得整體生產力提高在我工作的公司Frog會舉行內部快速會議 增加資深和新進員工的互動幫助他們快速地瞭解彼此透過嚴密的過程 我們給員工較少的控制權較少的選擇 但能提供更多更豐富的人際互動 公司的財富由公司創造和我們所有人一樣 公司也會隨時會遇到突發狀況這應該會讓公司更謙遜 更脆弱也更具人性說到底 超連結性和透明制讓公司的所做所為暴露在光天化日之下 而忠於自我是唯一具有持久性的有效提案或是如同芭蕾舞者阿隆索‧金恩所說：「你的有趣之處 就是你自己」要表現出公司的本色開誠佈公是不二法門但是徹底公開不是個好方法因為公開一切 等於什麼都沒公開「微笑是一扇半開半闔的門」這是作家珍妮佛‧伊根寫的公司可以授與員工和客戶更多或更少的控制權可以評估公開多少對自己有利 什麼又是不能公開的或者是微微一笑 保持開放接受各種可能謝謝各位(掌聲)(掌聲)
