Talk	en	zh-tw
timothy_prestero_design_for_people_not_awards	"I've got a great idea that's going to change the world. It's fantastic, it's going to blow your mind. It's my beautiful baby. Here's the thing: everybody loves a beautiful baby. I mean, I was a beautiful baby. Here's me and my dad a couple days after I was born. So in the world of product design, the beautiful baby's like the concept car. It's the knockout. You see it and you go, ""Oh, my God. I'd buy that in a second!"" So why is it that this year's new cars look pretty much exactly like last year's new cars? (Laughter) What went wrong between the design studio and the factory? Today, I don't want to talk about beautiful babies, I want to talk about the awkward adolescence of design — those sort of dorky teenage years where you're trying to figure out how the world works. I'm going to start with an example from some work that we did on newborn health. So here's a problem: four million babies around the world, mostly in developing countries, die every year before their first birthday, even before their first month of life. It turns out half of those kids, or about 1.8 million newborns around the world, would make it if you could just keep them warm for the first three days, maybe the first week. So this is a newborn intensive care unit in Kathmandu, Nepal. All of these kids in blankets belong in incubators — something like this. This is a donated Japanese Atom incubator that we found in a NICU in Kathmandu. This is what we want. Probably what happened is a hospital in Japan upgraded their equipment and donated their old stuff to Nepal. The problem is, without technicians, without spare parts, donations like this very quickly turn into junk. So this seemed like a problem that we could do something about. Keeping a baby warm for a week — that's not rocket science. So we got started. We partnered with a leading medical research institution here in Boston. We conducted months of user research overseas, trying to think like designers, human-centered design — ""Let's figure out what people want."" We killed thousands of Post-it notes. We made dozens of prototypes to get to this. So this is the NeoNurture infant incubator, and this has a lot of smarts built into it, and we felt great. So the idea here is, unlike the concept car, we want to marry something beautiful with something that actually works. And our idea is that this design would inspire manufacturers and other people of influence to take this model and run with it. Here's the bad news: the only baby ever actually put inside the NeoNurture incubator was this kid during a Time magazine photo shoot. So recognition is fantastic. We want design to get out for people to see it. It won lots of awards. But it felt like a booby prize. We wanted to make beautiful things that are going to make the world a better place, and I don't think this kid was even in it long enough to get warm. So it turns out that design  for inspiration doesn't really ... I guess what I would say is, for us, for what I want to do, it's either too slow or it just doesn't work, it's ineffective. So, really, I want to design for outcomes. I don't want to make beautiful stuff; I want to make the world a better place. So when we were designing NeoNurture, we paid a lot of attention to the people who are going to use this thing, for example, poor families, rural doctors, overloaded nurses, even repair technicians. We thought we had all our bases covered, we'd done everything right. Well, it turns out there's this whole constellation of people who have to be involved in a product for it to be successful: manufacturing, financing, distribution, regulation. Michael Free at PATH says you have to figure out who will ""choose, use and pay the dues"" for a product like this. And I have to ask the question that VCs always ask: ""Sir, what is your business, and who is your customer?"" Who is our customer? Well, here's an example. This is a Bangladeshi hospital director outside his facility. It turns out he doesn't buy any of his equipment. Those decisions are made by the Ministry of Health or by foreign donors, and it just kind of shows up. Similarly, here's a multinational medical-device manufacturer. It turns out they've got to fish where the fish are. So it turns out that in emerging markets — where the fish are — are the emerging middle class of these countries — diseases of affluence: heart disease, infertility. So it turns out that design for outcomes in one aspect really means thinking about design for manufacture and distribution. OK, that was an important lesson. Second, we took that lesson and tried to push it into our next project. So we started by finding a manufacturer, an organization called MTTS in Vietnam, that manufactures newborn-care technologies for Southeast Asia. Our other partner is East Meets West, an American foundation that distributes that technology to poor hospitals around that region. So we started with them, saying, ""Well, what do you want? What's a problem you want to solve?"" And they said, ""Let's work on newborn jaundice."" So this is another one of these mind-boggling global problems. Jaundice affects two-thirds of newborns around the world. Of those newborns, one in 10 roughly, if it's not treated, the jaundice gets so severe that it leads to either a life-long disability, or the kids could even die. There's one way to treat jaundice, and that's what's called an exchange transfusion. So as you can imagine, that's expensive and a little bit dangerous. There is another cure. It's very technological, it's very complex, a little daunting. You've got to shine blue light on the kid. (Laughter) Bright blue light on as much of the skin as you can cover. How is this a hard problem? I went to MIT. OK, we'll figure that out. (Laughter) So here's an example. This is an overhead phototherapy device that's designed for American hospitals, and here's how it's supposed to be used. It's over the baby, illuminating a single patient. Take it out of an American hospital, send it overseas to a crowded facility in Asia, here's how it's actually used. The effectiveness of phototherapy is a function of light intensity. These dark blue squares show you where it's effective phototherapy. Here's what it looks like under actual use. So those kids on the edges aren't actually receiving effective phototherapy. But without training, without some kind of light meter, how would you know? We see other examples of problems like this. Here's a neonatal intensive care unit, where moms come in to visit their babies. And keep in mind that Mom maybe just had a C-section, so that's already kind of a bummer. Mom's visiting her kid. She sees her baby naked, lying under some blue lights, looking kind of vulnerable. It's not uncommon for Mom to put a blanket over the baby. From a phototherapy standpoint, maybe not the best behavior. In fact, that sounds kind of dumb. Except, what we've learned is that there's no such thing as a dumb user — there are only dumb products. We have to think like existentialists: it's not the painting we would have painted, it's the painting that we actually painted. It's the use — designed for actual use. How are people actually going to use this? So, similarly, when we think about our partner MTTS, they've made some amazing technologies for treating newborn illnesses. So here's an overhead warmer and a CPAP. They're inexpensive, really rugged. They've treated 50,000 kids in Vietnam with this technology. But here's the problem: Every doctor in the world, every hospital administrator, has seen TV — curse those ""ER"" reruns! Turns out they all know what a medical device is supposed to look like. They want Buck Rogers, they don't want effective. It sounds crazy, it sounds dumb, but there are actually hospitals who would rather have no equipment than something that looks cheap and crummy. So again, if we want people to trust a device, it has to look trustworthy. So thinking about outcomes, it turns out appearances matter. We took all that information together. We tried, this time, to get it right. And here's what we developed. This is the Firefly phototherapy device, except this time, we didn't stop at the concept car. From the very beginning, we started by talking to manufacturers. Our goal is to make a state-of-the-art product that our partner MTTS can actually manufacture. Our goal is to study how they work, the resources they have access to, so that they can make this product. So that's the design for manufacture question. When we think about actual use, you'll notice that Firefly has a single bassinet. It only fits a single baby, and the idea here is it's obvious how you ought to use this device. If you try to put more than one kid in, you're stacking them on top of each other. (Laughter) So the idea here is you want to make it hard to use wrong. In other words, you want to make the right way to use it the easiest way to use it. Another example — again, silly Mom. Silly Mom thinks her baby looks cold, wants to put a blanket over the baby. That's why we have lights above and below the baby in Firefly, so if Mom does put a blanket over the baby, it's still receiving effective phototherapy from below. Last story here: I've got a friend in India who told me that you haven't really tested a piece of electronic technology for distribution in Asia, until you've trained a cockroach to climb in and pee on every single little component on the inside. (Laughter) You think it's funny. I had a laptop in the Peace Corps, and the screen had all these dead pixels on it. And one day I looked in — they were all dead ants that had gotten into my laptop and perished. Those poor ants. (Laughter) So with Firefly, what we did is — the problem is electronics get hot, and you have to put in vents or fans to keep them cool — in most products. We decided we can't put a ""Do not enter"" sign next to the vent. We actually got rid of all that stuff. So Firefly's totally sealed. These are the kinds of lessons — as awkward as it was to be a pretty goofy teenager, much worse to be a frustrated designer. So I was thinking, ""What I really want to do is change the world. I have to pay attention to manufacturing and distribution. I have to pay attention to how people are actually going to use a device. I actually have to pay attention. There's no excuse for failure. I have to think like an existentialist. I have to accept that there are no dumb users, only dumb products."" We have to ask ourselves hard questions. Are we designing for the world that we want? Are we designing for the world that we have? Are we designing for the world that's coming, whether we're ready or not? I got into this business designing products. I've since learned that if you really want to make a difference in the world, you have to design outcomes. And that's design that matters. Thank you. (Applause)"	我有一個能改變世界的好點子非常厲害的點子，一定會讓你不敢置信那是我可愛的寶寶重點來了，每個人都喜歡可愛的寶寶我是說，我也曾經是個可愛的寶寶這是剛出生沒幾天的我和我爸 在產品設計的世界裡漂亮的寶寶就像概念車一樣讓人目瞪口呆你一看見就會忍不住說：「噢，我的天！我願意立刻買下那台車！」那到底為什麼今年的新車款和去年的看起來幾乎一模一樣？ （笑聲） 從設計工作室到工廠中間到底出了什麼差錯？今天我想談的不是可愛的寶寶而是設計的尷尬青春期無知的十多歲青春還忙著搞清楚世界怎麼運轉 我就從我們為新生保健做過的一項設計講起問題來了全世界每年有四百萬個新生兒大多是在發展中國家裡活不過一歲生日甚至根本撐不到滿月但事實上，其中有一半，或大約一百八十萬名新生兒只要獲得足夠的保溫就能活下去關鍵就是出生後前三天，或者第一週 現在看到的是尼泊爾加德滿都的新生兒加護病房裹著毯子的這些寶寶都應該待在保溫箱裡也就是像這樣的東西這是由日本捐贈的保溫箱是我們在加德滿都的新生兒加護病房發現的這就是我們要的東西很可能是日本某醫院升級設備於是將舊的捐給尼泊爾但問題是，沒有相關技術人員和多餘零件這些東西很快就會變成垃圾 關於這問題，我們應該能夠做些什麼將寶寶保溫一個星期這又不是什麼太空任務於是我們開始行動我們和波士頓這裡首屈一指的一間醫療研究機構合作花了幾個月進行使用者研究試著以設計師的方式思考以人為本的設計想搞清楚大家究竟想要什麼我們用掉好幾千張便利貼做了數十個模型才終於完成這個這就是新嬰兒保溫箱裡頭包含了許多巧思我們覺得好極了 這裡的重點就是，我們不想做一台概念車我們想把一個美好的想法和一個實用的東西結合起來我們認為這項設計能啟發製造商和其他有影響力的人以這為範例繼續努力 但壞消息來了真正進過這個新嬰兒保溫箱的寶寶只有《時代雜誌》拍照時用的這個嬰兒我們獲得非常多的認可我們希望設計能讓大家看見也的確贏得了許多獎項但感覺卻好比獲頒爛獎品我們希望創造的是能讓世界更美好的東西但這個寶寶在裡面的時間太短根本連躺都沒躺暖 所以事實就是，想要帶來啟發的這項設計並不能......我想我要說的是，對我們而言，對於我想做的事這項設計要不是效果太慢，就是根本沒用，完全沒有效果我想要為成果設計不想只是做出漂亮的東西我想讓這世界更美好所以我們設計這款新保溫箱時特別注意了會使用這樣產品的人像是窮困的家庭、鄉下的醫生工作過度的護士，甚至是維修技師我們以為各方面都考量了一切都萬無一失 結果原來還有一大群人和一項產品的成敗脫不了關係製造、資金、銷售和管理合宜衛生科技組織的麥可佛里就說，你得搞清楚誰會「選擇、使用和購買」像這樣的產品我必須要問一個問題創投總是會問：「先生，你是做什麼的？客戶是誰？」 誰是我們的客戶？這裡有個例子這是孟加拉某醫院院長在醫院外照的相但院內的器材設備都不是他買的採購決定是國家衛生部在進行或是由國外捐贈單位決定然後器材就這麼出現了同樣地，這是個跨國醫療器材製造商他們也必須往魚多的地方撒網而在新興市場裡，也就是所謂魚多的地方是這些國家正在崛起的中產階級及心臟疾病和不孕症等文明病因此，為成果設計從某方面來看就是為製造商和銷售設計好吧，那是很重要的一課 接著，我們試著將這個教訓應用到下個計畫裡所以我們從找尋製造商開始越南有個「醫療技術轉移與服務組織」專為東南亞地區生產新生兒照護設備我們的另一個夥伴是「東方遇見西方基金會」這個美國基金會將技術教給那個地區貧困的醫院 於是我們一開始就問他們：「你們想要什麼？」「有什麼問題是你們想解決的？」他們回答：「那就從新生兒黃疸著手吧。」這就是另一個讓世界傷腦筋的問題全球有三分之二的新生兒有黃疸這些嬰兒中，大約每十個就有一個會因缺乏治療而使症狀惡化最後導致終生殘障甚至死亡有一個方法可以治療黃疸就是換血治療你可以想像，那必定相當昂貴，而且有一定的風險 但還有一個方法完全仰賴技術，非常的複雜，想到就讓人頭痛那就是用藍色的光照寶寶以明亮的藍光盡可能地照遍寶寶的肌膚這能有多難？於是我到了麻省理工學院好的，我們會想辦法（笑聲） 這裡有個例子，這是一座光照療法的直立式燈架是為美國的醫院設計的使用的方式就是像這樣照射嬰兒全身，每個嬰兒用一座燈架把這搬出美國的醫院送到亞洲一個擁擠的醫療機構燈架的使用就變成這樣光照療法的關鍵就是光照強度深藍色方塊就是光照療法有效的區域這種使用方式下的效果則是這樣靠邊的孩子並沒有受到有效的治療但若沒受過訓練，也沒有測光器你怎麼會知道？ 我們還看到其他這類的問題這是一個新生兒加護病房媽媽可以進來探視寶寶不要忘了，媽媽可能剛剖腹完那已經有點糟了她們看著自己的孩子光溜溜地躺在藍光下脆弱無助的樣子不少媽媽會替寶寶蓋上毯子從光照療法的角度來看，這可能不是最佳示範甚至聽起來還有點蠢但我們瞭解到沒有愚蠢的使用者，這真的是我們學到的只有愚蠢的產品 我們必須以存在主義的方式思考重要的不是我們怎麼構圖而是實際上我們畫了什麼是產品的使用－－為實際使用而設計大家實際上會怎麼利用這項產品？ 同樣地，我們的合作夥伴「醫療技術轉移與服務組織」曾為治療新生兒疾病開發出很棒的技術這是一個立式保溫台和正壓呼吸器不貴而且非常耐用這項技術在越南治療了五萬個孩童但有個問題世界上每個醫生，每間醫院的管理人都看過電視，咒罵《急診室的春天》又在重播他們都曉得醫療器材該長怎麼樣他們想要酷炫設備，不要實用這聽起來很誇張，很愚蠢但真的有醫院寧可不要設備也不想要看起來廉價又寒酸的器材所以，如果我們希望別人信任一樣器材那就得讓它看起來值得信賴 因此，考量成果之後顯然外觀也很重要於是我們整合所有資訊希望這次可以成功而這就是我們的成果「螢火蟲光照設備」這次我們不是在概念車的階段止步我們開始就先和製造商溝通我們的目標是做出最先進的產品而且是醫療技術轉移與服務組織能夠實際生產的所以我們去了解他們如何作業，以及他們所擁有的資源確保他們能夠生產這項產品 這就是為生產而設計所要思考的問題在考量實際利用時各位會注意到「螢火蟲」只有一個嬰兒床只能容納一個寶寶為的就是讓人一看就知道應該怎麼使用如果你想在裡頭放超過一個寶寶就只能一個個往上疊 （笑聲） 我們希望讓犯錯變得很難也就是說，我們希望正確的操作方式就是最簡單的使用方式還有一個例子：又是笨媽媽笨媽媽覺得孩子看起來很冷，所以想替寶寶蓋上毯子因此我們將「螢火蟲」設計成上下都有光照這麼一來，就算媽媽替寶寶蓋上毯子下方的光照仍會提供有效的治療 最後一個故事我在印度的一個朋友告訴我你要全面測試一項電子裝置的話尤其是要在亞洲流通的產品你就得訓練一隻蟑螂爬進去然後在裡面每個零件上撒尿 （笑聲） 你覺得這很好笑我在美國「和平工作團」有台筆電螢幕上滿是小黑點有天我把它拆開，才發現裡面全是死螞蟻牠們跑進我的筆電裡然後死去可憐的螞蟻！所以我們對「螢火蟲」做了一件事電子產品的問題就是會發熱所以你必須加裝通氣孔或風扇散熱多數產品都是我們認為，要在通氣孔旁寫上「禁止進入」是不可能的所以乾脆就捨棄散熱裝置因此「螢火蟲」是完全密封的 這就是我們學到的教訓當個傻氣的青少年儘管難堪也比當個挫敗的設計師好我過去一直在想，自己真正想做的就是改變世界那麼我必須注意製造和銷售必須注意大家會怎麼使用一項產品我必須確實地注意這些真的，失敗是沒有藉口的 我必須像個存在主義者般思考必須接受沒有愚蠢的使用者只有愚蠢的產品我們必須問自己一些艱難的問題我們是為我們想要的世界設計嗎？我們是為我們擁有的世界設計嗎？我們是為即將到來的世界設計嗎？不管我們準備好了沒 我進到這個行業來設計產品學到了如果你真的想要改變世界就得為成果而設計那才是有用的設計 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
