Talk	en	zh-tw
toby_shapshak_you_don_t_need_an_app_for_that	"Let me start by asking you a question, just with a show of hands: Who has an iPhone? Who has an Android phone? Who has a Blackberry? Who will admit in public to having a Blackberry? (Laughter) And let me guess, how many of you, when you arrived here, like me, went and bought a pay-as-you-go SIM card? Yeah? I'll bet you didn't even know you're using African technology. Pay-as-you-go was a technology, or an idea, pioneered in Africa by a company called Vodacom a good 15 years ago, and now, like franchising, pay-as-you-go is one of the most dominant forces of economic activity in the world. So I'm going to talk about innovation in Africa, which I think is the purest form, innovation out of necessity. But first, I'm going to ask you some other questions. You don't have to put your hands up. These are rhetorical. Why did Nikola Tesla have to invent the alternating current that powers the lights in this building or the city that we're in? Why did Henry Ford have to invent the production line to produce these Fords that came in anything as long as they were black? And why did Eric Merrifield have to invent the dolos? Blank stares. That is what a dolos looks like, and in the background, you can see Robben Island. This is a small dolos, and Eric Merrifield is the most famous inventor you've never heard of. In 1963, a storm ripped up the harbor in a small South African town called East London, and while he was watching his kids playing with toys made from oxen bones called dolosse, he had the idea for this. It's a bit like a huge jumping jack, and they have used this in every harbor in the world as a breakwater. The global shipping economy would not be possible without African technology like this. So whenever you talk about Africa, you have to put up this picture of the world from space, and people go, ""Look, it's the Dark Continent."" Actually, it isn't. What it is is a map of innovation. And it's really easy to see where innovation's going on. All the places with lots of electricity, it isn't. (Laughter) (Applause) And the reason it isn't is because everybody's watching television or playing Angry Birds. (Laughter) (Applause) So where it's happening is in Africa. Now, this is real innovation, not the way people have expropriated the word to talk about launching new products. This is real innovation, and I define it as problem-solving. People are solving real problems in Africa. Why? Because we have to. Because we have real problems. And when we solve real problems for people, we solve them for the rest of the world at the same time. So in California, everybody's really excited about a little square of plastic that you plug into a phone and you can swipe your credit card, and people say, ""We've liberated the credit card from the point of sale terminal."" Fantastic. Why do you even need a credit card? In Africa, we've been doing that for years, and we've been doing it on phones like this. This is a picture I took at a place called Kitengela, about an hour south of Nairobi, and the thing that's so remarkable about the payment system that's been pioneered in Africa called M-Pesa is that it works on phones like this. It works on every single phone possible, because it uses SMS. You can pay bills with it,  you can buy your groceries, you can pay your kids' school fees, and I'm told you can even bribe customs officials. (Laughter) Something like 25 million dollars a day is transacted through M-Pesa. Forty percent of Kenya's GDP moves through M-Pesa using phones like this. And you think this is just a feature phone. Actually it's the smartphone of Africa. It's also a radio, and it's also a torch, and more than anything else, it has really superb battery life. Why? Because that's what we need. We have really severe energy problems in Africa. By the way, you can update Facebook and send Gmail from a phone like this. So we have found a way to use the available technology to send money via M-Pesa, which is a bit like a check system for the mobile age. I come from Johannesburg, which is a mining town. It's built on gold. This is a picture I Instagrammed earlier. And the difference today is that  the gold of today is mobile. If you think about the railroad system in North America and how that worked, first came the infrastructure, then came the industry around it, the brothels — it's a bit like the Internet today, right? — and everything else that worked with it: bars, saloons, etc. The gold of today is mobile, and mobile is the enabler that makes all of this possible. So what are some of the things that you can do with it? Well, this is by a guy called Bright Simons from Ghana, and what you do is you take medication, something that some people might spend their entire month's salary on, and you scratch off the code, and you send that to an SMS number, and it tells you if that is legitimate or if it's expired. Really simple, really effective, really life-saving. In Kenya, there's a service called iCow, which just sends you really important information about how to look after your dairy. The dairy business in Kenya is a $463 million business, and the difference between a subsistence farmer and an abundance farmer is only a couple of liters of milk a day. And if you can do that, you can rise out of poverty. Really simple, using a basic phone. If you don't have electricity, no problem! We'll just make it out of old bicycle parts using a windmill, as William Kamkwamba did. There's another great African that you've heard that's busy disrupting the automobile industry in the world. He's also finding a way to reinvent solar power and the electricity industry in North America, and if he's lucky, he'll get us to Mars, hopefully in my lifetime. He comes from Pretoria, the capital of [South Africa], about 50 kilometers from where I live. So back to Joburg, which is sometimes called Egoli, which means City of Gold. And not only is mobile the gold of today, I don't believe that the gold is under the ground. I believe we are the gold. Like you've heard the other economists say, we are at the point where China was when its boom years began, and that's where we're going. So, you hear the West talk about innovation at the edge. Well, of course it's happening at the edge, because in the middle, everybody's updating Facebook, or worse still, they're trying to understand Facebook's privacy settings. (Laughter) This is not that catchy catchphrase. This is innovation over the edge. So, people like to call Africa a mobile-first continent, but actually it's mobile-only, so while everybody else is doing all of those things, we're solving the world's problems. So there's only one thing left to say. [""You're welcome""] (Laughter) (Applause)"	讓我先開始問你們一個問題，舉手就可以，誰有iPhone?誰有安卓手機？誰有黑莓手機？誰會想要公開承認想有個黑莓手機啊？（笑聲） 讓我猜猜，你們中多少人，你們來這兒的時候，像我一樣，會去買充值Sim卡？啊？我想你們可能都不知道，你們用的是來自非洲的技術。充值是一項科技，或者說一個創意，由一個叫Vodacom的非洲公司最先開始的在15年前，現在，像特許經營，充值方法是在世界的經濟活動中最主要的動力。 我這裡要講的就是來自非洲的創新，我認為是最純粹的，建立在需要上的創新。但首先，我要問你們其他幾個問題。你們不需要舉手，這只是些設問。 為甚麼尼古拉．特斯拉要發明點亮燈泡的另一種電流？在這個大樓裡，或者說我們所在的這個城市裡？ 為甚麼亨利．·福特要發明生產線，生產這些福特車？黑色的福特車？ 為甚麼埃里克．麥瑞菲爾德要發明（防波堤護面用的）扭工字塊?一臉茫然。這就是扭工字塊的樣子，在背景畫面，你可以看到羅本島。這是一個小的扭工字塊，而埃里克．麥瑞菲爾德是你所沒聽過的最著名的發明家。在1963年，暴風雨拍打著港口，在南非一個叫東倫敦的小鎮，當他看著他的孩子們在玩牛骨頭做的叫扭工字塊的玩具，他就是從這裡得到了靈感。它有些像巨大的跳娃娃，現在他們廣泛用於世界上的每個港口用作防波堤。世界航運經濟離不開這樣的非洲科技。 一般你們在談論非洲時，你會從外層空間來的世界照片，然後人們說，“看，這是個黑暗的大陸！”實際上，它不是。這是一個發明創新的地圖。很容易看出來在有發明創新的地方，是那些燈亮的地方麼，不是。（笑聲）（掌聲）它不是創新的地方是因為每個人都在看電視或者玩憤怒的小鳥。（笑聲）（掌聲） 所以非洲才有發明創造。這是真的創新，不是人們徵用來的詞當談論推出新產品時。這是真正的創新，我把它定義為問題解決方案。在非洲人們在解決真正的問題。為甚麼？因為我們必須這樣。因為我們有真正的問題。當我們為人們解決真正的問題時，我們同時為全世界解決了問題。 在加州，每個人都為一個插進手機的小方塊而興奮你可以用手機刷卡購物，人們說，“我們從銷售終端解放了信用卡。”棒極了！為甚麼非得需要信用卡？在非洲，我們早就這樣做了，我們一直這樣用手機。這張圖片是我在一個叫基騰格拉的地方拍的，在奈洛比南面一小時車程的地方，有種支付系統非常了不起是非洲支付系統的先驅，叫M-Pesa它可以在這樣的手機上使用。它可以在幾乎每個手機上使用，因為它採用SMS系統。你可以用它付錢，賣雜貨，可以付學費，我告訴你，你甚至可以用它賄賂海關官員。（笑聲）一天大約有2千5百萬美金通過M-Pesa轉賬。肯亞GDP的4％的份額是用手機通過M-Pesa實現的。 你覺得這只是個功能性手機，實際上它是非洲的智慧型手機。它還是廣播，是照明器，以及更多的用途。它的電池壽命非常長。為甚麼？因為我們需要這樣，非洲有很嚴重的能源問題順便說一句，你可以用這樣的手機更新臉書、發送電郵。 我們已經發現一種可行的科技來通過M-Pesa來轉賬，有些像移動時代的支票付款系統。我來自約翰尼斯堡，一個採礦的城市，它建在金礦上。這是一張我以前放在Instagram上的照片，不同的是現在的金礦是移動通訊。如果你想想北美的鐵路系統以及它的運作，首先想到它是基礎設施，然後想到於它有關的行業，妓院甚麼的，有點像今天的網路，對吧？所有和它有關的酒吧、沙龍等等。現在的金礦是移動通訊，手機可以使這些成為可能， 所以你可以用它做一些事情。這是加納的一個叫布萊特·西門子的朋友，你在服用一種有些人要用整月工資才能買到的藥物。你刮出號碼，你用一個SMS號碼發送出去，你就會知道這藥是否合法，或者它有沒有過期。非常簡單、非常方便、可以挽救生命。在肯亞，有種服務叫iCow，你可以發送非常重要的資訊，關於你每天的日程。肯亞的日常管理業務，是個4億6千3百萬的業務。自給自足的農民和富農的區別就在於每天的兩升牛奶。如果你能做到，你就可以脫貧。非常簡單，使用最基本的手機。如果你沒有電，沒問題！我們可以拆掉舊自行車零件，用風車發電，就像威廉·堪姆萬巴那樣。另外一個你們聽過的了不起的非洲人，正忙著打亂世界汽車產業。他發現了重新用太陽能發電的方法，改變北美的電力行業。如果他幸運，他要帶我們去火星，希望是我在世的時候。他來自普利托里亞，南非的首都。離我住的地方有50公里。約翰内斯堡，有時被叫做Egoli，是黃金之都的意思。不僅移動通訊是現在的黃金，我不相信黃金一定來自地下，我相信我們就是黃金。你聽過其他經濟學家的話，我們到了一個中國開始大發展的時代，就是這樣的時代。 所以你聽西方人談論邊緣地區的創新，當然它會發生在邊緣地區！因為在其間，人們在忙著更新臉書，更糟的是，他們在試圖弄明白臉書的隱私設置。（笑聲）這不管是口號，在邊緣地區的創新， 人們喜歡把非洲說成是手機第一的大陸，實際上是只有手機的大陸。所以每個人都在做於手機有關的事，我們在解決世界的問題。所以我只剩一句話要說： “不客氣” （笑聲） （掌聲）
