Talk	en	zh-tw
toby_eccles_invest_in_social_change	I'm here today to talk about social change, not a new therapy or a new intervention or a new way of working with kids or something like that, but a new business model for social change, a new way of tackling the problem. In Britain, 63 percent of all men who come out of short sentences from prison re-offend again within a year. Now how many previous offenses do you think they have on average managed to commit? Forty-three. And how many previous times do you think they've been in prison? Seven. So we went to talk to the Ministry of Justice, and we said to the Ministry of Justice, what's it worth to you if fewer of these guys re-offend? It's got to be worth something, right? I mean, there's prison costs, there's police costs, there's court costs, all these things that you're spending money on to deal with these guys. What's it worth? Now, of course, we care about the social value. Social Finance, the organization I helped set up, cares about social stuff. But we wanted to make the economic case, because if we could make the economic case, then the value of doing this  would be completely compelling. And if we can agree on both a value and a way of measuring whether we've been successful at reducing that re-offending, then we can do something we think rather interesting. The idea is called the social impact bond. Now, the social impact bond is simply saying, if we can get the government to agree, that we can create a contract where they only pay if it worked. So that means that they can try out new stuff without the embarrassment of having to pay if it didn't work, which for still quite a lot of bits of government, that's a serious issue. Now, many of you may have noticed there's a problem at this point, and that is that it takes a long time to measure whether those outcomes have happened. So we have to raise some money. We use the contract to raise money from socially motivated investors. Socially motivated investors: there's an interesting idea, right? But actually, there's a lot of people who, if they're given the chance, would love to invest in something that does social good. And here's the opportunity. Do you want to also help government find whether there's a better economic model, not just leaving these guys to come out of prison and waiting till they re-offend and putting them back in again, but actually working with them to move to a different path to end up with fewer crimes and fewer victims? So we find some investors, and they pay for a set of services, and if those services are successful, then they improve outcomes, and with those measured reductions in re-offending, government saves money, and with those savings, they can pay outcomes. And the investors do not just get their money back, but they make a return. So in March 2010, we signed the first social impact bond with the Ministry of Justice around Peterborough Prison. It was to work with 3,000 offenders split into three cohorts of 1,000 each. Now, each of those cohorts would get measured over the two years that they were coming out of prison. They've got to have a year to commit their crimes, six months to get through the court system, and then they would be compared to a group taken from the police national computer, as similar as possible, and we would get paid providing we achieved a hurdle rate of 10-percent reduction, for every conviction event that didn't happen. So we get paid for crimes saved. Now if we achieved that 10-percent reduction across all three cohorts, then the investors get a seven and a half percent annualized return on their investment, and if we do better than that, they can get up to 13 percent annualized return on their investment, which is okay. So everyone wins here, right? The Ministry of Justice can try out a new program and they only pay if it works. Investors get two opportunities: for the first time, they can invest in social change. Also, they make a reasonable return, and they also know that first investors in these kinds of things, they're going to have to believers. They're going to have to care in the social program, but if this builds a track record over five or 10 years, then you can widen that investor community as more people have confidence in the product. The service providers, well, for the first time, they've got an opportunity to provide services and grow the evidence for what they're doing in a really constructive way and learn and demonstrate the value of what they're doing over five or six years, not just one or two as often happens at the moment. Society wins: fewer crimes, fewer victims. Now, the offenders, they also benefit. Instead of just coming out of the prison with 46 pounds in their pocket, half of them not knowing where they're spending their first night out of jail, actually, someone meets them in prison, learns about their issues, meets them at the gate, takes them through to somewhere to stay, connects them to benefits, connects them to employment, drug rehabilitation, mental health, whatever's needed. So let's think of another example: working with children in care. Social impact bonds work great for any area where there is at the moment very expensive provision that produces poor outcomes for people. So children in the state care tend to do very badly. Only 13 percent achieve a reasonable level of five GCSEs at 16, against 58 percent of the wider population. More troublingly, 27 percent of offenders in prison have spent some time in care. And even more worryingly, and this is a Home Office statistic, 70 percent of prostitutes have spent some time in care. The state is not a great parent. But there are great programs for adolescents who are on the edge of care, and 30 percent of kids going into care are adolescents. So we set up a program with Essex County Council to test out intensive family therapeutic support for those families with adolescents on the edge of the care system. Essex only pays in the event that it's saving them care costs. Investors have put in 3.1 million pounds. That program started last month. Others, around homelessness in London, around youth and employment and education elsewhere in the country. There are now 13 social impact bonds in Britain, and amazing levels of interest in this idea all over the world. So David Cameron's put 20 million pounds into a social outcomes fund to support this idea. Obama has suggested 300 million dollars in the U.S. budget for these kinds of ideas and structures to move it forward, and a lot of other countries are demonstrating considerable interest. So what's caused this excitement? Why is this so different for people? Well, the first piece, which we've talked about, is innovation. It enables testing of new ideas in a way that's less difficult for everybody. The second piece it brings is rigor. By working to outcomes, people really have to test and bring data into the situation that one's dealing with. So taking Peterborough as an example, we add case management across all of the different organizations that we're working with so they know what actually has been done with different prisoners, and at the same time they learn from the Ministry of Justice, and we learn, because we pushed for the data, what actually happens, whether they get re-arrested or not. And we learn and adapt the program accordingly. And this leads to the third element, which is new, and that's flexibility. Because normal contracting for things, when you're spending government money, you're spending our money, tax money, and the people who are in charge  of that are very aware of it so the temptation is to control exactly how you spend it. Now any entrepreneur in the room knows that version 1.0, the business plan, is not the one that generally works. So when you're trying to do something like this, you need the flexibility to adapt the program. And again, in Peterborough, we started off with a program, but we also collected data, and over the period of time, we nuanced and changed that program to add a range of other elements, so that the service adapts and we meet the needs of the long term as well as the short term: greater engagement from the prisoners, longer-term engagement as well. The last element is partnership. There is, at the moment, a stale  debate going on very often: state's better, public sector's better, private sector's better, social sector's better, for a lot of these programs. Actually, for creating social change, we need to bring in the expertise from all of those parties in order to make this work. And this creates a structure through which they can combine. So where does this leave us? This leaves us with a way that people can invest in social change. We've met thousands, possibly millions of people, who want the opportunity to invest in social change. We've met champions all over the public sector keen to make these kinds of differences. With this kind of model, we can help bring them together. Thank you. (Applause)	今天我要談談社會變革但並不是用什麼像新的醫療、干預、或是與孩子接觸的新方式之類的而是一個促進社會變革的嶄新企業模式一個對付社會問題的新方法 在英國，百分之六十三短期服刑的囚犯在釋放後一年內就會回鍋你想想看他們在這之前平均犯下多少案件?43件那你認為當中有幾位是累犯?七位 所以我們就跟司法行政部談跟司法行政部說若減少累犯對你有多少價值?總該要有價值的嘛! 對不對?我是說，會有監獄運行的費用出警的費用，法庭訴訟的費用等等。這一大堆你花的費用應付這方面的人事，花得有價值嗎? 理所當然的，我們重視社會價值所以我幫忙設立了一個機構叫作社會理財來應對社會問題但我們也希望可以從經濟方面著手若能行的話就可讓推動社會價值十分鼓舞人心若我們可以同意在價值觀和衡量是否真的有成功減少累犯方式等方面取得共識我們就可以去做更大膽有趣的事情 稱為社會效益債券簡單的說就是在取得政府的同意下我們可以簽署一張合約上面寫著只有在成功條件下，政府才付錢這樣政府就可以大膽去嘗試新鮮事物而無後顧之憂不用擔心在失敗的情況下還要做可能超過政府能承擔費用的窘境這是很嚴肅的議題 在座的各位可能也開始注意到一些問題了那就是這需要很長時間去衡量效果所以我們得去籌錢我們就使用這些契約去跟希望投資於社會的人籌錢積極想要投資於社會的人很有意思，對吧!但其實，有許多人一旦有機會他們十分願意投資對社會有益的事他們的機會來了您想要幫助政府找出是否有更好的經濟模式而不是等到這些從監獄出來的人重新再犯，然後再關回去而是實際上幫他們找出新的路途真的達到減少犯罪和受害人的目的 所以我們找到了一些投資者他們承擔了服務的費用若這些服務成功的話他們可以繼而改善結果藉由這些可衡量的方式減少累犯政府也可以在這方面省下一筆錢省下的這筆錢就可繼而花在結果上這樣一來，投資者不只得到原本投資的錢也得到了回報 所以在2010年的3月我們在彼得伯勒監獄首次跟司法行政部簽署了社會效益債券共有3000位罪犯分成3批，各批1000人每批都會用超過2年的時間衡量在他們出獄後他們有一年是否犯罪的衡量時間半年走司法程序的時間然後跟一組從警察局的數據挑來的做比較挑越相近的組別越好我們的報酬只有在成功達到降低犯罪率百分之十，才能獲得支付所以我們是在減少犯罪的情況下才能得到支付假設這三批罪犯都全面性減少百分之十我們的投資人就可以得到年利率7.5%的回報若我們做得比這個還要好投資人就可以獲得年利率13%的回報這樣也不錯 這樣一來，大家都是贏家了，對吧!司法行政部可以大膽嘗試新的方案只有在成功的條件下才支付費用投資人得到兩種機會首先，他們可以投資於社會變革並得到合理的回報他們也知道在這方面做為首批的投資人他們也必須相信這方法可行他們也必須去在乎社會方案若建立這記錄可長達五年或十年就可以因為越來越多人對此產品充滿信心進而擴展投資者的人數提供這些服務的人也頭一次有機會可以在提供服務之餘證明他們所做的工作是有貢獻意義的而且證明了他們的社會價值在未來五或六年而非一兩年的曇花一現社會也是個贏家: 罪犯降低，受害者也減少了再來就是對罪犯也是有益的他們得到釋放時除了口袋裡的46英鎊一半以上的罪犯根本都不知道他們出獄的第一晚住哪?其實，某人與他們在監獄裡見面了解他們深陷的情況在大門口與他們見面帶領他們到某處待一晚幫他們聯絡上救濟金，勞工局戒毒所，精神院等任何他們需要的東西 那我們在想想另一個範例:跟托育中心合作社會效益債券不管在哪一方面都很適合設備昂貴但對人類貢獻貧乏的地方小孩受到國家托育中心的照顧都不太好比起 58% 的人口只有 13% 在16歲時得到英國普通中等教育證書的第五級更糟的是，罪犯當中有27%待過托育中心令人更擔憂的是根據內政部的統計70%的娼妓都待過托育中心顯然國家托育中心並不是個很棒的父母但是我們有很棒的方案針對極需照顧青少年有30%進入托育中心的孩子都是青少年 所以我們和艾塞克斯郡議會簽署了一個方案提供加強家庭療法為那些將送去托育中心的青少年艾塞克斯郡議會只有在成功救了這些青少年的情況下才需做支付目前投資人已經投資了310萬英鎊這方案已在上個月開始執行了其他問題，像在倫敦無家可歸的人或是小孩或就業和教育問題在倫敦以外其它地區在英國目前已有13個社會效益債券而且全世界對這樣的想法也有濃厚的興趣。大衛卡梅倫已經在社會方面投資了2000萬英鎊。歐巴馬建議投資3憶美元的預算幫這類的想法和結構推一把，往前邁進還有其他許多的國家對這些表示深度興趣對這些表示深度興趣 究竟是什麼挑起這股興奮?為何異於別人的呢?首先，我們剛剛在談的就是創新它能夠較毫不費力的方式讓大家嘗試新的主意 其二，它為人們帶來精確的數據為了得到理想中的結果，人們就真的得去嘗試然後把數據帶到處理中的事件就拿彼得伯勒監獄做為一例我們與不同合作機構加入專案管理這樣它們才知道實際上有與哪些犯人做過什麼樣的處理他們第一時間跟司法行政部學到一些東西時我們也會同時學到因為我們要管理數據像真正發生了什麼事，他們是否有再犯等然後根據此數據做出因應之道 而這就帶領我們到第三點，新的領域而且充滿彈性就普遍的契約就是當你花政府的錢時你就是在花我們的錢 － 我們繳的稅負責這批錢的人十分了解這點所以要抗拒的誘點是控制你花費的方式在座的企業家都知道企業計劃書的第一個版本普通都沒有派上場所以當你想嘗試像這樣的計畫時你需要有彈性去修改計畫所以在彼得伯勒監獄開始此方案時我們也開始收集數據所以每過了一段時間我們就會為方案做一點修補－加入一些其它的元素讓我們的方案變得更好以便取得長期和短期的目標－與牢犯有更深的互動且還是長期的互動 最後一點就是合夥關係目前有個常吵得熱烘烘，停滯不前的辯論題不是辯論著這些方案由國家提供的較好就是辯論著由國營部門，私營企業或社會福利組織等較好坦白說，為了創造社會變革我們都需要所有部門的幫助才能達到目標在他們互相合作下創造出新的社會結構 這可為我們帶來什麼呢?這為我們帶來一種讓人們可以投資社會變革的方式我們遇到好幾千，可能好幾百萬的人都想要有機會去投資於社會變革我們在國營部門遇到出類拔萃的人他們熱誠地想為社會帶來不同有了這個模式我們就可以協助他們攜手 謝謝 (掌聲)
