Talk	en	zh-tw
todd_humphreys_how_to_fool_a_gps	"Something happened in the early morning hours of May 2nd, 2000, that had a profound effect on the way our society operates. Ironically, hardly anyone noticed at the time. The change was silent, imperceptible, unless you knew exactly what to look for. On that morning, U.S. President Bill Clinton ordered that a special switch be thrown in the orbiting satellites of the Global Positioning System. Instantaneously, every civilian GPS receiver around the globe went from errors the size of a football field to errors the size of a small room. It's hard to overstate the effect that this change in accuracy has had on us. Before this switch was thrown, we didn't have in-car navigation systems giving turn-by-turn directions, because back then, GPS couldn't tell you what block you were on, let alone what street. For geolocation, accuracy matters, and things have only improved over the last 10 years. With more base stations, more ground stations, better receivers and better algorithms, GPS can now not only tell you what street you are on, but what part of the street. This level of accuracy has unleashed a firestorm of innovation. In fact, many of you navigated here today with the help of your TomTom or your smartphone. Paper maps are becoming obsolete. But we now stand on the verge of another revolution in geolocation accuracy. What if I told you that the two-meter positioning that our current cell phones and our TomToms give us is pathetic compared to what we could be getting? For some time now, it's been known that if you pay attention to the carrier phase of the GPS signal, and if you have an Internet connection, then you can go from meter level to centimeter level, even millimeter-level positioning. So why don't we have this capability on our phones? Only, I believe, for a lack of imagination. Manufacturers haven't built this carrier phase technique into their cheap GPS chips because they're not sure what the general public would do with geolocation so accurate that you could pinpoint the wrinkles in the palm of your hand. But you and I and other innovators, we can see the potential in this next leap in accuracy. Imagine, for example, an augmented reality app that overlays a virtual world to millimeter-level precision on top of the physical world. I could build for you a structure up here in 3D, millimeter accurate, that only you could see, or my friends at home. So this level of positioning, this is what we're looking for, and I believe that, within the next few years, I predict, that this kind of hyper-precise, carrier phase-based positioning will become cheap and ubiquitous, and the consequences will be fantastic. The Holy Grail, of course, is the GPS dot. Do you remember the movie ""The Da Vinci Code?"" Here's Professor Langdon examining a GPS dot, which his accomplice tells him is a tracking device accurate within two feet anywhere on the globe, but we know that in the world of nonfiction, the GPS dot is impossible, right? For one thing, GPS doesn't work indoors, and for another, they don't make devices quite this small, especially when those devices have to relay their measurements back over a network. Well, these objections were perfectly reasonable a few years ago, but things have changed. There's been a strong trend toward miniaturization, better sensitivity, so much so that, a few years ago, a GPS tracking device looked like this clunky box to the left of the keys. Compare that with the device released just months ago that's now packaged into something the size of a key fob, and if you take a look at the state of the art for a complete GPS receiver, which is only a centimeter on a side and more sensitive than ever, you realize that the GPS dot will soon move from fiction to nonfiction. Imagine what we could do with a world full of GPS dots. It's not just that you'll never lose your wallet or your keys anymore, or your child when you're at Disneyland. You'll buy GPS dots in bulk, and you'll stick them on everything you own worth more than a few tens of dollars. I couldn't find my shoes one recent morning, and, as usual, had to ask my wife if she had seen them. But I shouldn't have to bother my wife with that kind of triviality. I should be able to ask my house where my shoes are. (Laughter) Those of you who have made the switch to Gmail, remember how refreshing it was to go from organizing all of your email to simply searching it. The GPS dot will do the same for our possessions. Now, of course, there is a flip side to the GPS dot. I was in my office some months back and got a telephone call. The woman on the other end of the line, we'll call her Carol, was panicked. Apparently, an ex-boyfriend of Carol's from California had found her in Texas and was following her around. So you might ask at this point why she's calling you. Well, so did I. But it turned out there was a technical twist to Carol's case. Every time her ex-boyfriend would show up, at the most improbable times and the most improbable locations, he was carrying an open laptop, and over time Carol realized that he had planted a GPS tracking device on her car, so she was calling me for help to disable it. ""Well, you should go to a good mechanic and have him look at your car,"" I said. ""I already have,"" she told me. ""He didn't see anything obvious, and he said he'd have to take the car apart piece by piece."" ""Well then, you'd better go to the police,"" I said. ""I already have,"" she replied. ""They're not sure this rises to the level of harassment, and they're not set up technically to find the device."" ""Okay, what about the FBI?"" ""I've talked to them too, and same story."" We then talked about her coming to my lab and us performing a radio sweep of her car, but I wasn't even sure that would work, given that some of these devices are configured to only transmit when they're inside safe zones or when the car is moving. So, there we were. Carol isn't the first, and certainly won't be the last, to find herself in this kind of fearsome environment, worrisome situation caused by GPS tracking. In fact, as I looked into her case, I discovered to my surprise that it's not clearly illegal for you or me to put a tracking device on someone else's car. The Supreme Court ruled last month that a policeman has to get a warrant if he wants to do prolonged tracking, but the law isn't clear about civilians doing this to one another, so it's not just Big Brother we have to worry about, but Big Neighbor. (Laughter) There is one alternative that Carol could have taken, very effective. It's called the Wave Bubble. It's an open-source GPS jammer, developed by Limor Fried, a graduate student at MIT, and Limor calls it ""a tool for reclaiming our personal space."" With a flip of the switch you create a bubble around you within which GPS signals can't reside. They get drowned out by the bubble. And Limor designed this, in part, because, like Carol, she felt threatened by GPS tracking. Then she posted her design to the web, and if you don't have time to build your own, you can buy one. Chinese manufacturers now sell thousands of nearly identical devices on the Internet. So you might be thinking, the Wave Bubble sounds great. I should have one. Might come in handy if somebody ever puts a tracking device on my car. But you should be aware that its use is very much illegal in the United States. And why is that? Well, because it's not a bubble at all. Its jamming signals don't stop at the edge of your personal space or at the edge of your car. They go on to jam innocent GPS receivers for miles around you. (Laughter) Now, if you're Carol or Limor, or someone who feels threatened by GPS tracking, it might not feel wrong to turn on a Wave Bubble, but in fact, the results can be disastrous. Imagine, for example, you're the captain of a cruise ship trying to make your way through a thick fog and some passenger in the back turns on a Wave Bubble. All of a sudden your GPS readout goes blank, and now it's just you and the fog and whatever you can pull off the radar system if you remember how to work it. They — in fact, they don't update or upkeep lighthouses anymore, and LORAN, the only backup to GPS, was discontinued last year. Our modern society has a special relationship with GPS. We're almost blindly reliant on it. It's built deeply into our systems and infrastructure. Some call it ""the invisible utility."" So, turning on a Wave Bubble might not just cause inconvenience. It might be deadly. But as it turns out, for purposes of protecting your privacy at the expense of general GPS reliability, there's something even more potent and more subversive than a Wave Bubble, and that is a GPS spoofer. The idea behind the GPS spoofer is simple. Instead of jamming the GPS signals, you fake them. You imitate them, and if you do it right, the device you're attacking doesn't even know it's being spoofed. So let me show you how this works. In any GPS receiver, there's a peak inside that corresponds to the authentic signals. These three red dots represent the tracking points that try to keep themselves centered on that peak. But if you send in a fake GPS signal, another peak pops up, and if you can get these two peaks perfectly aligned, the tracking points can't tell the difference, and they get hijacked by the stronger counterfeit signal, with the authentic peak getting forced off. At this point, the game is over. The fake signals now completely control this GPS receiver. So is this really possible? Can someone really manipulate the timing and positioning of a GPS receiver just like that, with a spoofer? Well, the short answer is yes. The key is that civil GPS signals are completely open. They have no encryption. They have no authentication. They're wide open, vulnerable to a kind of spoofing attack. Even so, up until very recently, nobody worried about GPS spoofers. People figured that it would be too complex or too expensive for some hacker to build one. But I, and a friend of mine from graduate school, we didn't see it that way. We knew it wasn't going to be so hard, and we wanted to be the first to build one so we could get out in front of the problem and help protect against GPS spoofing. I remember vividly the week it all came together. We built it at my home, which means that I got a little extra help from my three-year-old son Ramon. Here's Ramon — (Laughter) — looking for a little attention from Dad that week. At first, the spoofer was just a jumble of cables and computers, though we eventually got it packaged into a small box. Now, the Dr. Frankenstein moment, when the spoofer finally came alive and I glimpsed its awful potential, came late one night when I tested the spoofer against my iPhone. Let me show you some actual footage from that very first experiment. I had come to completely trust this little blue dot and its reassuring blue halo. They seemed to speak to me. They'd say, ""Here you are. Here you are."" (Laughter) And ""you can trust us."" So something felt very wrong about the world. It was a sense, almost, of betrayal, when this little blue dot started at my house, and went running off toward the north leaving me behind. I wasn't moving. What I then saw in this little moving blue dot was the potential for chaos. I saw airplanes and ships veering off course, with the captain learning only too late that something was wrong. I saw the GPS-derived timing of the New York Stock Exchange being manipulated by hackers. You can scarcely imagine the kind of havoc you could cause if you knew what you were doing with a GPS spoofer. There is, though, one redeeming feature of the GPS spoofer. It's the ultimate weapon against an invasion of GPS dots. Imagine, for example, you're being tracked. Well, you can play the tracker for a fool, pretending to be at work when you're really on vacation. Or, if you're Carol, you could lure your ex-boyfriend into some empty parking lot where the police are waiting for him. So I'm fascinated by this conflict, a looming conflict, between privacy on the one hand and the need for a clean radio spectrum on the other. We simply cannot tolerate GPS jammers and spoofers, and yet, given the lack of effective legal means for protecting our privacy from the GPS dot, can you really blame people for wanting to turn them on, for wanting to use them? I hold out hope that we'll be able to reconcile this conflict with some sort of, some yet uninvented technology. But meanwhile, grab some popcorn, because things are going to get interesting. Within the next few years, many of you will be the proud owner of a GPS dot. Maybe you'll have a whole bag full of them. You'll never lose track of your things again. The GPS dot will fundamentally reorder your life. But will you be able to resist the temptation to track your fellow man? Or will you be able to resist the temptation to turn on a GPS spoofer or a Wave Bubble to protect your own privacy? So, as usual, what we see just beyond the horizon is full of promise and peril. It'll be fascinating to see how this all turns out. Thanks. (Applause)"	2000年5月2號的早晨發生了一件對我們社會有深遠影響的事件諷刺的是, 當時幾乎沒有人察覺變化發生得無聲無息, 難以察覺除非你知道該從何找起那天早上柯林頓總統下令將一特殊開關裝進全球定位系統的衛星轉眼間, 地球上所有的GPS導航器定位誤差值都從一個足球場大小縮小為一間房間 這種精準度對我們的影響不言自明在這之前, 我們根本沒有能夠準確告知我們該在哪裡轉彎的行車導航系統當時的GPS連我們在哪個街區都無法精準定位更何況是在哪條街上 對於地理定位科技來說精準度至關重要不過一直到近十年才有所進展隨著基地台、地面站接收器及演算能力在質、量上的不斷突破GPS現在不但能告訴我們在哪條街上甚至是街上的哪一段 這種程度的精準度觸發了一連串改變及創新在座各位很多今天應該就是靠著TomTom衛星導航或是智慧型手機來到這裡的紙本地圖逐漸遭到淘汰 不過我們也同時面臨另一個地理定位科技精準度革新的轉捩點假如我說, 目前手機和TomTom衛星導航提供的定位功能就算可以把誤差減到兩公尺內和未來定位科技一比卻不過雕蟲小技你會怎麼說?這早已不是新聞如果你仔細注意GPS的載波相位而且剛好有網路時精準度便可從以公尺為誤差單位縮小至以公分, 甚至毫米為單位 那我們的手機為何還不具備這樣的功能呢?在我看來, 主要是缺乏想像力製造商尚未將載波相位的技術應用到那些便宜的GPS晶片上因為他們不確定當人們面對精準到足以標出手上皺紋的地理位置定位時會作何反應不過, 你、我以及其他創新發明家我們看得見這種精準定位的潛力想像有一個擴增實境的應用軟體能以毫米為誤差單位的準確度將一個虛擬世界重疊到物質世界之上我可以就在這裡建造一個誤差範圍在幾毫米之內的3D建築物而且只有你或者是在我家的朋友看得見 這種程度的定位, 才是我們要的我預測在幾年之內這種極端精準, 以載波相位為基礎的定位模式會變得相當便宜且隨處可見帶來的影響也會令人眼睛為之一亮 最終目標, 不用說是GPS進化成圓點般的大小還記得電影「達文西密碼」嗎?這是蘭登教授在檢查GPS「豆」同伴告訴他, 這顆豆, 是個追蹤裝置誤差在兩呎內, 範圍涵蓋世界各個角落不過在現實世界我們知道這並不可能, 對吧?一方面, GPS在室內會失效另一方面, 裝置還沒有做得那麼小尤其這項裝置還必須能夠與網絡重複確認計算過程 嗯, 這些駁斥在前幾年非常合理不過情況已大不相同現在的發展趨勢已明顯轉向更迷你、更敏銳幾年前的GPS追蹤裝置就像這串鑰匙左邊沉重的黑盒子相較之下, 前幾年出版的只有鑰匙圈大小最先進的型式更只有一公分而且前所未有的敏銳慢慢地你會發現GPS「豆」不再遙不可及 若大量普及使用GPS「豆」世界會是什麼樣子?你不只不會再弄丟皮夾或鑰匙或是把小孩丟在迪士尼樂園你可以只花幾十塊就買到一大堆GPS「豆」然後貼在所有東西上 前幾天早上, 我找不到鞋子一如往常, 我還得問我老婆有沒有看到它們但我實在不該拿這種芝麻蒜皮的小事叨擾她我應該要問房子我的鞋子在哪(笑聲) 那些轉而使用Gmail的人應該記得過去我們得整理電子郵件現在只需點選搜尋功能, 就能輕易找到多麼令人耳目一新GPS「豆」對我們的物品有異曲同工之妙的影響 當然, GPS「豆」也有缺點幾個月前我在辦公室接到一通電話在電話上的是卡蘿她很慌張看起來, 卡蘿在加州的前男友在德州找到了卡蘿, 並不斷尾隨她現在, 你可能在想, 那她打給你幹嘛?嗯, 我當下也在想這個問題結果發現在卡蘿的事件中, GPS遭到不當利用每次當她前男友在最不該出現的時間出現在不該出現的地方時他總是帶著筆記型電腦一陣子後卡蘿意識到前男友在她車上植入了GPS追蹤裝置於是她打電話請我幫她解除 我說: 「嗯, 那你應該是去找個好技工請他幫你看看吧!」 「我去找過了。」她答道「他沒發現什麼明顯異狀,說要把車子拆開才知道。」 「那你最好去找警察。」我又建議道 「我去找過了。」她回答「他們不敢肯定這構成了騷擾罪他們也沒有偵測這種裝置的技術。」 「好吧, 那 FBI 呢?」 「我和他們談過了。一樣的答案。」 我們最後決定請她來我的實驗室用無線電掃描她的車不過我實在不確定這麼做有沒有用因為這些裝置可能被設置成進入安全區域或開始行駛後才開始傳送訊號 這是活生生的例子卡蘿不是第一個, 也不會是最後一個飽受GPS追蹤所造成的恐懼、擔憂折磨的人 事實上, 當深入觀察這起事件後我很驚訝地發現在別人車上裝設追蹤裝置並未明顯踰越法律上個月, 最高法院裁定警方必須取得搜查令使得執行長期追蹤但法令並未明確規範平民此種舉動的合法性看來我們不只需要防範「老大哥」的監視連鄰居也得留心防範（笑聲） 其實卡蘿還有另一種有效的解決方法叫做「波防護罩」它是個公開源代碼的GPS干擾器發明者是一位麻省理工學院畢業生: 勒茉•法莉德她以「重拾私人空間的工具」來形容它只要打開開關, 就可以形成一道GPS訊號無法穿透的防護圈訊號被掩蓋, 消失得無影無蹤勒茉有此發明, 一部份也是因為跟卡蘿一樣, 她感受到GPS追蹤的威脅接著, 她將此項發明發佈到網站上如果你沒時間自己做一個你可以花錢買一個中國製造商現在在網路上販售上千個幾乎一模一樣的裝置 你現在可能在想, 「這個防護罩聽起來蠻棒的我應該去弄一個要是有人對我車子動手腳, 就派得上用場。」不過, 你必須知道在美國使用它是非法的為什麼?嗯, 因為它其實並不是一個圈圈它的干擾訊號會不斷延伸超出你的個人空間或是汽車的範圍干擾訊號會影響到你周遭數英里內其他無辜的GPS用戶 (笑聲) 如果現在你是卡蘿或勒茉或是備受GPS追蹤威脅的人啟動「波防護罩」感覺沒什麼不對但實際上則可能造成災難性的後果想像一下, 如果你是郵輪船長正試圖在濃霧中找尋正確方向結果船尾有位乘客啟動了「波防護罩」儀錶板上的GPS裝置瞬間一片空白接著就只能靠你自己還有雷達系統如果你記得怎麼使用的話現在他們不再升級或維修燈塔唯一的備用品遠距離導航系統也在去年步入歷史 現代的人類社會與GPS有特殊的連結我們幾乎是盲目地依賴它它已深深融入我們的系統及基礎建設有些人稱它為「隱形公物」因此, 啟動「波防護罩」造成的不只是不便它可能相當致命 不過如果是為了保護個人隱私而須犧牲大眾對GPS的依賴的話還有另一項相當有效效果大過「波防護罩」的東西「GPS混淆器」 這項點子的構想相當簡單不同於干擾GPS我們實際上製造一個假訊號模仿GPS發出的訊號如果操作正確的話對方甚至不會知道被騙了 讓我示範一下每台GPS接收裝置裡都有一個波峰與正確的訊號相對應這三個紅點是追蹤點固定圍繞在波峰上但如果你發送一個假GPS訊號就會出現另一個波峰而如果你將兩個波峰完整重疊追蹤點便無從分辨兩者轉而誤認訊號較強的假波峰為真然後放棄追蹤真正的波峰勝負揭曉這個冒牌貨訊號完全將GPS接收裝置玩弄於股掌間 所以, 這真的可行嗎?真的有人能像那樣操控GPS的時間和位置定位單靠一台混淆GPS的裝置?簡單來說, 沒錯關鍵在於民用GPS訊號是完全開放的沒有加密、不需認證完全開放, 暴露於混淆攻擊的風險中即便如此, 在此之前沒有人對「GPS混淆器」有何顧慮人們普遍認為對駭客們來說製作一個混淆裝置過於複雜且所費不貲 不過我和一個研究所的朋友並不這麼想我們知道這並不難我們想要當第一個製作出成品的人以便面對、處理這個問題也保護GPS免受混淆我對那個禮拜的印象很深刻我們在我家開始著手製作我三歲的兒子瑞蒙也幫了點小忙這是瑞蒙 (笑聲)那個禮拜很努力試圖想引起老爸的注意一開始, 混淆器只是雜亂的電纜和電腦不過我們最終把它濃縮在一個小盒子裡 最可怕的時刻是當混淆器終於開始運作而在某個晚上我用 iPhone 做了實驗後發現它潛在的破壞力時讓我放一段在我第一次實驗中實際操作的影片我已經完全信賴這個小藍點這個小藍點看起來相當可信它們好像在跟我說「你在這裡, 你在這裡。」 (笑聲)「你可以相信我們。」整個世界感覺出了差錯感覺幾乎像是一種背叛當這個小藍點從我家開始一路往北方移動把我留在後頭時, 我根本動也沒動在這個移動的小藍點身上我看見了它造成破壞的潛力我看見了飛機和船隻偏離航道而當機長和船長發現時已經為時已晚我看見了以GPS為基礎計時的紐約股票交易慘遭駭客操弄若不了解你拿著「GPS混淆器」在做什麼你幾乎無法想像它可能造成的災難 不過「GPS混淆器」還是有值得讚許的地方它是GPS「豆」的剋星想像如果你被跟蹤了你可以完全擺跟蹤者一道讓他以為你在上班, 但實際上你在放假或者如果你是卡蘿你就可以引誘前男友到一個警察埋伏好的空曠停車場 我深深地為這個衝突, 這個隱約的矛盾著迷一方面是個人隱私一方面是維持無線電頻道的暢通我們沒有辦法忍受擾亂和混淆GPS訊號的人但在沒有法律保障個人隱私不受GPS跟蹤的侵擾之下能怪那些為保護自己而使用那些科技的人嗎? 我希望我們能以某種尚未開發的科技來達成這項矛盾的平衡點但同時, 準備好爆米花因為事情將越來越有趣 幾年之內你們之中很多人將成為GPS「豆」的使用者甚至可能有一大包GPS「豆」你再也不會找不到東西它會完全顛覆你的生活不過你有辦法拒絕追蹤男友行跡的誘惑嗎?你有辦法忍住打開干擾器或混淆器以保護隱私的衝動嗎 一如往常, 我們同時面對著希望和危機靜觀接下來的發展將會非常有趣 謝謝 (掌聲)
