Talk	en	zh-tw
tom_thum_the_orchestra_in_my_mouth	"My name is Tom, and I've come here today to come clean about what I do for money. Basically, I use my mouth in strange ways in exchange for cash. (Laughter) I usually do this kind of thing in seedy downtown bars and on street corners, so this mightn't be the most appropriate setting, but I'd like to give you guys a bit of a demonstration about what I do. (Beatboxing) And now, for my next number, I'd like to return to the classics. (Applause) We're going to take it back, way back, back into time. (Beatboxing: ""Billie Jean"") ♫ Billie Jean is not my lover ♫ ♫ She's just a girl who claims that I am the one ♫ ♫ But the kid is not my son ♫ (Applause) All right. Wassup. Thank you very much, TEDx. If you guys haven't figured it out already, my name's Tom Thum, and I'm a beatboxer, which means all the sounds that you just heard were made entirely using just my voice, and the only thing was my voice. And I can assure you there are absolutely no effects on this microphone whatsoever. And I'm very, very stoked — (Applause) You guys are just applauding for everything. It's great. Look at this, Mom! I made it! I'm very, very stoked to be here today, representing my kinfolk and all those that haven't managed to make a career out of an innate ability for inhuman noisemaking. Because it is a bit of a niche market, and there's not much work going on, especially where I'm from. You know, I'm from Brisbane, which is a great city to live in. Yeah! All right! Most of Brisbane's here. That's good. (Laughter) You know, I'm from Brizzy, which is a great city to live in, but let's be honest — it's not exactly the cultural hub of the Southern Hemisphere. So I do a lot of my work outside Brisbane and outside Australia, and so the pursuit of this crazy passion of mine has enabled me to see so many amazing places in the world. So I'd like to share with you, if I may, my experiences. So ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you on a journey throughout the continents and throughout sound itself. We start our journey in the central deserts. (Didgeridoo) (Airplane) India. (Beatboxing) (Sitar) China. (Guzheng) (Beatboxing) Germany. (Beatboxing) Party, party, yeah. (Laughter) And before we reach our final destination, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some technology that I brought all the way from the thriving metropolis of Brisbane. These things in front of me here are called Kaoss Pads, and they allow me to do a whole lot of different things with my voice. For example, the one on the left here allows me to add a little bit of reverb to my sound, which gives me that — (Trumpet) — flavor. (Laughter) And the other ones here, I can use them in unison to mimic the effect of a drum machine or something like that. I can sample in my own sounds and I can play it back just by hitting the pads here. (Noises) TEDx. (Music) (Applause) I got way too much time on my hands. And last but not least, the one on my right here allows me to loop loop loop loop loop loop loop loop my voice. So with all that in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you on a journey to a completely separate part of Earth as I transform the Sydney Opera House into a smoky downtown jazz bar. All right boys, take it away. (Music) Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to a very special friend of mine, one of the greatest double bassists I know. Mr. Smokey Jefferson, let's take it for a walk. Come on, baby. (Music) All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to the star of the show, one of the greatest jazz legends of our time. Music lovers and jazz lovers alike, please give a warm hand of applause for the one and only Mr. Peeping Tom. Take it away. (Music) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我叫湯姆今天來這裡是要坦白我賺錢的方法基本上，我以一種獨特的方式來靠嘴賺錢（笑聲）我通常都在破舊的市中心酒吧或是街角做這類的事情雖然這裡不是最適合的地方不過我可以示範一下我用嘴巴來做什麼 （口技聲） 下一首歌要帶大家回到永遠的經典 （掌聲）現在我們即將回到一直回到回到過去（口技：麥可傑克森《比利．珍》(Billie Jean)） ♫ 比利．珍不是我的愛人 ♫ ♫ 她只是個女孩，宣稱我是她的唯一 ♫ ♫ 但那小孩真的不是我的兒子 ♫ （掌聲）好 怎麼樣 非常謝謝 TEDx 如果大家還是一頭霧水我叫湯姆桑 (Tom Thum)，是個口技員也就是說，大家剛剛聽到的全部都是我的聲音單純是我發出的聲音而我可以跟大家保證這支麥克風還是其它東西絕對沒有什麼特殊效果 我非常非常興奮 （掌聲）你們聽到什麼都拍手，不錯媽，妳看看，我做到了！ 今天真的很興奮能夠在這邊表演，讓我的親戚還有那些還沒打算要利用非人聲的天分來當工作的人看一看因為這是一個利基市場還沒有太多這類的工作特別是在我出生的地方就是布里斯本是一個很適合居住的城市耶！很好，這裡大部分是布里斯本人，太棒了！（笑聲）所以我來自布里斯本這樣一個很棒的城市但是老實說吧那裡並不是南半球主要的文化重鎮所以我大多不在布里斯本工作也不在澳洲所以追求自我熱情的過程中讓我有機會能夠去世界上很多很棒的地方所以可以的話，我想跟大家分享我的經歷各位先生女士讓我帶大家啟程穿越各地開始這趟聲音之旅 讓我們從中部沙漠出發 （迪吉里杜管聲） （飛機引擎聲） 接著來到印度 （口技聲） （西塔琴聲） 來到中國 （古箏聲） （口技聲） 到了德國 （口技聲） 派對，派對，耶！ （笑聲） 在到達目的地之前各位先生女士我要跟大家分享一些器材是我遠從布里斯本繁榮的地方帶來的我前面這些器材叫做效果器可以讓我用來發出很多不同的聲音比如說，左邊這台可以用來讓我的聲音產生回響這讓我能夠發出（喇叭聲）來增添一點味道（笑聲）另外一台我可以用來和聲模仿鼓的聲音或是類似的聲音我可以錄下我的聲音，然後再播出來只要按下這些鍵盤（聲音）TEDx （音樂聲） （掌聲） 我花太多時間在手上了 最後一個也很重要的器材是右手邊這台，可以不斷的循環再循環我的聲音 所以記住這些聲音之後，各位先生女士跟著我一起啟程離開地球表面從雪梨歌劇院到煙霧瀰漫的爵士酒吧準備好了嗎，表演開始！ （音樂聲）各位先生女士，跟大家介紹一下我這位特別的朋友我認識最偉大的低音大提琴家煙燻傑佛遜 (Smokey Jefferson) 先生一起漫步，來吧！寶貝！ （音樂聲） 好，各位先生女士跟大家介紹這位大明星當代最偉大的爵士傳奇喜歡音樂或爵士樂的朋友請掌聲鼓勵一起來歡迎偷窺狂 (Peeping Tom) 先生帶來的表演 （音樂聲） （掌聲） 謝謝，謝謝大家 （掌聲）
