Talk	en	zh-tw
tristram_stuart_the_global_food_waste_scandal	"The job of uncovering the global food waste scandal started for me when I was 15 years old. I bought some pigs. I was living in Sussex. And I started to feed them in the most traditional and environmentally friendly way. I went to my school kitchen, and I said, ""Give me the scraps that my school friends have turned their noses up at."" I went to the local baker and took their stale bread. I went to the local greengrocer, and I went to a farmer who was throwing away potatoes because they were the wrong shape or size for supermarkets. This was great. My pigs turned that food waste into delicious pork. I sold that pork to my school friends' parents, and I made a good pocket money addition to my teenage allowance. But I noticed that most of the food that I was giving my pigs was in fact fit for human consumption, and that I was only scratching the surface, and that right the way up the food supply chain, in supermarkets, greengrocers, bakers, in our homes, in factories and farms, we were hemorrhaging out food. Supermarkets didn't even want to talk to me about how much food they were wasting. I'd been round the back. I'd seen bins full of food being locked and then trucked off to landfill sites, and I thought, surely there is something more sensible to do with food than waste it. One morning, when I was feeding my pigs, I noticed a particularly tasty-looking sun-dried tomato loaf that used to crop up from time to time. I grabbed hold of it, sat down, and ate my breakfast with my pigs. (Laughter) That was the first act of what I later learned to call freeganism, really an exhibition of the injustice of food waste, and the provision of the solution to food waste, which is simply to sit down and eat food, rather than throwing it away. That became, as it were, a way of confronting large businesses in the business of wasting food, and exposing, most importantly, to the public, that when we're talking about food being thrown away, we're not talking about rotten stuff, we're not talking about stuff that's beyond the pale. We're talking about good, fresh food that is being wasted on a colossal scale. Eventually, I set about writing my book, really to demonstrate the extent of this problem on a global scale. What this shows is a nation-by-nation breakdown of the likely level of food waste in each country in the world. Unfortunately, empirical data, good, hard stats, don't exist, and therefore to prove my point, I first of all had to find some proxy way of uncovering how much food was being wasted. So I took the food supply of every single country and I compared it to what was actually likely to be being consumed in each country. That's based on diet intake surveys, it's based on levels of obesity, it's based on a range of factors that gives you an approximate guess as to how much food is actually going into people's mouths. That black line in the middle of that table is the likely level of consumption with an allowance for certain levels of inevitable waste. There will always be waste. I'm not that unrealistic that I think we can live in a waste-free world. But that black line shows what a food supply should be in a country if they allow for a good, stable, secure, nutritional diet for every person in that country. Any dot above that line, and you'll quickly notice that that includes most countries in the world, represents unnecessary surplus, and is likely to reflect levels of waste in each country. As a country gets richer, it invests more and more in getting more and more surplus into its shops and restaurants, and as you can see, most European and North American countries fall between 150 and 200 percent of the nutritional requirements of their populations. So a country like America has twice as much food on its shop shelves and in its restaurants than is actually required to feed the American people. But the thing that really struck me, when I plotted all this data, and it was a lot of numbers, was that you can see how it levels off. Countries rapidly shoot towards that 150 mark, and then they level off, and they don't really go on rising as you might expect. So I decided to unpack that data a little bit further to see if that was true or false. And that's what I came up with. If you include not just the food that ends up in shops and restaurants, but also the food that people feed to livestock, the maize, the soy, the wheat, that humans could eat but choose to fatten livestock instead to produce increasing amounts of meat and dairy products, what you find is that most rich countries have between three and four times the amount of food that their population needs to feed itself. A country like America has four times the amount of food that it needs. When people talk about the need to increase global food production to feed those nine billion people that are expected on the planet by 2050, I always think of these graphs. The fact is, we have an enormous buffer in rich countries between ourselves and hunger. We've never had such gargantuan surpluses before. In many ways, this is a great success story of human civilization, of the agricultural surpluses that we set out to achieve 12,000 years ago. It is a success story. It has been a success story. But what we have to recognize now is that we are reaching the ecological limits that our planet can bear, and when we chop down forests, as we are every day, to grow more and more food, when we extract water from depleting water reserves, when we emit fossil fuel emissions in the quest to grow more and more food, and then we throw away so much of it, we have to think about what we can start saving. And yesterday, I went to one of the local supermarkets that I often visit to inspect, if you like, what they're throwing away. I found quite a few packets of biscuits amongst all the fruit and vegetables and everything else that was in there. And I thought, well this could serve as a symbol for today. So I want you to imagine that these nine biscuits that I found in the bin represent the global food supply, okay? We start out with nine. That's what's in fields around the world every single year. The first biscuit we're going to lose before we even leave the farm. That's a problem primarily associated with developing work agriculture, whether it's a lack of infrastructure, refrigeration, pasteurization, grain stores, even basic fruit crates, which means that food goes to waste before it even leaves the fields. The next three biscuits are the foods that we decide to feed to livestock, the maize, the wheat and the soya. Unfortunately, our beasts are inefficient animals, and they turn two-thirds of that into feces and heat, so we've lost those two, and we've only kept this one in meat and dairy products. Two more we're going to throw away directly into bins. This is what most of us think of when we think of food waste, what ends up in the garbage, what ends up in supermarket bins, what ends up in restaurant bins. We've lost another two, and we've left ourselves with just four biscuits to feed on. That is not a superlatively efficient use of global resources, especially when you think of the billion hungry people that exist already in the world. Having gone through the data, I then needed to demonstrate where that food ends up. Where does it end up? We're used to seeing the stuff on our plates, but what about all the stuff that goes missing in between? Supermarkets are an easy place to start. This is the result of my hobby, which is unofficial bin inspections. (Laughter) Strange you might think, but if we could rely on corporations to tell us what they were doing in the back of their stores, we wouldn't need to go sneaking around the back, opening up bins and having a look at what's inside. But this is what you can see more or less on every street corner in Britain, in Europe, in North America. It represents a colossal waste of food, but what I discovered whilst I was writing my book was that this very evident abundance of waste was actually the tip of the iceberg. When you start going up the supply chain, you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan scale. Can I have a show of hands if you have a loaf of sliced bread in your house? Who lives in a household where that crust — that slice at the first and last end of each loaf — who lives in a household where it does get eaten? Okay, most people, not everyone, but most people, and this is, I'm glad to say, what I see across the world, and yet has anyone seen a supermarket or sandwich shop anywhere in the world that serves sandwiches with crusts on it? (Laughter) I certainly haven't. So I kept on thinking, where do those crusts go? (Laughter) This is the answer, unfortunately: 13,000 slices of fresh bread coming out of this one single factory every single day, day-fresh bread. In the same year that I visited this factory, I went to Pakistan, where people in 2008 were going hungry as a result of a squeeze on global food supplies. We contribute to that squeeze by depositing food in bins here in Britain and elsewhere in the world. We take food off the market shelves that hungry people depend on. Go one step up, and you get to farmers, who throw away sometimes a third or even more of their harvest because of cosmetic standards. This farmer, for example, has invested 16,000 pounds in growing spinach, not one leaf of which he harvested, because there was a little bit of grass growing in amongst it. Potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect, all going for pigs. Parsnips that are too small for supermarket specifications, tomatoes in Tenerife, oranges in Florida, bananas in Ecuador, where I visited last year, all being discarded. This is one day's waste from one banana plantation in Ecuador. All being discarded, perfectly edible, because they're the wrong shape or size. If we do that to fruit and vegetables, you bet we can do it to animals too. Liver, lungs, heads, tails, kidneys, testicles, all of these things which are traditional, delicious and nutritious parts of our gastronomy go to waste. Offal consumption has halved in Britain and America in the last 30 years. As a result, this stuff gets fed to dogs at best, or is incinerated. This man, in Kashgar, Xinjiang province, in Western China, is serving up his national dish. It's called sheep's organs. It's delicious, it's nutritious, and as I learned when I went to Kashgar, it symbolizes their taboo against food waste. I was sitting in a roadside cafe. A chef came to talk to me, I finished my bowl, and halfway through the conversation, he stopped talking and he started frowning into my bowl. I thought, ""My goodness, what taboo have I broken? How have I insulted my host?"" He pointed at three grains of rice at the bottom of my bowl, and he said, ""Clean."" (Laughter) I thought, ""My God, you know, I go around the world telling people to stop wasting food. This guy has thrashed me at my own game."" (Laughter) But it gave me faith. It gave me faith that we, the people, do have the power to stop this tragic waste of resources if we regard it as socially unacceptable to waste food on a colossal scale, if we make noise about it, tell corporations about it, tell governments we want to see an end to food waste, we do have the power to bring about that change. Fish, 40 to 60 percent of European fish are discarded at sea, they don't even get landed. In our homes, we've lost touch with food. This is an experiment I did on three lettuces. Who keeps lettuces in their fridge? Most people. The one on the left was kept in a fridge for 10 days. The one in the middle, on my kitchen table. Not much difference. The one on the right I treated like cut flowers. It's a living organism, cut the slice off, stuck it in a vase of water, it was all right for another two weeks after this. Some food waste, as I said at the beginning, will inevitably arise, so the question is, what is the best thing to do with it? I answered that question when I was 15. In fact, humans answered that question 6,000 years ago: We domesticated pigs to turn food waste back into food. And yet, in Europe, that practice has become illegal since 2001 as a result of the foot-and-mouth outbreak. It's unscientific. It's unnecessary. If you cook food for pigs, just as if you cook food for humans, it is rendered safe. It's also a massive saving of resources. At the moment, Europe depends on importing millions of tons of soy from South America, where its production contributes to global warming, to deforestation, to biodiversity loss, to feed livestock here in Europe. At the same time we throw away millions of tons of food waste which we could and should be feeding them. If we did that, and fed it to pigs, we would save that amount of carbon. If we feed our food waste which is the current government favorite way of getting rid of food waste, to anaerobic digestion, which turns food waste into gas to produce electricity, you save a paltry 448 kilograms of carbon dioxide per ton of food waste. It's much better to feed it to pigs. We knew that during the war. (Laughter) A silver lining: It has kicked off globally, the quest to tackle food waste. Feeding the 5,000 is an event I first organized in 2009. We fed 5,000 people all on food that otherwise would have been wasted. Since then, it's happened again in London, it's happening internationally, and across the country. It's a way of organizations coming together to celebrate food, to say the best thing to do with food is to eat and enjoy it, and to stop wasting it. For the sake of the planet we live on, for the sake of our children, for the sake of all the other organisms that share our planet with us, we are a terrestrial animal, and we depend on our land for food. At the moment, we are trashing our land to grow food that no one eats. Stop wasting food. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	我在15歲時就開始揭穿全球浪費食物的醜行我買了幾頭豬，當時我住在英格蘭薩西克斯郡而我用最傳統最環保的方式飼養牠們我去我們學校的廚房跟他們說：「給我一些同學們不屑吃的連聞都不想聞的廚餘吧。」我去附近的麵包店拿不新鮮的麵包我去蔬果攤，我去找農夫去拿他們要丟掉的馬鈴薯，因為這些馬鈴薯不符合超市收購所要求的形狀或尺寸這方法棒極了。我的豬把那些本來會浪費掉的食物轉變成好吃的豬肉。我把這些豬肉賣給同學的父母，而我因此賺了一筆為數不錯的零用錢，口袋豐滿了不少 但我注意到我給豬吃的大多數食物事實上都還可以給人吃我還注意到我只是看到事實的表面也注意到整條食物供給鏈從超市、蔬果攤、麵包店、我們的家到工廠及農場，我們簡直是食物大出血超市根本就不想跟我談他們到底浪費了多少食物我曾繞到店家的後面，看著一桶又一桶滿滿的食物被鎖在那裡，然後被垃圾車載到掩埋場所以我想，應該還有更合理的方法可以處理這些食物，而不是扔掉 有一天早上，我在餵豬的時候注意到有一片看起來很好吃的蕃茄乾土司這樣的土司偶爾會出現在廚餘裡我趕快把它撿起來坐下，與我的豬共進早餐（笑聲）這是我第一次實踐不消費主義（freeganism）這是我後來學到的名詞這顯示了我們如何錯待廚餘同時也爲如何處理廚餘提供解答其實就是坐下來吃掉這些食物不要把它丟掉這真的變成要面對面挑戰那些浪費食物的大型企業更重要的，是對大眾揭露當我們談論被丟棄的食物我們不是在說壞掉的食物，我們不是在說那些超過保存期限的東西我們是在談那些還很好還很新鮮的食物就這樣被大量的浪費掉 我後來終於決定寫書來告訴大家這個問題的嚴重程度已經到了全球化的規模。這裡顯示的是以國家來細分，這世上每一個國家浪費食物的可能程度不幸的是，實證數據，那些很好很紮實的統計數據並不存在所以為了證明我的觀點，我首先必須找出一些能夠揭露有多少食物已經被浪費掉的替代方法所以我把每一個國家的食物供給量與那個國家的實際食物消費量拿來作比較這數據是以調查飲食攝入量及肥胖程度為基本以及一系列讓你能粗略地估算到底有多少食物真的被吃掉的因素為基準所得到的結果那條在圖中間的黑線是大概能吃掉多少的量其中已經加了一些不可避免的浪費量總是會有浪費，我沒有那麼不實際認為我們可以活在完全沒有浪費的世界所以那條黑線顯示了一個國家的食物供給量應該是多少，假設他們能提供良好、穩定又安全的營養食物給國家裡的每一個人所以超過這條線的點，你很快就會注意到這世上大多數的國家都在此線之上這代表著不必要的糧食過剩，而且大致能反映每一個國家的浪費程度 當國家變得更富有，商店及餐廳的食物過剩現象也愈來愈明顯正如你所見，大部分的歐洲及北美洲國家都落在人口營養需求量的百分之一百五到二百之間意思是像美國這樣的國家，有超過兩倍以上美國人實際所需的食物擺在店架及餐廳裡 但是真正讓我震驚的是當我把這些資料畫成圖時，這是很大一批數據你可以看到它趨緩的走勢這些國家迅速達到150這個點然後持平，不再完全如你所預期的繼續上升所以我決定進一步研究這些數據看看到底這種走勢是反應事實還是假象而這是我得到的結果如果你把商店及餐廳的食物以及人們拿去餵牲畜的食物都包括在裡面也就是你把玉米、黃豆、麥子這些本來是人類可以吃的食物拿去養肥牲畜以生產更多量的肉品及奶製品那麼你會發現大部分的富裕國家有三到四倍那麼多餵飽他們的人口所需的食物而像美國這個國家有著它所需四倍的食物 當大家在討論是否需要增加全球糧食生產以餵飽預計到2050年會增長到九十億的全球人口我總是想到我的這些圖表事實上，在富裕的國家我們有足以因應飢荒的食物這麼龐大數量的多餘糧食是前所未見的從很多角度來看這是個成功的人類文明發展故事是個在一萬兩千年前人類就想要達到的農業盈餘目標這是個成功的故事，一直以來都是但是現在我們必須承認，我們正朝著地球所能容忍的生態發展限制邁進當我們砍下森林來種植更多的糧食現在我們每天都這麼做當我們從日漸乾涸的水庫取水當我們排放石化燃料廢氣以尋求能種植更多的糧食的同時我們卻丟掉這麼多的糧食我們必須思考該如何開始節約糧食 昨天我去一家附近的超市我常常去那裡查看 —你可以這麼說 — 他們丟了哪些食物我找到了好幾包餅乾，混在那些被丟棄的水果蔬菜及其他的東西裡我就在想，嗯，這可以當我今天的教材 所以我現在要你想像一下這九片我在垃圾桶裡找到的餅乾，代表着全球糧食供給可以嗎？我們從九片開始這代表全球的全年作物種植量在作物還沒離開農場出貨前我們就要先拿掉一片餅乾這問題的主因與農工發展有關。可能是因為缺乏基礎設施，沒有冰箱，沒有殺菌設備穀物保存不當，甚至是缺乏最基本的水果箱所以這部分的作物在從農場出貨前就已經浪費掉了接下來的三片餅乾代表著那些我們決定拿來餵牲畜的糧食，玉米、麥子、黃豆不幸的是這些牲畜是效率很低的動物牠們把三分之二的糧食轉成糞便及熱能所以我們要拿掉兩片，只留下一片在這代表着肉品及乳製品接下來我們要直接丟掉兩片到垃圾桶裡這就是我們所認知的糧食浪費，即那些被丟到垃圾桶裡的那些被超市丟棄的還有那些被餐廳丟棄的食物，我們為此丟掉兩片餅乾所以現在我們只剩下四片餅乾能拿來吃這真的不是利用全球資源最有效的方法尤其是當你想到全球已經有上億的人口處在飢餓下 我已經解釋過了我的數據，現在我要告訴你們那些被浪費的食物去了哪裡你知道那些食物去了哪裡？我們看慣了食物裝在盤子裡，但是那些沒有出現在盤子裡的食物呢？ 超市是個很容易舉的例子這是我的好習慣的結果就是非正式的垃圾桶檢查（笑聲）你可能覺得奇怪，但是如果你真能相信企業所宣稱他們在店後面所做的事我們就不需要偷偷摸摸地繞到後面去打開垃圾桶，然後看看裡面到底有什麼但這就是你在英國、歐洲、北美洲的街角或多或少會看見的景象這代表著龐大的糧食浪費但在我寫書時我發現到這罪證確鑿的浪費景象其實只是冰山的一角當你循著供應鏈向源頭走你就會發現我們正以龐大的規模浪費食物 請舉一下手如果你家裡有一條切好的土司麵包誰會把土司麵包皮 —就是土司的第一片及最後那一片硬皮 —誰會把土司麵包皮吃掉？很好，大多數都會，雖然不是每一個人，但大多數都會我很高興地說這也是我在全球看到的現象但是在這世界上，誰在超市或三明治店裡看過他們拿麵包皮來做三明治？（笑聲）我可從來沒看過所以我老在想，到底那些皮去了哪裡？（笑聲）很不幸的，這就是答案光是這家工廠每一天就要丟掉一萬三千片新鮮的麵包皮。剛做好的麵包我去參觀這家工廠的同一年我也去了巴基斯坦。2008年時那裡的人正餓著肚子說是因為全球糧食供給短缺我們也在這短缺上有份因為無論是在英國這裡或在世界其他地方我們都把食物丟到垃圾桶裡，我們把那些飢餓的人所仰賴的食物從貨架上取走！ 再沿供給鏈向上走一步，去看看那些農夫有時候他們丟掉三分之一或更多的收成，只因為外表不符收購標準舉個例子，這位農夫投資了一萬六千英磅來種植波菜，但是他一片也沒收成因為有一些野草長在其中這些長相不完美的馬鈴薯通通拿來餵豬而這些長的太小，不合超市規格的歐洲防風草根（類似蘿蔔）西班牙特內里夫的番茄佛羅里達州的柳橙還有厄瓜多爾產的香蕉，都是如此。去年我還去過那裡這是厄瓜多爾一處香蕉農園一天所丟掉的香蕉量這些通通被丟掉，完全可食用只因為它們的形狀或尺寸不對 如果我們可以這樣處理水果蔬菜沒錯我們也可以這樣處理動物肝臟、肺部、頭、尾巴腎臟、睪丸這些東西在烹飪學裡都是既傳統又美味營養的東西我們卻把它丟掉。過去30年英國及美國內臟食用量少了一半結果就是，最好的情況是拿去餵狗要不然就只好燒掉了這位仁兄在中國西部新疆省的喀什噶爾賣一種國民飲食叫做「麵肺子和米腸子」的羊內臟食品這很美味很營養而且我去喀什噶爾時學到這象徵著他們對浪費食物的禁忌有一天我坐在路邊攤廚師走過來跟我聊天，我已經吃完了聊到一半的時候他突然停止說話然後對著我的碗皺皺眉我心想，我的天我犯了什麼禁忌？我做了什麼得罪了我的店東？他指著碗底的三粒飯說：「吃完！」（笑聲）我心想，天啊，你知道嗎，我走遍全世界告訴大家不要再浪費食物這傢伙簡直是狠狠地甩了我一巴掌（笑聲） 但這也給了我信心，我相信我們大家的確有能力來停止這樣的浪費資源悲劇如果我們都認為這樣大規模的浪費食物是社會不能接受的事如果我們大聲疾呼告訴企業不能再這樣做告訴政府我們要看到糧食浪費停止我們的確有能力帶來那樣的改變 譬如魚類，百分之40到60的歐洲魚類在海裡捕到就丟了，甚至根本上不了岸在家裡我們已經跟食物完全脫了節我拿了三棵萵苣來做這個實驗這裡有誰把萵苣冰在冰箱理？大部分人都這麼做。左邊這棵在冰箱裡冰了10天中間這棵放在我的廚房桌子上，兩者沒有什麼不同右邊這棵我把它當切花對待這是棵活的生物，我把它橫切插在水瓶裡兩個星期後看起來還是很好 就像我一開場就提到的，浪費糧食的現象必然會增加。所以問題是要怎麼做才是最好的因應方法？我在15歲時就回答了這個問題事實上人類早在六千年前就回答了這個問題我們馴養豬把廚餘再轉變成食物但是在歐洲自2001年起，因為口蹄疫爆發的關係餵豬廚餘已經變成不合法這個決定既沒有科學根據，也沒有必要如果你把食物煮過再給豬吃，就像你把食物煮過才給人吃，它可證明是安全的同時這也大量節省了資源目前歐洲仰賴上百萬噸的進口南非黃豆來餵豬但在南非這項生產已造成全球暖化、森林砍伐及生物多樣化消失與此同時我們也丟棄了上百萬噸可以也應該拿來餵豬的廚餘如果我們拿廚餘餵豬，我們可以減少圖上顯示的碳排放量如果我們把食品廢棄物拿去無氧發酵，這樣會把食品廢棄物轉變成氣體來發電這是目前政府最愛的方法但每噸廚餘你只能減少448公斤二氧化碳排放多麼微不足道。拿去餵豬比較好我們在二次大戰時就知道了。（笑聲） 不過我已看到一線曙光。全球已開始尋求打擊糧食浪費的方法「餵飽五千人」是我在2009年首次舉辦的活動我們用原本要被丟棄的食物餵飽了五千人之後倫敦也舉辦了一次現在這項活動在國際間舉行，也在全國各地舉行這是各組織聯合起來頌讚食物，同時宣告對待食物最好的方法就是吃掉並且享用它，而且不要再浪費了爲了我們所住的地球爲了我們的孩子爲了與我們共享地球的所有其他生物我們是陸地的動物，我們依靠我們的土地生產糧食，但同時我們卻糟蹋我們的土地來種植那些沒人要吃的食物不要再浪費食物了！謝謝大家。（掌聲）（掌聲）
