Talk	en	zh-tw
tshering_tobgay_this_country_isn_t_just_carbon_neutral_it_s_carbon_negative	"In case you are wondering, no, I'm not wearing a dress, and no, I'm not saying what I'm wearing underneath. (Laughter) This is a gho. This is my national dress. This is how all men dress in Bhutan. That is how our women dress. Like our women, we men get to wear pretty bright colors, but unlike our women, we get to show off our legs. (Laughter) Our national dress is unique, but this is not the only thing that's unique about my country. Our promise to remain carbon neutral is also unique, and this is what I'd like to speak about today, our promise to remain carbon neutral. But before I proceed, I should set you the context. I should tell you our story. Bhutan is a small country in the Himalayas. We've been called Shangri-La, even the last Shangri-La. But let me tell you right off the bat, we are not Shangri-La. My country is not one big monastery populated with happy monks. (Laughter) The reality is that there are barely 700,000 of us sandwiched between two of the most populated countries on earth, China and India. The reality is that we are a small, underdeveloped country doing our best to survive. But we are doing OK. We are surviving. In fact, we are thriving, and the reason we are thriving is because we've been blessed with extraordinary kings. Our enlightened monarchs have worked tirelessly to develop our country, balancing economic growth carefully with social development, environmental sustainability and cultural preservation, all within the framework of good governance. We call this holistic approach to development ""Gross National Happiness,"" or GNH. Back in the 1970s, our fourth king famously pronounced that for Bhutan, Gross National Happiness is more important than Gross National Product. (Applause) Ever since, all development in Bhutan is driven by GNH, a pioneering vision that aims to improve the happiness and well-being of our people. But that's easier said than done, especially when you are one of the smallest economies in the world. Our entire GDP is less than two billion dollars. I know that some of you here are worth more — (Laughter) individually than the entire economy of my country. So our economy is small, but here is where it gets interesting. Education is completely free. All citizens are guaranteed free school education, and those that work hard are given free college education. Healthcare is also completely free. Medical consultation, medical treatment, medicines: they are all provided by the state. We manage this because we use our limited resources very carefully, and because we stay faithful to the core mission of GNH, which is development with values. Our economy is small, and we must strengthen it. Economic growth is important, but that economic growth must not come from undermining our unique culture or our pristine environment. Today, our culture is flourishing. We continue to celebrate our art and architecture, food and festivals, monks and monasteries. And yes, we celebrate our national dress, too. This is why I can wear my gho with pride. Here's a fun fact: you're looking at the world's biggest pocket. (Laughter) It starts here, goes around the back, and comes out from inside here. In this pocket we store all manner of personal goods from phones and wallets to iPads, office files and books. (Laughter) (Applause) But sometimes — sometimes even precious cargo. So our culture is flourishing, but so is our environment. 72 percent of my country is under forest cover. Our constitution demands that a minimum of 60 percent of Bhutan's total land shall remain under forest cover for all time. (Applause) Our constitution, this constitution, imposes forest cover on us. Incidentally, our king used this constitution to impose democracy on us. You see, we the people didn't want democracy. We didn't ask for it, we didn't demand it, and we certainly didn't fight for it. Instead, our king imposed democracy on us by insisting that he include it in the constitution. But he went further. He included provisions in the constitution that empower the people to impeach their kings, and included provisions in here that require all our kings to retire at the age of 65. (Applause) Fact is, we already have a king in retirement: our previous king, the Great Fourth, retired 10 years ago at the peak of his popularity. He was all of 51 years at that time. So as I was saying, 72 percent of our country is under forest cover, and all that forest is pristine. That's why we are one of the few remaining global biodiversity hotspots in the world, and that's why we are a carbon neutral country. In a world that is threatened with climate change, we are a carbon neutral country. Turns out, it's a big deal. Of the 200-odd countries in the world today, it looks like we are the only one that's carbon neutral. Actually, that's not quite accurate. Bhutan is not carbon neutral. Bhutan is carbon negative. Our entire country generates 2.2 million tons of carbon dioxide, but our forests, they sequester more than three times that amount, so we are a net carbon sink for more than four million tons of carbon dioxide each year. But that's not all. (Applause) We export most of the renewable electricity we generate from our fast-flowing rivers. So today, the clean energy that we export offsets about six million tons of carbon dioxide in our neighborhood. By 2020, we'll be exporting enough electricity to offset 17 million tons of carbon dioxide. And if we were to harness even half our hydropower potential, and that's exactly what we are working at, the clean, green energy that we export would offset something like 50 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. That is more CO2 than what the entire city of New York generates in one year. So inside our country, we are a net carbon sink. Outside, we are offsetting carbon. And this is important stuff. You see, the world is getting warmer, and climate change is a reality. Climate change is affecting my country. Our glaciers are melting, causing flash floods and landslides, which in turn are causing disaster and widespread destruction in our country. I was at that lake recently. It's stunning. That's how it looked 10 years ago, and that's how it looked 20 years ago. Just 20 years ago, that lake didn't exist. It was a solid glacier. A few years ago, a similar lake breached its dams and wreaked havoc in the valleys below. That destruction was caused by one glacier lake. We have 2,700 of them to contend with. The point is this: my country and my people have done nothing to contribute to global warming, but we are already bearing the brunt of its consequences. And for a small, poor country, one that is landlocked and mountainous, it is very difficult. But we are not going to sit on our hands doing nothing. We will fight climate change. That's why we have promised to remain carbon neutral. We first made this promise in 2009 during COP 15 in Copenhagen, but nobody noticed. Governments were so busy arguing with one another and blaming each other for causing climate change, that when a small country raised our hands and announced, ""We promise to remain carbon neutral for all time,"" nobody heard us. Nobody cared. Last December in Paris, at COP 21, we reiterated our promise to remain carbon neutral for all time to come. This time, we were heard. We were noticed, and everybody cared. What was different in Paris was that governments came round together to accept the realities of climate change, and were willing to come together and act together and work together. All countries, from the very small to the very large, committed to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change says that if these so-called intended commitments are kept, we'd be closer to containing global warming by two degrees Celsius. By the way, I've requested the TED organizers here to turn up the heat in here by two degrees, so if some of you are feeling warmer than usual, you know who to blame. It's crucial that all of us keep our commitments. As far as Bhutan is concerned, we will keep our promise to remain carbon neutral. Here are some of the ways we are doing it. We are providing free electricity to our rural farmers. The idea is that, with free electricity, they will no longer have to use firewood to cook their food. We are investing in sustainable transport and subsidizing the purchase of electric vehicles. Similarly, we are subsidizing the cost of LED lights, and our entire government is trying to go paperless. We are cleaning up our entire country through Clean Bhutan, a national program, and we are planting trees throughout our country through Green Bhutan, another national program. But it is our protected areas that are at the core of our carbon neutral strategy. Our protected areas are our carbon sink. They are our lungs. Today, more than half our country is protected, as national parks, nature reserves and wildlife sanctuaries. But the beauty is that we've connected them all with one another through a network of biological corridors. Now, what this means is that our animals are free to roam throughout our country. Take this tiger, for example. It was spotted at 250 meters above sea level in the hot, subtropical jungles. Two years later, that same tiger was spotted near 4,000 meters in our cold alpine mountains. Isn't that awesome? (Applause) We must keep it that way. We must keep our parks awesome. So every year, we set aside resources to prevent poaching, hunting, mining and pollution in our parks, and resources to help communities who live in those parks manage their forests, adapt to climate change, and lead better lives while continuing to live in harmony with Mother Nature. But that is expensive. Over the next few years, our small economy won't have the resources to cover all the costs that are required to protect our environment. In fact, when we run the numbers, it looks like it'll take us at least 15 years before we can fully finance all our conservation efforts. But neither Bhutan, nor the world can afford to spend 15 years going backwards. This is why His Majesty the King started Bhutan For Life. Bhutan For Life gives us the time we need. It gives us breathing room. It is essentially a funding mechanism to look after our parks, to protect our parks, until our government can take over on our own fully. The idea is to raise a transition fund from individual donors, corporations and institutions, but the deal is closed only after predetermined conditions are met and all funds committed. So multiparty, single closing: an idea we borrowed from Wall Street. This means that individual donors can commit without having to worry that they'll be left supporting an underfunded plan. It's something like a Kickstarter project, only with a 15-year time horizon and millions of tons of carbon dioxide at stake. Once the deal is closed, we use the transition fund to protect our parks, giving our government time to increase our own funding gradually until the end of the 15-year period. After that, our government guarantees full funding forever. We are almost there. We expect to close later this year. Naturally, I'm pretty excited. (Applause) The World Wildlife Fund is our principle partner in this journey, and I want to give them a big shoutout for the excellent work they are doing in Bhutan and across the world. (Applause) Whew, it is getting warm in here. I thank you for listening to our story, a story of how we are keeping our promise to remain carbon neutral, a story of how we are keeping our country pristine, for ourselves, our children, for your children and for the world. But we are not here to tell stories, are we? We are here to dream together. So in closing, I'd like to share one more dream that I have. What if we could mobilize our leadership and our resources, our influence and our passion, to replicate the Bhutan For Life idea to other countries so that they too can conserve their protected areas for all time. After all, there are many other countries who face the same issues that we face. They too have natural resources that can help win the world's fight for sustainability, only they may not have the ability to invest in them now. So what if we set up Earth For Life, a global fund, to kickstart the Bhutan For Life throughout the world? I invite you to help me, to carry this dream beyond our borders to all those who care about our planet's future. After all, we're here to dream together, to work together, to fight climate change together, to protect our planet together. Because the reality is we are in it together. Some of us might dress differently, but we are in it together. Thank you very much, and kadrin chhe la. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you, thank you, thank you."	各位要是在猜想我穿的是什麼...不，我穿的不是裙子，但，我也不會告訴各位我裡面穿什麼。 （笑聲） 這是「幗」。這是我們國家的傳統服飾。不丹的男人都是這樣穿，我們的女人是這樣穿。我們男生穿的跟女生一樣，服飾都相當亮眼，但我們跟女生不同的地方是，我們可以炫耀一下美腿。 （笑聲） 我們國家的傳統服飾相當獨特，但這不是我們國家唯一的特點。我們對「維持碳平衡」的承諾也相當獨特，而這就是我今天要談的事：我們對「維持碳平衡」的承諾。 但在往下解釋之前，我先跟各位介紹一下我國。我想先說我們的故事。 不丹是在喜馬拉雅山上的一個小國家。我們被稱呼為「香格里拉」，甚至是世界上最後一個香格里拉。但我要先說清楚，我們不是香格里拉。我們的國家不是一個開心和尚滿街跑的國家。 （笑聲） 真實的情況是，我們國家不到 70 萬的人口，被夾在全球人口最多的兩個國家中國和印度之間。真實的情況是，我們是一個低度開發小國，盡我們所能的維持生存。但我們做的還不錯，我們存活下來了。實際上，我們是興盛的，我們興盛的原因是有英明的國王保佑著我們。我們英明的君王孜孜不倦地發展我們的國家，小心翼翼地將經濟成長與社會發展、環境永續，以及文化保存維持平衡。全部都有一個很好的管理架構。我們稱呼這個整體發展的成就叫做「國民幸福總值」，簡稱GNH。回到1970年，我們第四任著名的國王向不丹人民說明國民幸福總值比國民生產總值重要。 （掌聲） 自此之後，所有不丹的發展都以GNH為基礎，這個前衛遠見的宗旨是促進人民幸福與福利。 但說比做容易，特別是，當你只是全世界最小的一個經濟體時。我們全國的國民生產總值不到20億美金。我知道在座有些人的財產比這多很多。 （笑聲） 個人賺的甚至比我國加總起來還要多。 所以，我們的經濟體很小，但這也是有趣的地方。我們的教育完全免費。全體人民享有免費的學校教育，更努力工作的人享有免費的大學教育。衛生保健也是完全免費。看醫生、醫療、吃藥：全部由政府提供。我們能夠做到這些，是因為我們很小心翼翼地使用我們有限的資源，因為我們忠於GNH的核心任務，也就是有價值的發展。我們的經濟體小，而我們必須強化它。經濟成長很重要，但經濟成長不能建立在破壞我們的獨特文化或純淨的原始環境之上。 今日，我們的文化是繁榮的。我們會繼續歌頌我們的藝術和建築、食物和節日、僧侶和寺廟。當然，我們也會歌頌我們國家的服飾。這就是為什麼我很驕傲地穿著「幗」。這裡有一件有趣的事實：你現在看到的是全世界最大的口袋。 （笑聲） 口袋從這邊開始，一直到後面，然後，從這裡面出來。在口袋裡，我們放進了所有的個人物品，從手機到皮夾，從iPad到辦公文件及書。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 但有時候──有時候甚至是我們珍貴的寶貝。 我們的文化是欣欣向榮的，我們的環境也是。我的國家72%被森林覆蓋。我們的憲法規定不丹至少有60%的土地必須永遠維持森林覆蓋。 （掌聲） 我們的憲法，這本憲法，將森林覆蓋強加在我們的土地上。順便一提，我們的國王用這本憲法將民主強加在我們身上。你看，我們的人民不想要民主。我們不要求民主，我們不奢求民主，我們更不會為民主而戰。反而是我們的國王堅持要在憲法裡面強加民主給我們。但他更進一步。他在憲法裡面規定，授權給人民可以彈劾他們的國王，更在憲法中規定，我們的國王必須在65歲時退休。 （掌聲） 事實上，我們已經有一個退休的國王：我們的前國王，偉大的四世，10年前，在最受擁戴的時候退休。他在51歲時退位。 所以，就如我所說的，我們國家的森林覆蓋率為72%，所有的森林都是原始森林。所以我們是世上少數幾個仍保持生物多樣性的熱門景點，而這就是為什麼我們是碳平衡國家的原因。在全球被氣候變化所威脅時，我們仍是一個碳平衡國家。 事實證明，這件事很不得了。當今世界上的200多個國家，看起來，只有我們是唯一一個碳平衡的國家。實際上，這樣形容不太準確。不丹不是碳平衡國家。不丹是碳負數的國家。我們整個國家每年產出220萬噸的二氧化碳，但我們的森林隔絕了超過三倍的總量，所以我們是一個每年超過400萬噸的二氧化碳淨碳槽。但不僅如此。 （掌聲） 我們還可以出口大部分從湍急河流生產出來的再生能源電力。所以現今，我們出口的乾淨能源為我們的鄰居抵銷了大約600萬噸的二氧化碳。在2020年前，我們將出口足夠的電力，來抵銷1700萬噸的二氧化碳。如果我們能利用至少一半的水力發電潛力，那也是我們正在努力的地方，我們出口的乾淨綠色能源，將每年可以抵消將近5000萬噸的二氧化碳。這個數字比紐約整個城市一整年產出的二氧化碳還要多。 所以，對內，我們國家本身就是一個淨碳槽。對外，我們還能幫助其它國家減碳。這是很重要的事情。你看，地球逐漸暖化，而氣候變化也是事實。氣候變化正在影響我的國家。我們的冰川正在融化，造成瞬間的洪水與山崩，這些都造成了災害，而且大範圍地重創我們的國家。我最近到這湖邊。場景真的令人觸目驚心。這是它10年前的景色，這是它20年前的景色，才20年前，那個湖根本不存在啊！它是固態的冰川。幾年前，一個類似的湖泊衝破了壩攔，造成山谷下游的破壞。這個破壞是由一個冰川湖所造成。我們有2700個這種湖泊要應付。但重點是：我的國家跟人民在全球暖化上並沒有做錯什麼事，但我們卻首當其衝地要面對全球暖化所造成的後果。這對一個可憐、多山的內陸小國而言是相當艱辛的。但我們不會兩手一攤什麼事都不做。我們會為氣候變化而戰。這也是為什麼我們承諾保持碳平衡的原因。 我們早在2009年，就首次宣示這項承諾，就在哥本哈根第15次全球氣候變化大會上，但沒有人注意到我們。各國忙著彼此爭論並互相指責造成氣候變化的原因，所以當我們這種小國家，舉手宣誓「我們承諾永遠保持碳平衡」時，根本沒人要理我們。沒有人在乎。 去年12月在巴黎舉行的第21次全球氣候變化大會上，我們重申我們的承諾，未來都會保持碳平衡的立場。這一次，我們的聲音被聽見了。我們被注意到了，每個人都相當關心。巴黎氣候變化大會與之前不同的地方是，各國政府意識到並接受氣候變化的事實，且想當有意願要一起行動、一起努力。所有的國家，從小國到大國，都願意承諾降低溫室氣體的排放。聯合國氣候變化綱要公約說明，如果這些所謂的「承諾」能維持，我們的全球暖化溫度就可能維持在兩個攝氏度以內。 順便說一下，我已要求 TED 的籌辦單位，把室內的冷氣溫度提高兩度，所以，如果各位覺得比平常稍熱，你知道要怪誰了吧！ 我們每個人都遵守承諾很重要。就不丹而言，我們會繼續信守對碳平衡的承諾。我們已經開始執行一些方法。我們提供免費電力給鄉村的農夫。這個想法就是，有了免費電力，他們就不會用煤炭來烹煮他們的食物。我們正對永續運輸進行投資，並補助人民購買電動車。同樣地，我們也補助 LED 燈的費用。我們所有政府單位正嘗試往無紙作業方向努力。我們透過國家計畫「乾淨的不丹」來讓國家更加乾淨。並透過另一個國家計畫「綠色不丹」，在全國上下栽種更多的植物。 但，我們所保護的領域才是我們碳平衡策略的核心。我們保護的領域就是我們的淨碳槽。它們是我們呼吸的肺。今日，我們有超過一半的國家土地是保護區，像是國家公園、自然保護區、和野生動物保護區。但美妙之處在於，我們透過生態網路走廊，將它們彼此連接起來。意思就是，我們的動物可以自由地漫步在整個國家。拿這隻老虎為例，牠曾經在炎熱的亞熱帶叢林海平面250米處被發現。兩年後，同樣的老虎，在將近4000米的寒冷高山區也被發現了。是不是很了不起？ （掌聲） 我們必須繼續保持下去。我們的保護區必須繼續讓人驚豔。因此每年，我們都會預留資源，來預防偷獵、打獵、開墾、汙染我們的保護區，並協助住這些保護區的社區居民管理他們的森林、適應氣候變化、並以虔誠的心來對待我們的大地之母。 但，這是需要付出昂貴代價的。接下來的幾年，我們的小經濟體將不會有足夠資源來支付我們要保護的環境。事實上，我們進行財務評估時，看起來似乎至少得花15年的時間，才夠支付我們所有的保育工作。但不僅是不丹，全世界也無法承受得起再花15年時間才能回到過去。 這就是為什麼我們的國王陛下要進行「不丹永存」的計畫。「不丹永存」計畫給我們需要的時間。它給予我們呼吸的空間。它本質上是一種募集資金機制，用以照顧我們的公園、保護我們的公園，直到我們的政府有能力可以完全接手。想法是，從個人捐贈或法人機構來募資一個轉型基金，但直到預設的條件及所有資金到位後才會關閉募資，而所有的基金才會交付委託。所以要多方募資、單方停止：這想法是從華爾街的概念來的。這表示個人捐贈者可以完全不必擔心贊助了一個無法完成募資的計畫。這有點像群眾募資的平台Kickstarter 上的計畫，只是，這是長達15年的計畫，攸關上百萬噸二氧化碳。當募資一旦關閉，我們會利用轉換基金來保護我們的公園、給我們政府時間來慢慢增加我們的自有資金直到15年結束。之後，我們的政府保證永遠全額資助。 我們即將完成。我們預計今年底完成募資。當然，我相當興奮。 （掌聲） 世界自然基金會（WWF）是我們這趟旅程中最主要的夥伴，我要大聲地公開感謝他們為不丹及全世界所做的一切。 （掌聲） 呼，現在好像有點熱了。 我要感謝各位聆聽我們的故事，一個我們如何信守對碳平衡承諾的故事，一個我們如何保持國家原始純潔的故事，這都是為了我們自己、我們孩子的將來，為了你們孩子、全世界的將來。但我們不是來這裡聽故事的，對吧？我們在這裡一起發夢。所以結束前，我要向各位分享我的一個夢想。要是大家可以一起動員我們的領袖及我們的資源、我們的影響力及熱情，來複製「不丹永存」的想法給全世界，那麼他們也可以永遠保存自己的保護區。畢竟，現在有很多的國家也面臨我們正面臨的困境。他們也有自然資源，可以幫助贏得這場全球永續發展的戰爭，也許他們現在沒有能力可以投資他們自己。所以，要是我們能設立「地球永存」全球性募資計畫，將「不丹永存」模式複製到全世界？我邀請各位幫助我，讓我們打破疆界，為了我們地球的未來一起圓這個夢想。畢竟，我們在這裡就是要一起夢想、一起合作、一起對抗氣候變遷、一起保護我們的地球。因為，現實是，大家同舟共命。雖然我們穿著的服飾不同，但我們都住在同一個地球上。 非常謝謝各位，（不丹語）感恩，謝謝。 （掌聲） 謝謝各位、謝謝各位、謝謝各位。
