Talk	en	zh-tw
two_young_scientists_break_down_plastics_with_bacteria	"Miranda Wang: We're here to talk about accidents. How do you feel about accidents? When we think about accidents, we usually consider them to be harmful, unfortunate or even dangerous, and they certainly can be. But are they always that bad? The discovery that had led to penicillin, for example, is one of the most fortunate accidents of all time. Without biologist Alexander Fleming's moldy accident, caused by a neglected workstation, we wouldn't be able to fight off so many bacterial infections. Jeanny Yao: Miranda and I are here today because we'd like to share how our accidents have led to discoveries. In 2011, we visited the Vancouver Waste Transfer Station and saw an enormous pit of plastic waste. We realized that when plastics get to the dump, it's difficult to sort them because they have similar densities, and when they're mixed with organic matter and construction debris, it's truly impossible to pick them out and environmentally eliminate them. MW: However, plastics are useful because they're durable, flexible, and can be easily molded into so many useful shapes. The downside of this convenience is that there's a high cost to this. Plastics cause serious problems, such as the destruction of ecosystems, the pollution of natural resources, and the reduction of available land space. This picture you see here is the Great Pacific Gyre. When you think about plastic pollution and the marine environment, we think about the Great Pacific Gyre, which is supposed to be a floating island of plastic waste. But that's no longer an accurate depiction of plastic pollution in the marine environment. Right now, the ocean is actually a soup of plastic debris, and there's nowhere you can go in the ocean where you wouldn't be able to find plastic particles. JY: In a plastic-dependent society, cutting down production is a good goal, but it's not enough. And what about the waste that's already been produced? Plastics take hundreds to thousands of years to biodegrade. So we thought, you know what? Instead of waiting for that garbage to sit there and pile up, let's find a way to break them down with bacteria. Sounds cool, right? Audience: Yeah. JY: Thank you. But we had a problem. You see, plastics have very complex structures and are difficult to biodegrade. Anyhow, we were curious and hopeful and still wanted to give it a go. MW: With this idea in mind, Jeanny and I read through some hundreds of scientific articles on the Internet, and we drafted a research proposal in the beginning of our grade 12 year. We aimed to find bacteria from our local Fraser River that can degrade a harmful plasticizer called phthalates. Phthalates are additives used in everyday plastic products to increase their flexibility, durability and transparency. Although they're part of the plastic, they're not covalently bonded to the plastic backbone. As a result, they easily escape into our environment. Not only do phthalates pollute our environment, but they also pollute our bodies. To make the matter worse, phthalates are found in products to which we have a high exposure, such as babies' toys, beverage containers, cosmetics, and even food wraps. Phthalates are horrible because they're so easily taken into our bodies. They can be absorbed by skin contact, ingested, and inhaled. JY: Every year, at least 470 million pounds of phthalates contaminate our air, water and soil. The Environmental Protection Agency even classified this group as a top-priority pollutant because it's been shown to cause cancer and birth defects by acting as a hormone disruptor. We read that each year, the Vancouver municipal government monitors phthalate concentration levels in rivers to assess their safety. So we figured, if there are places along our Fraser River that are contaminated with phthalates, and if there are bacteria that are able to live in these areas, then perhaps, perhaps these bacteria could have evolved to break down phthalates. MW: So we presented this good idea to Dr. Lindsay Eltis at the University of British Columbia, and surprisingly, he actually took us into his lab and asked his graduate students Adam and James to help us. Little did we know at that time that a trip to the dump and some research on the Internet and plucking up the courage to act upon inspiration would take us on a life-changing journey of accidents and discoveries. JY: The first step in our project was to collect soil samples from three different sites along the Fraser River. Out of thousands of bacteria, we wanted to find ones that could break down phthalates, so we enriched our cultures with phthalates as the only carbon source. This implied that, if anything grew in our cultures, then they must be able to live off of phthalates. Everything went well from there, and we became amazing scientists. (Laughter) MW: Um... uh, Jeanny. JY: I'm just joking. MW: Okay. Well, it was partially my fault. You see, I accidentally cracked the flask that had contained our third enrichment culture, and as a result, we had to wipe down the incubator room with bleach and ethanol twice. And this is only one of the examples of the many accidents that happened during our experimentation. But this mistake turned out to be rather serendipitous. We noticed that the unharmed cultures came from places of opposite contamination levels, so this mistake actually led us to think that perhaps we can compare the different degradative potentials of bacteria from sites of opposite contamination levels. JY: Now that we grew the bacteria, we wanted to isolate strains by streaking onto mediate plates, because we thought that would be less accident-prone, but we were wrong again. We poked holes in our agar while streaking and contaminated some samples and funghi. As a result, we had to streak and restreak several times. Then we monitored phthalate utilization and bacterial growth, and found that they shared an inverse correlation, so as bacterial populations increased, phthalate concentrations decreased. This means that our bacteria were actually living off of phthalates. MW: So now that we found bacteria that could break down phthalates, we wondered what these bacteria were. So Jeanny and I took three of our most efficient strains and then performed gene amplification sequencing on them and matched our data with an online comprehensive database. We were happy to see that, although our three strains had been previously identified bacteria, two of them were not previously associated with phthalate degradation, so this was actually a novel discovery. JY: To better understand how this biodegradation works, we wanted to verify the catabolic pathways of our three strains. To do this, we extracted enzymes from our bacteria and reacted with an intermediate of phthalic acid. MW: We monitored this experiment with spectrophotometry and obtained this beautiful graph. This graph shows that our bacteria really do have a genetic pathway to biodegrade phthalates. Our bacteria can transform phthalates, which is a harmful toxin, into end products such as carbon dioxide, water and alcohol. I know some of you in the crowd are thinking, well, carbon dioxide is horrible, it's a greenhouse gas. But if our bacteria did not evolve to break down phthalates, they would have used some other kind of carbon source, and aerobic respiration would have led it to have end products such as carbon dioxide anyway. We were also interested to see that, although we've obtained greater diversity of bacteria biodegraders from the bird habitat site, we obtained the most efficient degraders from the landfill site. So this fully shows that nature evolves through natural selection. JY: So Miranda and I shared this research at the Sanofi BioGENEius Challenge competition and were recognized with the greatest commercialization potential. Although we're not the first ones to find bacteria that can break down phthalates, we were the first ones to look into our local river and find a possible solution to a local problem. We have not only shown that bacteria can be the solution to plastic pollution, but also that being open to uncertain outcomes and taking risks create opportunities for unexpected discoveries. Throughout this journey, we have also discovered our passion for science, and are currently continuing research on other fossil fuel chemicals in university. We hope that in the near future, we'll be able to create model organisms that can break down not only phthalates but a wide variety of different contaminants. We can apply this to wastewater treatment plants to clean up our rivers and other natural resources. And perhaps one day we'll be able to tackle the problem of solid plastic waste. MW: I think our journey has truly transformed our view of microorganisms, and Jeanny and I have shown that even mistakes can lead to discoveries. Einstein once said, ""You can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking you used when you created them."" If we're making plastic synthetically, then we think the solution would be to break them down biochemically. Thank you. JY: Thank you. (Applause)"	米蘭達.王：我們今天要來聊聊意外。大家對意外有些什麼看法呢每當談起意外通常人們都認為是負面的不幸的，甚至是危險的當然這確實有可能但意外一定都是不好的嗎例如青黴素的發現就是史上最幸運的意外之一如果沒有生物學家亞歷山大.弗萊明因為不小心遺忘了實驗而造成黴菌意外產生我們就無法治癒這麼多的細菌感染 吉尼.姚：米蘭達和我今天來到這裡想要和大家分享我們的意外和它所引發的新發現2011年，我們造訪了溫哥華廢料轉運站看到了一個龐大的塑料廢品坑我們發現當塑料被丟棄時因為密度相近因而很難分類特別當被和有機物跟建築廢料混在一起時想要分類跟做環保處理幾乎是不可能的事情想要分類跟做環保處理幾乎是不可能的事情 米蘭達：但是，塑料的用處很多因為它們耐用、而且可塑性高輕易就能依需要做成不同形狀這種便利也有負面影響就是它背後所要付上的龐大成本塑料會帶來嚴重的問題例如，對生態環境的破壞對自然資源的污染以及土地資源的減少這張照片是太平洋環流帶當談到塑料污染和海洋環境時當談到塑料污染和海洋環境時我們就會想到太平洋環流帶就是一個由塑料廢品形成的漂浮小島但講到海洋生態裡的塑料污染這個描述已經不再準確如今，海洋充斥著塑料廢棄物不論在海洋的什麽位置你都能發現塑料碎片 吉尼：在這個對塑料極其依賴的社會降低生產是個可行的目標，只是還不夠還有那些已經產生的垃圾怎麼辦呢塑料需要好幾千年才能分解所以我們想到與其等著看垃圾堆積成山倒不如利用細菌把它們分解掉倒不如利用細菌把它們分解掉聽起來很棒，對吧 觀眾：沒錯吉尼：謝謝但我們遇到了一個問題大家知道，塑料的結構複雜很難進行生物分解不過我們既好奇又滿懷期待還是想要嘗試一下 米蘭達：於是吉尼和我到網路上查閱了上百篇科學文獻在剛升上12年級的時候我們擬了一份調查意見書我們的目標是在當地的菲莎河(Fraser River)裡找到細菌來分解有毒的塑化劑 - 鄰苯二甲酸酯鄰苯二甲酸酯是製作日常塑料製品的添加劑以增強可塑性、耐用性和透明度儘管它不是塑料的一部份它和塑料基礎成份沒有共價鍵也因此鄰苯二甲酸酯很容易就滲入生態環境鄰苯二甲酸酯不僅會污染環境也會傷害我們的身體更糟糕的是，鄰苯二甲酸酯運用廣泛人們接觸頻繁，例如嬰兒玩具飲料容器，化妝品，甚至是食物包裝鄰苯二甲酸酯很可怕因為它們很容易被人體吸收可以被皮膚吸收透過嘴巴吃下肚及吸入 吉尼：每年至少有4億7千萬磅的鄰苯二甲酸酯污染了我們的空氣、水源和土壤環境保護單位甚至將其列為主要污染源因為它會擾亂荷爾蒙進而致癌及造成胎兒畸形我們聽說，溫哥華市政府每年都會監測河流的鄰苯二甲酸酯濃度我們聽說，溫哥華市政府每年都會監測河流的鄰苯二甲酸酯濃度以評估安全性於是我們想，如果菲莎河附近有鄰苯二甲酸酯污染而這些地區又同時有細菌存在那麼可能、也許這些細菌能夠進化來分解鄰苯二甲酸酯 米蘭達：於是我們把這個想法告訴了加拿大英屬哥倫比亞大學林賽.奧爾蒂斯博士意外的是，他居然帶我們到他的實驗室並讓他的學生亞當和詹姆斯幫助我們我們當時完全不知道那次廢料站之旅和上網研究到後來鼓足勇氣實現想法會把我們帶向這個完全改變人生的意外及發現之旅會把我們帶向這個完全改變人生的意外及發現之旅 吉尼：我們計畫的第一步是沿著菲莎河的三個點隨機採樣是沿著菲莎河的三個點隨機採樣在上千種細菌中，我們想要找到可以分解鄰苯二甲酸酯的細菌於是我們濃縮了鄰苯二甲酸酯的培養用它作為唯一的碳元素源這意味著，如果有任何東西能在培育中生長它們一定是依賴鄰苯二甲酸酯而生的之後一切都進行地順利我們成為了偉大的科學家（笑聲） 米蘭達：嗯……呃，吉尼吉尼：我開個玩笑罷了 米蘭達：好吧，我也應該負一部份責任你們瞧，我不小心弄裂了實驗燒瓶裏面裝著第三批濃縮培養結果我們不得不用漂白劑和乙醇洗了兩遍才把培養皿室裡的地板清理乾淨這只是我們實驗過程中所發生的眾多意外事件之一但這次失誤卻造就了一次意外發現我們發現未經污染的培養是從相對的污染程度區域取得的因此這個錯誤讓我們想到也許我們可以從不同污染程度的區域採樣細菌來比較他們不同的分解能力 吉尼：既然我們培養了細菌我們想藉由把細菌分離到中介容器來隔離菌株因為我們認為這樣做可以減少意外發生但我們又錯了我們在分離時戳破了瓊脂(瓊脂: 細菌培養基)就污染了一些樣本和真菌結果不得不重新分離了好幾次然後我們監測了鄰苯二甲酸酯的使用情形以及細菌生長情況發現了它們有一種成反比的關聯就是當細菌數增加了鄰苯二甲酸酯濃度就會降低也就是說我們的細菌其實是依賴鄰苯二甲酸酯而生的 米蘭達：我們已經發現了可以分解鄰苯二甲酸酯的細菌我們想知道這些是什麽細菌於是吉尼和我用三株最強的菌株進行了基因擴增排序得到的數據和一個線上綜合資料庫吻合為此我們很高興儘管這三株菌株之前被認為是細菌其中兩株之前並沒有被認為與鄰苯二甲酸酯有關因此這算是一個新發現 吉尼：爲了能更瞭解這個生物分解的發生原理我們想要檢驗三株菌株的分解代謝途徑於是我們從細菌內萃取出酶用鄰苯二甲酸作為媒介進行反應 米蘭達：我們用分光光度測定法監測了實驗得到了這幅美麗的圖譜圖譜顯示我們的細菌確實具有降解鄰苯二甲酸酯的基因途徑我們的細菌可以改變鄰苯二甲酸酯這種有害毒素最後變成二氧化碳，水或者酒精 我知道你們有些人在想二氧化碳也不好，它是溫室氣體但如果我們的細菌沒有分解鄰苯二甲酸酯它們會用到其他種類的碳資源此外有氧呼吸也會導致二氧化碳的產生 我們也很高興地發現儘管我們從鳥類棲息地獲得了更多具有降解能力的細菌最小的降解源其實源自於垃圾掩埋場這充分地證明了大自然的進化是隨著自然界的選擇而發生 吉尼：米蘭達和我把這項研究帶到了賽諾菲加拿大生物科技研究競賽上並獲得了最具商業化潛力研究獎雖然我們不是第一個發現細菌可以分解鄰苯二甲酸酯的人雖然我們不是第一個發現細菌可以分解鄰苯二甲酸酯的人但我們是第一個研究當地河流並找到解決當地問題方法的人我們不僅發現了細菌能夠解決塑料污染，而且還證明了對意外結果保持開放態度以及願意冒險可以創造出意外的發現 在此過程中，我們也發現了自己對科學的熱情我們目前在大學繼續研究其他礦物化學燃料我們希望在不久的將來我們可以創造出生物物種不僅用於分解鄰苯二甲酸酯還可以分解其他各種污染物我們可以將此運用到廢水處理場來清潔我們的河流和其他自然資源也許將來某一天我們可以解決固體塑料污染問題 米蘭達：我認為我們的經歷真正地改變了我們對微生物的認識吉尼和我證明了錯誤也能引發新發現愛因斯坦曾經說過要想解決問題必須跳脫造成那個問題的思考方式如果我們是以合成方式製成塑料那我們認為解決問題的方法就是以生化降解的方式分解它們 謝謝吉尼：謝謝 （掌聲）
