Talk	en	zh-tw
tyler_dewitt_hey_science_teachers_make_it_fun	"Let me tell you a story. It's my first year as a new high school science teacher, and I'm so eager. I'm so excited, I'm pouring myself into my lesson plans. But I'm slowly coming to this horrifying realization that my students just might not be learning anything. This happens one day: I'd just assigned my class to read this textbook chapter about my favorite subject in all of biology: viruses and how they attack. And so I'm so excited to discuss this with them, and I come in and I say, ""Can somebody please explain the main ideas and why this is so cool?"" There's silence. Finally, my favorite student, she looks me straight in the eye, and she says, ""The reading sucked."" And then she clarified. She said, ""You know what, I don't mean that it sucks. It means that I didn't understand a word of it. It's boring. Um, who cares, and it sucks."" These sympathetic smiles spread all throughout the room now, and I realize that all of my other students are in the same boat, that maybe they took notes or they memorized definitions from the textbook, but not one of them really understood the main ideas. Not one of them can tell me why this stuff is so cool, why it's so important. I'm totally clueless. I have no idea what to do next. So the only thing I can think of is say, ""Listen. Let me tell you a story. The main characters in the story are bacteria and viruses. These guys are blown up a couple million times. The real bacteria and viruses are so small we can't see them without a microscope, and you guys might know bacteria and viruses because they both make us sick. But what a lot of people don't know is that viruses can also make bacteria sick."" Now, the story that I start telling my kids, it starts out like a horror story. Once upon a time there's this happy little bacterium. Don't get too attached to him. Maybe he's floating around in your stomach or in some spoiled food somewhere, and all of a sudden he starts to not feel so good. Maybe he ate something bad for lunch, and then things get really horrible, as his skin rips apart, and he sees a virus coming out from his insides. And then it gets horrible when he bursts open and an army of viruses floods out from his insides. If — Ouch is right! — If you see this, and you're a bacterium, this is like your worst nightmare. But if you're a virus and you see this, you cross those little legs of yours and you think, ""We rock."" Because it took a lot of crafty work to infect this bacterium. Here's what had to happen. A virus grabbed onto a bacterium and it slipped its DNA into it. The next thing is, that virus DNA made stuff that chopped up the bacteria DNA. And now that we've gotten rid of the bacteria DNA, the virus DNA takes control of the cell and it tells it to start making more viruses. Because, you see, DNA is like a blueprint that tells living things what to make. So this is kind of like going into a car factory and replacing the blueprints with blueprints for killer robots. The workers still come the next day, they do their job, but they're following different instructions. So replacing the bacteria DNA with virus DNA turns the bacteria into a factory for making viruses — that is, until it's so filled with viruses that it bursts. But that's not the only way that viruses infect bacteria. Some are much more crafty. When a secret agent virus infects a bacterium, they do a little espionage. Here, this cloaked, secret agent virus is slipping his DNA into the bacterial cell, but here's the kicker: It doesn't do anything harmful — not at first. Instead, it silently slips into the bacteria's own DNA, and it just stays there like a terrorist sleeper cell, waiting for instructions. And what's interesting about this is now whenever this bacteria has babies, the babies also have the virus DNA in them. So now we have a whole extended bacteria family, filled with virus sleeper cells. They're just happily living together until a signal happens and — BAM! — all of the DNA pops out. It takes control of these cells, turns them into virus-making factories, and they all burst, a huge, extended bacteria family, all dying with viruses spilling out of their guts, the viruses taking over the bacterium. So now you understand how viruses can attack cells. There are two ways: On the left is what we call the lytic way, where the viruses go right in and take over the cells. On the [right] is the lysogenic way that uses secret agent viruses. So this stuff is not that hard, right? And now all of you understand it. But if you've graduated from high school, I can almost guarantee you've seen this information before. But I bet it was presented in a way that it didn't exactly stick in your mind. So when my students were first learning this, why did they hate it so much? Well, there were a couple of reasons. First of all, I can guarantee you that their textbooks didn't have secret agent viruses, and they didn't have horror stories. You know, in the communication of science there is this obsession with seriousness. It kills me. I'm not kidding. I used to work for an educational publisher, and as a writer, I was always told never to use stories or fun, engaging language, because then my work might not be viewed as ""serious"" and ""scientific."" Right? I mean, because God forbid somebody have fun when they're learning science. So we have this field of science that's all about slime, and color changes. Check this out. And then we have, of course, as any good scientist has to have, explosions! But if a textbook seems too much fun, it's somehow unscientific. Now another problem was that the language in their textbook was truly incomprehensible. If we want to summarize that story that I told you earlier, we could start by saying something like, ""These viruses make copies of themselves by slipping their DNA into a bacterium."" The way this showed up in the textbook, it looked like this: ""Bacteriophage replication is initiated through the introduction of viral nucleic acid into a bacterium."" That's great, perfect for 13-year-olds. But here's the thing. There are plenty of people in science education who would look at this and say there's no way that we could ever give that to students, because it contains some language that isn't completely accurate. For example, I told you that viruses have DNA. Well, a very tiny fraction of them don't. They have something called RNA instead. So a professional science writer would circle that and say, ""That has to go. We have to change it to something much more technical."" And after a team of professional science editors went over this really simple explanation, they'd find fault with almost every word I've used, and they'd have to change anything that wasn't serious enough, and they'd have to change everything that wasn't 100 percent perfect. Then it would be accurate, but it would be completely impossible to understand. This is horrifying. You know, I keep talking about this idea of telling a story, and it's like science communication has taken on this idea of what I call the tyranny of precision, where you can't just tell a story. It's like science has become that horrible storyteller that we all know, who gives us all the details nobody cares about, where you're like, ""Oh, I met my friend for lunch the other day, and she was wearing these ugly jeans. I mean, they weren't really jeans, they were more kind of, like, leggings, but, like, I guess they're actually kind of more like jeggings, like, but I think — "" and you're just like, ""Oh my God. What is the point?"" Or even worse, science education is becoming like that guy who always says, ""Actually."" Right? You want to be like, ""Oh, dude, we had to get up in the middle of the night and drive a hundred miles in total darkness."" And that guy's like, ""Actually, it was 87.3 miles."" And you're like, ""Actually, shut up! I'm just trying to tell a story."" Because good storytelling is all about emotional connection. We have to convince our audience that what we're talking about matters. But just as important is knowing which details we should leave out so that the main point still comes across. I'm reminded of what the architect Mies van der Rohe said, and I paraphrase, when he said that sometimes you have to lie in order to tell the truth. I think this sentiment is particularly relevant to science education. Now, finally, I am often so disappointed when people think that I'm advocating a dumbing down of science. That's not true at all. I'm currently a Ph.D. student at MIT, and I absolutely understand the importance of detailed, specific scientific communication between experts, but not when we're trying to teach 13-year-olds. If a young learner thinks that all viruses have DNA, that's not going to ruin their chances of success in science. But if a young learner can't understand anything in science and learns to hate it because it all sounds like this, that will ruin their chances of success. This needs to stop, and I wish that the change could come from the institutions at the top that are perpetuating these problems, and I beg them, I beseech them to just stop it. But I think that's unlikely. So we are so lucky that we have resources like the Internet, where we can circumvent these institutions from the bottom up. There's a growing number of online resources that are dedicated to just explaining science in simple, understandable ways. I dream of a Wikipedia-like website that would explain any scientific concept you can think of in simple language any middle schooler can understand. And I myself spend most of my free time making these science videos that I put on YouTube. I explain chemical equilibrium using analogies to awkward middle school dances, and I talk about fuel cells with stories about boys and girls at a summer camp. The feedback that I get is sometimes misspelled and it's often written in LOLcats, but nonetheless it's so appreciative, so thankful that I know this is the right way we should be communicating science. There's still so much work left to be done, though, and if you're involved with science in any way I urge you to join me. Pick up a camera, start to write a blog, whatever, but leave out the seriousness, leave out the jargon. Make me laugh. Make me care. Leave out those annoying details that nobody cares about and just get to the point. How should you start? Why don't you say, ""Listen, let me tell you a story""? Thank you. (Applause)"	讓我給你說個故事。 現在是我第一年當高中科學教師，而我滿懷期待。我非常興奮，把自己完全投入了課程的安排之中。然而我慢慢理解到一個恐怖的事實是我的學生們可能其實什麼也沒有學到。 有一天發生了這樣的事：我指定了我們班讀課本裡的一章是有關於生物學中我最喜歡的部份：病毒以及牠們如何攻擊致病。因此我非常興奮要與他們討論這課題，而當我切入話題時，「請哪一位可以解釋一下這裡的主要概念以及這個概念為什麼這麼酷？」 課堂裡一片寂靜。終於，我最喜愛的學生，她直直看著我的眼然後她說，「閱讀很糟。」接下來她澄清道說，「你知道嗎，我不是說這課題很糟。我的意思是我無法明白這裡任何一個字。」這很無聊。而且，誰管它，這就是很糟。」 那些深感同情的微笑現在漫延到整個房間，而我了解我所有其他學生都在同樣的情況裡，就是雖然他們記筆記或是記下課本裡的定義，但是他們中沒有一位真正理解主要概念。他們沒有一位能夠告訴我為什麼這東西如此酷，為什麼這如此重要。 我完全沒了頭緒。我完全不知道下一步該怎麼作。所以我唯一能想到的就是說，「聽著。讓我來跟你們說個故事吧。在這故事裡面的主角是細菌和病毒。這兩位先生被放大了幾百萬倍。真正的細菌和病毒是如此的小我們不用顯微鏡是無法看見牠們的，而或許你們會知道細菌和病毒是因為牠們都使我們生病。然而有很多人不知道的是病毒也能夠使細菌生病。」 現在，這是我告訴我孩子們的故事，它的開頭像是個恐怖故事。很久以前有一隻小小快樂的細菌。別對牠太過著迷囉。有可能牠在你的胃裡四處漂流或者在哪裡的腐壞食物中，突然牠開始感到有些不舒服。大概是牠午餐吃了些不好的東西，然後事情變得非常恐怖，牠的皮膚裂開，看見一隻病毒從牠的肚子裡跑出來。接著更恐怖的事發生了牠爆開而且一整隊的病毒像洪水般從牠體內湧出。如果—唉唷是正確的形容—如果你看到這，而你是隻細菌，這就像是你最糟糕的惡夢。反而如果你是病毒而看到這，你會交叉你那小小的雙腿想著，「我們超屌。」因為要感染這隻細菌需要很多精密的工作。以下是會發生的事一隻病毒抓上了一隻細菌然後它把DNA植入那隻細菌接著發生的事，病毒的DNA會生產物質把細菌的DNA切成一斷一斷然後現在我們就搞定了細菌的DNA病毒的DNA奪下了這個細胞並告訴這個細胞開始生成更多的病毒因為，你知道，DNA像是藍圖告訴活著的東西要建造甚麼。所以這有點像是走進汽車工廠然後把他們的工程藍圖偷偷換成機器人殺手的藍圖。第二天工廠工人仍然來，完成他們的工作，只是現在他們遵從不同的指示。所以把細菌的DNA換成病毒的DNA就會把細菌轉化成製造病毒的工廠—就是，直到病毒塞爆這隻細菌。但是這不是病毒感染細菌的唯一方式。有些是更狡猾的。當特務病毒要感染一隻細菌時，他們會先做點小偵測。這隻穿著夜行衣的特務病毒正要植入它的DNA到細菌細胞中，但最厲害的是這個：它不會做任何有傷害性的動作——至少一開始不會相反地，它悄悄将自己的DNA塞入細菌，然後就待在那像是一個小歇中的恐怖份子，等待著進一步指示。有趣的是，現在只要這隻細菌有了小孩，它的小孩們也會帶有病毒的DNA。所以現在有了一整個家族的細菌，都感染上了這沉睡中的病毒。他們一同快樂地住在一起直到信號發生然後—碰！—所有病毒的DNA竄出奪下了這些細胞，把它們變成病毒工廠，然後他們全都爆開來，一整個大細菌家族，全部死於從肝膽竄出的細菌，然後病毒大舉掌控了細菌。現在你就知道病毒如何攻擊細胞。有兩種方式：左邊的我們叫做裂解性，也就是病毒直接攻擊然後奪下細胞。右邊是溶原性派出的是秘密特務病毒。 所以這些東西並不那麼難，對吧？現在你們全部都了解了。然而只要你們讀過高中，我幾乎可以保證你曾看過這樣的資訊。但是我懷疑會是以這樣的形式出現使它不會深深印在你的腦海。 这就是我的學生第一次學這個的時候，為什麼他們如此恨這課題？嗯，這裡有幾點原因。 第一點，我可以保證你他們的教科書沒有秘密特務病毒，也沒有恐怖故事。你們知道嗎，在科學的溝通裡面有一種對嚴肅擺脫不了的著迷。這著迷使我受不了。我不是開玩笑。我曾經為一個教育出版機構工作，而身為一個作家，我總是被告知千萬不要用故事或者是有趣，迷人的文字，因為這樣會使我的作品不會被認為是「嚴肅」和「科學」的。對吧？我是說，因為神禁止人們有樂趣當他們在學習科學知識。就這樣我們有科學領域全有關於軟泥，還有變色反应。看看這個。我們還有，當然，像任何好的科學家都該有的爆炸！然而如果一本教科書看來太好玩，它就會被評為不科學的。 現在另一個問題是在學生教科書裡的文字真的是讓人無法理解的。如果我們要總結前面我告訴你們的那個故事，我們可以從這樣的話起頭，「這些病毒將自己複製是靠著把自己的DNA放進細菌裡面。」而這信息在課本裡出現，是像這樣「病毒感染細菌的複製是起始於引介病毒的核酸進入一個細菌。」那很好，超適合十三歲的人。 但是現在這種情況。有無數的人在科學教育界會看著我們的總結說不可能把這樣的東西教給學生，因為這裡面有些不完全精確的用詞。比如，我告訴你病毒有DNA。事實上，有一小部份的病毒沒有。牠們有叫做RNA的作取代。所以一個專業的科學文字工作者會圈起它然後說，「這必須改掉。」我們必須要把它改成更技術性的詞。」就這樣在一整組專業的科學編輯看過這非常簡單的解釋以後，他們會從我所用的每一個詞挑出錯誤，而且他們必須改正任何不夠嚴肅的詞語，而他們必須改動所有不是百分之百完美的用詞。然後文章會變得十分精確，但是會變得完全無法理解。這真是恐怖。 你知道，我不斷提到這概念也就是說故事，而看起來科學的交流離不開這個概念就是我稱為對精確要求的暴政，你不能只說個故事。好像科學已經成為一個糟糕的說故事者你我都很熟習這種人，給我們一大堆無用細節的人，就像，「喔，我某天跟我的朋友一起吃午餐，而她正穿著那很醜的牛仔褲。我是說，那並不真是牛仔褲，大概更像是褲襪，但是，呃，我猜想那實際上更像是件窄褲，「像是，但我想——而你就像，「喔我的天啊。你到底想要說什麼？」或者更糟的，科學教育已經變成像是個老是在說，「事實上」的人。是吧？你想要像這樣說，「喔，老兄我們必須要半夜起來而且要在黑暗中開上一百英里。」然後那人就回像是，「事實上，那是87.3英里。」然後你就說，「事實上，你給我閉嘴！我只是想要說個故事。」 因為把故事說好完全是件關於情感連接的事。我們要說服我們的聽眾告訴他們我們所說的很重要。但是相同重要的是我們必須省略哪些細節好讓主要的重點能夠顯出。我想起有位建築家Mies van der Rohe說過，而我這裡重述，他說有時候你必須要說謊才能說出實話。我認為這句格言和科學教育特別有關。 現在，終於，我很多時候非常失望當人們認為我是在提倡把科學弱智化。那完全不是真的。我現在是MIT的博士生，而且我絕對理解細節的重要，特別是專家之間的科學溝通，但不該是在我們想要教會13歲孩子的時候。如果有個年輕的學生認為所有的病毒都有DNA，那並不會毀了他們在科學上成功的機會。然而如果一個年輕的學生無法理解任何科學從而學到痛恨它因為它都聽來像天書，那就真會毀了他們成功的機會。 這必須要停止，而我希望改變能來自於那些早存在這種問題的頂尖教育機構，而我求他們，我懇求他們就停止這樣作。但是我想那是不太可能的。所以我們很幸運有一些資源像是網路，在這我們可以在學府以外找到出路從底而上。有越來越多的線上資源是傾注於只解釋科學用的是簡單，易了解的方法。我作夢能有個像是維基百科的網站可以解釋你能想到的任何科學概念用任何中學生都能了解的簡單文字寫成。而我自己花了我大部份的閒遐時間來製作這些我放在YouTube上的影片。我把化學平衡譬喻成怪異的中學生舞蹈，而且我說了許多故事來解釋燃料電池有關在夏季營隊裡的男孩和女孩。有時候我得到的回應是拼錯字的而且時常是以簡化文字像火星文寫的，然而不論如何是非常感激，充滿感謝的讓我知道這是正確的路我們應該這樣討論科學。 然而，這裡還有非常多的工作要做，而如果你在任何方面有參與科學我力勸你來加入我的行列。拿起相機，開始寫個部落格，任何事，但是不要用嚴肅的字眼，不要用專有名詞。讓我笑一個。讓我關心。不要提那些讓人厭煩沒人關心的細節而直接命中要點。你該如何開始呢？你何不說，「聽，讓我來跟你說個故事？」 謝謝 （鼓掌）
