Talk	en	zh-tw
verna_myers_how_to_overcome_our_biases_walk_boldly_toward_them	"I was on a long road trip this summer, and I was having a wonderful time listening to the amazing Isabel Wilkerson's ""The Warmth of Other Suns."" It documents six million black folks fleeing the South from 1915 to 1970 looking for a respite from all the brutality and trying to get to a better opportunity up North, and it was filled with stories of the resilience and the brilliance of African-Americans, and it was also really hard to hear all the stories of the horrors and the humility, and all the humiliations. It was especially hard to hear about the beatings and the burnings and the lynchings of black men. And I said, ""You know, this is a little deep. I need a break. I'm going to turn on the radio."" I turned it on, and there it was: Ferguson, Missouri, Michael Brown, 18-year-old black man, unarmed, shot by a white police officer, laid on the ground dead, blood running for four hours while his grandmother and little children and his neighbors watched in horror, and I thought, here it is again. This violence, this brutality against black men has been going on for centuries. I mean, it's the same story. It's just different names. It could have been Amadou Diallo. It could have been Sean Bell. It could have been Oscar Grant. It could have been Trayvon Martin. This violence, this brutality, is really something that's part of our national psyche. It's part of our collective history. What are we going to do about it? You know that part of us that still crosses the street, locks the doors, clutches the purses, when we see young black men? That part. I mean, I know we're not shooting people down in the street, but I'm saying that the same stereotypes and prejudices that fuel those kinds of tragic incidents are in us. We've been schooled in them as well. I believe that we can stop these types of incidents, these Fergusons from happening, by looking within and being willing to change ourselves. So I have a call to action for you. There are three things that I want to offer us today to think about as ways to stop Ferguson from happening again; three things that I think will help us reform our images of young black men; three things that I'm hoping will not only protect them but will open the world so that they can thrive. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine our country embracing young black men, seeing them as part of our future, giving them that kind of openness, that kind of grace we give to people we love? How much better would our lives be? How much better would our country be? Let me just start with number one. We gotta get out of denial. Stop trying to be good people. We need real people. You know, I do a lot of diversity work, and people will come up to me at the beginning of the workshop. They're like, ""Oh, Ms. Diversity Lady, we're so glad you're here"" — (Laughter) — ""but we don't have a biased bone  in our body."" And I'm like, ""Really? Because I do this work every day, and I see all my biases."" I mean, not too long ago, I was on a plane and I heard the voice of a woman pilot coming over the P.A. system, and I was just so excited, so thrilled. I was like, ""Yes, women, we are rocking it. We are now in the stratosphere."" It was all good, and then it started getting turbulent and bumpy, and I was like, ""I hope she can drive."" (Laughter) I know. Right. But it's not even like I knew that was a bias until I was coming back on the other leg and there's always a guy driving and it's often turbulent and bumpy, and I've never questioned the confidence of the male driver. The pilot is good. Now, here's the problem. If you ask me explicitly, I would say, ""Female pilot: awesome."" But it appears that when things get funky and a little troublesome, a little risky, I lean on a bias that I didn't even know that I had. You know, fast-moving planes in the sky, I want a guy. That's my default. Men are my default. Who is your default? Who do you trust? Who are you afraid of? Who do you implicitly feel connected to? Who do you run away from? I'm going to tell you what we have learned. The implicit association test, which measures unconscious bias, you can go online and take it. Five million people have taken it. Turns out, our default is white. We like white people. We prefer white. What do I mean by that? When people are shown images  of black men and white men, we are more quickly able to associate that picture with a positive word, that white person with a positive word, than we are when we are  trying to associate positive with a black face, and vice versa. When we see a black face, it is easier for us to connect black with negative than it is white with negative. Seventy percent of white people taking that test prefer white. Fifty percent of black people taking that test prefer white. You see, we were all outside when the contamination came down. What do we do about the fact that our brain automatically associates? You know, one of the things that you probably are thinking about, and you're probably like, you know what, I'm just going to double down on my color blindness. Yes, I'm going to recommit to that. I'm going to suggest to you, no. We've gone about as far as we can go trying to make a difference trying to not see color. The problem was never that we saw color. It was what we did when we saw the color. It's a false ideal. And while we're busy  pretending not to see, we are not being aware of the ways in which racial difference is changing people's possibilities, that's keeping them from thriving, and sometimes it's causing them an early death. So in fact, what the scientists are telling us is, no way. Don't even think about color blindness. In fact, what they're suggesting is, stare at awesome black people. (Laughter) Look at them directly in their faces and memorize them, because when we look at awesome folks who are black, it helps to dissociate the association that happens automatically in our brain. Why do you think I'm showing you these beautiful black men behind me? There were so many, I had to cut them. Okay, so here's the thing: I'm trying to reset your automatic associations about who black men are. I'm trying to remind you that young black men grow up to be amazing human beings who have changed our lives and made them better. So here's the thing. The other possibility in science, and it's only temporarily changing our automatic assumptions, but one thing we know is that if you take a white person who is odious that you know, and stick it up next to a person of color, a black person, who is fabulous, then that sometimes actually causes us to disassociate too. So think Jeffrey Dahmer and Colin Powell. Just stare at them, right? (Laughter) But these are the things. So go looking for your bias. Please, please, just get out of denial and go looking for disconfirming data that will prove that in fact your old stereotypes are wrong. Okay, so that's number one: number two, what I'm going to say is move toward young black men instead of away from them. It's not the hardest thing to do, but it's also one of these things where you have to be conscious  and intentional about it. You know, I was in a Wall Street area  one time several years ago when I was with a colleague of mine, and she's really wonderful and she does diversity work with me and she's a woman of color, she's Korean. And we were outside, it was late at night, and we were sort of wondering where we were going, we were lost. And I saw this person across the street, and I was thinking, ""Oh great, black guy."" I was going toward him without even thinking about it. And she was like, ""Oh, that's interesting."" The guy across the street, he was a black guy. I think black guys generally know where they're going. I don't know why exactly I think that, but that's what I think. So she was saying, ""Oh, you were going, 'Yay, a black guy'?"" She said, ""I was going, 'Ooh, a black guy.'"" Other direction. Same need, same guy, same clothes, same time, same street, different reaction. And she said, ""I feel so bad. I'm a diversity consultant. I did the black guy thing. I'm a woman of color. Oh my God!"" And I said, ""You know what? Please. We really need to relax about this."" I mean, you've got to realize I go way back with black guys. (Laughter) My dad is a black guy. You see what I'm saying? I've got a 6'5"" black guy son. I was married to a black guy. My black guy thing is so wide and so deep that I can pretty much sort and figure out who that black guy is, and he was my black guy. He said, ""Yes, ladies, I know where you're going. I'll take you there."" You know, biases are the stories we make up about people before we know who they actually are. But how are we going to know who they are when we've been told to avoid and be afraid of them? So I'm going to tell you to walk toward your discomfort. And I'm not asking you to take any crazy risks. I'm saying, just do an inventory, expand your social and professional circles. Who's in your circle? Who's missing? How many authentic relationships do you have with young black people, folks, men, women? Or any other major difference from who you are and how you roll, so to speak? Because, you know what? Just look around your periphery. There may be somebody at work, in your classroom, in your house of worship, somewhere, there's some black young guy there. And you're nice. You say hi. I'm saying go deeper, closer, further, and build the kinds of relationships, the kinds of friendships that actually cause you to see the holistic person and to really go against the stereotypes. I know some of you are out there, I know because I have some white friends in particular that will say, ""You have no idea how awkward I am. Like, I don't think this is going to work for me. I'm sure I'm going to blow this."" Okay, maybe, but this thing is not  about perfection. It's about connection. And you're not going to get comfortable before you get uncomfortable. I mean, you just have to do it. And young black men, what I'm saying is if someone comes your way, genuinely and authentically, take the invitation. Not everyone is out to get you. Go looking for those people who can see your humanity. You know, it's the empathy and the compassion that comes out of having relationships with people who are different from you. Something really powerful and beautiful happens: you start to realize that they are you, that they are part of you, that they are you in your family, and then we cease to be bystanders and we become actors, we become advocates, and we become allies. So go away from your comfort into a bigger, brighter thing, because that is how we will stop another Ferguson from happening. That's how we create a community where everybody, especially young black men, can thrive. So this last thing is going to be harder, and I know it, but I'm just going to put it out there anyway. When we see something, we have to have the courage to say something, even to the people we love. You know, it's holidays and it's going to be a time when we're sitting around the table and having a good time. Many of us, anyways, will be in holidays, and you've got to listen to the conversations around the table. You start to say things like, ""Grandma's a bigot."" (Laughter) ""Uncle Joe is racist."" And you know, we love Grandma and we love Uncle Joe. We do. We know they're good people, but what they're saying is wrong. And we need to be able to say something, because you know who else is at the table? The children are at the table. And we wonder why these biases don't die, and move from generation to generation? Because we're not saying anything. We've got to be willing to say, ""Grandma, we don't call people that anymore."" ""Uncle Joe, it isn't true that he deserved that. No one deserves that."" And we've got to be willing to not shelter our children from the ugliness of racism when black parents don't have the luxury to do so, especially those who have  young black sons. We've got to take  our lovely darlings, our future, and we've got to tell them we have  an amazing country with incredible ideals, we have worked incredibly hard, and we have made some progress, but we are not done. We still have in us this old stuff about superiority and it is causing us to embed those further into our institutions and our society and generations, and it is making for despair and disparities and a devastating devaluing of young black men. We still struggle, you have to tell them, with seeing both the color and the character of young black men, but that you, and you expect them, to be part of the forces of change in this society that will stand against injustice and is willing, above all other things, to make a society where young black men  can be seen for all of who they are. So many amazing black men, those who are the most amazing statesmen that have ever lived, brave soldiers, awesome, hardworking laborers. These are people who are powerful preachers. They are incredible scientists and artists and writers. They are dynamic comedians. They are doting grandpas, caring sons. They are strong fathers, and they are young men with dreams of their own. Thank you. (Applause)"	在今年夏天的一次長途旅行途中，我正陶醉於一本非常棒的有聲書，易莎貝‧魏克森所著的「他鄉暖陽」。這本書記錄了 1915 至 1970 年間，六百萬黑人逃離美國南方，企圖脫離所有暴力折磨，尋求避風港，嘗試在美國北方獲得更好的生活機遇。這部書充滿了關於美國黑人堅韌和卓越的故事。而聽著那些恐怖、羞辱與充滿歧視的故事，我感到非常難過。尤其是那些對黑人的毆打、燒傷、和死刑的故事讓我特別難過。於是我說：「這有點太沈重了！」「我需要放鬆一下。我要聽聽收音機。」我打開收音機，卻聽到了這些：密蘇里州弗格森市麥克•布朗一個十八歲的男性黑人在沒有持有武器的情況下，被一位白人警察射殺，倒在地上死去，血流不止，持續了整整四個小時。而他的祖母、小孩子們，還有鄰居們在恐懼中目睹了這一幕。我想：又開始了。這些對於黑人的殘忍暴力行徑，已經存在了好幾個世紀，這些事情的本質都是一樣的，只是當事人名字不同而已。與阿馬杜‧狄洛事件一樣，（1999 年被紐約警察槍殺）與希安‧貝爾事件一樣，（2005 年被紐約警察槍殺）與奧斯卡‧格蘭特事件一樣，（2009 年被加州奧克蘭警方槍殺）與特雷凡‧馬丁事件一樣。（2012 年被佛羅里達州桑福德警方槍殺） 這種暴力與野蠻已經在我們國家留下深深的烙印，是我們共同歷史中的一部分。我們要如何去應對它呢？我們內心的那部分仍然......我們會過馬路，鎖上房門抓緊錢包，每當我們看到年輕黑人的時候？就是那個部分。 我的意思是，我們並沒有在街頭射殺無辜，但是釀成那些慘劇的偏見也同樣在我們心中存在。我們也被這些偏見禁錮住了。我相信，我們能夠阻止這種慘劇的發生，阻止像弗格森案件這樣的慘劇發生，只要能夠自我反省並願意改變自我。 所以，我想在這裡呼籲大家做三件我今天想讓大家思考的事情，來阻止弗格森案件這樣的慘劇再度發生。我認為這三件事情可以幫助我們重新塑造對年輕黑人的印象。我希望這三件事不僅可以保護他們，更可以讓整個世界向他們敞開，讓他們奮鬥發展。你們能夠想像這樣的畫面嗎？你們能夠想像我們的國家擁抱年輕黑人，將他們視作我們未來的一部分，給予他們同樣的寬敞空間和同樣的寬厚，如同我們給我們所愛的人一樣？我們的生活與我們的國家將會變得多麼美好？ 我首先要介紹第一件事，那就是：我們必須停止否認，不要再裝作是好人。我們需要真實的人。我從事許多關於社會多樣化的工作，許多人在研討會之初找到我，他們會說：「哦，『多樣化』女士，我們很高興您能夠出席！」（笑聲）「但是我們心中並沒有一絲一毫的偏見。」我會說：「真的嗎？」「因為我每天都在做這方面的工作，但我本人還是有許多偏見。」 不久前，我在一架飛機上聽到機艙廣播裡一位女機長的聲音，當時我非常激動，非常驕傲，「是的，女同胞們，我們做到了！」「我們女人正在天空翱翔！」一切都很好，直到遇到氣流，飛機開始變得顛簸，我在想：「這個女機長到底會不會開飛機啊！」（笑聲）我知道，沒錯！我甚至沒有意識到這是個偏見。直到在回程的航班上，是一位男機長在駕駛，而飛機總是在氣流中顛簸，我卻一直沒有質疑這位男機長的實力，他很棒。問題來了：如果你直接問我，我會這樣說：「女機長，太好了！」但是當出現了一點點小麻煩時，我便會不自覺地產生一些偏見，在天空中快速飛行的飛機上，我希望是由男機長駕駛。我默認就應該是這樣的，我默認就是男性。你們又默認什麼呢？你們信任什麼樣的人呢？你們又害怕哪些人呢？你們與哪些人能產生共鳴？又會躲避哪些人呢？ 我要告訴大家我們的結果與發現。「隱性連結測試」是一個用來檢測你們下意識偏見的測試，你們可以在網絡上進行這個測試。有五百萬人做了這個測試，結果是，我們默認白人更好，我們喜歡白人。我們比較喜歡白人。我這麼說是什麼意思呢？當男性黑人和男性白人的相片同時放給人們看時，我們能比較快地將白人男性的照片與正面的字眼相聯繫，而不是黑人男性。而反之亦然，當我們看到一張黑人面孔時，我們比較容易將他與負面內容相聯繫，而不是白人男性。做那個測驗的白人中百分之七十比較喜歡白人，做同一個測驗的黑人中百分之五十比較喜歡白人。你看，我們都被污染了。 對於我們的大腦自動聯想的事實，我們怎麼處理呢？你知道嗎，你可能在想的一件事，你可能在想：我要進一步否認我對有色人種有歧視。是的，我就是要再犯。我將建議你不要這樣做，我們已盡全力不去分辨一個人的膚色。問題從來就不是我們在分辨膚色，問題在於我們辨別膚色後的行為。那是一個錯誤的理想。當我們忙著假裝不去辨別膚色時，我們就沒有覺察到種族差異在改變著人們能否茁壯成長的可能性。而且有時候，甚至造成他們早夭。 所以事實上，科學家告訴我們的是：別那樣做。完全都不要想著你要去忽略膚色。事實上，他們建議凝視很讚的男性黑人。（笑聲）直接注視著他們的臉，並記住他們。因為當我們看到很讚的黑人時，它有助於瓦解我們大腦自動發生的聯想。你猜猜我為什麼要在身後展示這些漂亮的黑色男性？他們的數量眾多，我只能挑其中一些。好，重點來了：我在嘗試著重置你對於黑人的自動聯想，我要提醒你們，年輕的黑人成長為了不起的人。他們改變了我們的生命，而且讓生活變得更美好。 所以重點是，科學還有另一個可能性：它只是暫時改變了我們的自動假設。但是我們知道的是，如果你將一個可惡的白人放在一個有色人種旁邊，一個非常優秀的黑人旁邊，那有時也會造成我們不再聯想。所以想一想，連環殺手傑佛瑞‧丹墨和前國務卿克林·鮑威爾。你就凝視他們，好嗎？（笑聲）這些就是重點，所以去找你的偏見。拜託，拜託，不要再否認了，去找證明不成立的數據。來證明事實上，你那些老舊刻板印象是錯的。 好了，那就是第一件事情。而第二件事情呢，我要說的是去接近年輕男性黑人，而不是遠離他們。這並不是難過登天的事，但也是你必須自覺且特意去做的事之一。幾年前我一次曾在華爾街地區，當時我和一位同事一起。她人真的很好，她和我一起做多樣化工作，她也是有色人種，是韓國人。我們在外面，天色已晚，我們又不知道自己身在何方，已經迷路了。然後我看到對面有一個人，我在想，「喔，真好，一個黑人」我甚至沒想什麼就走向他。她的表情好像在說，「喔，那真是有趣。」對面那個人是一個黑人。我想黑人通常知道他們在哪裡，我不知道我為什麼會那麼想，但那就是我當時的想法。她說，「喔，你是想，『嘿，一個黑人？』 」她說，「可我是往『唔，一個黑人』那個方向想的 。」同樣需要，同一個人，同樣的衣服，同一時間，同一條街，不同的反應。然後她說：「我覺得自己很壞。我還是一個多樣化顧問呢！」「我竟然對黑人有歧視，而我自己也有色女性，天哪！」我就說，「你知道嗎？拜託，你不要對自己太苛責了。」我的意思是，你肯定知道我和男性黑人可是很有淵源的喲！（笑聲）我父親是黑人，你明白我的意思嗎？我有一個六呎五的黑人兒子，我前夫是黑人。我的黑人背景是既廣且深，我可以大概知道那個黑人是什麼樣的。他是善良的黑人。他說：「是的，女士們，我知道你們要去的地方。 我帶你們去。」 你知道，偏見是我們編出來的故事，在我們還不了解他人是什麼樣的人之前。可我們怎樣才能知道他們是什麼樣的人，當我們總是被教導要去避開他們和害怕他們？所以我要告訴你們：走向你的反感之源。我不是要你們去做瘋狂的冒險，我的意思是，你只需清點一下你的朋友名單，擴張你的社交和專業圈。誰在你的圈子裡？誰不在裡面？你有多少真正有意義的關係是與年輕黑人，老的黑人 ，男性黑人，女性黑人或者其他和你很不一樣的人建立的？或者說，你和什麼樣人混？因為你知道嗎？就只看看你的周圍，在你的工作環境裡面，你的教室裡，你的教堂裡，在某處，一定會有一些年輕的男性黑人。你是和善的人，去打聲招呼。你可以深交一點，走得更接近些，更進一步，然後建立一種關係或友誼，讓你所看到的對方純粹只是另一個人類的那種關係，然後真正地去推翻你的刻板印象。我知道你們有些人是這樣的， 我知道因為我有一些白人朋友會說：「你不知道我覺得有多尷尬。」「我認為我做不到這一點。」「我確定我一定做不到。」或許吧，但是這種事不需要完美，只是需要建立關係。而且你肯定會首先覺得不自在，之後才會開始覺得自在。我的意思是，你就只要去做這件事，年輕的黑人們，我要說的是，如果有人向你示好，很真心很真誠的，你就接受邀請吧。不是每個人都要找你麻煩。去找那些能夠看到你的人性的人。你知道，和那些與你不同的人建立關係所衍生出來的，是同理心和慈悲心。很有力和美好的事情便發生了：你開始意識到他們就是你，他們是你的一部分，他們是你家庭的一份子。然後我們不再是旁觀者了，我們成為演員，我們成為提倡者，我們成為盟友。走出你的舒適圈，去一個更大更明亮的地方，因為如此一來，我們才能不讓另一件如佛格森的事再發生。我們要創造一種環境，在那裡的每個人，尤其是黑人，可以茁壯。 所以這最後一件會比較難做，我知道，但是我還是要提出來。當我們看到不對的事，我們必須有勇氣說出來，甚至是對我們愛的人說出來。就好像放假時，所以我們會與家人或朋友圍坐在桌子旁，共度一段歡樂時光。我們許多人會在度假，而你必定會在那時會聽到一些談話，然後你會開始說像這樣的話：「祖母是偏執狂。」（笑聲）「喬叔叔是種族主義者。」你知道，我們很愛祖母和喬叔叔，我們的確愛他們，我們知道他們是好人，但是他們說的話是錯的。所以我們必須說點什麼，因為你知道誰還坐在桌旁嗎？孩子們也圍坐在桌旁啊！我們奇怪為什麼偏見不會消失，還世代相傳，正是因為我們什麼都不說。我們必須願意說：「奶奶，我們不可再這樣叫別人！」「喬叔叔，你說他活該是不對的！」「沒有人活該受到那樣的待遇。」還有我們必須願意不刻意去為了保護孩子們而不讓他們知道種族歧視的醜陋。黑人父母是無法這麼做的，特別是那些有年幼兒子的黑人父母。我們必須教我們可愛的孩子們，他們是我們的未來。我們必須告訴他們，我們有一個非常好的國家，具有不可思議的理念。我們已盡心盡力，而我們取得了一些進步，但是我們的任務尚未完成。我們的心裡仍有優越感的老毛病，而我們將它植入我們的機構裡，和我們的社會和世代裡。它造成絕望和分裂，並嚴重地降低了年輕黑人的價值。我們仍在掙扎，你必須告訴他們，我們要同時看到年輕黑人的膚色和品格。而且你，你期待他們也成為改變這個社會的一部分力量。你們會反對不公平，而且最重要的就是你們願意將社會變為另一番景象，令年輕黑人可以被視為一個完完整整的人。我們有許多很讚的黑人。 那些最了不起的政治家，勇敢的軍人，很棒、很努力工作的勞工們。這些人則是很有力的傳教士，他們是難以置信的科學家、藝術家和作家，他們是富有活力的喜劇演員。他們是溺愛孫子的祖父，慈愛的兒子，他們是強壯的父親，還有他們是有自己夢想的年輕人。謝謝大家！ （掌聲）
