Talk	en	zh-tw
wes_moore_how_to_talk_to_veterans_about_the_war	"I'm excited to be here to speak about vets, because I didn't join the Army because I wanted to go to war. I didn't join the Army because I had a lust or a need to go overseas and fight. Frankly, I joined the Army because college is really damn expensive, and they were going to help with that, and I joined the Army because it was what I knew, and it was what I knew that I thought I could do well. I didn't come from a military family. I'm not a military brat. No one in my family ever had joined the military at all, and how I first got introduced to the military was when I was 13 years old and I got sent away to military school, because my mother had been threatening me with this idea of military school ever since I was eight years old. I had some issues when I was coming up, and my mother would always tell me, she's like, ""You know, if you don't get this together, I'm going to send you to military school."" And I'd look at her, and I'd say, ""Mommy, I'll work harder."" And then when I was nine years old, she started giving me brochures to show me she wasn't playing around, so I'd look at the brochures, and I'm like, ""Okay, Mommy, I can see you're serious, and I'll work harder."" And then when I was 10 and 11, my behavior just kept on getting worse. I was on academic and disciplinary probation before I hit double digits, and I first felt handcuffs on my wrists when I was 11 years old. And so when I was 13 years old, my mother came up to me, and she was like, ""I'm not going to do this anymore. I'm going to send you to military school."" And I looked at her, and I said, ""Mommy, I can see you're upset, and I'm going to work harder."" And she was like, ""No, you're going next week."" And that was how I first got introduced to this whole idea of the military, because she thought this was a good idea. I had to disagree with her wholeheartedly when I first showed up there, because literally in the first four days, I had already run away five times from this school. They had these big black gates that surrounded the school, and every time they would turn their backs, I would just simply run out of the black gates and take them up on their offer that if we don't want to be there, we can leave at any time. So I just said, ""Well, if that's the case, then I'd like to leave."" (Laughter) And it never worked. And I kept on getting lost. But then eventually, after staying there for a little while, and after the end of that first year at this military school, I realized that I actually was growing up. I realized the things that I enjoyed about this school and the thing that I enjoyed about the structure was something that I'd never found before: the fact that I finally felt like I was part of something bigger, part of a team, and it actually mattered to people that I was there, the fact that leadership wasn't just a punchline there, but that it was a real, actually core part of the entire experience. And so when it was time for me to actually finish up high school, I started thinking about what I wanted to do, and just like probably most students, had no idea what that meant or what I wanted to do. And I thought about the people who I respected and admired. I thought about a lot of the people, in particular a lot of the men, in my life who I looked up to. They all happened to wear the uniform of the United States of America, so for me, the question and the answer really became pretty easy. The question of what I wanted to do was filled in very quickly with saying, I guess I'll be an Army officer. So the Army then went through this process and they trained me up, and when I say I didn't join the Army because I wanted to go to war, the truth is, I joined in 1996. There really wasn't a whole lot going on. I didn't ever feel like I was in danger. When I went to my mom, I first joined the Army when I was 17 years old, so I literally needed parental permission to join the Army, so I kind of gave the paperwork to my mom, and she just assumed it was kind of like military school. She was like, ""Well, it was good for him before, so I guess I'll just let him keep doing it,"" having no idea that the paperwork that she was signing was actually signing her son up to become an Army officer. And I went through the process, and again the whole time still just thinking, this is great, maybe I'll serve on a weekend, or two weeks during the year, do drill, and then a couple years after I signed up, a couple years after my mother signed those papers, the whole world changed. And after 9/11, there was an entirely new context about the occupation that I chose. When I first joined, I never joined to fight, but now that I was in, this is exactly what was now going to happen. And I thought about so much about the soldiers who I eventually had to end up leading. I remember when we first, right after 9/11, three weeks after 9/11, I was on a plane heading overseas, but I wasn't heading overseas with the military, I was heading overseas because I got a scholarship to go overseas. I received the scholarship to go overseas and to go study and live overseas, and I was living in England and that was interesting, but at the same time, the same people who I was training with, the same soldiers that I went through all my training with, and we prepared for war, they were now actually heading over to it. They were now about to find themselves in the middle of places the fact is the vast majority of people, the vast majority of us as we were training, couldn't even point out on a map. I spent a couple years finishing graduate school, and the whole entire time while I'm sitting there in buildings at Oxford that were literally built hundreds of years before the United States was even founded, and I'm sitting there talking to dons about the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand, and how that influenced the start of World War I, where the entire time my heart and my head were on my soldiers who were now throwing on Kevlars and grabbing their flak vests and figuring out how exactly do I change around or how exactly do I clean a machine gun in the darkness. That was the new reality. By the time I finished that up and I rejoined my military unit and we were getting ready to deploy to Afghanistan, there were soldiers in my unit who were now on their second and third deployments before I even had my first. I remember walking out with my unit for the first time, and when you join the Army and you go through a combat tour, everyone looks at your shoulder, because on your shoulder is your combat patch. And so immediately as you meet people, you shake their hand, and then your eyes go to their shoulder, because you want to see where did they serve, or what unit did they serve with? And I was the only person walking around with a bare shoulder, and it burned every time someone stared at it. But you get a chance to talk to your soldiers, and you ask them why did they sign up. I signed up because college was expensive. A lot of my soldiers signed up for completely different reasons. They signed up because of a sense of obligation. They signed up because they were angry and they wanted to do something about it. They signed up because their family said this was important. They signed up because they wanted some form of revenge. They signed for a whole collection of different reasons. And now we all found ourselves overseas fighting in these conflicts. And what was amazing to me was that I very naively started hearing this statement that I never fully understood, because right after 9/11, you start hearing this idea where people come up to you and they say, ""Well, thank you for your service."" And I just kind of followed in and started saying the same things to all my soldiers. This is even before I deployed. But I really had no idea what that even meant. I just said it because it sounded right. I said it because it sounded like the right thing to say to people who had served overseas. ""Thank you for your service."" But I had no idea what the context was or what that even, what it even meant to the people who heard it. When I first came back from Afghanistan, I thought that if you make it back from conflict, then the dangers were all over. I thought that if you made it back from a conflict zone that somehow you could kind of wipe the sweat off your brow and say, ""Whew, I'm glad I dodged that one,"" without understanding that for so many people, as they come back home, the war keeps going. It keeps playing out in all of our minds. It plays out in all of our memories. It plays out in all of our emotions. Please forgive us if we don't like being in big crowds. Please forgive us when we spend one week in a place that has 100 percent light discipline, because you're not allowed to walk around with white lights, because if anything has a white light, it can be seen from miles away, versus if you use little green or little blue lights, they cannot be seen from far away. So please forgive us if out of nowhere, we go from having 100 percent light discipline to then a week later being back in the middle of Times Square, and we have a difficult time adjusting to that. Please forgive us when you transition back to a family who has completely been maneuvering without you, and now when you come back, it's not that easy to fall back into a sense of normality, because the whole normal has changed. I remember when I came back, I wanted to talk to people. I wanted people to ask me about my experiences. I wanted people to come up to me and tell me, ""What did you do?"" I wanted people to come up to me and tell me, ""What was it like? What was the food like? What was the experience like? How are you doing?"" And the only questions I got from people was, ""Did you shoot anybody?"" And those were the ones who were even curious enough to say anything. Because sometimes there's this fear and there's this apprehension that if I say anything, I'm afraid I'll offend, or I'm afraid I'll trigger something, so the common default is just saying nothing. The problem with that is then it feels like your service was not even acknowledged, like no one even cared. ""Thank you for your service,"" and we move on. What I wanted to better understand was what's behind that, and why ""thank you for your service"" isn't enough. The fact is, we have literally 2.6 million men and women who are veterans of Iraq or Afghanistan who are all amongst us. Sometimes we know who they are, sometimes we don't, but there is that feeling, the shared experience, the shared bond where we know that that experience and that chapter of our life, while it might be closed, it's still not over. We think about ""thank you for your service,"" and people say, ""So what does 'thank you for your service' mean to you?"" Well, ""Thank you for your service"" means to me, it means acknowledging our stories, asking us who we are, understanding the strength that so many people, so many people who we serve with, have, and why that service means so much. ""Thank you for your service"" means acknowledging the fact that just because we've now come home and we've taken off the uniform does not mean our larger service to this country is somehow over. The fact is, there's still a tremendous amount that can be offered and can be given. When I look at people like our friend Taylor Urruela, who in Iraq loses his leg, had two big dreams in his life. One was to be a soldier. The other was to be a baseball player. He loses his leg in Iraq. He comes back and instead of deciding that, well, now since I've lost my leg, that second dream is over, he decides that he still has that dream of playing baseball, and he starts this group called VETSports, which now works with veterans all over the country and uses sports as a way of healing. People like Tammy Duckworth, who was a helicopter pilot and with the helicopter that she was flying, you need to use both your hands and also your legs to steer, and her helicopter gets hit, and she's trying to steer the chopper, but the chopper's not reacting to her instructions and to her commands. She's trying to land the chopper safely, but the chopper doesn't land safely, and the reason it's not landing safely is because it's not responding to the commands that her legs are giving because her legs were blown off. She barely survives. Medics come and they save her life, but then as she's doing her recuperation back at home, she realizes that, ""My job's still not done."" And now she uses her voice as a Congresswoman from Illinois to fight and advocate for a collection of issues to include veterans issues. We signed up because we love this country we represent. We signed up because we believe in the idea and we believe in the people to our left and to our right. And the only thing we then ask is that ""thank you for your service"" needs to be more than just a quote break, that ""thank you for your service"" means honestly digging in to the people who have stepped up simply because they were asked to, and what that means for us not just now, not just during combat operations, but long after the last vehicle has left and after the last shot has been taken. These are the people who I served with, and these are the people who I honor. So thank you for your service. (Applause)"	很興奮能來這裡談退伍軍人，因為我沒有為了想上戰場而從軍。我從軍不是因為我渴望或需要出國打仗。坦白說，我從軍是因為唸大學貴得要命，他們想幫我；我從軍是因為我當時只知道這條路，我當時認為我能做得很好。 我並非來自軍人家庭。我不是軍人子弟。我們家族根本沒人從軍過，我首次和軍方接觸是在 13 歲的時候，我被送到軍校，因為我媽從我八歲就開始就威脅要送我去唸軍校。 我長大期間有些狀況，我媽老是說：「如果你不振作起來，我就送你去唸軍校。」我會看著她，然後說：「媽咪，我會更努力。」到我九歲時，她開始給我一些小冊子，讓我知道她是來真的，我會看著小冊子說：「媽咪，我知道你是認真的，我會更努力一點。」然後在我 10 到 11 歲時，我的行為變得更偏差。我被留校查看的時候還沒滿 10 歲；我的手腕第一次被上手銬是在 11 歲的時候。到了 13 歲，我媽跟我說：「我不幹了。我要送你去軍校。」我看著她說：「媽咪，我看得出來你很難過，我會更努力。」她說：「不，你下星期就得去。」那是我第一次接觸和軍方有關的事，因為她覺得這是個好主意。 剛進去時，我打從心底認為她的想法大錯特錯，因為基本上，在頭四天我就已經逃學五次了。那裡有些黑色大門環繞校園，每次他們都會轉身，我只要從那黑色大門跑出去，如果我們不想待在那，只要抓緊機會，隨時都能離開。因此我想：「好吧，如果是那樣的話，那我就會離開。」（笑聲）結果從沒成功。我一直迷路。 終於，我在那待了一陣子，在這間軍校待滿一整年後，我發現自己真的長大了。我發現自己待在這間學校很愉快，而喜歡這地方是我從未察覺的事：我終於感到自己歸屬於某個更大的地方，屬於一個團隊，其實和我同在的人們有關，事實上在那裡領導不只是美好的結局，而是一種真實的事，其實是整個經驗的核心，因此當我高中快畢業的時候，我開始思考自己想做什麼，就像大部分的學生一樣，我沒什麼想法，也不知道要做什麼。我想了想自己尊敬和欽佩的對象。我想了很多人，尤其是許多我在生活中景仰的對象。他們剛好都穿代表美國的制服，因此對我來說，問題的答案變得顯而易見。我想做什麼的問題很快就有了答案，我想當軍官。 因此軍隊開始讓我受訓，我說我沒有因為想上戰場而從軍，其實我在 1996 年時從軍了。其實當時也沒多少戰爭，我從不覺得自己身在險境。我 17 歲第一次從軍時去找了我媽，基本上我需要家長同意才能從軍，所以我把文件交給我媽，然後她只是把那看做是軍校資料。她說：「這以前還蠻管用的，就讓他繼續下去吧。」她完全沒概念自己要簽的文件其實是讓她兒子成為一名軍官。我完成手續後，只是一心想著，這太棒了，也許我會在週末服役，或是一整年操練兩週。然而在我登記入伍幾年後，在我媽簽署那些文件幾年後，世界完全變了。在 911 之後，我所選擇的職業已有全然不同的環境背景。我首次入伍時，從沒打算要上戰場，但當我入伍後，那是無可避免的事。 我想了很多關於自己未來得要帶領的士兵。我記得第一次，就在 911 之後，911 的三週後，我在飛機上正要出國，但我不是和軍隊一起出國，我是因為拿到了獎學金才要出國。我拿到獎學金出國，準備要在國外唸書和居住，我當時住在英國，那裡很有趣，但同時，和我一起受訓的人，和我一起受訓的所有士兵，我們原本都準備上戰場，他們其實正在路上。他們會發現自己正在前往某個地方的半路上，其實大部分的人，我們大部分接受訓練的人都無法指出要去地圖上的哪個地方。我花了幾年唸完研究所，這段期間，我坐在牛津大學的教室裡，基本上這些建築都是數百年前建造，甚至比美國建立還早，我坐在那裡和師長討論法蘭茲．斐迪南大公被刺殺的事，以及這件事如何引發第一次世界大戰，我在那裡的所有時間，心思都在士兵身上，他們匆忙穿上克維拉防彈裝備，抓著防彈背心，然後確認我轉換的確切位置，或是我如何在黑暗之中清理槍械。那是新的現實。 到我完成學業、回到軍隊時，我們已準備好部署前進阿富汗，在我單位上的士兵現正進行第二、三次的部署，我連一次都還沒去過。我記得首次和組員走出去時，當你從軍後，你參與一場戰役，每個人都會看你的肩膀，因為你肩上有隊徽。因此，只要你和人見面，你和他們握手，那麼你的眼睛就會落到他們肩上，因為你想看他們在哪服役，或是他們屬於哪個單位？我是唯一肩上空無一物的人。每次有人盯著看，我都覺得很尷尬。 但是你有機會和你的士兵對話，你問他們為什麼要從軍。我從軍是因為大學學費很貴。許多士兵從軍是出於完全不同的原因。他們從軍，是因為一種責任感。他們從軍，是因為他們很生氣，他們想要做點什麼。他們從軍，是因為他們的家人說這很重要。他們從軍，是因為他們想要報仇。他們從軍是出於各式各樣的原因。而現在，我們都發現自己都在國外打這些仗。 讓我驚訝的是，我開始天真地聽進這種言論，我從未完全了解的言論，因為在 911 之後，你會開始碰到有人過來對你說：「謝謝你的服務。」之後我做一樣的事，開始對我的士兵說同樣的話。這件事甚至在我被派上戰場前。但我其實不懂那是什麼意思。我只是照著說，因為聽起來沒錯。我說是因為那聽起來像該對曾在海外服役者說的話。「謝謝你的服務。」但是我對這話的內容沒概念，甚至，甚至對那些聽到的人來說是什麼意思都不知道。 當我第一次從阿富汗回來，我想如果你從戰場上順利回來，那所有的危險就都結束了。我想如果你成功從戰區回來，你多少有資格可以擦掉額頭上的汗水說：「呼，真高興我逃過一劫。」卻沒想到對許多人來說，他們回了家，戰爭還是持續進行。戰爭在我們的心裡仍繼續上演。戰爭在我們的記憶中仍繼續上演。戰爭在我們的情緒中上演。請原諒我們，若是我們不想待在大批人潮裡。請原諒我們，如果我們花了一個星期待在有燈光管制的地方，那是因為你不准走在白光底下，因為如果有白光，在幾哩外就能被看見，相較之下如果你用小綠燈，或是小藍燈，在遠處就不會被看見。因此請原諒我們，如果突然間，我們從一個到處有燈光管制的地方，一個星期後回到時代廣場中央，我們會很難適應。請原諒我們，當你回到家裡，這個家的運作已經完全習慣沒有你，而當你現在回來了，要回到正常的感覺不太容易，因為正常的意義早已完全改變。 我記得當我回來時，我想找人說話。我希望有人問問我的經歷。我希望有人來問我：「你是做什麼的？」我希望有人來問我：「那是什麼樣子？食物嘗起來如何？那經歷是什麼樣子？你還好嗎？」然而我唯一被問到的是：「你有槍殺任何人嗎？」那些人好奇到什麼都會說。因為有時候會有種恐懼和擔心，在我說了之後，我怕我會冒犯，或是我怕我會引發什麼，所以通常就只會什麼都不說。問題是那感覺就像是你的服務甚至不值得被表彰，就像根本沒有人在乎一樣。「謝謝你的服務」，然後我們就繼續過日子。我想更了解的是在那背後的東西，還有為什麼「謝謝你的服務」並不足夠。事實上，我們其實有 260 萬名男女是伊拉克或阿富汗回來的退伍軍人，他們就身在我們之中。有時候我們知道他們是誰，有時不然，但是有種感覺，就是在共有的經歷和共有的關係之中，我們知道那種經歷以及我們生命中的那個篇章也許已經停止了，但尚未結束。 我們思考「謝謝你的服務」，人們會說：「『謝謝你的服務』對你有什麼意義？」「謝謝你的服務」對我而言有意義，那代表承認我們的故事，問問我們是誰，了解和我們一起服務的人擁有多強大的力量，以及為什麼這服務如此重要。「謝謝你的服務」代表了承認這件事，只因為我們現在回來了，我們脫下了制服，不代表我們對國家更大的服務已就此結束。事實上，還有無數能夠奉獻與幫忙的事。當我看著人們，像是我們的朋友泰勒．烏魯埃拉，他在伊拉克失去了一隻腳，他在生命中曾有兩個最大的夢想。一個是當軍人，另一項是當棒球員。他在伊拉克失去了腳。回來後，他沒有想既然我失去了腳，第二個夢想也沒了，相反地，他還是有打棒球的夢想，他設立了退伍軍人運動協會，目前在全國各地服務退伍軍人，將運動做為一種治療的方式。像譚美．達克沃斯這樣的人，她曾是直升機駕駛，她操作的直升機需要運用雙手和雙腳來駕駛，但是她的直升機被襲擊，她試著駕駛直升機，但是直升機沒有反應，她的指令和操作無效。她試著安全降落直升機，但是直升機卻降落失敗，會降落失敗的原因不是因為直升機對她雙腳的指令沒有回應，而是因為她的雙腳被炸掉了。她勉強活下來了。軍醫趕來，救了她一命，但她後來在家復健時，她想：「我的工作還沒結束。」現在，她運用她的聲音，擔任伊利諾州的國會眾議員，為許多議題而戰鬥與倡議，其中包含許多退伍軍人的議題。 我們從軍是因為我們愛自己代表的國家。我們從軍是因為我們相信這個理念，以及在我們左右的人。而我們要求的只是「謝謝你的服務」不該只是一句標語，「謝謝你的服務」代表了真誠地服務上門的客人，只因為這些人提出要求，而那對我們的意義不只是現在，不只是在作戰的期間，而是在離開最後一台車之後，在開了最後一槍之後。 這些是和我一起服務的夥伴，這些是我景仰的對象。謝謝你的服務。（掌聲）
