Talk	en	zh-tw
xavier_vilalta_architecture_at_home_in_its_community	"My work focuses on the connection of both thinking about our community life being part of the environment where architecture grows from the natural local conditions and traditions. Today I brought two recent projects as an example of this. Both projects are in emerging countries, one in Ethiopia and another one in Tunisia. And also they have in common that the different analyses from different perspectives becomes an essential part of the final piece of architecture. The first example started with an invitation to design a multistory shopping mall in Ethiopia's capital city Addis Ababa. And this is the type of building we were shown as an example, to my team and myself, of what we had to design. At first, the first thing I thought was, I want to run away. (Laughter) After seeing a few of these buildings — there are many in the city — we realized that they have three very big points. First, these buildings, they are almost empty because they have very large shops where people cannot afford to buy things. Second, they need tons of energy to perform because of the skin treatment with glass that creates heat in the inside, and then you need a lot of cooling. In a city where this shouldn't happen because they have really mild weather that ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year. And third is that their image has nothing to do with Africa and with Ethiopia. It is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions. Also during our first visit to Ethiopia, I was really captivated by the old merkato that is this open-air structure where thousands of people, they go and buy things every day from small vendors. And also it has this idea of the public space that uses the outdoors to create activity. So I thought, this is what I really want to design, not a shopping mall. But the question was how we could do a multistory, contemporary building with these principles. The next challenge was when we looked at the site, that is, in a really growing area of the city, where most of these buildings that you see in the image, they were not there. And it's also between two parallel streets that don't have any connection for hundreds of meters. So the first thing we did was to create a connection between these two streets, putting all the entrances of the building. And this extends with an inclined atrium that creates an open-air space in the building that self-protects itself with its own shape from the sun and the rain. And around this void we placed this idea of the market with small shops, that change in each floor because of the shape of the void. I also thought, how to close the building? And I really wanted to find a solution that would respond to the local climate conditions. And I started thinking about the textile like a shell made of concrete with perforations that would let the air in, and also the light, but in a filtered way. And then the inspiration came from these beautiful  patterns of the Ethiopian women's dresses. That they have fractal geometry properties and this helped me to shape the whole facade. And we are building that with these small prefabricated pieces that are the windows that let the air and the light in a controlled way inside the building. And this is complemented by these small colored glasses that use the light from the inside of the building to light up the building at night. With these ideas it was not easy first to convince the developers because they were like, ""This is not a shopping mall. We didn't ask for that."" But then we all realized that this idea of the market happened to be a lot more profitable than the idea of the shopping mall because basically they had more shops to sell. And also that the idea of the facade was much, much cheaper, not only because of the material compared with the glass, but also because we didn't need to have air conditioning anymore. So we created some budget savings that we used to implement the project. And the first implementation was to think about how we could make the building self-sufficient in terms of energy in a city that has electricity cuts almost every day. So we created a huge asset by placing photovoltaics there on the roof. And then under those panels we thought about the roof like a new public space with gathering areas and bars that would create this urban oasis. And these porches on the roof, all together they collect the water to reuse for sanitation on the inside. Hopefully by the beginning of next year, because we are already on the fifth floor of the construction. The second example is a master plan of 2,000 apartments and facilities in the city of Tunis. And for doing such a big project, the biggest project I've ever designed, I really needed to understand the city of Tunis, but also its surroundings and the tradition and culture. During that analysis I paid special attention to the medina that is this 1,000-year-old structure that used to be closed by a wall, opened by twelve different gates, connected by almost straight lines. When I went to the site, the first design operation we did was to extend the existing streets, creating 12 initial blocks similar in size and characteristics to the ones we have in Barcelona and other cities in Europe with these courtyards. On top of that, we selected some strategic points reminded of this idea of the gates and connecting them by straight lines, and this modified this initial pattern. And the last operation was to think about the cell, the small cell of the project, like the apartment, as an essential part of the master plan. And for that I thought, what would be the best orientation in the Mediterranean climate for an apartment? And it's north-south, because it creates a thermal difference between both sides of the house and then a natural ventilation. So we overlap a pattern that makes sure that most of the apartments are perfectly oriented in that direction. And this is the result that is almost like a combination of the European block and the Arab city. It has these blocks with courtyards, and then on the ground floor you have all these connections for the pedestrians. And also it responds to the local regulations that establish a higher density on the upper levels and a lower density on the ground floor. And it also reinforces this idea of the gates. The volume has this connecting shape that shades itself with three different types of apartments and also lets the light go on the ground floor in a very dense neighborhood And in the courtyards there are the different facilities, such as a gym and a kindergarten and close by, a series of commercial [spaces] that bring activity to the ground floor. The roof, which is my favorite space of the project is almost like giving back to the community the space taken by the construction. And it's where all the neighbors, they can go up and socialize, and do activities such as having a two-kilometer run in the morning, jumping from one building to another. These two examples, they have a common approach in the design process. And also, they are in emerging countries where you can see the cities literally growing. In these cities, the impact of architecture in people's lives of today and tomorrow changes the local communities and economies at the same speed as the buildings grow. For this reason, I see even more importance to look at architecture finding simple but affordable solutions that enhance the relationship between the community and the environment and that aim to connect nature and people. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我的工作在於把我們的生活與在地環境連結就如同建築物總是跟在地風俗民情息息相關 今天我要舉兩個例子是最近的建築企劃案兩個企畫案都在兩個新興的國家一個在衣索匹亞另一個在突尼西亞這兩個國家有個相同之處在於其不同的分析與觀點皆變成了建築上極為重要的一環 第一個例子就從接到一個設計案的邀請講起那是一個設計購物中心的案子位於阿地斯阿貝巴（衣索匹亞首都）這個建築物的類型就是我們團隊所收到的範例要把購物中心設計成這樣我看到這個的第一個念頭就是我可以落跑嗎？ (笑聲) 在看過幾個像這樣的範例這種設計在城裡隨處可見我們知道這些設計都有三個特徵第一購物中心內總是很冷清因為裡面都是非常大的店面一般民眾買不起裡面的東西第二裡面需要相當大的電力供應因為玻璃帷幕會使內部溫度升高因此需要裝設大量空調這不應該發生在這個城市因為當地的氣候非常涼爽年均溫只有攝氏20-25度第三這些建築物的外觀設計跟非洲或衣索匹亞都毫無關係這對於一個擁有豐富文化與傳統的地方來說實在非常可惜 我們首次造訪衣索匹亞時我對於老莫卡托尤其喜愛那是一個開放式結構每天都有幾千人進去跟小攤販買東西這就是運用公共場所的想法用開放空間創造商機我想這就是我真正想設計的東西而不是一個購物中心但問題在於怎麼把這些原則運用在一個多樓層的現代建築 另一個挑戰是我們去看建築地時當然 是在城市裡非常繁榮的地方大部分建築就跟照片裡一樣不在那邊它也在兩條平行路之間兩條路在幾公里內都無相交 我們第一項要做的事就是讓兩條路有交點讓建築物到處都有入口可進出使建築有一個傾斜的天井就成了一個開放空間這種造型設計也達到了遮陽擋雨的目的在此天井周圍能設置很多的小攤販此造型也讓每層樓都有不同風貌 我又再想怎麼關閉這棟建築？我很想找出個方法迎合當地的天氣狀況我想到用布料在貝殼狀的建築物外穿孔能讓空氣進入陽光也能進入 但不是直射靈感來自於衣索匹亞婦女服飾上那些漂亮的鈕釦那是一些幾何圖形幫助我想出了外牆的設計我們只是建造出有一些預製構件的東西就是讓空氣與陽光以被控制的方式進入建築也補充一些彩色玻璃讓建築在晚上藉由內部的亮光讓建築在晚上發亮 這些想法一開始很難說服那些建商因為他們只想說「這不是購物中心！我們沒要你這樣搞啊！」但最後我們都了解這類型的市場比購物中心來得賺錢因為這基本上能容納較多的店家也因為外牆設計省了非常多的錢不只是因為省去玻璃帷幕的關係也因為裡面完全用不著吹冷氣藉由實行這些方法這就省下了不少預算 第一個成就就是怎麼讓建築自供電力因為城裡幾乎每天都有斷電措施所以我們在屋頂設置相當多的太陽能板在那些太陽能板下面能增加一個新的公共場所一個聚會場所或是酒吧這能造就一個都市綠洲而這些頂樓的入口能收集水並讓內部的公共衛生設施重複利用我們極有希望在明年初就能完工因為進度已經建到了第五層樓 第二個例子是一個總體設計在突尼斯市的兩千戶公寓做這個非常大的企劃案事實上是我接過最大的企劃案我需要非常了解突尼斯這個城市不管是周圍的事物或是當地的傳統與文化 在分析過程中我對麥地那有很特別的印象那是一個用城牆包覆住的結構已有上千年歷史有12個不同的大門幾乎是用直線連接當我去到當地第一件要做的就是拓寬街道，造出12個基礎模塊相同大小與特性跟巴塞隆納的一樣在歐洲其他城市也有的庭院我們做了幾個關鍵要點有了大門用直線聯結的啟發這更改了最初的格局 最後的工作就是那些房間就像是公寓裡的小房間是這個企劃最重要的環節對於這個我一直想什麼是最能適應地中海型氣候的公寓？南北向的房子讓室內前後溫度不均并帶來自然的通風所以我們修改了部分格局確保大部分公寓都是面對好的方位 這就是成果這就像是結合了歐洲與阿拉伯風格的城市在中庭有這種街道在底層行人都能暢行無阻這也迎合了當地的規矩就是高樓層較多住戶低樓層則較少住戶這也在大門加強了這種概念 這空間的形狀也替三種不同的公寓遮陰也能讓陽光透過非常密集的公寓群在中庭有不同的設施例如健身房和幼稚園在低樓層附近也有商業空間帶來商機屋頂是我最喜歡的部分那就像是還給社區被建築佔去的空間也提供住戶一個社交的場所或是能在上頭做兩公里的晨跑也能在每棟房子間跳來跳去 這兩個例子都有相同的設計方法也同樣存在於正在成長的新興城市在這些城市建築影響著人們的生活改變了在地社區與經濟與建築一起成長就因為這幾個原因讓我覺得尋找簡單又經濟的方法是非常重要的目的在於加強社區與環境的聯結講人類與自然聯繫在一起 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
