Talk	en	zh-tw
yanis_varoufakis_capitalism_will_eat_democracy_unless_we_speak_up	"Democracy. In the West, we make a colossal mistake taking it for granted. We see democracy not as the most fragile of flowers that it really is, but we see it as part of our society's furniture. We tend to think of it as an intransigent given. We mistakenly believe that capitalism begets inevitably democracy. It doesn't. Singapore's Lee Kuan Yew and his great imitators in Beijing have demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that it is perfectly possible to have a flourishing capitalism, spectacular growth, while politics remains democracy-free. Indeed, democracy is receding in our neck of the woods, here in Europe. Earlier this year, while I was representing Greece — the newly elected Greek government — in the Eurogroup as its Finance Minister, I was told in no uncertain terms that our nation's democratic process — our elections — could not be allowed to interfere with economic policies that were being implemented in Greece. At that moment, I felt that there could be no greater vindication of Lee Kuan Yew, or the Chinese Communist Party, indeed of some recalcitrant friends of mine who kept telling me that democracy would be banned if it ever threatened to change anything. Tonight, here, I want to present to you an economic case for an authentic democracy. I want to ask you to join me in believing again that Lee Kuan Yew, the Chinese Communist Party and indeed the Eurogroup are wrong in believing that we can dispense with democracy — that we need an authentic, boisterous democracy. And without democracy, our societies will be nastier, our future bleak and our great, new technologies wasted. Speaking of waste, allow me to point out an interesting paradox that is threatening our economies as we speak. I call it the twin peaks paradox. One peak you understand — you know it, you recognize it — is the mountain of debts that has been casting a long shadow over the United States, Europe, the whole world. We all recognize the mountain of debts. But few people discern its twin. A mountain of idle cash belonging to rich savers and to corporations, too terrified to invest it into the productive activities that can generate the incomes from which you can extinguish the mountain of debts and which can produce all those things that humanity desperately needs, like green energy. Now let me give you two numbers. Over the last three months, in the United States, in Britain and in the Eurozone, we have invested, collectively, 3.4 trillion dollars on all the wealth-producing goods — things like industrial plants, machinery, office blocks, schools, roads, railways, machinery, and so on and so forth. $3.4 trillion sounds like a lot of money until you compare it to the $5.1 trillion that has been slushing around in the same countries, in our financial institutions, doing absolutely nothing during the same period except inflating stock exchanges and bidding up house prices. So a mountain of debt and a mountain of idle cash form twin peaks,  failing to cancel each other out through the normal operation of the markets. The result is stagnant wages, more than a quarter of 25- to 54-year-olds in America, in Japan and in Europe out of work. And consequently, low aggregate demand, which in a never-ending cycle, reinforces the pessimism of the investors, who, fearing low demand, reproduce it by not investing — exactly like Oedipus' father, who, terrified by the prophecy of the oracle that his son would grow up to kill him, unwittingly engineered the conditions that ensured that Oedipus, his son, would kill him. This is my quarrel with capitalism. Its gross wastefulness, all this idle cash, should be energized to improve lives, to develop human talents, and indeed to finance all these technologies, green technologies, which are absolutely essential for saving planet Earth. Am I right in believing that democracy might be the answer? I believe so, but before we move on, what do we mean by democracy? Aristotle defined democracy as the constitution in which the free and the poor, being in the majority, control government. Now, of course Athenian democracy excluded too many. Women, migrants and, of course, the slaves. But it would be a mistake to dismiss the significance of ancient Athenian democracy on the basis of whom it excluded. What was more pertinent, and continues to be so about ancient Athenian democracy, was the inclusion of the working poor, who not only acquired the right to free speech, but more importantly, crucially, they acquired the rights to political judgments that were afforded equal weight in the decision-making concerning matters of state. Now, of course, Athenian democracy didn't last long. Like a candle that burns brightly, it burned out quickly. And indeed, our liberal democracies today do not have their roots in ancient Athens. They have their roots in the Magna Carta, in the 1688 Glorious Revolution, indeed in the American constitution. Whereas Athenian democracy was focusing on the masterless citizen and empowering the working poor, our liberal democracies are founded on the Magna Carta tradition, which was, after all, a charter for masters. And indeed, liberal democracy only surfaced when it was possible to separate fully the political sphere from the economic sphere, so as to confine the democratic process fully in the political sphere, leaving the economic sphere — the corporate world, if you want — as a democracy-free zone. Now, in our democracies today, this separation of the economic from the political sphere, the moment it started happening, it gave rise to an inexorable, epic struggle between the two, with the economic sphere colonizing the political sphere, eating into its power. Have you wondered why politicians are not what they used to be? It's not because their DNA has degenerated. (Laughter) It is rather because one can be in government today and not in power, because power has migrated from the political to the economic sphere, which is separate. Indeed, I spoke about my quarrel with capitalism. If you think about it, it is a little bit like a population of predators, that are so successful in decimating the prey that they must feed on, that in the end they starve. Similarly, the economic sphere has been colonizing and cannibalizing the political sphere to such an extent that it is undermining itself, causing economic crisis. Corporate power is increasing, political goods are devaluing, inequality is rising, aggregate demand is falling and CEOs of corporations are too scared to invest the cash of their corporations. So the more capitalism succeeds in taking the demos out of democracy, the taller the twin peaks and the greater the waste of human resources and humanity's wealth. Clearly, if this is right, we must reunite the political and economic spheres and better do it with a demos being in control, like in ancient Athens except without the slaves or the exclusion of women and migrants. Now, this is not an original idea. The Marxist left had that idea 100 years ago and it didn't go very well, did it? The lesson that we learned from the Soviet debacle is that only by a miracle will the working poor be reempowered, as they were in ancient Athens, without creating new forms of brutality and waste. But there is a solution: eliminate the working poor. Capitalism's doing it by replacing low-wage workers with automata, androids, robots. The problem is that as long as the economic and the political spheres are separate, automation makes the twin peaks taller, the waste loftier and the social conflicts deeper, including — soon, I believe — in places like China. So we need to reconfigure, we need to reunite the economic and the political spheres, but we'd better do it by democratizing the reunified sphere, lest we end up with a surveillance-mad hyperautocracy that makes The Matrix, the movie, look like a documentary. (Laughter) So the question is not whether capitalism will survive the technological innovations it is spawning. The more interesting question is whether capitalism will be succeeded by something resembling a Matrix dystopia or something much closer to a Star Trek-like society, where machines serve the humans and the humans expend their energies exploring the universe and indulging in long debates about the meaning of life in some ancient, Athenian-like, high tech agora. I think we can afford to be optimistic. But what would it take, what would it look like to have this Star Trek-like utopia, instead of the Matrix-like dystopia? In practical terms, allow me to share just briefly, a couple of examples. At the level of the enterprise, imagine a capital market, where you earn capital as you work, and where your capital follows you from one job to another, from one company to another, and the company — whichever one you happen to work at at that time — is solely owned by those who happen to work in it at that moment. Then all income stems from capital, from profits, and the very concept of wage labor becomes obsolete. No more separation between those who own but do not work in the company and those who work but do not own the company; no more tug-of-war between capital and labor; no great gap between investment and saving; indeed, no towering twin peaks. At the level of the global political economy, imagine for a moment that our national currencies have a free-floating exchange rate, with a universal, global, digital currency, one that is issued by the International Monetary Fund, the G-20, on behalf of all humanity. And imagine further that all international trade is denominated in this currency — let's call it ""the cosmos,"" in units of cosmos — with every government agreeing to be paying into a common fund a sum of cosmos units proportional to the country's trade deficit, or indeed to a country's trade surplus. And imagine that that fund is utilized to invest in green technologies, especially in parts of the world where investment funding is scarce. This is not a new idea. It's what, effectively, John Maynard Keynes proposed in 1944 at the Bretton Woods Conference. The problem is that back then, they didn't have the technology to implement it. Now we do, especially in the context of a reunified political-economic sphere. The world that I am describing to you is simultaneously libertarian, in that it prioritizes empowered individuals, Marxist, since it will have confined to the dustbin of history the division between capital and labor, and Keynesian, global Keynesian. But above all else, it is a world in which we will be able to imagine an authentic democracy. Will such a world dawn? Or shall we descend into a Matrix-like dystopia? The answer lies in the political choice that we shall be making collectively. It is our choice, and we'd better make it democratically. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Yanis ... It was you who described yourself in your bios as a libertarian Marxist. What is the relevance of Marx's analysis today? Yanis Varoufakis: Well, if there was any relevance in what I just said, then Marx is relevant. Because the whole point of reunifying the political and economic is — if we don't do it, then technological innovation is going to create such a massive fall in aggregate demand, what Larry Summers refers to as secular stagnation. With this crisis migrating from one part of the world, as it is now, it will destabilize not only our democracies, but even the emerging world that is not that keen on liberal democracy. So if this analysis holds water, then Marx is absolutely relevant. But so is Hayek, that's why I'm a libertarian Marxist, and so is Keynes, so that's why I'm totally confused. (Laughter) BG: Indeed, and possibly we are too, now. (Laughter) (Applause) YV: If you are not confused, you are not thinking, OK? BG: That's a very, very Greek philosopher kind of thing to say — YV: That was Einstein, actually — BG: During your talk you mentioned Singapore and China, and last night at the speaker dinner, you expressed a pretty strong opinion about how the West looks at China. Would you like to share that? YV: Well, there's a great degree of hypocrisy. In our liberal democracies, we have a semblance of democracy. It's because we have confined, as I was saying in my talk, democracy to the political sphere, while leaving the one sphere where all the action is — the economic sphere — a completely democracy-free zone. In a sense, if I am allowed to be provocative, China today is closer to Britain in the 19th century. Because remember, we tend to associate liberalism with democracy — that's a mistake, historically. Liberalism, liberal, it's like John Stuart Mill. John Stuart Mill was particularly skeptical about the democratic process. So what you are seeing now in China is a very similar process to the one that we had in Britain during the Industrial Revolution, especially the transition from the first to the second. And to be castigating China for doing that which the West did in the 19th century, smacks of hypocrisy. BG: I am sure that many people here are wondering about your experience as the Finance Minister of Greece earlier this year. YV: I knew this was coming. BG: Yes. BG: Six months after, how do you look back at the first half of the year? YV: Extremely exciting, from a personal point of view, and very disappointing, because we had an opportunity to reboot the Eurozone. Not just Greece, the Eurozone. To move away from the complacency and the constant denial that there was a massive — and there is a massive architectural fault line going through the Eurozone, which is threatening, massively, the whole of the European Union process. We had an opportunity on the basis of the Greek program — which by the way, was the first program to manifest that denial — to put it right. And, unfortunately, the powers in the Eurozone, in the Eurogroup, chose to maintain denial. But you know what happens. This is the experience of the Soviet Union. When you try to keep alive an economic system that architecturally cannot survive, through political will and through authoritarianism, you may succeed in prolonging it, but when change happens it happens very abruptly and catastrophically. BG: What kind of change are you foreseeing? YV: Well, there's no doubt that if we don't change the architecture of the Eurozone, the Eurozone has no future. BG: Did you make any mistakes when you were Finance Minister? YV: Every day. BG: For example? YV: Anybody who looks back — (Applause) No, but seriously. If there's any Minister of Finance, or of anything else for that matter, who tells you after six months in a job, especially in such a stressful situation, that they have made no mistake, they're dangerous people. Of course I made mistakes. The greatest mistake was to sign the application for the extension of a loan agreement in the end of February. I was imagining that there was a genuine interest on the side of the creditors to find common ground. And there wasn't. They were simply interested in crushing our government, just because they did not want to have to deal with the architectural fault lines that were running through the Eurozone. And because they didn't want to admit that for five years they were implementing a catastrophic program in Greece. We lost one-third of our nominal GDP. This is worse than the Great Depression. And no one has come clean from the troika of lenders that have been imposing this policy to say, ""This was a colossal mistake."" BG: Despite all this, and despite the aggressiveness of the discussion, you seem to be remaining quite pro-European. YV: Absolutely. Look, my criticism of the European Union and the Eurozone comes from a person who lives and breathes Europe. My greatest fear is that the Eurozone will not survive. Because if it doesn't, the centrifugal forces that will be unleashed will be demonic, and they will destroy the European Union. And that will be catastrophic not just for Europe but for the whole global economy. We are probably the largest economy in the world. And if we allow ourselves to fall into a route of the postmodern 1930's, which seems to me to be what we are doing, then that will be detrimental to the future of Europeans and non-Europeans alike. BG: We definitely hope you are wrong on that point. Yanis, thank you for coming to TED. YV: Thank you. (Applause)"	民主。在西方社會，我們犯了一個巨大的錯誤，視其為理所當然。我們並非將民主視為最易凋零的花朵，其實它是如此脆弱，卻將其視為我們社會的家具。我們常認為民主是既有的賦予。我們錯誤地相信資本主義必會孕育出民主。其實不然。 新加坡的李光耀和他在北京的眾偉大模仿者，證據確鑿地闡明了，完全有可能在沒有民主的政治情況下，資本主義能以驚人的速度繁榮起來。事實上，我們附近區域的民主正在退步，就在歐洲。 今年初，我以財政部長身分代表希臘新選舉產生的政府，去歐元集團參加會議。我被明確地告知我們國家的民主進程──我們的選舉──不容干預當時正在希臘實施的經濟政策。那一刻，我感到那是對李光耀，或者對中國共產黨來說一份無上的認證，事實上我一些桀驁不馴的朋友不斷地告訴我，民主會被禁止，當它一旦威脅到要改變現狀。 今晚，在這裡，我希望向你們展示，一個真正民主的經濟案例。我想邀請你們，跟我一起重新相信，李光耀、中國共產黨、還有歐元集團他們都錯了，錯在相信我們可以去掉民主──其實我們需要不折不扣和生機勃勃的民主。沒有民主的話，我們的社會會更糟糕，我們的未來會黯淡，而我們偉大創新的科技會被浪費掉。 說到浪費，請允許我指出一個滿有意思的吊詭之處，它當下就在威脅著我們的經濟。我稱其為雙峰吊詭。第一個高峰你們理解──你們知道，你們認識它──那是一座堆積如山的債務，投射出一道巨大的陰影，籠罩著美國、歐洲，以至全球。我們全都認識這座堆積如山的債務，卻沒有多少人辨識到它有一個雙胞胎。一座堆積如山的閒置現金，歸屬於富有的存款者和企業，過於恐懼而不將其投資在那些可以衍生收入的生產力活動，透過這些活動，可以消弭那座堆積如山的債務，還可以製造出人類亟需的物品，例如環保能源。 現在，讓我向你們展示兩個數字。在過去的三個月裡，在美國、英國和歐元區，我們總共投資了 3.4 兆美元在那些可以創造財富的物品──例如工業廠房、機械、辦公大樓、學校、道路、鐵路、機器，諸如此類。3.4 兆美元聽起來是很大一筆錢，直到你拿去跟在同樣的那些國家裡、就是在我們的金融機構中，閒置的 5.1 兆美元比較，在同樣的時段內，白白的擺放著在那裡，只讓股票市場膨脹，房產價格上漲。 所以一座堆積如山的債務，和一座堆積如山的閒置現金，形成了兩座山峰，不能透過正常的市場運營相互抵銷。 這樣下來，就是薪酬停滯，過四分之一的 25-54 歲的美國人、日本人、和歐洲人沒有工作。隨之而來，造成了總需求的降低，周而復始，加劇了投資者對前景的悲觀，投資者就是怕低需求量，而不再投資──正像伊底帕斯的父親，神諭他會被長大後的兒子所殺，他對此感到害怕，於是在不知不覺間創造了各種條件，導致了自己真的被自己的兒子，伊底帕斯，殺了。 這是我對資本主義有爭議的地方。它那種碩大的浪費，所有閒置的現金，其實應該用於改善人民的生活，發展人類的才能，以及去資助所有的科技，環保科技，這對於拯救地球來說絕對是很重要的。 我相信民主可能就是答案，這信念對嗎？我相信是對的，但在我們繼續談下去之前，我們所說的民主是什麼？亞里斯多德將民主定義為一個體制，在其中，政府是由佔大比數的自由人和窮人來掌控的。 當然，雅典時代的民主把很多人排除在外。女人、移民，當然還有奴隸都排除在外。但是，如果僅僅由於有多少人被排除在外，就否定古老的雅典民主制度其重要性的話，那當然是錯誤的。 古老的雅典民主值得肯定之處，且時至今日仍然受到肯定的，是它包括了貧窮的勞工，他們擁有的不僅是言論自由的權利，更重要、更關鍵的是，他們擁有政治批判的權利，他們在國家事務政策的制定過程中，擁有同等的權利。當然，雅典民主沒有延續下去。就像燃燒得十分明亮的蠟燭，很快就燃燒殆盡。確實，我們當今的自由民主制度並不是源起於古代雅典。他們源起於大憲章、源起於 1688 年的光榮革命、還有源起於美國憲法。雅典民主集中於平民平權，沒有所謂的主人，以及賦予貧窮的勞工權力，我們的自由民主制度卻是建基於大憲章的傳統上，大憲章到底是一份為主人所建立的憲章。確實，自由民主只能在政治領域完全從經濟領域分離時浮現，從而把民主過程限定在政治領域，使經濟領域──你要稱它為企業界也可以──成為一處沒有民主的區域。 現在，我們當今的民主，經濟領域和政治領域的分離，從它開始發生的瞬間，就引發了兩者間無情、史詩般的較量，經濟領域侵佔了政治領域，把政治領域的權力吞噬掉。 你們有沒有想過，為什麼政治人物不再是原來的樣子？這並不是因為他們 DNA 退化了。 （笑聲） 而是因為今天，人雖說是在政府裡面，卻沒有權力，因為權力已經從政治領域轉移到分離了的經濟領域中。 事實上，剛才提到我對資本主義有爭論。如果你們想一想，這有點像一群肉食動物，成功地大批殺害牠們賴以生存的獵物，而最終自己挨餓。 同樣的情況，經濟領域殖民統治並噬食了政治領域，到了一個程度削弱了自己，造成了經濟危機。企業的力量正在增加，政治的產出正在貶值，不平等正在上升，總需求正在降低，企業的總裁都不敢用他們公司的現金進行投資。 資本主義愈是成功地把「民」從「民主」中剔除，兩座山峰也就愈來愈高，人力資源和人類的財富也就更多地被浪費掉了。 情況很清楚，如果這是正確的，我們必須重新把政治和經濟領域團聚起來，更好的是讓人民來掌控，就正如古老的雅典民主，當然要在沒有奴隸，也不把女人和移民排除在外的前提下。 其實，這不是一個新穎的想法。馬克思左派在 100 多年前就已經有這樣的想法，只是不太成功，對不對？ 我們從蘇聯解體吸取到的教訓是，只有奇蹟發生，貧窮的勞工才能被重新賦權，就像古老雅典時代那樣，而不會創造新形式的暴行和浪費。 但有另外的一個解決方案：去掉貧窮的勞工。資本主義正在這樣做，通過自動裝置、機器人來取代低薪的勞工。問題是，只要經濟和政治領域是分離的，自動化只會讓這兩座山峰愈來愈高，浪費會更加巨大，社會矛盾愈形加劇，包括──很快，我相信──會發生在像中國這樣的地方。 因此，我們需要重新配置，我們需要使經濟和政治領域重新統一起來，但是我們最好是將重新統一起來的領域民主化，以免我們最終落入監視狂一樣的超級獨裁政權，讓電影駭客帝國，看起來像是紀錄片。 （笑聲） 所以，問題並不是資本主義能否在在它推動的科技創新中存活下來。更有趣的問題是，資本主義是否會被像是駭客帝國這樣的反烏托邦所取代，或是被更類似於星際迷航的社會取代，由機器來服務人類，人們把精力投放在探索宇宙，且在像古代、雅典時代般的高科技廣場，享受著有關生命意義的冗長辯論。 我想，我們可以樂觀起來。但是像星際迷航一樣的烏托邦，而不是駭客帝國那樣的反烏托邦，創造它需要些什麼呢？誕生後又會是怎麼樣呢？ 從實際方面來說，請容許我簡略地分享一些例子。 在企業層面，試想一個資本市場，在其中你以工作賺取資本，你的資本跟著你，從一個工作到下一個工作，從一家公司到下一家公司，而這家公司──你正巧在那時工作的那家公司──其所有權都歸屬於那時候正巧在那裡工作的人。所有的收益流，從資本，到利潤，以至於最基本的支薪勞工的概念都被廢棄。不在公司工作卻擁有著公司，和在公司工作卻不擁有這間公司，這兩方的人不再有區分，資本和勞動之間，也不再拔河；投資和存款之間，沒有了巨大的缺口；事實上，也不會存在兩座高聳的山峰。 在全球政治經濟層面，現在試想一下，我們的國家貨幣有一個自由浮動的兌換匯率，伴隨著一種全球通用的電子貨幣，由國際貨幣基金組織，二十國集團 G20，代表全人類所發行的貨幣。再進一步想像一下，所有的國際貿易都以這種貨幣計價──我們且稱它為「宇宙幣」，用宇宙幣為單元──每個政府都會同意根據他們國家的貿易逆差，或是根據他們國家的貿易順差，來向一個共同基金投入按比例的宇宙幣。試想這個基金應用於投資在環保科技，尤其是在世界上某些缺乏投資基金的地方。 這不是一個新的主意。實際上，這是約翰‧梅納德‧凱恩斯在 1944 年的布萊頓森林會議上所提出來的。但問題是，在那個時候，他們沒有科技去實現它。現在我們有了，尤其是在一個重新統一的政治和經濟領域背景下。 我向你們描述的這個世界，在同一時間，既是自由主義，因為被賦予權力的個人屬於最優先，也是馬克思主義，因為資本和勞動之間的區分，已被投進於歷史的垃圾箱，還有凱恩斯主義，全球化的凱恩斯主義。最重要的是，它是一個我們能夠想像有真正民主的世界。 這樣的世界有出現的曙光嗎？還是我們會淪落到變成一個駭客帝國般的反烏托邦？答案就在我們要集體做出的政治選擇中。那是我們的選擇，而且我們最好採用民主方式來選。 謝謝。 （鼓掌） 布魯諾‧吉桑尼：雅尼斯…...你在履歷中稱自己為自由派馬克思主義者。馬克思主義的分析與今天的演講有怎樣的相關性呢？ 雅尼斯·瓦魯法克斯：如果我剛剛講的還算中肯，那馬克思主義是相關的。因為重新統一政治和經濟，最歸根究底在於──如果我們不這麼做，那麼科技創新就會促使總需求呈現大幅下跌， 也就是拉瑞‧薩默斯所說的長期性經濟停滯。隨著這個危機從世界某個區域向外擴移，就像現在這樣，它不僅僅會動搖我們的民主國家，也會影響那些不特別熱衷於自由民主的新興國家。如果這個論述成立的話，那麼馬克思主義絕對是相關的。這同時也跟海耶克理論相關，這就是為什麼我是自由派馬克思主義者，同時也還有凱恩斯，這也就是為什麼我連自己都感到糊塗了。 （笑聲） 布：確實是，可能我們現在同樣也很糊塗了。 （笑聲） （鼓掌） 雅：如果你沒有感到糊塗，那你就沒有思考，對吧？ 布：這是非常、非常希臘哲學家的說法── 雅：那其實是愛因斯坦── 布：在你的演講中，你提到了新加坡和中國，還有在昨晚的演講嘉賓晚宴上，你對西方如何看待中國，表達了相當強烈的觀點。你願意分享一下嗎？ 雅：那個嘛，其實是有很大程度的虛偽。在我們自由民主的國家，有一種民主的假象。正如我在演講中所說的，因為我們把民主困囿於政治領域內，而讓另一個領域的所有活動──經濟領域──成為一個完全沒有民主的區域。 在某種意義上，容我比較誇張的說，中國今天就像是 19 世紀的英國。因為要記得，我們傾向串連起自由主義和民主──那是錯誤的，從歷史上來看。自由主義，自由，就像是約翰·史都華·彌爾。約翰·史都華·彌爾對於民主過程尤其抱著懷疑。所以你現在看到中國的發展，就是一個跟英國在工業革命時期非常相似的發展過程，尤其是從第一次工業革命過渡至第二次的那段時期。所以苛責中國在做西方社會 19 世紀做過的事 是很虛偽的。布：我肯定這裡很多人都對你今年初 出任希臘財政部長的經驗感到好奇。 雅：我早知道這個問題會出現。 布：是的。布：在六個月之後的現在， 你如何回顧今年上半年的經歷？雅：從我個人來看，非常興奮，也很失望，因為我們曾經有機會重振歐元區。不只是希臘，是整個歐元區。我們應該放下自滿，我們應該承認歐元區在過去有嚴峻的──直到現在也有嚴峻的建構性失誤，橫亙整個歐元區， 嚴峻地威脅著整個歐盟的進程。建基於希臘的方案，我們曾經有機會──順帶一提，希臘的方案是首個能呈現出建構性失誤，而能夠將失誤撥亂反正的機會。不幸的是，歐元區裡的那些強權，歐元集團裡的那些強權， 選擇了繼續否認這個問題的存在。但是你知道這會導致什麼。那其實就是蘇聯的經驗。當你嘗試要讓在建構上已經無法存活的經濟系統得以繼續存活，透過政治意願和獨裁主義這樣的手段，你也許能夠成功地將它苟延，但是一旦發生轉變的時候， 那會是突如其來，而且是災難性的。 布：你預見到怎樣的轉變呢？雅：嗯，毫無疑問如果我們不改變歐元區的建構， 歐元區看不到未來。 布：當你在做希臘財長的時候有失誤嗎？ 雅：每一天。 布：比方說？雅：任何人回望的時候── （鼓掌）不，我說真的。如果任何財政部長，或是任何與此有相關的人，告訴你說在六個月的任期後，尤其是在這樣高壓的情況下，而他們竟然沒有任何失誤，那他們是危險人物。 當然我有失誤。最大的失誤，就是在 2 月底，簽署了申請延長債務協定的申請書。當時我想像著，債權方是真的由衷尋找一個共識。但其實沒有。他們的主意是要壓逼我們的政府，因為他們就不希望要去處理那橫貫歐元區的建構性失誤。再者，他們也不願意承認，在過去的五年裡他們在希臘實施了災難性的計畫。我們失去了三分之一名目 GDP。這比大蕭條時期更慘烈。三頭馬車一樣的債權人，沒有任何一位 坦白承認實施這樣的政策 其實「是一個巨大的錯誤。」布：除了這些，也除了這些激昂的討論， 你似乎還是比較偏向歐洲一體化的。雅：絕對是的。這要明白，我對歐盟和歐元區的批判來自於一位生活和呼吸著歐洲的個人經驗。我最大的恐懼是歐元區無法存活下去。因為如果歐元區無法存活，那麼離心力就會被釋放出來，如同魔鬼一樣，最終將會摧毀歐盟。那不僅對歐洲，對全球經濟來說 也將會是災難性的。我們可能是世界上最大的經濟體系。如果我們容許自己墮進了後現代1930 年代的那條路，雖然在我看來我們現在就已在那條路上，那對歐洲的未來，和非歐洲國家的未來， 都會是有害的。布：在這點上，我們肯定希望你是錯的。 雅尼斯，謝謝你來到 TED。 雅：謝謝（鼓掌）
