Talk	en	zh-tw
yassmin_abdel_magied_what_does_my_headscarf_mean_to_you	"Someone who looks like me walks past you in the street. Do you think they're a mother, a refugee or a victim of oppression? Or do you think they're a cardiologist, a barrister or maybe your local politician? Do you look me up and down, wondering how hot I must get or if my husband has forced me to wear this outfit? What if I wore my scarf like this? I can walk down the street in the exact same outfit and what the world expects of me and the way I'm treated depends on the arrangement of this piece of cloth. But this isn't going to be another monologue about the hijab because Lord knows, Muslim women are so much more than the piece of cloth they choose, or not, to wrap their head in. This is about looking beyond your bias. What if I walked past you and later on you'd found out that actually I was a race car engineer, and that I designed my own race car and I ran my university's race team, because it's true. What if I told you that I was actually trained as a boxer for five years, because that's true, too. Would it surprise you? Why? Ladies and gentlemen, ultimately, that surprise and the behaviors associated with it are the product of something  called unconscious bias, or implicit prejudice. And that results in the ridiculously detrimental lack of diversity in our workforce, particularly in areas of influence. Hello, Australian Federal Cabinet. (Applause) Let me just set something out from the outset: Unconscious bias is not the same as conscious discrimination. I'm not saying that in all of you,  there's a secret sexist or racist or ageist lurking within,  waiting to get out. That's not what I'm saying. We all have our biases. They're the filters through which we see the world around us. I'm not accusing anyone, bias is not an accusation. Rather, it's something that  has to be identified, acknowledged and mitigated against. Bias can be about race, it can be about gender. It can also be about class, education, disability. The fact is, we all have biases against what's different, what's different to our social norms. The thing is, if we want  to live in a world where the circumstances of your birth do not dictate your future and where equal opportunity is ubiquitous, then each and every one of us has a role to play in making sure unconscious bias does not determine our lives. There's this really famous experiment in the space of unconscious bias and that's in the space of gender in the 1970s and 1980s. So orchestras, back in the day, were made up mostly of dudes, up to only five percent were female. And apparently, that was because men played it differently, presumably better, presumably. But in 1952, The Boston Symphony Orchestra started an experiment. They started blind auditions. So rather than face-to-face auditions, you would have to play behind a screen. Now funnily enough, no immediate change was registered until they asked the audition-ers to take their shoes off before they entered the room. because the clickity-clack  of the heels against the hardwood floors was enough to give the ladies away. Now get this, there results of the audition showed that there was a 50 percent increased chance a woman would progress past the preliminary stage. And it almost tripled  their chances of getting in. What does that tell us? Well, unfortunately for the guys, men actually didn't play differently, but there was the perception that they did. And it was that bias that was determining their outcome. So what we're doing here  is identifying and acknowledging that a bias exists. And look, we all do it. Let me give you an example. A son and his father are in  a horrible car accident. The father dies on impact and the son, who's severely injured, is rushed to hospital. The surgeon looks at the son when they arrive and is like, ""I can't operate."" Why? ""The boy is my son."" How can that be? Ladies and gentlemen, the surgeon is his mother. Now hands up — and it's okay — but hands up if you initially assumed the surgeon was a guy? There's evidence that that unconscious bias exists, but we all just have to acknowledge that it's there and then look at ways  that we can move past it so that we can look at solutions. Now one of the interesting things around the space of unconscious bias is the topic of quotas. And this something  that's often brought up. And of of the criticisms  is this idea of merit. Look, I don't want to be picked  because I'm a chick, I want to be picked because  I have merit, because I'm the best person for the job. It's a sentiment that's pretty common among female engineers that I work with and that I know. And yeah, I get it, I've been there. But, if the merit idea was true, why would identical resumes,  in an experiment done in 2012 by Yale, identical resumes sent out for a lab technician, why would Jennifers be deemed less competent, be less likely to be offered the job, and be paid less than Johns. The unconscious bias is there, but we just have to look at how we can move past it. And, you know, it's interesting, there's some research that talks about why this is the case and it's called the merit paradox. And in organizations — and this is kind of ironic — in organizations that talk about merit being their primary value-driver in terms of who they hire, they were more likely to hire dudes and more likely to pay the guys more because apparently merit  is a masculine quality. But, hey. So you guys think you've got  a good read on me, you kinda think you know what's up. Can you imagine me running one of these? Can you imagine me walking in and being like, ""Hey boys, this is what's up. This is how it's done."" Well, I'm glad you can. (Applause) Because ladies and gentlemen, that's my day job. And the cool thing about it is that it's pretty entertaining. Actually, in places like Malaysia, Muslim women on rigs  isn't even comment-worthy. There are that many of them. But, it is entertaining. I remember, I was telling one of the guys, ""Hey, mate, look, I really want  to learn how to surf."" And he's like, ""Yassmin, I don't know how you can surf with all that gear you've got on, and I don't know any women-only beaches."" And then, the guy came up  with a brilliant idea, he was like, ""I know, you run that organization Youth Without Borders, right? Why don't you start a clothing line for Muslim chicks in beaches. You can call it  Youth Without Boardshorts."" (Laughter) And I was like, ""Thanks, guys."" And I remember another bloke  telling me that I should eat all the yogurt I could because that was the only culture  I was going to get around there. But, the problem is, it's kind of true because there's an intense  lack of diversity in our workforce, particularly in places of influence. Now, in 2010, The Australian National University did an experiment where they sent out 4,000 identical applications to entry level jobs, essentially. To get the same number of interviews as someone with an Anglo-Saxon name, if you were Chinese, you had  to send out 68 percent more applications. If you were Middle Eastern — Abdel-Magied — you had to send out 64 percent, and if you're Italian,  you're pretty lucky, you only have to send out 12 percent more. In places like Silicon Valley, it's not that much better. In Google, they put out  some diversity results and 61 percent white, 30 percent Asian and nine, a bunch of blacks, Hispanics, all that kind of thing. And the rest of the tech world is not that much better and they've acknowledged it, but I'm not really sure what they're doing about it. The thing is, it doesn't trickle up. In a study done by Green Park, who are a British senior exec supplier, they said that over half of the FTSE 100 companies don't have a nonwhite leader at their board level, executive or non-executive. And two out of every three don't have an executive who's from a minority. And most of the minorities  that are at that sort of level are non-executive board directors. So their influence isn't that great. I've told you a bunch of terrible things. You're like, ""Oh my god, how bad is that? What can I do about it?"" Well, fortunately, we've identified that there's a problem. There's a lack of opportunity, and that's due to unconscious bias. But you might be sitting  there thinking, ""I ain't brown. What's that got to do with me?"" Let me offer you a solution. And as I've said before, we live in a world where we're looking for an ideal. And if we want to create a world where the circumstances of your birth don't matter, we all have to be part of the solution. And interestingly, the author of the lab resume experiment offered some sort of a solution. She said the one thing that brought the successful women together, the one thing that they had in common, was the fact that they had good mentors. So mentoring, we've all kind of heard that before, it's in the vernacular. Here's another challenge for you. I challenge each and every one of you to mentor someone different. Think about it. Everyone wants to mentor someone who kind of is familiar, who looks like us, we have shared experiences. If I see a Muslim chick  who's got a bit of attitude, I'm like, ""What's up? We can hang out."" You walk into a room and there's someone who went to the same school, you play the same sports, there's a high chance that you're going to want to help that person out. But for the person in the room who has no shared experiences with you it becomes extremely difficult  to find that connection. The idea of finding someone  different to mentor, someone who doesn't come from the same background as you, whatever that background is, is about opening doors  for people who couldn't even get to the damn hallway. Because ladies and gentlemen, the world is not just. People are not born  with equal opportunity. I was born in one of the poorest cities in the world, Khartoum. I was born brown, I was born female, and I was born Muslim in a world that is pretty suspicious of us for reasons I can't control. However, I also acknowledge the fact that I was born with privilege. I was born with amazing parents, I was given an education and had the blessing of migrating to Australia. But also, I've been blessed with amazing mentors who've opened doors for me  that I didn't even know were there. A mentor who said to me, ""Hey, your story's interesting. Let's write something about it so that I can share it with people."" A mentor who said, ""I know you're all those things that don't belong on an Australian rig, but come on anyway."" And here I am, talking to you. And I'm not the only one. There's all sorts of people in my communities that I see have been helped out by mentors. A young Muslim man in Sydney who ended up using his mentor's help to start up a poetry slam in Bankstown and now it's a huge thing. And he's able to change the lives of so many other young people. Or a lady here in Brisbane, an Afghan lady who's a refugee, who could barely speak English when she came to Australia, her mentors helped her become a doctor and she took our Young Queenslander  of the Year Award in 2008. She's an inspiration. This is so not smooth. This is me. But I'm also the woman in the rig clothes, and I'm also the woman who was in the abaya at the beginning. Would you have chosen to mentor me if you had seen me in one of those other versions of who I am? Because I'm that same person. We have to look past our unconscious bias, find someone to mentor who's at the opposite end of your spectrum because structural change takes time, and I don't have that level of patience. So if we're going to create a change, if we're going to create a world where we all have those kinds of opportunities, then choose to open doors for people. Because you might think that diversity has nothing to do with you, but we are all part of this system and we can all be part of that solution. And if you don't know where to find someone different, go to the places you wouldn't usually go. If you enroll in private high school tutoring, go to your local state school or maybe just drop into your local refugee tutoring center. Or perhaps you work at an office. Take out that new grad who looks totally out of place — 'cause that was me — and open doors for them, not in a tokenistic way, because we're not victims, but show them the opportunities because opening up your world will make you realize that  you have access to doors that they didn't even know existed and you didn't even know they didn't have. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem in our community with lack of opportunity, especially due to unconscious bias. But each and every one one of you has the potential to change that. I know you've been given a lot of challenges today, but if you can take this one piece and think about it a little differently, because diversity is magic. And I encourage you to look past your initial perceptions because I bet you, they're probably wrong. Thank you. (Applause)"	當看見像我一樣的人走在路上，你會想到她們是母親，難民，又或者是某種壓迫的受害人？又或者是心臟病學家，律師，或是當地的政客？你從頭到尾的看我，在猜我會有多熱，是不是我的丈夫強迫我穿這套衣服？如果我將圍巾圍成這樣呢？ 我穿著同樣的衣服走在街上，這個世界對我有什麽期待和它怎麽對待我決定於我如何戴這條圍巾。不過這不是一場有關穆斯林婦女頭巾的獨白，因為上主知道，穆斯林婦女不會受限於一塊她們選擇戴或不戴的頭巾。這是關於超越你的偏見的。 如果我走過你身邊然後你發現我實際上是個賽車工程師，我設計自己的賽車，我也組織了一支大學賽車隊，這是真的。如果我告訴你我是接受了五年專業訓練的拳擊手呢？那也是真的。你會嚇一跳嗎？為什麼？ 各位女士先生，最終這種驚奇和導致的行為都源自於所謂的潛意識偏見，或者叫隱涵的歧視。結果是謊繆地且有害地使我們的勞動力缺少多元性特別是在有影響力的職位。嗨！澳洲聯邦內閣。（掌聲） 讓我從頭開始說明：潛意識偏見有別於有意識的歧視。我不是說你們中間潛伏著秘密的性別歧視者，種族歧視者或年齡歧視者，正伺機逃走。這並不是我要說的。我們都有偏見。我們用它來過濾這個世界。我不是在譴責誰，偏見並不是一種罪名。而是我們需要將它們指出來，承認和改善。偏見可以是種族的，也可以是性別的。也可能是對階級、教育或傷殘的偏見。事實是，我們對於不同的事物以及不同於我們的社會規範都有偏見。 重要的是，如果我們想生活在一個你出生的環境不會主宰你的未來，而且我們每個人都會有平等的機會的世界，不會主宰你的未來，而且我們每個人都會有平等的機會的世界，那麼我們每一個人都需要扮演一個確定潛意識偏見不再左右我們的生命的角色。 在潛意識偏見領域有一個非常有名的實驗。那是在1970，1980年代所做的有關性別歧視實驗。在那個時代，交響樂團大都有男性組成，最多只有5％的女性。顯然，人們都認為男性的技巧不同，大家都假定他們的技巧比較好，大家如此假定。不過在1952年，波士頓交響樂團開始了一個試驗。他們開展了一次盲眼試聽來取代面對面的方式，應徵者在布幕後演奏。有趣的是，男女的錄取比率並沒有改變,直到他們要求應徵者在進場前脫鞋。因為鞋跟踩在木地板的喀嗒聲因為鞋跟踩在木地板的喀嗒聲透露了女士們的性別。你知道嗎，試演的結果顯示，通過初選這一關的女性應徵者增加了百分之五十，通過初選這一關的女性應徵者增加了百分之五十，她們入選的機會差不多增加了三倍。這說明了什麼？不幸地，對男性而言，他們的技巧沒有不一樣，那只是大家對他們的看法而已。那種偏見決定了他們的錄取結果。 我們要做的是找到並且承認這種偏見的存在。我們都有這種偏見。讓我給你一個例子。一對父子遭遇了一場交通意外。父親當場受傷死亡，兒子也受重傷，並被送進了醫院手術醫生看見兒子被送到面前，說：「我不能做手術。」為什麼？「因為他是我的兒子。」這怎麼可能呢？各位女士先生，手術醫生其實是他的母親。請舉手 －－ 沒關係 －－如果你假設手術醫生是個男的，請舉手。這就證明了潛意識偏見的存在，我們必須承認那個個偏見的存在然後我們才會找方法去超越它，這樣我們才可以找到解決方法。[限額還是不限？] 在潛意識偏見的領域的一個有趣的事是有關限額的討論。這經常被拿出來討論，其中一個反對的理由是能力的問題。我不要因為我是女性才被選上，我要因為我的能力被選上，因為我是最適合這個工作的人。有一個在和我一起工作的女性工程師之間相當普遍的觀點，有一個在和我一起工作的女性工程師之間相當普遍的觀點，對，我理解它，因為我就在其中——如果能力的觀點是真的，為什麼耶魯大學2012年的實驗中在同樣的應徵實驗室技術員的履歷表中，為什麼女性被視為比較不勝任，她們比較不可能得到這個工作，她們比男性的薪水低？那是因為潛意識的偏見的原因，但我們只需要看如何能去除它。 有趣的是，一些研究提出為什麼會如此的理由那就是能力悖論。在一些機構裡，這是一種諷刺——那些說能力是他們雇用員工的主要因素的機構——那些說能力是他們雇用員工的主要因素的機構——但他們更可能雇用男性，並且付他們更高的薪水，因為顯然他們所謂的能力是男性。不過，嗯， 所以你們覺得已經充分了解我了，你想你已經知道我要說什麼了。你可以想像我在負責這個嗎？你可以想像我走進來，說：「嗨，男士們，這裡是這樣操作，這兒是這樣做的。」好的，我很高興你可以想像到。（掌聲）各位先生女士，這是我白天的工作。更酷的是，那還是很具娛樂性的。實際上，一些像馬來西亞的地區，操作鉆機的穆斯林婦女並不稀奇。因為她們人數眾多。不過，那是很有趣的。 我記得曾告訴一位男士：「嗨，夥伴，我真的想要學衝浪。」他說：「雅士敏, 我不知道你如何穿著那些衣服去衝浪，他說：「雅士敏, 我不知道你如何穿著那些衣著去衝浪，而且我也不知道哪裡有女性專用海灘。」然後，這個男士想到一個妙極的方法，他說：「對！你在負責那個叫做青春無國界的組織，不是嗎？為什麼你不為穆斯林婦女開發一個沙灘上穿的服裝系列，就叫做’青春不衝浪‘好啦。」（笑聲）於是我回應：「謝謝，夥伴。」我還記得另一個傢伙告訴我，我應該食光所有的酸奶，因為那是我唯一可以在那裡找的特產了。 問題是，好像真是這麽回事，在我們的勞動力實在是嚴重缺乏多元性，尤其是在重要職位上。2010年，澳洲國立大學做了一個實驗，他們投出4000份同樣的申請到初級水平的工作裡。以盎格魯-撒克遜人的名字申請，可得到同等數量的面試機會，可如果你是中國人，你必須寄出額外68％的申請。如果你是中東人，比方说我，你必須寄出額外64％，如果你是義大利人，那你真夠幸運，你只需要寄出額外12％。一些像是矽谷的地方也不會好很多，Google拿出職工的種族佔比數據：61％白人，30％亞洲人和9％的黑人拉美人，如此類推。科技界也不見得更好。他們也承認這個，我不真正肯定他們在做什麽以改善這種狀況。 事情並不是一蹴而就。Green Park的研究顯示，它是英國高級獵頭，他們說超過一半進入富士100指數（富士集團編寫的倫交所100只最受歡迎的股票）的公司不論是執行或非執行董事會，全都是白人。三分之二的公司中，沒有來自少數民族的總經理。大部分的做到較高層的來自少數民族的人，都只是非執行董事，所以他們沒有很大的影響力。 我已經告訴你一大堆可怕的事情，你可能會想：“天啊！怎麼會這樣？我可以做什麼？”幸運的是，我們已經意識到這是個問題。因為潛意識偏見，造成了機會的缺失。不過你可能會坐在一邊想“我不是有色人種，這跟我有什麼關係？”讓我告訴你一個解決方法。如之前所說，我們生活在一個並不理想化的世界，如果我們想創造一個我們不會受出生環境條件影響的世界，我們都需要作出努力。有趣的是，簡歷實驗的作者提供一個解決方法。她說把成功的女性都聚集在一起的一樣事物，她們都擁有的一樣事物，是她們都有一個不錯的導師。 導師，我們都聽過這個詞，通俗易懂。這是另外一個給你的挑戰，我會挑戰在座的每一位去指導幫助一位不同的人。請想一想。每一個人想指導自己熟悉的人。那些長得與我們相像的人，我們有同樣的經歷。如果我看見一個悶悶不樂的穆斯林女生我會說“發生什麼了？我們出去聊聊吧！”你走進一個房間，那裡有和你同一所學校的人，和你在做一樣的體育運動，你會更樂意去幫助他。但對於房間裡的陌生人，沒有同樣經歷，那麼你不會想要幫助他。 去幫助一個與你不同的人，與你背景不一樣的人——就算是任何背景——就跟想要那些緊閉心門的人敞開心扉一樣。就跟想要那些緊閉心門的人敞開心扉一樣。 因為，各位先生女士，世界並不平等。人不是生而就有平等機會。我出生在世界上其中一個最窮的城市 －喀土木（蘇丹首都）。我有咖啡色皮膚，生為女性，生為一個穆斯林，生活在這個出於一些我不能控制的原因而使人們對我們充滿懷疑的世界上。生活在這個出於一些我不能控制的原因而使人們對我們充滿懷疑的世界上。無論如何，我也必須承認一個事實，我出生就帶有特權。我有一對超棒的父母，我有機會接受教育，有機會移民到澳洲的福利。我有幸能有一些出色的導師，一些為我打開了一些未知的門。一位老師告訴我，“嗨，你的故事很有趣。寫一些東西吧，好讓更多人可以分享它。”又有一位老師說：「我知道你看起來和澳洲的鑽井平台沒有一點關係，但那又怎麼樣呢！」現在，我站在這裡，對著你們說話。 而我並非那唯一一個。我的社區裡有我認識許多各類的人曾得到多位導師的幫助。一位在雪梨的穆斯林男子他後來因為一位導師的協助在班克斯開創了一個詩會現在很夯。他因此改變了許多年輕人的生命。另外一位在布里斯班的女士，她是一位來自阿富汗的難民，她到達澳洲時幾乎不會說英語，她的導師幫助她成了一個醫生。她在2008年得到年輕昆士蘭人年度大獎。她是一位啟發者。這不是很順利。 這是我。但我也是那個穿著石油操縱員的衣服的女士，也是那位在開始的時候穿著長袍的女士。你在看到那些穿著的我時，會選擇指導我嗎？你在看到那些穿著的我時，會選擇指導我嗎？我是同一個人。我們必須超越我們的潛意識的偏見，指導那些與我們的生活範圍相反的人。因為社會結構的改變很緩慢，而我沒有那種程度的耐心。所以如果我們要創造變化，如果我們要創造一個所有人都有同樣的機會的世界，我們就要選擇為其他人敞開心門。你可能會認為差異化與你無關，但我們都是這個制度的一部分，因此我們都能成為解決問題的重要一環。 如果你不知道去那裡找和自己不同的人，去你平常不會去的地方。如果你通常是去私立高中做指導老師，就改去當地的公立學校，或許就去當地的難民指導中心。如果你在辦公室工作，那就指導那個完全不知所措的新畢業生 －－因為那就是以前的我 －－為他們打開心門，以循序漸進的方式，因為我們不是受害者，而是向他們指出機會在哪裏，因為藉由打開你的世界，你會了解到你可以打開那些他們從來都不知道存在的門，打開那些甚至你都不知道他們有沒有的大門。 女士和先生們，我們的社區有缺乏機會的問題，特別是由於潛意識的偏見。但你們每一位都有改變這個問題的潛力。我知道我今天給了你們許多挑戰，但如果你可以接受挑戰，做一點不同的思維，因為差異很神奇。我也鼓勵你回顧你的最初的感覺。因為我打賭，那些感覺很可能是錯的。 感謝大家！ (掌聲）
