Talk	en	zh-tw
yves_morieux_how_too_many_rules_at_work_keep_you_from_getting_things_done	"Paul Krugman, the Nobel Prize [winner] in economics, once wrote: ""Productivity is not everything, but in the long run, it is almost everything."" So this is serious. There are not that many things on earth that are ""almost everything."" Productivity is the principal driver of the prosperity of a society. So we have a problem. In the largest European economies, productivity used to grow five percent per annum in the '50s, '60s, early '70s. From '73 to '83: three percent per annum. From '83 to '95: two percent per annum. Since 1995: less than one percent per annum. The same profile in Japan. The same profile in the US, despite a momentary rebound 15 years ago, and despite all the technological innovations around us: the Internet, the information, the new information and communication technologies. When productivity grows three percent per annum, you double the standard of living every generation. Every generation is twice as well-off as its parents'. When it grows one percent per annum, it takes three generations to double the standard of living. And in this process, many people will be less well-off than their parents. They will have less of everything: smaller roofs, or perhaps no roof at all, less access to education, to vitamins, to antibiotics, to vaccination — to everything. Think of all the problems that we're facing at the moment. All. Chances are that they are rooted in the productivity crisis. Why this crisis? Because the basic tenets about efficiency — effectiveness in organizations, in management — have become counterproductive for human efforts. Everywhere in public services — in companies, in the way we work, the way we innovate, invest — try to learn to work better. Take the holy trinity of efficiency: clarity, measurement, accountability. They make human efforts derail. There are two ways to look at it, to prove it. One, the one I prefer, is rigorous, elegant, nice — math. But the full math version takes a little while, so there is another one. It is to look at a relay race. This is what we will do today. It's a bit more animated, more visual and also faster — it's a race. Hopefully, it's faster. (Laughter) World championship final — women. Eight teams in the final. The fastest team is the US team. They have the fastest women on earth. They are the favorite team to win. Notably, if you compare them to an average team, say, the French team, (Laughter) based on their best performances in the 100-meter race, if you add the individual times of the US runners, they arrive at the finish line 3.2 meters ahead of the French team. And this year, the US team is in great shape. Based on their best performance this year, they arrive 6.4 meters ahead of the French team, based on the data. We are going to look at the race. At some point you will see, towards the end, that Torri Edwards, the fourth US runner, is ahead. Not surprising — this year she got the gold medal in the 100-meter race. And by the way, Chryste Gaines, the second runner in the US team, is the fastest woman on earth. So, there are 3.5 billion women on earth. Where are the two fastest? On the US team. And the two other runners on the US team are not bad, either. (Laughter) So clearly, the US team has won the war for talent. But behind, the average team is trying to catch up. Let's watch the race. (Video: French sportscasters narrate race) (Video: Race narration ends) Yves Morieux: So what happened? The fastest team did not win; the slower one did. By the way, I hope you appreciate the deep historical research I did to make the French look good. (Laughter) But let's not exaggerate — it's not archeology, either. (Laughter) But why? Because of cooperation. When you hear this sentence: ""Thanks to cooperation, the whole is worth more than the sum of the parts."" This is not poetry; this is not philosophy. This is math. Those who carry the baton are slower, but their baton is faster. Miracle of cooperation: it multiplies energy, intelligence in human efforts. It is the essence of human efforts: how we work together, how each effort contributes to the efforts of others. With cooperation, we can do more with less. Now, what happens to cooperation when the holy grail — the holy trinity, even — of clarity, measurement, accountability — appears? Clarity. Management reports are full of complaints about the lack of clarity. Compliance audits, consultants' diagnostics. We need more clarity, we need to clarify the roles, the processes. It is as though the runners on the team were saying, ""Let's be clear — where does my role really start and end? Am I supposed to run for 95 meters, 96, 97...?"" It's important, let's be clear. If you say 97, after 97 meters, people will drop the baton, whether there is someone to take it or not. Accountability. We are constantly trying to put accountability in someone's hands. Who is accountable for this process? We need somebody accountable for this process. So in the relay race, since passing the baton is so important, then we need somebody clearly accountable for passing the baton. So between each runner, now we will have a new dedicated athlete, clearly dedicated to taking the baton from one runner, and passing it to the next runner. And we will have at least two like that. Well, will we, in that case, win the race? That I don't know, but for sure, we would have a clear interface, a clear line of accountability. We will know who to blame. But we'll never win the race. If you think about it, we pay more attention to knowing who to blame in case we fail, than to creating the conditions to succeed. All the human intelligence put in organization design — urban structures, processing systems — what is the real goal? To have somebody guilty in case they fail. We are creating organizations able to fail, but in a compliant way, with somebody clearly accountable when we fail. And we are quite effective at that — failing. Measurement. What gets measured gets done. Look, to pass the baton, you have to do it at the right time, in the right hand, at the right speed. But to do that, you have to put energy in your arm. This energy that is in your arm will not be in your legs. It will come at the expense of your measurable speed. You have to shout early enough to the next runner when you will pass the baton, to signal that you are arriving, so that the next runner can prepare, can anticipate. And you have to shout loud. But the blood, the energy that will be in your throat will not be in your legs. Because you know, there are eight people shouting at the same time. So you have to recognize the voice of your colleague. You cannot say, ""Is it you?"" Too late! (Laughter) Now, let's look at the race in slow motion, and concentrate on the third runner. Look at where she allocates her efforts, her energy, her attention. Not all in her legs — that would be great for her own speed — but in also in her throat, arm, eye, brain. That makes a difference in whose legs? In the legs of the next runner. But when the next runner runs super-fast, is it because she made a super effort, or because of the way the third runner passed the baton? There is no metric on earth that will give us the answer. And if we reward people on the basis of their measurable performance, they will put their energy, their attention, their blood in what can get measured — in their legs. And the baton will fall and slow down. To cooperate is not a super effort, it is how you allocate your effort. It is to take a risk, because you sacrifice the ultimate protection granted by objectively measurable individual performance. It is to make a super difference in the performance of others, with whom we are compared. It takes being stupid to cooperate, then. And people are not stupid; they don't cooperate. You know, clarity, accountability, measurement were OK when the world was simpler. But business has become much more complex. With my teams, we have measured the evolution of complexity in business. It is much more demanding today to attract and retain customers, to build advantage on a global scale, to create value. And the more business gets complex, the more, in the name of clarity, accountability, measurement we multiply structures, processes, systems. You know, this drive for clarity and accountability triggers a counterproductive multiplication of interfaces, middle offices, coordinators that do not only mobilize people and resources, but that also add obstacles. And the more complicated the organization, the more difficult it is to understand what is really happening. So we need summaries, proxies, reports, key performance indicators, metrics. So people put their energy in what can get measured, at the expense of cooperation. And as performance deteriorates, we add even more structure, process, systems. People spend their time in meetings, writing reports they have to do, undo and redo. Based on our analysis, teams in these organizations spend between 40 and 80 percent of their time wasting their time, but working harder and harder, longer and longer, on less and less value-adding activities. This is what is killing productivity, what makes people suffer at work. Our organizations are wasting human intelligence. They have turned against human efforts. When people don't cooperate, don't blame their mindsets, their mentalities, their personality — look at the work situations. Is it really in their personal interest to cooperate or not, if, when they cooperate, they are individually worse off? Why would they cooperate? When we blame personalities instead of the clarity, the accountability, the measurement, we add injustice to ineffectiveness. We need to create organizations in which it becomes individually useful for people to cooperate. Remove the interfaces, the middle offices — all these complicated coordination structures. Don't look for clarity; go for fuzziness. Fuzziness overlaps. Remove most of the quantitative metrics to assess performance. Speed the ""what."" Look at cooperation, the ""how."" How did you pass the baton? Did you throw it, or did you pass it effectively? Am I putting my energy in what can get measured — my legs, my speed — or in passing the baton? You, as leaders, as managers, are you making it individually useful for people to cooperate? The future of our organizations, our companies, our societies hinges on your answer to these questions. Thank you. (Applause)"	諾貝爾經濟學獎得主保羅·克魯曼曾經寫道：「生產力不是一切，但長期而言，它幾乎等於一切。」 所以這不是開玩笑的。地球上還沒有太多事情可說是「幾乎等於一切」。生產力是促進社會繁榮的主要驅動力。所以我們遇到麻煩了。在最大的歐洲經濟體系裡，生產力曾經每年成長5%，在'50年代、'60年代、'70年代早期。而在'73年到'83年：每年3%。'83到'95年：每年2%。1995年後：每年不到1%。同樣的狀況發生在日本。同樣的狀況也發生在美國，儘管15年前有過短暫的復甦，以及我們有這麼多新科技的加持，包含網際網路、資訊科技、以及新的資訊傳播科技。 當生產力以每年3%成長時，每一代的生活水準都往上加一倍。每一代都是他們父母輩的兩倍富裕。而當成長率降到1%時，需要經歷三代，生活水準才會加倍。在這過程中，許多人會比父母輩貧窮。他們在各個層面上，都擁有的較少：住比較小的房子、或者根本沒房子住，較受限的教育機會，甚至更難取得維他命、抗生素、疫苗接踵 —幾乎所有一切。想想這些現在我們正在面對的問題。我們全部。事情可能是他們正陷於生產力危機之中。 為何會有這個危機?因為關於效率的基本指導原則 —也就是組織和管理的作用 —已經成為降低人類工作生產力的元凶。在每一個公家機關、私人企業影響著我們工作的方式，影響著我們創新、發明新東西、試著學習將工作做好的方式。以效率教條神聖的「三位一體」為例：條理分明、衡量指標、專人專責。這些都讓人類的努力付出脫軌。 我們可以透過兩種方式來看這件事、並證明它。第一種，我個人偏好，嚴謹的、優美的、可愛的—數學。但完整的數學分析需要好些時間，所以有另一種方式，就是從接力賽來看。這是今天我們要用的方式，更加栩栩如生、更視覺化、也更快 — 它是賽跑當然希望會更快。 (笑聲) 世界冠軍戰 — 女子組。有8支隊伍進入冠軍戰。最快的隊伍是美國隊。她們有全球最快的女子選手。她們是最有希望獲勝的隊伍。特別是，如果你和一個平均水準的隊伍比較，例如法國隊， (笑聲) 以她們百米賽跑的最佳成績為基準，如果你把美國選手的個人時間加進來，她們到達終點線時，可以領先法國隊3.2公尺。而今年，美國隊狀況極佳。以她們今年的最佳成績為基準，可以領先法國隊6.4公尺，數據上看來如此。我們等等來看這場比賽，在某個時間點你會看到，逼近終點時美國隊第四棒選手托里·愛德華絲仍然領先。並不令人感到意外 — 今年她拿下百米金牌。順道一提，美國隊第二棒的克萊斯特·蓋恩斯是全世界最快的女子選手。所以，地球上有35億個女人，最快的兩個在哪裡? 在美國隊裡。而美國隊另外兩個選手當然也不差啦。 (笑聲) 所以很清楚地，美國隊是人才爭奪戰中的贏家。但在她們背後，平均水準的隊伍正試著迎頭趕上。我們來看看比賽。 (影片：法國播報員講述比賽內容) (影片：比賽播報結束) 所以發生了什麼事?最快的隊伍並未取得勝利，比較慢的隊伍贏了。對了，希望你們喜歡我為了讓法國隊看起來不錯所做的深入歷史研究。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 不過我們不用言過其實—畢竟這也不是考古學。 (笑聲) 但為什麼?因為合作。當你聽到這句話：「謝謝合作，整體的力量大於個體的總和。」這不是詩歌、也不是哲學。這是算數。那些拿著接力棒的人本身跑得比別人慢，但她們的接力棒卻比別人的快。合作的神奇之處：它將人類努力的能量和智慧相乘。它是人類所努力付出的本質：我們如何一起工作、我們的付出如何為別人的付出帶來貢獻。透過合作，我們可以用更少資源完成更多事情。 接下來，看看這些聖杯—或者說，這三位一體—條理分明、衡量指標、專人專責— 當它們出現時對合作產生什麼影響? 「條理分明」管理報告充滿對於缺乏條理的抱怨。合規性審計、顧問診斷。我們需要更多條理，我們需要澄清角色和流程。這很困難，這就像接力賽的選手們說：「我們講清楚...我的角色到底從哪裡開始、到哪裡結束?我應該要跑95公尺還是96、97...?」這很重要，所以我們說清楚。如果你說97，那麼97公尺後，她們就會直接放掉接力棒，不管是否有人接住。 「專人專責」我們不斷試著把責任放進某人的手裡。誰要對這個流程負責?我們需要能對這個流程負責的人。所以在接力賽中，因為傳遞接力棒這麼重要，我們得找個人非常清楚地負責傳遞接力棒。所以在每兩個選手之間，我們需要一個新的專職運動員，專門從一個選手手中接過接力棒，(笑聲)然後把它傳遞給下一個選手。而且我們需要至少兩個。好，如果是這樣，我們能贏得比賽嗎?我不知道，但可以確定的是，我們會有個清楚的交界，清楚的責任劃分。我們會知道輸了該怪誰，但我們永遠贏不了比賽如果你仔細想想，我們把較多注意力放在找出失敗時要怪罪的人，而不是創造成功的條件。所有人類投入在組織設計—還有都市結構、處理系統—的智慧，真正的目標是什麼?讓有人會在失敗時感到罪惡。我們正在創造有能力失敗的組織，但與此並存的，是在失敗時能有人清楚地負責。而我們總能相當有效地在—失敗。 「衡量指標」衡量什麼，人們就做什麼。聽著，要傳遞接力棒，必須要在正確的時機、用正確的手、正確的速度。要做到這樣，你得將精力放在手上，而這些在你手上的精力，無法同時放在你腳上。這會對你能測得的速度造成一些損耗。你也得在傳遞接力棒前及早向下一棒喊叫，做為你已經接近的訊號，讓她得以準備、預期你到達的時間。你必須大聲喊叫，但你的血液和精力會被放在喉嚨裡，而不是在腳上。因為你知道，會有8個人同時喊叫，所以你得認出隊友的聲音。你不能說：「是妳嗎?」來不及了！ (笑聲) 接下來，我們來看看比賽的慢動作，並將注意力放在第三棒的選手。看看她如何分配自己的氣力、精力和注意力。並非全在雙腳上—那只對自己的速度有幫助—而是同時在喉嚨、手臂、眼睛和大腦。這對誰的雙腳有所幫助?下一棒的雙腳。但當下一棒得以用超快速度前進時，是因為她自己花了超多力氣，還是因為第三棒有效地傳遞接力棒?世上沒有任何衡量方式可以告訴我們答案。而如果我們以量化的績效指標為基準給予人們獎勵，她們就會將她們的精力、注意力、血液放在能被衡量的地方—她們的雙腳。然後接力棒會掉落，速度會慢下來。 合作並不是一個超大量的付出，而是如何分配自己的付出。它是一種風險的承擔，犧牲客觀的個人量化績效指標所給予你的終極保護，這是為了讓別人的表現能有很大的不同，那些被拿來和我們比較的人。如此說來，合作是件很笨的事，不笨的人就不會想合作。 你知道，條理分明、專人專責、衡量指標在世界比較簡單時尚可運作，但今天的商業情勢遠比過去複雜。我和我的團隊針對商業複雜度的演化進行了評估。今天許多事情遠比以往更吃力，包含吸引並留住客戶、建立全球化的優勢、還有創造價值。而商業情勢越複雜，我們就越以條理分明、專人專責、衡量指標為名，將架構、流程、系統一直往上疊加。 你知道的，條理分明、專人專責的推動，很容易造成生產力降低的疊加效應，因為它會產生許多介面、中間部門和協調角色，他們不全然讓人們和資源更加活化，往往還會增加阻礙。而組織架構越複雜，就越難瞭解真正發生了什麼事情。所以我們需要許多摘要簡報、代理人、報告、關鍵績效指標(KPI)和各種衡量方式。所以人們會將精力放在能被衡量的部分，犧牲彼此的合作。而當組織績效惡化時，我們甚至增加更多的架構、流程、系統。人們花更多時間在開會、寫報告說明他們要做什麼、不做什麼、需重做什麼。根據我們的分析，這些組織裡的團隊大約浪費掉40%到80%的時間，得到的卻是越來越辛苦的工作、越來越長的工時、越來越少真正有價值的活動。就是這些東西殺了生產力、讓人們在工作中感到痛苦。 我們的組織正在浪費人類的智慧，和人類的努力付出背道而馳。當大家不合作時，不要怪他們觀念、心態、個性不佳—先看看工作環境吧。它是否讓人們有合作的興趣?如果他們合作會讓個人表現變差，那他們為什麼要合作?當我們怪罪人們的個性，而非條理分明、專人專責、衡量指標這三大元兇時，就沒有真正公平地看待效率低落這件事。 我們需要創造一種組織，讓互相合作變成對個人有益。去掉那些介面、中間部門—這些複雜的協調用架構。不要尋求條理分明；接受模糊地帶。模糊地帶會有所重疊。去除衡量績效的大部分量化指標。快速通過問「你做了什麼」的階段。把眼光放在合作，「怎麼做」的觀點。你怎麼傳遞接力棒?你是把它丟出去，還是有效地傳遞它?我是將精力放在可以被衡量的部分—我的雙腳、我的速度—還是放在接力棒的傳遞? 在座各位，身為領導人、身為管理人，你們是否讓人們覺得合作對他們個人有所幫助?我們的組織、公司、社會的未來，和你們針對這些問題的回答密不可分。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
