Talk	en	zh-tw
zaria_forman_drawings_that_show_the_beauty_and_fragility_of_earth	"I consider it my life's mission to convey the urgency of climate change through my work. I've traveled north to the Arctic to the capture the unfolding story of polar melt, and south to the Equator to document the subsequent rising seas. Most recently, I visited the icy coast of Greenland and the low-lying islands of the Maldives, connecting two seemingly disparate but equally endangered parts of our planet. My drawings explore moments of transition, turbulence and tranquility in the landscape, allowing viewers to emotionally connect with a place you might never have the chance to visit. I choose to convey the beauty as opposed to the devastation. If you can experience the sublimity of these landscapes, perhaps you'll be inspired to protect and preserve them. Behavioral psychology tells us that we take action and make decisions based on our emotions above all else. And studies have shown that art impacts our emotions more effectively than a scary news report. Experts predict ice-free Arctic summers as early as 2020. And sea levels are likely to rise between two and ten feet by century's end. I have dedicated my career to illuminating these projections with an accessible medium, one that moves us in a way that statistics may not. My process begins with traveling to the places at the forefront of climate change. On-site, I take thousands of photographs. Back in the studio, I work from both my memory of the experience and the photographs to create very large-scale compositions, sometimes over 10 feet wide. I draw with soft pastel, which is dry like charcoal, but colors. I consider my work drawings but others call them painting. I cringe, though, when I'm referred to as a ""finger painter."" (Laughter) But I don't use any tools and I have always used my fingers and palms to manipulate the pigment on the paper. Drawing is a form of meditation for me. It quiets my mind. I don't perceive what I'm drawing as ice or water. Instead, the image is stripped down to its most basic form of color and shape. Once the piece is complete, I can finally experience the composition as a whole, as an iceberg floating through glassy water, or a wave cresting with foam. On average, a piece this size takes me about, as you can see, 10 seconds. (Laughter) (Applause) Really, more like 200 hours, 250 hours for something that size. But I've been drawing ever since I could hold a crayon, really. My mom was an artist, and growing up, we always had art supplies all over the house. My mother's love of photography propelled her to the most remote regions of the earth, and my family and I were fortunate enough to join and support her on these adventures. We rode camels in Northern Africa and mushed on dog sleds near the North Pole. In August of 2012, I led my first expedition, taking a group of artists and scholars up the northwest coast of Greenland. My mother was originally supposed to lead this trip. She and I were in the early stages of planning, as we had intended to go together, when she fell victim to a brain tumor. The cancer quickly took over her body and mind, and she passed away six months later. During the months of her illness, though, her dedication to the expedition never wavered, and I made a promise to carry out her final journey. My mother's passion for the Arctic echoed through my experience in Greenland, and I felt the power and the fragility of the landscape. The sheer size of the icebergs is humbling. The ice fields are alive with movement and sound in a way that I never expected. I expanded the scale of my compositions to give you that same sense of awe that I experienced. Yet, while the grandeur of the ice is evident, so, too, is its vulnerability. From our boat, I could see the ice sweating under the unseasonably warm sun. We had a chance to visit many of the Inuit communities in Greenland that now face huge challenges. The locals spoke to me of vast areas of sea ice that are no longer freezing over as they once did. And without ice, their hunting and harvesting grounds are severely diminished, threatening their way of life and survival. The melting glaciers in Greenland are one of the largest contributing factors to rising sea levels, which have already begun to drown some of our world's lowest-lying islands. One year after my trip to Greenland, I visited the Maldives, the lowest and flattest country in the entire world. While I was there, I collected images and inspiration for a new body of work: drawings of waves lapping on the coast of a nation that could be entirely underwater within this century. Devastating events happen every day on scales both global and personal. When I was in Greenland, I scattered my mother's ashes amidst the melting ice. Now she remains a part of the landscape she loved so much, even as it, too, passes and takes on new form. Among the many gifts my mother gave me was the ability to focus on the positive, rather than the negative. My drawings celebrate the beauty of what we all stand to lose. I hope they can serve as records of sublime landscapes in flux, documenting the transition and inspiring our global community to take action for the future. Thank you. (Applause)"	我把用我的作品来展示氣候變化的緊迫性視作我人生的使命我到過北極去了解關於極地冰川融化的未知故事我也去到赤道地區去記錄海平面上升帶來的一系列影響最近 我去了格林蘭島寒冷的海岸以及馬爾代夫低窪的島嶼我將地球上這兩個看起來互不相干卻面臨同樣危機的地區聯繫起來 我的畫作展示的是地景轉化的瞬間、天氣狂暴的瞬間以及寧靜美麗的瞬間這些瞬間能讓觀看者與畫作中他們可能永遠沒機會去到的地方產生情感上的共鳴我選擇在畫作中展示的是自然風景的美麗而不是被破壞的一面如果你能體會到這些自然風光的莊嚴崇高或許你就會意識到應該保護自然 行為心理學告訴我們影響我們行動和下決心最大的影響因素是情緒有研究已經證明藝術比駭人的新聞更能影響我們的情緒專家預測在不久的2020年北極的夏季將不再有冰川並且在本世紀末之前海平面將升高2到10英呎我將我的事業致力於用容易理解的媒介來解釋這些預測這種媒介比能以數據做不到的方式來驅使我們保護環境 我以開始到氣候變化影響最大的各個地方旅行為開端我在這些地方拍下了成千上萬張照片然後我回到工作室通過我自己的回憶經歷和照片來創作大篇幅的作品有時這些作品的寬度能超過10英呎 我用粉筆作畫它看起來像有顏色的木炭我認為我的作品是畫作但是其他人將它們稱之為畫畫但是當我被介紹為“手指畫家”的時候我還是會難堪 （笑聲） 但是我畫畫不用任何工具我用我的手指和手掌來操縱紙上的顏料畫畫對我來說是一種冥想能讓我的思緒安靜下來我不去刻意思考我正在畫什麼不去刻意想畫的是冰還是水而是讓畫面自然而然以它最基本的顏色和形狀呈現當一幅畫完成之後我才會感受到它的完整性它展現的是漂浮在晶瑩剔透的水面上的冰山或者是浪尖全是泡沫的海浪像這樣規模的畫作平均會耗時如影片所見 - 10秒鐘 （笑聲） （掌聲） 其實它會耗時超過200小時甚至大規模的某些作品會花費250小時我從能夠握住蠟筆就開始畫畫一直到現在我母親是個藝術家在我的成長過程中我被各式藝術原料包圍我母親對攝影的熱愛驅使她去了世界上最遙遠的地區我和我的家人有幸能夠支持她並參與她的冒險旅程我們在北非騎過駱駝在北極坐過狗撬 從2012年8月開始我領導第一次考察帶領一組由藝術家和學者組成的考察隊去格陵蘭島的西北海岸這次考察本來該由我母親帶領但是當我們剛開始初期準備要一起出發去考察的時候她查出有腦瘤癌症迅速擊垮了她的身體和意志6個月后 她去世了儘管在被病痛折磨的那幾個月她依然堅持為考察的事情付出我也承諾會代替她走完這最後旅程 在格陵蘭島的經歷使我回想起了我母親對北極的熱愛讓我感受到了自然的偉大力量以及自然的脆弱陡峭的冰山讓人望而生畏冰山是能夠移動和發出聲音像是活著一樣完全出乎我的意料我加大作品規模想讓你們也能感受到我所體驗到的對自然的敬畏冰山的宏偉壯觀是顯而易見的它的脆弱也不容忽視從我們乘坐的船上我能看到冰在不符合季節的暖陽下融化 我們也去拜訪了許多格陵蘭島上的因紐特人社區他們現在面臨著巨大的挑戰當地人向我講述當初廣闊的海上冰川已不再像從前那樣結冰了沒有了冰 他們打獵和種植的土地也隨之消失這嚴重威脅了他們的生活和生存 融化的格陵蘭島冰河是海平面上升的最大原因之一海平面的上升已經開始淹沒世界上地勢最低的海島格林蘭島之行的一年之後我去了馬爾代夫它是世界上地勢最低最平坦的國家我在那裡為我的新作品拍攝照片和獲取靈感我想畫下海浪拍打著這個海岸之國的畫面畫這個可能在本世紀內就淹沒於海底的國家 每天都有令人沮喪的事發生在世界與個人身上當我在格林蘭島時我將我母親的骨灰撒在了融化的冰川之中現在她與她所深愛的風景融為一體她對自然的熱愛以新的方式繼續延續 在我母親賦予我的許多天賦之中重要的是專注於事物的積極面的能力而非關注它們的消極性我的畫作是對即將消逝的美麗的讚美我希望它們能記錄不斷變化著的崇高的自然記錄自然的變化並鼓勵全世界的人們為了美好未來而行動起來 謝謝 （掌聲）
