Talk	en	zh-tw
ze_frank_are_you_human	"(Music) This is the human test, a test to see if you are a human. Please raise your hand if something applies to you. Are we agreed? Yes? Then let's begin. Have you ever eaten a booger long past your childhood? (Laughter) It's okay, it's safe here. Have you ever made a small, weird sound when you remembered something embarrassing? Have you ever purposely lowercased the first letter of a text in order to come across as sad or disappointed? (Laughter) Okay. Have you ever ended a text with a period as a sign of aggression? Okay. Period. Have you ever laughed or smiled when someone said something shitty to you and then spent the rest of the day wondering why you reacted that way? Yes. Have you ever seemed to lose your airplane ticket a thousand times as you walked from the check-in to the gate? Yes. Have you ever put on a pair of pants and then much later realized that there was a loose sock smushed up against your thigh? (Laughter) Good. Have you ever tried to guess someone else's password so many times that it locked their account? Mmm. Have you ever had a nagging feeling that one day you will be discovered as a fraud? Yes, it's safe here. Have you ever hoped that there was some ability you hadn't discovered yet that you were just naturally great at? Mmm. Have you ever broken something in real life, and then found yourself looking for an ""undo"" button in real life? Have you ever misplaced your TED badge and then immediately started imagining what a three-day Vancouver vacation might look like? Have you ever marveled at how someone you thought was so ordinary could suddenly become so beautiful? Have you ever stared at your phone smiling like an idiot while texting with someone? Have you ever subsequently texted that person the phrase ""I'm staring at the phone smiling like an idiot""? Have you ever been tempted to, and then gave in to the temptation, of looking through someone else's phone? Have you ever had a conversation with yourself and then suddenly realized you're a real asshole to yourself? (Laughter) Has your phone ever run out of battery in the middle of an argument, and it sort of felt like the phone was breaking up with both of you? Have you ever thought that working on an issue between you was futile because it should just be easier than this, or this is supposed to happen just naturally? Have you ever realized that very little, in the long run, just happens naturally? Have you ever woken up blissfully and suddenly been flooded by the awful remembrance that someone had left you? Have you ever lost the ability to imagine a future without a person that no longer was in your life? Have you ever looked back on that event with the sad smile of autumn and the realization that futures will happen regardless? Congratulations. You have now completed the test. You are all human. (Applause)"	（音樂）這是個人類測試，測試你是否為人。如果這些事曾發生在你身上請舉手。同意嗎？好。我們開始吧。 你是否曾吃過鼻屎，而且是在長大之後？（笑聲）沒關係，我們不會說出去。 你是否曾經在想起尷尬時刻時發出微小的怪聲？ 你是否曾經故意將英文首字小寫以表示傷心或失望？（笑聲）好的。 你是否曾在句末加上句點，以表示不爽？好。句點。 你是否曾大笑或微笑應對別人對你說的垃圾話然後花一整天的時間都在想你為什麼會做出那種反應。有。 你是否曾把飛機票弄丟好幾百遍，就在你從櫃檯走到機門這段路上。有的。 你是否曾穿上長褲許久後才發現大腿處卡了隻襪子？（笑聲）很好。 你是否試圖猜測某人的密碼卻多次猜錯導致那帳號被鎖？嗯。 你是否有種不安感怕有天會被發現自己很虛假？沒關係，這裡很安全。 你是否曾希望自己有某些能力，雖然未被發掘，但你在那方面就是天賦異稟？嗯。 你是否曾在現實生活中搞壞某樣東西然後發現自己在現實生活中找尋復原鍵？ 你是否曾把 TED 名牌搞丟然後開始想像這三天可以到會場外的溫哥華市區逛逛？ 你是否曾感到驚艷，怎麼你一直認為很平凡的人突然間變得這麼美麗？ 你是否曾盯著手機邊傳簡訊邊笑得跟傻子一樣？你是否曾接著傳簡訊給那人，告訴他：「我正盯著手機，笑得跟傻子一樣？」 你是否曾經非常非常想，想到實在忍不住，就偷看了別人的手機？ 你是否曾跟自己對話，講到後來突然覺得你幹嘛對自己那麼兇？ （笑聲） 你是否曾經在吵架時突然手機沒電，感覺好像電話在跟你們兩人分手？ 你是否想過解決你們之間的問題毫無意義，因為照理說不應該這麼難，或是這種問題理應自然解決？但回過頭來，你是否發現只有極少數問題自然解決？ 你是否曾開心的醒來，卻突然湧入難受的回憶，想起某人已經離開你了？ 你是否曾無法想像你的生命中少了某個人未來會是如何？你是否曾在回顧過去時浮現傷心的一抹微笑，發現未來仍有很長的路在等著你？ 恭喜各位。你們都完成測試。大家都是人。 （掌聲）
