Talk	en	zh-tw
zeynep_tufekci_machine_intelligence_makes_human_morals_more_important	"So, I started my first job as a computer programmer in my very first year of college — basically, as a teenager. Soon after I started working, writing software in a company, a manager who worked at the company came down to where I was, and he whispered to me, ""Can he tell if I'm lying?"" There was nobody else in the room. ""Can who tell if you're lying? And why are we whispering?"" The manager pointed at the computer in the room. ""Can he tell if I'm lying?"" Well, that manager was having an affair with the receptionist. (Laughter) And I was still a teenager. So I whisper-shouted back to him, ""Yes, the computer can tell if you're lying."" (Laughter) Well, I laughed, but actually, the laugh's on me. Nowadays, there are computational systems that can suss out emotional states and even lying from processing human faces. Advertisers and even governments are very interested. I had become a computer programmer because I was one of those kids crazy about math and science. But somewhere along the line I'd learned about nuclear weapons, and I'd gotten really concerned with the ethics of science. I was troubled. However, because of family circumstances, I also needed to start working as soon as possible. So I thought to myself, hey, let me pick a technical field where I can get a job easily and where I don't have to deal with any troublesome questions of ethics. So I picked computers. (Laughter) Well, ha, ha, ha! All the laughs are on me. Nowadays, computer scientists are building platforms that control what a billion people see every day. They're developing cars that could decide who to run over. They're even building machines, weapons, that might kill human beings in war. It's ethics all the way down. Machine intelligence is here. We're now using computation to make all sort of decisions, but also new kinds of decisions. We're asking questions to computation that have no single right answers, that are subjective and open-ended and value-laden. We're asking questions like, ""Who should the company hire?"" ""Which update from which friend should you be shown?"" ""Which convict is more likely to reoffend?"" ""Which news item or movie should be recommended to people?"" Look, yes, we've been using computers for a while, but this is different. This is a historical twist, because we cannot anchor computation for such subjective decisions the way we can anchor computation for flying airplanes, building bridges, going to the moon. Are airplanes safer? Did the bridge sway and fall? There, we have agreed-upon, fairly clear benchmarks, and we have laws of nature to guide us. We have no such anchors and benchmarks for decisions in messy human affairs. To make things more complicated, our software is getting more powerful, but it's also getting less transparent and more complex. Recently, in the past decade, complex algorithms have made great strides. They can recognize human faces. They can decipher handwriting. They can detect credit card fraud and block spam and they can translate between languages. They can detect tumors in medical imaging. They can beat humans in chess and Go. Much of this progress comes from a method called ""machine learning."" Machine learning is different than traditional programming, where you give the computer detailed, exact, painstaking instructions. It's more like you take the system and you feed it lots of data, including unstructured data, like the kind we generate in our digital lives. And the system learns by churning through this data. And also, crucially, these systems don't operate under a single-answer logic. They don't produce a simple answer; it's more probabilistic: ""This one is probably more like what you're looking for."" Now, the upside is: this method is really powerful. The head of Google's AI systems called it, ""the unreasonable effectiveness of data."" The downside is, we don't really understand what the system learned. In fact, that's its power. This is less like giving instructions to a computer; it's more like training a puppy-machine-creature we don't really understand or control. So this is our problem. It's a problem when this artificial intelligence system gets things wrong. It's also a problem when it gets things right, because we don't even know which is which when it's a subjective problem. We don't know what this thing is thinking. So, consider a hiring algorithm — a system used to hire people, using machine-learning systems. Such a system would have been trained on previous employees' data and instructed to find and hire people like the existing high performers in the company. Sounds good. I once attended a conference that brought together human resources managers and executives, high-level people, using such systems in hiring. They were super excited. They thought that this would make hiring more objective, less biased, and give women and minorities a better shot against biased human managers. And look — human hiring is biased. I know. I mean, in one of my early jobs as a programmer, my immediate manager would sometimes come down to where I was really early in the morning or really late in the afternoon, and she'd say, ""Zeynep, let's go to lunch!"" I'd be puzzled by the weird timing. It's 4pm. Lunch? I was broke, so free lunch. I always went. I later realized what was happening. My immediate managers had not confessed to their higher-ups that the programmer they hired for a serious job was a teen girl who wore jeans and sneakers to work. I was doing a good job, I just looked wrong and was the wrong age and gender. So hiring in a gender- and race-blind way certainly sounds good to me. But with these systems, it is more complicated, and here's why: Currently, computational systems can infer all sorts of things about you from your digital crumbs, even if you have not disclosed those things. They can infer your sexual orientation, your personality traits, your political leanings. They have predictive power with high levels of accuracy. Remember — for things you haven't even disclosed. This is inference. I have a friend who developed such computational systems to predict the likelihood of clinical or postpartum depression from social media data. The results are impressive. Her system can predict the likelihood of depression months before the onset of any symptoms — months before. No symptoms, there's prediction. She hopes it will be used for early intervention. Great! But now put this in the context of hiring. So at this human resources managers conference, I approached a high-level manager in a very large company, and I said to her, ""Look, what if, unbeknownst to you, your system is weeding out people with high future likelihood of depression? They're not depressed now, just maybe in the future, more likely. What if it's weeding out women more likely to be pregnant in the next year or two but aren't pregnant now? What if it's hiring aggressive people because that's your workplace culture?"" You can't tell this by looking at gender breakdowns. Those may be balanced. And since this is machine learning, not traditional coding, there is no variable there labeled ""higher risk of depression,"" ""higher risk of pregnancy,"" ""aggressive guy scale."" Not only do you not know what your system is selecting on, you don't even know where to begin to look. It's a black box. It has predictive power, but you don't understand it. ""What safeguards,"" I asked, ""do you have to make sure that your black box isn't doing something shady?"" She looked at me as if I had just stepped on 10 puppy tails. (Laughter) She stared at me and she said, ""I don't want to hear another word about this."" And she turned around and walked away. Mind you — she wasn't rude. It was clearly: what I don't know isn't my problem, go away, death stare. (Laughter) Look, such a system may even be less biased than human managers in some ways. And it could make monetary sense. But it could also lead to a steady but stealthy shutting out of the job market of people with higher risk of depression. Is this the kind of society we want to build, without even knowing we've done this, because we turned decision-making to machines we don't totally understand? Another problem is this: these systems are often trained on data generated by our actions, human imprints. Well, they could just be reflecting our biases, and these systems could be picking up on our biases and amplifying them and showing them back to us, while we're telling ourselves, ""We're just doing objective, neutral computation."" Researchers found that on Google, women are less likely than men to be shown job ads for high-paying jobs. And searching for African-American names is more likely to bring up ads suggesting criminal history, even when there is none. Such hidden biases and black-box algorithms that researchers uncover sometimes but sometimes we don't know, can have life-altering consequences. In Wisconsin, a defendant was sentenced to six years in prison for evading the police. You may not know this, but algorithms are increasingly used in parole and sentencing decisions. He wanted to know: How is this score calculated? It's a commercial black box. The company refused to have its algorithm be challenged in open court. But ProPublica, an investigative nonprofit, audited that very algorithm with what public data they could find, and found that its outcomes were biased and its predictive power was dismal, barely better than chance, and it was wrongly labeling black defendants as future criminals at twice the rate of white defendants. So, consider this case: This woman was late picking up her godsister from a school in Broward County, Florida, running down the street with a friend of hers. They spotted an unlocked kid's bike and a scooter on a porch and foolishly jumped on it. As they were speeding off, a woman came out and said, ""Hey! That's my kid's bike!"" They dropped it, they walked away, but they were arrested. She was wrong, she was foolish, but she was also just 18. She had a couple of juvenile misdemeanors. Meanwhile, that man had been arrested for shoplifting in Home Depot — 85 dollars' worth of stuff, a similar petty crime. But he had two prior armed robbery convictions. But the algorithm scored her as high risk, and not him. Two years later, ProPublica found that she had not reoffended. It was just hard to get a job for her with her record. He, on the other hand, did reoffend and is now serving an eight-year prison term for a later crime. Clearly, we need to audit our black boxes and not have them have this kind of unchecked power. (Applause) Audits are great and important, but they don't solve all our problems. Take Facebook's powerful news feed algorithm — you know, the one that ranks everything and decides what to show you from all the friends and pages you follow. Should you be shown another baby picture? (Laughter) A sullen note from an acquaintance? An important but difficult news item? There's no right answer. Facebook optimizes for engagement on the site: likes, shares, comments. In August of 2014, protests broke out in Ferguson, Missouri, after the killing of an African-American teenager by a white police officer, under murky circumstances. The news of the protests was all over my algorithmically unfiltered Twitter feed, but nowhere on my Facebook. Was it my Facebook friends? I disabled Facebook's algorithm, which is hard because Facebook keeps wanting to make you come under the algorithm's control, and saw that my friends were talking about it. It's just that the algorithm wasn't showing it to me. I researched this and found this was a widespread problem. The story of Ferguson wasn't algorithm-friendly. It's not ""likable."" Who's going to click on ""like?"" It's not even easy to comment on. Without likes and comments, the algorithm was likely showing it to even fewer people, so we didn't get to see this. Instead, that week, Facebook's algorithm highlighted this, which is the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. Worthy cause; dump ice water, donate to charity, fine. But it was super algorithm-friendly. The machine made this decision for us. A very important but difficult conversation might have been smothered, had Facebook been the only channel. Now, finally, these systems can also be wrong in ways that don't resemble human systems. Do you guys remember Watson, IBM's machine-intelligence system that wiped the floor with human contestants on Jeopardy? It was a great player. But then, for Final Jeopardy, Watson was asked this question: ""Its largest airport is named for a World War II hero, its second-largest for a World War II battle."" (Hums Final Jeopardy music) Chicago. The two humans got it right. Watson, on the other hand, answered ""Toronto"" — for a US city category! The impressive system also made an error that a human would never make, a second-grader wouldn't make. Our machine intelligence can fail in ways that don't fit error patterns of humans, in ways we won't expect and be prepared for. It'd be lousy not to get a job one is qualified for, but it would triple suck if it was because of stack overflow in some subroutine. (Laughter) In May of 2010, a flash crash on Wall Street fueled by a feedback loop in Wall Street's ""sell"" algorithm wiped a trillion dollars of value in 36 minutes. I don't even want to think what ""error"" means in the context of lethal autonomous weapons. So yes, humans have always made biases. Decision makers and gatekeepers, in courts, in news, in war ... they make mistakes; but that's exactly my point. We cannot escape these difficult questions. We cannot outsource our responsibilities to machines. (Applause) Artificial intelligence does not give us a ""Get out of ethics free"" card. Data scientist Fred Benenson calls this math-washing. We need the opposite. We need to cultivate algorithm suspicion, scrutiny and investigation. We need to make sure we have algorithmic accountability, auditing and meaningful transparency. We need to accept that bringing math and computation to messy, value-laden human affairs does not bring objectivity; rather, the complexity of human affairs invades the algorithms. Yes, we can and we should use computation to help us make better decisions. But we have to own up to our moral responsibility to judgment, and use algorithms within that framework, not as a means to abdicate and outsource our responsibilities to one another as human to human. Machine intelligence is here. That means we must hold on ever tighter to human values and human ethics. Thank you. (Applause)"	大一時我開始了第一份工作：程式設計師，當時我還算是個青少女。 開始為軟體公司寫程式後不久，公司裡的一個經理走到我身邊，悄悄地問：「他能判斷我是否說謊嗎？」當時房裡沒別人。 「『誰』能不能判斷你說謊與否？而且，我們為什麼耳語呢？」 經理指著房裡的電腦，問：「『他』能判斷我是否說謊嗎？」當時那經理與接待員有曖昧關係。 （笑聲） 那時我仍是個青少女。所以，我用耳語大聲地回答他：「能，電腦能判斷你撒謊與否。」 （笑聲） 沒錯，我笑了，但可笑的人是我。如今，有些計算系統靠分析、判讀面部表情，就能判斷出情緒狀態，甚至判斷是否說謊。廣告商，甚至政府也對此很感興趣。 我之所以成為程式設計師乃因自幼便極為喜愛數學和科學。過程中我學到核子武器，因而變得非常關心科學倫理。我很苦惱。但由於家庭狀況，我必須儘早就業。因此我告訴自己，選擇一個在科技領域中能簡單地找到頭路，又無需處理涉及倫理道德這類麻煩問題的工作吧。所以我選擇了電腦。 （笑聲） 是啊，哈哈哈！大家都笑我。如今，電腦科學家正建構著可控制數十億人每天接收訊息的平台。他們設計的汽車可以決定要輾過哪些人。他們甚至建造能殺人的戰爭機器和武器。從頭到尾都是倫理的問題。 機器智慧已經在此。我們利用計算來做各種決策，同時也是種新形態的決策。我們以計算來尋求解答，但問題沒有單一的正解，而是主觀、開放、具價值觀的答案。 問題像是，「公司應該聘誰？」「應該顯示哪個朋友的哪項更新？」「哪個罪犯更可能再犯？」「應該推薦哪項新聞或哪部電影？」 我們使用電腦雖有一段時間了，但這是不同的。這是歷史性的轉折，因我們不能主導計算機如何去做這樣的主觀決定，無法像主導計算機去開飛機、造橋樑或登陸月球那樣。飛機會更安全嗎？橋樑會搖擺或倒塌嗎？那兒已有相當明確的基準共識，有自然的法則指引著我們。但我們沒有判斷凌亂人事的錨點或基準。 使事情變得更為複雜的是，因軟體越來越強大，但也越來越不透明，越複雜難懂。過去十年複雜的演算法有長足的進步：能辨識人臉，能解讀手寫的字，能檢測信用卡欺詐，阻擋垃圾郵件，能翻譯不同的語言，能判讀醫學影像查出腫瘤，能在西洋棋和圍棋賽中擊敗人類棋手。 這些進步主要來自所謂的「機器學習」法。機器學習不同於傳統的程式編寫。編寫程式是下詳細、精確、齊全的計算機指令；機器學習更像是餵大量的數據給系統，包括非結構化的數據，像我們數位生活產生的數據；系統翻撈這些數據來學習。至關重要的是，這些系統不在產生單一答案的邏輯系統下運作；它們不會給出一個簡單的答案，而是以更接近機率的形式呈現：「這可能更接近你所要找的。」 好處是：這方法強而有力。谷歌的人工智慧系統負責人稱之為：「不合理的數據有效性。」缺點是，我們未能真正明白系統學到了什麼。事實上，這就是它的力量。這不像下指令給計算機；而更像是訓練我們未能真正了解或無法控制的機器寵物狗。這是我們的問題。人工智慧系統出錯時會是個問題；即使它弄對了還是個問題，因碰到主觀問題時，我們不知哪個是哪個。我們不知道系統在想什麼。 就拿招募人員的演算法來說，亦即以機器學習來僱用人的系統，這樣的系統用已有的員工數據來訓練機器，指示它尋找和僱用那些類似公司現有的高績效員工的人。聽起來不錯。我曾參加某會議，聚集人資經理和高階主管，高層人士，使用這種系統招聘。他們超級興奮，認為這種系統會使招聘更為客觀，較少偏見，有利於婦女和少數民族避開有偏見的管理人。 看哪！靠人類僱用是有偏見的。我知道。我的意思是，在早期某個編寫程式的工作，有時候我的直屬主管會在大清早或下午很晚時來到我身旁，說：「日娜，走，吃午飯！」我被奇怪的時間點所困惑。下午4點。吃午餐？我很窮，因是免費的午餐，所以總是會去。後來我明白到底是怎麼回事。我的直屬主管沒讓她的主管知道，他們僱來做重要職務的程式設計師，是個穿牛仔褲和運動鞋來上班的十幾歲女孩。我工作做得很好，只是外表形象看起來不符，年齡和性別不對。 因此，性別和種族不列入考慮的僱用系統對我而言當然不錯。但使用這些系統會更複雜，原因是：目前的計算系統可從你零散的數位足跡推斷出關於你的各種事物，即使你未曾披露過。他們能推斷你的性取向，個性的特質，政治的傾向。他們的預測能力相當精準。請記住：知道你未曾公開的事情是推理。 我有個朋友開發這樣的計算系統：從社交媒體數據來預測臨床或產後抑鬱症的可能性。結果非常優異。她的系統能在出現任何症狀的幾個月前預測出抑鬱的可能性，是好幾個月前。雖沒有症狀，已預測出來。她希望它被用來早期干預處理。很好！但是，設想若把這系統用在僱人的情況下。 在這人資經理會議中，我走向一間大公司的高階經理，對她說：「假設在你不知道的情形下，那個系統被用來排除未來極有可能抑鬱的人呢？他們現在不抑鬱，只是未來『比較有可能』抑鬱。如果它被用來排除在未來一兩年比較有可能懷孕，但現在沒懷孕的婦女呢？如果它被用來招募激進性格者，以符合你的職場文化呢？」透過性別比例無法看到這些問題，因比例可能是均衡的。而且由於這是機器學習，不是傳統編碼，沒有標記為「更高抑鬱症風險」、「更高懷孕風險」、「侵略性格者」的變數；你不僅不知道系統在選什麼，甚至不知道要從何找起。它就是個黑盒子，具有預測能力，但你不了解它。 我問：「你有什麼能確保你的黑盒子沒在暗地裡做了什麼不可告人之事？她看著我，彷彿我剛踩了十隻小狗的尾巴。 （笑聲） 她盯著我，說：「關於這事，我不想再聽妳多說一個字。」然後她就轉身走開了。提醒你們，她不是粗魯。她的意思很明顯：我不知道的事不是我的問題。走開。惡狠狠盯著。 （笑聲） 這樣的系統可能比人類經理在某些方面更沒有偏見，可能也省錢；但也可能在不知不覺中逐步導致抑鬱症風險較高的人在就業市場裡吃到閉門羹。我們要在不自覺的情形下建立這種社會嗎？僅僅因我們讓給我們不完全理解的機器做決策？ 另一個問題是：這些系統通常由我們行動產生的數據，即人類的印記所訓練。它們可能只是反映我們的偏見，學習了我們的偏見並且放大，然後回饋給我們；而我們卻告訴自己：「這樣做是客觀、不偏頗的計算。」 研究人員在谷歌上發現，女性看到高薪工作招聘的廣告少於男性。蒐索非裔美國人的名字比較可能帶出暗示犯罪史的廣告，即使那人並無犯罪史。這種隱藏偏見和黑箱的演算法，有時被研究人員發現了，但有時我們毫無所知，很可能產生改變生命的後果。 在威斯康辛州，某個被告因逃避警察而被判處六年監禁。你可能不知道演算法越來越頻繁地被用在假釋和量刑的決定上。想知道分數如何計算出來的嗎？這是個商業的黑盒子，開發它的公司拒絕讓演算法在公開法庭上受盤問。但是 ProPublica 這家非營利機構評估該演算法，使用找得到的公共數據，發現其結果偏頗，預測能力相當差，僅比碰運氣稍強，並錯誤地標記黑人被告成為未來罪犯的機率，是白人被告的兩倍。 考慮這個情況：這女人因來不及去佛州布勞沃德郡的學校接她的乾妹妹，而與朋友狂奔趕赴學校。他們看到門廊上有一輛未上鎖的兒童腳踏車和一台滑板車，愚蠢地跳上去，當他們趕時間快速離去時，一個女人出來說：「嘿！那是我孩子的腳踏車！」雖然他們留下車子走開，但被逮捕了。 她錯了，她很蠢，但她只有十八歲。曾觸犯兩次少年輕罪。同時，那個男人因在家得寶商店偷竊八十五美元的東西而被捕，類似的小罪，但他曾兩次因武裝搶劫而被定罪。演算法認定她有再犯的高風險，而他卻不然。兩年後，ProPublica發現她未曾再犯；但因有過犯罪紀錄而難以找到工作。另一方面，他再犯了，現正因再犯之罪而入監服刑八年。很顯然，我們必需審核黑盒子，並且不賦予它們這類未經檢查的權力。 （掌聲） 審核極其重要，但不足以解決所有的問題。拿臉書強大的動態消息演算法來說，就是通過你的朋友圈和瀏覽過的頁面，排序並決定推薦什麼給你看的演算法。應該再讓你看一張嬰兒照片嗎？ （笑聲） 或者一個熟人的哀傷筆記？還是一則重要但艱澀的新聞？沒有正確的答案。臉書根據在網站上的參與度來優化：喜歡，分享，評論。 2014年八月，在密蘇里州弗格森市爆發了抗議遊行，抗議一位白人警察在不明的狀況下殺害一個非裔美國少年，抗議的消息充斥在我未經演算法篩選過的推特頁面上，但我的臉書上卻一則也沒有。是我的臉書好友不關注這事嗎？我關閉了臉書的演算法，但很麻煩惱人，因為臉書不斷地想讓你回到演算法的控制下，臉書的朋友有在談論弗格森這事，只是臉書的演算法沒有顯示給我看。研究後，我發現這問題普遍存在。 弗格森一事和演算法不合，它不討喜；誰會點擊「讚」呢？它甚至不易被評論。越是沒有讚、沒評論，演算法就顯示給越少人看，所以我們看不到這則新聞。相反地，臉書的演算法在那星期特別突顯為漸凍人募款的冰桶挑戰這事。崇高的目標；傾倒冰水，捐贈慈善，有意義，很好；這事與演算法超級速配，機器已為我們決定了。非常重要但艱澀的新聞事件可能被埋沒掉，倘若臉書是唯一的新聞渠道。 最後，這些系統也可能以不像人類犯錯的方式出錯。大家可還記得 IBM 的機器智慧系統華生在 Jeopardy 的智力問答比賽中橫掃人類的對手？它是個厲害的選手。在 Final Jeopardy 中華生被問到：「它的最大機場以二戰英雄命名，第二大機場以二戰戰場為名。」 （哼 Jeopardy 的音樂） 「芝加哥」，兩個人類選手的答案正確；華生則回答「多倫多」。這是個猜「美國」城市的問題啊！這個厲害的系統也犯了人類永遠不會犯，即使二年級學生也不會犯的錯誤。 我們的機器智慧可能敗在與人類犯錯模式迥異之處，在我們完全想不到、沒準備的地方出錯。得不到一份可勝任的工作確實很糟糕，但若起因是機器的子程式漫溢，會是三倍的糟糕。 （笑聲） 2010年五月，華爾街「賣出」演算法的回饋迴路觸發了股市的急速崩盤，數萬億美元的市值在36分鐘內蒸發掉了。我甚至不敢想若「錯誤」發生在致命的自動武器上會是何種情況。 是啊，人類總是有偏見。決策者和守門人在法庭、新聞中、戰爭裡 … 都會犯錯；但這正是我的觀點：我們不能逃避這些困難的問題。我們不能把責任外包給機器。 （掌聲） 人工智慧不會給我們「倫理免責卡」。 數據科學家費德·本森稱之為「數學粉飾」。我們需要相反的東西。我們需要培養懷疑、審視和調查演算法的能力。我們需確保演算法有人負責，能被審查，並且確實公開透明。我們必須體認，把數學和演算法帶入凌亂、具價值觀的人類事務不能帶來客觀性；相反地，人類事務的複雜性侵入演算法。是啊，我們可以、也應該用演算法來幫助我們做出更好的決定。但我們也需要在判斷中加入道德義務，並在該框架內使用演算法，而不是像人與人間相互推卸那樣，就把責任轉移給機器。 機器智慧已經到來，這意味著我們必須更堅守人類價值觀和人類倫理。 謝謝。 (掌聲）
