Talk	en	zh-tw
zubaida_bai_a_simple_birth_kit_for_mothers_in_the_developing_world	"In the next six minutes that you will listen to me, the world will have lost three mothers while delivering their babies: one, because of a severe complication; second, because she will be a teenager and her body will not be prepared for birth; but the third, only because of lack of access to basic clean tools at the time of childbirth. She will not be alone. Over one million mothers and babies die every single year in the developing world, only because of lack of access to basic cleanliness while giving birth to their babies. My journey began on a hot summer afternoon in India in 2008, when after a day of meeting women and listening to their needs, I landed in a thatched hut with a midwife. As a mother, I was very curious on how she delivered babies in her house. After a deep and engaging conversation with her on how she considered it a profound calling to do what she was doing, I asked her a parting question: Do you have the tools that you need to deliver the babies? I got to see her tool. ""This is what I use to separate the mother and the baby,"" she said. Unsure of how to react, I held this agricultural tool in my hand in shock. I took a picture of this, hugged her and walked away. My mind was flooded with reflections of my own infection that I had to struggle with for a year past childbirth despite having access to the best medical care, and memories of my conversation with my father, who had lost his mom to childbirth, on how he thought his life would be so different if she would have been just next to him growing up. As a product developer, I started my process of research. I was very excited to find that there was a product out there called the Clean Birth Kit. But I just couldn't buy one for months. They were only assembled based on availability of funding. Finally, when I got my hands on one, I was in shock again. I would never use these tools to deliver my baby, I thought. But to confirm my instincts, I went back to the women, some of whom had the experience of using this product. Lo and behold, they had the same reaction and more. The women said they would rather deliver on a floor than on a plastic sheet that smeared blood all over. They were absolutely right — it would cause more infection. The thread provided was a highway to bacterial infection through the baby's umbilical cord, and the blade used was the kind that men used for shaving, and they did not want it anywhere close to them. There was no incentive for anybody to redesign this product, because it was based on charity. The women were never consulted in this process. And to my surprise, the need was not only in homes but also in institutional settings with high-volume births. Situations in remote areas were even more daunting. This had to change. I made this my area of focus. I started the design process by collecting feedback, developing prototypes and engaging with various stakeholders researching global protocols. With every single prototype, we went back to the women to ensure that we had a product for them. What I learned through this process was that these women, despite their extreme poverty, placed great value on their health and well-being. They were absolutely not poor in mind. As with all of us, they would appreciate a well-designed product developed for their needs. After many iterations working with experts, medical health professionals and the women themselves, I should say it was not an easy process at all, but we had a simple and beautiful design. For a dollar more than what the existing product was offered for, at three dollars, we were able to deliver ""janma,"" a clean birth kit in a purse. Janma, meaning ""birth,"" contained a blood-absorbing sheet for the woman to give birth on, a surgical scalpel, a cord clamp, a bar of soap, a pair of gloves and the first cloth to wipe the baby clean. All this came packaged in a beautiful purse that was given to the mother as a gift after all her hard work, that she carried home with pride as a symbol of prosperity. One woman reacted to this gift. She said, ""Is this really mine? Can I keep it?"" The other one said, ""Will you give me a different color when I have my next baby?"" (Laughter) Better yet, a woman expressed that this was the first purse that she had ever owned in her life. The kit, aside from its symbolism and its simplicity, is designed to follow globally recommended medical protocol and serves as a behavior-change tool to follow steps one after the other. It can not only be used in homes, but also in institutional settings. To date, our kit has impacted over 600,000 mothers and babies around the world. It's a humbling experience to watch these numbers grow, and I cannot wait until we reach a hundred million. But women's health issues do not end here. There are thousands of simple issues that require low-cost interventions. We have facts to prove that if we invest in women and girls and provide them with better health and well-being, they will deliver healthier and wealthier and prosperous communities. We have to start by bringing simplicity and dignity to women's health issues: from reducing maternal mortality, to breaking taboos, to empowering women to take control of their own lives. This is my dream. But it is not possible to achieve it without engaging men and women alike from around the world — yes, all of you. I recently heard this lyric by Leonard Cohen: ""Ring the bells that still can ring. Forget your perfect offering. There is a crack in everything. That's how the light gets in."" This is my bit of light. But we need more light. In fact, we need huge spotlights placed in the world of women's health if we need a better tomorrow. We should never forget that women are at the center of a sustainable world, and we do not exist without them. Thank you. (Applause)"	在接下來我演講的六分鐘內，世界上會有三位母親在分娩時死去：一位是因為嚴重的併發症；另一位是因為她尚未成年，她的身體狀況還不足以勝任生產。但是第三位母親，只是因為在生產的時候缺少基本的清潔工具。這樣的情況並不罕見。在發展中國家，每年都有超過一百萬的母親和新生兒只是因為生產環境不夠清潔而死亡。 我的旅程始於 2008 年夏天印度的一個炎熱的下午，用一天的時間來認識婦女們以及傾聽她們的需求後，我到達了一位接生婆的茅草小屋。身為一個母親，我很好奇她怎樣在她的家裡為別人接生。她認為她的工作是一項多麽深刻的使命——關於此事，我與她促膝長談——之後在臨別時，我問她：「在接生時你會用到哪些工具？」她允許我看她的工具。「我用這個來分離母親和孩子，」她說。不知道該如何反應，我拿著這件農具，震驚了。我拍了張照片，與她相擁，然後離開。我的腦海被記憶淹沒了：我在生產後的一年內都被自身的感染折磨著，儘管當時能夠使用最好的醫療護理；以及我和我父親的對話——他在出生之時失去了母親——他認為，如果母親能夠伴隨著他成長，他的生命會大不一樣。 作為一名產品研發者，我開始了我的求索之路。我很激動地看到有一種叫做「清潔生產裝備」的產品。但幾個月來我都買不到一件。它只根據有無撥款來進行量產。最終，我終於拿到一件時，我再一次震驚了。我生孩子時絶對不會使用這些工具，我想。為了驗證我的直覺，我回到婦女們身邊，她們中一些人有使用這種產品的體驗。 你瞧瞧，她們的反應有過之而不及。婦女們表示她們寧願躺在地上生產，也不想在塑料紙上把血跡沾得到處都是。她們毫無疑問是對的——這會造成更多的感染。該工具提供的絲線，通過嬰兒的臍帶，大大增加了細菌感染的可能，使用的刀片是男人用來刮鬍子的，她們想要離這東西遠遠的。人們都沒有重新設計這款產品的動力，因為它是基於慈善事業的。這個過程中從來沒有考慮婦女的意見。令我驚奇的是，不僅是家庭中對此產品有需要，多產的公共機構中也是如此。在邊遠地區的情況甚至更加糟糕。 這一切需要改變。我把工作重心放在了這上面。通過收集用戶反饋、開發產品原型、與股東建立密切聯繫、研究全球性的協議標準，我開始了設計的流程。每一代的產品原型，我們立足於女人的需要，力求為她們製造出一款好的產品。在這個流程中我學到的是，這些女人，儘管極度貧窮，仍把她們的健康和舒適看得十分重要。她們的心靈絶不貧窮。和我們一樣，她們會欣賞一件為她們的需要而開發的、擁有良好設計的產品。 在輾轉多次和專家們、醫療衛生專家、婦女們合作之後，我該說這個過程一點也不簡單，但最後我們有了一個簡潔優美的設計。僅比原先提供的產品貴一美元——三美元，我們就能放送新的產品「janma」——裝在手提包裡的清潔生產裝備。janma 意思是「出生」，包含了為分娩婦女準備的吸納血液的紙張、外科手術刀、臍帶夾、肥皂、手套，以及把嬰兒擦乾淨用的布。這一切都裝在一個漂亮的手提包裡，這個包包，送給經歷了分娩的辛苦過程的母親當禮物，她們驕傲地把它帶回家，作為繁榮的象徵。 一位婦女對與這份禮物的反應是：「這真的屬於我嗎？我能留著它嗎？」她說。另一位說，「當我又有了一個孩子，你會給我一件另一種顔色的包包嗎？」 （笑聲） 更喜人的是，一位婦女說，這是她平生擁有的第一個包包。這件裝備，除開它的象徵意義以及簡易性，遵守了全球推薦的醫療協議標準的設計，作為一個促進行為轉變的工具，遵循著步驟來解決問題。它不僅可以在家庭中使用，在公共機構中也可以。 迄今為止，我們的裝備已經影響了世界上 60 萬母親和孩子。看著這些數字增長著，令人感到渺小自卑，我迫不及待地想讓它變成 1 億。 但是婦女的健康問題並不是到此為止了。有很多身體上的小毛病，它們都需要低成本的干預、保護。我們有證據證明：如果我們往女人和女孩身上投資，並且為她們提供更佳的健康和舒適，她們誕生的孩子會使社會更加健康、富裕、繁榮。我們必須從此開始：為婦女的健康問題帶來簡潔以及尊嚴，從降低產婦死亡率，到打破禁忌、讓婦女們掌握自己的生活。這就是我的夢想。但是，如果沒有世界上充滿熱忱的男人和女人一起合作——它是不可能實現的——對，也包括你。 我最近聽到了由李歐納·柯恩所作的這幾句歌詞：「敲擊那仍能作響的鐘，忘記你那完美的供品。萬物皆有裂痕，可那是光照進來的地方啊。」 這就是我的一點靈感。但是我們需要更多靈感。事實上，如果我們想要一個更好的明天，我們就需要對女性健康投入巨大的關注。我們絶不應忘記，女性位於永續世界的中心，沒有了她們，就沒有了我們。 謝謝你們。 （掌聲）
