Talk	en	zh-tw
9_11_healing_the_mothers_who_found_forgiveness_friendship	"Phyllis Rodriguez: We are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship. And it is. And yet, it feels natural to us now. I first learned that my son had been in the World Trade Center on the morning of September 11th, 2001. We didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later. At the time, we knew that it was political. We were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son — my husband, Orlando, and I and our family. And when I saw it — and yet, through the shock, the terrible shock, and the terrible explosion in our lives, literally, we were not vengeful. And a couple of weeks later when Zacarias Moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism, and the U.S. government called for a death penalty for him, if convicted, my husband and I spoke out in opposition to that, publicly. Through that and through human rights groups, we were brought together with several other victims' families. When I saw Aicha in the media, coming over when her son was indicted, and I thought, ""What a brave woman. Someday I want to meet that woman when I'm stronger."" I was still in deep grief; I knew I didn't have the strength. I knew I would find her someday, or we would find each other. Because, when people heard that my son was a victim, I got immediate sympathy. But when people learned what her son was accused of, she didn't get that sympathy. But her suffering is equal to mine. So we met in November 2002, and Aicha will now tell you how that came about. (Translator) Aicha el-Wafi: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am the mother of Zacarias Moussaoui. And I asked the Organization of Human Rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims. So they introduced me to five families. And I saw Phyllis, and I watched her. She was the only mother in the group. The others were brothers, sisters. And I saw in her eyes that she was a mother, just like me. I suffered a lot as a mother. I was married when I was 14. I lost a child when I was 15, a second child when I was 16. So the story with Zacarias was too much really. And I still suffer, because my son is like he's buried alive. I know she really cried for her son. But she knows where he is. My son, I don't know where he is. I don't know if he's alive. I don't know if he's tortured. I don't know what happened to him. So that's why I decided to tell my story, so that my suffering is something positive for other women. For all the women, all the mothers that give life, you can give back, you can change. It's up to us women, because we are women, because we love our children. We must be hand-in-hand and do something together. It's not against women, it's for us, for us women, for our children. I talk against violence, against terrorism. I go to schools to talk to young, Muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young. So if I can save one of the young girls, and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as I did, well this is something good. This is why I'm here in front of you. PR: I would like to say that I have learned so much from Aicha, starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members — which was a very private meeting with security, because it was November 2002, and, frankly, we were afraid of the super-patriotism of that time in the country — those of us family members. But we were all so nervous. ""Why does she want to meet us?"" And then she was nervous. ""Why did we want to meet her?"" What did we want from each other? Before we knew each others' names, or anything, we had embraced and wept. Then we sat in a circle with support, with help, from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation. And Aicha started, and she said, ""I don't know if my son is guilty or innocent, but I want to tell you how sorry I am for what happened to your families. I know what it is to suffer, and I feel that if there is a crime, a person should be tried fairly and punished."" But she reached out to us in that way, and it was, I'd like to say, it was an ice-breaker. And what happened then is we all told our stories, and we all connected as human beings. By the end of the afternoon — it was about three hours after lunch — we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever. Now what I learned from her, is a woman, not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then, and what was being done to her son, but the life she's had. I never had met someone with such a hard life, from such a totally different culture and environment from my own. And I feel that we have a special connection, which I value very much. And I think it's all about being afraid of the other, but making that step and then realizing, ""Hey, this wasn't so hard. Who else can I meet that I don't know, or that I'm so different from?"" So, Aicha, do you have a couple of words for conclusion? Because our time is up. (Laughter) (Translator) AW: I wanted to say that we have to try to know other people, the other. You have to be generous, and your hearts must be generous, your mind must be generous. You must be tolerant. You have to fight against violence. And I hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other. This is what I wanted to say. (Applause)"	我們今天在此因為這個事實我們擁有大多數人所認為的不尋常的友情。這是,即使如此, 但現在, 我們都感到很自然。 我第一次知道我的兒子在世界貿易中心在二零零一年九月十一日的早上。我們並不知道他是否遇害直到三十六小時之後。當時，我們知道這是政治的原因。我們都很擔心我們的國家將會做些什麼事以我們兒子之名—-我的丈夫, 我, 以及我的家人當我們看到—-雖然, 很震驚很可怕的震驚，也是我們生命裡的可怕的爆炸但是我們沒有想著要報仇。數個星期之後當Zacharias Moussaoui 被指控六項恐佈襲擊的陰謀時，美國政府要求對他判處死刑如果罪名成立的話。我和我的丈夫對公開反對這判決。透過這也透過人權組織，我們跟其他受害者家屬組織起來了 當我在媒體上看到Aichia，為她的兒子的起訴而走過來的時候，我在想: 「這真是一個勇敢的女人。我希望有一天, 當我強壯一點的時候, 可以跟她見面。」我仍在深深的哀傷之中；我知道我沒有這份力氣。但我知道我有一天會去找她，或, 我們會去找到對方。因為, 當別人聽到我的兒子是受害者，我即時得到同情。但當人們知道她的兒子所被指控的事,她沒有得到同樣的同情。可是, 她的痛苦是跟我相同的。 我們在二零零二年十一月相見。現在Aicha會告訴你這些事情是怎樣發生的。 〈傳譯〉Aicha el-Wafi:午安, 各位先生和女士。我是Zacharias Moussaoui 的媽媽。我去要求人權組織讓我去接觸那些受害人的父母。所以他們介紹我給給五個家庭認識。我看見Phyllis, 我一直留意著她。她是那個小組裡唯一的媽媽。其他都是兄弟或是姊妹。我從她的眼睛看到她也是一個媽媽, 跟我一樣的。我作為一個媽媽很痛苦。我十四歲便已經結了婚。我在十五歲的時候失去了一個孩子,當我十六歲時失去了第二個孩子。所以和Zacharias的故事實在是太過深刻了。但我仍然痛苦，因為我兒子就像是被活埋了一樣。我知道她真的為兒子而哭。但她知道他在哪裡，我的兒子, 我不知道他在那裡。我不知道他是否仍然生存, 不知道他是否受到折磨。我不知道他發生了什麼事。 於是, 我決定去說我的故事，希望令我痛苦的事, 對其他女性來說, 可以有正面的意義。對所有的女人,所有賦予生命的媽媽,你可以貢獻，你可以改變。這取決於我們女人,因為我們都是女人，因為我們愛我們的孩子。我們一定要手牽手一起去做一些事。這不是反對女性這是為我們, 為我們女人為我們的孩子。我講反抗暴力, 反抗恐佈主義。我去學校跟年青的伊斯蘭女孩講說令她們不去接受那些不符自己意願的早婚。於是, 我可以拯救其中一些女孩，以及防止她的早婚令她們跟我們一樣的受苦，我想, 這是一些好的事情。這也是為什麼我會在你們面前。 PR:我會說我在Aicha 身上學到很多東西，由我們第一次的見面開始也跟其他的家庭成員—-這是一個高度保密的私人會面,因為當時是二零零二年十一月，誠然, 我們也害怕當時國家裡的超級愛國主義—-我們那些家庭成員。我們全部人都好緊張。「她為什麼想去見我們呢?」接著, 她也十分緊張「為什麼我們會想去見她呢?」我們大家想在對方身上得到些什麼呢?在我們知道大家的名字或是其他東西之前，我們已經相擁而哭了。在那些曾經經歷過和解的人的協助之下,讓我們在互相支持和幫助的圍坐在一圈由Aicha 開始，她說：「我不知道我的兒子是有罪還是無罪，但我想告訴你, 我是怎樣的難過為著你家中所發生的事情。我知道這是怎樣的難受我認為, 如果這是一個罪行那個人應該得到公平的審判及懲罸。」她就是這樣的接觸我們。這是, 我會說這是一個破冰的過程。接著發生的事, 我們每人都說了自己的故事，我們都作為人而被連繫著。在那個下午完結的時候—-大概是午餐後的三小時—-我們都感到好像大家已經認識了很久。 從她身上我學習到，作為一個女人, 不單止是她可以如此的寬容即使在那時的處境以及往後的日子,和所有在她兒子身上所發生的,而這就是她所經歷的人生。我從來沒有遇過別人有著如她一樣的刻苦的人生，並且是來自一個跟自己全然不同的文化和環境。我感到我們有一種很特別的連繫，這是我非常珍惜的。我想由互相害怕，但走了這樣一步接著發現, 「啊, 這也不是很困難。還有那個我不認識的人或是跟我很不一樣的人, 我不可以跟他見面呢?」 所以, Aicha你可有些說話去做總結因為我們的時間到了 笑聲 〈傳譯〉AW:我想說我們都努力嘗試去認識其他人。我們都要寬容,你的心也要寬容,你的心念也要寬容。你一定要堅忍,你要去反抗暴力。我希望有一天, 我們都能夠以和平以及尊重活在一起。這是我想說的。 掌聲
