Talk	en	zh-tw
a_j_jacobs_year_of_living_biblically	"I thought I'd tell you a little about what I like to write. And I like to immerse myself in my topics. I just like to dive right in and become sort of a human guinea pig. And I see my life as a series of experiments. So, I work for Esquire magazine, and a couple of years ago, I wrote an article called ""My Outsourced Life,"" where I hired a team of people in Bangalore, India, to live my life for me. So, they answered my emails. They answered my phone. They argued with my wife for me, and they read my son bedtime stories. It was the best month of my life, because I just sat back and I read books and watched movies. It was a wonderful experience. More recently, I wrote an article for Esquire called — about radical honesty. And this is a movement where — this is started by a psychologist in Virginia, who says that you should never, ever lie, except maybe during poker and golf, his only exceptions. And, more than that, whatever is on your brain should come out of your mouth. So, I decided I would try this for a month. This was the worst month of my life. (Laughter) I do not recommend this at all. To give you a sense of the experience, the article was called, ""I Think You're Fat."" (Laughter) So, that was hard. My most recent book — my previous book was called ""The Know-It-All,"" and it was about the year I spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z in my quest to learn everything in the world, or more precisely from Aak, which is a type of East Asian music, all the way to Zwyiec, which is — well, I don't want to ruin the ending. (Laughter) It's a very exciting twist ending, like an O. Henry novel, so I won't ruin it. But I love that one, because that was an experiment about how much information one human brain could absorb. Although, listening to Kevin Kelly, you don't have to remember anything. You can just Google it. So, I wasted some time there. I love those experiments, but I think that the most profound and life-changing experiment that I've done is my most recent experiment, where I spent a year trying to follow all of the rules of the Bible, ""The Year of Living Biblically."" And I undertook this for two reasons. The first was that I grew up with no religion at all. As I say in my book, I'm Jewish in the same way the Olive Garden is Italian. (Laughter) So, not very. But I've become increasingly interested in religion. I do think it's the defining issue of our time, or one of the main ones. And I have a son. I want to know what to teach him. So, I decided to dive in head first, and try to live the Bible. The second reason I undertook this is because I'm concerned about the rise of fundamentalism, religious fundamentalism, and people who say they take the Bible literally, which is, according to some polls, as high as 45 or 50 percent of America. So I decided, what if you really did take the Bible literally? I decided to take it to its logical conclusion and take everything in the Bible literally, without picking and choosing. The first thing I did was I got a stack of bibles. I had Christian bibles. I had Jewish bibles. A friend of mine sent me something called a hip-hop bible, where the twenty-third Psalm is rendered as, ""The Lord is all that,"" as opposed to what I knew it as, ""The Lord is my shepherd."" Then I went down and I read several versions, and I wrote down every single law that I could find. And this was a very long list — over 700 rules. And they range from the famous ones that I had heard of — The Ten Commandments, love your neighbor, be fruitful and multiply. So I wanted to follow those. And actually, I take my projects very seriously, because I had twins during my year, so I definitely take my projects seriously. But I also wanted to follow the hundreds of arcane and obscure laws that are in the Bible. There is the law in Leviticus, ""You cannot shave the corners of your beard."" I didn't know where my corners were, so I decided to let the whole thing grow, and this is what I looked like by the end. As you can imagine, I spent a lot of time at airport security. (Laughter) My wife wouldn't kiss me for the last two months. So, certainly the challenge was there. The Bible says you cannot wear clothes made of mixed fibers, so I thought, ""Sounds strange, but I'll try it."" You only know if you try it. I got rid of all my poly-cotton T-shirts. The Bible says that if two men are in a fight, and the wife of one of those men grabs the testicles of the other man, then her hand shall be cut off. So, I wanted to follow that rule. (Laughter) That one I followed by default, by not getting in a fight with a man whose wife was standing nearby, looking like she had a strong grip. (Laughter) So — oh, there's another shot of my beard. I will say it was an amazing year because it really was life changing, and incredibly challenging. And there were two types of laws that were particularly challenging. The first was avoiding the little sins that we all commit every day. You know, I could spend a year not killing, but spending a year not gossiping, not coveting, not lying — you know, I live in New York, and I work as a journalist, so this was 75, 80 percent of my day I had to do it. But it was really interesting, because I was able to make some progress, because I couldn't believe how much my behavior changed my thoughts. This was one of the huge lessons of the year, is that I almost pretended to be a better person, and I became a little bit of a better person. So I had always thought, you know, ""You change your mind, and you change your behavior,"" but it's often the other way around. You change your behavior, and you change your mind. So, you know, if you want to become more compassionate, you visit sick people in the hospital, and you will become more compassionate. You donate money to a cause, and you become emotionally involved in that cause. So, it really was cognitive psychology — you know, cognitive dissonance — that I was experiencing. The Bible actually talks about cognitive psychology, very primitive cognitive psychology. In the Proverbs, it says that if you smile, you will become happier, which, as we know, is actually true. The second type of rule that was difficult to obey was the rules that will get you into a little trouble in twenty-first-century America. And perhaps the clearest example of this is stoning adulterers. (Laughter) But it's a big part of the Bible, so I figured I had to address it. So, I was able to stone one adulterer. It happened — I was in the park, and I was dressed in my biblical clothing, so sandals and sort of a white robe, you know, because again, the outer affects the inner. I wanted to see how dressing biblically affected my mind. And this man came up to me and he said, ""Why are you dressed like that?"" And I explained my project, and he said, ""Well, I am an adulterer, are you going to stone me?"" And I said, ""Well, that would be great!"" (Laughter) And I actually took out a handful of stones from my pocket that I had been carrying around for weeks, hoping for just this interaction — and, you know, they were pebbles — but he grabbed them out of my hand. He was actually an elderly man, mid-70s, just so you know. But he's still an adulterer, and still quite angry. He grabbed them out of my hand and threw them at my face, and I felt that I could — eye for an eye — I could retaliate, and throw one back at him. So that was my experience stoning, and it did allow me to talk about, in a more serious way, these big issues. How can the Bible be so barbaric in some places, and yet so incredibly wise in others? How should we view the Bible? Should we view it, you know, as original intent, like a sort of a Scalia version of the Bible? How was the Bible written? And actually, since this is a tech crowd, I talk in the book about how the Bible actually reminds me of the Wikipedia, because it has all of these authors and editors over hundreds of years. And it's sort of evolved. It's not a book that was written and came down from on high. So I thought I would end by telling you just a couple of the take-aways, the bigger lessons that I learned from my year. The first is, thou shalt not take the Bible literally. This became very, very clear, early on. Because if you do, then you end up acting like a crazy person, and stoning adulterers, or — here's another example. Well, that's another. I did spend some time shepherding. (Laughter) It's a very relaxing vocation. I recommend it. But this one is — the Bible says that you cannot touch women during certain times of the month, and more than that, you cannot sit on a seat where a menstruating woman has sat. And my wife thought this was very offensive, so she sat in every seat in our apartment, and I had to spend much of the year standing until I bought my own seat and carried it around. So, you know, I met with creationists. I went to the creationists' museum. And these are the ultimate literalists. And it was fascinating, because they were not stupid people at all. I would wager that their IQ is exactly the same as the average evolutionist. It's just that their faith is so strong in this literal interpretation of the Bible that they distort all the data to fit their model. And they go through these amazing mental gymnastics to accomplish this. And I will say, though, the museum is gorgeous. They really did a fantastic job. If you're ever in Kentucky, there's, you can see a movie of the flood, and they have sprinklers in the ceiling that will sprinkle on you during the flood scenes. So, whatever you think of creationism — and I think it's crazy — they did a great job. (Laughter) Another lesson is that thou shalt give thanks. And this one was a big lesson because I was praying, giving these prayers of thanksgiving, which was odd for an agnostic. But I was saying thanks all the time, every day, and I started to change my perspective. And I started to realize the hundreds of little things that go right every day, that I didn't even notice, that I took for granted, as opposed to focusing on the three or four that went wrong. So, this is actually a key to happiness for me, is to just remember when I came over here, the car didn't flip over, and I didn't trip coming up the stairs. It's a remarkable thing. Third, that thou shall have reverence. This one was unexpected because I started the year as an agnostic, and by the end of the year, I became what a friend of mine calls a reverent agnostic, which I love. And I'm trying to start it as a movement. So, if anyone wants to join, the basic idea is, whether or not there is a God, there's something important and beautiful about the idea of sacredness, and that our rituals can be sacred. The Sabbath can be sacred. This was one of the great things about my year, doing the Sabbath, because I am a workaholic, so having this one day where you cannot work, it really, that changed my life. So, this idea of sacredness, whether or not there is a God. Thou shall not stereotype. This one happened because I spent a lot of time with various religious communities throughout America because I wanted it to be more than about my journey. I wanted it to be about religion in America. So, I spent time with evangelical Christians, and Hasidic Jews, and the Amish. I'm very proud because I think I'm the only person in America to out Bible-talk a Jehovah's Witness. (Laughter) After three and a half hours, he looked at his watch, he's like, ""I gotta go."" (Laughter) Oh, thank you very much. Thank you. Bless you, bless you. But it was interesting because I had some very preconceived notions about, for instance, evangelical Christianity, and I found that it's such a wide and varied movement that it is difficult to make generalizations about it. There's a group I met with called the Red Letter Christians, and they focus on the red words in the Bible, which are the ones that Jesus spoke. That's how they printed them in the old Bibles. And their argument is that Jesus never talked about homosexuality. They have a pamphlet that says, ""Here's what Jesus said about homosexuality,"" and you open it up, and there's nothing in it. So, they say Jesus did talk a lot about helping the outcasts, helping poor people. So, this was very inspiring to me. I recommend Jim Wallis and Tony Campolo. They're very inspiring leaders, even though I disagree with much of what they say. Also, thou shalt not disregard the irrational. This one was very unexpected because, you know, I grew up with the scientific worldview, and I was shocked learning how much of my life is governed by irrational forces. And the thing is, if they're not harmful, they're not to be completely dismissed. Because I learned that — I was thinking, I was doing all these rituals, these biblical rituals, separating my wool and linen, and I would ask these religious people ""Why would the Bible possibly tell us to do this? Why would God care?"" And they said, ""We don't know, but it's just rituals that give us meaning."" And I would say, ""But that's crazy."" And they would say, ""Well, what about you? You blow out candles on top of a birthday cake. If a guy from Mars came down and saw, here's one guy blowing out the fire on top of a cake versus another guy not wearing clothes of mixed fabrics, would the Martians say, 'Well, that guy, he makes sense, but that guy's crazy?'"" So no, I think that rituals are, by nature, irrational. So the key is to choose the right rituals, the ones that are not harmful — but rituals by themselves are not to be dismissed. And finally I learned that thou shall pick and choose. And this one I learned because I tried to follow everything in the Bible. And I failed miserably. Because you can't. You have to pick and choose. And anyone who follows the Bible is going to be picking and choosing. The key is to pick and choose the right parts. There's the phrase called cafeteria religion, and the fundamentalists will use it in a denigrating way, and they'll say, ""Oh, it's just cafeteria religion. You're just picking and choosing."" But my argument is, ""What's wrong with cafeterias?"" I've had some great meals at cafeterias. I've also had some meals that make me want to dry heave. So, it's about choosing the parts of the Bible about compassion, about tolerance, about loving your neighbor, as opposed to the parts about homosexuality is a sin, or intolerance, or violence, which are very much in the Bible as well. So if we are to find any meaning in this book, then we have to really engage it, and wrestle with it. And I thought I'd end with just a couple more. There's me reading the Bible. That's how I hailed taxicabs. (Laughter) Seriously, and it worked. And yes, that was actually a rented sheep, so I had to return that in the morning, but it served well for a day. So, anyway, thank you so much for letting me speak."	"我打算跟你們聊些我想要寫作的東西。我喜歡完全投入我的研究題目。我直接切入題目中，以自己為白老鼠。我的生活像是一系列的實驗。 幾年前我為Esquire(風尚)雜誌工作。我寫了一篇文章叫做""我的外包生活""我雇用了在印度班加羅爾的一個團隊,來過我的生活。所以他們幫我回電子郵件。他們幫我聽電話。他們為我和我的老婆吵嘴，且幫我替兒子讀床邊故事。這是我生活中最美好的一個月,因為我只要放輕鬆，看書或看電影。這是一個很棒的經驗。 到最近我為 Esquire 雜誌寫了一篇文章叫做—關於絕對誠實。這是個風潮—由一位維吉尼亞的心理學家開始的,他說人應該絕不能說謊,除非在打牌或是高爾夫球中例外。並且甚至，當任何事情出現在你的腦中應該大聲說出來。我決定要來試試看這種方式生活一個月。這是我一生命中最糟的一個月。(笑聲)我完全不建議這樣做。我這樣講你就瞭解了，這篇文章叫做""我覺得你很胖""(笑聲)所以這是很困難的。 我最近期的一本書—我的前一本書叫做""全部都知道""這是我花了一年的時間閱讀大英百科全書從A到Z想要學習世界上的一切事物,或更精確的說從 ""雅樂""(A-ak)一種東亞的音樂,到最後一條""日維茨""(Zywiec)這是—我不想搞砸了演講的結尾。(笑聲)能夠在結尾做轉折是令人興奮的,像是O. Henry的小說,所以我不想搞砸它。但我喜歡這想法因為那是一個關於人腦能吸收多少資訊的實驗,雖然,根據Kevin Kelly的說法,你只要能夠在Google查到它就不需要記得這件事了。所以我浪費了點時間在這。 我喜歡那些實驗,但是我覺得最奧妙且改變生命的實驗是我最近剛完成的實驗,我花了一年的時間嘗試按照聖經上指導的原則生活—""依照聖經指導原則生活的一年""並且我想這樣做有兩個原因。第一我成長在一個完全沒有宗教的環境。並且如同我書上所說, 說我是個猶太人就像""橄欖花園""(美式義大利餐廳)被當成義大利餐廳，一樣離譜(笑聲)所以,當然不是這樣。但是我已經對宗教越來越有興趣。我認為, 在我們的生活中, 這是一個明確的議題,或者說是主要的議題之一。而且我有一個兒子。我想要知道拿什麼去教他。所以我決定投入其中，並且嘗試依照聖經而活。 第二個原因我決定這樣做，是因為我對基督教基本教義的興起有興趣,很多人聲稱他們完全依照聖經。根據調查有百分之45或50的美國人，按著聖經的教導過生活。所以我決定看看，真正依照聖經教導行事會怎樣?我決定接受它和它的邏輯上的推論接受一切聖經上字面的說法,不去挑選。 首先，我找到一堆聖經。我有基督教聖經。我有猶太教聖經。我的一個朋友送我一本叫做「嘻哈聖經」,其中詩篇第23中所稱""神是一切""相對的，就我所知應該是""神是我的牧者"" 然後我閱讀了幾個版本,並且我寫下每一我能找到的律法。這是一個很長的清單—超過700條律法。並且這些包含一些有名的律法一些我曾經聽過的—""十戒""、""愛你的鄰人""、""多結果子和生養眾多""。所以我要遵循這些。我很認真執行這個計畫因為這年，我生了雙胞胎,所以我確實認真的執行這計劃。 但是我想按照這上百條在聖經中神秘且晦澀的律法。這些是在利未記中的律法—""鬍鬚的周圍不可損壞。""我不知道哪裡是我的周圍,所以我決定留鬍鬚,這是我最後看起來的樣子。你可想而知,我花了很長的時間在機場安檢部門。(笑聲)最後的二個月，我太太不肯親我。所以,當然這是一項挑戰。 聖經上說，不能穿混合纖維的衣物。所以我想：""這聽起來很奇怪，但是我要試試看。""你只知道如果你嘗試它。我處理掉所有混棉的T恤。聖經上說，如果有兩個男人在打架,且其中一個男人的太太抓另一個男人睪丸,那麼她的手就要砍斷。所以,我想要遵循這個律法。(笑聲)我遵循這律法的方式就是 —不要和人打架，如果他的太太就站在附近的話,且她看起來有很強的抓力。(笑聲)所以—喔,這是另一張我鬍子的照片。 我會說這是驚奇的一年。因為這真正是生活的改變，且是難以想像的挑戰。並且還有兩種律法，特別挑戰。第一是避免一些我們每天都會犯的小錯。我能夠一整年不殺生,但是一整年不說閒話,不貪心,不說謊—我生活在紐約，而且我是一個記者,所以我的生活中有75至80%，要做這些。 但是這是很有趣的，因為我能夠做一些改善因為我不相信我的行為能改變多少我的想法。這是這一年，我學到的重大學習之一我幾乎假裝成一個比較好的人,且我真的有一點點變好。以前，我總是認為,""你改變了內心,然後行為才會改變"",但是我發現，經常是相反的。當你改變行為,然後你改變了你的內心。所以,你知道的,如果你想要變得更有同情心,你去醫院探望生病的人,然後你會變得比較慈善。為某件事捐錢,然後你就放感情在那件事裡面，所以,這是認知心裡學 —認知的不一致—這是我經歷的。聖經實際上是關於認知心裡學,非常基礎的認知心裡學。箴言 這樣說,如果你微笑,你會變得比較快樂,就像我們知道的一樣,這是真的。 第二種非常難去遵循的律法是這些律法會讓我們遇到小麻煩在21世紀的美國。一個明顯的例子是：拿石頭打通姦的人。(笑聲)但是，這是聖經的很大一部份,所以我認為我必需行出來。所以,我真的拿石頭打了一個通姦者。它發生了—我當時在公園而且我穿著我聖經式的裝扮—涼鞋和白長袍 —你知道,因為剛剛所說,外在影響內心。我想了解聖經式的裝扮，如何影響我的內心。然後這個男人過來找我並說,""你為什麼要穿成這樣?""然後我解釋我的這個計畫,然後他說：""喔,我是一個姦夫,你打算拿石頭打我嗎?""然後我說：""哇! 這很棒喔!""(笑聲)然後我從口袋中拿出滿手的石頭那是我已經帶著這些石頭幾個禮拜了,期待這種情況發生— 然後,你知道的,這些是小卵石—但是那個男人把石頭從我手中奪走。他其實是一個年長者,七十多歲但是他仍然是姦夫，而且看起來很生氣。他把石頭從我手上奪走並且往我臉上丟,然後我感到我能—""以眼還眼"",我能報復,我就往他後背丟一個。 所以這就是我的丟石頭經驗。這讓我更能嚴肅的談論這些重要議題，如：為何聖經在某些部分這麼的野蠻?且又在其他部分又難以置信的有智慧?我們該如何看待聖經?我們應該看待它,你知道的,就當成它的本意,像是一種Scalia(美國大法官)版本的聖經?聖經是如何寫成?然而,既然這是一個技術集會,讓我想這麼說聖經讓我想起維基百科,因為它是由許多人編輯、撰寫而成的並橫跨數百年之久。撰寫聖經可以說是一種演進過程，而不是一本從天上掉下來、已經寫好的書。 所以我想在結尾告訴你們只是幾個像可外帶，且比較大的學習從我這一年學來的第一個是—諸位切莫逐字的理解聖經。這是一開始就很清楚的。因為如果你這樣做你最終會像個瘋子,拿石頭丟姦夫,或者—這裡有一另個例子—好的,這是另一個—我花了很多時間牧羊。(笑聲)這是一個很令人輕鬆的職業。我很推薦。 但這一個是,聖經告訴我們不能碰女人在每個月的某些時間，更甚者—你不能坐在經期婦女曾做過的椅子。我太太覺得這很侮辱女人,所以她把我們家裡的每一個椅子都做了一遍,所以我必須在這一年大部分時間都站著直到我買了一張自己的椅子並且隨身攜帶。 所以,你知道的,我遇到一個相信創世紀的人(反對進化論的人)。我去了關於創世紀的博物館。他們是最會咬文嚼字的人。然而這很有趣，因為他們並不是笨蛋。我敢打賭他們的智商，完全跟相信進化論的人一樣。只是他們有著很強的信仰執著於聖經上的字面解釋所以扭曲事實資料，來符合他們的理論。然後他們經由神奇的心理訓練來達成。 然而我要說的是,這博物館相當華麗。他們真的完成了一個很棒的工作。如果你曾經去過美國肯塔基州,就是這—你會看到一個關於大洪水的電影,他們在天花板上裝灑水器當播放到洪水畫面時，你就會被噴到水。所以,不管你對創世紀論者看法怎樣 (我是覺得這蠻瘋狂)他們做了一個很出色的工作。(笑聲) 另一個教訓是：諸位應當心存感恩。這是一個很重要的教誨，因為我禱告,獻上感謝,這對於不可知論者來說 很怪。但是我嘴上常掛著感謝,無論何時,然而我開始改變我的看法,而且開始了解數以百計的小事情那些順遂的事,那些我不曾注意到的小事。那些被當作裡所當然的—而不是去注意那些出錯的三四件事情。所以,這是幸福的秘訣,對我來說,只要提醒自己：當我來這裡的時候車子沒有翻覆,我沒被階梯絆倒。這是件很棒的事。 第三,諸位應心存尊敬。這事件意外的體會。因為我剛開始是一個不可知論者，但是到這一年結束時我變成一個虔敬的不可知論者。我的朋友這樣叫我,我喜歡這樣的稱號。然而我嘗試把虔敬，變成一種風潮。所以如果有任何人想參與,基本的構想是,不論有沒有上帝,我們都一些重要且美好神聖想法,而且，我們的儀式是神聖的。安息日是神聖的。我的這一年中的一件大事是守安息日,因為我是一個工作狂,所以有這樣一天我不能工作—這著實改變我的生活。所以,這是一個神聖的觀念,無關於有沒有神。 諸位切莫執著。這個體會來自於我花了許多時間，參加美國各地的不同的宗教團體，因為我希望這不是個人的旅程，而是體驗美國宗教的經驗。所以我花時間在福音派基督教、哈西德教派，阿米緒教派。我很自豪因為，我認為我是美國唯一能夠說倒「耶和華見證人」的人(笑聲)過了三小時半,他看著他的手錶,他說：""我必須走了。""(笑聲)噢,非常謝謝你。謝謝你。祝福你,祝福你。 但是這很有趣因為我有一些先入為主的想法,例如,福音派基督教,我發現這是一個廣泛的風潮很難概括解釋。我曾遇到一個團體叫做紅字基督徒,他們聚焦於聖經上的那些紅字,那些耶穌說過的話—在舊聖經中被印成紅字的。他們說，耶穌沒有講過同性戀的事情。他們有一個小冊子,上面說："" 這是耶穌對同性戀的說法""然而當你打開它,裡面什麼都沒有。所以他們聲稱，耶穌談論了很多關於幫助無家可歸,幫助窮人的事。所以這對我是很大的啟發。我推薦 Jim Wallace 和 Tony Campole。他們是很能鼓舞人心的領袖，即使我並不認同 —他們多數的言論。 還有,諸位不能漠視無理的事。這是非常出乎預料的。因為,你們知道,我在一個科學的世界觀中成長。然而我十分震驚的發現，我的生命，其實是由不理性的力量主宰。然而，如果這些是無害的，就沒必要被完全去除。因為我學到—我在想,我做的這些儀式,這些聖經上的儀式,區分羊毛和麻布質料。 我問那些虔誠的人""為什麼聖經要這樣告訴我們?上帝為什麼在意這些?""然而他們說：""我們不知道,這只是個賦予我們意義的儀式。""我說,""這很瘋狂!""他們會說：""噢,那你不是嗎?""你會吹熄生日蛋糕上的蠟燭，這也是個儀式。如果一個來自火星的傢伙看到,他會說：""這有一個傢伙吹熄蛋糕上面的火""對比於另一個不穿混紡衣服的人,火星人會說""噢,這傢伙很理性,但是那傢伙很瘋狂""嗎?不會,所以,那些儀式是不理性的。所以,關鍵是選擇正確的儀式,那些無害的儀式—儀式本身不該被去除。 然而,最終,我學到：諸位應該有所選擇。這是因為我想要去遵循聖經上所有的東西。然後我失敗的很慘。因為你做不到。你必須有所選擇,然而任何遵循聖經的人都不是照單全收的關鍵是：選擇正確的部分。有一個詞彙叫做""自助餐式宗教""基本教義派，把這個字用於輕蔑的意思,他們會說：""噢,這不就是自助餐式宗教罷了。你只是選自己喜歡的去做。""但我認為：""自助餐又怎樣?""我在自助餐廳有吃得很開心的經驗。也有難吃得想吐的經驗。所以,這是關於選擇聖經中有關惻隱之心,寬容、愛你的鄰人的那些部分,不選擇「同性戀是一種罪」、或偏狹的,或暴力的這些部份，在聖經裡，也相當的多。所以我們若想在這本書中找到意義,我們必須真正投入於它,並且與它爭戰。 然而結束前我想我在說幾件事。這是我正在閱讀聖經的照片。這是我如何招呼計程車。(笑聲)它是有效的—且是的,那其實是租來的羊,所以我必須在早晨歸還,但是牠整天都被照顧的很好。所以,不論如何,很謝謝你們讓我來演講。"
