Talk	en	zh-tw
a_robot_that_flies_like_a_bird	It is a dream of mankind to fly like a bird. Birds are very agile. They fly, not with rotating components, so they fly only by flapping their wings. So we looked at the birds, and we tried to make a model that is powerful, ultralight, and it must have excellent aerodynamic qualities that would fly by its own and only by flapping its wings. So what would be better than to use the herring gull, in its freedom, circling and swooping over the sea, and to use this as a role model? So we bring a team together. There are generalists and also specialists in the field of aerodynamics, in the field of building gliders. And the task was to build an ultralight indoor-flying model that is able to fly over your heads. So be careful later on. (Laughter) And this was one issue: to build it that lightweight that no one would be hurt if it fell down. So why do we do all this? We are a company in the field of automation, and we'd like to do very lightweight structures because that's energy efficient, and we'd like to learn more about pneumatics and air flow phenomena. So I now would like you to put your seat belts on and put your hats on. So maybe we'll try it once — to fly a SmartBird. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers) (Applause) (Applause ends) (Applause) So we can now look at the SmartBird. So here is one without a skin. We have a wingspan of about two meters. The length is one meter and six, and the weight is only 450 grams. And it is all out of carbon fiber. In the middle we have a motor, and we also have a gear in it, and we use the gear to transfer the circulation of the motor. So within the motor, we have three Hall sensors, so we know exactly where the wing is. And if we now beat up and down — (Mechanical sounds) We have the possibility to fly like a bird. So if you go down, you have the large area of propulsion, and if you go up, the wings are not that large, and it is easier to get up. So, the next thing we did, or the challenges we did, was to coordinate this movement. We have to turn it, go up and go down. We have a split wing. With the split wing, we get the lift at the upper wing, and we get the propulsion at the lower wing. Also, we see how we measure the aerodynamic efficiency. We had knowledge about the electromechanical efficiency and then we can calculate the aerodynamic efficiency. So therefore, it rises up from passive torsion to active torsion, from 30 percent up to 80 percent. Next thing we have to do, we have to control and regulate the whole structure. Only if you control and regulate it, you will get that aerodynamic efficiency. So the overall consumption of energy is about 25 watts at takeoff and 16 to 18 watts in flight. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Markus, we should fly it once more. Markus Fischer: Yeah, sure. (Audience) Yeah! (Laughter) (Gasps) (Cheers) (Applause)	人類的夢想──像鳥一樣的遨翔。鳥類是非常輕快敏捷的它們飛行靠的不是旋轉的機械零件而是藉由振動雙翼飛翔。所以我們盯著鳥類觀察,企圖建構一個模型是高功率、超輕型的飛行器它必須具備極佳的航空動力學的特性──能夠自體飛行而且只靠拍動翅膀。 那麼有什麼會比使用銀鷗（為模型典範）更好！它自由自在地在海上盤旋俯衝,我們以它做為模型主角。我們組成一個團隊,團隊中,有萬事通也有來自某個領域的專家有航空動力學領域的專家也有打造滑翔機的專家。而任務是製造一架超輕型的室內飛行模型,能飛越你們的頭頂。所以,稍會兒大家請小心而且製作時有個議題:將它製造得那樣的輕就沒有人會受傷,如果它掉下來的話。 那麼為何我們要做這些事？我們是一間經營自動化的公司,想要製作極輕的結構體因為那符合「能源效率」。而且我們想知道更多關於氣動力學(pneumatics)和氣流現象。 那麼現在請你們繫上安全帶戴上安全帽也許我們來試飛一次,讓「聰明鳥」展翅飛翔。謝謝大家 (掌聲響起) (掌聲又起) (掌聲如雷) 那我們現在就來看看「聰明鳥」的結構。這有一隻沒有外殼包覆的鳥模型展翼約二米長身長一米六,而重量只有450克骨架材質是碳纖維在中間有個發動機在內部還有齒輪而且我們用齒輪協助馬達傳動。在發動機內部,有三個霍爾感測器(Hall sensors),所以能確切辨識翅膀拍動的位置若翅膀能上下拍動就有可能像鳥那樣飛行。翅膀向下拍,就會有充裕的空間作推進翅膀向上揚起,翅膀的幅度就沒那麼大那就更容易起飛。 所以,接下來我們得做的或者說我們挑戰的下一個任務是調節翅膀的動作讓翅膀可以上下振動我們將羽翼分節。因羽翼分節上翼可協助上升下翼產生推進力我們也監管我們測量「空氣動力效率」的過程我們熟諳機電效能,我們能計算空氣動力效率,測得結果是,它升起時從被動扭力轉至積極扭力效能從百分之三十提升至百分之八十 接下來我們必須做的事是控管及校準整個架構。唯有控管和校準整體架構,才能達到「空氣動力效率」的功效。所以總消耗能量是起飛需要電量約25瓦特飛行則是16至18瓦特。謝謝大家 (掌聲) Bruno Giussani(TED歐洲主管):我認為,我們應該讓它再飛一次 當然好啊 笑笑 (驚呼) (歡呼喝采) (掌聲如雷)
