Talk	en	zh-tw
a_whistleblower_you_haven_t_heard	"(Whistling) (Whistling ends) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. That was whistling. I'm trying to do this in English. What is a chubby, curly-haired guy from Holland — why is he whistling? Well actually, I've been whistling since the age of four, about four. My dad was always whistling around the house, and I just thought that's part of communication in my family. So I whistled along with him. And actually, until I was 34, I always annoyed and irritated people with whistling, because, to be honest, my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior. I whistled alone, I whistled in the classroom, I whistled on bike, I whistled everywhere. And I also whistled at a Christmas Eve party with my family-in-law. And they had some, in my opinion, terrible Christmas music. And when I hear music that I don't like, I try to make it better. (Laughter) So when ""Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer"" — you know it? (Whistling) But it can also sound like this. (Whistling) But during a Christmas party — at dinner, actually — it's very annoying. So my sister-in-law asked me a few times, ""Please stop whistling."" And I just couldn't. And at one point — and I had some wine, I have to admit that — at one point I said, ""If there was a contest, I would join."" And two weeks later, I received a text message: ""You're going to America."" (Laughter) So, OK, I'm going to America. I would love to, but why? So I immediately called her up, of course. She googled, and she found this World Whistling Championship in America, of course. (Laughter) She didn't expect me to go there. And I would have lost my face. I don't know if that's correct English. But the Dutch people here will understand what I mean. (Laughter) I lost my face. (Applause) And she thought, ""He will never go there."" But actually, I did. So I went to Louisburg, North Carolina, southeast of the United States, and I entered the world of whistling. And I also entered the World Championship, and I won there, in 2004. (Applause) That was great fun, of course. And to defend my title — like judokas do and sportsmen — I thought, well let's go back in 2005 — and I won again. (Laughter) Then I couldn't participate for a few years. And in 2008, I entered again in Japan, Tokyo, and I won again. So what happened now is I'm standing here in Rotterdam, in the beautiful city, on a big stage, and I'm talking about whistling. And actually, I earn my money whistling, at the moment. So I quit my day job as a nurse. (Applause) And I try to live my dream — well, actually, it was never my dream, but it sounds so good. (Laughter) OK, I'm not the only one whistling here. You say, ""Huh, what do you mean?"" Well actually, you are going to whistle along. And then always the same thing happens: people are watching each other and think, ""Oh, my God. Why? Can I go away?"" No, you can't. (Laughter) Actually, it's very simple. The track that I will whistle is called ""Fête de la Belle."" It's about 80 minutes long. (Laughter) No, no, no. It's four minutes long. And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling. Yes, so I whistle the tone. (Whistling) (Laughter) Sorry, I forgot one thing — you whistle the same tone as me. (Laughter) I heard a wide variety of tones. (Geert Chatrou and audience whistling) (Whistling ends) This is very promising. (Laughter) This is very promising. I'll ask the technicians to start the music. And if it's started, I just point where you whistle along, and we will see what happens. (Laughter) Oh, I'm so sorry, technicians. (Laughter) I'm so used to that. (Laughter) I start it myself. (Laughter) OK, here it is. (Laughter) (Music) (Whistling) (Whistling ends) (Music) OK. (Whistling) It's easy, isn't it? (Whistling) Now comes the solo, I propose I do that myself, OK? (Music) (Whistling) (Applause) Max Westerman: Geert Chatrou, the World Champion of Whistling. Geert Chatrou: Thank you. Thank you."	"（吹口哨）♫ （觀眾掌聲） 謝謝大家！（觀眾掌聲）非常感謝大家！剛剛那是吹口哨。我試試看以英文來說。好一個圓滾滾的，從荷蘭來的捲毛傢伙—他為什麼在吹口哨？事實上，我從4歲開始吹口哨—大約4歲。我父親常常在我家四處吹口哨，而我以爲那是我們家人的溝通方式。所以我也和他一樣地吹口哨。而且直到我34歲，我還常常以口哨逗人及煩人。因為，說真的，我的吹口哨算是一種不正常的行為。我自顧自的吹口哨，我在教室裡吹口哨，我騎腳踏車時吹口哨，在任何地方我都可以吹口哨。 而且我也在聖誕節前夕與我太太娘家的聚會裏吹口哨，我想，這讓他們聖誕節音樂有點糟糕。而每當我聽到的音樂是我不喜歡的，我會試著去改良。所以《紅鼻子馴鹿-魯道夫》大家知道這首歌曲嗎？（吹口哨）♫然而它的旋律也可以像這樣。（吹口哨）♫但是在聖誕節的聚會—其實是在晚餐時—這會是非常惱人的。所以我的嫂嫂/弟妹跟我說了幾次：「請不要再吹口哨。」可我就是停不下來。在晚餐上—我喝了一些葡萄酒，我得承認這一點—在晚餐上我說：「如果有吹口哨的比賽，我一定會去參加。」 在兩個星期後我收到一個簡訊：「你要出發去美國。」（笑聲）所以，好，我要出發去美國。我很願意去，但是為啥呢？所以我馬上打電話給她，這是一定要的。她在Google的網站，發現這場世界吹口哨大賽在美國，當然了。她沒有想到我會去。可我也不能丟自己的臉。我不知道這算不算是正確的英文。不過如果這裡有荷蘭人一定能明白我的意思。（笑聲）我丟了我的臉。（觀眾掌聲）然後她想：「他永遠不可能去那裡。」不過事實上我做到了。所以我去了北卡羅萊納州的路易斯堡，位於美國的東南方，我走進了吹口哨的世界。並且參加了世界吹口哨大賽，我贏得了2004年的冠軍。 （觀眾掌聲） 那真是—-那真的是非常有趣，當然了。為了保持我的頭銜—各位知道的，跟一般人以及運動員一樣—我想，讓我們回到2005年我又贏了。之後有幾年我無法參加。然後在2008年我再次參加在日本東京，我再次獲勝。所以現在的情況是這樣我在鹿特丹港，這美麗的城市，站在一個大型表演台上，談論吹口哨的話題。實際上我在吹口哨的同時也賺到了錢。所以我辭掉了護士的工作。（觀眾掌聲）而且我試著來實踐我的夢想。其實，以吹口哨爲生從來不是我的夢想，但這聽起來很棒。 （觀眾掌聲） 好，我不是這裡唯一會吹口哨的人。你會說：「啥！你什麼意思？」事實上，你們也要一起吹口哨。然後相同的事情又會再發生：人們會彼此對望然後想：「噢，天啊！為什麼？我可以開溜嗎？」不行，你不可以。其實這很簡單。我接下來要吹的曲名是""Fête de la Belle.""時間大約 80分鐘。不，不，不。只有4分鐘。首先我想先和大家演練一下你們的哨音。所以我吹出音調。（吹口哨）♫（笑聲）抱歉，我忘記一件事。你們哨音的音調要和我一樣。（笑聲）我聽到變化多端的音調。 （吹口哨）♫ 這聼起來很不錯。聼起來很不錯。我來請技術人員開啟音樂。一旦開始，要大家一起吹的時候，我會給你們暗示然後我們再看看如何。喔，阿哈！我很抱歉，技術員。（笑聲）我已經很習慣了。我自己來開啟好了。好，音樂來了。 （笑聲） （音樂） （吹口哨）♫ 好。 （吹口哨）♫ 很簡單，對吧。 （吹口哨）♫ 接下來是獨唱，我建議我一個人吹就好了。 （吹口哨）♫ （觀眾掌聲） Max Westerman：Geert Chatrou，世界吹口哨冠軍。 Geert Chatrou：謝謝大家！謝謝大家！"
