Talk	en	zh-tw
aaron_huey	"I'm here today to show my photographs of the Lakota. Many of you may have heard of the Lakota, or at least the larger group of tribes, called the Sioux. The Lakota are one of many tribes that were moved off their land to prisoner-of-war camps, now called reservations. The Pine Ridge Reservation, the subject of today's slide show, is located about 75 miles southeast of the Black Hills in South Dakota. It is sometimes referred to as Prisoner of War Camp Number 334, and it is where the Lakota now live. Now, if any of you have ever heard of AIM, the American Indian Movement, or of Russell Means, or Leonard Peltier, or of the standoff at Oglala, then you know Pine Ridge is ground zero for Native issues in the US. So I've been asked to talk a little bit today about my relationship with the Lakota, and that's a very difficult one for me, because, if you haven't noticed from my skin color, I'm white, and that is a huge barrier on a Native reservation. You'll see a lot of people in my photographs today. I've become very close with them, and they've welcomed me like family. They've called me ""brother"" and ""uncle,"" and invited me again and again over five years. But on Pine Ridge, I will always be what is called ""wasichu."" ""Wasichu"" is a Lakota word that means ""non-Indian,"" but another version of this word means ""the one who takes the best meat for himself."" And that's what I want to focus on — the one who takes the best part of the meat. It means ""greedy."" So take a look around this auditorium today. We are at a private school in the American West, sitting in red velvet chairs with money in our pockets. And if we look at our lives, we have indeed taken the best part of the meat. So let's look today at a set of photographs of a people who lost so that we could gain, and know that when you see these people's faces, that these are not just images of the Lakota; they stand for all indigenous people. On this piece of paper is the history the way I learned it from my Lakota friends and family. The following is a time line of treaties made, treaties broken and massacres disguised as battles. I'll begin in 1824. What is known as the Bureau of Indian Affairs was created within the War Department, setting an early tone of aggression in our dealings with the Native Americans. 1851: The first treaty of Fort Laramie was made, clearly marking the boundaries of the Lakota Nation. According to the treaty, those lands are a sovereign nation. If the boundaries of this treaty had held — and there is a legal basis that they should — then this is what the US would look like today. Ten years later. The Homestead Act, signed by President Lincoln, unleashed a flood of white settlers into Native lands. 1863: An uprising of Santee Sioux in Minnesota ends with the hanging of 38 Sioux men, the largest mass execution in US history. The execution was ordered by President Lincoln, only two days after he signed the Emancipation Proclamation. 1866: The beginning of the Transcontinental Railroad — a new era. We appropriated land for trails and trains to shortcut through the heart of the Lakota Nation. The treaties were out the window. In response, three tribes led by the Lakota chief Red Cloud attacked and defeated the US army, many times over. I want to repeat that part: The Lakota defeat the US army. 1868: The second Fort Laramie Treaty clearly guarantees the sovereignty of the Great Sioux Nation and the Lakotas' ownership of the sacred Black Hills. The government also promises land and hunting rights in the surrounding states. We promise that the Powder River country will henceforth be closed to all whites. The treaty seemed to be a complete victory for Red Cloud and the Sioux. In fact, this is the only war in American history in which the government negotiated a peace by conceding everything demanded by the enemy. 1869: The Transcontinental Railroad was completed. It began carrying, among other things, large numbers of hunters, who began the wholesale killing of buffalo, eliminating a source of food, clothing and shelter for the Sioux. 1871: The Indian Appropriation Act makes all Indians wards of the federal government. In addition, the military issued orders forbidding western Indians from leaving reservations. All western Indians at that point in time were now prisoners of war. Also in 1871, we ended the time of treaty-making. The problem with treaties is they allow tribes to exist as sovereign nations, and we can't have that. We had plans. 1874: General George Custer announced the discovery of gold in Lakota territory, specifically the Black Hills. The news of gold creates a massive influx of white settlers into Lakota Nation. Custer recommends that Congress find a way to end the treaties with the Lakota as soon as possible. 1875: The Lakota war begins over the violation of the Fort Laramie Treaty. 1876: On July 26th, on its way to attack a Lakota village, Custer's 7th Cavalry was crushed at the battle of Little Big Horn. 1877: The great Lakota warrior and chief named Crazy Horse surrendered at Fort Robinson. He was later killed while in custody. 1877 is also the year we found a way to get around the Fort Laramie Treaties. A new agreement was presented to Sioux chiefs and their leading men, under a campaign known as ""Sell or Starve"" — sign the paper, or no food for your tribe. Only 10 percent of the adult male population signed. The Fort Laramie Treaty called for at least three-quarters of the tribe to sign away land. That clause was obviously ignored. 1887: The Dawes Act. Communal ownership of reservation lands ends. Reservations are cut up into 160-acre sections, and distributed to individual Indians with the surplus disposed of. Tribes lost millions of acres. The American dream of individual land ownership turned out to be a very clever way to divide the reservation until nothing was left. The move destroyed the reservations, making it easier to further subdivide and to sell with every passing generation. Most of the surplus land and many of the plots within reservation boundaries are now in the hands of white ranchers. Once again, the fat of the land goes to wasichu. 1890: A date I believe to be the most important in this slide show. This is the year of the Wounded Knee Massacre. On December 29, US troops surrounded a Sioux encampment at Wounded Knee Creek, and massacred Chief Big Foot and 300 prisoners of war, using a new rapid-fire weapon that fired exploding shells, called a Hotchkiss gun. For this so-called ""battle,"" 20 Congressional Medals of Honor for Valor were given to the 7th Cavalry. To this day, this is the most Medals of Honor ever awarded for a single battle. More Medals of Honor were given for the indiscriminate slaughter of women and children than for any battle in World War One, World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq or Afghanistan. The Wounded Knee Massacre is considered the end of the Indian wars. Whenever I visit the site of the mass grave at Wounded Knee, I see it not just as a grave for the Lakota or for the Sioux, but as a grave for all indigenous peoples. The holy man Black Elk, said, ""I did not know then how much was ended. When I look back now from this high hill of my old age, I can still see the butchered women and children lying heaped and scattered all along the crooked gulch, as plain as when I saw them with eyes still young. And I can see that something else died there in the bloody mud and was buried in the blizzard. A people's dream died there. And it was a beautiful dream."" With this event, a new era in Native American history began. Everything can be measured before Wounded Knee and after, because it was in this moment, with the fingers on the triggers of the Hotchkiss guns, that the US government openly declared its position on Native rights. They were tired of treaties. They were tired of sacred hills. They were tired of ghost dances. And they were tired of all the inconveniences of the Sioux. So they brought out their cannons. ""You want to be an Indian now?"" they said, finger on the trigger. 1900: the US Indian population reached its low point — less than 250,000, compared to an estimated eight million in 1492. Fast-forward. 1980: The longest-running court case in US history, the Sioux Nation versus the United States, was ruled upon by the US Supreme Court. The court determined that when the Sioux were resettled onto reservations and seven million acres of their land were opened up to prospectors and homesteaders, the terms of the second Fort Laramie Treaty had been violated. The court stated that the Black Hills were illegally taken, and that the initial offering price, plus interest, should be paid to the Sioux Nation. As payment for the Black Hills, the court awarded only 106 million dollars to the Sioux Nation. The Sioux refused the money with the rallying cry, ""The Black Hills are not for sale."" 2010: Statistics about Native population today, more than a century after the massacre at Wounded Knee, reveal the legacy of colonization, forced migration and treaty violations. Unemployment on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation fluctuates between 85 and 90 percent. The housing office is unable to build new structures, and existing structures are falling apart. Many are homeless, and those with homes are packed into rotting buildings with up to five families. Thirty-nine percent of homes on Pine Ridge have no electricity. At least 60 percent of the homes on the reservation are infested with black mold. More than 90 percent of the population lives below the federal poverty line. The tuberculosis rate on Pine Ridge is approximately eight times higher than the US national average. The infant mortality rate is the highest on this continent, and is about three times higher than the US national average. Cervical cancer is five times higher than the US national average. The school dropout rate is up to 70 percent. Teacher turnover is eight times higher than the US national average. Frequently, grandparents are raising their grandchildren because parents, due to alcoholism, domestic violence and general apathy, cannot raise them. Fifty percent of the population over the age of 40 suffers from diabetes. The life expectancy for men is between 46 and 48 years old — roughly the same as in Afghanistan and Somalia. The last chapter in any successful genocide is the one in which the oppressor can remove their hands and say, ""My god — what are these people doing to themselves? They're killing each other. They're killing themselves while we watch them die."" This is how we came to own these United States. This is the legacy of Manifest Destiny. Prisoners are still born into prisoner of war camps, long after the guards are gone. These are the bones left after the best meat has been taken. A long time ago, a series of events was set in motion by a people who look like me, by wasichu, eager to take the land and the water and the gold in the hills. Those events led to a domino effect that has yet to end. As removed as we, the dominant society, may feel from a massacre in 1890, or a series of broken treaties 150 years ago, I still have to ask you the question: How should you feel about the statistics of today? What is the connection between these images of suffering and the history that I just read to you? And how much of this history do you need to own, even? Is any of this your responsibility today? I have been told that there must be something we can do. There must be some call to action. Because for so long, I've been standing on the sidelines, content to be a witness, just taking photographs. Because the solutions seem so far in the past, I needed nothing short of a time machine to access them. The suffering of indigenous peoples is not a simple issue to fix. It's not something everyone can get behind the way they get behind helping Haiti, or ending AIDS, or fighting a famine. The ""fix,"" as it's called, may be much more difficult for the dominant society than, say, a $50 check or a church trip to paint some graffiti-covered houses, or a suburban family donating a box of clothes they don't even want anymore. So where does that leave us? Shrugging our shoulders in the dark? The United States continues on a daily basis to violate the terms of the 1851 and 1868 Fort Laramie Treaties with the Lakota. The call to action I offer today — my TED wish — is this: Honor the treaties. Give back the Black Hills. It's not your business what they do with them. (Applause)"	今天，我向大家呈現我拍攝的拉科塔人照片。拉科塔人對於在座的許多人應該不陌生了，至少也聽說過他們所屬的部落蘇族。拉科塔人是眾多被迫離開家園的印第安人。他們淪為戰俘，被驅趕到集中營裡，也就是所謂的保留地。松嶺印地安人保留地，就是今天攝影集的主題，它位於南達科他州黑崗東南方向75英里處。它的別名是334 號戰俘集中營。這裡就是現在拉科塔人的居住地。如果你們有人聽說過 AIM，也就是美國印第安人運動,還是你們有聽過 羅素·敏斯或是里奧納多‧波地爾或是奧加拉拉對峙事件，那麼你肯定知道，在美國，松嶺保留地就是印第安人問題的發生地。 今天，我被邀來這裡簡單介紹我和拉科塔人之間的關係，這我來說難能可貴。因為，你們如果注意到我的膚色，就知道我是白人，這在印第安人保留地是一大禁忌。今天展示的照片中有形形色色的人，我有幸成為他們的朋友，他們待我如親人一般。他們待我如兄長，在過去的五年裡一次又一次邀我，儘管如此，在松嶺，我永遠被視為wasichu,wasichu是拉科塔語，意思是非印第安人，而這個詞還有另一個含義，意思是搶走上等好肉的人。這就是我今天的主題 —搶走上等好肉的人。這意味著貪婪。大家四下看看。我們身處美國西部一所私立學校裡，坐在紅色絲絨的椅子上，荷包鼓鼓。如果我們稍稍自省，就不難發現，我們的確搶走了上等好肉。我們來好好看看這些圖片，看看我們如何奪走了本屬於另外一群人的生活。不僅如此，當看到這些人的臉時，你知道他們不僅代表了拉科塔人，還代表了所有印第安土著。 這張紙上，記錄著我從拉科塔朋友和家人那裡學到的歷史。下面是一組大事年表，記錄了那些被撕毀了的協約和一些看似戰鬥實為屠殺的事件。我從1824年講起。印第安事務管理局實為美國陸軍部下屬部門一開始就在對待美國原住民事務上充滿敵意。1851年:第一次《拉勒米堡條約》，明確劃定了拉科塔人的領土分界線。根據條約，分界線以內的土地構成一個主權國家。如果條約劃定的界限還在，同時還有法源依據那麼這才是美國今天的模樣。十年以後，由林肯總統親自簽署的《公地放領法》放任白人殖民者蜂擁闖入原駐民領地。1863年:明尼蘇達州發生蘇族的支部桑蒂人起義，結果38名蘇人被絞死，這成為美國歷史上最大規模的絞刑。下令行刑的正是林肯總統，而就在兩天前，他剛剛簽署了《解放奴隸宣言》。 1866年，跨大陸鐵路開始動工 —新時代開始了。為了優化鐵路路線，我們抄捷徑直穿拉科塔腹地。所有條約都被束之高閣。拉科達酋長紅雲率領的三個部落進行反擊，他們攻打並屢次戰勝了美國軍隊。我想再強調一遍。拉科塔人戰勝了美國軍隊。1868年: 第二次《拉勒米堡條約》清清楚楚地承諾保證蘇族的主權地位並承認神聖的黑崗為拉科塔所有。政府另外還承諾他們在其領地周圍各州享有土地和狩獵權。我們承諾白人一律不許踏入屬於印第安人的粉河地帶。這個條約表面上是紅雲酋長以及蘇人的完美勝利勝。而實質上，這是美國歷史上政府唯一一次為了停戰而完全屈從於敵人的要求。 1869年:跨大陸鐵路竣工。成千上萬的獵戶搭著火車來到蘇人的領地，他們開始成批地捕殺野牛,使得蘇人賴以生存的生活資料來源瀕臨滅絕。1871年:印第安人撥款法案讓所有印第安人都受到聯邦政府的管轄。不僅如此，美國軍隊下令禁止西部的印第安人離開保留地。從此以後，所有西部印第安人都成為了戰後囚徒。另外，1871年，我們停止制定條約。條約只會允許印第安部落享有主權，但我們不能接受。我們自有對策。 1874年:喬治‧卡斯特 將軍宣佈在拉科塔地區發現了金礦，位置就在黑崗。這一消息引得白人移民者蜂擁闖入拉科塔領地。卡斯特向國會提議儘快解除與拉科塔人定下的條約。1875年: 美國撕毀《拉勒米堡條約》，拉科達戰爭爆發。1876年:7月26日卡斯特將軍率領的第七騎兵在攻打一個拉科塔村莊時全軍覆沒，這就是著名的小盤羊戰役。1877年:偉大的拉科塔勇士瘋馬酋長於羅賓遜堡投降。他之後在關押期間被殺害。1877年，我們成功地解除了所有《拉勒米堡條約》。一項新協議擺在了蘇人各部酋長以及他們副手的面前，這次運動被稱為“不賣地就餓死”要麼在協議上簽字，要麼你的部落就等著挨餓。只有百分之十的成年男子簽了字。《拉勒米堡條約》要求一個部落中至少四分之三的人簽字同意才能出讓土地。這一條款很顯然已經被忽略不計了。 1887:《道斯法案》。保留地公有的時代就此終結。保留地被分割成塊，每塊地為160英畝，分配給每個印第安人剩餘的部分則被割走。印第安部落損失了上百萬英畝土地。美國人為了實現就不擇手段將保留地瓜分待盡。保留地遭到毀滅性打擊，變得更容易讓下一代人進一步瓜分。那些瓜分剩下的土地以及許多保留地內的地塊現在都成了白人農場主的囊中之物。最肥沃的土地再次落入wasichu手裡 1890年，我認為是幻燈片上最重要的一個日期。就在這一年，“傷膝河慘案”發生了。12月29日，美國軍隊包圍了蘇人駐紮在傷膝河的營地，並在那裡屠殺了“大腳”酋長以及其他300多名戰俘，他們使用的是一種能夠進行掃射的新式武器 －機關槍。為了這場所謂的戰役，國會將 20 枚榮譽勳章授予了第七騎兵團以表彰他們的驍勇善戰。直到今天，這是歷史上國會授予最多榮譽勳章的單次戰役。這一次對無辜婦女兒童的殘酷屠殺所獲得的榮譽勳章多於第一次世界大戰，第二次世界大戰，朝鮮戰爭、越南戰爭、伊拉克戰爭或阿富汗戰爭中的任何一次戰役。“傷膝河慘案”被認為是印第安戰爭的結束每一次去傷膝河公墓，我看到的不僅僅是拉科塔人或蘇人的墳墓，而是所有原住民的墳墓。 印第安聖人黑麋鹿曾說：「我不知道當時死了多少人。每當回首那座飽經滄桑的高山，沿著那條蜿蜒的小河我依然能看見那些婦女兒童,屍橫遍地，這和我年輕時親見的場景一般清晰。我能看到在那鮮血染紅的泥土中還有另一樣東西也被扼殺了，最後被暴風雪所埋葬。一個民族的夢想在那裡湮滅那曾是個多麼美好的夢想。” 事件發生以後，美國原住民的歷史進入新的篇章。“傷膝河慘案” 發生之前，一切都是可以衡量的。因為現在美國政府一邊做出扣動扳機的姿態，美國政府公開宣佈對原住民權力的立場他們厭倦了條約。厭倦了聖山。厭倦了鬼舞。他們厭倦了蘇人給他們帶來的種種不便。於是他們搬出了大炮。要脅: 「你們還做印第安人是嗎?」同時作勢開槍。1900年:美國原駐民人口跌至歷史最低點:不足二十五萬人，遠遠少於 1492 年的八百萬人。 再將時間拉近一點。1980年:美國歷史上耗時最長的官司在蘇族和美國政府之間展開，審理的是美國最高法庭。法院裁決，蘇人重歸保留地時，同時將七百萬英畝土地開放給探礦者和自耕農，違反了第二次《拉勒米堡條約》的條款。法院陳述說黑崗是被非法佔有的，政府應當連本帶息向蘇族買下黑崗。為買下黑崗，法院只承諾給蘇族區區一億零六百萬美元。蘇人集體抗議，拒絕收錢，他們呐喊，“決不賣黑崗”。 2010年:今天關於原住民的資料顯示，傷膝河大屠殺過了一個多世紀之後，殖民地化，強制搬遷，違反條約等活動所產生的後遺症逐漸暴露。松嶺印第安人保留地的失業率一直高達百分之八十五甚至百分之九十。房屋事務管理部門無力建設新的基礎設施，而現存的設施卻漸漸崩塌。不少人流離失所，即使一些人有家，他們也只能勉強在危樓裡，五個家庭擠在一起生活。在松嶺，百分之三十九的住房沒有通電。百分之六十以上的住房發了黴。超過百分之九十的人口生活在國家貧困線以下。松嶺地區的肺結核患病率大約比全國平均患病率高八倍。嬰兒死亡率為北美洲之首，比全國平均嬰兒死亡率高出三倍。子宮頸癌患病率比全國平均值高五倍。輟學率高達百分之七十。教師調動頻繁，比全國平均值高出八倍。孩子通常由他們的祖父祖母撫養，因為他們的父母由於酗酒，家庭暴力和對子女的冷漠態度，而無法承擔撫養責任。年齡在四十歲以上的人群中有百分之五十患有糖尿病。男性的壽命平均在46歲到48歲，基本上等於阿富汗和索馬里亞的情況。 每一次種族屠殺的結局都一樣，屠殺者丟下屠刀，說:「天啊，看看這些人對自己幹了什麼?他們自相殘殺。自取滅亡。我們只能在一邊看著。」我們就是這樣建立起美利堅合眾國的。這是命定擴張論所衍生的後遺症。雖然監獄看守早已不在了，在這個戰爭集中營裡，仍然不停地有新的戰俘誕生。好肉都被瓜分乾淨了，剩下的只有骨頭。很久以前，一群和我擁有同樣膚色的人，也就是wasichu，因為覬覦黑崗的土地、水源、以及金子，而發動了一系列搶掠行動。這些行動產生的連鎖效應，至今未停。 儘管現在我們作為主導的這個社會與1890年的大屠殺以及150年前撕毀的條約相隔甚遠，我仍然要問你們:對於今天的資料，你們做何感想?這些印第安人受苦的照片和我剛才所念的歷史事件有什麼關聯呢?你們對這些歷史事件應付多少責任?你們是否對這些歷史事件負責?有人告訴我說我們肯定能做些什麼。我需要號召大家行動起來，因為我花了太長時間站在一旁滿足於作個旁觀者，能做的只是拍拍照片。解決的方法似乎遺留在遙遠的過去我只有使用時間機器才能找回它。 原住民的痛苦生活不是一天兩天就能夠得到改善的。人們不能像拖延援助海地，抗擊愛滋病，或賑濟饑荒那樣拖延對原住民的幫助。幫助他們的方法對於主流社會而言可不簡單，它不是一張五十美元的支票，不像教會組織幫助粉刷被塗鴉的房子，也不是像一個市郊家庭把他們不要的舊衣服捐出來那麼簡單。我們到底應該怎麼做?只能無奈地聳聳肩嗎? 美國政府至今仍在違反1851年和1868年的條約。也就是和拉科塔人簽訂的兩次《拉勒米堡條約》。我今天想告訴大家，我的TED心願是:請你們遵守條約，歸還黑崗，印第安人想怎樣利用那些山，你們無權過問。 （掌聲）
