Talk	en	zh-tw
aaron_koblin	"So I think data can actually make us more human. We're collecting and creating all kinds of data about how we're living our lives, and it's enabling us to tell some amazing stories. Recently, a wise media theorist Tweeted, ""The 19th century culture was defined by the novel, the 20th century culture was defined by the cinema, and the culture of the 21st century will be defined by the interface."" And I believe this is going to prove true. Our lives are being driven by data, and the presentation of that data is an opportunity for us to make some amazing interfaces that tell great stories. So I'm going to show you a few of the projects that I've been working on over the last couple years that reflect on our lives and our systems. This is a project called Flight Patterns. What you're looking at is airplane traffic over North America for a 24-hour period. As you see, everything starts to fade to black, and you see people going to sleep. Followed by that, you see on the West coast planes moving across, the red-eye flights to the East coast. And you'll see everybody waking up on the East coast, followed by European flights coming in the upper right-hand corner. Everybody's moving from the East coast to the West coast. You see San Francisco and Los Angeles start to make their journeys down to Hawaii in the lower left-hand corner. I think it's one thing to say there's 140,000 planes being monitored by the federal government at any one time, and it's another thing to see that system as it ebbs and flows. This is a time-lapse image of that exact same data, but I've color-coded it by type, so you can see the diversity of aircraft that are in the skies above us. And I started making these, and I put them into Google Maps and allow you to zoom in and see individual airports and the patterns that are occurring there. So here we can see the white represents low altitudes, and the blue are higher altitudes. And you can zoom in. This is taking a look at Atlanta. You can see this is a major shipping airport, and there's all kinds of activity there. You can also toggle between altitude for model and manufacturer. See again, the diversity. And you can scroll around and see some of the different airports and the different patterns that they have. This is scrolling up the East coast. You can see some of the chaos that's happening in New York with the air traffic controllers having to deal with all those major airports next to each other. So zooming back out real quick, we see, again, the U.S. — you get Florida down in the right-hand corner. Moving across to the West coast, you see San Francisco and Los Angeles — big low-traffic zones across Nevada and Arizona. And that's us down there in L.A. and Long Beach on the bottom. I started taking a look as well at different perimeters, because you can choose what you want to pull out from the data. This is looking at ascending versus descending flights. And you can see, over time, the ways the airports change. You see the holding patterns that start to develop in the bottom of the screen. And you can see, eventually the airport actually flips directions. So this is another project that I worked on with the Sensible Cities Lab at MIT. This is visualizing international communications. So it's how New York communicates with other international cities. And we set this up as a live globe in the Museum of Modern Art in New York for the Design the Elastic Mind exhibition. And it had a live feed with a 24-hour offset, so you could see the changing relationship and some demographic info coming through AT&T's data and revealing itself. This is another project I worked on with Sensible Cities Lab and CurrentCity.org. And it's visualizing SMS messages being sent in the city of Amsterdam. So you're seeing the daily ebb and flow of people sending SMS messages from different parts of the city, until we approach New Year's Eve, where everybody says, ""Happy New Year!"" (Laughter) So this is an interactive tool that you can move around and see different parts of the city. This is looking at another event. This is called Queen's Day. So again, you get this daily ebb and flow of people sending SMS messages from different parts of the city. And then you're going to see people start to gather in the center of the city to celebrate the night before, which happens right here. And then you can see people celebrating the next day. And you can pause it and step back and forth and see different phases. So now on to something completely different. Some of you may recognize this. This is Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen's mechanical chess playing machine. And it's this amazing robot that plays chess extremely well, except for one thing: it's not a robot at all. There's actually a legless man that sits in that box and controls this chess player. This was the inspiration for a web service by Amazon called the Mechanical Turk — named after this guy. And it's based on the premise that there are certain things that are easy for people, but really difficult for computers. So they made this web service and said, ""Any programmer can write a piece of software and tap into the minds of thousands of people."" The nerdy side of me thought, ""Wow, this is amazing. I can tap into thousands of people's minds."" And the other nerdy side of me thought, ""This is horrible. This is completely bizarre. What does this mean for the future of mankind, where we're all plugged into this borg?"" I was probably being a little extreme. But what does this mean when we have no context for what it is that we're working on, and we're just doing these little labors? So I created this drawing tool. I asked people to draw a sheep facing to the left. And I said, ""I'll pay you two cents for your contribution."" And I started collecting sheep. And I collected a lot, a lot of different sheep. Lots of sheep. I took the first 10,000 sheep that I collected, and I put them on a website called TheSheepMarket.com where you can actually buy collections of 20 sheep. You can't pick individual sheep, but you can buy a single plate block of stamps as a commodity. And juxtaposed against this grid, you see actually, by rolling over each individual one, the humanity behind this hugely mechanical process. I think there's something really interesting to watching people as they go through this creative toil — something we can all relate to, this creative process of trying to come up with something from nothing. I think it was really interesting to juxtapose this humanity versus this massive distributed grid. Kind of amazing what some people did. So here's a few statistics from the project. Approximate collection rate of 11 sheep per hour, which would make a working wage of 69 cents per hour. There were 662 rejected sheep that didn't meet ""sheep-like"" criteria and were thrown out of the flock. (Laughter) The amount of time spent drawing ranged from four seconds to 46 minutes. That gives you an idea of the different types of motivations and dedication. And there were 7,599 people that contributed to the project, or were unique IP addresses — so about how many people contributed. But only one of them out of the 7,599 said this. (Laughter) Which I was pretty surprised by. I expected people to be wondering, ""Why did I draw a sheep?"" And I think it's a pretty valid question. And there's a lot of reasons why I chose sheep. Sheep were the first animal to be raised from mechanically processed byproducts, the first to be selectively bred for production traits, the first animal to be cloned. Obviously, we think of sheep as followers. And there's this reference to ""Le Petit Prince"" where the narrator asks the prince to draw a sheep. He draws sheep after sheep. The narrator's only appeased when he draws a box. And he says, ""It's not about a scientific rendering of a sheep. It's about your own interpretation and doing something different."" And I like that. So this is a clip from Charlie Chaplin's ""Modern Times."" It's showing Charlie Chaplin dealing with some of the major changes during the Industrial Revolution. So there were no longer shoe makers, but now there are people slapping soles on people's shoes. And the whole idea of one's relationship to their work changed a lot. So I thought this was an interesting clip to divide into 16 pieces and feed into the Mechanical Turk with a drawing tool. This basically allowed — what you see on the left side is the original frame, and on the right side you see that frame as interpreted by 16 people who have no idea what it is they're doing. And this was the inspiration for a project that I worked on with my friend Takashi Kawashima. We decided to use the Mechanical Turk for exactly what it was meant for, which is making money. So we took a hundred dollar bill and divided it into 10,000 teeny pieces, and we fed those into the Mechanical Turk. We asked people to draw what it was that they saw. But here there was no sheep-like criteria. People, if they drew a stick figure or a smiley face, it actually made it into the bill. So what you see is actually a representation of how well people did what it was they were asked to do. So we took these hundred dollar bills, and we put them on a website called TenThousandsCents.com, where you can browse through and see all the individual contributions. And you can also trade real hundred-dollar bills for fake hundred-dollar bills and make a donation to the Hundred Dollar Laptop Project, which is now known as One Laptop Per Child. This is again showing all the different contributions. You see some people did beautiful stipple renderings, like this one on top — spent a long time making realistic versions. And other people would draw stick figures or smiley faces. Here on the right-hand side in the middle you see this one guy writing, ""$0.01!!! Really?"" That's all I'm getting paid for this? (Laughter) So the last Mechanical Turk project I'm going to talk to you about is called Bicycle Built for 2000. This is a collaboration with my friend Daniel Massey. You may recognize these two guys. This is Max Mathews and John Kelly from Bell Labs in the '60s, where they created the song ""Daisy Bell,"" which was the world's first singing computer. You may recognize it from ""2001: A Space Odyssey."" When HAL's dying at the end of the film he starts singing this song, as a reference to when computers became human. So we resynthesized this song. This is what that sounded like. We broke down all the individual notes in the singing as well as the phonemes in the singing. Daisy Bell: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ... ♫ Aaron Koblin: And we took all of those individual pieces, and we fed them into another Turk request. This is what it would look like if you went to the site. You type in your code, but you first test your mic. You'd be fed a simple audio clip. (Honk) And then you'd do your best to recreate that with your own voice. After previewing it and confirming it's what you submitted, you could submit it into the Mechanical Turk with no other context. And this is what we first got back from the very first set of submissions. Recording: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫ ♫ give me your answer do ♫ ♫ I'm half crazy ♫ ♫ all for the love of you ♫ ♫ It can't be a stylish marriage ♫ ♫ I can't afford a carriage ♫ ♫ But you'll look sweet upon the seat ♫ ♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫ AK: So James Surowieki has this idea of the wisdom of crowds, that says that a whole bunch of people are smarter than any individual. We wanted to see how this applies to collaborative, distributed music making, where nobody has any idea what it is they're working on. So if you go to the BicycleBuiltforTwoThousand.com you can actually hear what all this sounds like together. I'm sorry for this. (Noise) Chorus: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫ ♫ Give me your answer do ♫ ♫ I'm half crazy ♫ ♫ all for the love of you ♫ ♫ It can't be a stylish marriage ♫ ♫ I can't afford a carriage ♫ ♫ But you'd look sweet upon the seat ♫ ♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫ AK: So stepping back for a quick second, when I was at UCLA going to grad school, I was also working at a place called the Center for Embedded Network Sensing. And I was writing software to visualize laser scanners. So basically motion through 3D space. And this was seen by a director in L.A. named James Frost who said, ""Wait a minute. You mean we can shoot a music video without actually using any video?"" So we did exactly that. We made a music video for one of my favorite bands, Radiohead. And I think one of my favorite parts of this project was not just shooting a video with lasers, but we also open sourced it, and we made it released as a Google Code project, where people could download a bunch of the data and some source code to build their own versions of it. And people were making some amazing things. This is actually two of my favorites: the pin-board Thom Yorke and a LEGO Thom Yorke. A whole YouTube channel of people submitting really interesting content. More recently, somebody even 3D-printed Thom Yorke's head, which is a little creepy, but pretty cool. So with everybody making so much amazing stuff and actually understanding what it was they were working on, I was really interested in trying to make a collaborative project where people were working together to build something. And I met a music video director named Chris Milk. And we started bouncing around ideas to make a collaborative music video project. But we knew we really needed the right person to kind of rally behind and build something for. So we put the idea on the back burner for a few months. And he ended up talking to Rick Rubin, who was finishing up Johnny Cash's final album called ""Ain't No Grave."" The lyrics to the leading track are ""Ain't no grave can hold my body down."" So we thought this was the perfect project to build a collaborative memorial and a virtual resurrection for Johnny Cash. So I teamed up with my good friend Ricardo Cabello, also known as Mr. doob, who's a much better programmer than I am, and he made this amazing Flash drawing tool. As you know, an animation is a series of images. So what we did was cross-cut a bunch of archival footage of Johnny Cash, and at eight frames a second, we allowed individuals to draw a single frame that would get woven into this dynamically changing music video. So I don't have time to play the entire thing for you, but I want to show you two short clips. One is the beginning of the music video. And that's going to be followed by a short clip of people who have already contributed to the project talking about it briefly. (Music) (Video) Johnny Cash: ♫ There ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold my body down ♫ ♫ There ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold body down ♫ ♫ When I hear the trumpet sound ♫ ♫ I'm going to ride right out of the ground ♫ ♫ Ain't no grave ♫ ♫ can hold my body ... ♫ (Applause) AK: What better way to pay tribute to the man than to make something for one of his songs. Collaborator: I felt really sad when he died. And I just thought it'd be wonderful, it'd be really nice to contribute something to his memory. Collaborator Two: It really allows this last recording of his to be a living, breathing memorial. Collaborator Three: For all of the frames to be drawn by fans, each individual frame, it's got a very powerful feeling to it. Collaborator Four: I've seen everybody from Japan, Venezuela, to the States, to Knoxville, Tennessee. Collaborator Five: As much as is different from frame to frame, it really is personal. Collaborator Six: Watching the video in my room, I could see me not understanding at the beginning of it. And I just worked and worked through problems, until my little wee battles that I was fighting within the picture all began to resolve themselves. You can actually see the point when I know what I'm doing, and a lot of light and dark comes into it. And in a weird way, that's what I actually like about Johnny Cash's music as well. It's the sum total of his life, all the things that had happened — the bad things, the good things. You're hearing a person's life. AK: So if you go to the website JohnnyCashProject.com, what you'll see is the video playing above. And below it are all the individual frames that people have been submitting to the project. So this isn't finished at all, but it's an ongoing project where people can continue to collaborate. If you roll over any one of those individual thumbnails, you can see the person who drew that individual thumbnail and where they were located. And if you find one that you're interested in, you can actually click on it and open up an information panel where you're able to rate that frame, which helps it bubble up to the top. And you can also see the way that it was drawn. Again, you can get the playback and personal contribution. In addition to that, it's listed, the artist's name, the location, how long they spent drawing it. And you can pick a style. So this one was tagged ""Abstract."" But there's a bunch of different styles. And you can sort the video a number of different ways. You can say, ""I want to see the pointillist version or the sketchy version or the realistic version. And then this is, again, the abstract version, which ends up getting a little bit crazy. So the last project I want to talk to you about is another collaboration with Chris Milk. And this is called ""The Wilderness Downtown."" It's an online music video for the Arcade Fire. Chris and I were really amazed by the potential now with modern web browsers, where you have HTML5 audio and video and the power of JavaScript to render amazingly fast. And we wanted to push the idea of the music video that was meant for the Web beyond the four-by-three or sixteen-by-nine window and try to make it play out and choreograph throughout the screen. But most importantly, I think, we really wanted to make an experience that was unlike the Johnny Cash Project, where you had a small group of people spending a lot of time to contribute something for everyone. What if we had a very low commitment, but delivered something individually unique to each person who contributed? So the project starts off by asking you to enter the address of the home where you grew up. And you type in the address — it actually creates a music video specifically for you, pulling in Google maps and Streetview images into the experience itself. So this should really be seen at home with you typing in your own address, but I'm going to give you a little preview of what you can expect. (Video) Win Butler: ♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫ ♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫ ♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫ ♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫ ♫ Sometimes it never came ♫ ♫ Sometimes it never came ♫ ♫ Still moving through the pain ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ ♫ We used to wait for it ♫ AK: So I think, if there's one thing to take away from my talk today, it's that an interface can be a powerful narrative device. And as we collect more and more personally and socially relevant data, we have an opportunity, and maybe even an obligation, to maintain the humanity and tell some amazing stories as we explore and collaborate together. Thanks a lot. (Applause)"	我認為，數據實際上可以使人性更加突出。我們時時刻刻都在創造和搜集各種有關我們如何生活的數據，利用這些數據我們可以講出很精彩的故事。最近，一個睿智的媒體理論家在Twitter上說：「19世紀文化是小說塑造的，20世紀文化是電影院塑造的，而21世紀的文化將被交互界面所塑造。」我相信這句話將來會被證實。我們的生活正在被數據推動，表達這些數據的方式也是一個機會讓我們通過精彩的展示界面來講述不平凡的故事。以下我會展示我在過去的幾年間製作的一些項目，它們也是對我們的生活和社會系統的反思。 這個項目名叫航班圖案。你所看到的是24小時內北美洲上空的交通狀況。可以看到所有地方都開始暗下去，人們去了就寢。之後西海岸可以看到飛機穿過，是飛向東海岸的紅眼航班。還可以看到東海岸的人們醒來，然後歐洲的航班從右上角飛入。人們紛紛從東海岸涌向西海岸。可以看到從舊金山和洛杉磯開始有航班南下飛往左下角的夏威夷。 我認為說任何時刻聯邦政府都在監控140,000架航班是一回事，而看到這個系統中每條線的消逝和流動是另一回事。這是用同一組數據製作的延時圖像，不過我用了不同顏色來表示不同類型的飛機，這就可以看出從我們上空飛過的飛機是那麼多種多樣。開始做這些圖像之後，我把它們放到Google地圖中，並且允許用戶放大圖像，看到單獨的機場以及那裡形成的圖案。這裡我們可以看到白色表示低空，藍色表示高空。你也可以放大。這裡是亞特蘭大的一瞥。可以看出這是一個主要的港口機場，各種各樣的活動都在發生。你也可以將海拔高度切換成飛機的模板或者製造商。同樣，可以看出其中的多樣性。你也可以拖放滾動條來觀察不同的機場以及它們形成的不同圖案。這裡我們沿東海岸向上滾動，可以看到紐約所發生的一部份混亂狀況，空中交通管制員不得不合理協調那些密集的大機場。 快速縮小回原來的尺度，我們又一次看到了整個美國—右角是弗羅里達州。平移視角到西海岸，可以看到舊金山和洛杉磯，以及廣闊而交通量少的地區，橫跨內華達州和亞利桑那州。那是我們所在的洛杉磯南部，還有底部的長灘市。現在我要開始檢視其他參數了，因為可以選擇你想要從數據中提取什麽。這是起飛航班與降落航班的比較。可以看出機場的狀況如何隨時間而變化。在屏幕下方，你能看到靜態的圖案開始發生變化。看，最後航班其實翻轉了方向。 這是另一個我與麻省理工學院的Sensible Cities Lab合作的作品。這次我們用圖形展示國際通訊。這就是紐約與其他國際都市之間的通訊。我們在紐約的現代美術博物館架起這樣一個實況地球，來參加以“描繪靈活思路”為題的展覽。它每時每刻從信息源接收24小時之前的數據，因此可以看到這種不斷變化的關係，以及一些人口學信息，這些信息由AT&T提供。這是我與Sensible Cities Lab以及CurrentCity.org合作的另一項作品。它可以用圖形顯示在阿姆斯特丹發出的簡訊。你現在所看到的是每天的潮起潮落，這是人們從城市的不同角落發送簡訊，直到時間接近元旦，每個人都在說：「新年快樂！」 （笑聲） 它還是個交互式工具，你可以四處移動，看看城市的不同區域。現在看到的是另一個節日，叫做女王節。可以再次看到一天當中人們從城市各個角落發送簡訊形成的潮起潮落。然後你將看到人們開始在市中心集中，來慶祝節日的前夜，正是在此處。然後看到的是人們接下來的一天也在慶祝。你也可以暫停，前進或後退來檢視不同時段。 現在看點完全不同的東西吧。有些人可能認識這個。這是Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen的下象棋機器。這部驚人的機器人象棋下得非常好，除了一件事：它根本不是個機器人。實際上，箱子里坐著一個沒有腿的人，他控制著下棋者。這是Amazon一項在線服務的靈感來源，據此，這項服務被命名為“機械土耳其人”。它的誕生基於這樣的前提：有些事情人類很容易辦到，對機器來說卻無比困難。因此，Amazon創造出這項服務，並聲稱：「任何程序員都可以寫出一小段代碼，並把它輸入數以千計的人的腦海中。」我內心呆板的一面想到，“哇，這真是太神奇了，我可以將想法輸入上千人的腦海里。”我內心書呆子的另一面想到：「這真可怕，簡直是瘋狂的想法。這對於人類的未來又意味著什麽呢人類的未來將會變成什麽樣？」我的想法可能有點極端，但是當我們完全不瞭解自己所做事情的前因後果而僅僅付出舉手之勞時，整件事有什麽意味呢？ 因此我創造了這個繪畫工具。我請人們畫下一隻面朝左邊的綿羊。我還表示，我會為他們的工作支付兩美分。然後我就開始收集綿羊了。而且我收集了很多，很多不同的綿羊。許許多多的綿羊。我收下了最早的10,000只羊，並把它們放上了一個名叫TheSheepMarket.com的網站，那裡你可以以20只為單位買下這些綿羊，不能挑選單獨的綿羊，但可以買下一批綿羊，作為商品。把它們並排放在這些格子里，指針劃過每隻綿羊時，你可以切實看到這個相當機械化的過程背後的人性。我覺得觀察人們如何完成這項艱難的創作十分有趣，我們每個人都可以參與，從一無所有入手，最終努力完成創作過程。我覺得將這樣的人性與批量製造的方格互相對比很有意思。人們所做的事某種程度上真是令人驚奇。 這裡有項目中的一些統計數據。平均每小時大約收到11只綿羊，也就意味著每小時付出69美分工資。一共有662只被我們棄置的綿羊，因為它們不符合我們“像綿羊”的標準，被從羊群中剔除了。（笑聲）作畫所花費的時間從幾秒鐘到46分鐘不等，體現出人們的動力與投入各有不同。參與這個項目的一共有7,599人，或者說7,599個不同的IP地址，也就大約是參與的人數。但是7,599個人當中只有一個人這樣說：（笑聲）這令我十分驚訝。我原本以為人們會疑惑：我爲什麽要畫綿羊？我也認為這是個很正當的提問。 我選擇綿羊的原因有很多。綿羊是第一種作為工業化生產的副產品而被飼養的動物；第一種為獲得生產特性而被選擇性育種；也是第一種被克隆(無性繁殖)的動物。顯然，我們總將綿羊視為追隨者。還有《小王子》中所提到的，作者讓小王子畫一隻綿羊。他畫了一隻又一隻綿羊，直到他畫了一個箱子作者才滿意。他說，「這不是一隻綿羊的科學描繪，而是關於你自己的理解，做些不同的事情。」我非常喜歡這段。 這是Charlie Chaplin的《摩登時代》中的一段，展示Charlie Chaplin面對工業革命帶來的一些巨大變化時是如何應對的。現在已經沒有制鞋匠了，是人們在其他人的鞋底上打鞋底。人們與它們的工作間的整個關係有了很大改變。因此我認為這是一段有趣的影片，我把它分成16部份，與繪畫工具一起放上“機械土耳其人”。它主要用來——你在左側看到的是原作，右边是16个人對它的不同闡釋。他們完全不瞭解自己在做什麽。 這是我與一位朋友Takashi Kawashima合作的另一個項目的靈感來源。我們決定使用“機械土耳其人”最合適的功能，那就是製造金錢。所以我們拿來一張一百美元的鈔票，將它分成10,000塊碎片，我們將這些碎片放到了“機械土耳其人”上。我們請人們畫下他們所看到的東西，但這次沒有什麽“像綿羊”的標準。如果有人畫下小棍人或者笑臉，程序實際上也把圖像放入了鈔票中。所以你看到的實際上是人們所做的。這也就是他們所要做的。因此我們拿出些一百美元鈔票，把它們放在TenThousandsCents.com網站上，在那裡你可以瀏覽、查看每個人的貢獻。你也可以用真實的百元鈔票購買虛擬的鈔票，向一百美元手提電腦項目捐贈。該項目目前被叫做“每個孩子一本筆記本電腦”。這再次展示了各種不同貢獻。你看到有些人所做的漂亮的點刻法渲染，就像頂部的這一個作者—花了很多時間完成現實主義的版本。另一些人只畫些簡筆畫或者笑臉。中央的右上角這裡你可以看見有個傢伙在寫：「1美分!!!真的嗎？」我所做的一切就是爲了拿這點錢？ （笑聲） 我將要向你們介紹的最後一個“機械土耳其人”項目叫做“兩千人的自行車”。這是我與我的朋友Daniel Massey合作完成的。你可能認識這兩個人。他們是60年代貝爾實驗室的Max Mathews和John Kelly,他們創作了一首叫做《黛西·貝爾》的歌，這是世界上第一台會唱歌的電腦。它出現在電影《2001：太空漫遊》裡，當結尾HAL即將死去時，他開始唱這首歌，以紀念電腦初次展示人性的時刻。因此我們重新編排了這首歌。它聽起來是這樣的。我們把這首歌中的每一個音符和音節都拆開。 Daisy Bell（唱歌）：黛西，黛西... 我們分離出每一個片段，並把它們輸入另一項”機械土耳其人“任務中。如果你登陸網站，看到的就是這樣的界面。你需要輸入你的號碼，但首先要測試你的麥克風。你會聽到一段簡單的音頻。（嘟）之後你應該盡力用自己的聲音去模仿它。在預覽以及確認你的錄音后，你可以在對上文下理一無所知的情況下將錄音提交給“機械土耳其人”。這是我們從第一批提交的錄音中得到的： 錄音：（歌詞）黛西，黛西（歌詞）告訴我你的答案（歌詞）我已神魂顛倒（歌詞）只因對你的愛（歌詞）這不是華貴姻緣（歌詞）我買不起馬車（歌詞）但你在兩個人的單車後座上（歌詞）模樣會無比甜美 因此James Surowieki對於群體智慧有這樣的理解：一群人的集合比其中任何單獨一個人都要聰明。我們想看看這個理論如何在人們完全不知道自己在做什麽時應用於音樂的協同創作。所以如果你登陸BicycleBuiltforTwoThousand.com你可以親自聽到這些聲音合起來的樣子。我對此十分抱歉。 （噪聲） 合唱：黛西，黛西（歌詞）告訴我你的答案（歌詞）我已神魂顛倒（歌詞）只因對你的愛（歌詞）這不是華貴姻緣（歌詞）我買不起馬車（歌詞）但你在兩個人的單車後座上（歌詞）模樣會無比甜美 時間上後退一點，當我在加州大學洛杉磯分校讀研究生時，曾在一個叫做內嵌式網絡感測中心的地方工作。我為一台可視化激光掃描儀編寫程序。本質上就是三維空間內的運動。這被洛杉磯一位叫James Frost的導演看到了，他說：「等等，你的意思是我們可以製作一部實際上沒有使用視頻的音樂視頻？」實際上我們就這麼做了。我們為我最喜歡的樂隊之一，Radiohead，製作了一部音樂視頻。而我認為這個項目最讓我喜歡的部分並不只是用激光拍攝視頻，而是我們將它開源了。我們將它作為一項Google Code項目發布了，這樣人們就可以下載一部分數據以及源代碼，來搭建他們自己的版本。人們確實做出了一些令人驚奇的事情。這是我最喜歡的兩個：插針板Thom Yorke和樂高積木Thom Yorke有一個YouTube頻道充滿人們提交的有趣的內容。最近，甚至有人打印出了Thom Yorke的三維頭像，有點詭異，但確實很酷。 因此，當我看到人們製造這麼多神奇的內容並切實理解到他們在做什麼時，我真的很有興趣去搭建一個協作項目，讓人們共同努力進行創作。我遇到了一個音樂視頻導演，他叫Chris Milk。我們圍繞搭建一個協作音樂視頻項目而冒出各種想法。但我們知道實際上需要的是一個合適的人能夠在某種程度上讓人們集合起來，為他創造些什麼。因此在醞釀了幾個月之後，他終於拿出主意，與Rick Rubin進行了交談，此人當時正為Johnny Cash的最後一張名叫《Ain‘t No Grave》的專輯做收尾工作。主打歌的歌詞是“沒有墳墓可以讓我的身體安眠。”因此我們認為這會是一個完美的項目來共同紀念Johnny Cash，讓他以虛擬形象回歸。 因此我和好朋友Ricardo Cabello，又名“杜博先生”一起，他編程比我在行得多，編寫了這個神奇的Flash繪畫工具。如你所知,動畫就是一系列變換的圖片。因此我們從Johnny Cash的一段連續影片中截圖，每秒八幀。我們允許每個人畫下其中的一幀，用來編入這段處於動態變化之中的音樂視頻里。我沒有足夠的時間展示整個項目，不過我想給你們看兩個片段。一是音樂視頻的開頭。之後是一段已經參與到這個項目中的人們對於它作簡短的談論。 （音樂） （視頻）Johnny Cash: 沒有一座墳墓能將我的身軀安放沒有一座墳墓能將我的身軀安放當我聽到審判的喇叭聲響我將會徑直衝出地面沒有一座墳墓能將我的身軀安放…… （掌聲） 要向一個人致敬，還有什麽方法能比用他自己的一首歌進行創作更好呢？ 參與者：他去世時我真的很傷心，我覺得能為紀念他做出一點貢獻真的是非常美好，非常棒的一件事。 參與者二：這個項目實實在在地將他最後這一張唱片變成了有血有肉的紀念。 參與者三：所有這些喜愛他的人所畫的圖畫，單獨的每一幀，都有一種強烈的情感在裏面。 參與者四：我看到過各種人，來自日本，委內瑞拉，直到美國，直到田納西州的諾克西維爾。 參與者五：只要每一幀與另一幀有所不同，它就確實體現著個人特質。參與者六：在我自己的房間里看這段視頻時，一開始我不理解它，我只是努力攻克一個又一個難題，直到畫面中我種種細微的掙扎全部開始顯現出來。所以當我明白自己在做什麽時就確實看懂了要點，很多的明暗都圍繞它產生。很怪異地，這也是我最喜歡Johnny Cash的音樂的原因。這是他全部生命的總和，所有曾經發生過的事情——有壞事，有好事。你是在傾聽一段人生。 如果你登陸網站JohnnyCashProject.com，就會看到我剛剛播放的那段視頻。下面是單獨的每一幀，由參與這個項目的眾人提交。所以這個項目根本沒有結束，它是持續進行的，每個人都可以繼續參與其中。如果你用光標劃過這些小圖標中的任何一個，你都可以看到創作這幅圖的人以及他們所處的位置。如果發現一幅讓你感興趣的，可以單擊它，打開信息板面，在這裡為那一幀評分，得分高的圖畫會浮到頂上。你也可以查看它的創作過程。也可以看到重播，以及個人貢獻。隨此以外,還有列着圖像創作者的名字，地點，作畫所用的時間。你還可以選擇風格。例如這個被加上了“抽象”標籤。但其實有許多不同的風格。你可以用很多不同的方法組合這段視頻。比如說，「我想看看分色畫法的版本，或者寫生風格版本，或者現實主義版本。」這裡又是抽象的版本，結尾的方式有點瘋狂。 最後一個我想向你們介紹的是另一個與Chris Milk合作的項目。叫做“鬧市荒原”。它是“拱廊之火”樂隊的一個線上音樂視頻。現代網頁瀏覽器的潛力令Chris和我都十分著迷，你可以使用HTML5添加音頻和視頻，以及JavaScript出色的渲染速度。於是我們打算推廣為網絡量身定做的音樂視頻理念，突破4:3或者16:9窗口，試著讓音樂大聲播放，讓舞蹈動作充滿屏幕。但我覺得，最重要的在於，我們真的想要創造一種與Johnny Cash項目不同的體驗，那個項目中，一小部份人花費了大量時間來為每一個人貢獻作品。如果我們只需要非常小的付出，而讓每一個參與者都能得到個人化的、獨特的東西呢？ 因此這個項目首先要求你輸入你在成長的家的地址。輸入地址之後——它實際上創造出一段專門為你打造的音樂視頻，將Google地圖和Streetview圖像加入到體驗之中。所以你確實應該在家裡輸入你自己的地址來欣賞它，不過我要給你們一點小小的預告。 （視頻） Win Butler: 現在我們的生活飛速改變（歌詞）現在我們的生活飛速改變（歌詞）但願有些純淨可以留存（歌詞）但願有些純淨可以留存（歌詞）噢，我們曾習慣等待（歌詞）噢，我們曾習慣等待（歌詞）噢，我們曾習慣等待（歌詞）有時希望永遠不來（歌詞）有時希望永遠不來（歌詞）仍然在痛苦中前行（歌詞）我們曾習慣等它到來（歌詞）我們曾習慣等它到來（歌詞）We used to wait for it 所以我覺得，如果我今天的演講中有什麽值得回味的話，就是交互介面可以成為一種強大的敘述裝置。隨著我們所收集的與個人和社會相關的數據越來越多，我們就有機會，或者甚至有一種責任，通過共同的探索與合作，保持人性，講述這些神奇的故事。 非常感謝。 （掌聲）
