Talk	en	zh-tw
abraham_verghese_a_doctor_s_touch	"A few months ago, a 40 year-old woman came to an emergency room in a hospital close to where I live, and she was brought in confused. Her blood pressure was an alarming 230 over 170. Within a few minutes, she went into cardiac collapse. She was resuscitated, stabilized, whisked over to a CAT scan suite right next to the emergency room, because they were concerned about blood clots in the lung. And the CAT scan revealed no blood clots in the lung, but it showed bilateral, visible, palpable breast masses, breast tumors, that had metastasized widely all over the body. And the real tragedy was, if you look through her records, she had been seen in four or five other health care institutions in the preceding two years. Four or five opportunities to see the breast masses, touch the breast mass, intervene at a much earlier stage than when we saw her. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not an unusual story. Unfortunately, it happens all the time. I joke, but I only half joke, that if you come to one of our hospitals missing a limb, no one will believe you till they get a CAT scan, MRI or orthopedic consult. I am not a Luddite. I teach at Stanford. I'm a physician practicing with cutting-edge technology. But I'd like to make the case to you in the next 17 minutes that when we shortcut the physical exam, when we lean towards ordering tests instead of talking to and examining the patient, we not only overlook simple diagnoses that can be diagnosed at a treatable, early stage, but we're losing much more than that. We're losing a ritual. We're losing a ritual that I believe is transformative, transcendent, and is at the heart of the patient-physician relationship. This may actually be heresy to say this at TED, but I'd like to introduce you to the most important innovation, I think, in medicine to come in the next 10 years, and that is the power of the human hand — to touch, to comfort, to diagnose and to bring about treatment. I'd like to introduce you first to this person whose image you may or may not recognize. This is Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Since we're in Edinburgh, I'm a big fan of Conan Doyle. You might not know that Conan Doyle went to medical school here in Edinburgh, and his character, Sherlock Holmes, was inspired by Sir Joseph Bell. Joseph Bell was an extraordinary teacher by all accounts. And Conan Doyle, writing about Bell, described the following exchange between Bell and his students. So picture Bell sitting in the outpatient department, students all around him, patients signing up in the emergency room and being registered and being brought in. And a woman comes in with a child, and Conan Doyle describes the following exchange. The woman says, ""Good Morning."" Bell says, ""What sort of crossing did you have on the ferry from Burntisland?"" She says, ""It was good."" And he says, ""What did you do with the other child?"" She says, ""I left him with my sister at Leith."" And he says, ""And did you take the shortcut down Inverleith Row to get here to the infirmary?"" She says, ""I did."" And he says, ""Would you still be working at the linoleum factory?"" And she says, ""I am."" And Bell then goes on to explain to the students. He says, ""You see, when she said, 'Good morning,' I picked up her Fife accent. And the nearest ferry crossing from Fife is from Burntisland. And so she must have taken the ferry over. You notice that the coat she's carrying is too small for the child who is with her, and therefore, she started out the journey with two children, but dropped one off along the way. You notice the clay on the soles of her feet. Such red clay is not found within a hundred miles of Edinburgh, except in the botanical gardens. And therefore, she took a short cut down Inverleith Row to arrive here. And finally, she has a dermatitis on the fingers of her right hand, a dermatitis that is unique to the linoleum factory workers in Burntisland."" And when Bell actually strips the patient, begins to examine the patient, you can only imagine how much more he would discern. And as a teacher of medicine, as a student myself, I was so inspired by that story. But you might not realize that our ability to look into the body in this simple way, using our senses, is quite recent. The picture I'm showing you is of Leopold Auenbrugger who, in the late 1700s, discovered percussion. And the story is that Leopold Auenbrugger was the son of an innkeeper. And his father used to go down into the basement to tap on the sides of casks of wine to determine how much wine was left and whether to reorder. And so when Auenbrugger became a physician, he began to do the same thing. He began to tap on the chests of his patients, on their abdomens. And basically everything we know about percussion, which you can think of as an ultrasound of its day — organ enlargement, fluid around the heart, fluid in the lungs, abdominal changes — all of this he described in this wonderful manuscript ""Inventum Novum,"" ""New Invention,"" which would have disappeared into obscurity, except for the fact that this physician, Corvisart, a famous French physician — famous only because he was physician to this gentleman — Corvisart repopularized and reintroduced the work. And it was followed a year or two later by Laennec discovering the stethoscope. Laennec, it is said, was walking in the streets of Paris and saw two children playing with a stick. One was scratching at the end of the stick, another child listened at the other end. And Laennec thought this would be a wonderful way to listen to the chest or listen to the abdomen using what he called ""the cylinder."" Later he renamed it the stethoscope. And that is how stethoscope and auscultation was born. So within a few years, in the late 1800s, early 1900s, all of a sudden, the barber surgeon had given way to the physician who was trying to make a diagnosis. If you'll recall, prior to that time, no matter what ailed you, you went to see the barber surgeon who wound up cupping you, bleeding you, purging you. And, oh yes, if you wanted, he would give you a haircut — short on the sides, long in the back — and pull your tooth while he was at it. He made no attempt at diagnosis. In fact, some of you might well know that the barber pole, the red and white stripes, represents the blood bandages of the barber surgeon, and the receptacles on either end represent the pots in which the blood was collected. But the arrival of auscultation and percussion represented a sea change, a moment when physicians were beginning to look inside the body. And this particular painting, I think, represents the pinnacle, the peak, of that clinical era. This is a very famous painting: ""The Doctor"" by Luke Fildes. Luke Fildes was commissioned to paint this by Tate, who then established the Tate Gallery. And Tate asked Fildes to paint a painting of social importance. And it's interesting that Fildes picked this topic. Fildes' oldest son, Philip, died at the age of nine on Christmas Eve after a brief illness. And Fildes was so taken by the physician who held vigil at the bedside for two, three nights, that he decided that he would try and depict the physician in our time — almost a tribute to this physician. And hence the painting ""The Doctor,"" a very famous painting. It's been on calendars, postage stamps in many different countries. I've often wondered, what would Fildes have done had he been asked to paint this painting in the modern era, in the year 2011? Would he have substituted a computer screen for where he had the patient? I've gotten into some trouble in Silicon Valley for saying that the patient in the bed has almost become an icon for the real patient who's in the computer. I've actually coined a term for that entity in the computer. I call it the iPatient. The iPatient is getting wonderful care all across America. The real patient often wonders, where is everyone? When are they going to come by and explain things to me? Who's in charge? There's a real disjunction between the patient's perception and our own perceptions as physicians of the best medical care. I want to show you a picture of what rounds looked like when I was in training. The focus was around the patient. We went from bed to bed. The attending physician was in charge. Too often these days, rounds look very much like this, where the discussion is taking place in a room far away from the patient. The discussion is all about images on the computer, data. And the one critical piece missing is that of the patient. Now I've been influenced in this thinking by two anecdotes that I want to share with you. One had to do with a friend of mine who had a breast cancer, had a small breast cancer detected — had her lumpectomy in the town in which I lived. This is when I was in Texas. And she then spent a lot of time researching to find the best cancer center in the world to get her subsequent care. And she found the place and decided to go there, went there. Which is why I was surprised a few months later to see her back in our own town, getting her subsequent care with her private oncologist. And I pressed her, and I asked her, ""Why did you come back and get your care here?"" And she was reluctant to tell me. She said, ""The cancer center was wonderful. It had a beautiful facility, giant atrium, valet parking, a piano that played itself, a concierge that took you around from here to there. But,"" she said, ""but they did not touch my breasts."" Now you and I could argue that they probably did not need to touch her breasts. They had her scanned inside out. They understood her breast cancer at the molecular level; they had no need to touch her breasts. But to her, it mattered deeply. It was enough for her to make the decision to get her subsequent care with her private oncologist who, every time she went, examined both breasts including the axillary tail, examined her axilla carefully, examined her cervical region, her inguinal region, did a thorough exam. And to her, that spoke of a kind of attentiveness that she needed. I was very influenced by that anecdote. I was also influenced by another experience that I had, again, when I was in Texas, before I moved to Stanford. I had a reputation as being interested in patients with chronic fatigue. This is not a reputation you would wish on your worst enemy. I say that because these are difficult patients. They have often been rejected by their families, have had bad experiences with medical care and they come to you fully prepared for you to join the long list of people who's about to disappoint them. And I learned very early on with my first patient that I could not do justice to this very complicated patient with all the records they were bringing in a new patient visit of 45 minutes. There was just no way. And if I tried, I'd disappoint them. And so I hit on this method where I invited the patient to tell me the story for their entire first visit, and I tried not to interrupt them. We know the average American physician interrupts their patient in 14 seconds. And if I ever get to heaven, it will be because I held my piece for 45 minutes and did not interrupt my patient. I then scheduled the physical exam for two weeks hence, and when the patient came for the physical, I was able to do a thorough physical, because I had nothing else to do. I like to think that I do a thorough physical exam, but because the whole visit was now about the physical, I could do an extraordinarily thorough exam. And I remember my very first patient in that series continued to tell me more history during what was meant to be the physical exam visit. And I began my ritual. I always begin with the pulse, then I examine the hands, then I look at the nail beds, then I slide my hand up to the epitrochlear node, and I was into my ritual. And when my ritual began, this very voluble patient began to quiet down. And I remember having a very eerie sense that the patient and I had slipped back into a primitive ritual in which I had a role and the patient had a role. And when I was done, the patient said to me with some awe, ""I have never been examined like this before."" Now if that were true, it's a true condemnation of our health care system, because they had been seen in other places. I then proceeded to tell the patient, once the patient was dressed, the standard things that the person must have heard in other institutions, which is, ""This is not in your head. This is real. The good news, it's not cancer, it's not tuberculosis, it's not coccidioidomycosis or some obscure fungal infection. The bad news is we don't know exactly what's causing this, but here's what you should do, here's what we should do."" And I would lay out all the standard treatment options that the patient had heard elsewhere. And I always felt that if my patient gave up the quest for the magic doctor, the magic treatment and began with me on a course towards wellness, it was because I had earned the right to tell them these things by virtue of the examination. Something of importance had transpired in the exchange. I took this to my colleagues at Stanford in anthropology and told them the same story. And they immediately said to me, ""Well you are describing a classic ritual."" And they helped me understand that rituals are all about transformation. We marry, for example, with great pomp and ceremony and expense to signal our departure from a life of solitude and misery and loneliness to one of eternal bliss. I'm not sure why you're laughing. That was the original intent, was it not? We signal transitions of power with rituals. We signal the passage of a life with rituals. Rituals are terribly important. They're all about transformation. Well I would submit to you that the ritual of one individual coming to another and telling them things that they would not tell their preacher or rabbi, and then, incredibly on top of that, disrobing and allowing touch — I would submit to you that that is a ritual of exceeding importance. And if you shortchange that ritual by not undressing the patient, by listening with your stethoscope on top of the nightgown, by not doing a complete exam, you have bypassed on the opportunity to seal the patient-physician relationship. I am a writer, and I want to close by reading you a short passage that I wrote that has to do very much with this scene. I'm an infectious disease physician, and in the early days of HIV, before we had our medications, I presided over so many scenes like this. I remember, every time I went to a patient's deathbed, whether in the hospital or at home, I remember my sense of failure — the feeling of I don't know what I have to say; I don't know what I can say; I don't know what I'm supposed to do. And out of that sense of failure, I remember, I would always examine the patient. I would pull down the eyelids. I would look at the tongue. I would percuss the chest. I would listen to the heart. I would feel the abdomen. I remember so many patients, their names still vivid on my tongue, their faces still so clear. I remember so many huge, hollowed out, haunted eyes staring up at me as I performed this ritual. And then the next day, I would come, and I would do it again. And I wanted to read you this one closing passage about one patient. ""I recall one patient who was at that point no more than a skeleton encased in shrinking skin, unable to speak, his mouth crusted with candida that was resistant to the usual medications. When he saw me on what turned out to be his last hours on this earth, his hands moved as if in slow motion. And as I wondered what he was up to, his stick fingers made their way up to his pajama shirt, fumbling with his buttons. I realized that he was wanting to expose his wicker-basket chest to me. It was an offering, an invitation. I did not decline. I percussed. I palpated. I listened to the chest. I think he surely must have known by then that it was vital for me just as it was necessary for him. Neither of us could skip this ritual, which had nothing to do with detecting rales in the lung, or finding the gallop rhythm of heart failure. No, this ritual was about the one message that physicians have needed to convey to their patients. Although, God knows, of late, in our hubris, we seem to have drifted away. We seem to have forgotten — as though, with the explosion of knowledge, the whole human genome mapped out at our feet, we are lulled into inattention, forgetting that the ritual is cathartic to the physician, necessary for the patient — forgetting that the ritual has meaning and a singular message to convey to the patient. And the message, which I didn't fully understand then, even as I delivered it, and which I understand better now is this: I will always, always, always be there. I will see you through this. I will never abandon you. I will be with you through the end."" Thank you very much. (Applause)"	幾個月前，一位四十歲的婦人來到急診室在我住處附近的一家醫院內她被送進來時，身體狀況混亂她的血壓拉警報收縮壓230，舒張壓170幾分鐘內，她的心臟衰竭她被施以心肺復甦、穩定下來快速送到電腦斷層掃瞄室就在急診室旁因為他們擔心肺部有血塊電腦斷層掃瞄顯示在肺部沒有血塊但胸部兩邊，有許多明顯、觸即可知的腫塊胸部腫瘤已經轉移擴散遍及全身真正可悲的是，若你翻閱其病歷表記錄她已在其他四、五家醫療照護機構中接受過檢查接著幾年下來有四到五次的機會可以發現那些胸部腫塊甚至也摸的出更早期就出現的胸部腫塊不用等到我們見到她 各位女士、各位先生這不是一個非比尋常的故事很遺憾的是，這事老是發生我開玩笑；但只是半開玩笑如果你斷了一肢手臂或腿來到全美任何一家醫院沒有人會相信你，除非他們做了電腦斷層掃瞄、磁共振造影或骨外科會診我不是一個反科技的人(Luddite)我在史丹佛授課我是一個以尖端科技執業的醫生但我在接下來的17分鐘想向你們證實當我們省略檢查身體的步驟當我們依賴安排測試而非跟病人談話、檢查病人我們不只輕忽簡單的診斷 —在可療癒的初期階段就能被診斷 —而且我們錯失的還不只是那樣我們遺失一項儀式我們正失掉了一種我相信是能改變、能超越的儀式這同時也是醫病關係中的核心在TED大會說這個，也許確實怪異，但我想向你們推介這個極重要的變革我認為，在醫學方面在下一個十年的來臨是人類手的威力 —去碰觸、紓解、診斷並且帶入治療 我首先想介紹你們這個人他的照片你們也許認得，也許不認得這是亞瑟‧柯南‧道爾先生( Sir Arthur Conan Doyle)從我們在愛丁堡，我就是個超級柯南‧道爾迷你們可能不曉得柯南‧道爾進入醫學院在愛丁堡這兒而他筆下的人物夏洛克‧福爾摩斯(Sherlock Holmes)是以喬瑟夫‧貝爾 (Sir Joseph Bell)為創作靈感根據各方說法，喬瑟夫‧貝爾是一位超凡出色的老師柯南‧道爾描寫貝爾描述下述貝爾和其學生間的交流 想像貝爾坐在門診部學生們包圍住他病人在急診室填寫資料然後被登記並領入一位女士帶著一個孩子進來柯南‧道爾描寫下述的交談那女人說：「早安」貝爾問：「從奔提斯蘭(Burntisland)搭渡輪過海行程怎樣啊?」她回答：「一切平順。」他接著問：「你的另一個小孩呢?」她回答：「我留他在里斯(Leith)我姊姊家。」他接著問：「你走捷徑往印佛里斯(Inverleith Row)來到醫院這兒的嗎?」她回應：「是的。」他接著問：「你仍是在油蠟地板工廠工作嗎?」她回應：「是的。」 貝爾接著轉向學生解說他說：「你們瞧，在她說『早安』時我學起她的Fife(位於蘇格蘭東方)口音從Fife來最近的渡輪旅程是由奔提斯蘭(Burntisland)因而，她必定乘渡輪而來。你們有注意到她拿著的那件外套對和她一道來的那孩子而言，太小了因此，她開始是和兩個孩童同行但在途中放下一個小孩你們注意看她雙腳底下的土這樣的紅土在愛丁堡方圓一百英里內看不到除了在植物園由此可知，她走捷徑往印佛里斯(Inverleith Row)來到這兒的最後一點，她有皮膚炎在她右手的手指該皮膚炎是好發於奔提斯蘭(Burntisland)油蠟地板工廠的工人。」而其實，當貝爾讓病人脫去衣物開始檢查病人，你能想像到，他會覺察出的又更多身為一位醫學老師，也身為一位學生這故事激發我的靈感 但你可能不了解我們以這樣簡單的方式使用我們的感官，來檢查身體是相當近代的方法我讓你們看的這張圖像是李奧波得‧奧恩布魯格(Leopold Auenbrugger)在18世紀末他發現「叩診法」故事是李奧波得‧奧恩布魯格(Leopold Auenbrugger)是一位旅館老闆的兒子他的父親過去常會到地下室輕敲酒桶側面以判定還剩多少酒決定是否要再訂酒因此當李奧波得(Auenbrugger)成為一名醫生他開始效法其父之舉他開始輕敲病患的胸膛他們的腹部基本上，我們對叩診的了解你可以想成是那個時代的超音波 —器官腫大、心臟周圍的流體、肺中流體腹部變化 —所有叩診法門他都敍述在這本精采的手冊《創新發明(Inventum Novum拉丁文)》這本書本會如石沈大海，無人聞問要不是這名醫生柯比沙特(Corvisart)他是位有名的法國醫生 —出名只因為他是這位男士的醫生 —柯比沙特(Corvisart)重新宣揚並採用這法門 約一、兩年後，接著雷涅克(Laennec)發明了聽診器據說，雷涅克(Laennec)當時走在巴黎的街道看到二個小孩玩著一根棍子一個小孩在一端刮著另一個小孩在另一頭聽著雷涅克(Laennec)認為這會是一種妙法來聽診胸部或腹部用他稱之為「圓筒」的東西稍後他為其重新命名為聽診器(stethoscope)這就是聽診器和聽診問世的原由所以在幾年內在十九世紀末、二十世紀初倏然「理髮師兼外科手術師」已被試圖作診斷的醫生取代 如果回想在那以前無論什麼讓你不適、痛苦，你向「理髮師兼外科手術師」求助他們到頭來對你拔罐放血、通腸當然，若你想的話他會幫你理髮 — 兩旁短，後面長 —順便拔掉你的牙他無心診斷事實上，你們某些人也很可能知道理髮師的紅白相間圓筒招牌代表「理髮師兼外科手術師」的血液繃帶而底座的托盆則相當於承接血液的鍋盆但聽診和叩診的問世意味著瞬息巨大的轉變醫生開始檢察人體內部的時期開始 而我認為這張獨特的畫作象徵著臨床時代的巔峰高點這是一幅很有名的彩畫《醫生》由路克‧菲爾德茲(Luke Fildes)路克‧菲爾德茲受塔特(Tate)所託此人當時創立英國塔特美術館(Tate Gallery)塔特要求菲爾德茲繪出「社會的重要性」的畫而有趣的是，菲爾德茲選擇了這個主題菲爾德茲之長子菲力普(Philip)在九歲時的聖誕節前夕在一場短暫的病後歸天而菲爾德茲深深感念醫師的舉措 —這位醫生在一旁守護兩、三夜他便決定嘗試描繪美國那時代的醫生 —可說是對該醫生致敬意因而此畫作《醫生》頗負盛名在很多國家的日曆或月曆和郵票上都可以看到我常在想，菲爾德茲會怎麼做要是他被要求畫這幅畫在現代?在2011年?他會改繪畫「電腦銀幕」在「病人」的位置嗎? 在矽谷(Silicon Valley)我已惹上一些麻煩因我說在病榻的病人已幾乎成了雕像在電腦內的是真正的病人事實上，我給電腦內的實體造了個詞我稱其為「iPatient」全美「iPatient」得到無微不至的看照真正的病人常奇怪人都上哪去了?他們何時才會來向我說明我的情況?誰負責的?確實有分歧存在於病人的觀感和身為最佳醫療保健醫師的我們自己的觀感 我要讓你們看張照片關於巡診是怎麼一回事當我還在受訓時焦點是投注在病人身上我們一張病床巡過一張病床，由主治醫生負責這些日子大多數巡診八九不離十看起來就像這樣病情討論的地點就在遠離病人的小會議室討論的內容不外乎是電腦影像、數據資料而遺漏了關鍵的那部分就是病人 現在我有這種想法，而且我已經受兩件發生在我周遭的事所影響，我要跟你們分享。一件是與我的那位曾罹患胸癌的友人有關其被偵察到有小型胸癌在我過去居住的城市中，進行她的乳房腫瘤切除這是當我還在德州時發生的事而且她那時花了好多時間研究為了找出世界最佳癌症中心獲得後續照護她找到那個地方、決定去那並到了那裡。那是為何我會訝異，在幾個月後看到她重返我們自己的城市接受私人腫瘤專家的後續照護 我打破砂鍋似的追問她：「為何你回來這兒接受照護?」而她不情不願的告訴我。她說：「那間癌症中心是好極了有完備的設施有寬敞的中庭、代客泊車自動彈奏的鋼琴領著你四處逛的接待但......」，她說：「但他們不觸碰我的胸部。」此時你和我會爭論他們大可能不用觸碰她的胸部他們將她由裡到外掃瞄他們了解她胸癌的分子狀態他們不需觸碰她的胸部 但對她而言，卻是很重要足以讓她作出決定聘用她私人的腫瘤專家作後續照護每次那腫瘤專家看診檢查兩邊胸部，包括腋窩尾部仔細地檢查她的腋窩檢查她的頸部、她的腹股溝區域作全面徹底的檢查而且對她而言，這表明了她需要的關注我深受那件事影響 另一個經歷也讓我心有所感同樣，我還在德州，未搬到史丹佛時眾所周知我關注於慢性疲勞症的病患就是你最難纏的敵人，你也不願其被冠上這樣的名號我這麼說，是因為這些是棘手的病人他們往往無法得到家人的體諒他們歷經不佳的醫療對待他們來到你這兒已作好打算把你列入那長串名單中會讓他們失望的人之一我在很早時就由我的首位病人了解我無法充分審視這位經歷曲折複雜的病人憑著隨著他們走的病歷記錄以及由和一位新病人45分鐘的門診知道的真的沒辦法若我這麼做，我會令他們失望 所以我想到了這個方法我鼓勵病人在他們首次到診時，告訴我他們的病史我試著不去打斷他們我們曉得美國醫師平均14秒打斷他們的病人的話而若我真到了天堂那是因為我靜候不語45分鐘且不打斷病人說話然後我排定兩週後的身體檢查當那病人到診檢查身體我能執行一個徹底的身體檢查因為那是我能做的我喜歡認為自己執行一個徹底的身體檢查但因此時這整個回診是有關身體檢查我可以執行徹徹底底的檢查 我記得我那首位病人在一聯串檢查中繼續告訴我更多的病史在安排用來作身體檢查的看診時間我開始診斷儀式我總是由把脈開始然後我檢查其雙手，接著我檢視其指甲肉床然後我的手上移去觸診上滑車淋巴結我熱衷於診斷的儀式我的診斷儀式開始時這位滔滔不絶的病人開始安靜無聲我記得有種奇異的氛圍我和病人不知不覺地進入原始的儀式在儀式中我有個任務病人有一個任務我完成儀式時病人語帶敬畏的對我說：「我之前從未被像這樣子檢查過。」若那真是如此我們的醫療照護體制就責無旁貸因為他們已在其他地方就診過 我接著告訴病人待他穿好衣衫時所謂的「制式標準」──那人必定在其他醫療機構已有所聞就是：「這不是你腦袋想的；這是真的。好消息是，這不是癌症；這不是結核病不是球黴菌症或某種不知名的黴菌感染。壞消息是，我們不曉得究竟是什麼導致的但這兒是你應做的；這兒是我們該做的。」我會列出所有的標準治療供選擇病人在別處已有所聞 我總認為若我的病人放棄尋求巫醫、巫術治療並開始與我進行一項創造健康的療程是因為我已得其精髓藉著檢查的過程告知他們這些事情某個東西的重要性在交流中已昭然若揭我把這與我在史丹佛人類學的同事分享並告訴他們同樣的故事他們立刻對我說：「嗯，你說的是一種古典的儀式。」且他們幫助我了解儀式是關於徹底改觀或轉變 舉例來說，人們結婚由場面壯觀、儀式隆重及大手筆的花費以宣告脫離寂寞、悲慘和孤單的生活投身永恆美滿幸福人生我不知道為何你們在笑這是初始的意圖對吧?我們發出權力交接的訊號透過儀式我們發出人生邁入新階段的訊號，透過儀式儀式非常的重要關乎徹底轉變我向你們主張這個儀式一個人來到另一人面前告訴他們事情那是他們不會對牧師或拉比(rabbi)吐露的話難以置信尤勝之的是脫去衣物和允許觸碰 —我向你們主張，那是一項極為重要的儀式若你跳過儀式，當為而不為不脫去病人衣物而用你的聽診器在睡袍上聽診不執行全套的檢查你已錯過機會建立醫生與病人之間聯結 我是一個作家我要念一段我寫的文章來結束今天演說與這場景大為相關我是一名傳染性疾病的醫師在愛滋病的早期，在有醫療資源前我負責很多諸如此類的場合我記得，每次我走到病人的床榻無論是在醫院或在家中我記得我的挫折感 —我不知道我必須說些什麼的那種感覺我不曉得我能說什麼我不清楚我應該要做些什麼擺脫那種挫敗感我記得，我總會檢查病人我會下拉其眼瞼我會檢視其舌頭我會輕叩其胸膛，我會聆聽其心臟我會觸摸其腹部我記得諸多的病人他們的名字我仍然叫得出來他們的臉龐依然如此清晰我記得一雙雙斗大、凹陷、愁困的眼睛當我執行這項儀式盯著我接著，第二天我會再來並重覆執行這項儀式 我要向你們朗讀這篇尾聲的小節與某個病患有關「我回想起某個病人在那一刻他瘦骨嶙峋被一層萎縮的皮包覆著無法說話他的嘴覆蓋著念珠菌那對一般的醫療藥品有抗藥力當他看到我時正是他在這個地球停滯的最後幾小時他的雙手彷彿是以慢速在移動當我奇怪他正想做什麼時他如枝條般的手指慢慢地移向他的睡衣摸索著衣扣我了解他正想要讓我看他那如柳條所編織出的胸膛。這是一項提供、一項邀約我沒拒絶 我輕敲、觸摸、耹聽其胸膛我想他那時想必已知曉這對我而言是極為重要的正如對他而言是必要的我倆皆不會略過這項儀式這無關乎診察肺中的羅音(rale)也無關於發現心臟衰竭的馬奔律動(gallop rhythm)不，這儀式是關於一個訊息醫師有必要傳達給他們的病人雖然，天知道，近來，在我們的傲慢驕盈中我們似乎已漸行漸遠我們似乎已忘卻 —彷彿，隨著知識的爆炸整個人類基因體攤開在我們的腳前我們漫不經心忘了對醫師而言，這項儀式是淨化導引對病人是種需要 —忘了儀式的意義有微妙的訊息要傳遞給病人 那時，我尚不完全明白訊息的含意當在我傳達它時而現在我對它有較佳理解：「我將永遠、永遠、永遠在那裡，我將助你渡過此關；我將永不離棄你，我會伴著你直到穿越終點。」 非常感謝你們 (掌聲)
