Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_savage_my_love_letter_to_cosplay	"There's this fact that I love that I read somewhere once, that one of the things that's contributed to homo sapiens' success as a species is our lack of body hair — that our hairlessness, our nakedness combined with our invention of clothing, gives us the ability to modulate our body temperature and thus be able to survive in any climate we choose. And now we've evolved to the point where we can't survive without clothing. And it's more than just utility, now it's a communication. Everything that we choose to put on is a narrative, a story about where we've been, what we're doing, who we want to be. I was a lonely kid. I didn't have an easy time finding friends to play with, and I ended up making a lot of my own play. I made a lot of my own toys. It began with ice cream. There was a Baskin-Robbins in my hometown, and they served ice cream from behind the counter in these giant, five-gallon, cardboard tubs. And someone told me — I was eight years old — someone told me that when they were done with those tubs, they washed them out and kept them in the back, and if you asked they would give you one. It took me a couple of weeks to work up the courage, but I did, and they did. They gave me one — I went home with this beautiful cardboard tub. I was trying to figure out what I could do with this exotic material — metal ring, top and bottom. I started turning it over in my head, and I realized, ""Wait a minute — my head actually fits inside this thing."" (Laughter) Yeah, I cut a hole out, I put some acetate in there and I made myself a space helmet. (Laughter) I needed a place to wear the space helmet, so I found a refrigerator box a couple blocks from home. I pushed it home, and in my parents' guest room closet, I turned it into a spaceship. I started with a control panel out of cardboard. I cut a hole for a radar screen and put a flashlight underneath it to light it. I put a view screen up, which I offset off the back wall — and this is where I thought I was being really clever — without permission, I painted the back wall of the closet black and put a star field, which I lit up with some Christmas lights I found in the attic, and I went on some space missions. A couple years later, the movie ""Jaws"" came out. I was way too young to see it, but I was caught up in ""Jaws"" fever, like everyone else in America at the time. There was a store in my town that had a ""Jaws"" costume in their window, and my mom must have overheard me talking to someone about how awesome I thought this costume was, because a couple days before Halloween, she blew my freaking mind by giving me this ""Jaws"" costume. Now, I recognize it's a bit of a trope for people of a certain age to complain that kids these days have no idea how good they have it, but let me just show you a random sampling of entry-level kids' costumes you can buy online right now ... ... and this is the ""Jaws"" costume my mom bought for me. (Laughter) This is a paper-thin shark face and a vinyl bib with the poster of ""Jaws"" on it. (Laughter) And I loved it. A couple years later, my dad took me to a film called ""Excalibur."" I actually got him to take me to it twice, which is no small thing, because it is a hard, R-rated film. But it wasn't the blood and guts or the boobs that made me want to go see it again. They helped — (Laughter) It was the armor. The armor in ""Excalibur"" was intoxicatingly beautiful to me. These were literally knights in shining, mirror-polished armor. And moreover, the knights in ""Excalibur"" wear their armor everywhere. All the time — they wear it at dinner, they wear it to bed. (Laughter) I was like, ""Are they reading my mind? I want to wear armor all the time!"" (Laughter) So I went back to my favorite material, the gateway drug for making, corrugated cardboard, and I made myself a suit of armor, replete with the neck shields and a white horse. Now that I've oversold it, here's a picture of the armor that I made. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, this is only the first suit of armor I made inspired by ""Excalibur."" A couple of years later, I convinced my dad to embark on making me a proper suit of armor. Over about a month, he graduated me from cardboard to roofing aluminum called flashing and still, one of my all-time favorite attachment materials, POP rivets. We carefully, over that month, constructed an articulated suit of aluminum armor with compound curves. We drilled holes in the helmet so that I could breathe, and I finished just in time for Halloween and wore it to school. Now, this is the one thing in this talk that I don't have a slide to show you, because no photo exists of this armor. I did wear it to school, there was a yearbook photographer patrolling the halls, but he never found me, for reasons that are about to become clear. There were things I didn't anticipate about wearing a complete suit of aluminum armor to school. In third period math, I was standing in the back of class, and I'm standing in the back of class because the armor did not allow me to sit down. (Laughter) This is the first thing I didn't anticipate. And then my teacher looks at me sort of concerned about halfway through the class and says, ""Are you feeling OK?"" I'm thinking, ""Are you kidding? Am I feeling OK? I'm wearing a suit of armor! I am having the time of my —"" And I'm just about to tell her how great I feel, when the classroom starts to list to the left and disappear down this long tunnel, and then I woke up in the nurse's office. I had passed out from heat exhaustion, wearing the armor. And when I woke up, I wasn't embarrassed about having passed out in front of my class, I was wondering, ""Who took my armor? Where's my armor?"" OK, fast-forward a whole bunch of years, some colleagues and I get hired to make a show for Discovery Channel, called ""MythBusters."" And over 14 years, I learn on the job how to build experimental methodologies and how to tell stories about them for television. I also learn early on that costuming can play a key role in this storytelling. I use costumes to add humor, comedy, color and narrative clarity to the stories we're telling. And then we do an episode called ""Dumpster Diving,"" and I learn a little bit more about the deeper implications of what costuming means to me. In the episode ""Dumpster Diving,"" the question we were trying to answer is: Is jumping into a dumpster as safe as the movies would lead you to believe? (Laughter) The episode was going to have two distinct parts to it. One was where we get trained to jump off buildings by a stuntman into an air bag. And the second was the graduation to the experiment: we'd fill a dumpster full of material and we'd jump into it. I wanted to visually separate these two elements, and I thought, ""Well, for the first part we're training, so we should wear sweatsuits — Oh! Let's put 'Stunt Trainee' on the back of the sweatsuits. That's for the training."" But for the second part, I wanted something really visually striking — ""I know! I'll dress as Neo from 'The Matrix.'"" (Laughter) So I went to Haight Street. I bought some beautiful knee-high, buckle boots. I found a long, flowing coat on eBay. I got sunglasses, which I had to wear contact lenses in order to wear. The day of the experiment shoot comes up, and I step out of my car in this costume, and my crew takes a look at me ... and start suppressing their church giggles. They're like, ""(Laugh sound)."" And I feel two distinct things at this moment. I feel total embarrassment over the fact that it's so nakedly clear to my crew that I'm completely into wearing this costume. (Laughter) But the producer in my mind reminds myself that in the high-speed shot in slow-mo, that flowing coat is going to look beautiful behind me. (Laughter) Five years into the ""MythBusters"" run, we got invited to appear at San Diego Comic-Con. I'd known about Comic-Con for years and never had time to go. This was the big leagues — this was costuming mecca. People fly in from all over the world to show their amazing creations on the floor in San Diego. And I wanted to participate. I decided that I would put together an elaborate costume that covered me completely, and I would walk the floor of San Diego Comic-Con anonymously. The costume I chose? Hellboy. That's not my costume, that's actually Hellboy. (Laughter) But I spent months assembling the most screen-accurate Hellboy costume I could, from the boots to the belt to the pants to the right hand of doom. I found a guy who made a prosthetic Hellboy head and chest and I put them on. I even had contact lenses made in my prescription. I wore it onto the floor at Comic-Con and I can't even tell you how balls hot it was in that costume. (Laughter) Sweating! I should've remembered this. I'm sweating buckets and the contact lenses hurt my eyes, and none of it matters because I'm totally in love. (Laughter) Not just with the process of putting on this costume and walking the floor, but also with the community of other costumers. It's not called costuming at Cons, it's called ""cosplay."" Now ostensibly, cosplay means people who dress up as their favorite characters from film and television and especially anime, but it is so much more than that. These aren't just people who find a costume and put it on — they mash them up. They bend them to their will. They change them to be the characters they want to be in those productions. They're super clever and genius. They let their freak flag fly and it's beautiful. (Laughter) But more than that, they rehearse their costumes. At Comic-Con or any other Con, you don't just take pictures of people walking around. You go up and say, ""Hey, I like your costume, can I take your picture?"" And then you give them time to get into their pose. They've worked hard on their pose to make their costume look great for your camera. And it's so beautiful to watch. And I take this to heart. At subsequent Cons, I learn Heath Ledger's shambling walk as the Joker from ""The Dark Knight."" I learn how to be a scary Ringwraith from ""Lord of the Rings,"" and I actually frighten some children. I learned that ""hrr hrr hrr"" — that head laugh that Chewbacca does. And then I dressed up as No-Face from ""Spirited Away."" If you don't know about ""Spirited Away"" and its director, Hayao Miyazaki, first of all, you're welcome. (Laughter) This is a masterpiece, and one of my all-time favorite films. It's about a young girl named Chihiro who gets lost in the spirit world in an abandoned Japanese theme park. And she finds her way back out again with the help of a couple of friends she makes — a captured dragon named Haku and a lonely demon named No-Face. No-Face is lonely and he wants to make friends, and he thinks the way to do it is by luring them to him and producing gold in his hand. But this doesn't go very well, and so he ends up going on kind of a rampage until Chihiro saves him, rescues him. So I put together a No-Face costume, and I wore it on the floor at Comic-Con. And I very carefully practiced No-Face's gestures. I resolved I would not speak in this costume at all. When people asked to take my picture, I would nod and I would shyly stand next to them. They would take the picture and then I would secret out from behind my robe a chocolate gold coin. And at the end of the photo process, I'd make it appear for them. Ah, ah ah! — like that. And people were freaking out. ""Holy crap! Gold from No-Face! Oh my god, this is so cool!"" And I'm feeling and I'm walking the floor and it's fantastic. And about 15 minutes in something happens. Somebody grabs my hand, and they put a coin back into it. And I think maybe they're giving me a coin as a return gift, but no, this is one of the coins that I'd given away. I don't know why. And I keep on going, I take some more pictures. And then it happens again. Understand, I can't see anything inside this costume. I can see through the mouth — I can see people's shoes. I can hear what they're saying and I can see their feet. But the third time someone gives me back a coin, I want to know what's going on. So I sort of tilt my head back to get a better view, and what I see is someone walking away from me going like this. And then it hits me: it's bad luck to take gold from No-Face. In the film ""Spirited Away,"" bad luck befalls those who take gold from No-Face. This isn't a performer-audience relationship; this is cosplay. We are, all of us on that floor, injecting ourselves into a narrative that meant something to us. And we're making it our own. We're connecting with something important inside of us. And the costumes are how we reveal ourselves to each other. Thank you. (Applause)"	這是一個我曾經在某個地方讀到過，並且很喜歡的事實：給人類帶來成功的因素之一，做為一個物種，是我們缺少體毛 －我們沒有足夠的毛髮，我們的赤裸與衣服的發明相結合，給予我們可以調節體溫的能力，以及我們因而能在我們所選擇的任何氣候下生存的能力。現在我們已經進化到沒有衣服就不能生存的程度。衣服不僅僅具有實用性，現在它也是一種溝通方式。我們選擇穿上的每一件衣服都是一段描述，一個故事，關於我們去過哪裡， 我們正在做什麼，我們想要成為什麼人。 我曾經是一個孤獨的小孩。我很難找到和我一起玩的朋友，所以我最後自己做自己玩的東西。我做了很多自己的玩具。它是從冰淇淋開始的。在我的家鄉，有一家巴斯金羅賓斯冰淇淋店。他們在櫃檯後面拿冰淇淋給客人。冰淇淋是放在巨大的五加侖的硬紙板圓筒裡。有人告訴我 － 我八歲的時候 －有人告訴我，當他們用完那些圓筒的時候，他們會把它們洗乾淨，然後放在後面，如果你向他們要的話，他們會給你一個。我用了幾個星期才鼓起勇氣，但是我還是提出了請求，他們也答應了。他們給了我一個 － 我帶著這個漂亮的硬紙板圓筒回家了。我試著弄清楚我可以用這個誘人的材料做些什麼 －金屬圈，在紙筒上方和下方。我開始把它放在我的頭上我意識到：「等一下 －我的頭剛好可以放在這個東西裡面。」 （笑聲） 就這樣，我剪出一個洞，我在那裡放了一些醋酸纖維然後我給自己做了一個太空頭盔。 （笑聲） 我需要一個可以戴太空頭盔的地方，然後我在距離我家幾個街區遠的地方找到了一個裝冰箱的紙箱。我把它推回家，推進我父母客房的衣櫃裡，我把那裡變成了一個太空船。我從一個由硬紙板做成的控制板開始。我剪了一個洞，用來做雷達屏幕並且把一個手電筒放在下面來照亮它。我創建了一個視野屏幕我把它靠在後面的牆上 －然後，這是我認為我很聰明的地方 －在沒有得到允許的情況下，我把衣櫃的後牆塗成了黑色，並放上一片星空，我用在閣樓裡找到的一些聖誕節的彩燈點亮了那片星空，然後我開始執行一些太空任務。 幾年以後，電影《大白鯊》上映了。我那時太小了，不能去看那部電影，但是我沈浸在對《大白鯊》的痴迷中，就像那時其他的美國人一樣。在我住的市鎮裡，有一家商店，在櫥窗上掛著《大白鯊》的戲服，而且我的媽媽一定是無意中聽到我對其他人說我覺得那套戲服有多棒，因為在萬聖節的前幾天，她送給我那套《大白鯊》的戲服讓我很驚喜。 我意識到這聽起來會很像某個年紀的人們，抱怨現在的小孩不知道他們的生活有多優渥。但是讓我給你們舉一個隨機的事例關於現在你可以在網上買到的小孩子的入門級的戲服 ......然後這是我媽媽那時買給我的《大白鯊》的戲服。 （笑聲） 這是一個像紙一樣薄的鯊魚臉和一個上面有《大白鯊》海報的塑料圍兜。 （笑聲） 我很喜歡它。 幾年以後，我爸爸帶我去看一部叫《黑暗時代》的電影。實際上，我讓他帶我去看了兩次，那不是一件小事，因為那是一部 R 級電影。但是並不是那些鮮血、內臟或者是乳房讓我想要再去看一次那部電影。它們是有點幫助 － （笑聲） 是那副盔甲。《黑暗時代》裡的盔甲對我來說有一種令人癡迷的美。這些真的是穿著像鏡面一樣反光的盔甲的騎士。此外，《黑暗時代》裡的騎士在任何地方都穿著他們的盔甲。他們隨時穿著 － 他們穿著盔甲吃飯，他們穿著盔甲睡覺。 （笑聲） 我就在想，「他們和我靈犀相通嗎？我想一直都穿著盔甲！」 （笑聲） 所以我又回去找我最喜歡的材料，製作東西的入門迷藥，褶皺的硬紙板，然後我給自己做了一套盔甲，還配了一副頸部護盾和一匹白馬。既然我已經吹噓了我的盔甲，這裡有一張我做的盔甲的圖片。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 這只是我做的第一套盔甲受到《黑暗時代》鼓舞（而做的）。幾年以後，我說服了我爸爸為我做一套正式的盔甲。在大概一個月的時間裡，他讓我從使用硬紙板的階段進入到使用做屋頂的鋁製材料，和至今仍然是我最喜歡的輔助材料之一，波普空心铆釘。我們小心地，在那一個月裡，製作了一套拼接而成的鋁製盔甲，帶有重疊的彎曲部分。我們在頭盔上鑽了小孔，以便我可以呼吸，而且我剛好在萬聖節前及時完成，並穿著它去學校。嗯，它是這場演講中唯一的一件東西我沒有幻燈片可以展示給你們，因為這套盔甲沒有照片。我的確把它穿去了學校，那時有一個學校年刊的攝影師，一直在走廊裡來回走，但是他從沒看見我，等一下你就會知道原因。 我那時並沒有預計到穿著一套完整的鋁盔甲去學校會發生的事。在第三堂的數學課，我站在教室的後面，我站在教室的後面，因為那套盔甲我無法坐下。 （笑聲） 這是我沒有預計到的第一件事。然後我的老師有些關心地看著我，大概在數學課上到一半的時候，她說：「你覺得還好嗎？」我心裡想，「你在開玩笑嗎？你問我我感覺好嗎？我正穿著一套盔甲！我正在享受我一生最...」我正要告訴她我感覺有多棒，這時教室開始向左傾斜並且它在這個長長的隧道後面消失了。然後我在護理室裡醒來。我因為熱衰竭而昏倒，穿著那套盔甲。當我醒來的時候，我沒有因為在同學面前昏倒而尷尬，我那時在想，「誰拿走了我的盔甲？我的盔甲在哪裡？」 好，讓我們快進到許多年以後，我和一些同事受僱為‘探索頻道’製作一個節目，叫做‘神秘小子’。在十四年裡，我在工作中學會如何做實驗方法以及如何在電視節目中講述關於它們的故事。我也很早學會穿戲服做角色扮演在講故事的過程中可以起到關鍵的作用。我用戲服在講述故事時，加上幽默性、滑稽性、生動性，以及敘述的清晰性。然後我們做了一集節目，叫作‘垃圾桶探索’，我學到了更多的關於戲服角色扮演對我意味著什麼，更深層次的意義。在那集‘垃圾桶探索’中，我們嘗試回答的問題是：跳進一個垃圾桶是像電影讓你相信的那樣安全嗎？ （笑聲） 這一集有兩個不同的部分。一部分是當我們接受特技替身演員的訓練，從樓上跳下來，落到一個安全氣囊上。第二部分是這個實驗的升級版。我們會把一個垃圾桶填滿廢料，然後我們跳進去。我想從視覺上分開這兩個部分，然後我想，「嗯，第一部分的時候，我們在接受訓練，所以我們應該穿運動裝 －哦！讓我們在運動裝後面寫上‘特技表演受訓員‘。那是為了訓練用的。」但是在第二部分中，我想要一些有視覺震撼的東西 －「我知道了！我將要打扮成《黑客帝國》中的 Neo。」 （笑聲） 所以我去了嬉皮街。我買了漂亮的到膝蓋的帶的靴子。我在 eBay 找到了一件飄逸的長外套。我戴了太陽鏡，我必須戴隱形眼鏡才能戴它。做實驗的那天到了，我穿著這套戲服走出了我的車，我的同事們看了我一眼...然後開始抑制他們咯咯的笑聲。他們就像這樣，（壓抑大笑的聲音）。我在這時感受到兩件不同的事情，我感到非常尷尬因為這樣的事實： 我的同事太清楚我完全沈迷於穿著這套戲服。 （笑聲） 但是我心中的製片人提醒我自己不管是快速鏡頭，或是慢動作，飄逸的長外套在我身後會看起來很漂亮。 （笑聲） ‘神秘小子’播出的第五年，我們收到邀請出席聖地牙哥的動漫展。我知道動漫展已經很多年了，只是一直沒有時間去。這是個大聯盟 － 這是戲服角色扮演的麥加。人們從世界各地坐飛機過來，在聖地牙哥的展台上展示他們令人驚異的創作。我想參與其中。我決定我要做一套精緻的戲服能完全遮住我身體的，然後我將匿名走上聖地亞哥動漫展的展台。我選擇的戲服？地獄男爵。那不是我的戲服，那是真的地獄男爵。 （笑聲） 但是我用了幾個月的時間組裝了一套我能做到的和影片最貼近的《地獄男爵》的戲服，從靴子，到腰帶，到褲子到那隻毀滅一切的右手。我找到一個可以製作地獄男爵假頭和假胸膛的人。然後我把它們戴上。我甚至訂做了符合我眼睛度數的隱形眼鏡。我戴著它走上了動漫展的展台我甚至無法告訴你們穿著那套戲服有多熱。 （笑聲） 汗流浹背！我應該記得這個場景。我汗如雨下，而且我的隱形眼鏡傷到了我的眼睛，但是什麼都不重要因為我完全沈浸在其中。 （笑聲） 我不僅僅是愛上穿上這套戲服然後走上展台的過程，我還愛上其他角色扮演者組成的群組。它不叫 動漫展上的戲服展示，它叫做‘戲服角色扮演’。表面上，戲服角色扮演是指人們裝扮成他們在電影和電視中最喜愛的角色，尤其是動漫。但是戲服角色扮演遠不止這些。這些人不只是找到一套戲服然後把它穿上 －他們把戲服混在一起。他們根據他們的想法改變戲服。他們把戲服變成他們想要成為的那些劇本中的角色。他們很聰明並且很天才。他們讓怪異的旗幟飛起來，真的很漂亮。 （笑聲） 不僅僅是那樣，他們穿著戲服排練。在動漫展或者其它展覽中，你不僅僅是給到處走的人拍照。你會走上前，然後說，‘嘿，我喜歡你的戲服，我可以照張像片嗎？然後你給他們時間讓他們擺姿勢。他們在很努力的擺姿勢，讓他們的戲服在你的相機上看起來很棒。看起來真的很棒。我對這些銘記於心。在以後的展覽中，我學會希斯萊傑在《黑暗騎士》中扮演的 Joker 的蹣跚步。我學會如何扮演《魔戒》中可怕的戒靈，而且我真的嚇到了一些孩子。我學會了那種‘呵 呵 呵’的聲音 －那種喬巴卡發出的狂笑。 然後我裝扮成《千與千尋》中的無面人。如果你不知道《千與千尋》和它的導演宮崎駿，首先，不用謝。 （笑聲） 這是一部傑作，我一直最喜歡的電影之一。它是講述了一個叫千尋的小女孩在靈界迷路了，在日本一個廢棄的主題公園裡。然後她又重新找到了回去的路，在她新結交的幾個朋友的幫助下 －一條叫作 Haku 的被捕獲的龍和一隻孤獨的叫作無面的幽靈。無面人很孤單，他想要交朋友，他認為交朋友的方式就是把他們誘惑到他的身邊然後在他手中製造出金子。但是這個方法不是很有效。然後他開始表現出狂暴行為，直到千尋挽救了他，解救了他。 就這樣，我製作了一套無面人的戲服，然後穿著它去了動漫展的展台。而且我非常認真地練習著無面人的動作。我決心我在穿著這套戲服時完全不說話。當人們要求給我照相的時候，我可以點頭然後我會害羞地站在他們旁邊。他們就會照相，然後我會悄悄地從我的長衣後面拿出一塊巧克力金幣，在照相過程結束後，我會讓巧克力金幣出現在他們面前。啊，啊，啊！－ 就像那樣。 然後人們會發瘋似的大叫。“太神奇了！無面人的金幣！天哪，這太酷了！”此時我感受著這種氣氛，走來走去，那種感覺太棒了。大概過了十五分鐘，有件事發生了。有人抓住我的手，然後把一枚硬幣放在我的手裡。我想他們也許是給我一枚硬幣作為回禮，但是，不是這樣，那是我給出去的硬幣中的一個。我不知道為什麼。然後我繼續走，我照了更多的照片。然後事情又一次發生了。要知道，我在戲服裡面什麼也看不見。我能通過戲服嘴的部位看見 －我能看見人們的鞋子。我能聽見他們正在說什麼，而且我能看見他們的腳。但是當第三次有人把金幣還給我的時候，我想知道發生了什麼。所以我把我的頭稍微向後傾斜一點以便能看得更清楚，然後我看到的是有個人像這樣從我這裡走開了。然後我突然想到：從無面人那裡拿金幣是壞運氣。在《千與千尋》的電影裡，壞運氣跟著那些從無面人那裡拿走金幣的人。 這不是一種表演者和觀眾的關係；這是角色扮演。我們，所有在那個展台上的人，都把我們自己放到一個對我們有意義的故事中。然後我們把那個故事變成我們自己的。我們在和我們內心深處一些重要的東西進行交流。這些戲服就是我們藉以把我們自己展示給彼此的方式。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
