Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_grosser_and_his_sustainable_fridge	This is a work in process, based on some comments that were made at TED two years ago about the need for the storage of vaccine. (Video): [On this planet 1.6 billion people don't have access to electricity refrigeration or stored fuels this is a problem it impacts: the spread of disease the storage of food and medicine and the quality of life. So here's the plan ... inexpensive refrigeration that doesn't use electricity, propane, gas, kerosene or consumables time for some thermodynamics And the story of the Intermittent Absorption Refrigerator] Adam Grosser: So 29 years ago, I had this thermo teacher who talked about absorption and refrigeration, one of those things that stuck in my head, a lot like the Stirling engine: it was cool, but you didn't know what to do with it. It was invented in 1858, by this guy Ferdinand Carré, but he couldn't actually build anything with it because of the tools at the time. This crazy Canadian named Powel Crosley commercialized this thing called the IcyBall, in 1928. It was a really neat idea, and I'll get to why it didn't work, but here's how it works. There's two spheres and they're separated in distance. One has a working fluid, water and ammonia, and the other is a condenser. You heat up one side, the hot side. The ammonia evaporates and it recondenses in the other side. You let it cool to room temperature, and then, as the ammonia reevaporates and combines with the water back on the erstwhile hot side, it creates a powerful cooling effect. So it was a great idea that didn't work at all. They blew up. (Laughter) Because you're using ammonia, you get hugely high pressures if you heated them wrong; it topped 400 psi. The ammonia was toxic, it sprayed everywhere. But it was kind of an interesting thought. So the great thing about 2006, there's a lot of really great computational work you can do. So we got the whole thermodynamics department at Stanford involved — a lot of computational fluid dynamics. We proved that most of the ammonia refrigeration tables are wrong. We found some nontoxic refrigerants that worked at very low vapor pressures. We brought in a team from the UK — a lot of great refrigeration people, it turns out, in the UK — and built a test rig, and proved that, in fact, we could make a low-pressure, nontoxic refrigerator. So this is the way it works. You put it on a cooking fire. Most people have cooking fires in the world, whether it's camel dung or wood. It heats up for about 30 minutes, cools for an hour. You put it into a container and it will refrigerate for 24 hours. It looks like this. This is the fifth prototype, it's not quite done. It weighs about eight pounds, and this is the way it works. You put it into a 15-liter vessel, about three gallons, and it'll cool it down to just above freezing — three degrees above freezing — for 24 hours in a 30 degree C environment. It's really cheap. We think we can build these in high volumes for about 25 dollars, in low volumes for about 40 dollars. And we think we can make refrigeration something that everybody can have. Thank you. (Applause)	這項還在進行中的工作是基於兩年前在 TED 得到的一些有關疫苗儲藏問題的寶貴意見。（音樂）（影片）旁白：地球上有16億人口過著沒有電、無法冷藏或儲存燃料的生活。這是一個問題。這個問題造成的影響包括：疾病的散佈、食物和藥物的儲藏，還有生活品質。我們的計畫是設計一個毋需電力、丙烷、汽油、煤油或消耗任何能源的平價冷藏技術。現在來說一些有關熱力學和間接性吸收冷凍機的故事。 在 29 年以前，我遇到一位熱能學老師，他講過一些關於吸收作用和製冷的相關知識。這是少數幾件，我一直詺記於心的事情之一。它就好像斯特林發動機，它很酷，但是你不知道它能用在甚麼地方。Ferdinand Carre 於 1858 年發明了它，但是他沒辦法利用它，製造出甚麼東西出來，因為當時沒有適當的工具。 後來有個叫 Powell Crosley 的瘋狂加拿大人在 1928 年將這個東西商品化，命名為 Icyball，這是個絕妙的想法，我會告訴大家為甚麼它沒有成功，但讓我先講解一下其運作原理。這裡有兩個半球體，中間有一定的距離。一個裝有工作介質，含水和氨，另一個是冷凝器。當你將一側加熱時，熱的這一側，氨開始蒸發然後它會在另一側重新凝結。你讓它降到室溫，之後，當氨重新蒸發時會與水結合回到先前熱的那一側，它會產生很強大的冷卻效果。這個想法雖然很好，但是不可行：它會炸掉。因為如果你的加熱不當氨會產生很大的壓力。壓力會超過每平方英吋 400 磅，有毒的氨會四處飛濺。但這個想法很有趣。 到了 2006 年事情有了進展我們現在可以用電腦來做計算研究。我們得到史丹佛大學熱動力學系全員的參與，利用電腦作出大量與流體力學相關的模擬運算。我們證明了大部分關於氨冷卻的數據是錯的。我們發現了一些無毒的冷媒能於極低蒸汽壓下運作。這是從英國小組那裡帶來的，他們有很多優秀的冷凍學人才，最後在英國，我們建立了一個試驗平台，證明了我們可以造出低壓力、無毒的冰箱。 以下是它的運作原理。你可以在爐灶上加熱它。全世界大部分的人都擁有爐灶，無論燃料是駱駝糞便或木材。將其加熱 30 分鐘，之後冷卻一個小時。把它放入一個容器中它就可以保持冷卻 24 個小時。它看上去是這樣的。這是第五代原型樣品，還不是太完美。重大約 8 磅，它是這樣用的。把它放入一個 15 公升的容器中，大約三加侖，它就可以冷卻到接近零度，大約是高於冰點 3 度，並可以在攝氏 30 度的環境下保持 24 小時，而且它很便宜。我認為如果我們大量製造，成本可以壓低到約 25 美元。小量的成本大約 40 美元。因此，我們認為我們可以讓冰箱變成任何人都能擁有的冰箱。 謝謝(掌聲)
