Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_sadowsky_engineers_a_viral_music_video	"Hi there. I'm going to be talking a little bit about music, machines and life. Or, more specifically, what we learned from the creation of a very large and complicated machine for a music video. Some of you may recognize this image. This is the opening frame of the video that we created. We'll be showing the video at the end, but before we do, I want to talk a little bit about what it is that they wanted. Now, when we first started talking to OK Go — the name of the song is ""This Too Shall Pass"" — we were really excited because they expressed interest in building a machine that they could dance with. And we were very excited about this because, of course, they have a history of dancing with machines. They're responsible for this video, ""Here It Goes Again."" 50-million-plus views on YouTube. Four guys dancing on treadmills, no cuts, just a static camera. A fantastically viral and wonderful video. So we were really excited about working with them. And we sort of started talking about what it is that they wanted. And they explained that they wanted kind of a Rube Goldberg machine. Now, for those of you who don't know, a Rube Goldberg machine is a complicated contraption, an incredibly over-engineered piece of machinery that accomplishes a relatively simple task. So we were excited by this idea, and we started talking about exactly what it would look like. And we came up with some parameters, because, you know, building a Rube Goldberg machine has limitations, but it also is pretty wide open. And we wanted to make sure that we did something that would work for a music video. So we came up with a list of requirements, the ""10 commandments,"" and they were, in order of ascending difficulty: The first is ""No magic."" Everything that happened on screen had to be very easily understood by a typical viewer. The rule of thumb was that, if my mother couldn't understand it, then we couldn't use it in the video. They wanted band integration, that is, the machine acting upon the band members, specifically not the other way around. They wanted the machine action to follow the song feeling. So as the song picks up emotion, so should the machine get grander in its process. They wanted us to make use of the space. So we have this 10,000-square-foot warehouse we were using, divided between two floors. It included an exterior loading dock. We used all of that, including a giant hole in the floor that we actually descended the camera and cameraman through. They wanted it messy, and we were happy to oblige. The machine itself would start the music. So the machine would get started, it would travel some distance, reacting along the way, hit play on an iPod or a tape deck or something that would start playback. And the machine would maintain synchronization throughout. And speaking of synchronization, they wanted it to sync to the rhythm and to hit specific beats along the way. Okay. (Laughter) They wanted it to end precisely on time. Okay, so now the start to finish timing has to be perfect. And they wanted the music to drop out at a certain point in the video and actual live audio from the machine to play part of the song. And as if that wasn't enough, all of these incredibly complicating things, right, they wanted it in one shot. (Laughter) (Applause) Okay. So, just some statistics about what we went through in the process. The machine itself has 89 distinct interactions. It took us 85 takes to get it on film to our satisfaction. Of those 85 takes, only three actually successfully completed their run. We destroyed two pianos and 10 televisions in the process. We went to Home Depot well over a hundred times. (Laughter) And we lost one high-heeled shoe when one of our engineers, Heather Knight, left her high-heeled shoe — after a nice dinner, and returned back to the build — and left it in a pile of stuff. And another engineer thought, ""Well, that would be a really good thing to use"" and ended up using it as a really nice trigger. And it's actually in the machine. So what did we learn from all of this? Well, having completed this, we have the opportunity to step back and reflect on some of the things. And we learned that small stuff stinks. Little balls in wooden tracks are really susceptible to humidity and temperature and a little bit of dust, and they fall out of the tracks, the exact angles makes it hard to get right. And yet, a bowling ball will always follow the same path. It doesn't matter what temperature it is, doesn't matter what's in its way; it will pretty much get where it needs to go. But as much as the small stuff stinks, we needed somewhere to start, so that we would have somewhere to go. And so you have to start with it. You have to focus on it. Small stuff stinks, but, of course, it's essential, right? What else? Planning is incredibly important. (Laughter) You know, we spent a lot of time ideating and even building some of these things. It's been said that, ""No battle plan survives contact with the enemy."" I think our enemy was physics — (Laughter) and she's a cruel mistress. Often, we had to pull things out as a result because of timing or aesthetics or whatever. And so while planning is important, so is flexibility. These are all things that ended up not making it into the final machine. So also, put reliable stuff last, the stuff that's going to run every time. Again, small to large is relevant here. The little Lego car in the beginning of the video references the big, real car near the end of the video. The big, real car works every time; there's no problem about it. The little one had a tendency to try to run off the track and that's a problem. But you don't want to have to reset the whole machine because the Lego car at the end doesn't work, right. So you put that up front so that, if it fails, at least you know you don't have to reset the whole thing. Life can be messy. There were incredibly difficult moments in the building of this thing. Months were spent in this tiny, cold warehouse. And the wonderful elation that we had when we finally completed it. So it's important to remember that whether it's good or it's bad, ""This Too Shall Pass."" Thank you very much. (Applause) And now to introduce their music video, we have OK Go. OK Go: An introduction. Hello TEDxUSC. We are OK Go. What are we doing? Oh, just hanging out with our Grammy. What what! It think we can do better than this. Hello TEDxUSC. We are OK Go. Have you read the ""Natural Curiosity Cabinet?"" I mean, ""Curiosity"" — excuse me. Let me start again. We need some more ridiculous things besides ""The Cabinet of Natural Curiosities."" Tim's sundial hat. Have you seen the new work they've done to the Waltz Towers? Sorry, start again. (Barking) Dogs. Hello, TEDxUSC. We are OK Go, and this our new video, ""This Too Shall Pass."" [unclear] Kay, we can still do one better I think, yeah. That one's pretty good. It's getting better. (Music) ♫ You know you can't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ And you can't keep dragging that dead weight around ♫ ♫ If there ain't all that much to lug around ♫ ♫ Better run like hell when you hit the ground ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ You can't stop these kids from dancing ♫ ♫ Why would you want to? ♫ ♫ Especially when you're already getting yours ♫ ♫ Cuz if your mind don't move and your knees don't bend ♫ ♫ Well don't go blaming the kids again ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ You know you can't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ No, you can't keep letting it get you down ♫ ♫ Let it go ♫ ♫ This too shall pass ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ ♫ When the morning comes ♫ (Cheering)"	"大家好等一下我要跟各位聊聊有關音樂、機械、和生活或者更具體地說我們能從一個為了拍MV而做的龐大、複雜的機器中學到些什麼可能有些人看過這照片中的場景這是我們設計的音樂錄影帶的開頭演講最後我們會播放這卷音樂錄影帶在此之前，我想告訴各位他們對這影片的訴求 當我們開始和OK Go這樂團討論他們的作品""一切終將過去""時我們覺得非常興奮，因為他們想要一個能與人共舞的機械裝置另一個讓我們感到興奮的那是因為他們過去有類似的豐富經驗他們自製的音樂錄影帶""我們又來了!""在Youtube上超過5千萬的瀏覽次數4個大男人在跑步機上跳舞沒有剪接，只用一台固定的攝影機拍攝這影片不但在網路上快速傳播而且非常完美所以我們真的很高興有機會跟他們合作我們一開始在初步討論時他們就指出他們想要一個""魯布-戈德堡機械裝置"" 現場可能有人不知道這是什麼魯布-戈德堡機械裝置它的構造非常複雜並且用極端缺乏效率的運作過程去完成一件極簡單的事情我們對這個構想非常感興趣於是我們開始著手並與他們討論詳細內容我們想出一些裝置在設計上的主要條件你們要瞭解，搭建魯布-戈德堡機械裝置有些限制但它同時也是很開放的 而我們希望我們所作的成果能夠完整呈現在音樂錄影帶裡面所以我們將這些條件條列化稱為""10誡""依照執行難度依序告訴各位第一，不用複雜取巧的戲法影片內容要親民任何觀眾都要能看的懂簡單來說，若有我老媽感到困惑的部份這部份就不能出現在影片中第二，要融入樂團成員機器的運作過程能讓樂團成員參與其中不能只有機器在表演第三，機器的運作要配合音樂的節奏與情緒如果音樂來到情緒表現比較強的部份那麼機器呈現的運作過程就必須比較華麗、壯觀第四，要利用廣大的空間所以我們找了一個上下二層合計1萬平方英呎的大倉庫倉庫有一個裝卸貨物的月台我們利用倉庫裡的所有東西，包括地板上的大坑洞讓我們的攝影機和工作人員能順利拍攝第五，要看起來很凌亂，這我們很願意效勞第六，裝置可以啟動音樂當裝置啟動時它要能跑來跑去並在這過程中不斷啟動各種開關然後啟動iPod或錄音帶的播放或是一些錄音裝置裝置要能與音樂同步化他們要求的同步化不但裝置運作要跟著音樂的節拍走還要能配合特定的節拍點........好吧要能在精準的時間內結束好吧，所以裝置的啟動到結束要非常精準然後在影片中的特定時刻必須要把音樂停止播放沒有音樂的這個時段要用機器的運作來發出聲音這些還不夠拍攝這支影片還要一鏡到底不剪接 (笑) (掌聲) 好吧那麼，針對這個裝置我們做了一些統計它擁有89個不同的互動裝置我們前前後後拍了85次確保有達到我們想要的成果在這85次的拍攝中只有3次成功的把所有機關都啟動拍攝過程中我們共砸了2台鋼琴還有10台電視機我們逛了100多次的家得寶 (註:美國家庭飾品與建材的零售商)(笑)有人還弄丟了一支高跟鞋某天，我們的工程師海瑟奈特在浪漫的燭光晚餐後她回到倉庫工作然後把高跟鞋跟一些道具放在一起另一位工程師看到了，覺得""嗯，這應該可以好好利用""最後這鞋子也真的成為一個很棒的機關它就是這樣不見的 講半天，我們到底學到什麼?基本上，是在完成之後我們才有機會回頭來審視到底得到了些什麼我們深刻體會到""魔鬼就在細節裡""我們在木版上刻溝槽想讓小鋼珠能順著溝槽前進，但順利與否要取決於濕度、溫度、有沒有灰塵沒顧好這些細節就很難控制小珠子軌道角度一點點不對就會影響球的走向如果用的是保齡球就不會有這樣的困擾不用管啥溫度還是什麼也不用太關心它的行經路線因為它本身的重量體積能幫助它順利前進越小的東西需要越多的注意力，我們需要正確的基本態度以便我們能前往共同一致的目標任何人都應該了解這一點，不管做任何事都一樣魔鬼就在細節裡但細節是最重要的 還學到什麼?大家都知道事前規劃超級重要(該死的平面配置圖)你們要瞭解，概念發想到機械建構 (施壓點) (某東西踢倒書)花了我們不少時間古人有云：任何作戰計畫，跟敵人交鋒後都是廢紙一張我們的敵人就是物理學(最後的書打到槓桿) (假手啟動iPod)它是個難搞的傢伙常常我們需要改變計畫 (啟動低音喇叭 震波啟動坡道上的球)因為時間有限、美感訴求、還有種種因素事前規劃很重要，也要有彈性地做變化要順利完成這台裝置必須要取捨一些東西我們會把失敗率較低的機關設在後面這些機關總是能順利啟動，不需費心小道具跟大道具的機關設置也是一樣出現在片頭的樂高玩具車和片尾的實體車互相呼應這台實體車做的機關每次操作總是很穩定樂高小車卻很容易偏離軌道這是個問題你不想要因為這台玩具車在最後沒有啟動導致整個過程重來所以我們決定把小車機關放在前面就算這機關沒啟動你至少知道不需要重新設置全部機關 人生可能是混亂的為了打造這台裝置我們經歷了許多難以想像的艱苦時刻好幾個月耗在又小又冷的倉庫裡而到了最後我們享受嚐到了甜美的成果請記住，不管人生中發生了怎樣的喜事，或是壞事""這一切終將過去"" 感謝各位 (掌聲)現在跟各位介紹 由OK Go帶來的這支音樂錄影帶 輪到我們自我介紹了。哈囉，TEDxUSC論壇的各位我們是OK Go現在要幹麼?跟大家分享葛來美得獎心得吧。啥???這次要正經一點啦。哈囉，TEDxUSC論壇的各位我們是OK Go.你們有看過自藍奇珍這本書嗎?對不起，是自""然""奇珍 (18世紀植物手繪本)重來一次我們從《自然奇珍》這本書看到很多超酷炫的東西提姆的日晷帽你們有沒有看過Waltz Towers的最新作品?抱歉，再重來一次(汪汪)....有狗來亂哈囉，TEDxUSC論壇的各位，我們是OK Go很高興跟各位分享我們的新MV""一切終將過去""[不清晰]凱，我覺得我們可以再錄一次這次真的不錯，有進步了 (前奏) ♫你知道終要放下讓人煩心的事情♫ ♫身邊的累贅也該甩掉♫ ♫若沒有太多事情拖累你♫ ♫你跌倒的時候就應該要快點站起來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫你不該阻止孩子們的夢想♫ ♫你為何會想這麼做?♫ ♫ 尤其是你已經得到你想要的了♫ ♫若因為是你還沒拋棄陳舊觀念和做好準備♫ ♫就別再牽拖到孩子身上了♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫放開手♫ ♫一切終將過去♫ ♫放開手♫ ♫一切終將過去♫ ♫你知道終要放下讓人煩心的事情♫ ♫沒錯，甩掉身邊的累贅吧♫ ♫讓它去吧♫ ♫一切終將過去♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ ♫黎明終會到來♫ (歡呼)"
