Talk	en	zh-tw
adam_de_la_zerda_how_we_can_start_winning_the_war_against_cancer	"""We're declaring war against cancer, and we will win this war by 2015."" This is what the US Congress and the National Cancer Institute declared just a few years ago, in 2003. Now, I don't know about you, but I don't buy that. I don't think we quite won this war yet, and I don't think anyone here will question that. Now, I will argue that a primary reason why we're not winning this war against cancer is because we're fighting blindly. I'm going to start by sharing with you a story about a good friend of mine. His name is Ehud, and a few years ago, Ehud was diagnosed with brain cancer. And not just any type of brain cancer: he was diagnosed with one of the most deadly forms of brain cancer. In fact, it was so deadly that the doctors told him that they only have 12 months, and during those 12 months, they have to find a treatment. They have to find a cure, and if they cannot find a cure, he will die. Now, the good news, they said, is that there are tons of different treatments to choose from, but the bad news is that in order for them to tell if a treatment is even working or not, well, that takes them about three months or so. So they cannot try that many things. Well, Ehud is now going into his first treatment, and during that first treatment, just a few days into that treatment, I'm meeting with him, and he tells me, ""Adam, I think this is working. I think we really lucked out here. Something is happening."" And I ask him, ""Really? How do you know that, Ehud?"" And he says, ""Well, I feel so terrible inside. Something's gotta be working up there. It just has to."" Well, unfortunately, three months later, we got the news, it didn't work. And so Ehud goes into his second treatment. And again, the same story. ""It feels so bad, something's gotta be working there."" And then three months later, again we get bad news. Ehud is going into his third treatment, and then his fourth treatment. And then, as predicted, Ehud dies. Now, when someone really close to you is going through such a huge struggle, you get really swamped with emotions. A lot of things are going through your head. For me, it was mostly outrage. I was just outraged that, how come this is the best that we can offer? And I started looking more and more into this. As it turns out, this is not just the best that doctors could offer Ehud. It's not just the best doctors could offer patients with brain cancer generally. We're actually not doing that well all across the board with cancer. I picked up one of those statistics, and I'm sure some of you have seen those statistics before. This is going to show you here how many patients actually died of cancer, in this case females in the United States, ever since the 1930s. You'll notice that there aren't that many things that have changed. It's still a huge issue. You'll see a few changes, though. You'll see lung cancer, for example, on the rise. Thank you, cigarettes. And you'll also see that, for example, stomach cancer once used to be one of the biggest killers of all cancers, is essentially eliminated. Now, why is that? Anyone knows, by the way? Why is it that humanity is no longer struck by stomach cancer? What was the huge, huge medical technology breakthrough that came to our world that saved humanity from stomach cancer? Was it maybe a new drug, or a better diagnostic? You guys are right, yeah. It's the invention of the refrigerator, and the fact that we're no longer eating spoiled meats. So the best thing that happened to us so far in the medical arena in cancer research is the fact that the refrigerator was invented. (Laughter) And so — yeah, I know. We're not doing so well here. I don't want to miniaturize the progress and everything that's been done in cancer research. Look, there is like 50-plus years of good cancer research that discovered major, major things that taught us about cancer. But all that said, we have a lot of heavy lifting to still do ahead of us. Again, I will argue that the primary reason why this is the case, why we have not done that remarkably well, is really we're fighting blindly here. And this is where medical imaging comes in. This is where my own work comes in. And so to give you a sense of the best medical imaging that's offered today to brain cancer patients, or actually generally to all cancer patients, take a look at this PET scan right here. Let's see. There we go. So this is a PET/CT scan, and what you'll see in this PET/CT scan is the CT scan will show you where the bones are, and the PET scan will show you where tumors are. Now, what you can see here is essentially a sugar molecule that was added a small little tag that is signaling to us outside of the body, ""Hey, I'm here."" And those sugar molecules are injected into these patients by the billions, and they're going all over the body looking for cells that are hungry for sugar. You'll see that the heart, for example, lights up there. That's because the heart needs a lot of sugar. You'll also see that the bladder lights up there. That's because the bladder is the thing that's clearing the sugar away from our body. And then you'll see a few other hot spots, and these are in fact the tumors. Now, this is a really a wonderful technology. For the first time it allowed us to look into someone's body without picking up each and every one of the cells and putting them under the microscope, but in a noninvasive way allowing us to look into someone's body and ask, ""Hey, has the cancer metastasized? Where is it?"" And the PET scans here are showing you very clearly where are these hot spots, where is the tumor. So as miraculous as this might seem, unfortunately, well, it's not that great. You see, those small little hot spots there. Can anyone guess how many cancer cells are in any one of these tumors? So it's about 100 million cancer cells, and let me make sure that this number sunk in. In each and every one of these small little blips that you're seeing on the image, there needs to be at least 100 million cancer cells in order for it to be detected. Now, if that seemed to you like a very large number, it is a very large number. This is in fact an incredibly large number, because what we really need in order to pick up something early enough to do something about it, to do something meaningful about it, well, we need to pick up tumors that are a thousand cells in size, and ideally just a handful of cells in size. So we're clearly pretty far away from this. So we're going to play a little experiment here. I'm going to ask each of you to now play and imagine that you are brain surgeons. And you guys are now at an operating room, and there's a patient in front of you, and your task is to make sure that the tumor is out. So you're looking down at the patient, the skin and the skull have already been removed, so you're looking at the brain. And all you know about this patient is that there's a tumor about the size of a golf ball or so in the right frontal lobe of this person's brain. And that's more or less it. So you're looking down, and unfortunately everything looks the same, because brain cancer tissue and healthy brain tissue really just look the same. And so you're going in with your thumb, and you start to press a little bit on the brain, because tumors tend to be a little harder, stiffer, and so you go in and go a little bit like this and say, ""It seems like the tumor is right there."" Then you take out your knife and start cutting the tumor piece by piece by piece. And as you're taking the tumor out, then you're getting to a stage where you think, ""Alright, I'm done. I took out everything."" And at this stage, if that's — so far everything sounded, like, pretty crazy — you're now about to face the most challenging decision of your life here. Because now you need to decide, should I stop here and let this patient go, risking that there might be some leftover cancer cells behind that I just couldn't see, or should I take away some extra margins, typically about an inch or so around the tumor just to be sure that I removed everything? So this is not a simple decision to make, and unfortunately this is the decision that brain cancer surgeons have to take every single day as they're seeing their patients. And so I remember talking to a few friends of mine in the lab, and we say, ""Boy, there's got to be a better way."" But not just like you tell a friend that there's got to be a better way. There's just got to be a better way here. This is just incredible. And so we looked back. Remember those PET scans I told you about, the sugar and so on. We said, hey, how about instead of using sugar molecules, let's maybe take tiny, tiny little particles made of gold, and let's program them with some interesting chemistry around them. Let's program them to look for cancer cells. And then we will inject these gold particles into these patients by the billions again, and we'll have them go all over the body, and just like secret agents, if you will, go and walk by every single cell in our body and knock on the door of that cell, and ask, ""Are you a cancer cell or are you a healthy cell? If you're a healthy cell, we're moving on. If you're a cancer cell, we're sticking in and shining out and telling us, ""Hey, look at me, I'm here."" And they'll do it through some interesting cameras that we developed in the lab. And once we see that, maybe we can guide brain cancer surgeons towards taking only the tumor and leaving the healthy brain alone. And so we've tested that, and boy, this works well. So I'm going to show you an example now. What you're looking at here is an image of a mouse's brain, and we've implanted into this mouse's brain a small little tumor. And so this tumor is now growing in this mouse's brain, and then we've taken a doctor and asked the doctor to please operate on the mouse as if that was a patient, and take out piece by piece out of the tumor. And while he's doing that, we're going to take images to see where the gold particles are. And so we're going to first start by injecting these gold particles into this mouse, and we're going to see right here at the very left there that image at the bottom is the image that shows where the gold particles are. The nice thing is that these gold particles actually made it all the way to the tumor, and then they shine out and tell us, ""Hey, we're here. Here's the tumor."" So now we can see the tumor, but we're not showing this to the doctor yet. We're asking the doctor, now please start cutting away the tumor, and you'll see here the doctor just took the first quadrant of the tumor and you see that first quadrant is now missing. The doctor then took the second quadrant, the third, and now it appears to be everything. And so at this stage, the doctor came back to us and said, ""Alright, I'm done. What do you want me to do? Should I keep things as they are or do you want me to take some extra margins around?"" And then we said, ""Well, hang on."" We told the doctor, ""You've missed those two spots, so rather than taking huge margins around, only take out those tiny little areas. Take them out, and then let's take a look."" And so the doctor took them away, and lo and behold, the cancer is now completely gone. Now, the important thing is that it's not just that the cancer is completely gone from this person's brain, or from this mouse's brain. The most important thing is that we did not have to take huge amounts of healthy brain in the process. And so now we can actually imagine a world where doctors and surgeons, as they take away a tumor, they actually know what to take out, and they no longer have to guess with their thumb. Now, here's why it's extremely important to take those tiny little leftover tumors. Those leftover tumors, even if it's just a handful of cells, they will grow to recur the tumor, for the tumor to come back. In fact, the reason why 80 to 90 percent of those brain cancer surgeries ultimately fail is because of those small little extra margins that were left positive, those small little leftover tumors that were left there. So this is clearly very nice, but what I really want to share with you is where I think we're heading from here. And so in my lab at Stanford, my students and I are asking, what should we be working on now? And I think where medical imaging is heading to is the ability to look into the human body and actually see each and every one of these cells separately. The ability like this would allow us to actually pick up tumors way, way earlier in the process, way before it's 100 million cells inside, so we can actually do something about it. An ability to see each and every one of the cells might also allow us to ask insightful questions. So in the lab, we are now getting to a point where we can actually start asking these cancer cells real questions, like, for example, are you responding to the treatment we are giving you or not? So if you're not responding, we'll know to stop the treatment right away, days into the treatment, not three months. And so also for patients like Ehud that are going through these nasty, nasty chemotherapy drugs, for them not to suffer through those horrendous side effects of the drugs when the drugs are in fact not even helping them. So to be frank here, we're pretty far away from winning the war against cancer, just to be realistic. But at least I am hopeful that we should be able to fight this war with better medical imaging techniques in the way that is not blind. Thank you. (Applause)"	“我們已經和癌癥宣布戰爭了，而且我們能在2015年前贏得這場戰爭。”這是美國國會和國家癌癥協會聲稱的就在幾年前，2003年。現在，我不知道妳，但是我並不相信。我不認我們已經贏得場戰鬥了，而且我不認為在場的人會質疑我。現在我會告訴妳們壹個最基本的原因，為什麽我們不會贏得和癌癥的戰爭，是因為我們盲目地鬥爭。我要給妳們分享壹個我的好朋友的故事。他的名字是埃胡德，幾年前，他被診斷出有腦癌。而且還不是普通的腦癌，他被診斷出患有最致命的腦癌。事實上，這個癌癥致命到醫生告訴他，他只有12個月，而且在這個12個月裏，他們還要找到壹個治療的方法。他們壹定要找到壹個治療方法，而且如果找不到，他將會死亡。現在，好消息是，他們說，有無數種治療方法可以選擇，但是壞消息是，如果要檢測治療是否有效果，好吧，需要大約三個月的時間。所以他們嘗試不了那麽多療程。好吧，埃胡德正在準備進行他的第壹次治療，在第壹次治療開始幾天的時候，我見到他，他告訴我“亞當，我覺得療程有效果。我覺得我們還是挺走運的。事情正在改變。”我問他：“真的嗎，妳是怎麽知道，埃胡德？”他說，“好吧，我感覺身體很難受。壹定有什麽東西在裏面運作，壹定是的。”好吧，不幸的是，三個月後，我們得到消息，療程沒有起效果。所以埃胡德進入第二次治療。事情的發展又和上次壹樣。“我感覺很糟，壹定有什麽東西在裏面運作。”三個月後，我們又接到了壞消息。埃胡德接受了第三次和第四次的治療。正如預測的壹樣，埃胡德去世了。當身邊親近的人飽受巨大的折磨，妳的內心五味雜陳。妳的腦海中充斥著雜亂的事情。對於我來說，這是最大的暴行。我只是憤怒，為什麽這些是我們最大能夠提供的？ 謝謝。然後我開始研究這件事，（鼓掌）結果是，這不僅僅是醫生能夠提供給埃胡德最好的，而且這是醫生能夠提供給所有腦癌病人最好的。我們其實並沒有在解決癌癥上做的很好。我挑選了那些調查數據之壹， ¶我保證妳們中的壹些人曾經看過這些數據。這將要告訴妳多少人真的死於癌癥，多少美國女性，自從20世紀30年代。妳會發現並沒有什麽改變。這依舊是壹個巨大的問題。即使妳能看到壹些改變，妳會發現，比如，肺癌在升高。感謝香煙。而且妳還能看到，比如說，胃癌，曾經癌癥中最大的殺手之壹，已經大大地減少。好，為什麽會這樣？有人知道嗎？為什麽人類不再受胃癌折磨？是哪個巨大的醫療技術突破誕生在世界上，從胃癌中拯救人類？可能是壹種新藥或者是壹種更好的診斷方式？妳們是對的。是冰箱的發明，還有我們不在吃腐爛的食物的事實。所以至今發生最好的事情，在癌癥研究的醫療領域，是冰箱的發明。（笑聲）我知道。我們並沒有做的很好。我不想貶低我們在癌癥研究方面的付出。聽著，有五十多年很有成效的癌癥研究，發現了有關癌癥的重要的東西。但是，盡管這樣，我們還有很多重要的事情需要解決。我會闡述為什麽事情會發展成這樣，為什麽我們沒有做的非常好，是因為我們在盲目地鬥爭。這和醫療影像有關，這就是為什麽我成果的誕生。為了告訴妳們什麽是最好的能夠提供給腦癌患者的醫療影像，或者給所有癌癥患者的，看壹看這個PET掃描，好，這是壹個PETCT掃描，妳能從這個PET／CT掃描中看出，CT掃描能夠告訴妳骨頭的位置，PET掃描能夠告訴妳腫瘤的位置。現在，妳可以看到，壹個糖分子被添加了壹個小小的標簽，並給在體外的我們打信號，“嘿，我在這。”而且上億那樣的糖分子被註射進病人體內，並散布至全身，尋找需要糖分的細胞。妳會發現，比如說，心臟部位是亮的，那是因為心臟需要很多糖分。妳還會發現膀胱也是亮的。那是因為膀胱負責清除體內的糖分。而且妳會發現其他亮點，這些事實上都是腫瘤。現在，這是壹個很棒的科技。第壹次能夠讓我們觀察人體內部，不需要挑出其中的細胞，並把它們放在顯微鏡下，而且無侵入性地讓我們觀察人體內部，並問，“嘿，癌癥有擴散嗎？它在哪裏？”而且PET掃描很清晰的展示這些亮點在哪裏，那些腫瘤在哪裏。這看起來很奇妙，不幸的是，這並沒有那麽棒。那些小小的亮點，有人能猜猜在其中壹個腫瘤裏有多少癌細胞嗎？大概有1億個癌細胞，讓我解釋這個數據的真實性。每壹個小小的亮點，妳能在圖片中看到的，都需要至少1億個癌細胞才能被檢測到。如果那對妳來說是個很大的數字，沒錯，那就是壹個很大的數字。事實上，這就是壹個非常龐大的數據，因為為了能夠盡早發現壹些東西，並能夠采取有意義的行動，我們需要有壹千個癌細胞大小的腫瘤，但是理想來說，只需要很少癌細胞的腫瘤，所以我們很明顯離這個還很遠。所以我們要做壹個小實驗。我要妳們每壹個人扮演和想象我要妳們每壹個人扮演和想象妳們現在在壹間手術室裏，面前有壹個病人，妳的任務就是保證清除腫瘤。所以妳低頭看著病人，皮膚和頭骨都已經被拆除了，所以妳正在看著大腦。妳知道的所有關於這個病人的，就是有壹個大概高爾夫球大小的腫瘤在這個病人的右額葉。情景大概就是這樣。所以妳往下看，不幸的是，所有東西都看起來是壹樣的，因為腦癌組織和健康的腦組織看起來是壹樣的。所以妳要用妳的拇指，開始輕輕地在大腦上按壓，因為腫瘤相對更硬，所以妳壹遍壹遍做這樣的事情，“看起來腫瘤在這。”然後妳拿出刀，開始切割腫瘤，壹塊壹塊地，當妳正在摘除腫瘤的時候，然後妳會想，“好，我把所有的腫瘤都拿出來了。”到了這個時候，壹切看起來都有點瘋狂，妳現在要面臨人生中最具挑戰的決定，因為妳要決定我應該停下，讓病人出院，承擔有遺留癌細胞的風險，因為妳看不出來，或者我應該多摘除壹些邊緣物質，經常是腫瘤邊緣壹英寸，為了保證移除了所有腫瘤？所以這不是壹個簡單的決定，而且不幸的是，這個決定腦癌手術醫師每天都要做，因為他們要見到病人。所以我記得我跟我的幾個朋友在實驗室聊天，“朋友們，總有更好的方式。”但是不像是妳安慰別人的方式，真的，總有壹個更好的方式。這太不可思議了。所以我們回頭看，想起了我告訴妳們的那個PET掃描，糖分子啊等等。我們說，嘿，如果不用糖分子，我們可以用很小很小的由金構成的粒子，然後在它們旁邊附上壹些有趣的化學物質，讓它們去尋找癌細胞。然後我們會註射這些金粒子，以上十億的數量註入病人體內，讓它們散布全身，妳可以把他們想象成特工，潛伏在我們體內的每壹個細胞，並敲開細胞的門，並問：“妳是壹個癌細胞，還是健康的細胞？”如果妳是壹個健康的細胞，那就繼續，如果妳是壹個癌細胞，我們就原地不動，並發出亮光，並跟我們說，“嘿，看看我，我在這。”通過壹些特殊的攝像頭，是我們在實驗室裏研究出來的，壹旦我們看到癌細胞，可能我們可以帶領腦癌手術醫師，只摘除腫瘤，留下健康的腦細胞。所以我們檢測了這個主意，它的運作很成功。我現在要給妳們展示壹個實驗，妳現在看到的，是壹張老鼠大腦的照片，我們已經在這只老鼠的大腦裏，種植了壹個小腫瘤。所以這個腫瘤現在正在老鼠大腦裏擴散，我們已經請求過壹個醫生，讓他來這只“病人”老鼠動手術，壹片壹片地取出腫瘤。當他在做這個的時候，我們準備給金粒子的位置拍照，所以首先我們要給這只老鼠註射金粒子，所以我們可以看到，在最左邊，底部的那張圖片，展示金粒子的位置，金粒子的好處就是它們能夠成功找到腫瘤，發光，並告訴我們“嘿，我們在這兒，腫瘤在這兒。”所以我們可以看到腫瘤，但是我們還沒有把這個展示給醫生。我們要求醫生開始切除腫瘤，妳能看到四分之壹的腫瘤已經被醫生摘除了，妳已經看不到四分之壹的腫瘤了。醫生然後移除了第二個和第三個四分之壹，現在看起來腫瘤已經被清除幹凈了，到了這個階段，醫生告訴我們說：“好了，我做完了。現在妳們要我幹什麽？留下剩下的不動，還是要我摘除多余的邊緣？”然後我們說：”等等。”我們告訴醫生“妳已經遺漏了這兩處，與其要切除大量的邊緣，還不如把這些小型的部分切除。把它們摘除，然後我們再看看。“然後醫生把它們摘除了，癌細胞現在是完全的沒了。現在，重要的不僅僅是癌癥細胞已經從這個人或者是老鼠的大腦裏摘除了，最重要的是，我不需要摘除大量的健康腦細胞，在手術過程中。所以現在我們可以想象壹個世界，醫生和手術醫師在摘除腫瘤的時候，他们知道什麽是應該摘除了，他們不再需要用拇指來猜測。現在，這是為什麽取出那些剩余少量的腫瘤那麽重要，那些剩下的腫瘤，即使只有壹點點細胞，它們會復發，重新長成腫瘤。事實上，這就是為什麽80%到90%的腦癌手術醫師最終都會失敗，是因為那些我們樂觀地留下少量的邊緣物質，那些我們留下的少量的剩余物質。這看起來很好，我想分享給妳們的是我們該怎麽從這裏開始，所以我在斯坦福的實驗室，我的學生和我在問，現在該研究什麽？我認為醫療影像的未來是查看人體的內部，並能夠分別查看每壹個細胞。像這樣的能力，能夠讓我們在早期移除腫瘤，遠遠在1億個細胞之前，所以我們可以采取行動。壹種能夠查看單個細胞的能力，能夠讓我們提出深刻的問題。所以在實驗室裏，我們達到了壹個臨界點，我們可以開始提出關於癌細胞的問題，比如說，我們給妳的治療有效果嗎？如果沒有效果，我們就會知道要立即停止治療在治療開始幾天，不是三個月。像埃胡德這樣的病人，正在經受這些殘酷治療的，讓他們免受可怕的藥物副作用，當藥物並不會幫助他們的時候。但是坦白來說，我們距離贏得與癌癥的鬥爭還很遠，這就是現實。但是，至少我是樂觀的，我們能夠用更好的醫療影像來做鬥爭，那樣，我們就不會盲目了。謝謝。（鼓掌）
