Talk	en	zh-tw
adora_svitak	"Now, I want to start with a question: When was the last time you were called ""childish""? For kids like me, being called childish can be a frequent occurrence. Every time we make irrational demands, exhibit irresponsible behavior, or display any other signs of being normal American citizens, we are called childish. Which really bothers me. After all, take a look at these events: Imperialism and colonization, world wars, George W. Bush. Ask yourself, who's responsible? Adults. Now, what have kids done? Well, Anne Frank touched millions with her powerful account of the Holocaust. Ruby Bridges helped to end segregation in the United States. And, most recently, Charlie Simpson helped to raise 120,000 pounds for Haiti, on his little bike. So as you can see evidenced by such examples, age has absolutely nothing to do with it. The traits the word ""childish"" addresses are seen so often in adults, that we should abolish this age-discriminatory word, when it comes to criticizing behavior associated with irresponsibility and irrational thinking. (Applause) Thank you. Then again, who's to say that certain types of irrational thinking aren't exactly what the world needs? Maybe you've had grand plans before, but stopped yourself, thinking, ""That's impossible,"" or ""That costs too much,"" or ""That won't benefit me."" For better or worse, we kids aren't hampered as much when it comes to thinking about reasons why not to do things. Kids can be full of inspiring aspirations and hopeful thinking, like my wish that no one went hungry, or that everything were free, a kind of utopia. How many of you still dream like that, and believe in the possibilities? Sometimes a knowledge of history and the past failures of Utopian ideals can be a burden, because you know that if everything were free, then the food stocks would become depleted and scarce and lead to chaos. On the other hand, we kids still dream about perfection. And that's a good thing, because in order to make anything a reality, you have to dream about it first. In many ways, our audacity to imagine helps push the boundaries of possibility. For instance, the Museum of Glass in Tacoma, Washington, my home state — yoohoo, Washington! (Applause) has a program called Kids Design Glass, and kids draw their own ideas for glass art. The resident artist said they got some of their best ideas from the program, because kids don't think about the limitations of how hard it can be to blow glass into certain shapes, they just think of good ideas. Now, when you think of glass, you might think of colorful Chihuly designs, or maybe Italian vases, but kids challenge glass artists to go beyond that, into the realm of brokenhearted snakes and bacon boys, who you can see has meat vision. (Laughter) Now, our inherent wisdom doesn't have to be insider's knowledge. Kids already do a lot of learning from adults, and we have a lot to share. I think that adults should start learning from kids. Now, I do most of my speaking in front of an education crowd — teachers and students, and I like this analogy: It shouldn't be a teacher at the head of the class, telling students, ""Do this, do that."" The students should teach their teachers. Learning between grown-ups and kids should be reciprocal. The reality, unfortunately, is a little different, and it has a lot to do with trust, or a lack of it. Now, if you don't trust someone, you place restrictions on them, right? If I doubt my older sister's ability to pay back the 10 percent interest I established on her last loan, I'm going to withhold her ability to get more money from me, until she pays it back. (Laughter) True story, by the way. Now, adults seem to have a prevalently restrictive attitude towards kids, from every ""Don't do that, don't do this"" in the school handbook, to restrictions on school Internet use. As history points out, regimes become oppressive when they're fearful about keeping control. And although adults may not be quite at the level of totalitarian regimes, kids have no or very little say in making the rules, when really, the attitude should be reciprocal, meaning that the adult population should learn and take into account the wishes of the younger population. Now, what's even worse than restriction, is that adults often underestimate kids' abilities. We love challenges, but when expectations are low, trust me, we will sink to them. My own parents had anything but low expectations for me and my sister. Okay, so they didn't tell us to become doctors or lawyers or anything like that, but my dad did read to us about Aristotle and pioneer germ-fighters, when lots of other kids were hearing ""The Wheels on the Bus Go Round and Round."" Well, we heard that one too, but ""Pioneer Germ Fighters"" totally rules. (Laughter) I loved to write from the age of four, and when I was six, my mom bought me my own laptop equipped with Microsoft Word. Thank you, Bill Gates, and thank you, Ma. I wrote over 300 short stories on that little laptop, and I wanted to get published. Instead of just scoffing at this heresy that a kid wanted to get published, or saying wait until you're older, my parents were really supportive. Many publishers were not quite so encouraging. One large children's publisher ironically said that they didn't work with children. Children's publisher not working with children? I don't know, you're kind of alienating a large client there. (Laughter) One publisher, Action Publishing, was willing to take that leap and trust me, and to listen to what I had to say. They published my first book, ""Flying Fingers,"" you see it here. And from there on, it's gone to speaking at hundreds of schools, keynoting to thousands of educators, and finally, today, speaking to you. I appreciate your attention today, because to show that you truly care, you listen. But there's a problem with this rosy picture of kids being so much better than adults. Kids grow up and become adults just like you. (Laughter) Or just like you? Really? The goal is not to turn kids into your kind of adult, but rather, better adults than you have been, which may be a little challenging, considering your guys' credentials. (Laughter) But the way progress happens, is because new generations and new eras grow and develop and become better than the previous ones. It's the reason we're not in the Dark Ages anymore. No matter your position or place in life, it is imperative to create opportunities for children, so that we can grow up to blow you away. (Laughter) Adults and fellow TEDsters, you need to listen and learn from kids, and trust us and expect more from us. You must lend an ear today, because we are the leaders of tomorrow, which means we're going to take care of you when you're old and senile. No, just kidding. (Laughter) No, really, we are going to be the next generation, the ones who will bring this world forward. And in case you don't think that this really has meaning for you, remember that cloning is possible, and that involves going through childhood again, in which case you'll want to be heard, just like my generation. Now, the world needs opportunities for new leaders and new ideas. Kids need opportunities to lead and succeed. Are you ready to make the match? Because the world's problems shouldn't be the human family's heirloom. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you."	我想要用一個問題來開場：你上次被人家說「幼稚」是什麼時候？我們小孩常被別人說「幼稚」我們只要有不合理的要求做事不負責任或不過做些一般美國人都會做的事我們就被別人說「幼稚」我真的不喜歡這樣畢竟看看以下這些例子帝國主義、殖民統治兩次世界大戰、小布希大家捫心自問，這些該怪誰？大人！ 現在來看看孩子做了些什麼女孩安妮寫下憾動人心的日記呈現猶太人遭屠殺的歷史黑人小女孩露比促進美國族群融合還有最近英國小男孩查理幫海地募到十二萬英鎊他只靠騎著小腳踏車就辦到了所以, 從這些例子可以看出年紀小根本不成問題所謂的「幼稚」太常在大人身上看到了所以我們不該再用這個歧視年齡的字眼不應該用它來批評那些不負責任和非理性思考的行為 （觀眾鼓掌） 謝謝 還有誰說非理性思考一定不會為世界所需呢？也許你們也曾有過遠大的夢想卻裹足不前心想「不可能啦」或是「要花很多錢」或是「這對我沒好處」無論如何，我們小孩比較不會被綁住比較不會找藉口逃避小孩有各式各樣的志向和樂觀的想法比方說我希望世上沒有人挨餓所有東西都免費，像烏托邦一樣你們有誰還抱有這樣的夢想？有誰認為這可能成真？有時候對歷史太了解加上有美好理想落空的經驗反而會被束縛住因為你們知道如果一切都免費那食物存量將會短缺然後耗竭，最後造成社會失序但另一方面我們小孩還是夢想世上有「完美」存在這樣很好因為想要讓一件事成真得要先有夢想的藍圖。 許多方面來說，小孩因為敢大膽想像許多事從不可能變成可能例如，華盛頓州塔柯馬的玻璃博物館我的家鄉— 耶—華盛頓州！（觀眾鼓掌）有一門課程叫做「孩童玻璃設計」小孩用自己的想法來做玻璃藝術駐館的藝術家就說他們許多很棒的點子都來自這門課因為孩子們不會為自己設限不會去想吹玻璃塑型有多難他們只會去想些好點子想到玻璃你們可能想到藝術家奇葫里多彩的設計或是義大利式花瓶但小孩向玻璃藝術師下戰帖做出了超乎想像的「心碎之蛇」還有「培根男孩」，注意他有「肉視」的能力喔！（觀眾笑聲） 其實，所謂的智慧不一定是指學者專家的知識小孩已經從大人身上學到很多了我們也有很多東西想跟大人分享我想大人應該要開始跟小孩學習我現在常在教育界人士面前演講有老師有學生，我很喜歡以下這個說法：不該只有老師站在教室前面告訴學生做這做那學生也應該來教老師大人和小孩之間應該彼此學習但現實卻和理想有些差距這和信不信任對方有關，或可說彼此缺乏信任。 如果不信任某人，就會對那個人多加限制，對吧？如果我覺得我姐姐還不了向我借來的錢那10％利息這個我訂下的利率我就不會再借錢給她除非她把錢還我(觀眾笑聲)對了, 這件事完全屬實。大人好像都喜歡管小孩只要是任何違反校規的事都不能做連學校上網也有限制自古以來，許多政權之所以高壓統治是因為怕管不住人民雖然大人還說不上是完全的「極權」但是小孩對規定也幾乎無權過問儘管態度應該是互相的也就是說大人應該要學著把小孩的願望也納入考量 有一件比管教更嚴重的事就是大人常常低估小孩的能力我們喜歡挑戰，但大人如果期望不高我保證，我們小孩就會爛給你看我的爸媽從不會看輕我和我姊他們沒有叫我們以後要當醫生或是律師之類的但我爸以前會讀故事給我們聽像是亞里斯多德的故事和「抗菌先鋒」的故事。相較之下，同齡小孩那時多半在聽「哥哥爸爸真偉大」之類的其實我們也聽兒歌，但「抗菌先鋒」比較讚（觀眾笑聲） 打從四歲起，我就喜歡寫東西我六歲時媽媽就買了裝有微軟Word作業系統的筆電給我要謝謝比爾蓋茲，也要謝謝老媽！我寫的三百多則短篇故事都是用那台筆電完成我後來想出書我爸媽不但沒笑我說小孩子還想出書這類的話也沒要我長大再說反而很支持我但找了很多出版社都碰壁一家規模很大的童書出版社竟然說他們不跟小孩合作童書出版社不跟孩童合作？不知道耶，但不就失去我這棵搖錢樹了。（觀眾笑聲）有一家出版社叫「行動出版社」決定放手一搏，相信我願意聽我的想法他們出版了我第一本書《飛舞的手指》，就是這本從那時起，我就受邀到上百所學校演講在數千個教育工作者發表演說也才會有今天的演講 很感謝你們今天的聆聽因為真正在乎的人才懂得傾聽不過問題是小孩雖然好像比大人優秀但小孩還是會長大，不就成為像你們一樣的大人了（觀眾笑聲）但真的是這樣嗎？真正的目標不是要讓小孩成為你們♫而是要超越你們雖然可能有點困難畢竟你們學經歷都滿了不起的不過世界之所以會進步就是因為新的世代、新的時代不斷成長發展，進而比上個世代更好這也是為什麼我們能脫離黑暗時代不論你們現在的地位為何一定要幫孩子們創造機會好讓我們長大後能打敗你們（觀眾笑聲） 所有大人和TED的成員請傾聽小孩的聲音並向小孩學習並且相信我們，對我們期望高一點你們現在得耐心傾聽因為未來是我們小孩作主也就是說以後是我們要照顧你們不然你們老了怎麼辦，好啦開玩笑的不過，我們這個世代將會帶領這個世界前進如果還認為這不重要記得有所謂複製人的技術你們有機會重回童年到時你們也會希望自己的聲音不被忽視就像我們一樣現今世界各國都需要把機會交給未來主人翁，讓他們展現新穎的想法小孩需要這些機會學習領導和體驗成功的滋味你們準備好把機會交給我們了嗎？因為當今世界上各種問題應該不會是人類想留給子孫的遺產才對 謝謝（觀眾鼓掌）謝謝大家
