Talk	en	zh-tw
aimee_mullins_on_running	"Sheryl Shade: Hi, Aimee. Aimee Mullins: Hi. SS: Aimee and I thought we'd just talk a little bit, and I wanted her to tell all of you what makes her a distinctive athlete. AM: Well, for those of you who have seen the picture in the little bio — it might have given it away — I'm a double amputee, and I was born without fibulas in both legs. I was amputated at age one, and I've been running like hell ever since, all over the place. SS: Well, why don't you tell them how you got to Georgetown — why don't we start there? Why don't we start there? AM: I'm a senior in Georgetown in the Foreign Service program. I won a full academic scholarship out of high school. They pick three students out of the nation every year to get involved in international affairs, and so I won a full ride to Georgetown and I've been there for four years. Love it. SS: When Aimee got there, she decided that she's, kind of, curious about track and field, so she decided to call someone and start asking about it. So, why don't you tell that story? AM: Yeah. Well, I guess I've always been involved in sports. I played softball for five years growing up. I skied competitively throughout high school, and I got a little restless in college because I wasn't doing anything for about a year or two sports-wise. And I'd never competed on a disabled level, you know — I'd always competed against other able-bodied athletes. That's all I'd ever known. In fact, I'd never even met another amputee until I was 17. And I heard that they do these track meets with all disabled runners, and I figured, ""Oh, I don't know about this, but before I judge it, let me go see what it's all about."" So, I booked myself a flight to Boston in '95, 19 years old and definitely the dark horse candidate at this race. I'd never done it before. I went out on a gravel track a couple of weeks before this meet to see how far I could run, and about 50 meters was enough for me, panting and heaving. And I had these legs that were made of a wood and plastic compound, attached with Velcro straps — big, thick, five-ply wool socks on — you know, not the most comfortable things, but all I'd ever known. And I'm up there in Boston against people wearing legs made of all things — carbon graphite and, you know, shock absorbers in them and all sorts of things — and they're all looking at me like, OK, we know who's not going to win this race. And, I mean, I went up there expecting — I don't know what I was expecting — but, you know, when I saw a man who was missing an entire leg go up to the high jump, hop on one leg to the high jump and clear it at six feet, two inches ... Dan O'Brien jumped 5'11"" in '96 in Atlanta, I mean, if it just gives you a comparison of — these are truly accomplished athletes, without qualifying that word ""athlete."" And so I decided to give this a shot: heart pounding, I ran my first race and I beat the national record-holder by three hundredths of a second, and became the new national record-holder on my first try out. And, you know, people said, ""Aimee, you know, you've got speed — you've got natural speed — but you don't have any skill or finesse going down that track. You were all over the place. We all saw how hard you were working."" And so I decided to call the track coach at Georgetown. And I thank god I didn't know just how huge this man is in the track and field world. He's coached five Olympians, and the man's office is lined from floor to ceiling with All America certificates of all these athletes he's coached. He's just a rather intimidating figure. And I called him up and said, ""Listen, I ran one race and I won ..."" (Laughter) ""I want to see if I can, you know — I need to just see if I can sit in on some of your practices, see what drills you do and whatever."" That's all I wanted — just two practices. ""Can I just sit in and see what you do?"" And he said, ""Well, we should meet first, before we decide anything."" You know, he's thinking, ""What am I getting myself into?"" So, I met the man, walked in his office, and saw these posters and magazine covers of people he has coached. And we got to talking, and it turned out to be a great partnership because he'd never coached a disabled athlete, so therefore he had no preconceived notions of what I was or wasn't capable of, and I'd never been coached before. So this was like, ""Here we go — let's start on this trip."" So he started giving me four days a week of his lunch break, his free time, and I would come up to the track and train with him. So that's how I met Frank. That was fall of '95. But then, by the time that winter was rolling around, he said, ""You know, you're good enough. You can run on our women's track team here."" And I said, ""No, come on."" And he said, ""No, no, really. You can. You can run with our women's track team."" In the spring of 1996, with my goal of making the U.S. Paralympic team that May coming up full speed, I joined the women's track team. And no disabled person had ever done that — run at a collegiate level. So I don't know, it started to become an interesting mix. SS: Well, on your way to the Olympics, a couple of memorable events happened at Georgetown. Why don't you just tell them? AM: Yes, well, you know, I'd won everything as far as the disabled meets — everything I competed in — and, you know, training in Georgetown and knowing that I was going to have to get used to seeing the backs of all these women's shirts — you know, I'm running against the next Flo-Jo — and they're all looking at me like, ""Hmm, what's, you know, what's going on here?"" And putting on my Georgetown uniform and going out there and knowing that, you know, in order to become better — and I'm already the best in the country — you know, you have to train with people who are inherently better than you. And I went out there and made it to the Big East, which was sort of the championship race at the end of the season. It was really, really hot. And it's the first — I had just gotten these new sprinting legs that you see in that bio, and I didn't realize at that time that the amount of sweating I would be doing in the sock — it actually acted like a lubricant and I'd be, kind of, pistoning in the socket. And at about 85 meters of my 100 meters sprint, in all my glory, I came out of my leg. Like, I almost came out of it, in front of, like, 5,000 people. And I, I mean, was just mortified — because I was signed up for the 200, you know, which went off in a half hour. (Laughter) I went to my coach: ""Please, don't make me do this."" I can't do this in front of all those people. My legs will come off. And if it came off at 85 there's no way I'm going 200 meters. And he just sat there like this. My pleas fell on deaf ears, thank god. Because you know, the man is from Brooklyn; he's a big man. He says, ""Aimee, so what if your leg falls off? You pick it up, you put the damn thing back on, and finish the goddamn race!"" (Laughter) (Applause) And I did. So, he kept me in line. He kept me on the right track. SS: So, then Aimee makes it to the 1996 Paralympics, and she's all excited. Her family's coming down — it's a big deal. It's now two years that you've been running? AM: No, a year. SS: A year. And why don't you tell them what happened right before you go run your race? AM: Okay, well, Atlanta. The Paralympics, just for a little bit of clarification, are the Olympics for people with physical disabilities — amputees, persons with cerebral palsy, and wheelchair athletes — as opposed to the Special Olympics, which deals with people with mental disabilities. So, here we are, a week after the Olympics and down at Atlanta, and I'm just blown away by the fact that just a year ago, I got out on a gravel track and couldn't run 50 meters. And so, here I am — never lost. I set new records at the U.S. Nationals — the Olympic trials — that May, and was sure that I was coming home with the gold. I was also the only, what they call ""bilateral BK"" — below the knee. I was the only woman who would be doing the long jump. I had just done the long jump, and a guy who was missing two legs came up to me and says, ""How do you do that? You know, we're supposed to have a planar foot, so we can't get off on the springboard."" I said, ""Well, I just did it. No one told me that."" So, it's funny — I'm three inches within the world record — and kept on from that point, you know, so I'm signed up in the long jump — signed up? No, I made it for the long jump and the 100-meter. And I'm sure of it, you know? I made the front page of my hometown paper that I delivered for six years, you know? It was, like, this is my time for shine. And we're at the trainee warm-up track, which is a few blocks away from the Olympic stadium. These legs that I was on, which I'll take out right now — I was the first person in the world on these legs. I was the guinea pig., I'm telling you, this was, like — talk about a tourist attraction. Everyone was taking pictures — ""What is this girl running on?"" And I'm always looking around, like, where is my competition? It's my first international meet. I tried to get it out of anybody I could, you know, ""Who am I running against here?"" ""Oh, Aimee, we'll have to get back to you on that one."" I wanted to find out times. ""Don't worry, you're doing great."" This is 20 minutes before my race in the Olympic stadium, and they post the heat sheets. And I go over and look. And my fastest time, which was the world record, was 15.77. Then I'm looking: the next lane, lane two, is 12.8. Lane three is 12.5. Lane four is 12.2. I said, ""What's going on?"" And they shove us all into the shuttle bus, and all the women there are missing a hand. (Laughter) So, I'm just, like — they're all looking at me like 'which one of these is not like the other,' you know? I'm sitting there, like, ""Oh, my god. Oh, my god."" You know, I'd never lost anything, like, whether it would be the scholarship or, you know, I'd won five golds when I skied. In everything, I came in first. And Georgetown — that was great. I was losing, but it was the best training because this was Atlanta. Here we are, like, crème de la crème, and there is no doubt about it, that I'm going to lose big. And, you know, I'm just thinking, ""Oh, my god, my whole family got in a van and drove down here from Pennsylvania."" And, you know, I was the only female U.S. sprinter. So they call us out and, you know — ""Ladies, you have one minute."" And I remember putting my blocks in and just feeling horrified because there was just this murmur coming over the crowd, like, the ones who are close enough to the starting line to see. And I'm like, ""I know! Look! This isn't right."" And I'm thinking that's my last card to play here; if I'm not going to beat these girls, I'm going to mess their heads a little, you know? (Laughter) I mean, it was definitely the ""Rocky IV"" sensation of me versus Germany, and everyone else — Estonia and Poland — was in this heat. And the gun went off, and all I remember was finishing last and fighting back tears of frustration and incredible — incredible — this feeling of just being overwhelmed. And I had to think, ""Why did I do this?"" If I had won everything — but it was like, what was the point? All this training — I had transformed my life. I became a collegiate athlete, you know. I became an Olympic athlete. And it made me really think about how the achievement was getting there. I mean, the fact that I set my sights, just a year and three months before, on becoming an Olympic athlete and saying, ""Here's my life going in this direction — and I want to take it here for a while, and just seeing how far I could push it."" And the fact that I asked for help — how many people jumped on board? How many people gave of their time and their expertise, and their patience, to deal with me? And that was this collective glory — that there was, you know, 50 people behind me that had joined in this incredible experience of going to Atlanta. So, I apply this sort of philosophy now to everything I do: sitting back and realizing the progression, how far you've come at this day to this goal, you know. It's important to focus on a goal, I think, but also recognize the progression on the way there and how you've grown as a person. That's the achievement, I think. That's the real achievement. SS: Why don't you show them your legs? AM: Oh, sure. SS: You know, show us more than one set of legs. AM: Well, these are my pretty legs. (Laughter) No, these are my cosmetic legs, actually, and they're absolutely beautiful. You've got to come up and see them. There are hair follicles on them, and I can paint my toenails. And, seriously, like, I can wear heels. Like, you guys don't understand what that's like to be able to just go into a shoe store and buy whatever you want. SS: You got to pick your height? AM: I got to pick my height, exactly. (Laughter) Patrick Ewing, who played for Georgetown in the '80s, comes back every summer. And I had incessant fun making fun of him in the training room because he'd come in with foot injuries. I'm like, ""Get it off! Don't worry about it, you know. You can be eight feet tall. Just take them off."" (Laughter) He didn't find it as humorous as I did, anyway. OK, now, these are my sprinting legs, made of carbon graphite, like I said, and I've got to make sure I've got the right socket. No, I've got so many legs in here. These are — do you want to hold that actually? That's another leg I have for, like, tennis and softball. It has a shock absorber in it so it, like, ""Shhhh,"" makes this neat sound when you jump around on it. All right. And then this is the silicon sheath I roll over, to keep it on. Which, when I sweat, you know, I'm pistoning out of it. SS: Are you a different height? AM: In these? SS: In these. AM: I don't know. I don't think so. I may be a little taller. I actually can put both of them on. SS: She can't really stand on these legs. She has to be moving, so ... AM: Yeah, I definitely have to be moving, and balance is a little bit of an art in them. But without having the silicon sock, I'm just going to try slip in it. And so, I run on these, and have shocked half the world on these. (Applause) These are supposed to simulate the actual form of a sprinter when they run. If you ever watch a sprinter, the ball of their foot is the only thing that ever hits the track. So when I stand in these legs, my hamstring and my glutes are contracted, as they would be had I had feet and were standing on the ball of my feet. (Audience: Who made them?) AM: It's a company in San Diego called Flex-Foot. And I was a guinea pig, as I hope to continue to be in every new form of prosthetic limbs that come out. But actually these, like I said, are still the actual prototype. I need to get some new ones because the last meet I was at, they were everywhere. You know, it's like a big — it's come full circle. Moderator: Aimee and the designer of them will be at TEDMED 2, and we'll talk about the design of them. AM: Yes, we'll do that. SS: Yes, there you go. AM: So, these are the sprint legs, and I can put my other... SS: Can you tell about who designed your other legs? AM: Yes. These I got in a place called Bournemouth, England, about two hours south of London, and I'm the only person in the United States with these, which is a crime because they are so beautiful. And I don't even mean, like, because of the toes and everything. For me, while I'm such a serious athlete on the track, I want to be feminine off the track, and I think it's so important not to be limited in any capacity, whether it's, you know, your mobility or even fashion. I mean, I love the fact that I can go in anywhere and pick out what I want — the shoes I want, the skirts I want — and I'm hoping to try to bring these over here and make them accessible to a lot of people. They're also silicon. This is a really basic, basic prosthetic limb under here. It's like a Barbie foot under this. (Laughter) It is. It's just stuck in this position, so I have to wear a two-inch heel. And, I mean, it's really — let me take this off so you can see it. I don't know how good you can see it, but, like, it really is. There're veins on the feet, and then my heel is pink, and my Achilles' tendon — that moves a little bit. And it's really an amazing store. I got them a year and two weeks ago. And this is just a silicon piece of skin. I mean, what happened was, two years ago this man in Belgium was saying, ""God, if I can go to Madame Tussauds' wax museum and see Jerry Hall replicated down to the color of her eyes, looking so real as if she breathed, why can't they build a limb for someone that looks like a leg, or an arm, or a hand?"" I mean, they make ears for burn victims. They do amazing stuff with silicon. SS: Two weeks ago, Aimee was up for the Arthur Ashe award at the ESPYs. And she came into town and she rushed around and she said, ""I have to buy some new shoes!"" We're an hour before the ESPYs, and she thought she'd gotten a two-inch heel but she'd actually bought a three-inch heel. AM: And this poses a problem for me, because it means I'm walking like that all night long. SS: For 45 minutes. Luckily, the hotel was terrific. They got someone to come in and saw off the shoes. (Laughter) AM: I said to the receptionist — I mean, I am just harried, and Sheryl's at my side — I said, ""Look, do you have anybody here who could help me? Because I have this problem ... "" You know, at first they were just going to write me off, like, ""If you don't like your shoes, sorry. It's too late."" ""No, no, no, no. I've got these special feet that need a two-inch heel. I have a three-inch heel. I need a little bit off."" They didn't even want to go there. They didn't even want to touch that one. They just did it. No, these legs are great. I'm actually going back in a couple of weeks to get some improvements. I want to get legs like these made for flat feet so I can wear sneakers, because I can't with these ones. So... Moderator: That's it. SS: That's Aimee Mullins. (Applause)"	"雀麗爾：艾美和我覺得......嗨，艾美。艾美.穆林斯：嗨。 雀麗爾：剛剛艾美和我稍微聊了一下，我想請她跟在座各位分享，究竟是什麼原因讓她成為如此傑出的運動員。 艾美：嗯，在座看過我簡歷上照片的來賓，應該就會知道。我雙腿截肢，出生時兩腿就沒有腓骨。一歲的時候我動了截肢手術，從此之後我只能辛苦的到處走動。 雀麗爾：嗯，妳要不要跟大家談談，比方說，妳是怎麼進到喬治城大學的？我們要不要從那裡開始談起？ 艾美：我是喬治城大學四年級的學生，主修對外事務。我拿的是提供給應屆畢業高中生的全額獎學金。喬治城大學每年會從全國挑選三名學生去參與國際事務的處理，我也因此獲得進入喬治城大學的機會，我在那裡待了四年。非常喜愛那個地方。 雀麗爾：艾美到那邊的時候，她覺得自己對於田徑活動感到有些好奇，所以她決定打電話詢問相關的事情。妳要不要跟我們談談這個經過呢？ 艾美：好啊。嗯，我想我一直都還蠻熱衷於體育活動。小時候我打了五年壘球。高中時代也是滑雪競賽的好手，進大學之後我變得有點坐不住的感覺，因為差不多有一到兩年的時間，我都沒有從事任何運動。而且我也從來沒有參加殘障運動競賽。我一直都是跟肢體健全的運動選手比賽。那就是我一直以來的經驗。事實上，我一直到17歲時才認識另外一位截肢者。我聽說他們有舉辦那種給全都是殘障跑者參加的比賽，我才發現，噢，我都不知道有這種活動，但在我對這些活動下判斷前，我想先去看個究竟。所以，我訂了張到波士頓的機票，那是1995年的事情，我當時19歲，當然也成了比賽場上的黑馬。我從沒做過這樣的事情。在比賽的兩個禮拜前，我到一條砂石賽道上想試試看自己能夠跑多遠，我跑到氣喘吁吁，50米就差不多是我的極限了。我當時裝的義肢是由，像是，木頭和塑膠材質合成，再用Velcro魔鬼沾綁帶固定，又大又厚，再穿上五層羊毛襪，你知道，談不上舒適，不過當時我就只有這些裝備。 我就這樣到波士頓上場參加比賽，對手都戴著碳纖維做成的義肢，裡面還有避震器之類的東西，所有的人都衝著我瞧，好像在說：「好啦，這下我們都知道誰不可能會贏啦！」似的。我是說，我到那裡去，心中懷著期待，我也不知道自己在期待什麼，但是，當我看見一位失去整條腿的男選手上場參加跳高比賽，用單腿去奮力跳高並且一舉跳過6英尺2英吋......丹．歐布萊恩在1996年亞特蘭大奧運會的成績是5英尺11英吋，我的意思是，假如這個例子可以讓你有一個對照的話，這些人都是，你知道的，貨真價實的優秀運動員，即使他們看起來並不具備成為""運動員""該有的條件。所以我決定要嘗試一下，你知道，我緊張得心臟怦怦跳，我參加了第一場比賽，並且以百分之三秒之差打敗了全國紀錄保持人，在第一場預賽我就成爲全國紀錄保持人了。 然後，人們跟我說，「艾美，妳是知道的，妳速度很快，妳有天生的速度感，可是妳對賽跑的技巧和策略卻一無所知。妳只知道用盡全力去跑。我們都看到妳有多麼努力。」於是我決定打電話請教喬治城大學的田徑教練。謝天謝地，當時我完全不知道他在田徑界是多麼重量級的人物。他訓練過五名奧運選手，你知道嗎，這個人的辦公室從地板到天花板貼滿了全美國接受過他訓練的運動員的表揚證書，他就是這樣一個讓人敬畏的人物。我打去對他說：「聽著，我參加了一次比賽而且跑贏了，然後...... （笑聲） 我想知道我是不是能，你知道的，我想知道我是不是能去旁聽你們的練習，看看你們都在做些什麼訓練。」那就是我想要的，就是去旁聽兩場練習。我能不能去旁聽，看看你們都在做什麼呢？他回答說：「這樣啊，不過在做任何決定之前，我們應該先碰個面吧。」當時他一定在想：「現在這是什麼狀況啊？」所以，我就去見了他，走進他的辦公室，也看到那些印著他訓練過的選手們的海報和雜誌封面。然後我們坐下來開始聊，後來我們建立了非常棒的合作關係，因為他從來沒有帶過任何殘障運動員，所以他對於我的能力和限制沒有任何先入為主的想法。而我從來沒有接受過任何指導，所以那感覺，就像，走吧，咱們就開始走這趟旅程吧。 他開始每週四天，利用他的午休時間指導我，那是他的空閒時間，我會到田徑場去跟他一起做訓練。這就是我跟法蘭克認識的經過。不過那是1995年秋天的事情，然後，到了冬天的時候，他說：「妳知道嗎？妳很不錯。妳可以加入我們的女子田徑隊。」我說：「不會吧，別鬧了。」他說：「不，不，真的，妳行的。妳可以跟女子田徑校隊一起跑。」於是在1996年春季，我以進入殘障奧運代表隊爲目標，在差不多快五月的時候，加入了女子田徑隊。從來沒有任何殘障人士做過這種事，參加大專級的賽跑活動。所以，我也不曉得，整件事情就開始變成一個有趣的組合了。 雀麗爾：嗯，那你要不要跟大家談談，比方說，妳的奧林匹克之路，在喬治城發生了一些值得紀念的事情不是嗎？妳要不要跟大家說說看？艾美：好的，嗯，你也知道，在我參加的殘障運動會裡我一直都是勝利者；然而，在喬治城受訓的時候我認知到自己必須開始去習慣在後頭看著其他女選手的背影，你知道的，我是在跟下一個葛瑞菲斯一起練跑耶，她們全都看著我，像在說，唔，這是......這是發生了啥事啊？而且，你也曉得，我穿上喬治城大學田徑隊的制服到田徑練習場去，心裡很清楚這麼做是為了讓自己更進步；而我已經是全美國最佳的選手了；只不過，現在我必須跟那些天生就比我具優勢的選手們一起做訓練。 我就這樣一路闖進了大東部聯盟，那有點類似，季後冠軍賽，當時非常，非常熱。這是第一次，我裝上你們在我簡歷裡看到的那些短跑腿，當時我還沒意識到，奔跑的時候居然會流出麼多汗，那些汗就跟潤滑劑一樣而我的狀況簡直就像是插槽裡的活塞似的。然後在百米短跑的85米處，就在我全力以赴的時候，我的腿掉了。當著大約5,000名觀眾面前，它就這麼掉下來了。我簡直是，糗斃了，而且，我還報名了200米短跑，半小時之內就要開始比賽了。 (笑聲) 我走到教練面前，我......「拜託，別再逼我跑了。」我沒辦法在這些觀眾面前跑，我的腿會掉下來。如果它在85米的地方就掉下來，那我絕對不可能跑完200米啊。而他就這樣子坐在那裡。對我的請求完全充耳不聞，真的是謝天謝地，因為他就像是，你知道的，這男人是從布魯克林來的，他是大塊頭，他對我說：「艾美，就算妳的腿掉下來了又怎樣？妳就把它給我撿起來，裝回去，然後把這場該死的比賽給我跑完！」 （掌聲）我照做了，所以，從某種角度上來說，是他把我留在這個領域裡的。他讓我保持在正確的軌道上不至於偏離。 雀麗爾：接著艾美參加了1996年殘障奧運，她興奮極了。而且全家人都來參觀比賽，這可是件大事呢。她已經......妳已經跑了兩年了是嗎？ 艾美：不，一年而已。 雀麗爾：一年。那要不要跟大家談談在妳比賽之前發生了什麼事情？ 艾美：好的，嗯，亞特蘭大。殘障奧運，先簡單的說明一下，這是為肢體殘障的人士所舉辦的奧林匹克運動會；是為那些截肢、腦性痲痹、和坐輪椅的運動員所舉辦的；有別於為智能障礙者所舉辦的特殊奧運。所以，我們在奧運會結束一個禮拜後抵達了亞特蘭大，我才驚訝的意識到，你知道的，不過就是一年之前，我在砂土賽道上還跑不過五十米。而現在，我站在這裡，一場比賽都沒輸過。那年五月，我在奧運選拔賽上，創新了全美國紀錄，而且就，你知道的，信心滿滿，非常篤定自己會帶著奧運金牌回家。我也是唯一一個，他們稱為，膝下雙腿截肢的選手。我還是唯一一個報名參加跳遠比賽的女選手。我才剛跳完，一個沒有雙腿的男選手就跑過來問我：「妳是怎麼辦到的啊？妳曉得嗎？我們應該都是平足，所以我們沒辦法從跳板上跳出去的啊。」我說：「哦，可是我剛剛就跳出去耶。沒有人跟我說過這種事啊。」 好玩的是，我的成績離世界紀錄還不到三英吋，從那時候起我都持續參加跳遠比賽，所以我報名了跳遠......報名？不，我入選了跳遠跟百米短跑。我很勢在必得，你知道嗎。我上了家鄉報紙的頭版，以前我還幫那家報社送過六年報紙呢！那就像是，我發光發熱的時刻來臨了。那時我們位在熱身體育館，培訓熱身跑道，距離奧運會場只有幾個街區。我現在拿出來的這些，就是我當時裝的義肢。我是世界上第一個裝這種義肢的人，我是實驗的白老鼠。而且跟你說，感覺就像是，在介紹旅遊景點一樣。 所有的攝影機都對著我：「這個女孩是穿什麼東西參加賽跑啊？」而我一直東張西望，想知道我的對手都到哪去了？這是我參加的第一個國際性比賽。我想盡全力超越所有人，你知道我的競爭對手都是些什麼樣的人嗎？「噢，艾美，我們待會再來聊這件事。」我想知道對手之前的成績。「別擔心，妳知道的，妳表現得很棒。」距離比賽開始前20分鐘，在奧運會場他們公佈了參賽者入選的成績。於是我走過去看。我最好的成績，也是當時的世界紀錄，是15.77秒。然後我看了下一行，第二行，是12.8秒。第三行是12.5秒。第四行是12.2秒。我心想：「這究竟是怎麼一回事啊？」接著他們就把我們這些運動員都推上巴士去，而車上所有的女選手都少了一隻手。 （笑聲） 所以，我就......像是......她們全盯著我看，像是在說這傢伙非我族類，你知道嗎？我就坐在那邊，心想：「噢，天啊！天啊！」你是知道的，我比賽從沒輸過，好比說，不論是獎學金，或，你知道的，我贏過五面滑雪金牌。所有的比賽，我都是第一名。然後在喬治城，那也是很棒的經驗。雖然我輸了，不過那是最好的訓練，因為那是為參加亞特蘭大奧運所作的準備。不過現在，聚在這裡的全都是精英中的精英，毫無疑問的，我會輸，而且會輸得很慘。接著，你知道嗎，我還想到：「噢，我的天吶！我們一家子全都擠上一臺麵包車，一路從賓州開過來耶！」而且，你也曉得，我是唯一代表美國參賽的女子短跑選手。然後，他們就把我們叫出去，說：「女士們，比賽將在一分鐘後開始。」我把起跑器裝好，覺得非常忐忑不安，因為我聽見觀眾群裡有人在竊竊私語，比如說，那些座位距離起跑線夠近，可以看得很清楚的人，而我就像這樣：「對啊！你瞧瞧！這不太對勁吧！」我心想，我手上最後一張排，就是，好吧，就算我沒辦法打敗這群女孩子們，至少我也要搞得她們七葷八素，你曉得嗎？ （笑聲） 我是說，那根本就像在演洛基第四集天下無敵，我對抗德國，還有所有其他選手，愛沙尼亞和波蘭，全在此列。接著，你知道，槍聲響起，而我只記得，我是最後一個跑完的，你知道那種感覺嗎？努力把不甘心的淚水往肚裡吞，還有那種難以置信、被徹底打垮的感覺。而我得要想想，這一切是所為何來，你知道嗎？如果我以前樣樣都拿第一，那麼我所做的一切究竟有什麼意義？所有的訓練，以及我生命的轉變。我成了一名大學運動員。當上奧運選手。這讓我真正體會到，你知道的，能走到這一步就是我最大的成就。我是說，實際上我在一年三個月之前才立定目標要成為一名奧林匹克運動員，並決定以此做為人生的方向前進。我想暫時朝著這個方向努力，看看自己能夠走多遠。 還有我得到的眾多幫助，有多少人為了我的夢想被牽扯進來？多少人犧牲他們寶貴的時間，分享他們專業的知識，還有他們無比的耐心，陪著我一起努力奮戰？那是一種集體的榮耀，在我背後有50個人共同參與了這趟讓我前進亞特蘭大的神奇之旅。我的意思是，現在我把這個哲學運用在我所做的每一件事情上，好比像，坐下來好好的想想這些成長，像是，我究竟走了多遠，才能達到現在所在的目標。當然擁有明確的目標是很重要的，不過我認為了解自己一路走來的進步，和自己身爲一個人是如何成長茁壯的過程也同樣重要。那就是所謂的成就，真正的成就。 雀麗爾：妳要不要讓大家看看妳的腿？ 艾美：噢，好啊。雀麗爾：就多介紹幾雙吧。 艾美：好啦，這些就是我的美腿們。 （笑聲） 真的，事實上，這些都是我的美容腿。它們真的美呆了。你們真該靠過來好好瞧一瞧。這些腿上都有毛囊，我還可以塗指甲油。不是開玩笑，我還能穿高跟鞋呢。我想你們不會了解，能夠走進鞋店任意挑選自己想穿的鞋子，那種感覺有多棒。雀麗爾：妳也可以決定自己的身高囉？艾美：我的確可以決定自己的身高，隨心所欲喔。 （笑聲） 派區克．尤恩在80年代曾經代表喬治城大學參加比賽，每年夏天他都會回學校來走走。有一次我在訓練室裡跟他開玩笑，讓我簡直樂不可支，因為那次他來的時候腳受了傷。我對他說：「把你的腿脫下來呀！別擔心，知道嗎，你可以裝別雙腿變成八呎大漢。就把這雙腿脫下來嘛。」 （笑聲） 我是覺得很好笑，可惜他並不覺得這個玩笑真的很幽默。好啦，現在我們看到的這些就是我的短跑腿，是碳纖維做成的，我得確認有把它們卡進正確的插槽裡。啊......我怎麼帶了這麼多雙腿上來。這雙，可以幫我拿一下嗎？另外這雙是我打網球和壘球時用的。這裡頭有避震器，所以當你穿著它跳來跳去的時候，它會發出類似像""噓""這樣很好玩的聲音。好了。現在我正在穿上的這個是矽膠套，穿矽膠套的目的是為了讓腿固定，否則我跑步流太多汗的話，我的腿可能就會飛出去。 雀麗爾：妳現在的身高是不是不太一樣？ 艾美：你是說戴著這雙腿的時候嗎？ 雀麗爾：對，戴著這雙腿的時候。 艾美：不曉得耶。應該沒有吧。我想應該沒有。可能會高一點吧。其實我可以把兩條腿都戴上。 雀麗爾：她沒辦法戴著這雙腿靜靜站著。她必須不停走動，所以...... 艾美：沒錯，我得不停走動，戴著這雙腿的時候，要保持平衡可是門藝術呢。我就不穿矽膠套，直接把腿戴上就好。所以呢，我就是戴著這雙腿跑步的，戴著這雙腿震撼了半個世界。 （掌聲） 這些腿是模擬短跑選手跑步的真實狀態所設計的。如果你曾經觀察過短跑選手的話，會發現腳拇指掌丘是他們跑步時唯一會接觸地面的部份，所以當我戴上這雙腿站著的時候，我的腿後肌和臀肌都會收縮起來，就好像我是站在自己真正的腳拇指掌丘一樣的狀態。 （觀眾：這些腿是誰做的？） 艾美：是聖地牙哥一家叫做""飛毛腿""的公司做的。而我是他們的白老鼠，我也希望能夠繼續當他們每一種義肢新產品的白老鼠。不過說真的，就像我之前說過的，這些都還是雛形而已。而且我也需要找其他新的義肢了，因為我上次參加的那場比賽，你知道的，那真的是......完全又退回原點了。 主持人：艾美和義肢的設計師會在 TED Med 2跟我們談關於設計義肢這方面的主題。 艾美：是的。 雀麗爾：對啊，真讓人期待。 艾美：所以嚕，這些就是短跑腿，我還可以戴上其他的...... 雀麗爾：能不能說一下是誰設計了妳其他的義肢呢？ 艾美：當然可以。這些是我在英國的伯恩茅斯找到的，位於倫敦南邊，大約兩小時車程，我是全美國唯一擁有這種義肢的人，這簡直就像犯罪，因為這些腿真的好美。我是說，不光是腳趾啦或其他的一切設計細節......而是，你知道，對我來說，在田徑場上我是個非常認真的運動員，但是下了田徑場，我希望自己也可以很有女人味，因為我覺得那很重要，你了解嗎，我不想被自己本身的條件設限了，不論是自己的活動範圍，甚至於是流行品味。我是說，我非常高興自己可以四處自由行動，隨心所欲去挑我要的鞋子和衣服，因此我也很希望將這種腿引進美國，以便造福更多人。這些腿也是矽膠作成的。這算是非常非常基本款的義肢。下面的構造就像芭比娃娃的腳一樣。 （笑聲） 真的！我是說，因為腳掌就是固定成這個姿勢，所以我只能穿兩吋的高跟鞋。而且，這真的,,,,,,我把鞋子脫下來，讓你們看得比較清楚點。不知道你們能不能看得很清楚，不過，這真的......腳上有靜脈血管，而且我的腳跟是粉紅色的，我的阿基里斯腱還會微微的顫動。真的非常棒。我是在一年又兩星期前拿到這雙腿的。這上頭是一層矽膠做成的皮膚。在兩年前，有個比利時男人說，我的天啊！要是我到杜莎夫人蠟像館去，可以看到連瞳孔顏色都複製得栩栩如生，簡直像會呼吸的潔芮．霍爾的話，為什麼又不能做出看起來就像真腿、真手臂、或真手掌的義肢呢？他們現在還為火災傷患者做了逼真的耳朵。他們運用矽膠材質做出很多傑出的作品。 雀麗爾：兩個禮拜前，艾美去接受 ESPY 的亞瑟．艾許獎。她到舉行頒獎典禮的所在地後，就急著到處逛，因為她說：「我得買雙新鞋子！」那時候距離 ESPY 頒奬典禮開始只剩下一個小時，然後她以為她買了一雙兩吋的高跟鞋，結果她買的其實是三吋的高跟鞋。 艾美：那讓我很傷腦筋，因為那表示我得整晚都""那樣""走。 雀麗爾：我們花了45分鐘，幸好那間飯店的工作人員很棒。他們找了一個人來把那雙鞋子的鞋跟鋸短。 （笑聲） 艾美：我當時很焦躁，雀麗爾就在我旁邊，我跟櫃台人員說：「聽著，你們有沒有誰可以幫我？因為我遇到麻煩了。」剛開始的時候他們根本不想理我，你知道嗎？就像說：「聽好，如果妳是不滿意妳的鞋子的話，抱歉，那也來不及了。」「不，不，不，我的腳比較特殊，好嗎？我需要一雙兩吋的高跟鞋。可是我手上這雙是三吋高。我得把鞋跟弄短一點。」好啦，你知道嗎，他們根本不想過來看。他們連碰都不想碰那雙鞋。不過最後他們還是幫了我。其實這些腿真的很棒。我正想......其實再過兩個禮拜我正要回這家公司去把義肢做一些修改。我要去找那種作成平底的腿，那樣我就可以穿運動鞋了，因為現在這些腿都沒辦法穿運動鞋。所以......主持人：時間差不多了。 雀麗爾：這是艾美．穆林斯。 （掌聲）"
