Talk	en	zh-tw
aimee_mullins_the_opportunity_of_adversity	"I'd like to share with you a discovery that I made a few months ago while writing an article for Italian Wired. I always keep my thesaurus handy whenever I'm writing anything, but I'd already finished editing the piece, and I realized that I had never once in my life looked up the word ""disabled"" to see what I'd find. Let me read you the entry. ""Disabled, adjective: crippled, helpless, useless, wrecked, stalled, maimed, wounded, mangled, lame, mutilated, run-down, worn-out, weakened, impotent, castrated, paralyzed, handicapped, senile, decrepit, laid-up, done-up, done-for, done-in cracked-up, counted-out; see also hurt, useless and weak. Antonyms, healthy, strong, capable."" I was reading this list out loud to a friend and at first was laughing, it was so ludicrous, but I'd just gotten past ""mangled,"" and my voice broke, and I had to stop and collect myself from the emotional shock and impact that the assault from these words unleashed. You know, of course, this is my raggedy old thesaurus so I'm thinking this must be an ancient print date, right? But, in fact, the print date was the early 1980s, when I would have been starting primary school and forming an understanding of myself outside the family unit and as related to the other kids and the world around me. And, needless to say, thank God I wasn't using a thesaurus back then. I mean, from this entry, it would seem that I was born into a world that perceived someone like me to have nothing positive whatsoever going for them, when in fact, today I'm celebrated for the opportunities and adventures my life has procured. So, I immediately went to look up the 2009 online edition, expecting to find a revision worth noting. Here's the updated version of this entry. Unfortunately, it's not much better. I find the last two words under ""Near Antonyms,"" particularly unsettling: ""whole"" and ""wholesome."" So, it's not just about the words. It's what we believe about people when we name them with these words. It's about the values behind the words, and how we construct those values. Our language affects our thinking and how we view the world and how we view other people. In fact, many ancient societies, including the Greeks and the Romans, believed that to utter a curse verbally was so powerful, because to say the thing out loud brought it into existence. So, what reality do we want to call into existence: a person who is limited, or a person who's empowered? By casually doing something as simple as naming a person, a child, we might be putting lids and casting shadows on their power. Wouldn't we want to open doors for them instead? One such person who opened doors for me was my childhood doctor at the A.I. duPont Institute in Wilmington, Delaware. His name was Dr. Pizzutillo, an Italian American, whose name, apparently, was too difficult for most Americans to pronounce, so he went by Dr. P. And Dr. P always wore really colorful bow ties and had the very perfect disposition to work with children. I loved almost everything about my time spent at this hospital, with the exception of my physical therapy sessions. I had to do what seemed like innumerable repetitions of exercises with these thick, elastic bands — different colors, you know — to help build up my leg muscles, and I hated these bands more than anything — I hated them, had names for them. I hated them. And, you know, I was already bargaining, as a five year-old child, with Dr. P to try to get out of doing these exercises, unsuccessfully, of course. And, one day, he came in to my session — exhaustive and unforgiving, these sessions — and he said to me, ""Wow. Aimee, you are such a strong and powerful little girl, I think you're going to break one of those bands. When you do break it, I'm going to give you a hundred bucks."" Now, of course, this was a simple ploy on Dr. P's part to get me to do the exercises I didn't want to do before the prospect of being the richest five-year-old in the second floor ward, but what he effectively did for me was reshape an awful daily occurrence into a new and promising experience for me. And I have to wonder today to what extent his vision and his declaration of me as a strong and powerful little girl shaped my own view of myself as an inherently strong, powerful and athletic person well into the future. This is an example of how adults in positions of power can ignite the power of a child. But, in the previous instances of those thesaurus entries, our language isn't allowing us to evolve into the reality that we would all want, the possibility of an individual to see themselves as capable. Our language hasn't caught up with the changes in our society, many of which have been brought about by technology. Certainly, from a medical standpoint, my legs, laser surgery for vision impairment, titanium knees and hip replacements for aging bodies that are allowing people to more fully engage with their abilities, and move beyond the limits that nature has imposed on them — not to mention social networking platforms allow people to self-identify, to claim their own descriptions of themselves, so they can go align with global groups of their own choosing. So, perhaps technology is revealing more clearly to us now what has always been a truth: that everyone has something rare and powerful to offer our society, and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest asset. The human ability to adapt, it's an interesting thing, because people have continually wanted to talk to me about overcoming adversity, and I'm going to make an admission: This phrase never sat right with me, and I always felt uneasy trying to answer people's questions about it, and I think I'm starting to figure out why. Implicit in this phrase of ""overcoming adversity"" is the idea that success, or happiness, is about emerging on the other side of a challenging experience unscathed or unmarked by the experience, as if my successes in life have come about from an ability to sidestep or circumnavigate the presumed pitfalls of a life with prosthetics, or what other people perceive as my disability. But, in fact, we are changed. We are marked, of course, by a challenge, whether physically, emotionally or both. And I'm going to suggest that this is a good thing. Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life. It's part of our life. And I tend to think of it like my shadow. Sometimes I see a lot of it, sometimes there's very little, but it's always with me. And, certainly, I'm not trying to diminish the impact, the weight, of a person's struggle. There is adversity and challenge in life, and it's all very real and relative to every single person, but the question isn't whether or not you're going to meet adversity, but how you're going to meet it. So, our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity, but preparing them to meet it well. And we do a disservice to our kids when we make them feel that they're not equipped to adapt. There's an important difference and distinction between the objective medical fact of my being an amputee and the subjective societal opinion of whether or not I'm disabled. And, truthfully, the only real and consistent disability I've had to confront is the world ever thinking that I could be described by those definitions. In our desire to protect those we care about by giving them the cold, hard truth about their medical prognosis, or, indeed, a prognosis on the expected quality of their life, we have to make sure that we don't put the first brick in a wall that will actually disable someone. Perhaps the existing model of only looking at what is broken in you and how do we fix it, serves to be more disabling to the individual than the pathology itself. By not treating the wholeness of a person, by not acknowledging their potency, we are creating another ill on top of whatever natural struggle they might have. We are effectively grading someone's worth to our community. So we need to see through the pathology and into the range of human capability. And, most importantly, there's a partnership between those perceived deficiencies and our greatest creative ability. So it's not about devaluing, or negating, these more trying times as something we want to avoid or sweep under the rug, but instead to find those opportunities wrapped in the adversity. So maybe the idea I want to put out there is not so much overcoming adversity as it is opening ourselves up to it, embracing it, grappling with it, to use a wrestling term, maybe even dancing with it. And, perhaps, if we see adversity as natural, consistent and useful, we're less burdened by the presence of it. This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin, and it was 150 years ago, when writing about evolution, that Darwin illustrated, I think, a truth about the human character. To paraphrase: It's not the strongest of the species that survives, nor is it the most intelligent that survives; it is the one that is most adaptable to change. Conflict is the genesis of creation. From Darwin's work, amongst others, we can recognize that the human ability to survive and flourish is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict into transformation. So, again, transformation, adaptation, is our greatest human skill. And, perhaps, until we're tested, we don't know what we're made of. Maybe that's what adversity gives us: a sense of self, a sense of our own power. So, we can give ourselves a gift. We can re-imagine adversity as something more than just tough times. Maybe we can see it as change. Adversity is just change that we haven't adapted ourselves to yet. I think the greatest adversity that we've created for ourselves is this idea of normalcy. Now, who's normal? There's no normal. There's common, there's typical. There's no normal, and would you want to meet that poor, beige person if they existed? (Laughter) I don't think so. If we can change this paradigm from one of achieving normalcy to one of possibility — or potency, to be even a little bit more dangerous — we can release the power of so many more children, and invite them to engage their rare and valuable abilities with the community. Anthropologists tell us that the one thing we as humans have always required of our community members is to be of use, to be able to contribute. There's evidence that Neanderthals, 60,000 years ago, carried their elderly and those with serious physical injury, and perhaps it's because the life experience of survival of these people proved of value to the community. They didn't view these people as broken and useless; they were seen as rare and valuable. A few years ago, I was in a food market in the town where I grew up in that red zone in northeastern Pennsylvania, and I was standing over a bushel of tomatoes. It was summertime: I had shorts on. I hear this guy, his voice behind me say, ""Well, if it isn't Aimee Mullins."" And I turn around, and it's this older man. I have no idea who he is. And I said, ""I'm sorry, sir, have we met? I don't remember meeting you."" He said, ""Well, you wouldn't remember meeting me. I mean, when we met I was delivering you from your mother's womb."" (Laughter) Oh, that guy. And, but of course, actually, it did click. This man was Dr. Kean, a man that I had only known about through my mother's stories of that day, because, of course, typical fashion, I arrived late for my birthday by two weeks. And so my mother's prenatal physician had gone on vacation, so the man who delivered me was a complete stranger to my parents. And, because I was born without the fibula bones, and had feet turned in, and a few toes in this foot and a few toes in that, he had to be the bearer — this stranger had to be the bearer of bad news. He said to me, ""I had to give this prognosis to your parents that you would never walk, and you would never have the kind of mobility that other kids have or any kind of life of independence, and you've been making liar out of me ever since."" (Laughter) (Applause) The extraordinary thing is that he said he had saved newspaper clippings throughout my whole childhood, whether winning a second grade spelling bee, marching with the Girl Scouts, you know, the Halloween parade, winning my college scholarship, or any of my sports victories, and he was using it, and integrating it into teaching resident students, med students from Hahnemann Medical School and Hershey Medical School. And he called this part of the course the X Factor, the potential of the human will. No prognosis can account for how powerful this could be as a determinant in the quality of someone's life. And Dr. Kean went on to tell me, he said, ""In my experience, unless repeatedly told otherwise, and even if given a modicum of support, if left to their own devices, a child will achieve."" See, Dr. Kean made that shift in thinking. He understood that there's a difference between the medical condition and what someone might do with it. And there's been a shift in my thinking over time, in that, if you had asked me at 15 years old, if I would have traded prosthetics for flesh-and-bone legs, I wouldn't have hesitated for a second. I aspired to that kind of normalcy back then. But if you ask me today, I'm not so sure. And it's because of the experiences I've had with them, not in spite of the experiences I've had with them. And perhaps this shift in me has happened because I've been exposed to more people who have opened doors for me than those who have put lids and cast shadows on me. See, all you really need is one person to show you the epiphany of your own power, and you're off. If you can hand somebody the key to their own power — the human spirit is so receptive — if you can do that and open a door for someone at a crucial moment, you are educating them in the best sense. You're teaching them to open doors for themselves. In fact, the exact meaning of the word ""educate"" comes from the root word ""educe."" It means ""to bring forth what is within, to bring out potential."" So again, which potential do we want to bring out? There was a case study done in 1960s Britain, when they were moving from grammar schools to comprehensive schools. It's called the streaming trials. We call it ""tracking"" here in the States. It's separating students from A, B, C, D and so on. And the ""A students"" get the tougher curriculum, the best teachers, etc. Well, they took, over a three-month period, D-level students, gave them A's, told them they were ""A's,"" told them they were bright, and at the end of this three-month period, they were performing at A-level. And, of course, the heartbreaking, flip side of this study, is that they took the ""A students"" and told them they were ""D's."" And that's what happened at the end of that three-month period. Those who were still around in school, besides the people who had dropped out. A crucial part of this case study was that the teachers were duped too. The teachers didn't know a switch had been made. They were simply told, ""These are the 'A-students,' these are the 'D-students.'"" And that's how they went about teaching them and treating them. So, I think that the only true disability is a crushed spirit, a spirit that's been crushed doesn't have hope, it doesn't see beauty, it no longer has our natural, childlike curiosity and our innate ability to imagine. If instead, we can bolster a human spirit to keep hope, to see beauty in themselves and others, to be curious and imaginative, then we are truly using our power well. When a spirit has those qualities, we are able to create new realities and new ways of being. I'd like to leave you with a poem by a fourteenth-century Persian poet named Hafiz that my friend, Jacques Dembois told me about, and the poem is called ""The God Who Only Knows Four Words"": ""Every child has known God, not the God of names, not the God of don'ts, but the God who only knows four words and keeps repeating them, saying, 'Come dance with me. Come, dance with me. Come, dance with me.'"" Thank you. (Applause)"	我想和大家分享我幾個月前的發現那時候我在幫義大利的「Wired」雜誌寫文章我寫作的時候總是有「同義詞字典」在手邊我已經完成編輯文章我發現我一生中從沒真正查過「殘障」這個詞 讓我為您朗讀這個條目殘障，形容詞：跛腿、無助、無用、壞掉動彈不得、傷殘、有傷、嚴重損壞、瘸跛、殘缺不全缺乏、筋疲力盡、虛弱、無力、喪失力量、癱瘓、有生理缺陷衰老、破舊、閒置無用、筋疲力竭、沒用、疲累破爛、被擊敗另可參見：受傷、無用、虛弱反義詞：健康、強壯、有能力那時候我大聲讀給朋友聽，一開始我笑了這很荒唐但我在唸過「嚴重損壞」的時候，我哽咽了我必須要停下來，然後鎮定自己從這些詞帶來的情緒上的衝擊和侮辱鎮定自己 當然，這是我舊版的同義詞字典我想，他的印成年份應該很古老，對吧但事實上他成書於1980年代早期那時候我已經上小學了開始產生異於家庭的自我認識也就是其他小孩還有整個世界怎樣看我不用說，感謝老天，我當時沒有用同義詞字典我是說，從這條目來看，我好像是生在一個對我這樣子的人沒有任何正向想法的世界甚至在今天，大家慶祝我已經度過的機運和挑戰的時候 我立刻查了2009年線上版字典希望能找到值得提出來的修改內容以下是這個條目更新版的內容但很不幸，並沒有比較好我覺得在「可能相反詞」條目下最後兩個字最惱人完整的、健全的 所以，重點不是這些字是我們在稱呼這些人時候的心理概念是這些字背後的價值，還有我們如何建構這樣的價值我們的語言影響我們的思考、對外在世界的想法還有我們怎樣看待別人事實上，在很多古老文化中，如希臘、羅馬人們相信朗誦咒語會產生很大的力量因為大聲把話說出來，就會讓它存在所以，我們想大聲朗讀，讓哪種事實存在一個受限制的人，還是一個有能力的人？就這樣簡單的事情，如何去稱呼一個人、小孩我們可能就在他們的能力上設了限、萌生陰影我們不想要為他們開扇門嗎？ 有個人幫我開了心裡的門，他是我小時候的醫生在德拉瓦洲，威名頓市的杜旁醫療中心他的名字是 皮祖提洛 醫生義大利裔美國人，他的名字對一般美國人來說太難唸所以他讓人叫他 皮醫生皮醫生都戴很花的領結而且他個性很適合和小孩相處 我愛每次在那間醫院度過的時光除了物理治療的療程以外我必須重複看似無止盡的運動用很多很厚、各種顏色的伸縮帶為了讓我的腿部肌肉成長我討厭死那些伸縮帶我討厭他們，甚至對著罵髒話，恨死了然後，像普通的五歲小孩一樣，我開始討價還價請皮醫生別再讓我做物理治療當然，沒有成功有一天他來看我的治療過程這些累人又不放過我的療程他對我說：「哇！艾美，你好強壯，好有力氣」「我想你應該會把伸縮帶扯斷」「你扯斷的時候，我會給你一百塊」 現在，當然那是皮醫生的計謀讓我做我不想做的運動讓我有機會變成二樓病房最有錢的五歲女孩但他真正做的是，將我每天都要面對的糟糕事情變成一個全新而且充滿希望的經驗我今天想，到底他的遠見他告訴我的，我是小小女大力士的這些話影響我對自己的看法有多深說我強壯、有力氣、會運動的這些話湧進我的未來 這就是個有正向力量的成年人如何引發小孩力量的例子但是，看過先前舉過那些同義詞字典中的條目我們的語言，讓我們無法變成自己心理真正想要的模樣不允許一個人認為自己擁有能力我們的語言還沒趕上我們社會的變動許多科技帶來的變動當然，從醫學的角度我的雙腳、修復視力受損的雷射手術鈦製的人工膝蓋，還有老人家的人工髖關節這些都讓人能完全發揮他們的能力突破大自然在他們身上所設的限制更別說是社交網路平台讓人們可以自我定義、替自己下注解這樣他們就能和自己選擇的朋友齊步並驅所以，也許科技讓我們更清楚的了解那些從來就是對的事情每個人都能提供我們的社會一些獨特或有力的事情以及人類的適應能力是我們對重要的資產 人類的適應能力是一件有趣的事很多人都問我如何戰勝先天的不幸我坦白說「不幸」一直不適用在我身上一直必需回答這些問題也讓我很不舒服我想我已經開始知道為什麼了「戰勝不幸」裡面隱含的是成功、幸福的這種概念是困難經驗的反面不會因為經驗本身而改變好像在說，我的成功是因為我有辦法避開一輩子使用義肢的困難躲過大家視我為殘障的眼光但事實上，我們改變了，我們因為困難改變了不論是身體上、情緒上或是兩者都有我認為改變是一件好事不幸，不是個我們必須繞過才能繼續生活的阻礙它是我們生活的一部分我喜歡把它比喻成我的影子有時候很長，有時候很短但是影子永遠存在我不會想辦法去減少一個人的困難所帶來的衝擊和重量 生命中總是有不幸和困難與每個人都相關而且真實的但問題不是，「要不要」面對你的不幸而是「怎樣」面對所以我們的義務不只是保護我們關心的人不要遭遇不幸而是要讓他們準備好，能夠好好面對不幸我們幫了自己的小孩一個倒忙讓他們覺得自己沒有能力適應在覺得自己是否為殘障的主觀社會想法與自己是否為截肢病患的客觀醫療事實之間存在著很大區別和歧異事實上，我唯一必須要面對的限制是這世界一直認為我應該被那些字歸類 我們想要保護自己所關心的人給他們診斷結果的冰冷事實或者，告知診斷結果會如何影響他們一輩子時我們必須確保自己不是鋪下建牆的第一塊磚那樣我們會真的讓一個人殘廢我們只看見殘缺的部分，還有要怎樣去修復這樣的模式只會讓人更加殘廢遠大於本身的病理條件 因為不把一個人當成「整體」看待因為不承認他們的潛力我們就讓他們天生不足的部分更不足我們為了效率的評斷一個人對社會的價值所以我們直接看他們有沒有病症直接看他們有什麼能力最重要的，還有一種聯合關係那是感受到的殘缺和我們最佳創造能力的關係所以這不是在貶低或是否定或我們避免或刻意掩蓋這其實是在尋找那包覆在不幸外衣下的機會所以我想要講的是並沒有很多不幸需要克服只要我們對不幸敞開心胸欣然接納和它搏鬥用個摔角術語也許甚至「與它共舞」也許如果我們認為「不幸」是自然的、連貫的、有用的我們就不會那麼受其煩擾 我們今年慶祝達爾文兩百歲冥誕一百五十年前，當他在準備寫演化論的時候我想，達爾文說了關於人類天性的實話就是說，並不是最強的物種能存活下來也不是最聰明的而是最能適應變化的物種「衝突」是「創新」的開端百家爭鳴中，我們可以從達爾文的理論中得到人類生存和興旺的能力是源於人類奮鬥的精神把衝突轉化再一次，「轉化」、「適應」是我們人類最厲害的技能也許，沒有考驗，我們就不知道自己是什麼做的也許那就是「不幸」帶給我們的自我的感知，自己力量的感知所以我們可以給自己一個禮物我們可以重新想想，不幸其實不只是很困難的情況也許我們可以把它視為改變「不幸」只是我們還沒有適應自己的改變而已 我想，我們為自己設下最大的不幸是「正常」的想法現在，誰是正常的？本來就沒有「正常」只有「常見」、「典型」，沒有「正常」如果有那個可憐、完全沒有特色的人，你會想見他嗎？（笑）我想應該不會吧！如果「成為正常」這樣的規範可以改變變成「有可能」、「有潛力」，或甚至有一點危險我們可以讓孩子們展現他們的力量引領他們在人群中發揮自身稀少而珍貴的能力 人類學家告訴我們我們人類一直要求自己族群中的人要有用、要能貢獻六萬年前的尼安德塔人就是證據他們會扶持年長者還有嚴重傷患也許是因為這些活著的人的生活經驗對整個群體有價值他們不會把這些人視為衰弱無用這些人稀少而且珍貴 幾年前，我在小時候家裡附近的市場逛那在賓洲東北邊那塊紅色區域我站在一堆蕃茄前是夏天，我穿著短袖我聽到一個人在我背後說：「唉唷，這可不是艾美慕林嗎？」我轉身，是一個老人，我不知道他是誰 我說：「不好意思，我們見過面嗎？我不記得見過你」 他說：「恩，你不會記得見過我」「我是說，我們見面的時候，我正把妳從妳媽的子宮接生出來」（笑）阿！那個人！而且當然，我想到了 這個人是金醫師我只從我媽那裡聽過這個人因為，當然像很多人一樣，我比預產期晚兩週才出生我媽的婦產科醫生已經度假去了所以我爸媽完全不認識這個替我接生的人然後，因為我一出生就沒有前小腿骨還有往內凹的腳，一些腳趾在這裡，一些在那裡這個陌生人必須是告訴我們壞消息的人 他跟我說：「我必須告訴你父母醫療評估」「就是你永遠不能走路」「你也不可能像其他小朋友一樣靈活」「或有獨立的人生」「結果從那時候開始，你一直讓我當個大騙子」（笑）（鼓掌） 最特別的事情是他說他一直保留著我整個童年的剪報不管是二年級時候贏的拼字比賽和女童軍一起行軍、萬聖節遊行得到大學獎學金、或是其他的運動勝利他用這些簡報，整合起來教導住院醫學生哈尼曼醫學院和賀許醫學院的醫學生他稱課程的這個部分為「X因素」人類意念的潛力沒有醫療評估能為這強大的力量負責沒辦法成為判斷一個人生活品質的決定因素金醫師繼續告訴我他說：「除非另有相反說法，我的經驗告訴我」「即使只有極少的支持」「不要給小孩任何干預，他們自己就會成功」 你看，金醫師的想法改變了他瞭解在醫療狀況和一個人之後的作為兩者之間有差別我的想法也隨著時間改變如果我十五歲，你問我我願不願意把義肢換成真實血肉的腳我一秒都不會猶豫以前我很渴望這種「正常」如果你現在問我，我不會這麼肯定是因為我有過的這些義肢經驗而不是不要這些經驗也許我的這些改變早就存在了因為我遇過很多為我開門的人而不是那些替我設限，或是把我罩在陰影裡的人 你看，你所需要的只是一個人來帶你領略自己的可能，就好了如果你可以把開啟自己能力的鑰匙交給他人人們很容易感受這種人類精神幫一個人在關鍵時刻開一扇門你就是用最高的智慧在教育他們你教他們幫自己開門事實上，「教育(education)」這個詞的意思來自字根「引出(educe)」意思是把本身有的帶出來帶出潛力我們想要帶出什麼樣的潛力？ 英國1960年代有一個關於學童從小學進到中學的個案研究他們稱串流試驗，在美國叫做追蹤試驗研究把學生分成A、B、C、D等等組別A級學生有比較重的課、最好的老師等等這樣上課超過三個月D級的學生，給他們A告訴他們是A級的學生、很聰明三個月研究期結束後他們就表現出A級的水準 當然令人痛心的是這個研究的另一面就是告訴A級學生他們是D級而研究期結束時他們也表現成D級這是不算後來輟學的，只算那些還在學的學生這研究很重要的一部份是，老師也蒙在鼓裡老師不知道分組結果被掉包他們只是被告知這些是A學生，那些是D學生然後他們就這樣教學生、對待學生 所以我認為真正的殘障是被摧毀的心靈一個被摧毀而沒有希望的心靈看不見美再也沒有我們自然率真的好奇心和我們與生俱來的想像力反之，如果我們能夠支持有希望的心靈來看見自己和他人的美好能好奇、能想像那就是真的有好好使用自己的能力當心靈有那些特質，我們就能夠建立新的現實價值和新的生命方式 我想要送各位一首詩一位十四世紀的波斯詩人海菲茲所作的詩這是我朋友賈克丹波告訴我的一首叫做「那個只懂四個字的神」的詩每個小孩都認識神不是有名字的神不是叫你「不要」的神而是那個只懂四個字的神，一直反覆吟頌的神祂說：「與我共舞！」與我共舞！ 謝謝(鼓掌)
