Talk	en	zh-tw
aj_jacobs_how_healthy_living_nearly_killed_me	"I've spent the last decade subjecting myself to pain and humiliation, hopefully for a good cause, which is self-improvement. And I've done this in three parts. So first I started with the mind. And I decided to try to get smarter by reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z — or, more precisely, from ""a-ak"" to ""Zywiec."" And here's a little image of that. And this was an amazing year. It was really a fascinating journey. It was painful at times, especially for those around me. My wife started to fine me one dollar for every irrelevant fact I inserted into conversation. So it had its downsides. But after that, I decided to work on the spirit. As I mentioned last year, I grew up with no religion at all. I'm Jewish, but I'm Jewish in the same way the Olive Garden is Italian. (Laughter) Not really. But I decided to learn about the Bible and my heritage by actually diving in and trying to live it and immerse myself in it. So I decided to follow all the rules of the Bible. And from the Ten Commandments to growing my beard — because Leviticus says you cannot shave. So this is what I looked like by the end. Thank you for that reaction. (Laughter) I look a little like Moses, or Ted Kaczynski. I got both of them. So there was the topiary there. And there's the sheep. Now the final part of the trilogy was I wanted to focus on the body and try to be the healthiest person I could be, the healthiest person alive. So that's what I've been doing the last couple of years. And I just finished a couple of months ago. And I have to say, thank God. Because living so healthily was killing me. (Laughter) It was so overwhelming, because the amount of things you have to do, it's just mind-boggling. I was listening to all the experts and talking to sort of a board of medical advisers. And they were telling me all the things I had to do. I had to eat right, exercise, meditate, pet dogs, because that lowers the blood pressure. I wrote the book on a treadmill, and it took me about a thousand miles to write the book. I had to put on sunscreen. This was no small feat, because if you listen to dermatologists, they say that you should have a shot glass full of sunscreen. And you have to reapply it every two to four hours. So I think half of my book advance went into sunscreen. I was like a glazed doughnut for most of the year. There was the washing of hands. I had to do that properly. And my immunologist told me that I should also wipe down all of the remote controls and iPhones in my house, because those are just orgies of germs. So that took a lot of time. I also tried to be the safest person I could be, because that's a part of health. I was inspired by the Danish Safety Council. They started a public campaign that says, ""A walking helmet is a good helmet."" So they believe you should not just wear helmets for biking, but also for walking around. And you can see there they're shopping with their helmets. (Laughter) Well yeah, I tried that. Now it's a little extreme, I admit. But if you think about this, this is actually — the ""Freakonomics"" authors wrote about this — that more people die on a per mile basis from drunk walking than from drunk driving. So something to think about tonight if you've had a couple. So I finished, and it was a success in a sense. All of the markers went in the right direction. My cholesterol went down, I lost weight, my wife stopped telling me that I looked pregnant. So that was nice. And it was successful overall. But I also learned that I was too healthy, and that was unhealthy. I was so focused on doing all these things that I was neglecting my friends and family. And as Dan Buettner can tell you, having a strong social network is so crucial to our health. So I finished. And I kind of went overboard on the week after the project was over. I went to the dark side, and I just indulged myself. It was like something out of Caligula. (Laughter) Without the sex part. Because I have three young kids, so that wasn't happening. But the over-eating and over-drinking, definitely. And I finally have stabilized. So now I'm back to adopting many — not all; I don't wear a helmet anymore — but dozens of healthy behaviors that I adopted during my year. It was really a life-changing project. And I, of course, don't have time to go into all of them. Let me just tell you two really quickly. The first is — and this was surprising to me; I didn't expect this to come out — but I live a much quieter life now. Because we live in such a noisy world. There's trains and planes and cars and Bill O'Reilly, he's very noisy. (Laughter) And this is a real underestimated, under-appreciated health hazard — not just because it harms our hearing, which it obviously does, but it actually initiates the fight-or-flight response. A loud noise will get your fight-or-flight response going. And this, over the years, can cause real damage, cardiovascular damage. The World Health Organization just did a big study that they published this year. And it was done in Europe. And they estimated that 1.6 million years of healthy living are lost every year in Europe because of noise pollution. So they think it's actually very deadly. And by the way, it's also terrible for your brain. It really impairs cognition. And our Founding Fathers knew about this. When they wrote the Constitution, they put dirt all over the cobblestones outside the hall so that they could concentrate. So without noise reduction technology, our country would not exist. So as a patriot, I felt it was important to — I wear all the earplugs and the earphones, and it's really improved my life in a surprising and unexpected way. And the second point I want to make, the final point, is that — and it's actually been a theme of TEDMED — that joy is so important to your health, that very few of these behaviors will stick with me unless there's some sense of pleasure and joy in them. And just to give you one instance of this: food. The junk food industry is really great at pressing our pleasure buttons and figuring out what's the most pleasurable. But I think we can use their techniques and apply them to healthy food. To give just one example, we love crunchiness, mouthfeel. So I basically have tried to incorporate crunchiness into a lot of my recipes — throw in some sunflower seeds. And you can almost trick yourself into thinking you're eating Doritos. (Laughter) And it has made me a healthier person. So that is it. The book about it comes out in April. It's called ""Drop Dead Healthy."" And I hope that I don't get sick during the book tour. That's my greatest hope. So thank you very much. (Applause)"	我花了過去十年在令自己遭受痛苦和屈辱，希望是一個好的因由,便是自我改良。有三個部分。首先，我由腦部開始。我嘗試變得更聰明,我決定閱讀整本大英百科全書,從A到Z—或者更確切地說，由「A-AK」到「Zywiec」。這裡便是一張圖像。這是了不起的一年。真是一個迷人的旅程。有時是痛苦的，特別是對我身邊的人。我的妻子開始每到我們談話中我插入不相關的知識事實，便我罰我一美元。因此，這個過程有它的缺點。 在那個過程之後，我決定把工作集注在精神上。正如我去年提到，我從小沒有宗教。我是猶太人，但我的猶太人作風差不多是如同Olive Garden是意大利的象徵。（笑聲）差不多不是。不過，我決定探悉聖經和我的文化以實在置身於其中,嘗試把自己沉浸在這種生活方式。因此我決定按照聖經的所有規則。從十誡到鬍子的增長—因為利未記說你可以不刮鬍子。這便是我在最終的樣子。謝謝你們這樣的反應。（笑聲）我看有點像摩西或特德卡欽斯基(大學炸彈客)。我捕捉到了他們兩人的影子。因此便有了修剪。還有羊。 現在是三部曲的最後一部分，我想著重身體,我想成為在我能力之內最健康,成為活著最健康的人。所以這是我過去兩年一直在做的事情。我剛剛在兩個月前完成。我必須說，感謝上帝。因為健康的生活是要命的。（笑聲）它是這樣鋪天蓋地，因為你所要做的事情的數量，是令人難以置信。我聽着所有專家的建言和與一組委員會的醫療顧問交談。他們告訴我我所有要做的事情。我要吃得健康，要運動，打坐，寵愛狗，因為這可以降低血壓。我在跑步機上寫這本書，我寫這本書花了約一千哩。我要塗好防曬霜。這是一個不小的壯舉，因為如果你要聽皮膚科醫生的話，他們說你應該要塗上一個烈酒杯份量的防曬霜。你必須每兩到四個小時重新搽上。我認為我寫書預支付款的一半都是花費在防曬霜上。我當時一年中大部分時間都看起來像釉面甜甜圈。還有洗手。我不得不正確做。我的免疫學家告訴我，我應要擦拭我家的所有的遙控器和iPhone，因為這些是細菌酒池肉林的地方。這花了很多時間。 我亦想試過當最安全的人，因為這是健康的一部分。我的靈感來自丹麥安全局。他們啟動了一個公開活動，說：「步行頭盔是一個很好的頭盔。」他們相信你不應該只是在騎自行車時佩戴頭盔，走路時都應戴頭盔。你可以看到他們一邊戴着頭盔一邊購物。（笑聲）是啊，我試過了。我承認, 這是有點極端。但是，如果你想想，這實際上是 — 〈魔鬼經濟學〉作者對此寫道 —死於酒後醉着走的人每英里基礎上比酒後駕車死去的人更多。因此這是你今晚需要想想的，如果你喝了一兩杯的話。 所以我完成了，在某些意義上它是成功的。所有的里程碑都是向着正確的方向。我的膽固醇降低，我減去了重量，我的妻子不再告訴我看起來像懷孕。所以這是很好的。整體來說它是成功的。但我也了解到我太健康，而這是不健康的。我是如此專注於做所有這些事情，我忽視了我的朋友和家人。Dan Buettner可以告訴你，擁有一個強大的社交網絡，對我們的健康至關重要。 所以我終止了。我在項目結束後的一週實在有些過火。我墮進了黑暗的一面，我只是放縱着自己。就像出於卡里古拉(羅馬帝國艷情史)的東西。（笑聲）沒有性的那部分。因為我有3個年幼的孩子，所以那部分沒有發生。但過量進食和過度飲酒，絕對有。我終於進入了穩定。我現在重返採取許多 — 不是所有的，我不戴頭盔了 —但数十個我在我一年中採取的健康行為。它實際上是一個改變生活的項目。而我當然沒有時間深入說明所有。讓我很快的告訴你們其中兩個。 首先是 — 這是我感到驚訝的，我完全沒有想到這個 —但我現在是有一個更安靜的生活。因為我們是生活在這樣一個嘈雜的世界裡。有火車和飛機，汽車和Bill O'Reilly，他非常嘈雜。（笑聲）這是一個真正被低估和不被重視的健康危害問題—不僅是因為它顯然是損害我們的聽力，但它實際上是發起了攻擊或逃離的反應機制。一聲巨響會讓你的戰鬥或逃跑反應揭發出來。而多年來, 這一點可以造成真正的損害，心血管損害。世界衛生組織剛做了一個大型的研究，今年出版的。在歐洲進行。他們估計，每年在歐洲噪音污染令160萬年的健康生活失去。所以他們認為它實際上是非常致命的。 順便說一下，它對你的大腦也是可怕的。它真正損害認知能力。而我們的開國元勳們知道這一點。當他們在寫憲法，他們把大廳會堂外的鵝卵石上覆蓋着泥土，使他們可以集中精力。因此，假如沒有降噪技術，我們的國家便不會存在。因此，作為一個愛國者，我覺得這是非常重要的 —我戴着所有耳塞和耳機，它以驚訝和意想不到的方式，真正改善了我的生活。 第二點，最後一點，我想說的是 —它實際上是一個TEDMED的主題 —喜樂是對你的健康非常重要的，這些行為很少會讓我堅持，除非它們有某種意義的樂趣和喜悅。給你這方面的一個實例：食物。垃圾食品行業是真正精巧的能夠弄清楚什麼是最有樂趣的，以至可以觸及我們的快樂按鈕。但我認為我們可以利用他們的技術應用在健康食品上。舉一個例子，我們愛脆的口感。所以我基本上嘗試將我的食譜納入了很多脆的東西 —加入一些葵花籽。你幾乎可以欺騙自己，以為你在吃多力多滋。（笑聲）它便使我成為一個更健康的人。 就是這樣。關於它的書在4月發行。稱為〈Drop Dead Healthy〉(健康砸不死)。我希望我不會在書宣傳期間病倒。這是我最大的希望。 非常感謝你們。 (掌聲)
