Talk	en	zh-tw
al_gore_s_new_thinking_on_the_climate_crisis	"I have given the slide show that I gave here two years ago about 2,000 times. I'm giving a short slide show this morning that I'm giving for the very first time, so — well it's — I don't want or need to raise the bar, I'm actually trying to lower the bar. Because I've cobbled this together to try to meet the challenge of this session. And I was reminded by Karen Armstrong's fantastic presentation that religion really properly understood is not about belief, but about behavior. Perhaps we should say the same thing about optimism. How dare we be optimistic? Optimism is sometimes characterized as a belief, an intellectual posture. As Mahatma Gandhi famously said, ""You must become the change you wish to see in the world."" And the outcome about which we wish to be optimistic is not going to be created by the belief alone, except to the extent that the belief brings about new behavior. But the word ""behavior"" is also, I think, sometimes misunderstood in this context. I'm a big advocate of changing the lightbulbs and buying hybrids, and Tipper and I put 33 solar panels on our house, and dug the geothermal wells, and did all of that other stuff. But, as important as it is to change the lightbulbs, it is more important to change the laws. And when we change our behavior in our daily lives, we sometimes leave out the citizenship part and the democracy part. In order to be optimistic about this, we have to become incredibly active as citizens in our democracy. In order to solve the climate crisis, we have to solve the democracy crisis. And we have one. I have been trying to tell this story for a long time. I was reminded of that recently, by a woman who walked past the table I was sitting at, just staring at me as she walked past. She was in her 70s, looked like she had a kind face. I thought nothing of it until I saw from the corner of my eye she was walking from the opposite direction, also just staring at me. And so I said, ""How do you do?"" And she said, ""You know, if you dyed your hair black, you would look just like Al Gore."" (Laughter) Many years ago, when I was a young congressman, I spent an awful lot of time dealing with the challenge of nuclear arms control — the nuclear arms race. And the military historians taught me, during that quest, that military conflicts are typically put into three categories: local battles, regional or theater wars, and the rare but all-important global, world war — strategic conflicts. And each level of conflict requires a different allocation of resources, a different approach, a different organizational model. Environmental challenges fall into the same three categories, and most of what we think about are local environmental problems: air pollution, water pollution, hazardous waste dumps. But there are also regional environmental problems, like acid rain from the Midwest to the Northeast, and from Western Europe to the Arctic, and from the Midwest out the Mississippi into the dead zone of the Gulf of Mexico. And there are lots of those. But the climate crisis is the rare but all-important global, or strategic, conflict. Everything is affected. And we have to organize our response appropriately. We need a worldwide, global mobilization for renewable energy, conservation, efficiency and a global transition to a low-carbon economy. We have work to do. And we can mobilize resources and political will. But the political will has to be mobilized, in order to mobilize the resources. Let me show you these slides here. I thought I would start with the logo. What's missing here, of course, is the North Polar ice cap. Greenland remains. Twenty-eight years ago, this is what the polar ice cap — the North Polar ice cap — looked like at the end of the summer, at the fall equinox. This last fall, I went to the Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado, and talked to the researchers here in Monterey at the Naval Postgraduate Laboratory. This is what's happened in the last 28 years. To put it in perspective, 2005 was the previous record. Here's what happened last fall that has really unnerved the researchers. The North Polar ice cap is the same size geographically — doesn't look quite the same size — but it is exactly the same size as the United States, minus an area roughly equal to the state of Arizona. The amount that disappeared in 2005 was equivalent to everything east of the Mississippi. The extra amount that disappeared last fall was equivalent to this much. It comes back in the winter, but not as permanent ice, as thin ice — vulnerable. The amount remaining could be completely gone in summer in as little as five years. That puts a lot of pressure on Greenland. Already, around the Arctic Circle — this is a famous village in Alaska. This is a town in Newfoundland. Antarctica. Latest studies from NASA. The amount of a moderate-to-severe snow melting of an area equivalent to the size of California. ""They were the best of times, they were the worst of times"": the most famous opening sentence in English literature. I want to share briefly a tale of two planets. Earth and Venus are exactly the same size. Earth's diameter is about 400 kilometers larger, but essentially the same size. They have exactly the same amount of carbon. But the difference is, on Earth, most of the carbon has been leeched over time out of the atmosphere, deposited in the ground as coal, oil, natural gas, etc. On Venus, most of it is in the atmosphere. The difference is that our temperature is 59 degrees on average. On Venus, it's 855. This is relevant to our current strategy of taking as much carbon out of the ground as quickly as possible, and putting it into the atmosphere. It's not because Venus is slightly closer to the Sun. It's three times hotter than Mercury, which is right next to the Sun. Now, briefly, here's an image you've seen, as one of the only old images, but I show it because I want to briefly give you CSI: Climate. The global scientific community says: man-made global warming pollution, put into the atmosphere, thickening this, is trapping more of the outgoing infrared. You all know that. At the last IPCC summary, the scientists wanted to say, ""How certain are you?"" They wanted to answer that ""99 percent."" The Chinese objected, and so the compromise was ""more than 90 percent."" Now, the skeptics say, ""Oh, wait a minute, this could be variations in this energy coming in from the sun."" If that were true, the stratosphere would be heated as well as the lower atmosphere, if it's more coming in. If it's more being trapped on the way out, then you would expect it to be warmer here and cooler here. Here is the lower atmosphere. Here's the stratosphere: cooler. CSI: Climate. Now, here's the good news. Sixty-eight percent of Americans now believe that human activity is responsible for global warming. Sixty-nine percent believe that the Earth is heating up in a significant way. There has been progress, but here is the key: when given a list of challenges to confront, global warming is still listed at near the bottom. What is missing is a sense of urgency. If you agree with the factual analysis, but you don't feel the sense of urgency, where does that leave you? Well, the Alliance for Climate Protection, which I head in conjunction with Current TV — who did this pro bono — did a worldwide contest to do commercials on how to communicate this. This is the winner. NBC — I'll show all of the networks here — the top journalists for NBC asked 956 questions in 2007 of the presidential candidates: two of them were about the climate crisis. ABC: 844 questions, two about the climate crisis. Fox: two. CNN: two. CBS: zero. From laughs to tears — this is one of the older tobacco commercials. So here's what we're doing. This is gasoline consumption in all of these countries. And us. But it's not just the developed nations. The developing countries are now following us and accelerating their pace. And actually, their cumulative emissions this year are the equivalent to where we were in 1965. And they're catching up very dramatically. The total concentrations: by 2025, they will be essentially where we were in 1985. If the wealthy countries were completely missing from the picture, we would still have this crisis. But we have given to the developing countries the technologies and the ways of thinking that are creating the crisis. This is in Bolivia — over thirty years. This is peak fishing in a few seconds. The '60s. '70s. '80s. '90s. We have to stop this. And the good news is that we can. We have the technologies. We have to have a unified view of how to go about this: the struggle against poverty in the world and the challenge of cutting wealthy country emissions, all has a single, very simple solution. People say, ""What's the solution?"" Here it is. Put a price on carbon. We need a CO2 tax, revenue neutral, to replace taxation on employment, which was invented by Bismarck — and some things have changed since the 19th century. In the poor world, we have to integrate the responses to poverty with the solutions to the climate crisis. Plans to fight poverty in Uganda are mooted, if we do not solve the climate crisis. But responses can actually make a huge difference in the poor countries. This is a proposal that has been talked about a lot in Europe. This was from Nature magazine. These are concentrating solar, renewable energy plants, linked in a so-called ""supergrid"" to supply all of the electrical power to Europe, largely from developing countries — high-voltage DC currents. This is not pie in the sky; this can be done. We need to do it for our own economy. The latest figures show that the old model is not working. There are a lot of great investments that you can make. If you are investing in tar sands or shale oil, then you have a portfolio that is crammed with sub-prime carbon assets. And it is based on an old model. Junkies find veins in their toes when the ones in their arms and their legs collapse. Developing tar sands and coal shale is the equivalent. Here are just a few of the investments that I personally think make sense. I have a stake in these, so I'll have a disclaimer there. But geothermal, concentrating solar, advanced photovoltaics, efficiency and conservation. You've seen this slide before, but there's a change. The only two countries that didn't ratify — and now there's only one. Australia had an election. And there was a campaign in Australia that involved television and Internet and radio commercials to lift the sense of urgency for the people there. And we trained 250 people to give the slide show in every town and village and city in Australia. Lot of other things contributed to it, but the new Prime Minister announced that his very first priority would be to change Australia's position on Kyoto, and he has. Now, they came to an awareness partly because of the horrible drought that they have had. This is Lake Lanier. My friend Heidi Cullen said that if we gave droughts names the way we give hurricanes names, we'd call the one in the southeast now Katrina, and we would say it's headed toward Atlanta. We can't wait for the kind of drought Australia had to change our political culture. Here's more good news. The cities supporting Kyoto in the U.S. are up to 780 — and I thought I saw one go by there, just to localize this — which is good news. Now, to close, we heard a couple of days ago about the value of making individual heroism so commonplace that it becomes banal or routine. What we need is another hero generation. Those of us who are alive in the United States of America today especially, but also the rest of the world, have to somehow understand that history has presented us with a choice — just as Jill [Bolte] Taylor was figuring out how to save her life while she was distracted by the amazing experience that she was going through. We now have a culture of distraction. But we have a planetary emergency. And we have to find a way to create, in the generation of those alive today, a sense of generational mission. I wish I could find the words to convey this. This was another hero generation that brought democracy to the planet. Another that ended slavery. And that gave women the right to vote. We can do this. Don't tell me that we don't have the capacity to do it. If we had just one week's worth of what we spend on the Iraq War, we could be well on the way to solving this challenge. We have the capacity to do it. One final point: I'm optimistic, because I believe we have the capacity, at moments of great challenge, to set aside the causes of distraction and rise to the challenge that history is presenting to us. Sometimes I hear people respond to the disturbing facts of the climate crisis by saying, ""Oh, this is so terrible. What a burden we have."" I would like to ask you to reframe that. How many generations in all of human history have had the opportunity to rise to a challenge that is worthy of our best efforts? A challenge that can pull from us more than we knew we could do? I think we ought to approach this challenge with a sense of profound joy and gratitude that we are the generation about which, a thousand years from now, philharmonic orchestras and poets and singers will celebrate by saying, they were the ones that found it within themselves to solve this crisis and lay the basis for a bright and optimistic human future. Let's do that. Thank you very much. Chris Anderson: For so many people at TED, there is deep pain that basically a design issue on a voting form — one bad design issue meant that your voice wasn't being heard like that in the last eight years in a position where you could make these things come true. That hurts. Al Gore: You have no idea. (Laughter) CA: When you look at what the leading candidates in your own party are doing now — I mean, there's — are you excited by their plans on global warming? AG: The answer to the question is hard for me because, on the one hand, I think that we should feel really great about the fact that the Republican nominee — certain nominee — John McCain, and both of the finalists for the Democratic nomination — all three have a very different and forward-leaning position on the climate crisis. All three have offered leadership, and all three are very different from the approach taken by the current administration. And I think that all three have also been responsible in putting forward plans and proposals. But the campaign dialogue that — as illustrated by the questions — that was put together by the League of Conservation Voters, by the way, the analysis of all the questions — and, by the way, the debates have all been sponsored by something that goes by the Orwellian label, ""Clean Coal."" Has anybody noticed that? Every single debate has been sponsored by ""Clean Coal."" ""Now, even lower emissions!"" The richness and fullness of the dialogue in our democracy has not laid the basis for the kind of bold initiative that is really needed. So they're saying the right things and they may — whichever of them is elected — may do the right thing, but let me tell you: when I came back from Kyoto in 1997, with a feeling of great happiness that we'd gotten that breakthrough there, and then confronted the United States Senate, only one out of 100 senators was willing to vote to confirm, to ratify that treaty. Whatever the candidates say has to be laid alongside what the people say. This challenge is part of the fabric of our whole civilization. CO2 is the exhaling breath of our civilization, literally. And now we mechanized that process. Changing that pattern requires a scope, a scale, a speed of change that is beyond what we have done in the past. So that's why I began by saying, be optimistic in what you do, but be an active citizen. Demand — change the light bulbs, but change the laws. Change the global treaties. We have to speak up. We have to solve this democracy — this — We have sclerosis in our democracy. And we have to change that. Use the Internet. Go on the Internet. Connect with people. Become very active as citizens. Have a moratorium — we shouldn't have any new coal-fired generating plants that aren't able to capture and store CO2, which means we have to quickly build these renewable sources. Now, nobody is talking on that scale. But I do believe that between now and November, it is possible. This Alliance for Climate Protection is going to launch a nationwide campaign — grassroots mobilization, television ads, Internet ads, radio, newspaper — with partnerships with everybody from the Girl Scouts to the hunters and fishermen. We need help. We need help. CA: In terms of your own personal role going forward, Al, is there something more than that you would like to be doing? AG: I have prayed that I would be able to find the answer to that question. What can I do? Buckminster Fuller once wrote, ""If the future of all human civilization depended on me, what would I do? How would I be?"" It does depend on all of us, but again, not just with the light bulbs. We, most of us here, are Americans. We have a democracy. We can change things, but we have to actively change. What's needed really is a higher level of consciousness. And that's hard to — that's hard to create — but it is coming. There's an old African proverb that some of you know that says, ""If you want to go quickly, go alone; if you want to go far, go together."" We have to go far, quickly. So we have to have a change in consciousness. A change in commitment. A new sense of urgency. A new appreciation for the privilege that we have of undertaking this challenge. CA: Al Gore, thank you so much for coming to TED. AG: Thank you. Thank you very much."	兩年前，我在這裡講過一場演講，後來，同樣的內容我大概又講了2000次今天早上的投影片內容可是我頭一次講的我這樣說，並非想提高標準其實我是想降低標準。因為，我東拼西湊了這些資料來配合今天的演講場合。 我不禁想起了凱倫‧阿姆斯壯( Karen Armstrong) 曾說過宗教，恰當地來說，其實非關人類的信仰而是人類的行為。或許，我們也該如此看待「樂觀」這件事。我們怎敢說自己是樂觀派呢？樂觀，有時被當成一種信仰，一種理智的態度誠如印度國父甘地所言，「你希望世界變成什麼樣子，你自己要先成為那個樣子」我們想要樂觀，可是樂觀並不會因為我們想要而自動產生除非我們的想法，某個程度上可以帶來新的行為，但是「行為」這個字眼我覺得，有時候在這種情況下會被誤解我是大力贊成換省電燈泡還有開油電車的人，我和太太一同幫家裡裝了 33 片太陽能板，也開挖地熱井，還有做了許多其他類似的事情。雖然，換省電燈泡很重要，但是，修訂法條更重要。當我們在改變每天的行為模式時，卻忘了我們還有公民權利還有民主制度，為了要可以真正樂觀，我們必須更積極扮演好我們的公民角色。要解決地球的氣候危機，我們要先解決我們的民主危機。我們的民主真的有危機。 這個故事我已經講過很多次了。最近有位女士又讓我想起這個故事我那時坐著，她走過我的旁邊她一直盯著我看，年紀大約七十來歲她看起來很和藹，我本來也不以為意後來我從眼睛的餘光看到她她從對面方向朝我走來，她還是一直盯著我看，於是，我跟她說：「您好！」然後，她就說：「你知道嗎？如果你把頭髮染黑你看起來就像高爾副總統。」（哄堂大笑） 多年前，我還是個年輕的國會議員那時我花了好多時間處理核武限制、核武競賽的問題。在那段期間，軍事專家告訴我軍事衝突基本上分為三大類局部戰事、區域戰爭以及罕見但嚴重的世界大戰戰略性衝突。不同衝突階段需要不同的資源分配不同的兵法以及不同的組織形態環保的挑戰同樣也可以分成這三類目前大部分人的想法都停留在局部的環保問題：空氣污染、水污染有害廢棄物棄置等。但是還有區域的環保問題，像是酸雨從中西部到東北部，從西歐到北極從中西部密西西比以外到墨西哥灣的死區。這類區域環保問題太多了，但是氣候危機是屬於罕見而嚴重的全球性問題是戰略性的衝突。全球無一倖免！大家必須組織動員起來一起好好面對這個問題，我們需要全球動員找尋再生能源，保護地球資源，提升效能全世界一起轉型成「低碳經濟」。我們有好多事情要做，我們可以動員各種資源包括政治力，但政治力要先動員起來才能有效動員其他資源 我來給大家看些投影片我想就從這個LOGO開始，這裡已經消失的當然，就是北極冰帽格林蘭還在，28年前，這裡還是極地冰帽北極冰帽看起來是夏末秋分的時節。這是去年秋天，我去冰雪資料中心在科羅拉多的博爾德市，向研究人員演講這是在蒙特雷的海軍研究所實驗室。這是過去 28 年的情形正確來說，上次記錄是2005做的。這是去年秋天的情形這讓研究人員相當緊張。從地形上來看，北極冰帽大小非常像美國。雖然看起來沒有完全像，但它跟美國的大小一樣，扣掉大約一個亞利桑納州的面積。2005 年冰帽消失的面積等於密西西比以東的面積。去年秋天再消失的面積等於這麼多，它在冬天又回來了但這並不是永久冰，而是薄冰。是會融化的，現在僅存的冰也是會完全消失的大約五年後的夏天就會消失。這讓格林蘭面臨極大壓力。這是在北極圈附近這是阿拉斯加一個有名的村莊，這是個小鎮在紐芬蘭，在南極洲，太空總署的最新研究。中度到重度融冰的數量約等於一個加州。 這是最好的時代也是最壞的時代：這是英國文學最有名的開場白，我想要簡短地跟你們講兩個星球的故事地球和金星大小一樣地球直徑約多了 400 公里，但基本上，兩者大小一樣。兩者含碳量也相同但不同的是，地球上大多數的碳經過長時間，都被從大氣層中吸了出去，藏在土壤中，像是煤炭、石油天然氣等等，而在金星，大部分的碳都在大氣層中，結果我們的溫度平均 59 度，而金星的溫度是855 度這跟我們現在的做法有相當的關係我們正在加速把土壤中的碳拿出來放回大氣層裡頭去。金星不是因為離太陽近一點所以它比水星熱三倍，水星就在太陽的旁邊，簡單來說看看這張圖片，這是你看過的照片，我讓大家簡單看看氣候犯罪現場的照片。 全球科學界都說，人類造成全球溫室污染，排入大氣層中把這個加厚，更多紅外線無法輻射出去。這些你都已經知道了根據 IPCC 最新的說法，科學家想告訴我們「你有多確定呢？」科學家想回答：「百分之九十九」中國代表反對這種說法，所以折衷的說法是「百分之九十以上」現在，懷疑論者說，「等一下」這裡面有許多變數，來自太陽的能量。如果這是真的話同溫層的溫度會上升大氣層下層溫度也會上升，如果有更多熱量進來。如果有更多紅外線出不去你可以預期這裡比較熱，這裡比較涼，這裡是大氣層的下層。這裡是同溫層，比較涼。氣候犯罪現場的分析 這裡有些好消息，現在有68%的美國人相信人類要為全球暖化負責有69％相信地球的溫度正急遽升高觀念上的確是有些進步了但重點是：如果要開一張清單列出我們要面對的挑戰，全球暖化還是被排在很下面。因為我們缺少了急迫感。如果你都同意這些事實分析，但是你卻沒有急迫感，你會怎麼做呢？我所領導的氣候保護聯盟跟 CurrentTV 一起共同舉辦了一場全球廣告競賽，來宣傳這件事情。這是得獎作品。 我給大家看看所有的媒體 - NBC 電視台他們頂尖的記者群2007 年向總統候選人提了 956 個問題只有兩個是關於氣候危機的問題ABC 電視台：844個問題，只有兩個關於氣候危機Fox 電視台：兩個，CNN 新聞網：兩個，CBS 電視台：沒有樂極生悲，這是一個很老的香煙廣告。這是我們正在做的事情。這是這些國家的石油消耗量，這是我們美國的消耗量。不是只有已開發國家這樣而已。開發中國家現在也步上了我們的後塵而且腳步更快。事實上，他們今年的累積排放量已經等於我們在 1965 年的水準了。他們還在拼命急起直追到 2025 年的總排放量，大概會到達我們在 1985 年的水準。就算有錢國家全都消失了從這圖上來看，我們還是得面臨危機。因為我們給了開發中國家跟我們一樣的科技、一樣的思惟模式因而產生一樣的危機，這是玻利維亞過去三十年的情形 接下來幾秒鐘是捕魚高峰期的圖，60年代70年代、80年代、90年代，我們必須停止這種情形，好消息是我們做得到我們有這方面的技術。至於要怎麼做，我們必須要有一致的看法全世界都在對抗貧窮同時還有降低富有國家碳排放量的挑戰，這些問題有個唯一的、簡單的解決之道。 有人問：「什麼解決之道？」，就是這個。給碳訂個價錢，我們需要徵收二氧化碳的稅，但不增加整體稅賦，來取代以聘雇課稅的方式，這是俾斯麥發明的自從十九世紀開始有些事情就已經變了。對貧窮國家來說，貧窮問題要跟氣候危機一起解決。烏干達對抗貧窮的計畫會被不斷討論如果我們不一併解決氣候危機的問題。 但是貧窮國家對抗貧窮的方式可能會有極大的差異。在歐洲，這個提案已經被廣泛地討論過了。這是 Nature 雜誌寫的，這些是密集的太陽能再生能源電廠，串連成一個超級輸電網提供全歐洲所有的電力這些多半來自開發中國家，高壓直流電。這不是空話，這是可行的。 為了我們的經濟，我們得這麼做最新的數據顯示，過去的舊模式是行不通的不過還是有很多你可以投資的東西如果你投資了瀝青砂，或頁岩油那你的投資組合裡面就有很多次級碳資產。這是根據舊有的模式當吸毒的人手臂跟腳的靜脈血管都萎縮了他們就會發現自己腳趾頭的靜脈了。開發瀝青砂和煤炭頁岩結果都一樣這是一些我個人認為值得的投資。我自己也投資了一些，所以對此我會發表免責聲明但是地熱，密集太陽能高階太陽能發電，兼顧效能與節能。 你以前有看過這張投影片，但現在有點不一樣了。那兩個不簽署的國家現在只剩下一個了，澳洲經過了一場選舉。當時在澳洲有一系列宣傳活動包括電視、網路、廣播廣告等為了加深人們的急迫感。我們訓練了250人來講這些投影片給澳洲每個小鎮、村子，還有城裡的人聽。很多其他的資源也都做了貢獻最後澳洲的新總理宣佈他上任後的第一件事就是要改變澳洲對京都議定書的立場他的承諾他真的做到了。現在他們總算意識到問題了，有部份原因是因為澳洲的乾旱。這是拉尼爾湖，我朋友 Heidi Cullins 說如果我們像幫颶風命名一樣，也幫乾旱取名字我們會叫東南部的那個乾旱「卡崔納」然後我們會說它正朝亞特蘭大前進。我們不能等到像澳洲那麼嚴重的乾旱發生了才來改變我們的政治文化。這裡有更多好消息，這是全美支持京都議定書的城市有多達780個城市，我好像有看到一個熟悉的名字就是它，這的確是個好消息。 最後來做個結論，幾天前我們聽到有人說個人英雄主義已經普通到沒什麼價值了以致於英雄變得相當平庸或公式化。我們需要的是另一個英雄世代，就是我們這些活在當下的人尤其是今天的美國人還有全世界其他人，我們必須明白一件事那就是歷史正給我們一個機會 - 就像是 吉兒．泰勒 (Jill Bolte Taylor) 正在想方設法拯救她自己的性命同時卻被自己奇妙的經歷所擾亂。我們有個紛亂的文化。但是我們正面臨著全球危機我們需要找到一個方法在我們這一個世代，來創造出一種世代使命感真希望我能找到適當的話語來傳達給你們知道。這是另外一個英雄世代他們替人類建立了民主制度。另一個英雄世代，他們解放了黑奴，並且賦予婦女投票權我們也做得到，不要跟我說我們沒有這樣的能力。如果我們能有相當於伊拉克戰爭一個星期的軍費，我們要解決這個挑戰，就一定不成問題。我們絕對有能力做得到。 最後一點，我真的很樂觀，因為我相信我們有能力來面對這些極大的挑戰，把擾亂我們的原因放在一旁，挺身面對這個挑戰這是歷史給我們的挑戰。有時候我會聽到別人是這樣回應氣候危機這個煩惱的他們說：「真是可怕，我們背的包袱真重」我想請你千萬別這樣說因為人類歷史上有多少世代能有這樣千載難逢的機會來面對這樣的挑戰，這值得我們付出一切努力這個挑戰可以激發出我們意想不到的能力我覺得我們應該以相當喜悅的心情來迎接這個挑戰，而且要很感恩是我們這個世代再過一千年後愛樂交響樂團，詩人、歌手會歌頌我們這個世代歷史會記載說：就是他們發覺自己的能力解決了這個重大危機，為人類光明、樂觀的未來奠定基礎。 我們一起努力吧！非常謝謝！ 主持人：對很多TED的朋友來說，真的相當沈痛到頭來，這根本是個設計上的問題一個投票制度的設計問題一個不好的設計，結果讓你的聲音無法被聽見像過去八年那樣有個職位能讓你實現今天所說的這些事情。真的令人心痛 高爾：那種痛你無法體會的（哄堂大笑） 主持人：你看你自己黨提名的候選人他們現在在做的事情，我是說他們關於全球暖化的計畫，有讓你感到期待嗎？ 高爾：你這個問題，我有點難回答因為，一方面，我覺得我們應該感到高興因為共和黨的候選人 - 特定的候選人 - John McCain還有民主黨的兩個候選人他們三人對氣候危機的主張都很不同也都很有前瞻性他們三人都展現出領導力，也都打算採取不同於目前政府的做法我覺得他們三人也都很盡責推出很多計畫跟提案。但是那些選舉語言正如同保守選民聯盟所整理出來的問題所指出的而且，他們還分析了所有的問題此外，這些辯論的贊助廠商他們的標示牌上面還出現「潔淨煤炭」的字樣有人注意到這個嗎？每一場辯論都是「潔淨煤炭」所贊助的「現在，有更低的碳排放！」 這些民主對話的內容雖然豐富但並未替我們建立任何基礎也沒有給我們帶來真正需要的大膽的計畫。他們是在說對的話，他們也可能不管誰當選，也會做對的事情，但是讓我告訴你：當我1997年從京都回來的時候我是充滿了喜悅的因為我們有重大突破然後我們去面對美國國會，100名參議員，只有一個願意投票支持簽署京都議定書不管這些候選人說什麼，他們的意見是什麼都必須跟人民的意見一致才對。 這項挑戰是我們整個人類文明的結構裡頭的一部份。CO2簡直就是我們文明的呼吸。現在我們把這個過程僵化了我們要改變這個模式，而且改變的角度、尺度、速度之大要遠遠超出我們過去所做的改變。這就是為什麼我一開始先談樂觀對我們所做的事情要樂觀，要成為活躍的公民敢於要求 - 換燈泡，更要換法律，修改全球的條約。我們要大聲疾呼，我們要解決這個民主制度的危機我們的民主像血管一樣硬化了，我們必須改變它。使用網路，上網。與其他人串連，成為活躍的公民。要求政府暫停 - 我們不要再有新的燃煤發電廠如果發電廠無法收集、儲存CO2的話，這也表示我們必須盡快建立再生能源。現在沒有人在討論這些，但是我堅信從現在到11月，這是有可能的氣候保護聯盟會發起全國性的宣傳活動，動員基層的人、電視廣告、網路廣告廣播、報紙，與所有人一起結盟不管是女童軍，還是獵人、漁民。 我們需要幫忙、我們需要幫忙 主持人：談談未來你個人的角色，有沒有什麼比你現在所想的、所要做的還更大的事情呢？ 高爾：我祈禱過，我希望我能找到答案來解決問題從此之外，我還能做什麼？Buckminster Fuller 曾經這樣寫道：如果全人類的希望都繫在我身上，我該怎麼辦？我會如何？現在這問題的確是繫在我們的身上，再說一次，這不是換換燈泡就行了。我們，大部分在座的，都是美國人，我們有民主制度。我們有能力改變事情，但是我們要更積極地改變。我們需要的是更高的道德良知。而這很難這很難創造得出來 - 但就快要有了你們知道有一個古老的非洲諺語：「如果要走得快，一人獨行；如果要走得遠，結伴同行」，我們現在需要走得又遠、又快。所以我們需要改變我們的道德良知。改變我們的承諾，需要有全新的急迫感。需要發自內心來感謝感謝我們有接受這份挑戰的榮幸。 主持人：高爾，非常謝謝你來TED演講。 高爾：謝謝你，非常感謝！
