Talk	en	zh-tw
al_seckel_says_our_brains_are_mis_wired	"We're going to talk — my — a new lecture, just for TED — and I'm going show you some illusions that we've created for TED, and I'm going to try to relate this to happiness. What I was thinking about with happiness is, what gives happiness — or happiness, which I equate with joy in my particular area, and I think there's something very fundamental. And I was thinking about this. And it's in terms of both illusions and movies that we go see and jokes and magic shows is that there's something about these things where our expectations are violated in some sort of pleasing way. You go see a movie. And it has an unexpected twist — something that you didn't expect — and you find a joyful experience. You look at those sort of illusions in my book and it's not as what you'd expect. And there's something joyful about it. And it's the same thing with jokes and all these sorts of things. So, what I'm going to try and do in my lecture is go a little bit further and see if I can violate your expectations in a pleasing way. I mean, sometimes expectations that are violated are not pleasant, but I'm going to try to do it in a pleasant way, in a very primal way, so I can make the audience here happy. So I'm going to show you some ways that we can violate your expectations. First of all, I want to show you the particular illusion here. I want you first of all when it pops up on the screen to notice that the two holes are perpendicular to each other. These are all perceptual tricks. These are real objects that I'm going to show you. Now I'm going to show you how it is done. I've looped the film here so you can get a very interesting experience. I want you to see how this illusion is constructed, and it's going to rotate so you see that it's inside out. Now watch, as it rotates back, how quickly your perception snaps. OK now. Watch it as it rotates back again. And this is a very bright audience, all right? See if you can stop it from happening, even though you know 100 percent it's true that — bam! You can't undo it. What does that tell you about yourselves? We're going to do it again. No doubt about it. See if you can stop it from happening. No. It's difficult. And we can violate your expectations in a whole variety of ways about representation, about shape, about color and so forth and it's very primal. And it's an interesting question to ponder, why these things — we find these things joyful. Why would we find them joyful? So, here's something that Lionel did a while ago. I like these sort of little things like this. Again, this is not an optical trick. This is what you would see. In other words, it's not a camera cut. It's a perceptual trick. OK. We can violate your expectations about shape. We can violate your expectations on representation — what an image represents. What do you see here? How many of you here see dolphins? Raise your hand if you see dolphins. OK, those people who raised their hands, afterwards, the rest of the audience, go talk to them, all right? Actually, this is the best example of priming by experience that I know. If you are a child under the age of 10 who haven't been ruined yet, you will look at this image and see dolphins. Now, some of you adults here are saying, ""What dolphins? What dolphins?"" But in fact, if you reversed the figure ground — in other words, the dark areas here — I forgot to ask for a pointer — but if you reverse it, you'll see a whole series of little dolphins. By the way, if you're also a student at CalTech — they also tend to just see the dolphins. It's based on experience. Now, something like this can be used because this is after all talk about design, too. This was done by Saatchi and Saatchi, and they actually got away with this ad in Australia. So, if you look at this ad for beer, all those people are in sort of provocative positions. But they got it passed, and actually won the Clio awards, so it's funny how you can do these things. Remember that sort of, um. This is the joke I did when the Florida ballot was going around. You know, count the dots for Gore; count the dots for Bush; count 'em again ... You can violate your expectations about experience. Here is an outside water fountain that I created with some friends of mine, but you can stop the water in drops and — actually make all the drops levitate. This is something we're building for, you know, amusement parks and that kind of stuff. Now let's take a static image. Can you see this? Do you see the middle section moving down and the outer sections moving up? It's completely static. It's a static image. How many people see this illusion? It's completely static. Right. Now, when — it's interesting that when we look at an image we see, you know, color, depth, texture. And you can look at this whole scene and analyze it. You can see the woman is in closer than the wall and so forth. But the whole thing is actually flat. It's painted. It's trompe l'oeil. And it was such a good trompe l'oeil that people got irritated when they tried to talk to the woman and she wouldn't respond. Now, you can make design mistakes. Like this building in New York. So that when you see it from this side, it looks like the balconies tilt up, and when you walk around to the other side it looks like the balconies go down. So there are cases where you have mistakes in design that incorporate illusions. Or, you take this particular un-retouched photograph. Now, interestingly enough, I get a lot of emails from people who say, ""Is there any perceptual difference between males and females?"" And I really say, ""No."" I mean, women can navigate through the world just as well as males can — and why wouldn't they? However, this is the one illusion that women can consistently do better than males: in matching which head because they rely on fashion cues. They can match the hat. Okay, now getting to a part — I want to show design in illusions. I believe that the first example of illusions being used purposely was by da Vinci in this anamorphic image of an eye. So that when you saw from one little angle was like this. And this little technique got popular in the 16th century and the 17th century to disguise hidden meanings, where you could flip the image and see it from one little point of view like this. But these are early incorporations of illusions brought to — sort of high point with Hans Holbein's ""Ambassadors."" And Hans Holbein worked for Henry VIII. This was hung on a wall where you could walk down from the stair and you can see this hidden skull. All right, now I'm going to show you some designers who work with illusions to give that element of surprise. One of my favorites is Scott Kim. I worked with Scott to create some illusions for TED that I hope you will enjoy. We have one here on TED and happiness. OK now. Arthur [Ganson] hasn't talked yet, but his is going to be a delightful talk and he has some of his really fantastic machines outside. And so, we — Scott created this wonderful tribute to Arthur Ganson. Well, there's analog and digital. Thought that was appropriate here. And figure goes to ground. And for the musicians. And of course, since happiness — we want ""joy to the world."" Now, another great designer — he's very well known in Japan — Shigeo Fukuda. And he just builds some fantastic things. This is simply amazing. This is a pile of junk that when you view it from one particular angle, you see its reflection in the mirror as a perfect piano. Pianist transforms to violinist. This is really wild. This assemblage of forks, knives and spoons and various cutlery, welded together. It gives a shadow of a motorcycle. You learn something in the sort of thing that I do, which is there are people out there with a lot of time on their hands. Ken Knowlton does wonderful composite images, like creating Jacques Cousteau out of seashells — un-retouched seashells, but just by rearranging them. He did Einstein out of dice because, after all, Einstein said, ""God does not play dice with the universe."" Bert Herzog out of un-retouched keyboards. Will Shortz, crossword puzzle. John Cederquist does these wonderful trompe l'oeil cabinets. Now, I'm going to skip ahead since I'm sort of running [behind]. I want to show you quickly what I've created, some new type of illusions. I've done something with taking the Pixar-type illusions. So you see these kids the same size here, running down the hall. The two table tops of the same size. They're looking out two directions at once. You have a larger piece fitting in with a smaller. And that's something for you to think about, all right? So you see larger pieces fitting in within smaller pieces here. Does everyone see that? Which is impossible. You can see the two kids are looking out simultaneously out of two different directions at once. Now can you believe these two table tops are the same size and shape? They are. So, if you measured them, they would be. And as I say, those two figures are identical in size and shape. And it's interesting, by doing this in this sort of rendered fashion, how much stronger the illusions are. Any case, I hope this has brought you a little joy and happiness, and if you're interested in seeing more cool effects, see me outside. I'd be happy to show you lots of things."	我們要講一個，特別為TED 做的新的演講。我要給你們看一些我們特別為TED做的幻象。我會嘗試讓這些與「怏樂」有關。我在想快樂是什麼，什麽爲人帶來快樂？在我的領域中，快樂相當於喜悅。而且我認為有個非常基本的東西。我這麼想的：以幻象和電影的角度來說，當我們聽笑話或看魔術時，有個特點是他們都以一種討喜的方式違反我們預想的結果。你去看一場電影，出奇意表地來一個轉折，一個你沒有想到的轉折，你覺得這是個喜悅的經驗。你看我書中的幻象，他們跟你預期的不一樣。然而這當中是有喜悅的元素的。這跟笑話是一樣的。所以我要試著在我的講座中作一些嘗試看是否能以討喜的方式違反你的期望。我的意思是，有時被違反的期望是不討喜的，但我要嘗試的是用一種討喜、簡單的方式來讓觀眾開心。 我現在為你示範一些我們可以違反你期望的例子。首先，我要給你看以下的幻像。當銀幕出現的時候，我要你們留意有兩個互相垂直的洞。這些都是感知上的戲法。我要給你看的都是真實的物體。現在我要給你看是怎麼做到的。我將這短片轉了一下，讓你可以有個有趣的經驗。我要你看這個戲法是如何製造出來的；他會轉到讓你看到物體內外相反。現在仔細看他轉回去。看你的感知多快的閃回去。好，現在，再看他轉回去。而且我們這裡的觀眾是非常聰明的。看你能不能阻止這個現象。就算你百分百確定這是真的，但是，哎呀，你控制不了。這告訴你甚麼？我們再來一次，無可否認的，你可以試著阻止它。不行，太難了。 我們可以用很多方法違反你的期望，例如形狀或顏色，而且這是非常基本的。這是一個有趣的問題。為什麼會這樣-我們覺得愉悅。為什麼它們能逗我們開心？這是黎歐諾前一陣子做的東西。我喜歡這類的小東西。 同樣的，這不是視覺上的詭計。這是你真的看見的。也就是說，這不是影片剪輯。這是感知錯覺。好。我們可以違反你對於形狀的期望。我們可以違反你對圖像的期望－圖像代表的事物。你在這張圖中看見什麼？有多少人看見海豚？請舉手如果你看見海豚的話。好，那些舉手的人，演講完，其他的聽眾去找他們談談，好嗎？事實上，這是據我所知經驗造成偏好的最好的例子。如果你是十歲以下的小孩還沒墮落，你看著這張圖會看見海豚。同時，在場的一些大人會說：什麼海豚？哪有海豚？但事實上，如果你反轉圖像的背景－就是這裡深色的區塊－我忘了要紅外線指燈筆－但如果你反轉它的話，你會看見成群的小海豚。順道一提，如果你是加州理工學院的學生－他們也傾向於看見海豚。這是以經驗為基礎的。 而這些之所以能拿來運用是因為我們談的是設計。這是上奇廣告公司做的。他們真的得以在澳洲用了這個廣告。如果你看這個啤酒的廣告，所有人的儀態都好像很挑逗。但他們混過去了。還得了克里歐獎。所以做這些事是很有趣的。還記得有一種，嗯，我開的玩笑嗎？在佛羅里達州開票的時候，數高爾的點數，數布希的點數。再數一次。 你還可以這樣違反經驗造就的期望。這是個戶外噴水池，我和一些朋友發明的。但你可以讓水滴靜止，而且讓它停在半空中。這是我們現在在做的：就是遊樂場那類的。現在，我們看這個靜態的圖。你們看得到嗎？有沒有看到中間的部份正往下移而外部則往上移？這完全是靜態的。是靜態圖。多少人看見這個幻象？這完全是靜態的。好。有趣的是，我們看圖的時候，可以看見顏色，濃淺度，和質感。而且你們可以看整個場景來分析它。你可以看出這個女人比較靠近牆。但事實上整個是平面的。這是畫的。這是透視畫法。這透視畫法傳神到有些人為了這女人不回他們的話而生氣。 現在，你也可以在設計上使用錯覺。像這棟在紐約的建築。從這邊看起來，陽台看起來往上翹；但你如果走到另一邊，看起來陽台往下傾。所以你也可以在設計上置入感知錯覺。或是，你也可以看這張沒有修過的照片。現在非常有趣的，我常常收到有人透過電郵問我：「男生跟女生中間在感知錯覺中有什麼不同嗎？」然後我會回答：「沒有」我的意思是女生跟男生一樣可以正常生活為什麼不？但事實上是有女人比男人強的：在配對哪一個頭是誰的因為她們可以用流行線索。她們會配對帽子。 好，現在回到重點。我要給你們看設計上的錯覺。據我所知，第一個故意使用錯覺的人是達文西。在他的歪像眼睛中，從一個角度看是這樣的。這個技巧在十六十七世紀常被用來掩飾特殊意思。你可以把圖像轉過來就可以從這個角度看到。這是早期在感知錯覺上的應用。Hans Holbein在「使者」這幅畫用得淋漓盡致。而且Hans Holdbein為亨利八世工作。你可以爬上樓梯就可以看到隱藏的骷髏頭。 好，現在，我要給你們看一些設計家他們如何使用錯覺來製造驚喜的元素。一個我很喜歡的是史考特金。我和史考特一同製作了一些感知錯覺給ＴＥＤ，希望你們會喜歡。我們這裡有一個是有關ＴＥＤ和快樂的。好現在亞瑟還沒講話，但他要講的挺令人愉悅的而且他在外面有一些非常有趣的機器。所以，我們-史考特製作了一些東西給亞瑟甘森。 好，這裡是「analog」和「digital」覺得這個在這裡很適合。然後「figure」變成「ground」。然後給音樂家們，當然的，因為是快樂，我們要「joy to the world」(把快樂帶給世間）現在，另一個很棒的設計家他在日本非常有名：福田 繁雄。他製造了一些很有趣的東西。這實在是太驚人了。在這個角度看，這是一堆沒用的廢物，但你看從鏡子中反射出來的是一架完整的鋼琴。鋼琴家變成小提琴家。這很瘋狂。這些叉子、刀子和湯匙和一些廚房用具的組合，成為一臺摩托車的影子。從這些可以學到一件事情：就是很多人非常閒。 Ken Knowlton在組合這些圖片中做的很好。像是從貝殼中拼出Jacques Consteau，沒有修片過的貝殼，只是重新拼過。他也用骰子拼出愛因斯坦，畢竟愛因斯坦曾說：「神不跟世界玩丟骰子的。」用未修片的鍵盤拼出Bert Herzog（德國電影家）。用字謎拼Will Shortz（美國字謎創作家）Cederquist（傢具設計家）利用透視法做的衣櫃。 現在我要跳過一些東西，我有點時間不夠。我要用很快的速度給你們看我做的東西一些新的感知錯覺。我用類似皮克斯的圖像做些手法。你看這些小孩是同樣的大小，在走廊上奔跑。兩張一樣大小的桌子。他們同時往兩個方向看。你有一個大的東西放進小的。這是個給你們想的東西，好嗎？你看到一個較大的物體放到一個較小的物體當中。大家都有看到嗎？這是不可能辦到的。你看到兩個小孩同時往兩個方向看。現在你相信這兩張桌子的桌面形狀和大小都一樣嗎？他們真的一樣。就是如果你去測量他們，他們真的一樣。就像我說的，那兩樣東西是在大小和形狀上是一模一樣的。這非常有趣，就是這樣做，這些感知錯覺可以變得這麼奇怪。不論如何，我希望這有讓你感到愉悅及快樂，如果你想要看更多很酷的東西，到外面找我，我很樂意給你們看很多東西。
