Talk	en	zh-tw
al_vernacchio_sex_needs_a_new_metaphor_here_s_one	"I'd like to talk to you today about a whole new way to think about sexual activity and sexuality education, by comparison. If you talk to someone today in America about sexual activity, you'll find pretty soon you're not just talking about sexual activity. You're also talking about baseball. Because baseball is the dominant cultural metaphor that Americans use to think about and talk about sexual activity, and we know that because there's all this language in English that seems to be talking about baseball but that's really talking about sexual activity. So, for example, you can be a pitcher or a catcher, and that corresponds to whether you perform a sexual act or receive a sexual act. Of course, there are the bases, which refer to specific sexual activities that happen in a very specific order, ultimately resulting in scoring a run or hitting a home run, which is usually having vaginal intercourse to the point of orgasm, at least for the guy. (Laughter) You can strike out, which means you don't get to have any sexual activity. And if you're a benchwarmer, you might be a virgin or somebody who for whatever reason isn't in the game, maybe because of your age or because of your ability or because of your skillset. A bat's a penis, and a nappy dugout is a vulva, or a vagina. A glove or a catcher's mitt is a condom. A switch-hitter is a bisexual person, and we gay and lesbian folks play for the other team. And then there's this one: ""if there's grass on the field, play ball."" And that usually refers to if a young person, specifically often a young woman, is old enough to have pubic hair, she's old enough to have sex with. This baseball model is incredibly problematic. It's sexist. It's heterosexist. It's competitive. It's goal-directed. And it can't result in healthy sexuality developing in young people or in adults. So we need a new model. I'm here today to offer you that new model. And it's based on pizza. Now pizza is something that is universally understood and that most people associate with a positive experience. So let's do this. Let's take baseball and pizza and compare it when talking about three aspects of sexual activity: the trigger for sexual activity, what happens during sexual activity, and the expected outcome of sexual activity. So when do you play baseball? You play baseball when it's baseball season and when there's a game on the schedule. It's not exactly your choice. So if it's prom night or a wedding night or at a party or if our parents aren't home, hey, it's just batter up. Can you imagine saying to your coach, ""Uh, I'm not really feeling it today, I think I'll sit this game out."" That's just not the way it happens. And when you get together to play baseball, immediately you're with two opposing teams, one playing offense, one playing defense, somebody's trying to move deeper into the field. That's usually a sign to the boy. Somebody's trying to defend people moving into the field. That's often given to the girl. It's competitive. We're not playing with each other. We're playing against each other. And when you show up to play baseball, nobody needs to talk about what we're going to do or how this baseball game might be good for us. Everybody knows the rules. You just take your position and play the game. But when do you have pizza? Well, you have pizza when you're hungry for pizza. It starts with an internal sense, an internal desire, or a need. ""Huh. I could go for some pizza."" (Laughter) And because it's an internal desire, we actually have some sense of control over that. I could decide that I'm hungry but know that it's not a great time to eat. And then when we get together with someone for pizza, we're not competing with them, we're looking for an experience that both of us will share that's satisfying for both of us, and when you get together for pizza with somebody, what's the first thing you do? You talk about it. You talk about what you want. You talk about what you like. You may even negotiate it. ""How do you feel about pepperoni?"" (Laughter) ""Not so much, I'm kind of a mushroom guy myself."" ""Well, maybe we can go half and half."" And even if you've had pizza with somebody for a very long time, don't you still say things like, ""Should we get the usual?"" (Laughter) ""Or maybe something a little more adventurous?"" Okay, so when you're playing baseball, so if we talk about during sexual activity, when you're playing baseball, you're just supposed to round the bases in the proper order one at a time. You can't hit the ball and run to right field. That doesn't work. And you also can't get to second base and say, ""I like it here. I'm going to stay here."" No. And also, of course, with baseball, there's, like, the specific equipment and a specific skill set. Not everybody can play baseball. It's pretty exclusive. Okay, but what about pizza? When we're trying to figure out what's good for pizza, isn't it all about what's our pleasure? There are a million different kinds of pizza. There's a million different toppings. There's a million different ways to eat pizza. And none of them are wrong. They're different. And in this case, difference is good, because that's going to increase the chance that we're having a satisfying experience. And lastly, what's the expected outcome of baseball? Well, in baseball, you play to win. You score as many runs as you can. There's always a winner in baseball, and that means there's always a loser in baseball. But what about pizza? Well, in pizza, we're not really — there's no winning. How do you win pizza? You don't. But you do look for, ""Are we satisfied?"" And sometimes that can be different amounts over different times or with different people or on different days. And we get to decide when we feel satisfied. If we're still hungry, we might have some more. If you eat too much, though, you just feel gross. (Laughter) So what if we could take this pizza model and overlay it on top of sexuality education? A lot of sexuality education that happens today is so influenced by the baseball model, and it sets up education that can't help but produce unhealthy sexuality in young people. And those young people become older people. But if we could create sexuality education that was more like pizza, we could create education that invites people to think about their own desires, to make deliberate decisions about what they want, to talk about it with their partners, and to ultimately look for not some external outcome but for what feels satisfying, and we get to decide that. You may have noticed in the baseball and pizza comparison, under the baseball, it's all commands. They're all exclamation points. But under the pizza model, they're questions. And who gets to answer those questions? You do. I do. So remember, when we're thinking about sexuality education and sexual activity, baseball, you're out. Pizza is the way to think about healthy, satisfying sexual activity, and good, comprehensive sexuality education. Thank you very much for your time. (Applause)"	今天 我想和大家談談如何用一個全新的角度 去思考性活動和性教育 兩者相比 如果在美國 今天你和某人談論有關性活動的事情你很快就會發現 你不只是在聊性活動你們可能還會聊到棒球因為棒球是一種主流文化喻象美國人會想到聊天談到性生活時我們會知道是因為在英文裡 所有這種言語都聽起來好像是在講棒球但是其實都是在談論性活動 舉個例子 你是位投手或是捕手但其實在比喻你是主動方還是被動方當然說上了幾壘這種就更不用說了每一壘都代表特定的性活動進度發生在一個非常特定的順序最後就是要跑回本壘得分或轟出一支全壘打那通常指的是發生第一次性行為就有高潮至少男的會有(笑聲)你也可能被三振出局 意思是你沒有進行任何性活動如果你是一位板凳球員那可能表示 你是一位處男、處女或是一位與這場無關的人可能是因為你的年紀或能力或是因為你的技巧球棒指的是男性生殖器球員休息區則是指女性陰唇或陰道手套或是捕手套就是保險套如果說一個人能夠左右開弓意思是他是一位雙性戀者不管是男同志還是女同志還有一句話是這麼說的『只要球場上有草，就可以打球了』這通常是指如果一位年輕人 通常指的是年輕女性她的年紀已經夠大 開始會長陰毛也表示她已經到適當年紀可以與他人有性行為 拿棒球來比喻「性」會造成非常多問題這種比喻是性別主義 是異性戀主義具有競爭意味 而且是目標導向這種比喻方式無法導致讓年輕人或成人發展健康的性活動所以我們需要一個新的模範今天我在這裡就是要給大家看看新的模組這是以披薩為模組 現在人人都知道披薩並且大多數人對披薩都有正向經驗所以我們來試試看我們拿棒球和披薩來比較一下談到性活動的三個面向的時候性活動的觸發點在從事性活動的時候以及希望性活動帶來的結果 所以你在打棒球的時候?你會在球季開始的時候打棒球有一場排定的比賽的時候你無法選擇所以如果是舞會之夜或婚禮之夜或是在派對上或如果我們的父母不在家我們就準備來翻雲覆雨你能想像一下 對你的教練說我今天狀態不太好我想我還是不要上場比賽事情不是這樣子的你們在一起打棒球的時候馬上就要分成兩隊一邊扮演進攻方 另一邊扮演防守方有人想試著更深入球場那通常是指的是男生有人試著防守不讓人進入通常指的是女生競爭非常激烈我們不是在玩我們是在互相對抗你要去打棒球的時候大家都知道我們要做什麼這場球賽對我們有什麼好處大家都知道規則你就只要站好你的位置 開始比賽 但是你什麼時候會去吃披薩?當然是在你非常想吃披薩的時候你就會去吃披薩這是源自於一種內在的感受、欲望或是需求我想去吃披薩(笑聲)因為這是一種內在的欲望事實上我們有些許控制感 想去控制內在欲望我可以決定 我很餓但我知道現在還不到吃飯的時候我們跟他人一起去吃披薩的時候我們不是在跟他們競爭我們是在尋找一種經驗讓我們兩個能夠共同分享同時滿足我們雙方我們跟某人一起去吃披薩的時候第一件事你會做什麼?你會討論要吃那種披薩你會說出你的需求你會談到你喜歡什麼東西你甚至可能會忽略它 你覺得義式香腸好不好吃?(笑聲) 感覺還好 我個人比較喜歡吃洋菇 也許我們可以各來一點 即使你跟某人一起吃披薩已經有一段很長的時間難道妳不會說這種話 就像是我們應該常吃嗎?(笑聲)或者做一些更有冒險感覺的事情 好 所以你在打棒球的時候所以我們在從事性活動的時候 談到棒球你在打棒球的時候你只要去跑壘在一定的順序之下 一次上一壘你不能擊球那樣沒用你也不能跑到二壘 說我喜歡在這裡 我想待在這裡不行當然 說到棒球 當然有特定的裝備和技巧組合不是每個人都可以打棒球 好 但是披薩呢?我們試著要了解披薩有什麼好吃的時候這不都與我們的意願有關嗎?有一百萬種不同的披薩有一百萬種不同的配料有一百萬種不同的披薩吃法都沒有錯 他們都不一樣就這個例子而言 有差異是件好事因為這將能夠增加機會讓我們有個滿意的經驗 最後這場棒球賽期望的結果是什麼?在棒球領域而言，你打棒球是為了要獲勝你盡可能多跑壘得分打棒球的時候 一定會有贏家也就是說 也會有輸家 但披薩呢?就披薩而言 我們不是真的這方面沒有輸贏 你要怎麼贏得披薩?你沒辦法 但是你會去找披薩我們滿意嗎?有時候 我們吃的數量會不一樣次數不一樣 或是跟不同人一起吃或是在不同日子我們必須決定我們什麼時候覺得滿意如果我們還很餓 可能就多吃一點如果你吃太多你只會覺得想吐 (笑聲) 所以假使我們拿這個披薩模組套用在性教育上今日許多性教育都深受棒球模組的影響以這種模組建立起的教育不得不對年輕人產生不健康的性活動讓那些年輕人的思想變得更老化 但是如果我們能創造出一套性教育方式更像是披薩譬喻的方法我們創造出一套教育方法 邀請民眾思考他們自己的性欲經過深思熟慮做下他們想要的決定跟他們的父母談談「性」最後不是要尋找外部結果而是要尋找怎樣會讓我們覺得滿意我們必須決定 你們可能已經注意到在棒球和披薩的比較之下在棒球領域 都是命令的方式他們都是驚嘆號但是在披薩模組 他們都是問號誰會回答這些問題呢?你會 我也會 所已請記得 當我們想到性教育 性活動棒球的時候 你就出局了披薩是一種方式 思考健康令人滿意的性活動和適當且具廣泛性的性教育 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
