Talk	en	zh-tw
alaa_murabit_what_my_religion_really_says_about_women	"So on my way here, the passenger next to me and I had a very interesting conversation during my flight. He told me, ""It seems like the United States has run out of jobs, because they're just making some up: cat psychologist, dog whisperer, tornado chaser."" A couple of seconds later, he asked me, ""So what do you do?"" And I was like, ""Peacebuilder?"" (Laughter) Every day, I work to amplify the voices of women and to highlight their experiences and their participation in peace processes and conflict resolution, and because of my work, I recognize that the only way to ensure the full participation of women globally is by reclaiming religion. Now, this matter is vitally important to me. As a young Muslim woman, I am very proud of my faith. It gives me the strength and conviction to do my work every day. It's the reason I can be here in front of you. But I can't overlook the damage that has been done in the name of religion, not just my own, but all of the world's major faiths. The misrepresentation and misuse and manipulation of religious scripture has influenced our social and cultural norms, our laws, our daily lives, to a point where we sometimes don't recognize it. My parents moved from Libya, North Africa, to Canada in the early 1980s, and I am the middle child of 11 children. Yes, 11. But growing up, I saw my parents, both religiously devout and spiritual people, pray and praise God for their blessings, namely me of course, but among others. (Laughter) They were kind and funny and patient, limitlessly patient, the kind of patience that having 11 kids forces you to have. And they were fair. I was never subjected to religion through a cultural lens. I was treated the same, the same was expected of me. I was never taught that God judged differently based on gender. And my parents' understanding of God as a merciful and beneficial friend and provider shaped the way I looked at the world. Now, of course, my upbringing had additional benefits. Being one of 11 children is Diplomacy 101. (Laughter) To this day, I am asked where I went to school, like, ""Did you go to Kennedy School of Government?"" and I look at them and I'm like, ""No, I went to the Murabit School of International Affairs."" It's extremely exclusive. You would have to talk to my mom to get in. Lucky for you, she's here. But being one of 11 children and having 10 siblings teaches you a lot about power structures and alliances. It teaches you focus; you have to talk fast or say less, because you will always get cut off. It teaches you the importance of messaging. You have to ask questions in the right way to get the answers you know you want, and you have to say no in the right way to keep the peace. But the most important lesson I learned growing up was the importance of being at the table. When my mom's favorite lamp broke, I had to be there when she was trying to find out how and by who, because I had to defend myself, because if you're not, then the finger is pointed at you, and before you know it, you will be grounded. I am not speaking from experience, of course. When I was 15 in 2005, I completed high school and I moved from Canada — Saskatoon — to Zawiya, my parents' hometown in Libya, a very traditional city. Mind you, I had only ever been to Libya before on vacation, and as a seven-year-old girl, it was magic. It was ice cream and trips to the beach and really excited relatives. Turns out it's not the same as a 15-year-old young lady. I very quickly became introduced to the cultural aspect of religion. The words ""haram"" — meaning religiously prohibited — and ""aib"" — meaning culturally inappropriate — were exchanged carelessly, as if they meant the same thing and had the same consequences. And I found myself in conversation after conversation with classmates and colleagues, professors, friends, even relatives, beginning to question my own role and my own aspirations. And even with the foundation my parents had provided for me, I found myself questioning the role of women in my faith. So at the Murabit School of International Affairs, we go very heavy on the debate, and rule number one is do your research, so that's what I did, and it surprised me how easy it was to find women in my faith who were leaders, who were innovative, who were strong — politically, economically, even militarily. Khadija financed the Islamic movement in its infancy. We wouldn't be here if it weren't for her. So why weren't we learning about her? Why weren't we learning about these women? Why were women being relegated to positions which predated the teachings of our faith? And why, if we are equal in the eyes of God, are we not equal in the eyes of men? To me, it all came back to the lessons I had learned as a child. The decision maker, the person who gets to control the message, is sitting at the table, and unfortunately, in every single world faith, they are not women. Religious institutions are dominated by men and driven by male leadership, and they create policies in their likeness, and until we can change the system entirely, then we can't realistically expect to have full economic and political participation of women. Our foundation is broken. My mom actually says, you can't build a straight house on a crooked foundation. In 2011, the Libyan revolution broke out, and my family was on the front lines. And there's this amazing thing that happens in war, a cultural shift almost, very temporary. And it was the first time that I felt it was not only acceptable for me to be involved, but it was encouraged. It was demanded. Myself and other women had a seat at the table. We weren't holding hands or a medium. We were part of decision making. We were information sharing. We were crucial. And I wanted and needed for that change to be permanent. Turns out, that's not that easy. It only took a few weeks before the women that I had previously worked with were returning back to their previous roles, and most of them were driven by words of encouragement from religious and political leaders, most of whom cited religious scripture as their defense. It's how they gained popular support for their opinions. So initially, I focused on the economic and political empowerment of women. I thought that would lead to cultural and social change. It turns out, it does a little, but not a lot. I decided to use their defense as my offense, and I began to cite and highlight Islamic scripture as well. In 2012 and 2013, my organization led the single largest and most widespread campaign in Libya. We entered homes and schools and universities, even mosques. We spoke to 50,000 people directly, and hundreds of thousands more through billboards and television commercials, radio commercials and posters. And you're probably wondering how a women's rights organization was able to do this in communities which had previously opposed our sheer existence. I used scripture. I used verses from the Quran and sayings of the Prophet, Hadiths, his sayings which are, for example, ""The best of you is the best to their family."" ""Do not let your brother oppress another."" For the first time, Friday sermons led by local community imams promoted the rights of women. They discussed taboo issues, like domestic violence. Policies were changed. In certain communities, we actually had to go as far as saying the International Human Rights Declaration, which you opposed because it wasn't written by religious scholars, well, those same principles are in our book. So really, the United Nations just copied us. By changing the message, we were able to provide an alternative narrative which promoted the rights of women in Libya. It's something that has now been replicated internationally, and while I am not saying it's easy — believe me, it's not. Liberals will say you're using religion and call you a bad conservative. Conservatives will call you a lot of colorful things. I've heard everything from, ""Your parents must be extremely ashamed of you"" — false; they're my biggest fans — to ""You will not make it to your next birthday"" — again wrong, because I did. And I remain a very strong believer that women's rights and religion are not mutually exclusive. But we have to be at the table. We have to stop giving up our position, because by remaining silent, we allow for the continued persecution and abuse of women worldwide. By saying that we're going to fight for women's rights and fight extremism with bombs and warfare, we completely cripple local societies which need to address these issues so that they're sustainable. It is not easy, challenging distorted religious messaging. You will have your fair share of insults and ridicule and threats. But we have to do it. We have no other option than to reclaim the message of human rights, the principles of our faith, not for us, not for the women in your families, not for the women in this room, not even for the women out there, but for societies that would be transformed with the participation of women. And the only way we can do that, our only option, is to be, and remain, at the table. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在來的途中，在飛機上和隔壁的乘客有一段很有趣的對話。他跟我說：「美國感覺好像工作都沒了似的，因為大家都編出一些職業像是：貓咪心理醫生、狗語專家、追風者。」 然後過了幾秒鐘他問我：「那你是做什麼的？」 我說：「和平締造者？」（笑聲） 我每天努力讓女性的聲音被更多人聽見，強調他們經歷和參與促進和平、化解衝突的事蹟，而因為我的工作，我認知到，要確保婦女在全球都能夠全面參與的唯一途徑，只有透過收復宗教。 這個議題對我來說至關重要。做為一個年輕回教女性，我對我的信仰十分引以為傲。它讓我擁有面對每天工作的力量與信念。是我能夠站在你們面前的原因。但我不能忽視過去以宗教之名所帶來的傷害，不僅是我的宗教，還包括全世界所有的主要信仰。曲解和濫用、操弄宗教經文，已經影響了我們的社會和文化規範、我們的法律、我們的日常生活，有時甚至影響到我們沒發覺的地步。 我的父母在八零年代早期，從北非的利比亞移民到加拿大。而我是十一個小孩中間的一個。沒錯，十一個。但是成長過程中我看到我的父母，都是宗教上非常虔誠、心靈富有的人，祈禱並讚美神帶給他們的祝福，也就是我，當然還有其他的事物。（笑聲）他們非常仁慈、幽默，也很有耐心，無限的耐心，被十一個小孩強迫出來的耐心。而且他們非常公平。我從來沒有被他們以加上文化眼光的宗教來對待。他們對我一視同仁，對我的要求也相同。我從來沒被教育過神會因為性別而對人有差別待遇。而我父母理解的神是一位仁慈的益友與供給者，這個觀念塑造了我看待世界的方式。 當然，我的成長經歷帶來額外的好處。要當十一個小孩之中的一個簡直是在上外交基礎課。（笑聲）到現在如果有人問我哪裡畢業的，像是「你是甘迺迪政府學院畢業的嗎？」我看看他們然後回答：「不是，我是穆拉比國際關係學院畢業的。」非常難進的，要進去你要跟我媽談。不過你很幸運，她就在這兒。但是身為十一個小孩之一，擁有十個兄弟姊妹，能教你許多關於權力結構和結盟的事。能夠教你如何專注；你要說快一點或是少一點，因為你總是會被打斷。它教你訊息溝通的重要性。你必須用正確的方式發問，才能得到你想要的答案，你還必須要用正確的方式說不，才能維持和平。 但是成長中我學到最重要的一課，就是要在圓桌擁有一席之地。當我媽心愛的檯燈被打破了，要找出是誰打破的、怎麼發生的，我必須在場，因為我必須替我自己辯護，如果不在場的話，就會變成眾矢之的。然後你還來不及反應就被禁足了。當然我不是在說我自己的經驗。 2005年我十五歲的時候，完成了高中學業，然後從加拿大薩克屯搬到我父母在利比亞的故鄉 ── 扎維耶，一個非常傳統的城市。提醒大家，我以前只去過利比亞度假，對一個七歲小女孩來說是非常神奇的經驗。有冰淇淋和沙灘旅遊，還有非常興奮的親戚。 不過對一個十五歲的年輕女性來說就不一樣了。我很快就接觸到宗教在文化上的那一面。「Haram」這個字 ── 表示宗教上禁止，還有「Aib」── 表示文化上不適當，兩個字被不經意的調換。好像這兩個字代表同樣含義、擁有相同後果。然後我發現自己無數次在和同學、同事、教授、朋友，甚至是和親戚的對話中，開始質疑我自己的原則和志向。甚至就算在我的父母幫我打下的基礎上，我發現我在質疑自己信仰中女性所扮演的角色。 在穆拉比國際關係學院裡，我們對辯論的訓練很紮實，第一條規則就是要做好功課，所以我就去做功課，然後我很驚訝，其實非常容易在我的信仰中找到曾是領導者的女性，或是創新者、非常堅強的女性，無論是在政治、經濟，甚至是軍事領域中。海迪徹在伊斯蘭運動剛起步的時候提供資金，要是沒有她我們不會在這裡。那麼我們為什麼沒被教導關於她的事蹟？為什麼我們沒被教導關於這些女性的事蹟？為什麼女性的地位在我們的信仰教育中被埋沒？還有為什麼，如果在神的眼裡我們是平等的，為何在男人的眼中我們不是平等的？ 對我來說，全都回歸到我童年時所學習到的。決策者，也就是能控制訊息的那個人，就坐在圓桌前，很不幸的，世界上的每個宗教裡，這些人都不是女性。宗教組織由男人主導，由男性領導者帶動，他們以自己的形象做為政策方針，所以在我們能夠完全改變體制前，我們不可能實際去期待女性能擁有全面的政經參與力。我們的基礎是破碎的。我媽說過，你不能在歪掉的地基上蓋出方正的房子。 2011年利比亞革命爆發，我的家人就在前線。戰爭時發生了非常驚人的事情，幾乎是一場文化上的轉變，非常短暫。那是我第一次感受到，我不僅被容許去參與，甚至是被鼓勵去參與。是被要求的。我自己還有其他女性，在圓桌擁有一席之地。我們不是在那裡手牽手或是當個中間人，我們參與了決策。我們分享資訊，我們是關鍵。我想要而且需要那是永久的轉變。 結果並不如想像中的容易。才幾個星期，這些和我一起工作的女性就回到她們原本的角色，而且她們大部分都是受到宗教與政治領袖的鼓勵，這些人多半引用宗教經文來為自己防禦。他們就是用這種方法取得大眾對他們的支持。 因此，剛開始我致力於賦予女性政治與經濟上的權力。我以為這樣會帶動文化與社會上的轉變。結果是有一點影響，但是不多。我決定拿他們的防禦工具來做為我的進攻工具。我也開始引述和強調伊斯蘭經文。 在2012年和2013年，我的組織發動了利比亞最大、範圍也最廣的運動。我們進入家庭與學校和大學，甚至清真寺。我們直接與五萬人對話，還透過大型看板和電視廣告，以及廣播與海報去接觸更多人。 你可能會想，一個女權組織怎麼能在那些以前光是對我們的存在就很反感的社區進行這些事情。我用經文。我用古蘭經文與先知的聖訓，先知說過的話，例如，「你們之中最好的人是最善待家人的人。」「不要讓你的兄弟壓迫他人。」第一次，由當地社區伊瑪目所帶領的週五講道，提倡了女性的人權。他們討論了像是家庭暴力這一類的禁忌話題。政策改變了。在某些社區，我們甚至必須提到國際人權宣言，你們反對，因為不是宗教學家寫的，但其實我們的書上有同樣的原則。所以實際上，聯合國是抄我們的。 藉著訊息的轉變，我們得以提供另一種敘事角度，提倡利比亞的女權。這樣的方式現在開始在國際上被複製。我不是在說這有多容易 ──相信我，一點也不容易。自由派會說你是在利用宗教，然後說你是糟糕的保守派。保守派又有其他各式各樣的說詞來罵你。我什麼都聽過，從「你的父母一定非常以你為恥」──錯，他們是我的頭號粉絲 ──到「你不會活過下一個生日」──又錯了，因為我過了。而我一直堅信，女權與宗教並非互相排斥。但是我們必須在圓桌上擁有一席之地。我們必須停止放棄自己的地位，因為如果繼續沉默，我們就是容許全世界繼續迫害和虐待女性。藉由宣示我們要爭取女權，打擊使用炸彈、發動戰爭的極端主義者，我們就能完全癱瘓那些要藉由強調這類議題，才能繼續生存的地方社群。 這並不容易，去挑戰扭曲的宗教訊息。你會碰到很多的侮辱、嘲諷和威脅。但是這是我們必須做的。我們別無選擇，必須收復人權的訊息溝通，我們信仰的原則，不是為了我們，不是為了你家中的女性，不是為了這間講廳裡的女性，甚至不是為了社會上的女性，而是為了一個由於女性的參與而轉變的社會。我們唯一能用的方法，我們的唯一選擇，就是在圓桌上、持續的、擁有一席之地。 謝謝你們。 （掌聲）
