Talk	en	zh-tw
alan_eustace_i_leapt_from_the_stratosphere_here_s_how_i_did_it	"So I grew up in Orlando, Florida. I was the son of an aerospace engineer. I lived and breathed the Apollo program. We either saw the launches from our backyard or we saw it by driving in the hour over to the Cape. I was impressed by, obviously, space and everything about it, but I was most impressed by the engineering that went into it. Behind me you see an amazing view, a picture that was taken from the International Space Station, and it shows a portion of our planet that's rarely seen and rarely studied and almost never explored. That place is called the stratosphere. If you start on the planet and you go up and up and up, it gets colder and colder and colder, until you reach the beginning of the stratosphere, and then an amazing thing happens. It gets colder at a much slower rate, and then it starts warming up, and then it gets warmer and warmer until the point where you can almost survive without any protection, about zero degrees, and then you end up getting colder and colder, and that's the top of the stratosphere. It is one of the least accessible places on our planet. Most often, when it's visited, it's by astronauts who are blazing up at it at probably several times the speed of sound, and they get a few seconds on the way up, and then they get this blazing ball of fire coming back in, on the way back in. But the question I asked is, is it possible to linger in the stratosphere? Is it possible to experience the stratosphere? Is it possible to explore the stratosphere? I studied this using my favorite search engine for quite a while, about a year, and then I made a scary phone call. It was a reference from a friend of mine to call Taber MacCallum from Paragon Space Development Corporation, and I asked him the question: is it possible to build a system to go into the stratosphere? And he said it was. And after a period of about three years, we proceeded to do just that. And on October 24 of last year, in this suit, I started on the ground, I went up in a balloon to 135,890 feet — but who's counting? (Laughter) Came back to Earth at speeds of up to 822 miles an hour. It was a four-minute and 27-second descent. And when I got to 10,000 feet, I opened a parachute and I landed. (Applause) But this is really a science talk, and it's really an engineering talk, and what was amazing to me about that experience is that Taber said, yes, I think we can build a stratospheric suit, and more than that, come down tomorrow and let's talk to the team that formed the core of the group that actually built it. And they did something which I think is important, which is they took the analogy of scuba diving. So in scuba diving, you have a self-contained system. You have everything that you could ever need. You have a scuba tank. You have a wetsuit. You have visibility. And that scuba is exactly this system, and we're going to launch it into the stratosphere. Three years later, this is what we have. We've got an amazing suit that was made by ILC Dover. ILC Dover was the company that made all of the Apollo suits and all of the extravehicular activity suits. They had never sold a suit commercially, only to the government, but they sold one to me, which I am very grateful for. Up here we have a parachute. This was all about safety. Everyone on the team knew that I have a wife and two small children — 10 and 15 — and I wanted to come back safely. So there's a main parachute and a reserve parachute, and if I do nothing, the reserve parachute is going to open because of an automatic opening device. The suit itself can protect me from the cold. This area in the front here has thermal protection. It will actually heat water that will wrap around my body. It has two redundant oxygen tanks. Even if I was to get a quarter-inch hole in this suit, which is extremely unlikely, this system would still protect me from the low pressure of space. The main advantage of this system is weight and complexity. So the system weighs about 500 pounds, and if you compare it to the other attempt recently to go up in the stratosphere, they used a capsule. And to do a capsule, there's an amazing amount of complexity that goes into it, and it weighed about 3,000 pounds, and to raise 3,000 pounds to an altitude of 135,000 feet, which was my target altitude, it would have taken a balloon that was 45 to 50 million cubic feet. Because I only weighed 500 pounds in this system, we could do it with a balloon that was five times smaller than that, and that allowed us to use a launch system that was dramatically simpler than what needs to be done for a much larger balloon. So with that, I want to take you to Roswell, New Mexico, on October 24. We had an amazing team that got up in the middle of the night. And here's the suit. Again, this is using the front loader that you'll see in a second, and I want to play you a video of the actual launch. Roswell's a great place to launch balloons, but it's a fantastic place to land under a parachute, especially when you're going to land 70 miles away from the place you started. That's a helium truck in the background. It's darkness. I've already spent about an hour and a half pre-breathing. And then here you see the suit going on. It takes about an hour to get the suit on. Astronauts get this really nice air-conditioned van to go to the launch pad, but I got a front loader. (Laughter) You can see the top. You can see the balloon up there. That's where the helium is. This is Dave clearing the airspace with the FAA for 15 miles. And there we go. (Laughter) That's me waving with my left hand. The reason I'm waving with my left hand is because on the right hand is the emergency cutaway. (Laughter) My team forbade me from using my right hand. So the trip up is beautiful. It's kind of like Google Earth in reverse. (Laughter) It took two hours and seven minutes to go up, and it was the most peaceful two hours and seven minutes. I was mostly trying to relax. My heart rate was very low and I was trying not to use very much oxygen. You can see how the fields in the background are relatively big at this point, and you can see me going up and up. It's interesting here, because if you look, I'm right over the airport, and I'm probably at 50,000 feet, but immediately I'm about to go into a stratospheric wind of over 120 miles an hour. This is my flight director telling me that I had just gone higher than anybody else had ever gone in a balloon, and I was about 4,000 feet from release. This is what it looks like. You can see the darkness of space, the curvature of the Earth, the fragile planet below. I'm practicing my emergency procedures mentally right now. If anything goes wrong, I want to be ready. And the main thing that I want to do here is to have a release and fall and stay completely stable. (Video) Ground control. Everyone ready? Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Alan Eustace: There's the balloon going by, fully inflated at this point. And there you can see a drogue parachute, which I'll demonstrate in just a second, because that's really important. There's the balloon going by a second time. Right now, I'm about at the speed of sound. There's nothing for me to tell it's the speed of sound, and very soon I will actually be as fast as I ever get, 822 miles an hour. (Video) Ground control: We lost the data. AE: So now I'm down low right now and you can basically see the parachute come out right there. At this point, I'm very happy that there's a parachute out. I thought I was the only one happy, but it turns out mission control was really happy as well. The really nice thing about this is the moment I opened — I had a close of friend of mine, Blikkies, my parachute guy. He flew in another airplane, and he actually jumped out and landed right next to me. He was my wingman on the descent. This is my landing, but it's probably more properly called a crash. (Laughter) I hate to admit it, but this wasn't even close to my worst landing. (Laughter) (Applause) (Video) Man: How are you doing? AE: Hi there! Yay. (Laughter) So I want to tell you one thing that you might not have seen in that video, but one of the most critical parts of the entire thing was the release and what happens right after you release. And what we tried to do was use something called a drogue parachute, and a drogue parachute was there to stabilize me. And I'll show you one of those right now. If any of you have ever gone tandem skydiving, you probably used one of these. But the problem with one of these things is right when you release, you're in zero gravity. So it's very easy for this to just turn right around you. And before you know it, you can be tangled up or spinning, or you can release this drogue late, in which case what happens is you're going down at 800 miles an hour, and this thing is going to destroy itself and not be very useful. But the guys at United Parachute Technologies came up with this idea, and it was a roll that looks like that, but watch what happens when I pull it out. It's forming a pipe. This pipe is so solid that you can take this drogue parachute and wrap it around, and there's no way it will ever tangle with you. And that prevented a very serious potential problem. So nothing is possible without an amazing team of people. The core of this was about 20 people that worked on this for the three years, and they were incredible. People asked me what the best part of this whole thing was, and it was a chance to work with the best experts in meteorology and ballooning and parachute technology and environmental systems and high altitude medicine. It was fantastic. It's an engineer's dream to work with that group of people. And I also at the same time wanted to thank my friends at Google, both for supporting me during this effort and also covering for me in the times that I was away. But there's one other group I wanted to thank, and that's my family. Yay. (Applause) I would constantly give them speeches about the safety of technology, and they weren't hearing any of it. It was super hard on them, and the only reason that my wife put up with it was because I came back incredibly happy after each of the 250 tests, and she didn't want to take that away from me. So I want to close with a story. My daughter Katelyn, my 15-year-old, she and I were in the car, and we were driving down the road, and she was sitting there, and she had this idea, and she goes, ""Dad, I've got this idea."" And so I listened to her idea and I said, ""Katelyn, that's impossible."" And she looks at me and she goes, ""Dad, after what you just did, how can you call anything impossible?"" And I laughed, and I said, ""OK, it's not impossible, it's just very, very hard."" And then I paused for a second, and I said, ""Katelyn, it may not be impossible, it may not even be very, very hard, it's just that I don't know how to do it."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我在佛羅里達的奧蘭多長大。身為航太工程師之子，我的生活就是阿波羅計畫。我們不是在後院看太空船升空，就是開車一小時到基地去看它。顯然我對太空和所有相關的事都印象深刻，但我最難忘的是當中的工程學。 大家可以看到我背後的奇景，這張照片是在國際太空站上拍的，展現了地球的一部分，這一面少有人見，也少有人研究，而且幾乎無人探索過。那個地方就稱為平流層。 如果你從地表開始一路不斷向上爬升，會變得越來越冷，直到你抵達平流層下端，就會發生一件神奇的事。變冷的速度慢多了，然後會開始變暖和，變得越來越暖，直到你不需任何防護也能活下來的程度，大概是零度，然後你又會變得越來越冷，就到了平流層頂。那是地球上極少人能前往的地方。如果有人能到那裡，通常都是太空人被發射上去，大概比音速快幾倍，向上經過的時間就幾秒，然後他們回來的時候會有一團火球，在回程途中。 我想問的是，有可能在平流層停留嗎？有可能在平流層體驗看看嗎？有可能在平流層探險嗎？我打了通電話—— 我用最喜歡的搜尋引擎研究這件事持續了一陣子，大概一年，後來我打了一通很嚇人的電話。朋友推薦我打給泰伯．麥卡倫，完美太空發展公司的那位，我問他：有可能建造能進入平流層的裝置嗎？他說可以。大概有三年的時間，我們持續朝那個方向努力。去年 10 月 24 日，我穿上這套服裝，從地面開始，乘著氣球向上升 42.42 公里，管它的，誰去算啊？ （笑聲） 回到地球的時速高達 1322 公里。降落歷經 4 分 27 秒。剩三公里的時候我打開降落傘著陸。 （掌聲） 但其實這是科學演說，是工程學演說，對我來說最不可思議的是這實驗如同泰伯所說，沒錯，我認為我們可以打造平流層服裝，更重要的是，明天過來，我們和這組團隊的核心人物談談，他們親手打造一切。他們做了一件我認為很重要的事，就是模擬水肺潛水。水肺潛水的時候，你會有一套獨立完備的系統。你需要用到的一樣也不少：氣瓶、溼式防寒衣、能見度。那潛水其實就是這套系統，我們打算將它發射到平流層裡。 這是我們三年後的成品。我們得到 ILC 多佛公司所製的一套驚人服裝。ILC 多佛公司製作了所有阿波羅計畫的太空裝，所有太空行動的服裝都由他們出產。他們從來沒有在商場上販賣，只賣給政府，但是他們賣一套給我，讓我萬分感激。我們在上面裝降落傘，安全是唯一考量。每個團隊成員都知道我有老婆和兩個小孩，一個 10 歲，一個 15 歲，我希望平安歸來。因此有一個主要降落傘和一個備用降落傘，如果我什麼都沒做的話，備用降落傘的自動啟用裝置就會開傘。這套服裝本身可以為我防寒。前面這一區有熱防護裝置，水經加熱後會環繞我全身。還有兩罐多備的氧氣瓶。即使我的服裝上有半公分的洞，那幾乎不可能發生，這套裝置還是會保護我不受到太空低壓傷害。 這套裝置的最大優點在於重量和複雜度。裝置重約 227 公斤，如果你拿它和最近飛進平流層的裝置相比，他們用的是太空艙。太空艙裡面複雜得驚人，總重約 1360 公斤，要升起 1360 公斤的東西到 42 公里高，也就是我的目標高度，需要 127 萬到 142 萬立方公尺的大氣球。因為我穿這套裝置後只有 227 公斤，我們只要五分之一大小的氣球就夠了，而且讓我們需要的發射系統變得簡易許多，和發射大氣球相較九牛一毛。 有了設備，我想帶大家回到 10 月 24 日新墨西哥州的羅斯威爾。我們這支驚人團隊在半夜起床。這是那套服裝。同樣我們會用到裝載車，馬上你就會看到，我想播放一段實際發射的影片。羅斯威爾是發射氣球的絕佳地點，更是降落傘登陸的完美地點，尤其是你要在距離起點110 公里外的地方降落。後面那台是氦氣卡車。一片漆黑。我已經花一個半小時做預先呼吸純氧了。現在大家看到服裝上場。大概要花半小時穿上這套服裝。太空人會有高級空調箱型車載他們進入發射台，而我有的是裝載車。 （笑聲） 看上面，氣球就在上面。氦氣就在裡面。這是戴夫和聯邦航空總署正在清空 24 公里的飛行空間。要登場了。 （笑聲） 那是我在揮左手。我揮左手是因為右手負責逃生脫離裝置。 （笑聲） 我的團隊禁止我用右手。往上的旅程很美，有點像是反向的 Google 地球。 （笑聲） 向上花了兩小時又七分鐘，是最平和的兩小時又七分鐘。我一直在試著放鬆。我的心跳很慢，試著不要用太多氧氣。你可以看到背後的田野這時候看起來還蠻大的，可以看得出來我一路向上。 這裡很有趣，因為你會看到我就在機場上方，大概 15 公里高，但是馬上我就要進入平流層風了，時速大約 193 公里。這是我的飛航指引儀，顯示我剛超越無人曾用氣球抵達的高度，大概再 1.22 公里我就要釋放了，看起來就像那樣。你可以看到太空的漆黑，地球的曲線，下方脆弱的星球。我當時正在心裡默練逃生程序，如果有什麼意外的話，我想做好準備。這裡我主要想做的事情就是釋放、墜落，完全保持穩定。 （影片）地面控制。全員預備。五、四、三、二、一。 尤斯塔斯：氣球從旁邊飛走，當時已經完全沒有氣了。那裡有個阻力傘，我馬上會示範操作，因為那真的很重要。氣球第二次飄過去了。現在我的速度和音速相當。我無從判斷那是音速，就快到我最高速的時刻了，大約時速 1322 公里。 （影片）地面控制：我們看不見數據了。 尤：現在我向下降，基本上你們可以看到降落傘從那邊打開。這個時候，我很高興有個降落傘打開了。我以為我是唯一高興的人，但任務管制小組都很開心。這一刻最棒的是我打開…我有個好友李奇斯，和我一起玩降落傘的夥伴。他從另一台飛機上跳下來，就降落在我旁邊。他是我降落時的得力助手。這是我著陸的樣子，但稱墜地可能比較恰當。 （笑聲） 我很不想承認，但那可以說是我著陸最差的一次。 （笑聲） （掌聲） （影片）男：還好吧？ 尤：嗨！好耶！ （笑聲） 我想告訴各位一件事情，你們之前可能沒在影片上看到，但整件事最關鍵的部分就是那個釋放，還有釋放之後馬上發生的事。我們嘗試要用的東西稱為阻力傘，阻力傘的功能是讓我保持穩定。我現在示範給大家看。如果你們有人試過高空跳傘，大概就會用這個。但帶一個這種傘的問題是你釋放時的重力是零。因此這東西很容易就會繞著你轉，在你發現之前，可能就已經被纏住或在旋轉了，也有可能你太慢釋放這個阻力傘，無論哪種情況你都會以近 1,300 公里的時速下降，這東西就會自行毀壞，變得沒有多大用處。但是聯合降落傘技術公司想出一個辦法，就是用像那樣的滾輪，注意看我拉出來之後的樣子。它會形成一條管子，這條管子很硬，硬到你可以抓住阻力傘，然後繞著它轉，而且它也不可能會纏住你，這可以避免非常嚴重的問題發生。 沒有絕佳團隊就什麼事也辦不成。這件事的核心人物大約有 20 位，一起合作這個計畫三年，他們都非常傑出。大家問我這整件事最棒的部分是什麼，就是有機會和最卓越的專家合作，無論是在氣象學、乘氣球飛行和降落傘技術、環境系統，還是高海拔醫學的專家。真的很不可思議，和那群人合作是工程師的夢想。同時我也想要感謝在 Google 的朋友，他們在我努力期間支持我、在我離開的時候代理我的工作。我還想感謝另一組團隊，就是我的家人。耶！ （掌聲） 我之前一直滔滔不絕跟他們說技術安全的事，他們根本不聽。這對他們超難的，我太太能忍受的唯一原因是因為歷經 250 次測試，我每次回來心情都非常好，她不想壞了我的好心情。在結束前我想分享一個故事。我的女兒凱特琳，15 歲，她和我在車上，我們在路上開車，她坐在我旁邊，她有個想法就跟我說：「爸，我有個想法。」我聽完之後就說：「凱特琳，這件事不可能。」她看著我說：「爸，在你做了那件事之後，怎麼還會說有什麼事是不可能的？」我笑著說：「好啦，不是不可能，只是非常、非常難。」我停了一秒之後說：「凱特琳，也許不是不可能，也許不是非常、非常難，只是我不知道要怎麼做而已。」 謝謝。 （掌聲）
