Talk	en	zh-tw
alan_russell_on_regenerating_our_bodies	"I'm going to talk to you today about hopefully converting fear into hope. When we go to the physician today — when we go to the doctor's office and we walk in, there are words that we just don't want to hear. There are words that we're truly afraid of. Diabetes, cancer, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, heart failure, lung failure — things that we know are debilitating diseases, for which there's relatively little that can be done. And what I want to lay out for you today is a different way of thinking about how to treat debilitating disease, why it's important, why without it perhaps our health care system will melt down if you think it already hasn't, and where we are clinically today, and where we might go tomorrow, and what some of the hurdles are. And we're going to do all of that in 18 minutes, I promise. I want to start with this slide, because this slide sort of tells the story the way Science Magazine thinks of it. This was an issue from 2002 that they published with a lot of different articles on the bionic human. It was basically a regenerative medicine issue. Regenerative medicine is an extraordinarily simple concept that everybody can understand. It's simply accelerating the pace at which the body heals itself to a clinically relevant timescale. So we know how to do this in many of the ways that are up there. We know that if we have a damaged hip, you can put an artificial hip in. And this is the idea that Science Magazine used on their front cover. This is the complete antithesis of regenerative medicine. This is not regenerative medicine. Regenerative medicine is what Business Week put up when they did a story about regenerative medicine not too long ago. The idea is that instead of figuring out how to ameliorate symptoms with devices and drugs and the like — and I'll come back to that theme a few times — instead of doing that, we will regenerate lost function of the body by regenerating the function of organs and damaged tissue. So that at the end of the treatment, you are the same as you were at the beginning of the treatment. Very few good ideas — if you agree that this is a good idea — very few good ideas are truly novel. And this is just the same. If you look back in history, Charles Lindbergh, who was better known for flying airplanes, was actually one of the first people along with Alexis Carrel, one of the Nobel Laureates from Rockefeller, to begin to think about, could you culture organs? And they published this book in 1937, where they actually began to think about, what could you do in bio-reactors to grow whole organs? We've come a long way since then. I'm going to share with you some of the exciting work that's going on. But before doing that, what I'd like to do is share my depression about the health care system and the need for this with you. Many of the talks yesterday talked about improving the quality of life, and reducing poverty, and essentially increasing life expectancy all around the globe. One of the challenges is that the richer we are, the longer we live. And the longer we live, the more expensive it is to take care of our diseases as we get older. This is simply the wealth of a country versus the percent of population over the age of 65. And you can basically see that the richer a country is, the older the people are within it. Why is this important? And why is this a particularly dramatic challenge right now? If the average age of your population is 30, then the average kind of disease that you have to treat is maybe a broken ankle every now and again, maybe a little bit of asthma. If the average age in your country is 45 to 55, now the average person is looking at diabetes, early-onset diabetes, heart failure, coronary artery disease — things that are inherently more difficult to treat, and much more expensive to treat. Just have a look at the demographics in the U.S. here. This is from ""The Untied States of America."" In 1930, there were 41 workers per retiree. 41 people who were basically outside of being really sick, paying for the one retiree who was experiencing debilitating disease. In 2010, two workers per retiree in the U.S. And this is matched in every industrialized, wealthy country in the world. How can you actually afford to treat patients when the reality of getting old looks like this? This is age versus cost of health care. And you can see that right around age 45, 40 to 45, there's a sudden spike in the cost of health care. It's actually quite interesting. If you do the right studies, you can look at how much you as an individual spend on your own health care, plotted over your lifetime. And about seven years before you're about to die, there's a spike. And you can actually — (Laughter) — we won't get into that. (Laughter) There are very few things, very few things that you can really do that will change the way that you can treat these kinds of diseases and experience what I would call healthy aging. I'd suggest there are four things, and none of these things include an insurance system or a legal system. All those things do is change who pays. They don't actually change what the actual cost of the treatment is. One thing you can do is not treat. You can ration health care. We won't talk about that anymore. It's too depressing. You can prevent. Obviously a lot of monies should be put into prevention. But perhaps most interesting, to me anyway, and most important, is the idea of diagnosing a disease much earlier on in the progression, and then treating the disease to cure the disease instead of treating a symptom. Think of it in terms of diabetes, for instance. Today, with diabetes, what do we do? We diagnose the disease eventually, once it becomes symptomatic, and then we treat the symptom for 10, 20, 30, 40 years. And we do OK. Insulin's a pretty good therapy. But eventually it stops working, and diabetes leads to a predictable onset of debilitating disease. Why couldn't we just inject the pancreas with something to regenerate the pancreas early on in the disease, perhaps even before it was symptomatic? And it might be a little bit expensive at the time that we did it, but if it worked, we would truly be able to do something different. This video, I think, gets across the concept that I'm talking about quite dramatically. This is a newt re-growing its limb. If a newt can do this kind of thing, why can't we? I'll actually show you some more important features about limb regeneration in a moment. But what we're talking about in regenerative medicine is doing this in every organ system of the body, for tissues and for organs themselves. So today's reality is that if we get sick, the message is we will treat your symptoms, and you need to adjust to a new way of life. I would pose to you that tomorrow — and when tomorrow is we could debate, but it's within the foreseeable future — we will talk about regenerative rehabilitation. There's a limb prosthetic up here, similar actually one on the soldier that's come back from Iraq. There are 370 soldiers that have come back from Iraq that have lost limbs. Imagine if instead of facing that, they could actually face the regeneration of that limb. It's a wild concept. I'll show you where we are at the moment in working towards that concept. But it's applicable, again, to every organ system. How can we do that? The way to do that is to develop a conversation with the body. We need to learn to speak the body's language. And to switch on processes that we knew how to do when we were a fetus. A mammalian fetus, if it loses a limb during the first trimester of pregnancy, will re-grow that limb. So our DNA has the capacity to do these kinds of wound-healing mechanisms. It's a natural process, but it is lost as we age. In a child, before the age of about six months, if they lose their fingertip in an accident, they'll re-grow their fingertip. By the time they're five, they won't be able to do that anymore. So to engage in that conversation with the body, we need to speak the body's language. And there are certain tools in our toolbox that allow us to do this today. I'm going to give you an example of three of these tools through which to converse with the body. The first is cellular therapies. Clearly, we heal ourselves in a natural process, using cells to do most of the work. Therefore, if we can find the right cells and implant them in the body, they may do the healing. Secondly, we can use materials. We heard yesterday about the importance of new materials. If we can invent materials, design materials, or extract materials from a natural environment, then we might be able to have those materials induce the body to heal itself. And finally, we may be able to use smart devices that will offload the work of the body and allow it to heal. I'm going to show you an example of each of these, and I'm going to start with materials. Steve Badylak — who's at the University of Pittsburgh — about a decade ago had a remarkable idea. And that idea was that the small intestine of a pig, if you threw away all the cells, and if you did that in a way that allowed it to remain biologically active, may contain all of the necessary factors and signals that would signal the body to heal itself. And he asked a very important question. He asked the question, if I take that material, which is a natural material that usually induces healing in the small intestine, and I place it somewhere else on a person's body, would it give a tissue-specific response, or would it make small intestine if I tried to make a new ear? I wouldn't be telling you this story if it weren't compelling. The picture I'm about to show you is a compelling picture. (Laughter) However, for those of you that are even the slightest bit squeamish — even though you may not like to admit it in front of your friends — the lights are down. This is a good time to look at your feet, check your Blackberry, do anything other than look at the screen. (Laughter) What I'm about to show you is a diabetic ulcer. And although — it's good to laugh before we look at this. This is the reality of diabetes. I think a lot of times we hear about diabetics, diabetic ulcers, we just don't connect the ulcer with the eventual treatment, which is amputation, if you can't heal it. So I'm going to put the slide up now. It won't be up for long. This is a diabetic ulcer. It's tragic. The treatment for this is amputation. This is an older lady. She has cancer of the liver as well as diabetes, and has decided to die with what' s left of her body intact. And this lady decided, after a year of attempted treatment of that ulcer, that she would try this new therapy that Steve invented. That's what the wound looked like 11 weeks later. That material contained only natural signals. And that material induced the body to switch back on a healing response that it didn't have before. There's going to be a couple more distressing slides for those of you — I'll let you know when you can look again. This is a horse. The horse is not in pain. If the horse was in pain, I wouldn't show you this slide. The horse just has another nostril that's developed because of a riding accident. Just a few weeks after treatment — in this case, taking that material, turning it into a gel, and packing that area, and then repeating the treatment a few times — and the horse heals up. And if you took an ultrasound of that area, it would look great. Here's a dolphin where the fin's been re-attached. There are now 400,000 patients around the world who have used that material to heal their wounds. Could you regenerate a limb? DARPA just gave Steve 15 million dollars to lead an eight-institution project to begin the process of asking that question. And I'll show you the 15 million dollar picture. This is a 78 year-old man who's lost the end of his fingertip. Remember that I mentioned before the children who lose their fingertips. After treatment that's what it looks like. This is happening today. This is clinically relevant today. There are materials that do this. Here are the heart patches. But could you go a little further? Could you, say, instead of using material, can I take some cells along with the material, and remove a damaged piece of tissue, put a bio-degradable material on there? You can see here a little bit of heart muscle beating in a dish. This was done by Teruo Okano at Tokyo Women's Hospital. He can actually grow beating tissue in a dish. He chills the dish, it changes its properties and he peels it right out of the dish. It's the coolest stuff. Now I'm going to show you cell-based regeneration. And what I'm going to show you here is stem cells being removed from the hip of a patient. Again, if you're squeamish, you don't want to watch. But this one's kind of cool. So this is a bypass operation, just like what Al Gore had, with a difference. In this case, at the end of the bypass operation, you're going to see the stem cells from the patient that were removed at the beginning of the procedure being injected directly into the heart of the patient. And I'm standing up here because at one point I'm going to show you just how early this technology is. Here go the stem cells, right into the beating heart of the patient. And if you look really carefully, it's going to be right around this point you'll actually see a back-flush. You see the cells coming back out. We need all sorts of new technology, new devices, to get the cells to the right place at the right time. Just a little bit of data, a tiny bit of data. This was a randomized trial. At this time this was an N of 20. Now there's an N of about 100. Basically, if you take an extremely sick patient and you give them a bypass, they get a little bit better. If you give them stem cells as well as their bypass, for these particular patients, they became asymptomatic. These are now two years out. The coolest thing would be is if you could diagnose the disease early, and prevent the onset of the disease to a bad state. This is the same procedure, but now done minimally invasively, with only three holes in the body where they're taking the heart and simply injecting stem cells through a laparoscopic procedure. There go the cells. We don't have time to go into all of those details, but basically, that works too. You can take patients who are less sick, and bring them back to an almost asymptomatic state through that kind of therapy. Here's another example of stem-cell therapy that isn't quite clinical yet, but I think very soon will be. This is the work of Kacey Marra from Pittsburgh, along with a number of colleagues around the world. They've decided that liposuction fluid, which — in the United States, we have a lot of liposuction fluid. (Laughter) It's a great source of stem cells. Stem cells are packed in that liposuction fluid. So you could go in, you could get your tummy-tuck. Out comes the liposuction fluid, and in this case, the stem cells are isolated and turned into neurons. All done in the lab. And I think fairly soon, you will see patients being treated with their own fat-derived, or adipose-derived, stem cells. I talked before about the use of devices to dramatically change the way we treat disease. Here's just one example before I close up. This is equally tragic. We have a very abiding and heartbreaking partnership with our colleagues at the Institute for Surgical Research in the US Army, who have to treat the now 11,000 kids that have come back from Iraq. Many of those patients are very severely burned. And if there's anything that's been learned about burn, it's that we don't know how to treat it. Everything that is done to treat burn — basically we do a sodding approach. We make something over here, and then we transplant it onto the site of the wound, and we try and get the two to take. In this case here, a new, wearable bio-reactor has been designed — it should be tested clinically later this year at ISR — by Joerg Gerlach in Pittsburgh. And that bio-reactor will lay down in the wound bed. The gun that you see there sprays cells. That's going to spray cells over that area. The reactor will serve to fertilize the environment, deliver other things as well at the same time, and therefore we will seed that lawn, as opposed to try the sodding approach. It's a completely different way of doing it. So my 18 minutes is up. So let me finish up with some good news, and maybe a little bit of bad news. The good news is that this is happening today. It's very powerful work. Clearly the images kind of get that across. It's incredibly difficult because it's highly inter-disciplinary. Almost every field of science engineering and clinical practice is involved in trying to get this to happen. A number of governments, and a number of regions, have recognized that this is a new way to treat disease. The Japanese government were perhaps the first, when they decided to invest first 3 billion, later another 2 billion in this field. It's no coincidence. Japan is the oldest country on earth in terms of its average age. They need this to work or their health system dies. So they're putting a lot of strategic investment focused in this area. The European Union, same thing. China, the same thing. China just launched a national tissue-engineering center. The first year budget was 250 million US dollars. In the United States we've had a somewhat different approach. (Laughter) Oh, for Al Gore to come and be in the real world as president. We've had a different approach. And the approach has basically been to just sort of fund things as they come along. But there's been no strategic investment to bring all of the necessary things to bear and focus them in a careful way. And I'm going to finish up with a quote, maybe a little cheap shot, at the director of the NIH, who's a very charming man. Myself and Jay Vacanti from Harvard went to visit with him and a number of his directors of his institute just a few months ago, to try and convince him that it was time to take just a little piece of that 27.5 billion dollars that he's going to get next year and focus it, in a strategic way, to make sure we can accelerate the pace at which these things get to patients. And at the end of a very testy meeting, what the NIH director said was, ""Your vision is larger than our appetite."" I'd like to close by saying that no one's going to change our vision, but together we can change his appetite. Thank you."	今天我所要談的主題期盼能在未來化恐懼為希望我們去看醫生的時候當我們走進診療室有些話是我們不想聽到的有些字讓我們深深恐懼像是糖尿病、癌症、帕金森氏症、阿茲海默症心臟衰竭、肺衰竭這些都是大家熟知的衰退性疾病對於這些疾病我們卻束手無策 今天我所要分享的是用新的角度來思考衰退性疾病的療法這為什麼重要、又為什麼少了它醫療體系將會瓦解要是你認為醫療體系現在還沒走到這一步還有目前的臨床成果和可能的未來走向有哪些困難需要克服我保證一定會在 18 分鐘內全部講完 讓我從這張投影片開始因為這張投影片反映出「科學」期刊的看法這一期發刊於 2002 年裡面發表了各種有關生化人的文章基本上就是再生醫學專題再生醫學其實是個非常簡單的概念一般人都能理解就是加快人體自我修復的速度達到在臨床上合理的時間範圍目前我們已知可行的方法很多，都在這裡我們知道要是髖關節損壞，就裝人工髖關節這就是這期 「科學」 期刊的封面所要表達的想法 其實這跟再生醫學完全相反這不是再生醫學這本「商業周刊」討論的才是再生醫學不久前，他們刊出一篇有關再生醫學的文章想法是與其想辦法改善症狀用醫學裝置或藥物等等的這主題我們會不斷回頭討論與其這麼做，我們不如重建身體失去的功能做法是重建損壞的器官和組織如此一來，診程結束後我們的身體就回到治療前的狀態 好點子還真的不多，如果你們也覺得這想法不錯真正創新的好點子很少就像我要討論的議題一樣要是我們回想歷史以飛越大西洋成名的查爾斯．林白其實正是先驅者之一還有洛克斐勒醫學研究機構的諾貝爾醫學獎得主艾利克斯．卡萊爾就是他們開始思考，人工培養器官是否可行?而且在1937 年出版了這本書在書中他們甚至開始考慮要如何在生物反應器中培養出一整個器官?到了今天，我們已經有了長足進步我現在要跟大家分享的是一些進行中的研究 但是在這之前，我想先與大家分享我對現今醫療體系的悲觀想法以及再生醫學的必要性昨天的講題很多都談論到提升生活品質和減少貧窮發生以及真正延長全球人口的壽命難題之一就是我們越富裕，壽命就越長但壽命越長，開銷就越大醫療照護的開銷跟壽命延長成正比 這是一張探討國家的富裕程度與 65 歲以上人口比例相關性的圖很明顯可以看出，國家越富有國民壽命就越長這為什麼重要？又為什麼是當下最嚴峻的考驗?如果人口平均年齡是 30 歲那麼一般需要醫療的疾病可能是三不五時扭傷腳踝也許加上點氣喘要是國家的平均年齡是 45 到 55 歲那麼普遍的疾病可能是糖尿病早發性糖尿病、心臟衰竭、心血管疾病這些疾病的治癒難度本來就較高且醫療成本也高出許多 來看一下這份美國人口統計資料擷取自「The Untied States of America」這本書在 1930 年間，每 41 個勞力人口中就有 1 個退休這 41 個身體沒有嚴重疾病的人僅需負擔這 1 個退休人口治療衰退性疾病的費用到了 2010 年，每兩個勞力人口中就有 1 人退休而且全球各工業化的富裕國家都是如此我們要如何才能負擔醫療成本？要是老化所要面對的現實就是如此？ 這張圖顯示年齡與醫療照護成本之間的關係可以看出大約在 45 歲，40 到 45 歲的區間醫療照護成本急遽上升這其實相當有趣，在適當的統計研究下我們可以看出自己在人生各個階段所需的醫療成本而且在死亡前 7 年會出現一個高峰我們還可以...(笑聲)...我們還是不要討論這些(笑聲) 其實我們真正能做的很有限要改變這些疾病的治療方式同時享受我所謂的「健康老化」我想提出 4 個想法而且都跟壽險和立法無關僅僅是改變只是負擔費用的對象實際需要的醫療成本不變 我們的選擇之一就是不治療，也可以配給醫療資源我們不要再討論這方面，實在太令人沮喪了。我們可以預防當然我們應該要在預防上投入許多經費 不過最有趣也最重要的想法可能是儘早在症狀惡化的過程中診斷進而根治疾病而不是只對症下藥以糖尿病為例現在我們如何治療糖尿病?我們要到出現症狀才能診斷出疾病然後再花 10、20、30、40 年來對症下藥結果還算可以，胰島素注射是個不錯的療法不過它終究會就失去藥效而且糖尿病一定會併發衰退性疾病 為什麼我們不在發病初期就注射物質到胰臟促進胰臟再生，或甚至在症狀出現前就這麼做呢?這種治療一開始可能貴一點不過一旦成功，我們就真正能開始嘗試變通 我覺得這段影片清楚的表達我想傳達的概念這是一隻在進行肢體再生的蠑螈蠑螈做得到，為什麼我們不能?待會我會讓大家看一些更重要的有關肢體再生的報導但是在再生醫學中討論的是重建體內所有的器官系統無論是針對組織和器官在現實中，要是生病了醫生會治療我們的症狀而且我們必須適應新的生活方式 我想要讓大家看看未來雖然還沒辦法確定「未來」何時會來不過，應該不用等太久我想談談再生復健這是個義肢跟從戰地回來的士兵所用的類似有 370 位剛從伊拉克返國的士兵手腳截肢試想與其截肢, 他們其實可以重建完整的四肢這是個很瘋狂的想法我將展示這個想法目前的進展 再次強調，這可以適用於任何器官要怎麼做到呢？作法是與身體建立良好的溝通我們必須學習了解人體的各種訊息且要開啟胎兒時期曾經擁有的再生能力哺乳類動物的胎兒在懷孕期的頭三個月失去的手腳可以重新長出來因此我們的 DNA 中就有這種癒合機制這是個自然的過程卻隨著年齡增長而流失一個未滿 6 個月的嬰兒要是意外割斷了指尖可以重新長回來不過到了 5 歲，他們就失去這種能力 為了能夠找回這樣的能力我們必須學會解讀身體的訊息以下是一些目前正在使用的技術我會介紹其中的 3 種透過這些技術我們可以與身體溝通 第一個是細胞療法這顯然是利用癒合的自然程序用細胞進行大部分的癒合工作因此，只要找到適合的細胞然後植入人體，或許就能成功第二種我們可以使用材料昨天的講題告訴我們新材料的重要性如果我們能從自然界合成、設計或提煉出新的材料或許就可以利用這些材料來誘發身體的癒合功能最後, 我們也許可以利用一些精巧的裝置分擔身體的負擔同時讓它自行癒合 我會針對各種技術舉例先從材料開始匹茲堡大學的學者史提夫.巴迪萊大約在 10 年前提出一個很高明的想法他想利用豬的小腸要是能夠剝除小腸上所有的細胞同時維持其生物活性可能可以保存必要的因子和訊號啟動身體的自我癒合能力他同時提出一個非常重要的問題他的問題是這種天然的材料放在小腸通常可以誘發小腸的癒合要是放在人體的其他地方是否可以針對不同組織引發正確的修復反應還是只對小腸有用，換成耳朵就沒用了？ 我舉的例子一定夠嚇人接下來我要展示的圖片 — 膽小者不宜 —(笑聲)是很嚇人的照片不過對於那些膽子很小的人即使你們可能不想在朋友面前承認燈光變暗了，剛好可以低頭不看看看手機，做什麼都好，就是不要看螢幕（笑聲） 我要展示的是糖尿病足部潰瘍的照片不過看到照片以後可能就笑不出來了這就是糖尿病的真實狀況我想大家常聽到糖尿病、糖尿病潰瘍卻不會把潰瘍和醫療上的終極手段聯想在一起要是治療無效，終極手段就是截肢我現在要放上投影片，不過不會放太久這就是糖尿病足部潰瘍，真可怕唯一的療法就是截肢這是一位患有肝癌和糖尿病的老婦人她希望在死的時候盡量維持身體完整 所以治療潰瘍一年後她決定嘗試史提夫發明的新療法傷口經過 11 個星期治療之後變成這個樣子這個材料只含有天然的訊息因子而且可以誘發身體重新啟動從前沒有的癒合反應 接下來還有一些更令人不舒服的照片等到可以轉過頭的時候，我會叫大家這是一匹馬。它並不感覺痛要是它會痛，我就不會讓大家看這張投影片這匹馬已經重建了新的鼻腔它因為一次騎乘意外而受傷治療幾星期後這個案例是將新材料製成膠狀物包覆整個受傷區域並重複幾次療程然後傷口就癒合了超音波檢查顯示癒合區的狀況非常好 這是一隻重新接合魚鰭的海豚現在全球已經有 40 萬名病患使用這種新材料來癒合傷口肢體再生還是天方夜譚嗎？美國國防部先進研究計劃機構剛撥出 1500 萬補助一項 8 個研究機構參與的聯合計畫開始嘗試探索這個問題 我將要大家看看價值 1500 萬的照片這位 78歲的男子失去了指尖還記得我之前提到幼兒指尖的再生能力這是接受治療後的樣子現在就能做到現在在臨床上可以做到其他新的材料也有同樣的功能。 這是心肌修補 還能更進一步的治療嗎？試想除了使用新的材料外我們是否可以拿一些細胞結合材料清除損害的組織之後在患部放上人體可自行分解的材料？你可以看到在培養皿裡有一小塊正在跳動的心肌這是由東京婦女醫院的岡野照雄所完成的他真的可以在培養皿裡培養出跳動的心臟組織先透過冰鎮培養皿改變組織的特性然後將組織從培養皿中取下這真是酷斃了 現在我們來談談細胞療法我要給大家看的是由患者的臀部取出幹細胞再次提醒，要是你很膽小還是別看了不過這個也很酷這是一個心臟繞道手術，就是高爾剛做完的的那種不同的是這個案例手術的最後階段你將看到病患體內的幹細胞在手術開始時取出的幹細胞被直接注入病患心臟我站到上面來是因為稍後能看到細胞植入我要讓大家看看這個技術還在初期階段現在幹細胞直接注入病患還在跳動的心臟如果大家仔細看大概就在這裡會看到滲出液體那是幹細胞被排出來我們需要各種新的技術和裝置設法在正確的時間將細胞注入正確的部位 我這裡有一點資料，只是一點點這是個隨機的試驗當時只有樣本只有 20 個，現在已經累積到 100 個了基本上，如果一個重病患者接受了繞道手術，情況會稍微好轉要是他們同時接受幹細胞治療這些特定病患症狀會完全消失這個數據已經是兩年前的了最棒的是能早期診斷出疾病並預防疾病惡化的可能性 這手術跟剛剛類似，但只有最低的侵入程度只要在心臟需手術的部位開 3 個孔然後利用內視鏡手術注入幹細胞現在幹細胞植入我沒有時間詳細說明但基本上這個方法是可行的症狀較輕的病患可以復原到幾乎無症狀的情況只要接受這種手術治療 這裡有另一個尚未進入臨床試驗的幹細胞療法我想不久後會進行這是匹茲堡大學的凱西 . 瑪拉的研究成果她與世界各地的科學家合作她們認為抽脂手術取出的脂肪液體我想美國最多的就是脂肪液(笑聲)這其實是很好的幹細胞來源脂肪液中有許多幹細胞所以去整型診所抽個脂就能有了這些脂肪液體在這個案例中，幹細胞被分離出來轉成神經元全部都在實驗室完成的我想在不久之後就能有患者接受治療用他們體內脂肪或脂質細胞取出的幹細胞 我也提到過用精密儀器顛覆治療疾病的方式在我總結前再提最後一個例子這是件令人遺憾的事我們與一位在美軍手術研究機構的同事經歷長久但過程卻令人難過的合作關係他負責治療 1 萬 1 千名剛從伊拉克回來的年輕人其中很多都嚴重燒傷 不過，要說我們燒傷的認識就是目前無法治癒目前治療燒燙傷的方法是使用皮膚移植我們從某個部位取下皮膚再移植到燒傷的區域然後試著讓它們相容這個案例設計出可以貼在人體上的新生物反應器年底 ISR 應該就會進行臨床試驗由匹茲堡大學的耶格 . 葛萊克主持這種生物反應器會鋪在傷口上大家看到的噴槍則會噴上細胞將細胞均勻噴灑在傷口上生物反應器會供應細胞養分同時也是物質運輸流動的管道藉此提供細胞適宜的生長環境與皮膚移植兩相比較是個全然不同的方法 我的 18 分鐘時間到了讓我用一個好消息做結尾或許有一小部分還是壞消息好消息是這些技術現在就能做到這項工程作用強大那些照片很顯然讓大家體會到這點不過卻因為是高度跨領域的工作而難度頗高幾乎所有科學領域及臨床醫學都牽涉到了要一起嘗試讓想法成真 有一些國家和許多地區已經體認到這是一種治療疾病的新方式日本政府應該是第一個決定先在這個領域投入 30 億資金然後再加碼 20 億這是必然的趨勢日本是世界上平均壽命最高國家之一因此需要讓這項研究成功，才能維持其醫療系統所以在這個領域砸下很多策略性的投資在歐盟也一樣中國也是中國的國家組織工程研究中心才剛落成第一年的研究預算就有 2 億 5 千萬美元 美國的作法，則是有點不同。我們...(笑聲)天啊，真希望高爾是美國總統！我們的作法不同基本上就是順水推舟補助而沒有策略性投資來負擔必要的研究條件並謹慎聚焦使用 我將引用一段對話做結，可能有點惡毒NIH 美國衛生研究機構的主持人，人很親切我與哈佛大學的傑 . 福肯帝拜訪了他跟其他幾位機構裡的主任大概就是幾個月前我們試著說服他時候到了他可以從明年編列的 275 億預算中撥一小部分補助我們用策略性方法，把錢專門用來加快研究腳步讓病患早日受益在這個火藥味很重的會面最後NIH 的主持人只說「我們的胃口太小，吞不下你們偉大的理想」我想我最後要說的就是，沒有人可以改變我們的理想不過，我們合力就能撐大他的胃口謝謝
