Talk	en	zh-tw
alex_steffen_sees_a_sustainable_future	"When I'm starting talks like this, I usually do a whole spiel about sustainability because a lot of people out there don't know what that is. This is a crowd that does know what it is, so I'll like just do like the 60-second crib-note version. Right? So just bear with me. We'll go real fast, you know? Fill in the blanks. So, you know, sustainability, small planet. Right? Picture a little Earth, circling around the sun. You know, about a million years ago, a bunch of monkeys fell out of trees, got a little clever, harnessed fire, invented the printing press, made, you know, luggage with wheels on it. And, you know, built the society that we now live in. Unfortunately, while this society is, without a doubt, the most prosperous and dynamic the world has ever created, it's got some major, major flaws. One of them is that every society has an ecological footprint. It has an amount of impact on the planet that's measurable. How much stuff goes through your life, how much waste is left behind you. And we, at the moment, in our society, have a really dramatically unsustainable level of this. We're using up about five planets. If everybody on the planet lived the way we did, we'd need between five, six, seven, some people even say 10 planets to make it. Clearly we don't have 10 planets. Again, you know, mental, visual, 10 planets, one planet, 10 planets, one planet. Right? We don't have that. So that's one problem. The second problem is that the planet that we have is being used in wildly unfair ways. Right? North Americans, such as myself, you know, we're basically sort of wallowing, gluttonous hogs, and we're eating all sorts of stuff. And, you know, then you get all the way down to people who live in the Asia-Pacific region, or even more, Africa. And people simply do not have enough to survive. This is producing all sorts of tensions, all sorts of dynamics that are deeply disturbing. And there's more and more people on the way. Right? So, this is what the planet's going to look like in 20 years. It's going to be a pretty crowded place, at least eight billion people. So to make matters even more difficult, it's a very young planet. A third of the people on this planet are kids. And those kids are growing up in a completely different way than their parents did, no matter where they live. They've been exposed to this idea of our society, of our prosperity. And they may not want to live exactly like us. They may not want to be Americans, or Brits, or Germans, or South Africans, but they want their own version of a life which is more prosperous, and more dynamic, and more, you know, enjoyable. And all of these things combine to create an enormous amount of torque on the planet. And if we cannot figure out a way to deal with that torque, we are going to find ourselves more and more and more quickly facing situations which are simply unthinkable. Everybody in this room has heard the worst-case scenarios. I don't need to go into that. But I will ask the question, what's the alternative? And I would say that, at the moment, the alternative is unimaginable. You know, so on the one hand we have the unthinkable; on the other hand we have the unimaginable. We don't know yet how to build a society which is environmentally sustainable, which is shareable with everybody on the planet, which promotes stability and democracy and human rights, and which is achievable in the time-frame necessary to make it through the challenges we face. We don't know how to do this yet. So what's Worldchanging? Well, Worldchanging you might think of as being a bit of a news service for the unimaginable future. You know, what we're out there doing is looking for examples of tools, models and ideas, which, if widely adopted, would change the game. A lot of times, when I do a talk like this, I talk about things that everybody in this room I'm sure has already heard of, but most people haven't. So I thought today I'd do something a little different, and talk about what we're looking for, rather than saying, you know, rather than giving you tried-and-true examples. Talk about the kinds of things we're scoping out. Give you a little peek into our editorial notebook. And given that I have 13 minutes to do this, this is going to go kind of quick. So, I don't know, just stick with me. Right? So, first of all, what are we looking for? Bright Green city. One of the biggest levers that we have in the developed world for changing the impact that we have on the planet is changing the way that we live in cities. We're already an urban planet; that's especially true in the developed world. And people who live in cities in the developed world tend to be very prosperous, and thus use a lot of stuff. If we can change the dynamic, by first of all creating cities that are denser and more livable ... Here, for example, is Vancouver, which if you haven't been there, you ought to go for a visit. It's a fabulous city. And they are doing density, new density, better than probably anybody else on the planet right now. They're actually managing to talk North Americans out of driving cars, which is a pretty great thing. So you have density. You also have growth management. You leave aside what is natural to be natural. This is in Portland. That is an actual development. That land there will remain pasture in perpetuity. They've bounded the city with a line. Nature, city. Nothing changes. Once you do those things, you can start making all sorts of investments. You can start doing things like, you know, transit systems that actually work to transport people, in effective and reasonably comfortable manners. You can also start to change what you build. This is the Beddington Zero Energy Development in London, which is one of the greenest buildings in the world. It's a fabulous place. We're able to now build buildings that generate all their own electricity, that recycle much of their water, that are much more comfortable than standard buildings, use all-natural light, etc., and, over time, cost less. Green roofs. Bill McDonough covered that last night, so I won't dwell on that too much. But once you also have people living in close proximity to each other, one of the things you can do is — as information technologies develop — you can start to have smart places. You can start to know where things are. When you know where things are, it becomes easier to share them. When you share them, you end up using less. So one great example is car-share clubs, which are really starting to take off in the U.S., have already taken off in many places in Europe, and are a great example. If you're somebody who drives, you know, one day a week, do you really need your own car? Another thing that information technology lets us do is start figuring out how to use less stuff by knowing, and by monitoring, the amount we're actually using. So, here's a power cord which glows brighter the more energy that you use, which I think is a pretty cool concept, although I think it ought to work the other way around, that it gets brighter the more you don't use. But, you know, there may even be a simpler approach. We could just re-label things. This light switch that reads, on the one hand, flashfloods, and on the other hand, off. How we build things can change as well. This is a bio-morphic building. It takes its inspiration in form from life. Many of these buildings are incredibly beautiful, and also much more effective. This is an example of bio-mimicry, which is something we're really starting to look a lot more for. In this case, you have a shell design which was used to create a new kind of exhaust fan, which is greatly more effective. There's a lot of this stuff happening; it's really pretty remarkable. I encourage you to look on Worldchanging if you're into it. We're starting to cover this more and more. There's also neo-biological design, where more and more we're actually using life itself and the processes of life to become part of our industry. So this, for example, is hydrogen-generating algae. So we have a model in potential, an emerging model that we're looking for of how to take the cities most of us live in, and turn them into Bright Green cities. But unfortunately, most of the people on the planet don't live in the cites we live in. They live in the emerging megacities of the developing world. And there's a statistic I often like to use, which is that we're adding a city of Seattle every four days, a city the size of Seattle to the planet every four days. I was giving a talk about two months ago, and this guy, who'd done some work with the U.N., came up to me and was really flustered, and he said, look, you've got that totally wrong; it's totally wrong. It's every seven days. So, we're adding a city the size of Seattle every seven days, and most of those cities look more like this than the city that you or I live in. Most of those cites are growing incredibly quickly. They don't have existing infrastructure; they have enormous numbers of people who are struggling with poverty, and enormous numbers of people are trying to figure out how to do things in new ways. So what do we need in order to make developing nation megacities into Bright Green megacities? Well, the first thing we need is, we need leapfrogging. And this is one of the things that we are looking for everywhere. The idea behind leapfrogging is that if you are a person, or a country, who is stuck in a situation where you don't have the tools and technologies that you need, there's no reason for you to invest in last generation's technologies. Right? That you're much better off, almost universally, looking for a low-cost or locally applicable version of the newest technology. One place we're all familiar with seeing this is with cell phones. Right? All throughout the developing world, people are going directly to cell phones, skipping the whole landline stage. If there are landlines in many developing world cities, they're usually pretty crappy systems that break down a lot and cost enormous amounts of money. So I rather like this picture here. I particularly like the Ganesh in the background, talking on the cell phone. So what we have, increasingly, is cell phones just permeating out through society. We've heard all about this here this week, so I won't say too much more than that, other than to say what is true for cell phones is true for all sorts of technologies. The second thing is tools for collaboration, be they systems of collaboration, or intellectual property systems which encourage collaboration. Right? When you have free ability for people to freely work together and innovate, you get different kinds of solutions. And those solutions are accessible in a different way to people who don't have capital. Right? So, you know, we have open source software, we have Creative Commons and other kinds of Copyleft solutions. And those things lead to things like this. This is a Telecentro in Sao Paulo. This is a pretty remarkable program using free and open source software, cheap, sort of hacked-together machines, and basically sort of abandoned buildings — has put together a bunch of community centers where people can come in, get high-speed internet access, learn computer programming skills for free. And a quarter-million people every year use these now in Sao Paulo. And those quarter-million people are some of the poorest people in Sao Paolo. I particularly like the little Linux penguin in the back. (Laughter) So one of the things that that's leading to is a sort of southern cultural explosion. And one of the things we're really, really interested in at Worldchanging is the ways in which the south is re-identifying itself, and re-categorizing itself in ways that have less and less to do with most of us in this room. So it's not, you know, Bollywood isn't just answering Hollywood. Right? You know, Brazilian music scene isn't just answering the major labels. It's doing something new. There's new things happening. There's interplay between them. And, you know, you get amazing things. Like, I don't know if any of you have seen the movie ""City of God?"" Yeah, it's a fabulous movie if you haven't seen it. And it's all about this question, in a very artistic and indirect kind of way. You have other radical examples where the ability to use cultural tools is spreading out. These are people who have just been visited by the Internet bookmobile in Uganda. And who are waving their first books in the air, which, I just think that's a pretty cool picture. You know? So you also have the ability for people to start coming together and acting on their own behalf in political and civic ways, in ways that haven't happened before. And as we heard last night, as we've heard earlier this week, are absolutely, fundamentally vital to the ability to craft new solutions, is we've got to craft new political realities. And I would personally say that we have to craft new political realities, not only in places like India, Afghanistan, Kenya, Pakistan, what have you, but here at home as well. Another world is possible. And sort of the big motto of the anti-globalization movement. Right? We tweak that a lot. We talk about how another world isn't just possible; another world's here. That it's not just that we have to sort of imagine there being a different, vague possibility out there, but we need to start acting a little bit more on that possibility. We need to start doing things like Lula, President of Brazil. How many people knew of Lula before today? OK, so, much, much better than the average crowd, I can tell you that. So Lula, he's full of problems, full of contradictions, but one of the things that he's doing is, he is putting forward an idea of how we engage in international relations that completely shifts the balance from the standard sort of north-south dialogue into a whole new way of global collaboration. I would keep your eye on this fellow. Another example of this sort of second superpower thing is the rise of these games that are what we call ""serious play."" We're looking a lot at this. This is spreading everywhere. This is from ""A Force More Powerful."" It's a little screenshot. ""A Force More Powerful"" is a video game that, while you're playing it, it teaches you how to engage in non-violent insurrection and regime change. (Laughter) Here's another one. This is from a game called ""Food Force,"" which is a game that teaches children how to run a refugee camp. These things are all contributing in a very dynamic way to a huge rise in, especially in the developing world, in people's interest in and passion for democracy. We get so little news about the developing world that we often forget that there are literally millions of people out there struggling to change things to be fairer, freer, more democratic, less corrupt. And, you know, we don't hear those stories enough. But it's happening all over the place, and these tools are part of what's making it possible. Now when you add all those things together, when you add together leapfrogging and new kinds of tools, you know, second superpower stuff, etc., what do you get? Well, very quickly, you get a Bright Green future for the developing world. You get, for example, green power spread throughout the world. You get — this is a building in Hyderabad, India. It's the greenest building in the world. You get grassroots solutions, things that work for people who have no capital or limited access. You get barefoot solar engineers carrying solar panels into the remote mountains. You get access to distance medicine. These are Indian nurses learning how to use PDAs to access databases that have information that they don't have access to at home in a distant manner. You get new tools for people in the developing world. These are LED lights that help the roughly billion people out there, for whom nightfall means darkness, to have a new means of operating. These are refrigerators that require no electricity; they're pot within a pot design. And you get water solutions. Water's one of the most pressing problems. Here's a design for harvesting rainwater that's super cheap and available to people in the developing world. Here's a design for distilling water using sunlight. Here's a fog-catcher, which, if you live in a moist, jungle-like area, will distill water from the air that's clean and drinkable. Here's a way of transporting water. I just love this, you know — I mean carrying water is such a drag, and somebody just came up with the idea of well, what if you rolled it. Right? I mean, that's a great design. This is a fabulous invention, LifeStraw. Basically you can suck any water through this and it will become drinkable by the time it hits your lips. So, you know, people who are in desperate straits can get this. This is one of my favorite Worldchanging kinds of things ever. This is a merry-go-round invented by the company Roundabout, which pumps water as kids play. You know? Seriously — give that one a hand, it's pretty great. And the same thing is true for people who are in absolute crisis. Right? We're expecting to have upwards of 200 million refugees by the year 2020 because of climate change and political instability. How do we help people like that? Well, there's all sorts of amazing new humanitarian designs that are being developed in collaborative ways all across the planet. Some of those designs include models for acting, such as new models for village instruction in the middle of refugee camps. New models for pedagogy for the displaced. And we have new tools. This is one of my absolute favorite things anywhere. Does anyone know what this is? Audience: It detects landmines. Alex Steffen: Exactly, this is a landmine-detecting flower. If you are living in one of the places where the roughly half-billion unaccounted for mines are scattered, you can fling these seeds out into the field. And as they grow up, they will grow up around the mines, their roots will detect the chemicals in them, and where the flowers turn red you don't step. Yeah, so seeds that could save your life. You know? (Applause) I also love it because it seems to me that the example, the tools we use to change the world, ought to be beautiful in themselves. You know, that it's not just enough to survive. We've got to make something better than what we've got. And I think that we will. Just to wrap up, in the immortal words of H.G. Wells, I think that better things are on the way. I think that, in fact, that ""all of the past is but the beginning of a beginning. All that the human mind has accomplished is but the dream before the awakening."" I hope that that turns out to be true. The people in this room have given me more confidence than ever that it will. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	當我開始這種演講的時候，我常會滔滔不絕的談論有關可持續性，因為很多人都對這個話題不熟識。這裏是一羣熟識這個話題的人，因此我只會作一個六十秒的短版。 好嗎？那請給我少許耐性。我們隨著會說得很快，填補任何不足之處。論到可持續性，我們有的是一個小行星。對嗎？ 試想一個小地球，圍繞著太陽在轉。大約在一百萬年前，一羣猴子從樹上跌下，變得有一點聰明，會利用火，發明了印刷術，把行李箱安上滑輪。並且建立了我們現在生活的社會。不幸地，當這毫無疑問地是世界上建立最興旺最有動力的社會，它卻有一些重要的瑕疵。 其中一點是每個社會都有一個生態足跡。它對地球有多大影響是可以量度得到。有多少東西在你的生活中曾出現，隨後產生了多少廢物。而我們現在這個社會有一個真正引人注目，無法持續的水平。我們消耗了約五個地球。如果地球上每個人都像我們這樣生活，我們便會需要五、六、七、甚至某些人說十個地球去支持。明顯地我們並沒有十個地球。再次想像一下，十個地球、一個地球、十個地球、一個地球．．．是嗎？我們沒有十個地球。因此那是一個問題。 第二個問題是我們有的地球正被不公平地胡亂使用，對不對？北美洲人，如我自己，我們基本像是沉溺貪嘴的豬，我們吃著各種東西。然後我們往這兒一直看到亞太區居住的人，甚至更遠至非洲。他們基本上是沒有足夠食物去生存。這導致了種種的緊張局勢，各種滋擾性的動力。而我們將會有越來越多人在這個情況。因此，廿年後的地球將會是這樣：它將是十分擁擠的地方 ﹣至少有八十億人口。 令事態更加困難的是它一個非常年輕的地球。這個地球上三分之一人口是孩子。而那些小孩不管居住在哪裏，與他們的父母生長於一個完全不同的模式。他們暴露於我們社會的意念，我們的繁榮，但他們或許不想跟我們生活得一樣。他們或許不想當美國人、或是英國人、或是德國人、或是南非人，但是他們想要更興旺、更有動力、更愉快的生活。所有這些合成了這地球上巨大的扭力。如果我們不能想出一個處理這扭力的方法，我們將會越來越發覺自己很快地要面對完全不可思議的情況。 在座的各位都聽過最惡劣的情景。我不需要再在這裏提及。但是我會問，我們有甚麼其他選擇？而在這一刻我會說， 這個選擇是難以想像。在一方面，我們有不可思議，另一方面，我們有難以想像。我們還不知道如何建立一個可持續發展的社會，可與地球上每一個人分享，可促進穏定、民主和人權，而且可於必要的期限內達到，好讓我們渡過面對的挑戰。我們還不知道該怎麼辦。 那 Worldchanging 是甚麼？你也許以為 Worldchanging 是一種為難以想像的將來而設的新聞服務。你知道嗎，我們現正在做的就是尋找工具、模式和概念的例子。如果它們得到廣泛採用，那將會改變一切。很多時候，當我作一個這樣的演講，我會談論一些肯定在座各位都聽過的事物，但其實大部份人都未曾聽過。因此今天我想我的做法會有些不同。我會談論我們在搜尋甚麼，而不是列舉一些已被試驗及真實的例子。我們會談論一些正在研究的東西。給你偷看一點我們的編輯記事簿。另因只有十三分鐘，我將會說得很快。因此請盡量跟上，好嗎？ 首先，我們在尋找甚麼呢？艷綠色都市。在已開發世界中我們所擁有最重要的槓桿以改善我們對地球造成的影響，就是改變我們在城市中的生活方式。我們已經是一個城市地球，在已開發世界尤是真確。住在已開發世界城市中的人多是富庶而消耗大量物品。如果我們能夠改變這個動力，首先，創造人口密度更高更適合居住的城市...以温哥華為例，如果你從未到過那裏，你應該去看看。它是一個優秀的城市。他們在推廣人口密度，新的人口密度，比地球上所有人做的更好。他們正設法呼籲北美洲人不再駕駛車輛。這是一件相當重要的大事。因此你有人口密度，亦有增長管理。其他屬於自然的就讓他自然。 這是在波特蘭。那是一個實際發展。那塊土地會永久留為牧地。他們把城市以一線圍繞。自然、城市。 甚麼都不變。當你那樣做之後，你可以開始做各樣投資。你可以開始發展，如．．．輸送人的運輸系統，有效率及舒適。你甚至可以開始修建已興建的事物。這是倫敦貝丁頓零耗能開發生態社區，是世界上最綠的建築之一。是個美妙的地方。我們現在有能力興建自行發電的建築，循環利用大部份的水。他們比一般建築物更舒適，使用全自然光，而長時間計算花費較少。綠色屋頂。 威廉．麥唐納昨晚已經說了，因此我不會在這說太多。 一旦人互相在近距離居住，其中一件可做的事就是　﹣隨著資訊科技發展　﹣你可以開始發展聰明的地方。你可以開始了解事物在哪裏。當你知道事物在哪裏，便更容易分享它們。當你分享它們後，就會減少用量。一個了不起的例子是車輛分享俱樂部。它現正開始在美國受歡迎。在許多歐洲國家已經存在。是個很好的例子。如果你一星期只開一天車，你真的需要擁有一台車子嗎？ 資訊科技可讓我們做的另一件事是藉由了解及監測我們實際的用量，去找出如何使用較少物料的方法。當我們用的能源越多，這電線會變得更亮。我覺得這是一個很棒的概念。雖然我認為它可以反過來當你不用它時，它可更光亮。但或許有另一個更簡易的方法。我們可以把物件重新標示。照明燈的開關一邊寫著「山洪暴發」，另一邊寫著「關閉」。我們亦可以變更如何造物。這是一座擬生物形態的大廈。它從生物的形態得到啟發而造成。許多這類建築都是難以置信地美麗，同時亦屬非常高效能。這是一個模仿生物的例子，亦是一些我們開始多留意的範疇。在這個例子中，這個貝殼設計用以造出一個新款排氣扇，它有更高的效能。現有很多類似的東西出現，真正是相當卓越。如果你喜歡這類事物，我鼓勵你們多到 Worldchanging 瀏覽。我們會報導越來越多這類事物。這也是一個近代生物設計實際上利用越來越多生物本身或生命的過程於我們的工業上。如這個例子，是一種可產生氫氣的海藻。所以我們有一個有潛力的模式，我們正在尋找的一個新浮現的模式可用於我們居住的城市，而把這些城市變成艷綠色都市。 但不幸地，地球上大多數的人都不居住在我們居住的城市。他們住在發展中國家湧現的大城市。有一個我經常喜歡使用的統計數字，就是我們每四天便增加一個西雅圖市。每四天這地球便有一個西雅圖般大小的城市。約兩個月前我發表了一個演講。有一位曾與聯合國工作的男士前來找我緊張地跟我說：「聽著，你弄錯了，全是錯了。應該是每七天才對。」那我們每七天增加一個西雅圖般大小的城市，而大部份都像這樣而非像你和我居住的城市。大部份那些城市都在迅速增長。他們沒有基礎設施。他們有大量人民在貧窮中掙扎，並且有大量人民在想辦法如何可以用新的方法做事。 我們需要些甚麼才能把發展中國家的大城市變成艷綠色大都市呢？我們需要的第一東西就是我們需要躍進。這是我們到處搜尋的其中一件現象。躍進背後的概念是如果你是一個人，或一個國家，因你沒有所需的工具和技術而處於停滯不前的情況，你沒理由投資上一代的科技，對嗎？幾乎普遍地說，你最好還是尋找一些低成本或適合當地採用的新科技。一個可見之處在於我們都熟悉的行動電話。所有發展中世界，人們都直接使用行動電話，跳過有線網絡的階段。如果在許多發展中世界城市有有線網絡的話，它們通常是常當機的低劣系統，並且非常昂貴。所以我頗喜歡這張圖片。我特別喜歡背景中的象頭神，拿著手機談話。所以行動電話滲入社會的情況日增。我們這個星期裏聽過不少，因此我在這裏不說太多，除了要說行動電話表現的現象，也出現在任何科技。 第二件事是合作工具，無論是合作系统本身或是促進合作的知識產權系統。當你有自主權去讓人們自由地合作和創新，你便會得到不同的解決方案。而沒有資本的人可用一個不同途徑得到那些解決方案。是不是？我們有開源軟件，我們有創用 CC 和其他 Copyleft 解決方案。而那些事情便引導出這樣的東西。這是聖保羅的 Telecentro這是一個很出眾的計劃，利用免費和開源軟件，把便宜機器嵌在一起，還有基本上一些被棄置的大廈，而造成了一連串社區中心讓人們到來使用高速網絡和免費學習編寫電腦程式技能。現在在聖保羅每年約有廿五萬人使用這設施。而這廿五萬人正是聖保羅中一些最窮困的人。我特別喜歡這背景的Linux小企鵝。 那亦引發了另一件事，就是南部的文化爆破。其中一樣 Worldchanging 最有興趣的事就是南方如何重新自我界定，用越來越與眾不同的方法重新自我分類。所以寶萊塢並不只是對荷里活(好萊塢)回應。巴西音樂市場並非對主要唱片製作商的回應。他們是在創作。新的事物在發生，有著相互作用。你會得到令人驚訝的收獲。不知道有多少人曾看過電影「無主之城」？如果你沒有看過，它是一部很好的電影。它正是以藝術性和間接手法談論這些問題。 另有其他根本的例子討論使用文化工具的能力正漸漸擴散，這些人才剛被烏干達網路行動圖書館的人造訪並正於空中揚著他們的第一本書。在我來看這是一幅很棒的相片。另外，人們亦有能力為自己的政治及自治組織起來，用從來都未曾試過的方式。正如我們昨晚聽到的，正如這星期聽到的，都是對劃出新解決方案的能力有絕對和基本的重要性。我們有需要塑造新的政治現實。 我個人認為我們需要塑造新的政治現實，不單在印度、阿富汗、肯亞、巴基斯坦等地，但在這裏也有需要。另一個世界是有可能的。像是一個反全球化運動的大座右銘。我們常作調整。我們談及另一個世界不單是有可能，其實它已在此。這不單是我們要想像一個不同或隱約的可能性出現，而是我們需要為那個可能性開始作點行動。我們要開始像巴西總統魯拉般做點事。有多少人在今天之前認識魯拉？好，我可以告訴你，比一般的羣眾都好。魯拉　﹣他有很多問題，很多矛盾。但他正在做的是推出一個意念 ﹣如何參與國際關係完全由一個標準南北對話的平衡轉移至一個新的全球性合作模式。我會建議你密切注意他。 另一個同類的第二超級大國事件例子是我們所謂嚴肅扮演的新興遊戲。我們都對這作很多研究。這個已傳遍各地。這來自「更強大的力量」。它是一張小截圖。「更強大的力量」是一個電子遊戲。當你玩的時候，它會教你如何作出非暴力造反和政權變動。這是另一個遊戲。由「糧食力量」節錄出來。這個遊戲教導小朋友如何運作一個難民營。特別在發展中世界，這一切交互作用大大提升了人們對民主的興趣及熱誠。我們有那麼少發展中世界的消息以致我們忘記事實上有數百萬人正為要把事情改變得更公正、自由、更民主、少腐敗而在掙扎。你知道嗎，那些故事我們還沒有聽得足夠，但這些事情到處皆是。而這些工具就是令事情可以發生的一部份。 當你把這一切加起來，當你加上躍進和新的工具，第二超級大國等等之東西，你會得到甚麼？很快地，你會為發展中世界得到艷綠色未來。如綠色能源傳遍全球。你會得到如在印度海得拉巴的一座建築物。它是世界上最環保的建築物。你會得到最基層的解決方案，為一些沒有資金和只有有限度接觸的人都可行的方法。你會有赤腳太陽能工程師拿著太陽能板到遙遠的山區。你可得到遙遠的醫療支援。這是一些印度護士在學習使用PDA到數據庫拿取一些在家中無法遠距取得的資料。為發展中世界你會得到新的工具。這些發光二極體照明燈可幫助大約一億人。為那些日落後便完全漆黑的人們增添運作的新方法。這些雪櫃不需要電源。他們都是壺中壺的設計。 你又會得到飲水的解決方案。水是最要緊的問題之一。這是一個極便宜收成雨水的設計，而發展中世界的人民都可以取得。這是一個用陽光蒸餾水的設計。如過你住在一個森林似的潮濕地區，這捉霧器可以由空氣中蒸餾清潔和可飲用的水。這是一個運輸水的方法。我很愛這個。運水是一件很困難的事。有人就發明了一個意念把它在地上滾動。看，這是一個很棒的設計。生命吸管 ﹣是一個很了不起的發明。基本上你可以透過這吸管抽入任何水，當水到你的唇邊的時候便是可以飲用。所以，在污染水道附近的居民便可以用這。這是我最喜愛的 Worldchanging 東西之一。由一間公司 Roundabout 發明的旋轉木馬。當小朋友在玩耍的時候,它會泵水。真的。給它一個鼓掌。它是一個好主意。同樣的事情可以發生在身處於絕對危機的人。 由於氣候轉變及政治不穩定，我們預算難民數字會於2020年上升二億人。我們怎樣可以幫助這些人呢？現在有多款驚人的新人道主義設計正在地球不同地方聯手研發中。有些設計包括行動模式，例如在難民營中使用新的村落指示模式，對於那流離失所的是新的模式。同時我們亦有新的工具。這是我其中一個無論到那裏都是絕對至愛的。有人知道這是甚麼嗎？ 觀眾：他能探測地雷。 無錯，這是一種探測地雷的花。如果你住在那些佈以約千萬計地點不詳的地雷的地方，你可以在野外撒下種子。當他們長大時，他們會在地雷附近生長。這些植物的根會探測到地雷的化學物。當花變成紅色你便不要走到那裏。是的，種子會拯救你的生命。 （掌聲） 我也喜愛這個方法的原因是這個例子　﹣我們用作改變世界的工具　﹣他們自身應該是美麗的。單單生存是不足夠。我們必須要把有的變得更好。而我相信我們會做到。以赫伯特．喬治．威爾斯不朽之詞作為結尾，我認為更好的正在途中。我認為：「所有的過去其實是開始的起點。所有人類思想做到的其實是喚醒前的夢想。」我希望最後那會變成真實。所有在座的人都給予了我前所未有的信心。 多謝各位。 （掌聲）
