Talk	en	zh-tw
alexis_ohanian_how_to_make_a_splash_in_social_media	"There are a lot of web 2.0 consultants who make a lot of money. In fact, they make their living on this stuff. I'm going to try to save you all the time and money and go through it in the next three minutes, so bear with me. Started a website in 2005 with a few friends, called Reddit.com. It's what you'd call a social news website; basically, the democratic front page of the best stuff on the web. You find some interesting content — say, a TED Talk — submit it to Reddit, and a community of your peers votes up if they like it, down if they don't. That creates the front page. It's always rising, falling; a half million people visit every day. But this isn't about Reddit. It's about discovering new things that pop up on the web. In the last four years, we've seen all kinds of memes, all kinds of trends get born right on our front page. This isn't about Reddit itself, it's actually about humpback whales. Well, technically, it's about Greenpeace, an environmental organization that wanted to stop the Japanese government's whaling campaign. The whales were getting killed; they wanted to put an end to it. One of the ways they wanted to do it was to put a tracking chip inside one of the whales. But to personify the movement, they wanted to name it. So in true web fashion, they put together a poll, where they had a bunch of very erudite, very thoughtful, cultured names. I believe this is the Farsi word for ""immortal."" I think this means ""divine power of the ocean"" in a Polynesian language. And then there was this: ""Mister Splashy Pants."" (Laughter) And this was a special name. Mister Pants, or ""Splashy"" to his friends, was very popular on the Internet. In fact, someone on Reddit thought, ""What a great thing, we should all vote this up."" And Redditors responded and all agreed. So the voting started. We got behind it ourselves; we changed our logo for the day, from the alien to Splashy, to help the cause. And it wasn't long before other sites like Fark and Boing Boing and the rest of the Internet started saying, ""We love Splashy Pants!"" So it went from about five percent, which was when this meme started, to 70 percent at the end of voting. Pretty impressive, right? We won! Mister Splashy Pants was chosen. Just kidding — Greenpeace actually wasn't that crazy about it, because they wanted one of the more thoughtful names to win. They said, ""No, just kidding. We'll give it another week of voting."" Well, that got us a little angry, so we changed it to Fightin' Splashy. (Laughter) And the Reddit community — really, the rest of the Internet, really got behind this. Facebook groups were created. Facebook applications were created. The idea was, ""Vote your conscience, vote for Mister Splashy Pants."" People were putting up signs in the real world about this whale. (Laughter) This was the final vote: 78 percent of the votes. To give you an idea of the landslide, the next highest name pulled in three. There was a clear lesson: the Internet loves Mister Splashy Pants. Which is obvious. It's a great name. Everyone wants to hear their news anchor say, ""Mister Splashy Pants."" (Laughter) I think that's what helped drive this. What was cool were the repercussions. Greenpeace created an entire marketing campaign around it — Mister Splashy Pants shirts and pins, an e-card so you could send your friend a dancing Splashy. But even more important was that they accomplished their mission. The Japanese government called off their whaling expedition. Mission accomplished: Greenpeace was thrilled, the whales were happy — that's a quote. (Laughter) And actually, Redditors in the Internet community were happy to participate, but they weren't whale lovers. A few, certainly, but we're talking about a lot of people, really interested and caught up in this meme. Greenpeace came back to the site and thanked Reddit for its participation. But this wasn't really altruism; just interest in doing something cool. This is how the Internet works. This is that great big secret. The Internet provides a level playing field. Your link is as good as your link, which is as good as my link. With a browser, anyone can get to any website no matter your budget. That is, as long as you can keep net neutrality in place. Another important thing is it costs nothing to get content online. There are so many publishing tools available, it only takes a few minutes to produce something. and the cost of iteration is so cheap, you might as well. If you do, be genuine. Be honest, up-front. One of the great lessons Greenpeace learned is that it's OK to lose control, OK to take yourself a little less seriously, given that, even though it's a very serious cause, you could ultimately achieve your goal. That's the final message I want to share: you can do well online. But no longer is the message coming from just the top down. If you want to succeed you've got to be OK to lose control. Thank you. (Applause)"	現在有很多web 2.0專家都發大財其實他們是靠這些東西糊口我就嘗試為你省錢省時間只要短短三分鐘，請耐心一看我跟幾位朋友在2005年成立一個網站名字叫Reddit.com你亦可稱它為一個社交消息網站 基本上這個自訂的首頁是網上的大熱門。當你找到有趣的東西例如TEDTalk之類在Reddit登上，你社區內的朋友如果喜歡就會投票，或者投不喜歡票首頁就這樣形成，而且總是在升升跌跌，不停在變每日有大概50萬人瀏覽，但主角不是Reddit而是在探索網上新鮮的事物因為在過去四年我們看過無數的信息所有的潮流都在我們的首頁開始 但這方面的主角亦不只是Reddit而是駝背鯨好吧，其實主角是綠色和平這個環保組織想阻止日本政府捕鯨這些駝背鯨被殺他們想制止，而其中一個方法是在這些駝背鯨裡放入追蹤晶片但為了開宗明義，他們想要一個名字 於是他們應網絡潮流，舉辦了一個投票提出了多個很具學術和深義味道的名字我記得有個波斯詞語的意思是「永生不朽」我想這是玻里尼西亞語意思是「海洋的神聖力量」而有一個就是：泥濘褲子先生（笑聲） 就是這個，這個特別的名字。「褲子先生」，或「泥濘」，對於他的朋友來說在網上非常流行有些人在Reddit說：「喔，這個很好，我們應該投這個一票。」之後當然，很多Reddit人表示同意就這樣，投票開始，我們其實都看穿了投票結果那天我們改了標誌，將外星人改為駝背鯨，好壯一壯聲勢不久之前其他網站，例如Fark、Boing Boing之類以及整個網路都開始說「沒錯﹗我們都很愛泥濘褲子。」 就這樣，自這個熱話開始時的百分之五增加至投票結束時的百分之七十很意外吧。我們贏了﹗泥濘褲子先生當選。說笑而已，好了言歸正傳。綠色和平並不這樣喜歡因為他們希望一個意義重大的名字當選所以他們說：「不行，說笑而已。我們會再投票多一星期。」 這真的惹惱了我們所以我們改為「為泥濘抗爭」（笑聲）而Reddit的社區，真的，以至整個網路都看穿了有人開了Facebook群組、Facebook程式大家的意識是：「為良心投票」，投票給泥濘褲子先生現實世界中有很多人舉起橫額（笑聲）——為的就是這條鯨魚這次是最後一次投票。數算了之後...百分之七十八的選票，你可以試比較，第二名只佔三。看到了嗎？ 結果很明顯：網上人人都喜歡泥濘褲子先生很明顯，這是一個很不錯的名字人人都想聽到新聞主說：「泥濘褲子先生」（笑聲）我覺得這個名字的宣傳效果很好最了不起的是，之後綠色和平的反應是以這個名字設計了一系列宣傳他們賣泥濘褲子先生的恤衫和徽章他們甚至創作了電子卡，人人可將跳舞的泥濘送給朋友但最重要的是，他們其實已經完成任務。日本政府取消捕鯨。任務完成綠色和平很興奮，鯨魚很開心，大團圓結局（笑聲） 其實Reddit人在網上的社區很樂意參與，但他們並不是熱愛鯨魚當中少數人，但當中有很多人他們只是對這個好名有興趣而後來有綠色和平的人來到網站多謝Reddit的參與但我們並不是大無畏，只是有興趣做些好玩的事 網路就是這樣了這是一個大祕密，網路就是這樣你的連結跟他的連結一樣也跟我的連結一樣。只要我們有瀏覽器不論有多少預算，個個網站都全面開放那即是說，你只要保持網絡的中肯性 另一樣最重要的是，在網上發表東西是分毫不收的網上有很多不錯的媒體工具只需要幾分鐘就可製成東西複製的成本很低，低得付了也沒所謂 如果你想做，就認真做。要誠懇。要放膽。而綠色和平學會的重要一課是失控是沒有問題的對自己不太認真是可以的因為雖然目標是很嚴肅的問題你最終都會達成目標的而我想跟你們分享的最後一個訊息是——你可在網上幹一番大事訊息不再是由上至下的發送的如果想成功，你要準備失控多謝。（掌聲）
