Talk	en	zh-tw
alexander_betts_our_refugee_system_is_failing_here_s_how_we_can_fix_it	There are times when I feel really quite ashamed to be a European. In the last year, more than a million people arrived in Europe in need of our help, and our response, frankly, has been pathetic. There are just so many contradictions. We mourn the tragic death of two-year-old Alan Kurdi, and yet, since then, more than 200 children have subsequently drowned in the Mediterranean. We have international treaties that recognize that refugees are a shared responsibility, and yet we accept that tiny Lebanon hosts more Syrians than the whole of Europe combined. We lament the existence of human smugglers, and yet we make that the only viable route to seek asylum in Europe. We have labor shortages, and yet we exclude people who fit our economic and demographic needs from coming to Europe. We proclaim our liberal values in opposition to fundamentalist Islam, and yet — we have repressive policies that detain child asylum seekers, that separate children from their families, and that seize property from refugees. What are we doing? How has the situation come to this, that we've adopted such an inhumane response to a humanitarian crisis? I don't believe it's because people don't care, or at least I don't want to believe it's because people don't care. I believe it's because our politicians lack a vision, a vision for how to adapt an international refugee system created over 50 years ago for a changing and globalized world. And so what I want to do is take a step back and ask two really fundamental questions, the two questions we all need to ask. First, why is the current system not working? And second, what can we do to fix it? So the modern refugee regime was created in the aftermath of the Second World War by these guys. Its basic aim is to ensure that when a state fails, or worse, turns against its own people, people have somewhere to go, to live in safety and dignity until they can go home. It was created precisely for situations like the situation we see in Syria today. Through an international convention signed by 147 governments, the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees, and an international organization, UNHCR, states committed to reciprocally admit people onto their territory who flee conflict and persecution. But today, that system is failing. In theory, refugees have a right to seek asylum. In practice, our immigration policies block the path to safety. In theory, refugees have a right to a pathway to integration, or return to the country they've come from. But in practice, they get stuck in almost indefinite limbo. In theory, refugees are a shared global responsibility. In practice, geography means that countries proximate the conflict take the overwhelming majority of the world's refugees. The system isn't broken because the rules are wrong. It's that we're not applying them adequately to a changing world, and that's what we need to reconsider. So I want to explain to you a little bit about how the current system works. How does the refugee regime actually work? But not from a top-down institutional perspective, rather from the perspective of a refugee. So imagine a Syrian woman. Let's call her Amira. And Amira to me represents many of the people I've met in the region. Amira, like around 25 percent of the world's refugees, is a woman with children, and she can't go home because she comes from this city that you see before you, Homs, a once beautiful and historic city now under rubble. And so Amira can't go back there. But Amira also has no hope of resettlement to a third country, because that's a lottery ticket only available to less than one percent of the world's refugees. So Amira and her family face an almost impossible choice. They have three basic options. The first option is that Amira can take her family to a camp. In the camp, she might get assistance, but there are very few prospects for Amira and her family. Camps are in bleak, arid locations, often in the desert. In the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan, you can hear the shells across the border in Syria at nighttime. There's restricted economic activity. Education is often of poor quality. And around the world, some 80 percent of refugees who are in camps have to stay for at least five years. It's a miserable existence, and that's probably why, in reality, only nine percent of Syrians choose that option. Alternatively, Amira can head to an urban area in a neighboring country, like Amman or Beirut. That's an option that about 75 percent of Syrian refugees have taken. But there, there's great difficulty as well. Refugees in such urban areas don't usually have the right to work. They don't usually get significant access to assistance. And so when Amira and her family have used up their basic savings, they're left with very little and likely to face urban destitution. So there's a third alternative, and it's one that increasing numbers of Syrians are taking. Amira can seek some hope for her family by risking their lives on a dangerous and perilous journey to another country, and it's that which we're seeing in Europe today. Around the world, we present refugees with an almost impossible choice between three options: encampment, urban destitution and dangerous journeys. For refugees, that choice is the global refugee regime today. But I think it's a false choice. I think we can reconsider that choice. The reason why we limit those options is because we think that those are the only options that are available to refugees, and they're not. Politicians frame the issue as a zero-sum issue, that if we benefit refugees, we're imposing costs on citizens. We tend to have a collective assumption that refugees are an inevitable cost or burden to society. But they don't have to. They can contribute. So what I want to argue is there are ways in which we can expand that choice set and still benefit everyone else: the host states and communities, our societies and refugees themselves. And I want to suggest four ways we can transform the paradigm of how we think about refugees. All four ways have one thing in common: they're all ways in which we take the opportunities of globalization, mobility and markets, and update the way we think about the refugee issue. The first one I want to think about is the idea of enabling environments, and it starts from a very basic recognition that refugees are human beings like everyone else, but they're just in extraordinary circumstances. Together with my colleagues in Oxford, we've embarked on a research project in Uganda looking at the economic lives of refugees. We chose Uganda not because it's representative of all host countries. It's not. It's exceptional. Unlike most host countries around the world, what Uganda has done is give refugees economic opportunity. It gives them the right to work. It gives them freedom of movement. And the results of that are extraordinary both for refugees and the host community. In the capital city, Kampala, we found that 21 percent of refugees own a business that employs other people, and 40 percent of those employees are nationals of the host country. In other words, refugees are making jobs for citizens of the host country. Even in the camps, we found extraordinary examples of vibrant, flourishing and entrepreneurial businesses. For example, in a settlement called Nakivale, we found examples of Congolese refugees running digital music exchange businesses. We found a Rwandan who runs a business that's available to allow the youth to play computer games on recycled games consoles and recycled televisions. Against the odds of extreme constraint, refugees are innovating, and the gentleman you see before you is a Congolese guy called Demou-Kay. Demou-Kay arrived in the settlement with very little, but he wanted to be a filmmaker. So with friends and colleagues, he started a community radio station, he rented a video camera, and he's now making films. He made two documentary films with and for our team, and he's making a successful business out of very little. It's those kinds of examples that should guide our response to refugees. Rather than seeing refugees as inevitably dependent upon humanitarian assistance, we need to provide them with opportunities for human flourishing. Yes, clothes, blankets, shelter, food are all important in the emergency phase, but we need to also look beyond that. We need to provide opportunities to connectivity, electricity, education, the right to work, access to capital and banking. All the ways in which we take for granted that we are plugged in to the global economy can and should apply to refugees. The second idea I want to discuss is economic zones. Unfortunately, not every host country in the world takes the approach Uganda has taken. Most host countries don't open up their economies to refugees in the same way. But there are still pragmatic alternative options that we can use. Last April, I traveled to Jordan with my colleague, the development economist Paul Collier, and we brainstormed an idea while we were there with the international community and the government, an idea to bring jobs to Syrians while supporting Jordan's national development strategy. The idea is for an economic zone, one in which we could potentially integrate the employment of refugees alongside the employment of Jordanian host nationals. And just 15 minutes away from the Zaatari refugee camp, home to 83,000 refugees, is an existing economic zone called the King Hussein Bin Talal Development Area. The government has spent over a hundred million dollars connecting it to the electricity grid, connecting it to the road network, but it lacked two things: access to labor and inward investment. So what if refugees were able to work there rather than being stuck in camps, able to support their families and develop skills through vocational training before they go back to Syria? We recognized that that could benefit Jordan, whose development strategy requires it to make the leap as a middle income country to manufacturing. It could benefit refugees, but it could also contribute to the postconflict reconstruction of Syria by recognizing that we need to incubate refugees as the best source of eventually rebuilding Syria. We published the idea in the journal Foreign Affairs. King Abdullah has picked up on the idea. It was announced at the London Syria Conference two weeks ago, and a pilot will begin in the summer. (Applause) The third idea that I want to put to you is preference matching between states and refugees to lead to the kinds of happy outcomes you see here in the selfie featuring Angela Merkel and a Syrian refugee. What we rarely do is ask refugees what they want, where they want to go, but I'd argue we can do that and still make everyone better off. The economist Alvin Roth has developed the idea of matching markets, ways in which the preference ranking of the parties shapes an eventual match. My colleagues Will Jones and Alex Teytelboym have explored ways in which that idea could be applied to refugees, to ask refugees to rank their preferred destinations, but also allow states to rank the types of refugees they want on skills criteria or language criteria and allow those to match. Now, of course you'd need to build in quotas on things like diversity and vulnerability, but it's a way of increasing the possibilities of matching. The matching idea has been successfully used to match, for instance, students with university places, to match kidney donors with patients, and it underlies the kind of algorithms that exist on dating websites. So why not apply that to give refugees greater choice? It could also be used at the national level, where one of the great challenges we face is to persuade local communities to accept refugees. And at the moment, in my country, for instance, we often send engineers to rural areas and farmers to the cities, which makes no sense at all. So matching markets offer a potential way to bring those preferences together and listen to the needs and demands of the populations that host and the refugees themselves. The fourth idea I want to put to you is of humanitarian visas. Much of the tragedy and chaos we've seen in Europe was entirely avoidable. It stems from a fundamental contradiction in Europe's asylum policy, which is the following: that in order to seek asylum in Europe, you have to arrive spontaneously by embarking on those dangerous journeys that I described. But why should those journeys be necessary in an era of the budget airline and modern consular capabilities? They're completely unnecessary journeys, and last year, they led to the deaths of over 3,000 people on Europe's borders and within European territory. If refugees were simply allowed to travel directly and seek asylum in Europe, we would avoid that, and there's a way of doing that through something called a humanitarian visa, that allows people to collect a visa at an embassy or a consulate in a neighboring country and then simply pay their own way through a ferry or a flight to Europe. It costs around a thousand euros to take a smuggler from Turkey to the Greek islands. It costs 200 euros to take a budget airline from Bodrum to Frankfurt. If we allowed refugees to do that, it would have major advantages. It would save lives, it would undercut the entire market for smugglers, and it would remove the chaos we see from Europe's front line in areas like the Greek islands. It's politics that prevents us doing that rather than a rational solution. And this is an idea that has been applied. Brazil has adopted a pioneering approach where over 2,000 Syrians have been able to get humanitarian visas, enter Brazil, and claim refugee status on arrival in Brazil. And in that scheme, every Syrian who has gone through it has received refugee status and been recognized as a genuine refugee. There is a historical precedent for it as well. Between 1922 and 1942, these Nansen passports were used as travel documents to allow 450,000 Assyrians, Turks and Chechens to travel across Europe and claim refugee status elsewhere in Europe. And the Nansen International Refugee Office received the Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of this being a viable strategy. So all four of these ideas that I've presented you are ways in which we can expand Amira's choice set. They're ways in which we can have greater choice for refugees beyond those basic, impossible three options I explained to you and still leave others better off. In conclusion, we really need a new vision, a vision that enlarges the choices of refugees but recognizes that they don't have to be a burden. There's nothing inevitable about refugees being a cost. Yes, they are a humanitarian responsibility, but they're human beings with skills, talents, aspirations, with the ability to make contributions — if we let them. In the new world, migration is not going to go away. What we've seen in Europe will be with us for many years. People will continue to travel, they'll continue to be displaced, and we need to find rational, realistic ways of managing this — not based on the old logics of humanitarian assistance, not based on logics of charity, but building on the opportunities offered by globalization, markets and mobility. I'd urge you all to wake up and urge our politicians to wake up to this challenge. Thank you very much. (Applause)	有時候我真的覺得很丟臉因爲我是歐洲人。光是去年，就有超過一百萬人來歐洲尋求幫助而歐洲的反應，坦白說，很可悲。 過程中實在充斥著許多矛盾。在我們哀悼慘死的兩歲幼兒艾蘭·庫迪之後，從那時起，卻又有超過兩百名兒童溺斃於地中海。雖然國際公約認定難民收容應由各國共同分擔，但我們收容的黎巴嫩難民很少所收容的敘利亞難民卻超過全歐洲的人口。我們悲嘆人口偷渡的存在，卻又使偷渡成為難民唯一去歐洲尋求幫助的可行途徑。我們的勞工短缺，然而我們卻將符合歐洲經濟及人口結構需求的人排拒於歐洲之外。我們宣稱我們對自由的價值觀與伊斯蘭基本教義派對立，然而，我們用高壓政策來拘留尋求庇護的兒童，拆散兒童跟他們的家人，並且掠奪難民的財物， 我們到底在做什麼？怎麼會讓情況演變成這樣，我們竟然用如此不人道的方式來處理人道主義危機 我不相信原因是因為人們不在乎，至少我不願意相信這個理由。我認為是因為政客缺乏一種遠見，一種遠見來改寫50多年前建立的國際難民系統因應世界的瞬息萬變和全球化趨勢所以我想做的是退一步然後問兩個真的很基本的問題，兩個我們都需要問的問題。第一，為什麼目前的系統不能用？第二，怎麼修復它？ 現今的難民保護制度是被這些人創立於二戰的戰後時期。它的基本目的在於確保當一個國家失敗，或者更糟，逼迫自國人民時，人民有地方可以去投奔，在可重返祖國之前能夠安全且有尊嚴的活著。這個系統所針對的情況，正如我們今日所看到的敘利亞現況。通過一個由147個政府所簽署的國際公約，1951年《難民地位公約》，和一個國際組織，聯合國難民署，所約定，簽署國相互允許人們進入他們的領土範圍來逃離紛爭以及迫害。 然而今天，這個系統卻在崩解中。理論上，難民具有尋求庇護的權利。現實中，我們的移民政策堵住了通往安全的道路。理論上，難民有權利透過途徑居留在庇護國，或返回他們自己的國家。但是在現實中，他們卻陷入了幾乎無止境的混沌狀態中。理論上，難民是全球各國共同承擔的責任。在現實中，地理位置鄰近紛爭的那些國家收容了全球絕大多數的難民。難民系統行不通不是因為系統的規定是錯的。而是因為我們沒有合適地應用這些規定到瞬息萬變的世界，而這就是我們需要進行反思的。 所以我想跟你們解釋一下目前的系統是如何運作的。難民保護制度到底是怎麼運作的呢？但是不從一個從上往下的機構角度，而是從一個難民的角度來看。所以試想一個敘利亞女人。讓我們稱她為阿米拉。而阿米拉對我來說代表了許多我在該地區遇到的人。阿米拉，如同世界上大約百分之二十五的難民，是一名有孩子的婦女，而她不能回家因為她來自這個城市你眼前所看到的城市，霍姆斯，一個曾經美麗以及歷史悠久的城市如今卻形同廢墟。所以阿米拉不能夠回去那裡。但是阿米拉也沒有再安置到第三國的希望，因為那是一張彩票全世界僅有少於百分之一的難民可獲得。 所以阿米拉和她的家人面對著一個幾乎沒有可能的選擇。他們有三個基本的選項：第一個選項是阿米拉可以帶著她的家人到難民營。在難民營中，她可能得到幫助，但是那裡對於阿米拉和她的家庭來說幾乎沒有前途可言。難民營位於荒涼和乾旱的地方，通常是在沙漠。在約旦的扎塔利難民營，在夜間，你可以聽到穿越敘利亞邊境的砲彈聲。那裡有受到限制的經濟活動。教育品質通常很差。而且在全世界，大約百分之八十處於難民營中的難民需要待在那裡至少五年。那是一種悲慘的生活，而那大概就是為什麼，在現實中，僅有百分之九的敘利亞人民選擇如此。 或者，阿米拉可以前往一個城市地區一個鄰近國家的城市，例如安曼或者貝魯特。那是大概百分之七十五敘利亞難民的抉擇。但是在那裡，在那裡也有極大的困難。在這些城市地區的難民通常沒有工作的權利。他們通常沒有太多途徑可以得到幫助。因此當阿米拉和她的家人花光了他們的積蓄時，他們所剩無幾並有可能面臨都市貧困。 所以他們還有第三個選項，而這正是越來越多敘利亞人民的選擇。阿米拉可以給她的家人帶來希望，通過冒著生命危險走上一段險象環生的旅程前往另外一個國家，這就是我們如今在歐洲所看到的。 在世界各地，我們給難民幾乎都沒有辦法選擇的選項在三個選項中：難民營、都市貧困、和危險旅程中進行選擇。對難民來說，那選擇代表著當今全球難民保護制度。但是我認為它是一個錯誤的選擇。我認為我們應該對這個選擇進行反思。我們之所以限制選項數量是因為我們認為只有那些是難民可以獲得的選項，然而並不是的。政客們把這個問題設計成一個零和的問題，如果讓難民得到好處，我們就會把成本強加於公民身上。我們傾向集體假設認為難民對社會會造成不可避免的損失或負擔。但是他們不一定如此。他們可以作出貢獻。 所以我想要提出的是我們仍有許多方式可以去擴增那些選項組合同時讓每個人都得到好處：難民收容國和社會群體，我們的社會和難民都得到好處。而我想要提出四種方式能夠讓我們改變我們對難民問題的思考模式。這四種方式都有一個共同點：都是透過把握全球化，流動性和市場的機會，更新我們對難民問題的想法。 第一個我想要思考的是有利環境這個概念，它始於一個很基本的認知那就是難民和每個人一樣都是人類，只是他們處於很特別的境況中。和我在牛津大學的同事們一起，我們著手了一個在烏干達的研究項目這個項目著眼於難民的經濟生活。我們選擇烏干達並不是因為它代表了所有的難民收容國。它並沒有。它是例外的。跟世界上大多數的難民收容國不一樣，烏干達所做的是給予難民經濟上的機會。它給予他們工作的權利。它給予他們活動的自由。而由此產生的結果是非同尋常的，對於難民和難民收容國的社會他們雙方來說都是。在首都，坎帕拉，我們發現有百分之二十一的難民們擁有自己的生意並雇用其他人，而百分之四十的員工是難民收容國的國民。換句話說，難民在創造工作機會給難民收容國的公民。更甚至在難民營中，我們也發現了不尋常的例子那裡有著充滿活力、蓬勃發展的自創生意。 例如，在一個叫納吉瓦萊的安置所，我們找到一些剛果難民的例子他們經營數字音樂交換的生意。我們發現了一位盧旺達人經營一種生意可以讓年輕人玩電子遊戲通過回收利用的遊戲機和電視機。跟極端限制相反，難民們在進行創新，還有你們眼前所看到的這位先生是一位叫Demou-Kay的剛果人。Demou-Kay來到安置所的時候幾乎什麼都沒有，但是他想成為一名電影製作人。所以他和朋友同事們一起，開辦了一個社區無線電台，他租了一臺攝影機，然後現在在拍電影。他拍攝了兩部紀錄片和我們組一起拍，並且是為了我們組而拍攝的，他正在創造一個成功的生意，在幾乎一無所有的情況下。就是這些例子應該被用來引導我們對難民問題所作出的反應。與其視難民為不可避免地依賴著人道援助的人，我們需要提供他們讓人類得以繁榮的機會。 是的，衣服、毛毯、避難所、食物這些在緊急階段都是重要的，但是我們也需要看得更遠一些。我們需要提供機會讓他們可以與外界連結、供電、提供教育、工作權利，資金和銀行業務的使用權。我們理所當然地用來緊跟全球經濟步伐的所有方式能夠也應該適用於難民。 第二個我想要討論的概念是經濟區域。不幸的是，並不是每個世界上的難民收容國採用烏干達所採用的方法。大部分的難民收容國沒有像烏干達那樣向難民們開放它們的經濟。但是我們還是有其它實用的選項可以使用。 去年四月，我和我的同事，發展經濟學家保羅·科利爾到約旦旅行，當我們在那裡時，我們想出了一個主意和國際社會還有當地政府在一起，一個給敘利亞人民帶來工作並同時支持著約旦的國家發展策略的主意。這是一個關於經濟區域的主意，一個我們也許能夠把對難民的雇用和對約旦國民們的雇用綜合起來的主意。在距離扎塔利難民營僅有15分鐘距離的居住著83,000位難民的地方，是一個現存的經濟區域它叫本塔拉勒國王侯賽因開發區。政府已經花費了超過一億把它連接到電網和道路網，但它缺兩種東西：勞動力和內部投資。所以如果難民能夠在那裡工作而不是滯留在難民營中，能夠支撐他們的家庭還有通過職業培訓發展技能在他們回去敘利亞之前，這會怎麼樣呢？我們認識到這會使約旦受惠，因為它的發展策略要求它實現跳躍成為一個製造業的中等收入國家。這也會使難民受惠，但它也可以貢獻於衝突後的敘利亞的重建工作通過認識到我們需要把難民們逐步培養成最終重建敘利亞的最佳的來源。我們把這個主意發表在《外交事務》期刊。沙特國王阿卜杜拉已經注意到這個主意。在兩個星期前的倫敦敘利亞會議上他宣告將在今年夏天採取試行。 （鼓掌） 第三個我想要向你們提出的概念是國家和難民之間的偏好配對從而導致種種美好的結果就像你從這張自拍所看到的那樣特寫著德國總理安吉拉默克爾和一名敘利亞難民的（自拍）。我們很少做的是問問難民他們想要什麼，他們想去哪裏，但是我想證明我們可以做到如此並且同時讓每個人的生活都變得更好。經濟學家阿爾文· 羅斯已經提出了配對市場的這種想法，通過各方的喜愛順序形成一種最終的配對的方式。我的同事威爾·瓊斯和亞歷克斯·泰伊特爾卜彌格探索了很多能夠使這種想法應用到難民身上的方法，讓難民對他們偏好的目的地進行排序，並且也讓國家們對他們想要的難民種類進行排序根據技能或者語言標準然後允許它們進行配對。現在，當然你需要去設立限額對像多樣性和脆弱性，但它是提高配對可能性的一種方式。這種配對的概念已經被很好地用去配對，例如，學生和大學所在地去配對腎臟捐獻者和患者們，並且它還成為交往網站上一種運算法則的基礎。所以為什麼不把它應用去給予難民們更好的選擇呢？ 它還可以被用到國家層面，在其中一個我們所面臨的巨大的挑戰是去說服當地社區接受難民。而在目前，在我的國家，舉個例子，我們經常把工程師派往到農村地區和把農民派往城市，這麼做毫無意義。所以配對市場提供一種潛在的方法能夠把那些偏好者集合在一起並聽取難民收容國的全體人民的需求和要求還有難民他們自己的（需求和要求）。 第四個我想要告訴你們的概念是人道主義簽證。許多我們在歐洲所看到的悲劇和騷亂是完全可以避免的。它根源於一個歐洲庇護政策中的基本矛盾，就是以下的這個：為了在歐洲尋求庇護， 你需要踏上危險的旅途自行抵達歐洲，如我所描述的那樣。但是為什麼在這麼一個具有廉價航空和現代領事能力的時代這些旅程還有必要呢？它們完全是沒有必要的旅程，而且在去年，這些旅程導致了超過三千人的死亡在歐洲的邊境和在歐洲的領土範圍內。 如果當初難民能夠簡單地被允許直接地到歐洲旅行和尋求庇護，我們就會避免了它的發生，而且有一種方法可以做到如此通過人道主義簽證，它允許人們從大使館獲取一個簽證或者從一個鄰近國家的領事館然後簡單地支付他們通過渡船或者飛機去歐洲的旅程。從土耳其偷渡到到希臘群島，大約需要一千歐元，而搭乘一班廉價航空從博德魯姆到法蘭克福只需要兩百歐元。如果我們當初允許難民這麼做，它能帶來許多好處。它本可以拯救生命它本可以根除掉整個偷渡市場，並且它本來可以移除掉我們看到的歐洲前線的騷亂比如希臘群島那樣的地區。阻止我們這麼做的並不是理智的解決方法，而是政治。 這種概念已經被應用了。巴西已經採用了一個開創性的方法在那裡有超過兩千名敘利亞人民已經得到人道主義簽證，進入巴西，並在到達巴西的時候要求獲得難民身份。而在那個計劃中，每個已經經歷過它的敘利亞人民已經得到了難民身份並已經承認為一個真正的難民。 在歷史上也有這樣的先例。在1922年和1942年之間，南森護照被用作為旅行證件允許450,000亞述人，土耳其人和車臣人穿越歐洲並在歐洲任何地方要求獲得難民身份。而南森國際難民部門獲得了諾貝爾和平獎承認它為一項可行的策略。 所以我所向你們提出的這四個概念是我們可以用來擴展阿米拉的選項組合的方法。它們是我們可以給予難民更好選擇的方法勝過那三個基本的不可能的選項我剛剛向你們所解釋的（選項）並且仍然能夠讓他們人的生活變得更好。 總之，我們真的需要一個新的遠見，一個加增難民可以選擇的選項的遠見並且認識到它們不必成為一種負擔。難民並非無可避免地一定會成為社會成本。是的，他們是一種人道主義的責任，但他們也是具備技能、才能、和志向的人類，他們具有作出貢獻的能力——如果我們允許的話。 在新世界中，人口遷徙是不會消失的。我們在歐洲所看到的將會伴隨著我們多年。人們會繼續旅行，他們也會繼續被取代，而我們需要去尋求理性的，現實的管理方法不是基於舊的關於人道援助的邏輯，不是基於慈善的邏輯而是著眼于機會提供自全球化、市場和流動性。我力勸你們清醒過來，力勸我們的政客們去意識到這個挑戰。 非常感謝你們。 （鼓掌）
