Talk	en	zh-tw
alex_kipman_the_dawn_of_the_age_of_holograms	"Thousands of years from now, we'll look back at the first century of computing as a fascinating but very peculiar time — the only time in history where humans were reduced to live in 2D space, interacting with technology as if we were machines; a singular, 100-year period in the vastness of time where humans communicated, were entertained and managed their lives from behind a screen. Today, we spend most of our time tapping and looking at screens. What happened to interacting with each other? I don't know about you, but I feel limited inside this 2D world of monitors and pixels. And it is this very limitation and my desire to connect with people that inspires me as a creator. Put simply: I want to create a new reality, a reality where technology brings us infinitely closer to each other, a reality where people, not devices, are the center of everything. I dream of a reality where technology senses what we see, touch and feel; a reality where technology no longer gets in our way, but instead embraces who we are. I dream of technology on a human path. We have all experienced technology that enables people to act more like people, products that enable natural interactions, voice controls or biometrics. This is the next step in the evolution. This is Microsoft HoloLens, the first fully untethered holographic computer. Devices like this will bring 3D holographic content right into our world, enhancing the way we experience life beyond our ordinary range of perceptions. Now, I'm not thinking about a distant future. I'm talking about today. We are already seeing car companies like Volvo designing cars differently with HoloLens; universities like Case Western redefining the way medical students learn; and my personal favorite, NASA is using HoloLens to let scientists explore planets holographically. Now, this is important. By bringing holograms into our world, I'm not just talking about a new device or a better computer. I'm talking about freeing ourselves from the 2D confines of traditional computing. Put it this way: temporally adjusted, we're like cave people in computer terms. We've barely discovered charcoal and started drawing the first stick figures in our cave. Now, this is the perspective I apply to my work every single day. And now for the next few minutes, I invite all of you to apply the same perspective to the journey ahead of us. Now, as I put this HoloLens on, let me explain the setup a little bit. It's probably the most risky demo we have ever done on any stage with HoloLens, and I can't think of a better place to do it than here at TED. Momentarily, I am going to be seeing holograms right on this stage, just as clearly as I can see all of you. Now at the same time, we have also this special camera that just walked in onstage so that all of you can share in this experience with me up on all the monitors. So let's start our journey. And what better place to begin our journey, than in the computer cave of 2D. Let's explore the world all around us with this new lens, and understand the computer world from a brand new perspective. The computer universe is both marvelous and primitive. It's a universe based on causality. As developers, we dream the different causes and then we program the different effects. Double click on an icon, that's a cause. Open an application, that's an effect. Now when we compare this to our physical universe, it is overly constraining, because our universe is not digital. Our universe is analog. Our universe doesn't think in terms of zero or one, true or false, or black or white. We exist in a world governed by quantum physics, a universe of zero and one both at the same time, a reality based on infinite probabilities and shades of gray. You can see how these two worlds collide. So why are screens so pervasive in our analog life? We see screens from the moment we wake up, to the moment we fall asleep. Why? I think it's because computers give us superpowers. Within the digital universe, we have the power to displace space and the power to displace time. It doesn't matter if you're using technology for entertainment, productivity or communication. Think of it this way: let's all go home tonight and watch our favorite show on television. This is theater — time and space displaced. As soon as I'm done with this TED Talk, I'm going to immediately call my lovely family in Seattle. That's displacement of space. Now, these are such great superpowers that we put up with the two-dimensional limitations of our current digital world. But what if we didn't have to? What if we could have these same digital powers in our world? You can already see glimmers of this, but I believe our children's children will grow up in a world devoid of 2D technology. It's remarkable to dream of this world, a world where technology truly understands us — where we live, work and communicate — with tools that enhance the human experience, not machines that limit our humanity. So how do we get there? For me, the answer required looking at the problem from a different perspective. It required sensing the world from the perspective of a machine. If you're a machine trying to sense our world, how would you actually break the problem down? You'd probably try to classify things as a human, an environment or an object. But how would that machine then interact with reality? And I can think of three ways. First, as a machine, I would observe or I would input reality. Speech recognition and biometric authentication are great examples of a machine interacting with humans from an input perspective. Secondly, as a machine, I could place digital information, or output information, into reality. Holograms are examples of a machine interacting with an environment from an output perspective. Finally, as a machine, I could exchange energy with the world via haptics. Now, imagine being able to feel the temperature of a virtual object, or better yet, imagine pushing a hologram and having it push you back with equal force. With this perspective, we are able to collapse reality into a simple matrix. Now here's a secret: as an engineer, I get really excited anytime I can reduce something to the matrix. From self-driving cars to smartphones to this holographic computer on my head, machines are becoming capable of understanding our world. And they are starting to interact with us in significantly more personal ways. Now, imagine having granular control over everything in the world. Move the dial one way, and you get reality. Move the dial the other way, and you get virtual reality. Now, imagine dialing your entire environment between virtual and real worlds. I love it down here. Now, imagine if I could look at all of you and dial from real humans into elves. When technology truly understands our world, it will again transform the ways we interact, the ways we work and the ways we play. Less than half a century ago, two courageous men landed on the moon, using computers that were less powerful than the phones in your pockets. Six hundred million humans watched them on grainy, black-and-white televisions. And the world? The world was mesmerized. Now imagine how our children and their children will experience the continued exploration of space with technology that understands this world. We already live in a world where real-time universal translators exist. And I can squint, and I can already see holographic telepresence in our near future. In fact, since we've been lucky with our demo so far, let's try doing something else even more crazy. I invite you to experience, for the first time anywhere in the world, here on the TED stage, a real-life holographic teleportation, between me and my friend, Dr. Jeffrey Norris, from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Finger crossed. Hi, Jeff. Jeff Norris: Hey, Alex. Alex Kipman: Phew! That worked. How are you doing today, Jeff? (Applause) JN: Doing great. I had an awesome week. AK: So, can you tell us a little bit, Jeff, about where you are? JN: Well, I'm actually in three places. I'm standing in a room across the street, while I'm standing on this stage with you, while I'm standing on Mars, a hundred million miles away. AK: Wow, a hundred million miles away. This is crazy! Can you tell us a little bit more about where all this data from Mars is coming from? JN: Absolutely. This is a precise holographic replica of Mars, built from data captured by the Curiosity Mars Rover, that I can explore as easily as a place on Earth. Humans are natural explorers. We can instantly understand an environment, just by being present in it. We've built tools like our Mars Rover to extend our vision and lengthen our reach. But for decades, we've explored from a seat behind screens and keyboards. Now, we're leaping over all of that, over the giant antennas and the relay satellites and the vastness between worlds to take our first steps on this landscape as if we were truly there. Today, a group of scientists on our mission are seeing Mars as never before — an alien world made a little more familiar, because they're finally exploring it as humans should. But our dreams don't have to end with making it just like being there. When we dial this real world to the virtual, we can do magical things. We can see in invisible wavelengths or teleport to the top of a mountain. Perhaps someday, we'll feel the minerals in a rock just by touching it. We're taking the first steps. But we want the whole world to join us in taking the next, because this is not a journey for a few, but for all of us. AK: Thank you Jeff, this was amazing. Thank you so much for joining us on the TED stage today. (Applause) JN: Thank you Alex, bye bye. AK: Bye, Jeff. (Applause) I dream about this future every single day. I take inspiration from our ancestors. We used to live in tribes where we interacted, communicated and worked together. We are all beginning to build technology that will enable us to return to the humanity that brought us where we are today — technology that will let us stop living inside this 2D world of monitors and pixels, and let us start remembering what it feels like to live in our 3D world. It's a phenomenal time to be human. Thank you. (Applause) Helen Walters: Thanks so much. I have some questions. AK: OK. HW: So there's been some talk in the press. And I'll just ask you straight, then we have a straight answer. There's been talk about the difference between the demos and the reality of the commercial product. Talk about this field of view issue. Is this type of experience what someone who buys the product will get? AK: It's a great question, Or, said better, this is a question we've been receiving in the media for possibly the last year. If you do your research, I haven't answered that question. I've purposely ignored it, because ultimately, it's the wrong question to ask. That's the equivalent of me showing holograms to someone for the first time, and you then saying, ""What's the size of your television?"" The field of view for the product is almost irrelevant. What we should be talking about is the density of lights, or radiance, that shows up. Better said, what the angular resolution is of the things that you see. So from that perspective, what you saw — you know, the camera is wearing a HoloLens. So even if I wanted to cheat, I can't. HW: But the camera has a different lens on it than our eye. Right? AK: The camera has a fish-eye lens on it. It's seeing a much wider view than the human eye is. So if you think about the points of light that show up radially from the vision of the camera, which is the thing that matters: how many points of light can I get in a given volume? That's the same as I get on this HoloLens as I will on that one. Now, this camera sees a much wider view of the world, right? HW: Jesus Christ! (Laughter) AK: He did show up! I told you he'd show up. Come this way. (Laughter) HW: Oh, shit. AK: And there's holographic Jeff Norris. HW: I knew something was happening, but I really wasn't sure what. AK: So in short: to be super crisp, the camera that you see on the screen has a wider field of view than the human eye. But the angular resolution of the holograms that you see, the points of light per unit of area, are actually the same. HW: So you spent — Jeff, I'll get to you in a minute — so you spent a lot of time mapping the stage — AK: That's right. HW: So help me out here: if I buy a HoloLens and have it at home, I don't need to map my apartment, right? AK: The HoloLens maps in real time at about five frames per second, with this technology that we call spatial mapping. So in your home, as soon as you put it on, holograms will start showing up, and you'll start placing them and they'll start learning your home. In a stage environment where we're trying to get something on my head to communicate with something over there with all of the wireless connectivity that usually brings all conferences down, we don't take the risk of trying to do this live. So what we do is pre-map the stage at five frames per second with the same spatial-mapping technology that you'll use with the product at home, and then we store it, so that when there's shenanigans of wireless in an environment like this, between the camera's HoloLens and the one on my head, we don't have things disappear. Because ultimately, the holograms are coming from this HoloLens, and that one is just viewing the HoloLens. So if I lose connectivity, you would stop seeing beautiful things on the screen. HW: And it was beautiful. Um ... Jeff? JN: Yes? HW: Hi. AK: I'll take a step back. HW: So Jeff, you were on Mars, you were here, you were in a room across the street. Tell me more about the fact that, with holograms, you have sight but you don't have touch, you don't have smell. Is this scientifically useful now? That's my question for a hologram. JN: Thanks for the question. Absolutely, I believe that these technologies are scientifically useful right now, and that's why we're using them in multiple parts of our work at NASA. So we're using it to improve the ways that we explore Mars. We're also using it for our astronauts on the space station. We're even using it now to design the next generation of our spacecraft. HW: Amazing. OK, Jeff, please go away. Thank you very much. (Laughter) Alex, really, that was amazing. Thank you so much. AK: Thank you. HW: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"幾千年後，人們將回顧電腦運算的第一個世紀，這是一個迷人但也非常特殊的時代，人類歷史上，唯一局限于2D空間生活的時期，人類與科技的互動，彷彿我們才是機器一樣;浩瀚歷史中這一百年間，人類的溝通、娛樂與生活都在螢幕面前。如今，我們花大部分的時間在滑手機和看螢幕。那我們彼此的互動呢？我不知道你們感受如何，但在2D螢幕與像素的世界，我感覺非常受限。就是因為這種非常受限之感，以及我對人類連結的渴望，激勵我成為一位創造者。簡單地說：我想創造一個新的實境，一個讓科技帶給我們更為親近的實境，一個以人為一切中心的實境，而不是以設備為中心在我夢想的實境中：科技可以偵測到我們所看到的、摸到的、感覺到的；科技不再擋住我們去路，而是擁抱我們。我夢想一種更貼近人類的科技我們都體驗過可以讓人們使用起來更具人性的科技，我們也使用過產品， 不僅具有自然的互動性、還有聲音控制或生物辨識性。這是下一代革命性產品。這是微軟的全像眼鏡，全球第一部完全無線的全像電腦。像這樣的設備將引領我們進入3D的全像世界。它可以增進我們體驗生活的方式，會超出我們平常的感受範圍。我不是在思考遙不可及的未來科技。我現在講的是現今的科技。我們已經看到 Volvo 汽車公司，開始把全像鏡頭設計在他們的車子上；凱斯西儲大學已經重新定義他們醫學生的學習方式；以及我個人最愛的，美國太空總署已開始使用全像眼鏡讓科學家們可以全像式地探索星球。現在，這件事很重要。將全像景帶到我們的世界裡。我現在談的不只是一個新設備或是更好的電腦。我現在談的是把我們自己從傳統的2D電腦侷限中解放出來。這樣說好了：暫時扭轉一下視角，用電腦術語來說，我們現在是山頂洞人。我們好不容易找到木炭，並開始在我們的山洞裏畫第一個圖案。我就是以這樣的視角投入到每日工作中的接下來幾分鐘，我邀請各位以同樣的視角一起來體驗一場冒險之旅吧！現在，我戴上這個全像眼鏡...讓我先稍微解釋一下設定原理。這可能是我們最冒險的一次現場全像眼鏡演示我也想不出有哪一個地方比TED這邊更適合的了。稍後，在這講台上，我就可以看到全像景。跟我能看到你們一樣地清楚。同一時間，我們有一台特殊的攝影機，會在講台旁移動，讓各位可以從上面的螢幕一起與我體驗相同的經歷。讓我們開始我們的旅程吧！哪一個地方會比2D的電腦山洞更適合開始我們的旅程？讓我們用這個新的透鏡來探索周遭的世界，並從一個全新的角度來了解電腦的世界。電腦的世界神奇而原始。它是一個以因果關係為基礎的世界。身為開發者，我們夢想不同的因，然後程式設計出不同的果。雙擊圖示，這是因。打開應用程式，這是果。當我們用這套框架來跟現實世界比較時，它是相當受限的，因為我們的世界不是數位的。我們的世界是類比的。我們的世界不會用0或1對或錯、黑或白的字眼來想事情。我們存在一個由量子物理所統治的世界，一個0與1同時存在的世界。一個基於無限可能與灰色地帶交織的現實世界。你可以看到這兩個世界是如何碰撞的。所以為什麼螢幕在我們的類比生活中這麼普遍？我們每天起床的那一刻就開始看螢幕，直到我們睡著的那一刻。為什麼會這樣？我想是因為電腦能給我們超能力。在數位世界裡，我們有能力可以置換空間，有能力可以置換時間。不管你是用科技在娛樂、生產或溝通。想像一下這種方式：今晚，我們全部人都回到家，在電視上看我們最愛的節目。這是劇院，時間與空間都置換了。就在我進行TED演講的同時，我要立刻打電話給我在西雅圖的家人。這是空間的置換。如此偉大的超能力，我們卻讓它受限于2D的數位世界裡但，要是我們沒必要呢？要是我們把同樣的數位超能力用在我們的現實世界裏，會如何呢？你已經可以看到這件事的曙光，但我相信我們孩子的孩子將會生長在一個完全沒有2D技術的世界裡。夢想這樣的世界是非凡的，一個科技真正懂我們的世界，伴隨我們居住、工作、溝通的是增進人類體驗的工具，而不是限制我們人性的機械。所以我們要如何做到呢？對我而言，要從不同的角度來看這個問題，才能得到答案。它必須能從機械的視角來偵測這個世界。如果你是一個機器，嘗試要偵測我們的世界，你要如何確實地解決這個問題呢？你可能要嘗試會分辨事物，要會分辨人類，要會分辨環境，或是一個物體。但之後機器要如何與現實世界互動呢？我認為有三種方式。首先，做為一台機器，我會觀察這個世界或者説輸入訊息。語音辨識及生物鑑定是通過輸入資料從而實現人機互動的好方法其次，做為一台機器，我可以把數位資訊置換成實境或者說輸出資訊。全像攝影即爲一種方式通過輸出資訊實現機器與環境互動。最後，做為一台機器，我可以透過觸覺來跟這個世界交換能量。現在，想像你可以感覺到虛擬物體的溫度，或甚至，想像你在推一個全像影像，它也會回推一樣的力道回來給你。有了這樣的視野，我們就可以把複雜的實體壓縮成為一個簡單的矩陣。這就是秘密：身為一位工程師，我相當興奮我可以在任何時候把某樣東西簡化為矩陣。從自動駕駛車到智慧型手機到我頭上這台全像電腦，機器越來越具備理解我們世界的能力然後它們開始用一種特殊的個性化方式與我們互動。現在想像一下，我們有世界上每樣東西的顆粒狀控制器。這樣轉動它你會得到實境。轉到另一個方向，你會得到虛擬實境。現在，想像一下，在虛擬與真實世界之間轉動你的整個環境。我喜歡這樣的景色。現在，想像一下，如果我可以看到你們，並可以把人類轉換成精靈。當科技真正了解我們的世界，它將會再次地轉變我們互動的方式，轉變我們工作、娛樂的方式。差不多半世紀前，兩位英勇的男士登陸到月球，使用的電腦能力比你現在口袋裡的手機能力還要弱。六億人口在粗糙的黑白電視上在看著他們。而全世界？全世界相當的著迷。現在想像一下，我們的孩子，他們的孩子將會用瞭解這世界的科技來繼續體驗接下來的太空探險。我們已經住在一個即時傳送器存在的世界。我幾乎可以看到，在不久的未來，人們用全像遠程進行通訊。事實上，既然我們目前為止展示的還算順利，讓我們再嘗試做一些更瘋狂的事。我邀請各位體驗，走遍全世界看不到的，今天第一次在TED演講台上，向各位展示一個全像的即時遠距離傳輸，一位來自美國太空總署我的朋友Jeffrey Norris博士和我之間的示範。十指交扣祈禱一下，嗨，Jeff。Jeff Norris：嗨，Alex。Alex Kipman：呼！成功了。你今天好嗎？Jeff？（掌聲）JN：我很好。我這禮拜過的超棒。AK：好，Jeff，你可以透露一下告訴大家，你現在在哪裡嗎？JN：好，我實際上站在三個地方。我現在站在對街的一個房間裡，同時我也跟你一起站在講台上，同時間，我也正站在距離一億英哩遠的火星上。AK：哇！一億英哩，真瘋狂！你可以告訴我們一些有關火星上傳輸過來的資訊嗎？JN：沒問題！這是一個精確的火星全像副本，這些資料是由好奇號火星車所擷取建立的，這讓我如同在地球上輕鬆地探索一樣。人類是天生的探險家。我們可以藉由身歷其境，快速地了解一個環境。我們已經建立像是火星車的工具，來拓展我們的視野及延長我們能到達的地方。但，已經有好幾十年，我們一直在螢幕和鍵盤前的座位上探索。現在，我們跨過這些障礙，跨過巨型天線、中繼衛星，和兩個星球之間遙遠的距離，踏出我們在火星上的第一步，就如同我們身歷其境一樣。現今，我們任務中的科學家團隊正以前所未有的方式探索火星—一個遙遠陌生的外星世界變得稍稍熟悉，因為他們終于以人類的方式去探索它。但我們的夢想不止于此。當我們把這個真實的世界轉變成虛擬的，我們可以做出神奇的事情。我們可以在看不見的電磁波裡看到東西，或瞬間移動到山頂。也許有一天，我們將可以藉由觸碰一顆石頭就感覺到它的礦物質成分。我們踏出了第一步。但我們希望全世界可以加入我們接手下一步，因為這不是少數人的冒險旅程，而是我們大家的。AK：謝謝你，Jeff，太棒了。謝謝你今天可以站在TED講台上和我們分享。（掌聲）JN：謝謝你的參加，Alex，再見。AK：再見，Jeff。（掌聲）我每天都在夢想這個未來。我的靈感來自我們的祖先。我們習慣住在我們互動、溝通、一起工作的部落中。今日，我們正在建立的科技，可以帶領我們重返我們的人性。科技可以讓我們不再限於住在2D的螢幕與畫素世界裡。而讓我們開始重新回憶住在3D世界是怎樣的感覺。這是一個歷史性的時刻，科技回歸人性。謝謝各位！（掌聲）Helen Walters：非常感謝，我有一些問題。AK：好的。HW：媒體已經有一些討論。我們快問快答。那就是對於臺上演示和產品實際效果之間的差異人們持不同看法。你這個產品買來就會有這種體驗嗎？AK：這是個好問題。或者，更進一步說，這個問題去年我們在媒體上就被問到過。如果你有做研究，我沒有回答那個問題。我故意不回答，因為最後會證明，它是一個錯的問題。這等同於我第一次展示全像攝影給某人看一樣。然後，你接下問，""你電視的尺寸是多少？""這類問題與產品本身幾乎是毫無關係的。我們應該要討論的是燈光的密度，或燈光的亮度。進一步說明，你看到的東西的角度分辨率是多少。所以，從你看到的觀點—你知道，攝影機有帶著全視眼鏡。所以即使我想作弊，我都沒辦法。HW：但攝影機跟我們眼睛有不一樣的鏡頭，對吧？AK：有一個魚眼鏡頭在攝影機上面。它的視野比人類眼睛還要廣。所以，如果你在考慮攝影機光點輻射出的範圍，那才是重點：我在一定的體積內可以得到多少光點？這跟我戴的全像眼鏡是一樣的。現在，這個攝影機可以看到更廣的世界，對吧？HW：我的天啊！（笑聲）AK：他會出現！我跟你說過他會出現吧！過來這邊。（笑聲）HW：喔！嚇死人了！AK：這是 Jeff Norris 的全像景。HW：我知道有事發生，但我不確定是甚麼。AK：簡而言之你在螢幕上看到的攝影機的視野比人眼的視野還要廣。但你看到的全像景的角度解析度也就是每個單位面積的光點實際上都是一樣的。HW：所以，你花了—Jeff，等我一下—你花了很多的時間在測繪講台—AK：沒錯。HW：幫我釐清一下：如果我買了這個產品回家，我不需要測繪我的住家，對吧？AK：全像眼鏡的即時測繪能力是每秒五個框架，我們稱這個技術叫""空間測繪""。所以，你回到家，戴上它後，全像鏡頭就會跑出來，你就可以開始設置它們，它們就會開始學習判讀你家。我們嘗試把講台環境輸進到我頭上的裝置，以便於跟那邊的東西做溝通，全部都是無線連結的方式，這會拖慢會場議程的進行，但我們不想在現場直播時出錯。所以，我們以每秒5格框架的速度，把講台做了事先測繪的動作，也是跟你買回家裡的產品使用同樣的測繪技術來進行的。然後我們把它儲存起來，這樣一來，在這樣的環境下，如果無綫連結信號出現小問題，攝影機上的全像鏡頭跟我頭上這一台眼鏡，之前測繪的數據不至於消失。因為最後，全像景都是從這個全像眼鏡出來，而攝影機只是看著全像眼鏡。所以，我如果中斷連結。你就無法在螢幕上看到這美麗的事物了。HW：它真的很漂亮。嗯....Jeff？JN：我在啊？HW：嗨！AK：我退後一點。HW：所以，Jeff，你在火星上，你也在這裡，你同時也在對街的房間裡。告訴我更多有關於你使用全像眼鏡的實情，你看的到，但你摸不到，聞不到。這項技術目前對於科學研究來説有用嗎？這是我對全像景的問題。JN：謝謝你的提問。絕對是的，我相信這些技術目前對科學研究很有用，這也是我們在美國太空總署的多項工作中使用它的原因所以，我們正利用它來改善我們探索火星的方式。我們也有替太空站的太空人使用它。我們甚至用它來設計我們下一代的太空船。HW：好的，可以請你離開了，非常謝謝你。（笑聲）Alex，真的，太神奇了，非常謝謝你。AK：謝謝你。HW:：謝謝你。謝謝你。（掌聲）"
