Talk	en	zh-tw
ali_carr_chellman_gaming_to_re_engage_boys_in_learning	"So I'm here to tell you that we have a problem with boys, and it's a serious problem with boys. Their culture isn't working in schools, and I'm going to share with you ways that we can think about overcoming that problem. First, I want to start by saying, this is a boy, and this is a girl, and this is probably stereotypically what you think of as a boy and a girl. If I essentialize gender for you today, then you can dismiss what I have to say. So I'm not going to do that, I'm not interested in doing that. This is a different kind of boy and a different kind of girl. So the point here is that not all boys exist within these rigid boundaries of what we think of as boys and girls, and not all girls exist within those rigid boundaries of what we think of as girls. But, in fact, most boys tend to be a certain way, and most girls tend to be a certain way. And the point is that, for boys, the way that they exist and the culture that they embrace isn't working well in schools now. How do we know that? The 100 girls project tells us some really nice statistics. For example, for every 100 girls that are suspended from school, there are 250 boys that are suspended from school. For every 100 girls who are expelled from school, there are 335 boys who are expelled from school. For every 100 girls in special education, there are 217 boys. For every 100 girls with a learning disability, there are 276 boys. For every 100 girls with an emotional disturbance diagnosed, we have 324 boys. And by the way, all of these numbers are significantly higher if you happen to be black, if you happen to be poor, if you happen to exist in an overcrowded school. And if you are a boy, you're four times as likely to be diagnosed with ADHD — Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. Now there is another side to this. And it is important that we recognize that women still need help in school, that salaries are still significantly lower, even when controlled for job types, and that girls have continued to struggle in math and science for years. That's all true. Nothing about that prevents us from paying attention to the literacy needs of our boys between ages three and 13. And so we should. In fact, what we ought to do is take a page from their playbook, because the initiatives and programs that have been set in place for women in science and engineering and mathematics are fantastic. They've done a lot of good for girls in these situations, and we ought to be thinking about how we can make that happen for boys too in their younger years. Even in their older years, what we find is that there's still a problem. When we look at the universities, 60 percent of baccalaureate degrees are going to women now, which is a significant shift. And in fact, university administrators are a little uncomfortable about the idea that we may be getting close to 70 percent female population in universities. This makes university administrators very nervous, because girls don't want to go to schools that don't have boys. And so we're starting to see the establishment of men centers and men studies to think about how do we engage men in their experiences in the university. If you talk to faculty, they may say, ""Ugh. Yeah, well, they're playing video games, and they're gambling online all night long, and they're playing World of Warcraft, and that's affecting their academic achievement."" Guess what? Video games are not the cause. Video games are a symptom. They were turned off a long time before they got here. So let's talk about why they got turned off when they were between the ages of three and 13. There are three reasons that I believe that boys are out of sync with the culture of schools today. The first is zero tolerance. A kindergarten teacher I know, her son donated all of his toys to her, and when he did, she had to go through and pull out all the little plastic guns. You can't have plastic knives and swords and axes and all that kind of thing in a kindergarten classroom. What is it that we're afraid that this young man is going to do with this gun? I mean, really. But here he stands as testament to the fact that you can't roughhouse on the playground today. Now I'm not advocating for bullies. I'm not suggesting that we need to be allowing guns and knives in the school. But when we say that an Eagle Scout in a high school classroom who has a locked parked car in the parking lot and a penknife in it, has to be suspended from school, I think we may have gone a little too far with zero tolerance. Another way that zero tolerance lives itself out is in the writing of boys. In a lot of classrooms today, you're not allowed to write about anything that's violent. You're not allowed to write about anything that has to do with video games. These topics are banned. Boy comes home from school, and he says, ""I hate writing."" ""Why do you hate writing, son? What's wrong with writing?"" ""Now I have to write what she tells me to write."" ""OK, what is she telling you to write?"" ""Poems. I have to write poems. And little moments in my life. I don't want to write that stuff."" ""Well, what do you want to write? What do you want to write about?"" ""I want to write about video games. I want to write about leveling-up. I want to write about this really interesting world. I want to write about a tornado that comes into our house and blows all the windows out, and ruins all the furniture and kills everybody."" ""All right. OK."" You tell a teacher that, and they'll ask you, in all seriousness, ""Should we send this child to the psychologist?"" And the answer is no, he's just a boy. He's just a little boy. It's not OK to write these kinds of things in classrooms today. So that's the first reason: Zero tolerance policies and the way they're lived out. The next reason that boys' cultures are out of sync with school cultures: there are fewer male teachers. Anybody who's over 15 doesn't know what this means, because in the last 10 years, the number of elementary school classroom teachers has been cut in half. We went from 14 percent to seven percent. That means that 93 percent of the teachers that our young men get in elementary classrooms are women. Now what's the problem with this? Women are great, yep, absolutely. But male role models for boys that say it's all right to be smart — they've got dads, they've got pastors, they've got Cub Scout leaders, but ultimately, six hours a day, five days a week they're spending in a classroom, and most of those classrooms are not places where men exist. And so they say, I guess this really isn't a place for boys. This is a place for girls. And I'm not very good at this, so I guess I'd better go play video games or get into sports, or something like that, because I obviously don't belong here. Men don't belong here, that's pretty obvious. So that may be a very direct way that we see it happen. But less directly, the lack of male presence in the culture — you've got a teachers' lounge, and they're having a conversation about Joey and Johnny who beat each other up on the playground. ""What are we going to do with these boys?"" The answer to that question changes depending on who's sitting around that table. Are there men around that table? Are there moms who've raised boys around that table? You'll see, the conversation changes depending upon who's sitting around the table. Third reason that boys are out of sync with school today: Kindergarten is the old second grade, folks. We have a serious compression of the curriculum happening out there. When you're three, you better be able to write your name legibly, or else we'll consider it a developmental delay. By the time you're in first grade, you should be able to read paragraphs of text with maybe a picture, maybe not, in a book of maybe 25 to 30 pages. If you don't, we're probably going to be putting you into a Title I special reading program. And if you ask Title I teachers, they'll tell you they've got about four or five boys for every girl that's in their program, in the elementary grades. The reason that this is a problem is because the message that boys are getting is, ""You need to do what the teacher asks you to do all the time."" The teacher's salary depends on ""No Child Left Behind"" and ""Race to the Top"" and accountability and testing and all of this. So she has to figure out a way to get all these boys through this curriculum — and girls. This compressed curriculum is bad for all active kids. And what happens is, she says, ""Please, sit down, be quiet, do what you're told, follow the rules, manage your time, focus, be a girl."" That's what she tells them. Indirectly, that's what she tells them. And so this is a very serious problem. Where is it coming from? It's coming from us. (Laughter) We want our babies to read when they are six months old. Have you seen the ads? We want to live in Lake Wobegon where every child is above average ... but what this does to our children is really not healthy. It's not developmentally appropriate, and it's particularly bad for boys. So what do we do? We need to meet them where they are. We need to put ourselves into boy culture. We need to change the mindset of acceptance in boys in elementary schools. More specifically, we can do some very specific things. We can design better games. Most of the educational games that are out there today are really flashcards. They're glorified drill and practice. They don't have the depth, the rich narrative that really engaging video games have, that the boys are really interested in. So we need to design better games. We need to talk to teachers and parents and school board members and politicians. We need to make sure that people see that we need more men in the classroom. We need to look carefully at our zero tolerance policies. Do they make sense? We need to think about how to uncompress this curriculum if we can, trying to bring boys back into a space that is comfortable for them. All of those conversations need to be happening. There are some great examples out there of schools — the New York Times just talked about a school recently. A game designer from the New School put together a wonderful video gaming school. But it only treats a few kids, and so this isn't very scalable. We have to change the culture and the feelings that politicians and school board members and parents have about the way we accept and what we accept in our schools today. We need to find more money for game design. Because good games, really good games, cost money, and World of Warcraft has quite a budget. Most of the educational games do not. Where we started: my colleagues Mike Petner, Shawn Vashaw, myself, we started by trying to look at the teachers' attitudes and find out how do they really feel about gaming, what do they say about it. And we discovered that they talk about the kids in their school, who talk about gaming, in pretty demeaning ways. They say, ""Oh, yeah. They're always talking about that stuff. They're talking about their little action figures and their little achievements or merit badges, or whatever it is that they get. And they're always talking about this stuff."" And they say these things as if it's OK. But if it were your culture, think of how that might feel. It's very uncomfortable to be on the receiving end of that kind of language. They're nervous about anything that has anything to do with violence because of the zero tolerance policies. They are sure that parents and administrators will never accept anything. So we really need to think about looking at teacher attitudes and finding ways to change the attitudes, so that teachers are much more open and accepting of boy cultures in their classrooms. Because, ultimately, if we don't, then we're going to have boys who leave elementary school saying, ""Well I guess that was just a place for girls, it wasn't for me. So I've got to do gaming, or I've got to do sports."" If we change these things, if we pay attention to these things, and we reengage boys in their learning, they will leave the elementary schools saying, ""I'm smart."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我來這裡的目的是要告訴你我們有一個男孩子的問題而且是一個非常嚴重的問題他們的文化跟學校的文化無法融合。我要跟你們分享克服這個問題的方法。第一，我要說明的是，這是一名男孩，這是一名女孩。這是典型的男孩和女孩的定義假如我今天跟你討論性別的不同的話那你可以對我要說的話不予理會。因此我不會那麼做，我沒有興趣去那麼做。這是另一種男孩和另一種女孩我要指出的是不是所有的男孩都是在這種嚴格的男女標準底下存在的同樣的，不是所有的女孩都是在這種嚴格的女性標準底下存在的。但是，大部分的男生是有某一些共同點，而女生也會有另一些共同點我要指出的是，對男生而言他們的生存方式和文化不適用於現在的學校制度裡。 我們怎麼曉得這一點呢？一百名女孩的方案給我們一些很好的統計數據。讓我舉例說明：每一百名被停學的女孩有相對的兩百五十名男孩被停學。每一百名被開除的女生，會有相對的三百三十五名男生被開除。每一百名接受特殊教育的女生，有相對的兩百十七名男生。每一百名有學習障礙的女生就會有相對的兩百七十六名男生。每一百名被判斷為有心理問題的女生，我們有相對的三百二十四名男生。還有，這些數據在以下的情況底下更會明顯地上漲：假如你是黑人，或是家境貧困，或是在一所過於擁擠的學校上學。假如你是男生，你有四倍以上的幾率被判斷為有ADHD—注意力不足過動症 凡事總得看兩面我們必須接受的事實是女生在學校裡還需要幫助，她們的薪水還是相對地偏低，即使經過工作類別的調整以後，女生還在數學和科學的科目持續地掙扎。這些都是事實。沒有事情妨礙我們關注三到十三歲的男孩的讀寫能力因此我們應該這麼做的。我們更該向她們學習因為這些倡議和方案被建設是為了針對女生在科學，工程學和數學的問題而且都是一流的。它們為了在這種情況的女生帶來很多好處。我們該想的是我們能夠為男生作同樣的事情嗎？在年幼的時候製造這樣的機會嗎？ 即使在他們長大以後我們還發現同樣的問題。讓我們來看看大學百分之六十的學士學位中為女性，這是一項明顯的改變。大學的負責人擔心我們開始接近百分之七十的女生入學率。這讓大學的負責人非常的緊張，因為女生一般不希望到沒有男生的學校。我們也開始觀察到有男性中心和男性研究的科目的成立讓我們研究我們該怎樣吸引男生而把他們融入大學的生活。假如你跟學院學人提及，他們也許會有這樣的反應，「唉，他們只顧著玩電子遊戲，徹夜賭博，玩魔獸世界就是這些影響著他們的學業表現。」其實呢電子遊戲不是起因。電子遊戲是一項症狀。他們失去興趣是很早以前已經發生的事情。 我們來討論一下他們為什麼會在三到十三歲的階段開始喪失興趣。我認為有三大主因讓男孩跟現在的學校文化脫節。第一是缺乏寬容的態度。我認識的一名幼稚園的老師，她的兒子把他所有的玩具都捐贈給她，他做完此舉，她還要檢查每一件玩具把塑膠槍拔走。塑膠刀、槍和斧等東西是不允許帶到幼兒園裡的。我們到底為什麼會擔心這小孩拿著這支槍，他能幹嘛呢？真的。但這清楚的表示今天你不能在遊樂園裡有任何比較粗暴的行為。我必需澄清，我不是倡議校園惡霸，我更不是提議我們需應批准人家把槍跟刀帶到校園裡。但當我們聽到有一名鷹級童子軍在高中學校裡因為停泊在停車場的，以鎖上的車子裡有一支小刀而因此被停學我覺得我們的零寬容過火了。 零寬容所造成的問題也在男孩子的作文裡出現。在很多的課堂裡你不能提及任何有暴力成分的東西。也不能接觸任何關於電子遊戲的東西， 這些題目都是被禁的。孩子下課回家說，「我討厭作文。」「孩子，你為什麼討厭作文呢？作文有什麼問題嗎？」「我要寫她希望我寫的東西。」「好，那她要你寫什麼呢？」「詩詞，我要寫詩。和我生命中的點點滴滴。我對那些事情沒興趣。」「好，那你要寫些什麼呢？你對什麼有興趣?」「我要寫關於電子遊戲的，我要寫升級的方法。」我要寫跟這世界有關的趣事。我要寫到有一場大颶風打到我們家把所有的窗戶吹破了摧毀了家裡所有的家具,然後所有的人都死了。」「嗯。好的。」你跟任何一名老師這樣說他們會認真的問你，「我們需要把這孩子送到心理醫生那裡嗎？」答案是不用，他只是一個男孩。他不過是一名小男孩。今天，課堂裡是不允許寫樣的東西的。 那是第一個原因零寬容的政策和它們實踐的方式。下一個導致男生文化跟學校脫節的原因是：學校缺乏男性老師。任何超過十五歲的人都不會明白我的意思，因為在過去的十年裡小學老師的數目被砍了一半。我們從百分之十四降到百分之七。也就是說明百分之九十三的教授男孩子的小學老師是女性。這構成什麼樣的問題呢？女性很偉大。對，絕對認同。但男性的典範讓他們接受聰明是好的他們有父親，有牧者有童子軍的首領但最終，每天六個小時，每星期五次他們都是在課堂裡度過的。大部分的課堂是沒有男性的地方。他們也就會想，這應該不是男生的地方。這是女生的地方。我這方面不是很強，也許我該去玩電玩，運動，或其他類似的活動，因為我明顯的不屬於這裡。很明顯的，男生不該在這裡。 那是一個能讓我們直接看到的情況。比較間接的，就是缺乏了男性的影響力－你在教師休息室裡，老師們在交頭接耳地討論Joey跟Johnny打架的經過。「這些男孩這樣我們該怎麼辦?」這個問題的答案會隨著參與討論的成員而改變。參與討論的成員中有男性嗎？有撫養這些孩子成人的媽媽嗎？你會發現話題會隨著參與討論的成員而改變。 男孩子跟學校脫節的第三個原因是：幼稚園已經變成二年級了。課程壓縮的是一個很嚴重的情況。到你三歲的時候，你應該能夠好好的書寫你的名字，要不然我們回把它當成發育障礙。你到一年級的時候，你應該能夠順利閱讀整段文字，不管有沒有圖畫的，二十到三十頁厚的書。如果你不成功的話，我們會把你調到Title 1的特別閱讀課程。假如你問Title 1的老師，他們會跟你說，他們班裡的男女比例是四到五名男孩對一名女孩，這是小學的情況。 這是一個問題因為男孩所接受到的訊息是，「你每次都需要按照老師的意思去做。」那老師的薪水是按照『沒有孩子被留下』 和『競爭往上』的責任和測試制度和這裡的一切。所以她必須想辦法讓這些男孩成功的通過這個課程 －女孩也是。這樣的壓縮課程是對所有活躍的孩子很不利的。接著發生的是，她會說，「請坐下來，安安靜靜的，聽話的，按規矩安排好你的時間，集中精神，做一名女生。」那是她跟他們說的話.那是她話裡背後的含義。這是一個很嚴重的問題。這問題是從那裡來的？是從我們而來的。【笑聲】我們希望我們的嬰兒在六個月大的時候開始閱讀。你看過廣告嗎？我們希望住在沒問題湖那裡每個孩子都是中等以上的。但這對於孩子來說是不健康的尤其是在成長發展的角度來說是不適合的，尤其對男孩構成特別大的傷害， 我們應該怎麼做？我們需要到他們的地方去迎接他們。我們必須把自己放到男孩的世界裡。我們需要改變的是小學裡接受男孩子的思想模式。我們需要做一些很具體的事情。我們要設計更好的遊戲。現在市面上的教育遊戲大多都是燒錄卡那其實不過是操練和練習。它們缺乏深度，缺乏故事性，跟吸引男生的遊戲不同。所以我們必須設計更好的遊戲。我們要跟老師和家長好好的溝通也跟校董會成員和政治家溝通。我們必須讓他們明白我們的學校裡需要更多的男性。我們必須仔細的檢閱我們的零容忍制度。他們合理嗎？我們要想想該怎樣把學校課程減壓把男孩子帶回一個適合他們的空間。這些討論都必需進行。 外界有很多好的學校的例子 －紐約時報最近報導一所新學校的遊戲設計員設計了一所美妙的電子遊戲學校。但這所學校只能接納幾名小孩，不是一個能延展的計畫。我們需要改變的文化和情緒就是政治家，校董會和家長對於在學校裡能接受的事物的方法和條件。我們需要投入更多的資源到遊戲設計。因為好的遊戲，真正好的遊戲，是需要錢的，魔獸世界就有很大的預算。大部分的教育遊戲卻是沒有的。我們的起點：我的同事－Mike Petner, Shawn Vashaw和我我們開始時是要研究老師的態度明白他們對電子遊戲的感覺和意見。我們發現當他們提及學校裡討論打電動的孩子時，都是用有貶意的態度來對待。他們會說，「對。他們總是不停地在討論那些事情.他們在討論他們的小卡通人物他們的小戰果或徽章，或他們能拿到手的東西，他們總是不停的討論著這些事情。」他們這樣說好像這樣說是沒事的。但假如那是你的文化試想像那感受會是怎樣。接受這樣的批評是讓人很不好受的。任何跟暴力可以扯上關係的事情都會讓他們感到非常的緊張這全都是因為零容忍的政策。它們非常肯定家長和學校負責人都不會接受任何事情。 因此我們應該鄭重的探討老師們的態度找方法去改變他們的態度讓老師們能更開放的更勇於接受男孩的文化在他們的課堂裡出現。我們如果沒有行動的話，就會導致一群離開小學的男孩說，「那是一個只適合女生的地方並不適合我。看來我要不是玩電玩，就是玩運動。」假如我們改變著一切，把精神投放在這些事情，重新吸引男生去學習他們就能在小學畢業時說，「我是聰明的。」 謝謝 【掌聲】
