Talk	en	zh-tw
alice_bows_larkin_we_re_too_late_to_prevent_climate_change_here_s_how_we_adapt	Over our lifetimes, we've all contributed to climate change. Actions, choices and behaviors will have led to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. And I think that that's quite a powerful thought. But it does have the potential to make us feel guilty when we think about decisions we might have made around where to travel to, how often and how, about the energy that we choose to use in our homes or in our workplaces, or quite simply the lifestyles that we lead and enjoy. But we can also turn that thought on its head, and think that if we've had such a profound but a negative impact on our climate already, then we have an opportunity to influence the amount of future climate change that we will need to adapt to. So we have a choice. We can either choose to start to take climate change seriously, and significantly cut and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions, and then we will have to adapt to less of the climate change impacts in future. Alternatively, we can continue to really ignore the climate change problem. But if we do that, we are also choosing to adapt to very much more powerful climate impacts in future. And not only that. As people who live in countries with high per capita emissions, we're making that choice on behalf of others as well. But the choice that we don't have is a no climate change future. Over the last two decades, our government negotiators and policymakers have been coming together to discuss climate change, and they've been focused on avoiding a two-degree centigrade warming above pre-industrial levels. That's the temperature that's associated with dangerous impacts across a range of different indicators, to humans and to the environment. So two degrees centigrade constitutes dangerous climate change. But dangerous climate change can be subjective. So if we think about an extreme weather event that might happen in some part of the world, and if that happens in a part of the world where there is good infrastructure, where there are people that are well-insured and so on, then that impact can be disruptive. It can cause upset, it could cause cost. It could even cause some deaths. But if that exact same weather event happens in a part of the world where there is poor infrastructure, or where people are not well-insured, or they're not having good support networks, then that same climate change impact could be devastating. It could cause a significant loss of home, but it could also cause significant amounts of death. So this is a graph of the CO2 emissions at the left-hand side from fossil fuel and industry, and time from before the Industrial Revolution out towards the present day. And what's immediately striking about this is that emissions have been growing exponentially. If we focus in on a shorter period of time from 1950, we have established in 1988 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, then rolling on a few years, in 2009 we had the Copenhagen Accord, where it established avoiding a two-degree temperature rise in keeping with the science and on the basis of equity. And then in 2012, we had the Rio+20 event. And all the way through, during all of these meetings and many others as well, emissions have continued to rise. And if we focus on our historical emission trend in recent years, and we put that together with our understanding of the direction of travel in our global economy, then we are much more on track for a four-degree centigrade global warming than we are for the two-degree centigrade. Now, let's just pause for a moment and think about this four-degree global average temperature. Most of our planet is actually made up of the sea. Now, because the sea has a greater thermal inertia than the land, the average temperatures over land are actually going to be higher than they are over the sea. The second thing is that we as human beings don't experience global average temperatures. We experience hot days, cold days, rainy days, especially if you live in Manchester like me. So now put yourself in a city center. Imagine somewhere in the world: Mumbai, Beijing, New York, London. It's the hottest day that you've ever experienced. There's sun beating down, there's concrete and glass all around you. Now imagine that same day — but it's six, eight, maybe 10 to 12 degrees warmer on that day during that heat wave. That's the kind of thing we're going to experience under a four-degree global average temperature scenario. And the problem with these extremes, and not just the temperature extremes, but also the extremes in terms of storms and other climate impacts, is our infrastructure is just not set up to deal with these sorts of events. So our roads and our rail networks have been designed to last for a long time and withstand only certain amounts of impacts in different parts of the world. And this is going to be extremely challenged. Our power stations are expected to be cooled by water to a certain temperature to remain effective and resilient. And our buildings are designed to be comfortable within a particular temperature range. And this is all going to be significantly challenged under a four-degree-type scenario. Our infrastructure has not been designed to cope with this. So if we go back, also thinking about four degrees, it's not just the direct impacts, but also some indirect impacts. So if we take food security, for example. Maize and wheat yields in some parts of the world are expected to be up to 40 percent lower under a four-degree scenario, rice up to 30 percent lower. This will be absolutely devastating for global food security. So all in all, the kinds of impacts anticipated under this four-degree centigrade scenario are going to be incompatible with global organized living. So back to our trajectories and our graphs of four degrees and two degrees. Is it reasonable still to focus on the two-degree path? There are quite a lot of my colleagues and other scientists who would say that it's now too late to avoid a two-degree warming. But I would just like to draw on my own research on energy systems, on food systems, aviation and also shipping, just to say that I think there is still a small fighting chance of avoiding this two-degree dangerous climate change. But we really need to get to grips with the numbers to work out how to do it. So if you focus in on this trajectory and these graphs, the yellow circle there highlights that the departure from the red four-degree pathway to the two-degree green pathway is immediate. And that's because of cumulative emissions, or the carbon budget. So in other words, because of the lights and the projectors that are on in this room right now, the CO2 that is going into our atmosphere as a result of that electricity consumption lasts a very long time. Some of it will be in our atmosphere for a century, maybe much longer. It will accumulate, and greenhouse gases tend to be cumulative. And that tells us something about these trajectories. First of all, it tells us that it's the area under these curves that matter, not where we reach at a particular date in future. And that's important, because it doesn't matter if we come up with some amazing whiz-bang technology to sort out our energy problem on the last day of 2049, just in the nick of time to sort things out. Because in the meantime, emissions will have accumulated. So if we continue on this red, four-degree centigrade scenario pathway, the longer we continue on it, that will need to be made up for in later years to keep the same carbon budget, to keep the same area under the curve, which means that that trajectory, the red one there, becomes steeper. So in other words, if we don't reduce emissions in the short to medium term, then we'll have to make more significant year-on-year emission reductions. We also know that we have to decarbonize our energy system. But if we don't start to cut emissions in the short to medium term, then we will have to do that even sooner. So this poses really big challenges for us. The other thing it does is tells us something about energy policy. If you live in a part of the world where per capita emissions are already high, it points us towards reducing energy demand. And that's because with all the will in the world, the large-scale engineering infrastructure that we need to roll out rapidly to decarbonize the supply side of our energy system is just simply not going to happen in time. So it doesn't matter whether we choose nuclear power or carbon capture and storage, upscale our biofuel production, or go for a much bigger roll-out of wind turbines and wave turbines. All of that will take time. So because it's the area under the curve that matters, we need to focus on energy efficiency, but also on energy conservation — in other words, using less energy. And if we do that, that also means that as we continue to roll out the supply-side technology, we will have less of a job to do if we've actually managed to reduce our energy consumption, because we will then need less infrastructure on the supply side. Another issue that we really need to grapple with is the issue of well-being and equity. There are many parts of the world where the standard of living needs to rise. Bbut with energy systems currently reliant on fossil fuel, as those economies grow so will emissions. And now, if we're all constrained by the same amount of carbon budget, that means that if some parts of the world's emissions are needing to rise, then other parts of the world's emissions need to reduce. So that poses very significant challenges for wealthy nations. Because according to our research, if you're in a country where per capita emissions are really high — so North America, Europe, Australia — emissions reductions of the order of 10 percent per year, and starting immediately, will be required for a good chance of avoiding the two-degree target. Let me just put that into context. The economist Nicholas Stern said that emission reductions of more than one percent per year had only ever been associated with economic recession or upheaval. So this poses huge challenges for the issue of economic growth, because if we have our high carbon infrastructure in place, it means that if our economies grow, then so do our emissions. So I'd just like to take a quote from a paper by myself and Kevin Anderson back in 2011 where we said that to avoid the two-degree framing of dangerous climate change, economic growth needs to be exchanged at least temporarily for a period of planned austerity in wealthy nations. This is a really difficult message to take, because what it suggests is that we really need to do things differently. This is not about just incremental change. This is about doing things differently, about whole system change, and sometimes it's about doing less things. And this applies to all of us, whatever sphere of influence we have. So it could be from writing to our local politician to talking to our boss at work or being the boss at work, or talking with our friends and family, or, quite simply, changing our lifestyles. Because we really need to make significant change. At the moment, we're choosing a four-degree scenario. If we really want to avoid the two-degree scenario, there really is no time like the present to act. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Alice, basically what you're saying, the talk is, unless wealthy nations start cutting 10 percent per year the emissions now, this year, not in 2020 or '25, we are going to go straight to the four-plus-degree scenario. I am wondering what's your take on the cut by 70 percent for 2070. Alice Bows-Larkin: Yeah, it's just nowhere near enough to avoid two degrees. One of the things that often — when there are these modeling studies that look at what we need to do, is they tend to hugely overestimate how quickly other countries in the world can start to reduce emissions. So they make kind of heroic assumptions about that. The more we do that, because it's the cumulative emissions, the short-term stuff that really matters. So it does make a huge difference. If a big country like China, for example, continues to grow even for just a few extra years, that will make a big difference to when we need to decarbonize. So I don't think we can even say when it will be, because it all depends on what we have to do in the short term. But I think we've just got huge scope, and we don't pull those levers that allow us to reduce the energy demand, which is a shame. BG: Alice, thank you for coming to TED and sharing this data. ABL: Thank you. (Applause)	我們的一生中都在促進氣候變遷我們的行動, 選擇和作為都將助長溫室氣體排放我認為這個想法很震撼但也可能令人感到罪惡只要一想起做過的決定想去旅行的地方多常去、如何去還有在居家和工作環境所使用的能源或者僅僅是習慣的生活模式然而我們可以翻轉這個想法既然我們已經對氣候造成如此劇烈而負面的影響我們也有機會影氣候變遷幅度也是我們得適應的氣候變遷幅度 因此, 我們可以抉擇一者, 開始正視氣候變遷大幅降低溫室氣體排放未來我們只需因應較緩和的氣候變遷反過來說, 若我們繼續無視氣候變遷這一來, 我們選擇面對的將會是以後更強烈的氣候衝擊不只這樣由於我國人均排放量高我們也代表其他人做決定而我們的選項裡並沒有不遭受氣候變遷的未來 過去20年來我們的政府協商人及政策決定者不斷會面商討氣候變化問題努力避免地球氣溫比工業革命以前上升2℃不同指標都顯示超過這個溫度將對人類和環境帶來危險後果這2℃代表危險的氣候改變 然而變遷的危險程度可能很主觀例如有些地方會發生劇烈天災如果那裡公共建設完善人民都有保險天災可能只影響正常生活使人心情低落, 損失財物或者一些人員傷亡但如果同樣天災發生在其他地方那裡基礎建設落後人們沒有保險又缺乏好的支援網絡那麼相同的氣候變遷就可能造成毀滅成千上萬人流離失所罹難者不計其數 這張圖, 左邊是石油燃料和工業的二氧化碳排放量時間軸則從工業革命前延伸到今日最令人一眼震驚的是排放量呈指數成長如果縮短時間至1950年以來1988年, 各國成立政府間氣候變化專門委員會1992年召開了里約地球高峰會數年後, 2009年各國簽署哥本哈根協議同意根據科學方法和平等原則避免氣溫升幅超過2℃接著, 2012年召開了Rio+20世界永續發展高峰會然而這些會議一路下來還有許多其他會議排放量仍持續攀升我們如果看近年的排放量走向加上對全球經濟發展方向的了解便發現, 我們更可能走上全球暖化4℃的道路而非2℃ 現在, 讓我們暫且想像全球平均升溫4℃的情況我們的地球大部分是海洋由於海洋的熱慣性比陸地高因此陸地的平均溫度實際上比較海洋高再者, 人類從未經歷過全球平均溫度我們有熱天、冷天雨天，尤其像我住曼徹斯特 現在想像你在世界上某大都會市中心如孟買, 北京, 紐約或倫敦今天是你這輩子最熱的一天太陽光毒辣直射身旁全是水泥建築和玻璃帷幕想像同樣這天溫度升高6, 8, 10或12度熱浪襲擊這是未來全球平均溫升4℃後我們所要面對的情形 這個問題伴隨著極端狀況不只有極端溫度還有超級暴風雨和其他氣候衝擊我們的公共建設並非為因應這些情形而建因此我們的公路、鐵路網設計上只能承受世界上不同地方的特殊天災衝擊以長久使用因此這將是嚴峻考驗發電廠本來就用水降溫至特定溫度以保持效能並重新發電建築物也設計在特定溫度範圍才能運作良好溫升4℃情況下這些設施都將備受挑戰公共建設不是設計來處理這些狀況 讓我們再回到溫升4℃就算沒有直接影響也有間接衝擊以糧食安全為例在某些地區受溫度上升4℃影響玉米和小麥產量可能銳減40％或減少30％這必將拖垮全球糧食安全因此溫升4℃帶來的整體衝擊將無法與全人類的生存秩序共存 再回到圖上4℃和2℃的路徑只關注2℃路徑還有道理嗎?我許多同事和科學家會說避免溫升2℃為時不晚但我想引用我對能源體系、糧食體系航空與貨運的研究我認為仍有一點機會逆轉危險的2℃氣候變遷但我們非得從統計數字才知道該怎麼做 如果你留意這圖和曲線黃圈位置凸顯出紅色4℃路徑與綠色2℃路徑快速分道揚鑣這因為累積排放量或碳預算的關係換句話說, 由於目前現場正使用燈光和投影器材二氧化碳持續進入大氣造成長時間持續用電有些氣體會在大氣中存留一世紀, 或者更久因此不斷增加溫室氣體也逐漸累積於是從中我們了解這兩條路徑首先, 曲線下的區域才是重點而非在哪一天達成目標因為問題不在於我們是否發展出驚人的先進科技好在2049年底解決能源問題及時化解危機因為在此同時排放量仍不斷增加如果我們走紅色4℃路徑走得越久就必須在之後幾年進行補救以維持等量碳預算並保持在曲線下方如此一來, 紅曲線就變得更陡峭也就是, 如果短中期內無法降低排放之後每年都得大幅減量同時, 我們也必須讓能源系統去碳化然而如果短中期內無法減排我們就得減量得更快這是個重大挑戰 另外, 這也顯示了能源政策如果你身在人均排放量高的地方代表必須降低能源需求這是因為即便全球同心協力要讓短期內新建的大型能源設施供應去碳化的能源是不可能限期內實現的所以問題不在於該選擇核能或捕獲、封存碳排或提高生物燃料產品的水平或增加風力和潮汐發電產能達成這些都得花時間由於重點在於曲線下面積我們需著重能源效率以及能源保護也就是減少能源使用如果做到了, 這代表我們可以持續供應能源負擔也將減輕只要我們確實達成降低能源消耗因為我們已不需那麼多能源建設 另一需要努力解決的問題是人類安居樂業和平等問題在很多地方生活水平極需提升但由於目前仍靠石油為能源因此只要經濟成長排放量也將增加現在, 如果全世界遵守碳預算限制代表如果有地方將增加碳排放那麼其他地方就得減少 這對富國是一大挑戰因為根據我們的研究人均排放量非常高的國家如北美, 歐洲, 澳洲現在開始每年減排10%那麼就很有機會避免2℃問題以具體脈絡來說經濟學家斯特恩曾說每年減排高於1%會造成經濟衰退和動盪這嚴重挑戰了經濟成長因為如果我們仍使用高碳排設施意味著經濟若成長碳排放也跟著成長我想引用我和安德森2011年提出的研究報告為了避免2℃溫升導致危險的氣候變化至少短期內經濟成長必須互換富國要實行撙節計畫 這很難說服人因為這建議要求改變做法不只增加變革而是改變方法完全扭轉體系有時, 這代表少做一點這適用於所有人不論你我的影響層面為何可以寫信給選區議員跟老闆聊聊或當老闆實地做跟親友談談或單純改變生活模式因為, 我們真的需要大幅改變目前, 我們選了4℃道路如果想避免2℃處境現在就要行動 謝謝大家 （掌聲） (吉薩尼)艾莉絲, 你演講提到除非富國每年減排10%現在今年開始不是2020或2025年否則我們將直入溫升4℃我好奇你對2070年減排70%的看法 (鲍爾‧拉金) 是的連避免2℃都差得遠呢我們常聽到一些模型研究, 建議該怎麼做它們大多高估世界各國可投入減排的時間他們的假定過於美化這種研究做越多由於碳排的累積短期內的成果就非常重要差異會很大假如大國, 像中國持續再發展僅僅數年那麼我們去碳的時間點又將大不同因此很難說會在何時全靠短期內我們做了什麼但目前我們只知概略也尚未著手使能源需求降低真丟臉 (吉薩尼) 謝謝你來TED分享 (鲍爾‧拉金) 謝謝 (掌聲)
