Talk	en	zh-tw
alice_rawsthorn_pirates_nurses_and_other_rebel_designers	Design is a slippery and elusive phenomenon, which has meant different things at different times. But all truly inspiring design projects have one thing in common: they began with a dream. And the bolder the dream, the greater the design feat that will be required to achieve it. And this is why the greatest designers are almost always the biggest dreamers and rebels and renegades. This has been the case throughout history, all the way back to the year 300 BC, when a 13-year-old became the king of a remote, very poor and very small Asian country. He dreamt of acquiring land, riches and power through military conquest. And his design skills — improbable though it sounds — would be essential in enabling him to do so. At the time, all weapons were made by hand to different specifications. So if an archer ran out of arrows during a battle, they wouldn't necessarily be able to fire another archer's arrows from their bow. This of course meant that they would be less effective in combat and very vulnerable, too. Ying solved this problem by insisting that all bows and arrows were designed identically, so they were interchangeable. And he did the same for daggers, axes, spears, shields and every other form of weaponry. His formidably equipped army won batter after battle, and within 15 years, his tiny kingdom had succeeded in conquering all its larger, richer, more powerful neighbors, to found the mighty Chinese Empire. Now, no one, of course, would have thought of describing Ying Zheng as a designer at the time — why would they? And yet he used design unknowingly and instinctively but with tremendous ingenuity to achieve his ends. And so did another equally improbable, accidental designer, who was also not above using violence to get what he wanted. This was Edward Teach, better known as the British pirate, Blackbeard. This was the golden age of piracy, where pirates like Teach were terrorizing the high seas. Colonial trade was flourishing, and piracy was highly profitable. And the smarter pirates like him realized that to maximize their spoils, they needed to attack their enemies so brutally that they would surrender on sight. So in other words, they could take the ships without wasting ammunition, or incurring casualties. So Edward Teach redesigned himself as Blackbeard by playing the part of a merciless brute. He wore heavy jackets and big hats to accentuate his height. He grew the bushy black beard that obscured his face. He slung braces of pistols on either shoulder. He even attached matches to the brim of his hat and set them alight, so they sizzled menacingly whenever his ship was poised to attack. And like many pirates of that era, he flew a flag that bore the macabre symbols of a human skull and a pair of crossed bones, because those motifs had signified death in so many cultures for centuries, that their meaning was instantly recognizable, even in the lawless, illiterate world of the high seas: surrender or you'll suffer. So of course, all his sensible victims surrendered on sight. Put like that, it's easy to see why Edward Teach and his fellow pirates could be seen as pioneers of modern communications design, and why their deadly symbol — (Laughter) there's more — why their deadly symbol of the skull and crossbones was a precursor of today's logos, rather like the big red letters standing behind me, but of course with a different message. (Laughter) Yet design was also used to nobler ends by an equally brilliant and equally improbable designer, the 19th-century British nurse, Florence Nightingale. Her mission was to provide decent healthcare for everyone. Nightingale was born into a rather grand, very wealthy British family, who were horrified when she volunteered to work in military hospitals during the Crimean War. Once there, she swiftly realized that more patients were dying of infections that they caught there, in the filthy, fetid wards, than they were of battle wounds. So she campaigned for cleaner, lighter, airier clinics to be designed and built. Back in Britain, she mounted another campaign, this time for civilian hospitals, and insisted that the same design principles were applied to them. The Nightingale ward, as it is called, dominated hospital design for decades to come, and elements of it are still used today. But by then, design was seen as a tool of the Industrial Age. It was formalized and professionalized, but it was restricted to specific roles and generally applied in pursuit of commercial goals rather than being used intuitively, as Florence Nightingale, Blackbeard and Ying Zheng had done. By the 20th century, this commercial ethos was so powerful, that any designers who deviated from it risked being seen as cranks or subversives. Now among them is one of my great design heroes, the brilliant László Moholy-Nagy. He was the Hungarian artist and designer whose experiments with the impact of technology on daily life were so powerful that they still influence the design of the digital images we see on our phone and computer screens. He radicalized the Bauhaus Design School in 1920s Germany, and yet some of his former colleagues shunned him when he struggled to open a new Bauhaus in Chicago years later. Moholy's ideas were as bold and incisive as ever, but his approach to design was too experimental, as was his insistence on seeing it, as he put it, as an attitude, not a profession to be in tune with the times. And sadly, the same applied to another design maverick: Richard Buckminster Fuller. He was yet another brilliant design visionary and design activist, who was completely committed to designing a sustainable society in such a forward-thinking way that he started talking about the importance of environmentalism in design in the 1920s. Now he, despite his efforts, was routinely mocked as a crank by many in the design establishment, and admittedly, some of his experiments failed, like the flying car that never got off the ground. And yet, the geodesic dome, his design formula to build an emergency shelter from scraps of wood, metal, plastic, bits of tree, old blankets, plastic sheeting — just about anything that's available at the time — is one of the greatest feats of humanitarian design, and has provided sorely needed refuge to many, many people in desperate circumstances ever since. Now, it was the courage and verve of radical designers like Bucky and Moholy that drew me to design. I began my career as a news journalist and foreign correspondent. I wrote about politics, economics and corporate affairs, and I could have chosen to specialize in any of those fields. But I picked design, because I believe it's one of the most powerful tools at our disposal to improve our quality of life. Thank you, fellow TED design buffs. (Applause) And greatly as I admire the achievements of professional designers, which have been extraordinary and immense, I also believe that design benefits hugely from the originality, the lateral thinking and the resourcefulness of its rebels and renegades. And we're living at a remarkable moment in design, because this is a time when the two camps are coming closer together. Because even very basic advances in digital technology have enabled them to operate increasingly independently, in or out of a commercial context, to pursue ever more ambitious and eclectic objectives. So in theory, basic platforms like crowdfunding, cloud computing, social media are giving greater freedom to professional designers and giving more resources for the improvisational ones, and hopefully, a more receptive response to their ideas. Now, some of my favorite examples of this are in Africa, where a new generation of designers are developing incredible Internet of Things technologies to fulfill Florence Nightingale's dream of improving healthcare in countries where more people now have access to cell phones than to clean, running water. And among them is Arthur Zang. He's a young, Cameroonian design engineer who has a adapted a tablet computer into the Cardiopad, a mobile heart-monitoring device. It can be used to monitor the hearts of patients in remote, rural areas. The data is then sent on a cellular network to well-equipped hospitals hundreds of miles away for analysis. And if any problems are spotted by the specialists there, a suitable course of treatment is recommended. And this of course saves many patients from making long, arduous, expensive and often pointless journeys to those hospitals, and makes it much, much likelier that their hearts will actually be checked. Arthur Zang started working on the Cardiopad eight years ago, in his final year at university. But he failed to persuade any conventional sources to give him investment to get the project off the ground. He posted the idea on Facebook, where a Cameroonian government official saw it and managed to secure a government grant for him. He's now developing not only the Cardiopad, but other mobile medical devices to treat different conditions. And he isn't alone, because there are many other inspiring and enterprising designers who are also pursuing extraordinary projects of their own. And I'm going to finish by looking at just a few of them. One is Peek Vision. This is a group of doctors and designers in Kenya, who've developed an Internet of Things technology of their own, as a portable eye examination kit. Then there's Gabriel Maher, who is developing a new design language to enable us to articulate the subtleties of our changing gender identities, without recourse to traditional stereotypes. All of these designers and many more are pursuing their dreams, by the making the most of their newfound freedom, with the discipline of professional designers and the resourcefulness of rebels and renegades. And we all stand to benefit. Thank you. (Applause)	「設計」是一閃即逝的靈光乍現。它在不同的時空，有不同的含義。但所有真正激勵人心的設計，都有一個共同點：它們源自夢想。越是大膽的夢想，越需要優秀的設計來成就它。這也是為什麼最了不起的設計家總是那些懷著雄心的夢想家，叛逆份子與叛徒。 縱觀歷史也是如此，可以回溯到公元前 300 年。當時一位十三歲的少年在一個遙遠、貧困的亞洲小國登基為王。他夢想用武力征服領土、財富以及權力。而他的設計本領，雖然聽起來有點不可思議，但正是助他達成目標的基礎。 在當時，所有的武器是以各不相同的規格，手工打造而成。當一個弓箭手在戰場上用盡自己所有的箭，他不見得能拿其它人的箭來發射。這讓他們在戰鬥時缺乏效率，而且脆弱。嬴政解決了這個問題。他堅持所有的弓與箭都設計得一模一樣，以利交互使用，且用相同的方式處理匕首、斧頭、長矛和盾牌，以及其它的武器裝備。他裝備精良的軍隊贏了一場又一場的戰役。十五年內，他的小王國成功征服了鄰近所有比它強大而富有的國家，並建立了大秦帝國。 在當時，沒有人會想到用「設計家」來稱呼嬴政。那是當然。然而，他自然而然地使用設計，加上極致的創造力，去達成他的目標。另一位不可多得的設計家也是如此。相同地，他並非使用暴力來達到他的目的。這是愛德華．蒂奇，著名的英國海盜「黑鬍子」。 那是海盜的黃金時代，盜賊橫行在公海上。當殖民地貿易蒸蒸日上，海盜也獲利豐厚。像是蒂奇這樣更精明的海盜，知道若要劫掠最多的贓物，他們需要殘酷而猛烈地攻擊敵人，迫使對方迅速投降。換句話說，他們可以不費彈藥地攻下船隻，不損一兵一卒。 為此愛德華．蒂奇重新打造自己成「黑鬍子」，扮演一個冷血的惡魔。他穿著厚重外套和大帽子，以突顯他的身高，並蓄起濃密的黑鬍子來掩蓋他的臉。他把手槍斜背在雙肩上。他甚至把火柴裝在帽緣，每當他的船隻準備攻擊，就點燃火柴，發出兇狠的嘶鳴。如同當時的其它海盜，他升起的旗幟上，有令人毛骨悚然的符號：是骷髏頭與一對交叉的人骨。由於數百年來這些圖案在不同的文化中都代表死亡。因此人們能在瞬間明白它們的含義，即便是在沒有法律與文字的公海上也一樣：「束手投降，以免遭於難。」而他明智的受害者皆在對峙之初就放棄扺抗。 這樣說來，很容易明白為什麼愛德華．蒂奇和他的海盜，可以被視為現代傳播設計的先行者，而他們致命的符號... (笑聲) 還有喔，他們致命的符號，這個骷髏頭的圖案，是現代商標的先驅，就像我身後的這些巨大的紅色字母，當然它們表達的訊息差很多。 (笑聲) 此外，設計也被用在高尚的一方。另一位同樣才華橫溢、難以多得的設計家，是十九世紀的英國護士佛羅倫斯．南丁格爾。她的使命是為眾人提供良好的醫療服務。南丁格爾生於一個富有的英國大家庭。她自願在克里米亞戰爭投入軍醫工作時，家人都感到非常震驚。抵達之後，她迅速意識到在骯髒惡臭的病房裡受到感染的致死人數，高於在戰鬥中遭受的創傷。因此她發起運動去設計建造更乾淨明亮、空氣流通的診所。 回到英國後，她參與了另一項運動，這次是推動平民醫院。她堅持這些醫院也要符合相同的設計與準則。這樣的「南丁格爾病房」在接下來幾十年成為醫院設計的主流。而其中的一些元素一直延用到今日。但在那之後，在工業時代，設計僅被視為一項工具，主要用在規格化與專業化。它被限制了特定功能，通常用在追求商業目標，而非出於直覺的應用，像是南丁格爾、黑鬍子，或是秦始王曾經做到的。 到了二十世紀，這個商業思潮是如此強勢，任何偏離它的設計者皆冒著被視為怪人或破壞分子的風險。 他們之中，有一位是我的偶像，那就是天才洋溢的拉士羅．摩荷里．那基。他是匈牙利的藝術家與設計師，他的創新對日用科技的衝擊是如此深遠，直至今日仍影響著我們手機和電腦螢幕上的數位影像設計。在1920年代的德國，他徹底改變了包浩斯設計學院。但數年後，當他推展芝加哥分校遇到困難時，他以前的同事卻避他唯恐不及。摩荷里的構想大膽敏銳一如以往，但他的設計方式卻太實驗性，而他堅持將此視為一種態度，而非逢迎時勢的職業。 遺憾的是，相同的事也發生在另一位不守常規的設計家理查．巴克敏斯特．富勒身上。他也是一位才華洋溢的設計夢想家與運動人士。他全心投入去設計一個永續發展的社會，以如此前瞻性的思維方式，在1920年代，他便開始提倡設計中環境保護的重要性任憑他的貢獻與努力，如今在設計界，他仍常常被視為怪胎。無可否認地，他的某些實驗失敗了，像是從未起飛的飛行車。然而，他所設計的球形穹頂，利用當地取材搭建的緊急庇護所，使用零碎的木頭、金屬、塑膠，或樹木，毛毯、塑膠帆布建造，幾乎當時能用的材料他都使用，是數一數二的人道主義設計。它提供的急需避難所，在那之後救助了許許多多遭遇困境的人。 是巴克與摩荷里這些顛覆性的設計家，他們大膽無畏的氣魄把我帶進設計的領域。我的第一份工作是新聞記者和國外特派員。我報導政治，經濟和商業活動。我可以選擇以上任何一項主題來做，但我選擇了設計，因為我相信這是我們改善人們生活的最有力工具之一。 謝謝你們，各位 TED 設計界同僚。 (掌聲) 我欽佩這些專業設計師非凡且無限的成就。同時我也相信，設計的效益更來自於足智多謀、特立獨行的叛逆份子他們的創意以及橫向思維。而我們正生活在這個非凡的設計時代。因為在此前，這兩個陣營從未如此接近過。也因為在數位科技中，即使是一個簡單的進步，也能讓設計者更獨立地運作，無論是否從事商業活動，他們可追求更野心勃勃以及兼容並蓄的目標。 理論上，如群聚集資、雲端計算與社交媒體這些基本平台正給於專業設計師更多的自由，而那些即興的創作家也能得到更多資源，或者可能，他們的概念更容易得到回應。 有些我最喜愛的例子發生在非洲。在那裡，一些新生代的設計師正打造驚人的物聯網科技，去完成南丁格爾改善醫療保健的夢想。在這些國家，取得行動電話比乾淨的飲水還要容易。 其中一位設計師是亞瑟．贊。他是喀麥隆籍的年輕設計工程師。他將平版電腦改造成 Cardiopad，一個可遠端監測心臟的儀器。它可用來檢測在偏鄉地區的病患。數據資料會透過電信網路送往遠在百哩之外，設備精良的醫院加以分析。如果專家發現任何的問題，他們會建議適合的療程。這自然節省了病患許多的時間，免於長途跋涉、秏費金錢，且經常徒勞無功地往返醫院，讓這些病患更可能地得到真正的檢測。 亞瑟．贊八年前開始 Cardiopad 的工作，當時是他大學的最後一年。但他沒能在常規的管道取得資源，支持他發展這個計劃。他把這個想法發佈在 Facebook 上，有位喀麥隆政府的官員看到了這個訊息，便安排政府的補助金給他。如今他不只打造了 Cardiopad，也開發了其它行動醫療的裝置來治療不同的症狀。 不只他，世上還有許多其它鼓舞人心且進取的設計家，正進行各自非凡的計劃。在結束前，我要介紹其中幾位，一個是 Peek Vision，他們是肯亞的一群醫生及設計師，自行開發了一套可攜式的眼睛檢查模組。然後是加百列．馬亞，他正設計一種新的表達方式，可讓我們更精確描述變動中了性別認同，擺脫對刻版印象的依賴。 這些設計師以及其它許多人正追逐他們的夢想。讓他們的新發明自由發展，輔以專業設計師的紀律，與那些叛逆者的足智多謀，我們都將由此受益。 謝謝你們。 (鼓掌)
