Talk	en	zh-tw
alice_dreger_is_anatomy_destiny	"I want you to imagine two couples in the middle of 1979 on the exact same day, at the exact same moment, each conceiving a baby, OK? So two couples each conceiving one baby. Now I don't want you to spend too much time imagining the conception, because if you do, you're not going to listen to me, so just imagine that for a moment. And in this scenario, I want to imagine that, in one case, the sperm is carrying a Y chromosome, meeting that X chromosome of the egg. And in the other case, the sperm is carrying an X chromosome, meeting the X chromosome of the egg. Both are viable; both take off. We'll come back to these people later. So I wear two hats in most of what I do. As the one hat, I do history of anatomy. I'm a historian by training, and what I study in that case is the way that people have dealt with anatomy — meaning human bodies, animal bodies — how they dealt with bodily fluids, concepts of bodies; how have they thought about bodies. The other hat that I've worn in my work is as an activist, as a patient advocate — or, as I sometimes say, as an impatient advocate — for people who are patients of doctors. In that case, what I've worked with is people who have body types that challenge social norms. So some of what I've worked on, for example, is people who are conjoined twins — two people within one body. Some of what I've worked on is people who have dwarfism — so people who are much shorter than typical. And a lot of what I've worked on is people who have atypical sex — so people who don't have the standard male or the standard female body types. And as a general term, we can use the term ""intersex"" for this. Intersex comes in a lot of different forms. I'll just give you a few examples of the types of ways you can have sex that isn't standard for male or female. So in one instance, you can have somebody who has an XY chromosomal basis, and that SRY gene on the Y chromosome tells the proto-gonads, which we all have in the fetal life, to become testes. So in the fetal life, those testes are pumping out testosterone. But because this individual lacks receptors to hear that testosterone, the body doesn't react to the testosterone. And this is a syndrome called androgen insensitivity syndrome. So lots of levels of testosterone, but no reaction to it. As a consequence, the body develops more along the female typical path. When the child is born, she looks like a girl. She is a girl, she is raised as a girl. And it's often not until she hits puberty and she's growing and developing breasts, but she's not getting her period, that somebody figures out something's up here. And they do some tests and figure out that, instead of having ovaries inside and a uterus, she has testes inside, and she has a Y chromosome. Now what's important to understand is you may think of this person as really being male, but they're really not. Females, like males, have in our bodies something called the adrenal glands. They're in the back of our body. And the adrenal glands make androgens, which are a masculinizing hormone. Most females like me — I believe myself to be a typical female — I don't actually know my chromosomal make-up, but I think I'm probably typical — most females like me are actually androgen-sensitive. We're making androgen, and we're responding to androgens. The consequence is that somebody like me has actually had a brain exposed to more androgens than the woman born with testes who has androgen insensitivity syndrome. So sex is really complicated — it's not just that intersex people are in the middle of all the sex spectrum — in some ways, they can be all over the place. Another example: a few years ago I got a call from a man who was 19 years old, who was born a boy, raised a boy, had a girlfriend, had sex with his girlfriend, had a life as a guy, and had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus inside. What he had was an extreme form of a condition called congenital adrenal hyperplasia. He had XX chromosomes, and in the womb, his adrenal glands were in such high gear that it created, essentially, a masculine hormonal environment. And as a consequence, his genitals were masculinized, his brain was subject to the more typical masculine component of hormones. And he was born looking like a boy — nobody suspected anything. And it was only when he had reached the age of 19 that he began to have enough medical problems from menstruating internally, that doctors figured out that, in fact, he was female, internally. OK, so just one more quick example of a way you can have intersex. Some people who have XX chromosomes develop what are called ovotestis, which is when you have ovarian tissue with testicular tissue wrapped around it. And we're not exactly sure why that happens. So sex can come in lots of different varieties. The reason that children with these kinds of bodies — whether it's dwarfism, or it's conjoined twinning, or it's an intersex type — are often ""normalized"" by surgeons is not because it actually leaves them better off in terms of physical health. In many cases, people are actually perfectly healthy. The reason they're often subject to various kinds of surgeries is because they threaten our social categories. Our system has been based typically on the idea that a particular kind of anatomy comes with a particular identity. So we have the concept that what it means to be a woman is to have a female identity; what it means to be a black person is, allegedly, to have an African anatomy in terms of your history. And so we have this terribly simplistic idea. And when we're faced with a body that actually presents us something quite different, it startles us in terms of those categorizations. So we have a lot of very romantic ideas in our culture about individualism. And our nation's really founded on a very romantic concept of individualism. You can imagine how startling then it is when you have children who are born who are two people inside of one body. Where I ran into the most heat from this most recently was last year when South African runner, Caster Semenya, had her sex called into question at the International Games in Berlin. I had a lot of journalists calling me, asking me, ""Which is the test they're going to run that will tell us whether or not Caster Semenya is male or female?"" And I had to explain to the journalists there isn't such a test. In fact, we now know that sex is complicated enough that we have to admit: Nature doesn't draw the line for us between male and female, or between male and intersex and female and intersex; we actually draw that line on nature. So what we have is a sort of situation where the farther our science goes, the more we have to admit to ourselves that these categories that we thought of as stable anatomical categories, that mapped very simply to stable identity categories are a lot more fuzzy than we thought. And it's not just in terms of sex. It's also in terms of race, which turns out to be vastly more complicated than our terminology has allowed. As we look, we get into all sorts of uncomfortable areas. We look, for example, about the fact that we share at least 95 percent of our DNA with chimpanzees. What are we to make of the fact that we differ from them only, really, by a few nucleotides? And as we get farther and farther with our science, we get more and more into a discomforted zone, where we have to acknowledge that the simplistic categories we've had are probably overly simplistic. So we're seeing this in all sorts of places in human life. One of the places we're seeing it, for example, in our culture, in the United States today, is battles over the beginning of life and the end of life. We have difficult conversations about at what point we decide a body becomes a human, such that it has a different right than a fetal life. We have very difficult conversations nowadays — probably not out in the open as much as within medicine — about the question of when somebody's dead. In the past, our ancestors never had to struggle so much with this question of when somebody was dead. At most, they'd stick a feather on somebody's nose, and if it twitched, they didn't bury them yet. If it stopped twitching, you bury them. But today, we have a situation where we want to take vital organs out of beings and give them to other beings. And as a consequence, we have to struggle with this really difficult question about who's dead, and this leads us to a really difficult situation where we don't have such simple categories as we've had before. Now you might think that all this breaking-down of categories would make somebody like me really happy. I'm a political progressive, I defend people with unusual bodies, but I have to admit to you that it makes me nervous. Understanding that these categories are really much more unstable than we thought makes me tense. It makes me tense from the point of view of thinking about democracy. So in order to tell you about that tension, I have to first admit to you a huge fan of the Founding Fathers. I know they were racists, I know they were sexist, but they were great. I mean, they were so brave and so bold and so radical in what they did, that I find myself watching that cheesy musical ""1776"" every few years, and it's not because of the music, which is totally forgettable. It's because of what happened in 1776 with the Founding Fathers. The Founding Fathers were, for my point of view, the original anatomical activists, and this is why. What they rejected was an anatomical concept and replaced it with another one that was radical and beautiful and held us for 200 years. So as you all recall, what our Founding Fathers were rejecting was a concept of monarchy, and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy. The monarchs of the old world didn't have a concept of DNA, but they did have a concept of birthright. They had a concept of blue blood. They had the idea that the people who would be in political power should be in political power because of the blood being passed down from grandfather to father to son and so forth. The Founding Fathers rejected that idea, and they replaced it with a new anatomical concept, and that concept was ""all men are created equal."" They leveled that playing field and decided the anatomy that mattered was the commonality of anatomy, not the difference in anatomy, and that was a really radical thing to do. Now they were doing it in part because they were part of an Enlightenment system where two things were growing up together. And that was democracy growing up, but it was also science growing up at the same time. And it's really clear, if you look at the history of the Founding Fathers, a lot of them were very interested in science, and they were interested in the concept of a naturalistic world. They were moving away from supernatural explanations, and they were rejecting things like a supernatural concept of power, where it transmitted because of a very vague concept of birthright. They were moving towards a naturalistic concept. And if you look, for example, in the Declaration of Independence, they talk about nature and nature's God. They don't talk about God and God's nature. They're talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are. So as part of that, they were coming to us with a concept that was about anatomical commonality. And in doing so, they were really setting up in a beautiful way the Civil Rights Movement of the future. They didn't think of it that way, but they did it for us, and it was great. So what happened years afterwards? What happened was women, for example, who wanted the right to vote, took the Founding Fathers' concept of anatomical commonality being more important than anatomical difference and said, ""The fact that we have a uterus and ovaries is not significant enough in terms of a difference to mean that we shouldn't have the right to vote, the right to full citizenship, the right to own property, etc."" And women successfully argued that. Next came the successful Civil Rights Movement, where we found people like Sojourner Truth talking about, ""Ain't I a woman?"" We find men on the marching lines of the Civil Rights Movement saying, ""I am a man."" Again, people of color appealing to a commonality of anatomy over a difference of anatomy, again, successfully. We see the same thing with the disability rights movement. The problem is, of course, that, as we begin to look at all that commonality, we have to begin to question why we maintain certain divisions. Mind you, I want to maintain some divisions, anatomically, in our culture. For example, I don't want to give a fish the same rights as a human. I don't want to say we give up entirely on anatomy. I don't want to say a five-year-old should be allowed to consent to sex or consent to marry. So there are some anatomical divisions that make sense to me and that I think we should retain. But the challenge is trying to figure out which ones they are and why do we retain them, and do they have meaning. So let's go back to those two beings conceived at the beginning of this talk. We have two beings, both conceived in the middle of 1979 on the exact same day. Let's imagine one of them, Mary, is born three months prematurely, so she's born on June 1, 1980. Henry, by contrast, is born at term, so he's born on March 1, 1980. Simply by virtue of the fact that Mary was born prematurely three months, she comes into all sorts of rights three months earlier than Henry does — the right to consent to sex, the right to vote, the right to drink. Henry has to wait for all of that, not because he's actually any different in age, biologically, except in terms of when he was born. We find other kinds of weirdness in terms of what their rights are. Henry, by virtue of being assumed to be male — although I haven't told you that he's the XY one — by virtue of being assumed to be male is now liable to be drafted, which Mary does not need to worry about. Mary, meanwhile, cannot in all the states have the same right that Henry has in all the states, namely, the right to marry. Henry can marry, in every state, a woman, but Mary can only marry today in a few states, a woman. So we have these anatomical categories that persist, that are in many ways problematic and questionable. And the question to me becomes: What do we do, as our science gets to be so good in looking at anatomy, that we reach the point where we have to admit that a democracy that's been based on anatomy might start falling apart? I don't want to give up the science, but at the same time, it feels sometimes like the science is coming out from under us. So where do we go? It seems like what happens in our culture is a sort of pragmatic attitude: ""We have to draw the line somewhere, so we will draw the line somewhere."" But a lot of people get stuck in a very strange position. So for example, Texas has at one point decided that what it means to marry a man is to mean that you don't have a Y chromosome, and what it means to marry a woman means you have a Y chromosome. In practice they don't test people for their chromosomes. But this is also very bizarre, because of the story I told you at the beginning about androgen insensitivity syndrome. If we look at one of the Founding Fathers of modern democracy, Dr. Martin Luther King, he offers us something of a solution in his ""I have a dream"" speech. He says we should judge people ""based not on the color of their skin, but on the content of their character,"" moving beyond anatomy. And I want to say, ""Yeah, that sounds like a really good idea."" But in practice, how do you do it? How do you judge people based on the content of character? I also want to point out that I'm not sure that is how we should distribute rights in terms of humans, because, I have to admit, that there are some golden retrievers I know that are probably more deserving of social services than some humans I know. I also want to say there are probably also some yellow Labradors that I know that are more capable of informed, intelligent, mature decisions about sexual relations than some 40-year-olds that I know. So how do we operationalize the question of content of character? It turns out to be really difficult. And part of me also wonders, what if content of character turns out to be something that's scannable in the future — able to be seen with an fMRI? Do we really want to go there? I'm not sure where we go. What I do know is that it seems to be really important to think about the idea of the United States being in the lead of thinking about this issue of democracy. We've done a really good job struggling with democracy, and I think we would do a good job in the future. We don't have a situation that Iran has, for example, where a man who's sexually attracted to other men is liable to be murdered, unless he's willing to submit to a sex change, in which case he's allowed to live. We don't have that kind of situation. I'm glad to say we don't have the kind of situation with — a surgeon I talked to a few years ago who had brought over a set of conjoined twins in order to separate them, partly to make a name for himself. But when I was on the phone with him, asking why he'll do this surgery — this was a very high-risk surgery — his answer was that, in this other nation, these children were going to be treated very badly, and so he had to do this. My response to him was, ""Well, have you considered political asylum instead of a separation surgery?"" The United States has offered tremendous possibility for allowing people to be the way they are, without having them have to be changed for the sake of the state. So I think we have to be in the lead. Well, just to close, I want to suggest to you that I've been talking a lot about the Fathers. And I want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like, or might have looked like, if we had more involved the mothers. And I want to say something a little bit radical for a feminist, and that is that I think that there may be different kinds of insights that can come from different kinds of anatomies, particularly when we have people thinking in groups. For years, because I've been interested in intersex, I've also been interested in sex-difference research. And one of the things that I've been interested in is looking at the differences between males and females in terms of the way they think and operate in the world. And what we know from cross-cultural studies is that females, on average — not everyone, but on average — are more inclined to be very attentive to complex social relations and to taking care of people who are, basically, vulnerable within the group. And so if we think about that, we have an interesting situation in hands. Years ago, when I was in graduate school, one of my graduate advisors who knew I was interested in feminism — I considered myself a feminist, as I still do, asked a really strange question. He said, ""Tell me what's feminine about feminism."" And I thought, ""Well, that's the dumbest question I've ever heard. Feminism is all about undoing stereotypes about gender, so there's nothing feminine about feminism."" But the more I thought about his question, the more I thought there might be something feminine about feminism. That is to say, there might be something, on average, different about female brains from male brains that makes us more attentive to deeply complex social relationships, and more attentive to taking care of the vulnerable. So whereas the Fathers were extremely attentive to figuring out how to protect individuals from the state, it's possible that if we injected more mothers into this concept, what we would have is more of a concept of not just how to protect, but how to care for each other. And maybe that's where we need to go in the future, when we take democracy beyond anatomy, is to think less about the individual body in terms of the identity, and think more about those relationships. So that as we the people try to create a more perfect union, we're thinking about what we do for each other. Thank you. (Applause)"	我希望大家設想一下， 兩對夫婦在1979年的年中在相同的一天，相同的時刻每對懷上了一個孩子 — 好。那麼兩對夫婦各自都都懷上了一個孩子但我不希望大家花太多時間去想像懷孕的進程,因為如果你花太多時間去想它,你就不會聽我說下去。所以稍微想一下就好了。那麼在這種情況下,我來設想一下，一種情況是攜帶者Y染色體的精子遇到攜帶者X染色體的卵子另一種情況攜帶者X染色體的精子,遇到攜帶者X染色體的卵子。兩種情況都可能我們之後再來看這兩對夫婦。 在我所從事的領域我擔任兩個角色。一個角色是,我做解剖身體結構學歷史研究。我是個史學工作者,我所研究的是人類對於身體結構的處理方法—即人類軀體，動物軀體—他們如何處理非常態的軀體，概念上的軀體;他們是如何認識軀體。另一個角色是一名活動家作為一個為病人辯護人的角色—或者說，像我有時候說的，是一個很急切的宣導者的角色—為了那些醫生的病人們。那樣的話，在我工作中所接觸到的是一些挑戰著社會規範的人。因此，我接觸到的，例如像連體嬰兒這樣的人,兩個人共用一個身體。還有一些是侏儒症患者,他們比一般人要矮小的多。另外，許多我接觸的人的性別與眾不同 —即他們沒有很標準的男性特徵或者女性特的身體類型。總的來說，這個症狀可以被叫做雙性人。 雙性可以有多種的形式。我來舉幾個例子來說明你可以具有既不是標準的男性特徵也不是標準的女性特徵的類型。例子之一,一個人可以擁有XY染色體,並且，在Y染色體上的SRY基因(雄性性別決定基因)刺激我們在胎兒時期都有的原始性腺變成睾丸。因此在胎兒時期，睾丸放出睾丸激素。但是這個個體缺少受體來接收睾丸激素,身體不能對睾丸激素做出反應。這是一種叫做雄激素不敏感（睾丸女性化）綜合征。所以，雄激素的數量很大，但是不能引起反應。因此，身體就會朝著女性化的趨勢發展。當嬰兒誕生時，她看起來像個女孩兒。她就是女孩兒，並且被當作小姑娘來撫養。大多數情況，直到青春期她的胸部開始發育的時候,她卻沒有經期,於是被開始發現有一些不妥。於是他們檢查發現她並沒有發育卵巢和子宮,實際上，在她身體內有睾丸，並且她攜帶著Y染色體。 現在，有一個重要問題需要說明的是大家一定認為這個人實際上是個男孩兒,但也並非如此。女孩, 像男孩同樣,在我們身體內有一個器官叫做腎上腺。它在我們身體的後部。負責分泌雄性激素,即一種雄性荷爾蒙。像我一樣的大多數女性—我相信我自己是個典型的女性—我其實不太清楚我的染色體的組成但是我想我應該是可以代表典型性的 —大多數像我一樣的女性實際上是雄激素敏感。我們分泌雄性激素，並且對它有反應。結果是，那些像我一樣的人,大腦暴露在更多的雄性激素下而不是出生時就有睾丸即雄性激素不敏感綜合征。所以說性別是個非常複雜的東西；不僅僅是那些雙性的人即處在兩性之間的人 —在某些方面，這種人到處都是。 還有一個例子:幾年前，我接到一個19﻿歲男子打來的電話,他生下來是個男孩，也被當作男孩來養,後來有了女朋友，也和女友發生了性關係,一直過著男孩的生活,但最近，他發現自己體內有卵巢和子宮。他所患的是一種極端形式的叫做先天性腎上腺皮質增生症。他攜帶XX染色體並且在子宮內的時候,他的腎上腺很活躍從而形成了一個男性荷爾蒙的環境。結果就是，他發育了男性生殖器官,他的大腦接受了更多的典型的男性荷爾蒙的成分。因此他生下來看起來像個男孩兒—根本沒人懷疑。只有當他長到19歲的時候當他開始遇到生理問題的時候也就是說從體內出現月經起,醫生指出，實際上他的內部是女性。 好，我們再來快看一個例子,可能具有兩性特徵的例子。一些有XX染色體的人會發育一種叫做卵睾的器官,也就是當卵巢組織被睾丸組織包裹起來的一種器官。我們還不能確定它的成因。 所以說性別可以是很多種形式。孩子們擁有這些身體特徵的—不論是侏儒症，或者連體嬰兒或者是雙性型的—經常被外科醫生要求變得和正常人一樣的原因實際上不是因為那樣對身體健康比較好。因為很多情況下，他們的身體其實都很健康。他們接受各種外科手術的原因是因為他們恐懼我們社會上對人的分類。或者說社會體系已經有一個典型的認識也就是一個有特殊身體結構的人，伴隨著特殊的身份。因此，我們的概念就是最為一個女人就必須有女性的特性;以此類推，一個黑人就得具有在你的履歷中非洲人的身體結構特徵。因此我們就有了這種過於簡單而糟糕的認識。當我們面對一個某些方面是完全與眾不同的身體的時候,那些把他們歸為另類的想法讓我們感到吃驚。 應此我們的文化中有很多關於個人主義不切實際的想法。並且我們國家建立在一個非常不實際的個人主義的概念上。好，你可以想像這會是多麼令人震驚,倘若你有兩個孩子出生的時候是兩個身體生在一個身體中。我最近一次遇到這種情況是去年的時候，非洲田徑運動員，卡斯特爾·塞門亞,在柏林國際比賽中被質疑性別問題。許多記者給我打電話，問我:「他們會用哪種檢測方法來向大家證明卡斯特爾·塞門亞是男還是女？」於是我不得不跟他們解釋說，根本沒有檢測的方法。 事實上，我們現在已經瞭解性別是非常複雜的,我們不得不承認大自然根本就沒有一個明確的分界線來區分男性或女性,或者男性和雙性以及女性和雙性;這條分界線實際上是我們自己畫的。因此我們現在的情況是科學越發展我們越要對我們本身承認這些性別的分類形式,也就是我們認為很理所當然的身體結構學上的分類即過於簡單把人分成了不同的性別群體分類實際情況要比我們想像的模糊的多。並且這不僅僅是關於性別的問題。也同樣是關於種族的問題,這個複雜程度遠不是我們的學術語言所能形容的。 如我們所見，我們涉及各種各樣艱難的領域。我們來看一個例子，現實情況是我們用95%的人類的DNA與大猩猩進行對比。我們該如何領受事實上人類和大猩猩的DNA只是在一些核苷酸上有所不同?科技越是發展,我們越會涉及到讓人苦惱的領域,那些我們現在必須認識到的曾經過於簡單化的生物分類領域。 正因如此，我們正在審視著人類生活中的各個領域我們看到其中一個領域，舉個例子,當今美國的文化領域,激烈爭辯著生命的起源和終結。我們有一個艱難的討論關於我們從什麼時候一個軀體成為了一個人,從而有了不同於胎兒的權利。我們當今有一個非常困難的爭論—也許在外部不如在醫學界內爭論的激烈—是關於何時認定為人死亡的疑問。過去，人死的時候,我們的祖先從來不會過多的糾結於此。最多也就是把一個羽毛粘在人的鼻子下,如果羽毛動了，旁人就不會把他們埋掉。如果羽毛不動，就會埋了他們。但是如今的情況都是我們希望把死者的器官移植到其他人的身體上。結果就是我們開始糾結在上面所提到的難題中關於到底是誰死了沒有。這導致我們進入一個很困難的情況,這個情況不適用之前過於簡單的分類。 現在你也許會想，所有的這些正在崩潰的分類也許會讓像我這樣的人感到高興。我是一個在政治觀點上不斷進步的人，我維護那些身體異于常人的人,但是我必須承認，這種改變讓我感到不安。知道這個群體生活的不穩定程度要遠遠高過我們的想像令我感到緊張。我的緊張是來自於民主的觀點。所以，為了告訴大家這種緊張的程度,我首先要承認，我是開國元勳的忠實擁躉。我知道他們是種族主義者，他們是男性至上主義者,然而他們還是非常偉大。我的意思是，他們是如此勇敢、無畏並且積極從事他們的事業我自己每隔幾年就要重新去欣賞音樂劇“1776”（美國建國史的音樂劇）,並不是因為他的音樂，音樂是完全可以被忽略的。是因為1776年圍繞著建國者們發生的事情。 建國者們，我認為他們是最早的結構學活動家,這也是我愛他們的原因。他們反對的是一個結構學的概念並且用另一個取而代之這個基本美好的概念保持了200年。大家回憶一下,我們的建國者們反對的是一個君主制度的概念。並且這個君主制是基於過於簡單化的結構學概念上的。舊體制下的帝王們沒有DNA的概念,但是他們遵從的是「出身」的理念。他們有貴族的概念。他們認為，身在政治權力下的人就應該掌握權力是因為貴族血統要從祖父到父親到兒子一代代傳承。建國者們反對這種觀點,他們用一種新的結構上的概念取而代之,那種概念就是人人平等。他們消除了等級觀念並且確定新的結構特點是公民平等的結構,而不是出身的貴賤。在當時那確實是一個很激進的改革。 某種程度上，這種改革現在仍然在進行因為他們是啟蒙運動系統的一部分,兩件事情是共同發展的。民主制度在當時正在形成,但同時科技也在發展。非常明顯的是，如果你注意一下建國者的歷史,他們當中許多人都對科學很感興趣,並且他們都對自然主義世界這個概念很感興趣。他們摒棄超自然的說法,他們排斥那些超自然力量的事情,它被傳播是基於非常模糊的身世的理念。 他們宣導自然主義的概念。如果你觀察會發現，例如,在獨立宣言中,他們提及到自然和自然之神。他們沒有提到上帝和上帝的自然。他們提到自然的力量來解釋我們是誰。因此作為其中的一部分,他們為我們帶來一個概念,那就是人人生來平等。為此,他們確實為將來的民權運動規劃了一個很美好的道路。他們想不到將來會怎樣，但是他們為我們奠定了基礎，這是非常偉大的。 那麼數年後發生了什麼呢？例如在女性身上都發生了什麼,她們渴望投票的權利,按照建國者的概念人人平等要遠重要於人的出身,她們說：「我們有子宮和卵巢是事實這些不同完全不足以意味著我們沒有投票權,沒有充分的公民權利,沒有私人財產權,等等。」女性的主張獲得了成效。接下來便是成功的民權運動,運動中出現了像索傑納·特露絲這樣的人,她的名言:「我就不是女人嗎？」我們知道男人曾經在民權運動的發展路線上有句名言「我是個男人」。此外，有色人群呼籲人人平等而不應種族歧視,再者，我們看到同樣的成功案例發生在傷殘人士的權利運動中。 問題是，當然,當我們開始去審視所有的公民,我們不得不開始質疑為什麼我們去維護一個固定的界限。現在，需要提醒大家的是，我希望在我們的文化範圍被內去保持一些身體結構上的界限。舉個例子，我不希望給予魚和人類一樣的權利。我不希望我們放棄一切在身體結構學上的區分界限。我不希望，一個五歲的孩子可以被允許有性行為或者說允許結婚。所以說，有一些在身體結構學上的界限對我們來說是有意義的，我想那些應該被保留。但是，艱巨的任務是試著去找出哪些是應該保留,為什麼我們要保留它們，它們有什麼意義。 所以，讓我們回到剛才說到的那兩人就是演講一開始所虛構的那兩個人。我們有兩對夫婦都在1979年年中的同一天懷孕了。讓我們設想一下，瑪麗,提前三個月出生了,因此她出生於1980年6月1日。亨利，相反的，足月出生,他出生於1980年3月1日。僅僅是由於瑪麗早出生了三個月這個事實從而她獲得各種權利的時間要比亨利早三個月—允許有性行為的權利,選舉的權利，喝酒的權利。亨利就不得不等待他的生理學年齡沒有任何不同只是因為他出生的時間不同。 我們還發現其他一些離奇的權利問題。亨利，由於被假定為男性—儘管我沒有告訴過大家他是XY型染色體—由於被假定為男性所以現在要應徵入伍,瑪麗就不需要去擔心這些。與此同時，瑪麗不能在所有的州像亨利一樣享受同樣權利,也就是，結婚的權利。亨利可以在任何一個州跟另一名女子結婚,但是瑪麗如今只能在少數幾個州娶一位女性。 因此我們所堅持的一些結構上的生物分類在很多方面是有問題並且需要質疑的。對我來說，問題就變成了：我們應該做什麼,當我們的科學在身體結構學上如此先進的時候,我們已經達到一點是我們不得不去承認的,那就是基於人本身不同的民主也許正在崩潰？我不想對科學失去希望,但是同時，有的時候隱約覺得科學的發展是受到我們影響的。因此我們將走向何方？看起來我們將來發生的事情會帶著一種務實的態度：「好，我必須在某處畫一條界限，那麼我就在那畫一條界限。」但是很多人會因此陷在一個非常尷尬的位置。 舉個例子,德克薩斯州有一個決定嫁給一個男人意味著你沒有Y染色體,同時如果你娶一個女人意味著你有Y染色體。現實中，他們實際上不會去檢測染色體。但是這也非常奇怪,因為我一開始告訴了大家那個關於雄激素不敏感綜合征的故事 如有我們看一下現代民主制度的奠基人之一,馬丁·路德·金 博士,在他的的演講中，為我們提供了一個解決方法。他認為我們「不應該根據一個人的膚色,而是應該根據他的品格」去評判一個人,摒棄人體結構差異。我想說:「是的，那聽起來確實是個好方法。」但實際操作中，你怎麼去做？你如何根據他的品德去評判人們？我還想指出我不太確定我們應該如何分配人類的權利,因為，我不得不承認，有些黃金獵犬比起我知道的一些人似乎更應該得到社會的幫助人們我還想說，我知道有些拉布拉多犬似乎比有些40歲左右的人在性關係問題上更慎重，更聰明，更能作出成熟的決定。 因此我們如何去衡量品德的問題？結果證明是非常困難的。我還想知道,如果品德的好壞在未來可以被某個東西衡量—也許可以用核磁共振成像看見？我們真的願意走到那一步嗎？我不確定我們將走向何方。 我知道的是應該思考一下美國所引領的民主存在的問題看起來是非常重要的。我們在爭取民主的問題上已經做得非常好了,我認為今後同樣會做的更好。我們情況和伊朗不同，比如,一個男人對另一個男人在性上吸引是可以被謀殺的,除非他願意改變自己的性取向,那麼他將可以活下來。 我們沒有那樣的情況。我非常高興的說我們沒有那樣的情況—對一位外科醫生說，那是在數年之前他帶來一個連體嬰兒希望可以幫助他們分解，某種程度上也想讓自己成名。但是當我跟他通電話時,問他為什麼希望做這個手術—因為這是個危險性很高的手術—他答道，在其他國家這樣的孩子將會被殘忍的對待，因此他必須要幫助他們這麼做。我對他的回答是，「嗯，你為他們考慮過政治庇護而不是進行手術嗎？」美國為像他這樣的人選擇這條路提供了很大的可能,從而不用為了他們的國家改變自己的身體。因此我認為我們應該要引領這種思想。 好，說到這裡，我想提醒大家我已經談論了很多前人的事情。我還想考慮一下民主會是的什麼樣子，或者是已經是什麼樣子的可能性,如果我麼可以讓更多的母親參與進來。我還想說一些關於女權主義者激進的話,那就是我認為不同的人也許可以帶來不同的的觀察視角,特別是當我們習慣於群體性思維的時候。我已經對雙性人感興趣很多年了,也對性別差異進行了多年的研究。並且我十分感興趣的事情之一是去觀察世界範圍內男性與女性之間在思考問題和解決問題上的差別。我們從跨文化研究中得知女性，平均的看—當然不是每個人，而是平均的看更傾向於留意複雜的社會關係同時更加關心、同情人群中相對較脆弱的人。那麼如果我們這麼想,我們會發現一個有趣的情況。 數年前，當我讀研究生的時候,我的一位指導教授知道我對女權運動很感興趣—我自認是女權主義者，當然現在一直是—他問了我一個很怪的問題他說：「告訴我什麼是女性的女權主義。」我想:「哼! 這是我聽過最愚蠢的的問題。女權主義是所有消除陳腐統稱性別觀念的一切活動，因此，女權主義不存有女性的。」但是，進一步解讀這個問題，我想的更多的是，女權主義也許存有著一些女性的。也就是說，也許有一些，總括來說,女性的思維不同於男性的部分使得我們對於複雜的社會關係更加富有警惕性,並且更加注意關心那些脆弱的人。 但是前人們細心的指出如何保護個人不受國家的影響,如果我們在這個概念中注入如更多的母性是可能的,我們將擁有要遠多於一個概念,不僅僅是如何保護,而是如何照顧彼此。也許這就是我們未來要走的路,當我們拋開人種的分別來講民主—也就是較少考慮到人的個體,關於人的身份特性，而是更多考慮人們之間的關係。因此，當人們試圖創造一個更加美好的聯合體的時候,我們需要考慮的是我們為他人都做過了什麼。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
