Talk	en	zh-tw
alix_generous_how_i_learned_to_communicate_my_inner_life_with_asperger_s	"Today, I want to talk to you about dreams. I have been a lucid dreamer my whole life, and it's cooler than in the movies. (Laughter) Beyond flying, breathing fire, and making hot men spontaneously appear ... (Laughter) I can do things like read and write music. Fun fact is that I wrote my personal statement to college in a dream. And I did accepted. So, yeah. I am a very visual thinker. I think in pictures, not words. To me, words are more like instincts and language. There are many people like me; Nikola Tesla, for example, who could visualize, design, test, and troubleshoot everything — all of his inventions — in his mind, accurately. Language is kind of exclusive to our species, anyway. I am a bit more primitive, like a beta version of Google Translate. (Laughter) My brain has the ability to hyper-focus on things that interest me. For example, once I had an affair with calculus that lasted longer than some celebrity marriages. (Laughter) There are some other unusual things about me. You may have noticed that I don't have much inflection in my voice. That's why people often confuse me with a GPS. (Laughter) This can make basic communication a challenge, unless you need directions. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) A few years ago, when I started doing presentations, I went to get head shots done for the first time. The photographer told me to look flirty. (Laughter) And I had no idea what she was talking about. (Laughter) She said, ""Do that thing, you know, with your eyes, when you're flirting with guys."" ""What thing?"" I asked. ""You know, squint."" And so I tried, really. It looked something like this. (Laughter) I looked like I was searching for Waldo. (Laughter) There's a reason for this, as there is a reason that Waldo is hiding. (Laughter) I have Asperger's, a high-functioning form of autism that impairs the basic social skills one is expected to display. It's made life difficult in many ways, and growing up, I struggled to fit in socially. My friends would tell jokes, but I didn't understand them. My personal heroes were George Carlin and Stephen Colbert — and they taught me humor. My personality switched from being shy and awkward to being defiant and cursing out a storm. Needless to say, I did not have many friends. I was also hypersensitive to texture. The feel of water on my skin was like pins and needles, and so for years, I refused to shower. I can assure you that my hygiene routine is up to standards now, though. (Laughter) I had to do a lot to get here, and my parents — things kind of got out of control when I was sexually assaulted by a peer, and on top of everything, it made a difficult situation worse. And I had to travel 2,000 miles across the country to get treatment, but within days of them prescribing a new medication, my life turned into an episode of the Walking Dead. I became paranoid, and began to hallucinate that rotting corpses were coming towards me. My family finally rescued me, but by that time, I had lost 19 pounds in those three weeks, as well as developing severe anemia, and was on the verge of suicide. I transferred to a new treatment center that understood my aversions, my trauma, and my social anxiety, and they knew how to treat it, and I got the help I finally needed. And after 18 months of hard work, I went on to do incredible things. One of the things with Asperger's is that oftentimes, these people have a very complex inner life, and I know for myself, I have a very colorful personality, rich ideas, and just a lot going on in my mind. But there's a gap between where that stands, and how I communicate it with the rest of the world. And this can make basic communication a challenge. Not many places would hire me, due to my lack of social skills, which is why I applied to Waffle House. (Laughter) Waffle House is an exceptional 24-hour diner — (Laughter) (Applause) thank you — where you can order your hash browns the many ways that someone would dispose of a human corpse ... (Laughter) Sliced, diced, peppered, chunked, topped, capped, and covered. (Laughter) As social norms would have it, you should only go to Waffle House at an ungodly hour in the night. (Laughter) So one time, at 2 am, I was chatting with a waitress, and I asked her, ""What's the most ridiculous thing that's happened to you on the job?"" And she told me that one time, a man walked in completely naked. (Laughter) I said, ""Great! Sign me up for the graveyard shift!"" (Laughter) Needless to say, Waffle House did not hire me. So in terms of having Asperger's, it can be viewed as a disadvantage, and sometimes it is a real pain in the butt, but it's also the opposite. It's a gift, and it allows me to think innovatively. At 19, I won a research competition for my research on coral reefs, and I ended up speaking at the UN Convention of Biological Diversity, presenting this research. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) And at 22, I'm getting ready to graduate college, and I am a co-founder of a biotech company called AutismSees. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) But consider what I had to do to get here: 25 therapists, 11 misdiagnoses, and years of pain and trauma. I spent a lot of time thinking if there's a better way, and I think there is: autism-assistive technology. This technology could play an integral role in helping people with autistic spectrum disorder, or ASD. The app Podium, released by my company, AutismSees, has the ability to independently assess and help develop communication skills. In addition to this, it tracks eye contact through camera and simulates a public-speaking and job-interview experience. And so maybe one day, Waffle House will hire me, after practicing on it some more. (Laughter) And one of the great things is that I've used Podium to help me prepare for today, and it's been a great help. But it's more than that. There's more that can be done. For people with ASD — it has been speculated that many innovative scientists, researchers, artists, and engineers have it; like, for example, Emily Dickinson, Jane Austen, Isaac Newton, and Bill Gates are some examples. But the problem that's encountered is that these brilliant ideas often can't be shared if there are communication roadblocks. And so, many people with autism are being overlooked every day, and they're being taken advantage of. So my dream for people with autism is to change that, to remove the roadblocks that prevent them from succeeding. One of the reasons I love lucid dreaming is because it allows me to be free, without judgment of social and physical consequences. When I'm flying over scenes that I create in my mind, I am at peace. I am free from judgment, and so I can do whatever I want, you know? I'm making out with Brad Pitt, and Angelina is totally cool with it. (Laughter) But the goal of autism-assistive technology is bigger than that, and more important. My goal is to shift people's perspective of autism and people with higher-functioning Asperger's because there is a lot they can do. I mean, look at Temple Grandin, for example. And by doing so, we allow people to share their talents with this world and move this world forward. In addition, we give them the courage to pursue their dreams in the real world, in real time. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	今日我想跟大家談談夢想 我一直都發着清醒夢它比看電影 還要酷（笑聲）除了飛天 噴火㚈還可以讓性感的帥哥 自動走近眼前（笑聲）我可以做很多事 例如閱讀和作曲最有趣的是我在夢中 寫了一篇自我介紹用來申請入大學後來我真的獲取錄了 所以很棒 我擅長用視覺思考不用文字 而是用圖像思考我覺得文字比較像本能和語言 有很多人像我一樣例如尼古拉特斯拉他所有發明 都來自腦中閃出的靈感他準確地想像細節 再設計 測試 最後解決所有問題 語言對於我們這類人來說比較高檔我比較有點粗鄙好像谷歌翻譯的試用版（笑聲） 我腦內有種能力讓我非常專注有興趣的事物例如一旦我愛上了微積分比那些名人的婚姻 更來得長久（笑聲） 我還有其他奇異的特徴你會發現我談話時聲音缺少抑揚頓挫所以別人常常誤會我是一把GPS聲帶（笑聲）除非你只需要問路 否則很難溝通（笑聲）多謝（鼓掌聲） 幾年前 我要發表演說第一次拍頭部照片攝影師叫我扮成風情萬種（笑聲）我不明白她説什麼（笑聲） 她説：妳向男性調情時妳知道怎樣表示眼神 我問：怎樣什麼？ ＂瞇瞇眼＂ 於是我試試看就是這個樣子（笑聲）我像搜尋威利（兒童繪本）的樣子（笑聲） 其實這是有原因的威力躲在那裡 是有道理（笑聲） 我有阿氏保加症它是一種高功能自閉症缺乏應有的社交能力於是在日常生活 遇上不少困難長大後 我吃力地適應社交生活朋友說笑話時 我懵然不知我最崇拜喬治卡林和史提芬科拜爾 他們敎曉我什麼是幽默自己的性格由笨拙害羞變成大膽 常常口出狂言不用說 我交不到幾個朋友我對質感非常敏感當皮膚踫到水 就有如針刺的感覺所以多年來 我不肯洗澡但我可以保證 現在日常衞生已達標（笑聲） 我克服很多東西 才有今日 我父母⋯那時有一個同事侵犯我 一切失控平時我已經夠多問題 這樣更加雪山加霜我要穿州過省 橫越二千公里求醫但數日內 醫生開了一種新藥給我從此我走進了 如行屍電視劇的世界患上了妄想症 開始幻想有一羣腐爛的死屍 向我迎面而來最後家人救了我出來我在那還有患了嚴重貧血而且瀕臨自殺的邊緣 我轉到新的治療中心 他們知道我的反感 創傷及患有社交恐懼症懂得怎樣治療我 給我適當的照顧經過18個月的努力我繼續做一些令人難以置信的事 很多時 亞氏保加症患者內心很複雜我知道自己性格變化多端有很多想頭 在我腦袋不停在轉但有一條鴻溝在那我跟外面的世界表達自己的意念這樣做成溝通的障礙 因為缺乏社交技巧 沒有太多人請我這是我到窩夫專門店 見工的原因（笑聲）窩夫專門店是間頂級的24小時食店（笑聲）（鼓掌聲）多謝你在那這是有人想棄屍的途徑（笑聲）切片切粒 撒上糊椒粉 或切塊加蓋⋯（笑聲）由於易受社會束缚所以只在大家不方便的晚上 光顧這食店（笑聲）有一晚兩點 我跟女侍應閒聊 我問她：妳工作時 遇到什麼最荒謬的事情？她告訴我有一次看見一個全棵的男人走進來（笑聲）我說：好啊！請我做夜班吧！（笑聲）不用說 窩夫專門店並没有聘請我 提到阿氏保加症 人們認為是一種缺陷有時真是有點惱人但是也有相對的好處它給予我天賦 讓我創意無限我19歲就以珊瑚礁的硏究 奪得研究比賽最後更要發表演講到聯合國生物多樣性公約會議介紹這次研究（鼓掌聲）多謝（鼓掌聲）我22歲快將大學畢業時就是一間生物科技公司的共同創辦人 它名叫AutismSees（鼓掌聲）多謝（鼓掌聲） 但想到我經歷了什麼 才有今日： 我看過25個治療師 遭到11次誤診和受到多年的痛苦折磨我費煞思量 希望找到更好的方法我想是有的 就是自閉症輔助科技這類科技對幫助自閉光譜障礙人士起著不可缺少的作用它簡稱叫做ASD 我的公司AutismSees 發放了Podiom 手機程式可以獨立評估和提升溝通技巧而且它用相機 捕捉用者的眼神接觸也可以模擬公開演講 和見工的過程所以或許有一日 窩夫專門店會請我待我再練習多一些（笑聲）我採用Podium 其中最棒的地方它幫我一個大忙 準備今天的演講它還有很多好處還可以做到很多事情關於患有ASD人士人們都推測有很多有創意的科學家研究學者 藝術家和工程師都有ASD例如 埃美莉狄更生 珍奧斯汀 艾薩克牛頓和比爾蓋茨都是這些例子但問題是這些好主意常常不能一切分享因為溝通遇到阻滯每日有很多自閉症人士遭別人忽視讓人佔了便宜所以我希望替這些人改善情況折除他們步向成功的障礙 我愛發清醒夢的原因就是它讓我感覺自由自在不用理會社會的評價 和給身體帶來後果我的腦設計了場景 讓我在那裡飛翔那時我心境平靜不受別人的評頭品足想做什麼都可以跟畢比特親熱 但安祖蓮娜毫不在意笑聲） 這種科技還有更高的目標 更加重要的使命我要改變人們對自閉症的想法包括高效能阿氏保加症人士因為社會還可以多出幾分力你看天寶葛蘭汀便是一個例子如果那樣的話 他們便可以發揮所長 貢獻社會推動世界前進還有我們可以鼓勵他們追逐夢想在這真實的時候 真實的世界 多謝 （鼓掌聲） 多謝 （鼓掌聲）
