Talk	en	zh-tw
allison_hunt_gets_a_new_hip	"Allison Hunt: My three minutes hasn't started yet, has it? Chris Anderson: No, you can't start the three minutes. Reset the three minutes, that's just not fair. AH: Oh my God, it's harsh up here. I mean I'm nervous enough as it is. But I am not as nervous as I was five weeks ago. Five weeks ago I had total hip replacement surgery. Do you know that surgery? Electric saw, power drill, totally disgusting unless you're David Bolinsky, in which case it's all truth and beauty. Sure David, if it's not your hip, it's truth and beauty. Anyway, I did have a really big epiphany around the situation, so Chris invited me to tell you about it. But first you need to know two things about me. Just two things. I'm Canadian, and I'm the youngest of seven kids. Now, in Canada, we have that great healthcare system. That means we get our new hips for free. And being the youngest of seven, I have never been at the front of the line for anything. OK? So my hip had been hurting me for years. I finally went to the doctor, which was free. And she referred me to an orthopedic surgeon, also free. Finally got to see him after 10 months of waiting — almost a year. That is what free gets you. I met the surgeon, and he took some free X-rays, and I got a good look at them. And you know, even I could tell my hip was bad, and I actually work in marketing. So he said, ""Allison, we've got to get you on the table. I'm going to replace your hip — it's about an 18-month wait."" 18 more months. I'd already waited 10 months, and I had to wait 18 more months. You know, it's such a long wait that I actually started to even think about it in terms of TEDs. I wouldn't have my new hip for this TED. I wouldn't have my new hip for TEDGlobal in Africa. I would not have my new hip for TED2008. I would still be on my bad hip. That was so disappointing. So, I left his office and I was walking through the hospital, and that's when I had my epiphany. This youngest of seven had to get herself to the front of the line. Oh yeah. Can I tell you how un-Canadian that is? We do not think that way. We don't talk about it. It's not even a consideration. In fact, when we're traveling abroad, it's how we identify fellow Canadians. ""After you."" ""Oh, no, no. After you."" Hey, are you from Canada? ""Oh, me too! Hi!"" ""Great! Excellent!"" So no, suddenly I wasn't averse to butting any geezer off the list. Some 70-year-old who wanted his new hip so he could be back golfing, or gardening. No, no. Front of the line. So by now I was walking the lobby, and of course, that hurt, because of my hip, and I kind of needed a sign. And I saw a sign. In the window of the hospital's tiny gift shop there was a sign that said, ""Volunteers Needed."" Hmm. Well, they signed me up immediately. No reference checks. None of the usual background stuff, no. They were desperate for volunteers because the average age of the volunteer at the hospital gift shop was 75. Yeah. They needed some young blood. So, next thing you know, I had my bright blue volunteer vest, I had my photo ID, and I was fully trained by my 89-year-old boss. I worked alone. Every Friday morning I was at the gift shop. While ringing in hospital staff's Tic Tacs, I'd casually ask, ""What do you do?"" Then I'd tell them, ""Well, I'm getting my hip replaced — in 18 months. It's gonna be so great when the pain stops. Ow!"" All the staff got to know the plucky, young volunteer. My next surgeon's appointment was, coincidentally, right after a shift at the gift shop. So, naturally, I had my vest and my identification. I draped them casually over the chair in the doctor's office. And you know, when he walked in, I could just tell that he saw them. Moments later, I had a surgery date just weeks away, and a big fat prescription for Percocet. Now, word on the street was that it was actually my volunteering that got me to the front of the line. And, you know, I'm not even ashamed of that. Two reasons. First of all, I am going to take such good care of this new hip. But also I intend to stick with the volunteering, which actually leads me to the biggest epiphany of them all. Even when a Canadian cheats the system, they do it in a way that benefits society."	我的三分鐘還沒開始吧？ 没有。先别開始計時。重設時間，否則對她不公平。 天啊！這演講的規定也太嚴格了。我是說，我已經夠緊張啦！ 不過我已經没有五週前那麼緊張了。五週以前，我做了全髖骨置換手術— 你知道這個手術嗎？電鋸，電鑽，超級噁心的。除非你是大衛•布林斯基，因為他認為手術只有真和美。當然，大衛，只要不是你的髖骨，就會有真和美。 總之，這件事給了我很大的啟示。所以克里斯邀請我和大家分享這件事。但首先你需要知道兩件關於我的事。就兩件事。第一，我是加拿大人。第二，我是家中七個孩子裡最小的。在加拿大，我們有偉大的健保系統。那意味著置換髖骨是免費的。而身為七個小孩中的老么，做任何事情總是都需要排隊才輪得到我。對吧！ 我的髖骨已經痛了好幾年了。我終於去看了醫生。那是免費的。她將我轉診給骨外科醫生，那也是免費的。等了十個月後終於見到了他 — 將近一年呀！這就是免費的代價。我見了外科醫生，他幫我拍了幾張免費的 X 光片，我很仔細地看了這些 X 光片，然後你知道的，就連我這個大外行也看得出髖骨有問題。而我只是個從事行銷的人。因此他說：「艾麗森，我們必須幫你安排手術。」我要給你換個髖骨 — 大概需要 18 個月的等待。還要再等 18 個月?！我已經等了 10 個月了，現在還要再多等 18 個月。 你知道的，這麼漫長的等待讓我不禁開始使用 TED 演講來計算等待的時間。在這一次的 TED 我不會有新的髖骨，非洲的 TEDGlobal，我也不會有新髖骨，TED2008，我仍然不會有新髖骨。我的壞髖骨仍然會陪伴着我。這真是太令人失望了。 所以，我離開了他的辦公室，在醫院中走著，就在這時，我領悟到，七個孩子的老么必須想辦法擠到前面去。喔～對了！ 你知道這種行為很不像加拿大人嗎？我們不是這樣思考的。我們不會去談論這件事，呃，這根本不是一個選項。事實上，當我們在外國旅行時，我們就是這樣來辨別自己的同胞。「你先來。」「噢，不，不，你先來。」喂，你是從加拿大來的？「噢，我也是！嗨！」「太棒了！好極了！」 所以，不，忽然間我不介意把名單前面的老傢伙給擠到後面去。某些需要換髖骨的 70 歲老人，他們只是為了打打高爾夫球或種種花草。不，不。這次我要搶在前面。 那時我正在醫院的大廳行走，當然，因為我髖骨問題，所以很痛。我需要一個指引。然後我真的得到了指引，醫院裡的小禮品店窗上有個佈告，寫著，「義工招募中」。嗯～接著，他們馬上就僱用我了。沒有按常規檢查背景，不要推薦人，都不需要。他們極需義工因為醫院禮品店裡現有義工的平均年齡是 75 歲。是的。他們需要一些新血注入。 所以很快地我就穿上了鮮藍的義工背心，做了相片識別證，89 歲的老闆對我進行了全面的培訓。我能獨當一面了。每星期五早上我都在禮品店工作。每當醫院員工們在一起嗑牙閒聊時，我總會順口問問：「你是做什麼的？」接著我會告訴他們，「18 個月後我就能接受髖骨置換手術了。不用再受苦了，真是太好了！」全醫院的員工都認識這位勇敢的年輕義工。 很巧的，我和外科醫師的下個預約看診日，正好是我從禮品店下班後。因此，我理所當然地帶著背心和識別證去看醫生。我把它們隨手搭在醫生辦公室的椅子背上你可以想像，當醫生走進來時，我可以知道他看到了它們。一陣子後，我的手術時間定在幾週後，並開给我大量的止痛藥。 現在，市井間的傳言都說我能提前動手術是因為我做了醫院的義工。但你知道，我絲毫不對此感到羞愧。因為兩個原因。首先，我會很好地照顧這新髖骨。另外，我會繼續從事義工服務。我最大的啟示其實是從這裡得到的。即使當加拿大人會在制度面取巧，他們也是用之來造福社會。
