Talk	en	zh-tw
alyson_mcgregor_why_medicine_often_has_dangerous_side_effects_for_women	"We all go to doctors. And we do so with trust and blind faith that the test they are ordering and the medications they're prescribing are based upon evidence — evidence that's designed to help us. However, the reality is that that hasn't always been the case for everyone. What if I told you that the medical science discovered over the past century has been based on only half the population? I'm an emergency medicine doctor. I was trained to be prepared in a medical emergency. It's about saving lives. How cool is that? OK, there's a lot of runny noses and stubbed toes, but no matter who walks through the door to the ER, we order the same tests, we prescribe the same medication, without ever thinking about the sex or gender of our patients. Why would we? We were never taught that there were any differences between men and women. A recent Government Accountability study revealed that 80 percent of the drugs withdrawn from the market are due to side effects on women. So let's think about that for a minute. Why are we discovering side effects on women only after a drug has been released to the market? Do you know that it takes years for a drug to go from an idea to being tested on cells in a laboratory, to animal studies, to then clinical trials on humans, finally to go through a regulatory approval process, to be available for your doctor to prescribe to you? Not to mention the millions and billions of dollars of funding it takes to go through that process. So why are we discovering unacceptable side effects on half the population after that has gone through? What's happening? Well, it turns out that those cells used in that laboratory, they're male cells, and the animals used in the animal studies were male animals, and the clinical trials have been performed almost exclusively on men. How is it that the male model became our framework for medical research? Let's look at an example that has been popularized in the media, and it has to do with the sleep aid Ambien. Ambien was released on the market over 20 years ago, and since then, hundreds of millions of prescriptions have been written, primarily to women, because women suffer more sleep disorders than men. But just this past year, the Food and Drug Administration recommended cutting the dose in half for women only, because they just realized that women metabolize the drug at a slower rate than men, causing them to wake up in the morning with more of the active drug in their system. And then they're drowsy and they're getting behind the wheel of the car, and they're at risk for motor vehicle accidents. And I can't help but think, as an emergency physician, how many of my patients that I've cared for over the years were involved in a motor vehicle accident that possibly could have been prevented if this type of analysis was performed and acted upon 20 years ago when this drug was first released. How many other things need to be analyzed by gender? What else are we missing? World War II changed a lot of things, and one of them was this need to protect people from becoming victims of medical research without informed consent. So some much-needed guidelines or rules were set into place, and part of that was this desire to protect women of childbearing age from entering into any medical research studies. There was fear: what if something happened to the fetus during the study? Who would be responsible? And so the scientists at this time actually thought this was a blessing in disguise, because let's face it — men's bodies are pretty homogeneous. They don't have the constantly fluctuating levels of hormones that could disrupt clean data they could get if they had only men. It was easier. It was cheaper. Not to mention, at this time, there was a general assumption that men and women were alike in every way, apart from their reproductive organs and sex hormones. So it was decided: medical research was performed on men, and the results were later applied to women. What did this do to the notion of women's health? Women's health became synonymous with reproduction: breasts, ovaries, uterus, pregnancy. It's this term we now refer to as ""bikini medicine."" And this stayed this way until about the 1980s, when this concept was challenged by the medical community and by the public health policymakers when they realized that by excluding women from all medical research studies we actually did them a disservice, in that apart from reproductive issues, virtually nothing was known about the unique needs of the female patient. Since that time, an overwhelming amount of evidence has come to light that shows us just how different men and women are in every way. You know, we have this saying in medicine: children are not just little adults. And we say that to remind ourselves that children actually have a different physiology than normal adults. And it's because of this that the medical specialty of pediatrics came to light. And we now conduct research on children in order to improve their lives. And I know the same thing can be said about women. Women are not just men with boobs and tubes. But they have their own anatomy and physiology that deserves to be studied with the same intensity. Let's take the cardiovascular system, for example. This area in medicine has done the most to try to figure out why it seems men and women have completely different heart attacks. Heart disease is the number one killer for both men and women, but more women die within the first year of having a heart attack than men. Men will complain of crushing chest pain — an elephant is sitting on their chest. And we call this typical. Women have chest pain, too. But more women than men will complain of ""just not feeling right,"" ""can't seem to get enough air in,"" ""just so tired lately."" And for some reason we call this atypical, even though, as I mentioned, women do make up half the population. And so what is some of the evidence to help explain some of these differences? If we look at the anatomy, the blood vessels that surround the heart are smaller in women compared to men, and the way that those blood vessels develop disease is different in women compared to men. And the test that we use to determine if someone is at risk for a heart attack, well, they were initially designed and tested and perfected in men, and so aren't as good at determining that in women. And then if we think about the medications — common medications that we use, like aspirin. We give aspirin to healthy men to help prevent them from having a heart attack, but do you know that if you give aspirin to a healthy woman, it's actually harmful? What this is doing is merely telling us that we are scratching the surface. Emergency medicine is a fast-paced business. In how many life-saving areas of medicine, like cancer and stroke, are there important differences between men and women that we could be utilizing? Or even, why is it that some people get those runny noses more than others, or why the pain medication that we give to those stubbed toes work in some and not in others? The Institute of Medicine has said every cell has a sex. What does this mean? Sex is DNA. Gender is how someone presents themselves in society. And these two may not always match up, as we can see with our transgendered population. But it's important to realize that from the moment of conception, every cell in our bodies — skin, hair, heart and lungs — contains our own unique DNA, and that DNA contains the chromosomes that determine whether we become male or female, man or woman. It used to be thought that those sex-determining chromosomes pictured here — XY if you're male, XX if you're female — merely determined whether you would be born with ovaries or testes, and it was the sex hormones that those organs produced that were responsible for the differences we see in the opposite sex. But we now know that that theory was wrong — or it's at least a little incomplete. And thankfully, scientists like Dr. Page from the Whitehead Institute, who works on the Y chromosome, and Doctor Yang from UCLA, they have found evidence that tells us that those sex-determining chromosomes that are in every cell in our bodies continue to remain active for our entire lives and could be what's responsible for the differences we see in the dosing of drugs, or why there are differences between men and women in the susceptibility and severity of diseases. This new knowledge is the game-changer, and it's up to those scientists that continue to find that evidence, but it's up to the clinicians to start translating this data at the bedside, today. Right now. And to help do this, I'm a co-founder of a national organization called Sex and Gender Women's Health Collaborative, and we collect all of this data so that it's available for teaching and for patient care. And we're working to bring together the medical educators to the table. That's a big job. It's changing the way medical training has been done since its inception. But I believe in them. I know they're going to see the value of incorporating the gender lens into the current curriculum. It's about training the future health care providers correctly. And regionally, I'm a co-creator of a division within the Department of Emergency Medicine here at Brown University, called Sex and Gender in Emergency Medicine, and we conduct the research to determine the differences between men and women in emergent conditions, like heart disease and stroke and sepsis and substance abuse, but we also believe that education is paramount. We've created a 360-degree model of education. We have programs for the doctors, for the nurses, for the students and for the patients. Because this cannot just be left up to the health care leaders. We all have a role in making a difference. But I must warn you: this is not easy. In fact, it's hard. It's essentially changing the way we think about medicine and health and research. It's changing our relationship to the health care system. But there's no going back. We now know just enough to know that we weren't doing it right. Martin Luther King, Jr. has said, ""Change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle."" And the first step towards change is awareness. This is not just about improving medical care for women. This is about personalized, individualized health care for everyone. This awareness has the power to transform medical care for men and women. And from now on, I want you to ask your doctors whether the treatments you are receiving are specific to your sex and gender. They may not know the answer — yet. But the conversation has begun, and together we can all learn. Remember, for me and my colleagues in this field, your sex and gender matter. Thank you. (Applause)"	生病了我們都會去看醫生因為我們深信不疑醫生們所開出的檢查及用藥都是基於為了要幫我們恢復健康然而，事實並非全然如此如果我告訴你過去一百年的醫學研究都只針對半數的人口，你會怎麼想? 我是個急診醫生我受的是醫療急救的專業訓練就是有關拯救生命的工作聽起來很 “酷” 吧好，那兒有很多流鼻水和腳趾踢傷的病人但無論是那一個走進急診大門的病人我們都開同樣的檢查開同樣的藥連想都不去想病人的性別為什麼?因為從來沒有人教過我們男女病患會有什麼不一樣 最近一份政府責任署的統計調查顯示在所有下架的藥中有80%是因為對女性有副作用所以讓我們想一下為什麼我們會在藥品上市之後才發現它們會對女性有副作用?要知道一種藥從一個概念到在實驗室對細胞進行測試到對動物進行測試再到人體臨床測試最終到獲得上市許可再被醫生開出處方通常需要很多年的時間更不用說在研究過程中所投入數百萬、數十億的研究經費為什麼我們在經過以上所有程序後才發現有半數人口無法容忍的副作用呢?出什麼問題了? 原來是因為那些在實驗室被用來做檢測的細胞都是男性的細胞動物檢測用的細胞也都是雄性動物的細胞就連臨床測試也幾乎都針對男性 男性為什麼會成為我們醫療研究的主要對象?我們來看看這個在媒體上很受歡迎的例子幫助睡眠的安眠藥- Ambien這藥已經上市超過20年從上市至今已開出數億的處方簽大多都是開給女性因為女性較易有睡眠問題但就在去年食品藥物管理局提出建議女性病患用藥量應減半因為他們發現女性代謝安眠藥的速度比男性慢這使得女性病患在起床後身體中仍有藥物作用因此她們在開車時仍昏昏欲睡有出車禍的風險身為一個急診醫生，我不禁自問多年來我所照顧過的車禍病患有多少人其實是能避免意外發生的如果早在藥物剛上市的20年前就能做這樣的分析研究的話還有多少其他事需要做性別分析?我們還遺漏了那些環節? 第二次世界大戰改變了許多事情其中之一是保護人們免於在沒有 ‘知情同意’ 的情況下成為醫學研究的受害者許多迫切需要的準則或規則被設定了而其中就有一些旨在保護生育年齡女性避免進入任何醫學研究中因為害怕，如果胎兒在研究中受到傷害要由誰負責?所以當時的科學家認為這是因禍得福因為事實上，男性的生理非常平穩他們不會有賀爾蒙週期性波動的問題如果科學家只用純男性研究對象，就不會因而干擾到研究數據。這樣比較簡單，也比較便宜更不用說在那時候社會普遍認為男女之間沒有太大的差別除了生殖器官以及性賀爾蒙外所以達成共識醫學研究只對男性進行測試研究結果再套用在女性身上 這對女性建康表達什麼樣的概念？女性健康成為生殖的代名詞：乳房、卵巢、子宮、懷孕。我們現在通稱為「比基尼醫學」這樣的觀念一直持續到1980年代才有醫界以及公衛決策者對此提出質疑。當他們了解從所有醫學研究排除女性事實上是幫倒忙除了生殖議題外其實我們對女性病患的特殊需求一無所知 從那時起，大量的証據暴露無遺地顯示男女之間有顯著的不同你知道，在醫學界有此一說小孩並不是“小大人”我們用此來提醒自己小孩子與大人的生理不同也因此小兒專科才獨立出來現在，我們從事兒童醫學研究以改善他們的生活而我知道，女性也是一樣情況女人並不只是多了胸部及「生殖腔」的男人她們有自己的解剖構造和生理狀況需要有相同關注來研究 我用心血管系統來說明醫學界在這方面作很多努力， 試圖找出為什麼男性與女性心臟病的發作完全不同心臟病是導致男性及女性死亡的第一號殺手但是在心臟病發作的第一年內女性死亡多於男性發病時，男性會抱怨壓迫性的胸口劇痛像是有隻大象坐在胸口一般我們稱之為典型心臟病女性也會感到胸痛但大多數女性只會說感覺「不對勁」「吸不到空氣」「最近總是非常累」而不知道為什麼，即使女性占了半數人口我們仍稱之為非典型心臟病 所以有什麼證據能解釋這些差異呢?讓我們看看解剖學環繞在心臟周圍的血管，女性比男性來得小血管病變發展的方式男女相比，也不一樣我們現在用來診斷潛在心臟病的方法當然，它當初也是針對男性完美設計及測試的所以在診斷女性病患就不甚理想然後我們討論到藥品一般常用的成藥，像是阿斯匹林我們給健康男性阿斯匹林來預防心臟病但是你知道嗎? 給健康女性阿斯匹林其實是有害的 這些都是在告訴我們我們了解的實在很淺急診醫學是一種快節奏的醫療事務!在挽救生命的醫療領域裡像是癌症或中風有那些男女間重要差異我們可用以改進醫學呢？或甚至為什麼有些人比別人更容易流鼻水或為什麼用在踢傷腳趾的止痛藥在一些人身上有較好的效果? 醫學研究所已經發現每個細胞都有生理性別這代表什麼?生理性別取決於DNA社會性別則是人們在社會上如何表現自己這兩者並沒有絕對的等號所以社會上有跨性別的族群但我們要了解，在受孕的那一刻我們身體上的每一個細胞皮膚、頭髮、心臟或肺臟都有專屬於你的DNA而這些DNA則含有決定你是男性或女性、男人或女人的染色體 過去曾普遍認為照片上這個決定性別的染色體男性是XY，女性是XX只決定你會有卵巢或睪丸而這些性器官製造的性賀爾蒙則負責表現出我們看見的性別外貌但我們現在知道這個理論是錯誤的－或者至少是不完整的幸好有懷特黑德生物醫學研究所的科學家們（如：Page博士）一直在研究Y染色體以及來自加州大學洛杉磯分校的楊博士他們找到證據說明決定我們性別的染色體存在於身體裡的每一個細胞終身活躍也能說明這些染色體和用藥劑量上的差異是有關的同時說明了為什麼男性和女性在疾病的敏感度和嚴重度是不同的這個新知將徹底改變以往的認知現在，科學家的責任是要繼續發現証據而臨床醫生的責任是要解讀運用這些數據在臨床上現在為了協助這項研究，我協同創立了一個全國性組織生理性別和社會性別女性健康協會我們收集所有相關的研究數據用於教學及病人照護我們努力聚集醫學教育家們一起研議這是一項大工程從成立日起，它正改變醫學訓練的方式 但我相信我們能成功他們會看到將性別研究納入現有課程的意義所在這事關正確教導未來的醫護人員在當地我是布朗大學急診醫學科的“生理和社會性别急救醫學部門”的聯合創始人我們致力於研究男性和女性在緊急情況下的不同反應比如心臟病和中風、敗血症和藥物濫用但我們始終相信教育才是最重要的 我們建立了全方位的教學模式我們有針對醫生、護士、學生以及病人的課程因為我們不能把問題都留給醫療保健的管理者我們都有一份責任來改變現狀但要提醒的是：改變並不簡單實際上，非常困難基本上，它改變我們對醫學、健康和研究的思考方式它也正在改變我們和醫療保健系统之間的關係這已沒有退路可選我們現在知道的僅能理解我們以前做的是錯誤的 馬丁路德金曾說過改變並不會自然而然發生而是經過持續不斷的奮鬥 改變的第一步就是覺醒這不僅僅指改善女性的醫療保健更指的是每個人的個別化醫療保健覺醒的力量能轉變對男性或女生的醫療照護從現在起我希望你詢問你的醫生你所接受的治療是否是針對你的生理和社會性別的他們也許並不知道答案至少現在是但至少這有了個開始，我們可以一起學習記住，對於我和我的同事而言你的性別是重要的 謝謝 （鼓掌）
