Talk	en	zh-tw
amanda_palmer_the_art_of_asking	"(Breathes in) (Breathes out) So, I didn't always make my living from music. For about the five years after graduating from an upstanding liberal arts university, this was my day job. (Laughter) I was a self-employed living statue called the Eight-Foot Bride, and I love telling people I did this for a job, because everybody always wants to know, who are these freaks in real life. (Laughter) Hello. I painted myself white one day, stood on a box, put a hat or a can at my feet, and when someone came by and dropped in money, I handed them a flower — and some intense eye contact. And if they didn't take the flower, I threw in a gesture of sadness and longing — as they walked away. (Laughter) So I had the most profound encounters with people, especially lonely people who looked like they hadn't talked to anyone in weeks, and we would get this beautiful moment of prolonged eye contact being allowed in a city street, and we would sort of fall in love a little bit. And my eyes would say — ""Thank you. I see you."" And their eyes would say — ""Nobody ever sees me. Thank you."" I would get harassed sometimes. People would yell at me from their cars. ""Get a job!"" (Laughing) And I'd be, like, ""This is my job."" But it hurt, because it made me fear that I was somehow doing something un-joblike and unfair, shameful. I had no idea how perfect a real education I was getting for the music business on this box. And for the economists out there, you may be interested to know I actually made a pretty predictable income, which was shocking to me, given I had no regular customers, but pretty much 60 bucks on a Tuesday, 90 bucks on a Friday. It was consistent. And meanwhile, I was touring locally and playing in nightclubs with my band, the Dresden Dolls. This was me on piano, a genius drummer. I wrote the songs, and eventually we started making enough money that I could quit being a statue, and as we started touring, I really didn't want to lose this sense of direct connection with people, because I loved it. So after all of our shows, we would sign autographs and hug fans and hang out and talk to people, and we made an art out of asking people to help us and join us, and I would track down local musicians and artists and they would set up outside of our shows, and they would pass the hat, and then they would come in and join us onstage, so we had this rotating smorgasbord of weird, random circus guests. And then Twitter came along, and made things even more magic, because I could ask instantly for anything anywhere. So I would need a piano to practice on, and an hour later I would be at a fan's house. This is in London. People would bring home-cooked food to us all over the world backstage and feed us and eat with us. This is in Seattle. Fans who worked in museums and stores and any kind of public space would wave their hands if I would decide to do a last-minute, spontaneous, free gig. This is a library in Auckland. On Saturday I tweeted for this crate and hat, because I did not want to schlep them from the East Coast, and they showed up care of this dude, Chris, from Newport Beach, who says hello. I once tweeted, ""Where in Melbourne can I buy a neti pot?"" And a nurse from a hospital drove one right at that moment to the cafe I was in, and I bought her a smoothie and we sat there talking about nursing and death. And I love this kind of random closeness, which is lucky, because I do a lot of couchsurfing. In mansions where everyone in my crew gets their own room but there's no wireless, and in punk squats, everyone on the floor in one room with no toilets but with wireless, clearly making it the better option. (Laughter) My crew once pulled our van up to a really poor Miami neighborhood and we found out that our couchsurfing host for the night was an 18-year-old girl, still living at home, and her family were all undocumented immigrants from Honduras. And that night, her whole family took the couches and she slept together with her mom so that we could take their beds. And I lay there thinking, these people have so little. Is this fair? And in the morning, her mom taught us how to try to make tortillas and wanted to give me a Bible, and she took me aside and she said to me in her broken English, ""Your music has helped my daughter so much. Thank you for staying here. We're all so grateful."" And I thought, this is fair. This is this. A couple of months later, I was in Manhattan, and I tweeted for a crash pad, and at midnight, I'm on the Lower East Side, and it occurs to me I've never actually done this alone. I've always been with my band or my crew. Is this what stupid people do? (Laughter) Is this how stupid people die? And before I can change my mind, the door busts open. She's an artist. He's a financial blogger for Reuters, and they're pouring me a glass of red wine and offering me a bath, and I have had thousands of nights like that and like that. So I couchsurf a lot. I also crowdsurf a lot. I maintain couchsurfing and crowdsurfing are basically the same thing. You're falling into the audience and you're trusting each other. I once asked an opening band of mine if they wanted to go out into the crowd and pass the hat to get some extra money, something that I did a lot. And as usual, the band was psyched, but there was this one guy in the band who told me he just couldn't bring himself to go out there. It felt too much like begging to stand there with the hat. And I recognized his fear of ""Is this fair?"" and ""Get a job."" And meanwhile, my band is becoming bigger and bigger. We sign with a major label. And our music is a cross between punk and cabaret. It's not for everybody. Well, maybe it's for you. (Laughter) We sign, and there's all this hype leading up to our next record. And it comes out and it sells about 25,000 copies in the first few weeks, and the label considers this a failure. I was like, ""25,000, isn't that a lot?"" They said, ""No, the sales are going down. It's a failure."" And they walk off. Right at this same time, I'm signing and hugging after a gig, and a guy comes up to me and hands me a $10 bill, and he says, ""I'm sorry, I burned your CD from a friend."" (Laughter) ""But I read your blog, I know you hate your label. I just want you to have this money."" And this starts happening all the time. I become the hat after my own gigs, but I have to physically stand there and take the help from people, and unlike the guy in the opening band, I've actually had a lot of practice standing there. Thank you. And this is the moment I decide I'm just going to give away my music for free online whenever possible, so it's like Metallica over here, Napster, bad; Amanda Palmer over here, and I'm going to encourage torrenting, downloading, sharing, but I'm going to ask for help, because I saw it work on the street. So I fought my way off my label, and for my next project with my new band, the Grand Theft Orchestra, I turned to crowdfunding. And I fell into those thousands of connections that I'd made, and I asked my crowd to catch me. And the goal was 100,000 dollars. My fans backed me at nearly 1.2 million, which was the biggest music crowdfunding project to date. (Applause) And you can see how many people it is. It's about 25,000 people. And the media asked, ""Amanda, the music business is tanking and you encourage piracy. How did you make all these people pay for music?"" And the real answer is, I didn't make them. I asked them. And through the very act of asking people, I'd connected with them, and when you connect with them, people want to help you. It's kind of counterintuitive for a lot of artists. They don't want to ask for things. But it's not easy. It's not easy to ask. And a lot of artists have a problem with this. Asking makes you vulnerable. And I got a lot of criticism online, after my Kickstarter went big, for continuing my crazy crowdsourcing practices, specifically for asking musicians who are fans if they wanted to join us on stage for a few songs in exchange for love and tickets and beer, and this was a doctored image that went up of me on a website. And this hurt in a really familiar way. And people saying, ""You're not allowed anymore to ask for that kind of help,"" really reminded me of the people in their cars yelling, ""Get a job."" Because they weren't with us on the sidewalk, and they couldn't see the exchange that was happening between me and my crowd, an exchange that was very fair to us but alien to them. So this is slightly not safe for work. This is my Kickstarter backer party in Berlin. At the end of the night, I stripped and let everyone draw on me. Now let me tell you, if you want to experience the visceral feeling of trusting strangers — (Laughter) I recommend this, especially if those strangers are drunk German people. (Laughter) This was a ninja master-level fan connection, because what I was really saying here was, I trust you this much. Should I? Show me. For most of human history, musicians, artists, they've been part of the community. Connectors and openers, not untouchable stars. Celebrity is about a lot of people loving you from a distance, but the Internet and the content that we're freely able to share on it are taking us back. It's about a few people loving you up close and about those people being enough. So a lot of people are confused by the idea of no hard sticker price. They see it as an unpredictable risk, but the things I've done, the Kickstarter, the street, the doorbell, I don't see these things as risk. I see them as trust. Now, the online tools to make the exchange as easy and as instinctive as the street, they're getting there. But the perfect tools aren't going to help us if we can't face each other and give and receive fearlessly, but, more important — to ask without shame. My music career has been spent trying to encounter people on the Internet the way I could on the box. So blogging and tweeting not just about my tour dates and my new video but about our work and our art and our fears and our hangovers, our mistakes, and we see each other. And I think when we really see each other, we want to help each other. I think people have been obsessed with the wrong question, which is, ""How do we make people pay for music?"" What if we started asking, ""How do we let people pay for music?"" Thank you. (Applause)"	"(呼氣，吐氣) 所以我並不是一直都靠音樂為生差不多五年以來自從我從一所著名的文科大學畢業後這就是我的工作我是一個自雇的活雕像，叫做“八尺新娘”我非常喜歡告訴他人我以此為工作因為大家都想要知道，在現實生活中，這些怪胎到底是誰？哈囉有天我把自己漆成白色，站在一個箱子上把一頂帽子或鋁罐放在我腳邊當有人路過給錢的時候我會給他們一朵花 也會與他們有強烈的眼神接觸如果他們沒有接受我的花他們走離時我會展現出非常悲傷和渴望的姿態 （笑聲） 所以我與人們有過非常深刻的接觸尤其是寂寞的人看起來好像有好幾個禮拜沒與人說過話的樣子這是美麗的一刻在城市的街道上，我們長時間的目光接觸好像我們稍稍地墜入愛河我的眼神會說：""謝謝你，我看得到你。“而他們的眼神會說""從來沒有人真正看到我，謝謝你""。 有時我會被騷擾有人開車路過時，會對著我吼""找份工作去!""我就會說，""這就是我的工作""。但我會覺得受傷，因為這讓我害怕好像我所做的并不是工作好像我所做的是不正當的，可恥的。我並不知道，其實我在這個箱子上所得到的對於我的音樂事業是一個多麼完美的一課對於一些經濟學家來說他們可能會想知道，其實我的收入非常穩定這令我感到震驚因為我並沒有常客但通常週二差不多賺60塊錢，週五90塊錢。這是固定的。 同時，我與我的樂團”德勒斯登玩偶“在當地的夜店做巡迴演出這是我在彈鋼琴，那是一位天才鼓手。我負責寫歌，而最終我們賺到了足夠的錢，使我可以不用再做活體雕像當我們開始巡迴演出，我並不想失去這種與人的心靈交匯因為我很喜歡這種感覺所以演出結束后，我們會幫歌迷簽名給他們擁抱，與他們互動聊天我們將尋求協助變成了一種藝術也讓其他人加入我們，我會找到當地的音樂家和藝人讓他們在我們的秀場外表演他們會傳遞帽子然後會進來加入我們一起在舞臺上表演所以我們的表演會有形形色色的雜技藝人客串 之後有了”推特”事情變得更神奇，因為我可以馬上在任何地方尋求任何東西我可能需要一台鋼琴做練習一個小時後，我就會在一位歌迷的家中，這是在倫敦在世界各地 ，人們會把自做的家常菜帶到後臺給我們，與我們一起吃飯，這是在西雅圖在博物館和商店工作的歌迷們或者在公共空間工作的歌迷們，會揮手致意如果我臨時決定做一場即興的免費演出這是一個在奧克蘭的圖書館。上週六我在推特上提到這個條板箱和帽子，因為我不想從東岸就帶著它們而這位名叫克利斯的老兄幫我們照看了這些東西他來自紐波特海灘，也向你們問好有一次，我在推特上說在墨爾本哪裏可以買到洗鼻壺？而一位在醫院工作的護士開車送到我當時所在的一家咖啡廳我給她買了一杯冰沙我們坐在那裡談及到護理和死亡 我很喜歡這種隨意的近距離接觸這對我來講是幸運的，因為我是一個沙發客如果是一棟豪宅 ，我的團隊可能都可以有自己的房間但沒有無線網路，比起在一個寮屋每個人擠在同一個房間，睡在地上，沒有廁所但是有無線網路，當然寮屋是更好的選擇 （笑聲） 我的團隊有一次把我們的休旅車開到邁阿密的一個貧困社區我們發現，那晚提供我們沙發睡的人是一位18歲的女孩，仍住在家裡而她的家人都是從宏都拉斯來的非法移民那天晚上，她全家都睡在沙發上，她與她媽一起睡好讓我們可以睡他們的床我躺在那裡思考這些人有如此之少這公平嗎？早上的時候，她媽媽教我們如何做玉米餅，她還想要給我一本聖經她把我拉到一邊，用蹩腳的英語對我說""你的音樂幫了我女兒好多“”謝謝你住在這裡，我們都很感激。“之後我想了想，這是公平的。就是這樣。 幾個月後，我在曼哈頓我在推特上尋求一個臨時住處，在午夜的時候我在下東區的一個地方按門鈴我才想到 我從來沒有一個人這樣做過我一直都是跟著我的樂團或者團隊這就是愚蠢的人會做的事嗎？（笑聲）愚蠢的人就是這麼死的嗎？在我可以改變主意之前，門被突然打開她是一位藝人，而他為""路透社""的寫金融博客他們給我倒了杯紅酒讓我洗了個澡幾千個夜晚，我就是這樣或那樣度過的 我常當沙發客，我也常常”人群衝浪“我一直認為，其實當一個沙發客和人群衝浪基本上是一樣的你墜落到觀眾群裡你們互相信任對方有一次我問我的開幕樂隊問他們要不要走到觀眾群裡，傳遞帽子多賺點錢，我常做這樣的事像往常一樣，樂隊非常興奮可是樂隊裡，有一個人他告訴我他沒辦法讓自己走出去站在那裡拿著帽子，感覺太像乞討我了解了他的恐懼，那種""這公平嗎?""和""找份工作吧""的恐懼 同時，我的樂隊正在越變越大我們與唱片公司簽了約我們的樂風是龐克和卡巴萊的混合不是每個人都喜歡可能你會喜歡吧我們簽了約，大家對於我們的下一張專輯都有所期待發片後前幾個禮拜賣了差不多25,000張唱片公司認為這是一個失敗 我說，""25,000不是很多嗎?"" 他們說，""不，銷售在下降，這是失敗。”他們就放棄了 就在這同時，我在表演過後為歌迷簽名，與他們擁抱一個男人向我走來給我一張10元的鈔票他說""我很抱歉，你的CD我是從朋友那燒來的。”（笑聲）""但我看到你的部落格，知道你討厭你的唱片公司。“""我只是想要你拿到這筆錢"" 同樣的事情開始常常發生表演完後，我成為了帽子可是我必須真的站在那裡，接受人們給我的幫助跟那位開幕樂團的傢伙不一樣的是對於站在那個位置上，我已經有了很多練習謝謝你 那個時刻，我決定我要把我的音樂免費送出隨時可以在網路上得到，所以”金屬樂隊“在這，""納普斯特""不好亞曼達 · 帕默爾在這裡，而我會鼓勵所有流下載、下載、分享，但我會尋求幫助因為我看到這在大街上行得通為了我下一個計劃，我努力擺脫了我的唱片公司與我的新樂隊，“俠盜樂團”，我轉而投向了人群衝浪墜入我建立的成千上萬的心靈交匯中我請求我的觀眾接住我目標是10萬美元我的歌迷們支持實際達到近120萬元這是到目前為止最大的音樂集資專案 （掌聲） 你可以看的到有多少人參與約25,000人 媒體們問我，""亞曼達“音樂事業正在衰退，你卻鼓勵盜版你是如何讓這麼多人為音樂付錢的？真正的答案是，不是我讓他們，而是我請求他們通過真正的請求他人我會與他們建立心靈交匯當你與他們有所交匯，人們會想要幫你這個對於很多藝人來說是違反常理的他們不想請求什麼它並不容易，請求他人並不容易很多藝人都做不到請求會使你變得脆弱 我的募資網站成功後許多人在網路上批評我因為我繼續這種瘋狂的”眾包“做法特別是當我詢問那些同是歌迷的音樂家來與我們一同在台上為一點愛、門票和啤酒唱幾首歌一個網站上有一張我的篡改照片這種痛讓我感到非常熟悉當人們說，”你不能再繼續这么做了“”不能繼續尋求那樣的幫助了“的時候讓我想起了在車裡向我吼”找份工作吧“的人因為他們沒和我們一起站在街上他們看不到我與觀眾之間的交流這種交流對我們來說是公平的，對他們來說卻是陌生的 這對工作來講有點不安全這是我在柏林的募資網站支持者派對當晚臨終時，我脫光了衣服，讓大家在我身上畫畫讓我告訴你，如果你想要試試那種徹底相信陌生人的感覺我推薦這麼做特別是如果那些陌生人是喝醉的德國人這是一個大師級的歌迷互動活動因為我在那表達的是我是如此信任你我該如此嗎？讓我看看 在大部份的人類歷史中，音樂家、 藝人，他們是社區的一部分他們是連接者與開闢者，不是無法觸及的明星當一位名人就是讓許多人在遠處愛慕你可是網路以及我們可以自由在網路上分享的內容讓我們可以回過來讓一些人可以近距離愛慕你還有覺得有了那些人就已經足夠所以很多人對於沒有”標籤價格“的概念感到困惑他們認為這是一種不可預知的風險，但我以前所做的募資網站，街頭賣藝，按人家門鈴，我無法將這些看做風險我將這些看做信任那些讓交流像在街頭一樣變得更簡單，更自然的網路工具正在慢慢進步可是如果我們無法面對彼此無畏的給予和接受完美的工具並不會幫助我們更重要的是，我們不要對請求感到羞恥 我花了整個音樂生涯想要與網路上的人們有像站在箱子上的接觸所以我在部落格和推特上不只提到我的巡迴演出日期和我的新視頻，也提到關於我們的工作，藝術，恐懼，宿醉經驗，錯誤這樣我們就看得到彼此我認為，當我們真正看得到彼此時我們就會想要幫助彼此 我認為人們一直在錯誤的問題上鑽牛角尖那就是，”我們該如何使人們花錢買音樂？“如果我們開始問的是""我們該如何讓人們自己買音樂?"" 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
