Talk	en	zh-tw
amanda_bennett_a_heroic_narrative_for_letting_go	"So I'd like you to come back with me just for a few minutes to a dark night in China, the night I met my husband. It was a city so long ago that it was still called Peking. So I went to a party. I sat down next to a stout, middle-aged man with owl glasses and a bow tie, and he turned out to be a Fulbright scholar, there in China specifically to study Sino-Soviet relations. What a gift it was to the eager, young foreign correspondent that I was then. I'd pump him for information, I'm mentally scribbling notes for the stories I plan to write. I talk to him for hours. Only months later, I discover who he really was. He was the China representative for the American Soybean Association. ""I don't understand. Soybeans? You told me you were a Fulbright scholar."" ""Well, how long would you have talked to me if I told you we're in soybeans?"" (Laughter) I said, ""You jerk."" Only jerk wasn't the word I used. I said, ""You could've gotten me fired."" And he said, ""Let's get married."" (Laughter) ""Travel the world and have lots of kids."" So we did. (Laughter) (Applause) And what an alive man Terence Bryan Foley turned out to be. He was a Chinese scholar who later, in his 60s, got a Ph.D. in Chinese history. He spoke six languages, he played 15 musical instruments, he was a licensed pilot, he had once been a San Francisco cable car operator, he was an expert in swine nutrition, dairy cattle, Dixieland jazz, film noir, and we did travel the country, and the world, and we did have a lot of kids. We followed my job, and it seemed like there was nothing that we couldn't do. So when we found the cancer, it doesn't seem strange to us at all that without saying a word to each other, we believed that, if we were smart enough and strong enough and brave enough, and we worked hard enough, we could keep him from dying ever. And for years, it seemed like we were succeeding. The surgeon emerged from the surgery. What'd he say? He said what surgeons always say: ""We got it all."" Then there was a setback when the pathologists looked at the kidney cancer closely. It turned out to be a rare, exceedingly aggressive type, with a diagnosis that was almost universally fatal in several weeks at most. And yet, he did not die. Mysteriously, he lived on. He coached Little League for our son. He built a playhouse for our daughter. And meanwhile, I'm burying myself in the Internet looking for specialists. I'm looking for a cure. So a year goes by before the cancer, as cancers do, reappears, and with it comes another death sentence, this time nine months. So we try another treatment, aggressive, nasty. It makes him so sick, he has to quit it, yet still he lives on. Then another year goes by. Two years go by. More specialists. We take the kids to Italy. We take the kids to Australia. And then more years pass, and the cancer begins to grow. This time, there's new treatments on the horizon. They're exotic. They're experimental. They're going to attack the cancer in new ways. So he enters a clinical trial, and it works. The cancer begins to shrink, and for the third time, we've dodged death. So now I ask you, how do I feel when the time finally comes and there's another dark night, sometime between midnight and 2 a.m.? This time it's on the intensive care ward when a twentysomething resident that I've never met before tells me that Terence is dying, perhaps tonight. So what do I say when he says, ""What do you want me to do?"" There's another drug out there. It's newer. It's more powerful. He started it just two weeks ago. Perhaps there's still hope ahead. So what do I say? I say, ""Keep him alive if you can."" And Terence died six days later. So we fought, we struggled, we triumphed. It was an exhilarating fight, and I'd repeat the fight today without a moment's hesitation. We fought together, we lived together. It turned what could have been seven of the grimmest years of our life into seven of the most glorious. It was also an expensive fight. It was the kind of fight and the kind of choices that everyone here agrees pump up the cost of end-of-life care, and of healthcare for all of us. And for me, for us, we pushed the fight right over the edge, and I never got the chance to say to him what I say to him now almost every day: ""Hey, buddy, it was a hell of a ride."" We never got the chance to say goodbye. We never thought it was the end. We always had hope. So what do we make of all of this? Being a journalist, after Terence died, I wrote a book, ""The Cost Of Hope."" I wrote it because I wanted to know why I did what I did, why he did what he did, why everyone around us did what they did. And what did I discover? Well, one of the things I discovered is that experts think that one answer to what I did at the end was a piece of paper, the advance directive, to help families get past the seemingly irrational choices. Yet I had that piece of paper. We both did. And they were readily available. I had them right at hand. Both of them said the same thing: Do nothing if there is no further hope. I knew Terence's wishes as clearly and as surely as I knew my own. Yet we never got to no further hope. Even with that clear-cut paper in our hands, we just kept redefining hope. I believed I could keep him from dying, and I'd be embarrassed to say that if I hadn't seen so many people and have talked to so many people who have felt exactly the same way. Right up until days before his death, I felt strongly and powerfully, and, you might say, irrationally, that I could keep him from dying ever. Now, what do the experts call this? They say it's denial. It's a strong word, isn't it? Yet I will tell you that denial isn't even close to a strong enough word to describe what those of us facing the death of our loved ones go through. And I hear the medical professionals say, ""Well, we'd like to do such-and-such, but the family's in denial. The family won't listen to reason. They're in denial. How can they insist on this treatment at the end? It's so clear, yet they're in denial."" Now, I think this maybe isn't a very useful way of thinking. It's not just families either. The medical professionals too, you out there, you're in denial too. You want to help. You want to fix. You want to do. You've succeeded in everything you've done, and having a patient die, well, that must feel like failure. I saw it firsthand. Just days before Terence died, his oncologist said, ""Tell Terence that better days are just ahead."" Days before he died. Yet Ira Byock, the director of palliative medicine at Dartmouth said, ""You know, the best doctor in the world has never succeeded in making anyone immortal."" So what the experts call ""denial,"" I call ""hope,"" and I'd like to borrow a phrase from my friends in software design. You just redefine denial and hope, and it becomes a feature of being human. It's not a bug. It's a feature. (Laughter) So we need to think more constructively about this very common, very profound and very powerful human emotion. It's part of the human condition, and yet our system and our thinking isn't built to accommodate it. So Terence told me a story on that long-ago night, and I believed it. Maybe I wanted to believe it. And during Terence's illness, I, we, we wanted to believe the story of our fight together too. Giving up the fight — for that's how it felt, it felt like giving up — meant giving up not only his life but also our story, our story of us as fighters, the story of us as invincible, and for the doctors, the story of themselves as healers. So what do we need? Maybe we don't need a new piece of paper. Maybe we need a new story, not a story about giving up the fight or of hopelessness, but rather a story of victory and triumph, of a valiant battle and, eventually, a graceful retreat, a story that acknowledges that not even the greatest general defeats every foe, that no doctor has ever succeeded in making anyone immortal, and that no wife, no matter how hard she tried, has ever stopped even the bravest, wittiest and most maddeningly lovable husband from dying when it was his time to go. People did mention hospice, but I wouldn't listen. Hospice was for people who were dying, and Terence wasn't dying. As a result, he spent just four days in hospice, which I'm sure, as you all know, is a pretty typical outcome, and we never said goodbye because we were unprepared for the end. We have a noble path to curing the disease, patients and doctors alike, but there doesn't seem to be a noble path to dying. Dying is seen as failing, and we had a heroic narrative for fighting together, but we didn't have a heroic narrative for letting go. So maybe we need a narrative for acknowledging the end, and for saying goodbye, and maybe our new story will be about a hero's fight, and a hero's goodbye. Terence loved poetry, and the Greek poet Constantine Cavafy is one of my favorite poets. So I'll give you a couple lines from him. This is a poem about Mark Antony. You know Mark Antony, the conquering hero, Cleopatra's guy? Actually, one of Cleopatra's guys. And he's been a pretty good general. He's won all the fights, he's eluded all the people that are out to get him, and yet this time, finally, he's come to the city of Alexandria and realized he's lost. The people are leaving. They're playing instruments. They're singing. And suddenly he knows he's been defeated. And he suddenly knows he's been deserted by the gods, and it's time to let go. And the poet tells him what to do. He tells him how to say a noble goodbye, a goodbye that's fit for a hero. ""As if long-prepared, as if courageous, as it becomes you who were worthy of such a city, approach the window with a firm step, and with emotion, but not with the entreaties or the complaints of a coward, as a last enjoyment, listen to the sounds, the exquisite instruments of the musical troops, and bid her farewell, the Alexandria you are losing."" That's a goodbye for a man who was larger than life, a goodbye for a man for whom anything, well, almost anything, was possible, a goodbye for a man who kept hope alive. And isn't that what we're missing? How can we learn that people's decisions about their loved ones are often based strongly, powerfully, many times irrationally, on the slimmest of hopes? The overwhelming presence of hope isn't denial. It's part of our DNA as humans, and maybe it's time our healthcare system — doctors, patients, insurance companies, us, started accounting for the power of that hope. Hope isn't a bug. It's a feature. Thank you. (Applause)"	"首先我想帶大家跟我一起用幾分鐘回憶那個在中國的深夜那個我初遇我先夫的夜晚那是個歷史悠久的城市，而它至今仍被稱作北京 那晚我參加了一個派對我在一個矮胖的中年男子身旁坐下他戴著一副圓眼鏡，打了一個領結他自稱是「傅爾布萊特計畫」的學者到中國來研究中國和蘇聯的關係對那時候是年輕駐外記者的我是一個多麼及時的禮物我撲向他汲取信息我用心記下筆記為我將要寫的故事做準備我跟他交流了幾小時 僅僅在幾個月之後，我才發現他到底是誰他是美國豆類協會在中國的代表 “我不理解，大豆？你告訴我的，你是「傅爾布萊特計畫」學者。” “好吧，如果我告訴你我是做大豆的，你會跟我聊多久呢？” （笑） 我說，“你這個混蛋。”當然 “混蛋” 不是當時我用的詞我說，“你可能會害我被開除。” 然後他說，“我們結婚吧。”（笑）“環遊世界，生一堆孩子。”所以，我們結婚了。 （笑） （鼓掌） 結果，特倫斯．布茉恩．佛利是多麼有趣的人他曾是研究中國的學者之後在他60多歲時取得了中國歷史博士學位他說六種語言他會演奏15種樂器他是認證的飛行員他曾經是一名舊金山的纜車操作員他曾專精於乳豬的飼養產小牛，迪克西蘭 (Dixieland) 爵士樂，黑色電影我們遊遍中國，和世界各地我們的確有了很多小孩我們隨我的工作周遊，而且一切看上去似乎沒有什麼是不可能的 所以，當我們發現癌症時我們也不覺得怪異也沒有相互說些什麼我們曾相信，只要我們夠聰明夠堅強、勇敢夠努力我們就能永遠讓他遠離死亡 剛開始，我們似乎成功了手術後，外科醫生走出來他說了什麼？他說了外科醫生都會說的話：“一切在我們掌控中。”然後，當病理學醫師仔細研究腎癌之後他帶來了失望的消息它是一種很罕見的極其惡性的類型並很有可能幾週內就會死亡。然而，他沒有過世奇蹟般地活了下來他是我們的兒子 “小聯盟” 的教練他為我們的女兒建了遊戲屋同時，我埋頭在網路上尋找專家尋找治療的方法 在癌症復發之前一年過去了癌又回來了另一個死刑出現了這次只有九個月所以我們嘗試了另外一種治療方案，激進，艱險，它讓他羸弱到他必須放棄治療，然而，他依舊活了下來一年又過去了兩年過去了更多的專家我們帶著孩子去義大利我們帶著孩子去澳大利亞 很多年過去了癌症又復發了這次，一種新的治療方法剛剛出現它們異乎尋常，它們是實驗性的。它們用一種新方式攻擊癌症他接受了實驗治療，發揮了效用癌症開始減少這是我們第三次迴避了死亡 所以，現在我問你我是作何感想當那一刻終於到來在另外一個漆黑的深夜大概在午夜和半夜兩點之間？這次是在重症看護病房一個二十多歲的住院醫生我從來沒見過的告訴我，特倫斯將要死去也許就在今晚 當他說 “妳希望我為妳做什麽？”我說了什麼？ 現在有另外一種藥物它更新穎，更有療效他兩週前才開始服用它也許還有希望 所以我說了什麽？ 我說，“儘可能讓他活著."" 但特倫斯在六天後離開了。 我們抗爭，我們掙扎，我們戰勝那是一場令人興奮的戰鬥我隨時都可以再做一次選擇毫不猶豫我們並肩戰鬥，我們並肩生存，那本來可能是七年嚴酷的生活結果是最光輝的七年那也是一場昂貴的戰鬥那是那種戰鬥和那種選擇我們這裡的每個人都會同意消耗了一生的醫療保險和我們所有的醫療保健 對於我，對於我們我們一直在抗爭的前線我先前一直沒有機會對他說我現在幾乎每天都會對他說”那真是一段如同地獄的經歷。“我們從來沒有機會說再見我們從來不認為那就是結局我們一直保持希望 所以我們到底得到了什麽？ 作為一名記者，在特倫斯死後，我寫了一本書，”希望的代價""我寫這本書是因為我想知道爲什麽我那麼做爲什麽他那麼做爲什麽每個在我們周圍的人那麼做 猜猜我發現了什麽？在我發現的事情中，其間一件是：專家們認為，爲什麽我那麼做的理由，是一張紙一個事前的導引幫助親人放棄不合理的選擇然而，我那時有那張紙我們都有它們很有用它們就在我的手裡它們都告訴我們一件事：""在絕望時，靜觀其變""我知道特倫斯的希望就像我知道自己的希望一樣清晰和明確 但我們從來未曾奢求即使那張表達明確的意向書就在我們手裡我們只是不斷重新定義希望我相信我可以讓他遠離死亡我可能會很尷尬那麼說，要不是我看到那麼多人，跟那麼多人交談都認同我的感受就在他去世的前幾天我強而有力地感覺到你可以說是無理地我可以永遠讓他遠離死亡。 專家們該如何解釋我的反應？他們說這是拒絕接受這是一個強硬的詞，不是嗎？然而我要告訴你，拒絕接受，一點也不算不上是強硬來描述那些失去所愛的人要經歷的一切。 我聽到一個醫學專家說，“我們想要做這個那個但是親人拒絕接受親人不願聽取原因他們拒絕接受他們是怎樣堅持治療到最後的？很簡單，他們拒絕接受現實。” 現在，我想這也許不是一種有用的思考方式不只是親人醫學專家也一樣你們在那裡，你們也拒絕現實你們希望幫助，希望解決問題你們希望有所作為你們在你做的所有事情中取得成功然而有一位病人正在死去那一定感覺就是失敗 我親眼所見就在特倫斯死去的前幾天他的腫瘤學家說，“告訴特倫斯，明天會更好。”就在他去世的前幾天 愛拉碧阿克 (Ira Byock)達特茅斯安寧療護的主任說，“你知道的，世界上最好的醫生從沒有成功讓任何一個人長生不死。” 所以，專家們所謂的“拒絕承認”，我稱之為“希望”我想借用我一位從事軟體工作朋友的一句話你只是重新定義拒絕與希望，它成為了人類的特質這不是錯誤 (bug)這是特色 （笑） 所以我們需要更有建設性的思考關於非常普遍，意義深遠且強大的人類情感它是人類的一部分因此我們的系統和思維不是用來適應它的 特倫斯在很久以前的夜裡講了個故事給我聽我相信它也許是我想要去相信它在特倫斯生病期間，我，我們我們要去相信這個故事關於我們共同抗爭的故事放棄抗爭 — 就像什麽感覺呢感覺在放棄 —意味著不僅僅放棄他的生命也在放棄我們的故事我們作為抗爭者的故事我們戰而不敗的故事對於醫生們，是作為治療者的故事 所以我們需要什麽？ 也許我們並不需要一張新紙也許我们需要一個新的故事不是關於放棄抗爭的故事或者絕望的故事而是一個巨大勝利的故事關於一場勇敢的戰爭，並且最終優雅的撤退一個故事闡明了即使是最偉大的將軍也不能打敗每個敵人沒有一個醫生曾成功讓任何人不死沒有一位妻子，不管她多麼努力，曾經阻止過最勇敢、最有智慧、最熱愛的丈夫在那一刻來臨時，遠離死亡。 人們提到過臨終關懷醫院但是我沒有聽進去臨終關懷醫院是為將要死去的人準備的但是特倫斯不會死去結果，他只在臨終關懷醫院停留了四天我相信，大家也明白這是個很典型的結果我們從來沒有說再見因為我們沒有準備好結束 我們有高貴的治療方式病人和醫生一樣但是似乎沒有高貴的死去方式死亡被當做失敗我們有英雄般的故事關於共同抗爭但是我們沒有英雄般的順其自然 所以也許我們需要一個故事關於結束，關於表達再見也許我們的新故事會是關於一個英雄的抗爭，和一個英雄的離去特倫斯熱愛詩詞希臘詩人康斯坦丁‧卡瓦菲斯 (Constantine Cavafy)是我最喜愛的詩人之一所以我要送給你們一兩句他的詩這是關於馬克‧安東尼 (Mark Antony) 的詩你們知道馬克‧安東尼，那個征服者英雄埃及艷后的情人？至少是她的情人之一他是一位很好的將領他贏了所有的戰爭他躲過了所有想要抓他的人但是這次，最終，他來到了亞歷山大城意識到他的失敗人們正在離去，他們在演奏樂器他們在歌唱突然間他知道他被打敗了突然間他明白他被神明放棄了順其自然的時間到了詩人告訴他怎麼做他告訴他怎樣優雅的說再見英雄式的再見 “正如長期準傋正如勇氣它成為了你值得這樣的城池嚴實步往窗前充滿感情而非乞求或者人群的讚美你最後的享受聆聽那些聲音樂隊演奏著優美的樂器和她再見你正在失去的亞歷山大城” 那是意義大於生命的人的告別這樣一個人的告別對於他m所有事情幾乎是所有的事情都是可能的一個讓希望永存的人的告別 這不正是我們所沒有的嗎？我們是如何知曉他們心愛的人常常強烈的，很多時候荒誕的依存於最微薄的希望上？壓倒一切的希望不是拒絕。是人類DNA的一部份也許現在是時間，我們的醫療系統醫生，病人，保險公司，我們開始衡量希望的力量希望不是漏洞它是特色 謝謝 （鼓掌）"
