Talk	en	zh-tw
amanda_burden_how_public_spaces_make_cities_work	"When people think about cities, they tend to think of certain things. They think of buildings and streets and skyscrapers, noisy cabs. But when I think about cities, I think about people. Cities are fundamentally about people, and where people go and where people meet are at the core of what makes a city work. So even more important than buildings in a city are the public spaces in between them. And today, some of the most transformative changes in cities are happening in these public spaces. So I believe that lively, enjoyable public spaces are the key to planning a great city. They are what makes it come alive. But what makes a public space work? What attracts people to successful public spaces, and what is it about unsuccessful places that keeps people away? I thought, if I could answer those questions, I could make a huge contribution to my city. But one of the more wonky things about me is that I am an animal behaviorist, and I use those skills not to study animal behavior but to study how people in cities use city public spaces. One of the first spaces that I studied was this little vest pocket park called Paley Park in midtown Manhattan. This little space became a small phenomenon, and because it had such a profound impact on New Yorkers, it made an enormous impression on me. I studied this park very early on in my career because it happened to have been built by my stepfather, so I knew that places like Paley Park didn't happen by accident. I saw firsthand that they required incredible dedication and enormous attention to detail. But what was it about this space that made it special and drew people to it? Well, I would sit in the park and watch very carefully, and first among other things were the comfortable, movable chairs. People would come in, find their own seat, move it a bit, actually, and then stay a while, and then interestingly, people themselves attracted other people, and ironically, I felt more peaceful if there were other people around. And it was green. This little park provided what New Yorkers crave: comfort and greenery. But my question was, why weren't there more places with greenery and places to sit in the middle of the city where you didn't feel alone, or like a trespasser? Unfortunately, that's not how cities were being designed. So here you see a familiar sight. This is how plazas have been designed for generations. They have that stylish, Spartan look that we often associate with modern architecture, but it's not surprising that people avoid spaces like this. They not only look desolate, they feel downright dangerous. I mean, where would you sit here? What would you do here? But architects love them. They are plinths for their creations. They might tolerate a sculpture or two, but that's about it. And for developers, they are ideal. There's nothing to water, nothing to maintain, and no undesirable people to worry about. But don't you think this is a waste? For me, becoming a city planner meant being able to truly change the city that I lived in and loved. I wanted to be able to create places that would give you the feeling that you got in Paley Park, and not allow developers to build bleak plazas like this. But over the many years, I have learned how hard it is to create successful, meaningful, enjoyable public spaces. As I learned from my stepfather, they certainly do not happen by accident, especially in a city like New York, where public space has to be fought for to begin with, and then for them to be successful, somebody has to think very hard about every detail. Now, open spaces in cities are opportunities. Yes, they are opportunities for commercial investment, but they are also opportunities for the common good of the city, and those two goals are often not aligned with one another, and therein lies the conflict. The first opportunity I had to fight for a great public open space was in the early 1980s, when I was leading a team of planners at a gigantic landfill called Battery Park City in lower Manhattan on the Hudson River. And this sandy wasteland had lain barren for 10 years, and we were told, unless we found a developer in six months, it would go bankrupt. So we came up with a radical, almost insane idea. Instead of building a park as a complement to future development, why don't we reverse that equation and build a small but very high-quality public open space first, and see if that made a difference. So we only could afford to build a two-block section of what would become a mile-long esplanade, so whatever we built had to be perfect. So just to make sure, I insisted that we build a mock-up in wood, at scale, of the railing and the sea wall. And when I sat down on that test bench with sand still swirling all around me, the railing hit exactly at eye level, blocking my view and ruining my experience at the water's edge. So you see, details really do make a difference. But design is not just how something looks, it's how your body feels on that seat in that space, and I believe that successful design always depends on that very individual experience. In this photo, everything looks very finished, but that granite edge, those lights, the back on that bench, the trees in planting, and the many different kinds of places to sit were all little battles that turned this project into a place that people wanted to be. Now, this proved very valuable 20 years later when Michael Bloomberg asked me to be his planning commissioner and put me in charge of shaping the entire city of New York. And he said to me on that very day, he said that New York was projected to grow from eight to nine million people. And he asked me, ""So where are you going to put one million additional New Yorkers?"" Well, I didn't have any idea. Now, you know that New York does place a high value on attracting immigrants, so we were excited about the prospect of growth, but honestly, where were we going to grow in a city that was already built out to its edges and surrounded by water? How were we going to find housing for that many new New Yorkers? And if we couldn't spread out, which was probably a good thing, where could new housing go? And what about cars? Our city couldn't possibly handle any more cars. So what were we going to do? If we couldn't spread out, we had to go up. And if we had to go up, we had to go up in places where you wouldn't need to own a car. So that meant using one of our greatest assets: our transit system. But we had never before thought of how we could make the most of it. So here was the answer to our puzzle. If we were to channel and redirect all new development around transit, we could actually handle that population increase, we thought. And so here was the plan, what we really needed to do: We needed to redo our zoning — and zoning is the city planner's regulatory tool — and basically reshape the entire city, targeting where new development could go and prohibiting any development at all in our car-oriented, suburban-style neighborhoods. Well, this was an unbelievably ambitious idea, ambitious because communities had to approve those plans. So how was I going to get this done? By listening. So I began listening, in fact, thousands of hours of listening just to establish trust. You know, communities can tell whether or not you understand their neighborhoods. It's not something you can just fake. And so I began walking. I can't tell you how many blocks I walked, in sweltering summers, in freezing winters, year after year, just so I could get to understand the DNA of each neighborhood and know what each street felt like. I became an incredibly geeky zoning expert, finding ways that zoning could address communities' concerns. So little by little, neighborhood by neighborhood, block by block, we began to set height limits so that all new development would be predictable and near transit. Over the course of 12 years, we were able to rezone 124 neighborhoods, 40 percent of the city, 12,500 blocks, so that now, 90 percent of all new development of New York is within a 10-minute walk of a subway. In other words, nobody in those new buildings needs to own a car. Well, those rezonings were exhausting and enervating and important, but rezoning was never my mission. You can't see zoning and you can't feel zoning. My mission was always to create great public spaces. So in the areas where we zoned for significant development, I was determined to create places that would make a difference in people's lives. Here you see what was two miles of abandoned, degraded waterfront in the neighborhoods of Greenpoint and Williamsburg in Brooklyn, impossible to get to and impossible to use. Now the zoning here was massive, so I felt an obligation to create magnificent parks on these waterfronts, and I spent an incredible amount of time on every square inch of these plans. I wanted to make sure that there were tree-lined paths from the upland to the water, that there were trees and plantings everywhere, and, of course, lots and lots of places to sit. Honestly, I had no idea how it would turn out. I had to have faith. But I put everything that I had studied and learned into those plans. And then it opened, and I have to tell you, it was incredible. People came from all over the city to be in these parks. I know they changed the lives of the people who live there, but they also changed New Yorkers' whole image of their city. I often come down and watch people get on this little ferry that now runs between the boroughs, and I can't tell you why, but I'm completely moved by the fact that people are using it as if it had always been there. And here is a new park in lower Manhattan. Now, the water's edge in lower Manhattan was a complete mess before 9/11. Wall Street was essentially landlocked because you couldn't get anywhere near this edge. And after 9/11, the city had very little control. But I thought if we went to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and got money to reclaim this two miles of degraded waterfront that it would have an enormous effect on the rebuilding of lower Manhattan. And it did. Lower Manhattan finally has a public waterfront on all three sides. I really love this park. You know, railings have to be higher now, so we put bar seating at the edge, and you can get so close to the water you're practically on it. And see how the railing widens and flattens out so you can lay down your lunch or your laptop. And I love when people come there and look up and they say, ""Wow, there's Brooklyn, and it's so close."" So what's the trick? How do you turn a park into a place that people want to be? Well, it's up to you, not as a city planner but as a human being. You don't tap into your design expertise. You tap into your humanity. I mean, would you want to go there? Would you want to stay there? Can you see into it and out of it? Are there other people there? Does it seem green and friendly? Can you find your very own seat? Well now, all over New York City, there are places where you can find your very own seat. Where there used to be parking spaces, there are now pop-up cafes. Where Broadway traffic used to run, there are now tables and chairs. Where 12 years ago, sidewalk cafes were not allowed, they are now everywhere. But claiming these spaces for public use was not simple, and it's even harder to keep them that way. So now I'm going to tell you a story about a very unusual park called the High Line. The High Line was an elevated railway. (Applause) The High Line was an elevated railway that ran through three neighborhoods on Manhattan's West Side, and when the train stopped running, it became a self-seeded landscape, a kind of a garden in the sky. And when I saw it the first time, honestly, when I went up on that old viaduct, I fell in love the way you fall in love with a person, honestly. And when I was appointed, saving the first two sections of the High Line from demolition became my first priority and my most important project. I knew if there was a day that I didn't worry about the High Line, it would come down. And the High Line, even though it is widely known now and phenomenally popular, it is the most contested public space in the city. You might see a beautiful park, but not everyone does. You know, it's true, commercial interests will always battle against public space. You might say, ""How wonderful it is that more than four million people come from all over the world to visit the High Line."" Well, a developer sees just one thing: customers. Hey, why not take out those plantings and have shops all along the High Line? Wouldn't that be terrific and won't it mean a lot more money for the city? Well no, it would not be terrific. It would be a mall, and not a park. (Applause) And you know what, it might mean more money for the city, but a city has to take the long view, the view for the common good. Most recently, the last section of the High Line, the third section of the High Line, the final section of the High Line, has been pitted against development interests, where some of the city's leading developers are building more than 17 million square feet at the Hudson Yards. And they came to me and proposed that they ""temporarily disassemble"" that third and final section. Perhaps the High Line didn't fit in with their image of a gleaming city of skyscrapers on a hill. Perhaps it was just in their way. But in any case, it took nine months of nonstop daily negotiation to finally get the signed agreement to prohibit its demolition, and that was only two years ago. So you see, no matter how popular and successful a public space may be, it can never be taken for granted. Public spaces always — this is it saved — public spaces always need vigilant champions, not only to claim them at the outset for public use, but to design them for the people that use them, then to maintain them to ensure that they are for everyone, that they are not violated, invaded, abandoned or ignored. If there is any one lesson that I have learned in my life as a city planner, it is that public spaces have power. It's not just the number of people using them, it's the even greater number of people who feel better about their city just knowing that they are there. Public space can change how you live in a city, how you feel about a city, whether you choose one city over another, and public space is one of the most important reasons why you stay in a city. I believe that a successful city is like a fabulous party. People stay because they are having a great time. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	當人們想到城市時，都會想到某些事物，他們會想到建築、街道、摩天大樓和吵雜的計程車。但是當我想到城市，我會想到人。基本上，城市與人有關，大家上哪去、在哪碰面都是位在城市運作的樞紐位置。因此在城市中比建築還重要的是在建築之間的公共空間。現今在城市中變化最大的部分正是發生在這些公共空間中。 因此我相信怡人又宜居的公共空間是設計卓越城市的關鍵。讓城市活躍起來的即是公共空間。那是什麼讓公共空間發揮效用？吸引人們到優良公共空間的是什麼？讓人們遠離不良空間的因素又是什麼？我想如果我能回答那些問題，我就能為所在城市貢獻良多。但有件較怪的事情是我是動物行為學家，我運用這些技能不是為了研究動物行為，而是研究城市中的人類如何使用城市的公共空間。 我最早期研究的空間之一就是這個袖珍型的公園，稱為帕里公園，位在曼哈頓市區。這小巧的空間成了一個小奇蹟，而因為它對紐約人帶來如此深遠的影響，因此這座公園讓我印象十分深刻。在我職涯早期，我便開始研究這座公園，因為建造它的人剛好是我的繼父，因此我知道像帕里公園這樣的地方並非偶然。我直接看到他們需要對細節有無比的投入和關注。但是什麼讓這空間如此特別且吸引人前往？嗯，我會坐在公園裡仔細觀察，最首要的是舒適的活動座椅。人們會進入公園，找到自己的座位，其實會稍微移動，然後停留一陣子，接著有趣的是人們會吸引其他人；而諷刺的是，我會覺得更加平靜，只要身旁還有其他人在。還有綠意。這小巧的公園提供了紐約人所渴求的：舒適與綠色植物。但我的問題是為什麼沒有更多綠色植物，以及能在城市中心安坐的地方，讓你身在其中不覺得孤單，或是像個侵入者？遺憾的是，城市並非依此規劃。 你可以在這裡看見一個熟悉的畫面。這是好幾個世代以來大廈設計的模式。這種流行、簡約的樣貌讓我們常和現代建築聯想在一塊，但不意外的是人們會遠離像這樣的空間。那裡看起來人煙稀少，感覺十分危險。我是說，你在這裡時會坐哪邊？你會在這裡做什麼？但建築師愛那些地方。那是他們的創意基礎。他們也許要容忍一、兩個雕塑，但僅此而已。對開發商來說非常完美。不需要澆水、不用維護，也沒有煩人的討厭鬼。但是你不覺得這是種浪費嗎？對我來說，成為城市規劃師意謂著能真的改變城市，我居住和深愛的城市。我希望打造出的地方也能讓你擁有帕里公園帶來的同樣感受，並且阻止開發商建造像這樣冷冰冰的大廈。但是經過許多年後，我意識到很難創造成功、有意義，又怡人的公共空間。我向繼父學習時，這些事發生並非偶然，尤其在像紐約這樣的城市，需極力爭取才能打造公共空間，為了讓事情圓滿達成，得有人絞盡腦汁思考每一個細節。 城市中的開放空間都是機會。沒錯，它們是商業投資的機會，但是這些機會也都是這座城市的公共利益，那兩項目標常背道而馳，衝突就因此而生。 我首次得爭取的機會是 1980 年代早期的一項大型公共開放空間，當時我帶領了一組規劃團隊，位於名叫砲台公園城的巨型垃圾掩埋場，就在曼哈頓的哈德遜河岸邊。這塊沙質荒地已荒廢了十年之久，有人說，除非我們找到開發商，不然在六個月內這塊地就會完全枯竭了。因此我們想到的是一個極端，近乎瘋狂的想法。與其蓋一座公園讓它成為未來發展的一部分，我們何不翻轉那個機制，改為先建造小巧、高質感的公共開放空間，看看能不能帶來什麼變化。我們只能建設兩個街區的大小，──後來成為一哩長的濱海遊憩區──因此不管我們蓋什麼，都要非常完美才行。為了確定這件事，我堅持要蓋一個木造實體模型，設有欄杆和防波堤。當我坐在測試的長凳上時，身旁還有漫天飛舞的沙子，欄杆剛好位在眼睛的高度，阻礙了我的視線，而且也破壞了我在水岸邊的體驗。 你可以看到細節真的大有影響。但設計不只是關於東西看起來的樣子，也關於你在那個空間裡坐在椅子上的身體感受，我相信成功的設計永遠取決於個人的體驗。在這張照片中，每樣東西看起來都完工了，但是花崗岩的邊緣、那些燈光、長凳的椅背、栽植的樹木，以及在各種地方的座位，都是這些小挑戰讓計畫煥然一新，成為大家都想去的地方。 20 年後，證明了這十分珍貴，當時麥克．彭博邀請我擔任都市計劃局長，讓我負責塑造整座紐約市。在那個特別的日子裡，他告訴我，過去紐約是設計成讓市民從八百萬人發展為九百萬人的地方。他問我：「你打算把那多出來的一百萬名紐約客放在哪裡？」 嗯，我當時毫無頭緒。你知道紐約非常重視吸引外來人口，因此，我們對於發展前景非常興奮，但老實說，我們在哪裡發展這座已經建設到邊緣且被水環繞的城市？我們要怎麼找出新進紐約客的居所？如果我們不能擴展──那大概會是件好事──那我們要把新房子安置何處？那車子怎麼辦？我們的城市不可能再負擔更多車子了。 那我們要怎麼辦？如果我們無法擴展，我們就得向上攀伸。如果我們得向上攀伸，我們就必須在你不需要有車的地方攀伸。因此那代表了要運用我們最重要的資產之一：我們的運輸系統。但我們過去從沒想過我們能如何充分運用運輸系統。因此，這就是我們拼圖的關鍵。如果我們要重新引導所有新的開發繞著運輸進行，我們就能面對人口成長，這是我們的想法。就是這份計畫，我們確實要做的是：我們需要重劃區域，──區域劃分是都市規劃師的管控方式──基本上要重新塑造整座城市，著眼在新開發能往何處發展，全面禁止任何開發，在當前這片以車輛為導向的郊區風格街坊之中。這是種非常驚人的雄心壯志，說雄心壯志，是因為社區必須認可那些計畫。 那我要怎麼完成這件事？透過聆聽。我開始聆聽，其實我聆聽了上千小時，只為了能取得信任。社區可以分辨得出來你是否真的了解他們的街坊。那是假裝不了的事。因此我開始步行。我不知道自己到底走了多少街區，在汗流浹背的夏天、寒風刺骨的冬日，年復一年，只因為如此一來我才能了解每一個街坊的基因，以及每一條街傳達的感受。我變成超神的區域劃分專家，並找到方法讓區域劃分能滿足社區所關心的事務。因此，一點一滴、一個個街坊，一塊塊街區，我們開始限高，如此一來所有新的開發都能在預料之中，並且靠近交通運輸區。這 12 年來，我們重新劃分了124 個街坊，40% 的城市，12,500 塊街區，因此到現在，紐約所有新的開發中有 90%都在步行 10 分鐘能抵達地鐵的位置。換句話說，那些新建築裡的居民都不需要擁有汽車。 嗯，那些重劃區域的事讓人疲憊不堪，而且讓人無力卻又十分重要，但是重劃區域從來就不是我的任務。你看不見區域劃分，無法感受區域劃分。我的任務一向都是打造完美的公共空間。因此，在這些我們劃分為重大發展的區域中，我決定打造的空間是能為人們生活帶來重大改變的地方。你可以在這裡看到兩哩廢棄、破敗的濱水區，位在布魯克林區的綠點與威廉斯堡街坊，根本不可能靠近和使用。這裡的區域劃分規模龐大，因此我有責任在這些濱水區上打造優美的公園，我花了非常多的時間在這些計畫中的每一吋土地上。我希望能確定那裡會有從高地到水域的林蔭步道，到處都有樹木和植栽，當然，還要有很多、很多座位。老實說，我不知道結果會如何。我必須有信心。但我放下所有的事，為了能研究和了解那些計畫。 啟用後，我得告訴你，那非常棒。人們從城市的各個角落來到這些公園裡。我知道那些公園改變了當地居民的生活，但它們也改變了紐約客對所在城市的整體印象。我常來這看著人們搭上這個小渡輪，載著他們在區域間移動，我不知道為什麼，但我深受感動，看到人們搭乘渡輪，就像它一直都在似的。 在曼哈頓下城這裡有座新公園。曼哈頓下城的水岸在 911 之前是一團混亂。基本上華爾街完全被包圍了，因為你完全無法靠近這邊緣。在 911 之後，這座城市缺乏秩序。但是我想，如果我們去曼哈頓下城發展公司拿點經費開墾這兩哩的破敗濱水區，就能大大地影響曼哈頓下城的重建。結果確實如此。曼哈頓下城終於有了公共濱水區，三側都有。 我超愛這座公園。你知道，現在欄杆得再高一點，因此我們在岸邊放了長條座椅，你就能親近水域，幾乎就在水上方。看看欄杆變寬、變平了，如此一來你就可以擺放你的午餐或筆電。我超愛人們來到這裡擡頭一看後驚呼：「哇！那是布魯克林，好近喔！」 那麼，訣竅在哪？要怎麼把公園轉身一變成為人們想去的地方？嗯，全由你決定，不是以城市規劃師，而是以一個人類的身分。你不是運用你的設計專業，而是運用你的人性。我的意思是，你想去那邊嗎？你會想待在那裡嗎？你的視線能一望無際嗎？有其他人在嗎？看起來充滿綠意和友善嗎？你能找到自己的專屬座位嗎？ 現在，在整座紐約市中，你也可以在一些地方找到你的專屬座位了。那裡原本是停車場，現在變成了流動咖啡店。原本百老匯車輛通行的地方，現在都是桌椅了。12 年前，這裡禁止設露天咖啡座，現在到處都是。但是將這些空間取回做為公用並非易事，而維持公用更是難上加難。 讓我告訴你一個故事，是關於名為「空中花園」的非凡之地。空中花園原本是高架鐵路。（掌聲）空中花園原本是高架鐵路，貫穿三個街區，在曼哈頓西側通行，當火車停駛後，這塊地變成了自行生長的荒地，就像天空中的花園。我第一次見到這座公園時，老實說，當我踏上那老舊的高架橋時，感覺就像和某人陷入熱戀一樣，千真萬確。在我上任後，讓空中花園前兩區免於拆除的命運就成了我的首要任務，以及我最重要的計畫。我知道只要有一天我不擔心空中花園，它就會倒塌。空中花園，即使現在已廣為人知且蔚為風潮，它仍是城市中最搶手的公共空間。也許你看見的是一座美麗花園，但並非每個人都有同感。你知道，事實是商業利益永遠會與公共空間為敵。你也許會說：「超過四百萬人從世界各地來參觀空中花園是多麼美好的事呀！」嗯，開發商只看到一件事：顧客。嘿，何不移走那些植栽，沿著空中花園開些商店？那不是超讚的嗎？而且還能幫城市賺很多錢吧？錯了，一點也不讚。那會變成購物中心，而且不是公園。（掌聲）你知道嗎？那也許代表了幫城市賺很多錢，但是城市要有遠見，公共利益的遠見。最近，空中花園的最後一區，空中花園的第三區，空中花園的最後一區，已經和發展利益對立，部分城市的主要開發商都建設超過 1700 萬平方公尺的哈德遜園區 (Hudson Yards)。他們來找我，提到他們「暫時拆除」那第三區，也就是最後一區。也許空中花園不符合他們印象中在山坡上閃亮的摩天大樓城市。也許那只是他們的想像。但是無論如何，都需要歷經九個月每日不停的協商，才能最後簽定協議，明文禁止拆除，而那只是兩年前的事。 你看，不管一個公共空間可以有多受歡迎又多成功，那都不是理所當然。公共空間永遠──這裡被拯救了──公共空間永遠都需要有正義使者，不只是在一開始為了公共使用而爭取所有權，而要為使用者而設計，之後維護它們來確保是人人共享，不可侵害、侵犯、放棄或忽視。如果問我在擔任城市規劃師時學到了什麼寶貴的一課，那就是公共空間擁有權力。那不只是和使用的人有關，也和更多對城市感覺變好的人有關，這關乎於他們認知到自己身在其中。公共空間能改變你在城市的生活方式，你對城市的感受，不管你選擇哪一個城市，公共空間都是你留在這座城市的重要因素之一。 我相信一座成功的城市就像是一場超讚的舞會。人們會留下來是因為他們擁有了美好時光。 謝謝。 （掌聲）謝謝。（掌聲）
