Talk	en	zh-tw
ameenah_gurib_fakim_humble_plants_that_hide_surprising_secrets	You know, it's a big privilege for me to be working in one of the biodiversity hotspots in the world: the Mascarene Islands in the Indian Ocean. These islands — Mauritius, Rodrigues, and Réunion — along with the island of Madagascar, they are blessed with unique plants found nowhere else in the world. And today I will tell you  about five of them and their particular features and why these plants are so unique. Take a look at this plant. I call it benjoin in the local vernacular, and the botanical name  is Terminalia bentzoe, subspecies bentzoe. This subspecies is endemic to Mauritius, and its particular feature is its heterophylly. What do I mean by heterophylly? It's that the same plant has got leaves that are different shapes and sizes. Now, these plants have evolved very far away from the mainland, and within specific ecosystems. Often, these particular features have evolved as a response to the threat presented by the local fauna, in this case, grazing tortoises. Tortoises are known to have poor eyesight, and as such, they tend to avoid the plants they don't recognize. So this evolutionary  foil safeguards the plant against these rather cute animals, and protects it and of course  ensures its survival. Now the question you're  probably asking yourself is, why is she telling us all these stories? The reason for that is that we tend to overlook the diversity and the variety of the natural world. These particular habitats are unique and they are host to a whole lot of plants. We don't realize how valuable and how precious these resources are, and yet, through our insouciance, we keep on destroying them. We're all familiar with the macro impact of urbanization, climate change, resource exploitation, but when that one last plant — or animal for that matter — when that very last specimen has disappeared from the face of this Earth, we would have lost an entire subset of the Earth's biology, and with it, important plants  with medicinal potential or which could have ingredients that would speak to the cosmetic, nutrition, pharma, and even the ethno-veterinary sectors, be gone forever. And here we have a very prime example of the iconic dodo, which comes from Mauritius, and, of course, we know is  now a symbol of extinction. We know plants have a  fundamental role to play. Well, first of all, they feed us and they also give us  the oxygen we breathe, but plants are also the source of important, biologically active ingredients that we should be studying very carefully, because human societies over the millennia, they have developed important knowledge, cultural traditions, and important plant-based medicinal resources. Here's a data point: 1.4 percent of the entire land surface is home to 40 percent of the species of higher plants, 35 percent of the species of vertebrates, and this 1.4 percent represents the 25 biodiversity hotspots in the world, and this 1.4 percent of the entire land surface already provides for 35 percent of the ecosystem services that vulnerable people depend on. And as you can see, the island of Mauritius where I work and where I live, belongs to one such biodiversity hotspot, and I study the unique plants on the island for their  biomedical applications. Now, let's go back again to that first plant I showed you, the one, of course, with  different-shaped leaves and different sizes, Terminalia bentzoe, subspecies bentzoe, a plant only found in Mauritius. Now, the local people, they used a decoction of the leaves against infectious diseases. Now our work, that is, the scientific validation of  this traditional information, has shown that precisely that leaf extract shows activity, potent activity, against a wide range of bacteria that could be pathogenic to humans. Now, could this plant be the answer to antibiotic resistance? You know, antibiotic resistance is proving to be a big challenge globally. While we may not be sure, one thing is certain: we will not want this plant to disappear. But the harsh reality is that this particular plant is in fact considered to be vulnerable in its natural habitat. This brings me to another example. This bush here is known as baume de l'ile plate in the local vernacular. The botanical name is Psiadia arguta. It's a plant which is rare, which is endemic to Mauritius. It used to grow on the mainland, but through the sheer  pressures of urbanization has been pushed out of the mainland, and we've managed to bring it back from the brink of extinction by developing in vitro plants which are now growing in the wild. Now, one thing I must  point out straightaway is that not all plants can be developed in vitro. While we humans, we are  happy in our comfort zone, these plants also need their ecosystem to be preserved, and they don't react — endemic plants don't react to very harsh  changes in their ecosystem, and yet we know what are the challenges that climate change, for example, is posing to these plants. Now, the local people again use the leaves in traditional medicine against respiratory problems. Now, our preliminary labwork on the leaf extract has shown that precisely these  leaves contain ingredients that are very close,  in terms of structures, chemical structures, to those medicines which are sold in the chemist's shop against asthma. So who knows what humanity will benefit from should this plant decide  to reveal all its secrets. Now, I come from the developing world where we are forever being  challenged with this issue of population explosion. Africa is the continent  which is getting younger, and whenever one talks  about population explosion, one talks about the issue of food security as being the other side of the same coin. Now this plant here, the baobab, could be part of the answer. It's an underutilized, neglected food plant. It defines the landscape of West Africa, where it is known as the tree of life, and later on I will tell you why the Africans consider it to be the tree of life. Now interestingly, there are many legends which are associated with this plant. Because of its sheer size, it was meant to be lording over lesser plants, so God didn't like this arrogance, uprooted it, and planted it upside down, hence its particular shape. And if you look at this tree again within the African context, in West Africa, it's known  as the palaver tree, because it performs great social functions. Now if you have a problem in the community, meeting under the palaver tree with the chiefs or the tribesmen would be synonymous to trying to find a solution to that particular problem, and also to reinforce trust and respect among members of the community. From the scientific point of view, there are eight species of baobab in the world. There's one from Africa, one from Australia, and six are endemic to the island of Madagascar. The one I have showed you is the one from Africa, Adansonia digitata. Now, the flower, this  beautiful white flower, it opens at night, is pollinated by bats, and it gives rise to the fruit which is curiously known as the monkey apple. The monkeys are not stupid animals. They know what's good for them. Now, if you open the fruit of the baobab, you'll see a white, floury pulp, which is very rich in nutrients and has got protein, more protein than in human milk. Yes, you heard right: more protein than in human milk. And this is one of the reasons why the nutrition companies of this world, they are looking for this fruit to provide what we know as reinforced food. The seeds give an oil, a very stable oil which is sought after  by the cosmetic industry to give to produce body lotions, for example. And if you look at the trunk, the trunk, of course, safeguards water, which is often harvested by a thirsty traveler, and the leaves are used in traditional medicine against infectious disease. Now, you can see now why the Africans consider it to be the tree of life. It's a complete plant, and in fact, the sheer size of these trees is hiding a massive potential, not only for the pharma, nutrition, and the cosmetic industry. What I have showed you here is only the species from Africa, Adansonia digitata. We have six species yet in Madagascar, and we don't know what  is the potential of this plant, but one thing we know is that the flora is considered to be  threatened with extinction. Let me take you to Africa again, and introduce you to one of my very favorite, the resurrection plant. Now here you'll find that even Jesus has competition. (Laughter) Now, this plant here has developed remarkable tolerance to drought, which enables it to withstand up to 98 percent dehydration  over the period of a year without damage, and yet it can regenerate  itself almost completely overnight, over 24 hours, and flower. Now, us human beings, we're always on the lookout for the elixir of youth. We don't want to get old, and rightly so. Why should we, especially if you can afford it? And this gives you an indication of what the plant looks like before. Now, if you are an inexperienced gardener, the first thing you'll do  when you visit the garden is to uproot this plant because it's dead. But if you water it, this is what you get. Absolutely amazing. Now, if you look at our aging process, the aging process is in fact the loss of water from the upper epidermis, resulting in wrinkling as we know it, especially women, we are so conscious of this. And this plant, in fact, is giving  the cosmetic chemists very important ingredients that are actually finding ways to slow down the aging process and at the same time reinforce the cells against the onslaught of environmental toxins. Now, these four examples I have just given you are just a very tiny reminder as to how our health and our survival are closely linked to the health and the resilience of our ecosystem, and why we should be very careful about preserving biodiversity. Every time a forest is cut down, every time a marsh is filled in, it is a potential lab that goes with it, and which we will never, ever recover. And I know what I'm talking about, coming from Mauritius and missing the dodo. Let me finish with just one last example. Conservation issues are normally guided towards rare, endemic plants, but what we call exotic plants, that is, the ones which grow in many different habitats across the world, they also need to be considered. You know why? Because the environment plays a very important role in modifying the composition of that plant. So let's take a look at this plant here, Centella asiatica. It's a weed. We call it a weed. Now, Centella asiatica  grows across the world in many different habitats —  in Africa, in Asia — and this plant has been instrumental in providing a solution  to that dreadful disease called leprosy in Madagascar in the 1940s. Now, while Centella  grows across the world — in Africa, in Asia —  the best quality Centella comes from Madagascar, because that Centella contains the three vital ingredients which are sought after by the pharma and the cosmetic companies. And the cosmetic companies  are already using it to make regenerating cream. Now, there is an ancient saying that for every disease known to mankind, there is a plant to cure it. Now, you may not  believe in ancient sayings. You may think they're obsolete now that our science and  technology are so powerful. So you may look on Centella as being an insignificant, humble weed, which, if destroyed, won't be missed. But you know, there is no such thing as a weed. It's a plant. It's a living biological lab that may well have answers to the question that we may have, but we have to ensure that it has the right to live. Thank you. (Applause)	在世界上生物多樣性最豐富的地方工作是我極大的榮幸這個地方位於印度洋的馬斯克林群島這些群島包括：模里西斯、羅德里格斯島和留尼旺群島以及馬達加斯加島這些島嶼有著獨一無二的植物你在其他地方不可能找得到今天我將向你們介紹其中五種植物包括它們特殊的特徵以及它們如此特別的原因 我們先來看看這種植物當地人稱它為安息香它的植物學名叫欖仁葉是欖仁樹屬的次級種類這種植物為模里西斯特有植物而它的特徵就是它的異形葉性什麼是異形葉性呢？就是指說在同一株植物中有許多不同形狀和大小的葉子如今這些植物都經過進化已經遠離了大陸而且只存在於特定的生態系中通常這些特徵都進化為一種激烈反應以此應對當地動物的威脅在這裡指的就是食草性的陸龜陸龜的視力很差所以它們會盡量避免那些它們無法辨認的植物所以這種進化的葉子保護植物防止它們被這類動物吃掉也就更加確保其存活率 現在你心裡的疑問來了她為何要說這些故事呢？原因是，我們常常忽略自然世界中的多樣性這些自然棲息地獨一無二它們是無數植物賴以生長的家我們沒有意識到這些資源是多麼有價值且珍貴我們甚至仍毫不在乎地繼續破壞它們我們都非常熟悉城市化所帶來的巨大衝擊氣候變遷、資源掠奪但唯有當最後一種植物或是最後一種動物最後一個樣本從地球上消失以後我們就真的失去一個完整的地球生物體系在這套體系中有著潛在醫療價值的重要植物或是植物中的成分本來可以用於化妝品營養品、製藥品甚至是獸醫用的方針都將消失而永不復見這裡有個典型的例子具有代表性的模里西斯渡渡鳥當然，現在牠已是一個物種滅絕的象徵 我們都知道植物扮演著一個很重要的角色首先，它是我們的食物它們也提供我們呼吸的氧氣而植物同時也提供很多重要且具有生物活性的成分因此值得我們仔細研究因為人類社會經過幾千年已經發展出許多重要的知識不同的文化傳統以及重要醫療用的植物資源數據顯示全球地表上的 1.4%生長著 40% 的高等植物35% 的脊椎動物而這 1.4% 的土地代表著世界上 25 個生物多樣性最豐富的地方而全球陸地上的 1.4%提供了 35%我們脆弱人類最賴以生存的生態系統服務就如同你們所看到的模里西斯群島就是我工作和生活的地方這裡正屬於物種大熔爐的地方之一而我研究的正是島上這些獨一無二的植物作為生物醫療方面的應用 現在，讓我們回去看我給你們看的第一種植物這個有著不同形狀和大小的葉子植物欖仁葉屬於欖仁樹屬的次級種類是模里西斯所獨有的植物現在，模里西斯的當地居民他們用這種葉子煎藥以治療感染疾病而我們的工作就是透過科學的方法來驗證這種傳統醫療方式以恰好證明這些葉子的提取物證明他們的活性可以用來對付許多使人類致病的細菌現在，這種植物能解決抗生素耐藥性的問題嗎？抗生素耐藥性正是一個全球所面臨的巨大挑戰儘管我們還不確定但有一點是無庸置疑的我們一定不能讓這些植物消失但殘酷的事實是實際上這種特定的植物在它的自然原生棲息地中是非常脆弱的 我們來看另外一個例子這些灌木被當地人稱為小島香油膏植物學名叫做菊科毛國木菊這種植物非常稀少是模里西斯特有的植物它以前生長在大陸上但是由於城市化帶來的種種壓力在大陸上已經再也見不到它了而我們設法使它從滅絕的邊緣中死灰復燃透過人工培育讓它重新在野外開始生長但我必須說清楚一點那就是並不是所有的植物都能透過人工培育重新復育正如同我們人類快樂地待在舒適圈一樣這些植物也需要合適的生態環境而本地植物往往對生態環境的劇烈變化反應遲鈍然而我們並不知道除了氣候變遷植物的生存環境還面臨了那些挑戰現在，當地居民依然用這些樹葉根據最傳統醫藥的方式來治療呼吸道的疾病我們對葉子的提取物進行研究結果初步顯示這些葉子的成分從化學結構式來看和藥店裡面所賣的那些抗氣喘的藥是非常相近的所以沒有人知道人類會從這些植物當中獲得多少的益處 我來自發展中國家我們一直面臨著人口爆炸的挑戰非洲人口正變得越來越多每當人們提到人口爆炸的時候總會提到食物短缺的問題就像是一枚硬幣的兩面一樣這個植物名稱叫做猴麵包樹也許會是解決方案它被忽視且未被完全開發利用它構成了西非的風景線被視為是生命之樹稍後我會解釋非洲人稱之為生命之樹的原因很多很有趣的傳奇關於這種植物的故事主要是因為它的巨大體型使它稱霸其他比它小的植物這種狂妄惹惱了上帝因此將它連根拔起以倒頭栽的方式種植它也就形成了它獨特的形狀而若我們以非洲的角度來看這種樹在西非，它被稱為「談判樹」因為它具有重要的社交功能如果部落裡面有什麼麻煩他們就會和酋長或族人在談判樹下碰面協商就如同他們正一起努力去解決那個特定的問題這麼做也更加強化部落之間彼此的信任和尊重從科學的角度來看世界上有八種不同種類的猴麵包樹一種來自非洲一種來自澳洲另外六種則是馬達加斯加島的地方特有種我給你們看的這種是來自非洲的叫做非洲猴麵包樹現在這種漂亮的白花它在夜晚綻放，經由蝙蝠受粉最後結出果實而很有創意地被稱為猴蘋果猴子非常聰明牠們知道這種果實很好吃如果把猴麵包樹的果實打開就會看到白色粉狀的果肉這些果肉非常具有營養價值且含有大量蛋白質甚至比人奶所含的蛋白質更豐富是的，你沒有聽錯比人奶所含的蛋白質更豐富這也是為什麼世界上那些做營養品的公司都積極尋找以獲取這類果實以生產所謂的增強性食品它的種子還能產出一種穩定的油這種油可以使用在化妝產業來生產如身體乳液之類的產品再來看看它的樹幹這種樹幹可以保持水分口渴的旅人常用它來解渴它的樹葉也能被傳統藥物使用來治療感染疾病現在你們可以明白為什麼非洲人稱它為生命之樹了吧它是一種完整的植物而事實上光是這些樹的體型就蘊藏著極大的開發潛力不僅僅在醫療、營養與化妝產業我剛才所介紹給你們的是非洲特有品種中的一種：非洲猴麵包樹在馬達加斯加島上還有另外六種猴麵包樹我們還不知道這種植物的潛力但有一點是確定的那就是這種植物正面臨滅絕 讓我們再次回到非洲來談我最喜歡的一種植物：復活花你們會發現就連會復活的耶穌也有競爭對手了(笑聲)現在這種植物已經進化對乾旱有非常強大的忍受力這使得它在一年中可以承受高達 98% 的脫水程度而不至於受到破壞而且它還能在一夜間，24 小時後幾乎完全地再生並開花現今我們人類一直在尋找可以永保青春的靈丹的確，誰都不想變老如果可以永保青春，為何要變老呢這個是脫水的時候這株植物的樣子如果是你是新手園丁的話當走進花園看到這樣子的植物時第一反應大概是它已經死了趕緊拔了它但是如果幫它澆點水你就會看到這樣的變化非常神奇現在我們來研究我們衰老的過程其實就是一個上層表皮脫水的過程導致皺紋產生我們都知道，特別是女性我們女生都非常在意皺紋而事實上這種植物給予化妝品化學家非常重要的原料從中正在尋找能延緩老化過程的方法並且同時增強細胞抵抗外部環境的毒素 以上我所介紹的四個例子還僅僅是一個極小的警示它們提醒著我們我們的健康和生存是如何與我們生態系的健康和韌性緊密相連的也提醒著我們保護生物多樣性的重要性每當一片森林被砍伐每當一個濕地被填滿一個潛在的研究領域也就此消失而我們將再也無法挽回就如同我所提到模里西斯島所消失的渡渡鳥一樣 在結束之前我再舉一個例子環境保護議題通常都是針對稀有、當地特有的物種但那些外來物種也就是分布在世界各地不同的物種它們同樣值得被保護為什麼呢？因為環境在改變這種植物成分的過程中扮演著非常重要的角色 現在我們來看這種植物崩大碗，它是一種野草我們稱之為積雪草它們分布在世界各地不同的地區，比如非洲、亞洲這種植物在 1940 年代提供了一種解決方案治療馬達加斯加島上致命的痲瘋病儘管積雪草遍布在世界各地在非洲與亞洲都有但品質最好的品種還是來自馬達加斯加因為那種積雪草含有三種重要成分各大醫藥與化妝品公司都在竭力獲取它們一些化妝品公司已經在使用它來製造護膚霜 古人有云世間百病皆有植物作為解藥也許你們可能不相信這些古語也許覺得它們是已經過時況且我們當今的科技已經如此發達所以你們可能會把積雪草當成一種無關緊要、低賤的雜草即使它滅絕了也無所謂但你必須知道，世上其實沒有野草一說它不僅是一株植物它還是一個活體生物研究實驗室在這個實驗室我們可能會找到解決我們各種問題的答案但是首先，我們必須確保它們擁有生存的權利 謝謝 (掌聲)
