Talk	en	zh-tw
amit_sood_building_a_museum_of_museums_on_the_web	"My name is Amit. And 18 months ago, I had another job at Google, and I pitched this idea of doing something with museums and art to my boss who's actually here, and she allowed me to do it. And it took 18 months. A lot of fun, negotiations and stories, I can tell you, with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries. But I'm going to focus on the demo. There are a lot of stories about why we did this. I think my personal story is explained very simply on the slide, and it's access. And I grew up in India. I had a great education — I'm not complaining — but I didn't have access to a lot of these museums and these artworks. And so when I started traveling and going to these museums, I started learning a lot. And while working at Google, I tried to put this desire to make it more accessible with technology together. So we formed a team, a great team of people, and we started doing this. I'm going to probably get into the demo and then tell you a couple of the interesting things we've had since launch. So, simple: you come to GoogleArtProject.com. You look around at all these museums here. You've got the Uffizi, you've got the MoMA, the Hermitage, the Rijks, the Van Gogh. I'm going to actually get to one of my favorites, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Two ways of going in — very simple. Click and, bang, you're in this museum. It doesn't matter where you are — Bombay, Mexico, it doesn't really matter. You move around, you have fun. You want to navigate around the museum? Open the plan up, and, in one click, jump. You're in there, you want to go to the end of the corridor. Keep going. Have fun. Explore. (Applause) Thanks. I haven't come to the best part. (Laughter) So now I'm in front of one of my favorite paintings, ""The Harvesters"" by Pieter Bruegel at the Met. I see this plus sign. If the museum has given us the image, you click on it. Now this is one of the images. So this is all of the meta-data information. For those of you who are truly interested in art, you can click this — but I'm going to click this off right now. And this is one of these images that we captured in what we call gigapixel technology. So this image, for example, has close to, I think, around 10 billion pixels. And I get a lot of people asking me: ""What do you get for 10 billion pixels?"" So I'm going to try and show you what you really get for 10 billion pixels. You can zoom around very simply. You see some fun stuff happening here. I love this guy; his expression is priceless. But then you really want to go deep. And so I started playing around, and I found something going on over here. And I was like, ""Hold on. That sounds interesting."" Went in, and I started noticing that these kids were actually beating something. I did a little research, spoke to a couple of my contacts at the Met, and actually found out that this is a game called squall, which involves beating a goose with a stick on Shrove Tuesday. And apparently it was quite popular. I don't know why they did it, but I learned something about it. Now just to get really deep in, you can really get to the cracks. Now just to give you some perspective, I'm going to zoom out so you really see what you get. Here is where we were, and this is the painting. (Applause) The best is yet to come — so in a second. So now let's just quickly jump into the MoMA, again in New York. So another one of my favorites, ""The Starry Night."" Now the example I showed you was all about finding details. But what if you want to see brush strokes? And what if you want to see how Van Gogh actually created this masterpiece? You zoom in. You really go in. I'm going to go to one of my favorite parts in this painting, and I'm really going to get to the cracks. This is ""The Starry Night,"" I think, never seen like this before. I'm going to show you my other favorite feature. There's a lot of other stuff here, but I don't have time. This is the real cool part. It's called Collections. Any one of you, anybody — doesn't matter if you're rich, if you're poor, if you have a fancy house — doesn't matter. You can go and create your own museum online — create your own collection across all these images. Very simply, you go in — and I've created this, called The Power of Zoom — you can just zoom around. This is ""The Ambassadors,"" based in the National Gallery. You can annotate the stuff, send it to your friends and really get a conversation going about what you're feeling when you go through these masterpieces. So I think, in conclusion, for me, the main thing is that all the amazing stuff here does not really come from Google. It doesn't, in my opinion, even come from the museums. I probably shouldn't say that. It really comes from these artists. And that's been my humbling experience in this. I mean, I hope in this digital medium that we do justice to their artwork and represent it properly online. And the biggest question I get asked nowadays is, ""Did you do this to replicate the experience of going to a museum?"" And the answer is no. It's to supplement the experience. And that's it. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我叫做Amit18個月前，我在Google有另一份工作我向我的上司提了一個想法我想做些和藝術和博物館有關的事她今天也在場然後她同意了歷時18個月我跟你們說，中間發生很多有趣的協商和故事走了9個國家，接觸了17間非常有意思的博物館但我現在只會介紹示範給你們看我們會這麼做有很多原因 我個人的原因在投影片上就寫得很清楚了就是要如何進去(博物館去看藝術作品)我在印度長大我接受良好的教育 —我可不是在抱怨—但我沒有很多參觀這些博物和藝術品的機會所以當我去旅行，進到這些博物館我學到很多在Google工作時我有了一個想法希望可以透過科技讓大家可以進到博物館所以我們組了一個團隊，有很多很棒的人我們開始著手做這件事 我示範給你們看然後跟你們說些從網站上線後發生的趣事很簡單，你到GoogleArtProject.com你能在這裡看到這些博物館你會看到烏菲茲博物館，還有紐約現代藝術博物館聖彼得堡艾米塔及博物館，阿姆斯特丹美術館，梵谷博物館我現在要到我最喜歡的博物館就是紐約大都會美術博物館有兩種進入的方法，非常簡單點擊，砰，你進到博物館裡了不論你人在何處孟買，墨西哥，都無所謂你到處轉轉，你盡情享受你想要在博物館裡按平面圖走一圈你就把平面圖打開點擊一下，然後進入你就進去了，你想走到走廊盡頭就繼續走，開心玩玩探索一番 (掌聲) 謝謝，我還沒講到精彩的部分 (笑聲) 現在我來到我最喜歡的一幅作品前面是老彼得‧布勒哲爾畫的《收割者》我看見這個+的符號如果博物館給我們作品的圖片，你點擊它這是其中的一幅圖這裡有全部的作品資訊如果你真的對這個藝術品有興趣你可以點擊這裡， 但現在我要先把它關掉這是一幅我們運用十億像素攝影所拍攝的照片所以，這幅照片，可以說有將近100億像素很多人問我「你為何用100億像素拍照？」我現在就告訴你為什麼要用這麼高的像素拍攝你可以簡單地縮放你可以在這裡看到一些有趣的事物我喜歡這個人，他的表情相當經典 但是你真的想要進一步看這幅畫所以我就到處看看我注意到這裡有些事我想「等等， 這事兒挺有趣的。」再放大一點，我發現這些孩子們其實是在敲打東西我研究了一下，跟博物館的幾個連絡人聊了一下發現原來這是個遊戲叫做[原文不明]是在禮拜二的懺悔日用棍子打鵝的一種遊戲很顯然這在當時挺盛行的我不知道為什麼當時的人這麼做但我學到了這件事現在再放更大些，你可以看見裂痕了現在讓我你們看一下遠景我現在縮小畫面，你可以看到全部這是我們原先的位置這是那幅畫 (掌聲) 這還不是最精彩的—等一下現在讓我們立刻進入紐約現代藝術博物館我的另一個最愛《星空》我剛才給你們介紹的例子全是關於細節但如果你想看筆觸呢？如果你想看梵谷到底是怎樣創作出這幅傑作你放大，真的放大我要移到這幅畫我最喜歡的部分我真的可以看到裂痕這是《星空》我從沒有這樣欣賞過它 我要跟你們介紹另一個我喜歡的功能這裡的功能很多，但我沒時間一一介紹這是相當酷的一項功能，叫收藏你們任何人，不管是誰無論你是富裕還是貧窮無論你是否擁有一棟豪華的房子—都無所謂你可以在網路上建立你自己的網路博物館把這些作品中收進自己的收藏中非常簡單，你進入我把這功能叫做變焦的力量你可以隨意放大縮小這是國家藝術館中《使節》你可以寫下些註腳，寄給你的朋友們然後展開討論探討你欣賞這些大師名作的感想 總結一下對我而言，最重要是這些精湛的藝術品不是來自Google我個人甚至認為也不是來自這些博物館我也許不應該這樣說但這些作品是來自於這些藝術家這是我在這個過程中所感受到的謙卑我的意思是，我希望透過數位媒體能夠公平地對待他們的藝術作品並且妥善地在網路上展示最近我最常被問的問題是「你這樣做是想複製去參觀博物館的經驗嗎？」我回答不是這是種額外的體驗 大概是如此，謝謝各位 (掌聲) 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
