Talk	en	zh-tw
amit_sood_every_piece_of_art_you_ve_ever_wanted_to_see_up_close_and_searchable	"The world is filled with incredible objects and rich cultural heritage. And when we get access to them, we are blown away, we fall in love. But most of the time, the world's population is living without real access to arts and culture. What might the connections be when we start exploring our heritage, the beautiful locations and the art in this world? Before we get started in this presentation, I just want to take care of a few housekeeping points. First, I am no expert in art or culture. I fell into this by mistake, but I'm loving it. Secondly, all of what I'm going to show you belongs to the amazing museums, archives and foundations that we partner with. None of this belongs to Google. And finally, what you see behind me is available right now on your mobile phones, on your laptops. This is our current platform, where you can explore thousands of museums and objects at your fingertips, in extremely high-definition detail. The diversity of the content is what's amazing. If we just had European paintings, if we just had modern art, I think it gets a bit boring. For example, this month, we launched the ""Black History"" channel with 82 curated exhibitions, which talk about arts and culture in that community. We also have some amazing objects from Japan, centered around craftsmanship, called ""Made in Japan."" And one of my favorite exhibitions, which actually is the idea of my talk, is — I didn't expect to become a fan of Japanese dolls. But I am, thanks to this exhibition, that has really taught me about the craftsmanship behind the soul of a Japanese doll. Trust me, it's very exciting. Take my word for it. So, moving on swiftly. One quick thing I wanted to showcase in this platform, which you can share with your kids and your friends right now, is you can travel to all these amazing institutions virtually, as well. One of our recent ideas was with The Guggenheim Museum in New York, where you can get a taste of what it might feel like to actually be there. You can go to the ground floor and obviously, most of you, I assume, have been there. And you can see the architectural masterpiece that it is. But imagine this accessibility for a kid in Bombay who's studying architecture, who hasn't had a chance to go to The Guggenheim as yet. You can obviously look at objects in the Guggenheim Museum, you can obviously get into them and so on and so forth. There's a lot of information here. But this is not the purpose of my talk today. This exists right now. What we now have are the building blocks to a very exciting future, when it comes to arts and culture and accessibility to arts and culture. So I am joined today onstage by my good friend and artist in residence at our office in Paris, Cyril Diagne, who is the professor of interactive design at ECAL University in Lausanne, Switzerland. What Cyril and our team of engineers have been doing is trying to find these connections and visualize a few of these. So I'm going to go quite quick now. This object you see behind me — oh, just clarification: Always, seeing the real thing is better. In case people think I'm trying to replicate the real thing. So, moving on. This object you see behind me is the Venus of Berekhat Ram. It's one of the oldest objects in the world, found in the Golan Heights around 233,000 years ago, and currently residing at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem. It is also one of the oldest objects on our platform. So let's zoom. We start from this one object. What if we zoomed out and actually tried to experience our own cultural big bang? What might that look like? This is what we deal with on a daily basis at the Cultural Institute — over six million cultural artifacts curated and given to us by institutions, to actually make these connections. You can travel through time, you can understand more about our society through these. You can look at it from the perspective of our planet, and try to see how it might look without borders, if we just organized art and culture. We can also then plot it by time, which obviously, for the data geek in me, is very fascinating. You can spend hours looking at every decade and the contributions in that decade and in those years for art, history and cultures. We would love to spend hours showing you each and every decade, but we don't have the time right now. So you can go on your phone and actually do it yourself. (Applause) But if you don't mind and can hold your applause till later, I don't want to run out of time, because I want to show you a lot of cool stuff. So, just very quickly: you can move on from here to another very interesting idea. Beyond the pretty picture, beyond the nice visualization, what is the purpose, how is this useful? This next idea comes from discussions with curators that we've been having at museums, who, by the way, I've fallen in love with, because they dedicate their whole life to try to tell these stories. One of the curators told me, ""Amit, what would it be like if you could create a virtual curator's table where all these six million objects are displayed in a way for us to look at the connections between them?"" You can spend a lot of time, trust me, looking at different objects and understanding where they come from. It's a crazy Matrix experience. (Laughter) Just moving on, let's take the world-famous Vincent Van Gogh, who is very well-represented on this platform. Thanks to the diversity of the institutions we have, we have over 211 high-definition, amazing artworks by this artist, now organized in one beautiful view. And as it resolves, and as Cyril goes deeper, you can see all the self-portraits, you can see still life. But I just wanted to highlight one very quick example, which is very timely: ""The Bedroom."" This is an artwork where three copies exist — one at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, one at the Orsay in Paris and one at the Art Institute of Chicago, which, actually, currently is hosting a reunion of all three artworks physically, I think only for the second time ever. But, it is united digitally and virtually for anybody to look at in a very different way, and you won't get pushed in the line in the crowd. So let's take you and let's travel through ""The Bedroom"" very quickly, so you can experience what we are doing for every single object. We want the image to speak as much as it can on a digital platform. And all you need is an internet connection and a computer (Applause) And, Cyril, if you can go deeper, quickly. I'm sorry, this is all live, so you have to give Cyril a little bit of — and this is available for every object: modern art, contemporary art, Renaissance — you name it, even sculpture. Sometimes, you don't know what can attract you to an artwork or to a museum or to a cultural discovery. So for me, personally, it was quite a challenge because when I decided to make this my full-time job at Google, my mother was not very supportive. I love my mother, but she thought I was wasting my life with this museum stuff. And for her, a museum is what you do when you go on vacation and you tick-mark and it's over, right? And it took around four and a half years for me to convince my lovely Indian mother that actually, this is worthwhile. And the way I did it was, I realized one day that she loves gold. So I started showing her all objects that have the material gold in them. And the first thing my mom asks me is, ""How can we buy these?"" (Laughter) And obviously, my salary is not that high, so I was like, ""We can't actually do that, mom. But you can explore them virtually."" And so now my mom — every time I meet her, she asks me, ""Any more gold, any more silver in your project? Can you show me?"" And that's the idea I'm trying to illustrate. It does not matter how you get in, as long as you get in. Once you get in, you're hooked. Moving on from here very quickly, there is kind of a playful idea, actually, to illustrate the point of access, and I'm going to go quite quickly on this one. We all know that seeing the artwork in person is amazing. But we also know that most of us can't do it, and the ones that can afford to do it, it's complicated. So — Cyril, can we load up our art trip, what do we call it? We don't have a good name for this. But essentially, we have around 1,000 amazing institutions, 68 countries. But let's start with Rembrandt. We might have time for only one example. But thanks to the diversity, we've got around 500 amazing Rembrandt object artworks from 46 institutions and 17 countries. Let's say that on your next vacation, you want to go see every single one of them. That is your itinerary, you will probably travel 53,000 kilometers, visit around, I think, 46 institutions, and just FYI, you might release 10 tons of CO2 emissions. (Laughter) But remember, it's art, so you can justify it, perhaps, in some way. Moving on swiftly from here, is something a little bit more technical and more interesting. All that we've shown you so far uses metadata to make the connections. But obviously we have something cool nowadays that everyone likes to talk about, which is machine learning. So what we thought is, let's strip out all the metadata, let's look at what machine learning can do based purely on visual recognition of this entire collection. What we ended up with is this very interesting map, these clusters that have no reference point information, but has just used visuals to cluster things together. Each cluster is an art to us by itself of discovery. But one of the clusters we want to show you very quickly is this amazing cluster of portraits that we found from museums around the world. If you could zoom in a little bit more, Cyril. Just to show you, you can just travel through portraits. And essentially, you can do nature, you can do horses and clusters galore. When we saw all these portraits, we were like, ""Hey, can we do something fun for kids, or can we do something playful to get people interested in portraits?"" Because I haven't really seen young kids really excited to go to a portrait gallery. I wanted to try to figure something out. So we created something called the portrait matcher. It's quite self-explanatory, so I'm just going to let Cyril show his beautiful face. And essentially what's happening is, with the movement of his head, we are matching different portraits around the world from museums. (Applause) And I don't know about you, but I've shown it to my nephew and sister, and the reaction is just phenomenal. All they ask me is, ""When can we go see this?"" And by the way, if we're nice, maybe, Cyril, you can smile and find a happy one? Oh, perfect. By the way, this is not rehearsed. Congrats, Cyril. Great stuff. Oh wow. OK, let's move on; otherwise, this will just take the whole time. (Applause) So, art and culture can be fun also, right? For our last quick experiment — we call all of these ""experiments"" — our last quick experiment comes back to machine learning. We show you clusters, visual clusters, but what if we could ask the machine to also name these clusters? What if it could automatically tag them, using no actual metadata? So what we have is this kind of explorer, where we have managed to match, I think, around 4,000 labels. And we haven't really done anything special here, just fed the collection. And we found interesting categories. We can start with horses, a very straightforward category. You would expect to see that the machine has put images of horses, right? And it has, but you also notice, right over there, that it has a very abstract image that it has still managed to recognize and cluster as horses. We also have an amazing head in terms of a horse. And each one has the tags as to why it got categorized in this. So let's move to another one which I found very funny and interesting, because I don't understand how this category came up. It's called ""Lady in Waiting."" If, Cyril, you do it very quickly, you will see that we have these amazing images of ladies, I guess, in waiting or posing. I don't really understand it. But I've been trying to ask my museum contacts, you know, ""What is this? What's going on here?"" And it's fascinating. Coming back to gold very quickly, I wanted to search for gold and see how the machine tagged all the gold. But, actually, it doesn't tag it as gold. We are living in popular times. It tags it as ""bling-bling."" (Laughter) I'm being hard on Cyril, because I'm moving too fast. Essentially, here you have all the bling-bling of the world's museums organized for you. And finally, to end this talk and these experiments, what I hope you feel after this talk is happiness and emotion. And what would we see when we see happiness? If we actually look at all the objects that have been tagged under ""happiness,"" you would expect happiness, I guess. But there was one that came up that was very fascinating and interesting, which was this artwork by Douglas Coupland, our friend and artist in residence as well, called, ""I Miss My Pre-Internet Brain."" I don't know why the machine feels like it misses its pre-Internet brain and it's been tagged here, but it's a very interesting thought. I sometimes do miss my pre-Internet brain, but not when it comes to exploring arts and culture online. So take out your phones, take out your computers, go visit museums. And just a quick call-out to all the amazing archivists, historians, curators, who are sitting in museums, preserving all this culture. And the least we can do is get our daily dose of art and culture for ourselves and our kids. Thank you. (Applause)"	這個世界充滿了不可思議的事物和豐富的文化遺產。當我們嘗試去接近它們時我們會被它們震驚，並愛上它們。但是大多數時候，世上的人幾乎無法真正地接觸到藝術和文化。當我們開始去探索人類的遺產、欣賞世界上美麗的地區和藝術時，會有甚麼連結產生呢？ 在我們開始演講前我想先澄清幾點，第一，我不是藝術或文化的專家，我是意外地進入這個領域，但是我深愛著它。第二，我稍後要展示給各位看的所有東西都是屬於跟我們合作的偉大博物館、檔案館和基金會所擁有的。這些都不屬於谷歌的。最後，各位在我身後看到的這些東西，現在已經可以在手機和電腦上觀賞了。 這是我們現有的平台，你可以在這裏探索上千個博物館和作品，只需要動動你的手指就可以看到超高解晰度的作品細節。內容的多樣性是令人讚嘆的。如果我們只有歐洲的畫作、如果我們只有現代藝術，我覺得那就有點無聊了。舉個例子，這個月，我們開辦了《美國非裔歷史月》頻道策劃了 82 個展覽，討論藝術和文化的相關內容。我們還有一些來自日本的精美展品以工匠精神為核心這個系列叫做《日本製造》。這是我最喜歡的展覽之一也是我演講的主要思想。我從沒想過我會成為日本玩偶的粉絲。但是我是，要感謝這個展覽它真正教會了我懂得如何欣賞這些日本玩偶背後的工匠精神。相信我，非常令人興奮。我保證。 接下來，我想要快速地示範一樣平台上的東西，讓你可以馬上和你的孩子，和你的朋友分享，讓你們也可以真正地穿梭在這些美麗的展館之中。我們最近的一個想法是和紐約的古根漢博物館合作，你可以體驗到一種身臨其境的感覺。你可以走進它們的大廳很顯然，我想你們大部分人，都曾經來過這裡。你可以在這裏看見什麼叫大師級的建築。但是想像一下，一個在孟買的孩子他正在學習建築，但是他現在沒有機會去古根漢博物館，你可以很輕鬆地瀏覽在古根漢博物館的藏品，你可以輕易地走近這些藏品，等等。這裡還有許多藏品信息。 但是這不是我今天演講的目的。這已經存在了。我們正在構建一些板塊讓平台擁有精彩的未來，讓藝術和文化可以更好地被接受和研究。所以今天我和巴黎駐市藝術家我的好朋友西里爾·迪亞涅，同台為您展示，西里爾·迪亞涅同時也是瑞士洛桑 ECAL 大學互動設計系的教授。西里爾和我們團隊的工程師一直在做的就是嘗試去尋找這些關聯性，然後把一些視覺化出來。 我現在會講得快一點，大家可以看到我背後的作品對了，我澄清一下：親自去看真品還是比較好的。避免大家認為我在嘗試複製真跡。我們繼續。這項作品是色列貝列卡特拉姆的維納斯，這是世界上最古老的藝術品之一，發現於 23 萬年前的戈蘭高地，現在保存在耶路撒冷的以色列博物館中。這也是我們平台上最古老的文物之一。 讓我們放大來看。我們從這個作品開始欣賞。如果我們把它縮放成一點，然後試著去體驗文化的大爆炸我們會有什麼感受呢？會是什麼樣的體驗呢？這就是我們每天在文化中心所做的事情——我們讓超過六百萬來自世界各地的文化藝術品彼此產生聯結。你可以穿梭時空你可以透過這些更瞭解我們的社會。你可以從我們星球的角度來觀賞它，嘗試在沒有界限的限制下，如果我們把藝術和文化組織起來，文化和藝術看起來會變成怎樣。我們也可以依照時間來探索，很明顯地，對我這個數據專家而言，這令人相當驚豔。你可以花數小時研究，在這些年代中，每十年之間藝術、歷史和文化所做出的貢獻。我們很想花幾個小時來為各位展示每十年的變化，不過我們現在沒有時間。各位可以在自己的手機上慢慢地觀賞。 （掌聲） 但是如果你們不介意的話，請把掌聲留到最後，我不想超過時間因為我還有很多很酷的東西想要展示給各位看。 我們繼續快速地介紹：你可以從這裡衍伸出另一個很有趣的想法。在這些美麗的圖片及精美的視覺化方案背後有什麼目的？它有什麼實用性的地方？下一個想法，出自於我們在博物館與策展人的討論，順便說一句，我也很愛他們，因為他們奉獻了他們的一生，嘗試地講述這些故事給我們聽。其中一位策展人告訴我：「阿米特，如果可以做個虛擬的策展人檔案讓六百萬展品可以同時呈現在我們眼前，讓我們看到它們彼此的關聯性，那會怎樣？」相信我，你會花上很長的時間觀賞不同的作品並瞭解它們來自於何處。就像《駭客任務》電影裡面的經歷一樣。 （笑聲） 繼續話題。我們拿世界著名的梵谷為例，他的作品是這個平台上的優秀代表感謝我們有多樣性的不同機構，我們有超過 211 幅這位藝術家的高解析度珍貴作品，有組織地排成了美麗的景觀。隨著西里爾分解及深入放大，你可以看到所有的自畫像可以看到靜物寫生。但是我想快速地舉一個例子在這裡說很合適《臥室》這幅作品有三個版本：一幅在阿姆斯特丹的梵谷博物館一幅在巴黎的奧賽美術館還有一幅在芝加哥的藝術中心實際上芝加哥藝術中心現在把三副作品重新放在一起展覽，這是有史以來的第二次。但實際上在這裡，它們已經數位化，虛擬化地重聚任何人都可以用不同的方式來欣賞，而且你不用擔心排隊觀看時的擁擠。所以讓我們一起快速瀏覽《臥室》這幅作品，你們可以感受我們在每一幅作品上所做的努力我們希望這幅圖片可以在一個數位平台上盡可能完整地講述它的故事。你需要的只是網絡連接和一台電腦。 （掌聲） 西里爾請你再深入一點，快一點。不好意思這是現場演示希望各位給西里爾一些時間——每一個作品都可以這樣操作：無論是現代藝術，當代藝術還是文藝復興藝術品——你想得到的都可以，甚至雕塑也可以。 有的時候你真的不知道是什麼原因吸引你去欣賞一幅藝術作品、去參觀一座博物館或進行一次文化之旅。所以，對我來說這確實是一個挑戰，因為當我決定在谷歌全職從事這個工作的時候，我媽媽並不是很支持。我愛我的媽媽，但是她認為我從事博物館相關的工作是在浪費生命。對她來說，參觀博物館就是放假時候才會做的事情，打一下卡就走人，對吧？我用了大概四年半的時間說服我可愛的印度母親，告訴她，這真的是值得的。我用的辦法是，有一天我發現她喜歡黃金。我就開始把黃金製成的作品展示給她看。我媽媽問我的第一句話是：「我們要去哪裡買這些東西？」 （笑聲） 很明顯地，我的工資沒有那麼高，所以，我說：「媽媽我們買不了。但是你可以虛擬地探索它們。」所以現在每次遇見媽媽，她都會問我：「你的專案裡還有別的金銀做的作品嗎？能給我看看嗎？」這就是我想解釋的觀點。你怎麼接觸這些藝術品並不重要，只要你接觸了這些藝術品只要你開始瞭解你就會被吸引。 說完這個其實有一個很好玩的想法，來闡述如何接觸（這些藝術）的觀點，我會很快的帶過。我們都知道親自去看這些藝術作品是很棒的。但是我們也知道我們中的大部分沒有辦法去，有的人承擔不起費用，這很複雜。所以，西里爾你可以上傳我們的藝術之旅嗎？我們怎麼稱呼這個？我們還沒有一個好的名字來稱呼它。但本質上，我們有來自 68 個國家、1000 個偉大的機構。但我們先從倫勃朗的作品開始。我們也許只有舉一個例子的時間。但感謝這些作品的多樣性，我們收集了來自 17 個國家、46 個組織 500 件偉大的伯倫朗藝術品。比如說，在你的下次放假的時候，你想去看看每一個藝術品，你這趟旅程，我想，你大概要飛 53000 公里、參觀 46 個機構才能看完。另外，供你參考一下，您可能會釋放 10 噸二氧化碳。 （笑聲） 但是請記住，這是藝術，所以從某種角度說這樣做也說得過去。 繼續下一個話題，這個話題，更專業也更有趣。目前我們展示的是利用元數據產生聯繫。但很明顯地，我們現在有很棒的東西每個人都喜歡討論這個領域——機器學習。所以，我們的想法是把全部的元數據拆散掉，看一下如果機器學習僅依靠視覺辨認方式來排列全部的作品，那會變成怎樣。我們創造了這個非常有趣的地圖這些集群沒有參考點信息僅僅依靠視覺外觀聯繫在一起。每一個集群本身的變化，對我們來說就是一件藝術。其中我們想展示給大家的一個集群是全世界博物館中精采的畫像集群。西里爾，如果你可以再放大一點。如各位所見你可以在畫像中徜徉。本質上，你可以尋找與自然相關或與馬相關的這裡有大量的集群。 當我們看著這些畫像時，我們在想：「嘿，我們可不可以為孩子做一些有趣的東西？或者做一些好玩的東西讓人們對畫像更有興趣？」因為我真的沒見過去畫廊真的會很興奮的孩子。我們想創造點什麼。最後我們開發了畫像配對功能。這個功能很好理解，我只需要西里爾展示一下他帥氣的臉龐。基本上，隨著他頭部的移動世界各地博物館的畫像就可以與之匹配。 （掌聲） 我不知道各位感覺如何，但當我展示給我的外甥和妹妹看的時候，他們開心地不得了。他們都在問我：「什麼時候我們可以去參觀這個？」順便提一句如果我們開心點，西里爾，你可以笑一下找一張開心點的？噢，太完美了。我們事先沒有綵排過。恭喜你，西里爾，幹得不錯我們繼續；不然，這個東西會玩上一天。 （掌聲） 所以藝術和文化也可以很有意思，對吧？最後一個小實驗——我們管這些叫做「實驗」——最後一個實驗回到了機器學習部分。我們向各位展示了集群、視覺集群如果我們讓電腦命名這些集群會發生什麼？不使用元數據的情況下電腦可以自動為集群打上標籤嗎？所以我們有了這樣一個瀏覽器，電腦為我們做了 4000 個標籤。我們其實沒有做什麼特別的，只是提供了所有的收藏作品。我們發現了很多有趣的分類。我們可以從馬開始這是很直接的分類。可以想像電腦裡面都是馬的照片，對吧？沒錯，但是如果仔細看這邊這裡也有一些抽象的圖電腦認定也屬於馬的分類。我們也有以馬為標題的的漂亮圖片，每一個圖片都有標籤這說明了為什麼它被這樣分類。 那麼我們繼續看一個我覺得很有趣的例子，因為我不知道這個分類怎麼來的。分類叫做《 等待的女人》西里爾請加快速度，你們可以看到這些精采的圖片都是關於在等待或在擺姿勢的女人。我確實無法理解。但是我一直在嘗試問博物館的聯繫人「這是什麼？這張圖裡發生了什麼事？」的確令人相當著迷。 快速地回到金子，我想要尋找金子然後看看電腦如何給金子打上標籤。但是實際上電腦沒有把它標示為金子。我們生活在一個流行的時代，它打的標籤是《閃閃動人》 （笑聲） 我一直在為難西里爾，因為我講的太快了。現在你可以看到世界上的博物館為您提供的所有「閃閃動人」的東西。 最後，希望各位在聽完這次演講後可以感到幸福和感動。然後當我們感到幸福的時候我們會看到什麼？如果你看完這些被標示著「幸福」的藝術品，我猜你也會感到幸福。但是有一個作品很吸引人也很有趣，由我們的朋友，也是當地藝術家道格拉斯·庫普蘭所創做的。叫做，《我懷念我網路世代前的大腦》我不知道為什麼電腦會想念它自己網路世代前的大腦，也不知道為什麼它會被標記在這裡，但這個想法很有意思。有的時候我也很懷念我網路世代之前的大腦，但當我在網路上探索藝術和文化時，我就不想了。 所以，拿出你的手機和電腦去參觀博物館吧。這就像那些坐在博物館中保存這些歷史的檔案管理員、歷史學家或策展人正為您上門服務。至少我們可以讓我們自己和我們的後代每天增長一點藝術文化知識。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
