Talk	en	zh-tw
amy_lockwood_selling_condoms_in_the_congo	"I am a reformed marketer, and I now work in international development. In October, I spent some time in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is the [second] largest country in Africa. In fact, it's as large as Western Europe, but it only has 300 miles of paved roads. The DRC is a dangerous place. In the past 10 years, five million people have died due to a war in the east. But war isn't the only reason that life is difficult in the DRC. There are many health issues as well. In fact, the HIV prevalence rate is 1.3 percent among adults. This might not sound like a large number, but in a country with 76 million people, it means there are 930,000 that are infected. And due to the poor infrastructure, only 25 percent of those are receiving the life-saving drugs that they need. Which is why, in part, donor agencies provide condoms at low or no cost. And so while I was in the DRC, I spent a lot of time talking to people about condoms, including Damien. Damien runs a hotel outside of Kinshasa. It's a hotel that's only open until midnight, so it's not a place that you stay. But it is a place where sex workers and their clients come. Now Damien knows all about condoms, but he doesn't sell them. He said there's just not in demand. It's not surprising, because only three percent of people in the DRC use condoms. Joseph and Christine, who run a pharmacy where they sell a number of these condoms, said despite the fact that donor agencies provide them at low or no cost, and they have marketing campaigns that go along with them, their customers don't buy the branded versions. They like the generics. And as a marketer, I found that curious. And so I started to look at what the marketing looked like. And it turns out that there are three main messages used by the donor agencies for these condoms: fear, financing and fidelity. They name the condoms things like Vive, ""to live"" or Trust. They package it with the red ribbon that reminds us of HIV, put it in boxes that remind you who paid for them, show pictures of your wife or husband and tell you to protect them or to act prudently. Now these are not the kinds of things that someone is thinking about just before they go get a condom. (Laughter) What is it that you think about just before you get a condom? Sex! And the private companies that sell condoms in these places, they understand this. Their marketing is slightly different. The name might not be much different, but the imagery sure is. Some brands are aspirational, and certainly the packaging is incredibly provocative. And this made me think that perhaps the donor agencies had just missed out on a key aspect of marketing: understanding who's the audience. And for donor agencies, unfortunately, the audience tends to be people that aren't even in the country they're working [in]. It's people back home, people that support their work, people like these. But if what we're really trying to do is stop the spread of HIV, we need to think about the customer, the people whose behavior needs to change — the couples, the young women, the young men — whose lives depend on it. And so the lesson is this: it doesn't really matter what you're selling; you just have to think about who is your customer, and what are the messages that are going to get them to change their behavior. It might just save their lives. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一個改革市場營銷員，我現在致力於國際市場的拓展。在10月份，我在剛果民主共和國花了一段時間，這是非洲第二大國家。事實上，它與西歐一樣大，但它只有300公里的路面有鋪平了的道路。剛果民主共和國是一個危險的地方。在過去的10年，東部地區有500萬人死於戰爭但戰爭不是當地人生活艱難的唯一的原因。 那裡還有許多健康的問題。事實上，愛滋病毒感染率在成年人中佔1.3％。這聽上去不像一個大數目，但在一個擁有7600萬人口的國家，這意味著有93萬人感染。由於基礎設施差，只有25％的人可以獲得他們需要的藥物。這就是為什麼部分捐助機構提供成本低或免費的安全套。 所以我在剛果時我花了很多時間對人談論安全套，包括Damien。Damien管理着一所在金沙薩以外的酒店。這所酒店只提供服務到午夜，它不是一個你會過夜的地方。它是一個性工作者和客戶來的地方。Damien對安全套很了解，但他並不出售安全套。他說因為沒有需求。這並不奇怪，因為在剛果只有3％的人使用安全套。 Joseph和Christine，他們擁有的一所藥店裡出售這些安全套，儘管事實上捐助機構提供成本低或免費的安全套，還有提供推銷的活動，他們的客戶卻不買帶品牌的。他們喜歡通用的品牌。 作為一個營銷員，這令我感到好奇。我開始看看產品的營銷看起來像什麼。事實證明，這些安全套的捐助機構所使用的三個主要信息是：恐懼，財政和忠誠度。他們的安全套稱號大多是「萬歲」, 「活著」或「信賴」。他們的包裝採用紅絲帶，提醒使用者關於愛滋病，然後,盒面提醒你是誰支付它們的，又印著如妻子或丈夫的照片，告訴你，應保護他們,或應謹慎行事。 這些都不是人們在去弄取一個安全套之前思考的事情。（笑聲）你認為去弄取一個安全套之前應在想什麼？性！在這些地方賣安全套的私營公司，他們明白這一點。他們的營銷略有不同。名稱可能不會有太大的不同，但肯定的是圖像大有不同。有些品牌名稱很有鼓動力當然包裝是令人難以置信的富有刺激性。 這使我想到，或許捐助機構錯過了一個營銷的關鍵：了解用戶是誰。不幸的是，對於捐助機構，觀眾往往不是屬於他們正在工作的國家中的人。是家鄉的人，支持他們的工作的人，這些人。但如果我們真正想要做的是阻止艾愛病毒的蔓延，我們需要想到的客戶，是那些需要改變的人們—夫婦，年輕的婦女，青年男子 —他們的生機依賴於它。 因此,教訓是這樣的：無論你真正在賣什麼，你只要想想誰是你的客戶，用什麼樣的話語能夠讓他們改變自己的行為。這才可能挽救他們的生命。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
