Talk	en	zh-tw
amy_purdy_living_beyond_limits	If your life were a book and you were the author, how would you want your story to go? That's the question that changed my life forever. Growing up in the hot Last Vegas desert, all I wanted was to be free. I would daydream about traveling the world, living in a place where it snowed, and I would picture all of the stories that I would go on to tell. At the age of 19, the day after I graduated high school, I moved to a place where it snowed and I became a massage therapist. With this job all I needed were my hands and my massage table by my side and I could go anywhere. For the first time in my life, I felt free, independent and completely in control of my life. That is, until my life took a detour. I went home from work early one day with what I thought was the flu, and less than 24 hours later I was in the hospital on life support with less than a two percent chance of living. It wasn't until days later as I lay in a coma that the doctors diagnosed me with bacterial meningitis, a vaccine-preventable blood infection. Over the course of two and a half months I lost my spleen, my kidneys, the hearing in my left ear and both of my legs below the knee. When my parents wheeled me out of the hospital I felt like I had been pieced back together like a patchwork doll. I thought the worst was over until weeks later when I saw my new legs for the first time. The calves were bulky blocks of metal with pipes bolted together for the ankles and a yellow rubber foot with a raised rubber line from the toe to the ankle to look like a vein. I didn't know what to expect, but I wasn't expecting that. With my mom by my side and tears streaming down our faces, I strapped on these chunky legs and I stood up. They were so painful and so confining that all I could think was, how am I ever going to travel the world in these things? How was I ever going to live the life full of adventure and stories, as I always wanted? And how was I going to snowboard again? That day, I went home, I crawled into bed and this is what my life looked like for the next few months: me passed out, escaping from reality, with my legs resting by my side. I was absolutely physically and emotionally broken. But I knew that in order to move forward, I had to let go of the old Amy and learn to embrace the new Amy. And that is when it dawned on me that I didn't have to be five-foot-five anymore. I could be as tall as I wanted! (Laughter) (Applause) Or as short as I wanted, depending on who I was dating. (Laughter) And if I snowboarded again, my feet aren't going to get cold. (Laughter) And best of all, I thought, I can make my feet the size of all the shoes that are on the sales rack. (Laughter) And I did! So there were benefits here. It was this moment that I asked myself that life-defining question: If my life were a book and I were the author, how would I want the story to go? And I began to daydream. I daydreamed like I did as a little girl and I imagined myself walking gracefully, helping other people through my journey and snowboarding again. And I didn't just see myself carving down a mountain of powder, I could actually feel it. I could feel the wind against my face and the beat of my racing heart as if it were happening in that very moment. And that is when a new chapter in my life began. Four months later I was back up on a snowboard, although things didn't go quite as expected: My knees and my ankles wouldn't bend and at one point I traumatized all the skiers on the chair lift when I fell and my legs, still attached to my snowboard — (Laughter) — went flying down the mountain, and I was on top of the mountain still. I was so shocked, I was just as shocked as everybody else, and I was so discouraged, but I knew that if I could find the right pair of feet that I would be able to do this again. And this is when I learned that our borders and our obstacles can only do two things: one, stop us in our tracks or two, force us to get creative. I did a year of research, still couldn't figure out what kind of legs to use, couldn't find any resources that could help me. So I decided to make a pair myself. My leg maker and I put random parts together and we made a pair of feet that I could snowboard in. As you can see, rusted bolts, rubber, wood and neon pink duct tape. And yes, I can change my toenail polish. It was these legs and the best 21st birthday gift I could ever receive — a new kidney from my dad — that allowed me to follow my dreams again. I started snowboarding, then I went back to work, then I went back to school. Then in 2005 I cofounded a nonprofit organization for youth and young adults with physical disabilities so they could get involved with action sports. From there, I had the opportunity to go to South Africa, where I helped to put shoes on thousands of children's feet so they could attend school. And just this past February, I won two back-to-back World Cup gold medals — (Applause) — which made me the highest ranked adaptive female snowboarder in the world. Eleven years ago, when I lost my legs, I had no idea what to expect. But if you ask me today, if I would ever want to change my situation, I would have to say no. Because my legs haven't disabled me, if anything they've enabled me. They've forced me to rely on my imagination and to believe in the possibilities, and that's why I believe that our imaginations can be used as tools for breaking through borders, because in our minds, we can do anything and we can be anything. It's believing in those dreams and facing our fears head-on that allows us to live our lives beyond our limits. And although today is about innovation without borders, I have to say that in my life, innovation has only been possible because of my borders. I've learned that borders are where the actual ends, but also where the imagination and the story begins. So the thought that I would like  to challenge you with today is that maybe instead of looking at  our challenges and our limitations as something negative or bad, we can begin to look at them as blessings, magnificent gifts that can be used to ignite our imaginations and help us go further than we ever knew we could go. It's not about breaking down borders. It's about pushing off of them and seeing what amazing places they might bring us. Thank you.	如果你的人生是一本書，而你是作者，你希望故事如何發展？這個問題改變了我的一生。在炎熱的拉斯維加斯沙漠長大的我，唯一想要的就是自由。我會想像自己去環遊世界，住在下雪的地方，我會編織各種故事，在日後娓娓道來。我在 19 歲從高中畢業的隔天，搬到一個會下雪的地方，開始當起按摩師。做這份工作，我只需要有雙手和按摩桌在身邊，就能去任何地方。那是我生命中第一次感到自由、獨立，並且完全掌控自己的生活。直到我的生命出現轉折。有天我提早收工回家，原以為自己染上流感，結果不到 24 小時，我就住進醫院，裝上維生系統，只有不到 2% 的存活率。幾天後，我就全身癱瘓，醫生診斷我罹患了細菌性腦膜炎，一種能靠注射疫苗預防的血液感染。經過兩個半月的療程，我喪失了脾臟和腎臟，還有左耳聽力，雙腳膝蓋以下也截肢了。父母用輪椅將我推出醫院時，我感覺自己像是用碎片拼湊而成的娃娃。我以為最糟的情況已經結束了，但幾週後我第一次看到自己的雙腳，才發現並非如此。小腿變成又粗又重的金屬塊，跟管子和腳踝拴在一起，還有個泛黃的橡膠腳，上面有條突起的橡膠線從腳趾延伸至腳踝，為了看起來像條血管。我不知道未來會發生什麼事，但我沒想到會發生這種事。我媽在我身旁，淚水從我倆的臉龐落下，我綁上這雙粗重的腳，站起身來。如此劇烈的疼痛和緊繃讓我不得不想，我要怎麼戴著這些東西環遊世界？我要怎麼繼續擁有那個我從小就夢寐以求的，充滿冒險和故事的生活？ 我要怎麼再次站上滑雪板？那天回到家後，我爬上床，這是我之後幾個月的生活樣貌：渾渾噩噩，逃避現實，雙腳就放在一旁。 我的身心都已支離破碎。但我知道要向前邁進，就得放下以前的艾咪，學習擁抱新的艾咪。那一刻我才發現，我的身高不再得是一六五，我想要多高就可以多高！（笑聲）（掌聲）我也可以想要多矮就多矮，看約會對象是誰再決定。（笑聲）如果我再去滑雪，腳就不會覺得冷了。（笑聲）最棒的是我想我可以把自己的腳做成鞋店特價區裡的鞋子尺寸。（笑聲）我真的這麼做了！看來還是有點好處。就在這個時刻我自問那個定義人生的問題：如果我的人生是一本書，而我是作者，我希望故事怎麼發展？我開始幻想。像我孩提時那樣，想像自己優雅行進，用自己的歷程幫助別人，並且再次滑雪。我不是只看見自己割雪滑過山上的粉雪，我真的能感覺得到。我可以感覺到吹拂在臉上的風，還有飛快的心跳，就像身歷其境一般。 那是我人生開啟新篇章的時刻。四個月後，我重新站上滑雪板，雖然情況不如想像中美好：我的膝蓋和腳踝無法彎曲，一度在纜車上的滑雪客心中留下陰影，因為我跌倒的時候，雙腳還黏在滑雪板上，（笑聲）整個飛下山嶺，身體卻還在山上。我很驚訝，就跟每個人一樣驚訝，我好挫折，但我知道如果能找到對的那雙腳，我就能再次滑雪。就是這個時候，我了解到限制和阻礙只會影響兩件事：第一，終止我們的習慣，第二，強迫我們發揮創意。我研究了一年，至今仍無法找出要用哪一種腳，無法找到任何能幫助我的資源。因此我決定自己做一雙腳。製腳師和我任意組裝零件，最後完成了一雙讓我能滑雪的腳。你可以看到，生鏽的螺絲、橡皮、木頭和粉紅布膠帶。沒錯，我還能換不同的指甲油。這些腳和最棒的 21 歲生日禮物，也就是爸爸捐給我的一顆腎，讓我能再次追尋我的夢想。 我開始站上雪板滑雪，接著回去工作、回到校園。2005 年時我合夥創辦非營利組織，幫助有肢體障礙的青少年，讓他們能參與極限運動。我在那裡得到前往南非的機會，可以去幫助成千上萬名孩童讓他們有鞋穿好去上學。今年二月，我接連贏得兩面世界盃金牌，（掌聲）這讓我成為世界頂尖的女性身障滑雪板員。 我 11 年前失去雙腳的時候，完全沒想到會有這件事。但如果你今天問我，是否曾想過要改變處境，我會說不。因為我的雙腳從未讓我失能，反而賦予我能力。我的腳迫使我仰賴想像力，讓我相信一切都有希望，因此我相信我們的想像力能夠成為工具，用來打破藩籬，因為在我們心中，我們能做任何事，能成為各種人。是因為相信那些夢想，正視迎面而來的恐懼，讓每個人能活出自我，超越極限。雖然今天的主題是關於創新無界線，但我得說在我的生活中創新能實現正是因為我的限制。我一直以為限制就是真正的盡頭，但其實限制是想像力與故事的開端。今天我想挑戰你們的觀點就是與其把我們的挑戰和限制視為某種負面或不好的事，我們可以開始將這些事視為祝福，是能點燃想像力的珍貴禮物，幫助我們不再畫地自限，走得更遠。這並不是指要打破限制，而是要跳脫限制，看限制能帶我們到什麼好地方去。謝謝。
