Talk	en	zh-tw
amy_webb_how_i_hacked_online_dating	"So my name is Amy Webb, and a few years ago I found myself at the end of yet another fantastic relationship that came burning down in a spectacular fashion. And I thought, what's wrong with me? I don't understand why this keeps happening. So I asked everybody in my life what they thought. I turned to my grandmother, who always had plenty of advice, and she said, ""Stop being so picky. You've got to date around. And most importantly, true love will find you when you least expect it."" Now as it turns out, I'm somebody who thinks a lot about data, as you'll soon find. I am constantly swimming in numbers, formulas and charts. I also have a very tight-knit family, and I'm very, very close with my sister, and as a result, I wanted to have the same type of family when I grew up. So I'm at the end of this bad breakup, I'm 30 years old, I figure I'm probably going to have to date somebody for about six months before I'm ready to get monogamous and before we can sort of cohabitate, and we have to do that for a while before we can get engaged. And if I want to start having children by the time I'm 35, that meant that I would have had to have been on my way to marriage five years ago. So that wasn't going to work. If my strategy was to least-expect my way into true love, then the variable that I had to deal with was serendipity. In short, I was trying to figure out what's the probability of my finding Mr. Right? Well, at the time I was living in the city of Philadelphia, and it's a big city, and I figured, in this entire place, there are lots of possibilities. So again, I started doing some math. Population of Philadelphia: it has 1.5 million people. I figure about half of that are men, so that takes the number down to 750,000. I'm looking for a guy between the ages of 30 and 36, which was only four percent of the population, so now I'm dealing with the possibility of 30,000 men. I was looking for somebody who was Jewish, because I am and that was important to me. That's only 2.3 percent of the population. I figure I'm attracted to maybe one out of 10 of those men, and there was no way I was going to deal with somebody who was an avid golfer. So that basically meant there were 35 men for me that I could possibly date in the entire city of Philadelphia. In the meantime, my very large Jewish family was already all married and well on their way to having lots and lots of children, and I felt like I was under tremendous peer pressure to get my life going already. So I have two possible strategies at this point I'm sort of figuring out. One, I can take my grandmother's advice and sort of least-expect my way into maybe bumping into the one out of 35 possible men in the entire 1.5-million-person city of Philadelphia, or I could try online dating. Now, I like the idea of online dating, because it's predicated on an algorithm, and that's really just a simple way of saying I've got a problem, I'm going to use some data, run it through a system and get to a solution. So online dating is the second most popular way that people now meet each other, but as it turns out, algorithms have been around for thousands of years in almost every culture. In fact, in Judaism, there were matchmakers a long time ago, and though they didn't have an explicit algorithm per se, they definitely were running through formulas in their heads, like, is the girl going to like the boy? Are the families going to get along? What's the rabbi going to say? Are they going to start having children right away? The matchmaker would sort of think through all of this, put two people together, and that would be the end of it. So in my case, I thought, well, will data and an algorithm lead me to my Prince Charming? So I decided to sign on. Now, there was one small catch. As I'm signing on to the various dating websites, as it happens, I was really, really busy. But that actually wasn't the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that I hate filling out questionnaires of any kind, and I certainly don't like questionnaires that are like Cosmo quizzes. So I just copied and pasted from my résumé. (Laughter) So in the descriptive part up top, I said that I was an award-winning journalist and a future thinker. When I was asked about fun activities and my ideal date, I said monetization and fluency in Japanese. I talked a lot about JavaScript. (Laughter) So obviously this was not the best way to put my most sexy foot forward. But the real failure was that there were plenty of men for me to date. These algorithms had a sea full of men that wanted to take me out on lots of dates — what turned out to be truly awful dates. There was this guy Steve, the I.T. guy. The algorithm matched us up because we share a love of gadgets, we share a love of math and data and '80s music, and so I agreed to go out with him. So Steve the I.T. guy invited me out to one of Philadelphia's white-table-cloth, extremely expensive restaurants. And we went in, and right off the bat, our conversation really wasn't taking flight, but he was ordering a lot of food. In fact, he didn't even bother looking at the menu. He was ordering multiple appetizers, multiple entrées, for me as well, and suddenly there are piles and piles of food on our table, also lots and lots of bottles of wine. So we're nearing the end of our conversation and the end of dinner, and I've decided Steve the I.T. guy and I are really just not meant for each other, but we'll part ways as friends, when he gets up to go to the bathroom, and in the meantime, the bill comes to our table. And listen, I'm a modern woman. I am totally down with splitting the bill. But then Steve the I.T. guy didn't come back. (Gasping) And that was my entire month's rent. (Audience gasps) So needless to say, I was not having a good night. So I run home, I call my mother, I call my sister, and as I do, at the end of each one of these terrible, terrible dates, I regale them with the details. And they say to me, ""Stop complaining."" (Laughter) ""You're just being too picky."" So I said, fine, from here on out I'm only going on dates where I know there's Wi-Fi, and I'm bringing my laptop. I'm going to shove it into my bag, I'm going to have this email template, and I'm going to fill it out and collect information on all these different data points during the date to prove to everybody that empirically, these dates really are terrible. (Laughter) So I started tracking things like really stupid, awkward, sexual remarks; bad vocabulary; the number of times a man forced me to high-five him. (Laughter) So I started to crunch some numbers, and that allowed me to make some correlations. So as it turns out, for some reason, men who drink Scotch reference kinky sex immediately. (Laughter) Well, it turns out that these probably weren't bad guys. There were just bad for me. And as it happens, the algorithms that were setting us up, they weren't bad either. These algorithms were doing exactly what they were designed to do, which was to take our user-generated information, in my case, my résumé, and match it up with other people's information. See, the real problem here is that, while the algorithms work just fine, you and I don't, when confronted with blank windows where we're supposed to input our information online. Very few of us have the ability to be totally and brutally honest with ourselves. The other problem is that these websites are asking us questions like, are you a dog person or a cat person? Do you like horror films or romance films? I'm not looking for a pen pal. I'm looking for a husband. Right? So there's a certain amount of superficiality in that data. So I said fine, I've got a new plan. I'm going to keep using these online dating sites, but I'm going to treat them as databases, and rather than waiting for an algorithm to set me up, I think I'm going to try reverse-engineering this entire system. So knowing that there was superficial data that was being used to match me up with other people, I decided instead to ask my own questions. What was every single possible thing that I could think of that I was looking for in a mate? So I started writing and writing and writing, and at the end, I had amassed 72 different data points. I wanted somebody was Jew-ish, so I was looking for somebody who had the same background and thoughts on our culture, but wasn't going to force me to go to shul every Friday and Saturday. I wanted somebody who worked hard, because work for me is extremely important, but not too hard. For me, the hobbies that I have are really just new work projects that I've launched. I also wanted somebody who not only wanted two children, but was going to have the same attitude toward parenting that I do, so somebody who was going to be totally okay with forcing our child to start taking piano lessons at age three, and also maybe computer science classes if we could wrangle it. So things like that, but I also wanted somebody who would go to far-flung, exotic places, like Petra, Jordan. I also wanted somebody who would weigh 20 pounds more than me at all times, regardless of what I weighed. (Laughter) So I now have these 72 different data points, which, to be fair, is a lot. So what I did was, I went through and I prioritized that list. I broke it into a top tier and a second tier of points, and I ranked everything starting at 100 and going all the way down to 91, and listing things like I was looking for somebody who was really smart, who would challenge and stimulate me, and balancing that with a second tier and a second set of points. These things were also important to me but not necessarily deal-breakers. (Laughter) So once I had all this done, I then built a scoring system, because what I wanted to do was to sort of mathematically calculate whether or not I thought the guy that I found online would be a match with me. I figured there would be a minimum of 700 points before I would agree to email somebody or respond to an email message. For 900 points, I'd agree to go out on a date, and I wouldn't even consider any kind of relationship before somebody had crossed the 1,500 point threshold. Well, as it turns out, this worked pretty well. So I go back online now. I found Jewishdoc57 who's incredibly good-looking, incredibly well-spoken, he had hiked Mt. Fuji, he had walked along the Great Wall. He likes to travel as long as it doesn't involve a cruise ship. And I thought, I've done it! I've cracked the code. I have just found the Jewish Prince Charming of my family's dreams. There was only one problem: He didn't like me back. And I guess the one variable that I haven't considered is the competition. Who are all of the other women on these dating sites? I found SmileyGirl1978. She said she was a ""Fun girl who is Happy and Outgoing."" She listed her job as ""teacher."" She said she is ""silly, nice and friendly."" She likes to make people laugh ""alot."" At this moment I knew, clicking profile after profile that looked like this, that I needed to do some market research. So I created 10 fake male profiles. Now, before I lose all of you — (Laughter) — understand that I did this strictly to gather data about everybody else in the system. I didn't carry on crazy Catfish-style relationships with anybody. I really was just scraping their data. But I didn't want everybody's data. I only wanted data on the women who were going to be attracted to the type of man that I really, really wanted to marry. When I released these men into the wild, I did follow some rules. So I didn't reach out to any woman first. I just waited to see who these profiles were going to attract, and mainly what I was looking at was two different data sets. So I was looking at qualitative data, so what was the humor, the tone, the voice, the communication style that these women shared in common? And also quantitative data, so what was the average length of their profile, how much time was spent between messages? What I was trying to get at here was that I figured, in person, I would be just as competitive as a SmileyGirl1978. I wanted to figure out how to maximize my own profile online. Well, one month later, I had a lot of data, and I was able to do another analysis. And as it turns out, content matters a lot. So smart people tend to write a lot — 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 words about themselves, which may all be very, very interesting. The challenge here, though, is that the popular men and women are sticking to 97 words on average that are written very, very well, even though it may not seem like it all the time. The other hallmark of the people who do this well is that they're using non-specific language. So in my case, ""The English Patient"" is my most favorite movie ever, but it doesn't work to use that in a profile, because that's a superficial data point, and somebody may disagree and decide they don't want to go out because they didn't like sitting through the three-hour movie. Also, optimistic language matters a lot. So this is a word cloud highlighting the most popular words that were used by the most popular women, words like ""fun"" and ""girl"" and ""love."" And what I realized was not that I had to dumb down my own profile. Remember, I'm somebody who said that I speak fluent Japanese and I know JavaScript and I was okay with that. The difference is that it's about being more approachable and helping people understand the best way to reach out to you. And as it turns out, timing is also really, really important. Just because you have access to somebody's mobile phone number or their instant message account and it's 2 o'clock in the morning and you happen to be awake, doesn't mean that that's a good time to communicate with those people. The popular women on these online sites spend an average of 23 hours in between each communication. And that's what we would normally do in the usual process of courtship. And finally — there were the photos. All of the women who were popular showed some skin. They all looked really great, which turned out to be in sharp contrast to what I had uploaded. (Laughter) Once I had all of this information, I was able to create a super profile, so it was still me, but it was me optimized now for this ecosystem. And as it turns out, I did a really good job. I was the most popular person online. (Laughter) (Applause) And as it turns out, lots and lots of men wanted to date me. So I call my mom, I call my sister, I call my grandmother. I'm telling them about this fabulous news, and they say, ""This is wonderful! How soon are you going out?"" I said, ""Actually, I'm not going to go out with anybody."" Because remember, in my scoring system, they have to reach a minimum threshold of 700 points, and none of them have done that. They said, ""What? You're still being too damn picky."" Well, not too long after that, I found this guy, Thevenin, and he said that he was culturally Jewish, he said that his job was an arctic baby seal hunter, which I thought was very clever. He talked in detail about travel. He made a lot of really interesting cultural references. He looked and talked exactly like what I wanted, and immediately, he scored 850 points. It was enough for a date. Three weeks later, we met up in person for what turned out to be a 14-hour-long conversation that went from coffee shop to restaurant to another coffee shop to another restaurant, and when he dropped me back off at my house that night I re-scored him — [1,050 points!] Thought, you know what, this entire time, I haven't been picky enough. Well, a year and a half after that, we were non-cruise ship traveling through Petra, Jordan, when he got down on his knee and proposed. A year after that, we were married, and about a year and a half after that, our daughter, Petra, was born. Audience: Oh! (Applause) [What it means...] Obviously, I'm having a fabulous life, so — (Laughter) The question is, what does all of this mean for you? Well, as it turns out, there is an algorithm for love. It's just not the ones that we're being presented with online. In fact, it's something that you write yourself. So whether you're looking for a husband or a wife or you're trying to find your passion or you're trying to start a business, all you have to really do is figure out your own framework and play by your own rules, and feel free to be as picky as you want. Well, on my wedding day, I had a conversation again with my grandmother, and she said, ""All right, maybe I was wrong. It looks like you did come up with a really, really great system. Now, your matzah balls ... They should be fluffy, not hard."" (Laughter) And I'll take her advice on that. (Applause)"	"我的名字是艾咪韋伯幾年前，我發現自己再次走到另一段美好戀情的盡頭當然最終也壯烈的結束了接著我想：「我是怎麼了？」為什麼每段感情總以失敗告終 所以我問了我身邊的人聽聽他們的想法我問了我祖母她總是有一堆建議她回答我：「不要這麼挑剔！妳得出去約會最重要的是真愛總是在不經意時出現」 事實上我是個非常相信根據的人我想你很快就會發現這點我的生活跟數字、公式還有圖表脫不了關係我有一個非常棒的家庭我和我的姐姐十分親密因此，我夢想著能擁有一個像我家一樣美好的家庭 所以我最終是慘烈地分手了我現在三十歲我認為至少要交往六個月才能夠確定這個人是你未來的伴侶開始同居生活前也需要一點時間同居過一陣子後，才是訂婚假設我想在35歲時生小孩代表我必須在五年前開始計劃結婚很明顯地，這行不通 如果找到真愛的方法是減少期待那唯一的變數就是看緣份了簡單來說，我想搞清楚我找到真命天子的機率有多少？我住在費城的時候它是個大城市，而且我發現在這個地方充滿了機會所以，我又算了一下費城的人口是150萬人我推估半數是男性因此男性至少有75萬名我的目標是30到36歲之間的男性大概只佔了百分之四所以只剩下3萬人我想要找猶太人因為我自己就是，而且這對我很重要但他們只佔人口的百分之2.3我假設這之中有1/10的人會喜歡我不過我跟打高爾夫的完全合不來意思就是說只剩35個人可能成為我約會的對象在整個費城！ 同時，在我的猶太大家族中所有人都已經結婚準備生很多很多小孩這更讓我感覺到必須快點成家的壓力 所以對此我有兩個對策一、聽我祖母的話不要抱太大期待以為能在費城150萬人口中與那35個人在路上巧遇又或者試試網路交友現在我比較喜歡網路交友這個方法因為這可以用算式算出來這很非常地簡單當你遇到問題，只要運用一些數據透過系統的計算最後得到解決方法所以網路交友成了現代人找對象時第二受歡迎的方法但是計算的方法在每個文化中其實已經存在好幾千年了事實上，猶太教從很久以前開始就有媒人了雖然沒有明確的公式他們一定也在腦裡計算過像是，那女孩會喜歡那男孩嗎？他們的家人會處得來嗎？拉比會怎麼想?(註: 拉比 是猶太人生活宗教上的老師)他們會不會很快就有孩子?媒人通常會在腦中想過這些問題後把兩人湊成一對我猜想，像我的情形數據和算式真能夠幫我找到我的白馬王子嗎？我決定註冊網路交友 這裡有一個小小的插曲當我在一堆交友網站註冊後想當然，我變得相當忙但這還不是最大的問題最困擾我的是我痛恨填問卷更不要說那些問卷根本就像是心理測驗因此我就直接從履歷複製貼上 (笑聲) 在最上方的自我描述那一欄我填上我是個得過獎的記者和未來思想家當它問到我的興趣和理想的對象我回答賺錢和流利的日文我寫了許多有關程式語言的事 但這似乎不是展現自己最好一面的的好方法但最糟的是那裡有一堆可以跟我約會的男人這些運算法則提供了一堆要約我出去的男人雖然那些約會的結果都不太好有一位叫史帝夫的男人，是位科技人運算法則把我們湊成一對因為我們都喜歡小玩意還有數學和80年代的音樂所以我也同意跟他出去史帝夫這位科技人約我去費城一家的高檔餐廳那裡消費非常昂貴我們到了以後並沒有講到什麼話他只是點了很多食物事實上他連餐單都沒瞄過一眼點了一堆開胃菜一堆主菜，當然也替我點了突然之間，桌上擺滿了食物和一瓶又一瓶的酒在我們快要沒話講也快吃完飯時，我默默想我們兩個並不適合彼此但我們不會分開的太難看他去廁所的時候服務生將賬單送到桌上聽好了，我是個現代女性當然可以接受各付各的但是史帝夫那位科技人沒有回來那足足是我整個月的房租不用說，那不是個美好的晚餐所以我跑回家，打給我媽媽和姐姐就像每次經歷過一場糟糕的約會後一樣告訴她們所有細節 她們告訴我「不要再抱怨了!」(笑聲)「妳就是太挑剔了!」 所以我決定從此之後我只去我知道的地方約會要有無線網路，我還要帶著筆電我會把它塞進我的包包我會用這個電子郵件範本填上空格，收集些資料這樣我就能透過這些資料以親身經歷向大家證明這些約會有多糟 (笑聲)我開始注意那些笨拙、尷尬、帶有性意味的言論不當用詞逼我和他擊掌的次數 (笑聲) 我開始統計這些數字接著我發現了一些關聯性例如說不知道為什麼 喝蘇格蘭威士忌的男人總令我聯想到性變態 (笑聲) 當然這不代表他們真的是壞人他們只是不適合我將我們湊在一起的交友網站也沒有錯它們只是照著一定的公式運作而已蒐集使用者的基本資料像是我的履歷表和其他人的資料做配對所以真正的問題是運算法則可以正常運作我們卻作不到當面對需要填入個人資料的空白視窗時我們之中只有極少數的人能夠全然地坦白面對另一個問題是，交友網站總是問一些問題像是，你喜歡狗還是貓？你喜歡恐怖片還是愛情片？我又不是要找筆友我是要找老公，不是嗎？那裡頭淨是一些膚淺的資料 我想說好吧，我有一個新的計劃我會繼續用這些交友網站但僅僅是把它當成資料庫另外，比起讓系統替我配對我決定反向操作這整個系統因為在知道它僅靠一些膚淺問題幫我找尋適合的對象之後我決定自己提出自己的問題在我找另一半時會想到哪些條件呢？ 我開始不停地寫最後，我累積了72個不同的條件我想找猶太人找一個跟我有相同背景相同文化觀的人但前提是每週五、週六他不會逼我去猶太教會我想找認真工作的人因為工作對我來說相當重要不過也不能太過火對我而言，我的嗜好就只是手頭上正在進行的工作我想找個打算生兩個小孩教養觀念和我一樣的人一個不反對我們的小孩三歲開始學鋼琴如果可能的話還要上電腦課像是這些問題，還有最好是個見多識廣的人，旅行過特別的地方像是佩特拉、約旦還有，無論何時無論我多重他都必須比我重個20磅 (笑聲) 現在，我有72個條件老實說，實在很多我看了看那張清單排出優先順序我把整份清單分為兩部分我將每樣條件從100分開始打分數最低91分並且寫下具體條件，像是聰明能夠挑戰和激勵我跟第二部分的條件做平衡這些條件對我而言當然也很重要但是並沒有那麼絕對 在我完成之後我建立了一個記分系統因為我想做的就像是數學計算計算出我在網路上找到的這個男人是不是適合我根據我的記分系統，要達到700分我才會寫電子郵件給對方或是回信900分代表可以跟他出去但是不到1,500分的話我就不會考慮開始一段關係 這方法非常的成功因此，我從新回到網路世界我找到Jewishdoc57他長的很帥，很會說話他爬過富士山走過長城只要不是搭郵輪，他喜歡旅遊我心想，我做到了!我破解了我找到我夢想中美滿家庭的猶太王子 只有一個問題他並不喜歡我我想我忘了還有一個變數競爭在這些交友網站上的其他女人她們是誰?我找到SmileyGirl1978她表示自己是個風趣外向的女孩她的工作欄寫著老師她說自己傻傻的、親切好相處喜歡逗人笑 這瞬間，我懂了看了一個又一個類似這樣的資料後我想我必須做些市場調查因此我註冊了10個假的男性帳號在你們準備要唾棄我之前(笑聲)我必須澄清我這樣做純粹只是為了蒐集這個系統裡其他人的資料我沒有戲弄任何人我真的只是蒐集資料不過我並不需要所有人的我只需要那些會喜歡上我想嫁的男人的那些女人 (笑聲) 我剛開始用這些假帳號時我遵守了一些規則所以一開始，我沒和任何女人主動聯繫我想看這些假帳號能吸引到什麼樣的人我將它分為兩組數據組我觀察特性類的數據找出這些女人在幽默感、語調聲音和溝通方式方面有哪些共同點另外那些量化的數據像是個人檔案的平均長度傳訊息時花了多少時間我想知道的是假使我也這麼做了我就會跟SmileyGirl1978一樣受歡迎我想試著將我的個人檔案發揮最大效益 一個月後我蒐集到許多數據作分析結果是，內容很重要聰明的人通常都寫很長三四千字甚至5千字而且內容十分有趣困難點在這些受歡迎的男人和女人平均都只打97個字當然也寫得很好雖然有些看起來像假的另一個特點是他們絕不會寫的很具體以我的例子來說我最喜歡的電影是「英倫情人」但我絕不能將它寫在我的資料上因為那樣會太具體了有人可能因為不喜歡那部電影就拒絕跟我出去因為他們對坐三個小時看一部電影沒興趣 另外，正面的字眼非常重要這是文字雲顯示出那些受歡迎的女人常用的字像是""有趣""、""女孩""、""愛""然而我意識到的並不是降低我個人檔案的水準還記得嗎，我說過我是能說一口流利日文和懂得程式語言的人我覺得這很好啊重點是要讓自己變得容易親近些使其他人了解如何與你接觸 時間點也相當重要你有了某人的電話號碼又或者是他們的即時通訊軟體帳號即時你清晨2點還醒着也不應該在這個時間跟那些人聯絡交友網站上這些受歡迎的女人花在交談上的時間每段平均約23小時通常我們追求某人的時候也都是這樣的 最後是照片受歡迎的女人每個都會露些肉她們看起來都很美和我上傳的照片就形成極大的對比 當我擁有了這些資訊之後我就能作出一個「超級檔案」這還是我但這是在這個生態圈下最佳化後的我結果顯示，我成功了我是網路上最有名的人 (笑聲)(掌聲) 有數不清的男人想約我出去所以我打電話給我媽、我姐姐還有祖母我告訴她們這個好消息她們說：「這真是太棒了!」「妳什麼時候要去約會？」我回答：「事實上，我不會跟任何人出去」記得嗎？在我的記分系統他們至少要拿到700分但沒有一個人達到這個標準她們說：「什麼？妳怎麼還是這麼挑剔」 但在不久之後我遇見了戴維寧他說他文化上屬於猶太文化他說他的工作是北極小海豹獵人我覺得很妙他寫了很多關於旅行的事舉了許多有趣的文化差異的例子他的長相和說話的方式都是我喜歡的型當然，他馬上就得了850分850分已經足夠出去約會 三個禮拜之後，我們見面了我們聊了14個小時從咖啡廳到餐廳又從另一家咖啡廳到另一間餐廳當他送我回家時我重新為他打了分數「1050分!」你知道嗎？這次我一點都不挑剔一年半後我們去了佩特拉、約旦當然，不是搭郵輪當時他跪下，向我求婚一年後，我們結婚了那之後一年半，我們的女兒佩特拉出生了(掌聲) 顯然，我現在過著很幸福的生活，所以...(笑聲)問題是，這些對你而言是什麼? 這是一個為愛訂做的運算法則這不只是我們在網路上看起來的樣子是你怎麼形容你自己所以，無論你是在找另一半找尋你的熱情或是嘗試創業你需要做的是找出你自己的原則照你的規則來愛怎麼挑剔就怎麼挑剔 我結婚那天我跟我的祖母談了一下她說：「好吧，我也許是錯的」「看來妳真的發明出一個非常好的系統」「不過妳的瑪索球 (註：猶太丸子)口感應該是鬆軟的，不應該是硬的」 這次我會聽她的話了 (掌聲)"
