Talk	en	zh-tw
amy_tan_on_creativity	"The Value of Nothing: Out of Nothing Comes Something. That was an essay I wrote when I was 11 years old and I got a B+. (Laughter) What I'm going to talk about: nothing out of something, and how we create. And I'm gonna try and do that within the 18-minute time span that we were told to stay within, and to follow the TED commandments: that is, actually, something that creates a near-death experience, but near-death is good for creativity. (Laughter) OK. So, I also want to explain, because Dave Eggers said he was going to heckle me if I said anything that was a lie, or not true to universal creativity. And I've done it this way for half the audience, who is scientific. When I say we, I don't mean you, necessarily; I mean me, and my right brain, my left brain and the one that's in between that is the censor and tells me what I'm saying is wrong. And I'm going do that also by looking at what I think is part of my creative process, which includes a number of things that happened, actually — the nothing started even earlier than the moment in which I'm creating something new. And that includes nature, and nurture, and what I refer to as nightmares. Now in the nature area, we look at whether or not we are innately equipped with something, perhaps in our brains, some abnormal chromosome that causes this muse-like effect. And some people would say that we're born with it in some other means. And others, like my mother, would say that I get my material from past lives. Some people would also say that creativity may be a function of some other neurological quirk — van Gogh syndrome — that you have a little bit of, you know, psychosis, or depression. I do have to say, somebody — I read recently that van Gogh wasn't really necessarily psychotic, that he might have had temporal lobe seizures, and that might have caused his spurt of creativity, and I don't — I suppose it does something in some part of your brain. And I will mention that I actually developed temporal lobe seizures a number of years ago, but it was during the time I was writing my last book, and some people say that book is quite different. I think that part of it also begins with a sense of identity crisis: you know, who am I, why am I this particular person, why am I not black like everybody else? And sometimes you're equipped with skills, but they may not be the kind of skills that enable creativity. I used to draw. I thought I would be an artist. And I had a miniature poodle. And it wasn't bad, but it wasn't really creative. Because all I could really do was represent in a very one-on-one way. And I have a sense that I probably copied this from a book. And then, I also wasn't really shining in a certain area that I wanted to be, and you know, you look at those scores, and it wasn't bad, but it was not certainly predictive that I would one day make my living out of the artful arrangement of words. Also, one of the principles of creativity is to have a little childhood trauma. And I had the usual kind that I think a lot of people had, and that is that, you know, I had expectations placed on me. That figure right there, by the way, figure right there was a toy given to me when I was but nine years old, and it was to help me become a doctor from a very early age. I have some ones that were long lasting: from the age of five to 15, this was supposed to be my side occupation, and it led to a sense of failure. But actually, there was something quite real in my life that happened when I was about 14. And it was discovered that my brother, in 1967, and then my father, six months later, had brain tumors. And my mother believed that something had gone wrong, and she was gonna find out what it was, and she was gonna fix it. My father was a Baptist minister, and he believed in miracles, and that God's will would take care of that. But, of course, they ended up dying, six months apart. And after that, my mother believed that it was fate, or curses — she went looking through all the reasons in the universe why this would have happened. Everything except randomness. She did not believe in randomness. There was a reason for everything. And one of the reasons, she thought, was that her mother, who had died when she was very young, was angry at her. And so, I had this notion of death all around me, because my mother also believed that I would be next, and she would be next. And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon, you begin to think very much about everything. You become very creative, in a survival sense. And this, then, led to my big questions. And they're the same ones that I have today. And they are: why do things happen, and how do things happen? And the one my mother asked: how do I make things happen? It's a wonderful way to look at these questions, when you write a story. Because, after all, in that framework, between page one and 300, you have to answer this question of why things happen, how things happen, in what order they happen. What are the influences? How do I, as the narrator, as the writer, also influence that? And it's also one that, I think, many of our scientists have been asking. It's a kind of cosmology, and I have to develop a cosmology of my own universe, as the creator of that universe. And you see, there's a lot of back and forth in trying to make that happen, trying to figure it out — years and years, oftentimes. So, when I look at creativity, I also think that it is this sense or this inability to repress, my looking at associations in practically anything in life. And I got a lot of them during what's been going on throughout this conference, almost everything that's been going on. And so I'm going to use, as the metaphor, this association: quantum mechanics, which I really don't understand, but I'm still gonna use it as the process for explaining how it is the metaphor. So, in quantum mechanics, of course, you have dark energy and dark matter. And it's the same thing in looking at these questions of how things happen. There's a lot of unknown, and you often don't know what it is except by its absence. But when you make those associations, you want them to come together in a kind of synergy in the story, and what you're finding is what matters. The meaning. And that's what I look for in my work, a personal meaning. There is also the uncertainty principle, which is part of quantum mechanics, as I understand it. (Laughter) And this happens constantly in the writing. And there's the terrible and dreaded observer effect, in which you're looking for something, and you know, things are happening simultaneously, and you're looking at it in a different way, and you're trying to really look for the about-ness, or what is this story about. And if you try too hard, then you will only write the about. You won't discover anything. And what you were supposed to find, what you hoped to find in some serendipitous way, is no longer there. Now, I don't want to ignore the other side of what happens in our universe, like many of our scientists have. And so, I am going to just throw in string theory here, and just say that creative people are multidimensional, and there are 11 levels, I think, of anxiety. (Laughter) And they all operate at the same time. There is also a big question of ambiguity. And I would link that to something called the cosmological constant. And you don't know what is operating, but something is operating there. And ambiguity, to me, is very uncomfortable in my life, and I have it. Moral ambiguity. It is constantly there. And, just as an example, this is one that recently came to me. It was something I read in an editorial by a woman who was talking about the war in Iraq. And she said, ""Save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life."" A very famous Chinese saying, she said. And that means because we went into Iraq, we should stay there until things were solved. You know, maybe even 100 years. So, there was another one that I came across, and it's ""saving fish from drowning."" And it's what Buddhist fishermen say, because they're not supposed to kill anything. And they also have to make a living, and people need to be fed. So their way of rationalizing that is they are saving the fish from drowning, and unfortunately, in the process the fish die. Now, what's encapsulated in both these drowning metaphors — actually, one of them is my mother's interpretation, and it is a famous Chinese saying, because she said it to me: ""save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life."" And it was a warning — don't get involved in other people's business, or you're going to get stuck. OK. I think if somebody really was drowning, she'd save them. But, both of these sayings — saving a fish from drowning, or saving a man from drowning — to me they had to do with intentions. And all of us in life, when we see a situation, we have a response. And then we have intentions. There's an ambiguity of what that should be that we should do, and then we do something. And the results of that may not match what our intentions had been. Maybe things go wrong. And so, after that, what are our responsibilities? What are we supposed to do? Do we stay in for life, or do we do something else and justify and say, well, my intentions were good, and therefore I cannot be held responsible for all of it? That is the ambiguity in my life that really disturbed me, and led me to write a book called ""Saving Fish From Drowning."" I saw examples of that. Once I identified this question, it was all over the place. I got these hints everywhere. And then, in a way, I knew that they had always been there. And then writing, that's what happens. I get these hints, these clues, and I realize that they've been obvious, and yet they have not been. And what I need, in effect, is a focus. And when I have the question, it is a focus. And all these things that seem to be flotsam and jetsam in life actually go through that question, and what happens is those particular things become relevant. And it seems like it's happening all the time. You think there's a sort of coincidence going on, a serendipity, in which you're getting all this help from the universe. And it may also be explained that now you have a focus. And you are noticing it more often. But you apply this. You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions. Your brother, who's fallen in trouble, do you take care of him? Why or why not? It may be something that is perhaps more serious — as I said, human rights in Burma. I was thinking that I shouldn't go because somebody said, if I did, it would show that I approved of the military regime there. And then, after a while, I had to ask myself, ""Why do we take on knowledge, why do we take on assumptions that other people have given us?"" And it was the same thing that I felt when I was growing up, and was hearing these rules of moral conduct from my father, who was a Baptist minister. So I decided that I would go to Burma for my own intentions, and still didn't know that if I went there, what the result of that would be, if I wrote a book — and I just would have to face that later, when the time came. We are all concerned with things that we see in the world that we are aware of. We come to this point and say, what do I as an individual do? Not all of us can go to Africa, or work at hospitals, so what do we do, if we have this moral response, this feeling? Also, I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at, and we talked about today, is genocide. This leads to this question. When I look at all these things that are morally ambiguous and uncomfortable, and I consider what my intentions should be, I realize it goes back to this identity question that I had when I was a child — and why am I here, and what is the meaning of my life, and what is my place in the universe? It seems so obvious, and yet it is not. We all hate moral ambiguity in some sense, and yet it is also absolutely necessary. In writing a story, it is the place where I begin. Sometimes I get help from the universe, it seems. My mother would say it was the ghost of my grandmother from the very first book, because it seemed I knew things I was not supposed to know. Instead of writing that the grandmother died accidentally, from an overdose of opium, while having too much of a good time, I actually put down in the story that the woman killed herself, and that actually was the way it happened. And my mother decided that that information must have come from my grandmother. There are also things, quite uncanny, which bring me information that will help me in the writing of the book. In this case, I was writing a story that included some kind of detail, period of history, a certain location. And I needed to find something historically that would match that. And I took down this book, and I — first page that I flipped it to was exactly the setting, and the time period, and the kind of character I needed — was the Taiping rebellion, happening in the area near Guilin, outside of that, and a character who thought he was the son of God. You wonder, are these things random chance? Well, what is random? What is chance? What is luck? What are things that you get from the universe that you can't really explain? And that goes into the story, too. These are the things I constantly think about from day to day. Especially when good things happen, and, in particular, when bad things happen. But I do think there's a kind of serendipity, and I do want to know what those elements are, so I can thank them, and also try to find them in my life. Because, again, I think that when I am aware of them, more of them happen. Another chance encounter is when I went to a place — I just was with some friends, and we drove randomly to a different place, and we ended up in this non-tourist location, a beautiful village, pristine. And we walked three valleys beyond, and the third valley, there was something quite mysterious and ominous, a discomfort I felt. And then I knew that had to be [the] setting of my book. And in writing one of the scenes, it happened in that third valley. For some reason I wrote about cairns — stacks of rocks — that a man was building. And I didn't know exactly why I had it, but it was so vivid. I got stuck, and a friend, when she asked if I would go for a walk with her dogs, that I said, sure. And about 45 minutes later, walking along the beach, I came across this. And it was a man, a Chinese man, and he was stacking these things, not with glue, not with anything. And I asked him, ""How is it possible to do this?"" And he said, ""Well, I guess with everything in life, there's a place of balance."" And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point. I had so many examples — I have so many instances like this, when I'm writing a story, and I cannot explain it. Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidence in writing about these things? Or is it a kind of serendipity that we cannot explain, like the cosmological constant? A big thing that I also think about is accidents. And as I said, my mother did not believe in randomness. What is the nature of accidents? And how are we going to assign what the responsibility and the causes are, outside of a court of law? I was able to see that in a firsthand way, when I went to beautiful Dong village, in Guizhou, the poorest province of China. And I saw this beautiful place. I knew I wanted to come back. And I had a chance to do that, when National Geographic asked me if I wanted to write anything about China. And I said yes, about this village of singing people, singing minority. And they agreed, and between the time I saw this place and the next time I went, there was a terrible accident. A man, an old man, fell asleep, and his quilt dropped in a pan of fire that kept him warm. 60 homes were destroyed, and 40 were damaged. Responsibility was assigned to the family. The man's sons were banished to live three kilometers away, in a cowshed. And, of course, as Westerners, we say, ""Well, it was an accident. That's not fair. It's the son, not the father."" When I go on a story, I have to let go of those kinds of beliefs. It takes a while, but I have to let go of them and just go there, and be there. And so I was there on three occasions, different seasons. And I began to sense something different about the history, and what had happened before, and the nature of life in a very poor village, and what you find as your joys, and your rituals, your traditions, your links with other families. And I saw how this had a kind of justice, in its responsibility. I was able to find out also about the ceremony that they were using, a ceremony they hadn't used in about 29 years. And it was to send some men — a Feng Shui master sent men down to the underworld on ghost horses. Now you, as Westerners, and I, as Westerners, would say well, that's superstition. But after being there for a while, and seeing the amazing things that happened, you begin to wonder whose beliefs are those that are in operation in the world, determining how things happen. So I remained with them, and the more I wrote that story, the more I got into those beliefs, and I think that's important for me — to take on the beliefs, because that is where the story is real, and that is where I'm gonna find the answers to how I feel about certain questions that I have in life. Years go by, of course, and the writing, it doesn't happen instantly, as I'm trying to convey it to you here at TED. The book comes and it goes. When it arrives, it is no longer my book. It is in the hands of readers, and they interpret it differently. But I go back to this question of, how do I create something out of nothing? And how do I create my own life? And I think it is by questioning, and saying to myself that there are no absolute truths. I believe in specifics, the specifics of story, and the past, the specifics of that past, and what is happening in the story at that point. I also believe that in thinking about things — my thinking about luck, and fate, and coincidences and accidents, God's will, and the synchrony of mysterious forces — I will come to some notion of what that is, how we create. I have to think of my role. Where I am in the universe, and did somebody intend for me to be that way, or is it just something I came up with? And I also can find that by imagining fully, and becoming what is imagined — and yet is in that real world, the fictional world. And that is how I find particles of truth, not the absolute truth, or the whole truth. And they have to be in all possibilities, including those I never considered before. So, there are never complete answers. Or rather, if there is an answer, it is to remind myself that there is uncertainty in everything, and that is good, because then I will discover something new. And if there is a partial answer, a more complete answer from me, it is to simply imagine. And to imagine is to put myself in that story, until there was only — there is a transparency between me and the story that I am creating. And that's how I've discovered that if I feel what is in the story — in one story — then I come the closest, I think, to knowing what compassion is, to feeling that compassion. Because for everything, in that question of how things happen, it has to do with the feeling. I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that. We've come to the end of the talk, and I will reveal what is in the bag, and it is the muse, and it is the things that transform in our lives, that are wonderful and stay with us. There she is. Thank you very much! (Applause)"	無的價值：無中可以生有這是我在十一歲時寫的文章題目我得到了B+ (笑)我要談的就是：我們要怎麼樣無中生有我要試著在大會規定的18分鐘內完成這件事並且遵守TED的嚴格戒律也就是實際上造成某種瀕死的體驗不過「瀕死」對創意是有益的(笑) 好 所以我也會解釋因為戴夫艾格思說他會猛烈詰問我如果我說了任何謊話，或是不符合普遍的創意條件而且是對著將近一半是科學家的觀眾這麼說當我說我們的時候，我指的不必然包括你們我指的是我跟我的右腦跟左腦而左右腦之間的是審查器它告訴我我說錯了什麼我也會一併審視我認為屬於我創意過程中的一部份包括許多發生過的事情，而事實上沒有別的事情在這之前發生我正在創造新的東西包括先天的跟後天的我指得是噩夢 先天的部份，我們要看看我們自身是否俱備某種事物，或許...在我們的腦裡，一些不正常的染色體會引發像是靈感的效果有些人說我們天生就有靈感其他人，像是我媽會說我是從過去的的生活得到靈感有些人也會說創意其實是神經突然接錯線某種梵谷症狀—當你有點，你知道，精神不正常，或是陷入低潮我得說，有種人—我最近在書上讀到梵谷不見得是精神異常他可能有癲癇問題那可能激發他創意湧現，而我—假設那會在你的腦中某個部位引發某作用我也會提到事實上我在幾年前也有癲癇問題就發生在我寫上一本書的時候有些人就說那本書讀起來挺不一樣 我認為其中一部份起因於認同的危機感：我是誰啊，我怎麼會那麼與眾不同，我到底是誰？為什麼膚色沒跟其他同學一樣黑？有時候，你就是具備一些技能但不是可以帶來創意的技能我以前還會畫畫。我曾以為我會成為一個畫家這是我畫的迷你貴賓狗似乎還不壞，但實在算不上什麼創意因為我所能做的不過是把它們一個個畫下來而且我想我可能還是從一本書上抄下來的當時我在我真正想要展現的領域以乎並不出色你知道，你看著那些成績，是不差但也絕不可能讓我預測到有天我竟然能用寫作來謀生 創意的其中一項原則是擁有童年的心理創傷我想我有的創傷和一般人一樣你懂的，來自父母對子女過分熱切的期望那具人體模型，順帶一提是我在九歲的時候得到的一件玩具它是從小培養我想成為醫生的物品還有一些持續比較久的心理創傷：從五到十五歲成為一個鋼琴家理應變成我的第二職業但最終它只變成我感覺失敗的來源 但事實上在我人生中是有一些真實的心理創傷發生在我十四歲的時候就是發現我的兄弟，在1967年，然後我的父親六個月以後，雙雙長了腦瘤我母親相信有些事情出錯了她想找出問題，然後解決它我父親是個牧師，他相信神蹟他相信神會解決那些問題但當然，相隔六個月，他們都過世了在那之後，我母親相信那是命運，是詛咒她找遍了宇宙間所有可能的理由來解釋為什麼這件事會發生除了偶然以外所有的理由。她不相信偶然每件事都有原因她相信其中一件原因出自於她的母親她認為早年過世的母親一直怨恨她所以我總被死亡的陰影籠罩著因為我母親還相信我會是下一個，或是她會是下一個當你面對死亡的時候你會開始認真思考每件事情從一種為了生存的角度來說，你開始非常有創造力， 這讓我想到一個大問題一些我今日仍然在想的問題為什麼事情會發生，它們是怎麼發生的？和我母親問的那句：我如何讓這些事情發生的？在撰寫故事的時候，這都是一些很重要的問題因為你必須在三百頁的篇幅中回答這些問題：為什麼事情會這樣發生，它是怎麼發生的事情發生的順序和影響我，身為一個敍述者，一個作者，對這個故事又有什麼影響？我想這也是所有科學家所問的問題我在我的世界中發展出自己的宇宙觀像一個宇宙的創造者。 這中間有許多的反覆嘗試著創造，嘗試著理出頭緒年復一年，總是如此當我想到創作力的時候，我也認為這是因為我無法壓抑對日常生活中幾乎每件事的看法。我在許多事件發生時做觀察在這個大會中，幾乎是所有發生的事情。 讓我在這裡用量子力學做比喻：雖然我並不理解量子力學，但我將以它做為一種過程來解釋為何它是個比喻。在量子力學中，有著暗能量和暗物質。就像我們嘗試解釋事情為何會發生的時候有許多未知，你不知道那是什麼，只知道它不在但當你嘗試找出關聯性時當你希望能在故事中把事件連接起來時而產生綜效時你突然發現了事物的核心。它的意義。這就是我在我的作品中所想要找尋的，對我而言的意義。 在量子力學中還有測不準原理，至少我想是有的。（笑）這也時常發生在寫作中。還有一種可怕的觀者效應，當你在找尋一些事情的時候，那些同時發生的事情，你嘗試用不同角度去看它，你嘗試找出它和其他事物的關聯性，或是這個故事和什麼有關。如果你過分強求，最後你寫下的只是「關聯」。卻什麼也沒發現。而你應該找到的，你真正希望能找到的，在無意中，卻已經不在了。我並不想忽略在宇宙另一邊發生的事，像一些科學家所做的一樣。所以在這裡我也要順便談談弦理論，證明創意人不僅是多面向的，還有著十一種層次的焦慮。（笑）而且它們全部一起發生。 再來還有模棱兩可的問題。像是你們說的宇宙常數。你不明白什麼在運作，但有些事情在運作。模棱兩可是一種非常不舒服的感覺，對我的人生來說但它仍然存在。道德的不確定性總是存在著。舉例來說，最近剛發生了一件事。我讀到一篇由女性寫的報紙的社論內容是關於伊拉克戰爭時。她說，「救一個溺水者，你便得為他的一生負責。」她說這是一句很有名的中國諺語意味著既然我們進入了伊拉克，我們便應該長駐直到事情解決。你知道，就算要上百年還有另一個例子就是「拯救溺水的魚」來自信仰佛教的漁夫們佛教徒基本上不該殺生但漁夫卻仍得謀生，養家為了將殺生合理化，他們聲稱自己是在救溺水的魚但魚不幸地在過程中死了。 暗藏在這兩個溺水故事中的比喻是其中一個說法來自我母親因為這是她對我說這是中國人常說的「救一個溺水者，你便得為他的一生負責。」那是一種警告：別管別人的閒事免得被纏上但我想如果真的有人溺水的話，她還是會救他們的但這兩種說法，不管是救溺水的魚，還是溺水的人，這取決與你的意圖 我們在人生中，都得對我們身邊發生的事情做出反應懷抱著各自的意圖在我們應該做的，和最後真正做了的兩者之間有一些模棱兩可之處而結果也不一定符合我們原本的意圖說不定事情搞砸了。若當如此，我們的責任又在哪？我們該怎麼做？我們該留下來負責還是嘗試合理化我們的行為，說，我的本意是好的所以我不應當負全責？這便是我人生中很難接受的模棱兩可甚至讓我因此寫了本書，就叫做拯救溺水的魚 一旦你意識到這個問題，就發現它無所不在在哪裡都能看到它的痕跡同時我也知道，它們一直都在那裡。在寫作上，我看見這些暗示，這些線索我意識到它們一直都在那，但又隱身不見我需要的是焦點當我有一個問題要問的時候，它就是一個焦點那些在人生中的災難都會過去那個問題，和在那些事件中所發生的事都是有關聯的而且它無處不在，不停發生你以為它不過是偶發事件，或是碰巧發生的或許是來自宇宙的幫忙也可以解釋成，心中有了焦點以後你更能發現它的存在 當你開始應用它你開始檢視那些令你緊張的事情當你的兄弟遇上了麻煩，你該幫助他嗎？為什麼要，又為什麼不要？它或許比你想像的更為嚴肅像緬甸的人權問題我本來想著我是否不應該去，因為有人告訴我我在那裡出現意味著我支持當地的軍權統治但一陣子以後，我自問「為什麼我們要在意他人對我們的想法，或認知？」這和我在成長過程中的感覺很像我身為牧師的父親給我們的所有規則和道德指標最後我決定照我自己的想法去緬甸而我仍然不知道，到了那裡寫一本書，結果又會如何但我只能等到時機出現的時候，再來面對這些問題 我們總是在意這世界上我們所感知的事物我們對自己說：我能做什麼？不是每個人都可以去非洲，或是在醫院工作那當我們產生這個道德感，我們該做什麼？我想今日我們都在關注的一個重要議題是種族滅絕我們再次回到同樣的問題當我遇見這些在道德上模棱兩可，讓我感覺不舒服的事件我的心態又是如何？我認知到這讓我再次回到孩提時所面臨的身份認同議題為什麼我在這裡，人生的意義是什麼我在宇宙間的位置是什麼？ 這看起來似乎很明顯，但一點也不我們都不喜歡道德上的不確定性但這種不確定感確是絕對必要的在我寫作的時候，這便是我開始的地方有時候我似乎得到大宇宙的協助我母親說從第一本書開始，靈感就來自我祖母的鬼魂因為我似乎知道許多我不應該知道的事我沒有描寫我的祖母是因為吃了過量的鴉片而意外過世的而在故事裡描寫那女人自殺了那卻才是真實發生的事我母親認為這些資訊一定來自我祖母的鬼魂。 除此以外，還有一些離奇的事件在寫作時為我帶來了不同的寫作資料當時我正在寫一個古代的故事書中包括那個年代的歷史和地理資料而我需要找到這些歷史來補足故事中的細節我從書架上拿下這本書我翻開的第一頁便是我故事裡的時代和地點和我在描寫太平天國時所需要的人物在一個接近桂林的地方和一個認為他是神的兒子的人物。 你不禁想，這一切都是偶然的嗎？但偶然是什麼？機會是什麼？運氣又是什麼？那些從天而降的靈感又是什麼？這也成為故事的一部分這些是我每天都在思考的事情特別是好事發生時，有時候則是當壞事發生時。但我相信的確存在巧合我想要知道那些元素是什麼，這樣我才能謝謝他們，並且試著在生命中尋找因為我相信當我察覺他們的時候，就越會發生 另一個機遇是當我到某個地方我只是跟一些朋友一起，沒目的地開到某個地方我們停在遊客不會到的地點美麗的懷舊小村莊我們走過三座溪谷在第三個溪谷，我有些神秘的，不舒服的預感我知道這將成為我故事的場景。故事裡的其中一幕便發生在第三個山谷其中一幕我寫到，一個男人，正擺著石堆我不知道為什麼我這樣寫，但那景象很鮮明我陷入了困境，一個朋友問我要不要和她去遛狗我說好。四十五分鐘後我在海灘上遇見了一個男子一個中國男子他正堆著這些東西。沒有膠水，沒有任何工具我問他，這怎麼可能？他說，世間每件事 都有一個平衡點那便是我故事裡所要講的重點在我的寫作過程中 這樣的事時常發生我無法解釋是否因為我有一種特殊的過濾法因為這些強烈的巧合正是我想寫的事？或是這真是一些我們所不能解釋的突發事件 從天而來？ 我也時常想到意外如我所說 我母親從不相信偶然那意外又是什麼？對於那些法律以外的事件，我們又該如何處理面對它們的責任歸屬？我有一個切身的經驗我曾經到中國最貧窮的貴州省裡的侗族我看見這個美麗的地方 我知道我想再回來當國家地理雜誌問我想不想寫一些有關中國的文章我知道我的機會來了我說好，我想寫這個唱歌的少數民族它們同意了。就在我兩次拜訪中間一個悲慘的意外發生了。一個老人在睡眠中把被子掉在了暖爐上六十戶人家全毀，四十戶遭到損壞這個家庭被要求得擔負責任老人的兒子被放逐到三公里外的牛棚西方人會說：但那是個不過是個意外，這不公平父債不該子還 但當我下筆寫這個故事的時候，我得放棄那些原來的想法這得花上一些時間，但是我必須克服自己，純粹得去那裡親身經歷。所以我在不同的季節裡去了三次在這個貧窮的村莊裡 我開始對歷史之前發生的事件 和人生的本質 有了不同的感受什麼是讓你感到快樂的，你的儀式, 你的傳統，我們和其他家庭產生關係的方式。我開始明白這樣的責任歸屬中，有它自己的正義。我也開始瞭解他們使用的儀式。一個二十九年沒用過的儀式。讓一個風水師送一些人 乘著鬼馬進陰間。你，身為一個西方人，如我，身為一個西方人，會說：那不過是迷信。但在那裡待了一段時間以後，親眼見識到這些神奇的事，你開始想，究竟是誰的信仰，運作在這個世界上，決定事情該如何發生。 所以我決定留下來和他們一起 ，我寫的越多，我便越相信這些信仰，這對我來說是重要的—去真正接受這些信仰，因為這樣，故事才能真實，那便是我找到的答案來解決我人生問題的地方。隨著時間過去，我也寫了很多作品，但這不是在一瞬間發生的，在這裡，我想對你們說的是書來了又走。當它來到的時候，它已不再屬於我，而在每個讀者手中，他們有不同的解讀。但我仍然回到同樣的問題，我如何無中生有？我如何創造自己的生命？ 藉由對它提出問題，並告訴我自己，世上沒有絕對真實。我相信那些具體的事，故事中的細節，和往事，往事中的細節，及當時故事中所發生的事。我也相信，在我們考量著這些，有關運氣 、命運 、巧合和意外，天意，和這些神秘力量的互動時，我將會對我們的創造力有些概念。我思考自己的角色 在宇宙中的原因是否有人要我成為現在這個樣子，或是那完全出於我自己？我可以藉著想像來找到答案，或成為自己想像的模樣在那真實世界，虛構世界，這便是我找到部分真理的辦法，不是絕對的，或是完全的真理，它們仍有許多可能性。包括那些我從未想到的 從沒有完整的答案就算有，也是為了提醒我自己。一切都是變化無常的那是件好事，因為我總能發現新東西如果有一個片段的答案，一個更完整的答案便是簡單的想像想像是將自己放進故事裡直到我跟我所創造的故事之間什麼都沒有 這就是我如何發覺故事中的情節那麼 ，我便接近了，懂得了什麼是同感，或是如何感受同感因為對每一件事來說疑問事情怎麼發生，這其中必然帶有情感我必須成為故事，才能了解這場演說到了尾聲而我將揭露隱藏的秘密，就是謬思靈感的來源就是這玩意改變了我們的生活美好且一直與我們在一起就是她謝謝你們(鼓掌)
