Talk	en	zh-tw
anand_agarawala_demos_his_bumptop_desktop	"So, I kind of believe that we're in like the ""cave-painting"" era of computer interfaces. Like, they're very kind of — they don't go as deep or as emotionally engaging as they possibly could be and I'd like to change all that. Hit me. OK. So I mean, this is the kind of status quo interface, right? It's very flat, kind of rigid. And OK, so you could sex it up and like go to a much more lickable Mac, you know, but really it's the kind of same old crap we've had for the last, you know, 30 years. (Laughter) (Applause) Like I think we really put up with a lot of crap with our computers. I mean it's point and click, it's like the menus, icons, it's all the kind of same thing. And so one kind of information space that I take inspiration from is my real desk. It's so much more subtle, so much more visceral — you know, what's visible, what's not. And I'd like to bring that experience to the desktop. So I kind of have a — this is BumpTop. It's kind of like a new approach to desktop computing. So you can bump things — they're all physically, you know, manipulable and stuff. And instead of that point and click, it's like a push and pull, things collide as you'd expect them. Just like on my real desk, I can — let me just grab these guys — I can turn things into piles instead of just the folders that we have. And once things are in a pile I can browse them by throwing them into a grid, or you know, flip through them like a book or I can lay them out like a deck of cards. When they're laid out, I can pull things to new locations or delete things or just quickly sort a whole pile, you know, just immediately, right? And then, it's all smoothly animated, instead of these jarring changes you see in today's interfaces. Also, if I want to add something to a pile, well, how do I do that? I just toss it to the pile, and it's added right to the top. It's a kind of nice way. Also some of the stuff we can do is, for these individual icons we thought — I mean, how can we play with the idea of an icon, and push that further? And one of the things I can do is make it bigger if I want to emphasize it and make it more important. But what's really cool is that since there's a physics simulation running under this, it's actually heavier. So the lighter stuff doesn't really move but if I throw it at the lighter guys, right? (Laughter) So it's cute, but it's also like a subtle channel of conveying information, right? This is heavy so it feels more important. So it's kind of cool. Despite computers everywhere paper really hasn't disappeared, because it has a lot of, I think, valuable properties. And some of those we wanted to transfer to the icons in our system. So one of the things you can do to our icons, just like paper, is crease them and fold them, just like paper. Remember, you know, something for later. Or if you want to be destructive, you can just crumple it up and, you know, toss it to the corner. Also just like paper, around our workspace we'll pin things up to the wall to remember them later, and I can do the same thing here, and you know, you'll see post-it notes and things like that around people's offices. And I can pull them off when I want to work with them. So, one of the criticisms of this kind of approach to organization is that, you know, ""Okay, well my real desk is really messy. I don't want that mess on my computer."" So one thing we have for that is like a grid align, kind of — so you get that more traditional desktop. Things are kind of grid aligned. More boring, but you still have that kind of colliding and bumping. And you can still do fun things like make shelves on your desktop. Let's just break this shelf. Okay, that shelf broke. I think beyond the icons, I think another really cool domain for this software — I think it applies to more than just icons and your desktop — but browsing photographs. I think you can really enrich the way we browse our photographs and bring it to that kind of shoebox of, you know, photos with your family on the kitchen table kind of thing. I can toss these things around. They're so much more tangible and touchable — and you know I can double-click on something to take a look at it. And I can do all that kind of same stuff I showed you before. So I can pile things up, I can flip through it, I can, you know — okay, let's move this photo to the back, let's delete this guy here, and I think it's just a much more rich kind of way of interacting with your information. And that's BumpTop. Thanks!"	我認為，我們目前使用的電腦介面還停留在「岩石壁畫」時代。譬如說，電腦介面似乎缺乏了一些應有的東西，以至於沒辦法深深打動使用者的芳心。所以我想做點改變。那麼，開始吧。如各位所見，這就是我們目前使用的電腦介面，對吧？看起來既平面又死板。雖然你可以點綴一下，讓桌面看起來就像可口的蘋果電腦，不過，你也知道，這只是種大家都用過的陳腔「爛貨」罷了，而且「只」用了30年。(笑聲 & 掌聲)我覺得，我們電腦中的破爛產品真的是太多了。我的意思是，我們的桌面上只有小圖示，而且就只能不斷地到處點擊，實在是了無新意。 於是我從我工作的書桌桌面上，得到了一些靈感。它將讓整個介面更細緻，更深入人心。任何看得見或看不見的東西，都將一目瞭然。我想把使用書桌的經驗移到電腦桌面上，於是我發明了「BumpTop」。這是個對於傳統電腦桌面的嶄新突破。你可以讓桌面上的東西撞來撞去，就好像實物一般，而且你也不再需要到處點擊，取而代之的是到處拖拉，彷彿你就在一個真正的書桌前面。讓我把它們框起來...我還可以把它們疊成一疊，我們現有的資料夾絕對裝不下。疊成一疊後，我還可以把它們排成網狀來瀏覽，或是像書本一樣翻閱，或是像在玩紙牌一樣攤開。攤開後，你可以調換它們的位置，或是刪除它們，或是重新疊成一疊，非常地迅速確實，對吧？整個介面非常生動，不像現有的介面那樣呆板老套。 還有，如果我想疊上新的物件，該怎麼做呢？我只要把物件拋過去，它就會自動疊到最頂端，非常地方便。此外，我們還可以在這些圖示上動點手腳。我的意思是，我們如何進一步把玩這些圖示呢？舉例來說，我們可以把某些圖示放大，以突顯這個圖示的重要性。 但最酷的是，現實世界中的物理法則在這裡也適用。愈大就代表它愈重，所以其他較小的圖示會對這個大傢伙沒轍，但如果我把它丟向其他小不點...看吧！(笑聲)這非常有趣，也是一種傳達訊息的巧妙管道，對吧？因為它很重，所以讓人感覺它很重要，實在是酷斃了。 雖然現在電腦很普及，但是紙張這種東西並沒有因此而消失。我認為，那是因為紙張有很多很棒的特性。我想把這些特性應用在我們的電腦圖示上，所以你可以自由地摺疊桌面上的圖示，就宛如在折疊真正的紙張一般。如果你特別喜歡搞破壞，你還可以把它胡亂揉成一團，然後扔到角落。此外，我們還可以把圖示貼到工作空間的牆壁上，以提醒自己不要忘東忘西，這裡也來貼一張，就好像辦公室的牆上總是貼滿便條紙一樣。當我要用到這些圖示時，就把它們拿下來。 不過，有人對這種充滿空間感的設計提出了批評。他們會說：「我的書桌已經夠亂了，我可不想要我的電腦桌面也一樣亂。」所以我們增加了自動對齊的功能，這樣看起來就比較整齊，比較像傳統的電腦桌面，雖然還是有撞擊的效果，但使用起來蠻無趣的。不過你還是可以做些有趣的事，像是在桌面上弄個書架出來， 然後把它拆了...好，這個書架毀了。我覺得這套軟體很酷的地方就在於我們可以把它應用到電腦圖示以外的地方，譬如瀏覽相片。我覺得，它可以讓我們瀏覽相片的過程變得更豐富有趣就好像我們把相片貼在鞋櫃上，或是擺在餐桌上和家人一起欣賞之類的。我可以隨意擺放這些相片。非常俱有真實感。我還可以點擊兩下把它放大仔細欣賞。而且我剛剛示範過的效果都能應用在相片瀏覽上，像是把它們疊成一疊、像書本一樣翻閱，或是移動相片的位置、刪除某張相片。我認為，這種交換訊息的方法會更有趣，更深入人心。 以上就是關於「BumpTop」的介紹，謝謝大家！
