Talk	en	zh-tw
anand_giridharadas_a_tale_of_two_americas_and_the_mini_mart_where_they_collided	"""Where are you from?"" said the pale, tattooed man. ""Where are you from?"" It's September 21, 2001, 10 days after the worst attack on America since World War II. Everyone wonders about the next plane. People are looking for scapegoats. The president,  the night before, pledges to ""bring our enemies to justice  or bring justice to our enemies."" And in the Dallas mini-mart, a Dallas mini-part surrounded by tire shops and strip joints a Bangladeshi immigrant  works the register. Back home, Raisuddin Bhuiyan was a big man, an Air Force officer. But he dreamed of a  fresh start in America. If he had to work briefly in a mini-mart to save up for I.T. classes and his wedding in two months, so be it. Then, on September 21,  that tattooed man enters the mart. He holds a shotgun. Raisuddin knows the drill: puts cash on the counter. This time, the man doesn't  touch the money. ""Where are you from?"" he asks. ""Excuse me?"" Raisuddin answers. His accent betrays him. The tattooed man, a self-styled true American vigilante, shoots Raisuddin in revenge for 9/11. Raisuddin feels millions of bees stinging his face. In fact, dozens of scalding,  birdshot pellets puncture his head. Behind the counter, he lays in blood. He cups a hand over his forehead to keep in the brains on which he'd gambled everything. He recites verses from the Koran, begging his God to live. He senses he is dying. He didn't die. His right eye left him. His fiancée left him. His landlord, the mini-mart owner, kicked him out. Soon he was homeless and  60,000 dollars in medical debt, including a fee for dialing  for an ambulance. But Raisuddin lived. And years later, he would ask what he could do to repay his God and become worthy of this second chance. He would come to believe, in fact, that this chance called for him to give a second chance to a man we might think deserved no chance at all. Twelve years ago, I was a fresh graduate seeking my way in the world. Born in Ohio to Indian immigrants, I settled on the ultimate rebellion  against my parents, moving to the country they had worked so damn hard to get out of. What I thought might be a six-month stint in Mumbai stretched to six years. I became a writer and found myself amid a magical story: the awakening of hope across much of the so-called Third World. Six years ago, I returned to America and realized something: The American Dream was thriving, but only in India. In America, not so much. In fact, I observed that  America was fracturing into two distinct societies: a republic of dreams and a republic of fears. And then, I stumbled onto this  incredible tale of two lives and of these two Americas that brutally collided in that Dallas mini-mart. I knew at once I wanted to learn more, and eventually that I would write a book about them, for their story was the story  of America's fracturing and of how it might be put back together. After he was shot, Raisuddin's life grew no easier. The day after admitting him, the hospital discharged him. His right eye couldn't see. He couldn't speak. Metal peppered his face. But he had no insurance,  so they bounced him. His family in Bangladesh  begged him, ""Come home."" But he told them he had  a dream to see about. He found telemarketing work, then he became an Olive Garden waiter, because where better to get over his fear of white people than the Olive Garden? (Laughter) Now, as a devout Muslim, he refused alcohol, didn't touch the stuff. Then he learned that not selling it would slash his pay. So he reasoned, like a budding  American pragmatist, ""Well, God wouldn't want me to starve, would he?"" And before long, in some months,  Raisuddin was that Olive Garden's highest grossing alcohol pusher. He found a man who taught him database administration. He got part-time I.T. gigs. Eventually, he landed a six-figure job at a blue chip tech company in Dallas. But as America began to work for Raisuddin, he avoided the classic error of the fortunate: assuming you're the rule,  not the exception. In fact, he observed that many with the fortune of being born American were nonetheless trapped in lives that  made second chances like his impossible. He saw it at the Olive Garden itself, where so many of his colleagues had childhood horror stories of family dysfunction, chaos,  addiction, crime. He'd heard a similar tale about the man who shot him back when he attended his trial. The closer Raisuddin got to the America he had coveted from afar, the more he realized there was another, equally real, America that was stingier with second chances. The man who shot Raisuddin grew up in that stingier America. From a distance, Mark Stroman was always the spark of parties, always making girls feel pretty. Always working, no matter what  drugs or fights he'd had the night before. But he'd always wrestled with demons. He entered the world through the three gateways that doom so many young American men: bad parents, bad schools, bad prisons. His mother told him, regretfully, as a boy that she'd been just 50 dollars  short of aborting him. Sometimes, that little boy  would be at school, he'd suddenly pull a knife  on his fellow classmates. Sometimes that same little boy would be at his grandparents', tenderly feeding horses. He was getting arrested before he shaved, first juvenile, then prison. He became a casual white supremacist and, like so many around him,  a drug-addled and absent father. And then, before long, he found himself on death row, for in his 2001 counter-jihad,  he had shot not one mini-mart clerk, but three. Only Raisuddin survived. Strangely, death row was  the first institution that left Stroman better. His old influences quit him. The people entering his life  were virtuous and caring: pastors, journalists, European pen-pals. They listened to him, prayed with him, helped him question himself. And sent him on a journey  of introspection and betterment. He finally faced the hatred  that had defined his life. He read Viktor Frankl,  the Holocaust survivor and regretted his swastika tattoos. He found God. Then one day in 2011,  10 years after his crimes, Stroman received news. One of the men he'd shot, the survivor, was fighting to save his life. You see, late in 2009, eight years after that shooting, Raisuddin had gone on his own journey, a pilgrimage to Mecca. Amid its crowds,  he felt immense gratitude, but also duty. He recalled promising God,  as he lay dying in 2001, that if he lived, he would serve  humanity all his days. Then, he'd gotten busy  relaying the bricks of a life. Now it was time to pay his debts. And he decided, upon reflection, that his method of payment would be an intervention  in the cycle of vengeance between the Muslim and Western worlds. And how would he intervene? By forgiving Stroman publicly in the name of Islam and its doctrine of mercy. And then suing the state of Texas and its governor Rick Perry to prevent them from executing Stroman, exactly like most people  shot in the face do. (Laughter) Yet Raisuddin's mercy was inspired  not only by faith. A newly minted American citizen, he had come to believe that Stroman was the product of a hurting America that couldn't just be lethally injected away. That insight is what moved me  to write my book ""The True American."" This immigrant begging America  to be as merciful to a native son as it had been to an adopted one. In the mini-mart, all those years earlier, not just two men,  but two Americas collided. An America that still dreams,  still strives, still imagines that tomorrow can build on today, and an America that has resigned to fate, buckled under stress and chaos, lowered expectations, an ducked into the oldest of refuges: the tribal fellowship of one's own narrow kind. And it was Raisuddin, despite being a newcomer, despite being attacked, despite being homeless and traumatized, who belonged to that republic of dreams and Stroman who belonged to that  other wounded country, despite being born with the privilege of a native white man. I realized these men's stories formed an urgent parable about America. The country I am so proud to call my own wasn't living through a  generalized decline as seen in Spain or Greece,  where prospects were dimming for everyone. America is simultaneously the most and the least successful country in the industrialized world. Launching the world's best companies, even as record numbers  of children go hungry. Seeing life-expectancy drop for large groups, even as it polishes  the world's best hospitals. America today is a sprightly young body, hit by one of those strokes  that sucks the life from one side, while leaving the other worryingly perfect. On July 20, 2011, right after  a sobbing Raisuddin testified in defense of Stroman's life, Stroman was killed by lethal injection by the state he so loved. Hours earlier, when Raisuddin still thought he could still save Stroman, the two men got to speak  for the second time ever. Here is an excerpt from their phone call. Raisuddin: ""Mark, you should know  that I am praying for God, the most compassionate and gracious. I forgive you and I do not hate you. I never hated you."" Stroman: ""You are a remarkable person. Thank you from my heart. I love you, bro."" Even more amazingly, after the execution, Raisuddin reached out to Stroman's  eldest daughter, Amber, an ex-convinct and an addict. and offered his help. ""You may have lost a father,"" he told her, ""but you've gained an uncle."" He wanted her, too, to have  a second chance. If human history were a parade, America's float would be  a neon shrine to second chances. But America, generous with second chances to the children of other lands, today grows miserly with first chances to the children of its own. America still dazzles at allowing anybody to become an American. But it is losing its luster at allowing every American to become a somebody. Over the last decade, seven million foreigners gained American citizenship. Remarkable. In the meanwhile, how many Americans gained a place in the middle class? Actually, the net influx was negative. Go back further,  and it's even more striking: Since the 60s, the middle class has shrunk by 20 percent, mainly because of the people tumbling out of it. And my reporting around the country tells me the problem is grimmer than simple inequality. What I observe is a pair of secessions from the unifying center of American life. An affluent secession of up, up and away, into elite enclaves of the educated and into a global matrix of work, money and connections, and an impoverished secession  of down and out into disconnected, dead-end lives that the fortunate scarcely see. And don't console yourself  that you are the 99 percent. If you live near a Whole Foods, if no one in your family serves  in the military, if you're paid by the year, not the hour, if most people you know finished college, if no one you know uses meth, if you married once and remain married, if you're not one of 65 million Americans with a criminal record — if any or all of these things  describe you, then accept the possibility that actually, you may not know what's going on and you may be part of the problem. Other generations had to build  a fresh society after slavery, pull through a depression, defeat fascism, freedom-ride in Mississippi. The moral challenge of  my generation, I believe, is to reacquaint these two Americas, to choose union over secession once again. This ins't a problem we can tax or tax-cut away. It won't be solved by tweeting harder, building slicker apps, or starting one more  artisanal coffee roasting service. It is a moral challenge that begs  each of us in the flourishing America to take on the wilting America as our own, as Raisuddin tried to do. Like him, we can make pilgrimages. And there, in Baltimore and Oregon  and Appalachia, find new purpose, as he did. We can immerse ourselves  in that other country, bear witness to its hopes and sorrows, and, like Raisuddin, ask what we can do. What can you do? What can you do? What can we do? How might we build  a more merciful country? We, the greatest inventors in the world, can invent solutions to the problems  of that America, not only our own. We, the writers and the journalists,  can cover that America's stories, instead of shutting down  bureaus in its midst. We can finance that America's ideas, instead of ideas from New York  and San Francisco. We can put our stethoscopes to its backs, teach there, go to court there, make there, live there, pray there. This, I believe, is the calling  of a generation. An America whose two halves learn again to stride, to plow, to forge, to dare together. A republic of chances, rewoven, renewed, begins with us. Thank you. (Applause)"	"「你是哪個國家來的？」一個紋身白人男子問。「你是哪個國家來的？！」這一天是 2001 年 9 月 21 日，是美國自二次大戰以來所遭遇最駭人的恐怖襲擊後第 10 天。每個人都擔心下一架飛機會怎樣。大家都在找替罪羔羊。美國總統，在前一晚誓言：「將敵人繩之以法，或以公義之名嚴懲！」 而在達拉斯的一家超商，周圍滿是車胎行和脫衣舞廳，有一個孟加拉新移民，在這裡做收銀員。在家鄉，Raisuddin Bhuiyan是個有身分地位的空軍軍官，但他夢想來美國展開全新的人生，即使得暫時屈就超商的收銀工作，存錢上電腦課程、為兩個月後的婚禮籌措資金，他也甘願。 然後，在 9 月 21 日這一天，那名紋身白人男子闖入了這家超商，手裡拿著一把霰彈槍，Raisuddin 知道該怎麼做，就把現金乖乖擺在收銀台上。不過這一次，男子並沒有拿錢。「你是哪個國家來的？」男子問。「您說什麼？」Raisuddin 回問，他的口音洩漏了種族背景，這個紋著身、自以為在捍衛美國治安的男子，以為 9/11 事件復仇為名，開槍射了 Raisuddin，Raisuddin 突然感覺好像幾百萬隻蜜蜂刺著他的臉，其實，是好幾十顆小鉛彈打爛了他的頭， 他在收銀台後倒下，躺在血泊中。他一隻手壓住額頭，硬把腦漿壓回去，畢竟這腦子是他花了一輩子心血培養的。他誦唸著可蘭經的經句，祈求他的真主讓他活下去。他感覺到自己快要死了。 可是他並沒有死。他失去了左眼，未婚妻也離開了他。他的房東，也是那家超商的老闆，把他趕走。他一下子無家可歸，還欠了 6 萬美金的醫藥費，包括叫救護車的電話費。但他終究還是活了下來。 幾年以後，他一直自問，可以做什麼才能報答他的真主，也才配得這個重生的機會。他逐漸相信，事實上，他的重生，是要教他也給別人第二次機會──給那個絲毫不配的暴徒。 12 年前，我大學剛畢業，正在尋找自己的出路。我在俄亥俄州出生，爸媽來自印度。我做了一個最忤逆父母的決定，就是搬回到他們費盡千辛萬苦才逃離的國家。我本來想在孟買待 6 個月，結果待了 6 年，我開始寫作，而且置身一個不可思議的故事中：希望，正在所謂的第三世界中甦醒過來。6 年前我回到美國，發覺：美國夢正在壯大，但只有在印度。在美國本身，並沒有。 事實上，我看到美國正在分裂，變成天壤地別的兩個社會：一個夢想共和國，和一個恐懼共和國。然後我發現這兩個生命的驚人故事，和在那個達拉斯超商裡殘忍對撞的兩個美國。一開始我就知道，我想追蹤這個故事，最後，寫成一本書。因為他們的故事，就是美國分裂的故事，更透現著美國如何能重新癒合的曙光。 被槍襲後，Raisuddin 的生活更加艱困，送醫後第二天，醫院就請他出院。他的右眼失明，他無法說話，滿臉都是鉛彈，但是因為沒有保險，所以醫院不收留他。他在孟加拉的家人央求他：「快回家吧！」但他告訴他們，他要完成夢想。 他找到了電話行銷的工作，接著到橄欖園高級餐廳當服務生，因為，哪裡比這更適合克服對白人的恐懼呢？（觀眾笑聲）他虔信穆斯林教，所以不喝酒，滴酒不沾。但他發現，不賣酒會影響收入，所以他學得像個美國實用主義者那樣自我推論：「上帝不會希望我餓肚子，不是嗎？」很快地，短短幾個月後，Raisuddin 變成那家餐廳業績最好的酒品促銷員。他找到一個人，教他資料庫管理，兼差做資訊科技工作。最後，在達拉斯一家績優股科技公司獲得年薪百萬美金的工作。 但是當 Raisuddin 在美國開始順利，他沒有犯許多成功者的典型錯誤：把成功視為理所當然，而不是少數人的偶然。其實，他看到許多幸運土生土長的美國人，卻生活困頓，毫無像他那樣的第二次機會。他在橄欖園餐廳就親眼看到，很多同事經歷過可怕的童年，充滿了家庭失和、混亂、成癮、犯罪。那個開槍襲擊他的人，也有類似的背景，Raisuddin 是在出庭時聽到他的故事。Raisuddin 越靠近他曾經夢想的美國，就越發現另一個同樣真實的美國，一個不給第二次機會的美國。槍擊他的人，就是在這一個嚴酷的美國長大。 表面上看來，Mark Stroman 總是派對焦點，很會把妹。不管前一晚吸毒或幹架，隔天照常上班。但他一直擺脫不了心魔。他的成長背景，有三條途徑，每一條都注定了許多年輕美國男子的厄運：不良父母、不良學校、不良監獄。小時候，媽媽懊悔地跟他說，若非當時缺 50 塊美金，早就把他墮胎了。有時候，這個小男孩在學校，會突然對同學拔刀。有時候，同樣這個小男孩，會在祖父母家，溫柔地餵馬。他還沒長鬍子，就坐過牢。先是少年感化院，然後又進監獄。他相信白人比較優越，應該掌權，而且，像周遭許多人一樣，他也變成了毒蟲、缺席的父親。再過不久，終於面臨死刑。因為在他 2001 年自詡反聖戰行動中，他不只射殺一個超商店員，他槍襲了三個人。只有 Raisuddin 活了下來。 奇異的是，死囚監獄是第一個真正改變 Stroman 的地方。他戒掉壞習慣，在這裡遇到的人品德好，且關懷別人：牧師、記者、歐洲的筆友。他們傾聽他的心聲，跟他一起禱告，幫助他自我探索，展開自省和成長的旅程，他終於面對挾制了他一生的仇恨意識。他讀大屠殺倖存者 Viktor Frankl 的書，後悔自己有納粹黨十字記號刺青。他找到了上帝。然後 2011 年，他犯罪的 10 年後，有一天 Stroman 聽到了這個消息：當年他槍襲的其中一人，正在爭取讓他活命。 原來，2009 年底，槍擊事件 8 年後，Raisuddin 也展開了生命旅程，前往麥加朝聖。在朝聖人潮中，他深深感恩，也體悟到使命感。他想起 2001 年生命垂危時曾經答應過上帝，如果他能存活，他將奉獻餘生服務人類。後來，他忙於重建自己的生活。現在，該是還債的時候了。深思後，他決定他回報上帝的方式，是介入報復的惡性循環──穆斯林和西方國家之間的冤冤相報。那麼，他要怎麼介入呢？他決定公開原諒 Stroman，以伊斯蘭的聖名和其慈悲的教誨。然後對德州和州長 Rick Perry 提告，以制止他們處死 Stroman，正像大多數被槍襲的人會做的事。（觀眾笑聲） Raisuddin 的慈悲不只是因信仰的教導，剛成為美國公民的他相信Stroman 是受傷美國的產物，不是處死刑就能癒合的傷痛。這個洞見，啟發了我寫""The True American"" 這本書。這位新移民，懇求美國能夠對親生兒子發慈悲，如同對他這個養子一樣。當年在那家超商，不只是兩個男子，而是兩個美國的撞擊，一個美國依然懷抱夢想、持續茁壯、相信明天建構在今日的基礎之上；另一個美國接受宿命、被壓力和混亂壓垮、失去盼望、只能躲進歷史最悠久的避難所：遁入一個狹隘的、想像的族群。然而卻是 Raisuddin──儘管是個新移民、儘管被襲擊、儘管無家可歸、歷經創傷──才屬於這個夢想共和國；而 Stroman 卻屬於受傷的那個美國，儘管他有幸生為白皮膚的本國人。 我體認到，他們的故事是關於美國的迫切寓言。這個我驕傲歸屬的國家並不是正在全面的衰微，不像西班牙或希臘全國人民都在受苦。美國是工業化世界裡最成功、同時也最失敗的國家。創立全球最佳企業，挨餓的兒童人數卻打破紀錄。大批族群國民的壽命縮短，縱使擁有世界一流的醫院。今日的美國，是個年輕有活力的身體，半身中風，癱瘓無力，另外半身卻完美無暇到令人憂心的地步。 2011 年 7 月 20 日，就是在 Raisuddin 哽咽陳情──為 Stroman 請命不久之後，Stroman 死於死刑藥劑之下，由他鍾愛的州行刑。行刑前幾小時，Raisuddin 還抱持一線希望，兩人在槍襲事件後第一次對話。以下是他們通電話的一段內容：Raisuddin：「Mark，我要你知道我在向上帝祈禱，最悲憫仁慈的神，我原諒你，也不恨你。我從沒有恨過你。」Stroman：「你真了不起。我打從心裡感激你。我愛你，我的兄弟。」 更動人的是，行刑之後，Raisuddin 連絡上 Stroman 的長女 Amber，一個有前科和毒癮的女孩，他想幫助她。「妳雖然失去了父親，」他對她說，「卻得到了一個舅父。」他希望她也能有第二次機會。 如果人類歷史是一個遊行，美國花車就像第二次機會的霓虹神龕。然而美國，雖然大方給予移民之子第二次機會，今天卻連第一次機會都吝於給予親生之子。美國仍然以開放移民成為美國人而令人炫目，卻無法扶植本國人順利成功，因而漸失光彩。 過去 10 年，有 7 百萬移民成為美國公民。很了不起。同時，有多少美國人成為中產階級？事實上，淨流入量是負值。再往前追溯，統計更驚人：從 60 年代到今天，中產階級縮減了 2 成，大多是因為人們掉出這個階級。我的國內研究報告顯示，這個問題的嚴重性不單只是因為不平等。我觀察到的是從美國中心分裂開來的兩個社會：一個是飛黃騰達的富裕社會，教育菁英的上流圈子，擁有全球的事業、財富和人脈關係；另一個是潦倒不堪的窮困社會，孤立無援、永無翻身之日，人生勝利組看不到的社會。 但不要以為你屬於那 99%而感到欣慰。如果你住的社區有健康有機超市，如果你家族沒有人從軍，如果你賺的是年薪而不是時薪，如果你認識的人學歷幾乎都是大學以上，如果你的親友沒有吸毒，如果你一結婚就不曾離婚，如果你不像 6 千 5 百萬美國人一樣有犯罪紀錄，如果以上敘述你符合任何一項或全部，那你應該接受這個可能性：其實，你可能根本不了解現實狀況，而且你很可能就是問題本身。 其他世代必須在解放奴隸後重建社會、捱過經濟大蕭條、擊敗法西斯主義、冒險自由乘車進入密西西比為種族平等奮鬥。我相信，我這個世代的道德挑戰是要讓這兩個美國重新認識彼此，再度選擇團結，揚棄分裂。這不是增減稅收就能解決的問題，也不能靠用力推文、或開發更聰明的 App，或提供更多手工咖啡烘培服務。這是道德的挑戰，呼籲在繁榮美國的每一個人肩挑起枯萎的那個美國，謀人事如己事，就像 Raisuddin 致力的目標。 就像他，我們也能踏上朝聖之旅，無論是巴爾的摩、俄勒岡、阿帕拉契亞，都能像他一樣找到新的目的。我們可以融入另外那一個國家，親身證歷它的希望與憂傷，並且就像 Raisuddin 一樣，自問我們能做什麼。你能做什麼？你能做什麼？我們能做什麼？我們如何建造一個更慈悲的國家？ 我們這些世界最偉大的發明家能找出另外那個美國問題的解答，不只是我們自己的。我們這些作家和新聞人員可以報導那個美國的故事，而不是任其事務半途而廢。我們可以為那個美國的構想出資，而不總是金援紐約和舊金山。我們可以為她的背聽診，去那裡教書、開庭、製造、居住、祈禱。 這，我相信，是一個世代的使命。美國的兩個分化社會重新學習如何共同攜手邁步、耕耘、開拓、迎接挑戰。一個充滿機會的共和國──重新交織、重新建造，始於我們。 謝謝。（觀眾掌聲）"
