Talk	en	zh-tw
anand_giridharadas_a_letter_to_all_who_have_lost_in_this_era	"June 29, 2016. My dear fellow citizen: I write to you today, to you who have lost in this era. At this moment in our common life, when the world is full of breaking and spite and fear, I address this letter simply to you, even though we both know there are many of you behind this ""you,"" and many of me behind this ""I."" I write to you because at present, this quaking world we share scares me. I gather it scares you, too. Some of what we fear, I suspect, we fear in common. But much of what we fear seems to be each other. You fear the world I want to live in, and I fear your visions in turn. Do you know that feeling you get when you know it's going to storm before it storms? Do you also feel that now, fellow citizen? That malaise and worry that some who know feel reminds them of the 1930s? Perhaps you don't, because our fears of each other are not in sync. In this round, I sense that your fears of me, of the world that I have insisted is right for us both, has gathered over a generation. It took time for your fears to trigger my fears, not least because at first, I never thought I needed to fear you. I heard you but did not listen, all these years when you said that this amazing new world wasn't amazing for you, for many of you, across the industrialized world; that the open, liquid world I relished, of people and goods and technologies flowing freely, going where they pleased, globally, was not, for you, an emancipation. I have walked through your towns and, while looking, failed to see. I did notice in Stephenville, Texas, that the town square was dominated by one lawyer's office after another, because of all the people rotating in and out of the prison. I did notice the barren shops in Wagner, South Dakota, and the VFW gathering hall that stood in mockery of a community's dream to endure. I did notice at the Lancaster, Pennsylvania Wal-Mart, that far too many people in their 20s and 30s looked a decade or two from death, with patchy, flared-up skin and thinning, stringy hair and browning, ground-down teeth and a lostness in their eyes. I did notice that the young people I encountered in Paris, in Florence, in Barcelona, had degrees but no place to take them, living on internships well into their 30s, their lives prevented from launching, because of an economy that creates wealth — just not jobs. I did notice the news about those parts of London becoming ghost quarters, where the global super-rich turn fishy money into empty apartments and price lifelong residents of a city, young couples starting out, out of their own home. And I heard that the fabric of your life was tearing. You used to be able to count on work, and now you couldn't. You used to be able to nourish your children, and guarantee that they would climb a little bit further in life than you had, and now you couldn't. You used to be made to feel dignity in your work, and now you didn't. It used to be normal for people like you to own a home, and now it wasn't. I cannot say I didn't know these things, but I was distracted creating a future in which we could live on Mars, even as you struggled down here on Earth. I was distracted innovating immortality, even as many of you began to live shorter lives than your parents had. I heard all of these things, but I didn't listen. I looked but didn't see. I read, didn't understand. I paid attention only when you began to vote and shout, and when your voting and shouting, when the substance of it, began to threaten me. I listened only when you moved toward shattering continental unions and electing vulgar demagogues. Only then did your pain become of interest to me. I know that feeling hurt is often prologue to dealing hurt. I wonder now if you would be less eager to deal it if I had stood with you when you merely felt it. I ask myself why I didn't stand with you then. One reason is that I became entranced by the gurus of change, became a worshiper of the religion of the new for novelty's sake, and of globalization and open borders and kaleidoscopic diversity. Once change became my totalizing faith, I could be blind. I could fail to see change's consequences. I could overlook the importance of roots, traditions, rituals, stability — and belonging. And the more fundamentalist I became in my worship of change and openness, the more I drove you towards the other polarity, to cling, to freeze, to close, to belong. I now see as I didn't before that not having the right skin or right organ is not the only varietal of disadvantage. There is a subtler, quieter disadvantage in having those privileged traits and yet feeling history to be moving away from you; that while the past was hospitable to people like you, the future will be more hospitable to others; that the world is growing less familiar, less yours day by day. I will not concede for a moment that old privileges should not dwindle. They cannot dwindle fast enough. It is for you to learn to live in a new century in which there are no bonuses for showing up with the right skin and right organs. If and when your anger turns to hate, please know that there is no space for that in our shared home. But I will admit, fellow citizen, that I have discounted the burden of coping with the loss of status. I have forgotten that what is socially necessary can also be personally gruelling. A similar thing happened with the economy that you and I share. Just as I cannot and don't wish to turn back to the clock on equality and diversity, and yet must understand the sense of loss they can inspire, so, too, I refuse and could not if I wished turn back the clock on an ever more closely knit, interdependent world, and on inventions that won't stop being invented. And yet I must understand your experience of these things. You have for years been telling me that your experience of these things is not as good as my theories forecast. Yet before you could finish a complaining sentence about the difficulty of living with erratic hours, volatile pay, vanishing opportunities, about the pain of dropping your children off at 24-hour day care to make your 3am shift, I shot back at you — before you could finish your sentence — my dogma, about how what you are actually experiencing was flexibility and freedom. Language is one of the only things that we truly share, and I sometimes used this joint inheritance to obfuscate and deflect and justify myself; to re-brand what was good for me as something appearing good for us both, when I threw around terms like ""the sharing economy,"" and ""disruption"" and ""global resourcing."" I see now that what I was really doing, at times, was buying your pain on the cheap, sprucing it up and trying to sell it back to you as freedom. I have wanted to believe and wanted you to believe that the system that has been good to me, that has made my life ever more seamless, is also the best system for you. I have condescended to you with the idea that you are voting against your economic interests — voting against your interests, as if I know your interests. That is just my dogmatic economism talking. I have a weakness for treating people's economic interests as their only interest, ignoring things like belonging and pride and the desire to send a message to those who ignore you. So here we are, in a scary but not inexplicable moment of demagoguery, fracture, xenophobia, resentment and fear. And I worry for us both if we continue down this road, me not listening, you feeling unheard, you shouting to get me to listen. I worry when each of us is seduced by visions of the future that have no place for the other. If this goes on, if this goes on, there may be blood. There are already hints of this blood in newspapers every day. There may be roundups, raids, deportations, camps, secessions. And no, I do not think that I exaggerate. There may be even talk of war in places that were certain they were done with it. There is always the hope of redemption. But it will not be a cheap, shallow redemption that comes through blather about us all being in it together. This will take more. It will take accepting that we both made choices to be here. We create our ""others."" As parents, as neighbors, as citizens, we witness and sometimes ignore each other into being. You were not born vengeful. I have some role in whatever thirst you now feel for revenge, and that thirst now tempts me to plot ever more elaborate escapes from our common life, from the schools and neighborhoods and airports and amusement parks that we used to share. We face, then, a problem not of these large, impersonal forces. We face a problem of your and my relations. We chose ways of relating to each other that got us here. We can choose ways of relating that get us out. But there are things we might have to let go of, fellow citizen, starting with our own cherished versions of reality. Imagine if you let go of fantasies of a society purged of these or those people. Imagine if I let go of my habit of saving the world behind your back, of deliberating on the future of your work, your food, your schools, in places where you couldn't get past security. We can do this only if we first accept that we have neglected each other. If there is hope to summon in this ominous hour, it is this. We have, for too long, chased various shimmering dreams at the cost of attention to the foundational dream of each other, the dream of tending to each other, of unleashing each other's wonders, of moving through history together. We could dare to commit to the dream of each other as the thing that matters before every neon thing. Let us dare. Sincerely yours, a fellow citizen. (Applause)"	二零一六年六月二十九日。 我親愛的公民同伴們: 我今天寫信給你們，給那些在這個時代中迷失的你們。在我們日常生活的這個瞬間，世界正充滿著分裂、怨恨、和恐懼。 我簡單地對你們發表這封信，雖然我們都知道在你們之後還有很多「你」，而在我身後也有很多個「我」。 我寫信給你們是因為現在，這個我們共享的晃動的世界使我害怕。我猜它也讓你害怕。我們所害怕的一些事物，我猜，是相同的。但大多使我們害怕的來自我們彼此。你害怕我理想中的世界，而我也畏懼著你的視界。 你知道當你知道暴風雨即將來襲前會有的那種感覺嗎?你們現在也感受到那種感覺嗎，公民同伴們?那種不安和擔心，有些人或許知道，這種感覺是否讓他們想起1930年代? 也許你並非如此，因為我們對彼此的恐懼並不同步。在這個周圍中，我察覺到了你們對我的恐懼，對我所堅信的這個適合我們的世界的恐懼，已在世代間逐漸聚集。你的恐懼要引起我的恐懼是需要時間的，這很重要因為在一開始，我從沒想過我需要懼怕你。 我聽到你，但並未聽進去，在這些年間，當你說這個精彩的世界對你來說並不是那麼美妙，對你們很多人來說，穿越工業化的世界，這個我所享受著的開放的、流動的世界，人們、商品以及科技自由地流動互通，去到他們想去的世界各地。對你，並不是一種解放。 我走遍了你們的城鎮，當我看的時候，卻看不見。我發現到在德州的斯蒂芬維爾市中，城鎮廣場被一間又一間的律師事務所佔據，因為人們在監獄進進出出。我看到在南達科他州瓦格納的荒涼店鋪，以及海外退伍軍人會所矗立於社區對於夢想所忍受的嘲弄中。我發現在賓州蘭卡斯特城市中，太多二十代、三十代年輕人看起來離死亡只剩十年或二十年，有著不勻稱、疾病突發的皮膚和稀疏成條的頭髮，發褐、搖搖欲墜的牙齒，以及他們眼神中的茫然。 我注意到我在巴黎、在佛羅倫斯、在巴塞隆納遇見的年輕人，擁有著學歷卻無處可去，三十代卻仍是實習生，他們的生命被阻擋著無法大放異彩，因為經濟創造了財富—卻不創造工作。我看到了新聞報導那些在倫敦中變成鬼城的地方，世界超級富豪將可疑的錢變成一棟棟空著的公寓然後向城市的永久居民們索價，年輕情侶們出走，走出他們自己的家園。 我還聽到象徵你們生命的布料正在被撕裂。你以前能夠依靠工作，但現在卻無法。你以前能夠養育你的小孩，並確保他們能夠爬得比你所擁有的人生還要高，但現在卻無法。你以前在工作中找到尊嚴，但現在卻無法。以前，和你們一樣的人們擁有房子是再正常不過的事了，而現在卻並非如此。 我不能說我不知道這些事情，但我在想著別的事情，想著創造一個人們住在火星上的未來，當你們仍在地球上掙扎時。我在想著別的事情，想著創造永生，當你們很多人開始活得比你們的父母還短暫時。 我聽到這些所有事情，卻聽而不聞。我看了，卻視而不見。我讀了，卻不去明白。 只有當你們開始投票吶喊時，我才會集中精神。以及當你們的選票和吶喊，當這些的本質，開始威脅到我的時候。 我會真正聽見只有當你們朝破碎的大陸聯盟前行並選出通俗的政客的時候。 只有當你們的苦痛成為我的利益的時候。 我知道，感到疼痛，通常是處理傷痛的第一步。我現在納悶著，你們是否不再想要處理傷痛，而我是否與你們站在一起，當你們幾乎感受不到。 我問我自己，為什麼我不和你們站在一起呢? 其中一個原因是我陶醉於改變的權威中，為了創新，成為嶄新的信仰的敬仰者，以及全球化和開放邊界還有萬花筒般多樣性的崇敬者。 一旦改變成為我的總體信仰，我會變得盲目。我會看不清改變的後果。我會忽略根本、傳統、儀式、安定—和歸屬的重要性。 而當我越景仰改變和開放，成為一個基本主義者，我就越將你們導向另一個極端，去攀附，去凍結，去終止，去歸屬。 我現在看到了我之前沒看到的，那就是沒有正確的皮膚和器官並不是劣勢唯一的一種變形。擁有那些被賦予特權的特點中有更隱約、更不明顯的劣勢並感覺歷史離你而去;雖然過去對像你這種人非常不友善，但未來只會對其他人們更不友善;世界日漸陌生，一天一天越來不像你的世界。 我一刻也不會承認舊的特權需要被限縮。它們無法快速地限縮。你們必須學會在這個並不會因為以正確的皮膚和器官出現而得到好處的新世代中生存。如果你們的憤怒成為了仇恨請了解在我們共享的家園中並沒有仇恨的空間。但我承認，公民同胞們，我錯估了處理地位喪失這件事所承受的壓力。我遺忘了，對社會來說不可或缺的事也會讓個人極度疲勞。 同樣的事，發生在你我共享的經濟中。就如同我無法也不願希望讓時間倒轉，回到公平和多樣性，然而我必須明白他們啟示著我的迷失感，因此，同樣的，我拒絕，而就算我想也無法將時間倒轉回到一個更加緊密交織，互相依賴，創新永不停止的世界。但是我必須了解你們所經歷的這些事。 你們已經在數年間持續告訴我你們在這些事情中所經歷的並不及我的理論所預期的一樣好。 然而在你們結束抱怨的句子，埋怨著生活的困難、不定的工時、不定的收入、消失的機會、將小孩安置在24小時托育中心以便能在凌晨三點輪班的痛苦之前，我回嘴了—在你結束你的句子之前—我的信念，你們所真實經歷的是彈性及自由。 語言是我們所真正共享的唯一事物之一，而我有時運用這個共同財產來模糊視聽，和扭曲事實，以及為我自己辯護;將對我的事物重新塑造成看似對我們都有利的事，當我拋出像「共享經濟」、和「分裂」、以及「全球資源化」這些名詞時。 現在我知道我到底做了什麼，好幾次，廉價收購你們的痛苦，重新包裝的漂漂亮亮再試著將它們作為自由賣回給你們。 我一直以來都想相信，也想要你們相信這個對我有利的制度，讓我的生活更趨平緩的制度，也是對你們最有利的制度。 一直以來我都以屈尊的態度對待你們以你們正違背你們經濟利益在投票—違背你們自身利益在投票的想法，好像我了解你們的利益一樣。這只是我武斷的經濟主義的談話罷了。我有一個弱點，那就是把人們的經濟利益視為他們的唯一利益，忽略了歸屬感和尊嚴以及你們想傳達訊息給那些忽視你們的人的慾望。 所以我們現在在這裡，處在一個可怕但並非難以理解的時刻，在煽動、分裂、排外主義、憤慨、以及恐懼中。 而我擔心著我們雙方，當我們持續走在這條路上我聽而不聞，你感受到不被聆聽，你大吼著想讓我聽見。 我擔心著我們其中一方被沒有另外一方的未來景象所誘惑。 如果這發生了，如果這發生了，那就可能會見血。這血早已有跡像暗示了在每日的報紙中。可能會有圍捕、襲擊、驅除出境、拘留營、分離。還有不，我不覺得我誇大了。甚至可能會有關於發動戰爭的言論在那些已經受夠戰爭的地區。 人們一直對贖罪抱著希望，但這並不會是一個在呼籲大家團結的胡言中產生的廉價、膚淺的清償過程。這個清償需要更多。 他會需要我們彼此都做出在這裡一起的選擇。 我們創造我們的「其他人」。作為父母、作為鄰居、作為公民，我們看見了卻有時忽略他人的存在。 你並不是生來復仇的。我有一些角色作用在那些使你們現在想復仇的事情中，而你們那想復仇的慾望現在引誘著我去塑造更加精美的逃避出口從日常生活，從學校和鄰居社區以及機場和遊樂園這些我們過去共享的事物中逃跑。 我們面臨了一個問題並不產生於這些巨大、非個人的力量中我們面臨你和我之間的關係問題。我們選擇了彼此連結的方式讓我們走到了這裡。我們也可以選擇讓我們走出去的連結方式。 但我們必須先捨棄一些東西，公民朋友們，就從我們各自對美好未來的說法開始。 想像你捨棄了關於社會淘汰這些那些人的幻想。想像我捨棄了在你們背後拯救世界的習慣，商議著你們未來的工作、食物、教育，在你們無法得到如同過去的安全感的地方的這個習慣。 我們要能做到只有當我們先接受我們一直忽略彼此這件事。如果在這不詳的時刻，能有一個希望能夠聚集人們，那就是這個。我們長久以來，追尋著各種閃爍的夢想，以對於彼此最根本的夢想的注意力為代價，一個在乎照料著彼此，解開彼此被束縛的奇蹟，一起在歷史中前行的夢想。我們可以勇敢投入於彼此的夢想中，如同這些夢想比起其他如霓虹燈般的事物更為重要。 讓我們放膽去做。 誠摯地， 一位公民同伴。 (掌聲)
