Talk	en	zh-tw
anas_aremeyaw_anas_how_i_named_shamed_and_jailed	"I am sorry I cannot show you my face, because if I do, the bad guys will come for me. My journey started 14 years ago. I was a young reporter. I had just come out of college. Then I got a scoop. The scoop was quite a very simple story. Police officers were taking bribes from hawkers who were hawking on the streets. As a young reporter, I thought that I should do it in a different way, so that it has a maximum impact, since everybody knew that it was happening, and yet there was nothing that was keeping it out of the system. So I decided to go there and act as a seller. As part of selling, I was able to document the hard core evidence. The impact was great. It was fantastic. This was what many call immersion journalism, or undercover journalism. I am an undercover journalist. My journalism is hinged on three basic principles: naming, shaming and jailing. Journalism is about results. It's about affecting your community or your society in the most progressive way. I have worked on this for over 14 years, and I can tell you, the results are very good. One story that comes to mind in my undercover pieces is ""Spirit Child."" It was about children who were born with deformities, and their parents felt that once they were born with those deformities, they were not good enough to live in the society, so they were given some concoction to take and as a result they died. So I built a prosthetic baby, and I went into the village, pretended as though this baby had been born with a deformity, and here was the guys who do the killing. They got themselves ready. In their bids to kill, I got the police on standby, and they came that fateful morning to come and kill the child. I recall how they were seriously boiling the concoction. They put it on fire. It was boiling hot, getting ready to give to the kids. Whilst this was going on, the police I had alerted, they were on standby, and just as the concoction was ready, and they were about to give it to the kids, I phoned the police, and fortunately they came and busted them. As I speak now, they are before the courts. Don't forget the key principles: naming, shaming and jailing. The court process is taking place, and I'm very sure at the end of the day we will find them, and we will put them where they belong too. Another key story that comes to mind, which relates to this spirit child phenomenon, is ""The Spell of the Albinos."" I'm sure most of you may have heard, in Tanzania, children who are born with albinism are sometimes considered as being unfit to live in society. Their bodies are chopped up with machetes and are supposed to be used for some concoctions or some potions for people to get money — or so many, many stories people would tell about it. It was time to go undercover again. So I went undercover as a man who was interested in this particular business, of course. Again, a prosthetic arm was built. For the first time, I filmed on hidden camera the guys who do this, and they were ready to buy the arm and they were ready to use it to prepare those potions for people. I am glad today the Tanzanian government has taken action, but the key issue is that the Tanzanian government could only take action because the evidence was available. My journalism is about hard core evidence. If I say you have stolen, I show you the evidence that you have stolen. I show you how you stole it and when, or what you used what you had stolen to do. What is the essence of journalism if it doesn't benefit society? My kind of journalism is a product of my society. I know that sometimes people have their own criticisms about undercover journalism. (Video) Official: He brought out some money from his pockets and put it on the table, so that we should not be afraid. He wants to bring the cocoa and send it to Cote d'Ivoire. So with my hidden intention, I kept quiet. I didn't utter a word. But my colleagues didn't know. So after collecting the money, when he left, we were waiting for him to bring the goods. Immediately after he left, I told my colleagues that since I was the leader of the group, I told my colleagues that if they come, we will arrest them. Second official: I don't even know the place called [unclear]. I've never stepped there before. So I'm surprised. You see a hand counting money just in front of me. The next moment, you see the money in my hands, counting, whereas I have not come into contact with anybody. I have not done any business with anybody. Reporter: When Metro News contacted investigative reporter Anas Aremeyaw Anas for his reaction, he just smiled and gave this video extract he did not use in the documentary recently shown onscreen. The officer who earlier denied involvement pecks a calculator to compute the amount of money they will charge on the cocoa to be smuggled. Anas Aremeyaw Anas: This was another story on anticorruption. And here was him, denying. But you see, when you have the hard core evidence, you are able to affect society. Sometimes these are some of the headlines that come. (Music) [I will curse Anas to death] [Anas Lies] [Alarm Blows Over Anas' News for Cash Video] [Agenda Against Top CEPS Officials Exposed] [Anas Operates with Invisible Powers?] [Gov't Wobbles Over Anas Video] [Hunting the Hunter] [Anas 'Bribe' Men in Court] [15 Heads Roll Over Anas Tape] [Finance Minister Backs Anas] [11 Given Queries Over Anas' Story] [GJA Stands By Anas] [Prez. Mills Storms Tema Harbour Over Anas Video] [""Late Prof. John Evans Atta Mills: Former president of Ghana""] John Evans Atta Mills: What Anas says is not something which is unknown to many of us, but please, those of you who are agents, and who are leading the customs officers into temptation, I'm telling you, Ghana is not going to say any good things to you about this. AAA: That was my president. I thought that I couldn't come here without giving you something special. I have a piece, and I'm excited that I'm sharing it for the first time with you here. I have been undercover in the prisons. I have been there for a long time. And I can tell you, what I saw is not nice. But again, I can only affect society and affect government if I bring out the hard core evidence. Many times, the prison authorities have denied ever having issues of drug abuse, issues of sodomy, so many issues they would deny that it ever happens. How can you obtain the hard core evidence? So I was in the prison. [""Nsawan Prison""] Now, what you are seeing is a pile of dead bodies. Now, I happen to have followed one of my inmates, one of my friends, from his sick bed till death, and I can tell you it was not a nice thing at all. There were issues of bad food being served as I recall that some of the food I ate is just not good for a human being. Toilet facilities: very bad. I mean, you had to queue to get proper toilets to attend — and that's what I call proper, when four of us are on a manhole. It is something that if you narrate it to somebody, the person wouldn't believe it. The only way that you can let the person believe is when you show hard core evidence. Of course, drugs were abundant. It was easier to get cannabis, heroin and cocaine, faster even, in the prison than outside the prison. Evil in the society is an extreme disease. If you have extreme diseases, you need to get extreme remedies. My kind of journalism might not fit in other continents or other countries, but I can tell you, it works in my part of the continent of Africa, because usually, when people talk about corruption, they ask, ""Where is the evidence? Show me the evidence."" I say, ""This is the evidence."" And that has aided in me putting a lot of people behind bars. You see, we on the continent are able to tell the story better because we face the conditions and we see the conditions. That is why I was particularly excited when we launched our ""Africa Investigates"" series where we investigated a lot of African countries. As a result of the success of the ""Africa Investigates"" series, we are moving on to World Investigates. By the end of it, a lot more bad guys on our continent will be put behind bars. This will not stop. I'm going to carry on with this kind of journalism, because I know that when evil men destroy, good men must build and bind. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. Thank you. I have some questions for you. How did you end up in jail? This was just a few weeks ago, I believe, yeah? AAA: Sure. You know, undercover is all about setting the priorities right, so we got people to take me to court. So I went through the very legal process, because at the end of the day, the prison authorities want to check whether indeed you have been there or not, and that's how I got in there. CA: So someone sued you in court, and they took you there, and you were in remand custody for part of it, and you did that deliberately. AAA: Yes, yes. CA: Talk to me just about fear and how you manage that, because you're regularly putting your life at risk. How do you do that? AAA: You see, undercover is always a last resort. Before we go undercover, we follow the rules. And I'm only comfortable and I'm purged of fear whenever I am sure that all the steps have been taken. I don't do it alone. I have a backup team who help ensure that the safety and all the systems are put in place, but you've got to take very intelligent decisions whenever they are happening. If you don't, you will end up losing your life. So yes, when the backup systems are put in place, I'm okay, I go in. Risky, yes, but it's a hazard of a profession. I mean, everybody has their hazard. And once you say that is yours, you've got to take it, as and when it comes. CA: Well, you're an amazing human and you've done amazing work and you've taught us a story like no story I think any of us have heard before. And we're appreciative. We salute you. Thank you so much, Anas. AAA: Thank you. CA: Thank you. Stay safe. (Applause)"	"抱歉我不能讓你們看見我的臉，因為如果我這麼做，那些壞人會找上我。 14年前我開始了這段旅程。那時候我是個年輕的記者。剛剛大學畢業。 然後我拿到了一條獨家新聞。那條獨家新聞是個很簡單的故事。警察向在街上擺攤的小販收賄。身為一個年輕記者，我想我需要用一個不同的方式來報導，讓這件事有最大的影響力，因為每個人都知道有這麼一回事，但是卻沒有辦法阻止它發生。 所以我決定假扮成一個小販。在賣東西之餘，也能夠收集核心證據。效果非常大。非常好。 這就是許多人說的潛浸報導或是臥底報導。我是個臥底記者。我的報導有三個基本原則:報出名字、使人蒙羞、送人坐牢。報導就是要得到結果。用最進步的方式影響你的社區和社會。我做這件事已經超過14年了，而我能告訴你，結果非常好。 我想起我的一個報導，我的一個臥底報導，叫做「靈子」(Spirit Child)。它是有關先天畸形的孩童，這些孩童的父母認為只要他們是先天畸形，他們就沒有辦法在這個社會上生存，因此他們給了這些孩童某些混合物，而結果是孩子們死了。所以我製作了一個假的嬰兒，然後進到了那個村莊，假裝這個嬰兒有先天畸形，那些從事殺嬰的人就在那裡。他們準備好了。在他們嘗試殺嬰的時候，我叫警察準備。他們在那命運的隔天早晨來到並殺了嬰兒。我想起了他們是如此認真謹慎的烹煮混合物。他們把它放在爐火上。它正滾燙著，準備好要餵給孩子們了。正當那個時候，那些警察，正伺機而動，而混合物準備好而且正要餵孩子們吃的時候，我打了電話給警察，很幸運地警察趕到並逮捕了他們。當我在演講的這個時候，他們正在出庭。別忘了重要的原則：報出名字、使人蒙羞、送人坐牢。法庭程序正在進行，我非常肯定我們今天會找到他們，並將他們送到他們該去的地方。 我想到的另外一個關鍵故事和這個「靈子」現象有關係，它叫做「白子咒語」(The Spell of the Albinos)。我肯定你們大部分的人都聽說過，在坦尚尼亞出生的白子孩童有時候會被認為無法在社會上生存。他們的屍體會用彎刀切成塊，也應該有些被拿去製作混合物或者被一些人用作賺錢的藥物—或是變成很多很多人們會說的故事。是時候再當臥底了。因此我假裝是一個對這門生意有興趣的男人，這是當然的。又一次，我打造了一條義肢手臂。那是第一次我用藏好的攝影機拍下做這些事情的人，他們準備好要購買這條手臂並準備用它來製作藥劑給那些人了。 我很高興今天坦尚尼亞的政府採取行動了，但是關鍵問題在於坦尚尼亞政府只能在有證據的情況下採取行動。我的報導就是關於核心證據的。如果我說你偷了東西，我就會讓你看你偷了東西的證據。我會讓你看到你是怎麼偷、在什麼時候偷、或是你用了什麼，來證明你偷竊。如果一則報導對社會沒有好處，那麼它的本質是什麼呢？ 我的報導產自我的社會。我知道人們有時候對臥底報導有他們自己的批評。 (影片)官員：他從他口袋裡拿出了一些錢放在桌上，所以我們不需要擔心。他想要把可可送到象牙海岸(Côte d'Ivoire, Ivory Coast)。即使我有潛在的意圖，我仍保持了沉默。我一個字也沒說。但是我的同事並不知道。所以收了錢之後、他離開了之後，我們等著他把東西帶來。他離開之後我立刻告訴了我的同事，因為我是這個團隊的頭頭，我告訴我的同事說如果他們來的話，我們就逮捕他們。 第二名官員：我甚至不知道那個叫做[不詳]的地方。我從來沒有去過哪裡。所以我很訝異。你看到有隻手就在我面前數錢。下一秒你就看到錢在我手裡，數著，然而我並沒有跟任何人接觸。我從沒和任何人進行交易。記者：當Metro News和調查記者 Anas Aremeyaw Anas 聯繫想知道他的反應時，他只是微笑並給了這段他沒有用在最近在電視上播出的紀錄片裡的精華影片。之前否認涉案的官員在按計算機計算他們要對可可走私收取的金錢。 Anas Aremeyaw Anas：這是另外一個跟反貪汙有關的故事。他否認了。但是如你所見，當你擁有核心證據時，你就可以影響社會。有時候會出現這些頭版標題。(音樂) [我咒 Anas 死] [Anas 說謊] [警報平息了 Anas 關於官員賄賂的新聞影片。 [反對 CEPS (Customs, Excise and Preventive Service ) 高層官員的議程曝光了] [Anas 有看不見的力量？] [Anas 的影片讓政府不安] [獵捕獵人] [Anas 賄賂法庭上的人] [Anas 的影帶害死了 15 個人] [經濟部長力挺 Anas] [對 Anas 的故事的 11 個疑問] [GJA (Ghana Journalists Association) 和 Anas 在同一陣線] [Prez. Mills 因為 Anas 的影片撼動了 Tema 港][""John Evans Atta Mills: 迦納前總統""] John Evans Atta Mills：Anas 所說的話我們很多人都知道，但是拜託，那些特工和誘惑海關官員的人，我要告訴你們，迦納是不會因為這些事情對你們說好話的。 AAA：那是我的總統。 我想既然來到了這裡，就一定要給你們一些特別的東西。我有個故事，我對於第一次在這裡和你們分享感到很興奮。我過去曾在監獄裡臥底過。我在那裡待過很長一段時間。我能告訴你們，我所見到的事會讓人不舒服。但是再次重申，唯有透過將核心證據帶出來，我才能夠影響社會、政府。很多次，獄方矢口否認曾經發生過毒品濫用、雞姦等的事情，他們否認了曾經發生過的許多事情。你要如何得到核心證據呢？ 因此我進到了監獄裡。[""Nsawan監獄""]好，現在你們所看到的是一堆屍體。好，我見證了我的一位獄友也是我的一個朋友，從臥病在床到死亡的過程，我告訴你們，那絕對是慘不忍睹。那裡提供的食物很差在我記憶中我在那裡所吃的食物對人並不好。廁所設施：非常差。我是說，你得排隊才能用到像樣的廁所——而我說的像樣是指四個人同時使用一個人孔。這是一種你就算說給某個人聽他也不會相信的情況。要讓那個人相信的辦法就是讓他看見核心證據。當然，毒品很多。在監獄裡要拿到大麻、海洛因和古柯鹼比在外面容易，甚至更快。 邪惡在社會上是種重病。如果你得到了重病，你就需要下重藥。我這種報導也許不適用在其他洲或是其他國家，或是其他國家，但我能告訴你，在我所在這個部分的非洲有效，因為人們談到貪污的時候通常會問：「證據呢？我要看證據。」我說：「這就是證據。」那幫我將很多人關進大牢。 嗯，在這裡我們能夠把事情看得更清楚是因為我們能看到這些情況並面對這些情況。這就是為什麼我在「非洲大調查」這個影集的播出 (Africa Investigates)的時候感到特別興奮的原因。我們在這個影集裡面調查了很多的非洲國家。由於「非洲大調查」影集的成功，我們正在著手進行「世界大調查」。在節目的尾聲，非洲的很多壞人被關進了大牢裡。 這不會停止。我會繼續從事這類報導，因為我知道要摧毀壞人，好人就必須緊密團結合作。 非常感謝各位。 (掌聲) Chris Anderson：謝謝你。謝謝。我有一些問題要問你。你是怎麼進到監獄裡的？這只是幾個禮拜前的事，對吧？ AAA：嗯，臥底的重點就是要搞對事情的優先順序，所以我們找人把我弄上法庭。我完全是經由合法程序，因為那天最後獄方想要查看我究竟有沒有到那裡去。而這就是我進去的方法。 CA：所以有人控告你並把你帶到哪裡去，然後你因為涉案被還押，而你是故意這麼做的？ AAA：是的，沒錯。 CA：和我說說畏懼感吧，CA：還有你是怎麼處理它的，因為你經常讓你自己陷於危險。你是如何做到的？ AAA：嗯，臥底一直都是一件破釜沉舟的事。我們去臥底之前，都是照著規矩來的。在確認了所有的步驟都做了之後我就順其自然而且無所畏懼。我有一個後援團隊幫我確保安全還有整個系統正確運作，但是在有狀況發生的時候你必須做出非常明智的決定。如果做不到，就會送命。所以呢，當後援系統都準備就緒，我就準備好了。我便勇往直前。危險，當然存在，但是這是職業風險。我是說，任何人都有他們的風險。而當你知道了你的風險所在，當它來臨時你就必須去承擔。 CA：嗯，你是個令人驚奇的人，你做的事也同樣非凡無比，你告訴我們的故事，我們任何一位都不曾聽過。我們很感激。我們向您致敬。非常感謝您，Anas。 AAA：謝謝。 CA：謝謝你。注意安全。(掌聲)"
