Talk	en	zh-tw
andrew_pelling_this_scientist_makes_ears_out_of_apples	"I've got a confession. I love looking through people's garbage. Now, it's not some creepy thing. I'm usually just looking for old electronics, stuff I can take to my workshop and hack. I do have a fetish for CD-ROM drives. Each one's got three different motors, so now you can build things that move. There's switches so you can turn things on and off. There's even a freaking laser, so you can make a cool robot into an awesome robot. Now, I've built a lot of stuff out of garbage, and some of these things have even been kind of useful. But here's the thing, for me, garbage is just a chance to play, to be creative and build things to amuse myself. This is what I love doing, so I just made it part of my day job. I lead a university-based biological research lab, where we value curiosity and exploration above all else. We aren't focused on any particular problem, and we're not trying to solve any particular disease. This is just a place where people can come and ask fascinating questions and find answers. And I realized a long time ago that if I challenge people to build the equipment they need out of the garbage I find, it's a great way to foster creativity. And what happened was that artists and scientists from around the world started coming to my lab. And it's not just because we value unconventional ideas, it's because we test and validate them with scientific rigor. So one day I was hacking something, I was taking it apart, and I had this sudden idea: Could I treat biology like hardware? Could I dismantle a biological system, mix and match the parts and then put it back together in some new and creative way? My lab started working on this, and I want to show you the result. Can any of you guys tell me what fruit this is? Audience: Apple! Andrew Pelling: That's right — it's an apple. Now, I actually want you to notice as well that this is a lot redder than most apples. And that's because we grew human cells into it. We took a totally innocent Macintosh apple, removed all the apple cells and DNA and then implanted human cells. And what we're left with after removing all the apple cells is this cellulose scaffold. This is the stuff that gives plants their shape and texture. And these little holes that you can see, this is where all the apple cells used to be. So then we come along, we implant some mammalian cells that you can see in blue. What happens is, these guys start multiplying and they fill up this entire scaffold. As weird as this is, it's actually really reminiscent of how our own tissues are organized. And we found in our pre-clinical work that you can implant these scaffolds into the body, and the body will send in cells and a blood supply and actually keep these things alive. This is the point when people started asking me, ""Andrew, can you make body parts out of apples?"" And I'm like, ""You've come to the right place."" (Laughter) I actually brought this up with my wife. She's a musical instrument maker, and she does a lot of wood carving for a living. So I asked her, ""Could you, like, literally carve some ears out of an apple for us?"" And she did. So I took her ears to the lab. We then started preparing them. Yeah, I know. (Laughter) It's a good lab, man. (Laughter) And then we grew cells on them. And this is the result. Listen, my lab is not in the ear-manufacturing business. People have actually been working on this for decades. Here's the issue: commercial scaffolds can be really expensive and problematic, because they're sourced from proprietary products, animals or cadavers. We used an apple and it cost pennies. What's also really cool here is it's not that hard to make these things. The equipment you need can be built from garbage, and the key processing step only requires soap and water. So what we did was put all the instructions online as open source. And then we founded a mission-driven company, and we're developing kits to make it easier for anyone with a sink and a soldering iron to make these things at home. What I'm really curious about is if one day, it will be possible to repair, rebuild and augment our own bodies with stuff we make in the kitchen. Speaking of kitchens, here's some asparagus. They're tasty, and they make your pee smell funny. (Laughter) Now, I was in my kitchen, and I was noticing that when you look down the stalks of these asparagus, what you can see are all these tiny little vessels. And when we image them in the lab, you can see how the cellulose forms these structures. This image reminds me of two things: our blood vessels and the structure and organization of our nerves and spinal cord. So here's the question: Can we grow axons and neurons down these channels? Because if we can, then maybe we can use asparagus to form new connections between the ends of damaged and severed nerves. Or maybe even a spinal cord. Don't get me wrong — this is exceptionally challenging and really hard work to do, and we are not the only ones working on this. But we are the only ones using asparagus. (Laughter) Right now, we've got really promising pilot data. And we're working with tissue engineers and neurosurgeons to find out what's actually possible. So listen, all of the work I've shown you, the stuff that I've built that's all around me on this stage and the other projects my lab is involved in are all a direct result of me playing with your garbage. Play — play is a key part of my scientific practice. It's how I train my mind to be unconventional and to be creative and to decide to make human apple ears. So, the next time any of you are looking at some old, broken-down, malfunctioning, piece-of-crap technology, I want you to think of me. Because I want it. (Laughter) Seriously, please find any way to get in touch with me, and let's see what we can build. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要承認一件事。我很喜歡翻人家的垃圾堆。這不是什麼怪癖好。我通常只是在找，能帶回我工作室重組的舊電子產品之類的東西。我特別愛光碟機的驅動器。每個機體裡都有三種不同的馬達，藉此你可以製造會移動的東西、還有按鈕可以開啟和關閉電源， 而且還有一個超強雷射頭，可以使一個很酷的機器人變成超棒的機器人。 目前，我已經從垃圾堆裡改造出很多東西，其中有些還滿有用的。不過呢，對我來說，垃圾堆可以讓我有機會製造出創意和娛樂自己的的東西。這是我的愛好，所以我就將它成為我白天工作的一部分。我帶領一個大學的生物研究實驗室，我們很重視對事物的好奇心和探索。但我們並不專注在某個特定問題上，也沒在嘗試解決某種疾病。這裡只是一個讓人可以 提出好玩的問題和找尋答案的地方。我很久以前就意識到，如果我讓這些人利用我找到的這些垃圾，來製造出他們所需要的設備，這種挑戰是培養創造力的好方法。接下來發生的，是世界各地的藝術家和科學家，開始來造訪我的實驗室。但這不僅是因為我們著重在非常規的點子上，因為我們在測試和驗證這些東西時，也是用嚴謹的科學來看待。 有一天，我在拆卸及改造東西的時候，突然間有了個想法，我是否可以把生物學弄得像硬體ㄧ樣？我可不可以拆解一個生物系統、混搭不同零件，然後以創新的方式重新組合起來？我的實驗室開始了這方面的研究，我要給各位看看實驗結果。 各位可以告訴我這是什麼水果嗎？ 觀眾：蘋果， 安德魯·佩爾霖：什麼？正確，這是一個蘋果。我其實是希望各位有注意到，這比一般蘋果更紅許多。那是因為我們注入了人類細胞。 我們拿了一個很單純的麥金塔蘋果，去掉所有蘋果的細胞和 DNA 後，然後植入人類細胞。在我們去除掉所有蘋果細胞後，剩下的就是這個纖維支架。這纖維支架給了植物形狀和質感。你可以看到這些小洞，它們是蘋果細胞原來存在的地方。接下來，我們植入了哺乳動物的細胞，也就是螢幕上藍色的部份。後來這些傢伙就開始繁殖，直到它們填滿了整個支架。 雖然滿奇怪的，但這令我們聯想起人體的細胞組織架構。我們在臨床研究中發現，這些支架在植入入體後，人體會自行植入細胞並供給血液，使這些東西活下來。因為這樣，人們開始問我，「安德魯，你能用蘋果培養出身體器官嗎？」我回答說， 「你來對地方了。」 （笑聲） 我對我妻子提起這件事。她是一位樂器製造者，她也以木雕工作為生。於是我問她，「你能不能幫我們用蘋果 —雕刻出一些耳朵？」她做到了。我把她所做的耳朵帶到實驗室，並做了些前續處理。是的，我知道。 （笑聲） 這是一個很專業的實驗室。 （笑聲） 然後在上面培育細胞。而這就是結果。 我要聲明，這個實驗室並不是以製造耳朵為業。其他人在這方面已經有數十年的經驗了。大家面臨的困難是：商業支架很昂貴，也有許多問題，因爲它們源自於專利產品、由動物或死屍所製成的。而我們用的是蘋果，只需要幾毛錢。 另外很酷的是，製作起來並不困難。你所需的設備，從廢物堆裡就能找到，而且在關鍵的處理步驟中，僅需要肥皂和水。而且我們已經將所有的製作步驟公開在網路上。我們也成立了一個任務導向的公司，我們正在研發簡單的製作套件， 好讓任何有水槽和烙鐵的人， 都能在家裡製造。我真的很好奇，如果會有一天，人們能在廚房裡修復、重建、或改造身體那會是怎樣的世界？ 講到廚房，這裡有一些蘆筍。它們很好吃，而且會讓你的尿液聞起來怪怪的。 （笑聲） 我在廚房的時候，我注意到，在這些蘆筍的莖內，你可以看到這些微小的血管。從實驗室的影像上，就能看見這些纖維結構體。這影像讓我想起兩樣東西：我們的血管和神經脊髓的組織架構。 所以問題來了，我們能否在這管道裡培養軸突和神經元？如果可以，就能藉由蘆筍，形成一種新連接，來修補損壞的神經、或甚至脊髓。請別誤會，這絕對是很大的挑戰，非常困難的工作。我們雖然不是唯一在這方面努力的研究室，但卻是唯一使用蘆筍的。 （笑聲） 目前臨床測試的數據結果很樂觀。我們協同組織學工程師，和神經外科醫生一起研究，可行的辦法。 所以說，你們在台上所看到的一切，這些我所建構的東西，和其它我的實驗室所參與的研究工作，都是從各位不要的廢物堆裡開始玩起的。玩 ，是我科學實踐的關鍵。它是我訓練腦力「標新立異」和「創新」的方式，並決定用蘋果製作人類耳朵。 所以，下次你們看到老舊的、破損的、故障的、爛透的技術物品，我要你想起我。因為我想要。 （笑聲） 我是說真的，請聯繫我，讓我們看看，能將它改造成什麼。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
