Talk	en	zh-tw
andrew_blum_what_is_the_internet_really	"I've always written primarily about architecture, about buildings, and writing about architecture is based on certain assumptions. An architect designs a building, and it becomes a place, or many architects design many buildings, and it becomes a city, and regardless of this complicated mix of forces of politics and culture and economics that shapes these places, at the end of the day, you can go and you can visit them. You can walk around them. You can smell them. You can get a feel for them. You can experience their sense of place. But what was striking to me over the last several years was that less and less was I going out into the world, and more and more, I was sitting in front of my computer screen. And especially since about 2007, when I got an iPhone, I was not only sitting in front of my screen all day, but I was also getting up at the end of the day and looking at this little screen that I carried in my pocket. And what was surprising to me was how quickly my relationship to the physical world had changed. In this very short period of time, you know, whether you call it the last 15 years or so of being online, or the last, you know, four or five years of being online all the time, our relationship to our surroundings had changed in that our attention is constantly divided. You know, we're both looking inside the screens and we're looking out in the world around us. And what was even more striking to me, and what I really got hung up on, was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own. If you went and looked for images of the Internet, this was all that you found, this famous image by Opte of the Internet as the kind of Milky Way, this infinite expanse where we don't seem to be anywhere on it. We can never seem to grasp it in its totality. It's always reminded me of the Apollo image of the Earth, the blue marble picture, and it's similarly meant to suggest, I think, that we can't really understand it as a whole. We're always sort of small in the face of its expanse. So if there was this world and this screen, and if there was the physical world around me, I couldn't ever get them together in the same place. And then this happened. My Internet broke one day, as it occasionally does, and the cable guy came to fix it, and he started with the dusty clump of cables behind the couch, and he followed it to the front of my building and into the basement and out to the back yard, and there was this big jumble of cables against the wall. And then he saw a squirrel running along the wire, and he said, ""There's your problem. A squirrel is chewing on your Internet."" (Laughter) And this seemed astounding. The Internet is a transcendent idea. It's a set of protocols that has changed everything from shopping to dating to revolutions. It was unequivocally not something a squirrel could chew on. (Laughter) But that in fact seemed to be the case. A squirrel had in fact chewed on my Internet. (Laughter) And then I got this image in my head of what would happen if you yanked the wire from the wall and if you started to follow it. Where would it go? Was the Internet actually a place that you could visit? Could I go there? Who would I meet? You know, was there something actually out there? And the answer, by all accounts, was no. This was the Internet, this black box with a red light on it, as represented in the sitcom ""The IT Crowd."" Normally it lives on the top of Big Ben, because that's where you get the best reception, but they had negotiated that their colleague could borrow it for the afternoon to use in an office presentation. The elders of the Internet were willing to part with it for a short while, and she looks at it and she says, ""This is the Internet? The whole Internet? Is it heavy?"" They say, ""Of course not, the Internet doesn't weigh anything."" And I was embarrassed. I was looking for this thing that only fools seem to look for. The Internet was that amorphous blob, or it was a silly black box with a blinking red light on it. It wasn't a real world out there. But, in fact, it is. There is a real world of the Internet out there, and that's what I spent about two years visiting, these places of the Internet. I was in large data centers that use as much power as the cities in which they sit, and I visited places like this, 60 Hudson Street in New York, which is one of the buildings in the world, one of a very short list of buildings, about a dozen buildings, where more networks of the Internet connect to each other than anywhere else. And that connection is an unequivocally physical process. It's about the router of one network, a Facebook or a Google or a B.T. or a Comcast or a Time Warner, whatever it is, connecting with usually a yellow fiber optic cable up into the ceiling and down into the router of another network, and that's unequivocally physical, and it's surprisingly intimate. A building like 60 Hudson, and a dozen or so others, has 10 times more networks connecting within it than the next tier of buildings. There's a very short list of these places. And 60 Hudson in particular is interesting because it's home to about a half a dozen very important networks, which are the networks which serve the undersea cables that travel underneath the ocean that connect Europe and America and connect all of us. And it's those cables in particular that I want to focus on. If the Internet is a global phenomenon, if we live in a global village, it's because there are cables underneath the ocean, cables like this. And in this dimension, they are incredibly small. You can you hold them in your hand. They're like a garden hose. But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine. They stretch across the ocean. They're three or five or eight thousand miles in length, and if the material science and the computational technology is incredibly complicated, the basic physical process is shockingly simple. Light goes in on one end of the ocean and comes out on the other, and it usually comes from a building called a landing station that's often tucked away inconspicuously in a little seaside neighborhood, and there are amplifiers that sit on the ocean floor that look kind of like bluefin tuna, and every 50 miles they amplify the signal, and since the rate of transmission is incredibly fast, the basic unit is a 10-gigabit-per-second wavelength of light, maybe a thousand times your own connection, or capable of carrying 10,000 video streams, but not only that, but you'll put not just one wavelength of light through one of the fibers, but you'll put maybe 50 or 60 or 70 different wavelengths or colors of light through a single fiber, and then you'll have maybe eight fibers in a cable, four going in each direction. And they're tiny. They're the thickness of a hair. And then they connect to the continent somewhere. They connect in a manhole like this. Literally, this is where the 5,000-mile cable plugs in. This is in Halifax, a cable that stretches from Halifax to Ireland. And the landscape is changing. Three years ago, when I started thinking about this, there was one cable down the Western coast of Africa, represented in this map by Steve Song as that thin black line. Now there are six cables and more coming, three down each coast. Because once a country gets plugged in by one cable, they realize that it's not enough. If they're going to build an industry around it, they need to know that their connection isn't tenuous but permanent, because if a cable breaks, you have to send a ship out into the water, throw a grappling hook over the side, pick it up, find the other end, and then fuse the two ends back together and then dump it over. It's an intensely, intensely physical process. So this is my friend Simon Cooper, who until very recently worked for Tata Communications, the communications wing of Tata, the big Indian industrial conglomerate. And I've never met him. We've only communicated via this telepresence system, which always makes me think of him as the man inside the Internet. (Laughter) And he is English. The undersea cable industry is dominated by Englishmen, and they all seem to be 42. (Laughter) Because they all started at the same time with the boom about 20 years ago. And Tata had gotten its start as a communications business when they bought two cables, one across the Atlantic and one across the Pacific, and proceeded to add pieces onto them, until they had built a belt around the world, which means they will send your bits to the East or the West. They have — this is literally a beam of light around the world, and if a cable breaks in the Pacific, it'll send it around the other direction. And then having done that, they started to look for places to wire next. They looked for the unwired places, and that's meant North and South, primarily these cables to Africa. But what amazes me is Simon's incredible geographic imagination. He thinks about the world with this incredible expansiveness. And I was particularly interested because I wanted to see one of these cables being built. See, you know, all the time online we experience these fleeting moments of connection, these sort of brief adjacencies, a tweet or a Facebook post or an email, and it seemed like there was a physical corollary to that. It seemed like there was a moment when the continent was being plugged in, and I wanted to see that. And Simon was working on a new cable, WACS, the West Africa Cable System, that stretched from Lisbon down the west coast of Africa, to Cote d'Ivoire, to Ghana, to Nigeria, to Cameroon. And he said there was coming soon, depending on the weather, but he'd let me know when, and so with about four days notice, he said to go to this beach south of Lisbon, and a little after 9, this guy will walk out of the water. (Laughter) And he'll be carrying a green nylon line, a lightweight line, called a messenger line, and that was the first link between sea and land, this link that would then be leveraged into this 9,000-mile path of light. Then a bulldozer began to pull the cable in from this specialized cable landing ship, and it was floated on these buoys until it was in the right place. Then you can see the English engineers looking on. And then, once it was in the right place, he got back in the water holding a big knife, and he cut each buoy off, and the buoy popped up into the air, and the cable dropped to the sea floor, and he did that all the way out to the ship, and when he got there, they gave him a glass of juice and a cookie, and then he jumped back in, and he swam back to shore, and then he lit a cigarette. (Laughter) And then once that cable was on shore, they began to prepare to connect it to the other side, for the cable that had been brought down from the landing station. And first they got it with a hacksaw, and then they start sort of shaving away at this plastic interior with a — sort of working like chefs, and then finally they're working like jewelers to get these hair-thin fibers to line up with the cable that had come down, and with this hole-punch machine they fuse it together. And when you see these guys going at this cable with a hacksaw, you stop thinking about the Internet as a cloud. It starts to seem like an incredibly physical thing. And what surprised me as well was that as much as this is based on the most sophisticated technology, as much as this is an incredibly new thing, the physical process itself has been around for a long time, and the culture is the same. You see the local laborers. You see the English engineer giving directions in the background. And more importantly, the places are the same. These cables still connect these classic port cities, places like Lisbon, Mombasa, Mumbai, Singapore, New York. And then the process on shore takes around three or four days, and then, when it's done, they put the manhole cover back on top, and they push the sand over that, and we all forget about it. And it seems to me that we talk a lot about the cloud, but every time we put something on the cloud, we give up some responsibility for it. We are less connected to it. We let other people worry about it. And that doesn't seem right. There's a great Neal Stephenson line where he says that wired people should know something about wires. And we should know, I think, we should know where our Internet comes from, and we should know what it is that physically, physically connects us all. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause) Thanks. (Applause)"	"我主要的著作都有關建築學、或建物而寫這些建築時都要從一個特定的假設開始有一個建築師設計了一座建築，然後變成一個地點或是許多建築師設計許多建築，然後成為一個城市而無論這些造就了這些地方的文化或社會力量、經濟有多麼的錯綜複雜在最終，變成一個你能去的地方你能拜訪各處，你能繞著他們走你能聞到這些建築、你能感覺到這些建築你能感覺這個地方的氛圍 但這幾年嚇到我自己的是我越來越少走出外面的世界取而代之的是越來越常坐在電腦螢幕前面特別是2007年開始，我買iPhone以後我不只是整天坐在電腦螢幕前我還開始在每天結束前爬起來看著我口袋裡帶著的那塊小螢幕令我驚訝的是我與外在世界的關係改變得如此迅速在如此短暫的時間內不管你認為這個線上時代是在十五年前或是四、五年前開始我們與外在的關係已經改變我們的注意力也時常地被分散我們都在往螢幕裡看去看我們身處的世界 而更令我震驚的是，也讓我真正開始注意的是，這個螢幕裡頭的世界似乎自己沒有一點實際的存在如果你想看一張網路的圖你會找到這張由Opte計畫所生成的著名圖片把網路看作銀河一般，這樣無限好像我們沒辦法身在其中任一處我們好像永遠無法完全掌握它這張圖總讓我聯想到阿波羅號上看到的地球那張藍寶石的圖片，而它的相似度也暗示了我認為，我們永遠無法完全整體地去了解它我們永遠會是它擴張中的一小部分 所以如果有這麼一個世界和這塊螢幕好像現實世界這樣圍繞著我的話我永遠無法把他們放在一起 然後這件事發生了有一天，我網路如同偶而會發生地，壞了工程師前來維修然後他從沙發後沾滿灰塵的一團線開始然後他跟著那條線到了我大樓前面，下了地下室，然後再出了後院那兒有個很大的集線區安在牆上然後他看見一隻松鼠在電纜上跑著然後他說，＂這就是你的問題有一隻松鼠在咀嚼你的網路＂（笑聲）這看來挺驚人的網路是個形而上的概念。網路是種囊括購物到約會到革命等等的各種東西在上面的交換協議這本來不是個松鼠能咬的東西（笑聲）但事實上看來如此一隻松鼠真的咬了我的網路（笑聲）然後我腦袋就開始幻想這樣一個圖像如果你把網路線扯出牆壁然後開始跟著它走，它會走到哪?網路是否真的為一個你能拜訪的地方我能到那嗎?，我會遇到誰你懂?就是網路是否是否真的在＂外面＂？ 而這個答案，按照認知來說，應該是沒有這該是網路，有著紅燈亮著的黑箱子如同喜劇""The IT Crowd所呈現的樣子通常會設在大笨鐘的頂層因為是收訊最好的地方但他們在協商後把它借到了大學校園裡所以當天下午的簡報能夠使用網路的管理者們願意短暫的把它借出然後她看著這個盒子然後說這就是網路?整個網路?它重嗎?他們說，當然不重，網路一點重量都沒有 然後我尷尬了。我像是笨蛋一樣在找一個不存在的東西網路要麼不是無形的一小滴要麼就是一個有著會閃紅燈的小黑盒網路之外好像沒甚麼實際形體 但，事實上，它有的。網路外有個實際的形體而我花了大概兩年派訪這些網路的「地點」我拜訪了大型資訊中心那個中心的電力消耗和它所坐落城市的電力消耗相同我還拜訪了這種地方，紐約哈德遜街60號它是世界上的其中一棟一種為數不多的建築，大約十來棟左右網路在那編織成網、互相連通量比其他地方都大裏頭的連接是靠著實際的物理運作的這大約是一個網路架構的路由器，如臉書或是Google、BT、Comcast或是Time Warner，不管是甚麼都通常是用黃色的光纖電纜牽入天花板然後走進路由器去連接其他網路那是實際的物質，也看來意外地親切如哈德遜街60號這樣的建築，或是其他十幾個都有著比身邊一排建築物相加起來的十倍連接量這些地方並不多而哈德遜街六十號特別有趣的地方在於它是好幾個非常重要網路的家那些網路通聯著在海裡蜿蜒的海底電纜牽起歐美，和我們所有人這些特別的電纜就是我想要專注的地方 如果網際網路是種全球現象如果我們住在一個地球村，就是因為海底的網路像這樣的電纜在這樣的特點下，它們微不足道你能將他們握在手中，他們像是花園水管一樣但在另一個面向來看，他們不可思議的廣布你能想像有多廣布就有多廣布他們爬佈滿海底。大概是三、五或八千英里長要說這項材料科學和電機記算數學是極為複雜的，但它的物理過程又驚人地簡單，光從海洋的一端傳入然後從另外一端傳出。它通常在下水前進入一個叫做陸地站的建築通常很不起眼地座落在海邊的一小區然後在海床上會有增幅器長的有點像藍鰭鮪魚每五十英里他們就會強化訊號，當他們以如此快的速度傳遞，最小單位是每道光每秒內傳遞10G速度或許是你網路的一千倍或是能夠下載10000部影片的流量旦不只如此，你能在光纖中放入不只一道光一條光纖能大概放入50、60、70條不同長短或是顏色的光波然後一條電纜之中大概會有八條光纖，來去各四條他們非常細，如髮絲一樣細小 然後他們連接到大陸的某地他們會連接到像這樣的沙井，實質上的5000英里路的電纜最後會插在這裡這在哈利法克斯（Halifax），中間有條連接到愛爾蘭（Ireland）的電纜整體地貌也在都改變。三年前當我開始琢磨這些東西時，在西非海底下有一條電纜，在Steve Song畫的這張地圖中看來就像一條小黑線現在那裏有六條電纜，三條會分別鋪設在東西岸，接下來還有因為只要插入了一條電纜那個國家就會意識到根本不夠如果們他們想在附近發展產業他們得確保連線是穩定而非不穩定的因為如果電纜壞了，你得送艘船下水然後伸出鉤子，把電纜溝起來，在找到另一端然後把兩邊焊接後，再丟回水里這是極度、極度精密的物理處理 所以我和我的朋友Simon Cooper這個最近在Tata電信工作的朋友，Tata是一個印度大工業企業集團的通訊部門我從未真正見過他我們只能透過電話聯絡，而這總是讓我去想像他是一個住在網路裡的人（笑聲）而他是英格蘭人。海底電纜工業是被英國人主導，而且好像都是四十二歲（笑聲）因為他們都是在20年前這項工業開始發展時加入而Tata就從買下兩條電纜開始他們的通訊營運一條通過大西洋一條通過太平洋，然後一段一段加建直到他們建立了圍繞整個世界的紐帶這表示他們能夠將你的資訊位元送過整個地球他們已經，這是實際光線在世界傳導的樣子如果電纜在太平洋斷掉，資訊能繞往其他方向而他們在完成了這個建設後就開始找下一個鋪設纜線的地方他們想找沒鋪設過的地點，代表北方和南方，大抵上是通往非洲但是我覺得很驚奇的是，Simon對地理不可思議的想像在他的思考世界裡充滿著無限的廣闊 而我特別感興趣因為我想要去看電纜建設的過程，你知道，一直以來我們在線上所體驗到那些瞬間連接的快感這些短暫的銜接，一封推特文或者是臉書更新或是電子郵件，這看來是有個實際的推移過程看起來像是在某個時機陸地之間會被電纜插入，我就想看那個而Simon正忙於新的電纜WACS，西非光纖電纜系統從里斯本（Lisbon）延伸到西非海岸到柯特狄瓦（Cote d'Ivoire）、到迦納（Ghana）、奈及利亞（Nigeria）、卡麥隆（Cameroon）然後他說工程日期將近，看天氣如何，但時候到了他會讓我知道所以大概工程四天前，他通知了我去里斯本南方的海岸，而大約九點過後不久這傢伙會從水中走出來（笑聲）然後他會帶著一條綠色的尼龍線、很輕的線叫做傳輸線，然後那就是陸地和海洋的第一次接觸，這個連接之後將會光經過九千英里路後的連接橋梁然後一台推土機開始將電纜從特製的電纜登陸船上拉下，並會在定好位之前靠著這些浮標飄在海面接著就能看見這些英國工程師在旁看著然後，一旦它就定位，這傢伙拿著一把大刀回到海中，然後把每個浮標砍下浮標飄出水面，然後電纜沉入海底，那個男人一路砍到船那端當他到船那端時他們給他一杯果汁和一塊餅乾之後他跳回海中，游回岸邊然後他開始抽起菸來了（笑聲） 一旦電纜到了海岸上他們開始準備把它連接到另外一端因為電纜那時已經開始有點被扯離陸地站他們先拿了一把鋼鋸，他們開始用像是廚師的手法開始刮除塑膠內皮接著他們終於開始用像珠寶商的手法把這些髮絲般細的光纖排成一束跟牽來電纜一起然後他們用這些打洞機把它們焊接起來當你看到這些工人用鋼鋸來處理這些電纜時你不會再去把網路想做雲朵它開始看來像個非常真實存在的東西同樣讓我驚訝的除了這樣一項高度精密的技術，和這個不可思議的新工藝外是它的操作手法已經存在了很久，連同其中蘊含的文化也是你會看到當地勞工，在後指揮的英國工程師還有更重要地都還在同樣的地點，這些電纜連接的仍是一些古老的港都，像是里斯本，蒙巴薩孟買、新加坡、紐約 而接下來這些海岸邊的工程大概需要三四天當一切完成時，他們重新填上沙井他們用沙重新覆上直到大家都忘了它 就我看來，我們花很多時間在談論雲端但每當我們能夠將東西放到雲端之上我們便放棄了一些責任我們就更少與它連結，我們讓別人去操心這好像不大對勁Neal Stephenson有句名言他說:「被連接的人應該熟知連接他們的橋樑」而我們也該知道，我認為，我們應該知道我們的網路從何而來，而我們該知道實際上、物理上連接著我們的東西是甚麼謝謝各位(鼓掌)(鼓掌)謝謝(鼓掌)"
