Talk	en	zh-tw
andrew_solomon_depression_the_secret_we_share	"""I felt a Funeral, in my Brain, and Mourners to and fro kept treading — treading — till [it seemed] that Sense was breaking through — And when they all were seated, a Service, like a Drum — kept beating — beating — till I [thought] my Mind was going numb — And then I heard them lift a Box and creak across my Soul with those same Boots of Lead, again, then Space — began to toll, As [all] the Heavens were a Bell, and Being, [but] an Ear, and I, and Silence, some strange Race, wrecked, solitary, here — [And] then a Plank in Reason, broke, and I fell down and down — and hit a World, at every plunge, and Finished knowing — then —"" We know depression through metaphors. Emily Dickinson was able to convey it in language, Goya in an image. Half the purpose of art is to describe such iconic states. As for me, I had always thought myself tough, one of the people who could survive if I'd been sent to a concentration camp. In 1991, I had a series of losses. My mother died, a relationship I'd been in ended, I moved back to the United States from some years abroad, and I got through all of those experiences intact. But in 1994, three years later, I found myself losing interest in almost everything. I didn't want to do any of the things I had previously wanted to do, and I didn't know why. The opposite of depression is not happiness, but vitality. And it was vitality that seemed to seep away from me in that moment. Everything there was to do seemed like too much work. I would come home and I would see the red light flashing on my answering machine, and instead of being thrilled to hear from my friends, I would think, ""What a lot of people that is to have to call back."" Or I would decide I should have lunch, and then I would think, but I'd have to get the food out and put it on a plate and cut it up and chew it and swallow it, and it felt to me like the Stations of the Cross. And one of the things that often gets lost in discussions of depression is that you know it's ridiculous. You know it's ridiculous while you're experiencing it. You know that most people manage to listen to their messages and eat lunch and organize themselves to take a shower and go out the front door and that it's not a big deal, and yet you are nonetheless in its grip and you are unable to figure out any way around it. And so I began to feel myself doing less and thinking less and feeling less. It was a kind of nullity. And then the anxiety set in. If you told me that I'd have to be depressed for the next month, I would say, ""As long I know it'll be over in November, I can do it."" But if you said to me, ""You have to have acute anxiety for the next month,"" I would rather slit my wrist than go through it. It was the feeling all the time like that feeling you have if you're walking and you slip or trip and the ground is rushing up at you, but instead of lasting half a second, the way that does, it lasted for six months. It's a sensation of being afraid all the time but not even knowing what it is that you're afraid of. And it was at that point that I began to think that it was just too painful to be alive, and that the only reason not to kill oneself was so as not to hurt other people. And finally one day, I woke up and I thought perhaps I'd had a stroke, because I lay in bed completely frozen, looking at the telephone, thinking, ""Something is wrong and I should call for help,"" and I couldn't reach out my arm and pick up the phone and dial. And finally, after four full hours of my lying and staring at it, the phone rang, and somehow I managed to pick it up, and it was my father, and I said, ""I'm in serious trouble. We need to do something."" The next day I started with the medications and the therapy. And I also started reckoning with this terrible question: If I'm not the tough person who could have made it through a concentration camp, then who am I? And if I have to take medication, is that medication making me more fully myself, or is it making me someone else? And how do I feel about it if it's making me someone else? I had two advantages as I went into the fight. The first is that I knew that, objectively speaking, I had a nice life, and that if I could only get well, there was something at the other end that was worth living for. And the other was that I had access to good treatment. But I nonetheless emerged and relapsed, and emerged and relapsed, and emerged and relapsed, and finally understood I would have to be on medication and in therapy forever. And I thought, ""But is it a chemical problem or a psychological problem? And does it need a chemical cure or a philosophical cure?"" And I couldn't figure out which it was. And then I understood that actually, we aren't advanced enough in either area for it to explain things fully. The chemical cure and the psychological cure both have a role to play, and I also figured out that depression was something that was braided so deep into us that there was no separating it from our character and personality. I want to say that the treatments we have for depression are appalling. They're not very effective. They're extremely costly. They come with innumerable side effects. They're a disaster. But I am so grateful that I live now and not 50 years ago, when there would have been almost nothing to be done. I hope that 50 years hence, people will hear about my treatments and be appalled that anyone endured such primitive science. Depression is the flaw in love. If you were married to someone and thought, ""Well, if my wife dies, I'll find another one,"" it wouldn't be love as we know it. There's no such thing as love without the anticipation of loss, and that specter of despair can be the engine of intimacy. There are three things people tend to confuse: depression, grief and sadness. Grief is explicitly reactive. If you have a loss and you feel incredibly unhappy, and then, six months later, you are still deeply sad, but you're functioning a little better, it's probably grief, and it will probably ultimately resolve itself in some measure. If you experience a catastrophic loss, and you feel terrible, and six months later you can barely function at all, then it's probably a depression that was triggered by the catastrophic circumstances. The trajectory tells us a great deal. People think of depression as being just sadness. It's much, much too much sadness, much too much grief at far too slight a cause. As I set out to understand depression, and to interview people who had experienced it, I found that there were people who seemed, on the surface, to have what sounded like relatively mild depression who were nonetheless utterly disabled by it. And there were other people who had what sounded as they described it like terribly severe depression who nonetheless had good lives in the interstices between their depressive episodes. And I set out to find out what it is that causes some people to be more resilient than other people. What are the mechanisms that allow people to survive? And I went out and I interviewed person after person who was suffering with depression. One of the first people I interviewed described depression as a slower way of being dead, and that was a good thing for me to hear early on because it reminded me that that slow way of being dead can lead to actual deadness, that this is a serious business. It's the leading disability worldwide, and people die of it every day. One of the people I talked to when I was trying to understand this was a beloved friend who I had known for many years, and who had had a psychotic episode in her freshman year of college, and then plummeted into a horrific depression. She had bipolar illness, or manic depression, as it was then known. And then she did very well for many years on lithium, and then eventually, she was taken off her lithium to see how she would do without it, and she had another psychosis, and then plunged into the worst depression that I had ever seen in which she sat in her parents' apartment, more or less catatonic, essentially without moving, day after day after day. And when I interviewed her about that experience some years later — she's a poet and psychotherapist named Maggie Robbins — when I interviewed her, she said, ""I was singing 'Where Have All The Flowers Gone,' over and over, to occupy my mind. I was singing to blot out the things my mind was saying, which were, 'You are nothing. You are nobody. You don't even deserve to live.' And that was when I really started thinking about killing myself."" You don't think in depression that you've put on a gray veil and are seeing the world through the haze of a bad mood. You think that the veil has been taken away, the veil of happiness, and that now you're seeing truly. It's easier to help schizophrenics who perceive that there's something foreign inside of them that needs to be exorcised, but it's difficult with depressives, because we believe we are seeing the truth. But the truth lies. I became obsessed with that sentence: ""But the truth lies."" And I discovered, as I talked to depressive people, that they have many delusional perceptions. People will say, ""No one loves me."" And you say, ""I love you, your wife loves you, your mother loves you."" You can answer that one pretty readily, at least for most people. But people who are depressed will also say, ""No matter what we do, we're all just going to die in the end."" Or they'll say, ""There can be no true communion between two human beings. Each of us is trapped in his own body."" To which you have to say, ""That's true, but I think we should focus right now on what to have for breakfast."" (Laughter) A lot of the time, what they are expressing is not illness, but insight, and one comes to think what's really extraordinary is that most of us know about those existential questions and they don't distract us very much. There was a study I particularly liked in which a group of depressed and a group of non-depressed people were asked to play a video game for an hour, and at the end of the hour, they were asked how many little monsters they thought they had killed. The depressive group was usually accurate to within about 10 percent, and the non-depressed people guessed between 15 and 20 times as many little monsters — (Laughter) as they had actually killed. A lot of people said, when I chose to write about my depression, that it must be very difficult to be out of that closet, to have people know. They said, ""Do people talk to you differently?"" I said, ""Yes, people talk to me differently. They talk to me differently insofar as they start telling me about their experience, or their sister's experience, or their friend's experience. Things are different because now I know that depression is the family secret that everyone has. I went a few years ago to a conference, and on Friday of the three-day conference, one of the participants took me aside, and she said, ""I suffer from depression and I'm a little embarrassed about it, but I've been taking this medication, and I just wanted to ask you what you think?"" And so I did my best to give her such advice as I could. And then she said, ""You know, my husband would never understand this. He's really the kind of guy to whom this wouldn't make any sense, so, you know, it's just between us."" And I said, ""Yes, that's fine."" On Sunday of the same conference, her husband took me aside, (Laughter) and he said, ""My wife wouldn't think that I was really much of a guy if she knew this, but I've been dealing with this depression and I'm taking some medication, and I wondered what you think?"" They were hiding the same medication in two different places in the same bedroom. (Laughter) And I said that I thought communication within the marriage might be triggering some of their problems. (Laughter) But I was also struck by the burdensome nature of such mutual secrecy. Depression is so exhausting. It takes up so much of your time and energy, and silence about it, it really does make the depression worse. And then I began thinking about all the ways people make themselves better. I'd started off as a medical conservative. I thought there were a few kinds of therapy that worked, it was clear what they were — there was medication, there were certain psychotherapies, there was possibly electroconvulsive treatment, and that everything else was nonsense. But then I discovered something. If you have brain cancer, and you say that standing on your head for 20 minutes every morning makes you feel better, it may make you feel better, but you still have brain cancer, and you'll still probably die from it. But if you say that you have depression, and standing on your head for 20 minutes every day makes you feel better, then it's worked, because depression is an illness of how you feel, and if you feel better, then you are effectively not depressed anymore. So I became much more tolerant of the vast world of alternative treatments. And I get letters, I get hundreds of letters from people writing to tell me about what's worked for them. Someone was asking me backstage today about meditation. My favorite of the letters that I got was the one that came from a woman who wrote and said that she had tried therapy, medication, she had tried pretty much everything, and she had found a solution and hoped I would tell the world, and that was making little things from yarn. (Laughter) She sent me some of them. (Laughter) And I'm not wearing them right now. (Laughter) I suggested to her that she also should look up obsessive compulsive disorder in the DSM. And yet, when I went to look at alternative treatments, I also gained perspective on other treatments. I went through a tribal exorcism in Senegal that involved a great deal of ram's blood and that I'm not going to detail right now, but a few years afterwards I was in Rwanda, working on a different project, and I happened to describe my experience to someone, and he said, ""Well, that's West Africa, and we're in East Africa, and our rituals are in some ways very different, but we do have some rituals that have something in common with what you're describing."" And he said, ""But we've had a lot of trouble with Western mental health workers, especially the ones who came right after the genocide."" I said, ""What kind of trouble did you have?"" And he said, ""Well, they would do this bizarre thing. They didn't take people out in the sunshine where you begin to feel better. They didn't include drumming or music to get people's blood going. They didn't involve the whole community. They didn't externalize the depression as an invasive spirit. Instead what they did was they took people one at a time into dingy little rooms and had them talk for an hour about bad things that had happened to them."" (Laughter) (Applause) He said, ""We had to ask them to leave the country."" (Laughter) Now at the other end of alternative treatments, let me tell you about Frank Russakoff. Frank Russakoff had the worst depression perhaps that I've ever seen in a man. He was constantly depressed. He was, when I met him, at a point at which every month, he would have electroshock treatment. Then he would feel sort of disoriented for a week. Then he would feel okay for a week. Then he would have a week of going downhill. And then he would have another electroshock treatment. And he said to me when I met him, ""It's unbearable to go through my weeks this way. I can't go on this way, and I've figured out how I'm going to end it if I don't get better."" ""But,"" he said to me, ""I heard about a protocol at Mass General for a procedure called a cingulotomy, which is a brain surgery, and I think I'm going to give that a try."" And I remember being amazed at that point to think that someone who clearly had so many bad experiences with so many different treatments still had buried in him, somewhere, enough optimism to reach out for one more. And he had the cingulotomy, and it was incredibly successful. He's now a friend of mine. He has a lovely wife and two beautiful children. He wrote me a letter the Christmas after the surgery, and he said, ""My father sent me two presents this year, First, a motorized CD rack from The Sharper Image that I didn't really need, but I knew he was giving it to me to celebrate the fact that I'm living on my own and have a job I seem to love. And the other present was a photo of my grandmother, who committed suicide. As I unwrapped it, I began to cry, and my mother came over and said, 'Are you crying because of the relatives you never knew?' And I said, 'She had the same disease I have.' I'm crying now as I write to you. It's not that I'm so sad, but I get overwhelmed, I think, because I could have killed myself, but my parents kept me going, and so did the doctors, and I had the surgery. I'm alive and grateful. We live in the right time, even if it doesn't always feel like it."" I was struck by the fact that depression is broadly perceived to be a modern, Western, middle-class thing, and I went to look at how it operated in a variety of other contexts, and one of the things I was most interested in was depression among the indigent. And so I went out to try to look at what was being done for poor people with depression. And what I discovered is that poor people are mostly not being treated for depression. Depression is the result of a genetic vulnerability, which is presumably evenly distributed in the population, and triggering circumstances, which are likely to be more severe for people who are impoverished. And yet it turns out that if you have a really lovely life but feel miserable all the time, you think, ""Why do I feel like this? I must have depression."" And you set out to find treatment for it. But if you have a perfectly awful life, and you feel miserable all the time, the way you feel is commensurate with your life, and it doesn't occur to you to think, ""Maybe this is treatable."" And so we have an epidemic in this country of depression among impoverished people that's not being picked up and that's not being treated and that's not being addressed, and it's a tragedy of a grand order. And so I found an academic who was doing a research project in slums outside of D.C., where she picked up women who had come in for other health problems and diagnosed them with depression, and then provided six months of the experimental protocol. One of them, Lolly, came in, and this is what she said the day she came in. She said, and she was a woman, by the way, who had seven children. She said, ""I used to have a job but I had to give it up because I couldn't go out of the house. I have nothing to say to my children. In the morning, I can't wait for them to leave, and then I climb in bed and pull the covers over my head, and three o'clock when they come home, it just comes so fast."" She said, ""I've been taking a lot of Tylenol, anything I can take so that I can sleep more. My husband has been telling me I'm stupid, I'm ugly. I wish I could stop the pain."" Well, she was brought into this experimental protocol, and when I interviewed her six months later, she had taken a job working in childcare for the U.S. Navy, she had left the abusive husband, and she said to me, ""My kids are so much happier now."" She said, ""There's one room in my new place for the boys and one room for the girls, but at night, they're just all up on my bed, and we're doing homework all together and everything. One of them wants to be a preacher, one of them wants to be a firefighter, and one of the girls says she's going to be a lawyer. They don't cry like they used to, and they don't fight like they did. That's all I need now, is my kids. Things keep on changing, the way I dress, the way I feel, the way I act. I can go outside not being afraid anymore, and I don't think those bad feelings are coming back, and if it weren't for Dr. Miranda and that, I would still be at home with the covers pulled over my head, if I were still alive at all. I asked the Lord to send me an angel, and He heard my prayers."" I was really moved by these experiences, and I decided that I wanted to write about them not only in a book I was working on, but also in an article, and I got a commission from The New York Times Magazine to write about depression among the indigent. And I turned in my story, and my editor called me and said, ""We really can't publish this."" And I said, ""Why not?"" And she said, ""It just is too far-fetched. These people who are sort of at the very bottom rung of society and then they get a few months of treatment and they're virtually ready to run Morgan Stanley? It's just too implausible."" She said, ""I've never even heard of anything like it."" And I said, ""The fact that you've never heard of it is an indication that it is news."" (Laughter) (Applause) ""And you are a news magazine."" So after a certain amount of negotiation, they agreed to it. But I think a lot of what they said was connected in some strange way to this distaste that people still have for the idea of treatment, the notion that somehow if we went out and treated a lot of people in indigent communities, that would be exploitative, because we would be changing them. There is this false moral imperative that seems to be all around us, that treatment of depression, the medications and so on, are an artifice, and that it's not natural. And I think that's very misguided. It would be natural for people's teeth to fall out, but there is nobody militating against toothpaste, at least not in my circles. People then say, ""But isn't depression part of what people are supposed to experience? Didn't we evolve to have depression? Isn't it part of your personality?"" To which I would say, mood is adaptive. Being able to have sadness and fear and joy and pleasure and all of the other moods that we have, that's incredibly valuable. And major depression is something that happens when that system gets broken. It's maladaptive. People will come to me and say, ""I think, though, if I just stick it out for another year, I think I can just get through this."" And I always say to them, ""You may get through it, but you'll never be 37 again. Life is short, and that's a whole year you're talking about giving up. Think it through."" It's a strange poverty of the English language, and indeed of many other languages, that we use this same word, depression, to describe how a kid feels when it rains on his birthday, and to describe how somebody feels the minute before they commit suicide. People say to me, ""Well, is it continuous with normal sadness?"" And I say, in a way it's continuous with normal sadness. There is a certain amount of continuity, but it's the same way there's continuity between having an iron fence outside your house that gets a little rust spot that you have to sand off and do a little repainting, and what happens if you leave the house for 100 years and it rusts through until it's only a pile of orange dust. And it's that orange dust spot, that orange dust problem, that's the one we're setting out to address. So now people say, ""You take these happy pills, and do you feel happy?"" And I don't. But I don't feel sad about having to eat lunch, and I don't feel sad about my answering machine, and I don't feel sad about taking a shower. I feel more, in fact, I think, because I can feel sadness without nullity. I feel sad about professional disappointments, about damaged relationships, about global warming. Those are the things that I feel sad about now. And I said to myself, well, what is the conclusion? How did those people who have better lives even with bigger depression manage to get through? What is the mechanism of resilience? And what I came up with over time was that the people who deny their experience, and say, ""I was depressed a long time ago, I never want to think about it again, I'm not going to look at it and I'm just going to get on with my life,"" ironically, those are the people who are most enslaved by what they have. Shutting out the depression strengthens it. While you hide from it, it grows. And the people who do better are the ones who are able to tolerate the fact that they have this condition. Those who can tolerate their depression are the ones who achieve resilience. So Frank Russakoff said to me, ""If I had a do-over, I suppose I wouldn't do it this way, but in a strange way, I'm grateful for what I've experienced. I'm glad to have been in the hospital 40 times. It taught me so much about love, and my relationship with my parents and my doctors has been so precious to me, and will be always."" And Maggie Robbins said, ""I used to volunteer in an AIDS clinic, and I would just talk and talk and talk, and the people I was dealing with weren't very responsive, and I thought, 'That's not very friendly or helpful of them.'"" (Laughter) ""And then I realized, I realized that they weren't going to do more than make those first few minutes of small talk. It was simply going to be an occasion where I didn't have AIDS and I wasn't dying, but could tolerate the fact that they did and they were. Our needs are our greatest assets. It turns out I've learned to give all the things I need."" Valuing one's depression does not prevent a relapse, but it may make the prospect of relapse and even relapse itself easier to tolerate. The question is not so much of finding great meaning and deciding your depression has been very meaningful. It's of seeking that meaning and thinking, when it comes again, ""This will be hellish, but I will learn something from it."" I have learned in my own depression how big an emotion can be, how it can be more real than facts, and I have found that that experience has allowed me to experience positive emotion in a more intense and more focused way. The opposite of depression is not happiness, but vitality, and these days, my life is vital, even on the days when I'm sad. I felt that funeral in my brain, and I sat next to the colossus at the edge of the world, and I have discovered something inside of myself that I would have to call a soul that I had never formulated until that day 20 years ago when hell came to pay me a surprise visit. I think that while I hated being depressed and would hate to be depressed again, I've found a way to love my depression. I love it because it has forced me to find and cling to joy. I love it because each day I decide, sometimes gamely, and sometimes against the moment's reason, to cleave to the reasons for living. And that, I think, is a highly privileged rapture. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	「在我的腦海中，有一場葬禮，哀悼者來來去去，不停踩踏，踩踏，直到我感覺感官衝破了覺知。當眾人全都就座，儀式開始，像擊鼓般，不斷敲擊、敲擊，直到感覺我的意識就此麻木。此刻我聽見他們抬起棺木，嘰嘎聲穿透我的魂。鉛靴的踏步聲再度揚起，伴隨喪鐘迴盪，彷彿天空是具大鐘，只剩下一只耳朵存在，而我與寂靜間，一場微妙的追逐，獨自在此破碎。就在此時，理性忽然斷了弦，我不斷墜落，每次墜落都撞上一個世界，最終豁然開朗。 」 我們透過文學隱喻認識了憂鬱。艾蜜莉．狄更生（十九世紀美國詩人）用詩歌描寫它，哥雅（西班牙畫家）用繪畫詮釋，半數藝術品的目的是為了描述這象徵性的狀態。 對我而言，我總把自己看做一名鬥士，是那種即使被送往集中營也可以存活下來的人。 1991 年，我經歷了一連串的不幸。我的母親去世，戀情終結，多年居住外國之後，我返回了美國。我安然無恙地經歷這一切。 但是到了 1994 年，即三年之後，我發現自己對所有的事情都失去了興趣。任何我曾經喜歡做的事情，我都不願意做。對此我毫無頭緒。憂鬱的反面不是快樂，而是活力。正是這種活力，在那時似乎從我體內一點一點地消失。任何需要做的事情都變得困難無比。我回到家裡，看到答錄機上閃爍跳躍的紅燈，我非但不會因為有朋友的音訊而感到興奮。我會想著：「怎麼有這麼多人需要我回覆電話！」又比如，我知道自己該吃午餐了。我就會想，我需要把食物取出來，放在盤子上，切開它們，嚼碎它們再嚥下去。這對我就像耶穌受難一樣難熬。 有關憂鬱的討論中，有一點經常讓人困惑，那就是你明白這一切都很荒謬。當你經歷這一切的時候，你知道這很荒謬。你知道大多數人能夠聽他們的電話留言、吃午飯、打點好自己、沖個澡，然後走出大門。這些事無關緊要，但你卻依然深陷其中，你無法找到逃離的方式。於是我發現自己做的事越來越少，思考愈來愈少，感覺越來越少，處在一種虛無狀態中。 這時焦慮出現了。如果你告訴我，我會在下個月一直憂鬱，我會說：「只要我知道，憂鬱會在 11 月消失，我就能挺過去。」然而如果你這樣說：「你會在下個月嚴重焦慮。」我寧願割腕也不願意承受。這是一種持續的感受，就好像你走在路上，你跌倒了或者絆倒了，地面猛然衝向你。但是這感覺不是只有半秒，這感覺要持續六個月。這是一種無時無刻感到害怕，卻不知道你在害怕什麼的感覺。那一刻我開始想，活著太痛苦了。人不會自殺的唯一理由，就是不想傷害旁人。 終於有一天，我醒來，我想我可能中風了。因為我躺在床上，渾身僵硬。我看著電話，心想：「出事了，我應該打電話求救。」我卻無法伸出胳膊，無法拿起電話撥號，終於，在我躺著盯著電話整整四個小時之後，電話響了。不知怎麼我拿起了聽筒，那是我父親來電。我說：「我麻煩大了，我們必須做點什麼。 」 第二天我開始接受藥物治療和心理治療。並且我開始思索這個可怕的問題：如果我不是個堅強的人，不是那種可以在集中營裡存活的人，那麼我是誰？如果我必須服用藥物，那麼藥物是讓我變得更像我自己，還是讓我變成了別人？我要如何知道藥物是否讓我變成了別人呢？ 在這場戰鬥中我有兩個優勢：第一，我很清楚，客觀地說，我有很好的生活。一旦我好起來，還會有一些東西值得我去追求。另外一點是我能接受很好的治療。 然而我卻反覆發作，好轉又發作，又一次好轉，再發作。終於我明白，自己必須一輩子服藥和治療。於是我想：「但是這到底是化學問題還是心理問題？是需要化學療法還是哲學療法？」我想不出是哪一種。接著我懂了，事實上，我們對這兩個領域的了解都不足以完全解釋真相。化學療法和心理療法都有各自的作用。同時我明白了憂鬱是一種深深根植於我們體內的東西。我們無法從性格和個性中將憂鬱剝離開來。 我想說我們對憂鬱的治療方法太過恐怖。這些方法不太有效，而且代價高昂，還帶來無數副作用，簡直就是場災難。不過我很慶幸自己活在現代，而不是 50 年前，那時候幾乎沒有任何治療的辦法。我想 50 年以後，人們聽說我的治療方法，會驚訝於居然有人能忍受如此原始粗糙的科學。 憂鬱是愛的缺陷。如果你將要和另一半結婚，然後想：「好吧，如果我妻子死了，我會再找一個。」這不是我們熟知的愛情。沒有這樣一種愛情，只有獲取幸福卻不用體驗失去。這種絕望的幽靈，會是親密關係的動力。 人們容易混淆三件事：憂鬱，悲傷和難過。悲傷是明確的反應。如果你因為損失而感到非常不開心，那麼六個月之後，你仍然很難過，但日常作息好轉了一些。這大概就是悲傷。它可能最終在一定程度上能自行修復。如果你經歷了一次災難性的打擊，你感覺非常糟糕，六個月之後依然無法正常生活，那麼可能就是一種憂鬱被災難性的情形所觸發了。這個分析軌跡告訴我們很多訊息。人們認為憂鬱只是難過。只是太多太多的難過，太多太多的悲傷，因為微不足道的事情而起。 當我開始了解憂鬱，採訪了經歷過憂鬱的人們，我發現有些人表面上看起來似乎有輕微的憂鬱，他們卻因此完全喪失了行為能力。另外一些人，根據他們的描述，有非常嚴重的憂鬱，卻能在憂鬱的間隙過著不錯的生活。我開始著手研究，為什麼有些人比另一些人有更好的復元能力。是什麼機制讓人得以倖存？我出去採訪了一個又一個因憂鬱而受苦的人。 我最早採訪的某個人將憂鬱描述為一種緩慢的死亡方式。最初就聽到這說法對我來說是好事，因為它提醒了我緩慢的死亡可以通往真正的死亡。這可是正經話。憂鬱是世界上名列前茅的身心障礙，每天都有人因此喪生。 當我試著了解這些的時候，我的一位採訪對象，也是我的摯友，我與她相識多年。在她大一的時候，有過一次精神病發作，之後她陷入了可怕的憂鬱。她患有雙相障礙，當時也稱為躁鬱症。經過多年的鋰治療，她恢復得不錯。於是到最後，她停止了化學治療，看看自己不治療能撐多久。然而她的精神病復發，接著陷入了我所見過最嚴重的憂鬱。她坐在父母的公寓裡，多少有點緊張型精神分裂症，幾乎一動也不動，就這樣過了一天又一天。多年後我採訪她，談起了這段經歷──她叫瑪姬．羅賓 (Maggie Robbins) ，是一位詩人和精神治療師──當我採訪她時，她說：「 當時我一遍一遍地唱著《花兒都去哪兒了》，滿腦子都是這首歌。我唱著歌來清除腦子裡的那個聲音，那個聲音說：『你什麼都不是，你一文不名。你不配活著。』從那一刻起，我真的開始想要殺死我自己。 」 你憂鬱的時候，並不像是你戴上了一個灰色面紗，透過沮喪情緒的霧霾來看待這個世界。而是你認為那層快樂的面紗已經被拿走，所以現在你面對的是赤裸裸的現實。幫助精神分裂症患者相對容易一些，他們知道身體裡有異物，需要把它們弄出去。而對於憂鬱症患者就困難多了，因為我們相信自己看到的是現實。 但是事實會說謊。我為這句話著迷：「事實會說謊。」據我觀察，當我和憂鬱症患者交談時，他們有許多妄想的念頭。他們會說：「沒人愛我。」你會說：「我愛你，你的妻子愛你，你的媽媽愛你。」你可以馬上說出這個答案，至少大多數人是這樣。但是憂鬱症患者還會說：「不管我們做什麼，最終，我們都會死去。」或者他們會說：「人與人之間不可能有真正的交流。我們每個人都被困在自己的身體裡。」關於這點你會反駁說：「這沒錯，但是我認為，我們當下應該考慮的是早飯吃什麼。」（笑聲）大多數時候，他們所表現出來的不是病症，而是思想偏執。他們對這些問題特別在意，而大多數人都知道這些存在主義問題，但是我們不會太困擾。我特別喜歡這個研究：一群憂鬱症患者和一群非憂鬱症患者被要求玩一個小時的電玩。一小時後問他們，他們認為自己殺死了多少只小怪獸。憂鬱症組的回答通常是準確的，誤差在 10％ 以內。而非憂鬱症組的人，回答打死小怪獸的數量比實際數目多了 15 到 20 倍 。──（笑聲）── 當我選擇寫下我自己的憂鬱經歷，很多人說要揭開這個秘密，讓別人知道，一定非常困難。他們說：「人們會用不同的口吻和你說話嗎？」我回答：「是的，人們用不一樣的語氣和我說話。這種不一樣表現在他們會開始和我談自己的經歷，或者他們姐妹的經歷，或者他們朋友的經歷。事情和以前有所不同，因為現在我知道憂鬱是每個家庭裡的秘密。 幾年前我參加一個會議，會議有三天，這天是週五。一名與會者把我拉到一旁，對我說：「我有憂鬱症，我覺得有點不好意思，但是我一直在服這種藥，我只想問問你的意見？」於是我盡我所能給了她一些建議。然後她說：「你知道，我丈夫永遠不會理解這些。他就是那種認為這些都是胡說八道的人，所以我想，嗯，希望我們的談話能保密。」我回答：「當然沒問題。」週日在同一個會議上，她的丈夫把我拉到一邊，他說：「我妻子如果知道這事，她就不會覺得我是個男子漢，但是我一直在對抗憂鬱，而且在服用藥物，我想能否聽聽你的建議？」他們兩個把同樣的藥物藏在臥室不同的地方。於是我對他說，我認為婚姻中的溝通可能引起他們的某些問題。（笑聲）不過我也震驚於這種相互隱瞞的惱人天性。憂鬱令人精疲力盡，它消耗了你那麼多的時間和精力。對此緘口不提，只會讓憂鬱更糟糕。 我開始考慮各種方法可以讓人們感覺更好。一開始我對醫學治療較保守。我認為一些療法是有效的，它們確實有效──包括藥物治療，還有一些特定的心理治療，電痙攣療法也可能有效。除此以外的都沒用。但是後來我發現，如果你得了腦癌，而且你認為每天早上倒立 20 分鐘能讓你感覺好些，這可能讓你感覺好一些，但是你仍然會有腦癌。你還是有可能因此死去。不過如果你說你得了憂鬱症，然後每天倒立 20 分鐘讓你感覺好些，那麼這是有效的。因為憂鬱是一種關於感受的疾病。如果你感覺好一點了，那麼你就不會那麼憂鬱了。所以我開始對無數的替代療法抱有更加寬容的看法。 我收到來信，多達幾百封的來信。人們來信告訴我，什麼樣的療法對他們有效。今天有人在後臺問我關於藥物治療的事情。我最喜歡的一封來信是來自一位女士。她說她嘗試過心理治療，也嘗試過藥物治療，嘗試了幾乎所有的治療方式。她找到一個治療方法希望我能告訴全世界，那就是用紗線做些小東西。（笑聲）她還寄給我一些她的作品。（笑聲）我今天並沒有把它們戴在身上，我建議她還應該去醫院，檢查一下是否得了強迫症。 然而，當我去了解各種療法的時候，我也對其它療法有了新看法。我在塞內加爾參加了一次部落驅魔，裡面還有很多公羊的血，這裡我就不描述細節了。但是多年之後，我在盧旺達做另一個計畫。我湊巧把自己的經歷告訴某個人，他說：「嗯，你知道，那裡是西非，我們這兒是東非，我們的儀式在一些方面很不同，不過我們確實有一些儀式內容和你描述的相同。」我回答說「哦。」然後他說：「是的。」他又說：「不過西方的心理工作者讓我們很苦惱，尤其是大屠殺之後來的那些心理醫生。」我問：「你對他們有什麼意見嗎？」他回答：「嗯，他們做一些古怪的事。他們不帶人們去陽光下，那裡才讓人感覺舒服。他們不用鼓聲或者音樂使人血脈沸騰，他們不動員整個社區的人，他們不把憂鬱看做侵略性的幽靈進行驅逐。相反的是，他們把人們一個個帶到昏暗的小屋子裡，跟他們談上一個小時，談論發生在他們身上的悲慘故事。」（笑聲）（鼓掌）他說：「我們不得不要求他們離境。」（笑聲） 談到另一種替代療法，我和大家說說法蘭克 (Frank Russakoff) 的故事。法蘭克得了非常糟糕的憂鬱症，也許是我所見過最嚴重的病患。他一直處於憂鬱狀態。我遇到他時，他每個月都要接受電擊治療，之後一週他會感覺茫然迷惘，下一週他會覺得舒服一些，再下週他就會墜入谷底，那時他就會再做一次電擊治療。我遇到他時，他告訴我：「我無法忍受這樣一週一週的循環。我不能繼續這樣下去，我已經想好了怎麼結束這一切，如果我不能好起來的話。但是，我聽說在麻省總醫院有一項醫療實驗叫做扣帶回切開術，是一種腦部手術，我想去試試看。」我記得當時自己很吃驚，想到他這個人有過那麼多悲慘的經歷，用了那麼多不同的療法，在他內心某處依然懷有一種樂觀天性，支撐著他再試一次。他做了扣帶回切開手術，出乎意料地成功。他現在是我的朋友，有一個可愛的妻子和兩個漂亮的孩子。術後的聖誕節他寫了一封信給我，他說：「今年我父親寄了兩個聖誕禮物給我，第一個禮物是夏珀影像的唱片電動收藏架。我並不很需要這個，但是我明白，他送我這個是為了慶祝我獨立生活，並且有了一份自己還算喜歡的工作。另一份禮物是一張我祖母的照片。我祖母是自殺去世的。當我拆開包裝的時候，我哭了。我母親走過來問我：「你是因為沒有見過她才哭的嗎？」我回答：「我哭是因為她得了跟我一樣的病。」寫給你這封信的時候，我正在流淚。不是因為悲傷，而是我無法承受。我想我差點就會自殺，但是我的父母讓我挺過來了，還有醫生們也幫助我，讓我做了手術。我活了下來，充滿感激。我生在一個美好的時代，雖然不是每時每刻感覺都美好。」 讓我震驚的是，憂鬱症廣泛地被看做是一種現代西方世界中產階級的產物。於是我開始觀察憂鬱症在不同情境下的表現方式。其中我最感興趣的是生活貧苦的憂鬱症患者。所以我開始嘗試研究，了解窮人如何治療憂鬱症。我發現窮人幾乎都沒有得到憂鬱症的治療。憂鬱症是一種基因缺陷，它大致上平均分佈於人群中。在窮人身上，憂鬱症的情況可能會更為嚴重。然而如果你有美好的人生，但卻總是不開心，你會想：「我為什麼感到不開心？我肯定是憂鬱了。」於是你到處尋找治療方法。但是如果你的生活一團糟，你總是感到不開心，那麼你的感受和生活狀態是相符的。你就不會想：「也許這病醫得好。」所以我們國家的低收入人群中，憂鬱症像傳染病一樣到處蔓延，卻沒有被關注和治療。這個問題一直沒有解決，變成了一個巨大的悲劇。我找到一位學者，她在華盛頓特區外圍的貧民窟裡進行一項研究。她挑出一些因為患其它疾病而就醫的女性，診斷出她們有憂鬱症後，為她們提供了六個月的實驗計劃。其中的一位叫羅莉，這是她第一天來看病時的陳述。她是一位女性，順帶一提。她有七個孩子，她說：「我以前有份工作，但是我不得不辭職。因為我無法走出家門。我和我的孩子無話可說，早上，我巴不得他們都快點離開上學去。然後我就爬到床上，用被子蒙住腦袋。下午三點他們就回家了，時間過得超快。」她說：「我已經吃了很多泰諾，吃各種藥，好讓自己多睡一會。我丈夫一直說我又蠢又醜。我希望能停止痛苦。」 她後來被加入到實驗治療計劃。六個月之後我採訪了她，她已經在美國海軍幼兒園工作，她離開了虐待她的丈夫。她對我說：「我的孩子們現在開心多了。」還說：「我的新家裡有一間房間給男孩子，一間房間給女孩子，但是到了晚上，他們都會來到我的床頭。我們一起做功課，一起做每件事。我有個兒子想當牧師，還有一個兒子想做個消防員，其中一個女兒說她以後會當個律師。他們不再像過去一樣哭泣，也不像過去一樣打架。如今我只需要我的孩子們就夠了。一切都不斷變化，我的穿著、我的情緒、我的行為都變了。我不再畏懼出門，我想那些壞情緒再也不會回來了。這多虧了米蘭達醫生。不然我還待在家裡蒙頭大睡。前提是我還活著。我向上帝禱告，賜我一個天使吧，衪真的聽到了我的祈禱。」 我真的被這些經歷深深打動。我決定寫下這些，不僅僅寫在我的書中，還要寫一篇文章。我從紐約時代雜誌得到一份約稿，寫寫低收入者的憂鬱情況。 我交出了稿件，我的編輯打電話告訴我：「我們可不能發表這個。」 我問：「為什麼不行？」 她回答說：「這故事太勉強了。這些人處於社會最底層，然後他們接受了幾個月的治療，接著就能去管理摩根斯坦利了？（Morgan Stanley：知名投資公司）這太沒說服力了。」她說：「我從來沒聽過這種事情。」 我回答：「你沒有聽過這樣的事情，正說明了這是條新聞。」（笑聲）（掌聲）「而你們可是一家新聞雜誌社。」 經過一些交涉協商，他們同意發表。之後我想了很多，雜誌社的想法在某個詭異的層面上跟另一個觀點雷同，即人們依然對治療憂鬱症覺得反感。如果我們去貧窮地區大規模治療人們的憂鬱症，這會是一件具有剝削意義的事情，因為我們將會改造他們。似乎所有的人都有一種錯誤的道德約束，認為憂鬱症的治療，包括藥物和其他治療，都是人工的、而不是自然的過程。我想這想法是非常誤導人的。按照自然規律，人的牙齒應該逐漸掉落，但是沒人會反對使用牙膏，至少我身邊沒人反對。 接著人們會說：「那麼，憂鬱症難道不是人們應該經歷的過程嗎？憂鬱難道不是我們演化的結果嗎？它不是個性的一部分嗎？」對此我想說的是，情緒是可以適應調整的。我們能夠感受悲傷、害怕、快樂、愉悅，和其它所有的情緒，這彌足珍貴。當這個感覺系統失靈的時候，嚴重的憂鬱症就出現了，這是情緒上無法適應。 人們來找我，跟我說：「即使如此，我想如果能再堅持一年，我就能好起來。」 我總是這樣回答他們：「你可能會好起來，但是你的 37 歲無法再來一次。人生短暫，你打算放棄這整整一年，你再想想吧。」 英語其實貧瘠得有點怪，實際上很多其它語言也是如此，我們用同一個詞（depression：沮喪）來形容小孩在過生日那天碰到下雨的心情。同時也用這個詞來形容人們自殺前一分鐘的心情。 人們問我：「那麼，憂鬱是不是連續的悲傷？」我回答在某種意義上，憂鬱就是長時間的悲傷。悲傷和憂鬱之間有一定的連續性。但是兩者的連續性，就像是悲傷就像是你家院子裡的鐵柵欄有點鏽斑，於是你必須打砂紙和重新上點漆。憂鬱則像是如果你離家 100 年之後，鐵柵欄從裡到外鏽到只剩下一堆橘色粉末。而就是那堆橘色粉末，那堆橘色的麻煩就是我們要解決的問題。 所以現在人們問：「你吃了那些讓你快樂的藥，感覺開心嗎？」不，我不會開心。但是我不再為了得吃午飯而沮喪，不再因為電話答錄機而難過，也不會因為要洗澡而煩惱。實際上，我想我能感受到更多。因為我可以感覺到傷心，但不空虛。我因為工作上的不順心而難過，因為破碎的愛情而傷心，因為全球暖化而傷心，現在這些事情讓我感到悲傷。我問自己，那麼結論是什麼呢？那些生活優渥、病情更加嚴重的憂鬱症患者是怎麼熬過去的？挺過去的方法是什麼呢？時間流逝，我想到的是，那些否定自己經歷的人，他們會說：「很久以前我憂鬱了。我不想再想那些經歷，我不想再看它，我只想繼續我的生活。」諷刺的是，那些人往往被自己的經歷所困。迴避憂鬱只會讓它更強大。越逃離，它就越強大。能夠好起來的人，他們能夠接受事實，承認自己的症狀。那些可以接納自己有憂鬱症的人會康復起來。 法蘭克後來告訴我：「如果一切從頭來過，我想我不會這樣做，但是很奇怪，我對自己的經歷非常感激。我很高興自己住了 40 次醫院，這些經歷教會了我什麼是愛，我和父母、醫生之間的關係對我而言非常珍貴，一輩子都受用。」 瑪姬曾說：「我以前在愛滋診所裡擔任志工。我會滔滔不絕地對著我負責的病患說話。他們沒太大反應，於是我想：「他們真不友善，也不配合。」後來我意識到，我意識到他們無法做到更多，除了完成剛開始那幾分鐘的閒談。這只是一個機會，讓他們看到，雖然我沒有愛滋病，也不會死去，但是我可以接受他們的疾病，還有他們正在死去的事實。我們的需求是我們最寶貴的財富。我發現自己學會了付出自己擁有的一切。」 正視憂鬱的價值不能防止憂鬱的復發，但是可能會使復發的結果好一些，甚至能讓自己更容易熬過去。問題並不在於找尋重大的意義，或者判斷你的憂鬱是否很有意義。而是當憂鬱捲土重來的時候，尋找它的意義，並想：「這會很可怕，但是我會從中獲益。」我從自己的憂鬱中學到，情緒的力量有多大，它甚至可以比事實更加真實。我也發現那些經歷用一種更為強烈和聚焦的方式讓我經歷正向的情緒。憂鬱的反面不是快樂，而是活力。現在，我的生活充滿活力，即使在我感到難過的時候也是如此。我曾在腦中感受到那場葬禮，我坐在一個巨人身邊，就在世界的邊緣，我發現我的體內有個東西，我稱之為靈魂。20 年前它從未成型，直到地獄冷不防地拜訪我。我想即使我痛恨自己的憂鬱，痛恨又被憂鬱纏上，我還是找到了一種方法讓自己愛上它。我愛自己的憂鬱，因為它迫使我尋找和抓緊快樂。我愛我的憂鬱，因為每天，我都決定去抓住活下去的理由。雖然有時候不拘小節，有時候不合時宜。我想，這真是天賜的無上喜悅。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
