Talk	en	zh-tw
andrea_ghez_the_hunt_for_a_supermassive_black_hole	"How do you observe something you can't see? This is the basic question of somebody who's interested in finding and studying black holes. Because black holes are objects whose pull of gravity is so intense that nothing can escape it, not even light, so you can't see it directly. So, my story today about black holes is about one particular black hole. I'm interested in finding whether or not there is a really massive, what we like to call ""supermassive"" black hole at the center of our galaxy. And the reason this is interesting is that it gives us an opportunity to prove whether or not these exotic objects really exist. And second, it gives us the opportunity to understand how these supermassive black holes interact with their environment, and to understand how they affect the formation and evolution of the galaxies which they reside in. So, to begin with, we need to understand what a black hole is so we can understand the proof of a black hole. So, what is a black hole? Well, in many ways a black hole is an incredibly simple object, because there are only three characteristics that you can describe: the mass, the spin, and the charge. And I'm going to only talk about the mass. So, in that sense, it's a very simple object. But in another sense, it's an incredibly complicated object that we need relatively exotic physics to describe, and in some sense represents the breakdown of our physical understanding of the universe. But today, the way I want you to understand a black hole, for the proof of a black hole, is to think of it as an object whose mass is confined to zero volume. So, despite the fact that I'm going to talk to you about an object that's supermassive, and I'm going to get to what that really means in a moment, it has no finite size. So, this is a little tricky. But fortunately there is a finite size that you can see, and that's known as the Schwarzschild radius. And that's named after the guy who recognized why it was such an important radius. This is a virtual radius, not reality; the black hole has no size. So why is it so important? It's important because it tells us that any object can become a black hole. That means you, your neighbor, your cellphone, the auditorium can become a black hole if you can figure out how to compress it down to the size of the Schwarzschild radius. At that point, what's going to happen? At that point gravity wins. Gravity wins over all other known forces. And the object is forced to continue to collapse to an infinitely small object. And then it's a black hole. So, if I were to compress the Earth down to the size of a sugar cube, it would become a black hole, because the size of a sugar cube is its Schwarzschild radius. Now, the key here is to figure out what that Schwarzschild radius is. And it turns out that it's actually pretty simple to figure out. It depends only on the mass of the object. Bigger objects have bigger Schwarzschild radii. Smaller objects have smaller Schwarzschild radii. So, if I were to take the sun and compress it down to the scale of the University of Oxford, it would become a black hole. So, now we know what a Schwarzschild radius is. And it's actually quite a useful concept, because it tells us not only when a black hole will form, but it also gives us the key elements for the proof of a black hole. I only need two things. I need to understand the mass of the object I'm claiming is a black hole, and what its Schwarzschild radius is. And since the mass determines the Schwarzschild radius, there is actually only one thing I really need to know. So, my job in convincing you that there is a black hole is to show that there is some object that's confined to within its Schwarzschild radius. And your job today is to be skeptical. Okay, so, I'm going to talk about no ordinary black hole; I'm going to talk about supermassive black holes. So, I wanted to say a few words about what an ordinary black hole is, as if there could be such a thing as an ordinary black hole. An ordinary black hole is thought to be the end state of a really massive star's life. So, if a star starts its life off with much more mass than the mass of the Sun, it's going to end its life by exploding and leaving behind these beautiful supernova remnants that we see here. And inside that supernova remnant is going to be a little black hole that has a mass roughly three times the mass of the Sun. On an astronomical scale that's a very small black hole. Now, what I want to talk about are the supermassive black holes. And the supermassive black holes are thought to reside at the center of galaxies. And this beautiful picture taken with the Hubble Space Telescope shows you that galaxies come in all shapes and sizes. There are big ones. There are little ones. Almost every object in that picture there is a galaxy. And there is a very nice spiral up in the upper left. And there are a hundred billion stars in that galaxy, just to give you a sense of scale. And all the light that we see from a typical galaxy, which is the kind of galaxies that we're seeing here, comes from the light from the stars. So, we see the galaxy because of the star light. Now, there are a few relatively exotic galaxies. I like to call these the prima donna of the galaxy world, because they are kind of show offs. And we call them active galactic nuclei. And we call them that because their nucleus, or their center, are very active. So, at the center there, that's actually where most of the starlight comes out from. And yet, what we actually see is light that can't be explained by the starlight. It's way more energetic. In fact, in a few examples it's like the ones that we're seeing here. There are also jets emanating out from the center. Again, a source of energy that's very difficult to explain if you just think that galaxies are composed of stars. So, what people have thought is that perhaps there are supermassive black holes which matter is falling on to. So, you can't see the black hole itself, but you can convert the gravitational energy of the black hole into the light we see. So, there is the thought that maybe supermassive black holes exist at the center of galaxies. But it's a kind of indirect argument. Nonetheless, it's given rise to the notion that maybe it's not just these prima donnas that have these supermassive black holes, but rather all galaxies might harbor these supermassive black holes at their centers. And if that's the case — and this is an example of a normal galaxy; what we see is the star light. And if there is a supermassive black hole, what we need to assume is that it's a black hole on a diet. Because that is the way to suppress the energetic phenomena that we see in active galactic nuclei. If we're going to look for these stealth black holes at the center of galaxies, the best place to look is in our own galaxy, our Milky Way. And this is a wide field picture taken of the center of the Milky Way. And what we see is a line of stars. And that is because we live in a galaxy which has a flattened, disk-like structure. And we live in the middle of it, so when we look towards the center, we see this plane which defines the plane of the galaxy, or line that defines the plane of the galaxy. Now, the advantage of studying our own galaxy is it's simply the closest example of the center of a galaxy that we're ever going to have, because the next closest galaxy is 100 times further away. So, we can see far more detail in our galaxy than anyplace else. And as you'll see in a moment, the ability to see detail is key to this experiment. So, how do astronomers prove that there is a lot of mass inside a small volume? Which is the job that I have to show you today. And the tool that we use is to watch the way stars orbit the black hole. Stars will orbit the black hole in the very same way that planets orbit the sun. It's the gravitational pull that makes these things orbit. If there were no massive objects these things would go flying off, or at least go at a much slower rate because all that determines how they go around is how much mass is inside its orbit. So, this is great, because remember my job is to show there is a lot of mass inside a small volume. So, if I know how fast it goes around, I know the mass. And if I know the scale of the orbit I know the radius. So, I want to see the stars that are as close to the center of the galaxy as possible. Because I want to show there is a mass inside as small a region as possible. So, this means that I want to see a lot of detail. And that's the reason that for this experiment we've used the world's largest telescope. This is the Keck observatory. It hosts two telescopes with a mirror 10 meters, which is roughly the diameter of a tennis court. Now, this is wonderful, because the campaign promise of large telescopes is that is that the bigger the telescope, the smaller the detail that we can see. But it turns out these telescopes, or any telescope on the ground has had a little bit of a challenge living up to this campaign promise. And that is because of the atmosphere. Atmosphere is great for us; it allows us to survive here on Earth. But it's relatively challenging for astronomers who want to look through the atmosphere to astronomical sources. So, to give you a sense of what this is like, it's actually like looking at a pebble at the bottom of a stream. Looking at the pebble on the bottom of the stream, the stream is continuously moving and turbulent, and that makes it very difficult to see the pebble on the bottom of the stream. Very much in the same way, it's very difficult to see astronomical sources, because of the atmosphere that's continuously moving by. So, I've spent a lot of my career working on ways to correct for the atmosphere, to give us a cleaner view. And that buys us about a factor of 20. And I think all of you can agree that if you can figure out how to improve life by a factor of 20, you've probably improved your lifestyle by a lot, say your salary, you'd notice, or your kids, you'd notice. And this animation here shows you one example of the techniques that we use, called adaptive optics. You're seeing an animation that goes between an example of what you would see if you don't use this technique — in other words, just a picture that shows the stars — and the box is centered on the center of the galaxy, where we think the black hole is. So, without this technology you can't see the stars. With this technology all of a sudden you can see it. This technology works by introducing a mirror into the telescope optics system that's continuously changing to counteract what the atmosphere is doing to you. So, it's kind of like very fancy eyeglasses for your telescope. Now, in the next few slides I'm just going to focus on that little square there. So, we're only going to look at the stars inside that small square, although we've looked at all of them. So, I want to see how these things have moved. And over the course of this experiment, these stars have moved a tremendous amount. So, we've been doing this experiment for 15 years, and we see the stars go all the way around. Now, most astronomers have a favorite star, and mine today is a star that's labeled up there, SO-2. Absolutely my favorite star in the world. And that's because it goes around in only 15 years. And to give you a sense of how short that is, the sun takes 200 million years to go around the center of the galaxy. Stars that we knew about before, that were as close to the center of the galaxy as possible, take 500 years. And this one, this one goes around in a human lifetime. That's kind of profound, in a way. But it's the key to this experiment. The orbit tells me how much mass is inside a very small radius. So, next we see a picture here that shows you before this experiment the size to which we could confine the mass of the center of the galaxy. What we knew before is that there was four million times the mass of the sun inside that circle. And as you can see, there was a lot of other stuff inside that circle. You can see a lot of stars. So, there was actually lots of alternatives to the idea that there was a supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy, because you could put a lot of stuff in there. But with this experiment, we've confined that same mass to a much smaller volume that's 10,000 times smaller. And because of that, we've been able to show that there is a supermassive black hole there. To give you a sense of how small that size is, that's the size of our solar system. So, we're cramming four million times the mass of the sun into that small volume. Now, truth in advertising. Right? I have told you my job is to get it down to the Schwarzchild radius. And the truth is, I'm not quite there. But we actually have no alternative today to explaining this concentration of mass. And, in fact, it's the best evidence we have to date for not only existence of a supermassive black hole at the center of our own galaxy, but any in our universe. So, what next? I actually think this is about as good as we're going to do with today's technology, so let's move on with the problem. So, what I want to tell you, very briefly, is a few examples of the excitement of what we can do today at the center of the galaxy, now that we know that there is, or at least we believe, that there is a supermassive black hole there. And the fun phase of this experiment is, while we've tested some of our ideas about the consequences of a supermassive black hole being at the center of our galaxy, almost every single one has been inconsistent with what we actually see. And that's the fun. So, let me give you the two examples. You can ask, ""What do you expect for the old stars, stars that have been around the center of the galaxy for a long time, they've had plenty of time to interact with the black hole."" What you expect there is that old stars should be very clustered around the black hole. You should see a lot of old stars next to that black hole. Likewise, for the young stars, or in contrast, the young stars, they just should not be there. A black hole does not make a kind neighbor to a stellar nursery. To get a star to form, you need a big ball of gas and dust to collapse. And it's a very fragile entity. And what does the big black hole do? It strips that gas cloud apart. It pulls much stronger on one side than the other and the cloud is stripped apart. In fact, we anticipated that star formation shouldn't proceed in that environment. So, you shouldn't see young stars. So, what do we see? Using observations that are not the ones I've shown you today, we can actually figure out which ones are old and which ones are young. The old ones are red. The young ones are blue. And the yellow ones, we don't know yet. So, you can already see the surprise. There is a dearth of old stars. There is an abundance of young stars, so it's the exact opposite of the prediction. So, this is the fun part. And in fact, today, this is what we're trying to figure out, this mystery of how do you get — how do you resolve this contradiction. So, in fact, my graduate students are, at this very moment, today, at the telescope, in Hawaii, making observations to get us hopefully to the next stage, where we can address this question of why are there so many young stars, and so few old stars. To make further progress we really need to look at the orbits of stars that are much further away. To do that we'll probably need much more sophisticated technology than we have today. Because, in truth, while I said we're correcting for the Earth's atmosphere, we actually only correct for half the errors that are introduced. We do this by shooting a laser up into the atmosphere, and what we think we can do is if we shine a few more that we can correct the rest. So this is what we hope to do in the next few years. And on a much longer time scale, what we hope to do is build even larger telescopes, because, remember, bigger is better in astronomy. So, we want to build a 30 meter telescope. And with this telescope we should be able to see stars that are even closer to the center of the galaxy. And we hope to be able to test some of Einstein's theories of general relativity, some ideas in cosmology about how galaxies form. So, we think the future of this experiment is quite exciting. So, in conclusion, I'm going to show you an animation that basically shows you how these orbits have been moving, in three dimensions. And I hope, if nothing else, I've convinced you that, one, we do in fact have a supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy. And this means that these things do exist in our universe, and we have to contend with this, we have to explain how you can get these objects in our physical world. Second, we've been able to look at that interaction of how supermassive black holes interact, and understand, maybe, the role in which they play in shaping what galaxies are, and how they work. And last but not least, none of this would have happened without the advent of the tremendous progress that's been made on the technology front. And we think that this is a field that is moving incredibly fast, and holds a lot in store for the future. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	如何观察那些你看不见的东西？对于那些有兴趣寻找和研究黑洞的人来讲这是一个很基本的问题因为黑洞的引力太大了任何物体，甚至光都无法逃脱所以你用肉眼根本看不见它。 我今天所要说的黑洞非常特殊。我很想知道在我们这个星系是否存在一个巨大的我们称之为“特大”的黑洞½有意思的是这让我们有机会去证实这些奇异的东西是否真正地存在。再有这也为我们了解这些特大质量的黑洞如何与它们周围环境相互作用以及了解它们如何影响它们所处星系的形成和演化提供了很好的机会。 那么，首先我们需要了解什么是黑洞这样，我们才能找出黑洞存在的证据。那么，何为黑洞？呃，从很多方面上讲，黑洞是一个相当简单的物体因为只需三个特征就可以概括它：™质量旋转和电荷今天，我只讲它的质量。从这个角度上来说，黑洞就简单了。但从另外一个角度来讲，它又是相当的复杂复杂到要用很奇特的物理学来描述它，但这又在某种程度上说明了我们对宇宙的物理认识很是有限。 但是，今天，我想让大家这样理解黑洞因为我们要证明它的存在，我门把它当作某个物体来看，但是却没有体积。所以现在我向大家介绍的是质量特别大，但是确切说又像是某个瞬间，因为它没有具体的大小。现在看来些滑稽了。 幸运的是，我们还有具体的大小可供参照的，那就是施瓦西半径。这是以发现这个半径的重要性的人来命名的。这并不是黑洞的实际半径，因为黑洞并无大小。那为什么它如此重要它的重要之处在于告诉我们任何物体都可以变成黑洞。也就是说你， 你的邻居，还有你的手机，甚至这个听众席，都可能变成黑洞，只要你能发现把物体压缩到施瓦西半径的大小。 如果可以的话，很发生什么呢？此时，引力战胜了一切。引力战胜了我们所知的其他所有的力量。而物体本身也必须继续压缩直至变得无限小。这时黑洞就形成了。所以如果我把地球压缩到方糖般大小它就变成黑洞了，因为方糖的大小就是地球的施瓦西半径的大小。 现在，关键就是要解决施瓦西半径到底是多大了。其实在也很简单。该半径取决于物体的质量。物体大施瓦西半径就大物体小相应地该半径也就小。所以，如果我把太阳压缩到和牛津大学一样大，那么太阳就变成黑洞了。 现在我们知道施瓦西半径是什么了。了解这个很重要，它不仅告诉我们何时形成黑洞，同时也告诉我们找寻黑洞存在依据的关键我只要知道两件事。我需要知道物体的质量，我要把它变为黑洞，还有它的施瓦西半径。因为物体的质量决定了它的施瓦西半径，所以实际上我只需要一件事。 所以，我要你们相信黑洞的存在就只要提供一个被压缩到施瓦西半径的物体就可以了。而你们就今天就先保持自己的怀疑态度吧。好，接下来我要讲的绝不是普通的黑洞；我将要介绍的是超质量的黑洞 在此，我先说说什么是普通的黑洞，我们先假定存在这样的黑洞。普通黑洞被认为是大恒星生命的终了状态。因此，当一个恒星消亡而这个恒星的质量又远大于太阳，它将以爆炸结束生命并留下我们见的那些漂亮的超新星残骸在这些残骸之中就会有个小黑洞它的质量大约是太阳质量的三倍。从天文学来看这个黑洞算是小的了。 下面我要讲的是特大黑洞了。据说这些黑洞存在于星系的中心位置。这张图片是哈勃望远镜拍下的，我们可以看到各种形状大小的星系。有大的，也有小的。这里面几乎每个可见物体都是星系。看在左上角有个螺旋形在那个星系里有一千亿的星星，让大家有个大小的意识。在某个星系我们见的光，就是我们现在看的这些星系，是来自恒星的光。我们之所以能看见星系全是靠这些星星的光。 在这其中有不少相对来说奇怪的星系。我习惯称它们为歌剧女王，因为它们太能显摆了。我们叫它们活跃星系核子。因为它们的核子活跃异常，还有中心位置处。所以在中间那块大部分星光都是从那发出的但是我们看见的只能说是光不能说是星光。因为这比星光更活跃。下面例子中跟我们现在看的这些有些相似。这些都是从中间发出来的。如果大家把星系认为是由星星组成的，那这股能量就很难解释了。 人们原来想或许是有特大的黑洞物质才被吸引过去的。我们看不见黑洞本身但是我们却可以把它的这种引力转换为我们所见的光来思考所以有这么一种想法就是特大黑洞或许存在于星系的中心处。但这仅是提供了一种间接论据 但是，这却让我们有了这样一种想法或许不仅是这些歌剧女王有特大黑洞可能所有的星系在中心位置处都有特大黑洞假如这样的话—这就是个普通的星系；我们看见的是星光假设存在这样的特大黑洞那么这个黑洞肯定是在节食因为这才能解释为什么在其它活跃星系核子的那股能量在这却被压制住了。 如果我们想要在星系中心找寻这些隐藏的黑洞那么最好的地方就是在我们银河系寻找了。这张图片是银河系中心的大范围图片我们可以看到星星排成的列队因为我们这个星系结构像扁平的磁盘形状我们处在银河系的中心，所以如果我们看它的中心我们把这个平面看成是银河的平面或者把这条线看成是银河平面 研究我们自己星系的好处呢就是这是我们能找的星系中心最近的例子了因为离我们再近点的星系是我们离银河系中心100倍的距离之外了因而在我们这个星系我们可以把细节看的更清楚在其它地方就不行了一会大家就知道了，能够观察到细节是实验的关键 那么天文学家怎样证明体积小质量大的物质呢今天我得给大家展示一下了我们要用的工具就是观察这些星星是怎样绕黑洞运行的星星绕黑洞的运行轨迹跟行星绕太阳的轨迹差不多是引力使得物体按轨道运行的如果是没有中间的大物体这些物体肯定就飞脱出去了至少是运行速度更慢因为决定它们运行轨迹的是轨道内含的质量大小 这下好了，记得吧我的任务就是说明体积小质量大的情况吧如果我知道物体的运行速度，我就可以知道它的质量了还有如果我知道轨道大小就等于知道了轨道半径现在我想看看那些离星系中心越近越好的星星因为我想在尽小的区域内演示大质量也就是说我想尽可能地看清楚些这就是为什么这次实验我们要用世界上最大的望远镜了 这是凯克实验室，里面有两台望远镜镜片有10米，这大约相当于一个网球场的宽了这下好极了因为我们说过望远镜越大我们就越能看到细节但结果是这些望远镜，或是说所有的望远镜要达到我们的要求还是要战胜一点小困难这就是我们的大气层了大气对我们是有好处的；它使得我们可以在地球上生存这对天文学家们要想透过大气层看到观察物是有些挑战性的 说的更形象一点这就像看水底的小鹅卵石我们要看河底的鹅卵石可是水流还是在不停地流动翻滚这要看清水底的鹅卵石就不容易了同样情况下我们要看清观测物可是大气却在不停地动着，这就有难度了 所以我的大部分工作时间都用在了改造大气层以便可以清晰观察上。这就很难了我想大家都会相信如果我们可以用®©来改善生活的话估计我们早想出很多其它的方法了比如您的薪水，或是孩子 这个动画实际上是我们所用的一种技术，叫做自适应光学从这个动画中我们可以看出如果不用这种技术我们能看到的我们能看到的就是一张有星星的图片图中的聚焦是星系的中心我们认为黑洞就在这里不用这种技术我们就看不见星星用了呢我们就可以看见了技术本身是把一面镜子嵌入望远镜的光学系统这样镜子的变化就可以把大气的变化抵消掉了。这就像是给望远镜装上了魔幻镜片 下面几张幻灯片我主要讲这个小方块我们就只看这个小方块里的星虽然我们早就全看见了我想看看这些东西是怎么动的实验期间这些星星移动了好大的距离这个实验我们做了15年星星一直都在动 大部分天文学家都有自己最喜欢的星我今天要讲的星在那，标为SO-2的那个这是我的最爱这颗星运行到这才15年为了说明这是多短的时间我给大家提供一个数据太阳要运行到银河系的中央大约要20000万年的时间之前我们看的那些星，就是离中心最近的也要用500年这颗只要人的一生的时间就可以了这很重要 这是实验的关键。轨道可以告诉我们小半径内到底藏了多大的质量从这张图片中我们可以看出我们可以把星系中心质量限制到多大的范围内之前我们认为在这个圆圈内有太阳400万倍的质量这个圈内还存在很多其它的物质有很多星星这样看来似乎在星系中心有特大黑洞的猜想外还可以有不少其它的猜测这可以填充的东西不少 但是这次实验中我们已把同质量的物质压缩到了一个相对较小的体积是原来的一万分之一正因为这样，我们才能够证明特大黑洞的存在这有多小呢这就跟我们的太阳系一般大小所以现在我们是把400万倍于太阳质量的物体缩小到这么大小 广告中的真相？之前说过我今天就是要把它缩到施瓦西半径但实际上是我目前还没有办到但是今天我们必须要解释这个质量集合点实际上这是目前为止我们找寻星系中心黑洞存在的最好的依据了甚至是找寻宇宙中任何一个我在想下面讲什么呢这跟我们今天讨论的技术一样下面我们继续讲这个问题 简短地给大家介绍几个例子这会让人很兴奋的在星系的中心，有至少我们这么认为一个特大的黑洞这个实验有趣的是我们已经试验过几个有关黑洞推论的想法当然了是在我们星系的中心处的黑洞几乎每一个跟我们见的是不一样的这就有意思了 再给大家举两个例子大家可能会问，“那些古老的星星呢，就是那些长久以来在星系中心的星”它们跟黑洞可有足够的时间接触你想的是黑洞周围该有成群的星星绕在那实际上那些古老的星星是在黑洞近处的 同样那些年轻的星，或者说，相反，那些年轻的星就不该在那了黑洞对那些恒星群可不怎么友好一个气体和尘埃的大球崩溃后星星就形成了这个实体可是很脆弱的那么黑洞是干什么的呢它能够把那个气体层剥去并且黑洞在一侧的用力比另一侧大很多这样这层云就被剥去了实际上我们原来不认为星星能够在那中环境中形成 所以，你不会看见年轻的星星看看这个这些资料不是我之前给大家讲的其实年老跟年轻的星星我们是可以分开的年老的是红色的年轻的是蓝色的，那些黄色的呢，我们也不知道奇怪的事发生了年老的星星并不多有很多年轻的星星，这跟我们的预测可正好相反 有意思这就是我们今天要解决的神秘怎样来解决这个矛盾我的研究生就在此刻正在夏威夷的望远镜旁记录数据希望我们可以我们可以做进一步的研究那时我们就可以就这个问题为什么有这么多的年轻的星这么少的年老的星讲讲了如果我们要有进展的话，我们需要看更远处星的轨道要是那样的话，我们就需要比今天更精密的技术了 刚才我说我们在矫正地球的大气层，但实际上我们仅仅矫正了一半的不利因素我们打一束激光到大气层我们想如果我们多打几束就可以把余下的也都矫正过来接下来几年中希望我们可以做到更长远一点呢我们希望建造大点的望远镜还记得吗在天文学中越大越好 所以我们想建一个30米的望远镜有了这个望远镜我们就可以离星系中心更近的星了我们还希望可以验证爱因斯坦广义相对论的某些理论宇宙论中有关星系的形成方面的一些想法所以未来的实验还是很有意思的 最后，给大家看一个动画主要是想给大家看这些轨道在三维中是怎样变化的我希望大家如果不相信别的，那么起码今天你该相信在星系的中心有特大黑洞了也就是说宇宙中确实存在这些东西这些我们必须接受，我们必须解释怎样在我们的现实世界中得到这样的东西 其次，我们看了这些特大黑洞之间的相互作用或许我们就明白了这些黑洞在星系的形成中扮演什么样的角色，以及它们是怎样起作用的 最后所有这一切如果没有科技前沿的巨大进步就不会取得我们相信这个领域正以飞快的速度前进并且还有很大的发展空间非常感谢掌声
