Talk	en	zh-tw
andrew_bird_s_one_man_orchestra_of_the_imagination	"Well, there's lots to talk about, but I think I'm just going to play to start off. (Music) ♫ When I wake up ♫ ♫ in the morning ♫ ♫ I pour the coffee ♫ ♫ I read the paper ♫ ♫ And then I slowly ♫ ♫ and so softly ♫ ♫ do the dishes ♫ ♫ So feed the fishes ♫ ♫ You sing me happy birthday ♫ ♫ Like it's gonna be ♫ ♫ your last day ♫ ♫ here on Earth ♫ (Applause) All right. So, I wanted to do something special today. I want to debut a new song that I've been working on in the last five or six months. And there's few things more thrilling than playing a song for the first time in front of an audience, especially when it's half-finished. (Laughter) I'm kind of hoping some conversations here might help me finish it. Because it gets into all sorts of crazy realms. And so this is basically a song about loops, but not the kind of loops that I make up here. They're feedback loops. And in the audio world that's when the microphone gets too close to its sound source, and then it gets in this self-destructive loop that creates a very unpleasant sound. And I'm going to demonstrate for you. (Laughter) I'm not going to hurt you. Don't worry. ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a loop, feedback loop ♫ ♫ This is a — (Feedback) All right. I don't know if that was necessary to demonstrate — (Laughter) — but my point is it's the sound of self-destruction. And I've been thinking about how that applies across a whole spectrum of realms, from, say, the ecological, okay. There seems to be a rule in nature that if you get too close to where you came from, it gets ugly. So like, you can't feed cows their own brains or you get mad cow disease, and inbreeding and incest and, let's see, what's the other one? Biological — there's autoimmune diseases, where the body attacks itself a little too overzealously and destroys the host, or the person. And then — okay, this is where we get to the song — kind of bridges the gap to the emotional. Because although I've used scientific terms in songs, it's very difficult sometimes to make them lyrical. And there's some things you just don't need to have in songs. So I'm trying to bridge this gap between this idea and this melody. And so, I don't know if you've ever had this, but when I close my eyes sometimes and try to sleep, I can't stop thinking about my own eyes. And it's like your eyes start straining to see themselves. That's what it feels like to me. It's not pleasant. I'm sorry if I put that idea in your head. (Laughter) It's impossible, of course, for your eyes to see themselves, but they seem to be trying. So that's getting a little more closer to a personal experience. Or ears being able to hear themselves — it's just impossible. That's the thing. So, I've been working on this song that mentions these things and then also imagines a person who's been so successful at defending themselves from heartbreak that they're left to do the deed themselves, if that's possible. And that's what the song is asking. All right. It doesn't have a name yet. (Music) ♫ Go ahead and congratulate yourself ♫ ♫ Give yourself a hand, the hand is your hand ♫ ♫ And the eye that eyes itself is your eye ♫ ♫ And the ear that hears itself is near ♫ ♫ 'Cause it's your ear, oh oh ♫ ♫ You've done the impossible now ♫ ♫ Took yourself apart ♫ ♫ You made yourself invulnerable ♫ ♫ No one can break your heart ♫ ♫ So you wear it out ♫ ♫ And you wring it out ♫ ♫ And you wear it out ♫ ♫ And you break it yourself ♫ ♫ Breaking your own, break it yourself ♫ ♫ Breaking your own, break it yourself ♫ ♫ Breaking your own ♫ (Applause) Thanks. (Applause) All right. It's kind of cool. Songwriters can sort of get away with murder. You can throw out crazy theories and not have to back it up with data or graphs or research. But, you know, I think reckless curiosity would be what the world needs now, just a little bit. (Applause) I'm going to finish up with a song of mine called ""Weather Systems."" (Music) ♫ Quiet ♫ ♫ Quiet down, she said ♫ ♫ Speak into the back of his head ♫ ♫ On the edge of the bed, I can see your blood flow ♫ ♫ I can see your ♫ ♫ cells grow ♫ ♫ Hold still awhile ♫ ♫ Don't spill the wine ♫ ♫ I can see it all from here ♫ ♫ I can see ♫ ♫ oh, I ♫ ♫ I can see ♫ ♫ weather systems ♫ ♫ of the world ♫ ♫ Weather systems ♫ ♫ of the world ♫ ♫ Some things you say ♫ ♫ are not for sale ♫ ♫ I would hold it where ♫ ♫ our free agents of some substance are ♫ ♫ scared ♫ ♫ Hold still a while ♫ ♫ Don't spill the wine ♫ ♫ I can see it all from here ♫ ♫ I can see ♫ ♫ oh, I ♫ ♫ I can see ♫ ♫ weather systems of the world ♫ ♫ Weather systems ♫ ♫ of the world ♫ Thanks. (Applause)"	嗯，我有許多話想要說，但我想我還是先從演奏開始吧。 （音樂） ♫當我早上♫♫醒來♫♫倒杯咖啡♫♫讀讀報紙♫♫然後我慢慢地♫♫輕輕地♫♫開始做菜♫♫餵餵魚兒♫♫你對我唱著生日快樂♫♫仿佛這是♫♫你在世上的♫♫最後一天♫ （掌聲） 好了。那麼，我今天想做點特別的事。我想演唱一首新歌，這首歌是在過去五個或六個月內創作的。沒有什麼比在觀眾面前第一次演唱一首歌更讓人激動的了，尤其是這首歌是半成品。（笑聲）我希望在這兒能產生些交流也許能幫我完成它。因為它進入了一種瘋狂的境界。基本上，這是首關於迴圈的歌，但不是我在這兒做的這種迴圈。它是回饋迴圈。在音頻的世界裏，當麥克風離它的音源太近時，它會產生自我消音的迴圈，這會產生讓人非常不舒服的聲音。我將向你們展示一下。（笑聲）我不會傷害你們。別擔心。 ♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個迴圈，回饋迴圈♫♫這是個—（回饋） 好了。我不知道是不是還需要演示下去了（笑聲）—但我想說的是聲音的自我消音。 我曾經想過怎樣跨越整個頻域，從，呃，生態的，好吧。自然中似乎有個規則：如果你距離你所來的地方太近，就會變得醜陋。就像，你不能用牛的大腦來餵牛，不然就會出現狂牛症，還有近親結婚和亂倫，讓我們看看，還有什麼？生物學上 — 自身免疫的疾病，就是由於身體自我攻擊有點過於激烈，把宿主或是人給摧毀了。接下來 — 好了，再演奏首歌曲 —有點像情感空白間的聯繫。 因為儘管我在歌中使用了科學名詞，有時還是很難讓它表現得很抒情。而有些東西不需要放在歌中。因此，我試著在這個想法和這首曲子之間建個聯繫。雖然我不知道你們是否有過這種感覺，但有時當我閉上雙眼試著睡著時，我情不自禁的想到我的雙眼。就像你的眼睛開始練習看著自己。這就是我所感覺到的。不是很愉快的感覺。如果我讓你有這種感覺的話，我很抱歉。（笑聲）當然，讓眼睛看自己是不可能的。但它們似乎在做這種嘗試。這是種個人的體驗。或許耳朵也能夠聆聽它們自己—這也是不可能的；就是這樣。那麼，我創作的這首歌中提到了這些事情還有想像，想像一個人成功地抵禦了他們留給自己的難以忍耐的悲傷，如果可能的話。這就是這首歌所追問的。好了。它還沒有名字呢。 （音樂） ♫前進吧，祝賀自己吧♫♫幫自己一把，用自己的手♫♫眼睛，用自己的眼睛♫♫耳朵聽到它自己就在附近♫♫因為它是你的耳朵，哦 哦♫♫你現在做到了本不可能的事♫♫把自己拆開♫♫你讓自己不再受傷害♫♫沒人能讓你傷心♫♫你把它耗盡♫♫你把它扭乾♫♫你把它耗盡♫♫你自己把它擊碎♫♫突破自己，自己擊碎它♫♫突破自己，自己擊碎它♫♫突破自己♫（掌聲） 謝謝。（掌聲）好了。有點酷。歌曲作者可以逃脫謀殺。你能拋開這些瘋狂的理論，不用數據圖表、或研究來支撐它。但，你知道，我想魯莽的好奇心是這個世界現在所需要的，只要一點點。（掌聲）我想以我的一首歌作為結束，歌名是“天氣系統”。 （音樂） ♫安靜♫♫安靜下來，她說♫♫她對著他腦後說♫♫在床的邊緣，我能看到你在流血♫♫我能看到你的♫♫細胞生長♫♫堅持一會兒♫♫別把酒灑了♫♫我從這兒能看到一切♫♫我能看到♫♫哦，我♫♫我能看到♫♫世界的♫♫天氣系統♫♫世界的♫♫天氣系統♫♫你說有些東西♫♫是無價的♫♫我會保留它♫♫我們的一些事物的自由代理人♫♫感到了恐懼♫♫再堅持一會兒♫♫別把酒灑了♫♫我從這兒能看到一切♫♫我能看到♫♫哦，我♫♫我能看到♫♫世界的天氣系統♫♫世界的♫♫天氣系統♫ 謝謝。 （掌聲）
