Talk	en	zh-tw
andy_hobsbawm_says_do_the_green_thing	"Great creativity. In times of need, we need great creativity. Discuss. Great creativity is astonishingly, absurdly, rationally, irrationally powerful. Great creativity can spread tolerance, champion freedom, make education seem like a bright idea. (Laughter) Great creativity can turn a spotlight on deprivation, or show that deprivation ain't necessarily so. Great creativity can make politicians electable, or parties unelectable. It can make war seem like tragedy or farce. Creativity is the meme-maker that puts slogans on our t-shirts and phrases on our lips. It's the pathfinder that shows us a simple road through an impenetrable moral maze. Science is clever, but great creativity is something less knowable, more magical. And now we need that magic. This is a time of need. Our climate is changing quickly, too quickly. And great creativity is needed to do what it does so well: to provoke us to think differently with dramatic creative statements. To tempt us to act differently with delightful creative scraps. Here is one such scrap from an initiative I'm involved in using creativity to inspire people to be greener. (Video) Man: You know, rather than drive today, I'm going to walk. Narrator: And so he walked, and as he walked he saw things. Strange and wonderful things he would not otherwise have seen. A deer with an itchy leg. A flying motorcycle. A father and daughter separated from a bicycle by a mysterious wall. And then he stopped. Walking in front of him was her. The woman who as a child had skipped with him through fields and broken his heart. Sure, she had aged a little. In fact, she had aged a lot. But he felt all his old passion for her return. ""Ford,"" he called softly. For that was her name. ""Don't say another word, Gusty,"" she said, for that was his name. ""I know a tent next to a caravan, exactly 300 yards from here. Let's go there and make love. In the tent."" Ford undressed. She spread one leg, and then the other. Gusty entered her boldly and made love to her rhythmically while she filmed him, because she was a keen amateur pornographer. The earth moved for both of them. And they lived together happily ever after. And all because he decided to walk that day. (Applause) Andy Hobsbawm: We've got the science, we've had the debate. The moral imperative is on the table. Great creativity is needed to take it all, make it simple and sharp. To make it connect. To make it make people want to act. So this is a call, a plea, to the incredibly talented TED community. Let's get creative against climate change. And let's do it soon. Thank you. (Applause)"	偉大的創造力。在有所需要的時候，我們需要偉大的創造力。讓我們討論一下。偉大的創造力具有令人震驚、不可思議、理性、或非理性的力量。偉大的創造力能散播寬容、擁護自由。使教育看起來像個好主意。（笑聲） 偉大的創造力能聚焦於剝奪上，或讓剝奪看起來不一定是那麼一回事。偉大的創造力能讓政客勝選，或讓政黨敗選。能讓戰爭看起來像是悲劇、或是鬧劇。 創造力是迷因 (MEME) 的創造者，將標語放在我們的T恤上並將流行語言掛上我們的唇邊。它是為我們指出簡單道路的開拓者引領我們穿越牢不可破的道德迷宮。科學代表聰慧，但偉大的創造力少了些知識性，多了些魔力。而現在，我們需要這樣的魔力。這正是我們需要的時候。 我們的氣候正在快速的變化、變得太快了。我們需要偉大的創造力，用於其擅長之處，藉著戲劇性的創意陳述激發我們換著方式思考。藉由其歡樂的創意片段誘導我們換個方式試試。這兒就有個這樣的片段，來自於我所參與的一個計畫藉由創意來鼓舞人群更加環保。 （影片）男人：你知道的，今天我不開車，我要走路。 旁白：所以他走了，而當他邁步前行，他看見了許多景物若不是因為走路，他一定不會看見這些新奇美妙的事物。一隻腿癢的鹿。一台飛翔的摩托車。在一對父女與腳踏車間隔開的一道神秘牆垣。然後他停了下來。她正走在他前面。在孩提時期，他與她躍過無數原野且使他心碎。當然，她老了一些。其實，老了不少。但他因為她的歸來，重新燃起了過往的熱情。「福特 (Ford)」他輕聲喊道，那是她的名字。「此時無聲勝有聲，賈斯帝 (Gusty)」她說，賈斯帝是他的名字。我知道在離這三百碼的地方，有個在露營車旁的帳篷。我們去那兒做愛吧！就去帳篷裡。福特輕解羅衫，她張開了一隻玉腿、然後另一隻。賈斯帝放膽進入她的身體，與她有節奏地做著愛她則掌鏡拍著他，因為她是一位狂熱的業餘情色攝影師。地球為了他們而撼動。他們從此以後就過著幸福快樂的日子。這一切都因為他那天決定要走路。（掌聲） 安迪•霍博本：我們有科學（檢證），我們也進行過論辯。道德的規準人盡皆知。我們需要偉大的創意一以貫之，使其簡單、明晰。使其能夠聯繫，使其讓人起而行。所以，這是個呼告、請求，對於極端優異 TED 社群的呼告與請求。讓我們一起發揮創意，抵抗氣候變遷讓我們即刻開始吧！謝謝您！（掌聲）
