Talk	en	zh-tw
angela_patton_a_father_daughter_dance_in_prison	"I was sitting with my girls, and Joy said, ""Dang, I wish he'd get off my back. My daddy, he calls me all the time."" ""Lucky for you he calls at all,"" said Jasmine. ""I haven't heard from my dad in years."" At this moment, I knew the girls needed a way to connect with their fathers. At Camp Diva, my non-profit organization, we have these types of conversations all the time as a way to help girls of African descent prepare for their passage into womanhood. These girls just needed a way to invite their fathers into their lives on their own terms. So I asked the girls, ""How can we help other girls develop healthy relationships with their fathers?"" ""Let's have a dance,"" one girl shouted, and all the girls quickly backed her up. They started dreaming about the decorations, invitations, the dresses they were going to wear, and what their fathers could and could not wear. (Laughter) It was off and running before I could even blink my eyes, but even if I could have slowed down those girls, I wouldn't have, because one thing that I have learned from over a decade of working with girls is that they already know what they need. The wisdom lives inside of them. As long as they have infrastructure, mentorship and resources, they can build what they need, not only to survive, but to thrive. So we had a dance, and girls and their fathers came in multitudes. They were dressed to the nines. They acted sweet. (Laughter) They acted silly. They really enjoyed each other's company. It was a huge success. And the girls decided to make it an annual event. So as the seasons changed, and it was time to plan the dance again, one girl named Brianna spoke up, and she said, ""My dad can't come to the dance, and this whole thing is making me sad."" ""Why not?"" the girls asked. ""Because he's in jail,"" she bravely admitted. ""Well, can he just get out for a day?"" one of the girls asked. (Laughter) ""And come in shackles? That's worse than not having him here at all."" At this moment, I saw an opportunity for the girls to rise to the occasion and to become their own heroes. So I asked, ""What do you think we should do about this? We want every girl to experience the dance, right?"" So the girls thought for a moment, and one girl suggested, ""Why don't we just take the dance in the jail?"" Most of the girls doubted the possibility of that, and said, ""Are you crazy? Who is going to allow a bunch of little girls, dressed up — "" (Laughter) "" — to come inside a jail and dance with their daddies in Spongebob suits?"" Because that's what they called them. I said, ""Girls, well, well, you never know unless you ask."" So a letter was written to the Richmond City Sheriff, signed collectively by each girl, and I would have to say, he is a very special sheriff. He contacted me immediately and said, whenever there is an opportunity to bring families inside, his doors are always open. Because one thing he did know, that when fathers are connected to their children, it is less likely that they will return. So, 16 inmates and 18 girls were invited. The girls were dressed in their Sunday best, and the fathers traded in their yellow and blue jumpsuits for shirts and ties. They hugged. They shared a full catered meal of chicken and fish. They laughed together. It was beautiful. The fathers and daughters even experienced an opportunity to have a physical connection, something that a lot of them didn't even have for a while. Fathers were in a space where they were able to make their daughters play, and pull out her chair and extend his hand for a dance. Even the guards cried. But after the dance, we all realized that Dad still would be in jail. So we needed to create something that they could take with them. So we brought in Flip cams, and we had them look at the Flip cams and just interview each other — their messages, their thoughts. This was going to be used as a touchstone so when they started to miss each other and feel disconnected, they could reconnect through this image. I'll never forget that one girl looked in her father's eyes with that camera and said, ""Daddy, when you look at me, what do you see?"" Because our daddies are our mirrors that we reflect back on when we decide about what type of man we deserve, and how they see us for the rest of our lives. I know that very well, because I was one of the lucky girls. I have had my father in my life always. He's even here today. (Applause) And that is why it is extremely special for me to make sure that these girls are connected to their fathers, especially those who are separated because of barbed wires and metal doors. We have just created a form for girls who have heavy questions on their heart to be in a position to ask their fathers those questions and given the fathers the freedom to answer. Because we know that the fathers are even leaving with this one thought: What type of woman am I preparing to put in the world? Because a father is locked in does not mean he should be locked out of his daughter's life. (Applause)"	當時我跟組織裡的小女孩們坐在一起喬伊說「我希望他不要再打來煩我」「我爸爸每次都會打給我」 潔絲米說「你還算幸運，他都會打給你」「我好久沒聽到我爸爸的聲音了」 此刻，我知道這些女孩需要有一個管道聯絡她們的父親在Camp Diva，我們的非營利組織我們有持續在做各式對談當作是一種方法，幫助非裔美國女孩為她們即將邁向成年做準備這些女孩只是需要邀請她們的父親進入她們的生活用她們自己的方式 所以我問這些女孩「我們能如何幫助其他女孩跟她們的父親發展出健全的關係？」 一位女孩大聲喊說「大家一起來跳舞」所有女孩都支持她的想法她們開始幻想要如何佈置場地邀請事宜，要穿什麼衣服還有她們的父親可能或可能不會穿的（笑聲）彈指之間，她們就開始討論了即使我能夠讓那些女孩冷靜下來我也不會這麼做因為我學到一件事我跟這群女孩在一起，已經超過十年她們都已經知道自己需要什麼她們本身就擁有這種智慧只要她們有基本概念有人引導，有資源就能構築出她們需要的東西不僅能獨立自主，也能更成功 所以我們辦了一場舞會很多對父女一起來參加活動他們都穿著正式服裝她們的姿勢很可愛(笑聲)他們的動作很笨拙他們非常享受彼此的陪伴活動非常成功這些女孩決定每年都要舉辦這種活動 隨著時間流逝又到該再次籌備舞會的時候了有一名叫布莉安娜的女孩她說「我爸爸不能來參加舞會」「這件事讓我很難過」 「為什麼？」女孩們問 「因為他在監獄服刑」，她勇敢承認 「那他能夠出來一天嗎?」 其中一位女孩問道(笑聲) 「戴著腳鐐來？」「他乾脆不要參加好了」 此刻，我看到一個機會能讓女孩們舉辦這場舞會讓她們為自己作主所以我問說「你們認為我們應該要怎麼做才好？」「我們想讓每個女孩都能參加舞會，對嗎？」 所以這群女孩又想了一下然後有一位女孩建議「為什麼我們不在監獄裡辦舞會呢？」 大多數女孩都質疑這種方法的可行性說「你瘋了嗎？」「誰會讓一群小女孩盛裝打扮進監獄和父親跳舞，父親還穿得像海綿寶寶」因為她們就是這樣說的 我說，「大家冷靜一下」「除非你們去問，否則永遠也不會知道答案」 所以大家寫一封信，寄給里奇蒙市的警長每位女孩都在上面簽名連署我必須說，他是一位很特別的警長他馬上就與我連繫，表示若有機會帶小朋友們進去探視他的大門隨時都會為我們敞開因為他確信一件事父親能與自己小孩建立關係時就表示他們不太可能再走回頭路 所以16名受刑人與18名女孩受到邀請女孩們穿著正式服裝父親們將黃藍相間的工作服換成襯衫和領帶他們相互擁抱他們一起享用有雞有魚的大餐他們一起歡笑景象非常溫馨父親們和女兒們甚至能有肢體接觸的機會他們多數人已經沒有過這種互動有一段時間了父親們會到一個活動空間他們能與女兒互動拉出她的椅子，伸出手邀請女兒跳舞甚至連守衛都哭了 但是舞會結束之後我們都意識到爸爸還在服刑所以我們需要做些東西讓他們能夠帶在身邊所以我們將攝影機帶來讓女孩能拍攝父親互相訪問錄下彼此想傳達的訊息、想法這能夠當作是一種新的嘗試在他們開始思念彼此的時候心情落寞的時候他們就能藉由影像想起當時情景 我絕不會忘記，一名女孩看著她父親的眼睛對著錄影機說「爸爸，你看著我眼睛時，你看到什麼?」因為我們的父親就是我們的榜樣我們會受到他們影響我們在選自己未來另一半的時候還有他們會如何看待我們接下來的人生我非常清楚因為我就是其中一位幸運的女孩在我的一生中我的父親一直都陪伴著我甚至今天他也來到現場 （掌聲） 這就是為什麼這件事對我來說會如此特別確保這些女孩能夠連繫他們的父親特別是那些父親遭到隔離的女孩因為隔著一道刺鐵絲網和金屬門我們只是創造一種方法給女孩她們都有潛藏許久的問題給她們機會問她們父親那些問題同時能讓父親們有自由空間能回答因為我們都知道這些父親甚至都只剩一個想法我的女兒長大會是什麼樣子？就因為一位父親在監獄服刑不表示他應該被排除在他的女兒生活之外 （掌聲）
