Talk	en	zh-tw
angelo_vermeulen_how_to_go_to_space_without_having_to_go_to_space	"I am multidisciplinary. As a scientist, I've been a crew commander for a NASA Mars simulation last year, and as an artist, I create multicultural community art all over the planet. And recently, I've actually been combining both. But let me first talk a little more about that NASA mission. This is the HI-SEAS program. HI-SEAS is a NASA-funded planetary surface analogue on the Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii, and it's a research program that is specifically designed to study the effects of long-term isolation of small crews. I lived in this dome for four months with a crew of six, a very interesting experience, of course. We did all kinds of research. Our main research was actually a food study, but apart from that food study — developing a new food system for astronauts living in deep space — we also did all kinds of other research. We did extra-vehicular activities, as you can see here, wearing mock-up space suits, but we also had our chores and lots of other stuff to do, like questionnaires at the end of every day. Busy, busy work. Now, as you can imagine, it's quite challenging to live with just a small group of people in a small space for a long time. There's all kinds of psychological challenges: how to keep a team together in these circumstances; how to deal with the warping of time you start to sense when you're living in these circumstances; sleep problems that arise; etc. But also we learned a lot. I learned a lot about how individual crew members actually cope with a situation like this; how you can keep a crew productive and happy, for example, giving them a good deal of autonomy is a good trick to do that; and honestly, I learned a lot about leadership, because I was a crew commander. So doing this mission, I really started thinking more deeply about our future in outer space. We will venture into outer space, and we will start inhabiting outer space. I have no doubt about it. It might take 50 years or it might take 500 years, but it's going to happen nevertheless. So I came up with a new art project called Seeker. And the Seeker project is actually challenging communities all over the world to come up with starship prototypes that re-envision human habitation and survival. That's the core of the project. Now, one important thing: This is not a dystopian project. This is not about, ""Oh my God, the world is going wrong and we have to escape because we need another future somewhere else."" No, no. The project is basically inviting people to take a step away from earthbound constraints and, as such, reimagine our future. And it's really helpful, and it works really well, so that's really the important part of what we're doing. Now, in this project, I'm using a cocreation approach, which is a slightly different approach from what you would expect from many artists. I'm essentially dropping a basic idea into a group, into a community, people start gravitating to the idea, and together, we shape  and build the artwork. It's a little bit like termites, really. We just work together, and even, for example, when architects visit what we're doing, sometimes they have a bit of a hard time understanding how we build without a master plan. We always come up with these fantastic large-scale scupltures that actually we can also inhabit. The first version was done in Belgium and Holland. It was built with a team of almost 50 people. This is the second iteration of that same project, but in Slovenia, in a different country, and the new group was like, we're going  to do the architecture differently. So they took away the architecture, they kept the base of the artwork, and they built an entirely new, much more biomorphic architecture on top of that. And that's another crucial part of the project. It's an evolving artwork, evolving architecture. This was the last version that was just presented a few weeks ago in Holland, which was using caravans  as modules to build a starship. We bought some second-hand caravans, cut them open, and reassembled them into a starship. Now, when we're thinking about starships, we're not just approaching it as a technological challenge. We're really looking at it as a combination of three systems: ecology, people and technology. So there's always a strong ecological component in the project. Here you can see aquaponic systems that are actually surrounding the astronauts, so they're constantly in contact with part of the food that they're eating. Now, a very typical thing for this project is that we run our own isolation missions inside these art and design projects. We actually lock ourselves up for multiple days on end, and test what we build. And this is, for example, on the right hand side you can see an isolation mission in the Museum of Modern Art in Ljubljana in Slovenia, where six artists and designers locked themselves up — I was part of that — for four days inside the museum. And, of course, obviously, this is a very performative and very strong experience for all of us. Now, the next version of the project is currently being developed together with Camilo Rodriguez-Beltran, who is also a TED Fellow, in the Atacama Desert in Chile, a magical place. First of all, it's really considered a Mars analogue. It really does look like Mars in certain locations and has been used by NASA to test equipment. And it has a long history of being connected to space through observations of the stars. It's now home to ALMA, the large telescope that's being developed there. But also, it's the driest location on the planet, and that makes it extremely interesting to build our project, because suddenly, sustainability is something we have to explore fully. We have no other option, so I'm very curious to see what's going to happen. Now, a specific thing for this particular version of the project is that I'm very interested to see how we can connect with the local population, the native population. These people have been living there for a very long time and can be considered experts in sustainability, and so I'm very interested to see what we can learn from them, and have an input of indigenous knowledge into space exploration. So we're trying to redefine how we look at our future in outer space by exploring integration, biology, technology and people; by using a cocreation approach; and by using and exploring local traditions and to see how we can learn from the past and integrate that into our deep future. Thank you. (Applause)"	我有多學科背景。身為科學家，去年在美國太空總署我擔任火星模擬小組的隊長，身為藝術家，我在全球創作多文化社群藝術。最近，我將兩者結合。但是首先讓我談一下那個太空總署的任務。這是夏威夷太空探測類比模擬計畫，由太空總署出資，模擬火星行星表面，在夏威夷的冒納羅亞火山區進行，是一項研究計畫，特別設計探討長期隔離對小群隊員的影響。我與六位隊員在這個圓屋裡住了四個月，當然，非常有意思的經歷。我們作了各式各樣的研究。主要的研究其實是食品研究，但是除了食品研究，還要開發一套新的食品系統供住在外太空的太空人使用，我們也作其它各種研究。我們也做艙外活動，正如你們所見，穿著全套的模擬太空裝，但我們也有日常瑣事，以及很多其他事要做，譬如，每天結束時的問答題。工作很繁忙。現在你大概可以想像，與這麼一小撮人長期住在一個小小的空間裡相當具挑戰性。有各式各樣的精神挑戰：在這些環境下要怎麼保持團隊精神；生活在這樣的環境下，你的時間感開始扭曲時要怎麼辦；出現睡眠障礙怎麼辦，等等。但是我們也學到很多。我學到了很多關於實際上每個隊員是如何面對像這樣的情況；如何保持團隊工作高效，又能保持心情愉快，譬如說，讓他們有一定程度的自主權是個不錯的方法；而且老實說，我學到很多領導力方面知識，因為我是隊長。所以在這個項目中，我真的開始更深入思考我們在外太空的未來。我們會冒險進入外太空，我們也會開始住在外太空。我對此一點都不懷疑。這件事可能還要再花50 年甚或 500 年，但是一定會實現。所以我想出了一個新的藝術計畫，叫探索者計劃。探索者計畫其實是要邀請全世界的社群挑戰構造星艦原型，重新構想人類的居處及生存。那就是計畫的核心。有件很重要的事：這不是反烏托邦計畫。這不是那種「天啊！這世界有問題，我們得逃出去，因為我們需要在其他地方找未來。」不，不是這樣。這個計畫其實是邀請大家從地球的框框限制中退一步思考，重新構想我們的未來。這很有幫助，也很有用，因此這是我們行動中最重要的部分。在這個計畫裡，我用共同創作的方法，這與你想像中許多藝術家會選用的創作方式有一點不同。我其實是將一個基本想法分享給一個團體、社群，大家開始受到這個想法的吸引，然後我們一起合作塑造建構藝術作品。這有點像白蟻，真的。我們就是一起合作，舉個例，甚至當建築師來看我們在做什麼的時候，有時候他們也搞不清楚我們沒有設計總圖要怎麼蓋。我們總是想出很棒的大型模型而且我們真的能住在裡面。第一個版本在比利時及荷蘭完成。由一個將近 50 人的團隊建造。這是同一計畫的另一作品，但這次是在斯洛維尼亞，在不同的國家，這個新團隊說，我們要做完全不同的模型。所以他們拆了原來的模型，只留下作品的基座，然後他們在上面做一個全新、更具生物型態的模型。這是計畫的另一重要部分。藝術作品會進化，模型會進化。這個最新版本幾個星期前才在荷蘭發表，以露營拖車為組件造出的星艦。我們買了一些二手露營拖車，切開，重組成一艘星艦。當我們在想如何造星艦時，我們不只把它視為科技上的挑戰。我們把它看成三位一體的結合：生態、人、科技。所以在這項計畫中總是有很強的生態要素。這裡你們看到的是魚菜共生系統，真正與太空人同在，所以他們持續接觸他們所吃的食物。在這個計畫很常見的是，我們在這些藝術設計作品中執行自己的隔離任務。我們會連續好幾天把自己關在裡面，試試我們所造的東西是否合用。舉個例，右手邊的這個就是一個隔離任務，位於斯洛維尼亞的盧比安納現代藝術博物館，六位藝術家及設計家把自己關在那裡，我也是其中之一，在博物館內關四天。當然，顯然這對我們來說是一種非常考驗性能、也是相當強烈的體驗。計畫的下一個版本現在正在研發，與卡密羅·羅德里奎茲貝爾川合作，他也是 TED 研究會員，地點在智利的亞他加馬沙漠，一個神秘的地方。首先，這個地方被認為的確可以模擬火星。某些地方看起來的確很像火星，太空總署也在那裡測試裝備。那裡也因觀星活動有著與太空接觸的悠久歷史。它現在是大型的望遠鏡「阿爾馬」的所在地，「阿爾馬」正在那裡興建。但這也是地球上最乾燥的地方，所以在那裡進行我們的計畫就極有意思了。因為忽然間，我們需要充分探討永續性。我們沒有其它的選擇，所以我很好奇想看會發生什麼事。這個計畫有個很特殊的事項，我很有興趣想看到我們如何與當地居民溝通，也就是原住民族群。他們在那裡住了很久，可說是永續性問題的專家。我很想知道我們能從他們身上學到什麼，將原住民知識注入太空探險中。我們試著重新定義如何看待我們在外太空的未來，通過探索生物、科技及人類的整合；通過共同創造的方法；並通過運用及探索本土傳統方法，來看我們如何從過去學習，並整合貢獻給我們遙遠的未來。謝謝。（掌聲）
