Talk	en	zh-tw
anil_gupta_india_s_hidden_hotbeds_of_invention	"I bring to you a message from tens of thousands of people — in the villages, in the slums, in the hinterland of the country — who have solved problems through their own genius, without any outside help. When our home minister announces a few weeks ago a war on one third of India, about 200 districts that he mentioned were ungovernable, he missed the point. The point that we have been stressing for the last 21 years, the point that people may be economically poor, but they're not poor in the mind. In other words, the minds on the margin are not the marginal minds. That is the message, which we started 31 years ago. And what did it start? Let me just tell you, briefly, my personal journey, which led me to come to this point. In '85, '86, I was in Bangladesh advising the government and the research council there how to help scientists work on the lands, on the fields of the poor people, and how to develop research technologies, which are based on the knowledge of the people. I came back in '86. I had been tremendously invigorated by the knowledge and creativity that I found in that country, which had 60 percent landlessness but amazing creativity. I started looking at my own work: The work that I had done for the previous 10 years, almost every time, had instances of knowledge that people had shared. Now, I was paid in dollars as a consultant, and I looked at my income tax return and tried to ask myself: ""Is there a line in my return, which shows how much of this income has gone to the people whose knowledge has made it possible? Was it because I'm brilliant that I'm getting this reward, or because of the revolution? Is it that I write very well? Is it that I articulate very well? Is it that I analyze the data very well? Is it because I'm a professor, and, therefore, I must be entitled to this reward from society?"" I tried to convince myself that, ""No, no, I have worked for the policy changes. You know, the public policy will become more responsive to the needs of the poor, and, therefore I think it's okay."" But it appeared to me that all these years that I'd been working on exploitation — exploitation by landlords, by moneylenders, by traders — gave me an insight that probably I was also an exploiter, because there was no line in my income tax return which showed this income accrued because of the brilliance of the people — those people who have shared their knowledge and good faith and trust with me — and nothing ever went back to them. So much so, that much of my work till that time was in the English language. The majority of the people from whom I learned didn't know English. So what kind of a contributor was I? I was talking about social justice, and here I was, a professional who was pursuing the most unjust act — of taking knowledge from the people, making them anonymous, getting rent from that knowledge by sharing it and doing consultancy, writing papers and publishing them in the papers, getting invited to the conferences, getting consultancies and whatever have you. So then, a dilemma rose in the mind that, if I'm also an exploiter, then this is not right; life cannot go on like that. And this was a moment of great pain and trauma because I couldn't live with it any longer. So I did a review of ethical dilemma and value conflicts and management research, wrote, read about 100 papers. And I came to the conclusion that while dilemma is unique, dilemma is not unique; the solution had to be unique. And one day — I don't know what happened — while coming back from the office towards home, maybe I saw a honey bee or it occurred to my mind that if I only could be like the honey bee, life would be wonderful. What the honey bee does: it pollinates, takes nectar from the flower, pollinates another flower, cross-pollinates. And when it takes the nectar, the flowers don't feel shortchanged. In fact, they invite the honey bees through their colors, and the bees don't keep all the honey for themselves. These are the three guiding principles of the Honey Bee Network: that whenever we learn something from people it must be shared with them in their language. They must not remain anonymous. And I must tell you that after 20 years, I have not made one percent of change in the professional practice of this art. That is a great tragedy — which I'm carrying still with me and I hope that all of you will carry this with you — that the profession still legitimizes publication of knowledge of people without attributing them by making them anonymous. The research guidelines of U.S. National Academy of Sciences or Research Councils of the U.K. or of Indian Councils of Science Research do not require that whatever you learn from people, you must share back with them. We are talking about an accountable society, a society that is fair and just, and we don't even do justice in the knowledge market. And India wants to be a knowledge society. How will it be a knowledge society? So, obviously, you cannot have two principles of justice, one for yourself and one for others. It must be the same. You cannot discriminate. You cannot be in favor of your own values, which are at a distance from the values that you espouse. So, fairness to one and to the other is not divisible. Look at this picture. Can you tell me where has it been taken from, and what is it meant for? Anybody? I'm a professor; I must quiz you. (Laughter) Anybody? Any guess at all? Pardon? (Audience Member: Rajasthan.) Anil Gupta: But what has it been used for? What has it been used for? (Murmuring) Pardon? You know, you're so right. We must give him a hand, because this man knows how insensitive our government is. Look at this. This is the site of the government of India. It invites tourists to see the shame of our country. I'm so sorry to say that. Is this a beautiful picture or is it a terrible picture? It depends upon how you look at the life of the people. If this woman has to carry water on her head for miles and miles and miles, you cannot be celebrating that. We should be doing something about it. And let me tell you, with all the science and technology at our command, millions of women still carry water on their heads. And we do not ask this question. You must have taken tea in the morning. Think for a minute. The leaves of the tea, plucked from the bushes; you know what the action is? The action is: The lady picks up a few leaves, puts them in the basket on the backside. Just do it 10 times; you will realize the pain in this shoulder. And she does it a few thousand times every day. The rice that you ate in the lunch, and you will eat today, is transplanted by women bending in a very awkward posture, millions of them, every season, in the paddy season, when they transplant paddy with their feet in the water. And feet in the water will develop fungus, infections, and that infection pains because then other insects bite that point. And every year, 99.9 percent of the paddy is transplanted manually. No machines have been developed. So the silence of scientists, of technologists, of public policy makers, of the change agent, drew our attention that this is not on, this is not on; this is not the way society will work. This is not what our parliament would do. You know, we have a program for employment: One hundred, 250 million people have to be given jobs for 100 days by this great country. Doing what? Breaking stones, digging earth. So we asked a question to the parliament: Do poor have heads? Do poor have legs, mouth and hands, but no head? So Honey Bee Network builds upon the resource in which poor people are rich. And what has happened? An anonymous, faceless, nameless person gets in contact with the network, and then gets an identity. This is what Honey Bee Network is about. And this network grew voluntarily, continues to be voluntary, and has tried to map the minds of millions of people of our country and other parts of the world who are creative. They could be creative in terms of education, they may be creative in terms of culture, they may be creative in terms of institutions; but a lot of our work is in the field of technological creativity, the innovations, either in terms of contemporary innovations, or in terms of traditional knowledge. And it all begins with curiosity. It all begins with curiosity. This person, whom we met — and you will see it on the website, www.sristi.org — this tribal person, he had a wish. And he said, ""If my wish gets fulfilled"" — somebody was sick and he had to monitor — ""God, please cure him. And if you cure him, I will get my wall painted."" And this is what he got painted. Somebody was talking yesterday about Maslowian hierarchy. There could be nothing more wrong than the Maslowian model of hierarchy of needs because the poorest people in this country can get enlightenment. Kabir, Rahim, all the great Sufi saints, they were all poor people, and they had a great reason. (Applause) Please do not ever think that only after meeting your physiological needs and other needs can you be thinking about your spiritual needs or your enlightenment. Any person anywhere is capable of rising to that highest point of attainment, only by the resolve that they have in their mind that they must achieve something. Look at this. We saw it in Shodh Yatra. Every six months we walk in different parts of the country. I've walked about 4,000 kilometers in the last 12 years. So on the wayside we found these dung cakes, which are used as a fuel. Now, this lady, on the wall of the dung cake heap, has made a painting. That's the only space she could express her creativity. And she's so marvelous. Look at this lady, Ram Timari Devi, on a grain bin. In Champaran, we had a Shodh Yatra and we were walking in the land where Gandhiji went to hear about the tragedy, pain of indigo growers. Bhabi Mahato in Purulia and Bankura. Look at what she has done. The whole wall is her canvas. She's sitting there with a broom. Is she an artisan or an artist? Obviously she's an artist; she's a creative person. If we can create markets for these artists, we will not have to employ them for digging earth and breaking stones. They will be paid for what they are good at, not what they're bad at. (Applause) Look at what Rojadeen has done. In Motihari in Champaran, there are a lot of people who sell tea on the shack and, obviously, there's a limited market for tea. Every morning you have tea, as well as coffee. So he thought, why don't I convert a pressure cooker into a coffee machine? So this is a coffee machine. Just takes a few hundred rupees. People bring their own cooker, he attaches a valve and a steam pipe, and now he gives you espresso coffee. (Laughter) Now, this is a real, affordable coffee percolator that works on gas. (Applause) Look at what Sheikh Jahangir has done. A lot of poor people do not have enough grains to get ground. So this fellow is bringing a flour-grinding machine on a two-wheeler. If you have 500 grams, 1000, one kilogram, he will grind it for it for you; the flourmill will not grind such a small quantity. Please understand the problem of poor people. They have needs which have to be met efficiently in terms of energy, in terms of cost, in terms of quality. They don't want second-standard, second-quality outputs. But to be able to give them high-quality output you need to adapt technology to their needs. And that is what Sheikh Jahangir did. But that's not enough, what he did. Look at what he did here. If you have clothes, and you don't have enough time to wash them, he brought a washing machine to your doorstep, mounted on a two-wheeler. So here's a model where a two-wheeler washing machine ... He is washing your clothes and drying them at your doorstep. (Applause) You bring your water, you bring your soap, I wash the clothes for you. Charge 50 paisa, one rupee for you per lot, and a new business model can emerge. Now, what we need is, we need people who will be able to scale them up. Look at this. It looks like a beautiful photograph. But you know what it is? Can anybody guess what it is? Somebody from India would know, of course. It's a tawa. It's a hot plate made of clay. Now, what is the beauty in it? When you have a non-stick pan, it costs about, maybe, 250 rupees, five dollars, six dollars. This is less than a dollar and this is non-stick; it is coated with one of these food-grade materials. And the best part is that, while you use a costly non-stick pan, you eat the so-called Teflon or Teflon-like material because after some time the stuff disappears. Where has it gone? It has gone in your stomach. It was not meant for that. (Laughter) You know? But here in this clay hot plate, it will never go into your stomach. So it is better, it is safer; it is affordable, it is energy-efficient. In other words, solutions by the poor people need not be cheaper, need not be, so-called, jugaad, need not be some kind of makeshift arrangement. They have to be better, they have to be more efficient, they have to be affordable. And that is what Mansukh Bhai Prajapati has done. He has designed this plate with a handle. And now with one dollar, you can afford a better alternative than the people market is offering you. This lady, she developed a herbal pesticide formulation. We filed the patent for her, the National Innovation Foundation. And who knows? Somebody will license this technology and develop marketable products, and she would get revenue. Now, let me mention one thing: I think we need a polycentric model of development, where a large number of initiatives in different parts of the country, in different parts of the world, would solve the needs of locality in a very efficient and adaptive manner. Higher the local fit, greater is the chance of scaling up. In the scaling up, there's an inherent inadequacy to match the needs of the local people, point by point, with the supply that you're making. So why are people willing to adjust with that mismatch? Things can scale up, and they have scaled up. For example, cell phones: We have 400 million cellphones in this country. Now, it is possible that I use only two buttons on the cellphone, only three options on the cellphone. It has 300 options, I'm paying for 300; I'm using only three but I'm willing to live with it, therefore it is scaling up. But if I had to get a match to match, obviously, I would need a different design of a cellphone. So what we're saying is that scalability should not become an enemy of sustainability. There must be a place in the world for solutions that are only relevant for a locality, and yet, one can be able to fund them. One of the greatest studies that we've been finding is that many times investors would ask this question — ""What is a scalable model?"" — as if the need of a community, which is only located in a space and time and has those needs only located in those places, has no legitimate right to get them for free because it's not part of a larger scale. So either you sub-optimize your needs to a larger scale or else you remain out. Now, the eminent model, the long-tail model tells you that small sales of a large number of books, for example, having only a few copies sold can still be a viable model. And we must find a mechanism where people will pool in the portfolio, will invest in the portfolio, where different innovations will go to a small number of people in their localities, and yet, the overall platform of the model will become viable. Look at what he is doing. Saidullah Sahib is an amazing man. At the age of 70, he is linking up something very creative. (Music) Saidullah Sahib: I couldn't wait for the boat. I had to meet my love. My desperation made me an innovator. Even love needs help from technology. Innovation is the light of my wife, Noor. New inventions are the passion of my life. My technology. (Applause) AG: Saidulluh Sahib is in Motihari, again in Champaran. Wonderful human being, but he stills sells, at this age, honey on a cycle to earn his livelihood, because we haven't been able to convince the water park people, the lake people, in [unclear] operations. And we have not been able to convince the fire brigade people in Mumbai — where there was a flood a few years ago and people had to walk 20 kilometers, wading in the water — that, look, you should have this cycle in your fire brigade office because you can then go to those lanes where your buses will not go, where your transport will not go. So we have not yet cracked the problem of making it available as a rescue device, as a vending device during the floods in eastern India, when you have to deliver things to people in different islands where they're marooned. But the idea has a merit. The idea has a merit. What has Appachan done? Appachan, unfortunately, is no more, but he has left behind a message. A very powerful message Appachan: I watch the world wake up every day. (Music) It's not that a coconut fell on my head, and I came upon this idea. With no money to fund my studies, I scaled new heights. Now, they call me the local Spiderman. My technology. (Applause) AG: Many of you might not realize and believe that we have sold this product internationally — what I call a G2G model, grassroots to global. And a professor in the University of Massachusetts, in the zoology department, bought this climber because she wanted to study the insect diversity of the top of the tree canopy. And this device makes it possible for her to take samples from a larger number of palms, rather than only a few, because otherwise she had to make a big platform and then climb her [unclear] would climb on that. So, you know, we are advancing the frontiers of science. Remya Jose has developed ... you can go to the YouTube and find India Innovates and then you will find these videos. Innovation by her when she was in class 10th: a washing machine-cum-exercising machine. Mr. Kharai who is a physically challenged person, one and a half foot height, only. But he has modified a two-wheeler so that he can get autonomy and freedom and flexibility. This innovation is from the slums of Rio. And this person, Mr. Ubirajara. We were talking about, my friends in Brazil, how we scale up this model in China and Brazil. And we have a very vibrant network in China, particularly, but also emerging in Brazil and other parts of the world. This stand on the front wheel, you will not find on any cycle. India and China have the largest number of cycles. But this innovation emerged in Brazil. The point is, none of us should be parochial, none of us should be so nationalistic to believe that all good ideas will come only from our country. No, we have to have the humility to learn from knowledge of economically poor people, wherever they are. And look at this whole range of cycle-based innovations: cycle that's a sprayer, cycle that generates energy from the shocks on the road. I can't change the condition of the road, but I can make the cycle run faster. That is what Kanak Das has done. And in South Africa, we had taken our innovators, and many of us had gone there share with the colleagues in South Africa as to how innovation can become a means of liberation from the drudgery that people have. And this is a donkey cart which they modified. There's an axle here, of 30, 40 kg, serving no purpose. Remove it, the cart needs one donkey less. This is in China. This girl needed a breathing apparatus. These three people in the village sat down and decided to think, ""How do we elongate the life of this girl of our village?"" They were not related to her, but they tried to find out, ""How can we use ... "" They used a cycle, they put together a breathing apparatus. And this breathing apparatus now saved the life, and she's very welcome. There's a whole range of innovations that we have. A car, which runs on compressed air with six paisa per kilometer. Assam, Kanak Gogoi. And you would not find this car in U.S. or Europe, but this is available in India. Now, this lady, she used to do the winding of the yarn for Pochampally Saree. In one day, 18,000 times, she had to do this winding to generate two sarees. This is what her son has done after seven years of struggle. She said, ""Change your profession."" He said, ""I can't. This is the only thing I know, but I'll invent a machine, which will solve your problem."" And this is what he did, a sewing machine in Uttar Pradesh. So, this is what SRISTI is saying: ""Give me a place to stand, and I will move the world."" I will just tell you that we are also doing a competition among children for creativity, a whole range of things. We have sold things all over the world, from Ethiopia to Turkey to U.S. to wherever. Products have gone to the market, a few. These are the people whose knowledge made this Herbavate cream for eczema possible. And here, a company which licensed this herbal pesticide put a photograph of the innovator on the packing so that every time a user uses it, it asks the user, ""You can also be an innovator. If you have an idea, send it back to us."" So, creativity counts, knowledge matters, innovations transform, incentives inspire. And incentives: not just material, but also non-material incentives. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我為你們帶來一個信息，它來自數以萬計生活在，一個國家的內陸的村落和貧民窟的人們，他們已經利用他們的天才解決了問題，沒有依靠任何外來的幫助。當我們的內政部長在幾個星期之前宣布一場在三分之一印度的戰爭，在他提到的大約 200 個地區，是無法管治的，他忽略了一點而一個恰恰是我們堅持了21 年的理念這就是人們可能是經濟上很貧乏，但他們並不缺乏想法換言之在邊綠的想法並不是不足的想法。我們31年前就開始傳播這個信息那是怎么開始的呢 ? 讓我簡單的告訢你，我個人的經歷，怎樣引領我到這裡。85 年至 86 年，我在孟加拉為政府及研究理事會提供意見怎樣在貧窮的人艮的土地上去幫助科學研究與及如何發展基於當地人們的智識的研究技術。我在 86 年回來。我非常的振奮因為我看到了那個有 60% 人沒有土地的國家中的百姓的智識及創意。那是非常驚人的創意。我開始審視我自己的工作那些我在過去之前10 年的工作，幾乎每一次，也有部份的智識是由別人分享的。 現在我作為一個收費的顧問，當我看到我的報稅表我嘗試問我自己，在我的報稅表裡，""當中是否有一行顥示有多少的收入給了那些擁有令這一切發生的知識的人們 ?""是否因為我是非常的傑出所以我可以得到這些回報，或是?是否因為我寫得非常的棒?是否因為我表達得非常的棒?是否因為我分析數據做得非常的棒?是否因為我是教授，所以，我一定有資格在社會上得到這些回報 ?我嘗試說服自已，""不是，不是，我會投票改革政策。要知道，公共政策會變得更能回應貧困的人的需要，因此，我想這是沒有問題的。""但是，對我而言這些年來，我一直致力於研究剝削行為，地主的剝削貸款者，以及商人的剝削這給我一個深刻的理解可能我也是一個剝削者，因為在我的報稅表中沒有一行顯示該收入是因為人們卓越的才智而產生，那些人們曾經分享他們的知識，給予我真誠及信任，同時間，並沒有任何東西回到他們那裡。另外，直至當時，我大部份的工作都是用英語的。 而大部份我學習的人都不認識英語。那到底我算是一個怎樣的貢獻者呢 ?我曾一直在講社會公義同時在這裡我亦是一個専業人士一個從事最不公義的行為，從人們身上奪取知識，令他們匿名，用這些知識去得到身份地位分享這些知識，去做顧問，撰寫報告，發表這些知識到學術報告，接受會議的邀請，得到顧問及其他一切的工作。然後，一個兩難的問題在我的腦海出現，假如我也是一個剝削者，這是不對的;生命不可以就這樣下去。這是一個非常痛苦和創傷的時刻，因為我不可以再這樣生活下去。因此，我做了一次審查，我思考 [不清楚地] 研究，撰寫，閱讀大約 100 份報告，然後，我得到結論，當難題是獨一無二，難題並不是獨一無二，只是解決方法是獨一無二。 有一日，我不知道發生甚麼事，當由辦公室回到家中，或者我看到一隻蜜蜂，或者看上來，假如我可以像蜜蜂一樣，生活就可以得美滿。蜜蜂到底做些甚麼，它傳播花粉，從花中採蜜，為另外一朶花授粉，交叉授粉，當牠採蜜時，花並沒有感覺到被尅扣。事實上，她們用顏色吸引蜜蜂。同時蜜蜂不會將所有花蜜留給自己。在蜜蜂網絡中，有這三個原則 -每當我們從其他人學習就必須用他們自己的語言去分享。他們不能保持匿名， 我必須要告訢你，在 20 年後，我沒有令這行為改變百分之一。這是一個我一直背負着的重大悲劇，而我亦希望你們所有人會同時背負着這個，一班專業者仍然用匿名的方法去發表其他人的知識而沒有歸功於他們，並將之合法化。美國國家科學院或英國研究理事會或印度科學研究會議的研究指引中都沒有要求，無論你從其他人身上學到甚麼，你都一定要回饋他們。我們在討論一個負責任的社會，一個公平，公正的社會。同時我們連知識市場都不求公義。同時印度想要成為一個有知識的社會。這怎麼會成為一個有知識的社會 ?因此，明顯地，你不可以有兩個公義的準則，一個自己的，一個他人的。這必須要一致的。你不可以有差別地對待。你不可以偏坦自己的價值，而遠離你擁護的價值。因此，公平對於一個人，以致對其他人是不可分割的。 看看這幅圖。你可否告訢我這是從那裡拍到的，與及，它當中的意思嗎 ? 有沒有人 ?我是一個教授，我必須考考你。有沒有人? 有沒有任何推測 ?請重覆。(觀眾: 拉賈斯坦)阿尼爾古普塔: 但它有何用途? 它曾用作甚麼 ?(絲絲細語)請重覆。你知道，你是正確的，我們一定要為他拍掌。因為這個人知道我們的政府是怎樣的感覺遲鈍。看看這裡。這是印度政府的地點。它邀請遊客去看我們國家的恥辱。我很抱歉地說。這是一個很美麗的圖片 -或是一個很可佈的圖片 ?這決定於你怎樣看待人們的生活。假如這女人要用頭去担水很遠，很遠，很遠，你不能為此慶祝。我們應該做點事情。待我告訢你，用我們可以動用的所有科學及技術，數以百萬計的女人仍然要用她們的頭去担水。同時我們沒有發問這個問題。 你一定在早上有喝過菜。用一分鐘想想。茶的葉子，從灌木叢中採摘。你知道那是怎樣的動作嗎? 那動作是:那女士採摘幾塊葉子，放到她們背後的籃子中。只要重覆十次，你會發現肩膀的痛苦。她每天做了幾萬次。你們午餐吃的米飯，今天你們會吃的，是由一班女人彎曲成一個非常尷尬的姿勢移植的，幾百萬人，每個季節，在稻田的季節，當她們用雙腳站在水中移植稻田。腳浸在水中會生長真菌，感染。這感染是痛苦的因為其他昆蟲會咬那點。每一年，99.9 % 的稻田是人工移植的。沒有機器開發過。 科學家，技術人員，公共政黨制定者，變革者的沈默，令我們留意到，這不是，這不是，這不是社會會成功的方法。這不是我們的議會會做的，你知道。我們有一個就業計劃。一億，二億五千萬的人會由這個偉大的國家在 100 天內提供工作。做甚麼? 爆石，掘地。所以我們問議會一個問題，那些貧困的人有頭腦嗎?貧困的人有腳、口和手，但他們沒有頭腦嗎? 所以 Honey Bee Network 建基於貧困的人們富有的資源。之後，發生甚麼事?匿名的，無面孔的，無名的人與網絡取得聯繫，然後得到一個身份。這是 Honey Bee Network （小蜜蜂网絡）所做的事。然而這個網絡自願地成長，繼續保持自願，並嘗試為幾百萬我們國家，以及世界其他地方的有創意的人的思維繪成地圖。他們可以是在教育方面有創意;他們可以是在文化方面有創意;他們可以是在機構方面有創意;但大部份我們的工作是在科技上的有創意的，這些發明，不論在當代創新方面，或在傳統知識方面。這都在好奇心開始。這都在好奇心開始。 這個我們遇到的人，你將會在網站上看到的，Soshidoto Arjii 這部落的人，他有一個希望。他說，""假如我的希望可以逹到"" ...有個他要照顧的人生病了...""神，請治癒他。假如你治癒他，我會在我的牆畫畫。＂而這就是他所畫的。有人昨天討論馬斯洛的需求層次理論。沒有比馬斯洛的需求層次理論更錯誤的，因為在這國家裡貧困的人可以得到啟蒙。Kalwi ，拉希姆，所有偉大的蘇非聖人，他們都是很貧困的人，同時他們都有一個很偉大的原因。請不要以為只有滿足到的生理上及其他的需要你才可以去想有關精神上開示的需要。任何人在任何地方都可以去提升到最高的成就，只要立志，在他們腦海中有一定要達到的一些東西。 看這個。我們看見 [不清楚] 每六個月我們行過這國家的不同部份。在過去 12 年我行了大約 4000 公里。在路邊，我們發現那些糞餅，用作燃料的糞餅。你知道，這女士，在糞餅堆的牆上畫了一幅畫。這是她唯一可以發揮創意的空間。而她是如此的了不起。看看這女士拉姆蒂馬里黛維，在堅巴蘭的穀倉上，我們有一個 [不清楚]當我們走到在普魯利亞班古拉甘地去過的地方去聆聽有關靛青種植者哈比馬哈托的悲劇、痛苦。看看她做過甚麼。整幅牆是她的畫布。她與掃帚正在那裡。她是一個工匠或是一個藝術家?很明顯的，她是一個藝術家; 她是一個有創意的人。假如我們可以為這些藝術家創造市場，我們不須要去雇用他們去掘地及爆石。他們可以利用擅長的去謀生，而不是他們不擅長的。(掌聲) 看看 Rojadeen 在做了甚麼。在查姆帕蘭的莫提哈里，這裡有很多的人在木屋出售茶葉，同時地，很明顯的，那裡是一個很局限的市場，每天早上，你會喝茶以及咖啡。所以他想，何不我將一個壓力煲變成一個咖啡機。這就是一個只需數百盧比的咖啡機。人們帶來他們的壓力煲，他為此加上價值以及一個蒸汽管，就這樣，他給你特濃咖啡。現在，這是真實的，可負擔的利用氣體的咖啡過濾器。(掌聲)看看謝赫賈漢吉爾做了甚麼。很多貧困的人不會擁有足夠的穀物去獲得土地。所以這傢伙帶來一部放在雙輪車上，磨麵粉的機器。假如你有 500 克， 1000 克， 1 公斤，他會為你磨碎，磨麵粉的人不會磨這麼少的份量。 請了解窮人的問題。他們的需要要處理得有效率地從能源，成本及質量各方面看。他們不想要次一等的標準，次一等的質量的成品。但要能夠給予他們高質量的成品你需要令科技遷就他們的需要。這是謝赫賈漢吉爾曾經做過的。但他做的並這不足夠。看看他在這裡做的。假如你有衣服，而你沒有足夠的時間去洗，他會帶來一部洗衣機放到一部雙輪車上面，去到你家門前。這是一個模式當一部雙輪車洗衣機 ....他正在洗你的衣服，並在你家門前弄乾。(掌聲)你帶來你的水，你的肥皂。我為你洗衣服，每一份換取 50 佩薩 1 盧比這是新出現的商業模式。現在我們需要的是，我們需要人們i能夠擴展他們。 看看這裡。這看似很美麗的照片。但你知道這是甚麼嗎? 有沒有人猜一下這是甚麼?在印度有人會知道，當然。這是 tawa 。這是一個用陶泥做的熱盆。現在，它當中有甚麼是美麗的?當你有一個不粘鍋，它只需，可能，250 盧比，5 元，6元。這是少於1元。這個是不粘的。這個塗層用了其中一種食品級材料。而當中最好的部份是，每當你用一個昂貴的不粘鍋，你會連特氟隆或類似特氟隆的物料一同進食。因為在一段時間之後，有些東西消失了，它去了那裡?它去了你的胃。它不應該這樣子的。你知道，但這裡，在這個陶泥熱盆，它永不會去到你的胃，因此它是較好的，它是較安全的;它是負擔得起的，它是有能源效益的。換句話說，貧困的人的解決方案需要的不一定是低俗的，不需要是，所謂的 [不清楚] 不必有一些臨時的安排。 它們要更好的，它們要有效率的，它們是要負擔得起的。這是 Mansukh Bhai Prajapati 曾經做過的。他設計了這個刀片和手柄。現在只需要 1 元，你可以買得起更好的選擇比起 [不清楚] 市場提供給你的。這女士，她開發了硬件的農藥製劑。得到一個 .... 我們為她申請了專利，國家創新基金又有誰知道，有人將授權這種技術和開發可銷售的產品，她將獲得收入。現在，讓我提一點。我認為我們需要一個多中心的發展模式，當國家不同的地區的很多的提議，在世界不同地區，解決當地的需要用一個非常高效率和適應性的方式。地方越合適，擴大的機會越大。 當擴大中有一個內在的不足之處以逐點配合當地人民的需要與供應。那人們為何願意為這些不協調去調整呢?事情可以擴大規模，他們已經擴大了。例如，手提電話: 我們在這個國家有 4 億部手提電話。現在，它有可能，我只用了在手機上的兩個按鈕，只用了在手機上的 3 個選擇。它有 300 ;我付了 300 ;我只用 3，但我願意去配合，因此它是可擴展性。但如果我必須得到一個匹配對應一個匹配，顯然，我需要一個不同設計的手機。那麼，我們要說的是，可擴展性不應該成為可持續性的敵人。世界必須有一個地方給予只與當地相關的解決方案，然而，人們能夠同時提供資金。 我們已經發現的其中一個最偉大的研究是很多時候投資者會問這樣的問題 -“什麼是可擴展的模式？” -如果一個社會的需要，只有存在在一個空間和時間而那些需求，只存在那些地方，沒有合法權利免費取得，因為他們不屬於一個更大的規模。因此，若不你次優化你的需要去到一個較大的規模若不你繼續到外面去。現在，著名的長尾模型，告訴你，小型銷售大量的書籍，例如，只有數份拷貝出售，依然是一個可行的模式。同時，我們必須找到一種機制，使人們可以將集中在組合中，我們將投資在這組合中，當不同的新發明會去到當地的一少撮人，不單止這樣，[不清楚] 在這個模式會變得可行的。 看看他正在做甚麼。Saidullahsahib 是一個了不起的人。®在 70 歲時，他正連接很有創意的東西。 (音樂) Saidullahsahib:我等不及船。我要見我的愛人。我的絕望令我成為了一個革新者。即使愛情，亦需要技術的幫助。創新是我妻子努爾的權利。新的發明是我生命的激情。我的科技。 (掌聲) 阿尼爾古普塔: Saidulluhsahib 是在莫提哈里堅巴蘭 。很完美的人，但他仍然銷售，在這個年紀，在單車上的蜂蜜，以賺取自己的生活因為我們沒有能夠說服人的水上公園，在湖邊的人，在 [不清楚] 公司。此外，我們還未能說服消防隊的人在孟買，那裡幾年前有一個洪水，人們不得不步行20公里，在水中涉水，你們看，你們應該有這種單車，在你們消防隊的辦公室，因為你可以去那些小巷在你的巴士不能去，在你的運輸工具不會去的地方。因此，我們還沒有更正那問題使它可以作為救援設備，作為一個在印度東部洪水時的售貨設備，當你要給人們提供東西當他們被困在不同的島嶼時。但想法有其優點，想法有一個優點。 Appachan做了什麼？ Appachan 是，不幸地，沒有更多的，但他留下了一個訊息，一個非常強而有力的信息 Appachan：我每天起床看這世界。 (音樂) 這不是一個椰子落在我頭上令我得到這個想法。由於沒有錢資助我的學業，我勇攀高峰。現在，他們叫我本地蜘蛛。我的技術。 (掌聲) 阿尼爾古普塔: 你們當中很多人可能沒有體會和相信我們在國際上已售出這個產品 -我所說的 G2G 的模式，基層到全球。而馬薩諸塞大學生態系的一個教授，買了這個登山工具，因為她想去研究在樹冠頂部的昆蟲的多樣。而這個裝置使她可以得到更大量的棕櫚樹樣本而不是只有少數，否則，她必須做出一個 [不明]後 [不清楚] 爬了。所以，你知道，我們是立刻站在科學的前沿。 Remya Jose 曾經開發 —你可以到 Youtube 尋找印度的創新，然後你會發現這些影片。創新的她，當她在第10類：洗衣機兼行使機。克賴先生是一位殘障人士，只有一個半英尺的高度。但他曾修改一兩三輪車，讓他能得到自主權與自由和靈活性。這一創新是從里奧的貧民窟裡。而這個人，烏比拉雅拉先生，我們在談論，我在巴西的朋友，如何才能在中國和巴西擴大這一模式。尤其是我們在中國有一個非常活躍的網絡，但也在巴西和世界其他地區湧現。這個站在前輪，你不會找到任何單車。印度和中國擁有最大數量的單車。但這種創新出現在巴西。 問題是，我們都不應該狹隘，我們當中不應該相信這樣的民族主義所有好的構想都來至我們的國家。不，我們必須有謙卑地學習來至經濟落後的人們的知識，無論他們在哪裡。看看整個以單車為基礎的創新系列:單車噴霧器，從路上的衝擊產生能量的單車。我不能改變道路的狀況;我可以令單車走得更快。這是 [不清楚] 曾經完成的。而在南非，我們採取了我們的創新者，和我們很多人去了那裡與南非的同事分享如何創新才能成為解放人們辛苦的手段。這是他們修改了的驢車。這裡有一個 30，40公斤 的軸，沒有任何作用。除去它，驢車需要少一隻驢。 這是在中國。這個女孩需要一個呼吸器具。這 3人在村裡坐下來決定說，“我們如何延長這個我們村那女孩的生命？”他們與她非親非故，但他們試圖找出答案，我們如何才能使用洗衣機的管道，他們用一個單車，他們組成了一個呼吸器具。這呼吸器現在拯救了生命，而她是 [不清楚] 我們已經有了整個系列的創新。一輛汽車，它用了壓縮空氣運行用六 [不清楚] 每公里。阿薩姆，卡納克戈戈伊。而你不會在美國或歐洲找到這車，但它在印度出現。現在，這位女士，她用做捲繞紗線來 [不清楚]。在一天，18000 次，她不得不這樣捲繞去生成兩個紗麗。這是她的兒子經過 7年鬥爭後做到的。她說，“改變你的職業。”他說，“我不能。這是我唯一知道，但我會發明一種機器，這將解決您的問題。“這是他做過的，[不清楚] 在 Uttar Pradesh。所以，這是 Sristi 說的：“給我一個支點，我將移動地球。” 我只想告訴你，我們也為了孩子們做了一個比賽有關創意的，整個糸到的事情。我們已在世界各地出售物品，從埃塞俄比亞到土耳其到美國到任何地方。產品到達了市場，一部份。這些人的知識令從濕疹做了這個 Herbavate 變得有可能 。在這裡，一個公司授權這 [不清楚] 農藥把創新者的照片放在包裝上，這樣，每次用戶使用它，它請要用戶，“你也可以成為創新者。如果你有一個想法，發送回給我們。“因此，創意是有意義的，知識是有意思的，創新改造，獎勵激勵。獎勵，不僅是物質的，而且還有非物質的獎勵。 多謝 (拍掌)"
