Talk	en	zh-tw
anil_ananthaswamy	"I would like to talk today about what I think is one of the greatest adventures human beings have embarked upon, which is the quest to understand the universe and our place in it. My own interest in this subject, and my passion for it, began rather accidentally. I had bought a copy of this book, ""The Universe and Dr. Einstein"" — a used paperback from a secondhand bookstore in Seattle. A few years after that, in Bangalore, I was finding it hard to fall asleep one night, and I picked up this book, thinking it would put me to sleep in 10 minutes. And as it happened, I read it from midnight to five in the morning in one shot. And I was left with this intense feeling of awe and exhilaration at the universe and our own ability to understand as much as we do. And that feeling hasn't left me yet. That feeling was the trigger for me to actually change my career — from being a software engineer to become a science writer — so that I could partake in the joy of science, and also the joy of communicating it to others. And that feeling also led me to a pilgrimage of sorts, to go literally to the ends of the earth to see telescopes, detectors, instruments that people are building, or have built, in order to probe the cosmos in greater and greater detail. So it took me from places like Chile — the Atacama Desert in Chile — to Siberia, to underground mines in the Japanese Alps, in Northern America, all the way to Antarctica and even to the South Pole. And today I would like to share with you some images, some stories of these trips. I have been basically spending the last few years documenting the efforts of some extremely intrepid men and women who are putting, literally at times, their lives at stake working in some very remote and very hostile places so that they may gather the faintest signals from the cosmos in order for us to understand this universe. And I first begin with a pie chart — and I promise this is the only pie chart in the whole presentation — but it sets up the state of our knowledge of the cosmos. All the theories in physics that we have today properly explain what is called normal matter — the stuff that we're all made of — and that's four percent of the universe. Astronomers and cosmologists and physicists think that there is something called dark matter in the universe, which makes up 23 percent of the universe, and something called dark energy, which permeates the fabric of space-time, that makes up another 73 percent. So if you look at this pie chart, 96 percent of the universe, at this point in our exploration of it, is unknown or not well understood. And most of the experiments, telescopes that I went to see are in some way addressing this question, these two twin mysteries of dark matter and dark energy. I will take you first to an underground mine in Northern Minnesota where people are looking for something called dark matter. And the idea here is that they are looking for a sign of a dark matter particle hitting one of their detectors. And the reason why they have to go underground is that, if you did this experiment on the surface of the Earth, the same experiment would be swamped by signals that could be created by things like cosmic rays, ambient radio activity, even our own bodies. You might not believe it, but even our own bodies are radioactive enough to disturb this experiment. So they go deep inside mines to find a kind of environmental silence that will allow them to hear the ping of a dark matter particle hitting their detector. And I went to see one of these experiments, and this is actually — you can barely see it, and the reason for that is it's entirely dark in there — this is a cavern that was left behind by the miners who left this mine in 1960. And physicists came and started using it sometime in the 1980s. And the miners in the early part of the last century worked, literally, in candlelight. And today, you would see this inside the mine, half a mile underground. This is one of the largest underground labs in the world. And, among other things, they're looking for dark matter. There is another way to search for dark matter, which is indirectly. If dark matter exists in our universe, in our galaxy, then these particles should be smashing together and producing other particles that we know about — one of them being neutrinos. And neutrinos you can detect by the signature they leave when they hit water molecules. When a neutrino hits a water molecule it emits a kind of blue light, a flash of blue light, and by looking for this blue light, you can essentially understand something about the neutrino and then, indirectly, something about the dark matter that might have created this neutrino. But you need very, very large volumes of water in order to do this. You need something like tens of megatons of water — almost a gigaton of water — in order to have any chance of catching this neutrino. And where in the world would you find such water? Well the Russians have a tank in their own backyard. This is Lake Baikal. It is the largest lake in the world. It's 800 km long. It's about 40 to 50 km wide in most places, and one to two kilometers deep. And what the Russians are doing is they're building these detectors and immersing them about a kilometer beneath the surface of the lake so that they can watch for these flashes of blue light. And this is the scene that greeted me when I landed there. This is Lake Baikal in the peak of the Siberian winter. The lake is entirely frozen. And the line of black dots that you see in the background, that's the ice camp where the physicists are working. The reason why they have to work in winter is because they don't have the money to work in summer and spring, which, if they did that, they would need ships and submersibles to do their work. So they wait until winter — the lake is completely frozen over — and they use this meter-thick ice as a platform on which to establish their ice camp and do their work. So this is the Russians working on the ice in the peak of the Siberian winter. They have to drill holes in the ice, dive down into the water — cold, cold water — to get hold of the instrument, bring it up, do any repairs and maintenance that they need to do, put it back and get out before the ice melts. Because that phase of solid ice lasts for two months and it's full of cracks. And you have to imagine, there's an entire sea-like lake underneath, moving. I still don't understand this one Russian man working in his bare chest, but that tells you how hard he was working. And these people, a handful of people, have been working for 20 years, looking for particles that may or may not exist. And they have dedicated their lives to it. And just to give you an idea, they have spent 20 million over 20 years. It's very harsh conditions. They work on a shoestring budget. The toilets there are literally holes in the ground covered with a wooden shack. And it's that basic, but they do this every year. From Siberia to the Atacama Desert in Chile, to see something called The Very Large Telescope. The Very Large Telescope is one of these things that astronomers do — they name their telescopes rather unimaginatively. I can tell you for a fact, that the next one that they're planning is called The Extremely Large Telescope. (Laughter) And you wouldn't believe it, but the one after that is going to be called The Overwhelmingly Large Telescope. But nonetheless, it's an extraordinary piece of engineering. These are four 8.2 meter telescopes. And these telescopes, among other things, they're being used to study how the expansion of the universe is changing with time. And the more you understand that, the better you would understand what this dark energy that the universe is made of is all about. And one piece of engineering that I want to leave you with as regards this telescope is the mirror. Each mirror, there are four of them, is made of a single piece of glass, a monolithic piece of high-tech ceramic, that has been ground down and polished to such accuracy that the only way to understand what that is is [to] imagine a city like Paris, with all its buildings and the Eiffel Tower, if you grind down Paris to that kind of accuracy, you would be left with bumps that are one millimeter high. And that's the kind of polishing that these mirrors have endured. An extraordinary set of telescopes. Here's another view of the same. The reason why you have to build these telescopes in places like the Atacama Desert is because of the high altitude desert. The dry air is really good for telescopes, and also, the cloud cover is below the summit of these mountains so that the telescopes have about 300 days of clear skies. Finally, I want to take you to Antarctica. I want to spend most of my time on this part of the world. This is cosmology's final frontier. Some of the most amazing experiments, some of the most extreme experiments, are being done in Antarctica. I was there to view something called a long-duration balloon flight, which basically takes telescopes and instruments all the way to the upper atmosphere, the upper stratosphere, 40 km up. And that's where they do their experiments, and then the balloon, the payload, is brought down. So this is us landing on the Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica. That's an American C-17 cargo plane that flew us from New Zealand to McMurdo in Antarctica. And here we are about to board our bus. And I don't know if you can read the lettering, but it says, ""Ivan the Terribus."" And that's taking us to McMurdo. And this is the scene that greets you in McMurdo. And you barely might be able to make out this hut here. This hut was built by Robert Falcon Scott and his men when they first came to Antarctica on their first expedition to go to the South Pole. Because it's so cold, the entire contents of that hut is still as they left it, with the remnants of the last meal they cooked still there. It's an extraordinary place. This is McMurdo itself. About a thousand people work here in summer, and about 200 in winter when it's completely dark for six months. I was here to see the launch of this particular type of instrument. This is a cosmic ray experiment that has been launched all the way to the upper-stratosphere to an altitude of 40 km. What I want you to imagine is this is two tons in weight. So you're using a balloon to carry something that is two tons all the way to an altitude of 40 km. And the engineers, the technicians, the physicists have all got to assemble on the Ross Ice Shelf, because Antarctica — I won't go into the reasons why — but it's one of the most favorable places for doing these balloon launches, except for the weather. The weather, as you can imagine, this is summer, and you're standing on 200 ft of ice. And there's a volcano behind, which has glaciers at the very top. And what they have to do is they have to assemble the entire balloon — the fabric, parachute and everything — on the ice and then fill it up with helium. And that process takes about two hours. And the weather can change as they're putting together this whole assembly. For instance, here they are laying down the balloon fabric behind, which is eventually going to be filled up with helium. Those two trucks you see at the very end carry 12 tanks each of compressed helium. Now, in case the weather changes before the launch, they have to actually pack everything back up into their boxes and take it out back to McMurdo Station. And this particular balloon, because it has to launch two tons of weight, is an extremely huge balloon. The fabric alone weighs two tons. In order to minimize the weight, it's very thin, it's as thin as a sandwich wrapper. And if they have to pack it back, they have to put it into boxes and stamp on it so that it fits into the box again — except, when they did it first, it would have been done in Texas. Here, they can't do it with the kind shoes they're wearing, so they have to take their shoes off, get barefoot into the boxes, in this cold, and do that kind of work. That's the kind of dedication these people have. Here's the balloon being filled up with helium, and you can see it's a gorgeous sight. Here's a scene that shows you the balloon and the payload end-to-end. So the balloon is being filled up with helium on the left-hand side, and the fabric actually runs all the way to the middle where there's a piece of electronics and explosives being connected to a parachute, and then the parachute is then connected to the payload. And remember, all this wiring is being done by people in extreme cold, in sub-zero temperatures. They're wearing about 15 kg of clothing and stuff, but they have to take their gloves off in order to do that. And I would like to share with you a launch. (Video) Radio: Okay, release the balloon, release the balloon, release the balloon. Anil Ananthaswamy: And I'll finally like to leave you with two images. This is an observatory in the Himalayas, in Ladakh in India. And the thing I want you to look at here is the telescope on the right-hand side. And on the far left there is a 400 year-old Buddhist monastery. This is a close-up of the Buddhist monastery. And I was struck by the juxtaposition of these two enormous disciplines that humanity has. One is exploring the cosmos on the outside, and the other one is exploring our interior being. And both require silence of some sort. And what struck me was every place that I went to to see these telescopes, the astronomers and cosmologists are in search of a certain kind of silence, whether it's silence from radio pollution or light pollution or whatever. And it was very obvious that, if we destroy these silent places on Earth, we will be stuck on a planet without the ability to look outwards, because we will not be able to understand the signals that come from outer space. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我要講的是一種最棒的探險自人類啟程去尋找以來,最重要探險活動那就是,了解宇宙以及我們在宇宙中的地位我自己對這個主題的興趣及熱情從何而來?開始其實很偶然我買過ㄧ本書「宇宙和愛因斯坦先生」在西雅圖的二手書店買的買了之後的幾年,在印度班加羅爾有天晚上,睡不著我順手拿起這本書以為它能幫我快速在10分鐘內進入夢鄉結果我從夜半讀到天色微明那書帶給我極大的震撼對宇宙敬畏和興奮兼而有之以及我們雖然極盡的想要了解,但了解的又那麼的有限那種感覺迄今猶存 並且引發我起了「轉行」念頭從軟體工程師,成為一名科普文學作者使我可以參與科學帶來的喜悅以及和其他人分享科學知識的喜悅也是那種感覺引領我啟動一場朝聖之旅朝著地球上的天之涯,水之巔向前去探訪望遠鏡,探測器這些人類曾經打造過,或正在興建中的科學儀器奉宇宙之名而為之的探索一步步探入了更多細節所以,我去過智利智利的阿塔卡瑪沙漠到過西伯利亞下過地底礦脈坑道在日本阿爾卑斯山,北美洲一路直到南極洲甚至到了南極圈 今天要和各位分享其中一些照片,及這些探索之旅的一些故事最近幾年我一直在記錄著這些人的努力這些有著大無畏精神的男性及女性他們投入的有時候是冒著生命危險在一些極遙遠,極惡劣下的環境工作為了收集宇宙中最微弱的一些信號然後,我們才能更多一點了解宇宙 我要從餅形圖先開始說起我保證這是唯一一張會講數字的投影片整個短講中唯一的一張餅形圖它用來說明我們對宇宙的粗淺認識今天已知的所有物理學理論對正常物質都可以略做解釋正常物質指的是我們身體組成物的這一類東西這些一共只佔宇宙的4%天文學家,宇宙學家和物理學者認為宇宙裡有暗物質構成宇宙的23%然後還有暗能量是瀰漫在整個空時架構當中的暗能量佔了宇宙的73%看看這張大餅圖,宇宙中96%以當今我們對它的探索而言都仍屬未知,或不甚了解大多數我去看過在進行中的實驗或望遠鏡設備為的都是要解答這個奧秘暗物質和暗能量的雙子之謎 首先帶各位去看一個地下坑道位在明尼蘇達北方這裡有些人在找暗物質這種東西概念上來說,他們找一個訊號如果有暗物質粒子撞上了它們的偵測器的話,會發出一個信號為什麼他們得待在地底下原因,這個實驗若在地表上進行太多地面上的雜訊會把這個關鍵信號淹沒掉譬如說宇宙射線之物到處都有的無線電信號甚至我們的身體,也許難以置信但是你身體發出的信號都可能引響實驗的結果所以他們得深入地底下找到一個沉寂之處以便聽得到暗物質粒子撞上偵測器時發出的那個聲響 我去看過他們的一場試驗現場像這樣 — 幾乎啥都看不見原因是那裡幾乎完全漆黑一片這是個礦產業所留下來的洞穴他們1960年左右停止採礦然後物理學者開始接手運用這座礦坑是在1980年上個世紀早期的礦工事實上是靠著燭光在這裡工作今天在這個地方大約深達地下半英里之處這是世上少數幾個大型地下實驗室之ㄧ他們有好幾個目標,其中之ㄧ是尋找暗物質 有好幾個方法可以尋找暗物質是以間接方式如果暗物質存在於宇宙中在我們的銀河系裡那麼這些粒子應該會撞在一起創造出其他我們已知的粒子其中之ㄧ就是微中子探測微中子的方式是可追蹤它們遺留的軌跡它們撞擊水分子時當微中子撞擊水分子時它會發出一種藍色光藍色的閃光尋找這種藍色光對微中子的了解可能會增加一些認識意味著我們對暗物質的認識也能更進一步微中子,有可能是由暗物質而來但我們需要很大量的水才能進行這個觀察實驗需要上千萬噸的水幾乎上億噸的水為了要有點機會抓住微中子世界上哪裡有這麼多水的地方?俄羅斯的後院裡有個水庫 貝加爾湖全世界最大的湖。長800公里寬度40到50公里多數的深度約1到2公里俄羅斯人現在做的工作是建造這些探測器埋到河面底下一公里深的地方為了找尋這些一閃而過的藍色光我降落在那裡的時候迎接我的就是這樣的景象這是貝加爾湖在西伯利亞冬季最低溫時整個湖完全結冰黑色點點的線就是你在背景上看到的那些線是在那裡工作的物理學家紮營的地點必須在冬季裡工作的原因是他們沒有在春夏季裡進行這些工作所需要的經費因為如果那樣的話他們需要船和潛水艇才行所以等到冬季這時湖面完全結冰運用厚度達一公尺的冰得以在冰上建立營地以便工作得以展開 所以俄羅斯人在冰上的工作是這樣在西伯利亞最天寒地凍的冬季裡進行的必須在冰上鑿洞潛水到水中 — 很冷很冷的水中取得儀器,帶上水面來進行任何必要的修理和維修然後在冰層融化之前再趕快把儀器放回水底下去因為堅硬冰層只維持為期兩個月完全像石頭一樣硬想像一面向海一樣遼闊無邊的湖在那湖面底下移動我迄今仍未明白這位俄羅斯男人赤裸著胸膛工作但這至少說明他有多認真工作這些人,數量不算少已經如此工作了20年尋找或許存在或不存在的粒子為此獻上自己的生命為了讓你有點概念20年來他們只花了2千萬條件很差預算極為微薄冰上挖的洞就是洗手間上面加塊木板這麼原始年復一年的做 接下來,從西伯利亞我們去看智利的阿塔卡瑪沙漠去看一組叫做甚大望遠鏡的光學望遠鏡「甚大望遠鏡」天文學家習慣取一些沒什麼想像力的名字我直接告訴各位下一個計畫中的陣列,名字就叫做特大陣列望遠鏡(笑聲)你不會相信再下一個又會叫做超級特大陣列望遠鏡不管怎麼說這是工程史上了不起的一個傑作4架8.2米望遠鏡這些望遠鏡有許多目的還包括用來研究宇宙如何隨著時間而擴張愈多了解一些就愈明白暗能量—一種生成了宇宙的東西—是什麼 我要把一樣了不起的和這望遠鏡相關的工程傑作向各位介紹是望遠鏡的鏡面一共有四個鏡面,每一面都由一塊玻璃製成單一一塊高科技陶瓷技術被細磨,拋光到非常精準之程度怎樣想像了解這研磨達到多精密?你可以想像一個像巴黎一樣大的城市所有建築物和艾菲爾鐵塔如果你以它的精準度去磨碎巴黎的話碎塊大約只有一毫米厚這些鏡面承受過的研磨拋光精細度就是如此高令人驚嘆的望遠鏡陣列組另一個圖像建造這些望遠鏡的理由建造在阿塔卡瑪沙漠中是因為在高緯度的沙漠中乾燥的空氣才適合望遠鏡看得遠並且,山頂高度已超過雲層這些望遠鏡一年有300個無雲的天空可進行觀測 最後我要帶你到北極洲我很想把大部分時間都花在這個角落這裡是宇宙學的最後一個前線區最奇異的一些實驗最最超乎想像的實驗就是在南極洲這裡進行的我在那裡要看的是個叫做超長續航時間的氣球飛行計畫基本上搭載的全都是望遠鏡和儀器飛上大氣層高層同溫層的上層,約40公里以上實驗就在那裡進行然後氣球以及乘載之物,又再被帶下來這是我們,降落在南極洲的Ross Ice Shelf 這個地方這是一架美國 C-17 貨機我們從紐西蘭啟程抵達南極區的McMurdo在這裡我們要搭轉乘巴士不知你能否看清楚上面寫的字可以的話,所寫上的是「伊凡的恐怖巴士」就是這個車,載我們前往McMurdo 那裡,列隊歡迎您光臨的是這個景象在那裡幾乎很難拼湊出甚至只是一間像這樣的小屋它是由羅伯法坎司考特和他的團隊建造的當他們第一次來到南極區第一次進行南極探險時因為天氣酷寒他們離去時在小屋裡留下的東西都還和當初一樣最後一次開火烹煮所剩餘食物都還在那裡非常特別的地方這是McMurdo,夏季約有1000人在這裡工作冬季則約200人冬季時天全是黑的,要過6個月 我在那裡要看發射這種特殊儀器的發射升空這是一種探測宇宙射線用的儀器向上發射直達同溫層上層距離地面海拔約40公里處我希望各位想像一下的是,這裡有兩噸的重量用一個氣球當作飛行器用來乘載兩噸的重量要到海拔約40公里的高空工程師技術人員和物理學家都必須在這塊 Ross Ice Shelf 完成組裝因為南極區 - 我不花時間解釋為什麼是最適合從事這種實驗的地方之ㄧ除了氣候以外可以想像,它的氣候即便夏天裡,也是站在厚200呎的冰層上後面有火山火山頂上有冰層覆蓋他們必須做的是組裝整個氣球編織品,降落傘和所有東西 — 都在冰上完成再以氫氣將它灌飽這個過程費時約2小時 當組裝進行中,天氣可能說變就變例如,他們把未充氣前的氣球拖拉在後面最後會以氦氣灌滿這支氣球所看到最後兩台卡車每輛乘載著12桶壓縮氦氣要是天氣在發射升空之前起變化所有東西都得裝回箱子裡恢復原狀再運回McMurdo基地站這顆特製的汽球設計是要乘載兩噸重的物品升空所以非常非常大氣球體本身重量兩噸為了縮減重量它很薄,厚度只和包裝三明治包裝紙一樣要重新打包裝回箱子的話得要用力推壓加上封印最初裝箱作業是在德州完成這裡他們腳上穿的鞋子不適合完成這個工作所以鞋子得脫掉在南極的天候中光腳進入箱子裡完成打包的工作這就是這些人對科學作出的貢獻 這些氣球充滿了氦氣以後這是甚為壯觀的一幕請看完整的氣球外加上承載物品一覽左邊的氣球正在充灌氦氣一直到中間都是氣球中段附近有一個電子裝置負責點火引爆是和一張降落傘相連降落傘再和裝載物相連提醒您,這些佈線工作都是在極度寒冷零下氣候中靠人力施工的他們身上穿著重達15公斤的衣物和設備但是有時為了工作的緣故手套卻得脫掉這裡和大家分享一段升空的影片 (來自影片的聲音)無線電:OK,釋放氣球釋放氣球,釋放氣球 安尼 阿拿司旺米: 結束前我還有兩張圖片這是位在喜馬拉雅山上的觀測站,印度的拉達克請細看右手邊的望遠鏡及最左邊一間400年歷史的佛寺建築物近照兩相並列之下令我心頭一震是這人類的兩大學科一個向外探索無邊的宇宙一個是向內探索深層的內在二者都需要某種寂靜的要素 令我震撼的是每一處我前往參觀的望遠鏡每一位天文學家和宇宙學者無不是正尋找著一種,無聲的狀態或在電波訊號受干擾的環境中尋找或在光害嚴重的環境中尋找顯然破壞地球上的無聲寧靜以後也就失去了對大千宇宙感知的能力因為我們理解不了,那來自外太空的訊號 謝謝 (掌聲)
