Talk	en	zh-tw
ann_morgan_my_year_reading_a_book_from_every_country_in_the_world	"It's often said that you can tell a lot about a person by looking at what's on their bookshelves. What do my bookshelves say about me? Well, when I asked myself this question a few years ago, I made an alarming discovery. I'd always thought of myself as a fairly cultured, cosmopolitan sort of person. But my bookshelves told a rather different story. Pretty much all the titles on them were by British or North American authors, and there was almost nothing in translation. Discovering this massive, cultural blind spot in my reading came as quite a shock. And when I thought about it, it seemed like a real shame. I knew there had to be lots of amazing stories out there by writers working in languages other than English. And it seemed really sad to think that my reading habits meant I would probably never encounter them. So, I decided to prescribe myself an intensive course of global reading. 2012 was set to be a very international year for the UK; it was the year of the London Olympics. And so I decided to use it as my time frame to try to read a novel, short story collection or memoir from every country in the world. And so I did. And it was very exciting and I learned some remarkable things and made some wonderful connections that I want to share with you today. But it started with some practical problems. After I'd worked out which of the many different lists of countries in the world to use for my project, I ended up going with the list of UN-recognized nations, to which I added Taiwan, which gave me a total of 196 countries. And after I'd worked out how to fit reading and blogging about, roughly, four books a week around working five days a week, I then had to face up to the fact that I might even not be able to get books in English from every country. Only around 4.5 percent of the literary works published each year in the UK are translations, and the figures are similar for much of the English-speaking world. Although, the proportion of translated books published in many other countries is a lot higher. 4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with, but what that figure doesn't tell you is that many of those books will come from countries with strong publishing networks and lots of industry professionals primed to go out and sell those titles to English-language publishers. So, for example, although well over 100 books are translated from French and published in the UK each year, most of them will come from countries like France or Switzerland. French-speaking Africa, on the other hand, will rarely ever get a look-in. The upshot is that there are actually quite a lot of nations that may have little or even no commercially available literature in English. Their books remain invisible to readers of the world's most published language. But when it came to reading the world, the biggest challenge of all for me was that fact that I didn't know where to start. Having spent my life reading almost exclusively British and North American books, I had no idea how to go about sourcing and finding stories and choosing them from much of the rest of the world. I couldn't tell you how to source a story from Swaziland. I wouldn't know a good novel from Namibia. There was no hiding it — I was a clueless literary xenophobe. So how on earth was I going to read the world? I was going to have to ask for help. So in October 2011, I registered my blog, ayearofreadingtheworld.com, and I posted a short appeal online. I explained who I was, how narrow my reading had been, and I asked anyone who cared to to leave a message suggesting what I might read from other parts of the planet. Now, I had no idea whether anyone would be interested, but within a few hours of me posting that appeal online, people started to get in touch. At first, it was friends and colleagues. Then it was friends of friends. And pretty soon, it was strangers. Four days after I put that appeal online, I got a message from a woman called Rafidah in Kuala Lumpur. She said she loved the sound of my project, could she go to her local English-language bookshop and choose my Malaysian book and post it to me? I accepted enthusiastically, and a few weeks later, a package arrived containing not one, but two books — Rafidah's choice from Malaysia, and a book from Singapore that she had also picked out for me. Now, at the time, I was amazed that a stranger more than 6,000 miles away would go to such lengths to help someone she would probably never meet. But Rafidah's kindness proved to be the pattern for that year. Time and again, people went out of their way to help me. Some took on research on my behalf, and others made detours on holidays and business trips to go to bookshops for me. It turns out, if you want to read the world, if you want to encounter it with an open mind, the world will help you. When it came to countries with little or no commercially available literature in English, people went further still. Books often came from surprising sources. My Panamanian read, for example, came through a conversation I had with the Panama Canal on Twitter. Yes, the Panama Canal has a Twitter account. And when I tweeted at it about my project, it suggested that I might like to try and get hold of the work of the Panamanian author Juan David Morgan. I found Morgan's website and I sent him a message, asking if any of his Spanish-language novels had been translated into English. And he said that nothing had been published, but he did have an unpublished translation of his novel ""The Golden Horse."" He emailed this to me, allowing me to become one of the first people ever to read that book in English. Morgan was by no means the only wordsmith to share his work with me in this way. From Sweden to Palau, writers and translators sent me self-published books and unpublished manuscripts of books that hadn't been picked up by Anglophone publishers or that were no longer available, giving me privileged glimpses of some remarkable imaginary worlds. I read, for example, about the Southern African king Ngungunhane, who led the resistance against the Portuguese in the 19th century; and about marriage rituals in a remote village on the shores of the Caspian sea in Turkmenistan. I met Kuwait's answer to Bridget Jones. (Laughter) And I read about an orgy in a tree in Angola. But perhaps the most amazing example of the lengths that people were prepared to go to to help me read the world, came towards the end of my quest, when I tried to get hold of a book from the tiny, Portuguese-speaking African island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Now, having spent several months trying everything I could think of to find a book that had been translated into English from the nation, it seemed as though the only option left to me was to see if I could get something translated for me from scratch. Now, I was really dubious whether anyone was going to want to help with this, and give up their time for something like that. But, within a week of me putting a call out on Twitter and Facebook for Portuguese speakers, I had more people than I could involve in the project, including Margaret Jull Costa, a leader in her field, who has translated the work of Nobel Prize winner José Saramago. With my nine volunteers in place, I managed to find a book by a São Toméan author that I could buy enough copies of online. Here's one of them. And I sent a copy out to each of my volunteers. They all took on a couple of short stories from this collection, stuck to their word, sent their translations back to me, and within six weeks, I had the entire book to read. In that case, as I found so often during my year of reading the world, my not knowing and being open about my limitations had become a big opportunity. When it came to São Tomé and Príncipe, it was a chance not only to learn something new and discover a new collection of stories, but also to bring together a group of people and facilitate a joint creative endeavor. My weakness had become the project's strength. The books I read that year opened my eyes to many things. As those who enjoy reading will know, books have an extraordinary power to take you out of yourself and into someone else's mindset, so that, for a while at least, you look at the world through different eyes. That can be an uncomfortable experience, particularly if you're reading a book from a culture that may have quite different values to your own. But it can also be really enlightening. Wrestling with unfamiliar ideas can help clarify your own thinking. And it can also show up blind spots in the way you might have been looking at the world. When I looked back at much of the English-language literature I'd grown up with, for example, I began to see how narrow a lot of it was, compared to the richness that the world has to offer. And as the pages turned, something else started to happen, too. Little by little, that long list of countries that I'd started the year with, changed from a rather dry, academic register of place names into living, breathing entities. Now, I don't want to suggest that it's at all possible to get a rounded picture of a country simply by reading one book. But cumulatively, the stories I read that year made me more alive than ever before to the richness, diversity and complexity of our remarkable planet. It was as though the world's stories and the people who'd gone to such lengths to help me read them had made it real to me. These days, when I look at my bookshelves or consider the works on my e-reader, they tell a rather different story. It's the story of the power books have to connect us across political, geographical, cultural, social, religious divides. It's the tale of the potential human beings have to work together. And, it's testament to the extraordinary times we live in, where, thanks to the Internet, it's easier than ever before for a stranger to share a story, a worldview, a book with someone she may never meet, on the other side of the planet. I hope it's a story I'm reading for many years to come. And I hope many more people will join me. If we all read more widely, there'd be more incentive for publishers to translate more books, and we would all be richer for that. Thank you. (Applause)"	常言道「你可以看出一個人很多東西，就看看在他們的書架上有著什麼」，我的書架又透露出我什麼事呢？當我幾年前問自己這個問題的時候，有了一個令人憂心的發現；我一直自認算是個相當有文化修養、見多識廣的那種人，但是我的書架上卻訴說著甚是不同的故事。它們書身全部的名銜極大多數是英國與北美的作家，而幾乎沒有翻譯品，發現我在閱讀上這個不得了的文化盲點相當晴天霹靂。 當我一想到這兒，真是有點不好意思，我知道此外有著許多作者是用非英語的語言寫出令人嘖嘖稱奇的故事，想到我的閱讀習慣意味著我極可能永遠無法與他們交會，真的很令人傷心。所以我打定主意要給自己排定一個閱讀全球的扎實歷程。2012 年被英國訂定成大國際化年－「倫敦奧運年」。所以我決定把那年當作是我的期限表，嘗試閱讀來自世界各國的小說、短篇故事集或是傳記，而且我就照這樣去做了。這非常刺激！而且我學到了一些非同小可的事情，以及產生一些我今天想要與你分享的美好牽連。 不過一起步就有著一些現實的問題，在我已經計算好世界各國眾多的不同清單裡哪一張要用在我的計畫裡之後，我最終照著聯合國所認定的國家清單，其中我加進了「台灣」，給了我總共196 個國家。而在我計算出如何恰足以閱讀和寫部落格後－大概一個禮拜四本書、五個工作天； 我接著得要面對－也許我沒辦法從每個國家去取得用英文翻譯好了的書－這個事實，在英國每年所出版的著作只有 4.5 ％ 左右是翻譯品，該數字相當於世界上說英語之地方的多寡，即便在許多其他國家翻譯書籍被出版的比例是高出許多，4.5 ％雖少但在起頭時是夠了的；但是那個數字所沒告訴你的是－許多那些書會是來自有著茁壯之出版通路的國家，而且眾多該業界之專業人才準備好要向外走出以及販賣那些書目給英語出版商。舉例來說雖然每一年有超過100 本書是從法文翻譯過來以及在英國出版，其中大部份將會是來自法國和瑞士；另一方面來說使用法文的非洲國家將會很少有機會來出線。 結果就是實際上相當多國家也許只有少許甚或沒有商務上買得到的英文著作，它們的書對世界上出版最大宗之語種的讀者而言還是連個影子都沒有。但是當講到了「閱讀世界」，對我來說最大的難關就是我不知道從哪裡做開端的事實；已經花了我一輩子的時間在閱讀幾乎不外於英國和北美的書籍，我根本不清楚要如何去獲取、找到故事和從世界更多其他各處去挑選，我沒辦法跟你說要如何從斯威士蘭取得一本小說、我不會知道納米比亞的一本好小說，不諱言讓你知道我是個漫無頭緒的文學輕外者，我究竟憑什麼打定主意「閱讀世界」呢？ 我打定主意得去請人幫忙，所以在 2011 年的十月我註冊了自己的部落格－ayearofreadingtheworld.com，我在網路上張貼了簡短的訴請，我說明了我是什麼人、過去以來我的閱讀是如何的狹隘、以及我懇請任何有心人留下訊息來建議我可以讀些來自世界各角落的什麼書。我不清楚到底有沒有人會有興趣嗎？不過在張貼訴請的幾個小時內大家開始來聯絡了；起先是朋友和同事們，接著是朋友的友人，很快地便是陌生人了。 在我把訴請放到網路上四天後，我從名喚「拉菲妲」的吉隆坡女性那裡收到一則訊息，她說她喜愛我的計畫給人的感覺，她能否去當地的英語書店挑選我的馬來西亞書並且寄給我嗎？我熱切地接受了，幾個禮拜後包裹抵達了，內附不是一本而是兩本書－拉菲妲來自馬來西亞的選擇、還有一本她也挑給我的新加坡書。當適時我很詫異一個遠在6,000 哩外的陌生人會竭盡心力地來幫忙她也許永遠碰不上的某人！ 但是拉菲妲的好心腸印證了那年的模式－一遍又一遍地大家費盡心思來幫我；有些人代替我接手研考、其他人在渡假或是商務旅行時繞道去為我購書。結果發現假使你想要讀遍世界、你想要帶著敞開的心房去會見它－這世界將會幫助你。當來到只有一些或是商務上無法取得用英文翻好文學著作的國家時，人家依然更賣力來幫忙。 書籍常常出於意外的取得，舉例而言我的閱讀巴拿馬來自我和推特上「巴拿馬運河」的對話。沒錯！推特帳號有「巴拿馬運河」，在我推文了我的計畫它建議說我或許會想要試試和持有巴拿馬作家「寰大衛．摩根」的作品。我找到了摩根的網站寄給他一則訊息，問道是否有任何一本他的西班牙文小說已經被翻譯成英語的；而他說沒有英文版作品曾被出版過，不過他確實有他的小說「黃金馬」未出版的翻譯本，他電郵給了這個給我，同意我成為至今為止最先用英文讀過這本書的人。 摩根絕非是唯一的文學巨擘用這種方式跟我分享他的作品，從瑞典以至於帛琉作家和譯者們送給我自印的書以及未出版的手稿－那些沒被輕外的出版商所挑中，或是再也買不到的書，給了我令人眼紅的暫瞥引人入勝的意想世界。我讀了好比南非國王「袞袞哈納」在十九世紀帶頭反抗葡萄牙人、在土庫曼遙遠裏海邊岸村莊的結婚禮俗、我遇見了給布莉姬．瓊斯的科威特答案、 (笑聲) 還有我讀到了在安哥拉一棵樹上縱情狂歡。 不過也許大家打定主意竭盡心力來幫助我閱讀世界最不可思議的例子出現在我探索的結尾，當我試著從講葡萄牙語的非洲小島國「聖多美普林西比」得到一本書的時候；在持續花了幾個月試過所有我能夠想到東西來找到一本該國已經被翻成英語的書，看起來好像剩下的唯一選項就是看看我是否能夠無中生有取得翻譯好要給我的東西。我真的很沒把握到底有誰想要幫忙我這事，為了像這款事捨棄自己的時間。但是當我對通曉葡萄牙語的人在推特和臉書上徵求不到一個禮拜內，我有了更多我能在計畫裡納進來的人；包括了瑪格莉特．茱寇斯塔 －在其行業裡的一位領袖人物，她翻譯過諾貝爾得主「若澤．薩拉馬戈」的作品。有了我的九位志工蓄勢以待，我順利找到我可以在網路上買到足夠多份聖多美作家的一本書；這裡是其中一本，而我送給了我每一位義工一本。他們都從本合集裡承攬了幾個短故事，說到做到的把譯本送回來給我，六個禮拜內我有了整本書好讀。 因為這樣在我一年裡讀遍世界的期間，經常發現到我的無知以及做到不遮掩我的侷限已經變成一個大大的良機，當著手閱讀聖多美普林西比時，那是一個機會－不但學到新東西、發現新的故事集，而且把一群人湊在一塊促成一個集結催生的奮鬥，我的不足變成了該計畫的強項。 我在那一年所讀的書大開我的眼界，如同喜愛閱讀的人所知道－書本有股超凡的力量帶你脫離自己進到某人的思維裡，所以起碼有一陣子的時間你透過了不同的眼光看待這世界。那可以是一個不好受的體驗特別是假使你閱讀一本書－可能來自價值觀與你自己有相當大差異的文化；但是它也可以是確實啟發人的，與陌生的想法角力可以幫助釐清自己的思考，而且它也可以彰顯出盲點－你一直用來看世界的方法可能會有的。 當我回顧好比說眾多伴隨我成長的英文著作時，我開始看見那有多麼地窄淺，相較於這世界所提供之豐盈。而且當頁數跳轉也開始發生一些事情了，一點一滴的那一長串我起步那一年持有的國家列表，從一個比較枯燥、學理上登錄的地名轉變成有生命般的實體。 此時我不是要建議單單透過讀本書就有絲毫可能獲取一國周密的圖像；但是累積下來我在那年讀過的故事使得我比以前對我們引人入勝之地球的豐盈、多元性、複雜度要更清醒，這就好像世界的故事和已經竭盡心力幫助我閱讀它們的大夥把它變得實在。這些日子以來當我看著我自己的書架，或是深思我電子閱讀器上的作品時，它們訴說出了更不一樣的故事；是書本擁有力量的故事－連結我們橫跨政治、地理、文化、社會、信仰的劃分，那是人類有著共事潛力的故事。 這對我們所依存別開生面的時代是個考驗，感謝網際網路－讓陌生人來分享故事、世界觀、一本書給她也許從未見過地球上在其他地方的某人比以前還要更容易。我希望這是個我將長年閱讀的故事，而且我希望更多人會來加入我，要是我們所有人閱讀得更廣博，對出版商就會有更多誘因來翻譯更多的書，而我們全都會為此更為淵博。 謝謝大家！ (掌聲)
