Talk	en	zh-tw
anna_mracek_dietrich_a_plane_you_can_drive	"What is it about flying cars? We've wanted to do this for about a hundred years. And there are historic attempts that have had some level of technical success. But we haven't yet gotten to the point where on your way here this morning you see something that really, truly seamlessly integrates the two-dimensional world that we're comfortable in with the three-dimensional sky above us — that, I don't know about you, but I really enjoy spending time in. We looked at the historical attempts that had been out there and realized that, despite the fact that we have a lot of modern innovations to draw on today that weren't available previously — we have modern composite materials, we have aircraft engines that get good fuel economy and have better power-to-rate ratios than have ever been available, we have glass cockpit avionics that bring the information you need to fly directly to you in the cockpit — but without fundamentally addressing the problem from a different perspective, we realized that we were going to be getting the same result that people had been getting for the last hundred years, which isn't where we want to be right now. So instead of trying to make a car that can fly, we decided to try to make a plane that could drive. And the result is the Terrafugia Transition. It's a two-seat, single-engine airplane that works just like any other small airplane. You take off and land at a local airport. Then once you're on the ground, you fold up the wings, drive it home, park it in your garage. And it works. After two years of an innovative design and construction process, the proof of concept made its public debut in 2008. Now like with anything that's really different from the status quo, it didn't always go so well testing that aircraft. And we discovered that it's a very good thing that, when you go home with something that's been broken, you've actually learned a lot more than when you managed to tick off all of your test objectives the first time through. Still, we very much wanted to see the aircraft that we'd all helped build in the air, off the ground, like it was supposed to be. And on our third high-speed testing deployment on a bitter cold morning in upstate New York, we got to do that for the first time. The picture behind me was snapped by the copilot in our chase aircraft just moments after the wheels got off the ground for the first time. And we were all very flattered to see that image become a symbol of accomplishing something that people had thought was impossible really the world over. The flight testing that followed that was as basic and low-risk as we could make it, but it still accomplished what we needed to to take the program to the next step and to gain the credibility that we needed within our eventual market, the general aviation community, and with the regulators that govern the use of design of aircraft, particularly in the States. The FAA, about a year ago, gave us an exemption for the Transition to allow us to have an additional 110 lbs. within the light sport aircraft category. Now that doesn't sound like a lot, but it's very important, because being able to deliver the Transition as a light sport aircraft makes it simpler for us to certify it, but it also makes it much easier for you to learn how to fly it. A sport pilot can be certificated in as little as 20 hours of flight time. And at 110 lbs., that's very important for solving the other side of the equation — driving. It turns out that driving, with its associated design implementation and regulatory hurdles, is actually a harder problem to solve than flying. For those of us that spend most of our lives on the ground, this may be counter-intuitive, but driving has potholes, cobblestones, pedestrians, other drivers and a rather long and detailed list of federal motor vehicle safety standards to contend with. Fortunately, necessity remains the mother of invention, and a lot of the design work that we're the most proud of with the aircraft came out of solving the unique problems of operating it on the ground — everything from a continuously-variable transmission and liquid-based cooling system that allows us to use an aircraft engine in stop-and-go traffic, to a custom-designed gearbox that powers either the propeller when you're flying or the wheels on the ground, to the automated wing-folding mechanism that we'll see in a moment, to crash safety features. We have a carbon fiber safety cage that protects the occupants for less than 10 percent of the weight of a traditional steel chassis in a car. Now this also, as good as it is, wasn't quite enough. The regulations for vehicles on the road weren't written with an airplane in mind. So we did need a little bit of support from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Now you may have seen in the news recently, they came through with us at the end of last month with a few special exemptions that will allow the Transition to be sold in the same category as SUVs and light trucks. As a multi-purpose passenger vehicle, it is now officially ""designed for occasional off-road use."" (Laughter) Now let's see it in action. You can see there the wings folded up just along the side of the plane. You're not powering the propeller, you're powering the wheels. And it is under seven feet tall, so it will fit in a standard construction garage. And that's the automated wing-folding mechanism. That's real time. You just push a few buttons in the cockpit, and the wings come out. Once they're fully deployed, there's a mechanical lock that goes into place, again, from inside the cockpit. And they're now fully capable of handling any of the loads you would see in flight — just like putting down your convertible top. And you're all thinking what your neighbors would think of seeing that. (Video) Test Pilot: Until the vehicle flies, 75 percent of your risk is that first flight. Radio: It actually flew. Yes. Radio 2: That was gorgeous. Radio: What did you think of that? That was beautiful from up here, I tell you. AMD: See, we're all exceedingly excited about that little bunny hop. And our test pilot gave us the best feedback you can get from a test pilot after a first flight, which was that it was ""remarkably unremarkable."" He would go onto tell us that the Transition had been the easiest airplane to land that he'd flown in his entire 30-year career as a test pilot. So despite making something that is seemingly revolutionary, we really focused on doing as little new as possible. We leverage a lot of technology from the state-of-the-art in general aviation and from automotive racing. When we do have to do something truly out-of-the-box, we use an incremental design, build, test, redesign cycle that lets us reduce risk in baby steps. Now since we started Terrafugia about 6 years ago, we've had a lot of those baby steps. We've gone from being three of us working in the basement at MIT while we were still in graduate school to about two-dozen of us working in an initial production facility outside of Boston. We've had to overcome challenges like keeping the weight below the light sport limit that I talked about, figuring out how to politely respond when a regulator tells you, ""But that won't fit through a toll booth with the wings extended — (Laughter) to all of the other associated durability and engineering issues that we talked about on the ground. Still, if everything goes to our satisfaction with the testing and construction of the two production prototypes that we're working on right now, those first deliveries to the, about a hundred, people who have reserved an airplane at this point should begin at the end of next year. The Transition will cost in line with other small airplanes. And I'm certainly not out to replace your Chevy, but I do think that the Transition should be your next airplane. Here's why. While nearly all of the commercial air travel in the world goes through a relatively small number of large hub airports, there is a huge underutilized resource out there. There are thousands of local airstrips that don't see nearly as many aircraft operations a day as they could. On average, there's one within 20 to 30 miles of wherever you are in the United States. The Transition gives you a safer, more convenient and more fun way of using this resource. For those of you who aren't yet pilots, there's four main reasons why those of us who are don't fly as much as we'd like to: the weather, primarily, cost, long door-to-door travel time and mobility at your destination. Now, bad weather comes in, just land, fold up the wings, drive home. Doesn't matter if it rains a little, you have a windshield wiper. Instead of paying to keep your airplane in a hanger, park it in your garage. And the unleaded automotive fuel that we use is both cheaper and better for the environment than traditional avgas. Door-to-door travel time is reduced, because now, instead of lugging bags, finding a parking space, taking off your shoes or pulling your airplane out of the hanger, you're now just spending that time getting to where you want to go. And mobility to your destination is clearly solved. Just fold up the wings and keep going. The Transition simultaneously expands our horizons while making the world a smaller, more accessible place. It also continues to be a fabulous adventure. I hope you'll each take a moment to think about how you could use something like this to give yourself more access to your own world, and to make your own travel more convenient and more fun. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to share it with you. (Applause)"	什麼是...飛行車?早在一百年前我們就想做了。回顧歷史曾經有不少嘗試,技術方面是有不少進展。但我們還是沒能達到...早上你經過這裡時所看到一個真正能天衣無縫的,將我們所習慣的二度空間與頭上的三度空間接合在一起的東西—不知道你們覺得怎麼, 我是蠻樂在其中的。 我們研究過去的一些實例發現...即便現在..有很多科技創新這是以前沒有的優勢—譬如我們有現代的複合材料...我們有夠省油的飛機引擎,有絕佳的功率比,我們有駕駛艙的航空電子設備,提供精準的駕駛資訊讓你坐在駕駛艙就可操控全局—先不去討論那些不同的問題面,我們發現即便我們這麼努力所得到的成績跟過去一百年來卻沒有甚麼兩樣!這我們可不想這樣!與其...設法要汽車在天上飛,不如應該是讓飛機在地上走。 結果出來了...特拉福騎變形機。一部兩人座單引擎飛機跟一般小飛機沒甚麼兩樣。你可以在當地的小機場起降。一但著陸後...機翼可以摺起來, 然後開回家!停在你家的車庫裡。而且真的能用!經過兩年的研發與製作,這個概念實踐..在2008年正式面世。 就像所有...那些前所未有的東西一樣,這部飛機也不是一路平順就產生的...不過這其實是好事,像是你搞了半天還是搞不定的時候...所學到的其實更多,比起一次就馬到成功...學到更多。儘管不容易,但無時無刻期待著我們的飛機能能按照原定計畫早日離地升空。在第三次的高速試飛時,是在紐約上州, 天氣寒風刺骨,計畫一樣如期舉行。背後這張是另一架柴斯飛機副機長所捕捉的鏡頭大概是在飛機騰空的那一剎那。看到此刻真是榮幸莫名,這幕象徵了一項成就,成就了別人所不敢想像的事情,讓人刮目相看。 隨後的測試,我們做到簡單又安全,不過照樣要完成一些當繼續發展下去時需要面對的各界支持與信賴,譬如商業市場、飛航界,以及監督單位等,特別是主官美國境內的飛航法規的單位。大概在一年前 FAA (美國聯邦航空總署)頒佈一個特許證給〈特拉福騎變形機〉,同意它在超重110磅的情況下。仍可並列在輕航機的的銷售分項裡。聽起來不怎麼樣, 不過意義重大,只要符合輕航機的規定後,特拉福騎變形機的駕照認證比較容易,同時也方便大家學習與使用。輕航機的駕照認證只需要20小時的飛行時數。另外, 以110磅可以解決另半邊的問題—操縱。 有趣的是,開車的設計應用及規定比飛行還難搞!對於我們這些一輩子都活在地面的人而言, 真是納悶不已!開車會碰到坑洞，石子路面,有陸上行人以及其他車輛駕駛,還有其他一大堆聯邦政府要駕駛人遵守的規定事項。所幸, 需要仍然是發明之母!一大堆應用在飛機上的傑出設計剛好可以拿來解決陸上行駛的問題—例子多不勝數, 從連續傳動設計,液態冷卻系統讓飛機能靈活自如的面對停停走走的路上交通,還有專用變速數箱可以推動螺旋槳, 或是陸上行的車輪,還有, 等一下就會看到摺疊式機翼各種安全設計。炭纖維的安全機艙能確保護乘客安全,重量比傳統鋼製汽車輕上百分之十。 這個雖然是不錯, 但還不夠好。陸上交通工具的相關規定根本沒想到 有一天會要在到飛機上。因此我們需要美國國家公路交通安全管理局的協助。最近你可能看到一則消息,大約是在上個月底,我們獲得幾項豁免特拉福騎變形機准以運動休旅車及小型貨車種類資格正式上市銷售。因為是多功能自客車,號稱是 「偶爾非道路使用」專門車種。 (笑聲) 我們來瞧一瞧。摺起來的機翼緊靠在兩機身兩側。引擎所推動的不是螺旋槳而是車輪。高度不到七呎,可以進得去標準車庫。這是機翼自動展開設計。這是即時狀態。座駕駛艙只要按下按鈕, 機翼就會拉開來。等全部展開之後,有個機械設計就可將它固定不動,同樣的, 也是從駕駛艙操作就行。然後, 就可以像其他飛機一樣處理一系列飛行的操作需求—有點像是把自己的敞篷車頂放下一樣。你只想著要是鄰居看到, 不知道他們會怎麼想。 試飛員：還沒真正飛起來之前首航有將近75%的風險。 它真的飛起來了 耶! 真是太棒了。 你感覺得怎麼樣?從上面看下來 真是美，不騙你。 看到吧! 我們為之瘋狂因為小兔子能跳了。我們的試飛員下了一個前所未有的評語,出乎意料外的...不意外!!他又說...特拉福騎變形機是他30年的試飛員生涯中降落最容易的機種。我們不只想做出革命性的產品而已,我們更想創造出更先進的東西。結合了最高檔的航空以及汽車競速等技術。而且真正的突破現狀,不論是在設計建構測試階段, 要採用增量式設計概念以減少剛起步就失敗的風險。 六年前開始研發特拉福騎變形機時,我們就採取穩扎穩打的策略。我們三個臭皮匠慢慢從麻省理工研究所的下地室開始,到後來大概有24人的時候轉到波斯頓郊區一個工廠。我們得迎戰各項挑戰,像是說我們得隨時注意機身重量以符合前面提到的輕航機標準,還要想辦法客氣的回答...檢覈單位的問題,「...可是你機翼不收起來, 就過不了收費亭啊...」(笑聲)還有一堆剛剛有提到關於耐用性與機械工程的問題,以及在地面行駛遇到的問題。所以, 如果一切都能穩穩當當,一步一步完成測試、製造工作現在這兩部正在生產的雛型,第一批出貨,包括現在已經預約的100多張訂單,預估會是明年年底開始。 特拉福騎變形機與一般輕航機的價格差不多。當然我們沒有要取代你的雪佛蘭。我真的認為特拉福騎變形機應該是你下一架飛機。我來說明一下。目前全球的商用航線都會集中在少數幾個轉運機場,還有很多資源沒有好好利用。其實有數以千個區域飛航跑道使用率根本不夠高,以美國來說，大概每方圓20-30英哩就有一個。特拉福騎變形機讓大家可以更方便更有趣的善用這項資源。 對於不懂飛行駕駛的人來說,歸納起來會有四個想駕駛,但是卻不願意駕駛飛機的理由:主要是天氣,花錢, 花時間m還有抵達目的地之後又有交通問題。好了，現在遇到天氣不好,乾脆就降落，機翼收起來，直接開回家。下點雨是沒關係, 反正有雨刷。從此, 也不用再花錢租停機坪,就直接停在家裡車庫。加的又是一般的無鉛汽油比起航空汽油來既便宜又環保。地面交通時間也省下來了,因為 再也不用忙著掛行李找停車位,脫鞋檢查或是要先去停機坪把飛機開出來,你只花了要去到目的地的時間。到達目的地以後交通也解決了。就把機翼收起來繼續開就好了。 特拉福騎變形機開拓我們的視野,把世界變更小更可及處處都有探險的驚喜。希望每一個人都能用點時間想一下如何好好的利用它來開拓更多屬於自己的世界,讓每一次的旅行都是輕鬆愉快,生趣盎然。 感謝大家讓我能借這個機會與你分享! (掌聲)
