Talk	en	zh-tw
annie_lennox_why_i_am_an_hiv_aids_activist	"I'm going to share with you the story as to how I have become an HIV/AIDS campaigner. And this is the name of my campaign: SING Campaign. In November of 2003, I was invited to take part in the launch of Nelson Mandela's 46664 Foundation — that is his HIV/AIDS foundation. And 46664 is the number that Mandela had when he was imprisoned in Robben Island. And that's me with Youssou N'Dour, onstage, having the time of my life. The next day, all the artists were invited to join Mandela in Robben Island, where he was going to give a conference to the world's press, standing in front of his former prison cell. You can see the bars of the window there. It was quite a momentous occasion for all of us. In that moment in time, Mandela told the world's press that there was a virtual genocide taking place in his country; that post-apartheid Rainbow Nation, a thousand people were dying on a daily basis and that the front line victims, the most vulnerable of all, were women and children. This was a huge impact on my mind, because I am a woman and I am a mother, and I hadn't realized that the HIV/AIDS pandemic was directly affecting women in such a way. And so I committed — when I left South Africa, when I left Capetown, I told myself, ""This is going to be something that I have to talk about. I have to serve."" And so, subsequently I participated in every single 46664 event that I could take part in and gave news conferences, interviews, talking and using my platform as a musician, with my commitment to Mandela — out of respect for the tremendous, unbelievable work that he had done. Everyone in the world respects Nelson Mandela, everyone reveres Nelson Mandela. But do they all know about what has been taking place in South Africa, his country, the country that had one of the highest incidents of transmission of the virus? I think that if I went out into the street now and I told people what was happening there, they would be shocked. I was very, very fortunate a couple of years later to have met Zackie Achmat, the founder of Treatment Action Campaign, an incredible campaigner and activist. I met him at a 46664 event. He was wearing a t-shirt like the one I wear now. This is a tool — this tells you I am in solidarity with people who have HIV, people who are living with HIV. And in a way because of the stigma, by wearing this t-shirt I say, ""Yes, we can talk about this issue. It doesn't have to be in the closet."" I became a member of Treatment Action Campaign and I'm very proud to be a member of that incredible organization. It's a grassroots campaign with 80 percent membership being women, most of whom are HIV-positive. They work in the field. They have tremendous outreach to the people who are living directly with the effects of the virus. They have education programs. They bring out the issues of stigma. It's quite extraordinary what they do. And yes, my SING Campaign has supported Treatment Action Campaign in the way that I have tried to raise awareness and to try to also raise funds. A lot of the funding that I have managed to raise has gone directly to Treatment Action Campaign and the incredible work that they do, and are still continuing to do in South Africa. So this is my SING Campaign. SING Campaign is basically just me and about three or four wonderful people who help to support me. I've traveled all over the world in the last two and a half years — I went to about 12 different countries. Here I am in Oslo in Norway, getting a nice, fat check; singing in Hong Kong, trying to get people to raise money. In Johannesburg, I had the opportunity to play to a mainly white, middle-class South African audience who ended up in tears because I use film clips that really touch the heart, the whole nature, of this terrible tragedy that is taking place, that people are tending to avoid, because they are fatigued, and they really don't quite know what the solutions are. Aaron Motsoaledi, the current health minister, attended that concert and I had an opportunity to meet with him, and he gave his absolute commitment to try to making a change, which is absolutely necessary. This is in the Scottish Parliament. I've subsequently become an envoy for Scotland and HIV. And I was showing them my experiences and trying to, again, raise awareness. And once again, in Edinburgh with the wonderful African Children's Choir who I simply adore. And it's children like this, many of whom have been orphaned because of their family being affected by the AIDS virus. I'm sitting here in New York with Michel Sidibe — he's the director of UNAIDS. And I'm very honored by the fact that Michel invited me, only a few months ago, to become a UNAIDS ambassador. And in this way, I've been strengthening my platform and broadening my outreach. The message that UNAIDS are currently sending out to the world is that we would like to see the virtual elimination of the transmission of the virus from mother to child by 2015. It's a very ambitious goal but we believe it can be achieved with political will. This can happen. And here I am with a pregnant woman, who is HIV positive and we're smiling, both of us are smiling, because we're very confident, because we know that that young woman is receiving treatment so her life can be extended to take care of the baby she's about to give birth to. And her baby will receive PMTCT, which will mean that that baby can be born free of the virus. Now that is prevention at the very beginning of life. It's one way to start looking at intervention with the AIDS pandemic. Now, I just would like to finish off to tell you the little story about Avelile. This is Avelile — she goes with me wherever I go. I tell her story to everyone because she represents one of millions of HIV/AIDS orphans. Avelile's mother had HIV virus — she died from AIDS-related illness. Avelile had the virus, she was born with the virus. And here she is at seven years old, weighing no more than a one year-old baby. At this point in her life, she's suffering with full-blown AIDS and had pneumonia. We met her in a hospital in the Eastern Cape and spent a whole afternoon with her — an adorable child. The doctors and nurses were phenomenal. They put her on very special nutritious diet and took great care of her. And we didn't know when we left the hospital — because we filmed her story — we didn't know if she was going to survive. So, it was obviously — it was a very emotional encounter and left us feeling very resonant with this direct experience, this one child, you know, that story. Five months later, we went back to South Africa to meet Avelile again. And I'm getting — the hairs on my — I don't know if you can see the hairs on my arms. They're standing up because I know what I'm going to show you. This is the transformation that took place. Isn't it extraordinary? (Applause) That round of applause is actually for the doctors and nurses of the hospital who took care of Avelile. And I take it that you appreciate that kind of transformation. So, I would like to say to you, each one in the audience, if you feel that every mother and every child in the world has the right to have access to good nutrition and good medical care, and you believe that the Millennium Development Goals, specifically five and six, should be absolutely committed to by all governments around the world — especially in sub-Saharan Africa — could you please stand up. I think that's fair to say, it's almost everyone in the hall. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我今天要跟你們分享這個故事我要告訴你們爲什麽我要從事愛滋病防治運動這是我領導的活動名稱：SING 活動。2003年11月我受邀參加曼德拉46664基金會的創會活動。這是一個愛滋病防治基金會。46664是當時曼德拉在羅本島被關的編號。照片中是我和Youssou N'Dour 在舞臺上這是我生命中最美好的時光之一隔天，所有的表演者都受邀在羅本島和曼德拉見面曼德拉要在那裏跟國際媒體開記者會地點就在他之前的牢房前。你可以看到他窗戶前的鐵窗。這對大家來説都是重要的一刻。就在這歷史的一刻曼德拉告訴國際媒體說在他的國家裏有一個集體的滅種屠殺正在發生在這種族隔離浩劫後的彩虹國度每天有一千人死去其中首當其衝的最脆弱的一群是婦女和小孩。 這在我心裏產生了相當大的衝擊因爲，我既是個婦女，也是媽媽。我那時還沒能了解愛滋病能如此直接地使婦女受害。所以我給自己許了個承諾在離開南非，開普敦的時候我告訴自己說我要告訴大家這個真相我要在這上面作一些事所以，接下來我盡可能地參加了每個46664基金會的活動我也舉辦記者會給專訪用我音樂人的身份爲的是我對曼德拉的承諾和對他完成的偉大的功業的尊敬。世上的每人都很尊重曼德拉大家都他都很崇敬。但是大家都知道在南非在曼德拉的國家裏愛滋病的傳染率是全世界最高的嗎？我想，要是我現在走到路上告訴大家南非的慘狀大家都會嚇一跳吧 我，很幸運地，幾年以後遇到了Zackie Achmat“治療（Treatment Action ）” 活動的創辦人他是個很棒的遊説家和社會運動領導我在一個46664的活動上遇到他他那時穿著跟我這件一樣的 T 裇這是一個工具這告訴你我和愛滋病人、跟愛滋病毒共存的人站在同一陣綫。因爲愛滋病已被惡名化，藉著這件 T 裇我要表達 “是的，我們可以公開討論這個議題”這不是見不得人的事。我也變成“治療（Treatment Action ）” 活動的一員我覺得很驕傲能成爲這個不平凡組織的一員。這是個草根性的組織80%的會員都是婦女大部分的人都是愛滋病帶原者。他們在社會基層工作他們與直接受到愛滋病毒影響的人能有密切的接觸。他們有一系列的教育課程他們主動談及這個惡名禁忌他們做了很多不凡的貢獻我領導的SING活動也支持了Treatment Action 活動我試者喚起人們的認知也試著替他們募款。很多我募到的款直接都捐給了這個組織和資助他們，在南非，仍持續著的不凡的活動。 這就是我的SING活動。SING 基本上就是我和另外三四個支持我的了不起的人。我走遍這個世界在過去的兩年半我去了12個國家我在挪威的奧斯陸去領一筆大的捐款我在香港唱歌，試著讓人們多捐一點錢。在約翰尼斯堡，我有機會對一群大部分是白人的中產階級演唱他們最後都熱淚盈眶因爲我用了一些影片真的感動到他們的心讓他們看看這個這正在上演的悲劇這個大家都不想去看的事實因爲大家都累了沒有人知道解答在哪裏。現任的衛生部長 Aaron Motsoaledi也在那個演唱會裏我有機會跟他碰面他也給了他的承諾他要試著做一些改變這改變是絕對必要的。這是蘇格蘭議會我後來也變成蘇格蘭的愛滋特使我跟他們分享了我的經驗也再一次地喚起大家的意識在愛丁堡跟這個美妙的非洲兒童合唱團這樣天真無邪的兒童因爲愛滋病毒奪取了他們的父母很多都變成了孤兒。 我在紐約跟Michel Sidibe在一起他是聯合國愛滋病計劃（UNAIDS）的主席在幾個月以前Michel 邀請我成爲聯合國愛滋病計劃的大使這使我深感榮耀。藉由這項新的身份，更能使我的觸角更廣泛。聯合國愛滋病計劃現在要傳遞的訊息是：我們希望能夠在2015年以前消除愛滋病垂直的母子傳染。這是個很有野心的目標但是我們相信在政治決策上有共識的話這是可能發生的。 這是我跟一個懷孕的媽媽她是愛滋病帶原者但是我們都面帶自信的微笑，因爲我們知道這個媽媽接受了愛滋病治療所以她的生命可以沿續她可以照顧即將出世的嬰兒她的嬰兒也會接受PMTCT療程這表示說她的嬰兒可以不受愛滋病毒的感染。現在這是在生命起點就開始的預防。這是另一種角度來看愛滋病的預防。 最後，我要再告訴你們一個有關 Avelile 小故事來結束我的演講。這就是 Avelile她一直跟我在一起我到處跟人說她的故事因爲她正代表了幾百萬個愛滋孤兒的其中之一。Avelile 的媽媽是愛滋病帶原者她死於愛滋病倂發的疾病Avelile 也是病毒帶原者她一出世就帶病毒。在這裡她七歲卻只有一歲嬰兒的體重她在這時正受著愛滋病病發的折磨還有肺炎。我們在東開普省的醫院發現她我們跟她相處了一個下午，她實在很可愛醫生和護士也都很另人敬佩他們給她特別的飲食細心地照顧她我們拍了她的影片離開醫院的時候，沒有人知道她能不能活下來所以，這實在是十分令人感動的相遇遇到這個小孩，這麽直接的經驗讓我們每個人的心裏都產生極大的共鳴這個孩子，這個故事。五個月以後我們又回到南非去看 Avelile我手臂上的毛都竪起來了不知道你能不能看到我有這樣的反應因爲我知道下一張照片裏你將看到的轉變這不是很棒嗎？ （掌聲） 現場的這些掌聲應該要獻給醫院裏照顧她的醫生和護士。我相信在場的人也都喜歡這種轉變。所以，我想問你們在場的每一位如果，你覺得世上的每個媽媽和小孩都有權利得到好的營養、醫藥、照顧你也認同千禧年發展計劃裏特別是第五、六項要被世上所有的政府所承諾、實踐的話尤其是南撒哈拉非洲的國家可以請你站起來嗎？我想，我們可以說現場幾乎每一個人都站起來了。 十分感謝大家 （掌聲）
