Talk	en	zh-tw
annmarie_thomas_squishy_circuits	I'm a huge believer in hands-on education. But you have to have the right tools. If I'm going to teach my daughter about electronics, I'm not going to give her a soldering iron. And similarly, she finds prototyping boards really frustrating for her little hands. So my wonderful student Sam and I decided to look at the most tangible thing we could think of: Play-Doh. And so we spent a summer looking at different Play-Doh recipes. And these recipes probably look really familiar to any of you who have made homemade play-dough — pretty standard ingredients you probably have in your kitchen. We have two favorite recipes — one that has these ingredients and a second that had sugar instead of salt. And they're great. We can make great little sculptures with these. But the really cool thing about them is when we put them together. You see that really salty Play-Doh? Well, it conducts electricity. And this is nothing new. It turns out that regular Play-Doh that you buy at the store conducts electricity, and high school physics teachers have used that for years. But our homemade play-dough actually has half the resistance of commercial Play-Doh. And that sugar dough? Well it's 150 times more resistant to electric current than that salt dough. So what does that mean? Well it means if you them together you suddenly have circuits — circuits that the most creative, tiny, little hands can build on their own. (Applause) And so I want to do a little demo for you. So if I take this salt dough, again, it's like the play-dough you probably made as kids, and I plug it in — it's a two-lead battery pack, simple battery pack, you can buy them at Radio Shack and pretty much anywhere else — we can actually then light things up. But if any of you have studied electrical engineering, we can also create a short circuit. If I push these together, the light turns off. Right, the current wants to run through the play-dough, not through that LED. If I separate them again, I have some light. Well now if I take that sugar dough, the sugar dough doesn't want to conduct electricity. It's like a wall to the electricity. If I place that between, now all the dough is touching, but if I stick that light back in, I have light. In fact, I could even add some movement to my sculptures. If I want a spinning tail, let's grab a motor, put some play-dough on it, stick it on and we have spinning. (Applause) And once you have the basics, we can make a slightly more complicated circuit. We call this our sushi circuit. It's very popular with kids. I plug in again the power to it. And now I can start talking about parallel and series circuits. I can start plugging in lots of lights. And we can start talking about things like electrical load. What happens if I put in lots of lights and then add a motor? It'll dim. We can even add microprocessors and have this as an input and create squishy sound music that we've done. You could do parallel and series circuits for kids using this. So this is all in your home kitchen. We've actually tried to turn it into an electrical engineering lab. We have a website, it's all there. These are the home recipes. We've got some videos. You can make them yourselves. And it's been really fun since we put them up to see where these have gone. We've had a mom in Utah who used them with her kids, to a science researcher in the U.K., and curriculum developers in Hawaii. So I would encourage you all to grab some Play-Doh, grab some salt, grab some sugar and start playing. We don't usually think of our kitchen as an electrical engineering lab or little kids as circuit designers, but maybe we should. Have fun. Thank you. (Applause)	我非常相信親自動手做的學習方式。但你需要正確的工具。如果我要教我女兒電學，我不會給他洛鐵。同樣的，如果她用原型板對她的小手來說是非常麻煩的。所以我的學生山姆和我決定要用我們能想到最實際的東西：黏土。所以我們花了一個暑假來找各種黏土的做法。而這些做法或許對那些曾經做過自製黏土的人會覺得很熟悉，這些標準原料或許是你在廚房就已經有的。我們有兩個最喜歡的做法：一個有這些原料另一個將鹽改成糖。而且他們很棒。我們可以做這些很棒的小雕塑品。 但更酷的是如果你把他們放在一起，你看到那個很鹹的黏土，它會導電。而且這不是新發現。其實市售的黏土也可以導電，且中學物理老師已經用這個好幾年了。但我們這些自製的黏土事實上電阻是市售的一半。那個糖黏土呢？它的電阻比鹽黏土大一百五十倍。這是什麼意思呢？意思是如果你把它們放在一起你就有了電路—一個很有創造力的小小手可以自行完成的電路。 （掌聲） 所以我要做個小示範。如果我拿這個鹽黏土—它跟你們小時候玩過的差不多—然後我將它通電—這是個二鉛電池組，很簡單的電池組—你可以在Radio Shack或是其他很多地方都買的到—我們真的可以讓燈亮起來。但如果在座各位有學電路工程，我們也可以創造短路。如果我把這些放在一起，燈會暗掉。好，電路會想要通過黏土而不是LED燈。如果我把它們分開，我又有燈光了。現在如果我拿那糖黏土，糖黏土不想要傳導電流，有點像是擋住電流的牆壁。如果我把它放在中間，現在所有黏土都有接觸，但當我把燈放回去的時候，燈會亮。事實上，我還可以在我的雕塑品中加入一些動作。如果我想要一條旋轉尾巴，我們可以拿一個馬達，覆上一些黏土，黏上去，我們就可以讓它轉了。 （掌聲） 當你會這些基本的以後，我們就可以做複雜的電路了。我們叫這個壽司電路，非常受孩子們喜愛。我將它插電。現在我可以探討串聯和並聯。我可以放進很多個燈泡。我們可以開始探討電負載量。當我放進很多燈泡又放進馬達時會怎麼樣？燈泡會變暗。我們也可以放入微處理器，用這個當作輸入然後創造模湖的音效。你可以與孩子用這個做出並連和電路組合。 所以這些都是你廚房裡有的東西。我們試著將它改造成電機工程實驗室。我們有個網站，所有東西都在上面。這些是家庭中製作的方法。我們有些影片。你們也可以自己做。很有趣的是我們可以知道這個計畫影響了什麼。有個在猶他的媽媽和他的孩子用這個做了一個在英國的科學實驗，夏威夷的教材研究也用了這個。 所以我鼓勵你們拿起一些黏土，拿一些鹽、一些糖，然後開始玩。我們不常把廚房當作電機實驗室，也不會把小朋友想成電路設計師，但或許我們應該要這麼想。 好好玩！謝謝。 （掌聲）
