Talk	en	zh-tw
anote_tong_my_country_will_be_underwater_soon_unless_we_work_together	"Chris Anderson: Perhaps we could start by just telling us about your country. It's three dots there on the globe. Those dots are pretty huge. I think each one is about the size of California. Tell us about Kiribati. Anote Tong: Well, let me first begin by saying how deeply grateful I am for this opportunity to share my story with people who do care. I think I've been sharing my story with a lot of people who don't care too much. But Kiribati is comprised of three groups of islands: the Gilbert Group on the west, we have the Phoenix Islands in the middle, and the Line Islands in the east. And quite frankly, Kiribati is perhaps the only country that is actually in the four corners of the world, because we are in the Northern Hemisphere, in the Southern Hemisphere, and also in the east and the west of the International Date Line. These islands are entirely made up of coral atolls, and on average about two meters above sea level. And so this is what we have. Usually not more than two kilometers in width. And so, on many occasions, I've been asked by people, ""You know, you're suffering, why don't you move back?"" They don't understand. They have no concept of what it is that's involved. With the rising sea, they say, ""Well, you can move back."" And so this is what I tell them. If we move back, we will fall off on the other side of the ocean. OK? But these are the kinds of issues that people don't understand. CA: So certainly this is just a picture of fragility there. When was it that you yourself realized that there might be impending peril for your country? AT: Well, the story of climate change has been one that has been going on for quite a number of decades. And when I came into office in 2003, I began talking about climate change at the United Nations General Assembly, but not with so much passion, because then there was still this controversy among the scientists whether it was human-induced, whether it was real or it wasn't. But I think that that debate was fairly much concluded in 2007 with the Fourth Assessment Report of the IPCC, which made a categorical statement that it is real, it's human-induced, and it's predicting some very serious scenarios for countries like mine. And so that's when I got very serious. In the past, I talked about it. We were worried. But when the scenarios, the predictions came in 2007, it became a real issue for us. CA: Now, those predictions are, I think, that by 2100, sea levels are forecast to rise perhaps three feet. There's scenarios where it's higher than that, for sure, but what would you say to a skeptic who said, ""What's three feet? You're on average six feet above sea level. What's the problem?"" AT: Well, I think it's got to be understood that a marginal rise in sea level would mean a loss of a lot of land, because much of the land is low. And quite apart from that, we are getting the swells at the moment. So it's not about getting two feet. I think what many people do not understand is they think climate change is something that is happening in the future. Well, we're at the very bottom end of the spectrum. It's already with us. We have communities who already have been dislocated. They have had to move, and every parliament session, I'm getting complaints from different communities asking for assistance to build seawalls, to see what we can do about the freshwater lens because it's being destroyed, and so in my trips to the different islands, I'm seeing evidence of communities which are now having to cope with the loss of food crops, the contamination of the water lenses, and I see these communities perhaps leaving, having to relocate, within five to 10 years. CA: And then, I think the country suffered its first cyclone, and this is connected, yes? What happened here? AT: Well, we're on the equator, and I'm sure many of you understand that when you're on the equator, it's supposed to be in the doldrums. We're not supposed to get the cyclones. We create them, and then we send them either north or south. (Laughter) But they aren't supposed to come back. But for the first time, at the beginning of this year, the Cyclone Pam, which destroyed Vanuatu, and in the process, the very edges of it actually touched our two southernmost islands, and all of Tuvalu was underwater when Hurricane Pam struck. But for our two southernmost islands, we had waves come over half the island, and so this has never happened before. It's a new experience. And I've just come back from my own constituency, and I've seen these beautiful trees which had been there for decades, they've been totally destroyed. So this is what's happening, but when we talk about the rising sea level, we think it's something that happens gradually. It comes with the winds, it comes with the swells, and so they can be magnified, but what we are beginning to witness is the change in the weather pattern, which is perhaps the more urgent challenge that we will face sooner than perhaps the rising sea level. CA: So the country is already seeing effects now. As you look forward, what are your options as a country, as a nation? AT: Well, I've been telling this story every year. I think I visit a number of — I've been traveling the world to try and get people to understand. We have a plan, we think we have a plan. And on one occasion, I think I spoke in Geneva and there was a gentleman who was interviewing me on something like this, and I said, ""We are looking at floating islands,"" and he thought it was funny, but somebody said, ""No, this is not funny. These people are looking for solutions."" And so I have been looking at floating islands. The Japanese are interested in building floating islands. But, as a country, we have made a commitment that no matter what happens, we will try as much as possible to stay and continue to exist as a nation. What that will take, it's going to be something quite significant, very, very substantial. Either we live on floating islands, or we have to build up the islands to continue to stay out of the water as the sea level rises and as the storms get more severe. But even that, it's going to be very, very difficult to get the kind of resourcing that we would need. CA: And then the only recourse is some form of forced migration. AT: Well, we are also looking at that because in the event that nothing comes forward from the international community, we are preparing, we don't want to be caught like what's happening in Europe. OK? We don't want to mass migrate at some point in time. We want to be able to give the people the choice today, those who choose and want to do that, to migrate. We don't want something to happen that they are forced to migrate without having been prepared to do so. Of course, our culture is very different, our society is very different, and once we migrate into a different environment, a different culture, there's a whole lot of adjustments that are required. CA: Well, there's forced migration in your country's past, and I think just this week, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, you visited these people. What happened here? What's the story here? AT: Yes, and I'm sorry, I think somebody was asking why we were sneaking off to visit that place. I had a very good reason, because we have a community of Kiribati people living in that part of the Solomon Islands, but these were people who were relocated from the Phoenix Islands, in fact, in the 1960s. There was serious drought, and the people could not continue to live on the island, and so they were moved to live here in the Solomon Islands. And so yesterday it was very interesting to meet with these people. They didn't know who I was. They hadn't heard of me. Some of them later recognized me, but I think they were very happy. Later they really wanted to have the opportunity to welcome me formally. But I think what I saw yesterday was very interesting because here I see our people. I spoke in our language, and of course they spoke back, they replied, but their accent, they are beginning not to be able to speak Kiribati properly. I saw them, there was this lady with red teeth. She was chewing betel nuts, and it's not something we do in Kiribati. We don't chew betel nuts. I met also a family who have married the local people here, and so this is what is happening. As you go into another community, there are bound to be changes. There is bound to be a certain loss of identity, and this is what we will be looking for in the future if and when we do migrate. CA: It must have been just an extraordinarily emotional day because of these questions about identity, the joy of seeing you and perhaps an emphasized sense of what they had lost. And it's very inspiring to hear you say you're going to fight to the end to try to preserve the nation in a location. AT: This is our wish. Nobody wants ever to leave their home, and so it's been a very difficult decision for me. As a leader, you don't make plans to leave your island, your home, and so I've been asked on a number of occasions, ""So how do you feel?"" And it doesn't feel good at all. It's an emotional thing, and I've tried to live with it, and I know that on occasions, I'm accused of not trying to solve the problem because I can't solve the problem. It's something that's got to be done collectively. Climate change is a global phenomenon, and as I've often argued, unfortunately, the countries, when we come to the United Nations — I was in a meeting with the Pacific Island Forum countries where Australia and New Zealand are also members, and we had an argument. There was a bit of a story in the news because they were arguing that to cut emissions, it would be something that they're unable to do because it would affect the industries. And so here I was saying, OK, I hear you, I understand what you're saying, but try also to understand what I'm saying because if you do not cut your emissions, then our survival is on the line. And so it's a matter for you to weigh this, these moral issues. It's about industry as opposed to the survival of a people. CA: You know, I ask you yesterday what made you angry, and you said, ""I don't get angry."" But then you paused. I think this made you angry. AT: I'd refer you to my earlier statement at the United Nations. I was very angry, very frustrated and then depressed. There was a sense of futility that we are fighting a fight that we have no hope of winning. I had to change my approach. I had to become more reasonable because I thought people would listen to somebody who was rational, but I remain radically rational, whatever that is. (Laughter) CA: Now, a core part of your nation's identity is fishing. I think you said pretty much everyone is involved in fishing in some way. AT: Well, we eat fish every day, every day, and I think there is no doubt that our rate of consumption of fish is perhaps the highest in the world. We don't have a lot of livestock, so it's fish that we depend on. CA: So you're dependent on fish, both at the local level and for the revenues that the country receives from the global fishing business for tuna, and yet despite that, a few years ago you took a very radical step. Can you tell us about that? I think something happened right here in the Phoenix Islands. AT: Let me give some of the background of what fish means for us. We have one of the largest tuna fisheries remaining in the world. In the Pacific, I think we own something like 60 percent of the remaining tuna fisheries, and it remains relatively healthy for some species, but not all. And Kiribati is one of the three major resource owners, tuna resource owners. And at the moment, we have been getting something like 80 to 90 percent of our revenue from access fees, license fees. CA: Of your national revenue. AT: National revenue, which drives everything that we do in governments, hospitals, schools and what have you. But we decided to close this, and it was a very difficult decision. I can assure you, politically, locally, it was not easy, but I was convinced that we had to do this in order to ensure that the fishery remains sustainable. There had been some indications that some of the species, in particular the bigeye, was under serious threat. The yellowfin was also heavily fished. Skipjack remains healthy. And so we had to do something like that, and so that was the reason I did that. Another reason why I did that was because I had been asking the international community that in order to deal with climate change, in order to fight climate change, there has got to be sacrifice, there has got to be commitment. So in asking the international community to make a sacrifice, I thought we ourselves need to make that sacrifice. And so we made the sacrifice. And forgoing commercial fishing in the Phoenix Islands protected area would mean a loss of revenue. We are still trying to assess what that loss would be because we actually closed it off at the beginning of this year, and so we will see by the end of this year what it means in terms of the lost revenue. CA: So there's so many things playing into this. On the one hand, it may prompt healthier fisheries. I mean, how much are you able to move the price up that you charge for the remaining areas? AT: The negotiations have been very difficult, but we have managed to raise the cost of a vessel day. For any vessel to come in to fish for a day, we have raised the fee from — it was $6,000 and $8,000, now to $10,000, $12,000 per vessel day. And so there's been that significant increase. But at the same time, what's important to note is, whereas in the past these fishing boats might be fishing in a day and maybe catch 10 tons, now they're catching maybe 100 tons because they've become so efficient. And so we've got to respond likewise. We've got to be very, very careful because the technology has so improved. There was a time when the Brazilian fleet moved from the Atlantic to the Pacific. They couldn't. They started experimenting if they could, per se. But now they've got ways of doing it, and they've become so efficient. CA: Can you give us a sense of what it's like in those negotiations? Because you're up against companies that have hundreds of millions of dollars at stake, essentially. How do you hold the line? Is there any advice you can give to other leaders who are dealing with the same companies about how to get the most for your country, get the most for the fish? What advice would you give? AT: Well, I think we focus too often on licensing in order to get the rate of return, because what we are getting from license fees is about 10 percent of the landed value of the catch on the side of the wharf, not in the retail shops. And we only get about 10 percent. What we have been trying to do over the years is actually to increase our participation in the industry, in the harvesting, in the processing, and eventually, hopefully, the marketing. They're not easy to penetrate, but we are working towards that, and yes, the answer would be to enhance. In order to increase our rate of return, we have to become more involved. And so we've started doing that, and we have to restructure the industry. We've got to tell these people that the world has changed. Now we want to produce the fish ourselves. CA: And meanwhile, for your local fishermen, they are still able to fish, but what is business like for them? Is it getting harder? Are the waters depleted? Or is that being run on a sustainable basis? AT: For the artisanal fishery, we do not participate in the commercial fishing activity except only to supply the domestic market. The tuna fishery is really entirely for the foreign market, mostly here in the US, Europe, Japan. So I am a fisherman, very much, and I used to be able to catch yellowfin. Now it's very, very rare to be able to catch yellowfin because they are being lifted out of the water by the hundreds of tons by these purse seiners. CA: So here's a couple of beautiful girls from your country. I mean, as you think about their future, what message would you have for them and what message would you have for the world? AT: Well, I've been telling the world that we really have to do something about what is happening to the climate because for us, it's about the future of these children. I have 12 grandchildren, at least. I think I have 12, my wife knows. (Laughter) And I think I have eight children. It's about their future. Every day I see my grandchildren, about the same age as these young girls, and I do wonder, and I get angry sometimes, yes I do. I wonder what is to become of them. And so it's about them that we should be telling everybody, that it's not about their own national interest, because climate change, regrettably, unfortunately, is viewed by many countries as a national problem. It's not. And this is the argument we got into recently with our partners, the Australians and New Zealanders, because they said, ""We can't cut any more."" This is what one of the leaders, the Australian leader, said, that we've done our part, we are cutting back. I said, What about the rest? Why don't you keep it? If you could keep the rest of your emissions within your boundaries, within your borders, we'd have no question. You can go ahead as much as you like. But unfortunately, you're sending it our way, and it's affecting the future of our children. And so surely I think that is the heart of the problem of climate change today. We will be meeting in Paris at the end of this year, but until we can think of this as a global phenomenon, because we create it, individually, as nations, but it affects everybody else, and yet, we refuse to do anything about it, and we deal with it as a national problem, which it is not — it is a global issue, and it's got to be dealt with collectively. CA: People are incredibly bad at responding to graphs and numbers, and we shut our minds to it. Somehow, to people, we're slightly better at responding to that sometimes. And it seems like it's very possible that your nation, despite, actually because of the intense problems you face, you may yet be the warning light to the world that shines most visibly, most powerfully. I just want to thank you,  I'm sure, on behalf of all of us, for your extraordinary leadership and for being here. Mr. President, thank you so much. AT: Thank you. (Applause)"	克里斯安德森：或許我們可以從介紹你的國家開始。就是地球上的那三個點。這些點還相當大。我想每個點都相當於加州大。跟我們介紹一下吉里巴斯。 湯安諾：首先容我表達深深的感謝之意，能有機會對真正關心的人分享我的故事。我想我已經對太多不太關心的人說過我的故事。吉里巴斯由三個群島組成：西邊的吉爾伯特群島，中間的鳳凰群島，和東邊的萊恩群島。坦白說，吉里巴斯或許是唯一佔據世界四個角落的國家，因為我們不但坐落在北半球、南半球，也在國際換日線的東西兩邊。這些島嶼完全由珊瑚環礁組成，平均高於海平面二公尺。這就是我們的情況。通常不會超過兩公里寬。所以，很多時候大家問我：「你們這麼痛苦，為什麼你們不往內搬？」他們不懂。他們一點都沒概念這牽涉什麼。隨著海平面上升，他們說：「你們可以往內搬。」這是我對他們的回答。如果我們往內搬，會從另一邊掉到海裡去，好嗎？這些就是大家都不了解的問題。 克：這張照片無疑顯示出你們的脆弱。你從什麼時候領悟到你的國家或許有危險逼近？ 湯：氣候變遷的情況已經流傳了幾十年。我於 2003 年當選總統時，開始在聯合國大會談論氣候變遷，但是當時我並沒有太多熱情，因為那時候科學界對此仍然存有歧見，到底是不是人為，到底是真還是假。但是我想在 2007 年爭議大抵結束，《政府間氣候變化專門委員會第四次評估報告》發表明確聲明，指出此為真實、人為的情況，並預測會有非常嚴重的情況發生在像我們這樣的國家。那時我才開始認真起來。過去我只是談論它。我們很擔心。但在 2007 年發布預測情況時，這變成我們真正的問題。 克：我想現在的預測是到了 2100 年，海平面可能會升高三呎。還有一些預測說會比那還高，但你要怎麼對懷疑論者解釋？他們說：「三呎又怎麼樣？你們平均高於海平面六呎，哪裡有問題？」 湯：我想大家都必須了解沿岸的海平面上升，代表你會失去很多土地，因為通常沿海的土地都很低。就算撇開這個不談，我們現在也有湧浪，所以這不僅僅是升高兩呎而已。我想很多人不瞭解，他們以為氣候變遷是未來的事。但是我們最先受到影響。它已經影響了我們。我們已經有社區必須搬離。他們必須搬遷，每一次議會開議期間，我都聽到來自不同社區的抱怨，要求援助蓋海堤，看我們能不能拯救淡水透鏡體，因為這些都被破壞了，所以每次我到不同的島上，我都看到社區現在必須面對糧食作物損失，及淡水透鏡體遭受汙染的證據，我也看到這些社區也許必須離開、遷移，在五到十年內。 克：之前這個國家首次遭到氣旋侵襲，這些都有關連，對嗎？怎麼會發生這種事？ 湯：我們位於赤道上，我確信在座很多人瞭解如果你位於赤道，就應該是在赤道無風帶上。我們不應該有氣旋。應該是我們產生氣旋，然後往北邊南邊送。 （笑聲） 但是它們不該跑回來。但這是破天荒頭一遭，在今年年初，熱帶氣旋帕姆摧毀了萬那杜，這個氣旋肆虐期間，邊緣其實掃過我們最南端的兩個島嶼，帕姆颶風把整個吐瓦魯都淹沒了。但是我們兩個最南端的島嶼，超過一半的島被巨浪吞噬，這真是前所未見。這是全新的經驗。我才剛從我的選區回來，我看到一些漂亮的樹過去幾十年都屹立不搖，卻被徹底摧毀。所以這就是現況，但是當我們談海平面上升，我們都以為這是慢慢發生的事。它會隨著風來，它會隨著湧浪來，所以會有放大的現象，但是我們開始目睹天氣型態改變，這也許是更緊急的挑戰，我們很快就要面對，可能比海平面上升更緊急。 克：所以這個國家現在已經開始看到效應。往未來看，你們身為一個國家有什麼樣的選擇？ 湯：我每年都要說這個故事。我想我去過很多——我拜訪全世界，試著讓大家瞭解情況。我們有個計畫，我們認為我們有個計畫。有一次我在日內瓦演說，有位先生訪問我，就像現在這樣，我說：「我們想做漂浮島。」他覺得很好笑，但是有個人說：「這一點都不好笑，這些人在找解決方案。」所以我在研究漂浮島。日本對建造漂浮島很有興趣。 但是，身為一個國家，我們做出了承諾，無論發生什麼事，我們都要盡可能留在島上，繼續以國家存在。但是這個代價將會非常大，非常、非常可觀。我們要不就在漂浮島上生活，要不就是增高島嶼，讓我們不會被淹沒，因為海平面上升，暴風也會愈來愈強烈。即便如此，我們也非常、非常難取得所需的資源。 克：要不然最後的手段就是某種形式的強制遷移。 湯：我們也在研究這個，因為在沒有國際協助的情況下，我們要預備好，我們不想被困在像歐洲現在的情況，好嗎？我們不想看到大規模遷移發生。我們希望今天能給人民選擇，想要遷移的人可以遷移。我們不想看到大家被強制遷移，而且毫無防備。當然，我們的文化很不一樣，我們的社會很不一樣，一旦我們遷移進入不同的環境，不同的文化，一定需要很多的調適。 克：過去你的國家曾有過強制遷移，我想就在這個星期，就在昨天或前天，你訪問了這些人。發生了什麼事？是怎樣的情況？ 湯：是，而且很抱歉，我知道有人在問為什麼我們要溜出去訪問那個地方。我有個很好的理由，因為有一群吉里巴斯人住在索羅門群島上那塊區域，但是他們其實是在 1960 年代從鳳凰群島搬遷到那裡的。那時有嚴重的乾旱，人民無法繼續在島上生活，所以他們搬到索羅門群島這裡。昨天與這些人會面很有意思。他們不知道我是誰。他們沒聽過我。有些人後來認出我，但是我想他們都很高興。後來他們真的想要辦一個正式的歡迎會。但是我想昨天我看到的情況非常有意思，因為我在這裡看到我們的人民。我用我們的語言與他們交談，當然他們也用同樣的語言回答，但是他們有口音，他們已經開始講不太標準的吉里巴斯話。我看見他們，有位女士有紅色的牙齒。她在嚼檳榔，我們在吉里巴斯不吃這個。我們不嚼檳榔。我也遇到一個家庭與當地人通婚，這就是實際情況。你進入另一個社區，就會發生必然的改變。必然會喪失某種程度的認同感，這就是我們在未來會看到的現象，如果我們選擇遷移。 克：那必定是非常激動的一天，因為這些身分認同的問題，看到你的喜悅，或許加強了他們的失落感。所以其實很讓人感動聽到你說你要奮戰到底，試著讓這個國家保留在原地。 湯：這是我們的願望。沒有人想離開自己的家，所以這對我是個很艱難的決定。你當領袖，不想計畫離開你的島、你的家，我在不同的場合被問了好多次，「你有什麼感受？」這一點都不好受。這是很感傷的事，我一直試著與其共存，我知道有時候，我被指責沒有試著解決問題，因為我無法解決這個問題。這必須集體合作才做得到。 氣候變遷是全球現象，正如我常提出的，不幸的是，各國到聯合國開會時，我與太平洋島國論壇國家開會，澳洲及紐西蘭也是論壇成員，我們有一項爭執。新聞曾經報過一點，因為他們認為要減少排放量是他們做不到的事情，因為那會影響產業。我當時就說，是，我懂你的意思，我知道你在說什麼，但也請試著瞭解我在說什麼，因為如果你不減少排放量，那我們的生存就岌岌可危。所以這是你要權衡的問題，這些道德問題。這是產業對上人民存亡。 克：昨天我問你，是什麼讓你生氣，你說：「我沒有生氣。」但是你馬上頓了一下。我想這就是讓你生氣的原因。 湯：我要向你指出早先我在聯合國發表的聲明，我很生氣，非常灰心，而且很消沉沮喪。有一種徒勞無功的感覺，好像我們在打一場毫無勝算的仗。我必須改變我的做法。我必須變得更理性，因為我認為大家會聽理性的人說話，但是我保持「極其理性」，不管這是什麼意思。 （笑聲） 克：你的國家最主要的部分是漁業，我想你說過幾乎每個人都跟漁業有點關係。 湯：我們每天都吃魚，天天如此，而且我想我們吃魚的量無疑可說是世界最高的，我們沒有很多家畜，所以我們都靠魚維生。 克：所以你們都靠魚維生，無論是從地方層面，還是這個國家從全球鮪魚業收到的收入都是如此，儘管如此，幾年前你採取了一個非常激進的手段。可以說明一下嗎？我想跟鳳凰群島這裡發生的事有關。 湯：容我說明一下魚對我們有何意義。我們的鮪魚漁場是全球現存極少數的大漁場。我想我們在太平洋擁有世界僅存約六成的鮪魚漁場，這個漁場對某些魚種來說還算健康，但不是全都這樣。吉里巴斯是三大資源擁有國之一，鮪魚資源擁有國。目前我們收到的收入，大約八成到九成是入漁費、捕撈執照費。 克：你是指國庫收入。 湯：國庫收入，推動我們所做的一切，政府、醫院、學校諸如此類。但是我們決定要關掉這個漁場，這是非常困難的決定。我可以向你保證，在政治上、在當地發展上，都很困難，但是我堅信我們必須這麼做，以確保漁場能永續發展。已經有指標指出有些魚種，尤其是大目鮪面臨嚴重威脅。黃鰭鮪也過度捕撈。鰹鮪還算豐沛。所以我們必須採取措施，這也就是我做出此項決定的原因。另一個我做出這個決定的原因，是因為我被國際社會質問，為了要因應氣候變遷，要對抗氣候變遷，一定得有所犧牲，一定得有所承諾。在要求國際社會犧牲的同時，我想我們自己也得有所犧牲。所以我們作出犧牲。停止商業捕撈在鳳凰群島保護海域意味著損失收入。我們還在評估損失情況，因為我們今年初才關閉漁場，我們到今年年底才會知道到底損失層面有多大。 克：所以這牽涉很廣。一方面，這可以促使漁場更豐沛。那你能調漲多少其它僅存的漁場入漁費上？ 湯：這方面的協商極為困難，但是我們已經成功調漲每艘船每天的捕撈費。我們對進來捕魚的船隻每日所收的費用，已從每艘六千到八千元提高到現在的一萬到一萬二千元。漲幅很顯著。但同時，要注意的重點是，以往這些捕魚船一天可能捕到十噸的魚，現在他們能捕到約一百噸，因為船隻的效能變得很高。所以我們也要有所因應。我們必須非常非常小心，因為科技如此進步。過去巴西船隊曾經想從大西洋移到太平洋。他們沒成功。他們開始嘗試是否可行。現在他們做到了，而且變得非常高效能。 克：你能讓我們瞭解一下這些協商是什麼嗎？因為你起來對抗的公司基本上在這投注了上億美元。你如何堅持不讓步？你有沒有什麼建言給其他在跟同樣公司打交道的領袖？怎樣為你的國家爭取到最大利益，怎樣為魚類爭取到最大利益？你有什麼建議？ 湯：我想我們太著重在捕撈執照費上，為了報酬率的關係。因為捕撈執照費用所得大約是捕獲魚類上岸價格的一成，是在碼頭上岸的價格，不是店裡販售的價格。而我們只拿到約一成。我們過去一直試著要更加實際參與該行業，參與捕撈、參與加工，並希望最終能參與行銷。這些都不容易打通，但是我們在想辦法，所以是的，答案是「增加」。為了增加我們的報酬率，我們要更積極參與。所以我們開始這麼做，而且我們必須重整該行業。我們必須告訴這些人世界已經改變。現在我們想要自己生產魚類加工品。 克：同時，貴國當地的漁夫，他們還是可以捕魚，這個產業對他們又是如何？更艱難了嗎？水域資源是否枯竭？或是以永續基礎經營？ 湯：對傳統捕撈漁業，我們不參與商業的漁業活動，我們只供應國內市場。鮪魚工業其實完全是針對國外市場，絕大部分是在美國這裡，還有歐洲、日本。我自己可說是漁夫，以前我還能捕到黃鰭鮪。現在很難捕到黃鰭鮪，因為現在都是以圍網漁船從水中吊起幾百噸的魚。 克：這裡有幾位貴國的漂亮女孩。我想問，當你想到她們的未來，你會跟她們說什麼？你會跟這個世界說什麼？ 湯：我一直對世界說我們真的該採取行動來因應氣候變遷，因為對我們而言，這是為了這些孩子的未來。我有 12 個孫子，至少吧？我想我有 12 個，我太太才知道。 （笑聲） 我想我有 8 個孩子。這是為了他們的未來。每天我都見到我的孫子，跟這幾個小女孩差不多大，我真的在想，有時候我也很生氣，真的。我在想他們會變成什麼樣。所以這是為了他們，我們必須告訴每一個人，這不是為了他們自己國家的利益，因為氣候變遷，很遺憾，很不幸被許多國家視為國家的問題。並非如此。這是我們最近與論壇夥伴爭論的問題，就是澳洲人及紐西蘭人，因為他們說：「我們不能再減了。」其中一位領袖，澳洲領導人這麼說，我們盡了自己的責任，我們都在縮減。我說，那其它的呢？你為什麼不自己留著？如果你把你其它的排放物留在自己的疆界內，留在你的邊界內，我們就沒有問題。你要怎麼排放都可以。但不幸的是，你把它排到我這裡，而這會影響我們孩子的未來。我很確定這就是今天氣候變遷的核心問題所在。 我們今年年底將在巴黎開會，但是除非我們能視其為全球現象，因為雖然我們是以各國為單位製造出，但這會影響其他每個人，然而，我們拒絕做任何事情，我們也認為這是各國的問題，並非如此，這是全球議題，必須全球集思廣益。 克：大家對圖表及數字的反應很差，我們的頭腦在這方面不太靈光。好像大家對人物比較有反應。現在看來，你的國家似乎會——儘管其實是因為你們面對極為棘手的問題——你們會成為這世界最閃亮、最有力的警告之光。我僅代表在座各位在此對你致謝，謝謝你非凡的領導，也謝謝你撥冗參加。 總統先生，非常謝謝你。 湯：謝謝！ （掌聲）
