Talk	en	zh-tw
anthony_atala_growing_organs_engineering_tissue	This is actually a painting that hangs at the Countway Library at Harvard Medical School. And it shows the first time an organ was ever transplanted. In the front, you see, actually, Joe Murray getting the patient ready for the transplant, while in the back room you see Hartwell Harrison, the Chief of Urology at Harvard, actually harvesting the kidney. The kidney was indeed the first organ ever to be transplanted to the human. That was back in 1954, 55 years ago. Yet we're still dealing with a lot of the same challenges as many decades ago. Certainly many advances, many lives saved. But we have a major shortage of organs. In the last decade the number of patients waiting for a transplant has doubled. While, at the same time, the actual number of transplants has remained almost entirely flat. That really has to do with our aging population. We're just getting older. Medicine is doing a better job of keeping us alive. But as we age, our organs tend to fail more. So, that's a challenge, not just for organs but also for tissues. Trying to replace pancreas, trying to replace nerves that can help us with Parkinson's. These are major issues. This is actually a very stunning statistic. Every 30 seconds a patient dies from diseases that could be treated with tissue regeneration or replacement. So, what can we do about it? We've talked about stem cells tonight. That's a way to do it. But still ways to go to get stem cells into patients, in terms of actual therapies for organs. Wouldn't it be great if our bodies could regenerate? Wouldn't it be great if we could actually harness the power of our bodies, to actually heal ourselves? It's not really that foreign of a concept, actually; it happens on the Earth every day. This is actually a picture of a salamander. Salamanders have this amazing capacity to regenerate. You see here a little video. This is actually a limb injury in this salamander. And this is actually real photography, timed photography, showing how that limb regenerates in a period of days. You see the scar form. And that scar actually grows out a new limb. So, salamanders can do it. Why can't we? Why can't humans regenerate? Actually, we can regenerate. Your body has many organs and every single organ in your body has a cell population that's ready to take over at the time of injury. It happens every day. As you age, as you get older. Your bones regenerate every 10 years. Your skin regenerates every two weeks. So, your body is constantly regenerating. The challenge occurs when there is an injury. At the time of injury or disease, the body's first reaction is to seal itself off from the rest of the body. It basically wants to fight off infection, and seal itself, whether it's organs inside your body, or your skin, the first reaction is for scar tissue to move in, to seal itself off from the outside. So, how can we harness that power? One of the ways that we do that is actually by using smart biomaterials. How does this work? Well, on the left side here you see a urethra which was injured. This is the channel that connects the bladder to the outside of the body. And you see that it is injured. We basically found out that you can use these smart biomaterials that you can actually use as a bridge. If you build that bridge, and you close off from the outside environment, then you can create that bridge, and cells that regenerate in your body, can then cross that bridge, and take that path. That's exactly what you see here. It's actually a smart biomaterial that we used, to actually treat this patient. This was an injured urethra on the left side. We used that biomaterial in the middle. And then, six months later on the right-hand side you see this reengineered urethra. Turns out your body can regenerate, but only for small distances. The maximum efficient distance for regeneration is only about one centimeter. So, we can use these smart biomaterials but only for about one centimeter to bridge those gaps. So, we do regenerate, but for limited distances. What do we do now, if you have injury for larger organs? What do we do when we have injuries for structures which are much larger than one centimeter? Then we can start to use cells. The strategy here, is if a patient comes in to us with a diseased or injured organ, you can take a very small piece of tissue from that organ, less than half the size of a postage stamp, you can then tease that tissue apart, and look at its basic components, the patient's own cells, you take those cells out, grow and expand those cells outside the body in large quantities, and then we then use scaffold materials. To the naked eye they look like a piece of your blouse, or your shirt, but actually these materials are fairly complex and they are designed to degrade once inside the body. It disintegrates a few months later. It's acting only as a cell delivery vehicle. It's bringing the cells into the body. It's allowing the cells to regenerate new tissue, and once the tissue is regenerated the scaffold goes away. And that's what we did for this piece of muscle. This is actually showing a piece of muscle and how we go through the structures to actually engineer the muscle. We take the cells, we expand them, we place the cells on the scaffold, and we then place the scaffold back into the patient. But actually, before placing the scaffold into the patient, we actually exercise it. We want to make sure that we condition this muscle, so that it knows what to do once we put it into the patient. That's what you're seeing here. You're seeing this muscle bio-reactor actually exercising the muscle back and forth. Okay. These are flat structures that we see here, the muscle. What about other structures? This is actually an engineered blood vessel. Very similar to what we just did, but a little bit more complex. Here we take a scaffold, and we basically — scaffold can be like a piece of paper here. And we can then tubularize this scaffold. And what we do is we, to make a blood vessel, same strategy. A blood vessel is made up of two different cell types. We take muscle cells, we paste, or coat the outside with these muscle cells, very much like baking a layer cake, if you will. You place the muscle cells on the outside. You place the vascular blood vessel lining cells on the inside. You now have your fully seeded scaffold. You're going to place this in an oven-like device. It has the same conditions as a human body, 37 degrees centigrade, 95 percent oxygen. You then exercise it, as what you saw on that tape. And on the right you actually see a carotid artery that was engineered. This is actually the artery that goes from your neck to your brain. And this is an X-ray showing you the patent, functional blood vessel. More complex structures such as blood vessels, urethras, which I showed you, they're definitely more complex because you're introducing two different cell types. But they are really acting mostly as conduits. You're allowing fluid or air to go through at steady states. They are not nearly as complex as hollow organs. Hollow organs have a much higher degree of complexity, because you're asking these organs to act on demand. So, the bladder is one such organ. Same strategy, we take a very small piece of the bladder, less than half the size of a postage stamp. We then tease the tissue apart into its two individual cell components, muscle, and these bladder specialized cells. We grow the cells outside the body in large quantities. It takes about four weeks to grow these cells from the organ. We then take a scaffold that we shape like a bladder. We coat the inside with these bladder lining cells. We coat the outside with these muscle cells. We place it back into this oven-like device. From the time you take that piece of tissue, six to eight weeks later you can put the organ right back into the patient. This actually shows the scaffold. The material is actually being coated with the cells. When we did the first clinical trial for these patients we actually created the scaffold specifically for each patient. We brought patients in, six to eight weeks prior to their scheduled surgery, did X-rays, and we then composed a scaffold specifically for that patient's size pelvic cavity. For the second phase of the trials we just had different sizes, small, medium, large and extra-large. (Laughter) It's true. And I'm sure everyone here wanted an extra-large. Right? (Laughter) So, bladders are definitely a little bit more complex than the other structures. But there are other hollow organs that have added complexity to it. This is actually a heart valve, which we engineered. And the way you engineer this heart valve is the same strategy. We take the scaffold, we seed it with cells, and you can now see here, the valve leaflets opening and closing. We exercise these prior to implantation. Same strategy. And then the most complex are the solid organs. For solid organs, they're more complex because you're using a lot more cells per centimeter. This is actually a simple solid organ like the ear. It's now being seeded with cartilage. That's the oven-like device; once it's coated it gets placed there. And then a few weeks later we can take out the cartilage scaffold. This is actually digits that we're engineering. These are being layered, one layer at a time, first the bone, we fill in the gaps with cartilage. We then start adding the muscle on top. And you start layering these solid structures. Again, fairly more complex organs, but by far, the most complex solid organs are actually the vascularized, highly vascularized, a lot of blood vessel supply, organs such as the heart, the liver, the kidneys. This is actually an example — several strategies to engineer solid organs. This is actually one of the strategies. We use a printer. And instead of using ink, we use — you just saw an inkjet cartridge — we just use cells. This is actually your typical desktop printer. It's actually printing this two chamber heart, one layer at a time. You see the heart coming out there. It takes about 40 minutes to print, and about four to six hours later you see the muscle cells contract. (Applause) This technology was developed by Tao Ju, who worked at our institute. And this is actually still, of course, experimental, not for use in patients. Another strategy that we have followed is actually to use decellularized organs. We actually take donor organs, organs that are discarded, and we then can use very mild detergents to take all the cell elements out of these organs. So, for example on the left panel, top panel, you see a liver. We actually take the donor liver, we use very mild detergents, and we, by using these mild detergents, we take all the cells out of the liver. Two weeks later, we basically can lift this organ up, it feels like a liver, we can hold it like a liver, it looks like a liver, but it has no cells. All we are left with is the skeleton, if you will, of the liver, all made up of collagen, a material that's in our bodies, that will not reject. We can use it from one patient to the next. We then take this vascular structure and we can prove that we retain the blood vessel supply. You can see, actually that's a fluoroscopy. We're actually injecting contrast into the organ. Now you can see it start. We're injecting the contrast into the organ into this decellularized liver. And you can see the vascular tree that remains intact. We then take the cells, the vascular cells, blood vessel cells, we perfuse the vascular tree with the patient's own cells. We perfuse the outside of the liver with the patient's own liver cells. And we can then create functional livers. And that's actually what you're seeing. This is still experimental. But we are able to actually reproduce the functionality of the liver structure, experimentally. For the kidney, as I talked to you about the first painting that you saw, the first slide I showed you, 90 percent of the patients on the transplant wait list are waiting for a kidney, 90 percent. So, another strategy we're following is actually to create wafers that we stack together, like an accordion, if you will. So, we stack these wafers together, using the kidney cells. And then you can see these miniature kidneys that we've engineered. They are actually making urine. Again, small structures, our challenge is how to make them larger, and that is something we're working on right now at the institute. One of the things that I wanted to summarize for you then is what is a strategy that we're going for in regenerative medicine. If at all possible, we really would like to use smart biomaterials that we can just take off the shelf and regenerate your organs. We are limited with distances right now, but our goal is actually to increase those distances over time. If we cannot use smart biomaterials, then we'd rather use your very own cells. Why? Because they will not reject. We can take cells from you, create the structure, put it right back into you, they will not reject. And if possible, we'd rather use the cells from your very specific organ. If you present with a diseased wind pipe we'd like to take cells from your windpipe. If you present with a diseased pancreas we'd like to take cells from that organ. Why? Because we'd rather take those cells which already know that those are the cell types you want. A windpipe cell already knows it's a windpipe cell. We don't need to teach it to become another cell type. So, we prefer organ-specific cells. And today we can obtain cells from most every organ in your body, except for several which we still need stem cells for, like heart, liver, nerve and pancreas. And for those we still need stem cells. If we cannot use stem cells from your body then we'd like to use donor stem cells. And we prefer cells that will not reject and will not form tumors. And we're working a lot with the stem cells that we published on two years ago, stem cells from the amniotic fluid, and the placenta, which have those properties. So, at this point, I do want to tell you that some of the major challenges we have. You know, I just showed you this presentation, everything looks so good, everything works. Actually no, these technologies really are not that easy. Some of the work you saw today was performed by over 700 researchers at our institute across a 20-year time span. So, these are very tough technologies. Once you get the formula right you can replicate it. But it takes a lot to get there. So, I always like to show this cartoon. This is how to stop a runaway stage. And there you see the stagecoach driver, and he goes, on the top panel, He goes A, B, C, D, E, F. He finally stops the runaway stage. And those are usually the basic scientists, The bottom is usually the surgeons. (Laughter) I'm a surgeon so that's not that funny. (Laughter) But actually method A is the correct approach. And what I mean by that is that anytime we've launched one of these technologies to the clinic, we've made absolutely sure that we do everything we can in the laboratory before we ever launch these technologies to patients. And when we launch these technologies to patients we want to make sure that we ask ourselves a very tough question. Are you ready to place this in your own loved one, your own child, your own family member, and then we proceed. Because our main goal, of course, is first, to do no harm. I'm going to show you now, a very short clip, It's a five second clip of a patient who received one of the engineered organs. We started implanting some of these structures over 14 years ago. So, we have patients now walking around with organs, engineered organs, for over 10 years, as well. I'm going to show a clip of one young lady. She had a spina bifida defect, a spinal cord abnormality. She did not have a normal bladder. This is a segment from CNN. We are just taking five seconds. This is a segment that Sanjay Gupta actually took care of. Video: Kaitlyn M: I'm happy. I was always afraid that I was going to have like, an accident or something. And now I can just go and go out with my friends, go do whatever I want. Anthony Atala: See, at the end of the day, the promise of regenerative medicine is a single promise. And that is really very simple, to make our patients better. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)	這是一幅掛在哈佛醫學院 Countway 圖書館的畫。它描繪著史上第一次的器官移植。在前排，你可以看到 Joe Murray正在調整病人狀況，使其適合器官移植。在房間的後面，你可以看到 Hartwell Harrison，哈佛泌尿科主任，正在採集腎臟。腎臟是第一個成功移植到人類身上的器官。 那發生在 1954 年，55 年前，他們仍然面對著許多跟數十年前相同的挑戰。當然進步了許多，救了很多生命。但是可供移植的器官數量極為短缺。過去十年間等待器官移植的病人數量倍增。在此同時，器官移植的術例幾乎完全沒有增加。這是因為我們的平均壽命延長了，我們變老了。醫學使我們的壽命延長了。但是在我們變老的同時，器官也更容易衰竭。 因此，這是一個挑戰，不只是器官，人體組織也一樣。嘗試移植胰臟，嘗試移植可以幫助帕金森氏症病人的神經組織。這些是重大的問題。這邊有個非常令人震驚的統計數據，每卅秒，就有一個病人因為疾病死亡，但其實這個疾並可以藉由組織再生或更換來醫治。那麼，我們又能夠做些什麼？我們今晚已經聽過了關於幹細胞的演講，那是方法之一。但是從將幹細胞注入病人體內，直到真的對器官層次發生療效，這路途還很遙遠。 如果我們的身體能夠自行再生，那該多好？如果我們能夠掌握身體自我治癒的能力，那該多好？這其實不是個什麼新奇的概念，事實上，在地球上，這類的事的每天都在發生著。這是一張蠑螈的照片，蠑螈擁有不可思議的再生能力。這邊有一小段影片，這是那蠑螈的腳受傷的真實照片，定時攝像，顯示那隻腳如何在數天內再生回來。你看到痂的產生，然而這個痂事實上向外長成了一隻新的腳。 因此，蠑螈能夠做到，我們為什麼不能？人類為什麼無法自行再生？事實上，我們可以的。你的身體擁有許多器官，而你體內的每一個器官都有一個細胞的群體，準備好當受傷時能夠立即反應，這樣的戲碼每天都在上演。當你變老，每十年，你的骨骼就會全部再生一次。你的皮膚每兩星期再生一次。因此，你的身體其實是不斷地在更新的。困難之處在於，當受傷時，在受傷或生病的時候，你身體的第一個反應是將它與身體其他部份隔絕。基本上，它想與感染作戰，並將戰場侷限住，不管那是在你身體的器官裡面，或是你的皮膚，第一個反應都是讓結痂組織移入，將之與外界隔離。 那麼，我們要怎樣才能重拾那樣的能力呢？其中一個辦法是，使用智慧型生物材料。這其中原理是什麼呢？在畫面左邊你可以看到一個損傷的尿道。這是將膀胱的尿液排出體外的渠道，你可以看到它受傷了。我們基本上發現使用這些智慧型生物材料，你可以使用其作為橋樑跨接，如果你建造那座橋，然後你將其與外在環境隔絕，那麼，你建造的這座橋，可以讓那些能夠另你身體再生的細胞通過，並使用這座橋來聯絡。 這就是你在這邊看到的。這就是我們使用的智慧型生物材料，醫治這個病人的情形。左邊是受損的尿道，我們在中間使用了生物材料，然後，右邊是六個月後的復原情形，你看到尿道被重建了。這證實了你的身體可以再生，但是僅限於非常短的距離，能夠再生的最大範圍只有大約一公分。所以就算我們使用這些智慧型生物材料，也只能跨接並治癒大約一公分的距離。 因此，我們再生，但是距離有限。接下來該怎麼做？如果你體內的大型器官受損了？如果我們體內比一公分大得多的構造受到了損傷，我們該怎麼辦？這時候，我們可以開始使用細胞。這裡的策略是，如果病人來向我們求助，而他們的器官受到了感染或是損傷，你可以從那器官上取下一塊非常小的組織，只要大約一半郵票的大小，現在你可以將這組織分離，分析其基本組成，這是病人自身的細胞，你可以將這些細胞取出，在體外大量培養並增殖這些細胞，然後我們使用支持材料， 肉眼看起來這材料像是你罩衫或襯衫的布料，但事實上這些材料非常地複雜，而且它們被設計成可在體內被分解。它會於數個月之後被分解。它只是一個運送細胞的載體。它把細胞帶入體內，讓細胞再生成新組織，一但組織再生完成，那些支架也就不見了。 這就是我們在這塊肌肉上所做的事。這裡顯示了一塊肌肉以及我們從如何建立結構到真正的能夠做出這些肌肉。我們取出細胞，將細胞增殖，並把細胞放到支架上，然後我們把支架放回病人體內。但事實上，在我們將支架放回病人體內之前，我們必須讓它運動。我們希望確定我們給這些肌肉足夠的訓練，因此等到我們將之放回病人體內後，它將知道該怎麼做。這就是你在這裡看到的。你正在觀看一個肌肉生物反應槽，在這反應槽內，我們不停的往復運動肌肉。 直到現在，我們看到的都還只是平面的構造，例如肌肉。那麼其他的構造呢？這是一條人造血管，製作過程跟我們剛剛所提及的非常相似，但是更複雜。在這邊我們用一個支架，這支架可以是這邊所顯示的一張紙。然後我們將這個支架捲曲成管狀。然後我們就能以同樣的策略做出血管了。血管是由兩種不同種類的細胞所組成。我們拿取肌肉細胞，將之貼在管壁的外緣，就好像烘培千層糕一般，如果你這樣比喻。 將肌肉細胞貼在管壁外緣，將血管相關條狀細胞貼在管壁內側。現在你的支架就已經植入好細胞了。然後我們將這個東西放入一個類似烤箱的裝置，這裝置的內部狀態調整到與人體相同，攝氏 37 度，95% 的含氧量。然後我們給它運動，就像這影片中顯示的一樣。 在畫面右側，你看到的是人造的頸動脈，就是從你的頸部通往腦部的動脈。這 X 光影像可以讓你看到明顯的，功能正常的血管。更多複雜的構造，像是血管、尿道，這些我已經讓你們看過的例子，它們很複雜，因為你必須引入兩種不同種類的細胞。但是它們最主要的功能只是個渠道。只要能夠讓液體或是空氣以穩定的狀態通過。它們的複雜度跟空腔臟器比起來是小巫見大巫。空腔臟器的複雜度要大得多，因為你需要這些器官對於人體需求能正確的反應。 例如，膀胱就是一個這樣的例子。同樣的策略，我們取下一塊非常小的膀胱，比郵票的一半還小。我們將這個組織拆解開來，分成兩種不同的細胞組成，那就是肌肉和這些膀胱特化細胞。我們在體外大量的培養這些細胞。從器官取出這些細胞後，大約需要四星期的培養時間。然後我們拿一個我們做成膀胱造型的支架。我們將這些膀胱特化細胞放置在內部，外部則披上肌肉細胞。然後我們將其放回這個像烤箱的裝置。從你取出那塊組織的時候算起，六到八星期後，你就可以將這個器官放回病人體內。 這是那支架的樣子。這材料上面其實覆滿了細胞。當我們首次對這些病人做臨床試驗的時候，事實上我們針對每個病人量身訂做了這些支架。這些病患於他們手術預定時間的六到八星期前來照 X 光，然後我們就做了一個跟那個病人骨盆腔一樣大小的支架。臨床試驗的第二期，我們就只分成幾種尺寸，小、中、大和特大。（笑聲）這是真的。而且我相信這裡的每個人都想要特大號，對吧？（笑聲） 因為這樣，膀胱比起其他的構造又更複雜。但是還有其他的空腔臟器比膀胱更複雜。這是一個我們做出來的心臟辦膜。一樣的製作策略，用支架，種細胞，在這邊你們可以看到，辦膜的葉片不斷的開合著。在植入人體前，我們給它運動。一樣的策略。 然而，最複雜的是實心器官。對於實心器官，他們的複雜度在於每一公分你需要使用的細胞量大大的增加。這是一個簡單的實心器官，耳朵。它現在被植上軟骨。這是像烤箱的裝置，一旦它被覆上細胞，我們就把它放置在這邊。然後數星期後，我們就可以把軟骨支架取出。 這是我們做的指頭。它們是一層層製作出來的，每次一層，先是骨頭，然後用軟骨填充空隙。最後再加上肌肉。就這樣，你開始將實心器官分成一層層的看待。的確，相對來說非常複雜的器官。但是到目前為止，最複雜的實心器官是那些高度血管化，需要很多血管供給的器官，像是心臟、肝臟和腎臟。這邊有一個實例，製作實心臟器的數個策略。 這是數個策略之一，我們使用印表機。但是我們不使用墨水，我們使用，這是墨水夾，我們使用細胞來列印。這就是一般典型的桌上型印表機。它正在列印出心臟的兩個心室，一層層的列印出來。你看到心臟快要成型了。列印一次耗時大約 40 分鐘，然後大約四到六小時後，你開始可以看到肌肉細胞收縮。（掌聲）這是我們研究所的道儒（音譯）所發展出來的科技。當然，這還只是實驗性的技術，還不能用來醫治病人。 我們使用的另一個策略是，使用去細胞化的器官。我們使用捐贈者的器官，被遺棄不要的器官，然後我們使用非常柔性的清潔劑將所有的細胞元素從這些器官上移除。因此，在左側，上方，你看到一個肝臟。我們使用捐贈者的肝臟，使用非常柔性的清潔劑，藉由使用這些柔性的清潔劑，我們將所有的細胞從這個肝臟上移除。 兩星期後，我們就可以將這個器官拿出，它感覺就像個肝臟，我們可以像握著一顆肝臟般握著它，它看起來像肝臟，但是它已經沒有細胞了。只剩下它的「骨頭」，如果你這樣比喻的話，由膠原蛋白構成的骨頭，膠原蛋白我們體內都有，而且不具免疫排斥性。我們可以從前一個病人身上取下，然後用在下一個病人身上。然後我們使用這個血管化的結構，證明我們保存了血管供給的能力。 你們可以看到，事實上，這是螢光鏡的影像。我們注入顯影劑到器官中。現在你們可以看到它開始了。我們剛剛注入顯影劑到器官裡，到這個去細胞化的肝臟裡。你們可以看到這些樹狀的血管維持完整。我們現在可以將細胞，管狀細胞，血管細胞，我們將這樹狀血管結構注滿病人自己的細胞。我們將肝臟的外部注滿病人自己的肝臟細胞。然後我們就可以做出能正常運作的肝臟。這就是你們正在看的。這仍是實驗性的技術。但是我們能夠重製具有功能的肝臟結構，至少在實驗室裡能夠。 至於腎臟，記得我剛剛給你們看列印器官的投影片嗎？就是第一張投影片，90% 在器官移植等待名單上的病人，是在等待腎臟，90%。因此，我們使用的另一個策略，是製造千層酥，然後我們將它們疊在一起，像個手風琴，如果你這樣想像的話。我們用腎臟細胞將這些千層酥疊在一起，現在你就可以看到這些我們造的迷你腎臟了。它們真的可以製造尿液。但是仍然太小，我們的挑戰是把它們做得大一點，這就是我們現在正在我們的研究所裡面嘗試的。我想要向你們總結的幾件事情之一，就是我們嘗試向再生醫療邁進的策略。 如果有可能，我們希望可以使用智慧型生物材料，我們可以直接從藥物櫃上取得，然後開始製作你的器官。現在我們仍然受到距離的限制，但是我們的目標是隨著時間逐漸增加這個距離的限制。如果我們不能使用智慧型生物材料，退而求其次，我們希望使用你自己的細胞。 為什麼？因為它們不會受到排斥。我們可以從你身上取得細胞，做出它的構造，再將它放回你體內，它們不會受到排斥。再來，如果可能的話，我們希望使用你身上同一個器官的細胞。如果你的氣管有問題，我們希望從你的氣管上取得細胞。如果是你的胰臟有問題，我們希望從胰臟上取樣。 為什麼？因為我們寧願使用這些已經知道是你想要使用的細胞種類。氣管細胞已經知道它是氣管細胞。我們不需要教它去變成另外一種細胞。所以我們偏愛同一個器官的細胞。今天，我們幾乎能從你體內的任何器官採樣，除了少數幾個我們仍然需要幹細胞的幫忙，像是心臟、肝臟、神經和胰臟。這些器官或組織的問題，我們仍需使用幹細胞。如果我們無法使用你自身的幹細胞，那麼我們將會使用捐贈者的幹細胞。我們偏好不具有免疫排斥性，且不會形成腫瘤的細胞。 我們兩年前發表的研究，讓我們有很多幹細胞的研究經驗，從羊水、胎盤取得的幹細胞，它們具有這種特性。因此，現在，我真的希望告訴你們我們遇到的一些重大挑戰。你知道的，我剛剛向你們所做的簡報，一切看起來是如此的美好，一切順利。事實上，並非如此，這些技術真的非常不簡單。一些你們今天看到的研究，是由超過 700 位研究者，在我們研究所，花了廿年研究的成果。 因此，這些是非常困難的技術。一旦你搞清楚怎麼做以後，你將能夠複製它。但是需要花上好大功夫才能抵達那個階段。因此，我總是喜歡放上這張漫畫。這是如何避免失控發生的階段。在這邊你看到那位馬車司機，他這麼做，從最上方開始，他做了 A, B, C, D, E, F.然後他終於阻止了失控災難的發生。通常這些馬車司機就是基礎科學家，下面的通常是外科醫生。（笑聲）我是一個外科醫師，所以這並不好笑。（笑聲） 但是，事實上，方法 A 是正確的途徑。我這樣說是想強調，不論何時，我們讓這些技術走向臨床應用，我們一定非常確定，我們已經在實驗室中竭盡所能的試驗其安全性，才會讓病人接觸到這些技術。而當我們準備讓病人接觸這些技術時，我們都會問自己一個非常難的問題。你已經準備好將這東西放到你心愛的人、你自己小孩，和你的家人身上了嗎？然後我們才會進行。因為我們主要的目標，當然，首先要講究不傷身體。 現在我要播放一段非常短的影片，一段病人的五秒鐘影片，這病人接受了一個人工器官的移植。我們從 14 年前就開始移植這些構造，我們從 14 年前就開始移植這些構造，所以現在我們有接受器官的病人活蹦亂跳的走來走去，有些已經接受這些人造器官超過十年了。我將播放一段一個年輕女士的影片。她有脊柱裂傷，一種脊椎骨異常症。她也沒有正常的膀胱。這是來自 CNN 的片段。只要五秒鐘。這一個片段你們可以看到 Sanjay Gupta 影片：Kaitlyn M: 我很高興。之前我很害怕，怕我會發生意外或什麼其他的事。但是現在我可以自由行動跟朋友們出去逛，去任何我想去的地方。 Anthony Atala: 看到了嗎？在今天結束的時候，再生醫療向我們保證的只有一件事。一件非常簡單的事，讓我們的病人過得更好。非常謝謝你們。（掌聲）
