Talk	en	zh-tw
anthony_atala_printing_a_human_kidney	"There's actually a major health crisis today in terms of the shortage of organs. The fact is that we're living longer. Medicine has done a much better job of making us live longer, and the problem is, as we age, our organs tend to fail more, and so currently there are not enough organs to go around. In fact, in the last 10 years, the number of patients requiring an organ has doubled, while in the same time, the actual number of transplants has barely gone up. So this is now a public health crisis. So that's where this field comes in that we call the field of regenerative medicine. It really involves many different areas. You can use, actually, scaffolds, biomaterials — they're like the piece of your blouse or your shirt — but specific materials you can actually implant in patients and they will do well and help you regenerate. Or we can use cells alone, either your very own cells or different stem cell populations. Or we can use both. We can use, actually, biomaterials and the cells together. And that's where the field is today. But it's actually not a new field. Interestingly, this is a book that was published back in 1938. It's titled ""The Culture of Organs."" The first author, Alexis Carrel, a Nobel Prize winner. He actually devised some of the same technologies used today for suturing blood vessels, and some of the blood vessel grafts we use today were actually designed by Alexis. But I want you to note his co-author: Charles Lindbergh. That's the same Charles Lindbergh who actually spent the rest of his life working with Alexis at the Rockefeller Institute in New York in the area of the culture of organs. So if the field's been around for so long, why so few clinical advances? And that really has to do to many different challenges. But if I were to point to three challenges, the first one is actually the design of materials that could go in your body and do well over time. And many advances now, we can do that fairly readily. The second challenge was cells. We could not get enough of your cells to grow outside of your body. Over the last 20 years, we've basically tackled that. Many scientists can now grow many different types of cells. Plus we have stem cells. But even now, 2011, there's still certain cells that we just can't grow from the patient. Liver cells, nerve cells, pancreatic cells — we still can't grow them even today. And the third challenge is vascularity, the actual supply of blood to allow those organs or tissues to survive once we regenerate them. So we can actually use biomaterials now. This is actually a biomaterial. We can weave them, knit them, or we can make them like you see here. This is actually like a cotton candy machine. You saw the spray going in. That was like the fibers of the cotton candy creating this structure, this tubularized structure, which is a biomaterial that we can then use to help your body regenerate using your very own cells to do so. And that's exactly what we did here. This is actually a patient who [was] presented with a deceased organ, and we then created one of these smart biomaterials, and then we then used that smart biomaterial to replace and repair that patient's structure. What we did was we actually used the biomaterial as a bridge so that the cells in the organ could walk on that bridge, if you will, and help to bridge the gap to regenerate that tissue. And you see that patient now six months after with an X-ray showing you the regenerated tissue, which is fully regenerated when you analyze it under the microscope. We can also use cells alone. These are actually cells that we obtained. These are stem cells that we create from specific sources, and we can drive them to become heart cells, and they start beating in culture. So they know what to do. The cells genetically know what to do, and they start beating together. Now today, many clinical trials are using different kinds of stem cells for heart disease. So that's actually now in patients. Or if we're going to use larger structures to replace larger structures, we can then use the patient's own cells, or some cell population, and the biomaterials, the scaffolds, together. So the concept here: so if you do have a deceased or injured organ, we take a very small piece of that tissue, less than half the size of a postage stamp. We then tease the cells apart, we grow the cells outside the body. We then take a scaffold, a biomaterial — again, looks very much like a piece of your blouse or your shirt — we then shape that material, and we then use those cells to coat that material one layer at a time — very much like baking a layer cake, if you will. We then place it in an oven-like device, and we're able to create that structure and bring it out. This is actually a heart valve that we've engineered, and you can see here, we have the structure of the heart valve and we've seeded that with cells, and then we exercise it. So you see the leaflets opening and closing — of this heart valve that's currently being used experimentally to try to get it to further studies. Another technology that we have used in patients actually involves bladders. We actually take a very small piece of the bladder from the patient — less than half the size of a postage stamp. We then grow the cells outside the body, take the scaffold, coat the scaffold with the cells — the patient's own cells, two different cell types. We then put it in this oven-like device. It has the same conditions as the human body — 37 degrees centigrade, 95 percent oxygen. A few weeks later, you have your engineered organ that we're able to implant back into the patient. For these specific patients, we actually just suture these materials. We use three-dimensional imagining analysis, but we actually created these biomaterials by hand. But we now have better ways to create these structures with the cells. We use now some type of technologies, where for solid organs, for example, like the liver, what we do is we take discard livers. As you know, a lot of organs are actually discarded, not used. So we can take these liver structures, which are not going to be used, and we then put them in a washing machine-like structure that will allow the cells to be washed away. Two weeks later, you have something that looks like a liver. You can hold it like a liver, but it has no cells; it's just a skeleton of the liver. And we then can re-perfuse the liver with cells, preserving the blood vessel tree. So we actually perfuse first the blood vessel tree with the patient's own blood vessel cells, and we then infiltrate the parenchyma with the liver cells. And we now have been able just to show the creation of human liver tissue just this past month using this technology. Another technology that we've used is actually that of printing. This is actually a desktop inkjet printer, but instead of using ink, we're using cells. And you can actually see here the printhead going through and printing this structure, and it takes about 40 minutes to print this structure. And there's a 3D elevator that then actually goes down one layer at a time each time the printhead goes through. And then finally you're able to get that structure out. You can pop that structure out of the printer and implant it. And this is actually a piece of bone that I'm going to show you in this slide that was actually created with this desktop printer and implanted as you see here. That was all new bone that was implanted using these techniques. Another more advanced technology we're looking at right now, our next generation of technologies, are more sophisticated printers. This particular printer we're designing now is actually one where we print right on the patient. So what you see here — I know it sounds funny, but that's the way it works. Because in reality, what you want to do is you actually want to have the patient on the bed with the wound, and you have a scanner, basically like a flatbed scanner. That's what you see here on the right side. You see a scanner technology that first scans the wound on the patient and then it comes back with the printheads actually printing the layers that you require on the patients themselves. This is how it actually works. Here's the scanner going through, scanning the wound. Once it's scanned, it sends information in the correct layers of cells where they need to be. And now you're going to see here a demo of this actually being done in a representative wound. And we actually do this with a gel so that you can lift the gel material. So once those cells are on the patient they will stick where they need to be. And this is actually new technology still under development. We're also working on more sophisticated printers. Because in reality, our biggest challenge are the solid organs. I don't know if you realize this, but 90 percent of the patients on the transplant list are actually waiting for a kidney. Patients are dying every day because we don't have enough of those organs to go around. So this is more challenging — large organ, vascular, a lot of blood vessel supply, a lot of cells present. So the strategy here is — this is actually a CT scan, an X-ray — and we go layer by layer, using computerized morphometric imaging analysis and 3D reconstruction to get right down to those patient's own kidneys. We then are able to actually image those, do 360 degree rotation to analyze the kidney in its full volumetric characteristics, and we then are able to actually take this information and then scan this in a printing computerized form. So we go layer by layer through the organ, analyzing each layer as we go through the organ, and we then are able to send that information, as you see here, through the computer and actually design the organ for the patient. This actually shows the actual printer. And this actually shows that printing. In fact, we actually have the printer right here. So while we've been talking today, you can actually see the printer back here in the back stage. That's actually the actual printer right now, and that's been printing this kidney structure that you see here. It takes about seven hours to print a kidney, so this is about three hours into it now. And Dr. Kang's going to walk onstage right now, and we're actually going to show you one of these kidneys that we printed a little bit earlier today. Put a pair of gloves here. Thank you. Go backwards. So, these gloves are a little bit small on me, but here it is. You can actually see that kidney as it was printed earlier today. (Applause) Has a little bit of consistency to it. This is Dr. Kang who's been working with us on this project, and part of our team. Thank you, Dr. Kang. I appreciate it. (Applause) So this is actually a new generation. This is actually the printer that you see here onstage. And this is actually a new technology we're working on now. In reality, we now have a long history of doing this. I'm going to share with you a clip in terms of technology we have had in patients now for a while. And this is actually a very brief clip — only about 30 seconds — of a patient who actually received an organ. (Video) Luke Massella: I was really sick. I could barely get out of bed. I was missing school. It was pretty much miserable. I couldn't go out and play basketball at recess without feeling like I was going to pass out when I got back inside. I felt so sick. I was facing basically a lifetime of dialysis, and I don't even like to think about what my life would be like if I was on that. So after the surgery, life got a lot better for me. I was able to do more things. I was able to wrestle in high school. I became the captain of the team, and that was great. I was able to be a normal kid with my friends. And because they used my own cells to build this bladder, it's going to be with me. I've got it for life, so I'm all set. (Applause) Juan Enriquez: These experiments sometimes work, and it's very cool when they do. Luke, come up please. (Applause) So Luke, before last night, when's the last time you saw Tony? LM: Ten years ago, when I had my surgery — and it's really great to see him. (Laughter) (Applause) JE: And tell us a little bit about what you're doing. LM: Well right now I'm in college at the University of Connecticut. I'm a sophomore and studying communications, TV and mass media, and basically trying to live life like a normal kid, which I always wanted growing up. But it was hard to do that when I was born with spina bifida and my kidneys and bladder weren't working. I went through about 16 surgeries, and it seemed impossible to do that when I was in kidney failure when I was 10. And this surgery came along and basically made me who I am today and saved my life. (Applause) JE: And Tony's done hundreds of these? LM: What I know from, he's working really hard in his lab and coming up with crazy stuff. I know I was one of the first 10 people to have this surgery. And when I was 10, I didn't realize how amazing it was. I was a little kid, and I was like, ""Yeah. I'll have that. I'll have that surgery."" (Laughter) All I wanted to do was to get better, and I didn't realize how amazing it really was until now that I'm older and I see the amazing things that he's doing. JE: When you got this call out of the blue — Tony's really shy, and it took a lot of convincing to get somebody as modest as Tony to allow us to bring Luke. So Luke, you go to your communications professors — you're majoring in communications — and you ask them for permission to come to TED, which might have a little bit to do with communications, and what was their reaction? LM: Most of my professors were all for it, and they said, ""Bring pictures and show me the clips online,"" and ""I'm happy for you."" There were a couple that were a little stubborn, but I had to talk to them. I pulled them aside. JE: Well, it's an honor and a privilege to meet you. Thank you so much. (LM: Thank you so much.) JE: Thank you, Tony. (Applause)"	現今其實存在著一個重大的醫療健康危機，那就是可供移植人體器官的短缺。事實上，我們活得更長久了；現代醫學對於讓我們活得更長久居功厥偉。問題是：當我們老化，我們器官衰竭的機率也增加。因此現今，可供使用的器官並不足夠。事實上，過去十年間，需要接受器官移植的病人數量倍增，但同時，真正的器官移植術例卻幾乎沒有增加。因此，這已經是公眾醫療健康的危機了， 也因此，這也是我們為什麼需要進行這個領域研究的原因，我們稱這個研究領域為 — 再生醫學。它其實牽涉了許多不同的區域，你可以使用，例如說：支架、生物材料 —它們就好像男裝或女裝襯衫上面的一塊布料 —但是這些是由可以真正植入病人體內的專門材料所製成，它們無害地在你體內，協助你再生與癒合。或是我們可以單獨使用細胞，不管是你自體本身的細胞，或是不同的幹細胞群。或者我們兩者兼用；事實上，我們可以將生物材料與細胞一起使用。這就是今日這個領域的現況。 但事實上，這並不是一個新興的領域。非常有趣地，這裡有一本早在 1938 年出版的書。書名叫做《器官培養》第一作者是 Alexis Carrel ，一名諾貝爾獎得主。他實際上發明了一些今日縫合血管仍在使用的技術。我們今日所使用的某些血管嫁接法就是 Alexis 設計的。但是我想要你們注意一下他的共同作者：查爾斯•林白是的，就是那個飛越大西洋的林白，他的後半輩子都跟著 Alexis 一起在紐約的洛克斐勒醫學研究機構（現為洛克斐勒大學）進行器官培養的研究。 那麼，如果這個領域已經存在了這麼多年，為什麼臨床的突破這麼的少？這其實跟許多不同的難題有關。但如果讓我來列出三大心目中的難題，第一個將會是材料的設計，一個能夠進入你的身體並且長時間穩定無害的材料。這方面現今已經有了很多的進展，我們可以相當迅速的做到這點。第二個難題是細胞，我們無法獲得足量的病人細胞，並在病人體外進行培養。在過去的廿年間，基本上我們克服了這個難題。許多科學家現在可以培養許多不同種類的細胞 —更何況我們還有幹細胞。但是就算現在，2011 年，仍然有部分特定的細胞，我們就是無法從病人身上培養。肝臟細胞，神經細胞，胰臟細胞 —就算是今天，我們仍然無法培養這些細胞。第三個難題就是血管結構，能夠真正的供給血液給這些器官或組織讓它們在人工再生後得以存活。 現在我們已經可以使用生物材料了。這就是生物材料。我們可以對它們進行編織、接合，或是我們可以將它們做成你看到的這樣。這其實像台棉花糖機，你們看到水花噴進去，這就像是棉花糖的細絲ㄧ般，組成了這個結構，這個管狀的結構，這就是接下來我們可以用來幫助你身體再生的生物材料，而我們所使用的原料，是你自身的細胞。這就是我們在這邊所做的。 這是一位病人，他的某個器官病變壞死了，我們製造出這些智慧型生物材料，並使用這些智慧型材料來取代並修復病人自身的結構。我們事實上使用生物材料來當做橋樑，因此器官內的細胞可以在橋樑上走動，好比說，然後幫忙跨越缺口使組織再生。然後在這邊你們看到了同一位病患治療後六個月的 X 光片，你們可以看到再生的組織，當你在顯微鏡下仔細觀察後，你可以發現它已經完全癒合了。我們也可以只利用細胞。這些是我們所獲得的細胞。這些是我們從特定來源所製造出來的幹細胞，我們可以使它們變為心藏細胞，接著它們在培養基中開始跳動。因此它們知道該做什麼，細胞們經由遺傳而知道它們該做什麼，然後它們開始一起跳動。今日，許多臨床試驗使用了不同種類的幹細胞來治療心臟疾病。因此這個成果事實上已經在病人身上使用了， 又或者，如果我們將使用更大型的結構來替換更大的器官，我們可以使用病人自身的細胞，或是一部分細胞群、生物材料和支架構造等等一起使用。所以這裡的概念是：如果你有一個生病或是破損的器官，我們從這器官上取下一個非常小片的組織，比一張郵票的一半還小。然後我們使這些細胞分離，我們在體外培養這些細胞。然後我們拿取一個支架，是生物材料製成的，一樣，看起來就跟你們男裝或女裝襯衫的一小片一樣。然後我們使用這個材質來塑型，然後使用這些細胞包覆這個物質，一次一層 —就跟烘培千層糕一般，好比說。然後我們將它放入一個類似烘箱的裝置中，然後我們就能創造出這結構並且取出它。這是一個我們所製造的心臟辦膜。你可以在這邊看到，我們有心臟辦膜的結構，然後我們在其上種滿了細胞，然後我們讓它做運動。所以你可以看到這些葉瓣不斷的開合 —那是這個心臟辦膜的葉瓣，這個心臟瓣膜還在實驗性試用階段，嘗試著用它來做更進一步的研究。 另一個我們已經在病人身上實際使用的科技事實上與膀胱有關。我們從病人身上取下一片非常小的膀胱組織 —比一張郵票的一半還小。然後我們在體外培養這些細胞，拿取支架，以細胞包覆支架 —這些細胞來自病人自身，屬於兩種不同的細胞類型。然後我們將之放入這個類似烘箱的裝置，這裝置內的環境條件，與人體內部一樣 —攝氏 35 度，含氧量 95%。數周後，你就得到了一個我們可以用來移植回病人身上屬於病人的人工器官。對這些特定的病人來說，我們事實上只是將這些材料給接合起來。雖然我們使用了 3D 立體影像分析技術，但事實上我們是手工製作這些生物材料。 但是我們現在有了更好的方法來利用細胞製造這些結構。我們現在使用某種科技，對於實心臟器，舉例來說，像是肝臟，我們拿取被丟棄不要的肝臟。如你所知，很多器關事實上是被丟棄的，沒有使用的。所以我們能夠使用這些肝臟的結構，反正也沒有人要用這些肝臟，然後我們將其放入類似洗衣機的裝置，在那，肝臟細胞將會被洗去。兩週後，你就得到了一個看起來像是肝臟的東西，你將它捧在手心，感覺就是個肝臟，但是它不含任何細胞，它只是肝臟的骨架。然後我們現在可以重新將細胞散佈在肝臟上，保存血管的樹狀結構。因此事實上我們先將血管的樹狀結構浸置在病人自己的血管細胞中，然後我們再將肝臟細胞滲透到薄壁組織中。現在我們能夠展示就這過去一個月使用這種科技創造人類肝臟組織的成果。 我們所使用的另一項科技是 —事實上是列印器官。這就是一個桌上型噴墨印表機，但是不同於使用墨水匣，我們使用細胞。在這邊，你可以看到其噴頭正在運作並列印出這構造。印出這整個構造大約需耗時四十分鐘，這邊有一個立體升降台，當每次噴頭經過的時候，會一層一層的往下降。最終，你將可以得到這整個結構。你可以簡單的將這構造從印表機上取下並移植它。這是一小塊骨頭，在這張投影片中，我會展示給你們看，這就是使用桌上型印表機所製造，然後如你們在這邊所看到的一般，移植到這邊。所有這些移植的新骨頭，都是使用這些科技。 另一個我們現在正在評估地更先進的技術，我們的新一代科技，是更繁複的印表機。這個我們目前正在設計的特別印表機，將會直接在病人身體上列印。因此你在這邊看到的 —我知道聽起來很可笑，但這就是它運作的方式。因為在現實生活中，你會希望的是 —你希望病人躺在床上，帶著病灶，而你拿著掃描器，基本上就像個平板掃描器。就是你在這裡右手邊所看到的，你看到了掃描器技術，首先掃描病人的傷口，然後變成噴頭回來，直接就在病人身上列印出你所需要的組織層。 這就是它運作的方式。這是掃描器掃描傷口的過程。一旦掃描完成，它就將訊息轉換成正確的細胞層，並將它們列印在應該在的地方。在這邊你將會看到一小段在一個代表性傷口上的真實的操作示範。我們實際上是使用凝膠來做這個示範，因此你可以將膠狀材質剝下。因此一旦這些細胞被列印在病人身上它們將會待在它們應該在的位置。而且事實上這是一項仍在發展的新科技。 我們也正在研發更繁複的印表機。因為在現實世界中，我們最大的難題是實心器官。我不知道你們是否了解這點，但是在器官移植等待者名單上約 90% 的病人事實上是在等待腎臟。每天都有病患撐不下去而過世，因為我們沒有足夠的這些器官流通。因此這是一個比大型器官，血管更大的難題。血管的供給充足，有很多的血管細胞能夠被取得。因此我們的策略是 —這是一個電腦斷層掃描，一個 X 光照片 —然後一層層堆疊起來，使用電腦化形態影像分析來重建 3D 立體影像，來獲得病人自身腎臟的資訊。我們便能夠真正地看到它們，360 度旋轉分析這個腎臟，而不遺漏任何空間上的特性，然後我們就能使用這些資訊，以電腦化的輸出格式來掃描這個腎臟。我們一層層的檢視這個器官，仔細地分析每一層構造。然後我們可以將這個資訊送到，如你這裡所見，經過電腦然後為病人設計器官。這裡是印表機的實體，這是正在列印的實況。 事實上，我們將印表機帶到現場來了，所以，當我們今天在演講的時候，你事實上可以看到印表機就在這裡的後台。這就是我們帶來的印表機實機，它正在列印出你們在這裡所看到的腎臟的構造，列印出一個腎臟約費時七小時，你們所看到的這個大概已經列印了三小時了。Dr. Kang 現在正走上講台，我們要給你們看一下一顆這種列印出來的腎臟，這是我們今天稍早所列印出來的。讓我戴上手套。謝謝。回到剛剛話題～這些手套對我來說有點小，但終於戴好了～你們可以看到這個腎臟，就是這顆稍早所列印出來的腎臟。 （掌聲） 有較高的一致性。Dr. Kang 參與我們的這項研究計畫，是我們研究團隊的一份子。謝謝你。 Dr. Kang，我非常感激。 （掌聲） 事實上這是新一代的機種，這就是你們在講台上所看到的印表機，這也是我們正在研究中的新科技。事實上，我們從事這個研究計畫的歷史已經很久了。我將要跟你們分享一段影片，是關於我們已經應用在病人身上一陣子了的科技。 這是一個非常短的短片 —大約只有卅秒 —關於一個真正接受了這種器官的病人。 （影片）Luke Massella：我那時病得很重，幾乎無法下床，無法去上學，生活很悲慘。不能出去玩，體育課時只要打籃球就會覺得我快要昏倒。就算回到教室，仍然覺得很難過。我所面對的是幾乎篤定的終生血液透析治療，我甚至不想去思考我的未來會是什麼樣子，如果我一輩子都要依靠治療。因此當手術過後，對我來說，生命變得美好多了，我能夠做更多的事了，上高中時，我甚至能去練習摔角。還成為了摔角隊長，真棒！我能像個正常小孩般跟朋友相處，而且因為醫生們使用我自己的細胞來建造這個膀胱，它將會永遠跟我在一起，一輩子，所以一切都搞定了。 （掌聲） Juan Enriquez: 這些實驗有時候能夠成功，而當它們真的成功的時候是非常酷的。Luke，請到台上。 （掌聲） Luke，昨天晚上前，你與 Tony 醫師的最後一次見面是多久前？ LM: 十年前，當我動手術的時候 —能再見面真是很棒。 （笑聲） （掌聲） JE: 跟我們說說你現在在做什麼？ LM: 我現在是康乃狄克大學的學生，現在大二，主修大眾傳播、電視與媒體。基本上嘗試著像個正常的孩子般過日子，那是我一直希望的長大方式。但是非常難達成，當我有先天性的脊柱分裂症，而且我的兩顆腎臟與膀胱皆無法作用。我經歷了大約 16 場手術，仍然看起來毫無希望，才十歲就已經腎衰竭。直到我動了這個手術，基本上是這個手術造就了今天的我，拯救了我的生命。 （掌聲） JE: 而且 Tony 醫師完成了上百起這種術例？ LM: 我所知道的是，他在他實驗室裡面工作非常努力，常常有些瘋狂的發明。我知道我是進行這類手術的前十位術例，但當我才十歲的時候，我並不明白這有多了不起。我只是個小孩子，那時我心裡的想法就好像:「對，我要，我要動這個手術。」（笑聲）只要是能改善健康的我都會去做，但是我並不明白這件事情的重要性，直到我大了些，然後了解了他所從事之工作的偉大之處。 JE: 當你接到這通意外的電話 —Tony 很害羞，我們花了很多時間才說服讓一個像 Tony 這麼謙虛的人，允許我們將 Luke 帶來這邊。那麼 Luke ，當你去跟你的傳播老師 —你主修傳播 —你跟他們請假來參加 TED，也許跟傳播有擦上一點點邊，他們的反應是什麼？ LM: 大多數我的老師們都全力支持，他們說：「記得帶相片回來，當影片上網的時候記得跟我分享」以及「我真為你感到高興」有一些比較固執，但我仍然必須與他們溝通，終於讓他們答應。 JE: 能與你見面是我的榮幸。非常謝謝你。（LM: 非常謝謝你） JE: 謝謝你，Tony。 （掌聲）
