Talk	en	zh-tw
antonio_damasio_the_quest_to_understand_consciousness	"I'm here to talk about the wonder and the mystery of conscious minds. The wonder is about the fact that we all woke up this morning and we had with it the amazing return of our conscious mind. We recovered minds with a complete sense of self and a complete sense of our own existence, yet we hardly ever pause to consider this wonder. We should, in fact, because without having this possibility of conscious minds, we would have no knowledge whatsoever about our humanity; we would have no knowledge whatsoever about the world. We would have no pains, but also no joys. We would have no access to love or to the ability to create. And of course, Scott Fitzgerald said famously that ""he who invented consciousness would have a lot to be blamed for."" But he also forgot that without consciousness, he would have no access to true happiness and even the possibility of transcendence. So much for the wonder, now for the mystery. This is a mystery that has really been extremely hard to elucidate. All the way back into early philosophy and certainly throughout the history of neuroscience, this has been one mystery that has always resisted elucidation, has got major controversies. And there are actually many people that think we should not even touch it; we should just leave it alone, it's not to be solved. I don't believe that, and I think the situation is changing. It would be ridiculous to claim that we know how we make consciousness in our brains, but we certainly can begin to approach the question, and we can begin to see the shape of a solution. And one more wonder to celebrate is the fact that we have imaging technologies that now allow us to go inside the human brain and be able to do, for example, what you're seeing right now. These are images that come from Hanna Damasio's lab, and which show you, in a living brain, the reconstruction of that brain. And this is a person who is alive. This is not a person that is being studied at autopsy. And even more — and this is something that one can be really amazed about — is what I'm going to show you next, which is going underneath the surface of the brain and actually looking in the living brain at real connections, real pathways. So all of those colored lines correspond to bunches of axons, the fibers that join cell bodies to synapses. And I'm sorry to disappoint you, they don't come in color. But at any rate, they are there. The colors are codes for the direction, from whether it is back to front or vice versa. At any rate, what is consciousness? What is a conscious mind? And we could take a very simple view and say, well, it is that which we lose when we fall into deep sleep without dreams, or when we go under anesthesia, and it is what we regain when we recover from sleep or from anesthesia. But what is exactly that stuff that we lose under anesthesia, or when we are in deep, dreamless sleep? Well first of all, it is a mind, which is a flow of mental images. And of course consider images that can be sensory patterns, visual, such as you're having right now in relation to the stage and me, or auditory images, as you are having now in relation to my words. That flow of mental images is mind. But there is something else that we are all experiencing in this room. We are not passive exhibitors of visual or auditory or tactile images. We have selves. We have a Me that is automatically present in our minds right now. We own our minds. And we have a sense that it's everyone of us that is experiencing this — not the person who is sitting next to you. So in order to have a conscious mind, you have a self within the conscious mind. So a conscious mind is a mind with a self in it. The self introduces the subjective perspective in the mind, and we are only fully conscious when self comes to mind. So what we need to know to even address this mystery is, number one, how are minds are put together in the brain, and, number two, how selves are constructed. Now the first part, the first problem, is relatively easy — it's not easy at all — but it is something that has been approached gradually in neuroscience. And it's quite clear that, in order to make minds, we need to construct neural maps. So imagine a grid, like the one I'm showing you right now, and now imagine, within that grid, that two-dimensional sheet, imagine neurons. And picture, if you will, a billboard, a digital billboard, where you have elements that can be either lit or not. And depending on how you create the pattern of lighting or not lighting, the digital elements, or, for that matter, the neurons in the sheet, you're going to be able to construct a map. This, of course, is a visual map that I'm showing you, but this applies to any kind of map — auditory, for example, in relation to sound frequencies, or to the maps that we construct with our skin in relation to an object that we palpate. Now to bring home the point of how close it is — the relationship between the grid of neurons and the topographical arrangement of the activity of the neurons and our mental experience — I'm going to tell you a personal story. So if I cover my left eye — I'm talking about me personally, not all of you — if I cover my left eye, I look at the grid — pretty much like the one I'm showing you. Everything is nice and fine and perpendicular. But sometime ago, I discovered that if I cover my left eye, instead what I get is this. I look at the grid and I see a warping at the edge of my central-left field. Very odd — I've analyzed this for a while. But sometime ago, through the help of an opthamologist colleague of mine, Carmen Puliafito, who developed a laser scanner of the retina, I found out the the following. If I scan my retina through the horizontal plane that you see there in the little corner, what I get is the following. On the right side, my retina is perfectly symmetrical. You see the going down towards the fovea where the optic nerve begins. But on my left retina there is a bump, which is marked there by the red arrow. And it corresponds to a little cyst that is located below. And that is exactly what causes the warping of my visual image. So just think of this: you have a grid of neurons, and now you have a plane mechanical change in the position of the grid, and you get a warping of your mental experience. So this is how close your mental experience and the activity of the neurons in the retina, which is a part of the brain located in the eyeball, or, for that matter, a sheet of visual cortex. So from the retina you go onto visual cortex. And of course, the brain adds on a lot of information to what is going on in the signals that come from the retina. And in that image there, you see a variety of islands of what I call image-making regions in the brain. You have the green for example, that corresponds to tactile information, or the blue that corresponds to auditory information. And something else that happens is that those image-making regions where you have the plotting of all these neural maps, can then provide signals to this ocean of purple that you see around, which is the association cortex, where you can make records of what went on in those islands of image-making. And the great beauty is that you can then go from memory, out of those association cortices, and produce back images in the very same regions that have perception. So think about how wonderfully convenient and lazy the brain is. So it provides certain areas for perception and image-making. And those are exactly the same that are going to be used for image-making when we recall information. So far the mystery of the conscious mind is diminishing a little bit because we have a general sense of how we make these images. But what about the self? The self is really the elusive problem. And for a long time, people did not even want to touch it, because they'd say, ""How can you have this reference point, this stability, that is required to maintain the continuity of selves day after day?"" And I thought about a solution to this problem. It's the following. We generate brain maps of the body's interior and use them as the reference for all other maps. So let me tell you just a little bit about how I came to this. I came to this because, if you're going to have a reference that we know as self — the Me, the I in our own processing — we need to have something that is stable, something that does not deviate much from day to day. Well it so happens that we have a singular body. We have one body, not two, not three. And so that is a beginning. There is just one reference point, which is the body. But then, of course, the body has many parts, and things grow at different rates, and they have different sizes and different people; however, not so with the interior. The things that have to do with what is known as our internal milieu — for example, the whole management of the chemistries within our body are, in fact, extremely maintained day after day for one very good reason. If you deviate too much in the parameters that are close to the midline of that life-permitting survival range, you go into disease or death. So we have an in-built system within our own lives that ensures some kind of continuity. I like to call it an almost infinite sameness from day to day. Because if you don't have that sameness, physiologically, you're going to be sick or you're going to die. So that's one more element for this continuity. And the final thing is that there is a very tight coupling between the regulation of our body within the brain and the body itself, unlike any other coupling. So for example, I'm making images of you, but there's no physiological bond between the images I have of you as an audience and my brain. However, there is a close, permanently maintained bond between the body regulating parts of my brain and my own body. So here's how it looks. Look at the region there. There is the brain stem in between the cerebral cortex and the spinal cord. And it is within that region that I'm going to highlight now that we have this housing of all the life-regulation devices of the body. This is so specific that, for example, if you look at the part that is covered in red in the upper part of the brain stem, if you damage that as a result of a stroke, for example, what you get is coma or vegetative state, which is a state, of course, in which your mind disappears, your consciousness disappears. What happens then actually is that you lose the grounding of the self, you have no longer access to any feeling of your own existence, and, in fact, there can be images going on, being formed in the cerebral cortex, except you don't know they're there. You have, in effect, lost consciousness when you have damage to that red section of the brain stem. But if you consider the green part of the brain stem, nothing like that happens. It is that specific. So in that green component of the brain stem, if you damage it, and often it happens, what you get is complete paralysis, but your conscious mind is maintained. You feel, you know, you have a fully conscious mind that you can report very indirectly. This is a horrific condition. You don't want to see it. And people are, in fact, imprisoned within their own bodies, but they do have a mind. There was a very interesting film, one of the rare good films done about a situation like this, by Julian Schnabel some years ago about a patient that was in that condition. So now I'm going to show you a picture. I promise not to say anything about this, except this is to frighten you. It's just to tell you that in that red section of the brain stem, there are, to make it simple, all those little squares that correspond to modules that actually make brain maps of different aspects of our interior, different aspects of our body. They are exquisitely topographic and they are exquisitely interconnected in a recursive pattern. And it is out of this and out of this tight coupling between the brain stem and the body that I believe — and I could be wrong, but I don't think I am — that you generate this mapping of the body that provides the grounding for the self and that comes in the form of feelings — primordial feelings, by the way. So what is the picture that we get here? Look at ""cerebral cortex,"" look at ""brain stem,"" look at ""body,"" and you get the picture of the interconnectivity in which you have the brain stem providing the grounding for the self in a very tight interconnection with the body. And you have the cerebral cortex providing the great spectacle of our minds with the profusion of images that are, in fact, the contents of our minds and that we normally pay most attention to, as we should, because that's really the film that is rolling in our minds. But look at the arrows. They're not there for looks. They're there because there's this very close interaction. You cannot have a conscious mind if you don't have the interaction between cerebral cortex and brain stem. You cannot have a conscious mind if you don't have the interaction between the brain stem and the body. Another thing that is interesting is that the brain stem that we have is shared with a variety of other species. So throughout vertebrates, the design of the brain stem is very similar to ours, which is one of the reasons why I think those other species have conscious minds like we do. Except that they're not as rich as ours, because they don't have a cerebral cortex like we do. That's where the difference is. And I strongly disagree with the idea that consciousness should be considered as the great product of the cerebral cortex. Only the wealth of our minds is, not the very fact that we have a self that we can refer to our own existence, and that we have any sense of person. Now there are three levels of self to consider — the proto, the core and the autobiographical. The first two are shared with many, many other species, and they are really coming out largely of the brain stem and whatever there is of cortex in those species. It's the autobiographical self which some species have, I think. Cetaceans and primates have also an autobiographical self to a certain degree. And everybody's dogs at home have an autobiographical self to a certain degree. But the novelty is here. The autobiographical self is built on the basis of past memories and memories of the plans that we have made; it's the lived past and the anticipated future. And the autobiographical self has prompted extended memory, reasoning, imagination, creativity and language. And out of that came the instruments of culture — religions, justice, trade, the arts, science, technology. And it is within that culture that we really can get — and this is the novelty — something that is not entirely set by our biology. It is developed in the cultures. It developed in collectives of human beings. And this is, of course, the culture where we have developed something that I like to call socio-cultural regulation. And finally, you could rightly ask, why care about this? Why care if it is the brain stem or the cerebral cortex and how this is made? Three reasons. First, curiosity. Primates are extremely curious — and humans most of all. And if we are interested, for example, in the fact that anti-gravity is pulling galaxies away from the Earth, why should we not be interested in what is going on inside of human beings? Second, understanding society and culture. We should look at how society and culture in this socio-cultural regulation are a work in progress. And finally, medicine. Let's not forget that some of the worst diseases of humankind are diseases such as depression, Alzheimer's disease, drug addiction. Think of strokes that can devastate your mind or render you unconscious. You have no prayer of treating those diseases effectively and in a non-serendipitous way if you do not know how this works. So that's a very good reason beyond curiosity to justify what we're doing, and to justify having some interest in what is going on in our brains. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)"	我來這要談的是有關意識的心智的驚奇和神秘。驚奇的是當我們今早起床我們的意識心智也神奇地自動恢復了。我們恢復的心智擁有完整的自我感及一個完整的自我存在感，而我們幾乎不曾停下來思考這驚奇。說實在的，我們應該要，因為沒有這意識心智，我們就沒有任何關於我們人性的知識；我們也將沒有對這個世界的任何知識。我們沒有痛苦，但也沒有歡樂。我們沒有辦法去愛也沒有能力去創造。當然，史考特．費傑羅說過一句名言『他是那個發明了意識的人該被大大地怪罪。』但是他也忘了若沒有意識，他是無法去接觸真正的快樂甚至也失去了卓越的可能。 為這神奇講這麼多，現在來看看神祕。這是一個謎一直是極難被釐清的謎。甚至追溯到早期的哲學當然也貫串了整個神經科學的歷史，這一直都是個謎也一直抗拒著解釋，有著主要的爭論。事實上還有很多人甚至覺得我們不該碰它；我們應該讓它去，它不該被解答。我不信這一套，而且我覺得情況正在改變。這是很荒謬的去宣稱說我們知道意識如何在我們的腦中產生，但我們絕對能開始去著手研究這問題，也可開始看到答案的樣子。 還有另外一個可慶祝的驚奇那就是我們有造影科技現在讓我們能進到人腦中而能做到，舉個例子你現正看到的。這些影像來自漢娜．達馬西歐的實驗室，你可以看到，在一個活的腦裡，腦的重組。這是個活著的人。這不是一個在驗屍的時候才被研究的人。當然還有—讓人非常驚奇的—是我接著要展示給你看的，這發生在腦的表面下真的在看一個活著的腦真實的連結，真實的傳導路徑。所有這些上了色的線會對應到整束的軸突，那些纖維會從神經細胞體連結到突觸。只是很抱歉讓你失望，它們不是彩色的。但無論如何，它們都在那。顏色則標示著方向。可以是從後面到前面或是反過來(從後面到前面)。 那麽，到底什麼是意識？什麼是有意識的心智？我們可以從一個非常簡單的角度來看我們可以說，所謂意識是我們失去的在我們熟睡而不作夢時，或是當我們被麻醉時，醒來後所恢復的東西也就是從睡眠中或是從麻醉中醒來恢復的東西。到底當我們在麻醉中，或是當我們在無夢的沉睡裡，失去的是什麼?這個嘛首先，就是我們的心智，也就是內心影像流。當然我們所謂的這些影像那可以是感官的型式，視覺的，就像是你現在正看到的一樣與講台還有我之間的空間關係。或是聽覺的影像。像是你現在正與我講的話之間的關係。那些流動的內心影像就是心智。 但，還有其它東西是我們在這個空間裡都正在體驗的。我們並非被動的陳列展示者接受著視覺或聽覺或觸覺的影像。我們擁有自我。我們是有一個我那是自主地存在於我們的腦中。我們擁有我們的心智。而且我們可以意識到這是我們每一個人當下都在體驗的 —而不是坐在你隔壁的人在體驗你。所以要有一個具有意識的心智，你的自我需要存在於有意識的心智中。所以有意識的心智指，包含著自我的心智。自我引導我們心智中主觀的看法。唯有這樣我們才是完全的清醒也就是當我們的自我能呈現給心智時。所以光要解這個謎我們必須知道的是，第一點，我們的心智如何在腦中組合。而第二點，是自我是如何建構的。 現在第一個部分，就是第一個問題，是相對簡單的 — 它其實一點也不簡單 —但是在神經科學上已漸漸被研究。而這也是顯而易見的，為了要有心智，我們需建構神經圖譜。所以想像有個格子圖，像你們看到的這個。現在想像，在這格子圖中，有個二維的表，想像神經細胞。接著想像，一個廣告看板，一數位的廣告看板，上面所有的元素可以是亮或不亮。你可以通過讓元素亮或不亮來創造圖案。這數位的元素，或就這來說，是在格子上的神經元，你將能建構一個圖譜。這當然，是我正在展示給你看的視覺圖譜。且這可應用到任一種圖譜 —像是聽覺的，就像與聽覺頻率的關係。或是與我們的皮膚建構的圖譜來描述與我們碰觸的物體之間的關係。 現在回到重點我們想知道—格子裡的神經元間和位置上的排列所活化的神經元還有我們的意象經驗之間的關係 —我將要告訴你一個我自己的故事。所以，如果我遮住我的左眼 —我正在說的是我個人，不是你們全部的人—如果我遮住我的左眼，我看著這個格子—很像我正在展示給你看的。甚麼都是平整且清楚互相垂直的。但是前一陣子，我發現當我遮住我的左眼的時候，我看到的其實是這個。我看著格子而我看到的是扭曲變形在我左視野的邊緣。 很奇怪的—我已經分析這一陣子了。但前些日子，經我一位眼科醫師同事的幫忙，卡門．普利菲都，他發展了一套視網膜的雷射掃描，我發現下面這個。當我掃視我的視網膜你看到在那小角落經過的一個平行平面，我得到的是下面這個。在右手邊，我的視網膜是完整的對稱著。你看這個往視小窩也就是視神經開始的地方。但在我的左視網膜這是有一個凸起，在這裡用紅色的箭頭標示著。而這對應著一個小腫瘤就位在它的下方。那東西就是造成我的視覺影像扭曲變形。 所以就想想這個：你有一格子的神經元，而你現在在格子的位置裏有一平面的力學改變，而你的心智經驗有扭曲變形。所以從這裡可以看到你的心智經驗和神經元在視網膜的活動有多接近，視網膜也就是位於眼球中的部份的腦，或者，在這個例子裏，是一片視覺腦迴。所以從視網膜你繼續傳到視覺的腦迴。而且當然，腦會繼續加入一大堆的訊息給正在發生的事情特別是從視網膜來的訊息。也在那影像那裡，你看到一些不同的腦島那是我稱作腦中影像製造的區域。舉例來說你有綠色的，那會對應到觸覺的訊息，或是藍色的區對應到聽覺訊息。 還有其它發生的是就是這些影像製造區也就是你一開始畫這些神經圖譜的地方，可以接著提供訊號給這些你看到紫色的海的周圍，這裏是腦迴連結，就是你紀錄發生過的事在這些影像製造的腦島的地方。還有真正漂亮的是可以讓你從記憶中，提取出這些連結區的腦迴，再製造出影像在處理感覺的區域。所以想想我們的腦袋是多麼的神奇方便和偷懶。我們的腦提供特定的區域來處理感官知覺與製造影像。而這些是完全一樣的都是準備用來製造影像當我們提取資訊時。 目前為止神奇的意識心智是有點在消退了因為我們對製造這些影像的過程有了整體的概念。但是關於自我呢？自我真的是一個非常難理解的問題。有很長一段時間，人們根本不想去碰它，因為他們會說，『你如何找到一個必要的參考點，一個穩定性，來維持一天接著一天連續的自我？而我為這個問題想到一個解答。就像下面這樣。我們產生腦中關於身體的內部的地圖再把它們當作其它地圖的參考點。 就讓我來透露一點我是怎麼得到這結論的。我得到這個結論因為，如果你將要有個我們叫做自我的參考點 —那個我，本人在我們自己的處理上 —我們需要個穩定的東西，有個不會偏移太多的東西日復一日。而剛好我們有一個單一的身體。我們有一個身體，而不是兩個，不是三個。所以這就是一個開端。唯一的一個參考點，也就是身體。當然，身體是有很多部位的，不同的部位是以不同的速度在成長，大小會不同，異人而已；但是，內在就不是這樣了。與我們已知的內在環境有關的事 —打個比方，整個管理我們身體內的化學是，事實上，極端的被維持著一天又一天這有一個非常好的理由。如果你偏離太多接近中線的參數一旦超過了生命存活所允許的範圍，你就會生病或死亡。所以我們有一個內建的系統存在於我們自己的生命裡那是可以維繫某種程度的延續性。我喜歡稱它作幾乎無限的天天千篇一律。因為如果你沒有這個生理上的千篇一律，你就會生病或是你就會死亡。所以那是這延續性的另一個元素。 接著最後一件事就是有一個非常緊密的連結在控制著我們腦中的身體以及身體本身，這跟其它的連結都不一樣。舉例來說，我正在作一個你的影像，但沒有生理的連結存在在我所作你身為觀眾的影像和我的腦之間。然而，是有一個緊密，永久維持的連結存在於身體調控我部份的腦以及我自己的身體之間。 所以這就是它的樣子。看這裡這個區域。腦幹是在大腦迴和脊髓之間。我現在要強調的也正是在那區域裡我們有這個屏障那包含著所有的生命維持器來調控身體。也是這麼的功能專一，假設，如果你看看這裡標示成紅色的部份在腦幹的上面那一部份，如果你因為，假設中風，而毀損這個區塊，那你就會昏迷或是陷入植物人的狀態，這則是一個狀態，當然，你的心智就消失了，你的意識消失了。接下來真的發生的是你喪失了和自我的接地，你不再能接觸到你的自我存在的感覺，而事實是，那裏還是有影像存在，在大腦迴形成，只是你不知道它們在那裏。你有的，在現實裡，失去了意識當你腦幹中紅色的區塊損壞時。 但如果你考慮腦幹綠色的部分，沒有發生像那樣的情形。那正是如此的功能專一。所以在那腦幹綠色的組成結構，如果你毀損它，而這很常發生，那你就會變得完全癱瘓，但你有意識的心智仍是好的。你有感覺，你也知道，你有完整的意識心智你可以間接的報告出來。這是個很可怕的情形。你不會想看到。而人們其實，就是，被囚禁在他們自己的身體裡。但他們是有心智的。有一個很有趣的影片，是一個難得的好電影關於像這樣的情形，是朱利安‧舒納伯幾年前拍的關於一個病人碰上這樣的情形。 所以現在我要讓你看一張照片。我保證不會說任何跟這有關的事，除了要嚇嚇你。這只是要告訴你在腦幹紅色的區塊，那裏有，簡單來說，所有的小方塊會對應到模組那是可以真的做出腦圖譜的我們內部不同的面向，及我們身體不同的面向。它們在空間上是完全符合的且它們也是以一個回歸模式完全相互連接。而就是從這出來和從這緊密的連結出來的在腦幹和身體之間我所相信的─但我也可能是錯的。只是我不太這麽認爲─你製造這個身體的地圖那可提供我們對自我的接地這會以感覺的型式存在─順便說，是最原始的感覺。 所以我們這裡得到的這個照片是什麼?看看這個大腦迴，看看腦幹，看看那個身體。而你得到一個相互連結的那是你的腦幹為你的自我所提供的接地與身體作一個非常緊密的連結。而你有的大腦迴提供了我們心智一個大的公開展示場充滿著影像那是，事實上，我們心智的組成還有我們一般最常注意到的，而我們也應該要，因為那確實是在我們腦海中滾動撥放的影片。只是看看這個箭頭。他們不是好看用的。他們在那裏是因為那有這個緊密的互動。你不能有意識清楚的心智如果你在大腦迴和腦幹之間沒有互動。你不能有一意識清楚的心智如果你沒有這個互動在腦幹和身體之間。 另一件有趣的事是這個我們擁有的腦幹是其牠種類的生物也有的。所以在脊椎動物中，它們腦幹的設計與我們是非常相似的，這也是其中一個原因為什麼我覺得這些其他的物種也像我們有意識的心智。只是它們不像我們那麼豐富，因為它們沒有我們的大腦迴。那就是差異所在。而我強烈地不同意這個想法說意識應該要被考慮成是大腦迴的主要的產物。只有我們的心智是，而不是因為我們有自我那我們就能推導到我們自我的存在，而我們就有任何身為人的感覺。 現在有三個階段的自我可以考慮─原型，核心，及自傳式的。前面的兩個是共通的在很多、很多不同的物種。而牠們也漸漸的出現。主要是腦幹還有這些物種不論怎麼樣擁有的大腦迴。那是自傳式的自我我覺得是有些物種所有的。鯨類和靈長類也都有某種程度的自傳式自我。而每個人家裡的狗都有某程度的自傳式自我。但新鮮事來了。 自傳式的自我是建構在過去記憶的基礎上還有我們所做計畫的記憶上；它是活著的過去及預測的未來。而自傳式的自我有了及時延長的記憶、推理、想像、創意及語言。而從那得到的，是文化的工具─宗教、正義、貿易、藝術、科學、科技。而它是存在於文化之中的是我們確實能獲得的─這就是新奇的地方─是不被我們的生物完全設定好的東西。它在文化裡發展。它在人類的集體裡發展。而這當然就是，文化是我們已經發展的東西而我想要稱它作社會─文化的調節。 最後，你可以光明正大的問，幹嘛要在乎這?為什麼要在乎它是腦幹或大腦迴和這是怎麼製造的?三個原因。第一，好奇心。靈長類是極端的好奇的─而人類更是所有(靈長類)之最。如果我們有興趣，打個比方，在抗地心引力的事實是拉著銀河遠離地球，為什麼我們不該對正發生的事情感興趣那發生在人類裡的? 第二，了解社會和文化。我們應該要看看社會和文化在這個社會─文化的調節是一個正在進行的工程。最後，醫學。讓我們別忘記一些最糟的疾病那發生在人們身上的疾病像是憂鬱、阿茲海默症、藥物上癮。試想中風會摧毀你的腦袋或是使你變得無意識。你沒有祈禱文能有效的治療這些疾病以一個非僥倖的方式如果你不知道這是怎麼做到的。所以那正是個很好的理由超越好奇心去辯證我們正在做的事。去辯證我們對我們腦正發生的事感興趣。 謝謝你的聆聽。 (鼓掌)
