Talk	en	zh-tw
anupam_mishra_the_ancient_ingenuity_of_water_harvesting	"For emotions, we should not move quickly to the desert. So, first, a small housekeeping announcement: please switch off your proper English check programs installed in your brain. (Applause) So, welcome to the Golden Desert, Indian desert. It receives the least rainfall in the country, lowest rainfall. If you are well-versed with inches, nine inches, centimeters, 16 [centimeters]. The groundwater is 300 feet deep, 100 meters. And in most parts it is saline, not fit for drinking. So, you can't install hand pumps or dig wells, though there is no electricity in most of the villages. But suppose you use the green technology, solar pumps — they are of no use in this area. So, welcome to the Golden Desert. Clouds seldom visit this area. But we find 40 different names of clouds in this dialect used here. There are a number of techniques to harvest rain. This is a new work, it's a new program. But for the desert society this is no program; this is their life. And they harvest rain in many ways. So, this is the first device they use in harvesting rain. It's called kunds; somewhere it is called [unclear]. And you can notice they have created a kind of false catchment. The desert is there, sand dunes, some small field. And this is all big raised platform. You can notice the small holes the water will fall on this catchment, and there is a slope. Sometimes our engineers and architects do not care about slopes in bathrooms, but here they will care properly. And the water will go where it should go. And then it is 40 feet deep. The waterproofing is done perfectly, better than our city contractors, because not a single drop should go waste in this. They collect 100 thousand liters in one season. And this is pure drinking water. Below the surface there is hard saline water. But now you can have this for year round. It's two houses. We often use a term called bylaws. Because we are used to get written things. But here it is unwritten by law. And people made their house, and the water storage tanks. These raised up platforms just like this stage. In fact they go 15 feet deep, and collect rain water from roof, there is a small pipe, and from their courtyard. It can also harvest something like 25,000 in a good monsoon. Another big one, this is of course out of the hardcore desert area. This is near Jaipur. This is called the Jaigarh Fort. And it can collect six million gallons of rainwater in one season. The age is 400 years. So, since 400 years it has been giving you almost six million gallons of water per season. You can calculate the price of that water. It draws water from 15 kilometers of canals. You can see a modern road, hardly 50 years old. It can break sometimes. But this 400 year old canal, which draws water, it is maintained for so many generations. Of course if you want to go inside, the two doors are locked. But they can be opened for TED people. (Laughter) And we request them. You can see person coming up with two canisters of water. And the water level — these are not empty canisters — water level is right up to this. It can envy many municipalities, the color, the taste, the purity of this water. And this is what they call Zero B type of water, because it comes from the clouds, pure distilled water. We stop for a quick commercial break, and then we come back to the traditional systems. The government thought that this is a very backward area and we should bring a multi-million dollar project to bring water from the Himalayas. That's why I said that this is a commercial break. (Laughter) But we will come back, once again, to the traditional thing. So, water from 300, 400 kilometers away, soon it become like this. In many portions, water hyacinth covered these big canals like anything. Of course there are some areas where water is reaching, I'm not saying that it is not reaching at all. But the tail end, the Jaisalmer area, you will notice in Bikaner things like this: where the water hyacinth couldn't grow, the sand is flowing in these canals. The bonus is that you can find wildlife around it. (Laughter) We had full-page advertisements, some 30 years, 25 years ago when this canal came. They said that throw away your traditional systems, these new cement tanks will supply you piped water. It's a dream. And it became a dream also. Because soon the water was not able to reach these areas. And people started renovating their own structures. These are all traditional water structures, which we won't be able to explain in such a short time. But you can see that no woman is standing on those. (Laughter) And they are plaiting hair. (Applause) Jaisalmer. This is heart of desert. This town was established 800 years ago. I'm not sure by that time Bombay was there, or Delhi was there, or Chennai was there, or Bangalore was there. So, this was the terminal point for silk route. Well connected, 800 years ago, through Europe. None of us were able to go to Europe, but Jaisalmer was well connected to it. And this is the 16 centimeter area. Such a limited rainfall, and highest colorful life flourished in these areas. You won't find water in this slide. But it is invisible. Somewhere a stream or a rivulet is running through here. Or, if you want to paint, you can paint it blue throughout because every roof which you see in this picture collects rainwater drops and deposit in the rooms. But apart from this system, they designed 52 beautiful water bodies around this town. And what we call private public partnership you can add estate also. So, estate, public and private entrepreneurs work together to build this beautiful water body. And it's a kind of water body for all seasons. You will admire it. Just behold the beauty throughout the year. Whether water level goes up or down, the beauty is there throughout. Another water body, dried up, of course, during the summer period, but you can see how the traditional society combines engineering with aesthetics, with the heart. These statues, marvelous statues, gives you an idea of water table. When this rain comes and the water starts filling this tank, it will submerge these beautiful statues in what we call in English today ""mass communication."" This was for mass communication. Everybody in the town will know that this elephant has drowned, so water will be there for seven months or nine months, or 12 months. And then they will come and worship this pond, pay respect, their gratitude. Another small water body, called the [unclear]. It is difficult to translate in English, especially in my English. But the nearest would be ""glory,"" a reputation. The reputation in desert of this small water body is that it never dries up. In severe drought periods nobody has seen this water body getting dried up. And perhaps they knew the future also. It was designed some 150 years ago. But perhaps they knew that on sixth, November, 2009, there will be a TED green and blue session, so they painted it like this. (Laughter) (Applause) Dry water body. Children are standing on a very difficult device to explain. This is called kund. We have, in English, surface water and ground water. But this is not ground water. You can draw ground water from any well. But this is no ordinary well. It squeeze the moisture hidden in the sand. And they have dubbed this water as the third one called [unclear]. And there is a gypsum belt running below it. And it was deposited by the great mother Earth, some three million years ago. And where we have this gypsum strip they can harvest this water. This is the same dry water body. Now, you don't find any kund; they are all submerged. But when the water goes down they will be able to draw water from those structures throughout the year. This year they have received only six centimeters. Six centimeter of rainfall, and they can telephone you that if you find any water problem in your city, Delhi, Bombay, Bangalore, Mysore, please come to our area of six centimeters, we can give you water. (Laughter) How they maintain them? There are three things: concept, planning, making the actual thing, and also maintaining them. It is a structure for maintain, for centuries, by generations, without any department, without any funding, So the secret is ""[unclear],"" respect. Your own thing, not personal property, my property, every time. So, these stone pillars will remind you that you are entering into a water body area. Don't spit, don't do anything wrong, so that the clean water can be collected. Another pillar, stone pillar on your right side. If you climb these three, six steps you will find something very nice. This was done in 11th century. And you have to go further down. They say that a picture is worth a thousand words, so we can say a thousand words right now, an another thousand words. If the water table goes down, you will find new stairs. If it comes up, some of them will be submerged. So, throughout the year this beautiful system will give you some pleasure. Three sides, such steps, on the fourth side there is a four-story building where you can organize such TED conferences anytime. (Applause) Excuse me, who built these structures? They are in front of you. The best civil engineers we had, the best planners, the best architects. We can say that because of them, because of their forefathers, India could get the first engineering college in 1847. There were no English medium schools at that time, even no Hindi schools, [unclear] schools. But such people, compelled to the East India Company, which came here for business, a very dirty kind of business ... (Laughter) but not to create the engineering colleges. But because of them, first engineering college was created in a small village, not in the town. The last point, we all know in our primary schools that that camel is a ship of desert. So, you can find through your Jeep, a camel, and a cart. This tire comes from the airplane. So, look at the beauty from the desert society who can harvest rainwater, and also create something through a tire from a jet plane, and used in a camel cart. Last picture, it's a tattoo, 2,000-years-old tattoo. They were using it on their body. Tattoo was, at one time, a kind of a blacklisted or con thing, but now it is in thing. (Laughter) (Applause) You can copy this tattoo. I have some posters of this. (Laughter) The center of life is water. These are the beautiful waves. These are the beautiful stairs which we just saw in one of the slides. These are the trees. And these are the flowers which add fragrance to our lives. So, this is the message of desert. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: So, first of all, I wish I had your eloquence, truly, in any language. (Applause) These artifacts and designs are inspiring. Do you believe that they can be used elsewhere, that the world can learn from this? Or is this just right for this place? Anupam Mishra: No, the basic idea is to utilize water that falls on our area. So, the ponds, the open bodies, are everywhere, right from Sri Lanka to Kashmir, and in other parts also. And these [unclear], which stored water, there are two type of things. One recharge, and one stores. So, it depends on the terrain. But kund, which uses the gypsum belt, for that you have to go back to your calendar, three million years ago. If it is there it can be done right now. Otherwise, it can't be done. (Laughter) (Applause) CA: Thank you so much. (Applause)"	從個人感情上來講，我建議我們先別立即轉到沙漠的討論中。先來一點作為本場演講人的聲明：麻煩在座各位關掉你們大腦中固有的標準英語校對程序，把注意力從我的英語表達上轉移走。（掌聲） 好的，接下來就歡迎大家來到這片印度的黃金沙漠。這片沙漠是印度每年降雨量最少的地區。如果你熟悉用英吋來衡量的話，降雨量大概只有9英吋，用公分來衡量的話，大約不到23公分。地下水有30英呎深，大約100米。而大多數地下水是鹽水，無法飲用的。這一地區的大多數村莊沒有通電，因此，也無法安裝水泵或者挖井。如果你想到可以用類似太陽能這樣的綠色能源技術來實現，但是在這個區域卻行不通。 其實在這片金色沙漠中，很少會出現陰雲密佈的天氣。但是這裡的方言有40種不同雲的叫法。沒錯，的確有些技術可以收集雨水。這是一種新的方法，或者説新項目。但是對於沙漠而言，這可不是什麼實驗項目，這就是沙漠上人的生活。他們有很多收集雨水的辦法。這個就是他們一開始用來收穫雨水的裝置。這個裝置叫做昆德（kunds），有些地方也叫xxx（聽不清楚）。 你會發現他們造了人工蓄水池。沙漠和沙坵依然存在，只有一小片田地。這一些片田地可是需要花很大力氣維護的可以看到這裏有一些小洞，水流到這些蓄水池上，然後順著斜坡流下去。現代的一些工程師和建築師都不太在意浴室裡的斜坡了，可是以前當地人卻正確地利用了斜坡。這樣水就會順勢流去。而且通常都可以存儲大約40呎深。那裏的防止漏水工作做的很好，真的好過我們現在城市里的那些承包商們，因為對他們來説，任何一滴水都不能浪費。 他們當時每個季節能存十萬升水。而且這些都是可以飲用的純淨水。地表以下卻是含鹽的硬水。但是有了這些儲水裝置後，一年內都能有飲用水。這有兩幢房子。我們經常用一個詞，叫做“法律規定”。我們習慣把這些規定都寫下來，但是也有法律種沒有規定的。人們建造自己的房子和蓄水池。這些凸起的臺子就像這個平臺一樣。事實上，這些臺子有15呎深，從屋頂收集雨水，而且這裏有一根從花園里傳出來的小管子。只要碰到雨量丰富的季節，也可以收穫大約兩萬五千升水。 另一個大的蓄水池，當然這個也是從沙漠中來的，离齋普爾很近，這地方叫做齋普爾要塞。它一個雨季就可以收集六百萬加侖的雨水。它已經有400多年的歷史了。這麼看來，從四百年前它就開始每季提供六百萬加侖的水給我們。你可以算算這說的價格不菲啊。它從15公裡以外的運河引水而來。 看看現在那些公路，還不到50年，就經常損壞了。但這條400年的引水老運河經歷這麼多年代還依然完好無損。當然你會想進進去看看，這兩扇門卻緊關着。但是他們可能會為TED的觀眾爾開的。(笑聲)當然，這是我們申請下來的。在圖上可以看到一個人提著兩桶水上來了。可不是兩個空桶啊，正好慢慢兩桶水。很多市民都會羨慕這水的顔色，味道和它的純凈。這就是他們稱之為零B型的水，因為它來自雲端，是經過萃取的純凈水。 我們停下來稍作廣告休息，然後就再回到了那些傳統的系統中去。政府認為這裏是個發展非常緩慢的地區，我們可以引進一項幾百萬美金的項目建造從喜馬拉雅山脈引水的工程。這就是為什麼我說這只是個廣告。（笑聲）但是我們還會再回來探討的，就為了那些傳統的東西。那麽，來自三十萬零四百公裡以外的水很快將變成這樣。在很大程度上，鳳眼蘭完全的蔓延着這些巨大的引水渠生長。 當然了，這些是有引來的水可以覆蓋到的地區，我也不是説這樣引水來完全沒有用。但是在引水道的末端，也就是斋沙默尔地區，你會在比卡內爾發現這樣的事情：鳳眼蘭根本無法生長，沙子卻流進了運河道。值得慶幸的是，這附近卻出現了野生動物。（笑聲） 大約30年，或者25年前，當這些運河剛剛建成的時候，我們用了整夜的廣告來宣傳。勸告人們放棄這些傳統的蓄水係統，這些水泥蓄水池可以提供管道運來的水。這的確是個夢，但是夢想成真了。因為很快這些水將無法到達這些區域。人們要開始革新他們以前來的蓄水結構了。 這些就是傳統的蓄水結構，我們無法在短時間內詳細解釋。但是你可以看到一個女人正站在蓄水池上面。（笑聲）她們在梳辮子呢。（掌聲）斋沙默尔是這片沙漠的核心地帶。這座城鎮建於800年前。我不知道那時候，孟買， 德立，金奈，甚至班加羅爾是否已經誕生。 而且，這裡是絲綢之路的終點。這裏800年前就聯通了歐洲。當時的人們都無法到達歐洲。但是斋沙默尔已經很好的和歐洲聯通了。這個地區的降雨量是16公分。如此有限的降雨量卻孕育這片地區無比豐富多彩的生活。雖然你在這個幻燈片中看不到水，但是它卻隱含其中。某些地方的小河或者小溪穿過這片地區。如果你想把這一地區畫下來，你可以整個畫成藍色，因為你在這照片中看得到的房頂都可以收集雨水滴然後在屋裡儲存。 除了這些儲水系統外，他們還在這個城鎮周圍建了52處美麗的儲水建築。我們把他們叫做公私合營你自己也可以加入。因此，房產開發商，公共事業和私人企業合作建造了這片美麗的儲水体。而且這片儲水區可以一年四季儲水。你可以好好欣賞它，仔細觀察它的四季之美。不管水面上升還是下降，它都一致美麗如常。 這是另一個儲水池，沒錯，已經在夏季的時候乾涸了，但是你依然可以看到傳統的社會用心的將工程學和美學結合起來了。這些彫塑，了不起的彫塑，向你標識出地下水位的位置。當有雨降落，水開始填入這些蓄水池的時候，將淹沒這些美麗的彫塑在當代英語中，我們把這些彫塑叫做“大眾傳媒工具”。這就是做為大眾傳媒工具而用的。城鎮中的每個人都知道這只大像被淹沒了，因此存儲的水可以用七到九個月，甚至十二個月。接著他們將會前來膜拜這個池塘，以示尊敬和感激。 另一個小的蓄水池，叫做“傑斯體”（聽音）。這個名字很難被翻譯成英語，特別是以我的英語水平。但是最近的一個意思就是“繁榮”，這是一種殊榮啊。它在這片沙漠中享有這種殊榮就是因為它從來沒有乾涸過。即使在非常嚴重的旱災期也沒人看到過這片蓄水池乾涸過。或許它也通曉未來。這是大約150年前設計的。但是或許當時的設計者知道在2009年11月6日，這裡將舉辦一場TED藍綠會議，因此他們就把它畫成了這樣。（笑聲）（掌聲） 這是一個乾涸的蓄水池，孩子們站在這個很難解釋清楚的裝置上面。這叫做“昆德（kund）”。在英語中，我們有地表水和地下水的說法。但是這並不是地下水。從任何井裡都可以獲取地下水。但這不是個普通的井。它是搾取藏在沙子里的水份的。他們授予這片水域是第三個“黑加泥”（聽音譯）。在這個井下面有一條石膏帶。而且這里的水直接經過了地球母親的沉澱，這都是大約三百年前的水了。哪裡有這種石膏帶，他們就能在哪里收穫這些水。 這也是一個乾涸的儲水池。如今，已經找不到一個昆德（kund）了，他們已經被水淹沒了。但是一旦水流入蓄水池，他們就能整年的從蓄水池中吸取水資源。今年，他們只得到了6公分的降水。即使只有六公分的降水量，他們也會給你打電話詢問你所在的城市是否有任何水利用問題。德裡，孟買，班加羅爾，邁索爾，如果你那裡的供水有問題，請給我們這個只有六公分降雨量的地方打電話，我們可以給你水用。（笑聲） 他們是如何堅持下去的呢？有三個方面：觀念，計划，製造實體 與維護實體。他們就這樣保持了幾個世紀，代代相傳，沒有任何政府部門和資金的支持。因此秘訣就在於“佛塌”（印度語音譯），也就是尊重。你自己的財產，不是私人財產就是我的財產，所以隨時我都會尊重它。 這些石柱會提示你正在進入一片儲水區。別隨地吐痰，別做任何不該做的事情，這樣才能保持收集到乾淨的水。這是另一個石柱，就在你的右手邊。當你爬上三層或者六層台階，你會發現一些很美妙的事情。這些圖形是11世界建造的。你還要再走下去一些。有人說這樣一幅圖千言萬語也難以描述，那麽我們現在就一千字一千字的來形容它。如果地下水位降低，你就會看到新的台階浮出水面。如果地下水位上漲，一些檯階就會被淹沒。因此，整整一年這種美麗的建筑係統都可以給你帶來歡樂。這個水池的三面都是有這樣的檯階組成，在第四面有一個四層的結構，你可以隨時在哪裡舉辦TED會議。（掌聲） 不好意思問一下啊，是誰建造了這些結構呢？他們就在你面前。我們最優秀的民間工程師，最好的策劃人，也是最好的建築師。我可以說正是因為他們，因為他們的祖先們，印度才會在1847年就成立了第一所工程大學。那時候還沒有英語授課的中學，也沒有北印度語授課學校。但是這些人唾棄東印度公司盡做的是一些骯髒的生意。（笑聲）他們才不是來建立工程學校的，但是因為他們才能在一個連城鎮都算不上的小村庄建立了第一所工程大學。 最后一點，我們小學就知道了駱駝是沙漠之船。因此，通過吉普車，你能看到一直駱駝和一輛推車。這個輪胎是從飛機上卸下來的。所以，來看看沙漠社會之美吧。這裏可以收集雨水，可以創造很多東西，可以把一個噴氣式飛機的輪胎拿來做駱駝拉車。 最后一張照片，這是一個紋身，一個2000年前的紋身。他們把紋身紋在身上。曾經，紋身被列在黑名單中，或者是一種欺騙的表現，而如今則是流行文化。（笑聲）（掌聲）你們大家可以來複制這個紋身，我這兒有一些這樣的海報。（笑聲）這個紋身顯示了，生命的中心是水。這些是美麗的波紋。這些是我們在剛才的幻燈片中看到的好看的台階。這些是樹木。這些是花朵，給我們的生活帶來了芳香。這就是沙漠的寓意。非常感謝大家。（鼓掌） 克裡斯·安德森：首先，我真希望我能有您這樣的口才，真的，不管是什麼語言。（掌聲）這些人造的裝置和設計讓我們深受靈感的啓發。你覺得這些裝置是否可以用在其他地方，世界其他國家可以由此借鑒呢？還是説這種儲水裝置只能在這個地方用呢？ 阿努潘·米什拉：不是的，這個裝置最基本的想法就是利用落到我們地區的降水。因此，池塘，開放的儲水池到處都有，不僅僅是從斯里蘭卡到克什米爾，其他地方也有。這些蓄水裝置存儲降水，一般有兩種方式。一種是可再充水的，一種是簡單的存儲。這取決于當地的地形。但是昆德（kund），是要用到石膏帶的，這樣的話，你就需要讓時間倒流，回到三百万年前去。如果某一地區現在就有這樣的石膏帶，那麽就能馬上利用了。否則，就無法使用。（笑聲）（掌聲） 克裡斯·安德森：非常感謝您。（掌聲）
