Talk	en	zh-tw
apollo_robbins_the_art_of_misdirection	Do you think it's possible to control someone's attention? Even more than that, what about predicting human behavior? I think those are interesting ideas. For me, that would be the perfect superpower, actually kind of an evil way of approaching it. But for myself, in the past, I've spent the last 20 years studying human behavior from a rather unorthodox way: picking pockets. When we think of misdirection, we think of something as looking off to the side, when actually the things right in front of us are often the hardest to see, the things that you look at every day that you're blinded to. For example, how many of you still have your cell phones on you right now? Great. Double-check. Make sure you still have them. I was doing some shopping before. (Laughter) You've looked at them a few times today, but I'll ask you a question. Without looking at it directly yet, can you remember the icon in the bottom right corner? Bring them out, check and see how accurate you were. How'd you do? Show of hands. Did we get it? Now that you're done, close them down. Every phone has something in common. No matter how you organize the icons, you still have a clock on the front. So, without looking at your phone, what time was it? You just looked at your clock, right? Interesting idea. Let's take that a step further with a game of trust. Close your eyes. I realize I'm asking you to do that while you just heard there's a pickpocket in the room, but close your eyes. Now, you've been watching me for about 30 seconds. With your eyes closed, what am I wearing? Make your best guess. What color is my shirt? What color is my tie? Now open your eyes. Show of hands, were you right? Interesting, isn't it? Some of us are a little bit more perceptive than others, it seems. But I have a different theory about that model of attention. They have fancy models of attention, Posner's trinity model of attention. For me, I like to think of it very simple, like a surveillance system. It's kind of like you have all these fancy sensors, and inside your brain is a little security guard. For me, I like to call him Frank. So Frank is sitting at a desk. He's got lots of cool information in front of him, high-tech equipment, he's got cameras, he's got a little phone that he can pick up, listen to the ears, all these senses, all these perceptions. But attention is what steers your perceptions, it's what controls your reality. It's the gateway to the mind. If you don't attend to something, you can't be aware of it. But ironically, you can attend to something without being aware of it. For example, the cocktail effect: You're in a party, having conversations with someone, and yet you can recognize your name without realizing you were listening to that. Now, for my job, I have to play with techniques to exploit this, to play with your attention as a limited resource. So if I could control how you spend your attention, if I could maybe steal your attention through a distraction. Now, instead of doing it like misdirection and throwing it off to the side, instead, what I choose to focus on is Frank, to be able to play with the Frank inside your head, your security guard, and get you, instead of focusing on your external senses, just to go internal for a second. So if I ask you to access a memory, like, what is that? What just happened? Do you have a wallet? Do you have an American Express in your wallet? And when I do that, your Frank turns around. He accesses the file. He has to rewind the tape. What's interesting is, he can't rewind the tape at the same time that he's trying to process new data. This sounds like a good theory, but I could talk for a long time, tell you lots of things, and a portion of them may be true, but I think it's better if I tried to show that to you here live. If I come down, I'm going to do a bit of shopping. Just hold still where you are. Hello, how are you? It's lovely to see you. Wonderful job onstage. Lovely watch, it doesn't come off very well. Do you have a ring as well? Good. Just taking inventory. You're like a buffet. Hard to tell where to start, so many great things. Hi, how are you? Good to see you. Hi, sir, could you stand up, please? Just right where you are. You're married, you follow directions well. Nice to meet you, sir. You don't have a lot in your pockets. Anything down here? Hopefully so. Have a seat. There you go. You're doing well. Hi, sir, how are you? Good to see you, sir. You have a ring, a watch. Do you have a wallet on you? Joe: I don't. AR: Well, we'll find one for you. Come on up this way, Joe. Give Joe a round of applause. Come on up, Joe. Let's play a game. (Applause) AR: Pardon me. I don't think I need this clicker anymore. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Come on up to the stage, Joe. Let's play a little game now. Anything in your front pockets? J: Money. AR: Money! All right, let's try that. Can you stand right over this way for me? Turn around and, let's see, if I give you something that belongs to me, this is just something I have, a poker chip. Hold out your hand for me. Watch it closely. This is a task for you to focus on. You have your money in your front pocket? J: Yup. AR: Good. I won't put my hand in your pocket. I'm not ready for that kind of commitment. Once a guy had a hole in his pocket, and that was rather traumatizing for me. I wanted his wallet, he gave me his number. Big miscommunication. (Laughter) Let's do this simply. Squeeze your hand tight. Do you feel the poker chip in your hand? J: I do. AR: Would you be surprised if I took it? Say yes. J: Very. AR: Good. Open your hand. Thank you very much. I'll cheat if you give me a chance. Make it harder for me. Just use your hand. Grab my wrist, but squeeze, squeeze firm. Did you see it go? Joe: No. AR: No, it's not here. Open your hand. While we're focused on the hand, it's sitting on your shoulder. Go ahead and take it off. Now, let's try that again. Hold your hand out flat. Open it up. Put your hand up a little bit higher, but watch it close. If I did it slowly, it'd be on your shoulder. (Laughter) Joe, we're going to keep doing this till you catch it. You'll get it eventually. I have faith in you. Squeeze firm. You're human, you're not slow. It's back on your shoulder. You were focused on your hand, distracted. While you were watching, I couldn't get your watch off. Yet you had something inside your pocket. Do you remember what it was? J: Money. AR: Check your pocket. Is it still there? (Laughter) Oh, there it was. Put it away. We're just shopping. This trick's more about the timing. I'm going to try to push it inside your hand. Put your other hand on top, would you? It's amazingly obvious now, isn't it? Looks a lot like the watch I was wearing, doesn't it? (Laughter) (Applause) J: That's pretty good. AR: Oh, thanks. (Applause) But it's only a start. Let's try it a little bit differently. Hold your hands together. Your other hand on top. If you're watching this little token, this obviously has become a little target, like a red herring. If we watch this kind of close, it looks like it goes away. It's not back on your shoulder. It falls out of the air, lands right back in the hand. Did you see it go? Yeah, funny. We've got a little guy. He's union, works up there all day. If I do it slowly it goes straight away, it lands by your pocket. Is it in this pocket, sir? Don't reach in your pocket. That's a different show. (Squeaking) That's rather strange. They have shots for that. Can I show them? Rather bizarre. Is this yours, sir? I have no idea how that works. We'll send that over there. I need help with this one. Step over this way for me. Don't run away. You had something down by your pants pocket. I was checking mine. I couldn't find everything, but I noticed you had something here. Can I feel the outside for a moment? Down here I noticed this. Is this something of yours, sir? I have no idea. That's a shrimp. J: Yeah. I'm saving it for later. AR: You've entertained all of these people in a wonderful way, better than you know. So we'd love to give you this lovely watch as a gift. (Laughter) Hopefully it matches his taste. We have a couple of other things, a little bit of cash. And we have a few other things, these all belong to you, along with a big round of applause from all your friends. (Applause) Joe, thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause ends) So, same question I asked you before, but this time you don't have to close your eyes. What am I wearing? Audience: Oh! (Laughter) (Hesitant applause) (Applause ends) Attention is a powerful thing. Like I said, it shapes your reality. So, I guess I'd like to pose that question to you. If you could control somebody's attention, what would you do with it? Thank you. (Applause)	你覺得我們有可能控制一個人的注意力嗎？甚至預測他人的行為舉止？我想這些想法都很有趣對我來說，那會是完美的超能力甚至有點邪惡對我來說，我花了過去二十年的時間用一種非傳統的方式學習人類行為模式：做扒手當我們想到誤導我們會以為是看錯了地方事實上在我們眼前的東西才是我們最容易忽略的我們每天對許多眼前的東西視而不見 舉例來說，你們之中有多少人還拿著手機？很好，檢查一下確認它們還在你身上我上台前逛了一下你們今天可能已經看了它們數次但我要問你們一些有關它們問題請先不要看你的手機你記得右下角的圖案是什麼嗎？現在，拿出來看看你是否是對的如何？舉起手來你猜對了嗎？ 你查看完了以後，把它關上因為每個手機都有一個共通點無論你如何排放這些圖示前面總是有個時鐘現在，不看手機，你知道幾點了嗎？你不是剛剛才看過時間嗎？這很有趣。現在，我要更進一步和你們玩一個信任的遊戲閉上雙眼我知道當有一個扒手在這裡又要你閉上眼睛是有點過份，但請你和我這樣做 現在，看了我三十秒以後閉上雙眼，你能描述我的打扮嗎？好好猜我的襯衫和領帶是什麼顏色？現在打開雙眼你猜對了嗎？猜對的舉手 很有趣不是嗎？如此看來我們之間的某些人比其他人更有觀察力但對此我有另一種解釋這關於每個人注意力的模式有三種注意力模式波斯納 (Michael Posner) 提出的三種模式對我來說，這就像三種監視系統就像你有許多不同的感知系統在你的腦裡有個安全警衛我都叫他法蘭克法蘭克坐在一張辦公桌前他面前有許多很酷的信息他有尖端技術，他有監視器有個可以接起來的小電話收聽這所有的感知，所有的感覺但注意力會影響你的感受注意力控制你感受到的真實是通往心靈的閘門如果你不注意，你便不會發現諷刺的是，你可以毫無知覺的做一件事這就叫雞尾酒效應：你在派對中和某人說話但你突然聽見有人在附近提到你之前你甚至不知道你在偷聽 我的工作，便是用我微薄的資源用不同技巧來誤導你的注意力如果我可以控制你的注意力我就可以讓你分散和轉移注意力現在，與其誤導你讓你完全分心我選擇從法蘭克下手與你腦中的法蘭克，你的警衛玩一些小遊戲讓你正在處理外部感知的注意力處理一下裡面的事假設我要你回憶一件事，就像，那是什麼？剛才發生什麼事？你有皮夾嗎？皮夾裡有美國運通卡嗎？當我這麼做的時候，法蘭克轉過身去他去找檔案，他必須倒帶有趣的是，他不能一邊倒帶一邊處理新的訊息 這聽起來是個不錯的理論我可以就此和你長談它們有一部分是真實的但我想當場讓你親眼目睹更好現在我要走下來，隨便看看你們都別動 你好嗎？很高興見到你你剛才在台上的表現很不錯你有只很難拿下來的漂亮手錶你的戒指呢？很好，清點一下你就像吃到飽的沙拉吧一樣這麼多好吃的東西，我都不知從何開始了 你好嗎？很高興見到你 先生，你可以起立嗎？站在那裡就可以了你很會服從指示，這是在婚姻裡學到的吧很高興認識你，先生你的口袋裡沒什麼東西，那邊的呢？但願如此請坐下，你的表現很好 先生，你好嗎？很高興見到你，先生你有一隻手錶，一個戒指你身上帶著皮夾嗎？喬：我沒有阿波羅．羅賓斯：好的，我們會幫你找一個上來吧，喬讓我們給喬一點掌聲上來吧，喬讓我們玩個遊戲 （掌聲） 不好意思 我想我不需要換幻燈片了，拿去吧非常謝謝你，我很感謝 上台來吧，喬，讓我們玩一個小遊戲你的口袋裡有東西嗎？喬：現金阿波羅：很好，我們可以用現金試試你可以站過來這裡嗎？轉過來，讓我看看如果我給你一些東西我手上的這個，撲克牌籌碼把手伸出來，仔細看它專注於這個任務你的現金在你前面的這個口袋嗎？喬：是阿波羅：很好，我還不打算把手伸進你的口袋我還沒做好這個心理準備有次我遇見一個口袋有洞的男人把我嚇壞了我在找他的皮夾，他把手機號碼給我整件事就是個大誤會 好的，很簡單，緊握你的手握緊。你可以感覺到手裡的籌碼嗎？喬：可以阿波羅：如果我把它從你手裡拿走你會嚇到嗎？說會喬：非常阿波羅：很好把手張開，非常感謝你如果你給我機會的話，我會作弊別讓我太容易得逞用手抓住我的手腕，用力握緊你看到它消失了嗎？喬：沒有阿波羅：沒有，它不在這裡，張開手你看，當我們注意手的時候它其實在你的肩膀上把它拿下來吧現在，再試一次把你的手張開，整隻放直把你的手抬高一點，但專心看著，喬如果我慢慢來，它又回到你的肩膀了（笑聲）喬，我們要一直反覆做直到你能捉到它為止你終究可以的，我對你有信心握緊，你是人類，你學得很快又回到你的肩膀了你走神是因為你把注意力放在手上當你看著它的時候，很難把你的手錶脫下來但你前面口袋不是有某些東西嗎？你還記得是什麼嗎？喬：現金阿波羅：檢查一下，還在嗎？（笑聲）原來它在那啊，把它拿走吧我們只是逛逛祕訣是抓住對的時間我要試著把它塞進你的手你可以把另一手放在我的手上，好嗎？一切都這樣顯而易見，不是嗎？它看起來就像是我手上戴的這隻，不是嗎？ （笑聲）（掌聲） 喬：很厲害，很厲害阿波羅：哦，謝謝但我們才剛開始再試一次，這次有點不同把手放在一起，一手在另一手上現在看著這個籌碼它已經變成我們的目標了，像個箭靶如果我們近看它，看上去就像它走了但不是回到你肩膀上它從天而降，降落到你手心你看到它去哪了嗎？有趣吧，我們請了一個傢伙，他整天都待在上面如果我慢慢來，它就會直接到你的口袋裡是在這個口袋嗎？先生哦不，不要把手伸進口袋，會變成另一種表演（玩具擠壓聲）真奇怪或許你該去打針我可以給他們看嗎？有點怪不是嗎，先生這是你的嗎？我實在不知道是怎麼回事還是把它拿起來吧 很好，現在我需要幫助請你站到那邊好嗎？別跑走啊，你的口袋裡有些東西我找過我的了，什麼也找不到但我注意到你有些什麼我可以摸摸你的口袋外嗎？我注意到了這個，這是你的嗎，先生？是嗎？我真想不到，是條蝦 喬：是啊，我本來打算晚點吃的 阿波羅：你讓這些在座的觀眾都很開心比你想像的還要開心我們想送你一隻手錶作為禮物（笑聲）希望它符合他的品味還有些其它的東西一些現金，還有一些其它的東西這些都是你的在座的朋友奉獻的這些掌聲也是（掌聲） 真的很謝謝你，喬 （掌聲） 之前我所問你的同一個問題但這次你不用閉上眼我穿著什麼？ （笑聲） （掌聲） 注意力是很重要的如我所說，它影響了你對真實世界的看法於是，我想問在座各位的是如果你能控制一個人的注意力你會怎麼使用它？ 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
