Talk	en	zh-tw
ari_wallach_3_ways_to_plan_for_the_very_long_term	"So I've been ""futuring,"" which is a term I made up — (Laughter) about three seconds ago. I've been futuring for about 20 years, and when I first started, I would sit down with people, and say, ""Hey, let's talk 10, 20 years out."" And they'd say, ""Great."" And I've been seeing that time horizon get shorter and shorter and shorter, so much so that I met with a CEO two months ago and I said — we started our initial conversation. He goes, ""I love what you do. I want to talk about the next six months."" (Laughter) We have a lot of problems that we are facing. These are civilizational-scale problems. The issue though is, we can't solve them using the mental models that we use right now to try and solve these problems. Yes, a lot of great technical work is being done, but there is a problem that we need to solve for a priori, before, if we want to really move the needle on those big problems. ""Short-termism."" Right? There's no marches. There's no bracelets. There's no petitions that you can sign to be against short-termism. I tried to put one up, and no one signed. It was weird. (Laughter) But it prevents us from doing so much. Short-termism, for many reasons, has pervaded every nook and cranny of our reality. I just want you to take a second and just think about an issue that you're thinking, working on. It could be personal, it could be at work or it could be move-the-needle world stuff, and think about how far out you tend to think about the solution set for that. Because short-termism prevents the CEO from buying really expensive safety equipment. It'll hurt the bottom line. So we get the Deepwater Horizon. Short-termism prevents teachers from spending quality one-on-one time with their students. So right now in America, a high school student drops out every 26 seconds. Short-termism prevents Congress — sorry if there's anyone in here from Congress — (Laughter) or not really that sorry — (Laughter) from putting money into a real infrastructure bill. So what we get is the I-35W bridge collapse over the Mississippi a few years ago, 13 killed. It wasn't always like this. We did the Panama Canal. We pretty much have eradicated global polio. We did the transcontinental railroad, the Marshall Plan. And it's not just big, physical infrastructure problems and issues. Women's suffrage, the right to vote. But in our short-termist time, where everything seems to happen right now and we can only think out past the next tweet or timeline post, we get hyper-reactionary. So what do we do? We take people who are fleeing their war-torn country, and we go after them. We take low-level drug offenders, and we put them away for life. And then we build McMansions without even thinking about how people are going to get between them and their job. It's a quick buck. Now, the reality is, for a lot of these problems, there are some technical fixes, a lot of them. I call these technical fixes sandbag strategies. So you know there's a storm coming, the levee is broken, no one's put any money into it, you surround your home with sandbags. And guess what? It works. Storm goes away, the water level goes down, you get rid of the sandbags, and you do this storm after storm after storm. And here's the insidious thing. A sandbag strategy can get you reelected. A sandbag strategy can help you make your quarterly numbers. Now, if we want to move forward into a different future than the one we have right now, because I don't think we've hit — 2016 is not peak civilization. (Laughter) There's some more we can do. But my argument is that unless we shift our mental models and our mental maps on how we think about the short, it's not going to happen. So what I've developed is something called ""longpath,"" and it's a practice. And longpath isn't a kind of one-and-done exercise. I'm sure everyone here at some point has done an off-site with a lot of Post-It notes and whiteboards, and you do — no offense to the consultants in here who do that — and you do a long-term plan, and then two weeks later, everyone forgets about it. Right? Or a week later. If you're lucky, three months. It's a practice because it's not necessarily a thing that you do. It's a process where you have to revisit different ways of thinking for every major decision that you're working on. So I want to go through those three ways of thinking. So the first: transgenerational thinking. I love the philosophers: Plato, Socrates, Habermas, Heidegger. I was raised on them. But they all did one thing that didn't actually seem like a big deal until I really started kind of looking into this. And they all took, as a unit of measure for their entire reality of what it meant to be virtuous and good, the single lifespan, from birth to death. But here's a problem with these issues: they stack up on top of us, because the only way we know how to do something good in the world is if we do it between our birth and our death. That's what we're programmed to do. If you go to the self-help section in any bookstore, it's all about you. Which is great, unless you're dealing with some of these major issues. And so with transgenerational thinking, which is really kind of transgenerational ethics, you're able to expand how you think about these problems, what is your role in helping to solve them. Now, this isn't something that just has to be done at the Security Council chamber. It's something that you can do in a very kind of personal way. So every once in a while, if I'm lucky, my wife and I like to go out to dinner, and we have three children under the age of seven. So you can imagine it's a very peaceful, quiet meal. (Laughter) So we sit down and literally all I want to do is just eat and chill, and my kids have a completely and totally different idea of what we're going to be doing. And so my first idea is my sandbag strategy, right? It's to go into my pocket and take out the iPhone and give them ""Frozen"" or some other bestselling game thing. And then I stop and I have to kind of put on this transgenerational thinking cap. I don't do this in the restaurant, because it would be bizarre, but I have to — I did it once, and that's how I learned it was bizarre. (Laughter) And you have to kind of think, ""OK, I can do this."" But what is this teaching them? So what does it mean if I actually bring some paper or engage with them in conversation? It's hard. It's not easy, and I'm making this very personal. It's actually more traumatic than some of the big issues that I work on in the world — entertaining my kids at dinner. But what it does is it connects them here in the present with me, but it also — and this is the crux of transgenerational thinking ethics — it sets them up to how they're going to interact with their kids and their kids and their kids. Second, futures thinking. When we think about the future, 10, 15 years out, give me a vision of what the future is. You don't have to give it to me, but think in your head. And what you're probably going to see is the dominant cultural lens that dominates our thinking about the future right now: technology. So when we think about the problems, we always put it through a technological lens, a tech-centric, a techno-utopia, and there's nothing wrong with that, but it's something that we have to really think deeply about if we're going to move on these major issues, because it wasn't always like this. Right? The ancients had their way of thinking about what the future was. The Church definitely had their idea of what the future could be, and you could actually pay your way into that future. Right? And luckily for humanity, we got the scientific revolution. From there, we got the technology, but what has happened — And by the way, this is not a critique. I love technology. Everything in my house talks back to me, from my children to my speakers to everything. (Laughter) But we've abdicated the future from the high priests in Rome to the high priests of Silicon Valley. So when we think, well, how are we going to deal with climate or with poverty or homelessness, our first reaction is to think about it through a technology lens. And look, I'm not advocating that we go to this guy. I love Joel, don't get me wrong, but I'm not saying we go to Joel. What I'm saying is we have to rethink our base assumption about only looking at the future in one way, only looking at it through the dominant lens. Because our problems are so big and so vast that we need to open ourselves up. So that's why I do everything in my power not to talk about the future. I talk about futures. It opens the conversation again. So when you're sitting and thinking about how do we move forward on this major issue — it could be at home, it could be at work, it could be again on the global stage — don't cut yourself off from thinking about something beyond technology as a fix because we're more concerned about technological evolution right now than we are about moral evolution. And unless we fix for that, we're not going to be able to get out of short-termism and get to where we want to be. The final, telos thinking. This comes from the Greek root. Ultimate aim and ultimate purpose. And it's really asking one question: to what end? When was the last time you asked yourself: To what end? And when you asked yourself that, how far out did you go? Because long isn't long enough anymore. Three, five years doesn't cut it. It's 30, 40, 50, 100 years. In Homer's epic, ""The Odyssey,"" Odysseus had the answer to his ""what end."" It was Ithaca. It was this bold vision of what he wanted — to return to Penelope. And I can tell you, because of the work that I'm doing, but also you know it intuitively — we have lost our Ithaca. We have lost our ""to what end,"" so we stay on this hamster wheel. And yes, we're trying to solve these problems, but what comes after we solve the problem? And unless you define what comes after, people aren't going to move. The businesses — this isn't just about business — but the businesses that do consistently, who break out of short-termism not surprisingly are family-run businesses. They're transgenerational. They're telos. They think about the futures. And this is an ad for Patek Philippe. They're 175 years old, and what's amazing is that they literally embody this kind of longpathian sense in their brand, because, by the way, you never actually own a Patek Philippe, and I definitely won't — (Laughter) unless somebody wants to just throw 25,000 dollars on the stage. You merely look after it for the next generation. So it's important that we remember, the future, we treat it like a noun. It's not. It's a verb. It requires action. It requires us to push into it. It's not this thing that washes over us. It's something that we actually have total control over. But in a short-term society, we end up feeling like we don't. We feel like we're trapped. We can push through that. Now I'm getting more comfortable in the fact that at some point in the inevitable future, I will die. But because of these new ways of thinking and doing, both in the outside world and also with my family at home, and what I'm leaving my kids, I get more comfortable in that fact. And it's something that a lot of us are really uncomfortable with, but I'm telling you, think it through. Apply this type of thinking and you can push yourself past what's inevitably very, very uncomfortable. And it all begins really with yourself asking this question: What is your longpath? But I ask you, when you ask yourself that now or tonight or behind a steering wheel or in the boardroom or the situation room: push past the longpath, quick, oh, what's my longpath the next three years or five years? Try and push past your own life if you can because it makes you do things a little bit bigger than you thought were possible. Yes, we have huge, huge problems out there. With this process, with this thinking, I think we can make a difference. I think you can make a difference, and I believe in you guys. Thank you. (Applause)"	我一直在「未來」著。這是我發明的詞彙── （笑聲） 大約三秒前想到的。我一直在「未來」著 20 年後的事；我開始這樣做時，我會坐在別人身旁，說：「嗨，我們不如談談 10 年、20 年後的事。」他們都說：「好啊。」此後我就一直見到時間範圍變得愈來愈短，愈來愈短，甚至在兩個月前我跟一名執行長見面時也見到。我們開始初次對談後，他隨後說：「我喜歡你做的事情。我想談談未來六個月的情況。」 （笑聲） 我們面對很多問題。這些都是文明規模的問題。但問題在於，我們無法利用目前使用的心智模式去嘗試解決這些問題。沒錯，很多出色的技術性工作在進行中，但問題在於如果我們真的要使事情明顯改變，我們就需要採用先驗方式去解決問題。「短期主義」。對吧﹖沒有任何遊行，沒有任何示威。沒有反對短期主義的請願讓你參加。我曾嘗試發起一場這樣的請願，但沒有人參加。實在奇怪。 （笑聲） 但它使我們避免做得太多。短期主義因為種種原因已經滲入現實中的每個角落。我只想各位花一秒鐘，想想自己正在思考、處理甚麼問題。它可以是個人的，也可以是工作上的，也可以是明顯改變世界的事情，並想想自己在思考解決辦法時通常會想到多遠。 執行長因為短期主義沒有購買非常昂貴的安全裝置。購買了就會減損淨利潤。所以我們有「深水地平線」漏油事故。教師因為短期主義沒有用心的跟他們的學生一對一相處。所以在當今的美國，每 26 秒就有一名高中學生輟學。國會因為短期主義沒有……如果在座有來自國會的人，很抱歉。 （笑聲） 其實不是很抱歉。 （笑聲） 沒有撥款到真正的基礎建設上，所以我們見到數年前在密西西比河上，I-35W 大橋倒塌，造成 13 人死亡。但情況並非一直如此。我們開鑿了巴拿馬運河。我們已經大致上消滅全球的小兒麻痺症。我們興建了橫貫大陸鐵路、落實了馬歇爾計劃。不只是關乎大型實體基建的問題。女性投票權。但在我們的短期主義時代，每樣事情都似乎在刻下發生，我們只可以想到下一條推文或動態時報貼文，我們變得過度保守。 我們做了些甚麼﹖我們收容從戰亂國家逃亡來的人，然後跟蹤他們。我們收容低度吸毒者，然後終身囚禁他們。我們像製作快餐般建造大量樓房，卻沒有考慮人們怎樣在買房和工作之間取捨。都是為了賺快錢。 事實上，這些問題很多都有技術性的解決辦法，數之不盡。我稱之為技術性解決沙包策略。你知道風暴正在來臨，沒有人在崩堤後投放任何資金，你就在家的周圍擺放沙包。信不信由你，這是奏效的。風暴離開了，水位下降，你就移走沙包，每次風暴過後都是這樣做。陰險之處在於：沙包策略使你獲得連任。沙包策略有助你報告季度業績。 如果我們要往跟現在情況不同的未來發展，因為我不認為我們在 2016 年已經到達文明的巔峰。 （笑聲） 我們還有更多事情要做。但我的論點是：除非我們轉變思考短期內發生的事情時所採用的心智模式和心智地圖，問題是解決不了的。 所以我發展出一套我稱為「長途」的東西，它是一種實務。「長途」不會是做過一件事情一次後就不再做。我肯定在座任何人都曾經在辦公室以外場所開會，用上很多告示貼和白板，而各位都這樣做──無意得罪有這樣做的顧問師──各位制訂長期計劃，在兩周後所有人都把它忘記。對吧？或者一周後就忘記，在幸運的情況下三個月後才忘記。它稱為實務，因為它未必是你做的事情。它是一個檢討作出各項重大決定時不同的思考方法的過程。我希望逐一討論這三種思考方法。 第一種：跨世代思考。我喜歡哲學家：柏拉圖、蘇格拉底、哈伯馬斯、海德格。他們陪著我長大。他們都做過同一件事，而這件事在我尚未開始探討之前不像是非常重要。他們所有人在衡量整個現實世界裡何謂道德和美善時，都是以整個生命為單位，由出生到死亡。但關於這些問題的問題在於：這些問題被加諸我們身上，因為我們只能把在世上行善理解為在出生和死亡之間進行。我們都是被設定這樣做的。你走到任何書店的自救書籍部門時，所有都是關於你自己。這是好事，除非你要處理部分這些重大問題。從跨世代思考出發──其實就是跨世代道德──你就可以擴闊思考這些問題的方法，而這是你在協助解決問題上所擔當的角色。 這並非一些必須在安理會大會上進行的事。這是一些你可以個人方式進行的事。每隔一段時間，我有幸跟妻子出外晚膳，而我們有三名七歲以下的孩子，可想而知那頓飯吃得非常寧靜。 （笑聲） 我們坐下，我真的只想吃東西和輕鬆一下，而我的孩子對於我們做的事情有完全不同的看法。我的第一個想法就是沙包策略，對吧？那就是從口袋中拿出 iPhone，給他們《冰雪奇緣》或其他暢銷遊戲。然後我停止這個想法，我要採用這個跨世代思考方法。我不在餐館做這樣的事，因為這會很怪誕，但我卻要做──我做過一次，所以明白這很怪誕。 （笑聲） 你要認為自己一定做得到。但這教導他們什麼？我帶幾張紙或跟他們談話建立關係，這些行為代表什麼？這並非易事，而我以非常個人的方式去做。實際上這比任何我在世上處理過的大問題更加令人不安──在晚膳時逗自己的孩子開心。但這樣做是要使我跟他們在當下聯繫起來，此外──這是跨世代思考道德的關鍵所在──為他們準備如何跟他們的孩子的孩子的孩子互動。 第二：未來思考。當我們想到未來時，就是指未來 10 至 15 年。讓我知道各位對未來的想像。各位毋須告訴我，自己思考一下就好了。你大概會見到的是一塊主導文化透視鏡，主導我們現在怎樣思考未來：科技。當我們思考這些問題時，我們從來都戴著科技透視鏡，擁抱科技中心或科技烏托邦主義。這並非錯事，但如果要在這些重大問題上有進展，這就是我們必須深入思考的事情，因為並非所有問題都是這樣，對吧？遠古時代的人對未來是甚麼有他們的思考方式。對於未來可以變成怎樣，教會絕對有他們的看法，你其實可以付錢為進入未來那個世界鋪路，對吧？人類幸運之處在於他們有科技革命。此後我們有了科技，但其後發生的──順帶一提，這並不是批判。我喜愛科技。我的房子內所有東西都跟我回嘴，我的孩子以至我的揚聲器都是。 （笑聲） 但我們卻把未來主導權從羅馬的大祭司褫奪過來，交給矽谷的大祭司。所以當我們思考怎樣應對氣候、貧窮或流浪漢問題時，我們的第一反應就是透過科技去思考。我不是鼓吹大家去聽這位老兄的說話。我喜歡約爾．歐斯汀的電視佈道，別誤會，但我不是要各位聽他的說話。我要說的是，我們必須重新思考只用一種方法探討未來、只透過主導透視鏡探討未來的基本假設。因為我們的問題實在龐大和廣闊，我們需要開放自己。 所以我在權限內盡量不談「一個」未來。我談的是多個未來。這樣重啟對話。當你坐著思考怎樣在重大問題上前進──這問題可以是家庭，可以是工作，也可以再次是全球性問題──別打斷自己思考科技以外的解決辦法，因為我們目前關心科技進化多於道德進化。除非我們有解決科技進化的辦法，否則我們不能擺脫短期主義、達到理想的境界。 最後：終極 (Telos) 思考。這來自希臘語詞根。終極目標和終極用途。這其實都是問一個問題：目的何在？你上一次何時自問目的何在？當你這樣自問，你走得有多遠？因為長遠已不再夠長。三或五年也不夠長。30、40、50、100 年才夠。 在荷馬的史詩《奧德賽》，奧德修斯有了「目的何在」的答案。那就是伊薩卡。他懷著雄心壯志，就是想要回到妻子佩涅羅珀的身邊。我可以告訴各位，因為我的工作，也因為各位憑直覺也知道的事實，我們已失去了我們的伊薩卡。我們已失去了我們的「目的何在」，所以要留在這個倉鼠輪上。沒錯，我們正嘗試解決這些問題，但解決了問題後是甚麼境況？除非你界定日後的境況是甚麼，否則人們是不會行動的。商界──不只關乎營商──當中那些一直突破短期主義的企業，毫無意外地都是家族企業。它們都是跨世代，懷著終極目標，思考未來。這就是百達翡麗的廣告，手錶有 175 年的歷史，令人驚異的是，這些手錶確實象徵品牌帶出的長途式氣質，因為畢竟你從來都不是真正擁有百達翡麗，而我當然不會擁有， （笑聲） 除非有人想拋 25,000 元到台上。你只是替下一代看守它。 我們要記住的重要一點就是：我們把未來當成名詞看待。它不是名詞，而是動詞。它是需要行動。未來是要闖進去的，而不是忽然影響我們的事情。它其實已是我們完全控制的東西，但在短期社會，我們最終感覺不到。我們感覺像備受限制。我們可以衝破這些限制。 現在我愈來愈能夠處之泰然，那就是在無可避免的未來，某個時間點，我將會死亡。因為這種思考和行動的新方式，無論面對外面的世界，或者面對我的家人，想像我給孩子留下甚麼，我對這個事實愈來愈能處之泰然。很多人都對這個事實非常不安，但我要告訴你，徹底思考一下。應用這種思考方式，你就可以超越那些無可避免地令人非常不安的事。 一切始於你問自己這個問題：你的未來的長途是甚麼﹖但我要求各位，當你們問自己這個問題時，無論是現在、今晚、駕駛時、在辦公室或者戰情室，超越長途。噢，我未來三至五年的長途究竟是甚麼？盡可能嘗試超越自己的生命，因為這使你做出比你想像中能做的更大的事情。 沒錯，我們外面有很多龐大的問題。有了這個程序，有了這種思考方式，我認為大家可以成就改變。我認為你可以成就改變，我相信各位。 感謝大家。 （鼓掌聲）
