Talk	en	zh-tw
arianna_huffington_how_to_succeed_get_more_sleep	"My big idea is a very, very small idea that can unlock billions of big ideas that are at the moment dormant inside us. And my little idea that will do that is sleep. (Laughter) (Applause) This is a room of type A women. This is a room of sleep-deprived women. And I learned the hard way the value of sleep. Two-and-a-half years ago, I fainted from exhaustion. I hit my head on my desk. I broke my cheekbone, I got five stitches on my right eye. And I began the journey of rediscovering the value of sleep. And in the course of that, I studied, I met with medical doctors, scientists, and I'm here to tell you that the way to a more productive, more inspired, more joyful life is getting enough sleep. (Applause) And we women are going to lead the way in this new revolution, this new feminist issue. We are literally going to sleep our way to the top — literally — (Laughter) (Applause) because unfortunately, for men, sleep deprivation has become a virility symbol. I was recently having dinner with a guy who bragged that he had only gotten four hours sleep the night before. And I felt like saying to him — but I didn't say — I felt like saying, ""You know what? if you had gotten five, this dinner would have been a lot more interesting."" (Laughter) There is now a kind of sleep deprivation one-upmanship. Especially here in Washington, if you try to make a breakfast date, and you say, ""How about eight o'clock?"" they're likely to tell you, ""Eight o'clock is too late for me, but that's OK, I can get a game of tennis in and do a few conference calls and meet you at eight."" And they think that means they are so incredibly busy and productive, but the truth is, they're not, because we, at the moment, have had brilliant leaders in business, in finance, in politics, making terrible decisions. So a high IQ does not mean that you're a good leader, because the essence of leadership is being able to see the iceberg before it hits the Titanic. (Laughter) And we've had far too many icebergs hitting our Titanics. In fact, I have a feeling that if Lehman Brothers was Lehman Brothers and Sisters, they might still be around. (Laughter) (Applause) While all the brothers were busy just being hyper-connected 24/7, maybe a sister would have noticed the iceberg, because she would have woken up from a seven-and-a-half- or eight-hour sleep, and have been able to see the big picture. So as we are facing all the multiple crises in our world at the moment, what is good for us on a personal level, what's going to bring more joy, gratitude, effectiveness in our lives and be the best for our own careers, is also what is best for the world. So I urge you to shut your eyes, and discover the great ideas that lie inside us; to shut your engines and discover the power of sleep. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我的大點子其實是個小想法可以釋放出數不清的大點子而這想法還潛伏在身體裡我的這個小點子就是睡覺 (笑聲) (掌聲) 在座的都是A型性格的女人在座的都是睡眠不足的女人我自己學到教訓後才知道睡覺的寶貴兩年半前我因為太累而昏倒了頭撞到桌子，顴骨碎裂右眼縫了五針之後開始了重新發現睡眠寶貴的旅程為此，我做研究、找醫生、科學家我今天在此告訴各位要更有生產力、找更多靈感、生活更開心就是多睡點 (掌聲) 我們女人，將會帶領新一波的革命，女性主義話題我們的職場升遷，真的是""睡""出來的 (笑聲) (掌聲) 因為，不幸的對男人而言睡眠不足好像變成男性雄風的象徵我最近和一個男的吃飯他自傲的說他前天只睡四小時我本來想跟他說 — 但我沒說出口我想說：你知道嗎？你如果再多睡一小時這頓晚飯就不會這麼無聊了 (笑聲) 現在有種睡眠不足就是勝人一籌特別是在華盛頓這裡，如果你約人吃早餐然後提議 ""八點如何?""對方很可能跟你說 ""八點太晚了""""不過沒關係，我可以先打個網球""""回幾通電話，八點再相約吃早餐""他們覺得這樣好像代表自己超忙，完成超多事但事實並非如此我們現在有著許多優越的領導者不論是商界、財務界、政界做的決策都很糟高的 IQ不代表你是好的領導者因為領導者的特質是要先能看到冰山而不是等鐵達尼撞上才發現我們現在就是有太多撞上冰山的鐵達尼號了 事實上，我覺得如果雷曼兄弟(投資銀行)名叫雷曼""兄弟姐妹""的話他們可能不會倒(掌聲)因為當這些兄弟都在忙一天24小時超高速忙碌時也許其中一個姐妹會注意到冰山因為她可能睡了七、八個小時所以目光有辦法看遠一點 我們正面臨許多的危機世界各地都如此個人層面來說，對我們有好處的、能更快樂、更感激、更有效率、在自己領域中能做到最好的就是對全世界好的所以我奉勸各位閉上眼睛發現自己內在的很棒的想法把引擎關掉，發現睡覺的力量吧 謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
