Talk	en	zh-tw
ariel_garten_know_thyself_with_a_brain_scanner	"The maxim, ""Know thyself"" has been around since the ancient Greeks. Some attribute this golden world knowledge to Plato, others to Pythagoras. But the truth is it doesn't really matter which sage said it first, because it's still sage advice, even today. ""Know thyself."" It's pithy almost to the point of being meaningless, but it rings familiar and true, doesn't it? ""Know thyself."" I understand this timeless dictum as a statement about the problems, or more exactly, the confusions, of consciousness. I've always been fascinated with knowing the self. This fascination led me to submerge myself in art, study neuroscience, and later, to become a psychotherapist. Today I combine all my passions as the CEO of InteraXon, a thought-controlled computing company. My goal, quite simply, is to help people become more in tune with themselves. I take it from this little dictum, ""Know thyself."" If you think about it, this imperative is kind of the defining characteristic of our species, isn't it? I mean, it's self-awareness that separates Homo sapiens from earlier instances of our mankind. Today we're often too busy tending to our iPhones and iPods to really stop and get to know ourselves. Under the deluge of minute-to-minute text conversations, e-mails, relentless exchange of media channels and passwords and apps and reminders and Tweets and tags, we lose sight of what all this fuss is supposed to be about in the first place: Ourselves. Much of the time we're transfixed by all of the ways we can reflect ourselves out into the world. And we can barely find the time to reflect deeply back in on our own selves. We've cluttered ourselves up with all this. And we feel like we have to get far, far away to a secluded retreat, leaving it all behind. So we go far away to the top of a mountain, assuming that perching ourselves on a piece is bound to give us the respite we need to sort the clutter, the chaotic everyday, and find ourselves again. But on that mountain where we gain that beautiful peace of mind, what are we really achieving? It's really only a successful escape. Think of the term we use, ""Retreat."" This is the term that armies use when they've lost a battle. It means we've got to get out of here. Is this how we feel about the pressures of our world, that in order to get inside ourselves, you have to run for the hills? And the problem with escaping your day-to-day life is that you have to come home, eventually. So when you think about it, we're almost like a tourist visiting ourselves over there. And eventually, that vacation's got to come to an end. So my question to you is, can we find ways to know ourselves without the escape? Can we redefine our relationship with the technologized world in order to have the heightened sense of self-awareness that we seek? Can we live here and now in our wired web and still follow those ancient instructions, ""Know thyself?"" I say the answer is yes. And I'm here today to share a new way that we're working with technology to this end, to get familiar with our inner self like never before — humanizing technology and furthering that age-old quest of ours to more fully know the self. It's called thought-controlled computing. You may or may not have noticed that I'm wearing a tiny electrode on my forehead. This is actually a brainwave sensor that's reading the electrical activity of my brain as I give this talk. These brainwaves are being analyzed and we can see them as a graph. Let me show you what it looks like. That blue line there is my brainwave. It's the direct signal being recorded from my head, rendered in real time. The green and red bars show that same signal displayed by frequency, with lower frequencies here and higher frequencies up here. You're actually looking inside my head as I speak. These graphs are compelling, they're undulating, but from a human's perspective, they're actually not very useful. That's why we've spent a lot of time thinking about how to make this data meaningful to the people who use it. For instance, what if I could use this data to find out how relaxed I am at any moment? Or what if I can take that information and put it into an organic shape up on the screen? The shape on the right over here has become an indicator of what's going on in my head. The more relaxed I am, the more the energy's going to fall through it. I may also be interested in knowing how focused I am, so I can put my level of attention into the circuit board on the other side. And the more focused my brain is, the more the circuit board is going to surge with energy. Ordinarily, I would have no way of knowing how focused or relaxed I was in any tangible way. As we know, our feelings about how we're feeling are notoriously unreliable. We've all had stress creep up on us without even noticing it until we lost it on someone who didn't deserve it, and then we realize that we probably should have checked in with ourselves a little earlier. This new awareness opens up vast possibilities for applications that help improve our lives and ourselves. We're trying to create technology that uses the insights to make our work more efficient, our breaks more relaxing and our connections deeper and more fulfilling than ever. I'm going to share some of these visions with you in a bit, but first I want to take a look at how we got here. By the way, feel free to check in on my head at any time. (Laughter) My team at InteraXon and I have been developing thought-controlled application for almost a decade now. In the first phase of development, we were really enthused by all the things we could control with our mind. We were making things activate, light up and work just by thinking. We were transcending the space between the mind and the device. We brought to life a vast array of prototypes and products that you could control with your mind, like thought-controlled home appliances or slot-car games or video games or a levitating chair. We created technology and applications that engaged people's imaginations, and it was really exciting. And then we were asked to do something really big for the Olympics. We were invited to create a massive installation at the Vancouver 2010 winter Olympics, were used in Vancouver, got to control the lighting on the CN Tower, the Canadian Parliament buildings and Niagara Falls from all the way across the country using their minds. Over 17 days at the Olympics, 7,000 visitors from all over the world actually got to individually control the light from the CN Tower, parliament and Niagara in real time with their minds from across the country, 3,000 km away. So controlling stuff with your mind is pretty cool. But we're always interested in multitiered levels of human interaction. And so we began looking into inventing thought-controlled applications in a more complex frame than just control. And that was responsiveness. We realized that we had a system that allowed technology to know something about you. And it could join into the relationship with you. We created the responsive room where the lights, music and blinds adjusted to your state. They followed these little shifts in your mental activity. So as you settled into relaxation at the end of a hard day, on the couch in our office, the music would mellow with you. When you read, the desk lamp would get brighter. If you nod off, the system would know, dimming to darkness as you do. We then realized that if technology could know something about you and use it to help you, there's an even more valuable application than that. That you could know something about yourself. We could know sides of ourselves that were all but invisible and come to see things that were previously hidden. Let me show you an example of what I'm talking about here. Here's an application that I created for the iPad. So the goal of the original game Zen Bound is to wrap a rope around a wooden form. So you use it with your headset. The headset connects wirelessly to an iPad or a smartphone. In that headset, you have fabric sensors on your forehead and above the ear. In the original Zen Bound game, you play it by scrolling your fingers over the pad. In the game that we created, of course, you control the wooden form that's on the screen there with your mind. As you focus on the wooden form, it rotates. The more you focus, the faster the rotation. This is for real. This is not a fake. What's really interesting to me though is at the end of the game, you get stats and feedback about how you did. You have graphs and charts that tell you how your brain was doing — not just how much rope you used or what your high score is, but what was going on inside of your mind. And this is valuable feedback that we can use to understand what's going on inside of ourselves. I like to call this ""intra-active."" Normally, we think about technology as interactive. This technology is intra-active. It understands what's inside of you and builds a sort of responsive relationship between you and your technology so that you can use this information to move you forward. So you can use this information to understand you in a responsive loop. At InteraXon — intra-active technology is one of our really defining mandates. It's how we understand the world inside and reflect it outside into this tight loop. For example, thought-controlled computing can teach children with ADD how to improve their focus. With ADD, children have a low proportion of beta waves for focus states and a high proportion of theta states. So you can create applications that reward focused brain states. So you can imagine kids playing video games with their brain waves and improving their ADD symptoms as they do it. This can be as effective as Ritalin. Perhaps even more importantly, thought-controlled computing can give children with ADD insights into their own fluctuating mental states, so they can better understand themselves and their learning needs. The way these children will be able to use their new awareness to improve themselves will upend many of the damaging and widespread social stigmas that people who are diagnosed as different are challenged with. We can peer inside our heads and interact with what was once locked away from us, what once mystified and separated us. Brainwave technology can understand us, anticipate our emotions and find the best solutions for our needs. Imagine this collected awareness of the individual computed and reflected across an entire lifespan. Imagine the insights that you can gain from this kind of second sight. It would be like plugging into your own personal Google. On the subject of Google, today you can search and tag images based on the thoughts and feelings you had while you watched them. You can tag pictures of baby animals as happy, or whatever baby animals are to you, and then you can search that database, navigating with your feelings, rather than the keywords that just hint at them. Or you could tag Facebook photos with the emotions that you had associated with those memories and then instantly prioritize the streams that catch your attention, just like this. Humanizing technology is about taking what's already natural about the human-tech experience and building technology seamlessly in tandem with it. As it aligns with our human behaviors, it can allow us to make better sense of what we do and, more importantly, why. Creating a big picture out of all the important little details that make up who we are. With humanized technology we can monitor the quality of your sleep cycles. When our productivity starts to slacken, we can go back to that data and see how we can make more effective balance between work and play. Do you know what causes fatigue in you or what brings out your energetic self, what triggers cause you to be depressed or what fun things are going to bring you out of that funk? Imagine if you had access to data that allowed you to rank on a scale of overall happiness which people in your life made you the happiest, or what activities brought you joy. Would you make more time for those people? Would you prioritize? Would you get a divorce? (Laughter) What thought-controlled computing can allow you to do is build colorful layered pictures of our lives. And with this, we can get the skinny on our psychological happenings and build a story of our behaviors over time. We can begin to see the underlying narratives that propel us forward and tell us about what's going on. And from this, we can learn how to change the plot, the outcome and the character of our personal stories. Two millennia ago, those Greeks had some powerful insights. They knew that a fundamental piece falls into place when you start to live out their little phrase, when you come into contact with yourself. They understood the power of human narrative and the value that we place on humans as changing, evolving and growing. But they understood something more fundamental — the sheer joy in discovery, the delight and fascination that we get from the world and being ourselves in it; the richness that we get from seeing, feeling and knowing the lives that we are. My mom's an artist, and as a child, I'd often see her bring things to life with the stroke of a brush. One moment, it was all white space, pure possibility. The next, it was alive with her colorful ideas and expressions. As I sat easel-side, watching her transform canvas after canvas, I learned that you could create your own world. I learned that our own inner worlds — our ideas, emotions and imaginations — were, in fact, not bound by our brains and bodies. If you could think it, if you could discover it, you could bring it to life. To me, thought-controlled computing is as simple and powerful as a paintbrush — one more tool to unlock and enliven the hidden worlds within us. I look forward to the day that I can sit beside you, easel-side, watching the world that we can create with our new toolboxes and the discoveries that we can make about ourselves. Thank you. (Applause)"	「認識自己」這句箴言自古希臘時代就存在有人認為這句箴言出自於柏拉圖其他人覺得它出自畢達哥拉斯但事實上，哪一位先知最早說這句話根本不重要因為這句話到現在都還是個睿智的建言「認識自己」真是精簡精簡到近乎沒有意義但它又是那麼讓人熟悉又真實，不是嗎？「認識自己」我對這句永恆格言的解讀是它闡述著我們對意識的疑惑或者更精確地說，困惑我一直以來都被「認識自己」所強烈吸引這樣的迷戀引導我去沉浸在藝術中去研究神經科學而且後來成為一位精神治療醫師 今時今日，我集結所有的熱情去做好InteraXon的執行長（InteraXon是）一家發展由思想所操控的電腦的公司我的目標，簡單來講就是幫助他人變得跟自己本身更協調我的靈感就是來自於這句格言「認識自己」你想想看這個祈使句正是我們人類物種的關鍵特質不是嗎？我的意思是，它代表著「自我意識」它將現代人種跟過去的人類型態區隔開來 當代的我們經常太忙於查看我們的iPhone以及iPod無法停下來好好了解自己在如潮水般湧來的文字訊息電子郵件、媒體頻道不停地播送以及密碼、小程式以及提醒訊息以及推特訊息以及標籤我們忽略了這些忙碌與混亂的根源我們自己大部分的時間裡，我們都被那些向全世界展現自我的管道給釘住了而我們幾乎找不到任何時間來向內心深處反省自我我們給自己招來這些雜亂而且我們感覺我們必須退隱到無人之處，才能擺脫這一切 然後當我們去一個遙遠的地方時到一個山頂我們以為只要佇立在一個孤獨之處就能夠提供我們需要的歇息來整理雜亂，每天的混亂並且重新找回自我但是，在那讓我們找回心靈平靜的山上我們真的得到了什麼？我們只是成功地逃避了現實想想我們用的字眼「退隱」這個字眼是當軍隊打敗仗時使用它的意思是「我們必須離開這裡」這就是我們對這個世界上壓力的感覺嗎？所以為了要探索自我你就必須逃離現實嗎？況且，從你每日生活中逃離的問題是你最終還是必須要回來因此，你想想看我們就像是觀光客去那邊參觀自己然爾最後旅遊以回家告終 所以，我給你們的問題是：我們能不能不靠「逃避」也能找到「認識自我」的方法？我們能不能重新定義我們跟這個科技化世界之間的關係來獲得我們所探索的更高的自我意識？我們能不能住在這個互連的網絡裡但同時也遵循那些古老的教誨「認識自己」？我認為答案是「可以」我今天在這裡要分享一個新方法我們正嘗試以科技來實現建構這個方法讓我們對自己的內心深處比以前都更加了解將科技「人性化」然後去繼續人類千古的探索來更了解自己這項技術稱之為「由思想操控的電腦運算」 你可能已經注意到了我額頭上有一個微小的電極這其實是一個腦波感應器當我在這裡演講時它就在讀取我大腦的電波活動這些腦波就正在被分析，而我們可以透過一個圖表來看讓我秀一下它長什麼樣那條藍線，就是我的腦波那是我從我頭上直接記錄下來的訊號同步處理綠色和紅色的線呈現那個相同訊號的頻率這邊是低頻率那邊是高頻率在我說話的同時，你也在觀察我的大腦內部這些圖表很驚人的，是起伏變化的但從一個人類的觀點來看它其實沒有太大用處這也是為什麼我們花很多時間去思考如何讓這些資料對使用者變得有意義 譬如，假如我能夠用這些資料去了解在任何時刻我的心情有多放鬆？或者，假如我們可以用那些資訊然後把它們用有機形狀在螢幕上呈現？右邊這裡的形狀成為我大腦狀態的指標我越放輕鬆越多的能量會掉落我也可能想知道我專注的程度那麼我就可以將專注的程度呈現在電路板的另一側我的大腦越專注電路板會越有能量 一般來說，我無法以任何具體的方式知道我有多放輕鬆正如我們所知，我們對於「自己感覺」的感覺是出了名得不可靠我們在不知不覺中就壓力大了起來直到我們把壓力宣洩在無辜的人身上然後我們才意識到，我們應該要及早自我察覺這種新的自我意識為改善我們生活的科技應用提供眾多新的機遇我們正試著研發一種技術，可以捕捉這些頻率來讓我們工作更有效率，讓休息更加怡人而且我們之間的連結會比以前更深刻、更有意義我要跟你們分享這些願景的一部分但首先，我要回顧我們如何走到今天順帶一提，你可以隨時都看一下我大腦的活動 （笑聲） 我以及InteraXon團隊已經花了大約十年在發展「透過思想操控」的應用方式在發展的最初階段裡我們對於可以透過大腦操控的所有事物感到興奮就只透過思考，我們就可以讓東西開啟點亮，並且運作我們跨越大腦與裝置之間的空間我們成功做出各式各樣可以用大腦操控的原型樣本以及成品像是透過思考操控的家電用品或者軌道賽車遊戲，或者電玩遊戲或者讓椅子騰空飛起來我們創造出能發揮人類想像力的科技與應用產品那真的很令人興奮 之後，我們受託製作一個非常大的東西給奧運會我們受託來製作一個巨型裝置在2010年的溫哥華冬季奧運位於溫哥華只靠思考就能夠從國家的另一頭點亮西恩塔（C.N. Tower）加拿大國會大樓以及尼加拉瓜大瀑布在奧運的17天裡，7000位來自世界各地的訪客每一位都實際用他們的大腦，從國家的另一頭從3000公里遠的地方同步控制西恩塔、國會大樓以及尼加拉瓜大瀑布的燈光用大腦來操作東西是蠻酷的 但我們總是對多層次的人類互動更感興趣因此，我們開始研究如何在一個比「控制」更複雜的框架中去發明運用思想操作的應用產品而那就是「回應能力」我們發現我們有一個讓科技了解你的系統它還可以跟你建立關係我們創造了一間「互動房間」裡面的燈光、音樂以及窗簾都依照你的狀態做調整它們會依循著你心智狀態的小幅變化所以，當你在辛苦了一整天之後坐在沙發上或辨公室裡，放輕鬆音樂會跟著變得柔和微醺當你閱讀時，桌燈會變亮你打瞌睡時，系統會知道同時把燈光調暗 我們發現，假如科技知道關於你的事情然後用之於幫助你那會有更具有價值的應用層面你會更了解你自己我們就能夠知道那些幾乎隱藏著的不同面向並且看到之前被隱藏著的事物讓我用一個例子來解釋我的話 這是一個我為iPad創造的一個應用程式Zen Bound最初遊戲的目標是把一條繩子纏繞在一塊木頭上那麼你就用一個頭戴式感應器頭套會以無線方式跟iPad或智能手機連線你戴上那個頭套後在你的額頭和耳朵上方都有組織感應器在原來的Zen Bound遊戲中你玩的方式是用手指滑過iPad在我們創造的遊戲裡，當然你用大腦控制螢幕上的這塊木頭當你專注在那塊木頭時它會旋轉你越專注，旋轉越快這是真的無半點虛假但是對我而言，最有趣的是在遊戲結束時，你會看到你表現如何的統計數據和回饋意見你會看到圖型和表格說明你的大腦表現如何不是你用了多長的繩子或分數多高而且你大腦裡面經歷了什麼變化這是很有價值的反饋訊息可以用於了解我們內心的運作方式 我喜歡稱之為「向內互動」通常我們想到科技就想到「向外互動」這項科技是「向內互動」它了解你的大腦內部並且在你和你的科技之間建構一套回應關係讓你能夠用這些資訊去幫你進步讓你可以用這些資訊在一個回應的循環機制裡，了解你自己在InteraXon「向內互動」科技是我們最具特色的項目它幫助我們了解內在世界並且在外在世界表現出來通過緊密的迴圈 舉例而言，由思想操控的電腦運算可以教導過動兒如何強化他們的專注力因為「注意力缺陷障礙」，這些小孩專注狀態的貝他波的比例比較小而且有比較高比例的夕它狀態因此，你可以創造獎勵專注的大腦狀態的應用程式你就能想像小孩用他們的腦波來玩電玩遊戲同時間改善他們的「注意力缺乏障礙」這可以跟「利他能」（一種治療過動兒的藥物）一樣有效但更重要的是由思想操控的電腦運算技術可以提供過動兒洞察他們自己變動不斷的心智狀態讓他們更了解自己以及他們在學習上的需要這些讓孩童靠自覺來改善自己的方法將會終結許多普遍、具傷害性的社會歧視終結那些人被診斷為異於常人的患者所受到的挑戰 我們可以窥视大腦內部解开過去未知的领域那些神祕与我们分离的事物腦波技術能获知我們及我們的情緒並且為我們的需求找到最好的解決之道想像將一個人所有的知覺蒐集起來透過電腦處理，呈现一个人的人生想像你能夠從這種「第二視覺」獲得的洞悉那會像是探索你個人的Google 談到Google今天你可以做搜尋，並且依照你看照片時的想法及心情去標記照片你可以將小動物的照片標記為「開心」或者任何小動物對你的意義然後你就可以搜尋那個資料庫透過你的心情去瀏覽而非暗示他們的關鍵字或者你可以用跟那些回憶相關的情緒去標註臉書上的照片然後即刻將引起你注意的照片集做排序就像這樣子人性化的科技就是利用人類與科技互動經驗中最自然的部份然後創造出可以與之無縫地運作的科技當那種科技跟人類行為做結合時它可以讓我們更加理解我們的行為和其中的緣由，這是最重要的將小細節集聚起來構建出一個反映我們自身的大架構 靠著人性化的科技我們可以監控你睡眠循環的品質當我們的生產力開始下滑時我們可以回顧那些資料看看我們如何在工作與玩樂之間找到一個更有效率的平衡點你知道什麼東西造成你疲憊嗎？或者什麼東西讓你精神百倍？什麼東西讓你憂鬱消沈或者什麼有趣事情能夠把你從消沉中解救出來？想像假如你能夠獲得這些資料讓你在整體幸福量表上排出在你生命中，誰讓你最快樂什麼活動讓你心生喜悅你會騰出更多時間給那些人嗎？你會怎麼排列主次？你會離婚嗎？ 由思想操控的電腦運算技術能夠讓你建構你生命的多彩、多層次圖案有了這個，我們就可以洞悉我們心智活動的內幕並且逐步建構一個我們行為的故事我們能夠開始看到那些驅使我們前進的潛在動力並且知道發生什麼事這樣一來我們可以學習如何改變我們人生故事的劇情、結果以及角色 兩千年前那些希臘人提出很銳利的洞見他們知道當你開始遵循他們的格言當你慢慢了解你自己後你就完成了人生重要的一環他們知道人類敘述的力量以及我們對於人類不斷變化、進化以及成長的重要性但他們也知道更基本的事情有新發現時的愉悅從這個世界以及做自己獲得的開心及陶醉我們由看到、感覺到、知道我們的生命所獲得的豐足 我的母親是一位藝術家在我童年裡，我經常看到她用畫筆為東西注入生命前一刻還是一整片白色，充滿可能性在她多彩多姿的想法及呈現之下一切就鮮活起來了當我坐在畫架旁邊看著她塗抹一張又一張的油畫布我懂得你可以創造你自己的世界我學到我們的內在世界我們的想法、情緒及想像其實並非局限於我們的大腦及身體如果你可以思考，如果你可以發現它你就能夠創造它 對我而言，由思想操控的電腦運算技術就跟一支畫筆一樣簡單又有力是另一個可以開啟並活化我們內在世界的工具我期待有一天我能夠坐在你身邊，在畫架旁邊看著我們用我們的新工具箱所創造出來的世界以及那些關於我們自己的新發現 謝謝 （掌聲）
