Talk	en	zh-tw
aris_venetikidis_making_sense_of_maps	"What I do is I organize information. I'm a graphic designer. Professionally, I try to make sense often of things that don't make much sense themselves. So my father might not understand what it is that I do for a living. His part of my ancestry has been farmers. He's part of this ethnic minority called the Pontic Greeks. They lived in Asia Minor and fled to Greece after a genocide about a hundred years ago. And ever since that, migration has somewhat been a theme in my family. My father moved to Germany, studied there and married, and as a result, I now have this half-German brain, with all the analytical thinking and that slightly dorky demeanor that come with that. And of course it meant that I was a foreigner in both countries, and that of course made it pretty easy for me to migrate as well, in good family tradition, if you like. But of course, most journeys that we undertake from day to day are within a city. And, especially if you know the city, getting from A to B may seem pretty obvious, right? But the question is, why is it obvious? How do we know where we're going? So I washed up on a Dublin ferry port about 12 years ago, a professional foreigner, if you like, and I'm sure you've all had this experience before, yeah? You arrive in a new city, and your brain is trying to make sense of this new place. Once you find your base, your home, you start to build this cognitive map of your environment. It's essentially this virtual map that only exists in your brain. All animal species do it, even though we all use slightly different tools. Us humans, of course, we don't move around marking our territory by scent, like dogs. We don't run around emitting ultrasonic squeaks, like bats. We just don't do that, although a night in the Temple Bar district can get pretty wild. (Laughter) No, we do two important things to make a place our own. First, we move along linear routes. Typically, we find a main street, and this main street becomes a linear strip map in our minds. But our mind keeps it pretty simple, yeah? Every street is generally perceived as a straight line, and we kind of ignore the little twists and turns that the streets make. When we do, however, make a turn into a side street, our mind tends to adjust that turn to a 90-degree angle. This of course makes for some funny moments when you're in some old city layout that follows some sort of circular city logic, yeah? Maybe you've had that experience as well. Let's say you're on some spot on a side street that projects from a main cathedral square, and you want to get to another point on a side street just like that. The cognitive map in your mind may tell you, ""Aris, go back to the main cathedral square, take a 90-degree turn and walk down that other side street."" But somehow you feel adventurous that day, and you suddenly discover that the two spots were actually only a single building apart. Now, I don't know about you, but I always feel like I find this wormhole or this inter-dimensional portal. (Laughter) So we move along linear routes and our mind straightens streets and perceives turns as 90-degree angles. The second thing that we do to make a place our own is we attach meaning and emotions to the things that we see along those lines. If you go to the Irish countryside and you ask an old lady for directions, brace yourself for some elaborate Irish storytelling about all the landmarks, yeah? She'll tell you the pub where her sister used to work, and ""... go past that church where I got married,"" that kind of thing. So we fill our cognitive maps with these markers of meaning. What's more, we abstract repeat patterns and recognize them. We recognize them by the experiences and we abstract them into symbols. And of course, we're all capable of understanding these symbols. (Laughter) What's more, we're all capable of understanding the cognitive maps, and you are all capable of creating these cognitive maps yourselves. So next time, when you want to tell your friend how to get to your place, you grab a beermat, grab a napkin, and you just observe yourself create this awesome piece of communication design. It's got straight lines. It's got 90-degree corners. You might add little symbols along the way. And when you look at what you've just drawn, you realize it does not resemble a street map. If you were to put an actual street map on top of what you've just drawn, you'd realize your streets and the distances — they'd be way off. No, what you've just drawn is more like a diagram or a schematic. It's a visual construct of lines, dots, letters, designed in the language of our brains. So it's no big surprise that the big information-design icon of the last century — the pinnacle of showing everybody how to get from A to B, the London Underground map — was not designed by a cartographer or a city planner; it was designed by an engineering draftsman. In the 1930s, Harry Beck applied the principles of schematic diagram design and changed the way public transport maps are designed forever. Now the very key to the success of this map is in the omission of less important information and in the extreme simplification. So, straightened streets, corners of 90 and 45 degrees, but also the extreme geographic distortion in that map. If you were to look at the actual locations of these stations, you'd see they're very different. But this is all for the clarity of the public Tube map. If you, say, wanted to get from Regent's Park station to Great Portland Street, the Tube map would tell you: take the Tube, go to Baker Street, change over, take another Tube. Of course, what you don't know is that the two stations are only about a hundred meters apart. Now we've reached the subject of public transport, and public transport here in Dublin is a somewhat touchy subject. (Laughter) For everybody who does not know the public transport here in Dublin, essentially, we have this system of local buses that grew with the city. For every outskirt that was added, there was another bus route added, running from the outskirt all the way to the city center. And as these local buses approach the city center, they all run side by side and converge in pretty much one main street. So when I stepped off the boat 12 years ago, I tried to make sense of that. Because exploring a city on foot only gets you so far. But when you explore a foreign and new public transport system, you will build a cognitive map in your mind in pretty much the same way. Typically, you choose yourself a rapid transport route, and in your mind, this route is perceived as a straight line. And like a pearl necklace, all the stations and stops are nicely and neatly aligned along the line. And only then you start to discover some local bus routes that would fill in the gaps, and that allow for those wormhole, inter-dimensional portal shortcuts. So I tried to make sense, and when I arrived, I was looking for some information leaflets that would help me crack this system and understand it, and I found those brochures. (Laughter) They were not geographically distorted. They had a lot of omission of information, but unfortunately, the wrong information. Say, in the city center — there were never actually any lines that showed the routes. (Laughter) There are actually not even any stations with names. (Laughter) Now, the maps of Dublin transport have gotten better, and after I finished the project, they got a good bit better, but still no station names, still no routes. So, being naive, and being half-German, I decided, ""Aris, why don't you build your own map?"" So that's what I did. I researched how each and every bus route moved through the city, nice and logical, every bus route a separate line. I plotted it into my own map of Dublin, and in the city center ... I got a nice spaghetti plate. (Laughter) Now, this is a bit of a mess, so I decided, of course, ""You're going to apply the rules of schematic design,"" cleaning up the corridors, widening the streets where there were loads of buses and making the streets at straight, 90-degree corners, 45-degree corners or fractions of that, and filled it in with the bus routes. And I built this city center bus map of the system, how it was five years ago. I'll zoom in again so that you get the full impact of the quays and Westmoreland Street. (Laughter) Now I can proudly say — (Applause) I can proudly say, as a public transport map, this diagram is an utter failure. (Laughter) Except, probably, in one aspect: I now had a great visual representation of just how clogged up and overrun the city center really was. Now, call me old-fashioned, but I think a public transport route map should have lines, because that's what they are, yeah? They're little pieces of string that wrap their way through the city center or through the city. If you will, the Greek guy inside of me feels if I don't get a line, it's like entering the labyrinth of the Minotaur without having Ariadne giving you the string to find your way. So the outcome of my academic research, loads of questionnaires, case studies and looking at a lot of maps, was that a lot of the problems and shortcomings of the public transport system here in Dublin was the lack of a coherent public transport map — a simplified, coherent public transport map — because I think this is the crucial step to understanding a public transport network on a physical level, but it's also the crucial step to make a public transport network mappable on a visual level. So I teamed up with a gentleman called James Leahy, a civil engineer and a recent master's graduate of the Sustainable Development program at DIT, and together we drafted the simplified model network, which I could then go ahead and visualize. So here's what we did. We distributed these rapid-transport corridors throughout the city center, and extended them into the outskirts. Rapid, because we wanted them to be served by rapid-transport vehicles. They would get exclusive road use, where possible, and it would be high-quantity, high-quality transport. James wanted to use bus rapid transport for that, rather than light rail. For me, it was important that the vehicles that would run on those rapid transport corridors would be visibly distinguishable from local buses on the street. Now we could take out all the local buses that ran alongside those rapid transport means. Any gaps that appeared in the outskirts were filled again. So, in other words, if there was a street in an outskirt where there had been a bus, we put a bus back in, only now these buses wouldn't run all the way to the city center, but connect to the nearest rapid-transport mode, one of these thick lines over there. So the rest was merely a couple of months of work, and a couple of fights with my girlfriend, of our place constantly being clogged up with maps, and the outcome, one of the outcomes, was this map of the Greater Dublin area. I'll zoom in a little bit. This map only shows the rapid transport connections, no local bus, very much in the ""metro map"" style that was so successful in London, and that since has been exported to so many other major cities, and therefore is the language that we should use for public transport maps. What's also important is, with a simplified network like this, it now would become possible for me to tackle the ultimate challenge and make a public transport map for the city center, one where I wouldn't just show rapid transport connections, but also all the local bus routes, streets and the likes, and this is what a map like this could look like. I'll zoom in a little bit. In this map, I'm including each transport mode, so rapid transport, bus, DART, tram and the likes. Each individual route is represented by a separate line. The map shows each and every station, each and every station name, and I'm also displaying side streets. In fact, most of the side streets even with their name, and for good measure, also a couple of landmarks, some of them signified by little symbols, others by these isometric three-dimensional bird's-eye-view drawings. The map is relatively small in overall size, so something that you could still hold as a fold-out map or display in a reasonably-sized display box on a bus shelter. I think it tries to be the best balance between actual representation and simplification — the language of way-finding in our brain. So, straightened lines, cleaned-up corners, and of course, that very, very important geographic distortion that makes public transport maps possible. If you, for example, have a look at the two main corridors that run through the city — the yellow and orange one over here — this is how they look in an actual, accurate street map, and this is how they would look in my distorted, simplified public transport map. So for a successful public transport map, we should not stick to accurate representation, but design them in the way our brains work. The reactions I got were tremendous, it was really good to see. And of course, for my own self, I was very happy to see that my folks in Germany and Greece finally have an idea what I do for a living. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我的工作, 是組織資訊。我是一個平面設計師。從專業面來說, 我努力讓一些不太有條理的事情, 能夠比較容易被理解. 也許我的父親並不能了解我所賴以為生的工作他和我的祖先一直都是農民屬於一個少數民族-旁提克希臘人(在土耳其北部)世居在小亞細亞, 後來遷徙到希臘在約100年前經歷了一場種族屠殺(1915~1922)從那之後, 遷徙似乎就變成了我的家庭的一個主題。我的父親搬到了德國、 在那裏就學, 在那裡結婚因為這樣, 我的腦袋, 有一半是德國式的具備了分析性的思維也附帶染上了一些老學究的古怪氣質這當然也意味著, 我對這兩個國家, 都算是外國人所以對我而言, 遷徙一點都不難你也可以說, 這是我的家族的優良傳統. 當然啦, 我們所經歷的遷徙旅程, 絕大部分是我們每天在居住的城市裡發生的, 特別來談談如果你對這個城市算熟，從 A地點 到 B地點應該是很簡單明瞭的，對嗎？但問題是，為什麼會很簡單明瞭呢？我們怎麼知道我們要怎麼走？ 在大約12年前, 我踏上了都柏林的渡輪碼頭身為一個專業的外來客, 若你想這樣叫我也行我相信你們也都有過這樣的經驗，是吧？你到達一個新的城市，然後你的大腦在嘗試弄清這個新的地方。一旦你找到你的基地，你的家，你會開始建立對於你的週遭環境的認知地圖基本上這樣的虛擬地圖, 只存在於你的腦袋裡面。所有的動物物種都是這樣的.不過我們與動物所使用的工具會有些不同。我們人類，當然，我們不要到處移動像狗那樣用味道標誌我們的領域。我們也不會到處跑並且發射超聲波，像蝙蝠那樣。我們根本不會那樣做雖然在聖殿區的酒吧的夜晚可能也相當的狂野啊...（笑聲）(聖殿區: 都柏林的一區, 夜晚的酒吧是觀光客常去的) 我們會做兩個重要的事情，來搞清楚一個地方.第一，我們沿直線路線移動。通常我們會先找到主要街道, 把這條主街當成我們腦袋裡頭的線條狀的地圖而且我們的腦袋用很簡單的方式來記每一條街道通常都被當作是一條直線，我們通常都會忽略街道常會有的小曲折。但是, 當我們打算彎到一條次要街道的時候我們的腦袋傾向於把這個彎當成是90度角這個當然就會產生不少有趣的情況了比方說, 你若是在一個老城市, 街道的布局是依照圓城的邏輯，會很有趣吧?也許你也曾有過這樣的經驗吧?比如說, 你正位於邊街上的某個點邊街是從主要教堂廣場幅射出來的，而你打算到另一條邊街上的某個點去。你腦袋裡的認知圖可能會這樣告訴你: ""阿里斯,回到主要教堂廣場去, 然後轉個 90 度的彎, 向另一條邊街走下去。""但是不知何故, 你那一天覺得想冒險你突然發現這兩個景點其實只是隔了一棟房子我不知道你會怎麼想, 但我遇到這樣的狀況時總覺得像是發現了跨越空間的門戶或是蟲洞。 我們總是沿著直線路徑前進而我們的腦袋會把街道當成直的, 並且把轉彎都當作 90 度角。 第二件事我們會做的事情，來搞清楚一個地方.是我們會把 意義與情感附加到事物上當我們看待這些路線的時候如果你去到愛爾蘭農村，你問一位老太太怎麼走，要準備好會聽到一些詳細的愛爾蘭故事, 關於每一個地標。是吧!她會告訴你，她的妹妹曾經工作過的酒吧然後經過那個我結婚的教堂，諸如此類的故事。所以我們會用這些有意義的標記來填補我們的認知地圖。除此之外，我們還會抽象化，重複各種模式，並且理解他們。我們用自己的經驗來建立認知地圖我們把認知地圖抽象化成符號當然了, 我們都能夠瞭解這些符號。（笑聲）更重要的是，我們都能夠理解這樣的認知地圖，而你也有能力自行建立這樣的認知地圖。所以下一次，當您想要告訴你的朋友怎麼去你的地方，你會拿一個啤酒杯墊紙, 或一張餐巾紙然後你就會看到你自己畫出這種令人敬畏的溝通的圖樣設計。它有一些直線。它有一些 90 度轉角。您可能會沿路增加一些小符號。當你看著你剛才畫出來的，你會意識到它不像市區街道地圖。要是你試著把實際的街道地圖疊蓋在你剛剛畫的地圖上，你會意識到你畫的街道跟距離，跟實際的會差很多其實, 你所畫出的地圖是更像一個關係圖或示意圖。它是一種視覺的組成, 有 線條、 圓點、 字母採用我們大腦的語言來繪製的。 所以, 這一點都不會意外, 當你看到上個世紀最大的資訊設計典範，讓大家知道如何從 A地 到 B地的資訊顯示的巔峰設計，就是 倫敦地鐵的地圖，並不是由製圖員或城市規劃師所畫的。它是由一個工程繪圖員設計的。在 1930 年代，哈利 · 貝克採用了示意圖的設計原則, 永遠地改變了公共交通工具的地圖設計的方式。這張地圖的成功關鍵要素就是省去了不太重要的資訊並且將資訊極度地簡化.所以拉直的街道，90 和 45 度角的轉角也因此會在該地圖上有極端的地理失真。如果你有機會看看這些車站的實際位置您會看到它們非常的不同。是吧？但這全是為了讓公共交通地鐵圖的簡明易懂性.是吧？如果你，比方說，想從攝政公園站到 大波特蘭街 去, 這個地圖就會告訴你，坐地鐵，轉到貝克街，轉車，搭另一線的地鐵。當然，你不知道的是，其實這兩個站相距僅約一百米。 現在我們進到了公共交通的主題而都柏林的公共交通是有點棘手的話題。（笑聲）簡單說明一下, 以免有些人不知道都柏林這裡的公共交通基本上我們有一套本地巴士系統隨著城市擴展。每個新發展出來的周邊區域就會新增一條巴士路線從周邊區域一直走到市中心，當這些周邊地方的巴士開進市中心的時候他們並排開進來, 然後大部分都匯流到一條主要街道上。 所以，當我12 年前走下了船的時候 ，我就嘗試著要了解這套系統，因為只用步行探索城市走不了多遠當你開始探索一個國外的陌生的公共交通系統的時候在你腦袋裡建構的認知地圖的方式大致上也會是完全相同的.通常，您幫自己選擇一條快速運輸路線(捷運)，然噢在你腦袋裡這條路線被當做是一條直線，就像一條珍珠項鍊那樣、 所有的車站和停靠點都整齊地排在這條線上然後你開始發現一些地方的巴士路線可以填補捷運路線間的空白，並讓你能夠用上這些蟲洞，跨空間門戶的捷徑所以當我來到這裡的時候, 我試著搞懂我想找一些資訊折頁能夠幫我破解此個系統並且理解它，而我找到的是這些摺頁。（笑聲）這些並沒有在地理空間上做了扭曲這些有很多的資訊被簡略掉了，很不幸的是, 簡略掉不該被簡略的了，比如說, 市中心的部份.這些折頁根本就沒有顯示這些路線這些折頁也根本沒有任何的車站和站名現在的都柏林公共運輸地圖已經變得更好了，當我完成了這個專案之後，這些地圖還會變得更好些但仍沒有車站名稱，仍沒有路線。 所以，身為一個天真的, 一半德國血統的人，我決定，""阿里斯，你為什麼不做一張你自己的地圖？""這就是我做的事。我研究了每一條巴士路線如何移動穿過城市完善而合乎邏輯的, 每條巴士路線都是一條獨立的線條我把路線畫到我自己的都柏林地圖上結果在市中心，我畫得像是一盤義大利麵條。（笑聲）這看起來有點亂, 所以當然了, 我決定要用上示意圖的畫圖規則清空走廊，拉大那些有巴士經過的街道，並且把每條街道畫成直的、 90 度角、 45 度角或再平分下去的角度把每條巴士路線填上去。我畫出了這張城市中心的巴士系統地圖，這是它五年前的樣子。我會再放大進去, 讓你能感受到完全的震撼關於這些碼頭和 威斯特摩蘭 街。（笑聲）現在我可以自豪地說 — — （掌聲） — —我可以自豪地說，作為公共交通工具的地圖，這張圖是一個徹底的失敗 — — （笑聲） — —除了, 也許還有點用處的是：我畫出了一個很棒的視覺化呈現展現出這個市中心是多麼的雍塞而且過度負載了 你可以說我是老式的, 可以, 但我認為一個公共交通路線地圖應該用線條因為交通路線就是線條啊, 對吧?這些路線就像一條條的線纏繞著通過市中心，或通過這座城市。也許你會覺得, 像我自己的希臘血統就會覺得, 不用線條的話就像是走進了牛頭怪(希臘神話)的迷宮卻沒有 阿麗亞德妮 給你那條引路的線(神話中 特休斯靠此線走出迷宮)所以我的學術研究包括了 大量的調查問卷，案例研究還看了很多地圖，的研究結果是, 很多的問題還有缺點, 在關於 都柏林的公共交通系統的部份是因為缺乏一個 一致性的公共運輸地圖-一種 簡化的、 一致的公共交通工具地圖-因為我認為這是一個關鍵的步驟, 來了解一個 公共交通網絡 的實體層面而這也是一個關鍵的步驟, 來畫出一個 視覺上能理解的 公共交通網絡地圖。 所以我與一位叫 詹姆斯 · 萊希 的人合作他是一個 土木工程師, 最近拿到碩士學位剛從 DIT 的永續發展學程畢業我們一起草擬了這個簡化的模型網路然後，我可以進行視覺化的呈現 這就是我們做出來的我們把這些捷運走廊分散到整個城市中心，再把它們延伸到周邊郊區捷運，因為我們想讓大家能夠搭乘捷運交通工具，對吧？這些捷運應該會有專屬的用路權，如果可能的話，這也會是將高運量的、 高品質的運輸。詹姆斯 想要為 快捷巴士運輸 來達到這樣的目的而不是用輕軌捷運。而對我來說，重要的是這些運行在快速運輸走廊的交通工具可以直接用看的就區分出來, 跟地區性的巴士是不同的現在，我們可以拿掉所有地區性的巴士路線跟這些快速交通路線並行的都可以拿掉而在郊區的空缺區域仍然可以用 區域性巴士來填補所以, 換句話說, 如果原本在這個郊區的街上有巴士路線，我們就把巴士放回去，不同的是, 現在這些區域性巴士不會一路開到市中心去了只會開到最近的一個捷運站點銜接轉運串連到這些地方的這些粗線所以, 剩下的只是幾個月的工作還有幾場我跟女朋友的小吵架, 因為我們的地方一直都塞滿了好多的地圖產出的結果, 其中之一, 是這張地圖涵蓋了大都柏林區。我會放大一點。這張地圖只顯示了捷運的銜接點沒有區域性巴士，很像常見的捷運地圖就像在倫敦的很成功的地鐵圖，而且也已經被輸出運用在其他許多大城市所以也是我們應該採用的方式, 當我們在畫公共交通的地圖的時候。同樣也很重要的, 當有這樣的簡化的網絡的時候我就變得有辦法可以對付這個終極挑戰，來畫出市中心的公共運輸地圖了不僅是畫出快捷運輸的連線也會有所有的區域性巴士路線、 街道和諸如此類的而這就是像這樣的地圖會長什麼樣子。我會放大一點。我在這張地圖，包括了各種運輸模式，包括快捷運輸、 巴士、 都柏林快車、 有軌電車和諸如此類的。(DART: Dublin Area Rapid Transit:)每一條路線用一條獨立的線條來表示地圖顯示了所有的每一個車站每個車站的名稱而且我也標上了 一些 邊街事實上，大部分的小街甚至與街的名字，為了方便，還標示了幾個重要地標，其中的一些用代表符號來凸顯另外一些用這種等視圖式的立體的鳥瞰圖來呈現地圖的整體尺寸相對來說較小，大小可以讓你拿在手上, 像是折頁地圖般或是用在公車亭, 顯示在合理大小的顯示器上我認為這樣的地圖盡可能去平衡兩者一邊是實際的表示形式, 另一邊是簡化的方式. 也就是我們的大腦中找路的描述方式。所以拉直的線條、 乾淨的轉角，還有，當然，這非常、 非常重要地理區域上的扭曲, 讓公共交通地圖變得容易懂.如果你，比方說，看看這兩個主要的穿過市區的通道在這邊的黃色跟橘色的通道, 再看看他們在實際的、 準確的街道地圖上的樣子再對比這兩個通道在我的版本的扭曲過的簡化的公共交通工具的地圖。 所以, 一張成功的公共交通工具的地圖，我們不應堅持在正確無誤的街道呈現，而是應該設計成符合但我們的大腦的運作的方式。 我得到的反應是非常多的。這是我所樂見的當然了, 對我自己而言, 我也非常高興能夠讓我在德國和希臘的親朋好友, 終於能夠搞懂我是靠什麼工作過活的。（笑聲）謝謝。（掌聲）"
