Talk	en	zh-tw
arthur_ganson_makes_moving_sculpture	"A few words about how I got started, and it has a lot to do with happiness, actually. When I was a very young child, I was extremely introverted and very much to myself. And, kind of as a way of surviving, I would go into my own very personal space, and I would make things. I would make things for people as a way of, you know, giving, showing them my love. I would go into these private places, and I would put my ideas and my passions into objects — and sort of learning how to speak with my hands. So, the whole activity of working with my hands and creating objects is very much connected with not only the idea realm, but also with very much the feeling realm. And the ideas are very disparate. I'm going to show you many different kinds of pieces, and there's no real connection between one or the other, except that they sort of come out of my brain, and they're all different sort of thoughts that are triggered by looking at life, and seeing nature and seeing objects, and just having kind of playful random thoughts about things. When I was a child, I started to explore motion. I fell in love with the way things moved, so I started to explore motion by making little flipbooks. And this is one that I did, probably like when I was around seventh grade, and I remember when I was doing this, I was thinking about that little rock there, and the pathway of the vehicles as they would fly through the air, and how the characters — (Laughter) — would come shooting out of the car, so, on my mind, I was thinking about the trajectory of the vehicles. And of course, when you're a little kid, there's always destruction. So, it has to end with this — (Laughter) — gratuitous violence. (Laughter) So that was how I first started to explore the way things moved, and expressed it. Now, when I went to college, I found myself making fairly complicated, fragile machines. And this really came about from having many different kinds of interests. When I was in high school, I loved to program computers, so I sort of liked the logical flow of events. I was also very interested in perhaps going into surgery and becoming a surgeon, because it meant working with my hands in a very focused, intense way. So, I started taking art courses, and I found a way to make sculpture that brought together my love for being very precise with my hands, with coming up with different kinds of logical flows of energy through a system. And also, working with wire — everything that I did was both a visual and a mechanical engineering decision at the same time. So, I was able to sort of exercise all of that. Now, this kind of machine is as close as I can get to painting. And it's full of many little trivial end points, like there's a little foot here that just drags around in circles and it doesn't really mean anything. It's really just for the sort of joy of its own triviality. The connection I have with engineering is the same as any other engineer, in that I love to solve problems. I love to figure things out, but the end result of what I'm doing is really completely ambiguous. (Laughter) That's pretty ambiguous. (Laughter) The next piece that is going to come up is an example of a kind of machine that is fairly complex. I gave myself the problem. Since I'm always liking to solve problems, I gave myself the problem of turning a crank in one direction, and solving all of the mechanical problems for getting this little man to walk back and forth. So, when I started this, I didn't have an overall plan for the machine, but I did have a sense of the gesture, and a sense of the shape and how it would occupy space. And then it was a matter of starting from one point and sort of building to that final point. That little gear there switches back and forth to change direction. And that's a little found object. So a lot of the pieces that I've made, they involve found objects. And it really — it's almost like doing visual puns all the time. When I see objects, I imagine them in motion. I imagine what can be said with them. This next one here, ""Machine with Wishbone,"" it came about from playing with this wishbone after dinner. You know, they say, never play with your food — but I always play with things. So, I had this wishbone, and I thought, it's kind of like a cowboy who's been on his horse for too long. (Laughter) And I started to make him walk across the table, and I thought, ""Oh, I can make a little machine that will do that."" So, I made this device, linked it up, and the wishbone walks. And because the wishbone is bone — it's animal — it's sort of a point where I think we can enter into it. And that's the whole piece. (Laughter) That's about that big. (Applause) This kind of work is also very much like puppetry, where the found object is, in a sense, the puppet, and I'm the puppeteer at first, because I'm playing with an object. But then I make the machine, which is sort of the stand-in for me, and it is able to achieve the action that I want. The next piece I'll show you is a much more conceptual thought, and it's a little piece called ""Cory's Yellow Chair."" I had this image in my mind, when I saw my son's little chair, and I saw it explode up and out. And — so the way I saw this in my mind at first, was that the pieces would explode up and out with infinite speed, and the pieces would move far out, and then they would begin to be pulled back with a kind of a gravitational feel, to the point where they would approach infinite speed back to the center. And they would coalesce for just a moment, so you could perceive that there was a chair there. For me, it's kind of a feeling about the fleetingness of the present moment, and I wanted to express that. Now, the machine is — in this case, it's a real approximation of that, because obviously you can't move physical matter infinitely with infinite speed and have it stop instantaneously. This whole thing is about four feet wide, and the chair itself is only about a few inches. (Applause) Now, this is a funny sort of conceptual thing, and yesterday we were talking about Danny Hillis' ""10,000 Year Clock."" So, we have a motor here on the left, and it goes through a gear train. There are 12 pairs of 50:1 reductions, so that means that the final speed of that gear on the end is so slow that it would take two trillion years to turn once. So I've invented it in concrete, because it doesn't really matter. (Laughter) Because it could run all the time. (Laughter) Now, a completely different thought. I'm always imagining myself in different situations. I'm imagining myself as a machine. What would I love? I would love to be bathed in oil. (Laughter) So, this machine does nothing but just bathe itself in oil. (Laughter) (Applause) And it's really, just sort of — for me, it was just really about the lusciousness of oil. (Laughter) And then, I got a call from a friend who wanted to have a show of erotic art, and I didn't have any pieces. But when she suggested to be in the show, this piece came to mind. So, it's sort of related, but you can see it's much more overtly erotic. And this one I call ""Machine with Grease."" It's just continually ejaculating, and it's — (Laughter) — this is a happy machine, I'll tell you. (Laughter) It's definitely happy. From an engineering point of view, this is just a little four-bar linkage. And then again, this is a found object, a little fan that I found. And I thought, what about the gesture of opening the fan, and how simply could I state something. And, in a case like this, I'm trying to make something which is clear but also not suggestive of any particular kind of animal or plant. For me, the process is very important, because I'm inventing machines, but I'm also inventing tools to make machines, and the whole thing is all sort of wrapped up from the beginning. So this is a little wire-bending tool. After many years of bending gears with a pair of pliers, I made that tool, and then I made this other tool for sort of centering gears very quickly — sort of developing my own little world of technology. My life completely changed when I found a spot welder. (Laughter) And that was that tool. It completely changed what I could do. Now here, I'm going to do a very poor job of silver soldering. This is not the way they teach you to silver solder when you're in school. I just like, throw it in. I mean, real jewelers put little bits of solder in. So, that's a finished gear. When I moved to Boston, I joined a group called the World Sculpture Racing Society. (Laughter) And the idea, their premise was that we wanted to show pieces of sculpture on the street, and there'd be no subjective decision about what was the best. It would be — whatever came across the finish line first would be the winner. (Laughter) So I made — this is my first racing sculpture, and I thought, ""Oh, I'm going to make a cart, and I'm going to have it — I'm going to have my hand writing 'faster,' so as I run down the street, the cart's going to talk to me and it's going to go, 'Faster, faster!' "" So, that's what it does. (Laughter) But then in the end, what I decided was every time you finish writing the word, I would stop and I would give the card to somebody on the side of the road. So I would never win the race because I'm always stopping. But I had a lot of fun. (Applause) Now, I only have two and a half minutes — I'm going to play this. This is a piece that, for me, is in some ways the most complete kind of piece. Because when I was a kid, I also played a lot of guitar. And when I had this thought, I was imagining that I would make — I would have a whole machine theater evening, where I would — you would have an audience, the curtain would open, and you'd be entertained by machines on stage. So, I imagined a very simple gestural dance that would be between a machine and just a very simple chair, and ... When I'm making these pieces, I'm always trying to find a point where I'm saying something very clearly and it's very simple, but also at the same time it's very ambiguous. And I think there's a point between simplicity and ambiguity which can allow a viewer to perhaps take something from it. And that leads me to the thought that all of these pieces start off in my own mind, in my heart, and I do my best at finding ways to express them with materials, and it always feels really crude. It's always a struggle, but somehow I manage to sort of get this thought out into an object, and then it's there, OK. It means nothing at all. The object itself just means nothing. Once it's perceived, and someone brings it into their own mind, then there's a cycle that has been completed. And to me, that's the most important thing because, ever since being a kid, I've wanted to communicate my passion and love. And that means the complete cycle of coming from inside, out to the physical, to someone perceiving it. So I'll just let this chair come down. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	先說一說這一切是怎麼開始的其實是跟開心好玩有很大的關係我小時候非常內向幾乎不和別人來往可能是爲了生存吧我會到我自己的祕密基地做些東西我會做東西給別人你知道，送東西，是我表達愛的方式我會到我的祕密基地裡然後把我的構想和熱情放到東西裡面算是學著怎麼用手說話吧所以做勞作和創造物件這整個活動不僅僅和我的構想世界相連接也與我的感官世界連接在一起我的各種構想差異很大 現在讓我們看一些不同的作品這些作品之間除了都是從我的腦海裡出來的以外，並沒有什麼關聯而且這些不同的構想，是透過審視生活，發現大自然和觀察物件而激發的或者只是對事物有一些好玩且隨性的想法 我小時候就開始探索運動我愛上了事物運動的方式所以，我從製作小動畫本子開始探索這個大概是我在七年級的時候做的我記得我在做的時候我在想那裡那個小石頭和汽車飛過的途徑還有這些人— （笑聲） 會怎樣從汽車裏面飛出去所以我腦海裏想的是汽車的軌跡當然啦，小時候總會想要搞些毀滅所以這是這樣結束的— （笑聲） 純粹的暴力 （笑聲） 那就是我開始探索物體運動的方式並且將其表達出來 現在當我上大學的時候我發現自己在製造很複雜而且很容易壞的機器這真的是從有很多不同的興趣產生的在高中的時候我喜歡寫電腦程式所以我也蠻喜歡事情的邏輯連貫性我對進入外科當一名外科醫生也很有興趣因為那需要用我的雙手工作而且工作內容非常密集而精細所以我開始上藝術課然後我找到了雕塑雕塑將我對精密手工的熱愛和透過一個系統而產生的另類邏輯能量結合在一起並且使用電線來做──我做的所有東西不但是視覺設計也是一個機械工程的決定所以基本上我在各方面都可以此練習 這種機器是我能做出最接近繪畫的機器到處都是很多細小的端點就像有個小腳在這裡繞圈圈而且它也沒什麼意義真的只是爲了它本身細小而繁瑣的樂趣我與工程的聯繫與其他任何一個工程師都一樣，就是因為我喜歡解決問題我喜歡把事情弄清楚但是我所做的事的結果是完全不可預料的。 （笑聲） 那真的是非常不可預料的 （笑聲） 下一個將要展示的作品是一種較複雜機器的好例子我給自己出了一個難題因為我總是喜歡解決難題所以就給自己出了個題目，如何朝同一個方向轉動把手就解決所有機械上的問題讓這個小人可以前後走動剛開始我對於這個機器沒有完整的計畫但是我的確有動作的構想還有對形狀的想法和它如何佔據空間這樣，這就是一個從一點開始然後完成到最後一點的問題了那個小齒輪會往前和往後，藉此以改變方向而且是一個小小的信手拈來的藝術品 所以，我做的很多小東西都有信手拈來的東西而且說真的──這幾乎一直就是視覺的雙關語當我看東西的時候，我會想像東西活動的樣子我會想像，這個東西可以怎麼說 下一個是連接著｢許願骨｣的機器是我在吃完晚飯後玩著許願骨的時候想出來的你知道的，他們都說，不要玩弄食物──可是我總是玩弄東西所以，我拿著許願骨的時候就一面想這就像一個騎馬騎太久了的牛仔 （笑聲） 然後我開始讓這個牛仔在桌上走著然後我就想：｢噢，我可以做一個帶著他走的機器呀｣所以我就做了這個設備，許願骨就開始走路了而且因為許願骨是骨頭，是動物我認為這算是一種切入點這就是整個機器 （笑聲） 大概就這麼大 (掌聲) 這種工作和木偶戲很像信手拈來的那個東西，在這個場景中就是木偶而剛開始時我是那個牽著線的人，因為是我在玩那個東西但後來我做了一個機器來代替我自己這個機器可以造就出我想要達到的動作 下一個我要展示的是比較抽象的概念我把這個作品叫做｢可瑞的黃椅子｣我看到我兒子的小椅子時，腦海裡就呈現出這個畫面然後我看到椅子向上、向外炸開然後──而我第一次在腦海中想像到的樣子就是椅子的部件會以無限快的速度，向上、向外炸開碎片會向遠處移動然後再被拉回來帶著一種引力的感覺被拉回來回來的時候也是會以無限快的速度回到中心點在一瞬間，這些部件就會完全密合所以你感覺到的會是，那裡曾有一把椅子對我而言，是一種當下瞬間的感覺而我想把這種感覺表達出來現在，在這個情況下，這個機器可說是這種感覺真實的近似體現因為你當然無法讓實物以無限快的速度移動然後又突然停止整個機器的寬度大約有四呎寬椅子本身也只有幾英吋 （掌聲） 現在這是一個有趣的概念性的東西而且昨天我們才說到希里斯的萬年鐘所以我們就有了左邊的這個馬達經過一個齒輪列車這裡有 12 對 50 比 1 的減速器也就是說到了最後一個齒輪的最終速度已經慢到兩兆年才會轉一圈因為不管發明在什麼上面都無所謂，所以我就把它放在水泥塊上 （笑聲） 反正這個機器一直都是開著的 （笑聲） 現在，這是完全不同的一個概念─我一直都想像著自己處於不同境況的情境我把自己想像成一個機器我會喜歡什麼？我應該會喜歡泡在油裡面 （笑聲） 所以，這個機器就只是泡在油裡，什麼也不做 （笑聲） （掌聲） 而且實際上對我來說─這個機器真的只是陳述著油脂的甜美 （笑聲） 後來我接到一個朋友的電話她想要辦一個情色藝術展可是我沒有可以參展的作品但是當她建議可以展出些什麼時，我想到了這個作品這個作品算是有點關聯，但是你們可看到，這個實在太過情色了我把這個作品叫做「機器和油脂」這個機器不斷地射精，而且─ （笑聲） 我可以告訴你，這是一個快樂的機器 （笑聲） 絕對很快樂 從工程的角度來說這是一個小小的四條槓的組合和前面一樣，這也是一個信手拈來，用我找到的一個小扇子做的然後我在想，打開扇子的姿勢是什麼我可以用多麼簡單的方式來說明某件事以這件作品為例，我試著要做出一個意象明確的東西但卻不會暗示著某種特定的動物或植物 對我來說，過程是很重要的因為我不僅發明機器我也發明製作機器的工具整件事就好像是從頭到尾一氣喝成的感覺這是一個小小的用來彎鐵絲的工具多年來一直用鉗子彎鐵絲做齒輪之後我做出那這個工具，後來我又做出了這個工具可以迅速把齒輪置中可說是自行發展我自己的科技世界我的人生在我找到了接點焊接器之後就完全改觀 （笑聲） 這就是那個工具這個工具完全改變了我所能做的事現在我要做一件很糟糕的銲錫工作這不是學校教的銲錫法我只是就這樣扔進去我的意思是，真正的珠寶技工只會放一點點的焊料這就是完成的齒輪 當我搬到波士頓之後我加入了一個稱為「世界雕塑競速協會」的團體 （笑聲） 整個概念就是，他們的前提就是我們想在街上展示一件件的雕塑而且沒有主觀的判斷來評判哪一個雕塑最好誰最先到達終點線誰就是贏家 （笑聲） 所以我就做了這個，我的第一個競速雕塑而且我想：「我要做一個推車我要─我要讓我可以寫『快一點』所以在我上街時，推車就會和我說話而且會走得『快一點，快一點』」這就是這件機器能做的 （笑聲） 但到最後，我決定的是每一次寫完那個字後我就會停下來，把推車給路邊的人因為我總是停下來，所以我從來沒有贏過競速比賽可是我覺得很好玩 （掌聲） 現在我只剩下兩分半鐘了─我現在要放這個這件作品在某種程度上，對我來說是最完整的一件作品我小的時候，我彈吉他彈得很多我在有這個想法時我想像著我會做一個─我會有一個完全由機器演奏的夜晚在那裡─你會有觀眾在拉開序幕的那一刻，舞台上會是由機器來表演所以我想像的是非常簡單的示意舞蹈就是機器和一張普通椅子間的舞蹈，而且,,,當我在做這些設作品，我一直試著找到一點讓我可以很清楚、簡單的說一件事但同時又很模稜兩可我認為，界於清楚與模稜兩可之間有一個點或許可以讓觀眾從中的到些什麼 這一點讓我想到這些作品都是從我的腦海中開始，從我心中開始而我盡可能找出用各種素材來表達的方式而且總是讓人覺得是未經人工雕琢的我總是在掙扎但是我似乎總能把我的想法注入物件中，然後就呈現出來了那並不具備任何意義物件本身並沒有任何意義當物件受到理解時，有人會把理解到的帶到他們的腦海中那麼循環就完成了對我而言，這一點是最重要的因為從孩童時期開始，我一直希望傳達我的熱情和我的愛這指的是一個完整的循環，是從內心開始向外到有形的世界，再由另一個人理解所以我只是要把椅子放下來 （掌聲） 謝謝！ （掌聲）
