Talk	en	zh-tw
arthur_potts_dawson_a_vision_for_sustainable_restaurants	"Restaurants and the food industry in general are pretty much the most wasteful industry in the world. For every calorie of food that we consume here in Britain today, 10 calories are taken to produce it. That's a lot. I want to take something rather humble to discuss. I found this in the farmers' market today, and if anybody wants to take it home and mash it later, you're very welcome to. The humble potato — and I've spent a long time, 25 years, preparing these. And it pretty much goes through eight different forms in its lifetime. First of all, it's planted, and that takes energy. It grows and is nurtured. It's then harvested. It's then distributed, and distribution is a massive issue. It's then sold and bought, and it's then delivered to me. I basically take it, prepare it, and then people consume it — hopefully they enjoy it. The last stage is basically waste, and this is is pretty much where everybody disregards it. There are different types of waste. There's a waste of time; there's a waste of space; there's a waste of energy; and there's a waste of waste. And every business I've been working on over the past five years, I'm trying to lower each one of these elements. Okay, so you ask what a sustainable restaurant looks like. Basically a restaurant just like any other. This is the restaurant, Acorn House. Front and back. So let me run you through a few ideas. Floor: sustainable, recyclable. Chairs: recycled and recyclable. Tables: Forestry Commission. This is Norwegian Forestry Commission wood. This bench, although it was uncomfortable for my mom — she didn't like sitting on it, so she went and bought these cushions for me from a local jumble sale — reusing, a job that was pretty good. I hate waste, especially walls. If they're not working, put a shelf on it, which I did, and that shows all the customers my products. The whole business is run on sustainable energy. This is powered by wind. All of the lights are daylight bulbs. Paint is all low-volume chemical, which is very important when you're working in the room all the time. I was experimenting with these — I don't know if you can see it — but there's a work surface there. And that's a plastic polymer. And I was thinking, well I'm trying to think nature, nature, nature. But I thought, no, no, experiment with resins, experiment with polymers. Will they outlive me? They probably might. Right, here's a reconditioned coffee machine. It actually looks better than a brand new one — so looking good there. Now reusing is vital. And we filter our own water. We put them in bottles, refrigerate them, and then we reuse that bottle again and again and again. Here's a great little example. If you can see this orange tree, it's actually growing in a car tire, which has been turned inside out and sewn up. It's got my compost in it, which is growing an orange tree, which is great. This is the kitchen, which is in the same room. I basically created a menu that allowed people to choose the amount and volume of food that they wanted to consume. Rather than me putting a dish down, they were allowed to help themselves to as much or as little as they wanted. Okay, it's a small kitchen. It's about five square meters. It serves 220 people a day. We generate quite a lot of waste. This is the waste room. You can't get rid of waste. But this story's not about eliminating it, it's about minimizing it. In here, I have produce and boxes that are unavoidable. I put my food waste into this dehydrating, desiccating macerator — turns food into an inner material, which I can store and then compost later. I compost it in this garden. All of the soil you can see there is basically my food, which is generated by the restaurant, and it's growing in these tubs, which I made out of storm-felled trees and wine casks and all kinds of things. Three compost bins — go through about 70 kilos of raw vegetable waste a week — really good, makes fantastic compost. A couple of wormeries in there too. And actually one of the wormeries was a big wormery. I had a lot of worms in it. And I tried taking the dried food waste, putting it to the worms, going, ""There you go, dinner."" It was like vegetable jerky, and killed all of them. I don't know how many worms [were] in there, but I've got some heavy karma coming, I tell you. (Laughter) What you're seeing here is a water filtration system. This takes the water out of the restaurant, runs it through these stone beds — this is going to be mint in there — and I sort of water the garden with it. And I ultimately want to recycle that, put it back into the loos, maybe wash hands with it, I don't know. So, water is a very important aspect. I started meditating on that and created a restaurant called Waterhouse. If I could get Waterhouse to be a no-carbon restaurant that is consuming no gas to start with, that would be great. I managed to do it. This restaurant looks a little bit like Acorn House — same chairs, same tables. They're all English and a little bit more sustainable. But this is an electrical restaurant. The whole thing is electric, the restaurant and the kitchen. And it's run on hydroelectricity, so I've gone from air to water. Now it's important to understand that this room is cooled by water, heated by water, filters its own water, and it's powered by water. It literally is Waterhouse. The air handling system inside it — I got rid of air-conditioning because I thought there was too much consumption going on there. This is basically air-handling. I'm taking the temperature of the canal outside, pumping it through the heat exchange mechanism, it's turning through these amazing sails on the roof, and that, in turn, is falling softly onto the people in the restaurant, cooling them, or heating them, as the need may be. And this is an English willow air diffuser, and that's softly moving that air current through the room. Very advanced, no air-conditioning — I love it. In the canal, which is just outside the restaurant, there is hundreds of meters of coil piping. This takes the temperature of the canal and turns it into this four-degrees of heat exchange. I have no idea how it works, but I paid a lot of money for it. (Laughter) And what's great is one of the chefs who works in that restaurant lives on this boat — it's off-grid; it generates all its own power. He's growing all his own fruit, and that's fantastic. There's no accident in names of these restaurants. Acorn House is the element of wood; Waterhouse is the element of water; and I'm thinking, well, I'm going to be making five restaurants based on the five Chinese medicine acupuncture specialities. I've got water and wood. I'm just about to do fire. I've got metal and earth to come. So you've got to watch your space for that. Okay. So this is my next project. Five weeks old, it's my baby, and it's hurting real bad. The People's Supermarket. So basically, the restaurants only really hit people who believed in what I was doing anyway. What I needed to do was get food out to a broader spectrum of people. So people — i.e., perhaps, more working-class — or perhaps people who actually believe in a cooperative. This is a social enterprise, not-for-profit cooperative supermarket. It really is about the social disconnect between food, communities in urban settings and their relationship to rural growers — connecting communities in London to rural growers. Really important. So I'm committing to potatoes; I'm committing to milk; I'm committing to leeks and broccoli — all very important stuff. I've kept the tiles; I've kept the floors; I've kept the trunking; I've got in some recycled fridges; I've got some recycled tills; I've got some recycled trolleys. I mean, the whole thing is is super-sustainable. In fact, I'm trying and I'm going to make this the most sustainable supermarket in the world. That's zero food waste. And no one's doing that just yet. In fact, Sainsbury's, if you're watching, let's have a go. Try it on. I'm going to get there before you. So nature doesn't create waste doesn't create waste as such. Everything in nature is used up in a closed continuous cycle with waste being the end of the beginning, and that's been something that's been nurturing me for some time, and it's an important statement to understand. If we don't stand up and make a difference and think about sustainable food, think about the sustainable nature of it, then we may fail. But, I wanted to get up and show you that we can do it if we're more responsible. Environmentally conscious businesses are doable. They're here. You can see I've done three so far; I've got a few more to go. The idea is embryonic. I think it's important. I think that if we reduce, reuse, refuse and recycle — right at the end there — recycling is the last point I want to make; but it's the four R's, rather than the three R's — then I think we're going to be on our way. So these three are not perfect — they're ideas. I think that there are many problems to come, but with help, I'm sure I'm going to find solutions. And I hope you all take part. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	餐廳和食品業大概是世界上最浪費資源的產業。現在我們在英國所吃掉的每一份熱量，就需要耗用十倍的熱量來生產，真的很多。我想要來談談一些較為簡樸的作法。這是我今天在農夫市場找到的，如果有誰想要帶回家搗成泥，就請便吧。這只是個馬鈴薯，我花了很長的時間，大約25年，才想出這個道理。在它的生命裡，大約會歷經八個不同的型式。首先，我們要栽種，這就耗掉不少能源，馬鈴薯會成長，也會吸收養份，我們才能收成。接下來則是配銷，配銷牽扯到的問題很多。再過來則是買賣過程，送到了我的手上，我則是準備拿來烹調，讓人們吃下肚，希望大家都能滿意。最後的階段則是廢棄物處理，這也是大家最為忽略的階段。浪費可分為幾種型態，有人浪費時間、有人浪費空間、有人浪費能源，也有人浪費廢棄物。我在過去五年所參與過的每一項工作裡，都致力於降低浪費。 好，你會問到底注重環保的餐廳長什麼樣子？其實這種餐廳和別的沒有什麼不同，就是個餐廳，這間叫做「橡實屋」，正面和背面的照片。我來說明幾個觀念：地板：耐磨、可回收利用。椅子：回收製作，且可再回收利用。桌子：契約林地生產製造。這是用挪威契約林地生產的木材所製造，這張長椅，我媽坐上去很不舒服，她很不喜歡坐在上頭，但她跑到當地的雜貨拍賣店買了些椅墊，全是回收再製作的，手工還不賴。我討厭浪費，尤其是牆壁，如果空著沒用，就放個架子上去，我就是這麼做的，還可以向顧客展示我的產品。整間餐廳都是使用永續能源，像是利用風力發電，裡面的燈泡也全都改成白光燈泡，油漆則是選用化學成份最低的品牌，這對全天都在餐廳裡工作的人來說是很重要的。我一直在實驗這個，我不知道你們是否看得出來，但我在這表面還多漆了一層，那是塑化聚合物。我一直在想著要用自然的東西，但我想也可以用合成樹脂來做些實驗，用聚合物做些實驗。這些東西會比我長壽嗎？或許會哦。這是一台重新調整過的咖啡機，看起來比一台新的還要好，擺在這裡真好。重新回收利用資源是很重要的，我們還過濾自己要喝的水，把水裝進瓶子裡，放進冰箱，一再地重覆使用同一個瓶子。這裡還有一個很棒的小例子，看看這株橘子樹，它其實是被種在一個汽車輪胎裡，我們把車胎內面翻出來，再縫起來而已。我還放了些堆肥在裡頭，就長出了這株橘子樹，很棒吧！ 這是廚房，就在同一個房間裡。我把菜單設計成不只有價錢而已，還可以挑選食物的份量，這樣大家就可以各取所需，而不是每次都由我端出相同份量的菜餚，我要讓顧客自己決定自己要吃多少份量。好，這個廚房不大，大約只有五平方公尺而已，但一天卻可以供應220人用餐。我們每天會製造出許多廢物，就堆在這個廢棄物室。人們不可能不製造廢棄物，但我要說的不是去消滅廢棄物，而是儘量減少廢棄物的產生。我會產出廢棄物，還得處理廢棄物，這都是免不了的工作。我把廚餘放進乾燥脫水機裡，把它們變成乾燥的狀態，我就可以先儲存著，日後再來做堆肥。 我在院子裡製作堆肥，你在院子裡看到的所有土壤，其實都是食物殘渣，是餐廳裡的廚餘，我把廚餘放進這些管子裡，我用漂流木和酒桶這類東西做出這些管子。三個堆肥箱子...每週要處理大約70公斤的蔬菜廚餘，真的很棒，是很棒的堆肥，也有很多蟲子住在裡頭。其中有一種蟲子真的很大，各種蟲子都有，有一次我還把一片乾燥的廚餘，拿到蟲子前面說：「給你當晚餐。」可能是那片乾燥蔬菜有問題吧...蟲子全都死了。我不知道裡頭到底有多少蟲，但我想我會有很嚴重的報應吧！(笑聲)你現在看到的是濾水系統，水會從這裡流到餐廳外面，流過這一層石頭來過濾，這裡應該有種些薄荷才對，我會用過濾過的水來澆花。我還想更進一步來回收利用這些水，或許用來洗手吧，我不知道。 水是很重要的一環，我深入研究之後，開了一家叫做「水世界」的餐廳。如果我能把水世界打造成一個沒有碳排放的餐廳，就從不要用瓦斯開始，那一定很棒！我一定會想辦法做到的！這家餐廳看起來有點像橡實屋，同樣的桌椅，全都是英國製造，而且很耐用，但這間餐廳是間電氣餐廳，全部只使用電，包含餐廳和廚房，全都是靠水力發電，所以我已經用過風力和水力發電了。各位要瞭解一點，這很重要，這個房間是靠水來降溫，也靠水來供應暖氣，回收的水會再過濾，運用水來發電，名符其實的水世界。裡頭的排風系統，我沒有使用冷氣機，因為我覺得太耗能源了，所以只簡單使用這種排風系統，我把外面河道的溫度引進來，利用熱能交換的機制把它抽進來，靠屋頂上那些令人驚歎的帆轉動，讓風緩緩地降在餐廳客人身上，讓他們感受到涼風，或是熱風，隨季節而定。這是英國製的柳條風扇，它緩慢地轉動，讓氣流在房間裡流動。很先進吧？完全沒有使用冷氣機，我愛死這個了！在餐廳外面有一條河，我們架設了數百公尺的管線，把河道上的溫度和室內溫度交換，大約有4度的溫差。我不知道這個原理是什麼，但我花了一大筆錢做這個。(笑聲)最棒的是，有一個在餐廳裡工作的廚師，就住在船上，完全不使用電，而是自行發電，他種植他自己所需的水果，真是太棒了！ 這些餐廳的命名是有意義的，橡實屋的主題是木材，水世界的主題是水，我在想，我想要有五間餐廳，要以中國的五行為主題，我已經有水和木了，我還要開一間火餐廳，還有以金和土為主題的餐廳。各位等著瞧吧！好，這是我的下一個計畫，我想了五個星期了，我正在構想，真的很不好做，我要開一間「平民超市」。基本上，我開的餐廳只能吸引那些與我志同道合的顧客，但我想要把我的食物推廣給更多人。我的目標是藍領階級，或是那些相信互相合作的人，這是一個社會主義企業，不以營利為目的的超市。我們在這裡只談食物和都市社區間的社會聯繫，以及社區和農夫間的關係，我們要把倫敦社區和農夫的關係重新建立起來，這真的很重要。我要賣馬鈴薯，我要賣牛奶，我要賣葱和甘藍菜，全都是很重要的食物。我已經鋪好地磚，整理好地板，準備好箱子，也準備了一些回收再利用的冰箱，還有回收再利用的收銀機和手推車。這整個計畫簡直是超極環保的，我想要把這間超市打造成全世界最環保的超市。完全沒有食物會被浪費，還沒有人這麼做過。如果你關心這類議題的話，目前只有聖貝瑞超市在這麼做，我會比他們更早做到！ 自然就不會有浪費，不會出現這麼浪費的情形。自然界的一切都是在一個封閉的循環裡流動，廢棄物會是終點也是起點，終有一天我們也會受益於這些廢棄物，這是我們必須瞭解的重要觀念。如果我們不挺身而出，為世界做出一些改變，如果我們不去思考食物的永續，不去思考大自然的永續，我們終有一天會滅亡。我要身先士卒，讓各位知道，我們只要多負擔一些責任就可以做到，有環保意識的企業是可行的，這種公司是存在的，我就已經有三家這樣的公司了，我還會繼續做下去。這個觀念還在胚胎階段，但我認為還是很重要，我們要做到減量、重覆使用、拒絕浪費、回收利用，就寫在這下面。回收再利用是我要強調的最後一個重點，所以總共有四個重點，而不只是三個而已。這麼做就可以讓我們達成目標，這三家公司還不是很完美，只是起頭而已。我認為我們會遇到許多困難，但只有靠別人的協助，我相信一定能找到解決之道，我希望各位都能參與。 謝謝各位！
