Talk	en	zh-tw
arvind_gupta_turning_trash_into_toys_for_learning	"My name is Arvind Gupta, and I'm a toymaker. I've been making toys for the last 30 years. The early '70s, I was in college. It was a very revolutionary time. It was a political ferment, so to say — students out in the streets of Paris, revolting against authority. America was jolted by the anti-Vietnam movement, the Civil Rights movement. In India, we had the Naxalite movement, the [unclear] movement. But you know, when there is a political churning of society, it unleashes a lot of energy. The National Movement of India was testimony to that. Lots of people resigned from well-paid jobs and jumped into the National Movement. Now in the early '70s, one of the great programs in India was to revitalize primary science in village schools. There was a person, Anil Sadgopal, did a Ph.D. from Caltech and returned back as a molecular biologist in India's cutting-edge research institute, the TIFR. At 31, he was not able to relate the kind of [unclear] research, which he was doing with the lives of the ordinary people. So he designed and went and started a village science program. Many people were inspired by this. The slogan of the early '70s was ""Go to the people. Live with them; love them. Start from what they know. Build on what they have."" This was kind of the defining slogan. Well I took one year. I joined Telco, made TATA trucks, pretty close to Pune. I worked there for two years, and I realized that I was not born to make trucks. Often one doesn't know what one wants to do, but it's good enough to know what you don't want to do. So I took one year off, and I went to this village science program. And it was a turning point. It was a very small village — a weekly bazaar where people, just once in a week, they put in all the vats. So I said, ""I'm going to spend a year over here."" So I just bought one specimen of everything which was sold on the roadside. And one thing which I found was this black rubber. This is called a cycle valve tube. When you pump in air in a bicycle, you use a bit of this. And some of these models — so you take a bit of this cycle valve tube, you can put two matchsticks inside this, and you make a flexible joint. It's a joint of tubes. You start by teaching angles — an acute angle, a right angle, an obtuse angle, a straight angle. It's like its own little coupling. If you have three of them, and you loop them together, well you make a triangle. With four, you make a square, you make a pentagon, you make a hexagon, you make all these kind of polygons. And they have some wonderful properties. If you look at the hexagon, for instance, it's like an amoeba, which is constantly changing its own profile. You can just pull this out, this becomes a rectangle. You give it a push, this becomes a parallelogram. But this is very shaky. Look at the pentagon, for instance, pull this out — it becomes a boat shape trapezium. Push it and it becomes house shaped. This becomes an isosceles triangle — again, very shaky. This square might look very square and prim. Give it a little push — this becomes a rhombus. It becomes kite-shaped. But give a child a triangle, he can't do a thing to it. Why use triangles? Because triangles are the only rigid structures. We can't make a bridge with squares because the train would come, it would start doing a jig. Ordinary people know about this because if you go to a village in India, they might not have gone to engineering college, but no one makes a roof placed like this. Because if they put tiles on top, it's just going to crash. They always make a triangular roof. Now this is people science. And if you were to just poke a hole over here and put a third matchstick, you'll get a T joint. And if I were to poke all the three legs of this in the three vertices of this triangle, I would make a tetrahedron. So you make all these 3D shapes. You make a tetrahedron like this. And once you make these, you make a little house. Put this on top. You can make a joint of four. You can make a joint of six. You just need a ton. Now this was — you make a joint of six, you make an icosahedron. You can play around with it. This makes an igloo. Now this is in 1978. I was a 24-year-old young engineer. And I thought this was so much better than making trucks. (Applause) If you, as a matter of fact, put four marbles inside, you simulate the molecular structure of methane, CH4. Four atoms of hydrogen, the four points of the tetrahedron, which means the little carbon atom. Well since then, I just thought that I've been really privileged to go to over 2,000 schools in my country — village schools, government schools, municipal schools, Ivy League schools — I've been invited by most of them. And every time I go to a school, I see a gleam in the eyes of the children. I see hope. I see happiness in their faces. Children want to make things. Children want to do things. Now this, we make lots and lots of pumps. Now this is a little pump with which you could inflate a balloon. It's a real pump. You could actually pop the balloon. And we have a slogan that the best thing a child can do with a toy is to break it. So all you do is — it's a very kind of provocative statement — this old bicycle tube and this old plastic [unclear] This filling cap will go very snugly into an old bicycle tube. And this is how you make a valve. You put a little sticky tape. This is one-way traffic. Well we make lots and lots of pumps. And this is the other one — that you just take a straw, and you just put a stick inside and you make two half-cuts. Now this is what you do, is you bend both these legs into a triangle, and you just wrap some tape around. And this is the pump. And now, if you have this pump, it's like a great, great sprinkler. It's like a centrifuge. If you spin something, it tends to fly out. (Applause) Well in terms of — if you were in Andhra Pradesh, you would make this with the palmyra leaf. Many of our folk toys have great science principles. If you spin-top something, it tends to fly out. If I do it with both hands, you can see this fun Mr. Flying Man. Right. This is a toy which is made from paper. It's amazing. There are four pictures. You see insects, you see frogs, snakes, eagles, butterflies, frogs, snakes, eagles. Here's a paper which you could [unclear] — designed by a mathematician at Harvard in 1928, Arthur Stone, documented by Martin Gardner in many of his many books. But this is great fun for children. They all study about the food chain. The insects are eaten by the frogs; the frogs are eaten by the snakes; the snakes are eaten by the eagles. And this can be, if you had a whole photocopy paper — A4 size paper — you could be in a municipal school, you could be in a government school — a paper, a scale and a pencil — no glue, no scissors. In three minutes, you just fold this up. And what you could use it for is just limited by your imagination. If you take a smaller paper, you make a smaller flexagon. With a bigger one, you make a bigger one. Now this is a pencil with a few slots over here. And you put a little fan here. And this is a hundred-year-old toy. There have been six major research papers on this. There's some grooves over here, you can see. And if I take a reed — if I rub this, something very amazing happens. Six major research papers on this. As a matter of fact, Feynman, as a child, was very fascinated by this. He wrote a paper on this. And you don't need the three billion-dollar Hadron Collider for doing this. (Laughter) (Applause) This is there for every child, and every child can enjoy this. If you want to put a colored disk, well all these seven colors coalesce. And this is what Newton talked about 400 years back, that white light's made of seven colors, just by spinning this around. This is a straw. What we've done, we've just sealed both the ends with tape, nipped the right corner and the bottom left corner, so there's holes in the opposite corners, there's a little hole over here. This is a kind of a blowing straw. I just put this inside this. There's a hole here, and I shut this. And this costs very little money to make — great fun for children to do. What we do is make a very simple electric motor. Now this is the simplest motor on Earth. The most expensive thing is the battery inside this. If you have a battery, it costs five cents to make it. This is an old bicycle tube, which gives you a broad rubber band, two safety pins. This is a permanent magnet. Whenever current flows through the coil, this becomes an electromagnet. It's the interaction of both these magnets which makes this motor spin. We made 30,000. Teachers who have been teaching science for donkey years, they just muck up the definition and they spit it out. When teachers make it, children make it. You can see a gleam in their eye. They get a thrill of what science is all about. And this science is not a rich man's game. In a democratic country, science must reach to our most oppressed, to the most marginalized children. This program started with 16 schools and spread to 1,500 government schools. Over 100,000 children learn science this way. And we're just trying to see possibilities. Look, this is the tetrapak — awful materials from the point of view of the environment. There are six layers — three layers of plastic, aluminum — which are are sealed together. They are fused together, so you can't separate them. Now you can just make a little network like this and fold them and stick them together and make an icosahedron. So something which is trash, which is choking all the seabirds, you could just recycle this into a very, very joyous — all the platonic solids can be made with things like this. This is a little straw, and what you do is you just nip two corners here, and this becomes like a baby crocodile's mouth. You put this in your mouth, and you blow. (Honk) It's children's delight, a teacher's envy, as they say. You're not able to see how the sound is produced, because the thing which is vibrating goes inside my mouth. I'm going to keep this outside, to blow out. I'm going to suck in air. (Honk) So no one actually needs to muck up the production of sound with wire vibrations. The other is that you keep blowing at it, keep making the sound, and you keep cutting it. And something very, very nice happens. (Honk) (Applause) And when you get a very small one — (Honk) This is what the kids teach you. You can also do this. Well before I go any further, this is something worth sharing. This is a touching slate meant for blind children. This is strips of Velcro, this is my drawing slate, and this is my drawing pen, which is basically a film box. It's basically like a fisherman's line, a fishing line. And this is wool over here. If I crank the handle, all the wool goes inside. And what a blind child can do is to just draw this. Wool sticks on Velcro. There are 12 million blind children in our country — (Applause) who live in a world of darkness. And this has come as a great boon to them. There's a factory out there making our children blind, not able to provide them with food, not able to provide them with vitamin A. But this has come as a great boon for them. There are no patents. Anyone can make it. This is very, very simple. You can see, this is the generator. It's a crank generator. These are two magnets. This is a large pulley made by sandwiching rubber between two old CDs. Small pulley and two strong magnets. And this fiber turns a wire attached to an LED. If I spin this pulley, the small one's going to spin much faster. There will be a spinning magnetic field. Lines, of course, would be cut, the force will be generated. And you can see, this LED is going to glow. So this is a small crank generator. Well, this is, again, it's just a ring, a steel ring with steel nuts. And what you can do is just, if you give it a twirl, well they just keep going on. And imagine a bunch of kids standing in a circle and just waiting for the steel ring to be passed on. And they'd be absolutely joyous playing with this. Well in the end, what we can also do: we use a lot of old newspapers to make caps. This is worthy of Sachin Tendulkar. It's a great cricket cap. (Laughter) (Applause) When first you see Nehru and Gandhi, this is the Nehru cap — just half a newspaper. We make lots of toys with newspapers, and this is one of them. And this is — you can see — this is a flapping bird. All of our old newspapers, we cut them into little squares. And if you have one of these birds — children in Japan have been making this bird for many, many years. And you can see, this is a little fantail bird. Well in the end, I'll just end with a story. This is called ""The Captain's Hat Story."" The captain was a captain of a sea-going ship. It goes very slowly. And there were lots of passengers on the ship, and they were getting bored, so the captain invited them on the deck. ""Wear all your colorful clothes and sing and dance, and I'll provide you with good food and drinks."" And the captain would wear a cap everyday and join in the regalia. The first day, it was a huge umbrella cap, like a captain's cap. That night, when the passengers would be sleeping, he would give it one more fold, and the second day, he would be wearing a fireman's cap — with a little shoot just like a designer cap, because it protects the spinal cord. And the second night, he would take the same cap and give it another fold. And the third day, it would be a Shikari cap — just like an adventurer's cap. And the third night, he would give it two more folds — and this is a very, very famous cap. If you've seen any of our Bollywood films, this is what the policeman wears, it's called a zapalu cap. It's been catapulted to international glory. And we must not forget that he was the captain of the ship. So that's a ship. And now the end: everyone was enjoying the journey very much. They were singing and dancing. Suddenly there was a storm and huge waves. And all the ship can do is to dance and pitch along with the waves. A huge wave comes and slaps the front and knocks it down. And another one comes and slaps the aft and knocks it down. And there's a third one over here. This swallows the bridge and knocks it down. And the ship sinks, and the captain has lost everything, but for a life jacket. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	我叫Arvind Gupta，我製作玩具過去30年我一直在製作玩具70年代早期我還是大學生那是一個非常革命性的時期是政治上的動亂巴黎的學生上街遊行向威權挑戰反越戰的運動以及人權運動讓美國處於躁動的階段在印度，我們有納薩爾派的運動和其他的運動但你知道當社會上有政治的擾動時就會宣洩出許多能量印度的國民運動就是明顯的見證許多人辭掉自己高薪的工作投身到了國民運動中去了在70年代初期印度最重要的計畫之一就是復興鄉鎮學校的基礎科學 有一個叫做Gopal的人，他在加州理工學院拿到博士回來後成為分子生物學家在TIFR，印度最重要的研究中心工作在31歲時，他沒有辦法把自己正在進行的研究應用到人民的日常生活所以他企劃了一個鄉鎮科學計畫，並開始實行許多人都被這個想法所激發70年代初期的口號是「走向人民」「與他們一起生活，愛他們」「從人民知道的著手，從他們已擁有開始建設」這是很代表性的口號 我花了一年的時間我進入Telco工作，在哪裡生產TATA卡車，就在Pune附近我在那裡工作了兩年然後我發現自己不適合去做卡車人常常不知道自己想要做什麼但是知道自己不想做什麼也夠好的了所以我請了一年假，去參加這個鄉鎮科學計畫這成為一個轉捩點那是一個小村落每星期有一次市集村民在這一星期一次的市集會把東西拿出來都裝在桶里我告訴自己：「你將要在這裡過一年了」我在市集裡每一個路邊攤都買了一個東西做樣本其中一個我找到的是一條黑色的橡皮圈 這個叫做氣門嘴當你要幫腳踏車充氣時會用到它還有一些這些模型也會現在你拿起一個氣門嘴你可以把兩根火柴放進去，就可以做出一個可動關節兩根管子的連結，你可以從教角度開始銳角，直角，鈍角，平角像一個小小的耦合如果你有三個，然後你把它們連起來把它作成一個三角形有四個，你可以作個正方形做個五角型，做個六角形你可以做出所有這些多邊形然後他們有一些奇妙的特質比如說你看著一個六角形它就像是一隻阿米巴，可以不停的改變外貌把這個拔下來，它就變成矩形稍稍拉開，便成了平行四邊形但這總是可活動的比如說這個五邊形把這個拔起，就變成像船一樣的梯形推一下就成了房子的型狀這樣就變成等腰三角形再次展現它有多靈巧這個正方形看起來非常整齊方正稍微推弄一下，它變成了菱形像風箏的形狀但僅給小孩一個三角形他玩不出什麼變化 為什麼我們用三角形因為三角形是唯一堅固的結構我們不能用正方形來造橋因為當火車經過時這種橋會劇烈搖晃這是一般人的常識因為你只要到印度任一村莊瞧瞧他們也許沒有主修工程的大學文憑但沒有人會把屋頂蓋成這樣因為這種屋頂一放上瓦片就會垮掉他們蓋的一定是三角形的屋頂所以這是常民知識 然後如果你在這裡戳一個洞接著放進第三根火柴你就有一個Ｔ型接頭如果我在這個三角形的三個頂點上戳進去這個T形連接的三條邊我能做出一個四面體你可以做出這些3D多面體做出一個像這樣的四面體當你做完這些你就能做出來個房子。把這個放在上面，你就能連成四個，連成六個。你只需要很多這些（小零件）你看這個-這是做成的六個連在一起的你能做出一個二十面體你可以隨意把玩這個小東西作個雪屋1978年我當時是二十四歲的年輕工程師然後我想，這比製造卡車棒多了(掌聲)事實上，如果你放四顆玻璃彈球在裏面這樣你就能造出甲烷（CH4)的分子結構是氫的四個原子，四面體的四個點，就是碳原子 從那時起我覺得我萬分有幸能夠去我們國家的兩千所學校鄉村學校，國立學校市立學校，常春藤聯盟學校我被很多所學校邀請每當我去一所學校看到孩子們眼中閃著光我能看到希望。我能在他們臉上看到快樂。孩子們想要製作東西。孩子們想要動手去做。 瞧這兒，我們做了很多打氣筒。這是一個小的氣筒你能用它來給氣球充氣。這可是個真正的打氣筒，你能把氣球給打爆了。我們有句話說：一個孩子能對玩具做的最好的事情就是拆掉它那我們就這麼做吧 —這聽上去多有挑戰性啊這個舊的自行車內胎和舊塑料管這個塑料管可以很容易地放進舊自行車內胎這是怎樣做個閥門你在這兒貼上膠帶這樣就是單向流通的了我們做了很多很多的泵這是另外一個你拿跟吸管，放根小棍進去切兩個口現在你這樣你把這腿彎成一個三角形然後纏上膠帶這就成了一個泵那你有了這個泵就好像你有了個很棒的灑水器好像離心機如果你插在水裏面轉，水就會飛出來 （掌聲） 那麼—如果你在安德拉普拉德士你就能用棕櫚葉子做這個很多我們的民間玩具都包含很多科學原理如果你旋轉東西，那它可能會飛起來如果我兩個手來搓，你就能看到這個有趣的飛人先生了。瞧這是個紙做的玩具，讓人稱奇。有四個圖片你看有昆蟲有青蛙、蛇青蛙、蛇、鷹這是張能讓你一起跳舞的紙在1928年由一位哈佛的數學家設計他名叫亞瑟斯棟這在馬丁嘉德勒的很多著作中記錄過但對小孩來說這太好玩了他們都學過食物鏈像是青蛙吃蟲子；蛇類吃青蛙老鷹吃蛇類然後就可以變成，如果你有一張紙A4大小的紙不管你是在市立學校還是國立學校只要一張紙，一把尺子，一支鉛筆，不需要膠水不需要剪刀三分鐘，你就能夠折好然後你就能拿它做任何你想的到的應用如果你那拿張小點的紙，你就做個小點的翻紙大張一點的紙，你就能做的大一點 這裡有一支鉛筆，上面有些凹槽然後在這人安上一片扇葉這是個有百年曆史的玩具已經有六篇著名的研究論文研究它這兒有些溝槽，你能看到如果我拿個簧片，然後我刮這個鉛筆神奇的事情發生了六篇重要的研究論文就是探討它的事實上，有個小孩子名叫費因曼很為之著迷後來他寫了一篇關於它的論文你不需要一台三十億美元的分子對撞機就能做這些這樣的玩具每個孩子都能得到每個孩子都會喜歡玩如果你拿一張彩色的磁盤那麼這七種顏色合并這就是牛頓在400年前提到的白光是由七色光組成只需要轉動它就可以看到 這是一根吸管我們已經把這兩端用膠條封起來在右下角和左上角剪個口子所以在相對的兩邊都有一個口子，這裡有個口子這就成了根吹氣管我把它放到這裡面這兒有個洞，我堵上它製作這些基本上都不花錢卻能給孩子們來帶很多樂趣 現在我們做一個很簡單的發電機這是世界上最簡單的發電機了他最昂貴的部份就是裏面的這枚電池如果你有了一枚電池，那麼只要再花5分錢來製作它這是個用舊的自行車內胎一個寬橡膠帶，兩枚別針這是一塊永磁鐵當電流經過線圈，他就成了電磁鐵正是這些磁力的相互作用使得這個電機轉起來我們做了3萬個 那些教授科學多年的老師們他們把定義弄混然後生硬地講出來但是如果老師製作這個，孩子們也動手作你能看到他們眼中閃爍的光芒他們瞭解到科學究竟是什麽並為之感到興奮這樣的科學不是富人的遊戲在一個民主的國度科學應該覆蓋到哪怕是最底層的人們讓那些最邊緣化的孩子也能隨時掌握這個項目從最初的16所學校現在發展到1500所國立學校超過十萬名兒童通過這樣的項目學習科學我們仍在嘗試新的發張可能 瞧，這是一個利樂包從環保的角度來講這些都是不好的材料這裡一共有六層 — 三層塑料，鋁 —都封在一起這些層都是熔在一起的所以不能分開現在你可以把它們連在一起折叠並且粘在一起這樣就能做成一個二十面體所以這些本來是垃圾的東西這些噎住海鳥的廢物你可以把它回收，變成非常好玩的玩具它可以做成任何的規範多面體 這裡有根小吸管你把在這兒剪兩個角這就像個小鱷魚的嘴把它放到嘴裡，然後往裡吹氣（吹出響聲）人麼說，這讓孩子們高興，老師們嫉妒你不能看到聲音是怎麼產生的因為振動的部份在我嘴裏面現在我把它放在外面，我往裡吸氣（發出聲音）所以沒必要把聲音原理用晦澀難懂的線性振動圖來表現出來另一種辦法是一直不停的吹氣不停的發出響聲然後不斷簡短吸管那麼將會出現很美好的現象（發出響聲，越短聲音越高）（掌聲）那麼當你只剩很短的一段（嬰兒哭聲）這就是孩子們教你的東西。你也能自己動手試試 在我講後面的故事之前這里有些值得跟大家分享的東西這是一塊給盲童的觸摸板這上面是一條條的尼龍鉤扣條，這是我的畫板這是我的畫筆其實就是一個膠捲盒這就像是個漁夫的線漁線這是一捆毛線我轉動手柄，毛線就收進去了那麼一個盲童可以拿著這個畫畫毛線會鉤在尼龍勾上我們國家有一千兩百萬盲童（掌聲）他們生活在黑暗中而這對他們來說是多麼大的恩惠也許有個工廠正讓我們的孩子們失明不能給他們提供食物不能給他們提供維他命A但是這對他們來說卻意味著天大的福音這個沒有任何專利，隨便什麽人都可以作出來 這非常非常的簡單你瞧，這是個發電機，曲柄發電機這兒有兩個磁鐵這個大滑輪由兩張舊CD夾著一片橡膠片組成小滑輪和兩個強性磁鐵這條導線連接著LED燈當我轉這個滑輪的時候，小滑輪轉動得更快就產生了一個旋轉的磁場磁場線被切割，那麼產生了力現在你能看見，LED燈就能亮起來這就是個小型的曲柄電機 那麼再來看這個這是一個圈，一個鋼圈還有些鋼螺母你能做的呢就是彈轉它們它們就會這麼轉下去現在想像一群孩子站在一起圍成一個圈等著輪到自己來玩這個鋼圈他們將會玩得多麼開心 最後，我們還可以這樣做我們用很多廢報紙來做帽子這頂帽子對沙奇德盧卡（著名板球運動員）來說挺值錢這是頂了不起的板球帽但是如果你看到尼赫魯和甘地這是一頂尼赫魯帽 - 只要半張報紙我們用報紙可以做很多玩具這是其中之一而這個 - 你瞧這是一隻振翅的小鳥我們的舊報紙，我們把它們裁成小方塊如果你有這麼樣的一隻小鳥 —日本的孩子已經折這種小鳥很多年了看這就是一隻小小的扇尾鳥 最後，我來用一個故事來結束我的演講。這個故事名字叫做“船長的帽子”船長是一位航海船的船長船行得很慢船上有很多的乘客他們很無聊，所以船長邀請大家來到甲板上穿上你們多彩的衣服，盡情的唱歌跳舞吧我會為你們提供上好的食物和美酒船長每天都帶著一頂不同的帽子加入盛裝的人們第一天，他戴了一頂巨大的傘形帽就像頂船長帽到了夜裡，當乘客們都睡著了他把帽子折了一道那麼第二天，他就戴了一頂消防帽後面留了個尖角，像是頂設計師專門設計的帽子因為這尖角能保護脊柱到了第二天夜裡，他拿出同樣一頂帽子然後又折了一道第三天，這就成了獵裝帽像是個冒險家帽子第三天晚上，他又折了兩道這就成了一頂非常非常有名的帽子如果你曾經看過寶萊屋電影這就是警察戴的這叫做zapalu帽子這帽子已經蜚聲世界了 我們別忘了他可是這艘船上的船長哦所以這是一艘船現在到了結局每個人非常享受這次旅程大家唱啊跳啊突然，刮起了狂風，掀起了巨浪船只能隨著巨浪上下顛簸一陣巨浪打來，砸在船頭把船頭打了下來又這個大浪吧船尾打了下來第三個大浪湧過來吞沒了船長室船沉了船長什麽都沒了只剩一件救生衣 謝謝你們的聆聽 (掌聲)
