Talk	en	zh-tw
asher_hasan_s_message_of_peace_from_pakistan	"Namaste. Salaam. Shalom. Sat Sri Akal. Greetings to all of you from Pakistan. It is often said that we fear that which we do not know. And Pakistan, in this particular vein, is very similar. Because it has provoked, and does provoke, a visceral anxiety in the bellies of many a Western soul, especially when viewed through the monochromatic lens of turbulence and turmoil. But there are many other dimensions to Pakistan. And what follows is a stream of images, a series of images captured by some of Pakistan's most dynamic and young photographers, that aims to give you an alternative glimpse, a look inside the hearts and minds of some ordinary Pakistani citizens. Here are some of the stories they wanted us to share with you. My name is Abdul Khan. I come from Peshawar. I hope that you will be able to see not just my Taliban-like beard, but also the richness and color of my perceptions, aspirations and dreams, as rich and colorful as the satchels that I sell. My name is Meher and this is my friend Irim. I hope to become a vet when I grow up so that I can take care of stray cats and dogs who wander around the streets of the village that I live near Gilgit, northern Pakistan. My name is Kailash. And I like to enrich lives through technicolored glass. Madame, would you like some of those orange bangles with the pink polka dots? My name is Zamin. And I'm an IDP, an internally displaced person, from Swat. Do you see me on the other side of this fence? Do I matter, or really exist for you? My name is Iman. I am a fashion model, an up-and-coming model from Lahore. Do you see me simply smothered in cloth? Or can you move beyond my veil and see me for who I truly am inside? My name is Ahmed. I am an Afghan refugee from the Khyber agency. I have come from a place of intense darkness. And that is why I want to illuminate the world. My name is Papusay. My heart and drum beat as one. If religion is the opium of the masses, then for me, music is my one and only ganja. A rising tide lifts all boats. And the rising tide of India's spectacular economic growth has lifted over 400 million Indians into a buoyant middle class. But there are still over 650 million Indians, Pakistanis, Sri Lankans, Bangladeshis, Nepalese, who remain washed up on the shores of poverty. Therefore as India and Pakistan, as you and I, it behooves us to transcend our differences, to celebrate our diversity, to leverage our common humanity. Our collective vision at Naya Jeevan, which for many of you, as you all recognize, means ""new life"" in Urdu and Hindi, is to rejuvenate the lives of millions of low income families by providing them with affordable access to catastrophic health care. Indeed it is the emerging world's first HMO for the urban working poor. Why should we do this as Indians and Pakistanis? We are but two threads cut from the same cloth. And if our fates are intertwined, then we believe that it is good karma, it is good fortune. And for many of us, our fortunes do indeed lie at the bottom of the pyramid. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Fantastic. Just stay up here. That was fantastic. I found that really moving. You know, we fought hard to get at least a small Pakistani contingent to come. It felt like it was really important. They went through a lot to get here. Would the Pakistanis please just stand up please? I just really wanted to acknowledge you. (Applause) Thank you so much."	致敬(梵文)。致敬 (阿拉伯語)。致敬(希伯來 語)。 致敬(旁遮普語)。巴基斯坦人民向 你們致敬。人們常說我們害怕未知的東西。巴基斯坦也是這樣。不管是過去還是現在，它都使很多西方人憂心忡忡，假若僅從社會動盪的角度去看，就更是如此。但巴基斯坦尚有很多不為人知的地方。 接下來的照片，是巴基斯坦人自己拍攝的。他們都是年輕有為的攝影家。他們致力於將巴基斯坦的另一面展現於世；他們致力於展現普通民眾的心靈。這些是他們與我們分享的內容。 我叫 Abdul Khan來自Peshawar。我希望你能看到的不僅僅是我的塔利班式大鬍子，還有我的富足與豐富多彩[的生活]，以及我的認知、抱負與夢想，如同我賣的各式花色的書包一樣。 我叫 Meher，這位是我的朋友Irim，長大後我想當獸醫，這樣我就能照顧流浪貓和流浪狗了，街上、村裏可多流浪的狗和貓了。我住在 Gilgit，位於巴基斯坦北部。 我叫 Kailash，我喜歡豐富多彩的生活就如透過五光十色的玻璃[看世界]。夫人，您想來個橙色的手鐲嗎上面有粉色圓點的那種。 我叫 Zamin。是個國內流亡的難民，我來自 Swat。你從籬笆的另 一面的看到我了嗎？我應存於此世界嗎？ 我叫 Iman，是個模特，是個來自 Lahore的新秀。你看到我簡約的遮住全身的衣服了嗎？你能看到面紗後的我嗎？你能看穿我麼？ 我叫 Ahmed，是個阿富汗難民，我來自 Khyber。我來自一個充滿黑暗的地方。我想照亮世界。 我叫 Papusay。我的鼓隨心振動。假若宗教是大眾的鴉片，音樂就是我唯一的大麻。 大浪托起一艘艘船。印度的浪花預示著經濟的騰飛。它將托起4億印度人進入殷實的中產階級。但還有6.5億印度人，巴基斯坦人、斯里蘭卡人、孟加拉人和尼泊爾人尚掙扎於貧困的穀底。 作為印巴人，你與我都應把克服困難，從而來慶祝我們文化的多樣性。提升我們共同的人性。我們共同的Naya Jeevan，正如在座的很多位都知道，Naya Jeevan在烏爾都語和印度語中是新生活的意思，讓我們重振低收入家庭的生活向他們提供資源提供醫保。的確，這是發展中國家第一個針對城市低收入人群的健康維護組織。 為何我們要在行動時劃清國界呢？我們骨肉相連。命運息息相關這是我們的榮幸。對於我們中的許多人來說，財富的確埋藏在金字塔底。 謝謝。（鼓掌） Chris Anderson：太棒了，先別走。棒極了。真的很感人。要知道，為了讓巴基斯坦的代表團到場我們盡了一切努力。這真的很重要。他們千辛萬苦才來到這兒。請在座的巴基斯坦人站起來。我想向你們致敬。（鼓掌）非常感謝。
