Talk	en	zh-tw
aspen_baker_a_better_way_to_talk_about_abortion	"It was the middle of summer and well past closing time in the downtown Berkeley bar where my friend Polly and I worked together as bartenders. Usually at the end of our shift we had a drink — but not that night. ""I'm pregnant. Not sure what I'm going to do yet,"" I told Polly. Without hesitation, she replied, ""I've had an abortion."" Before Polly, no one had ever told me that she'd had an abortion. I'd graduated from college just a few months earlier and I was in a new relationship when I found out that I was pregnant. When I thought about my choices, I honestly did not know how to decide, what criteria I should use. How would I know what the right decision was? I worried that I would regret  an abortion later. Coming of age on the beaches of Southern California, I grew up in the middle of  our nation's abortion wars. I was born in a trailer on the third anniversary of Roe vs. Wade. Our community was surfing Christians. We cared about God, the less fortunate, and the ocean. Everyone was pro-life. As a kid, the idea of abortion made me so sad that I knew if I ever got pregnant I could never have one. And then I did. It was a step towards the unknown. But Polly had given me a very special gift: the knowledge that I wasn't alone and the realization that abortion was something that we can talk about. Abortion is common. According to the Guttmacher Institute, one in three women in America will have an abortion in their lifetime. But for the last few decades, the dialogue around abortion in the United States has left little room for anything beyond  pro-life and pro-choice. It's political and polarizing. But as much as abortion is hotly debated, it's still rare for us, whether as fellow women or even just as fellow people, to talk with one another about the abortions that we have. There is a gap. Between what happens in politics and what happens in real life, and in that gap, a battlefield mentality. An ""are you with us  or against us?"" stance takes root. This isn't just about abortion. There are so many important issues  that we can't talk about. And so finding ways to shift the conflict to a place of conversation is the work of my life. There are two main ways to get started. One way is to listen closely. And the other way is to share stories. So, 15 years ago, I cofounded an organization called Exhale to start listening to people  who have had abortions. The first thing we did was create  a talk-line, where women and men could call to get emotional support. Free of judgment and politics, believe it or not, nothing like our sevice had ever existed. We needed a new framework that could  hold all the experiences that we were hearing on our talk-line. The feminist who regrets her abortion. The Catholic who is grateful for hers. The personal experiences that weren't  fitting neatly into one box or the other. We didn't think it was right  to ask women to pick a side. We wanted to show them that the whole world was on their side, as they were going through this deeply personal experience. So we invented ""pro-voice."" Beyond abortion, pro-voice works on hard issues that we've struggled with globally for years, issues like immigration, religious tolerance, violence against women. It also works on deeply personal topics  that might only matter to you and your immediate family and friends. They have a terminal illness,  their mother just died, they have a child with special needs and they can't talk about it. Listening and storytelling are the hallmarks of pro-voice practice. Listening and storytelling. That sounds pretty nice. Sounds maybe, easy? We could all do that. It's not easy. It's very hard. Pro-voice is hard because we are talking about things everyone's fighting about or the things that no one  wants to talk about. I wish I could tell you that when you  decide to be pro-voice, that you'll find beautiful moments of breakthrough  and gardens full of flowers, where listening and storytelling creates wonderful ""a-ha"" moments. I wish I could tell you that there would be a feminist welcoming party for you, or that there's a long-lost sisterhood of people who are just ready to have your back when you get slammed. But it can be vulnerable and exhausting  to tell our own stories when it feels like nobody cares. And if we truly listen to one another, we will hear things that demand that we shift our own perceptions. There is no perfect time and there is no perfect place to start a difficult conversation. There's never a time when everyone will be on the same page, share the same lens, or know the same history. So, let's talk about listening and how to be a good listener. There's lots of ways to be a good listener and I'm going to give you just a couple. One is to ask open-ended questions. You can ask yourself or someone  that you know, ""How are you feeling?"" ""What was that like?"" ""What do you hope for, now?"" Another way to be a good listener  is to use reflective language. If someone is talking about their own personal experience, use the words that they use. If someone is talking about an abortion and they say the word ""baby,"" you can say ""baby."" If they say ""fetus,"" you can say ""fetus."" If someone describes themselves as gender queer to you, you can say ""gender queer."" If someone kind of looks like a he, but they say they're a she — it's cool. Call that person a she. When we reflect the language of the person who is sharing their own story, we are conveying that we are interested in understanding who they are and what they're going through. The same way that we hope people are  interested in knowing us. So, I'll never forget being in one  of the Exhale counselor meetings, listening to a volunteer talk about how she was getting a lot of calls from Christian women who  were talking about God. Now, some of our volunteers are religious, but this particular one was not. At first, it felt a little weird for her  to talk to callers about God. So, she decided to get comfortable. And she stood in front of her mirror  at home, and she said the word ""God."" ""God."" ""God."" ""God."" ""God."" ""God."" ""God."" Over and over and over again until the word no longer felt strange coming out her mouth. Saying the word God did not turn this  volunteer into a Christian, but it did make her a much  better listener of Christian women. So, another way to be pro-voice is to share stories, and one risk that you take on, when you share your story with someone else, is that given the same set of circumstances as you they might actually make a different decision. For example, if you're telling a story  about your abortion, realize that she might have had the baby. She might have placed for adoption. She might have told her parents  and her partner — or not. She might have felt relief and confidence, even though you felt sad and lost. This is okay. Empathy gets created the moment we imagine ourselves in someone else's shoes. It doesn't mean we all have  to end up in the same place. It's not agreement, it's not sameness that pro-voice is after. It creates a culture and a society that  values what make us special and unique. It values what makes us human, our flaws and our imperfections. And this way of thinking allows us to see our differences with respect, instead of fear. And it generates the empathy that we need to overcome all the ways that we try to hurt one another. Stigma, shame, prejudice,  discrimination, oppression. Pro-voice is contagious, and the more it's practiced the more it spreads. So, last year I was pregnant again. This time I was looking forward  to the birth of my son. And while pregnant, I had never been asked how I was feeling so much in all my life. (Laughter) And however I replied, whether I was feeling wonderful and excited or scared and totally freaked out, there was always someone there giving me a ""been there"" response. It was awesome. It was a welcome, yet dramatic departure from what I experience when I talk about my mixed feelings of my abortion. Pro-voice is about the real stories of real people making an impact on the way abortion and so many other politicized and stigmatized issues are understood and discussed. From sexuality and mental health to poverty and incarceration. Far beyond definition as single right or wrong decisions, our experiences can exist on a spectrum. Pro-voice focuses that conversation on human experience and it makes support and respect possible for all. Thank you. (Applause)"	那是仲夏的某日，早過了打烊的時間，在柏克萊鬧區一間小酒吧裡，我和我的朋友波莉在裡面當酒保。通常我們會在下班後小酌一番，但那晚沒有。「我懷孕了。我還不知道該怎麼辦。」我這樣告訴波莉。沒有一絲猶豫，她回答，「我以前墮過胎。」波莉是第一個告訴我曾有過墮胎經驗的人。我在那之前幾個月才從大學畢業，剛交了個新男朋友，卻發現我懷孕了。我考慮著各式選項，真的不知道該如何抉擇，該用什麼標準。我怎麼知道哪個才是正確的決定？我擔心我會後悔墮胎。成年前在南加海灘悠遊的我，在這個國家的墮胎權之爭中長大。「羅訴韋德案」判決後三週年，我在一輛小拖車中出生。我們的社區是愛衝浪的基督徒。我們的心中掛念著神、困乏的人，和海洋。每個人都反對墮胎。孩童時，墮胎這個概念讓我非常難過，我知道如果我懷孕了，我一定不要墮胎。結果我做了。路途茫茫的一步。但是波莉給了我一項非常特別的禮物：我知道我不是獨自受苦，我也領悟到原來墮胎是可以拿出來談的。墮胎很普遍。據古馬社機構所說，每三位美國婦女就有一位會在一生中墮胎。但是在美國，過去幾十年對墮胎的對話侷限在生命權對選擇權的討論。很政治化及兩極化。 即使墮胎的爭論如火如荼，對我們而言，不管是同為女性，或僅是同為人，我們仍然很難討論彼此墮胎的經驗。有一道鴻溝，介在政治議題與現實生活間。而在那道鴻溝中，存著殺戮戰場的心態。「非友即敵」的立場根深蒂固。這不僅限於墮胎議題。還有很多重要的問題我們都不能說。所以想辦法將衝突改變為對話，是我畢生的工作。有兩個重要的方法可以著手。一個是仔細聆聽，另一個就是分享故事。15 年前，我與人共創一家名叫「舒氣」的組織，開始傾聽人們墮胎的心聲。首先我們成立一條輔導專線，不分男女都能打電話進來，在情緒上得到支持。這裡沒有論斷，也不談政治。信不信，像我們這樣的服務從不曾出現過。我們需要新的架構能包容我們在專線上聽到的所有經歷。女性主義者後悔墮了胎；天主教徒慶幸墮了胎。個人的經歷無法套進現有的框框。我們無法認同要求婦女選邊站。我們想讓她們知道在她們度過這段深切的個人經歷時，整個世界都站在她們那邊。所以我們創立了「優聲權」。 除了墮胎，優聲權還處理全球歷時多年的棘手問題，像是移民、宗教寬容、對婦女施暴等問題。它也處理切身的個人問題，只有你自己、你的直系親屬及摯友才會關心。有人得了絕症，有人的母親剛去世，有人的孩子需要特殊教育卻無法拿出來談。聽故事與講故事是優聲權的兩大特點。聽故事與講故事，聽起來很美好。聽起來好像很容易？我們都會做。這並不容易，而且非常難。優聲權很難，因為我們在談的，是每個人都在爭論或沒有人想提出來談的事。我真希望我能告訴你，當你決定要「優聲」，你會發現突破的美麗瞬間，園子開滿了鮮花，在那裡，講故事與說故事能產生美妙的頓悟時刻。我真希望我能告訴你會有一個女權歡迎會在等著你，或是你久違的姊妹淘在你被徹底擊敗時張手等你回來。但是訴說自己的故事卻讓你身心俱疲，尤其在你覺得沒人在乎的時候。如果我們真的傾聽彼此，我們會聽到需要我們設身處地的故事。永遠沒有完美的時刻與完美的地點來展開艱難的對話。永遠不會有什麼時刻，大家想法一致、看法一致，或經歷相同的過去。所以，就來談談傾聽的技巧，怎樣變成好的聆聽者。有很多方法能成為好的聆聽者，我在這裡跟大家說幾個。其中一個就是要問開放式問題。你能問自己或你認識的人：「你覺得如何？」「那像什麼？」「你現在希望怎麼辦？」另一個成為好的聆聽者的方法是用反映語法。如果有人在談他們的個人經驗，你要用他們用的字。如果有人在談墮胎時用了「寶貝」這個字，你也可以用「寶貝」。如果他們說「胎兒」，你也可以說「胎兒」。如果他們對你描述自己是性別酷兒，你也可以說性別酷兒。如果某人看起來像是男的，可是他說他自己是女的，那也沒關係，就稱他是女性。當我們反映分享者的語言時，我們就傳達出我們想瞭解他們是誰，及他們經歷的一切。就跟我們希望別人也會想瞭解我們一樣。所以，我永遠都忘不了在某次舒氣輔導員會議上，聽一位志工說她如何面對許多女基督徒在電話上談到神的故事。我們有些志工是信教的，但這位不是。一開始，她覺得跟來電者談神有點怪。所以她決定要讓自己自在一點。她在家裡站在鏡子前說「神」。「神」。「神」。「神」。「神」。「神」。「神」。一次又一次的說，直到從她口中說出這個字不再感到奇怪。說神這個字沒有讓這位志工成為基督徒，但這的確讓她在面對基督徒婦女時成為更好的聆聽者。那麼，另一個成為「優聲」的方法是分享故事。你跟別人分享自己的故事時，你要承擔的風險是，就算聽者跟你的處境相同，他們也可能做出不同的決定。舉例來說，你說了自己墮胎的故事，卻發現她可能留下孩子。她也可能送人領養。她可能告訴她的父母或同居人，也可能沒說。她可能覺得鬆了口氣、很有把握，而你卻覺得悲慘失落。這沒關係。同理心在我們設身處地的瞬間就產生了。這不代表我們會有一樣的結局。優聲權追求的並非同意、並非一致。它創造一種文化、一個社會，珍視讓我們獨特的差異。它珍視我們之所以為人的一切，我們的缺陷和我們的不完美。這種思維讓我們尊重彼此的不同，而不是恐懼。而如此就產生我們所需的同理心，以克服試圖傷害彼此的一切。汙名、恥辱、偏見、歧視、壓迫。優聲權具感染力，練習愈多，傳染愈快。去年我又懷孕了。這次我很期待我兒子出生。懷孕時，我接受到的關心真是一生中最多的階段。（笑聲）無論我如何回答，是覺得好奇妙、好興奮，還是很害怕、完全嚇壞了，總有人對我說：「我也是過來人。」真棒。這是個令人愉快、戲劇性的再出發，揮別我五味雜陳的墮胎經驗。優聲權要的是用真人真事，衝擊大家對墮胎及其他被政治化、汙名化的議題所持的看法及爭論。從性取向、心理健康、貧窮到監禁都是。我們的經歷形形色色，遠遠超過二分法的定義。優聲權的重點是人類經歷的對話，並支持及尊重所有可能。謝謝。（掌聲）
