Talk	en	zh-tw
auret_van_heerden_making_global_labor_fair	"This cell phone started its trajectory in an artisanal mine in the Eastern Congo. It's mined by armed gangs using slaves, child slaves, what the U.N. Security Council calls ""blood minerals,"" then traveled into some components and ended up in a factory in Shinjin in China. That factory — over a dozen people have committed suicide already this year. One man died after working a 36-hour shift. We all love chocolate. We buy it for our kids. Eighty percent of the cocoa comes from Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana and it's harvested by children. Cote d'Ivoire, we have a huge problem of child slaves. Children have been trafficked from other conflict zones to come and work on the coffee plantations. Heparin — a blood thinner, a pharmaceutical product — starts out in artisanal workshops like this in China, because the active ingredient comes from pigs' intestines. Your diamond — you've all heard, probably seen the movie ""Blood Diamond."" This is a mine in Zimbabwe right now. Cotton: Uzbekistan is the second biggest exporter of cotton on Earth. Every year when it comes to the cotton harvest, the government shuts down the schools, puts the kids in buses, buses them to the cotton fields to spend three weeks harvesting the cotton. It's forced child labor on an institutional scale. And all of those products probably end their lives in a dump like this one in Manila. These places, these origins, represent governance gaps. That's the politest description I have for them. These are the dark pools where global supply chains begin — the global supply chains, which bring us our favorite brand name products. Some of these governance gaps are run by rogue states. Some of them are not states anymore at all. They're failed states. Some of them are just countries who believe that deregulation or no regulation is the best way to attract investment, promote trade. Either way, they present us with a huge moral and ethical dilemma. I know that none of us want to be accessories after the fact of a human rights abuse in a global supply chain. But right now, most of the companies involved in these supply chains don't have any way of assuring us that nobody had to mortgage their future, nobody had to sacrifice their rights to bring us our favorite brand name product. Now, I didn't come here to depress you about the state of the global supply chain. We need a reality check. We need to recognize just how serious a deficit of rights we have. This is an independent republic, probably a failed state. It's definitely not a democratic state. And right now, that independent republic of the supply chain is not being governed in a way that would satisfy us, that we can engage in ethical trade or ethical consumption. Now, that's not a new story. You've seen the documentaries of sweatshops making garments all over the world, even in developed countries. You want to see the classic sweatshop, meet me at Madison Square Garden, I'll take you down the street, and I'll show you a Chinese sweatshop. But take the example of heparin. It's a pharmaceutical product. You expect that the supply chain that gets it to the hospital, probably squeaky clean. The problem is that the active ingredient in there — as I mentioned earlier — comes from pigs. The main American manufacturer of that active ingredient decided a few years ago to relocate to China because it's the world's biggest supplier of pigs. And their factory in China — which probably is pretty clean — is getting all of the ingredients from backyard abattoirs, where families slaughter pigs and extract the ingredient. So a couple of years ago, we had a scandal which killed about 80 people around the world, because of contaminants that crept into the heparin supply chain. Worse, some of the suppliers realized that they could substitute a product which mimicked heparin in tests. This substitute cost nine dollars a pound, whereas real heparin, the real ingredient, cost 900 dollars a pound. A no-brainer. The problem was that it killed more people. And so you're asking yourself, ""How come the U.S. Food and Drug Administration allowed this to happen? How did the Chinese State Agency for Food and Drugs allow this to happen?"" And the answer is quite simple: the Chinese define these facilities as chemical facilities, not pharmaceutical facilities, so they don't audit them. And the USFDA has a jurisdictional problem. This is offshore. They actually do conduct a few investigations overseas — about a dozen a year — maybe 20 in a good year. There are 500 of these facilities producing active ingredients in China alone. In fact, about 80 percent of the active ingredients in medicines now come from offshore, particularly China and India, and we don't have a governance system. We don't have a regulatory system able to ensure that that production is safe. We don't have a system to ensure that human rights, basic dignity, are ensured. So at a national level — and we work in about 60 different countries — at a national level we've got a serious breakdown in the ability of governments to regulate production on their own soil. And the real problem with the global supply chain is that it's supranational. So governments who are failing, who are dropping the ball at a national level, have even less ability to get their arms around the problem at an international level. And you can just look at the headlines. Take Copenhagen last year — complete failure of governments to do the right thing in the face of an international challenge. Take the G20 meeting a couple of weeks ago — stepped back from its commitments of just a few months ago. You can take any one of the major global challenges we've discussed this week and ask yourself, where is the leadership from governments to step up and come up with solutions, responses, to those international problems? And the simple answer is they can't. They're national. Their voters are local. They have parochial interests. They can't subordinate those interests to the greater global public good. So, if we're going to ensure the delivery of the key public goods at an international level — in this case, in the global supply chain — we have to come up with a different mechanism. We need a different machine. Fortunately, we have some examples. In the 1990s, there were a whole series of scandals concerning the production of brand name goods in the U.S. — child labor, forced labor, serious health and safety abuses. And eventually President Clinton, in 1996, convened a meeting at the White House, invited industry, human rights NGOs, trade unions, the Department of Labor, got them all in a room and said, ""Look, I don't want globalization to be a race to the bottom. I don't know how to prevent that, but I'm at least going to use my good offices to get you folks together to come up with a response."" So they formed a White House task force, and they spent about three years arguing about who takes how much responsibility in the global supply chain. Companies didn't feel it was their responsibility. They don't own those facilities. They don't employ those workers. They're not legally liable. Everybody else at the table said, ""Folks, that doesn't cut it. You have a custodial duty, a duty of care, to make sure that that product gets from wherever to the store in a way that allows us to consume it, without fear of our safety, or without having to sacrifice our conscience to consume that product."" So they agreed, ""Okay, what we'll do is we agree on a common set of standards, code of conduct. We'll apply that throughout our global supply chain regardless of ownership or control. We'll make it part of the contract."" And that was a stroke of absolute genius, because what they did was they harnessed the power of the contract, private power, to deliver public goods. And let's face it, the contract from a major multinational brand to a supplier in India or China has much more persuasive value than the local labor law, the local environmental regulations, the local human rights standards. Those factories will probably never see an inspector. If the inspector did come along, it would be amazing if they were able to resist the bribe. Even if they did their jobs, and they cited those facilities for their violations, the fine would be derisory. But you lose that contract for a major brand name, that's the difference between staying in business or going bankrupt. That makes a difference. So what we've been able to do is we've been able to harness the power and the influence of the only truly transnational institution in the global supply chain, that of the multinational company, and get them to do the right thing, get them to use that power for good, to deliver the key public goods. Now of course, this doesn't come naturally to multinational companies. They weren't set up to do this. They're set up to make money. But they are extremely efficient organizations. They have resources, and if we can add the will, the commitment, they know how to deliver that product. Now, getting there is not easy. Those supply chains I put up on the screen earlier, they're not there. You need a safe space. You need a place where people can come together, sit down without fear of judgment, without recrimination, to actually face the problem, agree on the problem and come up with solutions. We can do it. The technical solutions are there. The problem is the lack of trust, the lack of confidence, the lack of partnership between NGOs, campaign groups, civil society organizations and multinational companies. If we can put those two together in a safe space, get them to work together, we can deliver public goods right now, or in extremely short supply. This is a radical proposition, and it's crazy to think that if you're a 15-year-old Bangladeshi girl leaving your rural village to go and work in a factory in Dhaka — 22, 23, 24 dollars a month — your best chance of enjoying rights at work is if that factory is producing for a brand name company which has got a code of conduct and made that code of conduct part of the contract. It's crazy. Multinationals are protecting human rights. I know there's going to be disbelief. You'll say, ""How can we trust them?"" Well, we don't. It's the old arms control phrase: ""Trust, but verify."" So we audit. We take their supply chain, we take all the factory names, we do a random sample, we send inspectors on an unannounced basis to inspect those facilities, and then we publish the results. Transparency is absolutely critical to this. You can call yourself responsible, but responsibility without accountability often doesn't work. So what we're doing is, we're not only enlisting the multinationals, we're giving them the tools to deliver this public good — respect for human rights — and we're checking. You don't need to believe me. You shouldn't believe me. Go to the website. Look at the audit results. Ask yourself, is this company behaving in a socially responsible way? Can I buy that product without compromising my ethics? That's the way the system works. I hate the idea that governments are not protecting human rights around the world. I hate the idea that governments have dropped this ball and I can't get used to the idea that somehow we can't get them to do their jobs. I've been at this for 30 years, and in that time I've seen the ability, the commitment, the will of government to do this decline, and I don't see them making a comeback right now. So we started out thinking this was a stopgap measure. We're now thinking that, in fact, this is probably the start of a new way of regulating and addressing international challenges. Call it network governance. Call it what you will. The private actors, companies and NGOs, are going to have to get together to face the major challenges we are going to face. Just look at pandemics — swine flu, bird flu, H1N1. Look at the health systems in so many countries. Do they have the resources to face up to a serious pandemic? No. Could the private sector and NGOs get together and marshal a response? Absolutely. What they lack is that safe space to come together, agree and move to action. That's what we're trying to provide. I know as well that this often seems like an overwhelming level of responsibility for people to assume. ""You want me to deliver human rights throughout my global supply chain. There are thousands of suppliers in there."" It seems too daunting, too dangerous, for any company to take on. But there are companies. We have 4,000 companies who are members. Some of them are very, very large companies. The sporting goods industry, in particular, stepped up to the plate and have done it. The example, the role model, is there. And whenever we discuss one of these problems that we have to address — child labor in cottonseed farms in India — this year we will monitor 50,000 cottonseed farms in India. It seems overwhelming. The numbers just make you want to zone out. But we break it down to some basic realities. And human rights comes down to a very simple proposition: can I give this person their dignity back? Poor people, people whose human rights have been violated — the crux of that is the loss of dignity, the lack of dignity. It starts with just giving people back their dignity. I was sitting in a slum outside Gurgaon just next to Delhi, one of the flashiest, brightest new cities popping up in India right now, and I was talking to workers who worked in garment sweatshops down the road, and I asked them what message they would like me to take to the brands. They didn't say money. They said, ""The people who employ us treat us like we are less than human, like we don't exist. Please ask them to treat us like human beings."" That's my simple understanding of human rights. That's my simple proposition to you, my simple plea to every decision-maker in this room, everybody out there. We can all make a decision to come together and pick up the balls and run with the balls that governments have dropped. If we don't do it, we're abandoning hope, we're abandoning our essential humanity, and I know that's not a place we want to be, and we don't have to be there. So I appeal to you. Join us, come into that safe space, and let's start to make this happen. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"這隻手機的原產地是在剛果東部的礦場這個礦產有武裝部隊利用兒童奴隸開採這也就是聯合國安理會所說的""血礦產""然後這些礦產被加工成一些原件最後到中國深圳的一間工廠這間工廠在今年已經有超過十二人自殺有個人在持續工作三十六小時後死亡我們都愛巧克力我們都買巧克力給我們的孩子百分之八十的可可來自於象牙海岸和迦納然後由孩子們來收成在象牙海岸，兒童奴隸一直是很嚴重的問題而小孩都是從其他動亂區販運而來的他們被安排到咖啡園工作肝磷脂-血液稀釋劑是一種藥品來自於手工廠就像這個在中國的手工廠，因為這個藥的活性成分是從豬腸子提取的你們的鑽石，你們都聽過也可能看過""血鑽石""這部電影這是一個在辛巴威的礦場現在棉花的第二大產地是烏茲別克烏茲別克是全世界的第二大棉花出口國每年到了棉花收成的時候政府就下令停課將學童一車車載到棉花田讓他們停課三星期來收成棉花這是強迫的童工在體制下全面進行而這些棉花也許會奪走孩子們的生命看看這個在馬尼拉的垃圾場 這些地方，這些原產地代表了全球治理上的落差這是我最委婉的說法對這些問題最客氣的講法全球供應鏈就是從這些暗池開始而這個全球供應鏈創造了我們最喜愛的名牌商品這些治理上的缺失是無賴政權造成的有些甚至已經不是國家了而是失敗的政權有些國家相信自由化或完全放任是吸引投資最好的方式是促進貿易最好的方法總之,他們呈現給我們的是一個嚴重的倫理道德上的困境在全球供應鏈下有著人權迫害的事實背後我知道沒有一個國家想成為別國的附屬品但是現在大部分涉及這些供應鏈的公司沒有其他辦法向我們保證:在製造我們喜愛的名牌產品過程中不會有人賭上自己的未來也不會犧牲自己的權利 現在我站在這裡不是要讓你們對全球供應鏈感到失望而是要你們正視這些事實我們需要了解欠缺這個權利的嚴重性這是一個獨立的共和國也可能是「失敗國家」很顯然也不是個民主的國家而現在這些獨立共和國的供應鏈不受管制導致我們無法有良心地去消費來滿足我們的需求這已經眾所皆知了你們已經看過全世界製造成衣的血汗工廠的紀錄片如果你想看典型的血汗工廠請來麥迪遜花園廣場與我相見我會帶你走遍整條街並參觀中國血汗工廠 以肝磷脂為例,是一種藥品你期望它在供應鏈中不受汙染地運送到醫院但問題是我稍早提及肝磷脂所具有的活性成分來自於豬腸子主要擁有這活性成分的美國製造商早在多年前就進駐中國因為中國是全球最大的豬隻供應國雖然他們在中國的工廠或許很乾淨可是獲取的材料都是來自於家庭式的屠宰場，他們在自家宰殺豬隻並從中提取成分所以多年以前，有一個負面新聞是關於受污染的肝磷脂因進入全球供應鏈中而導致80人死亡更糟的是，有些供應商意識到他們可用類似肝磷脂的產品作為替代這替代品一磅才九塊美金，但真正的肝磷脂一磅需花九百塊美金毫無疑問地,這會害更多人葬送性命 所以請捫心自問:美國聯邦食品藥物管理局為何會容許這件事發生呢?中國政府的食品藥物部門為何會允許這件事發生呢?這答案相當簡單:中國定義這些工廠為化學工廠,而不是製藥工廠所以中國政府並沒有檢驗這些工廠又加上此事有管轄權的問題所以美國聯邦食品藥物管理局無法可管實際上美國聯邦食品藥物管理局也很少進行海外調查大約一年十二次，多則二十次在中國，有五百家工廠生產這些活性成分事實上，運用在藥品上的活性成分百分之八十都來自海外，特別是來自於中國和印度而我們沒有一個管理系統也沒有一個監督系統能確保這些生產過程是安全的我們沒有一個能使人權和基本尊嚴受到保障的系統 以國家層面來講我們機構在六十個不同國家中工作在他們的土地上，我們的政府對於管理生產方面有很大的漏洞而全球供應鏈真正的問題是沒有邊界的所以那些失敗的政府總是在推卸責任就國際水平來說他們根本沒有能力解決這些問題再來看看新聞頭版以去年在哥本哈根的聯合國氣候變遷會議來說在面對國際挑戰下政府為了做正確的事情而導致政府失靈退回到幾個禮拜前的G20高峰會來說你可以就任何一個我們這星期已討論過的全球主要的問題並捫心自問，當政府面對這國際問題需快速做出回應及想出辦法時，他們的領導能力在哪?簡單來說是，他們沒有能力；這是國家性問題，他們的選民是當地的他們有著地方性利益無法隸屬於更強大的全球公共利益 如果我們要確保國際水平上的公共利益在全球供應鏈下—我們必須想出不同的機制不同的機構所幸我們有一些例子在1990年代,有一連串關於美國製造名牌產品的負面新聞:被迫害的童工及勞工們受到嚴重的健康與安全的侵犯在1996年，柯林頓總統在白宮召開議會邀請有關人權及工業性的非政府組織、勞工工會把他們全部召集起來並說道「我不想要全球化成為底層下的競爭也並不知道要如何防止這種狀況，但至少我可以使用我的權力讓你們團結，想出一個解決之道。」所以他們成立了白宮專案小組花了三年的時間去爭論:誰需要在這全球供應鏈下負起責任這些公司並不覺得這是他們的責任，他們沒擁有這些工廠、沒雇用這些工人、他們沒有法律責任在座的各位都說:「流言，它不會自己停止。」你有監督與保護的責任來確保這個產品從儲存到商品上架到我們買賣它們的過程中不會危及我們的安全或者不必違背自己的道德良知來消費產品因此他們同意了,""好吧,我們將做的是在商品上運用一套標準的管理我們將在整個全球供應鏈上運用這套管理，無關於擁有權或控制權，我們都使它成為契約的一部分""這絕對是致命的一擊因為他們做的是產生合約的力量以私人的力量提供公共利益 舉它來說主要跨國品牌的合約對中國或印度的供應者來說比當地的勞工法.當地的環境法規、當地的人權標準，有更多的說服力那些工廠可能將不會見到調查員如果調查員來他們能抵制這個賄賂是很了不起的即使他們做了，並檢舉違法的設施，這罰金也微不足道但是這樣就失去了主要品牌的合約這會使企業面對兩種選擇:是要繼續經營這企業或是走向破產這就是差異所在所以我們能做的是促使這些跨國公司使用他們的權力與影響力去做對的事情也在全球供應鏈下利用這權力去生產主要的公共利益 當然，一般跨國公司不會一開始就抱持這個理念他們創辦公司並不是為了這個，而是為了賺錢他們是極高效能的組織且擁有資源，如果我們的意志和承諾夠強烈將使他們知道如何供給這產品現在，達到這目標並不簡單我稍早放的供應鏈投影片他們不包括在裡面你們需要一個安全的地方在那不用擔心輿論及批評能使人們聚在一起去真正的面對問題釐清問題點並想出解決方案我們能做到;並從科技面著手解決但問題在於非政府組織.競選組織．國內社會組織跨國公司之間缺乏互信也缺乏合作如果我們可以將這兩種組織免於輿論及互相批評，並互相合作那現在就可以供應公共產品反之，則短缺 這是一個極端的主張大膽狂妄的假設如果你是個十五歲的孟加拉女孩離開你的家鄉去達卡的一間工廠工作薪資一個月22.23.24塊如果工廠是擁有企業經營法規並將這些法規視為合約的一部分的大品牌公司那你就能享受這些工作權利這是非常瘋狂的跨國公司是很保障人權的我知道這難以置信你可能會問""我們如何相信他們?""是的,我們不相信傳統的武裝控制態度是:""相信，但要明辨真相""所以我們去審查他們的供應鏈、他們的工廠名稱我們隨機採樣派遣調查員突擊檢查這些工廠然後公佈結果透明化是絕對重要的你可為自己負責，但卻沒有當責去交出成果通常是行不通的所以我們現在所作的不只是召集跨國公司而已我們還提供工具給他們去生產公共產品並且我們會去查核他們是否尊重人權你不需要相信我，也不應該相信我去網站看審查結果並捫心自問:這家公司在行為上有負起該有的社會責任嗎?我是否能不顧自己的道德而買這家的產品嗎?這就是他們系統的工作方式 我厭惡在世界上不保護人權的那些政府我痛恨那些政府只會互相推卸責任也無法忍受政府遲遲不做好該有的職責我投入於此已經30年了在此期間，我已了解到政府對此的能力、允諾及意志已逐年下降，而我也沒看到他們現在有做出該有的實際應對所以我們開始思考這只是個暫時性的手法我們現在認為事實上這可能只是個規範國際間挑戰的新方法我們稱之為網絡治理,或看你們怎麼稱呼私部門、公司和非政府組織他們將聯合一起面對主要的挑戰看看各國的疾病肆虐豬流感、禽流感、H1N1病毒再來看看各國的醫療體系他們有足夠的資源來面對嚴重的疾病肆虐?不!私部門和非政府組織能否聯合起來並進行整頓?當然他們缺少的是一個安全的地方能讓大家聚集起來達成共識並採取行動那是我們試著達到的 我也知道這似乎是人們所認為責任的最大化你希望我經由全球供應鏈表達人權包括成千上萬的供應商對於任何公司來說這似乎太令人怯步.風險太高但有許多公司像是其中有4,000個公司是我們的成員有些是非常非常大的公司尤其是運動用品產業他們挺身而出並達到目標例子以及榜樣皆在此而且任何時候我們討論其中一個我們所提出的問題是有關於印度的棉花產業童工今年我們會監督50,000個印度的棉花工廠這似乎有點棘手因為這數字令人怯步但我們將它分為一些基本事實 而人權歸結為一個很簡單的議題我是否能還此人尊嚴?窮困的人們他們的人權常常被忽略此一癥結是尊嚴的喪失與缺乏因此我們著手於還給人們尊嚴我坐在一個古爾岡外的貧民窟-位於德里旁邊是一個現今印度中如雨後春筍般冒出耀眼，明亮的新城市之一而我跟這些在成衣血汗工廠裡工作的工人們談話時，我問他們什麼樣的訊息他們希望傳達給工廠他們並沒有提到錢他們說:「那些雇用我們的人，以非人性的方式對待我們，就像我們不存在一樣請要求他們以人性的方式對待我們。」這是我在人權上的基本認知這是我對於你們的簡單主張我對於在座各位以及任何在外的每個決策者的小小期望我們皆能決定聚在一起拾起責任，繼續承擔責任那些政府所拋棄的責任如果我們不做的話就代表我們放棄希望也放棄我們最原始的人性我知道這不是我們所想走到的地步而我們也不必處於這種地步所以我建議你們加入我們並讓它實現 非常感謝你們的聆聽 (掌聲)"
