Talk	en	zh-tw
aziz_abu_sarah_for_more_tolerance_we_need_more_tourism	"I'm a tourism entrepreneur and a peacebuilder, but this is not how I started. When I was seven years old, I remember watching television and seeing people throwing rocks, and thinking, this must be a fun thing to do. So I got out to the street and threw rocks, not realizing I was supposed to throw rocks at Israeli cars. Instead, I ended up stoning my neighbors' cars. (Laughter) They were not enthusiastic about my patriotism. This is my picture with my brother. This is me, the little one, and I know what you're thinking: ""You used to look cute, what the heck happened to you?"" But my brother, who is older than me, was arrested when he was 18, taken to prison on charges of throwing stones. He was beaten up when he refused to confess that he threw stones, and as a result, had internal injuries that caused his death soon after he was released from prison. I was angry, I was bitter, and all I wanted was revenge. But that changed when I was 18. I decided that I needed Hebrew to get a job, and going to study Hebrew in that classroom was the first time I ever met Jews who were not soldiers. And we connected over really small things, like the fact that I love country music, which is really strange for Palestinians. But it was then that I realized also that we have a wall of anger, of hatred and of ignorance that separates us. I decided that it doesn't matter what happens to me. What really matters is how I deal with it. And therefore, I decided to dedicate my life to bringing down the walls that separate people. I do so through many ways. Tourism is one of them, but also media and education, and you might be wondering, really, can tourism change things? Can it bring down walls? Yes. Tourism is the best sustainable way to bring down those walls and to create a sustainable way of connecting with each other and creating friendships. In 2009, I cofounded Mejdi Tours, a social enterprise that aims to connect people, with two Jewish friends, by the way, and what we'll do, the model we did, for example, in Jerusalem, we would have two tour guides, one Israeli and one Palestinian, guiding the trips together, telling history and narrative and archaeology and conflict from totally different perspectives. I remember running a trip together with a friend named Kobi — Jewish congregation from Chicago, the trip was in Jerusalem — and we took them to a refugee camp, a Palestinian refugee camp, and there we had this amazing food. By the way, this is my mother. She's cool. And that's the Palestinian food called maqluba. It means ""upside-down."" You cook it with rice and chicken, and you flip it upside-down. It's the best meal ever. And we'll eat together. Then we had a joint band, Israeli and Palestinian musicians, and we did some belly-dancing. If you don't know any, I'll teach you later. But when we left, both sides, they were crying because they did not want to leave. Three years later, those relationships still exist. Imagine with me if the one billion people who travel internationally  every year travel like this, not being taken in the bus from one side to another, from one hotel to another, taking pictures from the windows of their buses of people and cultures, but actually connecting with people. You know, I remember having a Muslim group from the U.K. going to the house of an Orthodox Jewish family, and having their first Friday night dinners, that Sabbath dinner, and eating together hamin, which is a Jewish food, a stew, just having the connection of realizing, after a while, that a hundred years ago, their families came out of the same place in Northern Africa. This is not a photo profile for your Facebook. This is not disaster tourism. This is the future of travel, and I invite you to join me to do that, to change your travel. We're doing it all over the world now, from Ireland to Iran to Turkey, and we see ourselves going everywhere to change the world. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是位旅遊業的業者兼和平建立者，但是這並不是我一開始就在做的，當我在7歲大的時候我記得看到電視有人在扔擲石頭，我就認為會這麼做這肯定是好玩的事，因此我走到街上丟擲石頭，卻不明白我應該是要往以色列的車子扔石頭，反而結果我是用石頭砸我鄰居的車！(笑聲)對我的愛國情操他們並不是太感動的。 這是我和我兄弟的照片，這是我就是比較小的這一位，而我也知道你正在想什麼啦，「你以前看起來很可愛呀，在你身上到底發生過什麼鳥事啊?」但是年紀比我大的兄弟，在18歲的時候就被逮捕了關進監獄裡，因為被控扔擲石頭，當他拒絕認罪是他扔的石塊他就受到毆打了，結果就發生內出血，從監獄獲釋後沒多久引發他的死亡， 我是氣憤、痛苦的，我一心一意想要做的就是報仇。 但是當我18歲的時候想法變了，我想好我需要會希伯來文以獲得工作，然後就去學希伯來文，在那個教室裡我平生第一次見到不是軍人的猶太人，然後我們在真正的小事情上起了連結，就像是我喜愛鄉村音樂這個事實，這對巴基斯坦人來說真的很奇怪，不過也在那個時候我體認到有憤怒、憎惡、無知的屏障劃分開我們，我想好了發生在我身上的事情並重要，真正重要的是我如何來應對它，因此我決定要投入我的人生，來弄垮把大家劃分開的屏障。 我透過許多方法這麼做，旅遊業就是其中之一，也還有媒體和教育等等，你可能會好奇說真的嗎?旅遊業可以改變事情嗎?它能夠弄垮屏障嗎?沒錯！旅遊業就是最佳且持續的方法來拉低這些屏障，以及創造一個持續的方法連結彼此、產生友誼。 在2009年時我和別人共同成立了Mejdi旅行社，一個社會企業志在連結大眾，順帶一提是與兩個猶太朋友共同成立的，我們怎麼做呢?我們的模式是好比在耶路撒冷我們會有兩個導遊，一個以色列人和一個巴勒斯坦人一起導覽行程，從截然不同的觀點講述歷史、故事、考古學以及衝突，我記得和一個叫做寇比的朋友共同導覽一個行程，來自芝加哥的猶太教信徒，行程是在耶路撒冷裡，然後我們帶他們到一個難民營去，一個巴勒斯坦人的難民營；再那邊我們有著這種夢幻的食物，順帶一提這是我媽媽，她很了不起的，那個是巴勒斯坦人的食物叫做「maqluba」，它的意思是「上下翻轉過來」，你用米飯還有雞肉來做料理，然後你把它從上到下翻轉過來，它就是有史以來最棒的一餐了，我們會一起來吃，然後我們有一個聯合樂團，以色列還有巴勒斯坦的樂手，以及我們會跳些肚皮舞，如果你不會，待會我會教你，不過等到我們離開後雙方都在哭，就因為他們不想離開，三年後這些牽連仍然維持著， 跟我一起想像如果10億人，這些人每年做國際性旅行就像這樣，不是在被接到巴士後從某地到另一地、從某間旅館去到另一間，從他們巴士上的窗戶來拍照，拍人和拍文化背景，而是真的和人產生連結， 你知道嗎我記得有一群來自英國的穆斯林們，去到一間東正教猶太人家庭的房子，享用了他們第一次的星期五晚餐:「安息日晚餐」，一起吃著一種叫「hamin」的猶太燉菜，過沒多久就有了熟識的連結，就是100年以前他們的家族，是來自北非的同一個地方，這並不是給你的臉書用的照片簡介、不是悲劇旅遊；這是將來的旅行，而我邀請你加入我這麼做來改變你的旅程，我們如今正在全世界這樣做，從以色列、伊朗和土耳其，我們看著自己去到世界所有地方要來改變世界。 謝謝你們!
