Talk	en	zh-tw
bahia_shehab_a_thousand_times_no	"Two years ago, I was invited as an artist to participate in an exhibition commemorating 100 years of Islamic art in Europe. The curator had only one condition: I had to use the Arabic script for my artwork. Now, as an artist, a woman, an Arab, or a human being living in the world in 2010, I only had one thing to say: I wanted to say no. And in Arabic, to say ""no,"" we say ""no, and a thousand times no."" So I decided to look for a thousand different noes. on everything ever produced under Islamic or Arab patronage in the past 1,400 years, from Spain to the borders of China. I collected my findings in a book, placed them chronologically, stating the name, the patron, the medium and the date. Now, the book sat on a small shelf next to the installation, which stood three by seven meters, in Munich, Germany, in September of 2010. Now, in January, 2011, the revolution started, and life stopped for 18 days, and on the 12th of February, we naively celebrated on the streets of Cairo, believing that the revolution had succeeded. Nine months later I found myself spraying messages in Tahrir Square. The reason for this act was this image that I saw in my newsfeed. I did not feel that I could live in a city where people were being killed and thrown like garbage on the street. So I took one ""no"" off a tombstone from the Islamic Museum in Cairo, and I added a message to it: ""no to military rule."" And I started spraying that on the streets in Cairo. But that led to a series of no, coming out of the book like ammunition, and adding messages to them, and I started spraying them on the walls. So I'll be sharing some of these noes with you. No to a new Pharaoh, because whoever comes next should understand that we will never be ruled by another dictator. No to violence: Ramy Essam came to Tahrir on the second day of the revolution, and he sat there with this guitar, singing. One month after Mubarak stepped down, this was his reward. No to blinding heroes. Ahmed Harara lost his right eye on the 28th of January, and he lost his left eye on the 19th of November, by two different snipers. No to killing, in this case no to killing men of religion, because Sheikh Ahmed Adina Refaat was shot on December 16th, during a demonstration, leaving behind three orphans and a widow. No to burning books. The Institute of Egypt was burned on December 17th, a huge cultural loss. No to stripping the people, and the blue bra is to remind us of our shame as a nation when we allow a veiled woman to be stripped and beaten on the street, and the footprint reads, ""Long live a peaceful revolution,"" because we will never retaliate with violence. No to barrier walls. On February 5th, concrete roadblocks were set up in Cairo to protect the Ministry of Defense from protesters. Now, speaking of walls, I want to share with you the story of one wall in Cairo. A group of artists decided to paint a life-size tank on a wall. It's one to one. In front of this tank there's a man on a bicycle with a breadbasket on his head. To any passerby, there's no problem with this visual. After acts of violence, another artist came, painted blood, protesters being run over by the tank, demonstrators, and a message that read, ""Starting tomorrow, I wear the new face, the face of every martyr. I exist."" Authority comes, paints the wall white, leaves the tank and adds a message: ""Army and people, one hand. Egypt for Egyptians."" Another artist comes, paints the head of the military as a monster eating a maiden in a river of blood in front of the tank. Authority comes, paints the wall white, leaves the tank, leaves the suit, and throws a bucket of black paint just to hide the face of the monster. So I come with my stencils, and I spray them on the suit, on the tank, and on the whole wall, and this is how it stands today until further notice. (Laughter) Now, I want to leave you with a final no. I found Neruda scribbled on a piece of paper in a field hospital in Tahrir, and I decided to take a no of Mamluk Mausoleum in Cairo. The message reads, [Arabic] ""You can crush the flowers, but you can't delay spring."" Thank you. (Applause) (Applause) Thank you. Shukran. (Applause)"	"兩年前，我被邀請成為一個展覽的參展藝術家, 是紀念伊斯蘭藝術在歐洲的百年特展策展人只有一個要求：我的藝術作品必須使用阿拉伯文字作為一個藝術家，一個女子，一個阿拉伯人一個生活在2010年的世界的人我只有一件事要表達：我想要說 ""不""。在阿拉伯文裡，我們說""不"", 會說成""不, 再一千次的不"" 所以我決定收集一千個不同的 ""不""從各種曾經被製作出來的東西在過去1400年間累積的伊斯蘭或阿拉伯的贊助下從西班牙到中國邊境。我把所發現的收集在一本書裡按時間順序排列，標記名稱贊助人、 媒材和日期。現在，這本書就放在展覽品旁邊的一個小架子上這個展覽品有3米寬, 7米高，在德國慕尼黑從 2010 年 9 月開始展出 而在 2011 年 1 月的時候, 埃及革命開始了生活停止了 18 天到了2 月 12 日我們天真地在開羅的街道上慶祝以為民主革命已經成功了 過了九個月後, 我發現自己開始噴漆塗鴉, 散播訊息在自由廣場。之所以這樣做是因為我從訂閱的新聞來源看到了這張照片我覺得我無法生活在這樣的一個城市有老百姓被殺死並且被當成垃圾般的丟在街上所以我拿了一個 ""不"", 是來自一個墓碑上在開羅，伊斯蘭博物館的館藏, 我把它加上了一段文字向軍人執政說 ""不""之後我就開始在開羅街頭噴這個塗鴉訊息這件事帶出了一系列的 ""不"" 的塗鴉訊息，從那本書取材就像 ""不"" 的彈藥庫，然後加上文字訊息然後我就開始把這些塗鴉訊息噴到許多牆上在這裡分享一些塗鴉訊息給大家 向新法老說不，因為無論誰是下一個當政者應該明白我們將永遠不會接受獨裁者的統治。 向暴力說不： 拉米 埃薩姆來到自由廣場的時候是革命開始的第二天他拿著他的吉他, 坐在那裡唱歌。穆巴拉克下臺一個月後，這是他所得到的獎賞。 獻給瞎掉的英雄。艾哈邁德 哈拉失去了他的右眼在 1 月 28 日那天之後又在11 月 19 日, 失去了他的左眼是被兩個不同的狙擊手攻擊造成的. 向殺戮說不，在這裡是反對因宗教信仰而殺人當 謝赫 · 艾哈邁德 阿迪納 瑞法 被槍殺的時候那是在 12 月 16 日的示威活動裡他留下了三個孤兒和一個寡婦。 向焚書說 不。埃及研究所在12 月 17 日被縱火焚燒 ，這是一個巨大的文化損失。 向剝人衣服說不這間藍色胸衣是要提醒我們，這是我們國家的恥辱竟讓一個蒙面紗的女子被剝去衣服並被毆打, 就發生在大街上, 而這個腳印的文字寫著""和平革命萬歲""因為我們永遠不會以暴力的方式報復 向 路障牆 說不, 在 2月5日那天在開羅街頭出現了混凝土路障來保護國防部, 隔離示威者 既然講到了牆，我想與你分享另一個故事在開羅有一面牆。有一群藝術家決定畫一輛真實大小的坦克車在這牆上。它是一比一的大小在坦克車的正前面, 有一個人騎在自行車上頭上頂著麵包籃。對路過的任何人來說這個視覺藝術創作沒有什麼問題但在暴力行為發生後，另一個藝術家來了，畫上了血跡，抗議者正被坦克車輾過還有許多示威者和一條訊息，寫著""從明天開始，我會有張新的臉孔，在每個烈士的臉孔。你會看到我的存在。""然後當權者來了，把牆塗上白漆保留了坦克車, 並添加一段訊息：""軍隊和人民攜手, 建造埃及人的埃及""另一位藝術家來了，把軍事領袖的頭像畫成一個正在血河裡啃食少女的怪物就在坦克車前面之後當權者又來了，把牆塗上白漆, 保留了坦克車還有軍裝，並且潑了一桶黑漆把怪物的臉蓋住然後我帶著我的版具到這面牆, 把塗鴉噴上去噴在坦克車上和整面牆上，這就是目前那面牆的樣子應該會保持到有人發現為止（笑聲） 現在，我想要留給你最後一個 ""不""。我找到了 聶魯達 在一張紙上潦草地寫的文字在自由廣場的野戰醫院裡，我決定要採取的 ""不""是取材自 開羅的 馬穆魯克陵墓。訊息是這樣的：[阿拉伯文]""你可以壓碎花朵，但您無法延遲春天到來""。 謝謝。（掌聲）（掌聲）謝謝。舒克蘭。（掌聲）"
