Talk	en	zh-tw
barry_schwartz_on_our_loss_of_wisdom	"In his inaugural address, Barack Obama appealed to each of us to give our best as we try to extricate ourselves from this current financial crisis. But what did he appeal to? He did not, happily, follow in the footsteps of his predecessor, and tell us to just go shopping. Nor did he tell us, ""Trust us. Trust your country. Invest, invest, invest."" Instead, what he told us was to put aside childish things. And he appealed to virtue. Virtue is an old-fashioned word. It seems a little out of place in a cutting-edge environment like this one. And besides, some of you might be wondering, what the hell does it mean? Let me begin with an example. This is the job description of a hospital janitor that is scrolling up on the screen. And all of the items on it are unremarkable. They're the things you would expect: mop the floors, sweep them, empty the trash, restock the cabinets. It may be a little surprising how many things there are, but it's not surprising what they are. But the one thing I want you to notice about them is this: even though this is a very long list, there isn't a single thing on it that involves other human beings. Not one. The janitor's job could just as well be done in a mortuary as in a hospital. And yet, when some psychologists interviewed hospital janitors to get a sense of what they thought their jobs were like, they encountered Mike, who told them about how he stopped mopping the floor because Mr. Jones was out of his bed getting a little exercise, trying to build up his strength, walking slowly up and down the hall. And Charlene told them about how she ignored her supervisor's admonition and didn't vacuum the visitor's lounge because there were some family members who were there all day, every day who, at this moment, happened to be taking a nap. And then there was Luke, who washed the floor in a comatose young man's room twice because the man's father, who had been keeping a vigil for six months, didn't see Luke do it the first time, and his father was angry. And behavior like this from janitors, from technicians, from nurses and, if we're lucky now and then, from doctors, doesn't just make people feel a little better, it actually improves the quality of patient care and enables hospitals to run well. Now, not all janitors are like this, of course. But the ones who are think that these sorts of human interactions involving kindness, care and empathy are an essential part of the job. And yet their job description contains not one word about other human beings. These janitors have the moral will to do right by other people. And beyond this, they have the moral skill to figure out what ""doing right"" means. ""Practical wisdom,"" Aristotle told us, ""is the combination of moral will and moral skill."" A wise person knows when and how to make the exception to every rule, as the janitors knew when to ignore the job duties in the service of other objectives. A wise person knows how to improvise, as Luke did when he re-washed the floor. Real-world problems are often ambiguous and ill-defined and the context is always changing. A wise person is like a jazz musician — using the notes on the page, but dancing around them, inventing combinations that are appropriate for the situation and the people at hand. A wise person knows how to use these moral skills in the service of the right aims. To serve other people, not to manipulate other people. And finally, perhaps most important, a wise person is made, not born. Wisdom depends on experience, and not just any experience. You need the time to get to know the people that you're serving. You need permission to be allowed to improvise, try new things, occasionally to fail and to learn from your failures. And you need to be mentored by wise teachers. When you ask the janitors who behaved like the ones I described how hard it is to learn to do their job, they tell you that it takes lots of experience. And they don't mean it takes lots of experience to learn how to mop floors and empty trash cans. It takes lots of experience to learn how to care for people. At TED, brilliance is rampant. It's scary. The good news is you don't need to be brilliant to be wise. The bad news is that without wisdom, brilliance isn't enough. It's as likely to get you and other people into trouble as anything else. (Applause) Now, I hope that we all know this. There's a sense in which it's obvious, and yet, let me tell you a little story. It's a story about lemonade. A dad and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the ballpark. His son asked him for some lemonade and Dad went to the concession stand to buy it. All they had was Mike's Hard Lemonade, which was five percent alcohol. Dad, being an academic, had no idea that Mike's Hard Lemonade contained alcohol. So he brought it back. And the kid was drinking it, and a security guard spotted it, and called the police, who called an ambulance that rushed to the ballpark, whisked the kid to the hospital. The emergency room ascertained that the kid had no alcohol in his blood. And they were ready to let the kid go. But not so fast. The Wayne County Child Welfare Protection Agency said no. And the child was sent to a foster home for three days. At that point, can the child go home? Well, a judge said yes, but only if the dad leaves the house and checks into a motel. After two weeks, I'm happy to report, the family was reunited. But the welfare workers and the ambulance people and the judge all said the same thing: ""We hate to do it but we have to follow procedure."" How do things like this happen? Scott Simon, who told this story on NPR, said, ""Rules and procedures may be dumb, but they spare you from thinking."" And, to be fair, rules are often imposed because previous officials have been lax and they let a child go back to an abusive household. Fair enough. When things go wrong, as of course they do, we reach for two tools to try to fix them. One tool we reach for is rules. Better ones, more of them. The second tool we reach for is incentives. Better ones, more of them. What else, after all, is there? We can certainly see this in response to the current financial crisis. Regulate, regulate, regulate. Fix the incentives, fix the incentives, fix the incentives ... The truth is that neither rules nor incentives are enough to do the job. How could you even write a rule that got the janitors to do what they did? And would you pay them a bonus for being empathic? It's preposterous on its face. And what happens is that as we turn increasingly to rules, rules and incentives may make things better in the short run, but they create a downward spiral that makes them worse in the long run. Moral skill is chipped away by an over-reliance on rules that deprives us of the opportunity to improvise and learn from our improvisations. And moral will is undermined by an incessant appeal to incentives that destroy our desire to do the right thing. And without intending it, by appealing to rules and incentives, we are engaging in a war on wisdom. Let me just give you a few examples, first of rules and the war on moral skill. The lemonade story is one. Second, no doubt more familiar to you, is the nature of modern American education: scripted, lock-step curricula. Here's an example from Chicago kindergarten. Reading and enjoying literature and words that begin with 'B.' ""The Bath:"" Assemble students on a rug and give students a warning about the dangers of hot water. Say 75 items in this script to teach a 25-page picture book. All over Chicago in every kindergarten class in the city, every teacher is saying the same words in the same way on the same day. We know why these scripts are there. We don't trust the judgment of teachers enough to let them loose on their own. Scripts like these are insurance policies against disaster. And they prevent disaster. But what they assure in its place is mediocrity. (Applause) Don't get me wrong. We need rules! Jazz musicians need some notes — most of them need some notes on the page. We need more rules for the bankers, God knows. But too many rules prevent accomplished jazz musicians from improvising. And as a result, they lose their gifts, or worse, they stop playing altogether. Now, how about incentives? They seem cleverer. If you have one reason for doing something and I give you a second reason for doing the same thing, it seems only logical that two reasons are better than one and you're more likely to do it. Right? Well, not always. Sometimes two reasons to do the same thing seem to compete with one another instead of complimenting, and they make people less likely to do it. I'll just give you one example because time is racing. In Switzerland, back about 15 years ago, they were trying to decide where to site nuclear waste dumps. There was going to be a national referendum. Some psychologists went around and polled citizens who were very well informed. And they said, ""Would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?"" Astonishingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes. They knew it was dangerous. They thought it would reduce their property values. But it had to go somewhere and they had responsibilities as citizens. The psychologists asked other people a slightly different question. They said, ""If we paid you six weeks' salary every year would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?"" Two reasons. It's my responsibility and I'm getting paid. Instead of 50 percent saying yes, 25 percent said yes. What happens is that the second this introduction of incentive gets us so that instead of asking, ""What is my responsibility?"" all we ask is, ""What serves my interests?"" When incentives don't work, when CEOs ignore the long-term health of their companies in pursuit of short-term gains that will lead to massive bonuses, the response is always the same. Get smarter incentives. The truth is that there are no incentives that you can devise that are ever going to be smart enough. Any incentive system can be subverted by bad will. We need incentives. People have to make a living. But excessive reliance on incentives demoralizes professional activity in two senses of that word. It causes people who engage in that activity to lose morale and it causes the activity itself to lose morality. Barack Obama said, before he was inaugurated, ""We must ask not just 'Is it profitable?' but 'Is it right?'"" And when professions are demoralized, everyone in them becomes dependent on — addicted to — incentives and they stop asking ""Is it right?"" We see this in medicine. (""Although it's nothing serious, let's keep an eye on it to make sure it doesn't turn into a major lawsuit."") And we certainly see it in the world of business. (""In order to remain competitive in today's marketplace, I'm afraid we're going to have to replace you with a sleezeball."") (""I sold my soul for about a tenth of what the damn things are going for now."") It is obvious that this is not the way people want to do their work. So what can we do? A few sources of hope: we ought to try to re-moralize work. One way not to do it: teach more ethics courses. (Applause) There is no better way to show people that you're not serious than to tie up everything you have to say about ethics into a little package with a bow and consign it to the margins as an ethics course. What to do instead? One: Celebrate moral exemplars. Acknowledge, when you go to law school, that a little voice is whispering in your ear about Atticus Finch. No 10-year-old goes to law school to do mergers and acquisitions. People are inspired by moral heroes. But we learn that with sophistication comes the understanding that you can't acknowledge that you have moral heroes. Well, acknowledge them. Be proud that you have them. Celebrate them. And demand that the people who teach you acknowledge them and celebrate them too. That's one thing we can do. I don't know how many of you remember this: another moral hero, 15 years ago, Aaron Feuerstein, who was the head of Malden Mills in Massachusetts — they made Polartec — The factory burned down. 3,000 employees. He kept every one of them on the payroll. Why? Because it would have been a disaster for them and for the community if he had let them go. ""Maybe on paper our company is worth less to Wall Street, but I can tell you it's worth more. We're doing fine."" Just at this TED we heard talks from several moral heroes. Two were particularly inspiring to me. One was Ray Anderson, who turned — (Applause) — turned, you know, a part of the evil empire into a zero-footprint, or almost zero-footprint business. Why? Because it was the right thing to do. And a bonus he's discovering is he's actually going to make even more money. His employees are inspired by the effort. Why? Because there happy to be doing something that's the right thing to do. Yesterday we heard Willie Smits talk about re-foresting in Indonesia. (Applause) In many ways this is the perfect example. Because it took the will to do the right thing. God knows it took a huge amount of technical skill. I'm boggled at how much he and his associates needed to know in order to plot this out. But most important to make it work — and he emphasized this — is that it took knowing the people in the communities. Unless the people you're working with are behind you, this will fail. And there isn't a formula to tell you how to get the people behind you, because different people in different communities organize their lives in different ways. So there's a lot here at TED, and at other places, to celebrate. And you don't have to be a mega-hero. There are ordinary heroes. Ordinary heroes like the janitors who are worth celebrating too. As practitioners each and every one of us should strive to be ordinary, if not extraordinary heroes. As heads of organizations, we should strive to create environments that encourage and nurture both moral skill and moral will. Even the wisest and most well-meaning people will give up if they have to swim against the current in the organizations in which they work. If you run an organization, you should be sure that none of the jobs — none of the jobs — have job descriptions like the job descriptions of the janitors. Because the truth is that any work that you do that involves interaction with other people is moral work. And any moral work depends upon practical wisdom. And, perhaps most important, as teachers, we should strive to be the ordinary heroes, the moral exemplars, to the people we mentor. And there are a few things that we have to remember as teachers. One is that we are always teaching. Someone is always watching. The camera is always on. Bill Gates talked about the importance of education and, in particular, the model that KIPP was providing: ""Knowledge is power."" And he talked about a lot of the wonderful things that KIPP is doing to take inner-city kids and turn them in the direction of college. I want to focus on one particular thing KIPP is doing that Bill didn't mention. That is that they have come to the realization that the single most important thing kids need to learn is character. They need to learn to respect themselves. They need to learn to respect their schoolmates. They need to learn to respect their teachers. And, most important, they need to learn to respect learning. That's the principle objective. If you do that, the rest is just pretty much a coast downhill. And the teachers: the way you teach these things to the kids is by having the teachers and all the other staff embody it every minute of every day. Obama appealed to virtue. And I think he was right. And the virtue I think we need above all others is practical wisdom, because it's what allows other virtues — honesty, kindness, courage and so on — to be displayed at the right time and in the right way. He also appealed to hope. Right again. I think there is reason for hope. I think people want to be allowed to be virtuous. In many ways, it's what TED is all about. Wanting to do the right thing in the right way for the right reasons. This kind of wisdom is within the grasp of each and every one of us if only we start paying attention. Paying attention to what we do, to how we do it, and, perhaps most importantly, to the structure of the organizations within which we work, so as to make sure that it enables us and other people to develop wisdom rather than having it suppressed. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: You have to go and stand out here a sec. Barry Schwartz: Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"在他的就職演說上，歐巴馬(Barack Obama)呼籲我們每個人極盡所能的來擺脫當前的金融危機。但是甚麼是他所呼籲的呢?很慶幸的，他並沒有像前總統布希，就僅僅告訴大家多去購物而已。也沒有告訴我們 – “ 相信我們相信、你們的國家，投資、投資、再投資”。反而，他告訴我們將這種幼稚的事情放一邊。他向我們呼籲美德。美德是一個過氣的名詞。這樣的用詞在當前的環境似乎並不合適。而且也許你們有些人會這樣想，他到底在說甚麼? 讓我從一個例子開始說起。這是一家醫院裡一個清潔工的工作說明，在螢幕上滾動顯示著。這上面所寫的事情都相當的平凡。這些都是你可以想象到的事情：掃地、拖地、清理垃圾、補充櫃檯等等。這些事的數量多到讓人吃驚，但是這些事情卻是很平常。但是這邊有一件事是我要提出讓你們注意的：即使這些工作內容清單如此冗長，但是它確沒有一項是涉及他人的。一個都沒有。這個清潔工的工作在停屍間或醫院都可以進行。 然而，當一些心理學家去採訪這類的清潔人員時，想瞭解他們是如何看待自己的工作的，他們遇見了麥克，麥克告訴他們之所以他停止繼續拖地是因為瓊斯先生都會起床做做簡單的運動，他試著藉由運動來恢復體力，並且緩慢的在樓梯裡上下的走動。而查麗告訴他們說之所以她沒有聽從上司的忠告，用真空吸塵器來打掃訪客室是因為有一些家庭訪客成員會一整天都待在那邊，像現在就正有一些人在裡面休息。接下來他們訪問了路克，他對一個年輕的昏迷病人的房間地板洗刷了兩次，因為這個病人的父親足足在這邊待了六個月，路克第一次來打掃的時後這位父親並沒有看到，所以這位病人的父親生氣了。像這樣的行為，不管來自清潔人員、技術人員、護士有些幸運的時後，還會是醫生，不僅僅讓人們感受好一點，事實上也會改善病人照護的品質使醫院有著良好的運作機制。 當然在現在的社會上並不是每一個清潔人員都這樣子。但是能這樣子做的人都認為這些人與人之間的交流涉及到善良、關懷與體諒，這正是這份工作的核心部份。然而在這份工作的說明之中確未出現任何一個與他人有關的詞彙。這些清潔人員有良知的去正確的對待人們。除此之外，他們還有道德的技能去判斷甚麼才是正確的做法。 亞里斯多德告訴我們”實踐的智慧”，”就是道德意願與道德技能的結合。一個明智的人懂得甚麼時後以及如何去對應每一條規定而做出特殊的處理，就像是這些清潔人員知道在為他人服務時甚麼時後可以不用在意這項工作本身職能的要求一般的。一個明智的人知道如何隨機應變，就像是路克再去洗刷一次地板一樣。現實生活中的問題常常很曖昧且模糊不清的，而且問題的內容常常在改變。一個明智的人就像爵士樂手般的，看著歌譜演奏的時後並不完全遵從，會即興創作來與當時的環境與人們相互配合。一個明智的人知道如何使用道德技能為一個正確的目的而工作。為他人服務，而不是應付他人。最後，也許是會重要的，一個明智的人不是天生的，而是後天養成的。智慧依靠經驗，但也不完全所有的經驗都可依賴。你需要時間去瞭解你正在服務的人們。你需要得到許可去做一些臨時的決定，嘗試新的事物，偶爾會失敗，但你可以從中學習。同時你也需要一個明智的導師來指導你。 當你問我那些剛才我提到的清潔人員學會他們那樣子的工作有多難，他們會告訴你需要很多的經驗才能。那並不是說你需要在學習托地與倒垃圾花很多的時間來累積經驗，而是說你在關心照護人們是需要很多經驗的累積的。在TED中，有才華的人越來越多這有點可怕。好消息是想要成為明智的人你不需要聰明絕頂。壞消息是如果沒有智慧，僅僅有小聰明是不夠的。小聰明和一些其他的東西一樣會讓你惹上麻煩(掌聲) 現在我希望我們都能清楚的知道這一點。這個道理是很明顯的，我再跟你們說一個小故事。這是一個關於檸檬水的故事。一位父親與他七歲的兒子在球場觀看底特律老虎隊的比賽。兒子說他想喝檸檬水這位父親就到商店去買。但店裡只有一種Mike’s Hard檸檬水，裡面含有5%的酒精成份。身為學者的父親並不知道這裡面含有酒精成份。所以他就買了回來。孩子正在喝時被警衛發現了，警衛叫了警察，警察又叫了救護車，救護車迅速的到達棒球場把孩子帶去醫院。急診室後來確定孩子的血液中並沒有酒精他們才讓孩子離開。 可這事還沒完。韋恩縣兒童福利保護局並不允許孩子被帶走。於是孩子被送去寄養家庭待了三天。到這時了，小孩可以回家了嗎?是的，法官說可以了，但是前提是這位父親必須離開家裡到外面的旅館去住。等兩周後，我很高興的告訴大家，這一家人終於團聚了。但是社福機構、救護人員還有法官都說了同樣的話：”我們也討厭這樣子做，但是我們必需按規定辦事”。 這樣的事情怎麼會發生呢?史考特賽門(Scott Simon)在NPR內講了這個故事，他說：規則與制度可能死板呆滯，但是他們可以讓你不用思考。""公平一點的來說，規則常常都是強制性的，因為以前的官員比較鬆懈，他們讓一個孩子回到一個充滿漫罵與傷害的家庭。這樣的理由充份了。當事情做錯了，我們就會利用這類的工具去彌補。 這第一類的工具就是規則條例。更多更好的規則。第二種工具就是我們會尋求激勵的制度。更多更好的激勵方式。還有甚麼其他的方法與工具呢？我們可以輕易的在現在的金融危機的回應上發現到。管制、管制再管制。改善激勵方式、改善激勵方式還是改善激勵方式...事实是：不管是規則條例還是激勵方式，都不足以完成這樣的工作。你要如何去製定一條規定讓剛剛提到的那些清潔人員去做到他們應盡的工作內容呢?你會因為他們的同情心而發給他們獎金嗎?這看起來太荒謬了。當我們求助更多的獎勵制度時會發生甚麼事，規則條例與激勵方式只會在短期內讓事情變好，但是那些制度與條例產生了向下的漩渦，讓事情在長期內變的更糟。道德的技能已經被規則的過度信賴給粉碎了，它剝奪了我們的機會去隨機應變和臨場反應之中去學習。道德意願也被埋沒了因為不斷的尋求激勵方式而破壞了我們本身對於正確對待事情的欲望。不用去預想，尋求規則和激勵方式，我們將會經歷一場智慧的戰爭。 讓我來舉幾個例子，先是規則與道德技能的衝突。檸檬水的故事就是一個。第二個你們會更熟悉，美國現有的教育現況：照本宣科，遵尋著舊有的課程。這是一個發生在芝加哥幼稚園的例子。閱讀和欣賞以B開頭的單字和文學作品。浴室：把學生們聚集在一個小墊子上，警告學生們熱水的危險性。在計案中提出75件物品來教一本只有25頁的圖畫書籍。整個芝加哥的幼稚園，每個老師在同一天都以相同的方式說著同樣的話。我們清楚為甚麼有這樣的教案。我們無法充份的信任老師們的判斷力讓他們去自由發揮。像這樣的教案就像是應對災難的保險一樣。他們能夠預防災難。但是他們身為教師的職位，能肯定的是，他們造就了平庸。(掌聲) 不要誤會我的意思。我們需要規則!爵士樂手也需要一些樂譜，他們大部份的人還是需要看著樂譜演奏。我們需要更多的規則來約束銀行家，神也知道。但是太多的規則會讓熟練的爵士樂手無法即興創作。最後，他們就會失去他們的天賦，或者更壞的狀況是他們完全不再演出。 那激勵方式呢?它們看起來更聰明些。如果你有一個理由去做某件事，我會給你第二個理由做相同的事情單單從邏輯上來說兩個理由似乎比一個理由 好而你就更有理由去做。是吧?其實不一定。有的時後做同一件事的兩個理由可能會相當矛盾，而不是相輔相成他們就會使人不那麼願意去做。 因為時間有限我就在舉一個例子。大概在15年前的瑞士，人們試圖決定要在哪裡處理核廢料。那時舉行了全國性的公民投票。一些心理學家就四處游走，向一些知識豐富的公民拉票。他們就問”你願意在你的社區內放置核廢料嗎?”吃驚的是50%的公民都說願意。他們也知道危險性。他們知道這將降低他們房屋的價值。但是這些核廢料總要放到某地方而且做為公民也有義務負責。心理學家們稍微改了一下問題，又問了其它的人。他們問”如果我們每年付你六周的薪水，你願意在你的社區內安置核廢料嗎?”兩個理由，這是我的義務而且我還拿的到錢。不像是之前的50%說願意而已，現在只有25%的人願意這麼做。這個結果就是第二個激勵條件所造成的。它没有使我們去問”甚麼是我的職責義務?”而是問:”什麼符合我的利益？“當激勵機制不奏效的時候，當首席執行長不顧公司的長期健康的發展而去追求可以立即得到大量紅利的短期利益的時後，回應終是一樣的。建立更加巧妙的激勵制度。 事情的真相確是:你不可能想出足夠巧妙的激勵機制。任何激勵機制都可以被惡意的意願給推翻的。我們是需要激勵機制的。人們總是需要生活。但是對於激勵機制過分的依賴會讓道德的活躍性受挫這可以由兩個面向來看。他會讓已經在這個活動裡面的人失去士氣也會讓活動喪失民心。 在就職之前歐巴馬說”我們不僅僅問’這個有利潤嗎’還要問’這是對的嗎?’”當職位士氣受挫時，從事這個職位的人都會變得依賴甚至沉溺於激勵制度而且他們也不會問”這是正確的嗎?”我們能在醫療行業中看到這些事。”儘管不是那麼嚴重，我們最好注意一下確保這些事部會變成嚴重的訴訟。””我們當然也能在商業的世界裡看到這些。”為了在當今的市場保持競爭力，我們恐怕要用個懶漢來取代你的位置了。””為了這些混賬事將要達到目標的十分之一，我現在就出賣了我的靈魂。”這很顯然並不是人們所期待的工作方式。 那麼我們可以做些甚麼呢?下面是一些希望的來源:我們應該常是重新賦予工作道德的意涵。一個方法就是:不要教授過多的道德規範課程。(掌聲)要向人們展示你並不是那麼嚴肅，最好的方法就是把你要說的那些關於道德規範的事包裝起來帶到一個有蝴蝶結的小包裝裡，然後把它當成一節道德的課程交出來。 除此之外還可以做甚麼呢?方式一 : 表揚道德榜樣。當你走進法學院的時候會有一個很小的聲音就在你耳邊講訴阿提卡斯芬奇這位正義律師的故事。没有10歲的小孩進法學院是為了從事兼併和收購。人們會被道德英雄們給激勵。但我們知道，當詭辯強詞奪理的時後，你就會為不承認你有敬仰的道德英雄。還是承認他們吧。因你擁有他們而自豪吧。讚美他們。也需要有些人來教你認識與讚美這些道德英雄。這是我們可以做的一件事。 我不知道您們有多少人記得這件事:十五年前另一個道德英雄，愛倫福爾斯丁(Aaron Feuerstein)，他是麻薩諸塞州梅爾登米爾斯的老板 –這公司是生產Polarter材料工廠燒毀了，有3000個工人，他還是讓每一個工人都領到了工錢。為甚麼呢?因為如果讓工人離開對於他們來說，或者對於社區來說，這將是很不幸的災難。”可能名稱上我們並沒有華爾街的公司值錢，但我可告訴你們，它比想像的更有價值，我們做的很好” 就在TED，我就聽到了好幾個道德英雄的演講。有兩個特別激勵我。一個是雷安德森(Ray Anderson)，他 –(掌聲)，你們也知道，他把邪惡帝國的一部份變成了一個碳零排放，或者說是零排放的生意。為甚麼呢?因為這是正確的事。他發現的另一個額外的獎勵是:他實際上將會賺更多的錢。他的員工被他的作為所激勵。為甚麼呢?因為他們很樂意去做那些正確的事。昨天我們聽了威力斯密特(Willie Smits)關於重建印尼森林的演講。(掌聲) 從很多方面來說這是一個完美的例子。因為它利用了意願來做正確的事。上帝也知道這會用到很多的技術技能。我非常吃驚的是他和他的組織到底需要知道多少細節內容才能把事情規劃出來。但是最重要的是讓它運作起來，而且他強調這是用來讓很多團體的人們瞭解的一部份。除非和你一起工作的人們在身後支持你，不然這將會失敗。但沒有一個公式會告訴你如何讓人們支持你。因為在不同團體內有不同的人會用各種不同的方式來進行他們的生活。 在TED和很多其它的地方都有很多事值得稱讚。你也不必非要去當個超級英雄。有很多平凡的英雄就像是之前提到的清潔工人一樣，他們就是值得讚揚的平凡英雄。作為參與者，我們每一個人都應該努力如果成不了非凡的英雄也要成為一個平凡的英雄。作為公司的老板，我們應該努力的創造環境來鼓勵和培養道德技能與道德意願。即使是最聰明善解人意的人也會放棄如果要他們去逆流而行和他們工作的單位抗爭。 如果你要成立一家公司，你要確保沒有一個工作 – 沒有一個工作的工作說明會像之前的清潔人員的工作說明一樣。因為真相是你做的任何一個與人打交道的工作都是道德的工作。任何一個道德的工作都會依賴於實踐的智慧。 然後最重要的是身為一個老師，我們應該努力成為平凡的英雄，成為我們做為教導人們的道德模範。作為老師有一些事我們應該記住。一是我們一直都在教導。而有人會一直在觀察。鏡頭永遠是打開著的。比爾蓋茲談論過教育的重要性，還特別提供了KIPP規範。”知識就是力量”他也談到了許多美好的事情KIPP正在讓市中心的孩子走向大學的道路。 我想把重點放在KIPP正在做的一件事情上那是比爾蓋茲沒提過的。他們發現這樣一件事實就是孩子需要學的最重要的一件事就是人格。他們需要學習尊重自己。他們需要學習尊重他們的同學。他們需要學習尊重他們的老師。最重要的是，他們需要學習尊重學習。這是一個理論性的目標。如果你這麼做了，剩下的就像是向下的滑坡一路好走。老師們你們教導孩子的方法應該把每天每一分鐘所有的東西都融合在一起。 歐巴瑪呼籲美德。我認為他是對的。而且我認為我們最需要的美德就是實踐的智慧。因為它讓其它的美德 – 誠實，善良，勇氣等等 –在正確的時間以正確的方式展現出來。他還呼籲期望。也是對的。我認為呼籲期望是有原因的。我想人人都希望能都是善的。 從很大的程度上來說這就是TED的意義所在。期望能做正確的事情，以正確的方式，為正當的理由。這種智慧是我們每一個都能獲得的，只要我們開始注意。注意我們所做的事情，留心我們做事的方式，以及，可能是最重要的，去構築我們所工作的組織，以此來保證它可以讓我們和其它人開發智慧而不是壓制我們的智慧。 非常感謝您們。謝謝(掌聲) 克里斯‧安德森 : 你可能要到那邊站著等一下。 巴瑞‧史瓦茲 : 非常感謝大家。(掌聲)"
