Talk	en	zh-tw
bart_weetjens_how_i_taught_rats_to_sniff_out_land_mines	"I'm here today to share with you an extraordinary journey - extraordinarily rewarding journey, actually - which brought me into training rats to save human lives by detecting landmines and tuberculosis. As a child, I had two passions. One was a passion for rodents. I had all kinds of rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, squirrels. You name it, I bred it, and I sold them to pet shops. (Laughter) I also had a passion for Africa. Growing up in a multicultural environment, we had African students in the house, and I learned about their stories, so different backgrounds, dependency on imported know-how, goods, services, exuberant cultural diversity. Africa was truly fascinating for me. I became an industrial engineer, engineer in product development, and I focused on appropriate detection technologies, actually the first appropriate technologies for developing countries. I started working in the industry, but I wasn't really happy to contribute to a material consumer society in a linear, extracting and manufacturing mode. I quit my job to focus on the real world problem: landmines. We're talking '95 now. Princess Diana is announcing on TV that landmines form a structural barrier to any development, which is really true. As long as these devices are there, or there is suspicion of landmines, you can't really enter into the land. Actually, there was an appeal worldwide for new detectors sustainable in the environments where they're needed to produce, which is mainly in the developing world. We chose rats. Why would you choose rats? Because, aren't they vermin? Well, actually rats are, in contrary to what most people think about them, rats are highly sociable creatures. And actually, our product — what you see here. There's a target somewhere here. You see an operator, a trained African with his rats in front who actually are left and right. There, the animal finds a mine. It scratches on the soil. And the animal comes back for a food reward. Very, very simple. Very sustainable in this environment. Here, the animal gets its food reward. And that's how it works. Very, very simple. Now why would you use rats? Rats have been used since the '50s last century, in all kinds of experiments. Rats have more genetic material allocated to olfaction than any other mammal species. They're extremely sensitive to smell. Moreover, they have the mechanisms to map all these smells and to communicate about it. Now how do we communicate with rats? Well don't talk rat, but we have a clicker, a standard method for animal training, which you see there. A clicker, which makes a particular sound with which you can reinforce particular behaviors. First of all, we associate the click sound with a food reward, which is smashed banana and peanuts together in a syringe. Once the animal knows click, food, click, food, click, food — so click is food — we bring it in a cage with a hole, and actually the animal learns to stick the nose in the hole under which a target scent is placed, and to do that for five seconds — five seconds, which is long for a rat. Once the animal knows this, we make the task a bit more difficult. It learns how to find the target smell in a cage with several holes, up to 10 holes. Then the animal learns to walk on a leash in the open and find targets. In the next step, animals learn to find real mines in real minefields. They are tested and accredited according to International Mine Action Standards, just like dogs have to pass a test. This consists of 400 square meters. There's a number of mines placed blindly, and the team of trainer and their rat have to find all the targets. If the animal does that, it gets a license as an accredited animal to be operational in the field — just like dogs, by the way. Maybe one slight difference: we can train rats at a fifth of the price of training the mining dog. This is our team in Mozambique: one Tanzanian trainer, who transfers the skills to these three Mozambican fellows. And you should see the pride in the eyes of these people. They have a skill, which makes them much less dependent on foreign aid. Moreover, this small team together with, of course, you need the heavy vehicles and the manual de-miners to follow-up. But with this small investment in a rat capacity, we have demonstrated in Mozambique that we can reduce the cost-price per square meter up to 60 percent of what is currently normal — two dollars per square meter, we do it at $1.18, and we can still bring that price down. Question of scale. If you can bring in more rats, we can actually make the output even bigger. We have a demonstration site in Mozambique. Eleven African governments have seen that they can become less dependent by using this technology. They have signed the pact for peace and treaty in the Great Lakes region, and they endorse hero rats to clear their common borders of landmines. But let me bring you to a very different problem. And there's about 6,000 people last year that walked on a landmine, but worldwide last year, almost 1.9 million died from tuberculosis as a first cause of infection. Especially in Africa where T.B. and HIV are strongly linked, there is a huge common problem. Microscopy, the standard WHO procedure, reaches from 40 to 60 percent reliability. In Tanzania — the numbers don't lie — 45 percent of people — T.B. patients — get diagnosed with T.B. before they die. It means that, if you have T.B., you have more chance that you won't be detected, but will just die from T.B. secondary infections and so on. And if, however, you are detected very early, diagnosed early, treatment can start, and even in HIV-positives, it makes sense. You can actually cure T.B., even in HIV-positives. So in our common language, Dutch, the name for T.B. is ""tering,"" which, etymologically, refers to the smell of tar. Already the old Chinese and the Greek, Hippocrates, have actually published, documented, that T.B. can be diagnosed based on the volatiles exuding from patients. So what we did is we collected some samples — just as a way of testing — from hospitals, trained rats on them and see if this works, and wonder, well, we can reach 89 percent sensitivity, 86 percent specificity using multiple rats in a row. This is how it works, and really, this is a generic technology. We're talking now explosives, tuberculosis, but can you imagine, you can actually put anything under there. So how does it work? You have a cassette with 10 samples. You put these 10 samples at once in the cage. An animal only needs two hundredths of a second to discriminate the scent, so it goes extremely fast. Here it's already at the third sample. This is a positive sample. It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward. And by doing so, very fast, we can have like a second-line opinion to see which patients are positive, which are negative. Just as an indication, whereas a microscopist can process 40 samples in a day, a rat can process the same amount of samples in seven minutes only. A cage like this — (Applause) A cage like this — provided that you have rats, and we have now currently 25 tuberculosis rats — a cage like this, operating throughout the day, can process 1,680 samples. Can you imagine the potential offspring applications — environmental detection of pollutants in soils, customs applications, detection of illicit goods in containers and so on. But let's stick first to tuberculosis. I just want to briefly highlight, the blue rods are the scores of microscopy only at the five clinics in Dar es Salaam on a population of 500,000 people, where 15,000 reported to get a test done. Microscopy for 1,800 patients. And by just presenting the samples once more to the rats and looping those results back, we were able to increase case detection rates by over 30 percent. Throughout last year, we've been — depending on which intervals you take — we've been consistently increasing case detection rates in five hospitals in Dar es Salaam between 30 and 40 percent. So this is really considerable. Knowing that a missed patient by microscopy infects up to 15 people, healthy people, per year, you can be sure that we have saved lots of lives. At least our hero rats have saved lots of lives. The way forward for us is now to standardize this technology. And there are simple things like, for instance, we have a small laser in the sniffer hole where the animal has to stick for five seconds. So, to standardize this. Also, to standardize the pellets, the food rewards, and to semi-automate this in order to replicate this on a much larger scale and affect the lives of many more people. To conclude, there are also other applications at the horizon. Here is a first prototype of our camera rat, which is a rat with a rat backpack with a camera that can go under rubble to detect for victims after earthquake and so on. This is in a prototype stage. We don't have a working system here yet. To conclude, I would actually like to say, you may think this is about rats, these projects, but in the end it is about people. It is about empowering vulnerable communities to tackle difficult, expensive and dangerous humanitarian detection tasks, and doing that with a local resource, plenty available. So something completely different is to keep on challenging your perception about the resources surrounding you, whether they are environmental, technological, animal, or human. And to respectfully harmonize with them in order to foster a sustainable world. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	今天很榮幸來到這裡與大家分享一段驚奇的旅程這是一段非常有意義的旅程這也讓我投入訓練老鼠的工作讓牠們能夠嗅出地雷，甚至是肺結核來拯救人命小時候，有兩件事讓我很感興趣第一，是囓齒類的動物我養過很多種老鼠像是家鼠、倉鼠沙鼠、松鼠你們想得到的，我都養過，不信的話可以去問問寵物店老闆(笑聲)我對非洲這塊土地也非常感興趣在這多元環境下成長我認識各式各樣的當地學生從他們身上學到許多東西像是非洲的各種文化背景包括外來的知識技能物資、服務以及豐富的文化多樣性對我而言，非洲是個迷人的地方 我後來成為了一位工程師從事產品開發主要投入於探測技術也就是對開發中國家最實用的技術然而，在這個業界工作我對於這個以物質消費為主的社會其商品生產機制以及行銷手法感到不以為然於是我辭去那份工作，投入了真正需要關注的問題也就是地雷在一九九五年黛安娜王妃在電視上宣布地雷對於任何發展建設來說無疑是一種阻礙只要地雷還在或疑似有地雷的區域那裡就永遠是一塊荒地但這塊未開發之地對新的開拓者來說非常有吸引力因為那是一塊能讓他們進行長期開發並且自由運用的土地我們選用老鼠 選老鼠的原因是什麼呢？牠們不是害蟲嗎？現在，這群老鼠可說是完全顛覆了大家對老鼠的印象老鼠是非常群居的動物在畫面上你可以看到這附近有顆地雷有位受過訓練的操作人員和一直老鼠正在搜索當中老鼠不斷移動牠找到了地雷牠挖了點土並得到了些吃的當作獎勵非常的簡單對環境完全無害老鼠得到了吃的作為獎勵就是這樣進行的非常簡單 為什麼用老鼠呢？老鼠從50年代開始便被使用在各種實驗中老鼠的嗅覺受器基因和其他哺乳類動物相比比例高了許多牠們有靈敏的嗅覺此外，牠們還能為牠們聞到的味道做定位然後告訴其他同類我們要如何與老鼠溝通呢？我們沒辦法跟牠們說話但我們有個小東西，能發出聲響這是在訓練動物時常用的工具就是箭頭所指的那個玩意兒它能發出一種特別的聲音來加強動物的特定行為首先，我們讓老鼠把咔噠聲和食物獎勵聯想在一起所謂獎勵是用注射器餵牠們吃香蕉泥加花生當老鼠聽到咔噠聲，就知道有東西吃了咔噠，吃的！咔噠，吃的！當牠們習慣了之後我們把牠們放近一個有洞的籠子裡接著牠們學會了把鼻子探近洞口下面就放著有特殊氣味的目標物牠們會在那停個五秒這對老鼠來說很長了學會了之後，我們再把難度提高讓老鼠學會在最多有十個洞的籠子裡找東西 接著我們用皮帶繫住老鼠在開放空間尋找目標接下來，這些老鼠們就要去找真正的地雷了老鼠經過測驗並且達到了國際地雷行動標準就和狗一樣，須要通過測試在四百平方公尺大的地方地下藏著數枚地雷而訓練師和老鼠必須找到所有地雷完成的話，便能取得執照成為合格的巡雷鼠順便提一下，這就像訓練狗一樣但有稍許不同我們只花訓練狗兒經費的五分之一就可以訓練出能探測地雷的老鼠 這是我們在莫三比克的團隊我們坦尚尼亞籍的隊員教導三個莫三比克的同事如何訓練老鼠找地雷你可以從這些人眼中感受到驕傲的光芒因為他們有技術可以讓自己更獨立減少依賴外來援助另外，這個團隊也需要有卡車和人力才可以進行後續的實驗但我們在莫三比克訓練老鼠的經費其實不多比起傳統的掃雷方法，我們大約每平方公尺可節省六成的費用這已經是合理的開銷範圍以往每平方公尺2美元的花費，我們只需1.18美金而且價格還可以壓更低至於發展規模如果能引進更多老鼠的話就可以讓成效更顯著我們在莫三比克有個實驗據點十一個非洲國家的政府藉由老鼠掃雷的科技，使他們對於國外技術的依賴大大降低這些國家已經簽署對非洲大湖區的和平協議同時也認可老鼠可以進入國家邊界地帶掃除地雷 然而還有一個必須考量到的問題去年非洲大約有六千人死於誤觸地雷而去年全世界大約有一百九十萬人死於肺結核是傳染病裡的頭號殺手特別是在非洲猖獗的肺結核和愛滋病是最普遍的大問題世界衛生組織利用顯微鏡檢測大約有四到六成的可信度數字會說話，在坦尚尼亞有四成五的人是肺結核患者他們都在死前不久才診斷出感染了肺結核這意味著，你罹患肺結核的話很有可能檢查不出身體有什麼異樣但依舊會死於肺結核第二期或是其他併發症狀然而若你能早期診斷出來罹患肺結核還是有辦法治療的即使是愛滋病呈現陽性反應，也是相同道理你可以治療得好肺結核甚至愛滋病也還有救 以我們通用的荷蘭語來說肺結核稱為tering(荷語)其源自於柏油的氣味遠古中國人的祖先與古希臘名醫希波克拉底都曾經表示與證實能夠從患者所咳出的氣體判斷出此病患是否得到肺結核因此我們就從醫院取了些樣本以相同的型式進行實驗訓練老鼠去檢測樣本看結論是否一樣我們也想從中了解是否能利用為數眾多的老鼠達到將近九成的敏感度與八成六的準確度此為我們的策略♫也就是所謂的共通技術今日我們所探討的是地雷與肺結核然而事實上任何東西皆能列入考量 到底要如何執行呢？此長條板子上放置有十個樣本把這十個樣本同時放入籠子一隻老鼠只需0.005秒就能嗅出氣味，整個過程是十分迅速的老鼠已進行到第三個樣本了此為呈現陽性反應的樣本老鼠聽到指令等著接受食物獎賞由此來看我們可以快速地確認哪些病患呈現陽性反應哪些是陰性反應研究顯示透過人工顯微鏡的觀測一天可檢視四十個樣本但藉由老鼠的檢測相同數量的樣本只需七分鐘而已僅僅一個籠子(掌聲)僅僅一個籠子，就能飼養很多老鼠目前我們擁有二十五隻老鼠能夠篩檢肺結核僅僅一個籠子，在一天的運作之下可檢視一千六百八十個樣本你能想像把此類的技術運用到環境汙染偵測像是土壤污染或例行性的檢測像是違禁物品的檢測等等 不過目前先把焦點放在肺結核我簡短地說明一下藍色的長條圖是使用顯微鏡檢查的數量從非洲達累斯薩拉姆的五間診所總共有五十萬的人口數據調查已有一萬五千人完成檢測其中有一千八百人證實染上肺結核我們把那一萬五千個樣本拿回實驗室由老鼠們再檢測一次發現這些受測者的染病比率上升了約三成左右過去一年以來我們...這數據當然不是很精準我們藉由老鼠的幫助大幅增加了肺結核的發現率光是達累斯薩拉姆的五間診所發現率就上升了三至四成這可不是個小數目如果經由顯微鏡檢測漏掉了一個病患然後傳染給其他十五個人一年下來你可以想想我們能拯救多少人命至少我們的「鼠英雄」已救了不少人 現在我們該做的就是為這個技術制定一套標準化流程這其實並不難舉例來說，每個讓老鼠嗅聞的洞都有光線指引每個樣本只要五秒鐘就能搞定一點也不難另外，需要標準化的就是老鼠們的獎勵所有一切都要朝半自動化發展如此才能擴大這個檢測技術的規模進而拯救更多人命總而言之，這項技術能應用在許多方面這裡有個例子我們稱之為「攝影鼠」讓老鼠的背上背個攝影機讓牠們在地震或是其他天災之後進入瓦礫堆底下搜尋生還者這目前還在實驗階段我們還沒建構一套完整的系統 總而言之，我想說的是你們或許認為這個計劃開口閉口都是老鼠但它最終的目的還是為了人類好這項技術讓脆弱的人類能夠克服各種勞心勞力而且極度危險的人道檢測工作它的好處是利用本地資源就能解決一切而且可行性很高所以我們現在面臨一個重大改變我們必須以全新的角度來審視周遭的事物包括我們與生態環境、科學技術以及動物間的關係為了這個世界的永續經營我們必須與萬物和諧發展 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
