Talk	en	zh-tw
bassam_tariq_the_beauty_and_diversity_of_muslim_life	"I'm a blogger, a filmmaker and a butcher, and I'll explain how these identities come together. It started four years ago, when a friend and I opened our first Ramadan fast at one of the busiest mosques in New York City. Crowds of men with beards and skullcaps were swarming the streets. It was an FBI agent's wet dream. (Laughter) But being a part of this community, we knew how welcoming this space was. For years, I'd seen photos  of this space being documented as a lifeless and cold monolith, much like the stereotypical image painted of the American Muslim experience. Frustrated by this myopic view, my friend and I had this crazy idea: Let's break our fast at a different mosque in a different state each night of Ramadan and share those stories on a blog. We called it ""30 Mosques in 30 Days,"" and we drove to all the 50 states and shared stories from over 100 vastly different Muslim communities, ranging from the Cambodian refugees in the L.A. projects to the black Sufis living in the woods of South Carolina. What emerged was a beautiful and complicated portrait of America. The media coverage forced local journalists to revisit their Muslim communities, but what was really exciting was seeing people from around the world being inspired to take their own 30-mosque journey. There were even these two NFL athletes who took a sabbatical from the league to do so. And as 30 Mosques was blossoming around the world, I was actually stuck in Pakistan working on a film. My codirector, Omar, and I were at  a breaking point with many of our friends on how to position the film. The movie is called ""These Birds Walk,"" and it is about wayward street kids who are struggling to find some semblance of family. We focus on the complexities of youth and family discord, but our friends kept on nudging us to comment on drones and target killings to make the film ""more relevant,"" essentially reducing these people who have entrusted us with their stories into sociopolitical symbols. Of course, we didn't listen to them, and instead, we championed the tender gestures of love and headlong flashes of youth. The agenda behind our cinematic  immersion was only empathy, an emotion that's largely  deficient from films that come from our region of the world. And as ""These Birds Walk"" played at film  festivals and theaters internationally, I finally had my feet planted at home in New York, and with all the extra time and still no real money, my wife tasked me to cook more for us. And whenever I'd go to the local butcher to purchase some halal meat, something felt off. For those that don't know, halal is a term used for meat that is raised and slaughtered humanely following very strict Islamic guidelines. Unfortunately, the majority of halal meat in America doesn't rise to the standard that my faith calls for. The more I learned about these unethical practices, the more violated I felt, particularly because businesses from my own community were the ones taking advantage of my orthodoxy. So, with emotions running high, and absolutely no experience in butchery, some friends and I opened a meat store in the heart of the East Village fashion district. (Laughter) We call it Honest Chops, and we're reclaiming halal by sourcing organic, humanely raised animals, and by making it accessible and affordable to working-class families. There's really nothing like it in America. The unbelievable part is actually that 90 percent of our in-store customers are not even Muslim. For many, it is their first time  interacting with Islam on such an intimate level. So all these disparate projects — (Laughter) — are the result of a restlessness. They are a visceral response to the businesses and curators who work hard to oversimplify my beliefs and my community, and the only way to beat their machine is to play by different rules. We must fight with an inventive approach. With the trust, with the access, with the love that only we can bring, we must unapologetically reclaim our beliefs in every moving image, in every cut of meat, because if we whitewash our stories for the sake of mass appeal, not only will we fail, but we will be trumped by those with more money and more resources to tell our stories. But the call for creative courage is not for novelty or relevance. It is simply because our communities are so damn unique and so damn beautiful. They demand us to find uncompromising ways to be acknowledged and respected. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是個部落格寫手、電影製作人，還是個屠夫。我會向你們解釋，這幾個身份是如何融合到一起的。 四年前，當我和我的一個朋友，在紐約最繁忙的清真寺之一齋戒時，街上熙熙攘攘地全是帶著清真帽的大鬍子，這簡直是FBI的春夢。（笑聲）但作為這個群體的一員，我知道這個地方並不排外。這幾年來，我看了很多記錄這個地區的照片，它被描繪為一個死氣沈沈的龐然大物，就像美國穆斯林的刻板形象一樣。 正是因為對這種目光短淺的失望，我和我的朋友有了一個瘋狂的主意：我們決定，在齋戒期間，每晚都在另一個州的清真寺度過，然後把其間發生的故事上傳網路。我們將其稱為「三十個清真寺裡的三十天」。我們驅車前往五十個州，然後把在超過一百個清真寺裡發生的故事分享到網路，從洛杉磯項目裡的柬埔寨難民，到深入北卡羅萊納州叢林的黑蘇菲派。從中，我們看到了一個美麗又複雜的美國肖像。媒體的報道迫使當地記者重新造訪他們的穆斯林社區，但真正令人興奮的是，全世界的人都因為受此啟發，而去踏上他們的「三十天旅程」。還有兩個美國橄欖球聯盟的運動員，專門請了長假去做這件事。 正當「三十天清真寺」在全世界遍地開花之時，我實際上正在巴基斯坦忙著製作一部影片。共同導演歐麥和我，當時正與很多朋友在如何定位影片的問題上爭執不休，幾乎處在絕交的邊緣。這部片名叫《小鳥會走路》，拍攝的是關於街頭流浪兒奮力尋求家庭溫暖的故事。我們把焦點放在青少年和家庭糾紛的複雜性上，但我們的朋友執意要讓加入對無人機和定點轟炸的論點，來使得影片更「貼近時事」，最終是把這些因為信任我們才講出自家故事的人們變成一個個社會政治符號。當然，我們沒聽他們的，反之，我們的影片充沛著濃濃的愛意，和執拗的剪影青春。我們想傳達的只是一種設身處地的情感，一種從穆斯林地區的電影中經常缺失的情感。 《小鳥會走路》在全球許多電影節和影院播出之後，我終於在家鄉紐約的電影界有了一席之地。有了大把的空閒卻依舊沒有多少收入，太太讓我多給家裡做做飯。每當我去當地的肉店賣清真肉時，我總感覺有些不對勁。 對不清楚的人，我想在此解釋一下清真肉的意思，被屠宰的動物是被人道屠宰，整個過程遵循伊斯蘭準則。不幸的是，大多數的美國清真肉都沒達到伊斯蘭標準。我對這些缺德行為了解得越多，我就越感到被侵犯，特別是因為那些商戶都是來自我們自己的社群，卻在做著佔自家信仰便宜的勾當。所以，頭腦一熱，毫無屠宰經驗的我，和我的朋友開了家肉店，地點正在東村時尚區的心臟地帶。（笑聲）我們為之起名為「良心肉鋪」，我們用有機、人道培養的牲畜，和適合工薪階層的價格重新為清真正名。在美國，這還是第一次。最不可思議的是我們百分之九十的顧客，甚至都不是穆斯林。對於很多人來說，這都是他們第一次如此接近穆斯林。 於是，這些截然不同的項目——（笑聲）——都是一個個不眠之夜的成果。對於一些試圖過度簡化我的信仰和族群的商戶和管理者，這是我本能的回應。對付他們這個集團的唯一方法就是不按常理出牌。我們要用富有創造力的方法回應。我們要用信任、用我們的渠道、用我們特有的愛，不依不饒地奪回我們的信仰，無論它表現為一幀畫面、還是一塊肉。因為我們若為了迎合大眾口味而去粉飾我們的故事，我們不止會失敗，還會被更有錢、更有資源的人所操縱，才能講述我們的故事。但對於富有創造力的勇氣的呼喚，絕不是為了新奇感或為了貼近時事。這一切都只是因為我們這些族群都太獨特了，太美好了。他們要求我們去找到一種絕不折衷的方式，去獲得認同和尊重。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
