Talk	en	zh-tw
bastian_schaefer_a_3d_printed_jumbo_jet	What do we know about the future? Difficult question, simple answer: nothing. We cannot predict the future. We only can create a vision of the future, how it might be, a vision which reveals disruptive ideas, which is inspiring, and this is the most important reason which breaks the chains of common thinking. There are a lot of people who created their own vision about the future, for instance, this vision here from the early 20th century. It says here that this is the ocean plane of the future. It takes only one and a half days to cross the Atlantic Ocean. Today, we know that this future vision didn't come true. So this is our largest airplane which we have, the Airbus A380, and it's quite huge, so a lot of people fit in there and it's technically completely different than the vision I've shown to you. I'm working in a team with Airbus, and we have created our vision about a more sustainable future of aviation. So sustainability is quite important for us, which should incorporate social but as well as environmental and economic values. So we have created a very disruptive structure which mimics the design of bone, or a skeleton, which occurs in nature. So that's why it looks maybe a little bit weird, especially to the people who deal with structures in general. But at least it's just a kind of artwork to explore our ideas about a different future. What are the main customers of the future? So, we have the old, we have the young, we have the uprising power of women, and there's one mega-trend which affects all of us. These are the future anthropometrics. So our children are getting larger, but at the same time we are growing into different directions. So what we need is space inside the aircraft, inside a very dense area. These people have different needs. So we see a clear need of active health promotion, especially in the case of the old people. We want to be treated as individuals. We like to be productive throughout the entire travel chain, and what we are doing in the future is we want to use the latest man-machine interface, and we want to integrate this and show this in one product. So we combined these needs with technology's themes. So for instance, we are asking ourselves, how can we create more light? How can we bring more natural light into the airplane? So this airplane has no windows anymore, for example. What about the data and communication software which we need in the future? My belief is that the airplane of the future will get its own consciousness. It will be more like a living organism than just a collection of very complex technology. This will be very different in the future. It will communicate directly with the passenger in its environment. And then we are talking also about materials, synthetic biology, for example. And my belief is that we will get more and more new materials which we can put into structure later on, because structure is one of the key issues in aircraft design. So let's compare the old world with the new world. I just want to show you here what we are doing today. So this is a bracket of an A380 crew rest compartment. It takes a lot of weight, and it follows the classical design rules. This here is an equal bracket for the same purpose. It follows the design of bone. The design process is completely different. At the one hand, we have 1.2 kilos, and at the other hand 0.6 kilos. So this technology, 3D printing, and new design rules really help us to reduce the weight, which is the biggest issue in aircraft design, because it's directly linked to greenhouse gas emissions. Push this idea a little bit forward. So how does nature build its components and structures? So nature is very clever. It puts all the information into these small building blocks, which we call DNA. And nature builds large skeletons out of it. So we see a bottom-up approach here, because all the information, as I said, are inside the DNA. And this is combined with a top-down approach, because what we are doing in our daily life is we train our muscles, we train our skeleton, and it's getting stronger. And the same approach can be applied to technology as well. So our building block is carbon nanotubes, for example, to create a large, rivet-less skeleton at the end of the day. How this looks in particular, you can show it here. So imagine you have carbon nanotubes growing inside a 3D printer, and they are embedded inside a matrix of plastic, and follow the forces which occur in your component. And you've got trillions of them. So you really align them to wood, and you take this wood and make morphological optimization, so you make structures, sub-structures, which allows you to transmit electrical energy or data. And now we take this material, combine this with a top-down approach, and build bigger and bigger components. So how might the airplane of the future look? So we have very different seats which adapt to the shape of the future passenger, with the different anthropometrics. We have social areas inside the aircraft which might turn into a place where you can play virtual golf. And finally, this bionic structure, which is covered by a transparent biopolymer membrane, will really change radically how we look at aircrafts in the future. So as Jason Silva said, if we can imagine it, why not make it so? See you in the future. Thank you. (Applause)	我們對於未來瞭解多少呢？這問題很難，但答案很簡單︰「一無所知」我們無法預知未來我們只能給未來一個願景，去想像未來的樣子富有破壞性創新的願景能激發靈感這就是打破一連串平凡無奇思維的重要原因這就是打破一連串平凡無奇思維的重要原因 有許多人創造出他們自己心中未來的樣貌例如，這是廿世紀初期的願景在未來有種越洋的飛機只需要一天半就能橫越大西洋今天我們知道這種想像並沒有成真而這是現今最大的飛機空中巴士 A380，非常龐大能夠乘載許多人而在技術上完全不同於剛剛給你們看過的想像圖 我在空中巴士裡的一個團隊創造一個我們的願景能永續經營的航空事業永續對我們很重要這不僅應與社會價值聯結亦應與環保和經濟價值聯結所以我們創造了一種顛覆性的結構這仿效了大自然中骨頭或骨骼的設計因此這個可能看起來有點奇怪尤其對於那些了解結構的人但至少這像是一件藝術品是對於不同未來的一種探索 未來的乘客會是什麼樣子的？有年邁的、有年輕的、我們有日益升高的女性勢力還有一個影響所有人的重大趨勢這是未來的人體體態小孩的身形愈來愈大，但同時我們也向不同的方向成長所以我們需要在非常擁擠的機艙裡有更大的空間這些人們有不同的需求所以我們看到積極推廣健康的明確需求尤其是老年人我們希望有量身訂做的特別禮遇我們希望整個旅程是富有成效的而我們正在做的就是在未來應用最新的人機介面而且把這些全部整合在單一產品中 所以我們以科技的題材結合所有的需求例如，我們自問要如何產生更多的光？例如，我們自問要如何產生更多的光？如何在機艙內有更多的自然光？以這飛機為例，它不再有窗戶的設計在未來我們需要哪些資訊和通訊軟體呢？在未來我們需要哪些資訊和通訊軟體呢？我相信未來的飛機會有自己的意識它會更像是一個生命有機體而不是只是複雜工程的集合體這在將來是非常大的改變它會直接與機上的乘客交流它會直接與機上的乘客交流再談到材枓像是合成生物學我相信接下來我們會有愈來愈多應用在結構上的新材料因為結構是飛機最關鍵的設計之一 讓我們比較一下新舊兩種世界讓你們看看我們的作法這是 A380 機組員休息艙的框架以傳統銑床方式設計，重量很重以傳統銑床方式設計，重量很重而這裡是同樣功能的框架但利用骨骼的設計方式設計過程是完全的不同一個是 1.2 公斤而另一個僅有 0.6 公斤這 3D 列印技術和新的設計方式確實幫助我們減輕了重量重量是設計飛機時最重要的議題因為這和溫室氣體排放量有直接關係 將這個想法加以延伸大自然如何建造它的元件和結構呢？大自然很聰明，把所有的資訊全部放進一個小小的結構單元中，我們稱之為 DNA而大自然利用 DNA 建造大型的骨架所以我們在這裡看到「由單元到總體」的模式正如我說的，因為所有的訊息都在 DNA 當中而這也結合了「由總體到單元」的模式因為我們在每天的生活中我們鍛鍊肌肉和骨骼使其愈發強壯同樣的模式可以應用在工程中例如，我們以碳奈米管為結構元件用來完成建造一個無鉚釘的巨大骨架以下你可以看見這是如何辦到的想像碳奈米管在 3D 印表機裡生成嵌在一個塑膠的模型內順著組件中的施力延伸數以兆計的碳奈米管如森林般地聚結在一起利用這群「森林」作形態上的最佳化可以用來當作傳輸電能或資訊的結構或次結構我們拿這個材料結合「由總體到單元」的模式造出更巨大的元件 所以，未來的飛機會是什麼樣子？我們有非常特別的座椅可以配合不同身形的乘客可以配合不同身形的乘客我們在飛機上可以有社交的空間像是騰出一個區域打虛擬高爾夫球最後，這個覆蓋著一種透明生物高分子膜的仿生物結構將會徹底地改變我們看待未來飛機的方式 如 Jason Silva 所言「既然我們可以想像，那何不讓它成真？」期待在未來與你相見，謝謝。 （掌聲）
