Talk	en	zh-tw
beardyman_the_polyphonic_me	I'd like you all to ask yourselves a question which you may never have asked yourselves before: What is possible with the human voice? What is possible with the human voice? (Beatboxing) ♪ Ooh baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪ (Baby crying) ♪ baby ♪ (Baby crying) ♪ baby ♪ (Cat meowing) (Dog barking) Yeah. (Applause) (Boomerang noises) It was coming straight for me. I had to. It was, yeah. As you can probably well imagine, I was a strange child. (Laughter) Because the thing is, I was constantly trying to extend my repertoire of noises to be the very maximum that it could be. I was constantly experimenting with these noises. And I'm still on that mission. I'm still trying to find every noise that I can possibly make. And the thing is, I'm a bit older and wiser now, and I know that there's some noises I'll never be able to make because I'm hemmed in by my physical body, and there's things it can't do. And there's things that no one's voice can do. For example, no one can do two notes at the same time. You can do two-tone singing, which monks can do, which is like... (Two-tone singing) But that's cheating. And it hurts your throat. So there's things you can't do, and these limitations on the human voice have always really annoyed me, because beatbox is the best way of getting musical ideas out of your head and into the world, but they're sketches at best, which is what's annoyed me. If only, if only there was a way for these ideas to come out unimpeded by the restrictions which my body gives it. So I've been working with these guys, and we've made a machine. We've made a system which is basically a live production machine, a real-time music production machine, and it enables me to, using nothing but my voice, create music in real time as I hear it in my head unimpeded by any physical restrictions that my body might place on me. And I'm going to show you what it can do. And before I start making noises with it, and using it to manipulate my voice, I want to reiterate that everything that you're about to hear is being made by my voice. This system has — thank you, beautiful assistant — this system has no sounds in it itself until I start putting sounds in it, so there's no prerecorded samples of any kind. So once this thing really gets going, and it really starts to mangle the audio I'm putting into it, it becomes not obvious that it is the human voice, but it is, so I'm going to take you through it bit by bit and start nice and simple. So the polyphony problem: I've only got one voice. How do I get around the problem of really wanting to have as many different voices going on at the same time. The simplest way to do it is something like this. (Beatboxing) By dancing. It's like this. (Music) Thanks. (Applause) So that's probably the easiest way. But if you want to do something a little bit more immediate, something that you can't achieve with live looping, there's other ways to layer your voice up. There's things like pitch-shifting, which are awesome, and I'm going to show you now what that sounds like. So I'm going to start another beat for you, like this. (Beatboxing) There's always got to be a bit of a dance at the start, because it's just fun, so you can clap along if you want. You don't have to. It's fine. Check it out. I'm going to lay down a bass sound now. (Music) And now, a rockabilly guitar. Which is nice. But what if I want to make, say, a — (Applause) — Thanks. What if I want to make, say, a rock organ? Is that possible? Yes, it is, by recording myself like this. (Organ sound) And now I have that, I have that recorded. Assign it to a keyboard. (Music) So that's cool. (Applause) But what if I wanted to sound like the whole of Pink Floyd? Impossible, you say. No. It is possible, and you can do it very simply using this machine. It's really fantastic. Check it out. (Music) So every noise you can hear there is my voice. I didn't just trigger something which sounds like that. There's no samples. There's no synthesizers. That is literally all my voice being manipulated, and when you get to that point, you have to ask, don't you, what's the point? Why do this? (Laughter) Because it's cheaper than hiring the whole of Pink Floyd, I suppose, is the easy answer. But in actual fact, I haven't made this machine so that I can emulate things that already exist. I've made this so that I can make any noise that I can imagine. So with your permission, I'm going to do some things that are in my mind, and I hope you enjoy them, because they're rather unusual, especially when you're doing things which are as unusual as this, it can be hard to believe that it is all my voice, you see. (Voice effects) (Music) Like this. (Music) So, loosely defined, that is what's possible with the human voice. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. (Applause)	我想請在座的各位問自己一個我想請在座的各位問自己一個可能從來沒有想過的問題：人聲能創造哪些可能性？ 人聲能創造哪些可能性？ （口技表演）♪ Ooh baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪ ♪ baby ♪（嬰兒啼哭） ♪ baby ♪（嬰兒啼哭）♪ baby ♪（貓叫聲） （狗叫） 好了。 （掌聲）（迴旋鏢聲音） 它朝我飛過來。沒辦法。對啊。 你應該可以想像我小時候是個奇怪的小孩。 （笑聲） 因為我一直在不斷嘗試拓展我聲音技能來達到最大的可能。我不斷地嘗試。至今仍堅持不懈。我仍然在不斷探索各種我能夠發出的聲音。而現在的我年長了也更理智了，知道有一些聲音是我永遠都發不出的因為受到我身體限制，有些事情無法實現。還有些聲音沒有人能夠發出。 例如，沒人能同時發出兩個音符。你可以用泛音來唱，就像僧侶那樣，像這樣... （泛音詠唱） 但那根本不算。而且嗓子會很難受。所以有些事情你就是沒辦法做到而這些人類聲音的限制一直以來都困擾著我，因為口技是向世界傳播音樂理念的最佳辦法，因為口技是向世界傳播音樂理念的最佳辦法，但它們最多也就是音樂小品，正是這點讓我困擾。真希望有一種辦法能讓這些理念暢通無阻地演繹打破我身體的限制。 所以我和一些朋友們一起發明了一台機器。我們做了一套系統一台現場表演的機器，一台即時音樂創作器，它能讓得我只憑自己的聲音讓我腦海中的音樂衝破身體限制即時演繹出來。讓我給大家展示一下它是如何做到的。 在我開始用它控制我的聲音之前，我想重申你將要聽到的一切都來源於我的聲音。這套系統謝謝你，美麗的助手-這套系統在我把聲音輸入之前本身並沒有任何聲音，沒有任何事先錄製好的聲音。一旦機器開始運作，它會將我輸入的聲音進行處理，以至於很難辨別是否是人聲，但它是，我會帶大家一點一點來驗證先來點簡單又大眾的。 關於多聲調的問題：我只有一種聲音。我怎麼處理這個問題讓盡可能多的聲音同時發出來。最簡單的方法是這樣。 （口技） 用舞曲。像這樣。 （音樂） 謝謝。 （掌聲） 這應該算是最簡單的辦法。但如果你想要嘗試更即時的效果，超越一人即時錄播產生的效果，還有其它方法可以形成更多聲音層次。比如通過音高平移，這個方法非常棒，我現在向大家展示一下效果。 我會從一個新節奏開始，像這樣。 （口技）剛開始總是充滿舞曲風格，這樣非常有趣，你可以隨著音樂拍手。不願意也沒關係。聽好了。我現在會加入一段低音。（音樂）現在再加入一段鄉村搖滾吉他。 這樣不錯。但如果我想要...（掌聲）謝謝。如果我想要做一段搖滾風琴的聲音怎麼辦？可以做到嗎？沒錯，把我的聲音這樣錄製下來就可以。 （風琴聲） 現在我把它錄下來了。再配一段電子琴。 （音樂） 這樣很酷。 （掌聲） 但如果我想要做出整個平克·弗洛伊德樂團，這樣可能嗎？你會說不可能。錯了。完全有可能。這台機器很簡單就能實現。真的非常贊。聽好了。 （音樂） 你聽到的所有聲音都源自我的聲音。而不是我把這樣的音樂打開了。因為沒有帶子，也沒有合成器。這是實實在在由我的聲音變化而來，這個時候，你不禁要問，這有什麽意義？爲什麽要做這些？（笑聲）因為這比請平克·弗洛伊德樂團來要便宜。我想這是最簡答的回答。但事實是，我創造這台機器的目的並非模仿已存在的各種聲音。我創造它的目的是把我想像中的聲音變成現實。如果大家願意，我將把我腦海中的聲音演繹出來，希望大家會喜歡，因為它們是如此特別，特別是當你的聲音變成這樣真的很難相信這原來是我的聲音。 （音效） （音樂） 像這樣。 （音樂）所以，簡而言之，人類的聲音就是這樣充滿了可能性。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
