Talk	en	zh-tw
beatrice_coron_stories_cut_from_paper	"(Applause) (Applause) I am a papercutter. (Laughter) I cut stories. So my process is very straightforward. I take a piece of paper, I visualize my story, sometimes I sketch, sometimes I don't. And as my image is already inside the paper, I just have to remove what's not from that story. So I didn't come to papercutting in a straight line. In fact, I see it more as a spiral. I was not born with a blade in my hand. And I don't remember papercutting as a child. As a teenager, I was sketching, drawing, and I wanted to be an artist. But I was also a rebel. And I left everything and went for a long series of odd jobs. So among them, I have been a shepherdess, a truck driver, a factory worker, a cleaning lady. I worked in tourism for one year in Mexico, one year in Egypt. I moved for two years in Taiwan. And then I settled in New York where I became a tour guide. And I still worked as a tour leader, traveled back and forth in China, Tibet and Central Asia. So of course, it took time, and I was nearly 40, and I decided it's time to start as an artist. (Applause) I chose papercutting because paper is cheap, it's light, and you can use it in a lot of different ways. And I chose the language of silhouette because graphically it's very efficient. And it's also just getting to the essential of things. So the word ""silhouette"" comes from a minister of finance, Etienne de Silhouette. And he slashed so many budgets that people said they couldn't afford paintings anymore, and they needed to have their portrait ""a la silhouette."" (Laughter) So I made series of images, cuttings, and I assembled them in portfolios. And people told me — like these 36 views of the Empire State building — they told me, ""You're making artist books."" So artist books have a lot of definitions. They come in a lot of different shapes. But to me, they are fascinating objects to visually narrate a story. They can be with words or without words. And I have a passion for images and for words. I love pun and the relation to the unconscious. I love oddities of languages. And everywhere I lived, I learned the languages, but never mastered them. So I'm always looking for the false cognates or identical words in different languages. So as you can guess, my mother tongue is French. And my daily language is English. So I did a series of work where it was identical words in French and in English. So one of these works is the ""Spelling Spider."" So the Spelling Spider is a cousin of the spelling bee. (Laughter) But it's much more connected to the Web. (Laughter) And this spider spins a bilingual alphabet. So you can read ""architecture active"" or ""active architecture."" So this spider goes through the whole alphabet with identical adjectives and substantives. So if you don't know one of these languages, it's instant learning. And one ancient form of the book is scrolls. So scrolls are very convenient, because you can create a large image on a very small table. So the unexpected consequences of that is that you only see one part of your image, so it makes a very freestyle architecture. And I'm making all those kinds of windows. So it's to look beyond the surface. It's to have a look at different worlds. And very often I've been an outsider. So I want to see how things work and what's happening. So each window is an image and is a world that I often revisit. And I revisit this world thinking about the image or cliché about what we want to do, and what are the words, colloquialisms, that we have with the expressions. It's all if. So what if we were living in balloon houses? It would make a very uplifting world. And we would leave a very low footprint on the planet. It would be so light. So sometimes I view from the inside, like EgoCentriCity and the inner circles. Sometimes it's a global view, to see our common roots and how we can use them to catch dreams. And we can use them also as a safety net. And my inspirations are very eclectic. I'm influenced by everything I read, everything I see. I have some stories that are humorous, like ""Dead Beats."" (Laughter) Other ones are historical. Here it's ""CandyCity."" It's a non-sugar-coated history of sugar. It goes from slave trade to over-consumption of sugar with some sweet moments in between. And sometimes I have an emotional response to news, such as the 2010 Haitian earthquake. Other times, it's not even my stories. People tell me their lives, their memories, their aspirations, and I create a mindscape. I channel their history [so that] they have a place to go back to look at their life and its possibilities. I call them Freudian cities. I cannot speak for all my images, so I'll just go through a few of my worlds just with the title. ""ModiCity."" ""ElectriCity."" ""MAD Growth on Columbus Circle."" ""ReefCity."" ""A Web of Time."" ""Chaos City."" ""Daily Battles."" ""FeliCity."" ""Floating Islands."" And at one point, I had to do ""The Whole Nine Yards."" So it's actually a papercut that's nine yards long. (Laughter) So in life and in papercutting, everything is connected. One story leads to another. I was also interested in the physicality of this format, because you have to walk to see it. And parallel to my cutting is my running. I started with small images, I started with a few miles. Larger images, I started to run marathons. Then I went to run 50K, then 60K. Then I ran 50 miles — ultramarathons. And I still feel I'm running, it's just the training to become a long-distance papercutter. (Laughter) And running gives me a lot of energy. Here is a three-week papercutting marathon at the Museum of Arts and Design in New York City. The result is ""Hells and Heavens."" It's two panels 13 ft. high. They were installed in the museum on two floors, but in fact, it's a continuous image. And I call it ""Hells and Heavens"" because it's daily hells and daily heavens. There is no border in between. Some people are born in hells, and against all odds, they make it to heavens. Other people make the opposite trip. That's the border. You have sweatshops in hells. You have people renting their wings in the heavens. And then you have all those individual stories where sometimes we even have the same action, and the result puts you in hells or in heavens. So the whole ""Hells and Heavens"" is about free will and determinism. And in papercutting, you have the drawing as the structure itself. So you can take it off the wall. Here it's an artist book installation called ""Identity Project."" It's not autobiographical identities. They are more our social identities. And then you can just walk behind them and try them on. So it's like the different layers of what we are made of and what we present to the world as an identity. That's another artist book project. In fact, in the picture, you have two of them. It's one I'm wearing and one that's on exhibition at the Center for Books Arts in New York City. Why do I call it a book? It's called ""Fashion Statement,"" and there are quotes about fashion, so you can read it, and also, because the definition of artist book is very generous. So artist books, you take them off the wall. You take them for a walk. You can also install them as public art. Here it's in Scottsdale, Arizona, and it's called ""Floating Memories."" So it's regional memories, and they are just randomly moved by the wind. I love public art. And I entered competitions for a long time. After eight years of rejection, I was thrilled to get my first commission with the Percent for Art in New York City. It was for a merger station for emergency workers and firemen. I made an artist book that's in stainless steel instead of paper. I called it ""Working in the Same Direction."" But I added weathervanes on both sides to show that they cover all directions. With public art, I could also make cut glass. Here it's faceted glass in the Bronx. And each time I make public art, I want something that's really relevant to the place it's installed. So for the subway in New York, I saw a correspondence between riding the subway and reading. It is travel in time, travel on time. And Bronx literature, it's all about Bronx writers and their stories. Another glass project is in a public library in San Jose, California. So I made a vegetable point of view of the growth of San Jose. So I started in the center with the acorn for the Ohlone Indian civilization. Then I have the fruit from Europe for the ranchers. And then the fruit of the world for Silicon Valley today. And it's still growing. So the technique, it's cut, sandblasted, etched and printed glass into architectural glass. And outside the library, I wanted to make a place to cultivate your mind. I took library material that had fruit in their title and I used them to make an orchard walk with these fruits of knowledge. I also planted the bibliotree. So it's a tree, and in its trunk you have the roots of languages. And it's all about international writing systems. And on the branches you have library material growing. You can also have function and form with public art. So in Aurora, Colorado it's a bench. But you have a bonus with this bench. Because if you sit a long time in summer in shorts, you will walk away with temporary branding of the story element on your thighs. (Laughter) Another functional work, it's in the south side of Chicago for a subway station. And it's called ""Seeds of the Future are Planted Today."" It's a story about transformation and connections. So it acts as a screen to protect the rail and the commuter, and not to have objects falling on the rails. To be able to change fences and window guards into flowers, it's fantastic. And here I've been working for the last three years with a South Bronx developer to bring art to life to low-income buildings and affordable housing. So each building has its own personality. And sometimes it's about a legacy of the neighborhood, like in Morrisania, about the jazz history. And for other projects, like in Paris, it's about the name of the street. It's called Rue des Prairies — Prairie Street. So I brought back the rabbit, the dragonfly, to stay in that street. And in 2009, I was asked to make a poster to be placed in the subway cars in New York City for a year. So that was a very captive audience. And I wanted to give them an escape. I created ""All Around Town."" It is a papercutting, and then after, I added color on the computer. So I can call it techno-crafted. And along the way, I'm kind of making papercuttings and adding other techniques. But the result is always to have stories. So the stories, they have a lot of possibilities. They have a lot of scenarios. I don't know the stories. I take images from our global imagination, from cliché, from things we are thinking about, from history. And everybody's a narrator, because everybody has a story to tell. But more important is everybody has to make a story to make sense of the world. And in all these universes, it's like imagination is the vehicle to be transported with, but the destination is our minds and how we can reconnect with the essential and with the magic. And it's what story cutting is all about. (Applause)"	(掌聲) (掌聲) 我是個剪紙師。(笑聲)我剪出故事。所以製作過程非常明確。我拿一張紙，我將我的故事視覺化，有時我先畫草圖，有時我不會。當我的影像都在紙上後，我只要去除掉不是故事中的那部分。我並不是從一開始就投入剪紙的。事實上，我繞了迂迴的路才走到這一步。 我不是出生手上就拿著一把刀。我也不記得小時候有剪紙過。青少年時期，我會素描、畫畫，而且我想要成為一位藝術家。但我也很叛逆。於是我拋下一切去從事一連串奇怪的工作。例如，我當過牧羊女、卡車司機、工廠員工、清潔婦。我從事旅遊業，一年在墨西哥，一年在埃及。我搬到台灣去待了兩年。然後我定居在紐約，在這裡當起導遊。我同時也帶團出國旅遊，來回奔波於大陸、西藏和中亞。 當然，這花了很多時間，而我快40歲了，所以我決定是時候開始當一位藝術家。(掌聲)我選擇剪紙因為紙很便宜，又輕，而且你可以透過很多不同方法使用它。我採用黑色輪廓像的表達方式，因為這是非常有成效的圖像。只需要放入必要的元素。「輪廓 (silhouette)」這個字典故來自一位法國財務大臣Etienne de Silhouette。他砍掉很多預算以至於人們說他們再也無法負擔畫肖像的費用，於是必需畫肖像時，只能畫「一個黑色輪廓」。(笑聲)於是我做了一系列的圖像、剪紙，把它們集合成作品集。人們告訴我 —這像是帝國大廈的36景 —他們告訴我；「你在做藝術家的書。」 藝術家的書可以有很多的解釋，有很多的不同表現形式。對我而言，這些是非常棒的實體可用來視覺化呈現一個故事。它們可以和文字結合，或者沒有文字。而我很喜歡圖像和字。我愛雙關語和其與無意識的關聯。我愛語言的古怪。每到一個地方居住，我就學習當地的語言，但我未曾精通任何一種。因此我總是在找尋假的同源詞或者是不同語言中相同的字。 你可能猜到，我的母語是法文。我每天使用的語言是英文。於是我做了一連串的工作有關法文和英文中相同的詞語。其中有一些確實有成效，像是「拼字蜘蛛。」拼字蜘蛛是拼字蜜蜂的親戚 (拼字蜜蜂是美國法國都有舉辦的拼字比賽)(笑聲)但牠跟網子更有關連性。(笑聲)而這隻蜘蛛吐絲結網成了一張雙語字母表。所以你可以讀成「建築在進展中」(法文於此，形容詞放在名詞後)或者「進展中的建築。」(英文於此，形容詞放在名詞前)所以這隻蜘蛛從整個字母表中串連起相同的形容詞和名詞性實詞。如果你不知道其中一個語言的說法，馬上就可以學習。 書的一種古老形式是卷軸。卷軸非常方便，因為你可以在一張非常小的桌子上創造出一個大圖像。你想不到的是你眼睛所見只是你的圖像的一部分，但它構成了非常自由的結構。我做了這些窗戶。所以可以看到超越表象的事物。目的是可以一探不同的世界。我通常都是一個旁觀者。我要看事情如何運作,還有發生了什麼事。所以每個窗戶是一個影像,也是一個世界是我經常到訪的地方。我反覆來到這個世界，思考有關這些影像還有要如何處理這類的陳腔濫調，還有我們用來表達的字語和口語用法。 這全都是假設。假如我們住在氣球房子內？這會是非常令人振奮的世界。我們會在地球上留下很少的足跡。感覺如此輕盈。於是有時候我從內部往外看，以自我為中心，還有內部的圓圈。有時候是總體的景觀，檢視我們共有的根本和我們如何使用它們來抓住夢想。而我們也可以將它們用來做為一個安全網。 而我的靈感是非常不拘一格的。我受我所讀的、所見的每件事所影響。我創造一些幽默的故事，像是「死人敲打」。(英文中deadbeat合為一字，意思是賴債不還的人。)(笑聲)還有有關歷史的故事。這是「糖果城市。」不加甜蜜謊言的糖果歷史。從奴隸交易到過度消費糖類中間有一些甜美的時刻。有時候，我對新聞做出情感上的回應，例如2010年的海地地震。其它時候，這甚至不是我的故事。人們告訴我他們的遭遇，他們的回憶，啟發，而我創造一個腦內風景。我為他們的歷史開渠道，所以他們有管道可以回顧他們的生命和其可能性。我將這些稱為佛洛伊德城市。 我無法為我的圖像發聲，所以我就用標題帶過一些我創造的世界。「中庸城市。」「電力城市。」「哥倫布圓環的瘋狂成長。」「暗礁城市。」「時間之網。」「混亂城市。」「日常生活戰場。」「幸福城市。」「漂浮島。」曾經一次，我做了「九個院子。」(yard有院子和長度碼等不同意思)所以它的確是一張九碼長的剪紙。(笑聲)在生活和剪紙中，每件事都是有關連的。一個故事導向另一個。我對這個形式的物質性也有興趣，因為你必需沿著走才能看見。 我用類似剪紙的模式來訓練跑步。剛開始我做小的圖像，我跑幾英哩。我做大的圖像，我開始跑馬拉松。然後我跑50公里，接著60公里。然後我跑50英哩 — 超級馬拉松。而我仍然感覺我在奔跑。這是在訓練我成為一個長跑的剪紙師。 (笑聲) 而且跑步帶很我很多精力。這是一個為期三周的剪紙馬拉松在紐約市的藝術與設計博物館。成果是「地獄和天堂。」這是兩塊13尺高的板子。它們占據了博物館中的兩層樓，事實上，這是相連的圖像。而我稱它為「地獄和天堂」因為它是日常生活的地獄和天堂。兩者之間沒有邊界。有些人在地獄出生，排除萬難，他們成功到達天堂。其他人則從天堂掉到地獄。這是邊界。在地獄有血汗工廠。在天堂有人們出借翅膀。於是你看到這些獨立的故事，有時候我們也採取一樣的行動，而結果將置你於地獄或天堂。所以整個「地獄和天堂」是有關自由意志和宿命論。 剪紙時，圖像本身就是結構。所以你可以把圖從牆上移開。這是個放入藝術家的書中的作品，稱為「身分企劃。」這不是自傳形式的本體意識。更像是我們的社會身分。於是你可以走到它們之後而且穿上它們。所以這就像是我們被組成且呈現在世界前不同層次的身分。 這是另一個藝術家的書的企劃。事實上，在這張圖片中，你看到兩個。一個是我穿上的，還有一個是展覽中的，這是在紐約市的書籍藝術中心。為什麼我稱這為一本書？它被稱為「時尚宣言。」上面有跟時尚相關的引言，所以你可以讀它，而且，因為藝術家的書的定義非常廣泛。你可以將它們從牆上移下來。你可以帶著它們散步。你可以將它們作成公共藝術。這是在美國亞利桑那州史考特戴爾市，被稱為「漂浮的記憶。」所以這是片段的記憶，它們隨機地隨風飄動。 我愛公共藝術。長久以來我參與競賽。被拒絕八年之後，我非常興奮能夠得到我第一個委託，來自美國紐約市文化事務局百分比藝術專案。這是為了一個緊急救護員和救火員的綜合急救站。與其用紙，我選擇用不鏽鋼做成一本藝術家之書我稱之「朝同個方向努力工作。」但我在兩邊都加上風標以表示它們涵蓋了所有方向。我也可用切割玻璃來呈現公共藝術。這是在布朗克斯的刻面玻璃。每次我製作公共藝術時，我想要創造跟擺置地點真正有關聯的東西。講到紐約的地鐵，我看到搭乘地鐵和閱讀之間的關聯性。搭地鐵是及行和準時地旅行。布朗克斯的文學，就是布朗克斯的作家們和他們的故事。 另一個玻璃創作是在加利福尼州聖荷西市的一間公共圖書館。所以我從蔬菜的觀點描述聖荷西市的成長。從中心點開始是橡子代表歐隆族印地安人的文明。接著是來自歐洲的水果代表農場。然後是世界各地的水果，代表矽谷。而這還在成長中。我使用到的技術是切割，噴砂，蝕刻和印刷玻璃到建築物的玻璃上。另外在圖書館外面我想要創作一個陶冶心智的地方。我取材自圖書館中書名中有水果的作品，使用這些水果，將它們做成一條果樹園步道。我也種了一棵書之樹。這是一棵樹，在樹根處有語言的起源。這是國際間的書寫系統。在樹枝的部分，可看到圖書館的組成物在成長。公共藝術也是帶有功能性和型體的。展現在科羅拉多州奧羅拉市的是長椅。這張長椅帶給你的額外好處是，如果你在夏日穿著短袖坐了很長一段時間，你離開時大腿處會短暫留下故事的元素。 (笑聲) 另一個有功能性的作品，是在芝加哥南方的一個地鐵車站。稱作「未來的果實在今日種下。」這是個和轉變及連接有關的故事。這是用來保護軌道和通勤者，不讓東西掉入軌道的防護隔板。能將柵欄和窗戶欄杆變成花朵是非常棒的事情。接著這是我過去三年來一直在做的事情，和一位南布朗克斯開發者合作，將藝術落實在低收入住宅群和經濟價位房屋中。所以每棟建築都有自己本身的特性。有時，這和鄰近區域的傳統有關係。譬如莫瑞薩尼爾的爵士樂歷史。至於其它的企劃，像在巴黎，這和街名有關。這條街叫做Rue des Prairies(法文) — 大草原之街。於是我帶來兔子、蜻蜓，將牠們留在街上。 2009年時，我應邀製作一張海報要擺放在紐約市的地鐵車廂中，時間長達一年。觀眾們被困在車廂中，所以我想要給他們一個出口。我創造了「圍繞的城鎮。」這是剪紙，然後我用電腦加入顏色。所以我可以稱它為科技工藝。 在創造過程中，我使用剪紙還有添加其它技術。而結果總是要創作故事。講到故事，它們有很多的可能性。有很多的情節。我不知道這些故事。我從我們的國際化想像中，從一成不變的事物中，從我們思考的事情中，從歷史中擷取影像。所以每個人都是敘事者，因為每個人都有故事可告訴別人。更重要的是，每個人都能創作一個故事以理解這世界。在全部這些宇宙中，想像力就像是用來運載的交通工具，但終點站是我們的心智還有我們如何使用魔法再次和本質相連。所以這就是剪紙的目的。 (掌聲)
