Talk	en	zh-tw
beau_lotto_optical_illusions_show_how_we_see	"I want to start with a game. Okay? And to win this game, all you have to do is see the reality that's in front of you as it really is, all right? So we have two panels here, of colored dots. And one of those dots is the same in the two panels. And you have to tell me which one. Now, I narrowed it down to the gray one, the green one, and, say, the orange one. So by a show of hands, we'll start with the easiest one. Show of hands: how many people think it's the gray one? Really? Okay. How many people think it's the green one? And how many people think it's the orange one? Pretty even split. Let's find out what the reality is. Here is the orange one. (Laughter) Here is the green one. And here is the gray one. (Laughter) So for all of you who saw that, you're complete realists. All right? (Laughter) So this is pretty amazing, isn't it? Because nearly every living system has evolved the ability to detect light in one way or another. So for us, seeing color is one of the simplest things the brain does. And yet, even at this most fundamental level, context is everything. What I'm going to talk about is not that context is everything, but why context is everything. Because it's answering that question that tells us not only why we see what we do, but who we are as individuals, and who we are as a society. But first, we have to ask another question, which is, ""What is color for?"" And instead of telling you, I'll just show you. What you see here is a jungle scene, and you see the surfaces according to the amount of light that those surfaces reflect. Now, can any of you see the predator that's about to jump out at you? And if you haven't seen it yet, you're dead, right? (Laughter) Can anyone see it? Anyone? No? Now let's see the surfaces according to the quality of light that they reflect. And now you see it. So, color enables us to see the similarities and differences between surfaces, according to the full spectrum of light that they reflect. But what you've just done is in many respects mathematically impossible. Why? Because, as Berkeley tells us, we have no direct access to our physical world, other than through our senses. And the light that falls onto our eyes is determined by multiple things in the world, not only the color of objects, but also the color of their illumination, and the color of the space between us and those objects. You vary any one of those parameters, and you'll change the color of the light that falls onto your eye. This is a huge problem, because it means that the same image could have an infinite number of possible real-world sources. Let me show you what I mean. Imagine that this is the back of your eye, okay? And these are two projections from the world. They're identical in every single way. Identical in shape, size, spectral content. They are the same, as far as your eye is concerned. And yet they come from completely different sources. The one on the right comes from a yellow surface, in shadow, oriented facing the left, viewed through a pinkish medium. The one on the left comes from an orange surface, under direct light, facing to the right, viewed through sort of a bluish medium. Completely different meanings, giving rise to the exact same retinal information. And yet it's only the retinal information that we get. So how on Earth do we even see? So if you remember anything in this next 18 minutes, remember this: that the light that falls onto your eye, sensory information, is meaningless, because it could mean literally anything. And what's true for sensory information is true for information generally. There's no inherent meaning in information. It's what we do with that information that matters. So, how do we see? Well, we see by learning to see. The brain evolved the mechanisms for finding patterns, finding relationships in information, and associating those relationships with a behavioral meaning, a significance, by interacting with the world. We're very aware of this in the form of more cognitive attributes, like language. I'm going to give you some letter strings, and I want you to read them out for me, if you can. Audience: ""Can you read this?"" ""You are not reading this."" ""What are you reading?"" Beau Lotto: ""What are you reading?"" Half the letters are missing, right? There's no a priori reason why an ""H"" has to go between that ""W"" and ""A."" But you put one there. Why? Because in the statistics of your past experience, it would have been useful to do so. So you do so again. And yet you don't put a letter after that first ""T."" Why? Because it wouldn't have been useful in the past. So you don't do it again. So, let me show you how quickly our brains can redefine normality, even at the simplest thing the brain does, which is color. So if I could have the lights down up here. I want you to first notice that those two desert scenes are physically the same. One is simply the flipping of the other. Now I want you to look at that dot between the green and the red. And I want you to stare at that dot. Don't look anywhere else. We're going to look at it for about 30 seconds, which is a bit of a killer in an 18-minute talk. (Laughter) But I really want you to learn. And I'll tell you — don't look anywhere else — I'll tell you what's happening in your head. Your brain is learning, and it's learning that the right side of its visual field is under red illumination; the left side of its visual field is under green illumination. That's what it's learning. Okay? Now, when I tell you, I want you to look at the dot between the two desert scenes. So why don't you do that now? (Laughter) Can I have the lights up again? I take it from your response they don't look the same anymore, right? (Applause) Why? Because your brain is seeing that same information as if the right one is still under red light, and the left one is still under green light. That's your new normal. Okay? So, what does this mean for context? It means I can take two identical squares, put them in light and dark surrounds, and the one on the dark surround looks lighter than on the light surround. What's significant is not simply the light and dark surrounds that matter. It's what those light and dark surrounds meant for your behavior in the past. So I'll show you what I mean. Here we have that exact same illusion. We have two identical tiles on the left, one in a dark surround, one in a light surround. And the same thing over on the right. Now, I'll reveal those two scenes, but I'm not going to change anything within those boxes, except their meaning. And see what happens to your perception. Notice that on the left the two tiles look nearly completely opposite: one very white and one very dark, right? Whereas on the right, the two tiles look nearly the same. And yet there is still one on a dark surround, and one on a light surround. Why? Because if the tile in that shadow were in fact in shadow, and reflecting the same amount of light to your eye as the one outside the shadow, it would have to be more reflective — just the laws of physics. So you see it that way. Whereas on the right, the information is consistent with those two tiles being under the same light. If they're under the same light reflecting the same amount of light to your eye, then they must be equally reflective. So you see it that way. Which means we can bring all this information together to create some incredibly strong illusions. This is one I made a few years ago. And you'll notice you see a dark brown tile at the top, and a bright orange tile at the side. That is your perceptual reality. The physical reality is that those two tiles are the same. Here you see four gray tiles on your left, seven gray tiles on the right. I'm not going to change those tiles at all, but I'm going to reveal the rest of the scene. And see what happens to your perception. The four blue tiles on the left are gray. The seven yellow tiles on the right are also gray. They are the same. Okay? Don't believe me? Let's watch it again. What's true for color is also true for complex perceptions of motion. So, here we have — let's turn this around — a diamond. And what I'm going to do is, I'm going to hold it here, and I'm going to spin it. And for all of you, you'll see it probably spinning this direction. Now I want you to keep looking at it. Move your eyes around, blink, maybe close one eye. And suddenly it will flip, and start spinning the opposite direction. Yes? Raise your hand if you got that. Yes? Keep blinking. Every time you blink, it will switch. So I can ask you, which direction is it rotating? How do you know? Your brain doesn't know, because both are equally likely. So depending on where it looks, it flips between the two possibilities. Are we the only ones that see illusions? The answer to this question is no. Even the beautiful bumblebee, with its mere one million brain cells, which is 250 times fewer cells than you have in one retina, sees illusions, does the most complicated things that even our most sophisticated computers can't do. So in my lab we work on bumblebees, because we can completely control their experience, and see how it alters the architecture of their brain. We do this in what we call the Bee Matrix. Here you have the hive. You can see the queen bee, the large bee in the middle. Those are her daughters, the eggs. They go back and forth between this hive and the arena, via this tube. You'll see one of the bees come out here. You see how she has a little number on her? There's another one coming out, she also has a number on her. Now, they're not born that way, right? We pull them out, put them in the fridge, and they fall asleep. Then you can superglue little numbers on them. (Laughter) And now, in this experiment they get a reward if they go to the blue flowers. They land on the flower, stick their tongue in there, called a proboscis, and drink sugar water. She's drinking a glass of water that's about that big to you and I, will do that about three times, then fly. And sometimes they learn not to go to the blue, but to go where the other bees go. So they copy each other. They can count to five. They can recognize faces. And here she comes down the ladder. And she'll come into the hive, find an empty honey pot, and throw up, and that's honey. (Laughter) Now remember, she's supposed to be going to the blue flowers, but what are these bees doing in the upper right corner? It looks like they're going to green flowers. Now, are they getting it wrong? And the answer to the question is no. Those are actually blue flowers. But those are blue flowers under green light. So they're using the relationships between the colors to solve the puzzle, which is exactly what we do. So, illusions are often used, especially in art, in the words of a more contemporary artist, ""to demonstrate the fragility of our senses."" Okay, this is complete rubbish. The senses aren't fragile. And if they were, we wouldn't be here. Instead, color tells us something completely different, that the brain didn't actually evolve to see the world the way it is. We can't. Instead, the brain evolved to see the world the way it was useful to see in the past. And how we see is by continually redefining normality. So, how can we take this incredible capacity of plasticity of the brain and get people to experience their world differently? Well, one of the ways we do it in my lab and studio is we translate the light into sound, and we enable people to hear their visual world. And they can navigate the world using their ears. Here's David on the right, and he's holding a camera. On the left is what his camera sees. And you'll see there's a faint line going across that image. That line is broken up into 32 squares. In each square, we calculate the average color. And then we just simply translate that into sound. And now he's going to turn around, close his eyes, and find a plate on the ground with his eyes closed. (Continuous sound) (Sound changes momentarily) (Sound changes momentarily) (Sound changes momentarily) (Sound changes momentarily) (Sound changes momentarily) Beau Lotto: He finds it. Amazing, right? So not only can we create a prosthetic for the visually impaired, but we can also investigate how people literally make sense of the world. But we can also do something else. We can also make music with color. So, working with kids, they created images, thinking about what might the images you see sound like if we could listen to them. And then we translated these images. And this is one of those images. And this is a six-year-old child composing a piece of music for a 32-piece orchestra. And this is what it sounds like. (Electronic representation of orchestral music) So, a six-year-old child. Okay? Now, what does all this mean? What this suggests is that no one is an outside observer of nature, okay? We're not defined by our central properties, by the bits that make us up. We're defined by our environment and our interaction with that environment, by our ecology. And that ecology is necessarily relative, historical and empirical. So, what I'd like to finish with is this over here. Because what I've been trying to do is really celebrate uncertainty. Because I think only through uncertainty is there potential for understanding. So, if some of you are still feeling a bit too certain, I'd like to do this one. So, if we have the lights down. And what we have here — Can everyone see 25 purple surfaces on your left, and 25, call it yellowish, surfaces on your right? So now, what I want to do, I'm going to put the middle nine surfaces here under yellow illumination, by simply putting a filter behind them. Now you can see that changes the light that's coming through there, right? Because now the light is going through a yellowish filter and then a purplish filter. I'm going to do the opposite on the left here. I'm going to put the middle nine under a purplish light. Now, some of you will have noticed that the consequence is that the light coming through those middle nine on the right, or your left, is exactly the same as the light coming through the middle nine on your right. Agreed? Yes? Okay. So they are physically the same. Let's pull the covers off. Now remember — you know that the middle nine are exactly the same. Do they look the same? No. The question is, ""Is that an illusion?"" And I'll leave you with that. So, thank you very much. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"我想要從一個遊戲開始要贏這個遊戲你所要做的就是認定你眼前所見的就是真的 好嗎這兒有兩片板子上面有彩色圓點兩片板子中其中一個圓點是一樣的你們得告訴我是哪一個 現在　將範圍縮小到灰色　綠色　和橘色的好了用舉手表示 我們從最容易的那個的開始舉起你的手 有多少人認為是灰色的?真的嗎？　好的有多少人認為是綠色的?多少人認為橘色才對?分配滿平均的嘛 讓我們來讓真相大白先看看橘色的(眾笑)還有綠色的再看看灰色的(眾人大笑)可以看破秘密的人　你們是徹底的現實主義者(眾人大笑) 這很令人吃驚不是嗎因為幾乎所有生命系統都已經發展出可以設法感應光的能力所以對我們而言 看見顏色應該是大腦最簡單的工作然而即使是這最基本的事情背景才是最重要的今天我想要談論的不是「背景最重要」這件事而是「為什麼背景最重要」因為這不僅回答了我們為何我們做了什麼就看到什麼還有以個體的角度以及在社會群體中我們的角色為何 但首先 我們需要問另一個問題""顏色的功能是什麼?""與其用講的不如秀給你看現在我們看到的是叢林你所看到的這外觀是根據從物體表面反射的光的多寡現在 有任何人看見一隻就要朝你跳出來的掠食動物嗎?如果還沒看見大概死定了 對吧(眾人笑)有人可以看見嗎? 有人嗎? 沒有?現在讓我們根據表面反射光的性質來看看現在看到了吧 所以 顏色讓我們可以看見外觀上的相似與相異根據他們反射的所有光譜但你們剛做到的　在很多方面　不可能以數學方法解釋為什麼 ? 因為就像Barkley告訴我們的我們沒有直接進入真實世界的方法除了透過我們的感受而進入我們眼睛的光是由外在世界許多東西決定的不只是物體的顏色還有照明的顏色以及我們與物體間環境的色彩只要你改變其中一項將會改變進入你眼睛的光的顏色 這是一個很重要的問題　因為這代表相同的影像可能來自無限多個像源讓我秀給你看我在說什麼　想像一下這是你眼睛的底部這裡的兩個來自外在世界的投影他們是完全相同的包括形狀 大小 光譜如你所見 他們一模一樣然而他們來自完全不同的來源右邊的這一個來自黃色的表面在陰影裡　面向左邊從粉紅色物質看過去得到的左邊這個則是從橘色表面在直接光照下　面向右邊從藍色物質看過去得到的意義完全不同卻造成了完全相同的視網膜訊息而這還只是我們接收到的視網膜訊息而這還只是我們接收到的視網膜訊息 在地球上我們甚至如何運用視覺?如果你記得接下來這十八分鐘的任何事只要記得：那都是進入你眼睛的光感覺到的訊息是沒有意義的因為那可以是任何東西大致上來說感覺到的訊息的本質就跟一般的訊息一樣本身並沒有任何意義所謂的訊息就是這樣 所以我們如何能看? 其實　我們能看是學來的大腦發展了辨識圖樣的機制在訊息裡頭的找出關聯性並賦予這些前因後果行為上的意義藉由與外在世界互動所得的意義我們對於較多認知特質的形式相當敏銳　像是語言我將會給你們一些字串　並且希望你們為我念出來如果你可以的話 觀眾：『你可以讀這個嗎？』『你不能讀這個』『你正在讀什麼？』 包拉托：『你正在讀什麼？』裡有一半的字母不見了對吧？沒有什麼道理H一定要在W和A中間但是你這麼做了　為什麼？因為根據你過去經驗的統計以前這樣做都很有用　所以你就再次這麼做了然而你不會放個字母在第一個T後面為什麼？　因為過去這麼做並沒有用所以你不會再次這樣做 讓我告訴你我們的大腦可以多快重新定義常態甚至是大腦所處理最簡單的事情　也就是色彩如果我把燈關掉我想要你們先注意那兩個沙漠景像實際上是一樣的其中一張只是另一張的翻轉現在請你們看著在綠與紅之間的圓點　好嗎而且你門要盯著這個圓點不要看其它地方我們將會看著它約三十秒它就是這場十八分鐘的演講裡最迷人的東西(眾笑) 但我其實是想要你去學而且我將告訴你－－不要看其他地方我將告訴你在你的腦袋裡發生了什麼事你的大腦正在學　學習視野的右邊是在紅色照明下視野左邊則是綠色照明下這就是大腦正在學的現在　當我告訴我想要你看著沙漠景像中間的圓點所以你們何不現在做？(眾人笑)可以把燈打開嗎? 我從你們的反應知道他們看起來不再一樣了對吧？(鼓掌)這是為什麼呢? 因為你們的大腦正以相同的訊息在看東西就像右邊那個仍在紅光下左邊仍在綠光下這就是你新的常態 所以這對背景有何意義?它代表我可以把這兩個相同的正方形放到亮的跟暗的環境中現在在被黑暗包圍的那個看起來比被光包圍的還要亮有意義的並非周圍亮暗而是周圍亮暗這件事對你過去的行為意味著什麼 接下來我將展示我的意思是什麼這一樣是錯覺左邊有兩個相同的磁磚一個在暗背景中　一個在亮背景中右邊也是同樣的情形現在　我將檢視這兩幅景象但不改變這兩幅圖中任何事物除了他們的意義並且看看你們的感知發生了什麼事 注意左邊的這幅兩個磁磚看起來幾乎完全相反一個很亮一個很暗是吧　相反地　右邊這幅兩個磁磚看起來幾乎一樣但也是一個在暗背景中　一個在亮背景中為什麼？　因為如果磁磚在那樣的陰影裡是真的在陰影內而且反射了和陰影外那個磁磚一樣多的光到你的眼睛那它勢必要更能反射光線才行　這是物理定律所以你看見一暗一亮的視覺效果 相反地　右邊那幅訊息是一致的兩個磁磚都是在相同的光照之下如果是在相同的照明下　它們反射到你眼睛的光是一樣多的那他們的反射能力是一樣的所以你覺得他們一樣亮這意味著我們可以把所有的訊息結合在一起創造出一些難以置信的強烈錯覺 這是我在多年前做的一張圖你們將會發現你們看到了一個褐色磁磚在上邊還有一個亮橘色磁磚在旁邊這是你的感知的事實　但科學事實是這兩個磁磚是一樣的 這兒你則看到四個灰色磁磚在你的左邊七的灰色磁磚在右邊我不會改變這些磁磚一丁點兒但我將揭開其餘的畫面看看你的感知會有什麼變化右邊四個藍色的磁磚是灰色的左邊七個黃色的瓷磚也是灰色的它們是一樣的不相信我嗎？　再看一次 顏色的真相,就像複雜的情緒感知的結果這兒我們有讓我們把這個翻過來　一個鑽石接下來我要做的是把它放在這兒然後旋轉它你們大家大概都會看到它往這個方向轉現在我要你們繼續看著它轉轉你的眼睛　眨一眨　或者閉上一隻眼突然間它就這麼反轉了　往相反方向旋轉有沒有？　如果你看到就舉手　有吧？繼續眨眨眼　每眨一次他就切換一次　對吧所以我問你　哪個方向是它旋轉的方向？你怎麼知道？你的大腦不知道　因為兩種可能性相等根據它從那兒看 它會在兩種可能性之間反轉 我們是唯一看見錯覺的嗎？這個問題的答案是否即使是漂亮的大黃蜂有著僅僅一百萬個腦細胞比你一個視網膜的細胞的兩百五十分之一還少一樣看到錯覺　處理最複雜的事而且是我們最精密的電腦都無法辦到的在我的實驗室　我們當然也研究了大黃蜂因為我們可以完全控制牠們的實驗並且看那如何改變他們的大腦結構我們做的這個叫做蜜蜂矩陣 這兒有個蜂巢　你可以看到蜂后那隻巨大的黃蜂就在中間那兒　那些卵全都是她的女兒們他們在蜂房與活動場所之間藉由這個管子來回走動你將看到其中一隻蜜蜂從這兒出來你可以看出她如何得到她的編號呀　又有一隻跑出來了　她變成了另一號牠們不是生來就有編號的　對吧?我們把牠們拿出來　將牠們放進冰箱　讓他們睡著然後你可以替牠們黏上小數字(眾笑) 在這個實驗牠們若去藍色的花那兒將會被獎勵牠們停在花上 將舌頭伸進去那稱為口器　然後他們吸食糖水現在她喝了一杯對你我來說大概這麼多的水大概喝了三倍之後　就會飛走有的時候他們學到不要飛到藍色的花而是到其他黃蜂去的地方所以他們可以吸取彼此的經驗　可以數到五　也可以辨識長相這時她她將會進到蜂巢　找個空的蜂蜜槽開始嘔吐　那就是蜂蜜(眾笑) 現在請記得　(笑)她預期要去藍花那兒但其他的黃蜂正在右上邊的角落做什麼呢?看起來牠們正在往綠花那兒去牠們弄錯了嗎?當然不是　這些實際上是藍色的花只是這些藍色的花是在綠色照明下所以他們正跟我們一樣　利用顏色的關係解開謎團 所以　錯覺常常被利用特別是在藝術　應該說是較為當代的藝術家拿來『展示我們知覺的脆弱』這是一派胡言知覺不是脆弱的　如果是　我們不會在這兒另一方面　顏色告訴我們有些事物是完全不同的就是大腦並非真的進化來看出世界真正的樣子我們不能　取而代之的是　大腦是進化來理解世界的在過去這對「看」是很有用的我們能看是藉由不停地定義常態 所以我們如何能利用這個大腦不可思議的可塑性並且使人們以不同方式體驗他們的世界?在我們的實驗室及工作室所用的其中一種方法是將光轉成聲音讓人們可以聽見他們所見的世界他們可以用耳朵遨遊世界 右邊這是大衛　他正拿著照相機左邊是他的攝影機所見的你可以看見這兒有條線　一條跨過影像的淡線這條線分離為三十二個正方形每個方形我們計算它的平均顏色我們只是簡單地將它轉成聲訊現在他正要轉過身　閉上眼睛並閉上眼睛找一塊在地上的板子 他找到了　神奇吧?所以我們不僅能為視覺創傷製做義眼也能研究人類如何如實地感覺世界但我們還可做更多事　我們可以和孩子們一起他們創作影像想像你可能看到什麼影像聽起來就像我們可以了解他們然後我們開始轉譯這些影像這是其中一幅影像也是一位六歲孩子以三十二件樂器組成的樂團所創作的音樂作品這就是它聽起來的樣子一個六歲的小孩子喔 這所有種種表示什麼?它暗示沒有人是自然界中置身事外的觀察者我們並非由自身的特性所定義也不是是組成我們的點滴我們是被我們的環境以及我們和環境之間的交互作用所定義也就是我們的生態而這生態必然是相對的並基於歷史及經驗的我想要以此做結因為過去我所嘗試去做的實際上正是頌揚不確定性因為我認為只有透過不確定性才有了解的潛力 所以如果你們其中某些人仍有點兒覺得萬事必然我想要做件事我們關掉燈這兒看到的是大家都看到二十五個紫色面了嗎?在你的左邊以及二十五個所謂的淡黃面在你右邊接下來　我想要做的是我要使中間九個在黃色照明下只要在它們後面放上簡單的濾片就行了好了　現在你可以看到那使光改變了光從這兒過來　對吧因為現在光線通過了淡黃色的濾片然後用紫色的濾片接下來我要反過來把中間這九個放在紫光下 現在　你們其中有些人將察覺到接下來一連串發生的右邊的中間九個所透過的光或左邊的和右邊中間九個所透過的光是完全相同的同意吧?很好　所以它們實際上一樣讓我們推開罩子請記得你知道中間九個是完全一樣的但它們看起來一樣嗎?　不問題來了　「那真的是錯覺嗎?」我把這問題給你們謝謝大家(鼓掌)"
