Talk	en	zh-tw
beau_lotto_amy_o_toole_science_is_for_everyone_kids_included	"Beau Lotto: So, this game is very simple. All you have to do is read what you see. Right? So, I'm going to count to you, so we don't all do it together. Okay, one, two, three.Audience: Can you read this? BL: Amazing. What about this one? One, two, three.Audience: You are not reading this. BL: All right. One, two, three. (Laughter) If you were Portuguese, right? How about this one? One, two, three. Audience: What are you reading? BL: What are you reading? There are no words there. I said, read what you're seeing. Right? It literally says, ""Wat ar ou rea in?"" (Laughter) Right? That's what you should have said. Right? Why is this? It's because perception is grounded in our experience. Right? The brain takes meaningless information and makes meaning out of it, which means we never see what's there, we never see information, we only ever see what was useful to see in the past. All right? Which means, when it comes to perception, we're all like this frog. (Laughter) Right? It's getting information. It's generating behavior that's useful. (Laughter) (Laughter) (Video) Man: Ow! Ow! (Laughter) (Applause) BL: And sometimes, when things don't go our way, we get a little bit annoyed, right? But we're talking about perception here, right? And perception underpins everything we think, we know, we believe, our hopes, our dreams, the clothes we wear, falling in love, everything begins with perception. Now if perception is grounded in our history, it means we're only ever responding according to what we've done before. But actually, it's a tremendous problem, because how can we ever see differently? Now, I want to tell you a story about seeing differently, and all new perceptions begin in the same way. They begin with a question. The problem with questions is they create uncertainty. Now, uncertainty is a very bad thing. It's evolutionarily a bad thing. If you're not sure that's a predator, it's too late. Okay? (Laughter) Even seasickness is a consequence of uncertainty. Right? If you go down below on a boat, your inner ears are you telling you you're moving. Your eyes, because it's moving in register with the boat, say I'm standing still. Your brain cannot deal with the uncertainty of that information, and it gets ill. The question ""why?"" is one of the most dangerous things you can do, because it takes you into uncertainty. And yet, the irony is, the only way we can ever do anything new is to step into that space. So how can we ever do anything new? Well fortunately, evolution has given us an answer, right? And it enables us to address even the most difficult of questions. The best questions are the ones that create the most uncertainty. They're the ones that question the things we think to be true already. Right? It's easy to ask questions about how did life begin, or what extends beyond the universe, but to question what you think to be true already is really stepping into that space. So what is evolution's answer to the problem of uncertainty? It's play. Now play is not simply a process. Experts in play will tell you that actually it's a way of being. Play is one of the only human endeavors where uncertainty is actually celebrated. Uncertainty is what makes play fun. Right? It's adaptable to change. Right? It opens possibility, and it's cooperative. It's actually how we do our social bonding, and it's intrinsically motivated. What that means is that we play to play. Play is its own reward. Now if you look at these five ways of being, these are the exact same ways of being you need in order to be a good scientist. Science is not defined by the method section of a paper. It's actually a way of being, which is here, and this is true for anything that is creative. So if you add rules to play, you have a game. That's actually what an experiment is. So armed with these two ideas, that science is a way of being and experiments are play, we asked, can anyone become a scientist? And who better to ask than 25 eight- to 10-year-old children? Because they're experts in play. So I took my bee arena down to a small school in Devon, and the aim of this was to not just get the kids to see science differently, but, through the process of science, to see themselves differently. Right? The first step was to ask a question. Now, I should say that we didn't get funding for this study because the scientists said small children couldn't make a useful contribution to science, and the teachers said kids couldn't do it. So we did it anyway. Right? Of course. So, here are some of the questions. I put them in small print so you wouldn't bother reading it. Point is that five of the questions that the kids came up with were actually the basis of science publication the last five to 15 years. Right? So they were asking questions that were significant to expert scientists. Now here, I want to share the stage with someone quite special. Right? She was one of the young people who was involved in this study, and she's now one of the youngest published scientists in the world. Right? She will now, once she comes onto stage, will be the youngest person to ever speak at TED. Right? Now, science and asking questions is about courage. Now she is the personification of courage, because she's going to stand up here and talk to you all. So Amy, would you please come up? (Applause) (Applause) So Amy's going to help me tell the story of what we call the Blackawton Bees Project, and first she's going to tell you the question that they came up with. So go ahead, Amy. Amy O'Toole: Thank you, Beau. We thought that it was easy to see the link between humans and apes in the way that we think, because we look alike. But we wondered if there's a possible link with other animals. It'd be amazing if humans and bees thought similar, since they seem so different from us. So we asked if humans and bees might solve complex problems in the same way. Really, we wanted to know if bees can also adapt themselves to new situations using previously learned rules and conditions. So what if bees can think like us? Well, it'd be amazing, since we're talking about an insect with only one million brain cells. But it actually makes a lot of sense they should, because bees, like us, can recognize a good flower regardless of the time of day, the light, the weather, or from any angle they approach it from. (Applause) BL: So the next step was to design an experiment, which is a game. So the kids went off and they designed this experiment, and so — well, game — and so, Amy, can you tell us what the game was, and the puzzle that you set the bees? AO: The puzzle we came up with was an if-then rule. We asked the bees to learn not just to go to a certain color, but to a certain color flower only when it's in a certain pattern. They were only rewarded if they went to the yellow flowers if the yellow flowers were surrounded by the blue, or if the blue flowers were surrounded by the yellow. Now there's a number of different rules the bees can learn to solve this puzzle. The interesting question is, which? What was really exciting about this project was we, and Beau, had no idea whether it would work. It was completely new, and no one had done it before, including adults. (Laughter) BL: Including the teachers, and that was really hard for the teachers. It's easy for a scientist to go in and not have a clue what he's doing, because that's what we do in the lab, but for a teacher not to know what's going to happen at the end of the day — so much of the credit goes to Dave Strudwick, who was the collaborator on this project. Okay? So I'm not going to go through the whole details of the study because actually you can read about it, but the next step is observation. So here are some of the students doing the observations. They're recording the data of where the bees fly. (Video) Dave Strudwick: So what we're going to do —Student: 5C. Dave Strudwick: Is she still going up here?Student: Yeah. Dave Strudwick: So you keep track of each.Student: Henry, can you help me here? BL: ""Can you help me, Henry?"" What good scientist says that, right? Student: There's two up there. And three in here. BL: Right? So we've got our observations. We've got our data. They do the simple mathematics, averaging, etc., etc. And now we want to share. That's the next step. So we're going to write this up and try to submit this for publication. Right? So we have to write it up. So we go, of course, to the pub. All right? (Laughter) The one on the left is mine, okay? (Laughter) Now, I tell them, a paper has four different sections: an introduction, a methods, a results, a discussion. The introduction says, what's the question and why? Methods, what did you do? Results, what was the observation? And the discussion is, who cares? Right? That's a science paper, basically. (Laughter) So the kids give me the words, right? I put it into a narrative, which means that this paper is written in kidspeak. It's not written by me. It's written by Amy and the other students in the class. As a consequence, this science paper begins, ""Once upon a time ... "" (Laughter) The results section, it says: ""Training phase, the puzzle ... duh duh duuuuuhhh."" Right? (Laughter) And the methods, it says, ""Then we put the bees into the fridge (and made bee pie),"" smiley face. Right? (Laughter) This is a science paper. We're going to try to get it published. So here's the title page. We have a number of authors there. All the ones in bold are eight to 10 years old. The first author is Blackawton Primary School, because if it were ever referenced, it would be ""Blackawton et al,"" and not one individual. So we submit it to a public access journal, and it says this. It said many things, but it said this. ""I'm afraid the paper fails our initial quality control checks in several different ways."" (Laughter) In other words, it starts off ""once upon a time,"" the figures are in crayon, etc. (Laughter) So we said, we'll get it reviewed. So I sent it to Dale Purves, who is at the National Academy of Science, one of the leading neuroscientists in the world, and he says, ""This is the most original science paper I have ever read"" — (Laughter) — ""and it certainly deserves wide exposure."" Larry Maloney, expert in vision, says, ""The paper is magnificent. The work would be publishable if done by adults."" So what did we do? We send it back to the editor. They say no. So we asked Larry and Natalie Hempel to write a commentary situating the findings for scientists, right, putting in the references, and we submit it to Biology Letters. And there, it was reviewed by five independent referees, and it was published. Okay? (Applause) (Applause) It took four months to do the science, two years to get it published. (Laughter) Typical science, actually, right? So this makes Amy and her friends the youngest published scientists in the world. What was the feedback like? Well, it was published two days before Christmas, downloaded 30,000 times in the first day, right? It was the Editors' Choice in Science, which is a top science magazine. It's forever freely accessible by Biology Letters. It's the only paper that will ever be freely accessible by this journal. Last year, it was the second-most downloaded paper by Biology Letters, and the feedback from not just scientists and teachers but the public as well. And I'll just read one. ""I have read 'Blackawton Bees' recently. I don't have words to explain exactly how I am feeling right now. What you guys have done is real, true and amazing. Curiosity, interest, innocence and zeal are the most basic and most important things to do science. Who else can have these qualities more than children? Please congratulate your children's team from my side."" So I'd like to conclude with a physical metaphor. Can I do it on you? (Laughter) Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, come on. Yeah yeah. Okay. Now, science is about taking risks, so this is an incredible risk, right? (Laughter) For me, not for him. Right? Because we've only done this once before. (Laughter) And you like technology, right? Shimon Schocken: Right, but I like myself. BL: This is the epitome of technology. Right. Okay. Now ... (Laughter) Okay. (Laughter) Now, we're going to do a little demonstration, right? You have to close your eyes, and you have to point where you hear me clapping. All right? (Clapping) (Clapping) Okay, how about if everyone over there shouts. One, two, three? Audience: (Shouts) (Laughter) (Shouts) (Laughter) Brilliant. Now, open your eyes. We'll do it one more time. Everyone over there shout. (Shouts) Where's the sound coming from? (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause) What's the point? The point is what science does for us. Right? We normally walk through life responding, but if we ever want to do anything different, we have to step into uncertainty. When he opened his eyes, he was able to see the world in a new way. That's what science offers us. It offers the possibility to step on uncertainty through the process of play, right? Now, true science education I think should be about giving people a voice and enabling to express that voice, so I've asked Amy to be the last voice in this short story. So, Amy? AO: This project was really exciting for me, because it brought the process of discovery to life, and it showed me that anyone, and I mean anyone, has the potential to discover something new, and that a small question can lead into a big discovery. Changing the way a person thinks about something can be easy or hard. It all depends on the way the person feels about change. But changing the way I thought about science was surprisingly easy. Once we played the games and then started to think about the puzzle, I then realized that science isn't just a boring subject, and that anyone can discover something new. You just need an opportunity. My opportunity came in the form of Beau, and the Blackawton Bee Project. Thank you.BL: Thank you very much. (Applause) (Applause)"	"Beau Lotto: 好的 這個遊戲非常簡單你們只要把你看到的東西唸出來就好了我會倒數 大家在一起唸出來就可以了 好 一 二 三 觀眾: Can you read this? 非常好。 那這一句呢? 一 二 三 觀眾: You are not reading this. 接下來 一 二 三 (笑聲)如果你是個葡萄牙人 對吧? 那這句呢? 一 二 三 觀眾: What are you reading? BL: 你們說What are you reading? 可是句子不是這樣寫的阿我說的是 把你們所看到的唸出來 對吧?如果照字面上來說應該是要念說""Wat ar ou rea in?"" 吧 (笑聲) 對吧?這才是你們剛剛應該說的吧? 對吧? 你們為什麼都會這樣讀呢? 那是因為我們的感官是建立在我們的經驗之上的對吧? 我們的大腦會把沒有意義的資訊自動轉換成有意義的東西 也就是說 我們從來不去看我們從不看新資訊而是把過去的經驗套用在現在發生的事上也就是說 當我們講到感官這件事我們就像是這隻青蛙一樣(笑聲)對吧? 它在讀取訊息 然後應用在它的行為上這就管用了吧 (笑聲)(笑聲) (影片) 男: 喔!喔! (笑聲) (掌聲) BL: 有的時候 當事情不順心的時候感覺有點燜 對吧?我們現在是在討論感官問題感官決定了一切我們所想的事 知道的事相信的事 希望 夢想 我們所穿的衣服談戀愛 每一件事都是從感官開始的如果感官是從以前的事開始建立的 那就表示我們只是在對我們之前所做過的事做出反應但是事實上 這是一個非常大的問題因為 我們沒辦法用不同角度去看事情了 現在 我要跟你們分享一個能轉換角度看事情的故事所有的新感官都是用同樣的方式開始他們都是從一個問句開始的而問句產生不確定感不確定感是個壞東西一個會改變的壞東西 就像是你不確定那是隻肉食動物 已經為時已晚了對吧? (笑聲)就連身體上的不舒服 也是由一連串的不確定所組成的對吧? 如果你上了一艘船 你的內耳所感覺到的告訴你你的人正在移動 然後你的眼睛所看到的是你站在船上所以沒有移動當你的大腦無法處理這些不確定感的時候暈船的情況就發生了""為什麼"" 這個問句 是你所能做到最危險的一件事因為它讓你對事情有不確定感但是 諷刺的是 踏出我們的舒服圈就是創新的唯一方法就是所以我們到底要怎麼創新? 還好 很幸運的演化的過程已經給了我們答案 對吧?演化讓我們能夠克服即使是最困難的問題所以通常最好的問題能夠產生最多的不確定感讓我們懷疑我們長久以來所相信的真相 對吧?問出像是 ""生命是如何開始的?"" 這種問句很簡單或者是 ""宇宙的外面到底有什麼?"" 但是真正去懷疑你所相信的事才會真正的踏入那片不確定感 那麼 進化給不確定感的答案是什麼呢?那就是 玩樂玩樂可不是一個簡單的過程 玩樂的專家可以告訴你為什麼因為這其實是一種存在的方式玩樂是一種讚頌不確定感的人類活動而不確定感能使玩樂變得有趣對吧? 它隨著適應而改變 對吧? 它開啟了各種的可能性它是合作的 事實上 我們的社會也是這樣連結的同時它是種本質上的動機我們為了玩而玩 而""玩樂"" 這件事本身就是個獎賞 現在大家看看五個存在的方式你會發現到要成為一個成功的科學家所需要的特質都是一樣的科學並不是用一紙就能定義的而是一種存在的方式 而它就在這裡也在所有有趣的東西身上當你在玩樂當中加上幾條規則 它就變成了遊戲而實驗就是這樣而來的 所以把兩個點子串起來科學是一種存在方式 而實驗是一種玩樂所以我想問 每一個人都能成科學家嗎?這個問題拿去問25個10歲小朋友再好不過了吧因為他們可是玩樂的專家 所以我帶著我蜜蜂的道具到了英國德文郡的一間小學校 而這件事的目的不只是讓孩子們能夠用不同的角度看待科學透過這個過程 更能使他們可以用不同的角度看自己 對吧? 第一步 就是提出一個問句 好 先說 我們的的研究計畫並沒有得到任何的贊助因為 科學家說 小朋友不可能做出什麽有用的科學貢獻連老師都不相信小朋友可以但是我們還是做了 對吧? 肯定的 這裡有一些他們提出的問題 我把字體縮小了所以你們不用費神去讀 重點是 這些他們提出的問題中有五個問題是基於過去5到15年來科學家所發表的基礎所以他們提出的問題對真正的科學家很重要 好現在 我要把舞台分享給一個特別的人 好嗎?她是其中一個是參與這項計畫的年輕人她同時也是世界是其中一個發表過研究刊物的年輕科學家當她站上這個舞台之後她就會成為史上最年輕在TED演講的人的好 科學和提出問題是需要勇氣的現在 她即將成為勇氣的化身因為她準備站上這個舞台並且跟大家分享艾咪 可以請你上台了嗎? (掌聲)(掌聲)艾咪 要幫我跟大家分享一個關於 ""Blackawton蜜蜂計畫"" 的故事首先 她要先分享 她們提出的問題開始吧 艾咪 艾咪: 謝謝 Beau我們當初懷疑我們能夠很簡單的看出人類跟人猿的關聯嗎?因為我們想 人類跟猿的長相是有點相近的吧所以我們又想 人類跟其他的動物是不是也有可能有些關聯如果蜜蜂跟人類能夠有一樣的想法那會是多麼奇妙的一件事啊因為兩者之間的長相實在是差別太大了我們進階猜想 人類跟蜜蜂是不是有可能用一樣的方式去解決一個複雜的問題真的 我們想知道蜜蜂是否能夠用他們先前的經驗去適應它們所遇到的新事情和新情況如果蜜蜂真的能夠像人類一樣思考呢?那就真的很神奇了吧我們正在討論的是只有一百萬個腦細胞的昆蟲耶不過它們也應該具有這樣的能力它們有能力透過時間 光線 天氣 來分辨一朵好花還能從任何一個角度去接近花朵 (掌聲) BL: 而下一步 就是開始設計這個實驗一個玩樂的實驗 所以孩子們開始設計實驗了又或是說 設計一個遊戲艾咪 你可以跟大家分享你們所設計的這個遊戲嗎?還有你們為蜜蜂所設計的關卡 艾咪? 我們想出的關卡是一個 ""如果-則"" 的規則我們要求蜜蜂學習不只是飛向特定的顏色而是特定顏色的花和特定的顏色圖案它們只有飛到黃色花朵的時候能被獎賞如果當黃色的花是被藍色的花包圍的時候又或是藍色的話被黃色的花包圍的時候現在有好幾條蜜蜂可以學習的規則使他們能夠解決這個關卡有趣的是 是哪一條規則呢但是這個實驗最刺激的地方就在於我們還有Beau都不知道這個實驗到底會不會成功這實驗是一個全新的點子 從來沒有人做過包括 ""大人們"" (笑聲) BL: 包括老師們 因為這個實驗對老師來說也是非常難對一個科學家來說 進到實驗室之後卻毫無頭緒是正常的因為這就是實驗室的一部份但是對於老師來說如果完全不知道每天結束都會發生什麼事的話...所以我們就把這個責任交給 Dave Strudwick也就是我們這個計畫的合作者我等等並不會直接講述這個研究的細節因為你們等等就會瞭解了 而下一個步驟就是觀察 這邊有幾個孩子正在做觀察 他們正在紀錄紀錄蜜蜂飛行的方向 (影片) Dave Strudwick: 所以我們現在要做的是?學生: 5C Dave Strudwick: 蜜蜂還正在往上飛嗎? 學生: 對 Dave Strudwick: 你們繼續觀察牠們飛行的方向喔學生: ""亨利 可以幫我一下嗎? "" BL: ""可以幫我一下嗎 亨利"" 好的科學家都是這樣說的 對吧? 學生: 這裡有兩隻蜜蜂那裏有三隻 BL: 看到了吧? 我們做完了觀察 也得到了數據他們做了一些簡單的數學運算 平均 等等等等所以我們想要分享我們的結果 這就是下一步了我們必須把結果寫成報告並且提交才能發表 對吧? 所以我們開始寫報告所以我們去了 當然 去了酒吧 (笑聲)左邊的那杯是我喝的 看到了吧 (笑聲) 我告訴他們 一份正式的報告應該有四個部分引言 方法 結論 討論引言的部分應該要提到 你們所提出的問題和理由方法, 你們做了什麼?結論, 你們觀察的結果最後是討論 不過誰在乎啊? 對吧基本上 這就是一份科學的報告 (笑聲) 所以孩子們給我這些字句 而我把這些字句寫成敘述文也就是說 這邊報告是用孩子們的口吻所寫的所以不是我寫的報告 是艾咪還有班上其他的孩子們一起寫的 所以這邊報告的第一句話是 ""從前從前..."" (笑聲)結論的部分寫了 ""難題 duh duh duuuuuhhh."" (笑聲)方法的部分則是寫了 ""然後我們把蜜蜂冰進冰箱裡""""然後做成蜜蜂派"" 還有加個笑臉 (笑聲)這可是一個科學報告 而我們希望能夠發表出來耶這是報告的封面 上面有這些小小作者的名字這些8到10歲的小朋友名列第一位作者的是 Blackawton 小學因為這樣子以後只要有人引注這份資料名字就會是 ""Blackawton小學等人""而不是任何一個個人然後我們將報告投稿到一個公共的期刊期刊說了好多事 但最重要的是 它說了這份研究報告恐怕沒有達到很多方面的最低標準(笑聲)換句話來說 這份報告是由 ""從前從前...""這句話開始的圖還是用蠟筆畫的 (笑聲) 於是我們說 我們會再拿去修改一下 所以我把報告寄給了Dale Purves一個國家科學研究院工作頂尖的神經學專家而他說 ""這是一份我看過最原汁原味的報告了"" (笑聲)""而它值得被更多人注意到""視覺專家Larry Maloney 說 ""這份報告實在是很了不起""如果這是一個成人做的研究 一定會被發表 於是我們做了什麼? 我們把報告拿回去給編輯不過他們還是不願意發表所以我們請了Larry還有Natalie Hempel請他們幫科學家們寫了情境評估放在引注資料裡 然後將它投稿到 <>它被五位獨立的評審審查之後它被發表了 (掌聲)(掌聲) 這個研究花了4個月完成卻花了兩年才被發表 (笑聲)典型的科學 對吧? 而這個發表使艾咪和她的朋友成為史上最年輕已發表的科學家那麼反應如何呢?嗯 那是在聖誕節前兩周發表的在第一天就被下載了三萬次它成為了有名的科學雜誌<>的編輯推薦<> 開放了它的永久免費分享這是<>唯一開放永久免費分享的一篇研究報告去年 這篇它成為了<>下載量第二的報告除了科學家和老師之外也得到了大眾的回饋我來唸一個吧 ""我讀了這篇Blackawton蜜蜂的報告""""我不知道如何用文字來形容我的感覺""""你們所做的事真實而且驚人""""對於科學來說最重要且基本的事就是""""好奇心 興趣 純真 與熱情""""誰能比孩子們擁有更多這些特質呢?""""請代我向這些孩子們說聲恭喜"" 我想用一個物理上的隱喻來做總結我能在你身上做這個實驗嗎? (笑聲)嗯 嗯 嗯 你來吧 好 好 好科學就是冒險 所以這是一個很好玩的實驗(笑聲)是對我來說而不是對他 對吧?因為這個實驗之前只做過一次你喜歡科技 對吧? Shimon Schocken: 對 但我更喜歡我自己 BL:這是一個科技的縮影 好現在... (笑聲)好了 (笑聲) 現在我們來做些示範吧 好嗎?請你把你的眼睛閉上然後指出掌聲是從哪個方向來的 可以嗎? (掌聲) (掌聲) 好 那 那邊的觀眾出聲音 一 二 三 觀眾: (觀眾聲音)(笑聲) (觀眾聲音) (笑聲) 太棒了 現在打開你的眼睛 我們再做一次那邊的觀眾出聲音 (觀眾聲音)聲音是從哪邊來的呢? (笑聲) (掌聲) 謝謝你的配合 (掌聲) 剛剛的重點是什麼? 重點是科學對我們做了什麼是吧? 我們通常只是機械式的對生活做出反應但如果我們想做些不一樣的事我們就需要踏出我們的舒適圈當他打開眼睛時他看事情的角度也不一樣了而這就是科學提供給我們的東西科學透過一連串的玩樂提供我們探索未知的機會 我想 真正的科學教育 應該是給人發聲並且擁有能力去實踐所以我請艾咪成為這演講最後的發言人艾咪? 艾咪: 這個研究計畫對我來說實在是太刺激了因為它讓探索的過程中真正融入生活中也讓我了解到 任何人 每一個人都有發現新事物的潛力對事情一個小小的疑問 最後就有可能變成一個巨大的發現改變對一個人本來對一件事情的想法可能簡單也又可能困難 而那取決於一個人對改變的看法但是 改變我對科學的看法 就是驚人的簡單從我們玩了一次遊戲然後想了如何設置蜜蜂的關卡我發現到 原來科學並不只是一個無聊的科目而是一個讓每個人都能夠發現新事情的東西你只是需要一個機會 而我的機會就是Beau 還有這個 Blackawton 蜜蜂計畫提供給我的 謝謝 BL: 謝謝大家 (掌聲) (掌聲)"
