Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_dunlap_talks_about_a_passionate_life	"""Jó napot, pacák"" Which, as somebody here must surely know, means ""What's up, guys?"" in Magyar, that peculiar non-Indo-European language spoken by Hungarians for which, given the fact that cognitive diversity is at least as threatened as biodiversity on this planet, few would have imagined much of a future even a century or two ago. But there it is: ""Jó napot, pacák"" I said somebody here must surely know, because despite the fact that there aren't that many Hungarians to begin with, and the further fact that, so far as I know, there's not a drop of Hungarian blood in my veins, at every critical juncture of my life there has been a Hungarian friend or mentor there beside me. I even have dreams that take place in landscapes I recognize as the landscapes of Hungarian films, especially the early movies of Miklos Jancso. So, how do I explain this mysterious affinity? Maybe it's because my native state of South Carolina, which is not much smaller than present-day Hungary, once imagined a future for itself as an independent country. And as a consequence of that presumption, my hometown was burned to the ground by an invading army, an experience that has befallen many a Hungarian town and village throughout its long and troubled history. Or maybe it's because when I was a teenager back in the '50s, my uncle Henry — having denounced the Ku Klux Klan and been bombed for his trouble and had crosses burned in his yard, living under death threat — took his wife and children to Massachusetts for safety and went back to South Carolina to face down the Klan alone. That was a very Hungarian thing to do, as anyone will attest who remembers 1956. And of course, from time to time Hungarians have invented their own equivalent of the Klan. Well, it seems to me that this Hungarian presence in my life is difficult to account for, but ultimately I ascribe it to an admiration for people with a complex moral awareness, with a heritage of guilt and defeat matched by defiance and bravado. It's not a typical mindset for most Americans, but it is perforce typical of virtually all Hungarians. So, ""Jó napot, pacák!"" I went back to South Carolina after some 15 years amid the alien corn at the tail end of the 1960s, with the reckless condescension of that era thinking I would save my people. Never mind the fact that they were slow to acknowledge they needed saving. I labored in that vineyard for a quarter century before making my way to a little kingdom of the just in upstate South Carolina, a Methodist-affiliated institution of higher learning called Wofford College. I knew nothing about Wofford and even less about Methodism, but I was reassured on the first day that I taught at Wofford College to find, among the auditors in my classroom, a 90-year-old Hungarian, surrounded by a bevy of middle-aged European women who seemed to function as an entourage of Rhinemaidens. His name was Sandor Teszler. He was a puckish widower whose wife and children were dead and whose grandchildren lived far away. In appearance, he resembled Mahatma Gandhi, minus the loincloth, plus orthopedic boots. He had been born in 1903 in the provinces of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire, in what later would become Yugoslavia. He was ostracized as a child, not because he was a Jew — his parents weren't very religious anyhow — but because he had been born with two club feet, a condition which, in those days, required institutionalization and a succession of painful operations between the ages of one and 11. He went to the commercial business high school as a young man in Budapest, and there he was as smart as he was modest and he enjoyed a considerable success. And after graduation when he went into textile engineering, the success continued. He built one plant after another. He married and had two sons. He had friends in high places who assured him that he was of great value to the economy. Once, as he had left instructions to have done, he was summoned in the middle of the night by the night watchman at one of his plants. The night watchman had caught an employee who was stealing socks — it was a hosiery mill, and he simply backed a truck up to the loading dock and was shoveling in mountains of socks. Mr. Teszler went down to the plant and confronted the thief and said, ""But why do you steal from me? If you need money you have only to ask."" The night watchman, seeing how things were going and waxing indignant, said, ""Well, we're going to call the police, aren't we?"" But Mr. Teszler answered, ""No, that will not be necessary. He will not steal from us again."" Well, maybe he was too trusting, because he stayed where he was long after the Nazi Anschluss in Austria and even after the arrests and deportations began in Budapest. He took the simple precaution of having cyanide capsules placed in lockets that could be worn about the necks of himself and his family. And then one day, it happened: he and his family were arrested and they were taken to a death house on the Danube. In those early days of the Final Solution, it was handcrafted brutality; people were beaten to death and their bodies tossed into the river. But none who entered that death house had ever come out alive. And in a twist you would not believe in a Steven Spielberg film — the Gauleiter who was overseeing this brutal beating was the very same thief who had stolen socks from Mr. Teszler's hosiery mill. It was a brutal beating. And midway through that brutality, one of Mr. Teszler's sons, Andrew, looked up and said, ""Is it time to take the capsule now, Papa?"" And the Gauleiter, who afterwards vanishes from this story, leaned down and whispered into Mr. Teszler's ear, ""No, do not take the capsule. Help is on the way."" And then resumed the beating. But help was on the way, and shortly afterwards a car arrived from the Swiss Embassy. They were spirited to safety. They were reclassified as Yugoslav citizens and they managed to stay one step ahead of their pursuers for the duration of the War, surviving burnings and bombings and, at the end of the War, arrest by the Soviets. Probably, Mr. Teszler had gotten some money into Swiss bank accounts because he managed to take his family first to Great Britain, then to Long Island and then to the center of the textile industry in the American South. Which, as chance would have it, was Spartanburg, South Carolina, the location of Wofford College. And there, Mr. Teszler began all over again and once again achieved immense success, especially after he invented the process for manufacturing a new fabric called double-knit. And then in the late 1950s, in the aftermath of Brown v. Board of Education, when the Klan was resurgent all over the South, Mr. Teszler said, ""I have heard this talk before."" And he called his top assistant to him and asked, ""Where would you say, in this region, racism is most virulent?"" ""Well, I don't rightly know, Mr. Teszler. I reckon that would be Kings Mountain."" ""Good. Buy us some land in Kings Mountain and announce we are going to build a major plant there."" The man did as he was told, and shortly afterwards, Mr. Teszler received a visit from the white mayor of Kings Mountain. Now, you should know that at that time, the textile industry in the South was notoriously segregated. The white mayor visited Mr. Teszler and said, ""Mr. Teszler, I trust you’re going to be hiring a lot of white workers."" Mr. Teszler told him, ""You bring me the best workers that you can find, and if they are good enough, I will hire them."" He also received a visit from the leader of the black community, a minister, who said, ""Mr. Teszler, I sure hope you're going to hire some black workers for this new plant of yours."" He got the same answer: ""You bring the best workers that you can find, and if they are good enough, I will hire them."" As it happens, the black minister did his job better than the white mayor, but that's neither here or there. Mr. Teszler hired 16 men: eight white, eight black. They were to be his seed group, his future foremen. He had installed the heavy equipment for his new process in an abandoned store in the vicinity of Kings Mountain, and for two months these 16 men would live and work together, mastering the new process. He gathered them together after an initial tour of that facility and he asked if there were any questions. There was hemming and hawing and shuffling of feet, and then one of the white workers stepped forward and said, ""Well, yeah. We’ve looked at this place and there's only one place to sleep, there's only one place to eat, there's only one bathroom, there's only one water fountain. Is this plant going to be integrated or what?"" Mr. Teszler said, ""You are being paid twice the wages of any other textile workers in this region and this is how we do business. Do you have any other questions?"" ""No, I reckon I don't."" And two months later when the main plant opened and hundreds of new workers, white and black, poured in to see the facility for the first time, they were met by the 16 foremen, white and black, standing shoulder to shoulder. They toured the facility and were asked if there were any questions, and inevitably the same question arose: ""Is this plant integrated or what?"" And one of the white foremen stepped forward and said, ""You are being paid twice the wages of any other workers in this industry in this region and this is how we do business. Do you have any other questions?"" And there were none. In one fell swoop, Mr. Teszler had integrated the textile industry in that part of the South. It was an achievement worthy of Mahatma Gandhi, conducted with the shrewdness of a lawyer and the idealism of a saint. In his eighties, Mr. Teszler, having retired from the textile industry, adopted Wofford College, auditing courses every semester, and because he had a tendency to kiss anything that moved, becoming affectionately known as ""Opi"" — which is Magyar for grandfather — by all and sundry. Before I got there, the library of the college had been named for Mr. Teszler, and after I arrived in 1993, the faculty decided to honor itself by naming Mr. Teszler Professor of the College — partly because at that point he had already taken all of the courses in the catalog, but mainly because he was so conspicuously wiser than any one of us. To me, it was immensely reassuring that the presiding spirit of this little Methodist college in upstate South Carolina was a Holocaust survivor from Central Europe. Wise he was, indeed, but he also had a wonderful sense of humor. And once for an interdisciplinary class, I was screening the opening segment of Ingmar Bergman's ""The Seventh Seal."" As the medieval knight Antonius Block returns from the wild goose chase of the Crusades and arrives on the rocky shore of Sweden, only to find the specter of death waiting for him, Mr. Teszler sat in the dark with his fellow students. And as death opened his cloak to embrace the knight in a ghastly embrace, I heard Mr. Teszler's tremulous voice: ""Uh oh,"" he said, ""This doesn't look so good."" (Laughter) But it was music that was his greatest passion, especially opera. And on the first occasion that I visited his house, he gave me honor of deciding what piece of music we would listen to. And I delighted him by rejecting ""Cavalleria Rusticana"" in favor of Bela Bartok's ""Bluebeard's Castle."" I love Bartok's music, as did Mr. Teszler, and he had virtually every recording of Bartok's music ever issued. And it was at his house that I heard for the first time Bartok's Third Piano Concerto and learned from Mr. Teszler that it had been composed in nearby Asheville, North Carolina in the last year of the composer's life. He was dying of leukemia and he knew it, and he dedicated this concerto to his wife, Dita, who was herself a concert pianist. And into the slow, second movement, marked ""adagio religioso,"" he incorporated the sounds of birdsong that he heard outside his window in what he knew would be his last spring; he was imagining a future for her in which he would play no part. And clearly this composition is his final statement to her — it was first performed after his death — and through her to the world. And just as clearly, it is saying, ""It's okay. It was all so beautiful. Whenever you hear this, I will be there."" It was only after Mr. Teszler's death that I learned that the marker on the grave of Bela Bartok in Hartsdale, New York was paid for by Sandor Teszler. ""Jó napot, Bela!"" Not long before Mr. Teszler’s own death at the age of 97, he heard me hold forth on human iniquity. I delivered a lecture in which I described history as, on the whole, a tidal wave of human suffering and brutality, and Mr. Teszler came up to me afterwards with gentle reproach and said, ""You know, Doctor, human beings are fundamentally good."" And I made a vow to myself, then and there, that if this man who had such cause to think otherwise had reached that conclusion, I would not presume to differ until he released me from my vow. And now he's dead, so I'm stuck with my vow. ""Jó napot, Sandor!"" I thought my skein of Hungarian mentors had come to an end, but almost immediately I met Francis Robicsek, a Hungarian doctor — actually a heart surgeon in Charlotte, North Carolina, then in his late seventies — who had been a pioneer in open-heart surgery, and, tinkering away in his garage behind his house, had invented many of the devices that are standard parts of those procedures. He's also a prodigious art collector, beginning as an intern in Budapest by collecting 16th- and 17th-century Dutch art and Hungarian painting, and when he came to this country moving on to Spanish colonial art, Russian icons and finally Mayan ceramics. He's the author of seven books, six of them on Mayan ceramics. It was he who broke the Mayan codex, enabling scholars to relate the pictographs on Mayan ceramics to the hieroglyphs of the Mayan script. On the occasion of my first visit, we toured his house and we saw hundreds of works of museum quality, and then we paused in front of a closed door and Dr. Robicsek said, with obvious pride, ""Now for the piece De resistance."" And he opened the door and we walked into a windowless 20-by-20-foot room with shelves from floor to ceiling, and crammed on every shelf his collection of Mayan ceramics. Now, I know absolutely nothing about Mayan ceramics, but I wanted to be as ingratiating as possible so I said, ""But Dr. Robicsek, this is absolutely dazzling."" ""Yes,"" he said. ""That is what the Louvre said. They would not leave me alone until I let them have a piece, but it was not a good one."" (Laughter) Well, it occurred to me that I should invite Dr. Robicsek to lecture at Wofford College on — what else? — Leonardo da Vinci. And further, I should invite him to meet my oldest trustee, who had majored in French history at Yale some 70-odd years before and, at 89, still ruled the world's largest privately owned textile empire with an iron hand. His name is Roger Milliken. And Mr. Milliken agreed, and Dr. Robicsek agreed. And Dr. Robicsek visited and delivered the lecture and it was a dazzling success. And afterwards we convened at the President's House with Dr. Robicsek on one hand, Mr. Milliken on the other. And it was only at that moment, as we were sitting down to dinner, that I recognized the enormity of the risk I had created, because to bring these two titans, these two masters of the universe together — it was like introducing Mothra to Godzilla over the skyline of Tokyo. If they didn't like each other, we could all get trampled to death. But they did, they did like each other. They got along famously until the very end of the meal, and then they got into a furious argument. And what they were arguing about was this: whether the second Harry Potter movie was as good as the first. (Laughter) Mr. Milliken said it was not. Dr. Robicsek disagreed. I was still trying to take in the notion that these titans, these masters of the universe, in their spare time watch Harry Potter movies, when Mr. Milliken thought he would win the argument by saying, ""You just think it's so good because you didn't read the book."" And Dr. Robicsek reeled back in his chair, but quickly gathered his wits, leaned forward and said, ""Well, that is true, but I'll bet you went to the movie with a grandchild."" ""Well, yes, I did,"" conceded Mr. Milliken. ""Aha!"" said Dr. Robicsek. ""I went to the movie all by myself."" (Laughter) (Applause) And I realized, in this moment of revelation, that what these two men were revealing was the secret of their extraordinary success, each in his own right. And it lay precisely in that insatiable curiosity, that irrepressible desire to know, no matter what the subject, no matter what the cost, even at a time when the keepers of the Doomsday Clock are willing to bet even money that the human race won't be around to imagine anything in the year 2100, a scant 93 years from now. ""Live each day as if it is your last,"" said Mahatma Gandhi. ""Learn as if you'll live forever."" This is what I'm passionate about. It is precisely this. It is this inextinguishable, undaunted appetite for learning and experience, no matter how risible, no matter how esoteric, no matter how seditious it might seem. This defines the imagined futures of our fellow Hungarians — Robicsek, Teszler and Bartok — as it does my own. As it does, I suspect, that of everybody here. To which I need only add, ""Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves."" This is our task; we know it will be hard. ""Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves. Jó napot, pacák!"" (Applause)"	"""Yo napot, pacak!"" 在座一定有人知道,在匈牙利語是""大家好""的意思這種罕見的非印歐語系的語言來自匈牙利事實上認知多樣性與生物多樣性在這地球上受到同樣的威脅一兩世紀以前很少人會想像未來是如何的但我們還是可以聽到""大家好""我剛剛說在座一定有人知道,因為事實上匈牙利不是一個人口眾多得民族而且就我所知，我完全沒有匈牙利的血统，但在我生命中重要的時候都會有一位匈牙利朋友和導師，在我後面支持我。我甚至會夢到匈牙利的風景我在匈牙利電影中得景象，特别是那些Miklos Jancso早期的電影。 我要如何和解釋這些神奇得關係呢？也許這是我來是南卡羅來納州，他的面積與現在匈牙利相當，我曾經想像未來他會成為一個獨立的國家跟這樣得結果推測，我的家鄉被軍人夷為平地許多匈牙利的城鎮香村，在漫長得歷史上，也受過外敵入侵，也有過這樣糟糕的經驗。或又在那五十年代，當我還是十幾來歲時，我的叔叔亨利，曾被3K黨譴折過和受到攻擊及在他的後院燃燒十字架，在生活中充滿死亡的威脅，為了安全的考量帶著他的妻子和小孩到麻州之後一個人回到南卡羅納州對抗3K黨。那是ㄧ種很匈牙利的行為，任何記的1956年的人都可以證明。當然，匈牙利人有時候也組成相當於3K黨的組織 這對我來說匈牙利人一直都存在我得生命中這很難去計算的，最終我把他歸為複雜的道德意識的欽佩他們繼承內就與失敗，卻同時戴著藐視及勇氣。這不是大部分美國人心態但這卻是匈牙利典型的心態。所以，""Yo napot, pacak!"" 我在約15年後從異鄉返回到南卡邏萊納州，那是在60年代後期，懷抱著那個年代的魯莽和自以爲是，心想我會拯救自己的同胞，也不管他們很遲才會承認他們需要被拯救。我在那個葡萄園勞作過四分之一個世紀，前往南卡羅萊納州北部的一個小王國，壹所名爲Wofford College的衛理公會附屬高等教育機構。我對Wofford壹無所知，對衛理公會更是毫無概念，但是在我任教Wofford College的第一天，我就感到放心，我在教室裏的旁聽者中發現，一位90高齡的匈牙利人，被一群中年歐洲婦女圍繞，她們就像一群隨從的萊茵河少女。 他名叫Sandor Teszler。他是個淘氣的人，他的妻兒都已離世了而他的孫子又住得很遠的地方。他的外表看起來就像甘地...只是少了遮羞布，和多了矯形靴子。他出生在1903年的奧匈帝國，他出生的省份，後來會成爲南斯拉夫。他自小就被排斥，而那不是因為他是猶太人...不管怎麽說他的父母也不是虔誠的猶太教徒...他被排斥是因爲他天生雙足畸形，在那個年代，像他這樣的小孩必須送進治療院，必須在1歲到11歲接受痛苦的治療。他年輕時到布達佩斯上商業專科學校，他是個聰明謙虛的學生，在學校裏相當的成功，畢業以後，他進入紡織行業，同樣獲得了成功。他蓋了一家又一家的工廠，結了婚，生了兩個小孩。他有身居高位的朋友，使他確信自己對經濟有很大的價值貢獻。 有一次，順著他的指示，他壹間工廠的夜間看守人在半夜把他召去。那個夜間看守人逮到了一個偷襪子的工人...那是個針織廠，那個工人把卡車退到裝卸口在那裏鏟起堆積成山的襪子。Mr. Teszler 走下工場面對小偷說，為什麼妳要偷我的東西呢？如果妳需要錢的話晚上值班的保全，憤怒的看了整件事情得經過，他說我們是否該叫警察來呢？但Mr. Teszler 說不了不需要。他不會偷我們的東西了。 也許他太相信他人了，因為，德國納粹住進奧地利一段時間還留在奧地利不走，甚至有些Budapest的人民被拘留和流放。Mr. Teszler 早已準備好氫氧化物在身邊。以被他合家人不實之需。然後，有一天事情真得發生了：他和他的家人被抓了，他們被帶到多瑙河旁的死亡之屋，幾天前這裡的情況是慘不人睹人們被打死後，師體直接被丟到河裡面—而進入死亡之屋的人們幾乎沒有一格人存活。而情況的轉折比電影還要戲劇化，監督這頓毒打的（納粹德國）長官，竟然就是當初Teszler先生針織廠裏的的那個偷襪賊.被慘忍得暴行酷刑， Mr. Teszler's 的一個兒子 Andrew看不下去，Andrew看著父親說，走的時間到了喔，父親?納粹黨就從這裡離開了，那賊已躺在那小聲的對 Mr. Teszler說別走，救援馬上就到了，然後毒打繼續。 救援正在趕來的路上一台從瑞士的大使來了。他把他們帶到一個安全的地方。他們重新的規劃南斯拉夫，在這戰真時期，他們比追兵提早一步管理這裡的一些爆炸知後的生還者在戰爭結束時，Mr. Teszler被俄軍逮捕了。因該是他在瑞士有大筆的存款因為他和他的家人都逃到英國去了，之後到長島，然後到美國南部紡織廠非常巧合的是，他到的就是南卡羅那纳州的斯帕坦堡就是在 Wofford大學的所在處。在這裡，Mr. Teszler 他又重新開始，並且有獲得了成功，特別的是他又發明了一項產品叫做雙針織品 在1950末，布朗教育委員會案的影響下，3K黨又在南邊復興了Mr. Teszler說""我已經聽說了""他問他的高級助理，妳說哪裡是種族歧視最嚴重的地方？恩...Mr.Teszler我不確定耶.有可能是Kings山很好，到Kings山那買ㄧ些地，然後宣布我們要在那蓋大房子。住裡把事情都除裡好，沒多久Mr. Teszler就接受Kings山的白人市長邀請。妳知道那個年代南部的紡織業種族歧視非常的嚴重那白人市長對 Mr. Teszler 說，我相信妳因該會雇用很多白種人當工人Mr. Teszler 跟他說，妳把這裡最好的工人給我找來如果他們都很優秀，我會雇用他們，Mr. Teszler 也受到了黑人社區領導人的邀請，有一個部長說Mr. Teszler我相信妳會去雇用ㄧ些黑人工作者。他跟他說，把妳這最好的工人給帶來，如果他們都很優秀的話，我會雇用他們。事實上黑人部長比白人市長能幹，但他們勢均力敵。Mr.Teszler雇用了16個男人，8個白人，8個黑人。 他們會成為以後的組長公司的核心。他們引進了大型機器在在Kings山附近的廢棄工廠，接下來兩隔月我要這16個人一起工作一起生活，熟悉這心得工作Mr.Teszler 把他們及合在一起問他們有沒有什麼疑問。這些工人欲言又止終於有ㄧ位站出來說白人說恩..我們被關在這個地方—睡覺的地方只有一個，吃東西的地方和廁所也只有一個，也只有一個飲水的地方，這間工廠是要給我們隔離起來嗎？Mr. Teszler 說你們在這已經拿了別人兩倍的薪水了我們就是這樣晚裡的，還有什麼問題呢？我覺得沒有了。兩個月過後，開始營業有上百位的黑人白人的員工，蜂擁而至這家工廠來參觀，他們看見有16位工頭，白人和黑人，並肩作戰。他們參觀設施，然後提出了問題。不可避免得是發生了，還是同樣的問題是為了把他們聚在一起，還是有其他原因？有一個工頭向前一步說，你們在這裡可以拿到普通工人的兩倍薪資我們就是這樣管理的。你還有什麼問題嗎？ 沒有人有問題了，Mr. Teszler 改善了當地紡織業特有的種族隔離制度。他達到的效益比甘地還要大，兼具了律師的智慧和理想主義者。當Mr. Teszler80歲時他從紡織工業退休了，到Wofford大學去學習，每個學期都去旁聽，他總是對人事非常輕切的，非常受歡迎，大家稱他為Opi -匈牙利語是祖父的意思，我到Wofford大學時，那裡的圖書館就是以Mr. Teszler命名的。當1993年我在次回到Wofford大學全校教師決定稱 Mr. Teszler 教授。因為他已經拿完全部的課程，但主要還是他非常的有智慧。對我來說這是很大的鼓勵精神支柱對於南卡羅來纳州偏僻地區有一個歐洲大屠殺倖存下來的，他是ㄧ聰明的人，同時也是非常的幽默。有一次跨科學的課程，正在播放 英格瑪·伯格曼“第七封印”片段骑士布洛克從十字軍東征回到故土到了瑞典的礁石岸，直到他遇到死亡者靈魂Mr. Teszler合他得同學坐在暗處。當死亡的斗篷包圍騎士時，當黑暗壟罩時，我聽見Mr. Teszler's顫抖的聲音：喔，喔，他說情況不妙了。 Mr. Teszler's 最喜歡音樂了，尤其是歌劇，當我第一次到Mr. Teszler家時，他就請我選我想聽的音樂，我沒有選 ""Cavalerria Rusticana""而選了Bela Bartok 的 ""Bluebeard's Castle.""我和 Mr. Teszler都喜愛 Bartok音樂他幾乎收集完所有Bartok的音樂就是在他家我第一次聽到Bartok的第三鋼琴協奏曲Mr. Teszler知道他在南卡羅萊納寫譜的，當他在人生的最後他知道他換了白血病而且時間不多了，他譜了這首曲子給了他的太太Dita，他太太是鋼琴演奏家。在緩慢的第二章 ""adagio religioso,"" 中他把小鳥叫融入了音樂中，那時他知道哪將會是他最後一個春天。他想像以後妻子沒有他的未來，這首曲子將會是最後跟妻子的告白，這將會在他死後才會演奏出來，通過她的妻子傳到世界去。這好像是說，事情沒有這麼糟，世界依然美好。當你聽到著首歌，我依然在你身邊。 Mr. Teszler先生死後我才得知。Bela Bartok 在New York 的Hartsdale正的墓碑是Teszler捐住的""Yo napot, Bela!""不久之後Mr. Teszler’s 97歲過世，他聽我說人性是本是邪惡的，在一次的演講我把歷史描述的人類是製造痛苦的和暴力的，Mr. Teszler走到我面前溫柔又帶指責的跟我說，你知道嗎，博士，人類本性是善良的。我對自己發誓如果這個人有什麼想法我會支持他的言論，除非他有錯，不然我不會違背誓言。他已經過世了，但我還是堅持諾言。""Yo napot, Sandor!"" 我以為我跟匈牙利人得緣份就到這裡了，我馬上就認識了匈牙利的醫生Francis Robicsek他是ㄧ名心臟外科醫生，他年紀已經近80了他是心臟外科手術的先鋒，我見到他時他正在他家後面的倉庫修理車，他發明了許多裝置驅動的東西。她那時還是一個實習生，他收了16到17世紀的荷蘭藝術品和匈牙利的油畫，他還到美國收集西班牙殖民時的藝術品，俄國的硬幣，瑪雅的陶瓷。他一共有7本書6本跟瑪雅陶瓷文化有關的，他打破了瑪雅人的法規，讓學者能夠將雅瑪陶瓷上的象形文及雅瑪人的手寫文關係在一起 當我第一次拜訪他家時他帶我參觀上百件博物館等級的收藏品，我們在參觀時他突然停在一扇門前驕傲的說讓我們來無價之寶。我們打開門，走了近去看見了沒有窗戶20*20英呎的房間櫃子從地面上到天花板，櫃子裡集滿了瑪雅文化的陶瓷品。當然我對瑪雅文化陶瓷一無所知，我跟博士說我很樂意去了解，博士這真得太壯觀了，沒錯，聯羅浮宮的專家也這麼說。他們一直纏著我直到我送他們一件物品，但那不是一件好的陶瓷品 我想我因該邀請Dr. Robicsek到Wofford大學去做一個演講，有關...？我因該把達芬奇介紹給你，他是我的老朋友，他在耶魯主修法國歷史70年到89年還是紡織廠的巨頭。他的名子是 Roger Milliken和Milliken先生，Dr. Robicsek同意見面了，也同意了演講，那是一場精彩很成功的演講。之後我們在校長室見面和Mr. Milliken和Dr. Robicsek我們一起坐下來吃飯時，我才突然發現這是多麼有風險的事情因為我把世界兩大巨頭邀請一起吃飯，舉例來說把Mothra 和 Godzilla 帶到東京來。如果他們互相不喜歡，我就無疑了， 但他們沒有，他們互相喜歡他們一直相處得很好，直到用餐即將結束，他們爭論了起來，他們爭論的事情是：第二集的哈利波特沒有比第一集的好看，Mr. Milliken這樣覺得，但Mr. Milliken不覺得。我納悶得想，難道這兩位巨頭空閒時都在看哈利波特？Mr. Milliken 的說詞站了上風但你覺的第二部不錯是因為你沒有看過原作。Dr. Robicsek暈眩所以回到他的做位，但他很快的恢復他的智慧，他斜斜的向前傾說，我的確沒有看過，但我敢跟你打賭你因該是跟你的孫子一起去看的，Mr. Milliken承認說他是跟孫子一起看的。哈! Dr. Robicsek說我都是一個人去看的。 我突然我意識到這個啟示，他們互相的接漏秘密是使得成就的方法。以永不滿足的好奇心無論如何，任何事務，不論付出多少，就算是世界末世的管理者也願意力一搏，但人們無法左右也無法想像2100的樣子。甘地說活在當下把每一天都當作最後一天學習你將會有永遠的活著這就是我得熱情所在。一種知識不畏畏懼學習和經驗，不管多滑稽，不管多難理解，不管看起來有多煽動性這決定了匈牙利想像中的未來，Robicsek 和 Teszler 和 Bartok 和我都是這樣的。我想在做的各位因該也是這樣。 我想說""Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves.""我們都知道這個任務很難達成。""Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves."" Yo napot, pacak!"
