Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_saunders_to_the_south_pole_and_back_the_hardest_105_days_of_my_life	"So in the oasis of  intelligentsia that is TED, I stand here before you this evening as an expert in dragging heavy stuff around cold places. I've been leading polar expeditions  for most of my adult life, and last month, my teammate  Tarka L'Herpiniere and I finished the most ambitious  expedition I've ever attempted. In fact, it feels like I've been transported straight here from four months in the middle of nowhere, mostly grunting and swearing,  straight to the TED stage. So you can imagine that's a transition that hasn't been entirely seamless. One of the interesting side effects seems to be that my short-term memory is entirely shot. So I've had to write some notes to avoid too much grunting and swearing in the next 17 minutes. This is the first talk I've given about this expedition, and while we weren't sequencing genomes or building space telescopes, this is a story about giving everything we had to achieve something that hadn't been done before. So I hope in that you might  find some food for thought. It was a journey, an  expedition in Antarctica, the coldest, windiest, driest and highest altitude continent on Earth. It's a fascinating place. It's a huge place. It's twice the size of Australia, a continent that is the same size as China and India put together. As an aside, I have experienced an interesting phenomenon in the last few days, something that I expect Chris Hadfield may get at TED in a few years' time, conversations that go something like this: ""Oh, Antarctica. Awesome. My husband and I did Antarctica with Lindblad for our anniversary."" Or, ""Oh cool, did you go there for the marathon?"" (Laughter) Our journey was, in fact, 69 marathons back to back in 105 days, an 1,800-mile round trip on foot from the coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again. In the process, we broke the record for the longest human-powered polar journey in history by more than 400 miles. (Applause) For those of you from the Bay Area, it was the same as walking from  here to San Francisco, then turning around and walking back again. So as camping trips go, it was a long one, and one I've seen summarized  most succinctly here on the hallowed pages  of Business Insider Malaysia. [""Two Explorers Just Completed A Polar Expedition  That Killed Everyone The Last Time It Was Attempted""] Chris Hadfield talked so eloquently about fear and about the odds of success, and indeed the odds of survival. Of the nine people in history that had attempted this journey before us, none had made it to the pole and back, and five had died in the process. This is Captain Robert Falcon Scott. He led the last team to attempt this expedition. Scott and his rival Sir Ernest Shackleton, over the space of a decade, both led expeditions battling to become the first to reach the South Pole, to chart and map the interior of Antarctica, a place we knew less about, at the time, than the surface of the moon, because we could see the moon through telescopes. Antarctica was, for the most part, a century ago, uncharted. Some of you may know the story. Scott's last expedition, the  Terra Nova Expedition in 1910, started as a giant siege-style approach. He had a big team using ponies, using dogs, using petrol-driven tractors, dropping multiple, pre-positioned depots of food and fuel through which Scott's final team of five would travel to the Pole, where they would turn around and ski  back to the coast again on foot. Scott and his final team of five arrived at the South Pole  in January 1912 to find they had been beaten to it by a Norwegian team led by Roald Amundsen, who rode on dogsled. Scott's team ended up on foot. And for more than a century this journey has remained unfinished. Scott's team of five died  on the return journey. And for the last decade, I've been asking myself why that is. How come this has remained  the high-water mark? Scott's team covered 1,600 miles on foot. No one's come close to that ever since. So this is the high-water mark  of human endurance, human endeavor,  human athletic achievement in arguably the harshest climate on Earth. It was as if the marathon record has remained unbroken since 1912. And of course some strange and  predictable combination of curiosity, stubbornness, and probably hubris led me to thinking I might be the man to try to finish the job. Unlike Scott's expedition, there were just two of us, and we set off from the coast of Antarctica in October last year, dragging everything ourselves, a process Scott called ""man-hauling."" When I say it was like walking from here to San Francisco and back, I actually mean it was like dragging something that weighs a shade more than the heaviest ever NFL player. Our sledges weighed 200 kilos, or 440 pounds each at the start, the same weights that the weakest of Scott's ponies pulled. Early on, we averaged 0.5 miles per hour. Perhaps the reason no one had  attempted this journey until now, in more than a century, was that no one had been quite stupid enough to try. And while I can't claim we were exploring in the genuine Edwardian sense of the word — we weren't naming any mountains or mapping any uncharted valleys — I think we were stepping into uncharted territory in a human sense. Certainly, if in the future we learn there is an area of the human brain that lights up when one curses oneself, I won't be at all surprised. You've heard that the average American spends 90 percent of their time indoors. We didn't go indoors for nearly four months. We didn't see a sunset either. It was 24-hour daylight. Living conditions were quite spartan. I changed my underwear  three times in 105 days and Tarka and I shared  30 square feet on the canvas. Though we did have some technology that Scott could never have imagined. And we blogged live every evening from the tent via a laptop and a custom-made satellite transmitter, all of which were solar-powered: we had a flexible photovoltaic panel over the tent. And the writing was important to me. As a kid, I was inspired by the  literature of adventure and exploration, and I think we've all seen here this week the importance and  the power of storytelling. So we had some 21st-century gear, but the reality is that the  challenges that Scott faced were the same that we faced: those of the weather and of  what Scott called glide, the amount of friction between the sledges and the snow. The lowest wind chill  we experienced was in the -70s, and we had zero visibility, what's called white-out, for much of our journey. We traveled up and down one of the largest and most dangerous glaciers in the world, the Beardmore glacier. It's 110 miles long; most of its surface is what's called blue ice. You can see it's a beautiful,  shimmering steel-hard blue surface covered with thousands  and thousands of crevasses, these deep cracks in the glacial ice  up to 200 feet deep. Planes can't land here, so we were at the most risk, technically, when we had the slimmest chance of being rescued. We got to the South Pole after 61 days on foot, with one day off for bad weather, and I'm sad to say, it was something of an anticlimax. There's a permanent American base, the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station at the South Pole. They have an airstrip, they have a canteen, they have hot showers, they have a post office, a tourist shop, a basketball court that doubles as a movie theater. So it's a bit different these days, and there are also acres of junk. I think it's a marvelous thing that humans can exist 365 days of the year with hamburgers and hot showers and movie theaters, but it does seem to produce a lot of empty cardboard boxes. You can see on the left of  this photograph, several square acres of junk waiting to be flown out from the South Pole. But there is also a pole at the South Pole, and we got there on foot, unassisted, unsupported, by the hardest route, 900 miles in record time, dragging more weight than anyone in history. And if we'd stopped there  and flown home, which would have been the eminently sensible thing to do, then my talk would end here and it would end something like this. If you have the right team around you, the right tools, the right technology, and if you have enough self-belief and enough determination, then anything is possible. But then we turned around, and this is where things get interesting. High on the Antarctic plateau, over 10,000 feet, it's very windy, very cold, very dry, we were exhausted. We'd covered 35 marathons, we were only halfway, and we had a safety net, of course, of ski planes and satellite phones and live, 24-hour tracking beacons that didn't exist for Scott, but in hindsight, rather than making our lives easier, the safety net actually allowed us to cut things very fine indeed, to sail very close to our absolute limits as human beings. And it is an exquisite form of torture to exhaust yourself to the point of starvation day after day while dragging a sledge full of food. For years, I'd been writing glib lines in sponsorship proposals about pushing the limits of human endurance, but in reality, that was  a very frightening place to be indeed. We had, before we'd got to the Pole, two weeks of almost permanent headwind, which slowed us down. As a result, we'd had several days of eating half rations. We had a finite amount of food in the sledges to make this journey, so we were trying to string that out by reducing our intake to half  the calories we should have been eating. As a result, we both became increasingly hypoglycemic — we had low blood sugar  levels day after day — and increasingly susceptible to the extreme cold. Tarka took this photo of me one evening after I'd nearly passed out with hypothermia. We both had repeated bouts of hypothermia, something I hadn't experienced before, and it was very humbling indeed. As much as you might like to think, as I do, that you're the kind of person who doesn't quit, that you'll go down swinging, hypothermia doesn't leave you much choice. You become utterly incapacitated. It's like being a drunk toddler. You become pathetic. I remember just wanting to lie down and quit. It was a peculiar, peculiar feeling, and a real surprise to me to be debilitated to that degree. And then we ran out of food completely, 46 miles short of the first of the depots that we'd laid on our outward journey. We'd laid 10 depots of food, literally burying food and fuel, for our return journey — the fuel was for a cooker so you could melt snow to get water — and I was forced to make the decision to call for a resupply flight, a ski plane carrying eight days of food to tide us over that gap. They took 12 hours to reach us from the other side of Antarctica. Calling for that plane was one of  the toughest decisions of my life. And I sound like a bit of a fraud standing here now with a sort of belly. I've put on 30 pounds in the last three weeks. Being that hungry has left an interesting mental scar, which is that I've been hoovering up every hotel buffet that I can find. (Laughter) But we were genuinely quite hungry, and in quite a bad way. I don't regret calling for that plane for a second, because I'm still standing here alive, with all digits intact,  telling this story. But getting external assistance like that was never part of the plan, and it's something my ego is still struggling with. This was the biggest dream I've ever had, and it was so nearly perfect. On the way back down to the coast, our crampons — they're  the spikes on our boots that we have for traveling over this blue ice on the glacier — broke on the top of the Beardmore. We still had 100 miles to go downhill on very slippery rock-hard blue ice. They needed repairing almost every hour. To give you an idea of scale, this is looking down towards the mouth of the Beardmore Glacier. You could fit the entirety of Manhattan in the gap on the horizon. That's 20 miles between Mount Hope and Mount Kiffin. I've never felt as small  as I did in Antarctica. When we got down to the mouth of the glacier, we found fresh snow had obscured the dozens of deep crevasses. One of Shackleton's men described crossing this sort of terrain as like walking over the glass roof of a railway station. We fell through more times than I can remember, usually just putting a ski or a boot through the snow. Occasionally we went in all  the way up to our armpits, but thankfully never deeper than that. And less than five weeks ago, after 105 days, we crossed this oddly  inauspicious finish line, the coast of Ross Island  on the New Zealand side of Antarctica. You can see the ice in the foreground and the sort of rubbly rock behind that. Behind us lay an unbroken  ski trail of nearly 1,800 miles. We'd made the longest ever polar journey on foot, something I'd been dreaming  of doing for a decade. And looking back, I still stand by all the things I've been saying for years about the importance of goals and determination and self-belief, but I'll also admit that I hadn't given much thought to what happens when you reach the all-consuming goal that you've dedicated  most of your adult life to, and the reality is that I'm  still figuring that bit out. As I said, there are very few superficial signs that I've been away. I've put on 30 pounds. I've got some very faint, probably  covered in makeup now, frostbite scars. I've got one on my nose, one on  each cheek, from where the goggles are, but inside I am a very  different person indeed. If I'm honest, Antarctica challenged me and humbled me so deeply that I'm not sure I'll ever be able to put it into words. I'm still struggling to piece together my thoughts. That I'm standing here  telling this story is proof that we all can  accomplish great things, through ambition, through passion, through sheer stubbornness, by refusing to quit, that if you dream something  hard enough, as Sting said, it does indeed come to pass. But I'm also standing here  saying, you know what, that cliche about the journey being  more important than the destination? There's something in that. The closer I got to my finish line, that rubbly, rocky coast of Ross Island, the more I started to realize that the biggest lesson that this very long, very hard walk might be teaching me is that happiness is not a finish line, that for us humans, the perfection that so many of us seem to dream of might not ever be truly attainable, and that if we can't feel content here, today, now, on our journeys amidst the mess and the striving that we all inhabit, the open loops,  the half-finished to-do lists, the could-do-better-next-times, then we might never feel it. A lot of people have asked me, what next? Right now, I am very happy just recovering and in front of hotel buffets. But as Bob Hope put it, I feel very humble, but I think I have the strength of character to fight it. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	身在知識份子界的綠洲 ──TED，今晚我來到各位面前，以拖著笨重物周遊寒冷地區的專家之姿站在台上。我成年之後就一直帶領極地遠征隊，上個月，我和夥伴塔卡．雷聶尼爾完成了我到目前為止最具企圖心的遠征。其實我感覺好像直接被送來這裡，在偏遠的某處度過悶哼使勁、詛咒連連的四個月之後，直接上了 TED 舞台。你可以說這個過渡期並非完全無縫接軌。有個很有趣的副作用就是我的短期記憶似乎全都一閃而過。所以我得做小抄免得接下來的 17 分鐘有太多悶哼聲與詛咒。這是我在這趟遠征後的首次演說，儘管我們不是做了基因定序或架設太空望遠鏡，但這段故事也是關於我們放棄一切去達成前所未有的事。希望你們能從中獲得一些精神糧食。 這趟遠征南極洲的旅程是在地球上最冷、風最大、最乾燥，海拔也最高的洲。那是很棒、很大的地方。比澳洲大兩倍，就跟中國和印度加起來一樣大。 順帶一提，最近幾天我經歷了一種很有意思的現象，我預料幾年後克里斯．哈德菲爾德也會在 TED 經歷到像這樣的對話：「哇！南極洲，真棒！我和老公結婚四週年的時候參加領步探險去過南極洲。」或是「酷耶！你是去跑馬拉松嗎？」（笑聲） 我們的旅程其實就是連續 69 趟馬拉松，105 天徒步走完來回 1,800 哩路，從南極海岸到南極點，再回頭。這趟路我們打破記錄比史上用人力完成的最長極地旅程還長 400 哩。（掌聲）對在座住灣區的人來說，這段路就等於從這裡走到舊金山，然後再走回去。以露營旅行來說，這是長途旅行，我看過最簡潔的說法是出現在《馬來西亞商業內幕》神聖的一頁裡。「兩名探險家完成極地遠征　　前次挑戰探險隊無一生還」 克里斯．哈德菲爾德說得很清楚，他談到恐懼、成功的機率，還有存活的機率。在我們之前，史上有九個人嘗試這趟旅程，沒有人成功往返南極點，其中五人在路上過世了。 這是羅伯特．法爾肯．史考特上尉，他帶領前次遠征。史考特和對手歐內斯特．沙克爾頓爵士在十年之間都帶著遠征隊，爭著想成為抵達南極的第一人，並繪製南極洲的地圖，在當時南極是鮮為人知的地方，比月球表面還神秘，因為我們至少能透過望遠鏡來看月球。南極洲大部分在百年前的地圖上都還沒標出來。 在座可能有人知道這個故事。史考特最後一次遠征，1910 年的新世界遠征隊，以大型極地遠征法啟程。浩蕩的隊伍用小馬、狗和汽油發動的拖拉機在預選的補給站卸下食物和燃料，因此史考特的五人小隊才能抵達南極點，隨後滑雪、徒步回到岸邊。史考特和最後的五人小隊1912 年一月抵達南極點的時候，才發現羅爾德．亞孟森帶領的挪威探險隊已打敗他們，而且他們是駕狗拉雪橇。史考特隊以徒步告結。一百多年來，還沒有人完成這趟旅程。史考特的五人小隊在回程途中全軍覆沒。近十年來，我一直不斷問自己為什麼會這樣。為什麼到現在仍難以實現？史考特隊伍徒步走了 1,600 哩，從此之後無人能及。因此這可以說是人類在地球上最嚴酷的氣候中所能忍受、努力與體能的極限。這就好像馬拉松記錄，從 1912 年到現在沒人能打破記錄一樣。當然混雜著一些奇怪和料想得到的好奇心與倔強，也許還有點自大，讓我想也許自己能成為完成目標的那個人。 不像史考特遠征隊，我們只有兩個人，去年十月我們從南極洲海岸出發，自己拖全部的東西，史考特說這個過程是「人力拖運」。雖然我剛說那就像從這走到舊金山再回來，其實是像拉著比最重的國家聯盟橄欖球員還重一點的東西。我們的雪橇有 200 公斤重，就是說一開始每個就有 440 磅，和史考特最弱的小馬拖的一樣重。初期我們平均時速是 0.5 哩。也許過去沒人嘗試走這趟旅程，超過一個世紀，是因為沒人會笨到去嘗試。雖然我無法名正言順地聲稱我們是名符其實的愛德華時代探險，因為我們沒有命名任何山或畫出不在地圖上的山谷，但我想我們踏進了人類未知的領域。確實，如果未來我們發現人腦有個部分會在你詛咒自己的時候發光，我也一點都不驚訝。 大家都聽過美國人普遍有九成時間待在室內，我們卻有將近四個月不在室內。我們也沒看到日落，因為太陽 24 小時亮著。居住環境很艱苦。105 天裡我才換了三次內衣，塔卡和我共用不到 30 平方英尺的帆布。不過我們還有些設備是史考特永遠無法想像的。我們每天晚上在帳蓬裡用筆電寫實況部落格，還有特製的衛星發射器，這些全都用太陽能發電，我們有塊彈性光電板在帳篷上。寫作對我來說很重要，小時候我就深受冒險與探索文學激勵，我想這個星期我們都看到了說故事的重要性與力量。 我們有 21 世紀的設備，但事實上史考特面臨的挑戰和我們面臨的一樣，像是那裡的天氣、史考特所說的滑行，就是雪橇和雪之間的磨擦力。我們碰過的最低風寒指數是 -70 多，能見度是零，就是一片白朦，幾乎全程都是如此。我們越過世界上最大且最危險的冰川之一──比爾德摩爾冰川。冰川有 110 哩長，表面大多是藍冰。你可以看到那是漂亮、閃亮，像鋼一樣硬的藍色表面，覆蓋了成千上萬層冰隙，這些冰川裡的裂縫深達 200 呎。飛機無法在這裡降落，所以說我們身在風險最大的地方，嚴格說來，我們獲救的機會微乎其微。 徒步走 61 天後我們抵達南極點，因為天氣差多休息了一天，不得不說那真有點掃興。南極有個常駐的美國基地──阿蒙森—斯科特南極站。他們有簡易跑道、餐廳，可以洗熱水澡，有郵局、紀念品店，還有籃球場兼電影院。所以今非昔比啊！不過那裡也有超多垃圾。我覺得很不可思議的是人類可以生活一整年每天只靠漢堡、熱水澡和電影院，但這似乎會製造很多空紙盒。你可以看到照片的左邊有幾英畝垃圾等著運出南極。但南極也有個極點，我們徒步抵達，毫無援助，走最艱難的路線，用破記錄的時間完成 900 哩，還拖著比史上任何人都還重的東西。如果我們就此打住，直接飛回家，這樣的決定看起來非常合理，那我的演說就會到此告一段落，而且以這樣結尾： 如果你和對的團體在一起，擁有對的工具和科技，如果你有足夠的信念和決心，那麼任何事都有可能實現。 但是後來我們轉身繼續走回程，這件事就有點意思了。在南極高原上，超過一萬呎，風超大、超冷、超乾，我們都精疲力盡了。我們已經完成了 35 趟馬拉松，但這只完成一半，當然我們有安全措施，像是雪地飛機、衛星電話、24 小時即時追蹤信標，當時史考特可沒有這些東西，但事後看來，與其說能讓生活好過一點，不如說安全措施讓我們能把事情做到最精準，讓我們能完全發揮到人類極限。這是種最極致的折磨，日復一日耗盡力氣直到餓扁肚子，而且還拉著滿雪橇的食物。 幾年來，我總是在募款計畫上寫些好聽話，說我們要超越人類極限，但其實那裡是非常嚇人的地方。在我們抵達南極點之前，幾乎吹了整整兩週的逆風，降低了我們的速度。結果我們有幾天只能吃一半。雪橇上讓我們走完整趟路的食物有限，所以我們要試著節省食物，減半攝取原本應該有的熱量。結果我們的低血糖日趨嚴重，我們的血糖一天天降低，而且越來越容易受酷寒天候影響。塔卡有天晚上幫我拍了這張照片，我才差點因為失溫而暈倒。我們一次又一次面臨失溫，這是我以前從沒碰過的事，真讓人自覺渺小。你很可能會有種想法，我也是，你自認是那種永不放棄的人，你會光榮退場，但失溫讓你毫無選擇。你會變得很沒用，就像是個喝醉的學步幼兒，變得很悲慘。我記得當時只想躺下，就此放棄。那是種很怪的感覺，而且累到那個程度也真是嚇到我了。 後來我們吃完了全部的食物，離第一個補給站還有 46 哩路，我們為出遠門準備了糧食補給站。我們準備了 10 個補給站的食物，基本上就是把回程的食物和燃料埋起來，燃料是為了煮冰，我們才能有水喝，我被迫決定聯絡補給機，這種雪地飛機會運送八天份食物讓我們度過難關。他們花了 12 小時才從南極的另一端找到我們。 請求飛機支援是我生命中很困難的決定。聽起來我就像是個有大肚腩的騙子站在這裡。最近三週我胖了 30 磅。那種飢餓在心裡留下了一種有意思的恐懼，讓我四處狂掃每家飯店的吃到飽自助餐。（笑聲）但是我們真的超餓，完全餓壞了。我從沒後悔向飛機呼救，因為我還活著，十指健全站在這裡說故事。但是尋求像那樣的外部援助完全不在計畫中，我的自尊心仍掙扎不已。這曾是我此生最大的夢想，差一點就完美了。 走回海岸的路上，我們的冰爪──裝在靴子上的釘鞋，用來在冰川的藍冰上行走，在比爾德摩爾冰川上壞了。下山還有百哩路，而且是走在很滑，硬如石頭的藍冰。釘鞋幾乎每小時都要修理一次。讓你更了解狀況，這是向下看比爾德摩冰川口的照片。你可以在地平線上的這個缺口塞進整個曼哈頓。這是在霍普山和奇芬山之間的 20 哩路。在南極讓我感覺前所未有的渺小。我們走到冰河口的時候，發現剛下的雪已經覆蓋了許多深長的冰隙。沙克爾頓的隊員形容橫越這種地面就像是走在火車站的玻璃屋頂上。我們掉下去的次數多到我都記不得了，通常只有雪板或靴子陷下去。但有時候一路陷，直到腋下才停，還好沒有陷更深了。 不到五週前，在出發 105 天後，我們穿越這條格外不祥的終點線，就是南極洲靠紐西蘭那側的羅斯島海岸。你可以看到冰川前端和那後面的碎岩石。我們身後的是完好的冰道，大約 1,800 哩長。我們徒步走完最長的極地旅途，這是我夢想了十年的事。 回過頭看，我還信守著那些我說了好幾年的事，那些目標的重要性、決心與信念，但我也必須承認，我過去一直沒多想當你實現那個全心全意想達成的目標，那個成年後傾全力投入的目標時會如何，而現實是我還在一點一滴摸索。就像我剛說的，表面上沒多少我遠行的跡象。我胖了 30 磅。我長了一些很淡的凍瘡，大概被粧蓋掉了，鼻子上一個，左右臉頰各一個，從護目鏡那開始長。但我的內在變成了非常不一樣的人。老實說，南極挑戰我最內在的部分，讓我深感卑微，我不確定自己能用言語表達清楚。我還在努力拼湊思緒。我站在這裡說這個故事證明了我們都能成就大事，憑著企圖心、熱情、堅定不移、和不願放棄，只要你的渴望夠強大，就能像史汀說的，終能實現願望。但我也站在這裡告訴大家，你知道為什麼陳腔濫調總是說旅程比目的地還重要嗎？裡面有些道理在。當我越靠近終點線，那條羅斯島的碎石岩岸，我開始越能理解，這趟又長又艱辛的步行教我最重要的一課是快樂不等於終點線，對身為人類的我們來說，大多數人夢想中所謂的完美也許永遠都無法實現，如果我們不能在此地、此時、此刻滿足於我們的旅程，不能滿足於一團混亂與努力奮鬥之中的旅程，不能滿足於充斥想不透做不到的事、未完成的待辦事項、和事情下次能做得更好的旅程，那麼我們也許永遠都不會感到滿足。 很多人問我接下來要做什麼？現在只要能恢復、站在飯店自助餐前，我就覺得非常快樂。但就像鮑勃．霍普所說，我覺得自己十分卑微，但我想我有剛強的性格能起身戰鬥。（笑聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
