Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_wellington_how_we_found_the_worst_place_to_park_in_new_york_city_using_big_data	"Six thousand miles of road, 600 miles of subway track, 400 miles of bike lanes and a half a mile of tram track, if you've ever been to Roosevelt Island. These are the numbers that make up the infrastructure of New York City. These are the statistics of our infrastructure. They're the kind of numbers you can find released in reports by city agencies. For example, the Department of Transportation will probably tell you how many miles of road they maintain. The MTA will boast how many miles of subway track there are. Most city agencies give us statistics. This is from a report this year from the Taxi and Limousine Commission, where we learn that there's about 13,500 taxis here in New York City. Pretty interesting, right? But did you ever think about where these numbers came from? Because for these numbers to exist, someone at the city agency had to stop and say, hmm, here's a number that somebody might want want to know. Here's a number  that our citizens want to know. So they go back to their raw data, they count, they add, they calculate, and then they put out reports, and those reports will have numbers like this. The problem is, how do they know all of our questions? We have lots of questions. In fact, in some ways there's literally an infinite number of questions that we can ask about our city. The agencies can never keep up. So the paradigm isn't exactly working, and I think our policymakers realize that, because in 2012, Mayor Bloomberg signed into law what he called the most ambitious and comprehensive open data legislation in the country. In a lot of ways, he's right. In the last two years,  the city has released 1,000 datasets on our open data portal, and it's pretty awesome. So you go and look at data like this, and instead of just counting the number of cabs, we can start to ask different questions. So I had a question. When's rush hour in New York City? It can be pretty bothersome. When is rush hour exactly? And I thought to myself, these cabs aren't just numbers, these are GPS recorders driving around in our city streets recording each and every ride they take. There's data there, and I looked at that data, and I made a plot of the average speed of taxis in New York City throughout the day. You can see that from about midnight to around 5:18 in the morning, speed increases, and at that point, things turn around, and they get slower and slower and slower until about 8:35 in the morning, when they end up at around 11 and a half miles per hour. The average taxi is going 11 and a half miles per hour on our city streets, and it turns out it stays that way for the entire day. (Laughter) So I said to myself, I guess there's no rush hour in New York City. There's just a rush day. Makes sense. And this is important for a couple of reasons. If you're a transportation planner, this might be pretty interesting to know. But if you want to get somewhere quickly, you now know to set your alarm for 4:45 in the morning and you're all set. New York, right? But there's a story behind this data. This data wasn't just available, it turns out. It actually came from something called a Freedom of Information Law Request, or a FOIL Request. This is a form you can find on the Taxi and Limousine Commission website. In order to access this data, you need to go get this form, fill it out, and they will notify you, and a guy named Chris Whong did exactly that. Chris went down, and they told him, ""Just bring a brand new hard drive  down to our office, leave it here for five hours, we'll copy the data and you take it back."" And that's where this data came from. Now, Chris is the kind of guy who wants to make the data public, and so it ended up online for all to use, and that's where this graph came from. And the fact that it exists is amazing. These GPS recorders — really cool. But the fact that we have citizens walking around with hard drives picking up data from city agencies to make it public — it was already kind of public, you could get to it, but it was ""public,"" it wasn't public. And we can do better than that as a city. We don't need our citizens walking around with hard drives. Now, not every dataset is behind a FOIL Request. Here is a map I made with the most dangerous intersections in New York City based on cyclist accidents. So the red areas are more dangerous. And what it shows is first the East side of Manhattan, especially in the lower area of Manhattan, has more cyclist accidents. That might make sense because there are more cyclists coming off the bridges there. But there's other hotspots worth studying. There's Williamsburg. There's Roosevelt Avenue in Queens. And this is exactly the kind of data we need for Vision Zero. This is exactly what we're looking for. But there's a story behind this data as well. This data didn't just appear. How many of you guys know this logo? Yeah, I see some shakes. Have you ever tried to copy and paste data out of a PDF and make sense of it? I see more shakes. More of you tried copying and pasting than knew the logo. I like that. So what happened is, the data that you just saw was actually on a PDF. In fact, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages of PDF put out by our very own NYPD, and in order to access it, you would either have to copy and paste for hundreds and hundreds of hours, or you could be John Krauss. John Krauss was like, I'm not going to copy and paste this data. I'm going to write a program. It's called the NYPD Crash Data Band-Aid, and it goes to the NYPD's website and it would download PDFs. Every day it would search; if it found a PDF, it would download it and then it would run some PDF-scraping program, and out would come the text, and it would go on the Internet, and then people could make maps like that. And the fact that the data's here, the fact that we have access to it — Every accident, by the way, is a row in this table. You can imagine how many PDFs that is. The fact that we have access to that is great, but let's not release it in PDF form, because then we're having our citizens write PDF scrapers. It's not the best use of our citizens' time, and we as a city can do better than that. Now, the good news is that the de Blasio administration actually recently released this data a few months ago, and so now we can actually have access to it, but there's a lot of data still entombed in PDF. For example, our crime data is still only available in PDF. And not just our crime data, our own city budget. Our city budget is only readable right now in PDF form. And it's not just us that can't analyze it — our own legislators who vote for the budget also only get it in PDF. So our legislators cannot analyze  the budget that they are voting for. And I think as a city we can do a little better than that as well. Now, there's a lot of data that's not hidden in PDFs. This is an example of a map I made, and this is the dirtiest waterways in New York City. Now, how do I measure dirty? Well, it's kind of a little weird, but I looked at the level of fecal coliform, which is a measurement of fecal matter in each of our waterways. The larger the circle, the dirtier the water, so the large circles are dirty water, the small circles are cleaner. What you see is inland waterways. This is all data that was sampled by the city over the last five years. And inland waterways are, in general, dirtier. That makes sense, right? And the bigger circles are dirty. And I learned a few things from this. Number one: Never swim in anything that ends in ""creek"" or ""canal."" But number two: I also found the dirtiest waterway in New York City, by this measure, one measure. In Coney Island Creek, which is not the Coney Island you swim in, luckily. It's on the other side. But Coney Island Creek, 94 percent of samples taken over the last five years have had fecal levels so high that it would be against state law to swim in the water. And this is not the kind of fact that you're going to see boasted in a city report, right? It's not going to be  the front page on nyc.gov. You're not going to see it there, but the fact that we can get  to that data is awesome. But once again, it wasn't super easy, because this data was not on the open data portal. If you were to go to the open data portal, you'd see just a snippet of it,  a year or a few months. It was actually on the Department of Environmental Protection's website. And each one of these links is an Excel  sheet, and each Excel sheet is different. Every heading is different: you copy, paste, reorganize. When you do you can make maps and that's great, but once again, we can do better than that  as a city, we can normalize things. And we're getting there, because there's this website that Socrata makes called the Open Data Portal NYC. This is where 1,100 data sets  that don't suffer from the things I just told you live, and that number is growing, and that's great. You can download data in any format, be it CSV or PDF or Excel document. Whatever you want, you can download the data that way. The problem is, once you do, you will find that each agency codes their addresses differently. So one is street name,  intersection street, street, borough, address, building, building address. So once again, you're spending time, even when we have this portal, you're spending time normalizing our address fields. And that's not the best use  of our citizens' time. We can do better than that as a city. We can standardize our addresses, and if we do,  we can get more maps like this. This is a map of fire hydrants in New York City, but not just any fire hydrants. These are the top 250 grossing fire hydrants in terms of parking tickets. (Laughter) So I learned a few things from this map, and I really like this map. Number one, just don't park on the Upper East Side. Just don't. It doesn't matter where you park, you will get a hydrant ticket. Number two, I found the two highest grossing hydrants in all of New York City, and they're on the Lower East Side, and they were bringing in over 55,000 dollars a year in parking tickets. And that seemed a little strange to me when I noticed it, so I did a little digging and it turns out what you had is a hydrant and then something called a curb extension, which is like a seven-foot space to walk on, and then a parking spot. And so these cars came along, and the hydrant — ""It's all the way over there, I'm fine,"" and there was actually a parking spot painted there beautifully for them. They would park there, and the NYPD disagreed with this designation and would ticket them. And it wasn't just me  who found a parking ticket. This is the Google  Street View car driving by finding the same parking ticket. So I wrote about this on my blog, on I Quant NY, and the DOT responded, and they said, ""While the DOT has not received any complaints about this location, we will review the roadway markings and make any appropriate alterations."" And I thought to myself, typical government response, all right, moved on with my life. But then, a few weeks later, something incredible happened. They repainted the spot, and for a second I thought I saw the future of open data, because think about what happened here. For five years, this spot was being  ticketed, and it was confusing, and then a citizen found something, they told the city, and within a few weeks the problem was fixed. It's amazing. And a lot of people see open data as being a watchdog. It's not, it's about being a partner. We can empower our citizens to be better partners for government, and it's not that hard. All we need are a few changes. If you're FOILing data, if you're seeing your data  being FOILed over and over again, let's release it to the public, that's a sign that it should be made public. And if you're a government agency releasing a PDF, let's pass legislation that requires you to post it with the underlying data, because that data is coming from somewhere. I don't know where, but it's coming from somewhere, and you can release it with the PDF. And let's adopt and share some open data standards. Let's start with our addresses here in New York City. Let's just start normalizing our addresses. Because New York is a leader in open data. Despite all this, we are absolutely a leader in open data, and if we start normalizing things, and set an open data standard, others will follow. The state will follow, and maybe the federal government, Other countries could follow, and we're not that far off from a time where you could write one program and map information from 100 countries. It's not science fiction. We're actually quite close. And by the way, who are we empowering with this? Because it's not just John Krauss and it's not just Chris Whong. There are hundreds of meetups going on in New York City right now, active meetups. There are thousands of people attending these meetups. These people are going after work and on weekends, and they're attending these meetups to look at open data and make our city a better place. Groups like BetaNYC, who just last week  released something called citygram.nyc that allows you to subscribe to 311 complaints around your own home, or around your office. You put in your address, you get local complaints. And it's not just the tech community that are after these things. It's urban planners like  the students I teach at Pratt. It's policy advocates, it's everyone, it's citizens from a diverse set of backgrounds. And with some small, incremental changes, we can unlock the passion and the ability of our citizens to harness open data and make our city even better, whether it's one dataset, or one parking spot at a time. Thank you. (Applause)"	六千英里公路，六百英里地鐵路線，四百英里腳踏車專用道，半英里的有軌電車專用道僅在羅斯福島。 這些數字構成了紐約市的基建。這些基建的統計數字，都可以在市政機關公佈的報告中找到。譬如，交通部門可能會告訴你，他們維護這多少英里的道路。MTA（紐約交通運輸管理局）會自誇他們掌管著多少英里捷運。多數的市政機關都在公佈統計數據。這是今年計程車與轎車委員會發佈的報告，我們從中知道紐約市運營著大約一萬三千五百輛計程車。很有趣，是嗎？但你有否想過這些數據來自哪裡？既然有這些數字存在，那肯定是因為在市政機關的某個人想過：嗯......這個數字可能有人會想知道。這個數字是市民們想知道的。所以他們找回那些原始數據，他們計數、相加、計算，然後把得出的結果寫進報告中，所以那些報告中會有這樣的數字。 那麼問題來了：他們怎麼會知道我們的問題都是什麼？我們有很多問題。事實上，可以說我們有無窮無盡的問題有關我們這座城市。市政機關可無法跟得上（我們的節奏）。現有模式並不具有實效，我覺得我們的政策制定者也知道這點，因為在2012年，彭博市長簽署了一個法令，他稱之為全美最具雄心和綜合性的開放數據立法。從各種意義上來說，他是對的。在過去兩年中，市政有1000個數據庫放在我們的開放數據門戶網站上，還是蠻驚人的。我們來檢視這些數據，除了數數計程車的數量，我們也能開始問不一樣的問題了。 我有一個問題：紐約市的交通高峰在什麼時候？這簡直煩人。高峰到底是什麼時候？我想到，這些計程車可不僅僅是個數字，它們可以是開遍全市道路的GPS記錄儀，記錄著乘客的每一差車程。數據是現成的。我檢視它們，並制出一張圖表，標出一天中紐約市計程車的平均時速。大家可以看到，從半夜到凌晨五點十八分，時速一直在增加，然後到了拐點，時速逐漸下降，在早間的八點三十五分，時速降到十一英里半。運營中計程車的平均時速保持在十一英里半，結果沒有變化，整天都是如此。（笑聲）我告訴自己，紐約市並不存在高峰時段，而是全天都高峰。這是個有意義的結論，原因有幾點。如果你是做交通規劃的，知道這個結論會有意義。如果你要快速到達某地，只要把鬧鐘定在凌晨四點四十五分就行了。紐約嘛！ 但這個數據背後還有故事。這個數據並不真的是現成的。你需要做一個「信息自由法案申請」，也叫「FOIL申請」。你可以在計程車和轎車委員會的網站上找到相關申請表。如果要獲得這些數據，你要弄到這張申請表，填好上交，受理人員屆時會通知你。一個叫克里斯▪旺的人就這樣做了。克里斯來到委員會，工作人員告訴他「帶個全新的硬盤來辦公室，我們會把相關數據拷貝給你，過五小時來拿。」這就是拿到數據的經過。克里斯想公開這些數據，於是放到網路上供所有人使用，所以我才能做出這張圖。這一切——這些GPS記錄儀真是酷。但是，市民要攜帶自己的移動硬盤踏遍市政機關，然後通過自己的努力公開，這件事——政府數據可以說是公開的，普通市民能得到它，但這只是名義上的「公開」，並不是真正的公開。我們的城市可以做得更好。我們不需要費力帶著移動硬盤到處跑。 並不是每一個數據庫都需要FOIL申請。我做的這張地圖標出了紐約市最危險的路口，來源是腳踏車騎行者的交通事故數據。紅色區域更危險，圖上顯示，首先，曼哈頓的東側，特別是曼哈頓的下城區域，腳踏車事故更多。這可能是因為，在這裡有更多的騎行者從大橋下來。圖上還有其他的熱點區域值得研究。威廉姆斯堡、皇后區的羅斯福大道，這些咨詢才是Vision Zero項目所需要的。這正是我們要找的東西。 這個數據背後也有個故事。這個數據並不是現成的。有多少人知道這個符號？我看到有人點頭了。你們有沒有試過從PDF文檔中拷貝和黏貼數據，並據此作出結論呢？我看到更多人點頭了。試圖拷貝粘貼的人比認識這個標誌的人更多，真有趣。 你們剛剛看到的數據是做在PDF裡的。事實上，是成千上萬頁的PDF文檔，由我們的紐約警署發佈。如果你想享用這些數據，你要不就持續做複製黏貼的動作，花掉成千上萬小時，要不就像約翰▪克勞斯一樣。約翰▪克勞斯可不想重複地去複製黏貼，他寫了一個程式。這個程序叫做「紐約警署交通事故數據OK蹦」，它能到紐約警署的網站下載PDF文檔，每天它都去搜索；如果找到一個PDF文檔，就下載下來，然後運行某個PDF解碼的程式，把其中的文字信息提取出來，其中的訊息會發佈在網路上，人們就可以製作這些地圖。這些數據就在那兒，我們都能得到——每一個交通事故就是一行數據。你們可以想像有多少PDF需要轉碼。 ——我們能看到這些數據固然好，但能不能不要弄成PDF格式的，不然市民們就得去寫PDF解碼的程式，這對市民的時間來說是一種浪費，而我們的城市能做的更好。 有個好消息，白思豪市長的班底在幾個月前公開了這份數據，所以我們能直接享用這些數據，然而還有很多數據是PDF格式的。譬如，我們的罪案數據目前只有PDF格式的。除了罪案數據，市政預算也是如此。目前我們的市政預算只有PDF格式的。不僅是我們無法分析這些數字，那些為市政預算投票的立法委員們也只能拿到PDF版本的數字。所以我們的立法委員是無法分析他們要為之投票的市政預算的。我認為我們的城市還能做得更好。 很多數據已經不躲在PDF中了。這裡有一幅地圖可以作為例證，標示了紐約市最骯髒的水路。我是如何衡量「骯髒」的呢?這裡有些奇怪，我衡量的是糞便大腸菌群的水平，這是水路中糞便物質的一種衡量指標。圓圈越大，水就越髒，所以圖上的大圓圈代表髒水，小圓圈代表乾淨的水。大家看到的是內河水道。這裡有紐約市過去五年採樣的所有數據。內河水道總的來說變髒了。這個結論挺合理的，對嗎？大圓圈代表髒水。我從中學到了幾件事情。第一：千萬別在任何叫做「xx溪」或「xx運河」的地方游泳。但是第二：紐約市最髒的水路，只看（糞便大腸菌群）這個唯一的指標，在康尼島溪，幸好不是你們游泳的康尼島。那在島的另一面。但在康尼島溪中，過去五年的採樣中有94%含有超標的糞便含量，以至於達到州法律禁止游泳的水平。 這種類型的事實你可不會在市政報告中看到，不是嗎？這也不會登上紐約市政府網站的頭條。我們肯定不會看到的，但能看到這些數據真實不錯。同樣，拿到這些數據並不容易，因為它們並不在公開數據門戶網站上。如果你看公開數據的門戶網站，你只能看到其中一些片段，只有一年內或幾個月的數據。這些數據其實是在環境保護部門的網站上。每一個鏈接都是一個Excel文件，而每個Excel文件都是不一樣的。每一個表頭都不同：需要複製、黏貼、還有重新整理。一旦完成你就能做出這些地圖，但我要再次重申，我們的城市能做的更好，我們可以標準化。 我們正在改善這裡有個索克拉塔公司建立的網站叫做「紐約市公開數據門戶」。這裡，1100個數據庫都不存在標準化的問題，而且（這些無縫連接的數據庫）數字還在增加。你可以下載任一格式的數據：CSV、PDF或Excel文件都可以。按你自己的需求來下載。但問題又來了，你會發現不同的機構用不同的代碼來表示地址。有街道名、有路口名、行政區、地址、建築物、建築物地址等等。所以，即使有這個門戶網站的幫助，你還得花時間來標準化地址這塊的數據。這也不是有效利用市民時間的方法。我們的城市能做得更好。我們可以對地址進行標準化，如果做到了，我們就能做出更多這樣的地圖。 這是紐約市消防龍頭的地圖，但不僅於此。這些是前250個吃到最多違章停車罰單的消防栓位置圖。（笑聲）我從圖中學到了幾件事，我也真的喜歡這張圖。第一：別在上東區停車。千萬別停。因為不管停哪裡都會吃罰單。第二：我找出了全紐約市最最容易吃到違章停車罰單的兩個消防栓的位置，兩個都在下東區，每年能在罰單上創收五萬五千多美金。我注意到這點，覺得有些奇怪，於是深入挖掘了一下原因，結果發現消防栓都有一個叫做控制擴展的區域，是約有七英呎的一塊地方，可以走路，然後是一個停車位。所以車開過來，司機發現消防栓，想“還有一段距離，這裡沒問題的”，何況地上還有一個畫得美美的停車位，司機停好車，但紐約警署不同意這種配置，開出了罰單。可不只是我本人吃了罰單，這是谷歌街景拍到的一輛過路車，也吃了同樣的一張罰單。 於是我把這件事發到自己的部落格上以及“I Quant NY”上，結果交通部門回復如下：“交通部並未就此地點收到相關投訴，我們會重新檢視道路標誌，並做出適當的改善措施。”我暗自想：多麼官腔！好吧，我該幹嘛幹嘛去了。 然而，幾週時間過去，發生了意料之外的事情。停車位重新畫了，那一瞬間我覺得能看到公開數據的未來。大家想想這件事，過去五年，這個讓人困惑的停車位一直讓人吃罰單，但某一天，一位市民發現了問題報告市政機關，又過了幾週時間，問題車位被修正了。太不可思議了。很多人認為公開數據讓市民變成政府的監視者，並非如此，它實則讓人們成為了合作夥伴。市民能夠有底氣成為政府更好的合作夥伴，這並不難。我們只需要作出一些改變。如果我們在申請FOIL信息自由法案數據，如果你看到自己申請的數據已經被反覆申請，讓我們直接向公眾公開，因為反覆申請就是需要公開的一种信號。如果某個政府機關正在發佈PDF數據，讓我們通過法案要求他們發佈隱藏的數據，因為這些數據必定有來源。我不知道從哪兒，但肯定有來源，可以發佈PDF之外的信息。讓我們運用并分享一些公開數據的標準。讓我們從紐約本市的地址開始，把地址標準化。因為紐約是公開數據的領導者。儘管如此，我們絕對是公開數據的領導者，如果我們開始做標準化的工作，建立公開數據的標準，其他人都會追隨的。州里會、聯邦政府也可能，我知道這或許聽上去有些瘋狂，但別的國家也未嘗不會追隨。我們不久後也許能開發出可以涵蓋100個國家地圖信息的程式。這可不是科幻小說，而是指日可待的事實。 這能幫助誰？可不單單是約翰▪克勞斯和克里斯▪旺。紐約城現在正有幾百個聚會在進行，都是活躍的聚會。這些聚會讓幾千人參與其中。他們下班後或在週末會面，共同研究空開數據，幫助我們的城市變得更好，BetaNYC這樣的團體，上週剛剛發佈了citygram.nyc讓你能夠訂閱311個自己住家或辦公地周圍的投訴。你輸入地址，就能看到附近的投訴。而且，做這些事情的並不限於技術社團。我在Pratt學院教的城市規劃學生也在做同樣的事。還有政策提倡者、以至每個人，是擁有不同領域背景的市民們。隨著一個個小的改變，我們能解開市民們激情和能力的封印，好好利用空開數據，建設更好的城市，就算每次只有一個數據庫，或只是一個停車位。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
