Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_saunders_skis_to_the_north_pole	"This is me. My name is Ben Saunders. I specialize in dragging heavy things around cold places. On May 11th last year, I stood alone at the North geographic Pole. I was the only human being in an area one-and-a-half times the size of America, five-and-a-half thousand square miles. More than 2,000 people have climbed Everest. 12 people have stood on the moon. Including me, only four people have skied solo to the North Pole. And I think the reason for that — (Applause) — thank you — I think the reason for that is that it's — it's — well, it's as Chris said, bonkers. It's a journey that is right at the limit of human capability. I skied the equivalent of 31 marathons back to back. 800 miles in 10 weeks. And I was dragging all the food I needed, the supplies, the equipment, sleeping bag, one change of underwear — everything I needed for nearly three months. (Laughter) What we're going to try and do today, in the 16 and a bit minutes I've got left, is to try and answer three questions. The first one is, why? The second one is, how do you go to the loo at minus 40? ""Ben, I've read somewhere that at minus 40, exposed skin becomes frostbitten in less than a minute, so how do you answer the call of nature?"" I don't want to answer these now. I'll come on to them at the end. Third one: how do you top that? What's next? It all started back in 2001. My first expedition was with a guy called Pen Hadow — enormously experienced chap. This was like my polar apprenticeship. We were trying to ski from this group of islands up here, Severnaya Zemlya, to the North Pole. And the thing that fascinates me about the North Pole, geographic North Pole, is that it's slap bang in the middle of the sea. This is about as good as maps get, and to reach it you've got to ski literally over the frozen crust, the floating skin of ice on the Artic Ocean. I'd spoken to all the experts. I'd read lots of books. I studied maps and charts. But I realized on the morning of day one that I had no idea exactly what I'd let myself in for. I was 23 years old. No one my age had attempted anything like this, and pretty quickly, almost everything that could have gone wrong did go wrong. We were attacked by a polar bear on day two. I had frostbite in my left big toe. We started running very low on food. We were both pretty hungry, losing lots of weight. Some very unusual weather conditions, very difficult ice conditions. We had decidedly low-tech communications. We couldn't afford a satellite phone, so we had HF radio. You can see two ski poles sticking out of the roof of the tent. There's a wire dangling down either side. That was our HF radio antenna. We had less than two hours two-way communication with the outside world in two months. Ultimately, we ran out of time. We'd skied 400 miles. We were just over 200 miles left to go to the Pole, and we'd run out of time. We were too late into the summer; the ice was starting to melt; we spoke to the Russian helicopter pilots on the radio, and they said, ""Look boys, you've run out of time. We've got to pick you up."" And I felt that I had failed, wholeheartedly. I was a failure. The one goal, the one dream I'd had for as long as I could remember — I hadn't even come close. And skiing along that first trip, I had two imaginary video clips that I'd replay over and over again in my mind when the going got tough, just to keep my motivation going. The first one was reaching the Pole itself. I could see vividly, I suppose, being filmed out of the door of a helicopter, there was, kind of, rock music playing in the background, and I had a ski pole with a Union Jack, you know, flying in the wind. I could see myself sticking the flag in a pole, you know — ah, glorious moment — the music kind of reaching a crescendo. The second video clip that I imagined was getting back to Heathrow airport, and I could see again, vividly, the camera flashbulbs going off, the paparazzi, the autograph hunters, the book agents coming to sign me up for a deal. And of course, neither of these things happened. We didn't get to the Pole, and we didn't have any money to pay anyone to do the PR, so no one had heard of this expedition. And I got back to Heathrow. My mum was there; my brother was there; my granddad was there — had a little Union Jack — (Laughter) — and that was about it. I went back to live with my mum. I was physically exhausted, mentally an absolute wreck, considered myself a failure. In a huge amount of debt personally to this expedition, and lying on my mum's sofa, day in day out, watching daytime TV. My brother sent me a text message, an SMS — it was a quote from the ""Simpsons."" It said, ""You tried your hardest and failed miserably. The lesson is: don't even try."" (Laughter) Fast forward three years. I did eventually get off the sofa, and start planning another expedition. This time, I wanted to go right across, on my own this time, from Russia, at the top of the map, to the North Pole, where the sort of kink in the middle is, and then on to Canada. No one has made a complete crossing of the Arctic Ocean on their own. Two Norwegians did it as a team in 2000. No one's done it solo. Very famous, very accomplished Italian mountaineer, Reinhold Messner, tried it in 1995, and he was rescued after a week. He described this expedition as 10 times as dangerous as Everest. So for some reason, this was what I wanted to have a crack at, but I knew that even to stand a chance of getting home in one piece, let alone make it across to Canada, I had to take a radical approach. This meant everything from perfecting the sawn-off, sub-two-gram toothbrush, to working with one of the world's leading nutritionists in developing a completely new, revolutionary nutritional strategy from scratch: 6,000 calories a day. And the expedition started in February last year. Big support team. We had a film crew, a couple of logistics people with us, my girlfriend, a photographer. At first it was pretty sensible. We flew British Airways to Moscow. The next bit in Siberia to Krasnoyarsk, on a Russian internal airline called KrasAir, spelled K-R-A-S. The next bit, we'd chartered a pretty elderly Russian plane to fly us up to a town called Khatanga, which was the sort of last bit of civilization. Our cameraman, who it turned out was a pretty nervous flier at the best of times, actually asked the pilot, before we got on the plane, how long this flight would take, and the pilot — Russian pilot — completely deadpan, replied, ""Six hours — if we live."" (Laughter) We got to Khatanga. I think the joke is that Khatanga isn't the end of the world, but you can see it from there. (Laughter) It was supposed to be an overnight stay. We were stuck there for 10 days. There was a kind of vodka-fueled pay dispute between the helicopter pilots and the people that owned the helicopter, so we were stuck. We couldn't move. Finally, morning of day 11, we got the all-clear, loaded up the helicopters — two helicopters flying in tandem — dropped me off at the edge of the pack ice. We had a frantic sort of 45 minutes of filming, photography; while the helicopter was still there, I did an interview on the satellite phone; and then everyone else climbed back into the helicopter, wham, the door closed, and I was alone. And I don't know if words will ever quite do that moment justice. All I could think about was running back up to the door, banging on the door, and saying, ""Look guys, I haven't quite thought this through."" (Laughter) To make things worse, you can just see the white dot up at the top right hand side of the screen; that's a full moon. Because we'd been held up in Russia, of course, the full moon brings the highest and lowest tides; when you're standing on the frozen surface of the sea, high and low tides generally mean that interesting things are going to happen — the ice is going to start moving around a bit. I was, you can see there, pulling two sledges. Grand total in all, 95 days of food and fuel, 180 kilos — that's almost exactly 400 pounds. When the ice was flat or flattish, I could just about pull both. When the ice wasn't flat, I didn't have a hope in hell. I had to pull one, leave it, and go back and get the other one. Literally scrambling through what's called pressure ice — the ice had been smashed up under the pressure of the currents of the ocean, the wind and the tides. NASA described the ice conditions last year as the worst since records began. And it's always drifting. The pack ice is always drifting. I was skiing into headwinds for nine out of the 10 weeks I was alone last year, and I was drifting backwards most of the time. My record was minus 2.5 miles. I got up in the morning, took the tent down, skied north for seven-and-a-half hours, put the tent up, and I was two and a half miles further back than when I'd started. I literally couldn't keep up with the drift of the ice. (Video): So it's day 22. I'm lying in the tent, getting ready to go. The weather is just appalling — oh, drifted back about five miles in the last — last night. Later in the expedition, the problem was no longer the ice. It was a lack of ice — open water. I knew this was happening. I knew the Artic was warming. I knew there was more open water. And I had a secret weapon up my sleeve. This was my little bit of bio-mimicry. Polar bears on the Artic Ocean move in dead straight lines. If they come to water, they'll climb in, swim across it. So we had a dry suit developed — I worked with a team in Norway — based on a sort of survival suit — I suppose, that helicopter pilots would wear — that I could climb into. It would go on over my boots, over my mittens, it would pull up around my face,  and seal pretty tightly around my face. And this meant I could ski over very thin ice, and if I fell through, it wasn't the end of the world. It also meant, if the worst came to the worst, I could actually jump in and swim across and drag the sledge over after me. Some pretty radical technology, a radical approach —but it worked perfectly. Another exciting thing we did last year was with communications technology. In 1912, Shackleton's Endurance expedition — there was — one of his crew, a guy called Thomas Orde-Lees. He said, ""The explorers of 2012, if there is anything left to explore, will no doubt carry pocket wireless telephones fitted with wireless telescopes."" Well, Orde-Lees guessed wrong by about eight years. This is my pocket wireless telephone, Iridium satellite phone. The wireless telescope was a digital camera I had tucked in my pocket. And every single day of the 72 days I was alone on the ice, I was blogging live from my tent, sending back a little diary piece, sending back information on the distance I'd covered — the ice conditions, the temperature — and a daily photo. Remember, 2001, we had less than two hours radio contact with the outside world. Last year, blogging live from an expedition that's been described as 10 times as dangerous as Everest. It wasn't all high-tech. This is navigating in what's called a whiteout. When you get lots of mist, low cloud, the wind starts blowing the snow up. You can't see an awful lot. You can just see, there's a yellow ribbon tied to one of my ski poles. I'd navigate using the direction of the wind. So, kind of a weird combination of high-tech and low-tech. I got to the Pole on the 11th of May. It took me 68 days to get there from Russia, and there is nothing there. (Laughter). There isn't even a pole at the Pole. There's nothing there, purely because it's sea ice. It's drifting. Stick a flag there, leave it there, pretty soon it will drift off, usually towards Canada or Greenland. I knew this, but I was expecting something. Strange mixture of feelings: it was extremely warm by this stage, a lot of open water around, and of course, elated that I'd got there under my own steam, but starting to really realize that my chances of making it all the way across to Canada, which was still 400 miles away, were slim at best. The only proof I've got that I was there is a blurry photo of my GPS, the little satellite navigation gadget. You can just see — there's a nine and a string of zeros here. Ninety degrees north — that is slap bang in the North Pole. I took a photo of that. Sat down on my sledge. Did a sort of video diary piece. Took a few photos. I got my satellite phone out. I warmed the battery up in my armpit. I dialed three numbers. I dialed my mum. I dialed my girlfriend. I dialed the CEO of my sponsor. And I got three voicemails. (Laughter) (Video): Ninety. It's a special feeling. The entire planet is rotating beneath my feet. The — the whole world underneath me. I finally got through to my mum. She was at the queue of the supermarket. She started crying. She asked me to call her back. (Laughter) I skied on for a week past the Pole. I wanted to get as close to Canada as I could before conditions just got too dangerous to continue. This was the last day I had on the ice. When I spoke to the — my project management team, they said, ""Look, Ben, conditions are getting too dangerous. There are huge areas of open water just south of your position. We'd like to pick you up. Ben, could you please look for an airstrip?"" This was the view outside my tent when I had this fateful phone call. I'd never tried to build an airstrip before. Tony, the expedition manager, he said, ""Look Ben, you've got to find 500 meters of flat, thick safe ice."" The only bit of ice I could find — it took me 36 hours of skiing around trying to find an airstrip — was exactly 473 meters. I could measure it with my skis. I didn't tell Tony that. I didn't tell the pilots that. I thought, it'll have to do. (Video): Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. It just about worked. A pretty dramatic landing — the plane actually passed over four times, and I was a bit worried it wasn't going to land at all. The pilot, I knew, was called Troy. I was expecting someone called Troy that did this for a living to be a pretty tough kind of guy. I was bawling my eyes out by the time the plane landed — a pretty emotional moment. So I thought, I've got to compose myself for Troy. I'm supposed to be the roughty toughty explorer type. The plane taxied up to where I was standing. The door opened. This guy jumped out. He's about that tall. He said, ""Hi, my name is Troy."" (Laughter). The co-pilot was a lady called Monica. She sat there in a sort of hand-knitted jumper. They were the least macho people I've ever met, but they made my day. Troy was smoking a cigarette on the ice; we took a few photos. He climbed up the ladder. He said, ""Just — just get in the back."" He threw his cigarette out as he got on the front, and I climbed in the back. (Laughter) Taxied up and down the runway a few times, just to flatten it out a bit, and he said, ""Right, I'm going to — I'm going to give it a go."" And he — I've now learned that this is standard practice, but it had me worried at the time. He put his hand on the throttle. You can see the control for the engines is actually on the roof of the cockpit. It's that little bar there. He put his hand on the throttle. Monica very gently put her hand sort of on top of his. I thought, ""God, here we go. We're, we're — this is all or nothing."" Rammed it forwards. Bounced down the runway. Just took off. One of the skis just clipped a pressure ridge at the end of the runway, banking. I could see into the cockpit, Troy battling the controls, and he just took one hand off, reached back, flipped a switch on the roof of the cockpit, and it was the ""fasten seat belt"" sign you can see on the wall. (Laughter) And only from the air did I see the big picture. Of course, when you're on the ice, you only ever see one obstacle at a time, whether it's a pressure ridge or there's a bit of water. This is probably why I didn't get into trouble about the length of my airstrip. I mean, it really was starting to break up. Why? I'm not an explorer in the traditional sense. I'm not skiing along drawing maps; everyone knows where the North Pole is. At the South Pole there's a big scientific base. There's an airstrip. There's a cafe and there's a tourist shop. For me, this is about exploring human limits, about exploring the limits of physiology, of psychology and of technology. They're the things that excite me. And it's also about potential, on a personal level. This, for me, is a chance to explore the limits — really push the limits of my own potential, see how far they stretch. And on a wider scale, it amazes me how people go through life just scratching the surface of their potential, just doing three or four or five percent of what they're truly capable of. So, on a wider scale, I hope that this journey was a chance to inspire other people to think about what they want to do with their potential, and what they want to do with the tiny amount of time we each have on this planet. That's as close as I can come to summing that up. The next question is, how do you answer the call of nature at minus 40? The answer, of course, to which is a trade secret — and the last question, what's next? As quickly as possible, if I have a minute left at the end, I'll go into more detail. What's next: Antarctica. It's the coldest, highest, windiest and driest continent on Earth. Late 1911, early 1912, there was a race to be the first to the South Pole: the heart of the Antarctic continent. If you include the coastal ice shelves, you can see that the Ross Ice Shelf — it's the big one down here — the Ross Ice Shelf is the size of France. Antarctica, if you include the ice shelves, is twice the size of Australia — it's a big place. And there's a race to get to the Pole between Amundsen, the Norwegian — Amundsen had dog sleds and huskies — and Scott, the British guy, Captain Scott. Scott had sort of ponies and some tractors and a few dogs, all of which went wrong, and Scott and his team of four people ended up on foot. They got to the Pole late January 1912 to find a Norwegian flag already there. There was a tent, a letter to the Norwegian king. And they turned around, headed back to the coast, and all five of them died on the return journey. Since then, no one has ever skied — this was 93 years ago — since then, no one has ever skied from the coast of Antarctica to the Pole and back. Every South Pole expedition you may have heard about is either flown out from the Pole or has used vehicles or dogs or kites to do some kind of crossing — no one has ever made a return journey. So that's the plan. Two of us are doing it. That's pretty much it. One final thought before I get to the toilet bit, is — is, I have a — and I meant to scan this and I've forgotten — but I have a — I have a school report. I was 13 years old, and it's framed above my desk at home. It says, ""Ben lacks sufficient impetus to achieve anything worthwhile."" (Laughter) (Applause) I think if I've learned anything, it's this: that no one else is the authority on your potential. You're the only person that decides how far you go and what you're capable of. Ladies and gentlemen, that's my story. Thank you very much."	這個人就是我，我是Ben Saunders我的專長是在寒冷的地方拖行重物。 在去年的5月11日我獨自站在地理北極點上在那幾乎比美國大1.5倍的區域5,500 平方英里裏面我是唯一的人類。全世界超過 2,000 人已經攀登過艾弗勒斯峰12 個人站上月球包括我在內，只有四個人曾獨自地滑雪橫跨北極圈。而我認為這是因為(掌聲)謝謝，我認為會獨自滑雪橫跨北極圈這是因為如同克里斯所說的，瘋了。這是一段考驗著人類忍受力極限的旅程。我滑行的距離相當於31趟馬拉松來回的距離10周內，滑行了800英里而且，我還拖著所需要的食物補給品、裝備和睡袋和一套換洗的內衣褲，這些是在將近3個月內所需的所有物品。(笑聲)在剩下來的16多分鐘內，我們將要繼續試著做的是試著回答三個問題。第一個是｢為什麼？｣第二個是你怎麼在零下40度的環境上廁所有人問：班，我知道在零下40度的環境下暴露出的皮膚可以在不到1分鐘內就被凍傷。所以，你是怎麼上廁所的？我現在先略過這些問題。後面我會一一回答第三個，你是如何突破這些困難的？下一個挑戰是甚麼呢？ 這一切都要追溯到2001年的時候。我的第一次遠征是跟著一個非常有經驗叫做潘哈道的傢伙我就像是一個學徒一樣當時我們試著從(這裡)北地群島一路滑到北極圈而北極（地理上的北極點）最令我著迷的是它正好就位在北冰洋的正中央就像這張地圖顯示想要到那裡，你就真的得滑過那冰凍的雪殼以及北冰洋上漂浮的冰層。我詢問過許多專家也讀過很多書籍，研究了地圖和圖表但是在第一天的早上我對我自己將面對的困難毫無概念 我當時23歲，和我同年的人都不曾嘗試過這樣的挑戰而且很快地幾乎所有可能出錯的事情都發生了。我們第二天就被一隻北極熊攻擊我的左腳大拇指長了凍瘡我們的食物也幾乎所剩無幾。飢餓讓我們的體重大幅減輕當時的氣候也極為反常。我們當時只有基本的通訊工具沒錢買衛星電話，所以只有高頻無線電你可以發現有兩隻滑雪桿從帳棚頂伸出來每一邊都有一根金屬線那就是我們無線電的天線兩個月內，我們與外界的通話時間少於兩個小時。最重要的是，我們的時間不夠我們滑行了400英里但離北極還剩200英里的時候，時間就不夠了。夏天已經降臨，冰雪也開始融化我們透過廣播向俄羅斯直升機駕駛通話他們說：你們的時間不夠嚕，小夥子們我們得把你們接上來。當時我覺得徹底地失敗了我是個失敗者 這是我一生中唯一的目標一個我夢想許久的目標，卻連邊都沒看到。在這次的旅途之中，每當旅途變得更加艱難時我就會在內心裡不斷重播兩個畫面不斷地激勵我繼續前進。第一個就是成功地抵達北極這件事我能夠想像自己走出直升機的艙門，響起搖滾樂當背景音樂我手握滑雪桿，上面掛著英國國旗，你知道的，隨風飄揚我甚至能看見自己親手把國旗插在北極上那會是一個光榮的時刻，背景的音樂也同時達到高潮。第二個畫面是我想像自己馬上又要到倫敦 Heathrow 機場那是一種身歷其境的幻想照相機的閃光燈不斷閃著有跑來要簽名的粉絲們和想找我出書的出版商。當然，這些都沒有發生我們沒到達北極，也沒因此賺到錢沒有錢找人宣傳就沒有人會知道這次的探險。 當我回到Heathrow時，我媽、我哥都在那裡等我我爺爺手裡還拿著一支小國旗(笑聲)就這樣，我回到母親的身邊我當時已經精疲力盡心靈受到很大的創傷，認為自己是個失敗者為了這趟探險還欠了一屁股債我每天躺在我媽家裡的沙發上看著電視節目。我哥發了一封短信是從辛普森家庭引述的，寫著：你竭盡全力，卻以悲慘失敗為結局所以結論是：一開始就別去做。(笑聲) 三年時間一晃而逝，我終於從沙發上爬起來並且開始計畫另一次探險這次我打算獨自一人從俄羅斯直接穿越地圖頂端到達北極圈，然後直接抵達加拿大。沒有人獨自完成橫跨北冰洋的壯舉兩名挪威人曾在2000年完成，卻沒有人能獨自穿越。享負盛名的義大利登山家Reinhold Messner在1995年曾嘗試過最後他在一周後被救起。他形容那次的旅程比攀登艾佛勒斯峰還危險10倍。所以，這大概也是我為什麼想要試一試的原因但我知道，想要平安的回家已經是件不容易的事更別說還要穿越北冰洋，最後到達加拿大我必須得有不同以往的作法。這表示我得先從熟練使用一種特別縮短且不到2公克的牙刷開始還要和世界上最頂尖的營養學家合作從頭開始去共同制定出一套全新革命性的營養策略一天6,000大卡。 去年2月，旅程展開了我們有一個廣大的支持團隊：一位攝影師和幾位後勤人員還有我的女朋友，她是名攝影師一開始進行的挺順利的。我們搭乘英國航空到莫斯科接下來是從西伯利亞到Krysnoyarsk的短程飛行搭乘一家俄羅斯國內航空公司，叫做 KrasAir (諧音很像墜機)K-R-A-S接下來，我們租了一架俄羅斯的老爺機飛到一個小鎮叫做Khatanga這裡應該是最後看得到人的地方了。我們的攝影師，一個只要坐飛機就會暈機的人在上飛機之前跑去問飛行員，我們得飛多久才能抵達那名俄羅斯飛行員面無表情地回答說：6個小時 — 如果我們還活著的話。(笑聲)然後我們就這樣到了 Khatanga有個笑話說：Khatanga並不是世界的盡頭但是在那裡你可以看見世界的盡頭。(笑聲)本來我們只打算待一個晚上，最後卻被困在那裏10天原因是喝完伏特加，酒醉後的酬勞糾紛我們被困在直升機飛行員和機主之間那裡也去不了。最後，第11天的早晨，我們解決了所有的問題把東西裝上直升機。兩架直升機一起飛到冰層邊緣在那裏將我放下。我們拍了一段45分鐘的超棒影片，以及攝影照片當直升機還在那裏時我透過衛星電話接受了採訪然後其他所有人登上了直升機碰的一聲，飛機艙門關上了，只留下我一個人。 現在我不知道透過文字是否能夠還原當時的感覺我當時滿腦子就是想著走回機艙門碰碰碰地拍打艙門，然後說：好啦大夥們，其實我還沒下定決心。(笑聲)更糟糕的是，你看這個白點螢幕右上角那個，那是滿月。 因為我們在俄羅斯被耽擱了一陣子滿月將帶來最大或最小的潮汐當你站在結冰的海洋表面時最高或最低的潮汐，意味著有趣的事情將要發生了 — 冰面將會移動如你們所看到的，我當時正拖著兩個雪橇和95天的食物和燃料總負重量是180公斤，大約是400磅。當冰面是水平或是幾乎水平時我可以同時拖著兩個雪橇當冰面不是水平時，我一點辦法也沒有我只能先拖一個，然後回頭再拖另外一個。嚴格來說，我穿越的是這些所謂的起伏冰面風、潮汐和洋流的壓力把冰擠碎推高了。NASA形容去年冰層的情況是有史以來最惡劣的而且冰層一直在飄浮移動。去年那10周內，我一個人滑雪時我逆風滑行了9周大部分時間我是被冰層帶著向後移動我的時速紀錄是負2.5英里。早晨起來收起帳棚，向北滑行了7個半小時後架起帳棚，然後我發現從出發的地方開始算我反而退後了2.5英里。簡直像是逆水行舟，我努力向前滑的速度還趕不上冰層後漂的速度 （影片）這是第22天。我正在帳篷裡準備出發天氣狀況很糟糕前夜晚上冰面往後移了5英里在探險的後期，冰層不在是問題因為已經沒甚麼冰了，到處都是一片水面我預料到這會發生，因為我知道北極圈正在暖化我知道這裡將會出現一片廣闊的水域，所以我準備了秘密武器這裡有關於仿生學的一些知識北極熊在北冰洋只知道向前走如果牠們遇到水面，牠們會游過去。所以我們和挪威科學小組合作，基於救生衣的原理設計了一套潛水裝我想，直升機飛行員也許會用得到當我爬進這件外套裡，它會從靴子蓋到手套還可以拉上來蓋住我的臉，形成密閉的一圈。這表示我可以在非常薄的冰層上面滑雪，如果我掉下去，也不會是世界末日。所以即使到了最糟的情況我可以跳到水裡，然後游過去還能拖著我的雪橇。這是相當先進的技術也相當好用。 我們去年做了另外一件與通信技術有關的令人興奮的事情。1912年，Shackleton的長途遠征中有一名隊員，叫做Thomas Orde-Lees他說：“2012年的探險家們，— 如果還有甚麼地方沒有人去過的話 —毫無疑問的會裝備小型手機配上無線望遠鏡。”好吧，Orde-Lees算錯了大概8年。這是我的小型無線電話衛星電話所謂的無線望遠鏡就是口袋裡的數位相機。我在北極的72天中每天從我的帳棚裡更新我的部落格發表一些日記片段傳送一些我的旅程中的訊息冰層的狀況、溫度以及每天的照片。要記得在2001年我們和外界交流的時間只有不到2小時的無線電通訊。而去年，我可以隨時更新探險的部落格在這個被稱作比艾佛勒斯峰還危險10倍的地方。那不完全是高科技這只是所謂雪茫裡的導航。當你迷失在厚重的迷霧、低雲層或風雪飄茫的時候你看不太清楚。 你只能看到綁在我雪橇上的黃色緞帶我利用風向作指引算是一種低科技跟高科技的另類結合。 我在5月11日抵達極點從俄羅斯到那裡一共花了我68天結果那邊什麼都沒有(笑聲)那裡連一個路標都沒有，整個淨空純粹因為那些是海冰，都是浮冰在那裏插個竿子，通常不用多久就飄往加拿大或格陵蘭這一切雖然我都很清楚，但是心裡還是有些期待這是很複雜的感受: 這階段氣候已經非常暖和了周遭有很多開放水域當然，憑一己之力到達目的地讓我很陶醉但是我也開始真正的明白繼續橫跨到加拿大剩下400英里旅途的成功機率就算在最好的狀態下，也很渺茫了。唯一能證明我抵達的證據是我GPS上的一張模糊照片，這小巧的衛星導航玩意兒你看得到這裡有個九跟一連串的零北緯90度—絕對的北極點。我拍了照。 坐在雪橇上，錄了一段影片日記。接著再拍幾張照片，然後拿出了衛星電話先讓電池在我腋下暖起來我撥了三個號碼。 我撥給我媽。我撥給我女朋友。 我撥給我贊助商的執行長。結果撥通到三個語音信箱(笑聲)（影片）九十很奇特的感受這整個地球在我的腳下旋轉。這一整個星球在我的之下最後我媽的號碼終於接通了。 她正在超市排隊結果她開始哭，叫我晚點再打給她。(笑聲) 經過北極點後我繼續滑了一星期試圖儘量地接近加拿大在狀況惡化到不得不停止之前這是我在冰上的最後一天我那時跟計畫團隊提議他們回我說 「班，狀況真的太危急了。你目前位置的南方已有一大片的開放水域。我們要來接你班，你可以找個降落跑道嗎？」這是帳篷外的景色在我接到這通晴天霹靂的電話的時候。我從沒打造過降落跑道。 我的探險計畫經理東尼說「班，聽好，你得找到500米的又平又厚又安全的冰地」我唯一能找到的一點冰花了我36小時才找到這塊合適的降落跑道我靠著滑雪撬量測，長度整整有473米我沒跟東尼說，更沒跟飛行員說我心裡想，就將就著用吧。（影片）噢 噢 噢 噢 噢 這跑道勉強可用，但是降落很驚險那飛機其實飛越了四次我那時有點擔心他會放棄降落。我知道那飛行員名叫特洛伊 我那時候預期靠這工作維生的傢伙是條壯漢飛機降落的時候，真是非常情緒化的一刻，我的雙眼都霧掉了我心裡想，我一定要在特洛伊面前維持好形象要維持堅毅的探險家形象飛機在我站的地方停住了門打開後，一個男的跳了下來，大約只有這麼高，他說「嗨，我是特洛伊。」(笑聲)副駕駛是個名叫莫妮卡的女士她穿著手工編織的毛衣坐在那他們是我看過最溫和的人，但是那天，他們是我的救星特洛伊- 特洛伊站在冰上抽菸我們拍了幾張照片他爬上梯子說「你坐後面」他把菸蒂丟出去後，爬到前座然後我就爬到後座了。(笑聲)飛機在跑道上來回滑行了幾次把冰壓扁一點，然後他說「好，現在來試一把」我現在知道這是標準程序，不過當時我很緊張他把手放在油門你可以看到引擎控制其實是在駕駛艙的艙頂就是那個桿子，他把手放在油門上莫妮卡輕輕地把手放在他的手上我心想「天啊，就賭這一把，不成功便成仁」往前推進後在跑道上亂跳後就起飛了其中一個雪橇剛好在跑道末端時扣到壓力脊我看到特洛伊在駕駛艙跟控制器奮戰這時候他放開一隻手往後邊伸過去彈開了駕駛艙頂的一個開關然後牆上亮起「請繫上安全帶」的燈號(笑聲)我在空中才看到了整個景象當然，當你身陷冰地，你只能看到眼前的障礙不管是壓力脊還是一攤水這或許是為什麼我沒因為跑道的長度而遭到責難我的意思是，這真的正在解體中 為什麼？ 我不是傳統定義中的探險家我不靠地圖滑雪大家都知道北極在哪南極有個很大的科學站 那裡有降落跑道也有咖啡館跟紀念品店對我而言，這是人類極限的探險是人體跟心理極限的探險也包含科技。 這些想法讓我非常振奮。就個人而言，這關乎潛力。對我來說，這是挑戰極限的機會真的挑戰我自己的潛力極限，看我能達到什麼程度。更廣泛的說，我很訝異許多人在一生中只有開發到自己潛力的表面只付出他們所有潛力中的百分之四到五。所以，我希望這趟探險是激發其他人的機會讓他們思在所擁有的短暫時間中要如何真正的應用自己的潛力在我們共同擁有的地球上這是我在尾聲所能做的總結。 下個問題是，你在零下40度如何接通電話答案當然是商業機密最後一個問題我的下一步呢? 我儘快說明如果我還有一分鐘，我再說詳細點下一步呢?南極它是地球上最冷、最高最廣闊也最乾燥的大陸。在1911年末，1912年初有個競賽看誰第一抵達南極點：南極大陸的核心如果把沿岸冰架算進去，你可以看到羅斯冰架是下面這一大塊- 羅斯冰架跟法國一樣大南極如果加上這些冰架是澳洲面積的兩倍之大，是一個大地方。話說這個到南極點的競賽中有挪威籍的阿孟森阿孟森有雪橇還有哈士奇還有英國籍的史考特船長史考特有小馬跟拖車還有幾條狗， 這些全部都出了狀況結果史考特的團隊最後只能步行他們在1912年一月抵達南極點看到了挪威國旗插在那那邊有頂帳篷，還有一封給挪威國王的信。於是他們轉頭，朝海岸前進回程途中，他們一行五人全數罹難在那之後，再也沒有人滑雪去南極。這是93年前的事，在那之後，無人再度挑戰從南極海岸到南極點的來回路程你知道的每個南極探險回程都有用某些工具幫助，像是用飛機、其他交通工具、或是狗，或是風箏等從沒有人成功走完回程的路途。這就是我的計畫。我們一共有兩個人大概就這樣了 最後，在我解釋上廁所的事情之前我本來要掃描起來跟大家分享的，但是我忘記了我13歲有一張成績單被框起來放在我家裏的書桌上方評語說道「班缺乏達到任何目標的動力。」(笑聲)(掌聲)如果我有學到任何東西的話，那就是沒有人有權力影響你的潛能。你是唯一可以決定自己能走多遠以及能完成什麼目標的人。先生及女士們，這就是我的故事，感謝你們非常謝謝你們
