Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_kacyra_ancient_wonders_captured_in_3d	"I'd like to start with a short story. It's about a little boy whose father was a history buff and who used to take him by the hand to visit the ruins of an ancient metropolis on the outskirts of their camp. They would always stop by to visit these huge winged bulls that used to guard the gates of that ancient metropolis, and the boy used to be scared of these winged bulls, but at the same time they excited him. And the dad used to use those bulls to tell the boy stories about that civilization and their work. Let's fast-forward to the San Francisco Bay Area many decades later, where I started a technology company that brought the world its first 3D laser scanning system. Let me show you how it works. Female Voice: Long range laser scanning by sending out a pulse that's a laser beam of light. The system measures the beam's time of flight, recording the time it takes for the light to hit a surface and make its return. With two mirrors, the scanner calculates the beam's horizontal and vertical angles, giving accurate x, y, and z coordinates. The point is then recorded into a 3D visualization program. All of this happens in seconds. Ben Kacyra: You can see here, these systems are extremely fast. They collect millions of points at a time with very high accuracy and very high resolution. A surveyor with traditional survey tools would be hard-pressed to produce maybe 500 points in a whole day. These babies would be producing something like ten thousand points a second. So, as you can imagine, this was a paradigm shift in the survey and construction as well as in reality capture industry. Approximately ten years ago, my wife and I started a foundation to do good, and right about that time, the magnificent Bamiyan Buddhas, hundred and eighty foot tall in Afghanistan, were blown up by the Taliban. They were gone in an instant. And unfortunately, there was no detailed documentation of these Buddhas. This clearly devastated me, and I couldn't help but wonder about the fate of my old friends, the winged bulls, and the fate of the many, many heritage sites all over the world. Both my wife and I were so touched by this that we decided to expand the mission of our foundation to include digital heritage preservation of world sites. We called the project CyArk, which stands for Cyber Archive. To date, with the help of a global network of partners, we've completed close to fifty projects. Let me show you some of them: Chichen Itza, Rapa Nui — and what you're seeing here are the cloud of points — Babylon, Rosslyn Chapel, Pompeii, and our latest project, Mt. Rushmore, which happened to be one of our most challenging projects. As you see here, we had to develop a special rig to bring the scanner up close and personal. The results of our work in the field are used to produce media and deliverables to be used by conservators and researchers. We also produce media for dissemination to the public — free through the CyArk website. These would be used for education, cultural tourism, etc. What you're looking at in here is a 3D viewer that we developed that would allow the display and manipulation of [the] cloud of points in real time, cutting sections through them and extracting dimensions. This happens to be the cloud of points for Tikal. In here you see a traditional 2D architectural engineering drawing that's used for preservation, and of course we tell the stories through fly-throughs. And here, this is a fly-through the cloud of points of Tikal, and here you see it rendered and photo-textured with the photography that we take of the site. And so this is not a video. This is actual 3D points with two to three millimeter accuracy. And of course the data can be used to develop 3D models that are very accurate and very detailed. And here you're looking at a model that's extracted from the cloud of points for Stirling Castle. It's used for studies, for visualization, as well as for education. And finally, we produce mobile apps that include narrated virtual tools. The more I got involved in the heritage field, the more it became clear to me that we are losing the sites and the stories faster than we can physically preserve them. Of course, earthquakes and all the natural phenomena — floods, tornadoes, etc. — take their toll. However, what occurred to me was human-caused destruction, which was not only causing a significant portion of the destruction, but actually it was accelerating. This includes arson, urban sprawl, acid rain, not to mention terrorism and wars. It was getting more and more apparent that we're fighting a losing battle. We're losing our sites and the stories, and basically we're losing a piece — and a significant piece — of our collective memory. Imagine us as a human race not knowing where we came from. Luckily, in the last two or three decades, digital technologies have been developing that have helped us to develop tools that we've brought to bear in the digital preservation, in our digital preservation war. This includes, for example, the 3D laser scanning systems, ever more powerful personal computers, 3D graphics, high-definition digital photography, not to mention the Internet. Because of this accelerated pace of destruction, it became clear to us that we needed to challenge ourselves and our partners to accelerate our work. And we created a project we call the CyArk 500 Challenge — and that is to digitally preserve 500 World Heritage Sites in five years. We do have the technology that's scaleable, and our network of global partners has been expanding and can be expanded at a rapid rate, so we're comfortable that this task can be accomplished. However, to me, the 500 is really just the first 500. In order to sustain our work into the future, we use technology centers where we partner with local universities and colleges to take the technology to them, whereby they then can help us with digital preservation of their heritage sites, and at the same time, it gives them the technology to benefit from in the future. Let me close with another short story. Two years ago, we were approached by a partner of ours to digitally preserve an important heritage site, a UNESCO heritage site in Uganda, the Royal Kasubi Tombs. The work was done successfully in the field, and the data was archived and publicly disseminated through the CyArk website. Last March, we received very sad news. The Royal Tombs had been destroyed by suspected arson. A few days later, we received a call: ""Is the data available and can it be used for reconstruction?"" Our answer, of course, was yes. Let me leave you with a final thought. Our heritage is much more than our collective memory — it's our collective treasure. We owe it to our children, our grandchildren and the generations we will never meet to keep it safe and to pass it along. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I'm staying here because we wanted to demonstrate to you the power of this technology and so, while I've been speaking, you have been scanned. (Laughter) The two wizards that I have that are behind the curtain will help me bring the results on the screen. (Applause) This is all in 3D and of course you can fly through the cloud of points. You can look at it from on top, from the ceiling. You can look from different vantage points, but I'm going to ask Doug to zoom in on an individual in the crowd, just to show the amount of detail that we can create. So you have been digitally preserved in about four minutes. (Laughter) I'd like to thank the wizards here. We were very lucky to have two of our partners participate in this: the Historic Scotland, and the Glasgow School of Art. I'd like to also thank personally the efforts of David Mitchell, who is the Director of Conservation at Historic Scotland. David. (Applause) And Doug Pritchard, who's the Head of Visualization at the Glasgow School of Art. Let's give them a hand. (Applause) Thank you."	"我想先和大家分享一個小故事。有一個小男孩，他爸爸是對歷史非常著迷。常常牽著小男孩的手去參觀他們營地附近一座古老王朝的遺跡。父子兩總是止步於那些曾守護著這個王朝的人首翼牛像前。小男孩對這些人首翼牛像，既害怕，又好奇。父親常常從這些神像開始告訴小男孩許多關於這個失落的王朝的故事。 現在讓我們快轉到數十年後的舊金山灣區。我在這裡創辦了一家科技公司並發明了世界上第一個3D 立體雷射掃描系統。請容我來為大家示範一下。背景女聲：遠程雷射掃描也就是放射出雷射光束的脈衝。系統測量光束行進的速度，紀錄光束點擊物體表面後反射回來所需的時間。掃描機用兩面鏡子計算出光束的水平及垂直的角度，並賦予準確的x, y, 和z 座標。接著，這個點的位置就會被紀錄進立體視像程序。這一切都是在瞬間內完成。Ben Kacyra: 由此可見，這些系統運作速度極其快。可以一次非常精確地收集數以千萬的清晰的座標。一個測量員以傳統的測量工具一天中充其量也只能測定 500 個座標。而這些小傢伙們卻能每秒測定大約一萬個座標。因此，大家可以想見，這對測量和營造業，甚至是實境捕捉圖像 (reality capture) 行業，都可稱得上是《典範移轉》的發明。 大約十年前，我太太跟我設立了一個慈善基金。與此同時，阿富汗高達一百八十英尺的巴米揚大佛雕像，被塔里班軍隊炸毀了。瞬間變為廢墟。很可惜的是，當時並沒有任何有關大佛的具體資料。這件事給我帶來很大的衝擊。我總是禁不住地關心著我的老朋友們，那些人首翼牛像，和世界各地成千上萬的歷史遺跡的命運。我太太和我在感歎之餘也決定將世界各地的遺跡保存數位化做為我們基金會的目標之一。我們將這個計畫稱為 CyArk，意思是 “網絡檔案"" (Cyber Archive)。 在來自全球各地夥伴們的協助下我們至今已完成將近50個計劃案。讓我來向各位介紹其中幾個計劃：墨西哥的奇琴伊察古蹟，復活節島的雕像 －－這裡各位所看到的是一團團的雷射光點－－巴比倫，羅斯林大教堂，龐貝古城，以及我們最新，也是最艱鉅的一項計劃，拉希莫山的總統石雕像。各位可以看見，我們必須開發一種特别的索具裝備將掃描儀器親自運送並裝設到適當位置。這些實地作業的結果被製成各種媒體資訊，以供古蹟保存工作者與研究人員參考使用。我們也透過 CyArk 網站為大眾提供免費的媒體服務。運用範圍包括教育、文化、旅遊等層面。 現在各位看到的是我們開發的 3D 立體視窗，透過它可以即時顯示及操作雷射光點形成的光團，並藉由橫切雷射光團來測定面積。這是測量馬雅提卡爾城邦的光團。各位看到的這是維護修葺用的傳統平面建築工程繪圖。而當然，我們則是透過動態的鳥瞰角度來檢視相同場景。這就是以動態的鳥瞰視角所測定的提卡爾城邦光團，根據我們實地拍攝的影像產生反映和圖像紋理所呈現出的結果。所以這並不是錄影實景。實際上這是由高達兩到三百萬個雷射光點所呈現的精確效果。這些資料當然能被用來製作相當精確且詳細的 3D 立體模型。你現在所見到的是從這些光點中凝聚塑造而成的斯特靈城堡模型。這個技術可應用於研究，視像化，教育等範疇。 最後，我們也研發具有解說功能的行動裝置。我在文化遺產工作領域投入越深，就越發意識到這些歷史古蹟及文化掌故消失的速度遠比我們採取具體行動去保護它們的速度更快得多。自然災害，好比地震、水災、龍捲風等等自然不在話下。但讓我更深感痛心的卻是人類自己一手造成的毀害，不但為數眾多，更日益增長。這些破壞包括縱火、城市過分的擴張，酸雨，更別提戰爭與恐怖活動。很顯然，這是場毫無勝算的爭戰。我們失去的不僅僅是遺址，和其背後的文化掌故。更失去了全人類共同擁有的一段珍貴的記憶。且讓我們想像一下，身為人類卻對自己的出處所知不詳。 幸運的是，在過去的二三十年間，日新月異的數位科技讓我們發展了各種工具在數位保存戰中助了我們一臂之力。這些工具包括了剛剛所提到的 3D 立體雷射掃描系統，功能日益強大的個人電腦，3D 立體繪圖，高清數位攝像，當然還有網際網路。而這加劇的毀壞速度，亦清楚的警惕著我們本身和我所有的夥伴們該更加速我們的步伐。因此，我們創立了一個專案計劃名為 “ CyArk 500 挑戰計畫” －－事實上就是爭取在5年內，以數位技術保存500座世界歷史遺跡。 我們擁有靈活的科技，而遍佈全球的合作夥伴數目也正以飛快的速度增加之中。因此我們非常有信心能將計畫順利完成。不過對我而言，我們目標所說的500僅僅是個開始。為了繼續維持我們的工作，我們與本地的大專院校在科技中心互相合作。我們將科技知識傳授給他們，而他們則幫我們一起將文化遺跡用數位系統保存起來。與此同時，他們也可從從中偷師在將來派上用場。 結束前讓我再為大家說個小故事。兩年前，一位合作夥伴主動向我們尋求協助，希望能將一座非常重要的歷史遺跡 —座落在烏干達的聯合國教科文組織世界遺產卡蘇比王墓 — 以數位技術加以保存。我們成功地完成了實地工作，所有資料也完整無缺地存檔，並透過 CyArk 的網站向大眾公開。去年三月，我們接到了一個很令人遺憾的消息。王墓懷疑被縱火摧毀了。幾天後，我們接到一通電話：是否有資料可供我們參考，以重建王墓？我們當然雙手奉上。 讓我在此作一個小結。文化遺產除了是我們共有的回憶之外 —更是我們共有的財富。為了我們的子孫，未來無法謀面的後代們，我們有責任要好好的保存它們並且世代相傳。謝謝各位。 (掌聲)謝謝。 謝謝。 謝謝。 我還留在這裡是因為我們希望向各位示範這項科技的威力。所以剛才我在台上演講時，在座各位都已經被掃描下來了。(笑聲)兩位我躲在幕後的小精靈們將會幫我把結果顯示在屏幕上。(掌聲) 這全都是以 3D 立體形式呈現的而且各位可以用鳥瞰角度檢視這些光團。你可以從屋頂上方向下俯瞰。也可以從不同的視點觀看。不過我要請道格把鏡頭拉近人群中的某一位觀眾，以便示範我們所能呈現的細節之微。所以說各位在4分鐘內都已被數位化保存了。(笑聲) 我也要謝謝我的精靈們。我們很榮幸與兩家機構合作：蘇格蘭古蹟中心，及格拉斯哥藝術學院。我也想特別對蘇格蘭古蹟維護中心總監大衛米契爾的付出，致上我個人的感謝之意。大衛。(掌聲)以及道格皮查爾，格拉斯哥藝術學院的視像化部門的負責人。請大家給他們熱烈的掌聲。 (掌聲) (謝謝)"
