Talk	en	zh-tw
ben_goldacre_battling_bad_science	"So I'm a doctor, but I kind of slipped sideways into research, and now I'm an epidemiologist. And nobody really knows what epidemiology is. Epidemiology is the science of how we know in the real world if something is good for you or bad for you. And it's best understood through example as the science of those crazy, wacky newspaper headlines. And these are just some of the examples. These are from the Daily Mail. Every country in the world has a newspaper like this. It has this bizarre, ongoing philosophical project of dividing all the inanimate objects in the world into the ones that either cause or prevent cancer. Here are some of the things they said cause cancer: divorce, Wi-Fi, toiletries and coffee. Some things they say prevent cancer: crusts, red pepper, licorice and coffee. So you can see there are contradictions. Coffee both causes and prevents cancer. As you start to read on, you can see that maybe there's some political valence behind some of this. For women, housework prevents breast cancer, but for men, shopping could make you impotent. (Laughter) So we know that we need to start unpicking the science behind this. And what I hope to show is that unpicking the evidence behind dodgy claims isn't a kind of nasty, carping activity; it's socially useful. But it's also an extremely valuable explanatory tool, because real science is about critically appraising the evidence for somebody else's position. That's what happens in academic journals, it's what happens at academic conferences — the Q&A session after a postdoc presents data is often a bloodbath. And nobody minds that; we actively welcome it. It's like a consenting intellectual S&M activity. (Laughter) So what I'm going to show you is all of the main things, all of the main features of my discipline, evidence-based medicine. And I will talk you through all of these and demonstrate how they work, exclusively using examples of people getting stuff wrong. We'll start with the absolute weakest form of evidence known to man, and that is authority. In science, we don't care how many letters you have after your name — we want to know what your reasons are for believing something. How do you know that something is good for us or bad for us? But we're also unimpressed by authority because it's so easy to contrive. This is somebody called Dr. Gillian McKeith, PhD, or, to give her full medical title, Gillian McKeith. (Laughter) Again, every country has somebody like this. She is our TV diet guru. She has five series of prime-time television, giving out very lavish and exotic health advice. She, it turns out, has a non-accredited correspondence course PhD from somewhere in America. She also boasts that she's a certified professional member of the American Association of Nutritional Consultants, which sounds very glamorous; you get a certificate. This one belongs to my dead cat, Hettie. She was a horrible cat. You go to the website, fill out the form, give them $60, it arrives in the post. That's not the only reason we think this person is an idiot. She also says things like eat lots of dark green leaves, they contain chlorophyll and really oxygenate your blood. And anybody who's done school biology remembers that chlorophyll and chloroplasts only make oxygen in sunlight, and it's quite dark in your bowels after you've eaten spinach. Next, we need proper science, proper evidence. So: ""Red wine can help prevent breast cancer."" This is a headline from The Daily Telegraph in the UK. ""A glass of red wine a day could help prevent breast cancer."" So you find this paper, and find that it is a real piece of science. It's a description of the changes in the behavior of one enzyme when you drip a chemical extracted from some red grape skin onto some cancer cells in a dish on a bench in a laboratory somewhere. And that's a really useful thing to describe in a scientific paper. But on the question of your own personal risk of getting breast cancer if you drink red wine, it tells you absolutely bugger all. Actually, it turns out that your risk of breast cancer increases slightly with every amount of alcohol you drink. So what we want are studies in real human people. And here's another example. This is from Britain's ""leading"" diet nutritionist in the Daily Mirror, our second-biggest selling newspaper. ""An Australian study in 2001 found that olive oil, in combination with fruits, vegetables and pulses, offers measurable protection against skin wrinklings,"" and give the advice: ""If you eat olive oil and vegetables, you'll have fewer wrinkles."" They helpfully tell you how to find the paper, and what you find is an observational study. Obviously, nobody has been able to go back to 1930, get all the people born in one maternity unit, and half of them eat lots of fruit and veg and olive oil, half of them eat McDonald's, and then we see how many wrinkles you've got later. You have to take a snapshot of how people are now. And what you find is, of course: people who eat veg and olive oil have fewer wrinkles. But that's because people who eat fruit and veg and olive oil are freaks — they're not normal, they're like you; they come to events like this. (Laughter) They're posh, they're wealthy, less likely to have outdoor jobs, less likely to do manual labor, they have better social support, are less likely to smoke; for a host of fascinating, interlocking social, political and cultural reasons, they're less likely to have wrinkles. That doesn't mean it's the vegetables or olive oil. (Laughter) So ideally, what you want to do is a trial. People think they're familiar with the idea of a trial. Trials are old; the first one was in the Bible, Daniel 1:12. It's straightforward: take a bunch of people, split them in half, treat one group one way, the other group, the other way. A while later, you see what happened to each of them. I'm going to tell you about one trial, which is probably the most well-reported trial in the UK news media over the past decade. This is the trial of fish oil pills. The claim: fish oil pills improve school performance and behavior in mainstream children. They said, ""We did a trial. All the previous ones were positive, this one will be too."" That should ring alarm bells: if you know the answer to your trial, you shouldn't be doing one. Either you've rigged it by design, or you've got enough data so there's no need to randomize people anymore. So this is what they were going to do in their trial: They were taking 3,000 children, they were going to give them these huge fish oil pills, six of them a day, and then, a year later, measure their school exam performance and compare their performance against what they predicted their exam performance would have been if they hadn't had the pills. Now, can anybody spot a flaw in this design? (Laughter) And no professors of clinical trial methodology are allowed to answer this question. So there's no control group. But that sounds really techie, right? That's a technical term. The kids got the pills, and their performance improved. What else could it possibly be if it wasn't the pills? They got older; we all develop over time. And of course, there's the placebo effect, one of the most fascinating things in the whole of medicine. It's not just taking a pill and performance or pain improving; it's about our beliefs and expectations, the cultural meaning of a treatment. And this has been demonstrated in a whole raft of fascinating studies comparing one kind of placebo against another. So we know, for example, that two sugar pills a day are a more effective treatment for gastric ulcers than one sugar pill. Two sugar pills a day beats one a day. That's an outrageous and ridiculous finding, but it's true. We know from three different studies on three different types of pain that a saltwater injection is a more effective treatment than a sugar pill, a dummy pill with no medicine in it, not because the injection or pills do anything physically to the body, but because an injection feels like a much more dramatic intervention. So we know that our beliefs and expectations can be manipulated, which is why we do trials where we control against a placebo, where one half of the people get the real treatment, and the other half get placebo. But that's not enough. What I've just shown you are examples of the very simple and straightforward ways that journalists and food supplement pill peddlers and naturopaths can distort evidence for their own purposes. What I find really fascinating is that the pharmaceutical industry uses exactly the same kinds of tricks and devices, but slightly more sophisticated versions of them, in order to distort the evidence they give to doctors and patients, and which we use to make vitally important decisions. So firstly, trials against placebo: everybody thinks a trial should be a comparison of your new drug against placebo. But in a lot of situations that's wrong; often, we already have a good treatment currently available. So we don't want to know that your alternative new treatment is better than nothing, but that it's better than the best available treatment we have. And yet, repeatedly, you consistently see people doing trials still against placebo. And you can get licensed to bring your drug to market with only data showing that it's better than nothing, which is useless for a doctor like me trying to make a decision. But that's not the only way you can rig your data. You can also rig your data by making the thing you compare your new drug against really rubbish. You can give the competing drug in too low a dose, so people aren't properly treated. You can give the competing drug in too high a dose, so people get side effects. And this is exactly what happened with antipsychotic medication for schizophrenia. Twenty years ago, a new generation of antipsychotic drugs were brought in; the promise was they would have fewer side effects. So people set about doing trials of the new drugs against the old drugs. But they gave the old drugs in ridiculously high doses: 20 milligrams a day of haloperidol. And it's a foregone conclusion if you give a drug at that high a dose, it will have more side effects, and your new drug will look better. Ten years ago, history repeated itself, when risperidone, the first of the new-generation antipsychotic drugs, came off copyright, so anybody could make copies. Everybody wanted to show their drug was better than risperidone, so you see trials comparing new antipsychotic drugs against risperidone at eight milligrams a day. Again, not an insane dose, not an illegal dose, but very much at the high end of normal. So you're bound to make your new drug look better. And so it's no surprise that overall, industry-funded trials are four times more likely to give a positive result than independently sponsored trials. But — and it's a big but — (Laughter) it turns out, when you look at the methods used by industry-funded trials, that they're actually better than independently sponsored trials. And yet, they always manage to get the result that they want. So how does this work? (Laughter) How can we explain this strange phenomenon? Well, it turns out that what happens is the negative data goes missing in action; it's withheld from doctors and patients. And this is the most important aspect of the whole story. It's at the top of the pyramid of evidence. We need to have all of the data on a particular treatment to know whether or not it really is effective. There are two different ways you can spot whether some data has gone missing. You can use statistics or you can use stories. I prefer statistics, so that's what I'll do first. This is a funnel plot. A funnel plot is a very clever way of spotting if small negative trials have disappeared, have gone missing in action. This is a graph of all of the trials done on a particular treatment. As you go up towards the top of the graph, what you see is each dot is a trial. As you go up, those are bigger trials, so they've got less error; they're less likely to be randomly false positives or negatives. So they all cluster together. The big trials are closer to the true answer. Then as you go further down at the bottom, what you can see is, on this side, spurious false negatives, and over on this side, spurious false positives. If there is publication bias, if small negative trials have gone missing in action, you can see it on one of these graphs. So you see here that the small negative trials that should be on the bottom left have disappeared. This is a graph demonstrating the presence of publication bias in studies of publication bias. And I think that's the funniest epidemiology joke you will ever hear. (Laughter) That's how you can prove it statistically. But what about stories? Well, they're heinous, they really are. This is a drug called reboxetine. This is a drug which I, myself, have prescribed to patients. And I'm a very nerdy doctor. I hope I go out of my way to try and read and understand all the literature. I read the trials on this. They were all positive, all well-conducted. I found no flaw. Unfortunately, it turned out, that many of these trials were withheld. In fact, 76 percent of all of the trials that were done on this drug were withheld from doctors and patients. Now if you think about it, if I tossed a coin a hundred times, and I'm allowed to withhold from you the answers half the times, then I can convince you that I have a coin with two heads. If we remove half of the data, we can never know what the true effect size of these medicines is. And this is not an isolated story. Around half of all of the trial data on antidepressants has been withheld, but it goes way beyond that. The Nordic Cochrane Group were trying to get ahold of the data on that to bring it all together. The Cochrane Groups are an international nonprofit collaboration that produce systematic reviews of all of the data that has ever been shown. And they need to have access to all of the trial data. But the companies withheld that data from them. So did the European Medicines Agency — for three years. This is a problem that is currently lacking a solution. And to show how big it goes, this is a drug called Tamiflu, which governments around the world have spent billions and billions of dollars on. And they spend that money on the promise that this is a drug which will reduce the rate of complications with flu. We already have the data showing it reduces the duration of your flu by a few hours. But I don't care about that, governments don't care. I'm sorry if you have the flu, I know it's horrible, but we're not going to spend billions of dollars trying to reduce the duration of your flu symptoms by half a day. We prescribe these drugs. We stockpile them for emergencies on the understanding they'll reduce the number of complications, which means pneumonia and death. The infectious diseases Cochrane Group, which are based in Italy, has been trying to get the full data in a usable form out of the drug companies, so they can make a full decision about whether this drug is effective or not, and they've not been able to get that information. This is undoubtedly the single biggest ethical problem facing medicine today. We cannot make decisions in the absence of all of the information. So it's a little bit difficult from there to spin in some kind of positive conclusion. But I would say this: I think that sunlight is the best disinfectant. All of these things are happening in plain sight, and they're all protected by a force field of tediousness. And I think, with all of the problems in science, one of the best things that we can do is to lift up the lid, finger around at the mechanics and peer in. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	雖然我是醫生，但無心插柳做了點研究所以現在我也是個流行病學家沒有人真正知道流行病學是什麼流行病學是一種科學，讓我們知道在生活中什麼東西對你好，或對你不好而有例可循最是簡單明瞭好比誇張、奇怪的新聞標題就是一例這裡有些例子 它們來自《每日郵報》，全世界各國都有類似的報紙這類報紙一直都有個古怪、看似有理的企畫就是將世界上所有不會動的物件都分別歸類成致癌物或防癌物。這些是一部分最近據說會致癌的玩意兒離婚、無線網路、衛生用品和咖啡而這些則是據說能防癌的東西麵包皮、紅椒、甘草和咖啡我想你看到了矛盾的地方咖啡同時致癌也防癌當你開始讀下去，你會發現這些報導說不定別有用心。拿女性來說，做家事能預防乳癌但對男性而言，購物會使他們性無能所以，我們要開始揭露這一切背後的科學真相 我想要做的是揭穿那些騙人的說法以及那些假象背後的證據，這並非卑鄙、催毛求疵的事這對社會有用，同時，也是個極具價值的解說工具。因為真正的科學是批判地評斷他人提出的證據這就是在學術期刊，以及學術研討論上，上演的戲碼。有時在發言完後的問答時間就像場血戰。但沒人在乎，我們還熱烈歡迎。就像是雙方同意，來場學術上的激烈性愛一樣。所以，接下來要讓各位看的是我的研究領域也就是流行病學的主要特色－循證醫學。我會一步步的講解，說明他們是如何運作的，但不會拿出錯的事情做為例子。 一開始，我們先談最不堪一擊的證據來源就是權威。在科學界，我們不在乎你名字後面有多少頭銜，我們想知道，你發表某樣事物的背後有什麼理由。你怎麼知道那對我們是好，還是不好？但，因為權威容易偽造，所以我們對權威並不有什麼感覺。這是麥基絲醫生博士或者，給她一個完整的醫學頭銜，吉輪 ●麥基絲。(笑聲)每個國家都有像這個的一個人。她是電視上的健康飲食大師，她有多達五個黃金時段的系列節目分享又豐富，又充滿異國風情的保健建議結果，她的學歷只是在美國某一大學的非公認的函授課程博士。她也自豪地說她是美國營養顧問協會的認證專業會員聽起來是多麼吸引人又讓人興奮你有張結業證書，就什麼都有了這是我的貓，海地，她已經過世了，一隻很不乖的貓你只要上網，填表格，交六十塊給他們，然後證書就郵寄給你但，這不是我們覺得這傢伙是笨蛋的唯一理由她也會說些話像是你該吃很多的深綠色蔬菜，因為深綠色蔬菜有大量葉綠素，可讓血液充滿氧氣但，任何在學校做過生物實驗的人都記得葉綠素及葉綠粒只透過光合作用來製造氧氣而當你把菠菜吃掉時，身體裡其實是黑暗的 接著，我們需要正確的科學、有理的證據來證實「紅酒可預防乳癌。」這是英國的《每日電訊》的頭條新聞「一天一杯紅酒能幫助預防乳癌。」接著你去找這則新聞，你會發現這確實有科學佐證這是描述某實驗室的工作臺上的培養皿，把紅葡萄皮上所萃取的化學物質，滴到一些癌細胞上，酵素會產生變化就科學報告而言，這樣的實驗描述很有用，但，一問到喝紅酒和得到乳癌的風險為何，這樣的實驗描述什麼屁都沒告訴你。事實上，你得到乳癌的風險會隨著你喝的含酒精飲料一點一點的增加因此，我們要看的，是拿真人做的研究 這是另一個例子來自英國的《每日鏡報》，一位頗具影響力的飲食營養學家《每日鏡報》是英國銷售量第二的報紙「2001年，澳洲當地的實驗發現若把橄欖油與水果、蔬菜，或豆類植物搭配食用，將對皮膚防皺有相當顯著效果。」然後，他們就給妳這樣的建議：「如果把橄欖油及蔬菜搭配著吃，你的皺紋會比較少。」他們也很熱心地告訴你文獻出處而在你看完報告後，你就會知道這是份觀測研究很顯然地，沒人有辦法回到1930年把同個產科所有出生的小孩找來其中一半給他們吃水果、蔬菜和橄欖油另一半給他們吃麥當勞之後，看他們的皺紋誰多誰少 你得拍照記錄人們的樣子當然，你會發現到吃蔬菜和橄欖油的人，確實皺紋較少但，這是因為那些吃水果、蔬菜，橄欖油的人是怪胎他們不正常，就像你們一樣他們會出席TED這樣的活動他們受歡迎、有錢、也不太可能做室外工作也不太從事勞力的工作他們在社會上獲得較多的支持，他們不太抽菸－因此，這麼多關於社會、政治，文化等等原因，這些原因這麼棒，又如此環環相扣而這些人，也就不太可能有皺紋這並不意味著蔬菜還是橄欖油的功勞 (笑聲) 所以，做實驗往往是最理想的選擇大家都認為，他們對於實驗都得很熟實驗是個老話題。第一個是出現在聖經－但以理書，第一章十二節這試驗很簡單，你找一群人，把他們分兩組這兩組人，你都用不同的方法去對待他們過了一下子之後你就看會他們會發生什麼事現在我要和你說的這個試驗在過去十年的英國新聞媒體報導中可以算是名聲相當不錯的試驗這是個魚肝油的試驗魚肝油宣稱，可以改善大部分小孩的學業表現及學校行為他們說：「我們做了個試驗而之前的試驗結果都是好的，我想我們的也會是好的。」會這樣說，就是個警訊當你已經知道實驗的結果，那還做它幹什麼無論這試驗只是隨意起草或是你已有充分的數據，而你已不需要隨機挑選更多的試驗者 實驗就是這樣進行的他們找了三千位孩童並給孩童吃很多的魚肝油一天吃六顆一年後，他們來測量孩童的學業表現並把得來的結果和這些孩童沒有吃魚肝油的預期結果來兩相比較有人現在看出這實驗設計的缺失了嗎？所有臨床試驗方法的教授都不準回答這問題這實驗沒有對照組聽起來像電子迷才會做的事那是一個專業術語孩童吃了魚肝油，他們的學業表現進步了 除了魚肝油，還有什麼其它的原因嗎?他們隨著時間長大了當然，還有安慰劑的影響安慰劑的效果是所有藥品中，最令人神往的一個不是吃藥而已，然後你的表現變好，疼痛舒緩如此而已是我們的信念，以及期望這就是治療的文化定譯許多很好的研究也和安慰劑的效果做了對照實驗舉例來說，一天吃兩顆糖的人較不容易得到胃潰瘍和吃一顆糖的人相比一天吃兩顆糖比吃一顆糖更有用儘管這個發現讓人覺得奇怪又好笑，但這是事實從三種不同疼痛的研究當中，我們瞭解注射生理食鹽水來治療疼痛，是個較有效的方法，相較於吃糖果，安慰劑...等等沒有任何藥品成分的東西而這並非是注射或吃藥對生體產生了什麼影響而是人們覺得注射是種更強力的手段我們曉得自己的信念，期待是可被操控的這也為什麼我們做實驗時需要拿安慰劑來對照一半的人接受真正的治療另一半的人則使用安慰劑 但，這樣是不夠的目前為止，我給你們看的實驗例子的方法，都很簡單易懂簡單到記者、食物供應商、糖果小販以及自然療法醫生都可以根據他們自己的目的，來曲解證據令我相當驚訝的是那些醫藥工業他們使用相同的方法、設備只不過把證據扭曲成較複雜的版本而醫生及病人，都根據那些扭曲的證據做出攸關性命的重要決定 首先，大家都認為一個和安慰劑對照的實驗，應該是拿新藥品和安慰劑來相比較但，在很多情況下，這樣的方法是錯的因為，我們通常已經有了一個可行的良好療法我們就不需要知道那可有可無的替代療法我們想知道的是，替代療法是否比現行的最佳療法更好然而，你卻看到人們一再地拿安慰劑來對照做實驗只要你得到許可證，你的藥品就可以上市藥品背後的數據，證明這種藥物可有可無對一個像我這樣需要做決定的醫生來說是沒有任何用處的 而這不是唯一可以扭曲數據的方法你還可以把和新藥品要比較的物品弄得像垃圾一樣毫無價值在使用競爭者的藥品時，你也可以只給予很少的劑量，而人們自然沒有辦法治療好或是你把劑量提高這樣就會產生副作用而這正是發生在治療人格分裂症的抗精神病療程的事情二十年前，從國外引進了一批新的抗精神病藥物這些藥物都保證副作用比現有的藥物還少所以人們就開始拿這些新的藥物和舊的藥物做實驗比較但，他們卻把舊的藥物劑量提高很多－一天要吃20毫克的施寧錠(抗精神病藥物)結論可想而知要是你把一種藥物的劑量開這麼高它的副作用當然比新的藥物還要多 過去十年，歷史不斷重演。有趣的是當那一批抗精神病藥品，像是理思必妥產權到期時，人人都可以自己做這些藥物大家想證明，他們自己做的藥比理思必妥還好所以你會看到，有一堆的抗精神病藥物拿來和一天八毫克的理思必妥做比較八毫克不是多得很瘋狂，也沒有超出合法劑量但幾乎游走在法律邊緣了所以，你自己做的藥物當然比那些藥來的好果不其然藥商贊助的實驗比那些獨立出資的實驗，得到陽性結果機率高出四倍 但是，但但但但是(笑聲)最後卻發現那些藥商贊助實驗所使用的方法確實是比獨立出資的實驗要來的好儘管如此，他們仍設法去得到他們想要的結果怎麼做？這樣如此奇怪的現象該如何解釋？原來，那些負面的數據在實驗進行中被隱匿起來。醫生和病人都不知情而這正是整件事情的重點所在證據都在這裡任一特定的療法，我們需要所有的資訊來知道該療法是否有效而有兩種不同的方法可以讓你知道是否有數據在實驗中不見了妳可以用統計數字，或是實例我個人偏好統計數字，所以我先講這個 這個圖表叫做漏斗圖漏斗圖的設計非常聰明要是有少量的負面結果不見的話，你會看得出來這圖表上，就是針對某一種醫療法的所有實驗隨著你接近圖表的頂端你看到的每一個點，都是一個實驗越往上看，那些實驗規模越大，也就越少出錯也就是越少隨便的假陽性效果、假的陰性效果他們全聚在一塊規模較大的實驗，都較接近事實而你越往底部看你就會看到捏造的假陰性結果而另一邊，你也是看到捏造的假陽性結果要是有發表篇倚(有統計同的結果更容易被發表)或是少量的負面結果在過程中消失你在這些圖表都會看到所以，那些本該在左下角的負面結果全都消失了這圖表展示的，是關於發表篇倚的研究中所出現的發表篇倚我認為那是個流行病學的笑話，而且，我想這是你聽過的笑話中最好笑的一個 剛剛說的，就是說明該如何透過統記證明那麼實例呢？實例就比較可惡了，真的很可惡。這藥叫做瑞波西汀（抗憂鬱劑）我過去曾開過這種藥給病人而我是個蠻書呆子的醫生我盡力去嘗試閱讀，並瞭解所有的文獻我看了這些實驗，他們都是陽性的，也都進行得很好我沒發現什麼缺失不幸地是許多實驗並沒有公布出來事實上，有76%關於這項藥品的實驗並沒有讓醫生或是病人知道現在，請你想一想要是我擲一枚銅板一百次而其中有一半的答案我都不和你說那麼，我就有辦法說服你這枚銅板兩面都是人頭若我們刪除一半的數據那我們永遠都不曉得，這些藥品實際的效果為何 而這類的實例都是息息相關的大約有一半抗憂鬱藥物的實驗至今仍未公佈甚至還超出一半而科克倫小組，正致力於獲得那些數據來整合所有的事情科克倫小組是個國際性，非營利的合作機構他們有系統地提供過去的數據回顧而他們需要管道，來獲得所有的數據但這些公司不讓他們知道那些數據歐洲藥物管理局也是如此已經達三年了 這個問題現在仍少個解決方法要讓你們知道問題的嚴重性。來看看克流感世界上許多政府花了數十億的金錢在克流感上這些政府都承諾克流感可以降低流感併發症的比率我們既有的數據顯示克流感是降低流感的持續時間幾小時但我不在乎這個，政府也不在乎如果你得到流感，我很抱歉，我知道那很難受但，我們絕不會花了幾十億只是要去縮短流感症狀的持續時間而已還只減少個半天左右我們會開這些藥，也會貯存他們為了緊急狀況因為我們瞭解，他們可以降低併發症可能性併發症可能是肺炎，或是死亡以義大利為根基的科克倫小組，正努力從藥品公司想辦法獲得感染疾病的完整數據而這些數據都是正確可用的如此一來，科克倫小組才能決定一個藥品有效與否然而，他們卻無法獲得那樣的資訊無庸置疑照是現藥品面臨的一個嚴重的道德問題若沒有這些資訊我們便沒有辦法下決定 儘管，現在要下個有希望的結論是有些困難但，我會說我認為，陽光是最好的消毒劑我們眼前看到所發生的事物他們都被我們習以為常的陽光給保護著儘管現今科學界存在著這些問題我認為，我們最好能做的一件事就是掀開事物的表層仔細探查，檢視一番 謝謝你們 (掌聲)
