Talk	en	zh-tw
benoit_mandelbrot_fractals_the_art_of_roughness	"Thank you very much. Please excuse me for sitting; I'm very old. (Laughter) Well, the topic I'm going to discuss is one which is, in a certain sense, very peculiar because it's very old. Roughness is part of human life forever and forever, and ancient authors have written about it. It was very much uncontrollable, and in a certain sense, it seemed to be the extreme of complexity, just a mess, a mess and a mess. There are many different kinds of mess. Now, in fact, by a complete fluke, I got involved many years ago in a study of this form of complexity, and to my utter amazement, I found traces — very strong traces, I must say — of order in that roughness. And so today, I would like to present to you a few examples of what this represents. I prefer the word roughness to the word irregularity because irregularity — to someone who had Latin in my long-past youth — means the contrary of regularity. But it is not so. Regularity is the contrary of roughness because the basic aspect of the world is very rough. So let me show you a few objects. Some of them are artificial. Others of them are very real, in a certain sense. Now this is the real. It's a cauliflower. Now why do I show a cauliflower, a very ordinary and ancient vegetable? Because old and ancient as it may be, it's very complicated and it's very simple, both at the same time. If you try to weigh it — of course it's very easy to weigh it, and when you eat it, the weight matters — but suppose you try to measure its surface. Well, it's very interesting. If you cut, with a sharp knife, one of the florets of a cauliflower and look at it separately, you think of a whole cauliflower, but smaller. And then you cut again, again, again, again, again, again, again, again, again, and you still get small cauliflowers. So the experience of humanity has always been that there are some shapes which have this peculiar property, that each part is like the whole, but smaller. Now, what did humanity do with that? Very, very little. (Laughter) So what I did actually is to study this problem, and I found something quite surprising. That one can measure roughness by a number, a number, 2.3, 1.2 and sometimes much more. One day, a friend of mine, to bug me, brought a picture and said, ""What is the roughness of this curve?"" I said, ""Well, just short of 1.5."" It was 1.48. Now, it didn't take me any time. I've been looking at these things for so long. So these numbers are the numbers which denote the roughness of these surfaces. I hasten to say that these surfaces are completely artificial. They were done on a computer, and the only input is a number, and that number is roughness. So on the left, I took the roughness copied from many landscapes. To the right, I took a higher roughness. So the eye, after a while, can distinguish these two very well. Humanity had to learn about measuring roughness. This is very rough, and this is sort of smooth, and this perfectly smooth. Very few things are very smooth. So then if you try to ask questions: ""What's the surface of a cauliflower?"" Well, you measure and measure and measure. Each time you're closer, it gets bigger, down to very, very small distances. What's the length of the coastline of these lakes? The closer you measure, the longer it is. The concept of length of coastline, which seems to be so natural because it's given in many cases, is, in fact, complete fallacy; there's no such thing. You must do it differently. What good is that, to know these things? Well, surprisingly enough, it's good in many ways. To begin with, artificial landscapes, which I invented sort of, are used in cinema all the time. We see mountains in the distance. They may be mountains, but they may be just formulae, just cranked on. Now it's very easy to do. It used to be very time-consuming, but now it's nothing. Now look at that. That's a real lung. Now a lung is something very strange. If you take this thing, you know very well it weighs very little. The volume of a lung is very small, but what about the area of the lung? Anatomists were arguing very much about that. Some say that a normal male's lung has an area of the inside of a basketball [court]. And the others say, no, five basketball [courts]. Enormous disagreements. Why so? Because, in fact, the area of the lung is something very ill-defined. The bronchi branch, branch, branch and they stop branching, not because of any matter of principle, but because of physical considerations: the mucus, which is in the lung. So what happens is that in a way you have a much bigger lung, but it branches and branches down to distances about the same for a whale, for a man and for a little rodent. Now, what good is it to have that? Well, surprisingly enough, amazingly enough, the anatomists had a very poor idea of the structure of the lung until very recently. And I think that my mathematics, surprisingly enough, has been of great help to the surgeons studying lung illnesses and also kidney illnesses, all these branching systems, for which there was no geometry. So I found myself, in other words, constructing a geometry, a geometry of things which had no geometry. And a surprising aspect of it is that very often, the rules of this geometry are extremely short. You have formulas that long. And you crank it several times. Sometimes repeatedly: again, again, again, the same repetition. And at the end, you get things like that. This cloud is completely, 100 percent artificial. Well, 99.9. And the only part which is natural is a number, the roughness of the cloud, which is taken from nature. Something so complicated like a cloud, so unstable, so varying, should have a simple rule behind it. Now this simple rule is not an explanation of clouds. The seer of clouds had to take account of it. I don't know how much advanced these pictures are. They're old. I was very much involved in it, but then turned my attention to other phenomena. Now, here is another thing which is rather interesting. One of the shattering events in the history of mathematics, which is not appreciated by many people, occurred about 130 years ago, 145 years ago. Mathematicians began to create shapes that didn't exist. Mathematicians got into self-praise to an extent which was absolutely amazing, that man can invent things that nature did not know. In particular, it could invent things like a curve which fills the plane. A curve's a curve, a plane's a plane, and the two won't mix. Well, they do mix. A man named Peano did define such curves, and it became an object of extraordinary interest. It was very important, but mostly interesting because a kind of break, a separation between the mathematics coming from reality, on the one hand, and new mathematics coming from pure man's mind. Well, I was very sorry to point out that the pure man's mind has, in fact, seen at long last what had been seen for a long time. And so here I introduce something, the set of rivers of a plane-filling curve. And well, it's a story unto itself. So it was in 1875 to 1925, an extraordinary period in which mathematics prepared itself to break out from the world. And the objects which were used as examples, when I was a child and a student, as examples of the break between mathematics and visible reality — those objects, I turned them completely around. I used them for describing some of the aspects of the complexity of nature. Well, a man named Hausdorff in 1919 introduced a number which was just a mathematical joke, and I found that this number was a good measurement of roughness. When I first told it to my friends in mathematics they said, ""Don't be silly. It's just something [silly]."" Well actually, I was not silly. The great painter Hokusai knew it very well. The things on the ground are algae. He did not know the mathematics; it didn't yet exist. And he was Japanese who had no contact with the West. But painting for a long time had a fractal side. I could speak of that for a long time. The Eiffel Tower has a fractal aspect. I read the book that Mr. Eiffel wrote about his tower, and indeed it was astonishing how much he understood. This is a mess, mess, mess, Brownian loop. One day I decided — halfway through my career, I was held by so many things in my work — I decided to test myself. Could I just look at something which everybody had been looking at for a long time and find something dramatically new? Well, so I looked at these things called Brownian motion — just goes around. I played with it for a while, and I made it return to the origin. Then I was telling my assistant, ""I don't see anything. Can you paint it?"" So he painted it, which means he put inside everything. He said: ""Well, this thing came out ..."" And I said, ""Stop! Stop! Stop! I see; it's an island."" And amazing. So Brownian motion, which happens to have a roughness number of two, goes around. I measured it, 1.33. Again, again, again. Long measurements, big Brownian motions, 1.33. Mathematical problem: how to prove it? It took my friends 20 years. Three of them were having incomplete proofs. They got together, and together they had the proof. So they got the big [Fields] medal in mathematics, one of the three medals that people have received for proving things which I've seen without being able to prove them. Now everybody asks me at one point or another, ""How did it all start? What got you in that strange business?"" What got you to be, at the same time, a mechanical engineer, a geographer and a mathematician and so on, a physicist? Well actually I started, oddly enough, studying stock market prices. And so here I had this theory, and I wrote books about it — financial prices increments. To the left you see data over a long period. To the right, on top, you see a theory which is very, very fashionable. It was very easy, and you can write many books very fast about it. (Laughter) There are thousands of books on that. Now compare that with real price increments. Where are real price increments? Well, these other lines include some real price increments and some forgery which I did. So the idea there was that one must be able to — how do you say? — model price variation. And it went really well 50 years ago. For 50 years, people were sort of pooh-poohing me because they could do it much, much easier. But I tell you, at this point, people listened to me. (Laughter) These two curves are averages: Standard & Poor, the blue one; and the red one is Standard & Poor's from which the five biggest discontinuities are taken out. Now discontinuities are a nuisance, so in many studies of prices, one puts them aside. ""Well, acts of God. And you have the little nonsense which is left. Acts of God."" In this picture, five acts of God are as important as everything else. In other words, it is not acts of God that we should put aside. That is the meat, the problem. If you master these, you master price, and if you don't master these, you can master the little noise as well as you can, but it's not important. Well, here are the curves for it. Now, I get to the final thing, which is the set of which my name is attached. In a way, it's the story of my life. My adolescence was spent during the German occupation of France. Since I thought that I might vanish within a day or a week, I had very big dreams. And after the war, I saw an uncle again. My uncle was a very prominent mathematician, and he told me, ""Look, there's a problem which I could not solve 25 years ago, and which nobody can solve. This is a construction of a man named [Gaston] Julia and [Pierre] Fatou. If you could find something new, anything, you will get your career made."" Very simple. So I looked, and like the thousands of people that had tried before, I found nothing. But then the computer came, and I decided to apply the computer, not to new problems in mathematics — like this wiggle wiggle, that's a new problem — but to old problems. And I went from what's called real numbers, which are points on a line, to imaginary, complex numbers, which are points on a plane, which is what one should do there, and this shape came out. This shape is of an extraordinary complication. The equation is hidden there, z goes into z squared, plus c. It's so simple, so dry. It's so uninteresting. Now you turn the crank once, twice: twice, marvels come out. I mean this comes out. I don't want to explain these things. This comes out. This comes out. Shapes which are of such complication, such harmony and such beauty. This comes out repeatedly, again, again, again. And that was one of my major discoveries, to find that these islands were the same as the whole big thing, more or less. And then you get these extraordinary baroque decorations all over the place. All that from this little formula, which has whatever, five symbols in it. And then this one. The color was added for two reasons. First of all, because these shapes are so complicated that one couldn't make any sense of the numbers. And if you plot them, you must choose some system. And so my principle has been to always present the shapes with different colorings because some colorings emphasize that, and others it is that or that. It's so complicated. (Laughter) In 1990, I was in Cambridge, U.K. to receive a prize from the university, and three days later, a pilot was flying over the landscape and found this thing. So where did this come from? Obviously, from extraterrestrials. (Laughter) Well, so the newspaper in Cambridge published an article about that ""discovery"" and received the next day 5,000 letters from people saying, ""But that's simply a Mandelbrot set very big."" Well, let me finish. This shape here just came out of an exercise in pure mathematics. Bottomless wonders spring from simple rules, which are repeated without end. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	謝謝請原諒我坐著說話，我老了（笑聲）嗯，我今天要談論的主題是一個在某種程度上非常特殊的主題因為它非常古老粗糙度，自古以來就是人類生命的一部份古老的作家曾寫過它它是非常難以掌握的概念而且，在某種意義上說來，它看起來極度複雜，亂無章法，有著許多不同種類的混亂。現在，事實上我幸運地在許多年前參與了一項關於這種複雜圖形的研究我驚異地發現一些蛛絲馬跡——我必須說——有非常顯著的蛛絲馬跡顯示，粗糙度具有次序因此今天，我要向各位呈現一些關於這項研究的例子。比起不規則度（irregularity）我更喜歡用粗糙度（roughness）這個詞因為，不規則度（irregularity）對學過拉丁文的人來說（也就是在我遙遠的青少年時）是規律（regularity）的反義詞，然而，在真實世界裏，粗糙度才是規律的反義詞。因為世界的基本外觀是極度粗糙、崎嶇的。 我給各位看看一些物體有些是人工的有些，在某種程度上，是非常真實的而現在這一個是真的。這是一朵花椰菜爲什麽我要展示花椰菜？爲什麽要展示這麼一個普通、古老的蔬菜呢？因為古老的事物，恰如其分地，非常複雜、同時也非常簡單。如果你試著掂掂它的重量，當然，我們很容易可以量出來當你要吃它時，重量是個問題但是，假如你試著測量它的表面這就非常有意思了如果你用一把鋒利的刀子切下花椰菜中一個小花分開來看它，你會想，這是一整個花椰菜，只是小了些，接著，你再切一刀，一而再，再而三地反復切它，最後，你仍會得到一朵朵小花椰菜。所以人類的經驗總是存在著一些擁有特殊屬性的形狀，每個部分就如同它的整體，只是稍微小了一些。那麼此刻，人類對它做了些什麽研究？非常、非常少（笑聲） 所以實際上我所做的是研究這個問題找出某些令人詫異的東西找出可以衡量粗糙度的東西透過數字，一個數目2.3、1.2，有時更多。有一天，我的朋友試著激怒我，他帶一張照片給我，說：「這個曲線的粗糙度為何？」我回答：「嗯，不到1.5」那粗糙度只有 1.48不須花多少時間這些東西我已經已經看了許久，這些數目是用來表示表面的粗糙度我必須事先聲明，這些表面外觀是完全人工的它們由電腦做成唯一要輸入，就是一個數字那數字就是粗糙度在那左邊我複製許多景觀的表面粗糙度在右邊，我取較高的粗糙度所以，眼睛過了一會便可以容易地區分兩者了 人類必須學習如何衡量粗糙度這非常粗糙、這有點平滑、而這又極度平滑很少有東西是極度平滑的因此，假使你試著提出一個問題：花椰菜的表面積有多少？嗯，你會一量再量每一次你靠近它，它就變得更大可無限遞迴到很小的距離這些湖的沿岸有多長？當你越是測量它，它就越長沿岸線的概念看起來是如此自然因為，它在許多情況下被給定了但事實上，這完全謬誤。根本沒有這回事。你必須採取不同的做法 要理解這些，該採取什麽樣的辦法呢？令人驚訝的是，我們可以透過各種途徑首先，我發明的這些人造景觀都是用在電影上我們看到遠處的山也許真的是山，但也有可能是公式計算來的，現在要做這個是很容易了以往，製作這些必須曠日費時，但現在根本沒什麼現在，看那，那是一個真正的肺臟肺是一種非常古怪的東西如果你測量它你知道它的重量極小肺的體積很小但肺的面積又如何呢？針對這個問題，以前解剖學家常有激烈的爭論有些人說，普通男子的肺面積有一個籃球場大另外有些人認為，不，它有五個籃球場大大家所持的意見相當不同爲什麽呢？因為事實上，肺的面積從沒有明確的定義。支氣管不斷分出分支而在其末梢停止了分支並不是和什麽原則有關而是由於肺臟裡頭的物理因素因為肺裏的粘液所致。在某種情況之下你會有較大的肺。但假使它不斷地分支出來，在很微觀的情形下，鯨魚、人和齧齒目動物會有相等面積的肺。 這有什麼好處嗎？嗯，令人訝異地直到近日以來，解剖學家都不太理解肺臟的構造，我想我的數學令人驚訝地可以帶來許多幫助給外科醫生幫助他們研究肺臟和腎臟這些分叉管的系統的疾病因爲在這些系統中沒有幾何學。所以，換句話說，我發現我自己，正在建立一種幾何學一種沒有幾何圖形的東西的的幾何學而且，令人訝異的是這個幾何學的規則經常是極短的，你有這麼長的公式，曲折了好幾次有時候就只是一味地重復再重複，循著同樣方式反複循環最後，你會得到像這樣的東西 這片雲是100%完全人工的嗯，99.9。唯一自然的地方是數字，也就是這片雲的粗糙度，是取自自然的有時，像雲這麼複雜的東西，是這麼不穩定、變化多端在它背後，應該有一個簡單的規則才是現在，這個簡單規則並不是解釋雲層看這片雲的人必須有這個認知。我不認為這些照片有多先進，它們很舊了我以前涉獵極深，但後來，我轉而研究其他現象了 現在，這裡有另一個更有趣的東西這是在數學史上一件令人震驚的事件，當時沒多少人理解，發生在大約 130 年前、或 145 年前。當時，數學家開始創造不存在的形狀數學家陷入一種自我耽溺的地步他們完全沉浸於人類發明的喜悅之中而這些發明是自然所不知曉的事物特別是，發明一種可以填補平面的曲線曲線是曲線，平面是平面，兩者無法混合但事實上，他們是可以混在一起的有一個叫 Peano 的先生真的確立了這些曲線，於是，這形成一個當時多數人極感興趣的研究對象它在當時非常重要，但也相當有趣因為，一種突破必須是一種區隔，它區隔來自描述現實現象的數學與來自人類純粹心智的新數學嗯，我必須很遺憾地指出純粹的人類心智事實上最終見到了他們長久以來視而不見的事物所以，在這裡，我要向大家介紹一組河流的平面填充曲線而且它本身就是一個故事。1875 年到 1925 年是一段了不起的時期在這段期間，數學正準備突破自己的世界，當我還是個小孩、學生的時候當時作為範例的物體區分了數學與可見的現實——我把那些物體完全顛倒過來我把它們用來描述自然的若干繁複面向 1919 年，有一位叫做 Hausdorff 的先生引介了一個數字，這個數字在當時被看作數學玩笑但我發現這個數值卻是衡量粗糙度的好工具當我第一次把這個發現告訴我數學界的朋友時，他們說：「別傻了，那只不過是件無聊蠢事。」然而事實上，我當時並不傻，偉大的畫家葛飾北齋（Hokusai）深知這個道理這些涉及複數的問題他不懂數學，那時數學尚未存在他是個日本人，從未接觸過西方世界但長久以來，他的畫作擁有碎形面我可以花很多時間談論這個艾菲爾鐵塔有個碎形的外觀我在書上讀到，埃菲爾先生寫過他的鐵塔確實，令人驚訝地，他非常瞭解碎型 這是一個混亂、混亂、混亂的布朗寧迴圈有一天，在我職業生涯的半途我發現我的工作被許多事情絆住我決定測試自己看我是否可以從每個人看了許久的事物中發現什麽戲劇化的新東西？嗯，於是我看到了這些叫布朗寧運動的東西，只有一圈我和它玩了一會，我使它回到原點接著，我告訴我的助理：「我看不到任何東西。你能把它畫出來嗎？」於是他畫了出來，這意謂著他把所有都放了進去。他說：「這東西出現了......」我說：「停下來! 停下來! 停下來!我明白了，這是一座島嶼。」多麼驚人因此，布朗寧運動剛好有一個粗糙度數字2，它繞了一圈我測量它，是1.33一而再，再而三長尺寸，大的布朗寧運動，1.33一個數學問題來了：該如何證明它？我的朋友曾花 20 年的時間研究他們三個人產出一個不完全的證明他們聚在一起，一起證明它因此，他們獲得了這個領域的大獎這些獲獎人當中，有一面獎牌並不能合理地證明我所見到的東西 現在，每個人都問我「這是怎麼開始的？是什麼原因使你進入這個陌生的領域？」是什麼讓我同時成為一個機械工程師、又成為地理學家、數學家、或物理學家等等？嗯，事實上，我是從一個非常怪異的地方開始的我研究股票市場價格在這我提過理論我也寫了有關這方面的書籍金融價格增長量在左邊，你們看到長期的數據在右邊，上方你們可以看到一個非常、非常流行的理論它非常簡單，你可以用極短的時間寫下許多關於它的書籍（笑聲）坊間有上千本這方面的著作現在，比較真實的價格增加量，哪裡是實際的價格增加量呢？嗯，其他這些曲線包涵了一些真正的價格利潤還有一些是我偽造的所以，這裡的觀點是人們必須能夠 —怎麼說呢？ —把價格變化模組化在五十年前，這觀點被認為相當有道理五十年來，人們多少有點輕視我的看法因為他們可以用非常簡單的方式換算出來但我告訴你，在這一點上，人們聽信我（笑聲）這兩條曲線是平均值藍色的那條是標準普爾（Standard & Poor）的曲線，而紅色的那條是標準普爾根據其中 5 個最大的不連續性所畫出來的曲線現在，不連續造成了累贅所以，在許多關於價格的研究上人們把它們擱在一旁，說：「嗯，這些是神的旨意（不可抗力的因素）於是留下了少許無意義的東西，在這幅包涵不可抗力因素的照片中五個不可抗力的現象就如同所有其他事物一樣重要換句話說，事實上，我們不應擱置那不可抗拒的現象不談那才是牛肉，是問題所在如果你熟悉價格和這些癥結而且，如果你不熟悉這些癥結，你也可以試著盡可能地了解小問題但它不重要嗯，這裡有關於它的曲線 我來到最後這個附有我名字的這組在某種程度上，它是我一生的故事我青少年是在德軍佔領法國的期間度過的我曾想，也許我可能會在一天或一個星期內憑空消失所以，我有一些大夢想戰後我和我叔叔相遇我叔叔是個非常重要的數學家，他告訴我「看，這裡有一個我二十五年來都無法解決的問題，沒有人可以解答這是一個叫 [Gaston] Julia 和 [Pierre] Fatou共同建構的問題如果你可以，發掘新的解決辦法，任何解決辦法，你的事業必定有所成就。」非常簡單於是，我試試看就像許許多多前人試過的一樣我什麽也沒找到 然而接著，電腦出現了我決定使用電腦不是用在數學的新問題——比如這條擺動的曲線，這是新問題——而是，把電腦應用於舊的問題之上我從那稱為實數（real number）的地方開始，這是一條線上的點到虛數、複數這些是平面的數也是人們必須去研究的事於是，這個圖形出現了形狀極其複雜該方程式隱藏在那裡z 進入z 平方，加上 c它是如此簡單、如此枯燥、如此無趣現在，你轉動曲軸兩次兩次奇蹟就出現了。我指的是，出現了這個我不想解釋這些東西出現了這個，出現了這個出現了如此這般複雜的形狀它們具有如此的和諧與美感出現了這個它們一而再，再而三地重複著這就是過去我最主要的發現之一我發現這些島嶼是相同的或多或少，就如同它較大的整體於是，你在所有地方得到這些非凡的巴洛克式裝飾它們全都來自這個小小的方程式這方程式有五種符號接著是這個加上兩種顏色的原因是首先，因為這些圖形是如此複雜以致於人們無法辨識任何數目如果你要繪製它們，你必須選擇某些系統所以，我的原則是永遠以不同的顏色呈現這些圖形因為某些顏色強調某些部份而其他的強調這，或強調那實在真的很複雜 （笑聲） 1990 年，我在英國劍橋獲得大學一個獎項三天後有位駕駛飛越田野上空，發現了這東西這是來自哪裡呢？很顯然，這來自外星人（笑聲）嗯，所以劍橋的報紙登載了關於那「發現」的文章隔天後，他們收到了5000 封信，人們在信上說：「這只不過是一個非常大的 Mandelbrot 圖組罷了。」 嗯，讓我這麼結束吧這兒的圖形，只是來自純數學的演算深不可測的奇觀，源自簡單的規則它們無止無盡地反復 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
