Talk	en	zh-tw
bertrand_piccard_s_solar_powered_adventure	"Well, I learned a lot of things about ballooning, especially at the end of these balloon flights around the world I did with Brian Jones. When I took this picture, the window was frozen because of the moisture of the night. And on the other side there was a rising sun. So, you see that on the other side of ice you have the unknown, you have the non-obvious, you have the non-seen, for the people who don't dare to go through the ice. There are so many people who prefer to suffer in the ice they know instead of taking the risk of going through the ice to see what there is on the other side. And I think that's one of the main problems of our society. We learn, maybe not the famous TED audience, but so many other people learn, that the unknown, the doubts, the question marks are dangerous. And we have to resist to the changes. We have to keep everything under control. Well, the unknown is part of life. And in that sense, ballooning is a beautiful metaphor. Because in the balloon, like in life, we go very well in unforeseen directions. We want to go in a direction, but the winds push us in another direction, like in life. And as long as we fight horizontally, against life, against the winds, against what's happening to us, life is a nightmare. How do we steer a balloon? By understanding that the atmosphere is made out of several different layers of wind which all have different direction. So, then, we understand that if we want to change our trajectory, in life, or in the balloon, we have to change altitude. Changing altitude, in life, that means raising to another psychological, philosophical, spiritual level. But how do we do that? In ballooning, or in life, how do we change altitude? How do we go from the metaphor to something more practical that we can really use every day? Well, in a balloon it's easy, we have ballast. And when we drop the ballast overboard we climb. Sand, water, all the equipment we don't need anymore. And I think in life it should be exactly like this. You know, when people speak about pioneering spirit, very often they believe that pioneers are the ones who have new ideas. It's not true. The pioneers are not the ones who have new ideas, because new ideas are so easy to have. We just close our eyes for a minute we all come back with a lot of new ideas. No, the pioneer is the one who allows himself to throw overboard a lot of ballast. Habits, certainties, convictions, exclamation marks, paradigms, dogmas. And when we are able to do that, what happens? Life is not anymore just one line going in one direction in one dimension. No. Life is going to be made out of all the possible lines that go in all the possible directions in three dimensions. And pioneering spirit will be each time we allow ourselves to explore this vertical axis. Of course not just like the atmosphere in the balloon, but in life itself. Explore this vertical axis, that means explore all the different ways to do, all the different ways to behave, all the different ways to think, before we find the one that goes in the direction we wish. This is very practical. This can be in politics. This can be in spirituality. This can be in environment, in finance, in education of children. I deeply believe that life is a much greater adventure if we manage to do politics without the trench between the left and the right wing. Because we will throw away these political dogmas. I deeply believe that we can make much more protection of the environment if we get rid — if we throw overboard this fundamentalism that some of the greens have showed in the past. And that we can aim for much higher spirituality if we get rid of the religious dogmas. Throwing overboard, as ballast, to change our direction. Well, these basically are things I believed in such a long time. But actually I had to go around the world in a balloon to be invited to talk about it. (Laughter) (Applause) It's clear that it's not easy to know which ballast to drop and which altitude to take. Sometime we need friends, family members or a psychiatrist. Well, in balloons we need weather men, the one who calculate the direction of each layer of wind, at which altitude, in order to help the balloonist. But sometimes it's very paradoxical. When Brian Jones and I were flying around the world, the weather man asked us, one day, to fly quite low, and very slow. And when we calculated we thought we're never going to make it around the world at that speed. So, we disobeyed. We flew much higher, and double the speed. And I was so proud to have found that jetstream that I called the weather man, and I told him, ""Hey, guy, don't you think we're good pilots up there? We fly twice the speed you predicted."" And he told me, ""Don't do that. Go down immediately in order to slow down."" And I started to argue. I said, ""I'm not going to do that. We don't have enough gas to fly so slow."" And he told me, ""Yes, but with the low pressure you have on your left if you fly too fast, in a couple of hours you will turn left and end up at the North Pole. (Laughter) And then he asked me — and this is something I will never forget in my life — he just asked me, ""You're the good pilot up there. What do you really want? You want to go very fast in the wrong direction, or slowly in the good direction? (Laughter) (Applause) And this is why you need weathermen. This is why you need people with long-term vision. And this is precisely what fails in the political visions we have now, in the political governments. We are burning, as you heard, so much energy, not understanding that such an unsustainable way of life cannot last for long. So, we went down actually. We slowed down. And we went through moments of fears because we had no idea how the little amount of gas we had in the balloon could allow us to travel 45,000 kilometers. But we were expected to have doubts; we're expected to have fears. And actually this is where the adventure really started. When we were flying over the Sahara and India it was nice holidays. We could land anytime and fly back home with an airplane. In the middle of the Pacific, when you don't have the good winds, you cannot land, you cannot go back. That's a crisis. That's the moment when you have to wake up from the automatic way of thinking. That's the moment when you have to motivate your inner potential, your creativity. That's when you throw out all the ballast, all the certainties, in order to adapt to the new situation. And actually, we changed completely our flight plan. We changed completely our strategy. And after 20 days we landed successfully in Egypt. But if I show you this picture it's not to tell you how happy we were. It's to show you how much gas was left in the last bottles. We took off with 3.7 tons of liquid propane. We landed with 40 kilos. When I saw that, I made a promise to myself. I made a promise that the next time I would fly around the world, it would be with no fuel, independent from fossil energies, in order to be safe, not to be threatened by the fuel gauge. I had no idea how it was possible. I just thought it's a dream and I want to do it. And when the capsule of my balloon was introduced officially in the Air and Space Museum in Washington, together with the airplane of Charles Lindbergh, with Apollo 11, with the Wright Brothers' Flyer, with Chuck Yeager's 61, I had really a thought then. I thought, well, the 20th century, that was brilliant. It allowed to do all those things there. But it will not be possible in the future any more. It takes too much energy. It will cost too much. It will be prohibited because we'll have to save our natural resources in a few decades from now. So how can we perpetuate this pioneering spirit with something that will be independent from fossil energy? And this is when the project Solar Impulse really started to turn in my head. And I think it's a nice metaphor also for the 21st century. Pioneering spirit should continue, but on another level. Not to conquer the planet or space, not anymore, it has been done, but rather to improve the quality of life. How can we go through the ice of certainty in order to make the most incredible a possible thing? What is today completely impossible — get rid of our dependency on fossil energy. If you tell to people, we want to be independent from fossil energy in our world, people will laugh at you, except here, where crazy people are invited to speak. (Laughter) So, the idea is that if we fly around the world in a solar powered airplane, using absolutely no fuel, nobody ever could say in the future that it's impossible to do it for cars, for heating systems, for computers, and so on and so on. Well, solar power airplanes are not new. They have flown in the past, but without saving capabilities, without batteries. Which means that they have more proven the limits of renewable energies than the potential of it. If we want to show the potential, we have to fly day and night. That means to load the batteries during the flight, in order to spend the night on the batteries, and fly the next day again. It has been made, already, on remote controlled little airplane models, without pilots. But it stays an anecdote because the public couldn't identify to it. I think you need a pilot in the plane that can talk to the universities, that can talk to students, talk to politicians during the flight, and really make it a human adventure. For that, unfortunately, four meters wingspan is not enough. You need 64 meter wingspan. 64 meter wingspan to carry one pilot, the batteries, flies slowly enough with the aerodynamic efficiency. Why that? Because fuel is not easy to replace. That's for sure. And with 200 square meters of solar power on our plane, we can produce the same energy than 200 little lightbulbs. That means a Christmas tree, a big Christmas tree. So the question is, how can you carry a pilot around the world with an airplane that uses the same amount of energy as a big Christmas tree? People will tell you it's impossible, and that's exactly why we try to do it. We launched the project with my colleague Andre Borschberg six years ago. We have now 70 people in the team working on it. We have gone through the stages of simulation, design, computing, preparing the construction of the first prototype. That has been achieved after two years of work. Cockpit, propeller, engine. Just the fuselage here, it's so light. It's not designed by an artist, but it could be. 50 kilos for the entire fuselage. Couple of kilos more for the wing spars. This is the complete structure of the airplane. And one month ago we have unveiled it. You cannot imagine how it is for a team who has been working six years on it to show that it's not only a dream and a vision, it's a real airplane. A real airplane that we could finally present. And what's the goal now? The goal is to take off, end of this year for the first test, but mainly next year, spring or summer, take off, on our own power, without additional help, without being towed, climb to 9,000 meters altitude. The same time we load the batteries, we run the engines, and when we get at the maximum height, we arrive at the beginning of the night. And there, there will be just one goal, just one: reach the next sunrise before the batteries are empty. (Laughter) And this is exactly the symbol of our world. If our airplane is too heavy, if the pilot wastes energy, we'll never make it through the night. And in our world, if we keep on spoiling, wasting our energy resources, if we keep on building things that consume so much energy that most of the companies now go bankrupt, it's clear that we'll never give the planet to the next generation without a major problem. So, you see that this airplane is more a symbol. I don't think it will transport 200 people in the next years. But when Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic, the payload was also just sufficient for one person and some fuel. And 20 years later there were 200 people in every airplane crossing the Atlantic. So, we have to start, and show the example. A little bit like on this picture here. This is a painting from Magritte, in the museum in Holland that I love so much. It's a pipe, and it's written, ""This is not a pipe."" This is not an airplane. This is a symbol of what we can achieve when we believe in the impossible, when we have a team, when we have pioneering spirit, and especially when we understand that all the certainties we have should be thrown overboard. What pleases me very much is that in the beginning I thought that we would have to fly around the world with no fuel in order to have our message been understood. And more and more, we're invited around the world with Andre to talk about that project, to talk about the symbol of it, invited by politicians, invited in energy forums, in order to show that it's not anymore completely stupid to think about getting rid of the dependency on fossil energies. So, through speeches like this one today, through interviews, through meetings, our goal is to get as many people possible on the team. The success will not come if we ""just,"" quote, unquote, fly around the world in a solar-powered airplane. No, the success will come if enough people are motivated to do exactly the same in their daily life, save energy, go to renewables. And this is possible. You know, with the technologies we have today, we can save between 30 and 50 percent of the energy of a country in Europe, and we can solve half of the rest with renewables. It leaves 25 or 30 percent for oil, gas, coal, nuclear, or whatever. This is acceptable. This is why all the people who believe in this type of spirit are welcome to be on that team. You can just go on SolarImpulse.com, subscribe to just be informed of what we're doing. But much more, to get advices, to give your comments, to spread the word that if it's possible in the air, of course it's possible in the ground. And each time we have some ice in the future, we have to know that life will be great, and the success will be brilliant if we dare to overcome our fear of the ice, to go through the obstacle, to go through the problem, in order to see what there is on the other side. So, you see, this is what we're doing on our side. Everyone has his goal, has his dreams, has his visions. The question I leave you with now is which is the ballast you would like to throw overboard? Which will be the altitude at which you would like to fly in your life, to get to the success that you wish to have, to get to the point that really belongs to you, with the potential you have, and the one you can really fulfill? Because the most renewable energy we have is our own potential, and our own passion. So, let's go for it, and I wish you an excellent adventure in the wings of the future. Thank you. (Applause)"	我從駕控氣球學到了許多事情最特別是在這氣球飛行旅程的尾聲當我跟布萊恩●瓊斯(Brian Jones)一起環遊世界時。當我拍這張照片時晚上的低溫讓濕氣在窗上結滿冰霜而在窗子的另一端則是旭日東昇你穿過冰霜在另一端看到的許多未知看到許多驚奇從所未見的那些不敢的人們穿越冰霜 有非常多的人甘願在他們所熟悉的冰雪中受苦而不願意冒險穿過這些冰霜去看看另一端是什麼而我認為；這也是我們這個社會的問題之一我們學會了...也許不是你們至群出名的TED聽眾們而是其他的人們著個未知的謎團問題是相當危險的以前我們一直抗拒著改變我們習慣於一切都在掌握中但是，那些未知也是生命中的一部分 從這個角度看，駕氣球成了美妙的精神導師因為在氣球裡，就像是人生我們在不可預料的方向中做得還不錯但是，我們希望有個固定的方向可是風總是把我們推向另一個方向，就像是人生只要我們沿著地平線飛行違逆命運、頂著風抗拒著發生在我們四周的事情生活就像是場惡夢 我們怎麼去駕駛氣球呢？藉由了解我們的大氣層它是由好幾個不同的氣流層所構成而每一個氣流層都有不同的方向因此我們學會了怎麼樣變換航道在生命中或是氣球上我們必須變換高度在生命中變換高度代表提昇了精神層面的高度到達了心理學或哲學的層次那我們怎麼做到呢？ 無論是在氣球上或在人生道路上我們怎麼改變高度？怎麼從這些隱喻轉換成我們每天都實用的實際作法？在氣球上很簡單我們有壓艙物當丟棄這些壓艙物就可以爬升沙子、水、任何我們不再需要的物品而我認為人生也正當如此 你知道嗎，當人們提到時代先驅者的精神通常人們相信這些先驅者是那些有新創意的人實非如此先驅者並不是擁有新點子的人因為新點子是這麼容易產生我們閉上眼睛一分鐘之後張開眼就有一大堆新點子不～先驅者不是那種願意將自己的壓艙物丟到船艙外習慣、視為理所當然的事情信念、驚嘆號範例、教條而當我們願意這麼做的時候會發生什麼事？人生不再是只是朝著一個方向的直線只在一個平面上～不人生將是由很多可能的線條所組成朝向各種可能的方向去在立體的空間 先驅者精神讓我們一次沿著一條垂直的軸線探索當然不只像是在氣球飛行中大氣層的樣子而是人生的本質探索垂直的軸線的意義是探索著所有可能做的各種不同方式的行為，各種不同的想法在我們找到期望的那的方向之前這是非常實際的一件事它可以是政治它可以是精神層面的它可以是環境的財政、兒童教育 我深深相信生命是如此偉大的探險假設我們要從事政治不去管左翼和右翼之間的深溝因為我們就會丟棄這些政治的教條我深信我們可以在保護環境方面做得更多如果我們捨棄 - 如果我們向船外丟棄這些過去看過不成熟的基本的教義則可以瞄準更高精神層面的目標如果我們可以丟棄宗教的教條丟向船外，當做是壓艙物來調整我們的方向 基本上我們長久以來相信的這些事情雖然我必須乘氣球環繞世界才能被邀請來談談這件事笑聲鼓掌一件很確定的事情就是，不知道那個壓艙物是可以丟棄的而那一個高度才是我們需要的朋友、家人成員還是心理學家在氣球飛行時我們需要氣象學家那些經算過每一個大氣層的風向在那個高度來幫助我們這些氣球飛行者但是，有時候卻非常矛盾 當我和布萊恩●瓊斯(Brian Jones)一起繞地球飛行有天氣象人員要求我們飛非常低、非常慢當我們計算之後發現我們永遠到不了終點那樣的速度不可能環繞地球所以我們抗命，飛得很高而且達到雙倍的速度 我們都因為找到這高速氣流而感到自豪當我聯絡氣象人員而且告訴他：「嘿～兄弟，你不覺得我們是傑出的飛行員嗎」？我們達到你們預期的兩倍速度然後他回答我：「千萬別這樣，立即下降」「這樣才能減速」我開始跟他爭執，我說：「我不打算這樣做」「我們沒有足夠的液態燃料慢慢飛」他回答我：「我知道，不過你左邊的低氣壓」「如果你飛太快，幾個小時後」「你將會吸入左側，最後到達北極」笑聲然後他要求我後來他說了句這一輩子我都不會忘記的話他就這麼問我：「如果你真的是個好飛行員」「你到底要什麼？你要飛得很快」「走錯方向，還是飛慢一點在正確的方向」？笑聲鼓掌 這就是為什麼大家需要氣象人員這是為什麼你需要具有長遠眼光的人們但是這正是最大的失敗在我們的政治人物的眼界裏在政府裡面工作你聽到我們燃燒掉如此多的能源卻不了解這樣是無法永續經營的生活方式無法長久話說回來，我們下降了速度變慢而我們經歷了恐懼的歷程因為我們不知道還剩下多少液態燃料熱氣球上所攜帶還要讓我們飛行四萬五千公里雖然我們預期有疑惑，也預期會有恐懼事實上這才是探險之旅的真正開始 當我們飛越印度的沙哈啦（地名）是個美麗假日我們可以隨時降落，然後搭飛機回家在太平洋的中間你沒有好的風、也無法降落你也回不去那真是個危機此時正是你驚醒的時刻自動自發的想著這是你該有激發想法的時刻你的內在潛力你的創意這就是你丟棄所有的壓艙物的時候所有的理所當然才能夠適應新的情況 事實上，我們完全變更了我們的飛行計畫我們完全的變更了我們的策略經過了20天我們終於成功的降落在埃及如果我展示這照片不是要告訴你我們有多開心而是讓你看看我們剩下多少燃料在最後的一瓶出發時帶著3.7頓的液態丙烷降落時只剩下40公斤 當我看到這個，自己下了個承諾承諾是～下次我要環球飛行時我要不帶燃料從石化燃料脫離出來才能保證安全不被燃料的存量所威脅我一點也不知道怎麼可能只是一個夢想而我要去完成他 當我的氣球飛行艙被正式收藏在華盛頓的航太博物館跟查爾斯●林白(Charles Lindbergh)的飛機阿波羅11號和萊特兄弟的飛行器查克●耶格(Chuck Yeager)的X1號我開始有了個想法我認為20世紀真是太傑出了讓人們從事這麼多樣事情在將來就不可能發生了因為需要太多能源，而且所費不貲這樣的行為會被禁止因為我們並沒有好好保存我們的自然資源往後的十幾年 我們怎麼樣去永久保存這些先驅者的精神做一些事情卻不受石化能源的牽絆？而這就是太陽能動力計畫真正開始從我腦海出現而我也認為這是一個很好的啟發對於21世紀而言先驅者的精神應該持續，但是到了另一個階段不是要征服一個星球或太空不再是，那已經做過了應該要做的是改善人類的生活品質我們要怎麼穿越既有想法的大冰層達成最不可思議成為可能的事情？什麼是今天最不可能的完全不依賴石化燃料 如果你告訴人們，我們要完全從使用石化能源的世界獨立出來除了我們這裡之外，大家都會嘲笑你那裡來的瘋子在這裡演講笑聲這想法是：如果我們環繞世界飛行只靠太陽能為動力的飛機完全不用任何燃料將來沒有人可以說那是不可能的事情汽車、暖氣系統電腦以期其他的設備 太陽能飛機不是新的創意過去曾經成功飛行但是沒有儲能的裝置，沒有電池也就是說他們證實了這種重複使用能源的極限而不是他將來的潛能如果我們要展現潛能我們必須要日夜都飛行意味著要帶著電池飛行晚上才能由電池供應能源一直飛行到第二天這樣的飛機已經在遙控飛機方面做出來小型模型飛機沒有飛行員 不過，這一直都只是趣聞因為大眾不能夠認同我相信你需要一位飛行員在機上可以跟大學對話可以跟學生對話可以跟政治人物在飛行途中對話才能讓他成為人類的探險就此，很不幸的四公尺的飛機翼是不夠的你需要64公尺長的機翼64公尺長的機翼才能帶得動一位飛行員和電池而且要飛得夠慢才能達到飛機流體力學的最佳效應為什麼呢？因為燃料是很難被取代的這倒是真的我們機上200平方公尺的太陽能動力我們只能產生足夠點亮200個燈泡的電力等同於一株聖誕樹，大的聖誕樹 問題來了，我們怎麼樣承載一位飛行員環繞世界用一架飛機只能使用一棵大聖誕樹一樣的能源呢？人們會告訴你，那是不可能的而這正是我們嘗試去做的事情我和我的同事安醉爾●包許博格(Andre Borschberg)發起一個專案六年之前現在我們有70個工作人員在團隊裏工作我們經歷了過程包括模擬、設計電腦運算、準備製造我們的原型機這項工作花了兩年的時間機艙、螺旋槳、引擎這是機艙他非常的輕他不是由藝術家設計的，不過那是有可能的整個座艙只有50公斤翼樑又要多加幾公斤 這是飛機的整個結構一個月之前我們公開發表你可以想像對於工作團隊是什麼樣的情形在這個項目做了六年功夫這證實了這不只是個夢想，更是一個願景它是一架真的飛機一架真的飛機我們終於可以公開 現在目標是什麼？目標就是能起飛今年的年終將會有第一次試飛主要的測試會集中在明年的春、夏用我們自己的動力起飛沒有額外的幫助，沒有其他外力牽引爬升到9000公尺高度在此同時要替電池充電我們將使用引擎爬升到最大的高度在夜晚到來之前到達我們只有一個目標，只有一個在電池用光之前撐到第二天太陽升起笑聲 而這就是我們這個世界的標竿如果我們的飛機太重如果飛行員浪費了能源我們就無法撐過黑夜當今世界上，如果我們繼續糟蹋浪費我們的能源如果我們持續建造消耗大量能源的東西最有可能破產的就是這樣的公司很明顯的我們從未將地球留給下一世代不留下巨大麻煩 因此，這架飛機可以視為一個象徵我不認為他可以搭載200名乘客在明年不過，當年林白橫越大西洋飛機的承載也只是勉強可以承載一個人的油料過了20年之後，每一架飛機可以承載200名乘客通過大西洋 因此，我們應該要開始立下一個先例有點像是這個照片所顯示這幅畫是馬格利特所畫(René François Ghislain Magritte)收藏在荷蘭博物館內，也是我的最愛是一個煙斗，卻標明了「這不是一個煙斗」這不是架飛機這是一個我們所能夠成就的象徵當我們知不可為而為之當我們有了團隊當我們懷抱先驅者的精神特別是當我們了解了所有我們已知的那些事物都應該丟到船外 讓我最樂的是最初我們想要飛行不帶燃料而環繞世界為了讓我的的意念被了解我和同事安醉爾被世界上越來越多人邀請聊到這個計畫，談論它所代表的意義有政治人物邀請、有能源論壇的邀請告訴大家那不再是完全的愚蠢如果想要除去我們對於石化燃料的依賴 透過像今天這樣的演講透過座談、會議我們的目標是盡量招募更多人加入團隊最後的成功不會來如果我們「只是」利用太陽為動能的飛機環繞全世界不～我們會成功的只要足夠的人們被我們啟發用新的方式去過每一天節省能源、利用可再生的能源就可能成功你知道以我們今天的科技我們可以節省百分之30到50的能源以歐洲各個國家為例而我們可以用再生能源取代剩下的一半只剩下百分之25到30油、天然氣、煤、核能或者是其他這樣就在可以接受的範圍 這是為什麼這一類的人們相信這樣的精神非常受到我們團隊的歡迎你可以到SolarImpulse.com註冊會員我們會定時通知你我們的進度更重要的是，給我們建議給我們你的指教，幫我們傳播理念可能的話傳播在空中當然在地上比較可能 每一次當我們又發現未來之窗上的冰霜我們確信將來的生活會更好那成功將會是輝煌的如果我們可以克服對於冰霜的恐懼衝破障礙穿越困難，就可以看到彼岸到底有什麼這就是我們這一邊在努力的事情每個人都有自己的世界觀、自己的夢想自己的眼界 我留下一個問題讓你們思考什麼是你的壓艙物你願意丟棄到船外面去？那個高度是你想要飛行在你的人生當中而得到你想到的成功達到你真正想要到達的境界以你的潛能和你真正能去實現的因為大多數我們可以取得的可再生能源就是我們的潛力與我們的熱情讓我們一起加油，我期望你有一個棒透了的探索旅程在駛向未來的風中，謝謝你掌聲
