Talk	en	zh-tw
bettina_warburg_how_the_blockchain_will_radically_transform_the_economy	"Economists have been exploring people's behavior for hundreds of years: how we make decisions, how we act individually and in groups, how we exchange value. They've studied the institutions that facilitate our trade, like legal systems, corporations, marketplaces. But there is a new, technological institution that will fundamentally change how we exchange value, and it's called the blockchain. Now, that's a pretty bold statement, but if you take nothing else away from this talk, I actually want you to remember that while blockchain technology is relatively new, it's also a continuation of a very human story, and the story is this. As humans, we find ways to lower uncertainty about one another so that we can exchange value. Now, one of the first people to really explore the idea of institutions as a tool in economics to lower our uncertainties about one another and be able to do trade was the Nobel economist Douglass North. He passed away at the end of 2015, but North pioneered what's called ""new institutional economics."" And what he meant by institutions were really just formal rules like a constitution, and informal constraints, like bribery. These institutions are really the grease that allow our economic wheels to function, and we can see this play out over the course of human history. If we think back to when we were hunter-gatherer economies, we really just traded within our village structure. We had some informal constraints in place, but we enforced all of our trade with violence or social repercussions. As our societies grew more complex and our trade routes grew more distant, we built up more formal institutions, institutions like banks for currency, governments, corporations. These institutions helped us manage our trade as the uncertainty and the complexity grew, and our personal control was much lower. Eventually with the internet, we put these same institutions online. We built platform marketplaces like Amazon, eBay, Alibaba, just faster institutions that act as middlemen to facilitate human economic activity. As Douglass North saw it, institutions are a tool to lower uncertainty so that we can connect and exchange all kinds of value in society. And I believe we are now entering a further and radical evolution of how we interact and trade, because for the first time, we can lower uncertainty not just with political and economic institutions, like our banks, our corporations, our governments, but we can do it with technology alone. So what is the blockchain? Blockchain technology is a decentralized database that stores a registry of assets and transactions across a peer-to-peer network. It's basically a public registry of who owns what and who transacts what. The transactions are secured through cryptography, and over time, that transaction history gets locked in blocks of data that are then cryptographically linked together and secured. This creates an immutable, unforgeable record of all of the transactions across this network. This record is replicated on every computer that uses the network. It's not an app. It's not a company. I think it's closest in description to something like Wikipedia. We can see everything on Wikipedia. It's a composite view that's constantly changing and being updated. We can also track those changes over time on Wikipedia, and we can create our own wikis, because at their core, they're just a data infrastructure. On Wikipedia, it's an open platform that stores words and images and the changes to that data over time. On the blockchain, you can think of it as an open infrastructure that stores many kinds of assets. It stores the history of custodianship, ownership and location for assets like the digital currency Bitcoin, other digital assets like a title of ownership of IP. It could be a certificate, a contract, real world objects, even personal identifiable information. There are of course other technical details to the blockchain, but at its core, that's how it works. It's this public registry that stores transactions in a network and is replicated so that it's very secure and hard to tamper with. Which brings me to my point of how blockchains lower uncertainty and how they therefore promise to transform our economic systems in radical ways. So uncertainty is kind of a big term in economics, but I want to go through three forms of it that we face in almost all of our everyday transactions, where blockchains can play a role. We face uncertainties like not knowing who we're dealing with, not having visibility into a transaction and not having recourse if things go wrong. So let's take the first example, not knowing who we're dealing with. Say I want to buy a used smartphone on eBay. The first thing I'm going to do is look up who I'm buying from. Are they a power user? Do they have great reviews and ratings, or do they have no profile at all? Reviews, ratings, checkmarks: these are the attestations about our identities that we cobble together today and use to lower uncertainty about who we're dealing with. But the problem is they're very fragmented. Think about how many profiles you have. Blockchains allow for us to create an open, global platform on which to store any attestation about any individual from any source. This allows us to create a user-controlled portable identity. More than a profile, it means you can selectively reveal the different attributes about you that help facilitate trade or interaction, for instance that a government issued you an ID, or that you're over 21, by revealing the cryptographic proof that these details exist and are signed off on. Having this kind of portable identity around the physical world and the digital world means we can do all kinds of human trade in a totally new way. So I've talked about how blockchains could lower uncertainty in who we're dealing with. The second uncertainty that we often face is just not having transparency into our interactions. Say you're going to send me that smartphone by mail. I want some degree of transparency. I want to know that the product I bought is the same one that arrives in the mail and that there's some record for how it got to me. This is true not just for electronics like smartphones, but for many kinds of goods and data, things like medicine, luxury goods, any kind of data or product that we don't want tampered with. The problem in many companies, especially those that produce something complicated like a smartphone, is they're managing all of these different vendors across a horizontal supply chain. All of these people that go into making a product, they don't have the same database. They don't use the same infrastructure, and so it becomes really hard to see transparently a product evolve over time. Using the blockchain, we can create a shared reality across nontrusting entities. By this I mean all of these nodes in the network do not need to know each other or trust each other, because they each have the ability to monitor and validate the chain for themselves. Think back to Wikipedia. It's a shared database, and even though it has multiple readers and multiple writers at the same time, it has one single truth. So we can create that using blockchains. We can create a decentralized database that has the same efficiency of a monopoly without actually creating that central authority. So all of these vendors, all sorts of companies, can interact using the same database without trusting one another. It means for consumers, we can have a lot more transparency. As a real-world object travels along, we can see its digital certificate or token move on the blockchain, adding value as it goes. This is a whole new world in terms of our visibility. So I've talked about how blockchains can lower our uncertainties about identity and how they change what we mean about transparency in long distances and complex trades, like in a supply chain. The last uncertainty that we often face is one of the most open-ended, and it's reneging. What if you don't send me the smartphone? Can I get my money back? Blockchains allow us to write code, binding contracts, between individuals and then guarantee that those contracts will bear out without a third party enforcer. So if we look at the smartphone example, you could think about escrow. You are financing that phone, but you don't need to release the funds until you can verify that all the conditions have been met. You got the phone. I think this is one of the most exciting ways that blockchains lower our uncertainties, because it means to some degree we can collapse institutions and their enforcement. It means a lot of human economic activity can get collateralized and automated, and push a lot of human intervention to the edges, the places where information moves from the real world to the blockchain. I think what would probably floor Douglass North about this use of technology is the fact that the very thing that makes it work, the very thing that keeps the blockchain secure and verified, is our mutual distrust. So rather than all of our uncertainties slowing us down and requiring institutions like banks, our governments, our corporations, we can actually harness all of that collective uncertainty and use it to collaborate and exchange more and faster and more open. Now, I don't want you to get the impression that the blockchain is the solution to everything, even though the media has said that it's going to end world poverty, it's also going to solve the counterfeit drug problem and potentially save the rainforest. The truth is, this technology is in its infancy, and we're going to need to see a lot of experiments take place and probably fail before we truly understand all of the use cases for our economy. But there are tons of people working on this, from financial institutions to technology companies, start-ups and universities. And one of the reasons is that it's not just an economic evolution. It's also an innovation in computer science. Blockchains give us the technological capability of creating a record of human exchange, of exchange of currency, of all kinds of digital and physical assets, even of our own personal attributes, in a totally new way. So in some ways, they become a technological institution that has a lot of the benefits of the traditional institutions we're used to using in society, but it does this in a decentralized way. It does this by converting a lot of our uncertainties into certainties. So I think we need to start preparing ourselves, because we are about to face a world where distributed, autonomous institutions have quite a significant role. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Bettina. I think I understood that it's coming, it offers a lot of potential, and it's complex. What is your estimate for the rate of adoption? Bettina Warburg: I think that's a really good question. My lab is pretty much focused on going the enterprise and government route first, because in reality, blockchain is a complex technology. How many of you actually understand how the internet works? But you use it every day, so I think we're sort of facing the same John Sculley idea of technology should either be invisible or beautiful, and blockchain is kind of neither of those things right now, so it's better suited for either really early adopters who kind of get it and can tinker around or for finding those best use cases like identity or asset tracking or smart contracts that can be used at that level of an enterprise or government. BG: Thank you. Thanks for coming to TED. BW: Thanks. (Applause)"	經濟學家數百年來不停地探索人們的行為：我們怎樣做決定、我們作為個人與群體如何行動、我們怎樣進行價值交換。他們研究這些促進我們交易的制度，例如法律系統、企業、市場。但現在，有一種全新的科技機制，即將徹底顛覆我們價值交換的進行方式，它叫做「區塊鏈」。 這是個相當大膽的預測，如果你在這場演講中，聽不懂我在說什麼，我仍舊希望各位記得：「區塊鏈」的技術雖然相對新穎，但它延續了一段人類故事的發展。故事是這樣的...作為人類，我們一直在尋找各種降低彼此不確定性的方法，以方便價值交換。 真正在經濟學裏研究如何將制度當成工具，以降低我們彼此間不確定性而能進行交易的學者，有位是諾貝爾經濟學獎得主道格拉斯．諾斯。他在2015年底去世，他開創了「新制度經濟學」。他所說的制度，只是一些正式的規則，比如說憲法，以及非正式的潛規則，例如賄賂。這些制度是帶動我們經濟體系運轉的潤滑油，這些制度在我們人類歷史中扮演了重要的角色。 如果我們回想一下，當我們還處於狩獵採集的經濟時代時，我們只會在自己的村落裏做交易，我們在交易時雖有一些非正式的潛規則，但我們會使用暴力或社會公評來強制這些交易的進行。當我們的社會越來越多元，貿易越來越全球化，我們建立了更多的正式制度，比如負責貨幣流通的銀行、政府，企業。這些制度能在社會不確定性和複雜度升高、個人掌控力下降的情況下，幫助我們管理交易的進行。之後隨著網路的發展，我們在網路上也建立了同樣的制度。我們建立了線上交易平台，比如亞馬遜、eBay、阿里巴巴，這些運作更快速的制度，扮演了中間人的角色，促進了人類的經濟活動。 正如道格拉斯．諾斯所觀察到的，制度是用來降低不確定性的工具，讓我們可以在社會中建立起關係並交換各種有價值的東西。我認為，我們現在正進入一種更深遠徹底的演變，人們將改變如何互動及交易。因為，這是我們第一次可以自主降低這些不確定性，不用透過政策或金融制度，例如銀行、企業和政府的協助就能完成交易，我們自己運用科技即可完成。 所以區塊鏈是什麼？區塊鏈技術是一種分散式資料庫，它是透過對等式網絡存放使用者的資產及交易紀錄。基本上，這是一個公開的記帳系統，上面記載了誰持有什麼，誰交易過什麼。交易紀錄是透過加密保護的，時間一過，歷史交易紀錄就會被封存在資料區塊裡，資料區塊間會透過加密方式進行連結及保護。如此，所有交易就會在這個網路下留下一個無法更改、編造的紀錄。這些交易記錄會在這個網絡上的每台電腦進行備份。 區塊鏈不是一個應用程式，也不是一家公司。我覺得最接近的描述應該像是維基百科。我們在維基百科上能看到每樣東西。其呈現的複合面貌不斷在變動及更新中。隨著時間的推移，我們可以在維基百科上追蹤這些變化，我們也可以創建自己的維基，因為其核心只是個資料基礎架構。在維基百科上，我們用此開放平台存放文字和圖片，以及隨時間添加的資料更動。在區塊鏈上，我們也可將其視為一開放基礎架構，上面存放著各式各樣的資產。它可儲存資產履歷，包含管理者、擁有者、位置等變動，供比特幣等數位貨幣之用，或者其它數位資產，像是智財權擁有者名稱。它也可以是一個憑證、一份合約、真實世界的東西、甚至是個人識別資料。當然區塊鏈還有其他技術細節，但其核心是這樣運作的。這個開放式記帳系統，存放了該網路的所有交易紀錄，而且所有紀錄都備份到每台電腦，所以很安全、很難被竄改。 這引申出我要說的重點：區塊鏈可降低不確定性，以及因此將徹底地改變我們的經濟體系。「不確定性」是經濟學上一個相當重要的專業詞彙，但我想簡單敘述一下，區塊鏈在我們每天的交易中所扮演的三個角色。我們面對的不確定性，比如說我們不知道我們在跟誰交易、交易過程中沒有透明性、如果出問題無處補救。 那麽我們來先談談第一個，不知道跟誰交易。比如說我想在 eBay 上買一個二手的智慧型手機。我要做的第一件事就是確認我是要跟誰買，他們是能力很強的用戶嗎？別人對其評語及給分好嗎？還是說他們根本沒有基本資料可查？評語、給分、查核標誌：這些是我們今天拼湊對方身份的證據，這些資訊可以用來降低對方身份的不確定性。但問題是這些訊息非常零碎。想想你個人就有多少份基本資料。區塊鏈可以讓我們建立一個開放式的全球平台，在其上面，可以存放來自任何來源的個人資訊證明。因此，我們可以建立出一種用戶管控下可攜帶式的身份證明。這不僅是一份普通的基本資料，因為你可以選擇性地揭露你自己的不同屬性，以利交易進行或者互動。例如，想證明有政府發給的身份證，或者你年滿 21 歲，你只要揭示你的加密憑證即可，裏面證明這些個人細節存在，且你簽章過。有了這種介於真實與數位世界之間的便利身份證明，我們就可以用這種全新的方式來做任何交易。 我已經闡述完區塊鏈可以幫助我們在交易上減少不確定性。接下來，第二個我們經常遇到的不確定性，就是互動不夠透明。比如說，你要郵寄智慧型手機給我，但我想要有一定程度的透明度。我想知道我買的東西跟寄到郵箱裏的是否同一個東西，以及這個東西是如何送到我手上的相關記錄。不只寄送智慧型手機等電子產品如此，寄送任何貨物或資料也適用，像是藥物、奢侈品，任何我們不想被掉包的資料或產品都可以。 很多公司都會有這樣的問題，特別像是生產智慧型手機這樣複雜東西的公司，他們在管理不同供應商時，橫跨整個水平供應鏈經常出現類似的問題。投入一項產品製造的所有相關人等，他們沒有同一份資料庫。他們不用同一套基礎資料架構，所以過程中很難透明看到一項產品如何隨時間演化。 運用區塊鏈，我們可以在無信任的個體之間，創造出一個共享的真相。我的意思是，這個網路上的每個節點，彼此間都不需要互相認識或信任對方，因為他們彼此都有能力可以去監控、確認他們自己的供應鏈。再回頭看看維基，它是個共享的資料庫，雖然它同時有許多讀者及許多作者，但真相只有一個。所以我們可以運用區塊鏈來創造類似的環境。我們可以在不用中心化管理授權的情況下，創造一個去中心化資料庫，其效能和集中壟斷相同。因此，所有廠商、公司在彼此不信任的狀況下，能運用相同的資料庫做互動，對消費者而言，我們就有更多的產品資訊透明度。當真實世界的東西在運送時，我們就可以在區塊鏈上看到其數位憑證或符號作移動變化，隨其變動添加記錄值。就能見度而言，這是個全新的境界。 所以，我已經談完區塊鏈可以如何降低身份的不確定性，以及如何改變供應鏈中遠距離及複雜交易的透明度。最後一個不確定性就是我們經常面臨，卻最難處理的違約問題。你要是沒把手機寄給我，怎麼辦？我能拿回我的錢嗎？區塊鏈可以讓我們在上面編碼、綁定合約、來約束彼此，並確保雙方的合約不需要第三方的強制執行就能履行。所以，以智慧型手機當例子，你可以把交易想成是有信託付款的。你信託付款購買手機，在你尚未確認所有條件都符合並拿到手機前，你不須同意把錢匯給對方。 我認為這是區塊鏈在降低不確定性方面最令人興奮的地方，這意味著，在某種程度上我們可以瓦解機構及其強制力需求了，這也意味著有更多的人類經濟活動可在擔保抵押下自動執行，而將一大堆人為干擾因素局限在最外圍，當資訊從真實世界進入區塊鏈後就不受干擾。 我想這項科技的運用讓道格拉斯．諾斯感到驚訝的地方，應該就是區塊鏈技術真的辦到了，而讓區塊鏈維持安全且易確證的原因就是我們彼此的不信任。所以，並不須利用原本讓我們的交易慢下來的那些制度，像是銀行、政府、公司，我們已經可以駕馭這些不確定性，並運用區塊鏈來促進更多，更快，更公開的合作及交換。 我不是要各位產生錯誤印象，以為區塊鏈可以解決所有事情。甚至還有媒體說，區塊鏈可以終結貧窮，也可以解決假藥的問題，甚至可能解救雨林。事實上，這項技術還在其嬰兒期，我們還須觀察許多實驗的進行結果，有些也許失敗，這樣才能真正了解其所有適用的經濟情況。許多人正努力研究區塊鏈，包括金融機構，科技公司，初創企業，大學等。其中一個原因是它不只帶來經濟上的進化，它也帶來電腦科學上的創新。 區塊鏈讓我們擁有技術能力，可以記錄人類交易、貨幣交換，各種數位、實體資產甚至我們的個人屬性以全新方式進行記錄。所以，某些方面，區塊鏈變成一種擁有很多好處的科技機制，取代了我們傳統社會上常用的制度，但卻是用去中心化的方式達成。它把我們很多的不確定性轉化成確定性。 所以我認為我們自己要開始準備了，因為我們即將面對一個新世界其中，分散式、自主式的機制扮演了相當重要的角色。 感謝各位。 （掌聲） BG：謝謝妳，貝蒂娜。我想我已經了解這樣的世界即將到來，它提供了很多潛在的機會，但也很複雜。你可否估算一下目前區塊鏈的使用率？ 貝蒂娜．沃伯格：我想這是一個很好的問題。我的實驗室著重在先往企業及政府推廣的道路上，因為實際上，區塊鏈是一個相當複雜的技術。在座有多少人是真正懂得網際網路如何運作的？但你每天都在用網路。我想，我們正面臨約翰．史考利（前蘋果公司執行長）所說的狀況，他說，科技最好潛身讓人看不見，不然就是要讓人覺得很美，可惜，目前區塊鏈似乎這兩樣都不具備，所以它比較適合初期採用者既了解它，也知道如何修改它，或者想從中找到最佳適用情境的人，像是企業或政府這種層級需要身份識別，資產追蹤，或智慧型合約的用戶。 BG：謝謝妳，謝謝妳來 TED 演講。 貝蒂娜：謝謝。（掌聲）
