Talk	en	zh-tw
beverly_dereck_joubert_life_lessons_from_big_cats	"Beverly Joubert: We are truly passionate about the African wilderness and protecting the African wilderness, and so what we've done is we've focused on iconic cats. And I know, in the light of human suffering and poverty and even climate change, one would wonder, why worry about a few cats? Well today we're here to share with you a message that we have learned from a very important and special character — this leopard. Dereck Joubert: Well, our lives have basically been like a super long episode of ""CSI"" — something like 28 years. In essence, what we've done is we've studied the science, we've looked at the behavior, we've seen over 2,000 kills by these amazing animals. But one of the things that science really lets us down on is that personality, that individual personality that these animals have. And here's a prime example. We found this leopard in a 2,000-year-old baobab tree in Africa, the same tree that we found her mother in and her grandmother. And she took us on a journey and revealed something very special to us — her own daughter, eight days old. And the minute we found this leopard, we realized that we needed to move in, and so we basically stayed with this leopard for the next four-and-a-half years — following her every day, getting to know her, that individual personality of hers, and really coming to know her. Now I'm destined to spend a lot of time with some unique, very, very special, individualistic and often seductive female characters. (Laughter) Beverly's clearly one of them, and this little leopard, Legadema, is another, and she changed our lives. BJ: Well we certainly did spend a lot of time with her — in fact, more time than even her mother did. When her mother would go off hunting, we would stay and film. And early on, a lightning bolt hit a tree 20 paces away from us. It was frightening, and it showered us with leaves and a pungent smell. And of course, we were stunned for a while, but when we managed to get our wits about us, we looked at it and said, ""My gosh, what's going to happen with that little cub? She's probably going to forever associate that deafening crash with us."" Well, we needn't have worried. She came charging out of the thicket straight towards us, sat next to us, shivering, with her back towards Dereck, and looking out. And actually from that day on, she's been comfortable with us. So we felt that that day was the day that she really earned her name. We called her Legadema, which means, ""light from the sky."" DJ: Now we've found these individualisms in all sorts of animals, in particular in the cats. This particular one is called Eetwidomayloh, ""he who greets with fire,"" and you can just see that about him, you know — that's his character. But only by getting up close to these animals and spending time with them can we actually even reach out and dig out these personal characters that they have. BJ: But through our investigation, we have to seek the wildest places in Africa. And right now this is in the Okavango Delta in Botswana. Yes, it is swamp. We live in the swamp in a tent, but I must tell you, every day is exhilarating. But also, our hearts are in our throats a huge amount of the time, because we're driving through water, and it's an unknown territory. But we're really there seeking and searching and filming the iconic cats. DJ: Now one of the big things, of course, everybody knows that cats hate water, and so this was a real revelation for us. And we could only find this by pushing ourselves, by going where no sane person should go — not without some prompting, by the way, from Beverly — and just pushing the envelope, going out there, pushing our vehicle, pushing ourselves. But we've managed to find that these lions are 15 percent bigger than any others, and they specialize in hunting buffalo in the water. BJ: And then of course, the challenge is knowing when to turn around. We don't always get that right, and on this particular day, we seriously underestimated the depth. We got deeper and deeper, until it was at Dereck's chest-height. Well then we hit a deep depression, and we seriously submerged the vehicle. We actually managed to drown two million dollars' worth of camera gear. We drowned our pride, I must tell you, which was really serious, and we seized the engine. DJ: And of course, one of the rules that we have in the vehicle is that he who drowns the vehicle gets to swim with the crocodiles. (Laughter) You will notice also that all of these images here are taken from the top angle by Beverly — the dry top angle, by the way. (Laughter) But all the places we get stuck in really have great views. And it wasn't a moment, and these lions came back towards us, and Beverly was able to get a great photograph. BJ: But we truly do spend day and night trying to capture unique footage. And 20 years ago, we did a film called ""Eternal Enemies"" where we managed to capture this unusual disturbing behavior across two species — lions and hyenas. And surprisingly, it became a cult film. And we can only work that out as people were seeing parallels between the thuggish side of nature and gang warfare. DJ: It was amazing, because you can see that this lion is doing exactly what his name, Eetwidomayloh, represents. He's focused on this hyena, and he is going to get it. (Animal sounds) But that's, I think, what this is all about, is that these individuals have these personalities and characters. But for us to get them, not only do we push ourselves, but we live by certain rules of engagement, which mean we can't interfere. This sort of behavior has been going on for three, four, five million years, and we can't step in and say, ""That's wrong, and that's right."" But that's not always easy for us. BJ: So, as Dereck says, we have to work through extremes — extreme temperatures, push ourselves at night. Sleep deprivation is extreme. We're on the edge through a large part of the time. But, for 10 years, we tried to capture lions and elephants together — and never ever managed until this particular night. And I have to tell you that it was a disturbing night for me. I had tears rolling down my cheeks. I was shaking with anxiety, but I knew that [I had] to capture something that had never been seen before, had never been documented. And I do believe you should stay with us. DJ: The amazing thing about these moments — and this is probably a highlight of our career — is that you never know how it's going to end. Many people believe, in fact, that death begins in the eyes, not in the heart, not in the lungs, and that's when people give up hope, or when any life form gives up hope. And you can see the start of it here. This elephant, against overwhelming odds, simply gives up hope. But by the same token, you can get your hope back again. So just when you think it's all over, something else happens, some spark gets into you, some sort of will to fight — that iron will that we all have, that this elephant has, that conservation has, that big cats have. Everything has that will to survive, to fight, to push through that mental barrier and to keep going. And for us, in many ways, this elephant has become a symbol of inspiration for us, a symbol of that hope as we go forward in our work. (Applause) Now back to the leopard. We were spending so much time with this leopard and getting to understand her individualism, her personal character, that maybe we were taking it a little bit far. We were perhaps taking her for granted, and maybe she didn't like that that much. This is about couples working together, and so I do need to say that within the vehicle we have quite strict territories, Beverly and I. Beverly sits on the one side where all her camera gear is, and I'm on the other side where my space is. These are precious to us, these divides. BJ: But when this little cub saw that I had vacated my seat and climbed to the back to get some camera gear, she came in like a curious cat to come and investigate. It was phenomenal, and we felt grateful that she trusted us to that extent. But at the same time, we were concerned that if she created this as a habit and jumped into somebody else's car, it might not turn out the same way — she might get shot for that. So we knew we had to react quickly. And the only way we thought we could without scaring her is to try and simulate a growl like her mother would make — a hiss and a sound. So Dereck turned on the heater fan in the car — very innovative. DJ: It was the only way for me to save the marriage, because Beverly felt she was being replaced, you see. (Laughter) But really and truly, this was how this little leopard was displaying her individual personality. But nothing prepared us for what happened next in our relationship with her, when she started hunting. BJ: And on this first hunt, we truly were excited. It was like watching a graduation ceremony. We felt like we were surrogate parents. And of course, we knew now that she was going to survive. But only when we saw the tiny baby baboon clinging to the mother's fur did we realize that something very unique was taking place here with Legadema. And of course, the baby baboon was so innocent, it didn't turn and run. So what we watched over the next couple of hours was very unique. It was absolutely amazing when she picked it up to safety, protecting it from the hyena. And over the next five hours, she took care of it. We realized that we actually don't know everything, and that nature is so unpredictable, we have to be open at all times. DJ: Okay, so she was a little bit rough. (Laughter) But in fact, what we were seeing here was interesting. Because she is a cub wanting to play, but she was also a predator needing to kill, and yet conflicted in some way, because she was also an emerging mother. She had this maternal instinct, much like a young girl on her way to womanhood, and so this really took us to this new level of understanding that personality. BJ: And of course, through the night, they lay together. They ended up sleeping for hours. But I have to tell you — everybody always asks, ""What happened to the baby baboon?"" It did die, and we suspect it was from the freezing winter nights. DJ: So at this stage, I guess, we had very, very firm ideas on what conservation meant. We had to deal with these individual personalities. We had to deal with them with respect and celebrate them. And so we, with the National Geographic, formed the Big Cats Initiative to march forward into conservation, taking care of the big cats that we loved — and then had an opportunity to look back over the last 50 years to see how well we had all collectively been doing. So when Beverly and I were born, there were 450,000 lions, and today there are 20,000. Tigers haven't fared any better — 45,000 down to maybe 3,000. BJ: And then cheetahs have crashed all the way down to 12,000. Leopards have plummeted from 700,000 down to a mere 50,000. Now in the extraordinary time that we have worked with Legadema — which is really over a five-year period — 10,000 leopards were legally shot by safari hunters. And that's not the only leopards that were being killed through that period. There's an immense amount of poaching as well, and so possibly the same amount. It's simply not sustainable. We admire them, and we fear them, and yet, as man, we want to steal their power. It used to be the time where only kings wore a leopard skin, but now throughout rituals and ceremonies, traditional healers and ministers. And of course, looking at this lion paw that has been skinned, it eerily reminds me of a human hand, and that's ironic, because their fate is in our hands. DJ: There's a burgeoning bone trade. South Africa just released some lion bones onto the market. Lion bones and tiger bones look exactly the same, and so in a stroke, the lion bone industry is going to wipe out all the tigers. So we have a real problem here, no more so than the lions do, the male lions. So the 20,000 lion figure that you just saw is actually a red herring, because there may be 3,000 or 4,000 male lions, and they all are actually infected with the same disease. I call it complacency — our complacency. Because there's a sport, there's an activity going on that we're all aware of, that we condone. And that's probably because we haven't seen it like we are today. BJ: And you have to know that, when a male lion is killed, it completely disrupts the whole pride. A new male comes into the area and takes over the pride, and, of course, first of all kills all the cubs and possibly some of the females that are defending their cubs. So we've estimated that between 20 [and] 30 lions are killed when one lion is hanging on a wall somewhere in a far-off place. DJ: So what our investigations have shown is that these lions are essential. They're essential to the habitat. If they disappear, whole ecosystems in Africa disappear. There's an 80-billion-dollar-a-year ecotourism revenue stream into Africa. So this is not just a concern about lions; it's a concern about communities in Africa as well. If they disappear, all of that goes away. But what I'm more concerned about in many ways is that, as we de-link ourselves from nature, as we de-link ourselves spiritually from these animals, we lose hope, we lose that spiritual connection, our dignity, that thing within us that keeps us connected to the planet. BJ: So you have to know, looking into the eyes of lions and leopards right now, it is all about critical awareness. And so what we are doing, in February, we're bringing out a film called ""The Last Lion,"" and ""The Last Lion"" is exactly what is happening right now. That is the situation we're in — the last lions. That is, if we don't take action and do something, these plains will be completely devoid of big cats, and then, in turn, everything else will disappear. And simply, if we can't protect them, we're going to have a job protecting ourselves as well. DJ: And in fact, that original thing that we spoke about and designed our lives by — that conservation was all about respect and celebration — is probably true. That's really what it needs. We need it. We respect and celebrate each other as a man and a woman, as a community and as part of this planet, and we need to continue that. And Legadema? Well we can report, in fact, that we're grandparents. (Laughter) BJ/DJ: Thank you very much. (Applause)"	Beverly Joubert說：我們真的非常熱心於非洲的自然原生態以及對這些原生態的保護。因此一直以來我們都集中關注這些有代表性的貓科動物。是的我知道，相比起人類的苦難和貧窮甚至是氣候變化，你也許會問，何必為幾隻貓操心？今天我們在這裡和大家分享我們所學到的一個訊息從一個非常重要和特殊的對象那裡學到的——就是這頭花豹。 Dereck Joubert說：基本上我們的生活一直以來就是一集超長的“犯罪現場調查”（CSI）——整整長達28年。根本上，我們一直所做的就是研究這個學科，觀察動物的行為，我們看到兩千多次這種令人驚歎的動物施行的獵殺。但是其中一樣科學無法告訴我們的是個性，就是每一個動物所有的獨特個性。這就是主要例子。我們在非洲一棵兩千年的猴麵包樹上，發現的這隻花豹。就在同一棵樹上我們還觀察過她的母親和她的外祖母。她帶領我們踏上一段旅程向我們展現了一些非常特殊的東西——她的女兒，八天大。當我們發現這隻花豹的那刻，我們就意識到我們需要搬來這裡。於是我們基本上就和這隻花豹在一起在接下來的四年半時間裡——追蹤她的每一天，逐步瞭解她，她的獨特個性，然後真正地認識了她。我真是命中註定要花大量的時間和一些獨特的，非常特立獨行的充滿個性，同時也非常有魅力的女性在一起。（觀眾笑聲）Beverly顯然是其中之一，而這頭小花豹，Legadema則是另一個，她改變了我們的生活。 BJ: 我們的確花了很多時間和她在一起——事實上，多過她媽媽和她一起的時間。當她媽媽出去獵食時，我們還在那裡拍攝。早先時候，一道大閃電劈中一棵樹，離我們就20步的距離。當時非常嚇人。葉子像下雨一樣落到我們頭上，還伴隨著很難聞的味道。當然我們有一陣都嚇懵了，但當我們回過神來時，我們看向那邊想說，“天啊，那個小豹子會怎麼想？她可能會永遠地把那聲震耳欲聾的聲音和我們兩個聯繫起來。”其實我們一點都不需要擔心。她從灌木叢中筆直地沖向我們，坐在我們旁邊，瑟瑟發抖，她背對著Dereck，四處張望。事實上就是從那天起，她接受了我們的存在。因此我們覺得就是在那天，她真正獲得了屬於自己的名字。我們叫她Legadema意思就是“來自天空的閃電。” DJ:現在我們已經在各種動物身上發現它們各自的性格。尤其是貓科動物。這是Eetwidomayloh，意思就是：烈焰騰騰。你一看到它的樣子就能瞭解到，你知道——這就是它的性格。但是只有通過貼近這些動物，和牠們長時間在一起我們才能真正接觸到挖掘出牠們所具有的這些個性。 BJ:但是在我們的探索過程中，我們不得不尋找非洲最為荒野的地方。這裡是Okavango三角洲，位於博茨瓦納。是的，這裡是沼澤地。我們就住在沼澤地的一個帳篷裏。但是我必須告訴你們，這裡的每一天都是激動人心的。但是同時，提心吊膽的情況也占據了多數時間，因為我們要開車涉水，而這裡是一片未知的領域。但我們確實在那裡尋找，追蹤並拍攝這些大型貓科動物。 DJ: 其中一大發現就是，當然，每個人都知道，貓不喜歡水。所以這對我們來說真是一個大發現。而我們要想發現這個就必須逼著自己，去到理智的人不會去的地方——順便說一句，Beverly起了很大的督促作用——這樣不斷地打破底線，去到荒無人煙的地方，考驗我們的車子，也考驗我們自己。但我們費儘艱辛終於發現，這些獅子比其他獅子大百分之十五，牠們的獨特之處就在於專門在水裡捕捉野牛。 BJ: 當然另一個考驗在於知道什麽時候該掉頭轉向。我們對轉向的時機把握的不是太好。尤其是這一天，我們嚴重地低估了水深。陷得越來越深，一直淹到了Dereck的胸口。然後我們撞進一個很深的窪地裡頭，水把車子淹得很厲害。我們實際上不得不任由200萬美元的攝像器材淹沒在水裡。一同淹沒的還有我們的驕傲，我不得不說，那次真的很嚴重，而且發動機抱缸了（基本等於報廢）。 DJ: 當然，我們車上的其中一條軍規就是誰把車開到水裡誰就下去和鱷魚游泳。（觀眾笑聲）你還會注意到這裡所有的圖片都是Beverly從高處拍的——順便說一句，是乾燥的高處。（觀眾笑聲）但是所有這些令我們陷入困境的地方都讓我們歎為觀止。這樣的事情發生過不止一次，這些獅子向我們走來，Beverly 得以拍到絕佳的照片。 BJ: 但是我們確實日日夜夜都在努力抓住那些獨一無二的瞬間。20年前，我們拍攝了一部影片，叫做“永遠的敵人”在這部影片裡我們得以捕捉到這種異常令人不安的行為出現在兩種動物之間——獅子和鬣狗。令人驚訝的是，這片子竟然成為一部邪典電影。我們唯一能想到的理由就是人們看到了自然界中殘忍殺戮的一面與黑幫火拼之間的關聯。 DJ: 這真是很神奇，因為你能看到這頭雄獅確實像它的名字的含義一樣，殺氣騰騰。它盯上了這隻鬣狗，即將要獵殺它。（動物嚎叫）但我認為這就是這部影片的目的所在，即所有這些動物都帶有它們各自的性格和特點。而在我們拍攝它們期間，我們不僅要挑戰自己的底線，我們還遵循著一些互動原則，就是說我們不能干涉。這樣的行為已經持續了大約三，四，五百萬年之久，我們不能突然站出來說，“這樣是錯的，那樣是對的。”但對我們來說往往不易做到。 BJ: 正如Dereck所說，我們必須經歷很多極端的情況——夜晚我們被迫經歷極端的溫度狀況，睡眠缺乏也相當嚴重。在絕大部份時間裡，我們都處在臨界的狀態。在十年間，我們試圖拍攝到獅子和大象在一起——卻從未成功直到這天晚上。我必須告訴你們對我來說這是非常不安的一個晚上。我熱淚滾滾，焦急得瑟瑟發抖。但是我知道這是爲了拍攝到以前從未有人目睹，也從未被記錄下來的情景。而我堅信你們應該和我們一起看下去。 DJ:這些時刻的神奇之處——而這可能也是我們事業的精彩之處——就在於你從來不知道事情將會如何結束。很多人都會覺得，事實上，死亡始於眼睛，而不是內心，更不是始於肺部。而這就是當人放棄希望的樣子，或是任何生命放棄希望的樣子。你可以看到，從這裡就開始了。這頭大象，在寡不敵眾的情況下，乾脆放棄了希望。但是同樣的情況下，你也可以重新燃起希望。所以就在你認為一切已經結束時，有什麽事情發生了，一些小火花激勵了你，某種戰鬥下去的願望——我們每個人都有這種堅強的意志，這頭大象有，自然保護區有，大貓們也有。大家都有著堅強的意志去生存，去拼搏，去衝破內心的關卡，繼續前進。對我們來說，從某種程度上，這頭大象已經成為激勵我們的一個象徵，是我們投入工作時的希望象徵。 （觀眾掌聲） 現在回到這頭花豹。我們長時間和這頭花豹在一起，得以熟悉她的個性，和個人風格，可能我們和她的關係更親密一些。甚至可能太過接納她的存在了，而也許她并不喜歡這樣。當夫妻兩個一起工作時也是如此，我需要說明的就是在越野車裡，Beverly和我有著嚴格的地盤劃分。Beverly坐的那邊放著她全部的攝影器材，而另一邊是我的地盤。這些分界對我們來說很重要。 BJ: 但是當這頭小豹子看到我離開座位，爬到車後面拿些照相器材時，她就像一隻好奇的貓一樣爬進來探索一番。這很不尋常，我們也非常感謝她對我們信任到如此程度。但與此同時，我們也很擔心如果她養成這樣的習慣，跳到別人的車裡，結果可能大不相同——她可能因此遭到射殺。因此我們知道我們必須快速反應。我們想唯一能做的而又不嚇到她的方法就是試著發出像她媽媽那樣的低聲咆哮——伴隨著嘶嘶的聲音。於是Dereck把車內的熱風扇打開——很有創意吧。 DJ: 這是我挽救這段婚姻的唯一方法，因為，你看，Beverly覺得自己要被取代了。（觀眾笑聲）但是的的確確，這就是這頭小花豹如何向我們表現出她獨特的個性。但是我們絕對沒有想到接下來我們和她之間發生的事，那是在她開始自己捕獵後。 BJ: 對於這第一次捕獵，我們真是非常興奮。我就像在觀看一場畢業典禮。我們覺得自己好像是代理家長。當然，我們那時可以確定，她將能夠生存下去。但只是當我們看到那個小小的狒狒幼崽掛在它媽媽的身上時我們才意識到一件非常特殊的事正發生在Legadema身上。當然，小狒狒完全不明白發生了什麽，它沒有轉身逃走。於是我們看到的接下來的幾個小時是極其特別的。這絕對讓人覺得驚奇她把它叼起來放到安全的地方，保護它不被鬣狗叼走。接下來的5個小時裡，她一直照料著它。我們認識到我們其實并不是什麽都瞭解的，大自然是如此的神奇莫測，我們必須時刻保持著開放的態度。 DJ:哦，她是有些粗魯。（觀眾笑聲）但事實上，我們所看到的這一幕很有趣。因為她自己還是一個想要玩耍的小豹子，但同時又是一個需要殺戮的捕食者，然而某程度上與之相矛盾的是，因為她又是一個未來的母親。她具備這種母性的本能，很像是一個小姑娘正在成長為一個成熟女性。因此這把我們帶到一個全新的層次來理解她的個性。 BJ: 當然，一整夜他們都靠在一起。他們在一起睡了好幾個小時。但是我不得不告訴大家——每一個人都會問，“那個小狒狒最後怎樣了？”它確實是死了。我們懷疑是因為寒冷的冬夜。 DJ:到了這裡，我認為我們有了一些非常堅定的信念關於自然保護區存在的意義。我們必須面對這些獨特的個性。我們必須帶著尊重面對牠們，讚美牠們。於是我們和國家地理頻道一起組成了“大貓保育計劃”將它在保護區裡頭推展開，以照顧這些我們喜愛的大貓——於是也有機會回顧過去50年來我們都做了些什麽。也就是說當Beverly 和我剛出生時，大約有45萬頭獅子，而今天大約為2萬頭。老虎的遭遇也不樂觀——從四萬五千頭減少到三千頭。 BJ: 獵豹的數量一路降低到一萬二千頭。花豹則從70萬頭銳減到差不多5萬頭。尤其是在我們和Legadema在一起的這段時間，大約5年多的時間——一萬頭花豹被假日獵手們合法地射殺。而這還不是所有在這段時間被殺死的花豹。偷獵的數量也很巨大。很可能也是一萬頭。這絕對是不可持續的。我們欽佩牠們，我們也畏懼牠們。然而，作為人，我們想竊取牠們的力量。曾經有段時間只有國王才穿豹皮，但是現在，使用在所有的儀式和典禮上，傳統的醫者和大臣們也穿著豹皮。然後，看看這支獅爪，已經被剝皮，它詭異地讓我想起人類的手。而這很諷刺，因為牠們的命運的確在我們手中。 DJ: 還有一個正在快速發展中的骨頭交易。南非剛剛向這個市場投放了一些獅子骨頭。獅子和老虎的骨頭看上去完全一樣，因此很快地，獅子骨頭產業將取代所有的虎骨。由此我們真正面臨的問題，沒有比獅子的問題更嚴重的了，尤其是雄獅。你們剛剛看到的2萬頭獅子這個數字事實上只是一個幌子，因為其中大約有3到4千隻雄獅，事實上牠們全部都感染了同樣的疾病。我稱之為自傲——我們人類的自傲。因為打獵這種運動，它的存在我們都知道，卻聽之任之。而這很可能是因為我們還沒看到這運動目前的狀況。 BJ: 還有你們必須要瞭解當一頭雄獅被殺死時，整個獅群都被摧毀了。一頭新來的雄獅會進入到該片領域接管整個獅群，然後，當然，首先就會殺死所有的幼獅，可能還會殺死一些保護自己幼崽的母獅。因此我們大概估算大概要殺死20到30頭獅子才能讓一頭雄獅的頭掛到某個遙遠地方的牆上。 DJ: 因此我們的研究表明這些雄獅是至關重要的。牠們對棲息地來說是重要的。如果牠們消失了，整個非洲的生態系統都會消失。每年非洲可獲得價值800億美元的生態旅遊收入。所以這不僅僅是在關心獅子，也是在關心非洲的社群。如果牠們消失了，那所有這些都完了。但是我在更多方面的擔心是當我們和自然脫鉤，當我們從靈性上和這些動物脫鉤時，我們就失去了希望，失去了精神上的聯繫，失去了我們的人格，而正是這內在於我們的東西，使我們保持與這個星球的聯繫。 BJ: 因此你們必須瞭解，此時此刻望向這些獅子和豹子的眼睛，所需要的就是關鍵性的覺醒。所以我們要做的，就是在2月將發佈一部電影，叫做“最後的獅子”。而“最後的獅子”恰恰就是現在正在發生的事實。這就是我們目前所處在的情形——最後的獅子。就是說，如果我們不採取行動去做點什麽，這些平原上將完全失去這些大貓。而其後果就是其餘的一切也將隨之消亡。很簡單，如果我們不能保護牠們，我們接下來的工作就是要保護我們自己了。 DJ: 而事實上，我們所談論的也是我們照著去生活的最根本的東西——也就是保護區的意義就在於尊重和讚美——這一點很可能就是真理所在；那就是我們真正需要的東西。我們需要牠。我們彼此尊重和讚美對方作為男人和女人，作為一個社群，同時作為這個星球的一部份，我們要將它延續下去。 至於Legadema？我們可以告訴大家，事實上，我們做外祖父外祖母了。 （觀眾笑聲） BJ/DJ: 非常感謝大家。 （掌聲）
