Talk	en	zh-tw
bill_davenhall_your_health_depends_on_where_you_live	"Can geographic information make you healthy? In 2001 I got hit by a train. My train was a heart attack. I found myself in a hospital in an intensive-care ward, recuperating from emergency surgery. And I suddenly realized something: that I was completely in the dark. I started asking my questions, ""Well, why me?"" ""Why now?"" ""Why here?"" ""Could my doctor have warned me?"" So, what I want to do here in the few minutes I have with you is really talk about what is the formula for life and good health. Genetics, lifestyle and environment. That's going to sort of contain our risks, and if we manage those risks we're going to live a good life and a good healthy life. Well, I understand the genetics and lifestyle part. And you know why I understand that? Because my physicians constantly ask me questions about this. Have you ever had to fill out those long, legal-size forms in your doctor's office? I mean, if you're lucky enough you get to do it more than once, right? (Laughter) Do it over and over again. And they ask you questions about your lifestyle and your family history, your medication history, your surgical history, your allergy history ... did I forget any history? But this part of the equation I didn't really get, and I don't think my physicians really get this part of the equation. What does that mean, my environment? Well, it can mean a lot of things. This is my life. These are my life places. We all have these. While I'm talking I'd like you to also be thinking about: How many places have you lived? Just think about that, you know, wander through your life thinking about this. And you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places. You spend it at rest and you spend it at work. And if you're like me, you're in an airplane a good portion of your time traveling some place. So, it's not really simple when somebody asks you, ""Where do you live, where do you work, and where do you spend all your time? And where do you expose yourselves to risks that maybe perhaps you don't even see?"" Well, when I have done this on myself, I always come to the conclusion that I spend about 75 percent of my time relatively in a small number of places. And I don't wander far from that place for a majority of my time, even though I'm an extensive global trekker. Now, I'm going to take you on a little journey here. I started off in Scranton, Pennsylvania. I don't know if anybody might hail from northeastern Pennsylvania, but this is where I spent my first 19 years with my little young lungs. You know, breathing high concentrations here of sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide and methane gas, in unequal quantities — 19 years of this. And if you've been in that part of the country, this is what those piles of burning, smoldering coal waste look like. So then I decided to leave that part of the world, and I was going to go to the mid-west. OK, so I ended up in Louisville, Kentucky. Well, I decided to be neighbors to a place called Rubbertown. They manufacture plastics. They use large quantities chloroprene and benzene. Okay, I spent 25 years, in my middle-age lungs now, breathing various concentrations of that. And on a clear day it always looked like this, so you never saw it. It was insidious and it was really happening. Then I decided I had to get really smart, I would take this job in the West Coast. And I moved to Redlands California. Very nice, and there my older, senior lungs, as I like to call them, I filled with particulate matter, carbon dioxide and very high doses of ozone. Okay? Almost like the highest in the nation. Alright, this is what it looks like on a good day. If you've been there, you know what I'm talking about. So, what's wrong with this picture? Well, the picture is, there is a huge gap here. The one thing that never happens in my doctor's office: They never ask me about my place history. No doctor, can I remember, ever asking me, ""Where have you lived?"" They haven't asked me what kind of the quality of the drinking water that I put in my mouth or the food that I ingest into my stomach. They really don't do that. It's missing. Look at the kind of data that's available. This data's from all over the world — countries spend billions of dollars investing in this kind of research. Now, I've circled the places where I've been. Well, by design, if I wanted to have a heart attack I'd been in the right places. Right? So, how many people are in the white? How many people in the room have spent the majority of their life in the white space? Anybody? Boy you're lucky. How many have spent it in the red places? Oh, not so lucky. There are thousands of these kinds of maps that are displayed in atlases all over the world. They give us some sense of what's going to be our train wreck. But none of that's in my medical record. And it's not in yours either. So, here's my friend Paul. He's a colleague. He allowed his cell phone to be tracked every two hours, 24/7, 365 days out of the year for the last two years, everywhere he went. And you can see he's been to a few places around the United States. And this is where he has spent most of his time. If you really studied that you might have some clues as to what Paul likes to do. Anybody got any clues? Ski. Right. We can zoom in here, and we suddenly see that now we see where Paul has really spent a majority of his time. And all of those black dots are all of the toxic release inventories that are monitored by the EPA. Did you know that data existed? For every community in the United States, you could have your own personalized map of that. So, our cell phones can now build a place history. This is how Paul did it. He did it with his iPhone. This might be what we end up with. This is what the physician would have in front of him and her when we enter that exam room instead of just the pink slip that said I paid at the counter. Right? This could be my little assessment. And he looks at that and he says, ""Whoa Bill, I suggest that maybe you not decide, just because you're out here in beautiful California, and it's warm every day, that you get out and run at six o'clock at night. I'd suggest that that's a bad idea Bill, because of this report."" What I'd like to leave you for are two prescriptions. Okay, number one is, we must teach physicians about the value of geographical information. It's called geomedicine. There are about a half a dozen programs in the world right now that are focused on this. And they're in the early stages of development. These programs need to be supported, and we need to teach our future doctors of the world the importance of some of the information I've shared here with you today. The second thing we need to do is while we're spending billions and billions of dollars all over the world building an electronic health record, we make sure we put a place history inside that medical record. It not only will be important for the physician; it will be important for the researchers that now will have huge samples to draw upon. But it will also be useful for us. I could have made the decision, if I had this information, not to move to the ozone capital of the United States, couldn't I? I could make that decision. Or I could negotiate with my employer to make that decision in the best interest of myself and my company. With that, I would like to just say that Jack Lord said this almost 10 years ago. Just look at that for a minute. That was what the conclusion of the Dartmouth Atlas of Healthcare was about, was saying that we can explain the geographic variations that occur in disease, in illness, in wellness, and how our healthcare system actually operates. That was what he was talking about on that quote. And I would say he got it right almost a decade ago. So, I'd very much like to see us begin to really seize this as an opportunity to get this into our medical records. So with that, I'll leave you that in my particular view of view of health: Geography always matters. And I believe that geographic information can make both you and me very healthy. Thank you. (Applause)"	"地理資訊能讓你更健康嗎?2001年一輛火車撞上了我，那輛火車名為心臟病，我發現自己身處醫院中的一間加護病房裡，剛從急診撿回一命。我忽然驚覺到一件事，那就是,我對自己的狀況一無所知。我開始問自己""為什麼是我?""""為什麼是現在?"",""為什麼在這裡?""""我的醫生能否提早警告我?"" 因此,我想在這裡花幾分鐘時間和你們聊聊，何謂生活方程式，以及健康。這個方程式包括基因、生活型態及環境等，這些都是風險，如果我們能掌握這些風險，我們就能活得好，活得健康。我瞭解自己的基因和生活型態這部分，你知道我怎麼知道的嗎?因為我的內科醫生一直以來都會詢問我這些問題。 你是否曾在醫生的辦公室裡填寫過那些法定規格的冗長表格呢?我是說，如果你夠幸運的話，還能多填幾次對吧?(笑聲)寫了一遍又一遍,表格上問的問題包含生活型態,家族病史,你的用藥史,手術史,過敏史等...我有漏了什麼史嗎? 不過方程式裡有一部份我不是很懂，我也不認為我的醫生真正瞭解方程式裡的這個部分，也就是，我的生活環境代表什麼?我說,它的意義可多了，這是我的生活，還有我居住的地方，我們都有這些。我在講的時候,希望你們能想想你們住過多少個地方? 只要想著這點，回顧你的生命歷程，你會發現,你曾待過許多地方，休息的地方,工作的地方。若你像我,你會花很多時間搭飛機，到一些地方旅行。所以,要回答這些問題並不簡單。當有人問""你住哪?在哪工作?你平常都待在哪裡?你是否將自己暴露於危險的環境之中，就連你自己也不知道？""當我自己想這些問題時，總是得到一個結論，我花了大約75%的時間，只待在少數幾個地方。大部分時間我都不會離這些地方太遠，儘管我經常旅行世界各地。 現在,我要帶你們踏上一小段旅程，從賓州的斯克蘭頓出發，我不知這裡是否有人來自賓州東北部，但這是我人生最初19年所待的地方，那時我的肺還很年輕。我在這裡吞吐高濃度的廢氣，包括二氧化硫,二氧化碳，以及甲烷，每一種廢氣量都不是很平均，但我吸足了19年。如果你也待過那個地方，這就是那堆燃燒、悶燒的煤灰廢棄物的樣子。 所以,我決定離開那個世界。我當時正想去中西部，因此,我在肯塔基州的路易維爾落腳。我住在鄰近一個叫羅柏鎮的地方，那裡生產塑膠,大量使用氯丁二烯，還有苯。然後,我和我中年的肺在這住了25年，每天呼吸那些各式各樣的高濃度化學物質。天晴的日子,看起來總是這樣,因此你從沒發現。你看不見這些風險,但他們卻無所不在。 接著我認為自己應該學聰明點，我應該接下這個西岸的工作。然後我搬到加州瑞得蘭市，那裡好極了，我那年紀大的肺,我總愛這麼稱呼他，現在充滿了微粒分子,二氧化碳,以及高濃度的臭氧，你知道嗎?幾乎是全國濃度最高的。這是那裡天氣好的樣子，如果你去過那裡,你就知道我的意思。 所以,這張圖有什麼問題?其實,這張圖還遺漏了一個重點。在我的醫生的辦公室裡,有件事從沒發生過，他們從不過問我的""居住史""。沒有一個醫生,在我的記憶裡,曾經問過我：""你住過哪裡?""他們從沒問過我關於我所飲用的水的品質，或是我吃的食物的品質。他們從不過問,這些被遺漏了。看看眼前這些資料，這些數據來自全世界—各國花了好幾十億美金投入這項研究。 現在,我圈出了我曾待過的地方，簡直像計算好的一樣,如果我想得心臟病，我都待在了正確的地方,是吧?那麼,有多少人住在白色的區域裡?這個房間裡,有多少人花了大半輩子待在白色的區域裡呢?有人嗎?你們真幸運。有多少人住過紅色的區域呢?喔,你們沒那麼幸運。像這樣的地圖有上千份，他們被收錄在地圖集裡，全世界都有。這些地圖讓我們知道，撞倒我們的火車可能會是什麼。但這些都不包含在我的醫療記錄裡，也不在你們的記錄裡。 所以,現在來看我的朋友保羅。他是我的同僚,他同意讓我們追蹤他的手機位址，每兩小時追蹤一次,每天24小時,每週7天，一年365天全程追蹤。過去兩年內,我們把他的所到之處都記錄了下來。就像你看到的,他去過美國幾個地方，而這裡是他花最多時間待的地方。如果你仔細觀察,你可能會有些頭緒，發現保羅喜歡從事什麼活動。有人發現了什麼嗎?沒錯,是滑雪。我們把畫面拉近一點,就可以看到保羅大部份時間所待的地方。而這些黑點的地方，全都是有毒廢棄物的存放地點，這些地點由美國環保局監測。 你知道這些數據的存在嗎?美國的每個社區都有這些資料，你可以擁有像那樣的個人化地圖。所以,手機可以替我們建立居住史，就如同保羅的做法,他用他的iPhone做到了。這是我們最後會得到的結果， 這份資訊也會在我們進入診間時，被放在醫生的面前，而不是只有一張要我在櫃台付帳的粉紅色單據,對吧?以下可能是醫生對我的一點小評估，他會看這些資料,然後說：""喔,比爾，我建議你不該這麼做，不能因為你在美麗的加州,每天天氣暖和,就晚上六點出門跑步，我得說那不是個好主意,比爾,這份報告說得夠清楚了。"" 我想要留給你們兩份處方，好的,首先,我們必須教導醫生，讓他們重視地理資訊的價值，這稱為地理醫學,世界上約有6個計畫，正針對這個主題進行研究，他們還處於早期發展階段，需要各界的支持。我們必須教育未來世界上的醫生，這些資訊的重要性，這些我今天都告訴你們了。 我們要做的第二件事情，是當我們花了好幾十億美金，在全世界建立電子醫療紀錄的時候，我們要確定有把居住史列入那份醫療紀錄中。這不只對醫生的診療很重要，對研究人員也很重要，因為他們將有大量可供參考的樣本。不過,這對我們也很實用，因為如果我以前有這些資料,我可能會決定不搬到美國的臭氧首府，不是嗎?我可能會那麼決定。或者我會和我的雇主協調，以做出那樣的決定，並取得我和公司間的最大利益。 因此,我想要說Jack Lord說過的話(地理是醫學的命運主宰)這是他將近十年前所說的話。再多看一眼，這就是Dartmouth Atlas保健計畫的結論，就是說,我們可以解釋不同的地理環境和疾病、病痛、健康間的關係，以及它對於我們醫療系統實際運作的影響。那正是他所說的那句話的含意。而我必須說,他在約十年前就瞭解了這一點，因此,我很樂意看到大家開始真正地把握這次機會，把居住史加入我們的醫療紀錄中。所以,我最後要告訴你們的，是我自己對於健康的一個特別的觀點：地理永遠都很重要，而我相信地理資訊，能讓你我都健健康康,謝謝。(掌聲)"
