Talk	en	zh-tw
billy_graham_on_technology_faith_and_suffering	"As a clergyman, you can imagine how out of place I feel. I feel like a fish out of water, or maybe an owl out of the air. (Laughter) I was preaching in San Jose some time ago, and my friend Mark Kvamme, who helped introduce me to this conference, brought several CEOs and leaders of some of the companies here in the Silicon Valley to have breakfast with me, or I with them. And I was so stimulated. And had such — it was an eye-opening experience to hear them talk about the world that is yet to come through technology and science. I know that we're near the end of this conference, and some of you may be wondering why they have a speaker from the field of religion. Richard can answer that, because he made that decision. But some years ago I was on an elevator in Philadelphia, coming down. I was to address a conference at a hotel. And on that elevator a man said, ""I hear Billy Graham is staying in this hotel."" And another man looked in my direction and said, ""Yes, there he is. He's on this elevator with us."" And this man looked me up and down for about 10 seconds, and he said, ""My, what an anticlimax!"" (Laughter) I hope that you won't feel that these few moments with me is not a — is an anticlimax, after all these tremendous talks that you've heard, and addresses, which I intend to listen to every one of them. But I was on an airplane in the east some years ago, and the man sitting across the aisle from me was the mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina. His name was John Belk. Some of you will probably know him. And there was a drunk man on there, and he got up out of his seat two or three times, and he was making everybody upset by what he was trying to do. And he was slapping the stewardess and pinching her as she went by, and everybody was upset with him. And finally, John Belk said, ""Do you know who's sitting here?"" And the man said, ""No, who?"" He said, ""It's Billy Graham, the preacher."" He said, ""You don't say!"" And he turned to me, and he said, ""Put her there!"" He said, ""Your sermons have certainly helped me."" (Laughter) And I suppose that that's true with thousands of people. (Laughter) I know that as you have been peering into the future, and as we've heard some of it here tonight, I would like to live in that age and see what is going to be. But I won't, because I'm 80 years old. This is my eightieth year, and I know that my time is brief. I have phlebitis at the moment, in both legs, and that's the reason that I had to have a little help in getting up here, because I have Parkinson's disease in addition to that, and some other problems that I won't talk about. (Laughter) But this is not the first time that we've had a technological revolution. We've had others. And there's one that I want to talk about. In one generation, the nation of the people of Israel had a tremendous and dramatic change that made them a great power in the Near East. A man by the name of David came to the throne, and King David became one of the great leaders of his generation. He was a man of tremendous leadership. He had the favor of God with him. He was a brilliant poet, philosopher, writer, soldier — with strategies in battle and conflict that people study even today. But about two centuries before David, the Hittites had discovered the secret of smelting and processing of iron, and, slowly, that skill spread. But they wouldn't allow the Israelis to look into it, or to have any. But David changed all of that, and he introduced the Iron Age to Israel. And the Bible says that David laid up great stores of iron, and which archaeologists have found, that in present-day Palestine, there are evidences of that generation. Now, instead of crude tools made of sticks and stones, Israel now had iron plows, and sickles, and hoes and military weapons. And in the course of one generation, Israel was completely changed. The introduction of iron, in some ways, had an impact a little bit like the microchip has had on our generation. And David found that there were many problems that technology could not solve. There were many problems still left. And they're still with us, and you haven't solved them, and I haven't heard anybody here speak to that. How do we solve these three problems that I'd like to mention? The first one that David saw was human evil. Where does it come from? How do we solve it? Over again and again in the Psalms, which Gladstone said was the greatest book in the world, David describes the evils of the human race. And yet he says, ""He restores my soul."" Have you ever thought about what a contradiction we are? On one hand, we can probe the deepest secrets of the universe and dramatically push back the frontiers of technology, as this conference vividly demonstrates. We've seen under the sea, three miles down, or galaxies hundreds of billions of years out in the future. But on the other hand, something is wrong. Our battleships, our soldiers, are on a frontier now, almost ready to go to war with Iraq. Now, what causes this? Why do we have these wars in every generation, and in every part of the world? And revolutions? We can't get along with other people, even in our own families. We find ourselves in the paralyzing grip of self-destructive habits we can't break. Racism and injustice and violence sweep our world, bringing a tragic harvest of heartache and death. Even the most sophisticated among us seem powerless to break this cycle. I would like to see Oracle take up that, or some other technological geniuses work on this. How do we change man, so that he doesn't lie and cheat, and our newspapers are not filled with stories of fraud in business or labor or athletics or wherever? The Bible says the problem is within us, within our hearts and our souls. Our problem is that we are separated from our Creator, which we call God, and we need to have our souls restored, something only God can do. Jesus said, ""For out of the heart come evil thoughts: murders, sexual immorality, theft, false testimonies, slander."" The British philosopher Bertrand Russell was not a religious man, but he said, ""It's in our hearts that the evil lies, and it's from our hearts that it must be plucked out."" Albert Einstein — I was just talking to someone, when I was speaking at Princeton, and I met Mr. Einstein. He didn't have a doctor's degree, because he said nobody was qualified to give him one. (Laughter) But he made this statement. He said, ""It's easier to denature plutonium than to denature the evil spirit of man."" And many of you, I'm sure, have thought about that and puzzled over it. You've seen people take beneficial technological advances, such as the Internet we've heard about tonight, and twist them into something corrupting. You've seen brilliant people devise computer viruses that bring down whole systems. The Oklahoma City bombing was simple technology, horribly used. The problem is not technology. The problem is the person or persons using it. King David said that he knew the depths of his own soul. He couldn't free himself from personal problems and personal evils that included murder and adultery. Yet King David sought God's forgiveness, and said, ""You can restore my soul."" You see, the Bible teaches that we're more than a body and a mind. We are a soul. And there's something inside of us that is beyond our understanding. That's the part of us that yearns for God, or something more than we find in technology. Your soul is that part of you that yearns for meaning in life, and which seeks for something beyond this life. It's the part of you that yearns, really, for God. I find [that] young people all over the world are searching for something. They don't know what it is. I speak at many universities, and I have many questions and answer periods, and whether it's Cambridge, or Harvard, or Oxford — I've spoken at all of those universities. I'm going to Harvard in about three or four — no, it's about two months from now — to give a lecture. And I'll be asked the same questions that I was asked the last few times I've been there. And it'll be on these questions: where did I come from? Why am I here? Where am I going? What's life all about? Why am I here? Even if you have no religious belief, there are times when you wonder that there's something else. Thomas Edison also said, ""When you see everything that happens in the world of science, and in the working of the universe, you cannot deny that there's a captain on the bridge."" I remember once, I sat beside Mrs. Gorbachev at a White House dinner. I went to Ambassador Dobrynin, whom I knew very well. And I'd been to Russia several times under the Communists, and they'd given me marvelous freedom that I didn't expect. And I knew Mr. Dobrynin very well, and I said, ""I'm going to sit beside Mrs. Gorbachev tonight. What shall I talk to her about?"" And he surprised me with the answer. He said, ""Talk to her about religion and philosophy. That's what she's really interested in."" I was a little bit surprised, but that evening that's what we talked about, and it was a stimulating conversation. And afterward, she said, ""You know, I'm an atheist, but I know that there's something up there higher than we are."" The second problem that King David realized he could not solve was the problem of human suffering. Writing the oldest book in the world was Job, and he said, ""Man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward."" Yes, to be sure, science has done much to push back certain types of human suffering. But I'm — in a few months, I'll be 80 years of age. I admit that I'm very grateful for all the medical advances that have kept me in relatively good health all these years. My doctors at the Mayo Clinic urged me not to take this trip out here to this — to be here. I haven't given a talk in nearly four months. And when you speak as much as I do, three or four times a day, you get rusty. That's the reason I'm using this podium and using these notes. Every time you ever hear me on the television or somewhere, I'm ad-libbing. I'm not reading. I never read an address. I never read a speech or a talk or a lecture. I talk ad lib. But tonight, I've got some notes here so that if I begin to forget, which I do sometimes, I've got something I can turn to. But even here among us, most — in the most advanced society in the world, we have poverty. We have families that self-destruct, friends that betray us. Unbearable psychological pressures bear down on us. I've never met a person in the world that didn't have a problem or a worry. Why do we suffer? It's an age-old question that we haven't answered. Yet David again and again said that he would turn to God. He said, ""The Lord is my shepherd."" The final problem that David knew he could not solve was death. Many commentators have said that death is the forbidden subject of our generation. Most people live as if they're never going to die. Technology projects the myth of control over our mortality. We see people on our screens. Marilyn Monroe is just as beautiful on the screen as she was in person, and our — many young people think she's still alive. They don't know that she's dead. Or Clark Gable, or whoever it is. The old stars, they come to life. And they're — they're just as great on that screen as they were in person. But death is inevitable. I spoke some time ago to a joint session of Congress, last year. And we were meeting in that room, the statue room. About 300 of them were there. And I said, ""There's one thing that we have in common in this room, all of us together, whether Republican or Democrat, or whoever."" I said, ""We're all going to die. And we have that in common with all these great men of the past that are staring down at us."" And it's often difficult for young people to understand that. It's difficult for them to understand that they're going to die. As the ancient writer of Ecclesiastes wrote, he said, there's every activity under heaven. There's a time to be born, and there's a time to die. I've stood at the deathbed of several famous people, whom you would know. I've talked to them. I've seen them in those agonizing moments when they were scared to death. And yet, a few years earlier, death never crossed their mind. I talked to a woman this past week whose father was a famous doctor. She said he never thought of God, never talked about God, didn't believe in God. He was an atheist. But she said, as he came to die, he sat up on the side of the bed one day, and he asked the nurse if he could see the chaplain. And he said, for the first time in his life he'd thought about the inevitable, and about God. Was there a God? A few years ago, a university student asked me, ""What is the greatest surprise in your life?"" And I said, ""The greatest surprise in my life is the brevity of life. It passes so fast."" But it does not need to have to be that way. Wernher von Braun, in the aftermath of World War II concluded, quote: ""science and religion are not antagonists. On the contrary, they're sisters."" He put it on a personal basis. I knew Dr. von Braun very well. And he said, ""Speaking for myself, I can only say that the grandeur of the cosmos serves only to confirm a belief in the certainty of a creator."" He also said, ""In our search to know God, I've come to believe that the life of Jesus Christ should be the focus of our efforts and inspiration. The reality of this life and His resurrection is the hope of mankind."" I've done a lot of speaking in Germany and in France, and in different parts of the world — 105 countries it's been my privilege to speak in. And I was invited one day to visit Chancellor Adenauer, who was looked upon as sort of the founder of modern Germany, since the war. And he once — and he said to me, he said, ""Young man."" He said, ""Do you believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ?"" And I said, ""Sir, I do."" He said, ""So do I."" He said, ""When I leave office, I'm going to spend my time writing a book on why Jesus Christ rose again, and why it's so important to believe that."" In one of his plays, Alexander Solzhenitsyn depicts a man dying, who says to those gathered around his bed, ""The moment when it's terrible to feel regret is when one is dying."" How should one live in order not to feel regret when one is dying? Blaise Pascal asked exactly that question in seventeenth-century France. Pascal has been called the architect of modern civilization. He was a brilliant scientist at the frontiers of mathematics, even as a teenager. He is viewed by many as the founder of the probability theory, and a creator of the first model of a computer. And of course, you are all familiar with the computer language named for him. Pascal explored in depth our human dilemmas of evil, suffering and death. He was astounded at the phenomenon we've been considering: that people can achieve extraordinary heights in science, the arts and human enterprise, yet they also are full of anger, hypocrisy and have — and self-hatreds. Pascal saw us as a remarkable mixture of genius and self-delusion. On November 23, 1654, Pascal had a profound religious experience. He wrote in his journal these words: ""I submit myself, absolutely, to Jesus Christ, my redeemer."" A French historian said, two centuries later, ""Seldom has so mighty an intellect submitted with such humility to the authority of Jesus Christ."" Pascal came to believe not only the love and the grace of God could bring us back into harmony, but he believed that his own sins and failures could be forgiven, and that when he died he would go to a place called heaven. He experienced it in a way that went beyond scientific observation and reason. It was he who penned the well-known words, ""The heart has its reasons, which reason knows not of."" Equally well known is Pascal's Wager. Essentially, he said this: ""if you bet on God, and open yourself to his love, you lose nothing, even if you're wrong. But if instead you bet that there is no God, then you can lose it all, in this life and the life to come."" For Pascal, scientific knowledge paled beside the knowledge of God. The knowledge of God was far beyond anything that ever crossed his mind. He was ready to face him when he died at the age of 39. King David lived to be 70, a long time in his era. Yet he too had to face death, and he wrote these words: ""even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me."" This was David's answer to three dilemmas of evil, suffering and death. It can be yours, as well, as you seek the living God and allow him to fill your life and give you hope for the future. When I was 17 years of age, I was born and reared on a farm in North Carolina. I milked cows every morning, and I had to milk the same cows every evening when I came home from school. And there were 20 of them that I had — that I was responsible for, and I worked on the farm and tried to keep up with my studies. I didn't make good grades in high school. I didn't make them in college, until something happened in my heart. One day, I was faced face-to-face with Christ. He said, ""I am the way, the truth and the life."" Can you imagine that? ""I am the truth. I'm the embodiment of all truth."" He was a liar. Or he was insane. Or he was what he claimed to be. Which was he? I had to make that decision. I couldn't prove it. I couldn't take it to a laboratory and experiment with it. But by faith I said, I believe him, and he came into my heart and changed my life. And now I'm ready, when I hear that call, to go into the presence of God. Thank you, and God bless all of you. (Applause) Thank you for the privilege. It was great. Richard Wurman: You did it. Thanks. (Applause)"	"作為一名神職人員，你們可以想像我在這樣一個場合演講感覺多麼格格不入。這種感覺就像魚離開了水，就像貓頭鷹離開了天空。 （觀眾笑聲） 以前有段時間我曾在 San Jose 傳道，我的朋友 Mark Kvamme 當時也在那，就是他幫我引薦來到 TED 的，他介紹我認識了幾名 CEO以及企業高層，他們都在矽谷這兒工作，我們一起吃早餐。他們對我觸動很大。真的是—讓我大開眼界，聽他們談論未來的世界將如何因技術和科學而改變。我知道這次論壇快接近尾聲了，你們當中也許有人會感到奇怪，為什麼大會組織者會邀請一位宗教界人士來此演講。對此，Richard 會來解答，因為是他做的這個決定。 記得幾年前有一次我在費城，當時正坐電梯下樓，要去參加一個會議，地點是一個飯店。當時在電梯裡有個人說，「我聽說葛理翰現在就在這個飯店裡。」接著，電梯裡另外一個人朝我看了看，然後說，「是的，他就在這個電梯裡。」這時先說話的那個人對著我上下打量了大約十秒鐘，然後說，「天哪，我白激動了！」 （觀眾笑聲） 我希望—今天在座各位和我共處的這一刻不會覺得失望，前面的演講都很精彩，我想每一個都聽完。我想起幾年前我在東部乘飛機的一次經歷，當時隔著走道坐在我隔壁的，是北卡羅來納州夏洛特市的市長，他叫 John Belk, 你們當中也許有人知道他。當時，飛機上還有個喝醉酒的，他從座位上起來兩三次，攪得其他人不得安寧，他甚至還對空姐動手動腳，向她揩油，他的舉動讓其他人都受不了。最後，John Belk 開口說道，「你知道誰坐在這兒嗎？」那個喝醉酒的說，「不知道。」John Belk 告訴他，「葛理翰，那個佈道家。」那個喝醉酒的說，「真沒想到！」接著，他對我說道，「真的是您！您的講道使我獲益良多。」 （觀眾笑聲） 我想他說的是真的，許多聽我講道的人也同樣得到了幫助。 （觀眾笑聲） 我知道你們都是著眼未來的人，今晚從你們的演講中，我聽到了你們對未來的一些設想，我真想生活在那樣的未來，親眼看看未來會發展成什麼樣。但我無法完成這個願望了，因為今年我已經 80 歲了，我知道我剩下的時間不多了。我雙腿都得了靜脈炎，所以剛才我上台時需要人扶著，我還有帕金森氏症，此外，還有些其他問題，我就不提了。 （觀眾笑聲） 這並不是人類第一次經歷技術革命。以前也曾有過。我想談談其中的一次。曾經有一個世代，以色列國的人民經歷了一場巨大的變革，那場變革使以色列成為了近東地區的強國。一個叫大衛的人登上了王位，大衛王成為了一個偉大的領袖，領導他的那個世代。他有出色的領導力。上帝的恩惠與他同在。他是位傑出的詩人，哲學家，作家，勇士，在戰鬥中善用戰略，連今天的人都在學習這些戰略。 雖然在大衛王朝的兩百年前，赫人 (Hittites)就發明了鐵器製造術，並且逐漸流傳開。但他們不許以色列人學習這種技術。然而大衛王改變了這種局面，他領導以色列進入鐵器時代。聖經上記載大衛王預備了許多的鐵，而且考古學家也發現了在今天的巴勒斯坦，還有那個世代的遺跡。現在，那些用木棍和石頭造的原始工具已被取代，以色列有了鐵犁鐮刀和鋤頭，還有武器。在大衛王的那一個世代，以色列徹底地改變了。可以說，製鐵術的引入所帶來的影響，有點像微晶片對我們這個世代的影響。不過大衛王也意識到還有很多問題是技術所不能解決的。 許多問題仍然存在。這些問題現在依然存在，你們也沒解決這些問題，而且我也沒聽到在座各位提到這些問題。那麼如何解決以下三個問題呢？這就是今天我想講的。大衛王發現的第一個問題就是人性的惡。這種邪惡來自哪兒呢？我們怎麼解決呢？一遍又一遍在《詩篇》當中，在這本 Gladstone (英國政治家，四次擔任英國首相) 稱為全世界最偉大的著作中，大衛王多次描述了人類的邪惡。然而他寫道，上帝「使我的靈甦醒」。在座各位是否思考過人類有多麼的自相矛盾？一方面，人類有能力探索宇宙深處的秘密，有能力讓技術不斷革新，例如這次會議所展示的這些技術革新。人類能夠探索到海面下深達三英里的海底世界，甚至數千億光年外的其他宇宙星系在不久的將來也能探索。 而另一方面，有些事情很不對勁。我們國家的戰艦和軍隊現在正在前線，在臨戰狀態，準備和伊拉克開戰。是什麼原因導致了這場戰爭？為什麼每個時代都會發生戰爭，為什麼世界上每個地方都發生過戰爭？發生過武裝革命？我們不能和別人和平共處，甚至在家裡也做不到。我們發現自己受到轄制，陷入自我毀滅的慣性，無法掙脫。種族主義、不公義、暴力無處不在，其結果就是導致痛苦和死亡。即使是在座各位當中最博學的人似乎也無法打破這個循環。我希望能有像甲骨文 (Oracle) 這樣的公司來想辦法打破這個循環。也希望其他的科技天才能夠致力於此。我們怎樣才能改變人類，使他們不撒謊、欺騙，不再在報上看到那麼多有關商業欺詐和勞動力欺詐的報導，或者運動員造假的報導？ 聖經上說，問題根源在我們自身，在我們的內心和靈魂裡面。我們的問題來自於我們和造物主分離了，造物主就是我們所說的上帝，所以我們的靈魂需要復甦，只有上帝能幫助我們。耶穌說，因為從人心裏，發出惡念、凶殺、姦淫、偷盜、詭詐、誹謗。英國哲學家羅素沒有宗教信仰，但他認為，「邪惡存在於我們的內心，所以要從我們的內心，將邪惡拔除。」愛因斯坦—有一次我在普林斯頓大學演講，遇到了愛因斯坦。他沒有博士學位，因為他覺得沒人有資格授予他博士學位。 （觀眾笑聲） 愛因斯坦說過，「改變鈽元素的性質比改變人性的邪惡本質要容易。」我相信你們當中許多人都思考過這個問題，並感到困惑。總是有那麼一些人利用先進技術，比如今晚我們在這裡談到的網際網路，去做些不道德的事。有些智商高的傢伙設計出電腦病毒，這類病毒能讓電腦系統全部癱瘓。奧克拉荷馬城爆炸案的兇手，把簡單的技術用於恐怖主義行徑。導致這些問題的原因不是技術本身。而是使用技術的那些人。大衛王說過他知道自己靈魂深處藏著些什麼。他無法擺脫自己的問題和他個人的惡行，包括凶殺和姦淫。然而，大衛王尋求上帝的饒恕，他對上帝說，「你能使我的靈甦醒。」 聖經教導，我們不只有身體和心智，我們還有靈魂。在我們的裡面有些東西，是我們無法理解的。這個部份的我們渴望尋求上帝，或是其他科技無法提供的力量。人的靈魂是人的一部分，我們用靈魂尋求人生的意義，並尋求著某種超越今生的力量。這正是對上帝的渴求。我發現全世界的年輕人都在尋找著什麼。但他們也不知道自己在找什麼。我在許多大學做過演講，演講中有個環節是回答學生的提問，劍橋、哈佛、牛津—這些學校我都去做過演講。大概再過三個月我在哈佛還有次演講—應該是大約兩個月之後去演講。學生們還會問我相同的問題，這些問題以前也問過。這些問題不外乎就是：人來自哪兒？為什麼來？將來去向哪兒？生命的意義是什麼？人活著為了什麼？ 即使你沒有宗教信仰，你有時也會猜測這世上是否有其他力量。愛迪生也說過，「當你明白了科學世界裡的所有現象，明白了宇宙的運行，你就不能否認有位艦長在主導一切。」我記得有一次，我坐在戈巴契夫夫人的旁邊，那是在一次白宮的晚宴上。我請教當時蘇聯駐美大使 Dobrynin — 我和他很熟，我還去過前蘇聯幾次，當時的那些共產黨人士給我的自由度讓我很意外。我和 Dobrynin 先生很熟，所以我對他說，「今晚我會坐在戈巴契夫夫人旁邊。我該和她談些什麼話題呢？」他的回答讓我驚訝。他對我說，「和她談談宗教和哲學。這是她真正感興趣的話題。」我聽了有點兒驚訝，不過那天晚上我們還真談論了這個話題，那是一次令人印象深刻的談話，談話結束後戈巴契夫夫人對我說，「我是個無神論者，但我相信這世上存在著某種力量，高過我們的存在。」 第二個讓大衛王束手無策的問題，就是人世間的苦難。約伯 (Job) — 最古老書卷的作者，曾說過，「人生在世必遇患難，如同火星 (火花) 飛騰。」當然，科學技術已經減少了人類遭受的痛苦。以我為例—再過幾個月我就80歲了。我的確很感謝先進的醫學讓我的身體狀況還算健康，這麼多年都還好。我的醫生建議我不要折騰到這麼遠的地方—來參加這個論壇。我已經有差不多四個月沒出去演講了。如果你們也像我有那麼多演講要做，一天要做三四個演講，你們也會累病的。所以我站在這兒講話要借助這個講台和這些提示。每次你們在電視讓或其他場合聽我講話，都是即席演講。我從來不照著稿子讀。無論是多長時間的講話我都即席而做。但是今晚我準備了一些提示是因為我有了忘詞兒的現象，現在有時會出現這狀況，所以準備了一些提示。 即使在我們國家，最—這個世界上最先進的社會，仍然有窮人，仍然有破碎的家庭，仍然有朋友間的背叛。無法忍受的心理壓力讓我們不堪重負。我從沒遇到一個人是完全沒有任何心理問題，或任何憂慮的。我們為什麼遭受痛苦？這是一個古老的問題，可是我們還沒找到答案。然而大衛王一再的說到他要向上帝求助。他說，「耶和華是我的牧者。」最後一個困擾大衛王的問題是死亡。許多評論家指出 ""死亡""在我們這個世代成了禁忌的話題。很多人活得好像他們永遠不會死。科技讓人以為我們能控制死亡。我們在螢幕上看到瑪麗蓮夢露還是那麼美，和她活著時一樣美，還有許多年輕人以為她還活著。他們不知道她已經死了。這樣的例子還有像克拉克蓋博，等等。那些已故的明星還活在螢幕上。而且他們在螢幕上和本人看起來一樣光鮮。但死亡是不可避免的。 不久前我參加了一次國會會議，就在去年。會議的地點是雕塑大廳—大約有300人參加了會議。我對他們說，「這裡所有的人都有一個共同點，不論是共和黨議員還是民主黨議員，不論是誰，有一天都會死。」所有人都免不了一死，正如那些已經故去的偉人，他們正在牆上看著我們。這對於年輕人來說很難理解。他們很難理解有一天他們也會死亡。在古老的《傳道書》中，作者寫道，「天下萬務都有定時。生有時，死有時。」我為一些人做過臨終禱告，其中許多名人，你們可能都知道。在他們臨終前，我和他們做了最後的對話。我看到他們很痛苦的狀態，在那一刻他們都很懼怕死亡的到來。 然而，就在死亡到來的幾年之前，他們卻根本沒想到過死亡這件事。幾天前我和一位女士進行過一次談話，她的父親是位知名的醫生。她說她父親從沒想到過上帝，從不談論上帝，不相信上帝的存在。因為他是個無神論者。但是，在他臨終前，有一天他在床上坐起來，問護士是否能讓他見見牧師。他說他有生以來第一次想到了這不可避免的結局，想到了上帝。上帝存在嗎？幾年前，有個大學生問我，「你這一生中最讓你感到驚奇的是什麼？」我回答說，最讓我驚奇的是生命的短暫。生命的逝去太快了。但人生不一定要這樣過。Werner von Braun (德裔美籍火箭科學家)在總結二次大戰的後果時曾說：「科學和宗教不是對立的。相反，二者是互相依靠的，像姐妹一樣。」他以自己為例。我和 von Braun 博士很熟。他這樣說過，「我個人認為，宇宙的偉大之處在於她證明了造物主的確存在。」他還說過，「在我們尋求認識上帝的過程中，我相信耶穌基督的生命，必須成為我們努力和獲得啟發的焦點所在。耶穌基督的生命和他復活的事實，是人類的希望。」 我做過很多演講，在德國，在法國，在很多國家—我有榮幸在105個國家做過演講。有一次我應邀去拜訪德國前總理 Adenauer,他被視為當代德國的創建者，重建戰後的德國。他對我說，「年輕人，你相信耶穌基督的復活嗎？」我回答他，「我相信。」他說，「我也相信。」他又說，「等我卸任後，我要寫本書，解釋耶穌基督為什麼復活，以及為什麼相信基督復活如此重要。」俄國作家索忍尼辛在一部劇作中描寫了一個將死之人，死前對守在他床邊的人說，「何時感到後悔才可怕呢—就是將死之時。」人要怎樣活才能不在臨終時感到後悔呢？ 帕斯卡 (Blaise Pascal, 法國數學家、物理學家、哲學家）曾問過這個問題，那是在17世紀的法國。帕斯卡被喻為現代文明的建築師。他是個卓越的科學家，在數學方面很有成就，在青少年時期就已經展露頭角。他被很多人視為“概率論”的奠基人，他也是第一台電腦模型的發明者。你們一定都很熟悉以他的名字命名的電腦語言。帕斯卡深刻思考了人類的困擾—邪惡，痛苦，死亡。他震驚地發現一個現象，一個我們仍在思考的問題：人類能在科學、藝術、社會發展等方面，取得輝煌的成就，但人類也滿懷憤怒、虛偽、以及自我怨恨。帕斯卡把人類稱為奇怪的混合體— 天賦和自我欺騙並存的混合體。在 1654 年11 月 23 日，帕斯卡經歷了一次深刻的宗教體驗。他在日記中這樣寫道：「我把自己全然地交託給我的救贖者耶穌基督。」 一位法國歷史學家，在兩百年之後說，「很少能有如此偉大的知識份子，如此謙卑地順服於耶穌基督的權柄之下。」帕斯卡不僅相信上帝的愛和恩典能讓我們重歸和諧，而且他也相信他的罪過和錯誤能被上帝寬恕，並且在他死後能夠進入天堂。他所體驗到的超越了科學研究的範疇。帕斯卡有句名言，「人心的奧秘是無法用科學解釋的。」 同樣有名的還有帕斯卡的那篇文章《打賭》。大概是這樣說的：「如果你賭上帝存在，並向仁愛的上帝敞開你的內心，即使你賭輸了你也不會失去什麼。但是如果你賭上帝不存在，那麼如果你輸了，你的今生和來生就都沒有好結果了。」對帕斯卡而言，科學知識的價值遠不及對上帝的認識。對他來說，對上帝的認識勝過任何他曾經思索過的事物。他做好準備去面見上帝在他39歲去世的時候。大衛王一直活到70歲—在他那個時代已經算長壽了。但他也得面對死亡，他這樣寫道：「我雖然行過死蔭的幽谷，也不怕遭害，因為你與我同在。」 這就是大衛王對這三個問題的答案，那三個問題就是：邪惡、痛苦和死亡。你也能悟到這個答案，只要你去尋求永生的上帝，讓上帝充滿你的生命，並給你對未來的盼望。我17歲的時候，住在家裡，北卡羅來納州的一個農場。每天早上我都要去擠牛奶，晚上也要擠牛奶，在我放學回家後，一共有20頭牛由我負責照管，我一邊在農場工作，一邊還要努力跟上學業。高中時我學習成績不好。我上大學時成績也不好，直到我的內心有了某種改變。 有一天，我面對面見到了基督。他說，「我是道路、真理、生命。」你能相信他所說的嗎？—「我是真理所在。是一切真理的化身。」也許他在騙人。也許他瘋了。也許他真是他所稱的那個人。他到底是哪一個呢？我必須做個選擇。我證明不了他所說的。我無法將他所說的話拿到實驗室用實驗去證明。但憑著信心，我相信他所說的，因此他進入了我的心靈並且改變了我的人生。現在我已做好準備，等我聽到上帝的召喚，就可以去他那裡了。謝謝各位，願上帝賜福大家。 （觀眾掌聲） 謝謝你讓我有這個榮幸，這太棒了。 Richard Wurman (主持人)：「你應得的。」謝謝。 （觀眾掌聲）"
