Talk	en	zh-tw
bill_stone_explores_the_earth_and_space	"First place I'd like to take you is what many believe will be the world's deepest natural abyss. And I say believe because this process is still ongoing. Right now there are major expeditions being planned for next year that I'll talk a little bit about. One of the things that's changed here, in the last 150 years since Jules Verne had great science-fiction concepts of what the underworld was like, is that technology has enabled us to go to these places that were previously completely unknown and speculated about. We can now descend thousands of meters into the Earth with relative impunity. Along the way we've discovered fantastic abysses and chambers so large that you can see for hundreds of meters without a break in the line of sight. When you go on a thing like this, we can usually be in the field for anywhere from two to four months, with a team as small as 20 or 30, to as big as 150. And a lot of people ask me, you know, what kind of people do you get for a project like this? While our selection process is not as rigorous as NASA, it's nonetheless thorough. We're looking for competence, discipline, endurance, and strength. In case you're wondering, this is our strength test. (Laughter) But we also value esprit de corps and the ability to diplomatically resolve inter-personal conflict while under great stress in remote locations. We have already gone far beyond the limits of human endurance. From the entrance, this is nothing like a commercial cave. You're looking at Camp Two in a place called J2, not K2, but J2. We're roughly two days from the entrance at that point. And it's kind of like a high altitude mountaineering trip in reverse, except that you're now running a string of these things down. The idea is to try to provide some measure of physical comfort while you're down there, otherwise in damp, moist, cold conditions in utterly dark places. I should mention that everything you're seeing here, by the way, is artificially illuminated at great effort. Otherwise it is completely dark in these places. The deeper you go, the more you run into a conflict with water. It's basically like a tree collecting water coming down. And eventually you get to places where it is formidable and dangerous and unfortunately slides just don't do justice. So I've got a very brief clip here that was taken in the late 1980s. So descend into Huautla Plateau in Mexico. (Video) Now I have to tell you that the techniques being shown here are obsolete and dangerous. We would not do this today unless we were doing it for film. (Laughter) Along that same line, I have to tell you that with the spate of Hollywood movies that came out last year, we have never seen monsters underground — at least the kind that eat you. If there is a monster underground, it is the crushing psychological remoteness that begins to hit every member of the team once you cross about three days inbound from the nearest entrance. Next year I'll be leading an international team to J2. We're going to be shooting from minus 2,600 meters — that's a little over 8,600 feet down — at 30 kilometers from the entrance. The lead crews will be underground for pushing 30 days straight. I don't think there's been a mission like that in a long time. Eventually, if you keep going down in these things, probability says that you're going to run into a place like this. It's a place where there's a fold in the geologic stratum that collects water and fills to the roof. And when you used to find these things, they would put a label on a map that said terminal siphon. Now I remember that term really well for two reasons. Number one, it's the name of my rock band, and second, is because the confrontation of these things forced me to become an inventor. And we've since gone on to develop many generations of gadgets for exploring places like this. This is some life-support equipment closed-cycle. And you can use that now to go for many kilometers horizontally underwater and to depths of 200 meters straight down underwater. When you do this kind of stuff it's like doing EVA. It's like doing extra-vehicular activity in space, but at much greater distances, and at much greater physical peril. So it makes you think about how to design your equipment for long range, away from a safe haven. Here's a clip from a National Geographic movie that came out in 1999. (Video) Narrator: Exploration is a physical process of putting your foot in places where humans have never stepped before. This is where the last little nugget of totally unknown territory remains on this planet. To experience it is a privilege. Bill Stone: That was taken in Wakulla Springs, Florida. Couple of things to note about that movie. Every piece of equipment that you saw in there did not exist before 1999. It was developed within a two-year period and used on actual exploratory projects. This gadget you see right here was called the digital wall mapper, and it produced the first three-dimensional map anybody has ever done of a cave, and it happened to be underwater in Wakulla Springs. It was that gadget that serendipitously opened a door to another unexplored world. This is Europa. Carolyn Porco mentioned another one called Enceladus the other day. This is one of the places where planetary scientists believe there is a highest probability of the detection of the first life off earth in the ocean that exists below there. For those who have never seen this story, Jim Cameron produced a really wonderful IMAX movie couple of years ago, called ""Aliens of the Deep."" There was a brief clip — (Video) Narrator: A mission to explore under the ice of Europa would be the ultimate robotic challenge. Europa is so far away that even at the speed of light, it would take more than an hour for the command just to reach the vehicle. It has to be smart enough to avoid terrain hazards and to find a good landing site on the ice. Now we have to get through the ice. You need a melt probe. It's basically a nuclear-heated torpedo. The ice could be anywhere from three to 16 miles deep. Week after week, the melt probe will sink of its own weight through the ancient ice, until finally — Now, what are you going to do when you reach the surface of that ocean? You need an AUV, an autonomous underwater vehicle. It needs to be one smart puppy, able to navigate and make decisions on its own in an alien ocean. BS: What Jim didn't know when he released that movie was that six months earlier NASA had funded a team I assembled to develop a prototype for the Europa AUV. I mean, I cut through three years of engineering meetings, design and system integration, and introduced DEPTHX — Deep Phreatic Thermal Explorer. And as the movie says, this is one smart puppy. It's got 96 sensors, 36 onboard computers, 100,000 lines of behavioral autonomy code, packs more than 10 kilos of TNT in electrical onboard equivalent. This is the target site, the world's deepest hydrothermal spring at Cenote Zacaton in northern Mexico. It's been explored to a depth of 292 meters and beyond that nobody knows anything. This is part of DEPTHX's mission. There are two primary targets we're doing here. One is, how do you do science autonomy underground? How do you take a robot and turn it into a field microbiologist? There are more stages involved here than I've got time to tell you about, but basically we drive through the space, we populate it with environmental variables — sulphide, halide, things like that. We calculate gradient surfaces, and drive the bot over to a wall where there's a high probability of life. We move along the wall, in what's called proximity operations, looking for changes in color. If we see something that looks interesting, we pull it into a microscope. If it passes the microscopic test, we go for a collection. We either draw in a liquid sample, or we can actually take a solid core from the wall. No hands at the wheel. This is all behavioral autonomy here that's being conducted by the robot on its own. The real hat trick for this vehicle, though, is a disruptive new navigation system we've developed, known as 3D SLAM, for simultaneous localization and mapping. DEPTHX is an all-seeing eyeball. Its sensor beams look both forward and backward at the same time, allowing it to do new exploration while it's still achieving geometric sensor-lock on what it's gone through already. What I'm going to show you next is the first fully autonomous robotic exploration underground that's ever been done. This May, we're going to go from minus 1,000 meters in Zacaton, and if we're very lucky, DEPTHX will bring back the first robotically-discovered division of bacteria. The next step after that is to test it in Antartica and then, if the funding continues and NASA has the resolution to go, we could potentially launch by 2016, and by 2019 we may have the first evidence of life off this planet. What then of manned space exploration? The government recently announced plans to return to the moon by 2024. The successful conclusion of that mission will result in infrequent visitation of the moon by a small number of government scientists and pilots. It will leave us no further along in the general expansion of humanity into space than we were 50 years ago. Something fundamental has to change if we are to see common access to space in our lifetime. What I'm going to show you next are a couple of controversial ideas. And I hope you'll bear with me and have some faith that there's credibility behind what we're going to say here. There are three underpinnings of working in space privately. One of them is the requirement for economical earth-to-space transport. The Bert Rutans and Richard Bransons of this world have got this in their sights and I salute them. Go, go, go. The next thing we need are places to stay on orbit. Orbital hotels to start with, but workshops for the rest of us later on. The final missing piece, the real paradigm-buster, is this: a gas station on orbit. It's not going to look like that. If it existed, it would change all future spacecraft design and space mission planning. Now, to give you a chance to understand why there is power in that statement, I've got to give you the basics of Space 101. And the first thing is everything you do in space you pay by the kilogram. Anybody drink one of these here this week? You'd pay 10,000 dollars for that in orbit. That's more than you pay for TED, if Google dropped their sponsorship. (Laughter) The second is more than 90 percent of the weight of a vehicle is in propellant. Thus, every time you'd want to do anything in space, you are literally blowing away enormous sums of money every time you hit the accelerator. Not even the guys at Tesla can fight that physics. So, what if you could get your gas at a 10th the price? There is a place where you can. In fact, you can get it better — you can get it at 14 times lower if you can find propellant on the moon. There is a little-known mission that was launched by the Pentagon, 13 years ago now, called Clementine. And the most amazing thing that came out of that mission was a strong hydrogen signature at Shackleton crater on the south pole of the moon. That signal was so strong, it could only have been produced by 10 trillion tons of water buried in the sediment, collected over millions and billions of years by the impact of asteroids and comet material. If we're going to get that, and make that gas station possible, we have to figure out ways to move large volumes of payload through space. We can't do that right now. The way you normally build a system right now is you have a tube stack that has to be launched from the ground, and resist all kinds of aerodynamic forces. We have to beat that. We can do it because in space there are no aerodynamics. We can go and use inflatable systems for almost everything. This is an idea that, again, came out of Livermore back in 1989, with Dr. Lowell Wood's group. And we can extend that now to just about everything. Bob Bigelow currently has a test article in the orbit. We can go much further. We can build space tugs, orbiting platforms for holding cryogens and water. There's another thing. When you're coming back from the moon, you have to deal with orbital mechanics. It says you're moving 10,000 feet per second faster than you really want to be to get back to your gas station. You got two choices. You can burn rocket fuel to get there, or you can do something really incredible. You can dive into the stratosphere, and precisely dissipate that velocity, and come back out to the space station. It has never been done. It's risky and it's going to be one hell of a ride — better than Disney. The traditional approach to space exploration has been that you carry all the fuel you need to get everybody back in case of an emergency. If you try to do that for the moon, you're going to burn a billion dollars in fuel alone sending a crew out there. But if you send a mining team there, without the return propellant, first — (Laughter) Did any of you guys hear the story of Cortez? This is not like that. I'm much more like Scotty. I like this equipment, you know, and I really value it so we're not going to burn the gear. But, if you were truly bold you could get it there, manufacture it, and it would be the most dramatic demonstration that you could do something worthwhile off this planet that has ever been done. There's a myth that you can't do anything in space for less than a trillion dollars and 20 years. That's not true. In seven years, we could pull off an industrial mission to Shackleton and demonstrate that you could provide commercial reality out of this in low-earth orbit. We're living in one of the most exciting times in history. We're at a magical confluence where private wealth and imagination are driving the demand for access to space. The orbital refueling stations I've just described could create an entirely new industry and provide the final key for opening space to the general exploration. To bust the paradigm a radically different approach is needed. We can do it by jump-starting with an industrial Lewis and Clark expedition to Shackleton crater, to mine the moon for resources, and demonstrate they can form the basis for a profitable business on orbit. Talk about space always seems to be hung on ambiguities of purpose and timing. I would like to close here by putting a stake in the sand at TED. I intend to lead that expedition. (Applause) It can be done in seven years with the right backing. Those who join me in making it happen will become a part of history and join other bold individuals from time past who, had they been here today, would have heartily approved. There was once a time when people did bold things to open the frontier. We have collectively forgotten that lesson. Now we're at a time when boldness is required to move forward. 100 years after Sir Ernest Shackleton wrote these words, I intend to plant an industrial flag on the moon and complete the final piece that will open the space frontier, in our time, for all of us. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要帶大家去的第一個地方很多人相信是世界最深的天然地穴。之所以說“相信”是因為這還是一個不斷發展探索的過程。目前我正為下一年籌畫幾次重要的考察，後面我會談到。 在這個領域發生的一個變化就是，過去的150年裏，自從儒勒•凡爾納提出了關於地底世界的偉大科幻理念以來，科技已經能夠使我們到達這些地方，這些地方以前完全無法瞭解而只能靠估測。現在我們能夠下到地下幾千米的地方，而且毫髮無傷。一路以來我們已經發現了很多了不起的地穴和巨大的洞窟，這些洞窟大到連綿數百米，中間看不到任何阻斷。當去考察這類地方時，我們常常在荒郊野外天涯海角的一呆就是2到4個月，團隊人數小到二三十人，大到150個人。 好多人都問我，你需要找些什麽樣的人完成這樣的探險計畫？雖然我們選人的過程沒有NASA那麽嚴格，但是也是非常全面的。我們要求有專業能力、守紀律、耐力強，有力量。如果你好奇的話，可以看看我們的力量測試。（觀衆笑聲）但是我們也很重視團隊精神以及得體地解決人際衝突的能力。尤其是在野外面對巨大壓力的情況下。 我們早已遠遠超過了人類忍耐力的極限。從入口看，這就像個適合商業旅遊的洞穴。你現在看到的是位于J2地點的2號營地，不是K2，而是J2。從這點到洞口大約有兩天的路程。這就像反方向的高海拔登山，除了你是吊在這些繩索上向下墜。關鍵在於當人在下面時能獲得某程度的舒適感，否則當我們在那裡時，就只有潮濕，沉悶，寒冷，一片漆黑。另外我還應該提一下，你們現在看到的所有東西，都是費了九牛二虎之力人工照明的結果。否則在這些地方就是漆黑一團。 下得越深，遇到的水的問題就越嚴重。基本上就像一棵樹向下收集水分。然後慢慢你就到達一些非常可怕和危險的地方，不幸的是，這些幻燈並不能把這些都展現出來。這裡有一個很短的短片，拍攝於20世紀80年代。這裏所深入的是墨西哥的瓦烏特拉高原。（視頻）現在我必須要告訴你們，這裡所看到的技術都是過時而且危險的。我們今天是不會這樣做的，除非我們是在拍電影。（觀衆笑聲） 還有，我必須要告訴大家，像去年好萊塢拍的那堆電影裏出現的怪物我們在地底從來沒見過。至少沒見過會吃人的那種。如果地底真有怪物的話，那就是心理上的極度疏離開始衝擊到每個隊員，一旦你離開最近的入口大約三天的路程後。 明年我將帶領一個國際小隊前往J2。我們將從地下2600米的深處開始拍攝——也就是地下8600英尺多深的地方——距離洞口30公里。先遣隊員將在地下連續停留30天。我想已經有很長時間沒有這樣的考察活動了。 如果你不斷進入這類地方，最終你會有機會碰見這樣的地方。這個地方是地質岩層上的一個褶皺，匯集了大量的水，直沒到頂。以前當發現這种地方時，他們會在地圖上標識出來，寫上：末端虹吸管。我之所以能清楚地記得這個詞有兩個原因。第一，這是我的搖滾樂隊的名字，第二，因爲踫到這種地形，迫使我成爲一個發明家。迄今爲止，我們已經發展出很多代的小機械，用以探索這類地方。 這是某种閉合的維生裝備——使用它可以讓你在水下方圓幾公里及水下200米的深度活動。干這個就好像EVA，就是太空中的艙外活動，但活動的距離更長，所冒的生命危險更大。所以這會令你思考如何設計裝備使人能夠離開安全艙更遠。 這是國際地理電影的片斷，拍攝於1999年。 （視頻講解）：探險是一個實實在在的歷程，踏足在人類從未到達的地方。這是這個星球上僅剩的最後一小片完全不為人知的地方。探索它是一種特權。 這個拍攝於佛羅里達的瓦庫拉泉。這個電影裏有這麽幾件事要注意：這裡你所看到的每一件裝備是1999年以後才有的。它們是在兩年内設計並使用於實際的探險活動。你看到的這裡這個小機器叫數字繪圖儀——它繪製出有史以來的第一張地洞的三維地圖，正好就是在瓦庫拉泉的水下。正是這個小東西偶然地打開了通往一個全然陌生世界的大門。 這是木衛二。Carolyn Porco 之前提到過土衛二。行星天文學家認為最有可能探測到地球之外初級生命的地方之一，就是木衛二的海洋。爲了那些從未親眼目睹這一切的人們Jim Cameron在兩年前製作了一個非常棒的IMAX電影叫“深海異形”。這是一個片段—— （視頻）解說：探索木衛二冰下世界的任務將是對機器人的終極挑戰。木衛二非常遙遠，即便用光速也要花上一個小時才能使指令到達飛行器。必須非常靈敏才能避開危險地帶在冰面上找到一個良好的著陸點。現在我們必須穿過冰層。你需要一個可以融化冰層的探頭。基本上就是一個核熱能的魚雷。任何一個地方的冰層就可能厚達3到16英里。一個星期接著一個星期，融化探頭靠著自重下沉穿透古老的冰層，直至最終……現在，當你到達海洋表面時，你該怎麼辦？你需要一個AUV，自動水下作業車它要像一條機靈的小狗，能夠四處探索，而且能在外星海洋裡獨立作業。 吉姆這部電影上映時，他并不知道就在六個月前，NASA已經為我組建的一個小組撥款，研發用於木衛二的自動水下作業車的原型機。就是說，我跳過三年的工程會議，設計和系統集成的過程，直接給大家介紹DEPTHX——深水熱能勘探機。正如電影所說的，這是一個機靈的小狗。它有96個傳感器，36個機載運算器，十萬條行為自控代碼，裝備的電能當量超過10公斤TNT。 這就是目的地，世界上最深的溫泉，位於墨西哥北部的薩卡通石灰岩洞。迄今已探索到292米的深度，再往下是怎樣的尚無人知。這也是DEPTHX的一部份任務。 這裡我們有兩個主要目標。一個是當深入地下時，如何實現自主的科學研究？如何能派出一個機器人并把它變成一個野外微生物學家？這中間包含了很多步驟但我沒有時間一一盡述，但是基本上，我們駕駛機器人去各種地方，讓它適應不同的環境變數——硫化物，鹵化物之類的東西。我們計算斜坡表面，然後駕駛機器人爬上一面峭壁，在那裡很可能找到生命。我們沿著峭壁移動，也就是所謂的近距離操控，尋找顏色上的變化。如果我們發現一些有趣的東西，就把它拖到顯微鏡下面。如果它通過了顯微測試，我們就進行採集。或是抽取一些液體樣品，或者我們從石壁上採集一個實體的岩芯樣品。無須全程地人手操作。全是機器人的自主行為。由機器人自己獨立完成。 但是這部機器真正厲害的地方在於我們開發的一種顛覆性的最新巡航系統，叫作3D SLAM，用於同時定位和繪圖。DEPTHX是一個全視角的眼球。它的感應光線可以同時向前和向後看，使它可以一邊進行新的探索，同時可以將幾何感應器鎖定在它已經通過的地方。 下面我給大家看的是首次全自主機器人的地下探索，這是史無前例的。今年5月，我們將從薩卡通地下1000米的地方開始，如果夠幸運，DEPTHX將帶回第一個由機器人發現的細菌種類。下一步就是要在南極進行測試，然後如果仍有撥款，而且NASA下定決心，我們極有可能於2016年發射，到2019年，就可能獲得第一個存在地外生命的證據。 那麼載人的空間探索呢？政府最近宣佈計畫於2024年重返 月球。這一任務的勝利完成就是少數政府科學家和宇航員偶爾探訪月球。它對於人類探索宇宙空間的貢獻與50年前沒什麽不同。必須有更為根本的變革，才能讓我們在有生之年看到對宇宙的更普遍的接觸。 下面將給大家看一些極富爭議的觀點。希望你們耐心聽下去，並且相信我們這裡所說的都是有可信度的。私人進行宇宙探索事業有三大支柱。其一是需要地球—宇宙之間經濟節約的交通。在這方面，Bert Rutans 和Richard Bransons已經看到了這點，我向他們致敬，加油！加油！ 其次我們需要可以在軌道上停留的地方。從軌道酒店開始，之後才輪到我們的工作站。最後一個環節，真正扭轉乾坤的是軌道加油站。當然不會是這樣的。如果這能成為現實，它將改變未來所有航天器的設計，以及太空探索計畫。 現在，爲了讓你們有機會理解這個前景的魅力何在，我要給你們上一堂太空基礎理論。你要知道的第一件事就是，在太空中做任何事都要按千克計算費用。這星期有人喝過這東西么？在軌道上，你想喝瓶水要花一萬美元。這比你付給TED的還要多，如果GOOGLE停止他們的贊助的話。（笑聲）第二，一個航天器超過90%的重量都在於推進燃料。因此，任何時候你想在太空中干點什麽的話，你的的確確是在大把大把地燒錢，只要你按一下加速器。即便是Telsa(極品電動跑車)的傢伙們也貴不過這條物理定律。 因此，如果你能夠只用十分之一的價格就能獲得燃料呢？有個地方能讓你如願以償。事實上，更便宜——只需十四分之一的價格。如果你能在月球上找到燃料。有一個鮮為人知的任務，早在13年前五角大樓就開始啟動了，叫作橘子計畫。這項任務最令人驚異的發現就是在夏克頓環形山發現了氫的強烈跡象，就在月球的南極。這個信號非常明顯，唯一的可能就是有十萬億噸的水，經過億萬年的積攢，埋藏在沉積物中，主要來自小行星和彗星物質的撞擊。 如果我們想要得到這些水，并使加油站就成為可能，我們就必須設法可以在太空中移動大量的貨物。現在還無法做到。目前通常的做法是用一組管裝燃料，必須從地面發射上去，要對抗各種空氣阻力。我們必須克服這個問題。我們能夠做到因為在太空中沒有空氣阻力。我們可以在幾乎所有的東西上都使用充氣系統。這個點子是1989年，Livermore（美國國家航天實驗室）Lowell Wood博士的小組提出的。而現在，我們能把這個方法應用到幾乎所有東西上。Bob Bigelow 目前正在軌道上進行一項實驗。我們能走得更遠。我們可以製造太空拖船，軌道平臺，用以存放冷凍劑和水。還有一件事，當你要從月亮上返回時，你必須對抗軌道力學。也就是說，你要比你真正想要的速度每秒快一萬英尺，才能返回你的加油站。 你可以有兩種選擇。你可以耗費火箭燃料到達那裡，或者，你可以做一件非常不可思議的事，你可以沖入平流層，然後剛剛好使俯衝速度抵銷，然後返回到空間站。這個方法還沒實現過。它很冒險，它將會是一段驚險的旅程——不過好過迪斯尼。傳統的太空探索方式是你要帶上你返程所需要的全部燃料，包括任何不備之需。如果你要前往 月球，光是把所有人員送到那裡就已經燒掉十億美元。但是如果你派一個採礦隊過去，先不帶任何返程燃料，（笑聲）誰聽過Cortez的故事？（美國科羅拉多州山區一偏遠小鎮，謠傳有UFO，結果是臺灣U2偵查機燃油耗光迫降）這和那個不同。我可是個小氣鬼。我喜歡這個飛行器，要知道，我真的很寶貝它。所以我們不想把它燒壞。但是，如果你真的夠膽量，你能在那裡獲得燃料，生產燃料，那將是最戲劇性的場面，證明你做到了在地球以外最有價值的事，這是前所未有的。有一個神話，號稱在太空中很難有所成就，除非有一萬億美元和20年的時間。這不是真的。只要7年，我們就能完成前往夏克頓的工業計畫，并證明從此可以在近地軌道上具備商業活動的條件。 我們正處在人類歷史上最激動人心的時代之一。我們正處一個神奇的交匯點，在這裡個人財富和想像力正推動向太空進發的渴求。我所描述的軌道加油站能夠創造一個全新的產業，并提供最後一把鑰匙打開通往外空間進行更廣泛探索的大門。要破舊立新，就需要一個極為不同的進路。我們可以從發起一次產業探險開始，就是前往夏克頓環形山的Lewis 與 Clark 遠征（1804年–1806年，美國國內首次橫越大陸西抵太平洋沿岸的往返考察活動）。開採月球上的資源，并證明，這可以成為在軌道上開展有豐厚回報的商業活動的基礎。 一說到太空，似乎老是讓人覺得從目標到時間安排都存在諸多變數，懸而未決。今天我想在TED這裡定下一個期限，我願意發起這次遠征。（掌聲）如果一切順利，可以在7年內完成。和我一起完成這次探險的人將和從前那些勇敢的先驅們一起被載入史冊，如果他們今天也在這裡，肯定也會打心底裡贊成。 歷史上曾有過這樣的時代，人們敢於冒險開創新的未知領域。我們卻把這一課集體遺忘了，我們現在所處的時代，正是需要大膽前進的時代。在夏克頓爵士（英國南極探險家）寫下這句話的一百年以後，我打算將一面工業旗幟插上月球，以完成這最後一步，在我們這個時代，為我們所有的人打開通往太空前沿的大門。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
