Talk	en	zh-tw
bill_strickland_makes_change_with_a_slide_show	"It's a great honor to be here with you. The good news is I'm very aware of my responsibilities to get you out of here because I'm the only thing standing between you and the bar. (Laughter) And the good news is I don't have a prepared speech, but I have a box of slides. I have some pictures that represent my life and what I do for a living. I've learned through experience that people remember pictures long after they've forgotten words, and so I hope you'll remember some of the pictures I'm going to share with you for just a few minutes. The whole story really starts with me as a high school kid in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in a tough neighborhood that everybody gave up on for dead. And on a Wednesday afternoon, I was walking down the corridor of my high school kind of minding my own business. And there was this artist teaching, who made a great big old ceramic vessel, and I happened to be looking in the door of the art room — and if you've ever seen clay done, it's magic — and I'd never seen anything like that before in my life. So, I walked in the art room and I said, ""What is that?"" And he said, ""Ceramics. And who are you?"" And I said, ""I'm Bill Strickland. I want you to teach me that."" And he said, ""Well, get your homeroom teacher to sign a piece of paper that says you can come here, and I'll teach it to you."" And so for the remaining two years of my high school, I cut all my classes. (Laughter) But I had the presence of mind to give the teachers' classes that I cut the pottery that I made, (Laughter) and they gave me passing grades. And that's how I got out of high school. And Mr. Ross said, ""You're too smart to die and I don't want it on my conscience, so I'm leaving this school and I'm taking you with me."" And he drove me out to the University of Pittsburgh where I filled out a college application and got in on probation. Well, I'm now a trustee of the university, and at my installation ceremony I said, ""I'm the guy who came from the neighborhood who got into the place on probation. Don't give up on the poor kids, because you never know what's going to happen to those children in life."" What I'm going to show you for a couple of minutes is a facility that I built in the toughest neighborhood in Pittsburgh with the highest crime rate. One is called Bidwell Training Center; it is a vocational school for ex-steel workers and single parents and welfare mothers. You remember we used to make steel in Pittsburgh? Well, we don't make any steel anymore, and the people who used to make the steel are having a very tough time of it. And I rebuild them and give them new life. Manchester Craftsmen's Guild is named after my neighborhood. I was adopted by the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese during the riots, and he donated a row house. And in that row house I started Manchester Craftsmen's Guild, and I learned very quickly that wherever there are Episcopalians, there's money in very close proximity. (Laughter) And the Bishop adopted me as his kid. And last year I spoke at his memorial service and wished him well in this life. I went out and hired a student of Frank Lloyd Wright, the architect, and I asked him to build me a world class center in the worst neighborhood in Pittsburgh. And my building was a scale model for the Pittsburgh airport. And when you come to Pittsburgh — and you're all invited — you'll be flying into the blown-up version of my building. That's the building. Built in a tough neighborhood where people have been given up for dead. My view is that if you want to involve yourself in the life of people who have been given up on, you have to look like the solution and not the problem. As you can see, it has a fountain in the courtyard. And the reason it has a fountain in the courtyard is I wanted one and I had the checkbook, so I bought one and put it there. (Laughter) And now that I'm giving speeches at conferences like TED, I got put on the board of the Carnegie Museum. At a reception in their courtyard, I noticed that they had a fountain because they think that the people who go to the museum deserve a fountain. Well, I think that welfare mothers and at-risk kids and ex-steel workers deserve a fountain in their life. And so the first thing that you see in my center in the springtime is water that greets you — water is life and water of human possibility — and it sets an attitude and expectation about how you feel about people before you ever give them a speech. So, from that fountain I built this building. As you can see, it has world class art, and it's all my taste because I raised all the money. (Laughter) I said to my boy, ""When you raise the money, we'll put your taste on the wall."" That we have quilts and clay and calligraphy and everywhere your eye turns, there's something beautiful looking back at you, that's deliberate. That's intentional. In my view, it is this kind of world that can redeem the soul of poor people. We also created a boardroom, and I hired a Japanese cabinetmaker from Kyoto, Japan, and commissioned him to do 60 pieces of furniture for our building. We have since spun him off into his own business. He's making a ton of money doing custom furniture for rich people. And I got 60 pieces out of it for my school because I felt that welfare moms and ex-steel workers and single parents deserved to come to a school where there was handcrafted furniture that greeted them every day. Because it sets a tone and an attitude about how you feel about people long before you give them the speech. We even have flowers in the hallway, and they're not plastic. Those are real and they're in my building every day. And now that I've given lots of speeches, we had a bunch of high school principals come and see me, and they said, ""Mr. Strickland, what an extraordinary story and what a great school. And we were particularly touched by the flowers and we were curious as to how the flowers got there."" I said, ""Well, I got in my car and I went out to the greenhouse and I bought them and I brought them back and I put them there."" You don't need a task force or a study group to buy flowers for your kids. What you need to know is that the children and the adults deserve flowers in their life. The cost is incidental but the gesture is huge. And so in my building, which is full of sunlight and full of flowers, we believe in hope and human possibilities. That happens to be at Christmas time. And so the next thing you'll see is a million dollar kitchen that was built by the Heinz company — you've heard of them? They did all right in the ketchup business. And I happen to know that company pretty well because John Heinz, who was our U.S. senator — who was tragically killed in a plane accident — he had heard about my desire to build a new building, because I had a cardboard box and I put it in a garbage bag and I walking all over Pittsburgh trying to raise money for this site. And he called me into his office — which is the equivalent of going to see the Wizard of Oz (Laughter) — and John Heinz had 600 million dollars, and at the time I had about 60 cents. And he said, ""But we've heard about you. We've heard about your work with the kids and the ex-steel workers, and we're inclined to want to support your desire to build a new building. And you could do us a great service if you would add a culinary program to your program."" Because back then, we were building a trades program. He said, ""That way we could fulfill our affirmative action goals for the Heinz company."" I said, ""Senator, I'm reluctant to go into a field that I don't know much about, but I promise you that if you'll support my school, I'll get it built and in a couple of years, I'll come back and weigh out that program that you desire."" And Senator Heinz sat very quietly and he said, ""Well, what would your reaction be if I said I'd give you a million dollars?"" I said, ""Senator, it appears that we're going into the food training business."" (Laughter) And John Heinz did give me a million bucks. And most importantly, he loaned me the head of research for the Heinz company. And we kind of borrowed the curriculum from the Culinary Institute of America, which in their mind is kind of the Harvard of cooking schools, and we created a gourmet cooks program for welfare mothers in this million dollar kitchen in the middle of the inner city. And we've never looked back. I would like to show you now some of the food that these welfare mothers do in this million dollar kitchen. That happens to be our cafeteria line. That's puff pastry day. Why? Because the students made puff pastry and that's what the school ate every day. But the concept was that I wanted to take the stigma out of food. That good food's not for rich people — good food's for everybody on the planet, and there's no excuse why we all can't be eating it. So at my school, we subsidize a gourmet lunch program for welfare mothers in the middle of the inner city because we've discovered that it's good for their stomachs, but it's better for their heads. Because I wanted to let them know every day of their life that they have value at this place I call my center. We have students who sit together, black kids and white kids, and what we've discovered is you can solve the race problem by creating a world class environment, because people will have a tendency to show you world class behavior if you treat them in that way. These are examples of the food that welfare mothers are doing after six months in the training program. No sophistication, no class, no dignity, no history. What we've discovered is the only thing wrong with poor people is they don't have any money, which happens to be a curable condition. It's all in the way that you think about people that often determines their behavior. That was done by a student after seven months in the program, done by a very brilliant young woman who was taught by our pastry chef. I've actually eaten seven of those baskets and they're very good. (Laughter) They have no calories. That's our dining room. It looks like your average high school cafeteria in your average town in America. But this is my view of how students ought to be treated, particularly once they have been pushed aside. We train pharmaceutical technicians for the pharmacy industry, we train medical technicians for the medical industry, and we train chemical technicians for companies like Bayer and Calgon Carbon and Fisher Scientific and Exxon. And I will guarantee you that if you come to my center in Pittsburgh — and you're all invited — you'll see welfare mothers doing analytical chemistry with logarithmic calculators 10 months from enrolling in the program. There is absolutely no reason why poor people can't learn world class technology. What we've discovered is you have to give them flowers and sunlight and food and expectations and Herbie's music, and you can cure a spiritual cancer every time. We train corporate travel agents for the travel industry. We even teach people how to read. The kid with the red stripe was in the program two years ago — he's now an instructor. And I have children with high school diplomas that they can't read. And so you must ask yourself the question: how is it possible in the 21st century that we graduate children from schools who can't read the diplomas that they have in their hands? The reason is that the system gets reimbursed for the kids they spit out the other end, not the children who read. I can take these children and in 20 weeks, demonstrated aptitude; I can get them high school equivalent. No big deal. That's our library with more handcrafted furniture. And this is the arts program I started in 1968. Remember I'm the black kid from the '60s who got his life saved with ceramics. Well, I went out and decided to reproduce my experience with other kids in the neighborhood, the theory being if you get kids flowers and you give them food and you give them sunshine and enthusiasm, you can bring them right back to life. I have 400 kids from the Pittsburgh public school system that come to me every day of the week for arts education. And these are children who are flunking out of public school. And last year I put 88 percent of those kids in college and I've averaged over 80 percent for 15 years. We've made a fascinating discovery: there's nothing wrong with the kids that affection and sunshine and food and enthusiasm and Herbie's music can't cure. For that I won a big old plaque — Man of the Year in Education. I beat out all the Ph.D.'s because I figured that if you treat children like human beings, it increases the likelihood they're going to behave that way. And why we can't institute that policy in every school and in every city and every town remains a mystery to me. Let me show you what these people do. We have ceramics and photography and computer imaging. And these are all kids with no artistic ability, no talent, no imagination. And we bring in the world's greatest artists — Gordon Parks has been there, Chester Higgins has been there — and what we've learned is that the children will become like the people who teach them. In fact, I brought in a mosaic artist from the Vatican, an African-American woman who had studied the old Vatican mosaic techniques, and let me show you what they did with the work. These were children who the whole world had given up on, who were flunking out of public school, and that's what they're capable of doing with affection and sunlight and food and good music and confidence. We teach photography. And these are examples of some of the kids' work. That boy won a four-year scholarship on the strength of that photograph. This is our gallery. We have a world class gallery because we believe that poor kids need a world class gallery, so I designed this thing. We have smoked salmon at the art openings, we have a formal printed invitation, and I even have figured out a way to get their parents to come. I couldn't buy a parent 15 years ago so I hired a guy who got off on the Jesus big time. He was dragging guys out of bars and saving those lives for the Lord. And I said, ""Bill, I want to hire you, man. You have to tone down the Jesus stuff a little bit, but keep the enthusiasm. (Laughter) (Applause) I can't get these parents to come to the school."" He said, ""I'll get them to come to the school."" So, he jumped in the van, he went to Miss Jones' house and said, ""Miss Jones, I knew you wanted to come to your kid's art opening but you probably didn't have a ride. So, I came to give you a ride."" And he got 10 parents and then 20 parents. At the last show that we did, 200 parents showed up and we didn't pick up one parent. Because now it's become socially not acceptable not to show up to support your children at the Manchester Craftsmen's Guild because people think you're bad parents. And there is no statistical difference between the white parents and the black parents. Mothers will go where their children are being celebrated, every time, every town, every city. I wanted you to see this gallery because it's as good as it gets. And by the time I cut these kids loose from high school, they've got four shows on their resume before they apply to college because it's all up here. You have to change the way that people see themselves before you can change their behavior. And it's worked out pretty good up to this day. I even stuck another room on the building, which I'd like to show you. This is brand new. We just got this slide done in time for the TED Conference. I gave this little slide show at a place called the Silicon Valley and I did all right. And the woman came out of the audience, she said, ""That was a great story and I was very impressed with your presentation. My only criticism is your computers are getting a little bit old."" And I said, ""Well, what do you do for a living?"" She said, ""Well, I work for a company called Hewlett-Packard."" And I said, ""You're in the computer business, is that right?"" She said, ""Yes, sir."" And I said, ""Well, there's an easy solution to that problem."" Well, I'm very pleased to announce to you that HP and a furniture company called Steelcase have adopted us as a demonstration model for all of their technology and all their furniture for the United States of America. And that's the room that's initiating the relationship. We got it just done in time to show you, so it's kind of the world debut of our digital imaging center. (Applause) (Music) I only have a couple more slides, and this is where the story gets kind of interesting. So, I just want you to listen up for a couple more minutes and you'll understand why he's there and I'm here. In 1986, I had the presence of mind to stick a music hall on the north end of the building while I was building it. And a guy named Dizzy Gillespie showed up to play there because he knew this man over here, Marty Ashby. And I stood on that stage with Dizzy Gillespie on sound check on a Wednesday afternoon, and I said, ""Dizzy, why would you come to a black-run center in the middle of an industrial park with a high crime rate that doesn't even have a reputation in music?"" He said, ""Because I heard you built the center and I didn't believe that you did it, and I wanted to see for myself. And now that I have, I want to give you a gift."" I said, ""You're the gift."" He said, ""No, sir. You're the gift. And I'm going to allow you to record the concert and I'm going to give you the music, and if you ever choose to sell it, you must sign an agreement that says the money will come back and support the school."" And I recorded Dizzy. And he died a year later, but not before telling a fellow named McCoy Tyner what we were doing. And he showed up and said, ""Dizzy talking about you all over the country, man, and I want to help you."" And then a guy named Wynton Marsalis showed up. Then a bass player named Ray Brown, and a fellow named Stanley Turrentine, and a piano player named Herbie Hancock, and a band called the Count Basie Orchestra, and a fellow named Tito Puente, and a guy named Gary Burton, and Shirley Horn, and Betty Carter, and Dakota Staton and Nancy Wilson all have come to this center in the middle of an industrial park to sold out audiences in the middle of the inner city. And I'm very pleased to tell you that, with their permission, I have now accumulated 600 recordings of the greatest artists in the world, including Joe Williams, who died, but not before his last recording was done at my school. And Joe Williams came up to me and he put his hand on my shoulder and he said, ""God's picked you, man, to do this work. And I want my music to be with you."" And that worked out all right. When the Basie band came, the band got so excited about the school they voted to give me the rights to the music. And I recorded it and we won something called a Grammy. And like a fool, I didn't go to the ceremony because I didn't think we were going to win. Well, we did win, and our name was literally in lights over Madison Square Garden. Then the U.N. Jazz Orchestra dropped by and we recorded them and got nominated for a second Grammy back to back. So, we've become one of the hot, young jazz recording studios in the United States of America (Laughter) in the middle of the inner city with a high crime rate. That's the place all filled up with Republicans. (Laughter) (Applause) If you'd have dropped a bomb on that room, you'd have wiped out all the money in Pennsylvania because it was all sitting there. Including my mother and father, who lived long enough to see their kid build that building. And there's Dizzy, just like I told you. He was there. And he was there, Tito Puente. And Pat Metheny and Jim Hall were there and they recorded with us. And that was our first recording studio, which was the broom closet. We put the mops in the hallway and re-engineered the thing and that's where we recorded the first Grammy. And this is our new facility, which is all video technology. And that is a room that was built for a woman named Nancy Wilson, who recorded that album at our school last Christmas. And any of you who happened to have been watching Oprah Winfrey on Christmas Day, he was there and Nancy was there singing excerpts from this album, the rights to which she donated to our school. And I can now tell you with absolute certainty that an appearance on Oprah Winfrey will sell 10,000 CDs. (Laughter) We are currently number four on the Billboard Charts, right behind Tony Bennett. And I think we're going to be fine. This was burned out during the riots — this is next to my building — and so I had another cardboard box built and I walked back out in the streets again. And that's the building, and that's the model, and on the right's a high-tech greenhouse and in the middle's the medical technology building. And I'm very pleased to tell you that the building's done. It's also full of anchor tenants at 20 dollars a foot — triple that in the middle of the inner city. And there's the fountain. (Laughter) Every building has a fountain. And the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center are anchor tenants and they took half the building, and we now train medical technicians through all their system. And Mellon Bank's a tenant. And I love them because they pay the rent on time. (Laughter) And as a result of the association, I'm now a director of the Mellon Financial Corporation that bought Dreyfus. And this is in the process of being built as we speak. Multiply that picture times four and you will see the greenhouse that's going to open in October this year because we're going to grow those flowers in the middle of the inner city. And we're going to have high school kids growing Phalaenopsis orchids in the middle of the inner city. And we have a handshake with one of the large retail grocers to sell our orchids in all 240 stores in six states. And our partners are Zuma Canyon Orchids of Malibu, California, who are Hispanic. So, the Hispanics and the black folks have formed a partnership to grow high technology orchids in the middle of the inner city. And I told my United States senator that there was a very high probability that if he could find some funding for this, we would become a left-hand column in the Wall Street Journal, to which he readily agreed. And we got the funding and we open in the fall. And you ought to come and see it — it's going to be a hell of a story. And this is what I want to do when I grow up. (Laughter) The brown building is the one you guys have been looking at and I'll tell you where I made my big mistake. I had a chance to buy this whole industrial park — which is less than 1,000 feet from the riverfront — for four million dollars and I didn't do it. And I built the first building, and guess what happened? I appreciated the real estate values beyond everybody's expectations and the owners of the park turned me down for eight million dollars last year, and said, ""Mr. Strickland, you ought to get the Civic Leader of the Year Award because you've appreciated our property values beyond our wildest expectations. Thank you very much for that."" The moral of the story is you must be prepared to act on your dreams, just in case they do come true. And finally, there's this picture. This is in a place called San Francisco. And the reason this picture's in here is I did this slide show a couple years ago at a big economics summit, and there was a fellow in the audience who came up to me. He said, ""Man, that's a great story. I want one of those."" I said, ""Well, I'm very flattered. What do you do for a living?"" He says, ""I run the city of San Francisco. My name's Willie Brown."" And so I kind of accepted the flattery and the praise and put it out of my mind. And that weekend, I was going back home and Herbie Hancock was playing our center that night — first time I'd met him. And he walked in and he says, ""What is this?"" And I said, ""Herbie, this is my concept of a training center for poor people."" And he said, ""As God as my witness, I've had a center like this in my mind for 25 years and you've built it. And now I really want to build one."" I said, ""Well, where would you build this thing?"" He said, ""San Francisco."" I said, ""Any chance you know Willie Brown?"" (Laughter) As a matter of fact he did know Willie Brown, and Willie Brown and Herbie and I had dinner four years ago, and we started drawing out that center on the tablecloth. And Willie Brown said, ""As sure as I'm the mayor of San Francisco, I'm going to build this thing as a legacy to the poor people of this city."" And he got me five acres of land on San Francisco Bay and we got an architect and we got a general contractor and we got Herbie on the board, and our friends from HP, and our friends from Steelcase, and our friends from Cisco, and our friends from Wells Fargo and Genentech. And along the way, I met this real short guy at my slide show in the Silicon Valley. He came up to me afterwards, he said, ""Man, that's a fabulous story. I want to help you."" And I said, ""Well, thank you very much for that. What do you do for a living?"" He said, ""Well, I built a company called eBay."" I said, ""Well, that's very nice. Thanks very much, and give me your card and sometime we'll talk."" I didn't know eBay from that jar of water sitting on that piano, but I had the presence of mind to go back and talk to one of the techie kids at my center. I said, ""Hey man, what is eBay?"" He said, ""Well, that's the electronic commerce network."" I said, ""Well, I met the guy who built the thing and he left me his card."" So, I called him up on the phone and I said, ""Mr. Skoll, I've come to have a much deeper appreciation of who you are (Laughter) and I'd like to become your friend."" (Laughter) And Jeff and I did become friends, and he's organized a team of people and we're going to build this center. And I went down into the neighborhood called Bayview-Hunters Point, and I said, ""The mayor sent me down here to work with you and I want to build a center with you, but I'm not going to build you anything if you don't want it. And all I've got is a box of slides."" And so I stood up in front of 200 very angry, very disappointed people on a summer night, and the air conditioner had broken and it was 100 degrees outside, and I started showing these pictures. And after about 10 pictures they all settled down. And I ran the story and I said, ""What do you think?"" And in the back of the room, a woman stood up and she said, ""In 35 years of living in this God forsaken place, you're the only person that's come down here and treated us with dignity. I'm going with you, man."" And she turned that audience around on a pin. And I promised these people that I was going to build this thing, and we're going to build it all right. And I think we can get in the ground this year as the first replication of the center in Pittsburgh. But I met a guy named Quincy Jones along the way and I showed him the box of slides. And Quincy said, ""I want to help you, man. Let's do one in L.A."" And so he's assembled a group of people. And I've fallen in love with him, as I have with Herbie and with his music. And Quincy said, ""Where did the idea for centers like this come from?"" And I said, ""It came from your music, man. Because Mr. Ross used to bring in your albums when I was 16 years old in the pottery class, when the world was all dark, and your music got me to the sunlight."" And I said, ""If I can follow that music, I'll get out into the sunlight and I'll be OK. And if that's not true, how did I get here?"" I want you all to know that I think the world is a place that's worth living. I believe in you. I believe in your hopes and your dreams, I believe in your intelligence and I believe in your enthusiasm. And I'm tired of living like this, going into town after town with people standing around on corners with holes where eyes used to be, their spirits damaged. We won't make it as a country unless we can turn this thing around. In Pennsylvania it costs 60,000 dollars to keep people in jail, most of whom look like me. It's 40,000 dollars to build the University of Pittsburgh Medical School. It's 20,000 dollars cheaper to build a medical school than to keep people in jail. Do the math — it will never work. I am banking on you and I'm banking on guys like Herbie and Quincy and Hackett and Richard and very decent people who still believe in something. And I want to do this in my lifetime, in every city and in every town. And I don't think I'm crazy. I think we can get home on this thing and I think we can build these all over the country for less money than we're spending on prisons. And I believe we can turn this whole story around to one of celebration and one of hope. In my business it's very difficult work. You're always fighting upstream like a salmon — never enough money, too much need — and so there is a tendency to have an occupational depression that accompanies my work. And so I've figured out, over time, the solution to the depression: you make a friend in every town and you'll never be lonely. And my hope is that I've made a few here tonight. And thanks for listening to what I had to say. (Applause)"	"很榮幸和大家相聚，好消息是：我知道我的責任，是儘快讓大家離開這個演講廳，因為我剛好卡在大家和吧台的中間。(笑聲)好消息是，我沒有講稿，但我有一盒幻燈片，裡面有一些照片，代表我的生命和我的工作。經驗告訴我，照片比文字更容易讓人長久記憶，所以希望你們會記得我今天和你們分享的照片。 故事發生在我還是個賓州匹茲堡的高中生時，我住在一個被大家當做死城遺棄的糟糕社區裡。在一個星期三的下午，我走在學校的走廊上，正想著自己的事，當時有個老師正在教藝術課，他做了一個很大、很棒的陶瓷瓶子。我剛好從藝術教室的門外看見了它，如果你見過陶藝品的製作過程，你會驚嘆於其神奇之處，我這輩子從沒看過那樣的東西。所以我走進藝術教室，問：""那是什麼?""他說：""這是陶瓷 —- 你又是誰?""我說：""我是比爾.史崔克蘭，我要你教我做那種東西。""他說：""請你的導師簽一份文件，上面寫同意你來我這裡，我就教你。""所以，接下來的兩年高中生涯，我蹺了所有的課程。(笑聲)但我還是有良心的，我把我的陶藝作品，送給那些我蹺過課的老師們，(笑聲)然後他們就讓我及格。我高中是這樣畢業的。 羅斯先生說：""你這麼聰明，死掉太可惜，我也不想讓自己良心不安，我現在要離開學校，我要把你也一道帶走。""他載著我到匹茲堡大學，讓我填了入學申請，成為試讀生。現在我是這所學校的董事，在我的就職典禮上，我說:""我從小就住在這附近，以試讀的方式進入這個學校。請不要放棄窮孩子，因為你永遠不知道，這些孩子從此會有多大的改變。"" 我接下來要給大家看的，是我在匹茲堡這附近最糟糕的社區裡，所蓋的建築物，這個社區的犯罪率是全匹茲堡最高的。這叫做必德維爾訓練中心，是個職業學校，專為失業的鋼鐵業工人、單親媽媽和接受福利救濟的社福媽媽蓋的。你記得以前匹茲堡煉鋼嗎?我們現在已經不煉鋼了，那些以前在煉鋼廠工作的人，現在經濟狀況很糟。我幫助他們改行，給他們新的生活。 而曼徹斯特工匠協會則是以我住的社區命名的，我是在暴亂期間被聖公會的主教領養的孩子，他捐出了一排房子，我在那裡成立了曼徹斯特工匠協會。我很快就學到，只要有聖公會在的地方，那附近就會有錢。(笑聲)主教領養我成為他的孩子，去年，我在他的追悼會上發言，祝他安息。我請名建築師法蘭克洛伊.萊特的學生，要他為我在匹茲堡最糟的社區裡，蓋一個世界級的中心。我的這棟建築是匹茲堡機場的縮小版，當你來到匹茲堡時 —在座的各位都會受邀—你們會飛進這棟建築物的放大版。這就是這棟建築物，我把它蓋在一個被當成死城一樣遺棄的糟糕社區裡。 我的看法是，如果你要投身於一群被放棄的人的生命中時，你要讓自己看起來有能力解決問題，而不是製造問題。你們看，在前院有個噴水池，之所以有個噴水池在這裡，是因為我要噴水池，我有支票本，所以我買了噴水池放在這裡。(笑聲)由於我應邀在像TED這樣的地方演講，我也成為卡內基藝術博物館的董事，在他們院子裡的接待處，我發現他們有個噴水池，因為他們認為走進藝術館的人，配得上一個噴水池，而我也認為這些社福媽媽和處於危險環境的孩子們、還有以前的煉鋼廠工人，也配得上一個噴水池。所以，在春天的時候，你到我的中心來看見的第一件東西，就是迎接你的噴泉 — 泉水是生命，也是人的機會，讓你在演講之前，為你對待這些人的方式，設下一種態度與期望。在這噴水池之後，我蓋了這座建築物， 你看，裡面收藏了世界級的藝術品，都是我選的，因為是我募到的錢。(笑聲)我對我的孩子說：""當你募到錢的時候，我們就會把你喜歡的藝術品，掛在牆上。""我們有拼布、陶藝和書法，不論你的眼睛轉到哪裡，都會有個美麗的東西回眼看你。這是故意的，這樣做是有意的。在我看來，就是在這樣的環境裡，窮人的靈魂才能得到救贖。 我們也蓋了一間董事會議室，我從日本京都，請來一位傢俱製造師父，請他為我們的建築製作60件傢俱，自此之後，他得以自立門戶，開始替有錢人製作專屬傢俱，也賺了不少錢。我們學校也拿到60件傢俱，因為我認為，社福媽媽和失業的煉鋼廠工人以及單親父母，都值得來到一個有手工傢俱的學校學習，因為早在你說教之前，它們已經設下了一個基調和態度，表示你是怎樣對待別人的。 我們甚至在走廊上放鮮花，不是塑膠花，這些都是真花，每天都在這棟建築裡放置鮮花。因為我到處演講，有一群高中校長來找我，他們說：""史崔克蘭先生，你的故事很特別，學校也很棒!尤其是這些鮮花，特別令人感動，我們想知道這些是花怎麼來的?""我說，""嗯，我上車，開車到花坊買花，載回來，然後就放在那裡。""你不需要任務編組或研究小組，來為孩子們買花，你只需要知道孩子和大人，都配得上鮮花。這成本很低，但是意義非凡。所以在我的建築裡，到處都是陽光、鮮花，我們相信希望和人有無限的潛能，這是在聖誕節的時候拍的。 接下來看到的是百萬美元打造的廚房，這是漢斯公司建的—聽過這家公司嗎?他們靠做蕃茄醬賺了大錢，我剛好和這家公司很熟，老闆約翰.漢斯是以前的參議員，他後來很不幸地死於一場飛機失事。他聽說我要蓋一個新建築，那時我用垃圾袋包著一個硬紙板捐款箱，在匹茲堡各地募款，來蓋這棟建築物，他把我找去他的辦公室，這真的就像進入「綠野仙蹤」裡一樣，(笑聲)約翰.漢斯那時身價有六億美元，我當時只有六毛錢，他說：""我們聽說過你的故事，就是你為孩子和解雇的煉鋼廠工人所做的事，我們有意支持你蓋一棟新的建築，你也可以幫我們一個大忙，就是把烹飪課加進你們的課程裡""—那時候，我們正在開設一個貿易課程，他說，""這樣我們就可以達成漢斯公司的行動目標。""我說：""參議員，我不想進入自己不熟悉的領域，但我向你保證，如果你支持我的學校，我就一定會建成，然後過幾年，我會再回來研究你想開的課程。""漢斯參議員靜靜地坐著，說：""嗯，如果我跟你說，我要給你一百萬，你怎麼說?""我說：""參議員，那我們就要進入烹飪訓練事業了!""(笑聲)漢斯參議員真的給了我一百萬，而且最重要的是，他把漢斯公司的首席研究員也借給我了。美國烹飪研究院就像是烹飪界的哈佛大學，因此我們借用了他們的課程計畫，在這貧民區的百萬廚房裡，為社福媽媽們開設了美食烹飪課程，從此蒸蒸日上。 我給你們看看，這些社福媽媽在這百萬廚房裡，做出來的作品。這是我們的自助餐，那天我們吃千層酥。為什麼?因為學員做千層酥，學校裡就吃千層酥。我的想法是，我要改變人們對食物的印象，好食物不是富人專屬的，好食物是給每個人吃的。沒有任何理由不能讓所有的人享用。所以在我們的學校裡，我們提供午餐美食津貼給住在貧民區裡的社福媽媽，因為我們發現這對他們身體好，對他們的思想更好。因為我要讓他們知道，他們在這個中心的每一天，都很有價值。 這裡的白人孩子和黑人孩子坐在一起，我們發現，藉著創造一個世界級的環境，便可以解決種族問題。因為如果你以世界級的尊榮來尊重他們，他們就會展現出世界級的風度。這些是上過六個月的課程之後幾個社福媽媽的作品，不做作、無等級之分、沒有尊嚴問題、沒有包袱，我們發現，窮人唯一的問題是他們沒錢，但錢的問題很好解決，反而是你對他們的態度，常會決定他們的行為。那是一個受過七個月訓練的學員做的，她是一個很聰明的年輕女性，由我們的糕點主廚指導教學。我吃過七個這樣的籃子，都很好吃，(笑聲)而且都不含卡洛里。這是我們的餐廳，就像在美國的一般城市裡普通高中的餐廳。這是我心目中應該對待學生的方式，尤其是因為他們曾經被社會排擠。 我們為製藥產業培訓藥劑技師，我們為醫療業訓練醫療技師，我們訓練化學技工給像拜耳、卡爾鋼碳素公司、飛世爾科技和埃克森美孚這些公司，我向你們保證，只要你來到我的匹茲堡中心—歡迎你們都來看看—你們會發現社福媽媽在用對數計算器做分析化學，報名後十個月之內就可以學會。沒有任何理由，可以阻止窮人學習世界級的技術。我們發現，如果你給他們鮮花、陽光、食物、期待和赫比的爵士音樂，你絕對可以治好心靈上的癌症。 我們為旅遊業訓練商務旅行代辦，我們甚至還教人識字。穿紅色條紋衣的小孩，兩年前是這裡的學生，他現在是老師。這裡有人高中畢業，但是不識字，所以你會問自己—現在都已經21世紀了，從我們的學校畢業的學生，怎麼會還有人連自己手上的畢業證書都看不懂?原因是政府是根據畢業的人數給予各學校補助款，而不是根據識字的人數。這些孩子可以來我的學校，只要能在20週之內，證明自己有資質，就可以獲得高中同等學力文憑。這沒什麼了不起。這是我們的圖書館，裡頭有更多的手工傢俱。這是我在1968年開始進行的藝術計畫， 我自己是在60年代，被陶藝拯救的黑人小孩，所以當我決定複製我自己的經驗時，我想讓周圍的其他小孩都能享有同樣的機會，我的理論就是：如果你給他們鮮花、食物，你給他們陽光和企圖心，你就可以把他們導回正途。我這裡有400位來自匹茲堡公立學校的學生，他們每天來這裡學習藝術，這些人是被公立學校退學的學生。去年，我讓 88% 的孩子進了大學，而在過去15年之內，這個平均值是80%。我們有個很棒的發現—孩子本身沒有問題，也沒有治不好的孩子，只要我們給他們愛、陽光、食物、熱情和赫比的音樂。因此，我得到一個大獎牌—年度教育風雲人物，我打敗所有博士，因為我認為，如果你把孩子當成一個正常人來對待，他們就愈有可能表現得像一個正常人。但我還是不瞭解，為什麼我們不能把這個方法用在每個鄉鎮城市的每個學校裡? 我給各位看看這些人的作品，我們有陶藝、攝影和電腦影像處理作品，他們都是沒有藝術天份的孩子，缺乏想像力，但是我們請了世界上最偉大的藝術家，包括名攝影師戈登派克、雀斯特席更斯都來這裡教過，我們從而瞭解到，孩子會學習，成為像老師一樣的人。我從梵蒂岡請回一位馬賽克藝術家，她是一位非裔美國女性，她學過傳統梵帝岡的馬賽克技術，我給你看看他們的作品。他們是被這個世界放棄的孩子，甚至連公立學校都待不下，但只要給他們愛、陽光、食物、美好的音樂和自信心，他們就有能力做出這些作品。 我們也教攝影，這些是部分孩子的作品，這個男孩，因為作品表現出的力量，而拿到四年的獎學金。這是我們的藝廊，我們有個世界級的藝廊，因為我們相信，窮孩子需要一個世界級的藝廊，所以我就設計了這個地方。在開幕的時候，我們提供煙燻鮭魚給來賓享用，我們印發正式邀請函，我甚至找到方法，讓孩子的家長來看展覽：15年前，我沒錢收買家長，所以我僱了一個對傳教很熱衷的人，他把大家從酒吧裡拉出來，為上帝拯救生命。我說：""比爾，我要僱用你，你不要太強調耶穌，但是要保持救人的熱忱，(笑聲)我需要把那些家長弄來學校。""他說：""我會想辦法讓他們來的。""然後他跳上車，開到瓊斯小姐家門口。對她說：""瓊斯小姐，我知道你很想參加妳小孩的藝術展覽開幕，但可能沒有人載妳過去，所以，我來載妳過去。""他帶來10位家長，之後20位家長。上一次展覽，有200位家長到場，而且，我們沒有載任何一位家長過來，因為現在，如果家長不出現在曼徹斯特工匠協會，支持自己的孩子，他們會被大家排斥，因為大家會認為你不是好父母。在白人父母和黑人父母之間，也沒有什麼差別，母親會去看孩子的重要典禮，每一次、每個鄉鎮、每個城市都是這樣。我要給你們看這藝廊，因為它盡善盡美。在這些孩子高中畢業、申請大學之前，已經有四次展覽的紀錄，這些紀錄都寫在他們的履歷裡。 在改變別人的行為之前，你必須先改變他們看待自己的方式，這方法一直很管用。我甚至又弄了一個房間，給你們看，這是全新的。我們趕在這場TED研討會之前，把幻燈片做好。我在一個叫矽谷的地方，做了一場幻燈片介紹，我講得還不錯。有位女士從觀眾席中走出來，她說：""這故事真棒，我很喜歡你的演講，唯一美中不足的是，你們的電腦太舊了。""我說：""你是做什麼的呢?""她說：""我在一家叫惠普的公司上班。""我說：""妳們是電腦業的，對嗎？""她說:""是啊。""我說：""這個問題很好解決。""嗯，我很高興向各位宣佈：HP惠普電腦和辦公傢俱名牌Steelcase，已經把這裡當成全美國的展示中心，讓我們展示他們所有的技術與產品，就是那個房間。這房間是彼此關係的開始，我們趕工完成，好展現給你們看，這是我們「數位影像中心」的首次公開亮相。(掌聲)(音樂) 我還有幾張幻燈片要給你們看，現在故事越來越有趣了，請你們再注意聽幾分鐘，你們就會知道為何他在那裡，我站在這裡了。1986年，當我正在蓋這棟建築物時，就想在北邊蓋一個音樂廳。後來有個叫做迪吉．葛拉斯彼的傢伙，去那裡演奏。因為他認識這裡的一個人，叫做馬堤．艾斯比。某個星期三的下午，我在臺上和迪吉．葛拉斯彼一起試音效。我問他:""迪吉，你為什麼會來一個黑人的音樂廳演奏？這裡犯罪率這麼高，又是個工業城，而且這裡的音樂也沒有什麼名氣。""他說：”因為我聽說你蓋了一個中心，但是我不相信，我要親眼看見。既然我真的看見了，我要送你一個禮物。”我說：”你就是那個禮物”他說：”不，你才是那個禮物。我授權你把這場音樂會錄下來，並且把這專輯送給你。如果你決定拿去銷售，你得先簽一個合約，註明所有收入，都要回饋到這學校來。”我錄下迪吉的音樂，他一年以後就去世了。在他去世之前，他告訴了麥考伊．泰納我們所做的事情，泰納來這裡跟我們說：“迪吉在全國各地替你們宣傳呢!我也要幫你。”之後，溫頓．馬沙利斯出現了，然後又來了個貝斯手雷．布朗，還有個傢伙叫做史坦利．圖倫汀，還有鋼琴手赫比．漢考克，還有一個樂團康特．貝西大樂團，又來了狄托．龐特，以及蓋瑞．伯頓、雪麗．荷恩、貝蒂．卡特，還有達科達．斯達頓樂團和南西．威爾森，他們都來這個工業區內的貧民區音樂廳演出過，場場爆滿。我很高興的告訴你們，在他們的同意之下，世界最棒的音樂家們，讓我們錄製了600張專輯，包括已故的喬威．廉斯，他在我的學校錄製了他的最後一張專輯。喬威．廉斯來的時候，把手放在我的肩膀上，說：”上帝選中了你，讓你做這樣的工作，我要讓我的音樂與你同在。”我們合作得很好。 貝西樂團來的時候，整個團都很瘋這學校，他們投票決定把演出的版權給我，我就錄製了他們的音樂，然後我們贏得了一個叫做葛萊美的獎。我像個呆瓜一樣，不知道該去參加頒獎典禮，因為我以為我們不會得獎。但是，我們真的得獎了，我們的名字被燈光打在麥迪森花園上空。然後爵士聯盟樂團來訪，我們也為他們錄音，然後在隔年第二次得到葛萊美獎的提名。結果，我們變成了美國一個熱門、年輕的爵士樂錄音工作室—（笑聲）就在這個犯罪率極高的貧民區裡。 這張照片是音樂廳裡坐滿了共和黨的人,（笑聲）（掌聲）如果當時有人在那房間裡丟一顆炸彈，那麼全賓州的錢就都會被炸光，因為，那天所有的錢都坐在這裡呢！我的父母也在其中，他們活得夠久，才能看到他們的孩子，蓋了這棟建築。那是迪吉，我剛才說過，他去過那裡。那是狄托龐特，那是派特．麥席尼和吉姆．霍爾，他們和我們一起錄音。那是我們的第一個錄音間，原本是放掃帚的櫃子。我們把抹布之類的東西，移到走廊上，重整了這個房間，我們就是在這裡，錄製了第一張葛萊美獎專輯。 這是我們的新錄音間，全部使用視訊技術。這個是我們為南西．威爾森特製的房間，她在去年聖誕節，來我們的學校錄製專輯。如果你們當中，有人在耶誕節看了歐普拉秀，就知道，他在場，南西也在場演唱了這張專輯的歌曲片段，她把專輯的版權，捐給學校。我現在可以向你們打包票，上一次歐普拉秀，可以賣掉一萬張這張專輯。（笑聲）我們現在是在全美音樂排行榜上，排名第四，僅次於東尼．班尼特。我想我們沒問題的。 這棟建築在暴亂裡被燒毀 – 就在我的學校旁邊。所以，我又做了個硬紙板捐款箱，再次走上街頭募款。這就是那個新學校，這是個模型，在它的右邊，有一個高科技的溫室，中間是醫學科技大樓。我很高興跟你們說，這棟樓已經蓋好了。在這棟建築裡，住的全是重量級的房客，租金是一平方尺20美元，是貧民區房租的三倍。這張是噴泉的照片。（笑聲）每一棟建築都有一個噴泉。匹茲堡大學醫療中心是這裡的重量級房客，他們租了一半的空間。我們現在就是透過他們的系統，培訓醫療技術人員。梅隆銀行也是房客，我喜歡他們，因為他們會按時交房租。（笑聲）由於這層關係，我現在是梅隆金融公司的董事，他們買了卓佛製藥公司。 這個目前正在修建中，把照片中的溫室再擴大四倍，就是今年10月份開幕時的樣子。因為我們要把這些花種在貧民區裡，我們要讓高中生在貧民區裡，學種蝴蝶蘭。我們和一個大型零售商協議，讓他們在6個州的240個商店裡，銷售我們的蘭花。我們的夥伴是西班牙裔，來自加州馬里布的Zuma Canyon蘭園。西班牙裔和黑人結合成夥伴，在貧民區裡種植高技術層次的蘭花。我告訴一個美國參議員，如果他能幫我們找到一些資金援助，我們就能登上華爾街日報的左邊欄位。他也答應了。我們獲得贊助，溫室會在今年秋天開幕。你們一定要來看看—-這又會是個很棒的故事。 這張照片是我長大以後想做的事。（笑聲）那棟咖啡色的大樓，是你們看過的那棟，我得說我犯了一個大錯。我原本有機會買下整個工業區—離河邊還不到300公尺—只賣400萬美元，但是我當時沒有買。我蓋好第一棟樓之後，你們知道怎樣嗎?我讓這裡的地價，漲得超出了所有人的想像，去年我出價800萬美元要買下整個工業區，但是被地主拒絕了，地主說：“史崔克蘭先生，你應該得到年度公民領袖大獎，因為你讓我的地價升值到超出了我們想像的程度，非常感謝你。”這告訴我們，隨時準備好為實踐夢想而行動，因為夢想可能成真。 最後是這張照片，這棟建築位於舊金山，我放這張照片的原因是，幾年前我在一個很大的經濟高峰會上放幻燈片演講時，觀眾裡有個人走出來，他說：“哇！這個故事真的很棒，我也想要建一個像這樣的中心。”我說“謝謝你的稱讚，請問你是做哪一行的？”他說：“我管理舊金山。我叫威利.布朗。”我接受了他的讚賞，就把這事兒拋在腦後了。那個週末，我準備回家，赫比.漢考克晚上要在我們的音樂廳表演 —那是我第一次見到他。他來到中心，說：“這是怎麼回事？”我說：“赫比，我心目中為窮人設立的培訓中心，就是這個樣子的。”他說：""上帝是我的見證，我想要蓋這樣一個培訓中心，想了25年，而你已經建好了。現在我真的想蓋一個。”我說：“那...你要把它蓋在哪裡呢？”他說：“舊金山”我說：“你不會剛好認識威利.布朗吧？”（笑聲）他果真認識威利.布朗。四年前，威利.布朗、赫比和我一起晚餐，我們在桌巾上，畫出那個中心的藍圖。威利．布朗說：“我以舊金山市長的名義保證，我要興建這個學校，送給城市裡的窮人。”他給我舊金山灣附近5英畝的土地，我們找到建築師和總工程承包商，我們請赫比做董事，以及在惠普的朋友，Steelcase傢俱公司的朋友，思科的朋友，以及富國銀行和基因科技的朋友。 我有一次在矽谷演講時，遇到一位個子很矮的人。演講結束後他來找我，他說：“哇！你的故事太精彩了，我想幫你。”我說：“非常感謝你，您是做哪一行的呢？”他說：“我開了一家公司，叫eBAY”我說：“太好了。很感謝你，請給我名片，我們以後可以聊一聊。”我根本搞不清楚eBAY是什麼公司。不過，我把這件事放在心上，回到學校問了一下學校裡懂科技的學生，我說：“喂，eBAY是什麼啊？”他說：“eBAY就是那個電子商務網路公司啊！”我說：“我見過這家公司的創辦人，他給我他的名片。”我打電話給他說：“史考爾先生，現在我對你終於比較有概念了，（笑聲），我願意和你交個朋友。”（笑聲）傑夫和我後來真的成為朋友，他組織好一個團隊，我們就要開始建中心了。 後來我去灣景區獵人角這個地方，我說：“市長派我來和你們一起工作，我要和你們一起，蓋一個訓練中心，但如果你們不想要，也不勉強。我只有一盒幻燈片給你們看。”於是，我站在200位憤怒、失望的人前面，在一個仲夏的晚上，沒有冷氣，戶外溫度是攝氏36度，我開始放幻燈片給他們看。放到第10張照片之後，他們都靜了下來，我說完故事，最後問：“你們覺得怎麼樣？”在房間的後面，一位女士站起來說：“我在這個被上帝遺棄的地方，住了35年，你是唯一來到這裡，而且尊重我們的人。我要跟你做。”她獨力挽轉所有觀眾的意見。我向這些人保證，我們不僅要蓋這棟樓，而且要把它蓋得很好。我想我們今年就要打地基了，這座學校將是第一個仿造匹茲堡的培訓中心。 在這過程中，我遇見昆西瓊斯，給他看了這盒幻燈片。昆西說：“喂！我想幫你，我們在洛杉磯也做一個吧！”然後他也組織了一群人，然後我愛上了他，如同我愛上赫比和他的音樂一樣。昆西說：“你建培訓中心的想法，是從哪來的呢？”我說：“從你的音樂得來的啟發啊！羅斯先生在我16歲，上陶藝課時，會播放你的音樂，當時我的世界還是漆黑一片，你的音樂讓我看到了陽光。”我說：“只要我跟隨著音樂，我就沐浴在陽光下，我就沒事了。要不是那樣，我怎麼可能會有今天?” 我要你們都知道：我認為，這個世界是值得生存的地方。我信任你們，我相信你們的希望、你們的夢想。我相信你們的才智，我相信你們的熱情。我已經厭倦了走過一座又一座的城市，看見人們站在街角，空洞的眼神，心靈受創。若是不扭轉這種狀況，我們怎能算是一個國家呢？在賓州，把人關在監獄裡，每年要花6萬美元，這些人大部分跟我長得很像。但是修完匹茲堡大學醫學院，只要花4萬美元。讀醫學院比把人關進監獄還要便宜2萬美元。算一算就知道，這樣是不對的。我指望你們，我倚靠像赫比、昆西、賀基、理查，和那些還有信仰的好人。我希望此生，在每一個城鎮，都做這個事業，我不覺得我瘋了。我覺得做這件事，可以讓我們找到回家的路，我想我們可以在全國各處花費比蓋監獄更少的錢，來建學校。我相信，我們能改寫故事的結局，改成歡慶和盼望的故事。我的工作挑戰很大—一直要像鮭魚一樣，逆流而上，錢永遠都不夠，太多需求無法滿足。所以容易產生一種職業性的憂鬱。最後，我終於找到了一個避免憂鬱的辦法 —就是在每一個城鎮，交一個朋友，這樣你就永遠不會孤單。希望我今天晚上，也能在這裡交到些朋友。謝謝大家聽我的故事。（掌聲）"
