Talk	en	zh-tw
billy_collins_everyday_moments_caught_in_time	"I'm here to give you your recommended dietary allowance of poetry. And the way I'm going to do that is present to you five animations of five of my poems. And let me just tell you a little bit of how that came about. Because the mixing of those two media is a sort of unnatural or unnecessary act. But when I was United States Poet Laureate — and I love saying that. (Laughter) It's a great way to start sentences. When I was him back then, I was approached by J. Walter Thompson, the ad company, and they were hired sort of by the Sundance Channel. And the idea was to have me record some of my poems and then they would find animators to animate them. And I was initially resistant, because I always think poetry can stand alone by itself. Attempts to put my poems to music have had disastrous results, in all cases. And the poem, if it's written with the ear, already has been set to its own verbal music as it was composed. And surely, if you're reading a poem that mentions a cow, you don't need on the facing page a drawing of a cow. I mean, let's let the reader do a little work. But I relented because it seemed like an interesting possibility, and also I'm like a total cartoon junkie since childhood. I think more influential than Emily Dickinson or Coleridge or Wordsworth on my imagination were Warner Brothers, Merrie Melodies and Loony Tunes cartoons. Bugs Bunny is my muse. And this way poetry could find its way onto television of all places. And I'm pretty much all for poetry in public places — poetry on buses, poetry on subways, on billboards, on cereal boxes. When I was Poet Laureate, there I go again — I can't help it, it's true — (Laughter) I created a poetry channel on Delta Airlines that lasted for a couple of years. So you could tune into poetry as you were flying. And my sense is, it's a good thing to get poetry off the shelves and more into public life. Start a meeting with a poem. That would be an idea you might take with you. When you get a poem on a billboard or on the radio or on a cereal box or whatever, it happens to you so suddenly that you don't have time to deploy your anti-poetry deflector shields that were installed in high school. So let us start with the first one. It's a little poem called ""Budapest,"" and in it I reveal, or pretend to reveal, the secrets of the creative process. (Video) Narration: ""Budapest."" My pen moves along the page like the snout of a strange animal shaped like a human arm and dressed in the sleeve of a loose green sweater. I watch it sniffing the paper ceaselessly, intent as any forager that has nothing on its mind but the grubs and insects that will allow it to live another day. It wants only to be here tomorrow, dressed perhaps in the sleeve of a plaid shirt, nose pressed against the page, writing a few more dutiful lines while I gaze out the window and imagine Budapest or some other city where I have never been. BC: So that makes it seem a little easier. (Applause) Writing is not actually as easy as that for me. But I like to pretend that it comes with ease. One of my students came up after class, an introductory class, and she said, ""You know, poetry is harder than writing,"" which I found both erroneous and profound. (Laughter) So I like to at least pretend it just flows out. A friend of mine has a slogan; he's another poet. He says that, ""If at first you don't succeed, hide all evidence you ever tried."" (Laughter) The next poem is also rather short. Poetry just says a few things in different ways. And I think you could boil this poem down to saying, ""Some days you eat the bear, other days the bear eats you."" And it uses the imagery of dollhouse furniture. (Video) Narration: ""Some Days."" Some days I put the people in their places at the table, bend their legs at the knees, if they come with that feature, and fix them into the tiny wooden chairs. All afternoon they face one another, the man in the brown suit, the woman in the blue dress — perfectly motionless, perfectly behaved. But other days I am the one who is lifted up by the ribs then lowered into the dining room of a dollhouse to sit with the others at the long table. Very funny. But how would you like it if you never knew from one day to the next if you were going to spend it striding around like a vivid god, your shoulders in the clouds, or sitting down there amidst the wallpaper staring straight ahead with your little plastic face? (Applause) BC: There's a horror movie in there somewhere. The next poem is called forgetfulness, and it's really just a kind of poetic essay on the subject of mental slippage. And the poem begins with a certain species of forgetfulness that someone called literary amnesia, in other words, forgetting the things that you have read. (Video) Narration: ""Forgetfulness."" The name of the author is the first to go, followed obediently by the title, the plot, the heartbreaking conclusion, the entire novel, which suddenly becomes one you have never read, never even heard of. It is as if, one by one, the memories you used to harbor decided to retire to the southern hemisphere of the brain to a little fishing village where there are no phones. Long ago, you kissed the names of the nine muses good-bye and you watched the quadratic equation pack its bag. And even now, as you memorize the order of the planets, something else is slipping away, a state flower perhaps, the address of an uncle, the capital of Paraguay. Whatever it is you are struggling to remember, it is not poised on the tip of your tongue, not even lurking in some obscure corner of your spleen. It has floated away down a dark mythological river whose name begins with an L as far as you can recall, well on your own way to oblivion where you will join those who have forgotten even how to swim and how to ride a bicycle. No wonder you rise in the middle of the night to look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war. No wonder the Moon in the window seems to have drifted out of a love poem that you used to know by heart. (Applause) BC: The next poem is called ""The Country"" and it's based on, when I was in college I met a classmate who remains to be a friend of mine. He lived, and still does, in rural Vermont. I lived in New York City. And we would visit each other. And when I would go up to the country, he would teach me things like deer hunting, which meant getting lost with a gun basically — (Laughter) and trout fishing and stuff like that. And then he'd come down to New York City and I'd teach him what I knew, which was largely smoking and drinking. (Laughter) And in that way we traded lore with each other. The poem that's coming up is based on him trying to tell me a little something about a domestic point of etiquette in country living that I had a very hard time, at first, processing. It's called ""The Country."" (Video) Narration: ""The Country."" I wondered about you when you told me never to leave a box of wooden strike-anywhere matches just lying around the house, because the mice might get into them and start a fire. But your face was absolutely straight when you twisted the lid down on the round tin where the matches, you said, are always stowed. Who could sleep that night? Who could whisk away the thought of the one unlikely mouse padding along a cold water pipe behind the floral wallpaper, gripping a single wooden match between the needles of his teeth? Who could not see him rounding a corner, the blue tip scratching against rough-hewn beam, the sudden flare and the creature, for one bright, shining moment, suddenly thrust ahead of his time — now a fire-starter, now a torch-bearer in a forgotten ritual, little brown druid illuminating some ancient night? And who could fail to notice, lit up in the blazing insulation, the tiny looks of wonderment on the faces of his fellow mice — one-time inhabitants of what once was your house in the country? (Applause) BC: Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. And the last poem is called ""The Dead."" I wrote this after a friend's funeral, but not so much about the friend as something the eulogist kept saying, as all eulogists tend to do, which is how happy the deceased would be to look down and see all of us assembled. And that to me was a bad start to the afterlife, having to witness your own funeral and feel gratified. So the little poem is called ""The Dead."" (Video) Narration: ""The Dead."" The dead are always looking down on us, they say. While we are putting on our shoes or making a sandwich, they are looking down through the glass-bottom boats of heaven as they row themselves slowly through eternity. They watch the tops of our heads moving below on Earth. And when we lie down in a field or on a couch, drugged perhaps by the hum of a warm afternoon, they think we are looking back at them, which makes them lift their oars and fall silent and wait like parents for us to close our eyes. (Applause) BC: I'm not sure if other poems will be animated. It took a long time — I mean, it's rather uncommon to have this marriage — a long time to put those two together. But then again, it took us a long time to put the wheel and the suitcase together. (Laughter) I mean, we had the wheel for some time. And schlepping is an ancient and honorable art. (Laughter) I just have time to read a more recent poem to you. If it has a subject, the subject is adolescence. And it's addressed to a certain person. It's called ""To My Favorite 17-Year-Old High School Girl."" ""Do you realize that if you had started building the Parthenon on the day you were born, you would be all done in only one more year? Of course, you couldn't have done that all alone. So never mind; you're fine just being yourself. You're loved for just being you. But did you know that at your age Judy Garland was pulling down 150,000 dollars a picture, Joan of Arc was leading the French army to victory and Blaise Pascal had cleaned up his room — no wait, I mean he had invented the calculator? Of course, there will be time for all that later in your life, after you come out of your room and begin to blossom, or at least pick up all your socks. For some reason I keep remembering that Lady Jane Grey was queen of England when she was only 15. But then she was beheaded, so never mind her as a role model. (Laughter) A few centuries later, when he was your age, Franz Schubert was doing the dishes for his family, but that did not keep him from composing two symphonies, four operas and two complete masses as a youngster. (Laughter) But of course, that was in Austria at the height of Romantic lyricism, not here in the suburbs of Cleveland. (Laughter) Frankly, who cares if Annie Oakley was a crack shot at 15 or if Maria Callas debuted as Tosca at 17? We think you're special just being you — playing with your food and staring into space. (Laughter) By the way, I lied about Schubert doing the dishes, but that doesn't mean he never helped out around the house."" (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Thanks. (Applause)"	"今天我給各位帶來每個人詩的每日建議攝取量我要做的是將五首我的創作用動畫的方式呈現給各位先讓我告訴大家這個想法是怎麼來的因為要將這兩個媒體素材結合起來其實是有點不自然又多此一舉 但是在我還是美國桂冠詩人的時候...我真喜歡這樣說(笑聲)用這句話來開頭很棒當我還是""他""的時候廣告公司智威湯遜來找我他們應該是受了聖丹斯頻道之託他們的構想是要我錄製一些我的創作然後他們會找來動畫師替我的創作作出動畫一開始我不答應因為我一直認為詩能夠獨自地存在以前我有試過要把詩變成音樂結果都很不堪而且如果詩是用耳朵來寫的話在創作的時後它就已經被賦予了口語的音樂性再者如果你在讀一篇提到牛的詩我想你也不必去看到一頭牛的圖案我想說的是，讓讀者發揮點想像力吧 但後來我還是答應了因為這似乎還蠻有趣的而且我從小就超愛看卡通對我來說華納兄弟，快樂美樂蒂和兔寶寶的卡通對我的想像力的啟發更勝於艾蜜莉狄更生或是柯勒律治還是華茲華斯的詩我超愛兔寶寶而且這樣一來，詩就能出現在任何有電視的地方而我完全支持將詩推及大眾—不論是在公車上、在地鐵上在廣告看板還是在麥片盒上在我還是桂冠詩人的時候，又來了—真的，我也不想—(笑聲)我為達美航空公司做了一個詩的頻道總共播出了兩年人們在搭飛機的時候就也可以欣賞詩了 我的想法是讓詩從書本裡走出來更貼近大家是個很好的概念你們可以這樣想，就像踏出閱讀詩的第一步當你在廣告看板上，廣播裡還是麥片盒上等等的看到詩的時候一切發生得很快以至於你來不及去啟動你在高中的時候學到的詩歌金鐘罩 那我們就開始第一首吧這首小品叫作""布達佩斯""我在裡頭揭露出或是假裝揭露出創作歷程的秘密 (影片)旁白: ""布達佩斯""我的筆在紙上寫著就像一隻奇獸的嘴巴看起來像隻人類的手臂穿著一件鬆垮的綠色毛衣我看著它不斷地在紙上嗅著就像任何一隻動物心裡頭甚麼也沒有只想著能讓他活下去的蠐螬和昆蟲牠只是想活到明天或許可以穿著格子花呢衫鼻子貼著紙面乖乖的又寫了幾句而我正凝視窗外想像著布達佩斯或是其他的我從來沒去過的城市 這樣就比較好瞭解了(掌聲)其實寫作對我來說沒有這麼簡單但我想要假裝這是個信手拈來的工作有一個學生在入門課，下課後來找我她說 ""我認為作詩比寫作還難""我覺得她說的不對但卻發人深省(笑聲)所以我傾向至少假裝作詩很簡單我的一位詩人朋友，他有一句口號他說: ""如果一開始寫得不好，記得把失敗的證據都藏好"" (笑聲) 下一首詩也頗短的詩就只是用不同的方法詮釋一些東西我覺得你們可以把這首詩簡化成""有時你吃熊，有時熊吃你""這會運用到各位玩娃娃屋的想像力 (影片)旁白: 有時候有時候我把人們沿著桌子擺好膝蓋的地方彎著如果買來就是這樣的話然後把他們放在小小的木椅上一整個下午他們面面相覷穿咖啡色西裝的男人穿藍色洋裝的女人—完美的靜止，完美的表現但其他時候我則是那個被提著胳臂放到娃娃屋裡和其他人一起坐在長桌邊這很有趣但你會不會想要也許有一天你可以花上一整天像神一樣闊步肩膀就在雲端或是只是坐著夾在壁紙之間用一張小小的塑膠臉直愣愣的看著前方 (掌聲) 這部裡面有段挺像恐怖片的下一首叫做遺忘有點像是詩寫成的文章講的是心理失衡詩的開頭是一種人們稱為文學健忘症的健忘症也就是說，把剛才才讀到的東西給忘了 (影片)旁白: 遺忘一開始是作者的名字接著總是書名，情節再來是令人心碎的結局然後整本小說突然變成一本素未謀面的書甚至連聽都沒聽過這就好像記憶的船從熟悉的港口統統跑去腦子上的南半球退休去了跑到一個沒有電話的小漁村去很久以前你向九位繆斯女神們的名字說了聲再見然後看著二次方程式打包行李走人即便現在當你試著回想九大行星的順序時就有甚麼其他的事物被遺忘了或許是某個州花一位叔叔的地址巴拉圭的首都不論是甚麼你總是很難想得起來它沒有在你的舌尖上準備好也沒有埋伏在你脾臟裡的某個角落它已經漂走了漂向一條神話裡的黑暗河流但就你的記得的也只有那條河名字開頭是L而已在你走向遺忘的道路上你會遇到那些連游泳都忘記怎麼游或是腳踏車都不會騎了的人難怪你會在半夜爬起來在書裡面去翻找一個有名的戰役的日期也難怪窗外的月亮怎麼好像是從一篇你曾經用心體會的詩中漂了出來 (掌聲) 下一首詩叫做""鄉下""我的靈感是來自我在大學的時候的一個同學，現在是我的朋友他一直都住在佛蒙特的鄉村裡而我住在紐約我們會互相登門拜訪在我去鄉下的時候他會教我獵鹿其實就是拿著槍然後迷路了—(笑聲)還有去釣鱒魚那類的活動到他來紐約的時候我就會教他我會的事情大部分就是抽菸和喝酒(笑聲)而我們就這樣互相學習著接下來的這首詩是有關他要跟我說一些一開始我很難理解的在鄉村居家生活的小撇步這首詩叫做""鄉下"" (影片)旁白: ""鄉下""當你跟我說不要把易燃的火柴隨便丟在家裡因為老鼠會跑進去然後生火的時候我真的很懷疑但是當你把錫罐上的蓋子轉開的時候你看起來很正經你跟我說這就是我們放火柴的地方有誰能在那天晚上睡著?有誰能夠不去想那隻應該不會出現的老鼠沿著冰冷的水管爬著爬到印花壁紙的後面用他尖銳的牙齒咬著一隻木頭火柴?誰能不去注意到沿著牆角跑著那藍色的火柴頭摩擦著粗糙的橫樑突然一陣火焰那生物，就在這明亮閃耀的時刻突然超越了牠的時空—變成了一個縱火者一個火炬手在一個被遺忘的儀式裡小小的棕色祭師照亮了幾個亙古的夜晚?而誰又能不去注意到被那閃耀的光線下其他老鼠小小的驚嚇的表情—那些曾經住在你鄉下家裡的小老鼠們? (掌聲) 謝謝(掌聲)謝謝。最後一首詩叫做 ""亡人""我在一位朋友過世後寫下這首詩但是不是寫念弔詞的人常說的那些死去的人們看到我們聚在一起有多開心我認為要目睹自己的喪禮還要感到欣慰用這樣的方式開始我的來世很差所以我把這首詩命名為""亡人"" (影片)旁白: ""亡人""他們說亡人們總是往下看著我們我們在穿鞋子或是做三明治的時候透過那艘玻璃底的船他們往下看著同時他們慢慢划著船直到永恆他們看著我的的頭頂在地球上移動著當我們躺下來躺在草地上或是沙發上時可能我們正沉浸在溫暖的午後時光裡他們會覺得我們回看他們這會讓他們收起槳來變得安靜無聲就像父母親一樣等著等到我們都閉上了眼睛 (掌聲) 我不確定會不會有其他詩被做成動畫這花了很長一段時間—我是說，這種關聯很少見—要花很長一段時間來把這兩個東西結合起來不過呢，把輪子和行李箱結合在一起也花了我們不少時間(笑聲)我是說，我們已經使用輪子很久了而在地上拖東西又是一項古老又崇高的藝術 (笑聲) 我還有點時間來念一首近期寫的詩給你們聽如果有主題的話主題就是青春期這是為了某個特定的人寫的這首詩叫做""給我最愛的17歲女高中生"" 你知道如果你從你出生那天開始就開始蓋帕台農神廟的話只要再一年你就會完工了嗎?當然，你不可能獨自完成所以就算了你只要做自己就很好了我們喜歡你做你自己但你知道跟你同年的時候朱蒂嘉蘭拍個電影就可以賺150,000塊貞德就在帶領法軍打勝仗然後布萊茲帕斯卡把自己的房間整理乾淨了—喔不，我是說他發明了計算機當然，在你的未來的生命裡類似的事情一樣會發生就在你走出房間然後像花朵一樣綻放或是把你的襪子統統撿起來之後基於某些原因我一直想到琴格蕾小姐15歲的時候就成為了英國女皇但她之後就被砍頭了，所以不要把她當作偶像(笑聲)在幾個世紀之後當舒伯特跟你一樣大的時候他在家會幫忙洗洗碗但那並沒有阻礙他去寫出兩部交響樂和四齣歌劇還有兩個完整的彌撒曲(笑聲)不過呢，那是在奧地利在浪漫抒情時代高漲的年代不是在一個克里夫蘭的郊區裡(笑聲)老實說，誰會在乎安妮歐克麗在15歲就成神射手或瑪麗亞卡拉絲17歲就在托斯卡裡初試啼聲我們覺得你做自己就可以很特別—玩玩食物或是在盯著空氣發呆(笑聲)對了舒伯特洗碗的事我是騙你的不過並不代表他從來不做家事 (笑聲) (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲)"
