Talk	en	zh-tw
billie_jean_king_this_tennis_icon_paved_the_way_for_women_in_sports	"Billie Jean King: Hi, everyone! (Applause) Thanks, Pat. Thank you! Getting me all wound up, now! (Laughter) Pat Mitchell: Good! You know, when I was watching the video again of the match, you must have felt like the fate of the world's women was on every stroke you took. Were you feeling that? BJK: First of all, Bobby Riggs — he was the former number one player, he wasn't just some hacker, by the way. He was one of my heroes and I admired him. And that's the reason I beat him, actually, because I respected him. (Laughter) It's true — my mom and especially my dad always said: ""Respect your opponent, and never underestimate them, ever."" And he was correct. He was absolutely correct. But I knew it was about social change. And I was really nervous whenever we announced it, and I felt like the whole world was on my shoulders. And I thought, ""If I lose, it's going to put women back 50 years, at least."" Title IX had just been passed the year before — June 23, 1972. And women's professional tennis — there were nine of us who signed a one-dollar contract in 1970 — now remember, the match is in '73. So we were only in our third year of having a tour where we could actually play, have a place to compete and make a living. So there were nine of us that signed that one-dollar contract. And our dream was for any girl, born any place in the world — if she was good enough — there would be a place for her to compete and for us to make a living. Because before 1968, we made 14 dollars a day, and we were under the control of organizations. So we really wanted to break away from that. But we knew it wasn't really about our generation so much; we knew it was about the future generations. We do stand on the shoulders of the people that came before us, there is no question. But every generation has the chance to make it better. That was really on my mind. I really wanted to start matching the hearts and minds to Title IX. Title IX, in case anybody doesn't know, which a lot of people probably don't, said that any federal funds given to a high school, college or university, either public or private, had to — finally — give equal monies to boys and girls. And that changed everything. (Applause) So you can have a law, but it's changing the hearts and minds to match up with it. That's when it really rocks, totally. So that was on my mind. I wanted to start that change in the hearts and minds. But two things came out of that match. For women: self-confidence, empowerment. They actually had enough nerve to ask for a raise. Some women have waited 10, 15 years to ask. I said, ""More importantly, did you get it?"" (Laughter) And they did! And for the men? A lot of the men today don't realize it, but if you're in your 50s, 60s or whatever, late 40s, you're the first generation of men of the Women's Movement — whether you like it or not! (Laughter) (Applause) And for the men, what happened for the men, they'd come up to me — and most times, the men are the ones who have tears in their eyes, it's very interesting. They go, ""Billie, I was very young when I saw that match, and now I have a daughter. And I am so happy I saw that as a young man."" And one of those young men, at 12 years old, was President Obama. And he actually told me that when I met him, he said: ""You don't realize it, but I saw that match at 12. And now I have two daughters, and it has made a difference in how I raise them."" So both men and women got a lot out of it, but different things. PM: And now there are generations — at least one or two — who have experienced the equality that Title IX and other fights along the way made possible. And for women, there are generations who have also experienced teamwork. They got to play team sports in a way they hadn't before. So you had a legacy already built in terms of being an athlete, a legacy of the work you did to lobby for equal pay for women athletes and the Women's Sports Foundation. What now are you looking to accomplish with The Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative? BJK: I think it goes back to an epiphany I had at 12. At 11, I wanted to be the number one tennis player in the world, and a friend had asked me to play and I said, ""What's that?"" Tennis was not in my family — basketball was, other sports. Fast forward to 12 years old, (Laughter) and I'm finally starting to play in tournaments where you get a ranking at the end of the year. So I was daydreaming at the Los Angeles Tennis Club, and I started thinking about my sport and how tiny it was, but also that everybody who played wore white shoes, white clothes, played with white balls — everybody who played was white. And I said to myself, at 12 years old, ""Where is everyone else?"" And that just kept sticking in my brain. And that moment, I promised myself I'd fight for equal rights and opportunities for boys and girls, men and women, the rest of my life. And that tennis, if I was fortunate enough to become number one — and I knew, being a girl, it would be harder to have influence, already at that age — that I had this platform. And tennis is global. And I thought, ""You know what? I've been given an opportunity that very few people have had."" I didn't know if I was going to make it — this was only 12. I sure wanted it, but making it is a whole other discussion. I just remember I promised myself, and I really try to keep my word. That's who I truly am, just fighting for people. And, unfortunately, women have had less. And we are considered less. And so my attentions, where did they have to go? It was just ... you have to. And learn to stick up for yourself, hear your own voice. You hear the same words keep coming out all the time, and I got really lucky because I had an education. And I think if you can see it you can be it, you know? If you can see it, you can be it. You look at Pat, you look at other leaders, you look at these speakers, look at yourself, because everyone — everyone — can do something extraordinary. Every single person. PM: And your story, Billie, has inspired so many women everywhere. Now with the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative, you're taking on an even bigger cause. Because one thing we hear a lot about is women taking their voice, working to find their way into leadership positions. But what you're talking about is even bigger than that. It's inclusive leadership. And this is a generation that has grown up thinking more inclusively — BJK: Isn't it great? Look at the technology! It's amazing how it connects us all! It's about connection. It's simply amazing what's possible because of it. But the Billie Jean King Leadership Initiative is really about the workforce mostly, and trying to change it, so people can actually go to work and be their authentic selves. Because most of us have two jobs: One, to fit in — I'll give you a perfect example. An African American woman gets up an hour earlier to go to work, straightens her hair in the bathroom, goes to the bathroom probably four, five, six times a day to keep straightening her hair, to keep making sure she fits in. So she's working two jobs. She's got this other job, whatever that may be, but she's also trying to fit in. Or this poor man who kept his diploma — he went to University of Michigan, but he never would talk about his poverty as a youngster, ever — just would not mention it. So he made sure they saw he was well-educated. And then you see a gay guy who has an NFL — which means American football for all of you out there, it's a big deal, it's very macho — and he talked about football all the time, because he was gay and he didn't want anybody to know. It just goes on and on. So my wish for everyone is to be able to be their authentic self 24/7, that would be the ultimate. And we catch ourselves — I mean, I catch myself to this day. Even being gay I catch myself, you know, like, (Gasp) a little uncomfortable, a little surge in my gut, feeling not totally comfortable in my own skin. So, I think you have to ask yourself — I want people to be themselves, whatever that is, just let it be. PM: And the first research the Leadership Initiative did showed that, that these examples you just used — that many of us have the problem of being authentic. But what you've just looked at is this millennial generation, who have benefited from all these equal opportunities — which may not be equal but exist everywhere — BJK: First of all, I'm really lucky. Partnership with Teneo, a strategic company that's amazing. That's really the reason I'm able to do this. I've had two times in my life where I've actually had men really behind me with power. And that was in the old days with Philip Morris with Virginia Slims, and this is the second time in my entire life. And then Deloitte. The one thing I wanted was data — facts. So Deloitte sent out a survey, and over 4,000 people now have answered, and we're continuing in the workplace. And what do the millennials feel? Well, they feel a lot, but what they're so fantastic about is — you know, our generation was like, ""Oh, we're going to get representation."" So if you walk into a room, you see everybody represented. That's not good enough anymore, which is so good! So the millennials are fantastic; they want connection, engagement. They just want you to tell us what you're feeling, what you're thinking, and get into the solution. They're problem-solvers, and of course, you've got the information at your fingertips, compared to when I was growing up. PM: What did the research show you about millennials? Are they going to make a difference? Are they going to create a world where there is really an inclusive work force? BJK: Well, in 2025, 75 percent of the global workforce is going to be millennials. I think they are going to help solve problems. I think they have the wherewithal to do it. I know they care a lot. They have big ideas and they can make big things happen. I want to stay in the now with the young people, I don't want to get behind. (Laughter) PM: I don't think there's any chance! But what you found out in the research about millennials is not really the experience that a lot of people have with millennials. BJK: No, well, if we want to talk — OK, I've been doing my little mini-survey. I've been talking to the Boomers, who are their bosses, and I go, ""What do you think about the millennials?"" And I'm pretty excited, like it's good, and they get this face — (Laughter) ""Oh, you mean the 'Me' generation?"" (Laughter) I say, ""Do you really think so? Because I do think they care about the environment and all these things."" And they go, ""Oh, Billie, they cannot focus."" (Laughter) They actually have proven that the average focus for an 18-year-old is 37 seconds. (Laughter) They can't focus. And they don't really care. I just heard a story the other night: a woman owns a gallery and she has these workers. She gets a text from one of the workers, like an intern, she's just starting — she goes, ""Oh, by the way, I'm going to be late because I'm at the hairdresser's."" (Laughter) So she arrives, and this boss says, ""What's going on?"" And she says, ""Oh, I was late, sorry, how's it going?"" She says, ""Well, guess what? I'd like you leave, you're finished."" She goes, ""OK."" (Laughter) No problem! PM: Now Billie, that story — I know, but that's what scares the boomers — I'm just telling you — so I think it's good for us to share. (Laughter) No, it is good for us to share, because we're our authentic selves and what we're really feeling, so we've got to take it both ways, you know? But I have great faith because — if you've been in sports like I have — every generation gets better. It's a fact. With the Women's Sports Foundation being the advocates for Title IX still, because we're trying to keep protecting the law, because it's in a tenuous position always, so we really are concerned, and we do a lot of research. That's very important to us. And I want to hear from people. But we really have to protect what Title IX stands for worldwide. And you heard President Carter talk about how Title IX is protected. And do you know that every single lawsuit that girls, at least in sports, have gone up against — whatever institutions — has won? Title IX is there to protect us. And it is amazing. But we still have to get the hearts and minds — the hearts and minds to match the legislation is huge. PM: So what gets you up every morning? What keeps you sustaining your work, sustaining the fight for equality, extending it, always exploring new areas, trying to find new ways ... ? BJK: Well, I always drove my parents crazy because I was always the curious one. I'm highly motivated. My younger brother was a Major League Baseball player. My poor parents did not care if we were any good. (Laughter) And we drove them crazy because we pushed, we pushed because we wanted to be the best. And I think it's because of what I'm hearing today in TED talks. I think to listen to these different women, to listen to different people, to listen to President Carter — 90 years old, by the way, and he we was throwing these figures out that I would never — I'd have to go, ""Excuse me, wait a minute, I need to get a list out of these figures."" He was rattling off — I mean, that's amazing, I'm sorry. PM: He's an amazing man. (Applause) BJK: And then you're going to have President Mary Robinson, who's a former president — Thank you, Irish! 62 percent! LGBTQ! Yes! (Applause) Congress is voting in June on same-sex marriage, so these are things that for some people are very hard to hear. But always remember, every one of us is an individual, a human being with a beating heart, who cares and wants to live their authentic life. OK? You don't have to agree with somebody, but everyone has the opportunity. I think we all have an obligation to continue to keep moving the needle forward, always. And these people have been so inspiring. Everyone matters. And every one of you is an influencer. You out there listening, out there in the world, plus the people here — every single person's an influencer. Never, ever forget that. OK? So don't ever give up on yourself. PM: Billie, you have been an inspiration for us. BJK: Thanks, Pat! (Applause) Thanks, TED! (Applause) Thanks a lot!"	比利：大家好 （掌聲） 謝謝你，帕特謝謝你讓我現在熱血沸騰 （笑聲） 主持人：很好你知道嗎，當我再一次看你比賽的影片我想你一定感受到就像全世界女性的命運就在每次你的擊球當中你是這樣感覺的嗎？ 比利：首先，鮑比·里格斯是前網球冠軍不是一般的網球手他是我心目中的英雄之一而我很欽佩他而事實上，對他的尊敬是我擊敗他的原因 （笑聲） 這是真的—我的父母，尤其是我的父親經常說：「尊重你的對手，永遠不可低估他們。」他絕對是正確的但我知道這比賽關乎到社會的轉變而在當時宣佈這件事時我真的非常緊張我感覺像全世界都在我的肩膀上而我當時在想：「如果我輸了，這會令全女性的地位倒退最少50年。」第九條立法在前一年剛剛通過—就在1972年6月23日而女子職業網球賽—當時我們中的九個人在1970年簽了一美元的合約—記住，這比賽是在1973年的我們當時只是參加巡回賽的第三年在那時，我們可以真正的玩（網球）與人競爭以及養家糊口因此我們九個人簽了一美元的合約我們的夢想是讓每個在任何地方出生的女孩只要她足夠的好就有一個讓她能與人競爭的機會亦有我們糊口的地方因為在1968年前我們每天的收入只有14美金我們亦要屈服於組織的控制之下所以我們很希望打破這個現況但我們也知道這對我們這一代沒什麼影響這是關乎下一代的事情 毫無疑問，我們是踏在前人的肩膀上但每一代都有改善現況的機會我是這樣深深感受到的我真的想要去得到其他人對第九條的全力支持第九條，可能有很多人不曾知道指出了所有聯邦政府用在高中、學院及大學的資金無論是公立學校還是私立學校給予男女的金額最終都必須是同等分量這個條例改變了所有事情 （掌聲） 因此你們可以有一個法例而這會將我們的支持引導向該法例所以它在當時十分震撼我對它印象亦相當深刻我想要去推動這轉變 這比賽中突顯了兩點女性的自信及自主她們確實有了充分的勇氣去爭取更好有些女性等待了10年、15年我說：「更重要的是，你們得到了嗎？」 （笑聲） 而她們得到了！而男性呢？在今天，很多男士都不曾認識到如果你是在五、六十年代甚至是在四十年代的時候你是第一代牽涉於女權運動的男性無論你喜歡與否！ （笑聲） （掌聲） 而男性呢在男性身上發生了什麼？他們來到我的身邊大部分的時間，這些男性都含有淚水這亦是相當有趣的他們說：「比利我在很年輕的時候便看到了你的比賽而到了現在，我已經有了一個女兒我很開心能在年輕的時候看到這比賽。」這些年輕人當中有一個便是十二歲時的總統奧巴馬有一次我遇上了他，他說：「你不會知道的我在十二歲時看到這比賽現在我有了兩個女孩這比賽令我教育她們的方式有了很大的影響。」所以男性和女性都從中得到很多只是他們得到的不一樣 主持人：而現在有最少一到兩代人享受到平等的價值這是第九條及其他抗爭令它可能的而這幾代的女性亦能經歷到團隊合作她們能因此玩一些以前無法玩的團隊運動是妳給了我們一份作為運動員的遺贈一份讓女運動員能享受到平等待遇的遺贈以及一個女性體育基金會而現在，妳想完成什麼以比利·簡·金領袖培訓計劃？ 比利：這要追溯到在十二歲參加的主顯節在十一歲時我想要做世界第一的網球選手當時有一個朋友問我去玩（網球）而我回應：「這是什麼？」網球在我的家庭中不常見但籃球及其他運動卻不然很快的到了我十二歲的時候 （笑聲） 我終於開始參加了錦標賽並在年終前獲得了一個排名我當時還在洛杉磯網球會所發著白日夢我開始思考這個運動到底它有多微小每位運動員都穿白鞋，白色衣服玩的也是白球所有人都是白人在十二歲的時候，我問自己：「其他人在哪裏？」這句說話仍舊在我的腦海當中這一刻起我承諾自己我會為一切平等的權利、機會所奮鬥為了男孩和女孩，男人和女人用盡我的餘生也在所不惜而幸運的，我當上了網球冠軍我知道，作為女孩，我很難有任何影響力還要是在這個年紀但我有了這個平台（網球）而網球是全球性的我在想：「你知道嗎？我得到了個很罕有的機會。」我不知道我會否去爭取它我只有12歲我肯定想要獲得它但爭取與否是個截然不同的問題我只記得我曾答應過自己我真的很想信守這承諾這就是我，只為了別人爭取的人 很不幸地，女性得到的總是較少受到的關注亦較少所以我將注意力放在這問題上她們必須如何前進？而且是......她們必須要學會跟隨自己所想，聆聽自己所說妳會聆聽到同一個字重複地在腦海中出現我真的十分幸運，有著受到教育的機會我想如果能看到它，你就能做到它，知道嗎？如果能看到它，你就能做到它你看看帕特，看看其他領袖你看看其他講者，看看自己因為所有人—所有人—都能做到出人意表的事情是每一個人 主持人：比利妳的故事真能讓任何地方的女性感到鼓舞現在，有著比利·簡·金領袖培訓計劃妳正在邁向更遠大的目標我們經常聽到，女性正在表達自己的訴求並在工作中努力前往領袖級的職位但你所說的，比這些更偉大這是包容性的領導意識而這代人亦學會以更包容性的方式思考 比利：這不是很好嗎？看看這些科技！它令人驚喜地把我們全都聯繫在一起！這一切都是關於聯繫它令人驚喜，是因為源於它而可能的一切而比利·簡·金領袖培訓計劃最主要是關係到工作的一群亦嘗試去作出改變令人能真正地工作，並能作為真正的自己 我們大部分人都有雙重身份其中一個，要融入 ... 我會給你一個極棒的例子有一個美國黑人女士提早一小時起床去工作她在浴室把自己頭髮拉直她每天要去浴室四至六次去拉直自己的頭髮確認自己能融入她有著雙重身份她有另外一個工作身份，無論這是什麼但她會盡力去融入或是這個得到畢業文憑的窮男孩他到了密西根大學他不曾提及過自己在年輕時的窮困是從未曾提及過所以他能肯定在其他人眼中，他受到優質教育然後你看見一個同性戀的男人在國家美式足球聯盟這對你們意味著美式足球這是充滿著男子氣概的運動而他經常談論著美式足球但因為他是同性戀，他不能讓其他人知道類似的事情就這樣發生著所以我的希望是讓大家能作為真正的自己這就是最終的希望而我們找到自己—我指，我找到了當天的自己就算是同性戀，我也會找到自己，就像 （喘氣聲） 有一點不舒服的感覺以及一些鼓起的勇氣感覺自己身體不全是舒適我想你曾問過自己我希望人能作為自己無論自己是怎樣，就這樣 主持人：領袖培訓計劃的第一份調查顯示你所提出的這些例子—我們很多都有難以表現自我的問題但剛才你指的是這千禧年的一代這些受惠於平等機會的人但不平等依舊在世界各地存在著 比特：首先，我很幸運與蒂諾合作的策略性企業是很令人驚喜的這是為什麼我確信我能夠做到我的生命中曾經出現過兩次得到背後男人的支持一次是與菲利普·莫里斯而這是我生命中的第二次然後是德勤我當時所需要的，是數據、事實所以德勤進行了個調查並得到了超過四千人的回應而我們亦因此得以在職場這範疇上繼續 千禧年這一代的感受是怎樣的？他們感受了很多但他們真正為之興奮的是你知道的，這一代就像「我們快要找到代表了。」所以當你走進一間房你看見每個人都被代表了這不只是足夠好，而是好極了！所以說千禧年這一代都是極好的他們需要聯繫、參與度他們只想要你告訴他們你怎樣感覺的、你怎樣思考的然後他們會找出問題的答案他們是問題解決者而當然，相比起我成長的年代你們隨手便可以得到這些資料 主持人：這些調查怎樣向你展示了關於千禧年的這一代？他們將會改變社會嗎？他們將要創造一個工作階層能具有包容性的世界嗎？ 比利：在2025年全球上75%的工作階層將會是千禧年的一代我想他們將要去解決問題我想他們具備必要的資源去做到它我知道他們對事物很關心他們有偉大的想法他們亦能讓偉大的念頭成真我想要跟年輕人一起站在現今的世界我不想要落後 （笑聲） 主持人：我不認為你會有可能落後的！但在這些關於千禧年一代的調查中你的發現與很多人跟這一代人的親身體驗有所不同 比利：不是的，如果我們想要探討的話—我正進行一個小規模調查我曾與雇有千禧年一代的老闆進行過對話「你怎樣想這些千禧年一代的呢？」我感到十分興奮幻想著雇主會回應他們都很好而他們給了我這副面孔 （笑聲） 「你在指我的這一代人嗎？」 （笑聲） 我說：「你真的這樣想嗎？」我想他們會很關心周圍環境以及這一切事物他們說：「比利，他們做事無法專注。」 （笑聲） 他們真的證實了 對18歲而言的平均專注時間只有37秒 （笑聲） 他們無法專注而且他們真的不關心我在另一個晚上聽到一個故事一個有著畫廓的女士有這些員工她從一個員工處收到一個短訊就像是一個實習生，她只是剛開始工作—「補充一下，我將會遲到因為我現正在理髮店裏。」 （笑聲） 所以正當她抵達時，老闆問：「發生了什麼事？」而她說：「不好意思，我來遲了工作進行得怎樣？」老闆說：「我寧願妳是完成了工作，而早退了。」她離開了，並說：「好吧。」 （笑聲） 沒問題！主持人：比利，這故事—比利：我知道，這些事情把雇主嚇怕了我只想說告訴你—我想我們應該把這些故事分享出去 （笑聲） 不是的，我們應該分享這些故事是因為，我們是真正的自己而這是我們真正的感受因此我們用兩個角度去理解它，知道嗎？我有這個信念如果你曾像我一樣，在體育界裏打滾過我相信每一代人都將會變得更好這是事實有著女性體育基金會作為對第九條的支持我們正嘗試捍衛這法例因為這總是個脆弱的位置我們對此真的很關心而且做了很多調查這對我們而言相當重要我亦想要聆聽別人的聲音我們亦必須保護第九條所帶給世界的意義你應曾聽說過有關總統卡特談論著如何保護第九條你知道每一個訴訟讓女孩—最少是在體育界的女孩—都挺身而出的無論是針對任何機構的都贏了？第九條正在保護我們它是令人驚喜的但我們仍需要爭取其他人的全力支持這項立法所需的支持是龐大的 主持人：是什麼讓你每天清早醒來讓你繼續你的事業支持你對平等的追求甚至讓妳擴張這奮鬥的規模不斷嘗試著新的方法，尋找新的方向？ 比利：我經常因好奇而令父母感到瘋狂我是個極度積極的人我的弟弟是個美國職業棒球大聯盟的選手我的父母不會擔心我們做得不好 （笑聲） 我們令他們感到瘋狂是因為我們推動自己因為我們想做到最好我想這是因為我今天在 TED 演講上所聽到的我想去聆聽不同女性的聲音去聆聽不同人的聲音去聆聽總統卡特的聲音補充一下，他現在已經九十歲他拋出了很多的數據這些都是我未曾—我要走了不好意思，等我一下我需要列出這些數據才行他像是脫口而出的我是指，他真的令人驚嘆，對不起 主持人：他的確是令人驚嘆的 （掌聲） 比利：然後，下一位是總統瑪麗。羅賓遜她是位前總統「感謝你，愛爾蘭人！62%了！同性戀社群！很好！」 （掌聲） 「代表會將於六月就同性婚姻投票。」這些都是部分人不願聽見的消息但我們要記住，每一個人都是獨立的個體是一個心臟在跳動著的人都是想要活出自我的人可以嗎？你不需要認同其他人但每個人都有機會 我想我們全部都有義務去不斷推動著這個指針而這些人都是令人鼓舞的每個人都是重要的而且都是能影響別人的在這聆聽著的人世界上的人，加上那裏的人每一個人都能影響別人的永遠不要忘記這句說話所以，永遠不可以放棄自己 主持人：比利，妳是我們的鼓舞 比利：謝謝你！ （掌聲） 謝謝你，TED！ （掌聲） 謝謝！
