Talk	en	zh-tw
bill_gates_how_state_budgets_are_breaking_us_schools	"Well, this is about state budgets. This is probably the most boring topic of the whole morning. But I want to tell you, I think it's an important topic that we need to care about. State budgets are big, big money — I'll show you the numbers — and they get very little scrutiny. The understanding is very low. Many of the people involved have special interests or short-term interests that get them not thinking about what the implications of the trends are. And these budgets are the key for our future; they're the key for our kids. Most education funding — whether it's K through 12, or the great universities or community colleges — most of the money for those things is coming out of these state budgets. But we have a problem. Here's the overall picture. U.S. economy is big — 14.7 trillion. Now out of that pie, the government spends 36 percent. So this is combining the federal level, which is the largest, the state level and the local level. And it's really in this combined way that you get an overall sense of what's going on, because there's a lot of complex things like Medicaid and research money that flow across those boundaries. But we're spending 36 percent. Well what are we taking in? Simple business question. Answer is 26 percent. Now this leaves 10 percent deficit, sort of a mind-blowing number. And some of that, in fact, is due to the fact that we've had an economic recession. Receipts go down, some spending programs go up, but most of it is not because of that. Most of it is because of ways that the liabilities are building up and the trends, and that creates a huge challenge. In fact, this is the forecast picture. There are various things in here: I could say we might raise more revenue, or medical innovation will make the spending even higher. It is an increasingly difficult picture, even assuming the economy does quite well — probably better than it will do. This is what you see at this overall level. Now how did we get here? How could you have a problem like this? After all, at least on paper, there's this notion that these state budgets are balanced. Only one state says they don't have to balance the budget. But what this means actually is that there's a pretense. There's no real, true balancing going on, and in a sense, the games they play to hide that actually obscure the topic so much that people don't see things that are actually pretty straight-forward challenges. When Jerry Brown was elected, this was the challenge that was put to him. That is, through various gimmicks and things, a so-called balanced budget had led him to have 25 billion missing out of the 76 billion in proposed spending. Now he's put together some thoughts: About half of that he'll cut, another half, perhaps in a very complex set of steps, taxes will be approved. But even so, as you go out into those future years, various pension costs, health costs go up enough, and the revenue does not go up enough. So you get a big squeeze. What were those things that allowed us to hide this? Well, some really nice little tricks. And these were somewhat noticed. The paper said, ""It's not really balanced. It's got holes. It perpetuates deficit spending. It's riddled with gimmicks."" And really when you get down to it, the guys at Enron never would have done this. This is so blatant, so extreme. Is anyone paying attention to some of the things these guys do? They borrow money. They're not supposed to, but they figure out a way. They make you pay more in withholding just to help their cash flow out. They sell off the assets. They defer the payments. They sell off the revenues from tobacco. And California's not unique. In fact, there's about five states that are worse and only really four states that don't face this big challenge. So it's systemic across the entire country. It really comes from the fact that certain long-term obligations — health care, where innovation makes it more expensive, early retirement and pension, where the age structure gets worse for you, and just generosity — that these mis-accounting things allow to develop over time, that you've got a problem. This is the retiree health care benefits. Three million set aside, 62 billion dollar liability — much worse than the car companies. And everybody looked at that and knew that that was headed toward a huge problem. The forecast for the medical piece alone is to go from 26 percent of the budget to 42 percent. Well what's going to give? Well in order to accommodate that, you would have to cut education spending in half. It really is this young versus the old to some degree. If you don't change that revenue picture, if you don't solve what you're doing in health care, you're going to be deinvesting in the young. The great University of California university system, the great things that have gone on, won't happen. So far it's meant layoffs, increased class sizes. Within the education community there's this discussion of, ""Should it just be the young teachers who get laid off, or the less good teachers who get laid off?"" And there's a discussion: if you're going to increase class sizes, where do you do that? How much effect does that have? And unfortunately, as you get into that, people get confused and think, well maybe you think that's okay. In fact, no, education spending should not be cut. There's ways, if it's temporary, to minimize the impact, but it's a problem. It's also really a problem for where we need to go. Technology has a role to play. Well we need money to experiment with that, to get those tools in there. There's the idea of paying teachers for effectiveness, measuring them, giving them feedback, taking videos in the classroom. That's something I think is very, very important. Well you have to allocate dollars for that system and for that incentive pay. In a situation where you have growth, you put the new money into this. Or even if you're flat, you might shift money into it. But with the type of cuts we're talking about, it will be far, far harder to get these incentives for excellence, or to move over to use technology in the new way. So what's going on? Where's the brain trust that's in error here? Well there really is no brain trust. (Laughter) It's sort of the voters. It's sort of us showing up. Just look at this spending. California will spend over 100 billion, Microsoft, 38, Google, about 19. The amount of IQ in good numeric analysis, both inside Google and Microsoft and outside, with analysts and people of various opinions — should they have spent on that? No, they wasted their money on this. What about this thing? — it really is quite phenomenal. Everybody has an opinion. There's great feedback. And the numbers are used to make decisions. If you go over the education spending and the health care spending — particularly these long-term trends — you don't have that type of involvement on a number that's more important in terms of equity, in terms of learning. So what do we need to do? We need better tools. We can get some things out on the Internet. I'm going to use my website to put up some things that will give the basic picture. We need lots more. There's a few good books, one about school spending and where the money comes from — how that's changed over time, and the challenge. We need better accounting. We need to take the fact that the current employees, the future liabilities they create, that should come out of the current budget. We need to understand why they've done the pension accounting the way they have. It should be more like private accounting. It's the gold standard. And finally, we need to really reward politicians. Whenever they say there's these long-term problems, we can't say, ""Oh, you're the messenger with bad news? We just shot you."" In fact, there are some like these: Erskine Bowles, Alan Simpson and others, who have gone through and given proposals for this overall federal health-spending state-level problem. But in fact, their work was sort of pushed off. In fact, the week afterwards, some tax cuts were done that made the situation even worse than their assumptions. So we need these pieces. Now I think this is a solvable problem. It's a great country with lots of people. But we have to draw those people in, because this is about education. And just look at what happened with the tuitions with the University of California and project that out for another three, four, five years — it's unaffordable. And that's the kind of thing — the investment in the young — that makes us great, allows us to contribute. It allows us to do the art, the biotechnology, the software and all those magic things. And so the bottom line is we need to care about state budgets because they're critical for our kids and our future. Thank you. (Applause)"	這是有關州預算的演講這大概是整個早上最枯燥乏味的講題但是我想告訴你，我認為這是我們必需關心的重要課題州預算有非常、非常多錢我等一下會告訴你們有多少錢而且它們幾乎不受審查很少人瞭解它大部分提出與審查預算的人只關注特定或短期的利益讓他們不會考慮長期趨勢所暗示的警訊而這些預算卻是我們未來的關鍵是我們孩子的關鍵大多數的教育經費無論是幼稚園到小學還是大學、社區大學這些學校大部分的資金都來自州預算 但是我們有個問題這是美國全部的預算圖美國的經濟很龐大（國內生產總值）十四萬七千億美元在整個大餅之中政府支出佔了百分之三十六其中聯邦預算佔得最多其餘是州預算與地方預算如此錯綜複雜就是你感受到目前的整體狀況因為裡面有太多複雜的項目例如健保與研究支出同時在三者之間編列但是我們確實支出百分之三十六好，我們到底付了多少？基本的商業問題答案是百分之二十六中間有百分之十的赤字是個令人震驚的數字其中一部分赤字，實際上，是因為我們正處於經濟不景氣收入減少某些支出計畫增加但這不是大多數赤字的原因大多數赤字來自於負債一直累積以及趨勢如此讓我們面臨巨大的挑戰事實上，這個預測圖裡面有幾個項目我可以說，我們可以提高收入或讓醫療創新使得支出更為增加讓前景看來日益困難即使假設經濟景氣不錯比預期得更好這是你會看到的全體數字 我們怎麼會變成這樣？怎麼會有這種麻煩？總之，至少在帳面上有這種概念說這些州預算經過平衡只有一個州說他們不必平衡預算這實際上表示平衡預算都只是藉口他們根本沒有達成真正的平衡以某方面來說，他們在玩的把戲是隱藏赤字實際上更加模糊了問題所在讓別人無法發覺這就是目前非常直接的挑戰當傑利．布朗選上（加州州長）這就是他要面對的挑戰那就是藉由種種的花招與方法所謂的平衡預算讓加州提出的七百六十億預算支出消失了二百五十億他總結下來有幾個想法：他會砍掉其中一半另一半也許藉由十分複雜的手段以加稅的方法補足即使如此當你面對未來幾年各種退休金支出、醫療支出持續增加但是收入卻沒有追上支出你就必須大幅壓縮預算 為什麼我們可以隱藏這些問題？好，有一些十分巧妙的技倆這些是讓人稍微注意到的報紙上寫著「並非全部平衡」「有財務漏洞」「延續赤字支出」「充滿了花招」當你真正深入調查的時候會發現安隆的傢伙從來沒作過這種蠢事（各州政府）實在明目張膽實在罪大惡極難道沒有人注意到這些傢伙所作的事情？他們借錢他們不該借錢，但是他們找到了方法他們強迫你繳交更多的預扣稅金只是為了讓他們有現金可用他們出售資產他們拒絕付錢他們販賣來自香菸的收益加州不是特例事實上，大概有五個州的狀況更惡劣只有四個州不必面對這麼大的挑戰所以這是充斥整個美國的現象它來自於這個事實相當多的長期債務——科技創新讓健保日益昂貴提早退休與退休金，人口老化讓問題更加嚴重正因為寬容——讓這些不正當的會計手段長期持續下去讓你面對棘手的問題這是退休人員健保的利益三百萬人，六百二十億美元的債務比汽車公司還糟糕每個看到的人都知道這會如同滾雪球一般變成巨大的問題光看醫療方面的預測將會從百分之二十六的預算增加到百分之四十二 誰來付錢？為了應付這些債務你必須削減一半的教育支出以某種程度來說這真的是年輕人與老人的戰爭如果你的收入不變如果你無法改變健保你就會剝奪年輕人加州的大學系統一直是優良學校以後不會再持續下去目前是裁減師資增加每班學生人數在教育圈子裡面討論的是：「我們應該裁掉年輕的老師還是表現較差的老師？」裡面也有討論：「如果增加班級人數要增加在哪裡？會有什麼影響？」不幸的是，當你掉進陷阱，就會困惑然後想：「好吧，我想我可以接受」實際上，不可以，絕對不能削減教育支出有些方法，如果只是暫時的可以降低影響但是它確實是個大問題它也是掌握我們未來方向的問題科技在其中扮演重要的角色我們需要資金實驗以研發可用的教育工具有人想依據教師教學的成效給薪量化教學成效、給予教師回饋在教室拍攝影片我覺得這些事情非常、非常重要你必須花錢購買這種系統才能給付獎勵性的薪水經濟成長的狀況下你可以把多的收入花費在這裡即使你經濟持平，你也可以挪一些錢過去但現在是我們之前所講的惡劣情況就會變得非常、非常困難難以撥出這些獎勵金給優秀教師或是難以改變方式運用科技提昇教育 所以現在到底是什麼狀況？智囊團在哪裡哪裡就會出錯好吧，根本沒有智囊團（笑聲）這算是投票者的義務，也算是我們該挺身而出的時候看看這些支出加州支出超過一千億美元微軟，三百八十億Google，大約一百九十億這些是 Google 與微軟裡面擅長數學分析的智商總和出了這兩家公司，有一堆分析師與各式各樣意見的人——他們該花那筆錢嗎？不，他們在浪費錢。這個如何？——這真是了不起每個人都有意見有大量的回饋意見意見的數量用來作出決策如果你查看教育支出與健保支出——尤其是長期趨勢——你不需要瞭解這些數字就知道公平與學習才是最重要的事 所以我們需要作什麼？我們需要更好的工具（提醒大眾）我們可以靠網際網路作到一些我會運用我的網站發布一些資料，讓人瞭解一些基本概念我們還需要更多有幾本好書有一本關於學校支出與財源——收支如何隨時間變化，以及面臨的挑戰我們需要更好的會計方法我們需要承認事實現在的員工，他們製造未來的債務都是從現在的預算中支付我們需要瞭解為什麼他們對退休金的會計數字作了這些手腳政府會計應該要如同私人會計有著嚴格的標準最後，我們需要以實際行動獎勵政治家當他們說有長期的問題存在我們不能回答：「喔，所以你只是個烏鴉嘴？去死吧」事實上，有些人就是那樣子厄斯金．包爾、艾藍、辛普森與其他人他們進行調查並提出方案處理全聯邦普遍存在健保支出於州層級問題但是實際上，他們的方案被延後事實上，方案提出之後幾個星期通過了一些減稅法案導致情況比他們預想的更加惡化所以我們需要之前提過的東西 目前我認為這是可以解決的問題美國是人口眾多的大國但是我們必須同心協力因為這是有關教育的問題只要看看加州大學學費的問題向外推測三、四、五年之後上漲的學費年輕人將會讀不起大學教育是一種——對於年輕人的投資——使我們（美國人）偉大、讓我們貢獻心力它讓我們成就藝術發展生物科技、研發軟體作出許多神奇的事物所以重點是我們必須關心州預算因為它是我們孩子與我們未來的關鍵 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
