Talk	en	zh-tw
bjarke_ingels_3_warp_speed_architecture_tales	"The public debate about architecture quite often just stays on contemplating the final result, the architectural object. Is the latest tower in London a gherkin or a sausage or a sex tool? So recently, we asked ourselves if we could invent a format that could actually tell the stories behind the projects, maybe combining images and drawings and words to actually sort of tell stories about architecture. And we discovered that we didn't have to invent it, it already existed in the form of a comic book. So we basically copied the format of the comic book to actually tell the stories of behind the scenes, how our projects actually evolve through adaptation and improvisation. Sort of through the turmoil and the opportunities and the incidents of the real world. We call this comic book ""Yes is More,"" which is obviously a sort of evolution of the ideas of some of our heroes. In this case it's Mies van der Rohe's Less is More. He triggered the modernist revolution. After him followed the post-modern counter-revolution, Robert Venturi saying, ""Less is a bore."" After him, Philip Johnson sort of introduced (Laughter) you could say promiscuity, or at least openness to new ideas with, ""I am a whore."" Recently, Obama has introduced optimism at a sort of time of global financial crisis. And what we'd like to say with ""Yes is More"" is basically trying to question this idea that the architectural avant-garde is almost always negatively defined, as who or what we are against. The cliche of the radical architect is the sort of angry young man rebelling against the establishment. Or this idea of the misunderstood genius, frustrated that the world doesn't fit in with his or her ideas. Rather than revolution, we're much more interested in evolution, this idea that things gradually evolve by adapting and improvising to the changes of the world. In fact, I actually think that Darwin is one of the people who best explains our design process. His famous evolutionary tree could almost be a diagram of the way we work. As you can see, a project evolves through a series of generations of design meetings. At each meeting, there's way too many ideas. Only the best ones can survive. And through a process of architectural selection, we might choose a really beautiful model or we might have a very functional model. We mate them. They have sort of mutant offspring. And through these sort of generations of design meetings we arrive at a design. A very literal way of showing it is a project we did for a library and a hotel in Copenhagen. The design process was really tough, almost like a struggle for survival, but gradually an idea evolved: this sort of idea of a rational tower that melts together with the surrounding city, sort of expanding the public space onto what we refer to as a Scandinavian version of the Spanish Steps in Rome, but sort of public on the outside, as well as on the inside, with the library. But Darwin doesn't only explain the evolution of a single idea. As you can see, sometimes a subspecies branches off. And quite often we sit in a design meeting and we discover that there is this great idea. It doesn't really work in this context. But for another client in another culture, it could really be the right answer to a different question. So as a result, we never throw anything out. We keep our office almost like an archive of architectural biodiversity. You never know when you might need it. And what I'd like to do now, in an act of warp-speed storytelling, is tell the story of how two projects evolved by adapting and improvising to the happenstance of the world. The first story starts last year when we went to Shanghai to do the competition for the Danish National Pavilion for the World Expo in 2010. And we saw this guy, Haibao. He's the mascot of the expo, and he looks strangely familiar. In fact he looked like a building we had designed for a hotel in the north of Sweden. When we submitted it for the Swedish competition we thought it was a really cool scheme, but it didn't exactly look like something from the north of Sweden. The Swedish jury didn't think so either. So we lost. But then we had a meeting with a Chinese businessman who saw our design and said, ""Wow, that's the Chinese character for the word 'people.'"" (Laughter) So, apparently this is how you write ""people,"" as in the People's Republic of China. We even double checked. And at the same time, we got invited to exhibit at the Shanghai Creative Industry Week. So we thought like, this is too much of an opportunity, so we hired a feng shui master. We scaled the building up three times to Chinese proportions, and went to China. (Laughter) So the People's Building, as we called it. This is our two interpreters, sort of reading the architecture. It went on the cover of the Wen Wei Po newspaper, which got Mr. Liangyu Chen, the mayor of Shanghai, to visit the exhibition. And we had the chance to explain the project. And he said, ""Shanghai is the city in the world with most skyscrapers,"" but to him it was as if the connection to the roots had been cut over. And with the People's Building, he saw an architecture that could bridge the gap between the ancient wisdom of China and the progressive future of China. So we obviously profoundly agreed with him. (Laughter) (Applause) Unfortunately, Mr. Chen is now in prison for corruption. (Laughter) But like I said, Haibao looked very familiar, because he is actually the Chinese character for ""people."" And they chose this mascot because the theme of the expo is ""Better City, Better Life."" Sustainability. And we thought, sustainability has grown into being this sort of neo-Protestant idea that it has to hurt in order to do good. You know, you're not supposed to take long, warm showers. You're not supposed to fly on holidays because it's bad for the environment. Gradually, you get this idea that sustainable life is less fun than normal life. So we thought that maybe it could be interesting to focus on examples where a sustainable city actually increases the quality of life. We also asked ourselves, what could Denmark possibly show China that would be relevant? You know, it's one of the biggest countries in the world, one of the smallest. China symbolized by the dragon. Denmark, we have a national bird, the swan. (Laughter) China has many great poets, but we discovered that in the People's Republic public school curriculum, they have three fairy tales by An Tu Sheng, or Hans Christian Anderson, as we call him. So that means that all 1.3 billion Chinese have grown up with ""The Emperor's New Clothes,"" ""The Matchstick Girl"" and ""The Little Mermaid."" It's almost like a fragment of Danish culture integrated into Chinese culture. The biggest tourist attraction in China is the Great Wall. The Great Wall is the only thing that can be seen from the moon. The big tourist attraction in Denmark is The Little Mermaid. That can actually hardly be seen from the canal tours. (Laughter) And it sort of shows the difference between these two cities. Copenhagen, Shanghai, modern, European. But then we looked at recent urban development, and we noticed that this is like a Shanghai street, 30 years ago. All bikes, no cars. This is how it looks today; all traffic jam. Bicycles have become forbidden many places. Meanwhile, in Copenhagen we're actually expanding the bicycle lanes. A third of all the people commute by bike. We have a free system of bicycles called the City Bike that you can borrow if you visit the city. So we thought, why don't we reintroduce the bicycle in China? We donate 1,000 bikes to Shanghai. So if you come to the expo, go straight to the Danish pavilion, get a Danish bike, and then continue on that to visit the other pavilions. Like I said, Shanghai and Copenhagen are both port cities, but in Copenhagen the water has gotten so clean that you can actually swim in it. One of the first projects we ever did was the harbor bath in Copenhagen, sort of continuing the public realm into the water. So we thought that these expos quite often have a lot of state financed propaganda, images, statements, but no real experience. So just like with a bike, we don't talk about it. You can try it. Like with the water, instead of talking about it, we're going to sail a million liters of harbor water from Copenhagen to Shanghai, so the Chinese who have the courage can actually dive in and feel how clean it is. This is where people normally object that it doesn't sound very sustainable to sail water from Copenhagen to China. But in fact, the container ships go full of goods from China to Denmark, and then they sail empty back. So quite often you load water for ballast. So we can actually hitch a ride for free. And in the middle of this sort of harbor bath, we're actually going to put the actual Little Mermaid. So the real Mermaid, the real water, and the real bikes. And when she's gone, we're going to invite a Chinese artist to reinterpret her. The architecture of the pavilion is this sort of loop of exhibition and bikes. When you go to the exhibition, you'll see the Mermaid and the pool. You'll walk around, start looking for a bicycle on the roof, jump on your ride and then continue out into the rest of the expo. So when we actually won the competition we had to do an exhibition in China explaining the project. And to our surprise we got one of our boards back with corrections from the Chinese state censorship. The first thing, the China map missed Taiwan. It's a very serious political issue in China. We will add on. The second thing, we had compared the swan to the dragon, and then the Chinese state said, ""Suggest change to panda."" (Laughter) (Applause) So, when it came out in Denmark that we were actually going to move our national monument, the National People's Party sort of rebelled against it. They tried to pass a law against moving the Mermaid. So for the first time, I got invited to speak at the National Parliament. It was kind of interesting because in the morning, from 9 to 11, they were discussing the bailout package — how many billions to invest in saving the Danish economy. And then at 11 o'clock they stopped talking about these little issues. And then from 11 to 1, they were debating whether or not to send the Mermaid to China. (Laughter) (Applause) But to conclude, if you want to see the Mermaid from May to December next year, don't come to Copenhagen, because she's going to be in Shanghai. If you do come to Copenhagen, you will probably see an installation by Ai Weiwei, the Chinese artist. But if the Chinese government intervenes, it might even be a panda. (Laughter) So the second story that I'd like to tell is, actually starts in my own house. This is my apartment. This is the view from my apartment, over the sort of landscape of triangular balconies that our client called the Leonardo DiCaprio balcony. And they form this sort of vertical backyard where, on a nice summer day, you'll actually get introduced to all your neighbors in a vertical radius of 10 meters. The house is sort of a distortion of a square block. Trying to zigzag it to make sure that all of the apartments look at the straight views, instead of into each other. Until recently, this was the view from my apartment, onto this place where our client actually bought the neighbor site. And he said that he was going to do an apartment block next to a parking structure. And we thought, rather than doing a traditional stack of apartments looking straight into a big boring block of cars, why don't we turn all the apartments into penthouses, put them on a podium of cars. And because Copenhagen is completely flat, if you want to have a nice south-facing slope with a view, you basically have to do it yourself. Then we sort of cut up the volume, so we wouldn't block the view from my apartment. (Laughter) And essentially the parking is sort of occupying the deep space underneath the apartments. And up in the sun, you have a single layer of apartments that combine all the splendors of a suburban lifestyle, like a house with a garden with a sort of metropolitan view, and a sort of dense urban location. This is our first architectural model. This is an aerial photo taken last summer. And essentially, the apartments cover the parking. They are accessed through this diagonal elevator. It's actually a stand-up product from Switzerland, because in Switzerland they have a natural need for diagonal elevators. (Laughter) And the facade of the parking, we wanted to make the parking naturally ventilated, so we needed to perforate it. And we discovered that by controlling the size of the holes, we could actually turn the entire facade into a gigantic, naturally ventilated, rasterized image. And since we always refer to the project as The Mountain, we commissioned this Japanese Himalaya photographer to give us this beautiful photo of Mount Everest, making the entire building a 3,000 square meter artwork. (Applause) So if you go back into the parking, into the corridors, it's almost like traveling into a parallel universe from cars and colors, into this sort of south-facing urban oasis. The wood of your apartment continues outside becoming the facades. If you go even further, it turns into this green garden. And all the rainwater that drops on the Mountain is actually accumulated. And there is an automatic irrigation system that makes sure that this sort of landscape of gardens, in one or two years it will sort of transform into a Cambodian temple ruin, completely covered in green. So, the Mountain is like our first built example of what we like to refer to as architectural alchemy. This idea that you can actually create, if not gold, then at least added value by mixing traditional ingredients, like normal apartments and normal parking, and in this case actually offer people the chance that they don't have to choose between a life with a garden or a life in the city. They can actually have both. As an architect, it's really hard to set the agenda. You can't just say that now I'd like to do a sustainable city in central Asia, because that's not really how you get commissions. You always have to sort of adapt and improvise to the opportunities and accidents that happen, and the sort of turmoil of the world. One last example is that recently we, like last summer, we won the competition to design a Nordic national bank. This was the director of the bank when he was still smiling. (Laughter) It was in the middle of the capital so we were really excited by this opportunity. Unfortunately, it was the national bank of Iceland. At the same time, we actually had a visitor — a minister from Azerbaijan came to our office. We took him to see the Mountain. And he got very excited by this idea that you could actually make mountains out of architecture, because Azerbaijan is known as the Alps of Central Asia. So he asked us if we could actually imagine an urban master plan on an island outside the capital that would recreate the silhouette of the seven most significant mountains of Azerbaijan. So we took the commission. And we made this small movie that I'd like to show. We quite often make little movies. We always argue a lot about the soundtrack, but in this case it was really easy to choose the song. So basically, Baku is this sort of crescent bay overlooking the island of Zira, the island that we are planning — almost like the diagram of their flag. And our main idea was to sort of sample the seven most significant mountains of the topography of Azerbaijan and reinterpret them into urban and architectural structures, inhabitable of human life. Then we place these mountains on the island, surrounding this sort of central green valley, almost like a central park. And what makes it interesting is that the island right now is just a piece of desert. It has no vegetation. It has no water. It has no energy, no resources. So we actually sort of designed the entire island as a single ecosystem, exploiting wind energy to drive the desalination plants, and to use the thermal properties of water to heat and cool the buildings. And all the sort of excess freshwater wastewater is filtered organically into the landscape, gradually transforming the desert island into sort of a green, lush landscape. So, you can say where an urban development normally happens at the expense of nature, in this case it's actually creating nature. And the buildings, they don't only sort of invoke the imagery of the mountains, they also operate like mountains. They create shelter from the wind. They accumulate the solar energy. They accumulate the water. So they actually transform the entire island into a single ecosystem. So we recently presented the master plan, and it has gotten approved. And this summer we are starting the construction documents of the two first mountains, in what's going to be the first carbon-neutral island in Central Asia. (Applause) Yes, maybe just to round off. So in a way you can see how the Mountain in Copenhagen sort of evolved into the Seven Peaks of Azerbaijan. With a little luck and some more evolution, maybe in 10 years it could be the Five Mountains on Mars. Thank you. (Applause)"	有關建築的公眾議題常常只注重最後的結果也就是建築物本身人們會問，倫敦最新的大樓是根小黃瓜、香腸還是情趣用品？ 所以最近我們自問是否可以發明一種形式來講解這些案子背後的故事圖文並茂地述說建築的故事後來我們發現我們根本不需要發明只要用漫畫的方式說故事就可以了 於是我們使用漫畫的形式來述說這些背後的故事我們的建築計畫是如何從現實生活中的混亂和機會經過適應來演化和創新我們將這本漫畫命名為“是就是多“很明顯地，這是從一些英雄的點子演化而來 路威．密斯凡德羅一句”少就是多“帶來了現代主義的革命在他之後有對抗現代主義的後現代主義Robert Venturi 的”少就是無聊“在他之後 Philip Johnson 則介紹了（笑聲）你可以用”我是個蕩婦“來形容這種混亂至少是對新想法的開放態度歐巴馬為我們帶來了樂觀主義在這個全球都陷入經濟危機的時刻 當我們說”是就是多“的時候基本上是為了挑戰前衛建築總是在對抗著誰或是什麼的想法對於激進建築的老調看法不過是憤怒的年輕人反抗現狀這種，不被瞭解的天才為了世界無法接受他或她的想法而失落沮喪但與其要談革命，我們對“演化”更有興趣萬物靠著適應和創新逐漸演化來改變世界 事實上，我認為達爾文是最能解釋我們的設計過程的人他名聞遐邇的演化樹能作為解釋我們工作形態的圖表如你所見，一個計畫經過一代代的設計會議演化而成在每個會議中每個人都有自己的想法但只有最好的能夠勝出經過選擇建築的過程我們選擇的可能是一個最美麗的模型或是一個最實際的模型我們組合它們，產生一些突變的結果經過代代演進的設計會議我們來到了最後的設計方案 讓我直接的用我們為哥本哈根的一個圖書館和旅館所做的項目來作為例子設計的過程非常艱苦幾乎像是為生存掙扎但漸漸地，一個方案演化了出來它是一個旋轉的大樓和周圍的城市融合在一起擴大了周圍的公眾空間像是北歐版本的羅馬西班牙階梯不過不止外面是公眾空間，裏面也是公眾可以使用的圖書館 但達爾文的演化論裏面還說到有時候這些變種產生了一些分支很多時候我們坐在一個設計會議裏然後我們發現有個很好的點子卻不是很適合當時的狀況但對於來自于其他文化的另一個客戶的另一個問題，卻很有可能是對的答案結果是，我們保留所有東西讓我們的辦公室變成了一個建築生物多樣性的檔案館你永遠不知道它們什麼時候會派上用場 我現在要做的是以飛快的速度告訴你們兩個專案是如何演進隨著這個世界發生的事情適應和創新第一個故事從去年我們到上海去開始為丹麥在 2010 世界博覽會國家展覽館的項目比賽當我們見到上海世博的吉祥物海寶我們覺得它看起來很面熟事實上它看起來就像我們之前設計的一個建築為了瑞典北部的一個旅館當我們把這個項目送往瑞典的時候我們認為那是一個很酷的設計，但看上去卻似乎不屬於瑞典北部瑞典的評審也不這麼認為，於是我們落選了 但後來我們見到一位中國商人他看著我們的設計，說“哇，這不是我們的”人“字嗎？”（笑聲）顯然這就是中國字“人”的寫法在中國我們甚至再次確認了一次同時，我們也被邀請到上海創意產業周去參展於是我們想，這是個天大的好機會於是我們請了一個風水師把建築變大三倍，變成中國的比例然後出發去中國（笑聲）我們叫他“人大廈”這是我們的口譯員，正在解讀建築 它上了文匯報頭版吸引了上海市長陳良宇來參觀展覽讓我們有機會為他解說他說“上海是一個世界上最多摩天大樓的城市。”但對他來說，卻像是把和根的聯繫剪斷了在“人大廈”上他看見了一個建築可以成為古代中國智慧和未來中國發展的橋樑當然，我們深刻的表示同意（笑聲）（掌聲）不幸的是現在陳先生因為貪污正在坐牢（笑聲） 但如我所說，海寶看上去很眼熟因為它是中國字裏的“人”字它們選擇這個吉祥物的原因是世博的主題是“城市，讓生活更美好”永續性今日，永續性已經變成了一種新教徒式的想法做好事一定得犧牲 像是不應該沖太長時間的熱水澡或是因為環保不應該坐飛機去度假逐漸地你開始感覺永續型的生活沒有辦法像正常生活這麼有趣所以我們想，如果我們可以針對那些因為永續而提升生活品質的城市來作為例子，會很有趣 我們也自問，丹麥有什麼可以展示而且和中國人有關的？一個是世界上最大的國家之一，一個是最小國家之一中國以龍為象徵丹麥，也有國鳥，天鵝（笑聲）中國有許多偉大的詩人 但我們發現在中國人民共和國的小學教材裏有三個安徒生童話故事也就是丹麥的漢斯·克利斯蒂安·安徒生這代表十三億中國人都是看國王的新衣、賣火柴的女孩和小美人魚長大的就像是一個小小的丹麥文化被融入了中國文化中 中國最大的旅遊景點是萬里長城長城是唯一能在月球上看見的人類建築丹麥最大的旅遊景點是小美人魚小的幾乎在觀光遊船上也看不到（笑聲） 這些都代表了兩個城市的差異哥本哈根、上海現代、歐洲但當我們看看最近的城市發展我們發現這就像30年前的上海街頭。全是腳踏車，沒有車現在看起來是這樣，大塞車腳踏車在許多地方是被禁止的 在哥本哈根我們開始擴大腳踏車道三分之一的人以腳踏車代步哥本哈根有個免費腳踏車系統，叫“城市腳踏車”你可以借它拜訪城市的任何一個角落我們想，為什麼不乾脆把腳踏車重新介紹給中國人呢？我們捐贈了一千輛腳踏車給上海當你到上海世博的時候，直接到丹麥館去借一部丹麥腳踏車。然後再繼續去拜訪其他館 上海和哥本哈根都是港口城市但哥本哈根的水非常乾淨乾淨到你可以在裏面游泳我們做的頭幾個項目之一就是哥本哈根港海港浴把公共空間帶進水裏我們覺得這些展覽經常包含了很多國家資助的宣傳影像、文案，但沒有真正的體驗我們希望藉著像腳踏車這樣的東西大家可以自己感覺像水，與其我們在文案裏形容它有多乾淨不如從哥本哈根港口運一百萬公升的水到上海所以有勇氣的中國人可以親身跳下水體驗它到底有多乾淨 這時人們通常都會反映說，把水從哥本哈根運到中國聽上去不太環保但事實上這些船隻裝滿了從中國運到丹麥的貨物回程卻是空的很多時候都需要水來壓艙所以我們只是坐了順風船 在這個海港池水中間我們會把真正的小美人魚銅像放在那裏真正的小美人魚，真正的水，真正的腳踏車當她不在的時候我們會請一個中國的藝術家來重新闡釋她展館建築本身是一個由展覽和腳踏車組成的環形當你到展場時，你會看到小美人魚銅像和水池你會四處走動，開始在屋頂上找腳踏車跳上車繼續去看其他展館 當我們贏得這個項目以後我們得在中國做一個展覽解釋我們的設計理念令我們驚訝的是竟然有一塊展覽說明被退了回來上面有中國審查機構做的修改第一，中國地圖少了臺灣這在中國是一個非常嚴肅的政治問題，我們會加上第二，我們把天鵝和龍做比較於是中國官方寫著“建議改成熊貓”（笑聲）（掌聲） 世博開始以後我們會把這個丹麥國家象徵搬到中國去政府裏人反對這個點子他們嘗試通過一個不許移動小美人魚的法律於是有生以來第一次我被邀請到國家議會去演講這很有趣因為從早上九點到十一點他們在討論新的財政援助要把幾百億振興方案投資在丹麥經濟裏十一點他們停止討論這些小事因為十一點到下午一點他們要辯論是否應該把小美人魚送到中國（笑聲）（掌聲） 結論是，如果明年五月到十一月你想看小美人魚不要到哥本哈根去因為她要去上海如果你到哥本哈根你會看到中國藝術家艾未未的裝置藝術但如果中國政府介入的話也很有可能變成熊貓（笑聲） 我想說的第二個故事是從我自己的房子開始這是我的公寓這是從我公寓看出去的景觀從這些三角形的陽臺上我的客戶稱之為“李奧納多”陽臺它們形成了這個垂直的後院在一個美好的夏天，你可以和你的鄰居自我介紹在十公尺的舉例內這個房子事實上是一個變化的方形互相錯開以確定所有的公寓都能看到景觀而不是看到彼此 所以最近我家的景觀變成了工地直到我們的客戶買了旁邊的空地他說他要蓋一整排的公寓旁邊是停車塔於是我們想與其蓋一組傳統的公寓看向一排排無聊的空車我們何不把所有公寓都變成斜角再把它們放在車子組成的平臺上 因為哥本哈根是完全平坦的如果你想要有個視野良好的南向坡度你只好自己來然後我們再減低一些容量免得擋住我家的視野（笑聲）這些停車場填滿公寓住家底層的空間空間 從太陽的角度看，頂部是一層公寓擁有所有郊區的生活形態像個擁有城市景觀的花園洋房在人口密集的地區這是我們的模型這是我們去年夏天拍攝的空照圖基本上公寓蓋住了停車場你可以乘坐這個的斜的電梯這是一個瑞士的產品因為在瑞士他們需要這種斜角電梯（笑聲） 停車場的正面我們想要讓它可以自然通風於是我們需要在上面打洞我們發現我們可以利用洞的不同大小讓整個立面變成一個巨大的，自然通風的光柵圖像因為我們總是叫這個案件“山嵐”於是我們請一個日本的喜馬拉雅山脈攝影師給我們這張美麗的聖母峰照片把整棟建築變成一個三千平方尺的藝術品（掌聲） 如果你回到停車場，建築裏的走廊就像是在平行宇宙裏走動從這些車子和顏色走進這個南向的城市綠洲公寓裏的原木延伸到外面，成為建築表面再往外去，就走進了這個綠色花園所有從山上來的雨水都聚集起來經過這個自動灑水系統讓這個花園再一兩年內變成柬埔寨的廢棄神殿一樣的綠色城堡 “山嵐”是我們叫做“建築煉金術”的第一個例子想法是你可以創造，就算不是金子至少創造價值，藉著混合傳統元素，像普通公寓和普通停車塔變成這個讓人們不再需要選擇一個綠化的生活或是一個城市的生活而可以同時擁有兩者 身為建築師你很難設定一個改造整個城市的方針你不能說：現在我要來建個永續城市在中亞因為這不是你贏得案子的方法你必須從機會，意外和世界的混亂中適應和創造 上個例子發生在上個夏天，我們贏得了北歐國家銀行的設計案這是銀行總裁 － 在他還笑得出來的時候（笑聲）我們很興奮能贏得這個案子，因為它就在首都的正中心很不幸的那其實是冰島國家銀行 同時有個人來訪問我們一個來自亞塞拜然的部長來到我們的辦公室我們帶他去看“山嵐”他對這個你可以把建築變成山嵐的方法非常興奮因為亞塞拜然被人們稱為中亞的阿爾卑斯於是他問我們是否可以想像一個全面性的都市計畫在這個首都外的小島把亞塞拜然的七座最偉大的山脈描繪出來 於是我們接受了這個計畫我們做了這個小小的影片我們常常做這些影片而且常常為影片的配樂而爭執不過這次倒是很容易決定基本上巴庫是這個半月灣正對這 Zira 島，這次我們計畫的島嶼就像他們的國際形狀一樣我們主要的想法是把亞塞拜然的七個偉大山脈做個測量繪圖然後把這些景觀變成適合人居住的都市和建築構造我們把這些山脈放在島上圍繞著這些中心的綠色山谷就像中央公園 有趣的是現在這個島嶼只是一片沙漠沒有任何植物沒有水源，沒有能源，沒有資源於是我們基本上把整個島設計成一個自然運作的生態系統開發風力來運作淨水系統使用水的熱量來調節建築的溫度這些多出來的乾淨廢水經過地質的自然過濾逐漸地將這個沙漠小島變成一個綠油油的風景 一般人認為都市開發做的就是損壞自然，但在這個例子裏卻是創造自然這些建築不只重新展現這些山景它們的功能也像真正的山它們擋風收集太陽能收集水資源把整座島化為一個獨立的生態系統 我們最近提交了這個計畫而且被通過了這個夏天我們開始動手做頭兩座山的施工圖這將會稱為中亞第一個無碳島（掌聲）做個總結某個程度上你可以看到一個哥本哈根的山嵐如何演化成亞塞拜然的七座山只要一些運氣和一些演化說不定在十年內就是火星的五座山了謝謝（掌聲）
