Talk	en	zh-tw
boaz_almog_levitates_a_superconductor	The phenomenon you saw here for a brief moment is called quantum levitation and quantum locking. And the object that was levitating here is called a superconductor. Superconductivity is a quantum state of matter, and it occurs only below a certain critical temperature. Now, it's quite an old phenomenon; it was discovered 100 years ago. However, only recently, due to several technological advancements, we are now able to demonstrate to you quantum levitation and quantum locking. So, a superconductor is defined by two properties. The first is zero electrical resistance, and the second is the expulsion of a magnetic field from the interior of the superconductor. That sounds complicated, right? But what is electrical resistance? So, electricity is the flow of electrons inside a material. And these electrons, while flowing, they collide with the atoms, and in these collisions they lose a certain amount of energy. And they dissipate this energy in the form of heat, and you know that effect. However, inside a superconductor there are no collisions, so there is no energy dissipation. It's quite remarkable. Think about it. In classical physics, there is always some friction, some energy loss. But not here, because it is a quantum effect. But that's not all, because superconductors don't like magnetic fields. So a superconductor will try to expel magnetic field from the inside, and it has the means to do that by circulating currents. Now, the combination of both effects — the expulsion of magnetic fields and zero electrical resistance — is exactly a superconductor. But the picture isn't always perfect, as we all know, and sometimes strands of magnetic field remain inside the superconductor. Now, under proper conditions, which we have here, these strands of magnetic field can be trapped inside the superconductor. And these strands of magnetic field inside the superconductor, they come in discrete quantities. Why? Because it is a quantum phenomenon. It's quantum physics. And it turns out that they behave like quantum particles. In this movie here, you can see how they flow one by one discretely. This is strands of magnetic field. These are not particles, but they behave like particles. So, this is why we call this effect quantum levitation and quantum locking. But what happens to the superconductor when we put it inside a magnetic field? Well, first there are strands of magnetic field left inside, but now the superconductor doesn't like them moving around, because their movements dissipate energy, which breaks the superconductivity state. So what it actually does, it locks these strands, which are called fluxons, and it locks these fluxons in place. And by doing that, what it actually does is locking itself in place. Why? Because any movement of the superconductor will change their place, will change their configuration. So we get quantum locking. And let me show you how this works. I have here a superconductor, which I wrapped up so it'd stay cold long enough. And when I place it on top of a regular magnet, it just stays locked in midair. (Applause) Now, this is not just levitation. It's not just repulsion. I can rearrange the fluxons, and it will be locked in this new configuration. Like this, or move it slightly to the right or to the left. So, this is quantum locking — actually locking — three-dimensional locking of the superconductor. Of course, I can turn it upside down, and it will remain locked. Now, now that we understand that this so-called levitation is actually locking, Yeah, we understand that. You won't be surprised to hear that if I take this circular magnet, in which the magnetic field is the same all around, the superconductor will be able to freely rotate around the axis of the magnet. Why? Because as long as it rotates, the locking is maintained. You see? I can adjust and I can rotate the superconductor. We have frictionless motion. It is still levitating, but can move freely all around. So, we have quantum locking and we can levitate it on top of this magnet. But how many fluxons, how many magnetic strands are there in a single disk like this? Well, we can calculate it, and it turns out, quite a lot. One hundred billion strands of magnetic field inside this three-inch disk. But that's not the amazing part yet, because there is something I haven't told you yet. And, yeah, the amazing part is that this superconductor that you see here is only half a micron thick. It's extremely thin. And this extremely thin layer is able to levitate more than 70,000 times its own weight. It's a remarkable effect. It's very strong. Now, I can extend this circular magnet, and make whatever track I want. For example, I can make a large circular rail here. And when I place the superconducting disk on top of this rail, it moves freely. (Applause) And again, that's not all. I can adjust its position like this, and rotate, and it freely moves in this new position. And I can even try a new thing; let's try it for the first time. I can take this disk and put it here, and while it stays here — don't move — I will try to rotate the track, and hopefully, if I did it correctly, it stays suspended. (Applause) You see, it's quantum locking, not levitation. Now, while I'll let it circulate for a little more, let me tell you a little bit about superconductors. Now — (Laughter) — So we now know that we are able to transfer enormous amount of currents inside superconductors, so we can use them to produce strong magnetic fields, such as needed in MRI machines, particle accelerators and so on. But we can also store energy using superconductors, because we have no dissipation. And we could also produce power cables, to transfer enormous amounts of current between power stations. Imagine you could back up a single power station with a single superconducting cable. But what is the future of quantum levitation and quantum locking? Well, let me answer this simple question by giving you an example. Imagine you would have a disk similar to the one I have here in my hand, three-inch diameter, with a single difference. The superconducting layer, instead of being half a micron thin, being two millimeters thin, quite thin. This two-millimeter-thin superconducting layer could hold 1,000 kilograms, a small car, in my hand. Amazing. Thank you. (Applause)	在這瞬間你看到的現象，稱作量子懸浮和量子鎖定。而這個懸浮中的物體是超導體。超導現象是物質的量子物理狀態，它只會在低於特定的溫度時發生。 其實超導體現象存在已久；大約在一百年前就被發現了。不過，依賴於最近的技術進步(譯按:是說高溫超導體)我們才可以在此展示量子懸浮和量子鎖定。 超導體具有兩種特徵。其一是零電阻，其二是內部抗磁性。聽起來很複雜,對嗎?何謂電阻?電力是電子在物質中流動,電子流動時會與原子碰撞，而這些碰撞會使電子失去部份能量失去的能量會轉換成為熱，此謂之電阻可是，在超導體中不會有此類碰撞，於是沒有能量流失。 這相當不平常。試想想。在古典物理學界，摩擦與能量流失無處不在。但因為這是量子物理現象，所以不存在摩擦和能量損失。除此之外，因為超導體不喜歡磁場，超導體會通過使電流循環流動，而從其內部盡量把磁場排除。具備以上兩種特徵，零電阻和內部抗磁性，就是超導體。 大家知道，事情並不總是完美的，有時候，一點點磁場會殘留在超導體內部。在適當的條件下，就如這裡可見，這些殘留的磁場會被困在超導體裡。而且這些殘留的磁場是離散量，即不是連續的。為什麼？ 因為這是量子現象，量子物理。它的行為就如量子一樣。 從影片可見，它一個個分開地移動。它是磁場，而非粒子，但行為就如粒子一樣。這就是為什麼這個現象叫量子懸浮和量子鎖定。 若將超導體置入一個磁場中會發生甚麼事呢?嗯，首先是我們知道還有一些游離的磁場殘留在其中，但是超導體不會讓他們隨便移動因為移動就會有能量流失，也就是說會破壞超導狀態。所以超導體此時就會將這幾束所謂的磁通量子（磁場束）鎖定將其固定在一個位置上如此一來，超導體自己也會被固定住。為什麼呢?因為超導體的任何移動都會改變這些磁通量子的位置，也就改變了其格局。 這就是量子鎖定的由來。現在就讓我們來一探究竟，現在我這裡有一個超導體，事前已經用液氮包了起來，這樣它可以保持在低溫的狀態足夠久。當我將它放置在一個一般的磁鐵上時，它就這樣鎖定在半空中。 (掌聲) 現在，這既不僅是懸浮，也不僅是排斥作用。我可以改變這些磁通量子的位置，它會被鎖定在新的格局裡。就像這樣，或者是讓它偏左或偏右一點。這就是量子鎖定—真正的鎖定—超導體的三維鎖定。當然，我也可以把這個鎖定的格局翻過來，超導體仍然被鎖定在原來的位置。 現在我們已經知道所謂的懸浮其實是鎖定，對，我們確實知道。不難想像，如果我用一個各面磁場都均一的環狀磁鐵（來鎖定超導體），超導體會圍繞着這個磁鐵的中軸自由旋轉。為什麼？因為只要超導體保持旋轉，就可以維持鎖定的狀態。看到了嗎？我也可以調節，也可以轉超導體。這是沒有磨擦力的運動。仍然是懸浮，但是（超導體）可以自由地移動。 這就是量子鎖定，而我們可以讓超導體懸浮在磁鐵的上方。不過，這樣一個圓盤到底有多少磁通量子，多少磁場條呢？嗯，我們可以計算出來，結果是，非常多。在這個3英寸直徑的圓盤裡，有100億條磁場。 這還不是最驚人的部分，因為最驚人的我還沒告訴你。最驚人的是，這個你現在看到的超導體，只有一微米厚，非常地薄。而這個超薄的超導體可以懸浮起其自身重量70,000倍的物體。這是非常不尋常的事。它非常強壯。 接下來，我把這個環形的磁鐵延伸，把它做成任何我想要的軌道。比如說，我可以做一個像這樣的大圓環軌道。然後，當我把這個超導體圓盤放到軌道上方時，它會自由地（沿著軌道）移動。 （掌聲） 而且，除此之外，我還可以調節它的位置，像這樣，然後旋轉，它仍會在其新的位置上自由移動。我甚至可以試試我還沒有試過的變化；我可以把這個超導體放在這裡，在它鎖定後—別動—我要試著把這個磁鐵軌道翻過來，希望，如果我沒錯的話，它會仍然懸浮。 （掌聲） 各位，這就是量子鎖定，不是懸浮。接下來，在它繼續轉的時候，我要再告訴你一些關於超導體的其他事情。現在—（笑聲）—我們現在知道我們可以在超導體內傳導巨大的電流，我們可以用超導體來產生強大的磁場，如磁共振成像儀，粒子加速器等所需的巨大磁場。我們也可以用超導體儲存能量，因為沒有能量耗散。 我們也可以用超導體製造電纜，在電站間運送電流。想像一下，你可以用一根超導電纜來給一整個電站供電。那麼，量子懸浮和量子鎖定的未來是什麼？嗯，讓我舉個例子來回答這個簡單的問題。想像你有像我這樣的一個圓盤在手裡，3英寸直徑，唯一不同的是，這個超導片不是一微米厚，而是兩毫米厚，仍然很薄。這個兩毫米厚的超導片可以在我手裡舉起1000公斤，一輛小車。很驚人吧。謝謝 （掌聲）
