Talk	en	zh-tw
bobby_ghosh_why_global_jihad_is_losing	"I'm going to talk about the power of a word: jihad. To the vast majority of practicing Muslims, jihad is an internal struggle for the faith. It is a struggle within, a struggle against vice, sin, temptation, lust, greed. It is a struggle to try and live a life that is set by the moral codes written in the Koran. In that original idea, the concept of jihad is as important to Muslims as the idea of grace is to Christians. It's a very powerful word, jihad, if you look at it in that respect, and there's a certain almost mystical resonance to it. And that's the reason why, for hundreds of years, Muslims everywhere have named their children Jihad, their daughters as much as their sons, in the same way that, say, Christians name their daughters Grace, and Hindus, my people, name our daughters Bhakti, which means, in Sanskrit, spiritual worship. But there have always been, in Islam, a small group, a minority, who believe that jihad is not only an internal struggle but also an external struggle against forces that would threaten the faith, or the faithul. And some of these people believe that in that struggle, it is sometimes okay to take up arms. And so the thousands of young Muslim men who flocked to Afghanistan in the 1980s to fight against the Soviet occupation of a Muslim country, in their minds they were fighting a jihad, they were doing jihad, and they named themselves the Mujahideen, which is a word that comes from the same root as jihad. And we forget this now, but back then the Mujahideen were celebrated in this country, in America. We thought of them as holy warriors who were taking the good fight to the ungodly communists. America gave them weapons, gave them money, gave them support, encouragement. But within that group, a tiny, smaller group, a minority within a minority within a minority, were coming up with a new and dangerous conception of jihad, and in time this group would come to be led by Osama bin Laden, and he refined the idea. His idea of jihad was a global war of terror, primarily targeted at the far enemy, at the crusaders from the West, against America. And the things he did in the pursuit of this jihad were so horrendous, so monstrous, and had such great impact, that his definition was the one that stuck, not just here in the West. We didn't know any better. We didn't pause to ask. We just assumed that if this insane man and his psychopathic followers were calling what they did jihad, then that's what jihad must mean. But it wasn't just us. Even in the Muslim world, his definition of jihad began to gain acceptance. A year ago I was in Tunis, and I met the imam of a very small mosque, an old man. Fifteen years ago, he named his granddaughter Jihad, after the old meaning. He hoped that a name like that would inspire her to live a spiritual life. But he told me that after 9/11, he began to have second thoughts. He worried that if he called her by that name, especially outdoors, outside in public, he might be seen as endorsing bin Laden's idea of jihad. On Fridays in his mosque, he gave sermons trying to reclaim the meaning of the word, but his congregants, the people who came to his mosque, they had seen the videos. They had seen pictures of the planes going into the towers, the towers coming down. They had heard bin Laden say that that was jihad, and claimed victory for it. And so the old imam worried that his words were falling on deaf ears. No one was paying attention. He was wrong. Some people were paying attention, but for the wrong reasons. The United States, at this point, was putting pressure on all its Arab allies, including Tunisia, to stamp out extremism in their societies, and this imam found himself suddenly in the crosshairs of the Tunisian intelligence service. They had never paid him any attention before — old man, small mosque — but now they began to pay visits, and sometimes they would drag him in for questions, and always the same question: ""Why did you name your granddaughter Jihad? Why do you keep using the word jihad in your Friday sermons? Do you hate Americans? What is your connection to Osama bin Laden?"" So to the Tunisian intelligence agency, and organizations like it all over the Arab world, jihad equaled extremism, Bin Laden's definition had become institutionalized. That was the power of that word that he was able to do. And it filled this old imam, it filled him with great sadness. He told me that, of bin Laden's many crimes, this was, in his mind, one that didn't get enough attention, that he took this word, this beautiful idea. He didn't so much appropriate it as kidnapped it and debased it and corrupted it and turned it into something it was never meant to be, and then persuaded all of us that it always was a global jihad. But the good news is that the global jihad is almost over, as bin Laden defined it. It was dying well before he did, and now it's on its last legs. Opinion polls from all over the Muslim world show that there is very little interest among Muslims in a global holy war against the West, against the far enemy. The supply of young men willing to fight and die for this cause is dwindling. The supply of money — just as important, more important perhaps — the supply of money to this activity is also dwindling. The wealthy fanatics who were previously sponsoring this kind of activity are now less generous. What does that mean for us in the West? Does it mean we can break out the champagne, wash our hands of it, disengage, sleep easy at night? No. Disengagement is not an option, because if you let local jihad survive, it becomes international jihad. And so there's now a lot of different violent jihads all over the world. In Somalia, in Mali, in Nigeria, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, Pakistan, there are groups that claim to be the inheritors of the legacy of Osama bin Laden. They use his rhetoric. They even use the brand name he created for his jihad. So there is now an al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, there's an al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, there is an al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. There are other groups — in Nigeria, Boko Haram, in Somalia, al Shabaab — and they all pay homage to Osama bin Laden. But if you look closely, they're not fighting a global jihad. They're fighting battles over much narrower issues. Usually it has to do with ethnicity or race or sectarianism, or it's a power struggle. More often than not, it's a power struggle in one country, or even a small region within one country. Occasionally they will go across a border, from Iraq to Syria, from Mali to Algeria, from Somalia to Kenya, but they're not fighting a global jihad against some far enemy. But that doesn't mean that we can relax. I was in Yemen recently, where — it's the home of the last al Qaeda franchise that still aspires to attack America, attack the West. It's old school al Qaeda. You may remember these guys. They are the ones who tried to send the underwear bomber here, and they were using the Internet to try and instigate violence among American Muslims. But they have been distracted recently. Last year, they took control over a portion of southern Yemen, and ran it, Taliban-style. And then the Yemeni military got its act together, and ordinary people rose up against these guys and drove them out, and since then, most of their activities, most of their attacks have been directed at Yemenis. So I think we've come to a point now where we can say that, just like all politics, all jihad is local. But that's still not reason for us to disengage, because we've seen that movie before, in Afghanistan. When those Mujahideen defeated the Soviet Union, we disengaged. And even before the fizz had gone out of our celebratory champagne, the Taliban had taken over in Kabul, and we said, ""Local jihad, not our problem."" And then the Taliban gave the keys of Kandahar to Osama bin Laden. He made it our problem. Local jihad, if you ignore it, becomes global jihad again. The good news is that it doesn't have to be. We know how to fight it now. We have the tools. We have the knowhow, and we can take the lessons we've learned from the fight against global jihad, the victory against global jihad, and apply those to local jihad. What are those lessons? We know who killed bin Laden: SEAL Team Six. Do we know, do we understand, who killed bin Ladenism? Who ended the global jihad? There lie the answers to the solution to local jihad. Who killed bin Ladenism? Let's start with bin Laden himself. He probably thought 9/11 was his greatest achievement. In reality, it was the beginning of the end for him. He killed 3,000 innocent people, and that filled the Muslim world with horror and revulsion, and what that meant was that his idea of jihad could never become mainstream. He condemned himself to operating on the lunatic fringes of his own community. 9/11 didn't empower him; it doomed him. Who killed bin Ladenism? Abu Musab al-Zarqawi killed it. He was the especially sadistic head of al Qaeda in Iraq who sent hundreds of suicide bombers to attack not Americans but Iraqis. Muslims. Sunni as well as Shiites. Any claim that al Qaeda had to being protectors of Islam against the Western crusaders was drowned in the blood of Iraqi Muslims. Who killed Osama bin Laden? The SEAL Team Six. Who killed bin Ladenism? Al Jazeera did, Al Jazeera and half a dozen other satellite news stations in Arabic, because they circumvented the old, state-owned television stations in a lot of these countries which were designed to keep information from people. Al Jazeera brought information to them, showed them what was being said and done in the name of their religion, exposed the hypocrisy of Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda, and allowed them, gave them the information that allowed them to come to their own conclusions. Who killed bin Ladenism? The Arab Spring did, because it showed a way for young Muslims to bring about change in a manner that Osama bin Laden, with his limited imagination, could never have conceived. Who defeated the global jihad? The American military did, the American soldiers did, with their allies, fighting in faraway battlefields. And perhaps, a time will come when they get the rightful credit for it. So all these factors, and many more besides, we don't even fully understand some of them yet, these came together to defeat a monstrosity as big as bin Ladenism, the global jihad, you needed this group effort. Now, not all of these things will work in local jihad. The American military is not going to march into Nigeria to take on Boko Haram, and it's unlikely that SEAL Team Six will rappel into the homes of al Shabaab's leaders and take them out. But many of these other factors that were in play are now even stronger than before. Half the work is already done. We don't have to reinvent the wheel. The notion of violent jihad in which more Muslims are killed than any other kind of people is already thoroughly discredited. We don't have to go back to that. Satellite television and the Internet are informing and empowering young Muslims in exciting new ways. And the Arab Spring has produced governments, many of them Islamist governments, who know that, for their own self-preservation, they need to take on the extremists in their midsts. We don't need to persuade them, but we do need to help them, because they haven't really come to this place before. The good news, again, is that a lot of the things they need we already have, and we are very good at giving: economic assistance, not just money, but expertise, technology, knowhow, private investment, fair terms of trade, medicine, education, technical support for training for their police forces to become more effective, for their anti-terror forces to become more efficient. We've got plenty of these things. Some of the other things that they need we're not very good at giving. Maybe nobody is. Time, patience, subtlety, understanding — these are harder to give. I live in New York now. Just this week, posters have gone up in subway stations in New York that describe jihad as savage. But in all the many years that I have covered the Middle East, I have never been as optimistic as I am today that the gap between the Muslim world and the West is narrowing fast, and one of the many reasons for my optimism is that, because I know there are millions, hundreds of millions of people, Muslims like that old imam in Tunis, who are reclaiming this word and restoring to its original, beautiful purpose. Bin Laden is dead. Bin Ladenism has been defeated. His definition of jihad can now be expunged. To that jihad we can say, ""Goodbye. Good riddance."" To the real jihad we can say, ""Welcome back. Good luck."" Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想談談一個字的力量聖戰 對大多數的穆斯林來說聖戰代表為了信仰的內在修煉在內心中的掙扎，與缺陷、罪惡誘惑、慾望還有貪婪奮鬥想盡辦法過著一個依循可蘭經規範的生活原先，聖戰之於穆斯林的重要性大致如恩典之於基督徒聖戰是個極具力量的字眼，如果你對此抱持敬意你會發現它有著神秘的共振而這也是為什麼數百年來各地的穆斯林以吉哈得 (Jihad) 為他們的孩子命名無論男孩女孩，就如同基督徒將女兒取名為葛麗絲 (Grace)和我一樣的印度教徒，將女兒取名為芭克蒂 (Bhakti)也就是梵語中潛心信奉的意思 但在伊斯蘭教中總有一小群人這群少數相信聖戰不只是內在修煉，也是外在奮鬥對抗威脅信仰及虔信者的事物而這些人裡，有一部分人相信這種奮鬥有時是可以使用武力的所以數以千計的年輕穆斯林男性在1980年代湧入阿富汗為了抵抗蘇聯佔領穆斯林國家在他們心中，這是一場聖戰他們正在進行聖戰所以他們自稱聖戰者 (Mujahideen)字源和聖戰 (jihad) 一致現在大多數人都忘記了，但那時候聖戰者在這個國家—也就是美國，為此慶祝我們認為他們是神聖的戰士與邪惡的共產主義對抗美國供給他們武器和資金提供支援和鼓勵 但在其中的一小群人少數人中的極少數想出了一個全新又危險的對於聖戰的定義這個團體不久後由奧薩馬賓拉登領導他重新定義聖戰在他的想法中，聖戰是全球恐怖戰爭針對遙遠的敵人西方來的十字軍，對抗美國而他為追求聖戰所做的一切是如此駭人而影響深遠使他的定義根深蒂固於西方以及世上其他地方我們不知道到底是怎麼回事，也沒停下來思索只是假設如果這個瘋子和他的病態追隨者們稱他們所做的事情為聖戰，那這就是聖戰了不是只有我們這麼想，在穆斯林世界裡這個聖戰的意義逐漸為人所接受 一年前我在突尼斯遇見遇見一個小清真寺的阿訇，一個老人十五年前，他將自己的孫女命名為吉哈得 (Jihad)以古老的定義命名，他希望這個名字能激勵她追求精神生活但他告訴我，在九一一後他的想法開始改變了他很擔心，如果他以這個名字稱呼她尤其是在戶外，在公共場合其他人可能會覺得他認同賓拉登的聖戰而他在週五清真寺的佈道中試著還原這個字眼的本來面貌但聚會者，這些來清真寺的人們看過那些影像和照片飛機衝入大樓，然後大樓崩塌他們也聽到賓拉登稱這種舉動為聖戰而且自稱他們戰勝了。老阿訇很擔心人們聽不進他的話，沒有人在注意 但他錯了，有些人在注意他卻是基於錯誤的理由在當時的美國，正在對所有的阿拉伯盟友施壓，包括突尼西亞要他們把社會裡的極端份子揪出來所以阿訇發現他已經成了突尼西亞情報局的目標他們從來未曾注意過阿訇一個在小清真寺的老人但他們開始時常來訪有時甚至會把他拖去問話問題總是""你為何將自己的孫女命名為吉哈得""為什麼你在週五佈道中常常提到聖戰這個字眼你恨美國人嗎？你和奧薩瑪賓拉登是什麼關係？ 對突尼西亞情報局還有其他阿拉伯世界的類似組織來說聖戰等同於極端主義賓拉登的定義已經約定俗成那是他所能達成的，代表這個字眼的力量而使得老阿訇內心充滿悲傷他告訴我，賓拉登所犯下的罪行中他認為大家都忽略了這一點他把這個字以及所代表的良善想法拿走了他幾乎是綁架了它貶低並且以訛傳訛讓它轉變為原先並未指涉的事物並且說服所有人這一直都是一場全球聖戰 但好消息是依照賓拉登的定義，全球聖戰已經幾乎結束了在他發起前就已奄奄一息而現在只是迴光返照整個穆斯林世界的意見調查顯示穆斯林間對於向西方世界發起全球聖戰對抗遠方的敵人興趣缺缺願意為此戰鬥付出生命的年輕人不斷減少也許更重要的是，資金援助對於聖戰活動的資金援助也正在減少有錢的狂熱份子先前資助這種活動的金主，已經不再慷慨了 這對我們西方人又意味著什麼呢？這代表我們可以開香檳金盆洗手，從中脫身然後高枕無憂了嗎？不，撤出戰場是行不通的因為如果你允許區域聖戰存在的話總有一天這會變成全球聖戰所以現在衍生出各種不同的暴力聖戰，這個世界上到處都是在索馬利亞、馬利、奈及利亞伊拉克、阿富汗還有巴基斯坦，都有組織聲稱他們繼承了奧薩馬賓拉登的信念利用他的巧言甚至還借用他為聖戰所命的品牌所以現在伊斯蘭馬格里布（非洲西北部）有基地組織阿拉伯半島有基地組織美索不達米亞也有基地組織類似團體，像在奈及利亞的博科聖地還有索馬利亞的青年黨，都尊崇奧薩馬賓拉登但如果你仔細觀察他們並不是在打全球聖戰他們為更小的議題鬥爭通常是和道德、種族、宗派或權力鬥爭有關大多數是權力鬥爭在一個國家內，或是國內的一個小區域有時他們會穿越國界從伊拉克到敘利亞、或從馬利到阿爾及利亞還有從索馬利亞到肯亞，但他們沒在打全球聖戰，對抗遙遠的敵人 不過這並不表示我們可以鬆懈下來我最近去了葉門，那裡是最後一個基地衍生組織的根據地依然渴望攻擊美國和西方這是老派的基地組織你搞不好還記得這些人他們就是試著寄內衣炸彈還有用網路嘗試挑撥、煽動美國穆斯林行使暴力的那群人但最近他們轉移目標了去年他們掌控了葉門南部的一部分用神學士的方式治理然後葉門軍方展開行動平民站出來反抗這些人驅逐他們，從那以後大部分的活動還有大部分的攻擊都是針對葉門當地 所以我想我們已經到了可以說就像政治一樣，聖戰地區化但我們並不能因此退出因為我們看過這段情節，在阿富汗當聖戰士打敗蘇聯時我們毫不在意甚至當我們的香檳氣泡還沒噴出來時神學士已經控制喀布爾了我們說，這只是區域聖戰，與我們無關而當神學士將坎大哈的鑰匙給了奧薩馬賓拉登時，他成了我們的問題如果你忽略這些區域聖戰，它總有一天會擴大到全球 好消息是這是可以避免的我們已經知道怎樣對抗有工具，也有相關知識更從過去學到教訓從對抗全球聖戰，以及對抗的勝利中知道如何在區域聖戰中應用 那些教訓是什麼呢？我們知道誰殺了賓拉登是海軍特戰開發小組但我們明白是誰殺了賓拉登主義嗎？誰終結了全球聖戰？解決區域聖戰的關鍵就藏在其中 誰殺了賓拉登主義？首先得談談賓拉登其人他大概以為911是他最大的成就實際上那是他走向敗亡的起點他殺了三千名無辜民眾，這使得穆斯林世界充滿恐懼與反感這就表示他心中的聖戰絕不會成為主流他咎由自取，因為他驅使他族群中瘋狂的少數份子911並未給他更多力量，反而使他毀滅 誰殺了賓拉登主義？Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 殺的他是伊拉克基地組織首領中最嗜血的一個他派出數以百計的自殺炸彈客不只攻擊美國人，也攻擊伊拉克人不論是遜尼還是什葉信徒聲稱基地組織是伊斯蘭的保護者對抗西方十字軍的這種說法都淹沒在伊拉克穆斯林的血中 誰殺了奧薩馬賓拉登？是海軍特戰開發小組誰殺了賓拉登主義？是半島電視台半島電視台還有數個在阿拉伯地區的衛星電視台他們規避了舊有的國營電視台在大多數這些國家中國營電視台是設計來阻止人們得到資訊半島電視台將訊息帶給民眾，讓他們看到以他們的信仰為名，作出了什麼事情揭發奧薩馬賓拉登和基地組織的偽善給他們資訊，使得他們能夠自行判斷 誰殺了賓拉登主義？是阿拉伯之春因為那讓年輕穆斯林知道，有方法可以改變現狀以奧薩馬賓拉登有限的想像力絕對無法想到的方式改變 誰打敗了全球聖戰？是美國軍隊美國士兵和他們的盟軍在遙遠的戰場作戰也許假以時日他們將會得到應有的評價 所以這些因素，還有其他許多我們甚至對部份因素還未完全了解當這些因素聚集時打敗像是賓拉登主義這樣的怪物還有全球聖戰，需要這樣的集體合作 現在，不是所有這些都能用在區域聖戰上美國軍隊無法進入奈及利亞對抗博科聖地海軍特戰開發小組也不大可能垂降到青年黨首領的家中把他們揪出來 但其他很多檯面上的因素已經比從前更有利，大半的工作已經完成不需要推倒重來暴力聖戰的概念，也就是讓穆斯林死傷遠超過其他所有人的，已經失去民心了我們不用走回老路衛星電視和網路提供資訊用令人興奮的新方法給年輕穆斯林力量而阿拉伯之春也產生了政府很多是伊斯蘭政府他們明白，如果想保護自己他們得面對國內的極端份子我們不用說服他們，但他們需要我們的協助因為他們未從走到這一步 又一個好消息是，他們需要的這些事情裡很多是我們具備的，也知道如何給予：像經濟援助，不止是金錢，而是專業技術與知識私人投資、公平貿易醫藥、教育、技術支援訓練使警方能更有效率也使他們的反恐武力更有效率我們有很多類似這樣的東西 而有些他們所需的我們給不了，也許沒有人能給時間、耐心、靈活度以及理解這些是難以付出的我現在住紐約，就在這週紐約地鐵上貼著海報說聖戰是野蠻的 但從我在中東採訪的這麼多年來我從未像今日這樣樂觀穆斯林世界和西方世界的差距正在快速縮短而讓我感到樂觀的一個因素是我知道有上萬個成千上萬的人，像是突尼西亞老阿訇這樣的穆斯林正在收復聖戰這個字眼並讓它恢復原有的良善意味賓拉登已死，而他的想法也已落敗抹殺他的聖戰定義我們可以對那個聖戰說：再見，總算擺脫你了而對真正的聖戰說：歡迎回來，祝您好運謝謝"
