Talk	en	zh-tw
bono_the_good_news_on_poverty_yes_there_s_good_news	"Chris Anderson asked me if I could put the last 25 years of anti-poverty campaigning into 10 minutes for TED. That's an Englishman asking an Irishman to be succinct. (Laughter) I said, ""Chris, that would take a miracle."" He said, ""Bono, wouldn't that be a good use of your messianic complex?"" So, yeah. Then I thought, let's go even further than 25 years. Let's go back before Christ, three millennia, to a time when, at least in my head, the journey for justice, the march against inequality and poverty really began. Three thousand years ago, civilization just getting started on the banks of the Nile, some slaves, Jewish shepherds in this instance, smelling of sheep shit, I guess, proclaimed to the Pharaoh, sitting high on his throne, ""We, your majesty-ness, are equal to you."" And the Pharaoh replies, ""Oh, no. You, your miserableness, have got to be kidding."" And they say, ""No, no, that's what it says here in our holy book."" Cut to our century, same country, same pyramids, another people spreading the same idea of equality with a different book. This time it's called the Facebook. Crowds are gathered in Tahrir Square. They turn a social network from virtual to actual, and kind of rebooted the 21st century. Not to undersell how messy and ugly the aftermath of the Arab Spring has been, neither to oversell the role of technology, but these things have given a sense of what's possible when the age-old model of power, the pyramid, gets turned upside down, putting the people on top and the pharaohs of today on the bottom, as it were. It's also shown us that something as powerful as information and the sharing of it can challenge inequality, because facts, like people, want to be free, and when they're free, liberty is usually around the corner, even for the poorest of the poor — facts that can challenge cynicism and the apathy that leads to inertia, facts that tell us what's working and, more importantly, what's not, so we can fix it, facts that if we hear them and heed them could help us meet the challenge that Nelson Mandela made back in 2005, when he asked us to be that great generation that overcomes that most awful offense to humanity, extreme poverty, facts that build a powerful momentum. So I thought, forget the rock opera, forget the bombast, my usual tricks. The only thing singing today would be the facts, for I have truly embraced by inner nerd. So exit the rock star. Enter the evidence-based activist, the factivist. Because what the facts are telling us is that the long, slow journey, humanity's long, slow journey of equality, is actually speeding up. Look at what's been achieved. Look at the pictures these data sets print. Since the year 2000, since the turn of the millennium, there are eight million more AIDS patients getting life-saving antiretroviral drugs. Malaria: There are eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa that have their death rates cut by 75 percent. For kids under five, child mortality, kids under five, it's down by 2.65 million a year. That's a rate of 7,256 children's lives saved each day. Wow. Wow. (Applause) Let's just stop for a second, actually, and think about that. Have you read anything anywhere in the last week that is remotely as important as that number? Wow. Great news. It drives me nuts that most people don't seem to know this news. Seven thousand kids a day. Here's two of them. This is Michael and Benedicta, and they're alive thanks in large part to Dr. Patricia Asamoah — she's amazing — and the Global Fund, which all of you financially support, whether you know it or not. And the Global Fund provides antiretroviral drugs that stop mothers from passing HIV to their kids. This fantastic news didn't happen by itself. It was fought for, it was campaigned for, it was innovated for. And this great news gives birth to even more great news, because the historic trend is this. The number of people living in back-breaking, soul-crushing extreme poverty has declined from 43 percent of the world's population in 1990 to 33 percent by 2000 and then to 21 percent by 2010. Give it up for that. (Applause) Halved. Halved. Now, the rate is still too high — still too many people unnecessarily losing their lives. There's still work to do. But it's heart-stopping. It's mind-blowing stuff. And if you live on less than $1.25 a day, if you live in that kind of poverty, this is not just data. This is everything. If you're a parent who wants the best for your kids — and I am — this rapid transition is a route out of despair and into hope. And guess what? If the trajectory continues, look where the amount of people living on $1.25 a day gets to by 2030. Can't be true, can it? That's what the data is telling us. If the trajectory continues, we get to, wow, the zero zone. For number-crunchers like us, that is the erogenous zone, and it's fair to say that I am, by now, sexually aroused by the collating of data. So virtual elimination of extreme poverty, as defined by people living on less than $1.25 a day, adjusted, of course, for inflation from a 1990 baseline. We do love a good baseline. That's amazing. Now I know that some of you think this progress is all in Asia or Latin America or model countries like Brazil — and who doesn't love a Brazilian model? — but look at sub-Saharan Africa. There's a collection of 10 countries, some call them the lions, who in the last decade have had a combination of 100 percent debt cancellation, a tripling of aid, a tenfold increase in FDI — that's foreign direct investment — which has unlocked a quadrupling of domestic resources — that's local money — which, when spent wisely — that's good governance — cut childhood mortality by a third, doubled education completion rates, and they, too, halved extreme poverty, and at this rate, these 10 get to zero too. So the pride of lions is the proof of concept. There are all kinds of benefits to this. For a start, you won't have to listen to an insufferable little jumped-up Jesus like myself. How about that? (Applause) And 2028, 2030? It's just around the corner. I mean, it's about three Rolling Stones farewell concerts away. (Laughter) I hope. I'm hoping. Makes us look really young. So why aren't we jumping up and down about this? Well, the opportunity is real, but so is the jeopardy. We can't get this done until we really accept that we can get this done. Look at this graph. It's called inertia. It's how we screw it up. And the next one is really beautiful. It's called momentum. And it's how we can bend the arc of history down towards zero, just doing the things that we know work. So inertia versus momentum. There is jeopardy, and of course, the closer you get, it gets harder. We know the obstacles that are in our way right now, in difficult times. In fact, today in your capital, in difficult times, some who mind the nation's purse want to cut life-saving programs like the Global Fund. But you can do something about that. You can tell politicians that these cuts [can cost] lives. Right now today, in Oslo as it happens, oil companies are fighting to keep secret their payments to governments for extracting oil in developing countries. You can do something about that too. You can join the One Campaign, and leaders like Mo Ibrahim, the telecom entrepreneur. We're pushing for laws that make sure that at least some of the wealth under the ground ends up in the hands of the people living above it. And right now, we know that the biggest disease of all is not a disease. It's corruption. But there's a vaccine for that too. It's called transparency, open data sets, something the TED community is really on it. Daylight, you could call it, transparency. And technology is really turbocharging this. It's getting harder to hide if you're doing bad stuff. So let me tell you about the U-report, which I'm really excited about. It's 150,000 millennials all across Uganda, young people armed with 2G phones, an SMS social network exposing government corruption and demanding to know what's in the budget and how their money is being spent. This is exciting stuff. Look, once you have these tools, you can't not use them. Once you have this knowledge, you can't un-know it. You can't delete this data from your brain, but you can delete the cliched image of supplicant, impoverished peoples not taking control of their own lives. You can erase that, you really can, because it's not true anymore. (Applause) It's transformational. 2030? By 2030, robots, not just serving us Guinness, but drinking it. By the time we get there, every place with a rough semblance of governance might actually be on their way. So I'm here to — I guess we're here to try and infect you with this virtuous, data-based virus, the one we call factivism. It's not going to kill you. In fact, it could save countless lives. I guess we in the One Campaign would love you to be contagious, spread it, share it, pass it on. By doing so, you will join us and countless others in what I truly believe is the greatest adventure ever taken, the ever-demanding journey of equality. Could we really be the great generation that Mandela asked us to be? Might we answer that clarion call with science, with reason, with facts, and, dare I say it, emotions? Because as is obvious, factivists have feelings too. I'm thinking of Wael Ghonim, though. Some of you know him. He set up one of the Facebook groups behind the Tahrir Square in Cairo. He got thrown in jail for it, but I have his words tattooed on my brain. ""We are going to win because we don't understand politics. We are going to win because we don't play their dirty games. We are going to win because we don't have a party political agenda. We are going to win because the tears that come from our eyes actually come from our hearts. We are going to win because we have dreams, and we're willing to stand up for those dreams."" Wael is right. We're going to win if we work together as one, because the power of the people is so much stronger than the people in power. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you so much. (Applause)"	"Chris Anderson(作家，以長尾理論著名) 詢問我是否可以將過去25年來對抗貧窮的運動濃縮成10分鐘的TED講座。一個英國人竟然要求一個愛爾蘭人長話短說。 (笑聲) 我說 : "" Chris啊，除非有奇蹟發生 。"" 他說 : "" BONO，這不是一個展現你彌賽亞情結的好時機嗎? "" 所以，我來了。然後我又想，讓我們把涵蓋的時空超越25年吧。讓我們回到基督誕生以前，也就是三千年以前，回到那個，我心目中正義的腳步和對抗不公平及貧困的正要啟程的時代。三千年以前，文明正要開始在尼羅河畔孕育，某些奴隸，以猶太裔的牧羊人為例，我想他們渾身都是羊糞的味道吧，對著坐在至高王位上的法老宣稱 :‘ 吾皇，我們的地位是和你一樣的 ’ 然後法老回說 "" 喔，你們錯了 """"你，你們這些可悲的下人，一定是在開玩笑吧。"" 然後他們就說了 "" 不!不! 根據我們的聖書所說，事實就是如此。 "" 場景切到我們這個世紀，同一個國家，同一個金字塔，不同的人們正在散播同樣關於平等的思想而這次根據的是不同的書。這一次的書，叫做臉書。群眾聚集在解放廣場上，他們將虛擬的社交網路轉化為實際的行動，這好像是在為21世紀重開機一樣。先不說前陣子的阿拉伯之春過後，我們低估了接踵而來的混亂和醜陋，更不用說我們高估了科技在其中扮演的角色，但這些事給了我們希望，當老邁的金字塔權力體系，由上而下反轉過來，把人民拉到塔頂，然後現代法老們被丟到底端去。這同時也告訴我們，像資訊以及傳播這樣強而有力的東西，可以挑戰不平等的體制。因為""真相""，就像人民，都希望不受拘束，而當他們不受到限制時，目光所及之處，皆是自由，就連最窮的窮人也是如此。真相可以對犬儒主義和冷漠所導致的惰性提出質疑，真相告訴我們什麼是可行的，而且更重要的是，什麼是不可行的，所以我們可以去修正它，如果我們傾聽並關心真相時，它是有助於我們去應對納尓遜·曼德拉 (前南非總統)在2005年所提出的挑戰。當他請求我們成為一個偉大的世代，去糾正人類最糟糕的錯誤，也就是極端的貧窮，真相建立了一個強而有力的態勢。 所以我就想，忘了搖滾歌劇吧忘了我過去所發下的豪語吧。真相，是現今唯一能放聲歌唱的，因為我被內心的純真環繞著。自此，我已不再是搖滾巨星。我轉變成以證據為基礎的社會運動份子，也就是真相運動者。 因為真相告訴我們的是那又長又慢的路程，人類通往平等那又長又慢的路程，實際上正在加快腳步。看看我們已經達成了什麼。看看這組資料所展現的圖片。自從公元2000年以來，自從這個千禧年以來，世界上多了八百萬個接受高效抗逆轉錄病毒療法的愛滋病患者。瘧疾 : 在非洲撒哈拉南邊八個國家的死亡率已經下降了75%。五歲以下的小孩死亡人數，五歲以下的小孩，每年的數目已下降了265萬人次。這代表每天有7,256個幼童被拯救。(掌聲) 讓我們先暫停一下，說真的，然後想一想在過去的一週以來，你有在任何地方看到任何事，它的重要性能沾上這個數字的邊的嗎?這是天大的好消息。讓我抓狂的是絕大多數的人似乎不知道這個消息。每天有超過七千個小孩存活。這裡是其中的兩位。這是Michael 和 Benedicta，他們能活下來的主要原因，要感謝醫生 Patricia Asamoah ，她真的很了不起，還有Global Fund, 你們全都資助過它，不論是有意還是無意。Global Fund 提供了抗逆轉錄病毒的藥，這可以阻止擁有HIV的母親把病毒傳給小孩。這樣神奇的事不是無來由的自己發生的，它是被爭取來的，它是社會運動的訴求，它是科技創新的目的。而這個好消息催生了更多的好消息，因為歷史的潮流是如此的。生活在那勞筋苦骨、心力交瘁的極端貧窮的人數已經下降了，從1990年佔全球人口的百分之43，到2000年的百分之33，再到2010年的百分之21。掌聲鼓勵一下只剩一半，只剩一半。 現今，這比率還是徧高，還是有太多的人不必要的喪失了他們的生命。還有許多工作要去完成。但這是令人心碎。令人刻骨銘心的事。如果你每天生活的總花費少於1.25美金，如果你生活在那樣貧困的環境，這就不只單單是一個數據而已。這是你生命的所有。如果你是那種想要把最好的都留給孩子的父母，而我也是其中一員那這項快速的過渡時期是將絕望帶往希望的道路猜猜看，如果這條道路繼續延伸下去，那麼那些每天生活費只有1.25美金的人到2030年會變成多少呢?這不可能吧?可能嗎?(簡報顯示為零)這是數據告訴我們的。如果這條道路有持續走下去的話我們會達到，哇，零的區域。對於像我們這樣的數據統計人員來說，這是非常性感的區域，現在來說，這樣子的整理數據讓我的性慾都被激起了。所以虛擬的消除這些生活費在每天1.25美元以下極端貧窮的人，是有被調整過的，理所當然的，是從1990為基準線的通貨膨脹所致。我們當然喜歡基準線多麼的驚人 現在，我知道你們其中一些人覺得這樣的進展只發生在亞洲或拉丁美洲或模範(model)國家像是巴西，而有誰不喜歡巴西的模特兒(model)呢?但看看非洲薩哈拉南邊。這裡有10個一系列的國家，某些人稱呼它們為獅子群，它們在過去的十年來得到了加起來是百分之百的債務取消，獲得三倍的援助，和增加十倍的FDI也就是境外直接投資。這讓國內的資源，也就是當地貨幣，翻了兩翻。當它們被妥善運用時，也就是良好的管理，讓小孩的死亡率減少了三分之一，學業完成率也增加了變成兩倍，他們同時也將極端貧窮人口減半了。而在這樣的速率下，這十個國家也將到達零的領域。這些獅子的驕傲就是這概念最好的佐證。 而這樣子會有各式各樣的好處。我來舉個例子，你們再也不用去理會一個像學耶穌跳躍且難以忍受的人，也就是本人我。這樣如何? (掌聲) 那2028，2030年呢? 它們很快就會來了。我的意思是，那大概是再三次的滾石樂團再見演唱會之後。(笑聲) 我希望。我也這麼希望。這會讓我們看起來都很年輕。 那為什麼我們並沒有很興奮地期待這件事呢?這麼說好了，機會是存在的，但危機也潛藏在之中。我們在承認可以做到這件事之前，我們無法完成這件事。看看這個圖表。這叫做惰性。這就是我們如何搞砸這件事的。而下一個東西真的很美妙它叫做態勢。這是讓我們能夠扭轉歷史使它朝向零的領域的原因。只要去做那些我們知道有效的事就行了。 惰性對抗態勢。其中潛藏著危機，當然，你靠得越近舊傷得越重。我們知道目前阻擋在我們前面的阻礙，而這是艱難的時刻。事實上，你們國家的首都，正處於艱難的時刻，其中某些看管國家金庫的人，想要刪減像是Global Fund這樣拯救生命的計畫。但你們可以為此做些甚麼。你可以告訴那些政治人物，這樣砍預算的同時也砍了許多生命。 今日，就在現在，在挪威的奧斯陸正在發生，石油公司為了不讓當地政府知道它們從開發中國家提取石油時所付出的資金而在抵抗著。你也可以為這件事做些甚麼。你可以參加其中一場抗爭，像加入Mo Ibrahim 這樣的領導者，同時也是電信公司企業家。我們正在推動一個法案，以確保至少讓土地下的財富，能夠到達住在該片土地上的人手上。 而現在，我們知道在所有疾病之中，最嚴重的，並不是疾病。而是腐敗。但這同樣也是有疫苗可以預防的。這疫苗叫做透明化，資訊公開化。這在TED社群裡面已經有某部分在運作中了。陽光，你也可以如此稱乎它，和透明是一樣的。而科技也讓這項工作極速發展。隱藏見不得人的事會變得越來越難。 所以，讓我來為大家介紹U-report，這是讓我非常興奮的一個東西。他是橫跨烏干達，由150,000個年輕人用2G手機組成的簡訊社群聯絡網，用來揭發政府的腐敗，以及用來要求公開預算內容和他們的錢是怎樣被花掉的。這是一個很令人興奮的東西。 想想看，當你擁有了這些工具後，你沒有辦法不去用它們。當你擁有了這些知識後，你沒辦法忘記它們。你不能刪除在你腦海中的記憶，但你可以刪除掉那些將成為過去的景象像是貧窮和乞求的人們，他們沒有辦法掌握自己的人生。你可以抺除掉這些，你真的可以，因為這些將不再是存在這世上的真相了。(掌聲) 這就叫做轉型。2030年? 到了2030年，機器人的功能不再只為我們服侍健力士(愛爾蘭黑啤酒) ，同時也能夠飲用。當我們到了那個時代的時候，世界各地上每個還不成熟的政權可能已經步上正軌了。 所以我今天來到這裡，我想應該是我們來到這裡，試著要用這個用資料組成的，善的病毒，來感染你們，我們稱呼它為真相運動者。這病毒不會致你於死地。事實上，它可以拯救無數的生命。我想我們處在一個恨不得你變得極具傳染性的抗爭中，散播它，分享它，將它傳給別人。藉此，你會加入我們和數不清的人參與一場我相信是史上最偉大的一場冒險，為了從未這麼被需要的平等，而啟動的旅程。我們能夠成為一個偉大的世代嗎?就如同曼德拉 請求的那樣?希望我們吹響的號角裡包含了科技、理性、真相以及，我敢說，感性，來回答這個問題。因為，很顯然的，真相運動者也是有感情的。 我想到的是Wael Ghonim這號人物。你們有些人可能知道他，他發起了其中一個Facebook團體，因此造成了開羅解放廣場上的事件。他被丟到了監獄裡去，但他所說的話就烙印在我腦海裡。 "" 我們最終會獲得勝利，因為我們不瞭解政治。我們最終會贏得勝利，因為我們不同流合污，我們最終會取得勝利，因為我們沒有政黨政治的議程。我們最終會取得勝利，因為從我們眼中的淚水是從我們的良心流下來的。我們最終會勝利，因為我們有夢想，而且我們會為了夢想而站出來。"" Wael 是對的。我們會嚐到勝利的果實，如果我們同心協力，因為人民的權力比目前掌握權力的人要大得多了。 謝謝你們。 (掌聲)非常感謝。(掌聲)"
