Talk	en	zh-tw
bono_s_call_to_action_for_africa	"Well, as Alexander Graham Bell famously said on his first successful telephone call, ""Hello, is that Domino's Pizza?"" (Laughter) I just really want to thank you very much. As another famous man, Jerry Garcia, said, ""What a strange, long trip."" And he should have said, ""What a strange, long trip it's about to become."" At this very moment, you are viewing my upper half. My lower half is appearing at a different conference (Laughter) in a different country. You can, it turns out, be in two places at once. But still, I'm sorry I can't be with you in person. I'll explain at another time. And though I'm a rock star, I just want to assure you that none of my wishes will include a hot tub. But what really turns me on about technology is not just the ability to get more songs on MP3 players. The revolution — this revolution — is much bigger than that. I hope, I believe. What turns me on about the digital age, what excites me personally, is that you have closed the gap between dreaming and doing. You see, it used to be that if you wanted to make a record of a song, you needed a studio and a producer. Now, you need a laptop. If you wanted to make a film, you needed a mass of equipment and a Hollywood budget. Now, you need a camera that fits in your palm, and a couple of bucks for a blank DVD. Imagination has been decoupled from the old constraints. And that really, really excites me. I'm excited when I glimpse that kind of thinking writ large. What I would like to see is idealism decoupled from all constraints. Political, economic, psychological, whatever. The geopolitical world has got a lot to learn from the digital world. From the ease with which you swept away obstacles that no one knew could even be budged. And that's actually what I'd like to talk about today. First, though, I should probably explain why, and how, I got to this place. It's a journey that started 20 years ago. You may remember that song, ""We Are the World,"" or, ""Do They Know It's Christmas?"" Band Aid, Live Aid. Another very tall, grizzled rock star, my friend Sir Bob Geldof, issued a challenge to ""feed the world."" It was a great moment, and it utterly changed my life. That summer, my wife, Ali, and myself went to Ethiopia. We went on the quiet to see for ourselves what was going on. We lived in Ethiopia for a month, working at an orphanage. The children had a name for me. They called me, ""The girl with the beard."" (Laughter) Don't ask. Anyway, we found Africa to be a magical place. Big skies, big hearts, big, shining continent. Beautiful, royal people. Anybody who ever gave anything to Africa got a lot more back. Ethiopia didn't just blow my mind; it opened my mind. Anyway, on our last day at this orphanage a man handed me his baby and said, ""Would you take my son with you?"" He knew, in Ireland, that his son would live, and that in Ethiopia, his son would die. It was the middle of that awful famine. Well, I turned him down. And it was a funny kind of sick feeling, but I turned him down. And it's a feeling I can't ever quite forget. And in that moment, I started this journey. In that moment, I became the worst thing of all: I became a rock star with a cause. (Laughter) Except this isn't the cause, is it? Six-and-a-half thousand Africans dying every single day from AIDS — a preventable, treatable disease — for lack of drugs we can get in any pharmacy. That's not a cause. That's an emergency. 11 million AIDS orphans in Africa, 20 million by the end of the decade. That's not a cause. That's an emergency. Today, every day, 9,000 more Africans will catch HIV because of stigmatization and lack of education. That's not a cause. That's an emergency. So what we're talking about here is human rights. The right to live like a human. The right to live, period. And what we're facing in Africa is an unprecedented threat to human dignity and equality. The next thing I'd like to be clear about is what this problem is, and what this problem isn't. Because this is not all about charity. This is about justice. Really. This is not about charity. This is about justice. That's right. And that's too bad, because we're very good at charity. Americans, like Irish people, are good at it. Even the poorest neighborhoods give more than they can afford. We like to give, and we give a lot. Look at the response to the tsunami — it's inspiring. But justice is a tougher standard than charity. You see, Africa makes a fool of our idea of justice. It makes a farce of our idea of equality. It mocks our pieties. It doubts our concern. It questions our commitment. Because there is no way we can look at what's happening in Africa, and if we're honest, conclude that it would ever be allowed to happen anywhere else. As you heard in the film, anywhere else, not here. Not here, not in America, not in Europe. In fact, a head of state that you're all familiar with admitted this to me. And it's really true. There is no chance this kind of hemorrhaging of human life would be accepted anywhere else other than Africa. Africa is a continent in flames. And deep down, if we really accepted that Africans were equal to us, we would all do more to put the fire out. We're standing around with watering cans, when what we really need is the fire brigade. You see, it's not as dramatic as the tsunami. It's crazy, really, when you think about it. Does stuff have to look like an action movie these days to exist in the front of our brain? The slow extinguishing of countless lives is just not dramatic enough, it would appear. Catastrophes that we can avert are not as interesting as ones we could avert. Funny, that. Anyway, I believe that that kind of thinking offends the intellectual rigor in this room. Six-and-a-half thousand people dying a day in Africa may be Africa's crisis, but the fact that it's not on the nightly news, that we in Europe, or you in America, are not treating it like an emergency — I want to argue with you tonight that that's our crisis. I want to argue that though Africa is not the front line in the war against terror, it could be soon. Every week, religious extremists take another African village. They're attempting to bring order to chaos. Well, why aren't we? Poverty breeds despair. We know this. Despair breeds violence. We know this. In turbulent times, isn't it cheaper, and smarter, to make friends out of potential enemies than to defend yourself against them later? ""The war against terror is bound up in the war against poverty."" And I didn't say that. Colin Powell said that. Now when the military are telling us that this is a war that cannot be won by military might alone, maybe we should listen. There's an opportunity here, and it's real. It's not spin. It's not wishful thinking. The problems facing the developing world afford us in the developed world a chance to re-describe ourselves to the world. We will not only transform other people's lives, but we will also transform the way those other lives see us. And that might be smart in these nervous, dangerous times. Don't you think that on a purely commercial level, that anti-retroviral drugs are great advertisements for Western ingenuity and technology? Doesn't compassion look well on us? And let's cut the crap for a second. In certain quarters of the world, brand EU, brand USA, is not at its shiniest. The neon sign is fizzing and cracking. Someone's put a brick through the window. The regional branch managers are getting nervous. Never before have we in the west been so scrutinized. Our values: do we have any? Our credibility? These things are under attack around the world. Brand USA could use some polishing. And I say that as a fan, you know? As a person who buys the products. But think about it. More anti-retrovirals make sense. But that's just the easy part, or ought to be. But equality for Africa — that's a big, expensive idea. You see, the scale of the suffering numbs us into a kind of indifference. What on earth can we all do about this? Well, much more than we think. We can't fix every problem, but the ones we can, I want to argue, we must. And because we can, we must. This is the straight truth, the righteous truth. It is not a theory. The fact is that ours is the first generation that can look disease and extreme poverty in the eye, look across the ocean to Africa, and say this, and mean it: we do not have to stand for this. A whole continent written off — we do not have to stand for this. (Applause) And let me say this without a trace of irony — before I back it up to a bunch of ex-hippies. Forget the '60s. We can change the world. I can't; you can't, as individuals; but we can change the world. I really believe that, the people in this room. Look at the Gates Foundation. They've done incredible stuff, unbelievable stuff. But working together, we can actually change the world. We can turn the inevitable outcomes, and transform the quality of life for millions of lives who look and feel rather like us, when you're up close. I'm sorry to laugh here, but you do look so different than you did in Haight-Ashbury in the '60s. (Laughter) But I want to argue that this is the moment that you are designed for. It is the flowering of the seeds you planted in earlier, headier days. Ideas that you gestated in your youth. This is what excites me. This room was born for this moment, is really what I want to say to you tonight. Most of you started out wanting to change the world, didn't you? Most of you did, the digital world. Well, now, actually because of you, it is possible to change the physical world. It's a fact. Economists confirm it, and they know much more than I do. So why, then, are we not pumping our fists into the air? Probably because when we admit we can do something about it, we've got to do something about it. It is a pain in the arse. This equality business is actually a pain in the arse. But for the first time in history, we have the technology; we have the know-how; we have the cash; we have the life-saving drugs. Do we have the will? I hope this is obvious, but I'm not a hippie. And I'm not really one for the warm, fuzzy feeling. I do not have flowers in my hair. Actually, I come from punk rock. The Clash wore big army boots, not sandals. But I know toughness when I see it. And for all the talk of peace and love on the West Coast, there was muscle to the movement that started out here. You see, idealism detached from action is just a dream. But idealism allied with pragmatism, with rolling up your sleeves and making the world bend a bit, is very exciting. It's very real. It's very strong. And it's very present in a crowd like you. Last year at DATA, this organization I helped set up, we launched a campaign to summon this spirit in the fight against AIDS and extreme poverty. We're calling it the ONE Campaign. It's based on our belief that the action of one person can change a lot, but the actions of many coming together as one can change the world. Well, we feel that now is the time to prove we're right. There are moments in history when civilization redefines itself. We believe this is one. We believe that this could be the time when the world finally decides that the wanton loss of life in Africa is just no longer acceptable. This could be the time that we finally get serious about changing the future for most people who live on planet Earth. Momentum has been building. Lurching a little, but it's building. This year is a test for us all, especially the leaders of the G8 nations, who really are on the line here, with all the world in history watching. I have been, of late, disappointed with the Bush Administration. They started out with such promise on Africa. They made some really great promises, and actually have fulfilled a lot of them. But some of them they haven't. They don't feel the push from the ground, is the truth. But my disappointment has much more perspective when I talk to American people, and I hear their worries about the deficit, and the fiscal well being of their country. I understand that. But there's much more push from the ground than you'd think, if we got organized. What I try to communicate, and you can help me if you agree, is that aid for Africa is just great value for money at a time when America really needs it. Putting it in the crassest possible terms, the investment reaps huge returns. Not only in lives saved, but in goodwill, stability and security that we'll gain. So this is what I hope that you will do, if I could be so bold, and not have it deducted from my number of wishes. (Laughter) What I hope is that beyond individual merciful acts, that you will tell the politicians to do right by Africa, by America and by the world. Give them permission, if you like, to spend their political capital and your financial capital, your national purse on saving the lives of millions of people. That's really what I would like you to do. Because we also need your intellectual capital: your ideas, your skills, your ingenuity. And you, at this conference, are in a unique position. Some of the technologies we've been talking about, you invented them, or at least revolutionized the way that they're used. Together you have changed the zeitgeist from analog to digital, and pushed the boundaries. And we'd like you to give us that energy. Give us that kind of dreaming, that kind of doing. As I say, there're two things on the line here. There's the continent Africa. But there's also our sense of ourselves. People are starting to figure this out. Movements are springing up. Artists, politicians, pop stars, priests, CEOs, NGOs, mothers' unions, student unions. A lot of people are getting together, and working under this umbrella I told you about earlier, the ONE Campaign. I think they just have one idea in their mind, which is, where you live in the world should not determine whether you live in the world. (Applause) History, like God, is watching what we do. When the history books get written, I think our age will be remembered for three things. Really, it's just three things this whole age will be remembered for. The digital revolution, yes. The war against terror, yes. And what we did or did not do to put out the fires in Africa. Some say we can't afford to. I say we can't afford not to. Thank you, thank you very much. (Applause) Okay, my three wishes. The ones that TED has offered to grant. You see, if this is true, and I believe it is, that the digital world you all created has uncoupled the creative imagination from the physical constraints of matter, this should be a piece of piss. (Laughter) I should add that this started out as a much longer list of wishes. Most of them impossible, some of them impractical and one or two of them certainly immoral. (Laughter) This business, it gets to be addictive, you know what I mean, when somebody else is picking up the tab. Anyway, here's number one. I wish for you to help build a social movement of more than one million American activists for Africa. That is my first wish. I believe it's possible. A few minutes ago, I talked about all the citizens' campaigns that are springing up. You know, there's lots out there. And with this one campaign as our umbrella, my organization, DATA, and other groups, have been tapping into the energy and the enthusiasm that's out there from Hollywood into the heartland of America. We know there's more than enough energy to power this movement. We just need your help in making it happen. We want all of you here, church America, corporate America, Microsoft America, Apple America, Coke America, Pepsi America, nerd America, noisy America. We can't afford to be cool and sit this one out. I do believe if we build a movement that's one million Americans strong, we're not going to be denied. We will have the ear of Congress. We'll be the first page in Condi Rice's briefing book, and right into the Oval Office. If there's one million Americans — and I really know this — who are ready to make phone calls, who are ready to be on email, I am absolutely sure that we can actually change the course of history, literally, for the continent of Africa. Anyway, so I'd like your help in getting that signed up. I know John Gage and Sun Microsystems are already on board for this, but there's lots of you we'd like to talk to. Right, my second wish, number two. I would like one media hit for every person on the planet who is living on less than one dollar a day. That's one billion media hits. Could be on Google, could be on AOL. Steve Case, Larry, Sergey — they've done a lot already. It could be NBC. It could be ABC. Actually we're talking to ABC today about the Oscars. We have a film, produced by Jon Kamen at Radical Media. But you know, we want, we need some airtime for our ideas. We need to get the math; we need to get the statistics out to the American people. I really believe that old Truman line, that if you give the American people the facts, they'll do the right thing. And, the other thing that's important is that this is not Sally Struthers. This has to be described as an adventure, not a burden. (Video): One by one they step forward, a nurse, a teacher, a homemaker, and lives are saved. The problem is enormous. Every three seconds one person dies. Another three seconds, one more. The situation is so desperate in parts of Africa, Asia, even America, that aid groups, just as they did for the tsunami, are uniting as one, acting as one. We can beat extreme poverty, starvation, AIDS. But we need your help. One more person, letter, voice will mean the difference between life and death for millions of people. Please join us by working together. Americans have an unprecedented opportunity. We can make history. We can start to make poverty history. One, by one, by one. Please visit ONE at this address. We're not asking for your money. We're asking for your voice. Bono: All right. I wish for TED to truly show the power of information, its power to rewrite the rules and transform lives, by connecting every hospital, health clinic and school in one African country. And I would like it to be Ethiopia. I believe we can connect every school in Ethiopia, every health clinic, every hospital — we can connect to the Internet. That is my wish, my third wish. I think it's possible. I think we have the money and brains in the room to do that. And that would be a mind-blowing wish to come true. I've been to Ethiopia, as I said earlier. It's actually where it all started for me. The idea that the Internet, which changed all of our lives, can transform a country — and a continent that has hardly made it to analog, let alone digital — blows my mind. But it didn't start out that way. The first long-distance line from Boston to New York was used in 1885 on the phone. It was just nine years later that Addis Ababa was connected by phone to Harare, which is 500 kilometers away. Since then, not that much has changed. The average waiting time to get a landline in Ethiopia is actually about seven or eight years. But wireless technology wasn't dreamt up then. Anyway, I'm Irish, and as you can see, I know how important talking is. Communication is very important for Ethiopia — will transform the country. Nurses getting better training, pharmacists being able to order supplies, doctors sharing their expertise in all aspects of medicine. It's a very, very good idea to get them wired. And that is my third and final wish for you at the TED conference. Thank you very much once again. (Applause)"	"就像電話發明人貝爾在打通了第一通電話後說的：「您好，是達美樂披薩嗎？」（笑聲）我非常感謝你們。正如另一位名人傑瑞•加西亞所說：「多麼奇異、漫長的旅程。」其實他應該說：「更奇異、漫長的旅程才正要展開。」此時此刻，你正看著我的上半身。我的下半身正出席著另一個會議 –（笑聲）是在另一個國家的會議。原來一個人，可以同時在兩個地方出現。儘管如此，我還是很抱歉沒能到現場。以後有機會再向各位解釋。 我也想向你們保證，雖然我是個搖滾明星，但我的願望並不包括按摩浴缸。科技讓我興奮之處不只是能在 MP3 播放器裡放入更多首歌。革命 — 這個革命 — 不只如此。我希望，我相信。數位時代真正讓我興奮的，讓我欣喜若狂的，是各位已經將夢想與實踐的距離消除了。以前，若想錄製一首歌，你需要一間錄音室，和一位製作人。現在，你需要的僅是一台手提電腦。如果要製作電影，你需要大量的器材和好萊塢級的資金。現在你只需要一架掌上型攝影機，和購買空白 DVD 碟片的幾塊錢。想像力已經掙脫過去的束縛。那讓我特別興奮。每當我看見那種想法顯現，我都無比欣喜。 我更想看到理想主義掙脫所有的束縛。政治，經濟，心理，等等。地緣政治界有許多該向數位世界學習的。你們能輕輕鬆鬆地將沒人知道怎麼處理的障礙掃到一旁去。這就是我今天想談的。也許我該先解釋我為什麼，怎麼會，走到這一步。這是二十年前開始的旅程。你也許記得這首歌，“We Are the World,""或“Do They Know It's Christmas?""Band Aid, Live Aid (樂團援助現場演唱會)。一位非常高大、頭髮斑白的搖滾巨星，也是我的好友鮑伯格耳多夫爵士，挑戰我來「餵養世界」。那是很重要的一刻，徹底地改變了我的一生。那年夏天，我和我太太艾麗去了衣索比亞。我們悄悄地去了解那邊的情況。我們在衣索比亞住了一個月，在一所孤兒院裡工作。那裡的小孩給我取了個名字。他們叫我，「那個留著鬍子的女孩」。 （笑聲） 別問我為什麼。我們發現非洲充滿魔力。廣闊的天空，開闊的心胸，光亮的大陸。美麗，高貴的人。任何曾為非洲付出過的人，都得到更多的回報。衣索比亞不只震撼了我的心靈，她更打開了我的心扉。我們在孤兒院的最後一天，有個男人把他的嬰兒交給我說，「你能把我的兒子一起帶走嗎？」他知道，在愛爾蘭，他的兒子就能活下去，在衣索比亞，他的兒子就會死去。當時正處於可怕的飢荒期間。我拒絕了他。那是一種很奇怪的不舒服的感覺，可是我還是拒絕了他。而且我一直無法忘記那種感覺。就在那一刻，我開始了這趟旅程。 就在那一刻，我成了最糟糕的一樣東西：我成了有主張的搖滾明星。不過這根本不是什麼主張嘛，是嗎？每一天，6,500 名非洲人死於愛滋病—一種可以預防，可以治療的疾病—只因為他們缺乏我們在藥房就能買到的藥。這不是什麼主張。這是緊急危難。非洲有 1,100 萬個愛滋孤兒，到了 2010 年預計有 2,000 萬個。這不是什麼主張。這是緊急危難。今天，每一天，又有 9,000 名非洲人會因為歧視和缺乏教育而感染 HIV 病毒。這不是什麼主張。這是緊急危難。所以，我們在討論的是人權。像個人一樣活著的權利。活著的權利。僅此而已。在非洲，我們所面對的，是對人性尊嚴、平等理念的前所未有的威脅。 接著，我必須清楚地說明問題的本質，並澄清問題。因為這不完全是慈善。這其實有關正義。真的。這不是做慈善，這是伸張正義。正是。但那很可惜，因為我們很會做慈善。美國人，跟愛爾蘭人一樣，都很會做慈善。就連最貧窮的鄰里都捐多於自己所能負擔的。我們愛捐，並且捐很多。看看大家對海嘯的回應，那很振奮人心。可是正義，比慈善更難拿捏。非洲使我們所謂的正義顯得可笑。她使我們所謂的平等顯得荒唐。我們的虔誠被嘲笑。我們的關心被懷疑。我們的承諾被質問。因為，如果我們捫心自問，我們必須承認，現在在非洲所發生的事情，不可能被允許發生在其他任何地方。 就如你在影片裡所聽到的，其他任何地方。不在這裡，不在美國，不在歐洲。你們熟悉的一位國家元首向我承認了這一點。這是事實。這種人命大量的流失不可能在任何一個地方被接受，除了非洲。非洲是正被火焰吞噬的一個大陸。如果我們由衷地相信非洲人與我們是平等的，我們會更積極地去滅火。我們都站在一旁，拿著水桶，但我們真正需要的是救火隊。 這不像海嘯那麼戲劇化。這太瘋狂了，如果你仔細想想。這個時代，是不是什麼都要看起來像動作片，才不會被我們拋諸腦後？無數人命慢慢地熄滅，好像還不夠戲劇化似的。我們現在還能避免的災難，不比無法避免的災難引人注意。真是很可笑。不過，我相信這種想法，會讓在場的知識份子很反感。每天有 6,500 個非洲人死去也許是非洲的危機，但是這件事沒有出現在我們的晚間新聞，歐洲的我們，或在美國的你們，都沒有把這視為當務之急 —今晚我想指出，這正表示，這是我們的危機。雖然目前的反恐戰爭中，非洲並非位於前線，但我認為，也許就快了。每個星期都有非洲村莊被宗教極端份子佔領。他們正嘗試在混亂中帶來秩序。為什麼我們不去做？ 貧困會帶來絕望。我們清楚知道。絕望會衍生暴力。我們清楚知道。在亂世，若能化敵為友，那不是比未來需要提防他們更便宜，更聰明嗎？反恐戰爭和鏟除貧困是息息相關的。那不是我說的。是美國前參謀首長鮑爾說的。如果連軍方都告訴我們這不是一場光靠軍事力量就能打贏的仗，也許我們該聽他們的。現在機會已經到來，而且是真實的。這不是在編故事。這也不是痴心妄想。開發中國家所面臨的問題，正是我們身在已開發國家的人們重新向世界介紹自己的機會。我們不只會改變他們的生活，也會轉變他們對我們的看法。在這緊張、危險的時代，那也許是明智之舉。 若以純商業角度來看，你們難道不覺得抗逆轉錄病毒藥物（抑制愛滋病的藥物）能夠很棒地推銷西方的創造性和科技嗎？憐憫之心難道不會讓我們的形象更好？讓我們進入正題。在世界上的一些區域，「歐盟」品牌和「 USA 」品牌名聲已經大不如前了。招牌上的霓虹燈正發出嘶嘶聲，開始碎裂了。有人用磚頭在窗口砸了一個洞。區域品牌經理已經開始不安。我們西方從來不曾如此被詳細檢驗過。我們所重視的價值，還在嗎？我們的信用呢？這些東西在世界各地受到抨擊。「 USA 」品牌需要拋光了。我是以一個粉絲的身份說的，以一個產品愛用者的身份。可是想想看，提供更多的抗逆轉錄病毒藥物是不錯，但那只是最簡單的部分，至少應該是的。 可是平等對待非洲，那是一個昂貴的主意。非洲的痛苦規模之大，已經讓我們麻痺，變得冷漠不在乎。我們到底還能做些什麼？其實，比我們想像的多。我們不能解決所有的問題，但是我們能夠解決的那些，我要強調，我們一定要解決。因為我們能夠解決，所以我們一定要解決。這是直接的真相，正義的真相。這不是個理論。事實是，我們是有史以來第一代，能直視疾病和極度的貧困，直視著非洲所發生的，並且認真地說，我們沒有必要忍受這一切。整個大陸被抹殺 — 我們沒有必要忍受。 （掌聲） 讓我不帶任何諷刺地說 —在我讓你回想起嬉皮之前。忘了六十年代。我們能改變世界。我不能，你不能，單靠個人不能；可是我們一起能改變世界。我真的相信在座的各位能。看看蓋茨基金會。他們做了一些不可思議，難以置信的事。我們的合作，真的可以改變這個世界。我們能逆轉原本不能避免的，轉變數百萬人的生活品質，這些人的樣貌和感受跟我們一樣，如果你靠近一點看。抱歉，我想笑，因為你們的確和六十年代在Haight-Ashbury時很不一樣。 （笑聲） 但我要說的是，你們正是為了這一刻而設計的。這是你們年少輕狂時所種下的種子開花結果。是你們年輕時孕育的理想。這讓我興奮。這房間是為了這一刻而誕生的。這正是我今晚想要說的。你們不是一直都想改變世界嗎？是的，你們的確改變了數位世界。而現在，正因為有你們，我們有能力改變真實的世界。這是事實。經濟學家證實過，而且他們懂得比我多。那麼為什麼我們沒有實際行動呢？可能當我們承認有什麼是我們能做的時候，我們就得有所行動。那讓人很困擾。平等理念實在很讓人很困擾。但是，有史以來，我們第一次有技術，有知識，有資金，有能拯救生命的藥物。 可是我們有意志力嗎?我希望答案很明顯，但我不是個嬉皮。我並不特別喜歡那模糊溫暖的感覺。我頭上也沒插花。其實，我來自龐克搖滾界。The Clash 樂團穿的是大軍靴，不是涼鞋。但是我看得出真正的韌性。在 West Coast 關於愛與和平的談論，都發展成為有力的運動。理想主義如果脫離了實際行動，就只是夢想。可是理想主義加上實務精神，捲起袖子，設法讓世界稍稍彎折，非常振奮人心。那很真實，很有力。對你們來說應該很有共鳴。 去年，在我協助成立的組織 DATA,我們推展了一項運動，呼籲對抗愛滋病以及極度貧窮。我們叫它 One (一) 運動。因為我們深信一個人的行動有很大的改變的力量。而許多人的行動，合而為一，足以改變世界。我們認為到了驗證這個想法的時候了。歷史總有些讓文明世界重新定義自己的時機。我們相信現在正是時候。我們相信，可能就在這一刻，世界終於決定不再忍受對非洲的肆虐。這一刻可能是我們終於願意嚴肅地去影響多數地球人的未來。 動力在增加。還有些不穩健，但持續在增加。今年是考驗的一年，尤其八大工業國的領袖，在這關鍵性的一刻，世界的焦點都在他們的身上。最近，我對布希政府感到失望。他們一開始對非洲做出那麼大的承諾。他們做出非常棒的承諾，其實也履行了不少。但是有一些卻沒有履行。事實是，美國民間沒有讓他們感受到壓力。我的失望變得比較客觀，是因為當我和美國人談話，我聽見他們對赤字的擔心，對國家經濟的擔憂，這些我可以理解。可是來自民間的推動力比你想像的更大，只要我們能組織起來。 我想傳達的是，如果你同意，你可以協助我，援助非洲非常划算，而這正是美國最需要的時候。以最庸俗的方法說，這是一項利潤豐厚的投資。不只能救人，我們還能得到信譽，穩定，以及安全保障。所以我冒昧的希望各位這樣去做，而且不要從我的三個願望裡扣除。 （笑聲） 我希望除了個人的善行，你能告訴你的政治家，不要對不起非洲，不要對不起美國，不要對不起世界。如果你願意，允許他們，讓他們用他們的政治經費，你的資金，你的國庫來救數百萬人的性命。那是我希望你能做的。因為我們還需要你的智力資本：你的想法，你的技能，你的創造力。在場的各位，你們佔有很特別的位置。我們討論的一些科技，是你們發明的，或改革了它們的用法。你們將時代精神從類比轉變為數位，並且推動了極限。我們希望你們給予我們這樣的能量。給予我們夢想的能力，實踐的能力。 如我所說，我們要考慮的事情有兩件。一個是非洲大陸，另一個是我們的自我意識。許多人開始了解這點。很多運動崛起。藝人，政治家，偶像，神父，總裁，非政府組織，母親聯盟，學生聯盟。很多人正聚集在一起，一同合作，就在我先前提到的 ONE 運動架構之下。我認為他們腦子裡只有一個想法，就是，你出生在世界上的什麼地方，不應該決定你是否能在世界上生存下去。 （掌聲） 歷史，就像上帝，正在看著我們的一舉一動。當他們在記載歷史時我認為我們的時代會因為三件事而留名。這整個時代，就三件事。數位革命，是的。反恐戰爭，是的。以及我們面對非洲的危機時，所做的，或沒做的。有人說我們沒辦法幫忙。我說我們沒辦法不幫忙。謝謝，非常感謝你們。 （掌聲） 好的，我的三個願望。TED 答應實現的願望。如果這是真的，而我相信是的，你們所創造的數位世界已讓創意想像脫離真實世界的束縛。那這應該是易如反掌。 （笑聲） 必須讓你們知道，我的願望清單原本比這個長得多。大多數的願望不可能實現，有些不實際，更有一兩個是不道德的。 （笑聲） 這玩意兒，很容易上癮，當你知道有人要為你結帳的時候。好了，這是我的第一個願望。我希望你們能幫非洲建立一個社會運動，有超過一百萬名美國社會行動者參與。那是我的第一個願望。我相信這是有可能的。幾分鐘前，我談到蓬勃發展的公民運動。真的有好多。在ONE運動的涵蓋下，我的機構 DATA , 和其他的組織，已在支取從好萊塢一直到美國內陸地區的能量與熱忱。我們知道有足夠的能量發起這項運動。我們只差你們的協助，使它成真。 我們要在場的所有的人，教會美國，企業美國，微軟美國，蘋果美國，可樂美國，百事美國，書呆的美國，吵鬧的美國。我們不能坐在一旁裝酷。我相信如果我們能建起一個超過一百萬美國人的運動，我們不會被拒絕。我們會讓國會聆聽。我們會出現在美國國務卿萊斯的簡報的第一頁，直接進入美國總統的橢圓形辦公室。如果有一百萬美國人— 我知道真的有 —準備好撥電話，準備好發出電子郵件。我絕對確信我們能改寫歷史，真正的，改寫非洲的歷史。我需要你們幫忙聯絡他們。我知道約翰•蓋奇與Sun Microsystems已決定參與，可是我們還想跟更多的人溝通。 我的第二個願望。我希望能為地球上每一名每天收入低於一美元的人，換來一次媒體點擊。那就是十億次媒體點擊。可以在 Google, 可以在 AOL.史蒂芬•凱斯、賴利、謝爾蓋 — 他們已經做了很多。可以在 NBC, 可以在 ABC. 。其實今天我們正在和ABC討論奧斯卡獎。我們有個影片，由 Radical Media 的喬恩•卡門所製作。可是我們的構想需要一些播放時間。我們需要把這些統計數字播放給美國人看。我相信杜魯門說過的，如果你提供美國人事實，他們就會做正確的事。另一件重要的事，這不是莎麗•斯特拉瑟斯。這必須被形容為一趟冒險旅程，不是個負擔。 （影片）：一個接著一個，他們向前邁進一步，一個護士，一個教師，一個家庭主婦，生命獲救了。問題很龐大。每三秒有一個人死去。過了三秒，又多一個。情況非常危急，在非洲，亞洲，甚至美洲，以至於援助組織，就像海嘯時那樣聯合為一，行動一致。我們可以擊敗極度貧困，飢餓，愛滋病。可是我們需要您的幫忙。多一個人，一封信，一把聲音，就能改變生死，影響數百萬人。請加入我們，一同合作。美國人有個前所未有的機會。我們能改寫歷史。我們能讓貧困成為歷史。一個，接著一個，接著一個。請到此網址探訪 ONE.我們要的不是你的錢，我們要的是你的聲音。 好的，我希望 TED 能展現資訊的威力。改寫條規，轉變生命的威力，把一個非洲國家裡的所有的醫院，診所，和學校連結起來。我希望那個國家是衣索比亞。我相信我們能把衣索比亞的每一所學校，每一間診所，每一家醫院連線起來。我們可以連上網際網路。那是我的心願，第三個心願。我認為有可能的。我認為現場有足夠的資金和智力來完成這件事。若那能實現，那會很振奮人心。如我先前說的，我到過衣索比亞。我的旅程正是從那裡開始的。已改變我們所有人的生活的網際網路，能夠徹底改變一個國家，一個大洲，一個還沒到類比時代，更別說數位時代的大洲 — 那讓我很興奮。可是不是一開始就這樣的。 第一通從波士頓到紐約的長途電話是在1885年通上的。短短九年後，便能從阿迪斯阿貝巴打電話到五百公里外的哈拉雷。從那時便沒什麼進展。在衣索比亞，申請市內電話線的平均等候時間是七至八年。可是當時沒有無線科技。如你所見，我是愛爾蘭人，我知道說話的重要性。通訊對衣索比亞非常重要 — 能轉變整個國家。護士能得到更好的訓練，藥劑師能訂購藥物，醫生能分享醫療資訊。把他們都連結起來是個很好很好的主意。那是我的第三個願望，也是我在 TED 會議最後的一個願望。再次感謝各位。 （掌聲）"
