Talk	en	zh-tw
brenda_laurel_on_making_games_for_girls	"Back in 1992, I started working for a company called Interval Research, which was just then being founded by David Lidell and Paul Allen as a for-profit research enterprise in Silicon Valley. I met with David to talk about what I might do in his company. I was just coming out of a failed virtual reality business and supporting myself by being on the speaking circuit and writing books — after twenty years or so in the computer game industry having ideas that people didn't think they could sell. And David and I discovered that we had a question in common, that we really wanted the answer to, and that was, ""Why hasn't anybody built any computer games for little girls?"" Why is that? It can't just be a giant sexist conspiracy. These people aren't that smart. There's six billion dollars on the table. They would go for it if they could figure out how. So, what is the deal here? And as we thought about our goals — I should say that Interval is really a humanistic institution, in the classical sense that humanism, at its best, finds a way to combine clear-eyed empirical research with a set of core values that fundamentally love and respect people. The basic idea of humanism is the improvable quality of life; that we can do good things, that there are things worth doing because they're good things to do, and that clear-eyed empiricism can help us figure out how to do them. So, contrary to popular belief, there is not a conflict of interest between empiricism and values. And Interval Research is kind of the living example of how that can be true. So David and I decided to go find out, through the best research we could muster, what it would take to get a little girl to put her hands on a computer, to achieve the level of comfort and ease with the technology that little boys have because they play video games. We spent two and a half years conducting research; we spent another year and a half in advance development. Then we formed a spin-off company. In the research phase of the project at Interval, we partnered with a company called Cheskin Research, and these people — Davis Masten and Christopher Ireland — changed my mind entirely about what market research was and what it could be. They taught me how to look and see, and they did not do the incredibly stupid thing of saying to a child, ""Of all these things we already make you, which do you like best?"" — which gives you zero answers that are usable. So, what we did for the first two and a half years was four things: We did an extensive review of the literature in related fields, like cognitive psychology, spatial cognition, gender studies, play theory, sociology, primatology. Thank you Frans de Waal, wherever you are, I love you and I'd give anything to meet you. After we had done that with a pretty large team of people and discovered what we thought the salient issues were with girls and boys and playing — because, after all, that's really what this is about — we moved to the second phase of our work, where we interviewed adult experts in academia, some of the people who'd produced the literature that we found relevant. Also, we did focus groups with people who were on the ground with kids every day, like playground supervisors. We talked to them, confirmed some hypotheses and identified some serious questions about gender difference and play. Then we did what I consider to be the heart of the work: interviewed 1,100 children, boys and girls, ages seven to 12, all over the United States — except for Silicon Valley, Boston and Austin because we knew that their little families would have millions of computers in them and they wouldn't be a representative sample. And at the end of those remarkable conversations with kids and their best friends across the United States, after two years, we pulled together some survey data from another 10,000 children, drew up a set up of what we thought were the key findings of our research, and spent another year transforming them into design heuristics, for designing computer-based products — and, in fact, any kind of products — for little girls, ages eight to 12. And we spent that time designing interactive prototypes for computer software and testing them with little girls. In 1996, in November, we formed the company Purple Moon which was a spinoff of Interval Research, and our chief investors were Interval Research, Vulcan Northwest, Institutional Venture Partners and Allen and Company. We launched a website on September 2nd that has now served 25 million pages, and has 42,000 registered young girl users. They visit an average of one and a half times a day, spend an average of 35 minutes a visit, and look at 50 pages a visit. So we feel that we've formed a successful online community with girls. We launched two titles in October — ""Rockett's New School"" — the first of a series of products — is about a character called Rockett beginning her first day of school in eighth grade at a brand new place, with a blank slate, which allows girls to play with the question of, ""What will I be like when I'm older?"" ""What's it going to be like to be in high school or junior high school? Who are my friends?""; to exercise the love of social complexity and the narrative intelligence that drives most of their play behavior; and which embeds in it values about noticing that we have lots of choices in our lives and the ways that we conduct ourselves. The other title that we launched is called ""Secret Paths in the Forest,"" which addresses the more fantasy-oriented, inner lives of girls. These two titles both showed up in the top 50 entertainment titles in PC Data — entertainment titles in PC Data in December, right up there with ""John Madden Football,"" which thrills me to death. So, we're real, and we've touched several hundreds of thousands of little girls. We've made half-a-billion impressions with marketing and PR for this brand, Purple Moon. Ninety-six percent of them, roughly, have been positive; four percent of them have been ""other."" I want to talk about the other, because the politics of this enterprise, in a way, have been the most fascinating part of it, for me. There are really two kinds of negative reviews that we've received. One kind of reviewer is a male gamer who thinks he knows what games ought to be, and won't show the product to little girls. The other kind of reviewer is a certain flavor of feminist who thinks they know what little girls ought to be. And so it's funny to me that these interesting, odd bedfellows have one thing in common: they don't listen to little girls. They haven't looked at children and they're certainly not demonstrating any love for them. I'd like to play you some voices of little girls from the two-and-a-half years of research that we did — actually, some of the voices are more recent. And these voices will be accompanied by photographs that they took for us of their lives, of the things that they value and care about. These are pictures the girls themselves never saw, but they gave to us This is the stuff those reviewers don't know about and aren't listening to and this is the kind of research I recommend to those who want to do humanistic work. Girl 1: Yeah, my character is usually a tomboy. Hers is more into boys. Girl 2: Uh, yeah. Girl 1: We have — in the very beginning of the whole game, always we do this: we each have a piece of paper; we write down our name, our age — are we rich, very rich, not rich, poor, medium, wealthy, boyfriends, dogs, pets — what else — sisters, brothers, and all those. Girl 2: Divorced — parents divorced, maybe. Girl 3: This is my pretend [unclear] one. Girl 4: We make a school newspaper on the computer. Girl 5: For a girl's game also usually they'll have really pretty scenery with clouds and flowers. Girl 6: Like, if you were a girl and you were really adventurous and a real big tomboy, you would think that girls' games were kinda sissy. Girl 7: I run track, I played soccer, I play basketball, and I love a lot of things to do. And sometimes I feel like I can't really enjoy myself unless it's like a vacation, like when I get Mondays and all those days off. Girl 8: Well, sometimes there is a lot of stuff going on because I have music lessons and I'm on swim team — all this different stuff that I have to do, and sometimes it gets overwhelming. Girl 9: My friend Justine kinda took my friend Kelly, and now they're being mean to me. Girl 10: Well, sometimes it gets annoying when your brothers and sisters, or brother or sister, when they copy you and you get your idea first and they take your idea and they do it themselves. Girl 11: Because my older sister, she gets everything and, like, when I ask my mom for something, she'll say, ""No"" — all the time. But she gives my sister everything. Brenda Laurel: I want to show you, real quickly, just a minute of ""Rockett's Tricky Decision,"" which went gold two days ago. Let's hope it's really stable. This is the second day in Rockett's life. The reason I'm showing you this is I'm hoping that the scene that I'm going to show you will look familiar and sound familiar, now that you've listened to some girls' voices. And you can see how we've tried to incorporate the issues that matter to them in the game that we've created. Miko: Hey Rockett! C'mere! Rockett: Hi Miko! What's going on? Miko: Did you hear about Nakilia's big Halloween party this weekend? She asked me to make sure you knew about it. Nakilia invited Reuben too, but — Rockett: But what? Isn't he coming? Miko: I don't think so. I mean, I heard his band is playing at another party the same night. Rockett: Really? What other party? Girl: Max's party is going to be so cool, Whitney. He's invited all the best people. BL: I'm going to fast-forward to the decision point because I know I don't have a lot of time. After this awful event occurs, Rocket gets to decide how she feels about it. Rockett: Who'd want to show up at that party anyway? I could get invited to that party any day if I wanted to. Gee, I doubt I'll make Max's best people list. BL: OK, so we're going to emotionally navigate. If we were playing the game, that's what we'd do. If at any time during the game we want to learn more about the characters, we can go into this hidden hallway, and I'll quickly just show you the interface. We can, for example, go find Miko's locker and get some more information about her. Oops, I turned the wrong way. But you get the general idea of the product. I wanted to show you the ways, innocuous as they seem, in which we're incorporating what we've learned about girls — their desires to experience greater emotional flexibility, and to play around with the social complexity of their lives. I want to make the point that what we're giving girls, I think, through this effort, is a kind of validation, a sense of being seen. And a sense of the choices that are available in their lives. We love them. We see them. We're not trying to tell them who they ought to be. But we're really, really happy about who they are. It turns out they're really great. I want to close by showing you a videotape that's a version of a future game in the Rockett series that our graphic artists and design people put together, that we feel would please that four percent of reviewers. ""Rockett 28!"" Rockett: It's like I'm just waking up, you know? BL: Thanks."	"1992年，我開始為一家名為Interval Research的公司工作當時這家公司才剛成立創辦人是大衛利德與保羅艾倫是位於矽谷的一家營利研究企業 我跟大衛見面討論我能為他的公司做些甚麼當時我剛走出虛擬實境生意失敗的陰霾只能靠著四處演講還有寫作維生我從事遊戲產業廿多年來知道這種遊戲一向不被看好 大衛和我發現我倆有一個共同的疑問急待解答那就是""為什麼沒有人專為小女生設計電玩?""道理何在?這不可能只是男性主導下的結果這些人沒那麼精明這塊價值六十億美元的市場大餅懂得門路的人肯定想分一杯羹 問題究竟出在哪?談到我們的目標我得說Interval真的是以人為本的公司我是指傳統定義的以人為本理想上，人本主義能將慧眼獨具的實證研究與核心價值結合這套價值就是對人類充滿愛與尊敬人本主義的基本概念是不斷提升生活品質使人們願意行善有些事值得我們去做因為這些都是好事而慧眼獨具的實證研究有助於我們發掘為善之道 因此，跟一般人以為的恰好相反實證研究和人文價值間不存在利害衝突Interval Research公司就是現成的例子證明的確如此所以大衛和我決定要盡力研究找出讓小女生願意接觸電腦的祕訣從而享受科技帶來的舒適自在小男生玩電玩時就是這種感覺 我們花費兩年半時間進行研究接著又投入一年半時間深入研發然後成立了一家子公司在本計劃的研究階段我們和Cheskin Research公司合作而與大衛麥斯登及克里斯多福艾爾蘭等人共事徹底改變我對市場調查的看法重新認識它真正的功能他們教我如何觀察調查對象而且他們不會蠢到直接問小孩子""這幾樣東西裡頭，你最喜歡哪一樣?""這種問法不可能問出有用的答案 所以剛開頭的兩年半我們做了四件事：首先是大規模的文獻回顧探討相關領域的研究成果，例如認知心理學空間認知、性別研究遊戲論、社會學、靈長類動物學—-感謝你 法蘭茲杜佛，無論你在哪非常感激你，無論如何我要再見你一面 接著我們與一個龐大的團隊完成文獻回顧並且發現我們認為最核心的問題和男孩、女孩以及角色扮演有關因為，無論如何，這才是問題的癥結所在我們進行到研究工作的第二階段採訪學術界的成年專家他們之中有些人出版了相關的學術著作我們也與每天和小孩互動的人做焦點團體訪談像是遊樂場主管之類，跟他們聊一聊確認了一些假設找出和性別差異與遊戲有關的重要問題 然後我們著手我認為是核心的工作我們訪談了1100位兒童，男女都有他們的年齡介於7至12歲，來自全美各地但矽谷、波斯頓及奧斯丁的兒童除外因為我們知道這些地區的小家庭電腦多到氾濫所以這些兒童樣本不具代表性 這些對話真的很特別跟全美各地的孩子及他們的好朋友談完又過了兩年我們又蒐集了一萬名兒童的數據，得出本研究的重要發現再用一年時間將這些資料化為設計靈感用以設計電腦相關產品實際上是適用於8到12歲小女孩的各類產品我們花時間設計互動式電腦原型軟體讓小女孩試玩1996年11月，我們成立了Purple Moon公司作為Interval Research旗下的子公司主要投資人有Interval Research、Vulcan NorthwestInstitutional Venture Partners 及 Allen and Company 我們的網站於九月二日開通後至今累積了兩千五百萬網頁閱讀量並有四萬兩千名年輕女孩用戶註冊她們平均一天...造訪我們的網站一到兩次每次平均停留35分鐘瀏覽50個頁面所以我們覺得這個線上女孩社群相當成功 我們在十月份推出了兩款遊戲""洛綺特的新學校""這是系列產品的第一款，描述女主角洛綺特第一天上學的經歷敘述八年級的她如何在新環境裡展開新生活藉這遊戲女孩們能夠思索一些問題，像是""長大後的我會是甚麼樣子?""""上高中或國中後會是怎樣的生活?""""誰會跟我交朋友?""體驗複雜社交生活有哪些迷人之處，並享受引導遊戲的故事情節遊戲情節中隱含了一種價值觀就是無論是生活或做人處事，我們都有很多選擇 另一款遊戲叫做""神秘森林小徑""描述少女夢幻的內心世界這兩款遊戲都擠進北美PC遊戲銷售榜前五十名PC遊戲銷售榜前五十名12月時竟然跟""約翰麥登橄欖球""這款暢銷遊戲並列差點沒把我給嚇死是阿，我們辦到了我們成功觸動了數十萬少女的心我們創造五億多的曝光率透過行銷與推廣Purple Moon這個品牌大約96%的人對我們印象不錯剩下4%的人有不同看法我想談談這4%的部分因為這家企業的戰術運用就某方面而言是最吸引我的部分 我們收到的負面評價分為兩大類一派是男性玩家的評論他們自以為很懂遊戲不會給女孩子玩我們的產品另一派帶點女性主義調調的評論家自以為很了解小女孩該有的樣子奇怪的是，這些奇怪又難相處的傢伙有一項共同點就是不會傾聽小女孩的心聲他們從未好好觀察過孩子哪有可能做出甚麼愛孩子的舉動我想讓你們聽聽小女孩的心聲取材自我們過去兩年半的研究材料事實上有些部分是最近才錄製的這些聲音將搭配照片一起播放這些照片是她們拍自己的日常生活和她們珍惜的事物這些照片她們自己也沒看過，卻交給我們全是那些批評者不了解也不想了解的東西這個研究題目，我要推薦給想從事人文研究的諸位 女孩1：對阿，我的個性比較男孩子氣她比我還像男生 女孩2：呃，沒錯。 女孩1：我們每次...剛開始玩遊戲時會這樣做每人拿一張紙，寫下自己的名字、年紀我們有錢嗎？超有錢、不怎麼有錢、窮酸啦、小康啦、家財萬貫啦男朋友啦、小狗啦、寵物啦..還有什麼?...兄弟姊妹..等等之類的 女孩2：離婚...爸媽離婚，之類的 女孩3：這個是我想像出來的 女孩4：我們會在電腦上製作校刊 女孩5：給女生玩的遊戲通常場景都超華麗又是雲又是花譬如說，你雖然身為女生偏偏天生愛冒險又非常男孩子氣你八成會覺得這種女生遊戲太女孩子氣了 女孩6：我跑步、踢足球也打籃球，我喜歡做的事情很多有時候我實在開心不起來，除非放假最好放禮拜一，或者天天放假也不賴 女孩7：嗯，有時候我好多事情要忙因為我要學音樂，又是游泳隊隊員一大堆亂七八糟的事情等著我有時候實在忙不過來我朋友賈斯汀拉攏我朋友凱莉，兩個聯手起來對付我 女孩8：唉，有時候家裡有兄弟姊妹超煩的他們會抄襲你的主意，雖然明明是你先想到的他們偷了你的點子然後自己拿去用 女孩9：都要怪我老姊，她要什麼有什麼我跟老媽討個東西她就說""別想""，每次都這樣但對我老姊卻有求必應 布蘭妲：我想很快地給各位看一下，一分鐘就好這個遊戲叫""洛綺特的難題""，兩天前才大功告成希望它很穩定這是洛綺特生活的第二天我之所以給各位看這個是希望待會兒秀出來的場景不管看起來或聽起來都有種熟悉感，尤其各位聽過女孩子的心聲後各位將明白我們如何把她們關心的問題融入遊戲中 (影片)蜜可：嗨 洛綺特！過來一下！ 洛綺特：嗨 蜜可！ 怎麼了嗎？ 蜜可：你知道娜其莉周末要辦一個大型萬聖節派對嗎？她要我問你知不知道娜琪莉也邀請魯本參加，不過... 洛綺特：不過什麼？他不來嗎？ 蜜可：我想他不會來了聽說他的樂團當天晚上要去另一個派對表演 洛綺特：真的嗎？哪一個派對？ 女孩：麥斯的派對一定很酷，惠特妮他邀的人都超讚 (布蘭妲羅莉)我必須快轉到她做決定那段我知道我沒有太多時間發生這麼糟糕的事之後，洛綺特必須決定她該如何應對 洛綺特：拜託，誰要去那種派對阿？只要我願意，隨時都會有人邀請我去唉，我不確定麥斯會不會邀請我耶 好了，接下來我們讓感情來引導把玩遊戲當作真實人生假如玩的過程中我們想更了解遊戲主角我們可以走入這條隱形走廊我很快地給各位看一下遊戲介面例如，我們可以找出蜜可的儲物櫃獲得一些跟她有關的情報哎呀，我轉錯邊了不過你們應該抓到這個產品的概念了 我向各位展示的這些方法，雖然看似泛泛之談但裡頭加入了我們對女孩子的理解她們渴望體驗更細膩的情感變化遊走於複雜的社交生活之間我想強調的是，藉由這份努力，我們給予女孩子一種自我肯定一種被關注的感覺告訴她們生活可以有各種選擇我們愛她們關心她們我們不是要告訴她們要成為什麼樣的人得知她們原本的面貌令我們開心不已她們真的很棒 我想用一段影片作為結尾這個洛綺特系列遊戲的未來版是我們的插畫師跟設計團隊合作的結晶我們覺得應該會讓那4%的批評者滿意""洛綺特28"" 世界末日 洛綺特：我好像剛剛醒來... 謝謝大家"
