Talk	en	zh-tw
brewster_kahle_builds_a_free_digital_library	"We really need to put the best we have to offer within reach of our children. If we don't do that, we're going to get the generation we deserve. They're going to learn from whatever it is they have around them. And we, as now the elite, parents, librarians, professionals, whatever it is, a bunch of our activities are, in fact, in trying to get the best we have to offer within reach of those around us, or as broadly as we can. I'm going to start and end this talk with a couple things that are carved in stone. One is what's on the Boston Public Library. Carved above their door is, ""Free to All."" It's kind of an inspiring statement, and I'll go back at the end of this. I'm a librarian, and what I'm trying to do is bring all of the works of knowledge to as many people as want to read it. And the idea of using technology is perfect for us. I think we have the opportunity to one-up the Greeks. It's not easy to one-up the Greeks. But with the industriousness of the Egyptians, they were able to build the Library of Alexandria — the idea of a copy of every book of all the peoples of the world. The problem was you actually had to go to Alexandria to go to it. On the other hand, if you did, then great things happened. I think we can one-up the Greeks and achieve something. And I'm going to try to argue only one point today: that universal access to all knowledge is within our grasp. So if I'm successful, then you'll actually come away thinking, yeah, we could actually achieve the great vision of everything ever published, everything that was ever meant for distribution, available to anybody in the world that's ever wanted to have access to it. Yes, there's issues about how money should be distributed, and that's still being refigured out. But I'd say there's plenty of money, and there's plenty of demand, so we can actually achieve that. But I'm going to go over the technological, social and sort of where are we as a whole, trying to get to that particular vision. And the way I'm going to try to do this is do it like the Amazon.com website, the books, music, video and just go step — media type by media type, just go and say, all right, how're we doing on this? So if we start with books, you know, sort of where are we? Well, first you have to, as an engineer, scope the problem. How big is it? If you wanted to put all of the published works online so that anybody could have it available, well, how big a problem is it? Well, we don't really know, but the largest print library in the world is the Library of Congress. It's 26 million volumes, 26 million volumes. It is, by far and away, the largest print library in the world. And a book, if you had a book, is about a megabyte, so — you know, if you had it in Microsoft Word. So a megabyte, 26 million megabytes is 26 terabytes — it goes mega-, giga-, tera-. 26 terabytes. 26 terabytes fits in a computer system that's about this big, on spinning Linux drives, and it costs about 60,000 dollars. So for the cost of a house — or around here, a garage — you can put, you can have spinning all of the words in the Library of Congress. That's pretty neat. Then the question is, what do you get? You know, is it worth trying to get there? Do you actually want it online? Some of the first things that people do is they make book readers that allow you to search inside the books, and that's kind of fun. And you can download these things, and look around them in new and different ways. And you can get at them remotely, if you happen to have a laptop. There's starting to be some of these sort of page turn-y interfaces that look a whole lot like books in certain ways, and you can search them, make little tabs, and it's kind of cute — still very book-like — on your laptop. But I don't know, reading things on a laptop — whenever I pull up my laptop, it always feels like work. I think that's one of the reasons why the Kindle is so great. I don't have to feel like I'm at work to read a Kindle. It's starting to be a little bit more specified. But I have to say that there's older technologies that I tend to like. I like the physical book. And I think we can go and use our technology to go and digitize things, put them on the Net, and then download, print them and bind them, and end up with books again. And we sort of said, well, how hard is this? And it turns out to not be very hard. We actually went off to make a bookmobile. And a bookmobile — the size of a van with a satellite dish, a printer, binder and cutter, and kids make their own books. It costs about three dollars to download, print and bind a normal, old book. And they actually come out kind of nice looking. You can actually get really good-looking books for on the order of one penny per page, sort of the parts cost for doing this. So the idea of — this technology actually may end up putting books back in people's hands again. There are some other bookmobiles running around. This is Eric Eldred making books at Walden Pond — Thoreau's works. This is just before he got kicked out by the Parks Services, for competing with the bookstore there. In India, they've got another couple bookmobiles running around. And this is the opening day at the Library of Alexandria, the new Library of Alexandria, in Egypt. It was quite popularly attended. And kids starting to make their own books, and a happy kid with the first book that he's ever owned. So the idea of being able to use this technology to end up with paper where I can handle sort of sounds a little retro, but I think it still has its place. And being from the Silicon Valley, sort of utopian sort of world, we thought, if we can make this technology work in rural Uganda, we might have something. So we actually got some funding from the World Bank to try it out. And we found in about 30 days we could go and take a couple folks from Silicon Valley, fly them to Uganda, buy a car, set up the first Internet connection at the National Library of Uganda, figure out what they wanted, and get a program going making books in rural Uganda. And it actually — so technologically, it works. What we found out of this is we didn't have the right books. So the books were in the library. We could get it to people, if they're digitized, but we didn't know how to quite get them digitized. Everybody thought the answer is, send things to India and China. And so we've tried that, and I'll go over that in a moment. There are some newer technologies for delivering that have happened that are actually quite exciting as well. One is a print-on-demand machine that looks like a Rube Goldberg machine. We have one of these things now. It's completely cool. It's all conveyor belt, and it makes a book. And it's called the ""Espresso Book Machine,"" and in about 10 minutes, you can press a button and make a book. Something else I'm quite excited about in this particular domain, beyond these sort of kiosk-y things where you can get books on demand, is some of these new little screens that are coming out. And one of my favorites in this is the $100 laptop. And I don't mean to steal any thunder here, but we've gone and used one of these things to be an e-book reader. So here's one of the beta units and you can — it actually turns out to be a really good-looking e-book reader. And we have a quick hack that we did to try to put one of our books on it, and it turns out that 200 dots per inch means that you can put scanned books on them that look really good. At 200 dots per inch, it's kind of the equivalent of a 300 dot print laser printer. We're in good enough shape. You actually can go and read scanned books quite easily. So the idea of electronic books is starting to come about. But how do you go about doing all this scanning? So we thought, okay, well, let's try out this send books to India thing. And there was a project with, funded by the National Science Foundation — sent a bunch of scanners, and the American libraries were supposed to send books. Well, they didn't. They didn't want to send their books. So we bought 100,000 books and sent them to India. And then we learned why you don't want to send books to India. The lesson we learned out of this is, scan your own books. If you really care about books, you're going to scan them better, especially if they're valuable books. If they're new books and you can just, you know, butcher them, because you could just buy another one, that's not such a big deal in terms of doing high-quality scanning. But do things that you love. But the Indians have been scanning a lot of their own books — about 300,000 now — doing very well. The Chinese did over a million, and the Egyptians are about 30,000. But we sent — thought, OK, if we're going to need to do this, let's do it in-library. How do we go and do this, and how do we get it down so that it's a cost point that we could afford? And we sort of picked the price point of 10 cents a page. If it's basically the cost of xeroxing to basically digitize, OCR, package it up, make it so that you could download, print and bind it — the whole shebang — we would have achieved something. So we started out trying to figure out. How do we get to 10 cents? And we tried these robot things, and they worked pretty well — sort of these auto-page-turning things. If we can have Mars Rovers, you'd think you could turn pages. But it actually turns out to be pretty hard to turn pages, and the volume isn't there. So anyway — so we ended up making our own book scanner, and with two digital, high-grade, professional digital cameras, controlled museum lighting, so even if it's a black and white book, you can go and get the proper intonation. So you basically do a beautiful, respectful job. This is not a fax, this is — the idea is to do a beautiful job as you're going through these libraries. And we've been able to achieve 10 cents a page if we run things in volume. This is what it looks like at the University of Toronto. And actually, it turns out to, you know, pay a living wage. People seem to love it. Yes, it's a little boring, but some people kind of get into the Zen of it. (Laughter) And especially if it's kind of interesting books that you care about, in languages that you can read. We actually have been able to do a pretty good job of this, at getting 10 cents a page. So 10 cents a page, 300 pages in your average book, 30 dollars a book. The Library of Congress, if you did the whole darn thing — 26 million books — is about 750 million dollars, right? But a million books, I think, actually would be a pretty good start, and that would cost 30 million dollars. That's not that big a bill. And what we've been able to do is get into libraries. We've now got eight of these scanning centers in three countries, and libraries are up for having their books scanned. The Getty here is moving their books to the UCLA, which is where we have one these scanning centers, and scanning their out-of-copyright books, which is fabulous. So we're starting to get the institutional responsibility. The thing we're missing is the 10 cents. If we can get the 10 cents, all the rest of it flows. We've scanned about 200,000 books. Now we're scanning about 15,000 books a month, and it's starting to gear up another factor of two from there. So all in all, that's going very well. And we're starting to move out of the just out-of-copyright into the out-of-print world. So I think of — we're kind of going from the out-of-copyright, library stuff, and Amazon.com is coming from the in-print world. And I think we'll meet in the middle some place, and have the classic thing that you have, which is a publishing system and a library system working in parallel. And so we're starting up a program to do out-of-print works, but loaning them. Exactly what loaning means, I'm not quite sure. But anyway, loaning out-of-print works from the Boston Public Library, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and a few other libraries that are starting to participate in this program, to try out this model of where does a library stop and where does the bookstore take over. So all in all, it's possible to do this in large scale. We're also going back over microfilm and getting that online. So, we can do 10 cents a page, we're going 15,000 books a month and we've got about 250,000 books online, counting all the other projects that are starting to add in. So what I wanted to argue is, books are within our grasp. The idea of taking on the whole ball of wax is not that big a deal. Yes, it costs tens of millions, low hundreds of millions, but one time shot and we've got basically the history of printed literature online. And then, there's business model issues about how to try to effectively market it and get it to people. But it is within our grasp, technologically and law-wise, at least for the out of print and out of copyright, we suggest, to be able to get the whole darn thing online. Now let's go for audio, and I'm going to go through these. So how much is there? Well, as best we can tell, there are about two to three million disks having been published — so 78s, long-playing records and CDs — or at least that's the largest archives of published materials we've been able to sort of point at. It costs about 10 dollars a piece to go and take a disk and put it online, if you're doing things in volume. But we've found that the rights issues are really quite thorny. This is a fairly heavily litigated area, so we've found that there are niches in the music world that aren't served terribly well by the classic commercial publishing system. And we've been starting to make these available by going and offering shelf space on the Net. In the United States, it doesn't cost you to give something away. Right? If you give something to a charity or to the public, you get a pat on the back and a tax donation — except on the Net, where you can go broke. If you put up a video of your garage band, and it starts getting heavily accessed, you can lose your guitars or your house. This doesn't make any sense. So we've offered unlimited storage, unlimited bandwidth, forever, for free, to anybody that has something to share that belongs in a library. And we've been getting a lot of takers. One is the rock 'n' rollers. The rock 'n' rollers had a tradition of sharing, as long as nobody made any money. You could — concert recordings, it's not the commercial recordings, but concert recordings, started by the Grateful Dead. And we get about two or three bands a day signing up. They give permission, and we get about 40 or 50 concerts a day. We have about 40,000 concerts, everything the Grateful Dead ever did, up on the Net, so that people can see it and listen to this material. So audio is possible to put up, but the rights issues are really pretty thorny. We've got a lot of collections now — a couple hundred thousand items — and it's growing over time. Moving images: if you think of theatrical releases, there are not that many of them. As best we can tell, there are about 150,000 to 200,000 movies ever that are really meant for a large-scale theatrical distribution. It's just not that many. But half of those were Indian. But anyway, it's doable, but we've only found about a thousand of these things that — to be out of copyright. So we've digitized those and made those available. But we've found that there's lots of other types of movies that haven't really seen the light of day — archival films. We've found, also, a lot of political films, a lot of amateur films, all sorts of things that are basically needing a home, a permanent home. So we've been starting to make these available and it's grown to be very popular. We're not quite a YouTube. We tended towards longer-term things and also things that people can reuse and make into new movies, which has just been great fun. Television comes quite a bit larger. We started recording 20 channels of television 24 hours a day. It's sort of the biggest TiVo box you've ever seen. It's about a petabyte, so far, of worldwide television — Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Iraqi, Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN, ABC, CBS, NBC — 24 hours a day. We only put one week up, which is mostly for cost reasons, which is the 9/11, sort of from 9/11/2001. For one week, what did the world see? CNN was saying that Palestinians were dancing in the streets. Were they? Let's look at the Palestinian television and find out. How can we have critical thinking without being able to quote and being able to compare what happened in the past? And television is dreadfully unrecorded and unquotable, except by Jon Stewart, who does a fabulous job. So anyway, television is, I would suggest, within our grasp. So 15 dollars per video hour, and also about 100 dollars to 150 dollars per celluloid hour, we're able to go and get materials online very inexpensively and have them up on the Net. And we've got, now, a lot of these materials. So we've got about 100,000 pieces up there. So books, music, video, software. There's only 50,000 titles of it. Mostly the issues there are legal issues and breaking copy protections. But we've worked through some of those, but we've still got real problems in Washington. Well, we're best known as the World Wide Web. We've been archiving the World Wide Web since 1996. We take a snapshot of every website and all of the pages on it, every two months. And actually, it's really been pioneered by Alexa Internet, which donates this collection to the Internet Archive. And it's been growing along for the last 11 years, and it's a fantastic resource. And we've made a Wayback Machine that you can then go and see old websites kind of the way they were. If you go and search on something — this is Google.com, the different versions of it that we have, this is what it looks like when it was an alpha release, and this is what it looked like at Stanford. So anyway, you've got basically an idea of where things came from. Mostly, people want to see their old stuff out of this. If there's one thing that we want to learn from the Library of Alexandria version one, which is probably best known for burning, is, don't just have one copy. So we've started to — we've made another copy of all of this and we actually put it back in the Library of Alexandria. So this is a picture of the Internet Archive at the Library of Alexandria. And we now have also another copy building up in Amsterdam. So, we should put it in the San Andreas Fault Line in San Francisco, flood zone in Amsterdam and in the Middle East. Right, so anyway ... so we're hedging our bets here. If we go and put it in a couple more places, I think we'll be in good shape. There's a political and social question out of this. Is all of this, as we go digital, is it going to be public or private? There's some large companies that have seen this vision, that are doing large-scale digitization, but they're locking up the public domain. The question is, is that the world that we really want to live in? What's the role of the public versus the private as things go forward? How do we go and have a world where we both have libraries and publishing in the future, just as we basically benefited as we were growing up? So universal access to all knowledge — I think it can be one of the greatest achievements of humankind, like the man on the moon, or the Gutenberg Bible, or the Library of Alexandria. It could be something that we're remembered for, for millennia, for having achieved. And as I said before, I'll end with something that's carved above the door of the Carnegie Library. Carnegie — one of the great capitalists of this country — carved above his legacy, ""Free to the People."" Thank you very much."	"我們必須將最好的資訊提供給我們的下一代，讓他們隨手可得如果我們不這麼做，我們會有自作自受的下一代他們會從任何在身邊可得到的資訊學習 社會菁英、家長、圖書館員、專業人士以及其他各界人士已發展各式各樣的活動來提供最好的資訊讓我們身邊的人隨手可得，並儘量將範圍擴大在這場演講開頭以及結束，我都會提到刻在石碑上的文字其中一段文字是刻在波士頓公共圖書館的石碑上石碑上刻著，""全面開放免費使用""這是句相當具有啟發性的宣言我將會再演講結束時再一次的提到它，我是一個圖書館員，我的工作是將知識提供給任何想要閱讀的人們運用科技技術對我們而言已是相當的理想了我認為我們有機會超越希臘人要超越希臘人並不容易。但是靠著如埃及人般的勤勉他們建立了亞歷山大圖書館—收藏全世界每一本書的想法問題是你必需親自到亞歷山大另一方面，如果你到了亞歷山大，就會發生偉大的事件我認為我們可以超越希臘人並有所成就今天我只强調一個觀點：知識由全人類共享這個理想已在伸手可及的範圍如果我成功了，日後你會這麼想我們達成偉大的目標—將所有曾經出版以及所有曾經想要出版的知識提供給所有想要取得知識的人們 是的,我們有資金分配的問題我們正在重新估算但是我們有充份的資金，同時也有大量的需求因此我們真的可以達成這個目標但是我會逐步探討在技術層面、社會層面以及目前進行的成果以達到這個目標我進行的步驟類似亞馬遜網站逐步的依照圖書、音樂、影片等媒體類型進行好的那我們該如何進行? 如果我們從書籍開始，目前的進展如何？如同一位工程師，首先你必須要界定問題。有多少數量的圖書？假如你希望將所有已出版的圖書數位化所有人都可以在網路上看到，這個問題會有多大?我們不知道確實的數字，但是世界上最大的實體圖書館美國國會國家圖書館—它的館藏量是二千六百萬冊圖書它是目前世界上最大的實體圖書館一本電子書大約需要一百萬位元(megabyte)的記憶體如果使用的檔案格式是Word一本電子書一百萬位元(megabyte)，二千六百萬個百萬位元就是26兆位元(terabytes)百萬位元(mega)、十億位元(giga)、兆位元(tera)、26兆位元(terabytes)26兆位元檔案所需電腦系統大概有這麼大以Linux硬碟運轉，大概需要60,000美元以一間房子的價格—或者是在這附近一個車庫的價格你就可以運轉美國國會圖書館的所有文字資料這真的很酷 接下來的問題是：你得到什麼？這麼做值得嗎?真的需要數位化？首先做到的是讀者可以搜尋圖書內全文，這點相當有趣你可以下載，用新的、不同的方式瀏覽如果你有台筆記型電腦，你可以遠端下載目前已有一些頁面翻轉界面看起來很像一本書你可以搜尋全文，設定小標籤 ，相當的有趣在你的筆記型電腦上看起來像是一本書但是我不太肯定，是否要用筆記型電腦看書每當打開我的筆記型電腦，就覺得像是在工作這就是為什麼Kindle如此的棒我用Kindle看書時不會覺得我在工作接下來要談到比較特定的內容我必須承認我比較偏好舊的技術我喜歡紙本書我們可以利用科技將圖書數位化將電子書放到網路上讓人下載列印電子書、裝訂、再變成一本書 我們可以問，這件事難不難？事實上並不困難我們已著手製造了一台流動圖書館流動圖書館—廂型車的大小配備一台小耳朶一台印表機、一台裝訂機以及截切機，小孩可以列印自己的書下載、列印以及裝訂一本普通的舊書的成本約三塊美元印出來的書看起來還不錯事實上，印出來的書相當好看以每頁1分美金的價格，也就是製作成本 這種技術觀念可能最後可能發展成將紙本書送回大家手中有其他幾台流動圖書館四處巡迴這是Eric Eldred在瓦爾登湖(Walden Pond)，梭羅(Thoreau的)作品這張照片是他在被公園管理當局趕走之前拍攝的因為他會與那裡的書店競爭生意在印度，也有幾台流動圖書館四處巡迴這是亞歷山大圖書館的開幕日在埃及，新開幕的亞歷山大圖書館有相當多的民眾參與孩子列印自己的書拿著第一本屬於自己的書的快樂小孩運用這種技術再回到紙本書，我做的事好像是在走回頭路但還是有它存在的價值有點源自於矽谷，有點源自於烏托邦還有點源自於全球化我認為如果我們可以在烏干達的農村運用這種技術我們也許會有所成就因此我們從世界銀行取得資金來試行我們可以在30天內出發，從矽谷找幾位工作人員飛到烏干達，買一台車，設定網路連線在烏干達國家圖書館，找出他們真正的需要在烏干達的農村設定印書程序在技術層面，它是行的通的 從這個事件，我們發現沒有合適的圖書圖書都存放在圖書館內。數位化讓大家可以取得但是我們還不清楚如何完成數位化所有人都認為解決的方法是交由印度與中國處理我們曾試圖這麼做，待會再提到這點目前有較新的傳輸技術其成果也相當令人振奮一台客製化圖書印製機器看起來像小題大作的魯比高堡機器現在我們有一台這樣的機器。這相當酷全用輸送帶運轉，可以列印圖書我們將它命名為""快速圖書製造機""按下按紐十分鐘就印好一本書 在這個領域中，還有另一件事情令我相當興奮除了有點像是資訊站的客製化印製圖書機器還有一些新款的小筆電其中我最喜歡的是百元筆電我無意要捷足先登但我們已開始使用這台機器做為電子書閱讀器這是其中一款測試機型—它已成為一台相當好看的電子書閱讀器我們有一個快速破解法，可以放入我們的電子書它的解析度可以達到200dpi(解析度)也就是說放入經由掃描的圖書，效果相當不錯200dpi，相當於雷射印表機的300dpi我們目前的狀況相當好你很容易就可以閱讀經由掃描的電子書 電子書的觀念正在發展但要如何完成所有的掃描作業?因此我們嘗試要將圖書送到印度處理由全國科學基金會贊助一項企畫送出一批掃描機，原本美國的圖書館要提供圖書他們沒有提供圖書—他們不願意提供他們的館藏因此我們買了十萬本書送到印度然後我們才了解為什麼不要將圖書送到印度我們學到的經驗是，要自己掃描自己的書如果你真的在意這本書，你就會好好的掃描尤其是珍貴的圖書如果是新書你可以把他弄壞因為你只需再買一本高品質的掃描並不難做你喜歡的事印度人已經掃描一些他們自己的圖書—目前約有三十萬冊—做的相當好中國人已掃描超過百萬冊，埃及人大約已掃描三萬冊 如果這件事必須進行，就讓我們在圖書館內進行要如何進行，要如何完成我們是否負擔得起經費?我們以每頁10分美金來估算全部的費用基本上包含影印、數位化以及光學文學辨識來完成下載、列印以及裝訂全部的工作流程我們就可以有所成就因此我們試著將預算如何控制在10分美金我們嘗試這些機器人設備， 它們運作的相當好有點像自動翻頁機如果我們可以製造火星漫遊號(Mars Rovers)，也就可以製造翻頁機但是事實上要翻頁非常困難，兩頁中間沒有空間最後我們製造出自己的圖書掃描機二台高品質專業數位攝影機可調控的博物館級燈光—即使是黑白的圖書你可以調整到適合的色調基本上你可以做的即美觀又體面這不是一台傳真機，就要要做好一件事如同你進到圖書館如果我們大量的進行，我們可以做到每頁10分美金這是在多倫多大學的情況事實上是付基本工資大家似乎很喜歡是的，有些無趣，但是有些人已進入禪定(笑聲)特別是你關注的有趣圖書使用你自己的語言我們已經有辦法做到控制在每頁10分美金因此每頁10分美金，每本書平均300頁，一本書30元美金如果你要描掃美國國會圖書館的圖書-全部數位化有二千六百萬冊圖書—大約需要七億五百萬美金但是一百萬冊圖書—是個相當不錯的開始需要三千萬的資金。資金並不高 我們的做法是進駐到圖書館¾我們在三個國家共有八個掃描中心有些圖書館期望掃描他們的館藏Getty正將他們的圖書搬到UCLA在那裡有我們有一個掃描中心掃描已超過版權保護期限的圖書，效果好極了我們開始負起機構責任我們欠缺的是那10分美金如果可以做到每頁10分美金，其他的就沒有問題我們已經掃描了二十萬本圖書目前我們一個月大約掃描一萬五千本圖書開始增加到二倍的數量 總而言之，進行的相當順利我們開始從掃描超過版權保護的圖書轉為掃描絶版書我們的來源是超過版權保護的圖書館藏書亞馬遜的來源是有版權的圖書我們會在某個中間點會合以傳統的方法運作也就是出版系統與圖書館系統平行運作我們發展一套計畫來掃描絶版書，不過是借來的我不太能定義何謂借來的就是從波士頓公共圖書館借來絕版書Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute及其他一些圖書館開始參與這個計畫在圖書館無法到達的地方嘗試這種模式以及在書店林立的地方嘗試這種模式總而言之，儘可能將範圍擴大我們也回溯微縮片，將它數位化每頁10分美金，我們每個月掃描15,000冊圖書館我們大約有250,000冊圖書數位化預估正在加入的其他計畫我要表達的是，圖書已隨手可得整個計畫的實行並沒有特別因難需要千萬美金的資金，一、二億美金的資金但是只要做這一次，大致上就可以將歷史上的出版品數位化接下來就是商業模式的議題如何有效的推廣給一般民眾以我們技術層面以及法律常識的認知至少絕版書以及超過版權保護期限的我們建議要全面的數位化 我接著要談聲音檔的數位化聲音檔的容量有多大?就我們所知道的，已發行的唱片約二、三百萬張重刻盤、黑膠唱片、CD—至少會是已發行資料的最大資料庫我們可以朝這個方向進行一張唱片數位化需要10元美金這是大量數位化的費用我們發現版權問題相當具有爭議性這個領域的法律訴訟相當嚴重因此我們找到音樂世界裡的利基在傳統商業發行系統被嚴重地忽略我們開始讓這些檔案在網路上流通以及提供檔案空間在美國捐贈是不需任何付費的。是不是?如果你捐贈給慈善機構或一般大眾你會得到別人的稱讚或是捐贈可以退稅—網路世界例外，你會因而破產如果將你的的影片配上音樂放到網路，讓影片廣泛流傳你可能會因此失去你的吉他或你的房子 這完全没有道理因此我們免費提供無限的網站空間，無限的頻寬讓所有人分享屬於圖書館的資源我們有許多供應者。其中之一是搖滾樂搖滾樂有分享的傳統只要你不因此獲利。你可以—音樂會的錄音，不是用於商業之上但是音樂會的錄音，從Grateful Dead樂團開始每天約有一、二個樂團加入簽約他們每天簽下約40或50場音樂會的授權我們有四萬場音樂會，Grateful Dead樂團的所有音樂會已上傳至網路，因此人們可以看到和聽到因此聲音檔是可以建立的，但是版權問題令人相當苦惱目前我們有大量的收藏—數百萬件—隨著時間成長 影片：如果你想到的商業電影商業電影並不多最多大約有15萬到20萬部電影他們是商業發行電影。只是數量並不多但是半數是印度電影無論如何，這件事是可行的但是我們只發現約有一千部商業電影—是超過版權保護期限的因此我們將它數位化，讓他們可以流通但是我們發現有許多其他類型的電影我們尚未發展的還有—檔案影片我們還發現有許多政治影片，許多業餘影片各類電影基本上需要一個家，一個永久的家因此我們已開始讓他們流通，非常受到歡迎我們和YouTube不太一樣我們偏向於較長的影片還可以重新編輯以製作新的電影影片這會有相當大的樂趣 電視檔案的容量更大我們開始每天24小時的錄下20個電視頻道的節目有點像是有史以來最大的TiVo數位電視錄影機目前全球的電視檔案大約有5PB—蘇俄，中國， 日本，伊拉克，半島電視台，BBC，CNN ，ABC，CBS，NBC—每天24小時我們只保留一週的內容最主要是為了成本考量，9/11從2001/9/11開始:一週內，全世界如何看這件事?CNN說巴基斯坦人在街頭跳舞慶祝他們有嗎？讓我們看巴基斯坦的電視找到真象我們如何會有判斷性的思考，如果我們不能引用以及比較過去發生的事件?電視內容很少被錄製，很少被引用除了Jon Steward，他做的非常棒我認為電視內容我們掌控的很好每小時的影片需要15美元，每小時的電影約需要100到150美元我們可以不需花很多錢就可以將這些資料放到網路上目前我們已有許多這類型的資料我們有十萬件以上的影片放到網路上圖書、音樂、影片、軟體—只有五萬個標題大多的議題是法律議題以及違反版權保護但是我們已克服其中一些問題但是我們在華盛頓遇到真正的難題 我們以World Wide Web著名自從1996我們在World Wide Web儲存檔案每二個月我們為所有網站儲存所有的頁面事實上這是由Alexa Internet開發再將這份收藏捐給網際網路資料庫過去11年一再成長，已是個了不起的資源我們製造了一個「時空倒流機」你可以看到網站以往的頁面這是當年的Google網站和我們目前使用的是不同的版本這個看起來像是測試版這個看起來像是在史丹福你可以大略知道它是如何發展大多數的人想從這裡看他們以往的頁面從亞歷山大圖書館第一版我們學到一件事亞歷山大圖書館因被燒毀而聞名不可只有一個備份因此我們拷貝一個備份我們真的把它放回亞歷山大圖書館這是亞歷山大圖書館網際網路資料庫的照片目前我們在阿姆斯特丹也有一個備份我們應該放一份在舊金山的聖安德里斯斷層阿姆斯特丹的漲潮地帶以及中東所以我們在押賭注如果我們多放在幾個地方，我們就可以完好無傷 從這裡洐生出一個政治及社會問題數位化之後，它是公共的還是私人的？有一些大公司看到這個遠景大規模的進行數位化但他們局限在公共領域問題是：這真的是我們要居住的世界？繼續發展下去，公共與私人的角色如何界定？圖書館與出版界將如何運作使得雙方在發展時可以相互受益？全體人類都能取得所有的知識—這會是人類最大的成就之一如同月球漫步，古騰堡聖經，或亞歷山大圖書館。人們會記得我們在千禧年的所達到的成就正如之前我提到的，在演講結束時刻在卡內基圖書館門上的文字卡內基—美國偉大的資本家—在他的遺產上刻著:「全民免費」謝謝"
