Talk	en	zh-tw
brian_cox_what_went_wrong_at_the_lhc	"Last year at TED I gave an introduction to the LHC. And I promised to come back and give you an update on how that machine worked. So this is it. And for those of you that weren't there, the LHC is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted — 27 kilometers in circumference. Its job is to recreate the conditions that were present less than a billionth of a second after the universe began, up to 600 million times a second. It's nothing if not ambitious. This is the machine below Geneva. We take the pictures of those mini-Big Bangs inside detectors. This is the one I work on. It's called the ATLAS detector — 44 meters wide, 22 meters in diameter. Spectacular picture here of ATLAS under construction so you can see the scale. On the 10th of September last year we turned the machine on for the first time. And this picture was taken by ATLAS. It caused immense celebration in the control room. It's a picture of the first beam particle going all the way around the LHC, colliding with a piece of the LHC deliberately, and showering particles into the detector. In other words, when we saw that picture on September 10th we knew the machine worked, which is a great triumph. I don't know whether this got the biggest cheer, or this, when someone went onto Google and saw the front page was like that. It means we made cultural impact as well as scientific impact. About a week later we had a problem with the machine, related actually to these bits of wire here — these gold wires. Those wires carry 13 thousand amps when the machine is working in full power. Now the engineers amongst you will look at them and say, ""No they don't. They're small wires."" They can do that because when they are very cold they are what's called superconducting wire. So at minus 271 degrees, colder than the space between the stars, those wires can take that current. In one of the joints between over 9,000 magnets in LHC, there was a manufacturing defect. So the wire heated up slightly, and its 13,000 amps suddenly encountered electrical resistance. This was the result. Now that's more impressive when you consider those magnets weigh over 20 tons, and they moved about a foot. So we damaged about 50 of the magnets. We had to take them out, which we did. We reconditioned them all, fixed them. They're all on their way back underground now. By the end of March the LHC will be intact again. We will switch it on, and we expect to take data in June or July, and continue with our quest to find out what the building blocks of the universe are. Now of course, in a way those accidents reignite the debate about the value of science and engineering at the edge. It's easy to refute. I think that the fact that it's so difficult, the fact that we're overreaching, is the value of things like the LHC. I will leave the final word to an English scientist, Humphrey Davy, who, I suspect, when defending his protege's useless experiments — his protege was Michael Faraday — said this, ""Nothing is so dangerous to the progress of the human mind than to assume that our views of science are ultimate, that there are no mysteries in nature, that our triumphs are complete, and that there are no new worlds to conquer."" Thank you. (Applause)"	去年的時候，我介紹過大型強子對撞機(LHC)我也應承過要在回來給大家介紹那些機器的運作狀況現在我們開始吧LHC是目前為止人類嘗試過的最大的科學實驗周長27公里它的任務就是要重建宇宙形成後的頭十億分之一秒的那一刻一秒鐘大概重建六億次這是個雄心勃勃的計畫 這台機器現在在日內瓦的地下我們照了些探測器里面的迷你大爆炸的照片我在這台上工作，ATLAS探測器44米寬，直徑22米這是興建ATLAS時的壯美圖片你瞧瞧介規模 去年9月10號我們第一次啟動LHC這張照片是ATLAD拍的這張引起了控制室的狂歡這是首張粒子束流沿著整個LHC運動的照片跟LHC盡情的碰撞把粒子射向探測器換句話說，當我們看到9月10號的照片時我們知道這部機器真的在工作了這是一次偉大的勝利我不知道這能否得到更大的歡呼或是這個，有人上googel的時候看到這張首頁圖片這說明了我們的文化影響力和科學影響力 大概一個星期後，機器出了點問題問題出現在那些銅線上那些線可以在機器滿負荷運轉時承載1萬3千安培的電流看著這些線，你們其中的一些工程師會說不會吧，他們只是很細的銅線啊那是因為當溫度很低的的時候，他們就變身為超導線所以在攝氏零下271度(逼近絕對零度)比星際還要冷這時候那些線就可以承載那些電流 在LHC里九千多個磁鐵的其中一個結合處會有製成不良所以這些線就會被加熱小小那1萬3千安培就突然遭遇電阻結果就是這樣更厲害的是你想像重達20頓的磁鐵被移動了大概一英尺我們損耗了大概50塊磁鐵我們得把這些大傢伙拿出來，而且我們做到了我們重新調整，修復這些磁鐵現在他們不歸位就在要歸位的路上了3月底，LHC就能修好了我們將重新啟動期待6月或7月，我們可以採集數據繼續去尋覓到底什麽是構成我們整個宇宙的最小單位 當然，從某種角度來說這次事件又激起了關於邊緣科學工程的價值問題的討論，這很容易反駁我想事實就是，這是很艱難的我們所超越的，就是像LHC的價值最後，我引用一句英國科學家Humphrey Davy說的話好像是當他為他學生的無用實驗辯護時他的學生是Michael Faraday他是這麼說的: 在人類思想史的進化上沒什麼比以下觀點更危險的:假設我們的觀點已經是終極知識或者自然界已經沒有秘密或者我們完全勝利了或者沒什麽新世界可讓我們征服的謝謝(觀眾鼓掌)
