Talk	en	zh-tw
brian_cox_why_we_need_the_explorers	"We live in difficult and challenging economic times, of course. And one of the first victims of difficult economic times, I think, is public spending of any kind, but certainly in the firing line at the moment is public spending for science, and particularly curiosity-led science and exploration. So I want to try and convince you in about 15 minutes that that's a ridiculous and ludicrous thing to do. But I think to set the scene, I want to show — the next slide is not my attempt to show the worst TED slide in the history of TED, but it is a bit of a mess. (Laughter) But actually, it's not my fault; it's from the Guardian newspaper. And it's actually a beautiful demonstration of how much science costs. Because, if I'm going to make the case for continuing to spend on curiosity-driven science and exploration, I should tell you how much it costs. So this is a game called ""spot the science budgets."" This is the U.K. government spend. You see there, it's about 620 billion a year. The science budget is actually — if you look to your left, there's a purple set of blobs and then yellow set of blobs. And it's one of the yellow set of blobs around the big yellow blob. It's about 3.3 billion pounds per year out of 620 billion. That funds everything in the U.K. from medical research, space exploration, where I work, at CERN in Geneva, particle physics, engineering, even arts and humanities, funded from the science budget, which is that 3.3 billion, that little, tiny yellow blob around the orange blob at the top left of the screen. So that's what we're arguing about. That percentage, by the way, is about the same in the U.S. and Germany and France. R&D in total in the economy, publicly funded, is about 0.6 percent of GDP. So that's what we're arguing about. The first thing I want to say, and this is straight from ""Wonders of the Solar System,"" is that our exploration of the solar system and the universe has shown us that it is indescribably beautiful. This is a picture that actually was sent back by the Cassini space probe around Saturn, after we'd finished filming ""Wonders of the Solar System."" So it isn't in the series. It's of the moon Enceladus. So that big sweeping, white sphere in the corner is Saturn, which is actually in the background of the picture. And that crescent there is the moon Enceladus, which is about as big as the British Isles. It's about 500 kilometers in diameter. So, tiny moon. What's fascinating and beautiful ... this an unprocessed picture, by the way, I should say, it's black and white, straight from Saturnian orbit. What's beautiful is, you can probably see on the limb there some faint, sort of, wisps of almost smoke rising up from the limb. This is how we visualize that in ""Wonders of the Solar System."" It's a beautiful graphic. What we found out were that those faint wisps are actually fountains of ice rising up from the surface of this tiny moon. That's fascinating and beautiful in itself, but we think that the mechanism for powering those fountains requires there to be lakes of liquid water beneath the surface of this moon. And what's important about that is that, on our planet, on Earth, wherever we find liquid water, we find life. So, to find strong evidence of liquid, pools of liquid, beneath the surface of a moon 750 million miles away from the Earth is really quite astounding. So what we're saying, essentially, is maybe that's a habitat for life in the solar system. Well, let me just say, that was a graphic. I just want to show this picture. That's one more picture of Enceladus. This is when Cassini flew beneath Enceladus. So it made a very low pass, just a few hundred kilometers above the surface. And so this, again, a real picture of the ice fountains rising up into space, absolutely beautiful. But that's not the prime candidate for life in the solar system. That's probably this place, which is a moon of Jupiter, Europa. And again, we had to fly to the Jovian system to get any sense that this moon, as most moons, was anything other than a dead ball of rock. It's actually an ice moon. So what you're looking at is the surface of the moon Europa, which is a thick sheet of ice, probably a hundred kilometers thick. But by measuring the way that Europa interacts with the magnetic field of Jupiter, and looking at how those cracks in the ice that you can see there on that graphic move around, we've inferred very strongly that there's an ocean of liquid surrounding the entire surface of Europa. So below the ice, there's an ocean of liquid around the whole moon. It could be hundreds of kilometers deep, we think. We think it's saltwater, and that would mean that there's more water on that moon of Jupiter than there is in all the oceans of the Earth combined. So that place, a little moon around Jupiter, is probably the prime candidate for finding life on a moon or a body outside the Earth, that we know of. Tremendous and beautiful discovery. Our exploration of the solar system has taught us that the solar system is beautiful. It may also have pointed the way to answering one of the most profound questions that you can possibly ask, which is: ""Are we alone in the universe?"" Is there any other use to exploration and science, other than just a sense of wonder? Well, there is. This is a very famous picture taken, actually, on my first Christmas Eve, December 24th, 1968, when I was about eight months old. It was taken by Apollo 8 as it went around the back of the moon. Earthrise from Apollo 8. A famous picture; many people have said that it's the picture that saved 1968, which was a turbulent year — the student riots in Paris, the height of the Vietnam War. The reason many people think that about this picture, and Al Gore has said it many times, actually, on the stage at TED, is that this picture, arguably, was the beginning of the environmental movement. Because, for the first time, we saw our world, not as a solid, immovable, kind of indestructible place, but as a very small, fragile-looking world just hanging against the blackness of space. What's also not often said about the space exploration, about the Apollo program, is the economic contribution it made. I mean while you can make arguments that it was wonderful and a tremendous achievement and delivered pictures like this, it cost a lot, didn't it? Well, actually, many studies have been done about the economic effectiveness, the economic impact of Apollo. The biggest one was in 1975 by Chase Econometrics. And it showed that for every $1 spent on Apollo, 14 came back into the U.S. economy. So the Apollo program paid for itself in inspiration, in engineering, achievement and, I think, in inspiring young scientists and engineers 14 times over. So exploration can pay for itself. What about scientific discovery? What about driving innovation? Well, this looks like a picture of virtually nothing. What it is, is a picture of the spectrum of hydrogen. See, back in the 1880s, 1890s, many scientists, many observers, looked at the light given off from atoms. And they saw strange pictures like this. What you're seeing when you put it through a prism is that you heat hydrogen up and it doesn't just glow like a white light, it just emits light at particular colors, a red one, a light blue one, some dark blue ones. Now that led to an understanding of atomic structure because the way that's explained is atoms are a single nucleus with electrons going around them. And the electrons can only be in particular places. And when they jump up to the next place they can be, and fall back down again, they emit light at particular colors. And so the fact that atoms, when you heat them up, only emit light at very specific colors, was one of the key drivers that led to the development of the quantum theory, the theory of the structure of atoms. I just wanted to show this picture because this is remarkable. This is actually a picture of the spectrum of the Sun. And now, this is a picture of atoms in the Sun's atmosphere absorbing light. And again, they only absorb light at particular colors when electrons jump up and fall down, jump up and fall down. But look at the number of black lines in that spectrum. And the element helium was discovered just by staring at the light from the Sun because some of those black lines were found that corresponded to no known element. And that's why helium's called helium. It's called ""helios"" — helios from the Sun. Now, that sounds esoteric, and indeed it was an esoteric pursuit, but the quantum theory quickly led to an understanding of the behaviors of electrons in materials like silicon, for example. The way that silicon behaves, the fact that you can build transistors, is a purely quantum phenomenon. So without that curiosity-driven understanding of the structure of atoms, which led to this rather esoteric theory, quantum mechanics, then we wouldn't have transistors, we wouldn't have silicon chips, we wouldn't have pretty much the basis of our modern economy. There's one more, I think, wonderful twist to that tale. In ""Wonders of the Solar System,"" we kept emphasizing the laws of physics are universal. It's one of the most incredible things about the physics and the understanding of nature that you get on Earth, is you can transport it, not only to the planets, but to the most distant stars and galaxies. And one of the astonishing predictions of quantum mechanics, just by looking at the structure of atoms — the same theory that describes transistors — is that there can be no stars in the universe that have reached the end of their life that are bigger than, quite specifically, 1.4 times the mass of the Sun. That's a limit imposed on the mass of stars. You can work it out on a piece of paper in a laboratory, get a telescope, swing it to the sky, and you find that there are no dead stars bigger than 1.4 times the mass of the Sun. That's quite an incredible prediction. What happens when you have a star that's right on the edge of that mass? Well, this is a picture of it. This is the picture of a galaxy, a common ""our garden"" galaxy with, what, 100 billion stars like our Sun in it. It's just one of billions of galaxies in the universe. There are a billion stars in the galactic core, which is why it's shining out so brightly. This is about 50 million light years away, so one of our neighboring galaxies. But that bright star there is actually one of the stars in the galaxy. So that star is also 50 million light years away. It's part of that galaxy, and it's shining as brightly as the center of the galaxy with a billion suns in it. That's a Type Ia supernova explosion. Now that's an incredible phenomena, because it's a star that sits there. It's called a carbon-oxygen dwarf. It sits there about, say, 1.3 times the mass of the Sun. And it has a binary companion that goes around it, so a big star, a big ball of gas. And what it does is it sucks gas off its companion star, until it gets to this limit called the Chandrasekhar limit, and then it explodes. And it explodes, and it shines as brightly as a billion suns for about two weeks, and releases, not only energy, but a huge amount of chemical elements into the universe. In fact, that one is a carbon-oxygen dwarf. Now, there was no carbon and oxygen in the universe at the Big Bang. And there was no carbon and oxygen in the universe throughout the first generation of stars. It was made in stars like that, locked away and then returned to the universe in explosions like that in order to recondense into planets, stars, new solar systems and, indeed, people like us. I think that's a remarkable demonstration of the power and beauty and universality of the laws of physics, because we understand that process, because we understand the structure of atoms here on Earth. This is a beautiful quote that I found — we're talking about serendipity there — from Alexander Fleming: ""When I woke up just after dawn on September 28, 1928, I certainly didn't plan to revolutionize all medicine by discovering the world's first antibiotic."" Now, the explorers of the world of the atom did not intend to invent the transistor. And they certainly didn't intend to describe the mechanics of supernova explosions, which eventually told us where the building blocks of life were synthesized in the universe. So, I think science can be — serendipity is important. It can be beautiful. It can reveal quite astonishing things. It can also, I think, finally reveal the most profound ideas to us about our place in the universe and really the value of our home planet. This is a spectacular picture of our home planet. Now, it doesn't look like our home planet. It looks like Saturn because, of course, it is. It was taken by the Cassini space probe. But it's a famous picture, not because of the beauty and majesty of Saturn's rings, but actually because of a tiny, faint blob just hanging underneath one of the rings. And if I blow it up there, you see it. It looks like a moon, but in fact, it's a picture of Earth. It was a picture of Earth captured in that frame of Saturn. That's our planet from 750 million miles away. I think the Earth has got a strange property that the farther away you get from it, the more beautiful it seems. But that is not the most distant or most famous picture of our planet. It was taken by this thing, which is called the Voyager spacecraft. And that's a picture of me in front of it for scale. The Voyager is a tiny machine. It's currently 10 billion miles away from Earth, transmitting with that dish, with the power of 20 watts, and we're still in contact with it. But it visited Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. And after it visited all four of those planets, Carl Sagan, who's one of my great heroes, had the wonderful idea of turning Voyager around and taking a picture of every planet it had visited. And it took this picture of Earth. Now it's very hard to see the Earth there, it's called the ""Pale Blue Dot"" picture, but Earth is suspended in that red shaft of light. That's Earth from four billion miles away. And I'd like to read you what Sagan wrote about it, just to finish, because I cannot say words as beautiful as this to describe what he saw in that picture that he had taken. He said, ""Consider again that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. On it, everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you've ever heard of, every human being who ever was lived out their lives. The aggregates of joy and suffering thousands of confident religions, ideologies and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every superstar, every supreme leader, every saint and sinner in the history of our species, lived there, on a mote of dust, suspended in a sunbeam. It's been said that astronomy's a humbling and character-building experience. There is perhaps no better demonstration of the folly of human conceits than this distant image of our tiny world. To me, it underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another and to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot, the only home we've ever known."" Beautiful words about the power of science and exploration. The argument has always been made, and it will always be made, that we know enough about the universe. You could have made it in the 1920s; you wouldn't have had penicillin. You could have made it in the 1890s; you wouldn't have the transistor. And it's made today in these difficult economic times. Surely, we know enough. We don't need to discover anything else about our universe. Let me leave the last words to someone who's rapidly becoming a hero of mine, Humphrey Davy, who did his science at the turn of the 19th century. He was clearly under assault all the time. ""We know enough at the turn of the 19th century. Just exploit it; just build things."" He said this, he said, ""Nothing is more fatal to the progress of the human mind than to presume that our views of science are ultimate, that our triumphs are complete, that there are no mysteries in nature, and that there are no new worlds to conquer."" Thank you. (Applause)"	"我們生活在這艱難而極具挑戰性的經濟時代中, 當然在這樣的情況下首當其衝受害的一環莫過於任何種類的公共支出但明顯地被猛烈抨擊的是科學領域上的公共支出尤其是純好奇心驅使的科學和探索我希望在接下來的15分鐘內試著說服大家削減科研開支是荒謬和不合理的 為我的論述定調我想給大家看張投影片 —我無意播放這TED有史以來最糟的投影片 —但它實在是有點混亂（笑聲）這是來自英國衛報(The Guardian)對於科學研究支出的一個精彩的呈現因為，如果我要建立在好奇驅使的科研及探索上繼續投資的論點我就該解釋其支出佔比所以來玩個""尋找科研預算""的遊戲這是英國政府每年總支出這裡，大概一年6200億英鎊 其中用於科學的預算是 -在左手邊，看到那紫色的圓圈團以及下面黃色的圓圈團科研的預算是黃色圓圈團中的一小圈其中大的黃色圓圈只佔了大約每年33億是6200億的一小部分那包括所有英國科學研究支出由醫療研究、太空探索、粒子物理 —- 我在日內瓦CERN的工作、工程學，甚至藝術和人文，都是由科學研究預算支出的就只有33億，那小小的黃色圈圈繞著左上角橘色的圈圈團這就是我們爭議的焦點還有，此佔比與其他國家作比較如美國，德國，法國的也是差不多以公共經費支出佔了約國內生產總額的0.6%這就是我們爭議的焦點 我想說的第一件事取自BBC專輯""太陽系的奇蹟""就是從我們對太陽系和宇宙的探索之中得知宇宙是筆墨無法形容的那般美麗這幅照片是在我們完成""太陽系的奇蹟""的拍攝後卡西尼(Cassini)太空船才從土星傳回地球的所以在專輯內沒有這是土星的土衛二: ""恩克拉多斯""(Enceladus)那又大又白在左下角的圓圈就是土星在這幅照片裡面比較像是背景那邊的彎月就是""恩克拉多斯“大概有英倫群島那般大直徑有五百公里左右很小的月亮，是吧他美麗和引人入勝的地方對了，要提一下，這是一張未經處理的照片從土星軌道拍下來的黑白照片 它最美麗的地方，是在""恩克拉多斯""下方有一些朦朧的類似輕煙一般的東西從彎月下方冒出這是我們在”太陽系的奇蹟“中，對這冒煙地帶做的一個虛擬影像很美，是吧。根據我們的發現，那些輕煙原來是一個冰噴泉群從這細小的月亮上冒起這種景象本身就是美麗和引人入勝但我們如果想像一下這景象背後的原理噴泉群背後的動力需要的是在這個月亮的下面很多液態水做成的湖泊重要的是在地球上當我們發現有水的地方便能發現生命因此 能找到有水的證據在一距離地球7億5千萬英哩之外更是從一衛星的地表之下就是一件令人振奮的事要強調的是那可能是在太陽系中另一生命的棲息地讓我呈現另一張圖片“恩克拉多斯”的另一張照片這是當""卡西尼""飛掠過“恩克拉多斯”所攝它低空掠過距離地面只有幾百公里所以這是一個確實的照片 顯示冰泉湧向宇宙真是美 而這還不是太陽系中，探索生命的主要研究對象而是這個是木星系統中的 木衛二""Europa""再次的 我們得飛進木星系統去驗證這個衛星 就像大多數的衛星都只是一個無生命跡象的大石球體而它實際是個冰凍的月球現在看到的是木衛二的表面是幾百公里深的冰原層根據研究木衛二與木星的磁場交互作用下長期觀察冰原的裂縫可以見到某些圖案的移動我們強烈的相信冰原下方是有流動的海洋在整個木衛二的表面下!也就是整個冰凍的衛星表面下 是有流動的海洋我們猜想 是有幾百公里深也認為是鹽水 這也說明木衛二有比地球還多的海洋所以那個木星旁的木衛二就是主要的研究對象期待發現地球以外的生命希統經過了這麼多的探索 我們對太陽系的持續探索顯示我們的太陽系是如此的美麗也試著回答你會想問的問題也就是: ""浩瀚的宇宙中, 地球是孤單地有著生命嗎?""純科學探索的用途除了好奇心, 還有別的嗎?還是有的這是個非常有名的照片攝於我的第一個聖誕夜1968年的12月24日當我約8個月大由阿波羅8號所攝當它繞到月球背面看到地球升起很多人也說是這張照片救回了在動盪邊緣的1968年世界 —-巴黎的學生暴動、越戰的高峰期，這張照片所啟發的也是高爾(Al Gore)在TED一直強調的這張照片是地球環境保護的開始因為是第一次讓我們看到我們的世界不再是堅不可摧無法動搖的環境而是一個渺小易碎的星球掛在漆黑的宇宙當中 但卻不會聯想到是因太空探索或是阿波羅計畫而帶動的經濟貢獻我的意思是 我們會讚賞這景象的美麗以及偉大的成就傳送的照片等等但是花費不貲, 不是嗎?實際上也做了許多關於經濟上成效的研究像是阿波羅計畫之成本效益分析最大規模的是""大通計量經濟預測公司""於1975的研究顯示花在阿波羅計畫上的每一美元對美國經濟有著14美元的效益也就是說阿波羅計畫支撐其所有花費同時啟發了工程的成就我認為，也啟發了年輕的科學家與工程師以14倍之多的方式所以科學探索本身就是能打平的 更不用提科學發現的成果或是刺激更多的創新這張照片看起來似乎沒什麼重要它實際是氫原子的放射光譜回溯到1880 1890年代許多科學家觀測家研究諸多原子的放射光譜得到許多像這樣的奇怪照片我們看到的是經由菱鏡折射得出氫原子加熱所放出的光線像是白光但其實是特定顏色的光紅光 青藍光 與一些深藍光也得到些對原子結構的理解是如此解釋的原子有著單一原子核另外有電子繞著原子核而電子只能在特定軌道當電子跳到更高能階的軌道也能降回較低軌域同時方出特定能量(顏色)的光 所以當加熱的原子是放光線只有特定的顏色光譜而這也是當時重要的刺激引導推展出量子理論來解釋原子的構造我也要放出這張特別的照片這是太陽的放射光譜假設有一種原子在太陽的大氣層中吸收光線所以它只吸收特定顏色當電子跳上能階又跳下跳上又跳下所以從光譜中的黑線比對早先氦元素便是如此從太陽光譜中發現因為這些黑條紋並未能相對應到當時已知的元素也就是氦的英文名是""Helium""源自""helios"" —- ""太陽的"" 聽起來有些深奧而當時的確有些難理解但是量子理論很快的就推導出電子在物質中的行為以矽為例說明矽的特性之所以能做出電晶體就純粹是量子效應因此若沒有好奇心的驅使想了解原子的結構就不會提出當時深奧的理論—- 量子理論就不會有現在的電晶體, 也不會有矽晶片元件也就不會有現代經濟的基本建構單元 再來一個神奇的故事轉折在""太陽系的奇蹟""專輯中我們一直強調物理的基本定理是宇宙通行這也是物理最不可思議之處在地球上所學的自然知識能延伸到不只是行星可以到最遠的星球與銀河而最驚人的預測就是量子力學了光以原子結構來說就是那解釋電晶體的理論能用來預測宇宙中的恆星當到達它們的生命末日絕不會有大於1.4倍太陽的質量也就是恆星質量的上限這是可用理論在實驗室中計算得出再拿個天文望遠鏡對準天空一樣不會找到一個死恆星會大於太陽質量的1.4倍這是個令人叫奇的預測 那麼假使有一個在臨界點的恆星 會如何?這張照片就是了這是銀河的照片, 叫做""花園""銀河系其中有著1千億個相當於太陽的恆星這只是宇宙中十億分之一的銀河系銀河的核心部分有著10億個恆星也就是銀河中心總是特別閃亮這是約5千萬光年之遙的鄰近銀河系那個非常閃亮的恆星就是那銀河系中之一員所以也是距離了5千萬光年只是那銀河系的一個星, 卻有著如核心團一般的明亮是10億個太陽的總合那是個超新星的爆炸是個令人驚奇的景象是因為就只是單一個恆星的能量它被稱為碳-氧白矮星它存在那裡擁有1.3倍的太陽質量它還是個雙子星的系統有著一個巨大恆星與一團星雲它實際是在以重力吸引其伴星的沙石直到它質量達到所謂的""Chandrasekhar""極限它便進行爆炸爆炸是如此的明亮就像10億個太陽般的明亮 持續兩週釋放出不只能量也有大量的化學元素到宇宙中所以知道它是個有碳與氧的白矮星 但是當宇宙初生成時的大爆炸是沒有碳與氧的元素甚至在宇宙第一代的星球也沒有碳和氧直到原子 經由一次次的能量爆炸再結合物質回到宇宙中才組合成碳氧等元素才聚集形成新元素 新行星新恆星, 以及新的太陽系以及像我們這樣的生物我想這就是展現物理的美與力, 以及物理的嚴謹通用性就因為在地球 我們懂得這些過程我們懂得原子的結構 這是個優美的引述來自於Alexander Fleming""當我於1928年的9月28日的清晨醒來,我當然沒想到那天，我對藥物會有革命性的突破也就是發現了世上第一個抗生素""探索原子結構的科學家並未設想到電晶體更沒想像能同時解釋超新星的爆炸還引導出生命的建構是如何合成於宇宙中所以 我認為科學是註定的重要它是美的 是能發現驚奇事物它也能最終地揭露最深邃的理念，也就是人類在宇宙中的定位以及地球的真實價值 這張偉大的照片是關於地球它卻看不出相似點它卻像是土星, 而它本就是由卡西尼號所拍攝它是個有名的照片, 並不是因為美麗的土星光環而是因為這個細小模糊光點就在光環的下方讓我放大照片它優看起來像是個衛星事實上, 它就是地球也就是一張從土星角度看到的地球從遙遠的7億5千萬英哩的行星我想地球有著奇怪的特性越遠看它越覺得它美 這還不是最遙遠的行星位置是由航海家太空號所拍攝我站在它的前面作比例參考航海家太空號是個小機器目前它是距離地球100億英哩之外經由那耗電20瓦的小衛星碟我們仍然與它保持聯繫它曾到過木星, 土星天王星、 海王星在它經過這四個行星後Carl Sagan—我的偶像突發奇想將航海家轉頭來找了一張集合所有拜訪過的行星也包含地球很難看清楚地球, 我們只能稱它是""淡藍小點""但地球真的掛在光束上那是距離40億英哩的地球 我想對大家讀一段Sagan所寫的段落做結因為我無法像他能用話語表達從這張照片所感受的美他是這麼說的: ""再想想那小點在那裡 那是家 那是我們在那之上 有我們所愛的人有我們所認識的人, 有我們所知道的人也有那些曾生活過的人整合了 歡樂與苦難數以千計的宗教意識形態 與 經濟理論有獵人與搶劫者, 有英雄與懦夫有文明創造者與毀滅者有國王與莊稼, 有戀愛中的人有母親父親與充滿希望的孩童有發明家與探索者有道德導師與敗壞政客有巨星與領袖有聖人與罪人 就在整個人類歷史中就活在那小小的砂粒懸掛在太陽光束中曾聽過學習天文學是個謙卑與人格養成的經驗這張我們渺小的世界影像最能展現、 說明人類奇想的愚蠢對我而言, 它強調了我們的責任該去仁慈的互相對待該去保存與珍惜這個淡藍小點我們唯一的家"" 優美的述說了科學研究的力量一直以來反對科學研究的立論錯以為我們已經知道了所有的宇宙大道理若是這樣就停住, 1920後就不會有抗生素若是這樣就停住, 1890後就不會有現在的電晶體這樣的立論 又出現在現今經濟困難的時候是的, 我們知道夠多了不需要再去探索我們的太陽系 再讓我最後引述一個我心中的偶像:Humphrey Davy, 在19世紀的轉換時做研究也常被不支持的論點攻擊說我們在進入19世紀時就知道足夠了""就是探索, 就是建構事物""他說: ""對於人類心智的進展最危險的莫過於自認為我們對科學的觀點已是最終版本，或是我們的成就都已達成、所有的自然問題都已解決，或是不再有新奇事物等我們發掘。"" 謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
