Talk	en	zh-tw
brian_skerry_reveals_ocean_s_glory_and_horror	I would like to share with you this morning some stories about the ocean through my work as a still photographer for National Geographic magazine. I guess I became an underwater photographer and a photojournalist because I fell in love with the sea as a child. And I wanted to tell stories about all the amazing things I was seeing underwater, incredible wildlife and interesting behaviors. And after even 30 years of doing this, after 30 years of exploring the ocean, I never cease to be amazed at the extraordinary encounters that I have while I'm at sea. But more and more frequently these days I'm seeing terrible things underwater as well, things that I don't think most people realize. And I've been compelled to turn my camera towards these issues to tell a more complete story. I want people to see what's happening underwater, both the horror and the magic. The first story that I did for National Geographic, where I recognized the ability to include environmental issues within a natural history coverage, was a story I proposed on harp seals. The story I wanted to do initially was just a small focus to look at the few weeks each year where these animals migrate down from the Canadian arctic to the Gulf of St. Lawrence in Canada to engage in courtship, mating and to have their pups. And all of this is played out against the backdrop of transient pack ice that moves with wind and tide. And because I'm an underwater photographer, I wanted to do this story from both above and below, to make pictures like this that show one of these little pups making its very first swim in the icy 29-degree water. But as I got more involved in the story, I realized that there were two big environmental issues I couldn't ignore. The first was that these animals continue to be hunted, killed with hakapiks at about eight, 15 days old. It actually is the largest marine mammal slaughter on the planet, with hundreds of thousands of these seals being killed every year. But as disturbing as that is, I think the bigger problem for harp seals is the loss of sea ice due to global warming. This is an aerial picture that I made that shows the Gulf of St. Lawrence during harp seal season. And even though we see a lot of ice in this picture, there's a lot of water as well, which wasn't there historically. And the ice that is there is quite thin. The problem is that these pups need a stable platform of solid ice in order to nurse from their moms. They only need 12 days from the moment they're born until they're on their own. But if they don't get 12 days, they can fall into the ocean and die. This is a photo that I made showing one of these pups that's only about five or seven days old — still has a little bit of the umbilical cord on its belly — that has fallen in because of the thin ice, and the mother is frantically trying to push it up to breathe and to get it back to stable purchase. This problem has continued to grow each year since I was there. I read that last year the pup mortality rate was 100 percent in parts of the Gulf of St. Lawrence. So, clearly, this species has a lot of problems going forward. This ended up becoming a cover story at National Geographic. And it received quite a bit of attention. And with that, I saw the potential to begin doing other stories about ocean problems. So I proposed a story on the global fish crisis, in part because I had personally witnessed a lot of degradation in the ocean over the last 30 years, but also because I read a scientific paper that stated that 90 percent of the big fish in the ocean have disappeared in the last 50 or 60 years. These are the tuna, the billfish and the sharks. When I read that, I was blown away by those numbers. I thought this was going to be headline news in every media outlet, but it really wasn't, so I wanted to do a story that was a very different kind of underwater story. I wanted it to be more like war photography, where I was making harder-hitting pictures that showed readers what was happening to marine wildlife around the planet. The first component of the story that I thought was essential, however, was to give readers a sense of appreciation for the ocean animals that they were eating. You know, I think people go into a restaurant, and somebody orders a steak, and we all know where steak comes from, and somebody orders a chicken, and we know what a chicken is, but when they're eating bluefin sushi, do they have any sense of the magnificent animal that they're consuming? These are the lions and tigers of the sea. In reality, these animals have no terrestrial counterpart; they're unique in the world. These are animals that can practically swim from the equator to the poles and can crisscross entire oceans in the course of a year. If we weren't so efficient at catching them, because they grow their entire life, would have 30-year-old bluefin out there that weigh a ton. But the truth is we're way too efficient at catching them, and their stocks have collapsed worldwide. This is the daily auction at the Tsukiji Fish Market that I photographed a couple years ago. And every single day these tuna, bluefin like this, are stacked up like cordwood, just warehouse after warehouse. As I wandered around and made these pictures, it sort of occurred to me that the ocean's not a grocery store, you know. We can't keep taking without expecting serious consequences as a result. I also, with the story, wanted to show readers how fish are caught, some of the methods that are used to catch fish, like a bottom trawler, which is one of the most common methods in the world. This was a small net that was being used in Mexico to catch shrimp, but the way it works is essentially the same everywhere in the world. You have a large net in the middle with two steel doors on either end. And as this assembly is towed through the water, the doors meet resistance with the ocean, and it opens the mouth of the net, and they place floats at the top and a lead line on the bottom. And this just drags over the bottom, in this case to catch shrimp. But as you can imagine, it's catching everything else in its path as well. And it's destroying that precious benthic community on the bottom, things like sponges and corals, that critical habitat for other animals. This photograph I made of the fisherman holding the shrimp that he caught after towing his nets for one hour. So he had a handful of shrimp, maybe seven or eight shrimp, and all those other animals on the deck of the boat are bycatch. These are animals that died in the process, but have no commercial value. So this is the true cost of a shrimp dinner, maybe seven or eight shrimp and 10 pounds of other animals that had to die in the process. And to make that point even more visual, I swam under the shrimp boat and made this picture of the guy shoveling this bycatch into the sea as trash and photographed this cascade of death, you know, animals like guitarfish, bat rays, flounder, pufferfish, that only an hour before, were on the bottom of the ocean, alive, but now being thrown back as trash. I also wanted to focus on the shark fishing industry because, currently on planet Earth, we're killing over 100 million sharks every single year. But before I went out to photograph this component, I sort of wrestled with the notion of how do you make a picture of a dead shark that will resonate with readers You know, I think there's still a lot of people out there who think the only good shark is a dead shark. But this one morning I jumped in and found this thresher that had just recently died in the gill net. And with its huge pectoral fins and eyes still very visible, it struck me as sort of a crucifixion, if you will. This ended up being the lead picture in the global fishery story in National Geographic. And I hope that it helped readers to take notice of this problem of 100 million sharks. And because I love sharks — I'm somewhat obsessed with sharks — I wanted to do another, more celebratory, story about sharks, as a way of talking about the need for shark conservation. So I went to the Bahamas because there're very few places in the world where sharks are doing well these days, but the Bahamas seem to be a place where stocks were reasonably healthy, largely due to the fact that the government there had outlawed longlining several years ago. And I wanted to show several species that we hadn't shown much in the magazine and worked in a number of locations. One of the locations was this place called Tiger Beach, in the northern Bahamas where tiger sharks aggregate in shallow water. This is a low-altitude photograph that I made showing our dive boat with about a dozen of these big old tiger sharks sort of just swimming around behind. But the one thing I definitely didn't want to do with this coverage was to continue to portray sharks as something like monsters. I didn't want them to be overly threatening or scary. And with this photograph of a beautiful 15-feet, probably 14-feet, I guess, female tiger shark, I sort of think I got to that goal, where she was swimming with these little barjacks off her nose, and my strobe created a shadow on her face. And I think it's a gentler picture, a little less threatening, a little more respectful of the species. I also searched on this story for the elusive great hammerhead, an animal that really hadn't been photographed much until maybe about seven or 10 years ago. It's a very solitary creature. But this is an animal that's considered data deficient by science in both Florida and in the Bahamas. You know, we know almost nothing about them. We don't know where they migrate to or from, where they mate, where they have their pups, and yet, hammerhead populations in the Atlantic have declined about 80 percent in the last 20 to 30 years. You know, we're losing them faster than we can possibly find them. This is the oceanic whitetip shark, an animal that is considered the fourth most dangerous species, if you pay attention to such lists. But it's an animal that's about 98 percent in decline throughout most of its range. Because this is a pelagic animal and it lives out in the deeper water, and because we weren't working on the bottom, I brought along a shark cage here, and my friend, shark biologist Wes Pratt is inside the cage. You'll see that the photographer, of course, was not inside the cage here, so clearly the biologist is a little smarter than the photographer I guess. And lastly with this story, I also wanted to focus on baby sharks, shark nurseries. And I went to the island of Bimini, in the Bahamas, to work with lemon shark pups. This is a photo of a lemon shark pup, and it shows these animals where they live for the first two to three years of their lives in these protective mangroves. This is a very sort of un-shark-like photograph. It's not what you typically might think of as a shark picture. But, you know, here we see a shark that's maybe 10 or 11 inches long swimming in about a foot of water. But this is crucial habitat and it's where they spend the first two, three years of their lives, until they're big enough to go out on the rest of the reef. After I left Bimini, I actually learned that this habitat was being bulldozed to create a new golf course and resort. And other recent stories have looked at single, flagship species, if you will, that are at risk in the ocean as a way of talking about other threats. One such story I did documented the leatherback sea turtle. This is the largest, widest-ranging, deepest-diving and oldest of all turtle species. Here we see a female crawling out of the ocean under moonlight on the island of Trinidad. These are animals whose lineage dates back about 100 million years. And there was a time in their lifespan where they were coming out of the water to nest and saw Tyrannosaurus rex running by. And today, they crawl out and see condominiums. But despite this amazing longevity, they're now considered critically endangered. In the Pacific, where I made this photograph, their stocks have declined about 90 percent in the last 15 years. This is a photograph that shows a hatchling about to taste saltwater for the very first time beginning this long and perilous journey. Only one in a thousand leatherback hatchlings will reach maturity. But that's due to natural predators like vultures that pick them off on a beach or predatory fish that are waiting offshore. Nature has learned to compensate with that, and females have multiple clutches of eggs to overcome those odds. But what they can't deal with is anthropogenic stresses, human things, like this picture that shows a leatherback caught at night in a gill net. I actually jumped in and photographed this, and with the fisherman's permission, I cut the turtle out, and it was able to swim free. But, you know, thousands of other leatherbacks each year are not so fortunate, and the species' future is in great danger. Another charismatic megafauna species that I worked with is the story I did on the right whale. And essentially, the story is this with right whales, that about a million years ago, there was one species of right whale on the planet, but as land masses moved around and oceans became isolated, the species sort of separated, and today we have essentially two distinct stocks. We have the Southern right whale that we see here and the North Atlantic right whale that we see here with a mom and calf off the coast of Florida. Now, both species were hunted to the brink of extinction by the early whalers, but the Southern right whales have rebounded a lot better because they're located in places farther away from human activity. The North Atlantic right whale is listed as the most endangered species on the planet today because they are urban whales; they live along the east coast of North America, United States and Canada, and they have to deal with all these urban ills. This photo shows an animal popping its head out at sunset off the coast of Florida. You can see the coal burning plant in the background. They have to deal with things like toxins and pharmaceuticals that are flushed out into the ocean, and maybe even affecting their reproduction. They also get entangled in fishing gear. This is a picture that shows the tail of a right whale. And those white markings are not natural markings. These are entanglement scars. 72 percent of the population has such scars, but most don't shed the gear, things like lobster traps and crab pots. They hold on to them, and it eventually kills them. And the other problem is they get hit by ships. And this was an animal that was struck by a ship in Nova Scotia, Canada being towed in, where they did a necropsy to confirm the cause of death, which was indeed a ship strike. So all of these ills are stacking up against these animals and keeping their numbers very low. And to draw a contrast with that beleaguered North Atlantic population, I went to a new pristine population of Southern right whales that had only been discovered about 10 years ago in the sub-Antarctic of New Zealand, a place called the Auckland Islands. I went down there in the winter time. And these are animals that had never seen humans before, and I was one of the first people they probably had ever seen. And I got in the water with them, and I was amazed at how curious they were. This photograph shows my assistant standing on the bottom at about 70 feet and one of these amazingly beautiful, 45-foot, 70-ton whales, like a city bus just swimming up, you know. They were in perfect condition, very fat and healthy, robust, no entanglement scars, the way they're supposed to look. You know, I read that the pilgrims, when they landed at Plymouth Rock in Massachusetts in 1620, wrote that you could walk across Cape Cod Bay on the backs of right whales. And we can't go back and see that today, but maybe we can preserve what we have left. And I wanted to close this program with a story of hope, a story I did on marine reserves as sort of a solution to the problem of overfishing, the global fish crisis story. I settled on working in the country of New Zealand because New Zealand was rather progressive, and is rather progressive in terms of protecting their ocean. And I really wanted this story to be about three things: I wanted it to be about abundance, about diversity and about resilience. And one of the first places I worked was a reserve called Goat Island in Leigh of New Zealand. What the scientists there told me was that when protected this first marine reserve in 1975, they hoped and expected that certain things might happen. For example, they hoped that certain species of fish like the New Zealand snapper would return because they had been fished to the brink of commercial extinction. And they did come back. What they couldn't predict was that other things would happen. For example, these fish predate on sea urchins, and when the fish were all gone, all anyone ever saw underwater was just acres and acres of sea urchins. But when the fish came back and began predating and controlling the urchin population, low and behold, kelp forests emerged in shallow water. And that's because the urchins eat kelp. So when the fish control the urchin population, the ocean was restored to its natural equilibrium. You know, this is probably how the ocean looked here one or 200 years ago, but nobody was around to tell us. I worked in other parts of New Zealand as well, in beautiful, fragile, protected areas like in Fiordland, where this sea pen colony was found. Little blue cod swimming in for a dash of color. In the northern part of New Zealand, I dove in the blue water, where the water's a little warmer, and photographed animals like this giant sting ray swimming through an underwater canyon. Every part of the ecosystem in this place seems very healthy, from tiny, little animals like a nudibrank crawling over encrusting sponge or a leatherjacket that is a very important animal in this ecosystem because it grazes on the bottom and allows new life to take hold. And I wanted to finish with this photograph, a picture I made on a very stormy day in New Zealand when I just laid on the bottom amidst a school of fish swirling around me. And I was in a place that had only been protected about 20 years ago. And I talked to divers that had been diving there for many years, and they said that the marine life was better here today than it was in the 1960s. And that's because it's been protected, that it has come back. So I think the message is clear. The ocean is, indeed, resilient and tolerant to a point, but we must be good custodians. I became an underwater photographer because I fell in love with the sea, and I make pictures of it today because I want to protect it, and I don't think it's too late. Thank you very much.	今天早晨我想要與各位分享一些關於海洋的故事透過我身為一名靜態攝影師的工作為國家地理雜誌拍攝照片我想我會成為一名海面下的攝影師以及一位攝影記者是因為當我還是個小男孩時我就愛上了大海而我想要告訴大家在海面下所見到的那些驚奇的故事令人感到震撼的生命以及牠們有趣的行為即使在從事三十年這樣的職業以及探索海洋超過三十年的時間在大海中所遭遇的各種事物永遠能為我帶來驚奇然而這些日子，當我越加頻繁地接觸時我也發現了海面下那些令人感到恐懼的事情一些我認為多數人都不了解的事因此我將照相機鎖定這些議題來告訴大家一個更完整的故事我想要人們看見海面下發生的事包括恐怖的、不可思議的 第一個故事是我為國家地理雜誌所拍攝在那裡我體認到自己有能力可以在自然歷史的封面故事下加入環境議題我拍攝的對象是海豹而現在我想拍攝的故事，原本只是個小焦點，一年拍攝幾個星期而已這段期間，海豹由加拿大極地遷徙而下至加拿大聖羅倫斯海灣致力於求偶、交配以及產下牠們的小海豹所有的這一切生物行為皆在以風及潮汐為漂泊動力的冰層上面進行因為我是一名海面下的攝影師我想要從海面上及海面下取材來拍攝這個故事如同照片中這些小海豹的其中一隻正在華氏29度的冰冷海水中，進行牠第一次的游泳 (攝氏-1.7度)但是當我更深入這個主題我瞭解到有兩個重大的環境議題是我不能忽視的第一個是這些動物持續地被獵殺在大約八到十五天時被棘棒殺死這實際上也是在這星球上最大的海洋哺乳類動物大屠殺每年都有成千上萬的海豹被屠殺 但是更令人感到不安的是我認為對加拿大海豹所遭遇最大的問題是由於全球暖化，海面上的冰層正逐年減少這是一張我所拍攝的航空照片照片為在海豹繁殖季節時聖羅倫斯海灣的冰層雖然我們在這張照片中看到了很多的冰層然而冰層與冰層間也夾雜著很多海水，這些海水在歷史上是不曾存在的而且照片中的冰層非常薄問題是小海豹們需要一穩定的固體冰面來從母海豹那得到哺育從牠們出生到可以自己生活，只需要十二天的時間但如果小海豹沒有得到這12天的時間牠們會跌入海洋而死亡這是一張我拍攝的照片其中一隻小海豹年僅約5或7天肚子上仍有一些臍帶的痕跡因為冰層太薄而跌入海洋中小海豹的母親極盡所能地想要將小海豹推至海面上呼吸讓牠能回到穩固的冰面上從我在那拍攝照片開始，這個問題一年比一年嚴重我閱讀了小海豹過去一年的死亡率報告在部分聖羅倫斯海灣區域，小海豹的死亡率為百分之百因此，很明顯地，這個物種面臨許多問題這張照片最後也成為了國家地理雜誌的封面報導受到了眾多關注 藉由這則報導，我看到了開始拍攝其他與海洋問題相關報導的可能性因此我拍攝了一則以全球魚類危機為主題的報導部分原因是因為親眼所見過去的三十年中，這類問題在海洋中的惡化過程但也是因為我讀到了一篇科學文獻指出有90%在海洋中的大型魚類在過去的50或60年間已然消失無蹤這些是鮪魚、梭魚以及鯊魚當我讀到這裡時，我被那些數字震懾住了我想這項研究應該會成為各個媒體出口的頭條新聞了吧但實際上卻沒有，因此我想要報導這個故事一個不同於一般海底主題的報導我想要這主題成為更類似戰爭攝影的報導其中我拍攝了一些難得一見、更為轟動的照片以讓讀者清楚了解這個星球上海洋野生動物正遭遇的問題 這篇報導我認為讀者必須了解的第一件事是讀者必須對我們所食用的海洋生物心存感激你知道嗎，我認為人們走進餐廳用餐某人可能點了牛排，至少我們都知道牛排是從哪裡來某人點了雞肉，而我們也都瞭解雞是怎樣的但當人們在吃黑鮪魚壽司時是否了解他們所食用的生物是多麼宏偉而壯觀呢？這些偉大的生物是海中的獅子和老虎，是海中生物之王事實上，這些生物在陸地上是沒有可以相對應的牠們在這世界上是獨一無二的照片中是那些實際上可由赤道游到北極的生物並且可以在一年之間來回穿越整個海洋的如果不是人類大量的捕食，牠們是可以發展自己生活的就可能會有成長至30歲的黑鮪魚，並且重達一噸事實是人類太過量的捕捉導致黑鮪魚在世界上的存活量大跌 這是在Tsukiji魚市場每日的拍賣情形照片拍攝於幾年前每一天這些黑鮪魚以及藍鰭魚就像木材一樣被堆放在一間又一間的倉庫當我遊走在倉庫間拍攝這些照片時我忽然覺得海洋並不是一個雜貨店我們並不能夠毫不顧慮後果地取用 藉由這篇報導，我也想要告訴各位讀者魚類是如何被各種方式所捕捉例如海底的漁船拖網，是最常見的捕魚方式之一這是一張墨西哥用來補抓蝦子的小網但是它在世界各地的用法本質上都是一樣的一張大網在中間兩端有兩道不銹鋼門當此項配件在水裡進行拖曳門在海洋中遇到阻力網子則會因此而開啟網子的頂端會放置浮標，底部則是一條鉛線透過這張網的鉛線在海底進行拖曳來捕蝦但正如你所想像，網子在捕蝦的同時也網入了各式各樣的東西並摧毀了海底珍貴的生物群落例如海綿以及珊瑚對那些海底生物而言即為十分重要的棲地 這張照片是我拍攝一個漁夫握著撒網一小時所抓到的蝦子照片中他拿著一把蝦子，可能有七或八隻蝦以及甲板上那些不小心被一起捕捉來的生物這些被一起捕捉來的生物正瀕臨死亡但是卻沒有任何商業價值所以這才是那頓蝦子晚餐的真正花費裡頭可能只有七或八隻蝦卻有十磅或更多的生物必須因為那些蝦子而瀕臨死亡為了使這一點更加逼真，我游到了漁船的下方並且拍到了這張漁夫正把捕捉到的如同垃圾的生物從船上鏟出這張照片就是死掉的生物形成的小瀑布你知道嗎，這些生物如犁頭鰩、蝙蝠魟比目魚以及河豚，一小時前在海底下還是活生生的現在卻像垃圾一樣被丟回海底 我同時也想將焦點放在捕鯊業因為目前在地球上我們每一年屠殺了超過一億隻的鯊魚但是當我想要拍攝這個部份時我忽然陷入將如何拍攝一隻死鯊魚才能引起讀者們迴響的沉思中你知道嗎，我想仍然有一些人會認為一隻死掉的鯊魚才是一隻好鯊魚然而某一個早晨，我跳進水中，發現這隻剛死在刺網中的長尾鮫牠巨大的胸鰭以及眼睛尚清晰可見如果你親眼所見，定會像是看到牠被釘十字架般的震驚這張照片最終成為了國家地理雜誌關於全球漁業報導的主要照片我希望能幫助讀者們注意到這一億隻鯊魚艱難的處境 並且因為我熱愛鯊魚，為牠們著迷我也想為大家呈現較為令人喜悅的關於鯊魚的報導作為探討鯊魚保育的重要性因此我去了一趟巴哈馬群島因為那裏是全球少數幾個鯊魚保育做得很好的地方巴哈馬群島的鯊魚存量似乎保育良好也許是因為政府幾年前已明文規定捕獵鯊魚是不合法的並且我想要為大家呈現一些雜誌上未展示太多的，我工作地點的照片 其中一個地點是一個叫做老虎灘的地方位於巴哈馬群島的北方在那裏有集結成群的老虎鯊這則是在低海拔地區所拍攝的照片照片中為被這些年邁的大型老虎鯊所包圍的潛水艇就好像牠們游在我們周遭以及後方一樣但是我絕對不希望這張封面照片使鯊魚一直被描述成如同野獸一般我不希望這些老虎鯊是極具威脅性及令人驚懼的這張照片是一隻美麗的15呎長...也許14呎長的母虎鯊就像覺得自己達成目的一般當牠在水中游曳時，有一些平線若鰺游過牠的鼻側我的閃光燈在牠臉上造成了一道陰影我認為這是一張較為溫和的照片，也較不具威脅性對這個物種也有較多尊重 我也檢閱了一些關於這隻虛幻的大頭槌鯊的報導一隻直到在七或十年前才開始有一些相關照片拍攝的生物槌頭鯊事實上是一隻非常神秘的生物無論是在佛羅里達或是巴哈馬群島科學上的數據皆十分缺乏我們對牠們幾乎一無所知我們不知道他們遷入或是遷出的地點也不知道牠們在哪交配，生下小槌頭鯊然而，在大西洋的槌頭鯊族群在過去的20至30年間數量卻減少了大約百分之八十你知道嗎，我們失去牠們的速度遠比我們能找到牠們的要快 這是一隻白鰭鯊如果你留意相關的列表白鰭鯊被認為是四種最危險的物種之一在大多數牠們活動的範圍內其消逝率亦達98%因為牠們是一種生活在遠洋及深海中的生物並且因為我們不是在海底工作我帶了一只鯊魚籠至海底而我的朋友，鯊魚生物學家，維斯-普瑞特則在籠子內你所看到的這張照片，攝影師當然沒有在籠內我想很明顯地，我的朋友比攝影師要來得聰明一些 在這則報導的最後我想要針對鯊魚寶寶的哺育進行報導因此我去到了巴哈馬群島中的Bimini島與小檸檬鯊一起工作這是一張小檸檬鯊的照片顯示牠們在紅樹林保護區裡度過一生中第一個二至三年這是一張非常不同於一般鯊魚的照片不是你所能想像到的鯊魚但是，你知道嗎，在這裡我們看到一隻可能有10或11吋長的鯊魚游在只有一呎深的水中然而這對鯊魚而言是非常重要的棲地，也是牠們出生後要待上二至三年的地方直到牠們成長至能夠游出暗礁外的其他地方生活為止在我離開Bimini，我才知道這個棲地正被挖土機夷平以打造一個全新的高爾夫球場以及度假勝地 如果你願意，讓我們來看看一些最近其他的報導關注於單一的旗艦物種在海洋中所面臨的風險作為說明其他威脅的一種方式其中一則關於棱龜的記錄報導這是所有海龜物種中最大、分布最廣的棱龜也是所有海龜物種中活最久、可潛至最深者這裡我們可以看到一雌性海龜正從月光下的海洋中爬出至Trinidad的小島上這些海龜的家世可追朔至1億年前在牠們一生的壽命中海龜也曾經爬出海面築巢看見雷克斯暴龍從眼前跑過然而今日，牠們爬出海灘，映入眼前的卻是高樓大廈儘管海龜的長壽令人驚奇卻也瀕臨絕種在太平洋，我拍攝這張照片的地點牠們的存活量在過去的十五年中大約降低了90% 這是一張拍攝正在孵化準備品嘗生命中第一口海水的小海龜正要展開這漫長而冒險的旅程僅有一千分之一的棱皮龜孵化後會成熟這是由於大自然的掠食者所致如禿鷹會將其叼起丟至海灘上或是魚類會在岸邊等候掠食然而大自然會有其補償之道例如雌性生物能夠一次產出很多蛋來克服那些不利的局面然而牠們卻對人類的逼迫無能為力如這張照片所顯示一隻棱龜在深夜被刺網所捕實際上此時我是在漁夫的許可之下跳入水中並且拍攝了這張照片我剪斷了網將海龜放出使牠可以重獲自由但是，你知道每年有數以千計的棱龜並非如此幸運嗎？而那些物種的未來正面臨空前的危機 另一我所拍攝的具有吸引力的大型物種為露脊鯨基本上，關於露脊鯨的報導是這樣的大約在一百萬年前有一種露脊鯨物種是生存在陸地上的但是當大陸板塊移動，海洋被其分割露脊鯨的物種便被分開了因此今日我們可以看到兩個不同的物種這裡我們可以看到南方露脊鯨以及北大西洋露脊鯨母子正從佛羅里達的海岸離開現今兩種物種皆因捕鯨者之故而瀕臨滅絕但是南方露脊鯨之生態得以有一些回復因為牠們所處的區域離人類活動較遠 北大西洋露脊鯨被列為現今地球上瀕臨滅絕最嚴重的物種因為牠們是都市鯨，沿著北美洲的美國及加拿大東岸生活而牠們必須歷經一些都市所造成的問題這張照片為夕陽中海中生物，在離佛羅里達海岸不遠處探出頭來你可以看到作為背景正在燃燒煤炭的工廠這些鯨魚必須面對都市工廠排放、沖入海洋的毒素以及藥物這類毒素以及藥物更有可能進一步影響其繁殖牠們也有可能被捲入漁具這是一隻露脊鯨的尾巴尾巴上那些白色斑點並非與生俱來而是由於被捲入漁具所造成的疤痕露脊鯨族群中約有72%的數量具有此疤痕但是多數的生物卻無法從捕漁的工具逃脫，如龍蝦陷阱和捕蟹籠這些裝置緊緊纏住牠們，最後殺死牠們另一個問題則是海中的生物常遭漁船撞傷這張照片是在加拿大的Nova Scotia照片中的生物因被漁船撞擊而受了重傷在拖回這隻動物後，他們進行驗屍來確定死因而此死因確實是由漁船撞擊所致因此這些弊端皆針對這些生物導致這些生物的存活量非常少 為了與北大西洋被包圍的族群對比我找來了新的原始族群，南方露脊鯨作為比較南方露脊鯨大約在十年前才在紐西蘭的南極區域，一個叫做奧克蘭島群的地方被發現我去到那邊時已是冬天這些南方露脊鯨從來沒有見過人類而我可能是牠們第一個看見過的人類我潛到水中與牠們在一起我很訝異牠們對我是如此好奇這張照片是我的助理站在約70呎深的海底這是一隻令人驚艷的鯨魚45呎長，70噸重你知道的，當牠游過身旁時，就像一部巴士開過牠們的狀態良好很肥、很健康、很壯碩，沒有被捲入器具所留下的疤痕這才應該是露脊鯨本來的樣貌當我閱讀清教徒的歷史，他們在1620年於麻州的普利矛斯岩登陸文中寫到那時候人們可以騎在露脊鯨的背上橫跨整個海德角海灣我們無法回到當時，也無法在今日看到當時的情景但是我們或許可以保護現在我們還擁有的 我想要在這篇關於海洋保育報導的最後賦予這則故事希望並且作為對於過度漁獵，全球魚類危機的解決辦法我在紐西蘭定居，並在那兒工作因為紐西蘭較為先進在對海洋的保育上也十分積極我希望這則報導與三件事有關我希望它是豐富、多樣性以及具有恢復性的我第一個工作的地點位在紐西蘭的Leigh一個叫做山羊島的保育地在那裏的科學家跟我說當1975年第一次開始海洋保育時他們希望並且期盼保育能夠有成效 例如，他們希望特定的魚種如紐西蘭的真鯛能夠透過海洋保育而回到這片海洋中為了商業發展的需求，真鯛曾來到了絕種的邊緣如今牠們的確回到了紐西蘭海洋中。然而卻發生了保育學家們意料之外的事例如這些魚種會掠食海膽當這些真鯛消失時每個人所看見的海底皆充斥者海膽但當魚群們回到海洋中並且開始掠食以及控制海膽的族群數量慢慢的，淺水灘開始出現了大型藻類而由於海膽以海藻為食因此當魚群控制海膽族群數量時海洋得以回復自身的平衡你知道嗎，這或許是海洋一、兩百年前的樣貌但是沒有人可以告訴我們是怎麼一回事 我也在紐西蘭的其他美麗的、脆弱的以及受到保護的區域工作像是在Fiordland，則發現了海筆的群落藍色的小鱈魚也在紐西蘭的北邊游曳增添一抹色彩我潛在藍色的海水中，拍攝海底生物，那裏的海水稍微暖些照片中這隻大型的魟魚正游過海底的峽谷在這個區域，生態系統中的每一個環節看起來皆十分健康從渺小的生物如海蛞蝓由結殼海綿上爬過或是一隻剝皮魚(馬面單棘魨)這隻生物在生態系統中扮演著十分重要的角色因為當牠們浮掠過海底上方，並使新生命得以在此根生 我希望以一張在紐西蘭的暴風雨天所拍攝的照片來完結這個主題當我躺在海底一群魚兒在我身邊游曳著我在一處大約20年前才受到保育的地方當我與在這裡潛水多年的潛水者交談時他們告訴我今日的海洋生態與1960年代相較已經改善許多這全是由於這個區域受到保育之故使得海洋生態得以回復原貌 因此我認為我想要傳達的訊息已十分明確即海洋在某種程度上是可以容忍我們的捕獵、破壞，且具有回復力的但是我們取之有道並且懂得節制我會成為一名海面下的攝影師是因為我愛上了這片海洋我今日我在這裡為大家呈現我所拍攝的照片，是因為我想保護這個海洋而我並不認為這樣做太遲 非常謝謝你的聆聽
