Talk	en	zh-tw
britta_riley_a_garden_in_my_apartment	"I, like many of you, am one of the two billion people on Earth who live in cities. And there are days — I don't know about the rest of you — but there are days when I palpably feel how much I rely on other people for pretty much everything in my life. And some days, that can even be a little scary. But what I'm here to talk to you about today is how that same interdependence is actually an extremely powerful social infrastructure that we can actually harness to help heal some of our deepest civic issues, if we apply open-source collaboration. A couple of years ago, I read an article by New York Times writer Michael Pollan, in which he argued that growing even some of our own food is one of the best things that we can do for the environment. Now at the time that I was reading this, it was the middle of the winter and I definitely did not have room for a lot of dirt in my New York City apartment. So I was basically just willing to settle for just reading the next Wired magazine and finding out how the experts were going to figure out how to solve all these problems for us in the future. But that was actually exactly the point that Michael Pollan was making in this article — it's precisely when we hand over the responsibility for all these things to specialists that we cause the kind of messes that we see with the food system. So, I happen to know a little bit from my own work about how NASA has been using hydroponics to explore growing food in space. And that you can actually get optimal nutritional yield by running a kind of high-quality liquid soil over plants' root systems. Now to a vegetable plant, my apartment has got to be about as foreign as outer space. But I can offer some natural light and year-round climate control. Fast-forward two years later: we now have window farms, which are vertical, hydroponic platforms for food-growing indoors. And the way it works is that there's a pump at the bottom, which periodically sends this liquid nutrient solution up to the top, which then trickles down through plants' root systems that are suspended in clay pellets — so there's no dirt involved. Now light and temperature vary with each window's microclimate, so a window farm requires a farmer, and she must decide what kind of crops she is going to put in her window farm, and whether she is going to feed her food organically. Back at the time, a window farm was no more than a technically complex idea that was going to require a lot of testing. And I really wanted it to be an open project, because hydroponics is one of the fastest growing areas of patenting in the United States right now, and could possibly become another area like Monsanto, where we have a lot of corporate intellectual property in the way of people's food. So I decided that, instead of creating a product, what I was going to do was open this up to a whole bunch of codevelopers. The first few systems that we created, they kind of worked. We were actually able to grow about a salad a week in a typical New York City apartment window. And we were able to grow cherry tomatoes and cucumbers, all kinds of stuff. But the first few systems were these leaky, loud power-guzzlers that Martha Stewart would definitely never have approved. (Laughter) So to bring on more codevelopers, what we did was we created a social media site on which we published the designs, we explained how they worked, and we even went so far as to point out everything that was wrong with these systems. And then we invited people all over the world to build them and experiment with us. So actually now on this website, we have 18,000 people. And we have window farms all over the world. What we're doing is what NASA or a large corporation would call R&D, or research and development. But what we call it is R&D-I-Y, or ""research and develop it yourself."" (Laughter) So, for example, Jackson came along and suggested that we use air pumps instead of water pumps. It took building a whole bunch of systems to get it right, but once we did, we were able to cut our carbon footprint nearly in half. Tony in Chicago has been taking on growing experiments, like lots of other window farmers, and he's been able to get his strawberries to fruit for nine months of the year in low-light conditions by simply changing out the organic nutrients. And window farmers in Finland have been customizing their window farms for the dark days of the Finnish winters by outfitting them with LED grow lights that they're now making open source and part of the project. So window farms have been evolving through a rapid versioning process similar to software. And with every open source project, the real benefit is the interplay between the specific concerns of people customizing their systems for their own particular concerns, and the universal concerns. So my core team and I are able to concentrate on the improvements that really benefit everyone. And we're able to look out for the needs of newcomers. So for do-it-yourselfers, we provide free, very well-tested instructions so that anyone, anywhere around the world, can build one of these systems for free. And there's a patent pending on these systems as well that's held by the community. And to fund the project, we partner to create products that we then sell to schools and to individuals who don't have time to build their own systems. Now within our community, a certain culture has appeared. In our culture, it is better to be a tester who supports someone else's idea than it is to be just the idea guy. What we get out of this project is support for our own work, as well as an experience of actually contributing to the environmental movement in a way other than just screwing in new light bulbs. But I think that Eleen expresses best what we really get out of this, which is the actual joy of collaboration. So she expresses here what it's like to see someone halfway across the world having taken your idea, built upon it and then acknowledging you for contributing. If we really want to see the kind of wide consumer behavior change that we're all talking about as environmentalists and food people, maybe we just need to ditch the term ""consumer"" and get behind the people who are doing stuff. Open source projects tend to have a momentum of their own. And what we're seeing is that R&D-I-Y has moved beyond just window farms and LEDs into solar panels and aquaponic systems. And we're building upon innovations of generations who went before us. And we're looking ahead at generations who really need us to retool our lives now. So we ask that you join us in rediscovering the value of citizens united, and to declare that we are all still pioneers. (Applause)"	我和你們很多人一樣是20億城市人口中的一個肯定有一段時間我不在乎你們中的任何一人但是又有時我可以很清楚的感覺到我有多麼的依賴他人幾乎是我生活中的每件事有時 我甚至對這種現狀感到可怕但是我今天想與你們分享的就是這種社會基本結構（社會人）之間的互相依賴所具有的強大力量假如我們之間有開放資源的合作大家是可以行動起來解決一些社會最根本的問題的 幾年前我讀了紐約時報上邁克爾波輪寫的一篇文章在其中他論述到了 我們假如能夠自己為自己種點食物這將是對環境十分有好處的事情當時我在讀那篇文章時正是寒冬在我紐約的公寓中不可能有地方來種菜很自然的我勉強同意他的然後就去在連線(雜誌)上找找看專家們是如何為我們解決這些問題的但是這種想法就是邁克爾波輪在文章中明確寫道的當我們把本來屬於自己的責任全部都交到了專家手裡我們其實就在為我們的食品系統製造麻煩 那之後 我很碰巧的從我自己的工作中知道了NASA使用水栽培在宇宙中種植植物的方法並且你可以通過在植物根周圍包裹高質量的液態土壤來獲得最好的產量對蔬菜植物而言我的公寓和外太空對他們來說沒什麼區別但是起碼我可以提供自然光和全年的氣候控制 快轉到兩年後我們現在有了 窗邊農場一種垂直式室內水栽培植物的平臺工作原理是在它的底部有一個泵用於定期向上方輸送液態養料溶液然後順著懸空在粘土小球中的植物根慢慢滴落所以不需要泥土的在每一個窗戶的小氣候生態中陽光和氣溫是會變化的所以窗邊農場是需要一個農工的然後她來決定在窗邊農場中放怎樣的種子和是不是用有機肥料去培養 現在的窗邊農場應該算的上是一個技術比較複雜的想法是需要很多的測試的我真的很希望這可以成為一個大眾項目因為在美國近年來水養殖是幾個專利增長最快的領域之一很可能成為另一個像孟山都一樣在食物方面形成很多企業知識產權所以我並不像做出一個產品我想的是把這個東西與所有的發展著一同共享 這是我們創造的第一個系統 相當不錯我們能每星期在典型的紐約公寓的窗戶上種出一盤沙拉我們可以種小番茄和黃瓜等各種菜但是這第一個系統是會漏水 而且很吵費電那樣的東西瑪莎斯圖是肯定不喜歡的(笑)爲了吸引更多的製造者我們建立了一個網站在上面發佈我們設計我們解釋他們是如何工作的甚至還把這些系統的各種漏洞都寫在了上面並且邀請全世界的人與我們一同實驗來創造這個系統現在這個網站大概有18000人我們現在全世界都有了窗邊農場 我們現在做的是NASA和那些大公司稱為R＆D的或叫做研究與發展但是我們把它叫做R＆DIY或叫做研究與自己做比如一路走來的傑克森他建議我們可以用氣泵代替水泵這需要一系列的改造來實現只要成功了我們就能減少一半左右的碳排放居住在芝加哥的托尼和許多其他的窗邊農工一樣在進行生產實驗然後他通過簡單改變養料成功達到了在一年中有九個月都能成功產出草莓接下來是在芬蘭的窗邊農工通過加上led燈已經成功的讓他們的窗邊農場適應了芬蘭冬天的黑暗同時他們也把這作為了公開資源計劃的一部份 通過像軟體一樣不斷的版本更新窗邊農場在不斷的改進公開資源的好處就在於互相的影響由當地人爲了適應當地環境做出的特殊的想法與一般想法見的影響通過這樣的好處我的核心小組就能認識到怎樣的改進才能對大家都有好處同時也能為新參加的人員提供他們的需要 對那些diy者我們提供免費優質的指導因此對於任何人在任何地方他們都能免費得建一個窗邊農場但是這些系統的專利也是會有的是由整個社區的人們所共有的出於為項目注資的目的我們的合作者做了一些產品賣給了那些沒有時間自己做的學校和個人 現在在我們的社區內一個很好的風氣已經形成了在我們文化裡 我們認為成為一個實踐者去支持他人的想法比僅僅成為一個倫理家要好的多我們從這個項目中得到是從我們自己工作中的自信和真真為環境做點事情的體驗而非僅僅是換換燈泡而已其實我感覺艾琳對我們從中得到了什麽說的最好那就是合作的純粹的快樂她說這種快樂就像是在世界旅途的半路中碰到了一個撿起了你的想法的人 擴充了你的想法的人然後感謝你的想法的人假如我們真的想看到我們作為環境學家和food people所說的巨大的消費行為改變可能其實我們僅僅只需要挖掘一下消費者的潛能找到那些想做點是的人就好了 公開資源項目也要有它們的春天了並且我們現在看到的R＆diy也已經從窗邊農場加上led向太陽能板和養耕共生轉變我們是在前代們的發明基礎上建立起來的現在我們也在尋找下一代那些需要我們的幫助重組他們生活的人我要求你加入到我們與我們一起重新定義公民這個小單位的價值並與我們一同宣佈我們還是開創者 （鼓掌）
