Talk	en	zh-tw
bruce_aylward_how_we_ll_stop_polio	"I want to share with you over the next 18 minutes a pretty incredible idea. Actually, it's a really big idea. But to get us started, I want to ask if everyone could just close your eyes for two seconds and try and think of a technology or a bit of science that you think has changed the world. Now I bet, in this audience, you're thinking of some really incredible technology, some stuff that I haven't even heard of, I'm absolutely sure. But I'm also sure, pretty sure, that absolutely nobody is thinking of this. This is a polio vaccine. And it's a great thing actually that nobody's had to think about it here today because it means that we can take this for granted. This is a great technology. We can take it completely for granted. But it wasn't always that way. Even here in California, if we were to go back just a few years, it was a very different story. People were terrified of this disease. They were terrified of polio, and it would cause public panic. And it was because of scenes like this. In this scene, people are living in an iron lung. These are people who were perfectly healthy two or three days before, and then two days later, they can no longer breathe, and this polio virus has paralyzed not only their arms and their legs, but also their breathing muscles. And they were going to spend the rest of their lives, usually, in this iron lung to breathe for them. This disease was terrifying. There was no cure, and there was no vaccine. The disease was so terrifying that the president of the United States launched an extraordinary national effort to find a way to stop it. Twenty years later, they succeeded and developed the polio vaccine. It was hailed as a scientific miracle in the late 1950s. Finally, a vaccine that could stop this awful disease, and here in the United States it had an incredible impact. As you can see, the virus stopped, and it stopped very, very fast. But this wasn't the case everywhere in the world. And it happened so fast in the United States, however, that even just last month Jon Stewart said this: (Video) Jon Stewart: Where is polio still active? Because I thought that had been eradicated in the way that smallpox had been eradicated. Bruce Aylward: Oops. Jon, polio's almost been eradicated. But the reality is that polio still exists today. We made this map for Jon to try to show him exactly where polio still exists. This is the picture. There's not very much left in the world. But the reason there's not very much left is because there's been an extraordinary public/private partnership working behind the scenes, almost unknown, I'm sure to most of you here today. It's been working for 20 years to try and eradicate this disease, and it's got it down to these few cases that you can see here on this graphic. But just last year, we had an incredible shock and realized that almost just isn't good enough with a virus like polio. And this is the reason: in two countries that hadn't had this disease for more than probably a decade, on opposite sides of the globe, there was suddenly terrible polio outbreaks. Hundreds of people were paralyzed. Hundreds of people died — children as well as adults. And in both cases, we were able to use genetic sequencing to look at the polio viruses, and we could tell these viruses were not from these countries. They had come from thousands of miles away. And in one case, it originated on another continent. And not only that, but when they came into these countries, then they got on commercial jetliners probably and they traveled even farther to other places like Russia, where, for the first time in over a decade last year, children were crippled and paralyzed by a disease that they had not seen for years. Now all of these outbreaks that I just showed you, these are under control now, and it looks like they'll probably stop very, very quickly. But the message was very clear. Polio is still a devastating, explosive disease. It's just happening in another part of the world. And our big idea is that the scientific miracle of this decade should be the complete eradication of poliomyelitis. So I want to tell you a little bit about what this partnership, the Polio Partnership, is trying to do. We're not trying to control polio. We're not trying to get it down to just a few cases, because this disease is like a root fire; it can explode again if you don't snuff it out completely. So what we're looking for is a permanent solution. We want a world in which every child, just like you guys, can take for granted a polio-free world. So we're looking for a permanent solution, and this is where we get lucky. This is one of the very few viruses in the world where there are big enough cracks in its armor that we can try to do something truly extraordinary. This virus can only survive in people. It can't live for a very long time in people. It doesn't survive in the environment hardly at all. And we've got pretty good vaccines, as I've just showed you. So we are trying to wipe out this virus completely. What the polio eradication program is trying to do is to kill the virus itself that causes polio everywhere on Earth. Now we don't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this, to eradicating diseases. It's been tried six times in the last century, and it's been successful exactly once. And this is because disease eradication, it's still the venture capital of public health. The risks are massive, but the pay-off — economic, humanitarian, motivational — it's absolutely huge. One congressman here in the United States thinks that the entire investment that the U.S. put into smallpox eradication pays itself off every 26 days — in foregone treatment costs and vaccination costs. And if we can finish polio eradication, the poorest countries in the world are going to save over 50 billion dollars in the next 25 years alone. So those are the kind of stakes that we're after. But smallpox eradication was hard; it was very, very hard. And polio eradication, in many ways, is even tougher, and there's a few reasons for that. The first is that, when we started trying to eradicate polio about 20 years ago, more than twice as many countries were infected than had been when we started off with smallpox. And there were more than 10 times as many people living in these countries. So it was a massive effort. The second challenge we had was — in contrast to the smallpox vaccine, which was very stable, and a single dose protected you for life — the polio vaccine is incredibly fragile. It deteriorates so quickly in the tropics that we've had to put this special vaccine monitor on every single vial so that it will change very quickly when it's exposed to too much heat, and we can tell that it's not a good vaccine to use on a child — it's not potent; it's not going to protect them. Even then, kids need many doses of the vaccine. But the third challenge we have — and probably even bigger one, the biggest challenge — is that, in contrast to smallpox where you could always see your enemy — every single person almost who was infected with smallpox had this telltale rash. So you could get around the disease; you could vaccinate around the disease and cut it off. With polio it's almost completely different. The vast majority of people who are infected with the polio virus show absolutely no sign of the disease. So you can't see the enemy most of the time, and as a result, we've needed a very different approach to eradicate polio than what was done with smallpox. We've had to create one of the largest social movements in history. There's over 10 million people, probably 20 million people, largely volunteers, who have been working over the last 20 years in what has now been called the largest internationally-coordinated operation in peacetime. These people, these 20 million people, vaccinate over 500 million children every single year, multiple times at the peak of our operation. Now giving the polio vaccine is simple. It's just two drops, like that. But reaching 500 million people is much, much tougher. And these vaccinators, these volunteers, they have got to dive headlong into some of the toughest, densest urban slums in the world. They've got to trek under sweltering suns to some of the most remote, difficult to reach places in the world. And they also have to dodge bullets, because we have got to operate during shaky cease-fires and truces to try and vaccinate children, even in areas affected by conflict. One reporter who was watching our program in Somalia about five years ago — a place which has eradicated polio, not once, but twice, because they got reinfected. He was sitting outside of the road, watching one of these polio campaigns unfold, and a few months later he wrote: ""This is foreign aid at its most heroic."" And these heroes, they come from every walk of life, all sorts of backgrounds. But one of the most extraordinary is Rotary International. This is a group whose million-strong army of volunteers have been working to eradicate polio for over 20 years. They're right at the center of the whole thing. Now it took years to build up the infrastructure for polio eradication — more than 15 years, much longer than it should have — but once it was built, the results were striking. Within a couple of years, every country that started polio eradication rapidly eradicated all three of their polio viruses, with the exception of four countries that you see here. And in each of those, it was only part of the country. And then, by 1999, one of the three polio viruses that we were trying to eradicate had been completely eradicated worldwide — proof of concept. And then today, there's been a 99 percent reduction — greater than 99 percent reduction — in the number of children who are being paralyzed by this awful disease. When we started, over 20 years ago, 1,000 children were being paralyzed every single day by this virus. Last year, it was 1,000. And at the same time, the polio eradication program has been working to help with a lot of other areas. It's been working to help control pandemic flu, SARS for example. It's also tried to save children by doing other things — giving vitamin A drops, giving measles shots, giving bed nets against malaria even during some of these campaigns. But the most exciting thing that the polio eradication program has been doing has been to force us, the international community, to reach every single child, every single community, the most vulnerable people in the world, with the most basic of health services, irrespective of geography, poverty, culture and even conflict. So things were looking very exciting, and then about five years ago, this virus, this ancient virus, started to fight back. The first problem we ran into was that, in these last four countries, the strongholds of this virus, we just couldn't seem to get the virus rooted out. And then to make the matters even worse, the virus started to spread out of these four places, especially northern India and northern Nigeria, into much of Africa, Asia, and even into Europe, causing horrific outbreaks in places that had not seen this disease for decades. And then, in one of the most important, tenacious and toughest reservoirs of the polio virus in the world, we found that our vaccine was working half as well as it should have. In conditions like this, the vaccine just couldn't get the grip it needed to in the guts of these children and protect them the way that it needed to. Now at that time, there was a great, as you can imagine, frustration — let's call it frustration — it started to grow very, very quickly. And all of a sudden, some very important voices in the world of public health started to say, ""Hang on. We should abandon this idea of eradication. Let's settle for control — that's good enough."" Now as seductive as the idea of control sounds, it's a false premise. The brutal truth is, if we don't have the will or the skill, or even the money that we need to reach children, the most vulnerable children in the world, with something as simple as an oral polio vaccine, then pretty soon, more than 200,000 children are again going to be paralyzed by this disease every single year. There's absolutely no question. These are children like Umar. Umar is seven years old, and he's from northern Nigeria. He lives in a family home there with his eight brothers and sisters. Umar also has polio. Umar was paralyzed for life. His right leg was paralyzed in 2004. This leg, his right leg, now takes an awful beating because he has to half-crawl, because it's faster to move that way to keep up with his friends, keep up with his brothers and sisters, than to get up on his crutches and walk. But Umar is a fantastic student. He's an incredible kid. As you probably can't see the detail here, but this is his report card, and you'll see, he's got perfect scores. He got 100 percent in all the important things, like nursery rhymes, for example there. But you know I'd love to be able to tell you that Umar is a typical kid with polio these days, but it's not true. Umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances. The reality of polio today is something very different. Polio strikes the poorest communities in the world. It leaves their children paralyzed, and it drags their families deeper into poverty, because they're desperately searching and they're desperately spending the little bit of savings that they have, trying in vain to find a cure for their children. We think children deserve better. And so when the going got really tough in the polio eradication program about two years ago, when people were saying, ""We should call it off,"" the Polio Partnership decided to buckle down once again and try and find innovative new solutions, new ways to get to the children that we were missing again and again. In northern India, we started mapping the cases using satellite imaging like this, so that we could guide our investments and vaccinator shelters, so we could get to the millions of children on the Koshi River basin where there are no other health services. In northern Nigeria, the political leaders and the traditional Muslim leaders, they got directly involved in the program to help solve the problems of logistics and community confidence. And now they've even started using these devices — speaking of cool technology — these little devices, little GIS trackers like this, which they put into the vaccine carriers of their vaccinators. And then they can track them, and at the end of the day, they look and see, did these guys get every single street, every single house. This is the kind of commitment now we're seeing to try and reach all of the children we've been missing. And in Afghanistan, we're trying new approaches — access negotiators. We're working closely with the International Committee of the Red Cross to ensure that we can reach every child. But as we tried these extraordinary things, as people went to this trouble to try and rework their tactics, we went back to the vaccine — it's a 50-year-old vaccine — and we thought, surely we can make a better vaccine, so that when they finally get to these kids, we can have a better bang for our buck. And this started an incredible collaboration with industry, and within six months, we were testing a new polio vaccine that targeted, just two years ago, the last two types of polio in the world. Now June the ninth, 2009, we got the first results from the first trial with this vaccine, and it turned out to be a game-changer. The new vaccine had twice the impact on these last couple of viruses as the old vaccine had, and we immediately started using this. Well, in a couple of months we had to get it out of production. And it started rolling off the production lines and into the mouths of children around the world. And we didn't start with the easy places. The first place this vaccine was used was in southern Afghanistan, because it's in places like that where kids are going to benefit the most from technologies like this. Now here at TED, over the last couple of days, I've seen people challenging the audience again and again to believe in the impossible. So this morning at about seven o'clock, I decided that we'd try to drive Chris and the production crew here berserk by downloading all of our data from India again, so that you could see something that's just unfolding today, which proves that the impossible is possible. And only two years ago, people were saying that this is impossible. Now remember, northern India is the perfect storm when it comes to polio. Over 500,000 children are born in the two states that have never stopped polio — Uttar Pradesh and Bihar — 500,000 children every single month. Sanitation is terrible, and our old vaccine, you remember, worked half as well as it should have. And yet, the impossible is happening. Today marks exactly six months — and for the first time in history, not a single child has been paralyzed in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. (Applause) India's not unique. In Umar's home country of Nigeria, a 95 percent reduction in the number of children paralyzed by polio last year. And in the last six months, we've had less places reinfected by polio than at any other time in history. Ladies and gentlemen, with a combination of smart people, smart technology and smart investments, polio can now be eradicated anywhere. We have major challenges, you can imagine, to finish this job, but as you've also seen, it's doable, it has great secondary benefits, and polio eradication is a great buy. And as long as any child anywhere is paralyzed by this virus, it's a stark reminder that we are failing, as a society, to reach children with the most basic of services. And for that reason, polio eradication: it's the ultimate in equity and it's the ultimate in social justice. The huge social movement that's been involved in polio eradication is ready to do way more for these children. It's ready to reach them with bed nets, with other things. But capitalizing on their enthusiasm, capitalizing on their energy means finishing the job that they started 20 years ago. Finishing polio is a smart thing to do, and it's the right thing to do. Now we're in tough times economically. But as David Cameron of the United Kingdom said about a month ago when he was talking about polio, ""There's never a wrong time to do the right thing."" Finishing polio eradication is the right thing to do. And we are at a crossroads right now in this great effort over the last 20 years. We have a new vaccine, we have new resolve, and we have new tactics. We have the chance to write an entirely new polio-free chapter in human history. But if we blink now, we will lose forever the chance to eradicate an ancient disease. Here's a great idea to spread: End polio now. Help us tell the story. Help us build the momentum so that very soon every child, every parent everywhere can also take for granted a polio-free life forever. Thank you. (Applause) Bill Gates: Well Bruce, where do you think the toughest places are going to be? Where would you say we need to be the smartest? BA: The four places where you saw, that we've never stopped — northern Nigeria, northern India, the southern corner of Afghanistan and bordering areas of Pakistan — they're going to be the toughest. But the interesting thing is, of those three, India's looking real good, as you just saw in the data. And Afghanistan, Afghanistan, we think has probably stopped polio repeatedly. It keeps getting reinfected. So the tough ones: going to get the top of Nigeria finished and getting Pakistan finished. They're going to be the tough ones. BG: Now what about the money? Give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year. And is it easy to raise that money? And what's it going to be like the next couple of years? BA: It's interesting. We spend right now about 750 million to 800 million dollars a year. That's what it costs to reach 500 million children. It sounds like a lot of money; it is a lot of money. But when you're reaching 500 million children multiple times — 20, 30 cents to reach a child — that's not very much money. But right now we don't have enough of that. We have a big gap in that money. We're cutting corners, and every time we cut corners, more places get infected that shouldn't have, and it just slows us down. And that great buy costs us a little bit more. BG: Well, hopefully we'll get the word out, and the governments will keep their generosity up. So good luck. We're all in this with you. Thank you. (BA: Thank you.) (Applause)"	"在接下來的18分鐘裡我想和大家說一個不可思議的想法事實上，這是一個很大的想法但在我們開始之前我想請在座各位閉上眼睛，花兩秒的時間試著去思考一項你認為是改變世界的科技或科學我敢說，在座各位你們想到的確實是些很驚人的科技有些我甚至從未聽聞我非常確信是如此但我也相當確定在座沒有任何人有想過這樣東西這是小兒麻痺症疫苗 這是一項偉大的發明但今天在這個場合不會有人想到因為我們認為這件事是理所當然的這是一項偉大的科技我們當然會這樣想但事情不是總是這樣的即便在加州如果我們回到過去幾年前事情的發展是完全不同的人們非常害怕這種疾病小兒麻痺症讓大眾感到恐懼，造成社會恐慌也因為這樣的景象這張照片裡人要依賴鐵肺才能存活這些人兩三天前都還是相當健康的但兩天後他們無法呼吸小兒麻痺病毒不僅是讓他們四肢癱瘓更讓他們的呼吸肌無法作用通常他們的後半生必須仰賴鐵肺，幫助他們呼吸 這種疾病令人聞之喪膽當時沒有治癒的方法也沒有疫苗這種疾病令人惶恐不安當時的美國總統發了特令動用國家資源企圖找到治療方法二十年後，他們成功了研發出小兒麻痺症疫苗這在50年代後期被譽為是科學奇蹟終於有疫苗可以終止這種可怕的疾病在美國疫苗有驚人的效應大家可以看到，疫情止住了而且是迅速地終止 但在世界上的其他地方就並非如此了這在美國發生的太快了而就在上個月，Jon Stewart這樣說 Jon Stewart：哪些地區仍然有小兒麻痺症？我以為小兒麻痺症已經被根絕就像天花那樣已經完全根絕了 Bruce Aylward：喔，Jon，小兒麻痺是幾乎要被根絕事實上小兒麻痺症到今天仍然存在我們製作了地圖讓Jon了解至今哪些地區仍存在有小兒麻痺症就是這張圖雖然世界上只有少數地區仍有此問題至於大部分地區沒有這項問題是因為背後有傑出的公共/私人的組織機構持續為這項問題在努力我想今天在座各位是不知道的他們已經努力了二十年嘗試要根絕這種疾病從這張圖表上可以看到這種疾病依然存在這少數幾個區域 但就在去年我們發現一樁令人驚駭的事然後我們意識到就小兒麻痺病毒而言""幾乎""根絕是還不夠的原因是：在地球另一端有兩個國家已經有超過將近十年的時間沒有再出現過小兒麻痺症病例卻突然爆發嚴重的小兒麻痺症疫情數百人癱瘓數百人死亡有兒童，也有成人在這兩個國家我們利用基因測序檢查小兒麻痺病毒發現這些病毒並非原先就存在該地區病毒是由千里之外的地區傳過來的其中一個病例，病毒是從另一個大陸傳來的不僅如此，病毒到這些國家可能是藉由商業客機所傳遞也可能傳遞的更遠到其他地區去，例如俄羅斯在超過十年的時間，就在去年又有兒童受到這已長時間未出現的病毒感染而變成殘廢和癱瘓 我剛提到所有爆發的疫情目前都在控制中而且應該會迅速地終止但這件事很清楚地告訴我們小兒麻痺症依然是一種駭人且會爆發傳染的疾病這就發生在世界的另一個區域而我們的想法是在眼前這十年的科學奇蹟應該是要徹底根除小兒麻痺症 我想多跟你們說有關小兒麻痺症夥伴關係正嘗試在做的事我們不想只控制住疫情我們不希望還有少數地區會出現病例因為這種疾病像是星星之火如果不把它完全根除的話，它可能會再次爆發所以我們希望找到永久的解決辦法我們希望世界上所有的孩童，如同在座各位能理所當然的生活在沒有小兒麻痺症的世界我們想找到永久的解決之道我們很幸運的是小兒麻痺病毒是世界上少見能被治癒的病毒我們能試著做些真正特別的事這種病毒只會靠人類傳染在人體也無法存活很久也不能在嚴厲的環境中存活如同我剛展示的，我們有相當好的疫苗所以我們嘗試要完全根除這種病毒小兒麻痺症根絕計畫要做的事是消滅世界各地會引發小兒麻痺症的病毒 當我們開始做這樣的事時我們不曾有過根絕疾病的良好紀錄在上一個世紀中，已經嘗試過六次僅僅只有一次成功過是因為根除疾病是大眾健康的一種風險投資雖然風險甚大但是各方面的回報像是經濟，人道主義，激勵作用也絕對是龐大的一位美國的國會議員認為美國投注在根除天花的全部資源中每二十六天就能在放棄治療的費用和接種疫苗的費用上得到回饋如果我們能完成小兒麻痺症的防治世界上最窮困的國家將可以在未來的二十五年省下500億美金這才是我們在追求的利益 根除天花是件困難的事是非常困難的而根除小兒麻痺症，在很多方面又更加困難有幾個原因第一當我們在二十多年前開始嘗試要根除小兒麻痺症時有疫情的國家總數是我們開始根除天花時的兩倍這些國家的人口數則是十倍以上這需要龐大的資源第二個難處是比較起來天花疫苗非常穩定，單劑就有終生保護作用而小兒麻痺症疫苗相較脆弱在熱帶地區會快速的敗壞我們必須在每一瓶疫苗都設置特殊的疫苗監控因為疫苗暴露在高溫時變化會相當快速變成不能在兒童身上使用的疫苗沒有保護作用，不能讓他們免於病毒此外，孩童需要很多的疫苗 第三個難處是或許這是最困難的部分相較天花，你能輕易看出症狀每個感染到天花的人身上都有清楚的皮疹所以能夠找到疾病可以及時注射疫苗，讓疾病治癒但小兒麻痺症是完全不同的情況絕大多數感染小兒麻痺病毒的人幾乎看不出任何該疾病的病症大部分時間，你不清楚敵人位在何方因此我們需要一種相當不同於天花的方法來根除小兒麻痺症 我們發動了有史以來最大規模的社會運動有超過一千萬人也許是兩千萬人眾多的志工在過去二十年來在現在和平時期所說的參與這最大的國際合作行動這些人，這兩千萬人在我們的任務最高峰的時期一年替五億名孩童注射疫苗而且不只一次現在注射小兒麻痺症疫苗很簡單只要像這樣滴兩滴但替五億人注射疫苗這是更困難的這些注射疫苗的人，也就是這些志工他們必須深入到世界上一些最艱困，人口最密集的貧民窟城市他們得在炎熱的太陽下跋涉到一些最偏遠且難以到達的地方而且他們還必須躲避子彈因為我們必須要在混亂的停火和停戰的情況下嘗試為兒童接種疫苗即便是有衝突影響的地區也一樣 一位記者觀看我們五年前在索馬利亞的任務該地區已經根絕小兒麻痺症不只一次，是兩次，因為他們遭受二次感染他就坐在馬路旁觀看這些宣傳小兒麻痺症的資訊幾個月後他寫道：「這是最英雄式的外援‧」這些英雄來自來自各行各業有著不同的生活背景其中最特別的是國際扶輪社這個團體上百萬的志工們已經有超過20年致力於根除小兒麻痺症的工作他們就在這整件事情的核心 現在花了相當多年的時間建立了根除小兒麻痺症的基礎建設花了十五年的時間，遠多於預期但一旦建立完成，將會有驚人的結果幾年之內每一個實行根除小兒麻痺症計畫的國家都迅速根除了三種小兒麻痺症的病毒除了你在這裡看到的這四個國家在這四個國家裡，只有一部分的地區還有此問題在1999年當時其中一種我們試圖要根除的小兒麻痺病毒已經完全從世界上根除了這已經證實了到今天受到小兒麻痺症此種可怕病毒感染的兒童人數已減少了99%—甚至是99%以上—從二十年前，我們開始執行每一天就有1,000名兒童受到病毒感染而癱瘓去年，感染人數是1,000人 同時小兒麻痺症根除計畫已經幫助了很多地區也同時幫助控制了流感大流行例如SARS(傳染性非典型肺炎)他們也試圖給予孩童其他幫助 —給予維他命A滴劑，注射麻疹疫苗甚至在其中一些活動中提供蚊帳防治瘧疾但最令人振奮的事是小兒麻痺症根除計畫迫使我們國際間的社會團體去到每一個社區，聯繫上每一名孩童他們是世界上最脆弱的族群提供他們最基本的保健服務不論地理位置，貧困文化，甚至衝突 原先這一切令人振奮但在五年前這種古老的病毒又捲土重來我們碰到的第一個問題是在這最後的四個國家，病毒的大本營我們似乎就是沒辦法讓病毒完全根除更糟糕的情況是病毒開始蔓延到這四個國家以外的地區自印度北部和奈及利亞北部進入非洲許多地區，亞洲，甚至到歐洲造成可怕的疫情這些地方已經幾十年沒有出現過病例然後在一個最重要，最頑強的小兒麻痺病毒的傳染窩我們發現我們的疫苗功效只有原先的一半在這樣的條件下疫苗無法有效作用給予這些孩子他們所需要的保護 在當時各位可以想像的到，一股非常大的挫敗 —我們認為是挫敗—這種氣氛擴散的非常快突然，非常多來自世界公衛組織的聲音開始說「等等。」「我們該放棄根除病毒的想法了。」「我們就試圖控制住疫情—這樣就很好了。」現在，控制疫情的想法的確吸引人但這是個錯誤的想法殘酷的事實是如果我們沒有意願或技能甚至所需要的經費運用簡單的口服小兒麻痺症疫苗去保護這些世界上最脆弱的孩童們那麼很快未來每年將會有超過二十萬的兒童會因此疾病變成癱瘓這是毫無疑問的 這些孩童就像Umar一樣Umar現年七歲他住在奈及利亞北部他和八個兄弟姊妹同住在一起Umar罹患小兒麻痺症Umar後半生都會是癱瘓他的右腿在2004年時癱瘓了他的右腿現在有嚴重的挫傷因為他必須半爬這樣移動的速度會快些好跟上他的朋友，他的兄弟姊妹這比起拿拐杖行走的速度要快但Umar是位了不起的學生，他令人讚嘆各位可能沒辦法看清楚這上頭的字但這是他的成績單可以看出來，他的成績相當好他在所有重要的項目都拿滿分例如這邊寫的，像是童謠各位也許認為我會說Umar是這些年來典型罹患小兒麻痺症的孩子但不是Umar是例外他是在特殊情況下感染的 事實上今天的小兒麻痺症是非常不一樣的小兒麻痺症擊垮世界上最窮困的地區它讓該地區的孩童癱瘓拖垮他們的家庭讓全家陷入更貧困的境地因為他們的家庭拼命地尋找不顧一切地支出他們僅存的積蓄妄圖尋找治癒他們的孩子的解藥我們認為兒童該過更好的生活所以在兩年前根除小兒麻痺症計畫最瓶頸的時候當人們都在說「我們應該停止」小兒麻痺症夥伴關係決定再一次傾全力嘗試找尋新的解決方法以新的方式去聯繫上我們一次又一次錯過的孩童們 在印度的北部，我們運用衛星圖定位出每一個病例我們就能通知資方，還有疫苗接種站然後就能聯繫上位在戈西河流域的數百萬名兒童那裏沒有其他的醫療服務在奈及利亞北部政治領導人和傳統的穆斯林領袖他們直接參與了該計劃幫助解決後勤的問題和建立社會信心 現在他們甚至已經開始使用這些設備談一點新的科技這些小型全球地理資訊系統的裝置讓疫苗接種人員放在疫苗載具上然後就能追蹤他們並在結束日查看看他們是否有走完每一條街道，去過每一棟房子這是我們想做到的承諾試圖幫助所有我們錯過的每一名孩子而在阿富汗，我們正嘗試新的方法進入談判我們密切與國際紅十字會合作以確保我們能聯繫上每一名孩童 當我們嘗試做這些特別的事當其他人重新檢視問題重新修正戰術我們也檢討了這支50歲的疫苗然後我們想，我們當然可以研發一支很好的疫苗讓志工們聯繫上這些孩童們時能提供更好的防疫效果因此就展開一場與產業的驚奇合作六個月內我們測試了新的小兒麻痺症疫苗就在兩年前，針對的是世界上最後兩種小兒麻痺病毒2009年六月九日我們得到了疫苗第一次測試的結果局面馬上改觀新的疫苗在對付這兩種病毒的功效是舊疫苗的兩倍我們立即開始使用新的疫苗幾個月內，我們必須開始生產讓疫苗進入生產線然後完成進到世界各地每一位孩子的口中我們沒有從疫情輕微的地方開始新的疫苗首次使用是在阿富汗南部因為目的本該是運用科技讓孩童們獲益更多 在TED這裡，過去幾天許多人一次又一次不斷地宣揚企圖讓人相信不可能的發生今天早上大約七點左右我決定我們要讓Chris還有製作團隊再麻煩一次把我們在印度的數據重新下載所以你可以看到這些數據是今天才發表這證明了不可能是能達成的就在兩年前，大家都在說這是不可能的還記得每當提及小兒麻痺症印度北部總是令人頭痛有超過五十萬名兒童出生在這小兒麻痺症肆虐的北方邦和比哈爾邦每個月有五十萬名兒童感染衛生條件相當糟糕你們應該有印象我們的舊疫苗功效只有一半然而不可能的事發生了今天剛好滿六個月史上第一次在北方邦和比哈爾邦沒有任何一位孩童感染 (掌聲) 印度並不是唯一在Umar的家鄉，奈及利亞去年兒童因感染小兒麻痺而癱瘓的比率下降了95%在過去半年二次感染小兒麻痺的地區也比過去來的更少 各位女士們，先生們在結合優秀人力，優良科技以及優質發明任何地區都能根除小兒麻痺症你們可以想像，要完成這項任務是種巨大的挑戰但各位也看到了這是可行的它的次要效益是很大的根絕小兒麻痺症是值得投資的只要任何地方有兒童受到病毒侵襲而癱瘓這是清楚的告訴我們我們的社會沒辦法提供每一位孩童最基本的保障因此，根絕小兒麻痺症是最終的公平也是最終的社會正義這場根除小兒麻痺症的大型社會運動已經準備好為這些孩童們做更多的事提供他們蚊帳和其他事物運用他們的熱情善用他們的精力要完成這項他們二十年前就開始的工作 根除小兒麻痺症是明智的更是正確的我們現在處在財政困難的時期但如同一個月前英國首相David Cameron在他談到小兒麻痺症時所說的「只要是做對的事時間永遠不會是錯的。」根除小兒麻痺症就是對的事我們正處在關鍵時刻經過二十年來的眾多努力我們有了新的疫苗我們有新的解決方法我們也有新的策略我們有機會在人類歷史上寫下無小兒麻痺症的新頁但如果我們現在疏忽我們將永遠失去可以根除這個古老疾病的機會這個偉大的想法要傳遞出去現在就終結小兒麻痺症幫助我們傳遞這故事幫助我們宣揚這股動力然後很快的每一個孩子，每一對父母每一個地方都能理所當然永遠地過著沒有小兒麻痺症的生活 謝謝各位 (掌聲) Bill Gates：Bruce，你覺得未來最困難的事情會是什麼？你覺得我們最該注意的什麼地方？ BA：剛看過的四個地區是我們一直沒辦法終止疫情奈及利亞北部，印度北部阿富汗南方一角以及巴基斯坦邊界地區這四個區域會是最困難的但有趣的是，其中三個地區印度目前情況很好，像各位剛在數據上看到的至於阿富汗，我們認為可能已經終止小兒麻痺再現但仍然有病例傳出因此困難的地方是：首要終止奈及利亞的疫情接著是巴基斯坦這些區域是困難的 BG：那有關經費呢？跟我們談談一年需要的宣傳經費是多少？是否容易獲取更多的經費？在未來幾年，經費的運用會是如何？ BA：這很有趣我們目前每年約花費7.5億到8億美金這是要幫5億名孩童注射疫苗的花費這聽起來很多錢；不過這的確是非常多錢但你想想，要幫5億名孩童多次注射疫苗每個孩子花20，30分錢這樣其實不多但現在我們的經費不太夠我們需要很多經費，有時我們減少疫苗注射的次數但每當我們減少疫苗注射的次數有更多地區又出現新的病例，這讓我們的工作延宕因此又得花費更多經費 BG：希望這消息能傳遞出去然後政府能再補助更多的經費祝福你，我們都支持這項計畫謝謝你 (BA：謝謝你) (掌聲)"
