Talk	en	zh-tw
bruno_torturra_got_a_smartphone_start_broadcasting	"Has anyone among you ever been exposed to tear gas? Tear gas? Anyone? I'm sorry to hear that, so you might know that it's a very toxic substance, but you might not know that it's a very simple molecule with an unpronouncable name: it's called chlorobenzalmalononitrile. I made it. It's decades old, but it's becoming very trendy among police forces around the planet lately, it seems, and according to my experience as a non-voluntary breather of it, tear gas has two main but quite opposite effects. One, it can really burn your eyes, and two, it can also help you to open them. Tear gas definitely helped to open mine to something that I want to share with you this afternoon: that livestreaming the power of independent broadcasts through the web can be a game-changer in journalism, in activism, and as I see it, in the political discourse as well. That idea started  to dawn on me in early 2011 when I was covering a protest in São Paulo. It was the marijuana march, a gathering of people asking for the legalization of cannabis. When that group started to move, the riot police came from the back with rubber bullets, bombs, and then the gas. But to make a long story short, I had entered that protest as the editor-in-chief of a well-established printed magazine where I'd worked for 11 years, and thanks to this unsolicited effects of tear gas, I left it as a journalist that was now committed to new ways of sharing the raw experience of what it's like to be there, actually. So in the following week, I was back in the streets, but that time, I wasn't a member of any media outlet anymore. I was there as an independent livestreamer, and all I had with me was basically borrowed equipment. I had a very simple camera and a backpack with 3G modems. And I had this weblink that could be shared through social media, could be put in any website, and that time, the protest went along fine. There was no violence. There was no action scenes. But there was something really exciting, because I could see at a distance the TV channels covering it, and they had these big vans and the teams and the cameras, and I was basically doing the same thing and all I had was a backpack. And that was really exciting to a journalist, but the most interesting part was when I got back home, actually, because I learned that I had been watched by more than 90,000 people, and I got hundreds of emails and messages of people asking me, basically, how did I do it, how it was possible to do such a thing. And I learned something else, that that was actually the first time that somebody had ever done a livestreaming in a street protest in the country. And that really shocked me, because I was no geek, I was no technology guy, and all the equipment needed was already there, was easily available. And I realized that we had a frontier here, a very important one, that it was just a matter of changing the perspective, and the web could be actually used, already used, as a colossal and uncontrollable and highly anarchical TV channel, TV network, and anyone with very basic skills and very basic equipment, even someone like me who had this little stuttering issue, so if it happens, bear with me please, even someone like me could become a broadcaster. And that sounded revolutionary in my mind. So for the next couple of years, I started to experiment with livestreaming in different ways, not only in the streets but mostly in studios and in homes, until the beginning of 2013, last year, when I became the cofounder of a group called Mídia NINJA. NINJA is an acronym that stands for Narrativas Independentes  Jornalismo e Ação, or in English, independent narratives, journalism, and action. It was a media group that had little media plan. We didn't have any financial structure. We were not planning to make money out of this, which was wise, because you shouldn't try to make money out of journalism now. But we had a very solid and clear conviction, that we knew that the hyperconnected environment of social media could maybe allow us to consolidate a network of experimental journalists throughout the country. So we launched a Facebook page first, and then a manifesto, and started to cover the streets in a very simple way. But then something happened, something that wasn't predicted, that no one could have anticipated. Street protests started to erupt in São Paulo. They began as very local and specific. They were against the bus fare hike that had just happened in the city. This is a bus. It's written there, ""Theft."" But those kind of manifestations started to grow, and they kept happening. So the police violence against them started to grow as well. But there was another conflict, the one I believe that's more important here to make my point that it was a narrative conflict. There was this mainstream media version of the facts that anyone who was on the streets could easily challenge if they presented their own vision of what was actually happening there. And it was this clash of visions, this clash of narratives, that I think turned those protests into a long period in the country of political reckoning where hundreds of thousands of people, probably more than a million people took to the streets in the whole country. But it wasn't about the bus fare hike anymore. It was about everything. The people's demands, their expectations, the reasons why they were on the streets could be as diverse as they could be contradictory in many cases. If you could read it, you would understand me. But it was in this environment of political catharsis that the country was going through that it had to do with politics, indeed, but it had to do also with a new way of organizing, through a new way of communicating. It was in that environment that Mídia NINJA emerged from almost anonymity to become a national phenomenon, because we did have the right equipment. We are not using big cameras. We are using basically this. We are using smartphones. And that, actually, allowed us to become invisible in the middle of the protests, but it allowed us to do something else: to show what it was like to be in the protests, to present to people at home a subjective perspective. But there was something that is more important, I think, than the equipment. It was our mindset, because we are not behaving as a media outlet. We are not competing for news. We are trying to encourage people, to invite people, and to actually teach people how to do this, how they also could become broadcasters. And that was crucial to turn Mídia NINJA from a small group of people, and in a matter of weeks, we multiplied and we grew exponentially throughout the country. So in a matter of a week or two, as the protests kept happening, we were hundreds of young people connected in this network throughout the country. We were covering more than 50 cities at the same time. That's something that no TV channel could ever do. That was responsible for turning us suddenly, actually, into kind of the mainstream media of social media. So we had a couple of thousands of followers on our Facebook page, and soon we had a quarter of a million followers. Our posts and our videos were being seen by more than 11 million timelines a week. It was way more than any newspaper or any magazine could ever do. And that turned Mídia NINJA into something else, more than a media outlet, than a media project. It became almost like a public service to the citizen, to the protester, to the activist, because they had a very simple and efficient and peaceful tool to confront both police and media authority. Many of our images started  to be used in regular TV channels. Our livestreams started to be broadcast even in regular televisions when things got really rough. Some our images were responsible to take some people out of jail, people who were being arrested unfairly under false accusations, and we could prove them innocent. And that also turned Mídia NINJA very soon to be seen as almost an enemy of cops, unfortunately, and we started to be severely beaten, and eventually arrested on the streets. It happened in many cases. But that was also useful, because we were still at the web, so that helped to trigger an important debate in the country on the role of the media itself and the state of the freedom of the press in the country. So Mídia NINJA now evolved and finally consolidated itself in what we hoped it would become: a national network of hundreds of young people, self-organizing themselves locally to cover social, human rights issues, and expressing themselves not only politically but journalistically. What I started to do in the beginning of this year, as Mídia NINJA is already a self-organizing network, I'm dedicating myself to another project. It's called Fluxo, which is Portuguese for ""stream."" It's a journalism studio in São Paulo downtown, where I used livestream to experiment with what I call post-television formats. But I'm also trying to come up with ways to finance independent journalism through a direct relationship with an audience, with an active audience, because now I really want to try to make a living out of my tear gas resolution back then. But there's something more significant here, something that I believe is more important and more crucial than my personal example. I said that livestream could turn the web into a colossal TV network, but I believe it does something else, because after watching people using it, not only to cover things but to express, to organize themselves politically, I believe livestream can turn cyberspace into a global political arena where everyone might have a voice, a proper voice, because livestream takes the monopoly of the broadcast political discourse, of the verbal aspect of the political dialogue out of the mouths of just politicians and political pundits alone, and it empowers the citizen through this direct and non-mediated power of exchanging experiences and dialogue, empowers them to question and to influence authorities in ways in which we are about to see. And I believe it does something else that might be even more important, that the simplicity of the technology can merge objectivity and subjectivity in a very political way, as I see it, because it really helps the audience, the citizen, to see the world through somebody else's eye, so it helps the citizen to put him- or herself in other people's place. And that idea, I think,  should be the intention, should be the goal of any good journalism, any good activism, but most of all, any good politics. Thank you very much. It was an honor. (Applause)"	在座有人曾經接觸過催淚瓦斯嗎？催淚瓦斯？有人接觸過嗎？我很抱歉聽到有人接觸過，如你所知那是種毒性很強的物質，但你可能不知道它是一個非常簡單的分子，名字很難唸，叫做「chlorobenzalmalononitrile 」。我成功了。它有幾十年歷史，但最近似乎開始流行於全球的警察機關。以我本人經驗，作為一個非自願的吸入者，催淚瓦斯有兩個非常不同的效果。一，它能嚴重灼傷你的眼睛，二，它也能讓你睜大眼睛、開拓眼界。 催淚瓦斯確實讓我看到一些事情，今天下午我想和你們分享：就是「直播串流」在網路獨立廣播的力量。它可以成為改變新聞報導的利器，實踐主義，以我之見，也可用於政治論述。 這個想法於2011年初開始萌芽，那時我在報導聖保羅的抗議活動。那是一次關於大麻的遊行，人群聚集起來，要求將大麻合法化。當示威隊伍開始移動時，鎮暴警察帶著橡膠子彈、炸彈和催淚彈，從隊伍後面出現。長話短說，我參加了那次示威遊行，作為一本知名印刷雜誌的總編，而我已為雜誌社工作了11年。多虧催淚瓦斯帶來的霸道效果，我離開了那家雜誌社，並以一名記者的身分，致力於以新的方式分享我在其中的粗淺經驗。 在後來的一個星期，我回到街頭，但這次，我不再是任何傳媒機構的一員。而是一個獨立的現場流式傳播者，身上帶的設備全是借來的。我有一個簡單的攝像機，一個裝著3G數據機的背包，還有一個可以分享到社群網站的網路連結，這個網路連結可以放入任何網站。那時，示威進行得相當不錯，沒有暴力、沒有動作場面。但還是有些令人興奮的事情。我看到遠處有一些電視臺在做報導，他們有很大的轉播車、採訪隊和許多攝像機。我基本上和他們做的是一樣的，而我有的只是一個背包。對新聞記者來說那是真的很令人興奮。實際上，但是最有趣的是當我回到家，我聽說有9萬多人看了我的報導。我收到數百封的電郵和短訊，許多人問我，我是怎麼做的，我如何能夠做這樣一件事。 我也得知，那是第一次有人為一個街頭示威做「現場流式傳播」，在這個國家里是第一次。那令我非常驚訝，因為我不是極客，也不是科技宅，所有需要的設備就是那些，幾乎隨手可得。然後我意識到，這裡有一個待開發的領域。一個很重要的領域，而那只是改變視野而已。網路真正可以，也已經被用來作為一個巨大的，且無法控制的電視頻道和電視網，任何有基本技能和基本設備的人，甚至像我有輕微口吃的人。如果有磕巴的地方請多包涵。甚至像我這樣的人都能成為一個傳播者。在我心裏那聽起來很具革命性。 在接下來的幾年，我開始實驗用不同的方式做即時流式傳播，不只是在街上，而是大多在工作室內和房子裏，直到去年，2013年初，我成為一個叫做「媒體隱者」（Mídia NINJA） 的團體的共同創辦人。NINJA 是縮寫，代表（葡萄牙文）Narrativas Independentes Jornalismo e Ação。英文的意思是獨立敘事、新聞報導、和行動。那是一個沒有媒體計劃的媒體團體。我們沒有任何財政結構。我們沒有計劃要以此賺錢，因為你不應嘗試從新聞報導獲利，所以那是明智之舉。但是我們有非常堅定和清楚的信念，我們知道社會媒體的超級連結，可能容許我們鞏固成一個遍及全國的一個實驗性的新聞記者的廣播網。因此我們就先開始了一個臉書網頁，然後一個宣言，然後以一個非常簡單的方式，從街道開始報導。 然而，我們沒預料的事情發生了，沒人曾預想到的。聖保羅的街道上的示威者開始爆發。開始時是小小的和一些特定的範圍的。他們反對那時剛開始實施的市區公車票漲價。那是一輛公車。上面寫著「偷盜」。但是那類的示威開始擴大，且不斷在發生。警察對他們的暴力鎮壓也開始增強。但是又有另一個衝突，這個我相信對於強調我的觀點，是更重要的。那是一個敘事觀點的衝突。那時主流媒體對這些事件的版本是，任何一個街上的人可以挑戰的。他們代表他們自己對於那裏正在發生的事情的版本。而正是這些互相抵觸的版本，和互相抵觸的敘事觀點，將那些示威轉化成，這個國家的長期的政治醞釀。那時數十萬人，甚至可能一百多萬人，在全國各地走上街頭。 那時已經不只是關於公車票的漲價。而是對所有事情的示威。大家的要求，大家的期待，他們走上街頭的理由，各自不同，甚至互相矛盾。你們若是讀的懂，你們就會了解我。但就在這個警察清除示威者的環境裏，在這個國家正在發生的，肯定與政治有關。但也因為新的組織的方式，一種溝通的新方式。「媒體隱者」就在那個環境裏出現了。從幾乎沒沒無名，成為一個國家現象，主要是因為我們有對的設備。我們沒有大照相機。我們基本上只用這個。我們使用智慧手機。那些實際上讓我們在示威者中成為隱形，它使我們做不同的事：透過展現在示威者中的樣子，向在家觀看的人們呈現一個主觀的觀點。 但更重要的是，我想，比設備更重要的，是我們的心態，因為我們不代表媒體機構。我們不是在為新聞競爭。我們嘗試鼓勵大家，邀請大家，事實上，也教導大家。教他們如何做同樣的事，也可以成為傳播者。關鍵的是對於將「媒體隱者」從少數人的團體，在數週內，我們倍增，我們在國內以指數的倍數成長。在以兩週內，當示威不斷的在發生。我們數百個年輕人，在全國各地以這個網路連接在一起。我們同時報導五十多個城市。那時沒有任何電視頻道可能做到的。實際上，那是我們突然成為類似主流的主因。在我們的臉書從約有兩千多的追隨者，很快的成長為五十萬追隨者。我們的帖子和我們的影片，一週被一千一百萬人所觀看。那是比觀看任何報章雜誌的人超出太多。 那使「媒體隱者」超越媒體機構或任何媒體專案。它幾乎成為像一個為市民、為示威者、為行動主義者的公共服務。因為他們有一個簡單、有效率且和平的工具，來對抗警察和媒體權威。許多我們的影像開始被一般電視頻道所採用。當整個事件開始變得非常暴力，我們的現場流式傳播甚至開始被一般電視廣播。因為一些我們的影像讓一些人得以從監牢釋放出來，許多人以無理的舉控，被不公平的逮捕，我們證明他們的清白。很不幸的，那使「媒體隱者」很快的幾乎被視為警察的敵人。我們開始嚴重的被打，最後在街上被逮捕。有許多那樣的案例發生。但那也很有用，因為我們仍然在網路上，以至於有助於導致在國內關於媒體的角色，以及媒體自由的現狀一個重要的辯論。 那時「媒體隱者」又更發展了，最後自己鞏固成我們原來所希望成為的，一個全國性的數百個年輕人的網絡。他們在各地自行組織，報導社會的、人權的話題。以及表達他們自己對政治、和新聞報導的立場。 因為「媒體隱者」已是一個自我組織的網路，我在今年初開始，致力於另一個專案。名為「富拉索」（Fluxo），那是「流」的葡萄牙文。那是位於聖保羅市中心的一個新聞報導的工作室。我以現場流式傳播實驗，我名之為「電視後格式」。我也要嘗試要籌錢來資助獨立新聞報導，透過一種與聽眾的直接關係，與那些主動的聽眾。因為現在我真的想要，藉著我以前因催淚瓦斯下的決心賺錢生活。 但還有更重要的事情，我相信是比我個人的例子更重要和更決定性的。我說過，現場流式傳播可能將網路變成巨大的電視網絡。但我相信它也有其他作用。因為看了其他人使用它以後，他們不只是報導，也表達和政治性地將自己組織起來。我相信「現場流式傳播」可以將電子世界轉化成一個世界政治場所。藉著它，每一個人可以表達自己，以適當的聲音表達。因為「現場流式傳播」將廣播政治演講、語言方面、和政治對話的壟斷，從政客與政治權威的嘴裡拿出來。它透過這種直接、沒有中間者的力量，經由相互交換經驗和對話，以我們將要看到的方法，讓他們可以對權威質疑和影響權威。 我相信它有其他可能更重要的作用，科技的簡單，以我所見，可以融合政治的主觀和客觀，因為它真正幫助聽眾，公民們，透過別人的眼睛看到世界，它也幫助公民們對他人產生同理心。我認為那個想法應該是目的，應該是任何好的的新聞報導和好的實踐主義的目標，但最重要的，任何好的政治。 非常感謝。 這是我的榮幸。 （掌聲）
