Talk	en	zh-tw
bunker_roy	"I'd like to take you to another world. And I'd like to share a 45 year-old love story with the poor, living on less than one dollar a day. I went to a very elitist, snobbish, expensive education in India, and that almost destroyed me. I was all set to be a diplomat, teacher, doctor — all laid out. Then, I don't look it, but I was the Indian national squash champion for three years. (Laughter) The whole world was laid out for me. Everything was at my feet. I could do nothing wrong. And then I thought out of curiosity I'd like to go and live and work and just see what a village is like. So in 1965, I went to what was called the worst Bihar famine in India, and I saw starvation, death, people dying of hunger, for the first time. It changed my life. I came back home, told my mother, ""I'd like to live and work in a village."" Mother went into a coma. (Laughter) ""What is this? The whole world is laid out for you, the best jobs are laid out for you, and you want to go and work in a village? I mean, is there something wrong with you?"" I said, ""No, I've got the best eduction. It made me think. And I wanted to give something back in my own way."" ""What do you want to do in a village? No job, no money, no security, no prospect."" I said, ""I want to live and dig wells for five years."" ""Dig wells for five years? You went to the most expensive school and college in India, and you want to dig wells for five years?"" She didn't speak to me for a very long time, because she thought I'd let my family down. But then, I was exposed to the most extraordinary knowledge and skills that very poor people have, which are never brought into the mainstream — which is never identified, respected, applied on a large scale. And I thought I'd start a Barefoot College — college only for the poor. What the poor thought was important would be reflected in the college. I went to this village for the first time. Elders came to me and said, ""Are you running from the police?"" I said, ""No."" (Laughter) ""You failed in your exam?"" I said, ""No."" ""You didn't get a government job?"" I said, ""No."" ""What are you doing here? Why are you here? The education system in India makes you look at Paris and New Delhi and Zurich; what are you doing in this village? Is there something wrong with you you're not telling us?"" I said, ""No, I want to actually start a college only for the poor. What the poor thought was important would be reflected in the college."" So the elders gave me some very sound and profound advice. They said, ""Please, don't bring anyone with a degree and qualification into your college."" So it's the only college in India where, if you should have a Ph.D. or a Master's, you are disqualified to come. You have to be a cop-out or a wash-out or a dropout to come to our college. You have to work with your hands. You have to have a dignity of labor. You have to show that you have a skill that you can offer to the community and provide a service to the community. So we started the Barefoot College, and we redefined professionalism. Who is a professional? A professional is someone who has a combination of competence, confidence and belief. A water diviner is a professional. A traditional midwife is a professional. A traditional bone setter is a professional. These are professionals all over the world. You find them in any inaccessible village around the world. And we thought that these people should come into the mainstream and show that the knowledge and skills that they have is universal. It needs to be used, needs to be applied, needs to be shown to the world outside — that these knowledge and skills are relevant even today. So the college works following the lifestyle and workstyle of Mahatma Gandhi. You eat on the floor, you sleep on the floor, you work on the floor. There are no contracts, no written contracts. You can stay with me for 20 years, go tomorrow. And no one can get more than $100 a month. You come for the money, you don't come to Barefoot College. You come for the work and the challenge, you'll come to the Barefoot College. That is where we want you to try crazy ideas. Whatever idea you have, come and try it. It doesn't matter if you fail. Battered, bruised, you start again. It's the only college where the teacher is the learner and the learner is the teacher. And it's the only college where we don't give a certificate. You are certified by the community you serve. You don't need a paper to hang on the wall to show that you are an engineer. So when I said that, they said, ""Well show us what is possible. What are you doing? This is all mumbo-jumbo if you can't show it on the ground."" So we built the first Barefoot College in 1986. It was built by 12 Barefoot architects who can't read and write, built on $1.50 a sq. ft. 150 people lived there, worked there. They got the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2002. But then they suspected, they thought there was an architect behind it. I said, ""Yes, they made the blueprints, but the Barefoot architects actually constructed the college."" We are the only ones who actually returned the award for $50,000, because they didn't believe us, and we thought that they were actually casting aspersions on the Barefoot architects of Tilonia. I asked a forester — high-powered, paper-qualified expert — I said, ""What can you build in this place?"" He had one look at the soil and said, ""Forget it. No way. Not even worth it. No water, rocky soil."" I was in a bit of a spot. And I said, ""Okay, I'll go to the old man in village and say, 'What should I grow in this spot?'"" He looked quietly at me and said, ""You build this, you build this, you put this, and it'll work."" This is what it looks like today. Went to the roof, and all the women said, ""Clear out. The men should clear out because we don't want to share this technology with the men. This is waterproofing the roof."" (Laughter) It is a bit of jaggery, a bit of urens and a bit of other things I don't know. But it actually doesn't leak. Since 1986, it hasn't leaked. This technology, the women will not share with the men. (Laughter) It's the only college which is fully solar-electrified. All the power comes from the sun. 45 kilowatts of panels on the roof. And everything works off the sun for the next 25 years. So long as the sun shines, we'll have no problem with power. But the beauty is that is was installed by a priest, a Hindu priest, who's only done eight years of primary schooling — never been to school, never been to college. He knows more about solar than anyone I know anywhere in the world guaranteed. Food, if you come to the Barefoot College, is solar cooked. But the people who fabricated that solar cooker are women, illiterate women, who actually fabricate the most sophisticated solar cooker. It's a parabolic Scheffler solar cooker. Unfortunately, they're almost half German, they're so precise. (Laughter) You'll never find Indian women so precise. Absolutely to the last inch, they can make that cooker. And we have 60 meals twice a day of solar cooking. We have a dentist — she's a grandmother, illiterate, who's a dentist. She actually looks after the teeth of 7,000 children. Barefoot technology: this was 1986 — no engineer, no architect thought of it — but we are collecting rainwater from the roofs. Very little water is wasted. All the roofs are connected underground to a 400,000 liter tank, and no water is wasted. If we have four years of drought, we still have water on the campus, because we collect rainwater. 60 percent of children don't go to school, because they have to look after animals — sheep, goats — domestic chores. So we thought of starting a school at night for the children. Because the night schools of Tilonia, over 75,000 children have gone through these night schools. Because it's for the convenience of the child; it's not for the convenience of the teacher. And what do we teach in these schools? Democracy, citizenship, how you should measure your land, what you should do if you're arrested, what you should do if your animal is sick. This is what we teach in the night schools. But all the schools are solar-lit. Every five years we have an election. Between six to 14 year-old children participate in a democratic process, and they elect a prime minister. The prime minister is 12 years old. She looks after 20 goats in the morning, but she's prime minister in the evening. She has a cabinet, a minister of education, a minister for energy, a minister for health. And they actually monitor and supervise 150 schools for 7,000 children. She got the World's Children's Prize five years ago, and she went to Sweden. First time ever going out of her village. Never seen Sweden. Wasn't dazzled at all by what was happening. And the Queen of Sweden, who's there, turned to me and said, ""Can you ask this child where she got her confidence from? She's only 12 years old, and she's not dazzled by anything."" And the girl, who's on her left, turned to me and looked at the queen straight in the eye and said, ""Please tell her I'm the prime minister."" (Laughter) (Applause) Where the percentage of illiteracy is very high, we use puppetry. Puppets is the way we communicate. You have Jokhim Chacha who is 300 years old. He is my psychoanalyst. He is my teacher. He's my doctor. He's my lawyer. He's my donor. He actually raises money, solves my disputes. He solves my problems in the village. If there's tension in the village, if attendance at the schools goes down and there's a friction between the teacher and the parent, the puppet calls the teacher and the parent in front of the whole village and says, ""Shake hands. The attendance must not drop."" These puppets are made out of recycled World Bank reports. (Laughter) (Applause) So this decentralized, demystified approach of solar-electrifying villages, we've covered all over India from Ladakh up to Bhutan — all solar-electrified villages by people who have been trained. And we went to Ladakh, and we asked this woman — this, at minus 40, you have to come out of the roof, because there's no place, it was all snowed up on both sides — and we asked this woman, ""What was the benefit you had from solar electricity?"" And she thought for a minute and said, ""It's the first time I can see my husband's face in winter."" (Laughter) Went to Afghanistan. One lesson we learned in India was men are untrainable. (Laughter) Men are restless, men are ambitious, men are compulsively mobile, and they all want a certificate. (Laughter) All across the globe, you have this tendency of men wanting a certificate. Why? Because they want to leave the village and go to a city, looking for a job. So we came up with a great solution: train grandmothers. What's the best way of communicating in the world today? Television? No. Telegraph? No. Telephone? No. Tell a woman. (Laughter) (Applause) So we went to Afghanistan for the first time, and we picked three women and said, ""We want to take them to India."" They said, ""Impossible. They don't even go out of their rooms, and you want to take them to India."" I said, ""I'll make a concession. I'll take the husbands along as well."" So I took the husbands along. Of course, the women were much more intelligent than the men. In six months, how do we train these women? Sign language. You don't choose the written word. You don't choose the spoken word. You use sign language. And in six months they can become solar engineers. They go back and solar-electrify their own village. This woman went back and solar-electrified the first village, set up a workshop — the first village ever to be solar-electrified in Afghanistan [was] by the three women. This woman is an extraordinary grandmother. 55 years old, and she's solar-electrified 200 houses for me in Afghanistan. And they haven't collapsed. She actually went and spoke to an engineering department in Afghanistan and told the head of the department the difference between AC and DC. He didn't know. Those three women have trained 27 more women and solar-electrified 100 villages in Afghanistan. We went to Africa, and we did the same thing. All these women sitting at one table from eight, nine countries, all chatting to each other, not understanding a word, because they're all speaking a different language. But their body language is great. They're speaking to each other and actually becoming solar engineers. I went to Sierra Leone, and there was this minister driving down in the dead of night — comes across this village. Comes back, goes into the village, says, ""Well what's the story?"" They said, ""These two grandmothers ... "" ""Grandmothers?"" The minister couldn't believe what was happening. ""Where did they go?"" ""Went to India and back."" Went straight to the president. He said, ""Do you know there's a solar-electrified village in Sierra Leone?"" He said, ""No."" Half the cabinet went to see the grandmothers the next day. ""What's the story."" So he summoned me and said, ""Can you train me 150 grandmothers?"" I said, ""I can't, Mr. President. But they will. The grandmothers will."" So he built me the first Barefoot training center in Sierra Leone. And 150 grandmothers have been trained in Sierra Leone. Gambia: we went to select a grandmother in Gambia. Went to this village. I knew which woman I would like to take. The community got together and said, ""Take these two women."" I said, ""No, I want to take this woman."" They said, ""Why? She doesn't know the language. You don't know her."" I said, ""I like the body language. I like the way she speaks."" ""Difficult husband; not possible."" Called the husband, the husband came, swaggering, politician, mobile in his hand. ""Not possible."" ""Why not?"" ""The woman, look how beautiful she is."" I said, ""Yeah, she is very beautiful."" ""What happens if she runs off with an Indian man?"" That was his biggest fear. I said, ""She'll be happy. She'll ring you up on the mobile."" She went like a grandmother and came back like a tiger. She walked out of the plane and spoke to the whole press as if she was a veteran. She handled the national press, and she was a star. And when I went back six months later, I said, ""Where's your husband?"" ""Oh, somewhere. It doesn't matter."" (Laughter) Success story. (Laughter) (Applause) I'll just wind up by saying that I think you don't have to look for solutions outside. Look for solutions within. And listen to people. They have the solutions in front of you. They're all over the world. Don't even worry. Don't listen to the World Bank, listen to the people on the ground. They have all the solutions in the world. I'll end with a quotation by Mahatma Gandhi. ""First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, and then you win."" Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想帶你們到另一個世界.與你們分享一位年齡45歲和每天薪水不到一美元的窮人,之前的愛情故事.我所受的教育在印度是非常的優異, 勢力, 昂貴,它幾乎毀了我的人生.我可以選擇當一名外交官, 老師, 醫生這些全都為我準備好了.我不需要擔憂, 而我曾是印度國家壁球比賽連續三年的冠軍.笑聲整個世界似乎都是因我而存在.一切好像都在我腳下.我不會犯錯.然後我開始產生好奇我想去村莊工作, 生活體驗一下是什麼樣的感覺. 1965年,我來到了印度有史以來最大的比哈爾邦飢荒,我一次見到了因飢餓而死的人.我的生活因此而改變.我回到家後,告訴了我母親,""我要去鄉下工作, 在那裡生活.""她聽了後昏了过過去笑聲“你是什麼意思?你的人生已經定下來了, 最上層的工作你也可以得到,你現在告訴我你想到鄉下去工作?我想知道你是哪根經不對了嗎?""我告訴她: ”我沒問題, 我得到了最好的教育.我的經歷讓我反思.我在反思後決定用我的方式來報答社會.""""你去鄉下要做什麼?又沒工作, 又沒錢,不安全, 沒前景.""我說:""我想在那裡住挖五年的井.""“挖五年井?你一直都念的是全印度最貴的學校,現在要用五年時間來挖井?""後來很長一段時間她沒和我說話,因為她覺得我讓家人丟臉了. 在村裡，我見識了窮人最超出尋常的知識和技能，這些從來沒有主流媒體上出現過因為從來沒有被人注意過和尊重過，或是大規模的應用過.我決定創辦一所赤腳學院一所只有窮人才能念的學院.貧民們的重要想法將在此學院得到反映.我第一次來到了這個鄉村.老人們走到我身邊問:""你是通缉犯?""我说不是.笑声""考試沒過?""我说不是.没找到政府的工作? 我說不是那你来这里做什么?为什么來这里?印度的教育系統會讓你嚮往巴黎, 新德里, 蘇黎世那種地方;你來這個鄉村的目的到底是什麼?你是不是有事隱瞞?""我說:""沒有, 我其實是想創辦一所學院只教窮人的學院.貧民的想法可以在這個學院中變為現實."" 這些老人給了我很多建議.他們說:""請你不要讓有學位和證書的人進你的學校.""這所學家成為印度唯一一間不收有博士或是碩士學位的人.你必須要是一名逃學者, 考試不及格者, 或是輟學者才能念這所大學.你必須用雙手工作.不要因為勞動而有羞恥心.還要向社區證明你有他們需要的技能並對社區提供服務.我們開始赤腳學院的時,我們對職業精神重新定義. 怎樣才算是一名專家?專家是指那些不但有能力,還有信心和信仰的人.占卜水源位置的人是專家.傳統助產婆也是專家.傳統的擺放餐具者也是專家.專家遍佈世界各地.任何偏僻的鄉村裡都有他們的身影.我認為這些人應該加入主流社會證明他們的知識和技能是全球通用的.他們的技術和知識需要被應用,需要向外界的社會展示這些技能和知識在今天的社會中還可以得到發揮. 這所學院的文化是追隨聖雄甘地的生活和工作習慣.吃飯, 睡覺, 和工作都是在地上.沒有合同書, 從來不簽任何合同.你可以在這裡念20年, 或者明天就走.但沒有誰每月薪水可以超過100美金.你如果是想掙錢, 那你來錯地方了.如果你愛工作並且願意接受挑戰,赤腳學院歡迎你來.這裡是一個讓你創造和嘗試新想法的地方.不管是什麼樣的想法, 都可以來嘗試.失敗也沒關係.因為你可以重來.這是唯一一所讓老師當學生讓學生當老師的大學.同時也是唯一一所不發證書的大學.你的教育是留給社區來鑒定.你不需要掛張紙在牆上來證明你是名工程師. 當村民聽到我這些話時,他們說:""你還是用行動來展示你的計畫吧.如果你什麼都不做, 這些話一點意義都沒有.""1986年第一所赤腳學院建成了.12名建築師沒有一個認識字,以每平方英尺$1.5的成本修建了這所學院.150個人在那裡工作和居住.2002年時他們榮獲了阿迦汗建築獎.但評委有持疑, 他們認為有另外的建築師參與修建.我告訴他們:""的確有, 他們只畫設計圖,只有赤腳學院的建築師參與了修建.""我們是唯一將$50000獎金歸還的得獎者,因為他們不相信我們而且我們覺得他們的懷疑是對赤腳學院建築師的一種誹謗. 我問一位林務員一位有權威, 有證書的專家""你可以在這裡修建什麼?""他看了看泥土, 說:""算了吧. 不可能.根本不值得.沒水, 而且還都是岩石地.""我有點開始擔憂.我說:""好吧, 那我找村裡的長老問問.""讓他告訴我這裡可以種些什麼.他看了看我說,""你只需要建這個, 建這個, 放這個.""現今的狀況就是這樣. 你到屋頂上,所有的婦女都會對你說,""出去.男士不能上來因為我們不和他們分享這個技術.這是房頂是防水的.""笑聲建造屋頂的材料有棕櫚糖, 蕁麻其它的我不清楚.但它的確防水.1986到現在都沒漏過.這項技術, 婦女不會和男士分享. 笑聲 這是唯一一所完全使用太陽能的學校.能源來自太陽.45千瓦的房頂板.今後的25年有太陽就夠了.所以只要有陽光,我們就不怕沒能源.但其獨特之處是它的修建者是一位印度教的牧師,只有8年的教育從沒上過學, 沒念過大學.我敢保證他在太陽能方面的知識是世界第一. 赤腳學院的食物都是靠太陽能.而太陽能烹調器具的製造者是女性,不識字的女性,她們組裝了最先進的太陽能烹調器具.它是無需廚師的碗碟狀的器具.不幸地是, 它們幾乎有一半德國血統,所以非常精確.笑聲你不可能找到如此精確的印度女性.而器具的整個製作都是靠她們.我們每日兩餐飯, 一餐60份烹調完全是靠太陽能. 學校有一位牙醫她是一位阿嬤, 不識字, 但真的是牙醫.她的實際工作是幫7000名兒童檢查牙齒.赤腳科技:1986的時候, 沒有任何工程師和建築師可以想到我們會用房頂來採集雨水.只有少量水源流失.房頂是連在地下的一個有40萬升容量的水箱,所以沒有水會浪費.即使發生四年的乾旱, 我們學校也不會缺水,因我們收藏了雨水. 60%的小孩不會上學,因為要替家裡照顧山羊, 綿羊,還有其它的家庭雜務.我決定要為這些孩子建一間夜校.因為這些當地的夜校,超過7萬5千的小孩都得到了上學的機會.因為夜校考慮到孩子們的需求;而不是老師們的需求.這些學校教什麼呢?民主, 公民權力,應該怎麼去測量你的領土,被捕了應該怎麼辦,你的家畜病了怎麼辦.我們夜校教得就是這些知識.所有的學校還是借助太陽能. 每到5年,我們舉行一次選舉.在年紀6歲到14歲的兒童都可參與這個民主選舉,他們選一個總理.現在的總理只有12歲.她早上照看20隻羊,但晚上她的職務是總理.她有自己的內閣,教育部部長, 能源部部長, 衛生部部長.他們負責監督和管理150所學校的7000名學生.五年前這位總理拿到了世界兒童獎,她去了瑞典領獎.第一次離開她在的村.從沒見過瑞典.對當時的場面一點都不驚訝.瑞典皇后當時也在,她問我:""你能不能問問這個孩子她是哪來的自信?她才12歲,但完全不驚羨.""而這個站在她走邊的小女孩,轉向我, 直視皇后,她說:""告訴她我是總理."" 笑聲 掌聲 在文盲率太高的地方我們用木偶戲.木偶戲就成了我們的溝通方式.這個300歲的木偶叫喬金查查.他是我的心裡分析師. 我的老師.我的醫生. 我的律師.我的捐贈者.他幫助籌款,解決爭執.還幫助解決村裡的問題.如果村裡發生一些矛盾,如果來上課人數越來越少如果老師和家長方面有衝突,木偶會請老師和家長在全村面前, “握手.蹺課人數不能增加.""這些木偶用的是回收的世界銀行的報告紙. 笑聲 鼓掌 這個分散的, 簡單的借助太陽能為村裡提供電力的方法,已經在全印度傳開從拉達克到不丹所有使用太陽能電力的鄉村都是由受過培訓的人修建.我去了拉達克,問了一位當地的婦女在這裡，零下40度，你只能走到屋頂上因為沒有地方, 兩面都被雪給覆蓋了當我們問她:“用太陽能發電對你有什麼好處?""她思考了一下回答說:""這是我能第一次能在冬天看到我丈夫的面孔."" 笑聲 來到阿富汗.我們從印度明白了一件事男人是教不會的.笑聲他們不願意休息,雄心勃勃,易衝動,而且都想要證書.笑聲在世界各地, 你會發現所有人的男性都想要一張證書.為什麼? 因為他們想離開村裡到城市去找工作.我們想到了一個好辦法:訓練阿嬤們.如今世上最好的溝通方式是什麼?電視? 不是.電信? 不是.電話? 不是.是向女士傾訴. 笑聲 掌聲 我們第一次來到阿富汗,選了三位女士""我們想把她們帶到印度.""”不可能. 她們連自己的房間都不出,怎麼會跟你去印度.""我說:""我可以做一次妥協. 她們的丈夫可以一起來.""結果我把丈夫也帶走了.當然, 這些女士比男士更有智慧.在6個月之內,我們怎樣才能改變這些女士?手語.不用寫不用說只用比.在6個月後她們就成為了太陽能工程師.回到村裡用太陽能發電. 當這些女士回家後她們用太陽能為第一所村莊提供電力,開辦講習班阿富汗的第一個靠太陽能發電的村莊就是靠三位女士親手修建的.這位女士是個不同尋常的阿嬤.55歲了, 已為阿富汗的200座房屋提供了太陽能供電.而且沒有一座倒塌.這位阿嬤去了阿富汗的工程部演講並告訴系主任交流電和直流電的區別.那個部長對此不了解.那三位女士培訓了另外的27位女士而且為阿富汗的100座村提供了太陽能發電. 我們來到非洲,做了同樣的事.這些坐在桌前的婦女來自8－9個國家互相交談, 但說得都是不同的語言,因為聽不懂對方.但她們的肢體語言超讚.她們互相交談對話的過程中已漸漸成為太陽能工程師.我去了獅子山共和國,坐在首相的車裡夜晚穿過了這個村.回到村裡後, ""這裡發生了什麼事?""他們說:“這兩位阿嬤...""""阿嬤?"" 首相不敢相信這一切.她們去了哪裡? 去了印度後回國""首相找到總統問:""你知不知道我們國家有一個靠太陽能發電的村?""總統說:""不知道. ” 內閣一半的成員第二天都去拜訪了這些阿嬤.“怎麼辦到的?""總統傳喚了我, ”能不能幫我培訓150位阿嬤?""我說:""總統大人, 我不行.但這些阿嬤們做得到.”總統為我在獅子山共和國修建了第一所赤腳培訓中心.之後有150位阿嬤在獅子山共和國接受訓練. 在甘比亞:我們在甘比亞挑選了一位阿嬤.去了她在的村.我知道哪些女士我應該帶走.整個村裡的人都說:""把她們二人帶走吧.""我說:""不, 我想帶這位女士.""他們問:""為甚麼? 你和她無法溝通. 你又不認識她.""我回答:""我喜歡用比的, 也喜歡她說話的方式.""“她丈夫很龜毛.""把丈夫叫來了,大搖大擺, 像個政客, 手裡拿著手機.""""為什麼?"" ""看看我老婆多漂亮.""我說:""是, 她很漂亮沒錯.""丈夫說:""如果她跟個印度男人私奔的話怎麼辦?""這是他最大的擔憂.我說:""她會開心的. 每天都打電話給你.""她離開時像位阿嬤回來之後就像隻老虎.下了飛機像位老兵一樣接受記者們的採訪.她成功地應付了整個媒體,成為了一位明星.我6個月後回到了她的村, ""你丈夫不在嗎?""她說“應該在某個地方.我懶得管他.""笑聲典型的成功例子. 笑聲 鼓掌 最後, 我想說你不用到外面找解決的方法.在內部找找看.聽聽有解決方法的人的話.他們在世界各地都能找到.不用煩惱.不要相信世界銀行, 相信那些普通人.他們知道怎樣來解決任何問題. 最後我用聖雄甘地的一句話.""他們一開始忽視你,然後嘲笑你,然後和你鬥爭,最後的贏家是你."" 謝謝大家 掌聲"
