Talk	en	zh-tw
c_k_williams_reads_poetry_of_youth_and_age	"I thought I would read poems I have that relate to the subject of youth and age. I was sort of astonished to find out how many I have actually. The first one is dedicated to Spencer, and his grandmother, who was shocked by his work. My poem is called ""Dirt."" My grandmother is washing my mouth out with soap; half a long century gone and still she comes at me with that thick cruel yellow bar. All because of a word I said, not even said really, only repeated. But ""Open,"" she says, ""open up!"" her hand clawing at my head. I know now her life was hard; she lost three children as babies, then her husband died too, leaving young sons, and no money. She'd stand me in the sink to pee because there was never room in the toilet. But oh, her soap! Might its bitter burning have been what made me a poet? The street she lived on was unpaved, her flat, two cramped rooms and a fetid kitchen where she stalked and caught me. Dare I admit that after she did it I never really loved her again? She lived to a hundred, even then. All along it was the sadness, the squalor, but I never, until now loved her again. When that was published in a magazine I got an irate letter from my uncle. ""You have maligned a great woman."" It took some diplomacy. This is called ""The Dress."" It's a longer poem. In those days, those days which exist for me only as the most elusive memory now, when often the first sound you'd hear in the morning would be a storm of birdsong, then the soft clop of the hooves of the horse hauling a milk wagon down your block, and the last sound at night as likely as not would be your father pulling up in his car, having worked late again, always late, and going heavily down to the cellar, to the furnace, to shake out the ashes and damp the draft before he came upstairs to fall into bed — in those long-ago days, women, my mother, my friends' mothers, our neighbors, all the women I knew — wore, often much of the day, what were called housedresses, cheap, printed, pulpy, seemingly purposefully shapeless light cotton shifts that you wore over your nightgown and, when you had to go look for a child, hang wash on the line, or run down to the grocery store on the corner, under a coat, the twisted hem of the nightgown always lank and yellowed, dangling beneath. More than the curlers some of the women seemed constantly to have in their hair in preparation for some great event — a ball, one would think — that never came to pass; more than the way most women's faces not only were never made up during the day, but seemed scraped, bleached, and, with their plucked eyebrows, scarily masklike; more than all that it was those dresses that made women so unknowable and forbidding, adepts of enigmas to which men could have no access, and boys no conception. Only later would I see the dresses also as a proclamation: that in your dim kitchen, your laundry, your bleak concrete yard, what you revealed of yourself was a fabulation; your real sensual nature, veiled in those sexless vestments, was utterly your dominion. In those days, one hid much else as well: grown men didn't embrace one another, unless someone had died, and not always then; you shook hands or, at a ball game, thumped your friend's back and exchanged blows meant to be codes for affection; once out of childhood you'd never again know the shock of your father's whiskers on your cheek, not until mores at last had evolved, and you could hug another man, then hold on for a moment, then even kiss (your fathers bristles white and stiff now). What release finally, the embrace: though we were wary — it seemed so audacious — how much unspoken joy there was in that affirmation of equality and communion, no matter how much misunderstanding and pain had passed between you by then. We knew so little in those days, as little as now, I suppose about healing those hurts: even the women, in their best dresses, with beads and sequins sewn on the bodices, even in lipstick and mascara, their hair aflow, could only stand wringing their hands, begging for peace, while father and son, like thugs, like thieves, like Romans, simmered and hissed and hated, inflicting sorrows that endured, the worst anyway, through the kiss and embrace, bleeding from brother to brother, into the generations. In those days there was still countryside close to the city, farms, cornfields, cows; even not far from our building with its blurred brick and long shadowy hallway you could find tracts with hills and trees you could pretend were mountains and forests. Or you could go out by yourself even to a half-block-long empty lot, into the bushes: like a creature of leaves you'd lurk, crouched, crawling, simplified, savage, alone; already there was wanting to be simpler, wanting, when they called you, never to go back. (Applause) This is another longish one, about the old and the young. It actually happened right at the time we met. Part of the poem takes place in space we shared and time we shared. It's called ""The Neighbor."" Her five horrid, deformed little dogs who incessantly yap on the roof under my window. Her cats, God knows how many, who must piss on her rugs — her landing's a sickening reek. Her shadow once, fumbling the chain on her door, then the door slamming fearfully shut, only the barking and the music — jazz — filtering as it does, day and night into the hall. The time it was Chris Connor singing ""Lush Life"" — how it brought back my college sweetheart, my first real love, who — till I left her — played the same record. And head on my shoulder, hand on my thigh, sang sweetly along, of regrets and depletions she was too young for, as I was too young, later, to believe in her pain. It startled, then bored, then repelled me. My starting to fancy she'd ended up in this fire-trap in the Village, that my neighbor was her. My thinking we'd meet, recognize one another, become friends, that I'd accomplish a penance. My seeing her, it wasn't her, at the mailbox. Gray-yellow hair, army pants under a nightgown, her turning away, hiding her ravaged face in her hands, muttering an inappropriate ""Hi."" Sometimes there are frightening goings-on in the stairwell. A man shouting, ""Shut up!"" The dogs frantically snarling, claws scrabbling, then her — her voice hoarse, harsh, hollow, almost only a tone, incoherent, a note, a squawk, bone on metal, metal gone molten, calling them back, ""Come back darlings, come back dear ones. My sweet angels, come back."" Medea she was, next time I saw her. Sorceress, tranced, ecstatic, stock-still on the sidewalk ragged coat hanging agape, passersby flowing around her, her mouth torn suddenly open as though in a scream, silently though, as though only in her brain or breast had it erupted. A cry so pure, practiced, detached, it had no need of a voice, or could no longer bear one. These invisible links that allure, these transfigurations, even of anguish, that hold us. The girl, my old love, the last lost time I saw her when she came to find me at a party, her drunkenly stumbling, falling, sprawling, skirt hiked, eyes veined red, swollen with tears, her shame, her dishonor. My ignorant, arrogant coarseness, my secret pride, my turning away. Still life on a rooftop, dead trees in barrels, a bench broken, dogs, excrement, sky. What pathways through pain, what junctures of vulnerability, what crossings and counterings? Too many lives in our lives already, too many chances for sorrow, too many unaccounted-for pasts. ""Behold me,"" the god of frenzied, inexhaustible love says, rising in bloody splendor, ""Behold me."" Her making her way down the littered vestibule stairs, one agonized step at a time. My holding the door. Her crossing the fragmented tiles, faltering at the step to the street, droning, not looking at me, ""Can you help me?"" Taking my arm, leaning lightly against me. Her wavering step into the world. Her whispering, ""Thanks love."" Lightly, lightly against me. (Applause) I think I'll lighten up a little. (Laughter) Another, different kind of poem of youth and age. It's called ""Gas."" (Laughter) Wouldn't it be nice, I think, when the blue-haired lady in the doctor's waiting room bends over the magazine table and farts, just a little, and violently blushes. Wouldn't it be nice if intestinal gas came embodied in visible clouds, so she could see that her really quite inoffensive pop had only barely grazed my face before it drifted away. (Laughter) Besides, for this to have happened now is a nice coincidence. Because not an hour ago, while we were on our walk, my dog was startled by a backfire and jumped straight up like a horse bucking. And that brought back to me the stable I worked on weekends when I was 12, and a splendid piebald stallion, who whenever he was mounted would buck just like that, though more hugely of course, enormous, gleaming, resplendent. And the woman, her face abashedly buried in her ""Elle"" now, reminded me — I'd forgotten that not the least part of my awe consisted of the fact that with every jump he took the horse would powerfully fart. Phwap! Phwap! Phwap! Something never mentioned in the dozens of books about horses and their riders I devoured in those days. All that savage grandeur, the steely glinting hooves, the eruptions driven from the creature's mighty innards, breath stopped, heart stopped, nostrils madly flared, I didn't know if I wanted to break him, or be him. (Laughter) (Applause) This is called ""Thirst."" Many — most of my poems actually are urban poems. I happen to be reading a bunch that aren't. ""Thirst."" Here was my relation with the woman who lived all last autumn and winter, day and night, on a bench in the 103rd Street subway station, until finally one day she vanished. We regarded each other, scrutinized one another. Me shyly, obliquely, trying not to be furtive. She boldly, unblinkingly, even pugnaciously, wrathfully even, when her bottle was empty. I was frightened of her. I felt like a child. I was afraid some repressed part of myself would go out of control, and I'd be forever entrapped in the shocking seethe of her stench. Not excrement merely, not merely surface and orifice going unwashed, rediffusion of rum, there was will in it, and intention, power and purpose — a social, ethical rage and rebellion — despair too, though, grief, loss. Sometimes I'd think I should take her home with me, bathe her, comfort her, dress her. She wouldn't have wanted me to, I would think. Instead, I'd step into my train. How rich I would think, is the lexicon of our self-absolving. How enduring, our bland fatal assurance that reflection is righteousness being accomplished. The dance of our glances, the clash, pulling each other through our perceptual punctures, then holocaust, holocaust, host on host of ill, injured presences, squandered, consumed. Her vigil somewhere I know continues. Her occupancy, her absolute, faithful attendance. The dance of our glances, challenge, abdication, effacement, the perfume of our consternation. (Applause) This is a newer poem, a brand new poem. The title is ""This Happened."" A student, a young woman in a fourth-floor hallway of her lycee, perched on the ledge of an open window chatting with friends between classes; a teacher passes and chides her, ""Be careful, you might fall,"" almost banteringly chides her, ""You might fall,"" and the young woman, 18, a girl really, though she wouldn't think that, as brilliant as she is, first in her class, and ""Beautiful, too,"" she's often told, smiles back, and leans into the open window, which wouldn't even be open if it were winter — if it were winter someone would have closed it (""Close it!"") — leans into the window, farther, still smiling, farther and farther, though it takes less time than this, really an instant, and lets herself fall. Herself fall. A casual impulse, a fancy, never thought of until now, hardly thought of even now ... No, more than impulse or fancy, the girl knows what she's doing, the girl means something, the girl means to mean, because it occurs to her in that instant, that beautiful or not, bright yes or no, she's not who she is, she's not the person she is, and the reason, she suddenly knows, is that there's been so much premeditation where she is, so much plotting and planning, there's hardly a person where she is, or if there is, it's not her, or not wholly her, it's a self inhabited, lived in by her, and seemingly even as she thinks it she knows what's been missing: grace, not premeditation but grace, a kind of being in the world spontaneously, with grace. Weightfully upon me was the world. Weightfully this self which graced the world yet never wholly itself. Weightfully this self which weighed upon me, the release from which is what I desire and what I achieve. And the girl remembers, in this infinite instant already now so many times divided, the sadness she felt once, hardly knowing she felt it, to merely inhabit herself. Yes, the girl falls, absurd to fall, even the earth with its compulsion to take unto itself all that falls must know that falling is absurd, yet the girl falling isn't myself, or she is myself, but a self I took of my own volition unto myself. Forever. With grace. This happened. (Applause) I'll read just one more. I don't usually say that. I like to just end. But I'm afraid that Ricky will come out here and shake his fist at me. This is called ""Old Man,"" appropriately enough. ""Special: big tits,"" Says the advertisement for a soft-core magazine on our neighborhood newsstand. But forget her breasts. A lush, fresh-lipped blond, skin glowing gold, sprawls there, resplendent. 60 nearly, yet these hardly tangible, hardly better than harlots, can still stir me. Maybe a coming of age in the American sensual darkness, never seeing an unsmudged nipple, an uncensored vagina, has left me forever infected with an unquenchable lust of the eye. Always that erotic murmur, I'm hardly myself if I'm not in a state of incipient desire. God knows though, there are worse twists your obsessions can take. Last year in Israel, a young ultra-orthodox Rabbi guiding some teenage girls through the Shrine of the Shoah forbade them to look in one room. Because there were images in it he said were licentious. The display was a photo. Men and women stripped naked, some trying to cover their genitals, others too frightened to bother, lined up in snow waiting to be shot and thrown into a ditch. The girls, to my horror, averted their gaze. What carnal mistrust had their teacher taught them. Even that though. Another confession: Once in a book on pre-war Poland, a studio portrait, an absolute angel, an absolute angel with tormented, tormenting eyes. I kept finding myself at her page. That she died in the camps made her — I didn't dare wonder why — more present, more precious. Died in the camps, that too people — or Jews anyway — kept from their children back then. But it was like sex, you didn't have to be told. Sex and death, how close they can seem. So constantly conscious now of death moving towards me, sometimes I think I confound them. My wife's loveliness almost consumes me. My passion for her goes beyond reasonable bounds. When we make love, her holding me everywhere all around me, I'm there and not there. My mind teems, jumbles of faces, voices, impressions, I live my life over, as though I were drowning. Then I am drowning, in despair at having to leave her, this, everything, all, unbearable, awful. Still, to be able to die with no special contrition, not having been slaughtered, or enslaved. And not having to know history's next mad rage or regression, it might be a relief. No. Again, no. I don't mean that for a moment. What I mean is the world holds me so tightly — the good and the bad — my own follies and weakness that even this counterfeit Venus with her sham heat, and her bosom probably plumped with gel, so moves me my breath catches. Vamp. Siren. Seductress. How much more she reveals in her glare of ink than she knows. How she incarnates our desperate human need for regard, our passion to live in beauty, to be beauty, to be cherished by glances, if by no more, of something like love, or love. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我想要讀一些和這個主題相關的詩關於年輕與年老有些吃驚，我才發覺我寫了不少 第一首是獻給斯潘塞（Spencer），以及他的祖母，她被他的作品給嚇壞了。這首詩的題目是：灰塵 我的祖母正用肥皂刷我的嘴 半個世紀過去了 而今她仍到我面前 帶著那塊又厚又殘忍的黃肥皂 就因為我說的一個字 其實也不是說，只是重複 但是，「張嘴！」她說道：「張開嘴！」 她用手抓住我的頭 現在我知道她當時的生活艱苦 她失去了三個還在襁褓中的孩子 然後她丈夫也掛了 沒有錢，就留下幾個年幼的兒子。 她把着我在洗碗槽裡尿尿 因為廁所裡沒位置了 可是，噢！她的肥皂！ 大概就是這苦苦的灼燒讓我成了一名詩人？ 她住的那條街路面沒有鋪砌 她的公寓，兩間房間擁擠狹小，廚房惡臭四溢 她總在那裡盯著我，逮到我 我敢承認嗎？在她那麼對我之後 我再也不曾愛她了 她活到了一百歲 即便那時，都還是傷心，邋遢 但直到如今，我依然無法 再次愛她 這首詩刊登在雜誌上的時候我叔叔寄了封充滿憤怒的信給我。「你詆毀了一位偉大的女性。」我還得圓滑地應付一下 接著這首詩叫作「家居服」是一首長詩 那些日子裏 在那些僅為我而存在如今成了最為曖昧不明的記憶的日子裏 當清晨時分往往你最先聽到的是一陣鳥囀的轟鳴， 然後是輕柔的蹄踏聲馬兒拉著運送牛奶的四輪車來到你的街區 而晚間最後的聲響則多半 來自你正在停車的父親 又一次工作晚歸，總是如此 步伐沉重地往地窖，朝火爐走去 將爐灰抖落，闔上進氣口在他上樓倒向床鋪以前 那些遙遠的日子裏 女人，我的母親、朋友的母親們、旁鄰，所有我知道的女性 幾乎成天穿著被稱為家居服的洋裝 廉價、印花、質地欠佳像是刻意掩藏身形似地套在睡衣外的薄棉直筒連身裙 好讓妳在必須照顧孩子時換上晾衣時換上或在跑向街角雜貨店的時候 穿在大衣底下，睡袍的蜷曲鑲邊總是過長而泛黃的，垂擺著 簡直比某些女性為了某些重要場合 — 好比一場舞會而精心處理的髮捲 更蜷曲得多儘管這從未發生 那也比大多數女人不化妝時 顯得粗糙、慘澹的肌膚並且剃去眉毛的臉龐還更嚇人，更像面具； 真正可怕的是，正是這些家居服使女人變得如此平庸並且難以親近 以致於成為男人眼中不能傾心在男孩眼裡毫無遐想的女性 直到後來我才認識到那服裝也代表這樣的宣言 在妳微暗的廚房裏、衣服堆中在妳不蔽風雨的水泥後院 妳所發掘出的是屬於妳的美好國度 妳那真實的感受天性即使被毫無生氣的樣板服裝掩藏著依然全是妳轄下的領土 那些日子裏，我們同樣掩藏了另外一些事 成年之後男人不再擁抱彼此除了在某人死去的場合但也不總是如此。你們只是握手 或在一場球賽中用力地槌打朋友的背或是互賞兩拳以示彼此情誼深厚； 只是一旦遠離了童年你便不再記得父親的鬍渣磨過臉頰時內心激起的騷動 直到你的終於歷經了一些事又能再輕擁另一個男人，維持片刻 甚至吻頰(這時你父親的鬍渣已經硬而花白了) 最後是深深的擁抱儘管仍有些不自在──這舉動看來如此魯莽── 在這樣親密的情感交融中溢於言表的喜悅將有多少？ 自那時起你所經歷過的一切誤解和痛楚都無關緊要了 那些日子裏，我們幾近一無所知一如此刻，我猜想關於療愈傷痛的方式： 即使女人都穿上了她們最好的洋裝上身綴飾著珠子和亮片 甚至塗上口紅和睫毛膏，秀髮迎風飄揚，卻也只能痛心地緊握雙手一心乞求寧靜 因為那時的父親和孩子就像是無賴像是小偷、像古羅馬人那樣令人髮指、生怨、厭恨 強加她們以無比的哀愁透過那吻頰、擁抱 在兄弟間流淌流傳世代。 那些日子裏仍有鄰近城市的鄉間農莊、玉米田、牛群； 甚至離我們居住的地方不遠那兒有久未修葺的磚頭和有蔭的長廊 你得以發現大片的山丘與樹林你可以假裝自己發現了高山和森林 你也可以獨自外出甚至到半個街區外的一塊空曠處 鑽入矮叢裏──像一隻林裏的野獸隱密前進 蜷伏著、爬行著、原始、野蠻、而形隻影單； 有一股回歸原始的渴望，渴望著，當他們呼喚你， 也永遠不要回去。 (掌聲) 接下來也是一首長詩關於年長和還年輕的人這實際上發生在我和他相遇的那段時間這首詩的部份發生在我們曾共享的場所與時間裏 詩名是「鄰人」 她那五隻惹人厭，醜陋不堪的狗不斷地在我窗戶下方的屋頂狂吠 她的貓 — 天曉得有多少隻一定都尿在她的地毯上，她的樓梯平台散發出令人作嘔的晦氣 笨拙摸索著門鎖的影子因害怕而緊閉著的門 只有動物的聲音和爵士的調子如以往不停地飄入（我和她的）客廳 那時播的是Chris Connor所演唱的""Lush Life"" 令我深深思念起我大學時代的戀人 我初戀的摯愛，直到我離開她時 她都放著這首歌 頭枕著我的肩 手搭著我的腿 低聲唱和著，悔恨和逝去那是她太年輕所無法承擔， 而我太年輕所無法相信的，她的痛楚。 痛苦讓我驚愕，讓我煩悶，最後驅逐了我。 我開始幻想 她在這個小村中出現成為我的鄰居 我臆想著我們相遇，認出對方，成為朋友，而我也將完成贖罪。 我看著她，在郵箱旁的，不是她。 灰黃的頭髮，睡衣下穿著軍褲， 她轉過身，以手遮住滿是皺摺的臉，不自然地呢喃著：“ 嗨。“ 偶爾樓梯井裡會發生一些恐怖的事情。 男人吼道：“閉嘴！“ 狗則開始狂吠， 爪子瘋狂的撓，然後是她 — 她的聲音嘶啞的，低沉的，空洞的，僅是一聲 不連貫的，音符，怪叫撞在金屬上，金屬也因之熔化了， 叫著他們回來，“回來親愛的，回來親愛的。我心愛的天使們，回來。“ 再次見到她時，她化身爲美狄亞。 女巫般，恍惚地，欣喜若狂，呆立在人行道上 衣衫襤褸披掛，行人從她身旁流過， 她的嘴突然張大像要驚聲尖叫， 儘管未曾出聲，彷彿恐怖只在她腦中或胸中噴發。 純粹，熟練，而超然的吶喊，不需出聲，或已無法再出聲。 不可見的羈絆吸引著這些變遷，就算是痛苦也同樣聯繫著我們。 那個我從前深愛的女孩，最後一次見面 是在一場派對裡， 她過來找我，喝得爛醉如泥，腳步歪倒，衣衫不整，兩眼充血，紅腫的眼框裡，是淚，是愧，是悔。 出於無知，自大和粗野，我不爲人知的傲慢，我轉身離去。 屋頂上的靜物，桶中的枯樹，壞掉的長椅，狗，排泄物，天空。 什麼能帶領我穿越痛苦，什麼時刻是穿越脆弱的關頭，什麼會交會，什麼又會背道而馳？ 我們的生活中已經存在太多的生命，太多讓我們體驗痛苦的機會，太多下落不明的過去。 “看著我，“ 那狂暴的，無盡愛意之神，帶著一身鮮血淋漓的輝煌說：“看著我。“ 她一路向前去到髒亂的門廊階梯每一步都痛苦不堪。 我把著門。 她穿過破散的瓷磚，在走向街頭的方向支吾著， 低聲的說著，但沒有看著我，“能幫我一把嗎？“ 扶著我的手臂，輕輕地靠著我。她搖晃著腳步踏進這個世界。 她低聲呢喃著：“謝謝你，親愛的。“ 輕輕地，輕輕地，對著我。 （掌聲） 我想我應該讓氣氛愉悅一點（笑）另一首 很不同的有關年輕與老的詩 氣體 笑 這不是很棒嗎？我想， 當一位藍髮女郎正在候診室彎身向雜誌架時 放了屁，就一點點，變得滿臉通紅。 假如這腸道的氣體在空氣裡變成肉眼可見的話，那不是很棒嗎？ 如此一來她就會看見她那不甚擾人的爆裂只不過是輕輕掠過了我的臉龐 就在它飄散開去之前。 （笑） 此外，現在這個狀況正巧是一個美妙的巧合。因為就在不到一個小時之前，在我們散步途中， 我的狗被一輛車子的逆火聲所驚嚇得直跳了起來，活像匹馬拱背似的。 這也讓我想起了童年的馬廄我12歲的時候每逢週末就在那裡打工， 有匹花色種馬， 每逢上了鞍就會像那樣拱背蹦起，當然動作更劇烈，巨大，閃耀，且輝煌。 而那位困窘地把頭埋進《Elle》裡的女郎，則讓我想起了 — 我已然忘記的我最畏懼的事情就是那花馬每跳一下 都會用力的放屁 噗！噗！噗！ 這件事是在任何一本跟馬有關的書裡，或那些我熟知騎手們都不曾提到過的。 所有野蠻雄偉，發光的鐵蹄從那生物全能的內臟而來的能量爆發， 呼吸停止，心跳停止，鼻孔瘋狂噴氣， 我不知道我是想打斷他，還是成為他。 (笑聲) (鼓掌) 現在這首詩叫作「渴」我的許多──絕大多數的詩其實是城市詩。我現在要念一首則恰好不是 「渴」 接下來是我與一位去年秋冬不分日夜 都生活在地鐵103 街站一張長凳上的女性的關係，直到某天她消失為止。 我們互相打量，仔細審視對方。 我膽怯而拙劣地，想要顯得不那麼偷偷摸摸。 她則大膽，目不轉睛，甚挑釁好戰地，當她的酒瓶乾涸時，甚至是暴怒的。 我被她嚇壞了。覺得自己就像個小孩似的。 我害怕我那些被壓抑的部份會不受控制傾巢而出，而我將永遠 被禁錮在她那惡臭四溢的驚人水域中。 不僅是排泄物，不僅是表皮身上的毛孔也將變得不潔淨，蘭姆酒將 會填滿這些孔穴，還有意圖，力量，目的，一個社會，倫理的憤怒和反抗， 還有失望，悲痛，失落。 有時候我覺得應該帶她一起回家，讓她洗澡，安撫她，梳理打扮她。 我又覺得，她大概不會希望我那樣做。於是乎，我會踏進我等待的列車。 我心想，我們自我開脫的辭彙表是多麼的豐富啊！ 我們反映正義被確實執行的乏味而致命的保證，又是多麼持久。 我們的眼波流轉，交鋒，讓彼此經歷了感知的衝撞穿刺， 和隨之而來的大毀滅，巨大毀滅。寄居於眾多病源之上，殘破的存在，浪擲，揮霍。 我知道她仍在某處繼續著她的守夜儀式。 她盤據著，她會絕對忠實的出席。 我們的眼波流轉，質疑，退卻，消失，僅留下彼此驚愕的氣息。 (掌聲) 這是新作的一首詩。題目是「有過這樣的事」 一位年輕的女學生在學校的 4 樓的門廳， 棲息於洞開的窗台邊緣在下課時間跟朋友聊著天； 老師路過時告誡她，“當心！妳可能會摔下去，“用近乎戲謔的方式勸誡她， “妳可能會摔下去，“ 而那名女子，年方十八，還不過是個女孩， 一定未曾想過，如此聰慧，樣樣第一，而且常常有人說她“非常漂亮。“ 笑著回應老師，然後傾身向開著的窗，那扇在冬天本不應開啟的窗， 在冬天本應有人關上的窗（“關上它！“） 微笑著，更加傾身向窗外， 越來越傾斜，電光石火只不過是一瞬間，她跌出了窗外。 她跌了下去。 不經意的，一個念頭，從未被想起，也幾乎不可能被想到... 不，也不是一時的興起，那女孩明白她在做什麽， 那女孩在暗示著些什麽，那女孩是故意的， 由於想法在她腦中靈光乍現，漂亮與否，聰慧與否，那都不是她， 那都不是她自己， 而她突然明白了原因，就是她的所在之處有太多預設， 太多的籌備和規劃， 那裡幾乎沒有所謂的個人可言，即使有，那也不是她，或者說不是完整的她， 那個潛藏著，居住在她內心的自我， 看起來就像她所想的一樣她明白究竟遺失了什麼： 恩寵， 不是計劃，而是恩寵，一種自在處身於世界，的優雅特質。 重壓我肩頭的是這個世界 這個為世界增添光彩的自我多麼份量十足卻不是全然的自我。 重壓於我的自我世多麼份量十足，從中解脫正是我所渴望是我所追求。 於是女孩記起，在這被記憶一再分割無限的剎那間， 記起了曾經的痛那幾乎難以察覺的 埋藏在她心中的痛。 喏！女孩墜落，荒誕地墜落了， 儘管是讓她墜落的地球引力也知道這是荒誕的， 但那個落下的女孩不是我，就算她的確是我，也是我的自由意志選擇的自己。永遠，出於恩寵。 這樣的事發生了 (鼓掌) 我會再讀一首，我很少這麼說。我喜歡直接結束。但我怕Ricky會走上來向我揮拳 題目是「老人」，再貼切不過了 特別報導，巨乳。 色情雜誌的廣告上這麼寫著貼在我們社區的佈告欄上。 但先別提她的雙峰。 一個肉感，雙唇嬌豔欲滴的金髮尤物，小麥色的肌膚，玉體橫陳，簡直是光彩奪目。 都快60歲了，但這些無法實際碰觸到，不比娼婦高明到哪去的娘們，仍然攪得我心癢難耐。 或者一個美國感官黑暗年代就要來臨， 再也看不到沒打上馬賽克的乳頭，或未經分級審查刪除的陰道畫面， 讓我的眼睛染上了不可磨滅的淫欲。 情色的低喃總是 讓我幾乎不能自己設若我不是沈溺在一個原欲的狀態。 雖然說天曉得，癡迷會讓人陷得更深。 去年在以色列，一位年輕的超正統拉比帶領女學生們參觀大屠殺紀念館時 禁止她們參觀一個展廳。因為他說裡頭的照片太過放蕩。 展出的某張照片。男女都被剝到赤身露體， 有些人想遮蔽他們的生殖器，有些人則被嚇到忘了要這麼做， 在雪地裡站成一排等著被射殺後再丟進溝渠裡。 讓我覺得恐怖的是，女孩們紛紛把目光移開。 老師灌輸給她們的不信任肉慾的信念竟是如此深刻。 除此之外。還有另一個告解： 在一本戰前波蘭的書中 一座藝術塑像，一個絕美的天使，一個帶著痛苦眼神的絕美天使。 我注視了那圖良久。 她死於集中營 —雖然我不敢懷疑原因 — 讓她顯得更具存在感，更珍貴。 許多人 — 或者說猶太人 —也是在集中營死去並與他們的子女隔離。 而那就像是性，不消多說。 性和死亡，看起來多麼相似。 如此不斷蓄意逼近我的死亡，偶爾我覺得我將這兩者混淆了。 我妻子的愛幾乎蠶食了我。 我對她的感情遠遠高過於合理的境界。 每次做愛時，她抱住我纏繞著我的全身，我感覺如夢又如真。 我的腦中湧現無數的臉孔，聲音和記憶， 我就像溺水的人一般，眼前閃過自己一生的影像。 在不得不抽離她的時刻，我深深陷溺在絕望之中，這，一切，所有的一切，是如此難耐，讓人驚駭。 但仍能無有悔恨的死去，不是被屠殺，不是被奴役。 也不需要知道世上接著會發生什麼劇烈的風暴或衰退，死亡或者會是種解脫。 不是，再次重申，絕不是。我並沒有那種意思。 我是說這世界把我包得太緊 —好的，壞的 — 我的愚蠢和軟弱以致於這贋品的維納斯 與她虛偽的熱情，和她觸動我心弦那可能裝滿矽膠的雙峰 也讓我喘不過氣來。騷貨，妖女，蕩婦。 在她如墨的星眸裡展露了比她自己所知的還更多。 她是如何將具體體現了我們極度迫切的人性慾望， 渴望過更美好，變得更美麗，被注視且珍惜， 基於類似愛， 或愛本身的角度。 謝謝。 (掌聲)"
