Talk	en	zh-tw
caitria_and_morgan_o_neill_how_to_step_up_in_the_face_of_disaster	(Video) Newscaster: There's a large path of destruction here in town. ... pulling trees from the ground, shattering windows, taking the roofs off of homes ... Caitria O'Neill: That was me in front of our house in Monson, Massachusetts last June. After an EF3 tornado ripped straight through our town and took parts of our roof off, I decided to stay in Massachusetts, instead of pursuing the master's program I had moved my boxes home that afternoon for. Morgan O'Neill: So, on June 1, we weren't disaster experts, but on June 3, we started faking it. This experience changed our lives, and now we're trying to change the experience. CO: So, tornadoes don't happen in Massachusetts, and I was cleverly standing in the front yard when one came over the hill. After a lamppost flew by, my family and I sprinted into the basement. Trees were thrown against the house, the windows exploded. When we finally got out the back door, transformers were burning in the street. MO: I was here in Boston. I'm a PhD student at MIT, and I happen to study atmospheric science. Actually, it gets weirder — I was in the museum of science at the time the tornado hit, playing with the tornado display — (Laughter) so I missed her call. I get a call from Caitria, hear the news, and start tracking the radar online to call the family back when another supercell was forming in their area. I drove home late that night with batteries and ice. We live across the street from a historic church that had lost its very iconic steeple in the storm. It had become a community gathering place overnight. The town hall and the police department had also suffered direct hits, and so people wanting to help or needing information went to the church. CO: We walked to the church because we heard they had hot meals, but when we arrived, we found problems. There were a couple large, sweaty men with chainsaws standing in the center of the church, but nobody knew where to send them because no one knew the extent of the damage yet. As we watched, they became frustrated and left to go find somebody to help on their own. MO: So we started organizing. Why? It had to be done. We found Pastor Bob and offered to give the response some infrastructure. And then, armed with just two laptops and one air card, we built a recovery machine. (Applause) CO: That was a tornado, and everyone's heading to the church to drop things off and volunteer. MO: Everyone's donating clothing. We should inventory the donations piling up here. CO: And we need a hotline. Can you make a Google Voice number? MO: Sure. And we need to tell people what not to bring. I'll make a Facebook account. Can you print flyers? CO: Yeah, but we don't even know what houses are accepting help. We need to canvas and send out volunteers. MO: We need to tell people what not to bring. Hey, there's a news truck. I'll tell them. CO: You got my number off the news? We don't need more freezers! (Together) MO: Insurance won't cover it? CO: Juice boxes coming in an hour? Together: Someone get me Post-its! (Laughter) CO: And then the rest of the community figured out that we had answers. MO: I can donate three water heaters, but someone needs to come pick them up. CO: My car is in my living room! MO: My boyscout troop would like to rebuild 12 mailboxes. CO: My puppy is missing and insurance doesn't cover chimneys. MO: My church group of 50 would like housing and meals for a week while we repair properties. CO: You sent me to that place on Washington Street yesterday, and now I'm covered in poison ivy. (Laughter) So this is what filled our days. We had to learn how to answer questions quickly and to solve problems in a minute or less; otherwise, something more urgent would come up, and it wouldn't get done. MO: We didn't get our authority from the board of selectmen or the emergency management director or the United Way. We just started answering questions and making decisions because someone — anyone — had to. And why not me? I'm a campaign organizer. I'm good at Facebook. And there's two of me. (Laughter) CO: The point is, if there's a flood or a fire or a hurricane, you, or somebody like you, are going to step up and start organizing things. The other point is that it is hard. MO: Lying on the ground after another 17-hour day, Caitria and I would empty our pockets and try to place dozens of scraps of paper into context — all bits of information that had to be remembered and matched in order to help someone. After another day and a shower at the shelter, we realized it shouldn't be this hard. CO: In a country like ours where we breathe Wi-Fi, leveraging technology for a faster recovery should be a no-brainer. Systems like the ones that we were creating on the fly could exist ahead of time. And if some community member is in this organizing position in every area after every disaster, these tools should exist. MO: So, we decided to build them: a recovery in a box, something that could be deployed after every disaster by any local organizer. CO: I decided to stay in the country, give up the master's in Moscow and to work full-time to make this happen. In the course of the past year, we've become experts in the field of community-powered disaster recovery. And there are three main problems that we've observed with the way things work currently. MO: The tools. Large aid organizations are exceptional at bringing massive resources to bear after a disaster, but they often fulfill very specific missions, and then they leave. This leaves local residents to deal with the thousands of spontaneous volunteers, thousands of donations, and all with no training and no tools. So they use Post-its or Excel or Facebook. But none of these tools allow you to value high-priority information amidst all of the photos and well-wishes. CO: The timing. Disaster relief is essentially a backwards political campaign. In a political campaign, you start with no interest and no capacity to turn that into action. You build both gradually, until a moment of peak mobilization at the time of the election. In a disaster, however, you start with all of the interest and none of the capacity. And you've only got about seven days to capture 50 percent of all of the Web searches that will ever be made to help your area. Then some sporting event happens, and you've got only the resources that you've collected thus far to meet the next five years of recovery needs. This is the slide for Katrina. This is the curve for Joplin. And this is the curve for the Dallas tornadoes in April, where we deployed software. There's a gap here. Affected households have to wait for the insurance adjuster to visit before they can start accepting help on their properties. And you've only got about four days of interest in Dallas. MO: Data. Data is inherently unsexy, but it can jump-start an area's recovery. FEMA and the state will pay 85 percent of the cost of a federally-declared disaster, leaving the town to pay the last 15 percent of the bill. Now that expense can be huge, but if the town can mobilize X amount of volunteers for Y hours, the dollar value of that labor used goes toward the town's contribution. But who knows that? Now try to imagine the sinking feeling you get when you've just sent out 2,000 volunteers and you can't prove it. CO: These are three problems with a common solution. If we can get the right tools at the right time to the people who will inevitably step up and start putting their communities back together, we can create new standards in disaster recovery. MO: We needed canvasing tools, donations databasing, needs reporting, remote volunteer access, all in an easy-to-use website. CO: And we needed help. Alvin, our software engineer and co-founder, has built these tools. Chris and Bill have volunteered their time to use operations and partnerships. And we've been flying into disaster areas since this past January, setting up software, training residents and licensing the software to areas that are preparing for disasters. MO: One of our first launches was after the Dallas tornadoes this past April. We flew into a town that had a static, outdated website and a frenetic Facebook feed, trying to structure the response, and we launched our platform. All of the interest came in the first four days, but by the time they lost the news cycle, that's when the needs came in, yet they had this massive resource of what people were able to give and they've been able to meet the needs of their residents. CO: So it's working, but it could be better. Emergency preparedness is a big deal in disaster recovery because it makes towns safer and more resilient. Imagine if we could have these systems ready to go in a place before a disaster. So that's what we're working on. We're working on getting the software to places so people expect it, so people know how to use it and so it can be filled ahead of time with that micro-information that drives recovery. MO: It's not rocket science. These tools are obvious and people want them. In our hometown, we trained a half-dozen residents to run these Web tools on their own, because Caitria and I live here, in Boston. They took to it immediately, and now they are forces of nature. There are over three volunteer groups working almost every day, and have been since June 1 of last year, to make sure these residents get what they need and get back in their homes. They have hotlines and spreadsheets and data. CO: And that makes a difference. June 1 this year marked the one-year anniversary of the Monson tornado, and our community's never been more connected or more empowered. We've been able to see the same transformation in Texas and in Alabama. Because it doesn't take Harvard or MIT to fly in and fix problems after a disaster; it takes a local. No matter how good an aid organization is at what they do, they eventually have to go home. But if you give locals the tools, if you show them what they can do to recover, they become experts. (Applause) MO: All right. Let's go. (Applause)	新聞廣播員：（龍捲風）在這個鎮上沿路造成極大的損害樹連根拔起，吹破窗戶玻璃屋頂也被掀起 Caitria O'Neill: 那個就是我在去年六月時，站在我們麻州 Monson 的房子前面，藤田級數三級的龍捲風直接穿過我們住的鎮上把一部分的屋頂掀開我決定留在麻州放棄攻讀碩士那天下午，我把所有行李都搬回家 Morgan O'Neill: 因此，在6月1號時我們不是災難專家不過到了3號我們就這段經歷改變了我們的生活而現在我們在試圖去改變經歷 龍捲風通常不會在麻州出現我那時很聰明的站在前院而龍捲風正朝著山丘走來在一個路燈飛過之後，我和我的家人衝到地下室裡樹木全被吹向我們的房子，玻璃都炸開了當我們終於可以後門出去時路旁的變壓器都燒了起來 MO: 我當時在波士頓在麻省理工學院 (MIT) 唸博士正好是念大氣科學我的經歷更奇怪龍捲風經過時，我正在科學博物館玩龍捲風模擬展示所以我沒聽到她的來電等我接到了 Caitria 的電話，聽到新聞就開始在網路上追蹤雷達回波當我發現另外一個超級風暴胞正在附近形成時，便打電話告訴家人在當天深夜帶著電池和冰塊開車返家我們住在一個有富有歷史的教堂對面在這次風暴中，教堂失去了他們最具代表性的尖頂成為整個社區過夜的據點市政廳和警察局也受到直接衝擊所以想提供協助或者需要資訊的人都去了教堂 CO：我們聽說他們提供熱食，便往教堂走去不過當我們抵達時便發現一些問題有幾個強壯又滿身大汗的男人，手裏拿著電鋸站在教堂的中間不過沒人知道該把他們送去哪因為不知道損害的實際情形如何當我們看著時，他們便覺得沮喪而離開了自己去找需要幫助的人 MO: 我們便開始組織為什麼？總有人得出面吧。我們找到了 Bob 牧師然後提供了一些應變的基礎設施隨後我們帶著兩個手提電腦和一張無線網卡建造了一個恢復機器 (鼓掌) CO: 那是個龍捲風每個人都到教堂裡捐東西或當義工 MO: 每個人都在捐衣服我們得把這些堆積如山的捐贈品列個清單 CO: 沒錯，還需要一個熱線，你能不能弄個 Google Voice 的號碼來 MO: 沒問題，然後我們得告訴其他人哪些東西不用拿來我去弄個 Facebook 帳號，你可以把那些傳單都印出來嗎? CO: 嗯，可是我們連那些房子現在需要幫助都不知道我們需要作些調查並且派出義工 MO: 得告訴其他人哪些東西不用拿來看，那裡有輛新聞轉播車，我去告訴他們 CO: 你從新聞上看到我的號碼？我們不需要冷凍箱了 MO: 保險沒保這個？你需要一群人重鋪你家屋頂？ CO: 六箱果汁一小時就到?一起: 來人給我把便利貼拿來! (笑聲) CO: 然後其他的社區居民發現我們已經找到辦法了 MO: 我可以捐三個熱水器不過得有人過來拿 CO: 我車在我客廳呢 MO: 我的童子軍小隊想重建12個郵筒 CO: 有些小狗不見了，而且保險沒保到煙囪 MO: 我的教堂小組裡有五十人，需要一週的住所的食物就在我們進行修復時 CO: 你昨天把我送到 Waington 街上那個地方現在我被有毒常春藤蓋住了這些事情讓我們整天忙得團團轉得學會如何快速應對然後再一分鐘內解決問題不然其他更緊急的事情會冒出來這些問題就無法解決 MO: 我們的權限，不是從市政管理委員會緊急管理總監，或是聯合勸募來的我們只不過是開始回答問題和做出決定因為有人必須這麼做除了我還有誰呢？我是社運組織者我很熟悉 Facebook而且還有兩個我 (笑聲) CO: 我們想說的是，如果有洪水、大火、或者颶風你，或者像你一樣的人將會站出來然後開始組織一切但這也是很困難的一件事 MO: 在又工作17小時後，我們躺在地上Caitria 和我把口袋裡的東西都掏出來然後試著從一堆零碎的紙片拼出完整情境所有資訊都得記下並核對這樣才能幫助其他人在另一天過後，我們在避難所洗澡才意識到這應該沒那麼難 CO: 在一個無線網路像是空氣一樣的國家利用科技來增進快速復原應該很容易像我們這樣匆促組成的系統其實可以提早準備好如果任何社區居民在每次災難過後都在主導位置上應該要有這些工具 MO: 所以我們決定把它們建造出來—一個重建的工具箱一些在災難後可以讓當地主導者可利用的工具 CO: 我決定待在美國放棄在莫斯科的碩士學位然後全職工作來實現這一目標就在前一年的這個過程裡我們成為了社區式災難重建領域的專家依我們從觀察，目前的情況主要有三個問題， MO: 首先是工具。大型的救助組織都很擅長在災難後補給大量的資源不過通常他們完成特定任務以後就會離開了留下當地居民去處理眾多志工、大量的捐贈物資但當地居民未經訓練，也缺乏工具因此他們用即時貼、或者 Excel 或者 Facebook但沒有工具可以讓你區別出首要的資訊，並加以重視在當中全是照片和一些祝福 CO: 第二是時間的把握災難救助其實是一個反過來的政治競選的過程在一場政治選舉中，你從零開始，在毫無利益和能力的境況中付諸行動你逐漸地開始發展直到在選舉當中你這兩種能力帶到了最高點在一個災難當中呢，你開始是有各種利益但是沒有能力而你只有七天去獲取百分之五十的網絡搜索以拯救你那片區域然後一些體育事件發生了你只有你目前收集到的資源去完成五年後所需的重建工作這是一個 Katrina 的幻燈片這是 Joplin 的曲線這個是在四月我們部署軟體時候對於達拉斯颶風的一個曲線這有個缺口受災戶必須等著保險公司的理算員來之後他們的房產才能獲得幫助而且你在達拉斯只有4天的時間 MO: 最後一個是數據數據本來是沒什麼意思的不過對於一個區域的恢復可是很有效率FEMA (譯者注:Federal Emergency Management Agency 美國聯邦緊急事件管理局) 和州會對一個聯邦認證的災難付款百分之 85 的損失然後剩下 %15 就留給城鎮自己去支付開銷可以變得非常昂貴但如果這個城鎮可以召集 X 個志願者去服務 Y 個小時這批勞動力帶來的美元價值直接就到城鎮的貢獻中去不過誰知道呢?現在，想像一下當你送出去 2000 志願者但你無法證明的感覺是什麼樣 CO: 這三個問題都可以用一個方案來解決 (譯者總結: 工具、時間把握、數據)如果我們能在正確的時間內得到對的工具送到那些可以站出來然後重建社區的人們手中我們就可以在災難恢復中創造新的標準 MO: 我們需要監控工具，為捐贈品建立數據庫需要回報和遠程聯繫志願者所有都在一個簡單的網站當中 CO: 我們還需要幫助我們的軟件工程師和投資人 Alvin 已經造好了這些工具Chris 和 Bill 已經用他們志願的時間去運作和尋找合作夥伴而我們一直在拜訪那些有災難的地區建立軟件，訓練當地居民然後給軟體授權給各個地區，從而他們可以為救災做準備 MO: 其中第一個就是在這個四月 Dallas 的颶風之後我們到了一個有著過時網站和瘋狂 Facebook帳戶的城鎮於是我們建立了平臺所有的利益在前 4 天就來了但是當他們丟掉了新聞圈的時候，我們就有更多的需要但是他們有這一大批人們捐助的資源因此他們可以滿足人們的需要 CO: 因此運作的很好，不過可以更好一點對於緊急的準備是在災難恢復中很重要的因為它使得一個城鎮更安全和更有彈性想像一下在災難之前我們可以把所有這些系統都建立好因此這就我們在工作的東西我們想把這些軟體帶到人們那裡去，這些他們可以做出判斷，知道怎麼用可以被提前安置好就是一點點資訊就可以使得重建工作得以運轉 MO: 這不是什麼晦澀的火箭科學這些工具都是人們想要的在我們家鄉，我們訓練了 6 個居民去讓他們自己去使用網路工具因為 Caitria 和我在波士頓住他們都立即使用了這個現在他們是自發的團隊力量有三組志願者幾乎每天都工作自從去年的六月一日他們保證這些居民得到他們所需要並且順利回到家中他們有電話熱線、記錄單、和數據 CO: 這才起到了決定性的效果今年6月1日代表了 Monson 颶風的一週年而我們的社區從沒有這麼緊密連結、並且同時賦予力量過我們能夠看到同樣的改變在德州和亞拉巴馬州因為這不需要哈佛或者麻省理工學院在災難過後飛到那裡去處理問題只需要當地人們去弄不管一個救援組織多麼好他們最終還是得回家但是你如果把工具交給當地人民你展示給他們如果去恢復重建他們就成了專家 (鼓掌) MO: 好吧，那我們走吧。 (鼓掌)
