Talk	en	zh-tw
caleb_harper_this_computer_will_grow_your_food_in_the_future	"Food crisis. It's in the news every day. But what is it? Some places in the world it's too little food, maybe too much. Other places, GMO is saving the world. Maybe GMO is the problem? Too much agricultural runoff creating bad oceans, toxic oceans, attenuation of nutrition. They go on and on. And I find the current climate of this discussion incredibly disempowering. So how do we bring that to something that we understand? How is this apple food crisis? You've all eaten an apple in the last week, I'm sure. How old do you think it was from when it was picked? Two weeks? Two months? Eleven months — the average age of an apple in a grocery store in the United States. And I don't expect it to be much different in Europe or anywhere else in the world. We pick them, we put them in cold storage, we gas the cold storage — there's actually documented proof of workers trying to go into these environments to retrieve an apple, and dying, because the atmosphere that they slow down the process of the apple with is also toxic to humans. How is it that none of you knew this? Why didn't I know this? Ninety percent of the quality of that apple — all of the antioxidants — are gone by the time we get it. It's basically a little ball of sugar. How did we get so information poor and how can we do better? I think what's missing is a platform. I know platforms — I know computers, they put me on the Internet when I was young. I did very weird things — (Laughter) on this platform. But I met people, and I could express myself. How do you express yourself in food? If we had a platform, we might feel empowered to question: What if? For me, I questioned: What if climate was democratic? So, this is a map of climate in the world. The most productive areas in green, the least productive in red. They shift and they change, and Californian farmers now become Mexican farmers. China picks up land in Brazil to grow better food, and we're a slave to climate. What if each country had its own productive climate? What would that change about how we live? What would that change about quality of life and nutrition? The last generation's problem was, we need more food and we need it cheap. Welcome to your global farm. We built a huge analog farm. All these traces — these are cars, planes, trains and automobiles. It's a miracle that we feed seven billion people with just a few of us involved in the production of food. What if ... we built a digital farm? A digital world farm. What if you could take this apple, digitize it somehow, send it through particles in the air and reconstitute it on the other side? What if? Going through some of these quotes, you know, they inspire me to do what I do. First one: [""Japanese farming has no youth, no water, no land and no future.""] That's what I landed to the day that I went to Minamisanriku, one stop south of Fukushima, after the disaster. The kids have headed to Sendai and Tokyo, the land is contaminated, they already import 70 percent of their own food. But it's not unique to Japan. Two percent of the American population is involved in farming. What good answer comes from two percent of any population? As we go around the world, 50 percent of the African population is under 18. Eighty percent don't want to be farmers. Farming is hard. The life of a small-shareholder farmer is miserable. They go into the city. In India: farmers' families not being able to have basic access to utilities, more farmer suicides this year and the previous 10 before that. It's uncomfortable to talk about. Where are they going? Into the city. No young people, and everyone's headed in. So how do we build this platform that inspires the youth? Welcome to the new tractor. This is my combine. A number of years ago now, I went to Bed Bath and Beyond and Home Depot and I started hacking. And I built silly things and I made plants dance and I attached them to my computer and I killed them all — a lot. (Laughter) I eventually got them to survive. And I created one of the most intimate relationships I've ever had in my life, because I was learning the language of plants. I wanted to make it bigger. They said, ""Knock yourself out, kid! Here's an old electronics room that nobody wants. What can you do?"" With my team, we built a farm inside of the media lab, a place historically known not for anything about biology but everything about digital life. Inside of these 60 square feet, we produced enough food to feed about 300 people once a month — not a lot of food. And there's a lot of interesting technology in there. But the most interesting thing? Beautiful, white roots, deep, green colors and a monthly harvest. Is this a new cafeteria? Is this a new retail experience? Is this a new grocery store? I can tell you one thing for sure: this is the first time anybody in the media lab ripped the roots off of anything. (Laughter) We get our salad in bags; there's nothing wrong with that. But what happens when you have an image-based processing expert, a data scientist, a roboticist, ripping roots off and thinking, ""Huh. I know something about — I could make this happen, I want to try."" In that process we would bring the plants out and we would take some back to the lab, because if you grew it, you don't throw it away; it's kind of precious to you. I have this weird tongue now, because I'm afraid to let anybody eat anything until I've eaten it first, because I want it to be good. So I eat lettuce every day and I can tell the pH of a lettuce within .1. (Laughter) I'm like, ""No, that's 6.1 — no, no, you can't eat it today."" (Applause) This lettuce that day was hyper sweet. It was hyper sweet because the plant had been stressed and it created a chemical reaction in the plant to protect itself: ""I'm not going to die!"" And the plants not-going-to-die, taste sweet to me. Technologists falling backwards into plant physiology. So we thought other people needed to be able to try this. We want to see what people can create, so we conceived of a lab that could be shipped anywhere. And then we built it. So on the facade of the media lab is my lab, that has about 30 points of sensing per plant. If you know about the genome or genetics, this is the phenome, right? The phenomena. When you say, ""I like the strawberries from Mexico,"" you really like the strawberries from the climate that produced the expression that you like. So if you're coding climate — this much CO2, this much O2 creates a recipe — you're coding the expression of that plant, the nutrition of that plant, the size of that plant, the shape, the color, the texture. We need data, so we put a bunch of sensors in there to tell us what's going on. If you think of your houseplants, and you look at your houseplant and you're super sad, because you're like, ""Why are you dying? Won't you talk to me?"" (Laughter) Farmers develop the most beautiful fortune-telling eyes by the time they're in their late 60s and 70s. They can tell you when you see that plant dying that it's a nitrogen deficiency, a calcium deficiency or it needs more humidity. Those beautiful eyes are not being passed down. These are eyes in the cloud of a farmer. We trend those data points over time. We correlate those data points to individual plants. These are all the broccoli in my lab that day, by IP address. (Laughter) We have IP-addressable broccoli. (Applause) So if that's not weird enough, you can click one and you get a plant profile. And what this tells you is downloadable progress on that plant, but not like you'd think, it's not just when it's ready. When does it achieve the nutrition that I need? When does it achieve the taste that I desire? Is it getting too much water? Is it getting too much sun? Alerts. It can talk to me, it's conversant, we have a language. (Laughter) (Applause) I think of that as the first user on the plant Facebook, right? That's a plant profile and that plant will start making friends. (Laughter) And I mean it — it will make friends with other plants that use less nitrogen, more phosphorus, less potassium. We're going to learn about a complexity that we can only guess at now. And they may not friend us back — I don't know, they might friend us back, it depends on how we act. So this is my lab now. It's a little bit more systematized, my background is designing data centers in hospitals of all things, so I know a little bit about creating a controlled environment. And so — inside of this environment, we're experimenting with all kinds of things. This process, aeroponics, was developed by NASA for Mir Space Station for reducing the amount of water they send into space. What it really does is give the plant exactly what it wants: water, minerals and oxygen. Roots are not that complicated, so when you give them that, you get this amazing expression. It's like the plant has two hearts. And because it has two hearts, it grows four or five times faster. It's a perfect world. We've gone a long way into technology and seed for an adverse world and we're going to continue to do that, but we're going to have a new tool, too, which is perfect world. So we've grown all kinds of things. These tomatoes hadn't been in commercial production for 150 years. Do you know that we have rare and ancient seed banks? Banks of seed. It's amazing. They have germplasm alive and things that you've never eaten. I am the only person in this room that's eaten that kind of tomato. Problem is it was a sauce tomato and we don't know how to cook, so we ate a sauce tomato, which is not that great. But we've done things with protein — we've grown all kinds of things. We've grown humans — (Laughter) Well maybe you could, but we didn't. But what we realized is, the tool was too big, it was too expensive. I was starting to put them around the world and they were about 100,000 dollars. Finding somebody with 100 grand in their back pocket isn't easy, so we wanted to make a small one. This project was actually one of my student's — mechanical engineering undergraduate, Camille. So Camille and I and my team, we iterated all summer, how to make it cheaper, how to make it work better, how to make it so other people can make it. Then we dropped them off in schools, seventh through eleventh grade. And if you want to be humbled, try to teach a kid something. So I went into this school and I said, ""Set it to 65 percent humidity."" The seventh grader said, ""What's humidity?"" And I said, ""Oh, it's water in air."" He said, ""There's no water in air, you're an idiot."" (Laughter) And I was like, ""Alright, don't trust me. Actually — don't trust me, right? Set it to 100. He sets it to 100 and what happens? It starts to condense, make a fog and eventually drip. And he says, ""Oh. Humidity is rain. Why didn't you just tell me that?"" (Laughter) We've created an interface for this that's much like a game. They have a 3D environment, they can log into it anywhere in the world on their smartphone, on their tablet. They have different parts of the bots — the physical, the sensors. They select recipes that have been created by other kids anywhere in the world. They select and activate that recipe, they plant a seedling. While it's growing, they make changes. They're like, ""Why does a plant need CO2 anyway? Isn't CO2 bad? It kills people."" Crank up CO2, plant dies. Or crank down CO2, plant does very well. Harvest plant, and you've created a new digital recipe. It's an iterative design and development and exploration process. They can download, then, all of the data about that new plant that they developed or the new digital recipe and what did it do — was it better or was it worse? Imagine these as little cores of processing. We're going to learn so much. Here's one of the food computers, as we call them, in a school in three weeks' time. This is three weeks of growth. But more importantly, it was the first time that this kid ever thought he could be a farmer — or that he would want to be a farmer. So, we've open-sourced all of this. It's all online; go home, try to build your first food computer. It's going to be difficult — I'm just telling you. We're in the beginning, but it's all there. It's very important to me that this is easily accessible. We're going to keep making it more so. These are farmers, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, environmental engineer, computer scientist, plant scientist, economist, urban planners. On one platform, doing what they're good at. But we got a little too big. This is my new facility that I'm just starting. This warehouse could be anywhere. That's why I chose it. And inside of this warehouse we're going to build something kind of like this. These exist right now. Take a look at it. These exist, too. One grows greens, one grows Ebola vaccine. Pretty amazing that plants and this DARPA Grand Challenge winner is one of the reasons we're getting ahead of Ebola. The plants are producing the protein that's Ebola resistant. So pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, all they way down to lettuce. But these two things look nothing alike, and that's where I am with my field. Everything is different. We're in that weird ""We're alright"" stage and it's like, ""Here's my black box —"" ""No, buy mine."" ""No, no, no — I've got intellectual property that's totally valuable. Don't buy his, buy mine."" And the reality is, we're just at the beginning, in a time when society is shifting, too. When we ask for more, cheaper food, we're now asking for better, environmentally friendly food. And when you have McDonald's advertising what's in the Chicken McNugget, the most mysterious food item of all time — they are now basing their marketing plan on that — everything is changing. So into the world now. Personal food computers, food servers and food data centers run on the open phenome. Think open genome, but we're going to put little climate recipes, like Wikipedia, that you can pull down, actuate and grow. What does this look like in a world? You remember the world connected by strings? We start having beacons. We start sending information about food, rather than sending food. This is not just my fantasy, this is where we're already deploying. Food computers, food servers, soon-to-be food data centers, connecting people together to share information. The future of food is not about fighting over what's wrong with this. We know what's wrong with this. The future of food is about networking the next one billion farmers and empowering them with a platform to ask and answer the question, ""What if?"" Thank you. (Applause)"	食物危機。每天新聞都報導。但，它到底是甚麼？ 世界上有些地方食物短缺？有些地方產量過剩？有人說，基因改造食品可以拯救世界。但也有人說，基改食品有問題？大量的農業逕流造成海洋的破壞、海洋的毒害、土壤營養的流失。這些災難永無止盡，沒完沒了。我發現目前對氣候變化的討論，真的令人很沒力。所以，我們對食物危機到底了解多少呢？ 這個蘋果的食物危機又是如何呢？我確定，各位上禮拜都有吃蘋果。你認為蘋果從摘下後，會花多久的時間被買走？兩個禮拜？兩個月？答案是11個月—這是蘋果在美國食品雜貨店的平均存放時間。我不認為歐洲或世界上的其它國家會有多大的不同。我們摘下蔬果後，放進冷凍庫裡，灌冷媒到冷凍庫—已經有文件證明，工人進入這些環境取回蘋果時，常常不幸身亡。因為如果拿蘋果的過程太慢在冷凍庫中待太久，冷凍庫裡面的空氣會毒害人類。 為什麼你們沒有人知道這件事？為什麼我不知道這件事？90%的蘋果在我們購買之前，早就已經流失掉它所有的抗氧化劑（維生素C ）。基本上它只是一顆小糖球。我們怎麼都不知道這些資訊？要怎麼做才能改善？ 我認為原因是缺少平台。我知道平台—我懂電腦，我年輕的時候就會上網 在平台上搞一些有的沒的— （笑聲）我遇到其他人，我自己可以向他們解釋。 但你要如何闡述你自己對食物的看法？如果我們有一個平台，我們也許就覺得能夠可以直接問：如果這樣....會如何呢？對我而言，我會問：如果氣候到處都相同，會如何呢？這是一張全球的氣候地圖。最有產量的地方是綠色的，最沒產量的地方是紅色的。這些區域會移動、改變，現在加州的農夫變成墨西哥的農夫。中國挑選了巴西的土地來耕作更好的食物，而我們受氣候的控制。如果每個國家有自己的優良氣候條件來從事生產，會如何呢？對我們的生活會有甚麼變化呢？對我們的生活品質與養份會有甚麼變化呢？ 下一個世代的最大問題就是，我們需要更多並且便宜的食物。歡迎來到你的地球農田。我們建立了一個很大的模擬農田。上面這些線條痕跡—就是車輛、飛機、火車、自動車的運輸線。我們當中只有少數人參與食物的生產，卻養活了全世界70億人口，這根本是奇蹟啊 ! 如果...我們建造一個數位農田會如何呢？數位地球農田呢。要是如果你可以把這顆蘋果以某種方式數位化後，將它的資料傳送到雲端，然後在另一個地方重組起來，會怎麼樣呢？ 思考這些問題後，它們激勵了我去做我想做的事。 第一： 「日本農業沒有年輕人的朝氣、沒乾淨的水、土地，沒有未來。」 日本福島災害後，我飛往日本的南三陸町，它是位於福島再朝南方的一個地點。小孩子已經前往仙台與東京避難，因為土地已經受到汙染，他們有70％的食物需依賴進口。但不僅有日本是如此而已。美國人口的2%從事農業相關工作。對任何國家2%的人口而言，他們的正確答案是甚麼？當我們放眼全世界時，有50%的非洲人口是18歲以下。80%的人不想當農夫。種田太辛苦了。小股東農夫的生活真是苦不堪言。他們跑到城市找工作。在印度：農夫的家庭沒有能力購買基本的農耕工具，跟10年前比起來，今年有更多的農夫自殺。說到這些真的很令人難過。他們去哪了？去都市了。每個人都到都市去，這裡已經沒有年輕人。所以，我們要如何建立平台來留住年輕人？ 歡迎來到新的牽引器。這是我組裝的。幾年前，我到Bed Bath 、Beyond、Home Depot，開始投入這方面的工作。我做了一些沒用的東西，讓植物跳舞，把它們連結到電腦，還把它們全部毀掉—我還做過其他很多傻事。 （笑聲） 但我最後還是知道如何種植蔬果。我建立了我人生中一個最親密的關係，因為我在學習植物的語言。我想把這些種植發揚光大。他們說，「放手做吧，孩子！這裡有一間沒人要的電子工作室。你要怎麼做呢？ 我跟我的團體在多媒體實驗室，建立了一個農場，一個以前大家都知道，除了每樣東西都與數位生活有關，根本不會想到與生物學有關的地方。在這個不到兩坪的地方，我們每個月生產了足夠供300人吃的食物—不是很多的食物。但在那裏發生很多的科學趣事。但最有趣的事是什麼？就是漂亮白色的根、深綠色的蔬菜、以及每個月的收成。這是一家新的自助餐廳嗎？這是新的購物體驗嗎？還是新的雜貨店？有一點我可以確定的是：這是第一次，任何一位多媒體實驗室的人都可以來這裡拔走任何食物。 （笑聲） 我們自己把生菜裝進袋子；這不會有問題的。但要是你有一個圖像基礎的程序專家、一個數據科學家、一個機器人、可以幫你拔菜與思考，你會不會也會這樣想＂恩，我知道一些—我也可以做這件事，我想要試試＂。 在種植程序中，我們會把植物拿出來，我們會把一些放回實驗室，因為你要是種它，你就不會把它丟掉；因為它對你而言，就像寶貝一樣。我現在有一些怪癖，因為在我把食物給任何人之前，我都會先試吃，因為我要確定這食物是好的。所以，我每天都會吃生菜我可以分辨生菜裡面的PH值到0.1個單位的誤差... （笑聲） 我會說，＂不行，那個菜是6.1不行、不行，你今天不能吃它＂。 （掌聲） 這個生菜到那一天會超級甜。它會超級甜，因為植物會因為壓力的關係，建造出一種化學反應來保護它自己：「我不要死啊！」但菜不會死，而且嚐起來很甜。科學家退回到要投入研究植物的生理機能。 所以，我們想讓其他人也有能力也可以嘗試看看。我們想看看大家可以創造出甚麼，所以，我們構想出一個可以被運送到任何地方的實驗室。然後，我們建造了它。 所以，多媒體實驗室的正面是我的實驗室，每一個植物都有30個監測點。如果你了解基因組或遺傳學，這就是「基因體外的所有現象」研究，對吧？各種呈現的現象。例如，當你說，「我喜歡來自墨西哥的草莓，」你真的很喜歡當地氣候所呈現種植出來的草莓，所以，如果你把氣候的條件用電腦編碼—這會有點像是你在編食譜—這邊二氧化碳多一點，這邊氧氣多一點，這個植物的外表呈現、這個植物的內部養分、這個植物的大小、形狀、顏色、紋路．．．等等。我們需要數據。所以，我們在裡面放了很多感應器，來告訴我們裡面發生甚麼事。 如果你在想念你的室內植物，你會看著它，並超級傷心地說，＂為什麼你要死？為什麼不跟我說話？＂ （笑聲） 農夫在他們60到70歲時，會發展出相當精準的判斷眼光，他們可以告訴你，當你看到植物要死了，是因為養分不足，鈣不足，或它需要更多的濕氣。但這些精準的判斷眼光並沒有被流傳下來。 這些是雲端上的農夫眼睛。它們會持續追蹤這些數據。並根據不同的植物來變更這些數據點。這是那一天我實驗室裡花椰菜的IP 位址。 （笑聲） 我們有可以位址化的IP花椰菜。 （掌聲） 所以，如果這還不夠奇怪，你可以點選其中一個，就可以得到植物檔案。而這告訴你，這些植物的栽種過程是可以下載的，但它甚麼時候可以吃，會跟你想的不太一樣。它的養分甚麼時候可以達到我需要的狀況？它的口味甚麼時候可以達到我渴望的狀況？它是不是水分太多了？它是不是曬太多陽光了？都可以警示的。它可以和我們對話，它很精通我們的語言。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 我覺得這就像在植物臉書上的第一個使用者，對吧？這是植物的個人檔案，植物會開始自己找朋友。 （笑聲） 我是認真的—它會跟其它使用較少氮、更多磷較少鉀的植物做朋友。我們要開始學習目前只能用猜的那些複雜東西。也許它們不會想跟我們交朋友—我不知道，但也許會這取決於我們的行為。 這是我實驗室現在的樣子。它現在系統化多了，我的背景專長是在醫院設計數據中心之類的事，所以，我算有點知道如何創造一個可以控制的環境。 所以，在這環境裡面—我們正在做各式各樣的實驗。這是美國太空總署為Mir太空站研發的空氣種植法，目的是為了要降低他們要送到外太空的水總量。它的方法只是給予植物想要的：水、礦物質、氧氣。植物的根沒那麼複雜，你只要給它們這些，它們就會長的很漂亮。這有點像植物有2顆心臟。因為它有2顆心臟，它的成長速度會快五倍。這是完美的世界。我們的科技相當進步，並為這崩壞的世界預留了很多種子，而我們會持續這樣做，我們也有一個新工具，也是為了這完美的世界。 所以，我們種植各樣的東西。這些番茄已經150年沒在市場上出現過。你知道我們有稀有的和古老的種子銀行嗎？種子的銀行。太神奇了。他們有活的種質資源還有你從未吃過的東西。我是這裡唯一吃過這類番茄的人。問題是，它是一種調味番茄，而且我們也不知道怎麼料理它，所以，我們這個調味番茄吃起來美那麼美味。但我們可以調整蛋白質來種出各式各樣的植物。我們也可以種植人類— （笑聲） 也許你可以，但我們不行。 但我們明白，這工具太貴、太大了。我想把它們推廣到全世界，但這要10萬多美金。找到一個口袋裡有10萬美金的人並不容易，所以，我們想要做小一點的。 這個實際上這是我一位學生的研究專案—一位名叫Camille的機械工程大學生。Camille和我及我的團隊，我們整個夏天反覆進行改造，怎麼把它變得便宜，怎麼讓它可以運作地更好，怎麼把它變得讓每個人都可以做的到。我們把這個平台載去給有7到11年級學生的學校。如果你想變得謙卑，試著去教小朋友一些東西。 所以，我們到了學校，我說，「把它設定在65%的溼度。」 七年級生問說，「溼度是甚麼？」 我說，「喔，濕度就是空氣中的水。」 他說，「空氣中沒有水，你這笨蛋。」 （笑聲） 然後我說，「好，好，好，不要相信我」完全—不要相信我，好嗎？把濕度設定到100。他把濕度設定到100後，發生甚麼事？濕氣開始凝結，變成霧，然後開始滴水。 然後他說，「喔！濕度是雨啦！你為什麼不早點跟我講啦？」 （笑聲） 我們已經為這個開發一個程式介面，它有點像遊戲。它們有一個3D的環境，學生可以在世界任何一個地方用他們的智慧型手機、平板登錄進去。程式裡面有機械上不同的部件—物理條件、感應器。他們選擇了一個世界上其他小朋友已經做出來的植物食譜。他們選完後把它激活，種下了一個幼苗。當開始成長，它們就會開始變化。他們會問說，「為什麼植物一定需要二氧化碳？二氧化碳不是不好的嗎？二氧化碳不是有害的嗎？」調高二氧化碳的效率，植物會死掉。或是降低二氧化碳的效率，植物會活得很好。收割植物後，代表你創造了一個新的數位食譜。 這是一個互動、發展探索的過程。然後，他們可以下載所有新植物發展出來的數據，或者新的數據食譜，觀看它是如何成長的—有沒有更好，或更糟糕？想像一下這些是過程的核心。我們會學到很多。 這是其中一台食物電腦，我們在學校的三個禮拜這樣稱呼它。這是它在學校三個禮拜以來的成長過程。但更重要的是，這位小朋友從來沒想過他會是個農夫—否則他會想當個農夫。 所以，我們把這些資源全部開放。它們都在網路上，回家，嘗試去建造你的第一部食物電腦吧！我得告訴你，要組裝起來並不容易。我們雖然剛開始，但它都在網路上。對我而言，容易取得這些東西很重要。我們也會持續做的更多。 這些人是農夫，他們是電子工程師、機械工程師、環境工程師、電腦科學家、植物學家、經濟學家、都市規劃員。他們在同一平台貢獻出他們的專長。但我們搞的有點大。 這是我的新設備，我剛開始籌備。這個倉庫可以到處移動。這是我選擇它的原因。倉庫裡面，我們準備要蓋一些類似這樣的東西。它們現在就已經在倉庫裡面。看一下。這個也在倉庫裡面。一個種植綠色植物用，一個培養伊波拉病毒疫苗。相當驚訝這個植物與 DARPA 美國先進防衛計畫組織的挑戰贏家是其中一個我們研究伊波拉病毒的原因。這些植物正在生產對抗伊波拉病毒的蛋白質。所以藥品、營養品生產的方式都跟生菜生產方式很像似。 但這兩件事看起來完全不一樣，也是我專長的領域。每樣東西都不一樣。我們正處在一種「我們是對的」奇怪階段，這有點像，「這是我的黑盒子—」「不，買我的」「不、不、不—我的有人工智慧，簡直是物超所值。不要買他的，買我的。」 而真實情況是，我們只是剛開始，還要等社會大眾想法的改變。當我們開始要求更多、更便宜的食物，我們是在要求對環境友善、更好的食物。當你在看麥當勞的雞塊廣告時，永遠是最神秘的食物選項—他們現在都是用雞塊來做市場計畫—每件事都變了。 現在進入食物世界。個人食物電腦，食物伺服機，還有在開放式非增殖部的數據中心。想一下開放基因組，但我們的是微型氣候食譜，像是維基百科，你可以把它下載、啟動並開始耕作。 這會是怎樣的世界？你還記得用線連結的世界嗎？我們開啟了食物的明燈。我們開始寄送食物的訊息，而不是運送食物。我不是在幻想，我們已經在進行。食物電腦、食物伺服器、很快就可以成為食物數據中心，將人們連結起來分享資訊。 食物的未來，不是在爭論食物出了甚麼問題。我們知道食物哪裡出問題。食物的未來是有關於把未來的10億個農夫連結起來並給他們一個平台，授權他們找出那個問題的答案：＂如果這樣....會如何呢？＂ 謝謝各位！ （掌聲）
