Talk	en	zh-tw
cameron_herold_let_s_raise_kids_to_be_entrepreneurs	"I would be willing to bet that I'm the dumbest guy in the room because I couldn't get through school. I struggled with school. But what I knew at a very early age was that I loved money and I loved business and I loved this entrepreneurial thing, and I was raised to be an entrepreneur, and what I've been really passionate about ever since — and I've never spoken about this ever, until now — so this is the first time anyone's ever heard it, except my wife three days ago, because she said, ""What are you talking about?"" and I told her — is that I think we miss an opportunity to find these kids who have the entrepreneurial traits, and to groom them or show them that being an entrepreneur is actually a cool thing. It's not something that is a bad thing and is vilified, which is what happens in a lot of society. Kids, when we grow up, have dreams, and we have passions, and we have visions, and somehow we get those things crushed. We get told that we need to study harder or be more focused or get a tutor. My parents got me a tutor in French, and I still suck in French. Two years ago, I was the highest-rated lecturer at MIT's entrepreneurial master's program. And it was a speaking event in front of groups of entrepreneurs from around the world. When I was in grade two, I won a city-wide speaking competition, but nobody had ever said, ""Hey, this kid's a good speaker. He can't focus, but he loves walking around and getting people energized."" No one said, ""Get him a coach in speaking."" They said, get me a tutor in what I suck at. So as kids show these traits — and we need to start looking for them — I think we should be raising kids to be entrepreneurs instead of lawyers. Unfortunately the school system is grooming this world to say, ""Hey, let's be a lawyer or let's be a doctor,"" and we're missing that opportunity because no one ever says, ""Hey, be an entrepreneur."" Entrepreneurs are people — because we have a lot of them in this room — who have these ideas and these passions or see these needs in the world and we decide to stand up and do it. And we put everything on the line to make that stuff happen. We have the ability to get those groups of people around us that want to kind of build that dream with us, and I think if we could get kids to embrace the idea at a young age of being entrepreneurial, we could change everything in the world that is a problem today. Every problem that's out there, somebody has the idea for. And as a young kid, nobody can say it can't happen because you're too dumb to realize that you couldn't figure it out. I think we have an obligation as parents and a society to start teaching our kids to fish instead of giving them the fish — the old parable: ""If you give a man a fish, you feed him for a day. If you teach a man to fish, you feed him for a lifetime."" If we can teach our kids to become entrepreneurial — the ones that show those traits to be — like we teach the ones who have science gifts to go on in science, what if we saw the ones who had entrepreneurial traits and taught them to be entrepreneurs? We could actually have all these kids spreading businesses instead of waiting for government handouts. What we do is we sit and teach our kids all the things they shouldn't do: Don't hit; don't bite; don't swear. Right now we teach our kids to go after really good jobs, you know, and the school system teaches them to go after things like being a doctor and being a lawyer and being an accountant and a dentist and a teacher and a pilot. And the media says that it's really cool if we could go out and be a model or a singer or a sports hero like Luongo, Crosby. Our MBA programs do not teach kids to be entrepreneurs. The reason that I avoided an MBA program — other than the fact that I couldn't get into any because I had a 61 percent average out of high school and then 61 percent average at the only school in Canada that accepted me, Carlton — but our MBA programs don't teach kids to be entrepreneurs. They teach them to go work in corporations. So who's starting these companies? It's these random few people. Even in popular literature, the only book I've ever found — and this should be on all of your reading lists — the only book I've ever found that makes the entrepreneur into the hero is ""Atlas Shrugged."" Everything else in the world tends to look at entrepreneurs and say that we're bad people. I look at even my family. Both my grandfathers were entrepreneurs. My dad was an entrepreneur. Both my brother and sister and I, all three of us own companies as well. And we all decided to start these things because it's really the only place we fit. We didn't fit in the normal work. We couldn't work for somebody else because we're too stubborn and we have all these other traits. But kids could be entrepreneurs as well. I'm a big part of a couple organizations globally called the Entrepreneurs' Organization and the Young Presidents' Organization. I just came back from speaking in Barcelona at the YPO global conference, and everyone that I met over there who's an entrepreneur struggled with school. I have 18 out of the 19 signs of attention deficit disorder diagnosed. So this thing right here is freaking me out. (Laughter) It's probably why I'm a little bit panicked right now — other than all the caffeine that I've had and the sugar — but this is really creepy for an entrepreneur. Attention deficit disorder, bipolar disorder. Do you know that bipolar disorder is nicknamed the CEO disease? Ted Turner's got it. Steve Jobs has it. All three of the founders of Netscape had it. I could go on and on. Kids — you can see these signs in kids. And what we're doing is we're giving them Ritalin and saying, ""Don't be an entrepreneurial type. Fit into this other system and try to become a student."" Sorry, entrepreneurs aren't students. We fast-track. We figure out the game. I stole essays. I cheated on exams. I hired kids to do my accounting assignments in university for 13 consecutive assignments. But as an entrepreneur you don't do accounting, you hire accountants. So I just figured that out earlier. (Laughter) (Applause) At least I can admit I cheated in university; most of you won't. I'm also quoted — and I told the person who wrote the textbook — I'm now quoted in that exact same university textbook in every Canadian university and college studies. In managerial accounting, I'm chapter eight. I open up chapter eight talking about budgeting. And I told the author, after they did my interview, that I cheated in that same course. And she thought it was too funny to not include it anyway. But kids, you can see these signs in them. The definition of an entrepreneur is ""a person who organizes, operates and assumes the risk of a business venture."" That doesn't mean you have to go to an MBA program. It doesn't mean you have to get through school. It just means that those few things have to feel right in your gut. And we've heard those things about ""is it nurture or is it nature,"" right? Is it thing one or thing two? What is it? Well, I don't think it's either. I think it can be both. I was groomed as an entrepreneur. When I was growing up as a young kid, I had no choice, because I was taught at a very early, young age — when my dad realized I wasn't going to fit into everything else that was being taught to me in school — that he could teach me to figure out business at an early age. He groomed us, the three of us, to hate the thought of having a job and to love the fact of creating companies that we could employ other people. My first little business venture: I was seven years old, I was in Winnipeg, and I was lying in my bedroom with one of those long extension cords. And I was calling all the dry cleaners in Winnipeg to find out how much would the dry cleaners pay me for coat hangers. And my mom came into the room and she said, ""Where are you going to get the coat hangers to sell to the dry cleaners?"" And I said, ""Let's go and look in the basement."" And we went down to the basement. And I opened up this cupboard. And there was about a thousand coat hangers that I'd collected. Because, when I told her I was going out to play with the kids, I was going door to door in the neighborhood to collect coat hangers to put in the basement to sell. Because I saw her a few weeks before that — you could get paid. They used to pay you two cents per coat hanger. So I was just like, well there's all kinds of coat hangers. And so I'll just go get them. And I knew she wouldn't want me to go get them, so I just did it anyway. And I learned that you could actually negotiate with people. This one person offered me three cents and I got him up to three and a half. I even knew at a seven-year-old age that I could actually get a fractional percent of a cent, and people would pay that because it multiplied up. At seven years old I figured it out. I got three and a half cents for a thousand coat hangers. I sold license plate protectors door to door. My dad actually made me go find someone who would sell me these things at wholesale. And at nine years old, I walked around in the city of Sudbury selling license plate protectors door to door to houses. And I remember this one customer so vividly because I also did some other stuff with these clients. I sold newspapers. And he wouldn't buy a newspaper from me ever. But I was convinced I was going to get him to buy a license plate protector. And he's like, ""Well, we don't need one."" And I said, ""But you've got two cars ..."" — I'm nine years old. I'm like, ""But you have two cars and they don't have license plate protectors."" And he said, ""I know."" And I said, ""This car here's got one license plate that's all crumpled up."" And he said, ""Yes, that's my wife's car."" And I said, ""Why don't we just test one on the front of your wife's car and see if it lasts longer."" So I knew there were two cars with two license plates on each. If I couldn't sell all four, I could at least get one. I learned that at a young age. I did comic book arbitrage. When I was about 10 years old, I sold comic books out of our cottage on Georgian Bay. And I would go biking up to the end of the beach and buy all the comics from the poor kids. And then I would go back to the other end of the beach and sell them to the rich kids. But it was obvious to me, right? Buy low, sell high. You've got this demand over here that has money. Don't try to sell to the poor kids; they don't have cash. The rich people do. Go get some. So that's obvious, right. It's like a recession. So, there's a recession. There's still 13 trillion dollars circulating in the U.S. economy. Go get some of that. And I learned that at a young age. I also learned, don't reveal your source, because I got beat up after about four weeks of doing this because one of the rich kids found out where I was buying my comics from, and he didn't like the fact that he was paying a lot more. I was forced to get a paper route at 10 years old. I didn't really want a paper route, but at 10, my dad said, ""That's going to be your next business."" So not only would he get me one, but I had to get two, and then he wanted me to hire someone to deliver half the papers, which I did, and then I realized that collecting tips was where you made all the money. So I would collect the tips and get payment. So I would go and collect for all the papers. He could just deliver them. Because then I realized I could make the money. By this point, I was definitely not going to be an employee. (Laughter) My dad owned an automotive and industrial repair shop. He had all these old automotive parts lying around. They had this old brass and copper. I asked him what he did with it, and he said he just throws it out. I said, ""But wouldn't somebody pay you for that?"" And he goes, ""Maybe."" Remember at 10 years old — so 34 years ago I saw opportunity in this stuff. I saw there was money in garbage. And I was actually collecting it from all the automotive shops in the area on my bicycle. And then my dad would drive me on Saturdays to a scrap metal recycler where I got paid. And I thought that was kind of cool. Strangely enough, 30 years later, we're building 1-800-GOT-JUNK? and making money off that too. I built these little pincushions when I was 11 years old in Cubs, and we made these pin cushions for our moms for Mother's Day. And you made these pincushions out of wooden clothespins — when we used to hang clothes on clotheslines outside. And you'd make these chairs. And I had these little pillows that I would sew up. And you could stuff pins in them. Because people used to sew and they needed a pin cushion. But what I realized was that you had to have options. So I actually spray painted a whole bunch of them brown. And then when I went to the door, it wasn't, ""Do you want to buy one?"" It was, ""Which color would you like?"" Like I'm 10 years old; you're not going to say no to me, especially if you have two options — you have the brown one or the clear one. So I learned that lesson at a young age. I learned that manual labor really sucks. Right, like cutting lawns is brutal. But because I had to cut lawns all summer for all of our neighbors and get paid to do that, I realized that recurring revenue from one client is amazing. That if I land this client once, and every week I get paid by that person, that's way better than trying to sell one clothespin thing to one person. Because you can't sell them more. So I love that recurring revenue model I started to learn at a young age. Remember, I was being groomed to do this. I was not allowed to have jobs. I would caddy, I would go to the golf course and caddy for people. But I realized that there was this one hill on our golf course, the 13th hole that had this huge hill. And people could never get their bags up it. So I would sit there with a lawn chair and just carry up all the people who didn't have caddies. I would carry their golf bags up to the top, and they'd pay me a dollar. Meanwhile, my friends were working for five hours to haul some guy's bag around and get paid 10 bucks. I'm like, ""That's stupid because you have to work for five hours. That doesn't make any sense."" You just figure out a way to make more money faster. Every week, I would go to the corner store and buy all these pops. Then I would go up and deliver them to these 70-year-old women playing bridge. And they'd give me their orders for the following week. And then I'd just deliver pop and I'd just charge twice. And I had this captured market. You didn't need contracts. You just needed to have a supply and demand and this audience who bought into you. These women weren't going to go to anybody else because they liked me, and I kind of figured it out. I went and got golf balls from golf courses. But everybody else was looking in the bush and looking in the ditches for golf balls. I'm like, screw that. They're all in the pond and nobody's going into the pond. So I would go into the ponds and crawl around and pick them up with my toes. You just pick them up with both feet. You can't do it on stage. You get the golf balls, and you just throw them in your bathing suit trunks and when you're done you've got a couple hundred of them. But the problem is that people all didn't want all the golf balls. So I just packaged them. I'm like 12, right? I packaged them up three ways. I had the Pinnacles and DDHs and the really cool ones back then. Those sold for two dollars each. And then I had all the good ones that didn't look crappy. They were 50 cents each. And then I'd sell 50 at a time of all the crappy ones. And they could use those for practice balls. I sold sunglasses, when I was in school, to all the kids in high school. This is what really kind of gets everybody hating you is because you're trying to extract money from all your friends all the time. But it paid the bills. So I sold lots and lots of sunglasses. Then when the school shut me down — the school actually called me into the office and told me I couldn't do it — so I went to the gas stations and I sold lots of them to the gas stations and had the gas stations sell them to their customers. That was cool because then I had retail outlets. And I think I was 14. Then I paid my entire way through first year university at Carlton by selling wine skins door to door. You know that you can hold a 40-ounce bottle of rum and two bottles of coke in a wineskin? So what, right? Yeah, but you know what? You stuff that down your shorts, when you go into a football game you can get booze in for free, everybody bought them. Supply, demand, big opportunity. I also branded it, so I sold them for five times the normal cost. It had our university logo on it. You know we teach our kids and we buy them games, but why don't we get them games, if they're entrepreneurial kids, that kind of nurture the traits that you need to be entrepreneurs? Why don't you teach them not to waste money? I remember being told to walk out in the middle of a street in Banff, Alberta because I'd thrown a penny out in the street, and my dad said, ""Go pick it up."" He said, ""I work too damn hard for my money. I'm not going to see you ever waste a penny."" And I remember that lesson to this day. Allowances teach kids the wrong habits. Allowances, by nature, are teaching kids to think about a job. An entrepreneur doesn't expect a regular paycheck. Allowance is breeding kids at a young age to expect a regular paycheck. That's wrong, for me, if you want to raise entrepreneurs. What I do with my kids now — I've got two, nine and seven — is I teach them to walk around the house and the yard, looking for stuff that needs to get done. Come to me and tell me what it is. Or I'll come to them and say, ""Here's what I need done."" And then you know what we do? We negotiate. They go around looking for what it is. But then we negotiate on what they're going to get paid. And then they don't have a regular check, but they have more opportunities to find more stuff, and they learn the skill of negotiating, and they learn the skill of finding opportunities as well. You breed that kind of stuff. Each of my kids has two piggy banks. Fifty percent of all the money that they earn or get gifted, 50 percent goes in their house account, 50 percent goes in their toy account. Anything in their toy account they can spend on whatever they want. The 50 percent that goes in their house account, every six months, goes to the bank. They walk up with me. Every year all the money in the bank goes to their broker. Both my nine- and seven-year-olds have a stock broker already. But I'm teaching them to force that savings habit. It drives me crazy that 30-year-olds are saying, ""Maybe I'll start contributing to my RSP now."" Shit, you've missed 25 years. You can teach those habits to young kids when they don't even feel the pain yet. Don't read them bedtime stories every night. Maybe four nights out of the week read them bedtime stories and three nights of the week have them tell stories. Why don't you sit down with kids and give them four items, a red shirt, a blue tie, a kangaroo and a laptop, and have them tell a story about those four things? My kids do that all the time. It teaches them to sell; it teaches them creativity; it teaches them to think on their feet. Just do that kind of stuff and have fun with it. Get kids to stand up in front of groups and talk, even if it's just stand up in front of their friends and do plays and have speeches. Those are entrepreneurial traits that you want to be nurturing. Show the kids what bad customers or bad employees look like. Show them the grumpy employees. When you see grumpy customer service, point that out to them. Say, ""By the way, that guy's a crappy employee."" And say, ""These ones are good ones."" (Laughter) If you go into a restaurant and you have bad customer service, show them what bad customer service looks like. (Laughter) We have all these lessons in front of us, but we don't take those opportunities; we teach kids to go get a tutor. Imagine if you actually took all the kids' junk that's in the house right now, all the toys that they've outgrown two years ago and said, ""Why don't we start selling some of this on Craigslist and Kijiji?"" And they can actually sell it and learn how to find scammers when they get email offers come in. They can come into your account or a sub account or whatever. But teach them how to fix the price, guess the price, pull up the photos. Teach them how to do that kind of stuff and make money. Then the money they get, 50 percent goes in their house account, 50 percent goes in their toy account. My kids love this stuff. Some of the entrepreneurial traits that you've got to nurture in kids: attainment, tenacity, leadership, introspection, interdependence, values. All these traits you can find in young kids, and you can help nurture them. Look for that kind of stuff. There's two traits that I want you to also look out for that we don't kind of get out of their system. Don't medicate kids for attention deficit disorder unless it is really, really freaking bad. (Applause) The same with the whole things on mania and stress and depression, unless it is so clinically brutal, man. Bipolar disorder is nicknamed the CEO disease. When Steve Jurvetson and Jim Clark and Jim Barksdale have all got it, and they built Netscape — imagine if they were given Ritalin. We wouldn't have have that stuff, right? Al Gore really would have had to invented the Internet. (Laughter) These skills are the skills we should be teaching in the classroom as well as everything else. I'm not saying don't get kids to want to be lawyers. But how about getting entrepreneurship to be ranked right up there with the rest of them as well? Because there's huge opportunities in that. I want to close with a quick little video. It's a video that was done by one of the companies that I mentor. These guys, Grasshopper. It's about kids. It's about entrepreneurship. Hopefully this inspires you to take what you've heard from me and do something with it to change the world. [Kid ... ""And you thought you could do anything?""] [You still can.] [Because a lot of what we consider impossible ...] [... is easy to overcome] [Because in case you haven't noticed, we live in a place where] [One individual can make a difference] [Want proof?] [Just look at the people who built our country;] [Our parents, grandparents, our aunts, uncles ...] [They were immigrants, newcomers ready to make their mark] [Maybe they came with very little] [Or perhaps they didn't own anything except for ...] [... a single brilliant idea] [These people were thinkers, doers ...] [... innovators ...] [... until they came up with the name ...] [... entrepreneurs!] [They change the way we think about what is possible.] [They have a clear vision of how life can be better] [for all of us, even when times are tough.] [Right now, it's hard to see ...] [... when our view is cluttered with obstacles.] [But turbulence creates opportunities] [for success, achievement, and pushes us ...] [to discover new ways of doing things] [So what opportunities will you go after and why?] [If you're an entrepreneur] [you know that risk isn't the reward.] [No. The rewards are driving innovation ...] [... changing people's lives. Creating jobs.] [Fueling growth.] [And making a better world.] [Entrepreneurs are everywhere.] [They run small businesses that support our economy,] [design tools to help you ...] [... stay connected with friends, family and colleagues around the world.] [And they're finding new ways of helping to solve society's oldest problems.] [Do you know an entrepreneur?] [Entrepreneurs can be anyone ...] [Even ... you!] [So seize the opportunity to create the job you always wanted] [Help heal the economy] [Make a difference.] [Take your business to new heights.] [But most importantly,] [remember when you were a kid ...] [when everything was within you reach,] [and then say to yourself quietly, but with determination:] [""It still is.""] Thank you very much for having me."	"跟大家打賭，我是這裡最笨的人因為我沒能完成學業，學校讓我束手無策。但是我在年紀還很小的時候就瞭解到一件事那就是我愛錢，以及我愛做生意還有我愛這整個創業的玩意。我從小就被訓練成創業家。從那時起我就對一件事有著相當高的熱情直到現在，我從來沒有對人說過—所以這是第一次有人聽到這個，除了我太太以外，因為她在三天前問我 ”你要講什麼題目？“ 然後我跟她說了．這件事是 我覺得我們錯失了一個機會 -來找出這些小孩，具有創業家特質的小孩，然後訓練他們或是讓他們了解，做為一個創業家其實是一件很酷的事情．一個創業家並不是像很多社會認為的那樣，是一件不好或是會被別人輕視的事． 小時後，我們在長大的過程中都有夢想．我們也有自己的熱愛及憧憬．但是不知何故夢想常常被抹滅掉．大人們都教導我們說我們需要更認真讀書，或更專心或去找個家教．我的父母幫我找了一個法文家教但我到現在法文依然很破。兩年前我有幸成為麻省理工學院創業碩士班裡面，評價最高的講師。那是一個需要在來自世界各地的創業家面前演講的活動在二年級的時候，我贏得了一個城市級的演講比賽但是從來沒有人說過，“嘿，這個小孩子很會演講．他沒辦法靜下來，但是他喜歡四處走動，帶動大家”從來沒有人說過 ”我們幫他找一個演講的教練吧!“他們說，幫我找一個家教來教我不會做的事 所以小孩們會顯現這些特質．我們需要開始尋找具有這些特質的小孩們．我覺得我們應該要把小孩子養育成，創業家而不是律師．但不幸的是我們的教育體系，把大家觀念訓練成 －“嘿，當一個律師或當一個醫師吧！”我們錯失掉了一個機會，因為從來沒有人說過 ”嘿，我們來當創業家吧！“創業家是 － 而這個房間裡面有很多這類的人 －那些具有著這些想法，具有這些熱情，或是看到了世界的需求，然後決定站出來動手去做的人。我們會用盡方法來實現這些想法。我們也有能力可以吸引身邊的人加入我們，讓他們也想要和我們一起實現夢想。我想如果可以讓孩子們，在小時候就可以接受創業家的理念，我們可以解決世界上所有的問題．每一個問題，總會有人會想到解決的辦法。做為一個小孩，沒有做不到的的概念，因為你還沒有足夠的知識去判斷，什麼是可能的什麼是不可能的。 我認為我們做為家長和社會都負有一個責任 －要教會我們的孩子如何釣魚，而不是直接給他們魚。俗語說得好 “授人以魚不如授人以漁”．給一個人魚還不如教他如何釣魚．如果我們能夠教育孩子們成為創業家，那些具有創業家特質的孩子們 －就像我們培養具有科學天賦的孩子成為科學家一樣。如果我們發掘那些具有創業家天賦的孩子們，並且訓練他們成為創業家，世界會怎樣？這些小孩很可能會在忙著擴張他們的事業，而不是在家裡等待政府的救濟． 但是我們現在教導孩子們不要做這個，別做那個．別打人，別咬人，別罵人．現在我們教導小孩們要追求一份很好的工作，學校的教育告訴他們要成為，醫生或是律師，會計師或是牙醫，教師或是飛行員．媒體則灌輸他們成為一名模特兒或是歌手或是成為像Sidney Crosby(冰上曲棍球選手)那樣的運動明星，是一件很酷的事．我們的MBA教育並沒有教導孩子們如何成為創業家．我之所以不念MBA －除了我從未申請合格的事實之外，因為我高中平均成績只有61％，然後在加拿大唯一一間接受我入學的學校－Carlton，也是61％的平均成績另外一個原因是我們的MBA課程並不教導如何成為創業家．他們教導學生如何進入大公司工作． 那又是誰創立了這些公司呢？ 是那些很少數的人士．甚至在大眾文學中，我所能找到的唯一一本書 －你們都應該去看這本書 －我所能找到的唯一這本把創業家朔造成英雄人物的是 “阿特拉斯擺脫重負” (又譯 “阿特拉斯聳聳肩”)．其他人則帶著有色眼鏡看待創業家，他們說我們不是好人．我想到了我的家人 －我外公和爺爺都是創業家，我父親也是。我們三兄妹都各自開了自己的公司．我們都決定創立這些事業，因為只有這是最適合我們的．我們不適合做普通的工作，我們沒辦法在其他人底下工作因為我們太固執，而且我們也還有一些其他性格． 但是孩子們也可以成為創業家．我在兩個全球性組織裡面擔任重要的職位 －他們是創業家協會和青年總裁協會．我剛從巴賽隆納演講回來，在那裡參加了青年總裁協會的全球年會，我在那裡遇到的每個人只要是個企業家都對學業束手無策．注意力不足症候群的19種症狀中，我被診斷出18種．所以我面前的這些玩意讓我讓我不知所措．(笑聲)這很可能是我現在心亂的原因 －當然，也很可能是我今天喝下的咖啡因和糖分在作怪 －但這些東西會讓一個創業家覺得很恐怖．注意力不足症候群和狂躁抑鬱症(躁鬱症)．你知道躁鬱症被戲稱為CEO症候群嗎？Ted Turner 有它，Steve Jobs 也有它網景的三個創辦者也都有這個疾病．我還可以說出許多同樣的例子．小孩子 － 我們可以在小孩子身上看到這些徵兆．但是我們卻給他們利他能(治療過動症的藥物) 並說，“別成為創業家那樣子的人．適應另外一種系統然後成為一名學生吧！”很抱歉， 但創業家不是學生．我們抄捷徑，想辦法破解規範及規定．我抄別人的文章，我在考試裡面作弊．連續13次 － 我雇用其他的小孩，來幫我做會計學的功課．做為創業家，你不用自己記賬，你雇用會計師．我只是比較早領悟到這一點而已． (笑聲) )掌聲) 至少我敢承認我大學時作弊過，而你們大多數都不敢。我也被寫進了教科書裡面 － 我告訴了編寫教科書的人我在那堂課上作弊的事情 －我現在被寫進了那本教科書，那本被每一所加拿大的大專院校採用的教科書．管理會計學教科書裡面，第八章裡有講到我．第八章：預算的引子是我寫的．在他們完成了我的訪談之後，我告訴她我在那個科目中作弊過．她覺得我的故事太有趣了，她一定要把我寫進那本教科書． 但是你可以在孩子們身上看到這些徵兆．創業家的定義是 “組織並且營運一個商業活動，並承擔其所帶來的風險．""這並不代表你必須要去讀MBA．也不代表你一定要從學校畢業．這只代表著，只要你在心中能夠正確的判斷幾件事就夠了．我們也聽說過一個人的成長到底是天生的還是後天培養的，是前者還是後者？我覺得並不是兩個其中一個，我覺得兩者都有！我從小就被訓練成創業家． 在我還是個小孩子的時候，我並沒有太多選擇，因為當我還很小的時候，我父親就教我 －當他發現到我不能夠適應，那些在學校裡教導的東西 －他在我還很小的時候就教我如何做生意．他訓練了我們三個人，讓我們討厭在別人底下做事，讓我們憧憬著創建公司並且僱用其他人． 我第一次做生意是在七歲的時候，當時我在加拿大的溫尼伯當時我在臥室裡面躺著打電話．我打給了溫尼伯所有的乾洗店我想要知道他們願意付多少錢來跟我買晾衣架．然後我媽媽走進房間問了我，“你要到哪裡去生出這麼多衣架來賣給乾洗店呢？”我說，“我們到地下室去看看吧！”然後我們到地下室去，我打開了一個櫃子．裡面有大約一千個我收集的衣架．因為當我跟她說我要出去找其他小孩子玩的時候，我其實是到附近挨家挨戶的收集衣架，並且把它們放到地下室準備出售．因為幾個星期前，我看到她 －把衣架賣給別人，他們通常每個衣架給2分。所以我就...其實，到處是各式各樣的衣架．我只是走出家門去收集它們。我知道她不願意我去收集它們，但不管怎樣我還是去做了。我發現你其實可以和人們討價還價。一個人給我3分一個衣架，而我把價錢提高到3分半。我甚至在我7歲的時候就意識到，每賣一個衣架，我可以賺到幾分之一分錢．因為家裡舊衣架不斷堆積，人們會願意給錢讓我收集。在7歲時，我發現，每一千個衣架，我可以賺3分半。 我挨家挨戶地賣車牌保護框。我的爸爸更是讓我去批發市場，找那些願意賣這些東西給我的人。當我9歲時，我逛遍了Sudbury城，向那裡的人家挨家挨戶地賣車牌保護框。其中一名顧客我到現在還是記憶深刻，因為我還和這些人做其他的買賣。我賣報紙。而他從來都不會從我這裡買報紙。但是我相信我可以說服他去買我一個車牌保護盤。但他說：“我們不需要。”“但是你們有2部車...”－那時我9歲。我說：“你們有2部車，但是它們卻都沒有車牌保護框。”然後他說：“我知道。”然後我說：“這輛車有一個車牌保護框但是都變形了。”他說：“是的，那是我妻子的車。”然後我說：“那不如我們在你妻子的車前面試一試我的這個，來看一下它會不會更耐用一些。”於是我把2個車牌框各放了一個在那2部車上。即使我不能賣4個，我可以至少賣1個。我在這麼小的時候就知道這些東西了。 我也從漫畫書中獲利。當我10歲的時候，我在我們在Georgian Bay的小屋外賣漫畫書。然後我會踩單車去到沙灘的盡頭，從那些窮小孩那裡買漫畫書。然後我會重新回到沙灘的另外一邊，把書賣給有錢的小孩。很明顯，沒錯，低價買入，高價賣出。在這富人區，你會有市場的。不要嘗試賣書給窮小孩，他們沒有錢。但富小孩有，那就去賺他們一把。這很明顯，對吧。然後感覺經濟會不景氣。然後，金融風暴來了。但仍然有13萬億美元在美國經濟中流動。那就去賺它一筆，我在我小時候就意識到這一點了。我還知道，不要暴露你入貨地點。在賺了4個星期後，我被揍的慘兮兮因為一個富小孩發現了我買漫畫書的地方。而他不想給這麼多錢。 10歲那年，我又被迫去送報紙。我真的不想去送報紙。但10歲時，我爸說：“這會是你下一門生意。”所以儘管他讓我送1條街，但我決定去送2條然後，他讓我請一個人去送一半報紙。我照做了，然後我意識到那些小費是你收入的主要來源。所以我收工資也收小費。我去收集所有報紙訂戶的小費。而我請的人只是負責送報。因為不久，我意識到，我可以從中賺錢。可見，我絕對不會成為一名僱員。 (笑聲) 我的父親擁有一間汽車維修店。他有很多這些舊的汽車零件撒滿一地。這些大多是黃銅和銅。然後我問他他通常拿它們怎麼辦。他說他會扔掉它們。然後，我說：“但是會有人因為這個給你錢嗎？”然後他說：“可能吧。”記得那時10歲，所以是34年前了。我在這堆東西中發現了商機。我發現在這車庫中到處是金錢。我騎著單車從所有的汽車維修店中收集這些旧零件。然後我爸會在週六載我去金屬廢料回收站賣回收。我覺得這樣很酷。巧合的是，30年後，我們在製造1-800-GOT-JUNK。我們從那裡也賺錢了。 我11歲在童子軍的時候就在做這些針墊，我們把這些針墊在母親節送給我們的媽媽。我們用木製晾衣夾來做這些針墊，因為我們習慣把衣服晾在屋外的晾衣線上，另外，你要做這樣的椅子。而我有這些我縫製的小枕頭。你可以別一些小別針在它們身上。人們過去總會自己縫小枕頭，而他們會需要針墊。但我所知道的是，你可以有選擇。實際上，我可以把它們都噴成棕色。然後，當我上門推銷的時候，我不是說：“您想買一個嗎？”而是，“你想要哪種顏色呢？”因為我只有10歲，你一般不會拒絕我。特別是你可以有2種選擇；你可以要棕色的或者無色的。我在很小的時候就有這樣的經驗。 我還知道，人力並不值錢。對，就像剪草坪是殘忍的一樣。但是，正因為我要在一個夏天為我所有的鄰居剪草坪來賺錢，我意識到，從同一個人身上得到長期收入是件十分不错的事情。一旦我從這個客戶身上賺到錢，那麼接下來的每個星期那個人都會付我工資，這比每次都嘗試向不認識的人賣一個小枕頭要好。因為你不能向同一個人賣很多個枕頭。我很小的時候就知道我很喜歡和老客戶打交道。 還記得，我找工作前是要接受培訓的，因為我還不能找工作。後來，我去做球僮。我去高爾夫球場，並為人們當球僮。然後我發現，在高爾夫球場裡有個斜坡。在第13個球洞處就是一個陡的山坡。人們總是不能把他們的包帶上山。所以我坐在山下的一張凳子上，然後等那些沒有球僮的人來到山下。我會把他們的球袋帶到山頂，然後他們各付給我一美元。與此同時，我的朋友們要幫某個人拎5小時包，才能賺10美元。我說：“工作5小時是愚蠢的。因為這並不靠譜。”你應該找到一個賺錢又多又快的方法。 每個星期，我會去到街角的商店買所有的酒瓶蓋然後我會去到幾個70幾歲的玩橋牌的老奶奶家里，並把這些都賣給她們。然後她們會預定下星期的貨。然後我只是送酒瓶蓋並且收雙倍的價錢。我壟斷了這個市場，你不需要合同。你要的是需求和供給，還有向你買東西的那些人。这些老奶奶不會再向其他人買，因為她們喜歡我，這是我留意到的。 我去上高爾夫球場，並撿起一些高爾夫球。但是每個人都在灌木叢中和溝渠中找高爾夫球。我後來發現，那些高爾夫球，大多都掉在水裡了但是沒有人會走到水裡面。所以我走到水裡，爬來爬去，並用我的腳趾把球檢起來。你可以用兩只腳把它們檢起來的。我在台上不能演示。你拿到高爾夫球，然後你把它們放到你的泳褲裡直到你結束時，你會擁有幾百顆球。但問題是，人們不想要舊的高爾夫球。所以我把它們打包，12顆球一打。我有3種打包的方法。我用Pinnacles和DDHs，還有一些很酷的來包裝它們。那種的，我每打賣2美元。然後，我把那些看起來不錯的球，每顆賣50分。然後那些很差的球，賣50顆一包。這些可以用來做練習球。 我在學校的時候也會向高中的同學們賣太陽眼鏡。而這些會讓所有人都恨你因為你嘗試從你身邊所有的朋友身上賺錢。但我還是得生活的。於是我賣了很多很多太陽眼鏡。但學校不讓我做生意了 －實際上，學校叫我到辦公室，讓我停止銷售。所以，我跑到加油站，並且賣了加油站，許多太陽眼鏡然後讓加油站再轉售給它的顧客。這很酷，因為我有自己的零售商了．我想我那時是十四歲。 接下來呢，我挨家挨戶地賣酒袋，並且繳了大學第一年的學雜費。一個酒袋可以裝40盎司的朗姆酒和兩瓶可樂嗎？所以呢？你可以把酒袋塞在你短褲裡，當你去看橄欖球的時候，你就可以免費的喝酒了，大家都想要買酒袋。供給，需求，大商機。我還把它貼了商標，這樣我可以把它們用5倍的價格賣出去。商標是我們大學的標簽。 我們在教育我們的孩子時，我們會買幼教玩具。但是如果他們是將成為創業家的孩子，為甚麼我們不給他們玩那些能夠培養他們創業家特質的遊戲呢？為甚麼不教導他們別浪費錢呢？我記得我在Alberta的Banff被趕出街道，因為我把一分錢扔在街上，然後我爸爸說：“把它撿起來。”他說：“這是我辛辛苦苦掙來的錢，我不會讓你浪費任何一分錢。”時至今日，我還記得這個教訓。 零用錢讓孩子養成壞習慣。零花錢應教育孩子怎樣才能賺更多錢。創業家不會期望有一份常規的收入。零用錢讓孩子從小時候就只期待有份穩定的收入。對我來說，如果你想去培育創業家，給孩子零用錢是錯的。我有三個分別是2歲，9歲和7歲的小孩。現在，我讓我的小孩，在房子和前院四處查看，尋找一些需要完成的工作。然後回來告訴我有甚麼工作。或者我會跟他們說：“這是我需要完成的。”然後你猜接下來怎麼了？我們討價還價。他們閒逛去找有甚麼可以做的。然後我們就會談定工作的酬勞。這樣子他們不會有穩定的收入，反而有更多機會去尋找商機。同時，他們也學會了談判的技巧，也學會了尋找商機的技巧。 你要培養他們這些習慣。我的每個小孩都有2個小豬錢罐。掙來的或者別人給的錢的一半都會存到他們的家庭錢罐裡面，另一半存則存在他們買玩具的錢罐裡面。他們可以用玩具錢罐裡的錢去買任何東西。另一個家庭錢罐，每6個月，就會存進銀行。他們會跟我一起去。每年，銀行裡的錢都會交給他們的股票經紀人。我9歲和7歲的孩子都各有一個股票經紀人。但是我仍然要他們養成儲蓄的習慣。如果到了30歲才說：“或許現在我想開始把錢存進我的創業支持計劃裡面。”那麼，我會瘋掉的。慘了，你已經浪費了25年。你可以在孩子還沒有金錢觀念的時候就教他這些好習慣。 不要每天晚上給他們讀床邊故事。可以每個星期有四天晚上給他們講故事，剩下的三晚讓他們來講故事。嘗試一下，和孩子坐下來，並給他們4樣東西，一件紅襯衫，一條藍領帶，一隻袋鼠玩具和一台手提電腦，然後讓他們圍繞這4樣東西講一個故事。我的孩子經常做這個。這訓練他們賣東西的技巧，訓練他們的創造力。這訓練他們快速思考。試試看吧，你會有不同的感受。 讓孩子在眾人面前講話，儘管聽眾可能只是他們的朋友。讓他們表演話劇和進行演講。也會培養孩子要俱備的創業家特質。告訴孩子們甚麼是不合格的客戶，甚麼是不盡責的僱員。告訴他們脾氣暴躁的僱員是怎樣的。當你看到糟糕的客服態度，要向他們指出，說：“看，那人就是個很濫的僱員。”然後說：“這些就是盡心盡責的。”(笑聲)如果你走進一間餐廳，你受到了不好的服務，那麼告訴孩子們不稱心的服務是怎樣的。(笑聲)其實我們隨時隨地都可以學到新東西，但是我們沒有利用好那些機會，相反，我們給孩子請家庭教師。 想像一下，如果你把孩子所有在家裡的垃圾和兩年前就已經過時了的玩具都拿出來。然後說：“為甚麼我們不開始把這些東西在Craigslist和Kijiji上賣了呢？”他們就會開始賣它們，並學到怎樣分辨收到的e-mail訂單的真假。那些騙子會入侵你的賬戶或者子賬戶或者其它的甚麼東西。但是，要教他們怎樣定價，估價，怎樣放貨物的圖片。教他們諸如此類的東西並從中賺錢。然後他們得到的錢，一半存到的房子錢罐，另一半存到他們的玩具錢罐。我的小孩很喜歡這樣的方式。 有一些你要培養小孩的創業家特質，比如：成就，堅韌，領導力，自我反省，互助，價值觀這些特質你都可以在小孩子身上找到，然後你可以針對這些特質加以培養。尋找這些特質。還有兩種特質我希望你也去找一下的。我們其實並不了解他們的世界。不要認為他們是多動症，就讓他們吃藥，除非他們的情況真的是非常，非常嚴重。(掌聲)就好像我們對待躁狂症、緊張和抑鬱一樣，除非情況嚴重到要進醫院，我們一般也不會吃藥，對吧。躁鬱症，俗名叫CEO綜合症。因為Steve Jurvetson、Jim Clark和Jim Barksdale都得過這病，但是他們建立了Netscape.想像一下如果他們吃了Ritalin。我們就不會有那東西用，對吧？Al Gore就真的會成了發明網路的人了。 (笑聲) 這些技巧和其它一些要培養的特質都是我們應該在課堂上教授的。我不是說不要讓小孩成為律師。而是說怎樣讓創業家在人們心中，也能夠得到像其他職業一樣的水準。因為在這個領域有著大量的機會。 我像以一個很短的小視頻作為結尾。這個視頻是由我做顧問的其中一間公司製作的。這些傢伙，自稱“蚱蜢”。這是有關小孩子的，有關創業的。希望以下視頻會啓發你去接受我剛說的建議。並用它們去改變世界。孩子...“你想你可以做任何事？”你的確可以。因為很多我們認為事不可能的事情......其實很容易克服因為也許你沒有留意到，我們住在一個單個人就可以改變世界的地方證明？只要看一下那些管理我們國家的人，他們有可能是我們的爸爸媽媽，爺爺奶奶，阿姨，叔叔...它們以前是移民，準備要定居下來的新居民。或者他們來的時候沒甚麼資本，甚至或許他們根本是身無分文，除了......一個絕妙的想法。這些人是思想者，實幹者......改革者......直到他們突然想到一個名字......創業家！他們改變了我們對“可能”的想法。儘管當時的生活可能是艱難的，但他們清楚地知道該怎樣把我們所有人的生活變得更美好。現在，很難知道......甚麼時候我們的看法會被眼前的困難所擾亂。但是，混亂中蘊含成功的機會，並督促我們...去發現做事的新方法。那麼，你會抓住甚麼樣的機會，又為甚麼抓住這樣的機會呢？如果你是一個創業家，你知道所冒的危險不是回報。的確，回報是發動革新......來改變人們的生活，創造就業機會。加速經濟增長。並創造一個更美好的世界。我們四周都有創業家。他們經營小生意來支持我們的經濟，設計工具來讓你......和你世界各地的朋友、親人和同事保持聯繫。與此同時，他們正尋找新方法去解決社會上的老問題。你有認識的創業家嗎？創業家可以是任何人...甚至...是你！所以，抓住機會去創造一份你一直想要的工作。支持經濟。改變現狀。把你的事業建設到一個新的高度。但是，最重要的是，要記得當你還是小孩的時候...當所有你想要的東西你都可以得到的那個時候。並悄悄地，但堅定地對你自己說：“現在仍然是這樣。” 很高興你們能來聽我的演講。"
