Talk	en	zh-tw
cameron_sinclair_on_open_source_architecture	"I'm going to take you on a journey very quickly. To explain the wish, I'm going to have to take you somewhere where many people haven't been, and that's around the world. When I was about 24 years old, Kate Stohr and myself started an organization to get architects and designers involved in humanitarian work, not only about responding to natural disasters, but involved in systemic issues. We believe that where the resources and expertise are scarce, innovative, sustainable design can really make a difference in people's lives. So I started my life as an architect, or training as an architect, and I was always interested in socially responsible design, and how you can really make an impact. But when I went to architecture school, it seemed that I was a black sheep in the family. Many architects seemed to think that when you design, you design a jewel, and it's a jewel that you try and crave for; whereas I felt that when you design, you either improve or you create a detriment to the community in which you're designing. So you're not just doing a building for the residents or for the people who are going to use it, but for the community as a whole. And in 1999, we started by responding to the issue of the housing crisis for returning refugees in Kosovo. And I didn't know what I was doing — like I said, mid-20s — and I'm the Internet generation, so we started a website. We put a call out there, and to my surprise, in a couple of months, we had hundreds of entries from around the world. That led to a number of prototypes being built and really experimenting with some ideas. Two years later we started doing a project on developing mobile health clinics in sub-Saharan Africa, responding to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. That led to 550 entries from 53 countries. We also have designers from around the world that participate. And we had an exhibit of work that followed that. 2004 was the tipping point for us. We started responding to natural disasters and getting involved in Iran, in Bam, also following up on our work in Africa. Working within the United States — most people look at poverty and they see the face of a foreigner. But I live in Bozeman, Montana — go up to the north plains on the reservations, or go down to Alabama or Mississippi, pre-Katrina, and I could have shown you places that have far worse conditions than many developing countries that I've been to. So we got involved in and worked in inner cities and elsewhere; and also, I will go into some more projects. 2005: Mother Nature kicked our ass. I think we can pretty much assume that 2005 was a horrific year when it comes to natural disasters. And because of the Internet, and because of connections to blogs and so forth, within literally hours of the tsunami, we were already raising funds, getting involved, working with people on the ground. We run from a couple of laptops, and in the first couple of days, I had 4,000 emails from people needing help. So we began to get involved in projects there, and I'll talk about some others. And then of course, this year we've been responding to Katrina, as well as following up on our reconstruction work. So this is a brief overview. In 2004, I really couldn't manage the number of people who wanted to help, or the number of requests that I was getting. It was all coming into my laptop and cell phone. So we decided to embrace an open-source model of business — so that anyone, anywhere in the world, could start a local chapter, and they can get involved in local problems. Because I believe there is no such thing as Utopia. All problems are local. All solutions are local. So that means, you know, somebody who's based in Mississippi knows more about Mississippi than I do. So what happened is, we used Meetup and all these other Internet tools, and we ended up having 40 chapters starting up, thousands of architects in 104 countries. So the bullet point — sorry, I never do a suit, so I knew that I was going to take this off. OK, because I'm going to do it very quick. This isn't just about nonprofit. What it showed me is that there's a grassroots movement going on, of socially responsible designers who really believe that this world has got a lot smaller, and that we have the opportunity — not the responsibility, but the opportunity — to really get involved in making change. (Laughter) (Laughter) I'm adding that to my time. (Laughter) So what you don't know is, we've got these thousands of designers working around the world, connected basically by a website, and we have a staff of three. The fact that nobody told us we couldn't do it, we did it. And so there's something to be said about naïveté. So seven years later, we've developed so that we've got advocacy, instigation and implementation. We advocate for good design, not only through student workshops and lectures and public forums, op-eds; we have a book on humanitarian work; but also disaster mitigation and dealing with public policy. We can talk about FEMA, but that's another talk. Instigation, developing ideas with communities and NGOs, doing open-source design competitions. Referring, matchmaking with communities. And then implementing — actually going out there and doing the work, because when you invent, it's never a reality until it's built. So it's really important that if we're designing and trying to create change, we build that change. So here's a select number of projects. Kosovo. This is Kosovo in '99. We did an open design competition, like I said. It led to a whole variety of ideas. And this wasn't about emergency shelter, but transitional shelter that would last five to 10 years, that would be placed next to the land the resident lived in, and that they would rebuild their own home. This wasn't imposing an architecture on a community; this was giving them the tools and the space to allow them to rebuild and regrow the way they want to. We had from the sublime to the ridiculous, but they worked. This is an inflatable hemp house. It was built; it works. This is a shipping container. Built and works. And a whole variety of ideas that not only dealt with architectural building, but also the issues of governance, and the idea of creating communities through complex networks. So we've engaged not just designers, but also a whole variety of technology-based professionals. Using rubble from destroyed homes to create new homes. Using straw bale construction, creating heat walls. And then something remarkable happened in '99. We went to Africa originally to look at the housing issue. Within three days, we realized the problem was not housing; it was the growing pandemic of HIV/AIDS. And it wasn't doctors telling us this; it was actual villagers that we were staying with. And so we came up with the bright idea that instead of getting people to walk 10, 15 kilometers to see doctors, you get the doctors to the people. And we started engaging the medical community, and you know, we thought we were real bright sparks — ""We've come up with this great idea: mobile health clinics, widely distributed throughout sub-Saharan Africa."" And the medical community there said, ""We've said this for the last decade. We know this. We just don't know how to show this."" So in a way, we had taken pre-existing needs and shown solutions. And so again, we had a whole variety of ideas that came in. This one I personally love, because the idea is that architecture is not just about solutions, but about raising awareness. This is a kenaf clinic. You get seed and you grow it in a plot of land, and it grows 14 feet in a month. And on the fourth week, the doctors come and they mow out an area, put a tensile structure on the top, and when the doctors have finished treating and seeing patients and villagers, you cut down the clinic and you eat it. It's an eat-your-own-clinic. So it's dealing with the fact that if you have AIDS, you also need to have nutrition rates, and the idea of nutrition is as important as getting antiretrovirals out there. So you know, this is a serious solution. This one I love. The idea is it's not just a clinic, it's a community center. This looked at setting up trade routes and economic engines within the community, so it can be a self-sustaining project. Every one of these projects is sustainable. That's not because I'm a tree-hugging green person. It's because when you live on four dollars a day, you're living on survival and you have to be sustainable. You have to know where your energy is coming from, you have to know where your resource is coming from, and you have to keep the maintenance down. So this is about getting an economic engine, and then at night, it turns into a movie theater. So it's not an AIDS clinic. It's a community center. So you can see ideas. And these ideas developed into prototypes, and they were eventually built. And currently, as of this year, there are clinics rolling out in Nigeria and Kenya. From that, we also developed Siyathemba. The community came to us and said, ""The problem is that the girls don't have education."" And we're working in an area where young women between the ages of 16 and 24 have a 50 percent HIV/AIDS rate. And that's not because they're promiscuous, it's because there's no knowledge. And so we decided to look at the idea of sports, and create a youth sports center that doubled as an HIV/AIDS outreach center, and the coaches of the girls' team were also trained doctors. So that there would be a very slow way of developing confidence in health care. And we picked nine finalists, and then those nine finalists were distributed throughout the entire region, and then the community picked their design. They said, this is our design, because it's not only about engaging a community; it's about empowering a community, and about getting them to be a part of the rebuilding process. So, the winning design is here. And then, of course, we actually go and work with the community and the clients. So this is the designer. He's out there working with the first ever women's soccer team in KwaZulu-Natal, Siyathemba. And they can tell it better. (A cappella singing in a South African language) Video: Well, my name is Cee Cee Mkhonza. I work at the Africa Centre, I'm an IT user consultant. I'm also the national football player for South Africa, Banyana Banyana. And I also play in the Vodacom League, for the team called Tembisa, which has now changed to Siyathemba. This is our home ground. Cameron Sinclair: I'm going to show that later because I'm running out of time. I can see Chris looking at me slyly. This was a connection, just a meeting with somebody who wanted to develop Africa's first telemedicine center, in Tanzania. And we met, literally, a couple of months ago. We've already developed a design. The team is over there, working in partnership. This was a matchmaking, thanks to a couple of TEDsters — Sun [Microsystems], Cheryl Heller and Andrew Zolli, who connected me with this amazing African woman. And we start construction in June, and it will be opened by TEDGlobal. So when you come to TEDGlobal, you can check it out. But what we're known probably most for is dealing with disasters and development, and we've been involved in a lot of issues, such as the tsunami and also things like Hurricane Katrina. This is a 370-dollar shelter that can be easily assembled. This is a community-designed community center. And what that means is we actually live and work with the community, and they're part of the design process. The kids actually get involved in mapping out where the community center should be. And then eventually, the community, through skills training, end up building the building with us. Here is another school. This is what the UN gave these guys for six months — 12 plastic tarps. This was in August. This was the replacement; that's supposed to last for two years. When the rain comes down, you can't hear a thing, and in the summer, it's about 140 degrees inside. So we said, if the rain's coming down, let's get fresh water. So every one of our schools has a rainwater collection system. Very low cost: three classrooms and rainwater collection is 5,000 dollars. This was raised by hot chocolate sales in Atlanta. It's built by the parents of the kids. The kids are out there on-site, building the buildings. And it opened a couple of weeks ago, and there's 600 kids that are now using the schools. (Applause) So, disaster hits home. We see the bad stories on CNN and Fox and all that, but we don't see the good stories. Here is a community that got together, and they said ""no"" to waiting. They formed a partnership, a diverse partnership of players, to actually map out East Biloxi, to figure out who's getting involved. We've had over 1,500 volunteers rebuilding, rehabbing homes. Figuring out what FEMA regulations are, not waiting for them to dictate to us how you should rebuild. Working with residents, getting them out of their homes, so they don't get ill. This is what they're cleaning up on their own. Designing housing. This house is going in in a couple of weeks. This is a rehabbed home, done in four days. This is a utility room for a woman who is on a walker. She's 70 years old. This is what FEMA gave her. 600 bucks, happened two days ago. We put together, very quickly, a washroom. It's built, it's running and she just started a business today, where she's washing other people's clothes. These are the Calhouns. They're photographers who had documented the Lower Ninth for the last 40 years. That was their home, and these are the photographs they took. And we're helping, working with them to create a new building. Projects we've done. Projects we've been a part of, support. Why don't aid agencies do this? This is the UN tent. This is the new UN tent, just introduced this year. Quick to assemble. It's got a flap — that's the invention. It took 20 years to design this and get it implemented in the field. I was 12 years old. There's a problem here. Luckily, we're not alone. There are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of architects and designers and inventors around the world that are getting involved in humanitarian work. More hemp houses — it's a theme in Japan, apparently. I'm not sure what they're smoking. (Laughter) This is a Grip Clip, designed by somebody who said, ""All you need is some way to attach membrane structures to physical support beams."" This guy designed for NASA, is now doing housing. I'm going to whip through this quickly, because I know I've got only a couple of minutes. So this is all done in the last two years. I showed you something that took 20 years to do. And this is just a selection of things that were built in the last couple of years. From Brazil to India, Mexico, Alabama, China, Israel, Palestine, Vietnam. The average age of a designer who gets involved in this project is 32 — that's how old I am. So it's a young — I just have to stop here, because Arup is in the room, and this is the best-designed toilet in the world. If you're ever, ever in India, go use this toilet. (Laughter) Chris Luebkeman will tell you why. I'm sure that's how he wanted to spend the party. But the future is not going to be the sky-scraping cities of New York, but this. And when you look at this, you see crisis. What I see is many, many inventors. One billion people live in abject poverty. We hear about them all the time. Four billion live in growing but fragile economies. One in seven live in unplanned settlements. If we do nothing about the housing crisis that's about to happen, in 20 years, one in three people will live in an unplanned settlement or a refugee camp. Look left, look right: one of you will be there. How do we improve the living standards of five billion people? With 10 million solutions. So I wish to develop a community that actively embraces innovative and sustainable design to improve the living conditions for everyone. Chris Anderson: Wait a sec — that's your wish? CS: That's my wish. CA: That's his wish! (Applause) CS: We started Architecture for Humanity with 700 dollars and a website. So Chris somehow decided to give me 100,000. So why not this many people? Open-source architecture is the way to go. You have a diverse community of participants — and we're not just talking about inventors and designers, but we're talking about the funding model. My role is not as a designer; it's as a conduit between the design world and the humanitarian world. And what we need is something that replicates me globally, because I haven't slept in seven years. (Laughter) Secondly, what will this thing be? Designers want to respond to issues of humanitarian crisis, but they don't want some company in the West taking their idea and basically profiting from it. So Creative Commons has developed the Developing Nations license. And what that means is that a designer can — The Siyathemba project I showed was the first ever building to have a Creative Commons license on it. As soon as that is built, anyone in Africa or any developing nation can take the construction documents and replicate it for free. (Applause) So why not allow designers the opportunity to do this, but still protect their rights here? We want to have a community where you can upload ideas, and those ideas can be tested in an earthquake, in flood, in all sorts of austere environments. The reason that's important is I don't want to wait for the next Katrina to find out if my house works. That's too late, we need to do it now. So doing that globally — and I want this whole thing to work multi-lingually. When you look at the face of an architect, most people think a gray-haired white guy. I don't see that; I see the face of the world. So I want everyone from all over the planet to be able to be a part of this design and development. The idea of needs-based competitions — XPRIZE for the other 98 percent, if you want to call it that. We also want to look at ways of matchmaking and putting funding partners together, and the idea of integrating manufacturers — fab labs in every country. When I hear about the $100 laptop and it's going to educate every child — educate every designer in the world. Put one in every favela, every slum settlement. Because you know what? Innovation will happen. And I need to know that. It's called the leap-back. We talk about leapfrog technologies. I write with Worldchanging, and the one thing we've been talking about is, I learn more on the ground than I've ever learned here. So let's take those ideas, adapt them, and we can use them. These ideas are supposed to be adaptable; they should have the potential for evolution; they should be developed by every nation in the world and useful for every nation in the world. What will it take? There should be a sheet. I don't have time to read this, because I'm going to be yanked off. CA: Let's just leave it up for a sec. CS: Well, what will it take? You guys are smart. So it's going to take a lot of computing power, because I want the idea that any laptop anywhere in the world can plug into the system and be able to not only participate in developing these designs, but utilize the designs. Also, a process of reviewing the designs. I want every Arup engineer in the world to check and make sure that we're doing stuff that's standing, because those guys are the best in the world. Plug. And so, you know, I want these — I just should note: I have two laptops and one of them is there, and that has 3000 designs on it. If I drop that laptop ... What happens? So it's important to have these proven ideas put up there, easy to use, easy to get ahold of. My mom once said, ""There's nothing worse than being all mouth and no trousers."" (Laughter) I'm fed up of talking about making change. You only make it by doing it. We've changed FEMA guidelines; we've changed public policy; we've changed international response — based on building things. So for me, it's important that we create a real conduit for innovation, and that it's free innovation. Think of free culture — this is free innovation. Somebody said this a couple of years back. I will give points for those who know it. But I think the man was maybe 25 years too early. So let's do it. Thank you. (Applause)"	我將帶大家踏上一段旅程為了解釋這個願望，我將不得不把你們帶到世界各地很多人都沒有到過的地方當我24歲左右的時候，我和凱特‧史代開始了一個組織來帶動建築師和設計師參與人道主義的工作不僅僅涉及應對自然災害還包括系統性的問題我們相信在資源和專業知識匱乏的地方創新、可持續的設計才能夠真正地改善人們的生活 因此，這一切都要從我的 — 我最初是一名建築師，或培訓作為一個建築師我一直對社會認真負責的設計以及你們怎樣能夠真正產生影響感到興趣但當我在建築學校念書的時候我彷佛是當中的害群之馬許多建築師似乎認為，當你設計的時候你是在設計珠寶，而且是一個你嘗試和渴望擁有的珠寶然而我覺得，當你設計時對那個你設計的社區來說你不是在改進便是在破壞所以你並不是單單是為了那些居民建造房屋或是那些將會使用那些房屋的人們而是為了那整個社區 在1999年，我們通過為在科索沃返回的難民解答房屋危機而開始我那時候不知道我在做什麼，就像我說的，我那時20多歲正值網路的時代，所以我們開始了一個網站我們在網站上發起召喚，讓我吃驚的是在幾個月內，我們收到數百名來自世界各地參賽作品於是我們興建了一些建築範本以及把一些概念嘗試了兩年後，我們開始了一個應對在非洲撒哈拉以南數個，在愛滋病的流行而開發的流動診所項目結果我們收到來自53個國家共550個參賽作品我們有來自世界各地的設計師參加這個項目而且我們也展覽了隨後的設計2004年是我們的轉捩點我們開始對自然災害產生應對也開始了在伊朗和巴姆的工作同時間我們在非洲的工作也持續進行 在美國大部分人對貧窮感到陌生但當你在 — 我住在蒙大拿州波茲曼市—往北走到了北部平原上的保留帶或南下到阿拉巴馬州和密西西比州在卡崔娜颶風來襲前，你可以看到一些生活條件比發展中國家國家來得要差的地方因此，我們在內陸城市和其他地方開始參與和工作 等一下我會介紹更多的項目然後是2005年的大自然災害我認為我們幾乎可以肯定2005年是令人恐懼的一年當涉及到自然災害的時候而由於網際網路因為連接到部落格等等在發生海嘯幾個小時後，我們已經在籌集資金以及參與救災的工作在最初那幾天，我們靠著幾部筆記本電腦運作我收到四千多封需要幫助的電子郵件所以我們開始參與那邊的方案我將談點別的當然，這一年我們在做和卡崔娜颶風相應的工作以及重建工程的後續工作 這是一個簡要的概述2004年，我真的無法應付那些大量需要幫助的人或是那些要求幫助的請求那些請求全來到我的筆記電腦和手機裡因此，我們決定採用一個開放 —基本上是一個開源的商業模式即任何人，在世界任何地方，可以開始一個地方分會然後他們可以參與當地的問題因為我不相信所謂的烏托邦所有問題都是地方性的，所有解決方案也都是地方性的因此，這意味著住在密西西比州人比我更清楚了解密西西比州因此，我們用MeetUp和所有其他這類型的網路工具結果我們開了40個分會與及數千多名建築師分佈在104個國家所以，重點是 — 不好意思，我從來沒有穿過西裝所以我知道我一定會除掉它因為我打算很快把它除掉 因此，在過去7年，這不僅僅是關於非營利而是它使我相信，有這樣的基層運動在進行有很多對社會負責的設計師他們相信這個世界可以團結一起我們有機會 — 不是責任而是機會 — 去參與改變這個世界 (笑聲) 我會把這加在我的時間上所以你不知道的是我們有數以千計的設計師在世界各地工作他們僅靠著一個網站聯繫，而我們只有三個工作人員通過做一些沒有人告訴我們不能做的事我們做到了。所以，天真或許不是壞的七年後，我們已經發展到有了提倡、煽動和實施，我們提倡好的設計不僅通過學生的研討會和講座，公眾論壇社論，我們有一本不僅是關於人道主義工作的書而且它還包括減輕災害和處理公共政策我們可以談論聯邦緊急事務管理局，但那會是另一個演講煽動發展與各社區有關的構思和非政府組織做開源設計比賽談到與社區配對然後實施 — 切切實實地走出去工作因為當你發明時，直到它建成了，它才是現實因此很重要的是，當我們在設計並試圖創建改變時，我們真真實實地建立這種改變 這裡我選了一些項目科索沃，我們在1999年的科索沃做了一個公開的設計比賽就像我說的，這引發了各式各樣的構想這重點不是緊急避難所而是可持續5到10年的過渡性房屋而且可放置於該地居民的住宅附近然後，他們將重建自己家園這不是把建築強加在社區上而是給他們的工具和空間讓他們重建他們想要的樣子我們的設計有從宏偉到可笑的，但它們都行得通這是一個充氣大麻屋，它已建成並可使用這是一個運輸貨櫃，已建成和很實用我們還有和很多不同的想法不僅涉及建築和設計還包括治理的問題和通過複雜的網絡來創建社區理念 因此，我們不僅和設計師合作還和多種技術為基礎的專業人員合作使用被摧毀的房屋來建立新的家園使用稻草包來建設創造太陽能吸熱壁然後在1999年時，發生了一件值得注意的事 我們去了非洲，原本只是去看看住屋的問題然而在三天內，我們意識到問題並不是在住屋而是在日益蔓延的愛滋病這並不是醫生告訴我們的而是和我們住在一起的村民告訴我們因此，我們想出了一個好主意與其讓人們步行10、15公里去看醫生，還不如把醫生帶到他們去便是這樣，我們開始參與的醫學界的工作那時候，我們認為我們是真的很聰明，就像火花一樣閃燿 —我們想出這一個偉大的構想，流動診所—一個可以廣泛分佈在非洲撒哈拉以南的流動診所那裡的社區和醫界對我們說「我們在過去的十年也是這樣想，我們早已知道這一點我們只是不知道怎樣實行。」在某種程度上，我們拿了一個早存在的需要，然後找出解決方案因此，我們再次找到各式各樣的概念 這一個是我個人喜愛概念是建築不只是用來解決問題還包括提高人們的意識這是一個紅麻診所。你拿一顆種子，然後把它種在土地一個月裡它便會生長14英尺在第四個星期，醫生會來了把草刈掉再把一個拉伸結構放在頂部當醫生完成治療和看完病人和村民後你可以把診所砍下來吃，這是一個可以吃掉的診所 (笑聲) 我們面對的是，如果你有愛滋病你要明白你是需要營養以及明白營養的重要性是和得到抗病毒藥物是一樣重要的所以這是一個十分重要的解決方法這個是我的喜愛，因為它不僅僅是一個診所，還是一個社區中心這個是關於建立貿易路線和經濟引擎在社區內這樣社區便可以自給自足 每一個方案都是永續的我這樣做並不是因為狂熱環保份子而是因為當你每天只可以花四元的時候你要生存便必須生活在永續中你要知道你的能量是從哪裡來你要知道你的資源是來自哪你必須保持把需要維修的減少因此，這是有關獲取經濟的引擎然後靈活運用因此它不僅僅是一個愛滋病診所，它也是一個社區中心你可以看到我們把不同的想法發展成範本然後最終把它們建成， 今年目前我們已經有新建的診所在尼日利亞和肯亞 我們之後還開發了西亞添巴，這個方案 —那社區來找我們，告訴我們他們的問題是女孩沒有受到教育那地方年齡介乎16至24歲的的女生有一半是患有愛滋病這並不是因為他們濫交而是因為他們沒有知識因此我們決定用運動的構思來建造一個青年體育中心而它同時作用愛滋病宣傳中心那裡當教練的女孩同一時間也是受過專門培訓的醫生我們用有一個很穩健的方式來建立當地的保健我們最後選了九個決賽者他們分佈在整個區域然後我們讓那社區挑選他們喜歡的設計他們說，這是屬於我們的設計因為它不單只致力於社區它還賦予這個社區力量讓他們成為重建進程的一部分 這便是比賽的優勝作品我們也切切實實地和地區與客戶一起工作你可以看到這個設計師與在西亞添巴誇祖魯納塔爾第一支女子足球隊一起工作他們可以告訴你更多 我的名字是西西，我在非洲中心工作我是這裡的顧問，也是南非曼德拉國家隊的足球運動員我也是Vodacom聯盟一個叫比薩的隊伍的隊員現已改為叫西亞添巴這是我們的主場 我等一下再放給你們看，因為我的時間不多了我可以看到克里斯狡猾地看著我 這是一個聯系我和一個想要在坦桑尼亞開發非洲第一個遠程醫療中心的人面談我們可以說只在幾個月前見面而且，但我們已經發展了一個設計而且還有合作顆伴在那裡工作了通過兩個TEDster的介紹雪麗兒‧海勒和安德‧魯佐利我認識了一個十分優秀的非洲女士我們在六月開工建設，並將在TEDGlobal開幕所以如果你會來TEDGlobal，你便可以來看看 不過我們最知名的可能是處理災害和發展我們已經參與了很多不同的議題例如海嘯，以及卡崔娜颶風等等這是一個370美元，可以很容易地組裝的住屋這是一個社區的設計一個社區設計的社區中心這意味著我們與那個社區一起生活和工作他們是設計過程的一環孩子們實際上參與了制訂地方社區中心的位置然後通過技能培訓最終與我們一起建造這社區中心 這是另一所學校這是聯合國在六個月內給予這些他們 — 12個塑料防雨布這是在八月時，這是用來替代的它屬意持續兩年當雨季來臨了，你什麼也聽不到而在夏季時，室內大約華氏140度所以我們說，物盡其用吧！每所學校都有成本低廉的雨水收集系統一堂課、三間教室和雨水收集共要5000美元我們在亞特蘭大靠著售賣熱巧克力籌得總數它是孩子的父母蓋成的孩子們也全一起蓋建它幾個星期前開幕現在這所學校已經有600個孩子在使用 (掌聲) 後來，災難襲擊我們的家園我們已經在CNN和Fox看到那些糟糕的故事但我們看不到好的故事這裡是一個社區，他們聚在一起，他們對等待說不他們建立了夥伴關係，一個多樣化的合作夥伴實際地制訂東比洛西克的規劃和找出參與的人我們有超過1500名志願者重建和整修家園以及弄清楚聯邦緊急事務管理局條例而不是等待他們支配我們應該如何重建與居民一起工作，讓他們走出自己的家園因此他們不會生病，這是他們清理自己的方式設計房屋: 這房子是要在一兩個星期完成這是一個整修的屋子，四天裡完成這是一個給在使用助步器的女人的雜物間她已70歲，這是聯邦緊急措施署給她的600美元，這是兩天前發生的事我們很快整理出一個洗手間它已建成並且已投入使用，她今天剛開始了她的生意她將會在那裡去清洗別人的衣服 這是桑德拉和卡爾霍恩，他們是攝影師他們在過去40年記錄了下九區這是他們的家，這些是他們拍的照片我們正在幫助他們，和與他們共同努力去創建一個新的房子我們所完成的項目，我們參與和支持的項目為什麼援助機構不這樣做呢？這是聯合國帳篷這是新的聯合國帳篷，今年剛推出可以快速組裝。它有一個側窗，這就是發明花了它們20年時間設計並使用我那時12歲，這是一個嚴重的問題 幸運的是，我們並不孤獨世界各地有成千上萬的建築師、設計師和發明家正在參與人道主義的工作更多大麻房子建成了—明顯地這在日本很流行我不知道他們吸的是什麼這是一個抓夾，設計它的人說只需附加膜結構唯便可以支持橫樑這傢伙原先為美國航空總署設計的—現在設計房屋我將很快地把這些概括因為我只剩下幾分鐘 這些所有都是在過去的兩年完成的我給你們看的可是要花二十年去完成的而這只是在過去幾年建成的一小部分從巴西到印度、墨西哥、阿拉巴馬州、中國、以色列、巴勒斯坦、越南設計師的平均年齡是三十二歲 — 這像我的年齡一樣。所以這是一個年輕的—我必須停在這兒，因為Arup也在會場這是世界上設計最好的廁所如果你有機會到印度，一定要用一下這個廁所 (笑聲) 克里斯‧路刻文會告訴你為什麼我肯定這是他想做的，但但未來不會是像紐約一樣滿佈高樓的城市但當你看到這些，你會想到危機但我看到的是許多、許多生機有十億人生活在赤貧之中我們常常聽到關於他們的東面四十億生活在增長但脆弱的經濟環境中七個中便有一個生活在未經籌劃的地區如果我們對即將發生的住房危機什麼都不做二十年內，三分之一的人將會住在未經籌劃的地區或難民營，環顧左右，你們其中一些人將在那裡我們如何提高五十億人的生活水平呢？靠著一千萬個解決方案 所以我希望開發一個包含積極創新和可持續的設計社會以改善大家的生活環境 等一下。等一下。這是你的願望？ 這是我的願望 這是他的願望！ (掌聲) 我們開始Architecture for Humanity (人道主義建築組織) 時只靠著七百美元和一個網站所以克里斯基於某原因決定給我十萬美元那麼為什麼不這麼多人？開源建築是最可行的因為你擁有一些多樣化參與者—我們談的不僅僅是發明家和設計師我們談論的是撥款模式我的角色不是一個設計師而是設計界和人道主義的世界的管道而我們需要的是一個像我這樣的人因為整整七年沒睡了 (笑聲) 再者，這會是什麼呢？設計師們想回應人道主義危機的問題但他們不希望西方一些公司抄襲他們的概念而從中受益因此Creative Commons開發了發展中國家的許可證而這意味著—那個我剛讓你們看的西亞添巴方案是第一個擁有Creative Commons該認可的方案當它建完後，任何在非洲或任何發展中國家的人也可以免費的採取施工文件並複製它 (掌聲) 那麼為什麼不能讓設計師有機會做到這一點但仍然保護他們的權利？因為我們希望有一個讓你們分享構思的平台而這些構思可以經歷地震、洪水以及在各種嚴峻環境的考驗，這是很重要的因為我不想等待下一個颶風來看看我家是否行得通因為這太遲了，我們必須現在就這樣做而且是在全球裡做我希望這可以在世界上不同的地方裡也通行因為當人們想到建築師，大部分人會聯想到一個灰髮斑斑的白人我看到的不是這樣，我看到的是世上不同種族的人們所以我希望來自全國各地的人能夠成為這設計和開發的一分子基於需求競爭想的構法 — 給其他98%的人的X獎項你可以這樣稱呼它 我們也想看看不同的合作途徑以及把資金夥伴拉攏在一起還有整合製造商的想法 — 在每一個國家設置實驗室當我聽到100美元筆記電腦將會教育每個小孩教育這世界上每一個設計師，在每一個貧民區放一部在每一個貧民窟放一部因為創新將會為此發生而我需要知道這些，那所謂的歸真我們談談跨越技術，我替Worldchanging家的以及我們一直在談論的是我在各地工作時學到的比在這裡學到更多因些讓我們拿這些構思，然後活用它們吧這些構思都有適應性它們都有發展潛力它們應在世界上每個國家發展並在每一個國家發揮用途，怎樣才能這樣呢？ 這裡有一張清單，我沒有時間讀出這些因為我將會被拉下來 讓它放在那裡幾秒鐘 那麼我們要怎樣做？你們真聰明它將要採用很多的計算能力，因為我想 —我想做的是世界上每一部筆記本電腦都可以連接到系統裡而且不僅可以參與發現那些設計也可以運用它們，而那過程更可作評審我希望每個Arup的工程師去檢查並確保我們正在建造穩固的東西因為他們是世界上最好的工程師 所以你知道，我想 — 我需要提到我有兩部筆記本電腦和其中一部在那兒它有三千個設計在內，如果我把它摔壞了，怎樣辨?所以把那些已經證明合用的設計上傳那裡是很重要因為這便可以容易使用，以及容易得到掌握我媽媽曾經說過，沒有比光說而不實行更差勁了 (笑聲) 我已經厭倦了談論作出改變只有實行才能真正的改變我們已經改變了聯邦緊急措施署的指導方針，我們已經改變了公共政策我們已經改變了國際關於建設的反應對我來說，最重要的是我們建立一個真正的開放創新渠道想到自由文化 — 這是開放的創新在數年前有人這樣說過我會給那些知道的人加分我想說這話的男子可能早走我們25年，所以我們現在立刻行動吧 謝謝 (掌聲)
