Talk	en	zh-tw
cameron_russell_looks_aren_t_everything_believe_me_i_m_a_model	"Hi. My name is Cameron Russell, and for the last little while, I've been a model. Actually, for 10 years. And I feel like there's an uncomfortable tension in the room right now because I should not have worn this dress. (Laughter) So luckily, I brought an outfit change. This is the first outfit change on the TED stage, so you guys are pretty lucky to witness it, I think. If some of the women were really horrified when I came out, you don't have to tell me now, but I'll find out later on Twitter. (Laughter) I'd also note that I'm quite privileged to be able to transform what you think of me in a very brief 10 seconds. Not everybody gets to do that. These heels are very uncomfortable, so good thing I wasn't going to wear them. The worst part is putting this sweater over my head, because that's when you'll all laugh at me, so don't do anything while it's over my head. All right. So, why did I do that? That was awkward. (Laughter) Well — (Laughter) Hopefully not as awkward as that picture. Image is powerful, but also, image is superficial. I just totally transformed what you thought of me, in six seconds. And in this picture, I had actually never had a boyfriend in real life. I was totally uncomfortable, and the photographer was telling me to arch my back and put my hand in that guy's hair. And of course, barring surgery, or the fake tan that I got two days ago for work, there's very little that we can do to transform how we look, and how we look, though it is superficial and immutable, has a huge impact on our lives. So today, for me, being fearless means being honest. And I am on this stage because I am a model. I am on this stage because I am a pretty, white woman, and in my industry, we call that a sexy girl. I'm going to answer the questions that people always ask me, but with an honest twist. So the first question is, how do you become a model? I always just say, ""Oh, I was scouted,"" but that means nothing. The real way that I became a model is I won a genetic lottery, and I am the recipient of a legacy, and maybe you're wondering what is a legacy. Well, for the past few centuries we have defined beauty not just as health and youth and symmetry that we're biologically programmed to admire, but also as tall, slender figures, and femininity and white skin. And this is a legacy that was built for me, and it's a legacy that I've been cashing out on. And I know there are people in the audience who are skeptical at this point, and maybe there are some fashionistas who are like, ""Wait. Naomi. Tyra. Joan Smalls. Liu Wen."" And first, I commend you on your model knowledge. Very impressive. (Laughter) But unfortunately, I have to inform you that in 2007, a very inspired NYU Ph.D. student counted all the models on the runway, every single one that was hired, and of the 677 models that were hired, only 27, or less than four percent, were non-white. The next question people always ask is, ""Can I be a model when I grow up?"" And the first answer is, ""I don't know, they don't put me in charge of that."" But the second answer, and what I really want to say to these little girls is, ""Why? You know? You can be anything. You could be the President of the United States, or the inventor of the next Internet, or a ninja cardiothoracic surgeon poet, which would be awesome, because you'd be the first one."" (Laughter) If, after this amazing list, they still are like, ""No, no, Cameron, I want to be a model,"" well, then I say, ""Be my boss."" Because I'm not in charge of anything, and you could be the editor in chief of American Vogue or the CEO of H&M, or the next Steven Meisel. Saying that you want to be a model when you grow up is akin to saying that you want to win the Powerball when you grow up. It's out of your control, and it's awesome, and it's not a career path. I will demonstrate for you now 10 years of accumulated model knowledge, because unlike cardiothoracic surgeons, it can just be distilled right now. So, if the photographer is right there, the light is right there, like a nice HMI, and the client says, ""We want a walking shot,"" this leg goes first, nice and long, this arm goes back, this arm goes forward, the head is at three quarters, and you just go back and forth, just do that, and then you look back at your imaginary friends, 300, 400, 500 times. (Laughter) It will look something like this. (Laughter) Hopefully less awkward than that one in the middle. That was — I don't know what happened there. Unfortunately, after you've gone to school, and you have a résumé and you've done a few jobs, you can't say anything anymore, so if you say you want to be the President of the United States, but your résumé reads, ""Underwear Model: 10 years,"" people give you a funny look. The next question is, ""Do they retouch all the photos?"" And yeah, they pretty much retouch all the photos, but that is only a small component of what's happening. This picture is the very first picture that I ever took, and it's also the very first time that I had worn a bikini, and I didn't even have my period yet. I know we're getting personal, but I was a young girl. This is what I looked like with my grandma just a few months earlier. Here's me on the same day as this shoot. My friend got to come. Here's me at a slumber party a few days before I shot French Vogue. Here's me on the soccer team and in V Magazine. And here's me today. And I hope what you're seeing is that these pictures are not pictures of me. They are constructions, and they are constructions by a group of professionals, by hairstylists and makeup artists and photographers and stylists and all of their assistants and pre-production and post-production, and they build this. That's not me. Okay, so the next question people always ask me is, ""Do you get free stuff?"" (Laughter) I do have too many 8-inch heels which I never get to wear, except for earlier, but the free stuff that I get is the free stuff that I get in real life, and that's what we don't like to talk about. I grew up in Cambridge, and one time I went into a store and I forgot my money and they gave me the dress for free. When I was a teenager, I was driving with my friend who was an awful driver and she ran a red and of course, we got pulled over, and all it took was a ""Sorry, officer,"" and we were on our way. And I got these free things because of how I look, not who I am, and there are people paying a cost for how they look and not who they are. I live in New York, and last year, of the 140,000 teenagers that were stopped and frisked, 86% of them were black and Latino, and most of them were young men. And there are only 177,000 young black and Latino men in New York, so for them, it's not a question of, ""Will I get stopped?"" but ""How many times will I get stopped? When will I get stopped?"" When I was researching this talk, I found out that of the 13-year-old girls in the United States, 53% don't like their bodies, and that number goes to 78% by the time that they're 17. So, the last question people ask me is, ""What is it like to be a model?"" And I think the answer that they're looking for is, ""If you are a little bit skinnier and you have shinier hair, you will be so happy and fabulous."" And when we're backstage, we give an answer that maybe makes it seem like that. We say, ""It's really amazing to travel, and it's amazing to get to work with creative, inspired, passionate people."" And those things are true, but they're only one half of the story, because the thing that we never say on camera, that I have never said on camera, is, ""I am insecure."" And I'm insecure because I have to think about what I look like every day. And if you ever are wondering, ""If I have thinner thighs and shinier hair, will I be happier?"" you just need to meet a group of models, because they have the thinnest thighs, the shiniest hair and the coolest clothes, and they're the most physically insecure women probably on the planet. When I was writing this talk, I found it very difficult to strike an honest balance, because on the one hand, I felt very uncomfortable to come out here and say, ""Look I've received all these benefits from a deck stacked in my favor,"" and it also felt really uncomfortable to follow that up with, ""and it doesn't always make me happy."" But mostly it was difficult to unpack a legacy of gender and racial oppression when I am one of the biggest beneficiaries. But I'm also happy and honored to be up here and I think that it's great that I got to come before 10 or 20 or 30 years had passed and I'd had more agency in my career, because maybe then I wouldn't tell the story of how I got my first job, or maybe I wouldn't tell the story of how I paid for college, which seems so important right now. If there's a takeaway to this talk, I hope it's that we all feel more comfortable acknowledging the power of image in our perceived successes and our perceived failures. Thank you. (Applause)"	"大家好，我叫卡梅倫·羅素最近好一陣子都在當模特兒其實，已經十年了我覺得，現場突然間有種不安的緊張感因為我實在不該穿這一條連身裙。 （笑聲） 幸好我帶了一套服裝更換這是 TED 台上首次的換裝秀你們能目睹這一刻可真幸運但如果我變身後，女士們覺得不堪入目也不必立即告訴我，我很快就會在推特上看到了（笑聲） 我也想說一下，我感到十分榮幸能夠將你們對我的想法在短短的十秒鐘內做出轉變並非所有人都有這機會這些高跟鞋讓人很不舒服好在我並不打算繼續穿上但糟糕的是我要把這件毛衣從頭套上因為穿的時候要作笑柄了所以毛衣在我頭上時別笑好 不過，為何我要這樣做？很尷尬吧幸好希望沒有那照片怪形象的威力很大但形象只是表面的我在六秒鐘就徹底轉變你對我的想法而在這照片中我實際上從未有過男朋友拍照時我很不自在而攝影師卻叫我拱起腰並將手放到那個男人的頭髮而當然，不談整容手術或是為了工作需要而提早兩天做的日光燈曬膚我們幾乎無法去改變外貌而我們的外貌，儘管是表面並一成不變卻對我們的生活有重大影響 所以今日，對我而言，無懼就是坦誠而此刻我站在台上，因為我是模特兒我在台上，因為我是位美麗的白人女性在我行業內稱為「性感女孩」而我將要解答人們總是問我的問題並坦誠相待 第一個問題是，妳是怎麼成為模特兒的？我總是說：「噢，是星探發掘的」，但答了等於無答我當上模特兒真正的途徑是我中了張遺傳樂透，得到豐富的傳承之寶你可能想何謂傳承之寶其實，過去幾個世紀我們定義的美，不只是健康、年輕以及對稱美，這些人類天生就欣賞的特質還有高瘦的身形女性韻味和白皮膚而這正是一件為我打造的傳承之寶也是件一直幫我賺進鈔票的傳承之寶我知道在座觀眾此時有些人或許會抱有懷疑甚至有些時尚人士會說""慢着，還有娜歐蜜、泰拉、瓊絲莫斯和劉雯呢""首先，我十分欣賞你對模特兒界的知識很令人讚嘆（笑聲）但不幸的，我要告訴你，在 2007 年一位受到啟發的紐約大學哲學博士生統計了所有在伸展台上的模特兒，每一位被聘請的發現在 677 位模特兒當中只有 27 位，低於 4%，是非白人 第二個人們經常問的問題是「我長大後可以成為模特兒嗎？」第一個答案是：「我不知道呢，這不是我作主的」但第二個答案，也是我真正想對那些小女孩說的是：""為什麼呢？你的出路之廣你可能成為美國總統或是新一代網路的發明家又或是集忍者、心胸肺外科醫生、詩人於一身的人這一定會很棒，因為你會是第一個這樣的人（笑聲）如果聽完這讓人讚嘆的清單，他們依然說：「不，不，卡梅倫，我想做模特兒」我會說：那你自己決定吧因為主宰一切的人不是我你可能會成為美國《時尚》雜誌的總編輯或是 H&M 的總裁或是第二位Steven Meisel（知名攝影師）與其說你長大後想當模特兒就像是說你長大後想中樂透兩者都是很棒，但都無法掌控並且也都不能當做職涯我將告訴您十年累積而來的模特兒知識因為不像是心胸肺外科醫生我的經驗可以立刻被濃縮並立刻展示比方說，如果攝影師站在那裏燈光從那兒打過來，像是一盞不錯的 HMI 燈而客戶說：「卡梅倫，我們想要來個走步特寫」那就先踏出這條修長的美腿這手臂往後擺，另條手臂往前頭望四分之三側，而你來回的走你往後看着那些幻想出來的朋友重複以上 300、400、500 次。（笑聲）結果看起來就像是這樣（笑聲）希望沒有中間那張的怪那張…我也不知發生什麼事 不幸的是，當你上學後有份履歷表，做了數份工作之後你就再也不能說大話了例如你說你想做美國總統但履歷寫着：「內衣模特兒：十年」人們一定覺得你很奇怪 下一個人們常問的問題是：「照片全都有修過嗎？」是的，照片幾乎全都被修過了但只是整個過程的一小部分這是我第一次拍的照片也是我第一次穿比基尼當時我生理期還沒來我知道話題有點扯到隱私了不過，那時我是個小女孩那是我在那數個月前與祖母合照的模樣這兩張是同日拍的照片我朋友也跟著我來這是我在替《時尚》雜誌法國版拍攝前幾天在一場睡衣派對中拍的這是我與足球隊合照，和刊於 V 雜誌的照片而這是今日的我我希望你們看到的是這些並非我真正的照片它們是被製作的由一群專業人士所製作髮型師、化妝師、攝影師，還有造型師以及他們的助手，經過前期策劃以及後期製作是他們建置出來的，那不是我 另一個經常有人問的問題是「妳可以拿到免費東西嗎？」我的確有太多沒在穿的八吋高跟鞋除了剛才那雙但是要說我得到的免費物品就是日常生活中能免費得到的事我們不愛談論這些事我在劍橋長大有一次我到商店購物，忘了帶錢包他們便把裙子送給我在我青少年時期，有次乘朋友開的車她開得很差，闖了紅燈，而當然被警察攔截了結果我們只說了聲「抱歉，警察」我們馬上就被放行了而我之所以得到這些待遇，皆因我的樣貌而非我本身，然而卻有人得付出代價只因他們的樣貌而非他們本身我住在紐約，在去年140,000 個被攔截搜查的年輕人中86％ 是黑人和拉丁裔人而絕大部分都是年輕男子其實紐約只有 177,000 名年輕黑人和拉丁裔男子所以對他們而言，並不是「我會否被攔截？」而是「我究竟會被攔截多少次？何時會輪到我？」當我在研究今日的講題時我發現在美國的 13 歲少女中53% 不滿意自己的身材而到他們 17 歲時，數字更升至 78% 最後一個別人問我的問題是「做模特兒的感覺是怎樣？」我想他們期待的答案會是：「如果你再瘦一點，頭髮再亮麗一些你就會感到開心、美好」而當我們回到後台，我們給的答案也許聽起來就像是那樣我們說：「可以周遊列國很棒與有創意、靈感並充滿熱情的人一起工作也很棒」誠然如此，這不過只是故事的一半因為我們永遠不會對着鏡頭說我之前從來沒有在鏡頭上說過就是：「我沒有安全感」我無安全感，因為我時刻要記掛我今天看起來怎麼樣如果你仍然在想：「如果我的腿更修長，頭髮更光澤，我會更開心嗎？」你只需跟一群模特兒見面因為他們都有最修長的美腿，最具光澤的頭髮還有最酷的衣服她們卻是世界上對自己身體最沒安全感的女性 所以，當我在撰寫講稿時，我發覺要在坦誠的基礎上取個平衡很困難，因為一方面我覺得十分不安，當我出來說：「看，我得到一大堆它人給的好處」然而更不自在的是接着說：「但這並不總是讓感到開心」不過其實最難說出口的，就是去講述傳承下來的性別及種族壓迫因我是其中一位最大的得益者不過我也很開心和榮幸，今天能站到台上而且我覺得很棒，因為我可以不用在 10、20 或 30 年過去後事業更蓬勃發展時才來因為屆時我可能就不會再說我如何找到第一份工作或是我如何湊錢交大學學費這些在此時對我很重要的故事 若要在這次演講有些收穫，我希望大家都能更坦誠承認形象的威力，去審視我們以為的成功以及我們曾經以為的失敗 謝謝。（掌聲）"
