Talk	en	zh-tw
camille_seaman_haunting_photos_of_ice	As an artist, connection is very important to me. Through my work I'm trying to articulate that humans are not separate from nature and that everything is interconnected. I first went to Antarctica almost 10 years ago, where I saw my first icebergs. I was in awe. My heart beat fast, my head was dizzy, trying to comprehend what it was that stood in front of me. The icebergs around me were almost 200 feet out of the water, and I could only help but wonder that this was one snowflake on top of another snowflake, year after year. Icebergs are born when they calve off of glaciers or break off of ice shelves. Each iceberg has its own individual personality. They have a distinct way of interacting with their environment and their experiences. Some refuse to give up and hold on to the bitter end, while others can't take it anymore and crumble in a fit of dramatic passion. It's easy to think, when you look at an iceberg, that they're isolated, that they're separate and alone, much like we as humans sometimes view ourselves. But the reality is far from it. As an iceberg melts, I am breathing in its ancient atmosphere. As the iceberg melts, it is releasing mineral-rich fresh water that nourishes many forms of life. I approach photographing these icebergs as if I'm making portraits of my ancestors, knowing that in these individual moments they exist in that way and will never exist that way again. It is not a death when they melt; it is not an end, but a continuation of their path through the cycle of life. Some of the ice in the icebergs that I photograph is very young — a couple thousand years old. And some of the ice is over 100,000 years old. The last pictures I'd like to show you are of an iceberg that I photographed in Qeqetarsuaq, Greenland. It's a very rare occasion that you get to actually witness an iceberg rolling. So here it is. You can see on the left side a small boat. That's about a 15-foot boat. And I'd like you to pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is at the waterline. You can see here, it begins to roll, and the boat has moved to the other side, and the man is standing there. This is an average-size Greenlandic iceberg. It's about 120 feet above the water, or 40 meters. And this video is real time. (Music) And just like that, the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality. Thank you. (Applause)	作為一個藝術家，聯繫是對我很重要。通過我的作品，我想說明，人類離不開自然和一切都是相互有關聯的。我在大約10年前第一次去南極，在那裡我看到了我第一個冰山。我實在又敬又畏。我的心跳加快，我的頭開始暈眩，我試圖理解站在我面前究境是什麼。在我周圍的冰山露出水面幾乎200英尺。而我只能想到的是它整個是由一片雪花疊在另一片雪花之上，年複年。 冰山的誕生是由冰川經雕落或冰架脫落。每一個冰山都有自己的個性。它們以經驗用一個獨特的方式與環境相互影響。有些不肯放棄，抓住個你死我活，而其他不能再忍受，便戲劇性的激情崩塌。 當你看一個冰山，很容易想到，它們是孤立的，獨立和單獨的，就像我們有時覺得自己一樣。但現實是遠非如此。當冰山融化，我在呼吸其古老的氛圍。當冰山融化，它釋放含富礦物質的新鮮水滋養許多各種形式的生命。 我拍攝這些冰山的手法彷像我替我的祖先畫畫像，知道在這些個別的時刻，他們存在的方式，並且絕不會再這樣存在。它融化時不是死去;它不是一個結束，而是延續他們的道路,通過生命循環。我拍的冰山很年輕 —只有幾千多年的歷史。有一些冰超過 10萬歲。 最後我想給你看的圖片是我在格陵蘭Kekertsuatsiak拍到的一座冰山。這是一個非常難得的場合，可以實地親自看到冰山滾動。看看。你可以看到在左側一條小船。那是約15英尺的船。而我希望你要注意冰山在水線的形狀。你可以在這裡看到，它開始翻滾，而船已經移動到另一邊，而該男子正站在那裡。這是格陵蘭一個平均大小的冰山。大約120英尺在水以上，或40米。這個視頻是實時操作的。 （音樂） 而就這樣，冰山向你展示了它的不同個性。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
