Talk	en	zh-tw
camille_seaman_photos_from_a_storm_chaser	"Everything is interconnected. As a Shinnecock Indian, I was raised to know this. We are a small fishing tribe situated on the southeastern tip of Long Island near the town of Southampton in New York. When I was a little girl, my grandfather took me to sit outside in the sun on a hot summer day. There were no clouds in the sky. And after a while I began to perspire. And he pointed up to the sky, and he said, ""Look, do you see that? That's part of you up there. That's your water that helps to make the cloud that becomes the rain that feeds the plants that feeds the animals."" In my continued exploration of subjects in nature that have the ability to illustrate the interconnection of all life, I started storm chasing in 2008 after my daughter said, ""Mom, you should do that."" And so three days later, driving very fast, I found myself stalking a single type of giant cloud called the super cell, capable of producing grapefruit-size hail and spectacular tornadoes, although only two percent actually do. These clouds can grow so big, up to 50 miles wide and reach up to 65,000 feet into the atmosphere. They can grow so big, blocking all daylight, making it very dark and ominous standing under them. Storm chasing is a very tactile experience. There's a warm, moist wind blowing at your back and the smell of the earth, the wheat, the grass, the charged particles. And then there are the colors in the clouds of hail forming, the greens and the turquoise blues. I've learned to respect the lightning. My hair used to be straight. (Laughter) I'm just kidding. (Laughter) What really excites me about these storms is their movement, the way they swirl and spin and undulate, with their lava lamp-like mammatus clouds. They become lovely monsters. When I'm photographing them, I cannot help but remember my grandfather's lesson. As I stand under them, I see not just a cloud, but understand that what I have the privilege to witness is the same forces, the same process in a small-scale version that helped to create our galaxy, our solar system, our sun and even this very planet. All my relations. Thank you. (Applause)"	一切事物都是相互關聯的作為一個辛奈考克印第安人我從小就知道這點我們是個小漁村部落位於長島的東南端在紐約附近的南安普敦鎮 當我還是個小女孩爺爺帶我坐在夏季的炎熱太陽下天空沒有半片雲彩不一會兒，我開始出汗爺爺指向天空說：「你看到了嗎？那是你的一部分，你身體的水，幫助雲的產生，雲再變成雨，滋養植物，植物再餵養動物。」 在我持續探索自然的主題中顯示一切生命都是相互關聯的2008 年我開始追逐風暴因為我女兒說：「媽媽，你應該去做。」 三天後，我高速開車發現自己正接近一種巨大的雲稱為「超級細胞」它能產生葡萄柚大小的冰雹、及壯觀的龍捲風雖然這只有百分之二的機會雲能大到寬達八十公里高度可達兩萬公尺大到能遮蔽所有日光站在下方感到非常黑暗與不祥 追風是個非常有感覺的經驗溫暖、潮濕的風吹著你的背聞到泥土、小麥、青草、帶電粒子的氣味雲的顏色各不相同這是冰雹形成時的綠色和土耳其藍我學會了尊重閃電以前我的頭髮是直的 （笑聲） 開玩笑的啦 （笑聲） 真正讓我興奮的，是這些風暴的移動、漩渦、旋轉、起伏以及像熔岩燈的—乳房狀積雨雲它們是可愛的怪物 當我拍攝風暴時不禁想起爺爺的教訓當我站在風暴下我不只看到雲而是明白我有幸見證這個小規模的版本。同樣的力量與過程創造了我們的銀河系、太陽系、太陽、甚至這個星球 與我相互關聯每一位，謝謝你 （掌聲）
