Talk	en	zh-tw
candy_chang_before_i_die_i_want_to	"There are a lot of ways the people around us can help improve our lives. We don't bump into every neighbor, so a lot of wisdom never gets passed on, though we do share the same public spaces. So over the past few years, I've tried ways to share more with my neighbors in public space, using simple tools like stickers, stencils and chalk. And these projects came from questions I had, like: How much are my neighbors paying for their apartments? (Laughter) How can we lend and borrow more things, without knocking on each other's doors at a bad time? How can we share more memories of our abandoned buildings, and gain a better understanding of our landscape? How can we share more of our hopes for our vacant storefronts, so our communities can reflect our needs and dreams today? Now, I live in New Orleans, and I am in love with New Orleans. My soul is always soothed by the giant live oak trees, shading lovers, drunks and dreamers for hundreds of years, and I trust a city that always makes way for music. I feel like every time someone sneezes, New Orleans has a parade. (Laughter) The city has some of the most beautiful architecture in the world, but it also has one of the highest amounts of abandoned properties in America. I live near this house, and I thought about how I could make it a nicer space for my neighborhood, and I also thought about something that changed my life forever. In 2009, I lost someone I loved very much. Her name was Joan, and she was a mother to me. And her death was sudden and unexpected. And I thought about death a lot. And ... this made me feel deep gratitude for the time I've had. And ... brought clarity to the things that are meaningful to my life now. But I struggle to maintain this perspective in my daily life. I feel like it's easy to get caught up in the day-to-day, and forget what really matters to you. So with help from old and new friends, I turned the side of this abandoned house into a giant chalkboard, and stenciled it with a fill-in-the-blank sentence: ""Before I die, I want to ..."" So anyone walking by can pick up a piece of chalk, reflect on their life, and share their personal aspirations in public space. I didn't know what to expect from this experiment, but by the next day, the wall was entirely filled out, and it kept growing. And I'd like to share a few things that people wrote on this wall. ""Before I die, I want to be tried for piracy."" (Laughter) ""Before I die, I want to straddle the International Dateline."" ""Before I die, I want to sing for millions."" ""Before I die, I want to plant a tree."" ""Before I die, I want to live off the grid."" ""Before I die, I want to hold her one more time."" ""Before I die, I want to be someone's cavalry."" ""Before I die, I want to be completely myself."" So this neglected space became a constructive one, and people's hopes and dreams made me laugh out loud, tear up, and they consoled me during my own tough times. It's about knowing you're not alone; it's about understanding our neighbors in new and enlightening ways; it's about making space for reflection and contemplation, and remembering what really matters most to us as we grow and change. I made this last year, and started receiving hundreds of messages from passionate people who wanted to make a wall with their community. So, my civic center colleagues and I made a tool kit, and now walls have been made in countries around the world, including Kazakhstan, South Africa, Australia, Argentina, and beyond. Together, we've shown how powerful our public spaces can be if we're given the opportunity to have a voice, and share more with one another. Two of the most valuable things we have are time, and our relationships with other people. In our age of increasing distractions, it's more important than ever to find ways to maintain perspective, and remember that life is brief and tender. Death is something that we're often discouraged to talk about, or even think about, but I've realized that preparing for death is one of the most empowering things you can do. Thinking about death clarifies your life. Our shared spaces can better reflect what matters to us, as individuals and as a community, and with more ways to share our hopes, fears and stories, the people around us can not only help us make better places, they can help us lead better lives. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	有很多方法可以讓我們四周的人幫助我們改善生活但是我們不可能碰到每一個鄰居所以雖然我們的確共用相同的公共空間他們的智慧仍然無法傳遞給我們 所以過去幾年，我試著用不同的方法在公共空間裡跟我的鄰居分享更多的事我使用像便利貼、模板蠟紙及粉筆等簡單的工具這些計劃源自我的一些疑問，譬如說我的鄰居用多少錢租他們的房子？（笑聲）我們怎樣可以互相借還更多物品卻不會在不方便的時機敲彼此的大門？要如何讓我們多分享一些對那些廢棄大樓的回憶因而更加瞭解我們的都市景觀？如何讓我們對那些空置的店面分享更多的希望，讓我們這個社區能反映出我們現今的需求和夢想？ 我住在新奧爾良(New Orleans)而我也愛上了新奧爾良那些巨型橡樹總是安撫著我的靈魂幾百年來這些樹遮蔽着戀人、醉客及懷夢者而我對一個總是有辦法產生音樂的都市也懷抱著期待（笑聲）我覺得好像每次有人打噴嚏紐奧良就來一個遊行（笑聲）這個城市擁有世上最美麗的建築物但同時也擁有全美國最高的廢棄物業數量 我住在這棟房子附近，我在想要如何讓我的住家附近變成一個更好的居住空間我也想著一件讓我永遠改變生命的事 2009年，我失去了一位我所鍾愛的人她叫瓊，對我而言她就像母親她的死很突然、很意外我經常想到死亡而且這讓我對我所擁有的時光深深感謝而且讓我清楚地知道什麼事情對我的生活是有意義的但是在日常生活中我很難保持這個觀點我覺得好像很容易陷在每天的瑣事裡卻忘記了什麼才是真正重要的 所以藉由舊雨新知的幫助我把這棟廢棄屋的一面牆變成一塊巨型黑板，並且用蠟紙模板漆上一句填空題：“在我死之前，我想做...”所以每一個經過的人都可以拿起粉筆在這個公共空間裡，思考一下人生然後分享他們個人的願望 我並不知道會從這個實驗裡得到什麼但次日，這面牆寫的滿滿是字而且答案還繼續增加中我要跟各位分享一些人們寫在這面牆上的東西 “在我死之前，我想因我的海盜行為受審。”〈笑聲〉“在我死之前，我想要跨過國際換日線。”“在我死之前，我想要在數百萬人前唱歌。”“在我死之前，我想要種棵樹。”“在我死之前，我想要離經叛道一下。”“在我死之前，我想再擁抱她一次。”“在我死之前，我想當某人的騎兵。”“在我死之前，我想完全當我自己。” 所以這個被忽略的空間變成有建設性的地方而人們的希望與夢想讓我開懷大笑或撕裂我心他們在我困難的時候安慰了我這讓你明瞭你並不孤單這是對我們的街坊鄰居產生新的啟發與了解這是營造讓我們自省及思考的空間以及記得隨著我們成長及改變到底什麼對我們真正重要 我在去年做了這個計劃，然後開始收到數以百計從充滿熱情的人們捎來的訊息想要在他們的社區做這樣的一面牆所以我與我在Civic Center（講員的工作室）的同事做了一個小工具套件現在世上很多國家都有這面牆包括哈薩克、南非澳洲阿根廷及其它國家這樣的合作讓大家看到了，如果我們有機會發言並且與大家分享，我們的公共空間可以功能如此強大 我們最寶貴的兩件事就是時間及我們與其他人的關係在這個時代，使人分心的事愈來愈多如何堅持自己的看法及記得生命是短暫脆弱是比以往任何時候都來的重要死亡是我們不鼓勵談論甚至思考的事，但是我瞭解到為死亡做好準備是你所能做的最有能力的事之一思索死亡可以釐清你的生活 我們的公共空間可以更佳反映出什麼對我們是重要的無論是以個人的角度，或是以社群的角度隨著有愈來愈多的方法可以分享我們的希望、恐懼及經歷我們四周的人不但可以幫助我們創造更美好的地方，還可以幫助我們活出更好的生命謝謝（鼓掌） （鼓掌）謝謝（鼓掌）（鼓掌）
