Talk	en	zh-tw
carne_ross_an_independent_diplomat	"My story is a little bit about war. It's about disillusionment. It's about death. And it's about rediscovering idealism in all of that wreckage. And perhaps also, there's a lesson about how to deal with our screwed-up, fragmenting and dangerous world of the 21st century. I don't believe in straightforward narratives. I don't believe in a life or history written as decision ""A"" led to consequence ""B"" led to consequence ""C"" — these neat narratives that we're presented with, and that perhaps we encourage in each other. I believe in randomness, and one of the reasons I believe that is because me becoming a diplomat was random. I'm colorblind. I was born unable to see most colors. This is why I wear gray and black most of the time, and I have to take my wife with me to chose clothes. And I'd always wanted to be a fighter pilot when I was a boy. I loved watching planes barrel over our holiday home in the countryside. And it was my boyhood dream to be a fighter pilot. And I did the tests in the Royal Air Force to become a pilot, and sure enough, I failed. I couldn't see all the blinking different lights, and I can't distinguish color. So I had to choose another career, and this was in fact relatively easy for me, because I had an abiding passion all the way through my childhood, which was international relations. As a child, I read the newspaper thoroughly. I was fascinated by the Cold War, by the INF negotiations over intermediate-range nuclear missiles, the proxy war between the Soviet Union and the U.S. in Angola or Afghanistan. These things really interested me. And so I decided quite at an early age I wanted to be a diplomat. And I, one day, I announced this to my parents — and my father denies this story to this day — I said, ""Daddy, I want to be a diplomat."" And he turned to me, and he said, ""Carne, you have to be very clever to be a diplomat."" (Laughter) And my ambition was sealed. In 1989, I entered the British Foreign Service. That year, 5,000 people applied to become a diplomat, and 20 of us succeeded. And as those numbers suggest, I was inducted into an elite and fascinating and exhilarating world. Being a diplomat, then and now, is an incredible job, and I loved every minute of it — I enjoyed the status of it. I bought myself a nice suit and wore leather-soled shoes and reveled in this amazing access I had to world events. I traveled to the Gaza Strip. I headed the Middle East Peace Process section in the British Foreign Ministry. I became a speechwriter for the British Foreign Secretary. I met Yasser Arafat. I negotiated with Saddam's diplomats at the U.N. Later, I traveled to Kabul and served in Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban. And I would travel in a C-130 transport and go and visit warlords in mountain hideaways and negotiate with them about how we were going to eradicate Al Qaeda from Afghanistan, surrounded by my Special Forces escort, who, themselves, had to have an escort of a platoon of Royal Marines, because it was so dangerous. And that was exciting — that was fun. It was really interesting. And it's a great cadre of people, incredibly close-knit community of people. And the pinnacle of my career, as it turned out, was when I was posted to New York. I'd already served in Germany, Norway, various other places, but I was posted to New York to serve on the U.N. Security Council for the British delegation. And my responsibility was the Middle East, which was my specialty. And there, I dealt with things like the Middle East peace process, the Lockerbie issue — we can talk about that later, if you wish — but above all, my responsibility was Iraq and its weapons of mass destruction and the sanctions we placed on Iraq to oblige it to disarm itself of these weapons. I was the chief British negotiator on the subject, and I was steeped in the issue. And anyway, my tour — it was kind of a very exciting time. I mean it was very dramatic diplomacy. We went through several wars during my time in New York. I negotiated for my country the resolution in the Security Council of the 12th of September 2001 condemning the attacks of the day before, which were, of course, deeply present to us actually living in New York at the time. So it was kind of the best of time, worst of times kind of experience. I lived the high-life. Although I worked very long hours, I lived in a penthouse in Union Square. I was a single British diplomat in New York City; you can imagine what that might have meant. (Laughter) I had a good time. But in 2002, when my tour came to an end, I decided I wasn't going to go back to the job that was waiting for me in London. I decided to take a sabbatical, in fact, at the New School, Bruce. In some inchoate, inarticulate way I realized that there was something wrong with my work, with me. I was exhausted, and I was also disillusioned in a way I couldn't quite put my finger on. And I decided to take some time out from work. The Foreign Office was very generous. You could take these special unpaid leave, as they called them, and yet remain part of the diplomatic service, but not actually do any work. It was nice. And eventually, I decided to take a secondment to join the U.N. in Kosovo, which was then under U.N. administration. And two things happened in Kosovo, which kind of, again, shows the randomness of life, because these things turned out to be two of the pivots of my life and helped to deliver me to the next stage. But they were random things. One was that, in the summer of 2004, the British government, somewhat reluctantly, decided to have an official inquiry into the use of intelligence on WMD in the run up to the Iraq War, a very limited subject. And I testified to that inquiry in secret. I had been steeped in the intelligence on Iraq and its WMD, and my testimony to the inquiry said three things: that the government exaggerated the intelligence, which was very clear in all the years I'd read it. And indeed, our own internal assessment was very clear that Iraq's WMD did not pose a threat to its neighbors, let alone to us. Secondly, the government had ignored all available alternatives to war, which in some ways was a more discreditable thing still. The third reason, I won't go into. But anyway, I gave that testimony, and that presented me with a crisis. What was I going to do? This testimony was deeply critical of my colleagues, of my ministers, who had, in my view had perpetrated a war on a falsehood. And so I was in crisis. And this wasn't a pretty thing. I moaned about it, I hesitated, I went on and on and on to my long-suffering wife, and eventually I decided to resign from the British Foreign Service. I felt — there's a scene in the Al Pacino movie ""The Insider,"" which you may know, where he goes back to CBS after they've let him down over the tobacco guy, and he goes, ""You know, I just can't do this anymore. Something's broken."" And it was like that for me. I love that movie. I felt just something's broken. I can't actually sit with my foreign minister or my prime minister again with a smile on my face and do what I used to do gladly for them. So took a running leap and jumped over the edge of a cliff. And it was a very, very uncomfortable, unpleasant feeling. And I started to fall. And today, that fall hasn't stopped; I'm still falling. But, in a way, I've got used to the sensation of it. And in a way, I kind of like the sensation of it a lot better than I like actually standing on top of the cliff, wondering what to do. A second thing happened in Kosovo, which kind of — I need a quick gulp of water, forgive me. A second thing happened in Kosovo, which kind of delivered the answer, which I couldn't really answer, which is, ""What do I do with my life?"" I love diplomacy — I have no career — I expected my entire life to be a diplomat, to be serving my country. I wanted to be an ambassador, and my mentors, my heroes, people who got to the top of my profession, and here I was throwing it all away. A lot of my friends were still in it. My pension was in it. And I gave it up. And what was I going to do? And that year, in Kosovo, this terrible, terrible thing happened, which I saw. In March 2004, there were terrible riots all over the province — as it then was — of Kosovo. 18 people were killed. It was anarchy. And it's a very horrible thing to see anarchy, to know that the police and the military — there were lots of military troops there — actually can't stop that rampaging mob who's coming down the street. And the only way that rampaging mob coming down the street will stop is when they decide to stop and when they've had enough burning and killing. And that is not a very nice feeling to see, and I saw it. And I went through it. I went through those mobs. And with my Albanian friends, we tried to stop it, but we failed. And that riot taught me something, which isn't immediately obvious and it's kind of a complicated story. But one of the reasons that riot took place — those riots, which went on for several days, took place — was because the Kosovo people were disenfranchised from their own future. There were diplomatic negotiations about the future of Kosovo going on then, and the Kosovo government, let alone the Kosovo people, were not actually participating in those talks. There was this whole fancy diplomatic system, this negotiation process about the future of Kosovo, and the Kosovars weren't part of it. And funnily enough, they were frustrated about that. Those riots were part of the manifestation of that frustration. It wasn't the only reason, and life is not simple, one reason narratives. It was a complicated thing, and I'm not pretending it was more simple than it was. But that was one of the reasons. And that kind of gave me the inspiration — or rather to be precise, it gave my wife the inspiration. She said, ""Why don't you advise the Kosovars? Why don't you advise their government on their diplomacy?"" And the Kosovars were not allowed a diplomatic service. They were not allowed diplomats. They were not allowed a foreign office to help them deal with this immensely complicated process, which became known as the Final Status Process of Kosovo. And so that was the idea. That was the origin of the thing that became Independent Diplomat, the world's first diplomatic advisory group and a non-profit to boot. And it began when I flew back from London after my time at the U.N. in Kosovo. I flew back and had dinner with the Kosovo prime minister and said to him, ""Look, I'm proposing that I come and advise you on the diplomacy. I know this stuff. It's what I do. Why don't I come and help you?"" And he raised his glass of raki to me and said, ""Yes, Carne. Come."" And I came to Kosovo and advised the Kosovo government. Independent Diplomat ended up advising three successive Kosovo prime ministers and the multi-party negotiation team of Kosovo. And Kosovo became independent. Independent Diplomat is now established in five diplomatic centers around the world, and we're advising seven or eight different countries, or political groups, depending on how you wish to define them — and I'm not big on definitions. We're advising the Northern Cypriots on how to reunify their island. We're advising the Burmese opposition, the government of Southern Sudan, which — you heard it here first — is going to be a new country within the next few years. We're advising the Polisario Front of the Western Sahara, who are fighting to get their country back from Moroccan occupation after 34 years of dispossession. We're advising various island states in the climate change negotiations, which is suppose to culminate in Copenhagen. There's a bit of randomness here too because, when I was beginning Independent Diplomat, I went to a party in the House of Lords, which is a ridiculous place, but I was holding my drink like this, and I bumped into this guy who was standing behind me. And we started talking, and he said — I told him what I was doing, and I told him rather grandly I was going to establish Independent Diplomat in New York. At that time there was just me — and me and my wife were moving back to New York. And he said, ""Why don't you see my colleagues in New York?"" And it turned out he worked for an innovation company called ?What If!, which some of you have probably heard of. And one thing led to another, and I ended up having a desk in ?What If! in New York, when I started Independent Diplomat. And watching ?What If! develop new flavors of chewing gum for Wrigley or new flavors for Coke actually helped me innovate new strategies for the Kosovars and for the Saharawis of the Western Sahara. And I began to realize that there are different ways of doing diplomacy — that diplomacy, like business, is a business of solving problems, and yet the word innovation doesn't exist in diplomacy; it's all zero sum games and realpolitik and ancient institutions that have been there for generations and do things the same way they've always done things. And Independent Diplomat, today, tries to incorporate some of the things I learned at ?What If!. We all sit in one office and shout at each other across the office. We all work on little laptops and try to move desks to change the way we think. And we use naive experts who may know nothing about the countries we're dealing with, but may know something about something else to try to inject new thinking into the problems that we try to address for our clients. It's not easy, because our clients, by definition, are having a difficult time, diplomatically. There are, I don't know, some lessons from all of this, personal and political — and in a way, they're the same thing. The personal one is falling off a cliff is actually a good thing, and I recommend it. And it's a good thing to do at least once in your life just to tear everything up and jump. The second thing is a bigger lesson about the world today. Independent Diplomat is part of a trend which is emerging and evident across the world, which is that the world is fragmenting. States mean less than they used to, and the power of the state is declining. That means the power of others things is rising. Those other things are called non-state actors. They may be corporations, they may be mafiosi, they may be nice NGOs, they may anything, any number of things. We are living in a more complicated and fragmented world. If governments are less able to affect the problems that affect us in the world, then that means, who is left to deal with them, who has to take greater responsibility to deal with them? Us. If they can't do it, who's left to deal with it? We have no choice but to embrace that reality. What this means is it's no longer good enough to say that international relations, or global affairs, or chaos in Somalia, or what's going on in Burma is none of your business, and that you can leave it to governments to get on with. I can connect any one of you by six degrees of separation to the Al-Shabaab militia in Somalia. Ask me how later, particularly if you eat fish, interestingly enough, but that connection is there. We are all intimately connected. And this isn't just Tom Friedman, it's actually provable in case after case after case. What that means is, instead of asking your politicians to do things, you have to look to yourself to do things. And Independent Diplomat is a kind of example of this in a sort of loose way. There aren't neat examples, but one example is this: the way the world is changing is embodied in what's going on at the place I used to work — the U.N. Security Council. The U.N. was established in 1945. Its charter is basically designed to stop conflicts between states — interstate conflict. Today, 80 percent of the agenda of the U.N. Security Council is about conflicts within states, involving non-state parties — guerillas, separatists, terrorists, if you want to call them that, people who are not normal governments, who are not normal states. That is the state of the world today. When I realized this, and when I look back on my time at the Security Council and what happened with the Kosovars, and I realize that often the people who were most directly affected by what we were doing in the Security Council weren't actually there, weren't actually invited to give their views to the Security Council, I thought, this is wrong. Something's got to be done about this. So I started off in a traditional mode. Me and my colleagues at Independent Diplomat went around the U.N. Security Council. We went around 70 U.N. member states — the Kazaks, the Ethiopians, the Israelis — you name them, we went to see them — the secretary general, all of them, and said, ""This is all wrong. This is terrible that you don't consult these people who are actually affected. You've got to institutionalize a system where you actually invite the Kosovars to come and tell you what they think. This will allow you to tell me — you can tell them what you think. It'll be great. You can have an exchange. You can actually incorporate these people's views into your decisions, which means your decisions will be more effective and durable."" Super-logical, you would think. I mean, incredibly logical. So obvious, anybody could get it. And of course, everybody got it. Everybody went, ""Yes, of course, you're absolutely right. Come back to us in maybe six months."" And of course, nothing happened — nobody did anything. The Security Council does its business in exactly the same way today that it did X number of years ago, when I was there 10 years ago. So we looked at that observation of basically failure and thought, what can we do about it. And I thought, I'm buggered if I'm going to spend the rest of my life lobbying for these crummy governments to do what needs to be done. So what we're going to do is we're actually going to set up these meetings ourselves. So now, Independent Diplomat is in the process of setting up meetings between the U.N. Security Council and the parties to the disputes that are on the agenda of the Security Council. So we will be bringing Darfuri rebel groups, the Northern Cypriots and the Southern Cypriots, rebels from Aceh, and awful long laundry list of chaotic conflicts around the world. And we will be trying to bring the parties to New York to sit down in a quiet room in a private setting with no press and actually explain what they want to the members of the U. N. Security Council, and for the members of the U.N. Security Council to explain to them what they want. So there's actually a conversation, which has never before happened. And of course, describing all this, any of you who know politics will think this is incredibly difficult, and I entirely agree with you. The chances of failure are very high, but it certainly won't happen if we don't try to make it happen. And my politics has changed fundamentally from when I was a diplomat to what I am today, and I think that outputs is what matters, not process, not technology, frankly, so much either. Preach technology to all the Twittering members of all the Iranian demonstrations who are now in political prison in Tehran, where Ahmadinejad remains in power. Technology has not delivered political change in Iran. You've got to look at the outputs, and you got to say to yourself, ""What can I do to produce that particular output?"" That is the politics of the 21st century, and in a way, Independent Diplomat embodies that fragmentation, that change, that is happening to all of us. That's my story. Thanks."	"我的故事跟戰爭有點相關。是有關於夢想破滅。有關於死亡。也跟在破敗的環境中尋找理想有些關聯。也許，今天的這場演講是有關於如何應付在21世紀中的危機、和被我們搞砸的事情。我才不相信單純平順的故事。我才不相信在生命裡或歷史裡說做決定A就會導致結果B或是結果C，我們都聽過這種順利樂觀的故事，或許這能鼓勵我們彼此向前。但我相信生命是充滿隨機的，相信的理由是因為我會成為外交官就是個意外。我是個色盲。我生來就沒辦法看到大部分的色彩。這也就是為什麼我大多都穿著灰色或黑色的衣服，我還必須帶著我老婆陪我去買衣服。 當我還小的時候，我總夢想當戰鬥機駕駛員。我喜歡看著戰鬥機從我那鄉下的渡假小屋上空飆過的樣子。那就是我想成為戰鬥機駕駛員的原因。我曾經參加英國皇家空軍的駕駛員考試，沒意外的，我失敗了。因為我沒辦法辨識不同顏色的閃爍燈光，我沒辦法區分顏色。所以，我必須選擇別的職業，事實上，這對我而言就簡單多了，因為我從孩童時期，就對於國際關係非常有興趣。當我還小時，我幾乎把報紙都翻爛了。我深深對冷戰著迷，還有銷毀中短程核子飛彈的INF協商會議(Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces)還有蘇聯和美國之間在安哥拉或阿富汗的代理人戰爭(proxy war)。這些事情真的非常吸引我。所以我在很年輕的時候就決定要當外交官。所以，某天，我把這件事告訴我的父母，而我父親非常反對，我說：""爸，我想成為外交官""他面對我，然後說：""卡恩，你必須夠聰明才能當外交官阿""(笑)這讓我更確定了志向。 1989年，我進入英國外交部工作(British Foreign Service)。在那年，有5000人申請成為外交官，只有20人錄取。這個錄取人數意味著，我被歸納為精英的一份子，同時也進入一個迷人且令人振奮的世界。過去和今日相較，外交官是個超棒的工作，我超愛在裡面工作的分分秒秒。我享受著所有的事件。我給自己買了件高級西裝，穿著皮鞋準備陶醉於我在世界大事裡所能持有的特權。我曾到過加薩走廊(Gaza Strip)。我曾主持英國外交部裡面的中東和平進程部門。我也曾是英國外交祕書室的對外發言人。我曾和亞西爾-阿拉法特見過面。(註：巴勒斯坦領袖)我曾在聯合國會議上和海珊的外交官談判。後來，在塔利班倒台之後，我即前往阿富汗首都—喀布爾服務。我曾搭乘C-130軍用運輸機去跟躲藏在深山的軍事領袖會面，和他們討論有關如何剷除阿富汗境內的蓋達基地組織，當時有一批特種部隊當我的護衛，他們來自英國皇家海軍陸戰隊的一個排，因為當時的情況很危險。這超讓人興奮，太好玩了。真的很有意思。他們是菁英中的菁英，極度團結的一群人。 而最後，我職涯的最頂端是我被派駐到紐約的時候。在那之前我已經待過德國、挪威，許多不同的地方，我被派駐到紐約是以英國代表身分參加聯合國安全理事會。我負責的區域是中東，那同時也是我的專精處。我處理的事務有....像是中東和平流程，洛克比事件..(註：Lockerbie issue，發生蘇格蘭南端小鎮的事件)若各位想聽，我待會再來談這件事在安理會中，我負責伊拉克的事務它擁有龐大的毀滅性性武器，而聯合國決議制裁伊拉克以強迫它自行拆除這些武器。我成為這個專案裡面的英國談判代表，同時我也被這件事情所牽絆。總而言之，我的人生旅程，是非常刺激的。這是非常戲劇性的外交過程。當我在紐約駐守的時候我們就經歷過了許多戰爭事件。在2001年9月12日的安全理事會我代表英國與各國代表協商一份決議，內容是譴責在前一天的攻擊行為(註：911事件)，當然，這件事深深影響著我當時在紐約的生活情形。所以說我在紐約度過了最美好的時光，也有一些非常糟糕的回憶。我生活品質其實不錯。雖然我工作時數很長，不過我住在聯合廣場附近的閣樓。又是個在紐約的單身英國外交官，你大概可以想像到我會遭遇怎樣的事情。(笑)那時候是玩的很開心。 不過，在2002年，當我在紐約的任務即將結束時，我就決定，不接受一份在倫敦的工作。我決定來一次學術性的休假，我在新學院大學(New School)裡修業。有點說不太上來，我感覺到我的工作、我自己本身有些不對勁的地方。我累壞了，我突然醒悟了，但我沒辦法明確的說出為什麼。我決定暫時從工作中抽身。外交部也非常慷慨。他們告訴我，我能享有特別的無薪假，同時還可繼續享有部分的外交人員的權益，但不用作任何工作。真是令人愉快。最後，我決定接下一份臨時調派的任務，加入聯合國在關於科索沃事件的管理群。 這時候發生了2件事，就像剛才所提到的人生中的隨機性，因為這2件事情成為了改變我生命的支點，同時也幫助我思考人生的下一階段。完全出乎我的意料之外。第一件事，發生在2004年的夏天，英國政府，有點不情願地提出一份官方調查要調查開啟伊拉克戰爭的緣由，也就是當時關於大規模毀滅性武器的情報，一個非常機密的內容。我秘密地為這次調查作證。由於我過去對伊拉克的情報非常了解，還有它的大規模毀滅性武器，我在作證時說了3件事情：第一，政府過度誇大了情報內容，就從我過去所得知的內容來看。老實說，我們內部的調查資料內容非常清楚的指出，伊拉克持有的""大規模毀滅性武器""並沒有威脅到週遭鄰國，更不用說我們了。第二，政府忽略了所有戰爭以外的替代方案，從某些角度來看這非常的可恥。第三，我不要加入調查小組。無論如何，我這次出來作證，就等於是把我自己曝露在危機之下。而我正在這麼做。在我看來這次作證會危害到那些為了引起這次戰爭而捏造數據的同事和長官。 所以我也身處在危機中。這不是什麼好事。我開始感到悲嘆，也考慮了很久，我和長期陪著我受苦的妻子討論過後，最後，我決定辭去英國外交部的工作。我覺得，這場景就好像艾爾-帕西諾演的電影""驚爆內幕""一樣，電影裡，當CBS電視台決定停撥香菸公司內部人員的爆料節目後，男主角回到CBS公司，說：""我幹不下去了，這件事情有問題""。這情況跟我很像。我好愛這部電影。我就是感覺到有點不對勁。我就是沒辦法再跟外交部長坐在一起，或是再看到總理對著我微笑然後做出讓他們開心的事情。這就好像是準備要飛躍過懸岩邊緣一樣。 非常非常的令人不安，令人不愉快。我感到非常失落。直到今天，這股失落感還沒停止，我仍然處於一個低潮期。不過，一方面來看，我已經漸漸習慣了這種低潮。從另一方面來看，我挺喜歡這種感覺，喜歡的程度還勝過那種高高在上、能隨心所欲的時候。第二件事，發生在科索沃，那是一件..我需要喝點水，不好意思。第二件事，發生在科索沃，是關於追尋一個問題的答案，我真的不知道答案為何，這問題就是：我這一生到底做了什麼?我喜歡外交事務。我沒做過其他工作。我希望我的一生都做外交官，為我的國家服務。我希望能成為外交大使，我的導師，我心目中的英雄，這些人是我外交職涯中追尋的目標，現在我必須捨棄這一切。我有許多朋友在裡面工作。我的退休金還沒領。而這些我也都放棄了。所以，那時候發生了什麼事呢? 就在那年，在科索沃，我遇見了非常非常糟糕的事情。在2004年3月，有場非常恐怖的暴亂發生在科索沃的所有省份，當時有18個人被殺害。同時進入了無政府狀態。在無政府狀態下最可怕的事情，就是看到警察和軍隊....當時還有很多軍隊駐守，最可怕的，就是他們沒辦法阻止蜂擁到街上的狂亂暴民。阻止暴民繼續蜂擁到街上的唯一辦法就是等他們覺得燒殺擄掠已經做夠了他們才會停下來。這聽起來感覺就不是很好的過程，而我看到了。我經歷過這一切，我跟暴民接觸過。我試著阻止身邊阿爾巴尼亞裔的朋友，但都沒能成功。這場暴亂給了我一個啟示，不是很明顯，同時也是個很複雜的故事。 這場暴動會發生的其中一項原因，這場持續好幾天的暴動事件，是因為科索沃的人民認為他們未來的公民權被剝奪了。當時有一場針對科索沃未來的外交協商會議正在進行，而科索沃的自治政府，根本沒參予到這次的會議，更不用說科索沃的人民了。這一整個是感覺自我良好的外交體制，這是一場有關科索沃未來的協商會議，結果現場根本沒有科索沃的代表。這種奇怪的會議，讓他們感到非常失望。這場暴動有一部份就是這種失落感的宣洩。這件事情當然不是這麼單純的原因，人生也不是單純的故事。它其實是很複雜的，我無法假裝這件事情比表面上來的簡單。但這是其中一項重要的原因。 所以這給我了某種靈感，或更精確的來說，是給了我老婆某種靈感。她對我說：""你怎麼不給予科索沃的人建議呢?""""你怎麼不給科索沃政府的外交人員一些建議呢?""其實，科索沃是不被允許有外交單位的。他們不被允許有外交人員。他們不被允許有外國單位來幫助他們處理這極其複雜的科索沃最終定位(Final Status Process of Kosovo)。靈感就這樣來了。這就是獨立外交組織(Independent Diplomat)的最初構想，這是世界上第一個非營利的外交顧問團。這組織的起始點，就在我結束聯合國在科索沃的事件後，回到倫敦之時。當時我與科索沃的總理共用晚餐，並對他說：""嘿，我打算在外交事務上給予你協助，我對這些事情瞭若指掌，我有什麼不幫你的理由呢?""他舉起裝滿葡萄酒的杯子，並說：""卡恩，就拜託你了"" 所以我就前往科索沃並給予科索沃政府各種建言。獨立外交組織，最後連續協助了三任的柯索沃總理，同時也在科索沃黨派之間的協商給予協助。科索沃變得獨立起來。獨立外交組織，目前在全世界有5個外交中心，目前接受我們諮詢的有7、8個國家，或者說是政治團體，端看你怎麼去定義他們，我對此不太在意。我們給予北塞普勒斯人關於如何統一島嶼的建言。(註：土耳其南方的島嶼)我們給予緬甸在野黨建言(註：在野黨提倡民主化)，而蘇丹的南方政府..你可能是第一次聽到這個，蘇丹南方即將在數年內成立一個新國家。我們也給予西撒哈拉的波利薩里奧陣線(Polisario Front)建言，這游擊隊組織是為了奪回被摩洛哥侵占34年的地區。我們還為許多海島國家在氣候變遷談判會議中發聲，這會議就是不久前在哥本哈根結束的會議。 這其中還有一件意料外的事情發生了，因為，當我剛創立獨立外交組織時，我參加在英國上議院的某個聚會，一個荒謬可笑的地方，我像這樣拿著我的杯子，然後撞見了一位站在我後方的一位男士。我們開始聊天，他說........我有先跟他說我目前的事業，我隆重的告訴他我將在紐約成立獨立外交組織。當時現場只有我，而我和我老婆都即將前往紐約。然後這位男士說：""你何不跟我在紐約的同事見個面呢?""沒想到這個人是在一家創投公司工作，名為""這樣會怎樣(?What If!)""在場的各位可能聽過這家公司。事情就這樣接二連三的發生了，當我在開創獨立外交組織時，我在""這樣會怎樣""也有了一張辦公桌。我看到""這樣會怎樣""開發了箭牌口香糖的新口味，或是開發了可口可樂的新口味，實際上，這些事情也幫助我擬定科索沃、西薩哈拉居民的創新策略。我開始意識到，要做的事情應該要跟過去的外交工作不同，這種外交，就像經營企業一樣，我成立的是一種能解決問題的企業，而還未有名詞出現在這種外交的領域上，這會是一種零和賽局和現實政治(realpolitik)，在這古老的傳統外交機構中，我們一直在用同樣方式做事。 而今日，獨立外交組織，試著去兼併我在""這樣會怎樣""所學到的東西。我們會在同一個辦公室裡，然後對著彼此大叫。我們都用小筆電工作，不停換座位來激盪腦力。我們雇用沒經驗的員工，這些員工對這些國家的情況一無所知，但，也因此他們能為這些問題的解決方案注入新思維，而這正是我們希望傳達給顧客的。這並不容易，因為很明顯的，我們的客戶正在經歷外交上的艱困時刻。 在這裡..我不太清楚.....但我認為是有學到了一些有關人際和政治的東西，在某種程度上，是同一件事。在人際關係上我掉到了谷底我想這是件好事。這至少是在人生中唯一捨棄所有東西卻還有好處的一次。第二件事，是關於當今世界的重大議題。獨立外交組織是趨勢的一部份，是一種世界各地都顯而易見的趨勢，這趨勢就是，國家的分裂。國家的重要性已經不如以往，國家的力量正在衰弱。這意味著其他力量的抬頭。這種力量稱為非國家組織(non-state actors)。這種組織，也許是一家公司，也許是黑手黨，也許是個傑出的非營利組織。也許是任何型態的組織，或是任何一群人。我們目前生活在這個複雜而且又破碎的世界。如果政府沒辦法解決與我們息息相關的問題，那就得要問，誰要來應付這問題，誰願意擔負起處理這些問題的責任?就是我們。若政府做不到，誰還能做得到?我們別無選擇，只能接受這個事實。 這意味著我們不能再講說國際關係、全球事務、索馬利亞的混亂或是緬甸國內的事件等等，都不管你的事，然後講說這些都是可以丟給政府去處理的問題。透過六度分隔理論(任兩人，平均經過六人聯系就能扯上關係)，我能將在場的任何一位與索馬利亞的青年黨民兵作關係連結。可以待會再問我要怎麼辦到，若你有興趣的話，但這真的可以做到。我們彼此都有著密切的關係。不只是湯姆-傅萊德曼(Tom Friedman)透過一個又一個案例來陳述的現象。不該要求自己支持的政客去做什麼，而應該是端看自己能做到什麼。獨立外交組織就是這樣的一個組織自由的組織。 這樣的舉例有點糢糊，或許我該這樣講：世界正在改變，而我過去工作的機關也應該跟著改變，這機關就是聯合國安全理事會。聯合國在1945年成立。這組織的成立基礎章程就是要調停國與國之間的衝突，或是國內衝突。今日，在聯合國安全理事會裡有80%的討論議題都跟國與國之間的衝突有關，其中也包括了非國家團體的衝突事件，像是游擊隊，分離主義分子，恐怖分子，若你想這樣稱呼這些人的話，這些人都是非政府官員，也都是非正式的國家。這就是今日的世界。當我了解到這點時，我回頭看當時在安全理事會的時光，還有在科索沃所發生的事件，我感覺到這些團體最直接被影響的來源是，那些我們在安全理事會的所做所為，他們不在安理會會議現場，他們沒被邀請到會議現場陳述意見，我認為，這是錯的。必須針對這點做些什麼。 所以，一開始我們還是依循傳統的模式。我和我的同事造訪了聯合國安全理事會。我們造訪了理事會裡的70個會員國，哈薩克人，衣索比亞人，以色列人像是這些人，我們和這些國家的秘書長會面，說：""現在的方式是錯的，你們不諮詢那些真正會被你們政策影響的人，實在是太糟糕了。你們必須建立一套機制讓科索沃地區的人民能夠來到這裡頃訴他們的想法。這同樣也能讓這些人民直接聽到你的想法。這樣很棒阿。你們之間能有意見交換。你們還能將這些人的意見併入你們決策中，這表示你們的決策會更有效和影響力更久。""完美的邏輯。我是說，這麼棒的邏輯，很明顯的，誰都想的到。當然，任何人都懂。聽完的人都這樣講：""是的，當然，你是對的。不如，6個月後你再回到這裡一起討論""結果，當然什麼事都沒發生。根本沒人這樣做。當我十年前在這裡工作的時候，安全理事會就一直使用著不知道幾百年前的做事方法。 當我注意到這根本上的錯誤時，我就開始思考，我能做點什麼。而我又想到若我將我的餘生都耗在遊說這些政府去做該做的事情，那我會累死。所以我們目前正在做的就是建立各式各樣的見面會談。現在的獨立外交組織就是創造會談機會，讓安全理事會和那些在理事會議程上受討論的群體能互相見面對話。我們帶來了達佛反政府組織(註：蘇丹西部的組織)，北塞普勒斯人和南塞普勒斯人，來自阿契地區(Archey)的叛軍，這些是全世界造成混亂衝突的團體名單。我們會試著把這些團體帶到紐約，準備一個安靜的房間提供一場沒有媒體的面談，讓這些團體能訴說他們想對聯合國安理會成員講的話，對於安理會的成員來說他們也能傳達自己的立場。這會是一場對話，這種對話是過去從未發生的。當然，剛剛所描述的場景，在場只要稍微懂政治的都知道這超難做到，我完全同意這種想法。失敗的機率非常高，但若不去嘗試，這件事情就永遠不會發生。 從我當外交官開始，到現在為止的這段期間，我對政治的觀點就已經完全改變了，事件的結果才是最重要的，不是過程，坦白說，也不需要高深技術。傳達新觀念的科技像是那些使用推特(Twitter)的伊朗示威者現在都已經成為政治犯，被關在由總統内賈德(Ahmadinejad)掌權的首都德黑蘭。科技不會傳達伊朗地區的政治變革。你必須專注於結果，同時要捫心自問：""我要怎麼做才能有這樣不同的結果?""這是21世紀的政治環境。從這點來看，獨立外交組織就是要呈現出那些圍繞在我們身邊的那些片段和變革。 這就是我的故事，謝謝各位。"
