Talk	en	zh-tw
caroline_phillips_hurdy_gurdy_for_beginners	"Now, since this is TEDGlobal, who can tell me what this is called in French? I see you're all up on the history of hurdy-gurdy — ""vielle à roue."" And in Spanish, ""zanfona."" And in Italian, ""ghironda,"" okay? Hurdy-gurdy, or wheel fiddle. So, these are the different kinds and shapes of the hurdy-gurdy. The hurdy-gurdy is the only musical instrument that uses a crank to turn a wheel to rub strings, like the bow of a violin, to produce music. It has three different kinds of strings. The first string is the drone string, which plays a continuous sound like the bagpipe. The second string is a melody string, which is played with a wooden keyboard tuned like a piano. And the third string is pretty innovative. It's also the only instrument that uses this kind of technique. It activates what's called the buzzing bridge, or the dog. When I turn the crank and I apply pressure, it makes a sound like a barking dog. So all of this is pretty innovative, if you consider that the hurdy-gurdy appeared about a thousand years ago and it took two people to play it; one to turn the crank, and another person — yes — to play the melody by physically pulling up large wooden pegs. Luckily, all of this changed a couple of centuries later. So, one person could actually play and almost — this is pretty heavy — carry the hurdy-gurdy. The hurdy-gurdy has been used, historically, through the centuries in mostly dance music because of the uniqueness of the melody combined with the acoustic boombox here. And today, the hurdy-gurdy is used in all sorts of music — traditional folk music, dance, contemporary and world music — in the U.K., in France, in Spain and in Italy. And this kind of hurdy-gurdy takes anywhere from three to five years [to order and receive it]. It's made by specialized luthiers, also in Europe. And it's very difficult to tune. So without further ado, would you like to hear it? (Audience: Yes.) Caroline Phillips: I didn't hear you. Would you like to hear it? (Audience: Yes!) CP: Okay. There I go. I'd like to sing in Basque, which is the language spoken in the Basque Country where I live, in the region in France and Spain. (Music) [Basque] (Music) Thank you. (Applause) This is a song that I wrote based on traditional Basque rhythms. And this is a song that has a kind of a Celtic feel. (Music) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"既然這裡是TED全球講壇，誰能告訴我，這種樂器在法文裡，叫做什麼？我看大家都準備好要聽手搖風琴的歷史了。法語是""Vielle à roue.""西班牙語叫作 ""zanfona.""義大利文是""ghironda""。手搖風琴也叫做絞弦琴。 現在看到的是不同樣子和形狀的手搖風琴。手搖風琴是唯一一種用長柄轉動轉輪，就像是小提琴的弓ㄧ樣摩擦琴弦而發出聲音。手搖風琴有三種弦，第一種是低音弦，可以持續發出像蘇格蘭風笛一樣的聲音。第二種是旋律弦，用木頭琴鍵彈奏，就像彈鋼琴一樣。第三種還蠻創新的，它是唯一一種，用這種技巧演奏的樂器。它會帶動響橋，也叫做狗。當我這樣轉動就會給它施加壓力，手搖風琴就會發出像狗叫一樣的聲音，像吧？這些全都很有創意！如果你仔細想想，手搖風琴大約是一千年前的樂器，那時候兩個人才能彈奏。一個轉動長柄，另一個呢？沒錯！彈奏樂曲．這個人得要拉起這些大的木頭弦栓．還好，這些在幾百年前就改變了．現在，大概一個人就能搞定了。但是一個人拿的話，其實還是挺重的． 傳統上，手搖風琴在幾個世紀以來，大部份都用來演奏舞曲因為它旋律的獨特性，再加上這邊的音箱，很適合演奏舞曲。現在，手搖風琴可以用在所有不同種類的音樂裡。不管是傳統民俗音樂舞曲、現代或是世界音樂—在英國、法國、西班牙跟義大利的音樂裡都用上了。我手上這種手搖風琴，從訂做到拿到成品要花三到五年。因為這是由非常專門的製琴師製做的。在歐洲也一樣。演奏手搖風琴真的很難調音。 好了，那我不多說了。你們要聽聽看嗎？ 要！ 太小聲了！我聽不見．大家要聽嗎？ 好！我要彈囉！我要用巴斯克語演唱。這是我家鄉的語言。巴斯克郡在法國跟西班牙的交界。 (音樂) [巴斯克語] (音樂) 謝謝大家。 (掌聲) 我做的首曲子靈感來自巴斯克傳統的旋律。像這樣的曲子就有些塞爾特民族的味道。 (音樂) 謝謝你們。 (掌聲)"
