Talk	en	zh-tw
caroline_casey_looking_past_limits	"Can any of you remember what you wanted to be when you were 17? Do you know what I wanted to be? I wanted to be a biker chick. (Laughter) I wanted to race cars, and I wanted to be a cowgirl, and I wanted to be Mowgli from ""The Jungle Book."" Because they were all about being free, the wind in your hair — just to be free. And on my seventeenth birthday, my parents, knowing how much I loved speed, gave me one driving lesson for my seventeenth birthday. Not that we could have afforded I drive, but to give me the dream of driving. And on my seventeenth birthday, I accompanied my little sister in complete innocence, as I always had all my life — my visually impaired sister — to go to see an eye specialist. Because big sisters are always supposed to support their little sisters. And my little sister wanted to be a pilot — God help her. So I used to get my eyes tested just for fun. And on my seventeenth birthday, after my fake eye exam, the eye specialist just noticed it happened to be my birthday. And he said, ""So what are you going to do to celebrate?"" And I took that driving lesson, and I said, ""I'm going to learn how to drive."" And then there was a silence — one of those awful silences when you know something's wrong. And he turned to my mother, and he said, ""You haven't told her yet?"" On my seventeenth birthday, as Janis Ian would best say, I learned the truth at 17. I am, and have been since birth, legally blind. And you know, how on earth did I get to 17 and not know that? Well, if anybody says country music isn't powerful, let me tell you this: I got there because my father's passion for Johnny Cash and a song, ""A Boy Named Sue."" I'm the eldest of three. I was born in 1971. And very shortly after my birth, my parents found out I had a condition called ocular albinism. And what the hell does that mean to you? So let me just tell you, the great part of all of this? I can't see this clock and I can't see the timing, so holy God, woohoo! (Laughter) I might buy some more time. But more importantly, let me tell you — I'm going to come up really close here. Don't freak out, Pat. Hey. See this hand? Beyond this hand is a world of Vaseline. Every man in this room, even you, Steve, is George Clooney. (Laughter) And every woman, you are so beautiful. And when I want to look beautiful, I step three feet away from the mirror, and I don't have to see these lines etched in my face from all the squinting I've done all my life from all the dark lights. The really strange part is that, at three and a half, just before I was going to school, my parents made a bizarre, unusual and incredibly brave decision. No special needs schools. No labels. No limitations. My ability and my potential. And they decided to tell me that I could see. So just like Johnny Cash's Sue, a boy given a girl's name, I would grow up and learn from experience how to be tough and how to survive, when they were no longer there to protect me, or just take it all away. But more significantly, they gave me the ability to believe, totally, to believe that I could. And so when I heard that eye specialist tell me all the things, a big fat ""no,"" everybody imagines I was devastated. And don't get me wrong, because when I first heard it — aside from the fact that I thought he was insane — I got that thump in my chest, just that ""huh?"" But very quickly I recovered. It was like that. The first thing I thought about was my mom, who was crying over beside me. And I swear to God, I walked out of his office, ""I will drive. I will drive. You're mad. I'll drive. I know I can drive."" And with the same dogged determination that my father had bred into me since I was such a child — he taught me how to sail, knowing I could never see where I was going, I could never see the shore, and I couldn't see the sails, and I couldn't see the destination. But he told me to believe and feel the wind in my face. And that wind in my face made me believe that he was mad and I would drive. And for the next 11 years, I swore nobody would ever find out that I couldn't see, because I didn't want to be a failure, and I didn't want to be weak. And I believed I could do it. So I rammed through life as only a Casey can do. And I was an archeologist, and then I broke things. And then I managed a restaurant, and then I slipped on things. And then I was a masseuse. And then I was a landscape gardener. And then I went to business school. And you know, disabled people are hugely educated. And then I went in and I got a global consulting job with Accenture. And they didn't even know. And it's extraordinary how far belief can take you. In 1999, two and a half years into that job, something happened. Wonderfully, my eyes decided, enough. And temporarily, very unexpectedly, they dropped. And I'm in one of the most competitive environments in the world, where you work hard, play hard, you gotta be the best, you gotta be the best. And two years in, I really could see very little. And I found myself in front of an HR manager in 1999, saying something I never imagined that I would say. I was 28 years old. I had built a persona all around what I could and couldn't do. And I simply said, ""I'm sorry. I can't see, and I need help."" Asking for help can be incredibly difficult. And you all know what it is. You don't need to have a disability to know that. We all know how hard it is to admit weakness and failure. And it's frightening, isn't it? But all that belief had fueled me so long. And can I tell you, operating in the sighted world when you can't see, it's kind of difficult — it really is. Can I tell you, airports are a disaster. Oh, for the love of God. And please, any designers out there? OK, designers, please put up your hands, even though I can't even see you. I always end up in the gents' toilets. And there's nothing wrong with my sense of smell. But can I just tell you, the little sign for a gents' toilet or a ladies' toilet is determined by a triangle. Have you ever tried to see that if you have Vaseline in front of your eyes? It's such a small thing, right? And you know how exhausting it can be to try to be perfect when you're not, or to be somebody that you aren't? And so after admitting I couldn't see to HR, they sent me off to an eye specialist. And I had no idea that this man was going to change my life. But before I got to him, I was so lost. I had no idea who I was anymore. And that eye specialist, he didn't bother testing my eyes. God no, it was therapy. And he asked me several questions, of which many were, ""Why? Why are you fighting so hard not to be yourself? And do you love what you do, Caroline?"" And you know, when you go to a global consulting firm, they put a chip in your head, and you're like, ""I love Accenture. I love Accenture. I love my job. I love Accenture. I love Accenture. I love Accenture. I love my job. I love Accenture."" (Laughter) To leave would be failure. And he said, ""Do you love it?"" I couldn't even speak I was so choked up. I just was so — how do I tell him? And then he said to me, ""What did you want to be when you were little?"" Now listen, I wasn't going to say to him, ""Well, I wanted to race cars and motorbikes."" Hardly appropriate at this moment in time. He thought I was mad enough anyway. And as I left his office, he called me back and he said, ""I think it's time. I think it's time to stop fighting and do something different."" And that door closed. And that silence just outside a doctor's office, that many of us know. And my chest ached. And I had no idea where I was going. I had no idea. But I did know the game was up. And I went home, and, because the pain in my chest ached so much, I thought, ""I'll go out for a run."" Really not a very sensible thing to do. And I went on a run that I know so well. I know this run so well, by the back of my hand. I always run it perfectly fine. I count the steps and the lampposts and all those things that visually impaired people have a tendency to have a lot of meetings with. And there was a rock that I always missed. And I'd never fallen on it, never. And there I was crying away, and smash, bash on my rock. Broken, fallen over on this rock in the middle of March in 2000, typical Irish weather on a Wednesday — gray, snot, tears everywhere, ridiculously self-pitying. And I was floored, and I was broken, and I was angry. And I didn't know what to do. And I sat there for quite some time going, ""How am I going to get off this rock and go home? Because who am I going to be? What am I going to be?"" And I thought about my dad, and I thought, ""Good God, I'm so not Sue now."" And I kept thinking over and over in my mind, what had happened? Where did it go wrong? Why didn't I understand? And you know, the extraordinary part of it is I just simply had no answers. I had lost my belief. Look where my belief had brought me to. And now I had lost it. And now I really couldn't see. I was crumpled. And then I remember thinking about that eye specialist asking me, ""What do you want to be? What do you want to be? What did you want to be when you were little? Do you love what you do? Do something different. What do you want to be? Do something different. What do you want to be?"" And really slowly, slowly, slowly, it happened. And it did happen this way. And then the minute it came, it blew up in my head and bashed in my heart — something different. ""Well, how about Mowgli from 'The Jungle Book'? You don't get more different than that."" And the moment, and I mean the moment, the moment that hit me, I swear to God, it was like woo hoo! You know — something to believe in. And nobody can tell me no. Yes, you can say I can't be an archeologist. But you can't tell me, no, I can't be Mowgli, because guess what? Nobody's ever done it before, so I'm going to go do it. And it doesn't matter whether I'm a boy or a girl, I'm just going to scoot. And so I got off that rock, and, oh my God, did I run home. And I sprinted home, and I didn't fall, and I didn't crash. And I ran up the stairs, and there was one of my favorite books of all time, ""Travels on My Elephant"" by Mark Shand — I don't know if any of you know it. And I grabbed this book off, and I'm sitting on the couch going, ""I know what I'm going to do. I know how to be Mowgli. I'm going to go across India on the back of an elephant. I'm going to be an elephant handler."" And I had no idea how I was going to be an elephant handler. From global management consultant to elephant handler. I had no idea how. I had no idea how you hire an elephant, get an elephant. I didn't speak Hindi. I'd never been to India. Hadn't a clue. But I knew I would. Because, when you make a decision at the right time and the right place, God, that universe makes it happen for you. Nine months later, after that day on snot rock, I had the only blind date in my life with a seven and a half foot elephant called Kanchi. And together we would trek a thousand kilometers across India. (Applause) The most powerful thing of all, it's not that I didn't achieve before then. Oh my God, I did. But you know, I was believing in the wrong thing. Because I wasn't believing in me, really me, all the bits of me — all the bits of all of us. Do you know how much of us all pretend to be somebody we're not? And you know what, when you really believe in yourself and everything about you, it's extraordinary what happens. And you know what, that trip, that thousand kilometers, it raised enough money for 6,000 cataract eye operations. Six thousand people got to see because of that. When I came home off that elephant, do you know what the most amazing part was? I chucked in my job at Accenture. I left, and I became a social entrepreneur, and I set up an organization with Mark Shand called Elephant Family, which deals with Asian elephant conservation. And I set up Kanchi, because my organization was always going to be named after my elephant, because disability is like the elephant in the room. And I wanted to make you see it in a positive way — no charity, no pity. But I wanted to work only and truly with business and media leadership to totally reframe disability in a way that was exciting and possible. It was extraordinary. That's what I wanted to do. And I never thought about noes anymore, or not seeing, or any of that kind of nothing. It just seemed that it was possible. And you know, the oddest part is, when I was on my way traveling here to TED, I'll be honest, I was petrified. And I speak, but this is an amazing audience, and what am I doing here? But as I was traveling here, you'll be very happy to know, I did use my white symbol stick cane, because it's really good to skip queues in the airport. And I got my way here being happily proud that I couldn't see. And the one thing is that a really good friend of mine, he texted me on the way over, knowing I was scared. Even though I present confident, I was scared. He said, ""Be you."" And so here I am. This is me, all of me. (Applause) And I have learned, you know what, cars and motorbikes and elephants, that's not freedom. Being absolutely true to yourself is freedom. And I never needed eyes to see — never. I simply needed vision and belief. And if you truly believe — and I mean believe from the bottom of your heart — you can make change happen. And we need to make it happen, because every single one of us — woman, man, gay, straight, disabled, perfect, normal, whatever — everyone of us must be the very best of ourselves. I no longer want anybody to be invisible. We all have to be included. And stop with the labels, the limiting. Losing of labels, because we are not jam jars. We are extraordinary, different, wonderful people. Thank you. (Applause)"	"請問在座每個人還能夠想起在你17歲的時候想要成為什麼樣的人嗎?你知道我想要成為什麼嗎?我想成為一位飛車騎士(笑聲)我想要賽車我想要成為一名女牛仔以及成為""森林王子""裡的莫格利因為他們都渴望自由享受風輕拂著頭髮，就是要自由在我17歲的生日時我的父母知道我有多熱愛速度於是給我上了駕駛這門課當作我17歲的生日禮物這不代表家裡負擔的起我開車只是純粹給了我這個夢想 在我17歲生日時我陪同我的小妹用我一向天真的想法陪我視障的妹妹去看眼科醫師因為做姊姊的總是得支持他們的妹妹我的小妹想要成為一名飛行師但願上帝幫助她我之前定期做眼科檢查單純是為了好玩在我17歲生日做完假的眼科檢查之後眼科醫生注意到這天是我的生日他說:""你打算怎麼慶祝生日""?那時我拿到了駕照於是我說:""我要去學開車""在我說完這話一片寂靜一種令你感覺不對勁的沉默然後醫生轉向我母親他說了:""你還沒告訴她嗎""?在我17歲生日如同賈尼斯伊恩說得好我在17歲時發現了真相原來打從出生時我就領有視障手冊 你們知道嗎我究竟是如何活到17歲的而且還完全不知情的？如果有人說鄉村音樂不好讓我告訴你這個反證吧我之所以不知情是因為我父親對Johnny Cash的熱愛Johnny Cash的一首歌叫""A Boy Named Sue.""我在家中三個小孩排行最大。我在1971年出生在我出生後不久我的父母發現我有眼疾－視覺上的白化症這是什麼?讓我告訴你，這最大的問題是什麽?我看不見這個時鐘也看不見現在幾點我的天阿，嗚呼!也許我能多待點時間但讓我告訴你們更重要的是我將很快進入話題，別緊張嘿看到這隻手了嗎?在這隻手的背後是一片模糊的視界在場的每一個人,甚至是你,史蒂夫都是喬治克魯尼(笑聲)以及每一位女性，你們是如此的美麗當我想要變漂亮時，便退後三呎看著鏡子我便無法去看到我臉上因長久以來在黑暗中我瞇著眼睛去看而產生的細紋 特別的是在我三歲半準備去上學時我的父母做了一個不合常理又非常勇敢的決定我不去殘障學校我不用貼上任何標籤對我的能力以及潛力沒有任何限制他們決定告訴我我看得見就如同Johnny Cash歌裡的Sue一位被給予女孩名字的男孩我會長大並且從各個經驗中學習要如何堅強以及如何生存當他們都不在我身旁保護我的時候或者一切都被帶走時要如何生存但是更重要的是他們賦予我去相信的能力完完全全的相信我所能做的所以當我聽到眼科醫生說當他告訴我事情的真相，一個從裡到外的一聲""不""每個人都覺得我會一蹶不振但別誤會了，起先聽到時我只覺得醫生瘋了我的心被敲了一下發出一聲""啊""但很快地我沒事了。就如同上述所言。我想到的第一件事是我母親在我身旁激動得哭泣然後我對上帝發誓，並且離開他的辦公室""我能開車，一定能開車你瘋了。我一定可以開車的，我知道我可以"" 抱持著一個從小到大頑強的決心那就是從小我父親陪育我的觀念他教會了我怎麼航海即便知道我完全看不到方向，也看不見海岸以及看不見帆，也看不見目的地但是他告訴我要相信去感受微風輕拂我的臉頰而那輕拂我臉頰的微風讓我相信我絕對能開車然而在往後的11年我發誓不讓人發現我看不見因為我一點都不想成為一名輸家而且我也不想要成為弱者我相信我能做到所以我過著一種凱西能做到的生活我做過考古學家，我打破了文物我管理過一間餐廳，我還打破盤子我做過按摩師，我也作過景觀園藝師然後我去上了商業學校殘障人士受非常多的教育後來我得到了一個全球諮詢性的工作—在埃森哲股份有限公司而且連他們也不知道信念帶著我走這麼遠真的很神奇 在1999年得到這個工作的兩年之後精彩的事情發生了我的眼睛決定罷工了是暫時性的非常異想不到地它們罷工了而我卻在當時世界上最具競爭力的環境之下需要非常努力的工作，而且不擇手段，必須要做到最好過了兩年我確實只能看見一點點我走到了一位人力資源的經理面前在這時是1999年並說出一些我從沒沒想過會說出的話我那時28嵗我一直在做得到與做不到之間掙扎逞強我就只說很抱歉我看不見，請給我點幫助向人要求協助真的很難你們應該都能了解，而這並不需要身患殘疾才能體會大家都知道承認自己的軟弱和失敗有多難這是很令人驚恐的，對吧但我的信念卻支持了我這麼久 當你看不見，卻得在這依賴雙眼的世界工作時這確實很困難跟你們說，機場真是恐怖的地方噢！我敬愛的上帝請問有設計師在場嗎？麻煩舉個手，雖然我不一定看得見我常常進到男生廁所我的嗅覺是完全沒問題的但是我可以跟你說男女廁的小標誌得靠下面的三角形裙襬來分別你是否曾經試過當你眼前有一層凡士林的時候來看那會真的小到令人看不見，對吧而當你並不完美，卻渴求變的完美或者變成你想成為的對象這真的很累 而在向經理承認我看不見之後我被送去看眼科醫師當時我還不知道他會是改變我一生的人在去看醫生之前，我非常低落我對於自己感到迷惘而這眼科醫師，他根本懶得檢查我的眼睛喔不，那是心理治療他問了我一些問題而問題通常是＂為什麼？＂為什麼你要這麼拚命地抗拒自己的條件限制？你所做的是你喜愛做的嗎，卡洛琳？你知道當你去了一家全球諮詢公司他們將一片晶片放進你的頭，而你會說＂我愛埃森哲，我愛我的工作，我愛埃森哲我愛埃森哲，我愛我的工作，我愛埃森哲＂離開的人就輸了他問我＂你喜歡這樣嗎＂我當下真是激動得答不出話來我只是……該怎麼說呢接著他說＂你小時候想成為什麼？＂我不想對他說＂我想成為賽車手和摩托車手＂在當時的情境很不適合反正他應該覺得我滿瘋的在我離開他辦公室時他叫住了我他說＂我認為時候到了該是時候不要再抗拒，去做點別的事吧＂接著門就關上了門外就只剩下一陣寂靜之後像大家知道的我的胸口痛起來了我不知道我何去何從，我真的不知道我只覺得一切結束了 於是我回到家，而胸口真的很痛我想著＂去外頭跑一下好了＂這不是什麼明智之舉我去跑我非常熟悉的路綫我閉著眼都可以跑的路綫我總是跑得很好我數著步伐、路燈等事物這些都是視障人士比較容易看到的而那邊有個石頭我總是能避開我從來沒被絆倒過我邊哭邊跑結果卻用力地撞在石頭上我很慘地摔倒了就在這石頭上當時是2000年的三月中典型愛爾蘭天氣的星期三到處都灰灰的，而我涕淚縱橫可笑地自艾自憐 我非常的失望及挫折而且生氣因為我不知道該做什麼好我就在那邊坐了好一段時間＂我要怎麼離開這塊石頭然後回家？而我想成為什麼人究竟我想成為什麼人於是我想到了我的父親我就想＂天啊，我已經不是Sue了＂我不斷反覆思索著到底怎麼了？我哪裡做錯了？我怎還看不透？而最特別的是這些我都想不到答案我的信念已完全消失了看看我的信念帶給我的成就但現在我已失去它，而我也已經看不見我開始抱頭痛哭然後我突然想到那眼科醫師他曾問我的問題＂你想成為什麼？你小時候想變成什麼人？你喜歡你現在做的嗎？做點別的事吧！你想做些什麼事？做點別的事吧！你究竟想做什麼事？＂就這樣慢慢地，慢慢地事情發生了在這種情況下發生了就在事情發生的時候我的腦袋就像爆炸了然後它衝進我心裡不一樣的事是吧＂嗯，森林王子裡的莫格利，怎麼樣＂？不會有比這更不一樣的了在這一刻我指我想通的這一刻我向上帝發誓太棒了！我有可以相信的事而且沒有人能否定我的想法是啊，你可以說我不能成為考古學家但你不能說我不能成為莫格利，知道為什麼嗎因為這是空前的，而我打算去嘗試不管我是男是女，我就是要去試 然後我就離開那塊石頭，天啊！我又跑回家了我全力衝回家，都沒摔倒，也沒撞到東西了接著我跑到樓上，那裏有本我最愛的書Mark Shand寫的＂在象背上的旅行＂不知道有人聽過嗎我就拿起這本書坐到沙發上接著＂我知道我要怎麼做了我知道要怎變成莫格利了我要騎在大象背上穿越印度我要變成大象騎士＂雖然我並不知道要怎變成大象騎士從全球管理顧問變成大象騎士我不知道該怎麼去雇用大象，取得一隻大象我也不會說印度語，甚至沒去過印度，根本毫無頭緒但是我卻知道我可以因為當在正確的時候正確的地方所做的決定上天會幫你達成目標 距離在石頭上痛哭那天的九個月後我有了人生的第一次“盲人摸象”約會對方是個七呎半高的大象，叫Kanchi之後我們一起跋涉了一千公里路途穿越了印度（掌聲）最棒的事情並不是我之前從沒做過。而是，喔天啊！我辦到了各位知道，過去我所相信的是錯的因為我相信的不是我自己不是真正的我，不是自己的每一部分以及大家的每一部分你知道有多少人不是在作自己嗎你知道嗎，當你相信自己的全部時一定會有神奇的事情發生 你知道嗎，那一千公里的路途籌到的募款足夠我做6000次白内障手術6000個人或許能因此重見天日而當我離開Kanchi時你知道最不可思議的是什麼嗎我辭去了在埃森哲的工作我離開了，而我成為了社會企業家我跟Mark Shand成立一個機構＂Elephant Family＂主要在處理亞洲大象的保育工作接著我又成立叫＂Kanchi＂的機構因為我喜歡用我的大象的名字命名而殘障人士就像房間裡的大象一樣我希望大家能用正面積極的眼光來看待而不是施捨、憐憫我真正想做的是結合商業及媒體的號召力用振奮人心以及可行的方式重建殘障人士的社會價值這很語發驚人吧這就是我所要做的我不曾再想過其他事情，想我看不見或其他瑣碎的事反正就是覺得這可行 你知道嗎，最奇特的是在我要到TED來的路上老實說，我嚇呆了我要演講但這邊有這麼棒的聽眾那我來這裡做什麽但當我要來這裡時知道這件事大家應該會很高興我還是用了我的白色手杖它讓我在機場免於排隊我到這裡來了同時還對看不見這件事有幾分自豪。對了，有一個很好的朋友他知道我會驚恐所以發了個簡訊給我儘管我看起來很有自信，但多少還是會害怕他說＂做自己就好＂因此我到這裡來了這就是我，全部的我 （掌聲） 而我也學到了，你知道嗎汽車、摩托車和大象這些不代表自由做真實的自己，才是真正的自由而我並不需要眼睛來看世界，真的不需要我只需要夢想跟信念如果你能真的相信打從內心深處地相信你就可以讓改變發生而且我們必須讓改變發生因為我們每一個人女人，男人，同性戀，異性戀殘障的，完好無缺的普通人，不管怎樣每一個人一定要當最棒的自己我希望每個人都可以被看的見都可以是世界的一份子不要再貼標籤，做限制甩掉那些標籤吧因為我們不是果醬罐子大家都是與眾不同、精彩絕倫的人 謝謝 （掌聲）"
