Talk	en	zh-tw
carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve	"The power of yet. I heard about a high school in Chicago where students had to pass a certain number of courses to graduate, and if they didn't pass a course, they got the grade ""Not Yet."" And I thought that was fantastic, because if you get a failing grade, you think, I'm nothing, I'm nowhere. But if you get the grade ""Not Yet"", you understand that you're on a learning curve. It gives you a path into the future. ""Not Yet"" also gave me insight into a critical event early in my career, a real turning point. I wanted to see how children coped with challenge and difficulty, so I gave 10-year-olds problems that were slightly too hard for them. Some of them reacted in a shockingly positive way. They said things like, ""I love a challenge,"" or, ""You know, I was hoping this would be informative."" They understood that their abilities could be developed. They had what I call a growth mindset. But other students felt it was tragic, catastrophic. From their more fixed mindset perspective, their intelligence had been up for judgment, and they failed. Instead of luxuriating in the power of yet, they were gripped in the tyranny of now. So what do they do next? I'll tell you what they do next. In one study, they told us they would probably cheat the next time instead of studying more if they failed a test. In another study, after a failure, they looked for someone who did worse than they did so they could feel really good about themselves. And in study after study, they have run from difficulty. Scientists measured the electrical activity from the brain as students confronted an error. On the left, you see the fixed-mindset students. There's hardly any activity. They run from the error. They don't engage with it. But on the right, you have the students with the growth mindset, the idea that abilities can be developed. They engage deeply. Their brain is on fire with yet. They engage deeply. They process the error. They learn from it and they correct it. How are we raising our children? Are we raising them for now instead of yet? Are we raising kids who are obsessed with getting As? Are we raising kids who don't know how to dream big dreams? Their biggest goal is getting the next A, or the next test score? And are they carrying this need for constant validation with them into their future lives? Maybe, because employers are coming to me and saying, ""We have already raised a generation of young workers who can't get through the day without an award."" So what can we do? How can we build that bridge to yet? Here are some things we can do. First of all, we can praise wisely, not praising intelligence or talent. That has failed. Don't do that anymore. But praising the process that kids engage in, their effort, their strategies, their focus, their perseverance, their improvement. This process praise creates kids who are hardy and resilient. There are other ways to reward yet. We recently teamed up with game scientists from the University of Washington to create a new online math game that rewarded yet. In this game, students were rewarded for effort, strategy and progress. The usual math game rewards you for getting answers right, right now, but this game rewarded process. And we got more effort, more strategies, more engagement over longer periods of time, and more perseverance when they hit really, really hard problems. Just the words ""yet"" or ""not yet,"" we're finding, give kids greater confidence, give them a path into the future that creates greater persistence. And we can actually change students' mindsets. In one study, we taught them that every time they push out of their comfort zone to learn something new and difficult, the neurons in their brain can form new, stronger connections, and over time, they can get smarter. Look what happened: In this study, students who were not taught this growth mindset continued to show declining grades over this difficult school transition, but those who were taught this lesson showed a sharp rebound in their grades. We have shown this now, this kind of improvement, with thousands and thousands of kids, especially struggling students. So let's talk about equality. In our country, there are groups of students who chronically underperform, for example, children in inner cities, or children on Native American reservations. And they've done so poorly for so long that many people think it's inevitable. But when educators create growth mindset classrooms steeped in yet, equality happens. And here are just a few examples. In one year, a kindergarten class in Harlem, New York scored in the 95th percentile on the national achievement test. Many of those kids could not hold a pencil when they arrived at school. In one year, fourth-grade students in the South Bronx, way behind, became the number one fourth-grade class in the state of New York on the state math test. In a year, to a year and a half, Native American students in a school on a reservation went from the bottom of their district to the top, and that district included affluent sections of Seattle. So the Native kids outdid the Microsoft kids. This happened because the meaning of effort and difficulty were transformed. Before, effort and difficulty made them feel dumb, made them feel like giving up, but now, effort and difficulty, that's when their neurons are making new connections, stronger connections. That's when they're getting smarter. I received a letter recently from a 13-year-old boy. He said, ""Dear Professor Dweck, I appreciate that your writing is based on solid scientific research, and that's why I decided to put it into practice. I put more effort into my schoolwork, into my relationship with my family, and into my relationship with kids at school, and I experienced great improvement in all of those areas. I now realize I've wasted most of my life."" Let's not waste any more lives, because once we know that abilities are capable of such growth, it becomes a basic human right for children, all children, to live in places that create that growth, to live in places filled with ""yet"". Thank you. (Applause)"	「還沒」的力量。 我聽說芝加哥有一所高中，學生必須過了一定數量的必修課才能畢業，如果他們有某門課沒過，那門成績就打成「還沒過」。我認為這超棒的，因為如果你當了，你就會想，我真沒用，一事無成。但是如果你的成績寫的是「還沒過」，你知道你還在學習中。它給你一條生路。 「還沒」也讓我在早期職業生涯中對一件很關鍵的事有深入的了解，一個真正的轉捩點。那時我想知道孩童如何應付挑戰與困難，所以我給十歲的孩童一些有點超齡的問題。有些孩童的反應驚人之積極。他們會說像是「我喜歡挑戰」，或「你知道嗎？我本來就希望這會讓我有更多的認識。」他們瞭解他們的能力是可以培養的。他們擁有我所說的成長型思維。但是其它的學生卻覺得很悲慘、被擊敗了。從他們傾向固定型思維的觀點來看，他們的智力受到判斷，而他們失敗了。他們不但不能盡情享受「還沒」的力量，他們反而困在目前的艱難處境。 所以他們下一步會怎麼做？我告訴你們他們下一步會怎麼做。在一項研究中，他們告訴我們如果他們沒考過，他們下次可能會作弊，而不是更用功念書。在另一項研究中，在當掉之後，他們就去找比他們考得還糟的人，所以他們能自我感覺良好。一項又一項的研究顯示，他們會逃避困難。科學家測量腦電活動，看學生在出錯時的狀況。在左方，你看到的是固定型思維的學生。幾乎測不出什麼活動。他們逃避錯誤。他們一點也不想參與。但在右邊，你看到成長型思維的學生，即能力是可以培養的想法。他們努力參與。他們的腦部活動如火如荼，因為「還沒」。他們努力參與。他們思考錯誤。他們從中學習並修正。 我們是怎麼教養我們的孩子？我們教養是只看眼前的成果而不顧成長的發展？我們要教養出一心一意只想得 100 分的孩子？我們要教養出不知道如何作遠大夢想的孩子？他們最大的目標是再拿一個 100 分或是通過下次考試？難道他們一輩子都依賴於不斷地確認他們很棒？或許，是因為有雇主來找我並對我說，我們已經教養出一個年輕世代，他們不知道要怎麼過沒有獎勵的一天。 所以我們要怎麼做？我們要如何築橋把「還沒」與現在連起來？ 這些是我們能做的。第一，我們要有智慧地讚美，不是讚美他們的聰明或才能。這樣的讚美已經沒有用。不要再重蹈覆轍。而是要讚美孩子參與的過程：他們的努力，他們的策略，他們的專注，他們的堅持，他們的進步。讚美他們的努力會教養出堅忍不拔的孩子。 還有其他的方法獎勵「還沒」。我們最近與華盛頓大學的電玩學家合作，設計了一套新的線上數學遊戲，獎勵「還沒」。在這個遊戲中，學生因其努力、策略及過程而受到獎勵。一般的數學遊戲在你答對的瞬間獎勵你，這組遊戲獎勵的則是過程。我們看到學生更加努力、想出更多的策略，花更長的時間更積極地參與，在他們碰到真的很難很難的問題時，更有毅力。 我們發現簡單一句「還沒」或「還可以更好」，就能給孩子更多的信心，給他們邁向未來的一條生路，能更有毅力。我們還能真正改變學生的思維。在一項研究中，我們教導他們每次他們把自己推出熟悉的舒適區，去學習新的、難的東西，他們腦中的神經元就開始形成新的、更強的連結，一段時間後他們變得更聰明了。 來看看發生了什麼：在這項研究中，沒有接受成長型思維教學的學生在升班換學校等困難時刻顯示成績持續下滑，但是有接受這門思維課程的學生則顯示成績大幅反彈。現在我們已經在成千上萬的孩童上看到這種進步，特別是苦苦掙扎的學生。 所以讓我們來談一下平等。在美國，有幾類學生長期表現不佳，例如貧民區的孩童，或是美國原住民保留區的孩童。他們的表現長期如此之差，大家都認為他們就是這樣。但是當老師以「還沒」觀點設計成長型思維教學法，平等就發生了。隨便舉幾個例子。僅一年的時間，紐約哈林區的一個幼稚園班，其全國能力測驗得分率高達 95%。其中很多小孩剛進學校的時候還不會拿筆。僅一年時間，紐約市南布朗克斯區嚴重落後的四年級學生，變成紐約州全州數學測驗排名第一的四年級生。僅一年到一年半，某美國原住民保留區一所學校的學生成績從學區的墊底直升第一，而且那個學區還包括西雅圖的富裕區。所以原住民小孩比微軟小孩棒多了。 能有此結果是因為努力與困難的意義有所轉變。之前，努力與困難讓他們覺得很蠢，讓他們覺得很想放棄，但是現在，努力與困難，成了他們神經元產生新連結的時候，還是更強的連結。那就是他們變更聰明的時候。 我最近收到一封 13 歲男孩寫給我的信。他說：「親愛的德威克教授，我明白你的文章有紮實的科學根據，這就是為什麼我決定要將其付諸實踐。我在課業上下了更多工夫，還有我與我家人的關係上，還有我與同學的關係上，而我在這些方面都經歷長足進步，我現在才明瞭之前我多浪費生命。」 不要再浪費生命了，因為一但我們知道能力是能如此培養成長的，它就變成孩童、所有孩童的基本人權，在創造此等成長的地方生活，在充滿「還沒」的氛圍下生活。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
