Talk	en	zh-tw
carter_emmart_demos_a_3d_atlas_of_the_universe	It's a great honor today to share with you The Digital Universe, which was created for humanity to really see where we are in the universe. And so I think we can roll the video that we have. [The Himalayas.] (Music) The flat horizon that we've evolved with has been a metaphor for the infinite: unbounded resources and unlimited capacity for disposal of waste. It wasn't until we really left Earth, got above the atmosphere and had seen the horizon bend back on itself, that we could understand our planet as a limited condition. The Digital Universe Atlas has been built at the American Museum of Natural History over the past 12 years. We maintain that, put that together as a project to really chart the universe across all scales. What we see here are satellites around the Earth and the Earth in proper registration against the universe, as we see. NASA supported this work 12 years ago as part of the rebuilding of the Hayden Planetarium so that we would share this with the world. The Digital Universe is the basis of our space show productions that we do — our main space shows in the dome. But what you see here is the result of, actually, internships that we hosted with Linkoping University in Sweden. I've had 12 students work on this for their graduate work, and the result has been this software called Uniview and a company called SCISS in Sweden. This software allows interactive use, so this actual flight path and movie that we see here was actually flown live. I captured this live from my laptop in a cafe called Earth Matters on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where I live, and it was done as a collaborative project with the Rubin Museum of Himalayan Art for an exhibit on comparative cosmology. And so as we move out, we see continuously from our planet all the way out into the realm of galaxies, as we see here, light-travel time, giving you a sense of how far away we are. As we move out, the light from these distant galaxies have taken so long, we're essentially backing up into the past. We back so far up we're finally seeing a containment around us — the afterglow of the Big Bang. This is the WMAP microwave background that we see. We'll fly outside it here, just to see this sort of containment. If we were outside this, it would almost be meaningless, in the sense as before time. But this our containment of the visible universe. We know the universe is bigger than that which we can see. Coming back quickly, we see here the radio sphere that we jumped out of in the beginning, but these are positions, the latest positions of exoplanets that we've mapped, and our sun here, obviously, with our own solar system. What you're going to see — we're going to have to jump in here pretty quickly between several orders of magnitude to get down to where we see the solar system — these are the paths of Voyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 11 and Pioneer 10, the first four spacecraft to have left the solar system. Coming in closer, picking up Earth, orbit of the Moon, and we see the Earth. This map can be updated, and we can add in new data. I know Dr. Carolyn Porco is the camera P.I. for the Cassini mission. But here we see the complex trajectory of the Cassini mission color coded for different mission phases, ingeniously developed so that 45 encounters with the largest moon, Titan, which is larger that the planet Mercury, diverts the orbit into different parts of mission phase. This software allows us to come close and look at parts of this. This software can also be networked between domes. We have a growing user base of this, and we network domes. And we can network between domes and classrooms. We're actually sharing tours of the universe with the first sub-Saharan planetarium in Ghana as well as new libraries that have been built in the ghettos in Columbia and a high school in Cambodia. And the Cambodians have actually controlled the Hayden Planetarium from their high school. This is an image from Saturday, photographed by the Aqua satellite, but through the Uniview software. So you're seeing the edge of the Earth. This is Nepal. This is, in fact, right here is the valley of Lhasa, right here in Tibet. But we can see the haze from fires and so forth in the Ganges valley down below in India. This is Nepal and Tibet. And just in closing, I'd just like to say this beautiful world that we live on — here we see a bit of the snow that some of you may have had to brave in coming out — so I'd like to just say that what the world needs now is a sense of being able to look at ourselves in this much larger condition now and a much larger sense of what home is. Because our home is the universe, and we are the universe, essentially. We carry that in us. And to be able to see our context in this larger sense at all scales helps us all, I think, in understanding where we are and who we are in the universe. Thank you. (Applause)	今天非常榮幸和大家分享數字化宇宙它的誕生是為了讓全人類能夠真實地看到我們在宇宙中的位置。因此我們現在就可以看看這個視頻。 [喜馬拉雅山脈] （音樂） Carter Emmart旁白：一直以來我們所感受到的地平線恰似一個隱喻認為人有無窮無盡的資源無限的能力可以無節制地丟棄垃圾。直到我們真正地離開地球，到達大氣層之上，看到這個地平線彎曲成一個球，我們才會意識到我們的星球是有限的。數字化宇宙圖構建於美國自然歷史博物館已走過12個年頭。我們堅持不懈積思廣益令這個項目可以真實地繪製出各種比例下的宇宙。這裡我們看到的是環繞地球的衛星，以及地球在整個宇宙中的恰當位置。NASA支持這項工作已長達12年，將其作為重建海登天文館的一部份因而我們可以和全世界分享這個成果。 數字化宇宙基本上就是我們的空間展示節目，其播放的空間是個穹頂大廳。但是你在這裡看到的事實上是實習計劃的成果即我們在Linkoping大學的一個項目在瑞典。我有12個學生為這個項目工作這也是他們的研究生課題。成果就是這個成為“全宇視野”的軟件以及在瑞典成立的公司，叫SCISS。這個軟件允許交互使用。所以這道飛行軌跡以及我們這裡看到的所有影像都是真實發生過的。我從我的筆記本電腦上捕捉到這個真實片段就在一個叫“地球很重要”的咖啡館裡，位於曼哈頓的下東部，也就是我住的地方。所以這是一個多方合作的計劃會同（紐約的）魯賓喜馬拉雅藝術博物館聯合展出主題是比較宇宙學。 就這樣，當我們從地球出發從地球不斷看向宇宙的各個方向，正如這裡所展示的，光速可以讓你感受到現在距地球有多遙遠。當我們繼續前進，來自這些 遙遠星系的光已經走了非常遠，我們其實是在跟進這些光的過去。當我們越跟越近，最終我們會看到被一個容器所包圍——就是宇宙大爆炸的余輝。也就是W圖，微波背景就如我們現在所見。現在我們將飛越它，就會看到這個容器。如果我們跳到這個背景之外，那幾乎是無意義的，所謂在時間開始之前。但是這就是我們可見宇宙的邊界。我們知道宇宙要比我們所能看到的大得多。 迅速回到地球，這裡是我們最先出發的無線電波區域但是這些位置，是最新的太陽系外行星我們已經製作到圖中。顯然這裡是我們的太陽和太陽系。你們即將看到的——這裡必須快速跳躍透過不同量級的尺度看我們的太陽系。這些飛行軌跡屬於旅行者1號，旅行者2號，先鋒11號和先鋒10號，最早離開太陽系的四艘宇宙飛船。再靠近些，看看地球。在月球的運行軌道上，我們看地球。這張圖是可以更新的。我們可以添加新數據。 我知道Carolyn Porco 博士是卡西尼計劃的成像系統的首席研究員。但是這裡我們看到的複雜軌道屬於整個卡西尼計劃，不同的顏色區分了該計劃的不同階段，該計劃的推進極其精密巧妙，它45次與土星的最大衛星泰坦相遇，泰坦甚至大過水星，它把泰坦的運行軌跡劃分為該計劃的不同階段。 這套軟件讓我們能更靠近觀察這些不同部份。它還可以在不同的天文館間聯網使用。我們的基礎用戶群還在擴大。我們連接起這些天幕。而且我們還能讓天幕和教室聯網。我們的宇宙之旅可以在多處同時展開，無論是撒哈拉以南的第一座天文館加納的天文館還有建在哥倫比亞貧民窟的新圖書館，以及柬埔寨的某所中學。而且柬埔寨的同學們確實可以從他們的學校控制海登天文館。 這是星期六拍攝的一副圖像，透過Aqua衛星（NASA的多國科學衛星），但是用的是“全宇視野”軟件。所以這裡看到的是地球的邊緣。這是尼泊爾。這裡事實上是拉薩谷地，就位於西藏。但是我們能看到迷霧來自恒河谷地燃燒的火等等，就在印度的南部。這裡是尼泊爾和西藏。 最後，我想說，我們居住的這個美麗的星球——這裡能看到些積雪，在座有人可能曾經勇敢地到達過那裡。我只是想說，現在這個世界所需要的是讓我們能夠像這樣從更大的背景回望我們自己，從更廣大的空間看看我們的家園。因為我們的家就是宇宙，根本上來說我們就是宇宙。宇宙就蘊含在我們中。能夠看到我們身處的宇宙以各種更大的尺度來看，我認為有助于讓我們理解在宇宙中，我們在哪裡，我們是誰。 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
