Talk	en	zh-tw
casey_gerald_the_gospel_of_doubt	"There we were, souls and bodies packed into a Texas church on the last night of our lives. Packed into a room just like this, but with creaky wooden pews draped in worn-down red fabric, with an organ to my left and a choir at my back and a baptism pool built into the wall behind them. A room like this, nonetheless. With the same great feelings of suspense, the same deep hopes for salvation, the same sweat in the palms and the same people in the back not paying attention. (Laughter) This was December 31, 1999, the night of the Second Coming of Christ, and the end of the world as I knew it. I had turned 12 that year and had reached the age of accountability. And once I stopped complaining about how unfair it was that Jesus would return as soon as I had to be accountable for all that I had done, I figured I had better get my house in order very quickly. So I went to church as often as I could. I listened for silence as anxiously as one might listen for noise, trying to be sure that the Lord hadn't pulled a fast one on me and decided to come back early. And just in case he did, I built a backup plan, by reading the ""Left Behind"" books that were all the rage at the time. And I found in their pages that if I was not taken in the rapture at midnight, I had another shot. All I had to do was avoid taking the mark of the beast, fight off demons, plagues and the Antichrist himself. It would be hard — (Laughter) but I knew I could do it. (Laughter) But planning time was over now. It was 11:50pm. We had 10 minutes left, and my pastor called us out of the pews and down to the altar because he wanted to be praying when midnight struck. So every faction of the congregation took its place. The choir stayed in the choir stand, the deacons and their wives — or the Baptist Bourgeoisie as I like to call them — (Laughter) took first position in front of the altar. You see, in America, even the Second Coming of Christ has a VIP section. (Laughter) (Applause) And right behind the Baptist Bourgeoisie were the elderly — these men and women whose young backs had been bent under hot suns in the cotton fields of East Texas, and whose skin seemed to be burnt a creaseless noble brown, just like the clay of East Texas, and whose hopes and dreams for what life might become outside of East Texas had sometimes been bent and broken even further than their backs. Yes, these men and women were the stars of the show for me. They had waited their whole lives for this moment, just as their medieval predecessors had longed for the end of the world, and just as my grandmother waited for the Oprah Winfrey Show to come on Channel 8 every day at 4 o'clock. And as she made her way to the altar, I snuck right in behind her, because I knew for sure that my grandmother was going to heaven. And I thought that if I held on to her hand during this prayer, I might go right on with her. So I held on and I closed my eyes to listen, to wait. And the prayers got louder. And the shouts of response to the call of the prayer went up higher even still. And the organ rolled on in to add the dirge. And the heat came on to add to the sweat. And my hand gripped firmer, so I wouldn't be the one left in the field. My eyes clenched tighter so I wouldn't see the wheat being separated from the chaff. And then a voice rang out above us: ""Amen."" It was over. I looked at the clock. It was after midnight. I looked at the elder believers whose savior had not come, who were too proud to show any signs of disappointment, who had believed too much and for too long to start doubting now. But I was upset on their behalf. They had been duped, hoodwinked, bamboozled, and I had gone right along with them. I had prayed their prayers, I had yielded not to temptation as best I could. I had dipped my head not once, but twice in that snot-inducing baptism pool. I had believed. Now what? I got home just in time to turn on the television and watch Peter Jennings announce the new millennium as it rolled in around the world. It struck me that it would have been strange anyway, for Jesus to come back again and again based on the different time zones. (Laughter) And this made me feel even more ridiculous — hurt, really. But there on that night, I did not stop believing. I just believed a new thing: that it was possible not to believe. It was possible the answers I had were wrong, that the questions themselves were wrong. And now, where there was once a mountain of certitude, there was, running right down to its foundation, a spring of doubt, a spring that promised rivers. I can trace the whole drama of my life back to that night in that church when my savior did not come for me; when the thing I believed most certainly turned out to be, if not a lie, then not quite the truth. And even though most of you prepared for Y2K in a very different way, I'm convinced that you are here because some part of you has done the same thing that I have done since the dawn of this new century, since my mother left and my father stayed away and my Lord refused to come. And I held out my hand, reaching for something to believe in. I held on when I arrived at Yale at 18, with the faith that my journey from Oak Cliff, Texas was a chance to leave behind all the challenges I had known, the broken dreams and broken bodies I had seen. But when I found myself back home one winter break, with my face planted in the floor, my hands tied behind my back and a burglar's gun pressed to my head, I knew that even the best education couldn't save me. I held on when I showed up at Lehman Brothers as an intern in 2008. (Laughter) So hopeful — (Laughter) that I called home to inform my family that we'd never be poor again. (Laughter) But as I witnessed this temple of finance come crashing down before my eyes, I knew that even the best job couldn't save me. I held on when I showed up in Washington DC as a young staffer, who had heard a voice call out from Illinois, saying, ""It's been a long time coming, but in this election, change has come to America."" But as the Congress ground to a halt and the country ripped at the seams and hope and change began to feel like a cruel joke, I knew that even the political second coming could not save me. I had knelt faithfully at the altar of the American Dream, praying to the gods of my time of success, and money, and power. But over and over again, midnight struck, and I opened my eyes to see that all of these gods were dead. And from that graveyard, I began the search once more, not because I was brave, but because I knew that I would either believe or I would die. So I took a pilgrimage to yet another mecca, Harvard Business School — (Laughter) this time, knowing that I could not simply accept the salvation that it claimed to offer. No, I knew there'd be more work to do. The work began in the dark corner of a crowded party, in the late night of an early, miserable Cambridge winter, when three friends and I asked a question that young folks searching for something real have asked for a very long time: ""What if we took a road trip?"" (Laughter) We didn't know where'd we go or how we'd get there, but we knew we had to do it. Because all our lives we yearned, as Jack Kerouac wrote, to ""sneak out into the night and disappear somewhere,"" and go find out what everybody was doing all over the country. So even though there were other voices who said that the risk was too great and the proof too thin, we went on anyhow. We went on 8,000 miles across America in the summer of 2013, through the cow pastures of Montana, through the desolation of Detroit, through the swamps of New Orleans, where we found and worked with men and women who were building small businesses that made purpose their bottom line. And having been trained at the West Point of capitalism, this struck us as a revolutionary idea. (Laughter) And this idea spread, growing into a nonprofit called MBAs Across America, a movement that landed me here on this stage today. It spread because we found a great hunger in our generation for purpose, for meaning. It spread because we found countless entrepreneurs in the nooks and crannies of America who were creating jobs and changing lives and who needed a little help. But if I'm being honest, it also spread because I fought to spread it. There was no length to which I would not go to preach this gospel, to get more people to believe that we could bind the wounds of a broken country, one social business at a time. But it was this journey of evangelism that led me to the rather different gospel that I've come to share with you today. It began one evening almost a year ago at the Museum of Natural History in New York City, at a gala for alumni of Harvard Business School. Under a full-size replica of a whale, I sat with the titans of our time as they celebrated their peers and their good deeds. There was pride in a room where net worth and assets under management surpassed half a trillion dollars. We looked over all that we had made, and it was good. (Laughter) But it just so happened, two days later, I had to travel up the road to Harlem, where I found myself sitting in an urban farm that had once been a vacant lot, listening to a man named Tony tell me of the kids that showed up there every day. All of them lived below the poverty line. Many of them carried all of their belongings in a backpack to avoid losing them in a homeless shelter. Some of them came to Tony's program, called Harlem Grown, to get the only meal they had each day. Tony told me that he started Harlem Grown with money from his pension, after 20 years as a cab driver. He told me that he didn't give himself a salary, because despite success, the program struggled for resources. He told me that he would take any help that he could get. And I was there as that help. But as I left Tony, I felt the sting and salt of tears welling up in my eyes. I felt the weight of revelation that I could sit in one room on one night, where a few hundred people had half a trillion dollars, and another room, two days later, just 50 blocks up the road, where a man was going without a salary to get a child her only meal of the day. And it wasn't the glaring inequality that made me want to cry, it wasn't the thought of hungry, homeless kids, it wasn't rage toward the one percent or pity toward the 99. No, I was disturbed because I had finally realized that I was the dialysis for a country that needed a kidney transplant. I realized that my story stood in for all those who were expected to pick themselves up by their bootstraps, even if they didn't have any boots; that my organization stood in for all the structural, systemic help that never went to Harlem or Appalachia or the Lower 9th Ward; that my voice stood in for all those voices that seemed too unlearned, too unwashed, too unaccommodated. And the shame of that, that shame washed over me like the shame of sitting in front of the television, watching Peter Jennings announce the new millennium again and again and again. I had been duped, hoodwinked, bamboozled. But this time, the false savior was me. You see, I've come a long way  from that altar on the night I thought the world would end, from a world where people spoke in tongues and saw suffering as a necessary act of God and took a text to be infallible truth. Yes, I've come so far that I'm right back where I started. Because it simply is not true to say that we live in an age of disbelief — no, we believe today just as much as any time that came before. Some of us may believe in the prophecy of Brené Brown or Tony Robbins. We may believe in the bible of The New Yorker or the Harvard Business Review. We may believe most deeply when we worship right here at the church of TED, but we desperately want to believe, we need to believe. We speak in the tongues of charismatic leaders that promise to solve all our problems. We see suffering as a necessary act of the capitalism that is our god, we take the text of technological progress to be infallible truth. And we hardly realize the human price we pay when we fail to question one brick, because we fear it might shake our whole foundation. But if you are disturbed by the unconscionable things that we have come to accept, then it must be questioning time. So I have not a gospel of disruption or innovation or a triple bottom line. I do not have a gospel of faith to share with you today, in fact. I have and I offer a gospel of doubt. The gospel of doubt does not ask that you stop believing, it asks that you believe a new thing: that it is possible not to believe. It is possible the answers we have are wrong, it is possible the questions themselves are wrong. Yes, the gospel of doubt means that it is possible that we, on this stage, in this room, are wrong. Because it raises the question, ""Why?"" With all the power that we hold in our hands, why are people still suffering so bad? This doubt leads me to share that we are putting my organization, MBAs Across America, out of business. We have shed our staff and closed our doors and we will share our model freely with anyone who sees their power to do this work without waiting for our permission. This doubt compels me to renounce the role of savior that some have placed on me, because our time is too short and our odds are too long to wait for second comings, when the truth is that there will be no miracles here. And this doubt, it fuels me, it gives me hope that when our troubles overwhelm us, when the paths laid out for us seem to lead to our demise, when our healers bring no comfort to our wounds, it will not be our blind faith — no, it will be our humble doubt that shines a little light into the darkness of our lives and of our world and lets us raise our voice to whisper or to shout or to say simply, very simply, ""There must be another way."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我們身在那裡靈魂和身體全塞在一間德州的教堂度過我們生命的最後一晚擠在一個像這樣的房間但老舊的木長凳上蓋著的是破損的紅布而我左方是架管風琴後方有唱詩班唱詩班後面的牆後是個受洗池儘管在這樣的空間大家還是有著一樣強烈的信念一樣打從心底地等待著救贖手掌心同樣冒著汗而坐在後排的人也一樣心不在焉 （笑聲） 那是 1999 年的 12 月 31 日是耶穌再臨的夜晚也是我所認知的末日我那年才 12 歲剛到了問責的年紀（指開始承擔原罪，對神負責）而當我停止抱怨在我剛開始問責耶穌就將再臨是多麼的不公平時我意識到我得趕快振作起來 所以我盡可能地去教堂我專注並心焦地聆聽著靜默如人感受著風吹草動般我試著確定耶和華並不是在捉弄我而選擇這麼早就再臨 而如果祂真的選擇這麼早再臨我還有個備案曾經紅極一時的書《末日迷蹤》裡頭告訴我如果我沒有在子夜時分被送到天堂我就有機會賭一把全部要做的就是避免拿到獸之印記並打退惡魔和反基督教者這可能有難度 （笑聲） 但我確信我做得到 （笑聲） 我已經沒時間計畫了已經晚上 11:50我們只剩 10 分鐘牧師叫大家起身並到壇前因為他想在子夜那時祈禱所以眾教徒各就定位唱詩班留在原位而副祭們和他們的老婆我比較喜歡叫他們浸信會的中產階級 （笑聲） 則坐在壇前第一排如你所見，在美國就算耶穌再臨也有 VIP 區 （笑聲） （掌聲） 而在這群中產階級的後一排是長者們這群男女年輕時在東德州的烈日下彎著腰在棉花田裡工作他們的皮膚被炙成了平滑高雅的棕色就如同東德州的泥土離開東德州過好生活這樣的希望和夢想已經殘破不堪甚於他們的背 是的，這群男女對我來說是今天的主角他們等了一輩子就為了這一刻猶如中世紀的先人期待末日也像是我奶奶每天 4 點切到第 8 台等歐普拉的秀一樣當我奶奶走向壇前我偷偷尾隨在她身後因為我確知我奶奶會去天堂我想，如果我在禱告時握住她的手我就能跟她一起去 所以我緊握著手閉上雙眼聆聽等待禱告聲越來越大此起彼落的呼聲使禱告聲更為高亢管風琴也加入彈頌哀歌握熱的手心則冒著汗我的手緊握以免被留在凡間我的雙眼緊閉這樣才看不到麥子從糠中被分離接著是一聲：「阿門」 一切都結束了我看看時鐘已經過了 12 點我看向那群長者他們的救世主沒來他們因為驕傲而沒露出一絲的失望他們相信得太深太久如今也未曾質疑信仰我對他們的反應感到心煩意亂他們被騙了被欺瞞、被哄騙而我竟跟他們一起我跟著禱告我試著不被誘惑我也不只一次，而是兩度把頭浸入那讓人流鼻涕的受洗池我曾深信不疑現在呢？ 我及時回家打開電視看彼得．詹寧斯宣告世界各地前後到來的千禧年我突然意識到一件事耶穌在不同時區不停地再臨這樣的話太詭異了 （笑聲） 而這讓我覺得荒謬心很痛，真的但我不是在那晚就不再相信我只是相信了一件新的事情：一個人也可以選擇不相信可能我的答案是錯的而問題本身也可能是錯的只要有一座代表確信的山峰就會有一條代表懷疑的小溪而小溪往山腳流去終會匯聚成河流 我可以將我的人生回溯到那晚的教堂救世主並沒有前來的那晚當我所相信的事物很明顯地就算不說是個謊言也不能說是事實的時候即便在座絕大多數可能以不同的方式面對千禧年但我相信仍有人跟我一樣在這個新世紀的破曉時分跟我做了一樣的事自從我母親的離世與父親的離去以及主拒絕前來我伸出我的手試著探觸、尋找一個能讓我相信的東西 我 18 歲時進了耶魯大學心想離開了德州的奧克利夫就能夠將我所知的困難還有殘破的夢想、身形拋諸腦後但當我寒假回家臉被壓在地上手被綁在背後而竊賊的槍抵著我的腦門時我知道即使最好的教育也救不了我 2008 年當我在雷曼兄弟當實習生時也在尋找 （笑聲） 我充滿希望── （笑聲） 我打回家告訴家人我們不會再貧困了 （笑聲） 但我親眼見證金融聖殿在我面前坍塌我知道即便最好的工作也救不了我 我在華盛頓特區當年輕職員時尋找聽到來自伊利諾州的聲音說：「大家等待很久了，但在這次的選舉，美國將會改變。」但國會仍停滯不前而國家分崩離析希望與改變對我來說像是個殘酷的玩笑我知道就算政治重來也救不了我 我虔誠地跪在美國夢的祭壇前向上天祈禱屬於我的成就金錢和權力但一再地子夜來臨，而我張眼見到所有的神皆已死 而從那個墓園我決定再次尋找不是因為我很勇敢而是我知道我只能選擇相信不然就是死亡 所以我啟程向我心目中的麥加朝聖哈佛商學院 （笑聲） 這次，我知道我不能單單接受它們宣稱會提供的救贖不，我知道我還有更多事情要做 一切開始於一個熱鬧派對的黑暗角落在劍橋初冬，一個令人憂愁的夜晚三個朋友和我問了一個問題那是作為年輕小夥子尋求真諦一直以來會問的問題「如果我們去公路旅行怎麼樣？」 （笑聲） 我們不知道我們的目的地也不知道怎麼去但我們知道做就對了我們嚮往的生活就像傑克．凱魯亞克所寫的「在夜幕低垂時偷跑出去，並在某個地方消失無蹤」看看這個國家的其他人都在做些什麼所以即便有人認為風險太高憑據單薄我們還是上路了 我們在 2013 年的夏天跨越了美國 8000 哩經過了蒙大拿的牧場經過了底特律的荒野經過了紐奧良的沼澤我們在那和人們相遇、共事他們經營小事業並將心中的理想置於首位對哈佛商學院的我們來說這真是革命性的想法 （笑聲） 而這個理念最終成長為一個叫《橫跨美國的 MBA》的非營利組織這也是我今天上台的動機它因這個世代的渴望而散播對目標、意義的渴望它為了在美國角落和夾縫中的企業家而散播這些企業家創造了工作和改變生活的機會而他們需要一些幫助 但說實話它也因為我的奮鬥而散播為了傳這個福音沒有什麼我不會做的只為了讓更多人相信我們可以用一個個社會企業來包紮受傷的國家也是這個福音的旅程帶給我另一個不同的福音也就是我今天要跟各位分享的故事 大概是一年前的某個傍晚在紐約的自然史博物館哈佛商學院的校友聚會在真實比例的鯨魚複製品下我坐在我們這一代的巨人旁他們慶祝他們的優秀事蹟整個空間充滿自豪之感他們的淨值和資產就超過了 5000 億美元我們細數所贏得的一切感覺很好 （笑聲） 但是兩天之後我旅行到了紐約哈林區我坐在現代的農場那裡曾是空地聽著一個叫做東尼的男人告訴我每天都會出現的孩子的故事他們都活在貧窮門檻之下很多人的背包就背著他所有的家當避免在無家可歸的情況下失去它們有些人加入了東尼的計畫叫《哈林栽培》來領取每天僅有的一餐東尼創《哈林栽培》的資金是他的養老金他開了計程車 20 年他告訴我他沒付自己薪水因為儘管成功計畫還是會缺資源他說他接受任何他能得到的幫助而我就可以是那個幫助者 但當我揮別東尼我感到淚水的刺痛和鹹苦從我眼中奪眶而出我感受到了啟示的重量我可以在一個晚上和幾百個身價 5000 億的人共處一室但兩天過後的另一個空間就在 50 個街區外有一個男人無薪地給孩子一天的唯一一餐 並不是這明顯的不平等讓我想哭不是飢餓和無家可歸的孩子讓我想哭也不是 1% 對上可憐的 99% 讓我想哭我不安是因為我終於意識到我可以作為一台洗腎機幫助這個亟需腎臟移植的國家我意識到我的故事幫助了那些想要白手起家的人就算他們幾乎一無所有我意識到我的機構推動了結構性、系統性的援助到達未曾觸及的哈林區阿帕拉契或下九區我意識到我的聲音幫助了那些沒受教育、沒被洗禮、難以適應社會者的聲音 而那種羞赧讓我覺得像是那時坐在電視前的羞辱看著彼得．詹寧斯宣告千禧年的到來一次一次又一次我那時被騙了被欺瞞被哄騙但這次，我竟是那位犯錯的救世主 如你所見我走了很長的一段路從那天晚上我以為世界將要毀滅的祭壇從那個存在各種方言的世界人們視苦難為上帝的必要工作並視一本書為萬無一失的真相沒錯，我走了很長的一段路並回到了最初的起點 要說我活在不相信的年代明顯是錯的不，我們跟以前一樣都相信著我們有些人可能相信布芮尼．布朗或東尼．羅賓斯的「預言」我們可能相信《紐約客》或《哈佛商業評論》的「聖經」我們可能更深信這個 TED 的「教堂」我們不顧一切地想要相信我們需要去相信我們成為那些保證會解決問題的領袖的唇舌我們視苦難為資本主義的必要因素我們視科技進展為萬無一失的真理但我們鮮少發覺那些未曾質疑的根本將讓我們付出多少代價因為我們怕它會撼動整座基石 但若你對我們一直以來都接受、不曾存疑的事情感到不安那是時候懷疑了所以我並沒有什麼關於顛覆、創新或是商業價值的福音也並沒有什麼關於信念的福音要與你分享我提供給各位的是存疑的禮讚這並不是叫你不去相信是教你相信一件新的事：一個人也可以選擇不相信有可能我們現有的解答是錯的有可能問題本身是錯的沒錯！存疑的禮讚也代表了，我們在這個舞台在這個空間都是錯的因為這才能引出問題：「為什麼？」我們手中已握有了這樣的力量但為什麼人們還是受苦受難 這份懷疑讓我跟大家分享我們要將我們的組織《橫跨美國的 MBA》帶出商業圈我們解散員工並關閉大門並會免費將我們的模式分享給任何認為自己有能力勝任這份工作的人不用等我們許可這份懷疑驅使我拋棄別人加諸於我的救世主的角色因為我們的時間不多而等待耶穌再臨的機會又要等太久而事實是這世上沒有奇蹟 這份懷疑，點燃了我給我希望當困境壟罩之時當山窮水盡之時當醫者都無法減輕我們的痛苦時支撐我們的不是盲目的信念而是我們謙卑的懷疑它將使我們人生的陰暗撥雲見日讓我們張嘴耳語或張嘴吶喊或只是單純簡單地說出：「一定還有別的解答」 謝謝大家 （掌聲）
