Talk	en	zh-tw
casey_brown_know_your_worth_and_then_ask_for_it	"No one will ever pay you what you're worth. No one will ever pay you what you're worth. They'll only ever pay you what they think you're worth. And you control their thinking, not like this, although that would be cool. (Laughter) That would be really cool. Instead, like this: clearly defining and communicating your value are essential to being paid well for your excellence. Anyone here want to be paid well? OK, good, then this talk is for everyone. It's got universal applicability. It's true if you're a business owner, if you're an employee, if you're a job seeker. It's true if you're a man or a woman. Now, I approach this today through the lens of the woman business owner, because in my work I've observed that women underprice more so than men. The gender wage gap is a well-traveled narrative in this country. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a woman employee earns just 83 cents for every dollar a man earns. What may surprise you is that this trend continues even into the entrepreneurial sphere. A woman business owner earns just 80 cents for every dollar a man earns. In my work, I've often heard women express that they're uncomfortable communicating their value, especially early on in business ownership. They say things like, ""I don't like to toot my own horn."" ""I'd rather let the work speak for itself."" ""I don't like to sing my own praises."" I hear very different narratives in working with male business owners, and I think this difference is costing women 20 cents on the dollar. I'd like to tell you the story of a consulting firm that helps their clients dramatically improve their profitability. That company is my company. After my first year in business, I saw the profit increases that my clients were realizing in working with me, and I realized that I needed to reevaluate my pricing. I was really underpriced relative to the value I was delivering. It's hard for me to admit to you, because I'm a pricing consultant. (Laughter) It's what I do. I help companies price for value. But nonetheless, it's what I saw, and so I sat down to evaluate my pricing, evaluate my value, and I did that by asking key value questions. What are my clients' needs and how do I meet them? What is my unique skill set that makes me better qualified to serve my clients? What do I do that no one else does? What problems do I solve for clients? What value do I add? I answered these questions and defined the value that my clients get from working with me, calculated their return on investment, and what I saw was that I needed to double my price, double it. Now, I confess to you, this terrified me. I'm supposed to be the expert in this, but I'm not cured. I knew the value was there. I was convinced the value was there, and I was still scared out of my wits. What if nobody would pay me that? What if clients said, ""That's ridiculous. You're ridiculous."" Was I really worth that? Not my work, mind you, but me. Was I worth that? I'm the mother of two beautiful little girls who depend upon me. I'm a single mom. What if my business fails? What if I fail? But I know how to take my own medicine, the medicine that I prescribe to my clients. I had done the homework. I knew the value was there. So when prospects came, I prepared the proposals with the new higher pricing and sent them out and communicated the value. How's the story end? Clients continued to hire me and refer me and recommend me, and I'm still here. And I share this story because doubts and fears are natural and normal. But they don't define our value, and they shouldn't limit our earning potential. I'd like to share another story, about a woman who learned to communicate her value and found her own voice. She runs a successful web development company and employs several people. When she first started her firm and for several years thereafter, she would say, ""I have a little web design company."" She'd actually use those words with clients. ""I have a little web design company."" In this and in many other small ways, she was diminishing her company in the eyes of prospects and clients, and diminishing herself. It was really impacting her ability to earn what she was worth. I believe her language and her style communicated that she didn't believe she had much value to offer. In her own words, she was practically giving her services away. And so she began her journey to take responsibility for communicating value to clients and changing her message. One thing I shared with her is that it's so important to find your own voice, a voice that's authentic and true to you. Don't try to channel your sister-in-law just because she's a great salesperson or your neighbor who tells a great joke if that's not who you are. Give up this notion that it's tooting your own horn. Make it about the other party. Focus on serving and adding value, and it won't feel like bragging. What do you love about what you do? What excites you about the work that you do? If you connect with that, communicating your value will come naturally. So she embraced her natural style, found her voice and changed her message. For one thing, she stopped calling herself a little web design company. She really found a lot of strength and power in communicating her message. She's now charging three times as much for web design, and her business is growing. She told me about a recent meeting with a gruff and sometimes difficult client who had called a meeting questioning progress on search engine optimization. She said in the old days, that would have been a really intimidating meeting for her, but her mindset was different. She said, she prepared the information, sat down with the client, said this isn't about me, it's not personal, it's about the client. She took them through the data, through the numbers, laid out the trends and the progress in her own voice and in her own way, but very directly said, ""Here's what we've done for you."" The client sat up and took notice, and said, ""OK, I got it."" And she said in describing that meeting, ""I didn't feel scared or panicky or small, which is how I used to feel. Instead I feel like, 'OK, I got this. I know what I'm doing. I'm confident.'"" Being properly valued is so important. You can hear in this story that the implications range far beyond just finances into the realm of self-respect and self-confidence. Today I've told two stories, one about defining our value and the other about communicating our value, and these are the two elements to realizing our full earning potential. That's the equation. And if you're sitting in the audience today and you're not being paid what you're worth, I'd like to welcome you into this equation. Just imagine what life could be like, how much more we could do, how much more we could give back, how much more we could plan for the future, how validated and respected we would feel if we could earn our full potential, realize our full value. No one will ever pay you what you're worth. They'll only ever pay you what they think you're worth, and you control their thinking. Thank you. (Applause)"	從沒人會依據你的價值來支付薪水。沒有人會以你的價值，來付給你薪水。他們只會以他自己的想法，來付給你薪水。但你能控制他們的想法。不像這樣，雖然這樣很酷。 ( 笑聲 ) 真的很酷。反而應該這樣做：透過明確的定義和溝通，讓他們理解你的價值，為自己卓越的表現，爭取更好的待遇，這樣才對。 有誰想要獲得高薪呢？很好，那這個演講是給大家聽的。全世界適用。不論你是企業老闆或雇員，或是求職者；不論你是男是女。 今天我用女性企業老闆的角度來剖析，因為我在工作中發現，女性比男性更容易被低估薪水。男女薪水差異在美國非常常見。根據勞動局的統計，比起男性雇員，女性雇員的薪水只有前者的 83% 。讓你驚訝的是，就連創業階段也是這樣。男老闆每賺到 1 美元時，女老闆卻只能賺到 80 分。在我的職場裡，常聽到女性會說，她們不太喜歡討論自己的價值，尤其是在創業初期。她們會說：「我不愛自誇。」「我寧願用工作來證明自己。」「我不喜歡吹捧自己。」 但我從男性企業家那，卻聽到非常不同的說法。我認為，就因為這些差異，讓女性比男性少賺 20%。 讓我來說個顧問公司的故事。這公司顯著提升了其客戶的獲利，這就是我的公司。在我創業 1 年後，我注意到獲利成長，客戶也了解，跟我合作下才有此成果。我發現是該重新評估自己的報價。與我提供的服務相比，我的確太過便宜。有點難跟你承認，因為我是個定價顧問。 ( 笑聲 ) 這就是我的工作；我幫企業的價值訂定價格。儘管如此，我注意到了，所以我好好衡量了自己的收費和價值。我對自己提出幾個關鍵價值的問題：我的客戶需要什麼？我要如何達成他們的目的？ 對客戶來說，我有什麼特殊的專長，讓我比別人更勝任？我能提供什麼別人沒有的服務？我為客戶解決了哪些問題？為其公司增添了多少價值？我回答了這些問題，也明確地算出客戶與我合作後新增的價值，並算出他們的投資報酬率。結果發現，我該收雙倍的價錢。整整雙倍。現在，我卻要向你們坦承，這件事讓我非常恐懼。我是這方面的專家，但為此仍是忒忑不安！我知道自己有這個價值。我也被自己說服有這個價值了，但是我還是不敢相信這一切。如果沒人願意付我這樣的錢呢？又如果客戶說：「這價格太不思議了。」「妳簡直不可理喻！」 我真的值這麼多嗎？這並非工作的問題，注意，這是我自己的疑問。我值得這樣的價格嗎？我是個單親媽媽，獨自撫養兩個美麗的小女孩。如果我經商失敗了？如果我失敗了？ 但我知道該服用自己開的藥，那些我開給客戶的藥。我已做了功課，我知道有這價值。所以當機會來臨，我把已準備好、更貴的新價提案寄給他們，並跟他們討論其中的價值。結果如何呢？客戶不但繼續跟我續約，還推薦給其他人，我仍然在業界。跟你們分享這故事，因為懷疑和害怕都很自然正常。但這些都不能定義你的價值，也不能制約了我們的賺錢能力。 我還想分享另一個故事，是一位女性學習與他人溝通她的自我價值，進而發現自我的聲音。她經營一家成功的網站開發公司，也有幾名員工。她開了自己的公司，然後再過幾年，她稱自己有間「小小的網站設計公司。」她真的這樣對客戶介紹：「我有間小小的網站設計公司。」無論是從這或其他小地方，她讓潛在的客戶、現有的客戶貶低了她的公司，也藐視了她自己。這影響到她應得的收入和她真正的價值。我認為是因為她用的語言和方式，都表示連她自己也不信，自己有這樣的價值。她這樣說，簡直是賤賣了自己公司的服務。所以她開始一個名為「負責對客戶傳遞價值」的計畫，以及改變她所傳遞的訊息。 我與她分享一件非常重要的事：找出自己的聲音，一個對你而言，確切且真實的聲音。不用學你的嫂嫂，只因她是很好的銷售人員；或是那位很會說笑話的鄰居，因為那都不是你。試著放下「自吹自擂」的成見，從對方的角度著眼。著重在服務和價值的提升，就不會覺得自誇。你喜歡工作裡的哪些事?工作中哪些事讓你充滿幹勁？若能連結這些，必能自然而然傳遞你的價值。 她選擇用自己最自然的方式，找到自己的聲音，以及改變傳遞的訊息。其一，她不再稱自己是家小小的網路設計公司。她真的在溝通訊息中找到許多力量。如今她的網頁設計，收費是以前的三倍。她的事業正在成長。她提到一個近期的會議，一個蠻橫、有時又難搞的客戶，在問搜尋引擎優化的進度。若是從前，這必定是讓她極為害怕的會議。但她心態已然不同，她說自己準備了資料，坐下與客戶談。這並非針對她，也不對她個人，而是與客戶相關。她帶客戶看過所有資料和數據，用她自己的聲音和方式闡述趨勢和進度，用非常直接的方式說「這些是我為貴公司做到的。」客戶調整一下姿勢，表示注意到，就說：「好，我知道了。」她是這樣形容此會議的：「我一點都不覺得害怕或緊張，也不覺得渺小，這些都是我以前的感覺。這次我覺得自己很好且胸有成竹，我知道自己在做什麼，我有信心。」 能被正確的評量是非常重要的。從這故事能得知，影響範圍不但超出了金錢，而是進入了自尊和自信的範疇。今天我講了兩則故事：一則是奠定自我價值；另一則是傳達自我價值。這兩個要素，讓我們了解自己的價值，它是個算式。如果今天坐在觀眾席的你，沒拿到與你等值的薪水，我歡迎你帶入這個算式。想像一下生活會變得怎樣，我們能多做些什麼，我們能多回饋些什麼，能為未來多做哪些計畫，會對自己感到多麼踏實和自信。如果我們能夠獲得與能力相對應的收入，實現自我最大的價值。 從沒人會依據你的價值來支付薪水。他們只會給你，他們認為的價格。但你可以掌控他們的想法。 謝謝。 ( 掌聲 )
