Talk	en	zh-tw
catarina_mota_play_with_smart_materials	"I have a friend in Portugal whose grandfather built a vehicle out of a bicycle and a washing machine so he could transport his family. He did it because he couldn't afford a car, but also because he knew how to build one. There was a time when we understood how things worked and how they were made, so we could build and repair them, or at the very least make informed decisions about what to buy. Many of these do-it-yourself practices were lost in the second half of the 20th century. But now, the maker community and the open-source model are bringing this kind of knowledge about how things work and what they're made of back into our lives, and I believe we need to take them to the next level, to the components things are made of. For the most part, we still know what traditional materials like paper and textiles are made of and how they are produced. But now we have these amazing, futuristic composites — plastics that change shape, paints that conduct electricity, pigments that change color, fabrics that light up. Let me show you some examples. So conductive ink allows us to paint circuits instead of using the traditional printed circuit boards or wires. In the case of this little example I'm holding, we used it to create a touch sensor that reacts to my skin by turning on this little light. Conductive ink has been used by artists, but recent developments indicate that we will soon be able to use it in laser printers and pens. And this is a sheet of acrylic infused with colorless light-diffusing particles. What this means is that, while regular acrylic only diffuses light around the edges, this one illuminates across the entire surface when I turn on the lights around it. Two of the known applications for this material include interior design and multi-touch systems. And thermochromic pigments change color at a given temperature. So I'm going to place this on a hot plate that is set to a temperature only slightly higher than ambient and you can see what happens. So one of the principle applications for this material is, amongst other things, in baby bottles, so it indicates when the contents are cool enough to drink. So these are just a few of what are commonly known as smart materials. In a few years, they will be in many of the objects and technologies we use on a daily basis. We may not yet have the flying cars science fiction promised us, but we can have walls that change color depending on temperature, keyboards that roll up, and windows that become opaque at the flick of a switch. So I'm a social scientist by training, so why am I here today talking about smart materials? Well first of all, because I am a maker. I'm curious about how things work and how they are made, but also because I believe we should have a deeper understanding of the components that make up our world, and right now, we don't know enough about these high-tech composites our future will be made of. Smart materials are hard to obtain in small quantities. There's barely any information available on how to use them, and very little is said about how they are produced. So for now, they exist mostly in this realm of trade secrets and patents only universities and corporations have access to. So a little over three years ago, Kirsty Boyle and I started a project we called Open Materials. It's a website where we, and anyone else who wants to join us, share experiments, publish information, encourage others to contribute whenever they can, and aggregate resources such as research papers and tutorials by other makers like ourselves. We would like it to become a large, collectively generated database of do-it-yourself information on smart materials. But why should we care how smart materials work and what they are made of? First of all, because we can't shape what we don't understand, and what we don't understand and use ends up shaping us. The objects we use, the clothes we wear, the houses we live in, all have a profound impact on our behavior, health and quality of life. So if we are to live in a world made of smart materials, we should know and understand them. Secondly, and just as important, innovation has always been fueled by tinkerers. So many times, amateurs, not experts, have been the inventors and improvers of things ranging from mountain bikes to semiconductors, personal computers, airplanes. The biggest challenge is that material science is complex and requires expensive equipment. But that's not always the case. Two scientists at University of Illinois understood this when they published a paper on a simpler method for making conductive ink. Jordan Bunker, who had had no experience with chemistry until then, read this paper and reproduced the experiment at his maker space using only off-the-shelf substances and tools. He used a toaster oven, and he even made his own vortex mixer, based on a tutorial by another scientist/maker. Jordan then published his results online, including all the things he had tried and didn't work, so others could study and reproduce it. So Jordan's main form of innovation was to take an experiment created in a well-equipped lab at the university and recreate it in a garage in Chicago using only cheap materials and tools he made himself. And now that he published this work, others can pick up where he left and devise even simpler processes and improvements. Another example I'd like to mention is Hannah Perner-Wilson's Kit-of-No-Parts. Her project's goal is to highlight the expressive qualities of materials while focusing on the creativity and skills of the builder. Electronics kits are very powerful in that they teach us how things work, but the constraints inherent in their design influence the way we learn. So Hannah's approach, on the other hand, is to formulate a series of techniques for creating unusual objects that free us from pre-designed constraints by teaching us about the materials themselves. So amongst Hannah's many impressive experiments, this is one of my favorites. [""Paper speakers""] What we're seeing here is just a piece of paper with some copper tape on it connected to an mp3 player and a magnet. (Music: ""Happy Together"") So based on the research by Marcelo Coelho from MIT, Hannah created a series of paper speakers out of a wide range of materials from simple copper tape to conductive fabric and ink. Just like Jordan and so many other makers, Hannah published her recipes and allows anyone to copy and reproduce them. But paper electronics is one of the most promising branches of material science in that it allows us to create cheaper and flexible electronics. So Hannah's artisanal work, and the fact that she shared her findings, opens the doors to a series of new possibilities that are both aesthetically appealing and innovative. So the interesting thing about makers is that we create out of passion and curiosity, and we are not afraid to fail. We often tackle problems from unconventional angles, and, in the process, end up discovering alternatives or even better ways to do things. So the more people experiment with materials, the more researchers are willing to share their research, and manufacturers their knowledge, the better chances we have to create technologies that truly serve us all. So I feel a bit as Ted Nelson must have when, in the early 1970s, he wrote, ""You must understand computers now."" Back then, computers were these large mainframes only scientists cared about, and no one dreamed of even having one at home. So it's a little strange that I'm standing here and saying, ""You must understand smart materials now."" Just keep in mind that acquiring preemptive knowledge about emerging technologies is the best way to ensure that we have a say in the making of our future. Thank you. (Applause)"	我在葡萄牙有位朋友他的祖父將腳踏車和洗衣機改裝成腳踏車以便載送家人他這麼做既是因為沒錢買車也是因為他知道如何改裝人類曾經知道東西是如何運作的如何做成的，我們知道如何建造與修理至少清楚地知道我們要買什麼許多DIY的技術自二十世紀下半葉起開始失傳但現在，生產社群以及開放模型正將東西的運作及其原料等知識逐漸帶回我們的生活中而我相信我們應該更進一步去認識組成這些東西的零件 我們大多還知道紙和紡織品等傳統原料是由什麼製成的又是如何生產的但我們現在有了這些令人驚嘆又有未來感的複合材料像是伸縮自如的塑膠能導電的漆料能變換顏色的顏料，和會發光的布等我給大家看些例子 導電油墨讓我們不需要用傳統印刷電路或電線用傳統印刷電路或電線而可以直接油漆電路以我手上拿著的這個小東西為例導電油墨可以製成觸控感應器，當它感應我的皮膚時這盞小燈就會亮起藝術家早已在用導電油墨但最近的研究顯示，不久後我們將能將它用在雷射印表機和筆上面這塊丙烯酸纖維附滿了無色的散光粒子意思就是，普通的丙烯酸纖維只會在邊緣散光但這塊纖維在我開燈的時候整個表面都會發光這類材質的應用目前已知有二一是內部設計，一是多點觸控系統熱變色顏料則會在特定溫度下變色所以我現在把這個東西放在熱的盤子上這個盤子的溫度比室溫稍微高一點你們馬上就能看到結果了這項材料主要的應用是在嬰兒奶瓶上它能顯示內容物是否涼了可以喝了 以上只是一些我們俗稱為智慧型材料的例子再過幾年，這些材料就會成為我們日常生活中常用物品和科技的基本要素我們可能還沒辦法擁有科幻小說中會出現的飛天汽車但我們會有能隨著溫度改變顏色的牆壁可以捲起來的鍵盤一關就能變不透明的窗戶 我本身是社會科學家所以我到底為什麼要來這裡講智慧型材料呢？首先，因為我是個製造者我對東西的運作感到好奇想知道它們是如何製成的但同時也是因為我相信我們應該要更了解建構出我們這個世界的一切而現今，我們對這些將建構我們未來的高科技的複合材料不夠瞭解智慧型材料難以在少量下取得而目前也幾乎沒有任何有關如何使用這些材料的資料它們是如何製成的資訊更是少之又少所以目前，它們幾乎都是商業機密或是有專利保護只有大學和公司能夠取得 因此在大約三年多前，我和克絲蒂著手進行一項我們稱之為材料公開化的計劃在這個網站中，我們以及任何想要加入的人都可以分享實驗成果，發表資料希望能鼓勵大家隨時分享所長並收集一些資源，像是其他像我們一樣身為製作者的研究報告或是使用說明書我們期望這個網站能發展成為一個以智慧型材料DIY資訊為主題的集體創作大型資料庫 不過為什麼我們應該要關心智慧型材料的運作方式以及組成呢？首先，因為我們不能控制自己不了解的東西而我們不了解卻在使用的東西常反而控制了我們我們用的物品，穿的衣服住的房子，全都會對我們的行為健康和生活品質有著深遠的影響所以如果我們身處的世界充滿了智慧型材料我們就該去認識且了解它們第二點創新總是在不起眼的改造中誕生很多時候，是外行人而非專家成了發明者或是改進者越野腳踏車半導體、個人電腦飛機等都是如此 最大的困難通常在於材料科學很複雜且需要昂貴的設備但也不總是如此伊利諾大學有兩名科學家便深諳此道理他們發表的論文是關於如何用較簡單的方法製作導電油墨喬登邦克在讀論文前完全沒有相關化學經驗他試著跟著論文步驟做實驗並用現成原料及工具製作他用烤箱甚至根據其他科學家的說明書自製試管震盪器喬登後來將自己的成果放上網裡面包括他做的所有嘗試，以及失敗的案例這樣其他人就可以效法喬登創新的地方是將原本需要在設備精密的大學實驗室才能完成的實驗在他在芝加哥家中的車庫只用便宜的材料和用具就自己完成了而在他發表這項成果後其他人就可以接續研究想出更簡單的方法或是改進步驟 我想分享的另一個例子是漢娜威爾森的無零件工具她想要強調材料的質性以及創造者的創造力和技術電子零件在教導我們認識東西的運作上非常有用但這卻有侷限性：實驗本身的設計方式會影響到我們學習的方式因此漢娜的辦法是發想出一系列的技術來創造特殊物品以使我們能不受限於設計上的侷限真正去認識材料本身漢娜眾多令人印象深刻的實驗裡這是我最喜歡的一樣[紙喇叭]我們現在看到的只是一張紙上面貼了一些銅線，且連到MP3和磁鐵上（音樂：快樂愛相隨）根據麻省理工柯爾賀先生的研究漢娜用許多不同的材料銅膠帶，導電布和油墨等製作出一系列的紙喇叭而就像喬登以及許多其它的製作者漢娜將方法公開讓大家可以複製或轉載 但紙電子只是現在前景最被看好的材料科學其中一個分支罷了紙電子讓我們能創造出較便宜且有彈性的電子漢娜的手工藝成品加上她的願意分享發現使得一連串極具美感以及創新的新發現有了可能 製造者有趣的地方在於我們本著熱忱與好奇創造且我們不怕失敗我們常從獨特的角度解決問題並在過程中發現其他的甚至更好的方法所以越多人在材料上做實驗越多研究人員願意分享研究散播知識我們就有越大的機會創造出服務眾人的科技 我現在的感覺有點像泰德尼爾森在一九七零年代早期寫下「你們現在應該要了解電腦」時的心情當時，電腦是只有科學家在關心的大型計算機根本沒人料的到以後會人人一台所以也許你們會覺得我現在站在這裡和大家說「你們現在必須要了解智慧型材料」很奇怪但謹記搶先擁有新興科技的知識是確保我們能對於自己的未來仍有發言權最好的方式 謝謝 （掌聲）
