Talk	en	zh-tw
catherine_mohr_builds_green	"First of all, I'm a geek. I'm an organic food-eating, carbon footprint-minimizing, robotic surgery geek. And I really want to build green, but I'm very suspicious of all of these well-meaning articles, people long on moral authority and short on data, telling me how to do these kinds of things. And so I have to figure this out for myself. For example: Is this evil? I have dropped a blob of organic yogurt from happy self-actualized local cows on my counter top, and I grab a paper towel and I want to wipe it up. But can I use a paper towel? (Laughter) The answer to this can be found in embodied energy. This is the amount of energy that goes into any paper towel or embodied water, and every time I use a paper towel, I am using this much virtual energy and water. Wipe it up, throw it away. Now, if I compare that to a cotton towel that I can use a thousand times, I don't have a whole lot of embodied energy until I wash that yogurty towel. This is now operating energy. So if I throw my towel in the washing machine, I've now put energy and water back into that towel ... unless I use a front-loading, high-efficiency washing machine, (Laughter) and then it looks a little bit better. But what about a recycled paper towel that comes in those little half sheets? Well, now a paper towel looks better. Screw the paper towels. Let's go to a sponge. I wipe it up with a sponge, and I put it under the running water, and I have a lot less energy and a lot more water. Unless you're like me and you leave the handle in the position of hot even when you turn it on, and then you start to use more energy. Or worse, you let it run until it's warm to rinse out your towel. And now all bets are off. (Laughter) So what this says is that sometimes the things that you least expect — the position in which you put the handle — have a bigger effect than any of those other things that you were trying to optimize. Now imagine someone as twisted as me trying to build a house. (Laughter) That's what my husband and I are doing right now. And so, we wanted to know, how green could we be? And there's a thousand and one articles out there telling us how to make all these green trade-offs. And they are just as suspect in telling us to optimize these little things around the edges and missing the elephant in the living room. Now, the average house has about 300 megawatt hours of embodied energy in it; this is the energy it takes to make it — millions and millions of paper towels. We wanted to know how much better we could do. And so, like many people, we start with a house on a lot, and I'm going to show you a typical construction on the top and what we're doing on the bottom. So first, we demolish it. It takes some energy, but if you deconstruct it — you take it all apart, you use the bits — you can get some of that energy back. We then dug a big hole to put in a rainwater catchment tank to take our yard water independent. And then we poured a big foundation for passive solar. Now, you can reduce the embodied energy by about 25 percent by using high fly ash concrete. We then put in framing. And so this is framing — lumber, composite materials — and it's kind of hard to get the embodied energy out of that, but it can be a sustainable resource if you use FSC-certified lumber. We then go on to the first thing that was very surprising. If we put aluminum windows in this house, we would double the energy use right there. Now, PVC is a little bit better, but still not as good as the wood that we chose. We then put in plumbing, electrical and HVAC, and insulate. Now, spray foam is an excellent insulator — it fills in all the cracks — but it is pretty high embodied energy, and, sprayed-in cellulose or blue jeans is a much lower energy alternative to that. We also used straw bale infill for our library, which has zero embodied energy. When it comes time to sheetrock, if you use EcoRock it's about a quarter of the embodied energy of standard sheetrock. And then you get to the finishes, the subject of all of those ""go green"" articles, and on the scale of a house they almost make no difference at all. And yet, all the press is focused on that. Except for flooring. If you put carpeting in your house, it's about a tenth of the embodied energy of the entire house, unless you use concrete or wood for a much lower embodied energy. So now we add in the final construction energy, we add it all up, and we've built a house for less than half of the typical embodied energy for building a house like this. But before we pat ourselves too much on the back, we have poured 151 megawatt hours of energy into constructing this house when there was a house there before. And so the question is: How could we make that back? And so if I run my new energy-efficient house forward, compared with the old, non-energy-efficient house, we make it back in about six years. Now, I probably would have upgraded the old house to be more energy-efficient, and in that case, it would take me more about 20 years to break even. Now, if I hadn't paid attention to embodied energy, it would have taken us over 50 years to break even compared to the upgraded house. So what does this mean? On the scale of my portion of the house, this is equivalent to about as much as I drive in a year, it's about five times as much as if I went entirely vegetarian. But my elephant in the living room flies. Clearly, I need to walk home from TED. But all the calculations for embodied energy are on the blog. And, remember, it's sometimes the things that you are not expecting to be the biggest changes that are. Thank you. (Applause)"	首先，我是個怪胎。我是個熱衷生機飲食，對碳足跡斤斤計較，用機器人動外科手術的怪胎。我真的想蓋綠建築，但對那些出於一番好意的文章，心裏又很懷疑，通篇的大道理，提供的資料卻很少，不能告訴我遇到狀況該怎麼辦。所以我只好自己找答案。比方說：這樣做錯了嗎？我把一沱由健康快樂的本地乳牛所生產的有機優格，滴到桌上了。我抓了張紙巾，想把它擦掉。但是，我可以用紙巾嗎？（笑聲） 答案是，要看它的內含耗能。也就是進入到紙巾當中的內含耗能或內含水量。我每用一張紙巾，也就等於會用掉這麼多的耗能和水。擦乾淨，然後丟掉。現在，拿棉布來比一比。棉布可以用一千次，沒有大量的內含耗能問題，直到我把沾滿優格的布拿去洗。現在，來看看操作耗能。如果我把棉布丟進洗衣機，我就把這些耗能和水加進那條棉布裏，除非我用的是前置式高效能洗衣機，那情況會稍微好一點。如果是回收紙巾呢？像這樣小小張的回收紙巾？嗯，回收紙巾好像比較好。把紙巾丟到一邊。來看看海綿吧！我用海綿擦，然後拿到水龍頭下沖洗，結果，耗能大減，但用水量大增，除非你和我一樣，打開水龍頭時把把手轉到熱水的位置，這樣，耗能就會開始增加，更糟的是，你讓水一直流，直到水變熱才開始沖洗。結果，之前全都白忙一場。 （笑聲） 所以，我要說的就是有時候，你沒想到的事情比如手龍頭把手的位置，比起其他你努力想改善的東西，作用更大。現在，想像有個人和我一樣怪想蓋房子。（笑聲）這就是我先生和我現在在做的事。所以囉，我們想知道我們能做到多「綠」。外面大概有一千零一篇文章在談綠色代價與取捨的問題。這些文章也不太可靠，講了很多如何優化一些瑣碎的小事，卻沒看到客廳裏有頭大象。現在，我們來看一般的房子其中大約有300千瓦小時的內含耗能。也就是蓋這個房子需用到的耗能。相當於好幾百萬張的紙巾。 我們想知道，怎樣可以做得更好。所以，和很多人一樣，我們從地上的一棟房子開始。畫面上方你會看到一般的建築。畫面下方則是我們在做的事。首先，我們拆掉房子。這會增加一些耗能，不過如果你是用拆解的方式，把房子解體，並利用這些材料，你就可以減少一些耗能。接著，我們挖個大洞來放雨水貯留槽這樣院子就有獨立的供水。然後，我們灌地基，安放被動式太陽能系統。再來，你可以讓內含耗能減少約25%如果你採用高飛灰量混凝土的話。再來，我們搭建結構。這就是房子的結構、木材、複合材料，要減少這些東西的內含耗能，不太容易，但你可以採用永續性資材，例如有F.S.C.認證的木材。 然後，你會發現第一件令人吃驚的事。如果我們在房子裏裝上鋁窗，內含耗能就會加倍。用PVC會好一點，但還是不如我們所選用的木材。接著是裝設水、電、及空調等的管線，以及絕緣。泡沫噴劑是很好的絕緣材料，可以填補各個間隙，但它的內含耗能相當高。噴覆式纖維素或回收的牛仔布料，內含耗能低，是很好的替代品。我們還用了乾草磚搭蓋圖書室，乾草磚的內含耗能是零。在選擇石膏板時，如果你採用生態磚（EcoRock），它的內含耗能只有一般石膏板的四分之一。 再來是表面處理。所有那些談「綠化」的文章，都以此為主題。以一個房子的規模來看，表面處理幾乎沒有什麼影響。可是，報刊文章都把重點放在這裏。但地板例外。如果你在房子裏鋪地毯，它大概會佔整個房子內含耗能的十分之一。如果你選擇混凝土或木材，內含耗能就會減少很多。現在，我們把最後的施工耗能加進去，全部加起來，與一般建造這類房子所需的內含耗能相比，我們蓋的房子，只用了不到一半的內含耗能。 但是，等一下，我們先別急著得意。我們花了１５１千瓦小時的耗能來建造這個房子，而這兒原本就有個舊房子。現在問題來了：我們要怎麼把它補回來？假如，我從今天起開始使用這個節能的新房子，和過去沒有節能設計的舊房子相比，大概六年後可以把它抵銷。如果，我是改建舊房子，讓它變得更節能，在這種情況下，要花約二十年才能抵銷。假如我沒有去注意內含耗能這件事，可能就得花上五十年的時間才能抵銷改建房子時所增加的耗能。而這代表什麼意義？以我的房子的規模來看，使用這房子的內含耗能，和我開車所用的內含耗能相當，大概等於我飲食的內含耗能的五倍，如果我吃全素的話。而我客廳裏的大象呢，是搭飛機。看來，我得從TED走路回家才行了。這些內含耗能的計算，在這個網誌上可以找到。 最後別忘了，那些你覺得無關緊要的事，常常就是至關緊要的。 謝謝。（掌聲）
