Talk	en	zh-tw
catherine_mohr_surgery_s_past_present_and_robotic_future	"A talk about surgical robots is also a talk about surgery. And while I've tried to make my images not too graphic, keep in mind that surgeons have a different relationship with blood than normal people do, because, after all, what a surgeon does to a patient, if it were done without consent, would be a felony. Surgeons are the tailors, the plumbers, the carpenters — some would say the butchers — of the medical world: cutting, reshaping, reforming, bypassing, fixing. But you need to talk about surgical instruments and the evolution of surgical technology together. So in order to give you some kind of a perspective of where we are right now with surgical robots, and where we're going to be going in the future, I want to give you a little bit of perspective of how we got to this point, how we even came to believe that surgery was OK, that this was something that was possible to do, that this kind of cutting and reforming was OK. So, a little bit of perspective — about 10,000 years of perspective. This is a trephinated skull. And trephination is simply just cutting a hole in the skull. And many, many hundreds of skulls like this have been found in archaeological sites all over the world, dating back five to 10 thousand years. Five to 10 thousand years! Now imagine this. You are a healer in a Stone Age village. And you have some guy that you're not quite sure what's wrong with him — Oliver Sacks is going to be born way in the future. He's got some seizure disorder. And you don't understand this. But you think to yourself, ""I'm not quite sure what's wrong with this guy. But maybe if I cut a hole in his head I can fix it."" (Laughter) Now that is surgical thinking. Now we've got the dawn of interventional surgery here. What is astonishing about this is, even though we don't know really how much of this was intended to be religious, or how much of it was intended to be therapeutic, what we can tell is that these patients lived! Judging by the healing on the borders of these holes, they lived days, months, years following trephination. And so what we are seeing is evidence of a refined technique that was being handed down over thousands and thousands of years, all over the world. This arose independently at sites everywhere that had no communication to one another. We really are seeing the dawn of interventional surgery. Now we can fast forward many thousands of years into the Bronze Age and beyond. And we see new refined tools coming out. But surgeons in these eras are a little bit more conservative than their bold, trephinating ancestors. These guys confined their surgery to fairly superficial injuries. And surgeons were tradesmen, rather than physicians. This persisted all the way into and through the Renaissance. That may have saved the writers, but it didn't really save the surgeons terribly much. They were still a mistrusted lot. Surgeons still had a bit of a PR problem, because the landscape was dominated by the itinerant barber surgeon. These were folks that traveled from village to village, town to town, doing surgery sort of as a form of performance art. Because we were in the age before anesthesia, the agony of the patient is really as much of the public spectacle as the surgery itself. One of the most famous of these guys, Frere Jacques, shown here doing a lithotomy — which is the removal of the bladder stone, one of the most invasive surgeries they did at the time — had to take less than two minutes. You had to have quite a flair for the dramatic, and be really, really quick. And so here you see him doing a lithotomy. And he is credited with doing over 4,000 of these public surgeries, wandering around in Europe, which is an astonishing number, when you think that surgery must have been a last resort. I mean who would put themselves through that? Until anesthesia, the absence of sensation. With the demonstration of the Morton Ether Inhaler at the Mass. General in 1847, a whole new era of surgery was ushered in. Anesthesia gave surgeons the freedom to operate. Anesthesia gave them the freedom to experiment, to start to delve deeper into the body. This was truly a revolution in surgery. But there was a pretty big problem with this. After these very long, painstaking operations, attempting to cure things they'd never been able to touch before, the patients died. They died of massive infection. Surgery didn't hurt anymore, but it killed you pretty quickly. And infection would continue to claim a majority of surgical patients until the next big revolution in surgery, which was aseptic technique. Joseph Lister was aepsis's, or sterility's, biggest advocate, to a very very skeptical bunch of surgeons. But eventually they did come around. The Mayo brothers came out to visit Lister in Europe. And they came back to their American clinic and they said they had learned it was as important to wash your hands before doing surgery as it was to wash up afterwards. (Laughter) Something so simple. And yet, operative mortality dropped profoundly. These surgeries were actually now being effective. With the patient insensitive to pain, and a sterile operating field all bets were off, the sky was the limit. You could now start doing surgery everywhere, on the gut, on the liver, on the heart, on the brain. Transplantation: you could take an organ out of one person, you could put it in another person, and it would work. Surgeons didn't have a problem with respectability anymore; they had become gods. The era of the ""big surgeon, big incision"" had arrived, but at quite a cost, because they are saving lives, but not necessarily quality of life, because healthy people don't usually need surgery, and unhealthy people have a very hard time recovering from a cut like that. The question had to be asked, ""Well, can we do these same surgeries but through little incisions?"" Laparoscopy is doing this kind of surgery: surgery with long instruments through small incisions. And it really changed the landscape of surgery. Some of the tools for this had been around for a hundred years, but it had only been used as a diagnostic technique until the 1980s, when there was changes in camera technologies and things like that, that allowed this to be done for real operations. So what you see — this is now the first surgical image — as we're coming down the tube, this is a new entry into the body. It looks very different from what you're expecting surgery to look like. We bring instruments in, from two separate cuts in the side, and then you can start manipulating tissue. Within 10 years of the first gallbladder surgeries being done laparoscopically, a majority of gallbladder surgeries were being done laparoscopically — truly a pretty big revolution. But there were casualties of this revolution. These techniques were a lot harder to learn than people had anticipated. The learning curve was very long. And during that learning curve the complications went quite a bit higher. Surgeons had to give up their 3D vision. They had to give up their wrists. They had to give up intuitive motion in the instruments. This surgeon has over 3,000 hours of laparoscopic experience. Now this is a particularly frustrating placement of the needle. But this is hard. And one of the reasons why it is so hard is because the external ergonomics are terrible. You've got these long instruments, and you're working off your centerline. And the instruments are essentially working backwards. So what you need to do, to take the capability of your hand, and put it on the other side of that small incision, is you need to put a wrist on that instrument. And so — I get to talk about robots — the da Vinci robot put just that wrist on the other side of that incision. And so here you're seeing the operation of this wrist. And now, in contrast to the laparoscopy, you can precisely place the needle in your instruments, and you can pass it all the way through and follow it in a trajectory. And the reason why this becomes so much easier is — you can see on the bottom — the hands are making the motions, and the instruments are following those motions exactly. Now, what you put between those instruments and those hands, is a large, fairly complicated robot. The surgeon is sitting at a console, and controlling the robot with these controllers. And the robot is moving these instruments around, and powering them, down inside the body. You have a 3D camera, so you get a 3D view. And since this was introduced in 1999, a lot of these robots have been out and being used for surgical procedures like a prostatectomy, which is a prostate deep in the pelvis, and it requires fine dissection and delicate manipulation to be able to get a good surgical outcome. You can also sew bypass vessels directly onto a beating heart without cracking the chest. This is all done in between the ribs. And you can go inside the heart itself and repair the valves from the inside. You've got these technologies — thank you — (Applause) And so you might say, ""Wow this is really cool! So, smartypants, why isn't all surgery being done this way?"" And there are some reasons, some good reasons. And cost is one of them. I talked about the large, complicated robot. With all its bells and whistles, one of those robots will cost you about as much as a solid gold surgeon. More useful than a solid gold surgeon, but, still, it's a fairly big capital investment. But once you've got it, your procedure costs do come down. But there are other barriers. So something like a prostatectomy — the prostate is small, and it's in one spot, and you can set your robot up very precisely to work in that one spot. And so it's perfect for something like that. And in fact if you, or anyone you know, had their prostate taken out in the last couple of years, chances are it was done with one of these systems. But if you need to reach more places than just one, you need to move the robot. And you need to put some new incisions in there. And you need to re-set it up. And then you need to add some more ports, and more. And the problem is it gets time-consuming, and cumbersome. And for that reason there are many surgeries that just aren't being done with the da Vinci. So we had to ask the question, ""Well how do we fix that?"" What if we could change it so that we didn't have to re-set up each time we wanted to move somewhere different? What if we could bring all the instruments in together in one place? How would that change the capabilities of the surgeon? And how would that change the experience for the patient? Now, to do that, we need to be able to bring a camera and instruments in together through one small tube, like that tube you saw in the laparoscopy video. Or, not so coincidentally, like a tube like this. So what's going to come out of that tube is the debut of this new technology, this new robot that is going to be able to reach anywhere. Ready? So here it comes. This is the camera, and three instruments. And as you see it come out, in order to actually be able to do anything useful, it can't all stay clustered up like this. It has to be able to come off of the centerline and then be able to work back toward that centerline. He's a cheeky little devil. But what this lets you do is gives you that all-important traction, and counter-traction, so that you can dissect, so that you can sew, so that you can do all the things that you need to do, all the surgical tasks. But it's all coming in through one incision. It's not so simple. But it's worth it for the freedom that this gives us as we're going around. For the patient, however, it's transparent. This is all they're going to see. It's very exciting to think where we get to go with this. We get to write the script of the next revolution in surgery. As we take these capabilities, and we get to go to the next places, we get to decide what our new surgeries are going to be. And I think to really get the rest of the way in that revolution, we need to not just take our hands in in new ways, we also need to take our eyes in in new ways. We need to see beyond the surface. We need to be able to guide what we're cutting in a much better way. This is a cancer surgery. One of the problems with this, even for surgeons who've been looking at this a lot, is you can't see the cancer, especially when it's hidden below the surface. And so what we're starting to do is we're starting to inject specially designed markers into the bloodstream that will target the cancer. It will go, bind to the cancer. And we can make those markers glow. And we can take special cameras, and we can look at it. Now we know where we need to cut, even when it's below the surface. We can take these markers and we can inject them in a tumor site. And we can follow where they flow out from that tumor site, so we can see the first places where that cancer might travel. We can inject these dyes into the bloodstream, so that when we do a new vessel and we bypass a blockage on the heart, we can see if we actually made the connection, before we close that patient back up again — something that we haven't been able to do without radiation before. We can light up tumors like this kidney tumor, so that you can exactly see where the boundary is between the kidney tumor and the kidney you want to leave behind, or the liver tumor and the liver you want to leave behind. And we don't even need to confine ourselves to this macro vision. We have flexible microscopic probes that we can bring down into the body. And we can look at cells directly. I'm looking at nerves here. So these are nerves you see, down on the bottom, and the microscope probe that's being held by the robotic hand, up at the top. So this is all very prototypey at this point. But you care about nerves, if you are a surgical patient. Because they let you keep continence, bladder control, and sexual function after surgery, all of which is generally fairly important to the patient. So, with the combination of these technologies we can reach it all, and we can see it all. We can heal the disease. And we can leave the patient whole and intact and functional afterwards. Now, I've talked about the patient as if the patient is, somehow, someone abstract outside this room. And that is not the case. Many of you, all of you maybe, will at some point, or have already, faced a diagnosis of cancer, or heart disease, or some organ dysfunction that's going to buy you a date with a surgeon. And when you get to that point — I mean, these maladies don't care how many books you've written, how many companies you've started, that Nobel Prize you have yet to win, how much time you planned to spend with your children. These maladies come for us all. And the prospect I'm offering you, of an easier surgery ... is that going to make that diagnosis any less terrifying? I'm not sure I really even want it to. Because facing your own mortality causes a re-evaluation of priorities, and a realignment of what your goals are in life, unlike anything else. And I would never want to deprive you of that epiphany. What I want instead, is for you to be whole, intact, and functional enough to go out and save the world, after you've decided you need to do it. And that is my vision for your future. Thank you. (Applause)"	"這是關於外科手術機器的演講,也是關於手術的演講在我試著不要讓畫面太血腥的同時請了解外科醫師對血有和一般人不一樣的情感關係畢竟外科醫師對病人所做的事如果沒有得到同意會是一項嚴重的罪行外科醫師是裁縫、是水電工是木匠，有些人會說他們是醫學界的屠夫做切割、重建、改造繞道、修補但是你必須要把手術的器具和手術科技的發展放在一起來討論 所以為了要讓你們稍稍了解手術用機器,目前發展到哪裡還有未來要往哪裡去我要讓你們有些概念我們是怎麼走到這一步的我們到底是怎麼樣開始相信動手術是可行的這件事是有可能做到的這樣的切割和重建是好的 所以，以下是一些觀點大約是一萬年以來的觀點這是一個做了頭顱穿洞術的頭骨,頭顱穿洞術就是在頭骨上切開一個洞在世界各地的考古遺址已經發現成千上百像這樣的頭骨年代可以回溯到一萬年前五千到一萬年前! 現在想像你是石器時代村落裡的治療師有一個病人你不是很確定他到底怎麼了(奧立佛薩克斯將在很久以後的未來才出生)他有癲癇的症狀。雖然你不知道是為什麼,但是你的腦子裡就想“我不是很確定他怎麼了，但是如果我在他的頭上開個洞，我就可以把他治好”(笑聲)這就是手術的想法 現在我們已經知道侵入式手術的開端是什麼真正讓我們驚奇的是即使我們不知道到底這樣的行為其中有多少是為了宗教的理由或者這裡頭有多少的目的是為了治療,我們知道的是這些病人都存活下來!從這些洞邊緣的瘉合狀況來看他們在環鋸手術後活了很多天、很多個月、甚至好幾年所以我們看到的是一種精湛技術的證據它在世界各地傳承了好幾千年它在各個地點的崛起是個自獨立的彼此沒有交流我們真正見到了侵入式手術的起源 現在我們可以快轉幾千年到銅器時代以及之後我們看到新的更精良的工具出土但是這個時期的外科醫師比起他們那些大膽、做環鋸手術的祖先要保守些這些人做的手術只限於相當表面的損傷而且外科醫師是工匠而不是醫生這狀況一直維持到文藝復興時代結束 那可能保全了作家但是對於拯救外科醫師的名聲卻沒有什麼貢獻他們仍舊是不被信任的一群外科醫師依然有些公關上的問題因為當時這個領域中稱霸的是四處巡迴的理髮師外科醫生這些人穿梭在城鎮之間動手術就好像是在種表演藝術,因為當時仍是麻醉存在之前的年代所以病人的強烈苦痛其實和手術本身同樣被大眾視為奇觀其中最出名的，雅各修士在這張圖上，正在進行截石術就是取出膀胱的結石在當時是侵入性最高的手術之一他必須在兩分鐘內做完所以你一定要很戲劇化的炫技,手法要非常地快 在這張畫裡，你可以看到雅各修士在做截石術,一般相信他在歐洲遊走做過超過四千場大庭廣眾下的手術當你的認知是手術一定是最後的手段時這個數字就十分驚人我的意思是有誰會願意經歷這過程？一直到麻醉這種讓病人沒有知覺的手段出現──1847年，在麻省總醫院莫爾頓示範乙醚吸入器後外科手術即被帶入一個全新的紀元麻醉給外科醫師開刀的自由麻醉給他們實驗的自由讓他們開始對人體進行更深入的探索這真的是手術的一大革新 但是這也帶來了一個蠻大的問題病人接受這些冗長又辛苦的手術目的就是為了要治癒他們以前根本無法碰觸的疾病但是完成後病人卻死了他們死於嚴重的感染手術雖然不再痛苦但是它可以迅速的致命且感染持續奪走大部份手術病人的生命一直到手術的下一個重大革新出現就是消毒滅菌技術 約瑟夫李斯特是無菌處理或消毒的最重要提倡者他對一些對此非常懷疑的外科醫生做宣導最後他們終於也改變立場梅約兄弟到歐洲來拜訪李斯特在他們回到美國的診所後說到他們學習到手術前洗手和手術後的清洗是一樣重要的這是多簡單的一件事但是，手術的致死率就因此明顯降低 這些手術事實上現在很有效在病人不感覺痛且在無菌手術室的狀況下一切都不一樣了，不再有限制現在你可以在任何地方動手術腸子、肝心臟、腦移植手術：你可以從一個人身上取出一個器官把它放到另一個人身上，仍可以運作外科醫生不再有聲望上的問題他們變成了神 “大外科醫生開大刀""的時代來臨但這也付出一定的代價因為他們雖然救了很多生命但卻不見得是有品質的生活這是因為健康的人通常不需開刀而不健康的人卻很難從這麼大的傷勢中復元這時我們就會問“嗯，我們是不是可進行同樣的手術但是不用這麼大的切口呢？”內視鏡檢查就是這類的手術醫師以一根很長的器械穿過很小的切口來進行手術,這真的改變了外科手術的視野其實有些內視鏡的器械已經存在約一百年了,但是它只被用來當作診斷的技術一直到 1980 年代當照相機及相關技術有重大突破後這些器械才得以實際應用於手術上, 你在這裡看到 ─ 這是第一張手術照片 ─我們沿著管子往下走，這是一個進入身體的新入口這和你期待的手術的樣子很不一樣我們分別從側面兩個切口把器械帶入,現在你就可以開始處理組織自從第一次膽囊手術使用內視鏡開始的十年內大部分的膽囊手術都是經由內視鏡手術完成這真的是一項很大的改革 但是這項改革也造成一些傷亡,內視鏡這項技術比一般人預期的,要難學習學習的時間很長且在學習期間併發症產生的機率偏高外科醫生要放棄原本 3D 的視覺他們要放棄它們的手腕他們要放棄使用工具的直覺式動作這位外科醫生有超過 3000 小時的內視鏡手術經驗從這段可以看到要把針放對很不容易這真的很困難為什麼這麼困難的原因之一是因為在體外器械操作的人體工學很糟糕,工具很長，你得偏離身體中線操作，而這些器械又主要是以反向操作, 所以你要做的，是在器械上置入類似手腕的關節，這樣就在小切口的另一側，利用手的靈巧度。所以在這 我有機會來聊聊手術用機器,達文西機器的設計,讓類似手腕的關節得以放到切口的另一邊,你在這可以看到這個關節的操作,現在，相對於內視鏡手術你可以準確的把針放到工具上而且讓針穿過整個組織，並讓針延著切口的軌跡縫合。為什麼會變得這麼容易是因為你可以在畫面下方看到,當手在移動時，工具可以精確的描摹手部的動作,你放在那些工具和那些手之間的是一台很大且相當複雜的機器,外科醫生坐在操縱臺用這些控制器來控制機器,在病人身體裡面，藉著操作機器,醫生得以移動手術器械，並給予動力,你會有個 3D 相機，所以你可以看到 3D 畫面 自從 1999 年問世以來生產了很多這類的機器,且用在外科手術上，像是攝護腺切除術就是說，攝護腺是為在骨盆內較深的地方所以它需要精細的切割並且要很小心地操作才能得到很好的手術結果你也可以不用打開胸腔就在跳動的心臟縫上繞道用的血管,這都是在肋骨之間完成的你可以進入心臟從內部修補瓣膜現在這些技術都有了— 謝謝 —(鼓掌)所以你可能會覺得，“哇! 這真酷!”“可是如果你真的這麼厲害，為什麼不是所有的手術都可以這樣做?”這是有原因的，有些理由很充分成本是其中之一 我說的是複雜的大型機器,為它那些花俏的附屬配件，一組機器的花費,幾乎跟一個真的頂尖外科醫師一樣,也許比外科醫師有用但是它還是一項龐大的投資不過一但你擁有它，手術程序上的成本的確會下降當然還是有其他的障礙存在所以像是攝護腺切除術攝護腺很小而且就位在一個點上你可以很精準地設定機器只在那一點上工作所以對這類手術是非常合適的事實上，如果你或你認識的人在過去這幾年中把攝護腺切除很可能就是用這其中的一種系統做的但是如果你的手術部位不只一個,你就需要移動機器而且你會需要新的切口你需要重新設定你會需要增加更多的連接點以及其他的物件問題就出在時間變長，且笨重難處理 就因為這原因，所以有很多手術不用達文西來進行這樣我們就會問，“要怎麼解決呢?”如果我們可以把它變成當移動到不同位置時可以不用重新設定會怎麼樣?如果我們可以把所有的工具都帶到同一個位置會怎麼樣?這些會對外科醫生的能力有什麼改變?這些對病患的經歷又有什麼影響?要做到這我們要能帶著相機和工具一起經過一條小小的管子進入就像你在內視鏡手術影片中看到的或是，跟現在畫面上看到的管子一樣。 所以從那條管子出來的就是這個新技術的處女秀這個新的機器人將可以到達任何地方準備好了嗎? 好，現在開始囉這個是相機，和三種工具你可以看到他們伸出來為了要能真的做些有用的事它們不能像這樣擠在一起要可以離開中線也要可以往中線回移它就是那個厚臉皮的小鬼但是它可以讓你做的就是給你所有重要的牽引和抗牽引這樣你才可以切開、縫合可以做所有你要做的事跟所有的手術工作然而，手術都只透過一個切口進行，並不是這麼簡單,卻因為這樣的設計，讓我們能自由的移動器械，一切都是值得的然而對病患來說它很清楚簡單。他們就只會看到的這個部份 想想看我們可以用這來做什麼，就令人很興奮我們可以為手術的下一個革新寫劇本當我們在運用這些能力的同時，我們可以到下一境界我們可以決定新的手術是什麼我想，要真的達到改革的新境界我們不但是要往新方向著手我們也要開拓新的視野我們要能看穿表面我們要能對切割做更好的指引 這是一個癌症手術這裡發生的問題之一就是你看不到癌症即使是經驗老到的外科醫生也一樣特別是當它藏在表面下所以我們一開始要做的就是要注射特殊設計的標記到血液中，它會以癌症為標記目標移動並附著到癌細胞上，我們可以讓這些標記發光然後我們用特殊的相機來觀察它現在我們就知道要在哪裡切割即便是它在表面下我們可以把這些標記注射到癌症部位然後我們就可以追蹤，看它們從癌症部位流向何處這樣我們就知道癌細胞可能最先轉移到哪裡我們可以把這些染劑注入到血液中這樣，當我們在縫合新血管或是在有梗塞的心臟上做繞道手術時，我們就可以在病患縫合前看到是不是有接通這些是我們以前沒有辦法不靠放射線才能做到的事我們可以讓腫瘤發光像這個腎臟腫瘤這樣就可以清楚的看到哪裡是腎腫瘤和要保留的腎臟部位間的界線或是肝腫瘤和要保留部位的肝臟 我們甚至不需要把自己侷限在這肉眼可見的地方我們有很靈活的顯微探針可以深入體內這樣我們可以直接觀察細胞現在看到的是神經，你看到的下方是神經然後上面的是機械手拿著的顯微探針這目前仍舊是最初期的發展型態但如果你是動手術的病患，你會擔心神經因為它讓你在手術後仍保有控制力控制膀胱以及性功能等對病患來說這些一切都是很重要的 所以，有了這些技術的組合我們就可以到想到的地方、看要看的東西我們可以治癒疾病而且我們讓病患維持整體及完整並在術後功能正常現在我所描述的病患好像是這個房間外面某個模糊抽象的個體其實不是這樣你們之中很多人、可能所有的人會在將來某時間點，或已經面對了癌症、心臟病、或其他器官不正常的診斷那就給了你和外科醫生約會的機會當你到了那個時候 —我是說，這些疾病是不會管你寫了多少書創立了幾個公司還沒獲得諾貝爾獎計畫要花多少時間陪伴你的小孩這些疾病我們每個人都可能發生 那我所提供的這些比較簡易手術的希望真的會讓這些診斷變得比較不可怕嗎?我不知道我是不是真的想這樣因為面對你自己的死亡讓你重新檢視事物的優先順序以及重新定位人生的目標，這是其他事無法做到的我也不想剝奪你覺悟的權利我反而想要在你決定你需要這些手術後你可以保持整體、完整而且功能正常足以到外面去拯救世界這就是我所看見的各位的未來謝謝大家(鼓掌)"
