Talk	en	zh-tw
chade_meng_tan_everyday_compassion_at_google	"So what does the happiest man in the world look like? He certainly doesn't look like me. He looks like this. His name is Matthieu Ricard. So how do you get to be the happiest man in the world? Well it turns out there is a way to measure happiness in the brain. And you do that by measuring the relative activation of the left prefrontal cortex in the fMRI, versus the right prefrontal cortex. And Matthieu's happiness measure is off the charts. He's by far the happiest man ever measured by science. Which leads us to a question: What was he thinking when he was being measured? Perhaps something very naughty. (Laughter) Actually, he was meditating on compassion. Matthieu's own experience is that compassion is the happiest state ever. Reading about Matthieu was one of the pivotal moments of my life. My dream is to create the conditions for world peace in my lifetime — and to do that by creating the conditions for inner peace and compassion on a global scale. And learning about Matthieu gave me a new angle to look at my work. Matthieu's brain scan shows that compassion is not a chore. Compassion is something that creates happiness. Compassion is fun. And that mind-blowing insight changes the entire game. Because if compassion was a chore, nobody's going to do it, except maybe the Dalai Lama or something. But if compassion was fun, everybody's going to do it. Therefore, to create the conditions for global compassion, all we have to do is to reframe compassion as something that is fun. But fun is not enough. What if compassion is also profitable? What if compassion is also good for business? Then, every boss, every manager in the world, will want to have compassion — like this. That would create the conditions for world peace. So, I started paying attention to what compassion looks like in a business setting. Fortunately, I didn't have to look very far. Because what I was looking for was right in front of my eyes — in Google, my company. I know there are other compassionate companies in the world, but Google is the place I'm familiar with because I've been there for 10 years, so I'll use Google as the case study. Google is a company born of idealism. It's a company that thrives on idealism. And maybe because of that, compassion is organic and widespread company-wide. In Google, expressions of corporate compassion almost always follow the same pattern. It's sort of a funny pattern. It starts with a small group of Googlers taking the initiative to do something. And they don't usually ask for permission; they just go ahead and do it, and then other Googlers join in, and it just gets bigger and bigger. And sometimes it gets big enough to become official. So in other words, it almost always starts from the bottom up. And let me give you some examples. The first example is the largest annual community event — where Googlers from around the world donate their labor to their local communities — was initiated and organized by three employees before it became official, because it just became too big. Another example, three Googlers — a chef, an engineer and, most funny, a massage therapist — three of them, they learned about a region in India where 200,000 people live without a single medical facility. So what do they do? They just go ahead and start a fundraiser. And they raise enough money to build this hospital — the first hospital of its kind for 200,000 people. During the Haiti earthquake, a number of engineers and product managers spontaneously came together and stayed overnight to build a tool to allow earthquake victims to find their loved ones. And expressions of compassion are also found in our international offices. In China for example, one mid-level employee initiated the largest social action competition in China, involving more than 1,000 schools in China, working on issues such as education, poverty, health care and the environment. There is so much organic social action all around Google that the company decided to form a social responsibility team just to support these efforts. And this idea, again, came from the grassroots, from two Googlers who wrote their own job descriptions and volunteered themselves for the job. And I found it fascinating that the social responsibility team was not formed as part of some grand corporate strategy. It was two persons saying, ""Let's do this,"" and the company said, ""Yes."" So it turns out that Google is a compassionate company, because Googlers found compassion to be fun. But again, fun is not enough. There are also real business benefits. So what are they? The first benefit of compassion is that it creates highly effective business leaders. What does that mean? There are three components of compassion. There is the affective component, which is, ""I feel for you."" There is the cognitive component, which is, ""I understand you."" And there is a motivational component, which is, ""I want to help you."" So what has this got to do with business leadership? According to a very comprehensive study led by Jim Collins, and documented in the book ""Good to Great,"" it takes a very special kind of leader to bring a company from goodness to greatness. And he calls them ""Level 5 leaders."" These are leaders who, in addition to being highly capable, possess two important qualities, and they are humility and ambition. These are leaders who are highly ambitious for the greater good. And because they're ambitious for a greater good, they feel no need to inflate their own egos. And they, according to the research, make the best business leaders. And if you look at these qualities in the context of compassion, we find that the cognitive and affective components of compassion — understanding people and empathizing with people — inhibits, tones down, what I call the excessive self-obsession that's in us, therefore creating the conditions for humility. The motivational component of compassion creates ambition for greater good. In other words, compassion is the way to grow Level 5 leaders. And this is the first compelling business benefit. The second compelling benefit of compassion is that it creates an inspiring workforce. Employees mutually inspire each other towards greater good. It creates a vibrant, energetic community where people admire and respect each other. I mean, you come to work in the morning, and you work with three guys who just up and decide to build a hospital in India. It's like how can you not be inspired by those people — your own coworkers? So this mutual inspiration promotes collaboration, initiative and creativity. It makes us a highly effective company. So, having said all that, what is the secret formula for brewing compassion in the corporate setting? In our experience, there are three ingredients. The first ingredient is to create a culture of passionate concern for the greater good. So always think: how is your company and your job serving the greater good? Or, how can you further serve the greater good? This awareness of serving the greater good is very self-inspiring and it creates fertile ground for compassion to grow in. That's one. The second ingredient is autonomy. So in Google, there's a lot of autonomy. And one of our most popular managers jokes that, this is what he says, ""Google is a place where the inmates run the asylum."" And he considers himself one of the inmates. If you already have a culture of compassion and idealism and you let your people roam free, they will do the right thing in the most compassionate way. The third ingredient is to focus on inner development and personal growth. Leadership training in Google, for example, places a lot of emphasis on the inner qualities, such as self-awareness, self-mastery, empathy and compassion, because we believe that leadership begins with character. We even created a seven-week curriculum on emotion intelligence, which we jokingly call ""Searching Inside Yourself."" It's less naughty than it sounds. So I'm an engineer by training, but I'm one of the creators and instructors of this course, which I find kind of funny, because this is a company that trusts an engineer to teach emotion intelligence. What a company. (Laughter) So ""Search Inside Yourself"" — how does it work? It works in three steps. The first step is attention training. Attention is the basis of all higher cognitive and emotional abilities. Therefore, any curriculum for training emotion intelligence has to begin with attention training. The idea here is to train attention to create a quality of mind that is calm and clear at the same time. And this creates the foundation for emotion intelligence. The second step follows the first step. The second step is developing self-knowledge and self-mastery. So using the supercharged attention from step one, we create a high-resolution perception into the cognitive and emotive processes. What does that mean? It means being able to observe our thought stream and the process of emotion with high clarity, objectivity and from a third-person perspective. And once you can do that, you create the kind of self-knowledge that enables self-mastery. The third step, following the second step, is to create new mental habits. What does that mean? Imagine this. Imagine whenever you meet any other person, any time you meet a person, your habitual, instinctive first thought is, ""I want you to be happy. I want you to be happy."" Imagine you can do that. Having this habit, this mental habit, changes everything at work. Because this good will is unconsciously picked up by other people, and it creates trust, and trust creates a lot of good working relationships. And this also creates the conditions for compassion in the workplace. Someday, we hope to open-source ""Search Inside Yourself"" so that everybody in the corporate world will at least be able to use it as a reference. And in closing, I want to end the same place I started, with happiness. I want to quote this guy — the guy in robes, not the other guy — the Dalai Lama, who said, ""If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion."" I found this to be true, both on the individual level and at a corporate level. And I hope that compassion will be both fun and profitable for you too. Thank you. (Applause)"	一個世上最快樂的人應該是怎樣的?他一定不會長得像我。他長得像這樣。他叫 Mattieu Ricard你可以怎樣成為世上最快樂的人?原來大腦中的快樂是有辦法去測量的。就是在功能性磁力共振機中去測量左前額皮層和右前額皮層的相對活躍度。而 Mattieu 的快樂指數是完全超出了圖表所顯示的。他是到目前爲止經由科學鑑定最快樂的人。這不禁讓我們要問:在他被測試的時候, 究竟他在想什麼呢?會不會是一些很頑皮可笑的東西？（笑聲）事實上, 他在襌修冥想著慈悲。Matthieu 個人的經驗慈悲就是他最快樂的狀態。 在閱讀Mattieu 著作的時候也是我人生很重要的時刻。我的夢想就是在我人生之中去創造世界和平的條件—-透過創造內在和平以及慈悲的條件在全球的層面上去創造世界和平的條件在學習Matthieu的同時也給了我一個全新的角度去看待我的工作。馬修的腦掃描顯示慈悲並不是乏味的例行工作。慈悲是一些可以創造快樂的事。慈悲是有趣的。而這令人興奮的發現改變了遊戲規則。因為如果慈悲是一件乏味的例行公事或許除了逹賴喇嘛這一類人之外—沒有人會有興趣去做。但如果慈悲是有趣的,每個人都會願意去做。所以,要為世界的慈悲創造條件,我們可以做的就是把慈悲重新定義為是很有趣的事。 但純粹的有趣還是不足够的。如果慈悲可以帶來利潤呢?如果慈悲對營商來說是好的呢?那麼, 世上每一個老闆, 每一個經理,都會想有這樣的—慈悲。這會為世界和平創造條件。於是, 我開始留意在商業環境下的慈悲究竟該是怎樣。幸運的是, 我並不需要看得很遠。因為我想找的, 正在我的眼前—-在谷歌, 我的公司。 我知道世上也有其他有慈心的公司,但谷歌是一個我很熟悉的地方因為我在那裡已經待了十年了,我用谷歌作為一個研究個案。谷歌是一個生於理想主義的公司。它是一間在理想主義中長大的公司。也因為這樣,這個慈悲是有機的也滲透在整個公司之中。在谷歌, 公司慈悲為懷之心的表達差不多總在相同的模式之中。是種很有趣的模式。通常是由一小群谷歌人開始自發地去做一些事。他們通常不需要得到別人的許可只是直接的去做便可接著有其他的谷歌人加入, 慢慢的變大再變大。直到足够壯大的時候便會變成了官方正式的規定。換句話說,差不多許多事都是從下而上開始的。 讓我給你一些例子。第一個例子是每年最大型的社區活動—-全世界的谷歌人都會在當地的社區捐獻出他們的勞力—-在這變成正式之前其實是由三個僱員自發的組織起來的—-因為規模變得太大了。另一個例子, 三個谷歌人—-一個廚子, 一個工程師以及, 最有趣的, 一個按摩治療師—-他們三個人, 知道在印度一個大約有二十萬人居住的地區卻沒有一間醫療的設施。於是他們做了什麽?他們直接地去籌款他們籌得足够的錢去建成一間醫院—-這是第一間像這樣的給這二十萬人的醫院。在海地地震的時候,一群工程師及產品經理自發地聚在一起並且通宵留宿去建造一個讓地震的災民可以找到他們所愛的人的工具。同樣的慈悲的表達在我們的國際事務辦事處也有。 譬如在中國一個中層員工提出了一個全中國最大的社會行動比賽當中包括了中國一千多間學校一同去參與教育、脫窮醫療衞生、以及環境等問題。在谷歌裡有許多這樣的自發性有機性的社會行動這使得公司決定去成立一個社會責任團隊來支援這些工作。同樣的, 這些想法也是從基層而來是由兩個谷歌人, 他們寫了這些工作的清單然後自己義務去做這些工作。我覺得這些都很有趣這個社會責任團隊並不是由一個高高在上的公司策略而來的。這只是由兩個人說: 「讓我們來做，」公司也說: 「好！」於是便出現了谷歌是一間慈悲的公司，因為谷歌人覺得慈悲是有趣的。 但同樣, 光有趣是不足够的。這裡也有真實的商業利益。這些是什麼?慈悲的第一個利益是它創造了一些高效能的商業領袖。這是什麼意思?慈悲是有三個部份的：這裡有情感的部份「我同情你。」這裡也有理性認知的部份,「我明白你。」以及也有一個誘導性的部份,「我想幫你。」這些又跟商業領袖有什麼關係呢?根據一個十分詳盡由Jim Collins 所帶領的研究顯示這還紀載在一本叫: 『由好到偉大』的書中有一種十分特別的領袖類型可以帶領公司由好變成偉大。他把他們叫做 「第五層的領袖」這些領袖除了是很有能力之外同時也擁有兩種特質這些特質是謙虛和野心。這些領袖對於為大眾的好處是非常的有野心的。也因為他們對大眾的好處很有野心,他們感到無需要去膨脹他們的自我,以及, 根據研究他們變成了最好的商業領袖。假如在慈悲的背景之下,你看到這些特質我們會發現慈悲裡的認知和情感部份—-明白別人, 以及同情別人會抑制, 調低我所謂的“過度的自我執著”—這也同時創造了謙虛的條件。 至於慈悲的誘導性部份也創造了為了大眾利益的企圖心。換句話說,慈悲是孕育第五層領袖的方法。這是第一個令人難以抗拒的商業利益。第二個從慈悲而來的難以抗拒的好處是它創造了一些很有啟發性的勞動力。僱員往往會互相啟發去達成那個更偉大的好。它創造了一個生氣勃勃和有能量的社群那裡的人都會互相欣賞和尊重。譬如說, 你在早上來到公司跟三個剛決定去為印度建一間醫院的人共事。你怎麽不會被這些人也就是你自己的同事所啓發?所以, 這種相互啟發會提高合作,自發性和創造力。這就讓我們變成了一間十分高效能的公司 所以, 說了這麽多,那麽在企業的環境之中去培育慈悲心的秘密方程式是什麽?根據我們的經驗,這是有三個元素第一個元素是去創造一個慈悲為懷的文化為了更大的好所以要常常去想你的公司, 你的工作可以怎樣去為更大的“好”來服務?或是, 你怎樣可以更進一步去為更大的“好”服務?這些去為更大的好去服務的醒悟其實是十分自我啟發的這也提供了一個讓慈悲文化萌芽的土壤。這是第一個 第二個元素是自主性。在谷歌裡, 有很多的自主性。其中我們一個最受歡迎的經理, 常開玩笑說這是他說的:「谷歌是一個由病友去管理的精神病院。」他也自認為是其中一個病友。假如你已經有慈悲心的文化以及理想主義,你能讓你的僱員自由,他們便會以最慈悲的方法去做對的事。 第三個元素是去關注他們的內在成長以及個人成長。譬如說，在谷歌的領袖訓練,十分重視個人的內在質素,像是自覺性, 自我管理,同理心以及慈悲心等,因為我們相信領導的才能是由性格開始的。我們甚至設計了一個七星期關於情緒智能的課程我們都開玩笑的叫這課程為「尋找你內在的自己」其實它不如聽起來的佻皮。我原本是工程師出身,但我是這課程的設計者和導師之一,我個人覺得這很有趣,因為公司十分信任工程師可以去教情緒智能。這是什麼公司呀！ （笑聲） 這個“尋找你內在的自己”—-是怎樣做到的?有三個步驟第一步是專注力的訓練。專注力是所有更高層次的認知和情緒能力的基本。所以, 任何的訓練情緒智能的課程都是由訓練專注力開始。背後的想法是, 由訓練專注力去創造一個高素質的同時也是平靜和清徹的心靈。而這也創造了情緒智商的基礎。第二步是接著第一步而來 第二步是發展自我認知以及自我管理當用上第一步所學到的超能專注力,我們就可以在認知和情緒的過程中創建一個高清的接收視野。這是什麼意思?這是說我們可以內觀自己的思想流程以及情緒的過程十分清晰客觀地,就好像從第三者的角度一樣的。當你能做到的時候,你便能創造那種可以掌管自己的自我認知。 第三步, 跟隨著第二步來的去創造一個全新的精神習慣這是什麼意思？試著去想:想像當你遇見別人每一次你遇見別人的時候你的習慣, 當下的第一意念就是: 「我希望你快樂我希望你快樂。」想像你能做到。有了這個習慣, 這個精神的習慣就可以改變工作中的一切。因為這份很好的心意是會在不知不覺中的讓別人感受到,而當中便成了信任,信任也創造了許多很好的合作關係。這也創造了在工作場中的慈悲心的條件。我們也希望有一天可以公開「這尋找你內在的自己」的課程内容讓在企業世界裏的每個人至少都可以用作為一個參考。 在結束之前,我想回到我開始所說的關於快樂:我想引用這個穿袈裟的人的話達賴喇嘛他說: 「如果你想讓別人快樂練習慈悲心如果你想變得快樂練習慈悲心」我覺得這是真的,不論在個人的層面還是企業的層面。我希望這慈悲心對你來說, 也同時是有趣和帶來利益的。 謝謝 （掌聲）
