Talk	en	zh-tw
charles_leadbeater_on_education	"It's a great pleasure to be here. It's a great pleasure to speak after Brian Cox from CERN. I think CERN is the home of the Large Hadron Collider. What ever happened to the Small Hadron Collider? Where is the Small Hadron Collider? Because the Small Hadron Collider once was the big thing. Now, the Small Hadron Collider is in a cupboard, overlooked and neglected. You know when the Large Hadron Collider started, and it didn't work, and people tried to work out why, it was the Small Hadron Collider team who sabotaged it because they were so jealous. The whole Hadron Collider family needs unlocking. The lesson of Brian's presentation, in a way — all those fantastic pictures — is this really: that vantage point determines everything that you see. What Brian was saying was science has opened up successively different vantage points from which we can see ourselves, and that's why it's so valuable. So the vantage point you take determines virtually everything that you will see. The question that you will ask will determine much of the answer that you get. And so if you ask this question: Where would you look to see the future of education? The answer that we've traditionally given to that is very straightforward, at least in the last 20 years: You go to Finland. Finland is the best place in the world to see school systems. The Finns may be a bit boring and depressive and there's a very high suicide rate, but by golly, they are qualified. And they have absolutely amazing education systems. So we all troop off to Finland, and we wonder at the social democratic miracle of Finland and its cultural homogeneity and all the rest of it, and then we struggle to imagine how we might bring lessons back. Well, so, for this last year, with the help of Cisco who sponsored me, for some balmy reason, to do this, I've been looking somewhere else. Because actually radical innovation does sometimes come from the very best, but it often comes from places where you have huge need — unmet, latent demand — and not enough resources for traditional solutions to work — traditional, high-cost solutions, which depend on professionals, which is what schools and hospitals are. So I ended up in places like this. This is a place called Monkey Hill. It's one of the hundreds of favelas in Rio. Most of the population growth of the next 50 years will be in cities. We'll grow by six cities of 12 million people a year for the next 30 years. Almost all of that growth will be in the developed world. Almost all of that growth will be in places like Monkey Hill. This is where you'll find the fastest growing young populations of the world. So if you want recipes to work — for virtually anything — health, education, government politics and education — you have to go to these places. And if you go to these places, you meet people like this. This is a guy called Juanderson. At the age of 14, in common with many 14-year-olds in the Brazilian education system, he dropped out of school. It was boring. And Juanderson, instead, went into what provided kind of opportunity and hope in the place that he lived, which was the drugs trade. And by the age of 16, with rapid promotion, he was running the drugs trade in 10 favelas. He was turning over 200,000 dollars a week. He employed 200 people. He was going to be dead by the age of 25. And luckily, he met this guy, who is Rodrigo Baggio, the owner of the first laptop to ever appear in Brazil. 1994, Rodrigo started something called CDI, which took computers donated by corporations, put them into community centers in favelas and created places like this. What turned Juanderson around was technology for learning that made learning fun and accessible. Or you can go to places like this. This is Kibera, which is the largest slum in East Africa. Millions of people living here, stretched over many kilometers. And there I met these two, Azra on the left, Maureen on the right. They just finished their Kenyan certificate of secondary education. That name should tell you that the Kenyan education system borrows almost everything from Britain, circa 1950, but has managed to make it even worse. So there are schools in slums like this. They're places like this. That's where Maureen went to school. They're private schools. There are no state schools in slums. And the education they got was pitiful. It was in places like this. This a school set up by some nuns in another slum called Nakuru. Half the children in this classroom have no parents because they've died through AIDS. The other half have one parent because the other parent has died through AIDS. So the challenges of education in this kind of place are not to learn the kings and queens of Kenya or Britain. They are to stay alive, to earn a living, to not become HIV positive. The one technology that spans rich and poor in places like this is not anything to do with industrial technology. It's not to do with electricity or water. It's the mobile phone. If you want to design from scratch virtually any service in Africa, you would start now with the mobile phone. Or you could go to places like this. This is a place called the Madangiri Settlement Colony, which is a very developed slum about 25 minutes outside New Delhi, where I met these characters who showed me around for the day. The remarkable thing about these girls, and the sign of the kind of social revolution sweeping through the developing world is that these girls are not married. Ten years ago, they certainly would have been married. Now they're not married, and they want to go on to study further, to have a career. They've been brought up by mothers who are illiterate, who have never ever done homework. All across the developing world there are millions of parents — tens, hundreds of millions — who for the first time are with children doing homework and exams. And the reason they carry on studying is not because they went to a school like this. This is a private school. This is a fee-pay school. This is a good school. This is the best you can get in Hyderabad in Indian education. The reason they went on studying was this. This is a computer installed in the entrance to their slum by a revolutionary social entrepreneur called Sugata Mitra who has conducted the most radical experiments, showing that children, in the right conditions, can learn on their own with the help of computers. Those girls have never touched Google. They know nothing about Wikipedia. Imagine what their lives would be like if you could get that to them. So if you look, as I did, through this tour, and by looking at about a hundred case studies of different social entrepreneurs working in these very extreme conditions, look at the recipes that they come up with for learning, they look nothing like school. What do they look like? Well, education is a global religion. And education, plus technology, is a great source of hope. You can go to places like this. This is a school three hours outside of Sao Paulo. Most of the children there have parents who are illiterate. Many of them don't have electricity at home. But they find it completely obvious to use computers, websites, make videos, so on and so forth. When you go to places like this what you see is that education in these settings works by pull, not push. Most of our education system is push. I was literally pushed to school. When you get to school, things are pushed at you: knowledge, exams, systems, timetables. If you want to attract people like Juanderson who could, for instance, buy guns, wear jewelry, ride motorbikes and get girls through the drugs trade, and you want to attract him into education, having a compulsory curriculum doesn't really make sense. That isn't really going to attract him. You need to pull him. And so education needs to work by pull, not push. And so the idea of a curriculum is completely irrelevant in a setting like this. You need to start education from things that make a difference to them in their settings. What does that? Well, the key is motivation, and there are two aspects to it. One is to deliver extrinsic motivation, that education has a payoff. Our education systems all work on the principle that there is a payoff, but you have to wait quite a long time. That's too long if you're poor. Waiting 10 years for the payoff from education is too long when you need to meet daily needs, when you've got siblings to look after or a business to help with. So you need education to be relevant and help people to make a living there and then, often. And you also need to make it intrinsically interesting. So time and again, I found people like this. This is an amazing guy, Sebastiao Rocha, in Belo Horizonte, in the third largest city in Brazil. He's invented more than 200 games to teach virtually any subject under the sun. In the schools and communities that Taio works in, the day always starts in a circle and always starts from a question. Imagine an education system that started from questions, not from knowledge to be imparted, or started from a game, not from a lesson, or started from the premise that you have to engage people first before you can possibly teach them. Our education systems, you do all that stuff afterward, if you're lucky, sport, drama, music. These things, they teach through. They attract people to learning because it's really a dance project or a circus project or, the best example of all — El Sistema in Venezuela — it's a music project. And so you attract people through that into learning, not adding that on after all the learning has been done and you've eaten your cognitive greens. So El Sistema in Venezuela uses a violin as a technology of learning. Taio Rocha uses making soap as a technology of learning. And what you find when you go to these schemes is that they use people and places in incredibly creative ways. Masses of peer learning. How do you get learning to people when there are no teachers, when teachers won't come, when you can't afford them, and even if you do get teachers, what they teach isn't relevant to the communities that they serve? Well, you create your own teachers. You create peer-to-peer learning, or you create para-teachers, or you bring in specialist skills. But you find ways to get learning that's relevant to people through technology, people and places that are different. So this is a school in a bus on a building site in Pune, the fastest growing city in Asia. Pune has 5,000 building sites. It has 30,000 children on those building sites. That's one city. Imagine that urban explosion that's going to take place across the developing world and how many thousands of children will spend their school years on building sites. Well, this is a very simple scheme to get the learning to them through a bus. And they all treat learning, not as some sort of academic, analytical activity, but as that's something that's productive, something you make, something that you can do, perhaps earn a living from. So I met this character, Steven. He'd spent three years in Nairobi living on the streets because his parents had died of AIDS. And he was finally brought back into school, not by the offer of GCSEs, but by the offer of learning how to become a carpenter, a practical making skill. So the trendiest schools in the world, High Tech High and others, they espouse a philosophy of learning as productive activity. Here, there isn't really an option. Learning has to be productive in order for it to make sense. And finally, they have a different model of scale, and it's a Chinese restaurant model of how to scale. And I learned it from this guy, who is an amazing character. He's probably the most remarkable social entrepreneur in education in the world. His name is Madhav Chavan, and he created something called Pratham. And Pratham runs preschool play groups for, now, 21 million children in India. It's the largest NGO in education in the world. And it also supports working-class kids going into Indian schools. He's a complete revolutionary. He's actually a trade union organizer by background, and that's how he learned the skills to build his organization. When they got to a certain stage, Pratham got big enough to attract some pro bono support from McKinsey. McKinsey came along and looked at his model and said, ""You know what you should do with this, Madhav? You should turn it into McDonald's. And what you do when you go to any new site is you kind of roll out a franchise. And it's the same wherever you go. It's reliable and people know exactly where they are. And there will be no mistakes."" And Madhav said, ""Why do we have to do it that way? Why can't we do it more like the Chinese restaurants?"" There are Chinese restaurants everywhere, but there is no Chinese restaurant chain. Yet, everyone knows what is a Chinese restaurant. They know what to expect, even though it'll be subtly different and the colors will be different and the name will be different. You know a Chinese restaurant when you see it. These people work with the Chinese restaurant model — same principles, different applications and different settings — not the McDonald's model. The McDonald's model scales. The Chinese restaurant model spreads. So mass education started with social entrepreneurship in the 19th century. And that's desperately what we need again on a global scale. And what can we learn from all of that? Well, we can learn a lot because our education systems are failing desperately in many ways. They fail to reach the people they most need to serve. They often hit their target but miss the point. Improvement is increasingly difficult to organize; our faith in these systems, incredibly fraught. And this is just a very simple way of understanding what kind of innovation, what kind of different design we need. There are two basic types of innovation. There's sustaining innovation, which will sustain an existing institution or an organization, and disruptive innovation that will break it apart, create some different way of doing it. There are formal settings — schools, colleges, hospitals — in which innovation can take place, and informal settings — communities, families, social networks. Almost all our effort goes in this box, sustaining innovation in formal settings, getting a better version of the essentially Bismarckian school system that developed in the 19th century. And as I said, the trouble with this is that, in the developing world there just aren't teachers to make this model work. You'd need millions and millions of teachers in China, India, Nigeria and the rest of developing world to meet need. And in our system, we know that simply doing more of this won't eat into deep educational inequalities, especially in inner cities and former industrial areas. So that's why we need three more kinds of innovation. We need more reinvention. And all around the world now you see more and more schools reinventing themselves. They're recognizably schools, but they look different. There are Big Picture schools in the U.S. and Australia. There are Kunskapsskolan schools in Sweden. Of 14 of them, only two of them are in schools. Most of them are in other buildings not designed as schools. There is an amazing school in Northen Queensland called Jaringan. And they all have the same kind of features: highly collaborative, very personalized, often pervasive technology, learning that starts from questions and problems and projects, not from knowledge and curriculum. So we certainly need more of that. But because so many of the issues in education aren't just in school, they're in family and community, what you also need, definitely, is more on the right hand side. You need efforts to supplement schools. The most famous of these is Reggio Emilia in Italy, the family-based learning system to support and encourage people in schools. The most exciting is the Harlem Children's Zone, which over 10 years, led by Geoffrey Canada, has, through a mixture of schooling and family and community projects, attempted to transform not just education in schools, but the entire culture and aspiration of about 10,000 families in Harlem. We need more of that completely new and radical thinking. You can go to places an hour away, less, from this room, just down the road, which need that, which need radicalism of a kind that we haven't imagined. And finally, you need transformational innovation that could imagine getting learning to people in completely new and different ways. So we are on the verge, 2015, of an amazing achievement, the schoolification of the world. Every child up to the age of 15 who wants a place in school will be able to have one in 2015. It's an amazing thing. But it is, unlike cars, which have developed so rapidly and orderly, actually the school system is recognizably an inheritance from the 19th century, from a Bismarkian model of German schooling that got taken up by English reformers, and often by religious missionaries, taken up in the United States as a force of social cohesion, and then in Japan and South Korea as they developed. It's recognizably 19th century in its roots. And of course it's a huge achievement. And of course it will bring great things. It will bring skills and learning and reading. But it will also lay waste to imagination. It will lay waste to appetite. It will lay waste to social confidence. It will stratify society as much as it liberates it. And we are bequeathing to the developing world school systems that they will now spend a century trying to reform. That is why we need really radical thinking, and why radical thinking is now more possible and more needed than ever in how we learn. Thank you. (Applause)"	非常榮幸來到這裡非常榮幸能夠接在歐洲核子研究組織的布賴恩．科克斯之後演講歐洲核子研究組織是大型強子對撞機的基地那麼，小型強子對撞機怎麼了？跑到哪裡去了？小型強子對撞機曾經轟動一時現在被收到櫃子裡去了被大家忽略、遺忘了大型強子對撞機方案實行初期並未成功，工作人員開始找原因結果居然是小型強子對撞機小組在暗中搞破壞因為他們實在太嫉妒了整個強子研究團隊需要彼此開誠佈公 布賴恩的演講和強子研究的願景告訴我們對事情的觀點決定一切布賴恩的意思是科學不斷發現新的觀點我們藉此認識自己這也是科學的可貴所以你對事物的觀點決定了自己眼前所見你所提出的問題也會決定將得到的答案 如果你問的是教育的未來在哪裡？通常我們得到的回答是很直接的，至少過去二十年是如此看看芬蘭好了芬蘭有全世界最好的教育制度芬蘭人或許不大有趣、陰鬱、自殺率又高但他們的確都有高學歷芬蘭的教育制度真是非常了不起大家前仆後繼前往朝聖芬蘭的社會民主主義奇蹟文化同質性高，一切都令人驚艷我們努力思索該怎麼把所見所聞帶回來 所以去年一年裡思科系統公司不知發了什麼瘋願意贊助我做這件事我本來是去其他地方尋找教育的未來因為根本的創新有時候的確是源自於菁英份子但根本的創新常是來自有許多迫切需求的地方這些需求沒獲得滿足也無足夠資源供傳統方法解決問題傳統方法往往需要高成本必須倚重專業人士學校和醫院就是採用這種模式 所以我最後來到這裡這是Monkey Hill里約熱內盧眾多貧民區之一未來五十年大部分的人口成長將集中在都市未來30年內，全球每年將增加7200萬人絕大部分集中在開發中國家其中又有絕大部分的人口成長會集中在像Monkey Hill這樣的地方不難發現這裡會是全球青壯人口成長最快的地方因此，若想要找解決方案無論是醫療、教育還是政治的層面特別是教育就得深入這些貧民區你到了這些地方，就會遇到這些人 這個孩子名叫Juanderson他14歲他跟巴西許多十四歲的孩子一樣最後輟學了因為學校太無聊了於是Juanderson選擇從事可帶來一絲機會和希望的工作在那裡，指的就是毒品交易隨著生意愈做愈大，他十六歲時就掌管十個貧民區的毒品交易，一週的交易額高達20萬美元。手下有兩百個人本來他25歲就會死了但幸好遇見了這個人他是羅德里戈‧巴吉歐巴西第一個擁有筆電的人羅德里戈在1994成立了資訊科技民主化委員會(CDI)他們把一些企業捐贈的電腦送給貧民區的社區中心設立許多像這樣的地方使Juanderson人生轉變的是輔助學習的科技使學習變得有趣，不再遙不可及 或你也可以到這裡這是基貝拉，東非最大的貧民區有數百萬人住在這裡範圍綿延好幾公里我遇見兩位女孩左邊是阿玆拉，右邊是莫琳他們剛拿到肯亞中學教育證書從「中學教育」一詞，不難了解肯亞的教育體系幾乎全部都是移植自英國，1950年起便是如此這反而使肯亞的教育每下愈況於是貧民區出現了這樣的學校像這樣的地方這是莫琳念的學校全是私立學校，貧民區裡沒有公立學校她們所受的教育真是處境堪憐就是在這些地方...畫面上這個學校是修女創辦位在另一個叫納庫魯的貧民區這教室裡半數的學生父母雙亡都死於愛滋病另一半的學生則來自單親家庭因為他們的父親或母親同樣死於愛滋病所以教育所面臨的困難特別在這種地方並非教學生認識肯亞或英國的歷任王室而是要學習如何活下來，如何討生活如何不染上愛滋病可以跨越貧富差距的科技在這樣的地方只找得到一樣不是工業科技也不是電力或自來水而是行動電話假設你想從頭開始規劃非洲的服務設施行動電話會是第一選擇或如果你到這樣的地方 這是印度的Madangiri聚落是個規模相當大的貧民區距離新德里約25分鐘的路程我在那裏遇到這些人他們帶我四處看看這些女孩真了不起我好像見證了社會改革正席捲著發展中國家這些女孩都還沒結婚再早個十年，她們早就嫁做人婦了現在她們都還單身想要繼續讀書，有一份工作扶養她們長大的母親都不識字，也不曾做過家庭作業現在有許多發展中國家，數以百萬千萬、甚至上億的父母有生以來第一次和自己的孩子一起做功課，一起準備考試他們重返校園讀書的原因不是因為他們念了這樣的學校這是一所私立學校是要付學費的，這所學校很好可以算是頂尖的學校在印度的海德拉巴找不到更好的了這些父母之所以繼續念書 是因為貧民區的入口處裝了台電腦是一位社會改革企業家所捐的他是蘇格塔‧米特拉他採取了顛覆傳統的作法告訴我們，孩子只要有適當條件加上電腦的輔助，就可以獨立學習那些女孩從沒用過Google也沒聽過維基百科想想看，他們生活將有的轉變就是因為那台電腦 所以各位看見我在這趟考察看到的東西再看看這一百多項個案研究不同社會企業家冋樣在惡劣環境中努力看看他們針對學習所開出的處方一點也不像傳統的學校那究竟看起來像什麼？人人奉教育為圭臬教育，再加上科技則是無窮希望的源頭你可以到這裡 這所學校距離聖保羅3個小時車程絕大部分孩子的父母是文盲許多孩子家裡連電都沒有但是他們完全習慣使用電腦、上網拍攝影片等等在這樣的地方不難發現貧民區裡教育工作的推動是透過吸引學生，不是逼迫他們我們的教育多半用逼迫的方式我的求學過程也是如此學校裡，許多東西排山倒海而來課本知識、大小考試體制問題、按表操課假如你想吸引Juanderson這樣的孩子這樣的孩子不論是購買槍枝、穿金戴銀騎重型機車、交女朋友都是透過毒品交易要吸引這樣的孩子來讀書制式的課程是行不通的無法吸引這樣的孩子要吸引他來所以教育要用「吸力」不是「推力」 所謂課程的概念在這樣的環境完全派不上用場教育的起點應該是讓孩子學習如何改變身處的生活環境那是什麼呢？學習動機是關鍵，這可以從兩方面來看一是要提供外在學習動機也就是受教育是有益的我們的教育體系之所以成功就是立基於「有益」這個觀念但這得等上好一段時間這對貧窮的人而言太久了等個十年再享受教育的好處實在太遙遠，尤其當你需要糊口或要照顧弟妹或幫家裡做生意，更顯得緩不濟急所以教育必須符合實際需求幫助人們解決謀生的問題另外，還要讓學習變得非常有趣 我常常遇到這類人這位是賽巴斯汀‧洛克，他很了不起他在貝洛奧里藏特也就是巴西第三大城研發了兩百多種遊戲用來任何你想得到的課程無論在學校或社區只要他工作的地方每天一開始，大家會圍成一個圈開始於提出一個問題想想看，教育以問題做起點而不是填鴨知識以遊戲做起點，而不是上課以一個前提做起點就是要先吸引孩子的注意力才有可能真正教導他們我們的教育體系剛好反向操作，運氣不錯的話還有體育、戲劇、音樂課可以上這裡則透過體育、戲劇、音樂來教學這種教學之所以吸引孩子學習是因為會有真正的舞蹈真正的馬戲團表演或舉個最好的例子委內瑞拉國立青少年管弦樂團這是音樂課的一部份所以，真實生動的課程能吸引孩子學習而不是等到要實作的時候孩子已經被迫學一堆東西卻還是一知半解 委內瑞拉國立青少年管弦樂團把小提琴當作學習的工具賽巴斯汀‧洛克把製作香皂當作學習的工具看到這些學習策略會發現他們運用人和地利之便發揮極大的創意同儕互相學習如果你想傳播學習的種子卻沒有老師教或老師不願意來，或請不起老師就算真的找到老師他們教的不是這些人要的該怎麼辦？那麼就自己找人教建立同儕之間的學習方式或是找準教師，或引進專業技能重點是要看當地的學習需求隨著人、地方或技術的不同加以調整 這是所巴士裡的學校位於一個建築工地這城叫作普那，是亞洲發展最快的城市普那有5000個建築工地有三萬名兒童生活在這些工地裡這只是一個例子想像一下，都市人口爆增是發展中國家都將面臨的問題到時不知道有多少孩子求學生涯會在建築工地裡度過這是一個計畫非常簡單把巴士融入學習他們並不把學習看成是學術分析的活動反而覺得學習很用能做出某些東西可以實際操作，或許還能以此謀生 我遇到了史蒂文這個人他曾在奈洛比流落街頭三年因為他的父母親皆死於愛滋病最後他終於重返校園不是因為想拿中學教育證書而是因為木工訓練課程這項動手實作的課程世界最熱門的學校頂尖的高科技學府也深信學習是有效益的活動在貧民區別無選擇上學必須帶來效益否則就沒有意義 後來他們發展出一種不同的模式也就是「中國餐館」模式去拓展規模我跟著他學習他是很優秀的人他可說是最了不起的社會企業家世上難以找到他這樣的人他叫作馬達夫‧查凡創立了布拉罕這個機構布拉罕創辦學齡前遊戲團體幫助2100萬個印度小孩這是世界最大的教育類非政府組織也可資助印度勞工的孩子上學馬達夫是真正的改革家其實，他曾當過工會組織籌辦人於是學到許多技能用來創立布拉罕 布拉罕發展到一個階段開始吸引麥肯錫慈善資金的挹注麥肯錫研究了馬達夫的營運模式後說「馬達夫，你知道要怎麼進行嗎？」「應該把你這一套變成麥當勞」「不管到什麼新的地方」「可以設立布拉罕分店」「到哪裡都一樣」「這樣不但可靠，又可以打響名號」「大家就會知道布拉罕」馬達夫這麼說「我們為什麼要學麥當勞？」「我們為什麼不能像中國餐館一樣？」 到處都有中國餐館卻沒有連鎖經營的中國餐館可是每個人都知道中國餐館的樣子知道裡面有什麼，雖然不盡相同顏色、名字也不一樣中國餐館實在很好認布拉罕以中國餐館模式運作同樣的準則，但環境和應用都不同不是麥當勞的模式麥當勞模式只是規模變大中國餐館模式則會流傳開來 大眾教育始於社會企業家的精神最早在19世紀就有了而我們現在再度急需這種精神傳到世界各地從以上種種，可以學到什麼？值得學習的地方可多了我們的教育制度正在分崩離析我們的教育無法觸及那些最需要受教育的人常常找到對象卻抓不到重點制式的改革愈來愈沒有章法我們對教育非常擔憂用個最簡單的方法來了解我們究竟需要什麼創新需要什麼特別的計劃 創新基本上有兩種一種是永續型創新維持現有的機構組織另一種是顛覆型創新打破舊有一切，創造不同的作法有所謂體制內的環境例如中小學、大學、醫院這些實行創新的地方也有體制外的環境，如社區家庭、社會網絡我們的努力多半聚焦在這裡維持體制內的創新不斷的修正俾斯麥主張的學校制度這制度從19世紀就已實行但我說過，問題在於發展中國家沒有老師來實施這個制度需要有數百萬的老師在中國、印度、奈及利亞及其他發展中國家，去滿足學生需求而就目前的制度來看光這樣做是無法解決教育不平等的問題對於巿中心的貧民區或舊時的工業區更是如此 所以我們還需要三種改革首先，我們需要教育再造放眼世界所看到的是愈來愈多學校進行教育再造學校本質還是學校，但是不太一樣這些擁有「願景」的學校分佈在美國和澳洲另外還些稱作 Kunscap Skolan的瑞典學校這14所學校中只有兩所是真正的「學校」其他則隱身於非學校的場地北昆士蘭有一所很棒的學校叫做Jaringan這類學校都有共同的特色通力合作，適性教學學習主軸涵蓋不同技術這裡的學習是由發問開始找出問題，提出計畫而不是從既定知識或課程開始我們需要更多這類的學校 然而教育的諸多問題並非只存在學校之中也和家庭及社區相關所以教育當然也需要更多來自體制外的協助需要外在資源去輔助學校教育義大利著名的瑞吉歐.艾蜜莉亞她提出「家庭學習制度」提供教育工作者支持與鼓勵最振奮人心的當屬「哈林兒童區」10年來由傑佛瑞‧堪拿大推動試圖結合學校教育家庭教育、社區計畫改革的對象除了學校教育還包括紐約哈林區約1萬個家庭的文化型態我們需要更多大刀闊斧的新思維當你走出這個演講廳走大約一小時的路或許就會發現那裡正需要這種不同凡響的創新 最後，創新需要改頭換面讓所謂的學習以不同於以往的方式進行很快，在2015年會有項了不起的成就世界會「學校化」每個15歲以下的孩子只要想上學到時一定有學校可念這實在很了不起但是教育工作不像汽車工業發展得如此迅速、有條不紊其實現今的學校體系是承襲19世紀俾斯麥所主張的普魯士教育模式英國改革派後來加以採納之後傳教士也在美國開始推行並凝聚成社會共識後來也在日本及南韓發展起來 學校教育源起於19世紀當然是很大的成就而且學校教育一直都會有所貢獻如技能、學習、閱讀等等但學校教育也容易扼殺想像力扼殺學習的慾望及自信把社會階級分化儘管也能將社會解放而發展中國家正因承襲了我們的學校制度現在得花上整個世紀進行改革所以我們才需要全新的思維因為現在唯有這樣的思維才是孩子學習真正所需 謝謝
