Talk	en	zh-tw
charlie_todd_the_shared_experience_of_absurdity	"I started Improv Everywhere about 10 years ago when I moved to New York City with an interest in acting and comedy. Because I was new to the city, I didn't have access to a stage, so I decided to create my own in public places. So the first project we're going to take a look at is the very first No Pants Subway Ride. Now, this took place in January of 2002. And this woman is the star of the video. She doesn't know she's being filmed. She's being filmed with a hidden camera. This is on the 6 train in New York City. And this is the first stop along the line. These are two Danish guys who come in and sit down next to the hidden camera. And that's me right there in a brown coat. It's about 30 degrees outside. I'm wearing a hat. I'm wearing a scarf. And the girl's going to notice me right here. (Laughter) And as you'll see now, I'm not wearing pants. (Laughter) At this point — at this point she's noticed me, but in New York there's weirdos on any given train car. One person's not that unusual. She goes back to reading her book, which is unfortunately titled ""Rape."" (Laughter) So she's noticed the unusual thing, but she's gone back to her normal life. Now, in the meantime, I have six friends who are waiting at the next six consecutive stops in their underwear as well. They're going to be entering this car one by one. We'll act as though we don't know each other. And we'll act as if it's just an unfortunate mistake we've made, forgetting our pants on this cold January day. (Laughter) (Laughter continues) So at this point, she decides to put the rape book away. (Laughter) And she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings. In the meantime, the two Danish guys to the left of the camera, they're cracking up. They think this is the funniest thing they've ever seen before. And watch her make eye contact with them right about now. (Laughter) And I love that moment in this video, because before it became a shared experience, it was something that was maybe a little bit scary, or something that was at least confusing to her. And then, once it became a shared experience, it was funny and something that she could laugh at. So the train is now pulling into the third stop along the 6 line. (Laughter) So the video won't show everything. This goes on for another four stops. A total of seven guys enter anonymously in their underwear. At the eighth stop, a girl came in with a giant duffel bag and announced she had pants for sale for a dollar — like you might sell batteries or candy on the train. We all very matter-of-factly bought a pair of pants, put them on and said, ""Thank you. That's exactly what I needed today,"" and then exited without revealing what had happened and went in all different directions. (Applause) Thank you. So that's a still from the video there. And I love that girl's reaction so much. And watching that videotape later that day inspired me to keep doing what I do. And really one of the points of Improv Everywhere is to cause a scene in a public place that is a positive experience for other people. It's a prank, but it's a prank that gives somebody a great story to tell. And her reaction inspired me to do a second annual No Pants Subway Ride. And we've continued to do it every year. This January, we did the 10th annual No Pants Subway Ride where a diverse group of 3,500 people rode the train in their underwear in New York — almost every single train line in the city. And also in 50 other cities around the world, people participated. (Laughter) As I started taking improv class at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater and meeting other creative people and other performers and comedians, I started amassing a mailing list of people who wanted to do these types of projects. So I could do more large-scale projects. Well, one day I was walking through Union Square, and I saw this building, which had just been built in 2005. There was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing. It was very peculiar, because it was dark out, but she was backlit with florescent lighting. She was very much onstage and I couldn't figure out why she was doing it. After about 15 seconds, her friend appeared — she had been hiding behind a display. They laughed, hugged each other and ran away. Maybe she had been dared to do this. So I got inspired by that. Looking at the entire facade — there were 70 total windows — and I knew what I had to do. (Laughter) So this project is called Look Up More. We had 70 actors dress in black. This was completely unauthorized. We didn't let the stores know we were coming. And I stood in the park giving signals. The first signal was for everybody to hold up these four-foot tall letters that spelled out ""Look Up More,"" the name of the project. The second signal was for everybody to do jumping jacks together. You'll see that start right here. (Laughter) And then we had dancing. We had everyone dance. And then we had dance solos where only one person would dance and everybody would point to them. (Laughter) So then I gave a new hand signal, which signaled the next soloist down below in Forever 21, and he danced. There were several other activities. We had people jumping up and down, people dropping to the ground. And I was standing just anonymously in a sweatshirt, putting my hand on and off of a trashcan to signal the advancement. And because it was in Union Square Park, right by a subway station, there were hundreds of people by the end who stopped and looked up and watched what we were doing. There's a better photo of it. So that particular event was inspired by a moment that I happened to stumble upon. The next project I want to show was given to me in an email from a stranger. A high school kid in Texas wrote me in 2006 and said, ""You should get as many people as possible to put on blue polo shirts and khaki pants and go into a Best Buy and stand around."" (Laughter) (Applause) So I wrote this high school kid back immediately and I said, ""Yes, you are correct. I think I'll try to do that this weekend. Thank you."" So here's the video. So again, this is 2005. This is the Best Buy in New York City. We had about 80 people show up to participate, entering one by one. There was an eight-year-old girl, a 10-year-old girl. There was also a 65-year-old man who participated. So a very diverse group of people. (Laughter) And I told people, ""Don't work. Don't actually do work. But also, don't shop. Just stand around and don't face products."" Now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt. Everybody else is one of our actors. (Laughter) The lower-level employees thought it was very funny. Several of them went to go get their camera from the break room and took photos with us. A lot of them made jokes about trying to get us to go to the back to get heavy television sets for customers. The managers and the security guards, on the other hand, did not find it particularly funny. You can see them in this footage. They're wearing either a yellow shirt or a black shirt. And we were there probably 10 minutes before the managers decided to dial 911. (Laughter) So they started running around telling everybody the cops were coming, ""Watch out, the cops are coming."" And you can see the cops in this footage right here. That's a cop wearing black right there, being filmed with a hidden camera. Ultimately, the police had to inform Best Buy management that it was not, in fact, illegal to wear a blue polo shirt and khaki pants. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) So we had been there for 20 minutes; we were happy to exit the store. One thing the managers were trying to do was to track down our cameras. And they caught a couple of my guys who had hidden cameras in duffel bags. But the one camera guy they never caught was the guy that went in just with a blank tape and went over to the Best Buy camera department and just put his tape in one of their cameras and pretended to shop. So I like that concept of using their own technology against them. (Laughter) I think our best projects are ones that are site-specific and happen at a particular place for a reason. And one morning, I was riding the subway. I had to make a transfer at the 53rd St. stop where there are these two giant escalators. And it's a very depressing place to be in the morning, it's very crowded. So I decided to try and stage something that could make it as happy as possible for one morning. So this was in the winter of 2009 — 8:30 in the morning. It's morning rush hour. It's very cold outside. People are coming in from Queens, transferring from the E train to the 6 train. And they're going up these giant escalators on their way to their jobs. [Rob wants] [to give you] (Laughter) [a high five!] (Laughter) [Get ready!] (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. So there's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better. He gave 2,000 high fives that day, and he washed his hands before and afterward and did not get sick. And that was done also without permission, although no one seemed to care. So I'd say over the years, one of the most common criticisms I see of Improv Everywhere left anonymously on YouTube comments is: ""These people have too much time on their hands."" And you know, not everybody's going to like everything you do, and I've certainly developed a thick skin thanks to Internet comments, but that one's always bothered me, because we don't have too much time on our hands. The participants in Improv Everywhere events have just as much leisure time as any other New Yorkers, they just occasionally choose to spend it in an unusual way. You know, every Saturday and Sunday, hundreds of thousands of people each fall gather in football stadiums to watch games. And I've never seen anybody comment, looking at a football game, ""All those people in the stands, they have too much time on their hands."" And of course they don't. It's a perfectly wonderful way to spent a weekend afternoon, watching a football game in a stadium. But I think it's also a perfectly valid way to spend an afternoon freezing in place with 200 people in the Grand Central terminal or dressing up like a ghostbuster and running through the New York Public Library. (Laughter) Or listening to the same MP3 as 3,000 other people and dancing silently in a park, or bursting into song in a grocery store as part of a spontaneous musical, or diving into the ocean in Coney Island wearing formal attire. (Laughter) You know, as kids, we're taught to play. And we're never given a reason why we should play. It's just acceptable that play is a good thing. And I think that's sort of the point of Improv Everywhere. It's that there is no point and that there doesn't have to be a point. We don't need a reason. As long as it's fun and it seems like it's going to be a funny idea and it seems like the people who witness it will also have a fun time, then that's enough for us. And I think, as adults, we need to learn that there's no right or wrong way to play. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我大約在10年前創立了“Improv Everywhere隨處即興”這個團體那時我剛搬到紐約，希望從事表演和喜劇方面的工作初來乍到的我，在紐約根本沒有表演的機會所以我決定在公共場所搭建自己的舞臺 我們將要看到的第一個企劃是首屆的“不穿長褲地鐵之旅”這是發生在2002年1月而這名女性正是影片的主角她並不知道她正在被拍攝中角落裡有個隱藏式攝影機正在拍她這是在紐約市地鐵的6號線上這是整條線的第一站兩位丹麥小夥子正好坐在隱藏的鏡頭旁邊那個戴棕色外套的就是我外面只有30華氏度（攝氏零下1度）我戴著帽子和圍巾那女孩很快就要注意到我了（笑聲）正如你們所見，我沒穿褲子（笑聲）這時候這時候她注意到我了但是紐約地鐵上到處都是奇怪的人一個像我這樣的也不是多稀奇所以她繼續回頭看她的書，不過很不巧的是她的書名叫“強姦”（笑聲）那麼，即使她注意到了這不尋常的景象但仍選擇了回歸到她正常的生活裡 與此同時，我還有六個沒穿褲子的朋友在接下來的六個站等著他們會一個一個地接連上車我們都裝作互相不認識對方的樣子好像這只不過是我們碰巧犯下很不幸的錯誤在這個寒冷的一月忘記穿我們的褲子了（笑聲）在這個時候她終於決定把她的“強姦”放到一邊（笑聲）她不能再對周圍發生的一切表現的毫不在意了 與此同時，鏡頭左邊的兩個丹麥小夥子已經笑得不行了他們覺得從沒見過這麼搞笑的事注意女孩和他們兩個的眼神交流（笑聲）我超喜歡這一幕因為在這成為共享的經驗之前我們的表現可能有點嚇人或是讓她感到困惑但是一旦這成為共享的經驗它就變得很有意思，女孩甚至因此笑出來 現在地鐵進入了6號線的第三站（笑聲）這段影片並不會把所有的內容都顯示出來同樣的事情在接下來的四站都發生了一共有七位不知名的、沒穿褲子的小夥子在第八站，上來一個拖著巨大行李袋的小姑娘兜售她一塊錢一條的褲子就如同平常會在列車上看到有人推銷電池或糖果一樣我們也就真的一人買了一條褲子穿上接著說：「謝謝，這褲子來得真及時」然後裝作什麽也沒發生一樣很自然地朝不同方向離開了車站 （掌聲） 謝謝 這也是剛才那個影片裡的一幕我太喜歡那姑娘的反應了那天之後我繼續看這一段我對我要做什麽有了靈感""Improv Everywhere""的目的之一就是在公共場合製造一些給人們帶來正面體驗的情境這其實是一個惡作劇，但是這惡作劇給了人們一個值得講述的好故事姑娘的反應激勵了我進而組織第二屆“年度不穿長褲的地鐵之旅“我們把這個一年一度的傳統保持下來這個一月份將是第十屆“年度不穿長褲的地鐵之旅“了這次我們有3500個不同背景的人參與只穿內褲的他們將會出現在紐約的幾乎每條地鐵線上另外，在世界上其他50個城市的地鐵裡也都有人參加 （笑聲） 當我開始在""正直公民旅劇院""講授即興表演課程的時候遇到了很多其他表演者、喜劇演員和有想像力的人我開始把有興趣做這種表演的人都加到一個郵件列表裡，這樣我就可以做一些大企劃了有一天我走過聯合廣場的時候看到這棟剛在2005年建好的樓有一個女孩在一扇窗戶裡跳舞這看起來非常奇怪因為外面當時很黑，燦爛的燈光從裡面把她照亮她看起來就像在舞臺上表演我想不出來她到底想做什麽15秒後，她的朋友出現了之前她一直藏在一個陳列品後面她們擁抱大笑，然後一起離開了看起來像是她們在玩真心話大冒險所以我從這個獲得了靈感我們來看看大樓的這一面，一共有70個窗戶我知道我該做啥了 （笑聲） 這個企劃叫做""多抬頭看一些""。70個演員全身穿黑色的衣服完全沒有人授權我們也沒有提前通知商場我站在下面向他們發信號第一個信號是讓他們一起舉起這些四英尺高的字母拼成這個企劃的名字：""多抬頭看一些""第二個信號是讓所有人一起""開合跳""（跳起來雙臂舉起，雙腿向外展開的一個動作）你們看到的是剛開始的時候（笑聲）接下來是跳舞，所有人一起跳然後是獨舞，一個人跳其他人都指著他（笑聲）然後我手上再發一個信號告訴""永遠21（Forever 21）""下面的那個獨舞者讓他開始跳還有一些其他的動作有人跳上跳下有人摔倒在地上我只是穿著運動衫的路人甲把手在垃圾桶拿上拿下來指揮表演的進程這是在一個地鐵站旁邊的聯合廣場公園所以最後有好幾百人停下腳步抬頭看看我們在做什麽這是一張更棒的照片 這一個特別的行動是我從感到困惑的一幕中獲得靈感的下一個我想給大家看的企劃是由一個陌生人發給我的電子郵件而來的德州的一位高中生在2006年寫信給我說：「你應該召集盡可能多的人，都穿上藍色短袖開領衫和卡其褲，到百思買（Best Buy）去閒逛。」（笑聲）（掌聲）於是我立刻回信給這位高中生我說：「你說得很對，我這週末就這麼做，謝謝。」這就是當天的影片 這是2005年（之前說是2006）在紐約市的百思買（Best Buy）我們一共80個人左右一個接一個地走進店裡其中有8歲的小女孩、10歲的小女孩還有一個65歲的老頭一起參加這個活動非常多樣化的一群人我告訴他們：「別幹活，別真的工作。但是呢，也別買東西。就在店裡轉轉，別面對著商品。」現在你可以看到的這些真的員工他們襯衫上有黃色標籤所有其他人都是我們這些演員（笑聲）基層的員工覺得這很好玩以至於有幾個還從休息室拿來他們的相機跟我們合影許多人開玩笑讓我們到後面去幫顧客搬很重的電視機可是經理和保安們就不覺得這有什麽好玩的了你們看到在這個片段裡他們穿著黃色或黑色的襯衫10分鐘之後經理就決定打911報警了 （笑聲） 然後他們開始在店裡四處亂竄告訴大家警察就要過來了，注意點，警察馬上就要過來了你們看到這個片段裡，警察真的過來了有個隱藏的鏡頭正在拍這些穿著黑色制服的警察最後，警察只好告訴經理在百思買（Best Buy）裡穿藍襯衫、卡其褲事實上，並不犯法 （笑聲） （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲） 我們在那兒待了20分鐘，然後高高興興地出去了期間經理一直想要追查到我們的攝影機他們搜到了好幾個人藏在袋子裡的攝影機但是有一個他們永遠也查不到因為有個小夥子只帶了一個空白的帶子然後徑直走到店裡的攝影機部門把帶子放進其中一台店裡的攝影機裡然後假裝在買東西我很喜歡這個""以其人之道還治其人之身""的概念 （笑聲） 我想我們那些最好的企劃都需要一些特定的地點在一些特別的場所發生，並有著明確的原因有天早晨，我搭乘地鐵時要在53街站那兒轉車那兒有兩個巨大的電扶梯早晨的時候那裡很擠，讓人很沮喪所以我決定在試試舉辦一場演出使那早晨盡可能讓人開心一點所以就有了這個：2009年冬天早上8:30上班的高峰期外面非常寒冷從皇后區過來的人們要在這兒從E線轉到6號線他們乘坐這些巨大的電扶梯準備去工作 （笑聲） （笑聲） （掌聲） （謝謝）這裡是張更清楚點的照片那天他擊了2000次掌（high five）在這前後他都去洗了手之後也沒有生病這個活動也沒有得到相關部門的批准雖然似乎沒人在意 這麼多年來YouTube上的匿名評論裡對Improv Everywhere最多的批評就是：「這些人太閒了。」你知道，並不是每個人都會喜歡你做的每件事感謝這些網民的評論，我的臉皮越來越厚了但是這個評價一直讓我很不舒服因為我們恰恰缺的就是時間Improv Everywhere這些活動的參與者們並不比其他普通的紐約客來的閒他們只是偶爾用不尋常的方式打發這些時間 你們知道，每年秋天成百上千的人們在週六週日聚在體育場看橄欖球我也從沒見到有人看著橄欖球賽評論說：「這些看球的人都是太閒了。」當然他們並不是這樣到體育場看橄欖球是個非常好的度過週末下午的方式但是我也認為下面這些都是度過週末下午的好方式：在中央車站與200個其他人一起靜止不動或者打扮成“捉鬼特工隊”（魔鬼剋星）跑過紐約公共圖書館（笑聲）或是與其他3000人聽同一首MP3在公園裡一起悄無聲息地跳舞或是在雜貨店放聲唱歌創作即興音樂劇或是穿上正式服裝跳進康尼島（Coney Island）的海裡 你看，我們還是孩子時，別人教我們玩從來也沒人告訴我們玩需要什麽理由大家都認為玩是一件很好的事我想這正是Improv Everywhere的動機就是沒有目的，也不需要什麽目的我們不需要原因只要有趣看起來像個好玩的主意而且在現場目擊的人們也會覺得這很有意思那對我們來說就夠了我也認為，作為成年人，我們要學習認識在玩這件事上，並沒有什麼對或錯的方式 非常感謝 （掌聲）"
