Talk	en	zh-tw
charles_limb_your_brain_on_improv	"So I am a surgeon who studies creativity, and I have never had a patient tell me, ""I really want you to be creative during surgery,"" and so I guess there's a little bit of irony to it. I will say though that, after having done surgery a lot, it's similar to playing a musical instrument. And for me, this deep and enduring fascination with sound is what led me to both be a surgeon and to study the science of sound, particularly music. I'm going to talk over the next few minutes about my career in terms of how I'm able to study music and try to grapple with all these questions of how the brain is able to be creative. I've done most of this work at Johns Hopkins University, and at the National Institute of Health where I was previously. I'll go over some science experiments and cover three musical experiments. I will start off by playing a video for you. This video is of Keith Jarrett, who's a well-known jazz improviser and probably the most well-known, iconic example of someone who takes improvisation to a higher level. And he'll improvise entire concerts off the top of his head, and he'll never play it exactly the same way again, so as a form of intense creativity, I think this is a great example. And so why don't we go and click the video. (Music) (Music ends) It's really a remarkable thing that happens there. I've always as a listener, as a fan, I listen to that, and I'm astounded. I think — how can this possibly be? How can the brain generate that much information, that much music, spontaneously? And so I set out with this concept, scientifically, that artistic creativity, it's magical, but it's not magic, meaning that it's a product of the brain. There's not too many brain-dead people creating art. With this notion that artistic creativity is in fact a neurologic product, I took this thesis that we could study it just like we study any other complex neurologic process, and there are subquestions that I put there. Is it possible to study creativity scientifically? And I think that's a good question. And I'll tell you that most scientific studies of music, they're very dense, and when you go through them, it's very hard to recognize the music in it. In fact, they seem to be unmusical entirely and to miss the point of the music. This brings the second question: Why should scientists study creativity? Maybe we're not the right people to do it. (Laughter) Well it may be, but I will say that, from a scientific perspective, we talked a lot about innovation today, the science of innovation, how much we understand about how the brain is able to innovate is in its infancy, and truly, we know very little about how we are able to be creative. I think that we're going to see, over the next 10, 20, 30 years, a real science of creativity that's burgeoning and is going to flourish, Because we now have new methods that can enable us to take this process like complex jazz improvisation, and study it rigorously. So it gets down to the brain. All of us have this remarkable brain, which is poorly understood, to say the least. I think that neuroscientists have more questions than answers, and I'm not going to give you answers today, just ask a lot of questions. And that's what I do in my lab. I ask questions about what is the brain doing to enable us to do this. This is the main method that I use. This is functional MRI. If you've been in an MRI scanner, it's very much the same, but this one is outfitted in a special way to not just take pictures of your brain, but to also take pictures of active areas of the brain. The way that's done is by the following: There's something called BOLD imaging, which is Blood Oxygen Level Dependent imaging. When you're in an fMRI scanner, you're in a big magnet that's aligning your molecules in certain areas. When an area of the brain is active, meaning a neural area is active, it gets blood flow shunted to that area. That blood flow causes an increase in local blood to that area with a deoxyhemoglobin change in concentration. Deoxyhemoglobin can be detected by MRI, whereas oxyhemoglobin can't. So through this method of inference — and we're measuring blood flow, not neural activity — we say that an area of the brain that's getting more blood was active during a particular task, and that's the crux of how fMRI works. And it's been used since the '90s to study really complex processes. I'm going to review a study that I did, which was jazz in an fMRI scanner. It was done with a colleague, Alan Braun, at the NIH. This is a short video of how we did this project. (Video) Charles Limb: This is a plastic MIDI piano keyboard that we use for the jazz experiments. And it's a 35-key keyboard designed to fit both inside the scanner, be magnetically safe, have minimal interference that would contribute to any artifact, and have this cushion so that it can rest on the players' legs while they're lying down in the scanner, playing on their back. It works like this — this doesn't actually produce any sound. It sends out what's called a MIDI signal — or a Musical Instrument Digital Interface — through these wires into the box and then the computer, which then trigger high-quality piano samples like this. (Music) (Music) (Music ends) OK, so it works. And so through this piano keyboard, we have the means to take a musical process and study it. So what do you do now that you have this cool piano keyboard? You can't just say, ""It's great we have a keyboard."" We have to come up with a scientific experiment. The experiment really rests on the following: What happens in the brain during something that's memorized and over-learned, and what happens in the brain during something that is spontaneously generated, or improvised, in a way that's matched motorically and in terms of lower-level sensory motor features? I have here what we call the paradigms. There's a scale paradigm, which is playing a scale up and down, memorized, then there's improvising on a scale, quarter notes, metronome, right hand — scientifically very safe, but musically really boring. Then there's the bottom one, which is called the jazz paradigm. So we brought professional jazz players to the NIH, and we had them memorize this piece of music on the lower-left, which is what you heard me playing — and we had them improvise to the same chord changes. And if you can hit that lower-right sound icon, that's an example of what was recorded in the scanner. (Music) (Music ends) In the end, it's not the most natural environment, but they're able to play real music. And I've listened to that solo 200 times, and I still like it. And the musicians were comfortable in the end. We first measured the number of notes. Were they playing more notes when they were improvising? That was not what was going on. And then we looked at the brain activity. I will try to condense this for you. These are contrast maps that are showing subtractions between what changes when you're improvising vs. when you're doing something memorized. In red is an area that's active in the prefrontal cortex, the frontal lobe of the brain, and in blue is this area that was deactivated. So we had this focal area called the medial prefrontal cortex that went way up in activity. We had this broad patch of area called the lateral prefrontal cortex that went way down in activity, I'll summarize that for you. These are multifunctional areas of the brain, these are not the jazz areas of the brain. They do a whole host of things that have to do with self-reflection, introspection, working memory etc. Really, consciousness is seated in the frontal lobe. But we have this combination of an area that's thought to be involved in self-monitoring, turning off, and this area that's thought to be autobiographical, or self-expressive, turning on. We think, at least in this preliminary — it's one study; it's probably wrong, but it's one study — (Laughter) we think that at least a reasonable hypothesis is that, to be creative, you should have this weird dissociation in your frontal lobe. One area turns on, and a big area shuts off, so that you're not inhibited, you're willing to make mistakes, so that you're not constantly shutting down all of these new generative impulses. Now a lot of people know that music is not always a solo activity — sometimes it's done communicatively. The next question was: What happens when musicians are trading back and forth, something called ""trading fours,"" which is something they do normally in a jazz experiment. So this is a 12-bar blues, and I've broken it down into four-bar groups, so you would know how you would trade. We brought a musician into the scanner, same way, had them memorize this melody then had another musician out in the control room trading back and forth interactively. So this is a musician, Mike Pope, one of the world's best bassists and a fantastic piano player. (Music) He's now playing the piece that we just saw a little better than I wrote it. (Video) CL: Mike, come on in. Mike Pope: May the force be with you. Nurse: Nothing in your pockets, Mike? MP: No. Nothing's in my pockets. CL: You have to have the right attitude to agree to do it. (Laughter) It's kind of fun, actually. (Music) Now we're playing back and forth. He's in there. You can see his legs up there. (Music) And then I'm in the control room here, playing back and forth. (Music) (Music ends) (Video) Mike Pope: This is a pretty good representation of what it's like. And it's good that it's not too quick. The fact that we do it over and over again lets you acclimate to your surroundings. So the hardest thing for me was the kinesthetic thing, looking at my hands through two mirrors, laying on my back, and not able to move at all except for my hand. That was challenging. But again — there were moments, for sure — (Laughter) there were moments of real, honest-to-God musical interplay, for sure. CL: At this point, I'll take a few moments. So what you're seeing here — and I'm doing a cardinal sin in science, which is to show you preliminary data. This is one subject's data. This is, in fact, Mike Pope's data. So what am I showing you here? When he was trading fours with me, improvising vs. memorized, his language areas lit up, his Broca's area, in the inferior frontal gyrus on the left. He had it also homologous on the right. This is an area thought to be involved in expressive communication. This whole notion that music is a language — maybe there's a neurologic basis to it after all, and we can see it when two musicians are having a musical conversation. So we've done this on eight subjects now, and we're getting all the data together, hopefully we'll have something to say about it meaningfully. Now when I think about improvisation and the language, what's next? Rap, of course, rap — freestyle. I've always been fascinated by freestyle. And let's play this video. (Video) Mos Def: Brown skin I be, standing five-ten I be Rockin' it when I be, in your vicinity Whole-style synergy, recognize symmetry Go and try to injure me, broke 'em down chemically Ain't the number 10 MC, talk about how been I be Styled it like Kennedy, late like a 10 to three When I say when I be, girls say bend that key cut CL: So there's a lot of analogy between what takes place in freestyle rap and jazz. There are a lot of correlates between the two forms of music, I think, in different time periods, in lot of ways, rap serves the same social function that jazz used to serve. So how do you study rap scientifically? And my colleagues think I'm crazy, but I think it's very viable. This is what you do: You have a freestyle artist come and memorize a rap that you write for them, that they've never heard before, and then you have them freestyle. So I told my lab members that I would rap for TED, and they said, ""No, you won't."" And then I thought — (Laughter) (Applause) But here's the thing. With this big screen, you can all rap with me. OK? So what we had them do was memorize this lower-left sound icon, please. This is the control condition. This is what they memorized. Computer: Memory, thump. CL: Thump of the beat in a known repeat Rhythm and rhyme, they make me complete The climb is sublime when I'm on the mic Spittin' rhymes that hit you like a lightning strike Computer: Search. CL: I search for the truth in this eternal quest My passion's not fashion, you can see how I'm dressed Psychopathic words in my head appear Whisper these lyrics only I can hear Computer: Art. CL: The art of discovering and that which is hovering Inside the mind of those unconfined All of these words keep pouring out like rain I need a mad scientist to check my brain Computer: Stop. (Applause) I guarantee you that will never happen again. (Laughter) So now, what's great about these free-stylers, they will get cued different words. They don't know what's coming, but they'll hear something off the cuff. Go hit that right sound icon, there will be cued three square words: like, not and head. He doesn't know what's coming. Computer: Like. Freestyler: I'm like some kind of extraterrestrial, celestial scene Back in the days, I used to sit in pyramids and meditate With two microphones — Computer: Head hovering over my head See if I could still listen, spittin' off the sound See what you grinning I teach the children in the back of the classroom About the message of apocalyptical Computer: Not. Not really though, 'cause I've got to keep it simple instrumental Detrimental playing Super Mario boxes [unclear] hip hop Computer: Stop. CL: It's an incredible thing that's taking place. It's doing something neurologically remarkable. Whether or not you like the music is irrelevant. Creatively speaking, it's just a phenomenal thing. This is a short video of how we do this in a scanner. [fMRI of Hip-Hop Rap] (Laughter) (Video) CL: We're here with Emmanuel. CL: That was recorded in the scanner, by the way. (Video) CL: That's Emmanuel in the scanner. He's just memorized a rhyme for us. [Control Condition Memorized Verses] Emmanuel: Top of the beat with no repeat Rhythm and rhyme make me complete Climb is sublime when I'm on the mic Spittin' rhymes that'll hit you like a lightning strike Computer: Search. I search for the truth in this eternal quest I'm passing on fashion; you can see how I'm dressed CL: I'm going to stop that there; so what do we see in his brain? This is four rappers' brains. And we do see language areas lighting up, but then, eyes closed — when you are freestyling vs. memorizing, you've got major visual areas lighting up. You've got major cerebellar activity, which is involved in motor coordination. You have heightened brain activity when you're doing a comparable task, when that one task is creative and the other task is memorized. It's very preliminary, but I think it's kind of cool. To conclude, we've got a lot of questions to ask, and like I said, we'll ask questions here, not answer them. But we want to get at the root of what is creative genius neurologically, and I think, with these methods, we're getting close. And I think, hopefully in the next 10, 20 years, you'll see real, meaningful studies that say science has to catch up to art, and maybe we're starting now to get there. Thank you for your time, I appreciate it. (Applause)"	我是一個研究創造力的外科醫師,從來沒有一個病人對我說我希望您能在手術時來點創意。我想這有點諷刺意味。但是我要說，在實施過無數次的外科手術之後，我覺得手術在一定程度上跟彈奏一種樂器很相似。而對於我來說，正是這種深刻而持久的聲音魅力，吸引著我在做一個手術醫師的同時，學習研究聲音的科學，特別是音樂。那麼，在下面的幾分鐘裡，我將試著跟你們談論關於我的職業特別在於我究竟是如何研究音樂以及努力設法解決這些關於大腦如何產生創意的疑問。這些工作大部分是我在約翰·霍普金斯大學時候完成的，也有一些是我之前在美國國家健康研究中心做的。我會先回顧一下一些科學實驗並且會涉及三個音樂實驗。 我想從給你們展示一段影片開始。這是基斯·哈雷特的一段影片， 他是一位著名的爵士即興音樂創作人，並且可能是最著名的，能將即興創作提升到一個相當高水平且最具代表性的人物。並且，他將用他的大腦創作出整場音樂會，並且他將永遠不會再用一模一樣的方式表演。因此， 以一種極高度的創作形式來說，我想這是一個非常好的例子。所以現在讓我們來看看這段影片吧。 （音樂） 剛剛發生的一切真是非凡而美妙。一直以來 — 我只是一個聆聽者，一個樂迷 —我聽著，然後我被震懾住了。我想：這怎麼可能發生？大腦怎麼能自行產生那麼多的信息，那麼多的音樂?所以，我合乎科學地展開這個概念，具有藝術性的創作，它是神奇的，但它不是魔術。意思是說，它是大腦的產物。沒有很多的腦死亡者在創作藝術。所以基與這種理念，那藝術性的創作實際上是一種神經產物，我帶來了這個議題，我們可以來研究一下，就像我們可以研究別的複雜的神經過程一樣。並且， 我覺得還有一些我放在那裡的小問題。真的有可能用科學的方法研究創造力嗎？我認為這是個很好的問題。我要告訴你們，大部分針對音樂所做的科學研究，它們非常難以理解。當你閱讀它們時，很難從中辦識音樂。實際上，它們整個看上去非常的不具音樂性。而且完全失去了音樂的特性。 因此，這就帶來了第二個問題：為什麼科學家們要研究創造力呢？也許我們並不是研究音樂的正確人選。但也有可能我們是。但是，我將要說，從一個科學的角度 ——當今我們談論很多關於創新的事情。科學創新。我們對大腦如何可以創新的認知還只是初級。是的，我們對我們如何可以創新知之甚少。所以，我想，我們將看到再過10年，20年，30年一種關於創造力的真實科學將會迅速發展，並且繁榮興旺。因為現在有新的方法使得我們可以運用這些類似的過程，像複雜的爵士即興表演，嚴僅地研究它讓它一直深入到大腦。這樣以後我們都可以擁有這個非凡的大腦，而現在我們對大腦只有差強人意的認識。我想，神經學家們的問題可能比答案還多。而我自己，我今天將不會給你們很多的解答。我只問大量的問題。 基本上，這正是我每天在實驗室作的事情。我會問很多問題，關於我們的大腦做了什麼才使得我們可以做這做那。這就是我用的主要方法。 這種方法叫功能磁共振影像。如果你有在磁共振影像掃描儀中待過，基本上是相同的東西，但這一個被裝備成一種特別的方式它不僅能為你的腦部拍照，還為腦部的活動區域拍照。下面就是這個方法的實現：這是一種叫血氧影像的東西，是血和氧氣水平的影像。當你處在一個功能磁共振影像掃描儀中時，你是在一個巨大的磁場中將你局部區域的分子排列起來。當大腦的某塊區域在活動，也就是說一塊神經區域在活動的時候，它使血流轉到那塊區域。血流造成那塊區域的血量增加它改變脫氧血紅蛋白的濃度。去氧合血紅蛋白可以被磁共振成像探測到，而氧基红血球素不能被探測到。所以通過這種推斷 ——並且我們在測量血流，而不是神經活動——我們稱之為大腦某個血量正在增加的區域在某特別的任務中是活動的。那就是功能磁共振成像的工作原理的關鍵之處。而它從90年代以來就被用來研究相當複雜的過程。 現在我將來回顧一下我自己做的一個研究，這個研究是關於功能磁共振掃描儀中的爵士樂。這是我和我的一個同事，亞倫·布勞恩，在美國國家健康研究中心時做的。這是一個我們如何進行這個項目的短片。 （視頻）查爾斯·理姆：這是一個塑料的MIDI （音樂設備數字接口）鋼琴鍵盤我們用這個鍵盤來進行爵士樂實驗。它是一塊35鍵的鍵盤這樣設計是爲了同時適合掃描儀內部，同時安全地帶著磁性，將人為造成的干擾物質減低到最少量並且有這個墊子，這樣演奏者可以將它放在腿上當他們躺在掃描儀里，用他們的背後表演時。它是這樣工作的 ——它並不真正產生任何聲音。它會輸出一個 MIDI 的信號—或者叫音樂設備數字接口—信號通過這些電線中進入這個盒子然後進入電腦，然後發出一個高品質的鋼琴聲。 （音樂） （音樂） 查爾斯·理姆：好，所以它是可用的。所以通過這個鋼琴鍵盤，我們現在有辦法獲取一段音樂的過程並來研究它。那現在你有了這個很酷的鋼琴鍵盤了，你要做點什麼呢？你不能光說——“我們弄到這麼各好鍵盤真是太棒了。”實際上，我們必須想出一個科學實驗。這個實驗依靠以下這些。當我們依循記憶運用一些熟悉的事物時，大腦會如何活動？當自發的產生或即興創作出一些東西，我們的大腦又發生了什麼在某種程度上那是運動神經和低階感官運動特徵符合的情形？ 所以，我這裡提供一個範例。有一個音階範例，就是彈奏上下的音調，並記起來。然後是這段音階的即興演奏—4分音符，節拍器，右手—從科學觀點是很安全的，但是從音樂角度來說確非常無聊。最後還有一個，稱為爵士樂的範例。然後我們將專業的爵士樂手帶到美國國家健康研究中心，接著讓他們記住像左下方的音樂，就是你們剛剛聽我彈的這段，然後我們讓他們即興創作同一段相同的和弦。如果你點擊右下方的聲音圖標，這裡有一個掃描儀記錄的例子。 （音樂） 總而言之，這並不是最自然的環境，但是他們能夠演奏真實的音樂。雖然我已經把那段獨奏聽過200次了，我仍然喜歡它。而音樂家們，他們最後也感覺很好。我們先測量這些音符的數量。他們在即興表演時真的彈奏了更多的音符嗎？並不是這樣的。然後我們看了腦部的活動。我試著把這部分壓縮，來告訴你們。這是對比圖，它顯示出當你在即興創作和你正在做記憶中的事情時的差值。紅色部分是前額葉皮質活動的區域，是大腦的前額葉。而藍色，是不活動的區域。我們管這個重點區域叫做內側前額葉皮質活動很頻繁。這塊寬的區域稱為外側前額葉皮層活動較遲緩， 我們來做個總結。 這些是腦部的多功能區域。就像我說的，這不是大腦裡爵士樂的區域。他們負責主要的事情這些事情跟自我反省，內省及工作記憶相關。真實的意識存在前額葉.但是我們認為有一個相關的區域自我控制的部分是關閉的，而這塊區域被認為是自動傳遞(導)的，或者是自我表現的區域開啟了。我們認為，至少初步認為這是一項研究，它可能是錯誤的。但它仍然是一項研究。我們認為，至少一個合理的假說是，要有創造性，你的前額葉不得不有這樣的分離。一塊區域工作，而一大塊區域關閉，從而使你不被約束，願意去犯錯誤，因此你不是一直處於關閉所有這些新的能夠製造東西的衝動狀態。現在，很多人知道音樂並不總是一個獨立的活動——有時它是一個溝通性的活動。 所以下一個問題是：當音樂家們前後替換時，被稱為4小節交換，也就是他們通常在爵士樂實驗中做的？這是一段12小節的布魯斯音樂。我將它按四小節分組，所以你知道你是怎樣交換的。現在，我們將一位音樂家置入掃描儀—用同樣的方式—讓他們記憶這段旋律然後讓另外一名音樂家在外面的控制室前後互動相互彈奏。 這是一位音樂家，麥克·波普，世界上最好的貝司手之一，也是一個了不起的鋼琴家。他現在正在彈這段我們剛剛看到的只是他彈的比我寫得好一點。 （視頻）查爾斯·理姆：護士：你口袋里沒東西了，對吧 麥克？麥克·波普：是的，我口袋裡什麼也沒有了。 （護士： 好。） 查爾斯·理姆：你必須用正確的態度接受它。（笑聲）它其實挺有趣的。現在我們開始交互彈奏。他在裏面了。你可以看到他的腿在那裡。而我在控制室裡，交互彈奏。 （音樂） （視頻）麥克·波普： 這剛好可以好好的表現它的形式。而且它很好因為它不是很快。事實上，我們一遍一遍地重複它，讓你習慣你周圍的環境。所以對我來說最難的是運動知覺的部份，藉由兩面鏡子看我的雙手，躺著除了手，別的都不能動。這很有挑戰性。但是再一次，有一瞬間，非常確定的，有一瞬間，真的，真誠的音樂相互作用，是肯定的。 查爾斯·理姆：在這一點上，我要耽誤一點時間。你們現在能看到什麽—而我現在要犯一種科學的禁忌，就是向你們展示一些初步的數據。這是一個主體的數據。這是，實際上，麥克波普的數據。所以我要讓你們看什麽呢？當他在和我配合4小節的彈奏時，是靠即興而非記憶他的語言區域亮了起來，也就是他的布洛卡區，也就是左邊的額下回。他實際上在右邊也有一塊相應的區域。這是一塊被認為是參與表達溝通的區域。這所有的關於音樂是一種語言的觀念，嗯，事實上也許歸根結底是有神經學基礎的，而當兩個音樂家在進行音樂對話的時候，我們可以看到它。而現在我們已經在八個主體上做了這個實驗，然後我們把所有數據匯聚在一起，但願我們將會得到一些有意義的結果。 現在當我想到即興和語言，那接下來是什麽呢？說唱，肯定的，說唱 —自由形式。我一直都對自由式說唱很著迷。讓我們繼續，播放這段視頻。 （視頻）莫斯 戴夫：我是棕色皮膚，我站了五十年數♫當我在你左右，我搖滾♫♫各種形勢的協同，相對辨認♫♫來試著傷害我，化學分解它們♫♫不是數字十，說說我該怎麼樣♫♫像肯尼迪一樣的風格，像3點差十分一樣晚♫♫當我說當我做，女孩們隨聲調整♫ 查爾斯·理姆：有大量的比擬在自由式說唱和爵士樂之間。實際上，這兩種音樂形式之間有很多在不同的時期。在很多方面，說唱被用作一種社交功能這種功能用爵士來實現的。所以該如何科學地學習說唱呢？而我的同事們都或多或少覺得我瘋了，但我覺得這很切實可行。所以這就是你要做的：你讓一個自由式說唱的藝術家進來，並記住一段你為他們寫的說唱，這段說唱他們從來沒有聽過，然後你讓他們將它自由化。所以我告訴我實驗室的同事們，我將為TED 說唱，而他們說：“不，你不會的。”然後我想— （鼓掌） 但是有件事情。用這個大屏幕，你們都可以和我說唱。對麼？所以我們讓他們來做是記憶。請按這裡左下角的音樂圖標。這是控制條件。這是他們要記憶的。 電腦：記憶，撞擊。查爾斯·理姆：撞擊的鼓聲是已知且重複的節奏和韻律，他們讓我完整。當我在麥克風前，爬升是一種崇高分裂那些撞你如醍醐灌頂的韻律我在永恆的追求中尋找真理我的激情不是時尚，你看我穿成這樣就可以知曉我的腦中出現了，精神病的字眼，小聲地說這些只有我能聽到的歌詞發現的藝術和徘徊在腦中的的自由的東西所有這些詞語一直像傾盆大雨我需要一個瘋掉的科學家檢查我的大腦 （鼓掌） 我向你們保證，那將再也不會發生了。 （笑聲） 現在，關於這些自由式者，什麼是最偉大的，他們將從不同的詞組中得到線索。他們不知道接下來是什麼，但是他們將聽到一些未經思考的東西。繼續，點擊那個右邊的聲音圖標。他們將被提示三個詞：“喜歡”，“不”， 和“頭”。他不知道接下來是什麼。 自由式者：我就像一些【不清晰】【不清晰】外星的，天體的景觀回到那些過去的日子，我以前曾坐在金字塔裡冥思有兩個麥克風懸在我的頭上來看我是否還能聽，分離那聲音看你正裂着嘴笑我在教室的後面教那些孩子關於天啟的消息但是不是真的，因為我必須保持難度簡單【不清楚】用樂器演奏玩超級馬里奧是有害的【不清楚】盒子【不清楚】hip hop 查爾斯理姆：再次的，這是發生的一件非常不可思議的事情。這是在做一件從神經學上看非同尋常的事情。你是否喜歡這音樂是不相干的。從創意的角度來說，這是一件了不起的事。這是一段簡短的視頻，關於我們實際上怎麼在掃描儀中做這個實驗。（笑聲） （視頻）查爾斯理姆：我們和伊曼紐爾在這裡。 查爾斯理姆：那是在掃描儀中錄的，順便說一句。 (視頻）查爾斯理姆：那是伊曼紐爾在掃描儀裡。他剛剛為我們記憶了一段旋律。 伊曼紐爾：鼓點之巔，從不寵辱♫節奏和旋律讓我完整當我在麥克風前，爬升是一種絕妙的感覺分裂那些如閃電一樣撞擊你的旋律我在永恆的追求中尋找整理我不為時尚而激情，你看我穿啥樣就可以知道 查爾斯理姆：好。我將停在這裡。所以我們在他的腦子裡看到了什麼？這實際上是四個說唱者的腦部圖。我們看到什麼，我們看到語言區域是亮起來的，但是然後—眼睛閉上—當你是自由式對比記憶，你的主要視覺區域亮着。你將用到主要的小腦活動，它參與運動協調。你的腦部活動增加，你的相對任務是，當人物是創造性的，而別的任務是記憶的。這非常基礎，但我覺得多少有點酷。 所以，總結一下，我們已經有很多問題要問。就像我說的，我們將問問題，而不是回答它們。但是我們想達到神經學上，創作天才的根本。而且我想，通過這些方法，我們離那裡越來越近。而且我想，希望在未來的10，20年你將看到真正的，有意義的研究這些研究能表明科學在跟上藝術的腳步，而也許我們現在正在開始走向那裡。 感謝你們的時間。 我很感激。 （鼓掌）
