Talk	en	zh-tw
charles_fleischer_insists_all_things_are_moleeds	"I am going to be talking about secrets. Obviously the best way to divulge a secret is to tell someone to not say anything about it. (Laughter) Secrets. I'm using PowerPoint this year just because, you know, I'm into the TED thing. (Laughter) And when you use these things you don't have to go like that. You just press it. (Laughter) Oh, man. Um, yes. (Laughter) Yes. I'm sure! Just change it! (Laughter) Is Bill Gates here? Change it! Come on! What? (Laughter) Ah! Okay. That's not my slides, but it's okay. (Laughter) As you can see, these are all maps. And maps are important devices for transferring information, especially if you have human cognitive ability. We can see that all formulas are really maps. Now, as humans, we make maps of places that we seldom even go, which seems a little wasteful of time. This, of course, is a map of the moon. There're some very delightful names. Tranquilacalitis, [unclear]. My favorite is Frigoris. What are these people thinking? Frigoris? What the Frigoris you doing? Names are important. Frigoris? This is the Moon. People could live there one day. I'll meet you at Frigoris. No. I don't think so. (Laughter) There we see Mars, again with various names. And this is all done, by the way, by the International Astronomical Union. This is an actual group of people that sit around naming planetary objects. This is from their actual book. These are some of the names that they have chosen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll go through a little of them. Bolotnitsa. That, of course, is the Slavic swamp mermaid. (Laughter) Now I think the whole concept of a mermaid doesn't really blend into the swamp feel. (Laughter) ""Oh look! Mermaid come out of swamp. Oh boy! It's time for Bolotnitsa!"" (Laughter) Djabran Fluctus. If that don't flow off the tongue, what does? (Laughter) I mean kids are studying this stuff and they've got the word ""fluctus"" up there. That's wrong. (Laughter) One dyslexic kid and he could be ruining his life. (Laughter) ""It fluctus up, Mama."" Hikuleo Fluctus. That's a little more flowing. Hikuleo sounds like a kind of a Leonardo DiCaprio 17 syllable thing. And that's the Tonga underworld. And one of my favorites is the Itoki Fluctus, who is the Nicaraguan goddess of insects, stars, and planets. Now, if you're a goddess of stars and planets wouldn't you relegate insects to somebody else? (Laughter) ""No, no, really, I'm so busy with the stars. Would you mind taking the insects? Thank you darling. Oh take the spiders too. I know they're not insects, but I don't care. Monkeys, chimps, just get rid of the hairy creatures."" (Laughter) Now, we're going to be going to Mars one day. And when we do, it's going to be unfair for the people that are living there to have to live with these ridiculous names. So, you'll be on Mars, and you're at Hellespointica Depressio which has got to be a really ""up"" place. (Laughter) Yeah, I'm at the Depressio, and I want to get over to Amazonis so I plug it into the Mars map, and click the button and there's my directions. I go to Chrysokeras. (Laughter) Left to the Thymiamata. Then to Niliacus Lacus, which is not a bad name. Niliacus Lacus, try to get the practice, slick-a-tick-a-bacus. That's a cool name. I will say that. So, I hold back a little of my venom for these astronomical misnomers. And then of course Arnon to Thoth. And of course there will be advertisements. This is from their rule book, the International Astronomical Union. And you know they're international because they put it ""en Francais"" as well. L'Union Astronomique Internationale, for those of you who don't speak French. I thought I'd translate for you. From the rulebook: Nomenclature is a tool. The first consideration, make it clear, simple and unambiguous. And I think that Djabran Fluctus, that fits that mode. (Laughter) That's simple, the goddess of goats, very simple. Djabran Fluctus. ""Now, Frank is this clear to you, Djabran Fluctus?"" ""Yeah, that's the goat goddess right? The Abacazanian? (Laughter) It's clear to me."" ""Listen, I'm going back to the swamp mermaid. Can you call me in a little while?"" (Laughter) Also, from the actual document I highlighted a part I thought may be of interest. Anyone can suggest changing a name. So, I look to you, fellow member of the Earth community. We've got to change this stuff up fast. So, these are actual names of people that work there. I did some more investigation. These are more people working for this group. And, as you can see, they don't use their first names. (Laughter) These are people naming planets, and they won't use their first names. Something is askew here. (Laughter) Is it because his name is really Jupiter Blunck? (Laughter) Is that Ganymede Andromeda Burba? (Laughter) Is that Mars Ya Marov? I don't know. But it's investigative material, no doubt. There are some mapping people who do use their names. Witness please, Eugene Shoemaker, who, diligently, from a young boy decided he wanted to make maps of celestial bodies. Must have been a very interesting day in the Shoemaker house. ""Mom, I want to make maps."" ""That's wonderful Eugene. You could make maps of Toronto."" ""No, I want to make maps of planets."" ""Yeah, go to your room."" (Laughter) Martians, Venusians, Jovians. We have names for places where people don't exist. That seems a little silly to me. There are no Jovians. Getting back to my premise, I used stamps, by the way, because you don't have to pay anybody for the rights. (Laughter) (Applause) There is obviously Einstein, Niels Bohr, de Fermat's last theorem, and I'm not sure whether that's James Coburn or Richard Harris. (Laughter) It's definitely one of the two. I'm not really clear which one. But obviously the point is that numbers are maps. And within numbers, is there an underlying secret to the universe? That is the premise of this particular presentation. By the way, that's a natural picture of Saturn, no adjustments. I mean that's just beautiful. So beautiful that I will even give up a laugh to explain my love of this particular planet, and the day Saturday, named after it, wonderfully. So, formulas relate number to form. That's Euler, his formula was one of the inspirations that lead to the beginning of string theory which is kind of cool, not that funny, but it is cool. (Laughter) He was also famous for having no body. (Laughter) Which a lot of you are like, ""How did he figure that out?"" He's got no body, no man, just a head floating high. Here comes Euler. (Laughter) And that's an icosahedron, which is one of the five sacred solids, very important shapes. You see the icosahedron again. The dodecahedron, it's dual. There is a dodecahedron which I had to do in my room last night. The five sacred solids, as you can see there. Which is not to be confused with the five sacred salads. (Laughter) Blue cheese, ranch, oil and vinegar, thousand islands and house. I suggest the house. The reality, now here is something important. What's important about this is these shapes are duals of each other. And you can see how the icosahedron withdraws into the dodecahedron and then they just merge into each other. So, the whole concept of branes in the universe, if the universe is shaped like a dodecahedron this is a very good map of what could possibly be. And that is, of course, what we are here to talk about. What a coincidence! October 9th, in France, Jean-Pierre Luminet said that the universe is probably shaped like a dodecahedron, based on information that they got from this probe. This would be a normal wave pattern. But what they're seeing, way out there in the far reaches of the microwave background, is this kind of odd undulation. It doesn't plug in to what they suspected a flat universe would be. So, you can kind of get an idea from this extrapolating that back under this huge picture, so we get this idea of what the primal universe looked like. And judging from this, it looks a little like a cheeseburger. (Laughter) So, I'm thinking the universe is either a dodecahedron or a cheeseburger. And for me, that's a win-win. Everybody goes, I'm happy. (Laughter) Better really hurry up. I just threw this in because as important as all of our intellectual abilities are, without heart and without love it's just — it's all meaningless. And that, to me, is really beautiful. (Laughter) Except for that creepy guy in the background. (Laughter) Getting back to the point of my particular presentation, Kepler, one of my great heroes, who realized that these five solids, which I spoke of earlier, were related somehow to the planets, but he couldn't prove it. It freaked him out. But it did lead to Newton discovering gravity. So, maps of things leading to organized understandings of the universe in which we emerge. Now this is Isaac from a Vietnamese stamp. (Laughter) I am not suggesting at all that my Vietnamese brothers and sisters could maybe use a little art class here and there. But ... (Laughter) that's not a good picture. (Laughter) Not a good picture. Now, my friends in the island of Nevis are a little better. Look at that! That's Isaac Newton. That guy is rockin'. (Laughter) What a handsome cat. Once again, Nicaragua let me down. (Laughter) And Copernicus looks like Johnny Carson, which is really weird. (Laughter) I don't get that at all. Once again, these guys rock it out. Isaac is kickin' ass. Man, he looks like a rock star. This is freaky is a major way. This is Sierra Leone. They got little babies in there, floating in there. (Laughter) Man. I don't really need to comment on this. But I didn't know that Isaac Newton was in the Moody Blues. Did you? (Laughter) When did this happen? (Laughter) It's a different kind of course. And they've got five apples? I mean these guys are extrapolating in realms that are not necessarily valid. Although five is a good number, of course. Ecuador, my friend Kepler, as you can see, they call him Juan. (Laughter) Juan? No! Johannes, not Juan. It wasn't Carlos Chaplain. It's wrong. (Laughter) René Descartes, of course. Once again these Grenada people, this is like way too sick for anybody's imagination. He's all murky. There is little kids leaning on his leg, little ghosts flying around. We gotta clean this stuff up fast, ladies and gentlemen. (Laughter) This is, of course, the Cartesian coordinates. Once again, that's Sierra Leone. This is again, indicating how numbers relate to space relate to form, maps of the universe. Because that's why we're here, really, I think to figure stuff out and to love each other. Descartes. (Laughter) Before the horse. (Laughter) Now, Monaco took Descartes, and just flipped him around. Now, Monaco is problematic for me, and I'll show you why. Here is a map. All they have is a casino on it. (Laughter) And why Franklin Delano Roosevelt is on their map I don't even want to hazard a guess. But I'd say he'd been to Hellespointica Depressio recently. (Laughter) This is the flag of Monaco. Ladies and gentlemen, the flag of Indonesia. Please examine. (Laughter) (Applause) Not sure how this came to be, but it's not right. In Monaco, ""No, what are you talking about? They are so different. Look, ours is more red, it's longer. They stole our flag! They stole our flag!"" (Laughter) Bode's law wasn't even his law. It was a guy named Titus. And the reason I just bring this up because it is a law that doesn't really work. That's Jude Law and some of his films recently didn't work. (Laughter) Just a correlation that indicates how things are misinterpreted. And I wonder if the photographer said, ""Okay, Jude, could you touch your tooth? That's good."" Just a tip, if you're being photographed for press pictures, don't touch your teeth. (Laughter) Prime numbers, Gauss, one of my favorites. Golden section, I've been obsessed with this thing since before I was born. I know that scares a lot of you, but that was my purpose entirely. There we can see Fibonacci numbers related to the Golden Section, because Fibonacci and Golden Section relate to the unfolding of the measured meter of matter, as I refer to it. If Fibonacci had been on Paxil, (Laughter) that would be the Fibonacci series. ""Ten milligram, 20 milligram."" ""Leonardo, dinner's ready, put down those books and take your pills."" ""Yes, Mama."" (Laughter) Alright where is this going? That's a good question. Here is the premise that I began 27 years ago. If numbers can express the laws of this incredible universe that we live, I reason, through some sort of reverse engineering, we could extrapolate from them some basic structural element of this universe. And that's what I did. Twenty-seven years ago I started working on this. And I tried to build a particle accelerator. (Laughter) And that didn't work out well. So, then I thought a calculator is a metaphor. I can just divide numbers, that's like atom smashing. That's what I did. That's how I found Moleeds. Moleeds are what I believe the thing that will allow string theory to be proved. They are the nodes on the string, patterns and relationships, 27, 37. That was the first chart I came up with. You can see, even if you don't go for the numbers, the beauty of the symmetry. The numbers from one to 36, divided into six groups. Symmetry, pairs. Every top adds up to 37. Bottom, all 74. There is so many intricate relationships that I'm not going to go there now, because you would say, ""Hey, go back to the Fluctus part."" (Laughter) Circle of Fifths, acoustic harmony, geometric symmetry. I knew those two were related. Once again, the Cartesian kind of cross-over. So, I said if I'm going to put a circle, see what kind of patterns I get, boom, the Red System. Look at that. You can't just make this stuff up, ladies and gentlemen. (Laughter) You can't just go around going, ""Oh, I'm going to put some triangles in a circle and they're going to be symmetrical. And they're all going to add up, and it's going to be, oh yeah, I figured that out."" This is beyond anything anybody could just make up. There is the Orange System. (Laughter) And you'll see over here, these are multiples of the number 27. And they recapitulate that shape, even though that's a circle of nine and that's a circle of 36. It's nuts. (Laughter) That's the Green System. It all folds in half on the Green System, right between 18 and 19. The Blue System. The Violet. It's all there. (Laughter) Look at that! I mean you cannot make that stuff up. (Laughter) That just doesn't fall out of a tree, ladies and gentlemen. Twenty-seven years of my life! (Laughter) And I'm presenting it here at TED. Why? Because this is the place if aliens land, I hope they come here. (Laughter) ""We are going to destroy the Earth. Hmmm ... maybe not."" (Laughter) In this last year I have found these subsequent systems which allow for the mathematic possibilities of the Calabi-Yau manifolds in a way that doesn't necessitate these little hidden dimensions. Which works mathematically, but it just doesn't seem God-like to me. It just seems like it's not sexy and elegant, it's hidden. I don't want hidden, I want to see it. (Laughter) I found other pairs all have symmetry, even though, unlike the master one, their symmetry is split. Unbelievable. This is like crazy. Am I the only one that sees this? (Laughter) You know, I didn't just draw this in a day, by the way. You know, try making some charts like this at home. You gotta be accurate! There's measurement involved, increments. These are maps, by the way. Not stamps, but one day. (Laughter) Okay, I'm getting to the punch. Golden Ratio, it's crazy. And look at this, built within it is the Golden Ratio. I start looking at that, and look at them again. They start looking like planets. I go to JPL. I look at the orbits of the planets. I find 18 examples of it in our solar system. I never told anybody. This is the first thing. This could be history. (Laughter) Kepler was right. (Laughter) Eighteen and 19, the middle of the Moleeds, 0.618 is the golden section. Multiply them together, 18.618 x 19.618 is 365.247. Which is .005 different from the number of days in a year. Hey, you can't make this up. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"我將要告訴你們一些秘密很明顯地, 要洩漏一個祕密最好的方法就是告訴別人你千萬不要說出去(笑)秘密是: 我今年要使用投影片來做報告了因為,你們知道的,我要做TED演講(笑)而當你做這樣的事情的時候，你其實不必這樣做你就按一下就好了(笑)喔不,嗯,OK了(笑)好啦,我非常確定,就換到下一張吧!(笑)比爾蓋茲在這裡嗎?換一張! 拜託! 什麼?(笑)噢! OK!這張不是我的投影片, 不過也還算OK啦(笑) 就像你看到的,這裡有非常多張地圖而地圖是傳達訊息非常重要的方式特別是擁有人類認知的能力時我們可見其實所有的公式都真的是地圖而現在,我們人類為很多地方製作地圖有些地方甚至我們連去都沒去過而這似乎有些浪費時間 這是一個月球上的地圖而他們都有非常可愛的名字坦揆拉克緹雅斯。噢,我最喜歡的名字是""冷海""這些人們到底在想些什麼? 冷海?到底在搞什麼鬼? 名字是非常重要的!冷海? 這裡是月球上耶, 我們很有可能某天就會住在那裏的我等等跟你約在冷海見! 不,我才不要呢(笑) 我們接著看到火星, 一樣的,上頭有很多不一樣的名字順便提一下.這些都是國際天文連會所命名的他們其實就不過是一群人們坐在一邊嘗試想要命名這些天文行星這些都是從他們的書上出來的而上面這些是他們選出來的一些名字,大家注意聽了 我將要來唸唸其中的幾個. 波諾尼斯塔這,其實是斯拉夫語中的濕地美人魚的意思(笑)而我覺得美人魚的這種形象並不是那麼適合沼澤地的感覺(笑)""你看! 美人魚從沼澤中爬出來了,天啊! ""沼澤美人魚的時間到囉!!(笑) 狄加布朗 樸朗克緹絲這念起來也太拗口了吧, 到底在搞什麼鬼(笑)我的意思是, 當孩子們在學這個東西的時候他們都只會念成樸朗克塔斯 這是錯的!(笑)對有閱讀障礙的小孩來說,這可能會毀掉他的生活的!(笑)""媽媽,我好困惑喔"" 海庫里歐 樸朗克緹絲這聽起來順口多了. 海庫里歐聽起來有點像李奧納多狄卡皮歐17個音節這可是湯家的黑暗面啊 而我喜歡的另一個名字則是, 伊托基 樸朗克緹絲這個字的意思是尼加拉瓜主管蟲類,星宿,和行星的女神如果你是一個掌管行星和星球的女神你會不會想要把這些蟲子丟給其他人呢(笑)""呃,我忙這些星星的事就忙不過來了""你可不可以幫我照顧這些蟲子呢, 真是太感謝你了噢,拜託也拿走那些蜘蛛吧,我知道他們不是蟲子,但誰管它猴子啊,黑猩猩啊,你就把所有毛茸茸的東西全部帶走吧!!""(笑) 我們未來有一天將會登上火星 而如果我們這麼做了之後其實對那些本來就住在火星上的人很不公平的阿他們必須要接受這些愚蠢的名字嗯,你會在火星上,而且位在哈雷波提卡 迪皮西歐你也算是在一個十分高的地方了吧(笑) 是阿,我在迪皮西歐,而我等等要穿越阿瑪遜尼斯所以我就把他加入了火星的地圖裡了而按下這個鍵之後, 指示就會出現了我要去奎離索柯拉斯(笑) 他就在泰咪亞瑪塔的左方然後會到達尼李阿庫斯 拉庫斯這說實在不是個太爛的名字啦尼李阿庫斯 拉庫斯,練習一下就好了,跟著節奏我會說,這是一個很酷的名字啊所以我覺得我還是不要太針對這些天文命名家好了 然後當然, 我們要從亞諾穿越圖特而這裡當然要放些廣告這些都是從國際天文協會的規則書裡頭出來的而你知道他們之所以被稱為國際 是因為他們在上頭也放上了法文的版本國際天文協會(法文)對於那些不會說法文的人我想我可以替你們翻譯 從書上說: 命名法只是一個工具而已首要的考慮條件是,要非常清楚,簡潔而不模糊而我覺得這個戴布朗樸朗克緹絲完全的符合這項標準(笑)這很簡單啊.山羊的女神嘛.非常簡單戴布朗樸朗可提斯""嘿Frank, 你了解這個戴布朗樸朗克緹絲的意思了嗎?""""當然,就是那個山羊女神對吧? 阿巴卡遜那?""(笑)我知道的阿聽著,我要回去沼澤美人魚那裏了,你等等再打給我好嗎?(笑) 而且 從真實的文件中我強調了一些可能會很有趣的重點每一個人都可以對改變名字提出建議所以說就靠你們了,這些還在地球上的人們阿我們一定要快點把這些東西改掉而這些是在國際天文協會工作的人們的真實姓名我又做了更多的調查這些是更多在那邊工作的人的名字然後 就像你們看到的 他們甚至不放他們的名字上去(笑)這些人們嘗試想要為行星命名 可是他們甚至卻不放他們的名字上去這其中一定有什麼問題(笑)這是因為其實他的名字叫做木星‧布朗克? (J. Blunck)(笑)而這個又是木蘭‧三仙女座‧布巴? (G. A. Burba)(笑)而這個是火星‧馬羅夫? (M. Marov)不曉得, 但這個毫無疑問是調查不出來的 而某些人確實也有使用他們真實的名字看著吧, 尤金.舒美克是一個從小時候就非常勤奮決定他以後要為這些天空飛行的物體繪圖這天一定是舒美客家一個非常有趣的一天""媽 我想要畫地圖""""這非常棒啊 尤金 你可以為多倫多畫一個地圖呢""""不 我想要替行星畫地圖""""好吧 快回房間吧""(笑) 火星 金星 木星我們為這些根本沒有人類存在的地方命了名對我來說這看起來有點愚蠢這裡沒有朱維安 回去我之前提到的 對了 我是使用油票因為這樣就不用負任何版權了(笑)(掌聲)這很明顯地是愛因斯坦 尼爾希波爾迪福瑪斯的最新定理 但我不確定這是不是詹姆斯柯柏的或是瑞琪哈利斯的(笑)這一定是他們兩個的其中一個 但我不確定是哪個人的 但明顯的說來 這些數字就是圖示而在這些數字單中 有沒有藏著什麼宇宙的秘密呢這是我之前演說中提到的順便說一下 這是一張土星的沒修過片的照片完全沒修過 這實在是太漂亮了我找不到什麼更特別的話來表達我是多麼喜歡這個特殊的行星然後""星期六""這個詞 是依照土星的命名方式來命名的 所以 這些牽扯到數字的公式們就形成了這是尤拉 他們公式是發現弦定理的靈感來源之一這不是那們的可笑 而且頗為酷(笑)他也以沒有身體而聞名 (照片只有一個人頭圖像)(笑)你們之中很多人可能會想 ""他到底怎麼解出這些的?""他可沒有身體啊 喔布 就只有一顆頭浮在空中尤拉來囉(笑) 這是一個二十面體這是五個神聖的立方體之一 非常著名的形狀你又看到了一種二十面體這個十二面體是雙面的這是我昨天晚上在我房間裡做的而你看到的這五種神聖的立方體可不要跟五種神聖的沙拉搞混了(笑)帶藍紋的乳酪 牧場 橄欖油和醋 還有群島和房屋我推薦房屋 事實是 接下來有真正重要的要出現了真正重點就是這些圖形都是相對的你可以看到這個二十面體可以如何變成十二面體他們兩個之間合併的非常的好所以 宇宙外層的概念就是假設宇宙是一個十二面體這張圖完整的展示了他可能會變成的樣子當然 這就是我們準備要談論的問題 這真是巧合啊!十月九號 在法國的真 皮埃爾 魯米娜說這個宇宙的形狀很有可能就是一個十二面體從他們的研究資料顯示出的這是一個很正常的波動模型但他們從無線電背景裡看到的離標準的波動模型相差及遠並且是有一點零散的這和他們原本認為的 宇宙是扁平的假說不符 所以你可以稍微了解到從這個非常龐大的背景之中所以我們可以開始了解到這個主要的宇宙長的會像是什麼樣子從這張圖來看 他看起來有點像是起斯漢堡(笑)所以就我來說 我覺得宇宙不是一個十二面體或者是一個起斯漢堡對我來說 這是雙贏啊不管誰走我都會很高興的(笑)大家最好加快腳步囉 我提這個是因爲和我們智力一樣重要的是如果沒有情感和愛，一切都沒有意義這張圖對我而言，真的狠美（笑）除了後面那個讓人不舒服的人以外（笑） 回到我之前的那個觀點開普勒，我狠喜歡的一個偉大的英雄他發現我之前提到的那個五面體和行星多少有點關系但是他無法證明這個事情，這讓很他傷腦筋可這卻使牛頓發現了地心引力所以，事物的地圖使我們對賴以生存的宇宙有了更有條理的認識 現在我們看到的這個是越南郵票上的伊薩（笑）我並不是想說越南的兄弟姐妹們或許應該去上幾門美術課，可是（笑）這張郵票做得真的不怎么样（笑）狠一般狠一般。我在維尼斯島的朋友們把圖做得要好一些。你看，這是艾薩克.牛頓這家夥看上去帥極了（笑）像只狠俊俏的貓 又來了，這次是尼加拉瓜，讓我狠失望（笑）康普尼克斯看起來像約翰.尼克森，有點奇怪（笑）我完全無法理解真的，這些人都太帥了艾薩克真了不起，噢，看啦，他就像一個搖滾明星一樣這真夢幻這是賽納裏昂他們居然讓小孩子那樣漂浮著（笑） 唉，我不想評論什麽但是我居然不知道牛頓是不是穆迪.布魯斯樂隊的（意指心情不好）你們知道嗎（笑）這是什麽時候的事啊？（笑）當然類型不同。他們有5個蘋果嗎我指的是這些人在鑽研科技的時候都沒有邏輯性盡管5這個數字不錯 厄瓜多爾，我朋友開普勒你能清楚地發現，被他們叫做萬（笑）萬? 錯了，是約翰不是什麽萬這不是卡洛斯牧師，搞什麽飛機啊（笑） 勒內.笛卡爾，又來了這次是格林納達人，這個方法太可怕了令人難以想象他看上去狠難過，他腿上居然還有個小孩倚在那裏幽靈在周圍飄舞我想我們還是別看了（笑） 這是笛卡爾坐標又是薩拉.裏昂這一次又顯示了數字和空間，空間和宇宙，還有圖示之間的關系這就是我們聚在這裏的原因，我們搞清楚問題的真相，英雄相惜 笛卡爾在馬的前面那麽現在摩納哥取代了笛卡爾，推翻了他的理論其實說起來摩納哥和我還有點瓜葛，我馬上會告訴你原因從這張地圖上我們可以看到，上面只有一個賭場（笑）爲什麽羅斯福總統會在這張郵票上呢我不想去猜測但是我說過他最近去了海裏斯龐提卡.迪普瑞斯（意爲凹陷）（笑） 大家看，這是摩納哥的國旗這面是印尼的國旗。請比較（笑）（鼓掌）不知道爲什麽會這樣，但是這樣肯定不對在摩納哥，人們會說，“你說什麽呢，它們是不一樣的”看，我們的旗更紅，更長他們偷了我們的國旗！是他們偷了我們的國旗！（笑） 彼得定律不是他首創的，而是一個叫提图的人提出的。我真正想說的是，這個定律一點都不管用。而這位是裘德洛，他的六部電影確實沒有什麽票房。（Bode\'s law and Jude Law 發音聽上去有點像。暗諷Bode的定律。）（笑）這裏只是舉了個例子向大家展示平時誤會是怎樣産生的。 我想，攝影師肯定告訴裘德洛“嘿，jude，你可不可以用手碰著你的牙齒，像這樣，對，對。這裏提個醒，拍照的時候可千萬別像這樣用手碰你的牙齒。質數，高斯，我狠喜歡。（笑） 質數，高斯，我狠喜歡。黃金分割，在我還沒出生我就迷戀上它。我知道這些東西都是狠多人的噩夢，那我就達到目的了。我們從這張圖可以看到斐波那契數列和黃金分割有關聯我說過，因爲他們關系到測量儀表的運作。如果斐波那契是通過吃Paxil來控制抑郁（笑）下面這個就是斐波那契數列了。10毫克，20毫克...雷昂那多，晚飯好了，別看書了把藥吃了快。好的，媽媽（笑） 我們現在講到哪呢？問得好這是我27年前做出的假設如果數字能表現宇宙的規則，那麽人類所居住的環境是多麽的偉大啊。我相信，通過一些逆向工程我們可以從中得出一些宇宙運行的基本規則及結構單位。這就是我在做的事情。27年前，我開始研究這個東西 我嘗試著做一個質子加速器，（笑）但是卻失敗了那時，我認爲計算機是一個比喻我只是拆數，像原子爆炸那樣那就是我所做的，我就是這樣發現了莫利德我相信，弦理論可以用來證實它的作用。他們就像是弦上的點。模型和關系中，27，37...這是我繪出的第一張圖 即使不喜歡數字的人也狠容易發現，對稱的美妙從1到36，共6租每2租對稱頂上2數相加之和是37底部相加之和是74還有更多狠複雜的關系，我就不贅述因爲你會打斷我，“你還是講講伏流克斯吧（笑） 調音器和五度圈，聲音協調，圖像對稱我知道它們肯定是有關系的再提一下笛卡爾坐標好，我在這裏畫這樣一個圈看看我得到什麽樣的圖形噢，我們不能這樣做（笑）我們不能這樣的不專業，應該認真一點。好，我在圓裏畫一個三角形他們要互相對稱，而且要非常合理像這樣 哦，不，不行，任何人都做不到的這是橙色系。你看這，這些都是27的倍數（笑）你看這，這些都是27的倍數他們總結出這個模式雖然這只是9和36的倍數。簡直是亂彈琴（笑）這是綠色系，都是對半折的正好在18和19之間然後是藍色系，紫色系，都有的（笑）我想說的是，這是我們做不到的（笑）女士們，先生們，這可不想放棄一棵樹那麽簡單這可是我27年來的心血。（笑）現在我把它在這裏展示你們，爲什麽呢因爲如果外星人要造訪地球的話，我希望他們能到這裏來（笑）“我們要毀滅地球”等等，或許還是不要了（笑） 去年，我發現你了下面的體系考慮到多樣態流型在數學上的可能性這沒有使得這些隱藏的圖變得有意義這些屬于數學範圍，我並不感興趣這看上去好像不那麽迷人。我們看不到我可不想這樣被藏著，我想看到它（笑） 我發現其它的幾對也都是對稱的雖然不像最主要的那個一樣，這些對稱都是分開的不可思議吧。太可怕了難道只有我一個人看到嗎？（笑）我想大家都知道，我可不是一天完成它的。要想在家做好一些圖的話，你必須做到非常的精准！這涉及到很多單位的問題，度量增量等。說起來，這些都可是地圖啊。不是什麽郵票，但也可能有這樣的一天。（笑） 繼續，下面是黃金分割。這也很巧妙。你看，這裏面是黃金分割。我開始觀看，仔細地看了狠久，發現他們很像行星體。我去了噴氣推進實驗室。然後觀察了行星的運行軌道。我發現太遠系有18種這樣的例子。我從沒有告訴過任何人，這是第一次，這可能成爲歷史。（笑）開普勒是對的。（笑）18和19，莫利德的中間點。0.618，黃金分割點把它們相乘，得到365.247這和一年365天僅.005的差別啊 你不能亂編啊（笑）非常感谢（鼓掌）謝謝（鼓掌）謝謝大家（鼓掌）"
