Talk	en	zh-tw
chimamanda_adichie_the_danger_of_a_single_story	"I'm a storyteller. And I would like to tell you a few personal stories about what I like to call ""the danger of the single story."" I grew up on a university campus in eastern Nigeria. My mother says that I started reading at the age of two, although I think four is probably close to the truth. So I was an early reader, and what I read were British and American children's books. I was also an early writer, and when I began to write, at about the age of seven, stories in pencil with crayon illustrations that my poor mother was obligated to read, I wrote exactly the kinds of stories I was reading: All my characters were white and blue-eyed, they played in the snow, they ate apples, (Laughter) and they talked a lot about the weather, how lovely it was that the sun had come out. (Laughter) Now, this despite the fact that I lived in Nigeria. I had never been outside Nigeria. We didn't have snow, we ate mangoes, and we never talked about the weather, because there was no need to. My characters also drank a lot of ginger beer, because the characters in the British books I read drank ginger beer. Never mind that I had no idea what ginger beer was. (Laughter) And for many years afterwards, I would have a desperate desire to taste ginger beer. But that is another story. What this demonstrates, I think, is how impressionable and vulnerable we are in the face of a story, particularly as children. Because all I had read were books in which characters were foreign, I had become convinced that books by their very nature had to have foreigners in them and had to be about things with which I could not personally identify. Now, things changed when I discovered African books. There weren't many of them available, and they weren't quite as easy to find as the foreign books. But because of writers like Chinua Achebe and Camara Laye, I went through a mental shift in my perception of literature. I realized that people like me, girls with skin the color of chocolate, whose kinky hair could not form ponytails, could also exist in literature. I started to write about things I recognized. Now, I loved those American and British books I read. They stirred my imagination. They opened up new worlds for me. But the unintended consequence was that I did not know that people like me could exist in literature. So what the discovery of African writers did for me was this: It saved me from having a single story of what books are. I come from a conventional, middle-class Nigerian family. My father was a professor. My mother was an administrator. And so we had, as was the norm, live-in domestic help, who would often come from nearby rural villages. So, the year I turned eight, we got a new house boy. His name was Fide. The only thing my mother told us about him was that his family was very poor. My mother sent yams and rice, and our old clothes, to his family. And when I didn't finish my dinner, my mother would say, ""Finish your food! Don't you know? People like Fide's family have nothing."" So I felt enormous pity for Fide's family. Then one Saturday, we went to his village to visit, and his mother showed us a beautifully patterned basket made of dyed raffia that his brother had made. I was startled. It had not occurred to me that anybody in his family could actually make something. All I had heard about them was how poor they were, so that it had become impossible for me to see them as anything else but poor. Their poverty was my single story of them. Years later, I thought about this when I left Nigeria to go to university in the United States. I was 19. My American roommate was shocked by me. She asked where I had learned to speak English so well, and was confused when I said that Nigeria happened to have English as its official language. She asked if she could listen to what she called my ""tribal music,"" and was consequently very disappointed when I produced my tape of Mariah Carey. (Laughter) She assumed that I did not know how to use a stove. What struck me was this: She had felt sorry for me even before she saw me. Her default position toward me, as an African, was a kind of patronizing, well-meaning pity. My roommate had a single story of Africa: a single story of catastrophe. In this single story, there was no possibility of Africans being similar to her in any way, no possibility of feelings more complex than pity, no possibility of a connection as human equals. I must say that before I went to the U.S., I didn't consciously identify as African. But in the U.S., whenever Africa came up, people turned to me. Never mind that I knew nothing about places like Namibia. But I did come to embrace this new identity, and in many ways I think of myself now as African. Although I still get quite irritable when Africa is referred to as a country, the most recent example being my otherwise wonderful flight from Lagos two days ago, in which there was an announcement on the Virgin flight about the charity work in ""India, Africa and other countries."" (Laughter) So, after I had spent some years in the U.S. as an African, I began to understand my roommate's response to me. If I had not grown up in Nigeria, and if all I knew about Africa were from popular images, I too would think that Africa was a place of beautiful landscapes, beautiful animals, and incomprehensible people, fighting senseless wars, dying of poverty and AIDS, unable to speak for themselves and waiting to be saved by a kind, white foreigner. I would see Africans in the same way that I, as a child, had seen Fide's family. This single story of Africa ultimately comes, I think, from Western literature. Now, here is a quote from the writing of a London merchant called John Lok, who sailed to west Africa in 1561 and kept a fascinating account of his voyage. After referring to the black Africans as ""beasts who have no houses,"" he writes, ""They are also people without heads, having their mouth and eyes in their breasts."" Now, I've laughed every time I've read this. And one must admire the imagination of John Lok. But what is important about his writing is that it represents the beginning of a tradition of telling African stories in the West: A tradition of Sub-Saharan Africa as a place of negatives, of difference, of darkness, of people who, in the words of the wonderful poet Rudyard Kipling, are ""half devil, half child."" And so, I began to realize that my American roommate must have throughout her life seen and heard different versions of this single story, as had a professor, who once told me that my novel was not ""authentically African."" Now, I was quite willing to contend that there were a number of things wrong with the novel, that it had failed in a number of places, but I had not quite imagined that it had failed at achieving something called African authenticity. In fact, I did not know what African authenticity was. The professor told me that my characters were too much like him, an educated and middle-class man. My characters drove cars. They were not starving. Therefore they were not authentically African. But I must quickly add that I too am just as guilty in the question of the single story. A few years ago, I visited Mexico from the U.S. The political climate in the U.S. at the time was tense, and there were debates going on about immigration. And, as often happens in America, immigration became synonymous with Mexicans. There were endless stories of Mexicans as people who were fleecing the healthcare system, sneaking across the border, being arrested at the border, that sort of thing. I remember walking around on my first day in Guadalajara, watching the people going to work, rolling up tortillas in the marketplace, smoking, laughing. I remember first feeling slight surprise. And then, I was overwhelmed with shame. I realized that I had been so immersed in the media coverage of Mexicans that they had become one thing in my mind, the abject immigrant. I had bought into the single story of Mexicans and I could not have been more ashamed of myself. So that is how to create a single story, show a people as one thing, as only one thing, over and over again, and that is what they become. It is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power. There is a word, an Igbo word, that I think about whenever I think about the power structures of the world, and it is ""nkali."" It's a noun that loosely translates to ""to be greater than another."" Like our economic and political worlds, stories too are defined by the principle of nkali: How they are told, who tells them, when they're told, how many stories are told, are really dependent on power. Power is the ability not just to tell the story of another person, but to make it the definitive story of that person. The Palestinian poet Mourid Barghouti writes that if you want to dispossess a people, the simplest way to do it is to tell their story and to start with, ""secondly."" Start the story with the arrows of the Native Americans, and not with the arrival of the British, and you have an entirely different story. Start the story with the failure of the African state, and not with the colonial creation of the African state, and you have an entirely different story. I recently spoke at a university where a student told me that it was such a shame that Nigerian men were physical abusers like the father character in my novel. I told him that I had just read a novel called ""American Psycho"" — (Laughter) — and that it was such a shame that young Americans were serial murderers. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, obviously I said this in a fit of mild irritation. (Laughter) But it would never have occurred to me to think that just because I had read a novel in which a character was a serial killer that he was somehow representative of all Americans. This is not because I am a better person than that student, but because of America's cultural and economic power, I had many stories of America. I had read Tyler and Updike and Steinbeck and Gaitskill. I did not have a single story of America. When I learned, some years ago, that writers were expected to have had really unhappy childhoods to be successful, I began to think about how I could invent horrible things my parents had done to me. (Laughter) But the truth is that I had a very happy childhood, full of laughter and love, in a very close-knit family. But I also had grandfathers who died in refugee camps. My cousin Polle died because he could not get adequate healthcare. One of my closest friends, Okoloma, died in a plane crash because our fire trucks did not have water. I grew up under repressive military governments that devalued education, so that sometimes, my parents were not paid their salaries. And so, as a child, I saw jam disappear from the breakfast table, then margarine disappeared, then bread became too expensive, then milk became rationed. And most of all, a kind of normalized political fear invaded our lives. All of these stories make me who I am. But to insist on only these negative stories is to flatten my experience and to overlook the many other stories that formed me. The single story creates stereotypes, and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete. They make one story become the only story. Of course, Africa is a continent full of catastrophes: There are immense ones, such as the horrific rapes in Congo and depressing ones, such as the fact that 5,000 people apply for one job vacancy in Nigeria. But there are other stories that are not about catastrophe, and it is very important, it is just as important, to talk about them. I've always felt that it is impossible to engage properly with a place or a person without engaging with all of the stories of that place and that person. The consequence of the single story is this: It robs people of dignity. It makes our recognition of our equal humanity difficult. It emphasizes how we are different rather than how we are similar. So what if before my Mexican trip, I had followed the immigration debate from both sides, the U.S. and the Mexican? What if my mother had told us that Fide's family was poor and hardworking? What if we had an African television network that broadcast diverse African stories all over the world? What the Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe calls ""a balance of stories."" What if my roommate knew about my Nigerian publisher, Muhtar Bakare, a remarkable man who left his job in a bank to follow his dream and start a publishing house? Now, the conventional wisdom was that Nigerians don't read literature. He disagreed. He felt that people who could read, would read, if you made literature affordable and available to them. Shortly after he published my first novel, I went to a TV station in Lagos to do an interview, and a woman who worked there as a messenger came up to me and said, ""I really liked your novel. I didn't like the ending. Now, you must write a sequel, and this is what will happen ..."" (Laughter) And she went on to tell me what to write in the sequel. I was not only charmed, I was very moved. Here was a woman, part of the ordinary masses of Nigerians, who were not supposed to be readers. She had not only read the book, but she had taken ownership of it and felt justified in telling me what to write in the sequel. Now, what if my roommate knew about my friend Funmi Iyanda, a fearless woman who hosts a TV show in Lagos, and is determined to tell the stories that we prefer to forget? What if my roommate knew about the heart procedure that was performed in the Lagos hospital last week? What if my roommate knew about contemporary Nigerian music, talented people singing in English and Pidgin, and Igbo and Yoruba and Ijo, mixing influences from Jay-Z to Fela to Bob Marley to their grandfathers. What if my roommate knew about the female lawyer who recently went to court in Nigeria to challenge a ridiculous law that required women to get their husband's consent before renewing their passports? What if my roommate knew about Nollywood, full of innovative people making films despite great technical odds, films so popular that they really are the best example of Nigerians consuming what they produce? What if my roommate knew about my wonderfully ambitious hair braider, who has just started her own business selling hair extensions? Or about the millions of other Nigerians who start businesses and sometimes fail, but continue to nurse ambition? Every time I am home I am confronted with the usual sources of irritation for most Nigerians: our failed infrastructure, our failed government, but also by the incredible resilience of people who thrive despite the government, rather than because of it. I teach writing workshops in Lagos every summer, and it is amazing to me how many people apply, how many people are eager to write, to tell stories. My Nigerian publisher and I have just started a non-profit called Farafina Trust, and we have big dreams of building libraries and refurbishing libraries that already exist and providing books for state schools that don't have anything in their libraries, and also of organizing lots and lots of workshops, in reading and writing, for all the people who are eager to tell our many stories. Stories matter. Many stories matter. Stories have been used to dispossess and to malign, but stories can also be used to empower and to humanize. Stories can break the dignity of a people, but stories can also repair that broken dignity. The American writer Alice Walker wrote this about her Southern relatives who had moved to the North. She introduced them to a book about the Southern life that they had left behind. ""They sat around, reading the book themselves, listening to me read the book, and a kind of paradise was regained."" I would like to end with this thought: That when we reject the single story, when we realize that there is never a single story about any place, we regain a kind of paradise. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一位作家。今天想向各位分享我的幾個故事以及一個我稱做是「單一故事的危險性」。我在奈及利亞東部的一個大學校園長大我媽媽說我兩歲就會看書，但我想四歲比較接近事實。我很小就愛看書，而我當時讀的是英美的童書。 我也很小就開始寫作。大約七歲就開始寫故事，用鉛筆寫故事加上蠟筆畫的插圖，成了我媽媽必須要看的東西。而我寫的，正是我所讀的那些故事。我的角色都是白皮膚、藍眼睛他們在雪中玩耍他們吃蘋果(笑)還有，他們常常聊到天氣，晴天是多麼的令人愉悅(笑)但這實在有點奇怪，因為我住在奈及利亞，也沒出國過我們那裡不下雪、吃的是芒果也從來不討論天氣因為實在沒什麼好說的。 我筆下的角色很常喝薑汁汽水因為那些英美童書中的角色就是喝薑汁汽水更別說我當時根本不知道薑汁汽水是什麼了(笑)而在那之後的幾年，我就非常想試試薑汁汽水的滋味但那是另一個故事了。 從我個人的經驗，我想這證明了我們對事物的印象是多麼容易受故事的影響，尤其是小孩子。因為我小時候所有的讀物書中的角色全是外國人，我自然就相信我寫的故事裡面就該有外國人也要有一些在我生活中無法親身體會的事物。後來，我發現了非洲作家的作品當時這樣的作品並不多也不像那些外國書容易取得。 但因為有Chinua Achebe和Camara Laye這些非洲作家我對文學作品的看法有很大的轉變。我了解到，像我這樣的人：巧克力膚色的女孩，頂著爆炸頭而不是綁著馬尾，也能出現在文學作品中。我開始寫作我熟悉的事物。 我也喜愛我讀的那些英美童書它們激發了我的想像力、為我開啟新的世界。但這種結果是我認為像我這樣的人無法出現在文學裡所以發現這些非洲作家的作品，讓我對於文學不再有單一故事 我們家是普通的中產階級我的父親是教授母親是行政人員也因此家境還不錯，家裡也有能力請傭人來幫忙我八歲那年，來家裡幫忙的是個男孩叫做 Fide。媽媽唯一告訴我們的是他們家非常窮我媽媽會送蕃薯、米和一些舊衣服給他們家。如果我晚餐沒吃完，我媽會說「把飯吃完！妳不知道Fide他們家的人都沒東西吃嗎。」所以我非常可憐 Fide。 一個星期六，我們拜訪他們的村落。他媽媽給我們看了一個編織精美的籃子，是他哥哥用染色的棕櫚樹葉編成的我嚇傻了。我從沒想過他們家的人有能力作出那樣的東西我所聽到的只有他們多窮所以我眼中的他們，除了窮之外看不到別的。他們的貧窮是我對他們的單一故事 幾年後，我到美國唸大學我又想起這件事當時19歲我的美籍室友被我嚇到了。她問我去哪學這麼標準的英文聽到我回答，奈及利亞的官方語言剛好是英文時，她還一臉疑惑。她請我放放我的「部落音樂」結果看到我拿出瑪麗亞凱莉的時候整個大感失望。(笑)她想當然地認為我不會用爐子 我突然意識到，她還沒見過我就已經可憐我了。她對我這個非洲人的預設立場是可憐、好意的憐憫我室友對非洲有個單一故事就是它充滿災難。在這單一故事裡，容不下非洲與她有任何相似之處容不下除了憐憫之外的態度容不下同是人類則生而平等。 我承認我到美國之前沒有完全意識到自己是非洲人。但在美國，只要提到「非洲」，大家就會轉向我也不管我對像納米比亞的地方一點都不了解。但我雙手擁抱這個新身分在很多面向我認為自己是非洲人。但聽到大家把非洲當成一個國家時我還是會有點生氣。最近一次，就是在兩天前拉哥斯起飛的班機上這趟旅行近乎完美就差在維京航空的機上廣播關於「印度、非洲、和其他國家」的慈善工作(笑) 在美國當了幾年的非洲人之後我漸漸了解我室友的反應。如果我不是在奈及利亞長大，我所認識的非洲就會是普遍的形象，我也會認為非洲充滿了漂亮的風景、美麗的動物和野蠻人打著沒意義的仗、死於貧窮與愛滋沒有思想等待好心的白人來拯救我們我看待非洲就會像小時候看待 Fide 家那樣 這種對於非洲的單一故事，我想是從西方文學開始的。下面是一位英國商人約翰洛克所寫的，他在1561年航行到西非並且詳細的記下他的航程。在形容非洲人為「沒有房子的野獸」之後他寫道: 「他們沒有頭」「嘴巴和眼睛長在胸部」 我每次讀完每次笑。大家也一定很欽佩約翰洛克的想像力。但最重要的是，他寫的東西開始了西方人眼中傳統的非洲印象一種次撒哈拉非洲的負面印象是和他們不同且黑暗的印象，住著一群，我引用詩人羅德雅．吉百齡所寫的「半是惡魔，半是人」 我漸漸了解我美國室友的想法她的一生一定聽過各種版本的單一故事，就如有位教授曾告訴我，我的小說描寫的不是「真正的非洲」。我願意承認小說裡有些錯誤的地方，不夠好的部份，但我很難想像我的小說沒有傳達「真正的非洲」。而事實上我不曉得什麼叫「真正的非洲」。那位教授說，我書中的角色太像他了受教育、中產階級。我筆下的角色開車沒有餓肚子所以他們不是真正的非洲人。 但我也要馬上承認我自己對別人也犯過單一故事的錯。幾年前，我到墨西哥當時美國的政治情況有點緊張大家都在吵移民話題。在美國就會常常聽到移民等同於墨西哥人這一類的話。還有一堆關於墨西哥人的故事說他們是如何鑽醫療系統的漏洞從邊境溜進來在邊界被逮捕之類的事。 我就記得第一天在瓜達拉哈拉逛街時看著工作的人們，市場裡有人做西班牙蛋餅抽菸、大笑。我記得我當時有點吃驚隨後感到非常丟臉我發現自己完全相信媒體所報導的墨西哥人以至於他們在我心中的形象就是卑鄙的移民。我也曾對墨西哥有單一故事我也實在感到很羞恥。單一故事的產生就是以同一種方式描述同一種人一遍又一遍，最後他們就會變成那樣。 講到單一故事就不能不講權力我想到權力就會想到伊博語裡的一個字有關世界上的權力結構的 「nkali」是個名詞，大概翻譯是「比其他人更厲害」而就像談到經濟與政治一樣故事也是建立在「nkali」的原則上故事如何傳遞、誰來傳遞，什麼時候、多少次都是由權力控制的。 權力不只能述說故事還能創造決定性的故事。巴勒斯坦詩人穆里‧巴爾古提曾說如果你想剝奪一個人的身分，最簡單的方法就是說故事而且從「第二點」開頭。所以講美國印地安人的故事時，先講他們的箭而不是英國殖民就會有全然不同的故事。先講非洲各國失敗的故事而不是被殖民的部份就會有全然不同的故事。 我最近到一所大學演講有個學生告訴我真是可恥奈及利亞的男人都很暴力就像我小說中的父親一樣我告訴他，我最近看了一本小說書名是《美國殺人魔 》(笑)真是可恥美國年輕人都是殺人魔(笑)(掌聲)當時我實在有點不悅(笑) 我從沒有因為我讀了一本關於連續殺人魔的小說我就認為所有美國人都是殺人魔當然不是因為我比那個學生好而是因為美國的文化、經濟地位所以我對美國有多重故事我讀Tyler、Updike、Steinbeck、Gaitskill的書對美國，我沒有單一故事。 幾年前我得知，讀者想看到作者悲慘的童年故事書才會暢銷，我就開始想要編一些我父母虐待我的故事(笑)但事實是，我有個快樂的童年充滿歡笑和愛，家人很親近 但同時，我祖父死在難民營我堂弟Polle因為沒有足夠的醫療照顧而去世我最好的朋友Okoloma死於墜機因為消防車上沒有水可以救火。我生活在高壓統治政府不重視教育我父母有時是領不到薪水的。所以在小時候，我看著早餐的果醬消失接著乳瑪琳消失再來麵包我們也負擔不起然後牛奶定額配給而最嚴重的是政治恐懼侵入了我們的日常生活。 這些故事造就了我但如果我堅持只寫這些故事就簡化了我個人的生活經歷，也忽略了同樣造就我的其他故事。單一故事會造成刻板印象而刻板印象的問題就是他們並非不正確而是不完整讓一個故事變成唯一的故事。 當然，非洲充滿苦難有很嚴重的，像是剛果可怕的強暴事件有很悲傷的，像是奈及利亞有五千人搶一個職缺但也有其他美好的故事述說它們，也是同等的重要 我總覺得要完全的了解一個地方或是一個人不去了解全部的故事，是不可能的。述說單一故事的後果是人們的尊嚴被奪去讓我們看不到人類的平等只強調我們有多麼不同而不是我們的相同處。 如果我去墨西哥旅行前聽過美國和墨西哥雙方的辯論事情會變的如何？如果我媽媽告訴我們Fide家雖窮卻很努力工作？如果有家非洲電視台能在各地播報非洲各種不同的故事呢？奈及利亞作家Chinua Achebe稱之為「故事的平衡」 如果我室友認識我的奈及利亞出版商Mukta Bakaray他決然的離開銀行的工作追逐他的夢想，開了家出版社大家普遍認為奈及利亞人不看書他不同意他認為人們會讀、肯讀只要文學不那麼遙不可及 他出版我第一本小說後不久我到拉哥斯一家電視台接受採訪一個工作人員走上來告訴我「我很喜歡你的書，但我不喜歡結局」「你一定要寫續集，然後要這樣這樣寫...」(笑聲)然後她繼續告訴我續集要怎麼寫。我感到榮幸而且很感動一位普通的奈及利亞女人照理說不會看書但她不只讀了我的書，還積極參與覺得有義務告訴我續集該怎麼寫 如果我室友認識我的朋友Fumi Onda勇敢的拉哥斯電視台主持人決定要述說人們寧可遺忘的故事如果我室友知道上週拉哥斯醫院的一個心臟手術，會如何呢？如果我室友知道當代奈及利亞音樂是融合各種語言的美妙樂曲，英語、皮欽語伊博語、約魯巴語、伊喬語帶點Jay-Z和菲拉庫堤的曲風從Bob Marley到他們的祖父如果我室友聽過一位女律師勇敢的在法庭上挑戰一項荒唐的立法規定女人要更新護照需要丈夫同意，會如何呢？如果我室友知道奈萊塢創意的人們利用有限的技術拍攝電影，會如何呢？電影受歡迎程度正是奈及利亞人自給自足最佳的例子如果我室友認識我的編髮師有野心的她成立了自己的造型接髮事業或是聽說過奈及利亞幾百萬人事業數度失敗還是不放棄的故事？ 我每次回家都會面對多數奈及利亞人感到不悅的事情失敗的基礎建設、失敗的政府但也看到人們在面對這樣的政府所展現的韌性而不是氣餒每年暑假我會在拉哥斯開寫作班看到那麼多申請我感到很驚訝有這麼多人急著想要寫出他們的故事。 我和我奈及利亞的出版商成立一個非營利組織叫Farafina信託我們的夢想是建圖書館整修現有的圖書館替公立學校添新書因為他們圖書館裡沒有書籍還要開設很多的課程教人讀書寫字讓人們說出自己的故事。故事很重要多元的故事很重要。有些故事被用來醜化現實但故事也可以用來激勵強化人道精神，有些故事能奪去人們的尊嚴但有些故事能讓人重拾尊嚴。 美國作家愛麗絲渥克寫了關於她住南方的親戚搬到北方的故事她介紹一本書給他們內容有關他們所拋下的南方生活「他們圍坐著，看著書」「邊聽我說故事，並重拾了心中的樂園。」我想以這句話作結：當我們抗拒單一故事當我們了解，世上沒有任何地方只有單一個故事時我們就會重拾心中的樂園。謝謝(掌聲)
