Talk	en	zh-tw
chip_conley_measuring_what_makes_life_worthwhile	"I'm going to talk about the simple truth in leadership in the 21st century. In the 21st century, we need to actually look at — and what I'm actually going to encourage you to consider today — is to go back to our school days when we learned how to count. But I think it's time for us to think about what we count. Because what we actually count truly counts. Let me start by telling you a little story. This is Van Quach. She came to this country in 1986 from Vietnam. She changed her name to Vivian because she wanted to fit in here in America. Her first job was at an inner-city motel in San Francisco as a maid. I happened to buy that motel about three months after Vivian started working there. So Vivian and I have been working together for 23 years. With the youthful idealism of a 26-year-old, in 1987, I started my company and I called it Joie de Vivre, a very impractical name, because I actually was looking to create joy of life. And this first hotel that I bought, motel, was a pay-by-the-hour, no-tell motel in the inner-city of San Francisco. As I spent time with Vivian, I saw that she had sort of a joie de vivre in how she did her work. It made me question and curious: How could someone actually find joy in cleaning toilets for a living? So I spent time with Vivian, and I saw that she didn't find joy in cleaning toilets. Her job, her goal and her calling was not to become the world's greatest toilet scrubber. What counts for Vivian was the emotional connection she created with her fellow employees and our guests. And what gave her inspiration and meaning was the fact that she was taking care of people who were far away from home. Because Vivian knew what it was like to be far away from home. That very human lesson, more than 20 years ago, served me well during the last economic downturn we had. In the wake of the dotcom crash and 9/11, San Francisco Bay Area hotels went through the largest percentage revenue drop in the history of American hotels. We were the largest operator of hotels in the Bay Area, so we were particularly vulnerable. But also back then, remember we stopped eating French fries in this country. Well, not exactly, of course not. We started eating ""freedom fries,"" and we started boycotting anything that was French. Well, my name of my company, Joie de Vivre — so I started getting these letters from places like Alabama and Orange County saying to me that they were going to boycott my company because they thought we were a French company. And I'd write them back, and I'd say, ""What a minute. We're not French. We're an American company. We're based in San Francisco."" And I'd get a terse response: ""Oh, that's worse."" (Laughter) So one particular day when I was feeling a little depressed and not a lot of joie de vivre, I ended up in the local bookstore around the corner from our offices. And I initially ended up in the business section of the bookstore looking for a business solution. But given my befuddled state of mind, I ended up in the self-help section very quickly. That's where I got reacquainted with Abraham Maslow's ""hierarchy of needs."" I took one psychology class in college, and I learned about this guy, Abraham Maslow, as many of us are familiar with his hierarchy of needs. But as I sat there for four hours, the full afternoon, reading Maslow, I recognized something that is true of most leaders. One of the simplest facts in business is something that we often neglect, and that is that we're all human. Each of us, no matter what our role is in business, has some hierarchy of needs in the workplace. So as I started reading more Maslow, what I started to realize is that Maslow, later in his life, wanted to take this hierarchy for the individual and apply it to the collective, to organizations and specifically to business. But unfortunately, he died prematurely in 1970, and so he wasn't really able to live that dream completely. So I realized in that dotcom crash that my role in life was to channel Abe Maslow. And that's what I did a few years ago when I took that five-level hierarchy of needs pyramid and turned it into what I call the transformation pyramid, which is survival, success and transformation. It's not just fundamental in business, it's fundamental in life. And we started asking ourselves the questions about how we were actually addressing the higher needs, these transformational needs for our key employees in the company. These three levels of the hierarchy needs relate to the five levels of Maslow's hierarchy of needs. But as we started asking ourselves about how we were addressing the higher needs of our employees and our customers, I realized we had no metrics. We had nothing that actually could tell us whether we were actually getting it right. So we started asking ourselves: What kind of less obvious metrics could we use to actually evaluate our employees' sense of meaning, or our customers' sense of emotional connection with us? For example, we actually started asking our employees, do they understand the mission of our company, and do they feel like they believe in it, can they actually influence it, and do they feel that their work actually has an impact on it? We started asking our customers, did they feel an emotional connection with us, in one of seven different kinds of ways. Miraculously, as we asked these questions and started giving attention higher up the pyramid, what we found is we created more loyalty. Our customer loyalty skyrocketed. Our employee turnover dropped to one-third of the industry average, and during that five year dotcom bust, we tripled in size. As I went out and started spending time with other leaders out there and asking them how they were getting through that time, what they told me over and over again was that they just manage what they can measure. What we can measure is that tangible stuff at the bottom of the pyramid. They didn't even see the intangible stuff higher up the pyramid. So I started asking myself the question: How can we get leaders to start valuing the intangible? If we're taught as leaders to just manage what we can measure, and all we can measure is the tangible in life, we're missing a whole lot of things at the top of the pyramid. So I went out and studied a bunch of things, and I found a survey that showed that 94 percent of business leaders worldwide believe that the intangibles are important in their business, things like intellectual property, their corporate culture, their brand loyalty, and yet, only five percent of those same leaders actually had a means of measuring the intangibles in their business. So as leaders, we understand that intangibles are important, but we don't have a clue how to measure them. So here's another Einstein quote: ""Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted."" I hate to argue with Einstein, but if that which is most valuable in our life and our business actually can't be counted or valued, aren't we going to spend our lives just mired in measuring the mundane? It was that sort of heady question about what counts that led me to take my CEO hat off for a week and fly off to the Himalayan peaks. I flew off to a place that's been shrouded in mystery for centuries, a place some folks call Shangri-La. It's actually moved from the survival base of the pyramid to becoming a transformational role model for the world. I went to Bhutan. The teenage king of Bhutan was also a curious man, but this was back in 1972, when he ascended to the throne two days after his father passed away. At age 17, he started asking the kinds of questions that you'd expect of someone with a beginner's mind. On a trip through India, early in his reign as king, he was asked by an Indian journalist about the Bhutanese GDP, the size of the Bhutanese GDP. The king responded in a fashion that actually has transformed us four decades later. He said the following, he said: ""Why are we so obsessed and focused with gross domestic product? Why don't we care more about gross national happiness?"" Now, in essence, the king was asking us to consider an alternative definition of success, what has come to be known as GNH, or gross national happiness. Most world leaders didn't take notice, and those that did thought this was just ""Buddhist economics."" But the king was serious. This was a notable moment, because this was the first time a world leader in almost 200 years had suggested that intangible of happiness — that leader 200 years ago, Thomas Jefferson with the Declaration of Independence — 200 years later, this king was suggesting that intangible of happiness is something that we should measure, and it's something we should actually value as government officials. For the next three dozen years as king, this king actually started measuring and managing around happiness in Bhutan — including, just recently, taking his country from being an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy with no bloodshed, no coup. Bhutan, for those of you who don't know it, is the newest democracy in the world, just two years ago. So as I spent time with leaders in the GNH movement, I got to really understand what they're doing. And I got to spend some time with the prime minister. Over dinner, I asked him an impertinent question. I asked him, ""How can you create and measure something which evaporates — in other words, happiness?"" And he's a very wise man, and he said, ""Listen, Bhutan's goal is not to create happiness. We create the conditions for happiness to occur. In other words, we create a habitat of happiness."" Wow, that's interesting. He said that they have a science behind that art, and they've actually created four essential pillars, nine key indicators and 72 different metrics that help them to measure their GNH. One of those key indicators is: How do the Bhutanese feel about how they spend their time each day? It's a good question. How do you feel about how you spend your time each day? Time is one of the scarcest resources in the modern world. And yet, of course, that little intangible piece of data doesn't factor into our GDP calculations. As I spent my week up in the Himalayas, I started to imagine what I call an emotional equation. And it focuses on something I read long ago from a guy named Rabbi Hyman Schachtel. How many know him? Anybody? 1954, he wrote a book called ""The Real Enjoyment of Living,"" and he suggested that happiness is not about having what you want; instead, it's about wanting what you have. Or in other words, I think the Bhutanese believe happiness equals wanting what you have — imagine gratitude — divided by having what you want — gratification. The Bhutanese aren't on some aspirational treadmill, constantly focused on what they don't have. Their religion, their isolation, their deep respect for their culture and now the principles of their GNH movement all have fostered a sense of gratitude about what they do have. How many of us here, as TEDsters in the audience, spend more of our time in the bottom half of this equation, in the denominator? We are a bottom-heavy culture in more ways than one. (Laughter) The reality is, in Western countries, quite often we do focus on the pursuit of happiness as if happiness is something that we have to go out — an object that we're supposed to get, or maybe many objects. Actually, in fact, if you look in the dictionary, many dictionaries define pursuit as to ""chase with hostility."" Do we pursue happiness with hostility? Good question. But back to Bhutan. Bhutan's bordered on its north and south by 38 percent of the world's population. Could this little country, like a startup in a mature industry, be the spark plug that influences a 21st century of middle-class in China and India? Bhutan's created the ultimate export, a new global currency of well-being, and there are 40 countries around the world today that are studying their own GNH. You may have heard, this last fall Nicolas Sarkozy in France announcing the results of an 18-month study by two Nobel economists, focusing on happiness and wellness in France. Sarkozy suggested that world leaders should stop myopically focusing on GDP and consider a new index, what some French are calling a ""joie de vivre index."" I like it. Co-branding opportunities. Just three days ago, three days ago here at TED, we had a simulcast of David Cameron, potentially the next prime minister of the UK, quoting one of my favorite speeches of all-time, Robert Kennedy's poetic speech from 1968 when he suggested that we're myopically focused on the wrong thing and that GDP is a misplaced metric. So it suggests that the momentum is shifting. I've taken that Robert Kennedy quote, and I've turned it into a new balance sheet for just a moment here. This is a collection of things that Robert Kennedy said in that quote. GDP counts everything from air pollution to the destruction of our redwoods. But it doesn't count the health of our children or the integrity of our public officials. As you look at these two columns here, doesn't it make you feel like it's time for us to start figuring out a new way to count, a new way to imagine what's important to us in life? (Applause) Certainly Robert Kennedy suggested at the end of the speech exactly that. He said GDP ""measures everything in short, except that which makes life worthwhile."" Wow. So how do we do that? Let me say one thing we can just start doing ten years from now, at least in this country. Why in the heck in America are we doing a census in 2010? We're spending 10 billion dollars on the census. We're asking 10 simple questions — it is simplicity. But all of those questions are tangible. They're about demographics. They're about where you live, how many people you live with, and whether you own your home or not. That's about it. We're not asking meaningful metrics. We're not asking important questions. We're not asking anything that's intangible. Abe Maslow said long ago something you've heard before, but you didn't realize it was him. He said, ""If the only tool you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail."" We've been fooled by our tool. Excuse that expression. (Laughter) We've been fooled by our tool. GDP has been our hammer. And our nail has been a 19th- and 20th-century industrial-era model of success. And yet, 64 percent of the world's GDP today is in that intangible industry we call service, the service industry, the industry I'm in. And only 36 percent is in the tangible industries of manufacturing and agriculture. So maybe it's time that we get a bigger toolbox, right? Maybe it's time we get a toolbox that doesn't just count what's easily counted, the tangible in life, but actually counts what we most value, the things that are intangible. I guess I'm sort of a curious CEO. I was also a curious economics major as an undergrad. I learned that economists measure everything in tangible units of production and consumption as if each of those tangible units is exactly the same. They aren't the same. In fact, as leaders, what we need to learn is that we can influence the quality of that unit of production by creating the conditions for our employees to live their calling. In Vivian's case, her unit of production isn't the tangible hours she works, it's the intangible difference she makes during that one hour of work. This is Dave Arringdale who's actually been a longtime guest at Vivian's motel. He stayed there a hundred times in the last 20 years, and he's loyal to the property because of the relationship that Vivian and her fellow employees have created with him. They've created a habitat of happiness for Dave. He tells me that he can always count on Vivian and the staff there to make him feel at home. Why is it that business leaders and investors quite often don't see the connection between creating the intangible of employee happiness with creating the tangible of financial profits in their business? We don't have to choose between inspired employees and sizable profits, we can have both. In fact, inspired employees quite often help make sizable profits, right? So what the world needs now, in my opinion, is business leaders and political leaders who know what to count. We count numbers. We count on people. What really counts is when we actually use our numbers to truly take into account our people. I learned that from a maid in a motel and a king of a country. What can you start counting today? What one thing can you start counting today that actually would be meaningful in your life, whether it's your work life or your business life? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我要說些21世紀領導的簡單的小道理現在是21世紀，我們應該要看的東西和我今天鼓勵大家去想想的事情要回溯到我們上學的時候回溯到我們學算數的時候我認為該想想我們到底數了些什麼因為我們真正在意的事才算數 我先從小故事說起這是范姱嬬1986年的時候從越南移民到這把名字改成薇薇安希望能夠融入這裡的生活她的第一份工作是在舊金山市中心的汽車旅館當清潔人員事實上，她工作三個月後我恰巧買了那間旅館所以薇薇安跟我共事了23年 那時候是1987年我26歲，心理充滿了理想我開始經營飯店，稱為「人生之樂」這是個非常不切實際的名字因為我想創造生活的快樂這就是我第一個收購的旅館，是以時計費，供人「休息」的汽車旅館在舊金山的市區内。我跟薇薇安一起工作的時候我發現她工作的方式有「人生之樂」的特質。這讓我既疑惑又好奇怎麼可能有人會喜歡以掃廁維生所以我就觀察薇薇安，發現她並非以掃廁所為樂她的目標、職志並不是成為世界第一的廁所清潔工她在意的是情感的聯繫是同事、顧客、和自己間的關係。鼓舞並讓她覺得有意義的是她的工作，而這份工作其實是照顧異鄉遊子。因為薇薇安深知離鄉背井的感受。 這二十幾年前人性溫暖的例子幫助我度過上一個經濟衰退。網路股泡沫化以及911事件開始的時候讓舊金山的灣區酒店的收入大幅減少是美國史上的新低。當時我們是灣區最大的業者所以受到的衝擊非常大。也同樣是那時候美國國内抵制吃薯條其實也不盡然，應該說，我們不吃「法式薯條」開始吃「自由薯條」抵制全部跟法國有關的東西我公司的名字「人生之樂」就是法文所以我就陸續收到從阿拉巴馬和橘郡等地來的信說要抵制我的公司因為他們認為我們是法國公司然後我就回信說我們不是法商！我們是在舊金山的美國公司！接著我收到了一封回信說：「噢！那更糟！」 （笑聲） 所以有一天我覺得有點鬱悶，不太快樂我就到辦公室附近的書店逛逛一開始我只在商業叢書區找尋解決方法但是我的頭腦真是太混亂了所以我很快就逛到勵志叢書區就在那，我再讀了亞伯拉罕·馬斯洛的需求層次理論。我大學時候修了門心理學學到了亞伯拉罕·馬斯洛很多人都熟悉他的需求層次理論我在那坐了四個小時整個下午都在讀馬斯洛的書使我體認到了一些大部分領袖都具備共同的特質。在企業内最簡單清楚的事實之一卻也是我們常忽略的那就是：「我們都是人。」不管我們在事業上的角色為何在職場上都有自己的需求層次。 接著我讀了更多馬斯洛的書我漸漸發現其實馬斯洛稍後想把個人的需求層次理論套用到群體套用到組織，特別是商業組織但不幸的是馬斯洛英在1970年英年早逝所以他並沒能完全實現那夢想。我發覺網路股泡沫化的時候我人生的階段任務就是跟馬斯洛對話。這也是幾年前我所做的把需求層次理論的五層金字塔變成我所謂的「轉型金字塔」包括生存、成功、轉型這金字塔不只是事業的基石，更是人生的基石。我們開始問自己要如何滿足公司内主要員工高階的需求也就是轉型需求這三層的需求層次其實跟馬斯洛的五階層需求層次有關 可是當我們要著手衡量員工和顧客的高階需求的時候我才發現，我們沒有衡量標準。不知道怎樣衡量才是對的。所以我們反問自己還有什麼我們看不見的變數可以用來實際地評估員工的感覺或是顧客跟我們的情感聯係度舉例來說，我們問員工說你們了解我們公司的服務宗旨嗎？你們認同我們的服務宗旨嗎？你們能為公司帶來任何改變嗎？你們真的覺得自己的工作對公司有影響嗎？我們也問顧客是否覺得和我們有七種程度不同的情感的聯係。神奇的是，藉由問這些問題還有漸漸注重金字塔頂端的需求後我們竟然讓顧客的忠誠度提高了。顧客對我們的忠誠度疾速攀升員工的離職律也降低到產業平均的三分之一。網路股泡沫化為期五年那五年裡，我們的營業規模變為三倍。 之後我跟其他領導者聊天問他們如何撐過那段時期我聼到的都是他們只管理有形的看得到的他們能看到的就是金字塔底端有形的資產大家都沒看倒金字塔上層無形的資產。所以我開始問自己要如何讓大家重視無形的資產？如果大家跟企業家一樣，只管理能夠量化的也就是人生中有形的資產我們就會失去金字塔頂端的所有東西。 所以我繼續作了一些研究發現一則調查顯示百分之九十四的企業領導者相信對於自己的企業來說，無形資產是很重要的包括智慧財產企業文化、品牌忠誠度。但是其中只有百分之五的企業主真的有一套標準來衡量事業上無形的資產。跟企業主一樣，我們也知道無形資產很重要但是壓根不知道怎麼衡量無形資產。愛因斯坦說不是所有算的出來的東西都有意義有意義的事情不一定算的出來。我不想跟愛因斯坦爭論但最有價值的東西無論是人生中還是事業上都算不清，也估不得難道要任由生命陷在對世俗東西的計算嗎？ 因爲對這量化的問題百思不解讓我拋掉執行長的頭銜一個禮拜飛到喜馬拉雅山區這地方已經藏在神祕的面紗後好幾世紀了就是人們口中香格里拉。香格里拉就是從金字塔底部的生存層轉型成功的例子值得借鏡。我去了不丹不丹的國王還是少年，頗具好奇心在1972年他的父親去世兩天後不丹國王便登基那時國王年僅17歲，他開始思考一些問題一些聼起來像初學者的問題。 在他剛開始統治不丹的時候有一次去印度拜訪有個記者問國王不丹的國内生産毛額不丹的國内生産毛額有多少國王的那時的囘答影響了四十年後的我們。國王說，我們為什麼那麼執意、注重國内生産毛額我們為什麼不多注意，國内幸福毛額事實上，國王要我們多想想成功另外的定義也就是後來的GNH，或稱為國内幸福毛額。大多數的國家領導者都不注重GNH或者認為這只是「佛教經濟學」但國王卻很認真這是重要的一刻因為這是第一次在近兩百年來有領導人物提出幸福的無形價值。兩百年前也有領導者提過那人就是提出「獨立宣言」的湯瑪斯傑弗遜兩百年後不丹王提出幸福的無形價值正是我們該去衡量的而且我們是應該要珍視的身為政府官員，理應如此。 在他執政的三十六年中確實去衡量且提昇不丹的幸福指數。不丹國王最近還把自己的國家從絕對君主制變成君主立憲制改革期間沒有傷亡，也沒有政變對那些不太了解不丹的人來說不丹是世上最年輕的民主國家，現在才兩歲。 我跟其他領導者參加GNH運動的時候才真正了解他們在做什麼。我跟首相處了一段時間晚宴時，問了首相一個很直接的問題我問首相「你們怎麼能創造、衡量摸不到的東西也就是『幸福』？」首相非常有智慧，跟我說我告訴你呀，不丹並不是要創造幸福我們創造的是環境，讓幸福來臨的環境也就是說，我們為幸福建造家園哇！那可真有趣！首相又說這藝術的背後，有著科學根據。我們創造了四大項目九個關鍵指標七十二個單位來計算國民幸福毛額其實，其中一種關鍵指標就是不丹人覺得自己每天怎麼花時間的情況為何這問題問的真好你對自己每天花時間的情況覺得滿意嗎？時間這資源對現代來說是極其珍貴的當然這少量的無形資料並不記入GDP的算式裡 在喜瑪拉雅山上的那七天我開始構思我所謂的情緒方程式。這方程式著重在很久以前讀的東西上就是史查鐵的著作有人知道這個人嗎？誰知道？史查鐵再1954年時寫了「人生真趣」書中提到幸福並不是擁有你想要的東西而是珍惜你所有的。換句話說，我覺得不丹人認為幸福就是珍惜所有想一下，“感激”除以欲望等於滿足不丹人不是在跑步機上不斷追尋自己沒有的。不丹人的信仰、孤立的情勢對本土文化的崇高敬意還有現在國内幸福毛額的原則都讓不丹人感激握在手中的東西。我們在座有多少位TED會員把時間花在方程式的下半部，也就是分母上？我們的文化頭輕腳重很多方面都是如此 笑聲 其實，西方國家的人常常把追求幸福掛在嘴邊好像幸福是在外頭要去追求的東西或很多的東西。其實，你查查字典很多字典對「追求」的定義是「帶著惡意追逐」我們會帶著惡意追逐幸福嗎好問題！回到不丹 不丹的北方和南方的鄰國（中國和印度）住著全世界百分之三十八的人口。這個小國在發展完全的產業裡，像新人般真的能夠像火星塞一樣影響二十一世紀中國和印度的中產階級嗎？不丹真的出口了一樣獨特的東西是新的全球幸福指數。目前約四十個國家在研究自己的國民幸福毛額。今年秋天你可能聽過法國總統薩柯齊宣布為期一年半的研究結果該研究由兩位諾貝爾經濟學家主導著重在法國人的幸福及健康。薩柯齊認為國家領導者不應該一直強調國内生産毛額應該開始考量新的指數就是某些法國人口中的「人生之樂指數」我喜歡這說法這是個品牌合作的機會。 三天前，就在TED這裡有卡麥隆的聯播卡麥隆是英國下任總理候選人他引用了我最愛的演講之一勞伯甘迺迪在1968年的演講中提到我們太過短視並注重在錯誤的事上GDP就是其一我們應該要轉移重心。 我把勞伯甘乃迪的演講内容整理成這個資產負債表。GDP其實包括了很多項目甘迺迪說從空氣污染到濫砍紅杉都在GDP的範圍内。但是不包括小孩子的健康還有官員是否清廉。看看這兩個欄位難道你不覺得這是該想出新的算法的時候了嗎？想個新的方法來衡量人生中，重要的是什麼？ （掌聲） 勞伯甘迺迪在演講尾聲提到國内生産毛額概括了大部分的東西但是不包括讓人不虛此生的東西哇！所以我們要怎麼做呢？我就說說大家可以開始做的事吧至少在這國家，從現在算起的十年。美國到底為什麼要進行2010年人口普查這普查耗資100億元問了十個真的很簡單的問題但這十個問題都是具體的。都是關於人口的統計大概是住哪、跟多少人住有沒有自己的房子大概就是這些我們不問有意義的指標。我們不問重要的問題。我們不過問無形的東西。 馬斯洛很久以前說過你們聽過，但不知道這是馬斯洛說的「如果你只有鎚子」「其他東西看起來就會像釘子」大家都被工具騙了原諒我這麽說。（笑聲）大家都被工具擺了一道國内生産毛額是我們的鎚子釘子就是十九、二十世紀工業的鼎盛時期的成功。但是目前百分之六十四的全球GDP是無形產業，也就是服務是我身處的服務業。有形產業只佔了百分之三十六如製造業還有農業所以是該找大一點的計算工具的時候了。另外找個計算工具算的不只是顯而易見的有形資產而是計算我們真正寶貴的東西就是無形資產。 我想我是個好奇的執行長我大學的時候也很好奇，主修經濟我知道經濟學家測量所有的東西以生產和消費的有形單位測量好像每個有形的測量單位都完全一樣。其實不然。事實上，我們身為領導者，要學的是我們真的能改變生產單位的品質我們可以創造環境讓員工實踐使命。其實，以薇薇安來說薇薇安的生產單位並不是有形的工作時數而是創造的無形差別工作的那一小時創造的差別。 這是戴夫·阿淩戴爾是我們旅館的忠實顧客在我們那住了上百次在過去的二十年裏。戴夫對這旅館很忠心因為薇薇安跟同事跟他建立起了感情薇薇安和同事為戴夫創造了幸福的棲地。戴夫跟我說薇薇安和其他員工永遠值得信任讓人賓至如歸。為什麼商業領導者和投資人常常都忽略創造員工的快樂這個無形的資產和資金收益這個有形的資產之間的關連士氣高昂的員工和龐大的獲利不是單一的選項而是可以兼顧的事實上，士氣高昂的員工通常都可以讓公司多賺點錢 所以世界現在需要的在我看來是商業領導者和政治領導者都知道怎麼衡量幸福。我們算數我們依賴員工真正重要的是我們計算時要把“人”也算進考量裏。旅館的清潔婦教了我這個道理一國之君也這樣教我從今天起你可以衡量什麼？不管在工作或商業上，計算哪幾樣東西，可以使你的生活變得有意義？ 非常感謝各位 （掌聲）
