Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_jordan_pictures_some_shocking_stats	"My work is about the behaviors that we all engage in unconsciously, on a collective level. And what I mean by that, it's the behaviors that we're in denial about, and the ones that operate below the surface of our daily awareness. And as individuals, we all do these things, all the time, everyday. It's like when you're mean to your wife because you're mad at somebody else. Or when you drink a little too much at a party, just out of anxiety. Or when you overeat because your feelings are hurt, or whatever. And when we do these kind of things, when 300 million people do unconscious behaviors, then it can add up to a catastrophic consequence that nobody wants, and no one intended. And that's what I look at with my photographic work. This is an image I just recently completed, that is — when you stand back at a distance, it looks like some kind of neo-Gothic, cartoon image of a factory spewing out pollution. And as you get a little bit closer, it starts looking like lots of pipes, like maybe a chemical plant, or a refinery, or maybe a hellish freeway interchange. And as you get all the way up close, you realize that it's actually made of lots and lots of plastic cups. And in fact, this is one million plastic cups, which is the number of plastic cups that are used on airline flights in the United States every six hours. We use four million cups a day on airline flights, and virtually none of them are reused or recycled. They just don't do that in that industry. Now, that number is dwarfed by the number of paper cups we use every day, and that is 40 million cups a day for hot beverages, most of which is coffee. I couldn't fit 40 million cups on a canvas, but I was able to put 410,000. That's what 410,000 cups looks like. That's 15 minutes of our cup consumption. And if you could actually stack up that many cups in real life, that's the size it would be. And there's an hour's worth of our cups. And there's a day's worth of our cups. You can still see the little people way down there. That's as high as a 42-story building, and I put the Statue of Liberty in there as a scale reference. Speaking of justice, there's another phenomenon going on in our culture that I find deeply troubling, and that is that America, right now, has the largest percentage of its population in prison of any country on Earth. One out of four people, one out of four humans in prison are Americans, imprisoned in our country. And I wanted to show the number. The number is 2.3 million Americans were incarcerated in 2005. And that's gone up since then, but we don't have the numbers yet. So, I wanted to show 2.3 million prison uniforms, and in the actual print of this piece, each uniform is the size of a nickel on its edge. They're tiny. They're barely visible as a piece of material, and to show 2.3 million of them required a canvas that was larger than any printer in the world would print. And so I had to divide it up into multiple panels that are 10 feet tall by 25 feet wide. This is that piece installed in a gallery in New York — those are my parents looking at the piece. (Laughter) Every time I look at this piece, I always wonder if my mom's whispering to my dad, ""He finally folded his laundry."" (Laughter) I want to show you some pieces now that are about addiction. And this particular one is about cigarette addiction. I wanted to make a piece that shows the actual number of Americans who die from cigarette smoking. More than 400,000 people die in the United States every year from smoking cigarettes. And so, this piece is made up of lots and lots of boxes of cigarettes. And, as you slowly step back, you see that it's a painting by Van Gogh, called ""Skull with Cigarette."" It's a strange thing to think about, that on 9/11, when that tragedy happened, 3,000 Americans died. And do you remember the response? It reverberated around the world, and will continue to reverberate through time. It will be something that we talk about in 100 years. And yet on that same day, 1,100 Americans died from smoking. And the day after that, another 1,100 Americans died from smoking. And every single day since then, 1,100 Americans have died. And today, 1,100 Americans are dying from cigarette smoking. And we aren't talking about it — we dismiss it. The tobacco lobby, it's too strong. We just dismiss it out of our consciousness. And knowing what we know about the destructive power of cigarettes, we continue to allow our children, our sons and daughters, to be in the presence of the influences that start them smoking. And this is what the next piece is about. This is just lots and lots of cigarettes: 65,000 cigarettes, which is equal to the number of teenagers who will start smoking this month, and every month in the U.S. More than 700,000 children in the United States aged 18 and under begin smoking every year. One more strange epidemic in the United States that I want to acquaint you with is this phenomenon of abuse and misuse of prescription drugs. This is an image I've made out of lots and lots of Vicodin. Well, actually, I only had one Vicodin that I scanned lots and lots of times. (Laughter) And so, as you stand back, you see 213,000 Vicodin pills, which is the number of hospital emergency room visits yearly in the United States, attributable to abuse and misuse of prescription painkillers and anti-anxiety medications. One-third of all drug overdoses in the U.S. — and that includes cocaine, heroin, alcohol, everything — one-third of drug overdoses are prescription medications. A strange phenomenon. This is a piece that I just recently completed about another tragic phenomenon. And that is the phenomenon, this growing obsession we have with breast augmentation surgery. 384,000 women, American women, last year went in for elective breast augmentation surgery. It's rapidly becoming the most popular high school graduation gift, given to young girls who are about to go off to college. So, I made this image out of Barbie dolls, and so, as you stand back you see this kind of floral pattern, and as you get all the way back, you see 32,000 Barbie dolls, which represents the number of breast augmentation surgeries that are performed in the U.S. each month. The vast majority of those are on women under the age of 21. And strangely enough, the only plastic surgery that is more popular than breast augmentation is liposuction, and most of that is being done by men. Now, I want to emphasize that these are just examples. I'm not holding these out as being the biggest issues. They're just examples. And the reason that I do this, it's because I have this fear that we aren't feeling enough as a culture right now. There's this kind of anesthesia in America at the moment. We've lost our sense of outrage, our anger and our grief about what's going on in our culture right now, what's going on in our country, the atrocities that are being committed in our names around the world. They've gone missing; these feelings have gone missing. Our cultural joy, our national joy is nowhere to be seen. And one of the causes of this, I think, is that as each of us attempts to build this new kind of worldview, this holoptical worldview, this holographic image that we're all trying to create in our mind of the interconnection of things: the environmental footprints 1,000 miles away of the things that we buy; the social consequences 10,000 miles away of the daily decisions that we make as consumers. As we try to build this view, and try to educate ourselves about the enormity of our culture, the information that we have to work with is these gigantic numbers: numbers in the millions, in the hundreds of millions, in the billions and now in the trillions. Bush's new budget is in the trillions, and these are numbers that our brain just doesn't have the ability to comprehend. We can't make meaning out of these enormous statistics. And so that's what I'm trying to do with my work, is to take these numbers, these statistics from the raw language of data, and to translate them into a more universal visual language, that can be felt. Because my belief is, if we can feel these issues, if we can feel these things more deeply, then they'll matter to us more than they do now. And if we can find that, then we'll be able to find, within each one of us, what it is that we need to find to face the big question, which is: how do we change? That, to me, is the big question that we face as a people right now: how do we change? How do we change as a culture, and how do we each individually take responsibility for the one piece of the solution that we are in charge of, and that is our own behavior? My belief is that you don't have to make yourself bad to look at these issues. I'm not pointing the finger at America in a blaming way. I'm simply saying, this is who we are right now. And if there are things that we see that we don't like about our culture, then we have a choice. The degree of integrity that each of us can bring to the surface, to bring to this question, the depth of character that we can summon, as we show up for the question of how do we change — it's already defining us as individuals and as a nation, and it will continue to do that, on into the future. And it will profoundly affect the well-being, the quality of life of the billions of people who are going to inherit the results of our decisions. I'm not speaking abstractly about this, I'm speaking — this is who we are in this room, right now, in this moment. Thank you and good afternoon. (Applause)"	我的作品主要是以宏觀的角度，關注人們在不知不覺中所作出的行為，我所指的是那些我們不願承認的行為，和那些我們每天無意當中所做的行為。作為獨立的個人，我們大家每天都在做這些事，隨時都在做。就像你對你的妻子發脾氣，其實是因為你在對其他人生氣。或當你在派對中喝多了，原因是你在焦慮。或是你因為感情受到傷害而暴飲暴食，諸如此類。當我們做這樣的事情時，而且有3億人都這樣在無意當中進行這般行為時，很有可能加乘為災難性的後果，沒有人願意接受，也沒有人故意造成這些後果。而這正是我的攝影作品所關注的。 這是一幅我最近剛剛完成的圖像，當你站遠些，看起來像一種新歌德式的漫畫圖像，像一座排放污染物的工廠。當你靠近一點看，開始看起來像許多管路，好像是一所化學工廠，或是煉油廠，也可能是讓人頭疼的高速公路交流道。而當你貼近作品來看，你會發現它實際上是由很多很多的塑膠杯所構成。而事實上，這裡有一百萬個塑膠杯，這個數字是美國境內飛行的航班上，每六個小時所消耗的塑膠杯數量。我們在飛機上，每天就使用了四百萬個塑膠杯，完全沒有回收或再利用；這個行業就是不做這樣的事。 但是這還只是個小數目，看看我們每天所使用的紙杯數量，我們每天使用四千萬個紙杯來盛裝熱飲，大多是咖啡。我沒辦法將四千萬個紙杯放進一幅畫框裡，我只能放進41萬個紙杯。41萬個紙杯看起來就是這個樣子。我們每15分鐘消耗這麼多的紙杯。假若在現實生活中可以疊起那麼多的紙杯子，它的規模會是這個樣子。這是我們每小時所消耗的紙杯數量。這是一天的量。你仍然可以看到小小的人在底下那裡。這相當於42層樓高，我把自由女神像放進來作為參考比例。 談到正義，在我們的文化中存在著另一種現象，令人深感不安，那就是美國目前囚犯的比例比世界上其他國家都高。全球每四個監獄囚犯，就有一個是美國人，被監禁在美國本土的監獄裡。我想表現這個數目。2005年，美國有230萬名囚犯被監禁。從此至今這數字仍在增加，但我們現在還沒有實際的數字。所以我想向大家展示230萬件囚服，這幅作品印出來時，每件囚服只有一個五分美元硬幣的厚度。非常的小，只能勉強看出它是一件物品，倘若要將230萬件囚服全放進同一張圖片，世界上找不到這麼大的印表機可以將它印出來。因此，我不得不把它分割成幾個版面，每件長度為10英尺(3公尺)高、25英尺(7.5公尺)寬。這件作品在紐約一家畫廊展出，正在看著這一幅作品的是我的父母。（笑聲）每當我看見這張照片，我總懷疑我媽媽在悄悄地對爸爸說：「他總算會摺衣服了。」（笑聲） 現在我想給各位看一些有關成癮症的作品。這一幅是針對菸癮的作品。我想製作一幅作品可以代表美國人因為吸菸而死亡的實際數字。美國每年有超過40萬人死亡,因為吸菸而死亡。所以這件作品是由很多的香菸盒所構成.而且,當你慢慢地向後退,您將看到一幅由梵谷所畫的“骷髏與香菸”。我有一個奇怪的想法,在9月11日,當悲劇發生時,有3千名美國人死亡,你還記得的當時的反應嗎？它在世界各地引起迴響，隨著時間過去，仍將繼續產生迴響，這將是值得我們談論100年的話題。然而,就在同一天,有1千1百名美國人因吸菸而死亡，而一天之後,另外1千1百名美國人也因吸菸而死亡，自那時起,每天都有1千1百名美國人因吸菸而死亡，而今天,仍有1千1百名美國人因吸菸而死亡，而我們竟然不談論它,不屑一提。菸草集團，實在太強大。我們只是不自覺地忽略這件事，我們明知香菸的破壞性，但是我們繼續讓孩子們,我們的兒子和女兒,在這影響存在的情況下開始吸菸，而這就是下一幅圖所要表現的。 這只是很多很多的香菸:6萬5千支香菸,這數字相當於每個月美國青少年開始吸菸的人數。在美國，每年都有超過70萬名未滿18歲的兒童開始吸菸。 美國還有更奇怪的流行病，我希望你們更了解這種現象,也就是濫用和誤用藥物。這是用許多Vicodin藥丸(止痛藥)構成的圖片-其實我只有一夥Vicodin藥丸，我掃描了很多很多次。（笑聲）往後退你就會看到21萬3千顆Vicodin藥丸,這相當於美國每年所有醫院急診室裡，因為濫用、誤用處方止痛藥和抗焦慮藥物，所收治的病人總數。而在美國,用藥過量的人裡—包括古柯鹼、海洛因、酒精、各式各樣的藥—有三分之一是服用過量的醫院處方藥。這是很奇怪的現象。 這一幅是我最近完成的作品，這是關於另一個悲慘的現象，而這種現象，正是日益增長而困擾我們的隆乳手術。美國去年有38萬4千名婦女，選擇進行隆乳手術，它迅速成為最流行的高中畢業禮物,送給即將上大學的年輕女孩。因此,我以芭比娃娃作出了這個作品,當你站遠一點，就會看到一種花紋,而當你一路走遠,你會看到3萬2千個芭比娃娃,這個數字是美國每個月所進行的隆乳手術的數字。絕大多數婦女在未滿21歲時動手術，而且最奇怪的是,在整形外科裡，唯一比隆乳手術還要流行的，竟是抽脂手術，而且大多數的醫生都是男性。 現在,我想強調一點,這些都只是例子。我不認為這些是最大的問題，他們僅僅是幾個例子而已。而我之所以這樣做,是因為我擔心大家還沒有體認到這一股風氣，因為美國現正處於麻木的時刻，現在文化上所產生的轉變、國家裡發生的事情，都無法激起我們的憤慨、憤怒和悲痛，儘管這些暴行已經使我們的聲譽受損，但情緒都不見了，感情也都消失了。我們對於文化的喜悅、國家的喜悅,消失得無影無踪。我認為其中一個原因,是因為我們每個人都試圖在自己的內心裡，為各種事物間所存在的關聯性，建立起新型的、涵蓋全球的世界觀、或完整的圖像。像是我們關心我們所買的東西，對1千英哩以外的環境產生了什麼影響；像是我們身為消費者，每天所做的消費決定，又對1千英里以外的社會造成了什麼影響。 當我們嘗試建立這種觀點,並嘗試教育自己去了解我們的文化有多腐化,我們必須消化的資訊是天文數字:動輒上百萬、上億、數十億，現在則以兆來計算。布希的新預算是以兆來計算，而這些數字是我們的大腦無力去理解的，在這些巨大的統計數字中，我們找不到任何意義，所以我想嘗試用我的作品,把這些數字、這些統計數據，從原始的資料型態，轉化為一般人可以感受到的視覺語言。因為我的信念是,如果我們能感受到這些問題,如果我們可以更深刻地感受到這些東西,我們就會比現在更重視這些問題。如果我們能夠瞭解這一點，那麼每一個人都會認真地尋找這類嚴重問題的解決之道，那就是:我們該如何改變?對我來說，這是一個我們現在所面臨的大問題:我們該如何去改變?我們該如何改變文化？我們每一個人該怎麼負起自己範圍內的責任，找出解決之道？這得靠我們自己的行為來決定。 我的信念是,你不必讓自己不愉快地去看待這些問題，我也不是在指責美國政府，我只是簡單地呈現出我們現在的樣貌。如果我們不喜歡我們文化裡的某些東西，那麼我們有一個選擇，當我們面對問題，質疑自己該如何改變時，我們所展現出來的正直勇氣，就決定了我們所能改變的深度。這是在我們成為人民、組成國家時就決定的了，未來還會繼續延續下去。它將深刻地影響未來即將要繼承我們決策的數十億人的社會福祉，以及生活品質。我不是在說抽象的事情，我所說的是在座每一個人的現狀，就是現在這一刻的樣貌。 謝謝你，午安。（掌聲）
