Talk	en	zh-tw
christopher_bell_bring_on_the_female_superheroes	"I spend most of my time thinking about little girls, which is kind of a weird thing for a grown man in our society to say. But I do. I spend most of my time thinking about little girls, and I think it's primarily because I have one. This one's mine, and I think you would really like her. She is smart and funny and kind to people and a good friend. But when I talk about my daughter, the word I find myself saying most is ""athlete."" My kid's athletic. She is strong and fast and has great balance and good body control. She is a three-time, back-to-back-to-back state champion in Shaolin Kempo. At nine years old, she is already halfway to a black belt. My daughter is athletic. Now, when a man who is six feet two and 265 pounds stands in front of you and says his daughter is athletic, you might think that's a reflection of him. It is not. (Laughter) My wife in high school was a two-time all-state soccer player and a two-time all-state volleyball player, and I played ""Dungeons and Dragons."" And that is why, although my daughter is an athlete, she's also a huge nerd, which I love. She walks around our house in a cloak of flames that she made herself. She sits on the Iron Throne — (Laughter) even though she has never seen ""Game of Thrones,"" primarily because we are not the worst parents who ever lived. But she knows there's someone called the Mother of Dragons, and she calls herself that and she loves it. She's a huge comic book fan. Right now, her favorite character is Groot. She loves Groot. She adores The Incredible Hulk. But my daughter really at heart, her thing is Star Wars. My kid is a Jedi. Although some days she's also a Sith, which is a choice that I can respect. (Laughter) But here's the question that I have to ask. Why is it that when my daughter dresses up, whether it's Groot or The Incredible Hulk, whether it's Obi-Wan Kenobi or Darth Maul, why is every character she dresses up as a boy? And where are all the female superheroes? And that is not actually the question, because there's plenty of female superheroes. My question really is, where is all the female superhero stuff? Where are the costumes? Where are the toys? Because every day when my daughter plays when she dresses up, she's learning stuff through a process that, in my own line of work, as a professor of media studies, we refer to as public pedagogy. That is, it is how societies are taught ideologies. It's how you learned what it meant to be a man or a woman, what it meant to behave yourself in public, what it meant to be a patriot and have good manners. It's all the constituent social relations that make us up as a people. It's, in short, how we learn what we know about other people and about the world. But we live in a 100-percent media-saturated society. What that means is that every single aspect of your human existence outside of your basic bodily functions is in some way touched by media. From the car that you drive to the food that you eat to the clothes that you wear to the way you construct your relationships to the very language you use to formulate thought — all of that is in some way mediated. So the answer in our society to how do we learn what we know about other people and about the world is largely through media. Well, there's a wrinkle in that, in that our society, media don't simply exist as information distribution technologies and devices. They also exist as corporate entities. And when the distribution of information is tied to financial gain, there's a problem. How big of a problem? Well think about this: in 1983, 90 percent of American media were owned by 50 companies. In any market, 50 companies doing something is a lot of companies. It's a lot of different worldviews. In 2015, that number has shrunk to six, six companies. They are NBCUniversal Comcast, AOL Time Warner, the Walt Disney Company, News Corp, Viacom and the CBS Corporation. These six companies produce nine out of every 10 movies you watch, nine out of every 10 television shows, nine out of every 10 songs, nine out of every 10 books. So my question to you is, if six companies control 90 percent of American media, how much influence do you think they have over what you're allowed to see every day? Because in media studies, we spend a lot of time saying that media can't tell us what to think, and they can't; they're terrible at that. But that's not their job. Media don't tell us what to think. Media tell us what to think about. They control the conversation, and in controlling the conversation, they don't have to get you to think what they want you to think. They'll just get you thinking about the things they want you to think about, and more importantly, not thinking about things they don't want you to think about. They control the conversation. How does this work in practice? Let's just take one of those companies. We'll do an easy one. Let's talk about the Walt Disney Company for a second. The reason why I always pick the Walt Disney Company is this. Is there a single person in this room who has never seen a Disney movie? Look around. Exactly. I picked Disney because they have what we call 100 percent penetration in our society. Every single person has been exposed to Disney, so it's an easy one for me to use. Since 1937, Disney has made most of its money selling princesses to girls. It's made a huge chunk of its money. Unless, of course, the princess your daughter is interested in, as my daughter is, is this one. See, in 2012, Disney purchased LucasFilm for the sum of four billion dollars, and immediately they flooded the Disney stores with Han Solo and Obi-Wan Kenobi, with Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker and Yoda and not Princess Leia. Why? Because this princess messes up the public pedagogy for these princesses. So Disney did not put Princess Leia merchandise in the store, and when people went to Disney and said, ""Hey, where's all the Princess Leia stuff?"" Disney said, ""We have no intention of putting Princess Leia merchandise in the store."" And fans were angry and they took to Twitter with the hashtag #WeWantLeia. And Disney said, ""Wait, that's not what we meant. What we meant was, we don't have any Princess Leia merchandise yet, but we will."" And that was in 2012, and it is 2015, and if you go to the Disney Store, as I recently have, and look for Princess Leia merchandise, do you know how many Princess Leia items there are in the Disney Store? Zero, because Disney has no intention of putting Princess Leia in the store. And we shouldn't be surprised because we found out that was their policy when they bought Marvel in 2009 for the sum of 4.5 billion dollars. Because when you make a lot of money selling princesses to girls, you also kind of want to make money from boys. And so what better to sell boys than superheroes? So now Disney had access to Captain America and to Thor, The Incredible Hulk, and they had access even to a group of superheroes no one had ever even heard of. That's how good Marvel was at selling superheroes. Last year, they released a film called ""Guardians of the Galaxy."" It's a film that absolutely should not work. Nobody knew who they were except for comic book nerds like me. One of the characters is a talking tree. One of the characters is an anthropomorphic raccoon. It should not work. And they made a killing off of ""Guardians of the Galaxy."" This character here in the middle, her name is Gamora. She's played by Zoe Saldana, and she is strong and smart and fast and fights like a ninja, and she is played by a beautiful black woman, and my daughter fell in love with her. So like any good nerd dad, I went to buy my daughter Gamora stuff, and when I got to the store, I learned a very interesting thing. If I wanted to buy her a Gamora backpack, well, Gamora's not on it. They probably should have marketed this as ""some"" of the Guardians of the Galaxy. (Laughter) And if I wanted to buy her a lunchbox, she wasn't on it, and if I wanted to buy her a t-shirt, she wasn't on it. And as a matter of fact, if I went to the store, as I did, and looked at the display, you would find a small picture of Gamora right here, but if you look at any of the actual merchandise on that shelf, Gamora is not on any of it. Now, I could have taken to Twitter with the hashtag #WheresGamora, like millions of fans did across the world, but the truth was I wasn't even really that surprised, because I was there when Disney had released ""The Avengers."" And just this year, we got a new Avengers movie, the ""Age of Ultron,"" and we were very excited, because there was not one but two female superheroes, Scarlet Witch and Black Widow. And we were very excited. But here's the real thing about this. Even though Scarlett Johansson, who is one of the most popular actresses in America, plays Black Widow, and Black Widow is the star of not one, not two, but five different Marvel movies, there is not a single piece of Black Widow merchandise available. Not one. And if you go to the Disney store and look for a Black Widow costume, what you will find, is you will find Captain America and The Incredible Hulk. You will find Iron Man and Thor. You will even find War Machine, who isn't even really in the movie that long. Who you will not find is Black Widow. And I could have gone to Twitter with the hashtag, as many people did, # WheresNatasha. But I'm tired of doing that. I'm tired of having to do that. All over the country right now, there are kids playing with the Cycle Blast Quinjet play set, where Captain America rides a motorcycle out of a moving jet and it's really awesome. You know how awesome it is? So awesome that when it happened in the movie, it was Black Widow that did it. Not only has she been erased, but she has been replaced with a male figure. And so what is this teaching us? I mean, over the next five years, Disney and Warner Bros. and a bunch of movie studios are going to release over 30 feature-length films with comic book characters, and of those 30 feature-length films, exactly two of them will have female solo leads. Two. Now, there will be females in the rest of these movies, but they will be sidekicks, they will be love interests, they will be members of teams. They will not be the main character. And if what we learn, what we know about other people and about the world we learn through media, then these companies are teaching my daughter that even if she is strong and smart and fast and fights like a ninja, all four of which are true of her, it doesn't matter. She will either be ignored like Gamora or erased and replaced with a boy like Black Widow. And it's not fair. It's not fair to her and it's not fair to your sons and daughters either. But here's the thing: I'm raising a little girl, and she has a little tomboy in her, which by the way is a terrible thing to call a girl. What that basically is saying is, those traits that define you, they're not really yours, they're just on loan to you for a little while from boys. But do you know how much grief she's going to take in her life for having a little tomboy in her? Zero. None. People will think it's cute. They'll call her feisty, because in our society, adding so-called male traits to girls is seen as an upgrade, seen as a bonus. I'm not raising a little boy, like Mike. Mike is a little boy in Florida. He's 11 years old, and the thing that he loves most in the world is a show called ""My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic,"" like millions of other children across America. Now, the show is marketed to girls ages five to nine, but there are millions of boys and grown men who enjoy ""My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic."" They have a club. They call themselves Bronies, pony bros, guys who like ponies. I happen to be one of them. And what are Mike and myself and millions of other boys and men learning in this feminine, sissified world of ""My Little Pony?"" Well, they're learning to study hard and to work hard and to party hard and to look good and to feel good and to do good, and heaven preserve us from teaching these wussified concepts to boys. So the other kids in his neighborhood pick on Mike and they beat him up and they make fun of him, and at 11 years old, Mike goes home, finds a belt, wraps it around his neck, and hangs himself from the top bunk of his bed. Because we have developed a society in which you would rather be dead as a boy than thought of as liking stuff for girls. And that is not Mike's fault. That is our fault. We have failed him. We have failed our children. And we have to do better for them. We have to stop making it so that the only female superheroes appear on shirts that are pink and cut for girls. We have to stop. And when I was putting this together, people said to me, ""Well, that's never going to happen."" And I said, ""Oh really?"" Because just this year, Target announced that they were going to stop gendering their toy aisles. They were going to mix it up. Now, before we break our shoulders patting Target on the back, just this week they released a shirt in which one of the most iconic scenes in ""Star Wars: A New Hope"" where Princess Leia stands up to the Dark Lord of the Sith, was released on a t-shirt in which she's mysteriously replaced by Luke. So let's don't pat ourselves on the back too much. Just this week also, Disney announced it was no longer going to gender its Halloween costumes, which I say, ""Thank you, Disney, except the only costumes you make are of male superheroes, so does it matter who you have wearing them?"" Just this week, Mattel, who makes Barbie, announced they're going to release a line of DC superhero girls. And the funny thing is, they met with girls and asked them what they wanted to see in dolls, and you can see, they have calves and elbows that bend so they can do superhero stuff. And please buy them. And don't just buy them for your daughters, buy them for your sons. Because it's important that boys play with and as female superheroes just as my daughter plays with and as male superheroes. As a matter of fact, what I would love is a world in which every person who goes to the store goes with a little flowchart in their head of whether or not they should buy this toy for a boy or a girl, and it's a real simple flowchart because it only has one question on it. It says, ""Is this toy operated with your genitals?"" (Laughter) If the answer is yes, then that is not a toy for children. (Laughter) And if the answer is no, then it's for boys and girls. It's really simple. Because today is about the future of the future, and in my future, boys and girls are equally respected, equally valued, and most importantly, equally represented. Thank you. (Applause)"	大部分時間，我都在思考與小女孩們相關的事情。在我們的社會中，如果一個成年男人這樣做會顯得很奇怪，但我就是把大部分時間都用在思考有關小女孩的事情上，我認為這主要是因為我有女兒。這是我女兒，你們肯定會非常喜歡她，她聰明，幽默，為人友善，是一個講義氣的人。但是當我說起我的女兒時，我用得最多的詞語是：運動員。我的孩子是個運動員，她體魄强健，動如脫兔，有良好的平衡感和控制力。她曾是州內少林功夫比賽的三連冠，在九歲的時候，她已經在取得黑帶了。我的女兒是運動員。 現在，當一個身高近兩米體重265磅的男人站在你面前，說他的女兒是個運動員，你可能會覺得女兒是受爸爸影響，但實際上不是這樣。 （笑聲） 我的妻子當年在國中時代曾擔任兩屆全州足球運動員，同時也是兩屆全州排球運動員，而我只是一個玩《龍與地下城》遊戲的人。所以這就是為甚麼，即使我的女兒是運動員，她也是一個超級大怪胎，我超喜歡這一點。她在我們家裡穿自己縫製的大斗篷，上面印著火焰，她坐在鐵王寶座上—— （笑聲） 即使她從來沒有看過《權力的遊戲》。這主要是因為我們並不是世界上最糟糕的父母。但她知道裡面有個叫龍之母的人，她就自稱這個名字而且超級喜歡。她超喜歡看漫畫書，最近，她最喜歡的角色是格魯特。（出自《銀河守護隊》）她超愛格魯特，她也羨慕綠巨人，但是我女兒的心頭好是星球大戰。我的孩子是一個絕地武士，即使有些時候她也是一個西斯，但我可以尊重這個還不錯的選擇。 （笑聲） 但我要問一個問題：為甚麼當我女兒打扮成無論是格魯特還是綠巨人、無論是歐比王·肯諾比還是達斯·摩爾，為甚麼每個她打扮的角色都是男生形象呢？那些超級女英雄都在哪裡？這並不是問題的所在，因為還是有很多超級女英雄。我真正的問題是：跟超級女英雄有關的東西都在哪裡？她們的戲服，玩具都在哪裡？ 因為當女兒每天打扮自己玩的時候她也在學習。作為一個研究媒體的教授，這種過程在我的行業叫做公共教育學。這是社會灌輸意識型態的方式，這是你如何學習作為男人或是女人的意義、在公共場合舉止得體的意義、做為愛國者的意義、以及良好教養的意義。就是這些種種社會關係讓我們成為一個健全的人。簡單來說，這就是我們學習了解他人以及了解這個世界的方法。但是我們生活在被媒體滲透的社會中。也就是說，人類本身的存在除了身體機能外，都會多多少少受媒體影響。從你開的車到吃的食物到你穿的衣服以至你建立關係的方式到你用來思考的語言，所有的東西都或多或少被媒體化了。所以在社會中我們學習關於其他人與世界的一切時，主要都是透過媒體。 然而，這裡也有小問題：因為在我們的社會中，媒體不單是傳播信息的科技與工具，他們同樣以企業的形式存在。當信息的傳播與金錢的利益掛勾問題就出現了。問題有多嚴重？這麼想下：在1983年，百分之九十的美國媒體由五十個公司擁有。在任何市場中，五十個的公司是很大的群體，這裡面會有很多不同的觀點。但在2015年，這個數量縮減到六間公司。只有六個公司。他們是NBC環球集團，AOL時代華納華特迪士尼公司，新聞集團，維亞康姆，以及CBS集團。你看過的十之八九部電影，十之八九部電視劇，十之八九首歌曲，十之八九本書，都是由這六間公司出品。所以我給你的問題是，如果六家公司控制住美國百分之九十的媒體，你認為他們對你每天所能看到的有多大的控制呢？ 因為在媒體研究中。我們花了大量時間申明媒體無法告訴我們應思考甚麼。他們不能，而且他們做得很糟糕，但那畢竟不是他們的工作。媒體沒有告訴我們思考甚麼，它只是告訴我們要思考甚麼。媒體控制對話，而且在控制對話同時，你不用去找出媒體要你思考甚麼。媒體直接讓你思考它想你思考的事情，更重要的，不去思考那些它不想讓你去思考的事情。它們控制對話。 實際上這是如何做到的呢？讓我們看看其中一間公司，來看個簡單的。我們現在來看看華特迪士尼公司，我總是選華特迪士尼公司是因為，在場有哪位從來沒有看過一部迪士尼的電影？仔細看看四周。我選擇迪士尼因為他們擁有所謂的百分百滲透。在我們的社會中，迪士尼影響著所有人，所以對我來講這是個方便的例子。從1937年開始，迪士尼通過給女孩子賣公主玩具賺得盤滿缽滿。當然，除非你的女兒對公主沒興趣，比如我女兒。 看看，在2012年，迪士尼花了總數四十億美金買下了盧卡斯電影公司。接著迪士尼商店內是鋪天蓋地的韓・蘇洛，還有歐比王・肯諾比，達斯・維達路克・天行者以及尤達，但就是沒有莉亞公主。為甚麼？因為這個公主‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌跟公主的形象有出入。所以迪士尼沒有把莉亞公主的商品擺放在店裡。當人們到迪士尼說：那些莉亞公主的周邊商品呢：迪士尼說「我們沒有計畫售賣莉亞公主的商品。」粉絲超級生氣，把這件事發表到了推特，標籤名叫“我們要莉亞”。（#WeWantLeia）然後迪士尼說「等下,這不是我們的意思。我們的意思是目前我們尚沒有任何莉亞公主的商品，但是我們會生產的。」那是2012年的事情，現在已經2015年了，如果你像我一樣最近去過迪士尼的商店，尋找莉亞公主的商品，你知道店裡有多少莉亞公主擺出來嗎？零個，因為迪士尼並不打算把莉亞公主放到店鋪裡。 而且我們不應該感到驚訝，因為這就是迪士尼的政策。就像在2009年，迪士尼花了45億美金買下漫威。因為當你賺錢的方式是賣公主給女孩，你也想要從男孩手裡賺錢。那麼，還有甚麼比給男孩賣超級英雄更好的方式呢？所以迪士尼現在已經擁有美國隊長以及雷神，綠巨人，他們甚至擁有一組從未有人聽說過的英雄漫威總是能令超級英雄暢銷。 去年，他們出品了一部電影叫做「銀河護衛隊」，這是一部本來完全沒有成功機會的作品。除了一些像我一樣熱愛漫畫的怪胎沒有人聽說過他們是誰。其中一個角色是一顆會講話的樹，還有一個角色是人格化的浣熊，本來不會成功的。但是迪士尼讓《銀河護衛隊》大獲成功。 中間這個角色，她的名字叫葛摩，由柔伊・莎達娜扮演，她堅強，聰慧，敏捷，像忍者一樣決鬥，由是一個美麗的黑人女性飾演。我的女兒愛上了她，像任何一個稱職的怪胎老爸一樣，我去給女兒買了葛摩菈的周邊商品，當我到商店的時候，我了解到一件非常有意思的事情：如果我想給女兒買一個葛摩菈的背包，但是，葛摩菈不在上面。他們可能把這個書包作為「某些」銀河護衛隊成員的周邊商品在賣。 (笑聲) 而且如果我想給女兒買一個午餐盒，葛摩菈不在上頭，如果我想給女兒買一件葛摩菈的T恤，葛摩菈不在上面。實際情況是：如果我到店裡看看擺設，會看到一張超級小的葛摩菈圖片在這裡。如果你尋找貨架上的實際商品，葛摩菈不在任何一個商品上。 現在，我可以給推特上貼標籤#葛摩菈到哪去了，就好像世界上百萬粉絲過去做的那樣。但是真相是，我沒有一絲驚訝：因為當迪士尼發布《復仇者聯盟》時，我也在現場。就在今年，一部新的復仇者聯盟電影《奧創紀元》上映了，我們當時超級激動，因為裡面有兩個超級女英雄：緋紅女巫與黑寡婦。我們超級激動，這事成真了，即使史嘉蕾・喬韓森（美國最受歡迎女演員之一）她扮演的黑寡婦，而且黑寡婦不僅是一兩部漫威電影的明星，而是五部。然而，任何關於黑寡婦的商品仍然不存在。一個都沒有！如果你去迪士尼店裡尋找黑寡婦的衣服，你只能找到美國隊長和綠巨人的，你可以找到鋼鐵人以及雷神，你甚至可以找到戰爭機器，即使它們在電影中沒出現多久，但你就是找不到黑寡婦。我可以去推特貼標籤，像多數人那樣：#娜塔莎在哪裡？但我懶得這麼做，我懶得去做這些。 現在，全國中，有孩子在玩復仇者聯盟的戰鬥機套裝，美國隊長騎著摩托從戰鬥機直奔而出，這真的超級酷。你知道有多酷嗎？酷到當電影中這事發生的時候，是黑寡婦做到的。然而她不僅僅被抹掉了，而且還被男性角色代替， 所以這意味著甚麼？我指的是，在未來五年迪士尼和華納兄弟，還有其他電影工作室將要上映超過三十部長篇電影，他们改編自動漫人物。而在這三十部長篇電影中，已經確認有兩部將由女性擔當主角。兩部！剩下的電影中會有女性角色，但是他們都是配角，是電影的愛情原素，他們會是團隊的成員，但不會是主角。如果我們通過媒體學到關於其他人以及世界的信息。那麼，這些公司是在向我的女兒灌輸思想就是即使她是堅強，聰明，敏捷，勇猛如忍者，這四個特點都是她的真實寫照，可惜這些都不重要。她要麼會像葛摩菈那樣被忽視，要麼會被刪除或者被男孩所取代，就好像黑寡婦一樣。這真不公平，不僅對她不公平，對你的兒子，女兒也一樣不公平。 但是有件事：我在養育一個小女孩，一個頗有男子氣的女孩，然而這種稱呼是對女孩的諷刺。基本來說，定義你的那些特點並不是真正的你。這些特質只是從男孩那裡暫時借給你的。但是你知道就是因為她那男子氣，她將要承受多少痛苦嗎？零，一點都沒有。人們會覺得這很可愛，他們會稱她為活潑好動，因為在我們的社會中把這種所謂的男性特點放在女孩身上，看起來是一種讚揚，好像獎勵。我並不是在養育一個男孩，像麥可 麥可是一個在佛羅里達的男孩他十一歲了，世界上他最喜歡的事，就是一個叫做《彩虹小馬:友誼就是魔法》的演出，好比美國其他數百萬的孩子一樣。現在，這個表演的目標銷售人群是五歲到九歲的小女孩，但是有上百萬個男孩以及成年的男人也喜歡看《彩虹小馬:友誼就是魔法》。他們有個俱樂部，他們自稱小馬。小馬哥，喜歡小馬的哥們，我恰好也是他們中的一位。而我和麥可還有其他上百萬的男孩與男人從這個女性化娘娘腔的《彩虹小馬》世界中學到了甚麼？他們認識到要認真學習，努力工作，盡情地玩，要打扮好看， 保持愉悅，和做有益的事情。然而上帝不允許我們把這些柔弱的思想傳授給男孩。 所以麥可鄰居的其他小孩欺負他，揍他，嘲笑他。在麥可十一歲的時候，他回家，找了條皮帶，繞在自己的脖子上，把自己吊死在上格床的圍欄上。因為我們建立了這樣的社會，在這裡你寧願作為一個男孩去死也不要被人認為喜歡女孩子的玩具。這不是麥可的錯，這是我們的錯，我們對不起他。我們對不起自己的孩子們。所以我們要為他們做的更好。我們需要停止製造這種印象：唯一出現在T恤上的女英雄都是粉色的，給女孩穿的。我們必須要停止， 當我把這些放在一起的時候，人們朝我說，「這永遠不會發生」我會說「喔,是嗎?」。因為就在今年,，塔吉特(超市)宣布：他們將停止以性別區分玩具部通道，他們會把玩具混在一起。現在，我們滿懷歡喜，準備讚揚塔吉特時，就在這周，他們推出了一件衣服，「星球大戰:曙光乍現」中最有代表性的一幕—-莉亞公主對抗西斯黑暗尊主。被印在T恤上，在裡面，公主被路克神秘地取代了，所以，我們不要太指望他們。同樣就在這周，迪士尼申明將不再給萬聖節服飾區分性別。這裡我要說：「謝謝你，迪士尼可是你唯一製造的服飾只印有超級男英雄所以無論是誰穿，又有甚麼區別呢？」就在這周，製造芭比娃娃的美泰兒，宣布他們將要發布一系列DC超級英雄女孩。有意思的是，他們見了一些女孩，問她們想在娃娃上看到甚麼。你能看到，娃娃有可以彎曲的小腿和手肘，這樣她們就能做一些超人的動作。所以請買他們吧，不只是給你的女兒買，也買給你們的兒子。因為給男孩玩這些超級女英雄的玩具很重要，就好比我女兒玩超級男英雄一樣。 實際上，我所愛的世界，是一個人人都可以去商店，腦內都有一個小小的流程圖，讓他們決定應否買這玩具給男孩或者女孩。這是一個簡單的圖表，因為裡面只有一個問題：「這個玩具有生殖器官嗎?」 (笑聲) 如果有的話，那麼這玩具就是兒童不宜了。 (笑聲) 如果沒有的話，那玩具就適合男孩和女孩玩。就是這麼簡單。因為今天都是關於未來的未來，而在我的未來中，男孩和女孩會同樣得到尊重，同樣受到重視，最重要的，同樣獲得代表。 謝謝你們 (掌聲)
