Talk	en	zh-tw
christopher_mcdougall_are_we_born_to_run	"Running: it's basically just right, left, right, left, yeah? I mean, we've been doing it for two million years, so it's kind of arrogant to assume that I've got something to say that hasn't been said and performed better a long time ago. But the cool thing about running, as I've discovered, is that something bizarre happens in this activity all the time. Case in point: A couple months ago, if you saw the New York City Marathon, I guarantee you, you saw something that no one has ever seen before. An Ethiopian woman named Derartu Tulu turns up at the starting line. She's 37 years old. She hasn't won a marathon of any kind in eight years, and a few months previously, she had almost died in childbirth. Derartu Tulu was ready to hang it up and retire from the sport, but she decided she'd go for broke and try for one last big payday in the marquee event, the New York City Marathon. Except — bad news for Derartu Tulu — some other people had the same idea, including the Olympic gold medalist, and Paula Radcliffe, who is a monster, the fastest woman marathoner in history by far. Only 10 minutes off the men's world record, Paula Radcliffe is essentially unbeatable. That's her competition. The gun goes off, and — I mean, she's not even an underdog; she's, like, under the underdogs. But the under-underdog hangs tough, and 22 miles into a 26-mile race, there is Derartu Tulu, up there with the lead pack. Now, this is when something really bizarre happens. Paula Radcliffe, the one person who is sure to snatch the big paycheck from Derartu Tulu's under-underdog hands, suddenly grabs her leg and starts to fall back. So we all know what to do in this situation, right? You give her a quick crack in the teeth with your elbow and blaze for the finish line. Derartu Tulu ruins the script. Instead of taking off, she falls back and she grabs Paula Radcliffe, and says, ""Come on. Come with us. You can do it."" So Paula Radcliffe, unfortunately, does it. She catches up with the lead pack and is pushing toward the finish line. But then she falls back again. The second time, Derartu Tulu grabs her and tries to pull her. And Paula Radcliffe, at that point, says, ""I'm done. Go."" So that's a fantastic story, and we all know how it ends. She loses the check, but she goes home with something bigger and more important. Except Derartu Tulu ruins the script again. Instead of losing, she blazes past the lead pack and wins. Wins the New York City Marathon, goes home with a big fat check. It's a heartwarming story, but if you drill a little bit deeper, you've got to sort of wonder about what exactly was going on there. When you have two outliers in one organism, it's not a coincidence. When you have someone who is more competitive and more compassionate than anybody else in the race, again, it's not a coincidence. You show me a creature with webbed feet and gills; somehow water's involved. Someone with that kind of heart, there's some kind of connection there. And the answer to it, I think, can be found down in the Copper Canyons of Mexico, where there's a reclusive tribe, called the Tarahumara Indians. Now, the Tarahumara are remarkable for three things. Number one is: they have been living essentially unchanged for the past 400 years. When the conquistadors arrived in North America you had two choices: you either fight back and engage or you could take off. The Mayans and Aztecs engaged, which is why there are very few Mayans and Aztecs. The Tarahumara had a different strategy. They took off and hid in this labyrinthine, networking, spider-webbing system of canyons called the Copper Canyons. And there they've remained since the 1600s, essentially the same way they've always been. The second thing remarkable about the Tarahumara is: deep into old age — 70 to 80 years old — these guys aren't running marathons; they're running mega-marathons. They're not doing 26 miles, they're doing 100, 150 miles at a time, and apparently without injury, without problems. The last thing that's remarkable about the Tarahumara is: all the things we're going to be talking about today, all the things we're trying to use all of our technology and brain power to solve — things like heart disease and cholesterol and cancer; crime, warfare and violence; clinical depression — all this stuff — the Tarahumara don't know what you're talking about. They are free from all of these modern ailments. So what's the connection? Again, we're talking about outliers; there's got to be some kind of cause and effect. Well, there are teams of scientists at Harvard and the University of Utah that are bending their brains and trying to figure out what the Tarahumara have known forever. They're trying to solve those same kinds of mysteries. And once again, a mystery wrapped inside of a mystery — perhaps the key to Derartu Tulu and the Tarahumara is wrapped in three other mysteries, which go like this: Three things — if you have the answer, come up and take the microphone, because nobody else knows the answer. If you know it, you're smarter than anybody on planet Earth. Mystery number one is this: Two million years ago, the human brain exploded in size. Australopithecus had a tiny little pea brain. Suddenly humans show up, Homo erectus, big old melon head. To have a brain of that size, you need to have a source of condensed caloric energy. In other words, early humans are eating dead animals — no argument, that's a fact. The only problem is, the first edged weapons only appeared about 200,000 years ago. So somehow, for nearly two million years, we are killing animals without any weapons. Now, we're not using our strength, because we are the biggest sissies in the jungle. Every other animal is stronger than we are, they have fangs, they have claws, they have nimbleness, they have speed. We think Usain Bolt is fast. Usain Bolt can get his ass kicked by a squirrel. We're not fast. That would be an Olympic event: turn a squirrel loose, whoever catches it gets a gold medal. (Laughter) So no weapons, no speed, no strength, no fangs, no claws. How were we killing these animals? Mystery number one. Mystery number two: Women have been in the Olympics for quite some time now, but one thing that's remarkable about all women sprinters: they all suck; they're terrible. There's not a fast woman on the planet and there never has been. The fastest woman to ever run a mile did it in 4:15. I could throw a rock and hit a high-school boy who can run faster than 4:15. For some reason, you guys are just really slow. But — (Laughter) But, you get to the marathon we were just talking about — you've only been allowed to run the marathon for 20 years, because prior to the 1980s, medical science said if a woman tried to run 26 miles — does anyone know what would happen if you tried to run 26 miles? Why you were banned from the marathon before the 1980s? Audience Member: Her uterus would be torn. Christopher McDougall: Her uterus would be torn, yes. Torn reproductive organs. The uterus would literally fall out of the body. (Laughter) Now, I've been to a lot of marathons, and I've yet to see any ... (Laughter) So it's only been 20 years that women have been allowed to run the marathon. In that very short learning curve, you've gone from broken organs up to the fact that you're only 10 minutes off the male world record. Then you go beyond 26 miles, into the distance that medical science also told us would be fatal to humans — remember Pheidippides died when he ran 26 miles — you get to 50 and 100 miles, and suddenly, it's a different game. You take a runner like Ann Trason or Nikki Kimball or Jenn Shelton, put them in a race of 50 or 100 miles against anybody in the world, and it's a coin toss who's going to win. I'll give you an example. A couple years ago, Emily Baer signed up for a race called the Hardrock 100, which tells you all you need to know about the race. They give you 48 hours to finish this race. Well, Emily Baer — 500 runners — she finishes in eighth place, in the top 10, even though she stopped at all the aid stations to breastfeed her baby during the race. (Laughter) And yet, she beat 492 other people. The last mystery: Why is it that women get stronger as distances get longer? The third mystery is this: At the University of Utah, they started tracking finishing times for people running the marathon. What they found is that if you start running the marathon at age 19, you'll get progressively faster, year by year, until you reach your peak at age 27. And then after that, you succumb to the rigors of time. And you'll get slower and slower, until eventually you're back to running the same speed you were at age 19. So about seven, eight years to reach your peak, and then gradually you fall off your peak, until you go back to the starting point. You'd think it might take eight years to go back to the same speed, maybe 10 years — no, it's 45 years. 64-year-old men and women are running as fast as they were at age 19. Now, I defy you to come up with any other physical activity — and please don't say golf — something that's actually hard — (Laughter) where geriatrics are performing as well as they did as teenagers. So you have these three mysteries. Is there one piece in the puzzle which might wrap all these things up? You've got to be careful anytime someone looks back in prehistory and tries to give you a global answer because, it being prehistory, you can say whatever the hell you want and get away with it. But I'll submit this to you: If you put one piece in the middle of this jigsaw puzzle, suddenly it all starts to form a coherent picture. If you're wondering why the Tarahumara don't fight and don't die of heart disease, why a poor Ethiopian woman named Derartu Tulu can be the most compassionate and yet the most competitive, and why we somehow were able to find food without weapons, perhaps it's because humans, as much as we like to think of ourselves as masters of the universe, actually evolved as nothing more than a pack of hunting dogs. Maybe we evolved as a hunting pack animal. Because the one advantage we have in the wilderness — again, it's not our fangs, our claws or our speed — the only thing we do really well is sweat. We're really good at being sweaty and smelly. Better than any other mammal on Earth, we can sweat really well. But the advantage of that little bit of social discomfort is the fact that, when it comes to running under hot heat for long distances, we're superb — the best on the planet. You take a horse on a hot day, and after about five or six miles, that horse has a choice: it's either going to breathe or it's going to cool off. But it ain't doing both. We can. So what if we evolved as hunting pack animals? What if the only natural advantage we had in the world was the fact that we could get together as a group, go out there on that African savanna, pick out an antelope, go out as a pack, and run that thing to death? That's all we could do. We could run really far on a hot day. Well, if that's true, a couple other things had to be true as well. The key to being part of a hunting pack is the word ""pack."" If you go out by yourself and try to chase an antelope, I guarantee there will be two cadavers out in the savanna. You need a pack to pull together. You need to have those 64- and 65-year-olds who have been doing this for a long time to understand which antelope you're trying to catch. The herd explodes and it gathers back again. Those expert trackers have to be part of the pack. They can't be 10 miles behind. You need the women and the adolescents there, because the two times in your life you most benefit from animal protein is when you're a nursing mother and a developing adolescent. It makes no sense to have the antelope over there, dead, and the people who want to eat it 50 miles away. They need to be part of the pack. You need those 27-year-old studs at the peak of their powers ready to drop the kill, and you need those teenagers who are learning the whole thing involved. The pack stays together. Another thing that has to be true: this pack cannot be materialistic. You can't be hauling all your crap around, trying to chase the antelope. You can't be a pissed-off pack. You can't be bearing grudges, like, ""I'm not chasing that guy's antelope. He pissed me off. Let him go chase his own antelope."" The pack has got to be able to swallow its ego, be cooperative, and pull together. What you end up with, in other words, is a culture remarkably similar to the Tarahumara, a tribe that has remained unchanged since the Stone Age. It's a really compelling argument that maybe the Tarahumara are doing exactly what all of us had done for two million years, that it's us in modern times who have sort of gone off the path. You know, we look at running as this kind of alien, foreign thing, this punishment you've got to do because you ate pizza the night before. But maybe it's something different. Maybe we're the ones who have taken this natural advantage we had and we spoiled it. How do we spoil it? Well, how do we spoil anything? We try to cash in on it. Right? We try to can it and package it and make it ""better"" and then sell it to people. And then what happened was, we started creating these fancy cushioned things which can make running ""better,"" called running shoes. The reason I get personally pissed-off about running shoes is because I bought a million of them and I kept getting hurt. And I think if anybody in here runs — I just had a conversation with Carol. We talked for two minutes backstage, and she talked about plantar fasciitis. You talk to a runner, I guarantee within 30 seconds, the conversation turns to injury. So if humans evolved as runners, if that's our one natural advantage, then why are we so bad at it? Why do we keep getting hurt? A curious thing about running and running injuries is that the running injury is new to our time. If you read folklore and mythology, any kind of myths, any kind of tall tales, running is always associated with freedom and vitality and youthfulness and eternal vigor. It's only in our lifetime that running has become associated with fear and pain. Geronimo used to say, ""My only friends are my legs. I only trust my legs."" That's because an Apache triathlon used to be you'd run 50 miles across the desert, engage in hand-to-hand combat, steal a bunch of horses, and slap leather for home. Geronimo was never saying, ""You know something, my Achilles — I'm tapering. I've got to take this week off."" Or, ""I need to cross-train. I didn't do yoga. I'm not ready."" (Laughter) Humans ran and ran all the time. We are here today. We have our digital technology. All of our science comes from the fact that our ancestors were able to do something extraordinary every day, which was just rely on their naked feet and legs to run long distances. So how do we get back to that again? Well, I would submit to you the first thing is: get rid of all packaging, all the sales, all the marketing. Get rid of all the stinking running shoes. Stop focusing on urban marathons, which, if you do four hours, you suck, and if you do 3:59:59, you're awesome, because you qualified for another race. We need to get back to that sense of playfulness and joyfulness and, I would say, nakedness, that has made the Tarahumara one of the healthiest and serene cultures in our time. So what's the benefit? So what? So you burn off the Häagen-Dazs from the night before. But maybe there's another benefit there as well. Without getting too extreme about this, imagine a world where everybody could go out the door and engage in the kind of exercise that's going to make them more relaxed, more serene, more healthy, burn off stress — where you don't come back into your office a raging maniac anymore, or go home with a lot of stress on top of you again. Maybe there's something between what we are today and what the Tarahumara have always been. I don't say let's go back to the Copper Canyons and live on corn and maize, which is the Tarahumara's preferred diet, but maybe there's somewhere in between. And if we find that thing, maybe there is a big fat Nobel Prize out there. Because if somebody could find a way to restore that natural ability that we all enjoyed for most of our existence up until the 1970s or so, the benefits — social and physical and political and mental — could be astounding. What I've been seeing today is there is a growing subculture of barefoot runners, people who've gotten rid of their shoes. And what they have found uniformly is, you get rid of the shoes, you get rid of the stress, you get rid of the injuries and the ailments. And what you find is something the Tarahumara have known for a very long time: that this can be a whole lot of fun. I've experienced it personally myself. I was injured all my life; then in my early 40s, I got rid of my shoes and my running ailments have gone away, too. So hopefully it's something we can all benefit from. I appreciate your listening to this story. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	跑步：基本上就是右，左，右，左——對吧？就是說，我們已經這樣跑了兩百萬年，所以我這樣可能有點不知天高地厚如果我說我知道一些東西是很久以來都沒人能更好表述和演示過的。但是我所發現的關於跑步的最有意思的就是有些奇怪的事情發生在這個運動的全過程。舉個例子：幾個月前，如果你看了紐約城的馬拉松，我敢肯定你看到了一些前所未見的東西。有一位埃塞俄比亞女子叫 Derartu Tulu出現在起跑線上。她37歲，在過去8年裡從未贏過任何一場馬拉松比賽，而就在幾個月前，她幾乎難產而死。Derartu Tulu 已經準備挂靴而去，退出體育運動，但是她決定要全力以赴做一次最後的衝刺，她選擇了一個盛會紐約市馬拉松比賽。但是——對Derartu Tulu來說有個壞消息——有人和她帶著同樣的想法，包括奧運會金牌得主，以及Paula Radcliffe，她簡直就是猛獸，她是有史以來速度最快的馬拉松女選手。與男子的世界紀錄就差10分鐘。基本上Paula Radcliffe 是不可戰勝的。這就是她要面對的競賽。 槍響了，而她甚至不算是跟跑者；她是跟跑者的跟跑者。但是這個跟跑者的跟跑者頑強地堅持著。在整個26英里賽程跑完22英里時，Derartu Tulu的位置已在領跑隊伍中。就是現在，一件非常奇怪的事情發生了。Paula Radcliffe，那個注定要從跟跑者的跟跑者Derartu Tulu手裡奪取獎金支票的那個人，突然握住自己的腿開始落後。我們都知道這種情況該怎麼辦，是不是？你應該舉起你的胳膊肘衝著她的嘴來一下然後閃電一樣的奔向終點。Dearartu Tulu 卻出乎大家意料。她非但沒有拋開對手，反而落在後面，抓住Paula Radcliffe說，“加油，跟上我們，你能行。”很不幸， Paula Radcliffe做到了。她追上了領跑者隊伍，一直衝向終點。但是接著她又一次落後了。而 Derartu Tulu 再次抓住她，試圖拉扯她前進。這一次Paula Radcliffe 說，“我不行了。你走吧。”這是一個美妙的故事，我們都知道故事的結尾。她失去了獎金，但是她收穫了更偉大更重要的東西。只不過Derartu Tulu 再次讓大家意外。她非但沒輸，反而超過了領跑組，贏得第一。贏得紐約市馬拉松比賽，獲得巨額獎金。 這是一個暖人肺腑的故事，但是如果你仔細想想，你會想知道到底發生了什麼。當你從一個有機體上錄得兩次異常值時，這不是一個巧合。當在比賽中有一個人比任何人都更有競爭力也更有同情心，這也不是一個巧合。當你讓我看到一個動物有著扁平的足和鱗片時，它多少應該和水有關係。 一個有著那樣的心（臟）的人，一定和什麼東西有關。我認為答案就在墨西哥的銅峽谷（Copper Canyons ），在那裡有一個部落，一個隱居的部落，叫做 Tarahumara 族印第安人。現在Tarahumara族人因三件事而出名。第一，他們的生活基本沒發生變化已經400年。當西班牙征服者到達北美時，你有兩個選擇：要麼還擊被征服要麼離開。瑪雅人和阿茲特克人被征服了，這就是為什麼現在瑪雅人和阿茲特克人都很稀少。Tarahumara人有著不同的策略。他們逃走藏進了迷宮一般蜿蜒曲折如蛛網一般複雜的峽谷群中，這就是銅峽谷，他們從17世紀開始就一直生活在那裡——一直以來基本沒有變化。Tarahumara人出名的第二件事是直至高齡階段——70到80歲——這些人跑的不是馬拉松，而是超級馬拉松。他們不跑26英里，他們一次跑100，150英里。而且顯然不受任何損傷，也沒有其他問題。 Tarahumara人出名的最後的一個事，就是我們今天所探討的所有東西所有那些我們想要弄明白的，動用我們所有的技術和腦力去解決的問題——像心髒病，膽固醇，癌症，犯罪，戰爭，暴力和臨床性的抑鬱症——所有這些東西，對Tarahumara 人來說都是聞所未聞的。他們不受所有這些疾病的影響。那麼這裡的關聯是什麼？我們在回去討論異常值。 這裡肯定有某種因果關係。有一些科學家在哈佛和猶他大學，在絞盡腦汁想搞清楚的東西卻是Tarahumara一直以來都知道的。他們試圖解決一些同類的奧秘。而再一次，一個秘密裡藏著另一個秘密——也許解開 Derartu Tulu和Tarahumara人的秘密的鑰匙就在這三個秘密中，它們是：這三件事——如果你知道答案，請上台來對著話筒說，因為沒別人知道答案。而如果你知道，你就比地球人的所有人都聰明。第一個謎團：2百萬年前，人類的大腦突然增大。南方古猿只有豌豆般大的大腦。突然，人類出現了——直立人——西瓜一般大的大腦。要有這麼大的大腦，你需要具備濃縮的熱量能量源。換言之，早期人類吃死去的動物——毫無疑問，這是事實。唯一的問題是，最早的帶刃的武器只出現在20萬年前。 因此不知怎樣在大約200萬年裡，我們在赤手空拳地獵取動物。現在我們不怎麼使用自己的力量，因為我們是叢林裡最最膽小的傢伙。所有別的動物都比我們更強壯。它們有尖牙，利爪，機敏和速度。我們都知道Usain Bolt （世界百米冠軍）跑得很快，但他在松鼠面前簡直不值一提。我們跑的並不快。奧運會應該有這麼個比賽：放出一隻松鼠，誰抓到松鼠誰得金牌。那麼，沒有武器，沒有速度，沒有力量，沒有尖牙利爪。我們是如何獵殺這些動物的？這是第一個謎團。 第二個謎團:婦女參加奧運會至今已經有相當長一段歷史了，但是有件事是在所有女短跑選手身上都很明顯的——她們都跑太慢，慢的可怕。地球上就沒有跑的快的女人永遠也不會有。一英里跑的最快的女選手用時4分15秒。我扔個石頭隨便砸到一個高中男生他也能跑的比4分15秒還快。出於某些原因，你們跑的確實太慢了。（觀眾笑聲）但是回到我們剛剛提到的馬拉松——你們女人被允許跑馬拉松只是近20年的事。因為在80年代前，醫學界認為如果一個女人試圖跑26英里——有誰知道如果跑26英里會發生什麼嗎？為什麼在80年代以前禁止你們跑馬拉松？（某觀眾：會撕裂子宮）她的子宮會撕裂。是的。會撕裂生殖器官。子宮會脫垂，真的脫到體外。我去過很多馬拉松比賽，我從來沒見過這種事發生。（觀眾笑聲）所以自女子可以參加馬拉松以來只有20年。在這麼短的學習曲線上，你們從器官損傷一下跳躍到僅有10分鐘的差距就可以追上男子的世界紀錄。 然後你們超越了26英里，達到的長度是醫學認為對全人類來說都是致命的——還記得Pheidippides（公元前5世紀希臘長跑運動員）跑到26英里時死了——你們跑了50到100英里，然後突然之間變成了不同的比賽。長跑運動員如Ann Trason, Nikki Kimball, Jenn Shelton,你讓他們和世界上隨便一些人比賽跑50到100英里，誰會贏就只能靠扔硬幣預測了。給你們一個例子。幾年前，Emily Baer 報名參加名為硬石100（Hardrock 100）的比賽，從名字你就能知道比賽的內容。你有48小時完成比賽。而Emily Baer 在500個選手中以第八的成績完成比賽，居於前十名。她甚至在每個補給站都停下來好在比賽中還能給自己的孩子餵母乳——但還是打敗了其他492個人。最後一個謎團：就是為什麼當距離越長女人就越有力？ 最後一個謎團是這樣的：在猶他大學，他們開始追踪那些跑馬拉松的人跑完全程的次數。他們發現如果你從19歲就開始跑馬拉松，隨著年歲的增長你會越跑越快，直到27歲的時候到達頂峰。然後，你屈服於時間的嚴酷。你會跑的越來越慢，直到你逐漸回复到你19歲時的速度。因此大概在7到8年的時間裡你攀上頂峰，然後逐漸從高峰滑落，直到你回到起點。你可能會以為要再花8年時間回到19歲的速度也可能是10年——不，是45年。60歲的男子和女子和19歲時跑的一樣快。我挑戰你們能舉出其他任何一種體育運動——不過拜託別說高爾夫球——要真正有難度的運動——在這個運動裡老年人的表現與十幾歲時一樣。 就這樣你面對這三個謎團。在這迷霧中是否有一小塊拼圖能把所有這些謎都收攏起來？任何時候你都要非常小心某個人會回顧史前時代然後就試圖丟給你一個整體上的答案，因為那是史前時代，你可以想說什麼就說什麼然後一走了之。但我要呈現給大家的是：如果你把一小塊碎片放在這個大拼圖的中央，突然之間，它開始組成一幅條理清晰的圖畫。如果你想知道為什麼Tarahumara人不反抗，也沒有死於心髒病，為什麼一個貧窮的埃塞俄比亞女子Derartu Tulu會是最有同情心同時又是最有競爭力的選手，以及為什麼我們不知怎樣卻可以沒有武器而獲得食物，也許這只是因為人類，儘管我們喜歡把自己想像為宇宙的主人，但事實上我們只是進化為一群獵犬。 也許我們進化為一種群體狩獵的動物。因為我們在荒野中所具備的一個優勢——再說一次，不是我們的牙齒爪子和速度——我們能幹非常非常好的唯一一件事就是出汗。我們很善於大汗淋漓渾身汗臭。與地球上的任何其他動物相比，我們真的很能出汗。但是這個會造成小小的社交不適的優點其實質就是當在高溫下長距離奔跑時，我們是很出色的，我們是星球上最棒的。你在一個炎熱天氣裡騎馬經過5到6英里，這匹馬面臨一個選擇。它要麼繼續喘氣，要麼讓自己降溫，但它不能兩者同時進行——我們就能。所以要是我們就是進化為群體狩獵的動物呢？要是我們在這個世界上所擁有的唯一一個優勢就是我們事實上組成一個群體，在非洲的熱帶大草原上看準一只羚羊，成群結隊地追趕那個動物直到它倒地而亡？那就是我們所能做的；我們能在炎熱天氣裡跑很遠很遠。 如果這是事實，那必須還要加上另外幾個事實。要成為一個狩獵群體的一員的關鍵在於「群體」。如果你單獨行動想追捕一隻羚羊，我向你保證最後草原上將倒下兩具屍體。你需要一個群體集體合作。你需要有一些64，65歲的人，他們長期以來都在做這件事，能了解你真正想追趕的是哪頭羚羊。羊群會散開然後又聚攏。那些專業的追踪者必須成為群體的一員。他們不能落在後面10英里。你還需要婦女和青少年加入因為在人生中有兩個最需要蛋白質的階段就是哺乳期的母親和生長發育時的青少年。要是一隻羚羊死在這裡而需要吃它的人卻在50英里以外那就毫無意義了。他們也必須是群體的成員。你需要那些27歲到達巔峰狀態的領跑者準備完成撲殺，你還需要那些青少年在這裡他們在全程參與中學習這一切。這個群體必須在一起。 要讓這個群體存在需要的另一個事實是：這個群體不能太多物質。你不可能拖著你的大包小包還去追趕那隻羚羊。你也不能是一群脾氣暴躁的人，你不能帶著不滿捕獵。例如：「我才不要追那個人的羚羊。他讓我不爽。讓他自己追他自己的羊去吧。」這個群體的成員必須放下自己的自負，齊心協力，團結合作。換言之，你最終形成的是一種文化非常接近於Tarahumara人的文化——這個部族自石器時代以來都一直保持不變。這是個很有說服力的觀點即 Tarahumara 人所做的正是我們所有人2百萬年來所做的。 是我們這些現代人在某程度上偏離了這條道路。要知道我們視跑步為陌生，異樣的事，是因為昨天晚上吃了批薩而不得不受的懲罰。但也許並非如此。也許我們本來擁有這一自然的優勢卻毀了它。我們是怎麼毀掉它的呢？跟我們毀掉別的東西一樣。我們試圖用它賺錢。我們試圖給它包裝打扮令它更好，然後賣給顧客。我們開始製造出這些好看的帶氣墊的東西，它能令跑步更舒服，叫做跑鞋。 我對跑鞋有私人恩怨我買了那麼多那麼多雙跑鞋可是我還是不斷受傷。然後我就想，如果這裡有人也跑步的話——我剛和Carol討論過；我們在後台聊了兩分鐘，然後她說到足底的筋膜炎。如果你和一個跑步的人聊天，我保證，30秒內，話題就會轉到傷病。如果人進化為跑手，如果這是我們唯一的自然優勢那麼我們為什麼跑得這麼差？為什麼我們不斷受傷？ 有關跑步和跑步受傷的一個奇怪的事就是跑步受傷是我們這個時代的新產物。如果你讀民間故事和神話，隨便哪種神話，隨便哪個童話，奔跑總是伴隨著自由，力量，青春和永恆的活力。只是到了我們這個時代跑步才開始伴隨著恐懼和痛苦。Geronimo（19世紀反抗美國政府的北美印第安武士）曾經說過，「我唯一的朋友就是我的腿。我只信任我的腿。」那是因為阿帕奇部落的鐵人三項運動包括跑步50英里穿越沙漠，近身肉搏，偷一群馬，以及射擊。Geronimo從來沒說過，「啊，你知道嗎，我的阿克琉斯之踵啊，——我在調整狀態。我這星期不能跑，」或說，「我需要交叉訓練。我沒做瑜伽。我沒準備好。」人能跑而且一直在跑。我們活到今天，有數碼技術。我們所有的科學都來自於這個事實，即我們的祖先每天都能做這件非比尋常的事，就是只是依靠光腳和腿長距離奔跑。 那麼我們如何再次回到那個狀態？那麼我要告訴你們的第一件事就是擺脫所有的包裝，減價和推銷。擺脫所有那些討厭的跑鞋。不要再關注城市馬拉松，那種東西你要跑4小時的話你真是太慢了。如果你3小時59分59秒就能完成那你真是太棒了。因為你夠格參加另外一種比賽。我們需要找回那種遊戲和快樂的感覺，我還想說，赤裸裸的感覺，正是它使得 Tarahumara族成為我們這個時代最健康最平和的文化。那麼好處在哪裡？又會怎樣？就只是能燃燒掉頭天晚上吃的哈根達斯了嗎？ 但也許還有另外一個好處。我說的一點沒有將其極端化，想像一個世界每個人都能走出家門參加某種運動可以使他們更放鬆，更平和，更健康，釋放壓力——在那裡你不再帶著極度的狂躁踏進辦公室，也不再背著一堆壓力回到家裡。也許在我們現在的狀態和Tarahumara 人一直以來的狀態之間存在著某種東西。我並不是說讓我們回到銅峽谷，吃玉米為生，這是Tarahumara人的最愛。但也許是中間的某個狀態。如果我們能夠找到那個狀態，也許有個諾貝爾獎正等著我們拿呢。因為如果有人能想辦法恢復這種天然的能力使我們能從鍛煉中得到最大的享受，我們直到70年代前一直都在享受的社會和生理上的政治和精神上的益處，將會是驚人的。 因此我到今天所看到的是一個正在成長中的次文化，光腳跑步，人們丟掉他們的鞋子。他們無一例外地發現當你丟掉鞋子，你也丟掉了壓力，丟掉了傷痛和不適。你所找到的是Tarahumara人一直以來都了解的，而這一切都非常有趣。我自己已經親身體驗過。我一輩子都在受傷，而直到我40歲出頭我丟掉了我的鞋，而我因跑步而來的傷病也隨之消失了。 因此希望這使我們大家都能獲益。謝謝大家聽我講的故事。非常感謝。 （觀眾鼓掌）
