Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_anderson_how_web_video_powers_global_innovation	"If nothing else, at least I've discovered what it is we put our speakers through: sweaty palms, sleepless nights, a wholly unnatural fear of clocks. I mean, it's quite brutal. And I'm also a little nervous about this. There are nine billion humans coming our way. Now, the most optimistic dreams can get dented by the prospect of people plundering the planet. But recently, I've become intrigued by a different way of thinking of large human crowds, because there are circumstances where they can do something really cool. It's a phenomenon that I think any organization or individual can tap into. It certainly impacted the way we think about TED's future, and perhaps the world's future overall. So, let's explore. The story starts with just a single person, a child, behaving a little strangely. This kid is known online as Lil Demon. He's doing tricks here, dance tricks, that probably no six-year-old in history ever managed before. How did he learn them? And what drove him to spend the hundreds of hours of practice this must have taken? Here's a clue. (Video) Lil Demon: ♫ Step your game up. Oh. Oh. ♫ ♫ Step your game up. Oh. Oh. ♫ Chris Anderson: So, that was sent to me by this man, a filmmaker, Jonathan Chu, who told me that was the moment he realized the Internet was causing dance to evolve. This is what he said at TED in February. In essence, dancers were challenging each other online to get better; incredible new dance skills were being invented; even the six-year-olds were joining in. It felt like a revolution. And so Jon had a brilliant idea: He went out to recruit the best of the best dancers off of YouTube to create this dance troupe — The League of Extraordinary Dancers, the LXD. I mean, these kids were web-taught, but they were so good that they got to play at the Oscars this year. And at TED here in February, their passion and brilliance just took our breath away. So, this story of the evolution of dance seems strangely familiar. You know, a while after TEDTalks started taking off, we noticed that speakers were starting to spend a lot more time in preparation. It was resulting in incredible new talks like these two. ... Months of preparation crammed into 18 minutes, raising the bar cruelly for the next generation of speakers, with the effects that we've seen this week. It's not as if J.J. and Jill actually ended their talks saying, ""Step your game up,"" but they might as well have. So, in both of these cases, you've got these cycles of improvement, apparently driven by people watching web video. What is going on here? Well, I think it's the latest iteration of a phenomenon we can call ""crowd-accelerated innovation."" And there are just three things you need for this thing to kick into gear. You can think of them as three dials on a giant wheel. You turn up the dials, the wheel starts to turn. And the first thing you need is ... a crowd, a group of people who share a common interest. The bigger the crowd, the more potential innovators there are. That's important, but actually most people in the crowd occupy these other roles. They're creating the ecosystem from which innovation emerges. The second thing you need is light. You need clear, open visibility of what the best people in that crowd are capable of, because that is how you will learn how you will be empowered to participate. And third, you need desire. You know, innovation's hard work. It's based on hundreds of hours of research, of practice. Absent desire, not going to happen. Now, here's an example — pre-Internet — of this machine in action. Dancers at a street corner — it's a crowd, a small one, but they can all obviously see what each other can do. And the desire part comes, I guess, from social status, right? Best dancer walks tall, gets the best date. There's probably going to be some innovation happening here. But on the web, all three dials are ratcheted right up. The dance community is now global. There's millions connected. And amazingly, you can still see what the best can do, because the crowd itself shines a light on them, either directly, through comments, ratings, email, Facebook, Twitter, or indirectly, through numbers of views, through links that point Google there. So, it's easy to find the good stuff, and when you've found it, you can watch it in close-up repeatedly and read what hundreds of people have written about it. That's a lot of light. But the desire element is really dialed way up. I mean, you might just be a kid with a webcam, but if you can do something that goes viral, you get to be seen by the equivalent of sports stadiums crammed with people. You get hundreds of strangers writing excitedly about you. And even if it's not that eloquent — and it's not — it can still really make your day. So, this possibility of a new type of global recognition, I think, is driving huge amounts of effort. And it's important to note that it's not just the stars who are benefiting: because you can see the best, everyone can learn. Also, the system is self-fueling. It's the crowd that shines the light and fuels the desire, but the light and desire are a lethal one-two combination that attract new people to the crowd. So, this is a model that pretty much any organization could use to try and nurture its own cycle of crowd-accelerated innovation. Invite the crowd, let in the light, dial up the desire. And the hardest part about that is probably the light, because it means you have to open up, you have to show your stuff to the world. It's by giving away what you think is your deepest secret that maybe millions of people are empowered to help improve it. And, very happily, there's one class of people who really can't make use of this tool. The dark side of the web is allergic to the light. I don't think we're going to see terrorists, for example, publishing their plans online and saying to the world, ""Please, could you help us to actually make them work this time?"" But you can publish your stuff online. And if you can get that wheel to turn, look out. So, at TED, we've become a little obsessed with this idea of openness. In fact, my colleague, June Cohen, has taken to calling it ""radical openness,"" because it works for us each time. We opened up our talks to the world, and suddenly there are millions of people out there helping spread our speakers' ideas, and thereby making it easier for us to recruit and motivate the next generation of speakers. By opening up our translation program, thousands of heroic volunteers — some of them watching online right now, and thank you! — have translated our talks into more than 70 languages, thereby tripling our viewership in non-English-speaking countries. By giving away our TEDx brand, we suddenly have a thousand-plus live experiments in the art of spreading ideas. And these organizers, they're seeing each other, they're learning from each other. We are learning from them. We're getting great talks back from them. The wheel is turning. Okay, step back a minute. I mean, it's really not news for me to tell you that innovation emerges out of groups. You know, we've heard that this week — this romantic notion of the lone genius with the ""eureka!"" moment that changes the world is misleading. Even he said that, and he would know. We're a social species. We spark off each other. It's also not news to say that the Internet has accelerated innovation. For the past 15 years, powerful communities have been connecting online, sparking off each other. If you take programmers, you know, the whole open-source movement is a fantastic instance of crowd-accelerated innovation. But what's key here is, the reason these groups have been able to connect is because their work output is of the type that can be easily shared digitally — a picture, a music file, software. And that's why what I'm excited about, and what I think is under-reported, is the significance of the rise of online video. This is the technology that's going to allow the rest of the world's talents to be shared digitally, thereby launching a whole new cycle of crowd-accelerated innovation. The first few years of the web were pretty much video-free, for this reason: video files are huge; the web couldn't handle them. But in the last 10 years, bandwidth has exploded a hundredfold. Suddenly, here we are. Humanity watches 80 million hours of YouTube every day. Cisco actually estimates that, within four years, more than 90 percent of the web's data will be video. If it's all puppies, porn and piracy, we're doomed. I don't think it will be. Video is high-bandwidth for a reason. It packs a huge amount of data, and our brains are uniquely wired to decode it. Here, let me introduce you to Sam Haber. He's a unicyclist. Before YouTube, there was no way for him to discover his sport's true potential, because you can't communicate this stuff in words, right? But looking at video clips posted by strangers, a world of possibility opens up for him. Suddenly, he starts to emulate and then to innovate. And a global community of unicyclists discover each other online, inspire each other to greatness. And there are thousands of other examples of this happening — of video-driven evolution of skills, ranging from the physical to the artful. And I have to tell you, as a former publisher of hobbyist magazines, I find this strangely beautiful. I mean, there's a lot of passion right here on this screen. But if Rube Goldberg machines and video poetry aren't quite your cup of tea, how about this. Jove is a website that was founded to encourage scientists to publish their peer-reviewed research on video. There's a problem with a traditional scientific paper. It can take months for a scientist in another lab to figure out how to replicate the experiments that are described in print. Here's one such frustrated scientist, Moshe Pritsker, the founder of Jove. He told me that the world is wasting billions of dollars on this. But look at this video. I mean, look: if you can show instead of just describing, that problem goes away. So it's not far-fetched to say that, at some point, online video is going to dramatically accelerate scientific advance. Here's another example that's close to our hearts at TED, where video is sometimes more powerful than print — the sharing of an idea. Why do people like watching TEDTalks? All those ideas are already out there in print. It's actually faster to read than to view. Why would someone bother? Well, so, there's some showing as well as telling. But even leaving the screen out of it, there's still a lot more being transferred than just words. And in that non-verbal portion, there's some serious magic. Somewhere hidden in the physical gestures, the vocal cadence, the facial expressions, the eye contact, the passion, the kind of awkward, British body language, the sense of how the audience are reacting, there are hundreds of subconscious clues that go to how well you will understand, and whether you're inspired — light, if you like, and desire. Incredibly, all of this can be communicated on just a few square inches of a screen. Reading and writing are actually relatively recent inventions. Face-to-face communication has been fine-tuned by millions of years of evolution. That's what's made it into this mysterious, powerful thing it is. Someone speaks, there's resonance in all these receiving brains, the whole group acts together. I mean, this is the connective tissue of the human superorganism in action. It's probably driven our culture for millennia. 500 years ago, it ran into a competitor with a lethal advantage. It's right here. Print scaled. The world's ambitious innovators and influencers now could get their ideas to spread far and wide, and so the art of the spoken word pretty much withered on the vine. But now, in the blink of an eye, the game has changed again. It's not too much to say that what Gutenberg did for writing, online video can now do for face-to-face communication. So, that primal medium, which your brain is exquisitely wired for ... that just went global. Now, this is big. We may have to reinvent an ancient art form. I mean, today, one person speaking can be seen by millions, shedding bright light on potent ideas, creating intense desire for learning and to respond — and in his case, intense desire to laugh. For the first time in human history, talented students don't have to have their potential and their dreams written out of history by lousy teachers. They can sit two feet in front of the world's finest. Now, TED is just a small part of this. I mean, the world's universities are opening up their curricula. Thousands of individuals and organizations are sharing their knowledge and data online. Thousands of people are figuring out new ways to learn and, crucially, to respond, completing the cycle. And so, as we've thought about this, you know, it's become clear to us what the next stage of TED's evolution has to be. TEDTalks can't be a one-way process, one-to-many. Our future is many-to-many. So, we're dreaming of ways to make it easier for you, the global TED community, to respond to speakers, to contribute your own ideas, maybe even your own TEDTalks, and to help shine a light on the very best of what's out there. Because, if we can bubble up the very best from a vastly larger pool, this wheel turns. Now, is it possible to imagine a similar process to this, happening to global education overall? I mean, does it have to be this painful, top-down process? Why not a self-fueling cycle in which we all can participate? It's the participation age, right? Schools can't be silos. We can't stop learning at age 21. What if, in the coming crowd of nine billion ... what if that crowd could learn enough to be net contributors, instead of net plunderers? That changes everything, right? I mean, that would take more teachers than we've ever had. But the good news is they are out there. They're in the crowd, and the crowd is switching on lights, and we can see them for the first time, not as an undifferentiated mass of strangers, but as individuals we can learn from. Who's the teacher? You're the teacher. You're part of the crowd that may be about to launch the biggest learning cycle in human history, a cycle capable of carrying all of us to a smarter, wiser, more beautiful place. Here's a group of kids in a village in Pakistan near where I grew up. Within five years, each of these kids is going to have access to a cellphone capable of full-on web video and capable of uploading video to the web. I mean, is it crazy to think that this girl, in the back, at the right, in 15 years, might be sharing the idea that keeps the world beautiful for your grandchildren? It's not crazy; it's actually happening right now. I want to introduce you to a good friend of TED who just happens to live in Africa's biggest shantytown. (Video) Christopher Makau: Hi. My name is Christopher Makau. I'm one of the organizers of TEDxKibera. There are so many good things which are happening right here in Kibera. There's a self-help group. They turned a trash place into a garden. The same spot, it was a crime spot where people were being robbed. They used the same trash to form green manure. The same trash site is feeding more than 30 families. We have our own film school. They are using Flip cameras to record, edit, and reporting to their own channel, Kibera TV. Because of a scarcity of land, we are using the sacks to grow vegetables, and also [we're] able to save on the cost of living. Change happens when we see things in a different way. Today, I see Kibera in a different way. My message to TEDGlobal and the entire world is: Kibera is a hotbed of innovation and ideas. (Applause) CA: You know what? I bet Chris has always been an inspiring guy. What's new — and it's huge — is that, for the first time, we get to see him, and he can see us. Right now, Chris and Kevin and Dennis and Dickson and their friends are watching us, in Nairobi, right now. Guys, we've learned from you today. Thank you. And thank you. (Applause)"	"如果不出意外，至少我已發現我們加諸於我們演講人身上的東西:手心出汗、無法入睡的夜晚對時鐘一種完全不自然的恐懼我的意思是，這挺殘酷的 我也對這有點緊張九億人來到我們這現在，最樂觀的夢想會被全球的人口增長踏扁但最近，我對那巨大人群有了感到不同的想法和興趣因為在這些情況中他們可以做些真正有意思的事我想這是一個現象任何組織或個人都可以進入它確實影響了我們思考關於 TED 未來的方式、或這整個世界的未來 所以，讓我們一起探索吧故事開始於一個人一個孩子，行為有點古怪的孩子這孩子 Lil Demon 在網路上躥紅他正在秀一些舞技歷史上，大概從來沒有一個六歲小孩可以做出這些動作吧他是怎麼學會的？什麽樣的動力使他必須花上幾百個小時練成這樣?這裡有個線索 （影片）Lil Demon: ♫ Step your game up. Oh. Oh. ♫♫ Step your game up. Oh. Oh. ♫ Chris Anderson: 所以，是這個人寄給我的電影工作者朱浩偉 (Jonathan Chu)他告訴我，那一刻他明白了網際網路正在促使舞蹈演化這是二月時他在 TED 所說的本質上舞者在網上彼此較量，讓自己變得更好發明新的難以置信的舞技甚至連六歲的兒童都加入就像革命於是 John 有個絕妙的想法他跑去徵求在 YouTube 上最最傑出的舞者成立這個舞蹈團隊 —""超舞聯盟"" (The League of Extraordinary Dancers, the LXD)我指的是，這些孩子是網絡教出來的但他們竟然好到可以參加今年的奧斯卡演出這是在二月時的 TED他們的天才熱情實在教人屏息 所以，這個關於舞蹈的演化故事似乎有點怪異又親切你們知道嗎，在 TEDTalks 剛開始不久我們注意到講者開始花許多時間準備後來促成一些非比尋常的演說，比如這兩個準備許多個月濃縮於短短 18 分鐘殘酷地為下一代的演說者提高標準我們這一星期見到了成效雖然不大像 J.J. 和 Jill在演說中的總結: 「舞力全開吧！」但他們應該也使盡了全力所以，在這兩個例子中你們見到進步的循環很明顯地，是由於人們觀看網路影片使然 這裡發生了什麽事?嗯，我想最近頻繁發生的現象，我們可以稱之為「群眾加速的創新」只要擁有三種東西，你就可以使它轉動你們可以把它們想像為三個巨大轉輪一旦啟動，輪子便開始旋轉而你所需的第一件東西是......人群分享共同利益的一群人人群愈大潛在的創新者就愈多那很重要，但事實上，大多數的人群佔有這些其他角色他們正在創造一個使創新得以浮現的生態系統第二個你所需要具備的東西是 光你需要明亮、大家都可見到的空間使那群眾中最傑出的人得以擁有能力因為你可以從中學習學習如何參與其中第三，你需要慾望你知道，創新是困難的工作它是建立於上百小時的研究與訓練少了慾望，什麽都不會發生 現在，這裡有一個例子 — 網路世代前 —機器是這麼運作的舞者在街角 —這是一群人，一小群人但所有人都可以清楚地看見每個人的動作慾望來自於，我猜，來自於社會地位，是吧?最好的舞者趾高氣昂，獲得最好的約會這裡肯定有某些創新發生吧但是，在網路上所有的齒輪扣合在一起舞蹈的社群如今已躍上全球幾百萬個連結多麼令人驚異你仍然可以看到最棒的人的舞技因為人群照亮了他們不是直接透過評論、評分、Email, Facebook, Twitter就是間接地透過觀看的次數透過 Google 連結在 Google 搜尋東西是很容易的當你找到時，你可以近距離反復觀看它而且讀到上百人寫下的評論那是偌大的光 但慾望的成份真正使輪轉動我的意思是，也許你只是電腦有視訊的小孩但如果你可以做什麽超級絕妙的事的話觀看你的群眾就會有如一座擠滿人的巨型體育場會有上百人興奮地寫著你甚至，如果並不是特愛表現的話這仍然可以讓你感到快樂因此，這個全球認可的可能性我想，正促使大量的努力尤其重要的是，並不是只有明星得益:因為，你能看到最好的，每個人都可學習 這個系統也是自發的人群發光閃亮，注入慾望但光芒和慾望是致命的兩組結合它們引來新人，加入群眾所以，這是一個模式任何組織都可藉此試圖豐富它們自己的群眾加速循環邀請人群，注入光芒使慾望運轉這一部份中，最困難之處，大概就是光了因為，那意謂著你必須放開心胸你必須展示你的東西給全世界展示出你認為最深的秘密使上百萬人都被賦予這個能力，幫助彼此進步 而且，快樂的是，有一群階級的人無法使用這項工具網絡黑暗的一面對光照過敏比如說，我不認為我們可以看到恐怖份子，把他們的計劃公佈在網上，然後向全世界說:「請你幫幫我們搞定這些?」 但你可以在網上發佈自己的東西只要你可以使輪子轉動看看！ 所以在 TED我們變得有點執迷於開放性的想法事實上，我的同事 June Cohen 將它稱為「基進開放性(radical openness)」因為對我們來說，每次都有用我們將演說開放給全世界突然間，上百萬的人出現了幫助傳播講者的思維意念於是也使我們變得較易於號召、鼓舞下一代的演講人透過開放翻譯計劃上千位勇敢的義工 —有些人現在正在網上看著。謝謝你們!將我們的演說譯成七十多種語言使我們在非英語系國家的點閱率成長三倍藉由授予我們的 TEDx 品牌我們突然擁有了上千個以宣傳想法為概念出發的現場實驗這些組織者也看得見彼此，向彼此學習我們向他們學習我們反過來從他們那裡得到許多很棒的演說輪子正在轉動著 好吧，退一分鐘我的意思是，這已不是新鮮事了:創新發生於團體你們知道，我們在這星期已聽到 —一個孤獨天才的浪漫概念他說，那改變世界的「發現」時刻是錯誤的就算他這麼說，他也會知道我們是社群的物種我們引領彼此網絡加速創新也早已不是新聞過去十五年來強大的社群已連結上網互相領導對方拿程式設計師來說吧你們知道，整個開放原始碼運動就是一個群眾加速創新的絕佳例子但關鍵之處在於這些團體能夠連結在一起是因為他們的工作成果可以輕易地數位化分享照片、音樂檔案、以及軟體那便是我爲什麽會感到興奮的原因而我認為，這一波線上影片出現的重要性被低估了 這是一個能夠數位化地分享全世界天才稟賦的一項新科技它正在開啟可一個全新的群眾加速創新的循環網絡剛開始的最初幾年沒有什麽線上影片原因是: 影片檔太大了，網絡無法處理但最近十年來頻寬擴大百倍突然間，我們就在這了在 YouTube 上，每天每小時有八千萬人觀看影片Cisco 實際上估計，四年內超過 90% 的網絡內容將是影片如果全是小狗、色情、和盜版作品的話我們就完了我不認為會這樣影片佔據大量頻寬是有原因的它包含大量的數據而我們的頭腦擁有獨特的解碼能力 讓我在這裡向各位介紹 Sam Haber他是個單輪車騎士在 YouTube 風行以前他無法發現他的運動的真正潛力畢竟你無法以文字表達這玩意，不是嗎?然而，在看到陌生人上傳的影片後一個可能性世界向他敞開了突然間，他開始模仿和再創新一個單輪騎士的全球社群在網上發現了彼此互相鼓勵，向前邁進有其它上千個例子發生著 —透過影片鼓舞的技術演化從身體到技巧我必須告訴你們作為一個興趣雜誌的前出版人我發覺這有著異樣的魅力在這銀幕中藏有許多熱情 但假使 Rube Goldberg 的機器與影像詩不和你口味的話不如試試這個Jove 是一個爲了鼓勵科學家在網路影片上發表他們研究的網站傳統的科學論文有個問題:科學家通常得在實驗室花上幾個月才能搞清楚如何複製出在紙本論文中所描述的實驗這裡有一個對此感到相當沮喪的科學家Jove 的創辦人 Moshe Pritsker他告訴我，這世界浪費上百萬美元在這但看看這影片看看: 如果你可以秀出而非描述的話問題便可解決了因此，這並非遙不可及的:某種程度上線上影片將戲劇性地加速科學發展 這裡是另一個例子它接近我們 TED 的中心在那，有時影片比印刷品還有力 —分享觀念為什麽人們喜歡看 TEDTalks 呢?這些想法其實都有書籍出版了事實上，閱讀比觀看還快為何有人還要看呢?我想，吸引人的是又說又演的部份撇開螢幕不談仍然有許多內容，是不止單文字轉化的在言語無法表達的部分，含有非比尋常的魔術隱藏於身體姿態之下那抑揚頓挫的聲音、種種面部表情、眼神接觸、熱情、英國人(指他自己)尷尬的肢體動作觀眾反應的狀況有上百個潛意識的線索涉及了你所瞭解的程度以及你被激勵與否 —光、與慾望難以置信的是，這一切都可以透過一方英寸的螢幕進行溝通 閱讀與寫作事實上相對說來，是一種較晚近的發明面對面的溝通已經過百萬年的演化調適這就是使它變得神秘又有力量的東西有人說在這些吸收中的腦中會產生共鳴整個團體一起行動這是連結人類超個體行動的組織它有可能把我們的文明向前推進幾千年五百年前，它曾遭遇一個具有致命優勢的競爭對手就在這印刷世上最有企圖心的創新者和有影響力的人都可以使他們的想法傳播到遼遠的地方因此，口語的藝術曾經如同凋萎的薔薇但現在，一眨眼遊戲又改變了用不著多說古騰堡(印刷術發明人)是如何推展寫作線上影片現在可以作面對面的溝通所以，這原始的中介你大腦精心的設置....才剛剛走向全球 現在，這效應很大我們也許必須重新發明一種古老的藝術形式今天，一個人說話可以被上百萬人看到照亮有影響力的點子創造強烈的慾望爲了學習與回應 —在他的演講中，有強烈的慾望大笑人類歷史上第一次天賦異稟的學生不再需要由差勁的老師湮滅他們的潛質與夢想他們可以直接面對世上最有才華的人 現在，TED 只是這小小的一部份世界上的大學正開放他們的課程上千名個人與組織機構在網上分享數據與知識重要的是，上千人發現了全新的學習方式以回應、完成這一循環因此，如同我們所想的這使我們明白了TED 演化的下一步TEDTalks 不能是單項的過程，不能是單一對許多我們的未來是 眾人對眾人所以，我們夢想著使它更方便於，在全球 TED 社群回應演講人以貢獻你自己的想法也許甚至是你自己的 TEDTalks幫助照亮那最出色的因為，如果我們能夠從廣大的人群中鼓動那最好最出色的人這個輪子就會運轉 現在，我們是否可以想像一個類似的過程正發生於全球的整體教育上?我的意思是，難道教育一定得是痛苦的、由上而下的過程嗎?為何不可以自行循環我們從而也可以加入其中?這是一個參與的時代，可不是?學校不可以是筒倉我們不能到了21歲便停止學習設若，有九十億的人群來到，會怎麼樣呢?倘若那群眾學習到某種程度可以成為貢獻者而非竊盜者，那又將是怎麼一回事呢?那會改變所有事，不是嗎?那將需要更多的老師但好消息是，他們就在那他們就在人群裡人群轉變為光我們可以首度見到他們而不再是一團同性質的陌生群眾而是 我們可以向他學習的許多個人誰是老師呢?你就是老師你就是人群的一部份也許快要可以展開人類歷史上最大的學習循環了一個能夠帶領我們所有人的循環變得更聰明、更有智慧、更多美麗的地方 這是一群在巴基斯坦村落中的小孩接近我長大的地方五年內，每一個小孩都可以透過手機進入完整的網絡視訊能夠上傳影片到網絡上想想這多瘋狂啊? 在右後方的這女孩，15年後也許就可以分享想法，使你子孫的世界變得更好一點也不瘋狂，事實上此刻它正在發生 我想向各位介紹 TED 的一個好朋友他住在非洲最大的貧民窟(肯亞的Kibera) (影片) 嗨，我叫 Christopher Makau我是 TEDxKibera 的組織人之一現在 Kibera，有些好事正發生有個自助團體他們把垃圾場變成花園這個地方以前曾是犯罪據點人們在這裡遭搶他們把同樣的垃圾打造成綠肥同樣的垃圾場現在可以餵養三十個家庭我們有自己的電影學校他們用攝影機紀錄、剪接、並報導他們的生活Kibera TV由於缺乏土地資源我們用袋子種菜同時，我們也可以降低生活成本我們以不同角度看待事物時，轉變就會發生今天，我以不同的角度看待 Kibera我給 TEDGlobal和全世界的訊息是:Kibera 是個充滿創新與想法的溫床 (掌聲) 你們知道嗎?我打賭 Chris 一直都是個激勵人心的傢伙新消息是 — 這是個大消息 —這是第一次我們能看到他而且他能看到我們現在，Chris、Kevin、Dennis、Dickson、與他們的朋友都在看著我們，在奈洛比 (肯亞首都)，就是現在各位今天，我們從你們身上學到許多謝謝 謝謝你們 (掌聲)"
