Talk	en	zh-tw
christien_meindertsma_on_pig_05049	"Hello. I would like to start my talk with actually two questions, and the first one is: How many people here actually eat pig meat? Please raise your hand — oh, that's a lot. And how many people have actually seen a live pig producing this meat? In the last year? In the Netherlands — where I come from — you actually never see a pig, which is really strange, because, on a population of 16 million people, we have 12 million pigs. And well, of course, the Dutch can't eat all these pigs. They eat about one-third, and the rest is exported to all kinds of countries in Europe and the rest of the world. A lot goes to the U.K., Germany. And what I was curious about — because historically, the whole pig would be used up until the last bit so nothing would be wasted — and I was curious to find out if this was actually still the case. And I spent about three years researching. And I followed this one pig with number ""05049,"" all the way up until the end and to what products it's made of. And in these years, I met all kinds people like, for instance, farmers and butchers, which seems logical. But I also met aluminum mold makers, ammunition producers and all kinds of people. And what was striking to me is that the farmers actually had no clue what was made of their pigs, but the consumers — as in us — had also no idea of the pigs being in all these products. So what I did is, I took all this research and I made it into a — well, basically it's a product catalog of this one pig, and it carries a duplicate of his ear tag on the back. And it consists of seven chapters — the chapters are skin, bones, meat, internal organs, blood, fat and miscellaneous. (Laughter) In total, they weigh 103.7 kilograms. And to show you how often you actually meet part of this pig in a regular day, I want to show you some images of the book. You probably start the day with a shower. So, in soap, fatty acids made from boiling pork bone fat are used as a hardening agent, but also for giving it a pearl-like effect. Then if you look around you in the bathroom, you see lots more products like shampoo, conditioner, anti-wrinkle cream, body lotion, but also toothpaste. Then, so, before breakfast, you've already met the pig so many times. Then, at breakfast, the pig that I followed, the hairs off the pig or proteins from the hairs off the pig were used as an improver of dough. (Laughter) Well, that's what the producer says: it's ""improving the dough, of course."" In low-fat butter, or actually in many low-fat products, when you take the fat out, you actually take the taste and the texture out. So what they do is they put gelatin back in, in order to retain the texture. Well, when you're off to work, under the road or under the buildings that you see, there might very well be cellular concrete, which is a very light kind of concrete that's actually got proteins from bones inside and it's also fully reusable. In the train brakes — at least in the German train brakes — there's this part of the brake that's made of bone ash. And in cheesecake and all kinds of desserts, like chocolate mousse, tiramisu, vanilla pudding, everything that's cooled in the supermarket, there's gelatin to make it look good. Fine bone china — this is a real classic. Of course, the bone in fine-bone china gives it its translucency and also its strength, in order to make these really fine shapes, like this deer. In interior decorating, the pig's actually quite there. It's used in paint for the texture, but also for the glossiness. In sandpaper, bone glue is actually the glue between the sand and the paper. And then in paintbrushes, hairs are used because, apparently, they're very suitable for making paintbrushes because of their hard-wearing nature. I was not planning on showing you any meat because, of course, half the book's meat and you probably all know what meats they are. But I didn't want you to miss out on this one, because this, well, it's called ""portion-controlled meat cuts."" And this is actually sold in the frozen area of the supermarket. And what it is — it's actually steak. So, this is sold as cow, but what happens when you slaughter a cow — at least in industrial factory farming — they have all these little bits of steak left that they can't actually sell as steak, so what they do is they glue them all together with fibrin from pig blood into this really large sausage, then freeze the sausage, cut it in little slices and sell those as steak again. And this also actually happens with tuna and scallops. So, with the steak, you might drink a beer. In the brewing process, there's lots of cloudy elements in the beer, so to get rid of these cloudy elements, what some companies do is they pour the beer through a sort of gelatin sieve in order to get rid of that cloudiness. This actually also goes for wine as well as fruit juice. There's actually a company in Greece that produces these cigarettes that actually contain hemoglobin from pigs in the filter. And according to them, this creates an artificial lung in the filter. (Laughter) So, this is actually a healthier cigarette. (Laughter) Injectable collagen — or, since the '70s, collagen from pigs — has been used for injecting into wrinkles. And the reason for this is that pigs are actually quite close to human beings, so the collagen is as well. Well, this must be the strangest thing I found. This is a bullet coming from a very large ammunition company in the United States. And while I was making the book, I contacted all the producers of products because I wanted them to send me the real samples and the real specimens. So I sent this company an email saying, ""Hello. I'm Christien. I'm doing this research. And can you send me a bullet?"" (Laughter) And well, I didn't expect them to even answer my email. But they answered and they said, ""Why, thank you for your email. What an interesting story. Are you in anyway related to the Dutch government?"" I thought that was really weird, as if the Dutch government sends emails to anyone. (Laughter) So, the most beautiful thing I found — at least what I think is the most beautiful — in the book, is this heart valve. It's actually a very low-tech and very high-tech product at the same time. The low-tech bit is that it's literally a pig's heart valve mounted in the high-tech bit, which is a memory metal casing. And what happens is this can be implanted into a human heart without open heart surgery. And once it's in the right spot, they remove the outer shell, and the heart valve, well, it gets this shape and at that moment it starts beating, instantly. It's really a sort of magical moment. So this is actually a Dutch company, so I called them up, and I asked, ""Can I borrow a heart valve from you?"" And the makers of this thing were really enthusiastic. So they were like, ""Okay, we'll put it in a jar for you with formalin, and you can borrow it."" Great — and then I didn't hear from them for weeks, so I called, and I asked, ""What's going on with the heart valve?"" And they said, ""Well the director of the company decided not to let you borrow this heart valve, because want his product to be associated with pigs."" (Laughter) Well, the last product from the book that I'm showing you is renewable energy — actually, to show that my first question, if pigs are still used up until the last bit, was still true. Well it is, because everything that can't be used for anything else is made into a fuel that can be used as renewable energy source. In total, I found 185 products. And what they showed me is that, well, firstly, it's at least to say odd that we don't treat these pigs as absolute kings and queens. And the second, is that we actually don't have a clue of what all these products that surround us are made of. And you might think I'm very fond of pigs, but actually — well, I am a little bit — but I'm more fond of raw materials in general. And I think that, in order to take better care of what's behind our products — so, the livestock, the crops, the plants, the non-renewable materials, but also the people that produce these products — the first step would actually be to know that they are there. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"嗨，在進入主題之前，我想先問兩個問題，第一個是：在座有多少人吃豬肉？請舉手。噢，不少呢。那在座有多少人在去年看過活生生的豬？ 在荷蘭，我的祖國，你根本看不到豬。這是很奇怪的因為我們人口1600萬，有1200萬隻豬。當然荷蘭人吃不了這麼多豬。他們大約吃三分之一，其他的都出口到歐洲各國和世界各地。很多賣到英國、德國。 我好奇的是在過去，豬的身體各部位都會被使用到一丁點都不浪費。我想知道現在是否還是如此。我花了約三年的時間研究追隨一隻豬編號「05049」從頭到尾也跟隨以牠製出的產品。在這三年，我遇上各式各樣的人，譬如養豬的和屠夫，這挺合理的。但我也結識了鋁模製造業者，軍火製造業者和各式各樣的人。我訝異的是養豬的完全不知道他們的豬被拿去做成什麼，而我們這些消費者也都不知道這麼多產品的成份裡都含有豬。 所以我做了一件事，我把整個研究整理成一份這隻豬的產品目錄，然後再書背黏上一模一樣的耳標。裡面一共有七章。分別是皮膚、骨頭、肉、內臟、血、脂肪和其他。（笑聲）全部一共重103.7公斤。為了讓各位知道你們每天到底有多常用到豬，我想給你們看一些書裡的圖。 你們每天做的第一件事可能是洗澡。而肥皂裡的脂肪酸就來自沸騰而出的豬骨脂它用做硬化劑，同時給它一種類似珍珠的質感。再來，你們如果環視浴室，可以看見許多產品諸如洗髮精、護髮乳除皺霜、身體乳液、還有牙膏。所以光是早餐前你們就和這隻豬接觸了這麼多次。接著吃早餐的時候還是有豬，豬毛，或者說從豬毛提煉出的蛋白質用做麵團的""優化劑""。（笑聲）這就是製造商說的：「它優化了。」你們當然都了解的。低脂奶油，其實很多低脂產品，把脂肪抽出，就等於也抽掉了味道和口感。所以他們把動物膠放回去好維持口感。 接著你在上班的路上，可以看到馬路和建築物底下可能鋪著微孔混凝土，它非常輕其中也含有從骨骼提取的蛋白質，而且這也完全可以回收利用。火車的煞車，至少是德國的火車煞車，其中有一部分是以骨灰做成的。還有在起士蛋糕和各種甜點，像巧克力慕絲、提拉米蘇、香草布丁所有在超市裡冷藏的都含有明膠，好讓它美觀。精緻骨瓷，這是個經典。當然，精緻骨瓷裡的骨粉讓它呈現半透明卻又強韌。才可以做出這些美麗的形狀，好比這隻鹿。 室內裝潢也少不了豬。它賦予油漆質感，和光澤。砂紙裡含有骨膠它就是砂和紙中間的膠。還有，油漆刷的毛也來自豬，顯然它很適合做刷子，因為夠耐用。 我沒打算給你們看肉，因為這書有一半都跟肉有關，你們大概也都知道，自己吃得是什麼肉。但我想跟大家介紹的是這個它叫「份量控制肉塊」。可以在超級市場的冷凍區買到。它其實是牛排。是以牛肉的名稱出售，但是在工業養殖場宰牛的時候，最後都會剩下小小塊的牛肉也沒辦法當成牛排賣，所以他們乾脆把碎塊黏起來用的是豬血裡的纖維蛋白做成大型香腸，再把它冷凍，切片然後再把他們當牛排賣出。鮪魚和干貝也是一樣。吃牛排，你可能會配啤酒。釀造過程中啤酒會產生很多混濁的物質，為了去除這些雜質，有些公司採取的方式是將它倒入一種明膠過濾網來去除雜質。葡萄酒和果汁也採用同樣的流程 希臘有一家公司生產一種香煙，濾嘴含有豬的血紅素。依照他們的說法，這讓濾嘴成為人工肺。（笑聲）所以這是比較健康的香煙。（笑聲）注射式膠原，70年代後稱為「豬的膠原」用來注射到皺紋裡。這是因為豬和人類蠻相近的，膠原也一樣。這個大概是我找到最詭異的東西。這是顆子彈美國一家很大的軍火公司生產的。 而我在寫這本書時，我聯繫了所有產品的製造商，因為我希望他們給我寄些實物樣品和標本。於是我寄了電郵給這家公司寫著：「您好，我是克莉絲丁。我在做一個研究。您是否能寄一顆子彈給我？」（笑聲）我並不期待他們會回信。但他們回了，信裡寫著：「謝謝您的電郵。多麼有趣的故事。請問您和荷蘭官方有什麼關係嗎？」我感到詫異，荷蘭政府會寄電郵才奇怪。 （笑聲） 我找到最美麗的東西至少在我心目中最漂亮的，是心臟辦膜。這東西既低科技又高科技。說低科技是因為，這實質上就是豬的心臟辦膜鑲嵌上一個高科技玩意：記憶金屬套管。然後它可以植入人的心臟不用開心臟手術。一旦放到了正確的位置，他們就移除外殼，心臟辦膜就變成這形狀，那一刻開始心臟馬上就跳動了。那真的是神奇的一刻。這是家荷蘭公司。我打電話給他們問說：「我可不可以跟你們借一個心臟辦膜？」而那些製作的人充滿熱情。他們說：「好阿，我們把它放進裝有福馬林的罐子裡，借給妳。」好極了。但接下來的幾星期，都沒有回音，所以我又打去問說：「心臟辦膜發生了什麼事嗎？」他們說：「公司的主管決定不借妳心臟辦膜，因為他不要公司的產品與豬有關聯。」 （笑聲） 我要給你們看的最後一樣產品是再生能源事實上它可以證明我最初提的問題，豬是否會被完全利用。沒錯。因為只要是用不到的東西都拿來當做燃料可以作為再生能源。 我總共找到185樣產品。從中得到的結論是第一，奇怪的很我們並不把豬當做國王和皇后來對待。第二，我們其實真的不知道身邊有這麼多產品是由什麼做出的。 你們可能覺得我對豬情有獨鍾，可能真有一點但我更喜歡的是各式各樣的原料。而且我認為，為了讓我們產品的來源能獲得更好的照顧－比如家畜、榖物、植物不可回收的材料、還有製造這些產品的人們等－不可或缺的第一步，是意識到他們的存在。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
