Talk	en	zh-tw
christopher_deam_restyles_the_airstream	"I was asked by Wilsonart International, a plastic laminate company, which is the largest plastic laminate company in the world — they asked me to design a trade show booth for exhibition at the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in New York, in 2000. So looking at their three main markets for their product which were basically transportation design, interiors and furniture, we came up with the solution of taking an old Airstream trailer and gutting it, and trying to portray laminate, and a trailer, in kind of a fresh, new contemporary look. When this trailer showed up at my shop in Berkeley, I'd actually never stepped foot in an Airstream trailer, or any other trailer. So I can be somebody that can look at this in a totally fresh perspective and see if I can optimize it in its most idealistic fashion. I decided I had to do some research and really figure out what had gone wrong somewhere along the history of Airstream. What I discovered in these interiors is that there was a disconnect between the exterior shell and the interior architecture of the pieces. In that the shell was originally conceived as a lightweight, modern, futuristic, high-tech pod for hurtling down the freeway, and the interiors were completely out of sync with that. In fact it appeared like they referenced a mountain cabin. That seemed really like a crisis to me, that they had never been able to develop a vocabulary about escape, and about travel, and modernity in this trailer that was consistent with the shell. We really needed to do some archeology in the trailer itself to figure out what's authentic in an Airstream trailer, and what feels like it has true purpose and utility. We stripped out all the vinyl and zolatone paint that was covering up this just fantastic aluminum shell. We took off all the visible hardware and trim that was kind of doing the country cabin thing. I literally drew on the walls of the trailer, mocked it up in cardboard, we'd come in and cut, decide things were wrong, pull it out, put it back in. The main goal was to smooth out the interior, and begin to speak about motion, and mobility, and independence. The biggest difficulty on one of these trailers is that when you're designing there's actually no logical place to stop and start materials because of the continuous form of the trailer. There's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together, where you can change materials and shapes. So that became a challenge. Compounding that, the material of choice, laminate, that I was trying to highlight, only bends in two dimensions. It's a compound curve interior. What I had to devise was a way of fooling the eye into believing that all these panels are curved with the shell. What I came up with was a series of second skins that basically float over the aluminum shell. And what I was trying to do there was direct your eye in the space, so that you would perceive the geometry in a different way, and that the casework wouldn't break up the space. They also gave us a way to run power and rewire the trailer without tearing out the skin, so they function as an electrical chase. That's the trailer, pretty much finished. That trailer led to another commission, to participate in whats called Tokyo Designers Block. Its a week of furniture design events in Tokyo, in October. Teruo Kurosaki, who owns a furniture company called Idee, he asked me to ship him two trailers to Tokyo. He said one he would like to make a real trailer, functioning, and we would sell that one. Trailer number two, you have a blank slate, you can to anything you want. We came up with a fantasy scenario of a DJ traveling around the States, that would collect records and go on tours. This trailer housed two turntables, mixer, wet bar, fridge, integrated sound system. It's got a huge couch, fits quite a few people, and basically we'd had a great time with this. And so in this trailer I took it upon myself to think about travel, and escape, in an idiosyncratic sense. A lot of these ideas migrated into the production trailers for Airstream. This brings us up to the time that I started consulting to Airstream. They came to me and said, ""Well, what can we do to freshen this thing up? And do you think kids, you know, skateboarders, surfers, rock climbers, would use these things?"" And I said, ""Well, not in that interior."" (Laughter) Anyway, I went out to Airstream about six times during the process of building this prototype, and it's called the Bambi prototype. I thought, ""Finally, oh yeah great, big company, I'm gonna work with somebody with money for tooling and molding."" And I walked in their prototype facility, and it's exactly like my shop, only bigger — same tools, same things. So the problem became — and they set this dilemma to me — that you have to design the interior using only our existing technology, and there's no money for tooling or molding. The trailers themselves are actually hand-built. All the casework is hand-scribed in, uniquely, so you can't just cut 100 parts for 100 trailers, you have to cut them big, and every single one is hand-fit. They didn't want to go to a componentized system. And there it is, that's the Bambi 16. (Applause)"	威盛納跨國企業是一個塑膠積層板公司,規模算全球最大的。他們請我設計一個貿易展的攤位，好在紐約的2000年國際現代家具展中展出。 藉著觀察他們的三個主要市場，得知他們的產品基本上包括交通工具的設計，室內設計和家具，我們想出的對策就是把一輛老舊的「氣流」旅用拖車的內裝拆除，然後再將積層板和旅用拖車結合，給它一個新穎、現代化的面貌。在這輛旅用拖車出現在我柏克萊的店之前，我根本連一步都沒踏進過什麼「氣流」旅用拖車，或任何一種拖車。所以我有條件用客觀的眼光，從全新的角度來審視，看能否以最理想的方式來美化它。我決定我必須做一點研究，我想找出，在整個「氣流」史中，究竟是哪一點出了差錯。我從它們的內裝看出「氣流」外殼的設計與內部裝潢不搭調。外殼給人的印象是既輕巧，又現代化，且具未來感的高科技分離艙，適合在高速公路上飛馳。但其內裝卻與外殼完全不搭配。說真的內裝看起來像是參照了山上小木屋的格局。 這對我來說簡直就是災難。他們居然一直都沒有發展出足以表達出走、旅行和現代感的內裝來搭配它的外殼。我們得用考古學的方法來研究，找出正統的「氣流」旅用拖車所代表的意涵，以及它實質的功能與與用途。我們剝除所有的聚氯乙稀(PVC)和油漆，因為它遮蓋了它原本令人驚豔的鋁製外殼。我們拆除所有可見的硬體，也拆掉了那些鄉村小木屋裡才有的東西。我直接在旅用拖車的牆上打稿，用硬紙板做模型。我們會進來，開始剪，決定哪邊不好；抽出來，再放回去。 主要的目標是重整內裝，讓它傳達出移動性、機動性和獨立性。改造這輛拖車時，最難的是在設計時沒有辦法明確地定義出施工材料的起點和終點。因為旅用拖車一體成形，不是由一般的兩面牆壁和一個天花板組成，無法讓你改變材質和形狀。所以挑戰來了。綜觀以上問題，我們所選定的材料—就是積層板，我想強調的是，它只能往兩個面向彎曲，而拖車的內部是有弧度的。我必須要創造出能騙得過眼睛的技法；讓他們相信所有的壁板，弧度都和外殼相同。 我想到的辦法是使用一連串的第二層外皮，基本上是重疊在鋁殼上。而我這樣做是為了誤導你們的眼睛，讓你們在這個空間中以不同的方式體會幾何概念，而且不會造成空間的切割。這種設計也讓我們可以為拖車供給電力、重裝電線，但不需要剝除外皮。因此他們的作用有如電子暗管。這就是即將完成的旅用拖車。 這輛旅用拖車帶來了另一個任務，就是去參加東京設計師週，那是十月在東京為期一星期的家具設計活動。TERUO KUROSAKI 是Idee這家傢俱公司的負責人，他請我運送兩台旅用拖車到東京。他說他想把其中一輛當成真的旅用拖車使用，而我們可以把另一輛拿來賣。他對第二輛拖車完全沒有想法，你可以對它做任何事。 我們想出了一個幻想的情節:一個DJ環遊美國各地，蒐集唱片並巡迴表演，這輛拖車裡裝設了兩個唱機轉盤，調音裝置、酒吧、冰箱、內建的音響設備。裡面有一張長沙發，坐得下好幾個人。而我們靠這些就能度過快樂的時光。所以在設計這輛旅用拖車時，我依照自己的想法，將出走和旅行的意念設計進去，並帶點優雅的調調。其中很多構想還被目前正在生產的「氣流」拖車所引用。 講到這個，就回想到當時我剛開始當「氣流」的顧問時，他們來找我時說：「我們要怎麼把這個東西翻新呢？你覺得小孩、滑板運動族、衝浪族、攀岩族會想用這東西嗎？」我說：「嗯，如果是這種內裝的話，他們應該不會想用。」（笑聲）總之，我在建構這個拖車原型時，去了「氣流」公司大約六次。我們把這個原型叫做：斑比。我想：「終於啊...太好了，大公司呢！我就要和有錢人合作了，他們可以幫我買些工具和模具。」當我走進他們的原型拖車裡，感覺根本就像是我自己的店，只是比較大而已。同樣的工具，同樣的物品。隨之而來的問題是，他們給我設了一個兩難的處境。你得設計內裝，但只能用我們現有的技術，沒有多餘的錢來買工具或模具。這些旅用拖車其實是手工製作的，所有的內裝都是手工繪製而且獨一無二的，所以不能統一為一百輛拖車裁剪出一百塊材料。你必須一次剪裁出一大塊，然後一個個手工安裝。他們不希望使用制式的零組件系統。而這就是成品，斑比16號。（掌聲）
