Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_domas_the_1s_and_0s_behind_cyber_warfare	This is a lot of ones and zeros. It's what we call binary information. This is how computers talk. It's how they store information. It's how computers think. It's how computers do everything it is that computers do. I'm a cybersecurity researcher, which means my job is to sit down with this information and try to make sense of it, to try to understand what all the ones and zeroes mean. Unfortunately for me, we're not just talking about the ones and zeros I have on the screen here. We're not just talking about a few pages of ones and zeros. We're talking about billions and billions of ones and zeros, more than anyone could possibly comprehend. Now, as exciting as that sounds, when I first started doing cyber — (Laughter) — when I first started doing cyber, I wasn't sure that sifting through ones and zeros was what I wanted to do with the rest of my life, because in my mind, cyber was keeping viruses off of my grandma's computer, it was keeping people's Myspace pages from being hacked, and maybe, maybe on my most glorious day, it was keeping someone's credit card information from being stolen. Those are important things, but that's not how I wanted to spend my life. But after 30 minutes of work as a defense contractor, I soon found out that my idea of cyber was a little bit off. In fact, in terms of national security, keeping viruses off of my grandma's computer was surprisingly low on their priority list. And the reason for that is cyber is so much bigger than any one of those things. Cyber is an integral part of all of our lives, because computers are an integral part of all of our lives, even if you don't own a computer. Computers control everything in your car, from your GPS to your airbags. They control your phone. They're the reason you can call 911 and get someone on the other line. They control our nation's entire infrastructure. They're the reason you have electricity, heat, clean water, food. Computers control our military equipment, everything from missile silos to satellites to nuclear defense networks. All of these things are made possible because of computers, and therefore because of cyber, and when something goes wrong, cyber can make all of these things impossible. But that's where I step in. A big part of my job is defending all of these things, keeping them working, but once in a while, part of my job is to break one of these things, because cyber isn't just about defense, it's also about offense. We're entering an age where we talk about cyberweapons. In fact, so great is the potential for cyber offense that cyber is considered a new domain of warfare. Warfare. It's not necessarily a bad thing. On the one hand, it means we have whole new front on which we need to defend ourselves, but on the other hand, it means we have a whole new way to attack, a whole new way to stop evil people from doing evil things. So let's consider an example of this that's completely theoretical. Suppose a terrorist wants to blow up a building, and he wants to do this again and again in the future. So he doesn't want to be in that building when it explodes. He's going to use a cell phone as a remote detonator. Now, it used to be the only way we had to stop this terrorist was with a hail of bullets and a car chase, but that's not necessarily true anymore. We're entering an age where we can stop him with the press of a button from 1,000 miles away, because whether he knew it or not, as soon as he decided to use his cell phone, he stepped into the realm of cyber. A well-crafted cyber attack could break into his phone, disable the overvoltage protections on his battery, drastically overload the circuit, cause the battery to overheat, and explode. No more phone, no more detonator, maybe no more terrorist, all with the press of a button from a thousand miles away. So how does this work? It all comes back to those ones and zeros. Binary information makes your phone work, and used correctly, it can make your phone explode. So when you start to look at cyber from this perspective, spending your life sifting through binary information starts to seem kind of exciting. But here's the catch: This is hard, really, really hard, and here's why. Think about everything you have on your cell phone. You've got the pictures you've taken. You've got the music you listen to. You've got your contacts list, your email, and probably 500 apps you've never used in your entire life, and behind all of this is the software, the code, that controls your phone, and somewhere, buried inside of that code, is a tiny piece that controls your battery, and that's what I'm really after, but all of this, just a bunch of ones and zeros, and it's all just mixed together. In cyber, we call this finding a needle in a stack of needles, because everything pretty much looks alike. I'm looking for one key piece, but it just blends in with everything else. So let's step back from this theoretical situation of making a terrorist's phone explode, and look at something that actually happened to me. Pretty much no matter what I do, my job always starts with sitting down with a whole bunch of binary information, and I'm always looking for one key piece to do something specific. In this case, I was looking for a very advanced, very high-tech piece of code that I knew I could hack, but it was somewhere buried inside of a billion ones and zeroes. Unfortunately for me, I didn't know quite what I was looking for. I didn't know quite what it would look like, which makes finding it really, really hard. When I have to do that, what I have to do is basically look at various pieces of this binary information, try to decipher each piece, and see if it might be what I'm after. So after a while, I thought I had found the piece I was looking for. I thought maybe this was it. It seemed to be about right, but I couldn't quite tell. I couldn't tell what those ones and zeros represented. So I spent some time trying to put this together, but wasn't having a whole lot of luck, and finally I decided, I'm going to get through this, I'm going to come in on a weekend, and I'm not going to leave until I figure out what this represents. So that's what I did. I came in on a Saturday morning, and about 10 hours in, I sort of had all the pieces to the puzzle. I just didn't know how they fit together. I didn't know what these ones and zeros meant. At the 15-hour mark, I started to get a better picture of what was there, but I had a creeping suspicion that what I was looking at was not at all related to what I was looking for. By 20 hours, the pieces started to come together very slowly — (Laughter) — and I was pretty sure I was going down the wrong path at this point, but I wasn't going to give up. After 30 hours in the lab, I figured out exactly what I was looking at, and I was right, it wasn't what I was looking for. I spent 30 hours piecing together the ones and zeros that formed a picture of a kitten. (Laughter) I wasted 30 hours of my life searching for this kitten that had nothing at all to do with what I was trying to accomplish. So I was frustrated, I was exhausted. After 30 hours in the lab, I probably smelled horrible. But instead of just going home and calling it quits, I took a step back and asked myself, what went wrong here? How could I make such a stupid mistake? I'm really pretty good at this. I do this for a living. So what happened? Well I thought, when you're looking at information at this level, it's so easy to lose track of what you're doing. It's easy to not see the forest through the trees. It's easy to go down the wrong rabbit hole and waste a tremendous amount of time doing the wrong thing. But I had this epiphany. We were looking at the data completely incorrectly since day one. This is how computers think, ones and zeros. It's not how people think, but we've been trying to adapt our minds to think more like computers so that we can understand this information. Instead of trying to make our minds fit the problem, we should have been making the problem fit our minds, because our brains have a tremendous potential for analyzing huge amounts of information, just not like this. So what if we could unlock that potential just by translating this to the right kind of information? So with these ideas in mind, I sprinted out of my basement lab at work to my basement lab at home, which looked pretty much the same. The main difference is, at work, I'm surrounded by cyber materials, and cyber seemed to be the problem in this situation. At home, I'm surrounded by everything else I've ever learned. So I poured through every book I could find, every idea I'd ever encountered, to see how could we translate a problem from one domain to something completely different? The biggest question was, what do we want to translate it to? What do our brains do perfectly naturally that we could exploit? My answer was vision. We have a tremendous capability to analyze visual information. We can combine color gradients, depth cues, all sorts of these different signals into one coherent picture of the world around us. That's incredible. So if we could find a way to translate these binary patterns to visual signals, we could really unlock the power of our brains to process this stuff. So I started looking at the binary information, and I asked myself, what do I do when I first encounter something like this? And the very first thing I want to do, the very first question I want to answer, is what is this? I don't care what it does, how it works. All I want to know is, what is this? And the way I can figure that out is by looking at chunks, sequential chunks of binary information, and I look at the relationships between those chunks. When I gather up enough of these sequences, I begin to get an idea of exactly what this information must be. So let's go back to that blow up the terrorist's phone situation. This is what English text looks like at a binary level. This is what your contacts list would look like if I were examining it. It's really hard to analyze this at this level, but if we take those same binary chunks that I would be trying to find, and instead translate that to a visual representation, translate those relationships, this is what we get. This is what English text looks like from a visual abstraction perspective. All of a sudden, it shows us all the same information that was in the ones and zeros, but show us it in an entirely different way, a way that we can immediately comprehend. We can instantly see all of the patterns here. It takes me seconds to pick out patterns here, but hours, days, to pick them out in ones and zeros. It takes minutes for anybody to learn what these patterns represent here, but years of experience in cyber to learn what those same patterns represent in ones and zeros. So this piece is caused by lower case letters followed by lower case letters inside of that contact list. This is upper case by upper case, upper case by lower case, lower case by upper case. This is caused by spaces. This is caused by carriage returns. We can go through every little detail of the binary information in seconds, as opposed to weeks, months, at this level. This is what an image looks like from your cell phone. But this is what it looks like in a visual abstraction. This is what your music looks like, but here's its visual abstraction. Most importantly for me, this is what the code on your cell phone looks like. This is what I'm after in the end, but this is its visual abstraction. If I can find this, I can't make the phone explode. I could spend weeks trying to find this in ones and zeros, but it takes me seconds to pick out a visual abstraction like this. One of those most remarkable parts about all of this is it gives us an entirely new way to understand new information, stuff that we haven't seen before. So I know what English looks like at a binary level, and I know what its visual abstraction looks like, but I've never seen Russian binary in my entire life. It would take me weeks just to figure out what I was looking at from raw ones and zeros, but because our brains can instantly pick up and recognize these subtle patterns inside of these visual abstractions, we can unconsciously apply those in new situations. So this is what Russian looks like in a visual abstraction. Because I know what one language looks like, I can recognize other languages even when I'm not familiar with them. This is what a photograph looks like, but this is what clip art looks like. This is what the code on your phone looks like, but this is what the code on your computer looks like. Our brains can pick up on these patterns in ways that we never could have from looking at raw ones and zeros. But we've really only scratched the surface of what we can do with this approach. We've only begun to unlock the capabilities of our minds to process visual information. If we take those same concepts and translate them into three dimensions instead, we find entirely new ways of making sense of information. In seconds, we can pick out every pattern here. we can see the cross associated with code. We can see cubes associated with text. We can even pick up the tiniest visual artifacts. Things that would take us weeks, months to find in ones and zeroes, are immediately apparent in some sort of visual abstraction, and as we continue to go through this and throw more and more information at it, what we find is that we're capable of processing billions of ones and zeros in a matter of seconds just by using our brain's built-in ability to analyze patterns. So this is really nice and helpful, but all this tells me is what I'm looking at. So at this point, based on visual patterns, I can find the code on the phone. But that's not enough to blow up a battery. The next thing I need to find is the code that controls the battery, but we're back to the needle in a stack of needles problem. That code looks pretty much like all the other code on that system. So I might not be able to find the code that controls the battery, but there's a lot of things that are very similar to that. You have code that controls your screen, that controls your buttons, that controls your microphones, so even if I can't find the code for the battery, I bet I can find one of those things. So the next step in my binary analysis process is to look at pieces of information that are similar to each other. It's really, really hard to do at a binary level, but if we translate those similarities to a visual abstraction instead, I don't even have to sift through the raw data. All I have to do is wait for the image to light up to see when I'm at similar pieces. I follow these strands of similarity like a trail of bread crumbs to find exactly what I'm looking for. So at this point in the process, I've located the code responsible for controlling your battery, but that's still not enough to blow up a phone. The last piece of the puzzle is understanding how that code controls your battery. For this, I need to identify very subtle, very detailed relationships within that binary information, another very hard thing to do when looking at ones and zeros. But if we translate that information into a physical representation, we can sit back and let our visual cortex do all the hard work. It can find all the detailed patterns, all the important pieces, for us. It can find out exactly how the pieces of that code work together to control that battery. All of this can be done in a matter of hours, whereas the same process would have taken months in the past. This is all well and good in a theoretical blow up a terrorist's phone situation. I wanted to find out if this would really work in the work I do every day. So I was playing around with these same concepts with some of the data I've looked at in the past, and yet again, I was trying to find a very detailed, specific piece of code inside of a massive piece of binary information. So I looked at it at this level, thinking I was looking at the right thing, only to see this doesn't have the connectivity I would have expected for the code I was looking for. In fact, I'm not really sure what this is, but when I stepped back a level and looked at the similarities within the code I saw, this doesn't have similarities like any code that exists out there. I can't even be looking at code. In fact, from this perspective, I could tell, this isn't code. This is an image of some sort. And from here, I can see, it's not just an image, this is a photograph. Now that I know it's a photograph, I've got dozens of other binary translation techniques to visualize and understand that information, so in a matter of seconds, we can take this information, shove it through a dozen other visual translation techniques in order to find out exactly what we were looking at. I saw — (Laughter) — it was that darn kitten again. All this is enabled because we were able to find a way to translate a very hard problem to something our brains do very naturally. So what does this mean? Well, for kittens, it means no more hiding in ones and zeros. For me, it means no more wasted weekends. For cyber, it means we have a radical new way to tackle the most impossible problems. It means we have a new weapon in the evolving theater of cyber warfare, but for all of us, it means that cyber engineers now have the ability to become first responders in emergency situations. When seconds count, we've unlocked the means to stop the bad guys. Thank you. (Applause)	這裡有很多1和0就是所謂的二進制信息。這是電腦溝通的方式。這是它們收集資料的方式。這是電腦的思考方式。這就是電腦的運作會做的所有事情。我是一個網路安全研究員,我的工作就是研究該信息,和把該信息弄清楚,嘗試去明白1和0的意思。不幸的是，我們不只討論 我這裡這個屏幕的1和0。我們不只是說著幾頁的1和0。我們說的是上億個1和0，是超過任何人所能理解的。 現在，令人感興趣的是當我剛開始做網路— (歡笑聲) —當我剛開始做網路, 我並不確定探討1和0是我一辈子想做的事。因為在我的腦海裡，網路是在防止病毒侵略我奶奶的​​電腦，防止Myspace的網頁被駭客入侵，也許在我最輝煌的日子，它防止人們的信用卡資料被盜用。這些都是重要的因素，但這不是我想度過我人生的方式。 但工作三十分鐘之後作為一名國防承包商，我開始發現我的網路概念有點不對勁。事實上，在國防眼裡，防止病毒侵略我奶奶的​​電腦在他們的列表裡實在不重要。原因是網路比任何上述事件還來得大。網路是我們生活中不可或缺的東西，因為電腦是我們生活中不可或缺的東西就算你沒擁有電腦。電腦掌控你車上的一切，從全球定位系統到安全氣囊，它控制你的電話。你之所以能撥911與別人連線都因為它。它掌控了國家的整個基礎建設,之所以你能使用電,使用熱能、飲用水、食物,電腦也掌控了軍用設備,從飛彈基地到衛星一直到核能防禦系統,上述所有事情的運作都依賴著電腦,所以網路極為重要當其中一個環節出錯,網路也能使所有事情無法運作。 但這就是我踏進網路世界的地方。我工作的主要任務是保護全部的東西,確保它們能運作,但有些時候，我需要破壞其中的一些東西,因為網路不光只有保護,它也包括破壞。我們現在來到了網路武器的時代。事實上，訝異的是網路武器的範疇已經擴大到了戰爭的地步。戰爭。它不一定是壞事。在一方面，它意味著我們需要有全新的戰線來保護自己，但另一方面，也表示我們有一種全新的攻擊方式，全新的辦法來阻止邪惡的人做邪惡的事情。 讓我們用完全理論的例子來考慮這一點。假設恐怖分子要炸毀一座建築物，他想在未來一次又一次的做到這一點。所以在該建築物爆炸時他並不想在場。他會使用手機作為遙控引爆。以往, 唯一制止這種恐怖份子,便是我們必須槍林彈雨和汽車追逐，但現在這未必需要了。我們正在進入這樣的一個時代，按一個鈕阻止他從1000英里外，因為無論他知道與否，只要他決定用他的手機，他便走進網路的領域。一個精心製作的網路攻擊可以侵略他的手機，對他的電池禁用過壓保護，大幅度的電路超載，導致電池過熱和爆炸。沒有手機，沒有引爆器，也許恐怖分子都沒了，按一個按鈕全都是千里之外。 那麼這是如何運作呢？這一切都回到那些1和0。二進制信息使你的手機的運作，正確使用它，可以讓你的手機爆炸。因此，當你開始從這個角度來看網路，篩選二進制信息過生活開始似乎有點剌激。 但這裡才是大問題：這是很艱苦的，真的，真的很艱苦，原因如下。想想你在手機裡擁有的一切。你擁有你所拍攝的照片。你擁有你聽的音樂。你擁有你的聯絡人清單，你的電子郵件，大概500個應用程序，你在這一生從來沒有用過，這背後的一切是軟體，代碼，控制你的手機，在某一處，埋藏裡面的代碼，是控制你電池的一小片，那就是我真正找的東西，但這一切，只是一堆1和0，而這全部都混在一起。在網路中，我們稱這是在一堆針裡找出一支針，因為所有東西都非常相似。我在尋找關鍵的一塊，但它混在其中。 讓我們退後一步走出製造恐怖手機爆炸這類理論的情況，看看真實發生在我身上的事。幾乎不管我做什麼，我的工作總是坐下來從一大堆的二進制信息，一直做一些具體的事情尋找一個關鍵的部分。在這種情況下，我要尋找一種非常先進，非常高科技的一行代碼，我知道我能破解的代碼，但它埋藏在十億個1和0的內部的某處。不幸的是，我不知道我究竟在找什麼。我不知道它看起來像什麼，這使得要發現它真的，真的很辛苦。當我這樣做，我基本上是要看各種二進制信息，嘗試破解每一行信息，看看這是否是我要找的。過了一段時間後，我想我已經找到了一直在尋找的那一塊。我想這也許是它。這似乎是對的，但我也不太肯定。我不知道這些1和0代表什麼。所以我花了一些時間，試圖把它解決，但沒運氣，最後我決定，我要克服它，我要在一個週末回來，我要搞清楚這代表什麼才會離開。我就這樣做。我在一個星期六的早晨，花約10小時，點滴匯集所有資料。我只是不知道它們是如何結合在一起的。我不知道這些1和0的意思。整整歷經15小時，我開始更了解什麼在那裡，但我心存疑慮我一直在整理的資料實際上與我要找的無關。20小時後，進度開始非常緩慢 —（笑聲） —我敢肯定我走錯路，但我不會放棄。在實驗室30小時後，我明白我一直在整理的是什麼，事實證明，我是對的，這並不是我所期待的。我花了30小時拼湊這些1和0, 形成一張小貓的照片。（笑聲）我浪費我生命中30小時尋找這隻小貓,跟我試圖完成的任務無關。 我很沮喪，我精疲力竭。30小時在實驗室後，我聞起來可能滿身汗臭。但我沒有放棄而回家，而是後退了一步，問自己，哪裡出了問題呢？我怎麼會犯這樣一個愚蠢的錯誤？我在這方面很能幹。我靠這個謀生。到底發生什麼事？嗯，我想，當你在這個層面上看信息，是很容易迷失軌跡的。當你在樹林之中是不容易見到森林的。很容易走進錯誤的兔子洞，而浪費大量時間做著錯誤的事情。不過，我有這個頓悟。我們從第一天開始已經完全不正確地看數據。電腦就是這樣思考的，1和0。這不是人的思考方式，但我們一直在努力地適應我們的頭腦像電腦一樣思考，這樣我們就可以理解這些信息。我們不應該試圖讓頭腦適應問題，而是應該使問題符合我們的頭腦,因為大腦有着巨大的潛力分析大量的信息，但不是這樣。如果我們能夠將這類信息做正確的翻譯而發掘潛能呢？抱著這些想法，我從工作的地下室實驗室衝到了我家裡的實驗室,實際上看起來幾乎是一樣。主要的區別是，在工作時，我被網路上的材料包圍，而這種情況下網路似乎是一個問題。在家裡，我卻是被我所學到一切包圍。所以，我翻遍每一本我能找到的書，每一個我曾有過的想法，看看我們如何才能將問題轉域換到完全不同的東西？ 最大的問題是，我們想將它翻譯成什麼？有什麼是我們的大腦能夠自然的利用？我的答案是視像。我們有巨大的能力來分析視覺信息。我們可以將顏色色層，深度線索，這些種種不同的信號到我們周圍的世界成為一個連貫的畫面。實在是難以置信。因此，如果我們能找到一種方法把這些二進制模式轉換為視覺信號，我們才能真正解開我們的大腦功能來處理這些東西。於是我開始看看這些二進制信息，我問自己，當我第一次遇到這樣的事情我會怎麼辦？我想要做的第一件事，我要回答的第一個問題的是,這是什麼？我不在乎它做什麼，它是如何運作。我所想知道的是，它是什麼？我從觀察一部分信號便可以明白這一點，二進制信息中的序列部分，我觀察着那些數據部分之間的關係。當我收集夠這些序，我開始得到信息意向的頭緒。讓我們回到那個炸毀恐怖分子電話的情境。在二進制級別英文文字看起來是像這樣。你的聯絡人清單是像這樣，如果我研究它的話。這看起來真的很難分析，但如果我們採取這些相同的二進制數據部分，而將它翻譯成視像，翻譯這些關係，這就是我們能夠得到的東西。英文文字從視覺抽象的觀點看起來便是這樣。突然間，它向我們展示所有1和0相同的信息，但以一種完全不同的方式，一種我們就可以立刻理解的方式。我們在這裡可以即時看到所有的模式。我花了幾秒便挑出在這裡的圖案，但從1和0之間就要數個小時，數天。這只需要幾分鐘人們便能看到這裡代表的這些圖案，但要從1和0之間看到便需要多年的網路經驗。這部分是聯絡人清單裡面由小寫字母後跟著小寫字母所致。這是由大寫跟著大寫，小寫跟著大寫，大寫跟著小寫。這部分是空格所致。這部分歸位鍵是所致。這樣, 我們可以在幾秒鐘內剖析二進制信息的每個小細節，而不是這個階段的幾個星期，幾個月。這就是你手機的1和0,但這是看起來的視覺抽象。這就是你音樂的樣子，但這是它的視覺抽象。對我來說更重要的是，這就是你手機上代碼的視覺抽象。這就是我的目的,它的視覺抽象。如果我找不到這一點，我便不能讓手機發生爆炸。我可以花幾個星期在這些在1和0上但只需要幾秒便能挑出一個視覺的抽象。 在這一切中一個最顯著的收穫是我們有著一種全新的方式來了解新的信息，以前從未見過的方式。現在我知道在二進制層次的英文是什麼模樣，而我知道它的視覺抽象模樣，但我從來沒有見過俄羅斯文的二進制。我得花幾個星期弄清楚從原始碼1和0，我看到什麼。但因為我們的大腦可以立即接收這些視覺抽象內部的細微圖案，我們可以不自覺地應用在這些新的情況。這就是俄羅斯文看起來的視化抽象。因為我知道一種語言的樣子，我可以識別其他語言，即使我不熟悉那些語言。這就是照片的樣子，但是這是剪貼畫的樣子。這是你手機上代碼看起來像的樣子，但這是在你電腦上的代碼的樣子。我們的大腦可以看得到在1和0中看不到的模式。但我所提所的只是這個方法潛力的開端。我們才剛剛開始解開我們思想的能力來處理視覺信息。如果我們把這些相同的概念，並將其轉化為三維，我們會發現信息意識的全新方式。在幾秒鐘內，我們可以挑出這裡每個圖案。我們可以看到與代碼相關聯的交叉。我們可以看到與文字相關的立方體。我們甚至可以看到最小的視覺物象。0和1的事情使我們花上幾個星期，幾個月才找到，在某種視覺抽象便立刻顯現出來，我們繼續通過這方法，添上越來越多信息，我們發現的是在幾秒之內我們能夠處理數十億的1和0僅僅使用我們大腦的內置分析模式的能力。 這是非常好的，有益的，但這一切告訴我真正想知道的。在這一刻, 在視覺模式的基礎上，我能在手機上找到代碼。但這還不足以炸毀電池。接下來我需要找到的是控制電池的代碼，但我們又回到一堆針裡找一支針的問題。這些代碼看起來非常像該系統上的所有其它代碼。 所以我可能根本無法找到控制電池的代碼，但有很多東西都是非常相似的。你有控制屏幕的代碼，控制你的按鈕，控制你的麥克風，所以即使我無法找到電池的代碼，我打賭我能找到那其中一件。所以我在二進制分析過程的下一個步驟便是要看看彼此相似的信息片段。這在二進位級別中，真的，真的很難做到，但如果我們把這些相似之處視覺化，我甚至不須經過篩選原始的數據。我所要做的就是等待看到同類片段圖像亮起來。我按照這些相似性像麵包屑的線索，尋找我要找的東西。 在過程中的這一階段，我已經找到負責控制電池的代碼，但仍不足以炸毀電話。最後一塊拼圖便是要理解這些代碼如何控制你的電池。對於這一點，我需要在二進制信息內確定很微妙，很詳細的關係，當看著1和0是另外一個很困難的事。但是如果我們把這些信息表現成視覺，我們可以坐下來，讓我們的視力展其所能。它可以替我們找到詳細的模式，所有的重要部分。它可以找出代碼究竟是如何拼在一起運作，以控制電池。這一切都可以在幾個小時內就完成，而以往同樣的過程則要花上幾個月。 在打擊恐怖分子電話情況的理論上,這是一個非常不錯的主意。我想看看這在每天的工作上是否真的有用。所以我運用這些概念，於一些我以前看過的數據，再次的，我要從大規模的二進制信息內,試圖找到一些非常詳細的、特定的代碼片段。當我在這個層面上看，我以為一直在看着正確的事情，只看到這個我原本期望的代碼沒有連結性。事實上我真的不知道這是什麼，但當我向後退了幾步，看著我看到代碼中的相似性，根本不像現存任的何代碼。我看到的甚至不是代碼。事實上，從這個角度來說，我看得出來，這不是代碼。這是某種類型的圖像。從這裡，我可以看到，它不只是一個圖像，這是一張照片。現在我知道這是一張照片，我有其他幾十個二進制翻譯技術，可視化和理解這些信息，所以在幾秒鐘之內，我們就可以利用這信息，通過其他的視覺轉換技術，以找出我們所期待的。我看到了 —(笑聲)—又是那該死的小貓。這一切都是因為我們能夠找到一種方法,將一個非常困難的問題,換轉成我們大腦非常自然能做的東西。 這意味著呢？嗯，對於小貓，在1和0裡再沒法躲起來。對於我來說，這意味著不再要浪費週末。對於網路，這意味著我們有一種全新的方式來解決最不可能的問題。這意味著我們在不斷發展的網路戰有新的武器，但對我們所有人來說，這意味著網路​​工程師現在在緊急情況下有能力成為一線救援人員。當分秒必爭時，我們有能力解開停止壞人的手段。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
