Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_gerdes_the_future_race_car_150mph_and_no_driver	So, how many of you have ever gotten behind the wheel of a car when you really shouldn't have been driving? Maybe you're out on the road for a long day, and you just wanted to get home. You were tired, but you felt you could drive a few more miles. Maybe you thought, I've had less to drink than everybody else, I should be the one to go home. Or maybe your mind was just entirely elsewhere. Does this sound familiar to you? Now, in those situations, wouldn't it be great if there was a button on your dashboard that you could push, and the car would get you home safely? Now, that's been the promise of the self-driving car, the autonomous vehicle, and it's been the dream since at least 1939, when General Motors showcased this idea at their Futurama booth at the World's Fair. Now, it's been one of those dreams that's always seemed about 20 years in the future. Now, two weeks ago, that dream took a step forward, when the state of Nevada granted Google's self-driving car the very first license for an autonomous vehicle, clearly establishing that it's legal for them to test it on the roads in Nevada. Now, California's considering similar legislation, and this would make sure that the autonomous car is not one of those things that has to stay in Vegas. (Laughter) Now, in my lab at Stanford, we've been working on autonomous cars too, but with a slightly different spin on things. You see, we've been developing robotic race cars, cars that can actually push themselves to the very limits of physical performance. Now, why would we want to do such a thing? Well, there's two really good reasons for this. First, we believe that before people turn over control to an autonomous car, that autonomous car should be at least as good as the very best human drivers. Now, if you're like me, and the other 70 percent of the population who know that we are above-average drivers, you understand that's a very high bar. There's another reason as well. Just like race car drivers can use all of the friction between the tire and the road, all of the car's capabilities to go as fast as possible, we want to use all of those capabilities to avoid any accident we can. Now, you may push the car to the limits not because you're driving too fast, but because you've hit an icy patch of road, conditions have changed. In those situations, we want a car that is capable enough to avoid any accident that can physically be avoided. I must confess, there's kind of a third motivation as well. You see, I have a passion for racing. In the past, I've been a race car owner, a crew chief and a driving coach, although maybe not at the level that you're currently expecting. One of the things that we've developed in the lab — we've developed several vehicles — is what we believe is the world's first autonomously drifting car. It's another one of those categories where maybe there's not a lot of competition. (Laughter) But this is P1. It's an entirely student-built electric vehicle, which through using its rear-wheel drive and front-wheel steer-by-wire can drift around corners. It can get sideways like a rally car driver, always able to take the tightest curve, even on slippery, changing surfaces, never spinning out. We've also worked with Volkswagen Oracle, on Shelley, an autonomous race car that has raced at 150 miles an hour through the Bonneville Salt Flats, gone around Thunderhill Raceway Park in the sun, the wind and the rain, and navigated the 153 turns and 12.4 miles of the Pikes Peak Hill Climb route in Colorado with nobody at the wheel. (Laughter) (Applause) I guess it goes without saying that we've had a lot of fun doing this. But in fact, there's something else that we've developed in the process of developing these autonomous cars. We have developed a tremendous appreciation for the capabilities of human race car drivers. As we've looked at the question of how well do these cars perform, we wanted to compare them to our human counterparts. And we discovered their human counterparts are amazing. Now, we can take a map of a race track, we can take a mathematical model of a car, and with some iteration, we can actually find the fastest way around that track. We line that up with data that we record from a professional driver, and the resemblance is absolutely remarkable. Yes, there are subtle differences here, but the human race car driver is able to go out and drive an amazingly fast line, without the benefit of an algorithm that compares the trade-off between going as fast as possible in this corner, and shaving a little bit of time off of the straight over here. Not only that, they're able to do it lap after lap after lap. They're able to go out and consistently do this, pushing the car to the limits every single time. It's extraordinary to watch. You put them in a new car, and after a few laps, they've found the fastest line in that car, and they're off to the races. It really makes you think, we'd love to know what's going on inside their brain. So as researchers, that's what we decided to find out. We decided to instrument not only the car, but also the race car driver, to try to get a glimpse into what was going on in their head as they were doing this. Now, this is Dr. Lene Harbott applying electrodes to the head of John Morton. John Morton is a former Can-Am and IMSA driver, who's also a class champion at Le Mans. Fantastic driver, and very willing to put up with graduate students and this sort of research. She's putting electrodes on his head so that we can monitor the electrical activity in John's brain as he races around the track. Now, clearly we're not going to put a couple of electrodes on his head and understand exactly what all of his thoughts are on the track. However, neuroscientists have identified certain patterns that let us tease out some very important aspects of this. For instance, the resting brain tends to generate a lot of alpha waves. In contrast, theta waves are associated with a lot of cognitive activity, like visual processing, things where the driver is thinking quite a bit. Now, we can measure this, and we can look at the relative power between the theta waves and the alpha waves. This gives us a measure of mental workload, how much the driver is actually challenged cognitively at any point along the track. Now, we wanted to see if we could actually record this on the track, so we headed down south to Laguna Seca. Laguna Seca is a legendary raceway about halfway between Salinas and Monterey. It has a curve there called the Corkscrew. Now, the Corkscrew is a chicane, followed by a quick right-handed turn as the road drops three stories. Now, the strategy for driving this as explained to me was, you aim for the bush in the distance, and as the road falls away, you realize it was actually the top of a tree. All right, so thanks to the Revs Program at Stanford, we were able to take John there and put him behind the wheel of a 1960 Porsche Abarth Carrera. Life is way too short for boring cars. So, here you see John on the track, he's going up the hill — Oh! Somebody liked that — and you can see, actually, his mental workload — measuring here in the red bar — you can see his actions as he approaches. Now watch, he has to downshift. And then he has to turn left. Look for the tree, and down. Not surprisingly, you can see this is a pretty challenging task. You can see his mental workload spike as he goes through this, as you would expect with something that requires this level of complexity. But what's really interesting is to look at areas of the track where his mental workload doesn't increase. I'm going to take you around now to the other side of the track. Turn three. And John's going to go into that corner and the rear end of the car is going to begin to slide out. He's going to have to correct for that with steering. So watch as John does this here. Watch the mental workload, and watch the steering. The car begins to slide out, dramatic maneuver to correct it, and no change whatsoever in the mental workload. Not a challenging task. In fact, entirely reflexive. Now, our data processing on this is still preliminary, but it really seems that these phenomenal feats that the race car drivers are performing are instinctive. They are things that they have simply learned to do. It requires very little mental workload for them to perform these amazing feats. And their actions are fantastic. This is exactly what you want to do on the steering wheel to catch the car in this situation. Now, this has given us tremendous insight and inspiration for our own autonomous vehicles. We've started to ask the question: Can we make them a little less algorithmic and a little more intuitive? Can we take this reflexive action that we see from the very best race car drivers, introduce it to our cars, and maybe even into a system that could get onto your car in the future? That would take us a long step along the road to autonomous vehicles that drive as well as the best humans. But it's made us think a little bit more deeply as well. Do we want something more from our car than to simply be a chauffeur? Do we want our car to perhaps be a partner, a coach, someone that can use their understanding of the situation to help us reach our potential? Can, in fact, the technology not simply replace humans, but allow us to reach the level of reflex and intuition that we're all capable of? So, as we move forward into this technological future, I want you to just pause and think of that for a moment. What is the ideal balance of human and machine? And as we think about that, let's take inspiration from the absolutely amazing capabilities of the human body and the human mind. Thank you. (Applause)	"在你們當中有多少人曾經在你根本不應該駕駛的狀況下坐在駕駛者的位上呢?也許你曾經一天開車很久了當下你只想回家你非常累，但是你覺得你還可以再開幾哩路當下你也許在想,我喝的酒比其他人都還少應是我開車回家吧又或者你的注意力完全不在開車這件事上了 這些想法聽起來很熟悉吧?現在，在剛剛所說的那些狀況下，你應該會感到以下的新發明很吸引吧...如果有一個按鈕在你的儀表板上，按一按車子會自動地把你安全地送回家這是自動導航汽車的承諾一輛自主的汽車，這是從一九三九年由通用汽車公司在世界博覽會“飛出個未來""攤位中展示他們的想法開始後，很多人對汽車的寄望 現在, 這些夢想好像永遠要在二十年後才有希望實現現在, 就在兩星期前, 這個夢想向前邁進了一步當美國內華達州對 Google (谷歌) 的自動導航汽車發出首張針對自動汽車的行車證明確確立法洌上容許這輛車可以在內華達州的道路上進行測試最近, 加州正考慮仿效類似的立法工作這樣一來, 他們就可以確保那輛自動汽車不會只在內華達州出現 (笑聲) 在我的史丹福大學實驗室裏, 我們也在著手研究自動汽車, 但是從一個稍為不同的角度去看這件事。你看, 我們正在研發機動賽車它們可以把自己的物理表現推至極限 為甚麼我們會想做這件事呢?嗯, 這裏有兩個非常好的原因第一, 我們相信, 在人類把控制權交給自動汽車之前, 那自動汽車的表現至少要能夠與最好的人類駕駛者匹敵如果你跟我一樣, 跟百分之七十的人口一樣都知道我們比一般駕駛者優勝你會明白這對於自動汽車來說是很高的門檻還有另一個原因就像賽車手能夠充份運用輪胎與路面之間的摩擦力加上充份運用車子的性能去達致最高速我們想運用那些性質去減少任何意外的發生 有時你使車子超過所能承受的極限未必因為你把車子開得太快而是因為你碰到地上的冰塊以致於狀況有所改變。在那些情況, 我們想要有只要是物理上能被避免的就能購避免任何意外發生的一輛車。 我必須承認, 我們有第三個動機你看, 我有一股對賽車的熱誠以前, 我曾經是一輛賽車車主一個車隊的領隊及駕駛教練雖然不是你們想像中的那個層次我們在實驗室裏研發的其中一個項目—我們研發過幾款汽車—是我們認為是世界上第一輛會飄移的自動汽車這是一個比較少競爭對手的研究範疇 (笑聲) 這是 P1。一個完全由學生建立的電動汽車它用它的尾輪以及電子操控的前輪可以在車道的彎位飄移它可以像拉力賽中的賽車手高速轉向永遠能夠在最窄的角度行走即使賽道濕滑、路面情況轉變它都不會滑出賽道 我們也跟福特汽車合作用它的Shelley 型號汽車, 一款自動賽車以時速150 英里穿越美國猶他州邦納維爾大鹽湖附近的平原在太陽底下橫過 Thunderhill 賽車場也在大風和雨中行走過該處以導航系統引領汽車在科羅拉多州的 Pikes Peak Hill Climb 賽道上轉153 個圈及走12.4 英里汽車是無人駕駛的 (笑聲) (掌聲) 我毋須多說，這些經歷為我們帶來無窮的樂趣但實際上，我們在研發了這些自動汽車的過程中，體驗到一些事情我們培養出一種對人類賽車手的能力的高度欣賞當我們看到這些自動汽車的表現時我們想將它們與人類賽車手作比較我們發現人類賽車手的表現是多麼令人讚歎的如果我們拿到賽道的地圖我們可以為自動汽車製作一個數學模型經過幾個回合的修定，我們的確可以找到穿越賽道的最快路徑我們將這些記錄得來的數據與專業的賽車手比較結果兩者的吻合實在值得靈人注意 是的，兩者有少許的差異但人類賽車手能夠出賽然後奇妙的高速行駛卻毋須任何演算法去計算車子以最高速轉向以及不在直路上行走所損失的時間兩者之間的取捨不單如此，他們能夠在一在一圈又一圈... 又一圈後做出同樣的決定他們在賽道上的表現非常穩定每一次都把車子的性能發揮到極限這的確令人歎為觀止你把他們放到一輛新車裏跑幾個圈以後，他們就能夠為那新車找出最快的線道然後他們就準備好去比賽 你真的會覺得我們是多麼渴望知道他們的腦袋是如何運作的作為研究人員，這是我們決定追尋的問題我們不但決定裝備那輛車子還要裝備那個駕駛者去嘗試了解，在他們做出這些行為的時候他們的腦袋會產生怎麼的變化蘭尼•哈博 (Dr. Lene Harbott) 博士把電極附在約翰•摩頓 (John Morton) 的頭上約翰•摩頓是加拿大－美國挑戰盃及國際賽車運動協會賽事的車手亦是利曼24小时耐力赛的分組冠軍這個優異的車手，而且非常願意和研究生合作及參與這類研究她正在把電極放到他的頭上使我們能在約翰在賽道上飛馳的時候監察他的大腦活動 明顯地，我們不能以這幾支附在他頭上的電極完全了解他在賽道的時候的思想但是，神經系統科學家已經認定了幾個不同的規律為我們提供了幾個非常重要的線索例如，大腦靜止的時候傾向產生很多 alpha 波段相對地，theta 波段與很多認知活動有關，例如視覺訊息處理這些都是駕駛者們經常想著的東西現在，我們可以量度這些波段以及我們可以看看theta 波段與alpha 波段的相對強弱這會為我們提供一個大腦活動量的估算看看駕駛者的大腦認知能力受到多大的挑戰 我們想看看我們能否在賽道上記錄這些數據因此我們南下到加州的 Laguna Seca 賽車場Laguna Seca 是一個傳奇的賽道它在 Salinas 和 Monterey 兩個縣之間它有一條彎彎的賽道叫做 ""開瓶器""""開瓶器"" 有幾個之字形的急彎接著來一個急速的右轉，同時下墜約三層樓的高度有人告訴我處理這部分賽道的竅門你要望著遠處的矮樹當賽道下降的時候，你會發現那矮樹其實是一棵大樹的頂部 好了，因為史丹福大學 Revs 計劃的資助我們可以帶約翰到那裏把他放到一輛1960年生產的保時捷Abarth Carrera型號賽車的駕駛員座位上對於開無聊賽車，生命是如此短促！你可以看到約翰在賽道上他正爬上那山丘— 噢! 有人就是喜歡這樣—你可以看到他的腦活動量— 紅色那條軸 —你可以看到他上山時的動作現在又看! 他正下坡接著他作了一個左轉看看那樹，再向下看 可以預料的，你知道這是一個很具挑戰性的任務你可以看到他跨越這裏的時候，腦活動量急劇增加對於一個這樣複雜的任務我們覺得是合理的但有趣的地方是，你可以看到賽道上的某幾點在這些地方約翰的腦活動量沒有增加我會帶你往賽道的另一端看看第三個彎: 約翰正準備穿越這個轉角賽車的尾輪開始滑行他要著手以方向盤改正這個情況看看約翰怎樣做吧看看他的腦活動量，再看看那方向盤車子開始滑行，他以戲劇性的操作去改正它但腦活動量並沒有改變這並非一個具挑戰性的任務實際上，這完全是個本能反應 我們在這個情況所得的數據還在最初的階段但它好像說明了這些驚人的技藝背後賽車手的反應是出於本能的這些動作都是他們學習的成果對於他們要做出這些技藝這些動作對腦活動量的要求並不高他們的動作實在令人難以置信這些都是每個人希望可以在這些情況下操作汽車的典範 這為我們提供了寶貴的參考價值同時亦為我們自己的自動汽車提供相當多的啟發我們開始問一個問題我們能夠將自動汽車發展成較少依賴演算法同時較多依賴直覺的機器嗎?我們可以把這樣的本能反應這些我們可以在世界頂級賽車手的身上看到的本能反應結合到我們的汽車上又或者結合到一個系統在將來會放在你的汽車上的系統嗎?要將這樣的系統放到汽車上還需要長時間完成的奮鬥這個系統將可以與世上最好的車手比擬 但這亦引發出另一個比較深層次的問題我們究竟想要一輛能做更多事情的汽車抑或只是一個司機呢?我們是否想汽車變成我們的伙伴、良師一個會用它們對環境的理解幫助我們發揮潛能的系統呢?究竟，科技是否可以不單單取代人類而是誘發我們能力所及的本能反應及直覺呢? 因此，當我們在科技進步的同時我希望你停一停，思考這個問題甚麼是人類和機器最理想的平衡呢?當我們思考這個問題的時候就讓我們感受一下人類身體及腦袋對我們的啟發吧! 謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
