Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_anderson_of_wired_on_tech_s_long_tail	"I'd like to speak about technology trends, which is something that many of you follow — but we also follow, for related reasons. Obviously, being a technology magazine, technology trends are something that we write about and need to know about. But also it's part of being any monthly magazine — you live in the future. And we have a long lead-time. We have to plan issues many months in advance; we have to guess at what public appetites are going to be six months, nine months down the road. So we're in the forecasting business. We also, like a lot of companies, create a product that's based on technology trends. In this case, ours is about ideas and information, and, if we're lucky, some entertainment. But the concept's quite the same. And so we have to understand not only why tech's important, where it's going, but also, very importantly, when — the timing is everything. And it's interesting, when you look at the predictions made during the peak of the boom in the 1990s, about e-commerce, or Internet traffic, or broadband adoption, or Internet advertising, they were all right — they were just wrong in time. Almost every one of those has come true just a few years later. But the difference of a few years on stock-market valuations is obviously extreme. And that's why timing is everything. You've probably seen something like this before. This is the classic Gartner Hype Curve, which talks about kind of the trajectory of a technology's lifespan. And just for fun, we put a bunch of technologies on it, to show whether they were kind of rising for the first high peak, or whether they were about to crash into the trough of disillusionment, or rise back in the slope of enlightenment, etc. And this is one way to do technology forecasting: get a sense of where technology is and then anticipate the next upturn. We tend to do any technology that we think is sufficiently important; we'll typically do it twice. Once, we want to do it first. We want to be the first to do it, for the geeks who appreciate that, we'll catch it right there at the technology-trigger. You can see in 1997, we put Linux on the cover. But then it comes back. And sufficiently big technologies are going to hit the mainstream, and they're going to burst out. And then it's time to do it again. Last year. And that's one way that we try to time technology trends. I'd like to talk about a way of thinking about technology trends that I call my ""grand unified theory of predicting the future,"" but it's closer to a petite unified theory of predicting the future. It's based on the presumption, the observation even, that all important technologies go through four stages in their life — at least one of the four stages, sometimes all four of the stages. And at each one of these stages, can be seen as a collision — a collision with something else — for example, a critical price-line that changes both the technology and also changes its effect on the world. It's an inflection point. And these are the inflection points that tell you what the next chapter in that technology's life is going to be, and maybe how you can do something about it. The first is the critical price. The first stage in a technology's advance is that it'll fall below a critical price. After it falls below a critical price, it will tend, if it's successful, to rise above a critical mass, a penetration. Many technologies, at that point, displace another technology, and that's another important point. And then finally, a lot of technologies commoditize. Towards the end of their life, they become nearly free. Each one of those is an opportunity to do something about it; it's an opportunity for the technology to change. And even if you missed, you know, the first boom of Wi-Fi — you know, Wi-Fi did the critical price, it did the critical mass, but hasn't done displacement yet, and hasn't done free yet — there's still more opportunity in that. I'd like to demonstrate what I mean by this by telling the story of the DVD, which is a technology which has done all of these. The DVD, as you know, was introduced in the mid-1990s and it was quite expensive. But you can see that by 1998, it had fallen below 400 dollars, and 400 dollars was a psychological threshold. And it started to take off. And you can see that the units started to trend up, the hidden inflection point — it was taking off. The next thing it hit, a year later, was critical mass. In this case, 20 percent is often a good proxy for critical mass in a household. And what's interesting here is that something else took off along with it: home-theater units. Suddenly you have a DVD in the house; you've got high-quality digital video; you have a reason to have a big-screen television; you have a reason for Dolby 5.1 surround-sound. And maybe you have reasons for starting to connect them, and bring the rest of your entertainment in. What's interesting also is — note that Netflix was founded in 1999. Reed Hastings is here. He clearly saw that that was a moment, that was an inflection point that he could do something with. The next phase it hit was displacement. You can see around 2001 it finally out-sold the VCR. And here too, you can see the implications in the world at large. Netflix was right — the Netflix model could capitalize on the DVD in a way that the video-rental stores couldn't. Among the DVD's many assets is that it's very small; you can stick it in the mailer and post it cheaply. That gave an advantage; that was an implication of the technology's rise that wasn't obvious to everybody. And then finally, DVDs are approaching free. There's a company called Apex, a no-name Chinese firm, who has, several times in the past year, been the number-one DVD seller in America. Their average price, for last year, was 48 dollars. You're aware of the perhaps apocryphal Wal-Mart stampede over the 30-dollar DVD. But they're getting very, very cheap, and look at the interesting implication of it. As they get cheaper, the premium brands, the Sonys and such, are losing market share, and the no-names, the Apexes, are gaining them. They're being commodified, and that's what happens when things go to zero. It's a tough market out there. (Laughter) Now they've introduced these four ways of looking at technology, these four stages of technology's life. I'd like to talk about some other technologies out there, just technologies on our radar — and I'll use this lens, these four, as a way to kind of tell you where each one of those technologies is in its development. They're not necessarily the top-10 technologies out there — they're just examples of technologies that are in each one of these periods. But I think that the implications of them approaching these crossovers, these intersections, are interesting to think about. Start with gene sequencing. As you probably know, gene sequencing — in a large part, because it's built on computers — is falling in price at a kind of a Moore's Law-like level. It is now possible — will be possible, and if Craig Venter indeed comes today, he may tell you something about this — to sequence the human genome for 40 million dollars by the end of this year. That's as opposed to billions just a few years ago. You know, our ability to capture the tools of creation is getting closer and closer. What's interesting is that at the same time, the number of genes that we're discovering is rising very quickly. Each one of these genes has potential diagnostic test. There will come a day when you can have hundreds of thousands of tests done, very cheaply, if you want to know. You can learn about your own mosaic. Here's another technology that's approaching a critical price. This is a fascinating research from WHO that shows the effect of generic drugs on anti-retroviral drug compounds and cocktails. In January 2000, the price was 10,000 dollars, or 27 dollars a day. The generics came in, first in Brazil and elsewhere, and the effect was just dramatic on pricing. Today it's less than 50 cents a day. And what's interesting is if you look at the price elasticity, if you look at the correlation between these two, as the anti-retrovirals come down, the number of people you can treat goes radically up. And the Clinton Foundation and WHO believe that they can treat three million people worldwide by 2005 — two million in sub-Saharan Africa. And the falling price of drugs has a lot to do with that. Linux is another good example. Now we've switched to critical mass. These are now technologies that are hitting critical mass. If you look here, here's Linux in red, and it's hit 20 percent. Interestingly, it's done a crossover before, but not the crossovers that matter. The crossover that's going to matter is the one with the blue. But you can look and see the direction those lines are going, you can see that at the 20 percent, it's now taken seriously. It's not just for the geeks any more. That is, I imagine, what people in Redmond wake up in the middle of the night thinking about. (Laughter) Another technology that we see all around us out here is hybrid cars. I don't know whether anybody has a Prius 2004, but they're fantastic. And if you look at the trends here, by about 2008 — and I don't think this is a crazy forecast — they'll be two percent of auto sales. Two percent isn't 20 percent, but in the car business, which is slow moving, that's huge; that's arrival. At two percent, you start seeing them on the roads everywhere. And what's interesting about the hybrids taking off is you've now introduced electric motors to the automobile industry. It's the first radical change in automobile technology in 100 years. And once you have electric motors, you can do anything: you can change the structure of the car in any way you want. You can have regenerative braking; you can have drive-by-wire; you can have replaceable body shapes — it's a little thing that starts with a hybrid, but it can lead to a whole new era of the car. Voice Over IP is something you may have heard something about. Again, it's kind of coming out of nowhere; it's a little hard to use right now. There's a company created by the Kazaa founders called Skype. Look at these numbers. They launched it in August of last year; they already have nearly four million registered users — that's critical mass. And the same thing's happening on the carrier side. You're looking at IP taking over from some of the traditional telecom standards. This is a tipping point — if Malcolm's here, forgive me — and it's going to change the economics, and the speed, and the players in the industry. It's going to look a little bit like that. And finally, free. Free is really, really interesting. Free is something that comes with digital, because the reproduction costs are essentially free. It comes with IP, because it's such an efficient protocol. It comes with fiber optics, because there's so much bandwidth. Free is really, you know, the gift of Silicon Valley to the world. It's an economic force; it's a technical force. It's a deflationary force, if not handled right. It is abundance, as opposed to scarcity. Free is probably the most interesting thing. And here you have just the number of songs that can be stored on a hard drive. You know, there could be a film's [unclear] there, but it's basically, every song ever made could be stored on 400 dollars worth of storage by 2008. It takes that entire element, the physical element, of songs off the table. And you've seen the numbers. I mean, you know, the music industry is imploding in front of our very eyes, and Hollywood's worried as well. They're facing a force that they haven't faced before. And their response is draconian, and not necessarily the one that's going to get them out of this. And finally, I'll give you one last example of free — perhaps the most powerful of all. I mentioned fiber optics — their abundance tends to make things free. This is the price of a phone call to India per minute. And what's interesting is that it was just 1990 when it was more than two dollars a minute. India had, still has, a regulated phone system and so did we. It was surprisingly non-innovative, moved very slowly, but then there was just so much fiber out there, you couldn't hold back, and look how quickly the price fell. It's seven cents a minute, in many cases. And the consequence of cheap phone calling, free phone calling, to India, is the pissed-off programmer, is the outsourcing. It is probably one of the most dramatic shifts in globalization and one of the most powerful economic tools that we're seeing in our world today. The force of India, and then China, and any other country that can contact our markets and will work with our companies — because the communications are free — is just beginning to be felt. And I think that's probably one of the most important technology trends that we're looking at today. Thank you."	"我想談談科技的發展趨勢這是很多人會去關注我們因為相關性，所以很關注顯然地，出版科技雜誌""科技趨勢""是我們撰寫的內容，我們需要去瞭解 但是它也像一本月刊你們在未來　而我們需要長時間來籌備我們每一期雜誌都是幾個月前就需要準備我們需要揣測六個月以後公眾的閱讀口味甚至九個月以後的,所以我們做的是預測工作 我們也和其他公司一樣，創造產品是以科技趨勢為基礎的產品在這種情況下，我們的產品是想法和訊息，如果幸運的話還有一些娛樂，但概念都是一樣的所以我們需要了解科技為何重要，它將往何處發展更重要的是，什麼時間點﹣時間就是一切 有趣的是，當你回顧一些預測90年代景氣時,那些關於電子商務的分析或是網路流量，或是宽頻應用或是網路廣告的預言都是正確的，只是，預測的時間點不對幾乎都是在幾年後預測才成真但幾年的差異，在股價上所造成的影響顯然是相當巨大，所以，時間點是一切 你以前可能也看過這個這是經典的Gartner「炒作週期」的曲線模型,它談到了技術生命週期的軌跡為了好玩，我們在上面放了很多技術來展示它們是正往上邁向第一個頂點還是往下毀滅跌入幻滅的谷底或是回到啟示的上坡，還是...等等這是一種預測技術走勢的方法,估算一下技術在哪裡，然後預測下一個轉機 我們傾向去分析我們認為足夠重要的技術我們通常做兩次，一次是為了搶先我們為了那些喜歡獲取這類資訊的奇客而搶先我們會在技術的觸發期報導這些各位可以看到在1997我們就把Linux當成封面故事但回過來，任何非常重要的技術都會進入主流，然後爆發所以，去年就是再做一次的好時機這是我們試著去為技術分析時間趨勢的一種方法 我想談談我們分析科技趨勢的一種方法我稱之為預測未來的宏大「大統一理論」但其實它更接近預言未來的袖珍統一理論它是基於假設，甚至是基於觀察那就是： 所有的重要技術都經歴過四個階段至少四個中的一階段，有時四個都有當中的每一個階段都可以視為一次的撞擊一次與其他事物的撞擊比如，一個關鍵的價格線會改變技術也會改變它對世界的影響，這是一個轉捩點這些轉捩點會告訴你這項技術發展的下一段篇章是什麼以及也許你和這些新技術有什麼相關 首先是關鍵的價格技術發展的第一階段就是它的價格降到關鍵價格以下當它低於關鍵價格以後，往往會如果它是一種成功的技術，它就會超越臨界質量，形成突破很多技術在各這個時候就取代了另一個技術這也是另外一個重點最後，很多技術商品化接近它們生命週期的尾聲時，它們就幾乎成為免費 這其中， 每個階段都提供了機會給我們它是一個技術改變的機會即便是你錯過了第一階段，比如第一波Wi-Fi 熱潮你知道，Wi-Fi經歷了臨界價格和臨界質量兩個階段但是它還未進入取代階段，更還没到達免费的階段 ─所以其中還有許多機會 我想用DVD的故事來说明我想表達的意思因為這個技術已經經歷了所有這些階段眾所周知，DVD 在九十年代中期開始進入市場那時它還很貴。但是到了1998年它的價格跌到了400美元以下，400美元是個關鍵的心理價位於是它開始起飛了，你們可以看見產品銷量呈上升趨勢，這是一個潛在的轉折點，從此迅速上升 一年以後，它進入下一個階段，也就是臨界量通常，20% 的家庭擁有率是技術達到臨界量的一個合理標誌有趣的是另一個隨之起飛的是家庭劇院設備突然你家裡有了DVD你有了高畫質的數位影片你也就有了購買大螢幕電視的理由有了購買杜比5.1 環繞立體聲系統的理由你也有了把它們連結在一起並也連接起其他娛樂設備的理由有趣的是，Netflix 是1999 年成立的Reed Hastings 今天也在這裡。他當時清楚地看到了這一刻這是一個他可以有所做為的轉折點 下一個階段就是取代你们可以看到，到了2001年，它的銷售量超越了錄影機從這裡，你可以縱觀這在全球的影響Netflix 是對的，Netflix 可以用一種錄影帶出租店無法經營的模式來經營DVD眾多特點之一就是它很小你可以把它放在信件裡，郵資便宜這就是優勢，這種技術的崛起並不是那麼顯而易見 最後呢，DVD放映機幾乎接近免費有一個叫Apex的公司，一個默默無聞的中國公司在過去的幾年裡，已經好幾次成了DVD在美國銷售的大戶。去年它們的平均價格是48美元你大概也知道沃爾瑪曾用難以置信的30美元的低價DVD機來吸引大促銷時的狂潮但是，它們的確變得非常便宜結果，當它變得很便宜高價的品牌，比如Sony, 就失去了市場占有率而沒有名的Apex們，則獲得市場它們被商品化了，這就是當事物觸及最低點時會發生情形。市場競争是残酷的（笑聲） 現在，介绍了看待技術的四種方法：技術的四個發展階段我再想說一下另外一些技術我们一直關注的一些技術，我將用這些鏡頭這四個發展階段，來告訴你每一種技術在發展的哪個階段它們不一定是最頂尖的前10種技術它們只是正處於其中一種階段的例子。但是我覺得思考它們走往這些十字路口，這些交集後產生的影響,是很有趣的。 先從基因測序談起如你所知，大部分的基因測序是在電腦上做的，因此價格正在像摩爾定律預測的那樣下跌現在這已經是可能的 ─ 將是可能的，如果 Craig Venter 今天能來他會告訴你到今年年底，只要4千萬美元就可以完成人類基因排序在幾年前，這需要幾十億你們知道，我們已經越來越接近創造天地萬物的工具 有趣的是，我們發現的基因数量也迅速地增長每一種基因都有診斷試驗的潛力终有一天當成千上萬的試驗可以很廉價地完成時如果你感興趣，你可以了解你的基因鑲嵌 這裡是另一個技術接近關鍵價格的例子世界衛生組織一項令人驚喜的研究展現了非專利藥對治療愛滋病的抗逆轉錄病毒複合藥和雞尾酒藥的影響2000年1月時，它的價格是1萬美元，也就是27美元一天非專利藥最先是從巴西引進的它對價格的影響是引入注目的今天它的價格已經是低於 一天50分（美元）最有意思的是，如果你觀察價格彈性如果你觀察兩者的相互關係抗逆轉錄病藥的價格下降，能夠得到治療的人數就急劇上升。克林頓基金會和世界衛生組織相信到2005年　全世界3百萬人將可獲治療其中2百萬在撒哈拉以南的非洲藥價的降低　起了很大的作用 Linux 是另外一个例子現在我們換過來講臨界質量有一些技術現在將到達臨界質量你看這裡，Linux是红色的，它到達了20%，有趣的是，它們以前也交叉過但是那個交叉並不重要重要的是和藍線的交叉但是你可以看見這些曲線的走向你可以看見到了20%，它就顯得有模有樣它不再只是奇客專用的了我想，這就是讓在Redmond的人們半夜裡輾轉難眠的問題（笑聲） 另外一個在我們週遭存在的技術是混合動力汽車我不知道各位誰有2004年的Prius車，它們真的很不錯你們看看這裡的趨勢：到2008年我覺得這並不是什麼瘋狂的預測它們會佔汽車銷售的百分之二百分之二雖然不是百分之二十，但是對於進步緩慢的汽車行業這就是巨大的發展，而它正在來臨到達百分之二後，它們會在路上隨處可見 而關於混合動力汽車起飛的最有意思的是人們將電動馬達引入了汽車工業這是100年來汽車工業技術的首要重大改變而有了電動馬達以後，你可以做任何事情：你可以隨意地改變汽車的構造你可以做再生制動，可以做線控驅動系統你可以做可替換的車身 ─從混合動力汽車這一小事開始它會引導汽車業走向一個新時代 你也許聽說過在IP網上傳輸語音這又是一個不知從哪冒出來的東西現在還不太好用Kazza 的創始人建立了一個公司叫 Skype看一下數字，他們是去年8月啟動的現在已經有了4百萬註冊用戶這就是臨界質量同樣的事情在電訊公司也發生了你可以看到IP正在取代傳统的電訊標準，這是一個引爆點如果 Malcom 在這裡的話，請原諒我，這將會改變這個行業的經濟模式，速度，和玩家這個看上去有點像那樣的情況 到最後，免費。免費是真的非常非常有意思免費是隨数位化而產生的因為複制的成本基本上是免費的，免費隨著IP而來因為這是一個非常有效的協議。 免費從光纖技術而來因為它帶來了那麼多的寛頻你要知道，免費才是矽谷帶给世界的禮物這是一股經濟力量，也是一股技術力量如果處理不當， 還會是一股通貨緊縮壓力這是一種豐盛，而不是缺乏免費大概是最有意思的事情 這是你在一個硬碟中能儲存歌曲的數量你知道那還可以用來儲存影片[此处不清]，基本上，到2008年，世界上所有的歌都可以被儲存在一個價值400美元的儲存空間裡，所以，用來儲存歌曲的物質要素已經可以忽略了你也看過這些數字了我的意思是說，整個音樂界正在垮掉，就在我們眼前， 好莱塢也很擔心他們正在面臨一種前所未有的壓力而他們的反應是嚴厲的，但那並不能把他們從中解救出來 最後，我再提供一個免費的例子也是最有力量的一個，我提到過光纖：光纖的興起會使很多事物變免費這是打到印度的國際長途每分鐘的價格有趣的是，這是1990年的價格那時的價格是每分鐘兩塊多美元。印度和我們一樣有常規的電話系统它令人吃驚地缺乏創造力，發展缓慢然而因為光纖多得到處都是了你想不發展也不行，所以你看價格跌得非常快。通常現在是一分鐘7角美元 而便宜電話費甚至免費電話引發的结果呢對印度而言，是怨氣衝天的程式員，是工作外包，這大概是全球化中最戲劇性的轉變也是如今我們世界上最有力的經濟工具印度，中國，和任何其他國家的人都可以聯絡我們的市場通訊免費使他們可以和我們的公司合作 ─ 這股影響力才剛剛被我們所知而我認為，這也許就是我們今天應該關注的最重要的技術趨勢謝謝"
