Talk	en	zh-tw
christopher_m00t_poole_the_case_for_anonymity_online	"Tom Green: That's a 4chan thing. These kids on the Internet, they have this group of kids and they like to say funny words like ""barrel roll."" It's a video game move from ""Star Fox."" ""Star Fox 20""? (Assistant: ""Star Fox 64."") Tom Green: Yeah. And they've been dogging me for a year. I got to tell you, it's driving me nuts, actually. Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and I scream, ""4chan!"" Christopher Poole: When I was 15, I found this website called Futaba Channel. And it was a Japanese forum and imageboard. That format of forum, at that time, was not well-known outside of Japan. And so what I did is I took it, I translated it into English, and I stuck it up for my friends to use. Now, six and a half years later, over seven million people are using it, contributing over 700,000 posts per day. And we've gone from one board to 48 boards. This is what it looks like. So, what's unique about the site is that it's anonymous, and it has no memory. There's no archive, there are no barriers, there's no registration. These things that we're used to with forums don't exist on 4chan. And that's led to this discussion that's completely raw, completely unfiltered. What the site's known for, because it has this environment, is it's fostered the creation of a lot of Internet phenomena, viral videos and whatnot, known as ""memes."" Two of the largest memes that have come out of this site some of you might be familiar with are these LOLcats — just silly pictures of cats with text. And this resonates with millions of people, apparently, because there are tens of thousands of these, and there is a whole blogging empire now dedicated to pictures like these. And Rick Astley's kind of rebirth these past two years ... Rickroll was this bait and switch, really simple, classic bait and switch. Somebody says they're linking to something interesting, and you get an '80s pop song. That's all it was. And it got big enough to the point where there was a float last year at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade, and Rick Astley pops out, and rickrolls millions of people on television. (Laughter) There are thousands of memes that come out of the site. There are a handful that have escaped into the mainstream, the ones I've just shown you, but every day, every month, people are producing thousands of these. So does a site like this have rules? We do; they're the codified rules that I've come up with, which are more-or-less ignored by the community. And so they've come up with their own set of rules, the ""Rules of the Internet."" And so there are three that I want to show you specifically. Rule one is you don't talk about /b/. Two is you do not talk about /b/. And this one's kind of interesting: ""If it exists, there is porn of it. No exceptions."" (Laughter) And I will spare you that slide. I assure you, it is very true. /b/ is the first board we started with, and it is, in many ways, the beating heart of the website. It is where a third of all the traffic is going. And /b/ is known for, more than anything, not just the memes they've created, but the exploits. And Chris just touched on one of those a second ago, and that was the Time 100 poll. So somebody at Time, at the magazine, thought it would be fun to nominate me for this thing they did last year. And so they placed me on it, and the Internet got wind of it. My community decided they wanted me to win it. I didn't instruct them to do it; they just decided that that's what they wanted. And so, you know, 390 percent approval rating ain't so bad. (Laughter) So they broke that poll. And I ended up on top. I ended up at this really fancy party. But that's not what's interesting about this. It's that they weren't putting me at the top of this list; they were actually — it got so sophisticated to the point where they gamed all of the top 21 places to spell ""mARBLECAKE. ALSO, THE GAME."" (Laughter) The amount of time and effort that went into that is absolutely incredible. And ""marble cake"" is significant because it is the channel that this group called Anonymous organized. Anonymous is this group of people that protested, very famously, Scientology. The story is, Scientology had this embarrassing video of Tom Cruise. It went up online. They got it taken offline and managed to piss off part of the Internet. And so these people, over 7,000 people, less than one month later, organized in a hundred cities around the globe and — this is L.A. — protested the Church of Scientology, and they have continued to do so, now, two full years after the fact. They are still protesting. (Laughter) So we've got this activist group that's this grassroots group that's come out of the site. And last, I'm going to show you the example, the story of Dusty the cat. Dusty is the name that we've given to this cat. This young man posted a video of him abusing his cat on YouTube. And, you know, this didn't sit well with people, and so there was this outpouring of support for people to do something about this. So what they did is they — I mean, they put CSI to shame here — the Internet detectives came out. They matched, they found his MySpace. They took the YouTube video and they mashed everything in the video. Within 24 hours, they had his name, and within 48 hours, he was arrested. (Applause) And so, what I think is really intriguing about a community like 4chan is just that it's this open place. As I said, it's raw, it's unfiltered. And sites like it are kind of going the way of the dinosaur right now. They're endangered because we're moving towards social networking. We're moving towards persistent identity. We're moving towards, you know, a lack of privacy, really. We're sacrificing a lot of that, and I think in doing so, moving towards those things, we're losing something valuable. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. Got a couple questions for you. But if I ask them, is the TED website going to go down? CP: You're lucky that this is not being streamed to them live right now. CA: Well, you never know. Some of them — we've got people in 75 countries out there watching. Don't tell. But seriously, this issue on anonymity is — I mean, you made the case there. But anonymity basically allows people to say anything, all the rules gone. You've had to wrestle with issues like child pornography. And I'm just curious whether you sometimes lie awake in the night worrying that you've opened Pandora's box. CP: Yes and no. I mean, for as much good that kind of comes out of this environment, there is plenty of bad. There are plenty of downsides. But I think that the greater good is being served here by just allowing people — there are very few places, now, where you can go and not have identity, to be completely anonymous and say whatever you'd like. And saying whatever you like, I think, is powerful. Doing whatever you like is now crossing a line. But I think it's important to have these places. When I get emails, people say, ""Thank you for giving me this place, this outlet, where I can come after work and be myself."" CA: But words, saying things, you know, can be constructive; it can be really damaging. And if you cut the link between what is said and any attribution back to you, I mean, surely there are huge risks with that. CP: There are, certainly. But — CA: Tell me about what — I mean, I think you asked the board what you might say at TED, right? CP: Yeah, I posted a thread on Sunday. And within 24 hours, it had over 12,000 responses. And the thing is, I didn't make it into that presentation because I can't read to you anything that they said, more or less. (Laughter) 99 percent of it is just, would have been, you know, bleeped out. But there were some good things that came out of that too. (Laughter) Love and peace were mentioned. CA: Love and peace were mentioned, kind of with quote marks around them, right? CP: Cats and dogs were mentioned too. CA: And that content is all off the board now. Right, it's gone? Or is it still up there? CP: I stuck that thread so it lasted a few days. It went up to about 16,000 posts, and now it has been taken off. CA: Okay, well. Now, I'm not sure I would have necessarily recommended everyone at TED to go and check it out anyway. Chris, you yourself? I mean, you're a figure of some intrigue. You've got this surprising semi-underground influence, but it's not making you a lot of money, yet. What's the commercial picture here? CP: The commercial picture is that there really isn't much of one, I guess. The site has adult content on it. I mean, obviously, it's got some very offensive, obscene content on it, just in terms of language alone. And when you've got that, you've pretty much sacrificed any hope of making lots of money. CA: But you still live at home, right? CP: I actually moved out recently. CA: That's very cool. (Applause) CP: I got out of Mom's, and I'm back in school right now. CA: But what conversations did you or do you have with your mother about 4chan? CP: At first, very kind of pained, awkward conversations. The content is not dinner table conversation in the least. But my parents — I think part of why they kind of are able to appreciate it is because they don't understand it. (Laughter) CA: And they were probably pleased to see you on top of the Time poll. CP: Yeah. They still didn't know what to think of that though. (Laughter) CA: And so, in 10 years' time, what do you picture yourself doing? CP: That's a good question. As I said, I just went back to school, and I am considering majoring in urban studies and then going on to urban planning, kind of taking whatever I've learned from online communities and trying to adapt that to a physical community. CA: Chris, thank you. Absolutely fascinating. Thank you for coming to TED."	"那是4chan的東西網路上有群年輕人喜歡說些“火星話”像是""barrel roll""（星際穿梭）。那是遊戲《星戰火狐》裡面的動作。《星戰火狐20》?（《星戰火狐64》）對，然後他們糾纏了我一年。簡直快把我逼瘋。我甚至會在半夜醒來大叫：""4chan！"" 我15歲的時候發現了Futaba Channel這個網站。那是一個日本的論壇和影像佈告欄。當時那種論壇的型式除了日本以外很少見。所以我就做了一個英文版的，然後推薦給親朋好友。六年半後的今天，4chan的用戶已經超過七百萬人，每天有超過70萬則貼文。而且我們已經從一個討論版擴充到48個討論版。 這就是4chan的頁面。它的特色在於它的匿名性，還有它不會保留任何紀錄。沒有存檔、沒有限制、不用註冊。這些在一般論壇很常見的東西4chan都沒有。所以就產生了這些赤裸裸、完全未經過濾的討論串。4chan之所以紅，是因為它提供的這種環境創造了許多網路爆紅現象（例如kuso短片）。 從4chan出來的兩大當紅炸子雞，你們有人可能已經知道，首先是LOLcats－－就是些搞笑的貓咪照片加上設計對白。顯然有很多人喜歡，因為網路上有好幾萬張這種照片，而且已經發展出一個部落格帝國，專門放這種照片。再來是Rick Astley這兩年又再度竄紅...Rickroll指的就是用偽連結惡搞，非常簡單又歷久不衰的手法某人說連結點進去是有趣的東西，結果你看到的是80年代的流行歌。就這樣。Rickroll現象紅到，去年梅西百貨的感恩節遊行裡就有個氣墊花車上面突然出現Rick Astley的現場表演“rickroll”了電視機前的幾百萬觀眾。（笑聲） 4chan創造了上千個網路爆紅現象。有些甚至紅到主流媒體，像是我剛舉的那兩個例子，但無時無刻網友都在製造一堆這種東西。 所以這種網站有使用規則嗎？有的；我定了一組規則，只是沒人要理。而且網友做了另一個版本，叫作《網路使用守則》。我特別挑出三條給你們看。第一條，不要提/b/。第二條，千萬不要提/b/。下一條還蠻有趣：『有它就有色情，絕無例外。』（笑聲）我就不給你們看那張投影片了。但我保證他們所言不假。 /b/是創站的第一個討論版，從很多方面來看，它都是這個網站的核心，占了4chan三分之一的流量。/b/最出名的地方不只是它創造的網路爆紅現象，而是網路漏洞。Chris剛剛才提到其中一個例子，就是《時代》百大人物票選。《時代》雜誌的某個人看到網友去年做的這件事，覺得提名我可能會很有趣，就把我放在名單上。網友知道後，決定讓我贏得票選。我沒有叫他們這麼做，這完全是自發性的。所以百分之三百九十的支持率還不算太差。（笑聲）他們竄改民調，讓我勇奪冠軍寶座。我參加了這個非常奢華的派對。 這還不是有趣的地方。有趣的是，他們不是要把我擺到第一名，他們實際上－－厲害到可以設計得名者的順序使前21名的字首排起來是「mARBLECAKE. ALSO, THE GAME」（4Chan二大招牌）（笑聲）惡搞這個所耗費的時間和精力絕對非常多。""marble cake""的重要性在於它是由這個名為“匿名”的團體所組成的平台而這一群人，就是反對山塔基教（科學教）最著名的一個團體事情是這樣的：山塔基教有段湯姆克魯斯的可笑影片流到網路上他們把影片拿掉時激怒了部分網民於是有超過7,000人在一個月内在世界各地上百個城市裏組織了—這是洛杉磯—抗議山塔基教的活動這抗議持續進行如今二年過去了他們還在抗議（笑聲）所以我們網站有出這種草根行動派的團體 最後，我要給你們看的例子是Dusty貓的故事Dusty是我們幫這隻貓取的名字這個年輕人上傳了一段他自己虐貓的影片到YouTube惹毛了很多人於是很多人跳出來呼籲有能者想想辦法而這些人做到的—足以令C.S.I蒙羞—網路偵探出動經過比對，找到那個人的MySpace他們仔細過濾影片中的每個細節在24小時内就查出他的名字48小時内，那個人就被逮捕了 （掌聲） 我認爲像4chan這樣的社群最讓人省思的就是它提供的開放空間是赤裸裸、未經過濾的而像這樣的網站正步上恐龍的後塵他們快絕種是因為現在社交網站是主流我們正往永久身份邁進整個大方向是你知道，完全缺乏隱私我們犧牲了很多隱私，而且我認爲如此一來我們也失去了一些寶貴的東西 謝謝大家 （掌聲） （Chris Anderson）謝謝一些問題想請教您不過如果我問了，TED網站會有事嗎？ 你運氣不錯這場演講沒有在網上直播 難説吧，有些人—我們的觀衆可是遍及75國別説出去言歸正傳，關於匿名的問題你的論點很清楚但匿名基本上就是讓人想說什麽就說什麽所有的規則都不存在了你曾經得處理像兒童色情這類的問題所以我很好奇你有沒有曾經半夜睡不着擔心自己打開了潘多拉的盒子？ 是，也不是在這個環境裏出了很多好東西當然也有很多壞東西儘管有缺點，我認爲更崇高的目標應該是讓大家—有地方讓你可以不用表明身份，完全匿名然後暢所欲言暢所欲言是一件很有力的事爲所欲爲才太超過但我認爲有這些地方是很重要的我就常收到email說：“謝謝你提供這個地方，這個抒發的管道讓我可以在下班後做我自己。” 但是語言可以載舟，也可以覆舟如果你把自己跟說過的話做切割（不負言論責任）當然這有很大的風險 當然但是— 來談談這個吧—聽説你在版上問在TED要講些什麽對吧？ 是的，星期天時我發了一個帖24小時内就有1萬2千多個回覆重點是，我都沒採納因爲我不能把内容念給你們聼（笑聲）如果我念了，99%的内容都會被消音但還是有些不錯的内容（笑聲）像愛與和平就被提到 “愛”與“和平”，應該不是字面意義那麽簡單吧？ 貓跟狗也被提到那些内容都已經移除了吧還是還在？ 我保留了我的原帖，所以討論又延續了幾天總文章數大約有1萬6千篇現在都已經移除了 好反正我也不確定該不該建議所有TED人去看一看你的討論版談談你自己吧，Chris，你是個神秘人物你的“半地下”影響力讓人驚訝可是這還沒能讓你發財你的市場規劃是什麽？ 市場規劃就是，我想，沒有什麽市場規劃這個網站有成人内容有些非常限制級光是語言就很色情當你有這些内容在，你就犧牲了賺大錢的機會 你還住在家裏對吧？ 事實上我最近剛搬出來 酷 （掌聲） 我不跟我媽住了，而且我恢復了學生身份 但你都跟令堂怎麽說4chan？ 一開始有點痛苦，感覺怪怪的這種内容本來就不是什麽餐桌上的對話但是我父母—我想他們能欣賞我說的話是因為他們聼不懂（笑聲）而且他們應該很高興看到你登上時代百大的第一名 是，但他們還是不知道該作何感想 （笑聲） 十年後，你覺得自己會做什麽？ 這是個好問題我剛回復學生身份現在正考慮主修都市研究然後再進修都市計劃把我從社群網站上學到的東西試著應用在實體社會裏 謝謝你，Chris。演講太棒了！謝謝你來到TED。"
