Talk	en	zh-tw
chris_hadfield_what_i_learned_from_going_blind_in_space	"What's the scariest thing you've ever done? Or another way to say it is, what's the most dangerous  thing that you've ever done? And why did you do it? I know what the most dangerous thing is that I've ever done because NASA does the math. You look back to the first five shuttle launches, the odds of a catastrophic event during the first five shuttle launches was one in nine. And even when I first flew in the shuttle back in 1995, 74 shuttle flight, the odds were still now that we look back about one in 38 or so — one in 35, one in 40. Not great odds, so it's a really interesting day when you wake up at the Kennedy Space Center and you're going to go to space that day because you realize by the end of the day you're either going to be floating  effortlessly, gloriously in space, or you'll be dead. You go into, at the Kennedy Space Center, the suit-up room, the same room that our childhood heroes got dressed in, that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin got suited in to go ride the Apollo rocket to the moon. And I got my pressure suit built around me and rode down outside in the van heading out to the launchpad — in the Astro van — heading out to the launchpad, and as you come around the corner at the Kennedy Space Center, it's normally predawn, and in the distance, lit up by the huge xenon lights, is your spaceship — the vehicle that is going to take you off the planet. The crew is sitting in the Astro van sort of hushed, almost holding hands, looking at that as it gets bigger and bigger. We ride the elevator up and we crawl in, on your hands and knees into the spaceship, one at a time, and you worm your way up into your chair and plunk yourself down on your back. And the hatch is closed, and suddenly, what has been a lifetime of both dreams and denial is becoming real, something that I dreamed about, in fact, that I chose to do when I was nine years old, is now suddenly within not too many minutes of actually happening. In the astronaut business — the shuttle is a very complicated vehicle; it's the most complicated flying machine ever built. And in the astronaut business,  we have a saying, which is, there is no problem so bad that you can't make it worse. (Laughter) And so you're very conscious in the cockpit; you're thinking about all of the things that you might have to do, all the switches and all the  wickets you have to go through. And as the time gets closer and closer, this excitement is building. And then about three and a  half minutes before launch, the huge nozzles on the back, like the size of big church bells, swing back and forth and the mass of them is such that it sways the whole vehicle, like the vehicle is alive underneath you, like an elephant getting up  off its knees or something. And then about 30 seconds before launch, the vehicle is completely alive — it is ready to go — the APUs are running, the computers are all self-contained, it's ready to leave the planet. And 15 seconds before launch, this happens: (Video) Voice: 12, 11, 10, nine, eight, seven, six — (Space shuttle preparing for takeoff) — start, two, one, booster ignition, and liftoff of  the space shuttle Discovery, returning to the space station, paving the way ... (Space shuttle taking off) Chris Hadfield: It is incredibly powerful to be on board one of these things. You are in the grip of something that is vastly more powerful than yourself. It's shaking you so hard you can't focus on the instruments in front of you. It's like you're in the jaws of some enormous dog and there's a foot in the small of your back pushing you into space, accelerating wildly straight up, shouldering your way through the air, and you're in a very complex place — paying attention, watching the vehicle go through each one of its wickets with a steadily increasing smile on your face. After two minutes, those solid rockets explode off and then you just have the liquid engines, the hydrogen and oxygen, and it's as if you're in a dragster with your foot to the floor and accelerating like you've never accelerated. You get lighter and lighter, the force gets on us heavier and heavier. It feels like someone's pouring cement on you or something. Until finally, after about eight minutes and 40 seconds or so, we are finally at exactly the right altitude, exactly the right speed, the right direction, the engine shut off, and we're weightless. And we're alive. It's an amazing experience. But why would we take that risk? Why would you do something that dangerous? In my case the answer is fairly straightforward. I was inspired as a youngster that this was what I wanted to do. I watched the first people walk on the moon and to me, it was just an obvious thing — I want to somehow turn myself into that. But the real question is, how do you deal with the danger of it and the fear that comes from it? How do you deal with fear versus danger? And having the goal in mind, thinking about where it might lead, directed me to a life of looking at all of the small details to allow this to become possible, to be able to launch and go  help build a space station where you are on board a million-pound creation that's going around the world at five miles a second, eight kilometers a second, around the world 16 times a day, with experiments on board that are teaching us what the substance of the universe is made of and running 200 experiments inside. But maybe even more importantly, allowing us to see the world in a way that is impossible through any other means, to be able to look down and have — if your jaw could drop, it would — the jaw-dropping gorgeousness of the turning orb like a self-propelled art gallery of fantastic, constantly changing beauty that is the world itself. And you see, because of the speed, a sunrise or a sunset every 45 minutes for half a year. And the most magnificent part of all that is to go outside on a spacewalk. You are in a one-person spaceship that is your spacesuit, and you're going through space with the world. It's an entirely different perspective, you're not looking up at the universe, you and the Earth are going  through the universe together. And you're holding on with one hand, looking at the world turn beside you. It's roaring silently with color and texture as it pours by mesmerizingly next to you. And if you can tear your eyes away from that and you look under your arm down at the rest of everything, it's unfathomable blackness, with a texture you feel like you  could stick your hand into. and you are holding on with one hand, one link to the other seven billion people. And I was outside on my first spacewalk when my left eye went blind, and I didn't know why. Suddenly my left eye slammed shut in great pain and I couldn't figure out why my eye wasn't working. I was thinking, what do I do next? I thought, well maybe that's why we have two eyes, so I kept working. But unfortunately, without gravity, tears don't fall. So you just get a bigger and  bigger ball of whatever that is mixed with your tears on your eye until eventually, the ball becomes so big that the surface tension takes it  across the bridge of your nose like a tiny little waterfall and goes ""goosh"" into your other eye, and now I was completely blind outside the spaceship. So what's the scariest thing you've ever done? (Laughter) Maybe it's spiders. A lot of people are afraid of spiders. I think you should be afraid of spiders — spiders are creepy and they've got long, hairy legs, and spiders like this one, the brown recluse — it's horrible. If a brown recluse bites you, you end with one of these  horrible, big necrotic things on your leg and there might be one right now sitting on the chair behind you, in fact. And how do you know? And so a spider lands on you, and you go through this great, spasmy attack because spiders are scary. But then you could say, well  is there a brown recluse sitting on the chair beside me or not? I don't know. Are there brown recluses here? So if you actually do the research, you find out that in the world there are about  50,000 different types of spiders, and there are about two dozen that are venomous out of 50,000. And if you're in Canada, because of the cold winters here in B.C., there's about 720,  730 different types of spiders and there's one — one — that is venomous, and its venom isn't even fatal, it's just kind of like a nasty sting. And that spider — not only that, but that spider has beautiful markings on it, it's like ""I'm dangerous. I got a big radiation  symbol on my back, it's the black widow."" So, if you're even slightly careful you can avoid running into the one spider — and it lives close the ground, you're walking along, you are  never going to go through a spider web where a black widow bites you. Spider webs like this, it doesn't build those, it builds them down in the corners. And its a black widow because the female spider eats the male; it doesn't care about you. So in fact, the next time you walk into a spiderweb, you don't need to panic and go  with your caveman reaction. The danger is entirely different than the fear. How do you get around it, though? How do you change your behavior? Well, next time you see a spiderweb, have a good look, make sure  it's not a black widow spider, and then walk into it. And then you see another spiderweb and walk into that one. It's just a little bit of fluffy stuff. It's not a big deal. And the spider that may come out is  no more threat to you than a lady bug or a butterfly. And then I guarantee you if you  walk through 100 spiderwebs you will have changed your fundamental human behavior, your caveman reaction, and you will now be able to walk  in the park in the morning and not worry about that spiderweb — or into your grandma's attic or whatever, into your own basement. And you can apply this to anything. If you're outside on a spacewalk and you're blinded, your natural reaction would be to panic, I think. It would make you nervous and worried. But we had considered all the venom, and we had practiced with a whole  variety of different spiderwebs. We knew everything there is to know about the spacesuit and we trained underwater thousands of times. And we don't just practice things going right, we practice things going wrong all the time, so that you are constantly walking  through those spiderwebs. And not just underwater, but  also in virtual reality labs with the helmet and the gloves so you feel like it's realistic. So when you finally actually  get outside on a spacewalk, it feels much different than it would if you just went out first time. And even if you're blinded, your natural, panicky reaction doesn't happen. Instead you kind of look around and go, ""Okay, I can't see, but I can hear, I can talk, Scott Parazynski is out here with me. He could come over and help me."" We actually practiced incapacitated crew rescue, so he could float me like a blimp and stuff me into the airlock if he had to. I could find my own way back. It's not nearly as big a deal. And actually, if you keep on crying for a while, whatever that gunk was that's  in your eye starts to dilute and you can start to see again, and Houston, if you negotiate with them, they will let you then keep working. We finished everything on the spacewalk and when we came back inside, Jeff got some cotton batting and took  the crusty stuff around my eyes, and it turned out it was just the anti-fog, sort of a mixture of oil and soap, that got in my eye. And now we use Johnson's No More Tears, which we probably should've been using right from the very beginning. (Laughter) But the key to that is by looking at the difference between perceived danger and actual danger, where is the real risk? What is the real thing that you should be afraid of? Not just a generic fear of bad things happening. You can fundamentally change  your reaction to things so that it allows you to go places and see things and do things that otherwise would be completely denied to you ... where you could see the  hardpan south of the Sahara, or you can see New York City in a way that is almost dreamlike, or the unconscious gingham  of Eastern Europe fields or the Great Lakes as a collection of small puddles. You can see the fault lines of San Francisco and the way the water pours out under the bridge, just entirely different than any other way that you could have if you had not found a way to conquer your fear. You see a beauty that otherwise never would have happened. It's time to come home at the end. This is our spaceship, the Soyuz, that little one. Three of us climb in, and then this spaceship detaches from the station and falls into the atmosphere. These two parts here actually melt, we jettison them and they burn up in the atmosphere. The only part that survives is the little bullet that we're riding in, and it falls into the atmosphere, and in essence you are riding a meteorite home, and riding meteorites is scary, and it ought to be. But instead of riding into the atmosphere just screaming, like you would if suddenly you found yourself riding a meteorite back to Earth — (Laughter) — instead, 20 years previously we had started studying Russian, and then once you learn Russian, then we learned orbital mechanics in Russian, and then we learned vehicle control theory, and then we got into the simulator and practiced over and over and over again. And in fact, you can fly this meteorite and steer it and land in about a 15-kilometer circle anywhere on the Earth. So in fact, when our crew was coming back into the atmosphere inside the Soyuz, we weren't screaming, we were laughing; it was fun. And when the great big parachute opened, we knew that if it didn't open there's a second parachute, and it runs on a nice little clockwork mechanism. So we came back, we came thundering back to Earth and this is what it looked like to land in a Soyuz, in Kazakhstan. (Video) Reporter: And you can see one of those search and recovery helicopters, once again that helicopter part of dozen such Russian Mi-8 helicopters. Touchdown — 3:14 and 48 seconds, a.m. Central Time. CH: And you roll to a stop as if someone threw your  spaceship at the ground and it tumbles end over end, but you're ready for it you're in a custom-built seat, you know how the shock absorber works. And then eventually the Russians reach in, drag you out, plunk you into a chair, and you can now look back at what was an incredible experience. You have taken the dreams of that nine-year-old boy, which were impossible and dauntingly scary, dauntingly terrifying, and put them into practice, and figured out a way to reprogram yourself, to change your primal fear so that it allowed you to come back with a set of experiences and a level of inspiration for other people that never could have been possible otherwise. Just to finish, they asked me to play that guitar. I know this song, and it's really a tribute to the genius of David Bowie himself, but it's also, I think, a reflection of the fact that we are not machines exploring the universe, we are people, and we're taking that ability to adapt and that ability to understand and the ability to take our own self-perception into a new place. (Music) ♫ This is Major Tom to ground control ♫ ♫ I've left forevermore ♫ ♫ And I'm floating in a most peculiar way ♫ ♫ And the stars look very different today ♫ ♫ For here am I floating in the tin can ♫ ♫ A last glimpse of the world ♫ ♫ Planet Earth is blue and  there's so much left to do ♫ (Music) Fear not. (Applause) That's very nice of you. Thank you very much. Thank you."	你做過最可怕的事情是什麼？或者換個說法，你做過最危險的事情是什麼？你為什麼要做？我知道我到目前為止所做過最危險的事情，因為那是美國太空總署算出來的。你回想最初五次太空梭發射發生災難的機率，在那五次發射當中是九分之一。即使在我首次登上太空梭那一年，1995 年編號 74 的太空梭飛行任務，現在我們回頭看，機率仍然有大約 1/38…1/35 或 1/40。機率不算很高，所以那天真的很有意思。你在甘迺迪太空中心醒來，當天就要升上太空，因為你了解在那一天的終了時，你要不就是毫不費力光榮地在太空中飄浮著，要不就是死了。你在甘迺迪太空中心走進太空裝的著裝室，那也是我們童年時嚮往的英雄著裝的地方，尼爾·阿姆斯壯及伯茲·艾德林在那裡穿上太空裝後，駕駛阿波羅號太空船奔向月球。而我被加壓的太空裝包裹著，到外面乘坐廂型車往發射台直奔──在太空號廂型車內──向發射台直奔，當你快到甘迺迪太空中心的轉角處時，通常是在黎明前，遠處被巨大氙氣燈照亮著的就是你的太空船──那即將帶著你離開地球的飛行器。機組員坐在太空號車中，一片靜默，幾乎是手牽著手，看著那太空船變得愈來愈大。我們搭電梯上去，然後匍匐前進，四肢著地爬入太空船，一次一個人，而你蠕行向上爬進你的座位，砰的一聲背靠著坐下。接著艙口關了，突然間，你一輩子的夢想及否定就要成真，我夢想的這件事，其實是在我九歲就選擇要做的事，現在突然在短短幾分鐘內就要實現了。在太空人這行──太空梭是很複雜的飛行器，它是史上最複雜的飛行機器。在太空人這行有句玩笑話是這麼說的，事情還沒壞到最高點，你還可以把它搞得更糟。（笑聲）所以在座艙內你的意識非常清楚，你心中想著各種你大概得做的事，所有的開關，所有要通過的關卡。隨著時間愈來愈接近，興奮的情緒逐漸增加。然後大約在發射前三分半鐘，背後那跟大型教堂鐘一樣大的巨大噴嘴來回擺動著，這一大團東西搖晃著整個飛行器，好像這個飛行器在你底下活起來，就像跪著的大象站起來似的。然後發射前 30 秒飛行器完全活過來──準備好要起飛了──輔助動力系統正在運作，電腦也很完備，準備好要離開地球。然後發射前 15 秒，這個情景出現：（影片）聲音：12、11、10、九、八、七、六──（太空梭準備起飛）──開始、二、一，助推器點火，發現號太空梭升空，回到太空站，為未來鋪路。（太空梭起飛） 克：這真的很強，能登上這東西。你在一件遠超過你能力所及的東西的掌握之中，它晃動得這麼厲害使你無法專注在你面前的儀器上。就像一條碩大的狗對你張牙舞爪，又有一隻腳正抵著你的後腰背，推著你上太空，瘋狂加速直線向上，在空氣中推擠出一條路，而你處在一個非常複雜的地方，要專心、要看著飛行器，經過一道道關卡，而你的臉上綻放的微笑愈來愈大。兩分鐘後，固態火箭助推器爆炸脫落，所以你只剩液態引擎，氫氣及氧氣，就好像你在高速賽車中，你的腳踩在車底，然後以你從沒經歷過的高速加速，你愈來愈輕，但重力拉著我們卻愈來愈重。這感覺就像有人在你身上倒水泥或什麼的。直到最後，大約八分 40 秒左右，我們終於到達合適的高度，到達合適的速度，合適的方向，關掉引擎，我們變成失重狀態。而且我們還活著。 這是非常奇妙的經驗。但我們為什麼要冒這個風險？你為什麼要做這麼危險的事？ 以我的情況，答案很直接明瞭。我還是年輕小伙子時就被啟發，瞭解到這是我想要做的事。我看著第一批在月球漫步的人，對我而言這是很明顯的事，我想要把自己變成那樣。但現實的問題是你要如何應付它的危險性及它帶來的恐懼感？與危險比較，你要如何應付恐懼？在心裡有了那樣的目標，想著這可能帶來什麼結果，引領我過著一種生活是所有小細節都不肯放過，只要能夢想成真、能夠升空、幫助建造太空站的生活。你登上那座一百萬磅重的作品，以每秒鐘五英里的速度環繞地球，每秒鐘八公里，每天繞地球 16 次。在上面做的實驗讓我們瞭解宇宙是由什麼物質組成，還要在裡頭做 200 個實驗。但也許更重要的是讓我們以一種其他方法都做不到的方式看世界，就是可以俯瞰——如果你的下巴掉得下來，它真的就會掉下來——令人瞠目結舌華麗無比的轉動星球，就像一個會自轉的畫廊掛滿了既奇幻又不斷變化的美麗藝品，即是這世界本身。而因為這樣的速度，每 45 分鐘你就會看到一次日出或日落，持續半年之久。而這行動最棒的部分就是去外面太空漫步。你在一艘單人太空船中，就是你的太空裝，你與世界同步，一同穿過宇宙，這是全然不同的角度，你不是向上觀看宇宙，你是與地球一同穿過宇宙。你以一隻手緊緊抓著，看著在你身旁轉動的世界，它無聲地呼嘯著，傾瀉出各式各樣的顏色及質地在你旁邊，使你萬分著迷。如果你能將視線移開，去看看手臂底下其餘的一切，它是深不可測的黑暗，帶著一種質地，你覺得好像能把你的手伸進去似的。而你以一隻手緊緊抓住那與其他七十億人唯一的連結。我第一次在外面太空漫步時， 我的左眼看不見了，我不知道為什麼。突然我的左眼緊閉，痛得不得了，我搞不清楚為什麼眼睛看不到了。那時我想，我該怎麼辦？我想，說不定這就，是我們有兩隻眼睛的原因，所以我繼續工作。但不幸的是，在沒有重力下眼淚不能掉落。所以就有一球愈來愈大，不知道是什麼的東西混著你的眼淚，直到最後，這顆球變得好大好大，表面張力帶著它越過鼻樑，像個小瀑布似的，然後嘩地流入你另一隻眼，現在我完全看不見了，就在太空船外面。 所以你做過最恐怖的事情是什麼？（笑聲）也許是蜘蛛。很多人很怕蜘蛛，我想你應該要怕蜘蛛，蜘蛛令人毛骨悚然，而且牠們的腿又長又毛，而且像這種蜘蛛，隱居褐蛛，好可怕！如果隱居褐蛛咬你一口，最後會留下很可怕的大塊壞死組織在你的腿上，而現在說不定就有一隻其實在你後面的椅子上坐著。你怎麼會知道？所以一隻蜘蛛落到你身上，而你經歷一場大痙攣似的攻擊，因為蜘蛛很可怕。但你也可能這麼問，喂，到底有沒有隱居褐蛛坐在我旁邊的椅子上？我不知道。有看到隱居褐蛛嗎？所以如果你真的做研究，你會發現這世界有大約五萬種不同的蜘蛛，而在這五萬種中大約有兩打是有毒的。如果你是加拿大人，因為冬天很冷，在卑詩省這裡有大約 720、730 種不同的蜘蛛，只有一種，一種是有毒的，而且這種毒還不會致命，它只是個討厭的東西。而那種蜘蛛──不僅如此，那種蜘蛛身上有很美的花紋好像在說「我很危險。我背後有很大的輻射標誌，我是黑寡婦。」所以如果你稍微小心一點，你就可以避免碰到這種蜘蛛。牠住的地方離地面很近，你沿著路走，決不會穿越上面有黑寡婦咬你的蜘蛛網下。像這種的蜘蛛網不會那樣編，牠在地上的角落編蜘蛛網。而這是隻黑寡婦，因為雌蜘蛛會吃掉雄蜘蛛，牠一點也不在乎你。所以其實下次你走路碰到蜘蛛網，不用驚慌使出你的原始人反應。危險完全不同於恐懼。 但你要如何避免？你要如何改變你的行為？嗯，下次你看到一張蜘蛛網要仔細看一下，確定那不是黑寡婦的網，然後再穿過它。然後你又看到另一張蜘蛛網，就直接穿過去。那只不過是一張毛毛的東西，沒什麼了不起。而從上面爬出來的蜘蛛對你的威脅也不會比一隻瓢蟲或蝴蝶還大。然後我向你保證，在你穿越 100 張蜘蛛網後，你將會改變你最基本的人類行為，你的原始人反應，你就能一早走進公園，一點都不擔心那些蜘蛛網，或走進你祖母的閣樓、你自己的地下室等等。你可以把這想法應用在各種情況。 如果你在外面太空漫步，然後看不見了，我想你自然的反應會是驚慌。它讓你緊張擔心。但我們已經考量過所有的毒液，我們也對各式蜘蛛網做過練習，我們也充分了解所有關於太空裝的事，我們也在水面下訓練過幾千次了。我們不只練習正常的事，我們也一直在練習不正常的事。所以你不斷地穿過蜘蛛網，不只是在水面下，還在虛擬實境實驗室裡戴著頭盔手套，讓你覺得很真實。所以當你最後真的到外面太空漫步，它會跟你原本第一次到外面時會有的感覺大不相同。即使你看不見了，你本能的驚慌反應也不會發生。你反而會看看四周，「好吧，我看不到了。」「但我還聽得到，可以說話。」「斯科特·帕拉茲斯基也跟我一起在外面。」「他可以過來幫我。」我們真的練習過無行為能力組員救援，所以他可以幫助我像飛艇一樣飄浮，如果有必要還可以把我塞進氣密艙中。我也能自己找到方法回去。這根本不算什麼大不了的事。而且實際上如果你再哭一陣子，無論你眼裡那團黏糊糊的是什麼，都會開始稀釋，你就又看得見了。如果你想跟休士頓指揮中心談判，他們只會叫你繼續工作。那次太空漫步我們完成了每一件事。我們回到裡面的時候，傑夫拿了幾個棉球擦掉我眼旁硬硬的東西，結果發現那只不過是防霧劑，一種油及肥皂的混合物跑到我的眼睛裡。所以現在我們用不流淚配方的嬌生嬰兒洗髮精，或許我們早該從一開始就用那種。（笑聲） 但重點是，透過了解自覺危險及確實危險的差別，哪裡真的有風險？什麼是你真的應該怕的東西？而不是杞人憂天的泛泛恐懼。你可以徹底改變你對事物的反應，所以這使你能去一些地方、看一些東西、做一些事，那些你本來以為徹底無望的事。 在那裡你能看到南撒哈拉的沙礫，或是紐約市，你看到的樣子好像夢幻一般，或是不為人知的東歐方格田野，或是五大湖，看起來就像聚在一起的幾灘小水窪。你能看到舊金山的斷層帶，還有橋下的水傾瀉而出，你所看到的是如此截然不同，是你以前沒有辦法克服恐懼時用盡方法也看不到的。你見到的美是你以前絕對看不到的。 最後該回家了。這是我們的太空船，聯盟號，小的那個。我們三個爬進去，然後這艘太空船與太空站分離，掉進大氣層。這邊的兩個部分其實會熔掉，我們拋掉它們，它們會在大氣層燒掉。留下來的部分只有這個小子彈船艙，我們乘坐在裡面，它掉進大氣層。基本上，你是乘著隕石回家，乘著隕石是很恐怖的，它本當如此。但與其尖叫著乘著隕石進入大氣層，就像你突然發現你是坐在一顆隕石上回到地球，──（笑聲）──與其這樣，在 20 年前我們就開始學俄語，一旦你學會了俄語，我們就開始以俄語學太空動力學，然後我們又學飛行器控制理論，然後我們進入模擬器，一遍又一遍地練習。事實上，你的確可以駕著這顆隕石飛，操縱它降落在直徑 15 公里的圓內「在地球上的任何地方。所以當我們機組員坐在聯合號，要回到大氣層時，我們沒有尖叫，我們反而在笑，好好玩。當那個很大的降落傘打開的時候，我們知道如果它沒打開還有第二個降落傘，它靠一個精細的小發條機制運作。所以我們回來，我們呼嘯著回到地球，而這就是我們乘聯合號降落在哈薩克的樣子。（影片）記者：你能看見其中一架搜救直升機，再說一次，那架直升機是俄羅斯Mi-8 河馬直升機機隊之一。著陸── 3 點 14 分 48 秒，中部時間清晨。克：你滾了幾次才停，就像有人把你的太空船丟到地上，它從這端滾到那端，但你是準備好的，你坐在特製的椅子上，你知道避震器怎麼運作，最後俄國人終於找到你，把你拉出來，使勁把你塞進一張椅子上，現在你可以回頭看看過去那不可思議的經驗。你已經把那個九歲小男孩的夢想，本來不可能實現，而且還很嚇人、很恐怖的夢想，現在卻實現了，也搞清楚方法重新改造自己，改變你的原始恐懼，讓你能活著回來，帶著豐富的經驗及啟示傳授給別人，那是以前完全不可能發生的事。他們要求我彈那把吉他來結尾。我知道這首歌。這其實是要獻給天才大衛·鮑伊他自己，但我想，這同時也反映一項事實，就是我們不是在宇宙中探險的機器，我們是人，而且我們帶著適應的能力及了解的能力，還有能力帶著我們自己的自我認知到新的境界。（音樂）♫ 湯姆少校呼叫地面控制中心 ♫♫ 我永遠離開了 ♫♫ 我以最奇特的方式飄浮著 ♫♫ 今天星星看起來非常不一樣 ♫♫ 我在這小艇裡飄浮著 ♫♫ 對這世界最後一瞥 ♫♫ 地球湛藍，還要好多事要做 ♫（音樂）不要懼怕（掌聲）你們真好，非常感謝。謝謝。
