Talk	en	zh-tw
chrystia_freeland_the_rise_of_the_new_global_super_rich	"So here's the most important economic fact of our time. We are living in an age of surging income inequality, particularly between those at the very top and everyone else. This shift is the most striking in the U.S. and in the U.K., but it's a global phenomenon. It's happening in communist China, in formerly communist Russia, it's happening in India, in my own native Canada. We're even seeing it in cozy social democracies like Sweden, Finland and Germany. Let me give you a few numbers to place what's happening. In the 1970s, the One Percent accounted for about 10 percent of the national income in the United States. Today, their share has more than doubled to above 20 percent. But what's even more striking is what's happening at the very tippy top of the income distribution. The 0.1 percent in the U.S. today account for more than eight percent of the national income. They are where the One Percent was 30 years ago. Let me give you another number to put that in perspective, and this is a figure that was calculated in 2005 by Robert Reich, the Secretary of Labor in the Clinton administration. Reich took the wealth of two admittedly very rich men, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, and he found that it was equivalent to the wealth of the bottom 40 percent of the U.S. population, 120 million people. Now, as it happens, Warren Buffett is not only himself a plutocrat, he is one of the most astute observers of that phenomenon, and he has his own favorite number. Buffett likes to point out that in 1992, the combined wealth of the people on the Forbes 400 list — and this is the list of the 400 richest Americans — was 300 billion dollars. Just think about it. You didn't even need to be a billionaire to get on that list in 1992. Well, today, that figure has more than quintupled to 1.7 trillion, and I probably don't need to tell you that we haven't seen anything similar happen to the middle class, whose wealth has stagnated if not actually decreased. So we're living in the age of the global plutocracy, but we've been slow to notice it. One of the reasons, I think, is a sort of boiled frog phenomenon. Changes which are slow and gradual can be hard to notice even if their ultimate impact is quite dramatic. Think about what happened, after all, to the poor frog. But I think there's something else going on. Talking about income inequality, even if you're not on the Forbes 400 list, can make us feel uncomfortable. It feels less positive, less optimistic, to talk about how the pie is sliced than to think about how to make the pie bigger. And if you do happen to be on the Forbes 400 list, talking about income distribution, and inevitably its cousin, income redistribution, can be downright threatening. So we're living in the age of surging income inequality, especially at the top. What's driving it, and what can we do about it? One set of causes is political: lower taxes, deregulation, particularly of financial services, privatization, weaker legal protections for trade unions, all of these have contributed to more and more income going to the very, very top. A lot of these political factors can be broadly lumped under the category of ""crony capitalism,"" political changes that benefit a group of well-connected insiders but don't actually do much good for the rest of us. In practice, getting rid of crony capitalism is incredibly difficult. Think of all the years reformers of various stripes have tried to get rid of corruption in Russia, for instance, or how hard it is to re-regulate the banks even after the most profound financial crisis since the Great Depression, or even how difficult it is to get the big multinational companies, including those whose motto might be ""don't do evil,"" to pay taxes at a rate even approaching that paid by the middle class. But while getting rid of crony capitalism in practice is really, really hard, at least intellectually, it's an easy problem. After all, no one is actually in favor of crony capitalism. Indeed, this is one of those rare issues that unites the left and the right. A critique of crony capitalism is as central to the Tea Party as it is to Occupy Wall Street. But if crony capitalism is, intellectually at least, the easy part of the problem, things get trickier when you look at the economic drivers of surging income inequality. In and of themselves, these aren't too mysterious. Globalization and the technology revolution, the twin economic transformations which are changing our lives and transforming the global economy, are also powering the rise of the super-rich. Just think about it. For the first time in history, if you are an energetic entrepreneur with a brilliant new idea or a fantastic new product, you have almost instant, almost frictionless access to a global market of more than a billion people. As a result, if you are very, very smart and very, very lucky, you can get very, very rich very, very quickly. The latest poster boy for this phenomenon is David Karp. The 26-year-old founder of Tumblr recently sold his company to Yahoo for 1.1 billion dollars. Think about that for a minute: 1.1 billion dollars, 26 years old. It's easiest to see how the technology revolution and globalization are creating this sort of superstar effect in highly visible fields, like sports and entertainment. We can all watch how a fantastic athlete or a fantastic performer can today leverage his or her skills across the global economy as never before. But today, that superstar effect is happening across the entire economy. We have superstar technologists. We have superstar bankers. We have superstar lawyers and superstar architects. There are superstar cooks and superstar farmers. There are even, and this is my personal favorite example, superstar dentists, the most dazzling exemplar of whom is Bernard Touati, the Frenchman who ministers to the smiles of fellow superstars like Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich or European-born American fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg. But while it's pretty easy to see how globalization and the technology revolution are creating this global plutocracy, what's a lot harder is figuring out what to think about it. And that's because, in contrast with crony capitalism, so much of what globalization and the technology revolution have done is highly positive. Let's start with technology. I love the Internet. I love my mobile devices. I love the fact that they mean that whoever chooses to will be able to watch this talk far beyond this auditorium. I'm even more of a fan of globalization. This is the transformation which has lifted hundreds of millions of the world's poorest people out of poverty and into the middle class, and if you happen to live in the rich part of the world, it's made many new products affordable — who do you think built your iPhone? — and things that we've relied on for a long time much cheaper. Think of your dishwasher or your t-shirt. So what's not to like? Well, a few things. One of the things that worries me is how easily what you might call meritocratic plutocracy can become crony plutocracy. Imagine you're a brilliant entrepreneur who has successfully sold that idea or that product to the global billions and become a billionaire in the process. It gets tempting at that point to use your economic nous to manipulate the rules of the global political economy in your own favor. And that's no mere hypothetical example. Think about Amazon, Apple, Google, Starbucks. These are among the world's most admired, most beloved, most innovative companies. They also happen to be particularly adept at working the international tax system so as to lower their tax bill very, very significantly. And why stop at just playing the global political and economic system as it exists to your own maximum advantage? Once you have the tremendous economic power that we're seeing at the very, very top of the income distribution and the political power that inevitably entails, it becomes tempting as well to start trying to change the rules of the game in your own favor. Again, this is no mere hypothetical. It's what the Russian oligarchs did in creating the sale-of-the-century privatization of Russia's natural resources. It's one way of describing what happened with deregulation of the financial services in the U.S. and the U.K. A second thing that worries me is how easily meritocratic plutocracy can become aristocracy. One way of describing the plutocrats is as alpha geeks, and they are people who are acutely aware of how important highly sophisticated analytical and quantitative skills are in today's economy. That's why they are spending unprecedented time and resources educating their own children. The middle class is spending more on schooling too, but in the global educational arms race that starts at nursery school and ends at Harvard, Stanford or MIT, the 99 percent is increasingly outgunned by the One Percent. The result is something that economists Alan Krueger and Miles Corak call the Great Gatsby Curve. As income inequality increases, social mobility decreases. The plutocracy may be a meritocracy, but increasingly you have to be born on the top rung of the ladder to even take part in that race. The third thing, and this is what worries me the most, is the extent to which those same largely positive forces which are driving the rise of the global plutocracy also happen to be hollowing out the middle class in Western industrialized economies. Let's start with technology. Those same forces that are creating billionaires are also devouring many traditional middle-class jobs. When's the last time you used a travel agent? And in contrast with the industrial revolution, the titans of our new economy aren't creating that many new jobs. At its zenith, G.M. employed hundreds of thousands, Facebook fewer than 10,000. The same is true of globalization. For all that it is raising hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in the emerging markets, it's also outsourcing a lot of jobs from the developed Western economies. The terrifying reality is that there is no economic rule which automatically translates increased economic growth into widely shared prosperity. That's shown in what I consider to be the most scary economic statistic of our time. Since the late 1990s, increases in productivity have been decoupled from increases in wages and employment. That means that our countries are getting richer, our companies are getting more efficient, but we're not creating more jobs and we're not paying people, as a whole, more. One scary conclusion you could draw from all of this is to worry about structural unemployment. What worries me more is a different nightmare scenario. After all, in a totally free labor market, we could find jobs for pretty much everyone. The dystopia that worries me is a universe in which a few geniuses invent Google and its ilk and the rest of us are employed giving them massages. So when I get really depressed about all of this, I comfort myself in thinking about the Industrial Revolution. After all, for all its grim, satanic mills, it worked out pretty well, didn't it? After all, all of us here are richer, healthier, taller — well, there are a few exceptions — and live longer than our ancestors in the early 19th century. But it's important to remember that before we learned how to share the fruits of the Industrial Revolution with the broad swathes of society, we had to go through two depressions, the Great Depression of the 1930s, the Long Depression of the 1870s, two world wars, communist revolutions in Russia and in China, and an era of tremendous social and political upheaval in the West. We also, not coincidentally, went through an era of tremendous social and political inventions. We created the modern welfare state. We created public education. We created public health care. We created public pensions. We created unions. Today, we are living through an era of economic transformation comparable in its scale and its scope to the Industrial Revolution. To be sure that this new economy benefits us all and not just the plutocrats, we need to embark on an era of comparably ambitious social and political change. We need a new New Deal. (Applause)"	當今最重要的經濟現實是我們處於所得差距激增的年代尤其是最頂端的一群所得遠高於其他人這種轉變在美國和英國最惹眼但全球皆然共產中國看得到前共產國家俄國也如此印度和敝國加拿大也發生了連溫馨的社會民主國家也看得到例如瑞典、芬蘭、德國 讓我列舉一些數據以便點出現況1970年代，頂端1%的人所得佔全國的一成這是在美國如今他們所得的比率倍增佔全國所得兩成以上但更引人注目的是在極頂端的人所得分配的變化現在美國最頂端0.1%的人所得超過全國的8%30年前，這是頂端1%的佔有率讓我用另一項數據點明概貌這是2005年統計的數據引自羅伯·賴許他是柯林頓總統任內的勞工部長賴許得知兩位公認大富豪的財產：比爾蓋茲和巴菲特他發現他們的財富等於美國底層40%的總合1.2億人的總合巧的是巴菲特不只是富豪還能敏銳地觀察差距的激增他也有最愛引用的數據巴菲特喜歡指出，1992年富比士雜誌富豪榜四百強美國前四百名最有錢的人財富總合是三千億美元想想看財富低於十億美元還能上1992年的富豪榜如今財富總合已成長了五倍以上達到1.7兆美元我不說大概你們也知道財富激增的成果中產階級未能分享他們的財富沒變少就不錯了 我們處於全球富豪統治的年代卻遲遲不能察覺我認為原因之一是煮蛙效應緩慢又逐漸的改變有時很難察覺即使最終的衝擊很大想想看青蛙可憐的下場但我認為原因不只如此談論所得分配不均的時候即使不在富豪榜上的人也會感到不自在覺得只是討論劃分大餅而非思考把餅做大比較不積極、不樂觀如果你正好名列富豪榜四百強討論所得分配以及難免涉及的所得再分配可能會令你倍感威脅 因此這是所得差距激增的年代頂端階層尤其為最起因為何？我們該怎麼辦？ 有一類原因屬於政治層面：減稅、鬆綁，尤其是金融業鬆綁民營化、工會法律保障的削弱全都促成了最最頂端的所得日益增加 許多政治因素可以籠統歸類為「裙帶資本主義」這方面政治變化的受益者是有裙帶關係的圈內人但一般大眾很少受惠實際上，要清除裙帶資本主義極為困難想想看俄國歷年來各式的改革者試圖根除貪腐的效果即為一例或想想看重新規範銀行有多難大蕭條以來最重大的金融危機過後仍然難以實現連要大型跨國企業繳稅都很難包括座右銘為「不作惡」的企業他們不願意繳交中產階級繳的稅率但是要根除現行的裙帶資本主義儘管非常非常困難至少在理智上是容易的問題畢竟沒有人真的贊同裙帶資本主義事實上這個議題罕見地團結了左右兩派批評裙帶資本主義對於茶黨和「佔領華爾街」同樣重要 但如果裙帶資本主義，至少在理智上是容易處理的問題比較微妙的則是所得差距激增的經濟驅動力這些驅動力本身並不那麼難懂全球化和科技革命這兩大經濟轉型改變了我們的生活轉變了全球經濟也驅動了富豪的崛起想想看這是史無前例的如果你是精力旺盛的創業家有絕妙的新點子或是極佳的新產品你幾乎可以立刻順利地進入超過十億人的全球市場因此，如果你非常非常聰明又非常非常幸運你可以變得非常非常有錢有錢得非常非常迅速這種現象的最新模範生是大衛·卡普他26歲，是微博平台Tumblr的創辦人最近才把公司賣給了雅虎售價11億美元想想看11億美元，26歲！誰都看得出來，科技革命和全球化正在創造巨星效應尤其是在耀眼的領域例如體育界和娛樂界我們都可以看到最棒的運動員或最棒的藝人如何運用其才能前所未有地跨足全球經濟但是現在的巨星效應橫跨了全部經濟領域我們有巨星科技人員有巨星銀行家有巨星律師和巨星建築師有巨星廚師還有巨星農夫甚至還有我最喜歡的例子：巨星牙醫其中最耀眼的是法國牙醫圖阿帝他讓其他巨星能夠露齒一笑客戶包括俄國的寡頭阿布拉莫維奇以及歐裔美籍時裝設計師馮芙絲汀寶 但雖然我們很容易看出全球化和科技革命創造全球富豪的方式更難的是對其做出評斷原因是二者和裙帶資本主義完全相反全球化和科技革命的效果大多非常正面先談科技我喜歡網路和行動裝置因為這些科技讓身在遠方想聽這場演講的人不必來禮堂也聽得到我更是全球化的粉絲全球化帶來的轉變使世界上數億赤貧的人擺脫了窮困進入中產階級如果你正好住在富裕國家全球化造就了許多實惠的新產品想想看iPhone是誰製造的我們一向依賴的物品也便宜多了想想洗碗機或是T恤 所以全球化有什麼不好？還是有可挑剔之處我擔心的問題之一是所謂用人唯才的富豪統治很容易變成裙帶富豪統治試想你是傑出的創業家已經成功地把新點子或產品銷售給全球數十億人並且因此成為億萬富翁此時你可能會忍不住利用你的經濟常識操縱全球的政經規則使自己受益這不只是假設想想亞馬遜、蘋果、谷歌、星巴克都是全球最受敬重的最受愛戴的、最創新的企業他們也正好特別善於利用國際稅收制度大大降低其賦稅而且何必僅限於操控現存的全球政經體系以獲得最大優勢？一旦你像所得分配最頂端的人擁有強大的經濟實力以及少不了的政治勢力也會變得忍不住開始改變遊戲規則使自己受益這也不只是假設俄國的寡頭就是這麼幹的透過世紀大拍賣進而民營化俄國的自然資源另一個例子是美國和英國鬆綁金融服務業的歷程 我擔心的第二個問題是用人唯才的富豪統治很容易變成貴族統治從一個角度看來富豪是技術達人這種人的見識敏銳明白在今天的經濟環境裡高度複雜的分析及計量技能非常重要這就是為什麼他們正花費前所未有的時間和資源教育自己的孩子中產階級也在增加教育支出但是全球激烈的教育競賽開始於托兒所結束於哈佛、史丹福、麻省理工學院底層的99％日益落後遠不如頂端的1%經濟學家克魯格與寇拉克稱這種現象為蓋茨比曲線隨著所得差距增加社會流動性就會降低富豪統治或許是用人唯才但你的出身愈發重要如果不是頂端階層，連參賽資格都沒有 第三個問題我最擔心驅動全球富豪崛起的正面力量也以同樣的力道正在掏空西方工業國家的中產階級我們先談科技創造億萬富翁的動力也吞噬了許多中產階級的傳統工作你多久沒跟旅行社職員打交道了？和工業革命時代對比新經濟的鉅亨並未創造許多新的就業機會在全盛時期，通用汽車有幾十萬員工臉書的員工則不到一萬人全球化也不遑多讓雖然數以億計的人在新興市場脫貧但也導致很多工作在西方已開發國家被外包可怕的現實是沒有任何經濟規則能夠自動轉化經濟的增長成為廣泛分享的繁榮這個現象顯露於我認為當代最可怕的經濟數字中自1990年代末以來，生產率的提高已經脫鉤於工資和就業的增長結果國家日益富裕企業效率日益提高卻未創造更多就業機會整體薪資並沒有增加 總之有個可怕的結論就是我們該憂心結構性失業我更擔心的是另一種噩夢場景畢竟在完全自由的勞動力市場幾乎人人都可以找到工作我擔心的是反面烏托邦由少數天才組成的宇宙他們創辦了谷歌及其類其他的人只能按摩伺候他們 所以我為此很鬱悶的時候會想想工業革命聊以慰藉畢竟當時的工廠糟糕透頂但最後還是柳暗花明了，對吧畢竟你我都比前人更富裕、更健康、更高除了少數例外我們的壽命也高於19世紀初的祖先但是要切記在我們學會讓工業革命的成果分享於廣大的社會群眾之前我們經歷過兩次蕭條1930年代的大蕭條1870年代的長期蕭條兩次世界大戰，共產主義革命在俄羅斯和中國爆發西方社會和政治極度動盪的時代我們並非巧合地也經歷了極大的社會與政治創新我們建立了現代福利國家我們建立了公立教育體系我們建立了公共保健體系我們建立了公共退休金制度我們成立了工會 如今我們正在度過經濟轉型的時代就其規模和範疇而言不下於工業革命為了確保新經濟澤披天下而不是僅由富豪獨享我們需要迎頭面對同樣浩大的社會與政治變革我們需要新的新政 （掌聲）
