Talk	en	zh-tw
claron_mcfadden_singing_the_primal_mystery	"(Singing) (Singing ends) (Applause) Pep Rosenfeld: Folks, you've just met Claron McFadden. She is a world-class soprano singer who studied in Rochester, New York. Her celebrated operatic roles are numerous and varied. In August 2007, Claron was awarded the Amsterdam Prize for the Arts, winning praise for her brilliance, her amazing and extensively wide repertoire and her vivid stage personality. Please welcome Claron McFadden. (Applause) Claron McFadden: The human voice: mysterious, spontaneous, primal. For me, the human voice is the vessel on which all emotions travel — except, perhaps, jealousy. And the breath, the breath is the captain of that vessel. A child is born, takes its first breath — (Inhales) Whah! And we behold the wondrous beauty of vocal expression — mysterious, spontaneous and primal. A few years ago, I did a meditation retreat in Thailand. I wanted a place where I would have total silence and total solitude. I spent two weeks at this retreat in my own little hut — no music, no nothing — sounds of nature, trying to find the essence of concentration, being in the moment. On my last day, the woman who looked after the place, she came and we spoke for a minute, and then she said to me, ""Would you sing something for me?"" And I thought, but this is a place of total quiet and silence. I can't make noise. She said, ""Please, sing for me."" So I closed my eyes, I took breath and the first thing that came up and out was ""Summertime,"" Porgy and Bess. (Singing) Summertime and the livin' is easy. Fish are jumpin' and the cotton is high. Oh, your daddy's rich and your ma is good-lookin'. So hush little baby, don't you cry. And I opened my eyes, and I saw that she had her eyes closed. And after a moment, she opened her eyes and she looked at me and she said, ""It's like meditation."" And in that moment I understood that everything I had gone to Thailand to look for, to search for, I had it already in my singing — the calm, but alertness, the focus, but awareness, and being totally in the moment. When you're totally in the moment — when I'm totally in the moment, the vessel of expression is open. The emotions can flow from me to you and back. It's an extremely profound experience. There's a piece by a composer, an American composer called John Cage. It's called ""Aria."" It was written for an amazing singer called Cathy Berberian. And the thing about this piece that's so special — if you see it behind me — it's not notated in any way. No notes, no flats, no sharps. But it's a kind of structure. And the singer, within this structure, has total freedom to be creative, spontaneous. For example, there are different colors and each color gets a different type of singing — pop, country and western, opera, jazz — and you just have to be consistent with that color. You see there are different lines. You choose in your own tempo in your own way to follow the line, but you must respect it, more or less. And these little dots, these represent a sort of sound that's not a vocal, not a lyrical way of expressing the voice. Using the body — it could be sneezing, it could be coughing, animals — (Audience member coughs) Exactly. (Laughter) Clapping, whatever. And there's different text. There's Armenian, Russian, French, English, Italian. So within this structure, one is free. To me, this piece is an ode to the voice, because it's mysterious, as we can see. It's quite spontaneous. And it's primal. So I would like to share this piece with you, It's ""Aria,"" of John Cage. (Singing in various languages) Hampart-zoum Dirouhi Di questa Terra Naprasno Conscience et (Barks) (Singing) Arise Tsk, tsk, tsk. (Singing) Vidiel’a facilmente E io sono per te (Robotic voice) No other way Dans l'espace, so help (Singing) Si juste Dvidzénya bistri (Claps) (Singing) On pekrásen idyot a k u O a k ho a Sivayoot eternal loosin (Sneezes) (Laughs) Shh! (Singing) Gloobinoí più chiara Si ceci est cela cela est ceci Totalmente soi whom they sought to slay To have the fruits gloire J’écoute ... À la vie… Leggermente snédznoi Coo coo P k t d Banalité K o e (Makes the sound of a kiss) (Singing) In armonia (Applause)"	（鼓掌） （演唱） （鼓掌） 主持人：各位，為您介紹克拉蓉麥克法登她是世界級的女高音過去就讀於紐約羅切斯特她著名的歌劇角色既多且廣在2007年8月，克拉蓉榮獲阿姆斯特丹藝術獎，為她傑出的表現驚人和廣泛的曲目以及個人舞台風采贏得殊榮。讓我們歡迎克拉蓉麥克法登 （鼓掌） 克拉蓉麥克法登：人類的聲音：奧秘，自發，原始。對我而言，人類的聲音承載著所有情緒穿梭遨遊－－或許除了嫉妒。而呼吸，呼吸是船隻的船長。當一個孩子一出生，呼吸第一口氣－－（吸氣　呼氣）我們見證了聲音演示出奇妙的美好奧秘，自發而原始。 幾年前我在泰國進行靈修我在找尋一個地方讓我可以得到全然的寧靜和全然的孤獨我在那裡待了二個禮拜在我自己的小茅屋裡－－沒有音樂，沒有任何東西，曠野的聲音－－我試著尋找專注於當下的本質 在最後一天，負責那個場地的一位女士，過來和我聊了一下，她對我說，「你能為我唱首歌嗎？」那時我想著，可是這是一個那麼安靜的地方；我不可以製造噪音。她說，「拜託，請為我唱首歌。」於是我閉上雙眼，吸了一口氣那時湧上心頭的曲目就是《波吉和貝絲》音樂劇中的歌曲《夏日》♫夏日時光，生活悠閒♫♫魚兒跳躍而棉花長得很高♫♫哦，你的爸爸有錢而你的媽媽很漂亮♫♫所以乖小寶貝♫♫不哭不哭♫然後我睜開雙眼，我看到她閉上雙眼。過了一會兒她張開了眼睛她看著我對我說，「這就像是冥想。」 就在那一刻我瞭解了所有我去泰國找尋的東西，尋尋覓覓已然存在於我的歌唱中－－靜默，但是清醒，專注，卻明明覺覺，而且完全沈浸在當下。當你完全沈浸在當下，當我專注於當下，表達的管道就暢通了。所以情緒可以流動往返於你我之間這是一種極盡深遠的經驗。 有一首曲目作曲家是美國的約翰卡吉叫作《詠嘆調》這首曲子是專門為一位了不起的歌手量身訂作這位歌手就是凱西伯貝里安而這首曲子之所以如此特別－－你們可以從我身後看到這曲子它不是用我們熟知的任何一種形式譜寫沒有音符，沒有升降記號但它的確自成一格把歌手融入其中的結構完全的自由有創意的，自發的舉個例子，這裡頭有三種不同顏色每種顏色代表一種不同的曲風－－流行樂，鄉村音樂，西方音樂，歌劇，爵士－－而你只需依顏色保持曲風一致你再看看那些不同的線條你可以選擇適合自己的節奏順著這個線條節奏恰如其分，不多也不少地遵循再看看這些小點這些代表一種聲音它不是演唱的，也不是歌唱式的就是一種聲音的表達身體會發出的聲音－－像是打噴嚏或咳嗽也可能是動物的－－（咳嗽）沒錯，就像這樣－－拍手或其它種類另外還有不同的語文這裡有亞美尼亞，俄羅斯，法文，英文，義大利文。所以在這樣的架構下你可以很自由對我而言，這首曲子就是對聲音的頌讚因為它是如此奧秘－－正如我們所見－－它是這麼樣的自發，而且它是原始的。現在我想和大家分享這首曲子。約翰卡吉的《詠嘆調》 （演唱） ♫沒有其他方法♫♫ Dans l'espace，所以幫忙♫（演唱）♫來擁有這些果實♫（演唱） （鼓掌）
