Talk	en	zh-tw
clifford_stoll_on_everything	"I'm delighted to be here. I'm honored by the invitation, and thanks. I would love to talk about stuff that I'm interested in, but unfortunately, I suspect that what I'm interested in won't interest many other people. First off, my badge says I'm an astronomer. I would love to talk about my astronomy, but I suspect that the number of people who are interested in radiative transfer in non-gray atmospheres and polarization of light in Jupiter's upper atmosphere are the number of people who'd fit in a bus shelter. So I'm not going to talk about that. (Laughter) It would be just as much fun to talk about some stuff that happened in 1986 and 1987, when a computer hacker is breaking into our systems over at Lawrence Berkeley Labs. And I caught the guys, and they turned out to be working for what was then the Soviet KGB, and stealing information and selling it. And I'd love to talk about that — and it'd be fun — but, 20 years later ... I find computer security, frankly, to be kind of boring. It's tedious. I'm — The first time you do something, it's science. The second time, it's engineering. A third time, it's just being a technician. I'm a scientist. Once I do something, I do something else. So, I'm not going to talk about that. Nor am I going to talk about what I think are obvious statements from my first book, ""Silicon Snake Oil,"" or my second book, nor am I going to talk about why I believe computers don't belong in schools. I feel that there's a massive and bizarre idea going around that we have to bring more computers into schools. My idea is: no! No! Get them out of schools, and keep them out of schools. And I'd love to talk about this, but I think the argument is so obvious to anyone who's hung around a fourth grade classroom that it doesn't need much talking about — but I guess I may be very wrong about that, and everything else that I've said. So don't go back and read my dissertation. It probably has lies in it as well. Having said that, I outlined my talk about five minutes ago. (Laughter) And if you look at it over here, the main thing I wrote on my thumb was the future. I'm supposed to talk about the future, yes? Oh, right. And my feeling is, asking me to talk about the future is bizarre, because I've got gray hair, and so, it's kind of silly for me to talk about the future. In fact, I think that if you really want to know what the future's going to be, if you really want to know about the future, don't ask a technologist, a scientist, a physicist. No! Don't ask somebody who's writing code. No, if you want to know what society's going to be like in 20 years, ask a kindergarten teacher. They know. In fact, don't ask just any kindergarten teacher, ask an experienced one. They're the ones who know what society is going to be like in another generation. I don't. Nor, I suspect, do many other people who are talking about what the future will bring. Certainly, all of us can imagine these cool new things that are going to be there. But to me, things aren't the future. What I ask myself is, what's society is going to be like, when the kids today are phenomenally good at text messaging and spend a huge amount of on-screen time, but have never gone bowling together? Change is happening, and the change that is happening is not one that is in software. But that's not what I'm going to talk about. I'd love to talk about it, it'd be fun, but I want to talk about what I'm doing now. What am I doing now? Oh — the other thing that I think I'd like to talk about is right over here. Right over here. Is that visible? What I'd like to talk about is one-sided things. I would dearly love to talk about things that have one side. Because I love Mobius loops. I not only love Mobius loops, but I'm one of the very few people, if not the only person in the world, that makes Klein bottles. Right away, I hope that all of your eyes glaze over. This is a Klein bottle. For those of you in the audience who know, you roll your eyes and say, yup, I know all about it. It's one sided. It's a bottle whose inside is its outside. It has zero volume. And it's non-orientable. It has wonderful properties. If you take two Mobius loops and sew their common edge together, you get one of these, and I make them out of glass. And I'd love to talk to you about this, but I don't have much in the way of ... things to say because — (Laughter) (Chris Anderson: I've got a cold.) However, the ""D"" in TED of course stands for design. Just two weeks ago I made — you know, I've been making small, medium and big Klein bottles for the trade. But what I've just made — and I'm delighted to show you, first time in public here. This is a Klein bottle wine bottle, which, although in four dimensions it shouldn't be able to hold any fluid at all, it's perfectly capable of doing so because our universe has only three spatial dimensions. And because our universe is only three spatial dimensions, it can hold fluids. So it's highly — that one's the cool one. That was a month of my life. But although I would love to talk about topology with you, I'm not going to. (Laughter) Instead, I'm going to mention my mom, who passed away last summer. Had collected photographs of me, as mothers will do. Could somebody put this guy up? And I looked over her album and she had collected a picture of me, standing — well, sitting — in 1969, in front of a bunch of dials. And I looked at it, and said, oh my god, that was me, when I was working at the electronic music studio! As a technician, repairing and maintaining the electronic music studio at SUNY Buffalo. And wow! Way back machine. And I said to myself, oh yeah! And it sent me back. Soon after that, I found in another picture that she had, a picture of me. This guy over here of course is me. This man is Robert Moog, the inventor of the Moog synthesizer, who passed away this past August. Robert Moog was a generous, kind person, extraordinarily competent engineer. A musician who took time from his life to teach me, a sophomore, a freshman at SUNY Buffalo. He'd come up from Trumansburg to teach me not just about the Moog synthesizer, but we'd be sitting there — I'm studying physics at the time. This is 1969, 70, 71. We're studying physics, I'm studying physics, and he's saying, ""That's a good thing to do. Don't get caught up in electronic music if you're doing physics."" Mentoring me. He'd come up and spend hours and hours with me. He wrote a letter of recommendation for me to get into graduate school. In the background, my bicycle. I realize that this picture was taken at a friend's living room. Bob Moog came by and hauled a whole pile of equipment to show Greg Flint and I things about this. We sat around talking about Fourier transforms, Bessel functions, modulation transfer functions, stuff like this. Bob's passing this past summer has been a loss to all of us. Anyone who's a musician has been profoundly influenced by Robert Moog. (Applause) And I'll just say what I'm about to do. What I'm about to do — I hope you can recognize that there's a distorted sine wave, almost a triangular wave upon this Hewlett-Packard oscilloscope. Oh, cool. I can get to this place over here, right? Kids. Kids is what I'm going to talk about — is that okay? It says kids over here, that's what I'd like to talk about. I've decided that, for me at least, I don't have a big enough head. So I think locally and I act locally. I feel that the best way I can help out anything is to help out very, very locally. So Ph.D. this, and degree there, and the yadda yadda. I was talking about this stuff to some schoolteachers about a year ago. And one of them, several of them would come up to me and say, ""Well, how come you ain't teaching?"" And I said, ""Well, I've taught graduate — I've had graduate students, I've taught undergraduate classes."" No, they said, ""If you're so into kids and all this stuff, how come you ain't over here on the front lines? Put your money where you mouth is."" Is true. Is true. I teach eighth-grade science four days a week. Not just showing up every now and then. No, no, no, no, no. I take attendance. I take lunch hour. (Applause) This is not — no, no, no, this is not claps. I strongly suggest that this is a good thing for each of you to do. Not just show up to class every now and then. Teach a solid week. Okay, I'm teaching three-quarters time, but good enough. One of the things that I've done for my science students is to tell them, ""Look, I'm going to teach you college-level physics. No calculus, I'll cut out that. You won't need to know trig. But you will need to know eighth-grade algebra, and we're going to do serious experiments. None of this open-to-chapter-seven-and-do-all-the-odd-problem-sets. We're going to be doing genuine physics."" And that's one of the things I thought I'd do right now. (High-pitched tone) Oh, before I even turn that on, one of the things that we did about three weeks ago in my class — this is through the lens, and one of the things we used a lens for was to measure the speed of light. My students in El Cerrito — with my help, of course, and with the help of a very beat up oscilloscope — measured the speed of light. We were off by 25 percent. How many eighth graders do you know of who have measured the speed of light? In addition to that, we've measured the speed of sound. I'd love to measure the speed of light here. I was all set to do it and I was thinking, ""Aw man,"" I was just going to impose upon the powers that be, and measure the speed of light. And I'm all set to do it. I'm all set to do it, but then it turns out that to set up here, you have like 10 minutes to set up! And there's no time to do it. So, next time, maybe, I'll measure the speed of light! But meanwhile, let's measure the speed of sound! Well, the obvious way to measure the speed of sound is to bounce sound off something and look at the echo. But, probably — one of my students, Ariel [unclear], said, ""Could we measure the speed of light using the wave equation?"" And all of you know the wave equation is the frequency times the wavelength of any wave ... is a constant. When the frequency goes up, the wavelength comes down. Wavelength goes up, frequency goes down. So, if we have a wave here — over here, that's what's interesting — as the pitch goes up, things get closer, pitch goes down, things stretch out. Right? This is simple physics. All of you know this from eighth grade, remember? What they didn't tell you in physics — in eighth-grade physics — but they should have, and I wish they had, was that if you multiply the frequency times the wavelength of sound or light, you get a constant. And that constant is the speed of sound. So, in order to measure the speed of sound, all I've got to do is know its frequency. Well, that's easy. I've got a frequency counter right here. Set it up to around A, above A, above A. There's an A, more or less. Now, so I know the frequency. It's 1.76 kilohertz. I measure its wavelength. All I need now is to flip on another beam, and the bottom beam is me talking, right? So anytime I talk, you'd see it on the screen. I'll put it over here, and as I move this away from the source, you'll notice the spiral. The slinky moves. We're going through different nodes of the wave, coming out this way. Those of you who are physicists, I hear you rolling your eyes, but bear with me. (Laughter) To measure the wavelength, all I need to do is measure the distance from here — one full wave — over to here. From here to here is the wavelength of sound. So, I'll put a measuring tape here, measuring tape here, move it back over to here. I've moved the microphone 20 centimeters. 0.2 meters from here, back to here, 20 centimeters. OK, let's go back to Mr. Elmo. And we'll say the frequency is 1.76 kilohertz, or 1760. The wavelength was 0.2 meters. Let's figure out what this is. (Laughter) (Applause) 1.76 times 0.2 over here is 352 meters per second. If you look it up in the book, it's really 343. But, here with kludgy material, and lousy drink — we've been able to measure the speed of sound to — not bad. Pretty good. All of which comes to what I wanted to say. Go back to this picture of me a million years ago. It was 1971, the Vietnam War was going on, and I'm like, ""Oh my God!"" I'm studying physics: Landau, Lipschitz, Resnick and Halliday. I'm going home for a midterm. A riot's going on on campus. There's a riot! Hey, Elmo's done: off. There's a riot going on on campus, and the police are chasing me, right? I'm walking across campus. Cop comes and looks at me and says, ""You! You're a student."" Pulls out a gun. Goes boom! And a tear gas canister the size of a Pepsi can goes by my head. Whoosh! I get a breath of tear gas and I can't breathe. This cop comes after me with a rifle. He wants to clunk me over the head! I'm saying, ""I got to clear out of here!"" I go running across campus quick as I can. I duck into Hayes Hall. It's one of these bell-tower buildings. The cop's chasing me. Chasing me up the first floor, second floor, third floor. Chases me into this room. The entranceway to the bell tower. I slam the door behind me, climb up, go past this place where I see a pendulum ticking. And I'm thinking, ""Oh yeah, the square root of the length is proportional to its period."" (Laughter) I keep climbing up, go back. I go to a place where a dowel splits off. There's a clock, clock, clock, clock. The time's going backwards because I'm inside of it. I'm thinking of Lorenz contractions and Einsteinian relativity. I climb up, and there's this place, way in the back, that you climb up this wooden ladder. I pop up the top, and there's a cupola. A dome, one of these ten-foot domes. I'm looking out and I'm seeing the cops bashing students' heads, shooting tear gas, and watching students throwing bricks. And I'm asking, ""What am I doing here? Why am I here?"" Then I remember what my English teacher in high school said. Namely, that when they cast bells, they write inscriptions on them. So, I wipe the pigeon manure off one of the bells, and I look at it. I'm asking myself, ""Why am I here?"" So, at this time, I'd like to tell you the words inscribed upon the Hayes Hall tower bells: ""All truth is one. In this light, may science and religion endeavor here for the steady evolution of mankind, from darkness to light, from narrowness to broad-mindedness, from prejudice to tolerance. It is the voice of life, which calls us to come and learn."" Thank you very much."	我非常高興來到這裡。受到邀請我感到非常榮幸，謝謝。我想談論一些我感興趣的事情，但遺憾的是我猜測大多數的人，不會對這些事情感興趣。首先，識別證上說我是位天文學家。我很想談論我的天文學，不過我懷疑對輻射轉移、非灰色大氣層、和木星上層大氣層的光偏振感興趣的人數是不是足夠塞滿一整個公車候車站。所以，我不打算去談那些。（笑聲） 有件值得一提的趣事，一件發生在1986和1987的事情，當時有個電腦駭客正在入侵我們的電腦系統嘗試駭進我們在羅倫斯‧柏克萊（Lawrence Berkeley）的實驗室。然後我抓到了那些人，發現原來他們正在替前蘇聯國家安全委員會（情報單位）工作，他們竊取資料，並兜售它們。我很想說說那件事情──而且一定會很有趣──但是，20年後‧‧‧我發現電腦安全這個領域，老實說，有點無聊。非常的乏善可陳。我‧‧‧ 當你第一次做一件事情的時候，它就像是一門科學。第二次做時，它就變成了一項工程。第三次時，你就只是個技術員。我是一位科學家。當我正在著手一件事情時，我已經在想下一件事情了。所以，我不打算去談那些。（關於駭客的事情）我也不會去談論那些在我第一本書（Silicon Snake Oil）裡頭我認為很明顯的論點，或者我的第二本書，我也不會去說明為什麼我會堅持電腦不應該出現在校園。 我覺得有個具有巨大影響力且奇怪的想法正在蔓延那就是我們要在學校中設立更多電腦。我的想法是：錯！錯！讓那些電腦遠離學校，讓它們離校園遠遠的。雖然我會想討論這個議題，不過我認為我的論點對於任何一個上過小學四年級的人來說，是如此明顯的以至於我不需要過多的描述──不過我猜想我在這上面的觀點可能是錯的離譜，甚至我以上所說的可能全都是錯的。所以也不需要回頭去讀我的論文。也許當中也有著錯誤的訊息。 說到這，剛剛五分鐘前我把我的演說列了幾個項目。（笑聲）然後假如你看這裡，寫在我大拇指上，最重要的東西未來。我應該要討論一下未來，對嗎？噢，對。我的感覺是，要我去談論未來會有點奇怪。因為我已經滿頭白髮了，所以對我來說，要我去討論未來是一件很蠢的事情。事實上，我認為如果你真的想知道未來會變成什麼樣，如果你真的想要知道關於未來的一切，不要去問工程師、科學家、物理學家。不！不要去問那些寫程式碼的傢伙。 如果你想知道20年後的社會會變成什麼樣子，去問幼稚園老師。他們知道。事實上，也不要隨便抓一個幼稚園老師來問。問有經驗的幼稚園老師。他們就是那個知道下一代的社會會變成什麼樣子的人。不是我，我猜測也不會是那些，那些在談論未來會變怎樣的人。當然啦，我們所有人都可以想像這些超酷的新事物那些將要出現的新事物。但是對我來說，新事物並不等於未來。我問我自己的是，當現今的小孩們厲害熟練地傳著簡訊並且花很多時間待在電腦螢幕前，卻從未一起去打過保齡球，未來將會變成什麼樣？ 改變正在發生，而且那些正在發生的改變不是存在於電腦軟體裡的那些。但是那不是我要說的。我很想要講那個，那樣一定會很有趣，但是我想要說說關於我正在做的事情，我正在做什麼？噢──另一件我想談論的事情在這裡。就在這裡。這樣可以看見嗎？我想說的是單向性的事物。我非常樂於談論這個這種單向性的事物。因為我熱愛莫比烏斯（Mobius）循環。我不只是愛莫比烏斯循環，我也是非常少數人當中，如果世界上不是只有我的話，在製作克萊（Klein）瓶的人現在，我希望所有人的眼睛仔細看這邊。這就是克萊瓶。對知道克萊瓶的觀眾來說，你會翻個白眼 然後說：對。我都知道。它是一個面的。它是一個內壁跟外壁是同一面的瓶子。它沒有體積。而且它還是不可定向的。它具有十分奇妙的特性。假如你將兩個莫比烏斯循環的相同一邊接合起來，你會得到我手裡的這個，我用玻璃做的。我很高興可以談論這個，但是這個...我沒有什麼事情可以多說 因為──（笑聲） （Chris Anderson：我有感冒耶！） 然而，「TED」中的「D」正是代表設計。兩個星期前我剛做了──你知道的，我一直在做小型、中型還有大型的克萊瓶來販售。不過我剛剛做了──而且我很高興可以在這裡第一次公開展現給你們看。這是一支克萊瓶的葡萄酒瓶，儘管在四維空間它沒辦法裝下任何液體，但是它完全可以這麼做因為我們的宇宙只有三維空間。況且因為我們的空間只有三維空間，所以它可以存放液體。所以它非常──它是比較酷的一個。那可是花了我生命中的一個月。雖然我很想和你們分享拓撲學，但今天我不會。（笑聲） 相反地，我想要提一下我媽，她去年夏天過世了。就像所有母親會做的事情，她收集了我的照片。有人可以把這個傢伙（投影機）打開嗎？我瀏覽她的相簿她有收集了一張我的相片，站著──嗯，坐著，在1969年，在一堆調節器前面。然後我看著這張相片，我說：我的天，這是我在電子音樂錄音室工作時候的照片！我當時是一個技師，負責維修和保養那間電子音樂工作室在美國紐約州立大學水牛城分校。哇！老舊的機器。然後我對自己說：噢 我想起來了！那張照片讓我的思緒回到那時。 不久之後，我在我媽收集的另外一張相片裡發現我。在那邊的那個人正是我。他是羅伯特‧馬各（Robert Moog），馬各合成器（Moog synthesizer）的發明者，他去年八月過世了。羅伯特‧馬格是個慷慨、仁慈的人，除此之外，他還是個超群的工程師。他還是個音樂家，他用他生命中很多的時間來教導我，教一個還在美國紐約州立大學水牛城分校念大一、大二的我。他會專程從特魯曼斯堡（Trumansburg）來教我不只是關於馬各合成器，我們就坐在那裏──我當時在攻讀物理，那時候是1969年、70和71。我們一起研究物理，我還在攻讀物理的時候，他說：「那是件值得去做的事。如果你要研究物理，就不要迷上電子音樂。」為了指導我，他每次來花無數個小時陪我。我進研究所的推薦信，也是他幫我寫的。在背景裡，我的腳踏車。我才發現這張照片是在朋友的客廳照的。羅伯斯‧馬各帶著一大堆儀器來為了向蓋瑞‧佛林特（Greg Flint ）和我展現這些東西。我們圍著圈坐，談論傅立葉變換（Fourier transforms）。貝索函數（Bessel functions）、調製轉換函數（modulation transfer functions），類似這樣的東西。對所有人來說，去年夏天羅伯斯‧馬各的死是一大損失。任何音樂家都深深地被羅伯特‧馬各影響。（掌聲）我會說我要做什麼。我將要做的是──我希望你們可以分辨出一種扭曲的正弦波（sine wave），在這個惠普示波器上，幾乎像是一個三角形的波纹。 噢！酷！我可以換到這個話題了嗎？孩子們。孩子們是我下一個話題──這樣跳可以嗎？它說下一個就是孩子們了，那就是我下一個要說的話題了。我已經決定了，至少對我來說，我沒有太多的創意點子。所以我思考小地方，也從小地方著手。我覺得我可以幫助任何小孩子的最好辦法就是幫助小區域的孩子，非常非常小的部份。所以不論是博士，還是任何學位，還是之類的。大約一年前，我和一些學校老師討論了這個議題。其中一位老師，一些老師過來跟我說，「嗯，你怎麼不試著教書呢？」我回答：「嗯，我以前教過研究生──我以前有教過研究生，我也教過大學生。」他們說：「不，如果你這麼熱衷於孩子的事情，你怎麼還能夠不去站在教育的最前線呢？不要說大話，身體力行吧！」 沒錯。沒錯。我一星期有四天在教國二學生理化。不光只是偶爾出現而已。不，不，不，不，不！我上課要點名的。我還有午休時間。（掌聲）這不是──不，不，不，不需要為我鼓掌。這是件好事，我強烈建議你們所有人去做。不只光只是偶爾出席課堂而已。一整個星期扎實地教學。嗯，一星期我有四分之三的時間在教書，但已經夠好了。我為了我理化課學生做的其中一件事情是告訴他們：「聽著！我打算要教你們大學程度的物理了。不會有微積分，我會把那部份拿掉。你也不需要知道三角函數。但是你需要懂得國二的代數，然後我們就要做真正的實驗。不會是『翻開第七章，做所有奇數的習題。』我們將要做的是真正的物理。」接下來我要做的是，我帶他們做過的實驗中的一項。（高音頻） 噢！在我打開之前，三個星期前，我在課程上做過一件事情──透鏡的其中一向用途是：透過透鏡，去測量光速。在愛瑟利托（El Cerrito )高中的學生，在我的協助下，和非常老舊的示波器幫助下，測量光速。雖然我們的實驗有25%的誤差，但就你所知有多少國二生測量過光速？除此之外，我們還測量過音速。我想現在就測量光速給你們看。我早就準備好一切測量的儀器，我想：「哇！老天。」我只是想不斷加強這方面的能力，來測量光速。我已經都準備好了。我已經都準備好了。但是要把儀器在這裡設好，大該需要十分鐘！現在沒有這個時間。所以，下次，也許吧，我會測量光速給你們看！ 不過現在，讓我們來測量音速吧！嗯，要測量音速最簡單的方法是讓聲音反彈，然後測量它的回音。不過，也可能──我有一個學生，艾里爾（Ariel）說：「我們可以用波的公式來測量光速嗎？」你們都知道的波的公式是：頻率乘以任何波的波長…會得到一個常數。當頻率升高，波長就會變短。波長變長，頻率就會下降。所以如果我們有一個波──看這裡，那是之所以有趣的地方──當音調升高，波紋就會變的集中，當音調降低，波紋就會分散。不是嗎？這是簡單的物理。你們在國二的時候都學過，記得嗎？但他們在國二物理課沒告訴你但應該要告訴你──而且我希望他們有告訴你──的是如果你將頻率乘以聲音波長或光的波長，你會得到一個常數。那個常數就是音速。所以想要測量音速，我們只需要知道頻率就好。嗯，就是這麼簡單。我這裡有一台頻率測量儀。將它設定在A這裡，大概在A這裡。現在，我就知道它的頻率了。是 1.76 千赫。我來測量波長。我現在只需要去打開另外一個開關，下面那個輸入端就可以聽到我的聲音，對嗎？只要我說話，你就可以在螢幕上看到波動。我把麥克風放在這裡，然後當我漸漸的將它遠離聲源。你會注意到螺旋形的波紋。接近地移動。我們正在通過不同的波的節點。從這邊來。對於在座的物理學家們，我知道你們感到無趣，但是再忍耐我一下。（笑聲） 去測量波長，我只需要去測量從這裡（波峰），到這裡（下一個波峰），一整個波的長度。從這裡到這裡，就是聲波的長度。然後，我放了一把捲尺在這裡，將麥克風移動到這裡。我移動了麥克風20公分。也就是0.2公尺，從這裡…到後面這裏，總共20公分。好的，我們回去Elmo（投影機）這裡。我們會說這個頻率是 1.76千赫，或者1760赫茲。波長是0.2公尺。我們來看看結果會是什麼。（笑聲）（掌聲）1.76乘以0.2得到的是每秒352公尺。假如你去查書，其實是每秒343公尺。儘管我們受到老舊儀器和難喝的飲料影響──我們也還是可以測量出音速──結果已經不錯了。 這全部可以總結到我想說的。回到我這張百萬年前的照片。當時是1971年，越戰還在打，我的反應是：「我的天啊！」我在學習物理：藍道（Landau）、利普希茨（Lipschitz)、雷斯尼克（Resnick）和哈利德（Halliday）。我在考完期中考回家的路上，遇到了校園暴動。是一場暴動耶！嘿，Elmo（投影機）的工作結束了，關掉。那是一場發生在校園裡的暴動，然後警察在追捕我，我經過校園。警察走了過來，看著我說：「你！你是個學生。」拔出他的槍。然後「碰！」接著一個百事可樂罐大小的催淚瓦斯彈飛過我頭頂。「呼！」我吸到一口催淚瓦斯，害我不能呼吸。那個警察拿著一把來福槍追著我。他想要用槍托打我的頭！我心想：「我一定要逃離這裡！」我用我最快的速度穿過校園。躲進海斯（Hayes）禮堂。它是學校鐘塔建築之一。那個警察還在追我。追著我，從一樓，二樓，三樓。把我逼到一個房間。那個房間是鐘塔的入口。我甩上門，開始向上爬，一直爬到鐘擺那裡。突然想到：噢！對了，鐘擺長度的開根號和鐘擺週期是成正比的。（笑聲） 我繼續往上爬，又退下來。我爬到插銷分開的地方。四處都是時鐘的一部分。對我來說時間是倒著走的，因為我人在鐘裡面。我思考著洛倫茲的收縮論和愛因斯坦的相對論。我又往上爬，爬到一個地方，在鐘的後面，爬上一把木梯。我從鐘塔的頂端爬出來，那是個圓頂。其中一個十英呎大的圓頂。我從上面看下去，那些警察們正在打學生們的頭，發射催淚瓦斯彈，然後學生們回丟他們磚塊。我問我自己：「我在這裡幹麻？為什麼我在這裡？」然後我想起了我高中的英文老師說過。他說：當人們鑄造鐘的時候，他們會刻銘文在上面。所以我把鐘上面的鳥糞擦掉，看著它。問我自己：「為什麼我來到這世界？」 這次，我要告訴你們在海斯鐘塔上鐘上的銘文寫著：「真理只有一個。在這道光下，願科學與宗教在此攜手合作為了全人類的穩定發展，帶領人們從黑暗走向光明，從狹隘的思想進化成廣闊的胸襟，從偏見到寬容。這是生命之聲，呼喚我們前來，在此學習。」非常感謝大家。
