Talk	en	zh-tw
colin_camerer_neuroscience_game_theory_monkeys	"I'm going to talk about the strategizing brain. We're going to use an unusual combination of tools from game theory and neuroscience to understand how people interact socially when value is on the line. So game theory is a branch of, originally, applied mathematics, used mostly in economics and political science, a little bit in biology, that gives us a mathematical taxonomy of social life and it predicts what people are likely to do and believe others will do in cases where everyone's actions affect everyone else. That's a lot of things: competition, cooperation, bargaining, games like hide-and-seek, and poker. Here's a simple game to get us started. Everyone chooses a number from zero to 100, we're going to compute the average of those numbers, and whoever's closest to two-thirds of the average wins a fixed prize. So you want to be a little bit below the average number, but not too far below, and everyone else wants to be a little bit below the average number as well. Think about what you might pick. As you're thinking, this is a toy model of something like selling in the stock market during a rising market. Right? You don't want to sell too early, because you miss out on profits, but you don't want to wait too late to when everyone else sells, triggering a crash. You want to be a little bit ahead of the competition, but not too far ahead. Okay, here's two theories about how people might think about this, and then we'll see some data. Some of these will sound familiar because you probably are thinking that way. I'm using my brain theory to see. A lot of people say, ""I really don't know what people are going to pick, so I think the average will be 50."" They're not being really strategic at all. ""And I'll pick two-thirds of 50. That's 33."" That's a start. Other people who are a little more sophisticated, using more working memory, say, ""I think people will pick 33 because they're going to pick a response to 50, and so I'll pick 22, which is two-thirds of 33."" They're doing one extra step of thinking, two steps. That's better. And of course, in principle, you could do three, four or more, but it starts to get very difficult. Just like in language and other domains, we know that it's hard for people to parse very complex sentences with a kind of recursive structure. This is called a cognitive hierarchy theory, by the way. It's something that I've worked on and a few other people, and it indicates a kind of hierarchy along with some assumptions about how many people stop at different steps and how the steps of thinking are affected by lots of interesting variables and variant people, as we'll see in a minute. A very different theory, a much more popular one, and an older one, due largely to John Nash of ""A Beautiful Mind"" fame, is what's called equilibrium analysis. So if you've ever taken a game theory course at any level, you will have learned a little bit about this. An equilibrium is a mathematical state in which everybody has figured out exactly what everyone else will do. It is a very useful concept, but behaviorally, it may not exactly explain what people do the first time they play these types of economic games or in situations in the outside world. In this case, the equilibrium makes a very bold prediction, which is everyone wants to be below everyone else, therefore they'll play zero. Let's see what happens. This experiment's been done many, many times. Some of the earliest ones were done in the '90s by me and Rosemarie Nagel and others. This is a beautiful data set of 9,000 people who wrote in to three newspapers and magazines that had a contest. The contest said, send in your numbers and whoever is close to two-thirds of the average will win a big prize. And as you can see, there's so much data here, you can see the spikes very visibly. There's a spike at 33. Those are people doing one step. There is another spike visible at 22. And notice, by the way, that most people pick numbers right around there. They don't necessarily pick exactly 33 and 22. There's something a little bit noisy around it. But you can see those spikes, and they're there. There's another group of people who seem to have a firm grip on equilibrium analysis, because they're picking zero or one. But they lose, right? Because picking a number that low is actually a bad choice if other people aren't doing equilibrium analysis as well. So they're smart, but poor. (Laughter) Where are these things happening in the brain? One study by Coricelli and Nagel gives a really sharp, interesting answer. So they had people play this game while they were being scanned in an fMRI, and two conditions: in some trials, they're told you're playing another person who's playing right now and we're going to match up your behavior at the end and pay you if you win. In the other trials, they're told, you're playing a computer. They're just choosing randomly. So what you see here is a subtraction of areas in which there's more brain activity when you're playing people compared to playing the computer. And you see activity in some regions we've seen today, medial prefrontal cortex, dorsomedial, however, up here, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, an area that's involved in lots of types of conflict resolution, like if you're playing ""Simon Says,"" and also the right and left temporoparietal junction. And these are all areas which are fairly reliably known to be part of what's called a ""theory of mind"" circuit, or ""mentalizing circuit."" That is, it's a circuit that's used to imagine what other people might do. So these were some of the first studies to see this tied in to game theory. What happens with these one- and two-step types? So we classify people by what they picked, and then we look at the difference between playing humans versus playing computers, which brain areas are differentially active. On the top you see the one-step players. There's almost no difference. The reason is, they're treating other people like a computer, and the brain is too. The bottom players, you see all the activity in dorsomedial PFC. So we know that those two-step players are doing something differently. Now if you were to step back and say, ""What can we do with this information?"" you might be able to look at brain activity and say, ""This person's going to be a good poker player,"" or, ""This person's socially naive,"" and we might also be able to study things like development of adolescent brains once we have an idea of where this circuitry exists. Okay. Get ready. I'm saving you some brain activity, because you don't need to use your hair detector cells. You should use those cells to think carefully about this game. This is a bargaining game. Two players who are being scanned using EEG electrodes are going to bargain over one to six dollars. If they can do it in 10 seconds, they're going to actually earn that money. If 10 seconds goes by and they haven't made a deal, they get nothing. That's kind of a mistake together. The twist is that one player, on the left, is informed about how much on each trial there is. They play lots of trials with different amounts each time. In this case, they know there's four dollars. The uninformed player doesn't know, but they know that the informed player knows. So the uninformed player's challenge is to say, ""Is this guy really being fair or are they giving me a very low offer in order to get me to think that there's only one or two dollars available to split?"" in which case they might reject it and not come to a deal. So there's some tension here between trying to get the most money but trying to goad the other player into giving you more. And the way they bargain is to point on a number line that goes from zero to six dollars, and they're bargaining over how much the uninformed player gets, and the informed player's going to get the rest. So this is like a management-labor negotiation in which the workers don't know how much profits the privately held company has, right, and they want to maybe hold out for more money, but the company might want to create the impression that there's very little to split: ""I'm giving you the most that I can."" First some behavior. So a bunch of the subject pairs, they play face to face. We have some other data where they play across computers. That's an interesting difference, as you might imagine. But a bunch of the face-to-face pairs agree to divide the money evenly every single time. Boring. It's just not interesting neurally. It's good for them. They make a lot of money. But we're interested in, can we say something about when disagreements occur versus don't occur? So this is the other group of subjects who often disagree. So they have a chance of — they bicker and disagree and end up with less money. They might be eligible to be on ""Real Housewives,"" the TV show. You see on the left, when the amount to divide is one, two or three dollars, they disagree about half the time, and when the amount is four, five, six, they agree quite often. This turns out to be something that's predicted by a very complicated type of game theory you should come to graduate school at CalTech and learn about. It's a little too complicated to explain right now, but the theory tells you that this shape kind of should occur. Your intuition might tell you that too. Now I'm going to show you the results from the EEG recording. Very complicated. The right brain schematic is the uninformed person, and the left is the informed. Remember that we scanned both brains at the same time, so we can ask about time-synced activity in similar or different areas simultaneously, just like if you wanted to study a conversation and you were scanning two people talking to each other and you'd expect common activity in language regions when they're actually kind of listening and communicating. So the arrows connect regions that are active at the same time, and the direction of the arrows flows from the region that's active first in time, and the arrowhead goes to the region that's active later. So in this case, if you look carefully, most of the arrows flow from right to left. That is, it looks as if the uninformed brain activity is happening first, and then it's followed by activity in the informed brain. And by the way, these were trials where their deals were made. This is from the first two seconds. We haven't finished analyzing this data, so we're still peeking in, but the hope is that we can say something in the first couple of seconds about whether they'll make a deal or not, which could be very useful in thinking about avoiding litigation and ugly divorces and things like that. Those are all cases in which a lot of value is lost by delay and strikes. Here's the case where the disagreements occur. You can see it looks different than the one before. There's a lot more arrows. That means that the brains are synced up more closely in terms of simultaneous activity, and the arrows flow clearly from left to right. That is, the informed brain seems to be deciding, ""We're probably not going to make a deal here."" And then later there's activity in the uninformed brain. Next I'm going to introduce you to some relatives. They're hairy, smelly, fast and strong. You might be thinking back to your last Thanksgiving. Maybe if you had a chimpanzee with you. Charles Darwin and I and you broke off from the family tree from chimpanzees about five million years ago. They're still our closest genetic kin. We share 98.8 percent of the genes. We share more genes with them than zebras do with horses. And we're also their closest cousin. They have more genetic relation to us than to gorillas. So how humans and chimpanzees behave differently might tell us a lot about brain evolution. So this is an amazing memory test from Nagoya, Japan, Primate Research Institute, where they've done a lot of this research. This goes back quite a ways. They're interested in working memory. The chimp is going to see, watch carefully, they're going to see 200 milliseconds' exposure — that's fast, that's eight movie frames — of numbers one, two, three, four, five. Then they disappear and they're replaced by squares, and they have to press the squares that correspond to the numbers from low to high to get an apple reward. Let's see how they can do it. This is a young chimp. The young ones are better than the old ones, just like humans. And they're highly experienced, so they've done this thousands and thousands of time. Obviously there's a big training effect, as you can imagine. (Laughter) You can see they're very blasé and kind of effortless. Not only can they do it very well, they do it in a sort of lazy way. Right? Who thinks you could beat the chimps? Wrong. (Laughter) We can try. We'll try. Maybe we'll try. Okay, so the next part of this study I'm going to go quickly through is based on an idea of Tetsuro Matsuzawa. He had a bold idea that — what he called the cognitive trade-off hypothesis. We know chimps are faster and stronger. They're also very obsessed with status. His thought was, maybe they've preserved brain activities and they practice them in development that are really, really important to them to negotiate status and to win, which is something like strategic thinking during competition. So we're going to check that out by having the chimps actually play a game by touching two touch screens. The chimps are actually interacting with each other through the computers. They're going to press left or right. One chimp is called a matcher. They win if they press left, left, like a seeker finding someone in hide-and-seek, or right, right. The mismatcher wants to mismatch. They want to press the opposite screen of the chimp. And the rewards are apple cube rewards. So here's how game theorists look at these data. This is a graph of the percentage of times the matcher picked right on the x-axis, and the percentage of times they predicted right by the mismatcher on the y-axis. So a point here is the behavior by a pair of players, one trying to match, one trying to mismatch. The NE square in the middle — actually NE, CH and QRE — those are three different theories of Nash equilibrium, and others, tells you what the theory predicts, which is that they should match 50-50, because if you play left too much, for example, I can exploit that if I'm the mismatcher by then playing right. And as you can see, the chimps, each chimp is one triangle, are circled around, hovering around that prediction. Now we move the payoffs. We're actually going to make the left, left payoff for the matcher a little bit higher. Now they get three apple cubes. Game theoretically, that should actually make the mismatcher's behavior shift, because what happens is, the mismatcher will think, oh, this guy's going to go for the big reward, and so I'm going to go to the right, make sure he doesn't get it. And as you can see, their behavior moves up in the direction of this change in the Nash equilibrium. Finally, we changed the payoffs one more time. Now it's four apple cubes, and their behavior again moves towards the Nash equilibrium. It's sprinkled around, but if you average the chimps out, they're really, really close, within .01. They're actually closer than any species we've observed. What about humans? You think you're smarter than a chimpanzee? Here's two human groups in green and blue. They're closer to 50-50. They're not responding to payoffs as closely, and also if you study their learning in the game, they aren't as sensitive to previous rewards. The chimps are playing better than the humans, better in the sense of adhering to game theory. And these are two different groups of humans from Japan and Africa. They replicate quite nicely. None of them are close to where the chimps are. So here are some things we learned today. People seem to do a limited amount of strategic thinking using theory of mind. We have some preliminary evidence from bargaining that early warning signs in the brain might be used to predict whether there will be a bad disagreement that costs money, and chimps are better competitors than humans, as judged by game theory. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要說說大腦決策我們要用一些不尋常組合的工具從賽局理論到神經科學以瞭解利益糾葛時大眾的互動 賽局理論源自應用數學主要用在經濟和政治學很少被應用在生物學上它提供了關於社會行為的數學模型當人的行為會互相影響時它可以用來預測當人類行為會互相影響時人可能會採取的行動這包含很多事：競爭、合作、議價一些像是捉迷藏和撲克牌的遊戲 我們用一個簡單的遊戲開始吧每個人從 0 到 100 間選一個數字我們會計算這些數值的平均選擇最接近平均值 2/3 數值的人贏所以你會需要比平均值低一點的數值但又不要太低而且每個人都會想要選比平均值低一些的數值想想你會選什麼你可能會想：這就像是股價上揚時賣股票時機選擇的簡單模型你不想太早賣因為你會減少獲利但又不想太晚賣因為大家都賣完後股價會崩盤所以你會想超前大家一步，但別過頭好，對於大家的想法有兩種可能然後我們看看數據有些聽起來可能會很熟悉因為你就是這麼想因為我是用大腦理論分析出來許多人會說：「我不知道大家會怎麼選，但我知道平均值是 50。」這其中沒有策略思考成份「我會選 50 的 2/3 ，也就是 33 。」這是個開始其他人比較世故一些消耗大腦多一點運算能力說：「別人會因 50 而選 33 ，所以我就選 22 ， 也就是 33 的 2/3 。」他們多想了一步，也就是兩步這更好，當然理論上你可以多想三步、四步或更多但是想越多越困難就像在語言或其他領域要組織層疊的句子結構很困難順帶一題，這稱為認知層級理論這是我和一些人研究的東西這研究用來驗證思考深度存在階層關係的假設和哪些有趣變因會影響思考深度這部份我們等下就會看到另一個不同的理論也是較為早期、為人熟知的大部份歸因於約翰．納許的《美麗境界》稱為均衡分析如果你曾修過賽局理論的課你可能都學過一些「均衡」是對每個人都知道其他人會怎麼做的數學狀態這是一個有用的概念但是首次應用在經濟領域或是其他現實世界的問題時它卻無法確切解釋人的行為在這狀況下「均衡」是一個大膽的假設：每個人都會想比其他人選的數值低所以他們都會選 0 讓我們來看結果這是一個被重複多次的實驗我、羅斯瑪麗．納格爾及其它人在 90 年代進行的早期實驗這是由 9 千人參加公佈在 3 家報紙和雜誌的競賽後所蒐集到的資料競賽問題說：「回傳你所選的數字，而任何最接近 2/3 平均值的人獲獎」如你所見，因為資料龐大你可以清楚的看到一些高峰在 33 有一個高峰這是只思考一步的人另外一個高峰是在 22順帶一題多數人選擇 33 和 22 附近的數值他們不一定只選 33 或 22所以在附近會有一些雜訊但是你可以看到這些高峰確實存在另外一些人對均衡理論有深入的瞭解因為他們選擇 0 或 1但是他們輸了，對吧？因為如果其他人不懂均衡理論選擇低數值就不是個好策略所以他們聰明卻也貧窮 （笑聲） 那大腦中發生了什麼事呢？柯里切利和納格爾的一項研究給了明顯、有趣的答案他們讓一些人玩這遊戲時同時接受功能型核磁共振（fMRI）包含兩種狀況：在其中一組受試者被告知他們是和遊戲中的人玩而我們最後會比較你們的作為如果你贏了，就會得到獎勵另外一組受試者被告知他們是在電腦玩受試者隨機分組所以你們可以看到當和對電腦玩的人比較時對手是人的受試者腦部活化程度較高從圖上你可以看到一些我們已知的區域內側額葉皮層，事實上在這裡的是背內側額葉皮層腹內前側額葉皮層和像是你在玩「老師說」遊戲時處理大量衝突解決的前扣帶皮層以及左右邊的躡頂葉交界區而這皆我們所熟知的區域被納入一個名為「心靈原理」迴路或稱為「心靈迴路」的一部份這迴路是用來想像別人可能的行動所以這部份早期的研究和賽局理論有關 但那些「想一步」和「想兩步」的玩家又是如何呢？所以我們將受試者依其選擇區分然後我們再看看對手是人或電腦在腦部活化區域層面的不同上方你可以看到「想一步」的玩家它們幾乎沒有不同原因是他們將人視為電腦，所以大腦也就如此反應你可從下方玩家中看到背內側額葉皮層的活動所以我們知道這些「想兩步」的玩家有些不同 你可能會停下來想想「我們從這些資訊中得到什麼？」你可能從大腦活動中判斷「這人會成為撲克牌高手」或「這人是交際新手」既然我們知道這個迴路的存在我們也可以研究一些像是青少年腦部的發育 準備好囉我為你們準備了些腦力激盪你們不用擔心想太多會掉頭髮你們應該專注思考這個遊戲這是個協商遊戲兩位被接上腦電波圖（EEG） 電極的玩家正在進行一項由 1 到 6 元的協商如果在 10 秒內完成，最後就會得到這份金錢如果未在 10 秒內完成協商，就得不到錢這是種兩人一起造成的錯誤不同的地方在於左邊玩家確實知道每場協商的底價而他們會重複多次、所包含的金額不同的協商在這個例子中，他們知道是 4 元而一邊玩家不知道底價只知到他們的對手知道所以不知道底價的玩家會質疑「對方真的很公平或是他只給我很低的金額讓我以為我們真的只有 1、2 塊錢可以分 ？」如此他們可能會拒絕對方，而讓協議流產所以這包含「想要的到最多的錢」和「如何促使對手給你更多錢」的衝突他們議價方式是是從 0 到 6 這條線上指出一點他們是在協商「不知情玩家」該得多少而「知情玩家」會得到剩下的這就好像顧主和勞工的協商勞工不知道公司獲利經額的資訊他們想要得到更多的錢但是公司會想營造一個假象就是營收很少而且「我已將能給的部份都給出去了」 首先看看行為，一部份玩家座在長桌上、面對面協商我們也有一些他們透過電腦協商的數據你可以想像兩者的差距十分有趣長桌上面對面的協商會同意每次都均分金錢無聊死了！平均分配並不有趣這對他們很好，因為他們拿到很多錢我們感興趣的是如何解釋歧見是否發生 這是通常都達不成協議的一組他們有機會因歧見而爭執最後得到很少錢他們協商情景甚至可以改編成實境秀你看左側當配額為 1 到 3 元時他們約有 50% 會拒絕而當配額為 4 到 6 元則會接受這就是我們所預期的非常複雜的賽局理論你應該到加州理工的研究所來學學現在要解釋這太困難了但這理論預期會出現這種趨勢而你的直覺或許也是這樣告訴你 現在我要給你們看腦電波圖（EEG）的紀錄這非常複雜右邊的腦部模型是代表「不知情玩家」而左邊則是「知情玩家」記得我們是同時監控兩個大腦所以我們可以探討在相同或相異大腦區域中在一段時間內的活化狀況就像你想研究一段對話你就同時掃描兩個人的腦部活動而你會預期當他們正在對話時共同活化的是語言區所以這個箭頭連接了同時活化的區域而箭號方向從最先活化的區位指出去箭頭部份表示較後期活化的區域在這個例子中，如果你仔細看大部份的箭號是由右而左看起來「不知情玩家」的腦部較先活化接著才是「知情玩家」順帶一提，這是在達成協議的測試中出現的這是最初兩秒鐘所得到的數據我們還沒完成這部份的分析所以這只是大概觀察到的狀況但我們希望從前 1、2 秒鐘就可以判斷他們是否能達成協議這可以用在避免協商破裂，而走向進訴訟程序例如：最後以不愉快的離婚收場在很多案例中是因為延誤和罷工而減損的價值 而這都是因為歧見你會看到這和前一個例子不同上面有很箭號這表示大腦正在同步運作更確切的說是同時間的活動而箭號由左指向右這好像是「知情玩家」的大腦開使思考「這個可能是失敗的協商」的訊號後來這個活化模式也出現在「不知情玩家」 接著讓我來介紹我們的近親牠們多毛、體味重、迅捷和強壯你可能會想到你上個感恩節的裝扮如果你帶了知黑猩猩的話查理．達爾文、你和我在 50 萬年前從演化樹上和黑猩猩分開遺傳上，是牠們仍是最接近我們的親戚我們之間有 98.8 % 相同的基因我們之間的共同基因比斑馬和野馬間多的多我們也是牠們最接近的親戚牠們和我們的基因相似度比和大猩猩更接近所以人類和黑猩猩行為的不同可能提供我們瞭解腦部演化的線索 這是日本名古屋靈長類研究中心一個令人驚歎的記憶測試他們在那裡做了很多類似的研究這已經是早期的研究，他們對記憶形成很有興趣猩猩會有 200 毫秒的時間仔細去看—— 這是很快的 8 個字卡 ——數字從 1 到 5當字卡消失後會出現方塊牠們必須依據數字大小順序按壓方塊正確就能得到蘋果讓我們看看牠們表現如何這是隻年輕的黑猩猩像人類一樣年輕的表現比年老的好而且牠們已經做了幾千次了可以說是駕輕就熟你可以想像有很大一部份歸於訓練（笑聲）你可以看到牠們已經呈現玩膩時倦怠他們不只做的很好而且是用一種慵懶的方式完成對嗎？誰認為自己可以打敗這些猩猩呢？錯了 （笑聲）我們可以嘗試或許我們真的會試試 好的，這研究的另一部份我會很快的帶過這是基於松澤綱野的想法他有一個想法稱為認知妥協假說我們知道猩猩迅捷且強壯牠們也對自身狀況非常執著他認為，或許黑猩猩保留了對牠們非常重要用來協商條件和獲勝的腦部活動並在成長過程中練習這就像是在競爭中的策略思考所以我們接著就去證實它藉由讓黑猩猩玩個遊戲藉由點擊兩個觸控螢幕猩猩真的可以借由電腦互相交流他們可以選擇按「左」或「右」其中一隻猩猩作為「協調者」在兩隻猩猩都選同一邊時獲勝有點像是在玩捉迷藏「不諧調者」希望不一樣的組合牠們希望選擇和對手不同的選項而得到蘋果塊的獎賞賽局理論學家是這樣看待這些數據的這圖的 X 軸表示「協調者」選擇「右」的比率而 Ｙ 軸表示是牠們預測「不諧調者」會選「右」的比例所以上面的一點是由兩位玩家共同決定的一個試著選擇一樣，另一個希望有不同組合這個中間標示 NE 的正方形，事實上包含 NE 、 CH 、 QRE代表三種包含納許均衡理論在內的三個理論對於牠們選擇的預測牠們的選擇應該是 50 比 50因為如果你選了太多左邊而我是「不諧調者」，我就會傾向選右邊進行破壞如你們所見，每隻黑猩猩都以三角形表示三角形都坐落在預測位置的附近 然後我們改變獎勵條件我們要讓選擇「左」的「協調者」獲得比較高的獎勵現在牠們會得到三個蘋果塊依據賽局理論這會讓「不諧調者」行為改變因為「不諧調者」會想牠的對手會選則獲利大的地方所以我要選「右」，讓牠拿不到而你們可以看到牠們的行為逐漸趨向納許均衡的預測最後，我們再次改變獎勵條件現在是四個蘋果塊他們的行為會更接近納許平衡如果將所有黑猩猩的選擇平均會出現一個高峰它們會非常接近，間距在 0.1 之內結果會比我們觀察的任何一種物種都接近 那人類又會如何呢？你們認為人類比黑猩猩聰明？這裡用藍、綠色表示兩組人類他們選擇接近 50 比 50，但對獎勵的反應和納許平衡相距較遠而且你如果研究他們在遊戲中學習的能力他們對之前獲得的獎勵較不敏感黑猩猩玩得比人類好是以接近賽局理論而言的好而這兩組分別來自日本和非洲的人他們的結果相互吻合但都不及黑猩猩 所以今天我們學到了一些事情從大腦理論的角度人類的策略思考似乎是有極限的我們有些從議價得到的初步證據有些大腦活動可以作為可能造成協商破裂虧損的警訊從賽局理論看來黑猩猩是比人類更好的競爭者謝謝大家（掌聲）
