Talk	en	zh-tw
colin_stokes_how_movies_teach_manhood	"You know, my favorite part of being a dad is the movies I get to watch. I love sharing my favorite movies with my kids, and when my daughter was four, we got to watch ""The Wizard of Oz"" together. It totally dominated her imagination for months. Her favorite character was Glinda, of course. It gave her a great excuse to wear a sparkly dress and carry a wand. But you watch that movie enough times, and you start to realize how unusual it is. Now we live today, and are raising our children, in a kind of children's-fantasy-spectacular-industrial complex. But ""The Wizard of Oz"" stood alone. It did not start that trend. Forty years later was when the trend really caught on, with, interestingly, another movie that featured a metal guy and a furry guy rescuing a girl by dressing up as the enemy's guards. Do you know what I'm talking about? (Laughter) Yeah. Now, there's a big difference between these two movies, a couple of really big differences between ""The Wizard of Oz"" and all the movies we watch today. One is there's very little violence in ""The Wizard of Oz."" The monkeys are rather aggressive, as are the apple trees. But I think if ""The Wizard of Oz"" were made today, the wizard would say, ""Dorothy, you are the savior of Oz that the prophecy foretold. Use your magic slippers to defeat the computer-generated armies of the Wicked Witch."" But that's not how it happens. Another thing that's really unique about ""The Wizard of Oz"" to me is that all of the most heroic and wise and even villainous characters are female. Now I started to notice this when I actually showed ""Star Wars"" to my daughter, which was years later, and the situation was different. At that point I also had a son. He was only three at the time. He was not invited to the screening. He was too young for that. But he was the second child, and the level of supervision had plummeted. (Laughter) So he wandered in, and it imprinted on him like a mommy duck does to its duckling, and I don't think he understands what's going on, but he is sure soaking in it. And I wonder what he's soaking in. Is he picking up on the themes of courage and perseverance and loyalty? Is he picking up on the fact that Luke joins an army to overthrow the government? Is he picking up on the fact that there are only boys in the universe except for Aunt Beru, and of course this princess, who's really cool, but who kind of waits around through most of the movie so that she can award the hero with a medal and a wink to thank him for saving the universe, which he does by the magic that he was born with? Compare this to 1939 with ""The Wizard of Oz."" How does Dorothy win her movie? By making friends with everybody and being a leader. That's kind of the world I'd rather raise my kids in — Oz, right? — and not the world of dudes fighting, which is where we kind of have to be. Why is there so much Force — capital F, Force — in the movies we have for our kids, and so little yellow brick road? There is a lot of great writing about the impact that the boy-violent movie has on girls, and you should do that reading. It's very good. I haven't read as much on how boys are picking up on this vibe. I know from my own experience that Princess Leia did not provide the adequate context that I could have used in navigating the adult world that is co-ed. (Laughter) I think there was a first-kiss moment when I really expected the credits to start rolling because that's the end of the movie, right? I finished my quest, I got the girl. Why are you still standing there? I don't know what I'm supposed to do. The movies are very, very focused on defeating the villain and getting your reward, and there's not a lot of room for other relationships and other journeys. It's almost as though if you're a boy, you are a dopey animal, and if you are a girl, you should bring your warrior costume. There are plenty of exceptions, and I will defend the Disney princesses in front of any you. But they do send a message to boys, that they are not, the boys are not really the target audience. They are doing a phenomenal job of teaching girls how to defend against the patriarchy, but they are not necessarily showing boys how they're supposed to defend against the patriarchy. There's no models for them. And we also have some terrific women who are writing new stories for our kids, and as three-dimensional and delightful as Hermione and Katniss are, these are still war movies. And, of course, the most successful studio of all time continues to crank out classic after classic, every single one of them about the journey of a boy, or a man, or two men who are friends, or a man and his son, or two men who are raising a little girl. Until, as many of you are thinking, this year, when they finally came out with ""Brave."" I recommend it to all of you. It's on demand now. Do you remember what the critics said when ""Brave"" came out? ""Aw, I can't believe Pixar made a princess movie."" It's very good. Don't let that stop you. Now, almost none of these movies pass the Bechdel Test. I don't know if you've heard of this. It has not yet caught on and caught fire, but maybe today we will start a movement. Alison Bechdel is a comic book artist, and back in the mid-'80s, she recorded this conversation she'd had with a friend about assessing the movies that they saw. And it's very simple. There's just three questions you should ask: Is there more than one character in the movie that is female who has lines? So try to meet that bar. And do these women talk to each other at any point in the movie? And is their conversation about something other than the guy that they both like? (Laughter) Right? Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. Two women who exist and talk to each other about stuff. It does happen. I've seen it, and yet I very rarely see it in the movies that we know and love. In fact, this week I went to see a very high-quality movie, ""Argo."" Right? Oscar buzz, doing great at the box office, a consensus idea of what a quality Hollywood film is. It pretty much flunks the Bechdel test. And I don't think it should, because a lot of the movie, I don't know if you've seen it, but a lot of the movie takes place in this embassy where men and women are hiding out during the hostage crisis. We've got quite a few scenes of the men having deep, angst-ridden conversations in this hideout, and the great moment for one of the actresses is to peek through the door and say, ""Are you coming to bed, honey?"" That's Hollywood for you. So let's look at the numbers. 2011, of the 100 most popular movies, how many of them do you think actually have female protagonists? Eleven. It's not bad. It's not as many percent as the number of women we've just elected to Congress, so that's good. But there is a number that is greater than this that's going to bring this room down. Last year, The New York Times published a study that the government had done. Here's what it said. One out of five women in America say that they have been sexually assaulted some time in their life. Now, I don't think that's the fault of popular entertainment. I don't think kids' movies have anything to do with that. I don't even think that music videos or pornography are really directly related to that, but something is going wrong, and when I hear that statistic, one of the things I think of is that's a lot of sexual assailants. Who are these guys? What are they learning? What are they failing to learn? Are they absorbing the story that a male hero's job is to defeat the villain with violence and then collect the reward, which is a woman who has no friends and doesn't speak? Are we soaking up that story? You know, as a parent with the privilege of raising a daughter like all of you who are doing the same thing, we find this world and this statistic very alarming and we want to prepare them. We have tools at our disposal like ""girl power,"" and we hope that that will help, but I gotta wonder, is girl power going to protect them if, at the same time, actively or passively, we are training our sons to maintain their boy power? I mean, I think the Netflix queue is one way that we can do something very important, and I'm talking mainly to the dads here. I think we have got to show our sons a new definition of manhood. The definition of manhood is already turning upside down. You've read about how the new economy is changing the roles of caregiver and wage earner. They're throwing it up in the air. So our sons are going to have to find some way of adapting to this, some new relationship with each other, and I think we really have to show them, and model for them, how a real man is someone who trusts his sisters and respects them, and wants to be on their team, and stands up against the real bad guys, who are the men who want to abuse the women. And I think our job in the Netflix queue is to look out for those movies that pass the Bechdel Test, if we can find them, and to seek out the heroines who are there, who show real courage, who bring people together, and to nudge our sons to identify with those heroines and to say, ""I want to be on their team,"" because they're going to be on their team. When I asked my daughter who her favorite character was in ""Star Wars,"" do you know what she said? Obi-Wan. Obi-Wan Kenobi and Glinda. What do these two have in common? Maybe it's not just the sparkly dress. I think these people are experts. I think these are the two people in the movie who know more than anybody else, and they love sharing their knowledge with other people to help them reach their potential. Now, they are leaders. I like that kind of quest for my daughter, and I like that kind of quest for my son. I want more quests like that. I want fewer quests where my son is told, ""Go out and fight it alone,"" and more quests where he sees that it's his job to join a team, maybe a team led by women, to help other people become better and be better people, like the Wizard of Oz. Thank you."	身為一個父親 我最喜歡的就是看電影我喜歡與孩子一起看我最愛的電影我女兒四歲時我們一起看”綠野仙蹤”讓她有好幾個月都沉浸在幻想裡當然 她最喜歡葛琳達所以她也想學葛琳達 穿上閃亮的衣服拿著魔杖 但是這部電影你看很多次之後你就會開始發現這部電影很特別今天我們生活 養育小孩都是在一種夾雜著小孩幻想的工業複合世界之中但”綠野仙蹤”獨樹一格並沒有那種傾向這種趨勢四十年後才開始流行有趣的是 另一部電影有一個機器人和一隻毛茸茸的動物打扮成敵營守衛 救出一位女孩你知道我在說什麼嗎?(笑聲)沒錯 這兩部電影之間有一個很大的差異跟”綠野仙蹤”有兩三個很大的差異跟我們現在看的電影也是其中一個差異就是”綠野仙蹤”有點暴力猴子和蘋果樹都很兇但是我想如果今天要拍”綠野仙蹤”女巫會說:桃樂絲 你是奧茲王國的救星就如預言所說用你的魔法鞋打敗壞女巫的動畫大軍但事實上不是這樣 “綠野仙蹤”真的很特別對我來說 所有非常英勇絕頂聰明 甚至是窮兇惡極的角色都是女性 現在我開始注意到這一點我給我女兒看過“星際大戰”在幾年過後 情況也不同了那時 我已經有一個兒子當時 他還只有三歲我不讓他一起看 年紀還太小 還不適合但他是我第二個小孩我已經沒有力氣管這麼多(笑聲)所以他就在周圍徘徊這部電影讓他印象深刻就跟著有樣學樣我認為他不知道發生什麼事了但他就是很喜歡 我還不知道是什麼東西讓他這麼著迷他知道這部電影的主題是勇氣堅韌和忠誠?還是他知道路克加入軍團 企圖推翻帝國政府?還是他知道在”星際大戰”裡 只有男性角色除了Aunt Beru和莉亞公主她真的很酷 但在電影裡她多半只是在一旁等待所以她才會用獎牌和媚眼獎勵英雄感謝他拯救宇宙用他與生俱來的魔法? 相較1939年的”綠野仙蹤”在電影裡 桃樂絲最後是如何獲勝?當然是與人交好成為一位領袖我就是想讓我的小孩活在那種世界就像奧茲王國 對吧?而不是吵吵鬧鬧的世界我們現在就有點像生活在那種世界為什麼有這麼多”壓力”(現實)在現在我們為這些小孩準備的電影裡卻很少有寓意希望的黃磚路呢? 有很多相當好的研究討論男性暴力的電影對女性造成的影響大家應該去看看這些文章 很有幫助我還不知道男生有沒有這種感覺根據我自己的經驗我知道莉亞公主沒有適當的背景能讓我導引小孩進入成人世界成人世界是有男有女的(笑聲)電影裡出現初吻的那一刻我很希望開始播電影演員表因為這樣就表示電影結束了 對吧?電影結束了 我問我女兒你怎麼還站在那裡?我不知道該怎麼辦 這幾部電影的重點在於打敗敵人得到獎賞 沒有太多空間留給其他角色的感情關係和旅程就好像如果你是男孩你就是很笨的動物如果你是女孩 就應該披上戰袍還有很多例外我會在你們每一位面前保護迪士尼電影裡的公主但這些電影也傳達一種訊息給男孩他們並不是目標觀眾這些電影非常有意義 教導女孩如何在父權社會保護自己但不一定要讓男孩們知道在父權社會他們應該如何保護自己他們沒有任何的榜樣我們也有幾位了不起的女性再寫一些新的故事給小孩看就像妙麗和凱妮絲 都是那些故事中的女主角這幾部仍是戰爭電影當然 有史以來最成功的電影製片公司不斷有經典作品產出每一部經典電影不是一個男孩或是男人的旅程就是兩個男性友人或一對父子的旅程再不然就是兩個男人撫養一個小女孩的故事跟你們想的一樣 直到今年他們終於出版“勇敢傳說”我建議大家可以去看看 現在租得到你還記得“勇敢傳說”剛上映時 電影評論家說什麼嗎?我不敢相信皮克斯動畫做了一部公主系列電影那部電影很好看 別因為那樣就退縮了 現在幾乎沒有電影通過”貝克德爾測驗”(註:貝克德爾測驗是一種針對性別歧視傾向的測驗)我不知道你們有沒有聽過這項測驗它還不是很普遍但也許今天我們就能跨出第一步艾利森．貝克德爾是一位漫畫家在八零年代中期 她錄下一段談話是關於她跟她的一位朋友在評比她們看過的電影非常簡單 只要問三個問題 這部電影裡有任何一位角色是女性 而且有臺詞嗎?大家可以試著想想看 在電影裡 這些女性有互相交談過嗎? 她們是在談事情還是在討論她們共同喜歡的對象? 對吧?謝謝(掌聲)謝謝大家 兩位女性一直在閒聊真的有這樣的情況 我有看過但是在這幾部電影裡 我很少看見那幾部是我們知道而且很喜歡的電影 事實上 這星期我去看了一部優質電影”逃離德黑蘭”對吧?有希望拿下奧斯卡獎 票房很好大家都認為就這是好萊塢電影該有的品質這部電影很可能無法通過”貝克德爾測驗”而且我認為它也不會通過 因為有許多電影我不知道你們有沒有看過 但是有很多電影都在這間大使館拍攝在人質危機事件時 很多人都躲在裡面我們看到有幾個鏡頭是幾個人躲在大使館 憂心忡忡地談著事情其中一位女演員還很悠閒往房內看 問說”親愛的要睡了嗎?”那就是好萊塢電影的橋段了 我們來看看這項數據2011百大人氣電影你們認為可能有多少部電影是由女性主演?十一部 還不錯這個比率比女性當選國會議員的比率還高 還不錯但是有一個數據比這個更高可能會讓在座各位嚇一跳 去年 紐約時報發表一篇研究這項研究是政府之前做的研究結果表示在美國 每五位女性就有一位表示 在她們一生中 曾經遭受性侵害 現在我認為這不是大眾娛樂的責任也跟兒童電影沒有任何關係甚至 我認為音樂影片或色情電影與這項研究結果沒有直接關係但事情開始漸漸不對勁了我聽到這項統計數字時我想到的其中一件事就是會出現很多性侵犯這些傢伙是誰? 他們學到什麼?他們沒學到什麼?難道他們聽到是故事是說男英雄的工作就是用武力打敗壞人然後獲得獎賞獎賞還是一個沒有朋友、不會說話的女性?我們有因為這個故事記取教訓嗎? 你知道身為一位父母養育女兒就像在座各位所做的事一樣從這個世界和這筆統計數字 我們發現情況非常危急想為此做準備我們有辦法處理這種情況 就像“飛天小女警”一樣希望這麼做有用但是我懷疑女性的力量能夠保護她們嗎?如果同一時間 不論是有意無意我們也在訓練我們的兒子 保有男性力量我的意思是 我認為Netflix排序系統是一種方法 讓我們能夠先處理重要的事我主要是想告訴在場的父親我認為我們必須為我們的兒子訂下一個全新男子氣概的定義 男子氣概的定義已經與我們所想的完全不一樣你一定讀過新經濟理論是如何改變看護和勞工的角色就只是放任不管所以我們的兒子必須去尋找其他方法來適應這個問題 或是彼此之間新的關係同時 我認為我們必須做給他們看 成為他們的榜樣一個真男人會信賴他的姊妹會尊重她們 設身處地為她們著想也會起身對抗真正的壞人對抗會虐待女人的男人我覺得我們的責任就是用Netflix排序系統留意通過”貝克德爾測驗”的電影如果我們能將這些電影和女英雄找出來誰有參與電影演出誰很有勇氣 誰讓大家團結在一起也能讓我們的兒子能夠認識這些女英雄說“我想跟她們站在同一陣線”因為他們自然就會團結在一起 我問我女兒 在“星際大戰”裡她最喜歡的哪一個角色?你知道她說什麼嗎?歐比王歐比王‧肯諾比和葛琳達這兩個角色之間有什麼共通點?可能不只是因為他們的穿著很搶眼我認為這些人都是專家我認為電影裡的這兩個角色比其他角色還要足智多謀而且喜歡與他人分享自己的知識幫助啟發他人潛能現在 他們都是領袖了我想讓我女兒自己去找答案讓我兒子自己探尋我想他們自己去研究我不想告訴我兒子應該做什麼“走開 自己想辦法”他應該與他人一起 解決看見的問題也許是一個由女性領導的隊伍幫助其他人變得更好也讓自己變得更好就跟“綠野仙蹤”一樣謝謝大家
