Talk	en	zh-tw
corneille_ewango_is_a_hero_of_the_congo_forest	"I don't speak English. I start speaking English, learning English, about a year ago. I speak French and I grew up with French, so my English is Franglais. I'm born in the Western Congo, in an area around here, and then went to university in Kisangani. And after I finished, I went to this area, the Ituri Forest. But what I've been doing — when I was about 14, I grew in my uncle's house. And my father was a soldier, and my uncle was a fisherman and also a poacher. What I've been doing from 14 to 17 was, I was assisting them collecting ivory tusk, meat and whatever they were killing, poaching, hunting in the forest, bring it in the main city to get access to the market. But finally, I got myself involved. Around 17 to 20 years, I became, myself, a poacher. And I wanted to do it, because — I believed — to continue my studies. I wanted to go to university, but my father was poor, my uncle even. So, I did it. And for three to four years, I went to university. For three times, I applied to biomedical science, to be a doctor. I didn't succeed. I was having my inscriptions, my admission to biology. And I said, ""No way, I'm not doing it. My family's poor, my area don't have better health care. I want to be a doctor to serve them."" Three times, that means three years, and I start getting old. I say, ""Oh, no, I continue."" So, I did tropical ecology and plant botany. When I finished, I went to the Ituri Forest for my internship. It's where I really getting passion with what I'm doing right up to now — I'm standing in front of you — doing botany and wildlife conservation. That time the Ituri Forest was created as a forest reserve with some animals and also plants. And the training center there was built around the scientific Congolese staff and some American scientists also. So, the Okapi Faunal Reserve protects number — I think that is the largest number of elephants we have right now in protected areas in Congo. It has also chimpanzees. And it has been named Okapi Faunal Reserve because of this beautiful creature. That is a forest giraffe. I think you guys know it quite well. Here we have savanna giraffes, but through evolution we have this forest giraffe that lives only in Congo. It has also some beautiful primates. Thirteen species — highest diversity we can find in one single area in Africa. And it has the Ituri Forest itself — about 1,300 species of plants, so far known. I joined the Wildlife Conservation Society, working there, in 1995, but I started working with them as a student in 1991. I was appointed as a teaching assistant at my university because I accomplished with honor. But I didn't like the way — the instruction I got was very poor. And I wanted to be formed to a training center and a research center. With the end of the dictatorship regime of Mobutu Sese Seko, that most of you know, life became very, very difficult. And the work we have been doing was completely difficult to do and to achieve it. When Kabila started his movement to liberate Congo, so Mobutu soldiers started moving and retreated. So they started fleeing from the east to the west. And the Okapi Faunal Reserve is there, so there was a road from Goma, somewhere here, and coming like this. So they might go through, pass through the Okapi Faunal Reserve. Congo has five of the world's richest sites of protected area, and the Okapi Faunal Reserve is one of them. So soldier was fleeing in the Okapi Faunal Reserve. On their way, they looted everything. Torture, wars — oh, my God, you can't believe. Every person was looking his way — where to go, we don't know. And it was for us, the young, the first time really we hear the language of war, of guns. And even people who faced the rebellion of 1963, after our independence, they didn't believe what was happening. They were killing people. They were doing whatever they want because they have power. Who have been doing that? Young children. Child soldiers. You can't ask him how old he is because he has guns. But I was from the west, working in the east. I even [at] that time was not speaking Swahili. And when they came, they looted everything. You can't speak Lingala because Lingala was from Mobutu, and everyone speaking Lingala is soldier. And I was from the same area to him. All my friends said, we are leaving because we are a target. But I'm not going to the east, because I don't know Swahili. I stay. If I go, I will be killed. I can't go back to my area — it's more than 1,000 kilometers [away]. I stayed after they looted everything. We have been doing research on botany, and we have a small herbarium of 4,500 sheets of plants. We cut, we dry and we packed them, we mounted them on a folder. Purpose: so that we start them for agriculture, for medicine, for whatever, and for science, for the study of the flora and the change of the forest. That is people moving around, that's even Pygmies. And this is a bright guy, hard-working person, and Pygmy. I've been working with him about 10 years. And with soldiers, they went to the forest for poaching elephants. Because he's Pygmy, he knows how to track elephants in the forest. He has been attacked by a leopard and they abandon him in the forest. They came to told me, I have to save him. And what I did, I gave him just antibiotics that we care for tuberculosis. And fortunately, I saved his life. And that was the language of the war. Everywhere there has been constant extraction of mineral, killing animals, the logging timbers and so on. And what of important things — I think all of you here have a cell phone. That mineral has killed a lot: five millions of Congolese have gone because of this Colombo-Tantalite — they call it Coltan — that they use it to make cell phones and it has been in that area, all over in Congo. Extraction, and good, big business of the war. And what I did for the first war, after we have lost everything, I have to save something, even myself, my life and life of the staff. I buried some of our new vehicle engines, I buried it to save it. And some of equipment went with them, on the top of the canopy, to save it. He's not collecting plants, he's going to save our equipment on the canopy. And with the material that's left — because they wanted to destroy it, to burn it, they didn't understand it, they didn't go to school — I packed it. And that is me, going to, hurrying to Uganda, to try to save that 4,000 material, with people carrying them on the bikes, bicycles. And after that, we succeeded. I housed that 4,000 material at the herbarium of Makerere University. And after the war, I have been able to bring it back home, so that we continue our studies. The second war came while we didn't expect it. With friends, we had been sitting and watching match football, and having some good music with WorldSpace radio, when it started, I think. So, it was so bad. We heard that now from the east again the war started, and it's going fast. This time I think Kabila will go in place of, as he did with Mobutu. And the reserve was a target to the rebels. Three different movements and two militia acting in the same area and competing for natural resources. And there was no way to work. They destroy everything. Poaching — oh, no way. And that's the powerful men. We have to meet and to talk to them. What's the regulation of the reserve and what is the regulation of the parks? And they can't do what they are doing. So we went to meet them. That is Coltan extraction, gold mining. So, we started talking with them, convincing them that we are in a protected area. There are regulations that it's prohibited to do logging, mining and poaching, specifically. But they said, ""You guys, you think that soldiers who are dying are not important, and your animals you are protecting are most important. We don't think so. We have to do it, because to let our movement advance."" I say, ""No way, you are not going to do it here."" We started talking with them and I was negotiating. Tried to protect our equipment, tried to protect our staff and the villages of about 1,500 people. And we continued. But I was doing that, negotiating with them. Sometimes we are having meeting and they are talking with Jean-Pierre Bemba, with Mbusa Nyamwisi, with Kabila, and I'm there. Sometimes, they talk to my own language, that is, Lingala. I hear it and what strategy they are doing, what they are planning. Sometimes, they are having a helicopter to supply them with ammunition and so on. They used me to carry that, and I was doing counting, what comes from where, and where, and where. I had only this equipment — my satellite phone, my computer and a plastic solar panel — that I hide it in the forest. And every time, daily, after we have meeting, what compromise we have, whatever, I go, I write a short email, send it. I don't know how many people I had on my address. I sent the message: what is going about the progress of the war and what they are planning to do. They started suspecting that what we do on the morning, and the afternoon, it's on the news, BBC, RFI. (Laughter) Something might be going on. And one day, we went for a meeting. (Applause) Sorry. One day, we went to meet the Chief Commander. He had the same iridium cell phone like me. And he asked me, ""Do you know how to use this?"" I said, ""I have never seen it. (Laughter) I don't know."" And I had mine on my pocket. So, it was a chance that they trusted me a lot. They didn't — they was not looking on me. So I was scared. And when we finished the meeting, I went to return it in the forest. And I was sending news, doing whatever, reporting daily to the U.N., to UNESCO, to our institution in New York, what have been going. And for that, they have been having big pressure to leave, to free the area. Because there was no way — whatever they do, it's known the same time. During the first two rebellions, they killed all animals in the zoo. We have a zoo of 14 Okapis, and one of them was pregnant. And during the war, after a week of heavy war, fighting in the area, we succeeded: we had the first Okapi. This is the only trouser and shirt remind me of this. This is not local population, this is rebels. They are now happy sending the news that they have protected the Okapi with the war, because we sent the news that they are killing and poaching everywhere. After a week, we celebrated the birthday of that Okapi, they killed an elephant, just 50 meters to the area where the zoo, where Okapi was born. And I was mad. I oppose it — that they are now going to dissect it, until I do my report and then I see the Chief Commander. And I succeeded. The elephant just decayed and they just got the tusks. What we are doing after that — that was the situation of the war — we have to rebuild. I had some money. I was paid 150 dollars. I devoted half of it to rebuild the herbarium, because we didn't have good infrastructure to start plants. Wildlife Conservation Society more dealing with plants. I started this with 70 dollars, and start fundraising money to where I've been going. I had opportunity to go all over, where herbarium for my African material is. And they supported me a bit, and I built this. Now, it's doing work to train young Congolese. And also, what one of the speciality we are doing, my design is tracking the global warming effect on biodiversity, and what the impacts of the Ituri Forest is playing to uptake carbon. This is one of the studies we are doing on a 40-hectare plot, where we have tagged trees and lianas from one centimeters, and we are tracking them. We have now data of about 15 years, to see how that forest is contributing to the carbon reductions. And that is — I think it's difficult for me. This is a very embarrassing talk, I know. I don't know where to start, where to finish it. When I was thinking to come here, what best title I wanted to say to my talk, I didn't find this. But now I think that I would have titled it, ""The Language of Guns."" Where are you people? Now we are talking about reconstitution, rebuild Africa. But is gun industries a tool to rebuild, or is it a game? I think we see the war like a game — like soccer, football. Everybody is happy, but see what it's doing, see what is going in Darfur. Now we say, oh, my God. See what the wars in Rwanda. That's because of the language of guns. I don't think that someone may blame Google, because it's doing the right things, even if people like Al-Qaeda are using Google to connect between them. But it's serving millions for the best. But what is doing with gun industries? Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you, thank you. Just wait over there. It's an amazing story. I suspect a lot of people here have the same question I have. How can we help you? Corneille Ewango: That's really embarrassing questions. I think that now I feel nervous. And I think, helping us, people are acting sometimes by ignorance. I did it myself. If I know when I was young, that [by] killing an elephant, I'm destroying biodiversity, I would not have done it. Many, many of you have seen the talents of Africans, but there are few who are going to school. Many are dying because of all those kind of pandemics, HIV, malaria, poverty, not going to school. What you can assist us, it's by building capacities. How many have got opportunity like me to go to U.S., do a master's? And go — now, I'm in the Netherlands to do a Ph.D. But many of them are just here, because they don't have money. And they can't go even to university. They can't even attain the bachelor's degree. Building capacities for the young generation is going to make a better generation and a better future tomorrow for Africa. CA: Thank you, thank you. (Applause)"	"英語不是我的母語。我大約在一年前才開始學習說英語。我說法語，而且是與法國人一起長大，所以我說的英語是法式英語。我是在西剛果出生，大約是在這個地區，然後到基桑加尼上大學。畢業後，我到了這個地區，伊圖里森林。我那時在做的是...我十四歲的時候，是在我叔叔家長大的。我父親是軍人，我叔叔是漁夫，同時也是個盜獵者。我在十四歲到十七歲間，協助他們採集象牙，肉，以及所有他們在森林裡殺、盜獵、獵取到的任何東西，再將這些物品帶到大城市的市場上去賣。 最終，我也參予其中。約在十七到二十歲的時候，我自己成為了盜獵者。我願意當盜獵者是因為我想繼續念書。我想上大學，但我父親和叔叔都很窮困...所以只好盜獵賺錢。三四年後，我上了大學。申請過生醫科學系三次，因為我想當醫生。但我沒有被錄取。我申請進的是生物系。我說：才不要，我才不念生物系。我家裡很窮，那地區根本沒有好的醫療設備。我想成為醫生，為他們看病。我申請過三次，這表示花了三年的時間，年紀也開始大了。我想：喔，糟糕，只好念吧。所以，我念了熱帶生態學和植物學。畢業後，我到伊圖里森林去實習。在那裡，我才開始對我的工作燃起熱情，現在，站在你們面前的我，做的是植物和野生生物的保育工作。 那時候，伊圖里森林是作為森林保護區，裡面有些動物以及植物。接著，那裡的訓練所開始被建立起來，並招募剛果當地的技術人員和一些美國的科學家。就這樣，霍加狓動物保護區中有我想目前剛果的保護地區中，最多數量的大象。保護區中也有黑猩猩。這個保護區是因為這種美麗的生物而被命名為霍加狓（Okapi）動物保護區。這是隻森林長頸鹿。我想你們大家應該都認識它。原本的大草原長頸鹿，經過演化變成這種只存在於剛果的森林長頸鹿。保護區中也有一些美麗的靈長類動物。一共13種，是非洲擁有最高多樣性的的單一區域。保護區也包括伊圖里森林 —目前所知就有約1300種植物。 我在1995年加入野生生物保育協會，但其實我早在1991年，就以學生的身分和他們共事。因為我是以優等成績畢業，所以被指派為大學的助教。不過，我獲得的教導太貧乏了。我想去訓練所或是研究中心。在蒙博托(剛果前總統)的獨裁政權遭到推翻後，大部分人的生活開始變得十分艱難。而且很難繼續完成我們一直在進行的工作。 卡比拉(剛果民主共和國前總統)開始解放剛果的行動後，蒙博托的士兵開始移動和撤退，他們從東邊逃竄到西邊。也就是霍加皮動物保護區的所在地，他們走這條從戈馬來的路，大概是在這附近，再一路逃到這邊來。因此，他們可能會經過霍加狓動物保護區。剛果擁有五個世界上最富饒的自然保護區，而霍加狓動物保護區就是其中之一。那時，士兵們逃到霍加狓動物保護區，並掠奪他們在途中看到的所有東西。我的天啊，你無法想像我們經歷的折磨和戰爭。每個人都在找可以避難的地方，我們也不知道可以躲到哪裡去。那時我們年輕人還是第一次遇到戰爭。我們聽過戰爭的語言，槍支的語言。但就算是曾經歷過1963年叛亂的人，在剛果獨立之後，也還是無法相信那時正在發生的事。士兵們濫殺無辜，為所欲為，因為他們擁有權力。是誰在做這些事呢？年幼的孩子們。娃娃兵。你不能問他幾歲，因為他手裡拿著槍。 我是從西邊來，在東邊工作，在那時，我連斯華西里語(非洲語)都不會說。軍隊來了，也搶走了一切。你不能講林加拉語，因為林加拉語是蒙博托的主要語言，所有說林加拉語的都是士兵。而我和他們是從同一個地方來的。我所有的朋友都說他們要離開了，因為我們是攻擊目標。但我不能去東部，因為我不會講斯華西里語。我留下了。如果跟著他們去，我會被殺掉的。我無法回到家鄉- 我家遠在一千公里之外。 他們掠奪走一切後，我留下了。我們一直在進行植物研究，還有個包括4,500片植物的植物標本室。我們切，曬乾，並包起這些植物，將它們固定在檔案夾上。目的是要開始農耕這些植物，將其用於醫學，其他領域，以及用於科學，以研究植物群和森林的改變。我們的研究人員四處勘查，人員裡還包括俾格米人。其中，有一位聰明又努力的俾格米人。我已經和他一起共事約十年了。他和士兵們一起進入森林偷獵大象。因為他是俾格米人，他知道如何在森林中追蹤大象。但他遭到豹的攻擊，而士兵們將他丟在森林中。士兵們來找我，要我救他。我也只能給他我們用來醫治肺結核的抗生素。幸運的是，我救回了他一命。 而那，就是戰爭的語言。挖掘礦物，屠殺動物，濫伐林木等，都持續在每個地方發生。其中最嚴重的是，我想在座的大家都有一隻手機，製作手機的礦物害死了很多人-五百萬的剛果人因為這種礦物而死。這礦物是鈳鐵礦-鉭鐵礦，簡稱為鈳鉭鐵礦(Coltan)。鈳鉭鐵礦可用來製作手機，他們便在剛果到處採掘鈳鉭鐵礦，這是戰爭中的賺錢好方法。 在第一次戰爭結束後，我們什麼都沒有了。為了我自己，我的生命和其他工作人員的生命，我必須保全一些東西。我將部分的新車引擎埋了起來以保全它。同時也埋了一些設備，再以帆布蓋住來保全他們。他不是在收集植物，而是在以帆布挽救我們的裝備。士兵們想要毀掉，燒掉剩下的資料。他們沒有受過教育，因此不了解資料的內容，所以，我將這些資料打包起來。照片裡的是我，急忙要逃到烏干達，試圖保全那4,000筆資料，人們以單車和摩托車運輸這些資料。最後，我們成功了！我將那4,000筆資料收藏到馬凱雷雷大學的植物標本室。我也在戰後，將這些資料帶回霍加狓動物保護區，繼續我們的研究。 第二次戰爭的發生，完全不在我們的預料中。我記得在戰爭發生時，我們還與朋友坐在一起看足球比賽，聽Worldspace播放的音樂。結果，後來變得很糟糕。我們之後聽到，戰爭又從東部開始，而且擴散得很快。這次，我想卡比拉會與蒙博托有同樣的下場。而保護區則是叛軍的目標。三種不同的活動以及兩支軍隊在同一區域中，爭奪天然資源。但是沒有辦法可以解決。他們破壞了一切。盜獵 — 喔，我的天啊。我們必須去見那些大人物 — 跟他們溝通。講解保護區的規章和園地的規章。告訴他們，他們必須停止現在正在做的事情。我們去見了大人物們。有關採掘鈳鉭鐵礦和開採金礦的事。 我們開始跟他們溝通，說服他們，我們所處是一個保護區。有規章指出伐木、採礦和盜獵是明令禁止的。但他們說：""你們這些人，都認為那些將死的士兵不重要，你們保護的動物才重要，我們不這麼認為。我們這樣做是為了要使我們的行動前進。""我說：""不行，你們不能在這裡進行。""我們開始跟他們交談，我與他們談判。試著保住我們的裝備，保護我們的人員，以及有1,500名村民的村子。我們繼續跟他們勸說。 但我在和他們談判時，有時候我們正在開會，他們在與班巴(剛果民主共和國前副總統)，尼亞姆維西(領土整治部長)和卡比拉通話，而我在現場。他們有時會以我的母語，林加拉，對話。我知道他們要採取的策略以及接下來的計畫。有時候，他們會以直升機補充軍火和其他物資。他們利用我幫他們運輸，我則偷偷的數軍火的數量，數這些東西分別是從哪裡運來等等。我只有一個配備- 我藏在森林裡的衛星電話，電腦，跟一個塑膠太陽能面板。每天我們開完會以後，不管達成什麼協議，我都會馬上寫並寄出一封短電子信。我不知道我有幾個聯絡人，我將戰爭的進度和他們接下來的計畫傳達出去。他們開始懷疑我們，因為早上才剛討論的事情，下午就已經在BBC，RFI等新聞台播出。(笑聲)他們知道事情有些不對勁。有一天，我們去開會。(掌聲)不好意思。 有一天，我們去見總指揮。他有和我同款的銥衛星電話。他問我： ""你會用這個東西嗎?""我說: ""我從來沒看過這東西。(笑聲)我不知道這是什麼。""但其實，我的衛星電話就在口袋裡。僥倖的是，他們非常信任我，他們沒有來搜我。當然，我很害怕。我們開完會後，我跑到森林將電話放回去。我那時偷傳新聞，做所有我能力所及的事，每天向聯合國，聯合國教育科學暨文化組織和我們在紐約的研究機構報告現況。因此，他們受到輿論的壓力，要他們離開，解放我們那地方。因為他們沒有辦法 —不管他們做什麼，都會馬上被全世界知道。 軍隊在前兩次的叛亂中，屠殺動物園裡所有的動物。我們的動物園裡原有14隻霍加狓，且其中一隻已懷孕。在戰爭期間，經過在我們地區的一週混戰後，我們成功的培育出第一隻霍加狓。就是這些衣褲，提醒了我當時情景。這位不是當地居民，他是叛軍。他們很開心的到處散播他們以戰爭保護霍加狓的新聞。這是因為我們之前以新聞報導他們到處濫殺和盜獵的事蹟。一週後，我們慶祝這隻霍加狓的生日，士兵們卻在距離霍加狓出生的動物園50公尺處，殺了一隻大象。我很生氣。我要他們在我向總指揮報告前，都不許解剖那隻大象。而我成功了。他們只取了它的象牙，而讓它的身體自然腐爛。 戰爭後，我們要面對的處境則是要重建。我手上有一些錢 — 他們付了我150塊。我將一半用於重建植物標本室，因為我們沒有良好的基礎建設來培養植物。植物較多是由野生生物協會處理。我用70元開始重建，並且在我所到之處募款。我有到各地收集植物標本室所需非洲素材的機會。他們也贊助了一點錢，讓我蓋了這個。現在，我們在這裡訓練剛果的年輕人。 我們其中一個強項，我的計畫是追蹤全球暖化對於生物多樣性的影響，以及伊圖里森林在吸收二氧化碳的作用。這是我們在一塊40公頃的地進行的其中一項研究，我們以公分標示樹和藤類，藉以追蹤。現在，我們已有約15年的數據，可知森林對減碳所做出的貢獻。而這是 — 我想這對我來說有點困難。我知道這是個有點尷尬的題目-我不知道該從哪裡開始或從哪裡結束。 當我考慮要來演講時，我無法想到符合我演講的好標題。但現在，我想我會將標題取為""槍支的語言""。你們在哪裡?我們現在在討論非洲的改編與重建。但，軍火業是重建的工具還是一場競賽呢?我想我們將戰爭看為一場競賽 —像是足球賽，橄欖球賽。大家都很開心，但看看造成了什麼後果。看看發生在達佛(Darfur)的事。我們現在才會說： ""喔，我的老天啊！""看盧安達發生的事，那也是由槍枝的語言所引起。我不認為任何人會怪罪Google，因為Google做的是正確的事，連蓋達組織都在用Google進行聯繫。Google是為了大眾的福祉服務。那麼，軍火業又是為了誰服務呢？謝謝。(掌聲) 克里斯·安德森：謝謝，謝謝。請在這裡稍候一下。這是個非常驚人的故事。我想大部分的聽眾都和我有同樣的疑問。我們能怎樣幫助你？ 康乃爾·伊旺格：這是個很尷尬的問題。我現在有點緊張了。我想，要幫助我們的話，人們有時是因無知而做出他們做的事。我也是一樣。如果我年輕時知道獵殺大象會破壞生物多樣性，我是不會做的。你們許多人都知道非洲有很多有才華的人，但只有一些人才能接受教育。許多因為流行病，愛滋病，瘧疾，貧窮，沒有受到教育就將步入死亡。你可以做的是，幫助我們培養能力。有多少人能有像我一樣的機會到美國念碩士，再到- 我現在在荷蘭讀博士。很多人留在剛果是因為沒有錢，連大學都沒辦法上，也無法獲得學士學位。為年輕一代培養能力會讓我們的下一代更好，也會讓非洲的未來更好。 克里斯·安德森：謝謝，謝謝。(掌聲)"
