Talk	en	zh-tw
cosmin_mihaiu_physical_therapy_is_boring_play_a_game_instead	When I was growing up, I really  liked playing hide-and-seek a lot. One time, though, I thought climbing a tree would lead to a great hiding spot, but I fell and broke my arm. I actually started first grade with a big cast all over my torso. It was taken off six weeks later, but even then, I couldn't extend my elbow, and I had to do physical therapy to flex and extend it, 100 times per day, seven days per week. I barely did it, because I found it boring and painful, and as a result, it took me another six weeks to get better. Many years later, my mom developed frozen shoulder, which leads to pain and stiffness in the shoulder. The person I believed for half of my life to have superpowers suddenly needed help to get dressed or to cut food. She went each week to physical therapy, but just like me, she barely followed the home treatment, and it took her over five months to feel better. Both my mom and I required physical therapy, a process of doing a suite of repetitive exercises in order to regain the range of movement lost due to an accident or injury. At first, a physical therapist works with patients, but then it's up to the patients to do their exercises at home. But patients find physical therapy boring, frustrating, confusing and lengthy before seeing results. Sadly, patient noncompliance can be as high as 70 percent. This means the majority of patients don't do their exercises and therefore take a lot longer to get better. All physical therapists agree that special exercises reduce the time needed for recovery, but patients lack the motivation to do them. So together with three friends, all of us software geeks, we asked ourselves, wouldn't it be interesting if patients could play their way to recovery? We started building MIRA, A P.C. software platform that uses this Kinect device, a motion capture camera, to transform traditional exercises into video games. My physical therapist has already set up a schedule for my particular therapy. Let's see how this looks. The first game asks me to fly a bee up and down to gather pollen to deposit in beehives, all while avoiding the other bugs. I control the bee by doing elbow extension and flexion, just like when I was seven years old after the cast was taken off. When designing a game, we speak to physical therapists at first to understand what movement patients need to do. We then make that a video game to give patients simple, motivating objectives to follow. But the software is very customizable, and physical therapists can also create their own exercises. Using the software, my physical therapist recorded herself performing a shoulder abduction, which is one of the movements my mom had to do when she had frozen shoulder. I can follow my therapist's example on the left side of the screen, while on the right, I see myself doing the recommended movement. I feel more engaged and confident, as I'm exercising alongside my therapist with the exercises my therapist thinks are best for me. This basically extends the application for physical therapists to create whatever exercises they think are best. This is an auction house game for preventing falls, designed to strengthen muscles and improve balance. As a patient, I need to do sit and stand movements, and when I stand up, I bid for the items I want to buy. (Laughter) In two days, my grandmother will be 82 years old, and there's a 50 percent chance for people over 80 to fall at least once per year, which could lead to a broken hip or even worse. Poor muscle tone and impaired balance are the number one cause of falls, so reversing these problems through targeted exercise will help keep older people like my grandmother safer and independent for longer. When my schedule ends, MIRA briefly shows me how I progressed throughout my session. I have just shown you three different games for kids, adults and seniors. These can be used with orthopedic or neurologic patients, but we'll soon have options for children with autism, mental health or speech therapy. My physical therapist can go back to my profile and see the data gathered during my sessions. She can see how much I moved, how many points I scored, with what speed I moved my joints, and so on. My physical therapist can use all of this to adapt my treatment. I'm so pleased this version is now in use in over 10 clinics across Europe and the U.S., and we're working on the home version. We want to enable physical therapists to prescribe this digital treatment and help patients play their way to recovery at home. If my mom or I had a tool like this when we needed physical therapy, then we would have been more successful following the treatment, and perhaps gotten better a lot sooner. Thank you. (Applause) Tom Rielly: So Cosmin, tell me what hardware is this that they're rapidly putting away? What is that made of, and how much does it cost? Cosmin Milhau: So it's a Microsoft Surface Pro 3 for the demo, but you just need a computer and a Kinect, which is 120 dollars. TR: Right, and the Kinect is the thing that people use for their Xboxes to do 3D games, right? CM: Exactly, but you don't need the Xbox, you only need a camera. TR: Right, so this is less than a $1,000 solution. CM: Definitely, 400 dollars, you can definitely use it. TR: So right now, you're doing clinical trials in clinics. CM: Yes. TR: And then the hope is to get it so it's a home version and I can do my exercise remotely, and the therapist at the clinic can see how I'm doing and stuff like that. CM: Exactly. TR: Cool. Thanks so much. CM: Thank you. (Applause)	在我成長期間，我真的好喜歡玩捉迷藏。但是有一次，我以為爬上樹會找到很棒的藏匿點，可是我跌了下來，摔斷了手臂。一年級開學時我其實是身體裹著大石膏去學校的。六個星期後拆下石膏，但那時候我還不能伸手臂，我必須去復健才能彎曲及伸展。一天要做一百次，每星期做七天。我幾乎都沒做，因為我發現那很枯燥又很痛，結果我又花了六個星期才好轉。 多年以後，我媽媽得了五十肩，導致肩膀又痛又僵硬。這個我大半輩子都相信有超能力的人，突然間需要幫忙才能穿衣吃飯。她每個星期都去看物理治療師，但就像我一樣，她幾乎都沒做居家復健運動，所以她花了五個多月才覺得好一點。 我媽和我兩個都需要做復健，過程是做一套重複運動，讓身體的靈活度能恢復到和意外受傷前一樣。首先，物理治療師會在旁指導病人，但是之後病人就要在家做復健運動。但是病人發現物理治療很枯燥、讓人洩氣又難懂，而且要很久才看得到成效。很可惜，患者不合作的機率可高達 70%。這意味著大部分的病人都不做指定的運動，因而要花更長的時間才會好轉。所有的物理治療師都同意特別設計的運動能減少康復所需的時間，但是病人缺乏動機去做這些運動。 所以我與三個朋友，我們都是軟體達人，我們問自己，如果病人能用玩的走上康復之路不是很有趣嗎？我們開始著手寫麥拉 (MIRA) ，一套微軟的軟體平台，利用 Kinect 體感裝置，即動態捕捉攝影機，將傳統的運動轉變成電玩。 我已與我的物理治療師約好要做某種治療。來看看這怎麼用。第一個遊戲要我讓一隻蜜蜂上下飛以採集花粉存到蜂巢，同時還要避開其他的蟲子。我以伸展及彎曲手臂來控制這隻蜜蜂，就像我七歲時拿掉石膏後要做的一樣。 在設計遊戲時，我們先與物理治療師談過，瞭解病人需要做什麼樣的動作。然後我們製作出一套遊戲給患者簡單又能激勵他們的治療目標來遵循。但是這套軟體非常容易客製，物理治療師也能設計他們自己的運動。我的物理治療師用這套軟體錄下她自己示範肩關節外展，這是我媽媽當年得五十肩時要做的動作之一。我可以跟著治療師在螢幕左邊的示範，同時在右邊看見自己做這項推薦動作。我覺得我更想做也更有信心，因為我與我的治療師併肩運動，一起做我的治療師認為對我最有益的動作。這基本上讓物理治療師能擴大應用，設計出他們認為最佳的運動。 這是為避免跌倒而設計的拍賣會遊戲，為了強化肌肉及改善平衡能力。身為患者，我必須做坐下起立等動作，我起立時，我就對我想買的東西出價競標。（笑聲） 我的祖母再過兩天就要 82 歲了，超過 80 歲的人有 50％ 的機率每年至少跌倒一次，導致骨盆骨折，或甚至更糟的情況。肌力不足及平衡感變差是跌倒的首要原因，所以透過特定運動來徹底改變這些問題，就能幫助像我祖母一樣的老人家更安全、更獨立的生活久一點。在我的運動時間結束後，麥拉會很快地向我顯示在這段期間我的進展如何。 我剛剛為大家示範了三種不同的遊戲，分別針對小孩、大人及老人家。這些可用在矯形科或神經科的病人身上，但我們很快就會提供用於自閉症孩童、精神健康或言語治療的選項。我的物理治療師可以回去看我的病歷資料，並看看在我的練習時間內所收集到的資料。她可以看我如何移動，我得多少分，我移動關節的速度有多快…等等。我的物理治療師可以用這一切來調整我的療法。 我很高興這個版本現在在歐美超過十個診所使用，而且我們現在正在研發家用版。我們想讓物理治療師能開這種數位治療處方，並幫助患者在家用玩的達到康復。如果當時在我媽媽或我需要物理治療時有像這樣的工具，我們遵循醫囑的過程就會更順利，或許就能好得更快了。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 湯姆瑞利：柯思明，告訴我這個硬體是什麼，他們好快就收走了。那是哪家製造的？多少錢？ 柯思明：那是做示範用的微軟平板電腦 Surface Pro 3，但你只需要一部電腦及美金 120 元的 Kinect 體感就夠了。 湯：Kinect 體感就是大家拿來玩 Xbox3D 遊戲的，是嗎？ 柯：沒錯，但是你不用 Xbox，你只需要一部攝影機。 湯：是，所以這是不到美金一千元的解決方案。 柯：正是，四百元，你絕對可以用它。 湯：現在你在診所做臨床試驗。 柯：是的。 湯：之後希望能成功研發家用版，我就可以在遠端運動，門診治療師也能看到我的進展和類似的東西。 柯：沒錯。 湯：好酷。非常感謝你。柯：謝謝。 （掌聲）
