Talk	en	zh-tw
cynthia_kenyon_experiments_that_hint_of_longer_lives	"Have you ever wanted to stay young a little longer and put off aging? This is a dream of the ages. But scientists have for a long time thought this just was never going to be possible. They thought you just wear out, there's nothing you can do about it — kind of like an old shoe. But if you look in nature, you see that different kinds of animals can have really different lifespans. Now these animals are different from one another, because they have different genes. So that suggests that somewhere in these genes, somewhere in the DNA, are genes for aging, genes that allow them to have different lifespans. So if there are genes like that, then you can imagine that, if you could change one of the genes in an experiment, an aging gene, maybe you could slow down aging and extend lifespan. And if you could do that, then you could find the genes for aging. And if they exist and you can find them, then maybe one could eventually do something about it. So we've set out to look for genes that control aging. And we didn't study any of these animals. Instead, we studied a little, tiny, round worm called C. elegans, which is just about the size of a comma in a sentence. And we were really optimistic that we could find something because there had been a report of a long-lived mutant. So we started to change genes at random, looking for long-lived animals. And we were very lucky to find that mutations that damage one single gene called daf-2 doubled the lifespan of the little worm. So you can see in black, after a month — they're very short-lived; that's why we like to study them for studies of aging — in black, after a month, the normal worms are all dead. But at that time, most of the mutant worms are still alive. And it isn't until twice as long that they're all dead. And now I want to show what they actually look like in this movie here. So the first thing you're going to see is the normal worm when it's about college student age — a young adult. It's quite a cute little fellow. And next you're going to see the long-lived mutant when it's young. So this animal is going to live twice as long. Is it miserable? It doesn't seem to be. It's active. You can't tell the difference really. And they can be completely fertile — have the same number of progeny as the normal worms do. Now get out your handkerchiefs here. You're going to see, in just two weeks, the normal worms are old. You can see the little head moving down at the bottom there. But everything else is just lying there. The animal's clearly in the nursing home. And if you look at the tissues of the animal, they're starting to deteriorate. You know, even if you've never seen one of these little C. elegans — which probably most of you haven't seen one — you can tell they're old — isn't that interesting? So there's something about aging that's kind of universal. And now here is the daf-2 mutant. One gene is changed out of 20,000, and look at it. It's the same age, but it's not in the nursing home; it's going skiing. This is what's really cool: it's aging more slowly. It takes this worm two days to age as much as the normal worm ages in one day. And when I tell people about this, they tend to think of maybe an 80 or 90 year-old person who looks really good for being 90 or 80. But it's really more like this: let's say you're a 30 year-old guy — or in your 30s — and you're a bachelor and you're dating people. And you meet someone you really like, you get to know her. And you're in a restaurant, and you say, ""Well how old are you?"" She says, ""I'm 60."" That's what it's like. And you would never know. You would never know, until she told you. (Laughter) Okay. So what is the daf-2 gene? Well as you know, genes, which are part of the DNA, they're instructions to make a protein that does something. And the daf-2 gene encodes a hormone receptor. So what you see in the picture there is a cell with a hormone receptor in red punching through the edge of the cell. So part of it is like a baseball glove. Part of it's on the outside, and it's catching the hormone as it comes by in green. And the other part is on the inside where it sends signals into the cell. Okay, so what is the daf-2 receptor telling the inside of the cell? I just told you that, if you make a mutation in the daf-2 gene cell, that you get a receptor that doesn't work as well; the animal lives longer. So that means that the normal function of this hormone receptor is to speed up aging. That's what that arrow means. It speeds up aging. It makes it go faster. So it's like the animal has the grim reaper inside of itself, speeding up aging. So this is altogether really, really interesting. It says that aging is subject to control by the genes, and specifically by hormones. So what kind of hormones are these? There's lots of hormones. There's testosterone, adrenalin. You know about a lot of them. These hormones are similar to hormones that we have in our bodies. The daf-2 hormone receptor is very similar to the receptor for the hormone insulin and IGF-1. Now you've all heard of at least insulin. Insulin is a hormone that promotes the uptake of nutrients into your tissues after you eat a meal. And the hormone IGF-1 promotes growth. So these functions were known for these hormones for a long time, but our studies suggested that maybe they had a third function that nobody knew about — maybe they also affect aging. And it's looking like that's the case. So after we made our discoveries with little C. elegans, people who worked on other kinds of animals started asking, if we made the same daf-2 mutation, the hormone receptor mutation, in other animals, will they live longer? And that is the case in flies. If you change this hormone pathway in flies, they live longer. And also in mice — and mice are mammals like us. So it's an ancient pathway, because it must have arisen a long time ago in evolution such that it still works in all these animals. And also, the common precursor also gave rise to people. So maybe it's working in people the same way. And there are hints of this. So for example, there was one study that was done in a population of Ashkenazi Jews in New York City. And just like any population, most of the people live to be about 70 or 80, but some live to be 90 or 100. And what they found was that people who lived to 90 or 100 were more likely to have daf-2 mutations — that is, changes in the gene that encodes the receptor for IGF-1. And these changes made the gene not act as well as the normal gene would have acted. It damaged the gene. So those are hints suggesting that humans are susceptible to the effects of the hormones for aging. So the next question, of course, is: Is there any effect on age-related disease? As you age, you're much more likely to get cancer, Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, all sorts of diseases. It turns out that these long-lived mutants are more resistant to all these diseases. They hardly get cancer, and when they do it's not as severe. So it's really interesting, and it makes sense in a way, that they're still young, so why would they be getting diseases of aging until their old? So it suggests that, if we could have a therapeutic or a pill to take to replicate some of these effects in humans, maybe we would have a way of combating lots of different age-related diseases all at once. So how can a hormone ultimately affect the rate of aging? How could that work? Well it turns out that in the daf-2 mutants, a whole lot of genes are switched on in the DNA that encode proteins that protect the cells and the tissues, and repair damage. And the way that they're switched on is by a gene regulator protein called FOXO. So in a daf-2 mutant — you see that I have the X drawn here through the receptor. The receptor isn't working as well. Under those conditions, the FOXO protein in blue has gone into the nucleus — that little compartment there in the middle of the cell — and it's sitting down on a gene binding to it. You see one gene. There are lots of genes actually that bind on FOXO. And it's just sitting on one of them. So FOXO turns on a lot of genes. And the genes it turns on includes antioxidant genes, genes I call carrot-giver genes, whose protein products actually help other proteins to function well — to fold correctly and function correctly. And it can also escort them to the garbage cans of the cell and recycle them if they're damaged. DNA repair genes are more active in these animals. And the immune system is more active. And many of these different genes, we've shown, actually contribute to the long lifespan of the daf-2 mutant. So it's really interesting. These animals have within them the latent capacity to live much longer than they normally do. They have the ability to protect themselves from many kinds of damage, which we think makes them live longer. So what about the normal worm? Well when the daf-2 receptor is active, then it triggers a series of events that prevent FOXO from getting into the nucleus where the DNA is. So it can't turn the genes on. That's how it works. That's why we don't see the long lifespan, until we have the daf-2 mutant. But what good is this for the worm? Well we think that insulin and IGF-1 hormones are hormones that are particularly active under favorable conditions — in the good times — when food is plentiful and there's not a lot of stress in the environment. Then they promote the uptake of nutrients. You can store the food, use it for energy, grow, etc. But what we think is that, under conditions of stress, the levels of these hormones drop — for example, having limited food supply. And that, we think, is registered by the animal as a danger signal, a signal that things are not okay and that it should roll out its protective capacity. So it activates FOXO, FOXO goes to the DNA, and that triggers the expression of these genes that improves the ability of the cell to protect itself and repair itself. And that's why we think the animals live longer. So you can think of FOXO as being like a building superintendent. So maybe he's a little bit lazy, but he's there, he's taking care of the building. But it's deteriorating. And then suddenly, he learns that there's going to be a hurricane. So he doesn't actually do anything himself. He gets on the telephone — just like FOXO gets on the DNA — and he calls up the roofer, the window person, the painter, the floor person. And they all come and they fortify the house. And then the hurricane comes through, and the house is in much better condition than it would normally have been in. And not only that, it can also just last longer, even if there isn't a hurricane. So that's the concept here for how we think this life extension ability exists. Now the really cool thing about FOXO is that there are different forms of it. We all have FOXO genes, but we don't all have exactly the same form of the FOXO gene. Just like we all have eyes, but some of us have blue eyes and some of us have brown eyes. And there are certain forms of the FOXO gene that have found to be more frequently present in people who live to be 90 or 100. And that's the case all over the world, as you can see from these stars. And each one of these stars represents a population where scientists have asked, ""Okay, are there differences in the type of FOXO genes among people who live a really long time?"" and there are. We don't know the details of how this works, but we do know then that FOXO genes can impact the lifespan of people. And that means that, maybe if we tweak it a little bit, we can increase the health and longevity of people. So this is really exciting to me. A FOXO is a protein that we found in these little, round worms to affect lifespan, and here it affects lifespan in people. So we've been trying in our lab now to develop drugs that will activate this FOXO cell using human cells now in order to try and come up with drugs that will delay aging and age-related diseases. And I'm really optimistic that this is going to work. There are lots of different proteins that are known to affect aging. And for at least one of them, there is a drug. There's one called TOR, which is another nutrient sensor, like the insulin pathway. And mutations that damage the TOR gene — just like the daf-2 mutations — extend lifespan in worms and flies and mice. But in this case, there's already a drug called rapamycin that binds to the TOR protein and inhibits its activity. And you can take rapamycin and give it to a mouse — even when it's pretty old, like age 60 for a human, that old for a mouse — if you give the mouse rapamycin, it will live longer. Now I don't want you all to go out taking rapamycin. It is a drug for people, but the reason is it suppresses the immune system. So people take it to prevent organ transplants from being rejected. So this may not be the perfect drug for staying young longer. But still, here in the year 2011, there's a drug that you can give to mice at a pretty old age that will extend their lifespan, which comes out of this science that's been done in all these different animals. So I'm really optimistic, and I think it won't be too long, I hope, before this age-old dream begins to come true. Thank you. (Applause) Matt Ridley: Thank you, Cynthia. Let me get this straight. Although you're looking for a drug that can solve aging in old men like me, what you could do now pretty well in the lab, if you were allowed ethically, is start a human life from scratch with altered genes that would make it live for a lot longer? CK: Ah, so the kinds of drugs I was talking about would not change the genes, they would just bind to the protein itself and change its activity. So if you stop taking the drug, the protein would go back to normal. You could change the genes in principle. There isn't the technology to do that. But I don't think that's a good idea. And the reason is that these hormones, like the insulin and the IGF hormones and the TOR pathway, they're essential. If you knock them out completely, then you're very sick. So it might be that you would just have to fine tune it very carefully to get the benefits without getting any problems. And I think that's much better, that kind of control would be much better as a drug. And also, there are other ways of activating FOXO that don't even involve insulin or IGF-1 that might even be safer. MR: I wasn't suggesting that I was going to go and do it, but ... (Laughter) There's a phenomenon which you have written about and spoken about, which is a negligible senescence. There are some creatures on this planet already that don't really do aging. Just move to one side for us, if you would. CK: There are. There are some animals that don't seem to age. For example, there are some tortoises called Blanding's turtles. And they grow to be about this size. And they've been tagged, and they've been found to be 70 years old. And when you look at these 70 year-old turtles, you can't tell the difference, just by looking, between those turtles and 20 year-old turtles. And the 70 year-old ones, actually they're better at scouting out the good nesting places, and they also have more progeny every year. And there are other examples of these kinds of animals, like turns, certain kinds of birds are like this. And nobody knows if they really can live forever, or what keeps them from aging. It's not clear. If you look at birds, which live a long time, cells from the birds tend to be more resistant to a lot of different environmental stresses like high temperature or hydrogen peroxide, things like that. And our long-lived mutants are too. They're more resistant to these kinds of stresses. So it could be that the pathways that I've been talking about, which are set to run really quickly in the worm, have a different normal set point in something like a bird, so that a bird can live a lot longer. And maybe they're even set really differently in animals with no senescence at all — but we don't know. MR: But what you're talking about here is not extending human lifespan by preventing death, so much as extending human youthspan. CK: Yes, that's right. It's more like, say, if you were a dog. You notice that you're getting old, and you look at your human and you think, ""Why isn't this human getting old?"" They're not getting old in the dog's lifespan. It's more like that. But now we're the human looking out and imagining a different human. MR: Thank you very much indeed, Cynthia Kenyon. (Applause)"	在座諸位是否曾想過要延長自己的青春延緩衰老?這是長久以來的夢想但科學家長期以來都認為這個夢想永遠都不會實現人一定都會老嘛 這是無法改變的事情就像一隻舊鞋但如果你觀察大自然會發現不同的動物壽命長短大不相同這些動物之所以不同是因為牠們的基因不同可想而知在這些基因的某處 DNA的某處存在著導致衰老的基因讓不同的動物有不同的壽命如果這些基因真的存在想像一下如果你在實驗中改變其中一個基因一個導致衰老的基因就有可能延緩衰老 延長壽命如果你能這麼做 就可以找到導致衰老的基因如果真有這種基因而且又被你找到也許我們就可以藉此大有一番作為 因此我們準備尋找可以控制衰老的基因我們沒有研究其它動物反而研究了又細又小 身體圓圓的秀麗線蟲牠的尺寸大約只有句子裡的逗點那麼大我們非常樂觀地認為可以有新發現因為已經有一篇報告紀錄了長壽的突變體我們開始隨意地改變基因尋找長壽的動物而且非常幸運地發現如果一個名叫daf-2的基因在突變時被破壞小蟲的壽命就可以延長一倍 請各位看黑線 一個月後─這種蟲的壽命很短 所以適合拿來做研究研究老化現象─黑線顯示 一個月後 一般的蟲都死了但與此同時大部分的突變蟲仍然還活著而且會活多一倍的時間才死去現在我想用這支影片 讓各位看看牠們的廬山真面目首先你會看見正常的蟲子相當於大學生的年紀 剛成年的年輕人牠還蠻可愛的吧然後是年輕時期的長壽突變蟲這種蟲的壽命多一倍牠會精神不振嗎？沒有喔牠很活潑 其實你看不出差別牠們完全有生育能力和正常小蟲有相同數量的後代 現在把手帕準備好你會看到 兩個星期後正常的小蟲變老了可以看到頭在下方移動但其它的部份都沒有生氣顯然已經住進療養院了如果你觀察牠的組織 會發現組織已經開始退化即使你沒看過秀麗線蟲這種小生物你們大部分應該都沒看過但還是看得出來牠們老了─很有趣對不對？ 所以衰老的某些特徵其實是所有生物共通的看看有daf-2突變的蟲兩萬個基因中只改變這個基因 你看看同樣的年紀 但沒有住在療養院裡牠在滑雪很酷對吧 牠衰老得比較慢這隻蟲要兩天的時間來完成一般蠕蟲一天內衰老的程度當我跟別人說這件事的時候他們通常想到的是80或90歲的人不過是看起來狀況極佳的90或80歲但其實更準確地講比如說你是30歲的男性 30幾歲單身貴族 約會不斷你遇見你喜歡的對象 想多認識對方所以在餐廳裡 你問她：「你今年幾歲？」她說：「我60歲」就是這種情況 你根本看不出來你絕對不會知道 除非她告訴你 (笑聲) 好吧daf-2基因到底是什麼呢?各位應該都知道 基因是DNA的一部分告訴蛋白質應該做什麼而這個daf-2基因控制荷爾蒙接收器這張圖片上你可以看到一個細胞 紅色的是荷爾蒙接收器正穿過細胞的邊緣它有一部分像棒球手套一樣這一部分在外面抓住經過的荷爾蒙 就是綠色的部分另一部份在裡面向細胞發送信號 daf-2接收器到底在向細胞內部發送什麼信號呢?我剛剛說 如果你讓daf-2基因細胞產生突變讓接收器失效這隻蟲就可以活比較久表示這種荷爾蒙接收器的正常功能就是加速老化箭頭就是這個意思它會加速老化 讓老化更快發生就好像蟲子體內有個死神一樣加快老化所以這一切非常 非常有趣表示老化是由基因控制更精確一點是荷爾蒙那這是哪一類的荷爾蒙呢？荷爾蒙有很多種 睪丸激素 腎上腺素還有很多大家都熟知的控制老化的荷爾蒙和我們體內的荷爾蒙很相似daf-2荷爾蒙接收器跟其它接收器很像尤其是專門感應胰島素和IGF-1的接收器 大家應該至少都聽過胰島素這種荷爾蒙是促進養分吸收的吃完飯後 身體組織就可以吸收養分IGF-1促進生長這些荷爾蒙的功能是大家長久以來耳熟能詳的但是我們的研究指出也許還有不為人知道的第三種功能會影響老化我們現在面對的似乎就是這種可能性 從小線蟲身上有了新發現後研究其他動物的科學家開始思考 如果讓相同的daf-2突變就是荷爾蒙接收器突變 也在其他動物身上發生其他動物也會更長壽嗎？蒼蠅的確如此如果改變荷爾蒙接收的路徑 蒼蠅可以活更久老鼠也是 而老鼠跟人一樣是哺乳類所以接收路徑想必十分古老因為一定是在演化早期就發展出來的機制才會在所有動物身上都有效同樣地 人類也是由相同的祖先演化而來 所以也許對人類也有效我們也的確看到這種跡象例如 某項研究的對象是紐約市的阿胥肯納吉猶太人族群就跟其他人口族群一樣大部分人可以活到70或80歲但有些可以活到90或100歲學者發現那些活到90或100歲的人比較可能有daf-2的突變就是說 基因發生改變造成接收IGF-1的不同這些改變使基因不產生作用不像一般正常的基因它們破壞了基因這些暗示表示人類也可能受到影響控制老化的荷爾蒙對人類也有效 因此更進一步的問題 當然就是它對於與年齡相關的疾病有沒有效用？當我們逐漸老化 會更有可能得到癌症 阿茲海默症心臟疾病 或其他各種疾病我們發現長壽的突變種更有能力對抗這些疾病牠們很少得癌症即使得了也比較不嚴重這是很有趣的現象 其實也很有道理因為牠們還很年輕所以當然不會有各種老化的病症這也表示如果有某種療法或藥物可以複製這些效果到人體上也許就有辦法對抗許多與年齡有關的各種疾病一勞永逸那麼 荷爾蒙到底怎麼影響老化的速度呢？它是如何運作的？ 我們發現在daf-2突變種生物中某個DNA上的許多基因都在運作這個DNA負責控制蛋白質 保護細胞和組織修復損傷這些基因的運作是由控制基因的蛋白質FOXO掌管因此在daf-2突變種中─這裡可以看到接收器上面打了個叉接收器沒有作用在這種環境中 FOXO蛋白質 就是藍色的部分進入了細胞核就是細胞中心的小空間它留在這裡 帶著一個基因你只看到一個 其實FOXO上帶著很多基因它只留了一個 FOXO啟動許多基因的功能包括抗氧化的基因還有我稱為「成人之美」的基因它的蛋白質產出物可以幫助其他蛋白質維持良好運作正確疊合 正常運作還可以確保其他蛋白質廢棄後在細胞中被處理掉或在蛋白質受損時進行回收修復DNA的基因在這些動物體內比較活躍免疫系統也比較活躍許多這些不同的基因 已經證實確實造成daf-2變種生物較長的壽命這是非常有趣的發現這些動物體內潛藏著可以活更久的能力牠們有能力保護自己免於各種傷害我們認為這是牠們長壽的原因 那一般正常的蟲子呢？當daf-2接收器啟動時會觸發一連串反應防止FOXO進入細胞核 也就是DNA所在的位置因此基因不會被啟動這就是它運作的方法 也因此如果要長壽一定要有daf-2的變異但這對蟲子有什麼好處？如果我們回頭看看胰島素和IGF-1激素這兩種特別活躍的荷爾蒙在有利的條件下 良好的情況中如果食物充足 環境中又沒有太大的壓力時它們會促進養分的吸收儲存食物 轉換成能量幫助生長 等等 但我們考慮的是 如果受到壓力影響荷爾蒙濃度下降例如 食物來源不足這種情形 我們認為動物本能地就會將之視為警訊提醒牠們情況不對勁牠應該施展自我保護的能力因此FOXO開始運作 對DNA產生作用觸發這些基因表現改善細胞能力更能自我保護與修復我們認為 動物因此能活更久 所以 你可以把FOXO當成大樓的管理員也許這位管理員有點懶惰不過他人在大樓裡 有在管事大樓慢慢老舊然後突然 管理員得知有颶風要來他自己實際上什麼都不做而是拿起電話就像FOXO刺激DNA一樣然後打電話叫修屋頂 修窗戶的工人油漆工 地板工通通都過來 強化大樓之後颶風過境不過大樓的狀況比平時改善許多不只如此 它還可以維持更久有沒有颶風都一樣我要說明的概念就是如此所謂延長壽命的能力就是這樣 FOXO了不起的地方是它有各種不同的型態我們都有FOXO的基因但是型態並不完全一樣就像我們都有眼睛但有些人的眼睛是藍色的 有些人的眼睛是棕色的某些形態的FOXO基因我們發現 它們最常出現的地方是在90或100歲人瑞的體內這種狀況 全世界都一樣這張圖上的星星就足以說明每一顆星代表一個人口族群科學家在這些地方研究：「這裡的FOXO基因在長壽人口體內是否都不同？」的確如此我們不清楚這一切運作的細節但我們知道FOXO基因可以影響人類的壽命這就表示 如果我們善加利用這一點就可以改善人類的健康 增加壽命 這一點讓我非常興奮FOXO這種蛋白質 在圓形小蟲子體內找到的會影響壽命也可以影響人類的壽命所以我們現在在實驗室試著研發藥物可以刺激FOXO改用人類細胞才能進一步研發藥品延緩老化 和與年齡相關的疾病我對於此事能否成功相當樂觀 現在已知有許多不同的蛋白質都會影響老化至少對其中一種 可以用藥物控制這種蛋白質叫TOR 也是一種感應養分的蛋白質類似胰島素路徑如果TOR基因被突變破壞就會跟daf-2突變體一樣可以延長蟲子的壽命對蒼蠅和老鼠也都有效但是在這種情況 已經有一種叫rapamycin的免疫抑制劑會附著在TOR蛋白質上抑制它的活動如果你讓老鼠服用這種免疫抑制劑即使老鼠已經很老 像個60歲的人即使這種年齡的老鼠如果服用免疫抑制劑也會活更久 不過我並不是叫你們趕快去服用rapamycin它的確是人類使用的藥物但是它會抑制免疫系統因此用來避免接受器官移植的病人產生排斥現象因此它不是靈丹妙藥不是青春長駐的最佳選擇但是 現在是2011年的確有一種藥 如果給年事已高的老鼠服用可以延長牠們的壽命在研究中也證實對其他各種不同的動物也有效 因此我相當樂觀也認為我們的夢想已經近在咫尺長久以來青春長在的夢想即將成真 謝謝各位 (掌聲) 麥特‧雷德利：謝謝妳 辛西亞讓我澄清一下情況你在尋找的這種藥可以解決老化的問題對我種老頭子也有效現在你在實驗室中已經可以做到當然在不違背道德的前提下無中生有創造一個人並擁有改變過的基因 讓它可以活更久嗎？ 辛西亞：我剛剛說明的那種藥不會改變基因只會附著在蛋白質上改變其功能所以如果你停止服藥 蛋白質就會恢復成正常的狀態你也可以從基因上徹底改變不過現在還沒有這種科技但是我不覺得這是理想的做法因為這些荷爾蒙像是胰島素 IGF 還有TOR路徑是人體不可或缺的如果你徹底移除它們 會讓你生重病所以還是小心地做細微的調整只取其益 免受其害我認為才是比較理想的做法這種控制才是理想的藥物此外 還有其他方法可以刺激FOXO完全不涉及胰島素或IGF-1是更安全的方法 麥特：我沒有暗示說我想這麼做 不過...(笑聲)有一種現象 你有寫到也有提到就是微不足道的老化地球上有一些生物不太會變老麻煩靠過來一點 謝謝 辛西亞：的確 有些動物似乎不會變老例如 有一種陸龜叫流星澤龜可以長到這麼大追蹤的結果 發現牠們可以活到70歲當你看著這些70歲的烏龜如果只用看的 根本看不出差別牠們跟20歲的烏龜沒有兩樣還有 70歲的烏龜其實更善於找到良好的棲息地點每年也可以產下更多後代其他還有很多這類動物的例子像是燕鷗 或者其他鳥類就像這樣沒有人知道牠們是否可以長生不死或為何牠們不會老化現在還不清楚 如果你觀察鳥類 長壽的鳥類牠們的細胞通常較具抵抗力可以應對許多環境壓力例如高溫或過氧化氫這類的東西長壽的突變種生物也是這樣牠們比較能抵抗這些壓力所以有可能是我剛剛說明的那些路徑在蟲子體內運轉得非常快但在不同生物體內速度會不同例如鳥類 因此某隻鳥可以活較久甚至可能這些路徑運轉的速度在不會老化的動物體內是完全不同的 這一點尚待確認 麥特：但是你剛剛說的不是延長人類的壽命預防死亡而是延長青春歲月 辛西亞：對 就是這樣比較像是 假設你是一隻狗注意到自己開始變老了 不過你看看你的主人心裡想：為什麼這個人類不會變老？人類不會在狗的有生之年變老我說的比較像是這種情況但現在我們是以人類的角度 去想像另一種人類 麥特：非常感謝辛西亞‧凱尼恩 (掌聲)
