Talk	en	zh-tw
cynthia_schneider_the_surprising_spread_of_idol_tv	"I'd like to ask you, what do these three people have in common? Well, you probably recognize the first person. I'm sure you're all avid ""American Idol"" watchers. But you might not recognize Aydah Al Jahani, who is a contestant, indeed a finalist, in the Poet of the Millions competition, which is broadcast out of Abu Dhabi, and seen throughout the Arab world. In this contest people have to write and recite original poetry, in the Nabati form of poetry, which is the traditional Bedouin form. And Lima Sahar was a finalist in the Afghan Star singing competition. Now, before I go any further, yes, I know it all began with ""Britain's Got Talent."" But my point in discussing this is to show you — I hope I'll be able to show you how these merit-based competitions, with equal access to everyone, with the winner selected via voting by SMS, are changing tribal societies. And I'm going to focus on Afghanistan and the Arab world with the UAE, how they're changing tribal societies, not by introducing Western ideas, but by being integrated into the language in those places. It all begins with enjoyment. Video: We are late to watch ""Afghan Star."" We are going to watch ""Afghan Star."" We are late. We are running late. We must go to watch ""Afghan Star."" Cynthia Schneider: These programs are reaching incredibly deeply into society. In Afghanistan, people go to extraordinary lengths to be able to watch this program. And you don't necessarily have to have your own TV set. People watch it all over the country also in public places. But it goes beyond watching, because also, part of this is campaigning. People become so engaged that they have volunteers, just like political volunteers anyway, who fan out over the countryside, campaigning for their candidate. Contestants also put themselves forward. Now, of course there is a certain degree of ethnic allegiance, but not entirely. Because each year the winner has come from a different tribal group. This has opened up the door, particularly for women. And in the last season there were two women in the finalists. One of them, Lima Sahar, is a Pashtun from Kandahar, a very conservative part of the country. And here she relates, in the documentary film ""Afghan Star,"" how her friends urged her not to do this and told her that she was leaving them for democracy. But she also confides that she knows that members of the Taliban are actually SMS-ing votes in for her. Aydah Al Jahnani also took risks and put herself out, to compete in the Poet of the Millions competition. I have to say, her husband backed her from the start. But her tribe and family urged her not to compete and were very much against it. But, once she started to win, then they got behind her again. It turns out that competition and winning is a universal human value. And she's out there. Her poetry is about women, and the life of women in society. So just by presenting herself and being in competition with men — this shows the voting on the program — it sets a very important example for young women — these are young women in the audience of the program — in Abu Dhabi, but also people in the viewing audience. Now you'd think that ""American Idol"" would introduce a measure of Americanization. But actually, just the opposite is happening. By using this engaging popular format for traditional, local culture, it actually, in the Gulf, is precipitating a revival of interest in Nabati poetry, also in traditional dress and dance and music. And for Afghanistan, where the Taliban banned music for many years, it is reintroducing their traditional music. They don't sing pop songs, they sing Afghan music. And they also have learned how to lose gracefully, without avenging the winner. (Laughter) No small thing. And the final, sort of, formulation of this ""American Idol"" format, which has just appeared in Afghanistan, is a new program called ""The Candidate."" And in this program, people present policy platforms that are then voted on. Many of them are too young to run for president, but by putting the issues out there, they are influencing the presidential race. So for me, the substance of things unseen is how reality TV is driving reality. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想問各位這三個人有什麼共通點？你們可能認得第一位我想各位都是「美國偶像」的狂熱粉絲你們可能不知道這位Aydah Al Jahani她在「百萬詩人」比賽中進入決賽的選手這節目在阿布達比播出整個阿拉伯世界都看得到在這比賽中參賽者需要寫詩並朗誦一些古詩，Nabati詩這是一種傳統游牧民族的詩這位Lima Sahar是「阿富汗之星」歌唱比賽的決賽選手 在我繼續講下去之前是的我知道，這都是從「英國星光大道」開始的但我想討論這個的原因是希望讓你們看到這些選才能的比賽讓每個人都有平等機會參予透過簡訊投票選出冠軍這正改變著部落社會我要先說阿富汗包括阿拉伯聯合大公國在內的阿拉伯世界它們改變部落社會的方式不是使用西方的點子而是融合這些地方的語言 一切都從娛樂開始(影片): 「阿富汗之星」已經在播了趕快回家看「阿富汗之星」，已經在播了我們來不及了一定要趕快看「阿富汗之星」這些節目正以驚人的速度深入到社會中在阿富汗，人們利用各種方法就是要看到這節目不一定要有自己的電視機全國很多人都擠到公共場所收看這節目但這不只是觀看而已還要參予競賽的過程大家都很投入還有人志願，就像志願替政治人物拉票一樣的志願到各地替他們支持的選手拉票選手們也是親自出馬 當然，也有一定種族忠誠度，但並非全部因為每年的冠軍都來自不同部落每個人都有機會特別是女性在最後一季，有兩名女性進入決賽其中一位是Lima Sahar，她是來自坎大哈的普什圖人是全國非常保守的地區她在「阿富汗之星」的紀錄片裡談到她的朋友都勸她不要參賽說她為追求民主而離開他們她也吐露她知道塔利班成員也通過手機簡訊投票給她 Aydah Al Jahnani 也冒同樣的險站出來參加「百萬詩人」的比賽我必須說，她丈夫從一開始就支持她但她的部落和家人都勸她不要參加並且非常反對但她開始獲勝之後他們就轉而支持她了這說明了，比賽和獲勝是世界共通的人類價值她站出來她的詩描寫女性社會中的女性生活她代表自己和男人一起比賽從投票情況看來給年輕女性一個榜樣那些身為觀眾的年輕女性在阿布達比、和其他觀眾 你可能會想，「美國偶像」會帶來一定的美國化現象但事實正好相反利用這種受歡迎的模式融合傳統、當地文化反而在波斯灣地區再次興起了人們對於Nabati詩和傳統服飾、舞蹈、音樂的興趣對阿富汗人來說因為塔利班多年禁止音樂這節目再次引入了傳統音樂他們不唱流行樂而是唱阿富汗音樂他們也學會如何優雅的輸而不是向獲勝者報復(笑)不是件小事 最後，「美國偶像」的節目模式帶來了一個構想就是最近阿富汗的一個新節目叫「候選人」節目中有人提議政策讓大家投票很多人因年紀太輕無法競選總統但藉由提出的這些話題他們影響著總統選舉對我來說，這個無形現象的本質選秀節目操縱真實生活的過程謝謝(掌聲)
