Talk	en	zh-tw
dale_dougherty_we_are_makers	"I'm going to have a pretty simple idea that I'm just going to tell you over and over until I get you to believe it, and that is all of us are makers. I really believe that. All of us are makers. We're born makers. We have this ability to make things, to grasp things with our hands. We use words like ""grasp"" metaphorically to also think about understanding things. We don't just live, but we make. We create things. Well I'm going to show you a group of makers from Maker Faire and various places. It doesn't come out particularly well, but that's a particularly tall bicycle. It's a scraper bike; it's called — from Oakland. And this is a particularly small scooter for a gentleman of this size. But he's trying to power it, or motorize it, with a drill. (Laughter) And the question he had is, ""Can I do it? Can it be done?"" Apparently it can. So makers are enthusiasts; they're amateurs; they're people who love doing what they do. They don't always even know why they're doing it. We have begun organizing makers at our Maker Faire. There was one held in Detroit here last summer, and it will be held again next summer, at the Henry Ford. But we hold them in San Francisco — (Applause) — and in New York. And it's a fabulous event to just meet and talk to these people who make things and are there to just show them to you and talk about them and have a great conversation. (Video) Guy: I might get one of those. Dale Dougherty: These are electric muffins. Guy: Where did you guys get those? Muffin: Will you glide with us? (Guy: No.) DD: I know Ford has new electric vehicles coming out. We got there first. Lady: Will you glide with us? DD: This is something I call ""swinging in the rain."" And you can barely see it, but it's — a controller at top cycles the water to fall just before and after you pass through the bottom of the arc. So imagine a kid: ""Am I going to get wet? Am I going to get wet? No, I didn't get wet. Am I going to get wet? Am I going to get wet?"" That's the experience of a clever ride. And of course, we have fashion. People are remaking things into fashion. I don't know if this is called a basket-bra, but it ought to be something like that. We have art students getting together, taking old radiator parts and doing an iron-pour to make something new out of it. They did that in the summer, and it was very warm. Now this one takes a little bit of explaining. You know what those are, right? Billy-Bob, or Billy Bass, or something like that. Now the background is — the guy who did this is a physicist. And here he'll explain a little bit about what it does. (Video) Richard Carter: I'm Richard Carter, and this is the Sashimi Tabernacle Choir. Choir: ♫ When you hold me in your arms ♫ DD: This is all computer-controlled in an old Volvo. Choir: ♫ I'm hooked on a feelin' ♫ ♫ I'm high on believin' ♫ ♫ That you're in love with me ♫ DD: So Richard came up from Houston last year to visit us in Detroit here and show the wonderful Sashimi Tabernacle Choir. So, are you a maker? How many people here would say you're a maker, if you raise your hand? That's a pretty good — but there's some of you out there that won't admit that you're makers. And again, think about it. You're makers of food; you're makers of shelter; you're makers of lots of different things, and partly what interests me today is you're makers of your own world, and particularly the role that technology has in your life. You're really a driver or a passenger — to use a Volkswagen phrase. Makers are in control. That's what fascinates them. That's why they do what they do. They want to figure out how things work; they want to get access to it; and they want to control it. They want to use it to their own purpose. Makers today, to some degree, are out on the edge. They're not mainstream. They're a little bit radical. They're a bit subversive in what they do. But at one time, it was fairly commonplace to think of yourself as a maker. It was not something you'd even remark upon. And I found this old video. And I'll tell you more about it, but just ... (Music) (Video) Narrator: Of all things Americans are, we are makers. With our strengths and our minds and spirit, we gather, we form, and we fashion. Makers and shapers and put-it-togetherers. DD: So it goes on to show you people making things out of wood, a grandfather making a ship in a bottle, a woman making a pie — somewhat standard fare of the day. But it was a sense of pride that we made things, that the world around us was made by us. It didn't just exist. We made it, and we were connected to it that way. And I think that's tremendously important. Now I'm going to tell you one funny thing about this. This particular reel — it's an industrial video — but it was shown in drive-in theaters in 1961 — in the Detroit area, in fact — and it preceded Alfred Hitchcock's ""Psycho."" (Laughter) So I like to think there was something going on there of the new generation of makers coming out of this, plus ""Psycho."" This is Andrew Archer. I met Andrew at one of our community meetings putting together Maker Faire. Andrew had moved to Detroit from Duluth, Minnesota. And I talked to his mom, and I ended up doing a story on him for a magazine called Kidrobot. He's just a kid that grew up playing with tools instead of toys. He liked to take things apart. His mother gave him a part of the garage, and he collected things from yard sales, and he made stuff. And then he didn't particularly like school that much, but he got involved in robotics competitions, and he realized he had a talent, and, more importantly, he had a real passion for it. And he began building robots. And when I sat down next to him, he was telling me about a company he formed, and he was building some robots for automobile factories to move things around on the factory floor. And that's why he moved to Michigan. But he also moved here to meet other people doing what he's doing. And this kind of gets to this important idea today. This is Jeff and Bilal and several others here in a hackerspace. And there's about three hackerspaces or more in Detroit. And there's probably even some new ones since I've been here last. But these are like clubs — they're sharing tools, sharing space, sharing expertise in what to make. And so it's a very interesting phenomenon that's going across the world. But essentially these are people that are playing with technology. Let me say that again: playing. They don't necessarily know what they're doing or why they're doing it. They're playing to discover what the technology can do, and probably to discover what they can do themselves, what their own capabilities are. Now the other thing that I think is taking off, another reason making is taking off today, is there's some great new tools out there. And you can't see this very well on the screen, but Arduino — Arduino is an open-source hardware platform. It's a micro-controller. If you don't know what those are, they're just the ""brains."" So they're the brains of maker projects, and here's an example of one. And I don't know if you can see it that well, but that's a mailbox — so an ordinary mailbox and an Arduino. So you figure out how to program this, and you put this in your mailbox. And when someone opens your mailbox, you get a notification, an alert message goes to your iPhone. Now that could be a dog door, it could be someone going somewhere where they shouldn't, like a little brother into a little sister's room. There's all kinds of different things that you can imagine for that. Now here's something — a 3D printer. That's another tool that's really taken off — really, really interesting. This is Makerbot. And there are industrial versions of this — about 20,000 dollars. These guys came up with a kit version for 750 dollars, and that means that hobbyists and ordinary folks can get a hold of this and begin playing with 3D printers. Now they don't know what they want to do with it, but they're going to figure it out. They will only figure it out by getting their hands on it and playing with it. One of the coolest things is, Makerbot sent out an upgrade, some new brackets for the box. Well you printed out the brackets and then replaced the old brackets with the new ones. Isn't that cool? So makers harvest technology from all the places around us. This is a radar speed detector that was developed from a Hot Wheels toy. And they do interesting things. They're really creating new areas and exploring areas that you might only think — the military is doing drones — well, there is a whole community of people building autonomous airplanes, or vehicles — something that you could program to fly on its own, without a stick or anything, to figure out what path it's going. Fascinating work they're doing. We just had an issue on space exploration, DIY space exploration. This is probably the best time in the history of mankind to love space. You could build your own satellite and get it into space for like 8,000 dollars. Think how much money and how many years it took NASA to get satellites into space. In fact, these guys actually work for NASA, and they're trying to pioneer using off-the-shelf components, cheap things that aren't specialized that they can combine and send up into space. Makers are a source of innovation, and I think it relates back to something like the birth of the personal computer industry. This is Steve Wozniak. Where does he learn about computers? It's the Homebrew Computer Club — just like a hackerspace. And he says, ""I could go there all day long and talk to people and share ideas for free."" Well he did a little bit better than free. But it's important to understand that a lot of the origins of our industries — even like Henry Ford — come from this idea of playing and figuring things out in groups. Well, if I haven't convinced you that you're a maker, I hope I could convince you that our next generation should be makers, that kids are particularly interested in this, in this ability to control the physical world and be able to use things like micro-controllers and build robots. And we've got to get this into schools, or into communities in many, many ways — the ability to tinker, to shape and reshape the world around us. There's a great opportunity today — and that's what I really care about the most. An the answer to the question: what will America make? It's more makers. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我有個非常簡單的想法我打算一再闡述，直到說服你們為止我們全都是製造家我確實對這一點堅信不移我們全都是製造家天生就是製造家我們有能力製造物品用雙手掌握物品當我們說到瞭解事物時我們也會用「掌握」之類的字眼做比喻我們不只是活著，我們還製造創造事物我要跟各位介紹幾位製造家他們來自Maker Faire 創意盛會及世界各地這個成果並不是很好卻是一輛超高的自行車名稱是摩天輪車來自奧克蘭的創作對這種體型的男士來說這摩托車有點小但是他試著給它動力、裝上發動機用的是電鑽（笑聲）他想知道的是「我辦得到嗎？搞得定嗎？」顯然沒問題製造家是一群熱情的業餘者他們熱愛""製造""這件事他們甚至不見得知道為什麼要這麼做 我們已開始號召製造家到我們的Maker Faire創意盛會這場是去年夏天在底特律舉行的明年夏天將再次在亨利．福特博物館舉行但我們在舊金山也有舉行（掌聲）還有紐約這是一場棒極了的盛會可以跟這些製造家見面與交談他們會跟你展示他們創作的作品，並詳加介紹然後進行很棒的討論 （影片）男子： 我可能真的會去買這種東西 Dale Dougherty：這些是電動鬆餅 男子：你們從哪弄來的？ 鬆餅：你要跟我們一起滑行嗎？（男子：不） DD：我知道福特汽車公司要推出新型電動車我們先馳得點囉 女士：要不要跟我們一起滑行？ DD：我把這個叫做雨中鞦韆可能有點不容易看到不過它上面有個控制器，讓水周期性地落下就在你通過拱架下方之前和之後想像一下，孩子會想：「我會被淋濕嗎？會嗎？」「不，我沒被淋濕，我會被淋濕嗎？會嗎？」這是個聰明的盪鞦韆體驗我們當然也有時尚產品人們把物品改造成時尚產品我不知道這是否叫做籃球胸罩但應該是類似的名稱我們讓藝術系學生一起合作用舊的散熱器零件用鐵澆鑄做出一個新的東西他們是在夏天做的，當時天氣相當熱 這個需要解釋一下你們知道這些是什麼，對吧？Billy-Bob或Billy Bass（聲控跳舞魚）之類的製作它的人有物理學的背景他會解釋一下它的作用 （影片）Richard Carter：我是Richard Carter這是生魚片唱詩合唱團 合唱團：♫'當你把擁我在懷中♫ RC：這全由電腦操控在一輛老富豪車上 合唱團：♫我迷上一種感覺♫♫我興奮不已♫♫因為我相信你愛上我♫ DD：Richard去年從休斯頓來底特律拜訪我們展示了美妙的生魚片唱詩合唱團所以，你們是製造家嗎？在場有多少人會說自己是個製造家，舉一下手？相當不錯但還有些人不認為自己是製造家再想想看你們製作食物、製造房屋是許多不同事物的製造者現在我更感興趣的部分是你們是自己世界中的製造者尤其是技術在你生活中所扮演的角色套用福斯汽車的廣告詞你要嘛就作個開車的人，不然就只能當乘客製造的人握有掌控權這就是令製造家著迷的原因， 就是他們製造的原動力他們想弄清楚事物如何運作他們想使用它他們想掌控它他們想用它達成自己的目的 某種程度上來說，當今的製造家算是異類他們非主流他們有點激進他們所做的事有點顛覆性但曾經認為自己是一個製造家相當尋常甚至不足掛齒我找到這部舊影片待會兒我會再多談一些，我們先... （音樂） （影片）旁白：對美國人的最佳形容就是我們是製造家藉由我們的力量、思想和精神我們收集、形塑和設計我們是製造家也是塑造家也是拼湊家 DD：影片接下來呈現的是人們以木材製物祖父在瓶子裡做一艘船婦女做個派這些都是生活中稀鬆平常的事但這是種自豪的感覺我們用手做出東西我們周圍的世界是我們製造的它不只是存在它是我們製造的，我們也因此與之緊密相連我認為這非常重要現在我要說一個跟這有關的趣事這卷特殊的影帶是部商業影片它在1961年間在底特律地區的露天汽車電影院播放，事實上它比希區考克《驚魂記》一片還要早（笑聲）所以我認為其實早在當時就已經開始了新生代的製造家正從這片還有驚魂記中嶄露頭角 這是Andrew Archer我在號召Maker Faire盛會的一場社區會議中遇見AndrewAndrew搬到底特律從明尼蘇達州的德盧斯我跟他媽媽談過最後我為一本叫《Kidrobot》的雜誌寫了他的故事他是一個成長過程中不玩玩具而是玩工具的孩子他喜歡拆東西他媽媽把車庫部分空間讓給他他從舊貨拍賣會蒐集物品並製造東西他並不特別喜歡上學但他參加了機器人競賽意識到自己擁有這方面的天賦更重要的是，他對製造非常熱情他開始製造機器人當我坐在他旁邊時他向我述說他成立的一家公司他正為汽車工廠製造機器人用來在汽車廠房裏搬運東西這就是為什麼他搬到密西根州他搬到這裡的另一個原因是要與其他跟他有相同嗜好的人碰面講到這裡，我要介紹一個很重要的想法 這是Jeff、Bilal和其他人他們在一個駭客中心（hackerspace）底特律大概有3個駭客中心，或許更多從我上次來此之後，可能還有一些新成立的這些中心就像俱樂部他們共享工具、空間分享製造東西的專長這是個非常有趣的現象正遍及世界各地但基本上這些是玩科技的人我再說一次:「玩」他們不一定知道自己在做什麼，或為什麼這麼做他們在玩在發現這些科技可以做些什麼並可能發現自己能做什麼發現自己擁有哪些能力 我認為還有一件事情正在興起這也是促成製造這件事興起的原因之一就是出現了一些很棒的新工具你們在螢幕上可能看不太清楚不過Arduino，Arduino是一個開放源碼的硬體平台是一個微控制器如果你們不知道那是什麼，它們可以說是大腦它們是這些作品的大腦這是其中一個例子我不知道你們看得清不清楚，這是個信箱一個普通的信箱和一台Arduino當你瞭解如何幫它編寫程式之後你把這個放進你的信箱中當有人打開你的信箱時你就會收到通知警訊會傳到你的iPhone中可以裝在狗門上或是某人不該去的地方像是小弟弟到小妹妹的房間你可以想像出各種不同東西都可以利用這種裝置 這是台3D印表機另一個正起步的工具，真的很有趣這是Makerbot它有工業用的版本約20,000美元這些人想出一個簡易版本只售750美元這意味著，業餘愛好者和一般人都可以弄一台，開始玩3D印表機他們還不知道要用它做什麼但他們遲早會弄明白的他們得用手把玩後才能得知最酷的一件事是，Makerbot出了升級版可製作列印箱的新托架你可以列印出托架然後用新的取代舊的是不是很酷？ 因此，製造家從我們四周汲取科技元素這是一個雷達測速器利用Hotwheels玩具車改造的他們製造有趣的東西他們確實創造了新領域，探索一些領域你可能認為無人駕駛飛機只有軍隊在製造其實有一整群人在製造無人駕駛飛機或車輛就是你可以利用程式控制，讓它自主飛行而不用控制桿之類的，就可以控制它的飛行路徑他們所做的事情好迷人 我們最近才出了個太空探索的專題DIY太空探索這或許是人類歷史中熱愛太空最棒的時機你可以製造自己的衛星，送上太空只需花大約8000美元想想NASA用了多少錢和多少年才將衛星送上太空事實上，這些人確實為NASA工作他們正試著首創利用現成的零件非專業的便宜東西把這些東西加以組合然後送上太空 製造家是創新的來源我認為它與過去某些發展有關像是個人電腦產業的誕生這是Steve Wozniak，他在哪學電腦？這是車庫電腦俱樂部，就像個駭客中心他說，「我可以在那裡待一整天」「與人們交談」「並免費分享想法」其實他得到的比免費還要更好不過重要的是，我們要理解很多產業的起源甚至像亨利．福特他們原本的想法其實來自一群人一起玩，一起把東西搞清楚 嗯，如果我還沒說服你，說你其實是一個製造家我希望能說服你我們的下一代應該要作製造家孩子們對控制物理世界這種能力特別感興趣還有能使用像微控制器這樣的東西及製造機器人我們必須用各式各樣的方法把這些能力帶入校園或社區中改裝的能力塑造和重塑我們周圍世界的能力現在有個大好機會這也是我最在意的美國能製造出什麼？答案是: 更多的製造家 謝謝各位 （掌聲）"
