Talk	en	zh-tw
dalia_mogahed_the_attitudes_that_sparked_arab_spring	"My talk today is about something maybe a couple of you have already heard about. It's called the Arab Spring. Anyone heard of it? (Applause) So in 2011, power shifted, from the few to the many, from oval offices to central squares, from carefully guarded airwaves to open-source networks. But before Tahrir was a global symbol of liberation, there were representative surveys already giving people a voice in quieter but still powerful ways. I study Muslim societies around the world at Gallup. Since 2001, we've interviewed hundreds of thousands of people — young and old, men and women, educated and illiterate. My talk today draws on this research to reveal why Arabs rose up and what they want now. Now this region's very diverse, and every country is unique. But those who revolted shared a common set of grievances and have similar demands today. I'm going to focus a lot of my talk on Egypt. It has nothing to do with the fact that I was born there, of course. But it's the largest Arab country and it's also one with a great deal of influence. But I'm going to end by widening the lens to the entire region to look at the mundane topics of Arab views of religion and politics and how this impacts women, revealing some surprises along the way. So after analyzing mounds of data, what we discovered was this: Unemployment and poverty alone did not lead to the Arab revolts of 2011. If an act of desperation by a Tunisian fruit vendor sparked these revolutions, it was the difference between what Arabs experienced and what they expected that provided the fuel. To tell you what I mean, consider this trend in Egypt. On paper the country was doing great. In fact, it attracted accolades from multinational organizations because of its economic growth. But under the surface was a very different reality. In 2010, right before the revolution, even though GDP per capita had been growing at five percent for several years, Egyptians had never felt worse about their lives. Now this is very unusual, because globally we find that, not surprisingly, people feel better as their country gets richer. And that's because they have better job opportunities and their state offers better social services. But it was exactly the opposite in Egypt. As the country got more well-off, unemployment actually rose and people's satisfaction with things like housing and education plummeted. But it wasn't just anger at economic injustice. It was also people's deep longing for freedom. Contrary to the clash of civilizations theory, Arabs didn't despise Western liberty, they desired it. As early as 2001, we asked Arabs, and Muslims in general around the world, what they admired most about the West. Among the most frequent responses was liberty and justice. In their own words to an open-ended question we heard, ""Their political system is transparent and it's following democracy in its true sense."" Another said it was ""liberty and freedom and being open-minded with each other."" Majorities as high as 90 percent and greater in Egypt, Indonesia and Iran told us in 2005 that if they were to write a new constitution for a theoretical new country that they would guarantee freedom of speech as a fundamental right, especially in Egypt. Eighty-eight percent said moving toward greater democracy would help Muslims progress — the highest percentage of any country we surveyed. But pressed up against these democratic aspirations was a very different day-to-day experience, especially in Egypt. While aspiring to democracy the most, they were the least likely population in the world to say that they had actually voiced their opinion to a public official in the last month — at only four percent. So while economic development made a few people rich, it left many more worse off. As people felt less and less free, they also felt less and less provided for. So rather than viewing their former regimes as generous if overprotective fathers, they viewed them as essentially prison wardens. So now that Egyptians have ended Mubarak's 30-year rule, they potentially could be an example for the region. If Egypt is to succeed at building a society based on the rule of law, it could be a model. If, however, the core issues that propelled the revolution aren't addressed, the consequences could be catastrophic — not just for Egypt, but for the entire region. The signs don't look good, some have said. Islamists, not the young liberals that sparked the revolution, won the majority in Parliament. The military council has cracked down on civil society and protests and the country's economy continues to suffer. Evaluating Egypt on this basis alone, however, ignores the real revolution. Because Egyptians are more optimistic than they have been in years, far less divided on religious-secular lines than we would think and poised for the demands of democracy. Whether they support Islamists or liberals, Egyptians' priorities for this government are identical, and they are jobs, stability and education, not moral policing. But most of all, for the first time in decades, they expect to be active participants, not spectators, in the affairs of their country. I was meeting with a group of newly-elected parliamentarians from Egypt and Tunisia a couple of weeks ago. And what really struck me about them was that they weren't only optimistic, but they kind of struck me as nervous, for lack of a better word. One said to me, ""Our people used to gather in cafes to watch football"" — or soccer, as we say in America — ""and now they gather to watch Parliament."" (Laughter) ""They're really watching us, and we can't help but worry that we're not going to live up to their expectations."" And what really struck me is that less than 24 months ago, it was the people that were nervous about being watched by their government. And the reason that they're expecting a lot is because they have a new-found hope for the future. So right before the revolution we said that Egyptians had never felt worse about their lives, but not only that, they thought their future would be no better. What really changed after the ouster of Mubarak wasn't that life got easier. It actually got harder. But people's expectations for their future went up significantly. And this hope, this optimism, endured a year of turbulent transition. One reason that there's this optimism is because, contrary to what many people have said, most Egyptians think things really have changed in many ways. So while Egyptians were known for their single-digit turnout in elections before the revolution, the last election had around 70 percent voter turnout — men and women. Where scarcely a quarter believed in the honesty of elections in 2010 — I'm surprised it was a quarter — 90 percent thought that this last election was honest. Now why this matters is because we discovered a link between people's faith in their democratic process and their faith that oppressed people can change their situation through peaceful means alone. (Applause) Now I know what some of you are thinking. The Egyptian people, and many other Arabs who've revolted and are in transition, have very high expectations of the government. They're just victims of a long-time autocracy, expecting a paternal state to solve all their problems. But this conclusion would ignore a tectonic shift taking place in Egypt far from the cameras in Tahrir Square. And that is Egyptians' elevated expectations are placed first on themselves. In the country once known for its passive resignation, where, as bad as things got, only four percent expressed their opinion to a public official, today 90 percent tell us that if there's a problem in their community, it's up to them to fix it. (Applause) And three-fourths believe they not only have the responsibility, but the power to make change. And this empowerment also applies to women, whose role in the revolts cannot be underestimated. They were doctors and dissidents, artists and organizers. A full third of those who braved tanks and tear gas to ask or to demand liberty and justice in Egypt were women. (Applause) Now people have raised some real concerns about what the rise of Islamist parties means for women. What we've found about the role of religion in law and the role of religion in society is that there's no female consensus. We found that women in one country look more like the men in that country than their female counterparts across the border. Now what this suggests is that how women view religion's role in society is shaped more by their own country's culture and context than one monolithic view that religion is simply bad for women. Where women agree, however, is on their own role, and that it must be central and active. And here is where we see the greatest gender difference within a country — on the issue of women's rights. Now how men feel about women's rights matters to the future of this region. Because we discovered a link between men's support for women's employment and how many women are actually employed in professional fields in that country. So the question becomes, What drives men's support for women's rights? What about men's views of religion and law? [Does] a man's opinion of the role of religion in politics shape their view of women's rights? The answer is no. We found absolutely no correlation, no impact whatsoever, between these two variables. What drives men's support for women's employment is men's employment, their level of education as well as a high score on their country's U.N. Human Development Index. What this means is that human development, not secularization, is what's key to women's empowerment in the transforming Middle East. And the transformation continues. From Wall Street to Mohammed Mahmoud Street, it has never been more important to understand the aspirations of ordinary people. Thank you. (Applause)"	我今天的演講主題也許你們之中一些人已經聽說過了，它的名字叫作「阿拉伯之春」。有人聽說過嗎? (掌聲) 在西元2011年，權勢的重心由少數轉移至多數，自白宮移往市民的中央廣場，由被謹慎看管的廣播頻道轉移至開放的社群網路。但在塔利爾廣場成為國際間自由解放的象徵之前，具代表性的民意調查已經悄悄但權威性地為人民發聲。 我在蓋洛普 (美國民調機構) 研究世界各地的穆斯林社區。自2001年，我們已經訪問了數十萬人，老的少的，男性與女性，知識份子與文盲。今天的演講將引用這些研究結果來揭發為什麼阿拉伯人民憤而崛起，以及他們現在到底想得到什麼。 你要知道這個地區非常多元化，而且每一個國家都是獨一無二的。但是，那些參與革命的人們，曾懷著共同的怨憤不平，並於今日有著相似的訴求。我將會把演講的重心放在埃及。當然，這跟我在那裡出生的事實毫無關聯。它是最大的阿拉伯國家，並擁有極大的影響力。但在演講結束前我會把鏡頭放大到整個區域，來探索一些較世俗的課題。像是，阿拉伯人們對宗教與政治的看法，以及這些看法如何影響阿拉伯女性，並於途中揭開一些令人訝異的結果。 所以在分析了如小山般高的資料之後，我們發現了這個結果:失業率上升和人民的窮困並不是引起2011年阿拉伯國家革命的唯一原因。若一位突尼西亞水果販的絕望之行是引起革命的火花，那麼阿拉伯人所經歷的與他們的期望之間的鴻溝，正是革命延續的燃料。 我來舉個例，想想埃及的這個趨勢:表面上這個國家運行得很好。埃及的數據還吸引許多國際組織讚賞它的經濟成長。然而在表面之下的現實卻孑然不同。在2010年，革命的前夕，雖然人均GDP(國內生產毛額)已數年以5%的速率成長，埃及人卻從來沒有對自己的生活如此悲觀。 這挺奇怪的。因為於國際間我們通常預料，國家愈富足，人民感覺就愈良好。這是因為他們擁有更好的工作機會，而他們的政府也提供更完善的社會福利。但在埃及卻不然。隨著國家愈來愈富有，失業率竟然上升，而人民對於生活和教育等的品質，滿意度直直下滑。但不只是對於經濟正義之不公的怨憤，人民對自由的深深渴望也同時促進革命。不同於文明衝突論的觀點，阿拉伯人並不厭恨西方的自由主義，他們渴望自由。 早於2001年，我們就問世界各地的阿拉伯人和穆斯林，他們對西方社會最讚賞的是什麼。我們最常得到的答案之一，就是自由與正義。我們聽見他們如此回答這個開放式的問題：「他們(西方國家)的政治系統很透明，並真實地實現民主。」另一個人回答「擁有自由，以及能夠以開放的心胸對待彼此。」甚至有高達90%或更多的民眾，來自於埃及、印尼、和伊朗，於2005年就告訴我們，若他們要為一個假想的新國度，寫一份新憲法，他們會將視言論自由為人民的基本權利並加以保障。這在埃及尤其顯著。88%的人認為增進民主將有助於穆斯林教徒發展。這是我們所訪問的國家之中，百分比最高的。 然而人們日常生活的經驗和這些民主志願形成強烈對比。尤其是在埃及。雖然他們是最嚮往民主的族群，但他們卻是全世界最不可能於調查中回答說自己曾在最近一個月對公職人員表達看法的族群。僅有4%。所以經濟發展讓少數人富有的同時，卻使多數人生活情況更糟。隨著人民感到愈來愈不自由，他們也同時感受經濟愈來愈不穩定。以致於他們對當時政權的看法，並不是如慷慨但過分保護的嚴父，而實際是像獄卒一般。 如今埃及人成功地結束穆巴拉克三十年的獨裁，他們有機會成為整個地區的模範。倘若埃及成功地組織一個基於法治的新社會，它有可能成為一個範例。但是，如果那些激起革命的核心問題並沒有受到重視的話，將會引發災難性的後果。而且不只是對於埃及，而是整個地區。 有些人說，現在的跡象並不看好。伊斯蘭主義者，而不是那些引起革命的年輕自由主義份子，贏得了議會的多數席位。軍事委員組織已嚴格鎮壓民間社會及抗議行動。而埃及的經濟仍持續受創。但單靠這些依據衡量埃及的現況，並沒有考慮到真正的革命結果。因為現在的埃及人民比起從前要樂觀多了。他們看待宗教的隔閡，比我們想像的要和睦多了，並且認真地迎接民主的種種責任。 不管他們支持伊斯蘭主義者或是自由主義者，埃及人對這個政府的主要期望都一模一樣:要工作、穩定政局、和教育，而不是道德監控。最重要的昰，於數十年來，他們第一次期望成為國家政治中主動的參與者，而不是觀眾。 我幾星期前和一些埃及和突尼西亞新勝選的議員一起會面。他們引起我注意的在於，他們不只是樂觀，他們在我眼中看起來有些緊張，我不知該如何形容得更好。其中一人對我說:「我們的人民以前都一起在酒館看足球(football)」— 就是我們美國人說的soccer —「而現在他們都聚在一塊看議會。」(笑聲)「他們其實是在看著我們，而我們不自禁擔心，會不會沒有辦法滿足他們的期待。」引起我深深共鳴的是，不到兩年前，是人民感到緊張，害怕被政府監控。 而他們現在期望很高的原因是因為他們對於未來有著新的希望。我之前說，在革命發生前夕埃及人對他們的生活感觀是有史以來最差的，並認為他們的未來並不可能過得更好。穆巴拉克下台所帶來的真正改變，並不是使人民生活變得輕鬆，事實上人民的生活反而更艱辛。而是人們對於未來的期望，顯著提升。這充滿希望和樂觀的態度，克服了這一年以來動盪的過渡時期。 而這樂觀態度背後的原因之一是因為，相反於許多人所說的，多數的埃及人真正相信他們的世界有了許多改變。即使我們知道埃及人於革命前的選舉投票率僅有個位數。最近一次的選舉投票率高達70%，男性與女性共同參與。在2010年的選舉中，不到四分之一的人相信選舉是公正的— 我其實覺得有四分之一已挺令人訝異了 —相較之下，90%的人民認為最近這一次選舉是公正誠實的。為甚麼這如此重要?因為我們發現人民對於民主程序的信任和他們對於以和平的方式就能改變受欺壓的人民生活的牢固信念，環環相扣。 (掌聲) 然而我知道你們心裡都在想些什麼。埃及人民以及其他參與革命的阿拉伯人正在過渡時期，對政府有極高的期許。他們僅是長久以來獨裁政權的受害者，期待著國家如褓母般地解決他們所有的難題。但是如此的結論卻忽略發生在埃及的社會構造轉變。這些改變並不為塔利爾廣場中的攝影機所捕捉。這正是埃及人民所提高的期許，首先是針對自己。 這個國家的人們曾以被動屈服聞名，即使情況再糟，也僅有4%的人會向公職人員反應。今日90%的民眾向我們說，他們的社區若是出了問題他們所有人都有責任解決。(掌聲)而且，三分之四的民眾相信他們不只有責任還有能力，來引起這些改變。 這支強心劑作用的對象也包含阿拉伯女性。她們在革命中的地位，可不容忽視。她們有些是醫生和異議者，藝術家和總籌。在那些為了埃及追求自由與正義勇敢面對坦克車以及催淚瓦斯的人民中，有三分之一是女性。 (掌聲) 最近有些人提出實質的顧慮，擔憂伊斯蘭主義政黨的崛起對於女性的影響。我們發現的昰，針對宗教於法律的地位以及宗教在社會上的角色這個問題，於女性中並無共識。我們發現一個國家中女性的看法，比較類似該國家的男性，而與鄰國的女性想法歧異。這告訴我們，女性如何看待宗教信仰於社會中扮演的角色會受他們國家的文化現況影響，而不是單一化地認為，宗教對於女性是不利的。但是多數的女性都同意，他們自己所扮演的角色必須是積極並有重要性的。 而我們就是在女性權益這塊，看到同一國家中兩性看法的最大差異。而男性如何看待女權，將影響這個地區的未來。因為我們發現，男性對女性工作權的支持度和女性於專業領域的就業率是緊緊相關的。 所以問題變成，是什麼因素使男性支持女性權益?和男性對於宗教和法律的看法有關嗎?男人對於宗教於政治中扮演的角色的看法，會影響他們對女性權益的意見嗎?答案是不會。我們在這兩個因子間，找不出任何關聯或任何影響。影響男性對於女性就業的支持度其實是男性就業率、他們的教育程度、以及他們國家是否於聯合國人類發展指數(HDI)獲得高分。意思是人類發展，而不是去宗教化，才是在瞬息萬變的中東地區增進女性權利的關鍵。 這個蛻變會持續延燒。自華爾街至Mohammed Mahmoud街(開羅街名)，現今最重要不過的事，就是了解普通百姓心中的願望。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
