Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_buettner_how_to_live_to_be_100	"Something called the Danish Twin Study established that only about 10 percent of how long the average person lives, within certain biological limits, is dictated by our genes. The other 90 percent is dictated by our lifestyle. So the premise of Blue Zones: if we can find the optimal lifestyle of longevity we can come up with a de facto formula for longevity. But if you ask the average American what the optimal formula of longevity is, they probably couldn't tell you. They've probably heard of the South Beach Diet, or the Atkins Diet. You have the USDA food pyramid. There is what Oprah tells us. There is what Doctor Oz tells us. The fact of the matter is there is a lot of confusion around what really helps us live longer better. Should you be running marathons or doing yoga? Should you eat organic meats or should you be eating tofu? When it comes to supplements, should you be taking them? How about these hormones or resveratrol? And does purpose play into it? Spirituality? And how about how we socialize? Well, our approach to finding longevity was to team up with National Geographic, and the National Institute on Aging, to find the four demographically confirmed areas that are geographically defined. And then bring a team of experts in there to methodically go through exactly what these people do, to distill down the cross-cultural distillation. And at the end of this I'm going to tell you what that distillation is. But first I'd like to debunk some common myths when it comes to longevity. And the first myth is if you try really hard you can live to be 100. False. The problem is, only about one out of 5,000 people in America live to be 100. Your chances are very low. Even though it's the fastest growing demographic in America, it's hard to reach 100. The problem is that we're not programmed for longevity. We are programmed for something called procreative success. I love that word. It reminds me of my college days. Biologists term procreative success to mean the age where you have children and then another generation, the age when your children have children. After that the effect of evolution completely dissipates. If you're a mammal, if you're a rat or an elephant, or a human, in between, it's the same story. So to make it to age 100, you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle, you also have to have won the genetic lottery. The second myth is, there are treatments that can help slow, reverse, or even stop aging. False. When you think of it, there is 99 things that can age us. Deprive your brain of oxygen for just a few minutes, those brain cells die, they never come back. Play tennis too hard, on your knees, ruin your cartilage, the cartilage never comes back. Our arteries can clog. Our brains can gunk up with plaque, and we can get Alzheimer's. There is just too many things to go wrong. Our bodies have 35 trillion cells, trillion with a ""T."" We're talking national debt numbers here. (Laughter) Those cells turn themselves over once every eight years. And every time they turn themselves over there is some damage. And that damage builds up. And it builds up exponentially. It's a little bit like the days when we all had Beatles albums or Eagles albums and we'd make a copy of that on a cassette tape, and let our friends copy that cassette tape, and pretty soon, with successive generations that tape sounds like garbage. Well, the same things happen to our cells. That's why a 65-year-old person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12-year-old person. So, if there is nothing you can do to slow your aging or stop your aging, what am I doing here? Well, the fact of the matter is the best science tells us that the capacity of the human body, my body, your body, is about 90 years, a little bit more for women. But life expectancy in this country is only 78. So somewhere along the line, we're leaving about 12 good years on the table. These are years that we could get. And research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. We think the best way to get these missing years is to look at the cultures around the world that are actually experiencing them, areas where people are living to age 100 at rates up to 10 times greater than we are, areas where the life expectancy is an extra dozen years, the rate of middle age mortality is a fraction of what it is in this country. We found our first Blue Zone about 125 miles off the coast of Italy, on the island of Sardinia. And not the entire island, the island is about 1.4 million people, but only up in the highlands, an area called the Nuoro province. And here we have this area where men live the longest, about 10 times more centenarians than we have here in America. And this is a place where people not only reach age 100, they do so with extraordinary vigor. Places where 102 year olds still ride their bike to work, chop wood, and can beat a guy 60 years younger than them. (Laughter) Their history actually goes back to about the time of Christ. It's actually a Bronze Age culture that's been isolated. Because the land is so infertile, they largely are shepherds, which occasions regular, low-intensity physical activity. Their diet is mostly plant-based, accentuated with foods that they can carry into the fields. They came up with an unleavened whole wheat bread called carta musica made out of durum wheat, a type of cheese made from grass-fed animals so the cheese is high in Omega-3 fatty acids instead of Omega-6 fatty acids from corn-fed animals, and a type of wine that has three times the level of polyphenols than any known wine in the world. It's called Cannonau. But the real secret I think lies more in the way that they organize their society. And one of the most salient elements of the Sardinian society is how they treat older people. You ever notice here in America, social equity seems to peak at about age 24? Just look at the advertisements. Here in Sardinia, the older you get the more equity you have, the more wisdom you're celebrated for. You go into the bars in Sardinia, instead of seeing the Sports Illustrated swimsuit calendar, you see the centenarian of the month calendar. This, as it turns out, is not only good for your aging parents to keep them close to the family — it imparts about four to six years of extra life expectancy — research shows it's also good for the children of those families, who have lower rates of mortality and lower rates of disease. That's called the grandmother effect. We found our second Blue Zone on the other side of the planet, about 800 miles south of Tokyo, on the archipelago of Okinawa. Okinawa is actually 161 small islands. And in the northern part of the main island, this is ground zero for world longevity. This is a place where the oldest living female population is found. It's a place where people have the longest disability-free life expectancy in the world. They have what we want. They live a long time, and tend to die in their sleep, very quickly, and often, I can tell you, after sex. They live about seven good years longer than the average American. Five times as many centenarians as we have in America. One fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer, big killers here in America. And one sixth the rate of cardiovascular disease. And the fact that this culture has yielded these numbers suggests strongly they have something to teach us. What do they do? Once again, a plant-based diet, full of vegetables with lots of color in them. And they eat about eight times as much tofu as Americans do. More significant than what they eat is how they eat it. They have all kinds of little strategies to keep from overeating, which, as you know, is a big problem here in America. A few of the strategies we observed: they eat off of smaller plates, so they tend to eat fewer calories at every sitting. Instead of serving family style, where you can sort of mindlessly eat as you're talking, they serve at the counter, put the food away, and then bring it to the table. They also have a 3,000-year-old adage, which I think is the greatest sort of diet suggestion ever invented. It was invented by Confucius. And that diet is known as the Hara, Hatchi, Bu diet. It's simply a little saying these people say before their meal to remind them to stop eating when their stomach is [80] percent full. It takes about a half hour for that full feeling to travel from your belly to your brain. And by remembering to stop at 80 percent it helps keep you from doing that very thing. But, like Sardinia, Okinawa has a few social constructs that we can associate with longevity. We know that isolation kills. Fifteen years ago, the average American had three good friends. We're down to one and half right now. If you were lucky enough to be born in Okinawa, you were born into a system where you automatically have a half a dozen friends with whom you travel through life. They call it a Moai. And if you're in a Moai you're expected to share the bounty if you encounter luck, and if things go bad, child gets sick, parent dies, you always have somebody who has your back. This particular Moai, these five ladies have been together for 97 years. Their average age is 102. Typically in America we've divided our adult life up into two sections. There is our work life, where we're productive. And then one day, boom, we retire. And typically that has meant retiring to the easy chair, or going down to Arizona to play golf. In the Okinawan language there is not even a word for retirement. Instead there is one word that imbues your entire life, and that word is ""ikigai."" And, roughly translated, it means ""the reason for which you wake up in the morning."" For this 102-year-old karate master, his ikigai was carrying forth this martial art. For this hundred-year-old fisherman it was continuing to catch fish for his family three times a week. And this is a question. The National Institute on Aging actually gave us a questionnaire to give these centenarians. And one of the questions, they were very culturally astute, the people who put the questionnaire. One of the questions was, ""What is your ikigai?"" They instantly knew why they woke up in the morning. For this 102 year old woman, her ikigai was simply her great-great-great-granddaughter. Two girls separated in age by 101 and a half years. And I asked her what it felt like to hold a great-great-great-granddaughter. And she put her head back and she said, ""It feels like leaping into heaven."" I thought that was a wonderful thought. My editor at Geographic wanted me to find America's Blue Zone. And for a while we looked on the prairies of Minnesota, where actually there is a very high proportion of centenarians. But that's because all the young people left. (Laughter) So, we turned to the data again. And we found America's longest-lived population among the Seventh-Day Adventists concentrated in and around Loma Linda, California. Adventists are conservative Methodists. They celebrate their Sabbath from sunset on Friday till sunset on Saturday. A ""24-hour sanctuary in time,"" they call it. And they follow five little habits that conveys to them extraordinary longevity, comparatively speaking. In America here, life expectancy for the average woman is 80. But for an Adventist woman, their life expectancy is 89. And the difference is even more pronounced among men, who are expected to live about 11 years longer than their American counterparts. Now, this is a study that followed about 70,000 people for 30 years. Sterling study. And I think it supremely illustrates the premise of this Blue Zone project. This is a heterogeneous community. It's white, black, Hispanic, Asian. The only thing that they have in common are a set of very small lifestyle habits that they follow ritualistically for most of their lives. They take their diet directly from the Bible. Genesis: Chapter one, Verse [29], where God talks about legumes and seeds, and on one more stanza about green plants, ostensibly missing is meat. They take this sanctuary in time very serious. For 24 hours every week, no matter how busy they are, how stressed out they are at work, where the kids need to be driven, they stop everything and they focus on their God, their social network, and then, hardwired right in the religion, are nature walks. And the power of this is not that it's done occasionally, the power is it's done every week for a lifetime. None of it's hard. None of it costs money. Adventists also tend to hang out with other Adventists. So, if you go to an Adventist's party you don't see people swilling Jim Beam or rolling a joint. Instead they're talking about their next nature walk, exchanging recipes, and yes, they pray. But they influence each other in profound and measurable ways. This is a culture that has yielded Ellsworth Whareham. Ellsworth Whareham is 97 years old. He's a multimillionaire, yet when a contractor wanted 6,000 dollars to build a privacy fence, he said, ""For that kind of money I'll do it myself."" So for the next three days he was out shoveling cement, and hauling poles around. And predictably, perhaps, on the fourth day he ended up in the operating room. But not as the guy on the table; the guy doing open-heart surgery. At 97 he still does 20 open-heart surgeries every month. Ed Rawlings, 103 years old now, an active cowboy, starts his morning with a swim. And on weekends he likes to put on the boards, throw up rooster tails. And then Marge Deton. Marge is 104. Her grandson actually lives in the Twin Cities here. She starts her day with lifting weights. She rides her bicycle. And then she gets in her root-beer colored 1994 Cadillac Seville, and tears down the San Bernardino freeway, where she still volunteers for seven different organizations. I've been on 19 hardcore expeditions. I'm probably the only person you'll ever meet who rode his bicycle across the Sahara desert without sunscreen. But I'll tell you, there is no adventure more harrowing than riding shotgun with Marge Deton. ""A stranger is a friend I haven't met yet!"" she'd say to me. So, what are the common denominators in these three cultures? What are the things that they all do? And we managed to boil it down to nine. In fact we've done two more Blue Zone expeditions since this and these common denominators hold true. And the first one, and I'm about to utter a heresy here, none of them exercise, at least the way we think of exercise. Instead, they set up their lives so that they are constantly nudged into physical activity. These 100-year-old Okinawan women are getting up and down off the ground, they sit on the floor, 30 or 40 times a day. Sardinians live in vertical houses, up and down the stairs. Every trip to the store, or to church or to a friend's house occasions a walk. They don't have any conveniences. There is not a button to push to do yard work or house work. If they want to mix up a cake, they're doing it by hand. That's physical activity. That burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does. When they do do intentional physical activity, it's the things they enjoy. They tend to walk, the only proven way to stave off cognitive decline, and they all tend to have a garden. They know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook. Each of these cultures take time to downshift. The Sardinians pray. The Seventh-Day Adventists pray. The Okinawans have this ancestor veneration. But when you're in a hurry or stressed out, that triggers something called the inflammatory response, which is associated with everything from Alzheimer's disease to cardiovascular disease. When you slow down for 15 minutes a day you turn that inflammatory state into a more anti-inflammatory state. They have vocabulary for sense of purpose, ikigai, like the Okinawans. You know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born, because of infant mortality, and the year you retire. These people know their sense of purpose, and they activate in their life, that's worth about seven years of extra life expectancy. There's no longevity diet. Instead, these people drink a little bit every day, not a hard sell to the American population. (Laughter) They tend to eat a plant-based diet. Doesn't mean they don't eat meat, but lots of beans and nuts. And they have strategies to keep from overeating, little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time. And then the foundation of all this is how they connect. They put their families first, take care of their children and their aging parents. They all tend to belong to a faith-based community, which is worth between four and 14 extra years of life expectancy if you do it four times a month. And the biggest thing here is they also belong to the right tribe. They were either born into or they proactively surrounded themselves with the right people. We know from the Framingham studies, that if your three best friends are obese there is a 50 percent better chance that you'll be overweight. So, if you hang out with unhealthy people, that's going to have a measurable impact over time. Instead, if your friend's idea of recreation is physical activity, bowling, or playing hockey, biking or gardening, if your friends drink a little, but not too much, and they eat right, and they're engaged, and they're trusting and trustworthy, that is going to have the biggest impact over time. Diets don't work. No diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population. Exercise programs usually start in January; they're usually done by October. When it comes to longevity there is no short term fix in a pill or anything else. But when you think about it, your friends are long-term adventures, and therefore, perhaps the most significant thing you can do to add more years to your life, and life to your years. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	有個丹麥雙胞胎的研究證實在某種生物限制下人平均能活多久只有百分之十是基因所決定其他百分之九十是由生活方式決定所以藍寶地的前提是：如果我們能找到長壽的最佳生活方式我們就能得出一個實際的方法來增長壽命 不過假如你問一般美國人,長壽的方法是什麼他們大概說不出來他們可能聽說過南灘減肥法或阿金減肥法還有美國農業部提供的食物金字塔歐普拉說要這樣做歐茲博士說要那樣做 問題就在於意見太多混淆了真能幫助我們活得又好又久的方法你應該跑馬拉松還是做瑜珈？應該吃有機肉還是豆腐？說到營養食品,你該吃嗎？荷爾蒙或白藜蘆醇（紅酒裡的抗氧化物質）呢？做這些事有意義嗎？精神上呢？我們又該如何跟人相處？ 好,我們研究長壽的方法是跟國家地理還有國家老化研究院合作找出四個人口確定地理界線分明的區堿然後進駐一隊專家仔細看看那邊的人都從事什麼活動而來萃取出跨文化的精華 演講最後我會告訴你們精華是什麼不過首先我要破除一些常見的迷思長壽的迷思第一項迷思是：只要很努力就能活到一百歲錯困難就在,美國只有五千分之一的人能活到一百歲你的機會非常小雖然這是美國成長最快的數據還是很難達到一百歲問題就在於人類並非長壽的動物我們生而為一種叫做成功繁衍的動物我愛這個字眼它讓我想起大學生活 生物學家把這個詞定義為我們有了孩子時的年齡然後下一代,當我們的孩子也有了孩子時的年齡直到演化的效應完全消失為止假如你是哺乳類,假如你是隻老鼠或是大象、人、或之間任何生物都是一樣要活到一百歲,你不僅得有個良好的生活方式,你還得抽中基因頭彩 第二項迷思是有療程能減緩反轉、甚至停止老化錯仔細想,就知道有九十九件事能讓我們老化只要你的腦袋缺氧幾分鐘腦細胞就會死,從不復返打網球太激烈,膝蓋的軟骨組織就會受傷軟骨也一去不回我們的動脈會堵塞,腦斑會沉積在腦裡我們還會得老年癡呆症有太多事會出錯了 人的身體有三十五兆個細胞t開頭的trillion,我們現在其實是討論國債（笑聲）這些細胞每八年更新一次每次更新就會有所損傷,而傷害會累積累積以指數方式成長有點像以前我們都擁有披頭四或老鷹合唱團的唱片我們會拷貝一份到錄音帶上再讓朋友拷貝錄音帶很快地,代代相傳錄音帶就聽起來跟垃圾沒兩樣同樣的事也發生在我們的細胞上這就是為什麼一個六十五歲的人老化的速率比一個十二歲的人快一百二十五倍 那麼,如果我們做什麼都不能減緩或停止老化那我在這裡幹嘛？嗯,事實上最厲害的科學告訴我們說人體的限度我的身體，你的身體大約可用九十年女人久一點但我們國家的預期壽命只有七十八歲所以是我們在生命中某個時候擱置了十二年美好的光陰我們可以把這些日子討回來研究也顯示這些歲月大部份能不受慢性病所苦心臟病、癌症跟糖尿病 我們認為收回這些消失光陰最好的方法就是看看世界各地的文化有實際經驗的文化人能活到一百歲的比率比我們多出最多十倍的地方那些預期壽命多出十二年而中年死亡率相對於我們只是個分數的地方 我們發現的第一個藍寶地是在義大利海岸外約一百二十五英哩處，薩丁尼亞島上不是整座島，整座島約有一百四十萬人而是在高地上，一個叫努奧羅省的地方這裡的人最長壽百歲人瑞的數目大約比美國多出十倍這裡的人不僅活到一百歲而已他們還非常有活力一百零二歲的老人仍舊騎腳踏車去工作砍柴，還能打敗比自己年輕六十歲的小夥子（笑聲） 他們的歷史實際上能回溯到大約基督的時代那是個孤立的青銅器文化因為土地非常貧瘠所以大部份都是牧羊人勞力活動規律而不激烈他們的飲食多以植物為主特別是能帶到牧場上的食物他們想出一種未發酵的全麥麵包叫做notamusica,用硬粒小麥製作和一種乳酪,來自青草餵養的動物所以這種乳酪富含 Omega-3 脂肪酸而非 Omega-6 脂肪酸，來自穀物餵養的動物還有一種葡萄酒，它的多酚物質含量比世界所知的任何酒都多三倍叫做 Cannonau 不過我想真正的秘訣主要是他們組織社會的方式薩丁尼亞社會最突出的部份之一就是他們對待老人家的方式你有沒有注意到在美國，社會權益似乎二十四歲就到頂點了？只要瞧瞧那些廣告就知道而在薩丁尼亞，你愈老享有的權益愈多愈因智慧而受愛戴走進薩丁尼亞的酒吧你看不到運動畫刊的泳裝日曆而是看到百歲人瑞的月曆 事實證明，這不只讓老邁的父母跟家人更親近還增加預期壽命四到六年研究顯示這對家中的小孩也有益處死亡率和生病的比例都比較低這叫做祖母效應 我們找到的第二個藍寶地在地球另一邊大約位於東京南方八百英哩處的琉球群島上琉球實際上是一百六十一個小島組成而主島的北端是世界長壽的原點世界上最老的女性就是在這裡發現這裡的人有著世界上最長而無障礙的預期壽命他們有我們想要的活很久,往往在夢裡過世死得快而且我跟你講，常在做愛後 他們比一般美國人多快活七年有五倍於美國的百歲人瑞得結腸癌跟乳癌的比例是我們的五分之一兩者都是美國人的大剋星心血管疾病的比例是我們的六分之一這裡的文化能有這樣的成績明顯表示有些事他們能教我們他們是怎麼做的？同樣地,植物為主的飲食富有多種顏色的蔬菜而他們吃大約八倍多的豆腐比起美國人來說 比起吃什麼來說,吃的方式更重要他們有各種小技巧來避免過食而你們都知道，這在美國是大問題我們觀察到的一些技巧：他們吃飯的碟子比較小,所以每次用餐攝取的卡路里也就較少不以家庭聚餐的型式邊講話邊隨意吃的那種而是在櫃檯上菜,遠離飯菜再端上桌 他們還有一句流傳三千年的格言我認為是所有飲食建議中最好的是孔子想出來的被稱為腹八分飲食法是他們用餐前說的一句話來提醒自己吃到八分飽就好飽足感要花半小時才能從肚子傳到腦袋藉由記住吃到八分飽就好就能幫助你不會吃過量 而就像薩丁尼亞,琉球有些社會結構跟長壽相關我們都知道孤單會害死人十五年前美國人平均有三個好朋友現在我們只有一個半假如你夠幸運生在琉球你會生在一種體系裡讓你自動擁有半打朋友與他們共同生活他們稱為模合,假如你處於某個模合走運時別人會期待你慷慨分享假如不幸的話孩子生病、父母去世總有人會在背後支持你這個「模合」,這五個女士相處在一起九十七年了她們的平均年齡是一百零二歲 通常在美國我們會把成人生活分成兩段一段是工作我們充滿生產力接著有一天,碰,我們退休通常這指的就是在安樂椅上睡覺或去亞歷桑那州打高爾夫在琉球語裡甚至沒有退休這個詞反而是有個詞盈繞你一生這個詞是「生き甲斐」(生存的價值)粗略的翻譯是：「早上起床的理由」 對這位一百零二歲的空手道師父來說他的生存價值就是發揚武術對這位一百歲的漁夫來說就是為他的家人,持續一個禮拜捕三次魚國家老化研究院提出這個問題研究院要我們替這些百歲人瑞做一份問卷調查其中一個問題對填問卷的人來說對他們背後的文化非常敏感這個問題是「你生存的價值是什麼？」不需思考就知道的,早上起床的理由對這位一百零二歲的老太太來說,她的生存價值不過就在於她的曾曾曾孫女兩個人差了一百零一歲半我問她感覺如何抱著自己的曾曾曾孫女她回過頭說：「就像飛躍上天堂」我覺得這想法很棒 我國家地理的編輯要我去找美國的藍寶地有陣子我們將目光放在明尼蘇達的草原那裡百歲人瑞的比例非常高不過是因為年輕人全都離開了（笑聲）所以我們又回看資料找到了美國最長壽的居民是基督復臨安息日會的教友集中在加州的羅瑪林達市基督復臨派是保守的衛理公會教徒他們所守的安息日是從星期五日落到星期六日出他們稱此為,「二十四時的庇護」而且他們所遵循的五個小習慣賦予了他們相對來說格外長的壽命 美國的預期壽命女性平均是八十歲但基督復臨派的女教友她們的預期壽命是八十九男性之間的差異更明顯他們預期能多活十一年比起美國同伴來說這個研究追蹤了大約七萬人三十年很傑出的研究,而且我認為完全展示出了藍寶地計畫的基礎 這是一個多種族的社區有白人、黑人、西裔、亞洲人他們唯一共有的是一套生活小習慣他們生命中大部份時間都如同儀式般地遵從他們直接跟從聖經中的飲食創世紀第一章第二十六節上帝談到豆莢跟種子另一節則是談到綠色植物很明顯少了肉他們非常認真地看待這個庇護時間 每個禮拜二十四小時不管多忙,工作壓力多大還要催促小孩他們停下一切,專注於他們的上帝將社交生活與宗教聯繫起來也就是走進大自然強大之處不在於偶爾為之而在固定每個禮拜而維持一生一點都不困難,一點都不花錢基督復臨派教徒往往跟同派教徒來往所以,假如你參加一個基督復臨派的宴會不會看到他們痛飲金賓威士忌或捲大麻煙相反地他們會討論下一次的自然步行交換食譜,當然還有,祈禱他們彼此在各方面都有深刻且明顯的影響 這個文化造就了埃爾斯沃·偉倫這樣的人埃爾斯沃·偉倫九十七歲他是千萬富翁可是當包商要求六千美金來建造私人圍籬時他說：「這個價錢我不如自己動手」所以接下來的三天他都在外頭鏟水泥把欄杆拖來拖去可以猜想,也許到第四天他會被送進手術室但不是手術台上這個人而是在動開心手術的這個人九十七歲的高齡他一個月仍動二十次開心手術 艾德·羅林斯,現在一百零三歲是一個活躍的牛仔,早起來就開始游泳週末他喜歡踏上衝浪板讓浪花高揚 然後這位是瑪琪·戴通瑪琪一百零四歲她孫子剛好就住在雙子城這裡她每天做的第一件事就是舉重騎腳踏車然後坐上她沙士色的車1994年的塞維利亞凱迪拉克奔馳在聖博納迪諾郡的高速公路上在那邊她仍是七個不同組織的志工我曾參與十九次冒險活動我大概是唯一你認識的人裡不塗防曬油還可以騎腳踏車穿越撒哈拉沙漠的人不過我跟你說,沒有任何探險比坐她車的前座還恐怖的了她跟我說：「陌生人不過是一個我還沒遇到的朋友罷了！」 那麼,三個文化裡有什麼共同點呢？什麼事是他們全都做的？我們試著歸納出九項其實完成這個之後我們還多考查了兩個藍寶地不過這幾項共同點依然適用第一項我即將要提出一項悖論就是他們都不運動至少是我們所認為的運動相反地,他們建立起的生活能讓他們一直勞動身體這些百歲的琉球女人她們坐在地板上,起身又坐下一天三、四十回 薩丁尼亞人住在直立的樓房裡,樓梯爬上爬下每次去商店或教堂或去朋友家都要走路一點都不方便沒有一個能清掃院子或做家事的按鈕可按如果想攪拌奶油來做蛋糕,他們會用手這就是體力勞動就像跑跑步機一樣能燃燒卡路里他們真存心想活動筋骨時會做他們喜歡做的事,他們會去散步這是唯一證實能延遲認知功能老化的方法而且他們往往都有個花園他們知道如何以正確的方式生活所以他們有正確的人生觀 這三個文化都花時間在減慢節奏上薩丁尼亞人祈禱,督復臨派教徒祈禱琉球人敬祖但當你匆匆促促或焦慮不安會引發一種發炎反應這反應跟很多病相關,從老年痴呆到心血管疾病你如果一天放慢個十五分鐘就會改變這個發炎狀態反而變成更加抗炎的狀態 他們都替使命感創造出詞彙像琉球人的「生き甲斐」你知道自己生命最危險的兩年是出生那年,因為嬰兒死亡率還有退休那年如果人了解自己的使命感又在生活中努力實現,這價值大約是七年的預期壽命 他們沒有長壽飲食相反地,這些人每天都小酌一番很容易向美國人推銷這個（笑聲）他們的飲食往往以植物為主不是說他們不吃肉,但他們吃很多豆類跟堅果而且他們都有方法避免過食一些小技巧能在適當時刻讓他們遠離餐桌 所有這些的基礎是他們彼此連繫的方式他們把家人擺第一照顧好小孩跟年邁父母他們全都屬於一個以誠信為本的社會而這價值四到十四年額外的預期壽命假如你維持一個月四次的話而最重要的是他們還從屬於恰當的部落他們不是生來就遇到對的人就是他們積極結交恰當的朋友 我們從佛明罕研究中得知如果你三個最好的朋友都胖你有一半以上的機率會變胖所以,假如你跟不健康的人來往隨著時間就會有顯著的影響相反地,假如你朋友的休閒活動是體力活動,保齡球或打曲棍球騎腳踏車或園藝假如你的朋友會喝點酒,但不過量他們吃得恰當,十分注重,且信任你,也值得信賴慢慢地這會產生舉足輕重的影響 節食沒用,節食在世界歷史上影響未曾超過百分之二的人口運動計劃通常一月開始十月就結束而關於長壽並沒有短期的方案一顆藥丸,或什麼其他的不過想想看交朋友是長期的冒險也因此,也許這是你能做的最大的改變來替生命增加年歲替年歲增添生命,非常感謝你們（鼓掌）
