Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_ariely_on_our_buggy_moral_code	"I want to talk to you today a little bit about predictable irrationality. And my interest in irrational behavior started many years ago in the hospital. I was burned very badly. And if you spend a lot of time in hospital, you'll see a lot of types of irrationalities. And the one that particularly bothered me in the burn department was the process by which the nurses took the bandage off me. Now, you must have all taken a Band-Aid off at some point, and you must have wondered what's the right approach. Do you rip it off quickly — short duration but high intensity — or do you take your Band-Aid off slowly — you take a long time, but each second is not as painful — which one of those is the right approach? The nurses in my department thought that the right approach was the ripping one, so they would grab hold and they would rip, and they would grab hold and they would rip. And because I had 70 percent of my body burned, it would take about an hour. And as you can imagine, I hated that moment of ripping with incredible intensity. And I would try to reason with them and say, ""Why don't we try something else? Why don't we take it a little longer — maybe two hours instead of an hour — and have less of this intensity?"" And the nurses told me two things. They told me that they had the right model of the patient — that they knew what was the right thing to do to minimize my pain — and they also told me that the word patient doesn't mean to make suggestions or to interfere or ... This is not just in Hebrew, by the way. It's in every language I've had experience with so far. And, you know, there's not much — there wasn't much I could do, and they kept on doing what they were doing. And about three years later, when I left the hospital, I started studying at the university. And one of the most interesting lessons I learned was that there is an experimental method that if you have a question you can create a replica of this question in some abstract way, and you can try to examine this question, maybe learn something about the world. So that's what I did. I was still interested in this question of how do you take bandages off burn patients. So originally I didn't have much money, so I went to a hardware store and I bought a carpenter's vice. And I would bring people to the lab and I would put their finger in it, and I would crunch it a little bit. (Laughter) And I would crunch it for long periods and short periods, and pain that went up and pain that went down, and with breaks and without breaks — all kinds of versions of pain. And when I finished hurting people a little bit, I would ask them, so, how painful was this? Or, how painful was this? Or, if you had to choose between the last two, which one would you choose? (Laughter) I kept on doing this for a while. (Laughter) And then, like all good academic projects, I got more funding. I moved to sounds, electrical shocks — I even had a pain suit that I could get people to feel much more pain. But at the end of this process, what I learned was that the nurses were wrong. Here were wonderful people with good intentions and plenty of experience, and nevertheless they were getting things wrong predictably all the time. It turns out that because we don't encode duration in the way that we encode intensity, I would have had less pain if the duration would have been longer and the intensity was lower. It turns out it would have been better to start with my face, which was much more painful, and move toward my legs, giving me a trend of improvement over time — that would have been also less painful. And it also turns out that it would have been good to give me breaks in the middle to kind of recuperate from the pain. All of these would have been great things to do, and my nurses had no idea. And from that point on I started thinking, are the nurses the only people in the world who get things wrong in this particular decision, or is it a more general case? And it turns out it's a more general case — there's a lot of mistakes we do. And I want to give you one example of one of these irrationalities, and I want to talk to you about cheating. And the reason I picked cheating is because it's interesting, but also it tells us something, I think, about the stock market situation we're in. So, my interest in cheating started when Enron came on the scene, exploded all of a sudden, and I started thinking about what is happening here. Is it the case that there was kind of a few apples who are capable of doing these things, or are we talking a more endemic situation, that many people are actually capable of behaving this way? So, like we usually do, I decided to do a simple experiment. And here's how it went. If you were in the experiment, I would pass you a sheet of paper with 20 simple math problems that everybody could solve, but I wouldn't give you enough time. When the five minutes were over, I would say, ""Pass me the sheets of paper, and I'll pay you a dollar per question."" People did this. I would pay people four dollars for their task — on average people would solve four problems. Other people I would tempt to cheat. I would pass their sheet of paper. When the five minutes were over, I would say, ""Please shred the piece of paper. Put the little pieces in your pocket or in your backpack, and tell me how many questions you got correctly."" People now solved seven questions on average. Now, it wasn't as if there was a few bad apples — a few people cheated a lot. Instead, what we saw is a lot of people who cheat a little bit. Now, in economic theory, cheating is a very simple cost-benefit analysis. You say, what's the probability of being caught? How much do I stand to gain from cheating? And how much punishment would I get if I get caught? And you weigh these options out — you do the simple cost-benefit analysis, and you decide whether it's worthwhile to commit the crime or not. So, we try to test this. For some people, we varied how much money they could get away with — how much money they could steal. We paid them 10 cents per correct question, 50 cents, a dollar, five dollars, 10 dollars per correct question. You would expect that as the amount of money on the table increases, people would cheat more, but in fact it wasn't the case. We got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit. What about the probability of being caught? Some people shredded half the sheet of paper, so there was some evidence left. Some people shredded the whole sheet of paper. Some people shredded everything, went out of the room, and paid themselves from the bowl of money that had over 100 dollars. You would expect that as the probability of being caught goes down, people would cheat more, but again, this was not the case. Again, a lot of people cheated by just by a little bit, and they were insensitive to these economic incentives. So we said, ""If people are not sensitive to the economic rational theory explanations, to these forces, what could be going on?"" And we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces. At one hand, we all want to look at ourselves in the mirror and feel good about ourselves, so we don't want to cheat. On the other hand, we can cheat a little bit, and still feel good about ourselves. So, maybe what is happening is that there's a level of cheating we can't go over, but we can still benefit from cheating at a low degree, as long as it doesn't change our impressions about ourselves. We call this like a personal fudge factor. Now, how would you test a personal fudge factor? Initially we said, what can we do to shrink the fudge factor? So, we got people to the lab, and we said, ""We have two tasks for you today."" First, we asked half the people to recall either 10 books they read in high school, or to recall The Ten Commandments, and then we tempted them with cheating. Turns out the people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments — and in our sample nobody could recall all of The Ten Commandments — but those people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments, given the opportunity to cheat, did not cheat at all. It wasn't that the more religious people — the people who remembered more of the Commandments — cheated less, and the less religious people — the people who couldn't remember almost any Commandments — cheated more. The moment people thought about trying to recall The Ten Commandments, they stopped cheating. In fact, even when we gave self-declared atheists the task of swearing on the Bible and we give them a chance to cheat, they don't cheat at all. Now, Ten Commandments is something that is hard to bring into the education system, so we said, ""Why don't we get people to sign the honor code?"" So, we got people to sign, ""I understand that this short survey falls under the MIT Honor Code."" Then they shredded it. No cheating whatsoever. And this is particularly interesting, because MIT doesn't have an honor code. (Laughter) So, all this was about decreasing the fudge factor. What about increasing the fudge factor? The first experiment — I walked around MIT and I distributed six-packs of Cokes in the refrigerators — these were common refrigerators for the undergrads. And I came back to measure what we technically call the half-lifetime of Coke — how long does it last in the refrigerators? As you can expect it doesn't last very long; people take it. In contrast, I took a plate with six one-dollar bills, and I left those plates in the same refrigerators. No bill ever disappeared. Now, this is not a good social science experiment, so to do it better I did the same experiment as I described to you before. A third of the people we passed the sheet, they gave it back to us. A third of the people we passed it to, they shredded it, they came to us and said, ""Mr. Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X dollars."" A third of the people, when they finished shredding the piece of paper, they came to us and said, ""Mr Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X tokens."" We did not pay them with dollars; we paid them with something else. And then they took the something else, they walked 12 feet to the side, and exchanged it for dollars. Think about the following intuition. How bad would you feel about taking a pencil from work home, compared to how bad would you feel about taking 10 cents from a petty cash box? These things feel very differently. Would being a step removed from cash for a few seconds by being paid by token make a difference? Our subjects doubled their cheating. I'll tell you what I think about this and the stock market in a minute. But this did not solve the big problem I had with Enron yet, because in Enron, there's also a social element. People see each other behaving. In fact, every day when we open the news we see examples of people cheating. What does this cause us? So, we did another experiment. We got a big group of students to be in the experiment, and we prepaid them. So everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment, and we told them that at the end, we asked them to pay us back the money they didn't make. OK? The same thing happens. When we give people the opportunity to cheat, they cheat. They cheat just by a little bit, all the same. But in this experiment we also hired an acting student. This acting student stood up after 30 seconds, and said, ""I solved everything. What do I do now?"" And the experimenter said, ""If you've finished everything, go home. That's it. The task is finished."" So, now we had a student — an acting student — that was a part of the group. Nobody knew it was an actor. And they clearly cheated in a very, very serious way. What would happen to the other people in the group? Will they cheat more, or will they cheat less? Here is what happens. It turns out it depends on what kind of sweatshirt they're wearing. Here is the thing. We ran this at Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh. And at Pittsburgh there are two big universities, Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh. All of the subjects sitting in the experiment were Carnegie Mellon students. When the actor who was getting up was a Carnegie Mellon student — he was actually a Carnegie Mellon student — but he was a part of their group, cheating went up. But when he actually had a University of Pittsburgh sweatshirt, cheating went down. (Laughter) Now, this is important, because remember, when the moment the student stood up, it made it clear to everybody that they could get away with cheating, because the experimenter said, ""You've finished everything. Go home,"" and they went with the money. So it wasn't so much about the probability of being caught again. It was about the norms for cheating. If somebody from our in-group cheats and we see them cheating, we feel it's more appropriate, as a group, to behave this way. But if it's somebody from another group, these terrible people — I mean, not terrible in this — but somebody we don't want to associate ourselves with, from another university, another group, all of a sudden people's awareness of honesty goes up — a little bit like The Ten Commandments experiment — and people cheat even less. So, what have we learned from this about cheating? We've learned that a lot of people can cheat. They cheat just by a little bit. When we remind people about their morality, they cheat less. When we get bigger distance from cheating, from the object of money, for example, people cheat more. And when we see cheating around us, particularly if it's a part of our in-group, cheating goes up. Now, if we think about this in terms of the stock market, think about what happens. What happens in a situation when you create something where you pay people a lot of money to see reality in a slightly distorted way? Would they not be able to see it this way? Of course they would. What happens when you do other things, like you remove things from money? You call them stock, or stock options, derivatives, mortgage-backed securities. Could it be that with those more distant things, it's not a token for one second, it's something that is many steps removed from money for a much longer time — could it be that people will cheat even more? And what happens to the social environment when people see other people behave around them? I think all of those forces worked in a very bad way in the stock market. More generally, I want to tell you something about behavioral economics. We have many intuitions in our life, and the point is that many of these intuitions are wrong. The question is, are we going to test those intuitions? We can think about how we're going to test this intuition in our private life, in our business life, and most particularly when it goes to policy, when we think about things like No Child Left Behind, when you create new stock markets, when you create other policies — taxation, health care and so on. And the difficulty of testing our intuition was the big lesson I learned when I went back to the nurses to talk to them. So I went back to talk to them and tell them what I found out about removing bandages. And I learned two interesting things. One was that my favorite nurse, Ettie, told me that I did not take her pain into consideration. She said, ""Of course, you know, it was very painful for you. But think about me as a nurse, taking, removing the bandages of somebody I liked, and had to do it repeatedly over a long period of time. Creating so much torture was not something that was good for me, too."" And she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her. But it was actually more interesting than that, because she said, ""I did not think that your intuition was right. I felt my intuition was correct."" So, if you think about all of your intuitions, it's very hard to believe that your intuition is wrong. And she said, ""Given the fact that I thought my intuition was right ..."" — she thought her intuition was right — it was very difficult for her to accept doing a difficult experiment to try and check whether she was wrong. But in fact, this is the situation we're all in all the time. We have very strong intuitions about all kinds of things — our own ability, how the economy works, how we should pay school teachers. But unless we start testing those intuitions, we're not going to do better. And just think about how better my life would have been if these nurses would have been willing to check their intuition, and how everything would have been better if we just start doing more systematic experimentation of our intuitions. Thank you very much."	"今日我想要稍微談論那些預知的非理性我對非理性的行為態度產生興趣從很多年以前開始，在一個醫院裏當時我嚴重燒傷如果你在醫院裏待了很長時間你將會看見許多不同類型的荒謬在醫院的燒燙傷部門讓我最難以接受的荒謬發生在護士為我拆除繃帶的時候每個人應該都有使用OK繃的經驗你也應該想過怎樣撕掉才是最好的你是瞬間撕開 － 時間短但很痛還是慢慢地把它撕掉雖然時間長，但感覺不這麼痛哪一種才是比較好的方式？ 當時在我部門的護士認為一次快速的撕開才是正確的她們緊抓，然後撕開然後再緊抓，再撕開當時我身體有百分之七十的燒傷，整個過程要一個小時你可以想像我非常痛恨撕開繃帶 極端痛苦的那刻我努力地想和她們講理“我們不能試試其他方法嗎？我們不能花長一點的時間或許兩個小時 － 讓痛苦不要這麼強烈？""護士告訴我兩件事她們告訴我她們知道什麼對患者是最好的她們知道如何減低我的痛苦並且患者這個詞的意思不包括”提出建議”或“嘗試干涉”不只在希伯來文是如此幾乎我目前遇見的所有語言都是如此 於是我無能為力她們繼續她們的方法三年後，當我離開醫院時我開始在大學做研究我在學校裏學的最有趣的事情是“實驗法”的存在你可以靠複製經驗 來嘗試找出解答抽象地說，你可以試著檢驗你的問題以嘗試瞭解這個世界上的事情 於是我就這麼做了我仍然對如何撕開患者身上的繃帶這個問題很有興趣剛開始我沒有什麼資金我去五金行買了一個木匠用的老虎鉗我把那些來到實驗室的人的手指放到裏面然後“嘎吱”一下 （笑聲） 我會用較長的時間或較短的時間擠壓那些較為嚴重的痛 和較輕微的痛有休息的 和沒有休息的 － 許多不同種類的痛當我結束傷害他們的時候，我會問這樣有多痛？那樣又有多痛？如果你可以從中選擇一種的話你會選擇哪一種？ （笑聲） 我這麼做了一陣子 （笑聲） 就像所有優秀的學術研究一樣，我有更多資金我開始加入聲波，電擊我甚至製作了一件“疼痛服”讓人們能感受到更多痛楚 但在研究結束後我發覺護士們是錯的雖然她們都是善良的人經驗豐富，但就算如此她們的觀念仍然是錯誤的因為在我們測量痛楚時我們並沒有考慮到延續性如果把時間拉長我的痛楚就會減低最好的方法是從最痛的臉部開始再逐漸地往腿部下移讓我有一種逐漸減緩的感覺這樣也能減低我的痛苦如果我可以在過程中稍作休息讓我有一些時間從痛楚中恢復這所有的方法都能改善我當時的情況但這些護士卻毫無所悉 從那時我開始想這些護士是全世界唯一有這種錯誤認知的人在這件特別的事情上，還是這其實是一種普遍現象？於是我發現 其實這是一個普遍現象我們時常犯下這樣的錯誤在這裏我想以作弊作為例子來討論這些非理性我選擇作弊的原因是因為它很有趣也因為它也為我們現在股市的現狀提供了一些線索我對作弊的興趣從美國安隆公司突然爆發醜聞開始我開始思考究竟發生了什麼事難道這是來自一些害群之馬才能犯下的例子還是一種地方性的現象許多人都抱持著這樣的態度？ 於是，我們決定故技重施，進行一些簡單的試驗我們是這樣做的如果你參加了這個實驗，我會給你一張紙上面有二十個人人能解決的簡單數學問題但我不會給你足夠的時間當五分鐘到了以後，我會說“把紙交給我，答對一題我就給你一塊錢。”人們這麼做了。我付他們四塊平均來說，人可以解決四個問題我嘗試引誘其中一些人作弊我會給他們一張紙五分鐘到了以後，我會說“請將那張紙撕碎把碎片放在口袋或是背包裏，然後告訴我你答對了幾題。”平均突然從四題變成了七題不是有幾個害群之馬 —換句話說，一小群人作很大的弊而是一大群人作一些小弊 在經濟學理論上作弊是一種非常簡單的成本效益分析被抓到的可能性有多高？我作弊的好處有多少？被抓到會有怎樣的懲罰？你衡量這些選項一個簡單的成本效益分析然後決定是否值得犯下罪行我們對此進行一些測驗我們開始給他們不同數目的金錢他們所能偷竊的數目我們給他們十分錢，五十分一塊錢，五塊錢，到十塊錢一個問題 你預估當桌上的錢增多時人們也更願意作弊。但事實上卻不是仍有許多人為了很少的金錢作弊那難道是被抓到的可能性嗎？有些人只撕了半張紙還有些證據留下有些人撕碎了整張紙有些人徹底撕碎了全部，走出房間然後從放有超過百元美金的碗裏拿走錢你會預估當被抓的可能性降低人們作弊的幾率便會提升，但卻不是如此又一次地，許多人作了一些小弊人們並沒被這些經濟學所說的誘因影響 我們想“如果這些符合經濟學邏輯的解答這些原因，對人們不造成影響那麼究竟發生了什麼事？”於是我們想，或許有兩種力量一方面，我們都有自省的能力都希望對自己感覺良好，所以我們不想作弊另一方面，我們作一點小弊在還能對自己感覺良好的範圍裏所以或許我們心中有一種不能跨越的尺度但我們仍然能從一些小奸小惡中獲利只要不要讓我們自己感到不齒我們說這叫“自我蒙混因素” 但我們該如何測試自我蒙混因素呢？剛開始我們說，我們該怎麼做來降低蒙混因素呢？當人們進入實驗室時，我們說“今日我們要給你兩個任務。”第一，我們問其中一半的人回想十本他們在高中所看過的書或是回憶聖經中的十誡然後我們嘗試讓他們作弊。我們發覺那些嘗試回想十誡的人雖然在我們的標本中沒有任何人能完整背誦出十誡但那些嘗試回想聖經十誡的人面對作弊的可能性，卻沒有作弊那並不代表對宗教信仰比較虔誠的人那些能背誦出較多十誡的人，比較少作弊或那些對宗教信仰比較不虔誠的人那些無法回憶出任何一誡的人比較會作弊在人們嘗試回想十誡的那一刻他們便不作弊了事實上，就算我們讓那些自稱是無神論的人把手放在聖經上發誓，然後再給他們作弊的機會他們也仍然沒有作弊要把聖經十誡帶進教育系統裏是一件困難的事，所以我們說“不然我們讓人們在榮譽行為準則上簽名吧？”於是，我們讓他們簽名，“我認知這份簡短調查遵行麻省理工學院的榮譽準則”然後把它撕碎。沒有任何人作弊這真是非常有趣因為麻省理工學院根本沒有任何榮譽準則（笑聲） 這是有關降低蒙混因素的又如何提高蒙混因素呢？第一個實驗中 我在麻省理工學院遊走我把半打可樂放進不同的冰箱中都是些給大學生的普通冰箱然後再回去測量我們所說的可樂的人生週期 - 它們能在冰箱裏留多久？你可以想像那並沒有多久。人們拿走它們。相對的，我把一個裝著六章一塊錢美金鈔票的盤子放進那些同樣的冰箱沒有任何一張美金被拿走 這大概不是一個好的社會科學實驗為了改善我再做了一次一樣的實驗就像我和諸位形容的一樣三分之一的人把試驗紙交會給我們三分之一的人把紙撕碎他們跟我們說“先生，我解決了幾個問題，給我幾塊錢。”三分之一的人，在他們把紙撕碎以後他們跟我們說“先生，我解決了幾個問題，給我幾個代幣。”我們沒有付他們現金，而是一些其他的代替品他們拿著這些代替品，走到十二英尺遠的旁邊再把代替品換成現金 試著想想以下的假設狀況從公司拿一支鉛筆或是從公司錢櫃裏拿走十分錢哪一種感覺比較差？這些事給人的感覺差異很大把現金移動到稍為遠一點的地方，改拿代幣能不能造成什麼差異？我們實驗物件的作弊情況提高了兩倍稍後我會告訴你這些例子和股市有什麼關聯但這仍然無法解決我對安隆公司的疑問因為在安隆，還有一個社會性的元素人們眼見其他人的作為事實上，每天我們看新聞都能看到人們作弊欺騙的例子這怎麼影響我們？ 所以，我們又做了另一個實驗我們召來一大群學生來參加實驗我們先付他們錢所以每個人都先拿到裝著實驗回饋的信封在結束時，我們請他們把沒有賺到的錢還給我們同樣的事情發生了當我們給人們作弊的機會，他們作弊了他們只作了一點小弊，但都一樣但這次我們請來一位學生演員這個學生演員在三十秒後站起來，說“我解開所有題目了，現在呢？”實驗者則回答”如果你做完所有題目了，就回去吧。“就這樣。任務結束了。所以現在我們有了一個學生 - 一個演員在這組人中沒有人知道他是個演員只知道他明目張膽的作弊這會對在場的其他人有什麼影響？他們會作更多的弊，或是相反？ 事情是這樣發生的。結果是，那取決於他們身上穿的衣服因為我們在卡內基梅隆和匹茲堡大學進行這次實驗在匹茲堡有兩家主要的大學卡內基梅隆和匹茲堡大學而我們的實驗物件都是卡內基梅隆大學的學生當站起來的演員穿著卡內基梅隆的衣服他其實也是個卡內基梅隆的學生也就是說他是團隊中的一員，作弊的情況增加了但當他穿著一件匹茲堡大學的外衣時作弊的情況便減少了 （笑聲） 這是很重要的一點，因為記住在這個學生站起來的那一刻他對在場所有人證明作弊是可行的因為實驗者說”你做完所有題目了，回去吧。“他們就帶著錢回去了所以這和被抓到的幾率無關而是一種作弊的典範如果在我們的團隊中有人作弊，我們也看到他們作弊我們便覺得那是適當的，身為一個團隊，有這一樣的態度但如果是個外人，那些糟糕的人不是說他們做題做的不好而是那些我們不想被當成一丘之貉的人那些其他學校的，其他團體的突然人們的誠實和警覺性都提高了有點類似之前的聖經十誡實驗作弊的情況更加降低了。 所以，我們究竟從這些實驗中學到了什麼？我們知道許多人都會作弊他們作一點點小弊當我們喚起人們的道德感，作弊的情況減少當我們提高和作弊之中的距離像是現金，作弊的情況便提高當我們看到身邊的人作弊尤其是我們的同儕，作弊的情況便提高當我們想到股市的時候想到現在發生的事情當你創造了這個環境你付他們很多的錢扭曲了他們對現實的看法？他們能不這麼看嗎？當然他們會這樣做。當你又做了一些其他的事情像是用一些東西代替現金？你叫他們股票，或是選擇權，衍生商品按揭證券有沒有可能因為這些東西聽來遙遠它不只是一個幾秒外的代幣而是離現金有一段距離的象徵物冠以更長的時間 - 人們是否會更容易作弊？在今日的社會環境中，人們看到他人的行為時又會有什麼影響和反應？這全都是一些很不好的因素和影響在今日的股市中 我想泛泛地談一些有關行為經濟學的事在人生中我們有許多直覺卻有許多是錯誤的問題是，我們該去檢視這些直覺嗎？我們可以思考我們該如何去檢視這些直覺從我們的私生活，我們的公事特別是制定政策的時候當我們想到一些像“一個都不能少”這種教育政策當你開發一些新的股票市場，當你制定一些新的政策稅法，健康保險等檢測直覺是非常困難的這是在我回去和這些護士談話時學到的一個教訓。 我回到當初的醫院告訴他們對於撕開繃帶方法的新發現我學到兩件有趣的事一是我最喜歡的護士，Ettie告訴我我並沒有考慮到她的痛苦她說“當然，那對你來說很痛苦但想想身為護士的我要從一個我喜歡的人身上撕開這些繃帶並且要長期不斷地重複這個動作我也不想為自己帶來這麼大的折磨，那也並不好受。”她說，或許對她來說如此困難是因為這實在非常有趣，因為她說“我不覺得你的直覺是對的我覺得我的直覺才是對的。”所以，當想到我們的那些直覺時要相信自己的直覺是錯誤的是非常困難的。她說，正因為我認為我的直覺是對的她也認為她的直覺是正確的她很難接受這樣去做一個艱難的實驗來證明她是對或錯。 但事實上，這正是我們每日面對的狀況對許多事我們都有很強的直覺我們自己的能力，經濟運作的方式我們應該付給學校老師多少薪水但在我們真正開始去檢測這些直覺前我們都不會有什麼進步只要想想如果那些護士能檢測自己的直覺我的人生會有多大的改善每件事又會有多大的改善如果我們能開始有系統性地測驗我們的直覺 非常謝謝各位。"
