Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_dennett_cute_sexy_sweet_funny	"I’m going around the world giving talks about Darwin, and usually what I’m talking about is Darwin’s strange inversion of reasoning. Now that title, that phrase, comes from a critic, an early critic, and this is a passage that I just love, and would like to read for you. ""In the theory with which we have to deal, Absolute Ignorance is the artificer; so that we may enunciate as the fundamental principle of the whole system, that, in order to make a perfect and beautiful machine, it is not requisite to know how to make it. This proposition will be found on careful examination to express, in condensed form, the essential purport of the Theory, and to express in a few words all Mr. Darwin’s meaning; who, by a strange inversion of reasoning, seems to think Absolute Ignorance fully qualified to take the place of Absolute Wisdom in the achievements of creative skill."" Exactly. Exactly. And it is a strange inversion. A creationist pamphlet has this wonderful page in it: ""Test Two: Do you know of any building that didn’t have a builder? Yes/No. Do you know of any painting that didn’t have a painter? Yes/No. Do you know of any car that didn’t have a maker? Yes/No. If you answered 'Yes' for any of the above, give details."" A-ha! I mean, it really is a strange inversion of reasoning. You would have thought it stands to reason that design requires an intelligent designer. But Darwin shows that it’s just false. Today, though, I’m going to talk about Darwin’s other strange inversion, which is equally puzzling at first, but in some ways just as important. It stands to reason that we love chocolate cake because it is sweet. Guys go for girls like this because they are sexy. We adore babies because they’re so cute. And, of course, we are amused by jokes because they are funny. This is all backwards. It is. And Darwin shows us why. Let’s start with sweet. Our sweet tooth is basically an evolved sugar detector, because sugar is high energy, and it’s just been wired up to the preferer, to put it very crudely, and that’s why we like sugar. Honey is sweet because we like it, not ""we like it because honey is sweet."" There’s nothing intrinsically sweet about honey. If you looked at glucose molecules till you were blind, you wouldn’t see why they tasted sweet. You have to look in our brains to understand why they’re sweet. So if you think first there was sweetness, and then we evolved to like sweetness, you’ve got it backwards; that’s just wrong. It’s the other way round. Sweetness was born with the wiring which evolved. And there’s nothing intrinsically sexy about these young ladies. And it’s a good thing that there isn’t, because if there were, then Mother Nature would have a problem: How on earth do you get chimps to mate? Now you might think, ah, there’s a solution: hallucinations. That would be one way of doing it, but there’s a quicker way. Just wire the chimps up to love that look, and apparently they do. That’s all there is to it. Over six million years, we and the chimps evolved our different ways. We became bald-bodied, oddly enough; for one reason or another, they didn’t. If we hadn’t, then probably this would be the height of sexiness. Our sweet tooth is an evolved and instinctual preference for high-energy food. It wasn’t designed for chocolate cake. Chocolate cake is a supernormal stimulus. The term is owed to Niko Tinbergen, who did his famous experiments with gulls, where he found that that orange spot on the gull’s beak — if he made a bigger, oranger spot the gull chicks would peck at it even harder. It was a hyperstimulus for them, and they loved it. What we see with, say, chocolate cake is it’s a supernormal stimulus to tweak our design wiring. And there are lots of supernormal stimuli; chocolate cake is one. There's lots of supernormal stimuli for sexiness. And there's even supernormal stimuli for cuteness. Here’s a pretty good example. It’s important that we love babies, and that we not be put off by, say, messy diapers. So babies have to attract our affection and our nurturing, and they do. And, by the way, a recent study shows that mothers prefer the smell of the dirty diapers of their own baby. So nature works on many levels here. But now, if babies didn’t look the way they do — if babies looked like this, that’s what we would find adorable, that’s what we would find — we would think, oh my goodness, do I ever want to hug that. This is the strange inversion. Well now, finally what about funny. My answer is, it’s the same story, the same story. This is the hard one, the one that isn’t obvious. That’s why I leave it to the end. And I won’t be able to say too much about it. But you have to think evolutionarily, you have to think, what hard job that has to be done — it’s dirty work, somebody’s got to do it — is so important to give us such a powerful, inbuilt reward for it when we succeed. Now, I think we've found the answer — I and a few of my colleagues. It’s a neural system that’s wired up to reward the brain for doing a grubby clerical job. Our bumper sticker for this view is that this is the joy of debugging. Now I’m not going to have time to spell it all out, but I’ll just say that only some kinds of debugging get the reward. And what we’re doing is we’re using humor as a sort of neuroscientific probe by switching humor on and off, by turning the knob on a joke — now it’s not funny ... oh, now it’s funnier ... now we’ll turn a little bit more ... now it’s not funny — in this way, we can actually learn something about the architecture of the brain, the functional architecture of the brain. Matthew Hurley is the first author of this. We call it the Hurley Model. He’s a computer scientist, Reginald Adams a psychologist, and there I am, and we’re putting this together into a book. Thank you very much."	我在世界各地與大家討論達爾文而最常提及的是他特殊的逆向推理這個詞出自一位早期評論家我把最愛的一段評論分享給各位 「據此理論，『無知』為萬物之始此一基本原則，為系統之基石舉例而言，『要製造一台完美的機器其實並不需要了解製造方法。』達爾文經由縝密思慮得此論點且以錘鍊之字句表明其主旨簡單明瞭地傳達其意其逆向推理獨到之處在於肯定『無知』，視其為難得之物可取代『全知』，輔創新之念於大成」 的確 這個理論確實背離一般常理神造世界論者的傳單上可能會問測驗二有建築不出自建築者之手嗎？有畫作不出自創作者之手嗎？有車子不出自製造者之手嗎？如果你都回答「有」，請舉例詳細說明 哈！這就是我所謂違常的逆向推理你可能一向認為每個設計都需要厲害的設計師達爾文卻認為這樣才不合理 不過今天解釋的是其他逆向推理乍聽時一樣難懂，不過同等重要我們喜歡蛋糕，因為它是甜的男人都愛辣妹，因為她們性感我們喜歡嬰兒，因為他們很可愛還有，笑話引人發噱是因為好笑 達爾文解釋 這些推論都倒果為因喜愛甜食是因為人對糖分很敏感我們需要糖的高能量 因此人腦才將糖設定為我們喜歡的物質蜂蜜會甜是因為我們喜歡蜂蜜蜂蜜在本質上沒有甜的成分即使你死盯著葡萄糖的分子結構你還是不知道為什麼它是甜的原因其實就藏在我們的大腦裡如果你先假定，甜食中有甜的成分我們的大腦演化成喜歡這種成分那就錯了 應該要倒過來才對甜味是隨著大腦的演化而誕生 這些女生其實跟性感毫無關係幸好沒有，因為如果有的話自然界會有大麻煩黑猩猩怎麼願意跟伴侶交配呢？你可能說 解決之道是：幻想這是一個方法；但還有一個更快的就是改變黑猩猩的腦迴路讓牠們喜歡那種長相的伴侶奧秘說穿了就是這樣演化至今，人跟黑猩猩已大不相同我們全身的毛髮退化但出於某些原因 牠們的卻沒有若我們也沒有，那或許這才是性感 我們喜歡甜食，是因為它的高能量跟巧克力蛋糕本身無關巧克力蛋糕是種超乎尋常的刺激諾貝爾生物學獎得主丁柏格做過一個有名的海鷗實驗他發現海鷗嘴上那個橘色的點如果變大一點或顏色更鮮豔一點小海鷗啄食它時會更用力它對小海鷗而言是個強烈的刺激實驗的意義是 超乎尋常的刺激像是巧克力蛋糕 會改變天性還有很多東西是超乎尋常的刺激有些會引發性感的感覺 有些會引發可愛的感覺 舉個例子嬰兒必須討喜，所以即使弄髒尿布我們也不會因為這樣就不愛他們順道一提，最近一個研究指出媽媽喜歡聞自己寶寶的髒尿布看來大自然的影響無處不及呢但是如果嬰兒現在是長成這樣我們就會覺得這是可愛的你可能會想「天啊！我才不要抱他」這就是逆向推裡 最後 好笑的感覺 其實原理一樣不過難解釋、也不明顯，所以放最後而且我所知有限，能說的也不多但從進化的角度思考，什麼該先做打樁的工作一定最難 但非做不可因為一旦成功 貢獻是超乎想像的現在，我與幾個同事已經有了答案腦部的神經系統已經預設完成麻煩工作後應給予自己獎勵我們對於這種反應的標準解釋是這是解決麻煩的快樂我在這裡只簡單說明一下只有解決某些問題會覺得快樂我們把幽默感當成神經探測針用來衡量一個笑話好不好笑現在不好笑....噢！現在好笑多了！如果轉回來一點...現在又不好笑了透過這樣的解釋比較容易理解大腦的構造就是能讓大腦發揮功用的構造 赫利貢獻最大，研究成果以他命名另外還有心理學家亞當斯和我我們正在整理研究成果準備出版謝謝大家！
