Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_gilbert_asks_why_are_we_happy	"When you have 21 minutes to speak, two million years seems like a really long time. But evolutionarily, two million years is nothing. And yet in two million years, the human brain has nearly tripled in mass, going from the one-and-a-quarter pound brain of our ancestor here, Habilis, to the almost three-pound meatloaf that everybody here has between their ears. What is it about a big brain that nature was so eager for every one of us to have one? Well, it turns out when brains triple in size, they don't just get three times bigger; they gain new structures. And one of the main reasons our brain got so big is because it got a new part, called the ""frontal lobe."" Particularly, a part called the ""pre-frontal cortex."" What does a pre-frontal cortex do for you that should justify the entire architectural overhaul of the human skull in the blink of evolutionary time? It turns out the pre-frontal cortex does lots of things, but one of the most important things it does is an experience simulator. Pilots practice in flight simulators so that they don't make real mistakes in planes. Human beings have this marvelous adaptation that they can actually have experiences in their heads before they try them out in real life. This is a trick that none of our ancestors could do, and that no other animal can do quite like we can. It's a marvelous adaptation. It's up there with opposable thumbs and standing upright and language as one of the things that got our species out of the trees and into the shopping mall. (Laughter) All of you have done this. Ben and Jerry's doesn't have liver-and-onion ice cream, and it's not because they whipped some up, tried it and went, ""Yuck."" It's because, without leaving your armchair, you can simulate that flavor and say ""yuck"" before you make it. Let's see how your experience simulators are working. Let's just run a quick diagnostic before I proceed with the rest of the talk. Here's two different futures that I invite you to contemplate. You can try to simulate them and tell me which one you think you might prefer. One of them is winning the lottery. This is about 314 million dollars. And the other is becoming paraplegic. (Laughter) Just give it a moment of thought. You probably don't feel like you need a moment of thought. Interestingly, there are data on these two groups of people, data on how happy they are. And this is exactly what you expected, isn't it? But these aren't the data. I made these up! These are the data. You failed the pop quiz, and you're hardly five minutes into the lecture. Because the fact is that a year after losing the use of their legs, and a year after winning the lotto, lottery winners and paraplegics are equally happy with their lives. Don't feel too bad about failing the first pop quiz, because everybody fails all of the pop quizzes all of the time. The research that my laboratory has been doing, that economists and psychologists around the country have been doing, has revealed something really quite startling to us, something we call the ""impact bias,"" which is the tendency for the simulator to work badly. For the simulator to make you believe that different outcomes are more different than in fact they really are. From field studies to laboratory studies, we see that winning or losing an election, gaining or losing a romantic partner, getting or not getting a promotion, passing or not passing a college test, on and on, have far less impact, less intensity and much less duration than people expect them to have. This almost floors me — a recent study showing how major life traumas affect people suggests that if it happened over three months ago, with only a few exceptions, it has no impact whatsoever on your happiness. Why? Because happiness can be synthesized. Sir Thomas Brown wrote in 1642, ""I am the happiest man alive. I have that in me that can convert poverty to riches, adversity to prosperity. I am more invulnerable than Achilles; fortune hath not one place to hit me."" What kind of remarkable machinery does this guy have in his head? Well, it turns out it's precisely the same remarkable machinery that all off us have. Human beings have something that we might think of as a ""psychological immune system."" A system of cognitive processes, largely non-conscious cognitive processes, that help them change their views of the world, so that they can feel better about the worlds in which they find themselves. Like Sir Thomas, you have this machine. Unlike Sir Thomas, you seem not to know it. We synthesize happiness, but we think happiness is a thing to be found. Now, you don't need me to give you too many examples of people synthesizing happiness, I suspect. Though I'm going to show you some experimental evidence, you don't have to look very far for evidence. I took a copy of the New York Times and tried to find some instances of people synthesizing happiness. Here are three guys synthesizing happiness. ""I'm better off physically, financially, mentally ... ""I don't have one minute's regret. It was a glorious experience."" ""I believe it turned out for the best."" Who are these characters who are so damn happy? The first one is Jim Wright. Some of you are old enough to remember: he was the chairman of the House of Representatives and he resigned in disgrace when this young Republican named Newt Gingrich found out about a shady book deal he had done. He lost everything. The most powerful Democrat in the country lost everything. He lost his money, he lost his power. What does he have to say all these years later? ""I am so much better off physically, financially, mentally and in almost every other way."" What other way would there be to be better off? Vegetably? Minerally? Animally? He's pretty much covered them there. Moreese Bickham is somebody you've never heard of. Moreese Bickham uttered these words upon being released. He was 78 years old. He'd spent 37 years in a Louisiana State Penitentiary for a crime he didn't commit. [He was ultimately released for good behavior halfway through his sentence.] What did he say about his experience? ""I don't have one minute's regret. It was a glorious experience."" Glorious! He is not saying, ""Well, there were some nice guys. They had a gym."" ""Glorious,"" a word we usually reserve for something like a religious experience. Harry S. Langerman uttered these words, and he's somebody you might have known but didn't, because in 1949 he read a little article in the paper about a hamburger stand owned by two brothers named McDonalds. And he thought, ""That's a really neat idea!"" So he went to find them. They said, ""We can give you a franchise on this for 3,000 bucks."" Harry went back to New York, asked his brother, an investment banker, to loan him the $3,000, and his brother's immortal words were, ""You idiot, nobody eats hamburgers."" He wouldn't lend him the money, and of course, six months later Ray Kroc had exactly the same idea. It turns out people do eat hamburgers, and Ray Kroc, for a while, became the richest man in America. And then, finally, some of you recognize this young photo of Pete Best, who was the original drummer for the Beatles, until they, you know, sent him out on an errand and snuck away and picked up Ringo on a tour. Well, in 1994, when Pete Best was interviewed — yes, he's still a drummer; yes, he's a studio musician — he had this to say: ""I'm happier than I would have been with the Beatles."" Okay. There's something important to be learned from these people, and it is the secret of happiness. Here it is, finally to be revealed. First: accrue wealth, power, and prestige, then lose it. (Laughter) Second: spend as much of your life in prison as you possibly can. (Laughter) Third: make somebody else really, really rich. And finally: never ever join the Beatles. (Laughter) Yeah, right. Because when people synthesize happiness, as these gentlemen seem to have done, we all smile at them, but we kind of roll our eyes and say, ""Yeah right, you never really wanted the job."" ""Oh yeah, right. You really didn't have that much in common with her, and you figured that out just about the time she threw the engagement ring in your face."" We smirk because we believe that synthetic happiness is not of the same quality as what we might call ""natural happiness."" What are these terms? Natural happiness is what we get when we get what we wanted, and synthetic happiness is what we make when we don't get what we wanted. And in our society, we have a strong belief that synthetic happiness is of an inferior kind. Why do we have that belief? Well, it's very simple. What kind of economic engine would keep churning if we believed that not getting what we want could make us just as happy as getting it? With all apologies to my friend Matthieu Ricard, a shopping mall full of Zen monks is not going to be particularly profitable, because they don't want stuff enough. (Laughter) I want to suggest to you that synthetic happiness is every bit as real and enduring as the kind of happiness you stumble upon when you get exactly what you were aiming for. I'm a scientist, so I'm going to do this not with rhetoric, but by marinating you in a little bit of data. Let me first show you an experimental paradigm that is used to demonstrate the synthesis of happiness among regular old folks. And this isn't mine. It's a 50-year-old paradigm called the ""free choice paradigm."" It's very simple. You bring in, say, six objects, and you ask a subject to rank them from the most to the least liked. In this case, because this experiment uses them, these are Monet prints. So, everybody can rank these Monet prints from the one they like the most, to the one they like the least. Now we give you a choice: ""We happen to have some extra prints in the closet. We're going to give you one as your prize to take home. We happen to have number three and number four,"" we tell the subject. This is a bit of a difficult choice, because neither one is preferred strongly to the other, but naturally, people tend to pick number three because they liked it a little better than number four. Sometime later — it could be 15 minutes; it could be 15 days — the same stimuli are put before the subject, and the subject is asked to re-rank the stimuli. ""Tell us how much you like them now."" What happens? Watch as happiness is synthesized. This is the result that has been replicated over and over again. You're watching happiness be synthesized. Would you like to see it again? Happiness! ""The one I got is really better than I thought! That other one I didn't get sucks!"" That's the synthesis of happiness. (Laughter) Now, what's the right response to that? ""Yeah, right!"" Now, here's the experiment we did, and I hope this is going to convince you that ""Yeah, right!"" was not the right response. We did this experiment with a group of patients who had anterograde amnesia. These are hospitalized patients. Most of them have Korsakoff's syndrome, a polyneuritic psychosis. They drank way too much, and they can't make new memories. OK? They remember their childhood, but if you walk in and introduce yourself, and then leave the room, when you come back, they don't know who you are. We took our Monet prints to the hospital. And we asked these patients to rank them from the one they liked the most to the one they liked the least. We then gave them the choice between number three and number four. Like everybody else, they said, ""Gee, thanks Doc! That's great! I could use a new print. I'll take number three."" We explained we would have number three mailed to them. We gathered up our materials and we went out of the room, and counted to a half hour. (Laughter) Back into the room, we say, ""Hi, we're back."" The patients, bless them, say, ""Ah, Doc, I'm sorry, I've got a memory problem; that's why I'm here. If I've met you before, I don't remember."" ""Really, you don't remember? I was just here with the Monet prints?"" ""Sorry, Doc, I just don't have a clue."" ""No problem, Jim. All I want you to do is rank these for me from the one you like the most to the one you like the least."" What do they do? Well, let's first check and make sure they're really amnesiac. We ask these amnesiac patients to tell us which one they own, which one they chose last time, which one is theirs. And what we find is amnesiac patients just guess. These are normal controls, where if I did this with you, all of you would know which print you chose. But if I do this with amnesiac patients, they don't have a clue. They can't pick their print out of a lineup. Here's what normal controls do: they synthesize happiness. Right? This is the change in liking score, the change from the first time they ranked to the second time they ranked. Normal controls show — that was the magic I showed you; now I'm showing it to you in graphical form — ""The one I own is better than I thought. The one I didn't own, the one I left behind, is not as good as I thought."" Amnesiacs do exactly the same thing. Think about this result. These people like better the one they own, but they don't know they own it. ""Yeah, right"" is not the right response! What these people did when they synthesized happiness is they really, truly changed their affective, hedonic, aesthetic reactions to that poster. They're not just saying it because they own it, because they don't know they own it. When psychologists show you bars, you know that they are showing you averages of lots of people. And yet, all of us have this psychological immune system, this capacity to synthesize happiness, but some of us do this trick better than others. And some situations allow anybody to do it more effectively than other situations do. It turns out that freedom, the ability to make up your mind and change your mind, is the friend of natural happiness, because it allows you to choose among all those delicious futures and find the one that you would most enjoy. But freedom to choose, to change and make up your mind, is the enemy of synthetic happiness. And I'm going to show you why. Dilbert already knows, of course. ""Dogbert's tech support. How may I abuse you?"" ""My printer prints a blank page after every document."" ""Why complain about getting free paper?"" ""Free? Aren't you just giving me my own paper?"" ""Look at the quality of the free paper compared to your lousy regular paper! Only a fool or a liar would say that they look the same!"" ""Now that you mention it, it does seem a little silkier!"" ""What are you doing?"" ""I'm helping people accept the things they cannot change."" Indeed. The psychological immune system works best when we are totally stuck, when we are trapped. This is the difference between dating and marriage. You go out on a date with a guy, and he picks his nose; you don't go out on another date. You're married to a guy and he picks his nose? He has a heart of gold. Don't touch the fruitcake! You find a way to be happy with what's happened. (Laughter) Now, what I want to show you is that people don't know this about themselves, and not knowing this can work to our supreme disadvantage. Here's an experiment we did at Harvard. We created a black-and-white photography course, and we allowed students to come in and learn how to use a darkroom. So we gave them cameras; they went around campus; they took 12 pictures of their favorite professors and their dorm room and their dog, and all the other things they wanted to have Harvard memories of. They bring us the camera; we make up a contact sheet; they figure out which are the two best pictures; and we now spend six hours teaching them about darkrooms. And they blow two of them up, and they have two gorgeous eight-by-10 glossies of meaningful things to them, and we say, ""Which one would you like to give up?"" ""I have to give one up?"" ""Yes, we need one as evidence of the class project. So you have to give me one. You have to make a choice. You get to keep one, and I get to keep one."" Now, there are two conditions in this experiment. In one case, the students are told, ""But you know, if you want to change your mind, I'll always have the other one here, and in the next four days, before I actually mail it to headquarters"" — Yeah, ""headquarters"" — ""I'll be glad to swap it out with you. In fact, I'll come to your dorm room, just give me an email. Better yet, I'll check with you. You ever want to change your mind, it's totally returnable."" The other half of the students are told exactly the opposite: ""Make your choice, and by the way, the mail is going out, gosh, in two minutes, to England. Your picture will be winging its way over the Atlantic. You will never see it again."" Half of the students in each of these conditions are asked to make predictions about how much they're going to come to like the picture that they keep and the picture they leave behind. Other students are just sent back to their little dorm rooms and they are measured over the next three to six days on their liking, satisfaction with the pictures. And look at what we find. First of all, here's what students think is going to happen. They think they're going to maybe come to like the picture they chose a little more than the one they left behind, but these are not statistically significant differences. It's a very small increase, and it doesn't much matter whether they were in the reversible or irreversible condition. Wrong-o. Bad simulators. Because here's what's really happening. Both right before the swap and five days later, people who are stuck with that picture, who have no choice, who can never change their mind, like it a lot! And people who are deliberating — ""Should I return it? Have I gotten the right one? Maybe this isn't the good one? Maybe I left the good one?"" — have killed themselves. They don't like their picture, and in fact even after the opportunity to swap has expired, they still don't like their picture. Why? Because the [reversible] condition is not conducive to the synthesis of happiness. So here's the final piece of this experiment. We bring in a whole new group of naive Harvard students and we say, ""You know, we're doing a photography course, and we can do it one of two ways. We could do it so that when you take the two pictures, you'd have four days to change your mind, or we're doing another course where you take the two pictures and you make up your mind right away and you can never change it. Which course would you like to be in?"" Duh! 66 percent of the students, two-thirds, prefer to be in the course where they have the opportunity to change their mind. Hello? 66 percent of the students choose to be in the course in which they will ultimately be deeply dissatisfied with the picture. Because they do not know the conditions under which synthetic happiness grows. The Bard said everything best, of course, and he's making my point here but he's making it hyperbolically: ""'Tis nothing good or bad / But thinking makes it so."" It's nice poetry, but that can't exactly be right. Is there really nothing good or bad? Is it really the case that gall bladder surgery and a trip to Paris are just the same thing? (Laughter) That seems like a one-question IQ test. They can't be exactly the same. In more turgid prose, but closer to the truth, was the father of modern capitalism, Adam Smith, and he said this. This is worth contemplating: ""The great source of both the misery and disorders of human life seems to arise from overrating the difference between one permanent situation and another — Some of these situations may, no doubt, deserve to be preferred to others, but none of them can deserve to be pursued with that passionate ardor which drives us to violate the rules either of prudence or of justice, or to corrupt the future tranquility of our minds, either by shame from the remembrance of our own folly, or by remorse for the horror of our own injustice."" In other words: yes, some things are better than others. We should have preferences that lead us into one future over another. But when those preferences drive us too hard and too fast because we have overrated the difference between these futures, we are at risk. When our ambition is bounded, it leads us to work joyfully. When our ambition is unbounded, it leads us to lie, to cheat, to steal, to hurt others, to sacrifice things of real value. When our fears are bounded, we're prudent, we're cautious, we're thoughtful. When our fears are unbounded and overblown, we're reckless, and we're cowardly. The lesson I want to leave you with, from these data, is that our longings and our worries are both to some degree overblown, because we have within us the capacity to manufacture the very commodity we are constantly chasing when we choose experience. Thank you. (Applause)"	"當你有21分鐘發言時間，相比之下二百萬年似乎是很長一段時間但就進化論而言，二百萬年是很短的然而，二百萬年的時間，人腦的體積增長了將近3倍從直立猿人(我們的祖先)的 1.25磅腦袋，到現在我們每個人兩耳中間的近3磅重的肉餅大腦究竟有什麼特質，讓我們每個人都需要有一個呢？ 哦，原來人腦體積增加了近3倍後不單只增大了，它們還配備新的結構它們變得那麼大的主因之一，是因為新增了一個部分稱為「額葉」，尤其是稱為「前額葉皮質」的部分究竟前額葉皮質有什麼功能可以在進化過程中，一瞬間重整全部頭骨的結構？ 哦，原來，前額葉皮質能做很多功能，但其中一個最重要的功能是作為一個經驗模擬器飛機駕駛員利用飛行模擬器練習以減低在真正駕駛時的出錯率人類有這種非凡的能力可以先在腦中創造模擬經驗然後在現實生活中嘗試實行我們的祖先無法這麼做也沒有其他動物能做到，這是一種非凡的適應能力非凡程度可以比美相對的十指、雙腳的站立、語言這些能力讓我們從住在森林中進化到能進入購物商場 現在— 在座每個人都做過我的意思是Ben & Jerry’s冰淇淋店沒有賣肝臟加洋蔥口味不是因為他們試吃過了才發現很難吃而是因為，只要坐在那就能模擬那味道，光想就知道很難吃 來看看我們的經驗模擬器是怎樣運作在我繼續演講前，先很快的問大家個問題請你們想一下這兩個不同的未來試著模擬這兩個未來，然後告訴我你比較喜歡哪個第一個是中彩卷，約三億一千四百萬美金另外個是下半身癱瘓讓大家考慮一下你可能覺得這根本不用考慮 有趣的是，我們有這兩組人的數據他們有多快樂的數據你們預期的像這樣，對嗎？但這些不是真的數據，是我作出來的！ 這些才是真正的數據。演講還不到5分鐘，你們小考就不及格了因為實際上，下半身癱瘓之後一年，和中了彩卷之後一年，贏彩卷和癱瘓的人都同樣地滿意他們的生活 現在，請不要為第一次小考不及格感到丟臉小考不合格的情況是很常發生的事根據我的實驗室所做的研究全國各地的經濟學家和心理學家也在做的研究得出一些令人吃驚的結論我們稱之為 預測的偏差這是指模擬器出錯的狀況這模擬器預測不同未來的差異比實際的差異還大 從實地研究到實驗室研究我們都看到，選舉勝出或落敗、獲得或失去一個伴侶有沒有得到升遷、有沒有通過大學入學考等等產生的影響，比預期中較輕、較弱、及時間較短不同人們所想像的事實上，令我完全屈服的是最近一項研究，關於人生重大創傷造成的影響顯示，創傷發生超過3個月之後只有少數例外否則它對你的人生幸福並沒有任何影響 為什麼？因為快樂是可以合成的托馬斯．布朗爵士在1642年寫道: 「我是活著中最幸福的人」「我擁有的潛能可以把貧困轉換為財富，逆境轉換為繁榮」「我比阿基里斯更加刀槍不入；命運找不到一處能打擊我的地方。」這傢伙的腦子裡有什麼非凡的機器嗎？ 原來，這非凡的機器我們每個人都有人類有種東西可視為是精神免疫的系統認知程序的系統，大量不自覺的認知程序能幫助他們改變自己的世界觀能使他們對自己的生活，產生更好的感受和托馬斯爵士一樣，你們也有這機器和托馬斯爵士不一樣的是，你們並不知道這點 我們能合成快樂，但我們認為快樂是尋找來的現在，你們並不需要我給太多合成快樂的例子但是我要給你們一些實驗例子一些很容易找到的證據 算是給我自己的挑戰，因為我偶爾在演講時會講我用一份紐約時報想試圖找出一些合成快樂的例子這裡有三個人合成快樂「我在多方面也比以前好多了，身體上、經濟上、感情上、精神上、幾乎所有的方面 」、「我沒有一點的遺憾，這是一個光榮的歷程」、「最後的結果是最好的」 這些快樂的人究竟是誰呢？第一位是吉姆．賴特有些人年紀較大可能記得，他當過美國眾議院主席因為被一位年輕的共和黨員紐特．金奇揭發受賄醜聞而黯然辭職他失去了一切，曾是全國擁有最大權力的民主黨員他失去了一切他失去了他的金錢、他的權力那麼他在多年後說了什麼？「我好多了，不管是身體上、經濟上、感情上、精神上、幾乎所有的方面 」還有什麼方面能變得更好？植物上？礦物上？動物上？他差不多都說完啦 你們應該沒有聽說這位慕仁．碧咸慕仁．碧咸被釋放時說出這些話他那時78歲，他被關了37年，在路易斯安那州監獄，因一宗他沒有犯的罪[最終他因為獄中行為良好而在刑期的一半中假釋出獄]那他被釋放時說了什麼？「我沒有一點的遺憾，這是一個光榮的歷程。」光榮的！這傢伙不是說：「嗯，獄中有一些人還不錯的，又有健身房。」他說「光榮」這個字通常只用來形容宗教體驗之類的吧 哈利．蘭格曼說出以下這些話，你們可能原本會認識他但最後沒有，因為在1949年，他讀了一篇文章關於兩個姓麥當勞的兄弟所擁有的一個漢堡攤他想︰「這是一個非常好的主意！」於是，他找到那兩兄弟。他們說︰「3000美元，我們就給你經營權」哈利回到紐約，請他那個做投資銀行家的兄弟讓他貸款3000美元那兄弟的不朽話語是︰「你這白痴，沒有人吃漢堡的」他沒有借給他錢，當然，半年後一位雷‧克羅也有相同的想法原來很多人喜歡吃漢堡有段時間，雷‧克羅成了美國最富有的人 最後，最精彩的這個有一些人可能認得這位彼得‧貝斯特年輕時的照片他原是披頭四的鼓手直到他們打發了他找了林哥一起巡迴好了，當彼得在1994年接受採訪時是，他仍是個鼓手；是，他是個錄音室音樂家他曾這樣說：「我現在比我在披頭四時更快樂」 好吧。我們可以從這些人身上學到些很重要的東西就是快樂的秘訣現在，要揭露了第一：累積財富、權力和威望然後失去它們第二：能被關多久就被關多久第三：讓別人變得非常非常富有最後：永遠不要加入披頭四 現在，像澤‧法蘭克一樣，我可以預測你們在想什麼就是「對啦，最好是」因為當人合成快樂時，像這些人的例子我們臉上掛著微笑，但其實都翻著白眼想︰「是嗎？你從來沒有想過要那份工作？」「是嗎？你和她」確實沒有什麼共同點而你就在她把訂婚戒指扔向你的時候才發現這個事實」 我們偷笑，是因為我們認為合成快樂次於自然快樂這是什麼術語？自然快樂，是我們得到心理所想要的東西那種快樂合成快樂，是我們得不到想要的東西時，改變想法的快樂在我們的社會，我們堅信合成快樂是比較差的一種為什麼我們這樣想？很簡單，我們的經濟發展會變成怎樣如果我們相信，得不到想要的東西和得到想要的東西都能同樣地快樂？ 先向我的朋友馬修‧瑞卡道歉一個只有僧侶光顧的購物中心是很難取得高利潤因他們的購買慾不夠強我想告訴各位，合成快樂的真實性和持久性其實和那種當你達到目標所得到的快樂一樣程度我是一個科學家，所以我不只是空談我會用一些數據來感化你們 首先，這個典型的實驗範例用來說明合成的快樂這是較早之前的，不是我的範例差不多50年前的，稱為自由選擇模式這很簡單你有6件物件請你的實驗對象用自己對物件的好感程度排名在這實驗中的研究員使用了莫內的畫每個人都以喜好來排這些莫內的印刷畫由最喜歡到最不喜歡現在，我們告訴你：「我們有些多餘的印刷畫放在櫃子裡」「我們送你一張作為獎品」「我們正好有3號和4號」就這樣告訴他們，這是個有點困難的抉擇因為兩張沒有太大的喜好差異但自然地，他們傾向選擇3號因為比4號還更喜歡一點 之後，可能是15分鐘後，也可能是15天後實驗對象會再看同一組物件請他們重新排列好感程度「請告訴我們，你有多喜歡它們」會發生什麼事呢？請看快樂被合成重做實驗也得出這結果你們正在看快樂被合成你們想再看一次嗎？快樂！「我擁有的那件物件真的比我想像中好！「我沒有選擇的那件物件真爛！」這正是合成的快樂 好了，正確的反應怎樣的？「噢，真的嗎？」這個是我們做的實驗希望這個實驗能說服你們「對啦，最好是」不是正確的反應 我們以病人為實驗對象來重做以上的實驗，是患有順行性遺忘症的病人，長期住院的患者他們多數患有科爾薩科夫氏症候群一種複合性神經炎 - 他們酒喝太多無法製造新的回憶懂嗎？他們還記得童年，但如果你向他們自我介紹然後離開房間當你再回去時，他們已經忘記你是誰 我們把莫內的印刷畫帶到醫院要這些病人排名從最喜歡到最不喜歡然後，要他們選3號或4號作為禮物和其他人一樣，他們說：「哎呀，多謝醫生！太棒了！我正好要張新的畫我要3號」我們告訴他們會郵寄3號那張過去我們整理好東西就離開了房間然後等了半小時之後回到房間，我們說︰「嗨，我們回來了」那些病人，真的要保佑他們，說：「啊，對不起醫生我有記憶問題，正是我住院的原因如果我之前遇見你，我已經忘了」「真的嗎，吉姆，你不記得？我剛剛才拿了莫內的印刷畫過來」「對不起醫生，我真的不知道」「沒關係，吉姆，我只想請你幫我把這些印刷畫從最喜歡到最不喜歡作排名」 他們會做什麼？好，讓我們先測試一下他們是不是真的忘記了，所以要求請他們指出自己擁有的那一張就是他們之前選的那張，送他們的那張我們發現失憶症患者只是用猜的這是標準的對照組，如果我要你們答這問題你們每一位都能指出那張是屬於你的如果我要失憶症患者答這個問題他們真的不知道，無法選出屬於他們的那張印刷畫 以下是標準的對照組會做的事：他們會合成快樂對不對？這是喜好評分的改變這是從他們第一次排列和第二次排列之間的變化標準的對照組顯示- 這是我之前展示給你們的魔術，現在我以圖表形式展示給你們 -「我擁有的那件比我想像中好，我沒有的那件我放棄的那件，真的不如我想像中好」失憶症患者做同樣的事情，請細想這個實驗結果 這些人更喜歡他們自己擁有那張但他們不知道自己擁有它「對啦，最好是」並不是正確的反應！當他們合成快樂時他們真正改變了對那張印刷畫感情上的、快樂的、審美的反應他們不只是因為自己擁有它因為他們根本不知道 現在，當心理學家展示長條圖你們要知道，是顯示很多人的平均數然而，我們每個人都有這個心理免疫系統這種合成快樂的能力但有些人在這方面的能力比別人好在某些情況下會比其他情況更容許人有效地發揮這能力原來自由- 即決定和改變思想的能力 -是""自然快樂""的朋友，因為它讓你選擇一個最完美的未來和找到你最喜歡的那個但，有選擇的自由- 改變思想和決定的能力 - 是""合成快樂""的敵人我會告訴你為什麼 代伯特當然已經知道這一點我一邊念你們跟著看這則漫畫「狗伯特技術中心，我能虐待你什麼嗎？」「我的印表機每次印完，就會跑出一張白紙」「為什麼你會抱怨收到免費的紙？」「免費？那白紙是我自己的阿」「哎呀，大哥！請把這張紙和你的普通廉價紙的質感比較一下！只有傻瓜或說謊的人，才會說它們是相同的！」「啊！你這樣一說，真的看來好像比較光滑！」「你在做什麼？」「我幫助人們接受他們不能改變的事情」，正是如此 我們的心理免疫系統在我們不能改變的情況下能達到最佳成效這就像約會和婚姻的分別，對不對？我的意思是，妳與一個男人約會，他挖鼻孔，你可選擇不再與他約會假如妳是妳丈夫挖鼻孔呢？是啊，他心腸很好但不准碰水果蛋糕，對吧？你找到一個能對現況感到快樂的方法現在我要告訴你們人們並不知道這一點不知道這一點對我們很不利 以下是個我們在哈佛大學做的實驗我們開了一門黑白攝影課程讓學生們學習如何使用暗房我們給他們相機，他們在校園內拍攝12張有關自己喜歡的教授、宿舍、狗等等的圖片一些他們希望想要留念的哈佛回憶然後我們做成一張相片的縮圖表讓他們選出最好的兩張照片接著我們花6個小時教他們暗房的運作他們把那兩張照片放大成為極美的8 × 10，有光澤的又對他們有意義的照片，接著我們說︰「你想放棄哪一張？」他們問︰「我需要放棄一張嗎？」「噢，是的。我們需要其中一張作為課程的證據所以你必須給我一張，你必須作出抉擇你得一張，我得一張 此實驗有兩個情況情況一，我們告訴學生︰「你要知道，如果你改變了主意，我還會有另一張在這裡在我寄到總部之前，還有4天考慮我會很樂意…」 -(群眾笑聲) - 是，我說""總部""「我很樂意讓你換回去，不如這樣我會送到你的宿舍你只要寫封電郵給我，或更好的方法，我主動先問你你隨時改變了主意，我們隨時能交換照片另一半的學生情形相反「請你作出一個決定，而且我們差不多在兩分鐘後就要去英格蘭你的照片將飛越大西洋你將再也看不到它了」現在，我們請兩種情況中各一半的學生預測他們對於選了的和放棄的兩張照片會發展怎樣的喜歡程度另一半的學生們被送回他們的宿舍測量他們在之後的3至6天對照片的喜歡程度和滿意程度看看我們發現什麼 首先，這是學生們認為會發生的情況他們認為會喜歡他們選了的照片多過他們放棄的那張照片但差異並不大只有小小的增加，無論這是可退換或不可退換的情況沒有影響他們 錯了喔，模擬器笨蛋，因為這才是真正發生的事交換前和交換五天後那些不能更換的人沒有選擇餘地的人無法改變主意的人，變得很喜歡他們選的照片！那些還在考慮 - 「我應該換回另一張照片嗎？也許我擁有這一張照片並不是好的那張？也許我沒選的那張照片才是好的？」煩死自己了他們不喜歡他們的照片，而且選擇期限過後他們仍然不喜歡他們的照片，為什麼？因為一個可轉變的情況是不利於快樂的合成 好，這是實驗的最後一個部分我們邀請了全新一群天真的哈佛學生告訴他們︰「我們開設了一個攝影課程，有以下兩種班級讓你們各拍兩張照片你們有4天的時間去改變主意或另一種，讓你們各拍兩張照片要你們立即選一張且不能改變主意，你們希望上哪一班？」噢！百分之66的學生，三分之二寧願選有機會改變主意的那班哈囉？百分之66的學生想要那種最終將會令他們深感不滿的選擇因為他們不知道合成快樂能在什麼情況下發生 莎士比亞說的最好，他在表達出我的觀點雖然有點誇張「事情並無好壞 / 是我們的思維使之如此」這是很好的詩句，但不完全準確真的沒什麼好壞的事嗎？膽囊手術和巴黎度假是一樣嗎？比較像是在考你 IQ吧它們不完全一樣 以較無聊但較貼近事實的散文來說現代資本主義之父，亞當斯密曾說非常值得思考「人的生命中所受的痛苦和不幸似乎都源於錯估了兩種不能改變的情況會產生的差異有一些情況，毫無疑問地，應該令人較喜歡但沒有一種情況值得一個人因要熱情地追求它，而違反謹慎或正義的原則，或令我們安寧的心神腐壞無論是因為記起我們的愚蠢行為而感到恥辱或因我們不公正的恐怖行為而痛悔」換句話說：是，有些東西比其他的好 我們應該用自己的喜好去選擇一個未來但當這些喜好，驅使我們過度強硬和過急因為我們錯估了兩種未來的差別時我們便處於危險中當我們的野心受限，我們能高興地工作當我們的野心沒有限制，我們會說謊言、欺騙、偷竊、傷害他人犧牲掉真正價值的東西。當我們的恐懼受限我們會變得慎重、謹慎、深思熟慮當我們的恐懼沒有限制我們會變得魯莽、怯懦 我希望在這演講中，你們能學到的是我們太過於放大我們的渴望和憂慮了其實我們已經有能力去生產出那個當我們做選擇時，不斷追求的東西 謝謝"
