Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_pallotta_the_way_we_think_about_charity_is_dead_wrong	"I want to talk about social innovation and social entrepreneurship. I happen to have triplets. They're little. They're five years old. Sometimes I tell people I have triplets. They say, ""Really? How many?"" (Laughter) Here's a picture of the kids — that's Sage, and Annalisa and Rider. Now, I also happen to be gay. Being gay and fathering triplets is by far the most socially innovative, socially entrepreneurial thing I have ever done. (Laughter) (Applause) The real social innovation I want to talk about involves charity. I want to talk about how the things we've been taught to think about giving and about charity and about the nonprofit sector, are actually undermining the causes we love, and our profound yearning to change the world. But before I do that, I want to ask if we even believe that the nonprofit sector has any serious role to play in changing the world. A lot of people say now that business will lift up the developing economies, and social business will take care of the rest. And I do believe that business will move the great mass of humanity forward. But it always leaves behind that 10 percent or more that is most disadvantaged or unlucky. And social business needs markets, and there are some issues for which you just can't develop the kind of money measures that you need for a market. I sit on the board of a center for the developmentally disabled, and these people want laughter and compassion and they want love. How do you monetize that? And that's where the nonprofit sector and philanthropy come in. Philanthropy is the market for love. It is the market for all those people for whom there is no other market coming. And so if we really want, like Buckminster Fuller said, a world that works for everyone, with no one and nothing left out, then the nonprofit sector has to be a serious part of the conversation. But it doesn't seem to be working. Why have our breast cancer charities not come close to finding a cure for breast cancer, or our homeless charities not come close to ending homelessness in any major city? Why has poverty remained stuck at 12 percent of the U.S. population for 40 years? And the answer is, these social problems are massive in scale, our organizations are tiny up against them, and we have a belief system that keeps them tiny. We have two rulebooks. We have one for the nonprofit sector, and one for the rest of the economic world. It's an apartheid, and it discriminates against the nonprofit sector in five different areas, the first being compensation. So in the for-profit sector, the more value you produce, the more money you can make. But we don't like nonprofits to use money to incentivize people to produce more in social service. We have a visceral reaction to the idea that anyone would make very much money helping other people. Interestingly, we don't have a visceral reaction to the notion that people would make a lot of money not helping other people. You know, you want to make 50 million dollars selling violent video games to kids, go for it. We'll put you on the cover of Wired magazine. But you want to make half a million dollars trying to cure kids of malaria, and you're considered a parasite yourself. (Applause) And we think of this as our system of ethics, but what we don't realize is that this system has a powerful side effect, which is: It gives a really stark, mutually exclusive choice between doing very well for yourself and your family or doing good for the world, to the brightest minds coming out of our best universities, and sends tens of thousands of people who could make a huge difference in the nonprofit sector, marching every year directly into the for-profit sector because they're not willing to make that kind of lifelong economic sacrifice. Businessweek did a survey, looked at the compensation packages for MBAs 10 years out of business school. And the median compensation for a Stanford MBA, with bonus, at the age of 38, was 400,000 dollars. Meanwhile, for the same year, the average salary for the CEO of a $5 million-plus medical charity in the U.S. was 232,000 dollars, and for a hunger charity, 84,000 dollars. Now, there's no way you're going to get a lot of people with $400,000 talent to make a $316,000 sacrifice every year to become the CEO of a hunger charity. Some people say, ""Well, that's just because those MBA types are greedy."" Not necessarily. They might be smart. It's cheaper for that person to donate 100,000 dollars every year to the hunger charity; save 50,000 dollars on their taxes — so still be roughly 270,000 dollars a year ahead of the game — now be called a philanthropist because they donated 100,000 dollars to charity; probably sit on the board of the hunger charity; indeed, probably supervise the poor SOB who decided to become the CEO of the hunger charity; (Laughter) and have a lifetime of this kind of power and influence and popular praise still ahead of them. The second area of discrimination is advertising and marketing. So we tell the for-profit sector, ""Spend, spend, spend on advertising, until the last dollar no longer produces a penny of value."" But we don't like to see our donations spent on advertising in charity. Our attitude is, ""Well, look, if you can get the advertising donated, you know, to air at four o'clock in the morning, I'm okay with that. But I don't want my donation spent on advertising, I want it go to the needy."" As if the money invested in advertising could not bring in dramatically greater sums of money to serve the needy. In the 1990s, my company created the long-distance AIDSRide bicycle journeys, and the 60 mile-long breast cancer three-day walks, and over the course of nine years, we had 182,000 ordinary heroes participate, and they raised a total of 581 million dollars. (Applause) They raised more money more quickly for these causes than any events in history, all based on the idea that people are weary of being asked to do the least they can possibly do. People are yearning to measure the full distance of their potential on behalf of the causes that they care about deeply. But they have to be asked. We got that many people to participate by buying full-page ads in The New York Times, in The Boston Globe, in prime time radio and TV advertising. Do you know how many people we would've gotten if we put up fliers in the laundromat? Charitable giving has remained stuck in the U.S., at two percent of GDP, ever since we started measuring it in the 1970s. That's an important fact, because it tells us that in 40 years, the nonprofit sector has not been able to wrestle any market share away from the for-profit sector. And if you think about it, how could one sector possibly take market share away from another sector if it isn't really allowed to market? And if we tell the consumer brands, ""You may advertise all the benefits of your product,"" but we tell charities, ""You cannot advertise all the good that you do,"" where do we think the consumer dollars are going to flow? The third area of discrimination is the taking of risk in pursuit of new ideas for generating revenue. So Disney can make a new $200 million movie that flops, and nobody calls the attorney general. But you do a little $1 million community fundraiser for the poor, and it doesn't produce a 75 percent profit to the cause in the first 12 months, and your character is called into question. So nonprofits are really reluctant to attempt any brave, daring, giant-scale new fundraising endeavors, for fear that if the thing fails, their reputations will be dragged through the mud. Well, you and I know when you prohibit failure, you kill innovation. If you kill innovation in fundraising, you can't raise more revenue; if you can't raise more revenue, you can't grow; and if you can't grow, you can't possibly solve large social problems. The fourth area is time. So Amazon went for six years without returning any profit to investors, and people had patience. They knew that there was a long-term objective down the line, of building market dominance. But if a nonprofit organization ever had a dream of building magnificent scale that required that for six years, no money was going to go to the needy, it was all going to be invested in building this scale, we would expect a crucifixion. The last area is profit itself. So the for-profit sector can pay people profits in order to attract their capital for their new ideas, but you can't pay profits in a nonprofit sector, so the for-profit sector has a lock on the multi-trillion-dollar capital markets, and the nonprofit sector is starved for growth and risk and idea capital. Well, you put those five things together — you can't use money to lure talent away from the for-profit sector; you can't advertise on anywhere near the scale the for-profit sector does for new customers; you can't take the kinds of risks in pursuit of those customers that the for-profit sector takes; you don't have the same amount of time to find them as the for-profit sector; and you don't have a stock market with which to fund any of this, even if you could do it in the first place — and you've just put the nonprofit sector at an extreme disadvantage to the for-profit sector, on every level. If we have any doubts about the effects of this separate rule book, this statistic is sobering: From 1970 to 2009, the number of nonprofits that really grew, that crossed the $50 million annual revenue barrier, is 144. In the same time, the number of for-profits that crossed it is 46,136. So we're dealing with social problems that are massive in scale, and our organizations can't generate any scale. All of the scale goes to Coca-Cola and Burger King. So why do we think this way? Well, like most fanatical dogma in America, these ideas come from old Puritan beliefs. The Puritans came here for religious reasons, or so they said, but they also came here because they wanted to make a lot of money. They were pious people, but they were also really aggressive capitalists, and they were accused of extreme forms of profit-making tendencies, compared to the other colonists. But at the same time, the Puritans were Calvinists, so they were taught literally to hate themselves. They were taught that self-interest was a raging sea that was a sure path to eternal damnation. This created a real problem for these people. Here they've come all the way across the Atlantic to make all this money, but making all this money will get you sent directly to Hell. What were they to do about this? Well, charity became their answer. It became this economic sanctuary, where they could do penance for their profit-making tendencies — at five cents on the dollar. So of course, how could you make money in charity if charity was your penance for making money? Financial incentive was exiled from the realm of helping others, so that it could thrive in the area of making money for yourself, and in 400 years, nothing has intervened to say, ""That's counterproductive and that's unfair."" Now, this ideology gets policed by this one very dangerous question, which is, ""What percentage of my donation goes to the cause versus overhead?"" There are a lot of problems with this question. I'm going to just focus on two. First, it makes us think that overhead is a negative, that it is somehow not part of the cause. But it absolutely is, especially if it's being used for growth. Now, this idea that overhead is somehow an enemy of the cause creates this second, much larger problem, which is, it forces organizations to go without the overhead things they really need to grow, in the interest of keeping overhead low. So we've all been taught that charities should spend as little as possible on overhead things like fundraising under the theory that, well, the less money you spend on fundraising, the more money there is available for the cause. Well, that's true if it's a depressing world in which this pie cannot be made any bigger. But if it's a logical world in which investment in fundraising actually raises more funds and makes the pie bigger, then we have it precisely backwards, and we should be investing more money, not less, in fundraising, because fundraising is the one thing that has the potential to multiply the amount of money available for the cause that we care about so deeply. I'll give you two examples. We launched the AIDSRides with an initial investment of 50,000 dollars in risk capital. Within nine years, we had multiplied that 1,982 times, into 108 million dollars after all expenses, for AIDS services. We launched the breast cancer three-days with an initial investment of 350,000 dollars in risk capital. Within just five years, we had multiplied that 554 times, into 194 million dollars after all expenses, for breast cancer research. Now, if you were a philanthropist really interested in breast cancer, what would make more sense: go out and find the most innovative researcher in the world and give her 350,000 dollars for research, or give her fundraising department the 350,000 dollars to multiply it into 194 million dollars for breast cancer research? 2002 was our most successful year ever. We netted for breast cancer alone, that year alone, 71 million dollars after all expenses. And then we went out of business, suddenly and traumatically. Why? Well, the short story is, our sponsors split on us. They wanted to distance themselves from us because we were being crucified in the media for investing 40 percent of the gross in recruitment and customer service and the magic of the experience, and there is no accounting terminology to describe that kind of investment in growth and in the future, other than this demonic label of ""overhead."" So on one day, all 350 of our great employees lost their jobs ... because they were labeled ""overhead."" Our sponsor went and tried the events on their own. The overhead went up. Net income for breast cancer research went down by 84 percent, or 60 million dollars, in one year. This is what happens when we confuse morality with frugality. We've all been taught that the bake sale with five percent overhead is morally superior to the professional fundraising enterprise with 40 percent overhead, but we're missing the most important piece of information, which is: What is the actual size of these pies? Who cares if the bake sale only has five percent overhead if it's tiny? What if the bake sale only netted 71 dollars for charity because it made no investment in its scale and the professional fundraising enterprise netted 71 million dollars because it did? Now which pie would we prefer, and which pie do we think people who are hungry would prefer? Here's how all of this impacts the big picture. I said that charitable giving is two percent of GDP in the United States. That's about 300 billion dollars a year. But only about 20 percent of that, or 60 billion dollars, goes to health and human services causes. The rest goes to religion and higher education and hospitals, and that 60 billion dollars is not nearly enough to tackle these problems. But if we could move charitable giving from two percent of GDP, up just one step to three percent of GDP, by investing in that growth, that would be an extra 150 billion dollars a year in contributions, and if that money could go disproportionately to health and human services charities, because those were the ones we encouraged to invest in their growth, that would represent a tripling of contributions to that sector. Now we're talking scale. Now we're talking the potential for real change. But it's never going to happen by forcing these organizations to lower their horizons to the demoralizing objective of keeping their overhead low. Our generation does not want its epitaph to read, ""We kept charity overhead low."" (Laughter) (Applause) We want it to read that we changed the world, and that part of the way we did that was by changing the way we think about these things. So the next time you're looking at a charity, don't ask about the rate of their overhead. Ask about the scale of their dreams, their Apple-, Google-, Amazon-scale dreams, how they measure their progress toward those dreams, and what resources they need to make them come true, regardless of what the overhead is. Who cares what the overhead is if these problems are actually getting solved? If we can have that kind of generosity — a generosity of thought — then the non-profit sector can play a massive role in changing the world for all those citizens most desperately in need of it to change. And if that can be our generation's enduring legacy — that we took responsibility for the thinking that had been handed down to us, that we revisited it, we revised it, and we reinvented the whole way humanity thinks about changing things, forever, for everyone — well, I thought I would let the kids sum up what that would be. Annalisa Smith-Pallotta: That would be Sage Smith-Pallotta: a real social Rider Smith-Pallotta: innovation. Dan Pallotta: Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天我想講的是社會創新和公益創業我碰巧有三胞胎他們還小,他們五歲有時候我告訴人家我有三胞胎他們說﹐ ""真的嗎? 幾個?""這是他們的照片那時Sage, Annalisa, 和Rider我同時也是同性戀者同時身為同性戀者和三胞胎的爸爸應該是我做過最有創意和最大膽的事 (笑) (掌聲) 我真正要談的公益創新是關於慈善我想講的是我們從小怎樣被灌輸對於幫助別人﹐慈善和非牟利團體的看法其實它們潛意識破壞我們所愛護的以及我們潛在去改變世界的渴望 我說這個以前﹐我想問一下我們其實相不相信非牟利組織擔任著改變世界的重要角色很多人說既然一般的企業幫助促進發展中的經濟體那麼就由社會型企業來負責餘下的那部分我相信企業會帶動很大部份的人性前進但同時, 它亦會放棄10%或以上的那些最不幸﹐最弱勢的人群社會型企業需要市場而它們亦沒有那些龐大的資金去拓展它們想開發的市場我是一個專門針對成長發展障礙的中心的董事他們需要的是笑容關懷﹐他們需要愛你如何把它們金錢化?非牟利團體和慈善事業便是在這時上場慈善工作是一個愛的市場為了那些沒有其他市場來幫助他們的人們所以,尤如Buckminster Fuller (美國哲學家、建築師及發明家)說的如果我們想要一個服務於所有人不遺漏一個人的世界非牟利團體必定要是很重要的一方 但這似乎不是太順利﹐為什麼我們的乳癌組織還沒有找到根治乳癌的方法或救助流浪兒團體還未解決大城市中無家可歸的問題?為什麼美國四十年來貧乏人口的比例還是停留在12%? 答案是﹐這些社會問題其實很大我們的團體相比之下猶如螳臂當車而且我們有一套信仰體系讓它們顯得更渺小我們有兩套規章制度一套是對非牟利團體另一套是對趨利的世界這就是種族歧視它在五個方面歧視了非牟利團體第一是回報 你在非牟利團體裡面製造的價值越多你賺的錢越多但我們不喜歡非牟利團體花錢激勵人們在公益服務上創造更多我們對某些人通過幫助別人而獲利良多這個想法有本能的厭惡但有趣的是我們對於那些賺賺得盆滿缽溢而又不去幫助別人的人又不厭惡要是你想靠售賣暴力電腦游戲賺五千萬﹐去吧﹗我們會讓你登上Wired 雜誌的封面但如果你想靠治好患瘧疾的小孩賺取五十萬你自己就會被看作一條寄生蟲 我們都以為這是道德觀念但我們不知道的其實這套觀念有一個非常顯著的弊病它給出了一個非此即彼的選擇要麼最好的給予自己和家人要麼為世界作出貢獻讓精英雲集的頂尖大學可以每年把數以千計能影響世界的人們送進非牟利機構裡就像數以千計直接送到牟利企業的人們一樣因為他們並不願意放棄經濟上的長期損失《商業週刊》雜誌做了一項調查把不同工商管理碩士(MBAs)的收入進行統計斯坦福大學的MBA，在三十八歲時的收入中位數加上紅利，是四十萬美元同時，一家資產為五百萬以上的美國醫療慈善機構的行政總裁平均收入是二十三萬美元而一家致力解決飢饉問題的慈善機構的總裁收入是八萬四千美元要很多有能力去賺四十萬的人現在放棄三十一萬六， 而當一家飢饉救助會的總裁簡直是天方夜談 有些人會說， ""都是因為那些MBA貪婪""其實不然,他們是聰明一個人每年捐給飢饉救助會十萬元從而少交五萬元的稅是比較便宜的即使這樣他們還是比救助會的總裁要多賺二十七萬美元又會因為捐了十萬塊錢被稱做大慈善家有時還會出席飢饉慈善的董事會監管那些不知死活非要當飢饉救助會的行政總裁還能終生保有這些勢力和影響力並廣受讚譽 第二方面的歧視來自宣傳跟廣告我們告訴牟利機構，""花，花，把錢都花在廣告上直到榨乾最後一滴價值""但我們偏不喜歡看到我們的捐款被花在為慈善做廣告上我們的態度是，""聽著，如是你真的要做那件事情你在清晨四點鐘做，我沒意見。但我真的不想看到我的捐款用在廣告上我是想它用在有需要的人身上啊。""誰說投資在廣告上就不能帶來巨大的收益去幫助有需要的人 1990 年，我的公司開辦了AIDSRide長途單車之旅和三天六十英哩長的乳癌步行活動經過九年的時間我們有18萬2千名平凡的勇士參與一共籌得五億八千一百萬美元的善款他們為了這些目標籌得的錢比以往任何活動籌得還要多還要快因為他們曉得人們厭煩被要求做這些起碼他們能夠做到的人們渴望瞭解自己在所關注的事業上在所關注的事業上盡力得到的結果。但得有人邀請他們我們之所以有那麼多參賽者全靠放在紐約時代雜誌波士頓環球報的整版廣告，還有電台，電視黃金時段的廣告你知道如果我們把宣傳放在自助洗衣店門口會有多少人參加嗎? 慈善捐助在美國一直停滯不前從1970年至今一直維持在國内生產總值的2%這個告訴我們很重要的一個事情就是四十年來，非牟利行業到現在還有從牟利行業那處爭得一點點市場試想一下一個連市場行銷都不被允許的行業又如何能夠從另一個行業那裡拿走市場?我們會告訴消費品品牌""你該宣傳產品所有的好處""但那邊，我們告訴慈善機構，""你不能夠宣傳你做過什麼好事""那你認為消費者的鈔票會落入哪一邊? 第三樣歧視是為提高收益而創新所承受的風險迪士尼可以虧掉一部二億元的電影沒有人會起訴它但要是你為了貧困籌了區區一百萬的款項而在頭一年沒有達到75%的盈餘你的聲譽就會遭到質疑所以非牟利機構其實真的對大膽的，銳意進取的大型的籌款活動卻步怕的是一旦失敗它們便會聲名狼藉你該知道禁止失敗我們便會泄氣。要是在籌款活動上沒有創新，就不會有任何收入提高要是沒有收入，你便不會發展不能夠發展，你便不能夠解決龐大的社會問題 第四點是時間。亞馬遜網站連續六年沒有發盈利給投資者人們都還有耐性他們知道這是一個在市場中獨佔鰲頭的長線項目但要是公益機構夢想要花六年創做一個龐大項目而這些錢都不會被用在有需要的人上全部金錢都用在投資在項目上它一定不會有好日子過 最後是盈餘牟利商業可以靠分紅來吸引人們來投資它們的新概念但非牟利機構不可以，牟利能夠獨霸市場但非牟利機構得不到成長跟機會以及理想的資本 你用五根指頭算算，你未能把能幹的人從牟利機構中挖過來你不能夠像牟利機構般宣傳，賣廣告去吸引新客戶你沒有牟利機構的能力承受追求那些客戶的風險你沒有像牟利機構那樣多的時間去找那些客戶你沒有股票市場去支助你所有這些行為就算你一開始能這麼做相較於牟利企業非牟利機構已經在非牟利機構已經在每個層面上都處於極端的劣勢要是你對這雙種標準的效果有所質疑這些統計數字能叫你醒悟過來從1970年 到2009年真正超越了五百萬年收入大關的非牟利機構有144個如此同時，能夠跨過那收入關卡的牟利機構有46,136個我們在處理那些龐大的社會問題但我們的機構自己卻無法成長全部的規模效益都落入到可口可樂和漢堡王 我們為何會這樣想?美國的這些狂熱信條來源于從前的清教徒的教義清教徒們，或者按他們自己的說法，來這裡出於宗教理由但他們也是為了賺大錢他們是虔誠的教徒也是激進的資本家比起其他殖民者他們被指責使用極端手段來牟利但同時﹐清教徒也是加爾文主義者所以他們被教導要怨恨自己他們被教導利己主義是罪惡的源頭是一條通向永恆詛咒必經的道路這樣不就會產生真正的問題?他們不辭萬里越洋來賺錢但賺這些錢又會把你直接推向地獄他們該怎樣做? 慈善公益就是他們的答案這是他們經濟的避難所他們可以繼續每一塊錢裡的五分錢懺悔理所當然地﹐要是慈善是你為牟利而懺悔那你怎樣能夠以它來賺錢?在幫助別人的國度裡﹐經濟獎勵是不容許的因為那會促使你去為自己賺錢﹐四百年來﹐從來沒有聲音介入說""這只會適得其反﹐這是不公平的"" 現在總有一個非常危險的問題縈繞著這種觀念""我的捐款有多少是落到慈善事業?有多少落入慈善機構的營運開銷?""這問題漏洞百出我只說兩個第一﹐ 我們認為開銷是無意義的它並不屬於慈善事業但它絕對是﹐ 特別是假如它們被用於機構發展日常開銷在某種程度上是慈善事業的大敵由此衍生了第二個更大的問題它逼迫這些機構拋開它們確實需要用以發展的營運開銷來運作為的只是將此開銷控制在低水準 我們提倡的是﹐慈善團體應該盡可能得在像籌款這些活動上削減開支在這種觀念下﹐你在籌款上花費越少便會有更多的錢花在慈善上假如在一個我們無法把事業做大的蕭條社會那確是真的但如果是在一個正常社會,越多捐款便會有更多資金讓這餅變大我們就是在背道而馳我們該投資更多錢在籌款上而不是更少因為籌款更有可能大量積聚財富用我們真的關心的事情上 我給你們兩個例子我們找風投融了五萬美元作為初始資金投在AIDSRides活動上九年內﹐資金增長了1,982 倍扣除所有開支以後﹐共一點八億美元用在愛滋事務上.我們投資了三十五萬美元在三天乳癌步行活動上僅僅五年﹐增長了554倍扣除開支後達到一億九千四百萬美元用在乳腺癌研究上要是你是真的熱心於乳癌的慈善家哪一樣比較合理去找世上最頂尖的研究家給她三十五萬美元用作研究還是給她的籌款部門三十五萬元利用它來變出一億九千四百萬美金用作乳腺癌研究？ 2002年是我們最成功的一年光在乳癌事業上，光在那一年我們就淨賺七千一百萬美元令人沮喪的是，忽然之間我們歇業了 為什麼? 簡單來說﹐我們被贊助商背叛了他們想跟我們保持距離因為我們投資了四成的盈利在招聘﹐和客戶服務還有體驗上而被傳媒定罪了因為這在財務報表上沒有專門的會計術語來對應那些用於成長與前景的投資只有這欄邪惡的營運費用一天間﹐我們全部350員工統統失業了因為他們是所謂的開銷我們的贊助上嘗試自己舉辦同類型的活動開銷少了用於乳癌研究的淨收入減少了84個百分比﹐即是一年六千萬 當我們把道德與節儉渾淆起來就會發生諸如此類的事我們一直宣導的是，從道德角度來說，只營運費用率在5%的餅乾義賣活動比營運費用率在40%的專業籌款機構更可取但我們忽略了最重要的一環究竟那塊餅有多大?誰去理會用5%來辦糕點義賣但收益甚微？假如因為他們沒有投資擴大規模它只能賺到71美元用來搞慈善？而專業募款機構因為這麼做了卻能夠籌到七千一百萬?那麼﹐我們更喜歡哪張餅？那些飢餓的人更想要哪塊餅? 這就是這一切如何來影響大局的我說過慈善捐款是在美國國內生產總值的百分之二這大約是一年三百億美金。只有大概2成﹐或六十億美元用在衛生健康和人類服務。其他用在宗教﹐高等教育和醫療上那六十億美元根本不夠解決這些問題要是我們能夠把慈善捐贈用那2%增加到總生產力的3%這一小步便是一年額外的150億美元要是這筆款項的絕大部分能送到衛生健康和人類服務的公益團體上因為我們鼓勵投資在它們的發展壯大上那將會募集到三倍的款項我們現在在談論規模我們在談論真正改變的可能性但這不是強迫它們把眼光收回來放到如何緊縮營運費用那些使人洩氣的目標所能實現的 我們這一代可不希望把""我們把慈善開支保持在最低"" 刻在墓碑上(笑) (掌聲)我們希望被刻上“我們改變了世界”我們能做到的部分原因正是我們改變了思考方式所以下一次你見到一家公益機構不要問他們開支有多少而要問他們夢想的大小像蘋果，穀歌，亞馬遜那樣大的夢想他們怎樣衡量抵達夢想的進度他們用什麼資源來使美夢成真而不管開支是多少要是那些問題真的被解決了﹐誰來理會開銷多少?要是我們有這種慷慨這種思想的慷慨，那麼非牟利部門可以在改變這個人們亟待它改變的世界中發揮巨大的作用如果那能成為我們留給後世不朽的遺產即我們負擔起了反思，修正留傳給我們的思想的責任並且我們徹底改變了人們思索變革的方法永遠地，為每一個人我想該讓孩子們來總結這將會是怎樣的一回事Annalisa Smith-Pallotta (女兒): 這將是Sage Smith-Pallotta (女兒): 一個真真正正的社會Rider Smith-Pallotta (兒子): 改革 Dan Pallotta: 感謝大家。謝謝. (掌聲)謝謝 (掌聲)"
