Talk	en	zh-tw
dan_cobley_what_physics_taught_me_about_marketing	"So I work in marketing, which I love, but my first passion was physics, a passion brought to me by a wonderful school teacher, when I had a little less gray hair. So he taught me that physics is cool because it teaches us so much about the world around us. And I'm going to spend the next few minutes trying to convince you that physics can teach us something about marketing. So quick show of hands — who studied some marketing in university? Who studied some physics in university? Pretty good. And at school? Okay, lots of you. So, hopefully this will bring back some happy, or possibly some slightly disturbing memories. So, physics and marketing. We'll start with something very simple — Newton's Law: ""The force equals mass times acceleration."" This is something that perhaps Turkish Airlines should have studied a bit more carefully before they ran this campaign. (Laughter) But if we rearrange this formula quickly, we can get to acceleration equals force over mass, which means that for a larger particle — a larger mass — it requires more force to change its direction. It's the same with brands: the more massive a brand, the more baggage it has, the more force is needed to change its positioning. And that's one of the reasons why Arthur Andersen chose to launch Accenture rather than try to persuade the world that Andersen's could stand for something other than accountancy. It explains why Hoover found it very difficult to persuade the world that it was more than vacuum cleaners, and why companies like Unilever and P&G keep brands separate, like Ariel and Pringles and Dove rather than having one giant parent brand. So the physics is that the bigger the mass of an object the more force is needed to change its direction. The marketing is, the bigger a brand, the more difficult it is to reposition it. So think about a portfolio of brands or maybe new brands for new ventures. Now, who remembers Heisenberg's uncertainty principle? Getting a little more technical now. So this says that it's impossible, by definition, to measure exactly the state — i.e., the position — and the momentum of a particle, because the act of measuring it, by definition, changes it. So to explain that — if you've got an elementary particle and you shine a light on it, then the photon of light has momentum, which knocks the particle, so you don't know where it was before you looked at it. By measuring it, the act of measurement changes it. The act of observation changes it. It's the same in marketing. So with the act of observing consumers, changes their behavior. Think about the group of moms who are talking about their wonderful children in a focus group, and almost none of them buy lots of junk food. And yet, McDonald's sells hundreds of millions of burgers every year. Think about the people who are on accompanied shops in supermarkets, who stuff their trolleys full of fresh green vegetables and fruit, but don't shop like that any other day. And if you think about the number of people who claim in surveys to regularly look for porn on the Web, it's very few. Yet, at Google, we know it's the number-one searched for category. So luckily, the science — no, sorry — the marketing is getting easier. Luckily, with now better point-of-sale tracking, more digital media consumption, you can measure more what consumers actually do, rather than what they say they do. So the physics is you can never accurately and exactly measure a particle, because the observation changes it. The marketing is — the message for marketing is — that try to measure what consumers actually do, rather than what they say they'll do or anticipate they'll do. So next, the scientific method — an axiom of physics, of all science — says you cannot prove a hypothesis through observation, you can only disprove it. What this means is you can gather more and more data around a hypothesis or a positioning, and it will strengthen it, but it will not conclusively prove it. And only one contrary data point can blow your theory out of the water. So if we take an example — Ptolemy had dozens of data points to support his theory that the planets would rotate around the Earth. It only took one robust observation from Copernicus to blow that idea out of the water. And there are parallels for marketing — you can invest for a long time in a brand, but a single contrary observation of that positioning will destroy consumers' belief. Take BP — they spent millions of pounds over many years building up its credentials as an environmentally friendly brand, but then one little accident. Think about Toyota. It was, for a long time, revered as the most reliable of cars, and then they had the big recall incident. And Tiger Woods, for a long time, the perfect brand ambassador. Well, you know the story. (Laughter) So the physics is that you cannot prove a hypothesis, but it's easy to disprove it — any hypothesis is shaky. And the marketing is that not matter how much you've invested in your brand, one bad week can undermine decades of good work. So be really careful to try and avoid the screw-ups that can undermine your brand. And lastly, to the slightly obscure world of entropy — the second law of thermodynamics. This says that entropy, which is a measure of the disorder of a system, will always increase. The same is true of marketing. If we go back 20 years, the one message pretty much controlled by one marketing manager could pretty much define a brand. But where we are today, things have changed. You can get a strong brand image or a message and put it out there like the Conservative Party did earlier this year with their election poster. But then you lose control of it. With the kind of digital comment creation and distribution tools that are available now to every consumer, it's impossible to control where it goes. Your brand starts being dispersed, (Laughter) it gets more chaotic. (Laughter) It's out of your control. (Laughter) I actually saw him speak — he did a good job. But while this may be unsettling for marketers, it's actually a good thing. This distribution of brand energy gets your brand closer to the people, more in with the people. It makes this distribution of energy a democratizing force, which is ultimately good for your brand. So, the lesson from physics is that entropy will always increase; it's a fundamental law. The message for marketing is that your brand is more dispersed. You can't fight it, so embrace it and find a way to work with it. So to close, my teacher, Mr. Vutter, told me that physics is cool, and hopefully, I've convinced you that physics can teach all of us, even in the world of marketing, something special. Thank you. (Applause)"	我的工作是行銷，我也樂在其中。而物理是我最初的摯愛。當年在學校裏，有個很棒的老師，他燃起了我對物理的熱情，當年的我，沒這麼多白頭髮。他告訴我，物理很酷，它教我們很多有關這個世界的事。接下來的幾分鐘裏，我要讓各位相信，物理其實可以教我們一些有關行銷的事。 我先做個小調查，這裏有人在大學裏修過行銷嗎?有人在大學裏修過物理嗎?噢，還不錯。中學的時候呢?好，看來還不少。那麼，希望這能讓你們回想起一些快樂的，或是讓人感到有點混亂的往事。 好的，物理和行銷:我們先從簡單的開始，先看牛頓定律:力等於質量乘以加速度土耳其航空也許應該先好好地學學這個定律，然後再推出這個行銷活動。(笑聲)如果我們很快地重組這個方程式，我們可以得出，加速度等於力除以質量，也就是說對質量比較大的物體而言，要改變它的方向，需要更大的力。品牌也是一樣的 。愈是重量級的品牌，包袱也愈重。所以就會需要更大的力，才能改變它的行銷定位。這就是為什麼亞瑟‧安德森(Arthur Andersen)選擇創立埃森哲(Accenture)公司，因為他不想費力要大家相信，安德森(Andersen)這塊招牌代表的不只是會計專業。這也是為什麼胡佛(Hoover)公司發現要說服大家，胡佛不只賣吸塵器不太容易。還有，像聯合利華(Unilever )和寶鹼(P&G)這些公司選擇保有獨立的品牌，奧力奧(Oreo)、品客(Pringle)和多芬(Dove)也是一樣，這些公司都不想經營一個大型的統一品牌。所以啦，物理定律說，物體質量愈大，就需要愈大的力量，才能改變物體行進的方向。行銷也是如此，品牌愈大重新定位就愈難。所以不妨考慮經營一組品牌或為新事業建立新的品牌。 現在我問一下，有誰記得海森堡(Heisenberg)的不定原理?這個技術含量稍微高一點。這個原理是說根據定義，我們不可能準確測量粒子的狀態，例如位置和動能，因為根據定義，測量行為本身，就會改變粒子的狀態。意思就是說，假設有一個基本粒子你拿光照它，這個光的光子會有動能，和粒子會發生碰撞。所以你不知道，在你看它之前，它在什麼位置。測量的同時，測量的動作會改變它。觀察的行為會改變它。這和行銷的道理是一樣的。觀察消費者的動作，會改變消費者的行為。假設有一群媽媽在焦點團體裏討論她們的小孩有多棒，而這些媽媽都買很多垃圾食物。所以，麥當勞每年才會賣出幾百萬個漢堡。再假設有一群人，由訪員陪同，在超市購物，他們往推車裏塞滿新鮮的綠色蔬菜和水果，但他們平常買東西的時候，可不像這樣。想想看，會在意見調查中宣稱自己經常上網搜尋色情圖片、影片(porn)的人數，是很少的。不過，我們知道Google搜尋榜上，第一名就是porn。幸運的是，科學—不好意思—是行銷，變得比較簡單了。我們現在很幸運，有更好的銷售時點(POS)追蹤系統，更多的數位媒體消費，你可以測量消費者的實際行為，而不只是聽他們說他們做了什麼。物理學上說，你永遠不可能確實、精準地測量一個粒子，因為觀察本身就會改變它。就行銷而言，應用在行銷上，則是要測量消費者的實際行為，而不是只聽他們說他們會怎麼做或預期他們會怎麼做。 接著，我們來看科學方法，這是物理學乃至所有科學的原理—你不能靠觀察來證明一項假說。你只能反證它。這個意思是，你可以收集很多很多的資料，來支持一項假說或定位，不過這只能強化它，而沒辦法完全的證明。但只要一個反面的資料，就能打倒你的理論。我們舉個例子—托勒密(Ptolemy)有很多資料來支持他的理論，也就是，行星是繞著地球運轉。但哥白尼一個有力的觀察結果，就把他的理論打得落花流水。行銷上也有這樣的例子。你可以在一個品牌上投入很多的時間經營，但只要有一個和品牌定位相反的事件，就足以擊潰消費者的信心。拿英國石油(BP)為例。他們在幾年內，花了幾百萬英磅營造一個愛護環境的品牌形象，然後，發生了這麼一個小意外。再看看Toyota。長久以來，它是受人尊崇，最值得信賴的汽車，然後，發生了一次大規模的回收事件。還有老虎伍茲，他向來是最完美的品牌大使。然後，你們都知道發生了什麼事。(笑聲)這就是物理學說的，你無法證明一個假說，但要反證它卻很容易。任何假說都不可靠。在行銷上，就是不管你在品牌經營上投注多少心力，只要一個處理不好，可能就會讓數十年的努力白費。所以，一定要小心避免這類狀況的發生，讓你的品牌受到傷害。 最後，來談談不太好懂的「熵」，熱力學第二定律。定律說，「熵」，也就是系統中的混亂程度會一直增加。這在行銷上也同樣適用。回到20年前，一個訊息，幾乎可以由一個行銷經理來掌握，而這個訊息，幾乎就能定義一個品牌。但現在已經不再是這樣了。你可以有一個很有力的品牌形象，或一個訊息，然後把它發送出去，就像英國保守黨前一陣子張貼競選海報的作法一樣。但之後你就控制不了了。現在有各式各樣製造和發送意見的工具，每個消費者都能使用，要控制訊息已經不可能了。你的品牌開始失焦。(笑聲)開始變得混亂。(笑聲)你沒辦法控制。(笑聲)我親自看過他的演說。他其實表現得不錯。雖然這或許會讓行銷人員感到不安，但這未嘗不是好事。品牌能量的散佈，能讓你的品牌更貼近一般人，更深入人心。能量的分散，是一個民主化的力量，最終對你的品牌有益。所以，物理學教我們的是熵會一直增加，這是基本原理。應用在行銷上，就是你的品牌能量會變得更分散。你既然沒辦法對抗它，那就擁抱它，找到和它共處的方法。 結論是，就像我的老師威特先生告訴我的，物理很酷，還有呢，希望各位都同意，物理可以教我們一些特別的事，甚至是行銷世界裏的事。謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
