Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_wolpert_the_real_reason_for_brains	"I'm a neuroscientist. And in neuroscience, we have to deal with many difficult questions about the brain. But I want to start with the easiest question and the question you really should have all asked yourselves at some point in your life, because it's a fundamental question if we want to understand brain function. And that is, why do we and other animals have brains? Not all species on our planet have brains, so if we want to know what the brain is for, let's think about why we evolved one. Now you may reason that we have one to perceive the world or to think, and that's completely wrong. If you think about this question for any length of time, it's blindingly obvious why we have a brain. We have a brain for one reason and one reason only, and that's to produce adaptable and complex movements. There is no other reason to have a brain. Think about it. Movement is the only way you have of affecting the world around you. Now that's not quite true. There's one other way, and that's through sweating. But apart from that, everything else goes through contractions of muscles. So think about communication — speech, gestures, writing, sign language — they're all mediated through contractions of your muscles. So it's really important to remember that sensory, memory and cognitive processes are all important, but they're only important to either drive or suppress future movements. There can be no evolutionary advantage to laying down memories of childhood or perceiving the color of a rose if it doesn't affect the way you're going to move later in life. Now for those who don't believe this argument, we have trees and grass on our planet without the brain, but the clinching evidence is this animal here — the humble sea squirt. Rudimentary animal, has a nervous system, swims around in the ocean in its juvenile life. And at some point of its life, it implants on a rock. And the first thing it does in implanting on that rock, which it never leaves, is to digest its own brain and nervous system for food. So once you don't need to move, you don't need the luxury of that brain. And this animal is often taken as an analogy to what happens at universities when professors get tenure, but that's a different subject. (Applause) So I am a movement chauvinist. I believe movement is the most important function of the brain — don't let anyone tell you that it's not true. Now if movement is so important, how well are we doing understanding how the brain controls movement? And the answer is we're doing extremely poorly; it's a very hard problem. But we can look at how well we're doing by thinking about how well we're doing building machines which can do what humans can do. Think about the game of chess. How well are we doing determining what piece to move where? If you pit Garry Kasparov here, when he's not in jail, against IBM's Deep Blue, well the answer is IBM's Deep Blue will occasionally win. And I think if IBM's Deep Blue played anyone in this room, it would win every time. That problem is solved. What about the problem of picking up a chess piece, dexterously manipulating it and putting it back down on the board? If you put a five year-old child's dexterity against the best robots of today, the answer is simple: the child wins easily. There's no competition at all. Now why is that top problem so easy and the bottom problem so hard? One reason is a very smart five year-old could tell you the algorithm for that top problem — look at all possible moves to the end of the game and choose the one that makes you win. So it's a very simple algorithm. Now of course there are other moves, but with vast computers we approximate and come close to the optimal solution. When it comes to being dexterous, it's not even clear what the algorithm is you have to solve to be dexterous. And we'll see you have to both perceive and act on the world, which has a lot of problems. But let me show you cutting-edge robotics. Now a lot of robotics is very impressive, but manipulation robotics is really just in the dark ages. So this is the end of a Ph.D. project from one of the best robotics institutes. And the student has trained this robot to pour this water into a glass. It's a hard problem because the water sloshes about, but it can do it. But it doesn't do it with anything like the agility of a human. Now if you want this robot to do a different task, that's another three-year Ph.D. program. There is no generalization at all from one task to another in robotics. Now we can compare this to cutting-edge human performance. So what I'm going to show you is Emily Fox winning the world record for cup stacking. Now the Americans in the audience will know all about cup stacking. It's a high school sport where you have 12 cups you have to stack and unstack against the clock in a prescribed order. And this is her getting the world record in real time. (Laughter) (Applause) And she's pretty happy. We have no idea what is going on inside her brain when she does that, and that's what we'd like to know. So in my group, what we try to do is reverse engineer how humans control movement. And it sounds like an easy problem. You send a command down, it causes muscles to contract. Your arm or body moves, and you get sensory feedback from vision, from skin, from muscles and so on. The trouble is these signals are not the beautiful signals you want them to be. So one thing that makes controlling movement difficult is, for example, sensory feedback is extremely noisy. Now by noise, I do not mean sound. We use it in the engineering and neuroscience sense meaning a random noise corrupting a signal. So the old days before digital radio when you were tuning in your radio and you heard ""crrcckkk"" on the station you wanted to hear, that was the noise. But more generally, this noise is something that corrupts the signal. So for example, if you put your hand under a table and try to localize it with your other hand, you can be off by several centimeters due to the noise in sensory feedback. Similarly, when you put motor output on movement output, it's extremely noisy. Forget about trying to hit the bull's eye in darts, just aim for the same spot over and over again. You have a huge spread due to movement variability. And more than that, the outside world, or task, is both ambiguous and variable. The teapot could be full, it could be empty. It changes over time. So we work in a whole sensory movement task soup of noise. Now this noise is so great that society places a huge premium on those of us who can reduce the consequences of noise. So if you're lucky enough to be able to knock a small white ball into a hole several hundred yards away using a long metal stick, our society will be willing to reward you with hundreds of millions of dollars. Now what I want to convince you of is the brain also goes through a lot of effort to reduce the negative consequences of this sort of noise and variability. And to do that, I'm going to tell you about a framework which is very popular in statistics and machine learning of the last 50 years called Bayesian decision theory. And it's more recently a unifying way to think about how the brain deals with uncertainty. And the fundamental idea is you want to make inferences and then take actions. So let's think about the inference. You want to generate beliefs about the world. So what are beliefs? Beliefs could be: where are my arms in space? Am I looking at a cat or a fox? But we're going to represent beliefs with probabilities. So we're going to represent a belief with a number between zero and one — zero meaning I don't believe it at all, one means I'm absolutely certain. And numbers in between give you the gray levels of uncertainty. And the key idea to Bayesian inference is you have two sources of information from which to make your inference. You have data, and data in neuroscience is sensory input. So I have sensory input, which I can take in to make beliefs. But there's another source of information, and that's effectively prior knowledge. You accumulate knowledge throughout your life in memories. And the point about Bayesian decision theory is it gives you the mathematics of the optimal way to combine your prior knowledge with your sensory evidence to generate new beliefs. And I've put the formula up there. I'm not going to explain what that formula is, but it's very beautiful. And it has real beauty and real explanatory power. And what it really says, and what you want to estimate, is the probability of different beliefs given your sensory input. So let me give you an intuitive example. Imagine you're learning to play tennis and you want to decide where the ball is going to bounce as it comes over the net towards you. There are two sources of information Bayes' rule tells you. There's sensory evidence — you can use visual information auditory information, and that might tell you it's going to land in that red spot. But you know that your senses are not perfect, and therefore there's some variability of where it's going to land shown by that cloud of red, representing numbers between 0.5 and maybe 0.1. That information is available in the current shot, but there's another source of information not available on the current shot, but only available by repeated experience in the game of tennis, and that's that the ball doesn't bounce with equal probability over the court during the match. If you're playing against a very good opponent, they may distribute it in that green area, which is the prior distribution, making it hard for you to return. Now both these sources of information carry important information. And what Bayes' rule says is that I should multiply the numbers on the red by the numbers on the green to get the numbers of the yellow, which have the ellipses, and that's my belief. So it's the optimal way of combining information. Now I wouldn't tell you all this if it wasn't that a few years ago, we showed this is exactly what people do when they learn new movement skills. And what it means is we really are Bayesian inference machines. As we go around, we learn about statistics of the world and lay that down, but we also learn about how noisy our own sensory apparatus is, and then combine those in a real Bayesian way. Now a key part to the Bayesian is this part of the formula. And what this part really says is I have to predict the probability of different sensory feedbacks given my beliefs. So that really means I have to make predictions of the future. And I want to convince you the brain does make predictions of the sensory feedback it's going to get. And moreover, it profoundly changes your perceptions by what you do. And to do that, I'll tell you about how the brain deals with sensory input. So you send a command out, you get sensory feedback back, and that transformation is governed by the physics of your body and your sensory apparatus. But you can imagine looking inside the brain. And here's inside the brain. You might have a little predictor, a neural simulator, of the physics of your body and your senses. So as you send a movement command down, you tap a copy of that off and run it into your neural simulator to anticipate the sensory consequences of your actions. So as I shake this ketchup bottle, I get some true sensory feedback as the function of time in the bottom row. And if I've got a good predictor, it predicts the same thing. Well why would I bother doing that? I'm going to get the same feedback anyway. Well there's good reasons. Imagine, as I shake the ketchup bottle, someone very kindly comes up to me and taps it on the back for me. Now I get an extra source of sensory information due to that external act. So I get two sources. I get you tapping on it, and I get me shaking it, but from my senses' point of view, that is combined together into one source of information. Now there's good reason to believe that you would want to be able to distinguish external events from internal events. Because external events are actually much more behaviorally relevant than feeling everything that's going on inside my body. So one way to reconstruct that is to compare the prediction — which is only based on your movement commands — with the reality. Any discrepancy should hopefully be external. So as I go around the world, I'm making predictions of what I should get, subtracting them off. Everything left over is external to me. What evidence is there for this? Well there's one very clear example where a sensation generated by myself feels very different then if generated by another person. And so we decided the most obvious place to start was with tickling. It's been known for a long time, you can't tickle yourself as well as other people can. But it hasn't really been shown, it's because you have a neural simulator, simulating your own body and subtracting off that sense. So we can bring the experiments of the 21st century by applying robotic technologies to this problem. And in effect, what we have is some sort of stick in one hand attached to a robot, and they're going to move that back and forward. And then we're going to track that with a computer and use it to control another robot, which is going to tickle their palm with another stick. And then we're going to ask them to rate a bunch of things including ticklishness. I'll show you just one part of our study. And here I've taken away the robots, but basically people move with their right arm sinusoidally back and forward. And we replay that to the other hand with a time delay. Either no time delay, in which case light would just tickle your palm, or with a time delay of two-tenths of three-tenths of a second. So the important point here is the right hand always does the same things — sinusoidal movement. The left hand always is the same and puts sinusoidal tickle. All we're playing with is a tempo causality. And as we go from naught to 0.1 second, it becomes more ticklish. As you go from 0.1 to 0.2, it becomes more ticklish at the end. And by 0.2 of a second, it's equivalently ticklish to the robot that just tickled you without you doing anything. So whatever is responsible for this cancellation is extremely tightly coupled with tempo causality. And based on this illustration, we really convinced ourselves in the field that the brain's making precise predictions and subtracting them off from the sensations. Now I have to admit, these are the worst studies my lab has ever run. Because the tickle sensation on the palm comes and goes, you need large numbers of subjects with these stars making them significant. So we were looking for a much more objective way to assess this phenomena. And in the intervening years I had two daughters. And one thing you notice about children in backseats of cars on long journeys, they get into fights — which started with one of them doing something to the other, the other retaliating. It quickly escalates. And children tend to get into fights which escalate in terms of force. Now when I screamed at my children to stop, sometimes they would both say to me the other person hit them harder. Now I happen to know my children don't lie, so I thought, as a neuroscientist, it was important how I could explain how they were telling inconsistent truths. And we hypothesize based on the tickling study that when one child hits another, they generate the movement command. They predict the sensory consequences and subtract it off. So they actually think they've hit the person less hard than they have — rather like the tickling. Whereas the passive recipient doesn't make the prediction, feels the full blow. So if they retaliate with the same force, the first person will think it's been escalated. So we decided to test this in the lab. (Laughter) Now we don't work with children, we don't work with hitting, but the concept is identical. We bring in two adults. We tell them they're going to play a game. And so here's player one and player two sitting opposite to each other. And the game is very simple. We started with a motor with a little lever, a little force transfuser. And we use this motor to apply force down to player one's fingers for three seconds and then it stops. And that player's been told, remember the experience of that force and use your other finger to apply the same force down to the other subject's finger through a force transfuser — and they do that. And player two's been told, remember the experience of that force. Use your other hand to apply the force back down. And so they take it in turns to apply the force they've just experienced back and forward. But critically, they're briefed about the rules of the game in separate rooms. So they don't know the rules the other person's playing by. And what we've measured is the force as a function of terms. And if we look at what we start with, a quarter of a Newton there, a number of turns, perfect would be that red line. And what we see in all pairs of subjects is this — a 70 percent escalation in force on each go. So it really suggests, when you're doing this — based on this study and others we've done — that the brain is canceling the sensory consequences and underestimating the force it's producing. So it re-shows the brain makes predictions and fundamentally changes the precepts. So we've made inferences, we've done predictions, now we have to generate actions. And what Bayes' rule says is, given my beliefs, the action should in some sense be optimal. But we've got a problem. Tasks are symbolic — I want to drink, I want to dance — but the movement system has to contract 600 muscles in a particular sequence. And there's a big gap between the task and the movement system. So it could be bridged in infinitely many different ways. So think about just a point to point movement. I could choose these two paths out of an infinite number of paths. Having chosen a particular path, I can hold my hand on that path as infinitely many different joint configurations. And I can hold my arm in a particular joint configuration either very stiff or very relaxed. So I have a huge amount of choice to make. Now it turns out, we are extremely stereotypical. We all move the same way pretty much. And so it turns out we're so stereotypical, our brains have got dedicated neural circuitry to decode this stereotyping. So if I take some dots and set them in motion with biological motion, your brain's circuitry would understand instantly what's going on. Now this is a bunch of dots moving. You will know what this person is doing, whether happy, sad, old, young — a huge amount of information. If these dots were cars going on a racing circuit, you would have absolutely no idea what's going on. So why is it that we move the particular ways we do? Well let's think about what really happens. Maybe we don't all quite move the same way. Maybe there's variation in the population. And maybe those who move better than others have got more chance of getting their children into the next generation. So in evolutionary scales, movements get better. And perhaps in life, movements get better through learning. So what is it about a movement which is good or bad? Imagine I want to intercept this ball. Here are two possible paths to that ball. Well if I choose the left-hand path, I can work out the forces required in one of my muscles as a function of time. But there's noise added to this. So what I actually get, based on this lovely, smooth, desired force, is a very noisy version. So if I pick the same command through many times, I will get a different noisy version each time, because noise changes each time. So what I can show you here is how the variability of the movement will evolve if I choose that way. If I choose a different way of moving — on the right for example — then I'll have a different command, different noise, playing through a noisy system, very complicated. All we can be sure of is the variability will be different. If I move in this particular way, I end up with a smaller variability across many movements. So if I have to choose between those two, I would choose the right one because it's less variable. And the fundamental idea is you want to plan your movements so as to minimize the negative consequence of the noise. And one intuition to get is actually the amount of noise or variability I show here gets bigger as the force gets bigger. So you want to avoid big forces as one principle. So we've shown that using this, we can explain a huge amount of data — that exactly people are going about their lives planning movements so as to minimize negative consequences of noise. So I hope I've convinced you the brain is there and evolved to control movement. And it's an intellectual challenge to understand how we do that. But it's also relevant for disease and rehabilitation. There are many diseases which effect movement. And hopefully if we understand how we control movement, we can apply that to robotic technology. And finally, I want to remind you, when you see animals do what look like very simple tasks, the actual complexity of what is going on inside their brain is really quite dramatic. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Quick question for you, Dan. So you're a movement — (DW: Chauvinist.) — chauvinist. Does that mean that you think that the other things we think our brains are about — the dreaming, the yearning, the falling in love and all these things — are a kind of side show, an accident? DW: No, no, actually I think they're all important to drive the right movement behavior to get reproduction in the end. So I think people who study sensation or memory without realizing why you're laying down memories of childhood. The fact that we forget most of our childhood, for example, is probably fine, because it doesn't effect our movements later in life. You only need to store things which are really going to effect movement. CA: So you think that people thinking about the brain, and consciousness generally, could get real insight by saying, where does movement play in this game? DW: So people have found out for example that studying vision in the absence of realizing why you have vision is a mistake. You have to study vision with the realization of how the movement system is going to use vision. And it uses it very differently once you think about it that way. CA: Well that was quite fascinating. Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	我是一個神經學家。在神經學中，我們必須處理許多關於大腦的艱深問題。但是我想從最簡單的問題開始談起，而每個人在人生中都該問過自己這個問題，因為想了解大腦的運作，是最根本的問題。這問題就是，為什麼我們和其他動物會有大腦呢？並非地球上所有的生物都有大腦，所以如果我們想知道大腦的作用，就得想想我們為何會進化出一個大腦。你現在可能認為大腦的存在是為了感覺這個世界或是思考，這是完全錯誤的。如果你花了很多時間去思考這個問題，這將會使你誤判為什麼我們會有大腦。我們擁有大腦的唯一原因，是為了產生適合且複雜的動作。這是大腦存在的唯一理由。想想看。動作是你感覺這個世界唯一的反應方式。這並非完全正確。還有一個方式，就是透過冒汗。但是除了那個以外，每件事都必須藉由肌肉的收縮。 所以, 看看溝通 —說話、姿勢、寫字、手語 —這些都藉由收縮你的肌肉來達成。記住事情是很重要的，感覺、記憶和理解程序都很重要，但這些是為了能夠做到開始或結束後續的動作, 所以才會重要。小時候的回憶累積、或是對於玫瑰顏色的認知，對於進化並沒有什麼影響，如果它對你未來生活的行為沒有幫助。 對於那些不相信這種說法的人們，雖然地球上的樹和草都沒有大腦，但這動物就是確切的證據 —這渺小的海鞘。這種未進化的動物，擁有神經系統，幼年時會在海洋中游盪著。等到長大之後，它便會攀附在岩石上。當它攀附上這永遠居住的岩石之後，它所作的第一件事，就是將它的大腦和神經系統當食物吃掉。所以一旦你不再需要移動，你就不需要大腦這種奢侈品了。這種動物常被拿來當作一種比喻，當大學教授獲得終身職位之後會發生的事情，不過那是另外一個話題了。 (掌聲) 我是一個活動主義者。我認為大腦最重要的功能就是控制動作，別讓任何人告訴你這不是真的。如果動作那麼重要，我們對於了解大腦如何控制動作這方面的研究進展如何呢？答案是，少得可憐；這是很艱深的難題。但我們可以換個方向來思考，看看我們對於建造能做出和人類一樣動作的機器這種研究進展如何。 想想看西洋棋這種遊戲。我們決定該將哪個棋子移到哪個位置這種研究做得怎麼樣？如果你在 Gary Kasparov 還沒去坐牢之前，讓他跟 IBM 的深藍電腦進行比賽，IBM 的深藍電腦有時候可以獲勝。我想如果讓 IBM 的深藍電腦跟在座任何一位下棋，它每次都會獲勝。這個問題就被解決了。但如果這個問題是拿起一個棋子，靈巧地拿起它，再放回棋盤上呢？如果你讓一個五歲的小孩跟現今最棒的機器人進行比賽，答案很簡單：那個小孩可以輕易獲勝。機器人完全不是對手。 那麼，為什麼之前的問題很容易做到？而接著的問題卻很困難呢？原因之一是，一個很聰明的五歲小孩可以告訴你上面問題的演算法則 —找出直到遊戲結束的所有可能移動步法，然後選擇可以讓你獲勝的步法。所以這是很簡單的演算法則。當然有其他的步法，但是利用龐大的電腦系統，我們估算並且找出最佳解答。當討論到靈巧時，甚至沒有明確的演算法則告訴你什麼叫做靈巧。於是你必須感覺同時去做出反應，這就會遇到很多問題。 讓我介紹一些先進的機器人。現在有許多優秀的機器人，但是操控機器人仍舊處於黑暗的時代。這是在某一個很棒的機器人學院中，一個博士研究項目的成果。這位學生訓練這個機器人將水倒進杯子裡面。這是很困難的題目，因為水會濺出來，但是它可以辦到。但是它無法像人類做得那麼靈巧。如果你希望這個機器人進行另一項任務，那將是另一個三年期的博士研究計畫。在機器人工程學裡，一項任務和另一項任務是沒有共通性的。 我們可以將這個和人類優異的表現做比較。我要給大家看的是 Emily Fox,她是贏得堆疊杯子世界冠軍的人。觀眾席中如果有美國人，應該知道這個堆疊杯子的比賽。這是一項高中常見的運動，你得把 12 個杯子依據指定的順序快速的堆疊再分開。這是她創下世界紀錄的畫面，以正常速度播放。(笑聲)(掌聲)她非常開心。我們不知道當她做這件事情時，腦子裡發生了什麼事情，那是我們很想知道。 所以我的團隊，我們想要做的是針對人類如何控制動作這件事去進行逆向工程。這聽起來是很簡單的問題。你送出一個指令，這會讓肌肉收縮。你的手臂或身體移動，然後你得到來自於視覺、皮膚、肌肉等處的感覺回饋。問題是，這些訊息不如你預期的那樣完美。讓控制動作變得困難的其中一個因素是，舉例來說，感覺回饋是充滿雜訊的。關於雜訊，我指的不是聲音。雜訊一般用在工程學與神經科學的檢測中，是指干擾主要訊號的不規律且雜亂的訊號。所以在數位收音機出現之前，當你轉動舊式收音機，你會在你想聽得電台中聽見「嘎啦嘎啦」的聲音，那就是雜訊。講白話一點，雜訊就是干擾訊號的東西。 例如，當你將手放在桌子底下，試著用另一隻手去找到它的位置，你可能會誤差好幾公分，因為感知回饋中有雜訊。同樣地，當你將動力源的力量變成動作的力量時，訊號將是非常雜亂的。先不談射飛鏢時能射中靶心，只要試著去重複瞄準同一個點看看。因為動作的差異性，你會丟到許多不同的點上去。更別提在外在世界，或是執行任務時，充滿著不確定性和變異性。茶壺可能是滿的，也可能是空的。每次都不一樣。所以我們是在充滿雜訊的環境中進行動作。 因為這個雜訊非常巨大，所以我們的社會給予那些能夠抵抗雜訊的人鉅額獎賞。所以如果你能將一顆小白球用一根金屬長棍打進幾百碼外的洞裡，人們願意給你好幾億的獎金。 而我想要讓你知道的是大腦做了許多的努力去減少這些雜訊以及變異性所造成的負面效應。為此，我將會介紹一個在過去五十年間，常被用在統計與機械學習方面的架構，叫做貝葉斯決策理論。近來它已經逐漸變成用來解釋大腦如何處理不確定性的主要方法。它的基本概念是，你先做出假設，然後去行動。 我們先來看看假設。你要產生出對事物的信念。什麼是信念呢？信念可以是：我的手臂在空間中的哪個位置？我看見的是一隻貓還是一隻狐狸？而我們必須用可能性來表示信念。我們要將信念表達為介於 0 到 1 之間的數字 —0 代表我完全不相信，1 則表示我絕對相信。而介於期間的數字則是代表不確定性的灰色地帶。貝葉斯假設的關鍵在於你有兩種不同的資訊來源用來建立起你的假設。你會有資訊，在神經科學中，這資訊就是你的感覺。我有感覺，所以我可以將它用來建立信念。但還有另一種資訊的來源，就是已經擁有的知識。藉由生命中的回憶，知識會被累積下來。而貝葉斯決策理論的重點在於它提供你一種數學的最佳化方式來合併你原有的知識和你的感覺以產生出新的信念。 它的公式在這裡。我不會解釋公式是什麼，但是它很漂亮。它擁有真實的美感，和真實的說服力。它真正表達的，以及你想要估計出的，是由你的感覺所產生出不同信念的可能性。我舉一個很直接的例子。想像你正在學習打網球，當球飛過網子朝你過來時，你要決定球會掉在哪個位置。依據貝葉斯的理論，你有兩個資訊來源。一個是感覺證據 — 你可以藉由視覺和聽覺的資訊，那可能會讓你判斷在紅點處。而你知道你的感覺並不完美，所以它的落點會有誤差，這就是紅色區域，而可能性大概是在 0.5 到 0.1 之間。 這資訊來自於這一次的發球，還有另外的資訊並非由這次發球而來，而是來自於反覆進行網球比賽的經驗，經驗告訴你，在這場比賽中，球落在球場上每個位置的可能性並不相等。如果你的對手技術很棒，他們會讓球落在綠色區域，就是所謂的先驗分布，這會讓你難以回擊。這些訊息來源都帶有重要的訊息。依據貝葉斯理論所說，我應該將紅色區域的機率和綠色區域的機率相乘，就會得到橢圓形黃色區域的機率，而這就是我的信念。這是合併訊息的最佳方式。 幾年前我們的研究發現，人們在學習新的動作技巧時，確實有同樣的現象。也就是說，我們就像是使用貝葉斯假設的機器。在生活中，我們學習並累積了關於世界的許多統計資料，但我們也學習了我們自身感知器官產生的雜訊有多少，然後將這些合併在一起，這些正是貝葉斯法則。 貝葉斯法則的一個關鍵部份就是這個公式的這個部份。這部份是在說我必須利用不同的感知回饋去預測各種可能性來創造出我的信念。意思是說，我必須要去預測未來。我要讓大家了解的是，大腦真的能夠預測即將獲得的感知回饋。並且，它會因為你的行為而深深改變你的感覺。為此，我將會告訴你，大腦是怎麼處理獲得的感知訊號。於是你送出一個指令，你得到一個感知的回饋，而這個轉換是由你的身體和感知器官的物理層面所管理。 但是你可以想像一下大腦的內部狀況。這是大腦的內側。有一個小小的預測器具，一種神經模擬器，可以模擬出你的身體和感覺的物理現象。於是當你送出動作的指令，你順便複製了一份指令，然後將它送進你的神經模擬器去預測動作造成的感知結果。所以當我搖動這瓶蕃茄醬時，我得到真正的感知回饋，就是那個底下那個時間函數。如果我有一個很好的預測器具，它可以預測出同樣的東西。 為什麼我要這麼做呢？反正我會得到同樣的回饋啊。這可是有很好的解釋的。想像一下，當我搖動這瓶蕃茄醬時，某人很好心隨著我的動作，將它拍回來給我。現在我因為這個額外的動作而有了額外的感知訊息。於是我有了兩個感知來源。一個是你拍它，一個是我搖它，但是對我的感覺來說，它被合併在一起，變成了一種感知來源。 現在有了很好的理由去相信你會希望能夠將外在和內在的事件給分開來。因為相對於在我體內進行事物的感覺，外在的事件跟行為事件更具有相關性。要將感覺重新建立的方法是去針對基於你的動作指令做的預測以及真實的狀況去進行比較。幸運的話，出現的差異都屬於外在的影響。所以當我在生活中，我預測將會遇到的狀況，然後將這些預期剔除。剩下的就是外在對我的影響。 有什麼證據能證明嗎？嗯，有一個很明確的例子，當我自己本身產生的感覺和別人的感覺很不一樣的時候。於是我們決定開始測試最常見的狀況，那就是搔癢。大家都知道，你自己搔自己癢的感覺不會像別人搔你癢那麼強烈。但是大家都還不知道，那是因為你擁有神經模擬器，模擬著你自己的身體，並且將這個感覺給剔除掉。而我們在這21世紀進行實驗時，可以藉由機器人技術來解決這個問題。我們的作法是，在一個機器人的手中裝置一根棍子，然後讓它前後移動。接著我們會用電腦來追蹤這個動作，藉以控制另一個機器人，它會用另一根棍子來搔對方手掌心的癢。接著我們會要求它們針對一些事情進行評分，也包含了癢的程度。 我所展示的只是我們研究中的一部分。這邊我沒有放入機器人，只是用人依據正弦波的方式去前後移動右手。接著我們用另一隻手稍微慢一點再做一次。或是以同樣速度，輕輕搔癢你的手心，或是有個 0.2 或 0.3 秒的時間差。有一個重點是，右手總是進行正弦波的動作。而左手總是進行同樣的動作，並且進行搔癢。我們穩定的增加時間差。當我們將時間差從 0 增大到 0.1 秒時，會覺得稍微癢一點。當時間差由 0.1 增大到 0.2 秒時，最後會覺得更癢。當時間差到達 0.2 秒時，那個癢度將等同於在你什麼都不做時，機器人搔你癢的感覺。不論消弭感覺的原因是什麼，它和這個時間差有密切的關聯性。基於這個例子，我們可以確信大腦會做出精確的預測並且將預測內容從感覺中剔除。 我必須承認，這些是我的實驗室所做過的案子中最糟的研究。因為這些在手掌上搔癢的感覺一下就沒了，你需要大量的測試者來獲得數據，才能使測試結果比較有意義。所以我們找尋了比較客觀的方法來評估這個現象。在中間這幾年，我有了兩個女兒。在長途旅程中，你會發現在車子後座上的小孩們，她們會吵架 —當某個小孩對另一個人動了手之後，另一個也會還手。很快就會越來越嚴重。小孩們打架時通常會越打越大力。當我叫她們住手時，有時候她們都會跟我說另一個人打得比較大力。 我剛好知道我的小孩不會說謊的，所以身為一個神經科學家，我開始思考，要怎麼解釋，她們兩人口中的真相會相互矛盾是很重要的一件事。我們假設，依據這個搔癢的研究，當一個小孩打另一個人時，她們產生了動作指令。她們預測了感知結果，並且剔除了它。所以她們認為自己打對方的力量比較小 —就像搔癢一樣。然而，在被打的時候，並不會產生這種預測，所以感覺到了全力。所以如果她們還手的力道一樣，第一個出手的人會覺得力量變大了。 所以我們決定在實驗室做這個實驗。(笑聲)我們不是用小孩做測試，我們也不是測試打架，不過概念上是完全一樣的。我們找了兩個大人。我們告訴他們將會進行一場遊戲。於是一個玩家和另一個人面對面的坐著。這個遊戲很簡單。我們用了一個馬達上面裝著一根小槓桿，一個小型力量傳輸器。我們用這個馬達來對下面的玩家手指施力持續三秒鐘，然後停止。這個玩家被告知要記住這個力量的感覺，然後用你另一隻手指藉由力量傳輸器，去施加相同的力量到下面受測試者的手指上 — 於是他們這麼做了。第二個玩家被告知要記住這個力量的感覺。用你的另一隻手去施加相同的力量回去。於是他們輪流來回地去施加他們所感受到的力量。 不過關鍵點是，他們是在不同的房間內被告知遊戲的規則。所以他們不知道彼此的遊戲規則。而我們所量測到的力量是一個次數的函式。如果我們看看初始的力量，這是牛頓 (單位)的¼ ，次數是第一次，完美的情況應該是這條紅線。而我們看見所有被測試者的結果是這樣 —在每一次進行時會上升 70% 的力量。所以依據這個研究以及先前的研究結果，可以清楚的告訴你，大腦會將感知的結果給剔除掉，因而低估自身產生的力量。再次說明了，大腦會進行預測因而從根本上改變了遊戲規則。於是我們做出判斷，做出預測，然後我們必須產生行動。貝葉斯法則所說的，基於我的信念，在某種意義上而言，這個行動應該是最好的選擇。 但是我們卻遇到了問題。任務只具有象徵性的意義 — 我想要喝水，我想要跳舞 —但是動作系統卻必須依據特定順序去收縮 600 條肌肉。在任務和運動系統之間有著很大的差距。所以其中可能有無限可能的方式去進行橋接溝通。想想看就單一點對點的移動。我可以從這無限可能中找出兩條路徑。一旦選定一條路徑後，我可以將我的手保持在這路徑上，但仍然有許多不同的連接結構可選。我可以將我的手臂保持在特定的連接結構上，不管是很僵硬或是很放鬆。所以我可以有許多的選擇。結果就是，我們總是一成不變。我們總是用同樣的方式進行動作。 所以導致我們總是一成不變，我們的大腦產生了特定的神經迴路來處理這個老套的動作。如果我使用一些點將他們設定進行生態動作，你的大腦迴路會立刻了解那是在做什麼。這是許多點在移動。你可以了解這個人在做什麼，是否開心、難過、年老、年輕 — 許多的資訊。如果這些點是正在賽車場上奔馳的車子，你就一定不知道它們在做什麼了。 那麼，這是為什麼我們會用特定的方式去做動作呢？我們來想想到底發生了什麼事吧。也許我們做動作的方式並不完全相同。也許人與人之間有些差異。也許比較擅長進行動作的人擁有比較高的機會讓他們的下一代繼續生存。於是在演化的過程中，動作越做越好。也許在人生中，藉由學習可以讓動作變得更好。 那麼，怎樣的動作算是好或不好呢？想像一下，我要攔截這個球。這個有兩種可能的行進路線。如果我選了左手邊的路徑，我可以以時間函數的方式去算出我的肌肉所需要的力氣。但其中有個雜訊。依據這個可愛的、平滑的、令人期待的力量，事實上我得到的是一個有著雜訊的版本。所以如果我在不同時間下了同樣的指令，我每次都會得到不同的雜訊版本，因為雜訊每次都不一樣。所以這兒我可以給你看的是，如果我用這種方式去選擇，我可以得到的運動方式有多少變異性。如果我選了一種不一樣的運動方式 — 例如右邊這個 —於是我會有不同的指令、不同的雜訊，透過雜訊系統，是相當複雜的。我們能確定的是，變異性會是不同的。如果我以特定的方式去動作，在許多動作後，我會獲得類似的變異性。所以如果我必須在這兩者間作選擇，我會選擇右邊這個，因為它的變化比較小。 基本的概念是，在你計畫你的行動時，你就是在設法降低負面的雜訊干擾。從直覺上可得知，這裡的雜訊或變異性，會隨著力量上升而變大。所以原則上你會避免用太大的力量。藉由這個，我們可以解釋許多的資訊 —人們在計畫進行行動的時候，確實就是在設法降低負面雜訊的干擾。 我希望我能讓你了解，大腦的存在就是為了控制動作的。想要了解這件事，是很具有挑戰性的。但這同時也跟疾病和康復有相關連性。有許多疾病會影響行動能力。如果我們能了解大腦如何控制動作，我們就能將它運用在機器人技術上。最後，我要提醒大家，當你看見動物做著看似簡單的動作時，它們腦中正在進行的事情，可是非常令人驚訝的複雜。 非常謝謝大家。 (掌聲) Chris Anderson: Dan, 我想問個簡短的問題。你是一個動作 — (DW:沙文主義者。) — 沙文主義者。是不是表示，你認為我們腦中在想的其他事情 —夢想、渴望、戀愛和這些事情 —只是一些附帶結果或是意外產生的呢？ DW: 不，事實上我認為這些事情在促使正確的動作行為以達到繁衍目的是很重要的。所以我認為人們在研究感覺或記憶時，忽略了去理解為什麼人們要累積兒時的記憶。舉例來說，事實上我們忘了大部分兒時的回憶，這也許是沒關係的，因為這不會影響往後人生的動作。你只需要去記住那些真正會影響動作的事情。 CA: 所以你認為人們思考大腦的功用時，一般而言，可以藉由思考動作所扮演的意義，來找到真正的答案？ DW: 舉例來說，人們已經發現，不了解為何擁有視覺，就去研究視覺，是一項錯誤。在研究視覺的時候，你必須了解動作系統是如何運用視覺的。一旦你這樣想，運用的方式將會相當不同。 CA：這真的很有意思。非常感謝你。 (掌聲)
