Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_kraft_invents_a_better_way_to_harvest_bone_marrow	So I am a pediatric cancer doctor and stem-cell researcher at Stanford University where my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation. Now, inspired by Jill Bolte Taylor last year, I didn't bring a human brain, but I did bring a liter of bone marrow. And bone marrow is actually what we use to save the lives of tens of thousands of patients, most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphoma and some other diseases. So, a few years ago, I'm doing my transplant fellowship at Stanford. I'm in the operating room. We have Bob here, who is a volunteer donor. We're sending his marrow across the country to save the life of a child with leukemia. So actually how do we harvest this bone marrow? Well we have a whole O.R. team, general anesthesia, nurses, and another doctor across from me. Bob's on the table, and we take this sort of small needle, you know, not too big. And the way we do this is we basically place this through the soft tissue, and kind of punch it into the hard bone, into the tuchus — that's a technical term — and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out, each time, with a syringe. And hand it off to the nurse. She squirts it into a tin. Hands it back to me. And we do that again and again. About 200 times usually. And by the end of this my arm is sore, I've got a callus on my hand, let alone Bob, whose rear end looks something more like this, like Swiss cheese. So I'm thinking, you know, this procedure hasn't changed in about 40 years. And there is probably a better way to do this. So I thought of a minimally invasive approach, and a new device that we call the Marrow Miner. This is it. And the Marrow Miner, the way it works is shown here. Our standard see-through patient. Instead of entering the bone dozens of times, we enter just once, into the front of the hip or the back of the hip. And we have a flexible, powered catheter with a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrow and follows the contours of the hip, as it moves around. So it enables you to very rapidly aspirate, or suck out, rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole. We can do multiple passes through that same entry. No robots required. And, so, very quickly, Bob can just get one puncture, local anesthesia, and do this harvest as an outpatient. So I did a few prototypes. I got a small little grant at Stanford. And played around with this a little bit. And our team members developed this technology. And eventually we got two large animals, and pig studies. And we found, to our surprise, that we not only got bone marrow out, but we got 10 times the stem cell activity in the marrow from the Marrow Miner, compared to the normal device. This device was just FDA approved in the last year. Here is a live patient. You can see it following the flexible curves around. There will be two passes here, in the same patient, from the same hole. This was done under local anesthesia, as an outpatient. And we got, again, about three to six times more stem cells than the standard approach done on the same patient. So why should you care? Bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells. You all know about embryonic stem cells. They've got great potential but haven't yet entered clinical trials. Adult stem cells are throughout our body, including the blood-forming stem cells in our bone marrow, which we've been using as a form of stem-cell therapy for over 40 years. In the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease, vascular disease, orthopedics, tissue engineering, even in neurology to treat Parkinson's and diabetes. We've just come out, we're commercializing, this year, generation 2.0 of the Marrow Miner. The hope is that this gets more stem cells out, which translates to better outcomes. It may encourage more people to sign up to be potential live-saving bone marrow donors. It may even enable you to bank your own marrow stem cells, when you're younger and healthier, to use in the future should you need it. And ultimately — and here's a picture of our bone marrow transplant survivors, who come together for a reunion each year at Stanford. Hopefully this technology will let us have more of these survivors in the future. Thanks. (Applause)	我是一個小兒科癌病醫師，亦在史丹佛大學研究幹細胞，我的臨床研究專攻骨髓移植。我受到去年 TED 講者 Jill Bolte Taylor 的影響，雖然我沒有帶一個人腦標本來，但我帶了一公升的骨髓。我們就是用這些骨髓，拯救了數萬名病人的生命，他們大部分患有較嚴重的惡性腫瘤，如血癌與淋巴瘤和其他一些疾病。 回想數年前，我在史丹佛學習手術移植時，我在手術房， 還有 Bob ，Bob 是名器官志願捐贈者。他的骨髓被運送橫跨了整個國家， 拯救了一個患了血癌的小孩。我們怎樣抽取這些骨髓呢？我們有一整個手術醫療團隊，麻醉醫師， 護士，我對面還站著另一位醫師。Bob 躺在桌上，然後我們將這個針筒，這針筒並不是太大。基本上，我們用的方法是將這針筒放進軟組織，鑽入硬骨頭，插入 tuchus （這是屁股的專業術語），每一次用針筒吸出大概十毫升骨髓，然後把針筒傳給護士，她把骨髓注入一個鐵桶，再將針筒傳給我。如此這般，不斷的重複，大約二百次。到最後，我的手臂酸痛，手掌長繭。更不用說 Bob 了！他的屁股就像這幅圖一樣，像個瑞士起司。 所以我就在想，你知道的，這方法四十年來沒有任何改變，應該可以有更好的方法。因此，我想出一個減少侵入身體的方法。一個叫做「骨髓採取器」的新儀器就此誕生。就是這個。「骨髓採取器」的用法示範如下， 看看這個可以被「看穿」的病人 ...相對於鑽入骨頭數十次，我們只需要從臀部前面或後面鑽一次。將這條柔軟的電動導管 —其管尖上有一個可留在骨髓內的特別鋼圈，它能隨著臀部的輪廓移動。這機器能讓你從同一個洞，快速的大量吸取骨髓。我們可以利用同一個入口多次進出，無需機械人輔助。非常迅速地，Bob 只需一個傷口，局部麻醉，可將他當作一般的門診病人辦理。 因此我做了幾個原型，在史丹佛申請了一個小額研究贊助金。繼續探究這個方法的可行性。我們團隊的成員開發了這項技術。結果完成兩項用大型動物及豬作試驗的研究項目。我們發現這個方法不但可以取得骨髓,而且用「骨髓採取器」所抽出的骨髓比使用舊有方法抽出的骨髓幹細胞活性增加十倍。這個儀器去年剛剛被美國食品及藥物管理局批准使用。 從這個真實病人的片段，你可以看到管子隨著弧線移動。在同一個病人，同一個位置，進入兩次。只需局部麻醉，因此病人掛門診即可。比起原來標準的方法，同一個病人，可以取出三至六倍的幹細胞。 為什麼這很重要？骨髓內充滿著成人幹細胞，相信你們都聽過胚胎幹細胞,它們潛力無窮，但還未進入臨床試驗階段。但成人幹細胞遍佈我們身體各處,包括在骨髓製造血液的幹細胞。骨髓移植其實就是一種幹細胞療法，這療法我們已經進行了四十餘年。過去十年，利用骨髓幹細胞治療各種疾病的應用層出不窮，如心臟病、血管疾病、整型外科、組織工程及腦科疾病，如帕金森氏症,和糖尿病。 今年，我們剛剛公佈，正在推廣第二代「骨髓採取器」。希望可以取出更多幹細胞，令更多病人康復。同時也可能會鼓勵更多人登記成為能拯救生命的骨髓捐贈者。甚至可能讓你趁你年輕力壯時，儲存你自己的骨髓幹細胞,以備未來不時之需。最後 — 這是一張我們骨髓移植康復者的合照。他們每年都會回到史丹佛聚會。希望這項技術可以讓我們未來參加聚會的康復者人數愈來愈多。謝謝 （掌聲）
