Talk	en	zh-tw
danit_peleg_forget_shopping_soon_you_ll_download_your_new_clothes	"In the past few months, I've been traveling for weeks at a time with only one suitcase of clothes. One day, I was invited to an important event, and I wanted to wear something special and new for it. So I looked through my suitcase and I couldn't find anything to wear. I was lucky to be at the technology conference on that day, and I had access to 3D printers. So I quickly designed a skirt on my computer, and I loaded the file on the printer. It just printed the pieces overnight. The next morning, I just took all the pieces, assembled them together in my hotel room, and this is actually the skirt that I'm wearing right now. (Applause) So it wasn't the first time that I printed clothes. For my senior collection at fashion design school, I decided to try and 3D print an entire fashion collection from my home. The problem was that I barely knew anything about 3D printing, and I had only nine months to figure out how to print five fashionable looks. I always felt most creative when I worked from home. I loved experimenting with new materials, and I always tried to develop new techniques to make the most unique textiles for my fashion projects. I loved going to old factories and weird stores in search of leftovers of strange powders and weird materials, and then bring them home to experiment on. As you can probably imagine, my roommates didn't like that at all. (Laughter) So I decided to move on to working with big machines, ones that didn't fit in my living room. I love the exact and the custom work I can do with all kinds of fashion technologies, like knitting machines and laser cutting and silk printing. One summer break, I came here to New York for an internship at a fashion house in Chinatown. We worked on two incredible dresses that were 3D printed. They were amazing — like you can see here. But I had a few issues with them. They were made from hard plastics and that's why they were very breakable. The models couldn't sit in them, and they even got scratched from the plastics under their arms. With 3D printing, the designers had so much freedom to make the dresses look exactly like they wanted, but still, they were very dependent on big and expensive industrial printers that were located in a lab far from their studio. Later that year, a friend gave me a 3D printed necklace, printed using a home printer. I knew that these printers were much cheaper and much more accessible than the ones we used at my internship. So I looked at the necklace, and then I thought, ""If I can print a necklace from home, why not print my clothes from home, too?"" I really liked the idea that I wouldn't have to go to the market and pick fabrics that someone else chose to sell — I could just design them and print them directly from home. I found a small makerspace, where I learned everything I know about 3D printing. Right away, they literally gave me the key to the lab, so I could experiment into the night, every night. The main challenge was to find the right filament for printing clothes with. So what is a filament? Filament is the material you feed the printer with. And I spent a month or so experimenting with PLA, which is a hard and scratchy, breakable material. The breakthrough came when I was introduced to Filaflex, which is a new kind of filament. It's strong, yet very flexible. And with it, I was able to print the first garment, the red jacket that had the word ""Liberté"" — ""freedom"" in French — embedded into it. I chose this word because I felt so empowered and free when I could just design a garment from my home and then print it by myself. And actually, you can easily download this jacket, and easily change the word to something else. For example, your name or your sweetheart's name. (Laughter) So the printer plates are small, so I had to piece the garment together, just like a puzzle. And I wanted to solve another challenge. I wanted to print textiles that I would use just like regular fabrics. That's when I found an open-source file from an architect who designed a pattern that I love. And with it, I was able to print a beautiful textile that I would use just like a regular fabric. And it actually even looks a little bit like lace. So I took his file and I modified it, and changed it, played with it — many kinds of versions out of it. And I needed to print another 1,500 more hours to complete printing my collection. So I brought six printers to my home and just printed 24-7. And this is actually a really slow process, but let's remember the Internet was significantly slower 20 years ago, so 3D printing will also accelerate and in no time you'll be able to print a T-Shirt in your home in just a couple of hours, or even minutes. So you guys, you want to see what it looks like? Audience: Yeah! (Applause) Danit Peleg: Rebecca is wearing one of my five outfits. Almost everything here she's wearing, I printed from my home. Even her shoes are printed. Audience: Wow! Audience: Cool! (Applause) Danit Peleg: Thank you, Rebecca. (To audience) Thank you, guys. So I think in the future, materials will evolve, and they will look and feel like fabrics we know today, like cotton or silk. Imagine personalized clothes that fit exactly to your measurements. Music was once a very physical thing. You would have to go to the record shop and buy CDs, but now you can just download the music — digital music — directly to your phone. Fashion is also a very physical thing. And I wonder what our world will look like when our clothes will be digital, just like this skirt is. Thank you so much. (Applause) [Thank You] (Applause)"	"在過去幾個月，我都在旅行每次好幾個禮拜，我只帶一箱手提箱的衣服。某天，我受邀出席一個重要活動，我想在活動上穿一些新穎和特別的服飾。所以我翻遍了手提箱，但找不到一件合適的。幸運的是那天被邀請參加是一次科技論壇，由此我接觸到了3D列印機。所以我很快地在我的電腦上設計了一條裙子。然我把它上傳到列印機，讓它整晚列印衣服的部位。隔天早上，我拿到所有部位了，並在酒店房間把它們拼湊起來，而那件裙子，正是我現在穿著的這一件。 ( 掌聲 ) 但這不是我第一次列印服裝。為了完成我在時裝設計學校的高年級服飾作品，我決定在家嘗試用3D 列印所有的時裝設計。問題是，我一點都不懂3D列印。而我只有9個月時間去想如何列印出五件時尚服飾。 我總覺得在家工作時最有靈感。我喜歡實驗新的材質，而且我總是嘗試研發新的技術為我的時尚專案製作最獨特的布料。我喜歡到舊工廠和奇特的商店去尋找殘餘的奇特粉末和奇怪材質，然後把它們帶回家做實驗。所以你大概可以想像，我的室友很不爽.... ( 笑聲 ) 所以我決定搬去跟大型機器一起工作，每一台都大到無法放進我房間。我喜歡所有時尚科技的精密及客製化工作，像是：紡織機、雷射切割、絲綢列印。 某個暑假我來到紐約中國城的一間時尚店實習我們用 3D 列印做了2 件不可思議的禮服。正如你們所看到的，它們非常美妙，但我對它們有一些意見，它們是由硬塑料製成，所以非常的"" 脆裂 ""。模特兒穿上后就不能坐下，模特兒們甚至被手臂下的塑料刮傷。 有了3D列印，設計師有更多自由可以讓禮服變成他們想象中的樣子，但他們仍需仰賴大型且昂貴的列印機器，且機器離他們的工作室很遠。 那年下半年，有一個朋友給我一條3D列印的項鍊，是用家用的列印機列印出來的。我知道這些列印機比較便宜，比起我當實習生時的那幾台更易操作。我盯著項鍊看，然後我在想，"" 如果可以在家裡列印項鍊，那為何不在家列印我的服飾？ ""我真的很喜歡這個想法—我不用去賣場買別人選來賣的布料，只要在家裡設計然後把它們直接列印出來。 我找到一個小型創作者工作室，在這我學到所有3D列印的知識。很快地，他們直接給我實驗室的鑰匙，所以我可以每一個晚上實驗到很晚。 主要的挑戰是，找到正確的"" 絲料 ""印衣服。那甚麼是"" 絲料 ""呢?"" 絲料 ""就是你餵給列印機的材質。我花了一個月的時間用聚乳酸（PLA）來做實驗，它是一種又硬又糙且脆裂的材料。 當我被引薦使用Filaflex後，才有了突破性的發展，Filaflex是一種新型絲料它雖然堅固，但很有彈性。有了它，我就可以列印第一件衣服了，這件紅色夾克名字叫"" Liberté ""是法語"" 自由 ""的意思，我把這個字設計在衣服裡。我選擇這個字的原因是：當我可以在家設計衣服並自己列印出來時我覺的極具自主性及自由性，實際上，你可以很輕易地下載這件夾克，且可以隨意把裡面的字換掉。例如，你自己的名字，或你愛的人的名字 ( 笑聲 ) 列印機的工作平台很小，所以我必須把它們拼湊起來，像在拼圖一樣 而我想解決另一項挑戰。我想列印紡織物。就像我使用一般的布料一樣。這是我在開放資源裡找到的，一個由建築師設計的"" love ""的圖案。有了它我可以列印出漂亮的紡織物，就如同我會使用一般的布料一樣。它實際上看起來更像蕾絲。 所以我拿了他的檔案變更並改良它，我玩出了很多種類的版本。我需要額外的1500小時來列印完成我的作品。所以我買了6台列印機回家，一週24小時不停列印。這實際上是一個很慢的過程，但我們回憶一下20年前網際網路也是相當慢的，所以3D列印也將會加快速度，而在不久的將來你便在家裡列印T-恤了，只需幾小時或是幾分鐘。 所以各位想看看它長甚麼樣子嗎？ 觀眾：想! ( 掌聲 ) Rebecca 正穿著我五件設計的其中之一。她身上穿的服飾都是我在家中列印出來的，甚至她的鞋子。 觀眾：哇 ! 觀眾：酷 ! ( 掌聲 ) 謝謝你，Rebecca( 面向觀眾 )謝謝各位。 所以我認為未來會有很多材質引入，而且它們的觀感和觸感會與現在的那些，棉花或絲綢材質一樣。想像一下一件和你完全貼合的客製化衣服。 音樂曾經是個非常實質的東西，你必須去錄音帶店裡買CD，但現在你可以直接下載數位音樂到你的手機時尚也是個非常實質的東西，而我很好奇，當我們的衣服像這條裙子一樣數位化後...我們的世界將會是怎樣的？ 非常謝謝你們。 ( 掌聲 ) ( 謝謝 ) ( 掌聲 )"
