Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_kahneman_the_riddle_of_experience_vs_memory	"Everybody talks about happiness these days. I had somebody count the number of books with ""happiness"" in the title published in the last five years and they gave up after about 40, and there were many more. There is a huge wave of interest in happiness, among researchers. There is a lot of happiness coaching. Everybody would like to make people happier. But in spite of all this flood of work, there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think straight about happiness. And my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traps. This applies to laypeople thinking about their own happiness, and it applies to scholars thinking about happiness, because it turns out we're just as messed up as anybody else is. The first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity. It turns out that the word ""happiness"" is just not a useful word anymore, because we apply it to too many different things. I think there is one particular meaning to which we might restrict it, but by and large, this is something that we'll have to give up and we'll have to adopt the more complicated view of what well-being is. The second trap is a confusion between experience and memory; basically, it's between being happy in your life, and being happy about your life or happy with your life. And those are two very different concepts, and they're both lumped in the notion of happiness. And the third is the focusing illusion, and it's the unfortunate fact that we can't think about any circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its importance. I mean, this is a real cognitive trap. There's just no way of getting it right. Now, I'd like to start with an example of somebody who had a question-and-answer session after one of my lectures reported a story, and that was a story — He said he'd been listening to a symphony, and it was absolutely glorious music and at the very end of the recording, there was a dreadful screeching sound. And then he added, really quite emotionally, it ruined the whole experience. But it hadn't. What it had ruined were the memories of the experience. He had had the experience. He had had 20 minutes of glorious music. They counted for nothing because he was left with a memory; the memory was ruined, and the memory was all that he had gotten to keep. What this is telling us, really, is that we might be thinking of ourselves and of other people in terms of two selves. There is an experiencing self, who lives in the present and knows the present, is capable of re-living the past, but basically it has only the present. It's the experiencing self that the doctor approaches — you know, when the doctor asks, ""Does it hurt now when I touch you here?"" And then there is a remembering self, and the remembering self is the one that keeps score, and maintains the story of our life, and it's the one that the doctor approaches in asking the question, ""How have you been feeling lately?"" or ""How was your trip to Albania?"" or something like that. Those are two very different entities, the experiencing self and the remembering self, and getting confused between them is part of the mess about the notion of happiness. Now, the remembering self is a storyteller. And that really starts with a basic response of our memories — it starts immediately. We don't only tell stories when we set out to tell stories. Our memory tells us stories, that is, what we get to keep from our experiences is a story. And let me begin with one example. This is an old study. Those are actual patients undergoing a painful procedure. I won't go into detail. It's no longer painful these days, but it was painful when this study was run in the 1990s. They were asked to report on their pain every 60 seconds. Here are two patients, those are their recordings. And you are asked, ""Who of them suffered more?"" And it's a very easy question. Clearly, Patient B suffered more — his colonoscopy was longer, and every minute of pain that Patient A had, Patient B had, and more. But now there is another question: ""How much did these patients think they suffered?"" And here is a surprise. The surprise is that Patient A had a much worse memory of the colonoscopy than Patient B. The stories of the colonoscopies were different, and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends. And neither of these stories is very inspiring or great — but one of them is this distinct ... (Laughter) but one of them is distinctly worse than the other. And the one that is worse is the one where pain was at its peak at the very end; it's a bad story. How do we know that? Because we asked these people after their colonoscopy, and much later, too, ""How bad was the whole thing, in total?"" And it was much worse for A than for B, in memory. Now this is a direct conflict between the experiencing self and the remembering self. From the point of view of the experiencing self, clearly, B had a worse time. Now, what you could do with Patient A, and we actually ran clinical experiments, and it has been done, and it does work — you could actually extend the colonoscopy of Patient A by just keeping the tube in without jiggling it too much. That will cause the patient to suffer, but just a little and much less than before. And if you do that for a couple of minutes, you have made the experiencing self of Patient A worse off, and you have the remembering self of Patient A a lot better off, because now you have endowed Patient A with a better story about his experience. What defines a story? And that is true of the stories that memory delivers for us, and it's also true of the stories that we make up. What defines a story are changes, significant moments and endings. Endings are very, very important and, in this case, the ending dominated. Now, the experiencing self lives its life continuously. It has moments of experience, one after the other. And you can ask: What happens to these moments? And the answer is really straightforward: They are lost forever. I mean, most of the moments of our life — and I calculated, you know, the psychological present is said to be about three seconds long; that means that, you know, in a life there are about 600 million of them; in a month, there are about 600,000 — most of them don't leave a trace. Most of them are completely ignored by the remembering self. And yet, somehow you get the sense that they should count, that what happens during these moments of experience is our life. It's the finite resource that we're spending while we're on this earth. And how to spend it would seem to be relevant, but that is not the story that the remembering self keeps for us. So we have the remembering self and the experiencing self, and they're really quite distinct. The biggest difference between them is in the handling of time. From the point of view of the experiencing self, if you have a vacation, and the second week is just as good as the first, then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation. That's not the way it works at all for the remembering self. For the remembering self, a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation because there are no new memories added. You have not changed the story. And in this way, time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a remembering self from an experiencing self; time has very little impact on the story. Now, the remembering self does more than remember and tell stories. It is actually the one that makes decisions because, if you have a patient who has had, say, two colonoscopies with two different surgeons and is deciding which of them to choose, then the one that chooses is the one that has the memory that is less bad, and that's the surgeon that will be chosen. The experiencing self has no voice in this choice. We actually don't choose between experiences, we choose between memories of experiences. And even when we think about the future, we don't think of our future normally as experiences. We think of our future as anticipated memories. And basically you can look at this, you know, as a tyranny of the remembering self, and you can think of the remembering self sort of dragging the experiencing self through experiences that the experiencing self doesn't need. I have that sense that when we go on vacations this is very frequently the case; that is, we go on vacations, to a very large extent, in the service of our remembering self. And this is a bit hard to justify I think. I mean, how much do we consume our memories? That is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of the remembering self. And when I think about that, I think about a vacation we had in Antarctica a few years ago, which was clearly the best vacation I've ever had, and I think of it relatively often, relative to how much I think of other vacations. And I probably have consumed my memories of that three-week trip, I would say, for about 25 minutes in the last four years. Now, if I had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it, I would have spent another hour. Now, that is three weeks, and that is at most an hour and a half. There seems to be a discrepancy. Now, I may be a bit extreme, you know, in how little appetite I have for consuming memories, but even if you do more of this, there is a genuine question: Why do we put so much weight on memory relative to the weight that we put on experiences? So I want you to think about a thought experiment. Imagine that for your next vacation, you know that at the end of the vacation all your pictures will be destroyed, and you'll get an amnesic drug so that you won't remember anything. Now, would you choose the same vacation? (Laughter) And if you would choose a different vacation, there is a conflict between your two selves, and you need to think about how to adjudicate that conflict, and it's actually not at all obvious, because if you think in terms of time, then you get one answer, and if you think in terms of memories, you might get another answer. Why do we pick the vacations we do is a problem that confronts us with a choice between the two selves. Now, the two selves bring up two notions of happiness. There are really two concepts of happiness that we can apply, one per self. So you can ask: How happy is the experiencing self? And then you would ask: How happy are the moments in the experiencing self's life? And they're all — happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process. What are the emotions that can be measured? And, by the way, now we are capable of getting a pretty good idea of the happiness of the experiencing self over time. If you ask for the happiness of the remembering self, it's a completely different thing. This is not about how happily a person lives. It is about how satisfied or pleased the person is when that person thinks about her life. Very different notion. Anyone who doesn't distinguish those notions is going to mess up the study of happiness, and I belong to a crowd of students of well-being, who've been messing up the study of happiness for a long time in precisely this way. The distinction between the happiness of the experiencing self and the satisfaction of the remembering self has been recognized in recent years, and there are now efforts to measure the two separately. The Gallup Organization has a world poll where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think of their life and about their experiences, and there have been other efforts along those lines. So in recent years, we have begun to learn about the happiness of the two selves. And the main lesson I think that we have learned is they are really different. You can know how satisfied somebody is with their life, and that really doesn't teach you much about how happily they're living their life, and vice versa. Just to give you a sense of the correlation, the correlation is about .5. What that means is if you met somebody, and you were told, ""Oh his father is six feet tall,"" how much would you know about his height? Well, you would know something about his height, but there's a lot of uncertainty. You have that much uncertainty. If I tell you that somebody ranked their life eight on a scale of ten, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their experiencing self. So the correlation is low. We know something about what controls satisfaction of the happiness self. We know that money is very important, goals are very important. We know that happiness is mainly being satisfied with people that we like, spending time with people that we like. There are other pleasures, but this is dominant. So if you want to maximize the happiness of the two selves, you are going to end up doing very different things. The bottom line of what I've said here is that we really should not think of happiness as a substitute for well-being. It is a completely different notion. Now, very quickly, another reason we cannot think straight about happiness is that we do not attend to the same things when we think about life, and we actually live. So, if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in California, you are not going to get to the correct answer. When you ask that question, you think people must be happier in California if, say, you live in Ohio. (Laughter) And what happens is when you think about living in California, you are thinking of the contrast between California and other places, and that contrast, say, is in climate. Well, it turns out that climate is not very important to the experiencing self and it's not even very important to the reflective self that decides how happy people are. But now, because the reflective self is in charge, you may end up — some people may end up moving to California. And it's sort of interesting to trace what is going to happen to people who move to California in the hope of getting happier. Well, their experiencing self is not going to get happier. We know that. But one thing will happen: They will think they are happier, because, when they think about it, they'll be reminded of how horrible the weather was in Ohio, and they will feel they made the right decision. It is very difficult to think straight about well-being, and I hope I have given you a sense of how difficult it is. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you. I've got a question for you. Thank you so much. Now, when we were on the phone a few weeks ago, you mentioned to me that there was quite an interesting result came out of that Gallup survey. Is that something you can share since you do have a few moments left now? Daniel Kahneman: Sure. I think the most interesting result that we found in the Gallup survey is a number, which we absolutely did not expect to find. We found that with respect to the happiness of the experiencing self. When we looked at how feelings, vary with income. And it turns out that, below an income of 60,000 dollars a year, for Americans — and that's a very large sample of Americans, like 600,000, so it's a large representative sample — below an income of 600,000 dollars a year... CA: 60,000. DK: 60,000. (Laughter) 60,000 dollars a year, people are unhappy, and they get progressively unhappier the poorer they get. Above that, we get an absolutely flat line. I mean I've rarely seen lines so flat. Clearly, what is happening is money does not buy you experiential happiness, but lack of money certainly buys you misery, and we can measure that misery very, very clearly. In terms of the other self, the remembering self, you get a different story. The more money you earn, the more satisfied you are. That does not hold for emotions. CA: But Danny, the whole American endeavor is about life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. If people took seriously that finding, I mean, it seems to turn upside down everything we believe about, like for example, taxation policy and so forth. Is there any chance that politicians, that the country generally, would take a finding like that seriously and run public policy based on it? DK: You know I think that there is recognition of the role of happiness research in public policy. The recognition is going to be slow in the United States, no question about that, but in the U.K., it is happening, and in other countries it is happening. People are recognizing that they ought to be thinking of happiness when they think of public policy. It's going to take a while, and people are going to debate whether they want to study experience happiness, or whether they want to study life evaluation, so we need to have that debate fairly soon. How to enhance happiness goes very different ways depending on how you think, and whether you think of the remembering self or you think of the experiencing self. This is going to influence policy, I think, in years to come. In the United States, efforts are being made to measure the experience happiness of the population. This is going to be, I think, within the next decade or two, part of national statistics. CA: Well, it seems to me that this issue will — or at least should be — the most interesting policy discussion to track over the next few years. Thank you so much for inventing behavioral economics. Thank you, Danny Kahneman."	"最近大家都在談論快樂我請人數了有多少本書在近五年來出版書名有提到""快樂""他們數到大約超過40本,並且還有更多越來越多人對快樂的議題感到有興趣展開研究其中更多訓練教導人如何變快樂人人都想讓人更快樂雖這類書籍多如牛毛仍有些認知上的陷阱讓人幾乎難以直接領會快樂的本質 我今天主要談論的就是這些認知陷阱它們既會影響一般人對自身快樂的觀感也會影響學者對快樂的判斷因為我們和任何人一樣都會出錯第一個陷阱是不願去承認快樂並不簡單事實證明快樂這個詞已經再也不實用了因為我們拿它來詮釋太多事情我想我們應該限定它的意思不過,一般而言我們得放棄這個想法並用更複雜的觀點來看何謂快樂生活第二個陷阱是經驗和記憶間的混淆基本上這是在生活中體會快樂和覺得生活很快樂樂觀生活之間的差別這兩者意義相差甚遠論及快樂常混為一談第三點是大事幻覺論不幸,當我們想到一些關於快樂生活的情境勢必會覺得它特別重要這是真正的認知陷阱避無可避 現在,我想以一個例子開頭有個人上過我的課後在Q&A回應了一則故事這個故事是這樣的他說他有次在聽交響樂時覺得音樂真是動聽極了但在演奏快結束時卻冒出了可怕刺耳的聲音接著他生氣地表示這毀了整個愉快的經驗事實並非如此毀了的是對於這段經驗的記憶他經歷了這段經驗經歷了20分鐘的聽覺饗宴現在都不算數了因為他只剩下記憶有污點的記憶他就只剩下這段記憶 這告訴我們我們在思考自己和別人時用了兩種我經驗的我活在當下感受當下也能感受過去的經驗但基本上他只屬於當下當醫生要接觸的是經驗的我他會問""我碰你這裡會痛嗎?""另一個是記憶的我負責記錄生活抒寫生活故事醫生要找他時會這麼問""最近感覺如何?""或""去阿爾巴尼亞好玩嗎"",類似的問題經驗的我和記憶的我兩者十分不同我們之所以不懂快樂兩者的混淆是部分原因 記憶的我負責說故事故事從記憶中直接擷取即時上傳我們講故事的時候並不是我們在講是我們的記憶在說故事我們從經驗中儲存下來的是故事讓我用一個例子開頭以前有個研究由真正的病人接受痛苦的治療細節不多說,現今的療法已不再難受但在實驗進行的90年代,治療令人痛不欲生病人必須每分鐘報告痛苦指數這邊有兩個病患還有他們的紀錄我問你,""誰受苦多一點?""這問題很簡單顯然,是病人B他的結腸鏡檢查時間較長病人A每分鐘感覺的疼痛病人B也感覺到了,而且更久 但現在有另一個問題""誰感覺比較痛?""這裡有個小意外意外的是病人A對於結腸鏡檢查的記憶比病人B還糟糕兩段結腸鏡檢查的故事不同重點在於故事的結尾兩個故事都不怎麼啟發人心不過其中之一顯然感受比另一個還差感覺較糟的這一個結尾時處於疼痛高峰這不是個好故事我們怎知道的?因為我們在檢查結束後問他們稍晚之後問說""整體而言,感覺多糟?""而A的記憶感覺比B糟糕許多 顯然經驗的我和記憶的我之間有了直接衝突就經驗的我來看顯然B比較難受那病人A的情況該怎麼解釋我們實際做了臨床實驗實驗完成了,確實有用病人A的檢查結果能得到解釋在於持續插入導管時不晃動得太厲害雖然病人還是會痛但只有一點點比先前好受許多繼續這樣做,幾分鐘下來病人A的經驗的我感覺每況愈下而病人A記憶的我感覺好多了因為你給了病人A一個好一點的故事記憶他的經驗故事好壞由什麼決定?記憶告訴我們的故事是真實的我們講的故事也是真的故事好壞取決於變化重要時刻和結尾的變化結尾非常重要上面的例子是結尾由主導 經驗的我延續這個生活經驗擁有各種時刻的經驗,一個接一個你會問""這些時刻怎麼了?""答案很簡單他們永遠消失了我們生活中大多數時刻我算了算,以心理學上的現在而言據說長達三秒這表示一個人一生中有大約6億個時刻一個月有60萬個時刻它們大多數不留痕跡大多數被全然忽視了被記憶的我忽視但是現在你發現他們應該也算數因為我們經驗的每分每秒發生的一切組成了我們的人生他們是我們活在地球上就會消耗的有限資源該如何使用似乎很重要但這不是故事也不是記憶的我會留給我們的 我們有記憶的我和經驗的我兩者很好區別其中最大的不同在於處理時間的方式就經驗的我而言如果你有一個假期第二週和第一週同等快樂那麼兩週下來快樂的份量是一週假期的兩倍記憶的我不是這樣算對記憶的我來說,兩週假期沒有比一週假期好多少因為沒有新的記憶加入你沒有改變故事的劇情因此以時間長短區分記憶的我和經驗的我是不可靠的時間對故事影響不大 記憶的我所做的不只記憶和說故事他也是真正做決定的人因為,假如你的病人有選擇權先由兩個醫生分別檢查一次然後選擇醫生負責選擇的會選擇感覺較好的記憶中執行檢查的醫生經驗的我做選擇時無從置喙我們事實上不是在兩段經驗中做選擇而是在兩段經驗的記憶中選擇而且,當我們在想未來的時候一般我們不會以經驗的形式去思考我們把未來以預想的記憶形式呈現基本上你可以看這個記憶的我是個暴君你可以把記憶的我想成有點像是在跩著經驗的我透過經驗的我用不著的經驗主宰個人的思考 我有個想法當我們放假時往往之所以放假有很大一部分是為了記憶的我我想這有點難辯證我們使用了多少記憶可以解釋記憶的我為何能主導這讓我想起一次假期幾年前在南極度過的假期可說是我最棒的一個假期和其他假期相比我比較常想起他這趟三周的旅程我大概用掉了過去四年來大約25分鐘的記憶量現在,如果我打開資料夾裡面有600張照片我可能要多花一小時回憶三周的旅程最多用一個半小時回憶這似乎不成比例現在,這讓我有點不滿因為我記得的真是太少了不過就算你記得再多這裡有個實際的問題為什麼我們這麼依賴記憶比依賴經驗還多 所以我希望你能思考一個有關思考的實驗想像你的下次假期你知道假期結束後你的所有照片會被銷毀你將吞下一顆遺忘藥所以你什麼都不會記得這樣,你還會想過同樣的假期嗎?如果你選了個不同的假期你的兩個我之間將產生衝突你得想辦法裁決這衝突這不怎麼容易因為若你考慮到時間你會選不同的假期但若你考量到記憶你可能會選相同的假期我們為什麼選此而非彼所要面對的問題是在兩個我之間作選擇 現在,這兩個我帶來兩種對快樂的見解這兩套見解分別對應了兩個我因此你會問""經驗的我有多快樂?""接著問,經驗的我每一刻有多快樂?所有這些快樂的時刻組成過程相當複雜情感該如何測量?順帶一提,我們現在對於經驗的我隨著時間感受快樂已經有了概念而記憶的我所指的快樂概念完全不同這不是一個人生活多快樂的問題而是他對於自己的人生多滿意,多喜歡見解南轅北轍若不能分辨這兩項見解就參不透快樂這門學問我和其他活得好的學生一樣一直以來參不透快樂就是這個原因 近年來經驗的我的快樂和記憶的我的滿足之間的差別已能分清目前正努力要分別測量兩者的程度蓋洛普在世界各地做民調其中超過50萬人曾被問到一些問題看他們如何看待自己的生活以及他們如何看待經驗這些問題外,也做了不少調查所以近年來,我們逐漸得知兩個我個別的快樂而我們主要學到的便是兩者真的很不一樣你可以知道一個人對生活是否滿意但這並不能告訴你他們平常活得多快樂反之亦然只是要讓你對其中的關聯有概念關聯約有五點意思是當你見到某個人並被告知他爸爸六呎高你能知道他有多高嗎?好吧,你可能有個概念但非常不確定你沒法篤定若我說有人10分裡給自己的生活8分你不能把握他們經驗的我有多快樂所以關聯性很低 我們知道什麼能夠讓人的快樂得到滿足我們知道錢很重要目標非常重要我們知道要滿足快樂主要是由我們喜愛的人和他們在一起的時間來感受雖然有其他的原因,但這是最主要的所以若你想讓兩個我都超快樂你必須拋開過去的方式做一些很不同的事情我說的是,至少我們不應該把快樂當作活得好的代名詞兩個完全不一樣 現在,很快地另個我們不能理解快樂本質的原因在於我們所指不同怎麼看生活,和實際怎麼過生活不一樣所以當你問加州的人有多快樂你將得不到正確答案因為當你這麼問時你認為住加州一定比較快樂剛好,你住在俄亥俄洲(笑聲)當你在想住在加州有多快樂時你會想到加州和其他地方的差異差異,其實是氣候的不同這也證明氣候條件對於經驗的我並不很重要事實上對衡量人有多快樂也不太重要不過,既然現在是由思考主導一些人可能會得到一個結論就是搬到加州追蹤為了更快樂而搬去加州的人觀看他們的後續發展,相當有趣他們的經驗的我不會變得比較快樂這我們都知道不過一件事發生了,他們覺得自己快樂多了.因為在他們思考時他們會想到俄亥俄州的壞天氣並覺得自己做了正確的決定 要理解快樂生活實在很難我希望已經讓你們有點概念明白這到底有多難 謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝你的演說,我有問題想請教你真的很感謝你我們幾星期前在電話裡你提過蓋洛普的調查中有個有趣的發現現在你可以跟我們分享一下嗎還有幾分鐘 好的我想蓋洛普調查的發現,最有趣的是個數字,能發現它實屬意外我們發現關於經驗我的快樂有個現象就是人的感覺會隨收入而不同結果發現,對美國人而言年收入低於6萬美元的人佔了樣本中很大一部份,約60萬但這些年收入低於60萬美元的樣本相當具有指標性 是6萬美元 6萬美元(笑聲)年收入6萬美元的人不快樂而且越窮的人數據顯示越不快樂6萬以上,我們得到一條水平線難得看到這麼平坦的線顯然金錢買不了經驗的快樂但沒錢除了悲慘什麼都買不到而悲慘的程度差別顯而易見就另一個我,記憶的我而言你有了不一樣的故事你賺得越多就越滿意跟情感沒有關係 可是丹尼,所有美國人奮鬥的目標是生命,自由和追求幸福的權利如果大家認真看待這項發現似乎就顛覆了我們相信的一切好比課稅政策等政治人物,國家有沒有可能正視這樣的發現依此施政 我想快樂研究在政策中所扮演的角色這項認知在美國散播速度緩慢無庸置疑但在英國,他正持續發酵在其他國家也是一般人開始認知到他們應該在思考政策時同時將快樂納入考量這要花些時間人民將開始思考他們要的是經驗的快樂或是要為生活打分數因此很快,我們將要理解這個問題如何增進快樂有各種不同方式,事關你怎麼想想的是記憶的我還是經驗的我我想幾年之內,這將影響政策美國內付出許多努力來衡量大眾經驗的快樂我想,十年到二十年內這將列為國內統計數據的一部份 這個議題對我來說似乎至少是幾年內最有趣的政策討論議題感謝你創造了行為經濟學感謝丹尼爾卡內曼"
