Talk	en	zh-tw
daniel_h_cohen_for_argument_s_sake	"My name is Dan Cohen and I am an academic, as he said. And what that means is that I argue. It's an important part of my life. And I like to argue. And I'm not just an academic, I'm a philosopher, so I like to think that I'm actually pretty good at arguing. But I also like to think a lot about arguing. And in thinking about arguing, I've come across some puzzles. And one of the puzzles is that, as I've been thinking about arguing over the years — and it's been decades now — I've gotten better at arguing. But the more that I argue and the better I get at arguing, the more that I lose. And that's a puzzle. And the other puzzle is that I'm actually okay with that. Why is it that I'm okay with losing and why is it that I think good arguers are actually better at losing? Well, there are some other puzzles. One is: why do we argue? Who benefits from arguments? When I think about arguments, I'm talking about — let's call them academic arguments or cognitive arguments — where something cognitive is at stake: Is this proposition true? Is this theory a good theory? Is this a viable interpretation of the data or the text? And so on. I'm not interested really in arguments about whose turn it is to do the dishes or who has to take out the garbage. Yeah, we have those arguments, too. I tend to win those arguments, because I know the tricks. But those aren't the important arguments. I'm interested in academic arguments, and here are the things that puzzle me. First, what do good arguers win when they win an argument? What do I win if I convince you that utilitarianism isn't really the right framework for thinking about ethical theories? What do we win when we win an argument? Even before that, what does it matter to me whether you have this idea that Kant's theory works or Mill is the right ethicist to follow? It's no skin off my back whether you think functionalism is a viable theory of mind. So why do we even try to argue? Why do we try to convince other people to believe things they don't want to believe, and is that even a nice thing to do? Is that a nice way to treat another human being, try and make them think something they don't want to think? Well, my answer is going to make reference to three models for arguments. The first model — let's call it the dialectical model — is we think of arguments as war; you know what that's like — a lot of screaming and shouting and winning and losing. That's not a very helpful model for arguing, but it's a pretty common and entrenched model for arguing. But there's a second model for arguing: arguments as proofs. Think of a mathematician's argument. Here's my argument. Does it work? Is it any good? Are the premises warranted? Are the inferences valid? Does the conclusion follow from the premises? No opposition, no adversariality — not necessarily any arguing in the adversarial sense. But there's a third model to keep in mind that I think is going to be very helpful, and that is arguments as performances, arguments in front of an audience. We can think of a politician trying to present a position, trying to convince the audience of something. But there's another twist on this model that I really think is important; namely, that when we argue before an audience, sometimes the audience has a more participatory role in the argument; that is, arguments are also [performances] in front of juries, who make a judgment and decide the case. Let's call this the rhetorical model, where you have to tailor your argument to the audience at hand. You know, presenting a sound, well-argued, tight argument in English before a francophone audience just isn't going to work. So we have these models — argument as war, argument as proof and argument as performance. Of those three, the argument as war is the dominant one. It dominates how we talk about arguments, it dominates how we think about arguments, and because of that, it shapes how we argue, our actual conduct in arguments. Now, when we talk about arguments, we talk in a very militaristic language. We want strong arguments, arguments that have a lot of punch, arguments that are right on target. We want to have our defenses up and our strategies all in order. We want killer arguments. That's the kind of argument we want. It is the dominant way of thinking about arguments. When I'm talking about arguments, that's probably what you thought of, the adversarial model. But the war metaphor, the war paradigm or model for thinking about arguments, has, I think, deforming effects on how we argue. First, it elevates tactics over substance. You can take a class in logic, argumentation. You learn all about the subterfuges that people use to try and win arguments — the false steps. It magnifies the us-versus them aspect of it. It makes it adversarial; it's polarizing. And the only foreseeable outcomes are triumph — glorious triumph — or abject, ignominious defeat. I think those are deforming effects, and worst of all, it seems to prevent things like negotiation or deliberation or compromise or collaboration. Think about that one — have you ever entered an argument thinking, ""Let's see if we can hash something out, rather than fight it out. What can we work out together?"" I think the argument-as-war metaphor inhibits those other kinds of resolutions to argumentation. And finally — this is really the worst thing — arguments don't seem to get us anywhere; they're dead ends. They are like roundabouts or traffic jams or gridlock in conversation. We don't get anywhere. And one more thing. And as an educator, this is the one that really bothers me: If argument is war, then there's an implicit equation of learning with losing. And let me explain what I mean. Suppose you and I have an argument. You believe a proposition, P, and I don't. And I say, ""Well, why do you believe P?"" And you give me your reasons. And I object and say, ""Well, what about ...?"" And you answer my objection. And I have a question: ""Well, what do you mean? How does it apply over here?"" And you answer my question. Now, suppose at the end of the day, I've objected, I've questioned, I've raised all sorts of counter counter-considerations and in every case you've responded to my satisfaction. And so at the end of the day, I say, ""You know what? I guess you're right: P."" So, I have a new belief. And it's not just any belief; it's well-articulated, examined — it's a battle-tested belief. Great cognitive gain. OK, who won that argument? Well, the war metaphor seems to force us into saying you won, even though I'm the only one who made any cognitive gain. What did you gain, cognitively, from convincing me? Sure, you got some pleasure out of it, maybe your ego stroked, maybe you get some professional status in the field — ""This guy's a good arguer."" But just from a cognitive point of view, who was the winner? The war metaphor forces us into thinking that you're the winner and I lost, even though I gained. And there's something wrong with that picture. And that's the picture I really want to change if we can. So, how can we find ways to make arguments yield something positive? What we need is new exit strategies for arguments. But we're not going to have new exit strategies for arguments until we have new entry approaches to arguments. We need to think of new kinds of arguments. In order to do that, well — I don't know how to do that. That's the bad news. The argument-as-war metaphor is just ... it's a monster. It's just taken up habitation in our mind, and there's no magic bullet that's going to kill it. There's no magic wand that's going to make it disappear. I don't have an answer. But I have some suggestions. Here's my suggestion: If we want to think of new kinds of arguments, what we need to do is think of new kinds of arguers. So try this: Think of all the roles that people play in arguments. There's the proponent and the opponent in an adversarial, dialectical argument. There's the audience in rhetorical arguments. There's the reasoner in arguments as proofs. All these different roles. Now, can you imagine an argument in which you are the arguer, but you're also in the audience, watching yourself argue? Can you imagine yourself watching yourself argue, losing the argument, and yet still, at the end of the argument, saying, ""Wow, that was a good argument!"" Can you do that? I think you can, and I think if you can imagine that kind of argument, where the loser says to the winner and the audience and the jury can say, ""Yeah, that was a good argument,"" then you have imagined a good argument. And more than that, I think you've imagined a good arguer, an arguer that's worthy of the kind of arguer you should try to be. Now, I lose a lot of arguments. It takes practice to become a good arguer, in the sense of being able to benefit from losing, but fortunately, I've had many, many colleagues who have been willing to step up and provide that practice for me. Thank you. (Applause)"	我叫丹‧柯恩，像剛剛那人說的，我是個學者這也就意味著我經常辯論辯論是我人生重要的一部分，我喜歡辯論我不只是個學者，我也是個哲學家我常常覺得，我應該很擅長辯論我也喜歡思考辯論 在這過程中，我遇到了一些困惑其中有個是過去這幾年，我一直思考辯論到現在已經幾十年了我也是越來越擅長辯論了但我辯論得越多，辯論得越好我也就輸得越多，這是我的困惑另一個困惑是，我覺得這無所謂為什麼我覺得輸會無所謂為什麼我又覺得，好的辯論者應該是更好的輸家？ 嗯……還有其他一些困惑其中一個是，我們為何辯論？辯論使誰獲益？我現在思考辯論時所指的就把它們稱為學術辯論或認知辯論涉及認知利害關係的這項提議是對的嗎？這是好的理論嗎？如此解釋這項數據或文本，是可行的嗎？諸如此類。我對於辯論某些事情就沒什麼興趣像是誰要去洗碗、誰要去倒垃圾雖然我們也會辯論那些事情這些辯論我滿常贏的，因為我知道技巧但這些不是很重要的辯論我的興趣在於現今的學術辯論下面這些事情給我帶了不少困惑 第一，辯論高手們贏得辯論時到底贏得了什麼？如果我說服你功利主義並不是思考道德理論的正確方向，我獲得了什麼？所以當我們贏得辯論時，我們到底贏了什麼？甚至在辯論之前，無論你是支持康德或是密爾覺得誰才是對的道德主義者又和我有什麼關係？無論你認為功能主義是否為可行的心智理論也是和我沒關係那我們到底為什麼要辯論？為什麼我們要去說服他人去相信他們不願相信的事物這麼做真的好嗎？這真的是一種對待他人的好方法嗎？設法讓他們相信他們不願相信的事物？ 我的答案將會談到三種辯論模式第一，我們就叫它為對話模式這種模式，雙方把辯論看成戰爭，情況可想而知雙方會吵鬧，大叫也會有輸贏就辯論而言，這真的不是個有幫助的模式但這種模式卻是很常見，也很強硬的一種模式 還有第二種模式，論證式辯論想想一個數學家的辯論這是我的論點，講得通嗎？有道理嗎？假設可靠嗎？參考數據可信嗎？結論是否與假設呼應？沒有反對，沒有對手不一定有持反對意見的辯論 還有第三種模式要注意我覺得這是很有幫助的一種就是做為表演的辯論在一群觀眾面前辯論想像一個政治人物，試著表明他的立場要說服觀眾相信某件事情這個模式中，還有個小轉折我覺得很重要換言之，當我們在觀眾前辯論時觀眾在此過程中擔任更有參與性角色在觀眾前辯論，也就是在陪審團前辯論他們下判決，決定案情結果我們稱之為修辭模式因為你要修改論點去迎合現場觀眾比如在說法語的觀眾面前發表一個有力的論點是沒有用的所以我們有三種模式分別為－戰爭式辯論論證式辯論和表演性辯論 這三者中，戰爭式辯論一直都是比較強勢的它影響著我們談論辯論的方式影響著我們思考辯論的方式因為如此，它也塑造我們辯論的方式我們在辯論中的言行舉止 現在，當我們談及辯論我們都用很強烈的語氣我們想要站得住腳的論點，有力反擊的論點正中要害的論點我們想要加強防守，穩固進攻策略我們想要場殺手級的論點這就是我們所想要的這是看待辯論的主流方式當我和別人談起辯論時你大概都會想到這種辯論但是，這種戰爭比喻這種戰爭式思考方式就我認為，扭曲了我們的辯論效果 首先，戰爭辯論注重策略而非主旨你可以修一堂邏輯課、辯論課你會學到所有人們用來贏得辯論的技巧避免出現錯誤這加強了他我敵對的意味讓雙方關係成為敵我關係，產生極端而唯一能預見的結果就是輝煌的勝利或是可恥的失敗這些是扭曲的結果，最糟的是這讓協商、審議以及妥協這類情況不會發生甚至都無法合作試想一下，你有沒有參與過一場辯論心中想著「讓我們看看有沒有辦法好好討論一下」「而不是想著辯倒對方。」我認為戰爭辯論所代表的是它遏止了解決問題的其他方法最後，這是最糟的情況辯論最後沒有帶給我們任何東西像死胡同，原地打轉一樣像塞車，談話遇到僵局一樣我們什麼都沒得到 身為一個教育家，還有一件事情真正困擾我的事情是：如果辯論就是戰爭，也就不會有輸了辯論，學了東西這種事情我再解釋一下我的意思假設你和我在辯論你支持 P 提案，我不支持我問「為什麼你支持 P 提案？」然後你告訴我你支持的理由我反問「那為什麼....？」然後你對我的辯解做出回應我又問你「那你說的是什麼意思呢？」「這怎麼用在這裡呢？」你仍舊回答我的問題假設到了最後我反對過了，我提問過了我提出了所有的反向思考而你對我的任何提問都給出了滿意的答案最後我會說我說「你知道嗎？我想你是對的。」然後我相信了一個新理論，不是什麽隨便的理論是一個條理分明，經過仔細推敲經得起考驗的理論 認知方面又多了新知，那到底誰贏了辯論？所以，戰爭辯論的言下之意是告訴我們雖然你贏了，但我是唯一有獲得新知的人從你說服我的過程中，你得到了什麼嗎？當然，你獲得快樂，你的自尊心可能更強烈在那領域你可能又多了點學術地位這傢伙很擅長辯論但是，就從認知角度而言，誰是贏家？戰爭辯論的比喻使得我們認為你是贏家，我是輸家儘管我有學到東西但是這樣不對如果我們有辦法，這正是我想改變的 那麼我們要怎樣來辯論能得到些正向的東西我們要的，是一個能有後台下的辯論策略但我們是找不到的除非我們有了新的途徑去辯論我們要想出新的辯論類型為了達到這目標恩，我不知道該怎麼做這不是個好消息戰爭式辯論太可怕了它會充斥我們的思維沒有魔法子彈能夠消滅它沒有魔法棒來讓它消失我沒有答案但我有些建議我的建議如下 如果要想出新的辯論類型我們就需要想出新類別的辯論者這麼說吧想想人們在辯論中扮演的所有角色有支持方以及反對方存在一個對立、辯證的辯論中在修辭辯論中，存在著觀眾在論證辯論中，存在著推理的人這些不同的角色中，你能否想像有一場辯論你同時是辯論者，也是觀眾看著你自己在辯論呢？你能否想像當你看著自己在辯論時就算輸了，在辯論結束後你仍說「這真是一場好棒的辯論。」你可以做到嗎？我想你可以我認為，如果你能想像這樣的辯論輸掉的一方能對贏的人觀眾以及陪審團說「對阿，這是一場很棒的辯論。」那你所想的就是場好的辯論此外，我認為你也可以想像一位好的辯論者一個值得你效法的辯論者 我輸過很多次辯論成為一位好的辯論者需要練習也就是能從失敗中學到東西幸運的是，我有太多，太多的同事他們都願意挺我，為我提供練習機會 謝謝 （掌聲）
