Talk	en	zh-tw
danny_dorling_maps_that_show_us_who_we_are_not_just_where_we_are	"I'd like you to imagine the world anew. I'd like to show you some maps, which have been drawn by Ben Hennig, of the planet in a way that most of you will never have seen the planet depicted before. Here's an image that you're very familiar with. I'm old enough that I was actually born before we saw this image. Apparently some of my first words were ""moona, moona,"" but I think that's my mom having a particular fantasy about what her baby boy could see on the flickering black and white TV screen. It's only been a few centuries since we've actually, most of us, thought of our planet as spherical. When we first saw these images in the 1960s, the world was changing at an incredible rate. In my own little discipline of human geography, a cartographer called Waldo Tobler was drawing new maps of the planet, and these maps have now spread, and I'm going to show you one of them now. This map is a map of the world, but it's a map which looks to you a little bit strange. It's a map in which we stretched places, so that those areas which contain many people are drawn larger, and those areas, like the Sahara and the Himalayas, in which there are few people, have been shrunk away. Everybody on the planet is given an equal amount of space. The cities are shown shining bright. The lines are showing you submarine cables and trade routes. And there's one particular line that goes from the Chinese port of Dalian through past Singapore, through the Suez Canal, through the Mediterranean and round to Rotterdam. And it's showing you the route of what was the world's largest ship just a year ago, a ship which was taking so many containers of goods that when they were unloaded, if the lorries had all gone in convoy, they would have been 100 kilometers long. This is how our world is now connected. This is the quantity of stuff we are now moving around the world, just on one ship, on one voyage, in five weeks. We've lived in cities for a very long time, but most of us didn't live in cities. This is Çatalhöyük, one of the world's first cities. At its peak 9,000 years ago, people had to walk over the roofs of others' houses to get to their home. If you look carefully at the map of the city, you'll see it has no streets, because streets are something we invented. The world changes. It changes by trial and error. We work out slowly and gradually how to live in better ways. And the world has changed incredibly quickly most recently. It's only within the last six, seven, or eight generations that we have actually realized that we are a species. It's only within the last few decades that a map like this could be drawn. Again, the underlying map is the map of world population, but over it, you're seeing arrows showing how we spread out of Africa with dates showing you where we think we arrived at particular times. I have to redraw this map every few months, because somebody makes a discovery that a particular date was wrong. We are learning about ourselves at an incredible speed. And we're changing. A lot of change is gradual. It's accretion. We don't notice the change because we only have short lives, 70, 80, if you're lucky 90 years. This graph is showing you the annual rate of population growth in the world. It was very low until around about 1850, and then the rate of population growth began to rise so that around the time I was born, when we first saw those images from the moon of our planet, our global population was growing at two percent a year. If it had carried on growing at two percent a year for just another couple of centuries, the entire planet would be covered with a seething mass of human bodies all touching each other. And people were scared. They were scared of population growth and what they called ""the population bomb"" in 1968. But then, if you look at the end of the graph, the growth began to slow. The decade — the '70s, the '80s, the '90s, the noughties, and in this decade, even faster — our population growth is slowing. Our planet is stabilizing. We are heading towards nine, 10, or 11 billion people by the end of the century. Within that change, you can see tumult. You can see the Second World War. You can see the pandemic in 1918 from influenza. You can see the great Chinese famine. These are the events we tend to concentrate on. We tend to concentrate on the terrible events in the news. We don't tend to concentrate on the gradual change and the good news stories. We worry about people. We worry about how many people there are. We worry about how you can get away from people. But this is the map of the world changed again to make area large, the further away people are from each area. So if you want to know where to go to get away from everybody, here's the best places to go. And every year, these areas get bigger, because every year, we are coming off the land globally. We are moving into the cities. We are packing in more densely. There are wolves again in Europe, and the wolves are moving west across the continent. Our world is changing. You have worries. This is a map showing where the water falls on our planet. We now know that. And you can look at where Çatalhöyük was, where three continents meet, Africa, Asia, and Europe, and you can see there are a large number of people living there in areas with very little water. And you can see areas in which there is a great deal of rainfall as well. And we can get a bit more sophisticated. Instead of making the map be shaped by people, we can shape the map by water, and then we can change it every month to show the amount of water falling on every small part of the globe. And you see the monsoons moving around the planet, and the planet almost appears to have a heartbeat. And all of this only became possible within my lifetime to see this is where we are living. We have enough water. This is a map of where we grow our food in the world. This is the areas that we will rely on most for rice and maize and corn. People worry that there won't be enough food, but we know, if we just ate less meat and fed less of the crops to animals, there is enough food for everybody as long as we think of ourselves as one group of people. And we also know about what we do so terribly badly nowadays. You will have seen this map of the world before. This is the map produced by taking satellite images, if you remember those satellites around the planet in the very first slide I showed, and producing an image of what the Earth looks like at night. When you normally see that map, on a normal map, the kind of map that most of you will be used to, you think you are seeing a map of where people live. Where the lights are shining up is where people live. But here, on this image of the world, remember we've stretched the map again. Everywhere has the same density of people on this map. If an area doesn't have people, we've shrunk it away to make it disappear. So we're showing everybody with equal prominence. Now, the lights no longer show you where people are, because people are everywhere. Now the lights on the map, the lights in London, the lights in Cairo, the lights in Tokyo, the lights on the Eastern Seaboard of the United States, the lights show you where people live who are so profligate with energy that they can afford to spend money powering lights to shine up into the sky, so satellites can draw an image like this. And the areas that are dark on the map are either areas where people do not have access to that much energy, or areas where people do, but they have learned to stop shining the light up into the sky. And if I could show you this map animated over time, you would see that Tokyo has actually become darker, because ever since the tsunami in Japan, Japan has had to rely on a quarter less electricity because it turned the nuclear power stations off. And the world didn't end. You just shone less light up into the sky. There are a huge number of good news stories in the world. Infant mortality is falling and has been falling at an incredible rate. A few years ago, the number of babies dying in their first year of life in the world fell by five percent in just one year. More children are going to school and learning to read and write and getting connected to the Internet and going on to go to university than ever before at an incredible rate, and the highest number of young people going to university in the world are women, not men. I can give you good news story after good news story about what is getting better in the planet, but we tend to concentrate on the bad news that is immediate. Rebecca Solnit, I think, put it brilliantly, when she explained: ""The accretion of incremental, imperceptible changes which can constitute progress and which render our era dramatically different from the past"" — the past was much more stable — ""a contrast obscured by the undramatic nature of gradual transformation, punctuated by occasional tumult."" Occasionally, terrible things happen. You are shown those terrible things on the news every night of the week. You are not told about the population slowing down. You are not told about the world becoming more connected. You are not told about the incredible improvements in understanding. You are not told about how we are learning to begin to waste less and consume less. This is my last map. On this map, we have taken the seas and the oceans out. Now you are just looking at about 7.4 billion people with the map drawn in proportion to those people. You're looking at over a billion in China, and you can see the largest city in the world in China, but you do not know its name. You can see that India is in the center of this world. You can see that Europe is on the edge. And we in Exeter today are on the far edge of the planet. We are on a tiny scrap of rock off Europe which contains less than one percent of the world's adults, and less than half a percent of the world's children. We are living in a stabilizing world, an urbanizing world, an aging world, a connecting world. There are many, many things to be frightened about, but there is no need for us to fear each other as much as we do, and we need to see that we are now living in a new world. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我想帶各位重新認識這世界。我會展示一些地圖，由班‧亨尼繪製，是以前所未見的一種方式所描繪的地球。這張圖片，各位應當非常熟悉。早在世人看到這張照片之前，我就已經出生了。顯然，我剛出生學會的其中一句話就是「月兒，月兒」，但我想，那是我母親認為她的寶貝小男孩可以在閃爍的黑白電視螢幕上，看出什麼端倪來。直到幾個世紀前，我們才開始認識到地球是球體狀的。1960年代，當我們第一次看到這些照片時，世界正以驚人的速度在改變。在我小小的人文地理專業領域中，有一位名叫沃爾多‧托布勒的製圖師，當時正在繪製地球的新地圖，而這些地圖現在已傳開來了，我會展示其中一張圖片給各位看。這是一張世界地圖，但是，對你們而言，它看上去有一點點奇怪。因為我們在地圖上的不同地區，各自進行了縮放：人口較多的地區，面積會放得比較大；而像撒哈拉沙漠和喜馬拉雅山脈這些人煙稀少的地方，則面積會縮得比較小。地球上的每個人都被賦予等量的空間。圖上光點標示的是城市。線條代表海底電纜以及貿易航線。其中有一條特別的路線，從中國大連港出發經過新加坡，穿過蘇伊士運河，行經地中海，最終繞到了荷蘭的鹿特丹港。它所展示的是一年前世界上最大的船運路線圖，這艘船滿載著無數的貨物，當它進行卸貨時，所有載運貨的卡車連接起來，綿延不絕長達100公里。這是當今世界的連結方式。這是在世界各地流通的貨物數量，只需要一艘船、一次航行，五個禮拜的時間就可以完成。我們已生活在城市中有很長的一段時間了，但古時候大多數的人，並沒有生活在城市中。這是恰塔霍裕克(Çatalhöyük)，世界上最早的城市之一。9,000年前，在這個城市的鼎盛時期，人們需要踩過別人家的屋頂才能回到自己的家中。如果你仔細觀察這座城市的地圖，你會發現它並沒有街道，因為街道是後人發明的。世界不斷地改變，透過不斷地嘗試錯誤、修正而改變。我們緩慢而漸進地摸索如何才能生活得更好。但近期以來，世界卻以飛速在轉變。直到約六、七或八個世代前，我們才真正意識到我們是一個物種。直到幾十年以前，我們才得以繪製像這樣的地圖。是的，這張地圖本質上是一張世界人口地圖。在圖上，箭頭方向標示了人類從非洲遷徙到全球的路徑，還有我們抵達各處的特定時間。每隔幾月我都需要重新繪製這張地圖，因為有些人可能會發現地圖上某個特定日期有誤。我們以不可思議的速度不斷地了解我們自己。而我們也不斷地改變。很多改變是循序漸進的，它會慢慢累積。我們難以察覺到這些改變，因為我們的壽命十分短暫，只有70、80年，長的也不過90年。這幅圖展示了世界上的人口年增長率。在西元1850年前，增長率相當低，自那之後人口增長率便開始上升，到我出生的時候，當時正是人類第一次看到從月球傳來的地球圖像，全球人口開始以每年2%的增長率快速攀升。如果人口保持2%的年增長率，不出幾個世紀的時間，整個地球就將會人滿為患，擁擠不堪。到時人們會開始擔心，擔心人口增長，擔心1968年所說的「人口爆炸」現象會來臨。不過，如果你有觀察到圖表的末端，增長率已開始放緩那些年代 ──70年代、80年代、90年代、00年代，以及我們現在這個時代，下降幅度更快了──人口增長正在減緩。我們的地球正趨於穩定在21世紀末，我們的人口將達到90億、100億或是110億在人口增長的過程中，你所看到的是混亂，你所看到的是第二次世界大戰，你所看到的是1918年的大流感。還有中國的大饑荒。這些都是我們關注的大事件。我們傾向於關注可怕、駭人聽聞的新聞事件，而不是關注那些循序漸進的變化以及那些美好的新聞故事。我們擔心人口，我們擔心到底有多少人。我們擔心要如何遠離人群。不過這又是一幅不同的世界地圖，人與人之間離的距離越遠，區域面積越大。所以如果你想了解哪裏可以遠離人群，這些地方都還不錯。每一年，這些地區的面積都在不斷地擴大，因為全球性的、每年人們不斷地離開這些地區。不斷地往城市移動，擠入人口密集且日益狹窄的城市。歐洲再次有了狼群，如今狼群正越過整個大陸向西遷移。我們的世界正在改變。你會擔心。這張地圖展示了全球各地的降雨量。我們現在都理解了。你可以看到恰塔霍裕克的位置，位於亞、非、歐三大洲的交界處，你還可以看到數量極大的人口生活在這片極度缺水的地區中。你也可以看到降雨量充沛的地區。我們可以更深入地探索下去。除了以人口分布來繪製地圖，我們還可以根據降雨量來繪製，我們可以透過每月的變動來顯示地球上每一個小角落的降雨總量。你可以看到全球的季風移動，地球看起來像顆心臟在跳動。而這些都是在我有生之年中，才能夠觀察到的屬於我們居住的地球所展現的各種樣貌。我們有足夠的水資源。這張地圖展示了全世界糧食種植的分布情況。這些區域是我們賴以生存的米飯、玉米、穀物的種植區。人們擔心食物將會短缺，但是我們清楚，只要我們少吃點肉，少給牲畜餵食穀物，我們的糧食就綽綽有餘了，只要我們把所有人視為單一生命共同體。我們也清楚，我們現在的所作所為有多麽糟糕。各位以前可能見過這張世界地圖。這是一張由衛星圖像製成的地圖。如果各位還記得我在一開始展示的那些環繞地球的人造衛星，這些人造衛星拍出地球的夜間圖像。當你以平常看地圖的習慣來看那張地圖，那張你習以為常的地圖，你會認為你眼前的地圖標示了人們的居住地。燈光明亮的地方就是人們居住的地方。但是在這張世界圖像中，記得，我們又一次縮放了地圖。這張地圖上每個地方的人口密度相等。如果一片區域荒蕪人煙，我們便把它縮小，使它在地圖上消失。所以在這張地圖上，每個人都占有一席之地。現在，光點顯示的不再是人們的所在地，因為人口在地圖上均勻分布著。現在地圖上的光，出現在倫敦、開羅、東京美國東海岸的這些光，它告訴我們那些地區的人們是多麽不珍惜能源，他們揮霍大筆的鈔票讓各式燈光照亮整個夜空，所以，衛星才得以繪製出這樣的圖像。而地圖上那些黯淡的區域，是因為那裏的人們並沒有那麽多能源，又或是他們有足夠的能源，但是明白節約能源的重要性。如果我把這張地圖用動態時間方式來展示，你會看到實際上東京變得較暗了，因為日本自從海嘯以來，關閉了核電廠，它只能依賴四分之一不到的電力供應。世界並沒有走向末日。只是你在黑夜中看到比較少的光點而以。世界上還有無數振奮人心的好消息。嬰兒死亡率正在下降，以不可思議的速度下降。幾年前，未滿一歲嬰兒的死亡率，一年就下降5%。越來越多的孩子到學校上課，學習聽、說、讀、寫，使用網路，之後繼續攻讀大學，相較以往，是以驚人的速度在增長著。全球上大學人數最多的年輕人，是女生，而不是男生。我可以源源不斷地舉出我們地球上越變越好的事情，但是我們卻傾向關注眼前的壞消息。我認為，麗貝卡‧索爾尼的描述頗為精確，她說：「循序漸進的累積，難以察覺的改變，可以堆砌出時代的進步歷程並形塑出與過去完全不同的世代」── 過去比較穩定 ──「而被偶發的混亂所干擾的漸進式改變，因其平淡的本質使然，使人難以察覺到世代間改變、進步的差異。」偶爾，可怕的事情會發生。但是，每晚的新聞都在循環播報那些可怕的事情。新聞不會告訴你，人口增長已經趨緩。新聞不會告訴你，世界的連結日益緊密。新聞不會告訴你，國家社會間的相互諒解有多大的進展。新聞不會告訴你，我們已經開始學習如何逐漸減少浪費與降低花費。這是我最後一張地圖。這張地圖上，我們移除了海洋。現在你看到的就是一張顯示了74億人口比例的地圖。你看到中國超過10億的人口，你可以看到中國世界上最大的城市，但你並不知道它的名字。你可以看到印度位於世界的中心。你可以看到歐洲位於世界的邊緣。我們今天所在的艾克斯特，在更遙遠的地球邊境上。我們在歐洲一塊蕞爾之地上，這裡有不到1%的全世界成年人口和不到0.5%的兒童。我們生活在一個穩定的世界、一個城市化的世界，一個高齡化的世界、一個相互連結的世界。有許多許多事情需要擔心，但是我們沒有必要互相猜忌，我們必需了解我們現正生活在一個嶄新的世界。非常感謝。（掌聲）
