Talk	en	zh-tw
daphne_bavelier_your_brain_on_video_games	"I'm a brain scientist, and as a brain scientist, I'm actually interested in how the brain learns, and I'm especially interested in a possibility of making our brains smarter, better and faster. This is in this context I'm going to tell you about video games. When we say video games, most of you think about children. It's true. Ninety percent of children do play video games. But let's be frank. When the kids are in bed, who is in front of the PlayStation? Most of you. The average age of a gamer is 33 years old, not eight years old, and in fact, if we look at the projected demographics of video game play, the video game players of tomorrow are older adults. (Laughter) So video [gaming] is pervasive throughout our society. It is clearly here to stay. It has an amazing impact on our everyday life. Consider these statistics released by Activision. After one month of release of the game ""Call Of Duty: Black Ops,"" it had been played for 68,000 years worldwide, right? Would any of you complain if this was the case about doing linear algebra? So what we are asking in the lab is, how can we leverage that power? Now I want to step back a bit. I know most of you have had the experience of coming back home and finding your kids playing these kinds of games. (Shooting noises) The name of the game is to get after your enemy zombie bad guys before they get to you, right? And I'm almost sure most of you have thought, ""Oh, come on, can't you do something more intelligent than shooting at zombies?"" I'd like you to put this kind of knee-jerk reaction in the context of what you would have thought if you had found your girl playing sudoku or your boy reading Shakespeare. Right? Most parents would find that great. Well, I'm not going to tell you that playing video games days in and days out is actually good for your health. It's not, and binging is never good. But I'm going to argue that in reasonable doses, actually the very game I showed you at the beginning, those action-packed shooter games have quite powerful effects and positive effects on many different aspects of our behavior. There's not one week that goes without some major headlines in the media about whether video games are good or bad for you, right? You're all bombarded with that. I'd like to put this kind of Friday night bar discussion aside and get you to actually step into the lab. What we do in the lab is actually measure directly, in a quantitative fashion, what is the impact of video games on the brain. And so I'm going to take a few examples from our work. One first saying that I'm sure you all have heard is the fact that too much screen time makes your eyesight worse. That's a statement about vision. There may be vision scientists among you. We actually know how to test that statement. We can step into the lab and measure how good your vision is. Well, guess what? People that don't play a lot of action games, that don't actually spend a lot of time in front of screens, have normal, or what we call corrective-to-normal vision. That's okay. The issue is what happens with these guys that actually indulge into playing video games like five hours per week, 10 hours per week, 15 hours per week. By that statement, their vision should be really bad, right? Guess what? Their vision is really, really good. It's better than those that don't play. And it's better in two different ways. The first way is that they're actually able to resolve small detail in the context of clutter, and though that means being able to read the fine print on a prescription rather than using magnifier glasses, you can actually do it with just your eyesight. The other way that they are better is actually being able to resolve different levels of gray. Imagine you're driving in a fog. That makes a difference between seeing the car in front of you and avoiding the accident, or getting into an accident. So we're actually leveraging that work to develop games for patients with low vision, and to have an impact on retraining their brain to see better. Clearly, when it comes to action video games, screen time doesn't make your eyesight worse. Another saying that I'm sure you have all heard around: Video games lead to attention problems and greater distractability. Okay, we know how to measure attention in the lab. I'm actually going to give you an example of how we do so. I'm going to ask you to participate, so you're going to have to actually play the game with me. I'm going to show you colored words. I want you to shout out the color of the ink. Right? So this is the first example. [""Chair""] Orange, good. [""Table""] Green. [""Board""] Audience: Red.Daphne Bavelier: Red. [""Horse""] DB: Yellow. Audience: Yellow. [""Yellow""] DB: Red. Audience: Yellow. [""Blue""] DB: Yellow. Okay, you get my point, right? (Laughter) You're getting better, but it's hard. Why is it hard? Because I introduced a conflict between the word itself and its color. How good your attention is determines actually how fast you resolve that conflict, so the young guys here at the top of their game probably, like, did a little better than some of us that are older. What we can show is that when you do this kind of task with people that play a lot of action games, they actually resolve the conflict faster. So clearly playing those action games doesn't lead to attention problems. Actually, those action video game players have many other advantages in terms of attention, and one aspect of attention which is also improved for the better is our ability to track objects around in the world. This is something we use all the time. When you're driving, you're tracking, keeping track of the cars around you. You're also keeping track of the pedestrian, the running dog, and that's how you can actually be safe driving, right? In the lab, we get people to come to the lab, sit in front of a computer screen, and we give them little tasks that I'm going to get you to do again. You're going to see yellow happy faces and a few sad blue faces. These are children in the schoolyard in Geneva during a recess during the winter. Most kids are happy. It's actually recess. But a few kids are sad and blue because they've forgotten their coat. Everybody begins to move around, and your task is to keep track of who had a coat at the beginning and who didn't. So I'm just going to show you an example where there is only one sad kid. It's easy because you can actually track it with your eyes. You can track, you can track, and then when it stops, and there is a question mark, and I ask you, did this kid have a coat or not? Was it yellow initially or blue? I hear a few yellow. Good. So most of you have a brain. (Laughter) I'm now going to ask you to do the task, but now with a little more challenging task. There are going to be three of them that are blue. Don't move your eyes. Please don't move your eyes. Keep your eyes fixated and expand, pull your attention. That's the only way you can actually do it. If you move your eyes, you're doomed. Yellow or blue? Audience: Yellow.DB: Good. So your typical normal young adult can have a span of about three or four objects of attention. That's what we just did. Your action video game player has a span of about six to seven objects of attention, which is what is shown in this video here. That's for you guys, action video game players. A bit more challenging, right? (Laughter) Yellow or blue? Blue. We have some people that are serious out there. Yeah. (Laughter) Good. So in the same way that we actually see the effects of video games on people's behavior, we can use brain imaging and look at the impact of video games on the brain, and we do find many changes, but the main changes are actually to the brain networks that control attention. So one part is the parietal cortex which is very well known to control the orientation of attention. The other one is the frontal lobe, which controls how we sustain attention, and another one is the anterior cingulate, which controls how we allocate and regulate attention and resolve conflict. Now, when we do brain imaging, we find that all three of these networks are actually much more efficient in people that play action games. This actually leads me to a rather counterintuitive finding in the literature about technology and the brain. You all know about multitasking. You all have been faulty of multitasking when you're driving and you pick up your cellphone. Bad idea. Very bad idea. Why? Because as your attention shifts to your cell phone, you are actually losing the capacity to react swiftly to the car braking in front of you, and so you're much more likely to get engaged into a car accident. Now, we can measure that kind of skills in the lab. We obviously don't ask people to drive around and see how many car accidents they have. That would be a little costly proposition. But we design tasks on the computer where we can measure, to millisecond accuracy, how good they are at switching from one task to another. When we do that, we actually find that people that play a lot of action games are really, really good. They switch really fast, very swiftly. They pay a very small cost. Now I'd like you to remember that result, and put it in the context of another group of technology users, a group which is actually much revered by society, which are people that engage in multimedia-tasking. What is multimedia-tasking? It's the fact that most of us, most of our children, are engaged with listening to music at the same time as they're doing search on the web at the same time as they're chatting on Facebook with their friends. That's a multimedia-tasker. There was a first study done by colleagues at Stanford and that we replicated that showed that those people that identify as being high multimedia-taskers are absolutely abysmal at multitasking. When we measure them in the lab, they're really bad. Right? So these kinds of results really makes two main points. The first one is that not all media are created equal. You can't compare the effect of multimedia-tasking and the effect of playing action games. They have totally different effects on different aspects of cognition, perception and attention. Even within video games, I'm telling you right now about these action-packed video games. Different video games have a different effect on your brains. So we actually need to step into the lab and really measure what is the effect of each video game. The other lesson is that general wisdom carries no weight. I showed that to you already, like we looked at the fact that despite a lot of screen time, those action gamers have a lot of very good vision, etc. Here, what was really striking is that these undergraduates that actually report engaging in a lot of high multimedia-tasking are convinced they aced the test. So you show them their data, you show them they are bad and they're like, ""Not possible."" You know, they have this sort of gut feeling that, really, they are doing really, really good. That's another argument for why we need to step into the lab and really measure the impact of technology on the brain. Now in a sense, when we think about the effect of video games on the brain, it's very similar to the effect of wine on the health. There are some very poor uses of wine. There are some very poor uses of video games. But when consumed in reasonable doses, and at the right age, wine can be very good for health. There are actually specific molecules that have been identified in red wine as leading to greater life expectancy. So it's the same way, like those action video games have a number of ingredients that are actually really powerful for brain plasticity, learning, attention, vision, etc., and so we need and we're working on understanding what are those active ingredients so that we can really then leverage them to deliver better games, either for education or for rehabilitation of patients. Now because we are interested in having an impact for education or rehabilitation of patients, we are actually not that interested in how those of you that choose to play video games for many hours on end perform. I'm much more interested in taking any of you and showing that by forcing you to play an action game, I can actually change your vision for the better, whether you want to play that action game or not, right? That's the point of rehabilitation or education. Most of the kids don't go to school saying, ""Great, two hours of math!"" So that's really the crux of the research, and to do that, we need to go one more step. And one more step is to do training studies. So let me illustrate that step with a task which is called mental rotation. Mental rotation is a task where I'm going to ask you, and again you're going to do the task, to look at this shape. Study it, it's a target shape, and I'm going to present to you four different shapes. One of these four different shapes is actually a rotated version of this shape. I want you to tell me which one: the first one, second one, third one or fourth one? Okay, I'll help you. Fourth one. One more. Get those brains working. Come on. That's our target shape. Third. Good! This is hard, right? Like, the reason that I asked you to do that is because you really feel your brain cringing, right? It doesn't really feel like playing mindless action video games. Well, what we do in these training studies is, people come to the lab, they do tasks like this one, we then force them to play 10 hours of action games. They don't play 10 hours of action games in a row. They do distributed practice, so little shots of 40 minutes several days over a period of two weeks. Then, once they are done with the training, they come back a few days later and they are tested again on a similar type of mental rotation task. So this is work from a colleague in Toronto. What they showed is that, initially, you know, subjects perform where they are expected to perform given their age. After two weeks of training on action video games, they actually perform better, and the improvement is still there five months after having done the training. That's really, really important. Why? Because I told you we want to use these games for education or for rehabilitation. We need to have effects that are going to be long-lasting. Now, at this point, a number of you are probably wondering well, what are you waiting for, to put on the market a game that would be good for the attention of my grandmother and that she would actually enjoy, or a game that would be great to rehabilitate the vision of my grandson who has amblyopia, for example? Well, we're working on it, but here is a challenge. There are brain scientists like me that are beginning to understand what are the good ingredients in games to promote positive effects, and that's what I'm going to call the broccoli side of the equation. There is an entertainment software industry which is extremely deft at coming up with appealing products that you can't resist. That's the chocolate side of the equation. The issue is we need to put the two together, and it's a little bit like with food. Who really wants to eat chocolate-covered broccoli? None of you. (Laughter) And you probably have had that feeling, right, picking up an education game and sort of feeling, hmm, you know, it's not really fun, it's not really engaging. So what we need is really a new brand of chocolate, a brand of chocolate that is irresistible, that you really want to play, but that has all the ingredients, the good ingredients that are extracted from the broccoli that you can't recognize but are still working on your brains. And we're working on it, but it takes brain scientists to come and to get together, people that work in the entertainment software industry, and publishers, so these are not people that usually meet every day, but it's actually doable, and we are on the right track. I'd like to leave you with that thought, and thank you for your attention. (Applause) (Applause)"	"我是個腦神經科學家。身為一個腦神經科學家我對大腦如何學習很感興趣，其中，最令我感興趣的是如何讓頭腦變得更聰明、更好、更有效率。 在這個大前提之下，我將會談到電玩遊戲。當我們談起電玩遊戲時大部分的人都會想到小孩子沒錯。百分之九十的小孩都有玩電玩遊戲但是，坦白講當小孩們都就寢時，是誰還待在電子遊樂器 PlayStation 前呢？是絕大部分的你們。電玩玩家的平均年齡大約是 33 歲，並非八歲的小朋友。實際上，如果我們看看電玩遊戲的人口統計推算未來的玩家將會是較年長的成人。(大笑) 所以電玩遊戲在我們的社會中是很常見的它們會繼續存在於社會上，對於我們的日常生活來說這具有不可思議的影響力看看這些由 Activision 發佈的統計數字在發行「決勝時刻：黑色行動」的一個月後這款遊戲讓全世界的玩家花上 68,000 年對不對？如果人們花同樣的時間在練習線性代數在場的各位會有埋怨嗎？ 所以在我們的實驗室裡，我們在思考如何發揮利用這樣的潛力?現在，我想要退一步來談談別的我知道你們大部分都有這樣的經驗 — 回到家發現你的孩子在玩類似的遊戲(射擊的聲音) 這款遊戲要你在殭屍敵人抓住你之前打倒它們，對嗎?我幾乎百分之百肯定你們大多數會想「拜託，難道你除了射擊殭屍就不能幹一些更聰明的事嗎？」我想你把這樣的第一反應套用到以下的情境如果你發現你的小女兒在玩數獨或是你的小兒子在閱讀「莎士比亞」，你會怎樣想呢?大多數的父母認為他們太棒了嗯.. 我說的並不是，日以繼夜玩著電玩對你的健康是有益的並非如此。過分沈迷從來就沒有好處但是，我想論證的是適量地玩電玩遊戲特別是我在演講剛開始時展示的那種動作電玩的射擊遊戲特別是我在演講剛開始時展示的那種動作電玩的射擊遊戲對於我們許多不同的行為有強大和正面的影響。 媒體的頭條上，沒有一個星期不是在討論到底電玩遊戲對你是有益的還是有害的，對嗎？你們都被這個議題疲勞轟炸了我想將這些星期五晚上的酒吧話題攔置一旁帶你進入實驗室在實驗室裡，我們採用量化的測量方式實實在在測試電玩遊戲對大腦造成那些影響。我將會從我們的研究中挑選幾個例子。 首先提到的，我相信你們都一定聽說過使用螢幕的時間過久會使你的視力的變差。這是一項對於視覺的陳述。也許，在場的各位當中有視覺方面的科學家。其實，我們知道如何測試這個陳述我們可以走進實驗室裡，然後測試你的視力有多好嗯... 你能想得到嗎? 那些不常玩電玩動作遊戲的人或是那些沒花長時間在螢幕前的人有著正常，或者我們說經糾正的視力，這沒什麼稀奇的。問題是這些沉迷在電玩的世界裡的人，像那些每個星期會花5個小時、10個小時或15個小時在電玩上會變得怎樣呢?誠如上述所敘，他們的視力應該會很糟糕才對，是嗎？你能想得到嗎？他們的視力真的是好的不得了比那些不玩電玩的人還要好他們的視力在兩方面比一般人優勝第一個是他們有足夠的能力在雜亂的背景中分辨微小細節，所以這意謂著他們可以清楚地看到醫生處方上微細字體而不用放大鏡，事實上你可以在裸視的情況這樣做另一個方面則是他們其實有更佳的能力去辨別不同程度的灰色。想像你在一片霧茫茫的地方開車，分辨灰色的能力能夠令你看到前方的汽車、避免發生意外，而非遇上意外所以，我們為視力較差的病人開發一些遊戲，以此來訓練他們的大腦，讓他們能夠看得較清楚。實驗顯示，關於玩動作電玩使用螢幕並不會讓你的視力變差 另外一個說法是，我相信你們都聽過：電玩遊戲會導致注意力的問題並且使人難集中精神沒問題，我們知道如何在實驗室裡測量注意力我將會舉個例子來說明這是如何進行的我想請你們參與其中，所以你將會跟我一起玩這個遊戲。接下來，我會展示一些彩色的文字我要你大聲地唸出該文字的顏色沒問題吧? 先看第一個例子[椅子]橙色，好。[桌子] 綠色[板子] 觀眾：紅色達芙妮‧芭菲莉亞：紅色[馬] 達芙妮‧芭菲莉亞：黃色觀眾：黃色[黃色] 達芙妮‧芭菲莉亞：紅色觀眾：黃色[藍色] 達芙妮‧芭菲莉亞：黃色。好的，你懂我的意思了吧? (大笑)你會越做越好的，但是其實是有難度的。為什麼你會覺得很難呢?因為我讓你看到了文字與顏色之間的衝突你的注意力高低決定了你解決這種衝突的快慢，所以在這場遊戲裡頂尖的年輕佼佼者可能做得比一些我們當中較年長的人好我們傳達訊息是，當你用這個方式測試那些經常玩動作電玩遊戲的人你會發現他們能以較快的速度解決這類衝突。所以，很明顯的，玩動作電玩並不會導致注意力問題 實際上，這些動作電玩遊戲的玩家有著許多有關注意力的特長動作電玩遊戲能夠改善我們在這世界裡追蹤物體的能力。這些是我們平日常用的能力。我們在開車時，你會追隨前方的車，持續地追蹤在你附近的車你也會隨時注意行人、正在奔跑的狗。這些事都是令你能夠安全駕駛，對吧? 在實驗室裡，我們讓受測者走進實驗室，坐在電腦螢幕前，然後給他們一些小任務。我將會給你們相同的任務讓你們再做一次。你會看到黃色的笑臉和藍色的哭臉。這些都是在冬天的日內瓦某個校園裏課間休息的小孩。大部分的小孩都很開心，課間休息嘛但是一些小孩則是很傷心且是憂鬱的，因為他們忘記帶外套。大家開始隨意活動，而你的任務是持續追蹤那些在一開始有穿外套和後來沒有穿外套的小孩。接著，我將會展示一個例子，只有一個傷心的小孩。這非常的簡單因為你只需要追蹤一個小孩。你可以追蹤，你可以追蹤，然後他停下來的時候，這裏會出現一個問號，我問你，這個小孩有穿外套嗎?他本來是黃色還是藍色呢?我聽到一些人說""黃色""。好，那證明你們大部分都有點腦袋 (笑聲)我現在想再給你們一個任務，但這次會是一個更難的任務。這裏有三個藍色的小孩。不要移動你的眼晴請不要移動你的眼晴。盡量將你的視線保持及放大，牽動你的 注意力。這是唯一令你可以完成這個任務的方法。如果你移動你的眼晴，你注定要失敗了黃色還是藍色?觀眾: 黃色。 達芙妮‧芭菲莉亞: 好!一個正常成年人的注意力大概可以追蹤三至四個物件就像我們剛完成的任務。一個動作電玩遊戲玩家的注意力令他可以同時追踨六至七個物件就像這個片段中展示的那樣這是你們這些動作電玩遊戲玩家能做到的有一點挑戰性，是嗎? (笑聲)黃色還是藍色呢? 藍色，我們當中有些人相當認真呢! 好極了! (笑聲) 好! 就像我們能夠觀察到電玩玩家行為上的變化一樣我們可以利用腦掃描技術，看看這些電玩遊戲對大腦的影響，我們發現很多的變化但是最多的變化出現在用於控制注意力的神經網絡。其中一個部分是在大腦頂葉 (parietal lobe)、用於控制的注意力運用的大腦區域第二個是大腦額葉 (frontal lobe)，它控制我們的持續專注力以及前帶狀皮層 (anterior cingulate)，它控制我們怎樣分配及管理注意力及解決衝突我們參考腦掃描影像的時候，發現動作遊戲玩家的這三個神經網絡效率特別高 這引領我到一個在學術文獻中有關科技與大腦的驚喜發現你們都知道甚麼是「多任務處理」(multitasking)吧。你們都試過做多任務處理的壞事吧。在駕車時用手機就是其中一個例子。不是很明智的想法，非常壞的想法。為甚麼? 因為當你的注意力移到手機的時候你實際上是失去了敏捷剎車的能力，這時你遇上交通意外的機會大大提高。現在，我們可以在實驗室裏量度這種技能我們當然不會要求參加者漫無目的地駕駛跟著量度他們的意外率。這會是一個代價相當高的主張。但是我們設計了一些在電腦上運行的實驗令我們可以以毫秒的準確度去量度參加者從一個任務轉移到另一個任務的能力我們這樣做的時候，我們發現動作遊戲玩家的表現非常、非常的優異他們在轉移任務上相當快，非常迅速。轉移任務的代價相對很少 我想你們記住這一個發現，並將它套用到另一組的科技用家上一個社會大眾都崇敬的群組他們是經常作「多媒體任務處理」(multimedia-tasking) 的一群甚麼是「多媒體任務處理」呢? 大部分我們的孩子當中他們在網上搜尋資訊的時候一邊聽著音樂一邊與朋友在臉書 (facebook) 上交談這就是會做多媒體任務處理的人在史丹福大學的同事首先發表了一個研究我們也複制了一樣的實驗結果這些被界定為高效的多媒體任務處理者其實是糟透的多任務處理者當我們量度他們的表現時，他們的表現相當差 真的嗎? 這些實驗結果告訴我們兩個重點第一，不同媒體對我們的表現有不同的影響你不能直接比較多媒體處理與參加電玩動作遊戲的影響它們對於我們眾多的認知能力，如感知、注意力方面有截然不同的影響我告訴你們，即使不同的電玩遊戲這些充滿動作的電玩遊戲對你們的大腦亦會產生不同的影響我們真的要踏進實驗室去量度每個遊戲所產生的影響 另外一件我學到的事就是大眾智慧不一定準確我已經向你展示，就像我們知道即使長期對著電腦螢幕，那些動作遊戲玩家有很好的視力，諸如此類...這裏，令人吃驚的是這些指自已經常作多媒體處理的大學本科生真的相信自己在測試中做得很棒你給他們看數據，看到自己那些糟糕的表現他們會說: 不可能。你知道，他們有著這種直覺，就是覺得他們自己表現得非常、非常的優異這就是另一個我們要踏進實驗室的原因去實際測量科技對我們的大腦產生的變化。 在某一個程度上，當我們想著電玩遊戲對我們大腦的影響，就正如紅酒對我們健康的影響一樣。有些人沒有對紅酒用得其所，同時有些人也對電玩遊戲沒有用得其所。在適當的年紀、飲用適量的紅酒對我們的健康有莫大的裨益。紅酒中的某些分子已經被驗證為有助於延壽同樣地，一些動作遊戲有大量的成份對於大腦的可塑性、學習、注意力、視覺等等都有強大的影響力。我們需要、亦正在努力理解這些有效成份令我們可以對這些遊戲善加利用把它們應用在教育或病人復康的層面 正因為我們希望在教育和復康治療有所貢獻，事實上我們對你怎樣選購電玩遊戲以消磨時間並不感太大興趣相對地，即使你對這些遊戲沒有絲毫興趣我對怎樣能夠強迫你參與動作遊戲從而提升你的視力更感興趣，好嗎?這就是復康治療或者教育的重點大部分的小朋友都不會在上學時說「很棒，兩小時的數學課!」 所以這是我的研究重點要做到這樣，我們要踏出更進取的一步這一步就是要做些鍛鍊研究讓我講解一下一個叫做「心智旋轉」 的任務我會再次請你嘗試這個任務我會再次請你嘗試這個任務去看看這些圖形。看看這個圖，它是個目標圖形接著我會再給你四個圖形四個之中其中一個是目標圖案被旋轉的版本。我想你告訴我哪一個:第一個，第二個，第三或第四個呢?好了，讓我幫你一把吧。第四個。再來一次，用用你的腦袋吧。加油。這是我們的目標圖形第三個，好! 這很難吧，是嗎?我想你嘗試一下這個任務的原因是你真的感受到你的腦袋扭作一團，對嗎?這真的不太像參與一些不需要用腦袋的電玩動作遊戲 事實上，我們在這些鍛鍊研究中參與者來到實驗室，他們就是要完成這些任務之後我們強迫他們玩10小時的動作遊戲他們不會一下子玩十小時的動作遊戲他們會接受分段訓練，每次四十分鐘在兩星期中的某幾天完成訓練接著，當他們完成訓練後，他們會在幾天後回到實驗室，再次接受差不多類型的「心智旋轉」測試。這是加拿大多倫多一位同事的研究結果。他們的實驗結果顯示，最初，你知道，參與者的表現就與他們同齡的人差不多。經過兩星期的動作遊戲訓練後，他們的表現有進步這個進步一直維持到他們受訓完畢後的五個月。這是非常、非常重要的發現為甚麼? 因為我告訴你，我們想用這些遊戲作教育及復康治療用途。我們需要持久的效果 現在，在這裏，你們當中或許有一部分會問嗯，你們還在等甚麼呢，還不把一個能夠增強我祖母注意力同時她又喜歡的遊戲又或者一個對我患有弱視的孫兒視覺復康治療有益的遊戲推出市場? 嗯，我們正在努力當中，但遇到這樣的挑戰有一些神經科學家，像我一樣，開始了解遊戲中有正面作用的好成份，我稱它們為方程式中的西蘭花部分娛樂軟件工業一直非常靈巧地發明一些你難以抗拒的產品那是方程式中的巧克力部分問題是我們需要把兩者結合就像烹調一樣有誰會想吃鋪上巧克力的西蘭花呢?沒有人。(笑聲) 你們或許有這樣的想法對，拿起一副教育遊戲然後某程度上覺得，唔，你知道啦，這真沒趣這個遊戲真的不吸引。所以我們要的是一個新的巧克力品牌，一個不能抗拒的品牌，你會想參與其中同時它又結合了所有成分，那些從西蘭花中提取，你又不能辨認出、又對你的腦袋甚有益處的有效成分。。我們正在努力中但這需要神經科學家們娛樂軟件工業專家以及出版商聚起來，這些人一般來說不會每天見面，但這是可行的同時我們也踏上正確的軌道這是我想留給你們的想法也感謝你們的關注 (掌聲)(掌聲)"
