Talk	en	zh-tw
dave_meslin_the_antidote_to_apathy	"How often do we hear that people just don't care? How many times have you been told that real, substantial change isn't possible because most people are too selfish, too stupid or too lazy to try to make a difference in their community? I propose to you today that apathy as we think we know it doesn't actually exist; but rather, that people do care, but that we live in a world that actively discourages engagement by constantly putting obstacles and barriers in our way. I'll give you some examples of what I mean. Let's start with city hall. You ever see one of these before? This is a newspaper ad. It's a notice of a zoning application change for a new office building so the neighborhood knows what's happening. As you can see, it's impossible to read. You need to get halfway down to even find out which address they're talking about, and then further down, in tiny 10-point font, to find out how to actually get involved. Imagine if the private sector advertised in the same way — if Nike wanted to sell a pair of shoes — (Laughter) And put an ad in the paper like that. (Applause) Now, that would never happen. You'll never see an ad like that, because Nike actually wants you to buy their shoes, whereas the city of Toronto clearly doesn't want you involved with the planning process, otherwise their ads would look something like this, with all the information laid out clearly. As long as the city's putting out notices like this to try to get people engaged, then of course people aren't going to be engaged. But that's not apathy; that's intentional exclusion. Public space. (Applause) The manner in which we mistreat our public spaces is a huge obstacle towards any type of progressive political change, because we've essentially put a price tag on freedom of expression. Whoever has the most money gets the loudest voice, dominating the visual and mental environment. The problem with this model is there are some amazing messages that need to be said, that aren't profitable to say. So you're never going to see them on a billboard. The media plays an important role in developing our relationship with political change, mainly by ignoring politics and focusing on celebrities and scandals, but even when they do talk about important political issues, they do it in a way that I feel discourages engagement. I'll give you an example. The ""Now"" magazine from last week: progressive, downtown weekly in Toronto. This is the cover story. It's an article about a theater performance, and it starts with basic information about where it is, in case you actually want to go and see it after you've read the article — where, the time, the website. Same with this — it's a movie review. An art review. A book review — where the reading is in case you want to go. A restaurant — you might not want to just read about it, maybe you want to go there. So they tell you where it is, the prices, the address, the phone number, etc. Then you get to their political articles. Here's a great article about an important election race that's happening. It talks about the candidates, written very well, but no information, no follow-up, no websites for the campaigns, no information about when the debates are, where the campaign offices are. Here's another good article, about a new campaign opposing privatization of transit, without any contact information for the campaign. The message seems to be that the readers are most likely to want to eat, maybe read a book, maybe see a movie, but not be engaged in their community. You might think this is a small thing, but I think it's important, because it sets a tone and it reinforces the dangerous idea that politics is a spectator sport. Heroes: How do we view leadership? Look at these 10 movies. What do they have in common? Anyone? They all have heroes who were chosen. Someone came up to them and said, ""You're the chosen one. There's a prophecy. You have to save the world."" And then they go off and save the world because they've been told to, with a few people tagging along. This helps me understand why a lot of people have trouble seeing themselves as leaders — because it sends all the wrong messages about what leadership is about. A heroic effort is a collective effort, number one. Number two, it's imperfect; it's not very glamorous, and doesn't suddenly start and suddenly end. It's an ongoing process your whole life. But most importantly, it's voluntary. It's voluntary. As long as we're teaching our kids that heroism starts when someone scratches a mark on your forehead, or someone tells you you're part of a prophecy, they're missing the most important characteristic of leadership, which is that it comes from within. It's about following your own dreams, uninvited, and then working with others to make those dreams come true. Political parties: oh, boy. Political parties could and should be one of the basic entry points for people to get engaged in politics. Instead, they've become, sadly, uninspiring and uncreative organizations that rely so heavily on market research and polling and focus groups that they end up all saying the same thing, pretty much regurgitating back to us what we already want to hear at the expense of putting forward bold and creative ideas. And people can smell that, and it feeds cynicism. (Applause) Charitable status. Groups who have charitable status in Canada aren't allowed to do advocacy. This is a huge problem and a huge obstacle to change, because it means that some of the most passionate and informed voices are completely silenced, especially during election time. Which leads us to the last one, which is: our elections. As you may have noticed, our elections in Canada are a complete joke. We use out-of-date systems that are unfair and create random results. Canada's currently led by a party that most Canadians didn't actually want. How can we honestly and genuinely encourage more people to vote when votes don't count in Canada? You add all this up together, and of course people are apathetic. It's like trying to run into a brick wall. Now, I'm not trying to be negative by throwing all these obstacles out and explaining what's in our way. Quite the opposite — I actually think people are amazing and smart and that they do care, but that, as I said, we live in this environment where all these obstacles are being put in our way. As long as we believe that people, our own neighbors, are selfish, stupid or lazy, then there's no hope. But we can change all those things I mentioned. We can open up city hall. We can reform our electoral systems. We can democratize our public spaces. My main message is: if we can redefine apathy, not as some kind of internal syndrome, but as a complex web of cultural barriers that reinforces disengagement, and if we can clearly define, clearly identify what those obstacles are, and then if we can work together collectively to dismantle those obstacles, then anything is possible. Thank you. (Applause)"	我們是否時常聽到沒人關心政治？是否時常有人告訴你真正的改變是不可能的因為大多數的人們要不是太自私太白癡，就是太懶惰沒人想真正努力改變自己的社區今天我想要告訴大家的你所熟悉的這些冷漠其實並不存在其實人們在乎但我們所在的這個世界卻往往以許多阻礙來阻擾我們參與社區事務 讓我舉出一些例子來說明我的論點從市政府開始你看過這個嗎？這是個報紙廣告一個新商業大樓申請區域重劃於是登報告訴當地住戶如你所見，這根本無法閱讀你需要一路看到中間才能找到這塊地的地址你得再往下找到這些更小的字才知道如何參與討論想像私人企業也用這套 －如果耐吉想賣鞋然後登這種報紙廣告（掌聲）這是不可能的你不會看到這種廣告因為耐吉真心希望你買他們的鞋子但多倫多市政府很明顯地不要你參與重劃過程要不然他們的廣告應該看起來像這樣所有的資訊都一目了然要是市政府的公告總是這樣還期待市民加入討論那麼當然，不會得到任何結果但這不是冷漠而是刻意排除 公共空間（掌聲）我們對待公共空間的方式也是一個阻礙政治進步和改變的障礙就像是我們為言論自由貼上價格標簽誰有錢，誰大聲充斥著我們的視覺和心靈環境這個模式的問題是那些需要被聽到的重要訊息並不賺錢於是你永遠無法在告示牌上看見它們 媒體在我們處理公共事務和促進政治改變的心態上扮演著非常重要的角色它們避開那些爭議性的話題過分關心娛樂新聞和醜聞就連它們好不容易提到重要的議題時都是用一種避免人參與的方式讓我舉出一個例子：這是上禮拜的“現在”雜誌一本先進的，多倫多市中心的週刊這是封面故事一個有關劇場表演的文章一開始它就寫出上演的地方因為你讀完這篇文章後，很有可能會想去看地點，時間，網頁這個電影評論也是還有藝術評論書評 － 朗讀會在哪裡舉辦，如果你想去的話餐廳 － 因為你不只想讀你還會想去吃於是它們會告訴你在哪裡，大概甚麼價位地址，電話等等 等到你開始讀政治評論這個文章為現在進行的選舉做了很好的報導它談論我們的候選人 － 寫的很好但沒有後續資訊沒有選舉網頁也沒有選舉中心的地址，或辯論大會舉行的資料這裡有另一個好文章談論反對大眾運輸私有化卻也沒有附上活動的連絡方式這本雜誌透露出來的訊息彷彿是讀者們最喜歡的是吃偶爾看本書、看部電影，但絕不是改變社區你可能覺得這都是小事但我之所以覺得它重要是因為這一切都導向一個危險的訊息就是我們可以袖手旁觀 英雄們：我們如何看待領導力看看這十部電影，它們的共通處是甚麼？誰來告訴我們？電影裡的英雄都是被選擇的某個人出現對他們說“就是你了預言說，你必須拯救世界。”於是這個人就上路去拯救世界，因為有人要他們這樣做也沒幾個人跟隨他這讓我理解為甚麼人們很難把自己看成領導者因為這些都灌輸人們有關領導力的錯誤訊息英雄事蹟是集體合作第一第二，它並不完美，也不華麗它不會突然開始又突然結束它是一個持續發生的過程最重要的是，它是自願的自發性的一旦我們教導我們的孩子英雄都是從有個人在他額頭做上標記開始或是得有人過來告訴你：你是預言的一部分他們都遺漏了領導力最重要的一個特性就是它是從內而生的它有關跟隨你的夢想無須他人邀請然後與他人一起合作，實現美夢 政黨，老天政黨可以是，也應該是那些想參與政治活動的人的絕佳入口但是它們，很不幸地卻變成這些沒創意又沒想法的組織靠著市場調查投票和意見調查說出一樣的話反芻那些我們想聽的話而不是提供有創意或勇敢的想法人們聽得出來，於是變得諷刺（掌聲） 慈善組織：加拿大擁有慈善身分的團體不能支持特定組織和人物這是一個大問題，也是改變的一大阻力這意味著最熱情和理解狀況的聲音在選舉期間是完全靜默的於是我們來到最後一點我們的選舉 大家都知道，加拿大的選舉根本是個笑話我們用落後的系統製造出不公平和隨性的結果今日的加拿大是由大部分的加拿大人不想要的政黨所帶領的我們該如何誠懇地鼓勵人們去投票當投票在加拿大根本不算數呢？你把以上原因全加在一起你就知道為甚麼人們如此漠然就像撞進一堵磚牆 列舉這些阻礙不是為了帶來負面影響，然後說，我們就是這樣相反的，我覺得人們非常聰明而且他們在乎但誠如我所說，冷漠是來自我們的環境和這些立在我們之前的阻礙一旦我們相信人們，我們的鄰舍都是些自私、愚蠢、又懶惰的人就毫無希望但我們可以改變我剛剛所提到的我們可以向市政府提出要求我們可以改變我們的選舉系統我們可以讓公共空間民主化 我的重點是如果我們可以把人們的漠然不再歸咎於個人的心理狀態而是歸咎於這些複雜的文化負擔是這些負擔阻礙了我們的參與一旦我們重新思考我們就可以辨認這些阻力如果我們一起努力打破這些阻礙任何事都是有可能的 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
