Talk	en	zh-tw
dave_eggers_makes_his_ted_prize_wish_once_upon_a_school	"Thank you so much everyone from TED, and Chris and Amy in particular. I cannot believe I'm here. I have not slept in weeks. Neil and I were sitting there comparing how little we've slept in anticipation for this. I've never been so nervous — and I do this when I'm nervous, I just realized. (Laughter) So, I'm going to talk about sort of what we did at this organization called 826 Valencia, and then I'm going to talk about how we all might join in and do similar things. Back in about 2000, I was living in Brooklyn, I was trying to finish my first book, I was wandering around dazed every day because I wrote from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m. So I would walk around in a daze during the day. I had no mental acuity to speak of during the day, but I had flexible hours. In the Brooklyn neighborhood that I lived in, Park Slope, there are a lot of writers — it's like a very high per capita ratio of writers to normal people. Meanwhile, I had grown up around a lot of teachers. My mom was a teacher, my sister became a teacher and after college so many of my friends went into teaching. And so I was always hearing them talk about their lives and how inspiring they were, and they were really sort of the most hard-working and constantly inspiring people I knew. But I knew so many of the things they were up against, so many of the struggles they were dealing with. And one of them was that so many of my friends that were teaching in city schools were having trouble with their students keeping up at grade level, in their reading and writing in particular. Now, so many of these students had come from households where English isn't spoken in the home, where a lot of them have different special needs, learning disabilities. And of course they're working in schools which sometimes and very often are under-funded. And so they would talk to me about this and say, ""You know, what we really need is just more people, more bodies, more one-on-one attention, more hours, more expertise from people that have skills in English and can work with these students one-on-one."" Now, I would say, ""Well, why don't you just work with them one-on-one?"" And they would say, ""Well, we have five classes of 30 to 40 students each. This can lead up to 150, 180, 200 students a day. How can we possibly give each student even one hour a week of one-on-one attention?"" You'd have to greatly multiply the workweek and clone the teachers. And so we started talking about this. And at the same time, I thought about this massive group of people I knew: writers, editors, journalists, graduate students, assistant professors, you name it. All these people that had sort of flexible daily hours and an interest in the English word — I hope to have an interest in the English language, but I'm not speaking it well right now. (Laughter) I'm trying. That clock has got me. But everyone that I knew had an interest in the primacy of the written word in terms of nurturing a democracy, nurturing an enlightened life. And so they had, you know, their time and their interest, but at the same time there wasn't a conduit that I knew of in my community to bring these two communities together. So when I moved back to San Francisco, we rented this building. And the idea was to put McSweeney's — McSweeney's Quarterly, that we published twice or three times a year, and a few other magazines — we were going to move it into an office for the first time. It used to be in my kitchen in Brooklyn. We were going to move it into an office, and we were going to actually share space with a tutoring center. So we thought, ""We'll have all these writers and editors and everybody — sort of a writing community — coming into the office every day anyway, why don't we just open up the front of the building for students to come in there after school, get extra help on their written homework, so you have basically no border between these two communities?"" So the idea was that we would be working on whatever we're working on, at 2:30 p.m. the students flow in and you put down what you're doing, or you trade, or you work a little bit later or whatever it is. You give those hours in the afternoon to the students in the neighborhood. So, we had this place, we rented it, the landlord was all for it. We did this mural, that's a Chris Ware mural, that basically explains the entire history of the printed word, in mural form — it takes a long time to digest and you have to stand in the middle of the road. So we rented this space. And everything was great except the landlord said, ""Well, the space is zoned for retail; you have to come up with something. You've gotta sell something. You can't just have a tutoring center."" So we thought, ""Ha ha! Really!"" And we couldn't think of anything necessarily to sell, but we did all the necessary research. It used to be a weight room, so there were rubber floors below, acoustic tile ceilings and fluorescent lights. We took all that down, and we found beautiful wooden floors, whitewashed beams and it had the look — while we were renovating this place, somebody said, ""You know, it really kind of looks like the hull of a ship."" And we looked around and somebody else said, ""Well, you should sell supplies to the working buccaneer."" (Laughter) And so this is what we did. So it made everybody laugh, and we said, ""There's a point to that. Let's sell pirate supplies."" This is the pirate supply store. You see, this is sort of a sketch I did on a napkin. A great carpenter built all this stuff and you see, we made it look sort of pirate supply-like. Here you see planks sold by the foot and we have supplies to combat scurvy. We have the peg legs there, that are all handmade and fitted to you. Up at the top, you see the eyepatch display, which is the black column there for everyday use for your eyepatch, and then you have the pastel and other colors for stepping out at night — special occasions, bar mitzvahs and whatever. So we opened this place. And this is a vat that we fill with treasures that students dig in. This is replacement eyes in case you lose one. These are some signs that we have all over the place: ""Practical Joking with Pirates."" While you're reading the sign, we pull a rope behind the counter and eight mop heads drop on your head. That was just my one thing — I said we had to have something that drops on people's heads. It became mop heads. And this is the fish theater, which is just a saltwater tank with three seats, and then right behind it we set up this space, which was the tutoring center. So right there is the tutoring center, and then behind the curtain were the McSweeney's offices, where all of us would be working on the magazine and book editing and things like that. The kids would come in — or we thought they would come in. I should back up. We set the place up, we opened up, we spent months and months renovating this place. We had tables, chairs, computers, everything. I went to a dot-com auction at a Holiday Inn in Palo Alto and I bought 11 G4s with a stroke of a paddle. Anyway, we bought 'em, we set everything up and then we waited. It was started with about 12 of my friends, people that I had known for years that were writers in the neighborhood. And we sat. And at 2:30 p.m. we put a sandwich board out on the front sidewalk and it just said, ""Free Tutoring for Your English-Related and Writing-Related Needs — Just Come In, It's All Free."" And we thought, ""Oh, they're going to storm the gates, they're gonna love it."" And they didn't. And so we waited, we sat at the tables, we waited and waited. And everybody was becoming very discouraged because it was weeks and weeks that we waited, really, where nobody came in. And then somebody alerted us to the fact that maybe there was a trust gap, because we were operating behind a pirate supply store. (Laughter) We never put it together, you know? And so then, around that time, I persuaded a woman named Nineveh Caligari, a longtime San Francisco educator — she was teaching in Mexico City, she had all the experience necessary, knew everything about education, was connected with all the teachers and community members in the neighborhood — I convinced her to move up from Mexico City where she was teaching. She took over as executive director. Immediately, she made the inroads with the teachers and the parents and the students and everything, and so suddenly it was actually full every day. And what we were trying to offer every day was one-on-one attention. The goal was to have a one-to-one ratio with every one of these students. You know, it's been proven that 35 to 40 hours a year with one-on-one attention, a student can get one grade level higher. And so most of these students, English is not spoken in the home. They come there, many times their parents — you can't see it, but there's a church pew that I bought in a Berkeley auction right there — the parents will sometimes watch while their kids are being tutored. So that was the basis of it, was one-on-one attention. And we found ourselves full every day with kids. If you're on Valencia Street within those few blocks at around 2 p.m., 2:30 p.m., you will get run over, often, by the kids and their big backpacks, or whatever, actually running to this space, which is very strange, because it's school, in a way. But there was something psychological happening there that was just a little bit different. And the other thing was, there was no stigma. Kids weren't going into the ""Center-for-Kids-That-Need-More-Help,"" or something like that. It was 826 Valencia. First of all, it was a pirate supply store, which is insane. And then secondly, there's a publishing company in the back. And so our interns were actually working at the same tables very often, and shoulder-to-shoulder, computer-next-to-computer with the students. And so it became a tutoring center — publishing center, is what we called it — and a writing center. They go in, and they might be working with a high school student actually working on a novel — because we had very gifted kids, too. So there's no stigma. They're all working next to each other. It's all a creative endeavor. They're seeing adults. They're modeling their behavior. These adults, they're working in their field. They can lean over, ask a question of one of these adults and it all sort of feeds on each other. There's a lot of cross-pollination. The only problem, especially for the adults working at McSweeney's who hadn't necessarily bought into all of this when they signed up, was that there was just the one bathroom. (Laughter) With like 60 kids a day, this is a problem. But you know, there's something about the kids finishing their homework in a given day, working one-on-one, getting all this attention — they go home, they're finished. They don't stall. They don't do their homework in front of the TV. They're allowed to go home at 5:30 p.m., enjoy their family, enjoy other hobbies, get outside, play. And that makes a happy family. A bunch of happy families in a neighborhood is a happy community. A bunch of happy communities tied together is a happy city and a happy world. So the key to it all is homework! (Laughter) (Applause) There you have it, you know — one-on-one attention. So we started off with about 12 volunteers, and then we had about 50, and then a couple hundred. And we now have 1,400 volunteers on our roster. And we make it incredibly easy to volunteer. The key thing is, even if you only have a couple of hours a month, those two hours shoulder-to-shoulder, next to one student, concentrated attention, shining this beam of light on their work, on their thoughts and their self-expression, is going to be absolutely transformative, because so many of the students have not had that ever before. So we said, ""Even if you have two hours one Sunday every six months, it doesn't matter. That's going to be enough."" So that's partly why the tutor corps grew so fast. Then we said, ""Well, what are we going to do with the space during the day, because it has to be used before 2:30 p.m.?"" So we started bringing in classes during the day. So every day, there's a field trip where they together create a book — you can see it being typed up above. This is one of the classes getting way too excited about writing. You just point a camera at a class, and it always looks like this. So this is one of the books that they do. Notice the title of the book, ""The Book That Was Never Checked Out: Titanic."" And the first line of that book is, ""Once there was a book named Cindy that was about the Titanic."" So, meanwhile, there's an adult in the back typing this up, taking it completely seriously, which blows their mind. So then we still had more tutors to use. This is a shot of just some of the tutors during one of the events. The teachers that we work with — and everything is different to teachers — they tell us what to do. We went in there thinking, ""We're ultimately, completely malleable. You're going to tell us. The neighborhood's going to tell us, the parents are going to tell us. The teachers are going to tell us how we're most useful."" So then they said, ""Why don't you come into the schools? Because what about the students that wouldn't come to you, necessarily, who don't have really active parents that are bringing them in, or aren't close enough?"" So then we started saying, ""Well, we've got 1,400 people on our tutor roster. Let's just put out the word."" A teacher will say, ""I need 12 tutors for the next five Sundays. We're working on our college essays. Send them in."" So we put that out on the wire: 1,400 tutors. Whoever can make it signs up. They go in about a half an hour before the class. The teacher tells them what to do, how to do it, what their training is, what their project is so far. They work under the teacher's guide, and it's all in one big room. And that's actually the brunt of what we do is, people going straight from their workplace, straight from home, straight into the classroom and working directly with the students. So then we're able to work with thousands and thousands of more students. Then another school said, ""Well, what if we just give you a classroom and you can staff it all day?"" So this is the Everett Middle School Writers' Room, where we decorated it in buccaneer style. It's right off the library. And there we serve all 529 kids in this middle school. This is their newspaper, the ""Straight-Up News,"" that has an ongoing column from Mayor Gavin Newsom in both languages — English and Spanish. So then one day Isabel Allende wrote to us and said, ""Hey, why don't you assign a book with high school students? I want them to write about how to achieve peace in a violent world."" And so we went into Thurgood Marshall High School, which is a school that we had worked with on some other things, and we gave that assignment to the students. And we said, ""Isabel Allende is going to read all your essays at the end. She's going to publish them in a book. She's going to sponsor the printing of this book in paperback form. It's going to be available in all the bookstores in the Bay Area and throughout the world, on Amazon and you name it."" So these kids worked harder than they've ever worked on anything in their lives, because there was that outside audience, there was Isabel Allende on the other end. I think we had about 170 tutors that worked on this book with them and so this worked out incredibly well. We had a big party at the end. This is a book that you can find anywhere. So that led to a series of these. You can see Amy Tan sponsored the next one, ""I Might Get Somewhere."" And this became an ongoing thing. More and more books. Now we're sort of addicted to the book thing. The kids will work harder than they've ever worked in their life if they know it's going to be permanent, know it's going to be on a shelf, know that nobody can diminish what they've thought and said, that we've honored their words, honored their thoughts with hundreds of hours of five drafts, six drafts — all this attention that we give to their thoughts. And once they achieve that level, once they've written at that level, they can never go back. It's absolutely transformative. And so then they're all sold in the store. This is near the planks. We sell all the student books. Where else would you put them, right? So we sell 'em, and then something weird had been happening with the stores. The store, actually — even though we started out as just a gag — the store actually made money. So it was paying the rent. And maybe this is just a San Francisco thing — I don't know, I don't want to judge. But people would come in — and this was before the pirate movies and everything! It was making a lot of money. Not a lot of money, but it was paying the rent, paying a full-time staff member there. There's the ocean maps you can see on the left. And it became a gateway to the community. People would come in and say, ""What the —? What is this?"" I don't want to swear on the web. (Laughter) Is that a rule? I don't know. They would say, ""What is this?"" And people would come in and learn more about it. And then right beyond — there's usually a little chain there — right beyond, they would see the kids being tutored. This is a field trip going on. And so they would be shopping, and they might be more likely to buy some lard, or millet for their parrot, or, you know, a hook, or hook protector for nighttime, all of these things we sell. So the store actually did really well. But it brought in so many people — teachers, donors, volunteers, everybody — because it was street level. It was open to the public. It wasn't a non-profit buried, you know, on the 30th floor of some building downtown. It was right in the neighborhood that it was serving, and it was open all the time to the public. So, it became this sort of weird, happy accident. So all the people I used to know in Brooklyn, they said, ""Well, why don't we have a place like that here?"" And a lot of them had been former educators or would-be educators, so they combined with a lot of local designers, local writers, and they just took the idea independently and they did their own thing. They didn't want to sell pirate supplies. They didn't think that that was going to work there. So, knowing the crime-fighting community in New York, they opened the Brooklyn Superhero Supply Company. This is Sam Potts' great design that did this. And this was to make it look sort of like one of those keysmith's shops that has to have every service they've ever offered, you know, all over there. So they opened this place. Inside, it's like a Costco for superheroes — all the supplies in kind of basic form. These are all handmade. These are all sort of repurposed other products, or whatever. All the packaging is done by Sam Potts. So then you have the villain containment unit, where kids put their parents. You have the office. This is a little vault — you have to put your product in there, it goes up an electric lift and then the guy behind the counter tells you that you have to recite the vow of heroism, which you do, if you want to buy anything. And it limits, really, their sales. Personally, I think it's a problem. Because they have to do it hand on heart and everything. These are some of the products. These are all handmade. This is a secret identity kit. If you want to take on the identity of Sharon Boone, one American female marketing executive from Hoboken, New Jersey. It's a full dossier on everything you would need to know about Sharon Boone. So, this is the capery where you get fitted for your cape, and then you walk up these three steel-graded steps and then we turn on three hydraulic fans from every side and then you can see the cape in action. There's nothing worse than, you know, getting up there and the cape is bunching up or something like that. So then, the secret door — this is one of the shelves you don't see when you walk in, but it slowly opens. You can see it there in the middle next to all the grappling hooks. It opens and then this is the tutoring center in the back. (Applause) So you can see the full effect! But this is — I just want to emphasize — locally funded, locally built. All the designers, all of the builders, everybody was local, all the time was pro-bono. I just came and visited and said, ""Yes, you guys are doing great,"" or whatever. That was it. You can see the time in all five boroughs of New York in the back. (Laughter) (Applause) So this is the space during tutoring hours. It's very busy. Same principles: one-on-one attention, complete devotion to the students' work and a boundless optimism and sort of a possibility of creativity and ideas. And this switch is flicked in their heads when they walk through those 18 feet of this bizarre store, right? So it's school, but it's not school. It's clearly not school, even though they're working shoulder-to-shoulder on tables, pencils and papers, whatever. This is one of the students, Khaled Hamdan. You can read this quote. Addicted to video games and TV. Couldn't concentrate at home. Came in. Got this concentrated attention. And he couldn't escape it. So, soon enough, he was writing. He would finish his homework early — got really addicted to finishing his homework early. It's an addictive thing to sort of be done with it, and to have it checked, and to know he's going to achieve the next thing and be prepared for school the next day. So he got hooked on that, and then he started doing other things. He's now been published in five books. He co-wrote a mockumentary about failed superheroes called ""Super-Has-Beens."" He wrote a series on ""Penguin Balboa,"" which is a fighting — a boxing — penguin. And then he read aloud just a few weeks ago to 500 people at Symphony Space, at a benefit for 826 New York. So he's there every day. He's evangelical about it. He brings his cousins in now. There's four family members that come in every day. So, I'll go through really quickly. This is L.A., The Echo Park Time Travel Mart: ""Whenever You Are, We're Already Then."" (Laughter) This is sort of a 7-Eleven for time travelers. So you see everything: it's exactly as a 7-Eleven would be. Leeches. Mammoth chunks. They even have their own Slurpee machine: ""Out of Order. Come Back Yesterday."" (Laughter) (Applause) Anyway. So I'm going to jump ahead. These are spaces that are only affiliated with us, doing this same thing: Word St. in Pittsfield, Massachusetts; Ink Spot in Cincinnati; Youth Speaks, San Francisco, California, which inspired us; Studio St. Louis in St. Louis; Austin Bat Cave in Austin; Fighting Words in Dublin, Ireland, started by Roddy Doyle, this will be open in April. Now I'm going to the TED Wish — is that okay? All right, I've got a minute. So, the TED Wish: I wish that you — you personally and every creative individual and organization you know — will find a way to directly engage with a public school in your area and that you'll then tell the story of how you got involved, so that within a year we have a thousand examples — a thousand! — of transformative partnerships. Profound leaps forward! And these can be things that maybe you're already doing. I know that so many people in this room are already doing really interesting things. I know that for a fact. So, tell us these stories and inspire others on the website. We created a website. I'm going to switch to ""we,"" and not ""I,"" hope: We hope that the attendees of this conference will usher in a new era of participation in our public schools. We hope that you will take the lead in partnering your innovative spirit and expertise with that of innovative educators in your community. Always let the teachers lead the way. They will tell you how to be useful. I hope that you'll step in and help out. There are a million ways. You can walk up to your local school and consult with the teachers. They'll always tell you how to help. So, this is with Hot Studio in San Francisco, they did this phenomenal job. This website is already up, it's already got a bunch of stories, a lot of ideas. It's called ""Once Upon a School,"" which is a great title, I think. This site will document every story, every project that comes out of this conference and around the world. So you go to the website, you see a bunch of ideas you can be inspired by and then you add your own projects once you get started. Hot Studio did a great job in a very tight deadline. So, visit the site. If you have any questions, you can ask this guy, who's our director of national programs. He'll be on the phone. You email him, he'll answer any question you possibly want. And he'll get you inspired and get you going and guide you through the process so that you can affect change. And it can be fun! That's the point of this talk — it needn't be sterile. It needn't be bureaucratically untenable. You can do and use the skills that you have. The schools need you. The teachers need you. Students and parents need you. They need your actual person: your physical personhood and your open minds and open ears and boundless compassion, sitting next to them, listening and nodding and asking questions for hours at a time. Some of these kids just don't plain know how good they are: how smart and how much they have to say. You can tell them. You can shine that light on them, one human interaction at a time. So we hope you'll join us. Thank you so much."	非常感謝TED的每位成員，特別是Chris和Amy。不敢相信我今天能站在這裡。我已經好幾個禮拜沒睡了。我和Neil坐在那比誰睡得比較少我就有預料到這個演講。我從來沒這麼緊張過－－而剛才發覺，我緊張的時候會做這個動作我要來談826瓦倫西亞的課輔中心是如何運作的，接著我會講大家可以怎樣來共同參與，做類似的事情。 2000年時，我住在布魯克林，正費盡力氣想完成我的第一本書。我每天都恍恍惚惚的因為我都從半夜12點寫到隔天五點。到白天我就亂晃、發呆。雖然在白天我完全沒有精神，但我工作時間很有彈性。在我住的布魯克林Park Slope區那裡有很多作家－－作家的比例相當的高。另一方面，我身邊也有很多人當老師。我媽媽和姐姐都是老師大學畢業後，很多的朋友也都投入教育。我常聽他們講他們的教學生涯他們如何諄諄教誨學子，他們真的是我見過最認真也最會激勵別人的人了。 但我知道很多他們面臨的障礙，還有很多他們要處理的問題。而其中一個問題讓很多在市中教書的朋友都很頭痛的是他們的學生在寫作與閱讀上特別落後。有很多的學生在家裡是不講英文的還有很多有學習障礙的學生還有就是他們的學校經常經費不足。於是他們就來跟我說：「其實，我們真正需要的是更多的教師，更多一對一的關注，更多的時數，更多會英文的人來一對一幫助有需要的學生。」 我回說：「那你怎麼不就一對一的教他們呢？」他們回答說：「我們有五個班級，每個班級有30到40位學生。這等於一天要輔導150, 180 到 200位學生。我們連給一個學生每星期一小時個別輔導都沒辦法你必需要大量的增加工作時數和老師。於是我們開始討論這件事情。而在討論的時候，我想到我所認識的一大群人，作家、編輯、記者、研究生、助理教授，等等。這些人都有一些空閒的時間也都對英文創作有興趣－－我希望我也有，但我現在英文就說的不大好我有在努力，只是那時鐘真是超討厭的。但我所認識那些人都對英文寫作很有興趣論培育一個民主的國家， 一個開朗的生活。他們有時間跟興趣但我的社區裡面，沒有地方可以把兩個社群聯結在一起。 所以我搬回到舊金山，租下了這棟樓。我們的想法是把 McSweeney－－我們一年出版兩三次的McSweeney季刊以及一些其他雜誌－－第一次把它移到一間辦公室裡。這些雜誌以前都堆在我在布魯克林的廚房我們打算把它搬到一間辦公室裡，然後留點空間做課輔中心。我們就想：「反正這些作家、編輯幾乎天天都要到辦公室來，不如就開放一些空間讓學生下課後來這裡，做功課、問問題這樣學生與文字工作者們就沒有區隔了。」所以我們的想法是大家個忙個的事，直到2:30的時候, 學生進來，大家就放下手邊的工作，或交給別人，或晚點再做之類的。然後把那下午的幾小時留給接受課輔的學生。 於是我們就租了這個地方房東也很支持我們。牆上招牌的這副畫，是Chris Ware畫的. 基本上解釋整個文字印刷的歷史，這畫其實要花一點時間才看得懂，而且還得站在馬路正中央才看得清楚。我們就租下了這間房子。一切都進行的很順利，除了房東說：「嗯，這個空間被劃作商業區，你必須要想個辦法你們必須要賣些東西不能只開間課輔中心而已。」我們想：「喔！真的啊！」我們想不到可以賣什麼，但我們還是做了一些調查。這裡之前是間健身房，所以底下鋪有橡膠地板，上面有隔音的天花板，日光燈。我們把那些都拆了後，發現漂亮的木造地板和粉刷成白色的梁柱在我們整修這地方時，有人就說：「有沒有覺得，這樣看起來真像海盜船的船身。」我們左右看了一下, 然後又有人說：「那你們就該賣海盜商品吧。」 就這樣決定了。大家都覺得很想笑，我們就想：「這有道理，我們就來賣些海盜用品吧。」這就是我在餐巾紙上畫的的海盜用品店草圖。一位很厲害的木匠做了這些東西，我們把這裡裝修的像是供應海盜用品的地方。我們有按英尺賣的厚木板這些是抗壞血病的用品我們這裡還有海盜義肢，都是手工製作的, 十分合腳；上面黑色櫃子裡你可以看有是眼罩，黑色那ㄧ行都是日常用品有普通海盜眼罩, 然後你還有淡色系的，別的顏色讓你的可以在晚上出門使用,特別場合,像是猶太人成人禮, 等等 所以我們開張了。這桶子裡我們放一大堆寶藏讓學生尋寶；這是人工義眼以備你不時之需然後是我們到處掛的佈告：《愚弄海盜的實用笑話》你在看佈告的時候，有人會在櫃檯後面拉繩子馬上就有八枝拖把頭掉到你頭上，這是我想的, 我就覺得我們必須要有東西掉在別人頭上。後來決定是拖把頭. ˊ這是小魚劇院，其實就是個魚缸和三把椅子，後方，我們設了一個空間。就是課輔中心的所在區，所以課輔中心就在那，在簾子後面是McSweeney辦公室，還有編寫雜誌、修訂書籍之類的地方。 學生們進來－－我們本以為會有學生進來。我應該回頭說明一下。我們佈置到開放，花了好幾個月整修這個地方。我們有桌椅、電腦，什麼都有了。我還去Palo Alto假日酒店舉行的電腦拍賣會買了11台G4蘋果電腦和其他東西。總之，東西買了、佈置好了，然後我們就開始等。開始時是和12個朋友，一些我已經認識很多年，住在附近的作家我們就坐著。到2:30我們就放了一塊看板在人行道上寫著「免費輔導你英文和寫作只管進來，完全免費」。然後我們想：「他們一定會把這裡擠的水洩不通，學生們一定會愛死這裡。」結果沒有。我們坐在那等了又等大家都變的非常洩氣因為我們等了好幾個禮拜，都沒一個人進來。 然後就有人提醒了我們可能有個信心的障礙，畢竟我們課輔中心是在一間海盜商店裡。我們從來沒想到這個原因。後來，在那時後, 我說服了Nineveh Caligari女士一位舊金山的長期教育家－－當時她在墨西哥城教書，非常有經驗的一位老師知道所有和教育有關的事情而且和這裡的教師與社區成員都有來往。所以我說服她從墨西哥城搬過來，接任成為整個計畫的執行主任。很快的，她就跟當地的教師還有家長、學生等等推銷了這個計畫。於是突然間, 課輔中心每天就擠滿了人。 而我們每天努力要提供給學生的就是一對一的關注。目標是要讓每個學生都能有一對一的輔導。已經有研究顯示一年35到40小時一對一的關注，學生的成績能提高一個級分。這大部分的學生家裡並不說英文。他們到這裡來，在畫面上看不到－－但我們留了一張長椅給家長是我在一個柏克萊的拍賣會買來的－－常常有家長來看他們小孩課輔的情形。所以這個課輔的重心就是一對一的關注。我們每天都被孩子圍著，幾乎忙不過來。如果你放學時間到瓦倫西亞附近你就常常會迎面撞上往這裡衝的學生，和他們的大書包等的東西。 這就相當奇怪，畢竟這也算是一種學校。但因為心理上的因素，讓這裡和學校就是有些差別。還有一點是，我們這裡沒有任何歧視的味道。孩子們並不是到一個「為課業落後孩童而設的課輔中心」而是到826瓦倫西亞。再說，這裡是間海盜用品店，真是瘋了。此外，有個出版機構在後面。所以我們的實習生時常和學生在同一張桌上，肩並肩，電腦並著電腦的工作。 這裡不只是間課輔中心－－還是一個出版中心，也可以說是個－－寫作中心。學生進來，他們可能會坐在一個高中生隔壁或許正在寫小說－－我們也有許多很有天賦的孩子。總之，沒有任何歧視概念。大家一起工作、寫功課。這是個很有創意的嘗試。學童看著成人工作。他們學習成人的舉止。而這些成人，雖然在工作，仍可以回答學童探頭過來問的問題。產生一種互相依賴的感覺。成員間互動頻繁。唯一的問題，特別對那些 McSweeney's員工當初計畫時完全沒有想到的，是這整個地方只有一間廁所。加上每天約有60個小孩湧入，真的很頭痛。 但看這些學生在時間內完成功課，獲得這麼多關注－－可以輕鬆的回家，因為功課做完，不會累積，他們不會在電視前做作業。他們可以在5:30回家，享受他們的家庭生活，做他們想作的事，到外面玩。這就形成一個快樂的家庭。很多個快樂的家庭，就形成一個快樂的社區。而一大堆快樂的社區在一起，就形成了快樂的城市、快樂的世界。所以關鍵就是孩子完成功課，不是嗎！你們就可以了解為什麼要一對一的關注了。 我們從12個志願者開始，接著我們增加到50個左右。之後是幾百個。到現在我們已經有1400個志願者了。志願者的工作非常簡單。重點就是，就算你一個月只能有幾小時，那幾小時的肩並肩，坐在一位學童旁邊，關心他，認真的替他們看功課、聽他們的想法、自我表達，就足以改變一個學童了，因為太多小孩從來沒有這樣被重視過。所以我們說：「就算你只有兩小時、一個星期天、半年一次，都沒有差。這樣就足夠了。」這也是我們的課輔會成長這麼迅速的部分原因。 然後我們想：「我們在白天那些學生還沒來之前，要怎麼運用這個空間啊？」於是我們開始開辦早上的課程。每一天都會有校外教學到這裡來，他們會合作寫書；你可以看到故事就在螢幕上。這是其中一個班級對寫作太過興奮。只要放台攝影機在教室裡，他們就會很興奮了。這是他們寫的其中一本書。注意到它的書名：《一本從未被借走的書：鐵達尼號》第一行：「從前有本書名叫Cindy寫的是鐵達尼號。」後面有位成人負責打字，非常認真的看待這個活動，孩子們都樂壞了。 我們還有很多志願者。這是一場活動的照片，上面的只是一部分的志工。我們也和老師合作－－每個學生對老師而言都是特別的，他們告訴我們該怎麼做。我們就在想：「我們不是個死板的機構。你可以告訴我們，家長可以告訴我們，老師可以告訴我們怎麼做最有幫助。」 他們就說：「何不直接到學校課輔呢？因為還是有很多學生需要幫助但是他們的家長不夠積極主動，或是家住的太遠。」我們就開始想，「我們有1400個志願者。乾脆把名單列出來。」老師有需求，例如，接下來五個星期天我需要12位課輔幫助我們準備申請大學的論文。我們就會把消息放上網：1400位課輔誰有空誰就去登記。他們會半個小時前就到教室。老師會告訴他們要做什麼，如何做，現在在教什麼，學生的進度到哪裡。他們在老師的領導下指導學生，全都在同一間教室裡運作。這也是我們現在主要在進行的方向，讓志願者從他們的辦公室、他們家裡，直接走進教室直接來幫助學生。因此我們多接觸了好幾千個學生。另一間學校又說：「如果我們能直接騰出一間教室給你們用呢？」 這就成了Everett中學的寫作教室，我們把那裡佈置成海盜的風格。它就在學校圖書館隔壁。在那裏我們輔導了這間中學全部529位學生。這是他們的報紙《有話就說報》上面有市長Gavin Newsom的專欄以雙語呈現－－英文和西班牙文。然後有一天Isabel Allende就寫信給我們說：「何不派一個寫作任務給那些高中生呢？請他們寫：如何在一個暴力的世界中達到和平。」於是我們就到Thurgood Marshall高中，當時我們和那間學校也有些接觸，我們就把這項任務交給那些學生。我們就說：「Isabel Allende將會讀你們每個人的作品。她會把那些作品集合成一本書。還會資助這本書的印刷、出版。這本書可以在舊金山灣區一帶的書店、亞馬遜網路書店等等隨便一家書店都能買到。於是這些孩子用盡他們的全力來寫這本書，因為一想到有許多人會看他們的書，又是 Isabel Allende為他們出版，他們於是拼了命的寫書。我們大約有170位課輔幫忙他們一起寫書他們做的極其成功。最後我們辦了一場派對來慶祝。這本書你到哪裡都能找到。後來產生一系列的寫書計畫。你可以看到Amy Tan資助了下一本書，「或許我能到哪裡」然後這件事又持續進行了下去。我們書越寫越多 簡直是上癮了。孩子們會用盡他們的全力如果他們知道成就不是短暫的，知道他們的成就會讓所有人看到，知道沒有人能抹滅他們的想法知道我們尊重他們寫的每一個字改了好幾次的草稿－－我們給予的所有關注。而一但他們達到了那個寫作程度，他們就不會再退步，已經完全被改變了。那些書我們在店裡也都有賣。就在厚木板的旁邊，我們賣所有學生寫的書。不然你還能放在哪裡呢？所以，我們賣這些書。然後奇怪的事發生了雖然我們剛開始只是好玩而已，後來竟然賺錢了還夠付租金。或許這是一種舊金山才有的怪事我不知道，我也不想評斷。但人潮會湧入－－這還是在那些海盜電影和各種影集出現之前呢！海盜商店賺了錢。不是很多，但夠付租金、支付全職員工的薪水。在左邊可以看到一些海洋地圖。 這裡也成了這個社區的一個交流中心，人們會進來問：「這是什麼@%#？這裡是做什麼的？」我不想在網路上講髒話。有這規定嗎？我不知道。總之大家會很好奇就會進來看看而在後面－－可以看到孩子在後面寫作業這是一場室外教學。大家就會買點東西，他們多半會買些豬油，或是一些鸚鵡吃的小米，或海盜鉤子，或晚上用的海盜鉤子護套，或是其他我們在賣的東西。總之，店裡生意真的還不錯。還吸引了很多人：教師、捐款人、志願者、所有人。因為它就在街上, 是很公開的。它不像其他非營利機構一樣, 埋在一棟辦公大樓的30樓上或市中心的某棟建築裡。它就在鄰近的社區之中而且全天候開放給所有人結果就成了這個令人高興的意外。 我住在布魯克林的舊識們看了都說：「我們何不在這兒也辦一間呢?」當中有許多人之前是從事教育工作或將要從事教育工作的，他們就找來當地的設計師以及作家各自擷取靈感並分頭辦事他們不想賣海盜商品，他們不覺得海盜在他們那裏會銷知道紐約打擊犯罪的文化他們經營了布魯克林超人用品公司。這是Sam Potts的想法。它們把這裡弄的像間五金行，讓你覺得什麼五花八門的東西店裡都有賣。於是他們就開幕了。裡面就像是間專開給超人的量販店－－所有的商品都以基本的形式呈現。完全手工製作。都是經過重新設計而來的。所有的包裝都是Sam Potts做的。 裡面有一個惡棍拘押單位，是小孩放他們父母的地方。還有個辦事處。這很有趣－－你把要買的東西放到裡面，它會隨著機器上升然後櫃台後面的店員就會叫你作一番英雄的宣誓，如果你要買東西就得宣誓，這也多少影響了他們的收入。我個人覺得那會是一個問題。因為手還要放在胸口宣誓之類的這是其中的一些商品。完全手工製作。這是超人秘密身分套件如果你想偽裝成Sharon Boone來自紐澤西州霍伯肯市的一位女性市場行銷專員。這包含了所有Sharon Boone的資料。這是讓你試穿披風的披風區，你可以在這裡選一件披風，走上台階就會有人幫你開三台風扇你就可以看到披風擺動的樣子了。沒有比穿著披風走上去結果披風從中間鼓起來還要更滑稽了。然後，裡面有個祕密門藏在其中一個櫃子後面剛進去的時候可能不會發現。不過就在一整排鉤子的旁邊，你可以看到這個門。把門打開，裡面就是他們課輔的地方。這就是課輔中心。 但這一切，我想強調，全都是當地人，自己籌錢、建造的所有的設計師、建築師，通通都是地方居民，也都秉持著公益的原則。我只是過來看看然後跟他們說：「對，你們做得很好。」之類的，就這樣而已。你可以看到牆上有標示紐約時間的五個時鐘。這是課輔時的樣子。非常的忙碌。同樣的原則：一對一的關注，全心輔導學生的功課，用無比樂觀的態度再加上創意的點子，那些孩子在走進這間怪異的商店時他們的心智不就被轉變了嗎？所以這像間學校，但又不是學校。它很顯然不是學校，儘管在這裡他們肩並肩，坐在書桌前，擺著鉛筆紙張什麼的。 這是其中一位學生，Khaled Hamdan可以看看他的簡介：沉迷於電視、電玩。在家無法專心。來到這裡。得到輔導的關注。他就徹底的改變了。很快的，他開始寫作。他會提早把功課做完－－變得很習慣於提早把功課做完這對他來講幾乎是上癮了－－然後讓老師檢查一遍確定他做完了就去準備隔天上課的東西。總之他就會做完功課，然後他開始去嘗試別的東西。到現在他已經出版了五本書了。還和別人合寫了一本有關失敗超人們的搞笑劇本叫：《曾經是超人》他還寫了《Balboa企鵝》的系列書敘述一隻很會打－拳擊－的企鵝。然後就在幾星期之前他在Symphony Space念給500個人聽，是“826紐約”辦的慈善活動。現在他天天都到那裡報到。對那個地方充滿熱忱。他帶了他的表親到那裡。已經有四個家族成員每天都到那裡報到了。 時間不多，我要很快的講過去。這是在洛杉磯的《回音公園－時空旅行商店》「不論你何時光臨，我們都在此等候。」這有點像給時空旅客的7–11，你可以看到裡面的擺設，完全就像一個7–11的樣子。水蛭、長毛象牙，他們甚至有自己的思樂冰機器：「機器故障，請昨天再來。」 下面的我就不多介紹了。這些都只是和我們有相同的理念，做相同的事而已。在Pittsfield麻薩諸塞州的世界大道。辛辛那提市的墨水站。加州舊金山的青年之聲，給了我們很大的啟發。聖路易斯的寫作教室。奧斯丁的奧斯丁蝙蝠窟愛爾蘭都柏林的戰鬥文字，由Roddy Doyle發起的會在四月開幕。我現在要進入到TED Wish了－－這樣可以吧 好，我還有一分鐘。我的TED願望：我希望你們－－你們每一個富有創意的個人或組織－－會找到方法直接的幫助你附近的公立學校然後向大家分享你的經驗，希望我們在一年內能有一千個案例－－一千個！－－轉變學生的案例讓我們的教育飛躍成長！而這些也可以是你們早就在做的事情啊。我知道這間房間裡有很多人都在作一些很有趣事情，所以，在網站上告訴我們這些故事並啟發其他的人。 我們架設了一個網頁，我要從「我」換成「我們」希望：我們希望所有聽到這個演講的人能夠引領大眾教育走入一個新的紀元。希望你們能夠運用你的專業和創意與你們社區的創新教育者攜手引領這場變革。讓老師們帶領教學的方向。他們會告訴你怎樣最有幫助。我希望你們會一起來幫忙有幾萬種方式可以幫忙。你可以到你當地的學校和那裡的老師談。他們會告訴你可以做什麼。這個網站是Hot Studio做的，做的相當不錯。網站上已經有很多故事和許多點子了。站名叫：「從前有一間學校」我覺得取的很好。這個網站會記錄每個世界各地的成功計畫。瀏覽這個網站就能看到很多點子。你會大受啟發，一旦你開始了自己的計畫，也請放到這網站上。Hot Studio在很短時間內做得很不錯，參觀一下吧。如果你有任何問題，可以問這個人他是我們國內的負責人。他會在線上或寄信，他會給你回答任何問題。或啟發你，讓你繼續做下去全程指導，好讓你能造成改變。 會很好玩的！這就是我演講的重點－－課輔不必嚴肅。不需要像死板的官僚體系一樣。你可以發揮你的專長幫助學生。學校需要你，老師需要你學生和家長需要你。他們需要你這個幫手身體力行，以你開放的心靈專注的聆聽和無窮的熱情，坐在他們身旁，邊點頭邊聆聽指導他們個幾小時。有些學生就是不知道他們有多棒多麼聰明和多麼有想法。你可以鼓勵他們。你可以把光線照耀在他們身上，一次專注在一位孩子上。希望你們能加入我們謝謝。
