Talk	en	zh-tw
dave_debronkart_meet_e_patient_dave	"It's an amazing thing that we're here to talk about the year of patients rising. You heard stories earlier today about patients who are taking control of their cases, patients who are saying, ""You know what, I know what the odds are, but I'm going to look for more information. I'm going to define what the terms of my success are."" I'm going to be sharing with you how, four years ago, I almost died — found out I was, in fact, already almost dead — and what I then found out about what's called the e-Patient movement. I'll explain what that term means. I had been blogging under the name ""Patient Dave,"" and when I discovered this, I just renamed myself e-Patient Dave. Regarding the word ""patient"": When I first started a few years ago getting involved in health care and attending meetings as just a casual observer, I noticed that people would talk about patients as if it was somebody who's not in the room here — somebody out there. Some of our talks today, we still act like that. But I'm here to tell you: ""patient"" is not a third-person word. All right? You yourself will find yourself in a hospital bed — or your mother, your child — there are heads nodding, people who say, ""Yes, I know exactly what you mean."" So when you hear what I'm going to talk about here today, first of all, I want to say that I am here on behalf of all the patients that I have ever met, all the ones I haven't met. This is about letting patients play a more active role in helping health care, in fixing health care. One of the senior doctors at my hospital, Charlie Safran, and his colleague, Warner Slack, have been saying for decades that the most underutilized resource in all of health care is the patient. They have been saying that since the 1970s. Now, I'm going to step back in history. This is from July, 1969. I was a freshman in college, and this was when we first landed on the Moon. And it was the first time we had ever seen from another surface — that's the place where you and I are right now, where we live. The world was changing. It was about to change in ways that nobody could foresee. A few weeks later, Woodstock happened. Three days of fun and music. Here, just for historical authenticity, is a picture of me in that year. (Laughter) Yeah, the wavy hair, the blue eyes — it was really something. That fall of 1969, the Whole Earth Catalog came out. It was a hippie journal of self-sufficiency. We think of hippies of being just hedonists, but there's a very strong component — I was in that movement — a very strong component of being responsible for yourself. This book's title's subtitle is ""Access to Tools."" It talked about how to build your own house, how to grow your own food, all kinds of things. In the 1980s, this young doctor, Tom Ferguson, was the medical editor of the Whole Earth Catalog. He saw that the great majority of what we do in medicine and health care is taking care of ourselves. In fact, he said it was 70 to 80 percent of how we actually take care of our bodies. Well, he also saw that when health care turns to medical care because of a more serious disease, the key thing that holds us back is access to information. And when the Web came along, that changed everything, because not only could we find information, we could find other people like ourselves who could gather, who could bring us information. And he coined this term ""e-Patients"" — equipped, engaged, empowered, enabled. Obviously, at this stage of life he was in a somewhat more dignified form than he was back then. Now, I was an engaged patient long before I ever heard of the term. In 2006, I went to my doctor for a regular physical, and I had said, ""I have a sore shoulder."" Well, I got an X-ray, and the next morning — you may have noticed, those of you who have been through a medical crisis will understand this. This morning, some of the speakers named the date when they found out about their condition. For me, it was 9am on January 3, 2007. I was at the office; my desk was clean. I had the blue partition carpet on the walls. The phone rang and it was my doctor. He said, ""Dave, I pulled up the X-ray image on the screen on the computer at home."" He said, ""Your shoulder is going to be fine, but Dave, there's something in your lung."" And if you look in that red oval, that shadow was not supposed to be there. To make a long story short, I said, ""So you need me to get back in there?"" He said, ""Yeah, we're going to need to do a CT scan of your chest."" In parting, I said, ""Is there anything I should do?"" He said — think about this one, this is the advice your doctor gives you: ""Just go home and have a glass of wine with your wife."" I went in for the CAT scan. It turns out there were five of these things in both my lungs. So at that point we knew that it was cancer. We knew it wasn't lung cancer. That meant it was metastasized from somewhere. The question was, where from? So I went in for an ultrasound. I got to do what many women have — the jelly on the belly and the, ""Bzzzz!"" My wife came with me. She's a veterinarian, so she's seen lots of ultrasounds. I mean, she knows I'm not a dog. (Laughter) This is an MRI image. This is much sharper than an ultrasound would be. What we saw in that kidney was that big blob there. There were actually two of these: one was growing out the front and had already erupted and latched onto the bowel. One was growing out the back and it attached to the psoas muscle, which is a big muscle in the back that I'd never heard of, but all of a sudden I cared about it. (Laughter) I went home. Now, I've been Googling — I've been online since 1989, on CompuServe. I went home, and I know you can't read the details here; that's not important. My point is, I went to a respected medical website, WebMD, because I know how to filter out junk. I also found my wife online. Before I met her, I went through some suboptimal search results. (Laughter) So I looked for quality information. There's so much about trust — what sources of information can we trust? Where does my body end and an invader start? A cancer, a tumor, is something you grow out of your own tissue. How does that happen? Where does medical ability end and start? Well, so what I read on WebMD: ""The prognosis is poor for progressing renal cell cancer. Almost all patients are incurable."" I've been online long enough to know if I don't like the first results I get, I go look for more. And what I found on other websites was, even by the third page of Google results: ""Outlook is bleak."" ""Prognosis is grim."" And I'm thinking, ""What the heck?"" I didn't feel sick at all. I mean, I'd been getting tired in the evening, but I was 56 years old, you know? I was slowly losing weight, but for me, that was what the doctor told me to do. It was really something. And this is the diagram of stage 4 kidney cancer from the drug I eventually got. Totally by coincidence, there's that thing in my lung. In the left femur, the left thigh bone, there's another one. I had one. My leg eventually snapped. I fainted and landed on it, and it broke. There's one in the skull, and then for good measure, I had these other tumors, including, by the time my treatment started, one was growing out of my tongue. I had kidney cancer growing out of my tongue. And what I read was that my median survival was 24 weeks. This was bad. I was facing the grave. I thought, ""What's my mother's face going to look like on the day of my funeral?"" I had to sit down with my daughter and say, ""Here's the situation."" Her boyfriend was with her. I said, ""I don't want you guys to get married prematurely, just so you can do it while Dad's still alive."" It's really serious. If you wonder why patients are motivated and want to help, think about this. Well, my doctor prescribed a patient community, ACOR.org, a network of cancer patients, of all amazing things. Very quickly they told me, ""Kidney cancer is an uncommon disease. Get yourself to a specialist center. There is no cure, but there's something that sometimes works — it usually doesn't — called high-dosage interleukin. Most hospitals don't offer it, so they won't even tell you it exists. Don't let them give you anything else first. And by the way, here are four doctors in your part of the United States who offer it, and their phone numbers."" How amazing is that? (Applause) Here's the thing: Here we are, four years later — you can't find a website that gives patients that information. Government-approved, American Cancer Society, but patients know what patients want to know. It's the power of patient networks. This amazing substance — again, I mentioned: Where does my body end? My oncologist and I talk a lot these days because I try to keep my talks technically accurate. And he said, ""You know, the immune system is good at detecting invaders, bacteria coming from outside, but when it's your own tissue that you've grown, it's a whole different thing."" And I went through a mental exercise, actually, because I started a patient support community of my own on a website, and one of my friends — one of my relatives, actually — said, ""Look, Dave, who grew this thing? Are you going to set yourself up as mentally attacking yourself?"" So we went into it. The story of how all that happened is in the book. Anyway, this is the way the numbers unfolded. Me being me, I put the numbers from my hospital's website, for my tumor sizes, into a spreadsheet. Don't worry about the numbers. You see, that's the immune system. Amazing thing, those two yellow lines are where I got the two doses of interleukin two months apart. And look at how the tumor sizes plummeted in between. Just incredible. Who knows what we'll be able to do when we learn to make more use of it? The punch line is that a year and a half later, I was there when this magnificent young woman, my daughter, got married. And when she came down those steps, and it was just her and me for that moment, I was so glad that she didn't have to say to her mother, ""I wish Dad could have been here."" And this is what we're doing when we make health care better. Now, I want to talk briefly about a couple of other patients who are doing everything in their power to improve health care. This is Regina Holliday, a painter in Washington DC, whose husband died of kidney cancer a year after my disease. She's painting, here, a mural of his horrible final weeks in the hospital. One of the things that she discovered was that her husband's medical record in this paper folder was just disorganized. And she thought, ""You know, if I have a nutrition facts label on the side of a cereal box, why can't there be something that simple telling every new nurse who comes on duty, every new doctor, the basics about my husband's condition?"" So she painted this medical facts mural with a nutrition label, something like that, in a diagram of him. She then, last year, painted this diagram. She studied health care like me. She came to realize there were a lot of people who'd written patient-advocate books that you just don't hear about at medical conferences. Patients are such an underutilized resource. Well, as it said in my introduction, I've gotten somewhat known for saying that patients should have access to their data. I actually said at one conference a couple of years ago, ""Give me my damn data, because you people can't be trusted to keep it clean."" And here, she has our ""damned"" data — it's a pun — which is starting to break out, starting to break through — the water symbolizes our data. And in fact, I want to do a little something improvisational for you. There's a guy on Twitter that I know, a health IT guy outside Boston, and he wrote the e-Patient rap. And it goes like this. (Laughter) (Beatboxing) (Rapping) Gimme my damn data I wanna be an e-Patient just like Dave Gimme my damn data, 'cause it's my life to save (Normal voice) Now, I'm not going to go any further — (Applause) (Cheering) Well, thank you. That shot the timing. (Laughter) Think about the possibility. Why is it that iPhones and iPads advance far faster than the health tools that are available to you to help take care of your family? Here's a website, VisibleBody.com, that I stumbled across. And I thought, ""You know, I wonder what my psoas muscle is?"" So you can click on things and remove it. And I saw, ""Aha! That's the kidney and the psoas muscle."" I was rotating it in 3D and saying, ""I understand now."" And then I realized it reminded me of Google Earth, where you can fly to any address. And I thought, ""Why not take this and connect it to my digital scan data and have Google Earth for my body?"" What did Google come out with this year? Now there's Google Body browser. But you see, it's still generic. It's not my data. But if we can get that data out from behind the dam so software innovators can pounce on it the way software innovators like to do, who knows what we'll be able to come up with. One final story. This is Kelly Young, a rheumatoid arthritis patient from Florida. This is a live story, unfolding just in the last few weeks. RA patients, as they call themselves — her blog is ""RA Warrior"" — have a big problem, because 40 percent of them have no visible symptoms. And that makes it really hard to tell how the disease is going, and some doctors think, ""Yeah right, you're really in pain."" Well, she found, through her online research, a nuclear bone scan that's usually used for cancer, but it can also reveal inflammation. And she saw that if there is no inflammation, then the scan is a uniform gray. So she took it. And the radiologist's report said, ""No cancer found."" Well, that's not what he was supposed to do with it. So she wanted to have it read again, and her doctor fired her. She pulled up the CD. He said, ""If you don't want to follow my instructions, go away."" So she pulled up the CD of the scan images, and look at all those hot spots. And she's now actively engaged on her blog in looking for assistance in getting better care. See, that is an empowered patient — no medical training. We are, you are, the most underused resource in health care. What she was able to do was because she had access to the raw data. How big a deal was this? Well at TED2009, Tim Berners-Lee himself, inventor of the Web, gave a talk where he said the next big thing is not to have your browser find other people's articles about the data, but the raw data. And he got them chanting by the end of the talk, ""Raw data now! Raw data now!"" And I ask you, three words, please, to improve health care: Let patients help! Let patients help! Let patients help! Let patients help! Thank you. (Applause) For all the patients around the world watching this on the Webcast, God bless you, everyone. Let patients help. Host: And bless yourself. Thank you very much."	"太神奇了，我們能在這裡談談病人崛起年。稍早你們已經聽過有些病人現在能掌控住自己的病情有些病人說：你知道嗎，我知道我有多小的機會，但我要去找尋更多資訊我將要闡述我自己的成功我即將和你們分享我如何在四年前幾乎要死掉時發現我其實已經幾乎死了在那時我也發現所謂的e-病人運動—我等會解釋我所謂的成功是什麼我一直以病人戴維的稱號寫部落格當我發現這樣的事情之後 (e-病人)我就改名為e-病人戴維 關於「病人」這個字，當我幾年前一開始參與健康關懷以一個非正式的觀察者參加會議時我注意到人們談論到病人的感覺好像這個人不在現場似的是某個事不關己的人今天某些演講還是用這種態度但我要告訴你們病人並不是一個第三者你自己有天也會躺在醫院裡或者你的母親和小孩有些人在點頭說「沒錯，我感同身受。」 所以當你聽到我今天要談論的首先，我想要說我僅代表所有我遇過的以及我未曾遇過的病人為了讓病人們扮演一個更積極的角色在幫助及修復健康關懷方面在我醫院裡的一個前輩醫生Charlie Safran以及他的同事Warner Slack數十年來一直宣導的在所有健康關懷的資源裡最沒有被充分利用的就是病人他們從1970年代就一直再宣導這個 現在我要重回歷史在1969年的7月我那時是大學新鮮人那時也是人類第一次登陸地球那是第一次我們得以從另一個地表看地球就是你和我現在的所在我們住的地方當時那個世界正在改變它即將以無人能預知的方式改變幾個星期後伍德斯托克音樂節發生了整整三天的音樂和樂趣為了考據這歷史的真實性這有一張我當年的照片(笑聲)對，波浪捲和藍眼睛蠻酷的 1969年的秋天美國次文化期刊發行了它是一本自給自足的嬉皮雜誌我們以為嬉皮只是享樂主義者但其中有一個很重要的元素，我自己參與過那一場運動一個很重要的元素就是對自己負責這本書標題中的副標題是接近工具它談論到如何建造自己的房子如何栽種自己的食物和所有其他東西在1980年代醫生Tom Ferguson是美國次文化期刊的醫療編輯他發現大部分我們在醫藥和健康醫護上主要是照顧我們自己事實上，他說是有百分之七十至八十我們真正照顧自己的身體而且他也看到當健康關懷轉到醫療關懷時因為一個更嚴重的疾病主要阻止我們的是資料的取得性當網路時代來臨時，一切都改變了因為不只我們能找到資訊我們也能找到有相同狀況的病人可以聚在一起，互相提供資訊他可以加入e-病人的行列有裝備，能專心一致，賦予力量，有能力了明顯地，在此人生階段他比之前更有尊嚴 我是一個專心從事此工作的病人而且早在我聽過這個專有名詞之前2006年時，我為了一個例行檢查去看醫生我說我肩膀痠痛然後就照了X光隔天早上你可能已經發現，尤其是你們之中曾經經歷醫療危機的人就能體會這個早晨，有些講者把發現病情狀況的日期時間表明出來我的是早上9點2007年，1月3日我在辦公室裡，桌上很乾淨牆上有藍色的隔間毯電話響了，是我的醫生打的他說，戴維，我把X光片拉開放在家裡的電腦螢幕上他說，你的肩膀沒事但是戴維你的肺裡有東西如果你看一下那個紅色橢圓物那邊不應該有那種陰影物長話短說所以我得回去醫院嗎?他說，是，我們需要幫你的胸部做個電腦斷層掃描而且告別前我說""我應該做什麼嗎?""他說，考慮一下這個這是你的醫生的良心建議回家和你老婆喝杯酒吧 我進去做電腦斷層掃描結果我兩邊的肺部總共有五個這些東西所以那時我們就知道那是癌症我們知道那不是肺癌它是從別處轉移過來的問題是從哪裡來?所以我去照了超音波我必須做很多女人做的一樣在腹部上塗上膠凍然後滋滋...我老婆和我一起去的他是一個獸醫所以她看了很多超音波我的意思是他知道我不是隻狗但是我們看到的，這是個核磁共振攝影這筆超音波清楚多了我們在腎臟裡看到的是那邊的球狀物而且實際上還有兩個一個長在前面，而且已經爆發深藏在腸子裡一個長在背面，黏在比目魚肌上這是一個我未曾聽聞的背部大肌肉但是突然間我在意起它來我回家 我一直在網路上搜詢資料，自從1989年起我就透過Compuserve上網我回家去，我知道不能在這裡讀到詳細資訊那不重要我的重點是我去了一間很受尊重的醫學網站WebMD因為我知道如何過濾垃圾訊息我也在網路上找到老婆遇到她之前我瀏覽了一些未達理想的搜尋結果(笑聲)所以我尋找有品質的資訊這跟信任有很大的關係我們能信任什麼樣的來源的資訊呢我的身體極限在哪裡侵略者從何開始癌症和腫瘤是從你自己的組織長出來的那是如何發生的?醫療的能耐從哪裡結束和開始?所以我從WebMD讀到病情結果預測不好對進行中的腎組織癌症來說幾乎大部分的病人都是無法治癒的我的網路經驗多到知道如果我不喜歡第一個搜尋結果我就繼續找更多而我找到的是在另一個網站還是在Google搜尋的第三頁裡前景堪慮病情預測嚴酷但我卻在想著，搞什麼鬼我一點也不覺得病了我意思是說，我晚上會感到累但我已經五十歲了啊我的體重慢慢下降但是對我來說，是醫生叫我這樣做的這真是很酷 這是腎臟癌第四期的圖表最終我終於從我吃的藥得到完全是巧合，在我肺裡有那東西在左邊的股骨，左邊的大腿骨，有另一個我曾經有過一個，我的腿最後斷裂了我昏倒然後倒在腳上，然後就斷了頭骨裡也有一個然後為了好的測量，我還有其他腫瘤包括在內，就在我的治療開始時我的舌頭長出了一個我的舌頭長出了腎臟瘤我讀到的剩下的日子是24周這真糟我快死了我想，我媽到時候看起來會如何在我的喪禮那天我必須和我女兒坐下來說「情況是這樣」她男友和她一起我說我不希望你們太早結婚只是希望你們能在爸爸還在時結婚這真的很嚴肅因為如果你覺得奇怪為什麼病人會主動幫忙這樣想吧 我的醫生開給我的處方是一個病人社群Acor組織網站一個有著各種好東西的癌症病人網站他們很快地告訴我腎臟癌是一個罕見的疾病趕快去找一個專家中心雖然沒有治癒方法，但是有時候還是有些有用的東西—通常是沒用的—叫做高劑量白細胞介素大部分醫院沒有提供所以他們甚至不會告訴你有這種東西而且不要讓他們先給你任何其他東西順道一提，有四個醫生在你住的美國區域裡，他們提供這種藥還有他們的電話是不是很棒? (鼓掌) 問題是四年後的現在你找不到提供病人這個訊息的網站政府核准的，美國癌症社群但是病人知道病人想知道的這是病人網絡的力量這個驚人實體再提到我之前說過的，我的身體的極限在哪裡?這些日子以來，我的腫瘤學家和我談了很多。因為我試著讓我的演講技術上是正確的他說，你知道吧，免疫系統很擅長偵測入侵者細菌是從外面來的但如果長得是自己的身體組織那就完全是另一回事了實際上我經歷了一場心理運動因為我自己開了一個病人支持社群在一個網站上然後我一個朋友，事實上是我一個親戚說，戴維，是誰長了這些東西?你要設陷阱給自己嗎?用心理戰打自己所以我們開始討論它這些如何發生的故事都在這本書裡 總之，這些數字呈現出來的就是這樣為了做自己，我把我的醫院網站上的數字我的腫瘤大小數字做成一個電子表格別管那些數字你看，那是免疫系統驚人的是，那兩條黃色線是我注射了兩劑量的白細胞介素兩個月後你看腫瘤的大小在期間急速縮小了真是令人難以置信誰知道如果我們學會多利用它會讓我們能夠做到什麼 關鍵句就是一年半後我當時在場，當我的女兒，這個年輕優秀的女人結婚時當她走下那些台階時當時只有她和我我好欣慰她不必和她母親說我好希望父親能在這裡這就是我們在做的當我們使健康關懷更好時 現在我要簡單談一下幾個其他病人他們盡所能再改進健康關懷這位是Regina Holliday住在華盛頓的病人在我疾病發生後一年死於腎臟癌她在這裡畫了一個壁畫有關她先生在醫院的最後幾個禮拜她發現其中一件事就是她的先生的醫療紀錄在這個文件資料夾裡雜亂無章然後她這樣想，如果我有一個營養標籤在麥片盒側邊那為什麼不能有某個簡單的東西可以告訴每個值勤的新護士每個新醫生有關我先生狀況的基本資料呢?所以她畫了這個醫學事實壁畫用一個營養標籤某個像這樣的東西圖解她先生的狀況去年，她畫了這個圖表 她也和我一樣研究健康關懷她慢慢知道有很多人在寫擁護病人的書在醫學會議裡是不會聽到的病人是多麼不被充分利用的資源啊就像我在介紹裡說的我有資格說病人們應該有拿到他們資料的管道實際上，幾年前我已經在一個會議裡說過了把我的資料數據給我因為你們沒辦法被信任能夠保持它的完整性聽到她有我們該死的資料數據這是雙關語開始'要崩潰，衝破水象徵我們的數據資料 事實上，我想為你們做一些即興的事我認識一個在推特上的男孩一個住在波士頓外的健康工程師他寫了一個e-病人饒舌歌是這樣唱的給我我該死的資料我想和戴福一樣做一個網路病人給我該死的資料，因為要救就是我的生命好了，我不唱下去了(鼓掌)謝謝，時間剛剛好 (掌聲) 想想這個可能性為什麼蘋果手機和電子書先進的快多了比起那些可以讓你使用的健康工具來幫助關懷家人這裡有個網站，可透視身體網站我不小心看到我想，你知道嗎?我在想我的比目魚肌長怎樣?所以你可以點點看那個東西也可以移動它然後我看到了，喔!那就是腎臟和比目魚肌。然後我把它用3D旋轉然後說，我了解了。然後我領悟到它讓我想到Google地球你可以像飛的一樣到任何地址然後我想，為什麼不利用這個然後連結到我的數位掃描資料然後創造出我身體的Google地球?今年Google發佈了什麼?現在有Google身體瀏覽器不過他還是通用性的不是我的數據資料但是如果我們可以從水壩後得到數據所以軟體研發者可以抓住這個機會就像它們喜歡做的事一樣誰知道我們能做出什麼來 最後一個故事，這位是Kelly Young一個類風濕關節炎的病人來自佛羅里達這是一個真實故事在前幾個禮拜前才被發現RA病人，他們這樣稱呼自己—她的部落格是RA戰士—有一個大麻煩因為他門之中有百分之40沒有明顯症狀這讓人們很難能去判斷這個疾病的狀況有些醫生認為，嗯，對!你真的很痛苦從她的網路上搜尋中，她發現一個核子骨頭掃描通常是用於癌症但也用來發現炎症然後她了解如果沒有發炎那掃描結果會是整個灰色所以她做了掃描放射科醫生報告說，沒有發現癌症但那不是他應該做的所以她又再次讓掃描結果被解讀一次，她想這麼做。於是她的醫生開除了她她把光碟拉出來他說，如果你不遵照我的指示就走開所以她拉出掃描'影像的CD看著那些熱點現在她很積極地在寫部落格想尋找更好的護理協助看吧，那是一個有力量的病人，沒有受過醫學訓練 我們，你們都是在健康護理裡最不被充分利用的資源她之所以能做到這樣是因為她能取得原始數據資料這是多麼大的一件事啊?在TED2009年網路發明人Tim Berners-Lee他自己演講到下一個大事件不是去瀏覽網站去發現他人有關數據資料的文章而是有關原始資料然後他讓大家在演講後一起口誦現在就要原始資料現在就要原始資料我需要你這麼做請說三個字來改進健康醫護讓病人幫助病人讓病人幫助病人讓病人幫助病人讓病人幫助病人 謝謝 (鼓掌) 給所有全世界的病人在網路上看著轉播的你們願上帝保佑你，每一個人，讓病人幫助病人。 主持人: 願上帝也保佑你。非常謝謝你們。"
