Talk	en	zh-tw
david_r_williams_how_racism_makes_us_sick	"An article in the Yale Alumni Magazine told the story of Clyde Murphy, a black man who was a member of the Class of 1970. Clyde was a success story. After Yale and a law degree from Columbia, Clyde spent the next 30 years as one of America's top civil rights lawyers. He was also a great husband and father. But despite his success, personally and professionally, Clyde's story had a sad ending. In 2010, at the age of 62, Clyde died from a blood clot in his lung. Clyde's experience was not unique. Many of his black classmates from Yale also died young. In fact, the magazine article indicated that 41 years after graduation from Yale, the black members of the Class of 1970 had a death rate that was three times higher than that of the average class member. It's stunning. America has recently awakened to a steady drumbeat of unarmed black men being shot by the police. What is even a bigger story is that every seven minutes, a black person dies prematurely in the United States. That is over 200 black people die every single day who would not die if the health of blacks and whites were equal. For the last 25 years, I have been on a mission to understand why does race matter so profoundly for health. When I started my career, many believed that it was simply about racial differences in income and education. I discovered that while economic status matters for health, there is more to the story. So for example, if we look at life expectancy at age 25, at age 25 there's a five-year gap between blacks and whites. And the gap by education for both whites and blacks is even larger than the racial gap. At the same time, at every level of education, whites live longer than blacks. So whites who are high school dropouts live 3.4 years longer than their black counterparts, and the gap is even larger among college graduates. Most surprising of all, whites who have graduated from high school live longer than blacks with a college degree or more education. So why does race matter so profoundly for health? What else is it beyond education and income that might matter? In the early 1990s, I was asked to review a new book on the health of black America. I was struck that almost every single one of its 25 chapters said that racism was a factor that was hurting the health of blacks. All of these researchers were stating that racism was a factor adversely impacting blacks, but they provided no evidence. For me, that was not good enough. A few months later, I was speaking at a conference in Washington, DC, and I said that one of the priorities for research was to document the ways in which racism affected health. A white gentleman stood in the audience and said that while he agreed with me that racism was important, we could never measure racism. ""We measure self-esteem,"" I said. ""There's no reason why we can't measure racism if we put our minds to it."" And so I put my mind to it and developed three scales. The first one captured major experiences of discrimination, like being unfairly fired or being unfairly stopped by the police. But discrimination also occurs in more minor and subtle experiences, and so my second scale, called the Everyday Discrimination Scale, captures nine items that captures experiences like you're treated with less courtesy than others, you receive poorer service than others in restaurants or stores, or people act as if they're afraid of you. This scale captures ways in which the dignity and the respect of people who society does not value is chipped away on a daily basis. Research has found that higher levels of discrimination are associated with an elevated risk of a broad range of diseases from blood pressure to abdominal obesity to breast cancer to heart disease and even premature mortality. Strikingly, some of the effects are observed at a very young age. For example, a study of black teens found that those who reported higher levels of discrimination as teenagers had higher levels of stress hormones, of blood pressure and of weight at age 20. However, the stress of discrimination is only one aspect. Discrimination and racism also matters in other profound ways for health. For example, there's discrimination in medical care. In 1999, the National Academy of Medicine asked me to serve on a committee that found, concluded based on the scientific evidence, that blacks and other minorities receive poorer quality care than whites. This was true for all kinds of medical treatment, from the most simple to the most technologically sophisticated. One explanation for this pattern was a phenomenon that's called ""implicit bias"" or ""unconscious discrimination."" Research for decades by social psychologists indicates that if you hold a negative stereotype about a group in your subconscious mind and you meet someone from that group, you will discriminate against that person. You will treat them differently. It's an unconscious process. It's an automatic process. It is a subtle process, but it's normal and it occurs even among the most well-intentioned individuals. But the deeper that I delved into the health impact of racism, the more insidious the effects became. There is institutional discrimination, which refers to discrimination that exists in the processes of social institutions. Residential segregation by race, which has led to blacks and whites living in very different neighborhood contexts, is a classic example of institutional racism. One of America's best-kept secrets is how residential segregation is the secret source that creates racial inequality in the United States. In America, where you live determines your access to opportunities in education, in employment, in housing and even in access to medical care. One study of the 171 largest cities in the United States concluded that there is not even one city where whites live under equal conditions to blacks, and that the worst urban contexts in which whites reside is considerably better than the average context of black communities. Another study found that if you could eliminate statistically residential segregation, you would completely erase black-white differences in income, education and unemployment, and reduce black-white differences in single motherhood by two thirds, all of that driven by segregation. I have also learned how the negative stereotypes and images of blacks in our culture literally create and sustain both institutional and individual discrimination. A group of researchers have put together a database that contains the books, magazines and articles that an average college-educated American would read over their lifetime. It allows us to look within this database and see how Americans have seen words paired together as they grow up in their society. So when the word ""black"" appears in American culture, what co-occurs with it? ""Poor,"" ""violent,"" ""religious,"" ""lazy,"" ""cheerful,"" ""dangerous."" When ""white"" occurs, the frequently co-occurring words are ""wealthy,"" ""progressive,"" ""conventional,"" ""stubborn,"" ""successful,"" ""educated."" So when a police officer overreacts when he sees an unarmed black male and perceives him to be violent and dangerous, we are not necessarily dealing with an inherently bad cop. We may be simply viewing a normal American who is reflecting what he has been exposed to as a result of being raised in this society. From my own experience, I believe that your race does not have to be a determinant of your destiny. I migrated to the United States from the Caribbean island of Saint Lucia in the late 1970s in pursuit of higher education, and in the last 40 years, I have done well. I have had a supportive family, I have worked hard, I have done well. But it took more for me to be successful. I received a minority fellowship from the University of Michigan. Yes. I am an affirmative action baby. Without affirmative action, I would not be here. But in the last 40 years, black America has been less successful than I have. In 1978, black households in the United States earned 59 cents for every dollar of income whites earned. In 2015, black families still earn 59 cents for every dollar of income that white families receive, and the racial gaps in wealth are even more stunning. For every dollar of wealth that whites have, black families have six pennies and Latinos have seven pennies. The fact is, racism is producing a truly rigged system that is systematically disadvantaging some racial groups in the United States. To paraphrase Plato, there is nothing so unfair as the equal treatment of unequal people. And that's why I am committed to working to dismantle racism. I deeply appreciate the fact that I am standing on the shoulders of those who have sacrificed even their lives to open the doors that I have walked through. I want to ensure that those doors remain open and that everyone can walk through those doors. Robert Kennedy said, ""Each time a man"" — or woman, I would add — ""stands up for an ideal or acts to improve the lot of others or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and those ripples can build a current that can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance."" I am optimistic today because all across America, I have seen ripples of hope. The Boston Medical Center has added lawyers to the medical team so that physicians can improve the health of their patients because the lawyers are addressing the nonmedical needs their patients have. Loma Linda University has built a gateway college in nearby San Bernardino so that in addition to delivering medical care, they can provide job skills and job training to a predominantly minority, low-income community members so that they will have the skills they need to get a decent job. In Chapel Hill, North Carolina, the Abecedarian Project has figured out how to ensure that they have lowered the risks for heart disease for blacks in their mid-30s by providing high-quality day care from birth to age five. In after-school centers across the United States, Wintley Phipps and the US Dream Academy is breaking the cycle of incarceration by providing high-quality academic enrichment and mentoring to the children of prisoners and children who have fallen behind in school. In Huntsville, Alabama, Oakwood University, a historically black institution, is showing how we can improve the health of black adults by including a health evaluation as a part of freshman orientation and giving those students the tools they need to make healthy choices and providing them annually a health transcript so they can monitor their progress. And in Atlanta, Georgia, Purpose Built Communities has dismantled the negative effects of segregation by transforming a crime-ridden, drug-infested public housing project into an oasis of mixed-income housing, of academic performance, of great community wellness and of full employment. And finally, there is the Devine solution. Professor Patricia Devine of the University of Wisconsin has shown us how we can attack our hidden biases head on and effectively reduce them. Each one of us can be a ripple of hope. This work will not always be easy, but former Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall has told us, ""We must dissent. We must dissent from the indifference. We must dissent from the apathy. We must dissent from the hatred and from the mistrust. We must dissent because America can do better, because America has no choice but to do better."" Thank you. (Applause)"	耶魯大學的校友雜誌中，敘述了克萊德．漠菲的故事，他是在 1970 年畢業的一個黑人。克萊德是一個成功的案例。從耶魯大學畢業後，他順利取得哥倫比亞大學法律學位，接下來三十年，他成為了一名美國頂尖的民權律師。同時，他也是一位很好的丈夫與父親。雖然克萊德的私人生活以及事業 都算是相當完美成功，但他的生活最後卻以悲劇告終。 在 2010 年，克萊德 62 歲，死於肺血栓塞。克萊德的案例並不獨特。許多跟他一起從耶魯大學畢業的黑人，都很早過世。雜誌中曾有文章指出，從耶魯大學畢業 41 年後，1970 年畢業的黑人其死亡率比同期班上其他同學的平均死亡率還要高三倍。太驚人了。 美國最近持續發生令人警醒的事情，許多未武裝的黑人被警察射殺。更嚴重的是，每七分鐘就有一個黑人比預期中提早死亡。每一天都有超過 200 多個黑人，因為其與白人之間的健康條件不平等而死亡。 過去 25 年來，我一直肩負使命努力去了解為什麼一個人的種族會如此影響他的健康。當我剛開始我的工作時，許多人認為那只是因為不同種族有著收入與教育程度之差別。我發現雖然經濟處境會影響一個人的健康，但是事實遠不止於此。比如說，我們來看看年輕人的預期壽命，25 歲的白人預期可以比同年齡的黑人多活五年。受教育程度不同所造成的死亡年齡差距比種族鴻溝造成的更大。同時，每一個教育階段的白人，都比黑人活得久。高中輟學的白人比高中輟學的黑人還要多活 3.4 年，來比較大學畢業生的話，差距則更大。最讓我驚訝的是，只有高中畢業的白人比起有大學以上學歷的黑人活得更久。 到底為什麼一個人的種族會如此影響他的健康？除了教育程度與收入之外還有什麼原因呢？ 1990 年代早期，有人請我複審一本關於黑人健康的書。我發現書中的 25 個章節裡，幾乎每一個章節都提到種族歧視是傷害黑人的健康的重要因素。這些研究者都指出種族歧視是負面影響黑人生活的一個因素。但他們沒有提出證據。對我來說，那是遠遠不夠的。 幾個月之後，我在華盛頓發表演講，我提出我研究中的當務之急就是記錄種族歧視如何影響健康。一個白人男士站起來說，雖然他對我表示贊同，認為種族歧視很重要，但是我們永遠無法衡量它。我回答道，我們可以衡量自尊心。如果我們認真對待這件事，那就沒有理由說我們無法衡量種族歧視。 所以我全力以赴，並發展出一個三步驟衡量法。第一是對被歧視的經歷進行評估，比如說，不公平地被辭職，或是被警察攔著。但是歧視通常發生在更細小且不易察覺的層面上，所以我的第二步驟叫做 每日歧視比例尺。它包含九項條目，比如體驗到你所受到的禮遇不如他人，在餐館受到其次的待遇，或著是人們看到你會感到害怕。這個尺很明顯地表示出一般社會人士瞧不起的人，他們的尊嚴與自尊心會每一天一點一點地被侵蝕。 我的研究指出，隨著歧視的惡化更多的疾病會產生，從高血壓到肥胖症，從乳癌到心臟病，甚至提早死亡。讓人驚訝的是，很多負面的作用在年輕人身上就能發現。比如說，一個研究黑人青少年的研究指出，在青少年期受到越多歧視的孩子們，在二十歲那年相對的有越多的壓力荷爾蒙，更高的血壓，更重的體重。但是，受到歧視會有更大的壓力只是許多問題的其中一個。 不公平待遇與種族歧視還有更多不同影響健康的方法。比如說，醫療制度的不公平待遇。在 1999 年，全國醫療協會請我在一個委員會中幫忙，過程中，我們藉由科學證明，黑人與其他少數民族比白人還要受到更差的醫療服務。各式各樣的醫療服務都相對更差，從最基本的到最複雜的。其中一個原因是一個叫做「隱性偏見」的現象，又稱「淺意識歧視。」十多年來，社會學家的研究指出如果你對某些人種有負面的刻板印象，當你遇到一個那個種族的人，你會對那個人有歧視。你會不公平的對待他。整個過程是淺意識的。是自動化的。是個微妙但也正常的的過程，連最善意的人也可能會犯的錯誤。 我越是更深層地研究種族歧視，我越發現它的隱患。我發現連最基本的社會制度都有嚴重的歧視存在。社區因為不同種族而隔離，造成白人與黑人住在非常不同的社區，是最典型的社會制度種族歧視。美國最大的一個秘密，就是社區的隔離是造成種族不平等的秘密來源。在美國，你住哪會影響一個人的教育與工作機會，連醫療制度與找房子都會受到影響。有一個研究指出美國前 171 的大城市當中，沒有一個城市是白人與黑人的居住環境是平等的，而且當中住在最爛的環境的白人都還是比一般的黑人住的還要好。另外一個研究指出，如果我們能夠在統計上排除社區隔離，我們就能夠排除黑白種族在收入、教育、失業率、單親媽媽等等的差別，拉近三分之二的差距，這些都是因為隔離造成的。我同時瞭解到我們對黑人的負面的刻板印象，確實地造成制度與個人的偏見。 一群科學家收集了一批數據，裡面有大學畢業的普通美國人一輩子下來會閱讀的書本、雜誌與報刊，收集起來研究他們的內容，我們藉此找出美國人在長大的過程中讀到某些詞彙時，聯想到什麼。當美國人看到「黑人」這個字時，他們通常同時看到的字是什麼？「窮苦」、「暴力」、「有虔誠信仰」、「懶惰」、「開心」、「危險。」當 「白人」 出現時，經常發生的詞彙是「富有」、「先進」、「常見」、「固執」、「成功」、「有受教育。」因此當一個警察看到一個未武裝的黑人，卻緊張地以為他是危險人物，我們面對的不見得是一個不好的警察。他只不過是一個顯現出受到這個社會長期薰陶而長大的普通美國人而已。 我的經驗告訴我，你的種族並不一定要註定你的終身。我在 1970 年代末，從加勒比海小島聖露西亞移民到美國來念大學，接下來 40 年，我混得不錯。我有個支持我的家庭，我努力地工作，我得到了許多。但是那還不夠讓我成功。密西根大學給了我少數民族的獎學金。是的。我是一個平權措施的寶寶。沒有平權措施，我不可能有今天。 但是以往 40 年來，美國的黑人沒有我成功。在 1978 年，白人家庭每賺一塊錢，黑人家庭只賺 59 分。在 2015 年，當白人家庭賺一塊錢美金，黑人家庭仍然只賺 59 分，而且種族差別造成的貧富懸殊更加嚴重。白人擁有的每一塊錢，黑人家庭只有 6 分，中南美的家庭只有 7 分錢。 實話說，種族歧視造成了一個不公平的系統，一個徹底損害某些美國人種的系統。改述一下柏拉圖曾經說的，世界上沒有比平等對待不平等的人民，還要更不平等的事情了。因此我這麼投入地想要拆除種族歧視。 我深刻領悟到我能夠有今天，是因為有許多前人犧牲自我，替我們打造了一條通路好讓我們通過。我希望這條通路繼續維持暢通，讓更多人通過。羅伯特甘迺迪說：「每當一個男人」──我還要加上或是女人──「為了理想而奮鬥，或者是為了大眾的利益而與不公平打鬥，小小的希望之波浪就會慢慢地前進，小小的波浪聚集在一起變成大急流。沖倒壓制與抵抗的高牆。」 今天我非常的樂觀，因為在全美國，我都有看到希望的小波浪。波士頓醫療中心，請了律師加入他們的醫療團，所以當醫生在治療病人的過程中，律師可以順便處理病人跟醫療無關的問題。羅馬林達大學在聖貝納迪諾附近蓋了一間技術學院，所以當他們提供醫療服務的同時，他們可以教導工作技能，給弱勢團體，與低收入的人們，給他們機會找到好一點的工作。在北卡羅萊納州的教堂山附近的初學者計畫，發現如何減少 30 歲的黑人得心臟病的機率，方法是提供高品質的0 歲到 5 歲的幼兒園。美國的課後安親班當中，溫特理．非浦思與美國夢想學院，藉由高品質的輔導與細心的帶領減少了囚犯的孩子、與在學校落後的孩子邁上不歸之路。在阿拉巴馬州的亨茨維爾，歐克伍德大學是個有史以來都是黑人學生的機構，他們在學生入學時新生介紹當天，提供每個學生健康檢查，而且提供學生許多健康資訊，好讓他們有足夠的智慧去選擇美好的生活習慣，接下來每一年都複診，讓年輕人可以持續維持自己的健康。在喬治亞州的亞特蘭大城，重新建設的社區打破隔離現象，把充滿犯罪行為、販毒的公營低收入戶住宅，變成一個綜合收入水準、教育水準，社區本身健康又充滿工作機會的社區。最後，還有迪文方案。派翠莎．迪文教授在威康森大學告訴我們如何打破我們潛在的偏見，有效率地減少它。我們每一個人都可以是希望之波浪。 過程不會簡單，前最高法院法官瑟古德．馬歇爾說：「我們必須要持異議。我們必須要反對漠不關心。我們必須要反對冷淡。我們必須要反對仇恨與不信賴。我們必須要持異議，因為美國可以更好，因為美國除了更好之外沒有其他的選擇。」 謝謝。 （掌聲）
