Talk	en	zh-tw
david_blaine_how_i_held_my_breath_for_17_min	"As a magician, I try to create images that make people stop and think. I also try to challenge myself to do things that doctors say are not possible. I was buried alive in New York City in a coffin, buried alive in a coffin in April, 1999, for a week. I lived there with nothing but water. And it ended up being so much fun that I decided I could pursue doing more of these things. The next one is I froze myself in a block of ice for three days and three nights in New York City. That one was way more difficult than I had expected. The one after that, I stood on top of a hundred-foot pillar for 36 hours. I began to hallucinate so hard that the buildings that were behind me started to look like big animal heads. So, next I went to London. In London I lived in a glass box for 44 days with nothing but water. It was, for me, one of the most difficult things I'd ever done, but it was also the most beautiful. There was so many skeptics, especially the press in London, that they started flying cheeseburgers on helicopters around my box to tempt me. (Laughter) So, I felt very validated when the New England Journal of Medicine actually used the research for science. My next pursuit was I wanted to see how long I could go without breathing, like how long I could survive with nothing, not even air. I didn't realize that it would become the most amazing journey of my life. As a young magician, I was obsessed with Houdini and his underwater challenges. So, I began, early on, competing against the other kids, seeing how long I could stay underwater while they went up and down to breathe, you know, five times, while I stayed under on one breath. By the time I was a teenager, I was able to hold my breath for three minutes and 30 seconds. I would later find out that was Houdini's personal record. In 1987 I heard of a story about a boy that fell through ice and was trapped under a river. He was underneath, not breathing for 45 minutes. When the rescue workers came, they resuscitated him and there was no brain damage. His core temperature had dropped to 77 degrees. As a magician, I think everything is possible. And I think if something is done by one person, it can be done by others. I started to think, if the boy could survive without breathing for that long, there must be a way that I could do it. So, I met with a top neurosurgeon. And I asked him, how long is it possible to go without breathing, like how long could I go without air? And he said to me that anything over six minutes you have a serious risk of hypoxic brain damage. So, I took that as a challenge, basically. (Laughter) My first try, I figured that I could do something similar, and I created a water tank, and I filled it with ice and freezing cold water. And I stayed inside of that water tank hoping my core temperature would start to drop. And I was shivering. In my first attempt to hold my breath, I couldn't even last a minute. So, I realized that was completely not going to work. I went to talk to a doctor friend — and I asked him, ""How could I do that?"" ""I want to hold my breath for a really long time. How could it be done?"" And he said, ""David, you're a magician, create the illusion of not breathing, it will be much easier."" (Laughter) So, he came up with this idea of creating a rebreather, with a CO2 scrubber, which was basically a tube from Home Depot, with a balloon duct-taped to it, that he thought we could put inside of me, and somehow be able to circulate the air and rebreathe with this thing in me. This is a little hard to watch. But this is that attempt. So, that clearly wasn't going to work. (Laughter) Then I actually started thinking about liquid breathing. There is a chemical that's called perflubron. And it's so high in oxygen levels that in theory you could breathe it. So, I got my hands on that chemical, filled the sink up with it, and stuck my face in the sink and tried to breathe that in, which was really impossible. It's basically like trying to breathe, as a doctor said, while having an elephant standing on your chest. So, that idea disappeared. Then I started thinking, would it be possible to hook up a heart/lung bypass machine and have a surgery where it was a tube going into my artery, and then appear to not breathe while they were oxygenating my blood? Which was another insane idea, obviously. Then I thought about the craziest idea of all the ideas: to actually do it. (Laughter) To actually try to hold my breath past the point that doctors would consider you brain dead. So, I started researching into pearl divers. You know, because they go down for four minutes on one breath. And when I was researching pearl divers, I found the world of free-diving. It was the most amazing thing that I ever discovered, pretty much. There is many different aspects to free-diving. There is depth records, where people go as deep as they can. And then there is static apnea. That's holding your breath as long as you can in one place without moving. That was the one that I studied. The first thing that I learned is when you're holding your breath, you should never move at all; that wastes energy. And that depletes oxygen, and it builds up CO2 in your blood. So, I learned never to move. And I learned how to slow my heart rate down. I had to remain perfectly still and just relax and think that I wasn't in my body, and just control that. And then I learned how to purge. Purging is basically hyperventilating. You blow in and out — (Breathing loudly) You do that, you get lightheaded, you get tingling. And you're really ridding your body of CO2. So, when you hold your breath, it's infinitely easier. Then I learned that you have to take a huge breath, and just hold and relax and never let any air out, and just hold and relax through all the pain. Every morning, this is for months, I would wake up and the first thing that I would do is I would hold my breath for, out of 52 minutes, I would hold my breath for 44 minutes. So, basically what that means is I would purge, I'd breathe really hard for a minute. And I would hold, immediately after, for five and a half minutes. Then I would breathe again for a minute, purging as hard as I can, then immediately after that I would hold again for five and a half minutes. I would repeat this process eight times in a row. Out of 52 minutes, you're only breathing for eight minutes. At the end of that you're completely fried, your brain. You feel like you're walking around in a daze. And you have these awful headaches. Basically, I'm not the best person to talk to when I'm doing that stuff. I started learning about the world-record holder. His name is Tom Sietas. And this guy is perfectly built for holding his breath. He's six foot four. He's 160 pounds. And his total lung capacity is twice the size of an average person. I'm six foot one, and fat. We'll say big-boned. (Laughter) I had to drop 50 pounds in three months. So, everything that I put into my body, I considered as medicine. Every bit of food was exactly what it was for its nutritional value. I ate really small controlled portions throughout the day. And I started to really adapt my body. [Individual results may vary] (Laughter) The thinner I was, the longer I was able to hold my breath. And by eating so well and training so hard, my resting heart-rate dropped to 38 beats per minute. Which is lower than most Olympic athletes. In four months of training, I was able to hold my breath for over seven minutes. I wanted to try holding my breath everywhere. I wanted to try it in the most extreme situations to see if I could slow my heart rate down under duress. (Laughter) I decided that I was going to break the world record live on prime-time television. The world record was eight minutes and 58 seconds, held by Tom Sietas, that guy with the whale lungs I told you about. I assumed that I could put a water tank at Lincoln Center and if I stayed there a week not eating, I would get comfortable in that situation and I would slow my metabolism, which I was sure would help me hold my breath longer than I had been able to do it. I was completely wrong. I entered the sphere a week before the scheduled air date. And I thought everything seemed to be on track. Two days before my big breath-hold attempt, for the record, the producers of my television special thought that just watching somebody holding their breath, and almost drowning, is too boring for television. (Laughter) So, I had to add handcuffs, while holding my breath, to escape from. This was a critical mistake. Because of the movement, I was wasting oxygen. And by seven minutes I had gone into these awful convulsions. By 7:08, I started to black out. And by seven minutes and 30 seconds, they had to pull my body out and bring me back. I had failed on every level. (Laughter) So, naturally, the only way out of the slump that I could think of was, I decided to call Oprah. (Laughter) I told her that I wanted to up the ante and hold my breath longer than any human being ever had. This was a different record. This was a pure O2 static apnea record that Guinness had set the world record at 13 minutes. So, basically you breathe pure O2 first, oxygenating your body, flushing out CO2, and you are able to hold much longer. I realized that my real competition was the beaver. (Laughter) (Laughter ends) In January of '08, Oprah gave me four months to prepare and train. So, I would sleep in a hypoxic tent every night. A hypoxic tent is a tent that simulates altitude at 15,000 feet. So, it's like base camp, Everest. What that does is, you start building up the red bloodcell count in your body, which helps you carry oxygen better. Every morning, again, after getting out of that tent, your brain is completely wiped out. My first attempt on pure O2, I was able to go up to 15 minutes. So, it was a pretty big success. The neurosurgeon pulled me out of the water because in his mind, at 15 minutes your brain is done, you're brain dead. So, he pulled me up, and I was fine. There was one person there that was definitely not impressed. It was my ex-girlfriend. While I was breaking the record underwater for the first time, she was sifting through my Blackberry, checking all my messages. (Laughter) My brother had a picture of it. It is really — (Laughter) (Laughter ends) I then announced that I was going to go for Sietas' record, publicly. And what he did in response, is he went on Regis and Kelly, and broke his old record. Then his main competitor went out and broke his record. So, he suddenly pushed the record up to 16 minutes and 32 seconds. Which was three minutes longer than I had prepared. It was longer than the record. I wanted to get the Science Times to document this. I wanted to get them to do a piece on it. So, I did what any person seriously pursuing scientific advancement would do. I walked into the New York Times offices and did card tricks to everybody. (Laughter) So, I don't know if it was the magic or the lure of the Cayman Islands, but John Tierney flew down and did a piece on the seriousness of breath-holding. While he was there, I tried to impress him, of course. And I did a dive down to 160 feet, which is basically the height of a 16 story building, and as I was coming up, I blacked out underwater, which is really dangerous; that's how you drown. Luckily, Kirk had seen me and he swam over and pulled me up. So, I started full focus. I completely trained to get my breath-hold time up for what I needed to do. But there was no way to prepare for the live television aspect of it, being on Oprah. But in practice, I would do it face down, floating on the pool. But for TV they wanted me to be upright so they could see my face, basically. The other problem was the suit was so buoyant that they had to strap my feet in to keep me from floating up. So, I had to use my legs to hold my feet into the straps that were loose, which was a real problem for me. That made me extremely nervous, raising the heart rate. Then, what they also did was, which we never did before, is there was a heart-rate monitor. And it was right next to the sphere. So, every time my heart would beat, I'd hear the beep-beep-beep-beep, you know, the ticking, really loud. Which was making me more nervous. And there was no way to slow my heart rate down. Normally, I would start at 38 beats per minute, and while holding my breath, it would drop to 12 beats per minute, which is pretty unusual. (Laughter) This time it started at 120 beats, and it never went down. I spent the first five minutes underwater desperately trying to slow my heart rate down. I was just sitting there thinking, ""I've got to slow this down. I'm going to fail."" And I was getting more nervous. And the heart rate just kept going up and up, all the way up to 150 beats. Basically it's the same thing that created my downfall at Lincoln Center. It was a waste of O2. When I made it to the halfway mark, at eight minutes, I was 100 percent certain that I was not going to be able to make this. There was no way for me to do it. I figured, Oprah had dedicated an hour to doing this breath-hold thing, if I had cracked early, it would be a whole show about how depressed I am. (Laughter) So, I figured I'm better off just fighting and staying there until I black out, at least then they can pull me out and take care of me and all that. (Laughter) I kept pushing to 10 minutes. At 10 minutes you start getting all these really strong tingling sensations in your fingers and toes. And I knew that that was blood shunting, when the blood rushes away from your extremities to provide oxygen to your vital organs. At 11 minutes I started feeling throbbing sensations in my legs, and my lips started to feel really strange. At minute 12 I started to have ringing in my ears, and I started to feel my arm going numb. And I'm a hypochondriac, and I remember arm numb means heart attack. So, I started to really get really paranoid. Then at 13 minutes, maybe because of the hypochondria, I started feeling pains all over my chest. It was awful. (Laughter) At 14 minutes, I had these awful contractions, like this urge to breathe. (Laughter) (Laughter ends) At 15 minutes I was suffering major O2 deprivation to the heart. And I started having ischemia to the heart. My heartbeat would go from 120 to 50, to 150, to 40, to 20, to 150 again. It would skip a beat. It would start. It would stop. And I felt all this. And I was sure that I was going to have a heart attack. So, at 16 minutes what I did is I slid my feet out because I knew that if I did go out, if I did have a heart attack, they'd have to jump into the binding and take my feet out before pulling me up. I was really nervous. I let my feet out, and I started floating to the top. And I didn't take my head out. But I was just floating there waiting for my heart to stop, just waiting. They had doctors with the ""Pst,"" you know, sitting there waiting. And then suddenly I hear screaming. And I think that there is some weird thing — that I had died or something had happened. And then I realized that I had made it to 16:32. So, with the energy of everybody that was there, I decided to keep pushing. And I went to 17 minutes and four seconds. (Applause) (Applause ends) As though that wasn't enough, what I did immediately after is I went to Quest Labs and had them take every blood sample that they could to test for everything and to see where my levels were, so the doctors could use it, once again. I also didn't want anybody to question it. I had the world record and I wanted to make sure it was legitimate. So, I get to New York City the next day, I'm walking out of the Apple store, and this kid walks up to me he's like, ""Yo, D!"" I'm like ""Yeah?"" He said, ""If you really held your breath that long, why'd you come out of the water dry?"" I was like ""What?"" (Laughter) And that's my life. So — (Laughter) As a magician, I try to show things to people that seem impossible. And I think magic, whether I'm holding my breath or shuffling a deck of cards, is pretty simple. It's practice, it's training, and it's — (Sobs) It's practice, it's training and experimenting, (Sobs) while pushing through the pain to be the best that I can be. And that's what magic is to me, so, thank you. (Applause)"	"作為魔術師，我試著創造幻象，讓人們能駐足思考，我也試著自我挑戰那些醫生認為不可能的事情。1999年四月在紐約市，我曾經被活埋在棺材裡，在棺材裡渡過一個星期，只靠水活了下來。由於實在太有趣了，我決定繼續挑戰自己，去嘗試更多可能性。接下來在紐約市，我把自己凍在冰塊裡三天三夜，那比我想像中的要困難許多。之後，我在三十公尺高的柱子上，站了三十六個小時。我開始產生強烈的幻覺，一旁的建築物看起來像是巨大動物的頭。 接下來我去了倫敦，在一個玻璃箱裡渡過四十四天，只靠喝水維持生命。對我來說，這是我所做過最困難、但也是最美麗的事情之一。到處都是懷疑的聲浪，尤其是倫敦的媒體，他們甚至搭著直升機，在玻璃箱外面拿漢堡誘惑我。（笑聲）所以當新英格蘭醫學雜誌將我的經歷用在科學研究上時，我終於覺得被人認同了。 接下來，我想知道自己能忍耐多長時間不呼吸，在什麼都沒有的情況下能生存多久，甚至沒有空氣。我沒有想到這將成為我生命中最為精彩的一段旅程。 年輕的時候，作為一個魔術師，我著迷於胡迪尼和他的水中脫逃術，因此我開始和其他孩子比賽，看我可以在水面下停留多久。其他人上上下下的換氣，有五次之多，而我還待在水底，光是青少年時期，我就已經能憋氣三分三十秒左右，後來我發現這等於胡迪尼的個人紀錄。 1987年我聽到一個故事，一個男孩跌進結冰的河裡，被困在冰面下超過四十五分鐘無法換氣，當醫護人員救回他的時候，發現他的大腦沒有受到任何損傷，他的核心體溫降到25度。作為魔術師我覺得任何事都有可能做得到，有一必有二。我開始思考，如果那個男孩能夠這麼長時間不呼吸而存活下來，那我也能做到。 所以我和一位頂尖的神經外科醫生見面，我問他，人類能夠閉氣多久?不需要空氣可以撐多久?他對我說，一旦超過六分鐘，就有相當高的風險，會因為缺氧而損傷大腦。所以，我把六分鐘視為一個基本挑戰。（笑聲）第一次嘗試，我想試試跟前述同樣的狀況，所以我弄來一個水箱，裡面放滿冰塊和冰水，然後我待在裡面，希望核心體溫會開始下降。我凍得發抖，第一次嘗試閉氣連一分鐘都撐不過，我發覺這是完全行不通的。 我找了一位醫生朋友討論，我問他該怎麼做?「我想要閉氣很長一段時間。該怎麼做到?」他說，“大衛，你是一個魔術師，用障眼法假裝還比較容易。""（笑聲）他想出一個點子，做了一個循環呼吸器，裡頭可以過濾二氧化碳，基本上就是到特力屋買根軟管，再用膠帶纏個氣球上去。他認為可以把管子放進我體內，讓我可以用這玩意維持呼吸循環。這個不是很好看，但至少我們試過了，顯然這招是行不通的。（笑聲） 然後我開始考慮嘗試液式呼吸。有一種化學物質叫做全氟溴烷，它的含氧量相當高，理論上你可以用來呼吸。因此我弄到那種化學物質，拿它裝滿水槽，並且把臉浸進去，試著在裡面呼吸。我完全不能呼吸，醫生說，這就像在呼吸的時候，有一頭大象站在你的胸前。所以我放棄了那個想法， 然後我想，是否有可能利用心肺體外循環機，然後動手術把接管放入動脈，這樣無須呼吸便能獲得氧氣供應。顯然這又是一個瘋狂的想法， 然後我想到了最瘋狂的一個構想，就是真的不去呼吸。（笑聲）試著停止呼吸直到醫生認為你已經腦死的程度。於是我開始研究有關採集珍珠漁民的資料，他們可以一口氣下潛四分多鐘。在我研究他們的時候，我發現自由潛水這個領域，這是我所看過最不可思議的事情。自由潛水有各種不同的面向，有深度紀錄，看人類可以潛得多深；有靜態閉氣紀錄，看人類可以在靜止不動的情況下停止呼吸多久。這正是我要研究的。 我學到的第一件事情是，當你閉氣時，你應該保持靜止，避免消耗能量，以及避免氧氣的耗損，同時減少血液中二氧化碳的堆積。因此我學會盡量保持不動，同時降低我的心跳速率。我需要完全保持靜止並且放鬆，感覺身體已不受我的控制，然後試著保持這種狀態。接著我學會清空肺部，基本上就是快速的交換空氣，深呼吸...當你感覺到頭暈眼花、全身刺痛，就表示你正在清除體內的二氧化碳，這讓你能更輕鬆地進行閉氣。我學到你需要深吸一口氣，憋住氣並且放鬆，不讓任何空氣流失，並且撐過所有的痛苦。 有好幾個月的時間，我每天早上起床的第一件事情，就是練習停止呼吸。在五十二分鐘裡，有四十四分鐘是處在停止呼吸的狀態，也就是練習淨空肺部。我會用一分鐘使勁地呼吸，然後馬上屏住氣五分半鐘，再呼吸一分鐘，盡可能的清空肺部，隨後立刻再閉氣五分半鐘。這個流程會連續進行八次，所以在五十二分鐘裡，只有八分鐘是在呼吸。結束的時候，腦袋像是要炸開一樣，感覺像喝茫了在街上遊蕩，而且頭痛欲裂。老實說，我不是最有資格談論這檔事的人， 所以我開始研究世界紀錄保持人，他叫湯姆．席耶塔斯，他擁有閉氣所需的最佳體能狀態，身高一百九十公分，體重七十二公斤，而且他的肺活量是一般成人的兩倍之多。我有一百八十公分高，過重，或者說骨架大。（笑聲）我需要在三個月內減掉二十二公斤，因此所有吃進去的東西，對我來說都是藥物，每一小撮食物都只為了攝取最基本的營養。我吃的量非常小而且經過嚴格控制，三餐皆如此，讓身體逐漸適應。（笑聲）—個別效果可能不盡相同— 身材越瘦，我越能長時間的憋氣。透過控制飲食和鍛鍊體能，在靜止狀態下，我的心跳降到每分鐘三十八下，比大部分的奧林匹克運動員還要低。四個月的訓練下來，我已經可以停止呼吸超過七分鐘以上。我嘗試在各種地方練習閉氣，我想嘗試在極端狀態下練習，看看我是否能在各種情況下，都能放慢心跳。（笑聲） 我決定挑戰世界紀錄，並在黃金時段現場播出。那時的世界紀錄是八分五十八秒，由湯姆．席耶塔斯所創下，就是那個有鯨魚肺的傢伙。（笑聲）我認為可以把水槽放在林肯中心，如果我能夠待在那裡一個星期，而且不吃東西，我應該就能習慣那樣的環境，並且放慢我的代謝速率。我以為這樣就能夠讓我閉氣比平常還要久，我完全弄錯了。 我在表演開始前一個星期進入這個球體，以為所有事情都會順利進行，但就在挑戰紀錄的兩天前，電視特輯的製作人覺得，如果單只是看著某個傢伙憋住呼吸，然後差點淹死，這樣不夠刺激...（笑聲）所以我得戴上手銬，然後在我閉氣的同時，還得掙脫手銬。這真是個天大的錯誤。因為掙脫的動作會消耗氧氣；在七分鐘的時候，我開始嚴重抽搐；到七分過八秒時，我暈了過去；到七分三十秒的時候，他們不得不把我拉出來，好救回我的命。一整個失敗...（笑聲） 所以我想，要走出低潮最好的方法，就是打電話給歐普拉。（笑聲）我告訴她我要提高賭注，我要暫停呼吸，時間要比任何人都久。這是另一種紀錄，使用純氧進行靜態閉氣，金氏世界紀錄是十三分鐘。你先吸入純氧，讓氧氣循環全身，把二氧化碳清出，讓你可以閉氣更久。我想對我來說，真正的對手應該是海狸吧...（笑聲） 2008年一月，歐普拉給我四個月準備以及訓練，每晚我都在低氧帳篷裡渡過。低氧帳篷是用來模擬四千五百公尺高海拔的裝置，換句話說就像在聖母峰基地營裡一樣。訓練的目的，是開始累積身體裡的紅血球數目，讓你能夠接受更多的氧氣。每天早上，當我走出帳篷，大腦又都是一片空白。我第一次嘗試純氧，就可以閉氣超過十五分鐘，算是相當的成功。 神經外科醫生把我從水中拉出來，因為在他的觀念裡，閉氣十五分鐘，你的大腦就已經完了，相當於腦死。他把我拉出來，而我好得很，現場唯一沒有分享到驚喜的人，是我的前女友，當我第一次在水面下打破紀錄時，她正在一旁擺弄我的黑莓機，查看我的簡訊。（笑聲）我兄弟照了張照片...（笑聲） 接著我宣布要公開挑戰席耶塔斯的紀錄，他對此的回應，是在里吉斯和凱利脫口秀上，打破他的舊紀錄。接著他的頭號對手更新了他的紀錄，然後他一下將紀錄拉高到十六分鐘又三十二秒，比我一開始準備的時間還多了三分鐘，嗯，比紀錄還要久。 我想讓科學時代來記錄此事，我想讓他們為此記上一筆，所以我做了任何一位認真追求科學進步的人都會做的事，我走進紐約時報的辦公大樓，為大夥兒表演紙牌魔術。（笑聲）不知道是魔術還是開曼群島的吸引力，約翰提爾尼被我引來了，他還針對閉氣寫了一篇嚴肅的文章， 當然我那時可是卯足全力，讓他對我留下印象。我潛到四十八公尺深，差不多是十六層樓的深度，當我往上浮的時候，我在水中昏了過去，那非常的危險，溺斃就是這樣。幸運的是科克看到我，他游了過來，把我拉上來。我開始集中精神，訓練自己，以提高閉氣的時間。但是我無法預先準備上節目的時候，可能遇到的各種狀況。 在家練習時，我會漂在泳池上，臉朝下，但是節目要求我保持直立，好讓觀眾看到我的臉。另一個問題是，裝備的浮力太大，他們必須綁住我的腳以免我往上浮，所以我必須雙腿施力，以維持腳在綁帶裡的位置，這對我來說是個大問題，讓我非常的緊張，心跳加快。 同時，他們做了一件我從來沒試過的事，就是放一部心電圖儀在現場。這部機器就在球體旁邊，所以每當我的心臟跳動，我就會聽見嗶嗶聲，而且很大聲，這讓我更加的緊張，我沒有辦法降低心跳。正常狀況下，我的心跳會從每分鐘三十八下開始下降，當我停止呼吸，心跳會降到每分鐘十二下，也就是相當不尋常的低。（笑聲）那個時候一開始就有一百二十下，而且降不下來。 一開始我花了五分鐘，絕望的想要放慢我的心跳，腦中只想著「我要慢下來，我快要失敗，快要失敗了。」我變得更加緊張，心跳不降反升，升到了一百五十下。這跟我在林肯中心的失敗是差不多相同的情況，我消耗了太多氧氣。當我挑戰到一半，也就是八分鐘時，我幾乎可以確定我沒辦法達到目標，我沒有任何辦法可想。 但我想，歐普拉已經安排了一個小時，要看我挑戰閉氣，如果我提早放棄的話，整個節目就會變成看我搞砸之後有多沮喪。（笑聲）所以我決定最好奮鬥下去，撐到我暈過去為止，至少他們會把我拉出來，然後找人急救之類的...（笑聲） 我撐過了十分鐘，這時你會開始感覺強烈的刺痛，在你的手指和腳趾上蔓延。我知道血液開始分流，血液開始從末端的肢體抽離出去，以便提供氧氣給重要的器官組織。到了第十一分鐘，我感覺雙腳開始抽痛，嘴唇的感覺變得非常奇怪。 第十二分鐘的時候，耳朵開始嗡嗡作響，手臂也開始失去知覺，我開始擔心，我記得手臂麻痺接下來就是心臟病發，我變得非常非常恐慌。到了第十三分鐘，也許是因為我的想像，我開始感覺整個胸腔都在痛，非常的糟。第十四分鐘，我開始抽搐，就像是渴望呼吸一樣。（笑聲） 第十五分鐘，我受到心臟缺氧症狀的折磨，心臟開始局部缺血，我的心跳開始在120、50、150、40、20、150之間來回，有時還會漏跳一拍，時跳時停，而我都感覺得到。我想我很有可能會心臟病發，所以在第十六分鐘，我把腳抽出來，因為我知道，如果我要離開球體，或是我心臟病發，他們得跳進球體中，先解開我腳上的綁帶，把腳拉出來，才能把我拉出水面。因此我非常緊張， 我把腳抽出來，並且開始上浮，我並沒有把頭伸出水面，只是一邊漂浮，一邊等著心臟停止，就只是等著...他們的醫生全副武裝，在一旁待命。突然我聽見尖叫聲，我以為出了狀況，是我掛了還是怎麼的，接著我發現我撐過了十六分三十二秒。所以在現場所有人的鼓舞之下，我決定繼續向前推進，我撐到了十七分又四秒鐘。（掌聲） 這還不夠，在我出來之後，我做的第一件事，就是去奎斯特實驗室，讓他們採集所有種類的血液樣本，以進行檢驗，並瞭解我的情況如何，以便在下一次能夠派上用場。我也不希望被人質疑，我創下了世界紀錄，而我希望確認它是正式認可的。 隔天我去了紐約市，當我正從蘋果電腦走出來時，一個小孩子走過來，那個小孩子走近我說""呦，大衛，""我說""怎樣?""他說""如果你真的憋氣那麼久，為什麼你出來的時候身上是乾的?""我說""啥?""（笑聲）這就是我的生活...（笑聲） 作為魔術師，我試著讓人們看到近乎不可能的事情。我認為魔術，不管是停止呼吸或是洗整副牌，都非常的簡單，你只要不停地練習、訓練，不停地練習、訓練和實驗，跨越過痛苦以達到最佳的境界，這就是魔術對我的意義，謝謝各位。（掌聲）"
