Talk	en	zh-tw
david_merrill_demos_siftables_the_smart_blocks	"I want to start out by asking you to think back to when you were a kid, playing with blocks. As you figured out how to reach out and grasp, pick them up and move them around, you were actually learning how to think and solve problems by understanding and manipulating spatial relationships. Spatial reasoning is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of the world around us. So, as a computer scientist inspired by this utility of our interactions with physical objects — along with my adviser Pattie, and my collaborator Jeevan Kalanithi — I started to wonder — what if when we used a computer, instead of having this one mouse cursor that was a like a digital fingertip moving around a flat desktop, what if we could reach in with both hands and grasp information physically, arranging it the way we wanted? This question was so compelling that we decided to explore the answer, by building Siftables. In a nutshell, a Siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie. They're able to be moved around by hand, they can sense each other, they can sense their motion, and they have a screen and a wireless radio. Most importantly, they're physical, so like the blocks, you can move them just by reaching out and grasping. And Siftables are an example of a new ecosystem of tools for manipulating digital information. And as these tools become more physical, more aware of their motion, aware of each other, and aware of the nuance of how we move them, we can start to explore some new and fun interaction styles. So, I'm going to start with some simple examples. This Siftable is configured to show video, and if I tilt it in one direction, it'll roll the video this way; if I tilt it the other way it rolls it backwards. And these interactive portraits are aware of each other. So if I put them next to each other, they get interested. If they get surrounded, they notice that too, they might get a little flustered. And they can also sense their motion and tilt. One of the interesting implications on interaction, we started to realize, was that we could use everyday gestures on data, like pouring a color the way we might pour a liquid. So in this case, we've got three Siftables configured to be paint buckets and I can use them to pour color into that central one, where they get mixed. If we overshoot, we can pour a little bit back. There are also some neat possibilities for education, like language, math and logic games where we want to give people the ability to try things quickly, and view the results immediately. So here I'm — (Applause) This is a Fibonacci sequence that I'm making with a simple equation program. Here we have a word game that's kind of like a mash-up between Scrabble and Boggle. Basically, in every round you get a randomly assigned letter on each Siftable, and as you try to make words it checks against a dictionary. Then, after about 30 seconds, it reshuffles, and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) So these are some kids that came on a field trip to the Media Lab, and I managed to get them to try it out, and shoot a video. They really loved it. And, one of the interesting things about this kind of application is that you don't have to give people many instructions. All you have to say is, ""Make words,"" and they know exactly what to do. So here's another few people trying it out. That's our youngest beta tester, down there on the right. Turns out, all he wanted to do was to stack the Siftables up. So to him, they were just blocks. Now, this is an interactive cartoon application. And we wanted to build a learning tool for language learners. And this is Felix, actually. And he can bring new characters into the scene, just by lifting the Siftables off the table that have that character shown on them. Here, he's bringing the sun out. Video: The sun is rising. David Merrill: Now he's brought a tractor into the scene. Video: The orange tractor. Good job! Yeah! DM: So by shaking the Siftables and putting them next to each other he can make the characters interact — Video: Woof! DM: inventing his own narrative. Video: Hello! DM: It's an open-ended story, and he gets to decide how it unfolds. Video: Fly away, cat. DM: So, the last example I have time to show you today is a music sequencing and live performance tool that we've built recently, in which Siftables act as sounds like lead, bass and drums. Each of these has four different variations, you get to choose which one you want to use. And you can inject these sounds into a sequence that you can assemble into the pattern that you want. And you inject it by just bumping up the sound Siftable against a sequence Siftable. There are effects that you can control live, like reverb and filter. You attach it to a particular sound and then tilt to adjust it. And then, overall effects like tempo and volume that apply to the entire sequence. So let's have a look. Video: (Music) DM: We'll start by putting a lead into two sequence Siftables, arrange them into a series, extend it, add a little more lead. Now I put a bass line in. Video: (Music) DM: Now I'll put some percussion in. Video: (Music) DM: And now I'll attach the filter to the drums, so I can control the effect live. Video: (Music) DM: I can speed up the whole sequence by tilting the tempo one way or the other. Video: (Music) DM: And now I'll attach the filter to the bass for some more expression. Video: (Music) DM: I can rearrange the sequence while it plays. So I don't have to plan it out in advance, but I can improvise, making it longer or shorter as I go. And now, finally, I can fade the whole sequence out using the volume Siftable, tilted to the left. (Applause) Thank you. So, as you can see, my passion is for making new human-computer interfaces that are a better match to the ways our brains and bodies work. And today, I had time to show you one point in this new design space, and a few of the possibilities that we're working to bring out of the laboratory. So the thought I want to leave you with is that we're on the cusp of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media that are going to bring information into our world on our terms. Thank you very much. I look forward to talking with all of you. (Applause)"	我想這樣開始演說，首先請你回想起童年時，玩樍木的情境。當你學會伸手、抓握、拿起和移動樍木，事實上，你正在透過了解及操縱物品間的空間關係，來學習如何思考和解決問題。空間推理和我們如何理解身邊事物有着極大關連。 因此，身為電腦科學家，從這種與實物互動的應用當中得到啟發 —連同我的顧問 Pattie，跟事業夥伴 Jeevan Kalanithi —我開始想知道 — 假如我們使用電腦時，所使用的不是那像數位指頭般的滑鼠指標，在平面的電腦桌面上移動，假如我們能以自己雙手，像掌握實物般掌控資訊，以我們喜歡的方式操控它？這問題引發起我們的興趣，所以我們決定通過研發 Siftables 去探求答案。 簡單而言，Siftable 就像個餅乾般大小的互動電腦。你可隨意用手移動它們，它們會自動感應到其他單元，它們能感測到動作，且每個單元都有螢幕及無線電收發器。最重要的是，它們是實物，所以能像積木般，透過伸手抓握，即可拿起和移動它們。Siftables 是一系列嶄新的數位資訊操控工具的其中一個例子。當這些工具變得更實物化，更能感應到動作，感應彼此的存在，感應到我們如何移動它們，我們就能夠開始探索一些新奇有趣的互動方式。那麼，我將會展示一些簡單的例子。 這些 Siftable 被設定為視訊放映模式，如果將它往一邊傾斜，視訊會這樣播放、將它傾斜到另一邊，則會倒帶。這些互動肖像能感知彼此的存在。如我將它們放在一起，它們會對彼此產生興趣。如果被包圍的話，它們一樣會察覺得到，然後會顯得有點慌張。它們也以可感應到動作和傾斜度。 我們漸漸發現，在互動之中有一個有趣的蘊含，就是我們可以將日常用的手勢應用在資訊操控上，比如像灌注液體般灌注顏色，在這個例子，我們有三顆 Siftables 被設定成油漆桶。而我可以用它們把顏色灌注到中間的那一顆，混合成新顏色。假如灌多了，我們可以倒一點回來。 還有些能應用在教育上的妙用，例如語言、數學與邏輯推理的遊戲。我們希望能給人們快速嘗試事物的能力，且能即時看到成果。因此我就…（掌聲）這是我用簡單的數學程式作的斐波納契數列。 這是個有點像混合了拼字與 Boggle 的文字遊戲。基本上，每個回合每塊 Siftable 會被隨機分配到一個字母。當你嘗試以這些字母拼字時，它會自動檢查字典。然後，30 秒後它會重新洗牌，你會得到新的字母，以嘗試新的可能性。 （掌聲）謝謝（掌聲） 這裡有些來參觀媒體實驗室的小朋友，我讓他們嘗試這玩意，並拍了短片。他們非常喜歡。而關於這種應用的一件有趣的事是，你不必給人們太多提示。你只需要講一句「去拼字吧！」他們就知道該怎麼做。 這裡有另一群人正在試玩。這是當中年紀最小的測試員，他在畫面右方。結果是，他只想將 Siftables 疊起來。對他來說，它們只是玩具樍木而已。現在，這是個互動式卡通的應用。我們還想為學語言的人建立學習的工具。事實上，這位是 Felix。他能將新的角色置於場景中，只需把印有不同角色的 Siftables 從桌面上拿起來。這樣，他讓太陽出來。 影片：太陽正在升起。 David Merrill：現在他將拖拉機加入場景中。 影片：橙色的拖拉機。做得好！很好！ 搖動 Siftables 並將它們排在一起他可以讓裡面的人物互動… 影片：汪！汪！ DM：創作屬於自己的故事。 影片：哈嘍！ DM：這是個自由發揮的故事，他可以自己決定故事的發展。 影片：飛走的小猫 DM：今天最後展示的例子是個編曲和現場即時表演的工具這是我們最近才完成的，Siftables 能用來當作樂器像主音，低音和鼓聲。每一個都有四種不同的變化，你可以選喜愛的來使用。而你能把這些聲音加入編曲中自由組合想要的形式。你還可以將聲音 Siftable 輕輕碰上編曲 Siftable 來加入樂聲。這裡有些效果你能即時控制的，像混響和過濾器。你可以將效果指定到特定的聲音，然後以傾斜來調整它。然後，像拍子和音量等整體效果能應用到整個編曲上。讓我們一起來看。 影片：（音樂） DM：我們首先加進主音到兩個編曲 Siftables，排列成一個序列，延長它，再多加一點主音。現在加上低音。 影片：（音樂）DM：現在我會加入打擊樂器。影片：（音樂） DM：現在我將過濾器用在鼓聲上，然後即時控制效果。 影片：（音樂） DM：我可以加快整個編曲只要任意傾斜拍子單元的一邊。 影片：（音樂） DM：現在我在低音樂器部份加上過濾器以強化聲調。 影片：（音樂） DM：我可以在播放途中重新排列編曲。我不用預先設計好，而能夠即興創作，即時把它加長或減短。最後，我能將整個編曲淡出利用音量 Siftable，把它傾斜到左邊。 （掌聲）謝謝。 如你所見，我熱衷於研制全新的人機界面，更有效地配合我們的大腦跟身體的運作。而今天，我為大家展示了，這全新設計領域的冰山一角，一些我們正努力帶離實驗室，並加以推廣應用的可能。而我希望能給大家一個想法，就是我們正處於新一代數位媒體互動工具的尖端，它們能用我們可以理解的詞彙將資訊帶到我們的世界。非常謝謝大家。希望有機會再與各位談話。 （掌聲）
