Talk	en	zh-tw
david_brooks_the_social_animal	"When I got my current job, I was given a good piece of advice, which was to interview three politicians every day. And from that much contact with politicians, I can tell you they're all emotional freaks of one sort or another. They have what I called ""logorrhea dementia,"" which is they talk so much they drive themselves insane. (Laughter) But what they do have is incredible social skills. When you meet them, they lock into you, they look you in the eye, they invade your personal space, they massage the back of your head. I had dinner with a Republican senator several months ago who kept his hand on my inner thigh throughout the whole meal — squeezing it. I once — this was years ago — I saw Ted Kennedy and Dan Quayle meet in the well of the Senate. And they were friends, and they hugged each other and they were laughing, and their faces were like this far apart. And they were moving and grinding and moving their arms up and down each other. And I was like, ""Get a room. I don't want to see this."" But they have those social skills. Another case: Last election cycle, I was following Mitt Romney around New Hampshire, and he was campaigning with his five perfect sons: Bip, Chip, Rip, Zip, Lip and Dip. (Laughter) And he's going into a diner. And he goes into the diner, introduces himself to a family and says, ""What village are you from in New Hampshire?"" And then he describes the home he owned in their village. And so he goes around the room, and then as he's leaving the diner, he first-names almost everybody he's just met. I was like, ""Okay, that's social skill."" But the paradox is, when a lot of these people slip into the policy-making mode, that social awareness vanishes and they start talking like accountants. So in the course of my career, I have covered a series of failures. We sent economists in the Soviet Union with privatization plans when it broke up, and what they really lacked was social trust. We invaded Iraq with a military oblivious to the cultural and psychological realities. We had a financial regulatory regime based on the assumptions that traders were rational creatures who wouldn't do anything stupid. For 30 years, I've been covering school reform and we've basically reorganized the bureaucratic boxes — charters, private schools, vouchers — but we've had disappointing results year after year. And the fact is, people learn from people they love. And if you're not talking about the individual relationship between a teacher and a student, you're not talking about that reality. But that reality is expunged from our policy-making process. And so that's led to a question for me: Why are the most socially-attuned people on earth completely dehumanized when they think about policy? And I came to the conclusion, this is a symptom of a larger problem. That, for centuries, we've inherited a view of human nature based on the notion that we're divided selves, that reason is separated from the emotions and that society progresses to the extent that reason can suppress the passions. And it's led to a view of human nature that we're rational individuals who respond in straightforward ways to incentives, and it's led to ways of seeing the world where people try to use the assumptions of physics to measure how human behavior is. And it's produced a great amputation, a shallow view of human nature. We're really good at talking about material things, but we're really bad at talking about emotions. We're really good at talking about skills and safety and health; we're really bad at talking about character. Alasdair MacIntyre, the famous philosopher, said that, ""We have the concepts of the ancient morality of virtue, honor, goodness, but we no longer have a system by which to connect them."" And so this has led to a shallow path in politics, but also in a whole range of human endeavors. You can see it in the way we raise our young kids. You go to an elementary school at three in the afternoon and you watch the kids come out, and they're wearing these 80-pound backpacks. If the wind blows them over, they're like beetles stuck there on the ground. You see these cars that drive up — usually it's Saabs and Audis and Volvos, because in certain neighborhoods it's socially acceptable to have a luxury car, so long as it comes from a country hostile to U.S. foreign policy — that's fine. They get picked up by these creatures I've called uber-moms, who are highly successful career women who have taken time off to make sure all their kids get into Harvard. And you can usually tell the uber-moms because they actually weigh less than their own children. (Laughter) So at the moment of conception, they're doing little butt exercises. Babies flop out, they're flashing Mandarin flashcards at the things. Driving them home, and they want them to be enlightened, so they take them to Ben & Jerry's ice cream company with its own foreign policy. In one of my books, I joke that Ben & Jerry's should make a pacifist toothpaste — doesn't kill germs, just asks them to leave. It would be a big seller. (Laughter) And they go to Whole Foods to get their baby formula, and Whole Foods is one of those progressive grocery stores where all the cashiers look like they're on loan from Amnesty International. (Laughter) They buy these seaweed-based snacks there called Veggie Booty with Kale, which is for kids who come home and say, ""Mom, mom, I want a snack that'll help prevent colon-rectal cancer."" (Laughter) And so the kids are raised in a certain way, jumping through achievement hoops of the things we can measure — SAT prep, oboe, soccer practice. They get into competitive colleges, they get good jobs, and sometimes they make a success of themselves in a superficial manner, and they make a ton of money. And sometimes you can see them at vacation places like Jackson Hole or Aspen. And they've become elegant and slender — they don't really have thighs; they just have one elegant calve on top of another. (Laughter) They have kids of their own, and they've achieved a genetic miracle by marrying beautiful people, so their grandmoms look like Gertrude Stein, their daughters looks like Halle Berry — I don't know how they've done that. They get there and they realize it's fashionable now to have dogs a third as tall as your ceiling heights. So they've got these furry 160-pound dogs — all look like velociraptors, all named after Jane Austen characters. And then when they get old, they haven't really developed a philosophy of life, but they've decided, ""I've been successful at everything; I'm just not going to die."" And so they hire personal trainers; they're popping Cialis like breath mints. You see them on the mountains up there. They're cross-country skiing up the mountain with these grim expressions that make Dick Cheney look like Jerry Lewis. (Laughter) And as they whiz by you, it's like being passed by a little iron Raisinet going up the hill. (Laughter) And so this is part of what life is, but it's not all of what life is. And over the past few years, I think we've been given a deeper view of human nature and a deeper view of who we are. And it's not based on theology or philosophy, it's in the study of the mind, across all these spheres of research, from neuroscience to the cognitive scientists, behavioral economists, psychologists, sociology, we're developing a revolution in consciousness. And when you synthesize it all, it's giving us a new view of human nature. And far from being a coldly materialistic view of nature, it's a new humanism, it's a new enchantment. And I think when you synthesize this research, you start with three key insights. The first insight is that while the conscious mind writes the autobiography of our species, the unconscious mind does most of the work. And so one way to formulate that is the human mind can take in millions of pieces of information a minute, of which it can be consciously aware of about 40. And this leads to oddities. One of my favorite is that people named Dennis are disproportionately likely to become dentists, people named Lawrence become lawyers, because unconsciously we gravitate toward things that sound familiar, which is why I named my daughter President of the United States Brooks. (Laughter) Another finding is that the unconscious, far from being dumb and sexualized, is actually quite smart. So one of the most cognitively demanding things we do is buy furniture. It's really hard to imagine a sofa, how it's going to look in your house. And the way you should do that is study the furniture, let it marinate in your mind, distract yourself, and then a few days later, go with your gut, because unconsciously you've figured it out. The second insight is that emotions are at the center of our thinking. People with strokes and lesions in the emotion-processing parts of the brain are not super smart, they're actually sometimes quite helpless. And the ""giant"" in the field is in the room tonight and is speaking tomorrow morning — Antonio Damasio. And one of the things he's really shown us is that emotions are not separate from reason, but they are the foundation of reason because they tell us what to value. And so reading and educating your emotions is one of the central activities of wisdom. Now I'm a middle-aged guy. I'm not exactly comfortable with emotions. One of my favorite brain stories described these middle-aged guys. They put them into a brain scan machine — this is apocryphal by the way, but I don't care — and they had them watch a horror movie, and then they had them describe their feelings toward their wives. And the brain scans were identical in both activities. It was just sheer terror. So me talking about emotion is like Gandhi talking about gluttony, but it is the central organizing process of the way we think. It tells us what to imprint. The brain is the record of the feelings of a life. And the third insight is that we're not primarily self-contained individuals. We're social animals, not rational animals. We emerge out of relationships, and we are deeply interpenetrated, one with another. And so when we see another person, we reenact in our own minds what we see in their minds. When we watch a car chase in a movie, it's almost as if we are subtly having a car chase. When we watch pornography, it's a little like having sex, though probably not as good. And we see this when lovers walk down the street, when a crowd in Egypt or Tunisia gets caught up in an emotional contagion, the deep interpenetration. And this revolution in who we are gives us a different way of seeing, I think, politics, a different way, most importantly, of seeing human capital. We are now children of the French Enlightenment. We believe that reason is the highest of the faculties. But I think this research shows that the British Enlightenment, or the Scottish Enlightenment, with David Hume, Adam Smith, actually had a better handle on who we are — that reason is often weak, our sentiments are strong, and our sentiments are often trustworthy. And this work corrects that bias in our culture, that dehumanizing bias. It gives us a deeper sense of what it actually takes for us to thrive in this life. When we think about human capital we think about the things we can measure easily — things like grades, SAT's, degrees, the number of years in schooling. What it really takes to do well, to lead a meaningful life, are things that are deeper, things we don't really even have words for. And so let me list just a couple of the things I think this research points us toward trying to understand. The first gift, or talent, is mindsight — the ability to enter into other people's minds and learn what they have to offer. Babies come with this ability. Meltzoff, who's at the University of Washington, leaned over a baby who was 43 minutes old. He wagged his tongue at the baby. The baby wagged her tongue back. Babies are born to interpenetrate into Mom's mind and to download what they find — their models of how to understand reality. In the United States, 55 percent of babies have a deep two-way conversation with Mom and they learn models to how to relate to other people. And those people who have models of how to relate have a huge head start in life. Scientists at the University of Minnesota did a study in which they could predict with 77 percent accuracy, at age 18 months, who was going to graduate from high school, based on who had good attachment with mom. Twenty percent of kids do not have those relationships. They are what we call avoidantly attached. They have trouble relating to other people. They go through life like sailboats tacking into the wind — wanting to get close to people, but not really having the models of how to do that. And so this is one skill of how to hoover up knowledge, one from another. A second skill is equipoise, the ability to have the serenity to read the biases and failures in your own mind. So for example, we are overconfidence machines. Ninety-five percent of our professors report that they are above-average teachers. Ninety-six percent of college students say they have above-average social skills. Time magazine asked Americans, ""Are you in the top one percent of earners?"" Nineteen percent of Americans are in the top one percent of earners. (Laughter) This is a gender-linked trait, by the way. Men drown at twice the rate of women, because men think they can swim across that lake. But some people have the ability and awareness of their own biases, their own overconfidence. They have epistemological modesty. They are open-minded in the face of ambiguity. They are able to adjust strength of the conclusions to the strength of their evidence. They are curious. And these traits are often unrelated and uncorrelated with IQ. The third trait is metis, what we might call street smarts — it's a Greek word. It's a sensitivity to the physical environment, the ability to pick out patterns in an environment — derive a gist. One of my colleagues at the Times did a great story about soldiers in Iraq who could look down a street and detect somehow whether there was an IED, a landmine, in the street. They couldn't tell you how they did it, but they could feel cold, they felt a coldness, and they were more often right than wrong. The third is what you might call sympathy, the ability to work within groups. And that comes in tremendously handy, because groups are smarter than individuals. And face-to-face groups are much smarter than groups that communicate electronically, because 90 percent of our communication is non-verbal. And the effectiveness of a group is not determined by the IQ of the group; it's determined by how well they communicate, how often they take turns in conversation. Then you could talk about a trait like blending. Any child can say, ""I'm a tiger,"" pretend to be a tiger. It seems so elementary. But in fact, it's phenomenally complicated to take a concept ""I"" and a concept ""tiger"" and blend them together. But this is the source of innovation. What Picasso did, for example, was take the concept ""Western art"" and the concept ""African masks"" and blend them together — not only the geometry, but the moral systems entailed in them. And these are skills, again, we can't count and measure. And then the final thing I'll mention is something you might call limerence. And this is not an ability; it's a drive and a motivation. The conscious mind hungers for success and prestige. The unconscious mind hungers for those moments of transcendence, when the skull line disappears and we are lost in a challenge or a task — when a craftsman feels lost in his craft, when a naturalist feels at one with nature, when a believer feels at one with God's love. That is what the unconscious mind hungers for. And many of us feel it in love when lovers feel fused. And one of the most beautiful descriptions I've come across in this research of how minds interpenetrate was written by a great theorist and scientist named Douglas Hofstadter at the University of Indiana. He was married to a woman named Carol, and they had a wonderful relationship. When their kids were five and two, Carol had a stroke and a brain tumor and died suddenly. And Hofstadter wrote a book called ""I Am a Strange Loop."" In the course of that book, he describes a moment — just months after Carol has died — he comes across her picture on the mantel, or on a bureau in his bedroom. And here's what he wrote: ""I looked at her face, and I looked so deeply that I felt I was behind her eyes. And all at once I found myself saying as tears flowed, 'That's me. That's me.' And those simple words brought back many thoughts that I had had before, about the fusion of our souls into one higher-level entity, about the fact that at the core of both our souls lay our identical hopes and dreams for our children, about the notion that those hopes were not separate or distinct hopes, but were just one hope, one clear thing that defined us both, that welded us into a unit — the kind of unit I had but dimly imagined before being married and having children. I realized that, though Carol had died, that core piece of her had not died at all, but had lived on very determinedly in my brain."" The Greeks say we suffer our way to wisdom. Through his suffering, Hofstadter understood how deeply interpenetrated we are. Through the policy failures of the last 30 years, we have come to acknowledge, I think, how shallow our view of human nature has been. And now as we confront that shallowness and the failures that derive from our inability to get the depths of who we are, comes this revolution in consciousness — these people in so many fields exploring the depth of our nature and coming away with this enchanted, this new humanism. And when Freud discovered his sense of the unconscious, it had a vast effect on the climate of the times. Now we are discovering a more accurate vision of the unconscious, of who we are deep inside, and it's going to have a wonderful and profound and humanizing effect on our culture. Thank you. (Applause)"	當我得到現在這份工作時，有人給了我一份忠告一天訪問三個政治人物從這麼密集的接觸中我可以告訴你他們都是某種情緒怪人我形容他們的病徵為多語症簡單來說就是他們多話到自己都抓狂（笑聲）但他們的社交能力真的很好當他們見到你他們用眼神鎖死你他們侵犯你的私人空間他們按摩你的後腦勺 幾個月前我和一個共和黨議員共進晚餐他一直把手放在我大腿內側整個晚餐都這樣捏我幾年前我見到 Ted 甘乃迪和 Dan Quayle 在議會池相遇他們是好朋友，他們互相擁抱他們笑著，臉靠這麼近他們磨蹭著移動著在彼此身上上下其手我想“拜託你們幹嘛不去開個房間，看不下去了”但他們就是有這種社交手腕 另一個例子：上次大選我跟著 Mitt Romney 到新罕布夏去他五個完美的兒子畢普、齊普、瑞普、吉普、立普和帝普（笑聲）他走進一個快餐店他向一個家庭自我介紹他說“你從新罕布夏那個小城來的？”然後他描述他在那個小城裡有的那個房子他就這樣走來走去到他離開快餐店的時候他可以叫出所有人的名字我心想“這就是真正的社交手腕了。” 矛盾的是當這些人進入立法模式時這些社會敏感度就消失了他們開始用會計師的語調說話在我的從業生涯中我描寫過一系列的失敗我們把經濟學家送到解體後的蘇聯給他們私有化的計劃但他們缺乏的是社會信任我們派兵侵略伊拉克毫不理會他們文化與心理的現狀我們的金融管制機構把制度建立在交易員完全理性不會做任何傻事的預設三十年來，我報導教育改革我們重整所有官僚體系的黑箱特許證、私立學校、證件但每年的成績仍然教人失望事實是，人們從所愛的人身上學習如果你不討論老師與學生之間的關係這便偏離了真實狀態但這些真實被排除在我們的立法程序以外 於是我心中油然生出這個問題：為甚麼地球上最人情練達的一群人一想到法令就變得如此不人性？我的結論是這是一個更大的問題造成的症狀幾世紀以來我們沿襲一種對人性的看法我們認為我們都是分開的個體理性和感性各自分開社會進步到一個程度以後理性就能壓抑激情我們對人性的觀點就是我們是理性的個體這些看法直接變成獎勵方法也變成了我們看世界的角度當人們嘗試用物理的假設去衡量人類的行為舉止便刪除了許多重要的部份形成了一種對人性的膚淺看法 我們很會談論物質但談到情緒便顯得笨拙我們很會談論技能安全和健康但我們不擅討論人格著名哲學家 Alasdair Maclntyre說，”我們仍有古老的道德概念美德、榮譽、良善但我們沒有一個制度來聯繫它們。“這不但讓政治走上一條膚淺的道路，也影響了各種層面的做法 你可以從我們撫養孩子的方式中窺其一二下午三點到小學去看孩子出來他們背著八十磅重的背包一陣風吹來，他們就會像甲蟲一樣翻倒在地你看見這些豪華轎車可能是 Saab、奧迪或富豪這些好車在某些社區被接受只要不是來自那些抵觸美國外交政策的國家就可以他們被這些我稱作超級母親的生物接走這些生物不但事業成功也不忘拿出時間確保她的孩子進哈佛你很容易辨識出超級母親因為她們通常比孩子還瘦（笑聲）在生產的當下她們擺擺屁股嬰兒滑出她們拿出中文字卡要他們學習 載孩子回家的路上，她們希望孩子變得懂事於是帶他們去吃 Ben & Jerry 冰淇淋也算一種政治態度我在一本書裡嘲弄說 Ben & Jerry's 應該製造和平主義牙膏不殺菌，溫和地請它們離開會大賣（笑聲）他們去 Whole Foods 買嬰兒食品Whole Foods 是一種比較進步的大雜貨店店員（笑聲）他們去那裡買海藻作成的零食叫甘藍寶貝菜因為家裡的孩子會說“媽！我要那些能預防冒號直腸癌的零食！“ （笑聲） 這些孩子跳過一個又一個的訓練圈都是些可衡量的成績SAT考試、雙簧管、足球練習進好學校、有好工作有時候靠著自己的力量得到膚淺的成功賺許多許多錢你會在度假勝地看到他們各種豪華滑雪度假村他們更優雅、更修長他們沒有大腿只有一條優雅的小腿疊在另一條優雅的小腿上（笑聲）他們有了自己的孩子以娶嫁美麗人士達成基因奇蹟奶奶看上去像女作家斯泰因女兒卻像女明星荷莉貝瑞 － 我不知道他們怎麼辦到的他們到了滑雪勝地發現有條像樓層三分之一高的狗很時尚於是他們買來那些一百六十磅的毛毛狗看上去像迅猛龍給牠們取珍奧絲汀書裡的小說人名 當他們逐漸老去，也沒有發展出甚麼人生哲學但他們想“我已達成了所有成功我不死了。”於是他們請私人教練吃犀利士像吃口香糖他們就在那些山上他們滑遍各處的山帶著那樣冰冷的神情嚴肅的政治人物與其相比根本就是諧星（笑聲）當他們從你身邊滑過就像有塊鋼鐵小餅乾從你身邊無聲飛過 （笑聲） 這的確是人生的一部分但不是人生的全部過去幾年我們開始看到一些有關人性的深層研究有關我們究竟是誰不是來自神學或哲學而是來自思想研究從不同層次的學術界從神經科學到認知科學行為經濟學、心理學社會學這是意識的革命當你縱觀以上全部它給我們一種新的角度看人性不只是冷冰冰的維物觀而是一種新的人道主義當你整合這些研究你會有三種理解 第一當意識為我族類寫下自傳潛意識卻做了大部分的工作簡單說來人腦一分鐘可以處理百萬個細節但意識到的大概有40個許多怪事由此發生我最喜歡的是許多叫丹尼的成了牙醫（英語的丹尼音近牙醫）叫羅倫斯的成了律師只因潛意識裡我們傾向和音似的事物靠近這就是我把女兒取名做美國總彤的原因（笑聲）另外一個發現是潛意識不如人們想的那樣愚笨與飢渴事實上它很聰明舉例來說，買傢具一直是件困難的事我們很難想像新沙發在房子裡看上去會是甚麼模樣解決方法是，仔細看清傢具的模樣把它沈浸在腦海，先別想它幾天以後，以你的直覺去買因為潛意識已經為你解決了這個問題 第二情緒是我們思考的中心中風和在在情緒處理部份發生機能損害的人並不聰明事實上他們很無助研究這領域的巨人就在我們當中Antonio Damasio － 他的演講在明天早上他的研究告訴我們情緒並不和理性分開情緒其實是理性的基礎它告訴我們甚麼是重要的理解和訓練你的情緒是通往智慧的道路 身為一個中年男子我並不喜歡談論我的情緒我最喜歡的腦故事便以中年男子為例把中年男子放進腦掃描機器裡這沒甚麼根據，但無所謂讓這些中年男子看恐怖電影再讓他們敘述他們面對妻子的感受兩者的腦掃描結果是一樣的絕對的恐懼讓我們談情緒就像叫甘地談論暴食但情緒幫助我們整理思緒它告訴我們應該記得甚麼大腦紀錄我們一生經歷過的感受 第三是我們不是獨立的個體我們是社群動物，不是理性動物我們從人際關係中成長深深地互相影響當我們見到他人我們會在腦中演練他們腦中所看到的景象當我們看到電影裡的飛車追逐就像是我們也默默地經歷了它當我們看色情影帶就有點像我們也進行了性行為雖然沒有這麼真實當我們看到路上散步的情侶當群眾佔領了埃及和突尼西亞情緒迅速在他們之間蔓延相互影響它隨時改變我們讓我們用不同角度理解政治最重要的重新檢視人力資本 我們是法國啓蒙的後代我們相信理性是最重要的但我相信研究會告訴我們休姆或亞當史密斯帶來的英式或蘇格蘭式啓蒙更接近真實的我們理性往往軟弱，感性時時強大而我們的感性是值得信任的這些研究改正了我們文化中的偏見那深入人心的偏見它讓我們理解究竟怎樣的生活才是個成功的人生當我們想到人力資本我們想到的是那些評鑑標準學校成績、考試成績在學校的這些日子事實上，要過個有意義的人生來自於更深層的事物那些甚至無法言說的感受在此讓我點出兩件小事我想這研究要我們了解 才華其實是一種理解他人想法，和懂得他人的能力嬰兒就有這種能力華盛頓大學的 Melzoff對43分鐘大的嬰兒吐舌頭嬰兒也向他吐舌頭嬰兒生來就能進入母親的大腦下載他們所找到的所有東西這成為他們理解世界的模式在美國，55％的嬰兒和母親有親密的雙方溝通他們用這種模式學習和他人交流這些懂得和他人交流的人在人生路途中超前許多明尼蘇達州大學的科學家做了個研究看誰可以在18歲從高中畢業準確度有77％決定於他們與母親的親密程度兩成沒有這種關係的孩子我們稱他們為迴避型父母他們往往難以與他人建立關係他們走過人生像不停轉變航線的小船想和人更靠近但卻沒有模式能幫助他們這是一種向別人吸收知識的技術 第二種能力也一樣重要平心靜氣地理解自己的偏見和失敗舉例來說，我們是台過分自信的機器95%的教授宣稱他們比普遍的教授都優秀96％的大學生認為他們的社交手腕勝於常任時代雜誌問美國人“你是美國人中收入最好的那10％嗎？”19％的美國人是那10％（笑聲）事實上，這是一個和性別有關的淹死的男人比女人多上兩倍因為男人都覺得他們可以游過那條河但有些人有能力可以辨識出自己的偏見與過分自信他們在知識論上保持謙虛他們對曖昧不明的事物保持開放他們可以隨著證據強度調整結論他們好奇而這些特性和IQ沒有直接關係 第三個特性是 medes這是希臘文，也可以說是見機行事是對身邊事物保持敏感從環境中找出模式推演出重點我在時代雜誌的一個同事為伊拉克士兵做了一個專題他們可以光靠看著一條街就知道有沒有地雷他們沒辦法告訴你他們是怎麼辦到的但他們感覺到一種毛骨悚然而他們往往是對的第三種能力也可以說是同感在群體中共事的能力這種能力非常有用因為群體比個人聰明面對面的群體比經由電子產品對話的群體更聰明因為有九成資訊不是靠文字一個群體的影響力不是取決於群體成員的智商而是他們溝通的方法他們是否輪流對話 然後我們可以討論“混合”的特性任何小孩都可以說“我是老虎”然後假裝自己是老虎看起來很簡單但事實上，它出乎意料的複雜把“我”和“老虎”的概念混合在一起但這就是創新的能力像畢卡索就是結合西方藝術的概念和非洲面具的概念將他們混合在一起不只是幾何圖案還有它們所展示的倫理邏輯這些都是我們無法測量的能力 最後我想提到的是一種叫熱切的心理狀態這不是一種能力更像一種動力意識想要的是成功和名望潛意識想要的是那些超然的短暫時刻當我們全心投入沈溺在一項任務或挑戰中就像工匠沈迷於它的技藝愛好自然者和自然合為一體信徒感覺和神的愛合一潛意識渴望的經歷我們當中的許多人在戀愛中體驗這種合一的感覺 在這個研究中有關人腦如何互相影響溝通最美麗的一段敘述是來自一位印地安那大學的理論科學家叫 Douglas Hofstdter他的妻子叫 Carol他們有一段很美好的關係五歲和兩歲的孩子Carol 中風，因腦瘤突然逝世Hofstadter 寫了一本叫“我是個奇怪的迴路”在書裡他描述一個時刻Carol 逝世後幾個月他在房間的櫃子上看到她的照片 他描寫“我看著她的臉我深深地看了進去彷彿我就在她瞳孔裡我發現我流著淚說”是我。是我。“這幾個簡單的字讓我再次感受之前有過的想法有關靈魂的融合成為一個更高的存在在我們彼此的靈魂深處對我們的孩子有著一樣的希望和夢想這些希望並不遙遠只是一個小小的希望一件讓我倆合一讓我們成為一體的希望那些我在婚前，和有孩子前模糊想像過的同在我意識到，雖然 Carol 已經過世了她的中心思想沒有死去而是在我的腦中繼續活著。 希臘人說我們經過痛苦，到達智慧經過他的痛苦，Hofstadter 理解我們相互影響的程度是如此深厚。從過去30年來的政策失敗我想我們已經知道我們對人性的了解有多麼膚淺當我們正面面對我們的膚淺對理解自身深度的失敗,便有了意識的革命許多不同領域的人開始研究人性的深度發展出這個迷人的新人道主義當佛洛伊德發現了潛意識深深影響了當時的學術狀況現在我們發現了一個更精確的看法有關我們的潛意識 － 我們內心裡究竟是誰它將會對我們的文化帶來一種美妙、深刻和更為人性的影響。 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
