Talk	en	zh-tw
david_gruber_glow_in_the_dark_sharks_and_other_stunning_sea_creatures	"I'm a marine biologist and an explorer-photographer with National Geographic, but I want to share a secret. This image is totally incorrect, totally incorrect. I see a couple of people crying in the back that I've blown their idea of mermaids. All right, the mermaid is indeed real, but anyone who's gone on a dive will know that the ocean looks more like this. It's because the ocean is this massive filter, and as soon as you start going underwater, you're going to lose your colors, and it's going to get dark and blue very quickly. But we're humans — we're terrestrial mammals. And we've got trichromatic vision, so we see in red, green and blue, and we're just complete color addicts. We love eye-popping color, and we try to bring this eye-popping color underwater with us. So there's been a long and sordid history of bringing color underwater, and it starts 88 years ago with Bill Longley and Charles Martin, who were trying to take the first underwater color photograph. And they're in there with old-school scuba suits, where you're pumping air down to them, and they've got a pontoon of high-explosive magnesium powder, and the poor people at the surface are not sure when they're going to pull the string when they've got their frame in focus, and — boom! — a pound of high explosives would go off so they could put a little bit of light underwater and get an image like this beautiful hogfish. I mean, it's a gorgeous image, but this is not real. They're creating an artificial environment so we can satisfy our own addiction to color. And looking at it the other way, what we've been finding is that instead of bringing color underwater with us, that we've been looking at the blue ocean, and it's a crucible of blue, and these animals living there for millions of years have been evolving all sorts of ways to take in that blue light and give off other colors. And here's just a little sample of what this secret world looks like. It's like an underwater light show. (Music) Again, what we're seeing here is blue light hitting this image. These animals are absorbing the blue light and immediately transforming this light. So if you think about it, the ocean is 71 percent of the planet, and blue light can extend down to almost a 1,000 meters. As we go down underwater, after about 10 meters, all the red is gone. So if you see anything under 10 meters that's red, it's an animal transforming and creating its own red. This is the largest single monochromatic blue environment on our planet. And my gateway into this world of biofluorescence begins with corals. And I want to give a full TED Talk on corals and just how cool these things are. One of the things that they do, one of their miraculous feats, is they produce lots of these fluorescent proteins, fluorescent molecules. And in this coral, it could be making up to 14 percent of its body mass — could be this fluorescent protein. So you wouldn't be making, like, 14 percent muscle and not using it, so it's likely doing something that has a functional role. And for the last 10, 15 years, this was so special to me, because this molecule has turned out to be one of the most revolutionary tools in biomedical science, and it's allowing us to better see inside ourselves. So, how do I study this? In order to study biofluorescence, we swim at night. And when I started out, I was just using these blue duct-tape filters over my strobe, so I could make sure I'm actually seeing the light that's being transformed by the animals. We're making an exhibit for the Museum of Natural History, and we're trying to show off how great the fluorescent corals are on the reef, and something happened that just blew me away: this. In the middle of our corals, is this green fluorescent fish. It's the first time we've ever seen a green fluorescent fish or any vertebrate for that matter. And we're rubbing our eyes, checking the filters, thinking that somebody's maybe playing a joke on us with the camera, but the eel was real. It was the first green fluorescent eel that we found, and this just changed my trajectory completely. So I had to put down my corals and team up with a fish scientist, John Sparks, and begin a search around the world to see how prevalent this phenomenon is. And fish are much more interesting than corals, because they have really advanced vision, and some of the fish even have, the way that I was photographing it, they have lenses in their eyes that would magnify the fluorescence. So I wanted to seek this out further. So we designed a new set of gear and we're scouring the reefs around the world, looking for fluorescent life. And it's a bit like ""E.T. phone home."" We're out there swimming with this blue light, and we're looking for a response, for animals to be absorbing the light and transferring this back to us. And eventually, we found our photobombing Kaupichphys eel. It's a really shy, reclusive eel that we know almost nothing about. They're only about the size of my finger, and they spend about 99.9 percent of their time hidden under a rock. But these eels do come out to mate under full-moon nights, and that full-moon night translates underwater to blue. Perhaps they're using this as a way to see each other, quickly find each other, mate, go back into their hole for the next long stint of time. But then we started to find other fluorescent marine life, like this green fluorescent bream, with its, like, racing stripes along its head and its nape, and it's almost camouflaged and fluorescing at the same intensity as the fluorescent coral there. After this fish, we were introduced to this red fluorescent scorpionfish cloaked and hidden on this rock. The only time we've ever seen this, it's either on red fluorescent algae or red fluorescent coral. Later, we found this stealthy green fluorescent lizardfish. These lizardfish come in many varieties, and they look almost exactly alike under white light. But if you look at them under fluorescent light, you see lots of patterns, you can really see the differences among them. And in total — we just reported this last year — we found over 200 species of biofluorescent fish. One of my inspirations is French artist and biologist Jean Painlevé. He really captures this entrepreneuring, creative spirit in biology. He would design his own gear, make his own cameras, and he was fascinated with the seahorse, Hippocampus erectus, and he filmed for the first time the seahorse giving birth. So this is the male seahorse. They were one of the first fish to start swimming upright with their brain above their head. The males give birth, just phenomenal creatures. So he stayed awake for days. He even put this electrical visor on his head that would shock him, so he could capture this moment. Now, I wish I could have shown Painlevé the moment where we found biofluorescent seahorses in the exact same species that he was studying. And here's our footage. (Music) They're the most cryptic fish. You could be swimming right on top of them and not see the seahorse. They would blend right into the algae, which would also fluoresce red, but they've got great vision, and they go through this long mating ritual, and perhaps they're using it in that effect. But things got pretty edgy when we found green fluorescence in the stingray, because stingrays are in the Elasmobranch class, which includes ... sharks. So I'm, like, a coral biologist. Somebody's got to go down and check to see if the sharks are fluorescent. And there I am. (Laughter) And I was like, ""Maybe I should go back to corals."" (Laughter) It turns out that these sharks are not fluorescent. And then we found it. In a deep, dark canyon off the coast of California, we found the first biofluorescent swellshark, right underneath all the surfers. Here it is. They're just about a meter long. It's called a swellshark. And they call them a swellshark because if they're threatened, they can gulp down water and blow up like an inner tube, about twice their size, and wedge themselves under a rock, so they don't get eaten by a predator. And here is our first footage of these biofluorescent swellsharks. Just magnificent — I mean, they're showing these distinct patterns, and there are areas that are fluorescent and areas that are not fluorescent, but they've also got these twinkling spots on them that are much brighter than other parts of the shark. But this is all beautiful to see. I was like, this is gorgeous. But what does it mean to the shark? Can they see this? And we looked in the literature, and nothing was known about this shark's vision. So I took this shark to eye specialist Ellis Loew at Cornell University, and we found out that this shark sees discretely and acutely in the blue-green interface, probably about 100 times better than we can see in the dark, but they only see blue-green. So what it's doing is taking this blue world and it's absorbing the blue, creating green. It's creating contrast that they can indeed see. So we have a model, showing that it creates an ability for them to see all these patterns. And males and females also have, we're finding, distinct patterns among them. But our last find came really just a few miles from where we are now, in the Solomon Islands. Swimming at night, I encountered the first biofluorescent sea turtle. So now it's going from fish and sharks into reptiles, which, again, this is only one month old, but it shows us that we know almost nothing about this hawksbill turtle's vision. And it makes me think about how much more there is to learn. And here in the Solomon Islands, there's only a few thousand breeding females of this species left, and this is one of the hotspots for them. So it shows us how much we need to really protect these animals while they're still here, and understand them. In thinking about biofluorescence, I wanted to know, how deep does it go? Does this go all the way to the bottom of the ocean? So we started using submarines, and we equipped them with special blue lights on the front here. And we dropped down, and we noticed one important thing — that as we get down to 1,000 meters, it drops off. There's no biofluorescent marine life down there, below 1,000 meters — almost nothing, it's just darkness. So it's mainly a shallow phenomenon. And below 1,000 meters, we encountered the bioluminescent zone, where nine out of 10 animals are actually making their own lights and flashing and blinking. As I try to get deeper, this is slapping on a one-person submarine suit — some people call this my ""Jacques Cousteau meets Woody Allen"" moment. (Laughter) But as we explore down here, I was thinking about: How do we interact with life delicately? Because we're entering a new age of exploration, where we have to take great care, and we have to set examples how we explore. So I've teamed up with roboticist Rob Wood at Harvard University, and we've been designing squishy underwater robot fingers, so we can delicately interact with the marine life down there. The idea is that most of our technologies to explore the deep ocean come from oil and gas and military, who, you know, they're not really caring to be gentle. Some corals could be 1,000 years old. You don't want to just go and crush them with a big claw. So my dream is something like this. At night, I'm in a submarine, I have force-feedback gloves, and I could delicately set up a lab in the front of my submarine, where the squishy robot fingers are delicately collecting and putting things in jars, and we can conduct our research. Back to the powerful applied applications. Here, you're looking at a living brain that's using the DNA of fluorescent marine creatures, this one from jellyfish and corals, to illuminate the living brain and see its connections. It's funny that we're using RGB just to kind of satisfy our own human intuition, so we can see our brains better. And even more mind-blowing, is my close colleague Vincent Pieribone at Yale, who has actually designed and engineered a fluorescent protein that responds to voltage. So he could see when a single neuron fires. You're essentially looking at a portal into consciousness that was designed by marine creatures. So this brings me all back to perspective and relationship. From deep space, our universe looks like a human brain cell, and then here we are in the deep ocean, and we're finding marine creatures and cells that can illuminate the human mind. And it's my hope that with illuminated minds, we could ponder the overarching interconnectedness of all life, and fathom how much more lies in store if we keep our oceans healthy. Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一名海洋學家，也是一名探險攝影師。我為國家地理工作，我要和諸位分享一個秘密。這張照片完全是不對的，完全錯誤。我看到有些坐在後面的朋友掩面了，因為我破壞了他們對美人魚的想象。好吧，美人魚是存在的，但是任何曾經潛水過的人都知道海面之下其實是這樣的。因為大海是一片龐大的濾光鏡，就在你潛下水面之時，你將開始失去捕捉顏色的能力，並且在短時間內，轉變為以黑色為藍色為主。 但是我們是人類──陸生哺乳類動物。我們擁有三色視覺，我們看到的顏色由紅，綠，藍組成，我們對色彩著迷，我們鐘愛鮮艷的色彩，而同時我們也在嘗試將這些絢麗的色彩帶到水面下。 我們擁有漫長且沮喪的，企圖將諸多色彩帶到水下的歷史，從88年前，比爾.郎利和查理.馬丁是最早嘗試在水下拍攝彩色照片的人。他們套著舊式的潛水套，裝著水肺，水面上的人將空氣通過水肺輸送給他們，他們擁有一個裝滿易爆鎂粉的高浮力浮筒，而水面上的人們不確定發生了什麼事，當他們拉動細繩並對上焦，然後──轟！一磅的鎂粉就爆炸了。藉以這樣的方法，他們能使微弱的光線來到水下，以拍到一張像這張隆頭鱼一樣精緻的照片。我是說，這是張漂亮的照片，但它不是真實的。他們人為地製造了一個環境使我們的眼睛對於顏色的癡迷能夠被滿足。 以另一種角度來看，我們發現，與其將色彩帶到水下，當我觀察藍色的海洋時，我感到這樣的藍色是一種考驗，這些動物在這裡生活了數百萬年，並進化出了各種方法，同化這種藍光，進以創造出其他顏色。我有一個關於這個神秘世界真實面貌的例子，這就好像一台水下燈光秀。 （音樂） 我們所看到的是在藍光照射下拍攝的畫面，這些動物們（珊瑚蟲）吸收藍光並即刻將其轉化成別的顏色。 所以當你想想看，海洋佔據地球的71％，而藍光可以照射到一千米以下的深海。當我們潛入水下，十米開外，紅光就完全消失了。所以你在海面十米以下看到的任何紅色，都是動物們吸收其他色光，並轉化為自身獨有的紅色。這是我們的星球上，最大的單色藍光區域。 我開始探索生物螢光世界的契機是珊瑚蟲。我也很想花一整個TED演講的時間來講珊瑚蟲他們如此神奇。他們做的其中一件神奇的事，其中一個奇蹟般的工程，是他們自身會生產螢光蛋白質，螢光分子。在這個珊瑚裡，他們可以產出相當於本身重量14％的螢光蛋白質。所以你不可能，生產出了14％體重的肌肉而不使用他們，所以螢光分子的產生一定有其作用。在過去的10，15年間，這件事對我而言十分特殊，因為這些分子的產生在生物醫學科學上是革命性的工具，這使我們更認識我們自己。 所以，我是如何研究的？為了研究生物螢光現象，我們夜晚下潛。最初的時候，我只是用密封膠帶將藍色的濾鏡黏在我的閃光燈上，這樣我的眼睛就可以看到，這些藍光是如何被動物們轉化的。我們在為美國自然歷史博物館的一個展做準備，我們試著展現這些珊瑚礁令人驚艷的螢光色，而一件事發生了，它輕易帶走了我的注意力，這個。在我們的珊瑚中間，這條綠色螢光魚出現了。這是我們第一次發現綠色螢光色的魚甚至是第一次發現螢光的有脊椎生物。我們揉著眼睛，檢查濾鏡，甚至猜測或許有些人對我們的相機動了手腳，想與我們開個玩笑，但是那條鰻魚是真實的。 這是我們發現的第一條綠色螢光鰻魚。而這完完全全改變了我的人生軌跡。我放下我的珊瑚，和一位魚類專家，約翰.斯帕克斯合作，繼而開始在全世界展開調查，以勘察這種現象的普遍性。魚類比珊瑚有趣多了，因為他們有著更為出色的視覺，有些魚甚至擁有，與我用藍色閃光燈拍照原理相同的功能，他們眼睛中有著微小的“鏡頭”，可以用於增強螢光色。我想要更深入地了解這些東西， 所以我們設計了一系列環環相扣的實驗，我們仔細勘察了全世界的珊瑚礁，以尋找更多螢光生物。這有些像“E.T 企圖打電話回家”我們帶著藍光在水下游動，希望能得到回應，希望動物們吸收藍光，並將他們轉化出的光回饋給我們。最終，我們找到了Kaupichphys eel（應該隸屬草鰻科眶鼻鰻屬，譯者注）它們是獨居且十分害羞的鰻魚，我們對它們幾乎一無所知。它們只有我手指大小，並且99.9％的時間都藏在石頭下。但是這些鰻魚會在滿月的晚上游出來交配滿月使夜裡的水下藍光遍佈，他們或許借此看到彼此，迅速的找到彼此，交配，再回到他們的洞穴里進行漫長的等待。我們開始找到別的熒光海洋生物，比如這條螢綠色的歐鳊，它額上與頸部都有著豎型條紋，就像賽車前蓋上那樣的，並且這些偽裝性條紋有著與珊瑚礁同樣的亮度。 在發現這種魚之後，我們又發現了這種反射紅色螢光的鮋，它們隱藏在岩石下，偽裝著。在此之前，我們只知道有螢光紅的海藻，以及螢光紅的珊瑚。 在這之後，我們發現這些反射螢光綠的狗母魚。狗母魚有許多種，它們在正常的光線下幾乎一模一樣。但如果你在螢光燈下觀察它們，你可以看到許多圖案，你可以清楚地看出它們的不同，我們去年的報告指出──我們總共發現超過200種螢光的魚， 我的啟迪者之一，是法國藝術，生物學家吉恩.潘勒偉。他真正拍攝到了這些生物所擁有的，富有創意的精神。他自己製造設備，製作相機，他為海馬著迷，直立海馬，他是史上第一個拍攝到了海馬生產畫面的人。這就是雄海馬。它們是第一種豎著游泳且大腦是位於頭頂的魚類。雄海馬承擔生育的責任，這種生物如此不同尋常。所以他長時間的拍攝它們，他甚至在頭上放置了電子面罩以電擊自己，以便於他可以集中精神拍攝這個畫面。現在，我希望我能讓吉恩看到，我們拍攝的螢光海馬的畫面我們拍攝的和他拍攝的是同一種類。這是我們拍攝的畫面。 （音樂） 它們是最撲朔迷離的魚類。你可能從它們頭頂游過，卻完全沒能注意到它們的存在。它們與同樣反射螢光紅的水藻融為一體，它們擁有很好地視力，並需要經歷漫長的交配儀式，這也許也是它們螢光的原因之一。 但事情變得愈加複雜當我們發現魟也會反射螢光綠，因為魟屬於軟骨魚綱這個綱目也包括....鯊魚。所以，我，一個珊瑚生物學家，跑去水下開始觀察鯊魚是否也是螢光的。嗯，這就是我。 （笑聲） 然後我想：“ 嗯，好吧，或許我應該繼續研究我的珊瑚。” （笑聲） 我們發現這些鯊魚不是螢光的。然後我們找到了這個。在加利福尼亞海岸邊一個幽深的洞穴里，我們找到了第一條螢光的頭鮫，就在衝浪者的腳底下。這就是它。它們大概一米長，叫做頭鮫。人們叫它們頭鮫（swellshark字譯為膨脹的鯊魚）因為它們如果受到驚嚇，它們會吞嚥海水并鼓脹身體，就像身體里有條軟管，它們可以膨脹到原本的兩倍，並把身子嵌入岩石中，以保護自己不被捕食者吃掉。這是我們拍攝的第一條螢光頭鮫的畫面。就像魔法一樣──我是說，它們身上明麗的圖案們，螢光的頭鮫分佈在一些地區，非螢光的分佈在另一些地區，但它們身上這些閃爍的圖案，遠比其他種類的鯊魚明亮。 看到這些漂亮的鯊魚們，我心裡想，這真是太棒了。但這對鯊魚來說有什麼意義呢？它們能看到這些圖案麼？於是我們翻閱典籍，卻發現沒有任何關於這種鯊魚視覺的記錄。所以我們把這種鯊魚交給了康奈爾大學的視覺專家埃利斯.勒夫，我們發現這種鯊魚的視覺（神經）在區分藍色與綠色時尤其敏感，大約比人類在暗處時的敏感程度高100倍，但它們只能看到藍綠色。所以它們的視覺大概是，在藍色的世界里，吸收藍色光，製造綠色光。它們創造對比以使得它們的眼睛能夠看到這些圖案，所以我們有了一個模型，展示給我們它們看到這些圖案的能力。我們也發現，雄性與雌性身上的圖案是不同的。 我們的最後一個發現，離我們現在的所處地只有幾英里遠，在所羅門島。在夜潛時，我與世界上第一種螢光海龜相遇了。所以現在我們從魚和鯊魚跳到了爬行類上，也就一個月前吧，發現它，但這也警醒了我們，我們對它們，這種玳瑁的視覺幾乎一無所知。這使我開始思考，我們究竟還有多少需要學習。在這裡，在所羅門島，這種玳瑁只剩下數千的雌性還存活著，而這裡是它們的集聚地之一。這告訴我們，保護它們迫在眉睫，當它們尚未滅絕，在我們還能研究它們的時候。 在研究生物螢光性的同時，我也想知道，它的涉獵有多廣？螢光性存在於所有的海洋生物身上麼？所以我們開始使用潛水艇，裝備它們，在潛水艇前端制配了特殊的藍色光源。然後我們下水，發現了一個重要的事情──當我們達到1000米深時，不知不覺得。在1000米以下，這裡沒有任何螢光的海洋生物，甚至沒有任何生物，只剩黑暗。這是一個不同尋常的現象。在1000米以下，我們開始到達生物發光體所在的區域，這裡的動物十有八九都能自主發光閃光或者閃爍。 當我試著到達更深的區域時，這是我，在穿一件單人潛水衣──有人說這是我的“庫斯托·賈可會見伍迪·艾倫”的時刻（兩人都是卓越的導演和冒險家） （笑聲） 但當我們的研究愈加深入，我開始思考：如何能小心翼翼地與這些生命交流？因為我們到達了一個新的領域，一個我們需要精心呵護的領域，我們的研究應當成為榜樣。所以我與哈佛大學的機器人專家羅布.伍德合作，我們開始研發一種柔軟的水下手指機器人，使我們能夠輕柔的觸碰深海之下的海洋生物。我們用以深海探索的大多數技術設備，都依賴於燃油以及軍事相關資源，我們都知道，他們不太在乎溫柔地對待事物。有些珊瑚可能已經一千歲了，你不會想要用巨大的機械爪來傷害它們，所以我期望的是這樣的東西。夜晚，我在潛艇里，我帶著壓感手套，以幫助我小心翼翼的在我的潛艇前建立一個臨時實驗室，柔軟的機械手指，小心的收集並把樣本放到廣口瓶中，使得我們能夠順利處理我們的研究。 回到強大的實際應用上。我們現在正在看著一個活的大腦，由具有螢光DNA的海洋生物的基因建立，這個是來自珊瑚和水母的，螢光DNA照亮大腦，并觀察它們之間的聯繫。這很有趣，我們使用紅，綠，藍三原色以配合我們人類的視覺習慣，所以我們能夠更好地觀察它。腦洞大開的話，我在耶魯的同事文森.派瑞邦他設計並製造了一種螢光蛋白，這種蛋白會因電壓不同有不同的反應。所以我們可以看到，當一個神經傳出信號，你會看到整個大腦的意識改變的過程而這個創造點子來源於海洋生物。 所以，這使我思考，早些時候對於海洋生物的看法與關係。在太空中，我們的宇宙看上去就像一個人腦細胞，而我們在深海時，我們發現海洋生物與它們的細胞可以點亮人類的大腦。而這是我關於點亮大腦的一個願望，我可以更深入的了解各種生物之間的關聯，弄懂海洋被潛藏的價值與重要性以保持海洋健康為前提。 謝謝。 （掌聲）（文中提到的Kaupichphys eel，近親為高體眶鼻鰻，感謝Eirc提供幫助）
