Talk	en	zh-tw
david_gallo_on_life_in_the_deep_oceans	"(Applause) David Gallo: This is Bill Lange. I'm Dave Gallo. And we're going to tell you some stories from the sea here in video. We've got some of the most incredible video of Titanic that's ever been seen, and we're not going to show you any of it. (Laughter) The truth of the matter is that the Titanic — even though it's breaking all sorts of box office records — it's not the most exciting story from the sea. And the problem, I think, is that we take the ocean for granted. When you think about it, the oceans are 75 percent of the planet. Most of the planet is ocean water. The average depth is about two miles. Part of the problem, I think, is we stand at the beach, or we see images like this of the ocean, and you look out at this great big blue expanse, and it's shimmering and it's moving and there's waves and there's surf and there's tides, but you have no idea for what lies in there. And in the oceans, there are the longest mountain ranges on the planet. Most of the animals are in the oceans. Most of the earthquakes and volcanoes are in the sea, at the bottom of the sea. The biodiversity and the biodensity in the ocean is higher, in places, than it is in the rainforests. It's mostly unexplored, and yet there are beautiful sights like this that captivate us and make us become familiar with it. But when you're standing at the beach, I want you to think that you're standing at the edge of a very unfamiliar world. We have to have a very special technology to get into that unfamiliar world. We use the submarine Alvin and we use cameras, and the cameras are something that Bill Lange has developed with the help of Sony. Marcel Proust said, ""The true voyage of discovery is not so much in seeking new landscapes as in having new eyes."" People that have partnered with us have given us new eyes, not only on what exists — the new landscapes at the bottom of the sea — but also how we think about life on the planet itself. Here's a jelly. It's one of my favorites, because it's got all sorts of working parts. This turns out to be the longest creature in the oceans. It gets up to about 150 feet long. But see all those different working things? I love that kind of stuff. It's got these fishing lures on the bottom. They're going up and down. It's got tentacles dangling, swirling around like that. It's a colonial animal. These are all individual animals banding together to make this one creature. And it's got these jet thrusters up in front that it'll use in a moment, and a little light. If you take all the big fish and schooling fish and all that, put them on one side of the scale, put all the jelly-type of animals on the other side, those guys win hands down. Most of the biomass in the ocean is made out of creatures like this. Here's the X-wing death jelly. (Laughter) The bioluminescence — they use the lights for attracting mates and attracting prey and communicating. We couldn't begin to show you our archival stuff from the jellies. They come in all different sizes and shapes. Bill Lange: We tend to forget about the fact that the ocean is miles deep on average, and that we're real familiar with the animals that are in the first 200 or 300 feet, but we're not familiar with what exists from there all the way down to the bottom. And these are the types of animals that live in that three-dimensional space, that micro-gravity environment that we really haven't explored. You hear about giant squid and things like that, but some of these animals get up to be approximately 140, 160 feet long. They're very little understood. DG: This is one of them, another one of our favorites, because it's a little octopod. You can actually see through his head. And here he is, flapping with his ears and very gracefully going up. We see those at all depths and even at the greatest depths. They go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet. They come right up to the submarine — they'll put their eyes right up to the window and peek inside the sub. This is really a world within a world, and we're going to show you two. In this case, we're passing down through the mid-ocean and we see creatures like this. This is kind of like an undersea rooster. This guy, that looks incredibly formal, in a way. And then one of my favorites. What a face! This is basically scientific data that you're looking at. It's footage that we've collected for scientific purposes. And that's one of the things that Bill's been doing, is providing scientists with this first view of animals like this, in the world where they belong. They don't catch them in a net. They're actually looking at them down in that world. We're going to take a joystick, sit in front of our computer, on the Earth, and press the joystick forward, and fly around the planet. We're going to look at the mid-ocean ridge, a 40,000-mile long mountain range. The average depth at the top of it is about a mile and a half. And we're over the Atlantic — that's the ridge right there — but we're going to go across the Caribbean, Central America, and end up against the Pacific, nine degrees north. We make maps of these mountain ranges with sound, with sonar, and this is one of those mountain ranges. We're coming around a cliff here on the right. The height of these mountains on either side of this valley is greater than the Alps in most cases. And there's tens of thousands of those mountains out there that haven't been mapped yet. This is a volcanic ridge. We're getting down further and further in scale. And eventually, we can come up with something like this. This is an icon of our robot, Jason, it's called. And you can sit in a room like this, with a joystick and a headset, and drive a robot like that around the bottom of the ocean in real time. One of the things we're trying to do at Woods Hole with our partners is to bring this virtual world — this world, this unexplored region — back to the laboratory. Because we see it in bits and pieces right now. We see it either as sound, or we see it as video, or we see it as photographs, or we see it as chemical sensors, but we never have yet put it all together into one interesting picture. Here's where Bill's cameras really do shine. This is what's called a hydrothermal vent. And what you're seeing here is a cloud of densely packed, hydrogen-sulfide-rich water coming out of a volcanic axis on the sea floor. Gets up to 600, 700 degrees F, somewhere in that range. So that's all water under the sea — a mile and a half, two miles, three miles down. And we knew it was volcanic back in the '60s, '70s. And then we had some hint that these things existed all along the axis of it, because if you've got volcanism, water's going to get down from the sea into cracks in the sea floor, come in contact with magma, and come shooting out hot. We weren't really aware that it would be so rich with sulfides, hydrogen sulfides. We didn't have any idea about these things, which we call chimneys. This is one of these hydrothermal vents. Six hundred degree F water coming out of the Earth. On either side of us are mountain ranges that are higher than the Alps, so the setting here is very dramatic. BL: The white material is a type of bacteria that thrives at 180 degrees C. DG: I think that's one of the greatest stories right now that we're seeing from the bottom of the sea, is that the first thing we see coming out of the sea floor after a volcanic eruption is bacteria. And we started to wonder for a long time, how did it all get down there? What we find out now is that it's probably coming from inside the Earth. Not only is it coming out of the Earth — so, biogenesis made from volcanic activity — but that bacteria supports these colonies of life. The pressure here is 4,000 pounds per square inch. A mile and a half from the surface to two miles to three miles — no sun has ever gotten down here. All the energy to support these life forms is coming from inside the Earth — so, chemosynthesis. And you can see how dense the population is. These are called tube worms. BL: These worms have no digestive system. They have no mouth. But they have two types of gill structures. One for extracting oxygen out of the deep-sea water, another one which houses this chemosynthetic bacteria, which takes the hydrothermal fluid — that hot water that you saw coming out of the bottom — and converts that into simple sugars that the tube worm can digest. DG: You can see, here's a crab that lives down there. He's managed to grab a tip of these worms. Now, they normally retract as soon as a crab touches them. Oh! Good going. So, as soon as a crab touches them, they retract down into their shells, just like your fingernails. There's a whole story being played out here that we're just now beginning to have some idea of because of this new camera technology. BL: These worms live in a real temperature extreme. Their foot is at about 200 degrees C and their head is out at three degrees C, so it's like having your hand in boiling water and your foot in freezing water. That's how they like to live. (Laughter) DG: This is a female of this kind of worm. And here's a male. You watch. It doesn't take long before two guys here — this one and one that will show up over here — start to fight. Everything you see is played out in the pitch black of the deep sea. There are never any lights there, except the lights that we bring. Here they go. On one of the last dive series, we counted 200 species in these areas — 198 were new, new species. BL: One of the big problems is that for the biologists working at these sites, it's rather difficult to collect these animals. And they disintegrate on the way up, so the imagery is critical for the science. DG: Two octopods at about two miles depth. This pressure thing really amazes me — that these animals can exist there at a depth with pressure enough to crush the Titanic like an empty Pepsi can. What we saw up till now was from the Pacific. This is from the Atlantic. Even greater depth. You can see this shrimp is harassing this poor little guy here, and he'll bat it away with his claw. Whack! (Laughter) And the same thing's going on over here. What they're getting at is that — on the back of this crab — the foodstuff here is this very strange bacteria that lives on the backs of all these animals. And what these shrimp are trying to do is actually harvest the bacteria from the backs of these animals. And the crabs don't like it at all. These long filaments that you see on the back of the crab are actually created by the product of that bacteria. So, the bacteria grows hair on the crab. On the back, you see this again. The red dot is the laser light of the submarine Alvin to give us an idea about how far away we are from the vents. Those are all shrimp. You see the hot water over here, here and here, coming out. They're clinging to a rock face and actually scraping bacteria off that rock face. Here's a tiny, little vent that's come out of the side of that pillar. Those pillars get up to several stories. So here, you've got this valley with this incredible alien landscape of pillars and hot springs and volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, inhabited by these very strange animals that live only on chemical energy coming out of the ground. They don't need the sun at all. BL: You see this white V-shaped mark on the back of the shrimp? It's actually a light-sensing organ. It's how they find the hydrothermal vents. The vents are emitting a black body radiation — an IR signature — and so they're able to find these vents at considerable distances. DG: All this stuff is happening along that 40,000-mile long mountain range that we're calling the ribbon of life, because just even today, as we speak, there's life being generated there from volcanic activity. This is the first time we've ever tried this any place. We're going to try to show you high definition from the Pacific. We're moving up one of these pillars. This one's several stories tall. In it, you'll see that it's a habitat for a lot of different animals. There's a funny kind of hot plate here, with vent water coming out of it. So all of these are individual homes for worms. Now here's a closer view of that community. Here's crabs here, worms here. There are smaller animals crawling around. Here's pagoda structures. I think this is the neatest-looking thing. I just can't get over this — that you've got these little chimneys sitting here smoking away. This stuff is toxic as hell, by the way. You could never get a permit to dump this in the ocean, and it's coming out all from it. (Laughter) It's unbelievable. It's basically sulfuric acid, and it's being just dumped out, at incredible rates. And animals are thriving — and we probably came from here. That's probably where we evolved from. BL: This bacteria that we've been talking about turns out to be the most simplest form of life found. There are a number of groups that are proposing that life evolved at these vent sites. Although the vent sites are short-lived — an individual site may last only 10 years or so — as an ecosystem they've been stable for millions — well, billions — of years. DG: It works too well. You see there're some fish inside here as well. There's a fish sitting here. Here's a crab with his claw right at the end of that tube worm, waiting for that worm to stick his head out. (Laughter) BL: The biologists right now cannot explain why these animals are so active. The worms are growing inches per week! DG: I already said that this site, from a human perspective, is toxic as hell. Not only that, but on top — the lifeblood — that plumbing system turns off every year or so. Their plumbing system turns off, so the sites have to move. And then there's earthquakes, and then volcanic eruptions, on the order of one every five years, that completely wipes the area out. Despite that, these animals grow back in about a year's time. You're talking about biodensities and biodiversity, again, higher than the rainforest that just springs back to life. Is it sensitive? Yes. Is it fragile? No, it's not really very fragile. I'll end up with saying one thing. There's a story in the sea, in the waters of the sea, in the sediments and the rocks of the sea floor. It's an incredible story. What we see when we look back in time, in those sediments and rocks, is a record of Earth history. Everything on this planet — everything — works by cycles and rhythms. The continents move apart. They come back together. Oceans come and go. Mountains come and go. Glaciers come and go. El Nino comes and goes. It's not a disaster, it's rhythmic. What we're learning now, it's almost like a symphony. It's just like music — it really is just like music. And what we're learning now is that you can't listen to a five-billion-year long symphony, get to today and say, ""Stop! We want tomorrow's note to be the same as it was today."" It's absurd. It's just absurd. So, what we've got to learn now is to find out where this planet's going at all these different scales and work with it. Learn to manage it. The concept of preservation is futile. Conservation's tougher, but we can probably get there. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)"	（掌聲）大衛•高羅：這位是比爾•蘭奇。 我是大衛•高羅，我們將透過影片告訴你們一些來自海洋的故事。我們有一些從未公開、關於鐵達尼號的不可思議影片，但我們沒有要給你們看。（笑聲） 實際上，鐵達尼號打破了所有票房記錄，但不是海洋裡最驚奇的故事。問題在於，我們自以為很瞭解海洋，海洋佔地表面積的 75 %，地球大部分的地方都被海洋覆蓋，海洋的平均深度大約兩英哩。部分的問題是，當我們站在海邊，或我們看到像這樣關於海洋的影像，你凝視著那廣闊藍色的海域，它閃爍著、它正擺動著、它有波浪，更有潮汐，但你完全不知道裡面存在著什麼。海洋擁有地球上最長的山脈，大部分的動物都住在海裡，大多數的地震和火山也都發生在海裡 -在海底。海洋中的生物歧異度與生物密度比雨林還要高，極大部分的海洋還未被探勘，許多美麗的景色像是這樣令人著迷，同時也讓我們更瞭解它。 當我們站在沙灘上，我要你們這樣思考，你們正站在一個極度不被瞭解的世界的邊緣。我們必須使用非常專門的科技器具才能進入這個不為人所熟悉的世界。我們用潛水艇 Alvin 和照相機，這些相機是由比爾•蘭奇在 Sony 的幫助下研發出來的。馬塞爾•普魯斯特說「發現新大陸的意義並不是去尋找一座新的島嶼，而是給自己一個新的視野。」那些和我們合作的人確實給了我們新的視界，不僅僅看到存在於深海底下的新景觀，同時也改變了我們對這星球上生命的看法。 這是一隻水母，牠是我的最愛之一，因為牠身體各部皆可自由活動，牠是現在已知海中最長的生物，可以達到 150 英呎這麼長。看看牠正在活動的這些部位！我就愛這樣的東西。它的下方有釣魚用的誘餌，牠們上下擺動著，這些觸手擺盪著、旋轉著。牠其實是一種群聚動物，由一群個體聚在一起形成這樣的「牠」。在牠的前面有個類似噴射推進器的東西，等一下就會看到它是如何作用的，上面還有一點光。如果你把所有大魚，魚群，所有種類的魚放到天平的一邊，然後把水母這類動物放到另一邊，水母這邊會輕鬆獲勝喔！ 像水母這樣的生物佔了海中生物總數的決大部分。這是 X 戰機（取自星際大戰）死亡水母。（笑聲）生物螢光 — 牠們使用這種光來吸引伴侶、引誘獵物以及溝通。我們不可能一一個介紹所有列檔的水母，牠們有各式各樣的大小、型狀。 比爾•蘭奇：我們常會忘記大海平均深達數英哩的事實，因為我們所熟悉的生物都生活在兩三百英呎深的淺海，但超過這深度之後，一直到大海的底層，存在著什麼樣的生物，我們並不瞭解。這些是生存在那三度立體空間內的動物種類，那是個我們未曾探索過的微重力環境，你聽說過像是巨型烏賊一類的東西，但是部份這些動物可生長到大約 140 或 160 英呎長。我們對於牠們了解很少。 大衛•高羅：這是其中之一，也是我的最愛其中之一，這是一隻小章魚。你可以完全看穿牠的頭部，牠正在拍動牠的耳朵，非常優雅的往上游。我們在海中各個深度都可以看到他們的蹤跡，甚至一直到海底最深處。牠們的體型從幾英吋到幾英呎都有。當牠們靠近潛水艇時，眼睛會貼著窗戶，窺看著潛水艇裡頭。 這真的是我們所生活的世界中的另一個世界，別有洞天。我們將讓你們看看兩個像這樣子的世界。在這邊，我們深入海洋的中層，看到了像這樣的生物，長得像是深海中的公雞。這傢伙，以某種角度來說，看起來令人難以置信的棒。然後，又一個我的最愛，看牠的臉！你們現在所看到的基本上是一種科學資料，是我們為了科學研究所蒐集的影片。而這正是比爾正在進行的許多研究項目的其中之一，那就是提供科學家們這些生物處於牠們原棲世界中前所未見的影片。他們不用網子來捕捉牠們，實際上他們只在那個世界中觀察牠們。我們只需要操控搖桿，在地表上，坐在我們電腦前面，把搖桿往前推，就能翱翔這星球。 讓我們到中洋脊 (mid-ocean ridge) 看看，那是個長達四萬英哩的山脈。這些山脈頂點的平均深度差不多是一英哩半。我們正在穿越大西洋 — 在那邊，那就是海底山脈 —我們繼續越過加勒比海，中美洲，最後結束在太平洋，赤道以北九度的地方。我們透過聲納來繪製這些山脈的地圖，這是其中之一條山脈。在銀幕的右邊，我們將會看到一個懸崖，不管從那邊的山谷來計算這些山的高度大都比阿爾卑斯山還來得高，而那裡還有數以萬計的山脈還未被勘測。 這是一個火山脊，我們將下潛機械的體積愈縮愈小，最後它看起來像是這樣。 這是我們潛水機器人的圖示 — 他的名字叫傑森。所以你們可以坐在像這樣子的房間內，用這搖桿和耳機，即時地操控像那樣的機器人在海底四處移動。我們與合作夥伴嘗試在 Woods Hole 做的其中一件事情是把這虛擬的世界、這還未被探勘的區域帶回實驗室。因為我們現在所看到的非常零碎，我們可能是藉由聲音、影像、照片或是化學感測器來認識這個世界，但我們尚未能把這些資料整合在一起，以顯示出一幅有趣的畫面， 而這正是比爾所研發的相機大顯身手的地方。這裡被稱作深海熱泉，你所看到這些烏雲狀的物質是富含硫化氫的水，從海底的火山軸線 (volcanic axis) 噴發出來。其溫度可以高達約華氏六、七百度。這些都是海中的水，在深度一英哩半、兩英哩、甚至三英哩深的地方。我們從 60, 70 年代起就知道這裡是火山。那時我們隱約知道這些東西的存在，沿著它的軸線，因為如果有火山活動，水會從大海流進海底的裂縫中，接觸到岩漿，然後變成熱水被噴發，我們並沒有料想到這裡硫化氫的含量會這麼地高，我們對這些暱稱為「煙囪」的東西一點概念也沒有。 這是其中一個深海熱泉，華氏六百度的水從地球內部湧出。在我們兩側任何一邊的山勢都比阿爾卑斯山來得高，所以這邊的風景是非常壯觀的。 比爾：這白色物質是一種細菌，牠能在攝氏一百八十度的環境下存活。 大衛：我想這可列在「今日最偉大發現」排行榜中，我們在海底進行觀察，在看到海底火山爆發後，我們第一個在海底觀察到的東西是細菌。我們訝異了好一陣子，牠們怎麼到那邊的？我們現在知道牠們可能來自地球內部，不只來自於地球內部 —生物起源於火山活動 —這些細菌是這邊生物聚落的養分來源。這裡每平方英吋的壓力高達四千磅，距離海面有一英哩半到三英哩，陽光沒辦法穿透到此。這些生物賴以維生的能量來源全來自於地球內部 — 來自化學合成。你可以看到這邊生物的數量有多密集。這些是被稱為管蟲的動物。 比爾：這些蟲沒有消化系統，牠們沒有嘴。但是他們有兩種構造的鰓。一個可以從深海中的水取得氧氣，另一個用來儲存這些化學合成細菌，這細菌依靠深海熱液維生 —就是你剛剛看到從地底所冒出來的這些熱液 —牠們將熱能轉化成管蟲可以消化的單糖。 大衛：你可以看到也有蟹類活在這深海。他成功地抓到了管蟲的尖端，通常，只要螃蟹碰到牠們，牠們會馬上縮回。喔！就像這樣。所以一旦螃蟹碰到牠們，牠們就會縮回到自己的殼裡，像是你們的指甲。所有的事情都發生在這裡，而我們因為這個新的攝影科技，才剛剛開始對這裡有了點初步認識。 比爾：這些蟲生活在極端的溫度差異下，牠們的腳差不多有攝氏兩百度，而他們的頭卻只有攝氏三度，就像把你們的手浸在燒開的熱水中，同時腳泡在的冰冷的水中一般。這就是牠們喜愛的生活方式。（笑聲） 大衛：這是一隻雌的這種蟲，這是雄的。你看，等一下就有兩個傢伙在這 —這隻和等會兒會在那邊出現的那隻 — 開始打架。你所看到的所有東西，其實都是在漆黑的深海裡。除了我們所攜帶的光源外，那裡不會有一絲光線。牠們要開始打架了。在最後一連串的潛水中的其中一次，在這些地方，我們紀錄了兩百個不同的物種，其中有 198 種是新發現的物種。 比爾：在這些地方工作的生物學家們所遇到的其中最大的一個難題是，想要對這些物種進行採集，相對來說非常的困難，在將牠們帶上海面的途中，牠們也會解體，所以影像對於科學研究變得非常的重要。 大衛：在大約兩英哩深的地方，我們看到了兩隻八爪魚，這裡的壓力非常的巨大，這些動物可以在這壓力大到足以壓扁鐵達尼號就如壓扁空可樂罐一般容易的深度下存活，令我感到非常的驚奇。我們剛剛所看到的都是來自太平洋。這是來自大西洋，甚至更深的深度。你可以看到這隻蝦子正在騷擾這個可憐的小東西，牠將會用牠的螯反擊回去。碰!!!!（笑聲） 類似的事情也在這邊上演著。牠們想要從螃蟹背上獲取的東西是食物，一種很不可思議細菌，生長在所有這些動物的背上。而這些蝦子想做的事是收集所有這些動物背上的細菌。而螃蟹卻一點也不喜歡這種事。你在這螃蟹背上看到的長條絲狀物，這就是那細菌所產生出來的產物。所以，細菌讓螃蟹上長出毛髮。在另一隻背部，你也可以看到相同的東西。這紅點是從潛水艇「雅汶」發射出的雷射光，讓我們知道我們距離出水口有多遠。這些都是蝦子。你看熱水從這幾個地方湧出。牠們攀附在岩石表面，並把細菌從岩石上刮下來。這裡有一個很小的出水口，從旁邊這柱子延伸出來，這些柱子可以高達好幾層樓，所以你所看到的這個山谷有柱子、熱泉、火山爆發和地震，這些不可思議的奇特景色，並有許多奇特的動物棲息在此，只依靠從地底冒出的化學能量過活，他們完全不需要陽光。 比爾：你有看到在蝦子背上白色 V 型的標記嘛？那其實是感光器官，他們就是利用這器官來找尋深海熱泉。這些熱泉會放出黑體輻射 — 一種紅外線，所以他們可以在相當遠的距離發現這些熱泉。 大衛： 這些事情都發生在這四萬英哩長的山脈中，我們稱為生命絲帶，因為即使今天，在這個時刻，有許許多多生命正因為火山的活動而被製造出來。這是第一次，我們從未在其它地方試過，我們嘗試呈現給你在太平洋拍攝的高畫質的影片。我們在這柱狀體當中的一個往上移動，這一個有數層樓高，有很多不同種類的動物棲息在裡面，這有一個奇特的盤狀物，熱泉從裡頭湧出。所有的這些都是管蟲的家。 讓我們靠近一點看這個聚落，這有螃蟹，有管蟲，還有一些更小的動物充斥在此。這是塔狀的結構，我想這是最好看的東西了，對我來說，這些東西百看不厭。你看這裡有小煙囪，還冒著煙。順帶一提，這些物質是超級毒的。你永遠不會被允許傾倒這種東西到海裡去，但這東西就從這裡釋放出來。（笑聲）這是不可思議的。基本上這就是硫酸，以驚人的速度被釋放出來。但這裡的動物卻很興旺 — 我們也可能源自於此，我們可能從這裡演化而來。 比爾：我們曾經提到的這些細菌，被證明是已發現的生命形態中最簡單的。有很多團體正提出生命的演化是始於這些熱泉。雖然這些熱泉都不會存在太久 —每一個地點差不多只能維持十年 —但這樣的生態系統已經穩定存在數百萬年，甚至數十億年的時間。 大衛：這運作的非常好，你看也有一些魚在此，有一隻魚棲息在這，這還有一隻螃蟹，他的螯正擺在管蟲的前端，正在等待管蟲把頭伸出來。（笑聲） 比爾：生物學家現在還沒辦法解釋為什麼這些動物這麼的活躍。這些蟲可以在一週內生長數英吋！ 大衛：我之前說過這地方，從人類的觀點來說，具有劇毒。不只這樣，尤有甚者 — 這些供養生物的命脈 — 一年左右就會消失。一旦這養分供給系統消失，這地點就必須搬移。這裡還有發生地震，火山每五年左右也會爆發一次，火山爆發可以把這地區徹底摧毀。雖然如此，這些動物在一年內就會生長回來。此處的生物多樣性和密集度都比雨林還要高，但就是能迅速恢復欣欣向榮。敏感嘛？是的。脆弱嘛？不是，並沒有這麼脆弱。 最後我再提一件事情，一個在海裡發生的故事，在海底的沈積岩中。這是一個不可思議的故事，這些沈積岩記錄了地球的歷史，讓我們可以回顧地球的過去。每一個在這星球上的事物，都有它的週期和節律。大陸分分合合、海洋淹沒又退去、山脈隆起又平緩、冰河形成又消退、聖嬰現象的來去。這不是災難，而是一種節奏，我們現在學到的，那就像一首交響樂，就像音樂一樣 — 確實像音樂一樣。我們學習到的是，我們好比正在聆聽五十億年長度的交響曲一般，你不能在今天說，「停下來！我希望明天的曲調要跟今天一樣。」荒謬！這太荒謬了。所以我們現在應該學習的是找出地球未來的走向，從各種不同的層面，嘗試與之合作，並學習去掌握它。只是「保存」是沒有用的，「保育」更是困難，但是或許我們能做得到。非常謝謝大家。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
