Talk	en	zh-tw
david_binder_the_arts_festival_revolution	"Sydney. I had been waiting my whole life to get to Sydney. I got to the airport, to the hotel, checked in, and, sitting there in the lobby, was a brochure for the Sydney Festival. I thumbed through it, and I came across a show called ""Minto: Live."" The description read: ""The suburban streets of Minto become the stage for performances created by international artists in collaboration with the people of Minto."" What was this place called Minto? Sydney, as I would learn, is a city of suburbs, and Minto lies southwest, about an hour away. I have to say, it wasn't exactly what I had in mind for my first day down under. I mean, I'd thought about the Harbour Bridge or Bondi Beach, but Minto? But still, I'm a producer, and the lure of a site-specific theater project was more than I could resist. (Laughter) So, off I went into Friday afternoon traffic, and I'll never forget what I saw when I got there. For the performance, the audience walked around the neighborhood from house to house, and the residents, who were the performers, they came out of their houses, and they performed these autobiographical dances on their lawns, on their driveways. (Laughter) The show is a collaboration with a U.K.-based performance company called Lone Twin. Lone Twin had come to Minto and worked with the residents, and they had created these dances. This Australian-Indian girl, she came out and started to dance on her front lawn, and her father peered out the window to see what all the noise and commotion was about, and he soon joined her. And he was followed by her little sister. And soon they were all dancing this joyous, exuberant dance right there on their lawn. (Laughter) And as I walked through the neighborhood, I was amazed and I was moved by the incredible sense of ownership this community clearly felt about this event. ""Minto: Live"" brought Sydneysiders into dialogue with international artists, and really celebrated the diversity of Sydney on its own terms. The Sydney Festival which produced ""Minto: Live"" I think represents a new kind of 21st-century arts festival. These festivals are radically open. They can transform cities and communities. To understand this, I think it kind of makes sense to look where we've come from. Modern arts festivals were born in the rubble of World War II. Civic leaders created these annual events to celebrate culture as the highest expression of the human spirit. In 1947, the Edinburgh Festival was born and Avignon was born and hundreds of others would follow in their wake. The work they did was very, very high art, and stars came along like Laurie Anderson and Merce Cunningham and Robert Lepage who made work for this circuit, and you had these seminal shows like ""The Mahabharata"" and the monumental ""Einstein on the Beach."" But as the decades passed, these festivals, they really became the establishment, and as the culture and capital accelerated, the Internet brought us all together, high and low kind of disappeared, a new kind of festival emerged. The old festivals, they continued to thrive, but from Brighton to Rio to Perth, something new was emerging, and these festivals were really different. They're open, these festivals, because, like in Minto, they understand that the dialogue between the local and the global is essential. They're open because they ask the audience to be a player, a protagonist, a partner, rather than a passive spectator, and they're open because they know that imagination cannot be contained in buildings, and so much of the work they do is site-specific or outdoor work. So, the new festival, it asks the audience to play an essential role in shaping the performance. Companies like De La Guarda, which I produce, and Punchdrunk create these completely immersive experiences that put the audience at the center of the action, but the German performance company Rimini Protokoll takes this all to a whole new level. In a series of shows that includes ""100 Percent Vancouver,"" ""100 Percent Berlin,"" Rimini Protokoll makes shows that actually reflect society. Rimini Protokoll chooses 100 people that represent that city at that moment in terms of race and gender and class, through a careful process that begins three months before, and then those 100 people share stories about themselves and their lives, and the whole thing becomes a snapshot of that city at that moment. LIFT has always been a pioneer in the use of venues. They understand that theater and performance can happen anywhere. You can do a show in a schoolroom, in an airport, — (Laughter) — in a department store window. Artists are explorers. Who better to show us the city anew? Artists can take us to a far-flung part of the city that we haven't explored, or they can take us into that building that we pass every day but we never went into. An artist, I think, can really show us people that we might overlook in our lives. Back to Back is an Australian company of people with intellectual disabilities. I saw their amazing show in New York at the Staten Island Ferry Terminal at rush hour. We, the audience, were given headsets and seated on one side of the terminal. The actors were right there in front of us, right there among the commuters, and we could hear them, but we might not have otherwise seen them. So Back to Back takes site-specific theater and uses it to gently remind us about who and what we choose to edit out of our daily lives. So, the dialogue with the local and the global, the audience as participant and player and protagonist, the innovative use of site, all of these things come to play in the amazing work of the fantastic French company Royal de Luxe. Royal de Luxe's giant puppets come into a city and they live there for a few days. For ""The Sultan's Elephant,"" Royal de Luxe came to central London and brought it to a standstill with their story of a giant little girl and her friend, a time-traveling elephant. For a few days, they transformed a massive city into a community where endless possibility reigned. The Guardian wrote, ""If art is about transformation, then there can be no more transformative experience. What 'The Sultan's Elephant' represents is no less than an artistic occupation of the city and a reclamation of the streets for the people."" We can talk about the economic impacts of these festivals on their cities, but I'm much [more] interested in many more things, like how a festival helps a city to express itself, how it lets it come into its own. Festivals promote diversity, they bring neighbors into dialogue, they increase creativity, they offer opportunities for civic pride, they improve our general psychological well-being. In short, they make cities better places to live. Case in point: When ""The Sultan's Elephant"" came to London just nine months after 7/7, a Londoner wrote, ""For the first time since the London bombings, my daughter called up with that sparkle back in her voice. She had gathered with others to watch 'The Sultan's Elephant,' and, you know, it just made all the difference."" Lyn Gardner in The Guardian has written that a great festival can show us a map of the world, a map of the city and a map of ourselves, but there is no one fixed festival model. I think what's so brilliant about the festivals, the new festivals, is that they are really fully capturing the complexity and the excitement of the way we all live today. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"雪梨，我想去雪梨已經想了一輩子我到了機場，到了酒店，到櫃檯登記了然後，坐在酒店大廳，看到一本有關''雪梨藝術節'' 的小冊子，我翻了一下然後我看到一個叫 ""明托：即時秀""的節目上面的介紹是：'' 明托郊區的街道變成表演者的舞台由國際藝術家與明托居民合力完成的創作 這個明托 是個甚麼樣地方呢據我所知，雪梨周遭有許多郊區城市還有明托位於西南方，車程大概一小時說實話 我第一天抵達Down Under (澳洲的俗稱) 時覺得這地方和我想的不一樣我是說 我原本以為像雪梨港灣大橋，或是邦迪海灘那樣而明托呢？沒錯 我是個製作人而我對環境劇場這種企劃幾乎是沒有抵抗力的 (笑聲) 所以 我就跟假期尾聲的車潮一樣瘋了我永遠也忘不了當初第一眼看到的景象說說表演形式吧，社區裡的觀眾漫步在鄰里之間的房子還有那些居民，他們同時也是表演者他們走出家門，他們在自家草坪上表演那些展現自我意識的舞蹈在自家車道上 (笑聲)這場表演是和一間來自英國的表演公司合力製作的，這間公司叫做"" 孤獨孿生子""""孤獨孿生子"" 來到明托，然後和當地居民合作，然後他們就創造出這些舞蹈了 這位是澳印混血的女孩，她走出來然後在自家草坪上跳起舞來然後她父親從窗戶後面探出頭來看看外面那些噪音和騷動是怎麼回事然後他就加入她然後她妹妹跟在他後面過沒多久 他們就開心地一起跳舞就在自家草坪 生氣勃勃的舞蹈 (笑聲) 當我走進這個社區時我深感驚喜，而居民們用這樣的舉止清楚地表達自己是這個社區的所有人，也讓我感到不可思議""明托：即時秀’’ 讓雪梨週圍的居民和國際藝術家建立起聯繫，並用自己的方式誠心歡慶雪梨擁有的多樣性 雪莉藝術節創造了''明托：即時秀'' 這個節目，我認為這代表的是21世紀藝術慶典的新風貌這些慶典極為開明能使城市和社區轉型 為了深入瞭解 我覺得尋找自身的源頭是滿合理的作法當代的藝術節誕生於第二次世界大戰的廢墟之中市政領導者率先舉辦了這些年度慶典目的是為了慶祝文化成為人類精神最高的表徵1947年，愛丁堡藝術節誕生了然後亞維儂 (藝術節) 誕生了 接著數以百計的藝術節相繼崛起他們的作品是非常非常前衛的藝術還有像是羅瑞安德森 (知名前衛音樂家) 這種明星的參與以及摩斯康寧漢 (現代舞蹈之父) 和羅勃勒帕奇 (知名劇場導演)都在這個領域發表過作品然後你們會看到以藝術濫觴為題材的 "" 摩訶婆羅達 (印度史詩)""還有留名青史的 ""沙灘上的愛因斯坦"" 而十年過去了這些藝術節真的成就非凡隨著文化水準的提升、規模的擴大還有網路縮短了我們之間的距離階級的界線可說是消失了一種新型態的藝術節出現了 舊型態的藝術節持續成長發展但是在英國、里約 (巴西) 和伯斯 (澳洲) 出現了新的東西這些藝術節真的很不一樣他們很開明，因為這些藝術節，例如明托的他們了解，在地與全球之間必須有溝通管道為什麼說他們開明?因為他們邀請觀眾擔當演員、當主角、當夥伴，而不是當個被動的旁觀者說他們開明，因為他們知道想像力不能侷限在室內他們的創造有許多都是場地限定藝術或是戶外演出 所以，新的藝術節邀請觀眾扮演關鍵角色，改變了表演的風貌像是 ""守護者"" ，也就是我負責的公司，還有 ""七暈八素""也是讓觀眾產生全然沉浸其中的體驗，因為他們將觀眾放在表演的中心但是德國表演公司，""里米尼協議""將之提升到全新的層次連 ""百分百加拿大人""在內，還有""百分百柏林人"" ， 里米尼協議製作的一連串的戲劇都反映出實際的社會現象里米尼協議劇團選出了一百人來代表一座城市正值種族、性別、階級等議題紛爭之時準備活動在三個月前就開始警慎地進行然後這一百人跟大家分享故事分享自己和自己的生活 整齣戲在此刻變成了這座城市的快照左派份子一直都是抗議現場的先驅者他們了解劇院和表演其實是無所不在的你可以在教室表演在機場 — — (笑聲) — —在百貨公司的櫥窗 藝術家是探險家，誰比他們更能適合展示我們城市的新風貌？藝術家能帶我們到城市遙遠的那一端我們沒見識過的地方，他們也能帶我們去我們每天經過，卻永遠不會走進去的建築 我認為，藝術家真的能帶我們看到自己生命中被忽略的部分""背對背"" 是一家澳洲公司，他們的成員都有智力障礙。我看過他們驚人的表演在紐約的斯塔騰島渡輪碼頭時間是尖峰時刻我們這些觀眾拿到耳機之後坐在碼頭邊表演者就在我們面前就坐在那些通勤者之中我們能聽到他們可是我們不一定能看到他們所以背對背劇團選擇了場域特地藝術這種形式他們輕輕的點醒了，我們選擇了誰，選擇了甚麼來剪輯自己的日常生活 如此一來，本地和全球之間對上話了觀眾是其中一份子，是演員也是主角創新的表演場地 ，所有這些東西都包含在這場令人驚異的表演由奇妙的法國公司"" 皇家德陸仕""製作皇家德陸仕劇團的巨型木偶走進一座城市他們在那裡待了幾天。 為了"" 蘇丹的大象"" 這場表演，皇家德陸仕來到倫敦市中心，然後讓玩偶停在那兒帶著他們的故事，一個巨大的小女孩和她朋友、一隻時間旅行的大象短短幾天 他們就改變了一座大城市使其變成一個社群，讓到處都充滿著可能性衛報寫道："" 如果藝術是種變形那藝術就再也無法體驗改革了"" 蘇丹的大象"" 代表的意義不只是藝術佔領了一座城市或是替居民開拓街道 我們可以聊聊這些表演在當地發揮的經濟影響力，但我更關心的是，更多其他的事情像是藝術節如何幫助一座城市表達自己如何使城市能承先啟後藝術節提倡多元性他們讓社區加入討論的行列他們提升創造力他們提供機會，使公民得以凝聚認同感他們改善我們整體的心理幸福感總之，他們讓城市更適合人們生活 舉個貼切的例子：當"" 蘇丹的大象"" 來到倫敦在7/7 (倫敦地鐵爆炸事件) 的九個月後 ，一位倫敦人寫道"" 自從發生倫敦爆炸事件，這是第一次我女兒說話時的聲音重現活力了她和其他人一起去看 ""蘇丹的大象""，你知道嗎它讓一切都不一樣了林賈德 (劇評家) 在衛報上寫著偉大的藝術節能展開全世界， 讓我們看到一張城市的地圖，一張我們自己的地圖但是藝術節沒有固定模式我認為藝術節聰明之處我的意思是新型態的藝術節，是他們真正捕捉到那些我們生活方式的複雜性和刺激性的全貌非常謝謝大家（掌聲）"
