Talk	en	zh-tw
david_logan_on_tribal_leadership	"What we're really here to talk about is the ""how."" Okay, so how exactly do we create this world-shattering, if you will, innovation? Now, I want to tell you a quick story. We'll go back a little more than a year. In fact, the date — I'm curious to know if any of you know what happened on this momentous date? It was February 3rd, 2008. Anyone remember what happened, February 3rd, 2008? Super Bowl. I heard it over here. It was the date of the Super Bowl. And the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues, John King and Halee Fischer-Wright, and I noticed as we began to debrief various Super Bowl parties, is that it seemed to us that across the United States, if you will, tribal councils had convened. And they had discussed things of great national importance. Like, ""Do we like the Budweiser commercial?"" and, ""Do we like the nachos?"" and, ""Who is going to win?"" But they also talked about which candidate they were going to support. And if you go back in time to February 3rd, it looked like Hilary Clinton was going to get the Democratic nomination. And there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way. But when we talked to people, it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the United States. Now what is a tribe? A tribe is a group of about 20 — so kind of more than a team — 20 to about 150 people. And it's within these tribes that all of our work gets done. But not just work. It's within these tribes that societies get built, that important things happen. And so as we surveyed the, if you will, representatives from various tribal councils that met, also known as Super Bowl parties, we sent the following email off to 40 newspaper editors the following day. February 4th, we posted it on our website. This was before Super Tuesday. We said, ""The tribes that we're in are saying it's going to be Obama."" Now, the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes, studying these naturally occurring groups. All of you are members of tribes. In walking around at the break, many of you had met members of your tribe. And you were talking to them. And many of you were doing what great, if you will, tribal leaders do, which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe, and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe, and make introductions. That is in fact what great tribal leaders do. So here is the bottom line. If you focus in on a group like this — this happens to be a USC game — and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people, you would in fact see not a single crowd, just like there is not a single crowd here, but you would see these tribes that are then coming together. And from a distance it appears that it's a single group. And so people form tribes. They always have. They always will. Just as fish swim and birds fly, people form tribes. It's just what we do. But here's the rub. Not all tribes are the same, and what makes the difference is the culture. Now here is the net out of this. You're all a member of tribes. If you can find a way to take the tribes that you're in and nudge them forward, along these tribal stages to what we call Stage Five, which is the top of the mountain. But we're going to start with what we call Stage One. Now, this is the lowest of the stages. You don't want this. Okay? This is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen. But it's one that I think we need to learn from. Stage One produces people who do horrible things. This is the kid who shot up Virginia Tech. Stage One is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes, and then pool together with people who think like they do. Stage One is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons. Now, again, we don't often deal with Stage One. And I want to make the point that as members of society, we need to. It's not enough to simply write people off. But let's move on to Stage Two. Now, Stage One, you'll notice, says, in effect, ""Life Sucks."" So, this other book that Steve mentioned, that just came out, called ""The Three Laws of Performance,"" my colleague, Steve Zaffron and I, argue that as people see the world, so they behave. Well, if people see the world in such a way that life sucks, then their behavior will follow automatically from that. It will be despairing hostility. They'll do whatever it takes to survive, even if that means undermining other people. Now, my birthday is coming up shortly, and my driver's license expires. And the reason that that's relevant is that very soon I will be walking into what we call a Stage Two tribe, which looks like this. (Laughter) Now, am I saying that in every Department of Motor Vehicles across the land, you find a Stage Two culture? No. But in the one near me, where I have to go in just a few days, what I will say when I'm standing in line is, ""How can people be so dumb, and yet live?"" (Laughter) Now, am I saying that there are dumb people working here? Actually, no, I'm not. But I'm saying the culture makes people dumb. So in a Stage Two culture — and we find these in all sorts of different places — you find them, in fact, in the best organizations in the world. You find them in all places in society. I've come across them at the organizations that everybody raves about as being best in class. But here is the point. If you believe and you say to people in your tribe, in effect, ""My life sucks. I mean, if I got to go to TEDx USC my life wouldn't suck. But I don't. So it does."" If that's how you talked, imagine what kind of work would get done. What kind of innovation would get done? The amount of world-changing behavior that would happen? In fact it would be basically nil. Now when we go on to Stage Three: this is the one that hits closest to home for many of us. Because it is in Stage Three that many of us move. And we park. And we stay. Stage Three says, ""I'm great. And you're not."" (Laughter) I'm great and you're not. Now imagine having a whole room of people saying, in effect, ""I'm great and you're not."" Or, ""I'm going to find some way to compete with you and come out on top as a result of that."" A whole group of people communicating that way, talking that way. I know this sounds like a joke. Three doctors walk into a bar. But, in this case, three doctors walk into an elevator. I happened to be in the elevator collecting data for this book. And one doctor said to the others, ""Did you see my article in the New England Journal of Medicine?"" And the other said, ""No. That's great. Congratulations!"" The next one got kind of a wry smile on his face and said, ""Well while you were, you know, doing your research,"" — notice the condescending tone — ""While you were off doing your research, I was off doing more surgeries than anyone else in the department of surgery at this institution."" And the third one got the same wry smile and said, ""Well, while you were off doing your research, and you were off doing your monkey meatball surgery, that eventually we'll train monkeys to do, or cells or robots, or maybe not even need to do it at all, I was off running the future of the residency program, which is really the future of medicine."" And they all kind of laughed and they patted him on the back. And the elevator door opened, and they all walked out. That is a meeting of a Stage Three tribe. Now, we find these in places where really smart, successful people show up. Like, oh, I don't know, TEDx USC. (Laughter) Here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation. It is moving from Stage Three to Stage Four. Let's take a look at a quick video snippet. This is from a company called Zappos, located outside Las Vegas. And my question on the other side is just going to be, ""What do you think they value?"" It was not Christmas time. There was a Christmas tree. This is their lobby. Employees volunteer time in the advice booth. Notice it looks like something out of a Peanuts cartoon. Okay, we're going through the hallway here at Zappos. This is a call center. Notice how it's decorated. Notice people are applauding for us. They don't know who we are and they don't care. And if they did they probably wouldn't applaud. But you'll notice the level of excitement. Notice, again, how they decorate their office. Now, what's important to people at Zappos, these may not be the things that are important to you. But they value things like fun. And they value creativity. One of their stated values is, ""Be a little bit weird."" And you'll notice they are a little bit weird. So when individuals come together and find something that unites them that's greater than their individual competence, then something very important happens. The group gels. And it changes from a group of highly motivated but fairly individually-centric people into something larger, into a tribe that becomes aware of its own existence. Stage Four tribes can do remarkable things. But you'll notice we're not at the top of the mountain yet. There is, in fact, another stage. Now, some of you may not recognize the scene that's up here. And if you take a look at the headline of Stage Five, which is ""Life is Great,"" this may seem a little incongruous. This is a scene or snippet from the Truth and Reconciliation process in South Africa for which Desmond Tutu won the Nobel Prize. Now think about that. South Africa, terrible atrocities had happened in the society. And people came together focused only on those two values: truth and reconciliation. There was no road map. No one had ever done anything like this before. And in this atmosphere, where the only guidance was people's values and their noble cause, what this group accomplished was historic. And people, at the time, feared that South Africa would end up going the way that Rwanda has gone, descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end. In fact, South Africa has not gone down that road. Largely because people like Desmond Tutu set up a Stage Five process to involve the thousands and perhaps millions of tribes in the country, to bring everyone together. So, people hear this and they conclude the following, as did we in doing the study. Okay, got it. I don't want to talk Stage One. That's like, you know, ""Life sucks."" Who wants to talk that way? I don't want to talk like they do at the particular DMV that's close to where Dave lives. I really don't want to just say ""I'm great,"" because that kind of sounds narcissistic, and then I won't have any friends. Saying, ""We're great"" — that sounds pretty good. But I should really talk Stage Five, right? ""Life is great."" Well, in fact, there are three somewhat counter-intuitive findings that come out of all this. The first one, if you look at the Declaration of Independence and actually read it, the phrase that sticks in many of our minds is things about inalienable rights. I mean, that's Stage Five, right? Life is great, oriented only by our values, no other guidance. In fact, most of the document is written at Stage Two. ""My life sucks because I live under a tyrant, also known as King George. We're great! Who is not great? England!"" Sorry. (Laughter) Well, what about other great leaders? What about Gandhi? What about Martin Luther King? I mean, surely these were just people who preached, ""Life is great,"" right? Just one little bit of happiness and joy after another. In fact, Martin Luther King's most famous line was at Stage Three. He didn't say ""We have a dream."" He said, ""I have a dream."" Why did he do that? Because most people are not at Stage Five. Two percent are at Stage One. About 25 percent are at Stage Two, saying, in effect, ""My life sucks."" 48 percent of working tribes say, these are employed tribes, say, ""I'm great and you're not."" And we have to duke it out every day, so we resort to politics. Only about 22 percent of tribes are at Stage Four, oriented by our values, saying ""We're great. And our values are beginning to unite us."" Only two percent, only two percent of tribes get to Stage Five. And those are the ones that change the world. So the first little finding from this is that leaders need to be able to talk all the levels so that you can touch every person in society. But you don't leave them where you found them. Okay? Tribes can only hear one level above and below where they are. So we have to have the ability to talk all the levels, to go to where they are. And then leaders nudge people within their tribes to the next level. I'd like to show you some examples of this. One of the people we interviewed was Frank Jordan, former Mayor of San Francisco. Before that he was Chief of Police in San Francisco. And he grew up essentially in Stage One. And you know what changed his life? It was walking into one of these, a Boys and Girls Club. Now here is what happened to this person who eventually became Mayor of San Francisco. He went from being alive and passionate at Stage One — remember, ""Life sucks, despairing hostility, I will do whatever it takes to survive"" — to walking into a Boys and Girls Club, folding his arms, sitting down in a chair, and saying, ""Wow. My life really sucks. I don't know anybody. I mean, if I was into boxing, like they were, then my life wouldn't suck. But I don't. So it does. So I'm going to sit here in my chair and not do anything."" In fact, that's progress. We move people from Stage One to Stage Two by getting them in a new tribe and then, over time, getting them connected. So, what about moving from Stage Three to Stage Four? I want to argue that we're doing that right here. TED represents a set of values, and as we unite around these values, something really interesting begins to emerge. If you want this experience to live on as something historic, then at the reception tonight I'd like to encourage you to do something beyond what people normally do and call networking. Which is not just to meet new people and extend your reach, extend your influence, but instead, find someone you don't know, and find someone else you don't know, and introduce them. That's called a triadic relationship. See, people who build world-changing tribes do that. They extend the reach of their tribes by connecting them, not just to myself, so that my following is greater, but I connect people who don't know each other to something greater than themselves. And ultimately that adds to their values. But we're not done yet. Because then how do we go from Stage Four, which is great, to Stage Five? The story that I like to end with is this. It comes out of a place called the Gallup Organization. You know they do polls, right? So it's Stage Four. We're great. Who is not great? Pretty much everybody else who does polls. If Gallup releases a poll on the same day that NBC releases a poll, people will pay attention to the Gallup poll. Okay, we understand that. So, they were bored. They wanted to change the world. So here is the question someone asked. ""How could we, instead of just polling what Asia thinks or what the United States thinks, or who thinks what about Obama versus McCain or something like that, what does the entire world think?"" And they found a way to do the first-ever world poll. They had people involved who were Nobel laureates in economics, who reported being bored. And suddenly they pulled out sheets of paper and were trying to figure out, ""How do we survey the population of Sub-Saharan Africa? How do we survey populations that don't have access to technology, and speak languages we don't speak, and we don't know anyone who speaks those languages. Because in order to achieve on this great mission, we have to be able to do it. Incidentally, they did pull it off. And they released the first-ever world poll. So I'd like to leave you with these thoughts. First of all: we all form tribes, all of us. You're in tribes here. Hopefully you're extending the reach of the tribes that you have. But the question on the table is this: What kind of an impact are the tribes that you are in making? You're hearing one presentation after another, often representing a group of people, a tribe, about how they have changed the world. If you do what we've talked about, you listen for how people actually communicate in the tribes that you're in. And you don't leave them where they are. You nudge them forward. You remember to talk all five culture stages. Because we've got people in all five, around us. And the question that I'd like to leave you with is this: Will your tribes change the world? Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我們在此真正要談的是""如何.""好的, 我們究竟如何創造出這震憾世界的創新呢? 我想先來說個小故事.我們回到一年多以前.事實上 這日期 — 我很好奇想知道你們有沒有人記得這個重大日期發生了什麼事?這天是２月３號 2008年有人記得發生了什麼事,２月３號 2008那年?美國超級盃. 我有聽到. 對是超級盃的日子. 這個日子之所以重大是因為我的同事 約翰．金恩海莉．費雪萊特 跟我注意到當我們開始問起幾個不同超級盃聚會的事,好像是橫跨整個美國,你想, 所有部落的首領都已經聚集.他們討論了舉國關注的事情.像是 ""我們喜歡百威啤酒的廣告嗎?""還有 ""墨西哥玉米片好吃嗎?"" 跟 ""那隊會贏?""他們還談到即將要支持那個總統人選. 如果你回到２月３號那個時間點,看起來好像希拉蕊將要得到民主黨的提名.而且有些民調顯示她將會得到角逐的機會.但是當我們跟人談到這事,好像逆轉效應已經發生而且遍及到全美各地的所有部落.那什麼是部落呢? 部落是一群大約20人 — 像是比團隊還大一點 —20 到 150 人不等.我們所有的工作都在這些部落裡面完成.但不只是工作. 在這些部落裡面社群得以創建,重要的事情才能發生. 當我們去調查, 這些代表不同部落來參與聚會的人,這些所謂的超級盃聚會,隔天我們送電子郵件出去給40位報紙的編輯.二月４號, 我們公佈在網站上. 在超級星期二之前.我們己經說, ""我們所在的這些部落裡正在傳說將會是歐巴馬.""我們之所以知道這個是因為我們已經花了10年研究部落, 研究這些自然發生的團體們. 你們現場所有人都是部落的成員.中場休息時你們會到處走動你們已經見過部落裡的其他成員. 你們會彼此交談.你們做的事是優秀的部落領導者也會做的,那就是找到某人某個部落的成員,然後找到另一個不同部落的成員,彼此做介紹.這就是一個優秀部落領導者會做的事. 所以主要重點是.假如你把聚焦在像這樣的一個團體 —這是一場終極格鬥錦標賽的場地 —你從超級的人造衛星攝影機上把鏡頭拉近,放大到你可以看到個人的影像,事實上你看不到個別的群眾,就好像沒有個別群眾在這裡,你會看到部落聚集在一起.從遠處看起來會像是單一團體.所以人們形成部落.過去如此. 未來也將是如此.就像是魚會游泳, 鳥會飛翔,人形成部落. 這是我們習以為常的.不過這只是表層.並不是所有部落都一樣.其中的差異就在文化. 這就是根本的所在.你們所有人都是部落的成員.假使你可以找到一個辦法把你所在的部落推動向前,通過這些部落階段到我們稱為「階段五」就是山頂.但是我們先從「階段一」開始.這是最底層的階段.幫個忙, 你不會想要這個.這畫面要放出來有點困難.但是我想我們需要從這裡學習. 「階段一」製造出作可怕事情的人.這是在維吉尼亞理工持槍殺人的那小孩.「階段一」是一群人形成的部落只為滿足基本生存功能,而聚集在一起的人都是跟他們有同樣想法的.照字意說「階段一」就是幫派的文化是囚犯的文化.還好現在我們不會常遇到「階段一」.不過我要強調一個重點身為社會群體的一員, 我們需要去.不只是去消弭這些處於底層的人. 不過讓我們先來談「階段二」.你會注意到「階段一」的人常說 ""生活糟透了""史提夫 提到的另一本書,才剛出版 叫 ""績效三大定律""我的同事 史提夫．塞隆 跟我,思辯到: 人的行為取決於他怎麼看這世界.如果有人看這個世界是爛透了的生活,那他的行為就會自動的從那點出發.那將會是絶望而忿恨的生活.他們會為了生存什麼事都做得出來,甚至不惜傷害別人. 再過不久就是我的生日,那我的駕照也快到期了.這之所以有關連是因為很快的我就要走進到我們所謂的「階段二」部落.看起來像這個樣子.(笑聲)我現在指的是在各地的監理所你都可以找到「階段二」文化嗎?不是的. 只是這家離我比較近,再過幾天我就要去報到的,在大排長龍等待的時候我想說,""像這樣笨的人們怎麼有辦法還活著?""(笑聲) 我是說在那裡工作的人是笨蛋嗎?實際上, 我不是那個意思.我是指文化讓人變笨了.所以在「階段二」文化 —我們可以在很多不同的地方發現 —你甚至會在全世界最好的組織裡也找到.在社會的群體裡到處都可以找到.以往我遍尋這些為人們所津津樂道的這些最好的組織.但這有個重點. 假使你相信而且你跟你部落裡的人說,""我的生活糟透了.我是說我一定要去參加 TEDx USC我的生活才不會太糟, 可是我沒去. 所以 XD""如果那是你講話的方式, 可想你做事的結果如何.你能成就怎麼樣的創新呢?多少改變世界的行為會發生呢?應該會是零分吧. 讓我們進到「階段三」: 這個是我們大多數人最接近的.因為在「階段三」裡我們大多數人到達後.就停下來. 而且留住了.「階段三」的口頭禪是 ""我很優秀 你們不行.""(笑聲)我很優秀 你們不行.想像一下一整個房間的人一起說 ""我很優秀 你們不行""或是 ""我要想個辦法跟你競爭一定要分出高下才行.""一整群的人用這種方式說話跟溝通. 我知道這聽起來像個笑話. 三個醫生走進酒吧裡不過這次三個醫生走進一部電梯裡.我剛好在那部電梯裡蒐集這本書的資料.第一個醫生說, ""你看過我那篇文章嗎?登在新英格蘭醫學期刊上那篇?第二個醫生說 ""沒看過, 不過那很棒, 恭喜!"" 然後他臉上帶著詭異的笑容說,""當你在做你的研究的時候,""注意到他不屑的聲調 —""當你在做研究的時候, 我多做了手術數量超過我們部門其他所有的人."" 然後第三個醫生也是皮笑肉不笑地說,""當你在做你的研究時,然後你在做你的猴子肉丸手術時,我們遲早會訓練猴子來做,或手機或是機器人, 也許以後完全不用動手術,我在執行未來的住宅計劃那才是醫學的真正未來."" 然後他們全笑著, 在他背後作出拜他的姿勢.接著電梯門開了. 他們就鳥獸散了.這是「階段三」部落的會面方式.這種對話到處都是參與其中的不乏聰明成功的人.就像, 哦 我不曉得, TEDx USC.(笑聲) 在創新上我們面臨的最大挑戰是.是從「階段三」進到「階段四」.讓我們來看一下這段影片.這是一家叫做 Zappos 的公司, 位於拉斯維加斯外.我想問的問題是,""你認為他們所看重的價值是什麼?""這不是聖誕節的時候. 但是這裡有顆聖誕樹.這是他們的大廰.員工們自願花時間在建言櫃台.注意到這個看起來像是從史努比卡通出來的東西. 我們從 Zappos 的走廊穿過去.這是客服電話中心. 注意一下這些裝飾.注意到這些人向我們拍手歡呼.他們不認識我們而且也不在意. 如果他們認識我們那他們可能就不會拍手了.但是你注意到興奮的程度.再注意一下他們是如何裝飾辦公室的.對 Zappos 裡的人來說最重要的是,這些可能對你來說不重要.但是他們對""好玩""這件事很看重. 還有創新力.他們的信條裡有一條是 ""有一點點的詭異.""你注意到他們真是有點詭異. 所以當幾個人聚在一起找到可以結合他們的一些東西這比他們個別的能力還棒,然後非常重要的事發生了.這團體粘住. 然後改變了從一個具有高度動機但還是以個人為中心的團體,變成比較大的東西,變成一個能覺察自身存在的部落.「階段四」的部落能做出驚人之舉.你有注意到那還沒到達山頂呢.事實上, 有這另一個階段. 你們可能認不出來這張相片的拍攝地點.請看一下投影片上「階段五」的標題, ""生命很讚,""這也許看起來有點不協調.這個地方在南非 「真相與和解處理中心」是 圖圖大主教 贏得諾貝爾奬的地方.現在請各位想一下, 南非,社會到處充斥著可怕的暴力.可是人們卻聚在一起只專注在兩個價值上: 真相與和解.沒有預定的計劃. 沒人之前曾經做過類似的事. 在這個氛圍中唯一的指導方針是人們的價值觀, 與他們的崇高情操,這個團體所完成的事是有歷史意義的.在那個時候人們很害怕南非會步入盧安達的後塵.在一場場的戰事中沉淪下去這內戰看樣子沒有終點.事實上南非到後來沒有走入絶路.主要是因為像 圖圖大主教 這樣的人設定了「階段五」的程序讓幾千人到後來可能有上百萬的人來參與國家裡的部落, 把每個人聚集起來.當人們聽到這個他們會做以下結論,就像我們所做的研究結果. 好, 了解. 我不想談「階段一」.就好像 ""生命糟透了"" 誰要這樣講話啊?在我家附近的監理所我也不要講起話來像他們一樣.我真的不想要直說 ""我很優秀.""因為那聽起來有點自私. 而且我會沒有朋友.說 ""我們很優秀"" 這聽起來就很棒.但我們應該要再談「階段五」才對吧? ""生命很讚."" 事實上, 從所有的研究顯示出有三個似非而是的發現.第一, 如果你看一下美國的獨立宣言,而且實際去讀,那些深植我們多數人腦海的句子都是關於""不可剥奪人權""的事情.這不就是「階段五」了嗎? 生命很讚,只源自於我們自身的價值,不是從當權者.事實上, 這個文件大部份成稿於「階段二」.""我的生活糟透了, 因為活於暴君統治下,那時的喬治國王.我們很優秀! 誰不行? 英國!""對不起. (笑聲) 那其他優秀的領導者呢? 像甘地像 馬丁．路德．金恩這些人都鼓吹 ""生命很讚"" 對吧?其中只有差一點點的幸福與愉悅.事實上, 馬丁．路德．金恩 的名句是在「階段三」.他沒說 ""我們有一個夢想"" 而是 ""我有一個夢想""他當時為何如此呢? 因為大部份的人並不在「階段五」. 百分之２的人在「階段一」.大約百分之25的人在「階段二」,被 ""我的生活糟透了"" 所影響.百分之48的人是受雇者部落, 他們說""我很優秀, 你們不行.""然後我們每天都把事情搞得泛政治化了.只有約百分之22的部落是在「階段四」,源於自身的價值而說 ""我們都很讚.而且我們的價值開始把我們團結起來.""只有兩個百分比的部落能到達「階段五」.這些是能改變世界的人. 這個研究從這第一個小發現起頭領導者必需要能跟各階段的人對話所以你才能觸動到社會裡的每個人.但是你不能只讓他們留在原地就好.部落只能聽得進去他們上或下一層的話.所以我們要能跟不同階段的人對話, 然後到他們的地方.領導者會推動人們進到他們的下個階段.我要讓大家看一下一些例子. 法蘭克．喬登 是我們訪談的人之一他是前舊金山市市長. 在那之前他是舊金山警察局局長.他小時候從「階段一」的環境長大.你知道什麼改變了他的生命嗎? 有一天他走進了一個青少年活動中心.讓我們看看什麼事發生在這個人身上這個後來變成舊金山市長的小孩.看他現在充滿活力與熱情在「階段一」記得嗎? ""生命糟透了,絶望與忿恨, 無惡不做只求生存"" —他走進青少年活動中心時,抱緊他的雙手, 坐在椅子上,然後說 ""哇, 我的生活真是糟透了!我一個人都不認識如果我像那裡的人一樣有學過拳擊的話,或許我的生活就不那麼糟了, 唉, 習慣就好.所以我還是在這裡坐著看看就好了."" 別小看這, 這就是進展!我們把人從「階段一」移到「階段二」只是引他們進到新的部落.過一陣子再讓他們接上線.那, 怎麼從「階段三」進到「階段四」呢?其實我們現在在這裡正在做這件事.T-E-D 代表了一些價值的集合.而我們因為認同這些價值而結合,然後一些真正有趣的事開始發展出來. 如果你想要這樣深具歷史意義的經驗進入到你生命,我鼓勵你今晚在接待處那裡做一些超越常人的事,是所謂的網絡.就是不只去認識新的人還要擴展你自己, 你的影響力.不只是找一個你不認識的人,你還要再找一個他也不認識的人,然後彼此介紹.這就是所謂的三角架關係. 了解了嗎? 建立能改變世界部落的人就是這麼做的.他們用連結不同部落的方式讓部落擴展到不同領域, 而不是光靠我自己,而我的追隨者比我更優秀.我把彼此不認識的人連接到比他們更棒的東西上.而到極致他們把自身的價值加上去. 但我們還沒有完成, 因為從「階段四」己經很棒我們要想如何進到「階段五」吧?我要用一個故事來做個結尾. 這故事是出自於一個叫蓋洛普的地方.你們已經知道那是做民調的對吧?在「階段四」. 我們很優秀. 誰不優秀呢?做民調公司到處都是.如果蓋洛普跟美國國家廣播公司同一天公佈民調人們會注意蓋洛普的民調. 這點我們了解.所以他們覺得無聊.他們想要改變世界. 所以某人問了個問題. ""我們如何能不只做亞洲人想法的民調或是美國人想法的,或是只是關心歐巴馬對上麥凱恩, 或大概那類的事, [問],這整個世界的想法是什麼?""他們找到一個辦法來做史無前例的世界民調.這些參與的人有前諾貝爾經濟學奬得主, 有閒著無聊的人.而且突然間他們抽出一些紙來開始試著解決, ""我們如何能發問卷到住在非洲撒哈拉以南地方的人?""我們如何取得那些無法接觸科技族群的意見?說我們不會的語言,還有我們不知道誰會講這些語言. 但是為了要完成這個偉大的任務,我們一定要能做到這些.結果, 他們克服萬難辦到了.他們公佈了破天荒第一次世界民調. 我想把這些想法留給你們.首先: 我們所有人都會形成部落.你們在這裡的這個部落. 希望你正在擴展你所在的所有部落.然而浮出台面上的問題是.你跟你的部落正在產生怎麼樣的衝擊?你在這裡正在聽一個接著一個的簡報,通常簡報代表一群人, 一個部落,有關於他們如何地改變了這個世界.如果你做到他們所談到的, 你傾聽在你部落裡的人實際溝通的方式.你不讓他們留在原地. 你推他們向前.你記得要談到五種文化階段.因為在我們周圍環繞著這五種人.我留給各位的一個問題是:你的部落將會改變世界嗎?謝謝各位(掌聲)"
