Talk	en	zh-tw
david_birch_identity_without_a_name	"So I thought I'd talk about identity. That's sort of an interesting enough topic to me. And the reason was, because when I was asked to do this, I'd just read, in one of the papers, I can't remember, something from someone at Facebook saying, well, ""we need to make everybody use their real names."" and then that's basically all the problems solved. And that's so wrong, that's such a fundamentally, reactionary view of identity, and it's going to get us into all sorts of trouble. And so what I thought I'd do is I'll explain four sort of problems about it, and then I'll suggest a solution, which hopefully you might find interesting. So just to frame the problem, what does authenticity mean? That's me, that's a camera phone picture of me looking at a painting. [What's the Problem?] That's a painting that was painted by a very famous forger, and because I'm not very good at presentations, I already can't remember the name that I wrote on my card. And he was incarcerated in, I think, Wakefield Prison for forging masterpieces by, I think, French Impressionists. And he's so good at it, that when he was in prison, everybody in prison, the governor and whatever, wanted him to paint masterpieces to put on the walls, because they were so good. And so that's a masterpiece, which is a fake of a masterpiece, and bonded into the canvas is a chip which identifies that as a real fake, if you see what I mean. (Laughter) So when we're talking about authenticity, it's a little more fractal than it appears and that's a good example to show it. I tried to pick four problems that will frame the issue properly. So the first problem, I thought, Chip and PIN, right? [Banks and legacies bringing down the system from within] [Offline solutions do not work online] I'm guessing everyone's got a chip and PIN card, right? So why is that a good example? That's the example of how legacy thinking about identity subverts the security of a well-constructed system. That chip and PIN card that's in your pocket has a little chip on it that cost millions of pounds to develop, is extremely secure, you can put scanning electron microscopes on it, you can try and grind it down, blah blah blah. Those chips have never been broken, whatever you read in the paper. And for a joke, we take that super-secure chip and we bond it to a trivially counterfeitable magnetic stripe and for very lazy criminals, we still emboss the card. So if you're a criminal in a hurry and you need to copy someone's card, you can just stick a piece of paper on it and rub a pencil over it just to sort of speed things up. And even more amusingly, and on my debit card too, we print the name and the SALT code and everything else on the front too. Why? There is no earthly reason why your name is printed on a chip and PIN card. And if you think about it, it's even more insidious and perverse than it seems at first. Because the only people that benefit from having the name on the card are criminals. You know what your name is, right? (Laughter) And when you go into a shop and buy something, it's a PIN, he doesn't care what the name is. The only place where you ever have to write your name on the back is in America at the moment. And whenever I go to America, and I have to pay with a mag stripe on the back of the card, I always sign it Carlos Tethers anyway, just as a security mechanism, because if a transaction ever gets disputed, and it comes back and it says Dave Birch, I know it must have been a criminal, because I would never sign it Dave Birch. (Laughter) So if you drop your card in the street, it means a criminal can pick it up and read it. They know the name, from the name they can find the address, and then they can go off and buy stuff online. Why do we put the name on the card? Because we think identity is something to do with names, and because we're rooted in the idea of the identity card, which obsesses us. And I know it crashed and burned a couple of years ago, but if you're someone in politics or the home office or whatever, and you think about identity, you can only think of identity in terms of cards with names on them. And that's very subversive in a modern world. So the second example I thought I'd use is chatrooms. [Chatrooms and Children] I'm very proud of that picture, that's my son playing in his band with his friends for the first-ever gig, I believe you call it, where he got paid. (Laughter) And I love that picture. I like the picture of him getting into medical school a lot better, (Laughter) I like that picture for the moment. Why do I use that picture? Because that was very interesting, watching that experience as an old person. So him and his friends, they get together, they booked a room, like a church hall, and they got all their friends who had bands, and they got them together, and they do it all on Facebook, and then they sell tickets, and the first band on the - I was going to say ""menu,"" that's probably the wrong word for it, isn't it? The first band on the list of bands that appears at some public music performance of some kind gets the sales from the first 20 tickets, then the next band gets the next 20, and so on. They were at the bottom of the menu, they were like fifth, I thought they had no chance. He actually got 20 quid. Fantastic, right? But my point is, that all worked perfectly, except on the web. So they're sitting on Facebook, and they're sending these messages and arranging things and they don't know who anybody is, right? That's the big problem we're trying to solve. If only they were using the real names, Then you wouldn't be worried about them on the Internet. And so when he says to me, ""Oh, I want to go to a chatroom to talk about guitars"" or something, I'm like, ""oh, well, I don't want you to go into a chatroom to talk about guitars, because they might not all be your friends, and some of the people that are in the chatroom might be perverts and teachers and vicars."" (Laughter) I mean, they generally are, when you look in the paper, right? So I want to know who all the people in the chatroom are. So okay, you can go in the chatroom, but only if everybody in the chatroom is using their real names, and they submit full copies of their police report. But of course, if anybody in the chatroom asked for his real name, I'd say no. You can't give them your real name. Because what happens if they turn out to be perverts, and teachers and whatever. So you have this odd sort of paradox where I'm happy for him to go into this space if I know who everybody else is, but I don't want anybody else to know who he is. And so you get this sort of logjam around identity where you want full disclosure from everybody else, but not from yourself. And there's no progress, we get stuck. And so the chatroom thing doesn't work properly, and it's a very bad way of thinking about identity. So on my RSS feed, I saw this thing about - I just said something bad about my RSS feed, didn't I? I should stop saying it like that. For some random reason, I can't imagine, something about cheerleaders turned up in my inbox. And I read this story about cheerleaders, and it's a fascinating story. This happened a couple of years ago in the U.S. There were some cheerleaders in a team at a high school in the U.S., and they said mean things about their cheerleading coach, as I'm sure kids do about all of their teachers all of the time, and somehow the cheerleading coach found out about this. She was very upset. And so she went to one of the girls, and said, ""you have to give me your Facebook password."" I read this all the time, where even at some universities and places of education, kids are forced to hand over their Facebook passwords. So you've got to give them your Facebook password. She was a kid! What she should have said is, ""my lawyer will be calling you first thing in the morning. It's an outrageous imposition on my 4th Amendment right to privacy, and you're going to be sued for all the money you've got."" That's what she should have said. But she's a kid, so she hands over the password. The teacher can't log into Facebook, because the school has blocked access to Facebook. So the teacher can't log into Facebook until she gets home. So the girl tells her friends, guess what happened? The teacher logged in, she knows. So the girls just all logged into Facebook on their phones, and deleted their profiles. And so when the teacher logged in, there was nothing there. My point is, those identities, they don't think about them the same way. Identity is, especially when you're a teenager, a fluid thing. You have lots of identities. And you can have an identity, you don't like it, because it's subverted in some way, or it's insecure, or it's inappropriate, you just delete it and get another one. The idea that you have an identity that's given to you by someone, the government or whatever, and you have to stick with that identity and use it in all places, that's absolutely wrong. Why would you want to really know who someone was on Facebook, unless you wanted to abuse them and harass them in some way? And it just doesn't work properly. And my fourth example is there are some cases where you really want to be - In case you're wondering, that's me at the G20 protest. I wasn't actually at the G20 protest, but I had a meeting at a bank on the day of the G20 protest, and I got an email from the bank saying please don't wear a suit, because it'll inflame the protesters. I look pretty good in a suit, frankly, so you can see why it would drive them into an anti-capitalist frenzy. (Laughter) So I thought, well, look. If I don't want to inflame the protesters, the obvious thing to do is go dressed as a protester. So I went dressed completely in black, you know, with a black balaclava, I had black gloves on, but I've taken them off to sign the visitor's book. (Laughter) I'm wearing black trousers, black boots, I'm dressed completely in black. I go into the bank at 10 o'clock, go, ""Hi, I'm Dave Birch, I've got a 3 o'clock with so and so there."" Sure. They sign me in. There's my visitor's badge. (Laughter) So this nonsense about you've got to have real names on Facebook and whatever, that gets you that kind of security. That gets you security theater, where there's no actual security, but people are sort of playing parts in a play about security. And as long as everybody learns their lines, everyone's happy. But it's not real security. Especially because I hate banks more than the G20 protesters do, because I work for them. I know that things are actually worse than these guys think. (Laughter) But suppose I worked next to somebody in a bank who was doing something. Suppose I was sitting next to a rogue trader, and I want to report it to the boss of the bank. So I log on to do a little bit of whistleblowing. I send a message, this guy's a rogue trader. That message is meaningless if you don't know that I'm a trader at the bank. If that message just comes from anybody, it has zero information value. There's no point in sending that message. But if I have to prove who I am, I'll never send that message. It's just like the nurse in the hospital reporting the drunk surgeon. That message will only happen if I'm anonymous. So the system has to have ways of providing anonymity there, otherwise we don't get where we want to get to. So four issues. So what are we going to do about it? Well, what we tend to do about it is we think about Orwell space. And we try to make electronic versions of the identity card that we got rid of in 1953. So we think if we had a card, call it a Facebook login, which proves who you are, and I make you carry it all the time, that solves the problem. And of course, for all those reasons I've just outlined, it doesn't, and it might, actually, make some problems worse. The more times you're forced to use your real identity, certainly in transactional terms, the more likely that identity is to get stolen and subverted. The goal is to stop people from using identity in transactions which don't need identity, which is actually almost all transactions. Almost all of the transactions you do are not, who are you? They're, are you allowed to drive the car, are you allowed in the building, are you over 18, etcetera, etcetera. So my suggestion-I, like James, think that there should be a resurgence of interest in R & D. I think this is a solvable problem. It's something we can do about. Naturally, in these circumstances, I turn to Doctor Who. Because in this, as in so many other walks of life, Doctor Who has already shown us the answer. So I should say, for some of our foreign visitors, Doctor Who is the greatest living scientist in England, (Laughter) and a beacon of truth and enlightenment to all of us. And this is Doctor Who with his psychic paper. Come on, you guys must have seen Doctor Who's psychic paper. You're not nerds if you say yes. Who's seen Doctor Who's psychic paper? Oh right, you were in the library the whole time studying I guess. Is that what you're going to tell us? Doctor Who's psychic paper is when you hold up the psychic paper, the person, in their brain, sees the thing that they need to see. So I want to show you a British passport, I hold up the psychic paper, you see a British passport. I want to get into a party, I hold up the psychic paper, I show you a party invitation. You see what you want to see. So what I'm saying is we need to make an electronic version of that, but with one tiny, tiny change, which is that it'll only show you the British passport if I've actually got one. It'll only show you the party invitation if I actually have one. It will only show you that I'm over 18 if I actually am over 18. But nothing else. So you're the bouncer at the pub, you need to know that I'm over 18, instead of showing you my driving license, which shows you I know how to drive, what my name is, my address, all these kind of things, I show you my psychic paper, and all it tells you is am I over 18 or not. Right. Is that just a pipe dream? Of course not, otherwise I wouldn't be here talking to you. So in order to build that and make it work, I'm only going to name these things, I'll not go into them, we need a plan, which is we're going to build this as an infrastructure for everybody to use, to solve all of these problems. We're going to make a utility, the utility has to be universal, you can use it everywhere, I'm just giving you little flashes of the technology as we go along. That's a Japanese ATM, the fingerprint template is stored inside the mobile phone. So when you want to draw money out, you put the mobile phone on the ATM, and touch your finger, your fingerprint goes through to the phone, the phone says yes, that's whoever, and the ATM then gives you some money. It has to be a utility that you can use everywhere. It has to be absolutely convenient, that's me going into the pub. All the device on the door of the pub is allowed is, is this person over 18 and not barred from the pub? And so the idea is, you touch your ID card to the door, and if I am allowed in, it shows my picture, if I'm not allowed in, it shows a red cross. It doesn't disclose any other information. It has to have no special gadgets. That can only mean one thing, following on from Ross's statement, which I agree with completely. If it means no special gadgets, it has to run on a mobile phone. That's the only choice we have, we have to make it work on mobile phones. There are 6.6 billion mobile phone subscriptions. My favorite statistic of all time, only 4 billion toothbrushes in the world. That means something, I don't know what. (Laughter) I rely on our futurologists to tell me. It has to be a utility which is extensible. So it has to be something that anybody could build on. Anybody should be able to use this infrastructure, you don't need permissions, licenses, whatever, anyone should be able to write some code to do this. You know what symmetry is, so you don't need a picture of it. This is how we're going to do it. We're going to do it using phones, and we're going to do it using mobile proximity. I'm going to suggest to you the technology to implement Doctor Who's psychic paper is already here, and if any of you have got one of the new Barclay's debit cards with the contactless interface on it, you've already got that technology. If you've ever been up to the big city, and used an Oyster card at all, does that ring any bells to anybody? The technology already exists. The first phones that have the technology built in, the Google Nexus, the S2, the Samsung Wifi 7.9, the first phones that have the technology built into them are already in the shops. So the idea that the gas man can turn up at my mom's door and he can show my mom his phone, and she can tap it with her phone, and it will come up with green if he really is from British Gas and allowed in, and it'll come up with red if he isn't, end of story. We have the technology to do that. And what's more, although some of those things sounded a bit counter-intuitive, like proving I'm over 18 without proving who I am, the cryptography to do that not only exists, it's extremely well-known and well-understood. Digital signatures, the blinding of public key certificates, these technologies have been around for a while, we've just had no way of packaging them up. So the technology already exists. We know it works, There are a few examples of the technology being used in experimental places. That's London Fashion Week, where we built a system with O2, that's for the Wireless Festival in Hyde Park, you can see the persons walking in with their VIP band, it's just being checked by the Nokia phone that's reading the band. I'm only putting those up to show you these things are prosaic, this stuff works in these environments. They don't need to be special. So finally, I know that you can do this, because if you saw the episode of Doctor Who, the Easter special of Doctor Who, where he went to Mars in a bus, I should say again for our foreign students, that doesn't happen every episode. This was a very special case. So in the episode where he goes to Mars in a London bus, I can't show you the clip, due to the outrageous restrictions of Queen Anne-style copyright by the BBC, but in the episode where he goes to Mars in a London bus, Doctor Who is clearly shown getting on to the bus with the Oyster card reader using his psychic paper. Which proves that psychic paper has an MSE interface. Thank you very much."	"我來談談身份這回事。對我來說，這算是個 相當有趣的話題。原因就在於，當我被要求 談論“身份”這件事時，我就會讀某篇文章， 我不記得具體哪篇，是某篇臉書好友分享的，文章說：「我們需要讓每個人 都用他們的真名。」然後基本上所有問題就會迎刃而解。這真是大錯特錯。這種對個人資料的傳統看法，會讓我們陷入各種各樣的困境。所以我想，我會解釋這種觀念的四大問題，然後我會提出一個解決辦法，希望你們會認為這個辦法有趣。 我們來設定一下問題，真實性意味著什麼？那是我，是一張用手機拍攝的照片，我正看著一幅繪畫。「問題出在哪兒？」那幅圖由一位知名偽造家繪製而成，由於我不太擅長演講，我也不記得我寫在卡片上的 那位畫家的名字了。他被囚禁于威克菲爾德監獄中，罪名就是偽造了法國 印象派畫家的傑出作品。他對此相當擅長，當他入獄時，監獄裡的每個人，包括省長之類的人，都想讓他畫一幅大師的傑作， 以掛在自家牆頭，因為他畫得太好了。那是一幅大師的傑作，一幅傑出的贗品，陷在帆布上的一小塊芯片 用來標記這的確是一幅真正的贗品，如果你理解我的意思的話。（笑聲）因此當我們談論真實性的時候，它其實比表面來的更為複雜， 而那就是一個很好的例子。我嘗試用四個問題 來合適地描述這個議題。 那麼第一個問題，我認為，芯片和密碼，對嗎？「銀行與數據元系統 從內部令系統崩潰」「線下解決方法 無法在線上運作」我猜每個人都有帶芯片 和密碼卡，對嗎？那為什麼這是個好例子呢？這個例子展現了 銀行對身份的看法如何顛覆一個堅固系統的安全性。你口袋裡的那張帶芯片密碼卡上面有一塊小芯片， 它要花上幾百萬英鎊來研發，它相當的安全，你可以將掃描電子顯微鏡放上去，你可以試著磨損它，諸如此類。那些芯片從未被破壞， 不管報紙上怎麼說。講個笑話，我們將那超級安全的芯片安裝在一個可被稍許偽造的磁條上，而針對那些很懶的罪犯， 我們仍然在磁條上刻劃圖案。如果你是個很心急的罪犯， 而你需要複製他人的卡，你可以粘一張紙在這張芯片上， 用鉛筆在上面塗畫，以此加快犯罪進程。更搞笑的是，我自己的儲蓄卡也一樣，我們在卡的正面打印上 名字、SALT碼和其他信息。為什麼呢？沒有什麼理由可以解釋 為什麼你的名字被印在一張帶芯片的密碼卡上。如果你仔細想想，這件事比第一眼粗看 更為有問題和反常。因為唯一從卡上寫有的名字中獲益的， 正是罪犯。你知道自己叫什麼名字的，不是嗎？（笑聲）當你走進一家商店買些東西，密碼才是關鍵，人家才不在乎 你叫什麼名字呢。要求你必須在卡背面 寫上自己名字的地方目前只有美國。每次我去美國，我必須用卡背面的磁條付款，反正每次簽名我都寫 ""卡洛斯•特瑟""，就算是一個安全機制，因為如果轉賬有爭議，付款被退回， 上面的名字寫著戴維•波奇，我就知道那肯定是罪犯幹的，因為我從來不會簽自己的真名。（笑聲）所以如果你在街上弄丟了自己的卡，那就意味著罪犯能撿到你的卡， 並且讀取它上面的信息。他們知道持卡人的姓名，通過姓名他們能找到你的住址，然後他們就能開始 用你的卡在網上買東西。我們為什麼要把名字寫在卡上呢？因為我們認為身份和名字有關，因為我們對身份證 有著根深蒂固的想法，它糾纏著我們。我知道這類事情 在幾年前鬧得熱火朝天，但如果你是個從政 或是在家工作這類的人，你想想身份這回事，就只能以卡上的名字來定義它。這在現代社會是十分具有顛覆性的。 所以我想要舉的第二個例子就是聊天室。「聊天室與兒童」我對這張圖感到十分自豪， 那是我的兒子，他正和他朋友的樂隊 進行第一次現場表演，我相信你們管它叫現場表演， 他有收入進賬的。（笑聲）我愛死那張圖了。我更喜歡那張 他進醫學院的照片，（笑聲）不過我現在還是喜歡那張圖的。為什麼我要用那張圖呢？因為那非常有趣， 作為一個長者來看待這個經歷。他和他的朋友們，他們聚到一起，訂了個房間， 像是個教會禮堂，然後他們召集到了 所有玩樂隊的朋友們，把他們也聚到了一起，這一切都是在臉書上完成的，然後他們開始賣票， 而那上面的第一支樂隊——我剛才想要說”菜單“上面，不過這個詞可能不太合適，對吧？樂隊列表上寫著的第一支樂隊常在某些公眾音樂表演節目上出現，他們從前 20 張售票中獲利，然後下一支樂隊獲得 接下來 20 張售票收益，以此類推。我兒子的樂隊在這張列表的最尾端，大概是第五支樂隊， 我以為他們沒啥機會了。他竟然賺了 20 英鎊。 太棒了，不是嗎？我的重點是， 這一切都進行得很完美，除了在網路上的時候。他們當時正在臉書上，發送這些信息，為演出安排事情，而他們不認識上面的 任何一個人，不是嗎？那正是我們要是這解決的大問題。要是他們用真名就好了，那你就不會擔心那些網路上的人了。因此當他跟我說，「喔，我想去聊天室談談吉他」 這類的事情，我就會說，「噢，好吧， 我不想讓你去聊天室裡談論吉他，因為那些人 不全是你的朋友，而聊天室中的有些人可能會是變態、老師、或者牧師。」（笑聲）我的意思是，他們表面上看 基本上都是這樣的人，不是嗎？所以我想知道聊天室裡的 那些人都是誰。好吧，你可以去聊天室，除非聊天室裡所有人都用真名，並且他們要提交一份完整的案底。但是，當然啦，如果聊天室中 有人問起他的真名，我就會說不。 你不能告訴他們你的真名。因為萬一他們其實是變態怎麼辦呢，或是老師，隨便什麼啦。 所以就有了這麼一個奇怪的悖論，我會為他進入聊天室而感到高興的，但前提是我知道大家都是誰，可我又不想任何人知道 我兒子到底是誰。因此，圍繞著身份出現了一個僵局，你希望所有其他人都坦白，但你自己卻免於暴露。這樣無法取得任何進展， 我們陷入了困境。所以聊天室沒能合理地運作，而那也是對身份 一種非常糟糕的思考方式。 所以在我的簡訊訂閱單上， 我看到這件事情——我剛才說簡訊訂閱單 的壞話了，對嗎？我不該繼續那樣講話了。出於某些亂七八糟的原因， 我無法想像，一則關於啦啦隊的內容 出現在我的收件夾裡。我閱讀了這則關於啦啦隊的故事，這真是個精彩絕倫的故事。這個故事好幾年前在美國發生。一個美國高中的一支隊伍中 有一些啦啦隊員，她們對啦啦隊教練 說了些很刻薄的話，我確定小孩對他們 所有的老師都會這麼做，一直以來都是這樣，不知怎麼的，啦啦隊 教練發現了這回事。她感到非常憤怒。因此她去找了其中一個女孩，說：「你必須給我你的臉書密碼。」我老是讀到這種東西， 甚至是在某些大學，某些教育機構中，孩子們會被逼迫交出 他們的臉書密碼。那你就不得不給他們 你的臉書密碼了。她只是個孩子！她當時應該說的話是：「我的律師會打電話給你，明早頭一件事就來找你。這是令人無比氣憤的壓迫，侵犯了第四修正法中我的隱私權，而你將被起訴， 賠上你所有的錢！」那是她當時應該說的話。但她只是個孩子，於是她就交出了自己的密碼。那位老師無法登入她的臉書賬號，因為學校的網路禁止登入臉書。因此那個老師要等到回家 才能登入臉書。於是那個女孩告訴了她的朋友們，你猜怎麼了？她知道那個老師登入了臉書，於是所有的女孩都在她們的手機上 登入了臉書，並且刪除了她們自己的檔案。因此當那個老師登入時， 裡面空無一物。我要強調的是，那些身份， 他們不再以相同的方式思考身份了。 尤其當你是個青少年時， 身份是充滿流動性的。你擁有許多重身份。如果其中有個身份你不喜歡，因為它在某些方面被腐壞， 或是不安全、不得當，你就可以刪除它， 並且獲得一個新的身份。這種你的身份來自他人授予的觀念，不論是來自政府或是誰，你必須一直沿用那個身份 並且在所有場合使用它，這個觀念大錯特錯。你為什麼會想知道 臉書上某個人究竟是誰呢？除非你是想用某種方式 虐待或是騷擾他們？這運作方式根本不合理。我的第四個例子是，某些情況下，你真的很想成為——你可能在好奇這幅圖， 這是我在G20的抗議活動上。我並沒有真的參與G20抗議活動， 但我在一家銀行有個會議，就在G20抗議活動當天， 而我收到銀行的一封郵件，說請不要穿正裝出席， 因為那會激怒示威者。說實話，我穿正裝挺好看的，所以你就會明白，為什麼這會讓他們 陷入反對資本主義的狂熱中。（笑聲）所以我就想，你看，如果我不想激怒示威者的話，顯然我要做的事情就是穿得像示威者一樣。所以我一襲黑衫就出發了，帶著一頂巴拉克拉法帽，我還戴了黑手套，但在訪問者名單上簽名時 我把黑手套脫了。（笑聲）我穿了黑褲子，黑靴子，全身上下都是黑色。我10點鐘走進銀行，說道，「嗨，我是戴維•波奇，我3點鐘和某某人有個會議。」沒問題。他們就簽我進去了。這是我的訪客胸牌。（笑聲） 所以這些胡言亂語說，你必須在臉書 和其他社交網路上用真名，會給你帶來安全。那樣做會帶你進入一個安全大廳， 而那裡世界上毫無安全可言，但人們似乎在一出關於安全的戲中 扮演著各自的角色。只要每個人都記得他們的臺詞，每個人都會滿意。但那並非真正的安全。尤其因為我本人比G20抗議者們 更加討厭銀行，因為我就在銀行供職。我知道事情其實比這些人 想的還要糟糕。（笑聲）但假設一下，我在銀行工作時， 身邊的那位同事正在做某件事。假設我正坐在一個流氓交易員旁邊，我想把這個人報告給銀行老闆。所以我登上網路，打算告密。我發送了一條訊息， 這傢伙是個流氓交易員。這條消息毫無意義，如果你不知道我是 這家銀行的交易員的話。如果那條訊息只是來自不知名的某人，那麼它的信息價值為零。發送那條訊息毫無意義。但如果我必須證明自己是誰，我永遠不會發送那條訊息。這就像是醫院裡的護士 要告發一個喝醉了酒的手術醫生。只有當我匿名的情況下， 這條訊息才會被發送出去。所以體系必須擁有 能夠提供匿名的方式，否則我們無法達成自己的目的。 因此就有了四大問題。 那麼我們對此該怎麼辦呢？我們對此傾向於做的，是思考一下奧威爾空間。我們試著製作電子版本，以用於我們1953年銷燬的身份證。我們認為，如果我們當時有張卡，稱它為臉書登入卡，能用它證明你的身份，而我讓你隨身攜帶這張卡，那就能解決問題了。當然啦，出於我剛才 羅列出的種種原因，它並不能真的解決問題， 實際上，它可能會讓一些問題變得更糟。你越頻繁地被逼著 使用自己的真實身份，當然是在交易過程中，你的身份越有可能被偷竊和摧毀。解決問題的目標是 阻止人們不要使用自己的身份，當那些交易並不需要身份認證時，而那其實適用於幾乎所有交易。你所做出的幾乎所有交易，並不是在於，「你是誰？」而是在於，你能不能開那輛車，你是否被允許進入那幢大樓，你是否年滿 18 歲，諸如此類。所以我的建議是——正如詹姆斯一樣，我認為重拾研究與創新 我認為這是一個可以解決的問題。我們能夠對此做些什麼。自然而然，在那些情況下，我會向「神秘博士」求助，因為在這部劇中，正如在生活的各行各業中，神秘博士早已告訴過我們答案。因此我應該說，對於我們某些外國訪客而言，「神秘博士」是英格蘭 在世的科學家中最偉大的，（笑聲）是指明真相的燈塔， 是我們所有人的啟示。而這位就是神秘博士， 手握著他的特異功能紙。你們肯定見過神秘博士的 特異功能紙的嘛。不然你們怎麼證明你們是書呆子呢。誰見過神秘博士的特異功能紙？好吧，我猜你可能 一直都在圖書館裡學習。你是不是要這麼告訴我們？神秘博士的特異功能紙是當你舉起這張紙時，這個人，在他們的大腦中，會看到他們需要看見的東西。我想要給大家展示一張英國護照，我舉起這張特異功能紙，你就會看見一張英國護照。我想參加一個派對，我便舉起特異功能紙，然後就會出現一張派對邀請函。你會看到你想看到的東西。我要說的是，我們需要 把這個過程電子化，但有一個小小的變化，那就是它會為你提供英國護照，如果你的確有一張。它會為你提供派對邀請函，如果你的確有一份。它會展示我已年滿十八歲， 如果我的確已年滿十八歲。沒有其它資訊。你是這間酒吧的保安， 需要知道我是否年滿十八，我並不需要想你出示我的駕駛證，因為那樣就告訴你我會開車，還告訴了你我的姓名、住址 以及其他這類型細節，我向你展示我的特異功能紙，它告訴你的唯一信息就是 我是否已年滿十八歲。沒錯。 那樣的想法只是個白日夢嗎？當然不是啦，不然我不可能 站在這裡為你們演講。為了製造出這個東西， 並讓它能夠正常運作，我會告訴大家所需要的東西有哪些， 但我就不具體解釋了，我們需要一個計劃，也就是，我們要把這個東西造出來，作為基礎設施以供所有人使用，來解決這樣或那樣的問題。我們要製造出一種功用，這種功用必須是普遍的，你隨處都可以使用它，我會提供大家關於 這項技術的一些閃回，那是一台日本自動提款機，指紋模板安裝在移動電話內部。當你想要取出現金時，你將移動電話放在自動提款機上，然後觸碰你的指尖，你的指紋就會被移動電話獲取，然後電話會確認取款人身份，自動提款機就會給你些錢。它必須是一項 你可以隨處使用的功用。它必須相當便捷，那就是我走進酒吧的時候。酒吧大門的裝置所允許的是審核這個人是否年滿十八歲， 並沒有被禁止進入酒吧。所以這個想法就是， 你用身份證輕觸大門，如果我被允許入內， 它就是展示我的照片，如果我不被允許入內， 它就會顯示一道紅叉叉。它不會揭露其它任何信息。它必須沒有任何特殊配件。那就只意味著一件事，接著羅斯的聲明往下說，我完全同意其中的觀點，如果它意味著沒有特殊配件，那它就必須在手機上運行。那是我們擁有的唯一選擇，我須讓它能夠 在移動手機上運行。全球有 66 億份手機註冊業務。我一直以來最喜歡的數據就是，這世界上只有 40 億枝牙刷。這有一定的意義，我並不知道意義到底是什麼。（笑聲）我得指望未來學家告訴我。它必須是一項可延展的功用。因此它必須是任何人都能夠組建的一項功用。任何人都應該能夠使用這項基礎設施，你不需要許可或是執照之類的東西，任何人都應當能夠寫一些代碼， 來做到這一點。 你知道對稱性的含義，因此也就不需要看圖才能理解。所以我們要這樣做。我們要用手機來實現這個目標，而且我們要用移動感應來實現。我要向大家建議，用以實現神秘博士的特異功能紙所需要的科技早已被人類獲得，而如果你們當中任何人擁有巴克萊銀行新發行的借記卡，上面有非接觸界面，你已經獲得了那項科技。如果你曾去到過大城市，曾用過交通卡，這讓大家想起什麼了嗎？這項科技早已存在。第一批包含這項科技的手機，谷歌的 Nexus, S2 型號，三星的無線 7.9 型號，第一批包含這項科技的手機，早期在商店中出售。所以一個煤氣工人能出現在我媽媽家門口，他可以向我媽媽出示他的手機，然後她可以用它輕觸自己的手機，手機就會出現綠色標識， 如果此人的確來自英國煤氣公司的話，他也就會被允許入內，而如果他不是來自煤氣公司， 則會顯示紅色，就這麼簡單。我們擁有達成這個目標所需的科技。不僅如此，儘管那其中有些事聽起來很反常，比如不需要證明我是誰 就能夠證明我年滿十八歲，能夠做到這一點的密碼學不僅存在，而且十分著名，並已被深刻理解。數位簽名，和公共密鑰加密，這些科技都已被應用一段時間了，我們只是沒有辦法 將它們全部結合起來。所以這項科技的確存在。我們知道它可以正常運作。有少數例子中，這項科技在實驗環境下被使用。那是倫敦時裝週，我們用 O2 搭建了一個系統，那是為海德公園舉辦的無線節研發的，你可以看到那些人帶著他們的 VIP 卡走進來。它正在被檢查，用那隻正在讀取卡的諾基亞手機。我把這些內容放上來， 是為了向大家展示，這些東西都是很平凡的，這些東西能夠在這些環境中運行。它們並不需要十分特別。 最後，我知道你們能夠做到這一點，因為如果你看過神秘博士的那一集，神秘博士的復活節特輯的話，他乘著公車去到火星，我要為在場的外國學生再解釋一遍，並不是每一集都是這樣的。這是個非常特殊的例子。在他搭著倫敦公車 去火星的那一集里，我無法為大家播放這個片段，由於安妮皇后一般 殘暴嚴格的版權限制，都怪BBC，但在他搭著倫敦公車 去火星的那一集里，我們可以很清楚的看到， 神秘博士上車時，他在交通卡讀取器上使用了特異功能紙。這就證明了特異功能紙擁有移動用戶設置接口。非常感謝大家。"
