Talk	en	zh-tw
david_pogue_says_simplicity_sells	"(Music: ""The Sound of Silence,"" Simon & Garfunkel) Hello voice mail, my old friend. (Laughter) I've called for tech support again. I ignored my boss's warning. I called on a Monday morning. Now it's evening, and my dinner first grew cold, and then grew mold. I'm still on hold. I'm listening to the sounds of silence. I don't think you understand. I think your phone lines are unmanned. I punched every touch tone I was told, but I've still spent 18 hours on hold. It's not enough your software crashed my Mac, and it constantly hangs and bombs — it erased my ROMs! Now the Mac makes the sounds of silence. In my dreams I fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys. Say your motorcycle crashes. Blood comes gushing from your gashes. With your fading strength, you call 9-1-1 and you pray for a trained MD. But you get me. (Laughter) And you listen to the sounds of silence. (Music) (Applause) Thank you. Good evening and welcome to: ""Spot the TED Presenter Who Used to Be a Broadway Accompanist."" (Laughter) When I was offered the Times column six years ago, the deal was like this: you'll be sent the coolest, hottest, slickest new gadgets. Every week, it'll arrive at your door. You get to try them out, play with them, evaluate them until the novelty wears out, before you have to send them back, and you'll get paid for it. You can think about it, if you want. So, I've always been a technology nut, and I absolutely love it. The job, though, came with one small downside, and that is, they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column. And what I've noticed is — first of all, you get an incredible amount of email. If you ever are feeling lonely, get a New York Times column, because you will get hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of emails. And the email I'm getting a lot today is about frustration. People are feeling like things — Ok, I just had an alarm come up on my screen. Lucky you can't see it. People are feeling overwhelmed. They're feeling like it's too much technology, too fast. It may be good technology, but I feel like there's not enough of a support structure. There's not enough help. There's not enough thought put into the design of it to make it easy and enjoyable to use. One time I wrote a column about my efforts to reach Dell Technical Support, and within 12 hours, there were 700 messages from readers on the feedback boards on the Times website, from users saying, """"Me too, and here's my tale of woe."" I call it ""software rage."" And man, let me tell you, whoever figures out how to make money off of this frustration will — Oh, how did that get up there? Just kidding. (Laughter) Ok, so why is the problem accelerating? And part of the problem is, ironically, because the industry has put so much thought into making things easier to use. I'll show you what I mean. This is what the computer interface used to look like, DOS. Over the years, it's gotten easier to use. This is the original Mac operating system. Reagan was President. Madonna was still a brunette. And the entire operating system — this is the good part — the entire operating system fit in 211 k. You couldn't put the Mac OS X logo in 211 k! (Laughter) So the irony is, that as these things became easier to use, a less technical, broader audience was coming into contact with this equipment for the first time. I once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the Apple call center for a day. The guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to. And the calls that — you know how they say, ""Your call may be recorded for quality assurance?"" Uh-uh. Your call may be recorded so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories and pass them around on a CD. (Laughter) Which they do. (Laughter) And I have a copy. (Laughter) It's in your gift bag. No, no. With your voices on it! So, some of the stories are just so classic, and yet so understandable. A woman called Apple to complain that her mouse was squeaking. Making a squeaking noise. And the technician said, ""Well, ma'am, what do you mean your mouse is squeaking?"" She says, ""All I can tell you is that it squeaks louder, the faster I move it across the screen."" (Laughter) And the technician's like, ""Ma'am, you've got the mouse up against the screen?"" She goes, ""Well, the message said, 'Click here to continue.'"" (Laughter) Well, if you like that one — how much time have we got? Another one, a guy called — this is absolutely true — his computer had crashed, and he told the technician he couldn't restart it, no matter how many times he typed ""11."" And the technician said, ""What? Why are you typing 11?"" He said, ""The message says, 'Error Type 11.'"" (Laughter) So, we must admit that some of the blame falls squarely at the feet of the users. But why is the technical overload crisis, the complexity crisis, accelerating now? In the hardware world, it's because we the consumers want everything to be smaller, smaller, smaller. So the gadgets are getting tinier and tinier, but our fingers are essentially staying the same size. So it gets to be more and more of a challenge. Software is subject to another primal force: the mandate to release more and more versions. When you buy a piece of software, it's not like buying a vase or a candy bar, where you own it. It's more like joining a club, where you pay dues every year, and every year, they say, ""We've added more features, and we'll sell it to you for $99."" I know one guy who's spent $4,000 just on Photoshop over the years. And software companies make 35 percent of their revenue from just these software upgrades. I call it the Software Upgrade Paradox — which is that if you improve a piece of software enough times, you eventually ruin it. I mean, Microsoft Word was last just a word processor in, you know, the Eisenhower administration. (Laughter) But what's the alternative? Microsoft actually did this experiment. They said, ""Well, wait a minute. Everyone complains that we're adding so many features. Let's create a word processor that's just a word processor: Simple, pure; does not do web pages, is not a database."" And it came out, and it was called Microsoft Write. And none of you are nodding in acknowledgment, because it died. It tanked. No one ever bought it. I call this the Sport Utility Principle. People like to surround themselves with unnecessary power, right? They don't need the database and the website, but they're like, ""Well, I'll upgrade, because, I might, you know, I might need that someday."" So the problem is: as you add more features, where are they going to go? Where are you going to stick them? You only have so many design tools. You can do buttons, you can do sliders, pop-up menus, sub-menus. But if you're not careful about how you choose, you wind up with this. (Laughter) This is an un-retouched — this is not a joke — un-retouched photo of Microsoft Word, the copy that you have, with all the toolbars open. You've obviously never opened all the toolbars, but all you have to type in is this little, teeny window down here. (Laughter) And we've arrived at the age of interface matrices, where there are so many features and options, you have to do two dimensions, you know: a vertical and a horizontal. You guys all complain about how Microsoft Word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically. The off switch is in there somewhere. I'm telling you — it's there. Part of the art of designing a simple, good interface, is knowing when to use which one of these features. So, here is the log-off dialogue box for Windows 2000. There are only four choices, so why are they in a pop-up menu? It's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices. They could have put them all out in view. Here's Apple's take on the exact same dialogue box. (Applause) Thank you — yes, I designed the dialogue box. No, no. Already, we can see that Apple and Microsoft have a severely divergent approach to software design. Microsoft's approach to simplicity tends to be: let's break it down; let's just make it more steps. There are these ""wizards"" everywhere. And you know, there's a new version of Windows coming out this fall. If they continue at this pace, there's absolutely no telling where they might wind up. [Welcome to the Type a Word Wizard] (Laughter) (Applause) ""Welcome to the Type a Word Wizard."" Ok, I'll bite. Let's click ""Next"" to continue. (Laughter) (Applause) From the drop-down menu, choose the first letter you want to type. Ok. (Laughter) So there is a limit that we don't want to cross. So what is the answer? How do you pack in all these features in a simple, intelligent way? I believe in consistency, when possible, real-world equivalents, trash can folder, when possible, label things, mostly. But I beg of the designers here to break all those rules if they violate the biggest rule of all, which is intelligence. Now what do I mean by that? I'm going to give you some examples where intelligence makes something not consistent, but it's better. If you are buying something on the web, you're supposed to put in your address, and you're supposed to choose what country you're from, ok? There are 200 countries in the world. We like to think of the Internet as a global village. I'm sorry; it's not one yet. It's mainly like, the United States, Europe, and Japan. So why is ""United States"" in the ""U""s? (Laughter) You have to scroll, like, seven screensful to get to it. Now, it would be inconsistent to put ""United States"" first, but it would be intelligent. This one's been touched on before, but why in God's name do you shut down a Windows PC by clicking a button called ""Start?"" (Laughter) Here's another pet one of mine: you have a printer. Most of the time, you want to print one copy of your document, in page order, on that printer. So why in God's name do you see this every time you print? It's like a 747 shuttle cockpit. (Laughter) And one of the buttons at the bottom, you'll notice, is not ""Print."" (Laughter) (Applause) Now, I'm not saying that Apple is the only company who has embraced the cult of simplicity. Palm is also, especially in the old days, wonderful about this. I actually got to speak to Palm when they were flying high in the '90s, and after the talk, I met one of the employees. He says, ""Nice talk."" And I said, ""Thank you. What do you do here?"" He said, ""I'm a tap counter."" I'm like, ""You're a what?"" He goes, ""Well Jeff Hawkins, the CEO, says, 'If any task on the Palm Pilot takes more than three taps of the stylus, it's too long, and it has to be redesigned.' So I'm the tap counter."" So, I'm going to show you an example of a company that does not have a tap counter. (Laughter) This is Microsoft Word. Ok, when you want to create a new blank document in Word — it could happen. (Laughter) You go up to the ""File"" menu and you choose ""New."" Now, what happens when you choose ""New?"" Do you get a new blank document? You do not. On the opposite side of the monitor, a task bar appears, and somewhere in those links — by the way, not at the top — somewhere in those links is a button that makes you a new document. Ok, so that is a company not counting taps. You know, I don't want to just stand here and make fun of Microsoft ... Yes, I do. (Laughter) (Applause) The Bill Gates song! (Piano music) I've been a geek forever and I wrote the very first DOS. I put my software and IBM together; I got profit and they got the loss. (Laughter) I write the code that makes the whole world run. I'm getting royalties from everyone. Sometimes it's garbage, but the press is snowed. You buy the box; I'll sell the code. Every software company is doing Microsoft's R&D. You can't keep a good idea down these days. Even Windows is a hack. We're kind of based loosely on the Mac. So it's big, so it's slow. You've got nowhere to go. I'm not doing this for praise. I write the code that fits the world today. Big mediocrity in every way. We've entered planet domination mode. You'll have no choice; you'll buy my code. I am Bill Gates and I write the code. (Applause) But actually, I believe there are really two Microsofts. There's the old one, responsible for Windows and Office. They're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh, but they can't. They're locked in, because so many add-ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis. But there's also a new Microsoft, that's really doing good, simple interface designs. I liked the Media Center PC. I liked the Microsoft SPOT Watch. The Wireless Watch flopped miserably in the market, but it wasn't because it wasn't simply and beautifully designed. But let's put it this way: would you pay $10 a month to have a watch that has to be recharged every night like your cell phone, and stops working when you leave your area code? (Laughter) So, the signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse. So is there any hope? The screens are getting smaller, people are illuminating, putting manuals in the boxes, things are coming out at a faster pace. It's funny — when Steve Jobs came back to Apple in 1997, after 12 years away, it was the MacWorld Expo — he came to the stage in that black turtleneck and jeans, and he sort of did this. The crowd went wild, but I had just seen — I'm like, where have I seen this before? I had just seen the movie ""Evita"" — (Laughter) with Madonna, and I'm like, you know what? I've got to do one about Steve Jobs. (Music) It won't be easy. You'll think I'm strange. (Laughter) When I try to explain why I'm back, after telling the press Apple's future is black. You won't believe me. All that you see is a kid in his teens who started out in a garage with only a buddy named Woz. (Laughter) You try rhyming with garage! (Laughter) Don't cry for me, Cupertino. (Laughter) The truth is, I never left you. I know the ropes now, know what the tricks are. I made a fortune over at Pixar. (Laughter) Don't cry for me, Cupertino. I've still got the drive and vision. I still wear sandals in any weather. It's just that these days, they're Gucci leather. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. So Steve Jobs had always believed in simplicity and elegance and beauty. And the truth is, for years I was a little depressed, because Americans obviously did not value it, because the Mac had three percent market share, Windows had 95 percent market share — people did not think it was worth putting a price on it. So I was a little depressed. And then I heard Al Gore's talk, and I realized I didn't know the meaning of depressed. (Laughter) But it turns out I was wrong, right? Because the iPod came out, and it violated every bit of common wisdom. Other products cost less; other products had more features, they had voice recorders and FM transmitters. The other products were backed by Microsoft, with an open standard, not Apple's propriety standard. But the iPod won — this is the one they wanted. The lesson was: simplicity sells. And there are signs that the industry is getting the message. This is a little company that's done very well with simplicity and elegance. The Sonos thing — it's catching on. I've got just a couple examples. Physically, a really cool, elegant thinking coming along lately. When you have a digital camera, how do you get the pictures back to your computer? Well, you either haul around a USB cable, or you buy a card reader and haul that around. Either one, you're going to lose. What I do is, I take out the memory card, and I fold it in half, revealing USB contacts. I just stick it in the computer, offload the pictures, put it right back in the camera. I never have to lose anything. Here's another example. Chris, you're the source of all power. Will you be my power plug? Chris Anderson: Oh yeah. DP: Hold that and don't let go. You might've seen this, this is Apple's new laptop. This the power cord. It hooks on like this. And I'm sure every one of you has done this at some point in your lives, or one of your children. You walk along — and I'm about to pull this onto the floor. I don't care. It's a loaner. Here we go. Whoa! It's magnetic — it doesn't pull the laptop onto the floor. (Applause) In my very last example — I do a lot of my work using speech recognition software. And I'll just — you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous. Speech recognition software is really great for doing emails very quickly; period. Like, I get hundreds of them a day; period. And it's not just what I dictate that it writes down; period. I also use this feature called voice macros; period. Correct ""dissuade."" Not ""just."" Ok, this is not an ideal situation, because it's getting the echo from the hall and stuff. The point is, I can respond to people very quickly by saying a short word, and having it write out a much longer thing. So if somebody sends me a fan letter, I'll say, ""Thanks for that."" [Thank you so much for taking the time to write ...] (Laughter) (Applause) And conversely, if somebody sends me hate mail — which happens daily — I say, ""Piss off."" (Laughter) [I admire your frankness ...] (Laughter) (Applause) So that's my dirty little secret. Don't tell anyone. (Laughter) So the point is — this is a really interesting story. This is version eight of this software, and do you know what they put in version eight? No new features. It's never happened before in software! The company put no new features. They just said, ""We'll make this software work right."" Right? Because for years, people had bought this software, tried it out — 95 percent accuracy was all they got, which means one in 20 words is wrong — and they'd put it in their drawer. And the company got sick of that, so they said, ""This version, we're not going to do anything, but make sure it's darned accurate."" And so that's what they did. This cult of doing things right is starting to spread. So, my final advice for those of you who are consumers of this technology: remember, if it doesn't work, it's not necessarily you, ok? It could be the design of the thing you're using. Be aware in life of good design and bad design. And if you're among the people who create this stuff: Easy is hard. Pre-sweat the details for your audience. Count the taps. Remember, the hard part is not deciding what features to add, it's deciding what to leave out. And best of all, your motivation is: simplicity sells. CA: Bravo. DP: Thank you very much. CA: Hear, hear! (Applause)"	哈囉，語音信箱，我的老朋友，(笑聲)我又打來要求技術支援了，不管老闆怎麼警告我，我還是在週一早上打了這通電話，現在已經是傍晚了，我的晚餐不只變涼了，還發霉了，我還被掛在線上，只能聽著那無聲的聲音。我想你們並不瞭解，我覺得你們的電話根本就沒人在聽，我照著指示按下了所有的按鍵，但我還是被掛在線上18個小時。你們的軟體不只毁了我的麥金塔，讓它當機，還刪除了我的記憶體！現在麥金塔只能發出無聲的聲音了！我幻想著要對你們進行報復，像是撞壞你們的摩托車，然後你們的血噴灑出來，在你們奄奄一息的時候，打電話叫救護車和醫生來，但你們看到的卻是我！(笑聲)你們只能聽到無聲的聲音！(掌聲) 謝謝！晚安，歡迎這位「曾經擔任過百老匯伴奏的TED演講者」...(笑聲)好，在我六年前接下紐約時報專欄作家的工作時，那時他們告訴我：你會收到最酷、最炫、最熱門的新玩意兒，每個星期都會送到你家，你得試試、玩玩、好好看看這些玩意兒，然後在你玩膩之前把他們送回去，這樣就有薪水可領了。你考慮看看。我一直都對科技很著迷，我超愛科技的，但這個工作有一個小缺點，他們會把我的電子郵件地址印在我的專欄最下方！然後我看到...一開始我就收到一大堆的郵件！ 如果你覺得很孤獨的話，應徵這份工作就對了，你會收到成千上萬的電子郵件，而其中大家談的最多的，就是挫折。大家都感覺...噢，我的螢幕出現了一個警告訊息，還好你們看不到。大家都覺得被排山倒海而來的科技淹沒了，有太多發展太快的科技了，他們或許對我們的生活有幫助，但我覺得這些科技背後的支援卻不完備，沒有充份的說明，在設計這些科技的時候，也沒有週密的思考，好讓這些東西更好用、更容易使用。有一次，我在專欄裡寫了我向戴爾(Dell)電腦求助的經驗，結果在12個小時之內，就有700多封讀者的回信出現在紐約時報的讀者信箱，有的人說「我也有同樣經驗...」，有人則說「心有戚戚焉」，我把這種反應稱為「軟體憤怒狂潮」。各位，我認為只要有人能想出如何靠這些憤怒的情緒發財—噢，怎麼跑出這個畫面？開玩笑的。(笑聲) 好，為什麼這個問題愈來愈嚴重？很諷刺的是，有部分原因是因為科技界人士老是想著要讓他們的東西更容易使用，我來說明一下這是什麼意思。這是我們以前所使用的電腦界面—DOS，經過這些年之後，變得比較好用一些了。這是原始的麥金塔作業系統，那時的總統是雷根，瑪丹娜的頭髮也還是棕色的，而這整個作業系統—這是它的優點—這整個作業系統只有211K的大小，現在就連麥金塔OS 10的標誌都不只211K這麼大！(笑聲)諷刺的地方就在這裡，當這些東西愈來愈容易使用時，就吸引了更多、更不懂科技的消費者，想要來試用這些新玩意兒。 有一次，我獲得了坐在蘋果電腦客服中心一天的尊榮禮遇，有一個人拿了耳機讓我聽他們的對話，那些對話內容你早就聽過了：「為保障服務品質，我們將為您的來電進行錄音。」嗯嗯，你的電話會被錄下來哦...然後他們會選出最好笑、最白痴的客戶來電，收錄在一張CD上，傳給大家聽！(笑聲)他們真的這樣搞啊...(笑聲)我也有那張CD哦...(笑聲)就放在你們的贈品袋裡...不不不，裡面就有你的聲音！有些來電真是太經典了，但也很容易理解。有位女士打電話到蘋果電腦，抱怨她的滑鼠吱吱亂叫，就是發出吱吱的怪聲。客服人員就問：「小姐，請問你說說滑鼠吱吱亂叫是什麼意思？」她說：「我每次把滑鼠放在螢幕上滑動得愈快，它就叫得愈大聲！」(笑聲)客服人員說：「小姐，你是把滑鼠放在螢幕上嗎？」她回說：「嗯，螢幕上就寫說『按這裡繼續』啊...」(笑聲) 噢，如果你們覺得這很好笑，我們還有多少時間？再講一個吧...有位男士打進來了，這是真的故事哦！他的電腦當機了，然後他告訴客服人員，無論他輸入多少次「11」，都無法重新啟動電腦。客服人員問：「什麼？為什麼要輸入11？」他說：「螢幕就寫『錯誤按11(Error Type 11)』啊...」(其實是錯誤訊息碼11)(笑聲)我們得承認有些問題是消費者自己造成的，但是為什麼這種科技泛濫的問題、 這種日趨複雜的問題，現在卻愈演愈烈？在硬體方面，由於消費者不斷要求業者把東西做得更小，所以這些新玩意兒就變得愈來愈小，但我們的手指也還是原來的大小啊！對我們來說卻變得愈來愈難使用！軟體方面則承受另外一種壓力：要求開發更為先進的版本。當你買了某個軟體時，那並不像是買個花瓶、或是買支棒棒糖那樣，你可以擁有那個東西，軟體比較像是去參加某個俱樂部，每年都得付會費，每一年軟體業者都會說：「我們又加入了更多新的功能，只賣99元哦！」我認識一個人，這幾年光是在Photoshop上就花了4,000美金！而軟體公司光是靠為軟體升級，就可以創造35%的營收。我把這個稱為「軟體升級謬論」—如果你一直不斷改良某個軟體，那就不是原來那個軟體了啊！ 我們看看，微軟的Word在艾森豪年代只不過是個文書處理軟體而已，(笑聲)但接下來呢？微軟真的嚐試過改良這個軟體，但他們說：「等一下，大家都在抱怨我們加入太多功能了，我們是不是應該發展一套只有文書處理功能的文書處理軟體？簡單、單純、不用連結網路、也不具備資料庫功能？」結果他們真的推出了這套軟體，叫做微軟Write，我看你們沒有人點頭，應該沒人知道這個軟體吧？因為它停產了！沒人買這個軟體！我把這稱為「運動器材原理」，大家都喜歡買些有的沒的，不是嗎？沒人需要資料庫和網路連結，但是大家都說：「嗯，我會升級啊...或許有一天我會用到這個功能啊！」問題是，你加了這麼多功能，要放在哪裡？你要把這些功能放在哪個角落？你只有這些功具列而已，只有按鈕、捲軸、對話視窗、工具視窗而已，一不小心選到不該選的，就會變成這樣：(笑聲) 這不是開玩笑的，這是原版、沒有修片的Word照片，把所有工具列都打開就是這個樣子。顯然大家都沒有把全部的工具列打開過，能夠輸入文字的空間就只剩下面這一點了...(笑聲)我們已經進入了界面矩陣時代，有這麼多功能和選項可供選擇，要在二維空間裡才能處理，就是垂直和水平空間。大家都在抱怨為什麼Word老是自動幫每一個項目都加上項目符目，還把連結自動加上底線，一定有什麼地方可以把這些功能關閉吧？我來告訴你，就在那兒！設計的藝術就是要掌握精簡原則、要有好的界面、而且要知道什麼時候該用什麼功能。這就是Windows 2000關閉功能的對話方塊。裡面只有四個選項，那幹嘛要另外跳出一個視窗來選啊？又不是說我們需要的其他功能已經擠滿了螢幕，讓我們選不到這些功能，就不能把這些選項放在明顯的地方嗎？ 這是蘋果電腦所設計的相同功能的對話方塊。(掌聲)謝謝！對，是我設計的...噢，不，不是。我們從這裡就可以看出蘋果和微軟在軟體設計上的重大分歧，微軟對於簡化的定義是：把步驟拆得更細，多走幾個步驟，到處都有這種小精靈幫手。大家都知道今年(2006)秋天微軟就要推出新的視窗版本了，如果他們堅持這種步調，天知道最後他們會變成怎樣。(掌聲)歡迎使用「輸入一個字」精靈，好，先按「下一步」，(掌聲)在下拉式選單裡，選擇您所要輸入的字母。(笑聲)這是我們不願意跨越的障礙，我們該怎麼辦？為什麼不把這些功能全都以簡單、聰明好用的方式包裝起來？我相信軟體設計需要一致性，我也相信軟體設計需要模擬真實世界，像是要有資源回收筒、標籤等等，但我拜託在座的設計師，如果你們設計的軟體違背了「聰明好用」這個最高指導原則，那就不應該再遵守那些規則。這是什麼意思？我來舉幾個例子說明有些時候「聰明好用」並不代表一致性，但確實比較好。 如果你在網路上買東西，你應該要輸入地址，要選擇你所在的國家，對吧？全世界有200個國家，我們總認為網路就像個地球村，很抱歉，還沒有那麼快，大部分使用網路的國家還是美國、歐洲和日本，但美國為什麼要用「U」開頭？(笑聲)你得一直往下轉，轉了大約七個螢幕才會找到美國，所以如果把美國排在第一位，雖然不一致， 但卻很好用。另外一個例子是以前就有人提過的，就是為什麼當你要關機的時候要先按「開始」？(笑聲)接下來是我最喜歡的例子：你有一台印表機，大部分時間，你都只想從那台印表機印出一份文件，按頁數排好，但究竟為什麼每次要印的時候都會看到這個？活像747的駕駛艙！(笑聲)而最下面的按鈕竟然不是「列印」！(笑聲)(掌聲)我並不是說蘋果電腦是唯一知道如何掌握「簡單」這個原則的公司，Palm也掌握得很好，尤其是在以前那個年代，掌握得非常好。我曾在90年代Palm正飛黃騰達的時候，在Palm發表演說，演說結束之後，有一個員工來找我，他說：「講得不錯！」我說：「謝謝！你是負責什麼工作？」他說：「我是點擊計數員。」我說：「什麼計數員？」他說：「嗯，我們的總裁傑夫．霍金斯說，『Palm Pilot上若有任何一個功能需要點擊超過三次以上的，那就太長了，就要重新設計。』所以我就是那個點擊計數員。」我們來看看沒有點擊計數員的公司，設計出來的產品是什麼樣子。 回到微軟Word，好，當你想要開啟一個空白的Word文件，絕對超過三次點擊！(笑聲)先到檔案功能表選取「開新檔案」，按下去後會出現什麼？你看到新的空白文件了嗎？並沒有。反而在螢幕的另一端，出現了一條工具列，而在那些連結中—不是在最上面哦—是在那些連結中，才有可以開啟空白文件的按鈕。好，這就是沒有點擊計數員的公司。我可不想一直站在這裡取笑微軟...觀眾：繼續講啊...大衛．普格：好啦！我是很想啦！(笑聲)(掌聲) 比爾．蓋茲之歌！我一直是個電腦狂，我寫出最原始的DOS，我把的自己的軟體和IBM放在一起，我賺了大錢，他們卻賠慘了！(笑聲)我寫的程式全世界的人都會使用，每個人都要向我繳交權利金。有時我的程式像垃圾，但媒體卻搞不清楚，你只要買電腦，就要買我的軟體。 每一家軟體公司都在幫微軟開發程式，這年頭好點子是不會被埋沒的。就連Windows也是抄來的，用麥金塔隨便改改就可以，所以Windows又大又慢，但你沒有別的選擇，我可不想白幹，我的程式適合普羅大眾，各方面都平庸無奇。我們已經統治這個星球，你們別無選擇，只能買我的程式。我就是比爾．蓋茲，是我寫了這些程式。(掌聲) 但說實在的，我覺得其實有二個微軟，舊的微軟負責Windows和Office，他們很想把這些東西全都丟掉，再開發新的東西，但他們做不到，因為有太多外加的程式鎖死他們，其他公司的軟體也和這個舊的1982年產品互相掛鈎。所以還有另外一個新的微軟，他們在做的是好的、簡單的界面設計。我喜歡Media Center PC，我也喜歡微軟的SPOT手錶，這支手錶在市場上慘遭滑鐵盧，但不是因為它的設計不夠美或不夠簡單，我這麼說好了：你願意為一支手錶每個月花10美金，然後每天晚上都要像手機那樣充電，然後只要你去到別的城市，這支手錶就不能用嗎？(笑聲) 種種跡象顯示，這種日趨複雜的設計趨勢只會愈來愈糟，沒有解決辦法嗎？螢幕變得愈來愈小，大家都很高興可以把各種手冊放進電腦裡，新科技正以愈來愈快的速度上市。這真的很好玩，當賈柏斯在離開蘋果電腦12年之後，於1997年重回蘋果電腦，那時剛好是MacWorld的展覽，他穿著黑色圓領衫和牛仔褲站在台上，做了這個動作，觀眾都瘋狂了，但我覺得我好像在哪裡見過這個動作？我之前剛看過「艾薇塔」這部電影...(笑聲)就是瑪丹娜主演的那部電影。我得為賈柏斯唱首歌。這個決定不容易，你一定認為我很奇怪，在我告訴媒體蘋果電腦前途一片灰暗之際，我竟然要重回蘋果電腦，你一定不相信我做了這個決定。你們只知道有個十幾歲的小孩，和他的朋友伍茲一起在車庫裡開創事業，(笑聲)你來試試怎麼和車庫押韻！(笑聲) 別為我哭泣，古波蒂諾(蘋果電腦總部所在地)，(笑聲)我真的從未離開過你。(笑聲)我知道遊戲規則了，我也知道祕訣是什麼，我靠皮克斯（動畫公司）發了財，(笑聲)別為我哭泣，古波蒂諾，我還有動力，也有夢想，不管什麼天氣，我都還是穿著涼鞋，只不過現在換成了Gucci的皮革。(笑聲)(掌聲) 謝謝！賈柏斯始終堅持簡單、高雅、和優美的設計。但是這幾年下來，我卻覺得很沮喪，因為美國人根本不懂得欣賞這種美，因為麥金塔的市佔率只有3%，而windows卻有95%的市佔率，大家根本不認為這種美感值得花錢去買。所以我有點沮喪，但我聽了高爾(前美國副總統)的演講後，我才發現我根本不瞭解沮喪是什麼意思。(笑聲)但我發現我錯了！因為iPod上市了！iPod違反了每一種軟體設計規則。別人的產品比較便宜、也有比較多的功能，還可以錄音，又有FM發話器，他們都用微軟開放的軟體架構，而不像蘋果限定在自己的架構裡。但是iPod成功了！這就是消費者要的東西！這件事告訴我們：簡單就好賣。跡象顯示科技業者已經漸漸瞭解這個趨勢，有一家小公司就做得很好，既簡化又高雅，就是Sonos，它正在努力趕上這波浪潮。 還有很多這一類的例子，最近就有一個很酷、又高雅的點子出現了。如果你手上有一台數位相機，要怎麼把相片傳到電腦上？你可以拉一條USB傳輸線，也可以用讀卡機來傳輸，不管怎樣，都很複雜。我的方法是，把記憶卡拿出來，對折，露出USB的接點，插在電腦上，下載相片，再把記憶卡放回照相機，就這麼簡單！還有另一個例子，克里斯，你來演電源好嗎？假裝你是個插座？ 克里斯：噢，好啊。 大衛：抓好不要放掉，你們可能看過這台電腦，這是蘋果的新型筆記型電腦，這是電源線，就這樣連在電腦上。我相信各位以前一定都有過這種經驗，或是你的小孩曾經做過，就是這樣走過去，拉扯電線然後把電腦摔在地上。沒關係，反正這台是借來的，來吧！哇！那是磁性插頭，根本不會把電腦拉扯摔到地上！(掌聲) 再舉最後一個例子。我工作時經常使用語音聽寫軟體，我要請你們稍微安靜一點，因為這個軟體會緊張。好，語音聽寫軟體可以幫助我們快速地撰寫電子郵件，句號。比如說，我每天會收到上百封的電子郵件，句號。這個軟體不只會幫我把說出來的語句書寫下來，句號。還有一個稱為「語音作家」的功能，句號。把「dissuade」改成「Not just」。嗯，這裡不太適合操作這個軟體，因為大廳裡會產生回音。重點是，我可以只簡單說幾句話，它就會幫我寫成一大篇文字回覆給某人。如果有某個粉絲寄信給我，我會說：「多謝了！」(笑聲)(掌聲)反過來說，如果有人寄封怒罵的信給我，這可是常有的事，我就會說：「滾蛋！」(笑聲)(掌聲)這就是我見不得人的小祕密，可別告訴其他人哦！(笑聲) 這真的很有趣，這是這個軟體的第八個版本，你知道裡面放了什麼嗎？完全沒有新功能！這在軟體界可算是前所未有的舉動！他們沒有新增任何功能，他們只說：「我們希望這個軟體能運作得更好。」這就對了！因為這麼多年以來，大家買了這個軟體，用過之後，發現有95%的準確率，也就是說，在20個字裡會有一個錯字，於是大家都收起來不用，那家公司再也受不了這種情況，於是他們決定：「我們不會在這個版本裡新增任何功能，但我們保證會做到絕對正確。」 他們就是這樣做，這股「把事情做對」的風潮已經蔓延開來了，所以最後我想給消費者一個建議：要記住，如果東西不好用，不一定是你的問題，好嗎？有可能是設計出了問題，要知道有好的設計，也有不好的設計。而如果你是負責設計的人，要做到「簡單」並不容易，事先為你的消費者多想一想，算算點擊數量，要記住，最難的不是去新增什麼功能，而是去刪掉某些功能。最重要的是要記住：簡單就好賣。 克里斯：太棒了！ 大衛：謝謝大家！ 克里斯：太棒了！(掌聲)
