Talk	en	zh-tw
david_hoffman_on_losing_everything	"I had a fire nine days ago. My archive: 175 films, my 16-millimeter negative, all my books, my dad's books, my photographs. I'd collected — I was a collector, major, big-time. It's gone. I just looked at it, and I didn't know what to do. I mean, this was — was I my things? I always live in the present — I love the present. I cherish the future. And I was taught some strange thing as a kid, like, you've got to make something good out of something bad. You've got to make something good out of something bad. This was bad! Man, I was — I cough. I was sick. That's my camera lens. The first one — the one I shot my Bob Dylan film with 35 years ago. That's my feature film. ""King, Murray"" won Cannes Film Festival 1970 — the only print I had. That's my papers. That was in minutes — 20 minutes. Epiphany hit me. Something hit me. ""You've got to make something good out of something bad,"" I started to say to my friends, neighbors, my sister. By the way, that's ""Sputnik."" I ran it last year. ""Sputnik"" was downtown, the negative. It wasn't touched. These are some pieces of things I used in my Sputnik feature film, which opens in New York in two weeks downtown. I called my sister. I called my neighbors. I said, ""Come dig."" That's me at my desk. That was a desk took 40-some years to build. You know — all the stuff. That's my daughter, Jean. She came. She's a nurse in San Francisco. ""Dig it up,"" I said. ""Pieces. I want pieces. Bits and pieces."" I came up with this idea: a life of bits and pieces, which I'm just starting to work on — my next project. That's my sister. She took care of pictures, because I was a big collector of snapshot photography that I believed said a lot. And those are some of the pictures that — something was good about the burnt pictures. I didn't know. I looked at that — I said, ""Wow, is that better than the —"" That's my proposal on Jimmy Doolittle. I made that movie for television. It's the only copy I had. Pieces of it. Idea about women. So I started to say, ""Hey, man, you are too much! You could cry about this."" I really didn't. I just instead said, ""I'm going to make something out of it, and maybe next year ... "" And I appreciate this moment to come up on this stage with so many people who've already given me so much solace, and just say to TEDsters: I'm proud of me. That I take something bad, I turn it, and I'm going to make something good out of this, all these pieces. That's Arthur Leipzig's original photograph I loved. I was a big record collector — the records didn't make it. Boy, I tell you, film burns. Film burns. I mean, this was 16-millimeter safety film. The negatives are gone. That's my father's letter to me, telling me to marry the woman I first married when I was 20. That's my daughter and me. She's still there. She's there this morning, actually. That's my house. My family's living in the Hilton Hotel in Scotts Valley. That's my wife, Heidi, who didn't take it as well as I did. My children, Davey and Henry. My son, Davey, in the hotel two nights ago. So, my message to you folks, from my three minutes, is that I appreciate the chance to share this with you. I will be back. I love being at TED. I came to live it, and I am living it. That's my view from my window outside of Santa Cruz, in Bonny Doon, just 35 miles from here. Thank you everybody. (Applause)"	"九天前我經歷了一場火災我的存檔175部電影 我的16釐米底片所有我的藏書以及我爸的藏書我所收藏的我是個收藏家 重要的 一流的通通都沒了我就只是看著一切發生我不知道要做什麼我是指 這個是我的東西嗎???我總是活在當下—我喜歡當下 我珍惜未來我小時候被教了一些奇怪的觀念像是：你必須從壞事中，創造出好的事情你必須從壞事之中，創造好的事情這真是壞事! 唉~ 我—我咳嗽 我生病了那是我的相機鏡頭 我的第一個鏡頭三十五年前我拍攝鮑伯迪倫的那個鏡頭這是我執導的電影King, Murray在1970年贏得坎城電影獎座我僅有的拷貝這是我的文件 就在短短幾分鐘之內 — 20分鐘靈光乍現，這念頭突然出現""你要從壞事中，創造出好的事情""我開始跟朋友、鄰居、姐姐說還有，這是""人造衛星"" 我去年做的人造衛星的底片放在市區，沒有被波及這些是一些我用在人造衛星影片中的東西電影二個禮拜內會在紐約上映在市區我打電話給我的姐姐、我的鄰居。我說：""過來一起挖吧!""那是我在書桌旁這張書桌花了四十幾年才作好的你知道的 所有的東西這是我的女兒 Jean她在舊金山當護士，也過來了 ""開挖吧!"" 我說：""不要放過任何碎片，""我要這些碎片""我想到一個點子：生命的浮光片羽這就是我正著手進行的下一個計畫這是我的姐姐。她在整理照片。因為我是個即興攝影的大收藏家我相信數量很多這些是部分的照片燒焦的照片有個好處我以前不知道的。我看著這張 —我說""哇 這樣好多了~""這是我關於Jimmy Doolittle的提案 我為電視台拍的影片這是我唯一擁有的版本 — 部分殘骸有關女人的創作 因此我開始說 "" 嘿~, 你太超過囉~""你可以哭喊,""我真的沒有...""我卻會說我要去完成某件事情，也許在明年同時，我感謝此時此刻能夠上台，遇到許多人給了我許多安慰而我只跟TED人說：我以我自己為榮。我碰上了壞事我扭轉它，並且我會從中創造出好事從這些碎片中。這是我喜愛的Arthur Leipzig原版照片我是個唱片大收藏家這唱片並未倖免於難。唉，我跟你說，底片燒了 底片燒了我是指 這是16厘米安全底片負片不見了 這是我爸寫的信，跟我說娶個老婆吧~我第一次的婚姻在我20歲的時候這是我女兒和我她還在這裡 事實上 她今天早上就在這裡這是我的房子我家人現在住在史考特谷的希爾頓飯店這是我的老婆 海蒂沒有像我一樣接受這一切我的小孩 戴維和亨利我的兒子戴維，攝於飯店，在兩天前的晚上 我要給諸位的訊息是：在我的三分鐘裡，我感謝有這個機會跟大家分。 我會回來的，我愛來TED這裡我來過我的生活，而我現在就在過我的生活這是在Bonny Doon從我的窗戶往外望Santa Cruz的景象離這裡35哩遠謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
