Talk	en	zh-tw
david_perry_on_videogames	"I grew up in Northern Ireland, right up in the very, very north end of it there, where it's absolutely freezing cold. This was me running around in the back garden mid-summer. (Laughter) I couldn't pick a career. In Ireland the obvious choice is the military, but to be honest it actually kind of sucks. (Laughter) My mother wanted me to be a dentist. But the problem was that people kept blowing everything up. So I actually went to school in Belfast, which was where all the action happened. And this was a pretty common sight. The school I went to was pretty boring. They forced us to learn things like Latin. The school teachers weren't having much fun, the sports were very dirty or very painful. So I cleverly chose rowing, which I got very good at. And I was actually rowing for my school here until this fateful day, and I flipped over right in front of the entire school. And that was the finishing post right there. (Laughter) So this was extremely embarrassing. But our school at that time got a grant from the government, and they got an incredible computer — the research machine 3DZ — and they left the programming manuals lying around. And so students like myself with nothing to do, we would learn how to program it. Also around this time, at home, this was the computer that people were buying. It was called the Sinclair ZX80. This was a 1K computer, and you'd buy your programs on cassette tape. Actually I'm just going to pause for one second, because I heard that there's a prerequisite to speak here at TED — you had to have a picture of yourself from the old days with big hair. So I brought a picture with big hair. (Laughter). I just want to get that out of the way. So after the Sinclair ZX80 came along the very cleverly named Sinclair ZX81. (Laughter) And — you see the picture at the bottom? There's a picture of a guy doing homework with his son. That's what they thought they had built it for. The reality is we got the programming manual and we started making games for it. We were programming in BASIC, which is a pretty awful language for games, so we ended up learning Assembly language so we could really take control of the hardware. This is the guy that invented it, Sir Clive Sinclair, and he's showing his machine. You had this same thing in America, it was called the Timex Sinclair1000. To play a game in those days you had to have an imagination to believe that you were really playing ""Battlestar Galactica."" The graphics were just horrible. You had to have an even better imagination to play this game, ""Death Rider."" But of course the scientists couldn't help themselves. They started making their own video games. This is one of my favorite ones here, where they have rabbit breeding, so males choose the lucky rabbit. It was around this time we went from 1K to 16K, which was quite the leap. And if you're wondering how much 16K is, this eBay logo here is 16K. And in that amount of memory someone programmed a full flight simulation program. And that's what it looked like. I spent ages flying this flight simulator, and I honestly believed I could fly airplanes by the end of it. Here's Clive Sinclair now launching his color computer. He's recognized as being the father of video games in Europe. He's a multi-millionaire, and I think that's why he's smiling in this photograph. So I went on for the next 20 years or so making a lot of different games. Some of the highlights were things like ""The Terminator,"" ""Aladdin,"" the ""Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles."" Because I was from the United Kingdom, they thought the word ninja was a little too mean for children, so they decided to call it hero instead. I personally preferred the Spanish version, which was ""Tortugas Ninja."" That was much better. (Laughter) Then the last game I did was based on trying to get the video game industry and Hollywood to actually work together on something — instead of licensing from each other, to actually work. Now, Chris did ask me to bring some statistics with me, so I've done that. The video game industry in 2005 became a 29 billion dollar business. It grows every year. Last year was the biggest year. By 2008, we're going to kick the butt of the music industry. By 2010, we're going to hit 42 billion. 43 percent of gamers are female. So there's a lot more female gamers than people are really aware. The average age of gamers? Well, obviously it's for children, right? Well, no, actually it's 30 years old. And interestingly, the people who buy the most games are 37. So 37 is our target audience. All video games are violent. Of course the newspapers love to beat on this. But 83 percent of games don't have any mature content whatsoever, so it's just not true. Online gaming statistics. I brought some stuff on ""World of Warcraft."" It's 5.5 million players. It makes about 80 million bucks a month in subscriptions. It costs 50 bucks just to install it on your computer, making the publisher about another 275 million. The game costs about 80 million dollars to make, so basically it pays for itself in about a month. A player in a game called ""Project Entropia"" actually bought his own island for 26,500 dollars. You have to remember that this is not a real island. He didn't actually buy anything, just some data. But he got great terms on it. This purchase included mining and hunting rights, ownership of all land on the island, and a castle with no furniture included. (Laughter) This market is now estimated at over 800 million dollars annually. And what's interesting about it is the market was actually created by the gamers themselves. They found clever ways to trade items and to sell their accounts to each other so that they could make money while they were playing their games. I dove onto eBay a couple of days ago just to see what was gong on, typed in World of Warcraft, got 6,000 items. I liked this one the best: a level 60 Warlock with lots of epics for 174,000 dollars. It's like that guy obviously had some pain while making it. So as far as popularity of games, what do you think these people are doing here? It turns out they're actually in Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles listening to the L.A. Philharmonic playing video game music. That's what the show looks like. You would expect it to be cheesy, but it's not. It's very, very epic and a very beautiful concert. And the people that went there absolutely loved it. What do you think these people are doing? They're actually bringing their computers so they can play games against each other. And this is happening in every city around the world. This is happening in your local cities too, you're probably just not aware of it. Now, Chris told me that you had a timeline video a few years ago here just to show how video game graphics have been improving. I wanted to update that video and give you a new look at it. But what I want you to do is to try to understand it. We're on this curve, and the graphics are getting so ridiculously better. And I'm going to show you up to maybe 2007. But I want you to try and think about what games could look like 10 years from now. So we're going to start that video. Video: Throughout human history people have played games. As man's intellect and technology have evolved so too have the games he plays. (Music) (Applause) David Perry: The thing again I want you to think about is, don't look at these graphics and think of that's the way it is. Think about that's where we are right now, and the curve that we're on means that this is going to continue to get better. This is an example of the kind of graphics you need to be able to draw if you wanted to get a job in the video game industry today. You need to be really an incredible artist. And once we get enough of those guys, we're going to want more fantasy artists that can create places we've never been to before, or characters that we've just never seen before. So the obvious thing for me to talk about today is graphics and audio. But if you were to go to a game developers conference, what they're all talking about is emotion, purpose, meaning, understanding and feeling. You'll hear about talks like, can a video game make you cry? And these are the kind of topics we really actually care about. I came across a student who's absolutely excellent at expressing himself, and this student agreed that he would not show his video to anybody until you here at TED had seen it. So I'd like to play this video. So this is a student's opinion on what his experience of games are. Video: I, like many of you, live somewhere between reality and video games. Some part of me — a true living, breathing person — has become programmed, electronic and virtual. The boundary of my brain that divides real from fantasy has finally begun to crumble. I'm a video game addict and this is my story. (Music) In the year of my birth the Nintendo Entertainment System also went into development. I played in the backyard, learned to read, and even ate some of my vegetables. Most of my childhood was spent playing with Legos. But as was the case for most of my generation, I spent a lot of time in front of the TV. Mr. Rogers, Walt Disney, Nick Junior, and roughly half a million commercials have undoubtedly left their mark on me. When my parents bought my sister and I our first Nintendo, whatever inherent addictive quality this early interactive electronic entertainment possessed quickly took hold of me. At some point something clicked. (Music) With the combination of simple, interactive stories and the warmth of the TV set, my simple 16-bit Nintendo became more than just an escape. It became an alternate existence, my virtual reality. (Music) I'm a video game addict, and it's not because of a certain number of hours I have spent playing, or nights I have gone without sleep to finish the next level. It is because I have had life-altering experiences in virtual space, and video games had begun to erode my own understanding of what is real and what is not. I'm addicted, because even though I know I'm losing my grip on reality, I still crave more. (Music) From an early age I learned to invest myself emotionally in what unfolded before me on screen. Today, after 20 years of watching TV geared to make me emotional, even a decent insurance commercial can bring tears to my eyes. I am just one of a new generation that is growing up. A generation who may experience much more meaning through video games than they will through the real world. Video games are nearing an evolutionary leap, a point where game worlds will look and feel just as real as the films we see in theatres, or the news we watch on TV. And while my sense of free will in these virtual worlds may still be limited, what I do learn applies to my real life. Play enough video games and eventually you will really believe you can snowboard, fly a plane, drive a nine-second quarter mile, or kill a man. I know I can. Unlike any pop culture phenomenon before it, video games actually allow us to become part of the machine. They allow us to sublimate into the culture of interactive, downloaded, streaming, HD reality. We are interacting with our entertainment. I have come to expect this level of interaction. Without it, the problems faced in the real world — poverty, war, disease and genocide — lack the levity they should. Their importance blends into the sensationalized drama of prime time TV. But the beauty of video games today lies not in the lifelike graphics, the vibrating joysticks or virtual surround sound. It lies in that these games are beginning to make me emotional. I have fought in wars, feared for my own survival, watched my cohorts die on beaches and woods that look and feel more real than any textbook or any news story. The people who create these games are smart. They know what makes me scared, excited, panicked, proud or sad. Then they use these emotions to dimensionalize the worlds they create. A well-designed video game will seamlessly weave the user into the fabric of the virtual experience. As one becomes more experienced the awareness of physical control melts away. I know what I want and I do it. No buttons to push, no triggers to pull, just me and the game. My fate and the fate of the world around me lie inside my hands. I know violent video games make my mother worry. What troubles me is not that video game violence is becoming more and more like real life violence, but that real life violence is starting to look more and more like a video game. (Music) These are all troubles outside of myself. I, however, have a problem very close to home. Something has happened to my brain. (Music) Perhaps there is a single part of our brain that holds all of our gut instincts, the things we know to do before we even think. While some of these instincts may be innate, most are learned, and all of them are hardwired into our brains. These instincts are essential for survival in both real and virtual worlds. Only in recent years has the technology behind video games allowed for a true overlap in stimuli. As gamers we are now living by the same laws of physics in the same cities and doing many of the same things we once did in real life, only virtually. Consider this — my real life car has about 25,000 miles on it. In all my driving games, I've driven a total of 31,459 miles. To some degree I've learned how to drive from the game. The sensory cues are very similar. It's a funny feeling when you have spent more time doing something on the TV than you have in real life. When I am driving down a road at sunset all I can think is, this is almost as beautiful as my games are. For my virtual worlds are perfect. More beautiful and rich than the real world around us. I'm not sure what the implications of my experience are, but the potential for using realistic video game stimuli in repetition on a vast number of loyal participants is frightening to me. Today I believe Big Brother would find much more success brainwashing the masses with video games rather than just simply TVs. Video games are fun, engaging, and leave your brain completely vulnerable to re-programming. But maybe brainwashing isn't always bad. Imagine a game that teaches us to respect each other, or helps us to understand the problems we're all facing in the real world. There is a potential to do good as well. It is critical, as these virtual worlds continue to mirror the real world we live in, that game developers realize that they have tremendous responsibilities before them. I'm not sure what the future of video games holds for our civilization. But as virtual and real world experiences increasingly overlap there is a greater and greater potential for other people to feel the same way I do. What I have only recently come to realize is that beyond the graphics, sound, game play and emotion it is the power to break down reality that is so fascinating and addictive to me. I know that I am losing my grip. Part of me is just waiting to let go. I know though, that no matter how amazing video games may become, or how flat the real world may seem to us, that we must stay aware of what our games are teaching us and how they leave us feeling when we finally do unplug. (Applause) DP: Wow. (Applause) I found that video very, very thought provoking, and that's why I wanted to bring it here for you guys to see. And what was interesting about it is the obvious choice for me to talk about was graphics and audio. But as you heard, Michael talked about all these other elements as well. Video games give an awful lot of other things too, and that's why people get so addicted. The most important one being fun. The name of this track is ""The Magic To Come."" Who is that going to come from? Is it going to come from the best directors in the world as we thought it probably would? I don't think so. I think it's going to come from the children who are growing up now that aren't stuck with all of the stuff that we remember from the past. They're going to do it their way, using the tools that we've created. The same with students or highly creative people, writers and people like that. As far as colleges go, there's about 350 colleges around the world teaching video game courses. That means there's literally thousands of new ideas. Some of the ideas are really dreadful and some of them are great. There's nothing worse than having to listen to someone try and pitch you a really bad video game idea. (Laughter) Chris Anderson: You're off, you're off. That's it. He's out of time. DP: I've just got a little tiny bit more if you'll indulge me. CA: Go ahead. I'm going to stay right here though. (Laughter) DP: This is just a cool shot, because this is students coming to school after class. The school is closed; they're coming back at midnight because they want to pitch their video game ideas. I'm sitting at the front of the class, and they're actually pitching their ideas. So it's hard to get students to come back to class, but it is possible. This is my daughter, her name's Emma, she's 17 months old. And I've been asking myself, what is Emma going to experience in the video game world? And as I've shown here, we have the audience. She's never going to know a world where you can't press a button and have millions of people ready to play. You know, we have the technology. She's never going to know a world where the graphics just aren't stunning and really immersive. And as the student video showed, we can impact and move. She's never going to know a world where video games aren't incredibly emotional and will probably make her cry. I just hope she likes video games. (Laughter) So, my closing thought. Games on the surface seem simple entertainment, but for those that like to look a little deeper, the new paradigm of video games could open entirely new frontiers to creative minds that like to think big. Where better to challenge those minds than here at TED? Thank you. Chris Anderson: David Perry. That was awesome."	我是在北愛爾蘭長大的，就在北愛爾蘭的極北端，因此氣候非常寒冷。這是我在仲夏時在後花園奔跑。 (笑聲) 我無法決定自己的生涯計畫。在愛爾蘭，最明顯的選擇就是從軍。但老實說從軍還蠻遜的。 (笑聲) 我老媽希望我當個牙醫。但問題是人們一天到晚都在打仗。所以我後來才去念貝爾法斯特的學校，沒想到那邊才是真正的戰場。這景象算是稀鬆平常。我念的學校相當無聊，強迫我們學拉丁文之類的東西。學校老師也相當無趣，運動項目不是很髒就是很苦。所以我聰明地選擇了划艇，而我也學得很好， 甚至還成為校隊。直到這悲劇性的一天，我在全校的面前翻船。終點就剛好在那。 (笑聲) 所以這實在是很丟人啊。但我的學校當時獲得了政府的一筆預算，擁有一部超級電腦-研究用電腦3DZ，而學校就把程式手冊擺在那讓你研究。所以像我這樣無所事事的學生們，便開始學習如何為電腦設計程式。同時在老家那邊，人們開始購買像這樣的電腦。電腦名稱為Sinclair ZX80，屬於1K型的電腦，你必須購買用來儲存程式的卡帶。 我要稍微暫停一下，因為我聽說如果你想在TED演講，你必須要留著一張你還留著蠢髮型的舊照片。所以我就帶了這張有著蠢髮型的舊照片。 (笑聲)。 只是想輕鬆一下。所以，Sinclair ZX80之後的新機種出現了，取名的人很聰明，稱它為Sinclair ZX81。 (笑聲) 而且呢，各位注意到下面的照片了嗎?照片裡面的傢伙正在陪兒子做作業。這好像是他們製造電腦原先的用意。但事實是我們利用程式手冊開始用這台電腦設計遊戲。我們用的程式語言為BASIC，是很差的遊戲設計語言。所以最後我們開始學習Assembly語言好完全駕馭硬體。這是這台電腦的發明人，辛克萊爵士，正在展示他的發明。美國也有一部相同的電腦，稱為Timex Sinclair1000。 在那個年頭，玩遊戲要有很高的想像力，才能說服自己你真的在玩「星際大爭霸」。遊戲畫面就是這麼糟。要玩這款遊戲的想像力還要更高-「死亡騎士」。但科學家總是管不住自己。他們開始製造自己的電玩遊戲。這款遊戲是我的最愛，叫做繁殖兔子。雄兔可選擇另外一隻幸運兔。 就是在這個時候，電腦等級已經從1K升級到16K了，是相當大的進步。如果你在想16K到底有多好，這個eBay的標誌就是16K。利用這樣的容量，有人已經設計出一套完整的飛行模擬程式。程式像是這樣子。這款飛行模擬器我玩了很久，玩到最後我真的相信我已經學會駕駛真實的飛機了。 這是辛可萊爵士跟他剛上市的彩色電腦。他在歐洲被認為是電玩遊戲之父。他是百萬富翁，這大概為何他笑的這麼開心的緣故。 所以，從那時20年以來，我一直不斷地開發不同的遊戲。比較重要的像是「魔鬼終結者」、「阿拉丁」、「少年烏龜英雄」等等。因為我是從英國來的，英國人認為忍者這個字感覺對小孩不太友善，所以替換成英雄。我個人則是喜歡西班牙的版本，Tortugas Ninja，聽起來很有氣勢。 (笑聲) 最後一部我設計的遊戲是電玩工業與好萊塢合作的成果，而非互相授權而已。 克里斯叫我準備一些數據資料，所以我照做了。2005年的電玩工業產值高達290億美元，同時逐年成長。去年為最高的一年。至2008年，我們將超越音樂工業。至2010年，我們將達到420億美元。共有43%的玩家為女性。因此女性玩家的數目其實要比一般認知來的多。 玩家的平均年齡?很明顯的電玩是小孩子的遊戲，對吧?並非如此，玩家的平均年齡為30歲。有趣的是，最常購買遊戲的年齡層為37歲。所以我們的主要客群是37歲。所有的電玩遊戲皆有暴力成分。新聞媒體很愛拿這個來做文章。但其實83%的電玩遊戲並無任何成人內容。可見這根本是是無稽之談。 線上遊戲的數據。我帶了些魔獸世界的資料來，它共有5千5百萬的玩家，每月的用戶費大約有8千萬美元的收益。安裝需50美元，為發行公司帶來另一筆約2億7千5百萬美元的收益。遊戲本身的開發費用約為8千萬美元，所以基本上只要一個月，開發公司就回本了。線上遊戲「Project Entropia」中的一個玩家，以26,500美元的價格購入了自己的島嶼。請注意這並不是現實中的島嶼。這位玩家實際上只買了電腦數據而已。但他有很大的權力。買賣包括了採礦及狩獵權，島嶼的土地所有權，以及一座城堡，不包含家具。 (笑聲) 據估計，虛擬物品交易市場的年市值已超過8億美元。有趣的是，這個市場實際上是由玩家們自己創造的。玩家們發現交易物品的聰明方法，同時也可交易彼此的帳號。玩家們在玩遊戲的同時也可賺錢。幾天前我瀏覽了一下eBay，想看看最近的物品。我鍵入了魔獸世界，發現了6千件物品。我最喜歡這個物件。等級60的術士，有許多的史詩裝備，要賣17萬4千美元。不用說這位玩家應該費了不少功夫。 以電玩遊戲受歡迎的程度來說，各位覺得這些人在做些什麼呢?他們正在參加洛杉磯的好萊塢露天音樂會，聆聽洛杉磯交響樂團演奏著名的電玩音樂。這是表演的實景。你可能會想這樣的音樂會一定很俗氣，但並非如此。音樂會非常地動人，特效也十分華麗。參與的人皆十分喜愛這樣的盛會。 各位認為這些人在做什麼?他們正設置自己帶來的電腦，好與彼此進行電玩比賽。世界上各個城市都有這樣的聚會，包括各位居住的城市，只是你可能還沒發覺罷了。 克里斯告訴我這裡幾年前有部影片介紹歷年來電玩遊戲繪圖技術的進步。這邊我想幫那部影片做點更新，讓各位看看繪圖技術的最新面貌，請各位試著了解這項技術。我們正處於這條曲線，繪圖技術正不斷瘋狂地進步。各位將看到或許是2007年的進展。但我希望各位可以想想十年後，電玩遊戲會有何風貌。現在讓我們觀看這段影片。 影片: 人類歷史上有許多人玩電玩遊戲。隨著人類智能與科技不斷進步，電玩遊戲也不斷進化。 (音樂) (鼓掌) 我希望各位思考的是，別將這些繪圖技術視為理所當然，而是將這些技術視為我們目前的科技進展，而我們目前所處的科技曲線暗示繪圖技術將不斷地進步。你必須要能夠繪出像這樣的圖形，才能在目前的電玩遊戲工業佔有一席之地。你必須是一個非常傑出的藝術家。一旦我們有了足夠的人才，我們將需要更多的具有想像力的藝術家，創造出前所未有的場景、前所未見的角色。 這裡我想談論的很明顯的是繪圖技術與音效。但如果你去參加一個電玩遊戲開發會議，會議中的討論題目會是情感、目的意義、暸解、以及感覺。你可能會聽到這樣的問題，電玩遊戲能讓玩家感動得哭泣嗎?這些主題才是我們真的在乎的。 我碰巧認識一個學生，他相當善於表達自己的意見，他同意首度攻開給TED在座的各位他這段自己拍攝的影片我現在就要播放這段影片。影片表達了這位學生對於自己電玩遊戲經驗的看法。 影片:我，和許多人一樣，生活在現實與電玩遊戲之間的模糊地帶。一部份的我，是有血有肉的人類但已變淂程式化、習慣電子、虛擬的世界。我大腦中區別現實與夢境的那條界線已開始崩壞。我是電玩上癮者，而這是我的故事。 (音樂) 在我出生那年，任天堂遊戲機也進入了開發階段。我在後院玩耍，學習閱讀，同時也吃蔬菜。我的童年大多花在玩樂高上。但是就跟其他同年齡層的小孩一樣，我是個電視兒童。Mr. Rogers、迪士尼、Nick Junior。五十多萬個電視廣告無疑在我的心中留下深刻的印象。 當我的父母為我跟老姊買了我們第一台任天堂，這台早期電子遊樂系統所擁有的迷幻魅力便很快地令我著迷。某一天，一切都變得不同了。 (音樂) 結合了簡單、互動式的故事情節以及電視上活生生的影像，我的16位元任天堂遊戲機已不只是讓我遠離現實的媒介。它變成了不同的存在，我的虛擬現實。 (音樂) 我是電玩上癮者，而這並不是說我花了多久在玩電玩，或是為了破關而整夜不睡，而是因為，虛擬空間的體驗，改變了我的生活，而電玩遊戲已開始腐蝕我對真實與虛幻的認知。我已無法自拔，就算我知道我無法分辨現實，但我依然渴望更多。 (音樂) 從很小的時候，我就學會讓電視牽動我的情緒。現在，觀看了20年情感充斥的電視節目，連一個精心設計的保險廣告都能讓我落淚。我只是成長中的新世代的一份子。這個新世代從電玩中體驗到的意義會比從真實世界中來的多。電玩遊戲將會進化，虛擬世界將在視覺、感覺上，與現實世界同樣真實，好比電影院的電影，或是電視新聞。在虛擬世界，或許我的自由意志會受到限制，但我的經驗仍可應用至現實生活中。如果你電玩玩得夠久，最後你會相信自己真的能滑雪、駕駛飛機、賽車、甚至殺人。我知道我可以。 與其它先前的流行文化現象不同的是，電玩遊戲讓我們成為機器的一部份，昇華至另一個現實，這是個透過下載、串流、HD的互動世界。我們與娛樂互動。這樣的互動性才是我要的。缺乏這樣的互動性，真實世界面對的問題-貧窮、戰爭、疾病、屠殺，讓我喘不過氣。這些問題的嚴重性在每天晚上的肥皂劇中受到調和。 但電玩遊戲的美妙之處並不在於生動的畫面、手握搖桿的快感、或是懾人的音效。它的美妙之處在於我情緒的牽動。我已參與過戰爭，體驗過存亡一線的恐懼，見過同袍在海灘、樹林中戰死。這些地方在視覺、感覺上比任何書籍、新聞來得真實。 遊戲的設計者相當聰明，他們知道如何激起我的恐懼、刺激、驚慌、驕傲、或是悲傷。他們利用這些情緒讓虛擬世界更有層次。一個設計良好的遊戲，能讓玩家在不知不覺中和虛擬世界融為一體。玩家體驗的越深入，肉體上的自覺與自制會變得微弱。我清楚並順從自己的渴望。不需要按鈕、扳機，只有我跟遊戲。我與世界的命運皆掌控在我的手裡。我知道電玩暴力讓我媽擔心。讓我困惑的其實不是電玩暴力跟真實世界的暴力事件越來越相似，而是真實世界的暴力跟電玩暴力越來越相似。 (音樂) 這些是我本身以外的困擾。我自己則有一個非常重要的問題。我的大腦產生了某種變化。 (音樂) 或許我們的大腦有個部位掌管我們的本能，讓我們不需思考便可做到某些事情。部分的本能為天生，大多數則是後天學習的，而所有本能皆深植在我們腦中。這些本能在真實及虛擬世界中都是十分重要的。直到最近，電玩遊戲科技才能完全取代心理學上所謂的刺激物。身為玩家，我們的世界與真實世界有相同的物理法則、相同的城市，我們也能做許多在真實世界做過的事情，不過是以虛擬的方式。想想看，我在真實世界的車，里程數約有25000英哩，在我的賽車遊戲中，里程數為31459英哩某種程度上，我從遊戲中學會如何開車。兩者的感知訊號是十分相近的。電玩中開車的時間比真實世界還要長，這種感覺是十分奇妙的。當我在黃昏時開車出去，我所想的竟是，這樣的景色幾乎和我的遊戲中的一樣美。 因為我的虛擬世界是完美無暇的，甚至比週遭的真實世界還要美麗豐富。我不確定我的個人經驗代表著什麼，但利用擬真電玩反覆刺激大量的玩家，所能帶來的潛力讓我驚恐不已。現在，我相信一個獨裁者可以更成功地利用電玩對社會大眾進行洗腦，而不是光靠電視而已。電玩遊戲十分有趣而讓人無法自拔，讓你的大腦更容易被程式化。但或許洗腦不一定總是壞事。 一款遊戲或許也能教導我們互相尊重，或是幫助我們了解真實世界所面對的問題。電玩遊戲也有行善的潛力。虛擬世界是真實世界的寫照，遊戲設計者應了解他們將擔負的責任將何其重大。我不確定未來的電玩對人類文明有何影響。但隨著虛擬與真實世界的體驗越來越相似，將會有越來越多人跟我有相同的感觸。 我最近才了解，除了畫面、音效、遊戲性、以及豐富的情感，遊戲讓現實崩壞的力量才是讓我如此著迷、上癮的原因。我知道我的現實感正慢慢消失。一部分的我根本已經等著放手。但我知道，不管電玩遊戲會變得多有趣，或是真實世界看起來將會多平板，我們必須要體認在離開螢幕之後，電玩對我們的思考及情感的影響。 (鼓掌) 哇。 (鼓掌) 我認為這段影片發人深省，所以才帶了這部影片與各位分享。有趣的是，我們談到遊戲時都會談畫面及音效，但如你所看到的，麥可也提到其他的元素。電玩遊戲也提供許多其他的感受，這就是它令人著迷的地方。當然最重要的是電玩遊戲帶來樂趣。 這首歌曲叫做「魔幻未來」。誰會引領我們進入這魔幻的未來?是跟我們想的一樣，世界上最好的導演嗎?我不認為如此。我認為是這個世代正在長大的孩子們。他們不像我們一樣，有過去的包袱。他們將有自己的實現方式，利用我們發明的工具。學生、藝術家、作家等等的情況也相同。 以大學來說，目前大約有350所大學教導電玩遊戲的課程。也就是說，目前正有數以千計的新想法不斷發生。其中有些很糟，有些則很棒。聽某人說一個很糟的電玩構想是再糟糕不過的事了。 (笑聲) 克里斯安德森: 下台，下台。夠了。他時間到了。 大衛裴利:請容我再多講一點吧。 克里斯安德森: 請說，不過我要站在這裡。 (笑聲) 這是張很不錯的照片，因為學生在放學後還來學校。已經下課了，但是學生還在午夜時回來學校，因為他們想分享自己的電玩構想。我坐在教室前面，聽著他們敘述自己的想法。所以，雖然我們很難讓學生專心上課，但這的確有可能的。 這是小女艾瑪，十七個月大。我自問，艾瑪的電玩世界會有有什麼樣的體驗呢?如我前面說過的，我們已經有許多玩家。艾瑪的電玩遊戲只要按下按鈕就會有百萬個玩家與她同樂。我們也有足夠的科技。艾瑪的遊戲世界將會有讓人驚艷而動人的畫面。而如剛剛那段影片所展示的，我們能影響並改進這個世界。艾瑪的電玩遊戲將會充滿了情感，感動得讓她流淚。當然這也要她喜歡電玩才行。 (笑聲) 我的結語。電玩遊戲表面上可能只是娛樂，但對於喜歡深入研究的人來說，電玩遊戲的新典範，將開啟全新的領域，供有夢想、敢創新的心靈揮灑。而哪裡的心靈比的上TED的聽眾呢? 謝謝各位。 克里斯安德森:謝謝大衛裴利。精采的演說。
