Talk	en	zh-tw
david_kelley_on_human_centered_design	"There's a lot of exciting things happening in the design world and at IDEO this past year, and I'm pleased to get a chance to share some of those with you. I didn't attend the first TED back in 1984 but I've been to a lot of them since that time. I thought it [would] kind of be interesting to think back to that time when Richard got the whole thing started. Thank you very much, Richard; it's been a big, enjoyable part of my life, coming here. And so thinking back, I was thinking those of us in Silicon Valley were really focused on products or objects — certainly technological objects. And so it was great fun in those days, and some of those of you who are in the audience were my clients. We'd come in with some prototype underneath a black cloth and we'd put it on the conference table, and we'd pull off the black cloth and everybody would ""ooh"" and ""ah."" That was a really good time. And so we'll continue to focus on products, as we always have. And if you were here last year, I probably wrestled you to the floor and tried to show you my new EyeModule 2, which was a camera that plugged into the Handspring. And I took a lot of pictures last year; very few people knew what I was up to, but I took a lot of pictures. This year — maybe you could show the slides — this year we're carrying this Treo, which we had a lot to do with and helped Handspring design it. Also, though we designed it a few years ago — it's just become ubiquitous in the last year or so — this Heartstream defibrillator which is saving lives. Maybe you've seen them in the airports? They seem to be everywhere now. Lots of lives are being saved by those. And, we're just about to announce the Zinio Reader product that I believe will make magazines even more enjoyable to read. So, we really will continue to focus on products. But something's happened in the last 18 years since Richard started TED, and that's that people like us — I know people in other places have caught onto this for a long time, but for us, we've really just started ... we've kind of climbed Maslow's hierarchy a little bit — and so we're now focused more and more on human-centered design, human-centeredness in an approach to design. That really involves designing behaviors and personality into products. And I think you're starting to see that, and it's making our job even more enjoyable. Interestingly enough, we used to primarily build 3-D models — you know, you've seen some today — and 3-D renderings. Then we'd go and we'd show those as communicating our ideas. But firms like ours are having to move to a point where we get those objects that we're designing and get them in motion, showing how they'll be used. And so in order to do that we've been forming internal video-production groups in order to make these kind of experience prototypes that show just what we mean about the man-machine relationship. And it's a much better way to see. It's kind of like architects who show people in their houses, as opposed to them being empty. So I thought that I would show you a few videos to show off this new, broader definition of design in products and services and environments. I have a few of them — they're no more than a minute or a minute-and-a-half apiece — but I thought you might be interested in seeing some of our work over the last year, and how it responds in video. So, Prada New York: we were asked by Rem Koolhaas and OMA to help us conceive the technology that's in their retail store in New York. He wanted a new kind of store — a new one — a store that had a cultural role as well as a retail one. And that meant actually designing custom technology as opposed to just buying things off the shelf and putting them to use. So, there're lots of things. Everything has RF tags: there's RF tags on the user, on the cards, there's the staff devices that are all around the store. You pick them up, and once you see something that you're interested in, the staff person can scan them in and then they can be shown on any screen throughout the store. You can look at color, and sizes, and how it appeared on the runway, or whatever. And so then the object — the merchandise that you're interested in — can be scanned. It's taken into the dressing room, and in the dressing room there are scanners so that we know exactly what clothing you have in the dressing room. We can put that up on a touch screen and you can play with that, and get more information about the clothing that you're interested in as you're trying it on. It's been used a lot of places, but I particularly like the use here of liquid crystal displays in the changing room. The last time I went to see this store, there was a huge buzz about people standing outside and wondering, ""Am I going to actually get to see the people changing clothes here?"" But if you push the button, of course, the whole wall goes dark. So you can try to get approval, or not, for whatever you're wearing. And then one of my favorite features of the technology is the magic mirror, where you put on the clothes. There's a big display in the mirror, and you can turn around — but there's a three second delay. So you can see what you look like from the back or all the way around, as you look. (Applause) About a year and a half ago we were asked to design an installation in the museum — this is a new wing of the Science Museum in London, and it's primarily about digital and biomedical issues. And a group at Itch, which is now part of IDEO, designed this interactive wall that's about four stories tall. I don't know if anybody's seen this — it's pretty spectacular in the room. Anyway, it's based on the London subway system. And so you can see that the goal is to bring some of the feedback that the people who had gone to the museum were giving, and get it up on the wall so everybody could see. Just for everybody to see. So you enter your information. Then, like the London tube system, the little trains go around with what you're thinking about. And then when you get to a station, it's expanded so that you can actually read it. Then when you exit the IMAX theatre on the fourth floor — mostly teenagers coming out of there — there's this big open space that has these tables in it that have interactive games which are quite fun, also designed by Durrell [Bishop] and Andrew [Hirniak] of Itch. And the topics include things that the museum is about: male fertility, choosing the sex of your baby or what a driverless car might be like. There's lots of room, so people can come up and understand what it is before they get involved. And also, it's not shown in the video, but these are very beautiful. They go to the top of the wall and when they reach all the way to the top, after they've bounced around, they disperse into bits and go off into the atmosphere. The next video is not done by us. This is CBS Sunday Morning that aired about two weeks ago. Scott Adams ran into us and asked us if we wouldn't help to design the ultimate cubicle for Dilbert, which sounded like a fun thing and so we couldn't pass it up. He's always been interested in technology in the future. (Video: Scott Adams: I realized that at some point I might be the world's expert on what's wrong with cubicles. So we thought, well, wouldn't it be fun to get together with some of the smartest design guys in the world and try to figure out if we could make the cubicle better? Narrator: Though they work in a wide-open office space spectacularly set under San Francisco's Oakland Bay Bridge, the team built their own little cubicles to fully experience the problems. Woman: A one-way mirror. I can look out; you can look at yourself. Narrator: They took pictures. Woman: You feel so trapped, when someone kind of leans over and you're sort of held captive there for a minute. SA: So far it's chaos, but a lot of people are doing stuff, so that's good. We'll see what happens. Narrator: The first group builds a cubicle in which the walls are screens for the computer and for family photos. In the second group's scenario, the walls are alive and actually give Dilbert a group hug. (Laughter) Behind the humor is the idea of making the cubicle more human.) David Kelley: So here's the final thing, complete with orange lighting that follows the sun across — that follows the tracks of the sun — across the sky. So you feel that in your cubicle. And my favorite feature, which is a flower in a vase that wilts when you leave in disappointment, and then when you come back, it comes up to greet you, happy to see you. (SA: The storage is built right into the wall.) DK: You know, it has homey touches like a built-in fish tank in the walls, or something to be aggressive with to release tension. (SA: Customizable for the boss of your choice.) DK: And of course: a hammock for your afternoon nap that stretches across your cubicle. (SA: Life would be sweet in a cubicle like this.) DK: This next project, we were asked to design a pavilion to celebrate the recycling of the water on the Millennium Dome in London. The dome has an incredible amount of water that washes off of it, as well as wastewater. So this building actually celebrates the water as it comes out of the recycling plant and goes into the reed bed so that it can be filtered for the final time. The pavilion's design goal was to be kind of quiet and peaceful. In contrast to if you went inside the dome, where it's kind of wild and crazy and everybody's learning all kinds of things, or fooling around, or whatever they're doing. But it was intended to be quite quiet. And then you would wander around and gather information, in a straightforward fashion, about the recycling process and what's being done, and how they're going to reuse the water once it comes through the plant. And then, if you saw, the panels actually rotate. So you can get the information on the front side, but as they rotate, you can see the actual recycling plant behind, with all the machines as they actually process the water. You can see: there's the plant. These are all very low-budget videos, like quick prototypes. And we're announcing a new product here tonight, which is the first time this has ever been shown in public. It's called Spyfish, and it's a company called H2Eye, started by Nigel Jagger in London. And it's a company that's trying to bring the experience — many people have boats, or enjoy being on boats, but a very small percentage of people actually have the capability or the interest in going under the water and actually seeing what's there, and enjoying what scuba divers do. This product, it has two cameras. You throw it over the side of your boat and you basically scuba dive without getting wet. For us — there's the object — for us, it was two projects. One, to design the interface so that the interface doesn't get in your way. You could have that kind of immersive experience of being underwater — of feeling like you're underwater — seeing what's going on. And the other one was to design the object and make sure that it was a consumer product and not a research tool. And so we spent a lot of time — this has been going on for about seven or eight years, this project — and [we're] just ready to start building them. (Narrator: The Spyfish is a revolutionary subaquatic video camera. It can dive to 500 feet, to where sunlight does not penetrate, and is equipped with powerful lights. It becomes your eyes and ears as you venture into the deep. The battery-powered Spyfish sends the live video-feed through a slender cable.) DK: This slender cable was a huge technological advancement and it allowed the whole thing to be the size that it is. (Narrator: And this central box connects the whole system together. Maneuvering the Spyfish is simple with the wireless remote control. You watch the video with superimposed graphics that indicate your depth and compass heading. The fluid graphics and ambient sounds combine to help you completely lose yourself underwater.) (Applause) DK: And the last thing I'll talk about is ApproTEC, which is a project that I'm very excited about. ApproTEC is a company started by Dr. Martin Fisher, who's a good friend of mine. He's a Ph.D. from Stanford. He found himself in Kenya on a Fulbright and he had a very interesting insight, which is that he said, ""There must be entrepreneurs in Kenya; there must be entrepreneurs everywhere."" And he noticed that for weddings and funerals there they could find enough money to put something together. So he decided to start manufacturing products in Kenya with Kenyan manufacturers — designed by people like us, but taken there. And to this date — he's been gone for only a few years — he's started 19,000 companies. He's made 30,000 new jobs. And just the sales of the products — this is a non-profit — the sales of these products is now .6% of the GDP of Kenya. This is one guy doing this. This is a pretty spectacular thing. So we're in the process of helping them design deep-well, low-cost manual pumps in order for these people who have a quarter acre of land to be able to grow crops in the off-season. What they do now is: they can grow crops in the rainy season but they can't grow them in the off-season. And so by doing that, the woman that you saw in the first thing — she's a school teacher — always wanted to send her kids to college and she's going to be able to do it because of these things. So with seed-squeezers, and pumps, and hay-balers and very straightforward things that we're designing — my students are doing this as class projects and IDEO has donated their time to do this kind of work — it's really amazing to see his success, Martin's. We also were thinking about the experience of Richard, and so — (Laughter) — we designed this hat, because I knew I'd be the last one in the day and I needed to deal with him. So I just have one more thing to say. (Laughter) Can you read it? (Laughter) Well, it's always kind of funny when he comes up and hovers. You know, you don't want to be rude to him and you don't want to feel guilty, and so I thought this would do it, where I just sit here. (Laughter) (Applause) So we saw a lot of interesting things being designed today in this session, and from all the different presenters. And in my own practice, from product to ApproTEC, it's really exciting that we're taking a more human-centered approach to design, that we're including behaviors and personalities in the things we do, and I think this is great. Designers are more trusted and more integrated into the business strategy of companies, and I have to say, for one, I feel very lucky at the progress that design has made since the first TED. Thanks a lot."	設計界，尤其是IDEO, 在過去一年發生很多令人振奮的事我很榮幸和各位分享一下 我在1984年時沒參加到第一屆的TED但之後不勝枚舉如果回顧Richard發起TED的這段時間，其實挺有趣的。在此，謝謝Richard。我參加TED,是人生中很盛大的經驗 所以當我回想時，我發現我們矽谷人，真的很投入在產品跟事物最主要還是科技用品當時真的是很好玩。在座有些人還曾是我的客戶我們會把模型藏在一塊黑布下放在會議室的桌上打開它，就會聽到大家“哇”的驚嘆那是一段很美好的時光 我們不斷致力于產品的開發，一如往常如果各位去年也有來我可能有逼大家去看我的新作品EyeModule 2我把照相機嵌入這臺Handspring的PDA我還照了很多相片很多照片，但很少人知道我的用意今年，（麻煩放一下投影片）今年我們要幫Handspring設計這臺Treo有很多工作得做儘管我們幾年前就設計過了去年起又開始流行這個急救用的Heartstream心律除顫儀也許你們在機場有看過?現在好像到處都有救了很多命接下來，我們準備要發表Zinio閱讀器我相信將會使人更享受閱讀雜誌所以，我們將持續致力于產品設計 但自Richard成立TED後這18年，在我們這群人身上經歷了一些事我知道世界上某些地方長期以來也都有相同經驗對馬斯洛的需求層級而言，我們才真正開始要往上爬所以現在的我們越來越致力在以人為本的設計設計其中一法就是以人為中心也就是設計產品時，把行為跟個性融入我相信你將發現這讓我們更享受我們的工作 有趣的是，我們過去主要建立3D模型大家知道，就是現今常見的3D圖然後我們會用來表達我們的點子但像我們這樣的公司必須突破我們把我們設計的物件動起來展示他們的用途而要做到如此，我們成立了公司內部的制片團隊為了要表達所謂的人跟物的連結我們創造這種體驗型的樣品這樣就使人更容易體會有點像是建築師與其給人看圖還不如直接讓他們看成品屋 我接下來要讓各位看的幾段影片呈現出在產品，服務跟環境的設計上已經有新的且更寬廣的定義這幾段影片不到一分鐘或頂多一分半大家應該會對影片中，我們去年的一些成果感到有趣，及其所造成的回響 首先，紐約Prada，Rem Koolhaas 跟OMA找上我們要讓人們接受這樣的科技這是紐約的專賣店他想要一種新的店，全新的概念店要有賦予專賣店其文化角色也就是說與其只是從架上買了商品後使用要為消費者特製一種科技體驗 每一樣商品都有無線標簽在消費者身上，卡上都有整家店店員都配有都有一套機器你選你喜歡的商品店員就會掃描進電腦顧客就會在店里有的銀幕看到顏色，尺寸，模特兒穿著走臺步樣子等而選到的商品—你喜歡的商品被掃描後，帶進更衣室在更衣室內還有掃描器這樣就知道你選了那些衣服已經在更衣室所有項目會顯示在觸控面板上看你選的衣服，可以試著搭配，看更多資訊就好像在試穿一樣這已經廣泛應用了，但我對更衣室內用LCD這樣的應用，情有獨鐘 之前我去店里看有很多人站在店外猶豫著“我真的會看到人家換衣服的樣子嗎？”但只要按這個鈕，整個牆就會變色可以讓你決定到底要不要買身上穿的這套這科技其中我最喜歡的功能之一是魔鏡，當你換上衣服時你轉身，鏡上有一面顯示器等三秒鐘你會看到從各個角度所呈現的效果（鼓掌） 大概一年半前，我們設計一個博物館的裝置這是倫敦科博館的新館主要是有關數位跟生醫的主題IDEO其中一個部門Itch,他們團隊設計了一個4層樓高的互動牆我不確定有沒有人看過這在室內還挺壯觀的 總之，這就像倫敦地鐵系統我們可以看出我們的目標是把一些來過這博物館的人他們提供的反饋再放到牆上讓所有人都看的到，就是要讓大家看到當你輸入資訊時，他們像倫敦的地鐵系統這些列車跟著你的思路跑而你到達某一站時，整個訊息在你眼前一覽無遺 等到你到4樓IMAX影城時看到很多年輕人走出來有一個大廣場擺了很多桌子這些桌子有很多好玩的互動遊戲也是Itch的Durrel[Bishop]和Andrew[Hirniak]所設計逰戲主題跟博物館內容相應：男性生殖，決定未來孩子的性別，或是一臺無人駕駛的車會長怎樣因為空間很大，所有人都看得到在自己玩前就可以知道要怎麼玩 而且，雖然影片沒有拍到，很妙的還有這些訊息到互動牆的頂端的時候他們會跳來跳去，之後分散成很多位然後消失不見 接下來的影片不是我們拍的是CBS周日晨間新聞—兩週前播出的Scott Adams找上我們問我們要不要幫忙設計呆伯特的終極辦公區因為太好玩所以我們很難拒絕Adams對未來科技很熱衷 （Scott Adams:我發現到一定程度我應該是挑辦公室每個人小區域毛病的大師我就想啦：如果找一些世界頂尖的設計人才一起合作看看如何改善辦公區 旁白：結果他們在舊金山的奧克蘭灣橋下一個景色美好，完全開放的空間團隊造了自己的辦公區去體驗問題所在 女：單面鏡，我可以看到外面的人，外面的人看到自己 旁白：他們照很多像 女：當有人稍微靠近時，就會感覺好像被困住了之後會有點短暫的無法動搖 SA: 到目前為止還很多狀況，但人多力量大，情況還是樂觀我們靜觀其變 旁白：第一組造了一個螢幕牆上面佈滿電腦螢幕跟全家福照片第二組是活牆壁還會集體抱呆伯特（笑聲)這幽默的呈現背後意涵是要把辦公環境變得更人性化） David Kelley: 最後的結晶是，用橘色的光跟著太陽的足跡照，劃越天際感覺大自然在你的辦公區我喜歡的是，在這花瓶有一朵花當你離開時，會失望的枯萎當你回來，又開心的活過來歡迎你 （SA:置物柜結合在牆壁裡） DK: 還有一些把家的元素融入，像牆上弄魚缸或是有減壓的發泄玩具 （SA: 還可以客制成老板的樣子） DK: 當然還有睡午覺的吊床整個在你的辦公區展開 （SA:有這樣的辦公環境，人生會很美好） DK:接下來的案子，我們受雇要設計一個館慶祝倫敦千禧水庫回收水的成功這水庫需要驚人的水流量就跟廢水一樣所以這樣的建築是表揚當水從回收廠出來再到天然地去做最後段的過濾 設計這館的宗旨要外觀看呈現很平靜祥和因為廢水處理廠內部其實是很大又吵，大家可以學到不同的知識，隨便逛逛或做任何事情重點就是要沒有噪音然後人們就可以走來走去直接學習水回收的處理過程是怎麼樣及如何再利用從處理廠回收出來的水如果你注意到的話這些螢幕會動，正面你會吸收資訊當它換面時，你會看到背面回收廠跟機械處理水的實景現在看到的就是那個水廠這些都是低成本的影片，就像我們的樣品 我們今晚要在這發表新產品這是第一次公開叫做Spyfish,是Nigel Jagger在倫敦創的公司叫H2EyeH2Eye公司就是在創造一種體驗— 很多人有船或喜歡坐船出海，但事實上很少人能夠或有興趣潛入水裡去一探究竟像潛水客享受水底風光這產品有兩臺攝影機你把它丟進水中基本上就如同潛水但不會弄濕身體 就長這樣，對我們而言是兩個計劃。一，要設計界面不會擋到視線的界面你會有一種強烈的感覺覺得自己就在水裡看到水底的景觀其二，就是要設計這產品確定看起來是消費性商品而不是研究用的器材結果我們花了很多時間—大概花了7到8年，這個計劃我們準備好要成型 （旁白：Spyfish是創新性的潛水攝影機可潛到500尺，陽光照射不到的深度內建功能強大的照明燈可以當你深水下的眼睛跟耳朵電池會透過一條細線傳輸Spyfish的即時影像 DK:這條細線是很大的技術突破可以用這麼小的尺寸達到全能的效果 （旁白：中間這箱子整合這整個系統用無線遙控器控制Spyfish很容易你看到多層圖像的影片告訴你深度跟行進方位水底視覺跟聽覺呈現結合會使人覺得身歷其境）（鼓掌） DK:最後我要講的是讓我個人很振奮的ApproTEC專案ApproTEC是我一個很好的朋友Martin Fisher博士所創立的公司。他擁有史丹佛的博士學位。他獲Fulbright的經費去肯亞然後他發現很有趣的一件事，他說肯亞一定有創業家到處都有創業家他發現當地的婚禮跟喪禮當地人都有辦法籌夠錢舉辦所以他決定要在肯亞跟當地廠商從事生產— 我們設計，他們生產到今天—他去沒幾年的時間—已經創了1萬9千家公司了創造出3萬個新的工作機會而光產品銷售—這是社會企業—占了目前肯亞百分之6的國內生產毛額一個人的力量可以有這樣效果，實在驚人 我們現在致力於幫他們設計深井，低廉的手動抽水機可以幫有4分之一畝地的當地人在旱季期可以種作物現在的情況是：雨季時他們可以種作物旱季就種不出來所以，大家一開始看到的那位女士她是一個老師—希望她的學生可以上大學因為這些總總，她得以實現她的夢想用這些碎種子機，泵，乾草打包機這些我們設計非常簡易的農耕機這是我史丹佛學生的課堂作業IDEO的員工也投入他們的時間參與看到Martin的成功令人開心 我們也沒忘記Richard的貢獻所以（大笑）—我們設計了這帽子，我知道我是今天最後一個講著我還得應付他。所以我最後要說的是（大笑）你們看得到嗎？（大笑）哈，每次當他靠近要一探究竟時還蠻好笑的我不想對他不敬也不敢有罪惡感所以我決定如果我坐這就好（大笑）（鼓掌） 我們今天看到很多有趣的設計都是不同的人所呈現的從產品到ApproTEC，我自己的經驗讓我學到，以人為本的設計融入人類的行為跟個性是很令人振奮的演進我覺得這是很棒的事設計師在公司的策略面得到更多的信任跟融入感最後我想說，我很榮幸看到從第一屆TED開始以來設計界的進步。謝謝大家。
