Talk	en	zh-tw
david_s_rose_on_pitching_to_vcs	"Good morning. My name is David Rose. I am a serial entrepreneur turned serial investor. And by the use of pitching PowerPoints to VCs, I have personally raised tens of millions of dollars from VCs through PowerPoint pitches. And turning to the other side of the equation, I've personally supervised the investment of tens of millions of dollars into companies who have pitched me with PowerPoint presentations. So I think it's safe to say I know a little bit about the process of pitching. So, the very first question you've got to figure out is: What is the single most important thing that a VC is looking for when you come to them pitching your new business idea? There are obviously all kinds of things — business models and financials and markets and this and that. Overall, of all the things that you have to do, what is the single most important thing the VC is going to be investing in? Somebody? What? Audience: People! David Rose: People! You! That's it — you are the person. Therefore, the entire purpose of a VC pitch is to convince them that you are the entrepreneur in whom they are going to invest their money and make a lot of money in return. Now, how do you do this? You can't just walk up and say, ""Hi, I'm a really good guy, good girl, and you should invest in me."" Right? So in the course of your VC pitch — you have a very few minutes; most VC pitches, angel pitches, are about 15 minutes, most should be less than half an hour — people's attention span, after 18 minutes, begins to drop off. Tests have shown. So in that 18 or 10 or five minutes, you have to convey a whole bunch of different characteristics, about 10 different characteristics, while you're standing up there. What's the single most important thing you've got to convey? What? Audience: Integrity. DR: Boy, oh boy, oh boy! That's a straight line, look at that! And I didn't even prompt him. Right, integrity. The key thing. I would much rather invest in, take a chance on, somebody who I know is straight than where there's any possible question of who are they looking out for, and what's going on. So the most important thing is integrity. What's the second most important thing? Let's see if you can get this one. Audience: Self-confidence. DR: Close enough. Passion. Right? Entrepreneurs, by definition, are people who are leaving something else, starting a new world, creating and putting their lifeblood into this thing. You've got to convey passion. If you're not passionate, why should anyone else be, or put money into your company if you're not passionate about it? Integrity, passion: the most important things. Then there's a whole panoply of other things you've got to wrap up in this package you're presenting to a VC. Experience: you've got to be able to say, ""Hey, you know, I've done this before."" ""Done this before"" is starting an enterprise, creating value, and taking something from beginning to end. That's why VCs love to fund serial entrepreneurs — even if you didn't do it right the first time, you've learned the lessons, which puts you in good stead the next time. Along with the experience of starting an enterprise or running something — doesn't have to be a business, it can be an organization in a school, a not-for-profit. But experience in creating an organization. Next: knowledge. If you tell me you're going to be the developer of the map of the human genome, you better know what a human genome is; I want you to have expertise. I don't want somebody who says, ""I've got a great idea in a business I know nothing about. I don't know who the players are, what the market is like."" You've got to know your market, your area. And you have to have the skills that it takes to get a company going. Those skills include everything from technical skills if it's a technology business, to marketing and sales and management and so on. But, you know, not everybody has all these skills. Very few people have the full set of skills it takes to run a company. What else do you require? Well, leadership. You've got to be able to convince us that you either have developed a team that has all those factors in it, or else you can. And you have the charisma and the management style and the ability to get people to follow your lead, to inspire them, to motivate them to be part of your team. Having done all that, what else do I want to know as a VC? I want to know that you have commitment. That you are going to be here to the end. I want you to say — or I want you to convey — that you are going to die if you have to, with your very last breath, your fingernails scratching as they draw you out. You'll keep my money alive and make more from it. I don't want someone who'll cut and run at the first opportunity. Bad things happen. There's never been a venture-funded company where bad things didn't happen. So know that you're committed to the very end. You've got to have vision to see where this is going. I don't want another ""me too"" product. I want somebody who can change the world out there. But on top of that, I need realism, Because while changing the world is great, it doesn't always happen. And before you get to change the world, bad things are going to take place; you have to deal with that. And you have to have rational projections. Finally, you're asking for my money — not just because it's my money, but because it's me. You need to be coachable. I need to know you have the ability to listen. We've had a lot of experience. People who are VCs or angels investing in you have had experience, and they'd like to know that you want to hear that experience. So how do you convey these 10 things in 10 minutes without saying them? You can't say, ""I've got integrity, invest in me!"" You've got to do a whole pitch that conveys this without conveying it. Think about your pitch as a timeline. It starts off, you walk in the door. They know nothing whatsoever about you. You can take them on an emotional — all pitches, all sales presentations, are emotional at some level. You can go up, you can go down, right? And it goes from beginning to end. You walk in, the first thing you've got to do, the overall arc of your presentation, it's got to start like a rocket. You've got maybe 10 seconds — between 10 and 30 seconds, depending on how long the pitch is — to get their attention. In my case, I've invested. I've gotten millions of dollars from PowerPoint pitches. ""I've invested millions."" That should get you right there. This can be a fact or something counterintuitive. It can be a story or an experience. But you've got to grab their emotional attention, focused on you, within that first few seconds. And then from there, you've got to take them on a very solid, steady, upward path, right from beginning to end. Everything has to reinforce this. And you've got to get better and better and better, revving up to the very end, then you've got to — boom! — knock them out of the park. You want to get them to such an emotional high they're ready to write you a check, throw money at you, before you leave. How do you do that? First of all, logical progression. Any time you go backwards, any time you skip a step — imagine walking up a staircase where some of the treads are missing, or the heights are different. You stop, you need to figure out a nice, logical progression. Start with what the market is: Why are you going to do X, Y or Z? And then you've got to tell me how you're going to do it, and what you're going to do. And it's got to flow from beginning to end. You've got to let me know there are touchstones, to tie in to the rest of the world out there. For example, reference companies I've heard of, or basic items in your business. I want to know about things that I can relate to: validators, or anything that tells me somebody else has approved this, or there's outside validation. It can be sales; it can be you got an award for something; it can be people have done it before; it can be your beta tests are going great, whatever. I want to know validation — not just what you're telling me, but that somebody or something else out there says this makes sense. And then, I'm looking for the upside; I need a believable upside. That's two parts; it's got to be upside and believable. The upside means if you tell me that five years out, you're making a million dollars a year, that's not really upside. Telling me you'll be making a billion dollars a year — that's not believable. So it's got to be both. On the other hand are things that take the emotional level down. You have to recover from those. For example, anything that I know is not true. ""We have no competition. Nobody makes a widget like this."" Odds are I know somebody who's made a widget, and the minute you tell me that, I discount half of what you're saying from then on. Anything I don't understand, where I have to make the leap myself, in my own head, will stop the flow of the presentation. So you've got to take me through like a sixth-grader — dub, dub, dub — but without patronizing me. And it's a very tricky path. But if you can do it, it works really well. Anything that's inconsistent within your concept — if you tell me sales of X, Y or Z are 10 million dollars, five slides later, they're five million dollars ... One may have been gross sales, one may have been net sales, but I want to know that all the numbers make sense together. And then, finally: anything that's an error or a typo, or a stupid mistake or a line that's in the wrong place — that shows me that if you can't do a presentation, how can you run a company? So this all feeds in together. The best way to do this is to look at our betters, people who have done this before. Let's look at the most successful technology executive in the business, and see how a presentation goes. Bill Gates's PowerPoint presentation over here. Here's Gates doing a thing for Windows. Is this how to do a PowerPoint presentation? What do you think? No. Who do you think we should look at as our role model? Oh, isn't that funny! There's another great one over here. OK, Steve Jobs. You want absolute — this is the Zen of presentation, right? Here he is, one little guy, black jeans and stuff, on a totally empty stage. What are you focusing on? You're focusing on him! This is Steve Jobs. So are these wonderful long bullet points, whole list of things good? No, they're not. The long bullet points are bad. What's good? Short. Short bullet points. But you know what? Even better than short bullet points are no bullet points. Just give me the headline. And you know what? How many bullet points does Steve Jobs use? Basically, none. What do you do? Best of all, images. Just a simple image. I look at the image; a picture's worth a thousand words. You look at the image and you've got the whole thing. Then you come back to me; you're focused on me, why I'm such a great guy, why you want to invest, why this all makes sense. That said, we only have a very short time, so let's run through the things to include in your presentation. First of all, none of these big, long-titled slides with blah, blah, I'm presenting to so-and-so on X date. I know the day, I know who I am — I don't need all that. Just give me your company logo. I look at the logo, and it ties it to my brain. Then I come back to you. I'm focused on you, OK? You give me your quick, 15-second or 30-second intro, grab my attention. Then you give me a quick business overview. This is not a five-minute pitch. This is, you know, two sentences. ""We build widgets for the X, Y, Z market."" Or, ""We sell services to help do X."" You know, whatever. And that is like the picture on the outside of a jigsaw puzzle box. That lets me know the context. It gives me the armature for the whole thing you'll be going through; it lets me put everything in relation to what you've told me. Then you've got to walk me through, show me who your management team is. I want to know the size of the market. Why is this market worth getting at? I want to know your product, that's very important. Now, this is not a product pitch or sales pitch. I don't want to know all the ins and outs, just what the heck is it? If it's a website, show me a screenshot of your website. Don't do a live demo. Never do a live demo. Do a canned demo, or something that lets me know why people are going to buy whatever it is. Now that I know what you're selling, tell me how you make money on it. For every X you sell, you get Y, or services of Z. I want to know what the business model is on a per-unit basis, or for the actual product you're selling. I want to know who you're selling to in terms of customers and if you have any special relationships that will help you, whether it's a distribution relationship or a producing partner. Again, validation. This helps to say you're bigger than just one little thing over here. But everybody has competition. There's never been a company with no competition, even if the competition is the old way of doing something. I want to know exactly what your competition is, and that will help me judge how you fit into the whole operation. I want to know how you're special. I know what your competition does — how are you going to prevent them from eating your lunch? All this ties into the financial overview. And you can't do a VC pitch without giving me your financials. I want to know a year or two back, or as long as you've been in existence. And I want to know four or five years forward. Five is a bit much. Probably four. And I want to know how that business model, on a product basis, will translate into a company model: How many widgets will you sell? You make X amount per widget. I want to know what the driver is. We'll have 1,000 customers this year and 10,000 the next, our revenues will do this and that. That gives me the whole picture for the next several years into which I'm investing. And I want to know how the money from me will help you get there. You're going to open an offshore plant in China, you're going to spend it all on sales and marketing, you're going to go to Tahiti, whatever. But then comes the ask, where you tell me how much you want. You're looking for 5 million — at what valuation? Two million? 100,000? What's the money in so far? Who invested? I hope you invested — if you can't invest in your own thing, why should I? So I like to know if you have friends and family, or angel investors, or more VCs before. What's the capital structure up until this point? Finally, having done all that, you've now told me the whole thing, so now you bring it back to that conclusion. This is that rocket going up. Hopefully everything has been positive. And everything you say clicks, it all makes sense. And I'm thinking, ""This is really great!"" Then you take me back to just your logo on the screen. And I look at the logo — OK, good. Now I come back to you. Nothing else to look at, right? Now you've got to wrap it up to give me the final — boom! — the final pitch that's going to send me into space. Now, in the process of doing this, how do you remember the sequences and do it? You've noticed I'm not looking at the screen, right? The screen is in front of me, so I couldn't even see if I wanted to. So how do I know what's going on? Well, I have a laptop in front of me. You're looking at me and at this. What am I looking at? You think that I'm looking at that? No, I'm looking, actually, at a special version of PowerPoint over here, which shows me the slides ahead and behind, my notes, so I can see what's going on. PowerPoint has this built into every copy of it that's shipped. If you use Apple's Keynote, it's got an even better version. There's another program called Ovation you can get from Adobe that they bought last summer, which helps you run the timers and lets you figure out what's going on. So, here's my wrap-up to take you to the moon, right? I usually do a Top 10, but we don't have time, so: David's Top Five Presentation Tips. Number five: always use presenter mode, or Ovation, or presenter tools. It lets you know exactly where you're going, helps you pace yourself, gives you a timer, the whole bit. Number four: always use remote control. Have you seen me touch the computer? No. Why not? Because I'm using remote control. Always use remote control. Number three: the handouts you give are not your presentation. If you follow my suggestions, you'll have a very spare, Zen-like presentation, which is great to convey who you are and get people emotionally involved, but not good as a handout. You want a handout that gives more information; it has to stand without you. Number two: don't read your speech. Can you imagine? (Reading) ""You should invest in my company ... "" It doesn't work. And the number one presentation tip: never, ever look at the screen. You're making a connection with your audience, and you always want a one-on-one connection. The screen should come up behind you and supplement what you're doing, instead of replace you. And that is how to pitch to a VC."	"早安，我是David Rose我從一個連續創業家，轉為一個連續投資者藉由有說服力的PowerPoint我曾親自從創投業者那募得上千萬美元的資金然後，我轉換身份成為投資者也曾經親自管理上百萬的公司投資案那些公司也是用PowerPoint來說服我所以，我應該還夠格說，對如何說服創投者我還算有一點了解 因此，我認為當你接觸創投業來投銷你的商業點子時各位第一要搞清楚的問題是什麼是他們所想知道的還有許多明顯要知道的事包括商業模式，和財務分析也包括市場分析總括來說，你必須要作的事當中什麼是創投唯一最想要知道的呢?有人可以說看看嗎?是什麼?聽眾: 人人?就是你—你就是這個最關鍵的人物所以，整個說服創投者的整個過程中就是為了說服他們你是他們想要投資的創業家而且可以幫助他們獲得更高價值的回報 所以，你該怎麼作呢?你不能只是走上前然後說「你好，我真是個好男孩，好女孩，你們應該投資我」是吧?所以，整個創投提案的過程，你只會有幾分鐘的時間而大多數的創投提案天使投資大約有15分鐘多數的創投提案則少於半小時實驗證明，人的注意力僅能維持18分鐘然後就會開始降低所以在那18分鐘，或10分鐘，或5分鐘的時間內你必須傳遞出許多不同的人格特質實際上，從你上台報告開始你必須傳達出約10種不同的人格特質而哪一項是最重要的特質，你必須傳達的？是什麼?(觀眾) 正直哇！好傢伙！正中目標！我甚至都還沒有提醒他呢答對了，正直，因為這是最重要的你知道嗎?我寧願投資在某個我知道是正直的人身上也不願投資給某個可能有問題的人也就是他們可能另有所圖或企圖不明所以最重要的特質是正直 除了正直之外，第二重要的特質是什麼？讓我們看看有沒有人可以回答這個問題(觀眾)自信非常接近了! 是熱情沒錯，我們要的是定義上的創業家這些人會跳脫世俗，開啟一個全新的世界而且會把他們所有的心血完全投入到這項事業各位必須要傳遞出熱情如果你自己都對自己的公司沒有熱情別人怎麼會對它有熱情呢?一旦你自己都沒有熱情其他人為什麼要投入資金在你的公司呢?所以，正直加上熱情，是創業家最重要的必備特質 接著還有很多其它重要的特質是你在向創投業者簡報時所必須傳達的例如:經驗你必須能大聲說出:「我之前做過這個」「之前做過這個」是指開創一個企業及創造價值而且是包括了從頭到尾都有參與到這也就是為何創投喜愛資助連續創業家因為即使你一開始沒有作好你也曾經在失敗中學到了寶貴的一課會對在下一次創業有所幫助 所以曾有過開創公司的經驗或是進行過相關工作的經驗不一定要是一個企業也可以是學校社團或是非營利組織但他們會希望讓有經驗的人來開創一個組織下一個特質是專業知識如果你告訴我，你打算成為了不起的人類基因圖譜研發商你最好懂得什麼是人類基因組我的意思是，你必須要有相關領域的專業知識我不希望有人說我一點都不懂，但我有好的點子我不知道誰是這個行業的競爭者我不知道這個市場的狀況因此，你必須對你要進入的市場有所了解你必須懂你要進入的領域 你還必須要有讓這間公司繼續營運的能力這些能力包括來自技術的各個層面如果是科技產業，也包含市場與行銷還有管理等但不是每個人都擁有所有的能力只有少數人具備完整的技能來經營一家公司因此，你還需要什麼？是的，就是領袖特質你必須有能力來說服我們你曾經培養過一個團隊，擁有所有這些所需的特質或你自己本身具備所有的特質你還必須擁有領袖魅力和管理風格以及讓別人追隨你的領導能力能夠激發他們、鼓舞他們成為你團隊的一份子然而,在擁有這些特質之後還有什麼其它的事,是身為創投的我想知道的呢?我想知道你能信守承諾你是否願意撐到最後一刻我想要由你口中說出,或是你傳遞出為這間公司鞠躬盡瘁、死而後已在被拖出公司時，你的指甲會在四壁留下抓痕你也要保証我的投資不會血本無歸而且還會賺更多回來我不希望投資在一個當一遇到危機就溜之大吉的人因為從來都沒有創投天使和創投公司所投資的新創公司從來都沒有壞事發生所以我想知道你對所承諾的事會堅持到最後 你還必須有願景你要能夠看清楚未來的走向我不要一個只會說""我也是""的產品我要一個能明瞭一切，能改變世界的人但除此之外，我也需要腳踏實地的人因為我需要知道你明白能改變世界是最好的,但那不一定必然會發生並且在你有能力改變世界之前困難總是會先發生所以你必須有能力去處理解決這些困難而且你必須有合理的推論等相關想法 最後,你向我籌資並不只是因為你需要我的錢,而是因為你願意被我指導所以我必須知道你肯聆聽我們有過許多實務經驗投資你的創投公司或天使有豐富的經驗, 而他們想知道的是你願意去了解那些經驗 但你如何在有限的10分鐘內,傳達這10種人格特質而不囉嗦？你不能只是說.「我很正直,投資我吧!」 對嗎?你必須表現出這10種特質但不讓人覺得你在刻意傳達這些訊息因此,將你的提案想像成一條時間線從你一踏進門就開始進行他們對你一無所知而你可以左右他們的情緒所有的提案或所有的銷售報告,或多或少都受情緒左右你可以將情緒拉高或降低從開始到結束都是如此 一走進門,第一件要做的事對於你整體的報告而言必須有快如火箭的開頭你可能只有10秒,一般是介於10到30秒之間來吸引他們的注意,視提案時間長短而定以我為例: 「我一直在投資,我已經獲利數千萬美元,都是靠PowerPoint提案而來的我已投資了數千萬美元」類似這樣.這應該能給你們一些概念這會是一個因素,而每個人都可能認為這不符合直覺開頭可以是一個故事或經驗但你一定要掌握住他們的情感注意力,將目光集中在你身上關鍵就是開頭的幾秒鐘時間然後,一步步的,你要引導他們到牢靠、穩健且漸入佳境的方向從頭到尾都要不斷地加強這一點你必須要愈來愈好、再好、還要更好一步步堆砌起來最後,「砰」一聲向他們擊出一支漂亮的全壘打將他們帶往情緒高潮讓他們馬上簽下支票給你,搶著投錢給你就在你離開之前 好,所以你要怎麼做才能辦到呢?首先,要有邏輯的進程當你往回走,或跳過了某個步驟時想像你正在走樓梯,其中缺了些階梯或階與階之間的高度不同你停下來,你必須弄清楚你需要一個合理的邏輯進程從告訴他們市場的情況開始為什麼你要這麼做,步驟 X, Y或 Z然後,你必須告訴我你要怎麼做?你要做的是什麼？你要如何達成？將這套流程將從頭貫徹到尾 你還必須告訴我試行結果你要能和真實的世界連接起來舉例而言如果你提到我聽過的公司或是你業務中的基本項目我需要全盤瞭解.讓我能去想像提出證明,或任何能證實已經有人認可該項目或有其他外部的證明可能是銷量，或是得了獎可能是之前已經有人做過也可能是你的原型試驗效果很好無論如何,我需要看到證明來背書你所說不是只有你自己在想而是有其他人也這麼認為或有實物可以證明你說的合理再者,我所尋求的是利基而且是可信的利基所以有兩個方面其一是有利可圖,其二是這個利要實際可達成有利可圖的意思,是你必須告訴我你將衝刺五年,每年賺進一百萬元嗯,這個利基並不高但你如果跟我說,你每年要賺進十億元那就不太實際所以,兩個方面都必須兼顧 另外,有很多事會讓我不感興趣使我的情緒指數下降你必須要移除這些可能性舉例來說,你說的內容我早就知道是不切實際像是「我們沒有競爭對手，沒人做過這樣的新產品」可能我早就知道有人做過所以一旦你說沒人做過,碰! 你就完了我開始會對你說的話打對折任何讓我思考或是不瞭解的事使我必須在腦海中打轉的事都會打斷報告的連貫性所以,你必須要像對待六年級的學生一樣按步就班的說明,但不能屈居於我要做到這樣很難但如果你能做到,那就會非常順利還有,不能出現前後矛盾如果你說X、Y 或Z的銷售額是一千萬元可是下一張投影片,或五張之後,數據變成五百萬元當然,可能一個數代表毛利一個數代表淨利但我只想看到合理的數字最後要注意的像是錯誤、錯字或其他愚蠢的過失,或一條莫名出現的線這些都表示,如果你連報告都做不好你怎麼能經營一間公司？以上就是所有該注意的要點了 因此,最好的提案方式就是找出我們較好的一面觀摩已經做過這行的人我們來看看這行最成功的科技執行長看他們是怎麼提案的這是比爾‧蓋茲的PowerPoint報告蓋茲在介紹Windows的新功能這是正確的PowerPoint報告方式嗎?你覺得呢?不! 你覺得誰才是我們該模仿的對象？噢,真好笑！這是另一位巨人同意嗎？對,是賈伯斯(Steve Jobs)你要追求一種絕對—這是報告的禪境,對吧？他就在這,一個小個頭,穿著黑色牛仔褲站在一個空蕩的舞台上你會把目光放在哪裡?放在他身上! 賈伯斯身上! 所以,你了解到把所有好的點,一長串都列出來,很棒!不,這樣不好一長串的列點很糟怎麼才好? 簡短的要點但你知道嗎比簡短的要點更好的,就是沒有列點給我標題就好所以你知道嗎賈伯斯用了多少個要點和標題?基本上為零你要怎麼做?最好的方式—圖片. 只要一張簡單的圖看著影像,一張圖片勝過千言萬語你看著影像,看過之後,你就會完全臣服然後你的注意力會回到我身上注意到我,還有為何我是個這麼棒的傢伙還有你為什麼應該投資我為何整件事聽起來都很合理如此看來,我們只有很短暫的時間 讓我們把你需要在提案中呈現的東西一起順一次首先,不要做冗長標題的投影片不要盡講些五四三的不要說「我將誰和誰提案、今天幾月幾號」這種話我知道日期,我知道我是誰,我也知道你要提案這些我都不想聽你只要給我公司的LOGO我看到LOGO,那就會和我的大腦產生聯結然後我再回到你身上,將注意力放在你身上你要做的,給我一個快速15到30秒的介紹,抓住我的注意力然後快速地概述你的業務這不是五分鐘的提案,這只需要兩句話「我們為X、Y、Z市場打造了新產品」或「我們販售服務幫助某人做某事」.像這樣的話這就像是拼圖盒外面的圖案讓我瞭解其中的脈絡讓我獲得整件事的主要架構就是所有你想要表達的東西這也能讓我把其他你所說過的事給連結起來 就像這樣,讓我瞭解事情的始末秀出你的管理團隊如果你有經驗,或你之前做過這行是會有所幫助的我還要知道市場—市場的大小為何這個市場值得耕耘?我要知道你的產品,這非常重要但這不是個產品提案或銷售提案我不想知道所有的細節及其他瑣碎的事情我只想知道，它到底是什麼？如果是個網站,秀出一個網站的畫面不要做現場的展示記住,千萬不要做現場的展示預先做好示範帶,或用一些方法來讓我了解為何人們會花錢買這樣東西 接下來,我想知道的—現在我知道你要賣的是什麼告訴我你要如何靠它賺錢每賣出X,你會獲利Y,你做的服務是Z我要知道你的營利模式是以單位為基礎或是視你實際所賣出的產品我要知道你將這東西賣給誰以顧客的立場來看我還要知道你是否有任何人脈可以特別幫助你無論是你認識某個經銷商或者你有特定的供應商夥伴只要有證據說明顯現出你不是孤軍奮戰 但每個人都有競爭對手從來沒有一間公司是沒有競爭對手的即使這個競爭是以傳統的方式去做某件事我都要知道你確切的競爭對手為何這才能幫助我判斷你要如何切入目前的運作中然後我要知道你有什麼過人之處 如果我了解你競爭對手的作法你要如何預防競爭對手吞掉你的市場?而以上全部都和財務概況有關你必須有財務報告不然你無法做創投提案我要看到三年前,或一、二年前的報表或從你的企業開始存在以來的所有報表以及未來三年、四年或五年的報表五年有點太多,四年可能比較合理我還要知道你提出的商業模式在產品的基礎上,如何轉換為公司模式還有新產品的銷售量將有多少你的每個新產品有X利潤我要知道驅使銷售的動力何在我們今年將會有一千個客戶明年會有一萬個且我們的盈收將會不斷攀升到某一個層級這讓我能清楚看出未來幾年內我投資報酬的整體藍圖我還要知道你從我這裡拿到的錢如何能幫助你達成目標你是否要在中國開設海外工廠或是將所有的錢投入銷售與行銷或者你要前往大溪地,或其他地方 然後問題來了這是你要求實際獲得的金額你需要五百萬元. 那我該如何評定這個金額？投資十萬賺回兩百萬你目前已籌到多少?有誰投資?我希望你自己也有投資因為我是跟進投資如果連你都沒投資,那我為何要投資？所以我要知道你是否有朋友或家人或金主已經投入資金,或你曾有很多創投經驗到目前為止,資本結構如何？最後,如果以上都做到了你已交待了所有的細節你還是要將話題帶入結論這會是那支火箭向上衝刺的時刻所以希望之前所有一切都很順利順利、順利、還要更順利而且你所說的一切都讓我動心一切都合理我心裡也想著「這是很棒的提案」 然後你將我的視線帶回你的公司LOGO螢幕上只放著LOGO然後我看著LOGO,嗯,很好我回頭看你,沒有其他要看的東西了,對嘛？然後你要開始總結,把一切綜合起來給我一個最終的...碰(驚喜)！用最後的提案把我射入太空在處理這套提案的過程中你如何記得所有順序和該做的事?你已注意到我沒有盯著螢幕看,對嗎?這個房間的螢幕,是設在我的背後我想看也看不到那我又怎麼知道進行到哪了我的面前有台筆電但你看著我,還看著螢幕你認為我在看什麼?你覺得我有在看螢幕嗎？沒有，其實我在看一個特別版本的PowerPoint它會預先秀出下一張投影片,還有上一張還有我的筆記—所以,我能清楚掌握情況PowerPoint已將這個功能內建到每一套PowerPoint軟體裡如果你是使用蘋果的Keynote,就有更好的版本能用另外,還有一套程式叫Ovation你可以向Adobe購買,去年夏天才剛推出的內含能幫助你控制全程的計時器而且讓你清楚掌握現況 現在,我該做讓你飛上月球的總結了,對吧？我通常會給出10個最重要的秘訣,但現在沒有時間了所以,這裡是我的五個報告秘訣:第五、永遠使用報告模式或Ovation,或其他報告工具因為那能讓你清楚報告的確切走向還能讓你按部就班我們就能準時、完整地結束報告第四、永遠使用遙控器你有看到我碰電腦嗎？沒有.為什麼？因為我用的是這支遙控器永遠使用遙控器第三、講義的資料要和你的提案不同如果你遵守這點建議,你將會游刃有餘禪意十足.這對傳遞你的個人特質很好用並能讓聽者的情緒受到渲染但這不太適用於講義講義是要提供更多資訊的因為講義要能在你不在時替代你第二、不要唸稿你能想像嗎,「你應投資我的公司」「因為這是一個好公司」這樣是行不通的. 不要念稿.最重要的秘訣來了:絕對不要看螢幕你要和你的聽眾作一個連結你要建立的是一對一的連結螢幕應該在你的視線後方輔助你的報告,而非取代你的角色這就是向創投提案的要訣"
