Talk	en	zh-tw
david_bismark_e_voting_without_fraud	So there are a few things that bring us humans together in the way that an election does. We stand in elections; we vote in elections; we observe elections. Our democracies rely on elections. We all understand why we have elections, and we all leave the house on the same day to go and vote. We cherish the opportunity to have our say, to help decide the future of the country. The fundamental idea is that politicians are given mandate to speak for us, to make decisions on our behalf that affect us all. Without that mandate, they would be corrupt. Well unfortunately, power corrupts, and so people will do lots of things to get power and to stay in power, including doing bad things to elections. You see, even if the idea of the election is perfect, running a countrywide election is a big project, and big projects are messy. Whenever there is an election, it seems like something always goes wrong, someone tries to cheat, or something goes accidentally awry — a ballot box goes missing here, chads are left hanging over here. To make sure as few things as possible go wrong, we have all these procedures around the election. So for example, you come to the polling station, and a poll station worker asks for your ID before giving you a ballot form and asking you to go into a voting booth to fill out your vote. When you come back out, you get to drop your vote into the ballot box where it mixes with all the other votes, so that no one knows how you voted. Well, what I want us to think about for a moment is what happens after that, after you drop your vote into the ballot box. And most people would go home and feel sure that their vote has been counted, because they trust that the election system works. They trust that election workers and election observers do their jobs and do their jobs correctly. The ballot boxes go to counting places. They're unsealed and the votes are poured out and laboriously counted. Most of us have to trust that that happens correctly for our own vote, and we all have to trust that that happens correctly for all the votes in the election. So we have to trust a lot of people. We have to trust a lot of procedures. And sometimes we even have to trust computers. So imagine hundreds of millions of voters casting hundreds of millions of votes, all to be counted correctly and all the things that can possibly go wrong causing all these bad headlines, and you cannot help but feel exhausted at the idea of trying to make elections better. Well in the face of all these bad headlines, researchers have taken a step back and thought about how we can do elections differently. They've zoomed out and looked at the big picture. And the big picture is this: elections should be verifiable. Voters should be able to check that their votes are counted correctly, without breaking election secrecy, which is so very important. And that's the tough part. How do we make an election system completely verifiable while keeping the votes absolutely secret? Well, the way we've come up with uses computers but doesn't depend on them. And the secret is the ballot form. And if you look closely at these ballot forms, you'll notice that the candidate list is in a different order on each one. And that means, if you mark your choices on one of them and then remove the candidate list, I won't be able to tell from the bit remaining what your vote is for. And on each ballot form there is this encrypted value in the form of this 2D barcode on the right. And there's some complicated cryptography going on in there, but what's not complicated is voting with one of these forms. So we can let computers do all the complicated cryptography for us, and then we'll use the paper for verification. So this is how you vote. You get one of these ballot forms at random, and then you go into the voting booth, and you mark your choices, and you tear along a perforation. And you shred the candidate list. And the bit that remains, the one with your marks — this is your encrypted vote. So you let a poll station worker scan your encrypted vote. And because it's encrypted, it can be submitted, stored and counted centrally and displayed on a website for anyone to see, including you. So you take this encrypted vote home as your receipt. And after the close of the election, you can check that your vote was counted by comparing your receipt to the vote on the website. And remember, the vote is encrypted from the moment you leave the voting booth, so if an election official wants to find out how you voted, they will not be able to. If the government wants to find out how you voted, they won't be able to. No hacker can break in and find out how you voted. No hacker can break in and change your vote, because then it won't match your receipt. Votes can't go missing because then you won't find yours when you look for it. But the election magic doesn't stop there. Instead, we want to make the whole process so transparent that news media and international observers and anyone who wants to can download all the election data and do the count themselves. They can check that all the votes were counted correctly. They can check that the announced result of the election is the correct one. And these are elections by the people, for the people. So the next step for our democracies are transparent and verifiable elections. Thank you. (Applause)	有幾件事是選舉期間大家都會做的事我們選舉時發表立場、投票、觀察選情我們的民主仰賴選舉我們都明白為何需要選舉我們都會在選舉當天出門投出神聖的一票我們珍惜自己發聲的機會、決定自己國家未來的機會最基本的概念就是，政治家被賦予任務，替我們發聲、為我們作出會影響我們的決定如果沒有任務的交付，就會腐敗 但不幸的是，權力會產生腐敗所以人們做出一些事來獲得權力、持續保有權力包括選舉時做些卑鄙手段所以，即使選舉這概念非常完美一個全國的選舉規模龐大規模大就亂只要有選舉好像一定會出差錯一樣有人作弊、總有事情不符預期—票箱遺失、候選人畫記不清楚等等 為儘可能確保事情不出錯我們選舉有很多過程比方說，你來到投票所選舉工作人員檢查你的身份證才會給你選票然後要你走進投票間填寫你的選票當你走出投票間，將選票投入票箱和其他人的選票混在一起藉此就沒人知道你投了誰 那我要各位想一下接下來會發生什麼事在選票投進票箱後很多人就回家確信他們的選票會被計算因為他們信任選舉制度他們信任選舉工作人員、監票員有正確做好他們的工作票箱會送到指定地點清算拆封後倒出之後人工計算我們大多數人都信任自己的選票正確無誤被算入我們必須相信過程會正確無誤所有選票都正確計算我們得相信很多人哪我們得相信這些過程有時候還得相信電腦所以，想像成千上萬的選民投出成千上萬的選票都必須正確計算這麼多事都可能出錯導致這些頭條的出現你一定會覺得，讓選舉過程更完善這過程很難達成 看到這些糟糕的頭條新聞已經有人重新研究、思考要如何規劃選舉他們往後退一步，重審大局大局就是：選舉應該要能核對選民應該要能檢查自己的選票是否以正確算入卻又不打破不記名原則因為這原則很重要而且很難達成我們要如何讓整個選舉系統能夠核對同時不破壞保密原則？ 我們想到的方法就是使用電腦但不依賴它們秘密就是選票設計你看看這些選票你會注意到候選人名單每張顯示的都不一樣這表示，你選好心中的候選人後私下候選人名單其他人將完全看不出你選了誰每張選票都有加密用這個二維條碼右邊這裡條碼中隱含了複雜的密碼學唯一不複雜的就是使用選票的方法我們可以讓電腦幫我們用複雜的密碼學但用紙張做為核對 這就是投票方式你隨機拿了選票進入投票間畫下你的候選人撕下另一半將候選人名單撕碎剩下的部份，你填寫的部份就是已經加密的票之後交給工作人員掃描你那加密的票因為已經加密選票可以送出、儲存、中央計算選票並公告於網路上讓人人都可以觀看你可以帶走這張加密的選票作為收據選舉結束後你可以檢查選票是否被算入了只要用手上的收據比對網站上的選票即可記得，選票是加密的從你離開投票間那刻所以，如果選舉工作人員想知道你投誰是不可能的如果政府想知道你投給誰是不可能的連駭客也無法查出你投給誰駭客無法駭進系統竄改選票因為如此的話就與收據不符選票不會不見因為到時候若找不到就能發現了 但選舉的魔法不止於此我門希望能做的整個選舉過程的透明化及是新聞媒體、全世界觀望的所有人都能下載選舉數據然後自己做計算可以自己檢查選票是否正確計算可以檢查選舉結果的宣布是否正確這樣的選舉才是由人民而選、為人民而選所以民主的下一步就是透明化、可驗證的選舉 謝謝 (掌聲)
