Talk	en	zh-tw
david_pogue_on_cool_phone_tricks	"I'm the weekly tech critic for the New York Times. I review gadgets and stuff. And mostly what good dads should be doing this time of year is nestling with their kids and decorating the Christmas tree. What I'm mostly doing this year is going on cable TV and answering the same question: ""What are the tech trends for next year?"" And I'm like, ""Didn't we just go through this last year?"" But I'm going to pick the one that interests me most, and that is the completed marriage of the cell phone and the Internet. You know, I found that volcano on Google Images, not realizing how much it makes me look like the cover of Dianetics. (Laughter) Anyway, this all started a few years ago, when they started carrying your voice over the Internet rather than over a phone line, and we've come a long way since that. But that was interesting in itself. This is companies like Vonage. Basically you take an ordinary telephone, you plug it into this little box that they give you and the box plugs into your cable modem. Now, it works just like a regular phone. So you can pick up the phone, you hear a dial tone, but its just a fake-out. It's a WAV file of a dial tone, just to reassure you that the world hasn't ended. It could be anything. It could be salsa music or a comedy routine — it doesn't matter. The little box has your phone number. So that's really cool — you can take it to London or Siberia, and your next door neighbor can dial your home number and your phone will ring, because it's got everything in the box. They've got every feature known to man in there, because adding a new feature is just software. And as a result of Voice Over IP — I hate that term — Voice Over Internet — land-line home-phone service has gone down 30 percent in the last three years. I mean, no self-respecting college kid has home phone service anymore. This is what college kids are more likely to have. It's the most popular VOIP service in the world: It's Skype. It's a free program you download for your Mac or PC, and you make free phone calls anywhere in the world The downside is that you have to wear a headset like a nerd. It's not your phone — it's your computer. But nonetheless, if you're a college kid and you have no money, believe me, this is better than trying to use your cell phone. It's really cute seeing middle-aged people like me, try out Skype for the first time, which is usually when their kid goes away for a semester abroad. They don't want to pay the international fees, so they're like, ""Timmy! Is that you?"" (Laughter) It's really cute. But I — at least it was when I did it — (Laughter) I think where VOIP is really going to get interesting is when they start putting it on cell phones. Imagine if you had an ordinary cell phone, and any time you were in a wireless hotspot — free calls anywhere in the world, never pay the cellular company a nickel. It'd be really, really cool — and yet, even though the technology for this has been available for five years, incredibly, the number of standard cell phones offered by US carriers with free VOIP is zero! I can't figure out why! (Laughter) Actually, I need to update that. There's one now. And it's so interesting that I thought I would tell you about it. It comes from T-Mobile. And I am not paid by T-Mobile. I'm not plugging T-Mobile. The New York Times has very rigid policies about that. Ever since that Jayson Blair jerk ruined it for all of us. (Laughter) Basically, the reason you haven't heard about this program is because it was introduced last year on June 29. Does anyone remember what else happened on June 29 last year? It was the iPhone. The iPhone came out that day. I'm like, can you imagine being the T-Mobile PR lady? You know? ""Hi, we have an announcement to — WAH!!!"" (Laughter) But it's actually really, really cool. You have a choice of phones, and we're not talking smartphones — ordinary phones, including a Blackberry, that have Wi-Fi. The deal is, any time you're in a Wi-Fi hotspot, all your calls are free. And when you're out of the hotspot, you're on the regular cellular network. You're thinking, ""Well, how often am I in a hotspot?"" The answer is, ""All the time!"" Because they give you a regular wireless router that works with the phone, for your house. Which is really ingenious, because we all know that T-Mobile is the most pathetic carrier. They have coverage like the size of my thumbnail. (Laughter) But it's a hundred million dollars to put up one of those towers. Right? They don't have that kind of money. Instead they give each of us a seven-dollar-and-95-cent box. They're like a stealth tower installation program. We're putting it in our homes for them! Anyway, they have Wi-Fi phones in Europe. But the thing that T-Mobile did that nobody's done before is, when you're on a call an you move from Wi-Fi into cellular range, the call is handed off in mid-syllable, seamlessly. I'll show you the advanced technologies we use at the New York Times to test this gear. This is me with a camcorder on a phone going like this. (Laughter) As I walk out of the house from my Wi-Fi hotspot into the cellular network on a call with my wife — look at the upper left. That's the Wi-Fi signal. (Video): Jennifer Pogue: Hello? David Pogue: Hi babes, it's me. JP: Oh, hi darling, how are you? DP: You're on Wi-Fi. How does it sound? JP: Oh, it sounds pretty good. Now, I'm leaving the house. DP: I'm going for a walk — do you mind? JP: No not at all. I'm having a great day with the kids. DP: What are you guys doing? Right there! It just changed to the cellular tower in mid-call. I don't know why my wife says I never listen to her. I don't get that. (Laughter) The bottom line is that the boundaries, because of the Internet plus cell phone, are melting. The cool thing about the T-Mobile phones is that although switching technologies is very advanced, the billing technology has not caught up. So what I mean is that you can start a call in your house in the Wi-Fi hotspot, you can get in your car and talk until the battery's dead — which would be like 10 minutes — (Laughter) And the call will continue to be free. Because they don't, they haven't — well, no, wait! Not so fast. It also works the other way. So if you start a call on your cellular network and you come home, you keep being billed. Which is why most people with this service get into the habit of saying, ""Hey, I just got home. Can I call you right back?"" Now you get it. It's also true that if you use one of these phones overseas, it doesn't know what Internet hotspot you're in. On the Internet nobody knows you're a dog, right? Nobody knows you're in Pakistan. You can make free unlimited calls home to the US with these phones. So, very, very interesting. This is another favorite of mine. Does anyone here have a working cell phone that's on, with coverage, who can make a call right now without a lot of fussing? OK. Would you call me please right now? [Phone number given.] And don't you all call me at three a.m. asking me to fix your printer. (Laughter) I have two cell phones, so this going to be very odd, if it works. I should know not to do technology demos in front of an audience. It's just, like, absurd. This one is going off. And — oh, I have the ringer off. Tsh! Great. Anyway, this one is also going off. So they're both ringing at the same time. Excuse me one second. Hello? Oh. Where are you calling from? No, no just kidding. There he is. Thank you very much for doing that. I didn't even know it was you — I was looking at this guy. Oh great! Yeah. Yeah you can all stop calling now! (Laughter) All right! We've made the point. All right. Ringer off. Everyone wants in on the action. (Laughter) So this is Grand Central at work — it's a — oh, for gods sake! (Laughter) I have your numbers now! (Laughter) You will pay. Grand Central is this really brilliant idea where they give you a new phone number, and then at that point one phone number rings all your phones at once. Your home phone, your work phone, your cell phone, your yacht phone (this is the EG crowd). (Laughter) The beauty of that is you never miss a call. I know a lot of you are like, ""Ooh, I don't want to be reached at any hour."" But the beauty is it's all going through the internet, so you get all of these really cool features — like you can say, I want these people to be able to call me only during these hours. And I want these people to hear this greeting, ""Hi boss, I'm out making us both some money. Leave a message."" And then your wife calls, and, ""Hi honey, leave me a message."" Very, very customizable. Google bought it, and they've been working on it for a year. They're supposed to come out with it very shortly in a public method. By the way, this is something that really bothers me. I don't know if you realize this. When you call 411 on your cell phone, they charge you two bucks. Did you know that? It's an outrage. I actually got a photograph of the Verizon employee right there. I'm going to tell you how to avoid that now. What you're going to use is Google Cellular. It's totally free — there's not even ads. If you know how to send a text message, you can get the same information for free. I'm about to change your life. So here's me doing it. You send a text message to the word ""Google,"" which turns out to be 46645. Leave off the last ""e"" for savings. Anyway, so lets say you need a drugstore near Chicago. You type ""pharmacy Chicago,"" or the zip code. You hit send, and in five seconds, they will send you back the two closest drugstores, complete with name address and phone number. Here it comes. And it's already written down — so, like, if you're driving, you don't have to do one of these things, ""Uh huh, uh huh, uh huh."" It works with weather, too. You can say ""Weather,"" and the name of the city you're going to travel to. And then in five seconds, they send you back the complete weather forecast for that town. Shortly I'll tell you why I was in Milan. Here we go. And those are just the beginning. These are all the different things that you can text to Google and they will — yeah! You're all trying to write this down. That's cute. I do have an email address. You can just ask me. It's absolutely phenomenal. The only downside is that it requires you to know how to text — send a text message. Nobody over 40 knows how to do that. So I'm going to teach you something even better. This is called Google Info. They've just launched this voice-activated version of the same thing. It's speech recognition like you've never heard before. So lets say I'm in Monterey, and I want what? I want to find what? Bagels. OK. Google: Say the business and the city and state. DP: Bagels, Monterey, California. I got the Chinese line. (Laughter) Google: Bagels, Monterey, California. Top eight results: Number one, Bagel Bakery on El Dorado Street. To select number one, you can press one or say ""number one."" Number two: Bagel Bakery, commissary department. Number Two. Number Two. Two. (Laughter) Why do I listen to people in the audience? Well anyway — oh! Here we go! Google: ... commissary department on McClellan Avenue, Monterey. I'll connect you, or say ""details,"" or ""go back."" DP: He's connecting me! He doesn't even tell me the phone number. He's just connecting me directly. It's like having a personal valet. Google: Hold on. (Laughter) DP: Hi, could I have 400 with a schmear? No, no, no — just kidding, no no. So anyway, you never even find out the number. It's just so amazing. And it has incredible, incredible accuracy. This is even more amazing. Put this in your speed dial. This you can ask by voice any question. Who won the 1958 World Series? What's the recipe for a certain cocktail? It's absolutely amazing — and they text you back the answer. I tried this this morning just to make sure it's still alive. ""Which actors have played James Bond?"" They text me back this: ""Sean Connery, George Lazenby, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton, Pierce Brosnan, Daniel Craig."" Right! And then I was trying to pretend I was like a Valley girl. I'm like, ""What's the word that means you know, like, when the sun, the moon and the earth are, like, all in a line?"" Just to see how the recognition was. They texted me back, ""It's called a syzygy."" Which I knew, because it's the word that won me the Ohio spelling bee in 1976. You know, there's a lot of people wondering, ""How on earth are they going to make money doing this?"" And the answer is: look at the last line. They put this teeny-weeny little ad, about 10 characters long. And a lot of people also want to know, ""How does it work? How can it be so good? It's as though there is a human being on the other end of the line."" Because there is one! They have 10,000 people who are being paid 20 cents per answer. As you can imagine, it's college kids and old people. That's who can afford to do that. But it's a human being on the line. And it's gotten me out of so many tough positions like, ""When's the last flight out of Chicago?"" You know. It's just absolutely amazing. Another thing that really bothers me about cell phones today — this is probably my biggest pet peeve in all of technology. When I call to leave you a message, I get 15 seconds of instructions from a third-grade teacher on Ambien! (Laughter) ""To page this person ... "" Page? What is this, 1975? Nobody has pagers anymore. ""You may begin speaking at the tone. When you have finished recording, you may hang up."" No! (Laughter) And then it gets worse: when I call to retrieve my messages, first of all: ""You have 87 messages. To listen to your messages ... "" Why else am I calling? (Laughter) Of course I want to listen to the messages! (Laughter) Oh! You all have cell phones too. So last year I went to Milan, Italy, and I got to speak to an audience of cellular executives from 200 countries around the world. And I said as a joke — as a joke, I said, ""I did the math. Verizon has 70 million customers. If you check your voicemail twice a day, that's 100 million dollars a year. I bet you guys are doing this just to run up our airtime, aren't you?"" No chuckle. They're like this — (Laughter) Where is the outrage, people? Rise up! (Laughter) Sorry. I'm not bitter. (Laughter) So now I'm going to tell you how to get out of that. There are these services that transcribe your voicemail into text. And they send it either to your email or as text messages to your phone. It is a life-changer. And by the way, they don't always get the words right, because it's over the phone and all that. So they attach the audio file at the bottom of the email so you can listen to double-check. The services are called things like Spinvox, Phonetag — this is the one I use — Callwave. A lot of people say, ""How are they doing this? I don't really want people listening in to my calls."" The executives at these companies told me, ""Well we use a proprietary B-to-B, best-of-breed, peer-to-peer soluti — "" you know. I think basically it's like these guys in India with headsets, you know, listening in. The reason I think that is that on the first day I tried one of these services, I got two voicemail messages. One was from a guy named Michael Stevenson, which shouldn't be that hard to transcribe, and it was misspelled. The other was from my video producer at the Times, whose name is Vijaiy Singh, with the silent 'h'. Nailed that one. (Laughter) So you be the judge. (Laughter) Anyway, this service, Callwave, promises that it's all software — nobody is listening to your messages. And they also promise that they're going to transcribe only the gist of your messages. (Laughter) So I thought I'd see how that goes. This is me testing it out. (Video): Hello, this is Michael. Hope you're doing well. I'm fine here. Everything's good. Hey, I was walking along the street and the sky was blue. And your daughter broke her leg at soccer practice. I'm going to have a sandwich for lunch. She's in room — emergency room 53W. OK, talk to you later — bye. (Laughter) I love my job. (Laughter) So a couple minutes later, this I got by email. It's a very good transcription. But a couple minutes after that, I got the text message version. Now remember, a text message can only be 160 characters long. So it had better be the gist of the gist, right? I'm not kidding you. The message said, ""Was walking along the street"" and ""sky was blue"" and ""emergency""! (Laughter) What the f — ? (Laughter) Well I guess that was the gist. (Laughter) And lastly, I just have to talk about this one. This is my favorite of all time. It's called Popularitydialer.com. Basically, you're going to go on some iffy date, or a potentially bad meeting. So you go and you type in your phone number, and at the exact minute where you want to be called — (Laughter) And at that moment your phone will ring. And you're like, ""I'm sorry. I've got to take this."" The really beautiful thing is, you know how when somebody's sitting next to you, sometimes they can sort of hear a little bit of the caller. So they give you a choice of what you want to hear on the other end. Here's the girlfriend. Phone: Hey you, what's going on? DP: I'm kinda, like, giving a talk right now. Phone: Well, that's good. DP: What are you doing? Phone: I was just wondering what you were up to. DP: Right, I can't really talk right now. This is the — I love this — the boss call. Phone: Hey, this is Mr. Johnson calling from the office. DP: Oh, hi, sir. Phone: Did you complete that thing about a month ago? That photocopier training? DP: Oh — sorry I forgot. Phone: Yeah, well so when was the last time you used the photocopier? DP: It was like three weeks ago. Phone: Well, I don't know if you heard, you might have heard from Lenny, but — (Laughter) I think the biggest change when Internet met phone was with the iPhone. Not my finest moment in New York Times journalism. It was when in the fall of 2006, I explained why Apple would never do a cell phone. (Laughter) I looked like a moron. However, my logic was good, because — I don't know if you realize this, but — until the iPhone came along, the carriers — Verizon, AT&T, Cingular — held veto power over every aspect of every design of every phone. I know the people who worked on the Treo. They went around to these carriers and said, ""Look at these cool features."" And Verizon is like, ""Hmm, no. I don't think so."" It was not very conducive to innovation. What I didn't anticipate was that Steve Jobs went around and said, ""Tell you what — I'll give you a five-year exclusive if you'll let me design this phone in peace — and you won't even see it till it's done."" Actually, even so, he was turned down by Verizon and others. Finally Cingular said OK. I'm going to talk about the effect of the iPhone. Please don't corner me at the party tonight and go, ""What are you? An Apple fan boy?"" - you know. I'm not. You can see what I said about it. It's a flawed masterpiece. It's got bad things and good things. Lets all acknowledge that right now. But it did change a few things. The first thing it changed was that all those carriers saw that they sold 10 million of these things in a year. And they said, ""Oh my gosh, maybe we've been doing it wrong. Maybe we should let phone designers design the phones."" (Applause) Another thing was that it let 10 million people, for the first time, experience being online all the time. Not using these 60-dollar-a-month cellular cards for their laptops. I don't understand why we're not there yet. When I'm an old man, I'm going to tell my grandchildren, ""When I was your age, if I wanted to check my email, I used to drive around town looking for a coffee shop. I did!"" (Laughter) ""We had wireless base stations that could broadcast — yay, about 150 feet across."" (Laughter) It's absurd. We have power outlets in every room of every building. We have running water. What's the problem? Anyway — but this teaches people what it's like. You have to go to YouTube and type in ""iPhone Shuffle."" This guy did a mock video of one that's one inch square, like the real iPod Shuffle. It's like, ""It only has one button. Touch it and it dials a number at random."" (Laughter) ""Who the hell is this?"" (Laughter) But the other thing it did is it opened up this idea of an app store. It downloads right to the phone. And you can use the tilt sensor to steer this car using this game. These programs can use all the components of the iPhone — the touch screen. This is the Etch-A-Sketch program — the theme of EG 2008. You know how you erase it? Of course. You shake it. Right, of course. We shake it to erase, like this. They have 10,000 of these programs. This is the translator program. They have every language in the world. You type in what you want, and it gives you the translation. This is amazing. This is Midomi. A song is running through your head — you sing it into the thing: do do do do do, da da da da da da, da dum ... OK, you tap, ""Done"" and it will find out the song and play it for you. I know. It's insane, right? This is Pandora. Free Internet radio. Not just free Internet radio — you type in a band or a song name. It will immediately play you that song or that band. It has a thumbs-up and a thumbs-down. You say if you like this song or not. If you like it, it tries another song on you from a different band, with the same instrumentation, vocals, theme and tempo. If you like that one, or don't like it, you do thumbs-up and thumbs-down. Over time it tailors the songs so that it completely stops playing bad songs. It eventually only plays songs you like. This is Urbanspoon. You're in a city. It knows from GPS where you're standing. You want to find a place to eat. You shake it. It proposes a restaurant. It gives you the price, and the location and ratings. Video: I'm not going all the way to Flushing. Anyway, just amazing, amazing things. Of course, its not just about the iPhone. The iPhone broke the dyke, the wall. But now it's everybody else. So Google has done their own Android operating system that will soon be on handsets — phones from 34 companies. Touch screen — very, very nice. Also with its own app store, where you can download programs. This is amazing. In the wake of all this, Verizon, the most calcified, corporate, conservative carrier of all, said, ""You can use any phone you want on our network."" I love the Wired headline: Pigs Fly, Hell Freezes Over and Verizon Opens Up Its Network — No. Really. So everything is changing. We've entered a new world of innovation, where the cell phone becomes your laptop, customized the way you want it. Every cell phone is unique. There is software that you can add on. Can I do one more one-minute song? Thank you. (Applause) Just to round it up — this is the new Apple Power Music Stand. It's only three pounds, or 12 if you install Microsoft Office. (Laughter) Sorry, that was mean. This is a song I did for the New York Times website as a music video. Ladies and gentlemen, for seven blissful hours it was the number one video on YouTube. (To the tune of ""My Way"") And now the end is near. I'm sick to death of this old cell phone. Bad sound, the signal's weak, the software stinks. A made-in-Hell phone. I've heard there's something new — a million times more rad than my phone. I too will join the cult. I want an iPhone. Concerns — I have a few. It's got some flaws; we may just face it. No keys, no memory card, the battery's sealed — you can't replace it. But God, this thing is sweet. A multitouch, iPod, Wi-Fi phone. You had me from, ""Hello."" I want an iPhone. I want to touch its precious screen. I want to wipe the smudges clean. I want my friends to look and drool. I want to say, ""Look — now I'm cool"" I stood in line and I'll get mine. I want an iPhone. For what is a man? What has he got? If not iPhone, then he's got squat. It's all the things a phone should be. Who cares if it's AT&T? I took a stand, paid half a grand! And I got an iPhone! (Applause) Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我是紐約時報每週的科技評論專欄作家，我會仔細觀察各種新奇的電子產品。大部分的好爸爸，在每年的這個時候，都是在家裡照顧孩子，裝飾聖誕樹；而我要做的卻是上有線電視的節目，回答相同的問題。「明年的科技趨勢會是什麼？」我會回答：「我們不是去年才講過這個嗎？」 但我今天要講的是我覺得最有趣的東西，它結合了行動電話與網路。我在Google上找到了這張火山照片，但我沒注意到這照片會讓我看起來像是戴尼提(心靈叢書)的封面。 (笑聲) 剛才所提到的東西在幾年前就開始研發，當時有一種技術可以透過網路打電話，而不用透過電話，基於這項技術又持續開發了一段時間。但這項技術本身就已經很有趣了，像是Vonage就有提供這種服務。你可以拿一具一般的電話，插進他們給你的這個小盒子裡，再把小盒子連上你的數據機，就跟平常打電話一樣了。你把電話拿起來，就會聽到撥號音，但那個撥號音是假的，只不過是撥號音的WAV檔案，它要讓你知道世界末日還沒有到，你可以更改這個撥號音，可以改成騷莎音樂，也可以改成喜劇音效，什麼都可以。小盒子裡有你的電話號碼，那很酷，因為你可以把盒子帶到倫敦或西伯利亞，你住家的鄰居可以撥打你家裡的電話，然後小盒子就會響，所有東西都放在盒子裡了。他們把所有功能都設計在裡面了，因為增加一個新功能只不過是增加一些軟體而已。 因為VOIP網路電話的興起—我覺得VOIP不好，VOI(internet)比較好—室內電話的服務率在過去三年裡下降了百分之30。走在時代尖端的大學生已經都不使用室內電話了，大學生現在比較喜歡這個，也就是全世界最受歡迎的網路電話：Skype。那是一種免費的程式，你可以下載到自己的電腦裡，然後就可以免費打電話到世界各地去。缺點是你得像個呆瓜一樣戴著耳機，因為你不是用電話打電話，而是用電腦打電話。不管怎樣，如果你是個窮學生，相信我，這絕對比你打手機划算。 看那些像我一樣的中年人第一次嚐試用Skype打電話真的很好玩，這些人大部分都有在國外就學的小孩，他們不想支付昂貴的國際電話費，他們打Skype的時候會像這樣：「提米，是你嗎？」 (笑聲) 真的很好玩！至少我都是這樣做的... (笑聲) 當網路電話和手機結合時，一定會變得更有趣！想想看，你拿著一支一般的手機，只要附近有無線網點，你就可以隨時撥打免費的電話，都不用再繳一分錢給手機公司。那真的、真的太酷了！雖然這個科技已經問世五年了，不可思議吧？...但是美國的手機業者能提供這種免費網路電話的家數是零！真不知道是為什麼！ (笑聲) 這個資料需要更新一下，現在已經有一家了，我一定得告訴你們，因為真的很有趣。那家手機公司叫做T-Mobile，他們沒有付錢給我，我也不是在幫他們打廣告，紐約時報針對這一點可是有嚴格的規定，上次就是傑森．布萊爾(報導作假)這個混蛋把我們害慘了。 (笑聲) 你們之所以沒有聽過這個新技術，是因為這個技術在去年(2007)6月29日才剛剛上市。有誰記得去年6月29日還發生了什麼事嗎？iPhone，iPhone在那天上市。你能想像身為T-Mobile的公關發言小姐的感想嗎？ 「嗨！我們要發佈一項..哇啊啊啊!!!」 (笑聲) 那個技術是真的很酷！你可以選擇自己想要的手機，但我們不是在談智慧手機，而是一般內建有Wi-Fi的手機，包括黑莓機也行。只要附近有Wi-Fi網點，你就可以免費打電話。一旦離開了無線網點區域，就會回復到一般手機的通訊網絡上。你會想：「嗯，我什麼時候會接觸到無線網點呢？」答案是：「無時無刻！」因為他們會給你一個一般的無線路由器放在家裡，這樣就能讓你的手機發揮作用。這真的很聰明，因為我們都知道T-Mobile是最可憐的手機商，他們的覆概率大概就像我的手指甲這麼大。(笑聲)但要建起那種巨大的基地台可是要花上億元，對吧？他們沒有那種資本，但他們可以給我們每人一個7塊9角5分錢的小盒子，就像在蓋一座隱形的基地台一樣。我們是幫他們把基地台放在家裡！ 總之，他們已經在歐洲發行了這種Wi-Fi手機了，他們前所未有的壯舉是，當你從Wi-Fi網路移動到手機網絡時，通話完全不會中斷，可以銜接得天衣無縫。我要播放一段我們在紐約時報測試這玩意兒的影片，我那時就拿著一台攝影機，像這樣對著我的手機照... (笑聲) 當我一邊和我太太通話，一邊走出房門，離開Wi-Fi網點進入到手機網絡時，看看我手機的左上角，那就是Wi-Fi的標誌。 (影片)：珍妮佛：哈囉？ 大衛：嗨，寶貝，是我。 珍妮佛：嗨，親愛的，你好嗎？ 大衛：我現在在用Wi-Fi通話，聽起來還好嗎？ 珍妮佛：聽起來很好。 大衛：現在我要離開房子，出去走走，你不介意吧？ 珍妮佛：不會啊，我正和孩子玩得開心呢... 大衛：你們在玩什麼？ 看這裡！在我們通話的時候，就轉成基地台的訊號了！我真不明白為什麼我太太老是抱怨我不聽她說話... (笑聲) 由於手機加上網路，各國的疆界概念正逐步淡化。關於T-Mobile最棒的事是，即使他們可以做到這麼先進的轉換技術，但他們的收費技術卻還沒有跟上。我的意思是，你可以在家裡用Wi-Fi網點打出電話，然後走到車上說個不停，直到用完電池，那大概是十分鐘左右... (笑聲) 那通電話還是免費的。因為他們還沒有...嗯，不是，別高興得太早，反過來也是一樣。如果你用手機訊號打出電話，就算你走回家裡，還是會持續計費。這就是為什麼購買了這項服務的人，會習慣說出這句話：「嘿，我剛到家，我馬上再回電話給你可以嗎？」現在知道了吧！如果你在國外使用這種電話，它一樣搞不清楚你是在哪個網路底下，在網路上沒人知道你是什麼阿貓阿狗，對吧？沒人知道你是在巴基斯坦，於是你便可以無限暢打免費電話，用這支手機打回美國的家，這真的、真的很有趣！ 這裡還有另一個我的最愛。現在有誰的手機可以通話？就是已經開機、還有訊號、拿起來就可以打的手機？好，你現在可以打給我嗎？你可別在半夜三點打給我，要我去幫你修印表機哦！ (笑聲) 我有二支手機，如果這個展示成功的話，那就怪了！我早就知道不該在觀眾前面做這種科技展示的，看起來就很怪！這支手機會響，噢，我把它關靜音了，噢，好了。這支也會響，現在他們一起響了。抱歉，讓我接個電話，哈囉？噢，你從哪兒打來的？不，我開玩笑的！他就在那兒，謝謝你幫忙打電話，我還不知道是你哩，我還以為是前面這傢伙。噢，好，好了！你們都別再打了！ (笑聲) 好了，大家都看到了吧？好，靜音好了！每個人都想打進來... (笑聲) 這是Grand Central...噢，拜託！ (笑聲) 我有你們的電話囉！ (笑聲) 你們會付出代價的！ Grand Central想出這個好點子，他們先給你一個新的電話號碼，然後，只要有人打這個電話號碼，你所有的電話都會響，包括你家裡的電話、辦公室電話、手機、遊艇上的電話...那是有錢人的玩意兒... (笑聲) 這個好處是你不會漏接電話，但我知道你們有人會說：「噢，我才不要別人時時刻刻都找得到我。」由於這項科技是透過網路來做到的，所以當你使用這個功能時，你可以設定你想在什麼時間接聽什麼人的電話，也可以設定要讓什麼人聽什麼留言指示，「嗨，老闆，我現在外出去幫公司賺錢，請留言。」如果你老婆打來，就用：「親愛的，請留言。」完全依照需求設計。Google把這項科技買下來了，他們也已經研究了一年左右，他們應該很快就能讓這項科技上市。 對了，有件事一直困擾著我，我不知道你們有沒有發現，當你用手機撥411(查號台)時，一通要收你二美金，你知道嗎？這太過份了。這是Verizon員工的照片，我來告訴你們怎麼省下那二塊美金。你要用的工具叫做Google Cellular，那是免費的軟體，也沒有廣告，如果你知道怎麼發簡訊，你就知道怎麼取得一些免費的資訊，這會改變你的生活。這是我的作法：你用簡訊發送""Google""這個字，轉換成數字就是46645，最後一個""e""可以省略不打， 現在，假設你要查芝加哥附近的藥房，你就輸入「芝加哥藥房」或郵遞區號，按下傳送，然後五秒之內，他們就會回傳給你二家最近藥房的名字、住址和電話號碼。來了！全都清清楚楚，所以如果你在開車，你就不用邊開邊說：「嗯..嗯嗯..啊..啊啊..」 這也可以用來查天氣，你只要輸入「天氣」和你要查詢的城市名稱，然後五秒之內，他們就會回傳給你那個城市的天氣預測資訊。待會兒我會告訴你們為什麼我會在米蘭，來了！這些只是開場而已，這些全都是Google提供的簡訊服務—哇！你們全都在抄筆記，真是太好玩了！我有電子郵件耶...跟我要就行了啊...這真是太棒了！唯一的壞處是你得知道怎麼發簡訊，對，發簡訊。超過四十歲的人，沒人知道怎麼發簡訊。 所以我要告訴你們一個更好用的工具，叫做Google Info。他們剛剛才發行這個東西的聲控版，這個工具的聲音辨識能力是你以前沒有看過的。假設說我在蒙特利好了，我會想要什麼？我會去那裡找什麼？貝果，好。 Google:請說出你要去的縣市、城市和要找的店家。 大衛：加州蒙特利市的貝果。我好像接到中文服務了... (笑聲) Google:加州蒙特利市的貝果。前八項搜尋結果：第一，度拉多街上的貝果烘焙屋。要選擇第一個搜尋結果，請按下1或說「第一個」。第二，販賣部的貝果烘焙屋。 第二個...第二個...2... (笑聲) 我為什麼要聽觀眾的？不管了...噢，出來了！ Google:...販賣部是在蒙特利市的麥可里蘭街，現在幫您接通，或者您可以說「詳細內容」或「返回」。 大衛：他現在要幫我接通電話，他還沒告訴我電話號碼哩...就直接幫我打電話了，真像是個私人管家！ Google:請不要掛斷... (笑聲) 大衛：嗨，我要400個奶油起士口味的...不不不，我開玩笑的...所以呢，你連記電話號碼都不用，真是太神奇了！而且非常地準確！還有更神奇的，快把這個號碼記下來吧！你可以打這支電話問任何問題，像是誰贏了1958年的世界聯賽？某種雞尾酒的配方？真的很神奇！他們會用簡訊回覆你的問題。為了確定這個功能還能不能用，我早上還親自試了一下，我問：誰演過007？他們用簡訊回我：史恩．康納萊、喬治．拉森比、羅傑．摩爾、提摩西．達頓、皮爾斯．布洛斯南、丹尼爾．奎格。答對了！然後我假裝我自己是個沒什麼知識的人，我問：「嗯，當太陽、月亮和地球都成一直線的時候，一般人稱之為什麼？」我想測試看看他們的聲音辨識能力，他們回我：「那叫做朔望(syzygy)。」我知道那個字，我就是靠那個字贏得1976年的俄亥俄州拼字比賽的。 很多人會問：「他們提供這種服務，是要怎麼賺錢？」看看最後一行，你就會知道。他們在那裡放了一行大約十個字的小廣告。還有人會問：「他們是怎麼辦到的？怎麼會這麼正確？好像是有一個真人在另一頭接聽一樣。」真的有人在接聽啊！有十萬個人為他們工作，每個答案可以得到20美分的報酬，所以大部分都是大學生和老人家在做這個工作，也只有他們能擔任這種工作。電話裡是真的有人在接聽，所以我幫助我很多在我需要答案的時候，像是：「芝加哥最後一班起飛的飛機是在幾點？」那真的很棒！ 我要講講真正讓我很困擾的手機功能，或許也是在所有科技裡最令我憤怒的功能。當我打電話給某人要留言時，我要先聽個15秒的指示，而且還由一個音調沒什麼起伏的三年級老師唸出來！ (笑聲) 「若要(用BBCall)呼叫對方...」呼叫？現在是1975年嗎？現在還有誰在用BBCall？「請在嗶一聲之後留言，留言完畢請掛斷。」不！ (笑聲) 還有更糟的：當我要聽留言的時候，首先會聽到：「您有87通留言，要聽請按...」不聽我打來幹嘛啊？ (笑聲) 我當然是要聽留言啊！ (笑聲) 噢！你們都有手機嘛！去年，我去了義大利的米蘭，我在那裡發表了一場演講，聽眾全是來自200個國家的手機業者的高階主管。我那時開了一個玩笑，真的是玩笑，我說：「我算了一下，Verizon有七千萬個用戶，如果每個用戶每天聽二次留言，一年就有一億的收入。我猜你們就是想用光我們的通話時間，對吧？」底下完全沒人在笑，他們反而都直點頭... (笑聲) 你們沒看到他們這麼過份嗎？大家起來反抗啊！ (笑聲) 對不起，我太激動了！ (笑聲) 好，我要告訴你們怎麼省錢，有一種服務會把你的留言轉換成文字，然後寄到你的電子信箱或是發簡訊給你，那完全顛覆了現在的作法。噢，對了，他們不是永遠不會打錯字，因為他們聽到的是留言，難免有錯，所以他們會把聲音檔附在郵件下面，你可以重覆再聽一次來檢查文字的正確性。有幾家公司提供這種服務，像是Spinvox、Phonetag—我是用這一家的服務，還有Callvave。很多人問：「他們是怎麼做的？我可不希望有人竊聽我的電話。」這些公司的高階主管告訴我：「我們使用有專利的B2B技術，還有P2P技術...」我想那不就是有幾個印度人在印度戴著耳機聽你的留言嗎？ 我會這樣想是有原因的，因為我第一天測試這種服務的時候，我收到了二通留言，其中一個是從一位叫麥可．史蒂文生的傢伙打來的，我覺得他的名字沒有那麼難拼，但還是拼錯了；另一個則是我在紐約時報的影音製作人，他的名字是Vijaiyh，有一個不發音的h，這個就拼對了。 (笑聲) 你們自己評斷看看... (笑聲) 不管怎樣，Callwave保證，他們的服務全部是由軟體操作，所以不會有人聽到你的留言；他們也保證只會把留言內容裡的重點抄錄下來... (笑聲) 我那時就想要看好不好用，所以我就測試了一下。 哈囉，我是麥可，你還不錯吧？我在這裡很好，每件事都很順心，嘿，我剛在街上散步，天空很藍，你的女兒在練習足球的時候摔斷了腿，我今天中午打算吃個三明治，你女兒的病房，她在53W急診病房。好，下次再聊吧，拜拜。 (笑聲) 我超愛我的工作... (笑聲) 幾分鐘之後，我收到了電子郵件，寫得很詳實，但又過了幾分鐘之後，我收到了簡訊版，各位要知道，簡訊只能容納160個字元，所以只能寫重點，對吧？我不騙你，簡訊上說： 「在街上散步」、「天空很藍」和「急診室」！ (笑聲) 搞什麼？ (笑聲) 我想那就是重點吧... (笑聲) 最後，我得和你們聊聊這個，這是我一直以來的最愛，叫做Popularitydialer.com，有時你不得不去赴某些約會，或是要去參加一個很糟的會議，這時你就可以把你的電話號碼輸入，再輸入某個你想要被電話打斷的時刻... (笑聲) 然後，在那個時點你的電話就會響，你只要說：「抱歉，我得接個電話。」最棒的是，有時候大家會坐得很近，其他人有時會聽到一些對話的內容，所以這個公司讓你可以選擇要不要讓這種電話實際對話。這是女朋友的版本： 電話：嘿，你還好嗎？ 大衛：嗯，我現在在演講。 電話：嗯，那很好啊。 大衛：你在做什麼？ 電話：我就是在想你在做什麼啊... 大衛：我現在不能跟你聊天啦...還有一個，我很愛的版本，老闆的電話。 電話：嘿，我是強生，我從辦公室打來。 大衛：噢，老闆你好。 電話：你完成上個月我們談的事情了嗎？就是影印機訓練的事？ 大衛：噢...抱歉，我忘了！ 電話：好，那你上次用影印機是什麼時候？ 大衛：大概是三個星期以前吧。 電話：嗯，我不知道你聽說了沒有，或許藍尼有跟你提到，不過... (笑聲) 我認為，當網路和電話結合時，最大的改變就是iPhone的出現。不是在我擔任紐約時報記者最得意的那幾年，而是在2006年的秋天，我曾報導為什麼蘋果不出手機， (笑聲) 我看起來像個白痴。但是，我的邏輯很正確，我不知道你們知不知道，但是直到iPhone上市之前，手機系統業者像是Verizon、AT&T、Cingular等，針對每一款手機的每一種功能、每一種設計都具有否決權。我認識在Treo上班的員工，他們會跑到手機系統業者那裡說： 「看看這個超酷的功能。」Verizon會回說：「嗯，不好，我不喜歡。」這種態度不是很有助於創新。我沒料的到是，賈柏斯竟然會跑出來說：「我跟你說，只要你讓我全權設計這支手機，我就給你五年的獨家代理，但在這之前你不能偷看。」即使是這樣，他還是被Verizon和其他系統業者拒絕了，最後只有Cingular說好。 我要來談談iPhone效應，但你們不要在今晚的派對上把我圍住，問我說：「你是怎樣？蘋果迷是吧？」我才不是哩！聽聽看我的說法：這是一個有瑕疵的大師級作品，我們得知道iPhone有優點也有缺點。 但iPhone改變了一些事，第一件事是它讓所有系統業者見識到，iPhone的銷量一年可達一千萬支。他們說：「天啊，或許我們做錯了，我們該讓手機製造商自己設計手機的。」 (掌聲) 另一件事是，它首次讓一千萬個用戶體驗到全時上網的樂趣，而不必用那種插在電腦上一個月六十元的手機卡。我不瞭解為什麼我們現在還辦不到，當我老了之後，我要告訴我的孫子：「我在你這個年紀的時候，如果要看電子郵件，我得開車到處找網咖才能看，真的是這樣！」 (笑聲) 「我們那時的基地台，涵蓋範圍有45公尺哩！」 (笑聲) 這很荒謬！我們在每一棟大樓的每一個房間裡都有插座，我們也有自來水，那問題到底出在哪裡？好，至少我們知道這一行的內幕了。你可以上YouTube看看，輸入""iPhone Shuffle""，有一個人拍了一段模倣的影片，模倣那種一英吋大小的iPod Shuffle，他說：「裡面只有一個按鈕，按一下就會隨機撥號。」 (笑聲) 「你到底是誰？」 (笑聲) iPhone的另一項創舉是建立了應用軟體商店這個概念，你可以把軟體下載到手機上，然後利用手機上的傾斜感知器來操縱這個遊戲裡的車子。這些軟體會用到iPhone的所有配備—像是觸控面板。這是繪圖軟體，也就是EG 2008的主題，你知道要怎麼擦掉這個圖案嗎？搖一搖就可以了，對，就像這樣搖一搖就擦掉了。 iPhone有一萬個這種軟體可供下載，這個是翻譯軟體，裡面包含了世界上所有的語言，你只要輸入你要查詢的字句，就會出現翻譯，真的很神奇！這是Midomi，不管你想到什麼歌，你只要對著它唱出來：嘟嘟嘟...嗒嗒嗒...好，按一下「完成」，它就會幫你找到那首歌，再為你播放，這真的很神奇，對吧？ 這是Pandora，一個免費的網路電台，還不只這樣，你只要輸入樂團名稱或歌名，它就會立刻為你播放那首歌或那個樂團的歌，下面還有喜歡或不喜歡的按鈕，你可以看你喜不喜歡那首歌，如果你喜歡，它就會播放另一個樂團具有類似配樂、合聲、旋律和節奏的另一首歌，不管你喜不喜歡，你只要按下按鈕就行了，過一段時間之後，它就再也不會播放你不喜歡的歌了，而只會播放你喜歡的類型。 這是Urbanspoon，它會自動用GPS找出你在什麼城市的什麼地點，如果你要找地方吃飯，搖一下，它就會建議一家餐館，讓你知道價位、地點和評比。(影片)：我可不想走那麼遠去Flushing這家餐館。這真是太神奇了！當然，我們談的不只是iPhone， iPhone打破了一般的思考模式，所以其他人也跟進了，像Google現在也開發了Android系統，很快就會應用在手機上，會推廣到全世界34個國家。有觸控面板，很棒！也有它自己的應用軟體商店，你可以從那裡下載軟體， 真的很棒！在這一波浪潮裡，Verizon這家最古板、最保守的系統業者，他們說：「消費者可以在我們的系統裡使用任何品牌手機。」我很喜歡這個雜誌的標題：母豬飛上天，地獄關上門，Verizon才會真的開放系統。 每一件事都在改變，我們進入了一個創新的世界，現在的手機就是你的電腦，你還可以隨心所欲安裝你要的配備，所以每一支手機都與眾不同，還有很多軟體供你選擇。我可以再唱一首一分鐘的歌嗎？謝謝！ (掌聲) 在結束之前，我想給你們看看這台新的蘋果音樂平台，只有三磅重，如果加裝微軟Office軟體的話，就會重達12磅。 (笑聲) 對不起，我太刻薄了。這是我為紐約時報的網站所寫的一首歌，還拍成影片，各位先生女士，這支影片曾在YouTube上連續七個小時榮登第一名寶座。 現在即將進入尾聲，我已經厭倦這支老舊的手機，聲音不好，訊號又弱，軟體也很爛，簡直就是地獄來的手機。我聽說有新玩意兒，比我的手機好上一百萬倍，我也要去買，我要一支iPhone。我也會擔心，它會有很多缺點，我們不得不面對，沒有鍵盤，沒有記憶卡，電池是封死的，不能更換。但老天，這東西真棒！多點觸控、可以聽音樂、打Wi-Fi電話，你會聽到我說：「哈囉！」我要一支iPhone，我要觸摸它那珍貴的螢幕，幫它好好地清理乾淨。我要我的朋友羨慕我，我要說：「看，我很酷吧？」我寧願排隊也要買，我要一支iPhone。想成為男人嗎？要具備什麼？如果沒有iPhone，就矮人一截，手機就要買iPhone。誰在乎是不是AT&T？我就是要買，就算要花五百美金，我買到iPhone了！ (掌聲) 謝謝！非常謝謝各位！ (掌聲)"
