Talk	en	zh-tw
david_gallo_shows_underwater_astonishments	"We're going to go on a dive to the deep sea, and anyone that's had that lovely opportunity knows that for about two and half hours on the way down, it's a perfectly positively pitch-black world. And we used to see the most mysterious animals out the window that you couldn't describe: these blinking lights — a world of bioluminescence, like fireflies. Dr. Edith Widder — she's now at the Ocean Research and Conservation Association — was able to come up with a camera that could capture some of these incredible animals, and that's what you're seeing here on the screen. That's all bioluminescence. Like I said: just like fireflies. There's a flying turkey under a tree. (Laughter) I'm a geologist by training. But I love that. And you see, some of the bioluminescence they use to avoid being eaten, some they use to attract prey, but all of it, from an artistic point of view, is just positively amazing. And a lot of what goes on inside — There's a fish with glowing eyes, pulsating eyes. Some of the colors are designed to hypnotize, these lovely patterns. And then this last one, one of my favorites, this pinwheel design. Just absolutely amazing, every single dive. That's the unknown world, and today we've only explored about 3 percent of what's out there in the ocean. Already we've found the world's highest mountains, the world's deepest valleys, underwater lakes, underwater waterfalls — a lot of that we shared with you from the stage. And in a place where we thought no life at all, we find more life, we think, and diversity and density than the tropical rainforest, which tells us that we don't know much about this planet at all. There's still 97 percent, and either that 97 percent is empty or just full of surprises. But I want to jump up to shallow water now and look at some creatures that are positively amazing. Cephalopods — head-foots. As a kid I knew them as calamari, mostly. (Laughter) This is an octopus. This is the work of Dr. Roger Hanlon at the Marine Biological Lab, and it's just fascinating how cephalopods can, with their incredible eyes, sense their surroundings, look at light, look at patterns. Here's an octopus moving across the reef, finds a spot to settle down, curls up and then disappears into the background. Tough thing to do. In the next bit, we're going to see a couple squid. Now males, when they fight, if they're really aggressive, they turn white. And these two males are fighting. They do it by bouncing their butts together, which is an interesting concept. Now, here's a male on the left and a female on the right, and the male has managed to split his coloration so the female only always sees the kinder, gentler squid in him. (Laughter) Let's take a look at it again. Watch the coloration: white on the right, brown on the left. He takes a step back, he's keeping off the other males by splitting his body, and comes up on the other side — Bingo! Now, I'm told that's not not just a squid phenomenon with males, but I don't know. (Laughter) Cuttlefish. I love cuttlefish. This is a Giant Australian Cuttlefish. And there he is, his droopy little eyes up here. But they can do pretty amazing things, too. Here we're going to see one backing into a crevice, and watch his tentacles — he just pulls them in, makes them look just like algae. Disappears right into the background. Positively amazing. Here's two males fighting. Once again, they're smart enough, these cephalopods; they know not to hurt each other. But look at the patterns that they can do with their skin. That's an amazing thing. Here's an octopus. Sometimes they don't want to be seen when they move, because predators can see them. This guy can make himself look like a rock, and, looking at his environment, can actually slide across the bottom, using the waves and the shadows so he can't be seen. His motion blends right into the background — the moving rock trick. So, we're learning lots new from the shallow water. Still exploring the deep, but learning lots from the shallow water. There's a good reason why: the shallow water's full of predators — here's a barracuda — and if you're an octopus or a cephalopod, you need to really understand how to use your surroundings to hide. In the next scene, you're going to see a nice coral bottom. And you see that an octopus would stand out very easily there if you couldn't use your camouflage, use your skin to change color and texture. Here's some algae in the foreground — and an octopus. Ain't that amazing? Now, Roger spooked him, so he took off in a cloud of ink, and when he lands, the octopus says, ""Oh, I've been seen. The best thing to do is to get as big as I can get."" That big brown makes his eyespot very big. So, he's bluffing. Let's do it backwards. I thought he was joking when he first showed it to me. I thought it was all graphics. So here it is in reverse. Watch the skin color; watch the skin texture. Just an amazing animal, it can change color and texture to match the surroundings. Watch him blend right into this algae. One, two, three. (Applause) And now he's gone, and so am I. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我們將要潛入深海中。而任何曾有如此美妙經驗的人都知道在我們潛入海底的兩個半小時旅程中，外面是一片漆黑的世界。然後我們將會在窗外看到最神秘的你無法用言語描述的生物。這些閃爍的光線：一個生物螢光的世界，如同螢火蟲一般。Edith Witter 博士 — 她目前在海洋研究保育機構工作 —她研制了一部攝影機才能捕捉這些不可思議的生物的其中一些鏡頭，就是你們目前正在螢幕上面觀賞的這段影片。 這些都是生物螢光。因此，像我說過的：就如同螢火蟲一般。這些是在樹下飛翔的火雞。（笑聲）我知道。我唸得是地理。但是我愛死這些生物了。你可以看到某些這種生物螢光被用來防止被獵食，相對的，某些則用來吸引獵物。但是他們全部，以藝術的眼光來說，沒有比「神奇」更好的形容詞了。這些生物體內也發生一連串的反應 —這是眼睛會發光閃爍的魚，某些顏色被用來催眠。這些可愛的圖紋。還有這最後一個：我最喜愛的風火輪設計。每一次的下潛經驗都是一次驚奇。 這是未知的世界。直到今天我們只探索了整個大海的 3% 而已。但我們已經發現了世界最高的山脈，最深的峽谷，水下的湖，水下的瀑布 —今天於台上我們將與您分享。在我們曾經以為沒有生命的地方，我們發現了生命的驚人密度及多樣性，甚至超越了熱帶雨林。這告訴我們我們根本還不了解這個星球。還有 97% ，不論你認為是 97% 的空虛還是 97% 的驚奇。 但是我現在想要帶你們到淺水域來，來看看這些驚奇的生物。頭足綱（類）動物。我年幼時主要是從 calamari 這道菜開始認識牠們。這是章魚。這是 Roger Hanlon 博士於海洋生物實驗室的研究成果。知道頭足綱動物們如何藉由牠們不可思議的眼睛來察覺牠們周遭的環境是令人著迷的事情，牠們能察覺光線跟圖案。這是一隻章魚橫越珊瑚礁。找到一個棲身之處，捲曲並消失在背景中。非常困難的一件事。 接下來，我們將要看到一對烏賊。這是一隻烏賊。現在是兩隻在打架的雄烏賊，如果他們懷有強烈的敵意，他們會變成白色的。這兩隻雄性烏賊正在打架。他們打架時會互撞屁股，這是一個有趣的概念。現在左邊有一隻雄烏賊右邊有一隻雌烏賊。現在，這隻雄烏賊將他的體色一分為二，所以雌烏賊永遠只會見到雄烏賊紳士有禮的一面。但是雄烏賊就 —（笑聲）我們再看一次。讓我們再看一次。注意他的體色：右邊是白的，左邊是棕的。他往後退了一步，這樣他可以藉由將身體切為兩半並顯現另外一半來隔離其他雄性烏賊 ...就是這樣！我被告知這種雄性行為並不只是烏賊獨有的，但我不知道。（掌聲） 魷魚。我喜愛魷魚。這是一隻巨型澳洲魷魚。他在那邊。他下垂的小眼睛在上面那裡。他們可以做非常讓人驚奇的事情。這邊我們看到一隻倒退著進入一道縫隙，然後 —仔細看他的觸角。他就這麼將它們拉進去。讓他看起來如同海藻一般。瞬間融入背景中消失蹤影。就是這麼令人驚奇。這邊有兩隻雄性在打架。再一次的，這些頭足動物們，牠們夠聰明 —牠們知道不能彼此傷害對方。但是看看牠們皮膚所能顯現出來的圖案，就像這樣！除了神奇還是神奇。 這邊是一隻章魚。有時候當牠們移動的時候不喜歡被看見，因為獵食者也許會看到牠們。這邊，這傢伙讓自己看起來跟岩石一模一樣，同時，觀察周遭環境，在海底緩慢的滑行，利用波浪造成的陰影移動，這樣比較不容易被看到。他融合得如此之好；動作與背景融合。這是模仿岩石移動的技巧。因此我們從淺海域學到了不少新知。在持續探索深海的同時，學習關於淺海域的新知。牠們之所以發展出這些能力是有原因的：淺海域到處充滿著獵食者。這是一隻梭魚。如果你是章魚或是頭足動物你必需是利用周遭環境隱藏的大師。 在下一幕中你將會看見一個珊瑚礁的底部。你會發現章魚在這種環境會顯得非常突出如果你不能善用你的偽裝，你將會非常容易被發現，使用你的皮膚來改變顏色和材質。這一幕的前景有一些海藻。還有一隻章魚。這不神奇嗎？現在，Roger 嚇到牠了，所以牠一溜煙的跑走了。當牠停下來以後，這隻章魚會說：「老天，我被看見了。所以我必須盡力讓自己看起來愈大愈好。」這隻大棕色的傢伙讓牠的眼睛看起來非常的大。他在虛張聲勢。現在讓我們倒帶來看。當他指出那隻章魚給我看的時候，我以為他在開玩笑。我以為那都是特效。所以我們現在倒帶。仔細看牠皮膚的顏色跟材質。神乎其技的動物，可以同時改變顏色與材質使牠看起來與周遭環境一模一樣。看著牠與海藻融合在一起。一、二、三。現在牠不見了，我也要離開了。非常感謝大家。
