Talk	en	zh-tw
dawn_landes_a_song_for_my_hero_the_woman_who_rowed_into_a_hurricane	"In June of 1998, Tori Murden McClure left Nags Head, North Carolina for France. That's her boat, the American Pearl. It's 23 feet long and just six feet across at its widest point. The deck was the size of a cargo bed of a Ford F-150 pickup truck. Tori and her friends built it by hand, and it weighed about 1,800 pounds. Her plan was to row it alone across the Atlantic Ocean — no motor, no sail — something no woman and no American had ever done before. This would be her route: over 3,600 miles across the open North Atlantic Ocean. Professionally, Tori worked as a project administrator for the city of Louisville, Kentucky, her hometown, but her real passion was exploring. This was not her first big expedition. Several years earlier, she'd become the first woman to ski to the South Pole. She was an accomplished rower in college, even competed for a spot on the 1992 U.S. Olympic team, but this, this was different. (Video) (Music) Tori Murden McClure: Hi. It's Sunday, July 5. Sector time 9 a.m. So that's Kentucky time now. Dawn Landes: Tori made these videos as she rowed. This is her 21st day at sea. At this point, she'd covered over 1,000 miles, had had no radio contact in more than two weeks following a storm that disabled all her long-range communications systems just five days in. Most days looked like this. At this point, she'd rowed over 200,000 strokes, fighting the current and the wind. Some days, she traveled as little as 15 feet. Yeah. And as frustrating as those days were, other days were like this. (Video) TMM: And I want to show you my little friends. DL: She saw fish, dolphins, whales, sharks, and even some sea turtles. After two weeks with no human contact, Tori was able to contact a local cargo ship via VHF radio. (Video) TMM: Do you guys have a weather report, over? Man: Heading up to a low ahead of you but it's heading, and you're obviously going northeast and there's a high behind us. That'd be coming east-northeast also. TMM: Good. DL: She's pretty happy to talk to another human at this point. (Video) TMM: So weather report says nothing dramatic is going to happen soon. DL: What the weather report didn't tell her was that she was rowing right into the path of Hurricane Danielle in the worst hurricane season on record in the North Atlantic. (Video) TMM: Just sprained my ankle. There's a very strong wind from the east now. It's blowing about. It's blowing! After 12 days of storm I get to row for four hours without a flagging wind. I'm not very happy right now. As happy as I was this morning, I am unhappy now, so ... DL: After nearly three months at sea, she'd covered over 3,000 miles. She was two thirds of the way there, but in the storm, the waves were the size of a seven-story building. Her boat kept capsizing. Some of them were pitchpole capsizes, flipping her end over end, and rowing became impossible. (Video) TMM: It's 6:30 a.m. I'm in something big, bad and ugly. Two capsizes. Last capsize, I took the rib off the top of my ceiling with my back. I've had about six capsizes now. The last one was a pitchpole. I have the Argus beacon with me. I would set off the distress signal, but quite frankly, I don't think they'd ever be able to find this little boat. It's so far underwater right now, the only part that's showing pretty much is the cabin. It's about 10 a.m. I've lost track of the number of capsizes. I seem to capsize about every 15 minutes. I think I may have broken my left arm. The waves are tearing the boat to shreds. I keep praying because I'm not sure I'm going to make it through this. DL: Tori set off her distress beacon and was rescued by a passing container ship. They found her abandoned boat two months later adrift near France. I read about it in the newspaper. In 1998, I was a high school student living in Louisville, Kentucky. Now, I live in New York City. I'm a songwriter. And her bravery stuck with me, and I'm adapting her story into a musical called ""Row."" When Tori returned home, she was feeling disheartened, she was broke. She was having a hard time making the transition back into civilization. In this scene, she sits at home. The phone is ringing, her friends are calling, but she doesn't know how to talk to them. She sings this song. It's called ""Dear Heart."" (Guitar) When I was dreaming, I took my body to beautiful places I'd never been. I saw Gibraltar, and stars of Kentucky burned in the moonlight, making me smile. And when I awoke here, the sky was so cloudy. I walked to a party where people I know try hard to know me and ask where I've been, but I can't explain what I've seen to them. Ah, listen, dear heart. Just pay attention, go right from the start. Ah, listen, dear heart. You can fall off the map, but don't fall apart. Ooh ooh ooh, ah ah ah ah ah. Ah ah, ah ah ah. When I was out there, the ocean would hold me, rock me and throw me, light as a child. But now I'm so heavy, nothing consoles me. My mind floats like driftwood, wayward and wild. Ah, listen, dear heart. Just pay attention, go right from the start. Ah, listen, dear heart. You can fall off the map, but don't fall apart. Ooh. Eventually, Tori starts to get her feet under her. She starts hanging out with her friends again. She meets a guy and falls in love for the first time. She gets a new job working for another Louisville native, Muhammad Ali. One day, at lunch with her new boss, Tori shares the news that two other women are setting out to row across the mid-Atlantic, to do something that she almost died trying to do. His response was classic Ali: ""You don't want to go through life as the woman who almost rowed across the ocean."" He was right. Tori rebuilt the American Pearl, and in December of 1999, she did it. (Applause) (Guitar) Thank you. (Applause)"	1998年六月，托莉．姆爾登．麥克克盧爾 (Tori Murden McClure)離開北卡羅萊納的馬頭城，前往法國。 這艘是她的船，美國珍珠號。這艘船長23英呎，最寬的地方也只有6英呎。甲板和福特 F-150 開篷小貨車的貨箱一樣大。托莉和她的朋友手工打造出這艘船，重量有1800磅。她計畫獨自划船橫跨大西洋 —不用馬達、也不用帆 —沒有任何的美國人或是女性曾經這樣做過。這是她的航線：穿越廣闊的北大西洋超過36000英哩 托莉的職業是擔任專案經理，就在美國肯塔基州路易斯維爾她的家鄉。但是，她真正熱愛的是探險。這不是她的第一次遠征。早在數年前，她已是第一個在南極滑雪的女人。她在大學時是個優秀的槳手，甚至爭取過1992年美國奧運代表隊的選手權。但是，這次更加困難。 （影片）（音樂）Tori Murden McClure (TMM):嗨！現在是7月5號，星期日。航線時間早上9點所以現在是肯塔基州時間。 Dawn Landes (DL)：托莉在划槳中錄了這段影片。這是她在海上的第21天。此時，她已經走了1000英里的航程，並有兩週以上沒有取得任何無線電聯繫。因為一場暴風雨讓所有的長程通訊系統都故障了，才5天的暴風雨而已。航行大多數日子看起來都像這樣。這時，她下槳超過20萬次，和海流及強風奮戰。有些天，只能前進15英尺。是的。但是除去那些令人洩氣的日子，別的時候，是像這樣的。 （影片） TMM：我現在想讓你們看看我的一些小朋友。 DL：她看到魚、海豚、鯨魚、鯊魚、甚至還有一些海龜。失去人類聯繫兩週後，托莉與當地的貨船取得聯繫，透過 VHF 無線電。 （影片） TMM：你們能告訴我天氣預報嗎？完畢。 男：妳正航向一個低氣壓，在妳的前面，但是它也在向前。妳現在的航向是東北方，還有一個高氣壓在我們後面。它的移動方向......也是朝向東北東方。 TMM：好。 DL：當時她非常開心能和其他人交談。 （影片）TMM：天氣預報說等一下天氣不會有劇烈變化。 DL：可是天氣預報沒有告訴她：她正朝著 Danielle 颶風的路徑划去，而當時，是北大西洋有記錄以來，最糟糕的颶風季節。 （影片）TMM：剛剛我的腳踝扭傷了。現在東邊吹來一陣強風。強風到處吹。強風在吹！經過12天的暴風雨，我得划上四個小時，如果風不弱下來。我現在不太開心。早上雖然開心，現在心情不好，所以...... DL：在海上航行將近3個月後，她已經划了超過 3000 英里。她完成了2/3的距離，但是在暴風雨中，海浪有7層樓建築物那麼高。她的船一直在翻覆。有些翻船是首尾翻滾，把她從船的一端拋向另一端，根本不可能繼續划行了。 （影像）TMM：現在早上6:30。剛經歷又大、又糟糕、又可怕兩次翻船。最後一次翻船，我的背把船艙的骨架從天花板上撞下來了。我已經翻了6次船。最後一次，首尾翻滾。我帶著阿格斯訊號浮標。我準備要發射求救訊號了，但老實說，我不認為他們能夠找到這艘小船。已經沈入水裡太多了，只有船倉還露在外面。現在是早上10點。我已經數不清楚到底翻了幾次船。好像每15分鐘就翻一次。我覺得我的左臂可能斷了。海浪......正要把船撕成碎片。我不斷祈禱，因為我不確定我能不能挺過去。DL： 托莉發射了求救訊號，最後被經過的貨船救起來。兩個月後，在靠近法國的海邊有人發現她的棄船漂流。我在報紙上讀到這個故事。 1998年時，我是個住在肯塔基州路易斯維爾的高中生。現在，我住在紐約，是個作曲者。她的勇敢故事時常縈繞我心中，現在我將她的故事改編成一首音樂劇，叫做《划船》當托莉回到家，她覺得非常沮喪，她身無分文。她經歷了一段艱難的過渡期，才回復到正常文明社會。 這一幕，她坐在家中。電話響起，是她的朋友打來的，但她不知道要如何和他們說。她唱起這首歌，歌名是《親愛的》 （吉他） 當我沉浸在夢中， 我的身體飛越千里 到達美麗的地方 那些我從未親自探訪的祕境。 吉布羅陀海峽 肯塔基的星辰 在月光中那麼燦爛， 讓我會心一笑。 但我此刻驚醒， 天空佈滿烏雲。 我走向聚會 那些認識我的朋友們 努力關心我 「妳究竟去了哪裡？」， 但我無法清楚解釋 夢中所見情境。 喔~ 聽著，親愛的。 只要用心聆聽， 不忘初衷。 喔~聽著，親愛的。 你可能會迷失航向， 但別因此崩潰。 喔~~~ 喔~~~喔~~~ 喔~~~ 喔~~~。 當我身在海中時， 大海擁我入懷， 搖晃我、拍打我， 我的身體就像小孩一樣輕盈。 但我現在如此沉重， 誰能撫慰我？ 我的心如漂流木般， 狂野而任性。 喔~聽著，親愛的。 只要用心聆聽， 不忘初衷。 .喔~聽著，親愛的。 你可能會迷失航向， 但別因此崩潰。 喔~ 最後， 托莉走出陰影。她重新和朋友一起出去玩。她與一個男人相遇，首度墜入愛河。她在路易斯維爾獲得一份新工作，老闆是當地人穆罕默德•阿里。有一天，她和新老闆一起吃午餐，托莉分享了一則新聞，有兩位女性正準備划船橫渡中大西洋，去做她幾乎賭上性命去做的事情。 他的反應，完全是典型的「阿里」式回答：「妳不會只想度過餘生，始終只是一位差點划船成功、橫渡大洋的女性。」 他說對了。托莉重建了美國珍珠號，在 1999 年 12 月，她做到了。 (掌聲)(吉他)謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
