Talk	en	zh-tw
dean_ornish_says_your_genes_are_not_your_fate	"One way to change our genes is to make new ones, as Craig Venter has so elegantly shown. Another is to change our lifestyles. And what we're learning is how powerful and dynamic these changes can be, that you don't have to wait very long to see the benefits. When you eat healthier, manage stress, exercise and love more, your brain actually gets more blood flow and more oxygen. But more than that, your brain gets measurably bigger. Things that were thought impossible just a few years ago can actually be measured now. This was figured out by Robin Williams a few years before the rest of us. Now, there's some things that you can do to make your brain grow new brain cells. Some of my favorite things, like chocolate and tea, blueberries, alcohol in moderation, stress management and cannabinoids found in marijuana. I'm just the messenger. (Laughter) What were we just talking about? (Laughter) And other things that can make it worse, that can cause you to lose brain cells. The usual suspects, like saturated fat and sugar, nicotine, opiates, cocaine, too much alcohol and chronic stress. Your skin gets more blood flow when you change your lifestyle, so you age less quickly. Your skin doesn't wrinkle as much. Your heart gets more blood flow. We've shown that you can actually reverse heart disease. That these clogged arteries that you see on the upper left, after only a year become measurably less clogged. And the cardiac PET scan shown on the lower left, the blue means no blood flow. A year later — orange and white is maximum blood flow. We've shown you may be able to stop and reverse the progression of early prostate cancer and, by extension, breast cancer, simply by making these changes. We've found that tumor growth in vitro was inhibited 70 percent in the group that made these changes, whereas only nine percent in the comparison group. These differences were highly significant. Even your sexual organs get more blood flow, so you increase sexual potency. One of the most effective anti-smoking ads was done by the Department of Health Services, showing that nicotine, which constricts your arteries, can cause a heart attack or a stroke, but it also causes impotence. Half of guys who smoke are impotent. How sexy is that? Now we're also about to publish a study — the first study showing you can change gene expression in men with prostate cancer. This is what's called a heat map — and the different colors — and along the side, on the right, are different genes. And we found that over 500 genes were favorably changed — in effect, turning on the good genes, the disease-preventing genes, turning off the disease-promoting genes. And so these findings I think are really very powerful, giving many people new hope and new choices. And companies like Navigenics and DNA Direct and 23andMe, that are giving you your genetic profiles, are giving some people a sense of, ""Gosh, well, what can I do about it?"" Well, our genes are not our fate, and if we make these changes — they're a predisposition — but if we make bigger changes than we might have made otherwise, we can actually change how our genes are expressed. Thank you. (Applause)"	改變我們基因的方法之一，是製造新的基因，如同克萊格•凡特之前優雅的演說一般。另一個方法是，改變我們的生活作息。我們所學到的是，這些改變可以非常迅速與有效，你不需要等待太久，就能察覺它的效益。當你吃得更健康，有效紓解壓力，運動與保持喜樂，你腦部血液循環會增加，因而獲得更多氧氣。除此之外，你的腦容積會明顯地變大。幾年前被認為不可能的事，而現在能被測知了。這一點羅賓•威廉斯比我們還要更早幾年知道。（電影：窈窕奶爸） 因此，你可以做一些事情來促使你的腦增生新的腦細胞。一些我最喜愛的事物，像是巧克力、茶、藍莓、適度的飲酒，良好的情緒管理還有大麻中的大麻醇。我只是傳遞訊息而已。（全場大笑）我們剛剛談到哪裡？（全場大笑）其他這些事情可以使情形惡化，它們可以讓你失去腦細胞。它們是我們常聽到的，像是：飽和脂肪與糖類、尼古丁、嗎啡、古柯鹼、過量飲酒與慢性的壓力。 當你改變生活作息的同時，皮膚的血液循環也會增加，因此可以減緩老化，減少皺紋產生。你的心臟獲得更多的血液供給。我們已經證明，你可以逆轉心臟疾病的生成。你們在左上圖所看到的這些動脈阻塞，在短短的一年後變得暢通許多。而在左下圖是心血管正子掃描結果，藍色意味著沒有血液流過。一年後 — 橘色和白色表示血液循環非常暢通。我們已經證明，你可以停止或是反轉早期攝護腺癌(另譯:前列腺癌)的發生，推測乳癌也適用，只要做出這些改變。當病人作出這些改變，他們的癌細胞在試管培養實驗發現生長力降低了 70%,而對照組只降低了 9%。 這些差異非常的顯著。甚至你性器官的血液循環也會增加，所以你的性能力會跟著增加。衛生局製作出了最有效的反菸害廣告之一，告訴人們，尼古丁會使動脈收縮，導致心臟病發作或是中風，同時也會引發性無能。半數吸煙的男士有性功能障礙。這樣能多性感？ 我們也即將發表一則研究 —這個研究顯示，你可以改變攝護腺癌男士的基因表現。這是我們稱之為基因熱圖的資料。這些不同的顏色，在投影片右邊你可以看到，表示不同的基因。我們發現，超過五百個基因呈現好轉趨勢，開啟好的基因，能防止疾病的基因，關閉會促使疾病產生的基因。 我認為，這些發現是非常有用的。能為許多人帶來新的希望與選擇。而那些像是 Navigenix, DNA Direct 和 23andMe 等提供你個人基因資訊的公司，會為某些人帶來命定論的感覺，「老天，我能怎麼辦？」這麼嘛，我們的基因不能決定我們的命運，只要我們能做改變 —它們是你的體質傾向，但如果我們做出更大的改變，我們可以改變它的方向，我們可以改變我的的基因如何表現。謝謝大家。（掌聲）
