Talk	en	zh-tw
dean_kamen_the_emotion_behind_invention	"It's not about technology, it's about people and stories. I could show you what recently was on television as a high quality video: 60 Minutes, many of you may have seen it. And it was the now director of the entire piece of the veteran's administration — who, himself, had lost an arm 39 years ago in Vietnam — who was adamantly opposed to these crazy devices that don't work. And it turns out that with 60 Minutes cameras rolling in the background, after he pretty much made his position clear on this — he had his hook and he had his — he wore this arm for less than two hours and was able to pour himself a drink and got quite emotional over the fact that, quote — his quote — it's the first time he's felt like he's had an arm in 39 years. But that would sort of be jumping to the middle of the story, and I'm not going to show you that polished video. I'm going to, instead, in a minute or two, show you an early, crude video because I think it's a better way to tell a story. A few years ago I was visited by the guy that runs DARPA, the people that fund all the advanced technologies that businesses and universities probably wouldn't take the risk of doing. They have a particular interest in ones that will help our soldiers. I get this sort of unrequested — by me anyway — visit, and sitting in my conference room is a very senior surgeon from the military and the guy that runs DARPA. They proceed to tell me a story which comes down to basically the following. We have used such advanced technologies now and made them available in the most remote places that we put soldiers: hills of Afghanistan, Iraq ... They were quite proud of the fact that you know, before the dust clears, if some soldier has been hurt they will have collected him or her, they will have brought him back, they will be getting world-class triage emergency care faster than you and I would be getting it if we were hurt in a car accident in a major city in the United States. That's the good news. The bad news is if they've collected this person and he or she is missing an arm or leg, part of the face, it's probably not coming back. So, they started giving me the statistics on how many of these kids had lost an arm. And then the surgeon pointed out, with a lot of anger, he said, ""Why is it? At the end of the Civil War, they were shooting each other with muskets. If somebody lost an arm, we gave them a wooden stick with a hook on it. Now we've got F18s and F22s, and if somebody loses an arm, we give them a plastic stick with a hook on it."" And they basically said, ""This is unacceptable,"" and then the punchline: ""So, Dean, we're here because you make medical stuff. You're going to give us an arm."" And I was waiting for the 500 pages of bureaucracy, paperwork and DODs. No, the guy says, ""We're going to bring a guy into this conference room, and wearing the arm you're going to give us, he or she is going to pick up a raisin or a grape off this table. If it's the grape, they won't break it."" Great he needs efferent, afferent, haptic response sensors. ""If it's the raisin, they won't drop it."" So he wants fine motor control: flex at the wrist, flex at the elbow, abduct and flex at the shoulder. Either way they were going to eat it. ""Oh, by the way Dean. It's going to fit on a 50th percentile female frame — namely 32 inches from the long finger — and weigh less than nine pounds."" 50th percentile female frame. ""And it's going to be completely self contained including all its power."" So, they finished that. And I, as you can tell, am a bashful guy. I told them they're nuts. (Laughter) They've been watching too much ""Terminator."" (Laughter) Then, the surgeon says to me, ""Dean, you need to know more than two dozen of these kids have come back bilateral."" Now, I cannot imagine — I'm sorry, you may have a better imagination than I do — I can't imagine losing my arm, and typically at 22 years old. But compared to that, losing two? Seems like that would be an inconvenience. Anyway, I went home that night. I thought about it. I literally could not sleep thinking about, ""I wonder how you'd roll over with no shoulders."" So, I decided we've got to do this. And trust me, I've got a day job, I've got a lot of day jobs. Most of my day job keeps me busy funding my fantasies like FIRST and water and power .... And I've got a lot of day jobs. But I figured I gotta do this. Did a little investigation, went down to Washington, told them I still think they're nuts but we're going to do it. And I told them I'd build them an arm. I told them it would probably take five years to get through the FDA, and probably 10 years to be reasonably functional. Look what it takes to make things like iPods. ""Great,"" he said, ""You got two years."" (Laughter) I said, ""I'll tell you what. I'll build you an arm that's under nine pounds that has all that capability in one year. It will take the other nine to make it functional and useful."" We sort of agreed to disagree. I went back and I started putting a team together, the best guys I could find with a passion to do this. At the end of exactly one year we had a device with 14 degrees of freedom, all the sensors, all the microprocessors, all the stuff inside. I could show you it with a cosmesis on it that's so real it's eerie, but then you wouldn't see all this cool stuff. I then thought it would be years before we'd be able to make it really, really useful. It turned out, as I think you could see in Aimee's capabilities and attitudes, people with a desire to do something are quite remarkable and nature is quite adaptable. Anyway, with less than 10 hours of use, two guys — one that's bilateral. He's literally, he's got no shoulder on one side, and he's high trans-humeral on the other. And that's Chuck and Randy together, after 10 hours — were playing in our office. And we took some pretty cruddy home movies. At the end of the one I'm going to show, it's only about a minute and a couple of seconds long, Chuck does something that to this day I'm jealous of, I can't do it. He picks up a spoon, picks it up, scoops out some Shredded Wheat and milk, holds the spoon level as he translates it, moving all these joints simultaneously, to his mouth, and he doesn't drop any milk. (Laughter) I cannot do that. (Laughter) His wife was standing behind me. She's standing behind me at the time and she says, ""Dean, Chuck hasn't fed himself in 19 years. So, you've got a choice: We keep the arm, or you keep Chuck."" (Laughter) (Applause) So, can we see that? This is Chuck showing simultaneous control of all the joints. He's punching our controls guy. The guy behind him is our engineer/surgeon, which is a convenient guy to have around. There's Randy, these guys are passing a rubber little puck between them. And just as in the spirit of FIRST, gracious professionalism, they are quite proud of this, so they decide to share a drink. This is a non-trivial thing to do, by the way. Imagine doing that with a wooden stick and a hook on the end of it, doing either of those. Now Chuck is doing something quite extraordinary, at least for my limited physical skill. And now he's going to do what DARPA asked me for. He's going to pick up a grape — he didn't drop it, he didn't break it — and he's going to eat it. So, that's where we were at the end of about 15 months. (Applause) But, as I've learned from Richard, the technology, the processors, the sensors, the motors, is not the story. I hadn't dealt with this kind of problem or frankly, this whole segment of the medical world. I'll give you some astounding things that have happened as we started this. After we were pretty much convinced we had a good design, and we'd have to make all the standard engineering trade-offs you always make — you can always get three out of four of anything you want; the weight, the size, the cost, the functionality — I put a bunch of guys in my plane and I said, ""We're flying down to Walter Reed, and we're going talk to these kids, because frankly it doesn't matter whether we like this arm. It doesn't matter whether the Department of Defense likes this arm."" When I told them that they weren't entirely enthusiastic, but I told them, ""It really doesn't matter what their opinion is. There is only one opinion that matters, the kids that are either going to use it or not."" I told a bunch of my engineers, ""Look we're going to walk into Walter Reed, and you're going to see people, lots of them, missing major body parts. They're probably going to be angry, depressed, frustrated. We're probably going to have to give them support, encouragement. But we've got to extract from them enough information to make sure we're doing the right thing."" We walked into Walter Reed and I could not have been more wrong. We did see a bunch of people, a lot of them missing a lot of body parts, and parts they had left were burned; half a face gone, an ear burned off. They were sitting at a table. They were brought together for us. And we started asking them all questions. ""Look,"" I'd say to them, ""We're not quite as good as nature yet. I could give you fine motor control, or I could let you curl 40 pounds; I probably can't do both. I can give you fast control with low reduction ratios in these gears, or I can give you power; I can't give you both. And we were trying to get them to all help us know what to give them. Not only were they enthusiastic, they kept thinking they're there to help us. ""Well, would it help if I ..."" ""Guys, and woman, you've given enough. We're here to help you. We need data. We need to know what you need."" After a half an hour, maybe, there was one guy at the far end of the table who wasn't saying much. You could see he was missing an arm. He was leaning on his other arm. I called down to the end, ""Hey, you haven't said much. If we needed this or this, what would you want?"" And he said, ""You know, I'm the lucky guy at this table. I lost my right arm, but I'm a lefty."" (Laughter) So, he wouldn't say much. He had a great spirit, like all the rest of them had great spirits. And he made a few comments. And then the meeting ended. We said goodbye to all these guys. And that guy pushed himself back from the table ... he has no legs. So, we left. And I was thinking, ""We didn't give them support and encouragement; they gave it to us. They're not finished giving yet."" It was astounding. So, we went back. And I started working harder, faster. Then we went out to Brooke Army Medical Center. And we saw lots of these kids, lots of them. And it was astounding how positive they are. So, we went back, and we've been working harder yet. We're in clinical trials, we've got five of them on people. We're screaming along. And I get a call and we go back to Washington. We go back to Walter Reed, and a kid, literally, 20 some-odd days before that was blown up. And they shipped him to Germany and 24 hours later they shipped him from Germany to Walter Reed. And he was there, and they said we needed to come. And I went down and they rolled him into a room. He's got no legs. He's got no arms. He's got a small residual limb on one side. Half of his face is gone, but they said his vision is coming back. He had one good eye. His name is Brandon Marrocco. And he said, ""I need your arms, but I need two of them."" ""You'll get them."" This kid was from Staten Island. And he said, ""I had a truck, before I went over there, and it had a stick. You think I'll be able to drive it?"" ""Sure."" And I turned around and went, ""How are we going to do this?"" (Laughter) Anyway, he was just like all the rest of them. He doesn't really want a lot. He wants to help. He told me that he wanted to go back to help his buddies. So, I was on my way out here. I was asked to stop at Texas. There were 3,500 people, the Veteran's Administration, U.S. ... just 3,500 at this huge event to help the families of all the kids — some that have died, some that are like Brandon — and they wanted me to speak. I said, ""What am I going to say? This is not a happy thing. Look, if this happens to you, I can give you ... This stuff is still not as good at the original equipment."" ""You need to come."" So, I went. And, as I think you get the point, there were a lot people there recovering. Some further along than others. But universally, these people that had been through this had astounding attitudes, and just the fact that people care makes a huge difference to them. I'll shut up, except one message or concern I have. I don't think anybody does it intentionally, but there were people there literally talking about, ""Well, how much will they get?"" You know, this country is involved as we've all heard, in this great healthcare debate. ""Who is entitled to what? Who is entitled to how much? Who is going to pay for it?"" Those are tough questions. I don't have an answer to that. Not everybody can be entitled to everything simply because you were born here. It's not possible. It would be nice but let's be realistic. They were tough questions. There's polarized groups down there. I don't know the answers. There are other questions that are tough. ""Should we be there? How do we get out? What do we need to do?"" There's very polarized answers to that question too, and I don't have any answers to that. Those are political questions, economic questions, strategic questions. I don't have the answer. But let me give you a simple concern or maybe statement, then. It is an easy answer. I know what these kids deserve on the healthcare side. I was talking to one of them, and he was really liking this arm — it's way, way, way better than a plastic stick with a hook on it — but there's nobody in this room that would rather have that than the one you got. But I was saying to him, ""You know, the first airplane went 100 feet in 1903. Wilbur and Orville. But you know what? It wouldn't have made an old pigeon jealous. But now we got Eagles out there, F15s, even that Bald Eagle. I've never seen a bird flying around at Mach 2. I think eventually we'll make these things extraordinary."" And I said to that kid, ""I'll stop when your buddies are envious of your Luke arm because of what it can do, and how it does it. And we'll keep working. And I'm not going to stop working until we do that."" And I think this country ought to continue its great debate, whining and complaining, ""I'm entitled."" ""You're a victim."" And whining and complaining about what our foreign policy ought to be. But while we have the luxury of whining and complaining about who's paying for what and how much we get, the people that are out there giving us that great privilege of whining and complaining, I know what they deserve: everything humanly possible. And we ought to give it to them. (Applause)"	我想說的跟科技無關，而是關於人們與其背後的故事。我可以給大家看看最近在電視上播出評價很高的「60分鐘」，大部分的人應該都有看過。主角是現任的退伍軍人協會會長，他在39年前，在越南失去了一條手臂，他很固執地拒絕使用以前那種不好用的義肢。當「60分鐘」一開始採訪他的時候，他立即表明他的立場，雖然他有那種有鈎子的義肢—他換上新式義肢不到二個小時，他就能自己倒水了，他激動地說，他說，這是他39年來第一次覺得自己的手臂又長回來了。 我好像講得太快了，都跳到故事中段去了。我今天不想放那段修飾過的影片，我想要放的是更早之前拍的一段較為寫實的一至二分鐘影片，我覺得這段影片更能表達出真實的故事。 幾年前，國防部高等計畫研究局的局長來找我，他們贊助的先進科技是許多企業或大學認為不值得投資的科技，他們對可以協助軍人的科技特別感興趣。就這樣，我見了這個不速之客，陪同局長坐在我的會議室的是軍中的一位資深外科手術醫生。 他們告訴我一件事，我們現在所使用的科技非常先進，就連遠在阿富汗、伊拉克山岳裡的軍人，也都可以使用。他們覺得很驕傲，因為在戰事過後，如果有士兵受傷了，他們很快就能把士兵救回來，送到醫院，讓受傷的士兵接受世界級的急救醫療，其速度之快，比你我在美國各大都市發生車禍受傷，被送到醫院接受急救還要快。這很不錯， 糟糕的是，若他們救回來的士兵，斷了一條手臂、斷了一條腿、或毁容了，就很難回復到原來的狀況。他們告訴我這些士兵斷掉手臂的統計數據，外科手術醫生則氣沖沖地說：「在南北戰爭的時候，大家用的是毛瑟槍，如果有人斷了手臂，我們就幫他們裝上一支木棍，外加一個鈎子。我們現在都已經改用F18和F22戰機了，為什麼每當有人手臂斷掉時，我們還是只給他們一支塑膠棍子外加一個鈎子呢？」 他們覺得這樣很不合理，最後他們說：「迪恩，我知道你有製作醫療器材，你一定要幫我們做出一支手臂來。」那時我想，或許他們會給我一份高達500頁的官樣文章，結果沒有。局長說：「我們會請一位斷了手臂的士兵來這裡，試戴你為我們設計的義肢，他要能用那支義肢拿起桌上的葡萄乾或葡萄，而不會把葡萄捏碎。」哦！他們要的就是要具備傳出、傳入的功能，還要有觸覺。「也不會把葡萄乾掉在地上。」他要能控制細部動作，手腕要能彎曲，手肘要能彎曲，肩膀要能彎曲和伸展，不管怎樣就是要把食物送進嘴裡就是了。 「對了，迪恩，我們要的是一般女人尺寸的義肢，也就是從肩膀到手指長約80公分，重量不超過4公斤的義肢。也就是一般女人的尺寸，裡面要有所有的功能，當然還要包含電力供應系統。」他們說完了。但我，你看得出來我是個腼腆的人，我告訴他們，他們瘋了。(笑聲)他們大概看太多「魔鬼終結者」了。(笑聲)接著，外科手術醫生告訴我：「迪恩，你必須知道，有超過24個士兵是雙臂全斷的。」我真的很難想像，你們可能比我更能想像吧...我不能想像失去手臂的感覺，尤其是在22歲這麼年輕的時候；但失去一條手臂和失去雙臂比起來，似乎只是稍微有點不方便而已。 總之，我那晚回到家，我思考著這件事，無法入眠，因為我在想，如果沒有肩膀，要怎麼翻身？因此，我決定要開發這種義肢。相信我，我那時有白天的工作，有好幾個白天的工作，這些工作主要是為我手上的幾個專案籌募資金，像是創新專案和水電專案等。雖然我已經有這麼多事要做，但我想：「這件事一定要做。」我做了一些調查，然後我跑到華盛頓去告訴他們，我還是覺得他們瘋了，但我們會盡力開發。我告訴他們我會開發這種義肢，然後大概要等上五年FDA(食品藥物管理局)才會通過，我估計大概要十年才能讓義肢運作。你看看iPod花了多少時間才上市。局長說：「很好，你只有二年時間。」(笑聲)我說：「這麼說吧，開發這個不到4公斤的義肢，裡面還要有這麼多功能，只需要一年時間；但要讓義肢變得好用並順利運作，得花另外九年的時間。」我們都瞭解彼此的看法了。 我回去組了一個團隊，團隊裡都是具有無比熱情的菁英份子。在一年過去之後，我們開發出一個可以自由活動14度的義肢，裡面有好幾組感知器和微處理器，還有各項必備零件。我可以給你們看包覆了人工皮膚之後的樣子，看起來就像真的手臂一樣，但你們就看不到裡面那些很酷的零件了。我接著想到或許還要好幾年才能把這種義肢修正到真正好用的狀況，但後來，從艾美(Aimee Mullins)的能力和態度我想你們也看得到，只要有心就能把事情做得很棒，人們有很強的適應力。 總之，有二個人試用了不到十小時，其中一個人雙臂斷掉，有一邊連肩膀也沒有，另一邊則齊肩斷掉。這二位是恰克和藍迪，十個小時之後，他們就在我們的辦公室玩起來了，於是我們幫他們錄下了一些可愛的片段。我要播放的影片大概只有一分多鐘，但在影片的最後，恰克做了一件讓我到現在都還很嫉妒的事，因為我做不到：他把一支湯匙拿起來，挖出一些燕麥糊，把湯匙放平，然後想辦法同時移動所有的關節，把東西送進嘴裡，連一滴也沒有掉下來。(笑聲)我就做不到。(笑聲)他太太那時站在我後面，就站在我後面，她說：「迪恩，恰克已經有19年沒有自己吃東西了，所以你可以選擇把義肢交給我們，或是我們把恰克留給你。」(笑聲) 現在可以看影片了嗎？現在恰克在示範如何同時控制所有的關節，他在對我們的控制工程師出拳，在他身後的人是我們的工程師兼外科醫生，有他在身邊我們比較放心。這是藍迪，他們二個在互傳一個橡膠球。就如同我旗下的創新基金會的成立宗旨一樣，這具有高尚、專業的精神，他們很自豪，所以決定來喝一杯。這可不是一件簡單的事，想像一下，如果你的義肢是一枝木棍外加一個鈎子，你能做到這些事嗎？現在，恰克要做一件了不起的事，而我從來都做不來這件事。現在，他要做的是國防部要求我要做到的，就是要拿起一顆葡萄，他沒有落掉那顆葡萄，也沒有捏碎它，他要把它放進嘴裡了。這就是我們開發了15個月的成果。(掌聲) 但是，我從理察那裡知道，技術、處理器、感知器和馬達這一類的東西，全都不重要，我還沒見識過整個醫療體系的厲害呢！我來告訴各位一些我們在開發過程中，所遇到的各種令人驚訝的事。在我們以為自己的設計沒什麼問題之後，我們做了許多工程上的標準取捨程序，也就是在四種東西裡面選出三種好的，像是在重量、大小、成本和功能之中進行挑選。我把大家都送上我的飛機，然後告訴他們，我們要飛到華特里德醫院，和那些受傷的士兵訪談。老實說，我們喜不喜歡那些義肢並不重要，國防部喜不喜歡也不重要，當然，當我告訴國防部這個事實時，他們並不高興，但我告訴他們，他們的意見並不重要，我們只重視一種意見，就是那些受傷士兵的意見，他們想不想用才重要。 我告訴我們的工程師：「我們現在要去華特里德醫院，你們會看到很多失去手腳的人，他們可能會很生氣、憤怒或沮喪，我們應該要支持他們，給他們鼓勵，但我們要從他們那裡知道我們到底做得對不對。」當我們走進華特里德醫院之後，我才發現我大錯特錯。我們確實看到很多人，很多失去手腳的人，有人殘餘的肢體有燒傷的痕跡，有人半邊臉不見了，有人的耳朵被燒掉了。 他們都圍坐在一張桌子邊，他們是為我們的到訪而聚集在那裡，所以我們開始問他們問題，像是：「我們還沒辦法做到跟天生的肢體一樣，但我可以讓你做到細部動作控制，或是讓你拿起20公斤重的東西，但沒辦法同時做這二件事。我可以用低耗損率的齒輪讓你快速控制你的義肢，或是讓你產生力量，但沒辦法同時做到這二者。我們希望他們全都能幫我們瞭解他們的需求，但他們表現得太積極了，他們不斷地想有什麼可以幫助我們的。「嗯，如果我這樣做，可以幫到你們嗎？」各位，你們給的夠多了，我們是來幫助你們的，我們需要你們提供資料，我們要知道你們想要什麼。 經過一個半小時之後，有個坐在桌子另一頭的人，他一直沒有說太多話，他斷了一條手臂，就用另一條手臂撐著。我對著桌子另一頭說：「嘿，你沒有說什麼話耶，有沒有什麼是你需要的？」他說：「你知道嗎？我算是這裡面幸運的了，我斷的是右手，還好我是左撇子。」(笑聲)所以，他沒有什麼好說的。他的態度很令人敬佩，就像其他人一樣令人敬佩。他後來發表了一些評論，然後會議就結束了。我們和這些人一一道別，那個人則把自己從椅子上推離開桌子，我們才發現他沒有雙腳。 我們離開了那裡。我那時在想，我們一點也沒有給予他們支持，也沒有鼓勵他們，反而是他們鼓勵了我們；他們還不斷地提供我們意見，這真是太驚人了！所以，我們回到實驗室，工作得更加勤奮、更加快速。接下來我們去拜訪了布魯克軍人醫院，我們也看到許多年輕的士兵，他們的態度真的很令人敬佩。我們又回到了實驗室，我們又工作得更加勤奮。現在我們在進行臨床實驗，有五個人參與實驗，一路走來有不斷的驚喜。我接到一通電話，所以我們就去了華盛頓， 回到華特里德醫院，那裡有一個年輕士兵，在二十多天前被炸傷了。他被送往德國，然後在24小時之後，又從德國被送回華特里德醫院。他就在那裡，他們說我們一定得來這一趟，所以我就去了。他們把他送進一間病房，他失去了雙腳，也失去了二條手臂，只有一邊還有殘餘的一小截肢體。他有半邊臉不見了，但他們說他的視力正在恢復，他還有一隻好的眼睛。他的名字是布蘭登．莫洛克， 他說：「我需要你們的義肢，而且我要訂二個。」我會給你的。這個年輕士兵來自史丹頓島，他說：「在我從軍之前，我有一輛卡車，是手排車，你覺得我還能開嗎？」當然。但我後來想：「要怎麼辦才好啊？」(笑聲)總之，他就像其他失去手腳的士兵一樣，要求並不多，他也想要幫助我們，他告訴我，他想要回去幫忙他的好朋友。 在我來這裡之前，有人幫我安排去了一趟德州，那裡有3500人聚集在退伍軍人協會，有3500人參與這場盛會，他們要幫助所有士兵的家庭，有些士兵死了，有些則像布蘭登一樣，他們要我上台致詞。我說：「我該說些什麼？這可不是什麼愉快的場合，如果你發生這種不幸的事，我當然可以幫你，但是這種義肢絕對不會比天生的手臂來得好。」「你來就是了。」 所以我就去了。我想你們應該猜得到，那裡有許多人正在復原，有些人復原得很好，但總體來說，這些人經過了這些事後，還能保持這種態度，真的很令人敬佩。就因為大家都很關心他們，因此讓他們變得與眾不同。 我該住嘴了，但我要再談一件事，一件我擔心的事。我不認為有人會故意這麼做，但總有人會問：「他們會得到多少錢？」我們早就知道這個國家針對健保制度總是爭論不休，那誰該負起責任？每個人能拿多少補助？誰要來買單？這些都是很難回答的問題，我自己也沒有答案，不是說你是這個國家的國民，你就有義務為每一件事負責任，這絕對不可能。但如果我們能夠更實際一點會更好。 都是不易回答的問題，到處都有持相反意見的人，我不知道這些問題的答案。還有很多更難回答的問題：我們該出兵伊拉克嗎？要怎麼進行撤軍？我們該怎麼做？這些問題絕對都有正反二面的答案，我也不知道該怎麼回答這些問題。這些是政治問題、經濟問題和策略問題，我沒有答案。但讓我說明我的立場：答案很簡單， 我知道在醫療照護方面，這些年輕的士兵該獲得什麼樣的照護，我曾和其中一位士兵聊過，他非常喜歡這種義肢，那遠比一支塑膠棍子外加一個鈎子好上太多了。但在這個房間裡的人，也沒人願意用義肢代替天生的手臂。但我告訴他：「你知道嗎？第一架飛機在1903年時，只飛了30公尺，那是韋伯和歐威爾製造的，就連一隻老得不能再老的鴿子，也不會羨慕這種飛機。但現在我們有了老鷹號戰機、F15和秃鷹號戰機，我從來沒看過有哪一隻鳥可以飛得和馬赫2號一樣高，我想我們最後一定能把這種義肢做得更加完美。」我對那年輕的士兵說：「只要你的朋友開始羨慕你的義肢所能做到的事，或是義肢的種種功能，我就能休息了。但在那之前，我會一直努力工作，直到有那一天為止。」 我認為，我們國家應該繼續這種不同意見的交流，不管是發牢騷或是抱怨，說什麼「我會負責」「你是受害者」一類的，或是抱怨我們的外交政策該何去何從。但在我們發牢騷或抱怨著誰該支出這筆經費、我們會得到什麼的時候，我們是否該想想那些在外戰鬥的士兵，是他們讓我們享有發牢騷和抱怨的特權。我知道該給他們什麼，就是儘可能地以人道方式對待他們，我們應該提供這些義肢給他們。(掌聲)
