Talk	en	zh-tw
dean_ornish_on_the_world_s_killer_diet	With all the legitimate concerns about AIDS and avian flu — and we'll hear about that from the brilliant Dr. Brilliant later today — I want to talk about the other pandemic, which is cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension — all of which are completely preventable for at least 95 percent of people just by changing diet and lifestyle. And what's happening is that there's a globalization of illness occurring, that people are starting to eat like us, and live like us, and die like us. And in one generation, for example, Asia's gone from having one of the lowest rates of heart disease and obesity and diabetes to one of the highest. And in Africa, cardiovascular disease equals the HIV and AIDS deaths in most countries. So there's a critical window of opportunity we have to make an important difference that can affect the lives of literally millions of people, and practice preventive medicine on a global scale. Heart and blood vessel diseases still kill more people — not only in this country, but also worldwide — than everything else combined, and yet it's completely preventable for almost everybody. It's not only preventable; it's actually reversible. And for the last almost 29 years, we've been able to show that by simply changing diet and lifestyle, using these very high-tech, expensive, state-of-the-art measures to prove how powerful these very simple and low-tech and low-cost interventions can be like — quantitative arteriography, before and after a year, and cardiac PET scans. We showed a few months ago — we published the first study showing you can actually stop or reverse the progression of prostate cancer by making changes in diet and lifestyle, and 70 percent regression in the tumor growth, or inhibition of the tumor growth, compared to only nine percent in the control group. And in the MRI and MR spectroscopy here, the prostate tumor activity is shown in red — you can see it diminishing after a year. Now there is an epidemic of obesity: two-thirds of adults and 15 percent of kids. What's really concerning to me is that diabetes has increased 70 percent in the past 10 years, and this may be the first generation in which our kids live a shorter life span than we do. That's pitiful, and it's preventable. Now these are not election returns, these are the people — the number of the people who are obese by state, beginning in '85, '86, '87 — these are from the CDC website — '88, '89, '90, '91 — you get a new category — '92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, 2000, 2001 — it gets worse. We're kind of devolving. (Laughter) Now what can we do about this? Well, you know, the diet that we've found that can reverse heart disease and cancer is an Asian diet. But the people in Asia are starting to eat like we are, which is why they're starting to get sick like we are. So I've been working with a lot of the big food companies. They can make it fun and sexy and hip and crunchy and convenient to eat healthier foods, like — I chair the advisory boards to McDonald's, and PepsiCo, and ConAgra, and Safeway, and soon Del Monte, and they're finding that it's good business. The salads that you see at McDonald's came from the work — they're going to have an Asian salad. At Pepsi, two-thirds of their revenue growth came from their better foods. And so if we can do that, then we can free up resources for buying drugs that you really do need for treating AIDS and HIV and malaria and for preventing avian flu. Thank you.	雖然所有對於愛滋病和禽流感的擔心都是合理的 —今天稍晚，我們都將會聽到優秀的 Brilliant 醫師的演說 —我想要談談另一個大流行，那就是心血管疾病、糖尿病、高血壓 —95% 以上這些疾病的患者完全是可以預防的，只要改變飲食習慣與生活作息。 一種疾病全球化的現象正在發生，人們開始以我們的方式飲食、生活，也以與我們相同的方式死亡。舉例來說，才短短一個世代，亞洲人罹患心臟病、肥胖與糖尿病的機率便已經從最低族群爬升到領先族群之一。在非洲，多數國家因為心血管疾病而死亡的人數等同於因為愛滋病毒而罹患愛滋病的死亡人數。因此現在是個關鍵的時刻，我們必須做出重要的改變，這個改變將能夠影響上百萬人的生命，那就是以全球性的規模，來實施預行醫學制度。那就是以全球性的規模，來實施預行醫學制度。 心血管疾病導致的死亡人數 —不僅僅是在這個國家而已，全世界皆然— 比其他所有疾病加起來還高，但是對個人來說，它幾乎是可以完全被預防的。不但可以被預防，事實上還能反轉疾病進程。在過去將近 29 年中，我們已經能夠證明只要改變飲食和生活作息，我們使用這些高科技、昂貴的、最前衛的方法來證明這些非常簡單、原始、低成本的治療方法的強大威力。定量動脈造影術，一年前後，還有心藏正子掃描。 數個月前，我們證明 — 我們發表了首篇研究顯示，你能夠停止或是反轉攝護腺癌的進程，單單藉由改變飲食及生活習慣，70% 的腫瘤縮小或是生長停止，相對之下，控制組只有 9%。相對之下，控制組只有 9%。在這邊的磁共振造影與光譜分析中，攝護腺腫瘤的活動以紅色顯示，你可以看到它在一年之後，顯著的減少。 肥胖問題在今日非常的流行。三分之二的成人與15% 的孩童有肥胖問題。我真正擔心的是在過去十年中，糖尿病患者增加了 70%，而且這個世代將有可能成為第一個後代壽命比我們這一代短的世代。這真可憐，這是可以被防範的。這真可憐，這是可以被防範的。這些不是選舉結果報告，這些是各州肥胖人口數統計，從 85, 86, 87 年開始，這個資料取自美國疾病管制暨預防中心網站 — 88, 89, 90 —一個新的分類被制定 — 92, 93, 94, 95, 96,97, 98, 99, 2000, 2001 — 愈來愈糟。我們一直在退化。 我們該怎麼辦？這麼嘛，你知道，我們發現亞洲飲食可以反轉心臟疾病和癌症的產生。亞洲飲食可以反轉心臟疾病和癌症的產生。但是亞洲人的飲食開始與我們愈來愈接近，這也是為什麼，他們開始會罹患跟我們一樣的疾病。這也是為什麼，他們開始會罹患跟我們一樣的疾病。我嘗試跟許多食品大廠合作。他們讓吃健康食物這件事，變得有趣、性感、流行、有口感又方便，例如：我擔任麥當勞諮詢董事會的主席，還有百事可樂、康尼格拉食品、Safeway 超市、台爾蒙食品也即將加入，他們發現這個市場商機很大。麥當勞的沙拉就是我們的成果，他們將要銷售亞洲式沙拉。在百事可樂公司，三分之二的營收成長來自於他們更健康的產品。 而且如果我們可以持續這麼做，我們將能節省購買藥品的資源，這樣你就能去購買例如愛滋病、瘧疾或是禽流感等等，你真正需要的藥物。謝謝各位。
