Talk	en	zh-tw
dean_kamen_previews_a_new_prosthetic_arm	"I got a visit almost exactly a year ago, a little over a year ago, from a very senior person at the Department of Defense. Came to see me and said, ""1,600 of the kids that we've sent out have come back missing at least one full arm. Whole arm. Shoulder disarticulation. And we're doing the same thing we did for — more or less, that we've done since the Civil War, a stick and a hook. And they deserve more than that."" And literally, this guy sat in my office in New Hampshire and said, ""I want you to give me something that we can put on these kids that'll pick up a raisin or a grape off a table, they'll be able to put it in their mouth without destroying either one, and they'll be able to know the difference without looking at it."" You know, had efferent, afferent, and haptic response. He finishes explaining that, and I'm waiting for the big 300 pound paper proposal, and he said, ""That's what I want from you."" I said, ""Look, you're nuts. That technology's just not available right now. And it can't be done. Not in an envelope of a human arm, with 21 degrees of freedom, from your shoulder to your fingertips."" He said, ""About two dozen of these 1,600 kids have come back bilateral. You think it's bad to lose one arm? That's an inconvenience compared to having both of them gone."" I got a day job, and my nights and weekends are already filled up with things like, let's supply water to the world, and power to the world, and educate all the kids, which, Chris, I will not talk about. I don't need another mission. I keep thinking about these kids with no arms. He says to me, ""We've done some work around the country. We've got some pretty amazing neurology and other people."" I said, ""I'll take a field trip, I'll go see what you got."" Over the next month I visited lots of places, some out here, around the country, found the best of the best. I went down to Washington. I saw these guys, and said, ""I did what you asked me. I looked at what's out there. I still think you're nuts. But not as nuts as I thought."" I put a team together, a little over 13 months ago, got up to 20 some-odd people. We said, we're going to build a device that does what he wants. We have 14 out of the 21 degrees of freedom; you don't need the ones in the last two fingers. We put this thing together. A couple of weeks ago we took it down to Walter Reed, which is unfortunately more in the news these days. We showed it to a bunch of guys. One guy who described himself as being lucky, because he lost his left arm, and he's a righty. He sat at a table with seven or eight of these other guys. Said he was lucky, because he had his good arm, and then he pushed himself back from the table. He had no legs. These kids have attitudes that you just can't believe. So I'm going to show you now, without the skin on it, a 30-second piece, and then I'm done. But understand what you're looking at we made small enough to fit on a 50th percentile female, so that we could put it in any of these people. It's going to go inside something that we use in CAT scans and MRIs of whatever is their good arm, to make silicon rubber, then coat it, and paint it in 3D — exact mirror image of their other limb. So, you won't see all the really cool stuff that's in this series elastic set of 14 actuators, each one which has its own capability to sense temperature and pressure. It also has a pneumatic cuff that holds it on, so the more they put themselves under load, the more it attaches. They take the load off, and it becomes, again, compliant. I'm going to show you a guy doing a couple of simple things with this that we demonstrated in Washington. Can we look at this thing? Watch the fingers grab. The thumb comes up. Wrist. This weighs 6.9 pounds. Going to scratch his nose. It's got 14 active degrees of freedom. Now he's going to pick up a pen with his opposed thumb and index finger. Now he's going to put that down, pick up a piece of paper, rotate all the degrees of freedom in his hand and wrist, and read it. (Applause)"	大約在一年以前，有一個人來找我應該比一年還要再多一點，他是國防部的一個長官他來找我說：我們送出去的士兵裡有1千6百個士兵回來的時候少了一支或二支手臂一整支手臂，從肩膀這裡斷掉但我們能提供的協助比以前好不到那裡去就像在南北戰爭時期，這些士兵只能得到一支木棍和一個鈎子但是這些士兵應該得到更好的醫療選擇然後，坐在我新罕布夏州辦公室裡的男人說我希望你能設計一種義肢，讓我們能裝在這些士兵身上讓他們能拿起桌上的葡萄乾或葡萄然後輕柔地放進嘴裡，不會捏碎任何一個也能不用看就能透過義肢來分辨二者的差別大概就是要具備傳出、傳入的功能，還要有觸覺 他解釋完以後，我還以為他會給我一份重達三百磅的文件結果他說：我希望你能幫忙我說：我覺得你瘋了，現在根本沒有這種技術也不可能辦到我不可能把這種裝置放在義肢裡還要讓義肢可以從肩膀到手指自由轉動21度他說：在這1千6百個士兵裡，大約有24人失去了雙臂你以為少了一支手臂很糟嗎？跟失去雙臂的人比起來，那只是有點不方便而已我那時候白天有一份正職晚上的時間則花在替這個世界思考如何解決乾旱、增加供電普及率、兒童的教育等Chris你放心，我不會談這些問題。我可不需要另一份工作 我還是持續在思考這些士兵失去手臂的問題他對我說：我們已經有一些初步的研究還有一些很令人驚訝的神經學成果我說：我會過去你那裡一趟，看看你們有些什麼成果接下來的一個月，我去了很多地方，全國各地都跑遍了拜訪了許多頂尖專家我後來去了華盛頓，見了這個人，我說我依照你要求的做了，也看了許多人的成果我還是覺得你瘋了，但沒有我想得那麼瘋 大約在13個月之前，我組成了一個團隊聚集了大約20位頂尖人才我們想要做出那個人要的義肢雖然達不到21度，但我們做出一個可以自由活動14度的義肢因為最後二個手指較少用到我們把各自的成果結合起來幾個星期前，我們把義肢送到Walter Reed陸軍醫院測試很不幸的這家醫院最近常上新聞我們把這種義肢拿給許多人看其中有一個人自稱他很幸運因為他失去的是左臂，而他是右撇子他和其他七八個失去手臂的人坐在一起他說他很幸運，因為他還有一支好的手臂然後他將椅子推離開桌子，我們才發現他沒有腳這些士兵面對人生的態度真的很讓人敬佩 現在我要給你們看一段30秒的影片是還沒有包覆皮膚的義肢，影片結束我的演說就結束了但是請瞭解一點：你們所看到的這種義肢尺寸較小，是一般女人的尺寸所以我們可以把這種義肢裝在任何一個士兵身上我們會用CAT或是MRI等掃瞄技術掃瞄他們另一支健全的手臂用以製造出一層矽膠皮膚，然後用3D技術上色讓義肢看起來就像他們另一支健全的手臂所以你不會看到很炫的科技裝置，在義肢裡其實有14組伸縮裝置每一組都可以感知溫度與壓力我們還設計了一個氣壓連接器來連接肩膀所以當他們拿的東西愈重，義肢與肩膀就連接得愈緊當把重物放下時，就會回復原來的柔順影片裡的人會做一些簡單的動作這是我們在華盛頓播放過的影片，現在來看看 請看手指抓取動作，拇指往上，接下來是手腕瓶子重6.9磅抓鼻子這支義肢有14度的自由活動範圍現在他要用拇指和食指拿起一支筆然後放下，拿起一張紙調整手和手腕的角度，然後開始閱讀(掌聲)
