Talk	en	zh-tw
debate_does_the_world_need_nuclear_energy	"Chris Anderson: We're having a debate. The debate is over the proposition: ""What the world needs now is nuclear energy."" True or false? And before we have the debate, I'd like to actually take a show of hands — on balance, right now, are you for or against this? So those who are ""yes,"" raise your hand. ""For."" Okay, hands down. Those who are against, raise your hands. Okay, I'm reading that at about 75 to 25 in favor at the start. Which means we're going to take a vote at the end and see how that shifts, if at all. So here's the format: They're going to have six minutes each, and then after one little, quick exchange between them, I want two people on each side of this debate in the audience to have 30 seconds to make one short, crisp, pungent, powerful point. So, in favor of the proposition, possibly shockingly, is one of, truly, the founders of the environmental movement, a long-standing TEDster, the founder of the Whole Earth Catalog, someone we all know and love, Stewart Brand. Stewart Brand: Whoa. (Applause) The saying is that with climate, those who know the most are the most worried. With nuclear, those who know the most are the least worried. A classic example is James Hansen, a NASA climatologist pushing for 350 parts per million carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. He came out with a wonderful book recently called ""Storms of My Grandchildren."" And Hansen is hard over for nuclear power, as are most climatologists who are engaging this issue seriously. This is the design situation: a planet that is facing climate change and is now half urban. Look at the client base for this. Five out of six of us live in the developing world. We are moving to cities. We are moving up in the world. And we are educating our kids, having fewer kids, basically good news all around. But we move to cities, toward the bright lights, and one of the things that is there that we want, besides jobs, is electricity. And if it isn't easily gotten, we'll go ahead and steal it. This is one of the most desired things by poor people all over the world, in the cities and in the countryside. Electricity for cities, at its best, is what's called baseload electricity. That's where it is on all the time. And so far there are only three major sources of that — coal and gas, hydro-electric, which in most places is maxed-out — and nuclear. I would love to have something in the fourth place here, but in terms of constant, clean, scalable energy, [solar] and wind and the other renewables aren't there yet because they're inconstant. Nuclear is and has been for 40 years. Now, from an environmental standpoint, the main thing you want to look at is what happens to the waste from nuclear and from coal, the two major sources of electricity. If all of your electricity in your lifetime came from nuclear, the waste from that lifetime of electricity would go in a Coke can — a pretty heavy Coke can, about two pounds. But one day of coal adds up to one hell of a lot of carbon dioxide in a normal one-gigawatt coal-fired plant. Then what happens to the waste? The nuclear waste typically goes into a dry cask storage out back of the parking lot at the reactor site because most places don't have underground storage yet. It's just as well, because it can stay where it is. While the carbon dioxide, vast quantities of it, gigatons, goes into the atmosphere where we can't get it back — yet — and where it is causing the problems that we're most concerned about. So when you add up the greenhouse gases in the lifetime of these various energy sources, nuclear is down there with wind and hydro, below solar and way below, obviously, all the fossil fuels. Wind is wonderful; I love wind. I love being around these big wind generators. But one of the things we're discovering is that wind, like solar, is an actually relatively dilute source of energy. And so it takes a very large footprint on the land, a very large footprint in terms of materials, five to 10 times what you'd use for nuclear, and typically to get one gigawatt of electricity is on the order of 250 square miles of wind farm. In places like Denmark and Germany, they've maxed out on wind already. They've run out of good sites. The power lines are getting overloaded. And you peak out. Likewise, with solar, especially here in California, we're discovering that the 80 solar farm schemes that are going forward want to basically bulldoze 1,000 square miles of southern California desert. Well, as an environmentalist, we would rather that didn't happen. It's okay on frapped-out agricultural land. Solar's wonderful on rooftops. But out in the landscape, one gigawatt is on the order of 50 square miles of bulldozed desert. When you add all these things up — Saul Griffith did the numbers and figured out what would it take to get 13 clean terawatts of energy from wind, solar and biofuels, and that area would be roughly the size of the United States, an area he refers to as ""Renewistan."" A guy who's added it up all this very well is David Mackay, a physicist in England, and in his wonderful book, ""Sustainable Energy,"" among other things, he says, ""I'm not trying to be pro-nuclear. I'm just pro-arithmetic."" (Laughter) In terms of weapons, the best disarmament tool so far is nuclear energy. We have been taking down the Russian warheads, turning it into electricity. Ten percent of American electricity comes from decommissioned warheads. We haven't even started the American stockpile. I think of most interest to a TED audience would be the new generation of reactors that are very small, down around 10 to 125 megawatts. This is one from Toshiba. Here's one the Russians are already building that floats on a barge. And that would be very interesting in the developing world. Typically, these things are put in the ground. They're referred to as nuclear batteries. They're incredibly safe, weapons proliferation-proof and all the rest of it. Here is a commercial version from New Mexico called the Hyperion, and another one from Oregon called NuScale. Babcock & Wilcox that make nuclear reactors, here's an integral fast reactor. Thorium reactor that Nathan Myhrvold's involved in. The governments of the world are going to have to decide that coals need to be made expensive, and these will go ahead. And here's the future. (Applause) CA: Okay. Okay. (Applause) So arguing against, a man who's been at the nitty, gritty heart of the energy debate and the climate change debate for years. In 2000, he discovered that soot was probably the second leading cause of global warming, after CO2. His team have been making detailed calculations of the relative impacts of different energy sources. His first time at TED, possibly a disadvantage — we shall see — from Stanford, Professor Mark Jacobson. Good luck. Mark Jacobson: Thank you. (Applause) So my premise here is that nuclear energy puts out more carbon dioxide, puts out more air pollutants, enhances mortality more and takes longer to put up than real renewable energy systems, namely wind, solar, geothermal power, hydro-tidal wave power. And it also enhances nuclear weapons proliferation. So let's start just by looking at the CO2 emissions from the life cycle. CO2e emissions are equivalent emissions of all the greenhouse gases and particles that cause warming and converted to CO2. And if you look, wind and concentrated solar have the lowest CO2 emissions, if you look at the graph. Nuclear — there are two bars here. One is a low estimate, and one is a high estimate. The low estimate is the nuclear energy industry estimate of nuclear. The high is the average of 103 scientific, peer-reviewed studies. And this is just the CO2 from the life cycle. If we look at the delays, it takes between 10 and 19 years to put up a nuclear power plant from planning to operation. This includes about three and a half to six years for a site permit. and another two and a half to four years for a construction permit and issue, and then four to nine years for actual construction. And in China, right now, they're putting up five gigawatts of nuclear. And the average, just for the construction time of these, is 7.1 years on top of any planning times. While you're waiting around for your nuclear, you have to run the regular electric power grid, which is mostly coal in the United States and around the world. And the chart here shows the difference between the emissions from the regular grid, resulting if you use nuclear, or anything else, versus wind, CSP or photovoltaics. Wind takes about two to five years on average, same as concentrated solar and photovoltaics. So the difference is the opportunity cost of using nuclear versus wind, or something else. So if you add these two together, alone, you can see a separation that nuclear puts out at least nine to 17 times more CO2 equivalent emissions than wind energy. And this doesn't even account for the footprint on the ground. If you look at the air pollution health effects, this is the number of deaths per year in 2020 just from vehicle exhaust. Let's say we converted all the vehicles in the United States to battery electric vehicles, hydrogen fuel cell vehicles or flex fuel vehicles run on E85. Well, right now in the United States, 50 to 100,000 people die per year from air pollution, and vehicles are about 25,000 of those. In 2020, the number will go down to 15,000 due to improvements. And so, on the right, you see gasoline emissions, the death rates of 2020. If you go to corn or cellulosic ethanol, you'd actually increase the death rate slightly. If you go to nuclear, you do get a big reduction, but it's not as much as with wind and concentrated solar. Now if you consider the fact that nuclear weapons proliferation is associated with nuclear energy proliferation, because we know for example, India and Pakistan developed nuclear weapons secretly by enriching uranium in nuclear energy facilities. North Korea did that to some extent. Iran is doing that right now. And Venezuela would be doing it if they started with their nuclear energy facilities. If you do a large scale expansion of nuclear energy across the world, and as a result there was just one nuclear bomb created that was used to destroy a city such as Mumbai or some other big city, megacity, the additional death rates due to this averaged over 30 years and then scaled to the population of the U.S. would be this. So, do we need this? The next thing is: What about the footprint? Stewart mentioned the footprint. Actually, the footprint on the ground for wind is by far the smallest of any energy source in the world. That, because the footprint, as you can see, is just the pole touching the ground. And you can power the entire U.S. vehicle fleet with 73,000 to 145,000 five-megawatt wind turbines. That would take between one and three square kilometers of footprint on the ground, entirely. The spacing is something else. That's the footprint that is always being confused. People confuse footprint with spacing. As you can see from these pictures, the spacing between can be used for multiple purposes including agricultural land, range land or open space. Over the ocean, it's not even land. Now if we look at nuclear — (Laughter) With nuclear, what do we have? We have facilities around there. You also have a buffer zone that's 17 square kilometers. And you have the uranium mining that you have to deal with. Now if we go to the area, lots is worse than nuclear or wind. For example, cellulosic ethanol, to power the entire U.S. vehicle fleet, this is how much land you would need. That's cellulosic, second generation biofuels from prairie grass. Here's corn ethanol. It's smaller. This is based on ranges from data, but if you look at nuclear, it would be the size of Rhode Island to power the U.S. vehicle fleet. For wind, there's a larger area, but much smaller footprint. And of course, with wind, you could put it all over the East Coast, offshore theoretically, or you can split it up. And now, if you go back to looking at geothermal, it's even smaller than both, and solar is slightly larger than the nuclear spacing, but it's still pretty small. And this is to power the entire U.S. vehicle fleet. To power the entire world with 50 percent wind, you would need about one percent of world land. Matching the reliability, base load is actually irrelevant. We want to match the hour-by-hour power supply. You can do that by combining renewables. This is from real data in California, looking at wind data and solar data. And it considers just using existing hydro to match the hour-by-hour power demand. Here are the world wind resources. There's five to 10 times more wind available worldwide than we need for all the world. So then here's the final ranking. And one last slide I just want to show. This is the choice: You can either have wind or nuclear. If you use wind, you guarantee ice will last. Nuclear, the time lag alone will allow the Arctic to melt and other places to melt more. And we can guarantee a clean, blue sky or an uncertain future with nuclear power. (Applause) CA: All right. So while they're having their comebacks on each other — and yours is slightly short because you slightly overran — I need two people from either side. So if you're for this, if you're for nuclear power, put up two hands. If you're against, put up one. And I want two of each for the mics. Now then, you guys have — you have a minute comeback on him to pick up a point he said, challenge it, whatever. SB: I think a point of difference we're having, Mark, has to do with weapons and energy. These diagrams that show that nuclear is somehow putting out a lot of greenhouse gases — a lot of those studies include, ""Well of course war will be inevitable and therefore we'll have cities burning and stuff like that,"" which is kind of finessing it a little bit, I think. The reality is that there's, what, 21 nations that have nuclear power? Of those, seven have nuclear weapons. In every case, they got the weapons before they got the nuclear power. There are two nations, North Korea and Israel, that have nuclear weapons and don't have nuclear power at all. The places that we would most like to have really clean energy occur are China, India, Europe, North America, all of which have sorted out their situation in relation to nuclear weapons. So that leaves a couple of places like Iran, maybe Venezuela, that you would like to have very close surveillance of anything that goes on with fissile stuff. Pushing ahead with nuclear power will mean we really know where all of the fissile material is, and we can move toward zero weapons left, once we know all that. CA: Mark, 30 seconds, either on that or on anything Stewart said. MJ: Well we know India and Pakistan had nuclear energy first, and then they developed nuclear weapons secretly in the factories. So the other thing is, we don't need nuclear energy. There's plenty of solar and wind. You can make it reliable, as I showed with that diagram. That's from real data. And this is an ongoing research. This is not rocket science. Solving the world's problems can be done, if you really put your mind to it and use clean, renewable energy. There's absolutely no need for nuclear power. (Applause) CA: We need someone for. Rod Beckstrom: Thank you Chris. I'm Rod Beckstrom, CEO of ICANN. I've been involved in global warming policy since 1994, when I joined the board of Environmental Defense Fund that was one of the crafters of the Kyoto Protocol. And I want to support Stewart Brand's position. I've come around in the last 10 years. I used to be against nuclear power. I'm now supporting Stewart's position, softly, from a risk-management standpoint, agreeing that the risks of overheating the planet outweigh the risk of nuclear incident, which certainly is possible and is a very real problem. However, I think there may be a win-win solution here where both parties can win this debate, and that is, we face a situation where it's carbon caps on this planet or die. And in the United States Senate, we need bipartisan support — only one or two votes are needed — to move global warming through the Senate, and this room can help. So if we get that through, then Mark will solve these problems. Thanks Chris. CA: Thank you Rod Beckstrom. Against. David Fanton: Hi, I'm David Fanton. I just want to say a couple quick things. The first is: be aware of the propaganda. The propaganda from the industry has been very, very strong. And we have not had the other side of the argument fully aired so that people can draw their own conclusions. Be very aware of the propaganda. Secondly, think about this. If we build all these nuclear power plants, all that waste is going to be on hundreds, if not thousands, of trucks and trains, moving through this country every day. Tell me they're not going to have accidents. Tell me that those accidents aren't going to put material into the environment that is poisonous for hundreds of thousands of years. And then tell me that each and every one of those trucks and trains isn't a potential terrorist target. CA: Thank you. For. Anyone else for? Go. Alex: Hi, I'm Alex. I just wanted to say, I'm, first of all, renewable energy's biggest fan. I've got solar PV on my roof. I've got a hydro conversion at a watermill that I own. And I'm, you know, very much ""pro"" that kind of stuff. However, there's a basic arithmetic problem here. The capability of the sun shining, the wind blowing and the rain falling, simply isn't enough to add up. So if we want to keep the lights on, we actually need a solution which is going to keep generating all of the time. I campaigned against nuclear weapons in the '80s, and I continue to do so now. But we've got an opportunity to recycle them into something more useful that enables us to get energy all of the time. And, ultimately, the arithmetic problem isn't going to go away. We're not going to get enough energy from renewables alone. We need a solution that generates all of the time. If we're going to keep the lights on, nuclear is that solution. CA: Thank you. Anyone else against? Man: The last person who was in favor made the premise that we don't have enough alternative renewable resources. And our ""against"" proponent up here made it very clear that we actually do. And so the fallacy that we need this resource and we can actually make it in a time frame that is meaningful is not possible. I will also add one other thing. Ray Kurzweil and all the other talks — we know that the stick is going up exponentially. So you can't look at state-of-the-art technologies in renewables and say, ""That's all we have."" Because five years from now, it will blow you away what we'll actually have as alternatives to this horrible, disastrous nuclear power. CA: Point well made. Thank you. (Applause) So each of you has really just a couple sentences — 30 seconds each to sum up. Your final pitch, Stewart. SB: I loved your ""It all balances out"" chart that you had there. It was a sunny day and a windy night. And just now in England they had a cold spell. All of the wind in the entire country shut down for a week. None of those things were stirring. And as usual, they had to buy nuclear power from France. Two gigawatts comes through the Chunnel. This keeps happening. I used to worry about the 10,000 year factor. And the fact is, we're going to use the nuclear waste we have for fuel in the fourth generation of reactors that are coming along. And especially the small reactors need to go forward. I heard from Nathan Myhrvold — and I think here's the action point — it'll take an act of Congress to make the Nuclear Regulatory Commission start moving quickly on these small reactors, which we need very much, here and in the world. (Applause) MJ: So we've analyzed the hour-by-hour power demand and supply, looking at solar, wind, using data for California. And you can match that demand, hour-by-hour, for the whole year almost. Now, with regard to the resources, we've developed the first wind map of the world, from data alone, at 80 meters. We know what the wind resources are. You can cover 15 percent. Fifteen percent of the entire U.S. has wind at fast enough speeds to be cost-competitive. And there's much more solar than there is wind. There's plenty of resource. You can make it reliable. CA: Okay. So, thank you, Mark. (Applause) So if you were in Palm Springs ... (Laughter) (Applause) Shameless. Shameless. Shameless. (Applause) So, people of the TED community, I put it to you that what the world needs now is nuclear energy. All those in favor, raise your hands. (Shouts) And all those against. Ooooh. Now that is — my take on that ... Just put up ... Hands up, people who changed their minds during the debate, who voted differently. Those of you who changed your mind in favor of ""for"" put your hands up. Okay. So here's the read on it. Both people won supporters, but on my count, the mood of the TED community shifted from about 75 to 25 to about 65 to 35 in favor, in favor. You both won. I congratulate both of you. Thank you for that. (Applause)"	我們有一場辯論這場辯論的主題是：「這個世界需要核能—是對還是錯？」在辯論開始之前我想讓現場各位簡單表決一下總體來說，目前你是站在那一方?贊成核能的人，請舉手好的，請把手放下反對核能的人，請舉手嗯，從舉手的數量來看目前贊成與反對的比例大約是75:25辯論完後，我們會再作一次統計看是不是有所改變現在說明規則：雙方各有6分鐘一方說完馬上換另一方我會從現場觀眾挑出2位支持者跟反對者這4位有30秒表達支持論點的理由 有點不可思議，今天的辯論正方他是環保運動的創始者之一他多次出現在 TED 演講，同時也是雜誌《Whole Earth Catalog》的創辦人我們熟悉且敬愛的，史都華特-布蘭德 哇嗚(掌聲)說到氣候，瞭解氣候的專家一定都非常擔心氣候問題但是講到核能，最瞭解它的專家卻一點都不擔心它一個典型的例子就是，詹姆斯-漢森他是NASA的氣候學家並極力呼籲將大氣中的二氧化碳降到 350PPM 以下（註：可抵抗暖化的濃度）他最近推出了一本書書名《子孫的風暴》（Storms of My Grandchildren）漢森致力研究核能就像許多氣候學家正專注這個問題 現在的情況是地球正在面對氣候改變都市面積幾乎佔了陸地的一半在這種情況下有6分之5的人（83%）居住在開發中國家我們會往城市集中，尋找更適合生活的地方我們會給予下一代教育生育率下降這些，基本上都是不錯的消息我們會往城市光亮的地方聚集在城市裡，除了工作，另一個我們要的東西就是電力如果電力不易取得，我們會用偷的對於全世界住在城市和鄉間的窮人電力是他們迫切需求的必需品之一一個城市所需的電力我們稱之為基本負載電力基本負載電力是指能維繫生活所需的基本電力至今我們主要用 3 種發電方式煤氣發電、水力發電這二者佔了大部分還有一項是核能發電我希望這張圖表還能加上第4項這一項是穩定、乾淨、可擴展的能源太陽能、風力、以及其他再生能源都還不算是這種能源，因為他們都不夠穩定迄今，核能的發展已 40 年了 目前，站在環境保護的立場來看你會特別注意我們在核能發電和煤炭發電上消耗了哪些東西，產生了哪些東西如果你一輩子所用的電力都來自核能為了產生這些發電量所造成的廢棄物大概只有一個可樂罐大小有點重的可樂罐，大約 2 磅不過在一個發電量十億瓦特的煤炭發電廠發電一天所產生的二氧化碳會多到嚇死人這些廢棄物會到哪裡去?從反應爐取出來的核廢料一般會儲存在一個乾燥桶裡然後放在反應爐附近的空地目前還沒有太多的地下儲存廠但也無傷大雅，至少這些廢料不會亂跑當超多的二氧化碳達到數10億噸的份量跑到我們的大氣層我們就沒辦法再將它們回收這將引起許多我們迫切關心的問題當用不同發電方式產生你一生的用電然後計算這過程所排放的溫室氣體核能產生的溫室氣體，低於風力和水力低於太陽能，也低於所有化石燃料 風力發電是很棒的，我很愛風力我也喜歡那些巨大的風力發電機不過我們發現一件事風力，就像太陽能一樣發電過程都會稀釋功率，浪費能量風力發電需要很大的土地面積建造這些高塔也需要許多資源大概是核能發電所需的5到10倍一般而言，要獲取十億瓦特的發電量風力發電大概需要250平方英哩的土地（約2.5個台北市）有些國家，像是丹麥和德國他們幾乎都用風力發電他們幾乎把可能的地點都用盡了電力網已經超出負荷達到巔峰還有，太陽能在加州我們發現在南方沙漠當地為了建造80座太陽能發電廠用推土機剷出1000平方英里的土地嗯，作為一個環保人士，我們不希望這種事情發生這個地方還可以開發成農業區太陽能電版可以放在屋頂上若在平地上蓋十億瓦特的太陽能電廠就需要剷平50平方英里的沙漠 把這些成本加一加薩羅·格里菲斯做了一些統計如果想要產生13太瓦（1太瓦=10兆瓦）的潔淨能源像是來自風、太陽能、或是生質燃料大概需要一整個美國的土地面積這種地區叫「再生能源區」（註：Renewistan）有個叫大衛·麥凱的人，細算出這些成本來自英格蘭的物理學家在他的暢銷著作《永續能源》中裡面提到「我不是支持核能，我只是喜歡算術」 (笑聲) 如果談到武器方面最棒的裁軍方式就是核能發電了我們已經拆除了許多俄國的核子彈頭然後把它轉為發電用美國有10%的發電量就是來自這些俄國的核子武器我們甚至還沒使用自己的退役核子彈頭我想在場的聽眾都應該有興趣見證新一代的核子反應爐它非常小可以產生10兆瓦特到125兆瓦特的電量這是東芝研發的（Toshiba）俄國人利用它來作為貨運船的動力來源這對開發中國家來說，是很有意思的一般而言，這種設備用在陸地上比較多這就像核能電池它非常安全核武器的擴散會因此得到緩和這是一個商業化的核能電池由新墨西哥州的 Hyperion 企業所研發這個是由奧勒崗州的 NuScale 企業所研發Babcock & Wilcox 是製作核子反應爐的公司這是一個快速反應器前微軟技術長，內森·麥沃爾德也投資發展釷反應器這世界上的一些政府都必須決定要讓煤炭越來越貴，還是發展核能這將是未來值得關注的地方 (掌聲) 很好，很好(掌聲)接下來，反方辯士他總是陳述事實真相，擁有堅毅的心這幾年來，他參與了許多能源與氣候變遷議題的討論在2000年時，他發現了煤煙（soot）可能是僅次於二氧化碳的暖化元兇之一他的研究團隊針對各種發電方式的環境影響做了詳細的計算這是他第一次出席 TED 大會，也許比較吃虧，看他表現如何來自史丹佛大學的馬克·雅各布森教授。祝好運 謝謝(掌聲)我的認定是，核能會製造更多二氧化碳更多的空氣污染增加死亡率，而且相較於風力、太陽能地熱能、潮汐能等等再生能源核能需要更長的建造時間核能發電也會增加核子武器的擴散讓我們先來觀察各種發電廠生命周期的二氧化碳排放量CO2e是指（註：CO2e = 二氧化碳等價量）那些會造成地球暖化的溫室氣體、微粒（註：溫室氣體有6～7種）把它們轉換成等效的CO2排放量你能發現，風力和太陽能擁有最低的二氧化碳排放量看到核能的那處，顯示2個直條圖一條是估計最低排放量，另一個是最高估計量最低估計量是核能產業人員計算的最高的估計量是來自103個科學研究報告的平均數值這裡只計算發電廠從使用到廢棄所產生的二氧化碳 建造一座核能電廠，如果有點延誤的話從營運的事前規劃到電廠的建造完成大概需要10到19年取得土地的許可大概就要 3.5 年到 6 年還要再花 2.5 年到 4 年去取得建造許可然後再花 4 到 9 年去真正動工建造現在在中國有5個十億瓦特的核能發電廠平均建造這些核能發電廠所需時間大約是 7.1 年是整個過程中最漫長的部分當你在等待使用核能電力時這段過渡期還是要使用一般的電路線這表示要繼續使用煤炭發電這張圖表顯示了如果建造核能，或是其他電廠像是風力、集光式太陽能、光電太陽能使用前的建造時間所產生的溫室氣體排放量風力發電平均需要 2 到 5 年的建造時間跟集光式太陽能和光電太陽能一樣所以這種機會成本，就是使用核能與其他發電方式的差異之處把使用核能跟風力的機會成本相比，甚至把任 2 種的機會成本加起來核能發電所造成的二氧化碳排放量都至少比風力高達 9 倍到 17 倍這些甚至還沒計算核能電廠所要佔據的土地面積 若你想看看空氣污染對人體健康的影響這張圖顯示到2020年時每年因汽車排放物致死的人數假設我們將全美的汽車都換成電池動力、氫燃料電池車或是混合燃料等等不同燃料來驅動在美國，每年因空污死亡的人數隨空汙來源的不同，死亡人數有50人到10萬人不等汽車的空污大約會導致2萬5千人喪命不過到了2020年，因為交通工具的改善這個數字會降到1萬5千人圖表最右邊，是到2020年用石油當汽車燃料所導致的平均每年死亡數如果使用的是玉米或是纖維乙醇燃料（註：右2右3）死亡數會稍微增加如果使用核能當汽車燃料這死亡數會大大削減（註：右5）但是削減的數量完全比不過風力和太陽能 你會考慮到核子武器的擴展是跟我們使用核能發電的擴展有正相關因為我們都知道印度和巴基斯坦都偷偷地從核能發電廠煉出的濃縮鈾來發展核子武器北韓就是用這種方式發展核子武器伊朗正在這麼做若委內瑞拉啟動核能電廠他們也會循此方式製造核子武器如果世界各地都大肆擴展核子發電那麼，結果就是將會製造出可以摧毀像孟買或是其他百萬人口城市的核子炸彈因核子彈所炸死的死亡數超過過去30年美國空污所導致的死亡數我們真的需要核能嗎? 電廠佔地面積的又怎麼說?剛剛史都華特提到的事實上，風力發電場佔地面積是低於全世界任何一種發電方式因為你看圖就可以發現風力發電機接觸到地面的只有那根水泥柱你可以用這些7萬3千座到14萬5千座的5百萬瓦特風力渦輪用以驅使全美的汽車把這些風力發電的水泥柱占地面積相加也不過大概1到3平方公里電廠的佔據空間又是另一回事電廠佔地面積總是被佔據空間所搞混人們總是把佔地面積與佔據空間混為一談你們可以看看這些圖片會發現風力發電機之間的間距空間可以有許多用途像是作為農業用地或是牧場、遊憩用地如果建在海上，更沒有這個問題如果你看看核能發電要蓋核能電廠，我們需要什麼?所需的設施會蓋得滿滿，周圍還需要17平方公里的緩衝區你還必須處理鈾礦的開採問題 如果說到面積問題還有很多東西是比核能和風力還糟的舉例來說，要產生能驅動全美汽車的纖維乙醇需要這麼大的種植面積這是種植第二代的纖維乙醇所需面積從牧草提煉的這是種植玉米纖維乙醇所需面積，就稍微小了點這些都是根據詳細資料計算的但倘若你反過頭來看核能要驅動全美的汽車，你需要一個像羅德島的核能電廠（約11.5個台北市）風力發電也是需要不小的土地不過覆蓋面積要小太多了不過你可以把風力發電都移到東岸理論上你可以在建在海平面上，或者你也可以把它們分散開來回頭看看地熱發電它所需面積比風力和核能都小太陽能的所需面積比核能電廠稍大但它也實在夠小了以上是為了驅動全美汽車的各電廠所需面積若想完全利用全球50%的風力你必須使用1%的陸地 風力發電的確可靠，但這種方式是不切實際的我們想要一天24小時都有穩定的電力供給把各種再生能源合併運用也是可以的這是從加州蒐集來的資料（註：縱座標為千瓦特，橫座標為1天24個小時）看看風力(綠色)和太陽能(橘色)的那部份從圖中可以發現只有水力發電能24小時都穩定提供所需電量（白線以下為每小時所需電量）這張是全球的風力資源配置圖全球可被利用的風力比我們所需要的還多上5到10倍最後我們來個總排名這最後一張投影片，透漏了我們應該要的選擇風力或核能你只能2選1若選擇風力則保證冰山不會融化核能，光是那建造的前置時間就能讓北極或是其他的地方的冰山融化更多我們可以擁有更乾淨、更清澈的藍色天空或是，擁有一個不確定的核子年代 (掌聲) 很棒的說明等會，你們開始質詢對方的時候要控制時間因為剛剛有一點超過時間了等會我需要聽眾的意見如果你是支持核能的請舉起雙手若你是反對的，請舉一隻手請給這些聽眾麥克風好的，那台上這2位先生你有1分鐘的時間質詢他剛剛的論點內容不拘 馬克，我對於武器和能源方面跟你相比有著不同觀點剛剛的圖表都沒有顯示核能是如何釋放出溫室氣體的有許多研究這樣陳述：「如果城市繼續使用核能那戰爭就無法避免」我認為這句話有語病實際上，應該要問是哪 21 個國家擁有核能電廠?而這21個國家裡，只有7個持有核子武器這7個國家，在建造核能電廠之前就已經有核子武器了其中的2個國家，北韓跟伊朗雖然擁有核子武器但是沒有核能電廠有一些希望使用潔淨能源的地區像是中國、印度、歐洲、北美這些國家已經在處理核子武器的問題了還有一些國家像伊朗委內瑞拉我們也在密切的監視這些國家使用任何核分裂的相關設備核能發電的推動就表示我們會知道核分裂原料的去向同時就能推動零核武的世界 馬克你有30秒，回應史都華特的質詢 我們都知道印度與巴基斯坦擁有核能電廠而同時他們也在電廠裡秘密研究核子武器另外，我們根本不需要核能發電我們有豐沛的太陽能與風力剛剛我拿出來的圖表顯示，我們可以依賴這二種發電這些都是真實的數據這項研究正不斷進步，也不是什麼高深學問這可以解決全世界的用電問題如果你下定決心要使用乾淨、再生的能源那根本就不需要核能 (掌聲) 接下來是觀眾質詢我叫羅德-貝克斯特羅姆，ICANN的執行長（註：管理域名和IP的非營利組織）自從1994我加入環境保衛基金會的董事會後這基金會是京都議定書的推手之一從那時候開始我就涉入了許多暖化的政策我支持史都華特-布蘭德的論點我關注這個議題至少10年我過去是反對核能發電但是我現在站在史都華特這邊從風險管理的立場來看同意的要點在於讓地球過熱的風險遠遠超過核子意外的風險這是很有可能發生的，而且是個非常實際的問題然而，我認為應該有一個可以讓正反二辯雙贏的方法我們要作決定是設定碳排放上限?或是讓地球滅亡?在美國參議院裡我們需要來自兩個政黨的支持只需要一兩張選票就可以在參議院通過有關暖化的議案在那個小房間就能決定這一切如果政府願意重視暖化問題，那馬克所提的問題也能被解決。謝謝 謝謝你。接下來換反方的聽眾 嗨，我叫大衛-芬頓。我很快地說幾件事情第一，請留意宣傳伎倆來自核能業界的鼓吹運作一直非常強勁反對的聲音卻被壓抑，沒有傳播開來我們應該要勇於表達我們自己的意見不要被業界所蒙蔽了第二，仔細思考如果我們建造核能電廠所有的核廢料都將被數以百計的卡車和火車運送每天從這個國家來來去去然後告訴我們說這一切都會很好，不會發生意外說這些將會毒害環境數萬年的核廢料永遠不會有事說這些負責運送的每一輛卡車跟貨車永遠不會被恐怖份子盯上 謝謝你支持聽眾...另一位支持聽眾呢?開始吧 嗨，我叫艾力克斯，我只是想要講...首先，我得承認我是再生能源的擁護者我家屋頂有安裝太陽光電模板我在水車磨坊上裝了水電轉換裝置我非常喜歡這些再生能源但是，問題出現了太陽能發電只要遇到起風的陰天甚至下雨天就完全沒用老實說根本不夠用如果我想讓燈持續開著我就需要一個好方法讓電的供應能夠穩定不斷我從80年代就開始抗議核子武器的發展而且會一直這麼做但是我們現在有機會去回收這些核子彈頭然後再利用來發電問題還沒解決目前我們沒辦法從再生能源取得足夠的能量我們還需要一個完整的解決方案照目前看來，如果我們想把燈點著核能似乎是目前最好的方案 謝謝你另一位反方? 我贊成馬克的觀點我們的確還沒有足夠的可替代性的再生能源而馬克清楚闡述了我們這些反核人士的立場說我們需要核能說這個時代核能的使用是很重要的這根本是大錯特錯再跟各位分享另一件事雷·庫茲威爾和其餘類似演講都曾提到人類科技未來將呈指數增長你不能指著目前最先進的再生能源技術然後說：這大概就是我們僅有的也許再過5年就會出現令人驚訝的再生能源科技完全取代可怕又糟糕的核能 很好的論點，謝謝你 (掌聲) 現在請你們二位用30秒的時間做一個總結你的最後機會了，史都華特 我喜歡你剛剛播放的那些長條圖不過，天氣是不穩定而且變化很快的英格蘭地區剛剛才度過寒流期他們整個國家的風力發電停機了一個星期不過他們卻沒什麼反應如同慣例，他們會跟法國買核能電力從英法海底隧道輸送20億瓦的電力這種事會一直發生我也曾經擔心那些會遺害萬年的廢料不過實際上，隨科技的發展未來我們能把第四代的核反應爐產生的廢料，回收利用還有那種小型反應爐的發展我聽說內森·麥沃爾德（前微軟技術長）他將在國會採取行動並讓 NRC 盡速發展小型反應爐（NRC：美國核能安全管制最高機關）這將是我們未來迫切需要的我認為這才是有用、具體的行動方案 (掌聲) 我們剛剛分析過每一小時所供給、所需求的電量也看到太陽能、風力在加州的使用情形你可以發現再生能源可以滿足每一小時的需求量甚至滿足一整年的需求量講到資源我們已經描繪出離地表 80 公尺高上空的地球風向圖我們瞭解了這項資源，我們能利用15%的風力來發電全美 15% 的風力資源是很有成本優勢的而且我們還有許多的太陽能這些資源是相當的豐沛，你可以依賴這些資源 好的，謝謝你，馬克(掌聲)如果你身在棕櫚泉市...（註：位於加州的城市）(危險核能)(笑聲)你是站在哪一邊的啊(掌聲) 嗯，現在在場的各位 TED 聽眾我說，現在世界上需要的是核能認同此論點的人，請舉手(歡呼)反對核能的人哇喔...那麼現在...我問聽過這場辯論後改變立場的人請舉手這些改變立場的聽眾你是轉為支持核能的人請繼續舉手好，目前情況兩位都有各自的支持聽眾就我剛剛稍微計算一下支持與反對的聽眾比例從剛剛的75-25變成了65-35你們各有千秋 你們二方都是贏家，恭喜你們也謝謝你們今天的參與 (掌聲)
