Talk	en	zh-tw
deborah_lipstadt_behind_the_lies_of_holocaust_denial	"I come to you today to speak of liars, lawsuits and laughter. The first time I heard about Holocaust denial, I laughed. Holocaust denial? The Holocaust which has the dubious distinction of being the best-documented genocide in the world? Who could believe it didn't happen? Think about it. For deniers to be right, who would have to be wrong? Well, first of all, the victims — the survivors who have told us their harrowing stories. Who else would have to be wrong? The bystanders. The people who lived in the myriads of towns and villages and cities on the Eastern front, who watched their neighbors be rounded up — men, women, children, young, old — and be marched to the outskirts of the town to be shot and left dead in ditches. Or the Poles, who lived in towns and villages around the death camps, who watched day after day as the trains went in filled with people and came out empty. But above all, who would have to be wrong? The perpetrators. The people who say, ""We did it. I did it."" Now, maybe they add a caveat. They say, ""I didn't have a choice; I was forced to do it."" But nonetheless, they say, ""I did it."" Think about it. In not one war crimes trial since the end of World War II has a perpetrator of any nationality ever said, ""It didn't happen."" Again, they may have said, ""I was forced,"" but never that it didn't happen. Having thought that through, I decided denial was not going to be on my agenda; I had bigger things to worry about, to write about, to research, and I moved on. Fast-forward a little over a decade, and two senior scholars — two of the most prominent historians of the Holocaust — approached me and said, ""Deborah, let's have coffee. We have a research idea that we think is perfect for you."" Intrigued and flattered that they came to me with an idea and thought me worthy of it, I asked, ""What is it?"" And they said, ""Holocaust denial."" And for the second time, I laughed. Holocaust denial? The Flat Earth folks? The Elvis-is-alive people? I should study them? And these two guys said, ""Yeah, we're intrigued. What are they about? What's their objective? How do they manage to get people to believe what they say?"" So thinking, if they thought it was worthwhile, I would take a momentary diversion — maybe a year, maybe two, three, maybe even four — in academic terms, that's momentary. (Laughter) We work very slowly. (Laughter) And I would look at them. So I did. I did my research, and I came up with a number of things, two of which I'd like to share with you today. One: deniers are wolves in sheep's clothing. They are the same: Nazis, neo-Nazis — you can decide whether you want to put a ""neo"" there or not. But when I looked at them, I didn't see any SS-like uniforms, swastika-like symbols on the wall, Sieg Heil salutes — none of that. What I found instead were people parading as respectable academics. What did they have? They had an institute. An ""Institute for Historical Review."" They had a journal — a slick journal — a ""Journal of Historical Review."" One filled with papers — footnote-laden papers. And they had a new name. Not neo-Nazis, not anti-Semites — revisionists. They said, ""We are revisionists. We are out to do one thing: to revise mistakes in history."" But all you had to do was go one inch below the surface, and what did you find there? The same adulation of Hitler, praise of the Third Reich, anti-Semitism, racism, prejudice. This is what intrigued me. It was anti-Semitism, racism, prejudice, parading as rational discourse. The other thing I found — many of us have been taught to think there are facts and there are opinions — after studying deniers, I think differently. There are facts, there are opinions, and there are lies. And what deniers want to do is take their lies, dress them up as opinions — maybe edgy opinions, maybe sort of out-of-the-box opinions — but then if they're opinions, they should be part of the conversation. And then they encroach on the facts. I published my work — the book was published, ""Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory,"" it came out in many different countries, including here in Penguin UK, and I was done with those folks and ready to move on. Then came the letter from Penguin UK. And for the third time, I laughed ... mistakenly. I opened the letter, and it informed me that David Irving was bringing a libel suit against me in the United Kingdom for calling him a Holocaust denier. David Irving suing me? Who was David Irving? David Irving was a writer of historical works, most of them about World War II, and virtually all of those works took the position that the Nazis were really not so bad, and the Allies were really not so good. And the Jews, whatever happened to them, they sort of deserved it. He knew the documents, he knew the facts, but he somehow twisted them to get this opinion. He hadn't always been a Holocaust denier, but in the late '80s, he embraced it with great vigor. The reason I laughed also was this was a man who not only was a Holocaust denier, but seemed quite proud of it. Here was a man — and I quote — who said, ""I'm going to sink the battleship Auschwitz."" Here was a man who pointed to the number tattooed on a survivor's arm and said, ""How much money have you made from having that number tattooed on your arm?"" Here was a man who said, ""More people died in Senator Kennedy's car at Chappaquiddick than died in gas chambers at Auschwitz."" That's an American reference, but you can look it up. This was not a man who seemed at all ashamed or reticent about being a Holocaust denier. Now, lots of my academic colleagues counseled me — ""Eh, Deborah, just ignore it."" When I explained you can't just ignore a libel suit, they said, ""Who's going to believe him anyway?"" But here was the problem: British law put the onus, put the burden of proof on me to prove the truth of what I said, in contrast to as it would have been in the United States and in many other countries: on him to prove the falsehood. What did that mean? That meant if I didn't fight, he would win by default. And if he won by default, he could then legitimately say, ""My David Irving version of the Holocaust is a legitimate version. Deborah Lipstadt was found to have libeled me when she called me a Holocaust denier. Ipso facto, I, David Irving, am not a Holocaust denier."" And what is that version? There was no plan to murder the Jews, there were no gas chambers, there were no mass shootings, Hitler had nothing to do with any suffering that went on, and the Jews have made this all up to get money from Germany and to get a state, and they've done it with the aid and abettance of the Allies — they've planted the documents and planted the evidence. I couldn't let that stand and ever face a survivor or a child of survivors. I couldn't let that stand and consider myself a responsible historian. So we fought. And for those of you who haven't seen ""Denial,"" spoiler alert: we won. (Laughter) (Applause) The judge found David Irving to be a liar, a racist, an anti-Semite. His view of history was tendentious, he lied, he distorted — and most importantly, he did it deliberately. We showed a pattern, in over 25 different major instances. Not small things — many of us in this audience write books, are writing books; we always make mistakes, that's why we're glad to have second editions: correct the mistakes. (Laughter) But these always moved in the same direction: blame the Jews, exonerate the Nazis. But how did we win? What we did is follow his footnotes back to his sources. And what did we find? Not in most cases, and not in the preponderance of cases, but in every single instance where he made some reference to the Holocaust, that his supposed evidence was distorted, half-truth, date-changed, sequence-changed, someone put at a meeting who wasn't there. In other words, he didn't have the evidence. His evidence didn't prove it. We didn't prove what happened. We proved that what he said happened — and by extension, all deniers, because he either quotes them or they get their arguments from him — is not true. What they claim — they don't have the evidence to prove it. So why is my story more than just the story of a quirky, long, six-year, difficult lawsuit, an American professor being dragged into a courtroom by a man that the court declared in its judgment was a neo-Nazi polemicist? What message does it have? I think in the context of the question of truth, it has a very significant message. Because today, as we well know, truth and facts are under assault. Social media, for all the gifts it has given us, has also allowed the difference between facts — established facts — and lies to be flattened. Third of all: extremism. You may not see Ku Klux Klan robes, you may not see burning crosses, you may not even hear outright white supremacist language. It may go by names: ""alt-right,"" ""National Front"" — pick your names. But underneath, it's that same extremism that I found in Holocaust denial parading as rational discourse. We live in an age where truth is on the defensive. I'm reminded of a New Yorker cartoon. A quiz show recently appeared in ""The New Yorker"" where the host of the quiz show is saying to one of the contestants, ""Yes, ma'am, you had the right answer. But your opponent yelled more loudly than you did, so he gets the point."" What can we do? First of all, we cannot be beguiled by rational appearances. We've got to look underneath, and we will find there the extremism. Second of all, we must understand that truth is not relative. Number three, we must go on the offensive, not the defensive. When someone makes an outrageous claim, even though they may hold one of the highest offices in the land, if not the world — we must say to them, ""Where's the proof? Where's the evidence?"" We must hold their feet to the fire. We must not treat it as if their lies are the same as the facts. And as I said earlier, truth is not relative. Many of us have grown up in the world of the academy and enlightened liberal thought, where we're taught everything is open to debate. But that's not the case. There are certain things that are true. There are indisputable facts — objective truths. Galileo taught it to us centuries ago. Even after being forced to recant by the Vatican that the Earth moved around the Sun, he came out, and what is he reported to have said? ""And yet, it still moves."" The Earth is not flat. The climate is changing. Elvis is not alive. (Laughter) (Applause) And most importantly, truth and fact are under assault. The job ahead of us, the task ahead of us, the challenge ahead of us is great. The time to fight is short. We must act now. Later will be too late. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我今天要聊說謊的人、聊官司、聊些好笑的事。初次聽到有人否認猶太大屠殺，我就笑了。否認猶太大屠殺？是那個史上最惡名昭彰，被最完整記錄的猶太大屠殺嗎？誰會相信沒有這回事？ 你想想看，如果那些否認者是對的，那誰是錯的？首先，受害者，說出恐怖經歷的倖存者。還會有誰是錯的？旁觀者。東方戰線上，無數城鎮、村莊、城市的居民，看著他們的鄰居被圍捕，不分男女老少，被驅趕到城鎮外圍，中槍後就被丟在壕溝內等死。還有波蘭人，住在集中營附近的城鎮和村莊。日復一日看著裝滿人的火車駛入，然後空空地離開。 除了這些人，還有誰是錯的？加害者。他們承認「是我們做的、是我做的」。也許他們會加上但書，會說「我別無選擇、我是被逼的」。但至少他們承認「我有做」。想想看。二戰結束之後每一場審判，沒有任何國籍的任何戰犯說過「沒有大屠殺」。頂多說「身不由己」，但絕不否認。想了一輪之後，我就決定不去碰這件事。我有其他要費心的工作和研究，所以我就不管了。 約略十多年後，兩位資深的學者，兩位猶太大屠殺的歷史權威，來找我說，「黛博拉，一起喝杯咖啡吧。我們有個研究構想，蠻適合你的。」一方面好奇，一方面覺得榮幸，他們會找上我做研究。我就問「什麼主題？」他們說「否認猶太大屠殺」。第二次聽到，我又笑了。否認猶太大屠殺？是相信「地平說」的人嗎？還是相信貓王還活著的人？要我研究他們？他們就說，「對，我們很好奇。他們是什麼人？目的是什麼？他們為什麼要大費周章地讓大眾相信他們？」 我就想，如果他們覺得有必要，我可以稍微研究「一下」，也許一、兩年，或三、四年，學術研究的「一下」很隨興。 (笑聲) 一切慢慢來。 （笑聲） 我就去做研究。總之就這樣。研究完成後，我得出幾點結論，今天特別要分享其中兩點。 第一：否認者是披著羊皮的狼。骨子裡一樣是納粹、新納粹，加不加「新」沒什麼差。但你去看這些人，他們不穿納粹親衛隊制服，牆上也沒有卍字符號，不行納粹禮，一個都沒有。相反的，他們裝成德高望重的學者。 還有呢？他們有一間學院，叫「歷史評論學院」。還有一本很像樣的期刊，「歷史評論期刊」。裡面都是論文，充滿註腳的論文。而且他們有個新名字。不是新納粹，不是反猶太，是「修正主義者」。他們自稱「修正主義者」。目標只有一個：要修正歷史的謬誤。但如果你掀開他們的表面，會看到什麼？一樣的希特勒崇拜，對第三帝國的讚揚，反猶太、種族主義、充滿偏見。我感興趣的是這個：反猶太、種族主義和偏見歧視，披者理性論述的外衣。 另一個發現是，有些話是事實，有些是意見，但研究過這些人之後，我改觀了。有些話是事實、有些話是意見、還有些是謊言。這些否認者想做的是把謊言，包裝成意見，好像很前衛的意見，有點跳脫框架的意見，一旦這被當成意見，就會被納入討論。然後漸漸蓋過事實。 我把研究出版成一本書，書名是《否認大屠殺》。在很多國家發行，包括英國這邊是企鵝出版。然後我就決定要做我的正事了。這時企鵝出版寄了封信給我。這是第三次我為此大笑......但這次不好笑了。我打開信，信裡說大衛艾文要告我誹謗，在英國這邊告。理由是稱他「大屠殺否認者」。 大衛艾文要告我？他是何許人也？他是一位歷史作家，內容多是關於二戰，但他作品的立場全部都是，納粹其實沒那麼壞、同盟國也沒那麼好。猶太人，無論遭遇什麼事，都是罪有應得。他當然知道歷史紀錄，他也知道事實，但他就是想扭曲真相。他不是一開始就否認大屠殺，但在八零年代晚期，他變成理論的擁護者。 我為此大笑也是因為，他不只是大屠殺否認者，他還以此為榮。引用他的話，他說「我要戳破奧斯威辛的謊言。」這個人，會指著倖存者手臂的編號問，「你刺一個號碼，可以撈多少錢？」他還說，「查帕奎迪克事件死的人，比集中營毒氣室死的人還多。」這是美國梗，意思是毒氣室沒死人。這人絲毫不因為否認大屠殺，感到羞愧或該低調。 學術界很多朋友都跟我說，「不要理他就好了。」我就說誹謗案不能不理啊，他們說「誰會相信他？」但問題就出在這：英國法律上我有舉證責任，要證明我說的是真的。這點跟美國法律不同，或跟其他地方的法律比，應該是他要證明我是錯的。 所以這意味什麼？如果我不跟他打官司，他就會直接勝訴。如果他直接勝訴，他就可以正當地說，「我的猶太大屠殺版本才是對的。黛博拉利普斯塔特對我的誹謗已經敗訴，就如之前我所說的，我不是猶太大屠殺否認者。」他的大屠殺版本是怎樣？納粹沒有想要殺猶太人，集中營沒有毒氣室，沒有大規模槍決。希特勒和這些暴行沒有關係，猶太人捏造這些情節，來撈德國的錢，去建立以色列，一切都是同盟國的陰謀，他們植入記錄又安插證據。 我不能接受這些說法，也無顏面對倖存者，或是倖存者後代。我不能接受這些說法，如果我自認是負責的歷史學者。所以我們迎戰。如果你還沒看《修正》那部電影，我要爆雷：我們贏了。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 法官判決大衛艾文是一個騙徒、種族主義者、反猶太主義者。他的史觀是偏頗的，他說謊、扭曲事實，更重要的是，他是故意的。我們發現他 25 篇著作的模式。這數量不小，在座很多人寫過書或正在寫書，我們會筆誤，所以才要刷二版，去訂正。 （笑聲） 但他都是朝同一種方向改：詆毀猶太人、幫納粹洗白。 但我們是怎麼贏的？我們從他的註解去追史料。結果我們發現什麼？他大部分的著作，還有比較受歡迎的著作，每一篇提到大屠殺的參考資料，史料都被扭曲過，半真半假、修改日期、改變順序、某人出現在根本沒去的會議。換句話說，他根本沒有證據。他的史料不能佐證。我們不需要證明發生過的事。我們只要證明他說的，甚至其他否認者說，因為他會引用，或是否認者也會引用他的話，不是真的。他們的說法，並沒有證據可以支持。 所以為什麼我的故事，不只是一個荒謬、長達六年刁鑽訴訟的故事，也是一個美國教授被一個法院認證過的新納粹詭辯者拖去法院訴訟的故事？這故事有什麼意義？我想在追尋真相的脈絡下，這隱含非常重要的訊息。因為今日，如各位所知，事實和真相面臨挑戰。社群網站的確惠大眾良多，也讓真相，眾所皆知的真相和謊言之間的界線，變得模糊。 第三：極端主義。你不會看見三 K 黨的長袍，不會看見燃燒的十字架，不會聽見右派白人至上主義言論。而是「另類右派」、「國民陣線」，這類的名字。但骨子裡是一樣的極端主義，像否認大屠殺一樣，用合理性偽裝成的言論。 我們居住在一個真相處於挨打的時代。我想到《紐約客》的一則漫畫。最近漫畫裡有一個益智節目，節目主持人對參賽者說，「小姐，雖然你答對了，但對手喊比較大聲，所以他得分。」 所以我們該怎麼辦？首先，不要被理性的外衣騙了。我們要看破表相，揪出隱藏的極端主義。第二，要了解真相是絕對，不是相對的。第三，我們要反守為攻，不能一味挨打。當有人發表荒謬言論，就算他們可能位居高位，也許全球知名，我們也要質問他，「證據在哪裡？」「你拿什麼證明？」不能輕易放過他們。謊言跟真相絕對不能一視同仁。 就像我說的，真相不是相對的。很多人都跟著學術、自由、啟發的思想長大，認為什麼事都可以討論。但這種事例外。有些事就是真理。有些事實不容質疑，是客觀的真相。伽利略幾世紀前就說了。就算教廷逼他認錯，說地球不是繞著太陽轉。他步出宗教法庭，記載說他講了什麼？「可是，地球依然繞著太陽轉。」 地球不是平的。氣候正在變遷。貓王已經死了。 （笑聲） （掌聲） 更重要的是，真相和事實備受挑戰。我們眼前的工作、眼前的任務、眼前的挑戰，太大了。沒時間浪費。我們要馬上行動。再遲就來不及了。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
