Talk	en	zh-tw
deborah_scranton_on_her_war_tapes	"Three years ago, I got a phone call, based on an earlier film I had made, with an offer to embed the New Hampshire National Guard. My idea — and literally, I woke up in the middle of the night, and we've all have those moments. You know, you go to sleep — I was excited, with this phone call. I was thinking, I just finished making another film about World War II vets, and I realized I'd gotten to know their stories, and I realized this was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to tell a warrior's story as it unfolded. So I went to bed that night pretty excited. Not sure of all the details, but excited. It wasn't at four in the morning, but it was closer to midnight. Woke straight up. Wide-awake as could be. And I had this idea: what if I could, in effect, virtually embed, and create a permeable relationship with the soldiers? To tell the story from the inside out, versus the outside in? So, I called back Major Heilshorn, who's the public affairs officer of the New Hampshire National Guard. And he knew me, so I was like, ""Greg?"" He's like, ""Yes, Deborah?"" Told him my idea, and you know, he is one of the bravest men in the world, as is General Blair, who, in the end, gave me permission to try this experiment. Within 10 days, I was down at Fort Dix. He gave me my pick of units. I picked one unit — Charlie Company, Third of the 172nd, they're mountain infantry — for two reasons. One, they're infantry. Number two, they were going to be based at LSA Anaconda, so I knew they would have Internet access. The caveat for my access was I had to get the soldiers to volunteer. This was a big thing that I think when Major H told me, I wasn't really totally gathering what that would mean. So what that meant was, when I went down to Fort Dix, I had to hop out in front of 180 guys and tell them of my vision. You can imagine the hailstorm of questions I got. The opening one was, ""What the fuck do you know about the National Guard?"" I started with the 1607 Massachusetts Bay Colony Pequot Indian Wars. Gave them about a nine minute response, and there we went. So, I'd like to show the clip of the film. It's our trailer, because I know, obviously you guys are busy, many of you may not have had a chance to see it. So, I want to show the trailer, and then I'm going to take apart one scene in detail. If we could roll? (Video) Stephen Pink: This is Sergeant Stephen Pink. Michael Moriarty: Specialist Michael Moriarty. Zack Bazzi: Do I really want to go? Probably not. Soldier: We're not supposed to talk to the media. SP: I'm not the media, dammit! MM: The day is here. Life will change. Voice: The real deal, man! Narrator: You ready? Soldier: Bring it on! Narrator: You ready? Voice 2: Iraq, here we come! ZB: Every soldier eventually wants to go in combat. It's natural instinct. SP: If you let fear get to you, then you're not going to be doing your job. MM: Every single time you go out there, there's attacks. It's unbelievable. ZB: Hey, Nestor, your ass crack is right in my face. Soldiers: IV! Are we on fire? IV! Man down! Man down! MM: Keep going, brother. You wanna play? Michael Moriarty's Wife: It's really hard for him to not have his dad. MM: This little kid is in the middle of a war zone. Stephen Pink's Girlfriend: In the beginning, he's like, ""Write something dirty!"" George W. Bush: The world's newest democracy. MM: They're shooting at me. SP: You don't put 150,000 troops in there, and say we're there to create democracy. Soldier: We've got a drive through window at Burger King now. SP: We're here to create money. MM: I support George Bush. We're not there for the oil. Jon Baril: The worst thing in my life. SP: Baril, don't look at it, bud. Michael Moriarty's Wife: He's not the same person anymore. MM: I will not go back. Kevin Shangraw: The Iraqi people are who we are there to help — and we just killed one. Soldiers: Sergeant Smith is down! Sergeant Smith is down? There they are! Right there! Fire, fire! JB: It'll be a better country in 20 years, 'cause we were there. I hope. (Applause) Deborah Scranton: Thank you. One of the things I'd like to talk to you about is having a conversation about something that is difficult to talk about. And I'd like to relate an experience I had here at TED. I don't know how many of you might imagine it, but there's actually a TEDster who recently got back from Iraq. Paul? Come on, stand up. This is Paul Anthony. He served — (Applause) — with the Marines, and I want to tell you a little, brief story. We were one of the lucky ones to get in the class with the Sony cameras and the Vista software. Right? And we started talking. People will see my tag, and they'll see ""The War Tapes,"" and then we'll start talking about war. We got in a conversation with some other people in the class, and it went on and on. I mean, we were there for an hour, talking. And it really highlighted something that I would like to ask you guys to think about and hopefully to help with, which is, I think a lot of us are very afraid to have conversations about war, and about politics. And really — because maybe we're going to disagree. Maybe it's going to get uncomfortable. How do we open it up to really be able to have a conversation? And you know, Paul was talking, and he then turned to Constance and said, ""You know, I wouldn't have this conversation if she weren't here, because I know she has my back."" And I want to say, I was nervous. Because I'm used to doing Q&As. I really related to what James was saying yesterday, because I'm behind the camera. You know, I can answer questions about my movie, but for me to come up and talk for 18 minutes is a really long time. So, I wanted to say, Paul, I'm happy you're here, because I know you have my back. This film was not about the Internet, but it could not have been made without it. The guys' tapes on average took two weeks to get from Iraq to me. In the meantime, the soldiers — we would email and IM. I didn't save all of them, because I didn't realize at the beginning that it would be something that I would want to keep track of. But there were 3,211 emails and IMs and text messages that I was able to save. The reason I quantify that is because we really embarked on this as a mutual journey to really get inside of it. So I wanted to show you a clip, and then I was going tell you a little bit of how it got put together. If we could roll the clip. (Video) SP: Today is sport. [Unclear] Radio: [Unclear] Christian soldiers. SP: We like to give these insurgents a fair chance. So, what we do, we ride with the windows down. Because, you know, we obviously have the advantage. I'm just kidding. We don't fucking ride with the goddam windows down. It's not true. Very unsafe. Whoa. Soldier: Right there. SP: All right, let's get over to that site. Be advised, we're leaving Taji right now. We believe that the blast was right outside the gate of Taji, we're heading to that location now. Soldier: That's a fucking car bomb! Soldier: Motherfuckers! Soldiers: Get your vest on! Hey, get over the fucking — yeah, yeah. Any one-four elements get to the gate! SP: Sheriff one-six, or any one-four elements, we need you at the gate of Taji right now, over. Soldier: I'll walk you through it. (Voices) SP: Stay low. Head over to the right. Get your bag, get your bag! (Screams) SP: It was mass casualties. Probably 20 dead, at least 20 or 30 wounded Iraqis. SP: It just looked like, you know, someone had thrown a quarter through a guy, and it was just like — there was no blood coming from the shrapnel wounds. Everything was cauterized, and it was just like there was a void going through the body. This is the scene north. They just removed a burnt body, or half a body from here. I don't think there was anything left from his abdominal down. This is blood. And you know, you walk, and you hear the pieces of skin. And that's it, that's all that's left. I remember giving three IVs, bandaging several wounded. Soldiers sitting in the corner of a sandbag wall, shaking and screaming. Medics who were terrified and couldn't perform. I later heard that Iraqi casualties were not to be treated in Taji. They can work on the post for pennies, but can't die there. They've got to die outside. If one of those incompetent medical officers told me to stop treatment, I would've slit his throat right there. 21:00 hours, and it's just our squad going through today's events in our heads, whether we want to or not. News Anchor: More violence in Iraq. Twin suicide car bombings killed eight Iraqis and wounded dozens more near a coalition base north of Baghdad. SP: We made the news. I feel exploited and proud at the same time. I've lost all faith in the media — a hapless joke I would much rather laugh at than become a part of. I should really thank God for saving my lucky ass. I'll do that, then I'm gonna jerk off. Because these pages smell like Linds, and there won't be any time for jerking off tomorrow. Another mission at 06:00. DS: Now — (Applause) — thanks. When I said earlier, to try and tell a story from the inside out, versus the outside in — part of what Chris said so eloquently in his introduction — is this melding. It's a new way of trying to make a documentary. When I met the guys, and 10 of them agreed to take cameras — in total, 21 ended up filming. Five soldiers filmed the entire time. There are three featured in the film. The way I learned about Taji was Steve Pink sent me an email, and in it, attached a photo of that burned body out at the car. And the tone from the email was, you know, it had been a very bad day, obviously. And I saw in my IM window that Mike Moriarty was at the base. So, I pinged Mike and I said, ""Mike, can you please go get that interview with Pink?"" Because the thing that very often is missing is, in the military what they call ""hot wash."" It's that immediate interview after something immediately happens, you know. And if you let time go by, it kind of softens and smooths the edges. And for me, I really wanted that. So, in order to get the intimacy, to share that experience with you, the guys — the two most popular mounts — there was a camera on the turret, the gun turret, and then on the dashboard of the Humvee. Most of the Humvees, we ended up mounting two cameras in them. So you get to experience that in real time, right? The interview that you see is the one that Mike went and did within 24 hours of that episode happening. Steve Pink reading his journal happened five months after he came home. I knew about that journal, but it was very, very private. And you know, you earn someone's trust, especially in doc filmmaking, through your relationship. So, it wasn't until five months after he was home that he would read that journal. Now, the news footage I put in there to try to show — you know, I think mainstream media tries to do the best they can in the format that they have. But the thing that I know you all have heard a lot of times, American soldiers saying, ""Why don't they talk about the good stuff that we do?"" OK, this is a perfect example. Pink's squad and another squad spent their entire day outside the wire. They didn't have to go outside the wire. There were not Americans hurt out there. They spent their entire day outside the wire trying to save Iraqi lives — the Iraqis who work on the post. So, when you may hear soldiers complaining, that's what they're talking about, you know? And I think it's such an amazing gift that they would share this as a way of bridging. And when I talk about that polarity I get at so many different Q&As, and people are really opinionated. But it seems like people don't want to hear so much, or listen, or try to have an exchange. And I'm as fiery as the next person, but I really think — you know, different speakers have talked about their concern for the world, and my concern is that we have to have these conversations. And we have to be able to go into scary places where we may, you know, we think we know. But we just have to leave that little bit of openness, to know. There's such a disconnect. And for me, it's trying to bridge that disconnect. I'll share one story. I get — I'm often asked, you know, for me, what have been some of the special moments from having worked on this film. And at screenings, inevitably — you know, as I'm sure all of you obviously do speaking stuff — usually you have people who hang around and want to ask you more questions. And usually, the first questions are, ""Oh, what kind of cameras did you use?"" Or you know, these things. But there's always a few guys, almost always, who are the last ones. And I've learned over time that those are always the soldiers. And they wait until pretty much everybody's gone. And for me, one of the most profound stories someone shared with me, that then became my story, was — for those of you who haven't seen the film, and it's not a spoiler — it's very common there are a lot of civilian accidents, where people get in front of Humvees and they get killed. In this film, there is a scene where an Iraqi woman is killed. A soldier came up to me and stood, you know really, pretty close, a foot away from me. He's a big guy. And he looked at me, and I smiled, and then I saw the tears start welling up in his eyes. And he wasn't going to blink. And he said, ""My gunner was throwing candy."" And I knew what he was going to say. The gunner was throwing candy. They used to throw candy to the kids. Kids got too close, very often. And he said, ""I killed a child. And I'm a father. I have children. I haven't been able to tell my wife. I'm afraid she's going to think I'm a monster."" I hugged him, of course, and I said, you know, ""It's going to be OK."" And he said, ""I'm going to bring her to see your film. And then I'm going to tell her."" So when I talk about a disconnect, it's not only for maybe those people who don't know a soldier, which there obviously are. You know, these days, it's not like World War II, where there was a war front and a home front, and everybody seemed involved. You can go for days here and not feel like there's a war going on. And often, I'll hear people say, who maybe know that I did this film, and they say, ""Oh, you know, I'm against the war, but I support the soldiers."" And I've started to ask them, ""Well, that's nice. What are you doing? Are you volunteering at a VA? You go and see anybody? Do you, if you find out your neighbor's been, do you spend some time? Not necessarily ask questions, but see if they want to talk? Do you give money to any of the charities?"" You know, obviously, like Dean Kamen's working on that amazing thing, but there's charities where you can sponsor computers for wounded soldiers. I think, I challenge us to say — to operationalize those terms, when we say we support someone, you know? Are you a friend to them? Do you really care? And I would just say it's my hope, and I would ask you guys to please, you know, reach out a hand. And really do give them a hug. Thank you."	三年前,我接到一通電話,那是因為我之前拍攝的一部電影那通電話提供我一個機會去挖掘新罕布什爾國民警衛軍的故事.我的想法—我在半夜清醒,我們都曾經有這種經歷.因為這通電話,我當時很興奮.我在想,我才剛拍完一部關於二戰老兵的電影.然後我明白,我必須挖掘他們的故事我知道這是千載難逢的機會去揭露一位勇者的故事於是那晚我帶著興奮的情緒的入眠雖然不確定所有的細節,但我仍十分興奮.當時還不到凌晨4點—應該更接近半夜12點但是我馬上起床,毫無睡意.當時我有一個想法:假若我可以實際上去講(這個故事)呢?和士兵們建立一種相互信賴的關係.如此便可以從當事人的角度說故事,而不是旁觀者的角度. 於是我打電話給Heilshorn少校,他是新罕布什爾國民警衛軍的公共事務主管.因為他認識我,所以我很直接地在電話中說,”Greg?”他回答,“怎麼了?Deborash.”我告訴他我的想法,而且你們知道他是世界上最勇敢的人之一他就像Blair將軍一樣,最後他允許我去試著實現我的想法. 我在十天之內就抵達迪克斯堡,我挑了一個小隊(做為拍攝小組).我選擇Charlie帶領的連隊,它是172個營隊中的第三營他們是野戰部隊－挑選這支連隊的原因有兩個第一,他們是步兵.第二,因為他們的據點在LSA 的阿那康達,所以我知道那裡可以上網.拍攝的困難在於,我必須讓這些士兵是出自於自願的.這是一件很重要的事,我想,當Heilshorn少校向我警告時,我並沒有充分地意識到這件事有多麼困難. 所以這代表,當我抵達迪克斯堡時,我必須在180個男人面前跳下車並向他們闡述我的理念.你們可以想像我遇到的問題如冰雹般席捲而來.劈頭就罵,”你對國民警衛軍了解多少?”我從1607年的馬薩諸塞州海灣殖民地的佩闊德印戰爭講起,我花了大約9分鐘的時間回應他們,然後才順利完成. 我想先播放電影的片段,這是我們的預告片,因為我知道你們一定都很忙—導致許多人可能沒有機會看這部電影.所以我想播放預告片,然後我將會挑出一個部份做詳細說明.讓我們開始吧. Pink：我是Stephen Pink中士. Moriarty：我是Michael Moriarty專員. Bazzi：我真的想去嗎?也許不是. 士兵：我们不應該和媒體說話. P:可惡,我不是媒體! M:到了這裡,生活將就此改變. 士兵:兄弟,這可不是鬧著玩的.準備好了?放馬過來吧!準備好了嗎?伊拉克,我們來了. B:每個士兵最後都想去打仗.因為這是他們與生俱來的本能. P:如果你讓恐懼纏繞著你,那你就無法做好你的工作. M:每次出去,都會遇到襲擊.太不可思議了. B:嘿,Nestor.你的屁股正對著我呢. 士兵:IV,我們被擊中了嗎?有人被擊中了.有人被擊中了. M:兄弟,繼續前進,你還想完成任務嗎? Moriarty的太太:對孩子來說沒有父親(的陪伴),真的很痛苦. M:這些小孩子已經被捲入戰爭的禍端中 Pink的女朋友:剛開始,他像是在表達,”寫點粗俗的東西!”. George W. Bush(布希總統):世界最新的民主 M:他們向我開槍. P:你不用派遣15萬的軍隊到那裡,並且聲稱我們是去建立民主. 士兵:現在,我們正開車經過漢堡王,透過窗戶可以看到它. P:我們過來是為了錢. M:我們支持布希,我們不是為了石油才來. Jon Baril:這是我這輩子遇過最糟的事情. P:Baril,別看了. M的妻子:他完全變了一個人 M:我不會回去(伊拉克). Kevin Shangraw：伊拉克人民是我們在那裡要幫助的對象—可是我們剛剛卻殺了一個 士兵:Smith中士被擊中了! Smith中士被擊中了?他們在那裡!就在那裡!開火! Baril:希望20年後,因為我們曾在這裡,它將變成一個更好的國家希望如此. Deborah Scranton:謝謝大家..我有一件事情想告訴大家就是對一件很難啟齒的事情進行討論我想將那件事跟我在TED的經歷連結在一起.我不知道你們有多少人想過這件事,不過在場有一位聽眾,最近從伊拉克回來.Paul?快點,站起來.這位是Paul Anthony.他在—(掌聲)—海軍服役,我想跟大家說一個小故事.我們是幸運兒之一能夠擁有Sony相機和Vista的軟體對吧?然後我們準備開始討論.大家看到我的標籤時,他們將會看到”戰爭實錄”接著我們開始討論戰爭. 我們和課堂的一些其他人進行對話,就這樣持續進行著.我的意思是,我們在那邊談了一個小時.跟他們的對話突顯出一些事是我想要讓大家思考而且希望有助於你們.也就是,我想許多人很忌諱談論關於戰爭的問題,和政治議題.其實—也許是因為我們不贊同這些事.又或許討論這些事會使我們感到不舒服.我們怎樣才能暢所欲言,真的可以進行一次對話?你們知道嗎?Paul當時正在講話,然後他轉向Constance說,”你知道嗎,如果沒有她,我就不會站在這裡說話,因為我知道她會支持我.” 我想說,我當時真的很緊張.因為我習慣一問一答.我真的和James昨天說的很像,因為我都站在攝影機後面.我可以回答關於電影的問題,但是,如果讓我上來滔滔不絕的講18分鐘,那真的很難熬.所以我想說,”Paul,我很高興你在場,因為我知道你支持我.” 這部電影的內容跟網路無關,但是如果沒有網路就不會有這部電影.拍攝的影像平均要兩個星期才能從伊拉克傳到我這裡.同時,士兵們—可以寄電子郵件給我而且也可以和我即時通訊.我並沒有全部保存(信跟對話記錄),因為一開始我並沒有想到我會希望將這些資料珍藏起來.不過仍有3211封電子郵件,聊天記錄,以及簡訊被我保存下來了.我之所以量化它是因為我們將這件事情看做是一個雙向互動的過程,為了全然站在當事人的角度.所以我想播放一個片段,然後向大家簡單的介紹它是如何剪輯而成的.我們開始吧. Pink:今天要大幹一場.我們要給這群叛亂者一個公平的機會.所以我們要搖下車窗前進.你也知道,因為我們明顯佔有優勢.我只不過是開開玩笑罷我們才不會搖下車窗前進.剛剛說的那些都是假的。那樣是非常危險的.哇. 士兵:在那裡. P:好吧,我們趕過去那邊.注意,我們現在就離開塔吉.我們認為爆炸就在塔吉的出入口處發生,我們現在正前往那個地方 士兵:那是一個汽車炸彈! 士兵:一群渾蛋! 士兵:把你的防彈衣穿上!嘿 去那邊 嗯哼.隨便一組4人小隊去出入口那邊! P:警長,或任何一個4人小隊,我們需要你們請立即前往塔吉的出入口,完畢. Man:我帶你走過去.(聲音) P:蹲低點.然後往右邊移動.拿起你的背包.,拿起你的CLS包!(尖叫聲) P:這裡有大量死傷.大約20個人死亡,至少有20到30個伊拉克人受傷. P:如你們所見—一個人,用硬幣穿過另一個傢伙就好像 — 手榴彈彈片造成的傷口,卻沒有流血.所有東西都被燒灼了.就像一個洞穿過—穿過身體.這是北邊的情況.他們剛剛從這裡搬走一具燒焦的屍體,或許只有一半.我猜測腹部以下應該都不見了.這是血.當你在走路時,可以聽到皮膚的碎片的聲音而且—就這樣,就剩下這些了我記錄了三段,包紮了幾個傷口.士兵坐在沙包圍牆的角落裡擠成一團,邊顫抖邊尖叫.醫護人員都受到驚嚇沒辦法進行醫療.後來我聽說這些伊拉克的傷亡人員不會在塔吉接受治療.他們可以做點零工賺點錢 但是不能死在那裡.他們必須死在外面.如果那些沒用的醫護官中有一個說不繼續治療，我一定會一刀劃破他們的喉嚨.晚上9點 只有我們小隊今天發生的事都會在我們的腦海中不斷出現不管我們願不願意. 主播:伊拉克發生越來越多暴力事件.兩個自殺汽車炸彈導致8名伊拉克人死亡,多人受傷在靠近巴格達北部的一個聯軍基地 ... P:我們上新聞了.感覺我被利用,同時也感到自豪.我對媒體完全失去信心—一個不幸的玩笑，我寧願聽到那個玩笑而笑，而不是親身經歷。我真應該感謝上帝讓我撿了一條命回來.我會感謝上帝,然後自慰.因為這些紙有Lindz的味道,而且明天沒有時間自慰.早上6點有另一個任務. Deborah Scranton：現在—(掌聲).謝謝.我之前說過,我想試著從當事人的角度來述說這個故事， 而不是從旁觀者的角度—Chris在他生動的介紹裡也說過這種融合.它是製作紀錄片的一種新的嘗試 .當初我見到這些士兵時,其中有10個人同意讓我錄影.到最後,一共有21個人同意參與拍攝行列.有5個士兵是全程拍攝的.有3個人在電影中的是代表性人物. 我是從Steve Pink寄給我的電子郵件中得知塔吉這件慘案的,在附件中夾帶了一張在汽車旁邊的燒焦屍體照片.電子郵件中透露出的情緒,顯然是個糟糕的一天.然後我在我的即時通訊軟體的視窗上發現Mike Moriarty在基地.所以我點擊Mike(的名子或頭像)跟他說,”Mike 能不能麻煩你採訪一下Pink?”因為我們經常缺少的部分,用軍隊術語來說就是”hot wash”(戰後檢討).就是事件發生以後的即時採訪.如果讓時間就這樣溜走的話,時間會軟化和修飾那些尖銳的事情.對我來說,我非常想要(即時採訪). 所以,為了能深入了解,為了和你們分享經驗,這些士兵—最受歡迎的2個武器裝備—有一台攝影機架在砲塔上— 一座砲塔,還有一台裝在(軍用)悍馬車的儀表板上.我們在大多數的悍馬車上配備了2台攝影機.所以你們可以在第一時間內了解事情發生的過程,沒錯吧?你們剛剛看到的那個採訪是Mike在事件發生24小時之內即時錄製的. Steve Pink在他回家5個月後閱讀他的日記.我知道日記的內容,但是那是極度隱私的東西.你們都知道,贏得某人的信任,尤其在拍攝記錄片的過程中,透過關係.所以直到他回家5個月後,他才閱讀那些日記. 現在,我在電影中放進新聞片段是為了—我認為主流媒體已經竭盡所能做到最好了在他們所具有的表現形式範圍內.但是,我知道大家不斷聽到,美國士兵們說,”為什麼他們不報導我們做得好事?”的確, 這是一個很好的例子.Pink的小隊和另外一個分隊整天都在鐵絲網(基地)外面.他們根本沒必要出去.因為外面沒有美國人傷亡.他們在外面一整天是為了救伊拉克人—那些在工作岡位上的伊拉克人.所以當你聽到士兵們的抱怨,不是沒有原因的,對吧?而且我認為他們能夠分享這些(故事)就是最好得禮物,做為一種溝通的手段. 在許多問答的場合裡，我感受到了對立,人們真的是頑固的但是大家似乎都不願意去了解更多,或者傾聽,或是試著彼此溝通.我和其他人一樣心懷不滿,但是我認為—不同的人談到他們對這個世界的擔憂,而我關心的是,我們必須進行這樣的對話.我們必須深入了解一些危險地帶,那些我們自以為很了解的地方.但是,其實我們只需要放寬心胸去了解.有這樣的隔閡.對我來說,我想試圖消除這個隔閡.我在分享一個故事.我經常被問到,在製作這部影片的過程中最特別的幾個地方.上映之後,必然—我確定各位都曾做過演講—你會遇到許多圍住你的人，他們想要問你問題.通常第一個問題會是,”哦,你使用哪種攝影機?”或是之類的問題. 但總有少數幾個人,幾乎每次都是最後才發問.我逐漸發現,這些人幾乎都是士兵.他們一直等到差不多所有人都離開才問.對我來說,別人跟我分享過最為深刻的故事是,後來成為我的故事,那就是—對於沒看過「戰爭實錄」電影的人,這不會有礙於理解這個故事—許多的老百姓發生事故,是很常見的事人們擋住漢馬車然後被殺死,在電影裡,有一幕就是一個伊拉克婦女被殺害.一個士兵走到我眼前,站著,你可以想像,這是非常的近—距離只有一英呎.他是一個大塊頭.他看著我,然後我用微笑回應他,之後我看到他眼中有淚水在打轉.他沒有眨眼.接著他說,”我的砲手當時在扔糖果.”我知道他接下來要說什麼.砲手當時在扔糖果.他們習慣向孩子扔糖果.孩子們離的太近了,很多時候都是這樣.然後他說,”我打死了一個孩子.我是一個父親,我也有小孩.我無法告訴妻子這件事.我擔心她會認為我是個惡魔.”我給他一個擁抱.然後跟他說,”沒事的.”他說,”我會帶她去看你的記錄片,然後向她坦白這件事.” 因此我所說的隔閡,並不僅僅是針對那些不了解士兵的人.總是會有這樣的人—你們都知道的,像現在這樣.這並不像第二次世界大戰那樣,有前線跟後方的分野,每個人似乎都參與其中.你可以照常生活,而且感覺不到這個世界其實有戰爭正進行著.我經常聽到有人說,或許他們知道我拍了這部電影,他們說,”哦,你知道的,我反對戰爭,但是我支持那些士兵們.”然後我開始問他們,”哦,聽起來不錯—那你都做了什麼?你參加美國志願軍了嗎?你去探望那些人了嗎?你是否—如果你發現自己的鄰居就是士兵,你會花時間和他們在一塊嗎?不一定要問問題,而是看看他們是否想傾訴?你捐助過任何的慈善組織嗎?”顯然,類似Dean Kamen從事的這種非凡工作 —但是你可以向很多慈善機構捐助電腦,幫助受傷的士兵. 我想邀請大家—去實現我們的話語，當我們說我們支持某些人你把他們當做朋友嗎?你真的在乎(他們)嗎?我有一個希望,我請求大家,請伸出你的手.真誠的給予他們擁抱.謝謝
