Talk	en	zh-tw
dee_boersma_pay_attention_to_penguins	"I want to talk about penguins today. But first, I want to start by saying that we need a new operating system, for the oceans and for the Earth. When I came to the Galapagos 40 years ago, there were 3,000 people that lived in the Galapagos. Now there are over 30,000. There were two Jeeps on Santa Cruz. Now, there are around a thousand trucks and buses and cars there. So the fundamental problems that we face are overconsumption and too many people. It's the same problems in the Galapagos, except, obviously, it's worse here, in some ways, than other places. Because we've only doubled the population of the Earth since the 1960s — a little more than doubled — but we have 6.7 billion people in the world, and we all like to consume. And one of the major problems that we have is our operating system is not giving us the proper feedback. We're not paying the true environmental costs of our actions. And when I came at age 22 to live on Fernandina, let me just say, that I had never camped before. I had never lived alone for any period of time, and I'd never slept with sea lions snoring next to me all night. But moreover, I'd never lived on an uninhabited island. Punta Espinosa is where I lived for over a year, and we call it uninhabited because there are no people there. But it's alive with life; it's hardly uninhabited. So a lot has happened in the last 40 years, and what I learned when I came to the Galapagos is the importance of wild places, wild things, certainly wildlife, and the amazing qualities that penguins have. Penguins are real athletes: They can swim 173 kilometers in a day. They can swim at the same speed day and night — that's faster than any Olympic swimmer. I mean, they can do like seven kilometers an hour and sustain it. But what is really amazing, because of this deepness here, Emperor penguins can go down more than 500 meters and they can hold their breath for 23 minutes. Magellanic penguins, the ones that I work on, they can dive to about 90 meters and they can stay down for about 4.6 minutes. Humans, without fins: 90 meters, 3.5 minutes. And I doubt anybody in this room could really hold their breath for 3.5 minutes. You have to train to be able to do that. So penguins are amazing athletes. The other thing is, I've never met anybody that really doesn't say that they like penguins. They're comical, they walk upright, and, of course, they're diligent. And, more importantly, they're well-dressed. So they have all the criteria that people normally like. But scientifically, they're amazing because they're sentinels. They tell us about our world in a lot of different ways, and particularly the ocean. This is a picture of a Galapagos penguin that's on the front of a little zodiac here in the Galapagos. And that's what I came to study. I thought I was going to study the social behavior of Galapagos penguins, but you already know penguins are rare. These are the rarest penguins in the world. Why I thought I was going to be able to do that, I don't know. But the population has changed dramatically since I was first here. When I counted penguins for the first time and tried to do a census, we just counted all the individual beaks that we could around all these islands. We counted around 2,000, so I don't know how many penguins there really are, but I know I can count 2,000. If you go and do it now, the national parks count about 500. So we have a quarter of the penguins that we did 40 years ago. And this is true of most of our living systems. We have less than we had before, and most of them are in fairly steep decline. And I want to just show you a little bit about why. (Braying) That's a penguin braying to tell you that it's important to pay attention to penguins. Most important of all, I didn't know what that was the first time I heard it. And you can imagine sleeping on Fernandina your first night there and you hear this lonesome, plaintful call. I fell in love with penguins, and it certainly has changed the rest of my life. What I found out I was studying is really the difference in how the Galapagos changes, the most extreme variation. You've heard about these El Ninos, but this is the extreme that penguins all over the world have to adapt to. This is a cold-water event called La Nina. Where it's blue and it's green, it means the water is really cold. And so you can see this current coming up — in this case, the Humboldt Current — that comes all the way out to the Galapagos Islands, and this deep undersea current, the Cromwell Current, that upwells around the Galapagos. That brings all the nutrients: When this is cold in the Galapagos, it's rich, and there's plenty of food for everyone. When we have extreme El Nino events, you see all this red, and you see no green out here around the Galapagos. That means that there's no upwelling, and there's basically no food. So it's a real desert for not only for the penguins and the sea lions and the marine iguanas ... things die when there's no food. But we didn't even know that that affected the Galapagos when I went to study penguins. And you can imagine being on an island hoping you're going to see penguins, and you're in the middle of an El Nino event and there are no penguins. They're not breeding; they're not even around. I studied marine iguanas at that point. But this is a global phenomenon, we know that. And if you look along the coast of Argentina, where I work now, at a place called Punta Tombo — the largest Magellanic penguin colony in the world down here about 44 degrees south latitude — you see that there's great variation here. Some years, the cold water goes all the way up to Brazil, and other years, in these La Nina years, it doesn't. So the oceans don't always act together; they act differently, but that is the kind of variation that penguins have to live with, and it's not easy. So when I went to study the Magellanic penguins, I didn't have any problems. There were plenty of them. This is a picture at Punta Tombo in February showing all the penguins along the beach. I went there because the Japanese wanted to start harvesting them and turning them into high fashion golf gloves, protein and oil. Fortunately, nobody has harvested any penguins and we're getting over 100,000 tourists a year to see them. But the population is declining and it's declined fairly substantially, about 21 percent since 1987, when I started these surveys, in terms of number of active nests. Here, you can see where Punta Tombo is, and they breed in incredibly dense colonies. We know this because of long-term science, because we have long-term studies there. And science is important in informing decision makers, and also in changing how we do and knowing the direction of change that we're going in. And so we have this penguin project. The Wildlife Conservation Society has funded me along with a lot of individuals over the last 27 years to be able to produce these kinds of maps. And also, we know that it's not only Galapagos penguins that are in trouble, but Magellanics and many other species of penguins. And so we have started a global penguin society to try to focus on the real plight of penguins. This is one of the plights of penguins: oil pollution. Penguins don't like oil and they don't like to swim through oil. The nice thing is, if you look down here in Argentina, there's no surface oil pollution from this composite map. But, in fact, when we went to Argentina, penguins were often found totally covered in oil. So they were just minding their own business. They ended up swimming through ballast water that had oil in it. Because when tankers carry oil they have to have ballast at some point, so when they're empty, they have the ballast water in there. When they come back, they actually dump this oily ballast water into the ocean. Why do they do that? Because it's cheaper, because they don't pay the real environmental costs. We usually don't, and we want to start getting the accounting system right so we can pay the real cost. At first, the Argentine government said, ""No, there's no way. You can't find oiled penguins in Argentina. We have laws, and we can't have illegal dumping; it's against the law."" So we ended up spending nine years convincing the government that there were lots of oiled penguins. In some years, like this year, we found more than 80 percent of the adult penguins dead on the beach were covered in oil. These little blue dots are the fledglings — we do this survey every March — which means that they're only in the environment from January until March, so maybe three months at the most that they could get covered in oil. And you can see, in some years over 60 percent of the fledglings were oiled. Eventually, the government listened and, amazingly, they changed their laws. They moved the tanker lanes 40 kilometers farther off shore, and people are not doing as much illegal dumping. So what we're seeing now is very few penguins are oiled. Why are there even these penguins oiled? Because we've solved the problem in Chubut province, which is like a state in Argentina where Punta Tombo is — so that's about 1,000 kilometers of coastline — but we haven't solved the problem in northern Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil. So now I want to show you that penguins are affected. I'm just going to talk about two things. This is climate change. Now this has really been a fun study because I put satellite tags on the back of these Magellanic penguins. Try to convince donors to give you a couple thousand dollars to glue a satellite tag on the back of penguins. But we've been doing this now for more than a decade to learn where they go. We thought we needed a marine protected area of about 30 kilometers, and then we put a satellite tag on the back of a penguin. And what the penguins show us — and these are all the little dots from where the penguins' positions were for penguins in incubation in 2003 — and what you see is some of these individuals are going 800 kilometers away from their nests. So that means as their mate is sitting on the nest incubating the eggs, the other one is out there foraging, and the longer they have to stay gone, the worse condition the mate is in when the mate comes back. And, of course, all of this then leads to a vicious cycle and you can't raise a lot of chicks. Here you see in 2003 — these are all the dots of where the penguins are — they were raising a little over a half of a chick. Here, you can see in 2006, they raised almost three quarters of a chick per nest, and you can see that they're closer to Punta Tombo; they're not going as far away. This past year, in 2009, you can see that they're now raising about a fourth of a chick, and some of these individuals are going more than 900 kilometers away from their nests. So it's kind of like you having a job in Chicago, and then you get transferred to St. Louis, and your mate is not happy about this because you've got to pay airfare, because you're gone longer. The same thing's true for penguins as well. And they're going about, on average now, 40 kilometers farther than they did a decade ago. We need to be able to get information out to the general public. And so we started a publication with the Society for Conservation that we think presents cutting-edge science in a new, novel way, because we have reporters that are good writers that actually can distill the information and make it accessible to the general public. So if you're interested in cutting-edge science and smarter conservation, you should join with our 11 partners — some of them here in this room, like the Nature Conservancy — and look at this magazine because we need to get information out about conservation to the general public. Lastly I want to say that all of you, probably, have had some relationship at some time in your life with a dog, a cat, some sort of pet, and you recognized that those are individuals. And some of you consider them almost part of your family. If you had a relationship with a penguin, you'd see it in the same sort of way. They're amazing creatures that really change how you view the world because they're not that different from us: They're trying to make a living, they're trying to raise their offspring, they're trying to get on and survive in the world. This is Turbo the Penguin. Turbo's never been fed. He met us and got his name because he started standing under my diesel truck: a turbo truck, so we named him Turbo. Turbo has taken to knocking on the door with his beak, we let him in and he comes in here. And I just wanted to show you what happened one day when Turbo brought in a friend. So this is Turbo. He's coming up to one of my graduate students and flipper patting, which he would do to a female penguin. And you can see, he's not trying to bite. This guy has never been in before and he's trying to figure out, ""What is going on? What is this guy doing? This is really pretty weird."" And you'll see soon that my graduate student ... and you see, Turbo's pretty intent on his flipper patting. And now he's looking at the other guy, saying, ""You are really weird."" And now look at this: not friendly. So penguins really differ in their personalities just like our dogs and our cats. We're also trying to collect our information and become more technologically literate. So we're trying to put that in computers in the field. And penguins are always involved in helping us or not helping us in one way or another. This is a radio frequency ID system. You put a little piece of rice in the foot of a penguin that has a barcode, so it tells you who it is. It walks over the pad, and you know who it is. Okay, so here are a few penguins coming in. See, this one's coming back to its nest. They're all coming in at this time, walking across there, just kind of leisurely coming in. Here's a female that's in a hurry. She's got food. She's really rushing back, because it's hot, to try to feed her chicks. And then there's another fellow that will leisurely come by. Look how fat he is. He's walking back to feed his chicks. Then I realize that they're playing king of the box. This is my box up here, and this is the system that works. You can see this penguin, he goes over, he looks at those wires, does not like that wire. He unplugs the wire; we have no data. (Laughter) So, they really are pretty amazing creatures. OK. Most important thing is: Only you can change yourself, and only you can change the world and make it better, for people as well as penguins. So, thank you very much. (Applause)"	我今天想來談談企鵝，但首先，我想說，為了海洋和地球，我們需要一個新的操作系統。當我在40年前來到加拉帕戈斯群島時，約有3000人住在加拉帕戈斯，現在的人口則超過3萬。當時，聖克魯茲只有兩台吉普車，現在，當地約有1000輛卡車、公車，和汽車。我們現在所面臨的基本問題是過度消費和人口過剩，加拉帕戈斯也面臨同樣的問題，只是，很顯然的，在某些層面上，加拉帕戈斯的情況較其他地區嚴重。原因就是地球的人口多了一倍，自1960年代起，人口成長了比一倍還多。然而，世界約有67億人口，而我們都喜愛消費。我們的主要問題是我們的操作系統無法給予我們正常的回饋。我們沒有為我們的行為付出相同的環境代價。 22歲時，我來到費爾南迪納居住，且讓我坦言，我不曾露營過，我也不曾一個人住過，我更不曾整夜睡在打鼾的海獅身旁。此外，我從來沒有住在無人島上過。我在蓬埃斯皮諾薩住了一年多，我們稱它無人居住，因為當地確實杳無人煙。然而，其他生命卻讓當地別有洞天。因此，說它沒有生機不太恰當。在過去40年中，（島上）發生了很多事。 而我在加拉帕戈斯學到的即是野生地區、野生事物，當然還有野生動物的重要性，以及企鵝所獨具的奇妙特質。企鵝是名副其實的運動員，牠們一天可以游泳173公里，且日夜都能以這種速度游泳，這比任何奧運游泳選手的速度都還快。想想他們可以1小時游7公里，且不斷保持這個速度。但最令人驚嘆的是，因為這裡有一定的深度，國王企鵝竟能潛水超過500公尺，並能閉氣長達23分鐘。我所研究的麥哲倫企鵝，則可潛水大約90公尺，並能在水中待上大約4.6分鐘。人類，沒有鰭：90公尺，3.5分鐘，而我懷疑聽眾裡是否真有人能閉氣長達3.5分鐘。你必須經過訓練才能閉氣那麼久。所以，企鵝確實是令人驚嘆的運動員。 另外，我不曾碰過不喜歡企鵝的人。牠們滑稽、牠們直立行走，並且，想當然爾，牠們很勤奮。更重要的是，牠們穿著體面。所以，牠們擁有人類喜歡的一切標準。不過，從科學的角度來看，牠們令人驚嘆是因為牠們扮演著哨兵的角色。牠們用很多不同的方式讓我們了解世界，尤其是海洋。 這是一張加拉帕戈斯企鵝的照片，在加拉帕戈斯的前端。這也是我後來研究的內容。我本以為我要研究的是加拉帕戈斯企鵝的社會習性，但你們知道企鵝是稀有動物，而加拉帕戈斯企鵝則是世界上最稀有的企鵝。爲何我認為自己會研究成功，我也不知道。然而，從我第一次來到這裡至今，企鵝的數量已發生劇烈的變化。當我第一次數企鵝並試著統計時，我們的作法是數出這些島上每一隻企鵝的喙。數量大概2000左右，所以我不知道企鵝的確切數量，不過我知道數到2000沒有問題。倘若你現在去數，國家公園的企鵝總數大概只剩500隻。因此，相較於40年前的企鵝數量，現在的企鵝只剩下1/4。我們多數的生存系統也面臨了這種情況。我們擁有的較之前少，且大部分是在急遽下降中。接下來，我要給大家看看一小部分的原因。 (叫聲) 那是企鵝的叫聲，告訴各位關注企鵝是很重要的。最重要的是，我已忘記第一次聽到這個聲音是在何時。你可以想像睡在費爾南迪納的第一夜，就聽到這孤獨單調的呼喚。我愛上了企鵝，這點無疑改變了我往後的人生。後來，我發現我在研究的其實是加拉帕戈斯改變了多少，且是最極端的變化。你曾聽過聖嬰現象，但這是全球的企鵝所必須適應的極端變化。這則是讓海水異常變冷的反聖嬰現象。藍色與綠色的地方代表水溫非常冷。你可以看到這股洋流的出現－它叫做祕魯寒流－一直流到加拉帕戈斯群島。還有這個深海洋流：克倫威爾洋流，在加拉帕戈斯周圍湧出。洋流帶來了大量養分。當加拉帕戈斯的天氣轉冷，小島變得豐饒，大家都有足夠的食物。 當極端的聖嬰現象發生，你看到的是一片紅色，完全沒有綠色在加拉帕戈斯周圍。這代表沒有上湧的洋流，基本上也代表沒有食物。於是，這裡就變成了沙漠，不單是對企鵝、海獅，和海鬣蜥而言。沒有食物，生物就會死亡。然而，當我過去研究企鵝的時候，我們根本不知道這會影響加拉帕戈斯島。想像你在一個島上，期盼能看到企鵝，但因為當地有聖嬰現象，所以看不到任何企鵝。牠們不是在繁衍後代，牠們根本不在那兒。那個時間點，我研究了海鬣蜥。然而，我們都知道這是個全球性的現像， 倘若觀察阿根廷海岸，也就是我現在工作的地方，那裡有個地方叫湯波角，那是世界上最大的麥哲倫企鵝居住地。大約在南緯44度，你可以看到這裡的變化很大。有幾年，寒流會一直流到巴西，但在反聖嬰現象的這幾年，寒流則不會流到巴西。因此，海洋不會一成不變，而是變幻莫測。但這種變化是企鵝必須面對的，且一點都不容易。因此，當我赴當地研究麥哲倫企鵝，我並沒有碰上麻煩。當地的麥哲倫企鵝很多。 這是二月時在湯波角拍的照片，所有企鵝都在沙灘上。我會到那邊是因為日本人想開始捕殺牠們，並把牠們變成時尚的高球手套、蛋白質，和油。幸運的是，還沒有人捕殺任何一隻企鵝，反而一年有十萬多名遊客去一睹牠們的盧山面目。然而，企鵝的數量正在下降中，且下降的幅度相當大，自我從1987年開始調查，已下降了大約百分之21，這些數據是根據企鵝的巢穴數量計算而得。現在大家看到的是湯波角的位置，此地的企鵝在很密集的地方繁殖。我們會知道這些，得歸因於長期的科學發展，也歸因於我們長期在當地的研究。科學不僅對決策很重要，它對改變我們的行爲，以及讓我們了解改變的方向也同樣重要。 因此，我們有了這項企鵝研究計畫。野生動物保護協會在過去27年中，贊助我和其他人，讓我們有辦法繪製出這些地圖。此外，我們知道不單只有加拉帕戈斯企鵝遭遇到麻煩，就連麥哲倫企鵝和其他種類的企鵝也碰到同樣的麻煩。所以，我們建立了一個全球企鵝社群，以關注企鵝面臨的真實困境。企鵝面臨的困境之一是石油污染。企鵝不喜歡石油，也不喜歡在石油中游泳。好事是，如果你看看阿根廷，你從這張合成的地圖上看不到石油污染。然而，真實情況是當我們到達阿根廷，我們常發現企鵝全身沾滿了油污。牠們只是在做自己的事，卻落得必須在飄滿石油的水中游泳。原因是當油輪載著石油，石油就是這些油輪的壓艙物，而當船身清空的時候，油輪就必須將水引入船體。每當油輪回航，油輪便將船中油膩的壓艙水往海中傾倒。為什麼會這樣？因為比較省錢，因為這些船隻不必爲環境付出真正的代價。我們通常不會這樣，而是想開始建立完好的會計系統，好讓人人都能爲自己的所作所為買單。 剛開始，阿根廷政府表示，「不，不可能。你在阿根廷看不到被石油污染的企鵝，我們有法律規定，不允許非法傾倒廢油，那是違法的。」所以我們花了九年的時間，讓政府相信當地有很多被石油污染的企鵝。有某幾年，像是這一年，我們發現超過80%的成年企鵝死在沙灘上，牠們全身沾滿了石油。這些小藍點代表幼雛，我們每年三月都會做這項調查，這代表幼鳥在這裡的時間只從1月到3月。所以牠們被石油污染的機會最多有三個月。你可以看到在某幾年中，超過60%的幼雛全身佈滿石油。 最後，政府聽進去了，令人訝異的是，他們也進行了修法。他們將油輪航線移到岸邊40公里外的地方，且人們傾倒廢油的非法動作也降低許多。所以，我們現在看到的是，只有極少數的企鵝遭到石油污染。為什麼還是有被石油污染的企鵝？因為我們解決了丘布特省的問題，它像是阿根廷境內的一個州，也是湯波角的所在地，那邊的海岸線大概有1000公里，但我們還沒解決阿根廷北部、烏拉圭，和巴西境內的問題。所以，我現在要給大家看看被這些問題影響的企鵝。 我只說兩件事。這是氣候變遷，這其實是項有趣的研究，因為我把衛星標記置於麥哲倫企鵝的背上。想想要說服捐款者贊助我們幾千美元，把衛星標記貼在企鵝的後背。然而，這個動作已持續十年以上了，以了解牠們的遷徙。我們認為我們需要一個海洋保護區，範圍大約30公里，接著，我們便把衛星標記貼在企鵝的背部。而企鵝則透過這些小點，展示牠們的所在位置，也就是於2003年孵化的小企鵝之位置。而你們看到的是某些企鵝會到離巢穴800公里遠的地方，這就意味著，當企鵝的另一半正在巢穴裏孵蛋，對方則在外頭覓食。牠們的離開時間越久，回來時另一半的狀況就越慘。想當然爾，這就演變成惡性循環，而企鵝也無法養活更多幼雛。 你看到在2003年，這些點代表企鵝的所在位置，牠們只能養活一半又多一點的幼雛。看到2006年，每個家庭則可養活快要四分之三的幼雛。你可以發現牠們離湯波角較近，牠們不會走遠。在過去一年，也就是2009年，你可以看到牠們只養活大約四分之一的幼雛。一些企鵝甚至去到離巢穴900公里遠的地方。這就像你在芝加哥工作然後被調至聖路易，你的另一半爲此感到不快，因為你必須付機票錢，而且你不在的時間變長了。對企鵝而言也一樣。比起10年前，牠們現在平均多走了40公里。 我們必須把這些訊息傳給普羅大眾。因此，我們和環境保護協會共同創辦一本刊物，這本刊物用新穎的方式傳達時下的尖端科學知識。由於我們有很會寫作的記者，他們可以萃取出訊息中的精華，並讓一般大眾都能輕易理解。因此，若你對尖端科學和先進的保育方法有興趣，你應該加入我們11位合作夥伴的行列中，他們之中有幾個人在現場，像是大自然保護協會。讀讀這本雜誌，因為我們必須將環境保護的訊息傳遞給普羅大眾。 好，最後我想說，在座各位，大概在你人生的某個階段裡，都曾與狗、貓，或某種寵物相處過，並把牠們視為獨立的個體，有些人甚至將牠們當作家庭中的一份子。如果各位和企鵝相處過，你們對待牠們的方式也會一樣。牠們是令人驚嘆的生物，且會改變各位看世界的方式，因為牠們和我們沒什麼不同。牠們正試圖維持生活，牠們正試圖養育後代，牠們正試圖在世界上活下去。 這是隻名叫渦輪的企鵝，渦輪從沒被飼養過，我們遇到牠，幫牠取了這個名字，因為牠會站在我的柴油車下面，一輛渦輪增壓車，所以我們就叫牠渦輪。渦輪習慣用牠的喙敲門，我們讓牠進來，然後牠就會到這裡來。我只是想給各位看看，某天當渦輪帶牠的朋友進來所發生的一件事。這就是渦輪，牠來到我的研究生面前並拍打自己的蹼，這種舉動牠只會對異性的企鵝做。如各位所見，牠沒有要咬人的意思。這隻傢伙則從未進來過，牠正想理解「到底發生了什麼事？這傢伙到底在做什麼？這真的非常奇怪。」你們即將看到我的研究生，也會看到渦輪非常熱切的在拍打自己的蹼。現在牠看向另一隻同伴，並說＂你真的很奇怪＂。再看看這個舉動，不友善。所以企鵝的個性大異其趣，就像我們的狗和貓一樣。 我們也正試圖蒐集訊息並學習掌握更多技術。因此，我們正試著把這些訊息輸入相關領域的電腦。企鵝總是被迫參與我們的研究，要不是協助我們，就是不協助我們。這是無線電頻率身分識別系統，我們在每隻企鵝腳上放一小粒米，米粒上有條碼以識別每隻企鵝。只要企鵝踏過墊子，就可以知道這是哪隻企鵝。 好，現在過來了幾隻企鵝。看，這隻正要回到巢穴中。牠們都在這個時間過來，走過那邊，並帶著悠閒的感覺。這裡有隻行色匆匆的母企鵝，牠確實急著趕回去，因為天氣很熱，而且牠還要餵小孩。那邊有個傢伙正悠閒的走過來，看他有多胖，牠也是要回來餵小孩。接著，我發現牠們在玩箱子，這是我的箱子，而這就是正在運作的系統。你看到這隻企鵝，牠走過去，看了看那些電線，牠不喜歡那條電線。牠拔掉插頭，我們的資料也就跟著不見了。 （大笑） 所以牠們真的是令人驚嘆的動物。好。最重要的是，只有你能改變你自己，也只有你才能改變世界，讓人們和企鵝所居住的世界，變得更為美好。 非常謝謝各位。
