Talk	en	zh-tw
denis_dutton_a_darwinian_theory_of_beauty	"Delighted to be here and to talk to you about a subject dear to my heart, which is beauty. I do the philosophy of art, aesthetics, actually, for a living. I try to figure out intellectually, philosophically, psychologically, what the experience of beauty is, what sensibly can be said about it and how people go off the rails in trying to understand it. Now this is an extremely complicated subject, in part because the things that we call beautiful are so different. I mean just think of the sheer variety — a baby's face, Berlioz's ""Harold in Italy,"" movies like ""The Wizard of Oz"" or the plays of Chekhov, a central California landscape, a Hokusai view of Mt. Fuji, ""Der Rosenkavalier,"" a stunning match-winning goal in a World Cup soccer match, Van Gogh's ""Starry Night,"" a Jane Austen novel, Fred Astaire dancing across the screen. This brief list includes human beings, natural landforms, works of art and skilled human actions. An account that explains the presence of beauty in everything on this list is not going to be easy. I can, however, give you at least a taste of what I regard as the most powerful theory of beauty we yet have. And we get it not from a philosopher of art, not from a postmodern art theorist or a bigwig art critic. No, this theory comes from an expert on barnacles and worms and pigeon breeding, and you know who I mean: Charles Darwin. Of course, a lot of people think they already know the proper answer to the question, ""What is beauty?"" It's in the eye of the beholder. It's whatever moves you personally. Or, as some people, especially academics prefer, beauty is in the culturally conditioned eye of the beholder. People agree that paintings or movies or music are beautiful because their cultures determine a uniformity of aesthetic taste. Taste for both natural beauty and for the arts travel across cultures with great ease. Beethoven is adored in Japan. Peruvians love Japanese woodblock prints. Inca sculptures are regarded as treasures in British museums, while Shakespeare is translated into every major language of the Earth. Or just think about American jazz or American movies — they go everywhere. There are many differences among the arts, but there are also universal, cross-cultural aesthetic pleasures and values. How can we explain this universality? The best answer lies in trying to reconstruct a Darwinian evolutionary history of our artistic and aesthetic tastes. We need to reverse-engineer our present artistic tastes and preferences and explain how they came to be engraved in our minds by the actions of both our prehistoric, largely pleistocene environments, where we became fully human, but also by the social situations in which we evolved. This reverse engineering can also enlist help from the human record preserved in prehistory. I mean fossils, cave paintings and so forth. And it should take into account what we know of the aesthetic interests of isolated hunter-gatherer bands that survived into the 19th and the 20th centuries. Now, I personally have no doubt whatsoever that the experience of beauty, with its emotional intensity and pleasure, belongs to our evolved human psychology. The experience of beauty is one component in a whole series of Darwinian adaptations. Beauty is an adaptive effect, which we extend and intensify in the creation and enjoyment of works of art and entertainment. As many of you will know, evolution operates by two main primary mechanisms. The first of these is natural selection — that's random mutation and selective retention — along with our basic anatomy and physiology — the evolution of the pancreas or the eye or the fingernails. Natural selection also explains many basic revulsions, such as the horrid smell of rotting meat, or fears, such as the fear of snakes or standing close to the edge of a cliff. Natural selection also explains pleasures — sexual pleasure, our liking for sweet, fat and proteins, which in turn explains a lot of popular foods, from ripe fruits through chocolate malts and barbecued ribs. The other great principle of evolution is sexual selection, and it operates very differently. The peacock's magnificent tail is the most famous example of this. It did not evolve for natural survival. In fact, it goes against natural survival. No, the peacock's tail results from the mating choices made by peahens. It's quite a familiar story. It's women who actually push history forward. Darwin himself, by the way, had no doubts that the peacock's tail was beautiful in the eyes of the peahen. He actually used that word. Now, keeping these ideas firmly in mind, we can say that the experience of beauty is one of the ways that evolution has of arousing and sustaining interest or fascination, even obsession, in order to encourage us toward making the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction. Beauty is nature's way of acting at a distance, so to speak. I mean, you can't expect to eat an adaptively beneficial landscape. It would hardly do to eat your baby or your lover. So evolution's trick is to make them beautiful, to have them exert a kind of magnetism to give you the pleasure of simply looking at them. Consider briefly an important source of aesthetic pleasure, the magnetic pull of beautiful landscapes. People in very different cultures all over the world tend to like a particular kind of landscape, a landscape that just happens to be similar to the pleistocene savannas where we evolved. This landscape shows up today on calendars, on postcards, in the design of golf courses and public parks and in gold-framed pictures that hang in living rooms from New York to New Zealand. It's a kind of Hudson River school landscape featuring open spaces of low grasses interspersed with copses of trees. The trees, by the way, are often preferred if they fork near the ground, that is to say, if they're trees you could scramble up if you were in a tight fix. The landscape shows the presence of water directly in view, or evidence of water in a bluish distance, indications of animal or bird life as well as diverse greenery and finally — get this — a path or a road, perhaps a riverbank or a shoreline, that extends into the distance, almost inviting you to follow it. This landscape type is regarded as beautiful, even by people in countries that don't have it. The ideal savanna landscape is one of the clearest examples where human beings everywhere find beauty in similar visual experience. But, someone might argue, that's natural beauty. How about artistic beauty? Isn't that exhaustively cultural? No, I don't think it is. And once again, I'd like to look back to prehistory to say something about it. It is widely assumed that the earliest human artworks are the stupendously skillful cave paintings that we all know from Lascaux and Chauvet. Chauvet caves are about 32,000 years old, along with a few small, realistic sculptures of women and animals from the same period. But artistic and decorative skills are actually much older than that. Beautiful shell necklaces that look like something you'd see at an arts and crafts fair, as well as ochre body paint, have been found from around 100,000 years ago. But the most intriguing prehistoric artifacts are older even than this. I have in mind the so-called Acheulian hand axes. The oldest stone tools are choppers from the Olduvai Gorge in East Africa. They go back about two-and-a-half-million years. These crude tools were around for thousands of centuries, until around 1.4 million years ago when Homo erectus started shaping single, thin stone blades, sometimes rounded ovals, but often in what are to our eyes an arresting, symmetrical pointed leaf or teardrop form. These Acheulian hand axes — they're named after St. Acheul in France, where finds were made in 19th century — have been unearthed in their thousands, scattered across Asia, Europe and Africa, almost everywhere Homo erectus and Homo ergaster roamed. Now, the sheer numbers of these hand axes shows that they can't have been made for butchering animals. And the plot really thickens when you realize that, unlike other pleistocene tools, the hand axes often exhibit no evidence of wear on their delicate blade edges. And some, in any event, are too big to use for butchery. Their symmetry, their attractive materials and, above all, their meticulous workmanship are simply quite beautiful to our eyes, even today. So what were these ancient — I mean, they're ancient, they're foreign, but they're at the same time somehow familiar. What were these artifacts for? The best available answer is that they were literally the earliest known works of art, practical tools transformed into captivating aesthetic objects, contemplated both for their elegant shape and their virtuoso craftsmanship. Hand axes mark an evolutionary advance in human history — tools fashioned to function as what Darwinians call ""fitness signals"" — that is to say, displays that are performances like the peacock's tail, except that, unlike hair and feathers, the hand axes are consciously cleverly crafted. Competently made hand axes indicated desirable personal qualities — intelligence, fine motor control, planning ability, conscientiousness and sometimes access to rare materials. Over tens of thousands of generations, such skills increased the status of those who displayed them and gained a reproductive advantage over the less capable. You know, it's an old line, but it has been shown to work — ""Why don't you come up to my cave, so I can show you my hand axes?"" (Laughter) Except, of course, what's interesting about this is that we can't be sure how that idea was conveyed, because the Homo erectus that made these objects did not have language. It's hard to grasp, but it's an incredible fact. This object was made by a hominid ancestor, Homo erectus or Homo ergaster, between 50,000 and 100,000 years before language. Stretching over a million years, the hand axe tradition is the longest artistic tradition in human and proto-human history. By the end of the hand axe epic, Homo sapiens — as they were then called, finally — were doubtless finding new ways to amuse and amaze each other by, who knows, telling jokes, storytelling, dancing, or hairstyling. Yes, hairstyling — I insist on that. For us moderns, virtuoso technique is used to create imaginary worlds in fiction and in movies, to express intense emotions with music, painting and dance. But still, one fundamental trait of the ancestral personality persists in our aesthetic cravings: the beauty we find in skilled performances. From Lascaux to the Louvre to Carnegie Hall, human beings have a permanent innate taste for virtuoso displays in the arts. We find beauty in something done well. So the next time you pass a jewelry shop window displaying a beautifully cut teardrop-shaped stone, don't be so sure it's just your culture telling you that that sparkling jewel is beautiful. Your distant ancestors loved that shape and found beauty in the skill needed to make it, even before they could put their love into words. Is beauty in the eye of the beholder? No, it's deep in our minds. It's a gift handed down from the intelligent skills and rich emotional lives of our most ancient ancestors. Our powerful reaction to images, to the expression of emotion in art, to the beauty of music, to the night sky, will be with us and our descendants for as long as the human race exists. Thank you. (Applause)"	我很高興能來這裡跟你們分享我所熱愛的主題那就是「美」我研究藝術哲學和美學並以此為業我試圖透過知性、哲學、心理學的層面探討「美」的感受究竟是什麼，我們如何用理智的語言來詮釋「美」人們如何透過非傳統的眼光來理解「美」這個主題何其複雜一部份的原因是，那些我們稱之為「美」的事物是如此不同試想它們是多麼南轅北轍：嬰孩的小臉白遼士的《哈羅爾德在義大利》交響曲《綠野仙蹤》之類的電影或是，契訶夫的戲劇加州中部的壯麗景觀葛飾北齋眼中的富士山歌劇《玫瑰騎士》世界盃足球賽精采致勝的那一球梵谷的《星夜》珍‧奧斯汀的小說螢光幕上弗雷德‧阿斯泰爾的舞蹈剛剛簡略列出來的事物，包括人物自然風景藝術作品，以及人類精妙的動作要找到一種說法能夠涵蓋剛剛所列出的所有美麗事物並不是容易的事 但是，我至少能讓你們稍微了解我認為我們目前所有有關「美」的理論中最有力的一個這個理論不是來自於藝術哲學家也不是來自後現代藝術理論學者或是擲地有聲的藝術評論家都不是。這個理論是出自一位研究藤壺、蠕蟲和鴿子繁殖的專家你們應該知道我講的是誰：就是達爾文當然，很多人認為自己已經知曉這個議題的最佳答案什麼是「美」?美是存在於觀者的眼中是能觸動你個人內心的東西或者像是某些人尤其是學術界的人所偏好的說法美是觀者在其個別的文化薰陶之下所產生的觀感人們都認同畫作、電影或音樂是美麗的因為他們的文化決定了他們美學品味的一致性對於自然美景和藝術的喜好品味能輕易地跨越各種文化貝多芬在日本備受推崇祕魯人喜歡日本木刻版畫印加雕刻在英國博物館被視為珍寶莎士比亞的作品則被翻譯成全世界各種主要語言或者光想想看美國的爵士樂或是美國電影在世界各地隨處可見藝術有各種不同的形式但卻也有普遍一致的跨文化的審美樂趣和美感價值 我們該怎麼解釋這種普遍性呢?最好的答案就在我們試著重建藝術與美學品味的演化歷史我們必須回溯目前既有藝術品味與偏好的源頭理解它們從何而來如何在我們的心志生根從史前的人類活動多活動在更新世環境中也就是人類進化成全人的地方以及不斷進化的社會狀態這樣的回溯動作同樣也能幫助保存記錄人類在史前記錄的活動像是化石，洞穴壁畫我們也應該考慮到那些舊石器時代的採獵族群他們的美學興趣是如何延續至十九與二十世紀 我個人並不懷疑美的體驗包含強烈的情緒與歡愉也就是屬於已進化人類的心理層面美的經驗是一系列的達爾文演化論中其中的一項元素美是種適應性的影響也就是我們加以延伸強調創作與享受藝術品與其娛樂性你們多數人大都知道演化的過程是由兩個主要機制所操控的第一為物競天擇也就是隨機突變與選擇性的保留加上人類基本的解剖與生理演化例如胰臟，眼睛或指甲的進化物競天擇同樣也能解釋我們普遍感到懼怕與厭惡的事物例如腐爛肉的可怕氣味或恐懼，對蛇或站在懸崖邊的恐懼物競天擇也能解釋歡愉性歡愉以及我們對甜食，油脂與蛋白質的喜好進而解釋現在許多受歡迎的食物是熟成乾果，巧克力麥芽與烤肋排 另一個演化的原則是性別選擇這項機制運作方式相當不同例如孔雀的華美尾巴就是好的例子這項機制跟物競天擇無關事實上，是剛剛好相反孔雀的尾巴目的是吸引雌孔雀決定要不要與之交配這其實是相當耳熟的故事女性是推動歷史演進的重要推手另外，達爾文自己也承認在母孔雀眼裡公孔雀的尾巴是非常美麗的他甚至用『美麗』一字來形容接下來，請將這些觀念記住我們可以說美的體驗是演化其中一個方式是喚起和維持其興趣或喜好甚至是迷戀讓我們能做出最適應環境的決定以利生存與繁衍美是一種也就是隔空影響的自然法則我是指，你無法吃下具有利適應條件的美好景色你不可能如此對你的小孩或你所愛的人所以演化的技巧就是讓他們變得美麗讓他們擁有某種吸引力讓你光是看著他們就感到歡樂 另外，關於美所帶來的歡愉另一個重要的來源就是美麗風景的吸引力全世界許多來自不同文化背景的人們都會喜歡特定種類的風景景觀而這樣的風景剛好與史前時代人類進化的環境相當類似這樣的景觀畫面會出現在今天的月曆上，明信片上高爾夫球場與公園的設計以及掛在客廳裡並以金色邊框裱起來不論是在紐約或是紐西蘭皆隨處可見這是類似哈德遜河畫派的風景畫有著廣闊的地理空間低矮的草坪許多樹叢散落其間另外，這裡的樹，大多像是樹枝幾乎觸地也就像是，如果你在站某個茂密點上便可以攀爬而上這樣的風景，也包含了水的蹤跡無論是直接地描繪在眼前或是在畫面遠處以藍色筆觸表現水的存在以及動物或鳥類還有多樣的綠色植物以及最後一條小徑或一條路或是河岸，海岸線延伸至遠處就像是邀請你前往這樣的景色被認為是美麗的即使在某些國家裡的人們不曾擁有這樣的景觀風景理想的大草原景色是其中一個明顯的例子說明不管來自哪裡的人類對美的認同是具有相同的視覺體驗 但有些人也許會問這只能說明自然美景那麼人工藝術品呢？藝術品難道不是完全的屬於個別文化性的嗎？但我並不這麼認為我想再一次請大家回到史前時代來說明其原因普遍認為最早人類的藝術品是高超技術的洞穴壁畫從法國Lasaux洞窟壁畫到Chauvet洞穴Chauvet洞穴大概已經三萬兩千年有著一些逼真的精緻雕塑品描繪當時代的女子與動物但藝術與裝飾技巧遠比所描繪的時代還要來得久遠美麗的貝殼項鍊就像是那種你會在藝術展覽場上找到的一樣例如赭石人體彩繪經研究迄今已超過十萬年 但其中最吸引人的史前藝術品其實比人體彩繪還要古老是像所謂的阿舍利手斧是最古老的石器，用來當做手斧是在東非奧度瓦伊峽谷所發掘的迄今已有約兩百多萬年的歷史這些原始的工具都已存在超過幾千世紀直到約一百四十萬年前當直立猿人開始削磨單一，輕薄的刀片有時磨成卵圓形狀但大多時候，在我們看來都是個對稱，尖頭樹葉狀或是淚珠的形狀這些阿舍利手斧是以法國的阿歇爾遺址命名當初於十九世紀時在這個地方開始發掘出土的幾千把此類型手斧遍及亞洲，歐洲與非洲大陸幾乎有直立猿人與非洲匠人地方都有其蹤跡現在，光是這些斧頭的數量便可證明這種手斧不光光只是用來宰殺動物當我們進一步了解，會發現此項假設為真和其他史前工具不同在這些斧頭輕薄的刀片上多數都沒有磨耗的痕跡而且有些的體型明顯過大不適於用在屠宰上他們其對稱，流線的材質以及非常細緻的工藝技術在我們今天看來都是非常美麗的 這些年代久遠我是指，他們歷史非常久遠，陌生但同時我們卻也感到十分熟悉這些工藝品的用途是什麼？最合理可能的答案是他們基本上是目前已知年代最為古老的藝術品實用工具轉變成非常吸引人的藝術品就其美麗的形狀與其精湛的工藝這些斧頭在人類的歷史上留下演化進步的印記工具使之合於運用是達爾文學派稱之的合適性也就是說，這代表一種表現，展示行為就像孔雀開屏另外，不像頭髮或是羽毛這手斧是有目的性地刻意精密製作製作合適的斧頭其中展現出美好的人性：智能，精細動作控制計畫的能力勤奮與獲得特殊材料的能力經過數萬個世代交替如此精湛的技術提高了製作者的地位及比起其他無技能者較具有生殖交配的優勢有句古諺現在聽來仍是相當正確『入吾洞穴，獻君觀其手杖』 （笑聲） 當然，有趣的還有我們無法確定這概念是如何形成的因為製作這些物件的直立猿人尚未使用語言所以使得這很難去了解這了不起的事實這物件是由人類的祖先直立猿人或非洲匠人所製作的是大約在語言發明前的五十至十萬年以前斧頭傳統時間橫跨超越一百萬年是人類與原始人類歷史上時間最長的藝術傳統到了斧頭年代的尾聲，進入所謂的現代人時代人類終於開始尋找新方法來娛樂彼此，讓對方欣賞以說笑話故事，跳舞或是髮型等的方法沒錯，是頭髮造型，我堅持用這個詞 對我們現代人來說工藝技術是用來打造小說裡或是電影裡的想像國度透過音樂，繪畫與舞蹈來表達心中的強烈情感但是這仍有一個非常根本的性質早在我們祖先的身上便具有的對藝術渴忘的堅持：那些我們在技藝表演中所發現的美麗從 Lascaux壁畫到羅浮宮到卡內基音樂廳人類有著與生俱來追求精湛工藝的美感我們認為的美是指手藝精湛 所以下回當你走過珠寶店的櫥窗展示著完美切割淚珠型的寶石別太過肯定那是你的文化教育你那顆閃閃發亮的珠寶是美的表徵你的遠古祖先早已能欣賞喜愛其製造工藝早在他們有能力把熱情付諸於文字之前所以美僅僅止於觀者的眼裡？不，它早已深根地固埋於我們之中那是一份禮物，由我們擁有智能技術與豐富情感的遠古祖先所傳遞下來的我們對圖畫所產生的強烈反應將情感化成藝術能體會音樂及夜空的美好自人類誕生的那一刻這些美好都將與我們同在 謝謝 （掌聲）
