Talk	en	zh-tw
dennis_vanengelsdorp_a_plea_for_bees	What I'd like you to do is, just really quickly, is just, sort of, nod to the person on your right, and then nod to the person on your left. (Laughter) Now, chances are that over the last winter, if you had been a beehive, either you or one of the two people you just nodded at would have died. Now, that's an awful lot of bees. And this is the second year in a row we have lost over 30 percent of the colonies, or we estimate we've lost 30 percent of the colonies over the winter. Now, that's a lot, a lot of bees, and that's really important. And most of those losses are because of things we know. We know that there are these varroa mites that have introduced and caused a lot of losses, and we also have this new phenomenon, which I talked about last year, Colony Collapse Disorder. And here we see a picture on top of a hill in Central Valley last December. And below, you can see all these out yards, or temporary yards, where the colonies are brought in until February, and then they're shipped out to the almonds. And one documentary writer, who was here and looked at this two months after I was here, described this not as beehives but as a graveyard, with these empty white boxes with no bees left in them. Now, I'm going to sum up a year's worth of work in two sentences to say that we have been trying to figure out what the cause of this is. And what we know is that it's as if the bees have caught a flu. And this flu has wiped through the population of bees. In some cases, and in fact in most cases in one year, this flu was caused by a new virus to us, or newly identified by us, called Israeli Acute Paralysis virus. It was called that because a guy in Israel first found it, and he now regrets profoundly calling it that disease, because, of course, there's the implication. But we think this virus is pretty ubiquitous. It's also pretty clear that the bees sometimes catch other viruses or other flus, and so the question we're still struggling with, and the question that keeps us up at night, is why have the bees suddenly become so susceptible to this flu, and why are they so susceptible to these other diseases? And we don't have the answer to that yet, and we spend a lot of time trying to figure that out. We think perhaps it's a combination of factors. We know from the work of a very large and dynamic working team that, you know, we're finding a lot of different pesticides in the hive, and surprisingly, sometimes the healthiest hives have the most pesticides. And so we discover all these very strange things that we can't begin to understand. And so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health. Now of course, if you lose a lot of colonies, beekeepers can replace them very quickly. And that's why we've been able to recover from a lot of loss. If we lost one in every three cows in the winter, you know, the National Guard would be out. But what beekeepers can do is, if they have one surviving colony, they can split that colony in two. And then the one half that doesn't have a queen, they can buy a queen. It comes in the mail; it can come from Australia or Hawaii or Florida, and you can introduce that queen. And in fact, America was the first country that ever did mail-delivery queens and in fact, it's part of the postal code that you have to deliver queens by mail in order to make sure that we have enough bees in this country. If you don't just want a queen, you can buy, actually, a three-pound package of bees, which comes in the mail, and of course, the Postal Office is always very concerned when they get, you know, your three-pound packages of bees. And you can install this in your hive and replace that dead-out. So it means that beekeepers are very good at replacing dead-outs, and so they've been able to cover those losses. So even though we've lost 30 percent of the colonies every year, the same number of colonies have existed in the country, at about 2.4 million colonies. Now, those losses are tragic on many fronts, and one of those fronts is for the beekeeper. And it's really important to talk about beekeepers first, because beekeepers are among the most fascinating people you'll ever meet. If this was a group of beekeepers, you would have everyone from the card-carrying NRA member who's, you know, live free or die, to the, you know, the self-expressed quirky San Francisco backyard pig farmer. (Laughter) And you get all of these people in the same room, and they're all engaged and they're getting along, and they're all there because of the passion for bees. Now, there's another part of that community which are the commercial beekeepers, the ones who make their livelihood from beekeeping alone. And these tend to be some of the most independent, tenacious, intuitive, you know, inventive people you will ever meet. They're just fascinating. And they're like that all over the world. I had the privilege of working in Haiti just for two weeks earlier this year. And Haiti, if you've ever been there, is just a tragedy. I mean, there may be 100 explanations for why Haiti is the impoverished nation it is, but there is no excuse to see that sort of squalor. But you meet this beekeeper, and I met this beekeeper here, and he is one of the most knowledgeable beekeepers I've ever met. No formal education, but very knowledgeable. We needed beeswax for a project we were working on; he was so capable, he was able to render the nicest block of beeswax I have ever seen from cow dung, tin cans and his veil, which he used as a screening, right in this meadow. And so that ingenuity is inspiring. We also have Dave Hackenberg, who is the poster child of CCD. He's the one who first identified this condition and raised the alarm bells. And he has a history of these trucks, and he's moved these bees up and down the coast. And a lot of people talk about trucks and moving bees, and that being bad, but we've done that for thousands of years. The ancient Egyptians used to move bees up and down the Nile on rafts, so this idea of a movable bee force is not new at all. And one of our real worries with Colony Collapse Disorder is the fact that it costs so much money to replace those dead-out colonies. And you can do that one year in a row, you may be able to do it two years in a row. But if you're losing 50 percent to 80 percent of your colonies, you can't survive three years in a row. And we're really worried about losing this segment of our industry. And that's important for many fronts, and one of them is because of that culture that's in agriculture. And these migratory beekeepers are the last nomads of America. You know, they pick up their hives; they move their families once or twice in a year. And if you look at Florida, in Dade City, Florida, that's where all the Pennsylvania beekeepers go. And then 20 miles down the road is Groveland, and that's where all the Wisconsin beekeepers go. And if you're ever in Central Valley in February, you go to this café at 10 o'clock in the morning, Kathy and Kate's. And that's where all the beekeepers come after a night of moving bees into the almond groves. They all have their breakfast and complain about everyone right there. And it's a great experience, and I really encourage you to drop in at that diner during that time, because that's quite essential American experience. And we see these families, these nomadic families, you know, father to son, father to son, and these guys are hurting. And they're not people who like to ask for help, although they are the most helpful people ever. If there's one guy who loses all his bees because of a truck overhaul, everyone pitches in and gives 20 hives to help him replace those lost colonies. And so, it's a very dynamic, and I think, historic and exciting community to be involved with. Of course, the real importance for bees is not the honey. And although I highly encourage you, all use honey. I mean, it's the most ethical sweetener, and you know, it's a dynamic and fun sweetener. But we estimate that about one in three bites of food we eat is directly or indirectly pollinated by honeybees. Now, I want to just illustrate that in the fact that if we look at the breakfast I had yesterday morning — a little cranberry juice, some fruits, some granola, I should have had whole wheat bread, I realized, but you know, jam on my Wonderbread, and some coffee — and had we taken out all those ingredients, — except for the almonds I wasn't going to pick out from the granola — if we had taken out all those ingredients the bees had indirectly or directly pollinated, we wouldn't have much on our plate. So if we did not have bees, it's not like we would starve, but clearly our diet would be diminished. It's said that for bees, the flower is the fountain of life, and for flowers bees are the messengers of love. And that's a really great expression, because really, bees are the sex workers for flowers. They are, you know — they get paid for their services. They get paid by pollen and nectar, to move that male sperm, the pollen, from flower to flower. And there are flowers that are self-infertile. That means they can't — the pollen in their bloom can't fertilize themselves. So in an apple orchard, for instance, you'll have rows of 10 apples of one variety, and then you have another apple tree that's a different type of pollen. And bees are very faithful. When they're out pollinating or gathering pollen from one flower, they stay to that crop exclusively, in order to help generate. And of course, they're made to carry this pollen. They build up a static electric charge and the pollen jumps on them and helps spread that pollen from bloom to bloom. However, honeybees are a minority. Honeybees are not native to America; they were introduced with the colonialists. And there are actually more species of bees than there are mammals and birds combined. In Pennsylvania alone, we have been surveying bees for 150 years, and very intensely in the last three years. We have identified over 400 species of bees in Pennsylvania. Thirty-two species have not been identified or found in the state since 1950. Now, that could be because we haven't been sampling right, but it does, I think, suggest that something's wrong with the pollinator force. And these bees are fascinating. We have bumblebees on the top. And bumblebees are what we call eusocial: they're not truly social, because only the queen is, over winter. We also have the sweat bees, and these are little gems flying around. They're like tiny little flies and they fly around. And then you have another type of bee, which we call kleptoparasites, which is a very fancy way of saying, bad-minded, murdering — what's the word I'm looking for? Murdering — Audience: Bee? Dennis vanEngelsdorp: Bee. Okay, thanks. (Laughter) What these bees do is, they sit there. These solitary bees, they drill a hole in the ground or drill a hole in a branch, and they collect pollen and make it into a ball, and they lay an egg on it. Well, these bees hang out at that hole, and they wait for that mother to fly away, they go in, eat the egg, and lay their own egg there. So they don't do any work. And so, in fact, if you know you have these kleptoparasitic bees, you know that your environment is healthy, because they're top-of-the-food-chain bees. And in fact, there is now a red list of pollinators that we're worried have disappeared, and on top of that list are a lot of these kleptoparasites, but also these bumblebees. And in fact, if you guys live on the West Coast, go to these websites here, and they're really looking for people to look for some of these bumblebees, because we think some have gone extinct. Or some, the population has declined. And so it's not just honeybees that are in trouble, but we don't understand these native pollinators or all those other parts of our community. And of course, bees are not the only important factor here. There are other animals that pollinate, like bats, and bats are in trouble too. And I'm glad I'm a bee man and not a bat man, because there's no money to research the bat problems. And bats are dying at an extraordinary rate. White-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats. If there's a cave in New York that had 15,000 bats in it, and there are 1,000 left. That's like San Francisco becoming the population of half of this county in three years. And so that's incredible. And there's no money to do that. But I'm glad to say that I think we know the cause of all these conditions, and that cause is NDD: Nature Deficit Disorder. And that is that I think that what we have in our society is, we forgot our connection with nature. And I think if we reconnect to nature, we'll be able to have the resources and that interest to solve these problems. And I think that there is an easy cure for NDD. And that is, make meadows and not lawns. And I think we have lost our connection, and this is a wonderful way of reconnecting to our environment. I've had the privilege of living by a meadow for the last little while, and it is terribly engaging. And if we look at the history of lawns, it's actually rather tragic. It used to be, two, three hundred years ago, that a lawn was a symbol of prestige, and so it was only the very rich that could keep these green actually, deserts: they're totally sterile. Americans spent, in 2001 — 11 percent of all pesticide use was done on lawns. Five percent of our greenhouse gases are produced by mowing our lawns. And so it's incredible the amount of resources we've spent keeping our lawns, which are these useless biosystems. And so we need to rethink this idea. In fact, you know, the White House used to have sheep in front in order to help fund the war effort in World War I, which probably is not a bad idea; it wouldn't be a bad idea. I want to say this not because I'm opposed completely to mowing lawns. I think that there is perhaps some advantage to keeping lawns at a limited scale, and I think we're encouraged to do that. But I also want to reinforce some of the ideas we've heard here, because having a meadow or living by a meadow is transformational. That it is amazing that connection we can have with what's there. These milkweed plants have grown up in my meadow over the last four years. Add to watch the different plants, or insects, that come to these flowers, to watch that — and we've heard about, you know, this relationship you can have with wine, this companion you can have as it matures and as it has these different fragrances. And this is a companion, and this is a relationship that never dries up. You never run out of that companion as you drink this wine, too. And I encourage you to look at that. Now, not all of us have meadows, or lawns that we can convert, and so you can always, of course, grow a meadow in a pot. Bees apparently, can be the gateway to, you know, other things. So I'm not saying that you should plant a meadow of pot, but a pot in a meadow. But you can also have this great community of city or building-top beekeepers, these beekeepers that live — This is in Paris where these beekeepers live. And everyone should open a beehive, because it is the most amazing, incredible thing. And if we want to cure ourselves of NDD, or Nature Deficit Disorder, I think this is a great way of doing it. Get a beehive and grow a meadow, and watch that life come back into your life. And so with that, I think that what we can do, if we do this, we can make sure that our future — our more perfect future — includes beekeepers and it includes bees and it includes those meadows. And that journey — that journey of transformation that occurs as you grow your meadow and as you keep your bees or you watch those native bees there — is an extremely exciting one. And I hope that you experience it and I hope you tell me about it one day. So thank you very much for being here.  Thank you very much.	我只想請大家迅速地，稍微向你右邊的人點個頭，然後再向你左邊的人點個頭。（笑聲）注意啊！假如 一個人是一箱蜂的話，去年冬天，(蜜蜂死亡的)可能性就像，你或你朝著點頭的人中的一個去世了一樣。大家知道嗎！ 那可是相當多的蜜蜂。而且這才是 (蜂群開始死亡的)第二年我們就已經損失了超過30%蜂群，或者我們看成 在一個冬天內我們損失了30%的蜂群。 天哪！那是許多，許多蜜蜂，那損失很大。大部分損失是 我們知道的原因造成的。我們知道這些蜂蟎導致和造成了大量損失，我們還有新的問題就是去年我介紹過的蜂群崩潰失調症。我們看一張去年12月中央峽谷的一個小山頂上的照片。你能看到照片下部這些(房)外庭院，或者說臨時庭院，2月份之前蜂群被運到這裏，後被船送到杏樹園中。在我到這兒以後，一位紀實作家來到這兒做了兩個月的調查，他/她筆下這些不是蜂箱這裏是擺滿沒有蜜蜂的空空的白盒子的(蜜蜂的)墓地。 現在，我來用兩句話總結一下一年來的工作，告訴大家我們一直在努力尋找造成這種結果的原因。就我們所知蜜蜂好像是得了一場流感。並且這場流感已經在蜂群中氾濫。有的實際上是一年中的大部分流感是由一種病毒引起的，這種病毒對我來說是新的或者說最近近才被我們鑒定的，它叫以色列急性麻痹病毒。這一名字的由來是因為以色列的一個傢伙首先發現了它，但是他現在很後悔給這種病起了那個名字，因為，很顯然，名字本身暗含著某種意思。但是我們認為這種病毒是無處不在的。另外，毋庸置疑，蜜蜂有時候也會感染其他病毒或其他流感，所以我們還在艱難研究的，還在令我們徹夜難眠的問題是為什麼這些蜜蜂突然變得對這場流感沒有抵抗力，為什麼它們在這些其他疾病面前也如此不堪一擊？但是我們還沒有答案，雖然已經付出了很多時間來研究。我們認為這可能是多種因素共同造成的。我們從一個龐大而活躍的工作組得知，蜂巢中有很多種殺蟲劑，不可思議的是，有時候最健康的蜂巢有最多殺蟲的劑種類。我們發現的所有這些非常奇怪的現象令我們費解。 因此我們想到綜合研究蜂群健康狀況。毫無疑問，如果損失了很多群蜂，養蜂人當然能很快進行補充。因此我們有能力從大量損失中恢復過來。大家知道，如果我們在冬天損失三分之一的奶牛，應急部隊就要出動了。但是養蜂人怎麼辦呢，即使他們只剩下一個蜂群，他們還能將那個蜂群分成兩個。然後，給沒有蜂后的那半群蜂買一個蜂后。蜂后是郵寄來的；而且不管它是來自澳大利亞還是夏威夷還是佛羅里達，你都可以把它變成那半群蜂的蜂后。實際上，美國是第一個通過郵件運送蜂后的國家，而且，必須要通過郵件郵寄蜂后是郵政法的一部分這可以保證我們國家有足夠的蜜蜂。如果你不只是想要一隻蜂后，你還可以買到一包三磅重的蜜蜂。當然，郵局會很小心的處理你的三磅蜜蜂的。你可以把這包蜜蜂放入蜂箱中更新死光的蜂群。這意味著養蜂人非常擅長更新死光的蜂群，所以他們有承受那些損失的能力。所以即使我們每年都損失30%的蜂群，我們國家還依然會有相同數量的蜂群，大約 2,400,000群蜜蜂。 雖然如此，那些損失在很多方面還是慘痛的，其中一方面就是養蜂人的損失。首先說說養蜂人是很重要的，因為他們將會是你遇到的最讓人著迷的人之一。如果這兒有一群養蜂人，你會(從中)找到各種各樣的人，從來福槍協會會員到聖-佛朗西斯科後院中看起來怪怪的的豬官兒。（笑聲）他們在同一屋簷下，他們都很投入而且相處的很好，他們是因為喜歡蜜蜂而到一起的。現在談談，養蜂人中另外一部分人他們是商業養蜂人，也就是那些僅靠養蜂來養家糊口的養蜂人。他們將可能是你碰到的人當中一些最獨立、最頑強、最感性、最富創造性的人。他們很迷人，而且全世界的商業養蜂人都是那樣的。 今年早些時候我很榮幸在海地工作了兩周。海地，如果你去過那裏，你就知道他簡直是個悲劇。我是說，即使有100條理由解釋為什麼海地是那樣貧窮，它也沒有理由那樣的破敗不堪。但是你會碰到這個養蜂人，我在那兒遇到了他，他是我曾經遇到過的最有知識的養蜂人中的一個。沒受過正規教育，但是卻有很多知識。我們的一個專案需要蜂蠟；他非常能幹，他做出了我所見過的最好的一塊兒蜂蠟，使用了牛糞、錫罐和他的蓋頭，他把蓋頭當作紗網使用，(他)就在這片草甸上(做蜂蠟塊的)。他的技術讓人很受啟發。 我們還有戴維-海肯伯格，他是蜂群崩潰失調症的代表人物。是他首先發現了蜂群崩潰失調症並敲響了警鐘。他很早就使用這些卡車沿著海岸線上下轉運這些蜜蜂。雖然許多人認為轉運蜜蜂不好，但是轉運蜜蜂已經有數千年的歷史了。古埃及人就曾就用筏子沿著尼羅河上下轉運蜜蜂，這說明運動的蜜蜂大軍一點兒也不新鮮。蜂群崩潰失調症讓我們真正憂心的原因之一是更新那些死亡的蜂群要花費大量的錢財。我們有能力更新一年，也許還能連著更新兩年。但是如果損失50-80%的蜂群，連續三年就垮了。我們確實很擔心損失掉這部分產業。 因為養蜂業在很多方面都很重要，其中之一就是在農業上。這些遷徙的養蜂人是美國最後的遊牧者。大家知道，他們帶著蜂箱，一年內搬一次或兩次家。你們看佛羅裏達州，達迪市是賓夕法尼亞州養蜂人的去處。然後從達迪市順著這條路往下20英里是哥如福蘭德，那裏是所有威斯康辛州養蜂人的去處。要是你二月份在中央峽谷，請在早上10點去這間咖啡館，店名是凱西和凱特之家。那裏是所有養蜂人在忙了一夜將蜜蜂移到杏樹林他們在那裏一邊吃早餐一邊互相抱怨。那種經歷很棒，我真的鼓勵大家那時候去那個小餐館，因為那是必不可少的美國體驗。我們再來看那些家庭，那些遊牧家庭，從父母到子女都在忙著侍弄蜜蜂。他們不喜歡求人，但卻最樂於助人。比如有人因為卡車大修而損失了所有蜜蜂，養蜂人們都會過來送給他20群蜂幫他彌補損失。所以，我覺得這是一個很有活力、歷史而且讓人振奮的社區，很值得交往。 當然，蜜蜂真正的重要性並不是蜂蜜。雖然我大力支持你們使用蜂蜜。因為它是最“道德”的甜味劑，它是有生命的好甜味劑。而且據估計差不多在我們的每三口食物中就有一口是直接或是間接由蜜蜂傳粉的。現在，我想用事實證明它，看一下我昨天的早餐：一點紅莓汁、一些水果和一些格蘭諾拉麥片，我也意識到我應該吃全麥麵包，但是，麵包加果醬還有一些咖啡，如果我們把那些食物拿走只有杏肉我沒有從格蘭諾拉麥片中拿出去—如果我們拿走那些直接或間接由蜜蜂授粉的東西，我們的餐盤上就沒有多少東西了。所以，如果沒有蜜蜂，我們好像還不至於挨餓，但毫無疑問的是我們的食譜將會縮小。人們說花是蜜蜂的生命之源，而蜜蜂是花愛的使者。 說的真是太好了，因為蜜蜂的確是花的“性工作者”。它們，要知道，它們的服務是有償的。它們“收取”花粉和花蜜，才來把雄性配子，也就是花粉， 從一朵花傳給另一朵花。有些花不能自我受精。就是說它們不能—同一朵花的花粉不能使自己的受精。如果在一個蘋果園裏，你有10行同一個品種的蘋果樹，然後還有一棵蘋果樹它有不同的花粉型。蜜蜂會非常忠誠。當它們出去傳粉或從某種花上採集花粉時，它們會專門針對那種植物來幫助它結果。當然，它們生下來就是搬運花粉的。它們在身上積累靜電，這樣花粉就會跳到它們身上，它們就幫著把那個花粉叢一朵花帶到另一朵花。 儘管如此，蜜蜂只是少數派。蜜蜂的老家不是美國；它們是被殖民者帶來的。實際上蜂的種類比哺乳動物和鳥類加起來種類還多。單單在賓夕法尼亞州，我們已經對蜂類盡行了150年的調查，並且最近這三年的調查非常詳細。在賓夕法尼亞州我們鑒定的蜂類已經超過400種。其中32種是在1950年以後鑒定或發現的。那可能是因為以前採集方法不當，但是，我想這確實讓人覺得傳粉者們出了什麼問題。這些蜂類們讓人著迷。 上面是熊蜂。熊蜂是群居性的，但是它們不是真正的社會性昆蟲，因為只有蜂後活過冬天。還有汗蜂，它們就像是飛來飛去的小寶石。它們就像小蒼蠅一樣到處飛。另外我們還有另外一類蜂，叫做偷寄生蜂，它還有個很有創意的名字：壞脾氣的謀殺—我在想那個詞呢？聽眾：蜂?鄧尼斯-範-恩格勒斯多普:蜂!是的，謝謝！（笑聲）這些蜂的做法就是守株待兔。這些獨居蜂，它們在地面或者樹枝上打好洞，收集來花粉做成花粉球，然後在花粉球上產一枚卵。那麼，這些呆在洞外面的謀殺蜂，等到蜂媽媽飛走後跑到洞裏吃掉裏面的卵，並在那兒產下自己的卵。 所以它們是不勞而獲。然而，實際上，如果你發現周圍有這些偷寄生蜂就說明環境是健康的，因為它們是食物鏈頂端的蜂類。目前，我們有一份紅色名錄記錄著我們擔心可能已經消失了的傳粉動物種類，並且在那份名單的開頭有很多種這些偷寄生蜂，和這些熊蜂。並且，如果你們生活在西海岸，去流覽一下這些網站，它們在找人去尋找一些種類的熊蜂，因為我們認為某些種類已經滅絕了。 有些種群已經變小了。 所以有麻煩的並不僅僅是蜜蜂，我們對這些本土的傳粉者或者我們人類以外的東西都缺乏瞭解。當然，蜂類並不是這裏唯一重要的要素。還有其他傳粉動物，比如蝙蝠，蝙蝠也有麻煩了。我很慶倖我是個“蜂人”而不是“蝙蝠人”，因為沒有資金支持蝙蝠問題的研究。但是蝙蝠的死亡速度非常快。白鼻子綜合症已經消滅了成群成群的蝙蝠。如果紐約的一個山洞裏的15,000只蝙蝠，只剩下1,000只了。 那(蝙蝠死亡的速度)就好像是聖-佛朗西斯科的人口在三年內變成這個縣城人口的一半。那是多麼驚人啊。 我們沒錢去解決那個問題。 但是我高興因為我想我們知道所有這些情況的原因，那就是NDD：大自然缺失症。也就是，我覺得，我們的社會，我們忽視了和大自然的聯繫。我想如果重新我們親近大自然，我們就會有資源和興趣來解決這些問題。我認為有一個簡單的方法就可以治療NDD。那就是，種植草甸而不是草坪。我覺得我們已經失去了和大自然的聯繫，而這是一種把我們重新和周圍的環境聯繫起來的好方法。不久前我曾有幸在一片草甸旁生活了一小段時間，非常迷人。讓我們審視一下草坪的歷史，那簡直是個悲劇。二三百年前草坪曾經象徵榮譽和地位，所以那時候只有很富有的人才能享有那些綠色的草坪，實際上，是綠色沙漠：因為它們沒有一點兒生機。2001 年，美國人在草坪上使用的殺蟲劑占殺蟲劑總使用量的11%。我們釋放的溫室氣體中有5%來源於草坪修剪。 所以我們花費了大量的資源來養護我們的草坪 — 那些沒用的生物系統。所以我們需要重新審視這一做法。告訴你們，事實上白宮前面被用來養羊以資助第一次世界大戰，那可能是個不錯的主意；不是個壞主意。我說這些可不是因為我完全反對修剪草坪。我覺得在小範圍內種植草坪興許還有些好處，並且應該受到鼓勵。但是我也要再強調一下剛才我的某些觀點，因為擁有一 片草甸或者居住在草甸旁邊是完全不一樣的。親近草甸真的很棒。4年時間這些乳草植物已經在我的草甸裏長大了。除了能觀賞不同的植物或者來拜訪這些花的昆蟲，欣賞它們，告訴你們，我們還聽說你還能和葡萄酒聯繫起來，你就有了一個不斷長大並散發出這些不同的芳香的朋友。並且這個朋友，這種友誼永遠不會乾涸。當你喝下這個葡萄酒你也永遠不會離開那個朋友。請支持大家那麼做。 雖然並不是每個人都有草甸，或者可供改變為草甸的草坪，那麼你當然可以在花盆裏種一小片草甸。很明顯蜂類可以成為通向其他事物的一扇門。所以我不是說你應該在花盆中種一片草甸，而是在草甸裏“種”一個花盆。你們還可以組建這種很好的城市團體或者樓頂養蜂人團體，這些養蜂人生活在，這些養蜂人生活在巴黎。每個人都應該養上一窩蜂，每個人都應該養上一窩蜂，因為那是最有意思的事情。所以如果我們想治癒我們的NDD或者大自然缺乏症我覺得養蜂是個很好的方法。養一窩蜜蜂，種一片草甸，體驗那些生命回到你的生活中。如果那樣的話，如果我們這麼做，我想我們可以創造，我們可以保證我們的未來 -我們更加美好的未來-有養蜂人、蜂和那些草甸。那個過程 –那個發生在你種植草甸、飼養蜜蜂或者欣賞那些本土蜂類的時候發生轉變的過程- 會非常非常的令人興奮。我希望你們能經歷那些並且有一天能向我談論那些。好！非常感謝大家光臨。非常感謝。
