Talk	en	zh-tw
derek_sivers_keep_your_goals_to_yourself	"Everyone, please think of your biggest personal goal. For real — you can take a second. You've got to feel this to learn it. Take a few seconds and think of your personal biggest goal, okay? Imagine deciding right now that you're going to do it. Imagine telling someone that you meet today what you're going to do. Imagine their congratulations, and their high image of you. Doesn't it feel good to say it out loud? Don't you feel one step closer already, like it's already becoming part of your identity? Well, bad news: you should have kept your mouth shut, because that good feeling now will make you less likely to do it. The repeated psychology tests have proven that telling someone your goal makes it less likely to happen. Any time you have a goal, there are some steps that need to be done, some work that needs to be done in order to achieve it. Ideally you would not be satisfied until you'd actually done the work. But when you tell someone your goal and they acknowledge it, psychologists have found that it's called a ""social reality."" The mind is kind of tricked into feeling that it's already done. And then because you've felt that satisfaction, you're less motivated to do the actual hard work necessary. (Laughter) So this goes against conventional wisdom that we should tell our friends our goals, right? So they hold us to it. So, let's look at the proof. 1926: Kurt Lewin, founder of social psychology, called this ""substitution."" 1933: Wera Mahler found when it was acknowledged by others, it felt real in the mind. 1982, Peter Gollwitzer wrote a whole book about this, and in 2009, he did some new tests that were published. It goes like this: 163 people across four separate tests. Everyone wrote down their personal goal. Then half of them announced their commitment to this goal to the room, and half didn't. Then everyone was given 45 minutes of work that would directly lead them towards their goal, but they were told that they could stop at any time. Now, those who kept their mouths shut worked the entire 45 minutes on average, and when asked afterward, said that they felt that they had a long way to go still to achieve their goal. But those who had announced it quit after only 33 minutes, on average, and when asked afterward, said that they felt much closer to achieving their goal. So if this is true, what can we do? Well, you could resist the temptation to announce your goal. You can delay the gratification that the social acknowledgment brings, and you can understand that your mind mistakes the talking for the doing. But if you do need to talk about something, you can state it in a way that gives you no satisfaction, such as, ""I really want to run this marathon, so I need to train five times a week and kick my ass if I don't, okay?"" So audience, next time you're tempted to tell someone your goal, what will you say? (Silence) Exactly! Well done. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"請各位想想你人生最大的目標要認真想想，才有辦法體會想到你人生最大的目標了嗎？現在想像你要實現這個目標想像你告訴某個人，你要實現這個目標想像大家恭喜著你想像大家眼中的你這種感覺是不是很好？是否覺得離目標又更近一步了？好像變成自己的一部分？ 告訴你個壞消息，你應該閉嘴才對的因為那開心的感覺反而降低你的實踐度許多心理學測試都證明將你的目標告訴別人反而不容易實現每次訂定一個目標都有一定的步驟、工作要做才會實現正常情況是，你達成目標後，才有滿足感但當你告訴別人時，他們對你的讚賞、支持心理學家將此稱作「社會現實」你的心理造成一種已經實現的錯覺當你感受到那滿足感的時候你動力因此減低該做的事就怠惰了這和我們普遍認為的目標應該告訴朋友，因為他們能監督我們的想法相抵觸對吧？ 那我拿出點證明1926年，社會心理學之父庫爾特·勒溫(Kurt Lewin)將之稱為「替代作用」1933年，Wera Mahler發現當別人讚賞你的時候，心理會覺得真實1982年，Peter Gollwitzer出了一本相關的書2009年，他做了些實驗，之後出版 內容如下：163人，分別做了四種實驗每個人寫下心中的目標一半的人，對房間其他人宣告他們的目標另一半人保密然後給每人45分鐘的時間將目標一步步實現但他們可以隨時放棄結果是，保密的那些人整整45分鐘都努力著後來的訪問，他們覺得似乎還有很長一段時間才能達成目標另一半宣告的人平均33分鐘後就放棄了後來的訪問，他們覺得有種離目標又更近一步的感覺 如果這是真的那我們該怎麼做？你可以忍住那種想宣告目標的誘惑你可以拖延別人讚美你的滿足感你還要明白你的腦子會把""說的""當成""做的""如果你真的忍不住那就換種方法說讓你沒有滿足感像是：「我想參加馬拉松，」「所以我一週要練習五天，」「如果我怠惰了，就揍我。」 所以下次你想告訴別人你的目標時，你會說什麼？就是這樣，很好 (掌聲)"
