Talk	en	zh-tw
derek_sivers_how_to_start_a_movement	Ladies and gentlemen, at TED we talk a lot about leadership and how to make a movement. So let's watch a movement happen, start to finish, in under three minutes and dissect some lessons from it. First, of course you know, a leader needs the guts to stand out and be ridiculed. What he's doing is so easy to follow. Here's his first follower with a crucial role; he's going to show everyone else how to follow. Now, notice that the leader embraces him as an equal. Now it's not about the leader anymore; it's about them, plural. Now, there he is calling to his friends. Now, if you notice that the first follower is actually an underestimated form of leadership in itself. It takes guts to stand out like that. The first follower is what transforms a lone nut into a leader. (Laughter) (Applause) And here comes a second follower. Now it's not a lone nut, it's not two nuts — three is a crowd, and a crowd is news. So a movement must be public. It's important to show not just the leader, but the followers, because you find that new followers emulate the followers, not the leader. Now, here come two more people, and immediately after, three more people. Now we've got momentum. This is the tipping point. Now we've got a movement. (Laughter) So, notice that, as more people join in, it's less risky. So those that were sitting on the fence before now have no reason not to. They won't stand out, they won't be ridiculed, but they will be part of the in-crowd if they hurry. (Laughter) So, over the next minute, you'll see all of those that prefer to stick with the crowd because eventually they would be ridiculed for not joining in. And that's how you make a movement. But let's recap some lessons from this. So first, if you are the type, like the shirtless dancing guy that is standing alone, remember the importance of nurturing your first few followers as equals so it's clearly about the movement, not you. (Laughter) Okay, but we might have missed the real lesson here. The biggest lesson, if you noticed — did you catch it? — is that leadership is over-glorified. Yes, it was the shirtless guy who was first, and he'll get all the credit, but it was really the first follower that transformed the lone nut into a leader. So, as we're told that we should all be leaders, that would be really ineffective. If you really care about starting a movement, have the courage to follow and show others how to follow. And when you find a lone nut doing something great, have the guts to be the first one to stand up and join in. And what a perfect place to do that, at TED. Thanks. (Applause)	"各位先生女士們，在TED大會中我們談了許多關於領導力，和如何發起群眾運動的議題那麼讓我們來看一場群眾運動的誕生，從開始到結束，還不到三分鐘並從當中學到一些經驗 當然，首先，做為一個領導者需要膽識他要站出來並接受嘲笑不過他所做的很容易跟著做這裡出現第一個關鍵的跟隨者角色他要讓大家看到如何跟上 現在，你觀察到這位領導者以平等的態度接納他所以，現在領導者是誰已不重要而是屬於""他們""的活動接著，他號召他的朋友來參與現在如果你注意到第一個跟隨者 其實他本身就是一個被低估的領導者角色光是跟著站出來也需要膽識第一個跟隨者把一個瘋子變成了領袖(笑聲)(掌聲) 接著第二個跟隨者出現現在不是一個瘋子,也不是兩個瘋子三人成為群體,而群體就是個話題因此群眾運動必須是公眾的重點是，不能只聚焦領導者,跟隨者也很重要因為你會發現這些新的跟隨者是模仿追隨者，而不是領導者 現在又來了兩個人,之後很快又多了三個人這下子可熱鬧了，這是個引爆點群眾運動誕生了所以請注意，隨著越多人加入風險就越低那些之前在旁袖手旁觀的人群沒理由不跟上了他們不站出來也不會被嘲笑但若快點行動,他們可以成為群體中的一份子(笑聲)所以接下來的一分鐘你會發現這些人寧願跟著群體走因為最後會被嘲笑的是沒加入的人這就是群眾運動的形成 不過，再重點複習一次第一,如果你的類型是像那個打赤膊的跳舞男記得重視你的跟隨者並一視同仁群眾運動不是領導者唱獨角戲好吧,不過我們可能錯過了真正要學的 最大的功課是,如果你有注意到你會發現,領導者的地位被過度美化了沒錯,打赤膊的男子率先行動目光都在他身上但其實是第一個跟隨者把一個瘋子變成領袖因此雖然我們都被教導要成為領袖實際上這樣是行不通的 若你認真要喚起一個群眾運動拿出勇氣跟上領導者並向他人展現如何跟隨當你發現一個瘋子在做很棒的事拿出膽識,第一個跟上站出來加入他要這麼做,參與TED大會就是最好的示範 謝謝(掌聲)"
