Talk	en	zh-tw
diana_nyad_never_ever_give_up	"It's the fifth time I stand on this shore, the Cuban shore, looking out at that distant horizon, believing, again, that I'm going to make it all the way across that vast, dangerous wilderness of an ocean. Not only have I tried four times, but the greatest swimmers in the world have been trying since 1950, and it's still never been done. The team is proud of our four attempts. It's an expedition of some 30 people. Bonnie is my best friend and head handler, who somehow summons will, that last drop of will within me, when I think it's gone, after many, many hours and days out there. The shark experts are the best in the world — large predators below. The box jellyfish, the deadliest venom in all of the ocean, is in these waters, and I have come close to dying from them on a previous attempt. The conditions themselves, besides the sheer distance of over 100 miles in the open ocean — the currents and whirling eddies and the Gulf Stream itself, the most unpredictable of all of the planet Earth. And by the way — it's amusing to me that journalists and people, before these attempts, often ask me, ""Well, are you going to go with any boats or any people or anything?"" (Laughter) And I'm thinking, what are they imagining? That I'll just sort of do some celestial navigation — (Laughter) And carry a bowie knife in my mouth, and I'll hunt fish and skin them alive and eat them, and maybe drag a desalinization plant behind me for fresh water. (Laughter) Yes, I have a team. (Laughter) And the team is expert, and the team is courageous, and brimming with innovation and scientific discovery, as is true of any major expedition on the planet. And we've been on a journey. And the debate has raged, hasn't it, since the Greeks, of isn't it what it's all about? Isn't life about the journey, not really the destination? And here we've been on this journey, and the truth is, it's been thrilling. We haven't reached that other shore, and still, our sense of pride and commitment, unwavering commitment. When I turned 60, the dream was still alive from having tried this in my 20s — dreamed it and imagined it. The most famous body of water on the Earth today, I imagine, Cuba to Florida. And it was deep. It was deep in my soul. When I turned 60, it wasn't so much about the athletic accomplishment, it wasn't the ego of ""I want to be the first."" That's always there and it's undeniable. But it was deeper. It was ""how much life is there left?"" Let's face it — we're all on a one-way street, aren't we? And what are we going to do? What are we going to do as we go forward, to have no regrets looking back? And all this past year in training, I had that Teddy Roosevelt quote to paraphrase it, floating around in my brain. It says, ""You go ahead. You go ahead and sit back in your comfortable chair and you be the critic, you be the observer, while the brave one gets in the ring and engages and gets bloody and gets dirty and fails over and over and over again, but yet isn't afraid and isn't timid and lives life in a bold way."" And so of course I want to make it across. It is the goal, and I should be so shallow to say that this year, the destination was even sweeter than the journey. (Laughter) (Applause) But the journey itself was worthwhile taking. And at this point, by this summer, everybody — scientists, sports scientists, endurance experts, neurologists, my own team, Bonnie — said it's impossible. It just simply can't be done, and Bonnie said to me, ""But if you're going to take the journey, I'm going to see you through to the end of it, so I'll be there."" And now we're there. As we're looking out, kind of a surreal moment before the first stroke, standing on the rocks at Marina Hemingway, the Cuban flag is flying above, all my team is out in their boats, hands up in the air, ""We're here! We're here for you!"" Bonnie and I look at each other and say, this year, the mantra is — and I've been using it in training — Find a way. You have a dream and you have obstacles in front of you, as we all do. None of us ever get through this life without heartache, without turmoil, and if you believe and you have faith and you can get knocked down and get back up again and you believe in perseverance as a great human quality, you find your way. And Bonnie grabbed my shoulders, and she said, ""Let's find our way to Florida."" And we started, and for the next 53 hours, it was an intense, unforgettable life experience. The highs were high, the awe — I'm not a religious person, but I'll tell you, to be in the azure blue of the Gulf Stream as if, as you're breathing, you're looking down miles and miles and miles, to feel the majesty of this blue planet we live on — it's awe-inspiring. I have a playlist of about 85 songs, and especially in the middle of the night ... That night, because we use no lights — lights attract jellyfish, lights attract sharks, lights attract baitfish that attract sharks, so we go in the pitch black of the night. You've never seen black this black. You can't see the front of your hand, and the people on the boat, Bonnie and my team on the boat — they just hear the slapping of the arms, and they know where I am, because there's no visual at all. And I'm out there kind of tripping out on my little playlist. (Laughter) I've got tight rubber caps, I don't hear a thing. I've got goggles and I'm turning my head 50 times a minute, and I'm singing ... (Singing) Imagine there's no heaven (Laughter) doo doo doo doo doo It's easy if you try doo doo doo doo doo And I can sing that song a thousand times in a row. (Laughter) Now there's a talent unto itself. (Laughter) (Applause) And each time I get done with, (Singing) Oh, you may say I'm a dreamer but I'm not the only one 222. (Singing) Imagine there's no heaven (Laughter) And when I get through the end of a thousand of John Lennon's ""Imagine,"" I have swum nine hours and 45 minutes ... exactly. (Laughter) And then there are the crises. Of course there are. And the vomiting starts, the seawater — you're not well. You're wearing a jellyfish mask for the ultimate protection. It's difficult to swim in. It's causing abrasions on the inside of the mouth, but the tentacles can't get you. And the hypothermia sets in. The water's 85 degrees, and yet you're losing weight and using calories. And as you come over toward the side of the boat — not allowed to touch it, not allowed to get out, but Bonnie and her team hand me nutrition and ask me how I'm doing, am I all right. I am seeing the Taj Mahal — (Laughter) Over here. I'm in a very different state — (Laughter) And I'm thinking, ""Wow! I never thought I'd be running into the Taj Mahal out here. It's gorgeous! I mean, how long did it take them to build that? It's just ... So, uh — wooo — you know? (Laughter) We kind of have a cardinal rule that I'm never told how far it is, because we don't know how far it is. What's going to happen to you between this point and that point? What's going to happen to the weather and the currents and, God forbid, you're stung, when you don't think you could be stung in all this armor. Bonnie made a decision coming into that third morning that I was suffering, and I was hanging on by a thread. And she said, ""Come here,"" and I came close to the boat, and she said, ""Look, look out there."" And I saw light, because the day is easier than the night, and I thought we were coming into day. I saw a stream of white light along the horizon, and I said, ""It's going to be morning soon."" And she said, ""No, those are the lights of Key West."" It was 15 more hours, which for most swimmers would be a long time. (Laughter) (Applause) You have no idea how many 15-hour training swims I had done. So here we go, and I somehow, without a decision, went into no counting of strokes and no singing and no quoting Stephen Hawking on the parameters of the universe. I just went into thinking about this dream, and why and how. As I said, when I turned 60, it wasn't about that concrete ""Can you do it?"" That's the everyday machinations. That's the discipline, and it's the preparation, and there's a pride in that. But I decided to think, as I went along, about — you know, the phrase usually is, ""reaching for the stars."" And in my case, it's reaching for the horizon. And when you reach for the horizon, as I've proven, you may not get there. But what a tremendous build of character and spirit that you lay down; what a foundation you lay down in reaching for those horizons. And now, the shore is coming. And there's just a little part of me that's sad. The epic journey is going to be over. So many people come up to me now and say, ""What's next?"" (Laughter) ""We love that!"" (Laughter) ""That little tracker on the computer? When are you going to do the next one? We can't wait to follow the next one."" Well, they were just there for 53 hours, and I was there for years. And so there won't be another epic journey in the ocean. But the point is, and the point was, that every day of our lives is epic. And I'll tell you, when I walked up onto that beach, staggered up onto that beach ... I had so many times, in a very puffed-up ego way, rehearsed what I would say ... (Laughter) on the beach. When Bonnie thought the back of my throat was swelling up, she brought the medical team over to our boat to say, ""She's really beginning to have trouble breathing; another 12, 24 hours in the saltwater ..."" — the whole thing — I just thought, in my hallucinatory moment, that I heard the word ""tracheotomy."" (Laughter) Bonnie said to the doctor, ""I'm not worried about her not breathing. If she can't talk when she gets to the shore, she's going to be pissed off."" (Laughter) But the truth is, all those orations that I had practiced, just to get myself through some training swims as motivation — it wasn't like that. It was a very real moment, with that crowd, with my team. We did it. I didn't do it. We did it. And we'll never forget it. It'll always be part of us. The three things I did sort of blurt out when we got there, was first: Never, ever give up. I live it. What's the phrase from today from Socrates? Audience: To be is to do. Diana Nyad: To be is to do. So I don't stand up and say, ""Don't ever give up."" I didn't give up. There was action behind these words. The second is: You can chase your dreams at any age; you're never too old. Sixty-four; a thing no one, at any age, any gender, could ever do has done it. And there's no doubt in my mind that I am at the prime of my life today. (Applause) Yeah. (Applause) Thank you. And the third thing I said on that beach was, it looks like the most solitary endeavor in the world, and in many ways, of course, it is. And in other ways, and the most important ways, it's a team. And if you think I'm a badass, you want to meet Bonnie. (Laughter) Bonnie, where are you? Where are you? There's Bonnie Stoll. (Applause) My buddy. (Applause) The Henry David Thoreau quote goes, ""When you achieve your dreams, it's not so much what you get as who you have become in achieving them."" And yeah, I stand before you now. In the three months since that swim ended, I've sat down with Oprah, and I've been in President Obama's Oval Office; I've been invited to speak in front of esteemed groups such as yourselves; I've signed a wonderful major book contract. All of that's great, and I don't denigrate it. I'm proud of it all, but the truth is, I'm walking around tall because I am that bold, fearless person, and I will be, every day, until it's time for these days to be done. Thank you very much and enjoy the conference. Thank you. Thank you! (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you. (Applause) Find a way! (Applause)"	"這是我第五次站在這個海岸,古巴海岸邊,眺望著那遙遠的地平線,又一次地相信我將會成功地跨過那一望無際,波濤洶湧的海洋。不是只有我嘗試了四次,世界上其他偉大的游泳健將自從1950年以來就開始嘗試了,卻沒有人成功過。我們對於前四次所付出的努力感到十分驕傲。這探險隊大概有30人。邦妮是我最要好的朋友, 同時也是我的總教練。她是一個能夠喚醒我意志力的人。當我在深海中度過無數個日夜,瀕臨放棄的瞬間, 她能喚起我僅存的意志力。我們有世界頂端的鯊魚專家...潛藏深海的大型狩獵者。有箱型水母,海洋中最致命的毒液,也在這水裡。我在前一次的探險差一點因為牠們而喪失了性命。這些情況,除了要在廣闊的海洋中游行超過100哩,海流、漩渦以及世界上最難預測的墨西哥灣暖流話說到這裡, 我都被逗笑了,在這幾次嘗試前,記者和其他人常常問我,嗯...你會攜帶任何船、任何人或任何東西嗎?我心想, 他們到底在幻想些什麼啊?幻想我會觀測天體來判斷座標,嘴裡咬著一把長獵刀,然後捕魚, 活生生地剝了牠們的皮再吃掉。或許為了獲取淨水,背後還揹著一台海水淨化設備?（笑聲）是的, 我有帶著一個團隊。（笑聲）裡面個個都是專家, 個個成員都英勇,也都具有創新思維和科學探索的能力,就和任何大型遠征隊一樣。我們已經踏上了旅途。大家不是都在激烈爭論生命的意義嗎?自古以來,又何嘗不是這麼一回事?生命追求的不就是歷經的過程,而不是抵達的終點?我們已經踏上旅途了。說實在的, 這一路上十分刺激。我們還沒登上另一端的岸上,但我們的驕傲依舊承諾不移當我60歲時, 我持續懷著這個夢想這個從我20幾歲開始的夢想不斷嘗試, 不斷幻想至今世上最著名的水域我想, 應該是古巴到佛羅里達這塊。它非常深, 彷彿直達靈魂深處。我在60歲時,並不是所謂的運動生涯成就,或者""我想成為第一名""的自負心態,無可否認地,那個自我一直都在但它更深, 是關於生命還剩下多少時間？我們承認吧, 我們都在單行道上,不是嗎？那我們應該怎麼做呢？我們應該做些什麼才能在前進的路上回頭看時沒有遺憾？過去這一年訓練的時候,希歐多爾•羅斯福的一句話一直在我的腦海回蕩,大致是：”你儘管,你儘管坐在你那舒服的椅子上,你做個評論家,你做個觀察員,同時那個勇敢的人走上拳擊台開始比賽,血流了下來,有點髒,他倒了下去,一次又一次,但是他不害怕不膽怯,用一種勇敢的方式去生活。”所以當然我想要跨越這一灣水。這是目標,我也坦率地跟大家說今年,目的地嘗到的滋味比旅途更甜（笑聲）（掌聲）但旅途本身是值得的。這個時候,今年夏天,每個人——科學家、 運動科學家、耐力專家、神經專家,我自己的團隊,邦妮 ——都說這是不可能的。這是肯定做不到的,這時邦妮對我說,""但是如果你真的要踏上這個旅途,我會從頭到尾看著你,所以我會在的。“而我們就去了。啟程之前,我們一眼望去,感覺一切都是那麼地不真實,在劃出去的前一刻我們站在海明威碼頭的岩石上,古巴旗幟在上空飄揚,我的團隊在他們的船上,手高高舉起並說著：“我們在這裡, 我們會為你加油。”邦妮和我相互對望了一眼,我們說：今年,我們的口頭禪是——我在訓練的時候也一直用它——找到出路。你有一個夢想,你的前方有障礙,我們都一樣。沒有一個人可以不經歷任何心痛、任何動盪地走完人生,如果你相信,如果你有任何信仰,你可以被打倒再重新站起來,你相信毅力是人類最偉大的優點,你會找到你的出路, 邦妮抓住我的肩膀,她說：“讓我們找到去佛羅里達的路吧。”接著我們出發了,接下來的53個小時給我們帶來了刺激的、令人難忘的人生經歷。高處很高,還有敬畏,我不是一個信教的人,但是我要告訴你的是,身處在墨西哥灣流的湛藍之中,你一邊呼吸,一邊看著前方無盡的一片,感受到我們生活在的這個藍色星球的雄偉,真的讓人歎為觀止。我有一個大概85首歌的播放清單,特別是在半夜的時候,那個晚上,因為我們沒有燈光——燈光會引來水母、鯊魚,燈光會引來那些鯊魚喜歡的餌料魚,所以我們就在一片漆黑的黑夜中行進。你從來沒有見過這種黑暗。你看不見自己眼前的手,和船上的人,邦妮的我的團隊,他們透過聽到手臂拍打的聲音,才知道我在哪裡,因為用肉眼是看不見的。而我就在那兒沉浸在我的音樂裡（笑聲）我戴著一個很緊的橡膠帽,所以我什麼也聽不見。我戴著泳鏡,一分鐘內轉50次頭而我在唱,♪想像沒有天堂♪♪doo doo doo doo doo♪♪這不難,如果你嘗試 ♪♪doo doo doo doo doo♪這個歌我可以連續唱上一千遍。（笑聲）我覺得這本身也是一種才能。（笑聲）（掌聲）每一次到結尾的時候,♪ 你可能說我是一個夢想家,但我不是唯一的 ♪222。♪想像沒有天堂♪當我唱完一千遍的時候,約翰藍儂的《想像》我已經游了9個小時45分鐘,絲毫不差。當然也有危機出現時候,當然有。我開始嘔吐,還有海水,你感覺不舒服,你戴著高效保護的水母面具。戴著它更難游泳導致你嘴巴裡面出現磨損,可是你不會再被水母觸角螫到接著身體出現低溫。水溫是85華氏度（約29攝氏度）,你的體重開始減輕和消耗熱量,當你慢慢靠近船隻邊緣,不能觸碰,不能放棄,但是邦妮和團隊遞給我營養物質,並問我怎麼樣,是否一切都好,而我卻看到了泰姬陵。我已經進入了一個非常不同的境界,我在想,哇,我從來沒有想過我會在這裡看到泰姬陵。簡直太美了。這,他們得用了多長時間才造出來啊？簡直,簡直——噢唔（笑聲）我們有一個基本規則,就是沒有人會告訴我已經遊了多遠,因為我們不知道。從這裡到那裡會發生什麼？從這裡到那裡會發生什麼？天氣、洋流會怎麼樣？還有,上帝保佑,當你以為在這身裝置下不會很安全,可是你就是被螫了,邦妮做了一個決定,在第三個早上那時我很痛苦,我的生命懸在一線之間,她說：""過來,""我游到船邊,她說,""你看,你看那邊,""我看到了燈光,因為白天要比晚上好,我以為我們已經進入白天了,我看到一束白光,沿著地平線我說：”白天很快就到了。“她說：""不,那是西礁島的燈光。""還需要15個小時,這對大部分游泳的人都是一段很長的時間。（笑聲）（掌聲）你不知道我經歷過多少15個小時的游泳訓練。所以我們又繼續往前,而我不知道怎麼的,沒有任何決定,進入了不數劃了多少下,不唱歌,不引用斯蒂芬•霍金及其宇宙參數,我只是開始想我的這個夢想,為什麼, 如何實現。我說過,我60歲的時候,它不再是關於那個具體的“你是否可以做到”,那是每天的策劃,那是自我紀律,事前準備,而這其中有自豪。但是隨著前進,我決定開始思考通常人們是說,追逐星星,而我的情況,則是追逐地平線。而當你到達地平線的時候,當然你也可能到達不了,但是你建立了多麼驚人的人類特質和精神在你追逐地平線的時候,你搭下了堅實的地基。現在慢慢接近海岸了,我內心有一小部分開始難過。這個史詩般的旅途就要結束了。現在很多人走上前問我,“""接下來你會做什麼？我們好激動！那個電腦上的小跟蹤器？你什麼時候會進行下一次冒險？我們迫不及待地想看你的下一次冒險。""他們只花了53個小時在那裡,而我花了數年的時間。所以不會再有這樣的海上旅途了。但是重點是,我們生活的每一天都是壯麗的,我要告訴你,當我走上那片海灘的時候,踉蹌著走上那片海灘,我曾經很多次自命不凡地想像過我會在海灘上說什麼。當邦妮以為我的喉部腫了,她把醫療團隊帶到了我們的船上,告訴他們我呼吸有困難.在鹽水裡待了12、14個小時後,整件事情,我以為在我幻想著的時候,我到了氣管切開術。（笑聲）邦妮對醫生說：“我不擔心她不能呼吸,如果她到達海岸的時候不能說話,她會火冒三丈的。”（笑聲）但事實是,那些我練習了無數次的演說,只為了激勵自己訓練的演說,其實不是那樣的。那是真實的一刻,有人群,有我的團隊。我們做到了,不是我一個人,我們做到了。我們永遠不會忘記, 這會永遠是我們的一部分。當我們到達的時候,我脫口而出的說了三件事,第一就是：""永遠、永遠不要放棄。""我經歷過了。蘇格拉底的那句話今天怎麼說來著？想成為什麼就要行動所以我是只站起來說永遠不要放棄。我沒有放棄,在這些話語背後是有行動的。第二,“你可以在任何年紀追求你的夢想,你永遠不會太老。”64歲,沒有人在這個年紀,不管男女,可以做,做到了,我沒有絲毫懷疑今天我正處於我生命的頂峰。（掌聲）是的。謝謝。我在那個海灘上說的第三個東西是：""它看起來像世界上最孤獨的努力,在許多方面,確實如此。但在其他方面,最重要的方面,這是一個團隊,如果你認為我很厲害,你應該見見邦妮。""（笑聲）邦妮,你在哪裡？你在哪裡？邦妮•斯托爾在那兒。（掌聲）我的夥伴。亨利•大衛•梭羅有句名言,當你實現你的夢想的時候,關鍵並不是你得到了什麼,而是在最求的過程中你變成了什麼樣的人。是的,現在我站在你們面前,那場游泳結束已經三個月了,我和奧普拉談過,我去過奧巴馬總統的橢圓形辦公室。我被受邀給像你們這樣受人尊敬的人群演講。我簽了一個出書的合同。這些都很好,我不會貶低它。我很自豪這一切,但事實是,我可以挺起腰杆走路,因為我是那勇敢、無畏的人,而我接下來每一天也都會是,直到再無時間可剩。謝謝大家,享受會議！謝謝。謝謝。（掌聲）謝謝。謝謝。謝謝。找出你的路 ！（掌聲）"
