Talk	en	zh-tw
don_norman_on_design_and_emotion	"The new me is beauty. (Laughter) Yeah, people used to say, ""Norman's OK, but if you followed what he said, everything would be usable but it would be ugly."" Well, I didn't have that in mind, so ... This is neat. Thank you for setting up my display. I mean, it's just wonderful. And I haven't the slightest idea of what it does or what it's good for, but I want it. And that's my new life. My new life is trying to understand what beauty is about, and ""pretty,"" and ""emotions."" The new me is all about making things kind of neat and fun. And so this is a Philippe Starck juicer, produced by Alessi. It's just neat; it's fun. It's so much fun I have it in my house — but I have it in the entryway, I don't use it to make juice. (Laughter) In fact, I bought the gold-plated special edition and it comes with a little slip of paper that says, ""Don't use this juicer to make juice."" The acid will ruin the gold plating. (Laughter) So actually, I took a carton of orange juice and I poured it in the glass to take this picture. (Laughter) Beneath it is a wonderful knife. It's a Global cutting knife made in Japan. First of all, look at the shape — it's just wonderful to look at. Second of all, it's really beautifully balanced: it holds well, it feels well. And third of all, it's so sharp, it just cuts. It's a delight to use. And so it's got everything, right? It's beautiful and it's functional. And I can tell you stories about it, which makes it reflective, and so you'll see I have a theory of emotion. And those are the three components. Hiroshi Ishii and his group at the MIT Media Lab took a ping-pong table and placed a projector above it, and on the ping-pong table they projected an image of water with fish swimming in it. And as you play ping-pong, whenever the ball hits part of the table, the ripples spread out and the fish run away. But of course, then the ball hits the other side, the ripples hit the — poor fish, they can't find any peace and quiet. (Laughter) Is that a good way to play ping-pong? No. But is it fun? Yeah! Yeah. Or look at Google. If you type in, oh say, ""emotion and design,"" you get 10 pages of results. So Google just took their logo and they spread it out. Instead of saying, ""You got 73,000 results. This is one through 20. Next,"" they just give you as many o's as there are pages. It's really simple and subtle. I bet a lot of you have seen it and never noticed it. That's the subconscious mind that sort of notices it — it probably is kind of pleasant and you didn't know why. And it's just clever. And of course, what's especially good is, if you type ""design and emotion,"" the first response out of those 10 pages is my website. (Laughter) Now, the weird thing is Google lies, because if I type ""design and emotion,"" it says, ""You don't need the 'and.' We do it anyway."" So, OK. So I type ""design emotion"" and my website wasn't first again. It was third. Oh well, different story. There was this wonderful review in The New York Times about the MINI Cooper automobile. It said, ""You know, this is a car that has lots of faults. Buy it anyway. It's so much fun to drive."" And if you look at the inside of the car — I mean, I loved it, I wanted to see it, I rented it, this is me taking a picture while my son is driving — and the inside of the car, the whole design is fun. It's round, it's neat. The controls work wonderfully. So that's my new life; it's all about fun. I really have the feeling that pleasant things work better, and that never made any sense to me until I finally figured out — look ... I'm going to put a plank on the ground. So, imagine I have a plank about two feet wide and 30 feet long and I'm going to walk on it, and you see I can walk on it without looking, I can go back and forth and I can jump up and down. No problem. Now I'm going to put the plank 300 feet in the air — and I'm not going to go near it, thank you. Intense fear paralyzes you. It actually affects the way the brain works. So, Paul Saffo, before his talk said that he didn't really have it down until just a few days or hours before the talk, and that anxiety was really helpful in causing him to focus. That's what fear and anxiety does; it causes you to be — what's called depth-first processing — to focus, not be distracted. And I couldn't force myself across that. Now some people can — circus workers, steel workers. But it really changes the way you think. And then, a psychologist, Alice Isen, did this wonderful experiment. She brought students in to solve problems. So, she'd bring people into the room, and there'd be a string hanging down here and a string hanging down here. It was an empty room, except for a table with a bunch of crap on it — some papers and scissors and stuff. And she'd bring them in, and she'd say, ""This is an IQ test and it determines how well you do in life. Would you tie those two strings together?"" So they'd take one string and they'd pull it over here and they couldn't reach the other string. Still can't reach it. And, basically, none of them could solve it. You bring in a second group of people, and you say, ""Oh, before we start, I got this box of candy, and I don't eat candy. Would you like the box of candy?"" And turns out they liked it, and it made them happy — not very happy, but a little bit of happy. And guess what — they solved the problem. And it turns out that when you're anxious you squirt neural transmitters in the brain, which focuses you makes you depth-first. And when you're happy — what we call positive valence — you squirt dopamine into the prefrontal lobes, which makes you a breadth-first problem solver: you're more susceptible to interruption; you do out-of-the-box thinking. That's what brainstorming is about, right? With brainstorming we make you happy, we play games, and we say, ""No criticism,"" and you get all these weird, neat ideas. But in fact, if that's how you always were you'd never get any work done because you'd be working along and say, ""Oh, I got a new way of doing it."" So to get work done, you've got to set a deadline, right? You've got be anxious. The brain works differently if you're happy. Things work better because you're more creative. You get a little problem, you say, ""Ah, I'll figure it out."" No big deal. There's something I call the visceral level of processing, and there will be visceral-level design. Biology — we have co-adapted through biology to like bright colors. That's especially good that mammals and primates like fruits and bright plants, because you eat the fruit and you thereby spread the seed. There's an amazing amount of stuff that's built into the brain. We dislike bitter tastes, we dislike loud sounds, we dislike hot temperatures, cold temperatures. We dislike scolding voices. We dislike frowning faces; we like symmetrical faces, etc., etc. So that's the visceral level. In design, you can express visceral in lots of ways, like the choice of type fonts and the red for hot, exciting. Or the 1963 Jaguar: It's actually a crummy car, falls apart all the time, but the owners love it. And it's beautiful — it's in the Museum of Modern Art. A water bottle: You buy it because of the bottle, not because of the water. And when people are finished, they don't throw it away. They keep it for — you know, it's like the old wine bottles, you keep it for decoration or maybe fill it with water again, which proves it's not the water. It's all about the visceral experience. The middle level of processing is the behavioral level and that's actually where most of our stuff gets done. Visceral is subconscious, you're unaware of it. Behavioral is subconscious, you're unaware of it. Almost everything we do is subconscious. I'm walking around the stage — I'm not attending to the control of my legs. I'm doing a lot; most of my talk is subconscious; it has been rehearsed and thought about a lot. Most of what we do is subconscious. Automatic behavior — skilled behavior — is subconscious, controlled by the behavioral side. And behavioral design is all about feeling in control, which includes usability, understanding — but also the feel and heft. That's why the Global knives are so neat. They're so nicely balanced, so sharp, that you really feel you're in control of the cutting. Or, just driving a high-performance sports car over a demanding curb — again, feeling that you are in complete control of the environment. Or the sensual feeling. This is a Kohler shower, a waterfall shower, and actually, all those knobs beneath are also showerheads. It will squirt you all around and you can stay in that shower for hours — and not waste water, by the way, because it recirculates the same dirty water. (Laughter) Or this — this is a really neat teapot I found at high tea at The Four Seasons Hotel in Chicago. It's a Ronnefeldt tilting teapot. That's kind of what the teapot looks like but the way you use it is you lay it on its back, and you put tea in, and then you fill it with water. The water then seeps over the tea. And the tea is sitting in this stuff to the right — the tea is to the right of this line. There's a little ledge inside, so the tea is sitting there and the water is filling it up like that. And when the tea is ready, or almost ready, you tilt it. And that means the tea is partially covered while it completes the brewing. And when it's finished, you put it vertically, and now the tea is — you remember — above this line and the water only comes to here — and so it keeps the tea out. On top of that, it communicates, which is what emotion does. Emotion is all about acting; emotion is really about acting. It's being safe in the world. Cognition is about understanding the world, emotion is about interpreting it — saying good, bad, safe, dangerous, and getting us ready to act, which is why the muscles tense or relax. And that's why we can tell the emotion of somebody else — because their muscles are acting, subconsciously, except that we've evolved to make the facial muscles really rich with emotion. Well, this has emotions if you like, because it signals the waiter that, ""Hey, I'm finished. See — upright."" And the waiter can come by and say, ""Would you like more water?"" It's kind of neat. What a wonderful design. And the third level is reflective, which is, if you like the superego, it's a little part of the brain that has no control over what you do, no control over the — doesn't see the senses, doesn't control the muscles. It looks over what's going on. It's that little voice in your head that's watching and saying, ""That's good. That's bad."" Or, ""Why are you doing that? I don't understand."" It's that little voice in your head that's the seat of consciousness. Here's a great reflective product. Owners of the Hummer have said, ""You know I've owned many cars in my life — all sorts of exotic cars, but never have I had a car that attracted so much attention."" It's about attention. It's about their image, not about the car. If you want a more positive model — this is the GM car. And the reason you might buy it now is because you care about the environment. And you'll buy it to protect the environment, even though the first few cars are going to be really expensive and not perfected. But that's reflective design as well. Or an expensive watch, so you can impress people — ""Oh gee, I didn't know you had that watch."" As opposed to this one, which is a pure behavioral watch, which probably keeps better time than the $13,000 watch I just showed you. But it's ugly. This is a clear Don Norman watch. And what's neat is sometimes you pit one emotion against the other, the visceral fear of falling against the reflective state saying, ""It's OK. It's OK. It's safe. It's safe."" If that amusement park were rusty and falling apart, you'd never go on the ride. So, it's pitting one against the other. The other neat thing ... (Laughter) So Jake Cress is this furniture maker, and he makes this unbelievable set of furniture. And this is his chair with claw, and the poor little chair has lost its ball and it's trying to get it back before anybody notices. And what's so neat about it is how you accept that story. And that's what's nice about emotion. So that's the new me. I'm only saying positive things from now on. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"現在的我關心的是美（笑聲）人們過去會說：諾曼的出發點是好的但假如你按照他說的去做，你可以做出管用的東西但一定是很醜的但我事實上並無那個意思，看 這東西挺精緻的感謝主持人把它擺在這兒，供我作道具用我想說 這東西太美了我完全想不出它是拿來幹嘛的，它的實際用途有哪些但是我就是想要它這就是我的新人生我的新人生就是在探索何為美何為可愛，以及與此相關的情感我的新生活核心就是製造漂亮、好玩的東西 這個是菲利普·斯塔克果汁機，由 Alessi 製作它實在是太好玩了，我家裡就有一台但我把它擺在過道上，而不是用來做果汁（笑聲）說實話，我買的是外表鍍金的那一款一打開包裝，我看到一張紙條上面寫着：不要用這機器來做果汁因為酸會腐蝕外表的金子（笑聲）所以，我把一盒果汁倒在玻璃杯裡，而後才拍出這張照片（笑聲） 大家留心看，會發現底下那裡有一把刀那是一把日本生產的萬能小刀先看看它的形狀，那是多麼美其次，這把刀設計得相當勻稱拿在手上感覺棒極了再有，它的刀刃非常鋒利，割東西非常方便用起來讓人感覺非常舒心這是不是說它是十全十美呢它的確很美也很實用我還能跟你講幾個故事擴展一下主題大家知道，我有一套關於情緒的理論這些就是理論的三大塊 Hiroshi Ishii 和他的同事在 MIT 媒體實驗室他們弄來一張乒乓球桌，在上面放一台投影機投影機在乒乓球桌上投射一個水面上面有魚兒在游動你在那兒打乒乓球，只要球一觸到桌面就會有波紋彈出來，魚兒也隨之游到別的地方而後球又跳到另外一個地方再次激起水波，看看那魚兒啊，也真可憐的（笑聲）這是不是玩乒乓球的好辦法？不是。但好不好玩？肯定好玩！ 再看看 Google假如你搜 “情感 設計”你會得到十頁搜索結果而 Google 則非常巧妙地展開自己的標誌,它不直接告訴你: ""有 73,000 個搜索結果這是頭 20 個。下一頁""它只讓你看到有很多個 “O”，而每一個 O 都代表了一頁非常簡單又非常細膩的一個設計我想你們很多人都看過，但是沒有注意到這就是潛意識潛意識注意到這東西，也隱約感到快樂但是你不知是為什麼真是妙不可言而最有趣的則是你搜 “設計與情感” 的時候我的網站是排在搜索結果的第一位的（笑聲）可是 Google 也會騙人因為假如我搜 “設計與情感”Google 就會說：你不需打 “與”，我們會加上去的好那我就打 “設計 情感”這時我的網站不再是排在結果的第一位了而是落到了第三位好，換另一個故事 《紐約時報》有一次刊登了一則評論是關於迷你 Cooper 汽車的上面寫到：這是一輛充滿缺陷的汽車你可以放心買因為開這車感覺棒極了假如你看看車的內部我當時很想看，就租了一輛這是我兒子駕車時，我拍下的照片車子內部的設計，帶給人的就是快感圓圓的，非常細緻非常好控制這就是我的新生活，是關於好玩的新生活 我真的認為，好玩的東西總是走在一起的但我一直都不能理解為什麼直到... 好我要往地板上放一塊木板設想一下，我有一塊 2 呎寬 30 呎長的木板我可以在木板上踱步而不需驚慌我可以往前、往後，可以跳上、跳下沒有任何問題而假如我要把這木板放在 300 呎高的地方我就不會走近它了強烈的畏懼使人麻木它會改變大腦工作的模式 Paul Saffo 剛才結束演講時說：他在演講開始前一直很緊張直到最後幾天，甚至最後幾個小時才冷靜下來但那種緊張而生的焦慮，卻可以幫他集中精神畏懼與焦慮的作用也是如此也就是通常說的深度為先的處理原則它們能夠使人集中精神，而不分散注意力但我發現自己做不到有些人可以做到，如馬戲團演員、鋼鐵工人這兩種情緒確實可以改變你想問題的方式 一位叫 Alice Isen 的心理學家做了一個很有趣的實驗她找到幾個學生把他們帶到房間房間的這裡有根繩子那裡也有根繩子那是一個空房間，只有一張桌子，桌上有些雜物一些紙、剪刀、和其他東西她把學生帶到房間裡她說這是一個 IQ 測試，測試你在實際生活中的應變能力你們能把這兩根繩子綁起來嗎學生一手拿這頭的繩子，然後伸另一只手去勾另一根繩子他們勾不着實在是勾不着結果沒有人能完成任務那位心理學家又叫來另一群學生跟他們說：我們開始之前我想告訴大家，這裡有一盒糖，可是我不吃糖你們吃不吃？學生很喜歡吃，吃得很開心也許不算很開心，但讓他們感覺心情好一點而後他們就解決問題了 當你處於焦慮狀態的時候大腦裡的神經交換會加速，這樣你更容易集中精力讓你沉浸在那個思考的氛圍裡當你感到快樂的時候就會把更多的多巴胺輸送到大腦前額這時你就轉入寬度為先的思考你更容易被外界干擾，並且你在進行框外思考這不就是腦力激盪的本質嗎？每次腦力激盪，你都感覺快樂，你會玩遊戲沒有人指責你的想法於是各種古怪的想法都出來了但假如你一直都是這樣子，你什麼事情也做不了因為你會工作到一半時說: “啊，我可以用新辦法來做呢!”因此，要想做好工作，就需要有時限，對不對？你必須得有焦慮感不同時候，人的大腦的工作方式不一樣當你高興的時候，你會變得更有創意遇到問題，你就會想：我會找辦法解決它沒什麼大不了的 一種是知覺層面的信息處理看看生物，漫長演化的結果，我們喜歡鮮艷的顏色哺乳動物和靈長類動物喜歡水果喜歡鮮艷的植物，你吃掉水果你也幫忙傳播了種子人的大腦是被進化塑造的我們不喜歡苦味，不喜歡噪音不喜歡高熱或寒冷不喜歡責備的聲音，不喜歡皺眉的臉我們喜歡對稱的臉...這些都是本能層面的情感在設計上，你可以通過不同方式表達這樣的情感比如字體的選擇、顏色的選擇看看這款 1963 年的獵豹汽車那是很老的一款車，經常壞但是車主喜歡它很美，它就被收藏在紐約現代藝術博物館這是一個水瓶你買它是因為瓶子很別緻，而不是裡面的水人們喝完裡面的水，不會把瓶子扔掉他們把瓶子留下來，當裝飾用途或者再次裝上水，這表明不是水的魅力這都是本能上的體驗 第二層是行為層面我們生活中絕大多數的東西都是這樣產生的知覺認識是潛意識的，你根本不知道它發生了行為是潛意識的，你感覺不到它我們所做的幾乎所有事都是潛意識的在舞台上走，我並沒有費心去指揮我的腳我說話大多數時候也是潛意識的我之前做過很多準備，想了很多我們做的大多數東西是潛意識的自動化的行為、因為熟練而做的事情這些都是由行為控制的行為設計就是讓使用者感到一切在掌控之中包括可用性、理解還有質感與重量 萬能小刀設計得那麼精緻非常勻稱、鋒利你感覺一切控制在自己的掌中或者是開着一輛性能非常好的汽車越過一個大檻你會感覺一切盡在自己的掌控之中或者是一種感官上的情緒這是一個科勒淋浴頭，一個瀑布效果的淋浴頭下面這些小孔也是一個個小小的噴頭它還能往任意方向射水你就可以一連幾個小時站在那裡淋浴並且不會浪費水它會讓污水循環利用（笑聲） 還有這個，這是非常精緻的一個茶壺我在芝加哥四季酒店買到的它是一款羅納福特斜體茶壺表面看跟普通茶壺沒有區別但是，要用的時候，你要將它躺放在桌面然後把茶葉放進去罐上水水會把茶浸透茶葉放在茶壺的右手邊就是在這條線的右手邊裡面有一條橫擋，茶就在這個地方水慢慢的浸透茶身當茶已弄好或將要好時，你就把茶壺斜著放這樣子茶就不會全部被覆蓋而同時可以繼續溫一旦茶好了，你就把茶壺放正大家應該記得，茶是在這個位置的而水只會跑到這個地方並且把茶隔離出來除此而外，茶壺本身也在進行一種交流這也是情感的本義 情感表現在行為上就是那種安全的感覺認知的意義在於理解世界，而情感則試圖解釋這個世界善良與邪惡，安全與危險使我們有了判斷才去行動，肌肉的活動也與此相關我們可以分辨出其他人的情感因為我們看得到他們肌肉不經意的活動而我們的面部表情特別擅長於傳情達意這個茶壺也是有情感的它會向服務員發出信號: “看，茶弄好了。你看我站起來了“這時服務員會過來問: “是不是需要多一點水”這一點真的很巧妙，實在是一個不錯的設計 第三個層面的就是反思性的就是指佛洛伊德所言的超我那是大腦的一部分，它無法控制你的行為無法控制你的感官也無法控制你的肌肉它只會充當一個旁觀者它就是你大腦裡的那個小小的聲音它看到什麼都說：“這東西不錯”，“這東西不好”或者是 “為什麼你這麼做？我看不懂”那就是意識之所在 這是一個反思性的產品悍馬車的主人曾經說，“我一生擁有許多汽車”包括各種異國的轎車但是，從來沒有一輛車使我如此傾注心思這關乎他們的形象而不是汽車本身即使你要一個更積極的例子這是一輛通用汽車公司的汽車假如你現在決定買這輛車，唯一的解釋是你關心環保選擇買，也是環保的一個努力哪怕最初幾輛會是天價並且沒有完整的保修但這就是反思性設計的體現或者是一款昂貴的手表，你可以向朋友炫耀他們會說，“哎唷，怎麼我不知道你有個手表呢”相反地這是一款純功能的電子表它記錄時間也許比剛才那個還要準但是它很醜這就是一款 Don Norman 手表 當你用一種情感去制衡另一種情感的時候 就顯得更加有趣比如害怕摔倒你會得到暗示說: “這是安全的，你儘管放心”假如遊樂園的設備都是生鏽的、殘破的，相信你不會去那裡玩所以說，是兩相權衡的結果還有更妙的東西（笑聲）Jack Cress 是一位家具工匠他製作出了這套讓人驚嘆不已的家具這是帶爪子的椅子它失去了一個球正想趁別人不注意把球檢回來而最奇妙的一點就是，你居然相信這個解釋了這就是情感帶給人的快樂 這就是一個新的我從現在開始，我只會說事物的好話（笑聲）（掌聲）"
