Talk	en	zh-tw
don_tapscott_four_principles_for_the_open_world_1	"Openness. It's a word that denotes opportunity and possibilities. Open-ended, open hearth, open source, open door policy, open bar. (Laughter) And everywhere the world is opening up, and it's a good thing. Why is this happening? The technology revolution is opening the world. Yesterday's Internet was a platform for the presentation of content. The Internet of today is a platform for computation. The Internet is becoming a giant global computer, and every time you go on it, you upload a video, you do a Google search, you remix something, you're programming this big global computer that we all share. Humanity is building a machine, and this enables us to collaborate in new ways. Collaboration can occur on an astronomical basis. Now a new generation is opening up the world as well. I started studying kids about 15 years ago, — so actually 20 years ago now — and I noticed how my own children were effortlessly able to use all this sophisticated technology, and at first I thought, ""My children are prodigies!"" (Laughter) But then I noticed all their friends were like them, so that was a bad theory. So I've started working with a few hundred kids, and I came to the conclusion that this is the first generation to come of age in the digital age, to be bathed in bits. I call them the Net Generation. I said, these kids are different. They have no fear of technology, because it's not there. It's like the air. It's sort of like, I have no fear of a refrigerator. And — (Laughter) And there's no more powerful force to change every institution than the first generation of digital natives. I'm a digital immigrant. I had to learn the language. The global economic crisis is opening up the world as well. Our opaque institutions from the Industrial Age, everything from old models of the corporation, government, media, Wall Street, are in various stages of being stalled or frozen or in atrophy or even failing, and this is now creating a burning platform in the world. I mean, think about Wall Street. The core modus operandi of Wall Street almost brought down global capitalism. Now, you know the idea of a burning platform, that you're somewhere where the costs of staying where you are become greater than the costs of moving to something different, perhaps something radically different. And we need to change and open up all of our institutions. So this technology push, a demographic kick from a new generation and a demand pull from a new economic global environment is causing the world to open up. Now, I think, in fact, we're at a turning point in human history, where we can finally now rebuild many of the institutions of the Industrial Age around a new set of principles. Now, what is openness? Well, as it turns out, openness has a number of different meanings, and for each there's a corresponding principle for the transformation of civilization. The first is collaboration. Now, this is openness in the sense of the boundaries of organizations becoming more porous and fluid and open. The guy in the picture here, I'll tell you his story. His name is Rob McEwen. I'd like to say, ""I have this think tank, we scour the world for amazing case studies."" The reason I know this story is because he's my neighbor. (Laughter) He actually moved across the street from us, and he held a cocktail party to meet the neighbors, and he says, ""You're Don Tapscott. I've read some of your books."" I said, ""Great. What do you do?"" And he says, ""Well I used to be a banker and now I'm a gold miner."" And he tells me this amazing story. He takes over this gold mine, and his geologists can't tell him where the gold is. He gives them more money for geological data, they come back, they can't tell him where to go into production. After a few years, he's so frustrated he's ready to give up, but he has an epiphany one day. He wonders, ""If my geologists don't know where the gold is, maybe somebody else does."" So he does a ""radical"" thing. He takes his geological data, he publishes it and he holds a contest on the Internet called the Goldcorp Challenge. It's basically half a million dollars in prize money for anybody who can tell me, do I have any gold, and if so, where is it? (Laughter) He gets submissions from all around the world. They use techniques that he's never heard of, and for his half a million dollars in prize money, Rob McEwen finds 3.4 billion dollars worth of gold. The market value of his company goes from 90 million to 10 billion dollars, and I can tell you, because he's my neighbor, he's a happy camper. (Laughter) You know, conventional wisdom says talent is inside, right? Your most precious asset goes out the elevator every night. He viewed talent differently. He wondered, who are their peers? He should have fired his geology department, but he didn't. You know, some of the best submissions didn't come from geologists. They came from computer scientists, engineers. The winner was a computer graphics company that built a three dimensional model of the mine where you can helicopter underground and see where the gold is. He helped us understand that social media's becoming social production. It's not about hooking up online. This is a new means of production in the making. And this Ideagora that he created, an open market, agora, for uniquely qualified minds, was part of a change, a profound change in the deep structure and architecture of our organizations, and how we sort of orchestrate capability to innovate, to create goods and services, to engage with the rest of the world, in terms of government, how we create public value. Openness is about collaboration. Now secondly, openness is about transparency. This is different. Here, we're talking about the communication of pertinent information to stakeholders of organizations: employees, customers, business partners, shareholders, and so on. And everywhere, our institutions are becoming naked. People are all bent out of shape about WikiLeaks, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. You see, people at their fingertips now, everybody, not just Julian Assange, have these powerful tools for finding out what's going on, scrutinizing, informing others, and even organizing collective responses. Institutions are becoming naked, and if you're going to be naked, well, there's some corollaries that flow from that. I mean, one is, fitness is no longer optional. (Laughter) You know? Or if you're going to be naked, you'd better get buff. Now, by buff I mean, you need to have good value, because value is evidenced like never before. You say you have good products. They'd better be good. But you also need to have values. You need to have integrity as part of your bones and your DNA as an organization, because if you don't, you'll be unable to build trust, and trust is a sine qua non of this new network world. So this is good. It's not bad. Sunlight is the best disinfectant. And we need a lot of sunlight in this troubled world. Now, the third meaning and corresponding principle of openness is about sharing. Now this is different than transparency. Transparency is about the communication of information. Sharing is about giving up assets, intellectual property. And there are all kinds of famous stories about this. IBM gave away 400 million dollars of software to the Linux movement, and that gave them a multi-billion dollar payoff. Now, conventional wisdom says, ""Well, hey, our intellectual property belongs to us, and if someone tries to infringe it, we're going to get out our lawyers and we're going to sue them."" Well, it didn't work so well for the record labels, did it? I mean, they took — They had a technology disruption, and rather than taking a business model innovation to correspond to that, they took and sought a legal solution and the industry that brought you Elvis and the Beatles is now suing children and is in danger of collapse. So we need to think differently about intellectual property. I'll give you an example. The pharmaceutical industry is in deep trouble. First of all, there aren't a lot of big inventions in the pipeline, and this is a big problem for human health, and the pharmaceutical industry has got a bigger problem, that they're about to fall off something called the patent cliff. Do you know about this? They're going to lose 20 to 35 percent of their revenue in the next 12 months. And what are you going to do, like, cut back on paper clips or something? No. We need to reinvent the whole model of scientific research. The pharmaceutical industry needs to place assets in a commons. They need to start sharing precompetitive research. They need to start sharing clinical trial data, and in doing so, create a rising tide that could lift all boats, not just for the industry but for humanity. Now, the fourth meaning of openness, and corresponding principle, is about empowerment. And I'm not talking about the motherhood sense here. Knowledge and intelligence is power, and as it becomes more distributed, there's a concomitant distribution and decentralization and disaggregation of power that's underway in the world today. The open world is bringing freedom. Now, take the Arab Spring. The debate about the role of social media and social change has been settled. You know, one word: Tunisia. And then it ended up having a whole bunch of other words too. But in the Tunisian revolution, the new media didn't cause the revolution; it was caused by injustice. Social media didn't create the revolution; it was created by a new generation of young people who wanted jobs and hope and who didn't want to be treated as subjects anymore. But just as the Internet drops transaction and collaboration costs in business and government, it also drops the cost of dissent, of rebellion, and even insurrection in ways that people didn't understand. You know, during the Tunisian revolution, snipers associated with the regime were killing unarmed students in the street. So the students would take their mobile devices, take a picture, triangulate the location, send that picture to friendly military units, who'd come in and take out the snipers. You think that social media is about hooking up online? For these kids, it was a military tool to defend unarmed people from murderers. It was a tool of self-defense. You know, as we speak today, young people are being killed in Syria, and up until three months ago, if you were injured on the street, an ambulance would pick you up, take you to the hospital, you'd go in, say, with a broken leg, and you'd come out with a bullet in your head. So these 20-somethings created an alternative health care system, where what they did is they used Twitter and basic publicly available tools that when someone's injured, a car would show up, it would pick them up, take them to a makeshift medical clinic, where you'd get medical treatment, as opposed to being executed. So this is a time of great change. Now, it's not without its problems. Up until two years ago, all revolutions in human history had a leadership, and when the old regime fell, the leadership and the organization would take power. Well, these wiki revolutions happen so fast they create a vacuum, and politics abhors a vacuum, and unsavory forces can fill that, typically the old regime, or extremists, or fundamentalist forces. You can see this playing out today in Egypt. But that doesn't matter, because this is moving forward. The train has left the station. The cat is out of the bag. The horse is out of the barn. Help me out here, okay? (Laughter) The toothpaste is out of the tube. I mean, we're not putting this one back. The open world is bringing empowerment and freedom. I think, at the end of these four days, that you'll come to conclude that the arc of history is a positive one, and it's towards openness. If you go back a few hundred years, all around the world it was a very closed society. It was agrarian, and the means of production and political system was called feudalism, and knowledge was concentrated in the church and the nobility. People didn't know about things. There was no concept of progress. You were born, you lived your life and you died. But then Johannes Gutenberg came along with his great invention, and, over time, the society opened up. People started to learn about things, and when they did, the institutions of feudal society appeared to be stalled, or frozen, or failing. It didn't make sense for the church to be responsible for medicine when people had knowledge. So we saw the Protestant Reformation. Martin Luther called the printing press ""God's highest act of grace."" The creation of a corporation, science, the university, eventually the Industrial Revolution, and it was all good. But it came with a cost. And now, once again, the technology genie is out of the bottle, but this time it's different. The printing press gave us access to the written word. The Internet enables each of us to be a producer. The printing press gave us access to recorded knowledge. The Internet gives us access, not just to information and knowledge, but to the intelligence contained in the crania of other people on a global basis. To me, this is not an information age, it's an age of networked intelligence. It's an age of vast promise, an age of collaboration, where the boundaries of our organizations are changing, of transparency, where sunlight is disinfecting civilization, an age of sharing and understanding the new power of the commons, and it's an age of empowerment and of freedom. Now, what I'd like to do is, to close, to share with you some research that I've been doing. I've tried to study all kinds of organizations to understand what the future might look like, but I've been studying nature recently. You know, bees come in swarms and fish come in schools. Starlings, in the area around Edinburgh, in the moors of England, come in something called a murmuration, and the murmuration refers to the murmuring of the wings of the birds, and throughout the day the starlings are out over a 20-mile radius sort of doing their starling thing. And at night they come together and they create one of the most spectacular things in all of nature, and it's called a murmuration. And scientists that have studied this have said they've never seen an accident. Now, this thing has a function. It protects the birds. You can see on the right here, there's a predator being chased away by the collective power of the birds, and apparently this is a frightening thing if you're a predator of starlings. And there's leadership, but there's no one leader. Now, is this some kind of fanciful analogy, or could we actually learn something from this? Well, the murmuration functions to record a number of principles, and they're basically the principles that I have described to you today. This is a huge collaboration. It's an openness, it's a sharing of all kinds of information, not just about location and trajectory and danger and so on, but about food sources. And there's a real sense of interdependence, that the individual birds somehow understand that their interests are in the interest of the collective. Perhaps like we should understand that business can't succeed in a world that's failing. Well, I look at this thing, and I get a lot of hope. Think about the kids today in the Arab Spring, and you see something like this that's underway. And imagine, just consider this idea, if you would: What if we could connect ourselves in this world through a vast network of air and glass? Could we go beyond just sharing information and knowledge? Could we start to share our intelligence? Could we create some kind of collective intelligence that goes beyond an individual or a group or a team to create, perhaps, some kind of consciousness on a global basis? Well, if we could do this, we could attack some big problems in the world. And I look at this thing, and, I don't know, I get a lot of hope that maybe this smaller, networked, open world that our kids inherit might be a better one, and that this new age of networked intelligence could be an age of promise fulfilled and of peril unrequited. Let's do this. Thank you. (Applause)"	開放，這個名詞代表著機會和潛在的可能性。開放式的，開放式平爐，開放原始碼，門戶開放政策，開放酒吧（免費暢飲酒吧），（笑聲） 世界上的每個角落都變得更加開放，這是件好事。 這為什麼會發生呢？技術革命開放了這個世界。 昨天的網際網路是展示內容的平台。今天的網際網路是計算的平台。網際網路成為一個巨型的全球電腦，每一次你登錄，你上傳一個影片，你上谷歌搜索，你就重混了一些東西，你在這個大家共享的巨型全球計算機上做程式設計。人類正在建造一個機器，這使我們能夠用全新的方式合作。這種合作可發生在龐大的基礎上。 現在新一代正也在開放這個世界我大概從十五年前起開始研究孩子，事實上，大約 20 年前就開始了。我注意到自己的孩子能輕鬆自如地使用這些複雜的科技，一開始我認為「我的孩子是神童！」 （笑聲）但很快我就發現，他們的朋友也同樣厲害，所以我的理論不成立。我研究過數百個孩子，得出的結論是，他們是和數位時代同時到來的一代。他們沉浸於位元中，我稱他們為「網絡一代」我說過，這些孩子是不同的。他們不害怕科技，因為這種害怕並不存在。科技對他們就像空氣一樣。這也和我不害怕冰箱的道理一樣。並且—（笑聲） 沒有比第一代數位原住民更強大的力量可以改變每個機構。我則屬於數位時代的移民。我不得不學習這個語言。 全球範圍的經濟危機也在使這個世界更加開放。從工業時代的不透明體制，陳舊的公司體制，到政府、媒體、華爾街，都處於停滯或凍結甚至是萎縮或崩潰的各個階段，這樣的危機正在全球產生「燃燒的平台」效應。想想華爾街。其核心運作模式幾乎讓全球資本市場瀕臨崩潰。 你們都了解燃燒的平台是什麼意思，即保持現狀的成本高於改變現狀所需的資本，而這改變或許是徹底不同的改變。我們需要改變，開放我們所有的機構。 所以這種科技的推動，新世代的驅動，和來自新全球經濟環境的需求推動，造成全世界的開放。 現在，我認為，事實上，我們正處於人類歷史的一個轉折點，現在我們終於能夠重建許多工業時代的機構，為它們制定一套新準則。 那，什麼是開放呢？事實上，開放有許多不同的涵義，而每一種涵義都有對應的原則，與文明的轉變相呼應。第一個是合作。這種開放對組織的意義就是組織的疆界變得更具滲透性、靈活、和開放。 圖片中的男士，我要講述他的故事。他名叫羅伯·麥克伊文。我很想說，「我有這個智庫，在全世界尋找驚人的案例。」但我知道這個故事的原因是，他是我的鄰居。（笑聲）其實他搬到我們家對面，然後他辦了一個敦請睦鄰的雞尾酒聚會，他說，「你是唐·泰普斯科特。我讀過很多您的書。」我說，「很好！你是做什麼工作的？」他回答說，「我以前是個銀行家而現在我是個金礦工人。」接著他告訴我了這個驚奇的故事。他接管了這個金礦，而他的地質學家無法告訴他金子在哪裡。他給了他們更多的錢研究地質數據，他們研究之後，依然無法告訴他從哪裡開始投產。幾年之後，他非常沮喪，準備放棄。但有一天，他靈光一現。他想著，「如果我的地質學家不知道金子在哪裡，也許外面有人會知道。」所以他做了一件 「激進」的事情。他把那些地質數據發佈了出去，然後在網路上舉辦了一個競賽，叫做 「黃金公司大挑戰」。基本上就是 50 萬美元的獎金獎勵給任何人，只要他能夠告訴我，我是否有金子如果有，在哪裡呢？（笑聲） 他收到了來自世界各地的提案。他們用了一些他從未聽說過的技術，而他的 50 萬美元的獎金，為羅伯·麥克伊文找到了價值 34 億美元的金子。他公司的市值從 9000 萬美元暴漲到 100 億美元，因為他是我的鄰居，我可以告訴你，他非常快樂。（笑聲） 你知道，大家都說有才能的人就在公司裡，沒錯吧？你最寶貴的資產（員工）每晚都從電梯出去。但他用不同的角度看待有才的人。他想知道， 能相媲的人是誰？他本可以炒掉他的地質部門，但是他沒有。你知道，很多好的提案並非出自地質學家。它們出自電腦科學家，工程師之手。最後的贏家是一個電腦繪圖公司，這家公司製作了金礦的三維模型，你可以在電腦模型中上天入地看到金子在哪裡。 他幫助我們理解到社群媒體已經變得具有社會生產力。這不只是在網上交交朋友，這是一種新的生產模式。而他創造的「思想集合」，一個開放的思想集合市場，匯集了有獨特心智的人們，成為變革的一部分，是組織體系結構中的深遠改變，是我們如何協調能力以創新和創造產品和服務，與世界的其他地區交流，就政府而言，是我們如何創造公共價值。開放是為了合作。 第二個，開放是為了透明化。這是不同的。我們在討論組織內利害關係人間信息的交流：僱員、顧客、商業夥伴、股東等等。 在任何地方，我們的機構暴露無遺。大家都被維基洩密弄得不成人形，但是這只是冰山一角。你看，大家都瞭若指掌，每個人，而不只是阿桑奇，（維基解密的董事與發言人）都有有力的工具發掘信息，仔細檢查，通知大家，甚至組織集體反應。機構變得赤裸裸呈現， 如果你也想赤裸裸呈現，嗯，是有一些從其而來的必然推論。我是說，比如，健身不再可有可無。（笑聲）對吧？或是如果你想裸體， 你最好好好鍛鍊一下肌肉。 這裡，我所謂的鍛鍊，是說你需要有價值，因為價值前所未見地明顯。你自稱你有好的產品。那麼最好是真的好產品。但你同樣需要有價值。你需要讓正直誠實成為組織的骨頭及基因，如果你不這樣做，你就無法建立信任，而信任，是這個新的網路世界的必要條件。 這挺好的，沒什麼壞處。陽光是最好的消毒劑。而我們需要很多陽光來清潔這個藏汙納垢的世界。 開放的第三個意義和與其對應的原則就是分享。這個與透明化也不同。透明化是關於信息的交流。分享是放棄一些資產，智慧財產權。 有很多相關的著名故事。IBM （國際商用機器）送了價值四億美元的軟體讓 Linux （開放核心）系統運動發展，而得到了幾十億美元的收益 。 常言道，「嗯，我們的智慧財產權屬於我們，如果有人想要侵權，我們就會找我們的律師，然後起訴侵權者。」唱片公司如此做也沒成功，對吧？我是說， 他們－他們有技術中斷的問題，但他們不採取商業模式創新來作為對應，反而尋求法律途徑，而這個帶給你貓王和披頭四的行業現在正在起訴兒童，並且岌岌可危。 所以我們需要換個角度來思考智慧財產權。 我來告訴你一個事例。製藥界現在深陷困境。第一，這個行業搞不出什麼新藥了，這對於人類健康來說是個大問題，而製藥業還有更大的問題，他們就快要墜入所謂的「專利懸崖」裡。你們知道這意味著什麼嗎？他們會在接下來的 12 個月中失去 20% 到 35% 的收入。那你要怎麼辦？減少迴紋針之類的支出？不是的。 我們需要改造整個科研體系。製藥界需要把他們的資產變成公有財。同業需要開始分享市場競爭前的研究。他們需要開始共享臨床試驗數據，這樣做，可以讓各方受益，不僅僅是為了醫藥行業，也是為了人類。 第四個開放的意義和與之對應的原則是賦權。我不是說母親自主權之類的意思。知識和智慧就是力量，因為力量已經更加分散，隨之而來式的權力分配和權力去集中化和去集體化都在世界各地進行。開放的世界帶來自由。 現在我們以阿拉伯之春為例。有關社群媒體的角色的辯論與社會變化已經塵埃落定了。你知道，一個字，突尼西亞。它最後也演變成其他許多字。但在突尼西亞革命，新的媒體並沒有引發革命；它是由不公平引起的。社群媒體沒有引起革命；革命是由年輕人的一代引起的，他們要求工作機會、希望他們不想再被當成唯命是從的愚民。 但是如同網路降低交易費用和商業與政府相互合作的成本，它同時降低了異議者和叛變者的成本，甚至暴動的成本，是大家原來並不瞭解的。 你知道，在突尼西亞革命時，與政權有關聯的狙擊手在街上殺害手無寸鐵的學生。因此學生們用他們的手機，拍下相片，三角定位，將相片寄給友好的軍隊單位，軍隊就會來處理掉那些狙擊手。你還認為社群媒體只是在網路上交朋友嗎？對這些孩子來說，它是手無寸鐵的人對抗謀殺者的軍事武器。那是自衛的工具。 你知道，此時此刻，許多年輕人在敘利亞被殺害，直到三個月前，如果你在街上受傷，救護車會來接你，載你到醫院，你進去的時候是腿斷，你出來時是腦部中槍。 所以這些 20 多歲的年輕人創造了另一種醫療系統，他們用推特和公開可用的基本工具來聯繫，有人受傷時，一輛車會來接他們，帶他們去一個臨時診所，他們會在那裡得到醫療而不是被殺。所以這是個大變化的時代。 這個時代並不是沒有問題。直到兩年前，人類歷史上的革命都有領導者，當舊的政權崩潰時，革命的領導和組織就會得權，但這些維基革命發生得如此快，它們造成權力真空，政治痛恨真空，因為不好的力量會補進去，特別是舊的政權或是激進份子，或是基本教義派的武裝團體。你可以看到今天的埃及就是如此。 但那無所謂，因為開放正在向前。火車已離站，貓已跑出袋子（秘密已經公開），馬已離開馬廄（來不及了）。還有什麼說法？幫我一下！（笑聲）牙膏已被擠出來了。（木已成舟）我的意思是，我們不會回頭了。開放的世界帶來賦權和自由。 我想，在這四天的研討會後，你會下此結論：歷史的走向是正面的，而且是朝向開放的。 如果你回到幾百年前，世界各地都是非常封閉的社會。它是農業的社會，但生產的方式及政治體系是封建的，知識集中在教會和貴族裡面。人民是無知的。那時沒有進步的概念。你出生，過日子，然後死亡。 直到約翰內斯·古騰堡和他偉大的活字印刷術發明出現，然後，慢慢地，社會才開放起來。人民開始學習，知識普遍後，封建社會機構開始停滯、凍結和潰敗。當人民有知識時，由教堂負責醫療不再合理。 然後我們就看到宗教改革。馬丁路德稱印刷機為「上帝最高的恩惠。」公司、科學、大學的創立，最後是工業革命，這些都是很好的。 但是，那是有代價的。 現在，再一次，科技的精靈從瓶子出來了，但這次不同了。印刷機讓我們看到印出來的文章。網路使我們每個人都成為製作人。印刷機讓我們看到記錄的知識。網路則讓我們接觸不只是資訊和知識，還有全球其他人腦子裡的智慧。 對我而言，這不是資訊的年代，而是智慧網路的時代。這是一個大有前景的時代，許多人一起合作的時代。我們組織的疆界開始改變，組織變得透明，太陽為文明消毒，這是一個分享、了解人民新權力的時代。這是一個賦權和自由的時代。 現在，我想要做的是，作為總結，與你們分享我在做的一些研究。我研究了各種各樣的組織以了解未來會是什麼樣。但我最近在研究自然。 你知道，蜜蜂是成群的魚也是成群的。在愛丁堡周圍的地區英格蘭高地，椋鳥大群噗噗飛舞(murmuration)，這個噗噗聲是翅膀搧動發出來的，在白天，這些歐椋鳥，在 20 多英里半徑的範圍裡自得其樂。晚上牠們會聚集在一起創造一個壯觀的自然現象，那就是叫做噗噗聲現象。研究過這個的科學家說他們沒有見過一次意外。這件事有一個作用。它保護這些鳥。你看這裡右邊，有一隻捕食者被這些鳥的集體力量嚇走了，如果你是歐椋鳥的捕食者，顯然這是一件很可怕的事。牠們有領導，但是沒有單一的領導者。 這只是一個空想的比喻？或者我們真的可以從這個現象學到東西？這個噗噗聲現象的作用是記錄一些原則，而這些原則基本上就是我今天與你們分享的那些原則。這是大型的合作。它是開放的，是各種資訊的分享，不只是地點、移動軌跡和危險等等，而是食物來源。而且這裡有真正的相互依賴，每隻鳥好像都知道個別的利益存在於集體利益中。 或許如我們應了解到商業無法在一個衰敗的世界裡成功。 看著這個，我就有了很多的希望。想想今天在阿拉伯之春的孩子，你看到的是和這個雷同的現象。 想像一下，稍微想一下就好：如果我們在這世界可以透過巨大的空氣和玻璃網彼此連結會怎樣？我們可以超越訊息和知識的分享嗎？我們可以開始分享我們的智慧嗎？我們可以創造某種集體智慧超越個人、群體或團隊，來創造某種全球性的意識嗎？如果可以，我們就能解決世界上的大問題。 我看著這個，我不知道，我覺得很有希望我們的孩子所繼承的這個小一點、互聯的、開放的世界會是一個比較好的世界，而這個智慧網的新時代可成為一個應許承諾的時代一個不再有危險的時代。 我們一起做吧。謝謝。 （掌聲）
