Talk	en	zh-tw
don_tapscott_how_the_blockchain_is_changing_money_and_business	"The technology likely to have the greatest impact on the next few decades has arrived. And it's not social media. It's not big data. It's not robotics. It's not even AI. You'll be surprised to learn that it's the underlying technology of digital currencies like Bitcoin. It's called the blockchain. Blockchain. Now, it's not the most sonorous word in the world, but I believe that this is now the next generation of the internet, and that it holds vast promise for every business, every society and for all of you, individually. You know, for the past few decades, we've had the internet of information. And when I send you an email or a PowerPoint file or something, I'm actually not sending you the original, I'm sending you a copy. And that's great. This is democratized information. But when it comes to assets — things like money, financial assets like stocks and bonds, loyalty points, intellectual property, music, art, a vote, carbon credit and other assets — sending you a copy is a really bad idea. If I send you 100 dollars, it's really important that I don't still have the money — (Laughter) and that I can't send it to you. This has been called the ""double-spend"" problem by cryptographers for a long time. So today, we rely entirely on big intermediaries — middlemen like banks, government, big social media companies, credit card companies and so on — to establish trust in our economy. And these intermediaries perform all the business and transaction logic of every kind of commerce, from authentication, identification of people, through to clearing, settling and record keeping. And overall, they do a pretty good job. But there are growing problems. To begin, they're centralized. That means they can be hacked, and increasingly are — JP Morgan, the US Federal Government, LinkedIn, Home Depot and others found that out the hard way. They exclude billions of people from the global economy, for example, people who don't have enough money to have a bank account. They slow things down. It can take a second for an email to go around the world, but it can take days or weeks for money to move through the banking system across a city. And they take a big piece of the action — 10 to 20 percent just to send money to another country. They capture our data, and that means we can't monetize it or use it to better manage our lives. Our privacy is being undermined. And the biggest problem is that overall, they've appropriated the largesse of the digital age asymmetrically: we have wealth creation, but we have growing social inequality. So what if there were not only an internet of information, what if there were an internet of value — some kind of vast, global, distributed ledger running on millions of computers and available to everybody. And where every kind of asset, from money to music, could be stored, moved, transacted, exchanged and managed, all without powerful intermediaries? What if there were a native medium for value? Well, in 2008, the financial industry crashed and, perhaps propitiously, an anonymous person or persons named Satoshi Nakamoto created a paper where he developed a protocol for a digital cash that used an underlying cryptocurrency called Bitcoin. And this cryptocurrency enabled people to establish trust and do transactions without a third party. And this seemingly simple act set off a spark that ignited the world, that has everyone excited or terrified or otherwise interested in many places. Now, don't be confused about Bitcoin — Bitcoin is an asset; it goes up and down, and that should be of interest to you if you're a speculator. More broadly, it's a cryptocurrency. It's not a fiat currency controlled by a nation-state. And that's of greater interest. But the real pony here is the underlying technology. It's called blockchain. So for the first time now in human history, people everywhere can trust each other and transact peer to peer. And trust is established, not by some big institution, but by collaboration, by cryptography and by some clever code. And because trust is native to the technology, I call this, ""The Trust Protocol."" Now, you're probably wondering: How does this thing work? Fair enough. Assets — digital assets like money to music and everything in between — are not stored in a central place, but they're distributed across a global ledger, using the highest level of cryptography. And when a transaction is conducted, it's posted globally, across millions and millions of computers. And out there, around the world, is a group of people called ""miners."" These are not young people, they're Bitcoin miners. They have massive computing power at their fingertips — 10 to 100 times bigger than all of Google worldwide. These miners do a lot of work. And every 10 minutes, kind of like the heartbeat of a network, a block gets created that has all the transactions from the previous 10 minutes. Then the miners get to work, trying to solve some tough problems. And they compete: the first miner to find out the truth and to validate the block, is rewarded in digital currency, in the case of the Bitcoin blockchain, with Bitcoin. And then — this is the key part — that block is linked to the previous block and the previous block to create a chain of blocks. And every one is time-stamped, kind of like with a digital waxed seal. So if I wanted to go and hack a block and, say, pay you and you with the same money, I'd have to hack that block, plus all the preceding blocks, the entire history of commerce on that blockchain, not just on one computer but across millions of computers, simultaneously, all using the highest levels of encryption, in the light of the most powerful computing resource in the world that's watching me. Tough to do. This is infinitely more secure than the computer systems that we have today. Blockchain. That's how it works. So the Bitcoin blockchain is just one. There are many. The Ethereum blockchain was developed by a Canadian named Vitalik Buterin. He's [22] years old, and this blockchain has some extraordinary capabilities. One of them is that you can build smart contracts. It's kind of what it sounds like. It's a contract that self-executes, and the contract handles the enforcement, the management, performance and payment — the contract kind of has a bank account, too, in a sense — of agreements between people. And today, on the Ethereum blockchain, there are projects underway to do everything from create a new replacement for the stock market to create a new model of democracy, where politicians are accountable to citizens. (Applause) So to understand what a radical change this is going to bring, let's look at one industry, financial services. Recognize this? Rube Goldberg machine. It's a ridiculously complicated machine that does something really simple, like crack an egg or shut a door. Well, it kind of reminds me of the financial services industry, honestly. I mean, you tap your card in the corner store, and a bitstream goes through a dozen companies, each with their own computer system, some of them being 1970s mainframes older than many of the people in this room, and three days later, a settlement occurs. Well, with a blockchain financial industry, there would be no settlement, because the payment and the settlement is the same activity, it's just a change in the ledger. So Wall Street and all around the world, the financial industry is in a big upheaval about this, wondering, can we be replaced, or how do we embrace this technology for success? Now, why should you care? Well, let me describe some applications. Prosperity. The first era of the internet, the internet of information, brought us wealth but not shared prosperity, because social inequality is growing. And this is at the heart of all of the anger and extremism and protectionism and xenophobia and worse that we're seeing growing in the world today, Brexit being the most recent case. So could we develop some new approaches to this problem of inequality? Because the only approach today is to redistribute wealth, tax people and spread it around more. Could we pre-distribute wealth? Could we change the way that wealth gets created in the first place by democratizing wealth creation, engaging more people in the economy, and then ensuring that they got fair compensation? Let me describe five ways that this can be done. Number one: Did you know that 70 percent of the people in the world who have land have a tenuous title to it? So, you've got a little farm in Honduras, some dictator comes to power, he says, ""I know you've got a piece of paper that says you own your farm, but the government computer says my friend owns your farm."" This happened on a mass scale in Honduras, and this problem exists everywhere. Hernando de Soto, the great Latin American economist, says this is the number one issue in the world in terms of economic mobility, more important than having a bank account, because if you don't have a valid title to your land, you can't borrow against it, and you can't plan for the future. So today, companies are working with governments to put land titles on a blockchain. And once it's there, this is immutable. You can't hack it. This creates the conditions for prosperity for potentially billions of people. Secondly: a lot of writers talk about Uber and Airbnb and TaskRabbit and Lyft and so on as part of the sharing economy. This is a very powerful idea, that peers can come together and create and share wealth. My view is that ... these companies are not really sharing. In fact, they're successful precisely because they don't share. They aggregate services together, and they sell them. What if, rather than Airbnb being a $25 billion corporation, there was a distributed application on a blockchain, we'll call it B-Airbnb, and it was essentially owned by all of the people who have a room to rent. And when someone wants to rent a room, they go onto the blockchain database and all the criteria, they sift through, it helps them find the right room, and then the blockchain helps with the contracting, it identifies the party, it handles the payments just through digital payments — they're built into the system. And it even handles reputation, because if she rates a room as a five-star room, that room is there, and it's rated, and it's immutable. So, the big sharing-economy disruptors in Silicon Valley could be disrupted, and this would be good for prosperity. Number three: the biggest flow of funds from the developed world to the developing world is not corporate investment, and it's not even foreign aid. It's remittances. This is the global diaspora; people have left their ancestral lands, and they're sending money back to their families at home. This is 600 billion dollars a year, and it's growing, and these people are getting ripped off. Analie Domingo is a housekeeper. She lives in Toronto, and every month she goes to the Western Union office with some cash to send her remittances to her mom in Manila. It costs her around 10 percent; the money takes four to seven days to get there; her mom never knows when it's going to arrive. It takes five hours out of her week to do this. Six months ago, Analie Domingo used a blockchain application called Abra. And from her mobile device, she sent 300 bucks. It went directly to her mom's mobile device without going through an intermediary. And then her mom looked at her mobile device — it's kind of like an Uber interface, there's Abra ""tellers"" moving around. She clicks on a teller that's a five-star teller, who's seven minutes away. The guy shows up at the door, gives her Filipino pesos, she puts them in her wallet. The whole thing took minutes, and it cost her two percent. This is a big opportunity for prosperity. Number four: the most powerful asset of the digital age is data. And data is really a new asset class, maybe bigger than previous asset classes, like land under the agrarian economy, or an industrial plant, or even money. And all of you — we — create this data. We create this asset, and we leave this trail of digital crumbs behind us as we go throughout life. And these crumbs are collected into a mirror image of you, the virtual you. And the virtual you may know more about you than you do, because you can't remember what you bought a year ago, or said a year ago, or your exact location a year ago. And the virtual you is not owned by you — that's the big problem. So today, there are companies working to create an identity in a black box, the virtual you owned by you. And this black box moves around with you as you travel throughout the world, and it's very, very stingy. It only gives away the shred of information that's required to do something. A lot of transactions, the seller doesn't even need to know who you are. They just need to know that they got paid. And then this avatar is sweeping up all of this data and enabling you to monetize it. And this is a wonderful thing, because it can also help us protect our privacy, and privacy is the foundation of a free society. Let's get this asset that we create back under our control, where we can own our own identity and manage it responsibly. Finally — (Applause) Finally, number five: there are a whole number of creators of content who don't receive fair compensation, because the system for intellectual property is broken. It was broken by the first era of the internet. Take music. Musicians are left with crumbs at the end of the whole food chain. You know, if you were a songwriter, 25 years ago, you wrote a hit song, it got a million singles, you could get royalties of around 45,000 dollars. Today, you're a songwriter, you write a hit song, it gets a million streams, you don't get 45k, you get 36 dollars, enough to buy a nice pizza. So Imogen Heap, the Grammy-winning singer-songwriter, is now putting music on a blockchain ecosystem. She calls it ""Mycelia."" And the music has a smart contract surrounding it. And the music protects her intellectual property rights. You want to listen to the song? It's free, or maybe a few micro-cents that flow into a digital account. You want to put the song in your movie, that's different, and the IP rights are all specified. You want to make a ringtone? That's different. She describes that the song becomes a business. It's out there on this platform marketing itself, protecting the rights of the author, and because the song has a payment system in the sense of bank account, all the money flows back to the artist, and they control the industry, rather than these powerful intermediaries. Now, this is — (Applause) This is not just songwriters, it's any creator of content, like art, like inventions, scientific discoveries, journalists. There are all kinds of people who don't get fair compensation, and with blockchains, they're going to be able to make it rain on the blockchain. And that's a wonderful thing. So, these are five opportunities out of a dozen to solve one problem, prosperity, which is one of countless problems that blockchains are applicable to. Now, technology doesn't create prosperity, of course — people do. But my case to you is that, once again, the technology genie has escaped from the bottle, and it was summoned by an unknown person or persons at this uncertain time in human history, and it's giving us another kick at the can, another opportunity to rewrite the economic power grid and the old order of things, and solve some of the world's most difficult problems, if we will it. Thank you. (Applause)"	能在接下來的幾十年中帶給我們重大的影響的科技，已經來臨了。但它不是社交媒體，不是大數據，也不是機器人，更不是人工智慧。各位將會很驚訝地發現，那就是數位貨幣如Bitcoin所基於的根本技術——我們稱它為「區塊鍊」，「區塊——鍊」。 它現在雖然名氣不是很響亮，但我相信它會是下一世代的網際網路，而且它很有希望可以為每個企業、社會、個人帶來很多好處。 過去幾十年，我們有資訊網路。當我寄一封電子郵件或者一份幻燈片或者某樣東西給你時，我實際上寄給你的不是原創版本，而是一份副本。這樣很好，這是大眾化的資訊。但當我們談到資產時——比如說金錢，或是金融資產的股票、債劵、紅利積點、知識產權、音樂、藝術、投票權、碳排信用額度和其他資產——寄一個盜版的給你，的確不是甚麼好事，如果我要寄100美元的資產給你，而重要的是實際上我卻沒有這筆資產， (笑聲) 所以我不能寄給你，這就是密碼學家長期以來稱之為「重複花費」的問題， 時至今日，我們依然完全仰賴大型的中間機構——像是銀行、政府、大型社交媒體公司、信用卡公司...等等，讓他們在我們的經濟活動中建立信用關係。而這些中間機構在各種商業行為及交易過程中，扮演了重要的角色，從個人的信用審核到身分辨識、從清賬到結算以及交易記錄的保存。整體而言，它們表現得很不錯，但之後問題也越來越多了。 從一開始，它們就是中心化的。這也意味著，它們可以被駭客入侵，而且還有增加的趨勢——JP摩根、美國聯邦政府、LinkedIn、家得寶...等等簡直防不勝防。它們也把好幾百萬人屏除在經濟活動之外，比如，錢不夠的人不能在銀行開戶。它們浪費了很多時間。你發一封信到世界任何一個角落，只要幾秒鐘的時間，但透過銀行體系，卻得要好幾天或幾個禮拜，才能把錢從一個城市轉到另一個城市，而且它們所費不貲——只是把錢轉到另一個城市，就要收取10~20%的費用。他們手中握著我們所有的資料，這也意味著，這筆資料不能變現或者用它來改善我們的生活。我們的隱私被侵犯了。但最大的問題是，它們超出自身應有範圍地挪用數位化時代的無形資產：我們的財富雖然增加了，但社會的不公也跟著增加。 所以，如果我們不僅是有資訊網路，要是還有價值網路，那又會如何呢？比如說像是大型的全球記帳本，由好幾百萬台的電腦來運作，而且每個人都可以使用。各種類型的資產，從金錢到音樂，都不用透過中間機構的介入就能完成儲存、移動、交易、交換、管理的動作，那會如何呢？要是有一個價值的天然媒介那該有多好？ 果然，2008年的金融海嘯，也許是因為這樣的時空背景，一位匿名者叫「中本聰」的人或團體，創造了數位現金協議的白皮書，運用在一個叫做比特幣的加密電子貨幣上。這個加密電子貨幣讓人們可以不用透過第三方就能建立信任、直接進行交易。而這看似一個簡單的動作，引起了很大的迴響，在世界上很多地方，造成了轟動，讓很多人不是興奮、害怕就是感到有趣。千萬不要誤會比特幣——比特幣僅是個資產，價格會上上下下，應該只有投機客會對它感興趣。更廣義地說，它只是一種「加密電子貨幣」。它不是由某一個國家所控制的實體貨幣，它有比較多的優點。但這項科技真正厲害的地方，就是它的「區塊鏈」技術。 這是人類史上第一次，各地的人們可以互相信任彼此點對點地處理事情（P2P）。而這個信任的機制，不是由一些大型機構所發佈的，而是由集體的加密方式以運用一些頂尖的密碼學所組成的。因為信任就是科技的天性。我稱它為「信任協議」。 現在各位可能會想：它到底是怎麼運作的？這很合理。資產——數位資產，像是金錢、音樂、這當中的所有東西——並不是集中在一個中心地方存放著，而是用最高級的密碼科技存放在世界各地的帳本裡，當一個交易產生時，它就會被記錄在全球各地好幾百萬台的電腦裡面。此外，世界各地還有一群人被稱之為「礦工」的人。他們不是年輕人，他們是挖比特幣的礦工。他們的電腦有超強的運算能力比世界上所有的Google電腦還要快10到100倍。這些礦工做了很多工作。每10分鐘，就會有一個區塊產生，有點像是網路的心跳，每一個區塊記錄著前10分鐘所有的交易。礦工就會嘗試著去解決最困難的問題。 他們會互相競爭：第一個找到真相並驗證區塊的礦工就可以得到一個數位幣，以比特幣區塊鍊而言，先找到的人就會得一個比特幣。之後，關鍵就在此，這個區塊會連結之前的區塊，之前的區塊再連結之前的區塊，進而形成一個區塊鍊。每個人都是一個時間戳記有點像是數位封條。所以如果我想駭進區塊比如說，用同樣一筆錢，同時付給兩個人，我就必須駭進該區塊，加上之前所有的區塊，以及所有區塊鍊之前的歷史交易記錄，而且不只一台電腦，且必須同時駭進上百萬台的電腦，這些電腦都是使用最高級的加密技術、在全世界運算資源最強的環境下監視著我的一舉一動，太難了。這比我們現今所有的電腦系統還要嚴密。這就是區塊鍊運作的原理。 比特幣區塊鍊僅是其中一個，還有很多其他的。以太坊區塊鍊是由一位名叫Vitalik Buterin的加拿大人所建立的。他現在22歲，（講者口誤，非19歲）這個區塊鍊有一些神奇的功能。其中一個是，你可以在這個平台上建立智能合約。正如其名，它是一份可以自我執行的合約，它有強制性、管理與執行的能力還有付款能力，——某種程度而言，合約本身也像是個銀行帳戶——可以處理人與人之間的約定，目前，在以太坊區塊鍊下，已經有很多專案正在進行，從股票市場新的替代方案到新民主模式的創建，在這些模式下，政治人物是需要為人民負責的。 （掌聲） 所以為了要讓各位了解，區塊鍊將帶來甚麼樣的大改變，我們先從金融服務業開始講起。認得出這是甚麼嗎？魯布·戈德堡機械。這是一部複雜到不行的機械設備，但它只會做一些簡單動作，像是打一顆蛋或關一扇門。它讓我聯想到現今的金融服物業，真的。我的意思是，你在轉角的一家商店刷卡，然後會有一串的數位資訊流，流穿過好幾家公司的電腦，有些電腦系統的主架構都還是1970年代的，比在場很多人都還要來的老，三天後，交易完成了。對金融產業的區塊鍊而言，根本沒有“結清”這回事，因為付款及結清是同一個動作，它只是帳本上數字的變動。所以華爾街及全世界的金融市場，都相當關心這項科技的發展，關心他們是否會被取代，或者要如何擁抱這項科技進而獲得成功？ 那，你為什麼要關心這件事？好，我再描述一些這項科技的其他應用。繁榮。第一世代的網際網路、資訊網路，為我們帶來了財富，但並不是共享的繁榮，因為社會不平等也跟著成長。而這陰影潛藏在憤怒者與極端主義者的心理，因此我們會看到現今的世界，充滿了保護主義、排外主義等各種糟糕的現象，英國脫歐就是最佳例子。 所以，我們可以發展一些方法來解決不公平的問題嗎？因為現今唯一的方法就是財富重新分配、納稅機制的改革。我們有可能就事先就分配好財富嗎？我們能否藉由財富增長大眾化、吸引更多人參與經濟活動、確保他們得到公平的報酬等舉措來改變財富起初的創造方式呢？我說明一下，有五種方式可以做到。 第一：各位知不知道，世界上70%擁有土地的人，他們的土地權利有瑕疵呢？比如說，你在宏都拉斯有一塊小農地，有一天，一些獨裁者當權，他們說「我知道你有一張薄薄的紙證明你擁有這塊土地，但根據政府的電腦紀錄，你這塊地是我朋友的。」這種現象在宏都拉斯很常見，這樣的問題，到處都有。埃爾南多·德·索托，拉丁美洲最偉大的經濟學家，他說，這是世上就經濟流動性來說的頭號問題，比有銀行帳號還要重要，因為如果你的土地沒有合法的權利證明，你就不能借錢來對抗這樣的事件，你不能為未來做打算。 所以目前，已經有公司開始協助政府，把土地權利放到區塊鍊裡面。一旦放進去了，就不能更動了。你無法駭進去。這樣就能為好幾百萬人創造出繁榮。 第二：有很多作家，提到 Uber、Airbnb 、TaskRabbit、 Lyft 等等說它們是屬於共享經濟的一部分。這些點子都很棒，大家一起創造共享財富。但我的看法是...這些公司並不是真正的共享。實際上，他們會成功的原因是因為他們不分享。他們把服務整合起來，然後賣掉。要是有一家由房東們所組成的公司，我們就叫他B-Airbnb公司好了,在區塊鍊上申請登記，而不是價值25億美金的Airbnb公司，那會如何呢？當有人要租房間的時候，他們上區塊鍊上登記住房需求，過濾了一些條件，區塊鍊幫他們找出他們想要的房間，然後協助雙方做出合約、驗證彼此的身分、只要透過他們在系統上建立的數位付款方式，區塊鍊就能幫忙處理付款流程。甚至也能處理評價問題，因為如果客戶給5顆星，那個房間的排名就會往前，而且不能更改。所以，矽谷大型共享經濟的破壞者是有可能被消滅的，而這對繁榮才是好的。 第三：從已開發國家到發展中國家的最大的資金流不是企業的投資，也不是國際支援。是匯款。這群散佈在全球的海外區民，他們離開了故鄉，把在海外賺來的錢，匯回到家裡。平均一年有6000億美金，而且還在持續成長，這些人簡直是被搶劫了。 阿奈兒多明戈是一位女管家，她住在多倫多，每個月她帶著現金，去西聯的辦公室，匯款給她在馬里拉家鄉的母親，西聯會收取她10％的手續費；而且錢要4~7天才能匯到；她母親永遠不知道錢甚麼時候會到，她每個禮拜要花五個小時來處理這件事。 六個月前，阿奈兒多明戈用了一個叫Abra的區塊鍊的App。她從她的手機寄了300金到她母親的手機裡面，匯款過程完全沒有透過任何中間機構。然後她母親查看她的手機設備——它有點像Uber的介面，螢幕上有很多Abra的出納員跑來跑去。她點選了一位距離她7分鐘遠的五顆星出納員，那個人出現在她家門口，直接給她菲律賓幣，然後她直接把錢放口袋。整件事情前後不到幾分鐘，只收她2%的手續費。這是人民繁榮興盛的好機會。 第四：在數位年代，最有價值的資產就是數據。數據真的是一個全新的資產類別，也許比之前的資產類別還要大，像是農業經濟之下的土地，或像是工業廠房、甚至是金錢。數據是由你、我以及我們所有人共同創造出來的資產，我們在日常生活中，留下了很多數位的足跡。而這些足跡匯集起來，會變成鏡中影像的你，一個虛擬的你。而這個虛擬的你，甚至比你還了解你自己，因為你根本記不起你一年前買了甚麼，或者說一年前，你在哪個地方。而這個虛擬的你，並不是由你所持有的——這是個大問題。 所以目前，已經有公司開始創造一種記錄身分的黑盒子，一種由你個人所擁有的虛擬的你。當你到世界各地旅行的時候，這個黑盒子會跟在你身邊，而且它非常非常“吝嗇”。當你要做交易時，它只會給出少量的必要的資訊。有很多交易，賣家根本都不認識你。他們只要知道他們有收到錢就好了。 之後這個化身會把這些信息全部清空，讓你可以兌現交易。這是件很棒的事情，因為它可以幫助我們保護我們的隱私，而隱私就是自由社會的基石。讓我們把這個資產的控制權要回來，讓我們自己擁有自己的身分記錄讓我們自已管理它。 最後—— （掌聲） 最後，第五：有很多的內容物創作家，並沒有得到相對應的公平補償，因為在第一代的網際網路智慧財產權是不被重視的。例如，音樂。音樂家在整個產業的食物鏈裡，幾乎是被遺棄的。各位應該知道，如果你是位作曲家，25年前，你寫了一首相當熱賣的歌，專輯賣了100萬張，你大概會有45000美元的收入。但現在，你寫了一首流行歌，有100萬的流覽量，你拿不到45000美元，你只能拿到36美元，只夠買個披薩。 所以，伊莫珍·希普葛來美獎的歌手兼創作家，已經開始把音樂放進區塊鍊生態系統。她稱它叫「Mycelia」。那些音樂有綁定一份智能合約。這樣她的音樂智慧財產權就能被保護起來。你想聽歌嗎？它是免費的，或者只需要往電子賬戶裡打幾毛錢。你想把歌放進你的電影，那就不同了，智慧財產權都是有約束性的。你想要把它弄成手機鈴聲？那也不同。她說，歌曲創作變成了一門生意。你把音樂放在平台上，它自己就會開始賺錢，保護創作者的權利，因為音樂本身在銀行帳戶的辨識系統下，有支付功能，所有的錢都會回流到藝術家身上，由藝術家來控制產業，而不是那些強勢中間媒介。如今... （掌聲） 不僅只有詞曲創作家，任何內容物創造者，像是美術，發明、科學發現、新聞工作者。那些以前沒有得到合理公平待遇的人，用了區塊鍊技術，他們就能如魚得水地赚錢。這是很棒的事。 除了這五個機會，還有其它的，都是為了要解決一個問題，「繁榮」，這也是最不被關注的問題，而區塊鍊是可以解決的。 當然，不是科技創造了繁榮，是人創造的，但我要提醒各位，我再說一遍，科技精靈已經逃離了枷鎖，在人類歷史上的這某個時間被某些未知的人或團體召喚出來了，這次的改變給予了我們再次嘗試去改善的機會，另一次重繪經濟權力版圖的機會，改寫舊思維的機會，並且可以解決世界上一些最困難的問題，如果我們願意的話... 感謝各位。（掌聲）
