Talk	en	zh-tw
donald_hoffman_do_we_see_reality_as_it_is	"I love a great mystery, and I'm fascinated by the greatest unsolved mystery in science, perhaps because it's personal. It's about who we are, and I can't help but be curious. The mystery is this: What is the relationship between your brain and your conscious experiences, such as your experience of the taste of chocolate or the feeling of velvet? Now, this mystery is not new. In 1868, Thomas Huxley wrote, ""How it is that anything so remarkable as a state of consciousness comes about as the result of irritating nervous tissue is just as unaccountable as the appearance of the genie when Aladdin rubbed his lamp."" Now, Huxley knew that brain activity and conscious experiences are correlated, but he didn't know why. To the science of his day, it was a mystery. In the years since Huxley, science has learned a lot about brain activity, but the relationship between brain activity and conscious experiences is still a mystery. Why? Why have we made so little progress? Well, some experts think that we can't solve this problem because we lack the necessary concepts and intelligence. We don't expect monkeys to solve problems in quantum mechanics, and as it happens, we can't expect our species to solve this problem either. Well, I disagree. I'm more optimistic. I think we've simply made a false assumption. Once we fix it, we just might solve this problem. Today, I'd like tell you what that assumption is, why it's false, and how to fix it. Let's begin with a question: Do we see reality as it is? I open my eyes and I have an experience that I describe as a red tomato a meter away. As a result, I come to believe that in reality, there's a red tomato a meter away. I then close my eyes, and my experience changes to a gray field, but is it still the case that in reality, there's a red tomato a meter away? I think so, but could I be wrong? Could I be misinterpreting the nature of my perceptions? We have misinterpreted our perceptions before. We used to think the Earth is flat, because it looks that way. Pythagorus discovered that we were wrong. Then we thought that the Earth is the unmoving center of the Universe, again because it looks that way. Copernicus and Galileo discovered, again, that we were wrong. Galileo then wondered if we might be misinterpreting our experiences in other ways. He wrote: ""I think that tastes, odors, colors, and so on reside in consciousness. Hence if the living creature were removed, all these qualities would be annihilated."" Now, that's a stunning claim. Could Galileo be right? Could we really be misinterpreting our experiences that badly? What does modern science have to say about this? Well, neuroscientists tell us that about a third of the brain's cortex is engaged in vision. When you simply open your eyes and look about this room, billions of neurons and trillions of synapses are engaged. Now, this is a bit surprising, because to the extent that we think about vision at all, we think of it as like a camera. It just takes a picture of objective reality as it is. Now, there is a part of vision that's like a camera: the eye has a lens that focuses an image on the back of the eye where there are 130 million photoreceptors, so the eye is like a 130-megapixel camera. But that doesn't explain the billions of neurons and trillions of synapses that are engaged in vision. What are these neurons up to? Well, neuroscientists tell us that they are creating, in real time, all the shapes, objects, colors, and motions that we see. It feels like we're just taking a snapshot of this room the way it is, but in fact, we're constructing everything that we see. We don't construct the whole world at once. We construct what we need in the moment. Now, there are many demonstrations that are quite compelling that we construct what we see. I'll just show you two. In this example, you see some red discs with bits cut out of them, but if I just rotate the disks a little bit, suddenly, you see a 3D cube pop out of the screen. Now, the screen of course is flat, so the three-dimensional cube that you're experiencing must be your construction. In this next example, you see glowing blue bars with pretty sharp edges moving across a field of dots. In fact, no dots move. All I'm doing from frame to frame is changing the colors of dots from blue to black or black to blue. But when I do this quickly, your visual system creates the glowing blue bars with the sharp edges and the motion. There are many more examples, but these are just two that you construct what you see. But neuroscientists go further. They say that we reconstruct reality. So, when I have an experience that I describe as a red tomato, that experience is actually an accurate reconstruction of the properties of a real red tomato that would exist even if I weren't looking. Now, why would neuroscientists say that we don't just construct, we reconstruct? Well, the standard argument given is usually an evolutionary one. Those of our ancestors who saw more accurately had a competitive advantage compared to those who saw less accurately, and therefore they were more likely to pass on their genes. We are the offspring of those who saw more accurately, and so we can be confident that, in the normal case, our perceptions are accurate. You see this in the standard textbooks. One textbook says, for example, ""Evolutionarily speaking, vision is useful precisely because it is so accurate."" So the idea is that accurate perceptions are fitter perceptions. They give you a survival advantage. Now, is this correct? Is this the right interpretation of evolutionary theory? Well, let's first look at a couple of examples in nature. The Australian jewel beetle is dimpled, glossy and brown. The female is flightless. The male flies, looking, of course, for a hot female. When he finds one, he alights and mates. There's another species in the outback, Homo sapiens. The male of this species has a massive brain that he uses to hunt for cold beer. (Laughter) And when he finds one, he drains it, and sometimes throws the bottle into the outback. Now, as it happens, these bottles are dimpled, glossy, and just the right shade of brown to tickle the fancy of these beetles. The males swarm all over the bottles trying to mate. They lose all interest in the real females. Classic case of the male leaving the female for the bottle. (Laughter) (Applause) The species almost went extinct. Australia had to change its bottles to save its beetles. (Laughter) Now, the males had successfully found females for thousands, perhaps millions of years. It looked like they saw reality as it is, but apparently not. Evolution had given them a hack. A female is anything dimpled, glossy and brown, the bigger the better. (Laughter) Even when crawling all over the bottle, the male couldn't discover his mistake. Now, you might say, beetles, sure, they're very simple creatures, but surely not mammals. Mammals don't rely on tricks. Well, I won't dwell on this, but you get the idea. (Laughter) So this raises an important technical question: Does natural selection really favor seeing reality as it is? Fortunately, we don't have to wave our hands and guess; evolution is a mathematically precise theory. We can use the equations of evolution to check this out. We can have various organisms in artificial worlds compete and see which survive and which thrive, which sensory systems are more fit. A key notion in those equations is fitness. Consider this steak: What does this steak do for the fitness of an animal? Well, for a hungry lion looking to eat, it enhances fitness. For a well-fed lion looking to mate, it doesn't enhance fitness. And for a rabbit in any state, it doesn't enhance fitness, so fitness does depend on reality as it is, yes, but also on the organism, its state and its action. Fitness is not the same thing as reality as it is, and it's fitness, and not reality as it is, that figures centrally in the equations of evolution. So, in my lab, we have run hundreds of thousands of evolutionary game simulations with lots of different randomly chosen worlds and organisms that compete for resources in those worlds. Some of the organisms see all of the reality, others see just part of the reality, and some see none of the reality, only fitness. Who wins? Well, I hate to break it to you, but perception of reality goes extinct. In almost every simulation, organisms that see none of reality but are just tuned to fitness drive to extinction all the organisms that perceive reality as it is. So the bottom line is, evolution does not favor veridical, or accurate perceptions. Those perceptions of reality go extinct. Now, this is a bit stunning. How can it be that not seeing the world accurately gives us a survival advantage? That is a bit counterintuitive. But remember the jewel beetle. The jewel beetle survived for thousands, perhaps millions of years, using simple tricks and hacks. What the equations of evolution are telling us is that all organisms, including us,  are in the same boat as the jewel beetle. We do not see reality as it is. We're shaped with tricks and hacks that keep us alive. Still, we need some help with our intuitions. How can not perceiving reality as it is be useful? Well, fortunately, we have a very helpful metaphor: the desktop interface on your computer. Consider that blue icon for a TED Talk that you're writing. Now, the icon is blue and rectangular and in the lower right corner of the desktop. Does that mean that the text file itself in the computer is blue, rectangular, and in the lower right-hand corner of the computer? Of course not. Anyone who thought that misinterprets the purpose of the interface. It's not there to show you the reality of the computer. In fact, it's there to hide that reality. You don't want to know about the diodes and resistors and all the megabytes of software. If you had to deal with that, you could never write your text file or edit your photo. So the idea is that evolution has given us an interface that hides reality and guides adaptive behavior. Space and time, as you perceive them right now, are your desktop. Physical objects are simply icons in that desktop. There's an obvious objection. Hoffman, if you think that train coming down the track at 200 MPH is just an icon of your desktop, why don't you step in front of it? And after you're gone, and your theory with you, we'll know that there's more to that train than just an icon. Well, I wouldn't step in front of that train for the same reason that I wouldn't carelessly drag that icon to the trash can: not because I take the icon literally — the file is not literally blue or rectangular — but I do take it seriously. I could lose weeks of work. Similarly, evolution has shaped us with perceptual symbols that are designed to keep us alive. We'd better take them seriously. If you see a snake, don't pick it up. If you see a cliff, don't jump off. They're designed to keep us safe, and we should take them seriously. That does not mean that we should take them literally. That's a logical error. Another objection: There's nothing really new here. Physicists have told us for a long time that the metal of that train looks solid but really it's mostly empty space with microscopic particles zipping around. There's nothing new here. Well, not exactly. It's like saying, I know that that blue icon on the desktop is not the reality of the computer, but if I pull out my trusty magnifying glass and look really closely, I see little pixels, and that's the reality of the computer. Well, not really — you're still on the desktop, and that's the point. Those microscopic particles are still in space and time: they're still in the user interface. So I'm saying something far more radical than those physicists. Finally, you might object, look, we all see the train, therefore none of us constructs the train. But remember this example. In this example, we all see a cube, but the screen is flat, so the cube that you see is the cube that you construct. We all see a cube because we all, each one of us, constructs the cube that we see. The same is true of the train. We all see a train because we each see the train that we construct, and the same is true of all physical objects. We're inclined to think that perception is like a window on reality as it is. The theory of evolution is telling us that this is an incorrect interpretation of our perceptions. Instead, reality is more like a 3D desktop that's designed to hide the complexity of the real world and guide adaptive behavior. Space as you perceive it is your desktop. Physical objects are just the icons in that desktop. We used to think that the Earth is flat because it looks that way. Then we thought that the Earth is the unmoving center of reality because it looks that way. We were wrong. We had misinterpreted our perceptions. Now we believe that spacetime and objects are the nature of reality as it is. The theory of evolution is telling us that once again, we're wrong. We're misinterpreting the content of our perceptual experiences. There's something that exists when you don't look, but it's not spacetime and physical objects. It's as hard for us to let go of spacetime and objects as it is for the jewel beetle to let go of its bottle. Why? Because we're blind to our own blindnesses. But we have an advantage over the jewel beetle: our science and technology. By peering through the lens of a telescope we discovered that the Earth is not the unmoving center of reality, and by peering through the lens of the theory of evolution we discovered that spacetime and objects are not the nature of reality. When I have a perceptual experience that I describe as a red tomato, I am interacting with reality, but that reality is not a red tomato and is nothing like a red tomato. Similarly, when I have an experience that I describe as a lion or a steak, I'm interacting with reality, but that reality is not a lion or a steak. And here's the kicker: When I have a perceptual experience that I describe as a brain, or neurons, I am interacting with reality, but that reality is not a brain or neurons and is nothing like a brain or neurons. And that reality, whatever it is, is the real source of cause and effect in the world — not brains, not neurons. Brains and neurons have no causal powers. They cause none of our perceptual experiences, and none of our behavior. Brains and neurons are a species-specific set of symbols, a hack. What does this mean for the mystery of consciousness? Well, it opens up new possibilities. For instance, perhaps reality is some vast machine that causes our conscious experiences. I doubt this, but it's worth exploring. Perhaps reality is some vast, interacting network of conscious agents, simple and complex, that cause each other's conscious experiences. Actually, this isn't as crazy an idea as it seems, and I'm currently exploring it. But here's the point: Once we let go of our massively intuitive but massively false assumption about the nature of reality, it opens up new ways to think about life's greatest mystery. I bet that reality will end up turning out to be more fascinating and unexpected than we've ever imagined. The theory of evolution presents us with the ultimate dare: Dare to recognize that perception is not about seeing truth, it's about having kids. And by the way, even this TED is just in your head. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: If that's really you there, thank you. So there's so much from this. I mean, first of all, some people may just be profoundly depressed at the thought that, if evolution does not favor reality, I mean, doesn't that to some extent undermine all our endeavors here, all our ability to think that we can think the truth, possibly even including your own theory, if you go there? Donald Hoffman: Well, this does not stop us from a successful science. What we have is one theory that turned out to be false, that perception is like reality and reality is like our perceptions. That theory turns out to be false. Okay, throw that theory away. That doesn't stop us from now postulating all sorts of other theories about the nature of reality, so it's actually progress to recognize that one of our theories was false. So science continues as normal. There's no problem here. CA: So you think it's possible — (Laughter) — This is cool, but what you're saying I think is it's possible that evolution can still get you to reason. DH: Yes. Now that's a very, very good point. The evolutionary game simulations that I showed were specifically about perception, and they do show that our perceptions have been shaped not to show us reality as it is, but that does not mean the same thing about our logic or mathematics. We haven't done these simulations, but my bet is that we'll find that there are some selection pressures for our logic and our mathematics to be at least in the direction of truth. I mean, if you're like me, math and logic is not easy. We don't get it all right, but at least the selection pressures are not uniformly away from true math and logic. So I think that we'll find that we have to look at each cognitive faculty one at a time and see what evolution does to it. What's true about perception may not be true about math and logic. CA: I mean, really what you're proposing is a kind of modern-day Bishop Berkeley interpretation of the world: consciousness causes matter, not the other way around. DH: Well, it's slightly different than Berkeley. Berkeley thought that, he was a deist, and he thought that the ultimate nature of reality is God and so forth, and I don't need to go where Berkeley's going, so it's quite a bit different from Berkeley. I call this conscious realism. It's actually a very different approach. CA: Don, I could literally talk with you for hours, and I hope to do that. Thanks so much for that. DH: Thank you. (Applause)"	"我愛各種玄妙的東西並且被一个科學界深奧的未解之謎深深吸引大概因爲它切身攸關吧。它是關於我們是誰。我忍不住要探個究竟。 這是什麽迷呢？是這两者的關係：你的大腦和你的有意識的體驗。例如你嘗到巧克力味道的體驗或天鹅绒的手感。 這個迷倒不是新的。早在1868年，Thomas Huxley 寫到：""爲啥一些妙不可言的東西如人的清醒意識其形成竟是來自刺激性神經組織，實在莫名其妙，跟阿拉丁擦擦他的油燈精靈就出現了一樣無法解釋""。Huxley熟知大腦的活動和有意識體驗是有關係的，他衹是不知道原因是何。在其時代的科學界裡這是個迷。 Huxley之後的這些年，科學界對大腦活動有了很多的發現。但是兩者的關係即大腦活動和有意識的體驗仍然是個迷。爲何？爲何我們還未搞懂多少這個迷？有專家認爲這迷是解不了的了因我們缺乏必要的概念和智慧。我們不指望猴子去排解量子力學的問題，同樣，我們也不能指望自己的物種去化解這個迷。我不同意這説法。我樂觀多了。我認爲我們衹是用了個錯誤的假設而已。糾正了假設後，我們很可能就能把這迷解了。今天，我想和大家說一下這個假設是什麽，爲何它是錯誤的，我們可以怎樣加以糾正。 先來個問題：我們眼睛看見的，是現實的真貌嗎？我睜大雙眼就有這體驗：一公尺外有個紅色的番茄。結果是，我相信在現實中，有個紅色的番茄在一公尺之外。然後我閉上雙眼，我的體驗就變了是一片灰色的面了。這意味著在現實中，仍有這麽一個紅番茄在一公尺之外嗎？是的。但這念頭會不會是錯的呢？會不會我錯誤地詮釋了知覺的實質呢？ 我們有過錯誤地詮釋了知覺的先例。我們曾以爲地球是扁的，以爲它看起來就是扁的。Pythagorus發現我們相錯了。然後我們又以爲地球是宇宙的固定的中心。也是因爲當時看來就那樣。Copernicus 和 Galileo 再次發現我們又錯了。 Galileo 接著琢磨是否我們錯誤地詮釋了自己的體驗，在其他方面出錯了。他寫到：""我認爲味道、氣味、顔色等等是存在於意識當中的。正是如此，如果活體沒有了，所有這些特質也會化爲烏有了。"" 這可是個大膽的斷言。Galileo會不會是對的呢？我們會不會真的非常錯誤地詮釋自己的體驗呢？當今的科學研究能對此有什麽看法呢？ 神經科學們說我們的大腦的三分之一都有用在視覺上面。我們衹要單單地睜開眼睛環視一下這講座間，數億神經元和數萬億突觸就已經被用上了。 這稍微有點意想不到。因爲衹從視覺這點來説，我們衹把當作是照相機。它拍個照把現實客觀地呈現出來。我們視覺的一部分確實像一照相機：眼睛有個晶體能調焦把物像聚焦到眼睛後部。後部有1億3千萬個光感受器，因此我們的眼睛就像個1億3千萬像素的攝影機。但是這個解釋不了數億神經元和數萬億突觸在視覺上到底起什麽作用。這些神經元到底在做什麽呢？ 神經科學家們說它們在實時地生造我們正目睹著的各種形狀、物體、顔色和行進中的東西。就像是我們衹是在如實地抓拍這個房間。但事實是，我們看見的所有東西都是構建出來的。我們不是一次性地構建整個物界。我們衹在需要的當時一刻構建。 有很多演示可以非常有力地驗證我們看見的東西都是構造出來的。我做兩個演示給大家看看。演示一，你看見些紅色的圓形每個都有缺口的。如果我把這些圓形稍微轉動一下，馬上，你看見的是個立體方塊從螢幕上脫穎而出。別忘了，這螢幕是平的哦。所以你體驗到的這個三度空間方塊一定是你構造出來的。 演示二，你看見些發光的藍條子邊邊挺鋒利的，不停地在一個很多點的面上移動。事實上呢，那些點沒動過。我衹是一帧一帧地轉換小點的顔色從藍轉成黑，或從黑轉成藍。當我轉得快的時候，你的視覺系統就生造了發光的藍條子，邊邊挺鋒利的，不斷行進著。有很多這樣的例子的。這裏衹是兩個演示了你在構建所見東西。 神經科學家們還說了更進一步的。他們說我們重新構建了現實。當我有一項可以被説成是紅色的番茄的體驗時這體驗其實是你如實地構建了一個真的紅色番茄的屬性，即使我不看著的時候它也存在的屬性。 現在要問了，爲何神經科學家說我們不單衹構建，我們還重新構建？標準論點都是屬於進化理論的。我們的祖先當中誰視力更精確誰就比視力沒那麽精確的更有競爭優勢，於是他們有更大機會傳宗接代。我們是那些視力更精確的祖先的後代，故可以很有信心地相信在正常情況下，我們的知覺是精確的。這個在標準課本都能看到。例如有本課本說：""從進化角度說，視覺有用恰恰是因爲它精確無疑。“即是說，精確的知覺是更優良的知覺。它能給你生存的優勢。 問題是，這説法正確嗎？是對進化理論的正確的詮釋嗎？我們可以先看看兩個自然界的例子。 澳洲的珠甲蟲樣子帶點、帶亮澤、呈棕色。雌性的不能飛。雄性的能飛、四處尋找魅力無限的雌蟲。每找到一隻，牠就騎其上，與之交配。在荒野上還有另一個物種，叫智人類。這物種的男性腦袋奇大，都用在四處找冰鎮啤酒的功夫上了。(笑聲)每找到一瓶他就喝一瓶，有時喝完就把瓶子撩荒野上了。無巧不成書，這些瓶子也是樣子帶點、帶亮澤、而棕色的色度也剛好能讓這些珠甲蟲幻想連天的。雄甲蟲見啤酒瓶就騎上上下下要與之交配。如是，牠們對真格的雌蟲倒沒丁點兒興趣了。典型的雄性爲了酒瓶疏遠了雌性的案例。(笑聲)(掌聲)該物種幾乎絕種。澳洲得把瓶子改了才挽救了珠甲蟲。(笑聲)那些雄蟲幾千年來都能準確無誤的找到雌蟲，很可能幾百萬年都如此。似乎牠們見到的就是現實的本貌。很顯然，事實並不如此。進化讓牠們習得的是一項行技而已。雌甲蟲就是帶點的、帶亮澤的、呈棕色、越大越好。(笑聲)哪怕把整個啤酒瓶都爬完了，那雄蟲就是沒法知道自己錯那兒。 也許你會說，甲蟲嘛，當然啦，簡單低等，哺乳動物肯定不會。哺乳動物不需依賴伎倆。這我就不多説了，你們懂的。(笑聲) 因此這就引出一重要的技術上的問題：自然篩選真的偏袒所見如實嗎？幸好，我們無需揮舞雙手東猜西猜；進化論是一項數學根據精確的理論。我們可以用進化等式來探究一下。我們可以把不同生物放到放到多個人造物界裏競爭，看看誰生存下來，誰茁壯成長，哪一個感官系統更優良。 這裏面各個等式中最關鍵的元素是體良。看看這枚牛排：對於某動物的體良來説這牛排起什麽作用？對於一隻正在尋食的獅子來説，它能促進體良。對於一喫飽了的、衹想交配的獅子呢，它不會促進體良。對於一隻任何狀態下的兔子來説呢，它不促進體良。如此，體良是有賴於所見如實，對的，但同時也有賴於有機體本身、其狀態及行動。體良和能見現實真貌不是一碼事。是體良，而不是現實真貌，占據了進化論等式的中心位置。 在我的實驗室裏，我們操運過成百上千個進化游戲模擬，配有衆多不同的隨機選出的物界，各物界裏各種有機體進行競爭，占獲資源。一部分有機體能看見全部物界的真貌，其他有機體則衹看到現實的一部分，還有的對現實的真貌熟視無睹，衹看見體良一樣東西。誰贏了呢? 説來你也許不信，能看見現實真貌的都絕種了。在每一個模擬中，對現實熟視無睹的，衹單單看到體良的那些有機體把能看到現實真貌的有機體都趕到絕種了。説到底，進化既不眷顧高低向知覺，也不眷顧精密知覺。能看得見現實真貌的都絕種了。 好吧，這觀察有點驚人。不能精確看到現實真貌爲何能使我們有生存的優勢？這有點反直覺。但別忘了剛才講到的珠甲蟲。珠甲蟲幾千年，可能幾百萬年都活下來了，靠的是簡單的片長薄技。進化制衡向我們顯示的是所有的有機體，包括我們，和珠甲蟲面對的是一樣的。我們看見的不是現實的真貌。我們是由那些讓我們活下來的片長薄技塑造出來的。 當然，我們也需要依靠直覺的某些幫助。爲何不看見現實的真貌會如此有用呢？很慶幸，我們有個非常得力的比方：你電腦上的桌面界面。我們來看那個代表你正在寫的TED Talk稿子的藍色的圖標。圖標是藍色的，成矩形處在桌面的右下角。這意味著電腦裏面的文字文件就是藍色的、矩形的、就處在電腦裏的右手邊角落嗎？當然不是。誰要是認爲是的話，就是誤釋了界面的目的了。界面的目的不是向你呈現電腦的真貌。事實是，界面是爲你遮蓋電腦的真貌。你並不想知道二極管、電阻器、軟件的兆字節之類的。要是得跟這些打交道的話，你永遠也沒法寫作文件，或編輯圖片了。這樣説來，進化給我們有個界面的意義是把現實的真貌隱藏起來，並指引適應性行爲。你目前知覺到的空間和時間，就如同你的電腦桌面。實質物體也就衹不過是桌面的圖標而已。 有個顯而易見的反駁。Hoffman, 如果你認爲對面開來那輛時速200英里的火車衹不過是電腦桌面的圖標，不見你一躍而上擋前面去？等你沒命了，和你的理論一起埋了，我們就知道那輛火車不單單衹是圖標了。呵，我不會上去擋著那火車，正猶如我不會掉以輕心地把那圖標拖到回收站。倒不是因爲我把那個圖標當成是實物文檔——那份文件並非真的是藍色的、或矩形的 ——而是我會鄭重對待那個圖標。否則我會丟失一個星期工作的内容。同樣地，進化把我們塑造成能正確對待知覺上的代符的人以得以生存下來。所以我們最好不要對其掉以輕心。看見蛇了，別撿起來。看見懸崖了，別往下跳。這些都是爲了我們的安全，我們應該慎重其事。這不意味著我們應該把代符與事物等同起來。否則就犯邏輯錯誤了。 另外一個反駁：你説的也不是什麽新發現。物理學家們很早前就說那輛火車的鐵皮看起來堅實，實質是大體積空間裡有很多微觀粒子繞一起罷了。不是什麽新發現。呵，不全對。這等於說，我知道那電腦裏面的藍色圖標不是電腦的真實面貌，如果我用個精確放大鏡好好地靠近看清楚，我會看見細小的像素，那就是電腦的真貌啊。呵，也不全對。你仍舊沒離開桌面本身。此爲問題的中心點了。那些微觀粒子仍然存在於空間和時間裏面：它們仍舊在用戶的界面。而我在說的比物理學家們說的有更大顛覆性。 最後一個反駁：我們大家都看見那輛火車，那火車不是我們當中任一位構建出來的。不過，還記得這例子吧。這裏，我們都看見一立體方塊，但螢幕是平的。因此你看見的方塊是你構建出來的。我們都看見一個方塊。因爲這方塊是我們，每一個人，構建出來的。這跟我們建構了那輛火車是一樣的。我們都看見一兩火車，因爲我們每位都看見自己構建出來的火車。我們看見的所有物理實體都緣於這個道理。 我們都傾向於認爲知覺就像個窗口，從那能看到現實的真貌。而進化的理論告訴我們那是錯誤地詮釋了我們的知覺。其實，現實更如同是個3D的桌面，目的是把現實的複雜性遮蓋起來，同時爲我們的適應性行爲做指引。你目睹的空間就是你的桌面。物理實體是桌面上的圖標。 我們以前認爲地球是扁的，因爲看起來是扁的。我們又曾認爲地球是現實世界的不移的中心，因爲看起來如此。我們都錯了。我們都曾經錯誤地詮釋過我們的知覺。現在呢，我們認爲時空和物體就是現實界的真貌。進化的理論再次告訴我們我們又錯了。我們錯誤地詮釋了知覺體驗的内容。世上有些東西是你不看著也一樣存在的，不過不是時空和物理實體。我們老繞不過時空和物體。如同那些珠甲蟲繞不過自己看上的啤酒瓶。爲何繞不過？我們看見自己的看不見自己的盲點。然而，相比於珠甲蟲，我們有個優勢：即我們的科學和技術。透過望遠鏡，我們發現地球不是現實的不移中心。透過進化理論的望遠鏡，我們發現時空和物體不是現實的實質。當我有被描述爲一個紅番茄這樣知覺體驗時，我是在和現實活動。但現實不是那個紅番茄，也和紅番茄沒有絲毫相似之處。同樣地，當我有一個被描述爲獅子或牛排的體驗時，我是在和現實互動。但現實不是獅子或牛排。其實要説的是這個：當我有一個被描寫爲大腦，或神經元的體驗時，我其實是在和現實互動了，而現實不是大腦或神經元，也和大腦或神經元沒有絲毫相似之處。現實 ——- 不管究竟爲何物，才是真正的起因和結果的根源，物界的根源，並非大腦，也非神經元。大腦和神經元沒有導因之力。兩者都不是導致我們知覺體驗的根源，也不導致我們行爲的根源。大腦和神經元是物種各自獨特的代符，一種符術。 那麽，對於人意識的這個迷，這結論意味著什麽呢？意味著多個新的可能性。例如，現實可能是個龐大的機器，是我們的有意識體驗的成因。這個我很懷疑，不過值得探討。現實可能是某種龐大的、相互間互動的意識代理體的網絡，有簡單的有複雜的，在導致各自之間的意識體驗。聽起來荒誕，但事實上並不如此。這是我目前正在探索的。 論點在這：一旦我們離棄由完全憑直覺的但萬分虛假的慣想構成的所謂現實真貌，就能開拓很多嶄新的探討生命最深奧的迷的方式方法。我打賭，現實一定會是一個更引人入勝的、更出乎意料的東西，完全超乎我們的想象的。 進化理論給了我們最終極的挑戰：挑戰我們去肯認知覺不是用來窺見真相的，是引導我們繁衍後代而已。順帶一句，這個TED字也衹是你的大腦使然而已。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲) C Anderson: 如果那站著的真是你，該謝天謝地。這裏講的真得車載斗量。首先，有些人會深陷抑鬱的啊，——- 一旦想到進化不優待能見現實真貌。那樣的話，不等於破壞了我們的心機了嗎，破壞了我們一向認爲的自己能思考真理的能力很可能還包括你自己的理論呢，假如那樣想下去？ D Hoffman: 呵，這不會攔住我們在科學上頻有建樹。這衹不過是發現了一項理論是錯了的而已。錯在認爲知覺就是現實，現實與我們的知覺無二。那個理論現在看來錯了。把它摒棄就是了。但不等於會阻礙從此可以假設其他類別的理論，其他現實實質的理論。這其實是進步來的，認識到我們的理論是錯了的。科學照常發展。並無大礙。 Anderson: 你認爲沒事？(笑聲)挺瀟灑的。根據你說的，我認爲，進化還是有可能使你學會辯因的。 Hoffman: 對。非常到位的一點。我展示的各種進化游戲模擬是專爲知覺而設的，它們均顯示我們的知覺被塑造成不是爲了能看見現實真貌的。但不等於在邏輯或數學方面也是如此。我們還未做那方面的模擬。但我相信會發現某些篩選壓力會是在邏輯和數學方面起碼是向著真理的方向發展的。數學和邏輯都不容易掌握。我們不能全搞對，但起碼篩選的壓力沒有呈現與數學及邏輯全綫背道而馳。我認爲我們將要祥觀每一項認知能力逐項研究，看看進化對其做是什麽影響。能解釋知覺的不一定能解釋數學和邏輯。 Anderson: 你的論題提出的相當於現代Bishop Berkeley對物界的詮釋：意識引致物質，不是物質引致意識。 Hoffman: 和Berkeley的少有差異。神論者轉自然論者Berkeley 認爲最終來説現實是上帝等等，而我不需要走Berkeley那條路。所以和Berkeley是有頗大異處的。我的理論叫意識真實論,一項非常不同的探究方法。 Anderson: Don，我倆可以談上幾個小時。希望能做到。 非常感謝。Hoffman: 謝謝。(掌聲)"
