Talk	en	zh-tw
doris_kearns_goodwin_on_learning_from_past_presidents	"So, indeed, I have spent my life looking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive. Waking up with Abraham Lincoln in the morning, thinking of Franklin Roosevelt when I went to bed at night. But when I try and think about what I've learned about the meaning in life, my mind keeps wandering back to a seminar that I took when I was a graduate student at Harvard with the great psychologist Erik Erikson. He taught us that the richest and fullest lives attempt to achieve an inner balance between three realms: work, love and play. And that to pursue one realm to the disregard of the other, is to open oneself to ultimate sadness in older age. Whereas to pursue all three with equal dedication, is to make possible a life filled not only with achievement, but with serenity. So since I tell stories, let me look back on the lives of two of the presidents I've studied to illustrate this point — Abraham Lincoln and Lyndon Johnson. As for that first sphere of work, I think what Abraham Lincoln's life suggests is that fierce ambition is a good thing. He had a huge ambition. But it wasn't simply for office or power or celebrity or fame — what it was for was to accomplish something worthy enough in life so that he could make the world a little better place for his having lived in it. Even as a child, it seemed, Lincoln dreamed heroic dreams. He somehow had to escape that hard-scrabble farm from which he was born. No schooling was possible for him, except a few weeks here, a few weeks there. But he read books in every spare moment he could find. It was said when he got a copy of the King James Bible or ""Aesop's Fables,"" he was so excited he couldn't sleep. He couldn't eat. The great poet Emily Dickinson once said, ""There is no frigate like a book to take us lands away."" How true for Lincoln. Though he never would travel to Europe, he went with Shakespeare's kings to merry England, he went with Lord Byron's poetry to Spain and Portugal. Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings. But there were so many losses in his early life that he was haunted by death. His mother died when he was only nine years old; his only sister, Sarah, in childbirth a few years later; and his first love, Ann Rutledge, at the age of 22. Moreover, when his mother lay dying, she did not hold out for him the hope that they would meet in an afterworld. She simply said to him, ""Abraham, I'm going away from you now, and I shall never return."" As a result he became obsessed with the thought that when we die our life is swept away — dust to dust. But only as he grew older did he develop a certain consolation from an ancient Greek notion — but followed by other cultures as well — that if you could accomplish something worthy in your life, you could live on in the memory of others. Your honor and your reputation would outlive your earthly existence. And that worthy ambition became his lodestar. It carried him through the one significant depression that he suffered when he was in his early 30s. Three things had combined to lay him low. He had broken his engagement with Mary Todd, not certain he was ready to marry her, but knowing how devastating it was to her that he did that. His one intimate friend, Joshua Speed, was leaving Illinois to go back to Kentucky because Speed's father had died. And his political career in the state legislature was on a downward slide. He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal. They took all knives and razors and scissors from his room. And his great friend Speed went to his side and said, ""Lincoln, you must rally or you will die."" He said that, ""I would just as soon die right now, but I've not yet done anything to make any human being remember that I have lived."" So fueled by that ambition, he returned to the state legislature. He eventually won a seat in Congress. He then ran twice for the Senate, lost twice. ""Everyone is broken by life,"" Ernest Hemingway once said, ""but some people are stronger in the broken places."" So then he surprised the nation with an upset victory for the presidency over three far more experienced, far more educated, far more celebrated rivals. And then when he won the general election, he stunned the nation even more by appointing each of these three rivals into his Cabinet. It was an unprecedented act at the time because everybody thought, ""He'll look like a figurehead compared to these people."" They said, ""Why are you doing this, Lincoln?"" He said, ""Look, these are the strongest and most able men in the country. The country is in peril. I need them by my side."" But perhaps my old friend Lyndon Johnson might have put it in less noble fashion: ""Better to have your enemies inside the tent pissing out, than outside the tent pissing in."" (Laughter) But it soon became clear that Abraham Lincoln would emerge as the undisputed captain of this unruly team. For each of them soon came to understand that he possessed an unparalleled array of emotional strengths and political skills that proved far more important than the thinness of his external résumé. For one thing, he possessed an uncanny ability to empathize with and to think about other peoples' point of view. He repaired injured feelings that might have escalated into permanent hostility. He shared credit with ease, assumed responsibility for the failure of his subordinates, constantly acknowledged his errors and learned from his mistakes. These are the qualities we should be looking for in our candidates in 2008. (Applause) He refused to be provoked by petty grievances. He never submitted to jealousy or brooded over perceived slights. And he expressed his unshakeable convictions in everyday language, in metaphors, in stories. And with a beauty of language — almost as if the Shakespeare and the poetry he had so loved as a child had worked their way into his very soul. In 1863, when the Emancipation Proclamation was signed, he brought his old friend, Joshua Speed, back to the White House, and remembered that conversation of decades before, when he was so sad. And he, pointing to the Proclamation, said, ""I believe, in this measure, my fondest hopes will be realized."" But as he was about to put his signature on the Proclamation his own hand was numb and shaking because he had shaken a thousand hands that morning at a New Year's reception. So he put the pen down. He said, ""If ever my soul were in an act, it is in this act. But if I sign with a shaking hand, posterity will say, 'He hesitated.'"" So he waited until he could take up the pen and sign with a bold and clear hand. But even in his wildest dreams, Lincoln could never have imagined how far his reputation would reach. I was so thrilled to find an interview with the great Russian writer, Leo Tolstoy, in a New York newspaper in the early 1900s. And in it, Tolstoy told of a trip that he'd recently made to a very remote area of the Caucasus, where there were only wild barbarians, who had never left this part of Russia. Knowing that Tolstoy was in their midst, they asked him to tell stories of the great men of history. So he said, ""I told them about Napoleon and Alexander the Great and Frederick the Great and Julius Caesar, and they loved it. But before I finished, the chief of the barbarians stood up and said, 'But wait, you haven't told us about the greatest ruler of them all. We want to hear about that man who spoke with a voice of thunder, who laughed like the sunrise, who came from that place called America, which is so far from here, that if a young man should travel there, he would be an old man when he arrived. Tell us of that man. Tell us of Abraham Lincoln.'"" He was stunned. He told them everything he could about Lincoln. And then in the interview he said, ""What made Lincoln so great? Not as great a general as Napoleon, not as great a statesman as Frederick the Great."" But his greatness consisted, and historians would roundly agree, in the integrity of his character and the moral fiber of his being. So in the end that powerful ambition that had carried Lincoln through his bleak childhood had been realized. That ambition that had allowed him to laboriously educate himself by himself, to go through that string of political failures and the darkest days of the war. His story would be told. So as for that second sphere, not of work, but of love — encompassing family, friends and colleagues — it, too, takes work and commitment. The Lyndon Johnson that I saw in the last years of his life, when I helped him on his memoirs, was a man who had spent so many years in the pursuit of work, power and individual success, that he had absolutely no psychic or emotional resources left to get him through the days once the presidency was gone. My relationship with him began on a rather curious level. I was selected as a White House Fellow when I was 24 years old. We had a big dance at the White House. President Johnson did dance with me that night. Not that peculiar — there were only three women out of the 16 White House Fellows. But he did whisper in my ear that he wanted me to work directly for him in the White House. But it was not to be that simple. For in the months leading up to my selection, like many young people, I'd been active in the anti-Vietnam War movement, and had written an article against Lyndon Johnson, which unfortunately came out in The New Republic two days after the dance in the White House. (Laugher) And the theme of the article was how to remove Lyndon Johnson from power. (Laughter) So I was certain he would kick me out of the program. But instead, surprisingly, he said, ""Oh, bring her down here for a year, and if I can't win her over, no one can."" So I did end up working for him in the White House. Eventually accompanied him to his ranch to help him on those memoirs, never fully understanding why he'd chosen me to spend so many hours with. I like to believe it was because I was a good listener. He was a great storyteller. Fabulous, colorful, anecdotal stories. There was a problem with these stories, however, which I later discovered, which is that half of them weren't true. But they were great, nonetheless. (Laughter) So I think that part of his attraction for me was that I loved listening to his tall tales. But I also worried that part of it was that I was then a young woman. And he had somewhat of a minor league womanizing reputation. So I constantly chatted to him about boyfriends, even when I didn't have any at all. Everything was working perfectly, until one day he said he wanted to discuss our relationship. Sounded very ominous when he took me nearby to the lake, conveniently called Lake Lyndon Baines Johnson. And there was wine and cheese and a red-checked tablecloth — all the romantic trappings. And he started out, ""Doris, more than any other woman I have ever known ... "" And my heart sank. And then he said, ""You remind me of my mother."" (Laughter) It was pretty embarrassing, given what was going on in my mind. But I must say, the older I've gotten, the more I realize what an incredible privilege it was to have spent so many hours with this aging lion of a man. A victor in a thousand contests, three great civil rights laws, Medicare, aid to education. And yet, roundly defeated in the end by the war in Vietnam. And because he was so sad and so vulnerable, he opened up to me in ways he never would have had I known him at the height of his power — sharing his fears, his sorrows and his worries. And I'd like to believe that the privilege fired within me the drive to understand the inner person behind the public figure, that I've tried to bring to each of my books since then. But it also brought home to me the lessons which Erik Erikson had tried to instill in all of us about the importance of finding balance in life. For on the surface, Lyndon Johnson should have had everything in the world to feel good about in those last years, in the sense that he had been elected to the presidency; he had all the money he needed to pursue any leisure activity he wanted; he owned a spacious ranch in the countryside, a penthouse in the city, sailboats, speedboats. He had servants to answer any whim, and he had a family who loved him deeply. And yet, years of concentration solely on work and individual success meant that in his retirement he could find no solace in family, in recreation, in sports or in hobbies. It was almost as if the hole in his heart was so large that even the love of a family, without work, could not fill it. As his spirits sagged, his body deteriorated until, I believe, he slowly brought about his own death. In those last years, he said he was so sad watching the American people look toward a new president and forgetting him. He spoke with immense sadness in his voice, saying maybe he should have spent more time with his children, and their children in turn. But it was too late. Despite all that power, all that wealth, he was alone when he finally died — his ultimate terror realized. So as for that third sphere of play, which he never had learned to enjoy, I've learned over the years that even this sphere requires a commitment of time and energy — enough so that a hobby, a sport, a love of music, or art, or literature, or any form of recreation, can provide true pleasure, relaxation and replenishment. So deep, for instance, was Abraham Lincoln's love of Shakespeare, that he made time to spend more than a hundred nights in the theater, even during those dark days of the war. He said, when the lights went down and a Shakespeare play came on, for a few precious hours he could imagine himself back in Prince Hal's time. But an even more important form of relaxation for him, that Lyndon Johnson never could enjoy, was a love of — somehow — humor, and feeling out what hilarious parts of life can produce as a sidelight to the sadness. He once said that he laughed so he did not cry, that a good story, for him, was better than a drop of whiskey. His storytelling powers had first been recognized when he was on the circuit in Illinois. The lawyers and the judges would travel from one county courthouse to the other, and when anyone was knowing Lincoln was in town, they would come from miles around to listen to him tell stories. He would stand with his back against a fire and entertain the crowd for hours with his winding tales. And all these stories became part of his memory bank, so he could call on them whenever he needed to. And they're not quite what you might expect from our marble monument. One of his favorite stories, for example, had to do with the Revolutionary War hero, Ethan Allen. And as Lincoln told the story, Mr. Allen went to Britain after the war. And the British people were still upset about losing the Revolution, so they decided to embarrass him a little bit by putting a huge picture of General Washington in the only outhouse, where he'd have to encounter it. They figured he'd be upset about the indignity of George Washington being in an outhouse. But he came out of the outhouse not upset at all. And so they said, ""Well, did you see George Washington in there?"" ""Oh, yes,"" he said, ""perfectly appropriate place for him."" ""What do you mean?"" they said. ""Well,"" he said, ""there's nothing to make an Englishman shit faster than the sight of General George Washington."" (Laughter) (Applause) So you can imagine, if you are in the middle of a tense cabinet meeting — and he had hundreds of these stories — you would have to relax. So between his nightly treks to the theater, his story telling, and his extraordinary sense of humor and his love of quoting Shakespeare and poetry, he found that form of play which carried him through his days. In my own life, I shall always be grateful for having found a form of play in my irrational love of baseball. Which allows me, from the beginning of spring training to the end of the fall, to have something to occupy my mind and heart other than my work. It all began when I was only six years old, and my father taught me that mysterious art of keeping score while listening to baseball games — so that when he went to work in New York during the day, I could record for him the history of that afternoon's Brooklyn Dodgers game. Now, when you're only six years old, and your father comes home every single night and listens to you — as I now realize that I, in excruciating detail, recounted every single play of every inning of the game that had just taken place that afternoon. But he made me feel I was telling him a fabulous story. It makes you think there's something magic about history to keep your father's attention. In fact, I'm convinced I learned the narrative art from those nightly sessions with my father. Because at first, I'd be so excited I would blurt out, ""The Dodgers won!"" or, ""The Dodgers lost!"" Which took much of the drama of this two-hour telling away. (Laughter) So I finally learned you had to tell a story from beginning to middle to end. I must say, so fervent was my love of the old Brooklyn Dodgers in those days that I had to confess in my first confession two sins that related to baseball. The first occurred because the Dodgers' catcher, Roy Campanella, came to my hometown of Rockville Centre, Long Island, just as I was in preparation for my first Holy Communion. And I was so excited — first person I'd ever see outside of Ebbets Field. But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church. When you are brought up as a Catholic, you think that if you ever set foot in a Protestant Church, you'll be struck dead at the threshold. So I went to my father in tears, ""What are we going to do?"" He said, ""Don't worry. He's speaking in a parish hall. We're sitting in folding chairs. He's talking about sportsmanship. It's not a sin."" But as I left that night, I was certain that somehow I'd traded the life of my everlasting soul for this one night with Roy Campanella. (Laughter) And there were no indulgences around that I could buy. So I had this sin on my soul when I went to my first confession. I told the priest right away. He said, ""No problem. It wasn't a religious service."" But then, unfortunately, he said, ""And what else, my child?"" And then came my second sin. I tried to sandwich it in between talking too much in church, wishing harm to others, being mean to my sisters. And he said, ""To whom did you wish harm?"" And I had to say that I wished that various New York Yankees players would break arms, legs and ankles — (Laughter) — so that the Brooklyn Dodgers could win their first World Series. He said, ""How often do you make these horrible wishes?"" And I had to say, every night when I said my prayers. (Laughter) So he said, ""Look, I'll tell you something. I love the Brooklyn Dodgers, as you do, but I promise you some day they will win fairly and squarely. You do not need to wish harm on others to make it happen."" ""Oh yes,"" I said. But luckily, my first confession — to a baseball-loving priest! (Laughter) Well, though my father died of a sudden heart attack when I was still in my 20s, before I had gotten married and had my three sons, I have passed his memory — as well as his love of baseball — on to my boys. Though when the Dodgers abandoned us to come to L.A., I lost faith in baseball until I moved to Boston and became an irrational Red Socks fan. And I must say, even now, when I sit with my sons with our season tickets, I can sometimes close my eyes against the sun and imagine myself, a young girl once more, in the presence of my father, watching the players of my youth on the grassy fields below: Jackie Robinson, Roy Campanella, Pee Wee Reese, and Duke Snider. I must say there is magic in these moments. When I open my eyes and I see my sons in the place where my father once sat, I feel an invisible loyalty and love linking my sons to the grandfather whose face they never had a chance to see, but whose heart and soul they have come to know through all the stories I have told. Which is why, in the end, I shall always be grateful for this curious love of history, allowing me to spend a lifetime looking back into the past. Allowing me to learn from these large figures about the struggle for meaning for life. Allowing me to believe that the private people we have loved and lost in our families, and the public figures we have respected in our history, just as Abraham Lincoln wanted to believe, really can live on, so long as we pledge to tell and to retell the stories of their lives. Thank you for letting me be that storyteller today. (Applause) Thank you."	"的確,我用我的一生精力來研究歷任總統們當他們還活在世上時的生涯軼事.早晨是亞伯罕‧林肯總統陪我起床,晚上當我要睡時,滿腦子還是富蘭克林 羅斯福總統 .但當我試著去探討我所懂的生命的意義時我的思緒一直回到我在哈佛大學研究所時所參加的一個由著名心理學家艾李克,艾里克森主持的研討會. 他教導我們,最富足最充足的生命是盡可能的使三個領域 -工作,感情和娛樂,達至內在平衡.所以只有專注在其中的一項而忽略其它兩項,這樣的行為會為老年時的自己帶來無法彌補的傷痛.但是如果致力使這三個領域都能達到平衡,那麼生命就會充滿成就和安寧. 既然現在我在說故事,所以讓我用我研究過的兩個以前總統的故事來證明這個論點.亞伯罕林肯和林頓詹森關於第一個領域—工作,我認為林肯的生命告訴我們抱著強烈野心是一件好事.林肯他有強烈巨大的野心.但這不單單是為了權力地位和名聲,而是他要在他生命中完成一些有意義的事情,為這世界因為有他而更美好. 即使還是個孩子時,林肯就抱著成為英雄的夢想他用盡方法從貧困的農場中逃脫.他沒有機會去上正式的學校,只有斷斷續續的在這裡學一點; 在那裡學一點.但是只要他有時間,他就閱讀.據說,當林肯有機會得到欽定英譯本聖經這本書或伊索預言這本書時,他常興奮的睡不著,也吃不下.偉大的詩人艾蜜莉.狄金生曾說過:""沒有任何交通工具像書一樣, 可以帶我們穿越時空到任何國土去旅遊.""對林肯而言這個形容是何等貼切! 即使他從未親身去過歐洲,但他的靈魂隨著莎士比亞書中的國王遊覽英國,他的心也跟隨著拜倫爵士的詩歌去過西班牙和葡萄牙.文學豐富了他的內在生命,使他掙脫超越了環境束縛.但是由於當他年幼時曾失去許多至親,所以死亡的陰影一直困擾著林肯.他的媽媽在他只有9歲時就去世,而他唯一的姐姐也在幾年後因難產而死亡.他的初戀情人-安若特里琦也在22歲死亡.更糟的是,當他的媽媽去世前並沒給小林肯任何的希望.說他們來世將會再見面她只是簡單的跟小林肯講""林肯, 我就要走了,從此不再回來.""因為這樣,林肯對死亡有一種無法釋懷的強烈迷惘.他深信人死如燈滅,像煙塵一樣散去, 全部都沒有了. 直到當他長大後,由於受到古希臘哲學思想影響,心靈上得到適當慰藉—當然也受到其他文化衝擊—這時他相信如果在世時能完成一些有意義的事情,那麼就可永遠活在人們的記憶中.那麼你的事蹟及好名聲就會萬古流傳這個信念變成林肯引路的北極星.這個信念讓他能在30歲時的嚴重的憂鬱症中走出來 這有三件事件使他情緒失控:他要求跟他的未婚妻瑪麗塔德解除婚約,並不確定他想跟瑪麗塔德結婚,雖然他知道這樣做對瑪麗是很殘酷的.他的摯友約書亞.斯皮德因為父殤而必須離開伊利諾州回到肯塔基去.還有他在州議會的政治生涯越來越黯淡.林肯是如此萎靡不振,所有的朋友都擔心他會自殺,他們拿走林肯房間裡所有的刀子刮鬍刀和剪刀.而且他的好朋友約書亞.斯皮德回來他的身邊對他説:""林肯你必須振作,否則你會死.""林肯回答:""我其實現在就可以去死,但我還沒有完成任何的事情,讓人們記得這世界曾經有我過."" 所以他從新燃起他的雄心壯志,回到州議員的政壇上.他後來終於贏得國會議員的位子,也參加兩屆的美國參議員競選但兩次都落選.大文毫海明威曾說:""每個人都會被生命折磨得千瘡百孔,但有人越挫越勇.""林肯最後以出乎意外的成功成為美國總統.當時他的三個對手都是比他更有從政經驗,更有學術地位,更有知名度.然後當選美國總統後,更令全國震驚的是他邀請這三個政敵加入他的內閣這是前所未有的做法, 而且大家都認為""跟那些內閣委員比起來,林肯像是有名無實的傀儡.""所以有人問林肯:""林肯為什麼你要這麼做?""他回答:""這三個人是我們國家目前最優秀,也是最有能力的人.我們的國家正瀕臨巨大考驗,我需要他們幫助我.""但如果用我的老朋友林登囧森比較通俗的話來形容這行情,那就是:寧可讓你的敵人進入你的帳篷,向外小便;也不要他們站在帳篷外向帳篷內射尿.笑聲 但很快的且清楚的顯示林肯毫無疑問的是這個難以駕馭團隊的領袖.因為每個人很快的意識到,林肯擁有無與倫比的熱忱及高超政治手段,比他非常薄弱的從政履歷來得重要舉例來說:他擁有冷靜且不可思議的能力,能很快的掌握及設身處在的瞭解別人不同的觀點.他修復了人們受傷的心靈,阻止可能繼續惡化成為無法逆轉的仇恨.他樂意跟大家分享功勳,也勇於承擔屬下失敗的責任.他總是承認錯誤並從自己的失誤中不斷學習及改進.這也是我們應該拿來檢視2008總統候選人必要的條件.掌聲他不被囉嗦無用的小感傷所干擾,他也從來沒有屈服於自己的嫉妒心或是被瑣碎的壞情緒所控制.他用淺顯易懂的語言,比喻或故事傳遞他那不可動搖的信念.就像他小時被莎士比亞和那些動人美麗的詩篇所影響一樣,他所說的話也深刻的影響打動每個人的心. 1863年林肯簽署解放奴隸宣言,那天他邀請他的老朋友約書亞.斯皮德來白宮觀禮.想起幾十年前當他極度憂鬱時跟斯皮德曾經談論過的往事,他於是指著解放奴隸宣言告訴他的老友:"" 我相信透過這宣言我最深切的希望終於可以實現""但是, 當他提起筆來簽署時,他的手又麻又酸而且一直顫抖.這當然是因為那天早晨的新年慶典時,他已和上千個人握手過.所以他把筆放下.他說, ""如果我曾經用我畢生的心力去完成一件事, 那這宣言就是那件事但是我如果簽字歪歪斜斜,那後代子孫就會說"" 林肯有所懷疑.""所以他等到手不再顫動時才清清楚楚堅定的簽下他的名字在宣言上.但是即使是林肯自己作夢也決不會想到他的名聲遠播的程度. 當我發現1900年代,俄羅斯大文學家托爾斯泰接受紐約時報的採訪新聞時,我十分震驚.根據採訪報導,托爾斯泰告訴記者,他剛去偏僻的高加索山區旅遊,在那地區只是低下及十分粗俗的鄉下人,他們從來沒人離開過那山區.知道大文學家托爾斯泰來到他們的鄉里,村落的人們就要求托爾斯泰講偉人的故事給他們聽.托爾斯泰說""我告訴那些鄉下人拿破侖,亞歷山大大帝, 腓特烈大帝和凱撒大帝的豐功偉業"" 村民都非常歡喜.可是當我正打算停止演說時,村落的酋長站起來並且說,""等一下, 你還沒告訴我們那最偉大領袖的故事.我們想聽那人的故事,就是他的聲音大如雷,他笑起來像旭日東升一樣,他是來自於一個遙遠的國家—美國的那人.而美國那地方非常遙遠.如果一個年輕人想去,當他到達時已經是老人了.告訴我們那個人的事跡! 告訴我們亞伯罕林肯的故事.""托爾斯泰非常驚訝,於是他盡其所能的講他所知道有關林肯的故事後來在訪談中他說:"" 是什麼使林肯那麼受歡迎?他並沒有拿破侖的軍事天賦,也不具有像腓特烈大帝一樣的政權手段""歷史學家都會一至公認,林肯的偉大著力點在於他千錘百鍊,超然寬闊胸懷的個人特質和堅定的道德信仰. 所以最後那些慘澹少年時的夢想想要活在人們記憶中的強烈企圖心終於實現.這樣的企圖心策勵他辛辛苦苦不懈的自我教育,鼓舞著他面對一連串的政壇失意及堅強走過戰爭時最黑暗的歲月.他的故事一定會千秋萬世永遠流傳.接著讓我們討論第二個領域,不是工作而是感情--包含家庭,朋友和同事—感情一樣須要經營和承諾.我在林頓.詹森總統死亡的前幾年幫他寫回憶錄,他就是一個花許多年歲精力一直追逐事業,權力和個人成就的例子.所以當他退休後, 他的精神上和感情上已沒有所剩來幫助他度過漫漫退休生涯. 我跟詹森總統的交情是始於一個很特別的情況,我24歲被選為白宮實習生.所以參加了正式大型歡迎舞會,那晚詹森總統跟我跳舞了.但那一點也不希奇!因為16個白宮實習生中只有3個女生.但是他確實對我小聲耳語,希望我未來在白宮直接聽命於他,為他工作.可是事情不是你想像的那麼單純.在我被選為白宮實習生的前幾個月,就像我們那代很多的年輕人一樣, 我是個活躍的反越戰者.甚至寫了一篇反詹森總統的文章而此篇文章不幸竟在白宮那場舞會後的兩天被刊登在新共和主義報上.笑聲!而且文章的主題是:如何要詹森總統辭職下台.笑聲我几乎可以確認我會被踢出白宮實習生的行列,但是非常令人訝異的是詹森總統說:""讓她為我工作一年,如果我無法改變她的想法, 沒有人能.""所以我最後留在白宮為他工作,然後等他退休後又跟他到他的農場幫他完成回憶錄.我從來都無法完全瞭解為什麼他選擇我為他長期工作? 我寧可相信我是個優良的傾聽者而他說故事的本領很高明.他的故事高潮跌起, 生動有趣,許多奇聞軼事.然而關於他的故事有一個困擾,那就是我後來發現有一半的情節是他自己虛構的.雖然如此, 他的故事真的很精采.笑聲所以我想我喜歡跟他在一起有一部份的原因是由於我喜歡聽他講古說今.那時我是個年輕的女孩,我也煩惱他不算少的沾花惹草壞名聲記錄.所以我不斷的跟他提我跟男朋友的交往情況,即使我根本沒有男朋友. 每件事情都進行的很順利,直到有一天他告訴我他想要討論我們之間的關係.感覺起來好像不太妙的樣子, 他帶我去附近的湖,就是以他命名的林頓.詹森湖.在湖邊鋪著紅格子的野餐巾上面有酒和起司—完全是羅曼蒂克的陷阱擺設.然後他開始說:""多麗絲,妳比我所有認識的女人都...""我的心開始往下沉.然後他說:"" 妳讓我想起我媽媽.""笑聲 實在是非常難為情,我腦袋裡竟在想他要向我求愛.但是我必須承認, 隨著年齡的增長,我越能體會這是一個難得的榮幸,能跟這個漸漸老去的強者共度那麼多時光.他在千百次的競賽中奪標,成功頒布了三個偉大的民權法案,老人健保和教育補助法.但是最後卻因為越戰而賠上政治前途.因為他太悲傷且太脆弱了.所以他以一種當他是權高位重時不可能發生的情況對我完全公開自己.讓我知道他的恐懼, 他的悲哀, 他的憂慮.我深信因為這個難得的榮幸, 點燃我的熱情並激勵我,驅動我去研究公眾人物的內心世界.我也把公眾人物的內心世界忠實的記錄在我所有的書中. 這也讓我更清楚深刻的瞭解艾李克,艾里克森試圖滲透灌溉我們的理念有關於達到生命平衡的重要性.從表面來看, 林頓.詹森在他的晚年應該擁有所有他所想要的.畢竟他曾當過總統,他擁有足夠的金錢可以過任何他想要的奢華的日子,他在鄉村擁有廣闊的農莊,在城市有一間豪宅 ,好幾輛帆船,快艇.他有眾多傭僕來完成他任何大大小小的要求,他也有一個深愛他的家庭. 但是,即使是這樣,經過這麼多年只專住於工作,和追逐個人成就.這代表在他退休的歲月裡他無法從家庭,娛樂,體育活動或興趣中尋到任何慰藉彷彿是有一個大洞在他心中,而這個洞太大,所以沒有了工作,即使是家庭的愛也無法填滿.隨著他的精神狀況越來越萎糜不振,他的身體狀況也每況愈下.我相信,由於此他漸漸走向死亡之路.在他去世的前幾年,他告訴我看到全美國的人民忘記他,而只為新總統歡心鼓舞.使他非常的悲傷.他的聲音飽含著無比的悲哀,他說他或許應該多花時間輪流和孩子,孫子在一起.但是一切都太晚了,僅管他擁有那麼大的權力, 那麼多的財富,他孤獨寂寞的死去.他最害怕的事還是成真. 那麼對於第三部份娛樂,也是林頓.詹森在世時不曾學會享受的事情,我經過多年的洗禮,瞭解到娛樂也須要投入許多的時間和心力去滋潤培養跟訓練.只有這樣,我們才能真正享受我們的愛好,喜歡的體育活動,熱愛的音樂,藝術或文學或任何一種娛樂活動所帶來的快樂,輕鬆感覺和心靈補給.舉個例子來說:要像林肯喜歡莎士比亞的文學一樣,他曾花上百個夜晚造訪劇院聽莎士比亞的歌劇,即使是在戰爭中最困窘的時刻.林肯說,當燈光一暗,莎士比亞的歌劇一上場,在那珍貴的幾小時內他彷彿回到亨利五世的年代. 但對林肯而言更有效且重要的輕鬆方法這是林頓.詹森從來不會,也從沒欣賞過的,是對幽默的喜愛,和對生命歡樂面的感覺,可以在悲慟歲月中成為一盞盞的路燈.他曾經說過他笑所以他可以不用哭.對他而言,一個好聽的故事比一杯的威士忌還有價值.他說故事的能力聲名遠播是當他在伊黎諾洲巡迴法庭時,律師和法官們必須到處旅行,從這鄉鎮法院到另外的鄉鎮法院.每當大家知道林肯來了,即使路途很遙遙,他們也會進城聚在一起聽他說故事.他會站立背對著營火對大家講好幾個小時的動人曲折故事,這些許許多多的故事存在他腦中的故事銀行,他隨時可以即興演說,滿足觀眾.而且這些故事很多是鄉間野史逸聞,(並不是我們以為的被正式記錄在歷史中的故事.) 打個比方,有一個林肯愛說的故事之一是這樣:這故事是跟美國獨立戰爭中的英雄伊桑·艾倫有關.根據林肯說的故事,當戰後,艾倫先生到英國去時,英國人那時還生氣輸掉戰爭讓美國贏得獨立.所以他們決定給伊桑·艾倫一點難堪,他們把華盛顿的大畫像掛在唯一的一間茅屋裡,所以當艾倫上廁所時一定會看到.他們認為他一定會因華盛顿的畫像在茅屋而非常生氣.但是當他上完廁所後一點也沒動怒.所以他們忍不住的問他:"" 你有看到喬治·華盛顿在裡面嗎?""艾倫說:""有啊!""""非常適合! 沒有比那兒更完美的地方可掛他的畫像了.""英國人就問:"" 你在說什麼?""伊桑·艾倫回答:""只要看到喬治·華盛顿將軍的畫像, 英國人就會嚇得屁滾尿流!""笑聲掌聲 所以你可以想像,假如你是身處在緊張壓迫的內閣會議中--而他有千百個這種故事-你一定會放鬆下來.林肯除了夜晚大費周章去劇院外,他喜歡說故事和他絕妙的幽默感,還有他對莎士比亞和古詩歌的喜愛,林肯找到可能陪伴一生的娛樂活動.在我自己的生活中,我很高興我有一個娛樂那就是我熱愛棒球.可以讓我從初春的訓練賽一直忙到秋末比賽,所以這段時間我的心思不是只有工作而已. 我熱愛棒球是從我6歲開始,當家人一邊聽廣播的棒球賽時,我的父親教我那神秘的計分藝術.這樣他白天去紐約上班時,我可以幫他記下那天下午的布魯客林道奇的棒球賽分數.試想如果你現在只有六歲,你的父親每個夜晚回家後都聽你的棒球賽報告—如今我瞭解,我是用一種極端折磨人的仔細去詳細報告每一個當天下午比賽的任何微小細節.但他讓我覺得我是在說一個極有趣的故事.這讓你以為歷史有什麼神奇力量可以強烈吸引起你父親的注意力. 事實上, 我相信我學會說故事的技巧是由於那段每晚向我父親報告棒球賽的練習.因為,剛開始我會很興奮的奪口而出,""布魯客林道奇隊贏了"" 或是""布魯客林道奇隊輸了""這樣一來就完全抹殺了這兩小時精彩球賽故事的戲劇性.笑聲所以我最後終於學會說一個故事從開始到最後結束的敘述技巧.因為當時對布魯客林.道奇隊太狂熱的喜愛,我後來對牧師作我第一次的告解時竟有兩個罪是有關這球隊的. 第一個罪是因為道奇隊的捕手羅.刊培尼拉到我們我鎮上,長島的羅客村,演講.就在我剛好正在準備我第一個聖餐禮時.可是我好興奮喔—他是我第一個不在愛拜球場遇見的棒球明星.他要演講的地方剛好是在新教徒的教會.假如你出生於虔誠天主教家庭,你就會相信你若膽敢步入新教徒的教會大門一步,你會立刻被閃雷擊死.所以我哭的跑去跟我父親講,""我們該怎麼辦?""他說, ""別擔心,他是在大交誼廳演講,不是主廳.而我們坐的是臨行搭的椅子, 況且他說的全部是關於運動,所以無罪""但是那晚當我聽完演講候,我相信我出賣我的永生靈魂只為了要和羅.刊培尼拉在一起一晚.笑聲而那時我沒有贖罪劵可買,所以我帶著有罪是邪惡的心向牧師作我的第一次的告解.我立刻告訴牧師發生什麼事.他說,""放心,妳沒罪! 因為那不是一個宗教活動.""然後不幸的是他問,""孩子,妳還有做什麼不對的事嗎?"" 然後我暴露我的第二宗罪.我試著讓 ""我在教堂時講太多話"" 和.""我對我的姐妹不好"" 的句子中夾著""我希望別人受傷""但他發現了並問我"" 你希望誰受傷害?""我只好老實告訴他我希望所很多紐約楊基棒球隊選手跌斷手,腳,或扭傷腳踝—笑聲-這樣布魯客林.道奇隊就可以贏得他們的第一個世界杯.他問我,""妳多頻繁許這種可怕個願望?""然後我又必須老實告訴他每晚睡前禱告我都有許這著個願望.笑聲所以他就告訴我,"" 聽著! 我要告訴妳一件事,我跟妳一樣都喜歡布魯客林.道奇隊.但是我跟妳保證有一天布魯客林.道奇隊會很公平正當的贏得冠軍.不須妳去希望別人受傷害才讓道奇隊贏.""我只好回答"" 喔, 好吧!""我非常幸運我的第一次的告解是向—一個熱愛棒球—的牧師笑聲 雖然我的父親因為心肌梗塞去世時我才二十幾歲,我還未結婚也還沒有我的三個兒子.我把他的一生的事宜—包括他對 棒球賽的感情—全部告訴我的兒子們.後來當布魯客林.道奇隊拋棄我們投向洛杉磯城市的懷抱後,我對棒球隊失去興趣. 直到我搬到波士頓後,我又變成紅襪隊狂熱的支持者.即使是現在,當用我們的球賽季票進場後,坐在我兒子的 旁邊時,有時我會合上我的雙眼, 仰頭對著白花花的陽光,想像我自己:還是個小女孩,跟我的父親在一起看年輕的布魯客林.道奇隊在下面綠油油的球場比賽傑克 羅勃森, 羅.刊培尼拉屋, 皮威.芮日,和迪克.司尼德. 一切真像是有魔法一樣.而當我睜開眼睛,看見我的兒子們坐在我父親曾坐過的位子上.我可以感覺到一種看不見的忠誠和愛連繫著我的兒子們和他們未曾謀面的祖父.雖然沒有見過他們的祖父可是經由我的許多的故事中他們早對自己祖父瞭如指掌.這是為什麼最後我會很高興我有一個對歷史的好奇赤子心,因為這份熱忱 使我願意用我的一生去研究過去的歷史讓我能學習已故的偉人如何努力追求生活意義的軌跡讓我相信那些不為人知的個人,那些我們曾鍾愛但已死去離開我們的親人和那些我們曾敬佩的歷史公眾人物,就像是亞伯罕林肯總統相信的,真的可以長存,只要我們保證去一再的傳揚他們在世的故事.謝謝今天讓我當的一個說故事者.鼓掌!謝謝!"
