Talk	en	zh-tw
dyan_denapoli_the_great_penguin_rescue	"For as long as I can remember, I have felt a very deep connection to animals and to the ocean. And at this age, my personal idol was Flipper the dolphin. And when I first learned about endangered species, I was truly distressed to know that every day, animals were being wiped off the face of this Earth forever. And I wanted to do something to help, but I always wondered: What could one person possibly do to make a difference? And it would be 30 years, but I would eventually get the answer to that question. When these heartbreaking images of oiled birds finally began to emerge from the Gulf of Mexico last year during the horrific BP oil spill, a German biologist by the name of Silvia Gaus was quoted as saying, ""We should just euthanize all oiled birds, because studies have shown that fewer than one percent of them survive after being released."" And I could not disagree more. In addition, I believe that every oiled animal deserves a second chance at life. And I want to tell you why I feel so strongly about this. On June 23, 2000, a ship named the Treasure sank off the coast of Cape Town, South Africa, spilling 1,300 tons of fuel, which polluted the habitats of nearly half the entire world population of African penguins. Now, the ship sank between Robben Island to the south, and Dassen Island to the north — two of the penguins' main breeding islands. And exactly six years and three days earlier, on June 20, 1994, a ship named the Apollo Sea sank near Dassen Island, oiling 10,000 penguins, half of which died. Now when the Treasure sank in 2000, it was the height of the best breeding season scientists had ever recorded for the African penguin, which at the time, was listed as a threatened species. And soon, nearly 20,000 penguins were covered with this toxic oil. The local seabird rescue center, named SANCCOB, immediately launched a massive rescue operation, and this soon would become the largest animal rescue ever undertaken. At the time, I was working down the street. I was a penguin aquarist at the New England Aquarium. And exactly 11 years ago yesterday, the phone rang in the penguin office. And with that call, my life would change forever. It was Estelle van Der Merwe calling from SANCCOB, saying, ""Please come help. We have thousands of oiled penguins and thousands of willing but completely inexperienced volunteers. And we need penguin experts to come train and supervise them."" So two days later, I was on a plane headed for Cape Town with a team of penguin specialists. And the scene inside of this building was devastating and surreal. In fact, many people compared it to a war zone. Last week, a 10-year-old girl asked me: ""What did it feel like when you first walked into that building and saw so many oiled penguins?"" And this is what happened. I was instantly transported back to that moment in time. Penguins are very vocal birds and really, really noisy, so I expected to walk into this building and be met with this cacophony of honking and braying and squawking. But instead, when we stepped through those doors and into the building, it was eerily silent. So it was very clear these were stressed, sick, traumatized birds. The other thing that was so striking was the sheer number of volunteers. Up to 1,000 people a day came to the rescue center. Eventually, over the course of this rescue, more than 12-and-a-half thousand volunteers came from all over the world to Cape Town, to help save these birds. And the amazing thing was that not one of them had to be there. Yet they were. So for the few of us that were there in a professional capacity, this extraordinary volunteer response to this animal crisis was profoundly moving and awe-inspiring. So the day after we arrived, two of us from the aquarium were put in charge of room two. Room two had more than 4,000 oiled penguins in it. Now, mind you — three days earlier, we had 60 penguins under our care, so we were definitely overwhelmed and just a bit terrified — at least I was. Personally, I really didn't know if I was capable of handling such a monstrous task. And collectively, we really didn't know if we could pull this off. Because we all knew that just six years earlier, half as many penguins had been oiled and rescued, and only half of them had survived. So would it be humanly possible to save this many oiled penguins? We just did not know. But what gave us hope were these incredibly dedicated and brave volunteers, three of whom here are force-feeding penguins. You may notice they're wearing very thick gloves. And what you should know about African penguins is that they have razor-sharp beaks. And before long, our bodies were covered head to toe with these nasty wounds inflicted by the terrified penguins. Now the day after we arrived, a new crisis began to unfold. The oil slick was now moving north towards Dassen Island, and the rescuers despaired, because they knew if the oil hit, it would not be possible to rescue any more oiled birds. And there really were no good solutions. But then finally, one of the researchers threw out this crazy idea. He said, ""OK, why don't we try and collect the birds at the greatest risk of getting oiled"" — they collected 20,000 — ""and we'll ship them 500 miles up the coast to Port Elizabeth in these open-air trucks, and release them into the clean waters there and let them swim back home?"" (Laughter) So three of those penguins — Peter, Pamela and Percy — wore satellite tags, and the researchers crossed their fingers and hoped that by the time they got back home, the oil would be cleaned up from their islands. And luckily, the day they arrived, it was. So it had been a huge gamble, but it had paid off. And so they know now that they can use this strategy in future oil spills. So in wildlife rescue as in life, we learn from each previous experience, and we learn from both our successes and our failures. And the main thing learned during the Apollo Sea rescue in '94 was that most of those penguins had died due to the unwitting use of poorly ventilated transport boxes and trucks, because they just had not been prepared to deal with so many oiled penguins at once. So in these six years between these two oil spills, they've built thousands of these well-ventilated boxes. And as a result, during the Treasure rescue, just 160 penguins died during the transport process, as opposed to 5,000. So this alone was a huge victory. Something else learned during the Apollo rescue was how to train the penguins to take fish freely from their hands, using these training boxes. And we used this technique again during the Treasure rescue. But an interesting thing was noted during the training process. The first penguins to make that transition to free feeding were the ones that had a metal band on their wing from the Apollo Sea spill six years earlier. So penguins learn from previous experience, too. So all of those penguins had to have the oil meticulously cleaned from their bodies. It would take two people at least an hour just to clean one penguin. When you clean a penguin, you first have to spray it with a degreaser. And this brings me to my favorite story from the Treasure rescue. About a year prior to this oil spill, a 17-year-old student had invented a degreaser. And they'd been using it at SANCCOB with great success, so they began using it during the Treasure rescue. But partway through, they ran out. So in a panic, Estelle from SANCCOB called the student and said, ""Please, you have to make more!"" So he raced to the lab and made enough to clean the rest of the birds. So I just think it is the coolest thing that a teenager invented a product that helped save the lives of thousands of animals. So what happened to those 20,000 oiled penguins? And was Silvia Gaus right? Should we routinely euthanize all oiled birds because most of them are going to die anyway? Well, she could not be more wrong. After half a million hours of grueling volunteer labor, more than 90 percent of those oiled penguins were successfully returned to the wild. And we know from follow-up studies that they have lived just as long as never-oiled penguins, and bred nearly as successfully. And in addition, about 3,000 penguin chicks were rescued and hand raised. And again, we know from long-term monitoring that more of these hand-raised chicks survive to adulthood and breeding age than do parent-raised chicks. Armed with this knowledge, SANCCOB has a chick-bolstering project, and every year, they rescue and raise abandoned chicks, and they have a very impressive, 80 percent success rate. This is critically important, because one year ago, the African penguin was declared endangered. And they could be extinct in less than 10 years if we don't do something now to protect them. So what did I learn from this intense and unforgettable experience? Personally, I learned that I am capable of handling so much more than I ever dreamed possible. And I learned that one person can make a huge difference. Just look at that 17-year-old. And when we come together and work as one, we can achieve extraordinary things. And truly, to be a part of something so much larger than yourself is the most rewarding experience you can possibly have. So I'd like to leave you with one final thought and a challenge, if you will. My mission as The Penguin Lady is to raise awareness and funding to protect penguins. But why should any of you care about penguins? Well, you should care because they're an indicator species. And simply put: if penguins are dying, it means our oceans are dying. And we ultimately will be affected, because, as Sylvia Earle says, ""The oceans are our life-support system."" And the two main threats to penguins today are overfishing and global warming. And these are two things that each one of us actually has the power to do something about. So if we each do our part, together, we can make a difference, and we can help keep penguins from going extinct. Humans have always been the greatest threat to penguins, but we are now their only hope. Thank you. (Applause)"	記憶中,我一直感覺自己和動物及海洋有很深切的連結。在這個年紀,我個人的玩具是海豚飛寶。當我首度得知瀕臨絶種物種的訊息,我十分難過地發現每天有動物會永遠從地球消失。我想為牠們做些事情,但我總是疑惑,一個人能做些什麼來改變事情的發展?三十年了,我終究得到問題的答案。 這些鳥群慘遭石油毒害的驚心動魄景象最終暴光──去年發生在墨西哥灣,十分嚴重的BP(國際石油公司)漏油事件──一位德國生物學家名為Silvia Gaus說過這樣的話,「我們應讓所有的『油鳥』安樂死因研究顯示釋放牠們重返自然後,低於百分之一的『油鳥』能存活下來。」我非常不同意這個說法。此外,我相信每隻『油鳥』值得有第二次生存機會。我要告訴你們為何我對這件事有強烈的感受。 2000年6月23日,一艘叫『寶藏』(Treasure)的運輸船沈入南非開普敦(Capetown)沿海海域,1,300噸燃料外洩,污染了幾乎大半個全球南非企鵝棲息地。那艘船沈沒在海中,就在南往羅本島(Robben Island)和北往Dassen Island的航行路線途中。這兩個島是企鵝主要繁殖地。正好6年又零3天前,即1994年6月20日,一艘叫『阿波羅海』(Apollo Sea)鐵礦運輸船沈入Dassen Island附近海域,油害一萬隻企鵝──半數企鵝死了。當『寶藏』在2000年沈入大海時,正值繁殖季節高峰,科學家曾為南非企鵝紀錄──在那時,牠們被列為生存受威脅的物種。不久,近兩萬隻企鵝遭油污附著。當地海鳥營救中心「SANCCOB」(The Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds)立即發起一個大規模的救援行動──而且很快地成為有始以來最大規模的搶救動物行動。 嗯,當時我在陸地下工作。在新英格蘭海生館時,我是企鵝館館長。從昨天算起正好11年前,我辦公室電話響起。因那通電話,我的生活從而改變了。是海鳥營救中心 Estelle van der Meer 打來的電話說:「請來協助我們。我們有成千上萬隻『油企鵝』和成千上萬個熱心,但完全沒有經驗的自願者。我們需要企鵝專家來訓練並管理他們。」於是兩天後,我在一架前往開普頓的飛機上,同行的還有企鵝專家團隊。 大樓內的景象令人震驚又難以置信。事實上,很多人稱其可與戰場相比擬。上週,一個十歲的女孩問：「那是怎樣的感覺,當妳首次走入那棟大樓看到那樣多的『油企鵝』?」情形是這樣：我當下彷彿回到那個時刻。企鵝是「很愛說話」的鳥類,真的真的很吵。所以我料定走進這座大樓會聽到這樣的嘈雜聲喋喋咻咻、嘎嘎作響,可是當我踏入大樓,進入一道道的門取而代之的是,怪異的沈默寂靜由此可知這些是焦慮、生病、受創的企鵝。 另一件令人震撼的事是自願參與救援的人數眾多,一天多達一千人到營救中心。在整個救援的過程中超過一萬二千五百多人自世界各地來到開普頓協助拯救這些雀鳥。令人動容的是他們任何人都沒必要這麼做,然而他們來了。看在我們──在那裡是少數的專業人員──的眼中,這個非凡的自願行動──對動物危機的回響──令人十分敬佩又感動萬分。 話說回來,我們抵達隔天來自海生館的我們兩人負責2號室。2號室有超過四千隻『油企鵝』。你要知道, 開始的前三天,我們照料六十隻企鵝。哦! 我們真的忙得人仰馬翻而且有點惶恐──至少我是這樣。個人而言,我真不知道我是否有能力應付場面如此殘酷難堪的任務。就全體而言,我們真的不確定挽救行動能否奏效。因為大家都知道早在六年前,遭油害後,有半數企鵝獲救,其中僅半數存活。這麼說吧,人力能挽救多少『油企鵝』?我們當下真不知道。 但讓我們點燃希望的是這些全力以赴、奮不顧身的自願者──這三個自願者得強迫餵食企鵝。你可能注意到了,他們戴著非常厚的手套。你知道的,非洲企鵝有像剃刀那般鋒利的鳥喙。不久前,我們遍體鱗傷,這些傷口是飽受驚嚇的企鵝留下的。 就在我們抵達隔天一個新的危機呈現,浮油漸漸朝北方,向Dassen Island流動,救難人員感到絶望,因為他們曉得若油水抵達就不可能搭救任何『油鳥』了。當時真的沒有好辦法了。但後來,有個研究人員抛出一個瘋狂的點子。他說：「雖然有油侵身的風險,我們何不試著就在油水中打撈這些鳥!」營救團隊搜獲兩萬隻企鵝──我們裝載這些企鵝沿海岸行駛長達500英哩(804.65公里)以後車廂開放式卡車將他們帶至依莉莎白港放入未受油污、乾淨的海域讓他們游回家。」 (笑) 這樣說吧,三隻企鵝──彼得、潘蜜拉、波西──戴著衛星標識裝置；研究人員祈禱並希望他們回到家園時,在那個島及其海域的油能被清除掉。還好,他們到達當天油被清光了。這是一個巨大的賭注,但是這個策略奏效了。因此救援團隊現在知道可以採取這個策略若未來有石油外漏的話。 正如救助生命；野生救援也一樣,我們有前車之鑑,從成功救援中學習,當然也從失敗救援中獲得教訓。最重要的事是知道──在1994年『阿波羅海』營救行動──大多數的『油企鵝』死於未事先察覺而使用通風不良的運送箱和貨車—由於營救團隊的準備不足以應付為數眾多的『油企鵝』。因而在兩次石油外漏的六年間,營救團隊建造成千上萬個通風良好的箱子。因此,在執行『寶藏』營救行動時在運輸過程中,有160隻企鵝暴斃而能有5,000隻存活下來。所以就此而論,是一場空前的勝戰。 其他從『阿波羅』營救行動中獲得的經驗是如何訓練企鵝、如何使用這些訓練箱從餵食人員手中順利地取得魚。我們再度使用這些手法在『寶藏』營救行動中,我們在訓練過程中注意到一件有趣的事。第一批撐過變遷而能自由進食的企鵝是有金屬帶在翅膀的、也是經歷6年前『阿波羅海』漏油的那批企鵝。所以企鵝也從先前的事件獲得經驗。 像這樣,所有『油企鵝』身體的油污必需被仔細清理；兩個人至少得花上一小時的時間只為清理一隻企鵝。而且清理一隻企鵝時首先必須噴灑去油劑在牠身上。我想到我最愛的故事──在『寶藏』救援行動時發生的。此石油外漏事件的約一年前,一名十七歲的學生發明了一種去油劑海鳥營救中心使用去油劑的成效很棒。所以在執行『寶藏』援救行動便開始採用。但過程中,去油劑被用光了情急之下,海鳥營救中心Estelle打電話給該名學生,說：「請務必製造更多的去油劑。」所以他飛奔到實驗室製造出足以清潔其他企鵝的劑量。我認為這是最酷的事是一名青少年發明了一項產品協助拯救成千上萬隻動物的生命。 那麼這兩萬隻『油企鵝』後來怎麼了?Silvia Gaus說對了嗎?我們應該讓所有的企鵝沒有餘地只能安樂死嗎?反正他們大部分還是無法存活下來,是嗎?嗯,她錯得離譜。在五十萬個小時精疲力竭自願勞動後,超過百分之九十的『油企鵝』被野放成功。我們從後續的研究得知牠們活得和那些未遭油害的企鵝一般長久,並且相當成功地繁殖。 還有大約三千隻企鵝寶寶獲救並且由人工哺育。我們經由長期的觀測得知人工哺育的企鵝寶寶順利存活至長大成人並達繁殖年齡,比由其雙親哺育的企鵝寶寶還多。有了這層了解海鳥營救中心便策劃出企鵝寶寶保育計劃。每年援救並扶養被棄養的企鵝寶寶。而且成功率高達百分之八十。這是十分重要,因為一年前非洲企鵝被正式宣佈瀕臨絶種。而且不到十年,若我們現在不採取行動保護牠們的話, 牠們可能滅絶。 這麼說吧,從這個深刻難忘的經驗我們學到什麼?個人而言,我發現自己有能力成就更多,連作夢都難以想像。而且我明白個人力量能讓情況截然不同──瞧!那個十七歲的學生就做到了。當我們團結在一起行動一致,我們能成就非凡。的確,成為某個非凡行動的一部分──你能體驗超越個人能力所能及的成就──是你可能擁有的最有意義的經驗。 最後我想讓大家思考一下若你們願意,請接受提議我擔任「企鵝大使」的任務是喚起民眾意識和募款保護企鵝,只是,你們為何應該要在乎企鵝?你們確實應該要在乎,因為牠們是「指標物種」。簡單說,如果企鵝逐步滅跡,這意味我們的海洋處於垂死狀態,我們到頭來還是會受影響,因為如同海洋學家Sylvia Earle說的,「海洋是我們的自然生命維持系統。」目前企鵝面臨的兩個主要威脅是過度捕捉和全球暖化。這兩件事是我們每個人實際有能力去解決的牠所以若我們每人都能出一份力便能扭轉乾坤,讓情況改變,可使企鵝免於滅絶。人類一直是企鵝面臨的最大威脅,但現在我們是牠們唯一的希望。 謝謝大家。 (掌聲)
