Talk	en	zh-tw
e_o_wilson_advice_to_young_scientists	"What I'm going to do is to just give a few notes, and this is from a book I'm preparing called ""Letters to a Young Scientist."" I'd thought it'd be appropriate to present it, on the basis that I have had extensive experience in teaching, counseling scientists across a broad array of fields. And you might like to hear some of the principles that I've developed in doing that teaching and counseling. So let me begin by urging you, particularly you on the youngsters' side, on this path you've chosen, to go as far as you can. The world needs you, badly. Humanity is now fully into the techno-scientific age. There is going to be no turning back. Although varying among disciplines — say, astrophysics, molecular genetics, the immunology, the microbiology, the public health, to the new area of the human body as a symbiont, to public health, environmental science. Knowledge in medical science and science overall is doubling every 15 to 20 years. Technology is increasing at a comparable rate. Between them, the two already pervade, as most of you here seated realize, every dimension of human life. So swift is the velocity of the techno-scientific revolution, so startling in its countless twists and turns, that no one can predict its outcome even a decade from the present moment. There will come a time, of course, when the exponential growth of discovery and knowledge, which actually began in the 1600s, has to peak and level off, but that's not going to matter to you. The revolution is going to continue for at least several more decades. It'll render the human condition radically different from what it is today. Traditional fields of study are going to continue to grow and in so doing, inevitably they will meet and create new disciplines. In time, all of science will come to be a continuum of description, an explanation of networks, of principles and laws. That's why you need not just be training in one specialty, but also acquire breadth in other fields, related to and even distant from your own initial choice. Keep your eyes lifted and your head turning. The search for knowledge is in our genes. It was put there by our distant ancestors who spread across the world, and it's never going to be quenched. To understand and use it sanely, as a part of the civilization yet to evolve requires a vastly larger population of scientifically trained people like you. In education, medicine, law, diplomacy, government, business and the media that exist today. Our political leaders need at least a modest degree of scientific literacy, which most badly lack today — no applause, please. It will be better for all if they prepare before entering office rather than learning on the job. Therefore you will do well to act on the side, no matter how far into the laboratory you may go, to serve as teachers during the span of your career. I'll now proceed quickly, and before else, to a subject that is both a vital asset and a potential barrier to a scientific career. If you are a bit short in mathematical skills, don't worry. Many of the most successful scientists at work today are mathematically semi-literate. A metaphor will serve here: Where elite mathematicians and statisticians and theorists often serve as architects in the expanding realm of science, the remaining large majority of basic applied scientists, including a large portion of those who could be said to be of the first rank, are the ones who map the terrain, they scout the frontiers, they cut the pathways, they raise the buildings along the way. Some may have considered me foolhardy, but it's been my habit to brush aside the fear of mathematics when talking to candidate scientists. During 41 years of teaching biology at Harvard, I watched sadly as bright students turned away from the possibility of a scientific career or even from taking non-required courses in science because they were afraid of failure. These math-phobes deprive science and medicine of immeasurable amounts of badly needed talent. Here's how to relax your anxieties, if you have them: Understand that mathematics is a language ruled like other verbal languages, or like verbal language generally, by its own grammar and system of logic. Any person with average quantitative intelligence who learns to read and write mathematics at an elementary level will, as in verbal language, have little difficulty picking up most of the fundamentals if they choose to master the mathspeak of most disciplines of science. The longer you wait to become at least semi-literate the harder the language of mathematics will be to master, just as again in any verbal language, but it can be done at any age. I speak as an authority on that subject, because I'm an extreme case. I didn't take algebra until my freshman year at the University of Alabama. They didn't teach it before then. I finally got around to calculus as a 32-year-old tenured professor at Harvard, where I sat uncomfortably in classes with undergraduate students, little more than half my age. A couple of them were students in a course I was giving on evolutionary biology. I swallowed my pride, and I learned calculus. I found out that in science and all its applications, what is crucial is not that technical ability, but it is imagination in all of its applications. The ability to form concepts with images of entities and processes pictured by intuition. I found out that advances in science rarely come upstream from an ability to stand at a blackboard and conjure images from unfolding mathematical propositions and equations. They are instead the products of downstream imagination leading to hard work, during which mathematical reasoning may or may not prove to be relevant. Ideas emerge when a part of the real or imagined world is studied for its own sake. Of foremost importance is a thorough, well-organized knowledge of all that is known of the relevant entities and processes that might be involved in that domain you propose to enter. When something new is discovered, it's logical then that one of the follow-up steps is to find the mathematical and statistical methods to move its analysis forward. If that step proves too difficult for the person or team that made the discovery, a mathematician can then be added by them as a collaborator. Consider the following principle, which I will modestly call Wilson's Principle Number One: It is far easier for scientists including medical researchers, to require needed collaboration in mathematics and statistics than it is for mathematicians and statisticians to find scientists able to make use of their equations. It is important in choosing the direction to take in science to find the subject at your level of competence that interests you deeply, and focus on that. Keep in mind, then, Wilson's Second Principle: For every scientist, whether researcher, technician, teacher, manager or businessman, working at any level of mathematical competence, there exists a discipline in science or medicine for which that level is enough to achieve excellence. Now I'm going to offer quickly several more principles that will be useful in organizing your education and career, or if you're teaching, how you might enhance your own teaching and counseling of young scientists. In selecting a subject in which to conduct original research, or to develop world-class expertise, take a part of the chosen discipline that is sparsely inhabited. Judge opportunity by how few other students and researchers are on hand. This is not to de-emphasize the essential requirement of broad training, or the value of apprenticing yourself in ongoing research to programs of high quality. It is important also to acquire older mentors within these successful programs, and to make friends and colleagues of your age for mutual support. But through it all, look for a way to break out, to find a field and subject not yet popular. We have seen this demonstrated already in the talks preceding mine. There is the quickest way advances are likely to occur, as measured in discoveries per investigator per year. You may have heard the military dictum for the gathering of armies: March to the sound of the guns. In science, the exact opposite is the case: March away from the sound of the guns. So Wilson's Principle Number Three: March away from the sound of the guns. Observe from a distance, but do not join the fray. Make a fray of your own. Once you have settled on a specialty, and the profession you can love, and you've secured opportunity, your potential to succeed will be greatly enhanced if you study it enough to become an expert. There are thousands of professionally delimited subjects sprinkled through physics and chemistry to biology and medicine. And on then into the social sciences, where it is possible in short time to acquire the status of an authority. When the subject is still very thinly populated, you can with diligence and hard work become the world authority. The world needs this kind of expertise, and it rewards the kind of people willing to acquire it. The existing information and what you self-discover may at first seem skimpy and difficult to connect to other bodies of knowledge. Well, if that's the case, good. Why hard instead of easy? The answer deserves to be stated as Principle Number Four. In the attempt to make scientific discoveries, every problem is an opportunity, and the more difficult the problem, the greater will be the importance of its solution. Now this brings me to a basic categorization in the way scientific discoveries are made. Scientists, pure mathematicians among them, follow one or the other of two pathways: First through early discoveries, a problem is identified and a solution is sought. The problem may be relatively small; for example, where exactly in a cruise ship does the norovirus begin to spread? Or larger, what's the role of dark matter in the expansion of the universe? As the answer is sought, other phenomena are typically discovered and other questions are asked. This first of the two strategies is like a hunter, exploring a forest in search of a particular quarry, who finds other quarries along the way. The second strategy of research is to study a subject broadly searching for unknown phenomena or patterns of known phenomena like a hunter in what we call ""the naturalist's trance,"" the researcher of mind is open to anything interesting, any quarry worth taking. The search is not for the solution of the problem, but for problems themselves worth solving. The two strategies of research, original research, can be stated as follows, in the final principle I'm going to offer you: For every problem in a given discipline of science, there exists a species or entity or phenomenon ideal for its solution. And conversely, for every species or other entity or phenomenon, there exist important problems for the solution of which, those particular objects of research are ideally suited. Find out what they are. You'll find your own way to discover, to learn, to teach. The decades ahead will see dramatic advances in disease prevention, general health, the quality of life. All of humanity depends on the knowledge and practice of the medicine and the science behind it you will master. You have chosen a calling that will come in steps to give you satisfaction, at its conclusion, of a life well lived. And I thank you for having me here tonight. (Applause) Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. I salute you."	"我今天只想淺談我的一些想法大多出自於我正在寫的一本書叫作《給年輕科學家的一封信》我想在這裡很適合做這個報告因為我擁有豐富的經驗於各式教學領域及輔導科學家而你可能想聽聽我多年教學中所獲得的經驗和發展的原則 首先，讓我鼓勵你們尤其是你們年輕人在你們所選擇的路上竭盡所能的發展這世界急迫的需要你們人類社會正完全進入科技科學的時代已經完全沒有回頭的餘地了 雖然這在每個領域有所不同，比如說分子遺傳學、免疫學、微生物學公共衛生，或是最新的人體生物共生領域亦或是公衛或環境科學我們對醫學和科學本身的認知每15至20年就會增加一倍科技也以相當的速度在發展在這兩者之間，它們已經在座各位大概都知道遍布人類生活的每一個角落 科學與科技的革新是如此之快如此出乎意料的曲折，沒有人能夠預料它僅十年後的面貌 當然，總會有一天知識和新發現的指數成長(而這約略1600年代就開始了)將會達到最高點而慢慢停止但這對你來說並不重要因為這科技革命少說也會再持續個幾十年它將會把人類的現況徹底的由現今的面貌改變傳統的領域將會持續發展而發展的同時，勢必會相遇並產生新的領域 在未來，科學將變成一個不受區分的連續體是種包含各種網絡、定律及原則的解釋這就是為什麼，你必須不只受訓於單一專長還要於其他領域廣泛閱讀汲取與你興趣相關，甚至相關甚遠的知識 持續睜亮你的目光，腦袋不停轉動對知識的渴望是天生於我們基因裡的這慾望來自於我們遠古的祖先他們將之散布全球而求知的欲望也永無止盡之日但是於我們文明演化過程中了解並善用這個慾望需要一群像你們一般受過科學訓練的人在如教育、醫學、法律、外交政府、商學、已及當今各式各樣的媒體和領域 我們的政治領導人至少需要一定量的科學知識事實上現今大多人都迫切需要加強這點拜託，請不要鼓掌如果他們能夠在上任之前就準備好而不是邊做邊學，大家都會鬆一口氣因此你們應該要從旁支援不管你多麼深入實驗室工作你可以走出來，於你就業生涯從事教學的工作 我現在將快速的進行探討一個對於科學家職業非常重要但也有可能成為障礙的議題如果你的數學能力並不怎麼樣不要擔心現今許多頂尖的科學家對數學也只是似懂非懂而已 讓我打個比喻：頂尖的數學家、統計學家理論家，是科學新疆土的建築師剩餘大多數的應用科學家包括一些數一數二的菁英他們冒險探測地形，開疆闢土開闢新的道路並於途中構築高樓 有些人可能因此認為我愚昧不明但和新起的科學家談話時我常習慣漠視他們對數學的不安在我41年於哈佛教授生物的經驗中我多次難過的看著聰明的學生選擇不考慮科學相關職業甚至不敢修科學相關的選修課程都因為他們害怕失敗這對數學莫名的恐懼使得科學和醫學界流失許多我們非常需要的人才 如果你也有此恐懼，已下是克服的方法：了解數學只是個語言它像其他語言一樣受限於它的文法掌控並有它的邏輯規則任何擁有一般數學認知能夠以基本程度運用數學語言的人都能如學習文字語言一般領略大多數科學領域所需要的都能如學習文字語言一般領略大多數科學領域所需要的數學語言之基礎 你若是等越久開始學習就如同其他語言一般數學語言也會變得更難融會貫通但是，無論你幾歲開始，都有辦法成功我是這方面的權威主要是因為我是個極端的範例我於阿拉巴馬大學一年級時才第一次接觸代數在那之前沒人教過我 當我開始學微積分時我已是三十二歲的哈佛教授與歲數比我一半的年紀沒大多少的大學生尷尬的坐在教室裡其中有一些學生還是我演化生物學的學生我忍下身為教授的虛榮學會了微積分 我發現在科學及其應用中重要的並不是技術上的能力而是能充滿想像力的運用將個別圖像和直覺所創的各種過程轉化成概念將個別圖像和直覺所創的各種過程轉化成概念我發現科學突破很少是由上而下的在黑板前展開複雜的公式假設、構圖，很少最後延伸出科學發現假設、構圖，很少最後延伸出科學發現新發現反而通常是由下游的想像力和努力實驗達成其中數學推論可能很重要，也可能一點也不新想法的產生，源自於基本的求知慾而研究真實或虛構的世界 當然最重要的是對於你決定進入的研究領域擁有相關該域種種的全面性、 組織良好的知識擁有相關該域種種的全面性、 組織良好的知識而每當有新發現時合乎邏輯的下一步之一就是尋找合理的數學和統計學分析方法但如果這一步對於該發現的創始者而言太過困難但如果這一步對於該發現的創始者而言太過困難他們很可以加入一位數學家作為合作者 想想以下原則我將謙虛的稱之為威爾遜的第一定律：科學家們，包括醫學研究者找到所需的數學家和統計學家來合作幫忙要比數學家和統計學家找到能夠利用他們的方程式的科學家還容易多了在年輕科學家選擇研究方向時最重要的是找到符合你能力並深感興趣的主題然後專注於此 但還請記住，威爾遜的第二個定律：每一位科學家，不管是研究員、 技術員、老師、 經理或商人雖然他們各自擁有不同的數學能力但都存在一個科學或醫學的學科讓他們無論數學水準為何都能有卓越成就 我現在要快速提供幾個於規劃你的教育和職業生涯中非常有用的幾個原則或者如果你是教育者如何提高你自己的教學及輔導的青年科學家的能力當在選擇一個進行原創性的研究主題或開發世界一流的專業技能時盡量參與那領域中人口稀少的一部分一個領域中的學生和研究人員越少研究和成功機會越多一個領域中的學生和研究人員越少研究和成功機會越多 這並不是說廣泛培訓不重要也不是說投身高品質研究計畫的學徒是了無新意的擁有這些成功的科學家為導師也是非常重要同時還要與年齡相仿的同事成為朋友相互支援但是，在這之中，尋找突破的空間找找尚未流行的領域和主題 這點在我之前的講者們都已說明了這是進步發生最快的方式我說的昰每年、每位調查人員所發表新發現的速率你可能聽說過聚集軍隊的軍事名言：往炮聲方向前進在科學領域，情況正好相反： 往炮聲反方向前進 所以威爾遜的第三定律：往炮聲反方向前進從遠處觀察但不要加入混戰創造你自己的戰局一旦你決定了你的專業及你熱愛的職業，並擁有了機會如果你以成為專家的目標去進行研究你成功的潛力將會大大提升 在物理和化學、生物學和醫學中有成千上萬的專業分隔和許許多多的附屬領域社會科學領域就更不用說了在這些附屬領域中你很有可能在短時間內成為該主題的權威當那主題仍然很少人研究時你能靠著勤奮和努力成為世界權威 世界需要這種專業知識並會獎勵有能力擁有這種知識的人並會獎勵有能力擁有這種知識的人雖然一開始，現有的資訊和你自己的發現可能看起來很單薄，難以其他的學科領域連接可能看起來很單薄，難以其他的學科領域連接好吧，如果真是這樣，那其實很好為什麼要往難而非容易的方向走呢？ 這問題的答案值得稱為第四定律。在科學發現的過程當中每個問題都是一個機會而越是困難的問題它的答案就越是重要 這讓我來到科學發現方式的基本分類科學家，包括純數學家都按照這兩個途徑：第一，通過早期發現找出問題並尋求解決辦法該問題可能是相對較小例如，諾羅病毒是在遊輪的哪個位置開始傳播？或更大，像是黑暗物質在宇宙膨脹中有什麼作用？在尋求答案的過程中，會發現其他現象並衍生其他的問題 這第一個戰略就像一個獵人在森林尋找特定的獵物並在途中找到其他獵物而做研究的第二種策略就是廣泛地研究一個題目搜索未知的現象或已知現象的原則就像一個獵人在我們稱之為""博物學家的恍惚狀態""研究員的心智對於任何有趣的、值得考慮的獵物採取完全開放的心態這種搜索時不昰為了一個問題的解決方案而是為了值得解決的問題 這兩個作研究或原創性的研究的策略可以如以下說明是我要為你提供的最後一個定律：對於在任何一個學科的任何一個問題都存在一個物種、實體或現象是其解決方案的理想研究對象相反，對於每個物種或其現象都存在著重要的問題使它成為其解決方案非常適合的研究對象找出它們是什麼你將會已你自己的方式來發現來學習、教學 在未來數十年我們將會看到在疾病預防、日常保健、 生活品質方面有劇烈的進展全人類都依賴你將掌握的醫學和科學的知識與實踐全人類都依賴你將掌握的醫學和科學的知識與實踐你所選擇的志業，將會一步一步讓你滿足，最終，給你充滿意義的一生謝謝你們今晚邀請我來到這裡 （掌聲） 喔，謝謝你謝謝我向你們致敬"
