Talk	en	zh-tw
ed_boyden_baby_diapers_inspired_this_new_way_to_study_the_brain	Hello, everybody. I brought with me today a baby diaper. You'll see why in a second. Baby diapers have interesting properties. They can swell enormously when you add water to them, an experiment done by millions of kids every day. (Laughter) But the reason why is that they're designed in a very clever way. They're made out of a thing called a swellable material. It's a special kind of material that, when you add water, it will swell up enormously, maybe a thousand times in volume. And this is a very useful, industrial kind of polymer. But what we're trying to do in my group at MIT is to figure out if we can do something similar to the brain. Can we make it bigger, big enough that you can peer inside and see all the tiny building blocks, the biomolecules, how they're organized in three dimensions, the structure, the ground truth structure of the brain, if you will? If we could get that, maybe we could have a better understanding of how the brain is organized to yield thoughts and emotions and actions and sensations. Maybe we could try to pinpoint the exact changes in the brain that result in diseases, diseases like Alzheimer's and epilepsy and Parkinson's, for which there are few treatments, much less cures, and for which, very often, we don't know the cause or the origins and what's really causing them to occur. Now, our group at MIT is trying to take a different point of view from the way neuroscience has been done over the last hundred years. We're designers. We're inventors. We're trying to figure out how to build technologies that let us look at and repair the brain. And the reason is, the brain is incredibly, incredibly complicated. So what we've learned over the first century of neuroscience is that the brain is a very complicated network, made out of very specialized cells called neurons with very complex geometries, and electrical currents will flow through these complexly shaped neurons. Furthermore, neurons are connected in networks. They're connected by little junctions called synapses that exchange chemicals and allow the neurons to talk to each other. The density of the brain is incredible. In a cubic millimeter of your brain, there are about 100,000 of these neurons and maybe a billion of those connections. But it's worse. So, if you could zoom in to a neuron, and, of course, this is just our artist's rendition of it. What you would see are thousands and thousands of kinds of biomolecules, little nanoscale machines organized in complex, 3D patterns, and together they mediate those electrical pulses, those chemical exchanges that allow neurons to work together to generate things like thoughts and feelings and so forth. Now, we don't know how the neurons in the brain are organized to form networks, and we don't know how the biomolecules are organized within neurons to form these complex, organized machines. If we really want to understand this, we're going to need new technologies. But if we could get such maps, if we could look at the organization of molecules and neurons and neurons and networks, maybe we could really understand how the brain conducts information from sensory regions, mixes it with emotion and feeling, and generates our decisions and actions. Maybe we could pinpoint the exact set of molecular changes that occur in a brain disorder. And once we know how those molecules have changed, whether they've increased in number or changed in pattern, we could use those as targets for new drugs, for new ways of delivering energy into the brain in order to repair the brain computations that are afflicted in patients who suffer from brain disorders. We've all seen lots of different technologies over the last century to try to confront this. I think we've all seen brain scans taken using MRI machines. These, of course, have the great power that they are noninvasive, they can be used on living human subjects. But also, they're spatially crude. Each of these blobs that you see, or voxels, as they're called, can contain millions and millions of neurons. So it's not at the level of resolution where it can pinpoint the molecular changes that occur or the changes in the wiring of these networks that contributes to our ability to be conscious and powerful beings. At the other extreme, you have microscopes. Microscopes, of course, will use light to look at little tiny things. For centuries, they've been used to look at things like bacteria. For neuroscience, microscopes are actually how neurons were discovered in the first place, about 130 years ago. But light is fundamentally limited. You can't see individual molecules with a regular old microscope. You can't look at these tiny connections. So if we want to make our ability to see the brain more powerful, to get down to the ground truth structure, we're going to need to have even better technologies. My group, a couple years ago, started thinking: Why don't we do the opposite? If it's so darn complicated to zoom in to the brain, why can't we make the brain bigger? It initially started with two grad students in my group, Fei Chen and Paul Tillberg. Now many others in my group are helping with this process. We decided to try to figure out if we could take polymers, like the stuff in the baby diaper, and install it physically within the brain. If we could do it just right, and you add water, you can potentially blow the brain up to where you could distinguish those tiny biomolecules from each other. You would see those connections and get maps of the brain. This could potentially be quite dramatic. We brought a little demo here. We got some purified baby diaper material. It's much easier just to buy it off the Internet than to extract the few grains that actually occur in these diapers. I'm going to put just one teaspoon here of this purified polymer. And here we have some water. What we're going to do is see if this teaspoon of the baby diaper material can increase in size. You're going to see it increase in volume by about a thousandfold before your very eyes. I could pour much more of this in there, but I think you've got the idea that this is a very, very interesting molecule, and if can use it in the right way, we might be able to really zoom in on the brain in a way that you can't do with past technologies. OK. So a little bit of chemistry now. What's going on in the baby diaper polymer? If you could zoom in, it might look something like what you see on the screen. Polymers are chains of atoms arranged in long, thin lines. The chains are very tiny, about the width of a biomolecule, and these polymers are really dense. They're separated by distances that are around the size of a biomolecule. This is very good because we could potentially move everything apart in the brain. If we add water, what will happen is, this swellable material is going to absorb the water, the polymer chains will move apart from each other, and the entire material is going to become bigger. And because these chains are so tiny and spaced by biomolecular distances, we could potentially blow up the brain and make it big enough to see. Here's the mystery, then: How do we actually make these polymer chains inside the brain so we can move all the biomolecules apart? If we could do that, maybe we could get ground truth maps of the brain. We could look at the wiring. We can peer inside and see the molecules within. To explain this, we made some animations where we actually look at, in these artist renderings, what biomolecules might look like and how we might separate them. Step one: what we'd have to do, first of all, is attach every biomolecule, shown in brown here, to a little anchor, a little handle. We need to pull the molecules of the brain apart from each other, and to do that, we need to have a little handle that allows those polymers to bind to them and to exert their force. Now, if you just take baby diaper polymer and dump it on the brain, obviously, it's going to sit there on top. So we need to find a way to make the polymers inside. And this is where we're really lucky. It turns out, you can get the building blocks, monomers, as they're called, and if you let them go into the brain and then trigger the chemical reactions, you can get them to form those long chains, right there inside the brain tissue. They're going to wind their way around biomolecules and between biomolecules, forming those complex webs that will allow you, eventually, to pull apart the molecules from each other. And every time one of those little handles is around, the polymer will bind to the handle, and that's exactly what we need in order to pull the molecules apart from each other. All right, the moment of truth. We have to treat this specimen with a chemical to kind of loosen up all the molecules from each other, and then, when we add water, that swellable material is going to start absorbing the water, the polymer chains will move apart, but now, the biomolecules will come along for the ride. And much like drawing a picture on a balloon, and then you blow up the balloon, the image is the same, but the ink particles have moved away from each other. And that's what we've been able to do now, but in three dimensions. There's one last trick. As you can see here, we've color-coded all the biomolecules brown. That's because they all kind of look the same. Biomolecules are made out of the same atoms, but just in different orders. So we need one last thing in order to make them visible. We have to bring in little tags, with glowing dyes that will distinguish them. So one kind of biomolecule might get a blue color. Another kind of biomolecule might get a red color. And so forth. And that's the final step. Now we can look at something like a brain and look at the individual molecules, because we've moved them far apart enough from each other that we can tell them apart. So the hope here is that we can make the invisible visible. We can turn things that might seem small and obscure and blow them up until they're like constellations of information about life. Here's an actual video of what it might look like. We have here a little brain in a dish — a little piece of a brain, actually. We've infused the polymer in, and now we're adding water. What you'll see is that, right before your eyes — this video is sped up about sixtyfold — this little piece of brain tissue is going to grow. It can increase by a hundredfold or even more in volume. And the cool part is, because those polymers are so tiny, we're separating biomolecules evenly from each other. It's a smooth expansion. We're not losing the configuration of the information. We're just making it easier to see. So now we can take actual brain circuitry — here's a piece of the brain involved with, for example, memory — and we can zoom in. We can start to actually look at how circuits are configured. Maybe someday we could read out a memory. Maybe we could actually look at how circuits are configured to process emotions, how the actual wiring of our brain is organized in order to make us who we are. And of course, we can pinpoint, hopefully, the actual problems in the brain at a molecular level. What if we could actually look into cells in the brain and figure out, wow, here are the 17 molecules that have altered in this brain tissue that has been undergoing epilepsy or changing in Parkinson's disease or otherwise being altered? If we get that systematic list of things that are going wrong, those become our therapeutic targets. We can build drugs that bind those. We can maybe aim energy at different parts of the brain in order to help people with Parkinson's or epilepsy or other conditions that affect over a billion people around the world. Now, something interesting has been happening. It turns out that throughout biomedicine, there are other problems that expansion might help with. This is an actual biopsy from a human breast cancer patient. It turns out that if you look at cancers, if you look at the immune system, if you look at aging, if you look at development — all these processes are involving large-scale biological systems. But of course, the problems begin with those little nanoscale molecules, the machines that make the cells and the organs in our body tick. So what we're trying to do now is to figure out if we can actually use this technology to map the building blocks of life in a wide variety of diseases. Can we actually pinpoint the molecular changes in a tumor so that we can actually go after it in a smart way and deliver drugs that might wipe out exactly the cells that we want to? You know, a lot of medicine is very high risk. Sometimes, it's even guesswork. My hope is we can actually turn what might be a high-risk moon shot into something that's more reliable. If you think about the original moon shot, where they actually landed on the moon, it was based on solid science. We understood gravity; we understood aerodynamics. We knew how to build rockets. The science risk was under control. It was still a great, great feat of engineering. But in medicine, we don't necessarily have all the laws. Do we have all the laws that are analogous to gravity, that are analogous to aerodynamics? I would argue that with technologies like the kinds I'm talking about today, maybe we can actually derive those. We can map the patterns that occur in living systems, and figure out how to overcome the diseases that plague us. You know, my wife and I have two young kids, and one of my hopes as a bioengineer is to make life better for them than it currently is for us. And my hope is, if we can turn biology and medicine from these high-risk endeavors that are governed by chance and luck, and make them things that we win by skill and hard work, then that would be a great advance. Thank you very much. (Applause)	大家好。今天我帶來了嬰兒紙尿布。過一會兒，你就知道為什麼了。嬰兒紙尿布有個有趣的特性。加了水，它們會脹得極大，每天有數百萬計的小孩子親身實驗。 （笑聲） 膨脹的原因是它們的巧妙設計。它們是用可膨脹的材料做出來的。若你把水加到這種特殊材料中，它會脹的碩大，體積約脹大1000倍。這是個非常有用的工業類型聚合物。我在麻省理工學院的研究團隊正嘗試要類似地把腦脹大。我們能否把腦脹大，大到能夠往內面窺視，看裡頭的小組件、生物分子，看它們在三度空間的組合方式，腦的結構，裡面的實況？如果辦得到，也許我們能更理解腦的組織，它是如何產生思想、情感、行動和感覺。或許我們能嘗試準確地查明那些導致疾病的大腦變化；像是阿滋海默症、癲癇，和帕金森氏症這些疾病，只有少數療法，談不上治癒；我們往往不知道那些疾病的原因、起源，以及是什麼引發了疾病。我們在麻省理工學院的研究小組正嘗試採取不同的觀點，有別於過往百年研究神經科學的方法。我們設計。我們發明。我們正嘗試找出和開發技術讓我們能審視和修復大腦。原因是大腦令人難以置信地複雜。 回望腦神經科學研究的第一個百年,我們得知了大腦是個很複雜的網路，由稱做神經元的專門細胞以複雜的幾何形狀連結而成；電流通過這些形狀複雜的神經元。此外，神經元被連接在網絡中。它們通過被稱為突觸的小小連接口交換化學物質，讓神經元彼此間交流訊息。大腦有著不可思議的高密度。在每一立方毫米的大腦中約有十萬個神經元，可能有十億個連接。十億個還不止。如果你能拉近神經元放大看－當然，這僅僅是藝術家的描繪－你會看到成千上萬種的生物分子，這些三度空間、奈米級的小結構，合起來斡旋調停電脈衝和交換化學物質，使得神經元一起產生思想、感覺等等。 我們不知道大腦中的神經元如何組織成網路，我們也不知道生物分子如何在神經元中形成這複雜、有秩序的機制。若我們真想了解，就必須有新的技術。若我們有這圖譜，若我們看得到分子和神經元的構造，看得到神經元和網路，也許我們能真正了解大腦如何傳送來自感官區的信號，混合情緒和情感，以及產生決策和行動。也許我們可以確切查明腦病變中發生的分子改變。一旦我們察覺分子如何改變－不論是數目增加或是型態改變－我們可以把這些當作病灶來開發新藥，以新的方式把能量送到大腦，修復受腦疾折磨的患者的腦。 上個世紀有許多技術嘗試面對這個問題。我們都見過核磁共振成像儀被用來掃描腦部。它們適用於研究活生生的人體，不具有侵入性。但同時，它們的成像粗糙。這些斑點，或者稱為立體像素，可能含有數以百萬計的神經元。這樣的解析度不足以查明是哪些分子的改變或哪些網路連結的變動，這些網絡連接使我們身為有意識的強大生物。 在另一端，有顯微鏡。顯微鏡以射入光來看微小的東西。數百年來被用以觀察像細菌這樣的小東西。就神經科學來說，約130年前用顯微鏡首次發現了神經元。但是光本身有限制。用普通的舊式光學顯微鏡無法看到單個分子。看不到這些微小的連接。因此，如果要踏踏實實、更加強而有力地觀察大腦和其結構，我們需有更好的技術。 數年前，我的研究小組開始思考：何不反向操作呢？如果要近看大腦是這麼複雜，難道我們不能把腦變大嗎？起頭的是我組裡的兩個研究生，陳飛和保羅·湊博格。起頭的是我組裡的兩個研究生，陳飛和保羅·湊博格。現在我組裡的許多人都幫著做。我們嘗試聚合物－像是嬰兒尿布中的東西－把它放在大腦中。如果做得恰到好處，加入水，就可能把腦放大到這種地步：足以把小生物分子個別地分辨出來。可以看到那些連結而得到腦的圖譜。這可能相當戲劇化， 所以我們準備了小小的示範。我們取得一些嬰兒尿布的純粹原料。購買它比從紙尿布內取出幾粒原料來要容易得多。我只放入一茶匙精製的聚合物。然後加入一些水。接下來，這一茶匙的尿布材料體積膨脹了。在你眼前，它的體積變成約千倍大。雖然我可以倒入更多的水，但你們都已明白這是一種非常有意思的分子，如果適當地使用，或許我們真能以前所未能的技術來近觀大腦， 好。說明一點點化學原理。嬰兒尿布的聚合物裡是怎麼回事？如果你能拉近放大，可能就如同你在屏幕上看到的。聚合物是原子排成的細、長鏈。該鏈非常微小，大約是生物分子的寬度，這些聚合物非常密集。它們之間的距離大約是生物分子的大小。這非常好，因有足夠的空間可以把大腦中每一樣東西的距離拉遠。如果我們加入水，這可膨脹的物質吸了水，聚合物鏈彼此間的距離就拉遠了，整個體積變得更大。由於這些鏈是如此的渺小，而且原本的間距只有生物分子那麼一丁點大，所以我們能讓大腦脹大，大到足以被觀察。 奧秘在於：我們怎樣把聚合物鏈置入大腦中，讓我們得以拉開生物分子的間距呢？如果做得到，或許我們就能得到腦圖的實況，可以窺視大腦迴路，可以窺見裡頭的分子。我們準備了動畫來解釋，此處看到的是藝術家所詮釋生物分子的概貌和可能的分開程序。步驟一：首先要在每一個以棕色示意的生物分子上黏上一個小錨，小把手。為了把腦中分子彼此的距離拉遠，我們需要小把手以讓聚合物結合分子，讓它可以施力。 如果你只把嬰兒尿布的聚合物傾倒在腦上，很顯然，它就只會堆在腦上而已。因此，我們需要找個方法讓聚合物進到腦裡面去。這正是我們幸運之處。事實上，若把被稱為單體的基本組件放到腦裡面，它們就會觸發化學反應，然後在腦組織裡形成這些長鏈。它們會纏繞生物分子也會佔住生物分子間的空隙，形成複雜的網讓你終於能把這些分子拉開。在有小把手的地方,聚合物會黏住這些把手，成為拉開分子的施力點。 好吧，來到關鍵時刻。我們得先用化學物質處理樣本以鬆開分子，然後加水，這個會膨脹的材料開始吸水，聚合鏈移動開來，生物分子隨著一起移動。就像在氣球上繪圖，然後將氣吹入氣球，圖案相同，但是墨水粒子的間距拉遠了，這就是我們所做的，不過是在三度空間裡。 還有最後一技巧。如你所見，我們把所有的生物分子都標成褐色。這是因為他們看起來是一樣的。雖然生物分子的組成原子相同，但順序卻可有差異。最後，我們還要使不同的生物分子能用視覺辨別出來。用發光的染料作為區分他們的小標籤。將某一種生物分子染成藍色，而另一種會染成紅色，等等。這就是最後一步。如此，我們就可以看到腦和各個分子，因為我們把分子拉得很開，所以可以分辨彼此。 成功的希望繫於我們把不可見的變成可見的。我們把小而模糊的東西放大，大到它们看起来像是生命信息的星座圖。這是大概模樣的真正視頻。碟裡放著小小的一個腦－其實是一小片腦。我們已在裡頭注入聚合物，現在要加水。你眼前將看到的是－以60倍速放映的視頻－這小片腦組織將會脹大。它的體積將會脹成百倍或更大。酷的是，因為聚合物是如此渺小，我們將能均勻地分開生物分子。是平整的擴張，資訊信息的組態不會失真，只是變成更容易被看得到。 取一實際的大腦神經組織－例如與記憶有關的這一部分－拉近放大。我們開始能看到實際的神經電路構造。也許有一天我們也能讀出記憶的內容。也許我們能真切地看到處理情緒的神經電路組織，腦內的神經怎樣連結，使我們成為我們。當然我們也希望能精準到分子層次地查明腦病的問題。試想，若我們真的深入到腦細胞裡，哇，並且查出是腦組織中的這17個分子病變而產生如癲癇、帕金森氏症，或其他種類的異常？如果我們有系統地把變異列表，就可以當作治療的靶點。我們可以針對那些標靶製藥。或許我們能集中精力研究不一樣的大腦部位，以幫助世界各地罹患帕金森、癲癇或其他病症的十億人口。以幫助世界各地罹患帕金森、癲癇或其他病症的十億人口。 一些有趣的事已經發生了。在整個生物醫​​藥界還存在著這個擴張大腦的方法可以助益的其他問題。這是個實際來自乳腺癌患者的活體檢視。若你檢視癌症、免疫系統、老化、發育 －這些過程都與大規模的生物系統有關。當然，問題始於奈米級的分子，和細胞、身體器官規律運行的機制。我們正試圖釐清是否真能用這技術描繪出各式各樣疾病中基礎生命結構組成的脈絡。我們能否精確地定位腫瘤的分子變化，以巧妙的方法追尋並發展出能殲滅我們要殺死的惡細胞的藥品呢？ 要知道，很多藥的風險非常高。有時候，使用它只能聽天由命。我希望把大膽、高風險的藥品開發轉成更可靠的方式。如果仔細想想原先的登月，真正地登陸月球，乃基於紮實的科學基礎。我們明瞭重力;我們了解空氣動力學。我們知道如何建造火箭。科學的風險得到控制。至今登月仍是個偉大的工程壯舉。但在醫學上，我們未必了解所有的定律。我們有類似重力，類似空氣動力學的所有定律嗎？我認為，以我今天所談論的技術。也許某天我們真的能夠導出那些定律來。我們能描繪、測繪生命系統的模型，找出克服疫病的方法。 内人和我有兩個年幼的孩子，身為生物工程學家，我有個心願，希望孩子的生命能比我們的更美好。我希望我們能把生物學和醫學由偶然和運氣支配的高風險努力，轉向為技藝和辛勤工作的贏面，那麼這將是一個巨大的進步。非常感謝。（掌聲）
