Talk	en	zh-tw
eddi_reader_sings_about_what_you_ve_got	"This song is one of Thomas' favorites, called ""What You Do with What You've Got."" ♫ You must know someone like him ♫ ♫ He was tall and strong and lean ♫ ♫ With a body like a greyhound ♫ ♫ and a mind so sharp and keen ♫ ♫ But his heart, just like laurel ♫ ♫ grew twisted around itself ♫ ♫ Till almost everything he did ♫ ♫ brought pain to someone else ♫ ♫ It's not just what you're born with ♫ ♫ It's what you choose to bear ♫ ♫ It's not how big your share is ♫ ♫ It's how much you can share ♫ ♫ It's not the fights you dreamed of ♫ ♫ It's those you really fought ♫ ♫ It's not what you've been given ♫ ♫ It's what you do with what you've got ♫ ♫ What's the use of two strong legs ♫ ♫ if you only run away? ♫ ♫ And what's the use of the finest voice ♫ ♫ if you've nothing good to say? ♫ ♫ What's the use of strength and muscle ♫ ♫ if you only push and shove? ♫ ♫ And what's the use of two good ears ♫ ♫ if you can't hear those you love? ♫ ♫ What's the use of two strong legs ♫ ♫ if you only run away? ♫ ♫ And what's the use of the finest voice ♫ ♫ if you've nothing good to say? ♫ ♫ What's the use of strength and muscle ♫ ♫ if you only push and shove? ♫ ♫ And what's the use of two good ears ♫ ♫ if you can't hear those you love? ♫ ♫ Between those who use their neighbors ♫ ♫ and those who use the cane ♫ ♫ Between those in constant power ♫ ♫ and those in constant pain ♫ ♫ Between those who run to glory ♫ ♫ and those who cannot run ♫ ♫ Tell me which ones are the cripples ♫ ♫ and which ones touch the sun ♫ ♫ Which ones touch the sun ♫ ♫ Which ones touch the sun ♫ (Applause) Thank you very much."	"這首是Thomas最喜愛的歌曲之一，曲名是""珍視己有並善用己才"" 你一定認識像他一樣的人 他擁有高壯精實 如獵犬般的體格 與聰穎敏銳的頭腦 但他的心, 就像月桂樹般 纏繞扭曲地生長 直到他的所做所為 傷害到他人 然而 你並非生來如此， 這是你自身的選擇。 不在於你擁有的 有多豐盛 而在於你樂於與人分享多少 不在於你空想中的人生征戰 而是在於現實生活中你實際奮鬥過的征戰 亦不在於你擁有與獲得什麼 而在於你如何 珍視己有並善用己才 徒有一雙強健的雙腿 卻只是用來逃避 何用之有? 徒有美妙的聲音 卻無法口出良言 何用之有? 徒有壯碩的力量與肌肉 卻只用來推撞他人 何用之有? 徒有好的耳力 卻無法傾聽摯愛的人所說的話語 何用之有? 徒有一雙強健的雙腿 卻只是用來逃避 何用之有? 徒有美妙的聲音 卻無法口出良言 何用之有? 徒有壯碩的力量與肌肉 卻只用來推撞他人 何用之有? 徒有好的耳力 卻無法傾聽摯愛的人所說的話語 何用之有? 在利用他人 與善用工具的人們之間 在長期擁有權勢 與長期遭受壓迫的人們之間 在追逐榮耀 與無法奔向榮耀的人們之間 請告訴我 誰是跛足者? 誰是撫觸陽光的人? 誰是撫觸陽光的人? 誰是撫觸陽光的人? 掌聲"
