Talk	en	zh-tw
edith_widder_how_we_found_the_giant_squid	"The Kraken, a beast so terrifying it was said to devour men and ships and whales, and so enormous it could be mistaken for an island. In assessing the merits of such tales, it's probably wise to keep in mind that old sailor's saw that the only difference between a fairytale and a sea story is a fairytale begins, ""Once upon a time,"" and a sea story begins, ""This ain't no shit."" (Laughter) Every fish that gets away grows with every telling of the tale. Nevertheless, there are giants in the ocean, and we now have video proof, as those of you that saw the Discovery Channel documentary are no doubt aware. I was one of the three scientists on this expedition that took place last summer off Japan. I'm the short one. The other two are Dr. Tsunemi Kubodera and Dr. Steve O'Shea. I owe my participation in this now-historic event to TED. In 2010, there was a TED event called Mission Blue held aboard the Lindblad Explorer in the Galapagos as part of the fulfillment of Sylvia Earle's TED wish. I spoke about a new way of exploring the ocean, one that focuses on attracting animals instead of scaring them away. Mike deGruy was also invited, and he spoke with great passion about his love of the ocean, and he also talked to me about applying my approach to something he's been involved with for a very long time, which is the hunt for the giant squid. It was Mike that got me invited to the squid summit, a gathering of squid experts at the Discovery Channel that summer during Shark Week. (Laughter) I gave a talk on unobtrusive viewing and optical luring of deep sea squid in which I emphasized the importance of using quiet, unobtrusive platforms for exploration. This came out of hundreds of dives I have made, farting around in the dark using these platforms, and my impression that I saw more animals working from the submersible than I did with either of the remote-operated vehicles. But that could just be because the submersible has a wider field of view. But I also felt like I saw more animals working with the Tiburon than the Ventana, two vehicles with the same field of view but different propulsion systems. So my suspicion was that it might have something to do with the amount of noise they make. So I set up a hydrophone on the bottom of the ocean, and I had each of these fly by at the same speed and distance and recorded the sound they made. The Johnson Sea-Link — (whirring noise) — which you can probably just barely hear here, uses electric thrusters — very, very quiet. The Tiburon also uses electric powered thrusters. It's also pretty quiet, but a bit noisier. (Louder whirring noise) But most deep-diving ROVs these days use hydraulics and they sound like the Ventana. (Loud beeping noise) I think that's got to be scaring a lot of animals away. So for the deep sea squid hunt, I proposed using an optical lure attached to a camera platform with no thrusters, no motors, just a battery-powered camera, and the only illumination coming from red light that's invisible to most deep-sea animals that are adapted to see primarily blue. That's visible to our eye, but it's the equivalent of infrared in the deep sea. So this camera platform, which we called the Medusa, could just be thrown off the back of the ship, attached to a float at the surface with over 2,000 feet of line, it would just float around passively carried by the currents, and the only light visible to the animals in the deep would be the blue light of the optical lure, which we called the electronic jellyfish, or e-jelly, because it was designed to imitate the bioluminescent display of the common deep sea jellyfish Atolla. Now, this pinwheel of light that the Atolla produces is known as a bioluminescent burglar alarm and is a form of defense. The reason that the electronic jellyfish worked as a lure is not because giant squid eat jellyfish, but it's because this jellyfish only resorts to producing this light when it's being chewed on by a predator and its only hope for escape may be to attract the attention of a larger predator that will attack its attacker and thereby afford it an opportunity for escape. It's a scream for help, a last-ditch attempt for escape, and a common form of defense in the deep sea. The approach worked. Whereas all previous expeditions had failed to garner a single video glimpse of the giant, we managed six, and the first triggered wild excitement. Edith Widder (on video): Oh my God. Oh my God! Are you kidding me?Other scientists: Oh ho ho! That's just hanging there. EW: It was like it was teasing us, doing a kind of fan dance — now you see me, now you don't — and we had four such teasing appearances, and then on the fifth, it came in and totally wowed us. (Music) Narrator: (Speaking in Japanese) Scientists: Ooh. Bang! Oh my God! Whoa! (Applause) EW: The full monty. What really wowed me about that was the way it came in up over the e-jelly and then attacked the enormous thing next to it, which I think it mistook for the predator on the e-jelly. But even more incredible was the footage shot from the Triton submersible. What was not mentioned in the Discovery documentary was that the bait squid that Dr. Kubodera used, a one-meter long diamondback squid had a light attached to it, a squid jig of the type that longline fishermen use, and I think it was this light that brought the giant in. Now, what you're seeing is the intensified camera's view under red light, and that's all Dr. Kubodera could see when the giant comes in here. And then he got so excited, he turned on his flashlight because he wanted to see better, and the giant didn't run away, so he risked turning on the white lights on the submersible, bringing a creature of legend from the misty history into high-resolution video. It was absolutely breathtaking, and had this animal had its feeding tentacles intact and fully extended, it would have been as tall as a two-story house. How could something that big live in our ocean and yet remain unfilmed until now? We've only explored about five percent of our ocean. There are great discoveries yet to be made down there, fantastic creatures representing millions of years of evolution and possibly bioactive compounds that could benefit us in ways that we can't even yet imagine. Yet we have spent only a tiny fraction of the money on ocean exploration that we've spent on space exploration. We need a NASA-like organization for ocean exploration, because we need to be exploring and protecting our life support systems here on Earth. We need — thank you. (Applause) Exploration is the engine that drives innovation. Innovation drives economic growth. So let's all go exploring, but let's do it in a way that doesn't scare the animals away, or, as Mike deGruy once said, ""If you want to get away from it all and see something you've never seen, or have an excellent chance of seeing something that no one's ever seen, get in a sub."" He should have been with us for this adventure. We miss him. (Applause)"	挪威海怪，一隻如此恐怖的生物據說它會吞食人、船隻和鯨魚巨大得足以讓人誤以為是一座島嶼在判斷這種傳說的真偽時最好謹記老水手所看見的童話故事和海洋傳說唯一的區別是童話故事開頭都是 「很久很久以前」海洋傳說的開頭則是「這可不是開玩笑的」(笑聲) 每一條逃脫的魚都會隨著傳說的敘述次數而逐漸變大儘管如此，大海裡仍有巨物如今我們有影片證明在地理探索頻道上看過這紀錄片的你們肯定知道 這個去年夏天在日本開始的探險旅程有三位科學家參加我是照片中最矮的那位其他兩位是窪寺恒己博士和史蒂夫歐謝亞博士 我能參與這項歷史性的事件多虧了TED在2010年，TED舉辦了一場叫做藍色使命的活動在停靠加拉巴哥群島的林德布拉德探險號舉行作為達成西維亞艾爾TED願望的一部分我提出探索大海的一個新方法其中一個重點在於吸引動物而非嚇跑牠們麥克德葛魯也受邀他激情滿懷地談論他對大海的熱愛也跟我談論如何應用我提出的方法到他參與許久了的一個項目也就是獵尋巨型烏賊是麥克讓我受邀到烏賊研討會一個地理探索頻道的烏賊專家聚會是夏天鯊魚週其中的一個節目 (笑) 我發表了一個有關無擾觀察和用光引誘深海烏賊的演講其中我強調了利用無聲、無擾的勘探平台的重要性這個結論來自我幾百次潛水的經驗利用這些平台在黑暗中四處觀察印象中我從潛水器所看到的動物比從使用遠程遙控潛水艇更多但也可能是因為潛水器有較廣的視角但我也覺得我從堤伯倫看到的動物比從維塔娜看到的更多這兩台潛水艇的視角一樣但推進系統不同 所以我懷疑可能跟他們所產生的噪音大小有關因此我在海底安裝了一個水聽器然後我讓每個潛水艇以同樣速度和距離經過並記錄他們產生的聲音約翰生連海潛水艇的聲音 —（呼呼聲噪音）—你可能幾乎聽不到它使用電動推進器 — 非常、 非常的安靜堤伯倫也使用電動推進器也是相當安靜，但噪音稍微大一些 (稍大的呼呼聲噪音)但現今能潛到最深的遠程遙控潛水艇大多使用的是水力推進器它們的聲音跟維塔娜潛水艇一樣（大聲嗶嗶噪音）我想這樣的話會嚇跑很多動物 因此針對深海烏賊的獵尋我提議使用光誘安裝在一個相機平台不用任何推進器、引擎就單純一個利用電池驅動的相機唯一的紅光光源是大部分深海動物所看不見的牠們習慣看到的是藍光我們肉眼所能看見的紅光在深海裡等於是紅外線這個我們稱為美杜莎的相機平台可以從船尾直接丟入水中以2千英呎的繩索連接水面上的浮筒它被動地被隨水流漂浮深海動物唯一可見的光源將會是光誘的藍光我們稱做「電子水母」的東西這個設計是模仿常見的深海水母 (Atolla) 的生物發光 Atolla 水母所發出的這種旋轉光被視為一種生物警報光也是一種防禦的形式電子水母之所以可以當做誘餌並不是因為巨型烏賊以水母為食而是因為這類水母只會在被捕食者咀嚼的時候才會發出這種光作為他逃生的唯一希望可能可以吸引更大的補食者來攻擊水母的攻擊者提供水母一個逃生的機會是一種救命的吶喊，逃生的最後一搏也是深海中常見的防禦形式 這種方式奏效了當以前所有的探索活動都沒能成功取得巨型烏賊的任何一個影像資料我們拍到了六個，第一個就讓我們欣喜若狂 伊迪斯威德 (影片中)：我的天。我的天啊! 你在開玩笑嗎?其他科學家：哇哈哈! 他就在那裡! 伊迪斯威德：它好像在戲弄我們，跳一種風扇舞 —你現在看得到我， 現在又看不到 —牠們這樣戲弄了我們四次後第五次，牠終於靠近，震撼了我們 (音樂) 旁白：(日語) 科學家：喔喔 砰! 我的天啊! 哇! (掌聲) 伊迪斯威德：十足震撼 讓我真正震撼的是是它靠近電子水母的方式然後攻擊旁邊的龐然大物我想他應該誤以為是電子水母的捕食者 但更令人難以置信的是從提伯倫潛水艇所拍攝的影像地理探索紀錄片沒有提到窪寺恒己博士使用的烏賊誘餌是一隻一公尺長的菱鰭烏賊利用延繩釣漁夫使用的一種烏賊釣勾將光源接在它身上我想就是這個光源把巨型烏賊吸引來的 現在你所看到的是紅光源下的強化相機影像這就是窪寺恒己博士在巨型烏賊出現時所看到他興奮到把手電筒打開想看得更清楚結果巨型烏賊並沒有逃跑所以他冒險把潛水艇的白光打開把傳說中的怪物從迷濛的歷史變成高清晰影像這實在令人驚奇不已要是這動物把牠的觸手完整完全伸展開來的話會跟兩層樓的房子一樣高 這樣一個生活在我們大海中的巨物怎麼會到今天才拍攝到？我們只探索了大海的百分之五左右海底還有很多驚奇等著被發現像是代表著數百萬年演化過程的奇妙生物或是為人類帶來意想不到的好處的生物活性化合物相較於太空探索花的錢海洋探索只花了極少的錢海洋探索需要一個像NASA這樣的組織因為我們需要探索並保護地球上的維生系統 我們需要 — 謝謝 (掌聲) 探索是推動創新的引擎創新則推動經濟的成長讓我們去探索吧但要用不嚇跑動物的方式或者 如同 麥克麥克德葛魯說的「若你想要擺脫一切去看見你從未看過的或是有絕佳的機會看到世人未曾看見的那就到潛水艇裡吧」他本該和我們一起進行這場冒險我們懷念他(掌聲)
