Talk	en	zh-tw
eduardo_briceno_how_to_get_better_at_the_things_you_care_about	"Most of us go through life trying to do our best at whatever we do, whether it's our job, family, school or anything else. I feel that way. I try my best. But some time ago, I came to a realization that I wasn't getting much better at the things I cared most about, whether it was being a husband or a friend or a professional or teammate, and I wasn't improving much at those things even though I was spending a lot of time working hard at them. I've since realized from conversations I've had and from research that this stagnation, despite hard work, turns out to be pretty common. So I'd like to share with you some insights into why that is and what we can all do about it. What I've learned is that the most effective people and teams in any domain do something we can all emulate. They go through life deliberately alternating between two zones: the learning zone and the performance zone. The learning zone is when our goal is to improve. Then we do activities designed for improvement, concentrating on what we haven't mastered yet, which means we have to expect to make mistakes, knowing that we will learn from them. That is very different from what we do when we're in our performance zone, which is when our goal is to do something as best as we can, to execute. Then we concentrate on what we have already mastered and we try to minimize mistakes. Both of these zones should be part of our lives, but being clear about when we want to be in each of them, with what goal, focus and expectations, helps us better perform and better improve. The performance zone maximizes our immediate performance, while the learning zone maximizes our growth and our future performance. The reason many of us don't improve much despite our hard work is that we tend to spend almost all of our time in the performance zone. This hinders our growth, and ironically, over the long term, also our performance. So what does the learning zone look like? Take Demosthenes, a political leader and the greatest orator and lawyer in ancient Greece. To become great, he didn't spend all his time just being an orator or a lawyer, which would be his performance zone. But instead, he did activities designed for improvement. Of course, he studied a lot. He studied law and philosophy with guidance from mentors, but he also realized that being a lawyer involved persuading other people, so he also studied great speeches and acting. To get rid of an odd habit he had of involuntarily lifting his shoulder, he practiced his speeches in front of a mirror, and he suspended a sword from the ceiling so that if he raised his shoulder, it would hurt. (Laughter) To speak more clearly despite a lisp, he went through his speeches with stones in his mouth. He built an underground room where he could practice without interruptions and not disturb other people. And since courts at the time were very noisy, he also practiced by the ocean, projecting his voice above the roar of the waves. His activities in the learning zone were very different from his activities in court, his performance zone. In the learning zone, he did what Dr. Anders Ericsson calls deliberate practice. This involves breaking down abilities into component skills, being clear about what subskill we're working to improve, like keeping our shoulders down, giving full concentration to a high level of challenge outside our comfort zone, just beyond what we can currently do, using frequent feedback with repetition and adjustments, and ideally engaging the guidance of a skilled coach, because activities designed for improvement are domain-specific, and great teachers and coaches know what those activities are and can also give us expert feedback. It is this type of practice in the learning zone which leads to substantial improvement, not just time on task performing. For example, research shows that after the first couple of years working in a profession, performance usually plateaus. This has been shown to be true in teaching, general medicine, nursing and other fields, and it happens because once we think we have become good enough, adequate, then we stop spending time in the learning zone. We focus all our time on just doing our job, performing, which turns out not to be a great way to improve. But the people who continue to spend time in the learning zone do continue to always improve. The best salespeople at least once a week do activities with the goal of improvement. They read to extend their knowledge, consult with colleagues or domain experts, try out new strategies, solicit feedback and reflect. The best chess players spend a lot of time not playing games of chess, which would be their performance zone, but trying to predict the moves grand masters made and analyzing them. Each of us has probably spent many, many, many hours typing on a computer without getting faster, but if we spent 10 to 20 minutes each day fully concentrating on typing 10 to 20 percent faster than our current reliable speed, we would get faster, especially if we also identified what mistakes we're making and practiced typing those words. That's deliberate practice. In what other parts of our lives, perhaps that we care more about, are we working hard but not improving much because we're always in the performance zone? Now, this is not to say that the performance zone has no value. It very much does. When I needed a knee surgery, I didn't tell the surgeon, ""Poke around in there and focus on what you don't know."" (Laughter) ""We'll learn from your mistakes!"" I looked for a surgeon who I felt would do a good job, and I wanted her to do a good job. Being in the performance zone allows us to get things done as best as we can. It can also be motivating, and it provides us with information to identify what to focus on next when we go back to the learning zone. So the way to high performance is to alternate between the learning zone and the performance zone, purposefully building our skills in the learning zone, then applying those skills in the performance zone. When Beyoncé is on tour, during the concert, she's in her performance zone, but every night when she gets back to the hotel room, she goes right back into her learning zone. She watches a video of the show that just ended. She identifies opportunities for improvement, for herself, her dancers and her camera staff. And the next morning, everyone receives pages of notes with what to adjust, which they then work on during the day before the next performance. It's a spiral to ever-increasing capabilities, but we need to know when we seek to learn, and when we seek to perform, and while we want to spend time doing both, the more time we spend in the learning zone, the more we'll improve. So how can we spend more time in the learning zone? First, we must believe and understand that we can improve, what we call a growth mindset. Second, we must want to improve at that particular skill. There has to be a purpose we care about, because it takes time and effort. Third, we must have an idea about how to improve, what we can do to improve, not how I used to practice the guitar as a teenager, performing songs over and over again, but doing deliberate practice. And fourth, we must be in a low-stakes situation, because if mistakes are to be expected, then the consequence of making them must not be catastrophic, or even very significant. A tightrope walker doesn't practice new tricks without a net underneath, and an athlete wouldn't set out to first try a new move during a championship match. One reason that in our lives we spend so much time in the performance zone is that our environments often are, unnecessarily, high stakes. We create social risks for one another, even in schools which are supposed to be all about learning, and I'm not talking about standardized tests. I mean that every minute of every day, many students in elementary schools through colleges feel that if they make a mistake, others will think less of them. No wonder they're always stressed out and not taking the risks necessary for learning. But they learn that mistakes are undesirable inadvertently when teachers or parents are eager to hear just correct answers and reject mistakes rather than welcome and examine them to learn from them, or when we look for narrow responses rather than encourage more exploratory thinking that we can all learn from. When all homework or student work has a number or a letter on it, and counts towards a final grade, rather than being used for practice, mistakes, feedback and revision, we send the message that school is a performance zone. The same is true in our workplaces. In the companies I consult with, I often see flawless execution cultures which leaders foster to encourage great work. But that leads employees to stay within what they know and not try new things, so companies struggle to innovate and improve, and they fall behind. We can create more spaces for growth by starting conversations with one another about when we want to be in each zone. What do we want to get better at and how? And when do we want to execute and minimize mistakes? That way, we gain clarity about what success is, when, and how to best support one another. But what if we find ourselves in a chronic high-stakes setting and we feel we can't start those conversations yet? Then here are three things that we can still do as individuals. First, we can create low-stakes islands in an otherwise high-stakes sea. These are spaces where mistakes have little consequence. For example, we might find a mentor or a trusted colleague with whom we can exchange ideas or have vulnerable conversations or even role-play. Or we can ask for feedback-oriented meetings as projects progress. Or we can set aside time to read or watch videos or take online courses. Those are just some examples. Second, we can execute and perform as we're expected, but then reflect on what we could do better next time, like Beyoncé does, and we can observe and emulate experts. The observation, reflection and adjustment is a learning zone. And finally, we can lead and lower the stakes for others by sharing what we want to get better at, by asking questions about what we don't know, by soliciting feedback and by sharing our mistakes and what we've learned from them, so that others can feel safe to do the same. Real confidence is about modeling ongoing learning. What if, instead of spending our lives doing, doing, doing, performing, performing, performing, we spent more time exploring, asking, listening, experimenting, reflecting, striving and becoming? What if we each always had something we were working to improve? What if we created more low-stakes islands and waters? And what if we got clear, within ourselves and with our teammates, about when we seek to learn and when we seek to perform, so that our efforts can become more consequential, our improvement never-ending and our best even better? Thank you."	大多數人在生活中都會嘗試把每件事做到最好，無論是在職場上、家庭、學校或其它領域。我也有同感，也會努力嘗試。但前一段時間，我開始意識到，我總是無法在自己最在意的事情上做得更好。比如做一個好丈夫或好朋友，一名專業人士或好隊友，我一直無法在這些事情上有很大的提升，哪怕我花了很多時間努力完成。我之後在與他人的談話和研究中意識到，無論你多努力，這種瓶頸總是一直出現。 所以我想跟各位分享一些見解，並提出一些解決的辦法。我所了解的是，無論哪個領域，各行業的佼佼者都有可以讓我們仿效的地方。我發現，他們在日常生活中會有意識地在這兩種狀態中切換，學習狀態和執行狀態， 在學習狀態，我們的技能可以進步。我們會透過設計過的活動來提升技能。專注于尚未掌握的事情，這意味著我們一定會有失誤，但我們也一定能從中學到東西。這跟我們執行狀態時所做的事情很不一樣，執行狀態的目的是把我們最好的一面表現出來。我們會專注在已經掌握好的技能，並把失誤減到最小。 這兩種狀態都是我們生活的一部分，但當你想要自在的處在這兩種狀態，你得清楚知道你的目標、關注點、預期效果是什麼，這樣才能幫助你在執行和改進方面都做得更好。執行狀態注重當下的表現，學習狀態會加速人的成長，並且提升未來的表現。很多人，無論如何努力都沒辦法有所提高。原因在於：我們總是花費太多時間在執行狀態。這樣會阻礙成長。諷刺的是，長時間下來，也會引響我們的表現。 那麽，學習狀態是怎樣的情況？來看看狄摩西尼，這位政治領袖，古希臘最偉大的演説家和律師。他會偉大的原因，不是因爲他把時間都花在演説和執行律師業務上面，也就是說他不會一直處在執行狀態。相反的，他做了很多改善的活動。毋庸置疑，他花很多時間在學習。比如他在精神導師的指導下學習法律及哲學，但他也同時意識到，作爲律師他需要説服別人，所以他也研究名人的演講及學習演戲。爲了改變不由自主聳肩的壞習慣，他會在鏡子前練習演說，並且在天花板上吊一把劍。一旦聳肩，他就會被刺到。 （觀衆笑） 爲了克服口齒不清，他會含著石頭練習演講。他還建了一個地下室，以避免練習時被打擾或打擾到別人。因爲上法院時會很吵，所以他就對著大海練習，讓自己的聲音比咆哮的海浪還大聲。 他在學習狀態所做的活動與他在法院上執行的活動，兩者是很不一樣的。他在學習狀態時，會做安德森·愛立信博士所說的「循序漸進的練習」。就是把要學習的技能拆分成一小段一小段的技能，並且清楚地知道哪一項技巧目前需要提高。像是放鬆肩膀，全新專注在舒適圈以外更高層次的挑戰，專注超越那些早已掌握的事物。 利用快速反饋做重複練習和調整，全力配合熟手教練的指導。因爲，為改善而設計的活動是有特定範圍的，好的老師或教練知道什麽活動能帶來進步，並會給予專業的反饋。就是在這種學習狀態下的練習，才能大量的進步，而不是只是花時間在執行業務上。舉個例子，研究表明，在某一領域工作數年後，表現會達到停滯期。這在教學、一般內科、護理及其他領域都得到了印證。這是因爲一旦人們覺得自己足夠好了，綽綽有餘了，就不會再花時間學習。我們只會關注在如何完成工作和執行業務上，這種方式變得不利於提高技能。但是那些一直在學習的人們，就會持續地成長。最好的銷售人員，至少每週一次，進行改善訓練。他們閲讀以增長知識，諮詢同行和專家、嘗試新的策略、徵詢意見及反思。最好的棋手，大部分的時間，並不是在跟別人下棋，也就是他們不會一直處在執行的狀態，而是試圖預測並分析大師們的棋路。每個人可能都花了很多時間在電腦前打字，但卻沒有越打越快。但是，如果我們每天抽出 10-20 分鐘，全神貫注地提升打字速度，比平常快上 10%-20% 就好，我們的速度就會越來越快。特別是當我們能找到失誤，並且專注加以練習。這就是一種循序漸進（刻意）的練習。 在生活的其他方面，還有哪些是我們比較在意，我們很努力但進步緩慢的地方？是不是因爲我們老是停留在執行狀態裡？但以上都不是在說執行狀態沒有用，它是很有價值的。但我需要做膝蓋手術的時候，我可不想告訴醫師：「隨便戳戳吧，探索一下你不知道的事。」 （觀衆笑） 「我們可以從失誤中學到東西啊！」我會找一位我認爲夠好的醫師，我想讓她好好地幫我醫治。在執行狀態時，我們會力求表現到最好，這樣可以激勵我們，並告訴我們，在回到學習狀態的時候，該關注些什麽。所以說，想要表現得好需要在學習狀態和執行狀態之間轉換。在學習狀態下有目的性地積累技巧，然後再將之應用在執行狀態裡。 就像碧昂斯的巡演，演唱會上，她處在執行表演的狀態，但每晚回到酒店，她就直接投入到學習狀態裡。她會觀看剛剛結束的表演，爲自己、舞群和攝像師，尋找改進的機會。第二天早上，所有人都會收到一份通知，上面寫著那些地方需要改進，如此團隊成員就可以在下一次表演之前做出調整。如此團隊的能力就可以一直向上提升。但我們需要清楚的是，何時「學」、何時「做」，何時兩樣一起。投入越多時間在學習狀態，就能取得越多的進步。 那麽我們要怎樣才能多花點時間在學習狀態呢？首先，要相信並理解一件事，那就是我們可以改進，也就是所謂的「成長心態」。其次，要在具體的技巧上做改進。並且要有一個我們在乎的目標，因爲它需要時間和努力。第三，我們必須要知道該如何提升，要做些什麽來提升，而不是像我年輕時彈吉它那樣，同首曲子一遍又一遍的重複，而是要做「循序漸進的練習」。第四，我們必須保持在低風險狀態，因爲如果如預期的發生了失誤，那麽造成的後果就不會影響太大，或是關係重大。走鋼絲的演員，不會在沒有護網的情況下練習新的技巧；運動員並不會在冠軍比賽中，嘗試新的動作。 我們在生活中，花很多時間在執行狀態裡，這箇中原因是：我們常常處在不必要的高風險環境中。我們彼此製造了社會風險。哪怕是在學校，一個被認定為純粹學習的地方，我不是在說標準測驗，我說的是學生每時每刻、從小學到大學，都會覺得別人會因為他們犯錯而輕視他們。難怪他們總是緊張兮兮，不願為學習冒必要的風險。老師、家長對正確答案趨之若鶩的態度，無意中，讓學生害怕犯錯。而不是勇於試錯、檢視過錯、並從中吸取教訓。又或者，我們只想聽「標準答案」，而不是鼓勵學生進行可以學到更多的開拓性思考。一旦學生的作業、作品都被評定等級、標上分數，最後記錄到期末成績後，它們就起不到練習、試錯、反饋和修正的作用了，我們讓孩子誤以為：學校只是個讓你表現的地方。 職場中也同樣如此。那些諮詢我的公司，我常見到領導者鼓勵推動「完美執行 」的文化。但這樣就會導致員工僅僅停留在他們已知的範疇，而不去嘗試新的事物，公司因此很難創新、進步，從而落居下風。 我們可以透過交流，為彼此開創進步的空間，聊聊我們何時應該投身于何種狀態。在哪些方面可以做得更好？何時決策、怎樣控損？如此，我們可以明確什麽是成功、何時以及如何去支持對方。 但如果我們處在長期高風險狀態下，並且無法展開這樣的交流怎麽辦？依然有三件事是可以自己著手去做的。首先，是在高風險的海洋中，開闢一塊低風險的島嶼。讓錯誤發生時不會造成嚴重的後果。比如説，我們可以找一位導師或可以信任的同事，和他們分享想法，或是接受批評。甚至角色扮演。或者是隨著項目的進展，舉辦反饋會議。又或者我們可以抽出時間去閱讀或看視頻或是參加線上課程。這只是幾個例子。第二，我們可以實踐並達成期望的表現，但事後反思如何改進，就像碧昂斯那樣。我們還可以觀察和模仿專家，這些觀察、反思、調整都能讓我們學習到很多。最後，我們可以引導並降低彼此的風險，問他們，我們在哪方面可以再取得進步，透過詢問未知的問題、徵求意見、 分享失誤，並從中汲取教訓，如此其他人也就能安心地做同樣的事。 真正的自信是對不斷學習的展示。如果，我們沒有把人生耗費在做、做、做、表現、表現、表現上，而是更多地去探索、詢問、傾聽、實踐、反思、拼命去成為想成為的人，會怎麽樣？如果我們每個人，都有某些事情讓我們可為之努力，從而提升呢？如果我們創造更多的低風險區域和環境呢？如果我們自己或整個團隊都清楚知道，何時學習、何時表現，如此我們的努力就會有更多回報，就可以精益求精，團隊就會越來越好。 謝謝。
