Talk	en	zh-tw
edward_tenner_unintended_consequences	"I didn't always love unintended consequences, but I've really learned to appreciate them. I've learned that they're really the essence of what makes for progress, even when they seem to be terrible. And I'd like to review just how unintended consequences play the part that they do. Let's go to 40,000 years before the present, to the time of the cultural explosion, when music, art, technology, so many of the things that we're enjoying today, so many of the things that are being demonstrated at TED were born. And the anthropologist Randall White has made a very interesting observation: that if our ancestors 40,000 years ago had been able to see what they had done, they wouldn't have really understood it. They were responding to immediate concerns. They were making it possible for us to do what they do, and yet, they didn't really understand how they did it. Now let's advance to 10,000 years before the present. And this is when it really gets interesting. What about the domestication of grains? What about the origins of agriculture? What would our ancestors 10,000 years ago have said if they really had technology assessment? And I could just imagine the committees reporting back to them on where agriculture was going to take humanity, at least in the next few hundred years. It was really bad news. First of all, worse nutrition, maybe shorter life spans. It was simply awful for women. The skeletal remains from that period have shown that they were grinding grain morning, noon and night. And politically, it was awful. It was the beginning of a much higher degree of inequality among people. If there had been rational technology assessment then, I think they very well might have said, ""Let's call the whole thing off."" Even now, our choices are having unintended effects. Historically, for example, chopsticks — according to one Japanese anthropologist who wrote a dissertation about it at the University of Michigan — resulted in long-term changes in the dentition, in the teeth, of the Japanese public. And we are also changing our teeth right now. There is evidence that the human mouth and teeth are growing smaller all the time. That's not necessarily a bad unintended consequence. But I think from the point of view of a Neanderthal, there would have been a lot of disapproval of the wimpish choppers that we now have. So these things are kind of relative to where you or your ancestors happen to stand. In the ancient world there was a lot of respect for unintended consequences, and there was a very healthy sense of caution, reflected in the Tree of Knowledge, in Pandora's Box, and especially in the myth of Prometheus that's been so important in recent metaphors about technology. And that's all very true. The physicians of the ancient world — especially the Egyptians, who started medicine as we know it — were very conscious of what they could and couldn't treat. And the translations of the surviving texts say, ""This I will not treat. This I cannot treat."" They were very conscious. So were the followers of Hippocrates. The Hippocratic manuscripts also — repeatedly, according to recent studies — show how important it is not to do harm. More recently, Harvey Cushing, who really developed neurosurgery as we know it, who changed it from a field of medicine that had a majority of deaths resulting from surgery to one in which there was a hopeful outlook, he was very conscious that he was not always going to do the right thing. But he did his best, and he kept meticulous records that let him transform that branch of medicine. Now if we look forward a bit to the 19th century, we find a new style of technology. What we find is, no longer simple tools, but systems. We find more and more complex arrangements of machines that make it harder and harder to diagnose what's going on. And the first people who saw that were the telegraphers of the mid-19th century, who were the original hackers. Thomas Edison would have been very, very comfortable in the atmosphere of a software firm today. And these hackers had a word for those mysterious bugs in telegraph systems that they called bugs. That was the origin of the word ""bug."" This consciousness, though, was a little slow to seep through the general population, even people who were very, very well informed. Samuel Clemens, Mark Twain, was a big investor in the most complex machine of all times — at least until 1918 — registered with the U.S. Patent Office. That was the Paige typesetter. The Paige typesetter had 18,000 parts. The patent had 64 pages of text and 271 figures. It was such a beautiful machine because it did everything that a human being did in setting type — including returning the type to its place, which was a very difficult thing. And Mark Twain, who knew all about typesetting, really was smitten by this machine. Unfortunately, he was smitten in more ways than one, because it made him bankrupt, and he had to tour the world speaking to recoup his money. And this was an important thing about 19th century technology, that all these relationships among parts could make the most brilliant idea fall apart, even when judged by the most expert people. Now there is something else, though, in the early 20th century that made things even more complicated. And that was that safety technology itself could be a source of danger. The lesson of the Titanic, for a lot of the contemporaries, was that you must have enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship. And this was the result of the tragic loss of lives of people who could not get into them. However, there was another case, the Eastland, a ship that capsized in Chicago Harbor in 1915, and it killed 841 people — that was 14 more than the passenger toll of the Titanic. The reason for it, in part, was the extra life boats that were added that made this already unstable ship even more unstable. And that again proves that when you're talking about unintended consequences, it's not that easy to know the right lessons to draw. It's really a question of the system, how the ship was loaded, the ballast and many other things. So the 20th century, then, saw how much more complex reality was, but it also saw a positive side. It saw that invention could actually benefit from emergencies. It could benefit from tragedies. And my favorite example of that — which is not really widely known as a technological miracle, but it may be one of the greatest of all times, was the scaling up of penicillin in the Second World War. Penicillin was discovered in 1928, but even by 1940, no commercially and medically useful quantities of it were being produced. A number of pharmaceutical companies were working on it. They were working on it independently, and they weren't getting anywhere. And the Government Research Bureau brought representatives together and told them that this is something that has to be done. And not only did they do it, but within two years, they scaled up penicillin from preparation in one-liter flasks to 10,000-gallon vats. That was how quickly penicillin was produced and became one of the greatest medical advances of all time. In the Second World War, too, the existence of solar radiation was demonstrated by studies of interference that was detected by the radar stations of Great Britain. So there were benefits in calamities — benefits to pure science, as well as to applied science and medicine. Now when we come to the period after the Second World War, unintended consequences get even more interesting. And my favorite example of that occurred beginning in 1976, when it was discovered that the bacteria causing Legionnaires disease had always been present in natural waters, but it was the precise temperature of the water in heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems that raised the right temperature for the maximum reproduction of Legionella bacillus. Well, technology to the rescue. So chemists got to work, and they developed a bactericide that became widely used in those systems. But something else happened in the early 1980s, and that was that there was a mysterious epidemic of failures of tape drives all over the United States. And IBM, which made them, just didn't know what to do. They commissioned a group of their best scientists to investigate, and what they found was that all these tape drives were located near ventilation ducts. What happened was the bactericide was formulated with minute traces of tin. And these tin particles were deposited on the tape heads and were crashing the tape heads. So they reformulated the bactericide. But what's interesting to me is that this was the first case of a mechanical device suffering, at least indirectly, from a human disease. So it shows that we're really all in this together. (Laughter) In fact, it also shows something interesting, that although our capabilities and technology have been expanding geometrically, unfortunately, our ability to model their long-term behavior, which has also been increasing, has been increasing only arithmetically. So one of the characteristic problems of our time is how to close this gap between capabilities and foresight. One other very positive consequence of 20th century technology, though, was the way in which other kinds of calamities could lead to positive advances. There are two historians of business at the University of Maryland, Brent Goldfarb and David Kirsch, who have done some extremely interesting work, much of it still unpublished, on the history of major innovations. They have combined the list of major innovations, and they've discovered that the greatest number, the greatest decade, for fundamental innovations, as reflected in all of the lists that others have made — a number of lists that they have merged — was the Great Depression. And nobody knows just why this was so, but one story can reflect something of it. It was the origin of the Xerox copier, which celebrated its 50th anniversary last year. And Chester Carlson, the inventor, was a patent attorney. He really was not intending to work in patent research, but he couldn't really find an alternative technical job. So this was the best job he could get. He was upset by the low quality and high cost of existing patent reproductions, and so he started to develop a system of dry photocopying, which he patented in the late 1930s — and which became the first dry photocopier that was commercially practical in 1960. So we see that sometimes, as a result of these dislocations, as a result of people leaving their original intended career and going into something else where their creativity could make a difference, that depressions and all kinds of other unfortunate events can have a paradoxically stimulating effect on creativity. What does this mean? It means, I think, that we're living in a time of unexpected possibilities. Think of the financial world, for example. The mentor of Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, developed his system of value investing as a result of his own losses in the 1929 crash. And he published that book in the early 1930s, and the book still exists in further editions and is still a fundamental textbook. So many important creative things can happen when people learn from disasters. Now think of the large and small plagues that we have now — bed bugs, killer bees, spam — and it's very possible that the solutions to those will really extend well beyond the immediate question. If we think, for example, of Louis Pasteur, who in the 1860s was asked to study the diseases of silk worms for the silk industry, and his discoveries were really the beginning of the germ theory of disease. So very often, some kind of disaster — sometimes the consequence, for example, of over-cultivation of silk worms, which was a problem in Europe at the time — can be the key to something much bigger. So this means that we need to take a different view of unintended consequences. We need to take a really positive view. We need to see what they can do for us. We need to learn from those figures that I mentioned. We need to learn, for example, from Dr. Cushing, who killed patients in the course of his early operations. He had to have some errors. He had to have some mistakes. And he learned meticulously from his mistakes. And as a result, when we say, ""This isn't brain surgery,"" that pays tribute to how difficult it was for anyone to learn from their mistakes in a field of medicine that was considered so discouraging in its prospects. And we can also remember how the pharmaceutical companies were willing to pool their knowledge, to share their knowledge, in the face of an emergency, which they hadn't really been for years and years. They might have been able to do it earlier. The message, then, for me, about unintended consequences is chaos happens; let's make better use of it. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我並不是一直很喜歡始料未及的後果，但我已經學著欣賞他們了。我已經學到這是我們進步的原動力，就算這些後果可能是很可怕的所以我想要談談這些始料未及的後果是如何扮演它們的角色的。 讓我們回到四萬年前，一段文明爆炸的時間，一段音樂、藝術、科技，這些我們現在所享受的東西，很多在TED被展示的東西開始的時代。人類學家Randall White觀察到一個很有趣的現象：就是就算我們的祖先在四萬年前已經可以看到他們做了什麼，他們仍然沒有辦法完全瞭解。他們只是對著當下的問題做反應。他們只是想要讓我們可以做到他們所做的，但他們不完全瞭解他們是如何辦到的。 現在，讓我們來到一萬年前。而這會變得很有趣。穀類是如何被馴化的？農業是如何開始的？一萬年前的人如果有科技評估報告的話他們會怎麼說？我可以想像委員會向他們報告至少在接下來的幾百年間，農業如何影響人類這真的是壞消息。第一，較差的營養，有可能會造成較短的生命。對女人來說更是糟糕。從那段時間留下的骨骸告訴我們他們從早到晚都在磨穀子。政治上也很糟糕。那是人群間更加不平等的開始。如果當時有很理性的科技評估報告，我認為他們很有可能說：「讓我們中止這個案子吧。」 就算是現在，我們的選擇仍然有很始料未及的後果。歷史上，舉例來說，筷子—根據日本人類學家在密西根大學寫的研究報告—已長期性地造成日本大眾牙齒中牙列的改變。而且我們現在也正在改變我們的牙齒。這是人類嘴巴和牙齒正在越長越小的證據。那並不表示這個始料未及的後果一定是不好的。但我認為以尼安德塔人的觀點來看，他們對於我們現在擁有的切菜器會有很多不贊成的聲音。所以這些事其實是相對的，與你和你的祖先間的關係有關。 在古早時代，大家很尊重這些始料未及的後果，且也有很健康的謹慎感，像是智慧樹，像是潘朵拉的盒子；尤其體現在普羅米修斯的神話中，亦是近幾年來常被用在科技的隱喻。而這些都是真的。遠古時代的醫生—尤其是埃及人—近代醫學的開創者—是非常謹慎地對待可以治及不可以治的課題。而在現存的文本上說到：「這個我可以治。這個我不能治。」他們是非常謹慎的。希波克拉底斯的跟隨者也是如此。根據現今的研究，希波克拉底斯的手稿一再地提到不造成傷害是多麼重要的。更近一點，哈維庫欣，也就是讓神經外科手術發展成現今樣子的人，一個完全改寫此一醫學領域的人，亦是一個從一開始大部份手術失敗到後來成為執行手術最有希望成功的人，他是非常謹慎的，但他不見得每一次都做對了。但他已經盡力了，他做了非常精細的紀錄，讓他改寫了醫學中的這個領域。 讓我們再往前看一點來到十九世紀，我們找到科技的新面貌。我們找到的是，不再使用簡單的器具，而改使用系統。我們找到愈來愈多以複雜的組合而成的機器，讓我們愈來愈難察覺到底發生了什麼事情。第一個發現這個問題的人是是十九世紀中葉的電報員，也是最早的駭客。愛迪生在現今的軟體公司應該會過得非常非常好。而這些駭客給那些電報系統中的錯誤取了名字，就叫作蟲子。這就是為什麼現在叫這些錯誤「蟲子」。這樣的想法並沒有很快的滲入大眾，就算是那些很有知識的人也沒有特別瞭解到這點。 Samuel Clemens也就是馬克吐溫是至少到1918年是美國專利局當中最複雜的機器的大投資者。那就是派及打字機。派及打字機總共有一萬八千個零件。專利總共有64頁文字和271張圖。那是個非常棒的機器，因為它做到一個人在準備模板時做的所有事情，包括把模板回覆原樣，這是件非常難的事。馬克吐溫，這個瞭解所有關於字體模板的人，非常迷戀這部機器。不幸的，他不止在一方面的痴戀著這部機器，因為這讓他破產了，所以他需要到處去演講才能賺回些錢。這對十九世紀的科技來說，是件重要的事，這些不同零件間的關係可以讓最傑出的想法崩壞，就算是最專業的人士來看亦是如此。 在二十世紀有件事發生了，讓整件事變得更複雜了。就算是在安全技術上都有可能有危險。鐵達尼號的教訓是你一定要有足夠載全船所有人的救生艇。而這是透過犧牲那些無法做到救生艇的人才得到的結果。但是，也有另外一個例子。在Eastland，1915年在芝加哥海灣有個滿載的船犧牲了841條人命，比鐵達尼號的總人數還多14人。這個意外的部份原因是船上載了太多救生艇，讓這艘不穩定的船更加的不穩定。這再次證明了在討論始料未及的後果時，很難確切知道到底應該要學到什麼。在這個案例上最重要的是船如何裝載貨物的，壓載量和其他東西的配合。 所以在二十世紀，我們看到現實是多麼複雜的，但是以一個好的方面來看的。我們看到許多發明可以在災難中受益。也可以在悲劇事件中受益。而我最喜歡的例子是—並不是大眾所認為的科技奇蹟，但有可能是古今最棒的發明之一，就是在第二次世界大戰盤尼西林的大量生產。盤尼西林在1928年被發現，但一直到1940年仍然沒有達成任何商業上或是醫學上的實用量產階段。有一些藥廠正在研究這個。他們各自對它做研究，但他們並沒有發現什麼。然後國家研究組織將這些藥廠的代表們集合起來跟他們說他們必須做些什麼。他們不但做到了，且在兩年內，將盤尼西林從一公升燒瓶製備的規模量產成一萬加侖大桶子的量。盤尼西林可以這麼快地被生產，而且成為醫學上一個無法取代的進展。同樣在第二次世界大戰，英國輻射測量中心測量到輻射干擾而證明了太陽輻射的存在。這對災害研究是有益的—對純科學有益，對應用科學有益，對醫學有益。 現在當我們來到第二次世界大戰之後的時代，無心的後果變得越來越有趣了。而我最喜歡的例子是在1976年初發生的事情。在那年初造成發現退伍軍人病的細菌一直都存在於自然水中，但在通風、空調系統中，水溫剛好被加熱至適合讓退伍軍人病菌可以大量繁殖的溫度。當然，科技來解決問題。所以化學家研究了一下，他們發明了一種殺菌劑，後來在空調系統中被廣泛使用。 但在1980年代也發生了一些事情，就是全美國的磁帶播放器都莫名其妙地突然不能用了。製造廠商ＩＢＭ完全不知道該怎麼辦。他們帶來了一組最好的科學家來研究這個問題，然後發現這些磁帶播放器都放在通風口附近。事實上是上述殺菌劑會製造微量的錫。而且這些錫粒子會附著在播放器的磁頭上讓整個磁頭壞掉。所以他們更改了殺菌劑的配方。但我覺得這個例子有趣的是這大概是第一次機械儀器因為人類疾病而受到損壞。所以這告訴我們我們跟這一切都有關。 （笑聲） 事實上，這也告訴我們另一件有趣的事，就是雖然我們的科技正在以指數成長，但不幸的，我們預測長期結果的能力卻僅僅以線性成長罷了。所以我們現今面臨的大問題是要如何縮小這兩者中間的差距。另外一個二十世紀科技的重要正面結果是這些災難可以增進正面的發展。在馬里蘭大學的兩個商業歷史學家Brent Goldfarb和David Kirsch對歷史上重要的發明做了一些大部份尚未發表的研究。他們將史上重要的發明排成一個清單，然後從他們的清單中，他們發現最多東西被發明的時代，就是在他們清單中最常出現的時代是大蕭條時期。 沒有人知道為什麼，但以下這個故事可以反映這個事實。就是全錄影印機發明者，就是去年慶祝了50週年慶的那個。Chester Carlson，一個發明家，也是一個專利律師。他事實上沒有很想要做專利研究，但他找不到其他的工作。這是他能找到最好的工作。他對現有的影印複製的低品質及高成本感到不滿，所以他開始開發一種新的影印辦法，後來他在1930年代得到了專利，也成為1960年第一個有商業價值的影印機。所以我們看到，有時候是一些不合適的事情一些人沒有做他們原本想做的工作而轉到另外一個領域，讓他們的創造力可以飛馳。也就是說挫折或是其它不幸的事件，可能會有對創造力有一些前所未有的啓發。 這是什麼意思呢？我覺得我的意思是我們正生活在一個有許多事無法預測的時代。看看現在的金融界。Benjamin Graham也就是巴菲特的導師是從1929年經濟危機的損失中發展出他的價值投資理論。而且他在1930年代早期發表了這本書，這本書到目前仍然持續改版成為重要的教科書。所以說很多的重大創意可以在人們碰到災難的時候被啓發。 現在想想我們遇到的大大小小的災難—塵蟎、虎頭蜂、垃圾郵件—很有可能這些事情的解決辦法的價值遠超過問題本身。舉例來說，如果我們說Louis Pasteur在1860年代被要求為了絲綢工業研究蠶疾病。而他的發現事實上是細菌疾病理論的開端。所以很多時候，有些災難—有時候它們的後果，像是大量繁殖家蠶，也正是那時歐洲的問題—可以是開啟另外一件更重要的事情的鑰匙。 也就是說，我們需要以不同的角度來看始料未及的後果。我們需要以一個很正面的態度來看。我們需要看到他們可以為我們做什麼。我們需要向我剛剛提到的那些人們學習。我們需要學習庫欣醫生，就是那個在早期失手殺死病人的醫生。他必須要犯過錯。他必須有這些失誤。他很細心地從這些錯誤中學習。結果，當我們說：「這不是腦部手術」時，那告訴我們一個人要在一個被認為很沒希望的醫學領域中從自我錯誤中學習有多困難。且我們需要記得藥廠如何在緊急事件發生時，將他們所知道的知識分享給大家，一件他們幾年來一直沒有做的事。他們有可能可以更早做的。 對我來說，始料未及的後果的意義是混亂是會發生的，我們只是要更妥善地運用他。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
