Talk	en	zh-tw
edward_snowden_here_s_how_we_take_back_the_internet	"Chris Anderson: The rights of citizens, the future of the Internet. So I would like to welcome to the TED stage the man behind those revelations, Ed Snowden. (Applause) Ed is in a remote location somewhere in Russia controlling this bot from his laptop, so he can see what the bot can see. Ed, welcome to the TED stage. What can you see, as a matter of fact? Edward Snowden: Ha, I can see everyone. This is amazing. (Laughter) CA: Ed, some questions for you. You've been called many things in the last few months. You've been called a whistleblower, a traitor, a hero. What words would you describe yourself with? ES: You know, everybody who is involved with this debate has been struggling over me and my personality and how to describe me. But when I think about it, this isn't the question that we should be struggling with. Who I am really doesn't matter at all. If I'm the worst person in the world, you can hate me and move on. What really matters here are the issues. What really matters here is the kind of government we want, the kind of Internet we want, the kind of relationship between people and societies. And that's what I'm hoping the debate will move towards, and we've seen that increasing over time. If I had to describe myself, I wouldn't use words like ""hero."" I wouldn't use ""patriot,"" and I wouldn't use ""traitor."" I'd say I'm an American and I'm a citizen, just like everyone else. CA: So just to give some context for those who don't know the whole story — (Applause) — this time a year ago, you were stationed in Hawaii working as a consultant to the NSA. As a sysadmin, you had access to their systems, and you began revealing certain classified documents to some handpicked journalists leading the way to June's revelations. Now, what propelled you to do this? ES: You know, when I was sitting in Hawaii, and the years before, when I was working in the intelligence community, I saw a lot of things that had disturbed me. We do a lot of good things in the intelligence community, things that need to be done, and things that help everyone. But there are also things that go too far. There are things that shouldn't be done, and decisions that were being made in secret without the public's awareness, without the public's consent, and without even our representatives in government having knowledge of these programs. When I really came to struggle with these issues, I thought to myself, how can I do this in the most responsible way, that maximizes the public benefit while minimizing the risks? And out of all the solutions that I could come up with, out of going to Congress, when there were no laws, there were no legal protections for a private employee, a contractor in intelligence like myself, there was a risk that I would be buried along with the information and the public would never find out. But the First Amendment of the United States Constitution guarantees us a free press for a reason, and that's to enable an adversarial press, to challenge the government, but also to work together with the government, to have a dialogue and debate about how we can inform the public about matters of vital importance without putting our national security at risk. And by working with journalists, by giving all of my information back to the American people, rather than trusting myself to make the decisions about publication, we've had a robust debate with a deep investment by the government that I think has resulted in a benefit for everyone. And the risks that have been threatened, the risks that have been played up by the government have never materialized. We've never seen any evidence of even a single instance of specific harm, and because of that, I'm comfortable with the decisions that I made. CA: So let me show the audience a couple of examples of what you revealed. If we could have a slide up, and Ed, I don't know whether you can see, the slides are here. This is a slide of the PRISM program, and maybe you could tell the audience what that was that was revealed. ES: The best way to understand PRISM, because there's been a little bit of controversy, is to first talk about what PRISM isn't. Much of the debate in the U.S. has been about metadata. They've said it's just metadata, it's just metadata, and they're talking about a specific legal authority called Section 215 of the Patriot Act. That allows sort of a warrantless wiretapping, mass surveillance of the entire country's phone records, things like that — who you're talking to, when you're talking to them, where you traveled. These are all metadata events. PRISM is about content. It's a program through which the government could compel corporate America, it could deputize corporate America to do its dirty work for the NSA. And even though some of these companies did resist, even though some of them — I believe Yahoo was one of them — challenged them in court, they all lost, because it was never tried by an open court. They were only tried by a secret court. And something that we've seen, something about the PRISM program that's very concerning to me is, there's been a talking point in the U.S. government where they've said 15 federal judges have reviewed these programs and found them to be lawful, but what they don't tell you is those are secret judges in a secret court based on secret interpretations of law that's considered 34,000 warrant requests over 33 years, and in 33 years only rejected 11 government requests. These aren't the people that we want deciding what the role of corporate America in a free and open Internet should be. CA: Now, this slide that we're showing here shows the dates in which different technology companies, Internet companies, are alleged to have joined the program, and where data collection began from them. Now, they have denied collaborating with the NSA. How was that data collected by the NSA? ES: Right. So the NSA's own slides refer to it as direct access. What that means to an actual NSA analyst, someone like me who was working as an intelligence analyst targeting, Chinese cyber-hackers, things like that, in Hawaii, is the provenance of that data is directly from their servers. It doesn't mean that there's a group of company representatives sitting in a smoky room with the NSA palling around and making back-room deals about how they're going to give this stuff away. Now each company handles it different ways. Some are responsible. Some are somewhat less responsible. But the bottom line is, when we talk about how this information is given, it's coming from the companies themselves. It's not stolen from the lines. But there's an important thing to remember here: even though companies pushed back, even though companies demanded, hey, let's do this through a warrant process, let's do this where we actually have some sort of legal review, some sort of basis for handing over these users' data, we saw stories in the Washington Post last year that weren't as well reported as the PRISM story that said the NSA broke in to the data center communications between Google to itself and Yahoo to itself. So even these companies that are cooperating in at least a compelled but hopefully lawful manner with the NSA, the NSA isn't satisfied with that, and because of that, we need our companies to work very hard to guarantee that they're going to represent the interests of the user, and also advocate for the rights of the users. And I think over the last year, we've seen the companies that are named on the PRISM slides take great strides to do that, and I encourage them to continue. CA: What more should they do? ES: The biggest thing that an Internet company in America can do today, right now, without consulting with lawyers, to protect the rights of users worldwide, is to enable SSL web encryption on every page you visit. The reason this matters is today, if you go to look at a copy of ""1984"" on Amazon.com, the NSA can see a record of that, the Russian intelligence service can see a record of that, the Chinese service can see a record of that, the French service, the German service, the services of Andorra. They can all see it because it's unencrypted. The world's library is Amazon.com, but not only do they not support encryption by default, you cannot choose to use encryption when browsing through books. This is something that we need to change, not just for Amazon, I don't mean to single them out, but they're a great example. All companies need to move to an encrypted browsing habit by default for all users who haven't taken any action or picked any special methods on their own. That'll increase the privacy and the rights that people enjoy worldwide. CA: Ed, come with me to this part of the stage. I want to show you the next slide here. (Applause) This is a program called Boundless Informant. What is that? ES: So, I've got to give credit to the NSA for using appropriate names on this. This is one of my favorite NSA cryptonyms. Boundless Informant is a program that the NSA hid from Congress. The NSA was previously asked by Congress, was there any ability that they had to even give a rough ballpark estimate of the amount of American communications that were being intercepted. They said no. They said, we don't track those stats, and we can't track those stats. We can't tell you how many communications we're intercepting around the world, because to tell you that would be to invade your privacy. Now, I really appreciate that sentiment from them, but the reality, when you look at this slide is, not only do they have the capability, the capability already exists. It's already in place. The NSA has its own internal data format that tracks both ends of a communication, and if it says, this communication came from America, they can tell Congress how many of those communications they have today, right now. And what Boundless Informant tells us is more communications are being intercepted in America about Americans than there are in Russia about Russians. I'm not sure that's what an intelligence agency should be aiming for. CA: Ed, there was a story broken in the Washington Post, again from your data. The headline says, ""NSA broke privacy rules thousands of times per year."" Tell us about that. ES: We also heard in Congressional testimony last year, it was an amazing thing for someone like me who came from the NSA and who's seen the actual internal documents, knows what's in them, to see officials testifying under oath that there had been no abuses, that there had been no violations of the NSA's rules, when we knew this story was coming. But what's especially interesting about this, about the fact that the NSA has violated their own rules, their own laws thousands of times in a single year, including one event by itself, one event out of those 2,776, that affected more than 3,000 people. In another event, they intercepted all the calls in Washington, D.C., by accident. What's amazing about this, this report, that didn't get that much attention, is the fact that not only were there 2,776 abuses, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Dianne Feinstein, had not seen this report until the Washington Post contacted her asking for comment on the report. And she then requested a copy from the NSA and received it, but had never seen this before that. What does that say about the state of oversight in American intelligence when the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee has no idea that the rules are being broken thousands of times every year? CA: Ed, one response to this whole debate is this: Why should we care about all this surveillance, honestly? I mean, look, if you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to worry about. What's wrong with that point of view? ES: Well, so the first thing is, you're giving up your rights. You're saying hey, you know, I don't think I'm going to need them, so I'm just going to trust that, you know, let's get rid of them, it doesn't really matter, these guys are going to do the right thing. Your rights matter because you never know when you're going to need them. Beyond that, it's a part of our cultural identity, not just in America, but in Western societies and in democratic societies around the world. People should be able to pick up the phone and to call their family, people should be able to send a text message to their loved ones, people should be able to buy a book online, they should be able to travel by train, they should be able to buy an airline ticket without wondering about how these events are going to look to an agent of the government, possibly not even your government years in the future, how they're going to be misinterpreted and what they're going to think your intentions were. We have a right to privacy. We require warrants to be based on probable cause or some kind of individualized suspicion because we recognize that trusting anybody, any government authority, with the entirety of human communications in secret and without oversight is simply too great a temptation to be ignored. CA: Some people are furious at what you've done. I heard a quote recently from Dick Cheney who said that Julian Assange was a flea bite, Edward Snowden is the lion that bit the head off the dog. He thinks you've committed one of the worst acts of betrayal in American history. What would you say to people who think that? ES: Dick Cheney's really something else. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Laughter) I think it's amazing, because at the time Julian Assange was doing some of his greatest work, Dick Cheney was saying he was going to end governments worldwide, the skies were going to ignite and the seas were going to boil off, and now he's saying it's a flea bite. So we should be suspicious about the same sort of overblown claims of damage to national security from these kind of officials. But let's assume that these people really believe this. I would argue that they have kind of a narrow conception of national security. The prerogatives of people like Dick Cheney do not keep the nation safe. The public interest is not always the same as the national interest. Going to war with people who are not our enemy in places that are not a threat doesn't make us safe, and that applies whether it's in Iraq or on the Internet. The Internet is not the enemy. Our economy is not the enemy. American businesses, Chinese businesses, and any other company out there is a part of our society. It's a part of our interconnected world. There are ties of fraternity that bond us together, and if we destroy these bonds by undermining the standards, the security, the manner of behavior, that nations and citizens all around the world expect us to abide by. CA: But it's alleged that you've stolen 1.7 million documents. It seems only a few hundred of them have been shared with journalists so far. Are there more revelations to come? ES: There are absolutely more revelations to come. I don't think there's any question that some of the most important reporting to be done is yet to come. CA: Come here, because I want to ask you about this particular revelation. Come and take a look at this. I mean, this is a story which I think for a lot of the techies in this room is the single most shocking thing that they have heard in the last few months. It's about a program called ""Bullrun."" Can you explain what that is? ES: So Bullrun, and this is again where we've got to thank the NSA for their candor, this is a program named after a Civil War battle. The British counterpart is called Edgehill, which is a U.K. civil war battle. And the reason that I believe they're named this way is because they target our own infrastructure. They're programs through which the NSA intentionally misleads corporate partners. They tell corporate partners that these are safe standards. They say hey, we need to work with you to secure your systems, but in reality, they're giving bad advice to these companies that makes them degrade the security of their services. They're building in backdoors that not only the NSA can exploit, but anyone else who has time and money to research and find it can then use to let themselves in to the world's communications. And this is really dangerous, because if we lose a single standard, if we lose the trust of something like SSL, which was specifically targeted by the Bullrun program, we will live a less safe world overall. We won't be able to access our banks and we won't be able to access commerce without worrying about people monitoring those communications or subverting them for their own ends. CA: And do those same decisions also potentially open America up to cyberattacks from other sources? ES: Absolutely. One of the problems, one of the dangerous legacies that we've seen in the post-9/11 era, is that the NSA has traditionally worn two hats. They've been in charge of offensive operations, that is hacking, but they've also been in charge of defensive operations, and traditionally they've always prioritized defense over offense based on the principle that American secrets are simply worth more. If we hack a Chinese business and steal their secrets, if we hack a government office in Berlin and steal their secrets, that has less value to the American people than making sure that the Chinese can't get access to our secrets. So by reducing the security of our communications, they're not only putting the world at risk, they're putting America at risk in a fundamental way, because intellectual property is the basis, the foundation of our economy, and if we put that at risk through weak security, we're going to be paying for it for years. CA: But they've made a calculation that it was worth doing this as part of America's defense against terrorism. Surely that makes it a price worth paying. ES: Well, when you look at the results of these programs in stopping terrorism, you will see that that's unfounded, and you don't have to take my word for it, because we've had the first open court, the first federal court that's reviewed this, outside the secrecy arrangement, called these programs Orwellian and likely unconstitutional. Congress, who has access to be briefed on these things, and now has the desire to be, has produced bills to reform it, and two independent White House panels who reviewed all of the classified evidence said these programs have never stopped a single terrorist attack that was imminent in the United States. So is it really terrorism that we're stopping? Do these programs have any value at all? I say no, and all three branches of the American government say no as well. CA: I mean, do you think there's a deeper motivation for them than the war against terrorism? ES: I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you, say again? CA: Sorry. Do you think there's a deeper motivation for them other than the war against terrorism? ES: Yeah. The bottom line is that terrorism has always been what we in the intelligence world would call a cover for action. Terrorism is something that provokes an emotional response that allows people to rationalize authorizing powers and programs that they wouldn't give otherwise. The Bullrun and Edgehill-type programs, the NSA asked for these authorities back in the 1990s. They asked the FBI to go to Congress and make the case. The FBI went to Congress and did make the case. But Congress and the American people said no. They said, it's not worth the risk to our economy. They said it's worth too much damage to our society to justify the gains. But what we saw is, in the post-9/11 era, they used secrecy and they used the justification of terrorism to start these programs in secret without asking Congress, without asking the American people, and it's that kind of government behind closed doors that we need to guard ourselves against, because it makes us less safe, and it offers no value. CA: Okay, come with me here for a sec, because I've got a more personal question for you. Speaking of terror, most people would find the situation you're in right now in Russia pretty terrifying. You obviously heard what happened, what the treatment that Bradley Manning got, Chelsea Manning as now is, and there was a story in Buzzfeed saying that there are people in the intelligence community who want you dead. How are you coping with this? How are you coping with the fear? ES: It's no mystery that there are governments out there that want to see me dead. I've made clear again and again and again that I go to sleep every morning thinking about what I can do for the American people. I don't want to harm my government. I want to help my government, but the fact that they are willing to completely ignore due process, they're willing to declare guilt without ever seeing a trial, these are things that we need to work against as a society, and say hey, this is not appropriate. We shouldn't be threatening dissidents. We shouldn't be criminalizing journalism. And whatever part I can do to see that end, I'm happy to do despite the risks. CA: So I'd actually like to get some feedback from the audience here, because I know there's widely differing reactions to Edward Snowden. Suppose you had the following two choices, right? You could view what he did as fundamentally a reckless act that has endangered America or you could view it as fundamentally a heroic act that will work towards America and the world's long-term good? Those are the two choices I'll give you. I'm curious to see who's willing to vote with the first of those, that this was a reckless act? There are some hands going up. Some hands going up. It's hard to put your hand up when the man is standing right here, but I see them. ES: I can see you. (Laughter) CA: And who goes with the second choice, the fundamentally heroic act? (Applause) (Cheers) And I think it's true to say that there are a lot of people who didn't show a hand and I think are still thinking this through, because it seems to me that the debate around you doesn't split along traditional political lines. It's not left or right, it's not really about pro-government, libertarian, or not just that. Part of it is almost a generational issue. You're part of a generation that grew up with the Internet, and it seems as if you become offended at almost a visceral level when you see something done that you think will harm the Internet. Is there some truth to that? ES: It is. I think it's very true. This is not a left or right issue. Our basic freedoms, and when I say our, I don't just mean Americans, I mean people around the world, it's not a partisan issue. These are things that all people believe, and it's up to all of us to protect them, and to people who have seen and enjoyed a free and open Internet, it's up to us to preserve that liberty for the next generation to enjoy, and if we don't change things, if we don't stand up to make the changes we need to do to keep the Internet safe, not just for us but for everyone, we're going to lose that, and that would be a tremendous loss, not just for us, but for the world. CA: Well, I have heard similar language recently from the founder of the world wide web, who I actually think is with us, Sir Tim Berners-Lee. Tim, actually, would you like to come up and say, do we have a microphone for Tim? (Applause) Tim, good to see you. Come up there. Which camp are you in, by the way, traitor, hero? I have a theory on this, but — Tim Berners-Lee: I've given much longer answers to that question, but hero, if I have to make the choice between the two. CA: And Ed, I think you've read the proposal that Sir Tim has talked about about a new Magna Carta to take back the Internet. Is that something that makes sense? ES: Absolutely. I mean, my generation, I grew up not just thinking about the Internet, but I grew up in the Internet, and although I never expected to have the chance to defend it in such a direct and practical manner and to embody it in this unusual, almost avatar manner, I think there's something poetic about the fact that one of the sons of the Internet has actually become close to the Internet as a result of their political expression. And I believe that a Magna Carta for the Internet is exactly what we need. We need to encode our values not just in writing but in the structure of the Internet, and it's something that I hope, I invite everyone in the audience, not just here in Vancouver but around the world, to join and participate in. CA: Do you have a question for Ed? TBL: Well, two questions, a general question — CA: Ed, can you still hear us? ES: Yes, I can hear you. CA: Oh, he's back. TBL: The wiretap on your line got a little interfered with for a moment. (Laughter) ES: It's a little bit of an NSA problem. TBL: So, from the 25 years, stepping back and thinking, what would you think would be the best that we could achieve from all the discussions that we have about the web we want? ES: When we think about in terms of how far we can go, I think that's a question that's really only limited by what we're willing to put into it. I think the Internet that we've enjoyed in the past has been exactly what we as not just a nation but as a people around the world need, and by cooperating, by engaging not just the technical parts of society, but as you said, the users, the people around the world who contribute through the Internet, through social media, who just check the weather, who rely on it every day as a part of their life, to champion that. We'll get not just the Internet we've had, but a better Internet, a better now, something that we can use to build a future that'll be better not just than what we hoped for but anything that we could have imagined. CA: It's 30 years ago that TED was founded, 1984. A lot of the conversation since then has been along the lines that actually George Orwell got it wrong. It's not Big Brother watching us. We, through the power of the web, and transparency, are now watching Big Brother. Your revelations kind of drove a stake through the heart of that rather optimistic view, but you still believe there's a way of doing something about that. And you do too. ES: Right, so there is an argument to be made that the powers of Big Brother have increased enormously. There was a recent legal article at Yale that established something called the Bankston-Soltani Principle, which is that our expectation of privacy is violated when the capabilities of government surveillance have become cheaper by an order of magnitude, and each time that occurs, we need to revisit and rebalance our privacy rights. Now, that hasn't happened since the government's surveillance powers have increased by several orders of magnitude, and that's why we're in the problem that we're in today, but there is still hope, because the power of individuals have also been increased by technology. I am living proof that an individual can go head to head against the most powerful adversaries and the most powerful intelligence agencies around the world and win, and I think that's something that we need to take hope from, and we need to build on to make it accessible not just to technical experts but to ordinary citizens around the world. Journalism is not a crime, communication is not a crime, and we should not be monitored in our everyday activities. CA: I'm not quite sure how you shake the hand of a bot, but I imagine it's, this is the hand right here. TBL: That'll come very soon. ES: Nice to meet you, and I hope my beam looks as nice as my view of you guys does. CA: Thank you, Tim. (Applause) I mean, The New York Times recently called for an amnesty for you. Would you welcome the chance to come back to America? ES: Absolutely. There's really no question, the principles that have been the foundation of this project have been the public interest and the principles that underly the journalistic establishment in the United States and around the world, and I think if the press is now saying, we support this, this is something that needed to happen, that's a powerful argument, but it's not the final argument, and I think that's something that public should decide. But at the same time, the government has hinted that they want some kind of deal, that they want me to compromise the journalists with which I've been working, to come back, and I want to make it very clear that I did not do this to be safe. I did this to do what was right, and I'm not going to stop my work in the public interest just to benefit myself. (Applause) CA: In the meantime, courtesy of the Internet and this technology, you're here, back in North America, not quite the U.S., Canada, in this form. I'm curious, how does that feel? ES: Canada is different than what I expected. It's a lot warmer. (Laughter) CA: At TED, the mission is ""ideas worth spreading."" If you could encapsulate it in a single idea, what is your idea worth spreading right now at this moment? ES: I would say the last year has been a reminder that democracy may die behind closed doors, but we as individuals are born behind those same closed doors, and we don't have to give up our privacy to have good government. We don't have to give up our liberty to have security. And I think by working together we can have both open government and private lives, and I look forward to working with everyone around the world to see that happen. Thank you very much. CA: Ed, thank you. (Applause)"	"克里斯‧安德森 (Chris Anderson):要談公民權還有網路的未來發展就想到這位揭露一切真相的人讓我們歡迎他上臺愛德華‧史諾登(Edward Snowden)(觀眾鼓掌)他目前藏身俄羅斯偏鄉以筆電操控這個機器人藉著機器人觀看現場愛德華，歡迎蒞臨TED講壇你目前實際能見範圍有多少？ 愛德華．史諾登：我看得到所有人好神奇！(笑聲) 克里斯：請教一下過去5個月來有各種稱呼你的方式:像告密者、叛國賊還有英雄你又是如何看待自己的？ 愛德華：所有就這件事爭論過的人總是針對我和我的人格以及如何來形容我而爭辯不休但我仔細一想這根本不該是爭辯的問題我是誰一點也不重要若我是這世上最差勁的人你們大可恨我並繼續過生活以下這些議題才是重點 :真正重要的是我們要何種政府?還有我們想要什麽樣的網路？甚至我們希望人與社會間存在何種關係?這才是我認為社會公論應該進行的方向這樣的討論趨勢也越來越明顯若要我描述自已我不會用英雄這類字眼也不會自稱愛國者或叛國賊我會說自己跟大家没兩樣都是美國公民 克里斯：為了讓不了解事件過程的人了解來龍去脈（掌聲響起）一年前的此時你還是美國國家安全局派駐夏威夷的顧問因為你是系統管理師有權限進入該局系統所以你將特定機密檔案透露給指定的媒體在2013年6月率先揭發內幕這樣做是基於何種動機？愛德華：你知道嗎?多年前我派駐夏威夷從事情治工作時見過不少讓我不安的事我們在情治單位其實也有不少貢獻而且都是必要對公眾有益的但也有過分踰矩的作為更有一些根本不該去做的事還有黑箱決策大眾根本不知情更別說同意就連代表民意的國會議員也被矇在鼓裡當這些問題讓我陷入天人交戰時我暗自思索該怎樣以最負責任的方式為大眾謀取最大福利並將風險減到最低？不管是我自己絞盡腦汁想辦法也好透過國會程序也好由於事發當時還沒有相關條文也沒有法律救濟來保護像我這樣的體制外僱員像我一樣的情報單位合約僱員只要有動作就有和情報一起消失的危險大眾永遠不會知情但美國憲法第一修正案保障新聞自由的原因就是要賦予媒體抗辯權能夠挑戰政府的作為同時也與政府合作就如何在不危及國家安全的條件下告知大眾切身攸關的大事進行對談與辯論靠著與媒體記者合作我將掌握到的資訊歸還美國人民而非靠我自己判斷是否要公開大家對此已經有過相當踴躍的辯論政府方面的鼓勵大家關心的投入也不惶多讓我認為這對大家都好而那些政府警告和過分強調的種種危機從來沒應驗過目前從未有證據顯示任何相關危害的案例正因如此我對自己的決定很放心 克里斯：我想讓觀眾看一下兩個你揭發過的案例可以幫我放一下投影片嗎？不知愛德華你是否看得到?投影片巳打在瑩幕上這張是有關稜鏡計畫 (PRISM) 的也許你可以跟觀眾解釋已公開的資訊有哪些內容愛德華：因為有些爭議 所以了解此計畫最好的方式就是先排除不相關的部份在美國引發辯論的大多是中繼資料 (metadata)官方也始終宣稱只是中繼資料目前他們援引的法理是《愛國者法案》第215款該條文形同容許非法監聽並能廣泛地監控全國通聯紀錄或施行類似的手段像通話對象通聯時間和旅行地點都是中繼資料搜集的範圍「稜鏡」涉及的是通訊內容這計畫讓美國政府得以驅使美國企業並授權給他們為國家安全局做些不法勾當儘管有些企業確實抗拒過即使雅虎（Yahoo）等這些公司曾訴諸法律不過都鍛羽而歸因為都不是在公開庭審理而僅以不公開方式進行審判我們目睹過稜鏡計畫中的某些部分有些部分格外令我憂心美國政府內部曾存在一種論據說有15位聯邦法官重審過這些計畫並判決計劃屬於合法行動不過政府不會告訴你審判程序其實是秘密進行在不公開庭當中基於政府對法律的片面解讀過去33年中政府申請過3萬4千筆搜索票33年中僅有11件申請被駁回我們認為不應該由這些仲裁者決定美國企業在自由開放的網路中扮演的角色克里斯：接下來的投影片顯示各家科技和網路公司據傳涉入稜鏡計畫 以及資料蒐集活動起始的日期不過他們都否認與美國國家安全局合作到底國家安全局是怎樣蒐集資料的？愛德華：是這樣的，在他們的簡報中這叫遠端存取對我們美國國安局情報分析師 也就是像我一樣分析情報資料例如在夏威夷鎖定中國網路駭客或做其他類似工作的人來說遠端存取就是直接從他人伺服器攫取資料這並不表示有一大群公司代表與國安局的人同坐在煙霧繚繞的房間裡套交情搞暗盤商議著該如何移轉資料各公司的做法都有所不同有些採取負責任的方式有些就比較輕忽不過重點是當談到資料如何移轉其實是公司自己交出的並非從線上竊取不過有一點是必須記得的就算公司抵制這樣的做法甚至要求依法行事，像是「我們透過正當搜索程序來進行吧」「就這麼辦吧！」為此我們真的研究過相關法律好確定交出資料是合法的關於這些用戶資訊去年華盛頓郵報就報過了好幾則不過稜鏡計畫的報導比較精彩其中提到美國國安局侵入企業資訊伺服器中心竊取Google內部的資訊溝通對雅虎也如法炮製有此可見，即使公司勉強在法律邊緣配合美國國安局行事但國安局要得其實更多因此我們呼籲公司竭盡全力確保他們會堅守捍衛使用權利益的立場並且極力倡導使用者的權益維護去年一整年我都在想剛才那張稜鏡計畫簡報點名的公司已經放手去做這件事而我鼓勵他們持續下去克里斯：他們還有哪些事該做？愛德華：目前美國的網路公司在保護全球用戶權利上 不需涉及法律層面 又最能著力的一點就是為每個網頁啟用傳輸安全層機制這很重要的理由是:如果今天你上亞馬遜網路書店流覽《1984》這本小說美國國安局看得到瀏覽記錄俄國也能中國也是德法也不例外甚至安道拉親王國（歐洲）都辦得到沒有加密保護就無法防範這些窺視亞馬遜是全球書庫但他們不是唯一沒預設加密保護的你甚至不能選擇以加密方式上網瀏覽書籍這樣的事必須有所改變這不是針對亞馬遜我不是要找他們碴不過他們是個明顯的例子事實上所有公司都得付出行動預設加密的網路瀏覽對尚未採取任何行動或主動使用特定措施的用戶加密可強化隱私同時保護全球用戶權利克里斯：愛德華請跟我來我想給你看下一張投影片（掌聲）這程式叫《神通線民》(Boundless Informant) 是什麼樣的程式呢？愛德華：我得佩服美國國安局取了這麼貼切的名字在他們取的代號中這算我最愛的一個 美國國安局對國會隱瞞《神通線民》這個程式美國國會質詢過國安局國家是否有能力就美國境內通訊監聽的數量作粗略的估計？國安局回答:不行 因為他們不追蹤相關統計也無法追蹤相關資料所以全球有多少通訊遭到監聽他們無可奉告因為透露這項資訊等同侵犯隱私我尊重他們對此事的意見不過實際上若你仔細研究這張投影片國安局不但早就有監聽能力而且已經這樣做了國安局內部的資料格式可監控通訊雙方若資料顯示通訊由美國本土發出國安局等便可向國會說明目前掌握多少通訊內容而「神通線民的」所透露的就是通訊內容被監聽的狀況與俄國境內的俄國人相較美國人在國內受害更深我不確定情治單位是否該致力於此克里斯：但愛德華我跟你說華盛頓郵報曾報導同樣是根據你的資料標題是這樣的： 「美國國安局觸犯隱私的頻率每年多達數千次」跟我們解釋一下吧愛德華：去年我們也參與了國會聽證會當時感覺真奇妙 !當我們來自國安局的人 以及看過實際內部文件知曉內容的人看著官員眼睜睜立誓擔保:國安局沒有濫用監聽權沒有任何違反國安局的規定與此同時，我們也知道華盛頓郵報這篇報導即將公開不過特別令人玩味的是關於國安局違反業務相關規定及法律的情形一年之中高達上千次有個特殊的個案在2,776件案例之中這個單一案件就牽連了3,000人以上在另一個事件中國安局在意外的情況下截聽到華盛頓首府的所有電話令人訝異的是這份沒有引發太多關注的報告揭露的不只是監聽權濫用案高達2,776件而是連參議院情報委員會主席黛安．范士丹(Dianne Feinstein)都沒看過該份報告直到華盛頓郵報聯絡上她請她就此發表看法她才從美國國安局要到一份副本不過之前她毫不知情美國情治單位怠忽職守的程度由此可見一般竟連參議院情報委員會主席都不知道每年有數千件的違規情事克里斯：人們對相關爭議的其中一個反應是坦白說，我們為何要在意這些監控措施？ 我的意思是，若問心無愧有什麼好擔心的？這樣的觀點有何不妥？愛德華：首先這種態度等於放棄自身權利好像在說：「我應該不需要加密功能啦，信任網路環境就好了吧不用管那麼多啦，沒什麼大不了的吧?政府會規規矩矩做事啦。」其實個人權利很重要說不定哪天會派上用場除此以外這也關係著我們的文化認同不只是美國還有整體西方社會和全球民主化社會的文化認同民眾應該能撥電話給家人民眾應該能傳送簡訊給摯愛的人們應該能上網買書坐火車旅行線上訂機票而無須顧慮未來數年內這些通訊可能會被本國政府單位甚至是外國政府窺視還有內容會如何被曲解？讓自己的意圖遭到質疑我們有權保護隱私要求正當理由的合法搜索或是針對特定人的犯罪嫌疑搜索這是因為我們了解將所有人際通訊託付給任何個人或政府而期望上述個人或政府能守密並且毫不懈怠實在是一個令人無法忽視的強大誘惑克里斯：你做的事讓某些人很憤怒我最近才聽過迪克．錢尼(Dick Cheney)的說法他說朱利安．阿桑奇(Julian Assange)像是惱人的跳蚤 反觀愛德華．史諾登卻造成莫大傷害他認為你所犯下的是一種美國有史以來惡行最重大的叛國罪對那些有同感的人你有話要說嗎？愛德華：迪克．錢尼果真很另類！（觀眾會心一笑夾雜掌聲）（笑著說）謝謝大家！ 我覺得很詫異朱利安．阿桑奇在從事一些貢獻宏偉的工作時當時迪克．錢尼說他會把所有的政府搞垮到時將風雲變色怒海翻騰現在反被說得微不足道因此對於相關官員把對國家安全危害誇大的說法我們應該有所保留不過姑且假設這些人真這麼想那我認為他們對國家安全的概念很狹隘像迪克．錢尼這些位高權重的人並未善盡保衛國家安全的重責大任大眾利益不會總是和國家利益相同跟並不敵對的他國人民交戰在不構成威脅的地域交戰不會讓大家更安全這道理不管在伊拉克還是網路上都適用網絡不是敵人美國的經濟也不是美國和中國的企業還有世界上任何公司都是我們社會的一部分構成我們所處的世界邦誼拉近我們的關係但若我們破壞那些標準、規範還有那些各國政府和公民期待我們遵守的行為規範就會破壞了這樣的關係克里斯：據傳你""盜取""了170萬份文件不過目前看來 透露給媒體的不過幾百份之後還會有更多消息曝光嗎？愛德華：當然有！我非常確定一些最關键的報告 尚未曝光克里斯：過來看！關於這個曝光的消息我有事請教你來看一下！ 接著要談的這則新聞，我認為是現場許多科技行家過去數月來所聽過最驚人的事情是有關牛奔程式（Bullrun）的你能解釋一下那是什麼嗎?愛德華：這命名同樣讓我們不得不感謝美國國安局的坦率這程式是以美國內戰的戰役名稱命名的 在英國類似的軟體叫刃峰（Edgehill）是以英國內戰戰役命名而我認為之所以如此命名是因為這些程式都鎖定國內的基礎設施美國國安局用這類軟體蓄意誤導企業伙伴他們向企業聲稱這些都是安全規範國安局說：「為了強化貴公司的系統安全，我們得合作。」不過實際上這建議很惡質這些公司被誤導後降低自身產品的安全層級他們還趁機嵌入後門程式不僅讓美國國安局有機可趁任何有時間和資金投入研究和搜尋的人都可藉此侵入全球通訊此事非同小可因為我們若没有共同基準而且因為牛奔程式衝著傳輸安全層（SSL）而來就不再信任類似的安全機制那我們身處的世界將不再那麼安全我們與銀行往來還有洽商時將不免擔心通訊已被監控或另一端為其目的搞破壞克里斯：另一個可能後果是不是會讓美國暴露於其他網路攻擊？ 愛德華：正是！其中一個問題也是911恐怖攻擊之後 遺留的一個後遺症美國國安局身兼二職一方面發動入侵網路的攻擊行動但也負責資訊國防而且照慣例他們更重視資訊國防而如此判斷的標準是美國的機密比較珍貴若入侵一家中國企業網路竊取機密或對德國政府單位施以同樣手段盗取其機密對美國人而言還不如確保中國無法對美國下手來的有價值因此通訊安全層級弱化不只增加全球風險也讓美國陷入重大危機因為智慧財產就是美國的經濟命脈若此命脈因安全太差而受遷累我們將會吃上好幾年的苦頭克里斯：不過當局計算過為了防堵恐怖主義值得放手一搏 當然這樣說風險也就不為過了愛德華：以這些方案遏止恐怖主義的成效來看就能明白這種說法毫無根據 各位也不用採信我的話因為聯邦法庭對此捨棄祕密審查首度改採公開審理後認定這些方案係屬社會控制而且可能違憲有權要求簡報說明的美國國會目前正有此意且已提案改革制度白宮的二個獨立小組審查過所有機密證據後表示相關專案對遏止美國境內迫切的恐怖攻擊毫無效果這樣我們真的在防堵恐怖行動嗎？這些方案又有何價值？我認為没有三個美國政府部門也都這麽認為克里斯：你認為除了對抗恐怖主義外他們這麼做還隱含其他動機嗎？愛德華：抱歉，我聽不到再說一次 克里斯：抱歉我是說除了對抗恐怖主義你認為他們這麼做還有其他動機嗎？ 愛德華：有的，追根究柢對情資界而言 恐怖主義向來就是掩飾行動的藉口 也是用來挑起情緒反應的方式因此特權和方案的授權本來大眾是不允許的在如此情緒下也變得理所當然美國國安局早在1990年代就要求對「牛奔」和「刃峰」這類程式予以授權他們請聯邦調查局到國會遊說而後者也照辦了可惜國會和人民不吃這套他們說：「不值得拿我們的經濟去冒險。」還說為了證明值得對社會的衝擊太大了不過911事件後我們目睹的卻是有關當局藉口恐怖主義與國家機密未經國會批准也沒徵詢美國大眾就暗中進行這些方案我們要防範的就是這種密門政治的政府因為這樣的政府讓我們更不安全也無價值可言克里斯：好，請跟我來一下我有些私人問題請教說到恐怖活動 大多數人會覺得你目前在俄國的處境十分駭人有關布拉德利．曼寧（Bradley Manning）遭受的待遇你顯然已有所聞他已改名為切爾西．曼寧（Chelsea Manning）Buzzfeed網站刊載一則新聞提到情報界有些人想要你的命你如何應付這麻煩？又該如何處理自身的恐懼？愛德華：眾所皆知有好多政府巴不得我死而我一再表明的是 每天早上我就寢時都在想能為祖國同胞做什麽我不想傷害祖國政府而且想幫忙但事實是他們寧願無視正當程序而且未經番判便將人定罪有些事，社會群體該挺身抗拒並且表態：「這麼做不對！」「我們不該威脅異議人士。」「新聞業不該被冠上罪名。」即使有風險,若能停止這一切任何事我都樂意做克里斯：我真的很想知道現場觀眾的意見因為我知道各界對愛德華．史諾登 看法頗多不同假設各位可有以下兩種選擇把愛德華所做的事當成根本就是給美國帶來危機的魯莽行為或者，也可說這是能為美國及世界的長遠利益有所貢獻的偉大英雄事蹟這是我給各位的兩個選項我很好奇誰會選第一個認為是魯莽行為的有人舉手真有幾票呢當事人在場要舉手可真難啊但的確有人這麼認為愛德華：我看得到你們這些人喔！（帶笑）克里斯：有人選第二種看法嗎?認為這行為令人欽佩的 （掌聲中夾雜著加油打氣） 真的有很多人没表態 我想還在考慮吧！ 在我看來，有關你的辯論並非以傳統的政治分野區分的非關左派右派，支持政府者自由主義者或其他種種其中有些幾乎可說是世代議題身為自小與網路為伍的一代當你見到有些事未來將對網路有所傷害你似乎變得義憤填膺 這樣說正確嗎？愛德華：我覺得這樣說很對這議題無關左派右派而是我們的基本自由這裡所說的「我們」 不只是是美國人而是全世界的人這也不是黨派議題有些事是所有人都相信而且我們都有責任保護的對目睹並享受過自由開放網路的人來說我們有責任為下一代保留享有自由的機會如果我們不做些改變如果我們不挺身促成改變為自己和所有人維護網路安全我們將失去這些那對我們和全世界而言都將是嚴重損失克里斯：這話我最近也聽過網際網路的創建者說過我想蒂姆．柏納斯李爵士（Sir Tim Berners-Lee）在場 蒂姆，您要上來說幾句嗎？能給他麥克風嗎？（掌聲）很高興看到你，蒂姆！過來一點順便問一下你是站在那一邊的？ 叛國賊或英雄？我可以說明一下，不過. . . 蒂姆．柏納斯李：我曾更詳細地回答過這問題不過若只有兩個選擇我說他是英雄 克里斯：愛德華我想你應該讀過有關蒂姆爵士提出制定新版大憲章（Magna Carta）收復網路的提議 你認為有道理嗎？愛德華：當然！我是說我們這一代－我從小到大不只想過網路也在網路世界成長儘管我從未預料會有機會以這樣直接實際的方式捍衛網路並以這種特殊而且近乎化身的方式體現網路我認為身為網路世代的一員拜其所屬世代的政治意見得以與網路臨近這還頗深遠的我相信為網路制定的大憲章正是我們所需要的我們不僅需要將價值觀訴諸文字，也要將之融入網路架構這件事我希望我邀請在座的各位觀眾加入不只是溫哥華這裡的還有全球的觀眾共襄盛舉克里斯：蒂姆你有甚麼要問愛德華嗎？蒂姆．柏納斯李：我有兩個問題請教一個普通問題－ 克里斯：愛德華你還聽得見我們說話嗎？愛德華：可以！克里斯：好，又連上了蒂姆．柏納斯李：你電話線上的竊聽器 暫時受到干擾 （笑聲） 愛德華：是有一點國安局搞出來的麻煩！蒂姆．柏納斯李：暫且撇開網路問世的這25年發展另作思考 再考量我們對於 理想網路環境的所以討論內容你認為我們應可達成的最佳境界是. . .愛德華：每當思考我們能做多少我認為這取決於 我們願意投入多少我認為過去我們享有的網路不只正是國家整體更是地球公民共同所需透過合作，並且讓社會中技術專家以外的群體也加入不過就像你提過的若全球的網路使用者無論是透過全球網路和社群媒體或只是查詢氣象的用戶也好甚至日常生活極度依賴網路的人都付出貢獻促成我們得到的網路絕非只有這樣而是更好的網路環境和現勢有了這些我們便可創造一個不僅超乎預期而且符合各種想像的未來克里斯：30年前，也就是1984TED論壇創立從那時起，許多討論便循著連喬治．歐威爾（George Orwell） 都料錯的方向發展不是我們被政府監控而是有了網路影響力和公開性我們反而得以監督政府不過這種較樂觀的看法或多或少因為你的揭發而挨了一記悶棍不過你依然相信有辦法解決而且蒂姆也能辦到愛德華：沒錯，所以說政府權力大增是有根據的耶魯大學最近發表一篇法律專文創立了一套所謂的Bankston-Soltani法則 也就是當政府監控的能力其成本降低一個級數我們對隱私的期盼便會破滅每當這種事發生，我們便要重新思考並權衡隱私權儘管政府監控的能力早已三級跳相關的省察卻從來沒發生才導致我們現在得面對這樣的問題不過事情仍有轉機因為科技個人影響力也增加了我就是活生生的例子即使單槍匹馬也可和超強勁敵與全球情報單位正面對戰最後還獲勝我認為那就是可給我們希望的利證我們需要從這點開始不只讓技術專家可利用這點甚至全世界的普通人也有機會新聞不是罪惡通訊也不是而且我們的日常活動不該受到監視克里斯：我不太確定該如何與機器人握手不過假設這有一隻手。蒂姆．柏納斯：很快就會發展出來的。愛德華：幸會了！但願我的微笑 像各位的一樣親切克里斯：謝謝你，蒂姆（掌聲）好，紐約時報最近呼籲該給你特赦你會把握機會回到美國嗎？ 愛德華：當然！ 毫無疑問地 這個提案是本著公共利益所提出的 而美國和全世界的新聞界能有如今規模也是以這個的原則為基礎我認為如果新聞業現在表態他們對此表示支持且認為特赦是必要的那的確很有說服力，不過尚未定論而我認為這必須由大眾決定不過與此同時美國政府曾暗示他們希望達成某種協議他們要我供出目前為止我合作過的那些記者作為我回國的交換條件我必須講明的是我這一路走來不是為了自保而是為所當為而且我會持續這樣做這是為了公共利益而不是為我自己的好處打算（掌聲）克里斯：現在看來拜網路及機器人科技所賜你回到北美和我們在一起不過是加拿大而不是美國而且是透過遙控機器人 我想知道你有什麼感想？愛德華：出乎意料的加拿大比我想像的溫暖多了!（笑聲）克里斯：TED論壇的宗旨是「值得傳佈的思想」 如果你能用一個概念簡述這個宗旨此時此刻您認為該傳佈何種思想？ 愛德華：我認為2013年讓我們體認到密室政治足以扼殺民主但也是這種隱密性讓個人得以誕生我們不需要放棄個人隱私來建立好政府我們也不需要放棄自由來換取安全我認為只要大家共同努力開放的政府和私生活是可以兼得的我希望能與全世界的人合作來實現這件事非常謝謝大家！克里斯：謝謝你！愛德華（掌聲）"
