Talk	en	zh-tw
edward_burtynsky_on_manufactured_landscapes	"Walk around for four months with three wishes, and all the ideas will start to percolate up. I think everybody should do it — think that you've got three wishes. And what would you do? It's actually a great exercise to really drill down to the things that you feel are important, and really reflect on the world around us. And thinking that, can an individual actually do something, or come up with something, that may actually get some traction out there and make a difference? Inspired by nature — that's the theme here. And I think, quite frankly, that's where I started. I became very interested in the landscape as a Canadian. We have this Great North. And there was a pretty small population, and my father was an avid outdoorsman. So I really had a chance to experience that. And I could never really understand exactly what it was, or how it was informing me. But what I think it was telling me is that we are this transient thing that's happening, and that the nature that you see out there — the untouched shorelines, the untouched forest that I was able to see — really bring in a sense of that geological time, that this has gone on for a long time, and we're experiencing it in a different way. And that, to me, was a reference point that I think I needed to have to be able to make the work that I did. And I did go out, and I did this picture of grasses coming through in the spring, along a roadside. This rebirth of grass. And then I went out for years trying to photograph the pristine landscape. But as a fine-art photographer I somehow felt that it wouldn't catch on out there, that there would be a problem with trying to make this as a fine-art career. And I kept being sucked into this genre of the calendar picture, or something of that nature, and I couldn't get away from it. So I started to think of, how can I rethink the landscape? I decided to rethink the landscape as the landscape that we've transformed. I had a bit of an epiphany being lost in Pennsylvania, and I took a left turn trying to get back to the highway. And I ended up in a town called Frackville. I got out of the car, and I stood up, and it was a coal-mining town. I did a 360 turnaround, and that became one of the most surreal landscapes I've ever seen. Totally transformed by man. And that got me to go out and look at mines like this, and go out and look at the largest industrial incursions in the landscape that I could find. And that became the baseline of what I was doing. And it also became the theme that I felt that I could hold onto, and not have to re-invent myself — that this theme was large enough to become a life's work, to become something that I could sink my teeth into and just research and find out where these industries are. And I think one of the things I also wanted to say in my thanks, which I kind of missed, was to thank all the corporations who helped me get in. Because it took negotiation for almost every one of these photographs — to get into that place to make those photographs, and if it wasn't for those people letting me in at the heads of those corporations, I would have never made this body of work. So in that respect, to me, I'm not against the corporation. I own a corporation. I work with them, and I feel that we all need them and they're important. But I am also for sustainability. So there's this thing that is pulling me in both directions. And I'm not making an indictment towards what's happening here, but it is a slow progression. So I started thinking, well, we live in all these ages of man: the Stone Age, and the Iron Age, and the Copper Age. And these ages of man are still at work today. But we've become totally disconnected from them. There's something that we're not seeing there. And it's a scary thing as well. Because when we start looking at the collective appetite for our lifestyles, and what we're doing to that landscape — that, to me, is something that is a very sobering moment for me to contemplate. And through my photographs, I'm hoping to be able to engage the audiences of my work, and to come up to it and not immediately be rejected by the image. Not to say, ""Oh my God, what is it?"" but to be challenged by it — to say, ""Wow, this is beautiful,"" on one level, but on the other level, ""This is scary. I shouldn't be enjoying it."" Like a forbidden pleasure. And it's that forbidden pleasure that I think is what resonates out there, and it gets people to look at these things, and it gets people to enter it. And it also, in a way, defines kind of what I feel, too — that I'm drawn to have a good life. I want a house, and I want a car. But there's this consequence out there. And how do I begin to have that attraction, repulsion? It's even in my own conscience I'm having it, and here in my work, I'm trying to build that same toggle. These things that I photographed — this tire pile here had 45 million tires in it. It was the largest one. It was only about an hour-and-a-half away from me, and it caught fire about four years ago. It's around Westley, California, around Modesto. And I decided to start looking at something that, to me, had — if the earlier work of looking at the landscape had a sense of lament to what we were doing to nature, in the recycling work that you're seeing here was starting to point to a direction. To me, it was our redemption. That in the recycling work that I was doing, I'm looking for a practice, a human activity that is sustainable. That if we keep putting things, through industrial and urban existence, back into the system — if we keep doing that — we can continue on. Of course, listening at the conference, there's many, many things that are coming. Bio-mimicry, and there's many other things that are coming on stream — nanotechnology that may also prevent us from having to go into that landscape and tear it apart. And we all look forward to those things. But in the meantime, these things are scaling up. These things are continuing to happen. What you're looking at here — I went to Bangladesh, so I started to move away from North America; I started to look at our world globally. These images of Bangladesh came out of a radio program I was listening to. They were talking about Exxon Valdez, and that there was going to be a glut of oil tankers because of the insurance industries. And that those oil tankers needed to be decommissioned, and 2004 was going to be the pinnacle. And I thought, ""My God, wouldn't that be something?"" To see the largest vessels of man being deconstructed by hand, literally, in third-world countries. So originally I was going to go to India. And I was shut out of India because of a Greenpeace situation there, and then I was able to get into Bangladesh, and saw for the first time a third world, a view of it, that I had never actually thought was possible. 130 million people living in an area the size of Wisconsin — people everywhere — the pollution was intense, and the working conditions were horrible. Here you're looking at some oil fields in California, some of the biggest oil fields. And again, I started to think that — there was another epiphany — that the whole world I was living in was a result of having plentiful oil. And that, to me, was again something that I started building on, and I continued to build on. So this is a series I'm hoping to have ready in about two or three years, under the heading of ""The Oil Party."" Because I think everything that we're involved in — our clothing, our cars, our roads, and everything — are directly a result. I'm going to move to some pictures of China. And for me China — I started photographing it four years ago, and China truly is a question of sustainability in my mind, not to mention that China, as well, has a great effect on the industries that I grew up around. I came out of a blue-collar town, a GM town, and my father worked at GM, so I was very familiar with that kind of industry and that also informed my work. But you know, to see China and the scale at which it's evolving, is quite something. So what you see here is the Three Gorges Dam, and this is the largest dam by 50 percent ever attempted by man. Most of the engineers around the world left the project because they said, ""It's just too big."" In fact, when it did actually fill with water a year and a half ago, they were able to measure a wobble within the earth as it was spinning. It took fifteen days to fill it. So this created a reservoir 600 kilometers long, one of the largest reservoirs ever created. And what was also one of the bigger projects around that was moving 13 full-size cities up out of the reservoir, and flattening all the buildings so they could make way for the ships. This is a ""before and after."" So that was before. And this is like 10 weeks later, demolished by hand. I think 11 of the buildings they used dynamite, everything else was by hand. That was 10 weeks later. And this gives you an idea. And it was all the people who lived in those homes, were the ones that were actually taking it apart and working, and getting paid per brick to take their cities apart. And these are some of the images from that. So I spent about three trips to the Three Gorges Dam, looking at that massive transformation of a landscape. And it looks like a bombed-out landscape, but it isn't. What it is, it's a landscape that is an intentional one. This is a need for power, and they're willing to go through this massive transformation, on this scale, to get that power. And again, it's actually a relief for what's going on in China because I think on the table right now, there's 27 nuclear power stations to be built. There hasn't been one built in North America for 20 years because of the ""NIMBY"" problem — ""Not In My BackYard."" But in China they're saying, ""No, we're putting in 27 in the next 10 years."" And coal-burning furnaces are going in there for hydroelectric power literally weekly. So coal itself is probably one of the largest problems. And one of the other things that happened in the Three Gorges — a lot of the agricultural land that you see there on the left was also lost; some of the most fertile agricultural land was lost in that. And 1.2 to 2 million people were relocated, depending on whose statistics you're looking at. And this is what they were building. This is Wushan, one of the largest cities that was relocated. This is the town hall for the city. And again, the rebuilding of the city — to me, it was sad to see that they didn't really grab a lot of, I guess, what we know here, in terms of urban planning. There were no parks; there were no green spaces. Very high-density living on the side of a hill. And here they had a chance to rebuild cities from the bottom up, but somehow were not connecting with them. Here is a sign that, translated, says, ""Obey the birth control law. Build our science, civilized and advanced idea of marriage and giving birth."" So here, if you look at this poster, it has all the trappings of Western culture. You're seeing the tuxedos, the bouquets. But what's really, to me, frightening about the picture and about this billboard is the refinery in the background. So it's like marrying up all the things that we have and it's an adaptation of our way of life, full stop. And again, when you start seeing that kind of embrace, and you start looking at them leading their rural lifestyle with a very, very small footprint and moving into an urban lifestyle with a much higher footprint, it starts to become very sobering. This is a shot in one of the biggest squares in Guangdong — and this is where a lot of migrant workers are coming in from the country. And there's about 130 million people in migration trying to get into urban centers at all times, and in the next 10 to 15 years, are expecting another 400 to 500 million people to migrate into the urban centers like Shanghai and the manufacturing centers. The manufacturers are — the domestics are usually — you can tell a domestic factory by the fact that they all use the same color uniforms. So this is a pink uniform at this factory. It's a shoe factory. And they have dorms for the workers. So they bring them in from the country and put them up in the dorms. This is one of the biggest shoe factories, the Yuyuan shoe factory near Shenzhen. It has 90,000 employees making shoes. This is a shift change, one of three. There's two factories of this scale in the same town. This is one with 45,000, so every lunch, there's about 12,000 coming through for lunch. They sit down; they have about 20 minutes. The next round comes in. It's an incredible workforce that's building there. Shanghai — I'm looking at the urban renewal in Shanghai, and this is a whole area that will be flattened and turned into skyscrapers in the next five years. What's also happening in Shanghai is — China is changing because this wouldn't have happened five years ago, for instance. This is a holdout. They're called dengzahoos — they're like pin tacks to the ground. They won't move. They're not negotiating. They're not getting enough, so they're not going to move. And so they're holding off until they get a deal with them. And they've been actually quite successful in getting better deals because most of them are getting a raw deal. They're being put out about two hours — the communities that have been around for literally hundreds of years, or maybe even thousands of years, are being broken up and spread across in the suburban areas outside of Shanghai. But these are a whole series of guys holding out in this reconstruction of Shanghai. Probably the largest urban-renewal project, I think, ever attempted on the planet. And then the embrace of the things that they're replacing it with — again, one of my wishes, and I never ended up going there, was to somehow tell them that there were better ways to build a house. The kinds of collisions of styles and things were quite something, and these are called the villas. And also, like right now, they're just moving. The scaffolding is still on, and this is an e-waste area, and if you looked in the foreground on the big print, you'd see that the industry — their industry — they're all recycling. So the industry's already growing around these new developments. This is a five-level bridge in Shanghai. Shanghai was a very intriguing city — it's exploding on a level that I don't think any city has experienced. In fact, even Shenzhen, the economic zone — one of the first ones — 15 years ago was about 100,000 people, and today it boasts about 10 to 11 million. So that gives you an idea of the kinds of migrations and the speed with which — this is just the taxis being built by Volkswagen. There's 9,000 of them here, and they're being built for most of the big cities, Beijing and Shanghai, Shenzhen. And this isn't even the domestic car market; this is the taxi market. And what we would see here as a suburban development — a similar thing, but they're all high-rises. So they'll put 20 or 40 up at a time, and they just go up in the same way as a single-family dwelling would go up here in an area. And the density is quite incredible. And one of the things in this picture that I wanted to point out is that when I saw these kinds of buildings, I was shocked to see that they're not using a central air-conditioning system; every window has an air conditioner in it. And I'm sure there are people here who probably know better than I do about efficiencies, but I can't imagine that every apartment having its own air conditioner is a very efficient way to cool a building on this scale. And when you start looking at that, and then you start factoring up into a city the size of Shanghai, it's literally a forest of skyscrapers. It's breathtaking, in terms of the speed at which this city is transforming. And you can see in the foreground of this picture, it's still one of the last areas that was being held up. Right now that's all cleared out — this was done about eight months ago — and high-rises are now going up into that central spot. So a skyscraper is built, literally, overnight in Shanghai. Most recently I went in, and I started looking at some of the biggest industries in China. And this is Baosteel, right outside of Shanghai. This is the coal supply for the steel factory — 18 square kilometers. It's an incredibly massive operation, I think 15,000 workers, five cupolas, and the sixth one's coming in here. So they're building very large blast furnaces to try to deal with the demand for steel in China. So this is three of the visible blast furnaces within that shot. And again, looking at these images, there's this constant, like, haze that you're seeing. This is going to show you, real time, an assembler. It's a circuit breaker. 10 hours a day at this speed. I think one of the issues that we here are facing with China, is that they're using a lot of the latest production technology. In that one, there were 400 people that worked on the floor. And I asked the manager to point out five of your fastest producers, and then I went and looked at each one of them for about 15 or 20 minutes, and picked this one woman. And it was just lightning fast; the way she was working was almost unbelievable. But that is the trick that they've got right now, that they're winning with, is that they're using all the latest technologies and extrusion machines, and bringing all the components into play, but the assembly is where they're actually bringing in — the country workers are very willing to work. They want to work. There's a massive backlog of people wanting their jobs. That condition's going to be there for the next 10 to 15 years if they realize what they want, which is, you know, 400 to 500 million more people coming into the cities. In this particular case — this is the assembly line that you saw; this is a shot of it. I had to use a very small aperture to get the depth of field. I had to have them freeze for 10 seconds to get this shot. It took me five fake tries because they were just going. To slow them down was literally impossible. They were just wound up doing these things all day long, until the manager had to, with a stern voice, say, ""Okay, everybody freeze."" It wasn't too bad, but they're driven to produce these things at an incredible rate. This is a textile mill doing synthetic silk, an oil byproduct. And what you're seeing here is, again, one of the most state-of-the-art textile mills. There are 500 of these machines; they're worth about 200,000 dollars each. So you have about 12 people running this, and they're just inspecting it — and they're just walking the lines. The machines are all running, absolutely incredible to see what the scale of industries are. And I started getting in further and further into the factories. And that's a diptych. I do a lot of pairings to try and get the sense of scale in these places. This is a line where they get the threads and they wind the threads together, pre-going into the textile mills. Here's something that's far more labor-intensive, which is the making of shoes. This floor has about 1,500 workers on this floor. The company itself had about 10,000 employees, and they're doing domestic shoes. It was very hard to get into the international companies because I had to get permission from companies like Nike and Adidas, and that's very hard to get. And they don't want to let me in. But the domestic was much easier to do. It just gives you a sense of, again — and that's where, really, the whole migration of jobs started going over to China and making the shoes. Nike was one of the early ones. It was such a high labor component to it that it made a lot of sense to go after that labor market. This is a high-tech mobile phone: Bird mobile phone, one of the largest mobile makers in China. I think mobile phone companies are popping up, literally, on a weekly basis, and they have an explosive growth in mobile phones. This is a textile where they're doing shirts — Youngor, the biggest shirt factory and clothing factory in China. And this next shot here is one of the lunchrooms. Everything is very efficient. While setting up this shot, people on average would spend eight to 10 minutes having a lunch. This was one of the biggest factories I've ever seen. They make coffeemakers here, the biggest coffeemaker and the biggest iron makers — they make 20 million of them in the world. There's 21,000 employees. This one factory — and they had several of them — is half a kilometer long. These are just recently shot — I just came back about a month ago, so you're the first ones to be seeing these, these new factory pictures I've taken. So it's taken me almost a year to gain access into these places. The other aspect of what's happening in China is that there's a real need for materials there. So a lot of the recycled materials that are collected here are being recycled and taken to China by ships. That's cubed metal. This is armatures, electrical armatures, where they're getting the copper and the high-end steel from electrical motors out, and recycling them. This is certainly connected to California and Silicon Valley. But this is what happens to most of the computers. Fifty percent of the world's computers end up in China to be recycled. It's referred to as ""e-waste"" there. And it is a bit of a problem. The way they recycle the boards is that they actually use the coal briquettes, which are used all through China, but they heat up the boards, and with pairs of pliers they pull off all the components. They're trying to get all the valued metals out of those components. But the toxic smells — when you come into a town that's actually doing this kind of burning of the boards, you can smell it a good five or 10 kilometers before you get there. Here's another operation. It's all cottage industries, so it's not big places — it's all in people's front porches, in their backyards, even in their homes they're burning boards, if there's a concern for somebody coming by — because it is considered in China to be illegal, doing it, but they can't stop the product from coming in. This portrait — I'm not usually known for portraits, but I couldn't resist this one, where she's been through Mao, and she's been through the Great Leap Forward, and the Cultural Revolution, and now she's sitting on her porch with this e-waste beside her. It's quite something. This is a road where it's been shored up by computer boards in one of the biggest towns where they're recycling. So that's the photographs that I wanted to show you. (Applause) I want to dedicate my wishes to my two girls. They've been sitting on my shoulder the whole time while I've been thinking. One's Megan, the one of the right, and Katja there. And to me the whole notion — the things I'm photographing are out of a great concern about the scale of our progress and what we call progress. And as much as there are great things around the corner — and it's palpable in this room — of all of the things that are just about to break that can solve so many problems, I'm really hoping that those things will spread around the world and will start to have a positive effect. And it isn't something that isn't just affecting our world, but it starts to go up — because I think we can start correcting our footprint and bring it down — but there's a growing footprint that's happening in Asia, and is growing at a rapid, rapid rate, and so I don't think we can equalize it. So ultimately the strategy, I think, here is that we have to be very concerned about their evolution, because it is going to be connected to our evolution as well. So part of my thinking, and part of my wishes, is sitting with these thoughts in mind, and thinking about, ""How is their life going to be when they want to have children, or when they're ready to get married 20 years from now — or whatever, 15 years from now?"" And to me that has been the core behind most of my thinking — in my work, and also for this incredible chance to have some wishes. Wish one: world-changing. I want to use my images to persuade millions of people to join in the global conversation on sustainability. And it is through communications today that I believe that that is not an unreal idea. Oh, and I went in search — I wanted to put what I had in mind, hitch it onto something. I didn't want a wish just to start from nowhere. One of them I'm starting from almost nothing, but the other one, I wanted to find out what's going on that's working right now. And Worldchanging.com is a fantastic blog, and that blog is now being visited by close to half-a-million people a month. And it just started about 14 months ago. And the beauty of what's going on there is that the tone of the conversation is the tone that I like. What they're doing there is that they're not — I think the environmental movement has failed in that it's used the stick too much; it's used the apocalyptic tone too much; it hasn't sold the positive aspects of being environmentally concerned and trying to pull us out. Whereas this conversation that is going on in this blog is about positive movements, about how to change our world in a better way, quickly. And it's looking at technology, and it's looking at new energy-saving devices, and it's looking at how to rethink and how to re-strategize the movement towards sustainability. And so for me, one of the things that I thought would be to put some of my work in the service of promoting the Worldchanging.com website. Some of you might know, he's a TEDster — Stephen Sagmeister and I are working on some layouts. And this is still in preliminary stages; these aren't the finals. But these images, with Worldchanging.com, can be placed into any kind of media. They could be posted through the Web; they could be used as a billboard or a bus shelter, or anything of that nature. So we're looking at this as trying to build out. And what we ended up discussing was that in most media you get mostly an image with a lot of text, and the text is blasted all over. What was unusual, according to Stephen, is less than five percent of ads are actually leading with image. And so in this case, because it's about a lot of these images and what they represent, and the kinds of questions they bring up, that we thought letting the images play out and bring someone to say, ""Well, what's Worldchanging.com, with these images, have to do?"" And hopefully inspire people to go to that website. So Worldchanging.com, and building that blog, and it is a blog, and I'm hoping that it isn't — I don't see it as the kind of blog where we're all going to follow each other to death. This one is one that will spoke out, and will go out, and to start reaching. Because right now there's conversations in India, in China, in South America — there's entries coming from all around the world. I think there's a chance to have a dialogue, a conversation about sustainability at Worldchanging.com. And anything that you can do to promote that would be fantastic. Wish two is more of the bottom-up, ground-up one that I'm trying to work with. And this one is: I wish to launch a groundbreaking competition that motivates kids to invest ideas on, and invent ideas on, sustainability. And one of the things that came out — Allison, who actually nominated me, said something earlier on in a brainstorming. She said that recycling in Canada had a fantastic entry into our psyche through kids between grade four and six. And you think about it, you know, grade four — my wife and I, we say age seven is the age of reason, so they're into the age of reason. And they're pre-puberty. So it's this great window where they actually are — you can influence them. You know what happens at puberty? You know, we know that from earlier presentations. So my thinking here is that we try to motivate those kids to start driving home ideas. Let them understand what sustainability is, and that they have a vested interest in it to happen. And one of the ways I thought of doing it is to use my prize, so I would take 30,000 or 40,000 dollars of the winnings, and the rest is going to be to manage this project, but to use that as prizes for kids to get into their hands. But the other thing that I thought would be fantastic was to create these — call them ""prize targets."" And so one could be for the best sustainable idea for an in-school project, the best one for a household project, or it could be the best community project for sustainability. And I also thought there should be a nice prize for the best artwork for ""In My World."" And what would happen — it's a scalable thing. And if we can get people to put in things — whether it's equipment, like a media lab, or money to make the prize significant enough — and to open it up to all the schools that are public schools, or schools that are with kids that age, and make it a wide-open competition for them to go after those prizes and to submit them. And the prize has to be a verifiable thing, so it's not about just ideas. The art pieces are about the ideas and how they present them and do them, but the actual things have to be verifiable. In that way, what's happening is that we're motivating a certain age group to start thinking. And they're going to push that up, from the bottom — up into, I believe, into the households. And parents will be reacting to it, and trying to help them with the projects. And I think it starts to motivate the whole idea towards sustainability in a very positive way, and starts to teach them. They know about recycling now, but they don't really, I think, get sustainability in all the things, and the energy footprint, and how that matters. And to teach them, to me, would be a fantastic wish, and it would be something that I would certainly put my shoulder into. And again, in ""In My World,"" the competition — we would use the artwork that comes in from that competition to promote it. And I like the words, ""in my world,"" because it gives possession of the world to the person who's doing it. It is my world; it's not someone else's. I want to help it; I want to do something with it. So I think it has a great opportunity to engage the imaginations — and great ideas, I think, come from kids — and engage their imagination into a project, and do something for schools. I think all schools could use extra equipment, extra cash — it's going to be an incentive for them to do that. And these are some of the ideas in terms of where we could possibly put in some promotion for ""In My World."" And wish three is: Imax film. So I was told I should do one for myself, and I've always wanted to actually get involved with doing something. And the scale of my work, and the kinds of ideas I'm playing with — when I first saw an Imax film, I almost immediately thought, ""There's a real resonance between what I'm trying to do and the scale of what I try to do as a photographer."" And I think there's a real possibility to reach new audiences if I had a chance. So I'm looking, really, for a mentor, because I just had my birthday. I'm 50, and I don't have time to go back to school right now — I'm too busy. So I need somebody who can put me on a quick catch-up course on how to do something like that, and lead me through the maze of how one does something like this. That would be fantastic. So those are my three wishes. (Applause)"	這四個月來我一直懷著三個願望到處奔走所有的思路都在這段時間中慢慢清晰我覺得每個人都可以學學我這麼做如果給你三個願望，你希望實現什麼？思考這樣一個問題，除了讓我們知道自己想要什麼還可以讓我們意識到自己擁有什麼思考這樣一個問題，除了能在思想上有所獲益還可以讓我們付諸行動只要行動，也許就能讓生活變得不同啓發於自然 - 是今天的主題自然啓發了我 還在加拿大時，我就迷上了千里冰封萬里雪飄的北國風光我的父親非常熱衷於戶外運動因此我從小有不少機會和他去一起體驗這片土地我也許永遠弄不清我從這段經歷之中學到了多少但是我想至少我懂得了一點在這蒼茫天地之間，我們都只不過是一個過客看著面前的大自然那些人煙罕至的海岸與森林前不見古人，後不見來者念天地之悠悠我想每個人的感受都會有所不同 我現在所做的一切便是源於當時的感受我覺得自己應該這麼做，而且也有能力這麼做於是，在一個春天的早上，我走上了自己的征途我在路上拍攝了這樣一叢野草這些原生態的風光畫面成為了我隨後幾年的拍攝重心但是作為一位攝影藝術家，我始終感覺到這樣的作品離我所要表達的內容還有一段距離同時，這樣的作品也不利於一位藝術家的職業發展長期以來我的作品總難免被人當作月曆照片或者別的類似照片於是我開始認真思考，是否應該更換自己的拍攝思路我決定重新定位自己的拍攝方式專注於那些被人類力量改造的景觀 一次我在賓夕法尼亞州迷了路啓發了我的靈感我在一個路口左轉，本以為可以回到高速公路上結果卻來到了一個叫做弗蘭克威爾的小鎮這兒曾經是一片礦區，當我下車四顧我看到了一幅前所未見的超現實場景完全被人類力量所改造的景觀在這一幕的驅使下，我開始出發在我所能找到的風景帶中尋找其它類似的礦區或大型工業痕跡這成為了我之後作品的出發點也成為了我始終堅持的作品主題這和我拍攝的初衷並不相違背追尋大型工業的足跡是一個很大的主題足夠我認認真真做上一輩子 我想藉這個機會對那些曾經幫助過我的企業表示衷心的感謝基本上，大家看到的每一張照片都需要經過協商才可能獲得拍攝許可如果不是他們的幫助如果不是企業老闆們的首肯我也許永遠無法拍攝這些作品於是我還是對它們有所尊重，我並不是反對企業我本身也是一個公司的老闆，和他們合作時我能感覺到他們對人們日常生活的重要性但同時我也注重永續發展的重要性 正是因為這一點，我最終與他們背道而馳我並不想在這裡控訴他們的所作所為因為所有這一切，並不是突然發生的於是我開始思考，人類已經走過了很多個時代石器時代，鐵器時代，青銅時代儘管這些時代留下的痕跡依舊保存著但我們已經無法從這些痕跡之中追尋那些過往的光輝這是一件非常可怕的事情當我們回過頭來看看我們需索無度的生活對這片土地帶來了什麼樣的後果我們就會突然間驚醒並思考 我希望觀眾面對我的照片時能夠感受到我這樣的感覺而不是對這些影像感到排斥與抗拒不會大叫“老天，這拍的什麼啊”而是感慨，“這一切看上去很美但這是一種殘酷的美，讓人無法安然享受”把這樣的景象當作一種美，是不道德的我想這就是我所要表達的我希望人們不光是欣賞這些作品，而是思考與體會也許你們就能明白我面對這些景象時心中的感受曾經我也堅定的相信只有有房有車的生活才叫好生活這樣想是要付出代價的我是什麼時候開始被這樣的生活所吸引?我不得不承認這讓我感到羞愧而我試圖通過自己的作品讓我有所轉變 看看這張照片，這片廢舊輪胎廠這是最大的一片廢舊輪胎廠，大約有四千五百萬隻舊輪胎這兒位於加州維斯特利，靠近莫德斯托離我家只有一個半小時路程，但四年前毀於一場大火我決定去尋訪一些類似的場景如果說以前的作品僅僅是關注自然那麼現在則是為我們的行為向自然傳達一種歉意照片中大家看到的垃圾回收站對我來說是一個好的開端，是一種救贖我把這些關於垃圾回收的作品當做是人類永續發展的一種實踐只有我們在生產生活當中持續保持發展的永續性人類才有可能繼續生存下去當然，在這次大會上我聽到了很多這方面的內容仿生學，其它學科以及奈米技術的應用都有望保護我們的大自然儘管我們的想法是好的 但與此同時環境卻在持續惡化在北美拍攝一段時間以後我開始把目光投向了世界你們現在看到的是我在孟加拉拍攝到的畫面這些畫面，這些關於孟加拉的畫面源自我聽到的一個廣播節目當時裡面談到埃克森石油公司的瓦爾迪茲油輪洩露事件由於這次事件引起的索賠事件導致了全球油輪數量需求下滑所有這些多餘的油輪都必須在2004年之前銷毀當時我想，“天啊，這也太誇張了吧”一艘艘大型油輪由人工一點點將其拆毀這一切就在第三世界國家中真實發生因此我想去印度看看這一切不過由於當地綠色環保組織的活動，我被印度拒之門外因此我將目的地改為孟加拉這是我與第三世界的第一次親密接觸這一切對我來說如此不可思議一億三千萬人，居住在和威斯康辛面積相等的一處地方到處都是人，到處都是污染工作環境極度惡劣 這是加州最大的油田之一看到這樣的場景我又萌生了新的想法我們所生存的整個世界都是建立在石油工業基礎之上因此我也想以石油作為基礎做一些新的作品這是我在未來兩到三年內想要完成的一個項目名字也許叫“石油當道”我覺得我們身邊的一切，無論衣食住行都和石油有著直接或間接的聯繫接下來讓我們看一些在中國拍攝的照片我在四年前開始拍攝中國就我看來，中國是永續發展的一個老大難問題 另外，中國還給我從小熟悉的那些產業帶來了巨大的衝擊我來自一個工業城市通用汽車是當地的支柱產業，我爸爸就為 GM 工作因此我對其非常熟悉這也同樣影響了我的作品但是同樣的行業，以中國式規模出現，就完全不同了這裡大家看到的是三峽大壩這是人類製造的最大大壩，規模超過第二名一倍以上全球大部分工程師都認為這項工程是不可能完成的原因只有一個，“這項工程太大”事實上，當這項工程於一年半前竣工蓄水人們確實能偵測到其誘發了地層深處的地震整個蓄水工程耗時十五天蓄水庫區長達六百公里這也是人類歷史上最大的水庫之一這項巨大工程同時帶來了另外一項巨大工程遷移庫區內十三個城市的所有居民並將城市搗毀為平地以便船隻通行 這是其中一個城市遷移前後的景象。剛才是遷移前。這是大約十週後的景象，基本由人工拆除我印像中有十一棟樓房在拆除過程中使用了炸藥其餘完全靠人工進行，這僅僅只用了十週時間大家可以想像正是住在這裡的居民親手將自己生活的城市拆為一地瓦礫每拆一塊石頭，他們都能獲得一定的報酬這是另外一些照片我一共用了三次旅行記錄三峽地區的大規模地貌變化這裡看上去像剛剛被轟炸，其實不是這是一片完全依靠意志而改變的土地這是何其強大的力量，才能讓他們心甘情願的承受這一切承受這樣翻天覆地的變化 不過這也許還算是好的就我所知，中國現在正計劃再建二十七座核電站北美地區已經有二十年時間沒有建立過一座核電站因為沒有人希望給自家後院放上這麼一把火但是中國可以說“不，我們就是要在十年裡再建二十七座”而且火力發電廠依舊在以每週一座的速度興建所以煤礦資源本身也是一個重大問題三峽工程導致的另一問題就是許多農田，大家可以在上圖左邊看到，永遠流失了許多最為富饒的田地，就這樣淹沒在了水下大約兩百萬人流離失所這還僅僅是官方提供的數據這是等待著他們的新居 這是巫山新縣城，最大的移民城市之一這是城市的市中心，也是縣政府所在地在城市再造過程之中，我很遺憾地發現在我看來，這些建設者們完全沒有任何我們所謂的城市規劃的概念這裡沒有公園，也沒有綠地只有密密麻麻的居民樓聳立在山丘上他們本有機會從頭建立一個美麗的城市不過似乎他們並沒有想過要這麼做 這裡是一塊標語牌，上面寫著“貫徹執行《人口與計劃生育法》樹立科學、文明、進步的婚育觀念初看這張海報，你會發現上面充滿了西方文化的誘惑西裝革履，花團錦簇但讓我感到害怕的是隱藏在海報背後的文化入侵他們彷彿在一瞬間不分香花毒草將我們的生活方式照單全收當你回過頭來重新審視他們是如何慢慢拋棄了自己舊式的田園生活大踏步地邁向西方式的城市文化你就會對這一切有一個清醒的認識 這張照片拍攝於廣東最大的廣場之一這里佈滿了進城務工的農村人口目前在中國廣大國土上大約遍布著一億三千萬外來務工人員而在未來十到十五年時間內外來務工人口可能會攀升至四到五億他們紛紛湧入上海這樣的大都市或生產製造中心這些生產製造企業通常來自本地，或者說大部分都是中國本土企業他們都習慣使用相同顏色的制服這家工廠使用的是粉紅色，這是一家鞋廠他們為員工提供宿舍員工們從全國各地的鄉村擠到這裡 這是深圳周邊最大的鞋廠之一，裕元鞋廠大約有九萬名生產員工這張照片拍攝的是換班的場景，這裡每天分為三班公司有兩個廠區，位於同一地區這裡大約有四萬五千名員工所以在午餐時間，同時進餐人數大約達到一萬二千人他們只有二十分鐘的進餐時間然後輪到下一輪工人用餐這是一股巨大的勞動力這裡是上海，一個新舊交替之中的城市這片區域很快將會被剷平五年之內，新的摩天大樓將從這裡拔地而起 這張照片同樣能顯示出上海或者說中國在另一方面的轉變如果在五年前，這樣的人是不可能出現的他們被非常形象的釘子戶他們拒絕搬遷，也拒絕妥協沒有得到足夠的好處，他們絕不會放棄自己的家只有當他們的要求被滿足，他們才會妥協和那些得到搬遷通知就拿錢走人的住戶比起來他們都得到了一筆更高額的補償金隨後這些房子也會跟著周邊那些存在了上百年甚至上千年的古樓一樣在短短兩個小時之內被夷為平地同樣的故事在上海整個週邊地區發生著這是在上海舊城重建過程中頑強堅持的一系列釘子戶我想這也許是這個星球上規模最大的一次舊城改造工程 但是他們並沒有找到一條合理的道路這是我的一個心願，同時也是我反複去那裡的目的我想要告訴他們，房子是可以建造得更好的這種四不像的風格非常值得一說他們管這樣的房子就叫做別墅這間別墅剛剛有人搬進來腳手架還沒有拆除，如果是大照片你還可以看到前景中的電子垃圾從中你可以判斷出他們的職業，一群拾荒者隨著城市化進程的慢慢推進這一行業也在蓬勃發展 這是上海的一座五層高架橋上海市一座充滿魅力的城市，也是一座高速發展的城市其發展速度之快，我想沒有任何城市可以與之媲美即使是深圳這樣一座十五年前僅有十萬人口的小漁村在成為第一批經濟特區與生產基地後今天人口數額也已增長至一億移民規模之大，發展速度之快，僅從這張圖片就可見一斑這裡一共停放了九千輛大眾汽車公司生產的計程車這些汽車將被運往北京、上海、深圳等各大城市這只是中國國內汽車市場的一個縮影僅僅是計程車車輛這是一張高速發展中的城市邊遠地帶這裡，建築業也以同樣的速度發展著二三十棟樓房同時拔地而起等待一戶戶人家蜂擁而至 照片中大家可以看到這裡的居住密度不過我在照片中想指出來的並非這一點當我看到這些建築我首先想到的是他們居然沒有中央空調每一扇窗戶都裝上了一台空調我想這裡一定有人比我更明白什麼叫做效率對於這麼大的一個小區而言我實在不覺得每家每戶各自裝上空調會更有效率當我們將這樣的景象放大到上海這樣規模的城市你就會發現目力所及之處只剩下一片鋼筋水泥的森林如此高速的城市發展速度只能用驚心動魄形容在這張照片的前景中還有一小片尚未開發的地塊八個月前那裡已經被夷為平地新的摩天大樓正從此處拔地而起用雨後春筍來形容上海的大樓建設，並不為過 最近我開始拍攝中國的一些大型工業基地例如說照片中的寶鋼集團，坐落在上海市郊這是寶鋼的煤礦供應基地，方圓十八平方公里這裡的員工很多，我想至少有一萬五千人擁有五處高爐，這裡是在建中的第六座他們正在不斷建設新的大型高爐以試圖跟上中國的鋼鐵需求在照片中可以看到三座高爐大家可以注意到，這裡的每張照片似乎都籠罩在煙塵之中接下來大家看到的是一段斷路器裝配的影片這裡的裝配工人每天需要以這樣的速度工作十個小時我想到這樣的一個問題我們在這裡談論中國的時候總是只提到他們已經擁有了最先進的生產技術 在我拍攝照片的這個地方，每層樓有四百多名工人我請他們的主管帶我去看看工作效率最高的幾名員工我在每個人前面站了十幾二十分鐘最後拍攝了上面那段影片她的操作速度之快完全令人難以想像其實中國真正所擁有的真正讓他們從東方崛起的不光是他們所擁有的高新技術與設備不光是這些設備的簡單相加而是這個國家廣大的勞動人民他們願意工作，想要工作而且還有龐大的求職大軍等在每個崗位背後如果每個人都不改變他們的想法那麼這樣的情況還要持續十到十五年時間遲早還有四五億人口會湧入城市 讓我們回到這張照片就是大家看到的這張生產線的照片在拍攝時我必須收小光圈以保證照片的清晰度所以我必須保證他們能夠十秒左右的靜止我在他們工作時一共拍攝了五張但是他們在工作狀態中很難真正固定下來因為他們已經習慣了每天緊張的工作節拍於是我只好請來一位主管，他大吼一聲“好，誰也不許動”情況不算太糟但他們被逼得得用這樣的速率工作 這是一座合成絲紡織廠的照片，是一種石油加工的副產品大家在照片中看到的紡織廠代表了當前紡織廠的最高水準這裡有五百台紡織機，每台價值二十萬美元只需要十二個人就可以管理他們只需要在生產線上來回檢查即可機器正在工作之中這樣的工業場景是非常具有震撼力的所以我接二連三走訪了一家又一家工廠把兩張照片拼在一起，我做了不少類似的處理以圖更好的表現此類場景的規模之大這裡是材料車間工廠在這裡統計材料送入紡織車間 這是一間製鞋工廠勞動力更加密集這裡大約有一千五百名工人整個工廠的員工超過一萬人主要面向國內市場想進入國際化企業拍照是非常困難的耐吉或者愛迪達這樣的公司基本不可能允許我進去拍照而且他們也不希望我進去拍照但是本土企業就容易得多這樣的工作場景遍布全中國大家可以從這些照片中體會得到耐吉是最早進入中國的製鞋企業之一勞動力成本非常高昂因此他們十分有必要選擇一個低廉的勞動力市場 這是一家高科技手機企業，波導手機他們是中國最大的手機生產廠商之一由於中國手機持有量的爆炸性增長我想目前在中國也許每週都有一家新的手機公司成立這是一家生產襯衣的紡織加工企業雅戈爾，中國最大的成衣企業之一接下來一張照片是一間食堂這裡一切都非常高效據我拍照時的觀察這裡的人進餐時間普遍為八到十分鐘這是我見過的最大一間廠房主要生產咖啡機，他們是全球最大的咖啡機製造商同時也是最大的電熨斗製造商生產量達兩千萬台這裡共有兩萬一千名員工，廠房全長半公里而這僅僅是他們諸多生產車間中的一處這些都是我最近拍攝的照片，我一個月前剛剛回來所以在座各位是第一批看到這些照片的人這些工廠的照片 我花了將近一年的時間打通關係獲准進入這些地方拍攝接下來讓我們看看中國的另一面這是一個極度渴求資源的國家因此我們這裡不少可回收資源都被收集起來裝船運往中國剛才是金屬塊，這是轉子，發電機中間的轉軸他們從發電機中將其取出回收上面的銅及其它貴重金屬這些廢品毫無疑問與加州或者矽谷有關這是大多數計算機的最終歸宿世界上大約一半的計算機最終在中國埋骨 他們管這叫做電子垃圾但是由於他們的回收方式，這些垃圾確實會造成問題煤爐在中國使用非常廣泛他們就是用煤爐加熱電路板然後把零件從電路板上拔下來從中提取有價值的金屬原料但是這麼做會產生大量的有毒氣體在從事這類行業的村莊周圍五公里或十公里的地方你就能聞到那種刺鼻的氣味這是另一處回收點他們大多是一些家庭作坊，佔地面積不大也許就是在自家門口、後院甚至是房間裡面焚燒回收這些電路板 也許有人會對此產生疑問確實這些行業在中國是違法的但事實上他們也無法制止這些行為繼續下去這是一張人像，我很少拍人像但這一張實在讓我無法自己這位老人家經歷了毛澤東時代，經歷了大躍進又經歷了文化大革命，而現在她坐在自家的院子裡旁邊堆滿了電子垃圾，這樣的場景令人唏噓這條道路兩旁堆滿了廢棄的電腦主板這是最大的一處電子垃圾回收村這就是我想給大家看的所有照片 (掌聲) 我想將我的心願獻給我的兩個女兒在我所有思考的時光中，她們一直縈繞在我的心頭右邊的是 Megan，左邊的是 Katja就我而言，所有這一切所有這些我拍攝的照片對於我們要做的事都有重大的意義而所有這一切在這一刻在這裡都變得觸手可及這一切將會改變諸多問題我希望我們所做的事情能夠對整個世界產生一些積極的影響我認為，我們不光要改變我們身邊的世界還應該積極行動起來，改變我們自己避免繼續錯下去儘管錯誤的行為還在繼續，特別在亞洲，還在愈演愈烈儘管我知道這是一件無可奈何的事情但是我想這也正是為什麼我們需要關注他們的發展因為他們的發展同時會影響到我們的發展 這一方面是我所想的內容，同時也是我的願望帶著這樣的想法我開始思考這些問題“二十年後，或者十五年後當他們開始考慮婚姻、家庭和下一代他們那時會是過著一種什麼樣的日子呢？ ”無論是思索我的作品，還是思考這樣一個難得的許願機會這一問題都是我所有思考的核心所在我的第一個心願：改變世界。我想要用我的照片讓更多人開始關心永續發展這樣一個世界性話題得益於當今傳播媒體的發達我想這並不是一個遙不可及的願望我在之前做過一些調查，我希望我的願望能夠腳踏實地的執行，而不是停留在紙上談兵 儘管目前我的願望目前還沒有實現但是我已經找到了一個正在實行中的類似行動Worldchanging.com是一個很棒的部落格成立十四個月目前每月訪問量已接近五十萬人這個網站最關鍵的一點就是他們的態度正是我所喜歡的態度他們並沒有走以前那些環保運動的老路我覺得環保運動之所以失敗主要是因為他們試圖用聳人聽聞的語調向人灌輸環境保護的大道理而不是給人們展現環境保護的積極一面讓人們試著慢慢改變而這個部落格正是在向人們展示環保行動所帶來的積極影響一些行之有效的方式，讓我們的世界變得更好包括新的技術，新的節能設備新的思路，新的策略一切和永續發展相關的舉措 而我所能做到的就是將我的作品用在網站的推廣宣傳之中也許有些人已經知道，我和Stephen Sagmeister，他也是TED的一份子共同設計了一些海報，當然這還是海報的草樣而不是最終的設計結果，這些寫有網址的圖像可以被用在任何類型的媒體上可以放在網站上海報上、公交車站或者任何其他地方這是一個起點我們的想法是這樣的大多數媒體都採用大量文字配上一副插圖到處都是文字 根據施德明的統計，只有不到百分之五的廣告是圖像主導的，十分稀少我們這樣設計是想要通過大量的圖片來傳遞信息引人思考讓人們在看到圖片的同時就會想到“Worldchanging.com，還有這些圖片，這代表什麼呢？”並希望人們能夠帶著問題打開網站儘管Worldchanging.com現在只是一個部落格但我希望他能夠更大的發展，我從不僅僅把它當做一個部落格因為這裡有我們無數人前仆後繼的努力我相信它能夠發出自己的聲音，能夠帶來自己的影響現在，就在這個網站上已經有來自印度、中國、北美的討論有來自世界各地的訪問者與信息我相信總有一天我們可以藉著Worldchanging.com實現一場關於永續發展的大對話，大討論如果你願意為促進這一切做點什麼，那真是再好不過 我的下一個願望更多是為了我們下一代考慮這個願望是：我想發起一個開創性的運動鼓勵孩子們就永續發展貢獻自己的想法這個想法是由我的提名人艾莉森在一次創意會議中提出來的在她當時談到了加拿大的垃圾回收問題的時候我突然想到了四年級到六年級之間的小朋友們大家都知道四年級，也就是七歲左右的小孩他們剛剛開始發育，也剛剛開始認識社會所以對於這個階段的小孩而言我們的言傳身教就變得很重要這一點我想大家都知道 我以我覺得我們可以從教導孩子開始讓他們從小就知道什麼是永續發展並且培養他們對永續發展的興趣我想到的一個方法就是用我得到的獎金大約三萬到四萬美元作為獎金剩下的作為管理基金啟動這一項目通過獎金激勵兒童們參與到活動中來按照我的想法活動最終可以評選出一個最佳校園永續發展建議獎一個最佳家庭永續發展建議獎以及一個最佳社區永續發展項目 同時我還想設立一個“我的世界”藝術獎這是一個彈性很大的項目如果我們能吸引一部分人為這一項目投入設備或資金就可以讓這個項目變得引人注目讓所有的學校，包括公立學校以及所有適齡兒童就讀的學校都參與到這個競賽中來從中收集參賽作品並評出名次大獎應該頒發給一個實際項目，而不是一些不切實際的想法藝術作品可以是他們的思路，或者實踐的過程但是所有的一切必須要落在實處這麼做，我們實際上是在鼓勵這樣一個年齡段的小孩開始思考通過他們來推廣永續發展的理念我相信他們的行為可以影響他們的父母，他們的家庭大人們會幫助他們參與到活動中來 而這一切最終會讓大家主動的去關注與傳播永續發展的理念也許大家都會自覺的回收垃圾我想不是所有人都會關注永續發展的方方面面並去了解永續發展的意義與影響但我很希望每個人都能理解這一點這也正是我在一直努力去做的讓我們回到“我的世界”這個比賽話題我們可以使用比賽中蒐集到的藝術作品為其作為宣傳我喜歡“我的世界”這個主題這個主題可以讓我們認識到自己是這個世界的主人這是我的世界，而不是別人的世界，我應該保護她我應該為她做些什麼我想這是一個很好的機會去鼓勵孩子們運用自己的想像力為這個項目也為自己的校園生活，貢獻一些力量我覺得每個學校都應該拿出一些經費和設備引導學生們參與到這一活動中來而我們與此同時就可以藉著這樣一些機會宣傳“我的世界”這樣一個活動 我的第三個心願是拍一部IMAX電影我一直對自己說，我應該拍一部這樣的電影，這是我一直以來的心願當我第一次看到IMAX電影，我就發現這和我的作品和我一直從事的工作，有一些相同之處我想，一切無論是內容還是形式這都與我作為一個攝影師所做的及其相似如果給我一個機會我一定會給觀眾帶來震撼的感受當然，我非常需要有人來幫幫我我剛剛過了五十歲生日，我已經沒有什麼時間花在學習上了我確實很忙，所以我需要有人可以幫我迅速掌握相關的操作技能給我的拍攝工作指出一條明路，這一定很有趣。以上，就是我的三個願望 (掌聲)
