Talk	en	zh-tw
eli_beer_the_fastest_ambulance_a_motorcycle	"This is an ambucycle. This is the fastest way to reach any medical emergency. It has everything an ambulance has except for a bed. You see the defibrillator. You see the equipment. We all saw the tragedy that happened in Boston. When I was looking at these pictures, it brought me back many years to my past when I was a child. I grew up in a small neighborhood in Jerusalem. When I was six years old, I was walking back from school on a Friday afternoon with my older brother. We were passing by a bus stop. We saw a bus blow up in front of our eyes. The bus was on fire, and many people were hurt and killed. I remembered an old man yelling to us and crying to help us get him up. He just needed someone helping him. We were so scared and we just ran away. Growing up, I decided I wanted to become a doctor and save lives. Maybe that was because of what I saw when I was a child. When I was 15, I took an EMT course, and I went to volunteer on an ambulance. For two years, I volunteered on an ambulance in Jerusalem. I helped many people, but whenever someone really needed help, I never got there in time. We never got there. The traffic is so bad. The distance, and everything. We never got there when somebody really needed us. One day, we received a call about a seven-year-old child choking from a hot dog. Traffic was horrific, and we were coming from the other side of town in the north part of Jerusalem. When we got there, 20 minutes later, we started CPR on the kid. A doctor comes in from a block away, stop us, checks the kid, and tells us to stop CPR. That second he declared this child dead. At that moment, I understood that this child died for nothing. If this doctor, who lived one block away from there, would have come 20 minutes earlier, not have to wait until that siren he heard before coming from the ambulance, if he would have heard about it way before, he would have saved this child. He could have run from a block away. He could have saved this child. I said to myself, there must be a better way. Together with 15 of my friends — we were all EMTs — we decided, let's protect our neighborhood, so when something like that happens again, we will be there running to the scene a lot before the ambulance. So I went over to the manager of the ambulance company and I told him, ""Please, whenever you have a call coming into our neighborhood, we have 15 great guys who are willing to stop everything they're doing and run and save lives. Just alert us by beeper. We'll buy these beepers, just tell your dispatch to send us the beeper, and we will run and save lives."" Well, he was laughing. I was 17 years old. I was a kid. And he said to me — I remember this like yesterday — he was a great guy, but he said to me, ""Kid, go to school, or go open a falafel stand. We're not really interested in these kinds of new adventures. We're not interested in your help."" And he threw me out of the room. ""I don't need your help,"" he said. I was a very stubborn kid. As you see now, I'm walking around like crazy, meshugenah. (Laughter) (Applause) So I decided to use the Israeli very famous technique you've probably all heard of, chutzpah. (Laughter) And the next day, I went and I bought two police scanners, and I said, ""The hell with you, if you don't want to give me information, I'll get the information myself."" And we did turns, who's going to listen to the radio scanners. The next day, while I was listening to the scanners, I heard about a call coming in of a 70-year-old man hurt by a car only one block away from me on the main street of my neighborhood. I ran there by foot. I had no medical equipment. When I got there, the 70-year-old man was lying on the floor, blood was gushing out of his neck. He was on Coumadin. I knew I had to stop his bleeding or else he would die. I took off my yarmulke, because I had no medical equipment, and with a lot of pressure, I stopped his bleeding. He was bleeding from his neck. When the ambulance arrived 15 minutes later, I gave them over a patient who was alive. (Applause) When I went to visit him two days later, he gave me a hug and was crying and thanking me for saving his life. At that moment, when I realized this is the first person I ever saved in my life after two years volunteering in an ambulance, I knew this is my life's mission. So today, 22 years later, we have United Hatzalah. (Applause) ""Hatzalah"" means ""rescue,"" for all of you who don't know Hebrew. I forgot I'm not in Israel. So we have thousands of volunteers who are passionate about saving lives, and they're spread all around, so whenever a call comes in, they just stop everything and go and run and save a life. Our average response time today went down to less than three minutes in Israel. (Applause) I'm talking about heart attacks, I'm talking about car accidents, God forbid bomb attacks, shootings, whatever it is, even a woman 3 o'clock in the morning falling in her home and needs someone to help her. Three minutes, we'll have a guy with his pajamas running to her house and helping her get up. The reasons why we're so successful are because of three things. Thousands of passionate volunteers who will leave everything they do and run to help people they don't even know. We're not there to replace ambulances. We're just there to get the gap between the ambulance call until they arrive. And we save people that otherwise would not be saved. The second reason is because of our technology. You know, Israelis are good in technology. Every one of us has on his phone, no matter what kind of phone, a GPS technology done by NowForce, and whenever a call comes in, the closest five volunteers get the call, and they actually get there really quick, and navigated by a traffic navigator to get there and not waste time. And this is a great technology we use all over the country and reduce the response time. And the third thing are these ambucycles. These ambucycles are an ambulance on two wheels. We don't transfer people, but we stabilize them, and we save their lives. They never get stuck in traffic. They could even go on a sidewalk. They never, literally, get stuck in traffic. That's why we get there so fast. A few years after I started this organization, in a Jewish community, two Muslims from east Jerusalem called me up. They ask me to meet. They wanted to meet with me. Muhammad Asli and Murad Alyan. When Muhammad told me his personal story, how his father, 55 years old, collapsed at home, had a cardiac arrest, and it took over an hour for an ambulance arrive, and he saw his father die in front of his eyes, he asked me, ""Please start this in east Jerusalem."" I said to myself, I saw so much tragedy, so much hate, and it's not about saving Jews. It's not about saving Muslims. It's not about saving Christians. It's about saving people. So I went ahead, full force — (Applause) — and I started United Hatzalah in east Jerusalem, and that's why the names United and Hatzalah match so well. We started hand in hand saving Jews and Arabs. Arabs were saving Jews. Jews were saving Arabs. Something special happened. Arabs and Jews, they don't always get along together, but here in this situation, the communities, literally, it's an unbelievable situation that happened, the diversities, all of a sudden they had a common interest: Let's save lives together. Settlers were saving Arabs and Arabs were saving settlers. It's an unbelievable concept that could work only when you have such a great cause. And these are all volunteers. No one is getting money. They're all doing it for the purpose of saving lives. When my own father collapsed a few years ago from a cardiac arrest, one of the first volunteers to arrive to save my father was one of these Muslim volunteers from east Jerusalem who was in the first course to join Hatzalah. And he saved my father. Could you imagine how I felt in that moment? When I started this organization, I was 17 years old. I never imagined that one day I'd be speaking at TEDMED. I never even knew what TEDMED was then. I don't think it existed, but I never imagined, I never imagined that it's going to go all around, it's going to spread around, and this last year we started in Panama and Brazil. All I need is a partner who is a little meshugenah like me, passionate about saving lives, and willing to do it. And I'm actually starting it in India very soon with a friend who I met in Harvard just a while back. Hatzalah actually started in Brooklyn by a Hasidic Jew years before us in Williamsburg, and now it's all over the Jewish community in New York, even Australia and Mexico and many other Jewish communities. But it could spread everywhere. It's very easy to adopt. You even saw these volunteers in New York saving lives in the World Trade Center. Last year alone, we treated in Israel 207,000 people. Forty-two thousand of them were life-threatening situations. And we made a difference. I guess you could call this a lifesaving flash mob, and it works. When I look all around here, I see lots of people who would go an extra mile, run an extra mile to save other people, no matter who they are, no matter what religion, no matter who, where they come from. We all want to be heroes. We just need a good idea, motivation and lots of chutzpah, and we could save millions of people that otherwise would not be saved. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	這是一輛救護摩托車用它，我們能以最快的速度到達急救現場除了床，救護車上有的設備它都有有除顫器，還有其他器材 我們都知道波士頓慘案當我看著這些照片它讓我回憶起多年前我還是一個小孩兒的時候我在耶路撒冷的一個小街坊長大一個星期五的下午，當時我只有六歲我和哥哥走在放學回家的路上經過一個公車站時目睹一輛公車在我們眼前爆炸整個車身都是火，造成了很大的傷亡我記得，一個老人朝我們叫喊，大聲叫著讓我們扶他起來他只是需要人幫助他我們當時很恐慌，所以跑開了 或許正是因為那次事故長大後，我決定成為一名救死扶傷的醫生15歲時，我修了一門“緊急醫療救護技術員”課程然後志願去救護車上工作整整兩年，我都志願在耶路撒冷的救護車上工作幫助了許多人但每當有人需要急救時我從沒及時到達，我們從沒及時到達因為交通太差，距離太遠等原因當有人需要急救時，我們從沒及時到達 一次，我們接到電話說一個七歲小孩兒被熱狗噎住了交通差得可怕，我們要從耶路撒冷北部即城鎮的另一邊出發20分鐘後，我們到達現場對這個孩子進行心肺復甦一名醫生從一個街區外趕來，讓我們停下他對孩子進行檢查之後讓我們停止心肺復甦隨即他說，孩子已經死亡 那一刻我認識到這個小孩兒的死毫無意義如果這位只距此一個街區的醫生能夠早20分鐘到這兒而非直到聽見救護車的警笛響起才過來抑或是他早先就得知這起事故他也能救下這個孩子其實，他可以從一個街區外跑過來也可以救下這個孩子 於是我對自己說，一定有更好的方法我和朋友們，15人都是救護技術員，下定決心要保護鄰居們當類似事件再發生時我們能在救護車之前到達急救現場於是我去對救護車公司的經理講“無論何時你接到從我們附近撥來的急救電話只需用呼叫器提醒我們我們有15個人，我們願意停下手裡的事去救人我們會自己買呼叫器您讓調度把呼叫器給我們我們就會跑去救人” 然而，他笑了。我當時還是個17歲的孩子他對我說的話，恍如昨日他人很不錯，但他卻說“孩子，上學去，或去開一間小沙拉三明治店我們對這些新探險不太感興趣也對你們的幫助不感興趣”，然後把我趕出了辦公室他還說，“我不需要你的幫助” 我可是個脾氣很倔的小孩兒如你們所見，我像瘋了一樣四處走動 （笑聲）（掌聲） 於是我打算用大概你們都聽過的以色列人最聞名的技巧——厚臉皮第二天，我去買了兩個警用掃描儀說，“去你的，你不想給我信息我就自己去搞”我們輪流聽無線電 第二天，當我在聽無線電的時候我聽到一個急救電話，一個70歲的老人被車撞了而且距我只有一個街區在我附近的大街上我跑到那兒了，但是沒有急救設備當我到達時，那個70歲的老人正躺在地上，血從他頸部往外湧他用過香豆素（一種口服抗凝血藥物）我必須給他止血，不然他可能會死因為沒有急救設備，所以我摘下圓頂小帽把它使勁壓在傷口處，止住了血所以現在只是頸部在流血救護車15分鐘後到了我交給他們一位活著的病人 （掌聲） 兩天後我去看望他他哭著擁抱了我感謝我救了他那一刻我才意識到，這是我兩年志願服務後救助的第一個人我意識到，這就是我的人生使命 所以，22年後的今天，我們有了“全民義救” （掌聲） “Hatzalah”意思是“營救”，我忘了我不是在以色列可能你們中有人不懂希伯來語我們有成千上萬的熱衷於救助生命的志願者他們遍佈各處，無論何時有急救電話他們都會立即停下手裡的事跑去救助他人現在在以色列，我們的平均反應時間已經降低到3分鐘以下 （掌聲） 我談的事涉及心臟病、交通事故，上帝禁止炸彈襲擊、槍殺和其他一切恐怖活動即使凌晨三點有個女人在家裡摔倒了需要幫助只要3分鐘，我們就會有人穿著睡衣跑到她家去扶她起來 我們的成功有三個原因 第一是因為我們有成千上萬充滿激情的志願者他們願意丢下自己的事情跑去幫助那些甚至他們自己都不認識的人我們並不是為了取代救護車我們只是為了填補急救電話撥出後和救護車到達前的間隙我們救助那些若不及時挽救就會死亡的人 第二是因為科技眾所周知，以色列人擅長運用高科技我們每個人的手機，不管哪種手機都裝有全球定位系統每當有急救電話5位距離最近的志願者會接到電話然後在道路訊息告知系統的指引下以最快的時間到達，不浪費一點時間我們在全國範圍內運用這一技術以便降低反應時間 第三就是這些救護摩托它們是兩個輪子上的救護車但我們不運送傷者，只穩定他們的傷情及時救助他們救護摩托不會陷入交通阻塞，它們能在人行道上開正是由於它們不會陷入交通阻塞所以我們能最快到達現場 在我發起這個組織幾年後東耶路撒冷的一個猶太社區里兩個穆斯林打電話給我說想和我見面他們是穆罕默德·阿斯利和穆拉德·阿里安穆罕默德給我講訴他的親身經歷他的父親，55歲因為心搏停止在家倒下了救護車花了一個多小時才到他家他目睹了父親在眼前死去他對我說，“請一定在東耶路撒冷建立全民義救” 我對自己講，見過了這麼多悲劇和仇恨這並不是為了救猶太人、穆斯林和基督徒，我們是為了救“人”於是，我竭力開始著手（掌聲）在東耶路撒冷發起了“全民義救”這就是“全民”和“義救”如此契合的原因我們團結一致幫助猶太人和阿拉伯人阿拉伯人在幫助猶太人，猶太人在幫助阿拉伯人有件特別的事情發生了我們知道阿拉伯人和猶太人向來不和睦但在這種情況下社區之間真的產生了難以置信的友好狀態突然之間，差異間有了共同利益——共同拯救生命移民在幫助阿拉伯人，阿拉伯人在幫助移民這種不可思議的理念也只有在如此偉大的目標下才會起作用而且這些人都是志願者沒人收取報酬他們這麼做只是為了救人 幾年前，我父親因心搏停止倒下最先到達現場救我父親的志願者是一名來自東耶路撒冷的穆斯林這是他加入“全民義救”後的第一次任務但是他救了我父親你們能想像我那一刻的感受嗎？ 我17歲時發起這個組織從沒想過某天我會站在TEDMED 的講臺上甚至從不知 TEDMED 是什麼我不知道有 TEDMED，也沒猜測過我從沒想到“全民義救”會在附近發展會向全世界發展去年，我們在巴拿馬和巴西也發起了這個組織我只需一個跟我一樣瘋狂的夥伴熱衷且義無反顧的救助他人其實，我也正和一個在哈佛遇見的朋友在印度籌劃發起這個組織其實義救在我們之前就由一個哈西德猶太人在布魯克林的威廉斯堡發起了現在已遍布紐約的猶太社區甚至包括澳大利亞、墨西哥和許多其他猶太社區它可以傳播到任何地方非常容易開展你甚至能看到志願者們在紐約世貿中心救人僅去年，我們在以色列救助了 207000人其中 42000人 生命危在旦夕但是我們創造了奇蹟你們可以叫我們“救生快閃”但確實有用 當我望向四周我看到一群願意不辭辛苦去救助他人的人不論身份，不論宗教不論誰，無論來自何處我們都想當英雄只需要一個好想法和動力還有“厚臉皮”我們可以挽救無數如果我們不去救可能就會死去的人 非常感謝 （掌聲）
