Talk	en	zh-tw
elif_shafak_the_politics_of_fiction	"I'm a storyteller. That's what I do in life — telling stories, writing novels — and today I would like to tell you a few stories about the art of storytelling and also some supernatural creatures called the djinni. But before I go there, please allow me to share with you glimpses of my personal story. I will do so with the help of words, of course, but also a geometrical shape, the circle, so throughout my talk, you will come across several circles. I was born in Strasbourg, France to Turkish parents. Shortly after, my parents got separated, and I came to Turkey with my mom. From then on, I was raised as a single child by a single mother. Now in the early 1970s, in Ankara, that was a bit unusual. Our neighborhood was full of large families, where fathers were the heads of households, so I grew up seeing my mother as a divorcee in a patriarchal environment. In fact, I grew up observing two different kinds of womanhood. On the one hand was my mother, a well-educated, secular, modern, westernized, Turkish woman. On the other hand was my grandmother, who also took care of me and was more spiritual, less educated and definitely less rational. This was a woman who read coffee grounds to see the future and melted lead into mysterious shapes to fend off the evil eye. Many people visited my grandmother, people with severe acne on their faces or warts on their hands. Each time, my grandmother would utter some words in Arabic, take a red apple and stab it with as many rose thorns as the number of warts she wanted to remove. Then one by one, she would encircle these thorns with dark ink. A week later, the patient would come back for a follow-up examination. Now, I'm aware that I should not be saying such things in front of an audience of scholars and scientists, but the truth is, of all the people who visited my grandmother for their skin conditions, I did not see anyone go back unhappy or unhealed. I asked her how she did this. Was it the power of praying? In response she said, ""Yes, praying is effective, but also beware of the power of circles."" From her, I learned, amongst many other things, one very precious lesson — that if you want to destroy something in this life, be it an acne, a blemish or the human soul, all you need to do is to surround it with thick walls. It will dry up inside. Now we all live in some kind of a social and cultural circle. We all do. We're born into a certain family, nation, class. But if we have no connection whatsoever with the worlds beyond the one we take for granted, then we too run the risk of drying up inside. Our imagination might shrink; our hearts might dwindle, and our humanness might wither if we stay for too long inside our cultural cocoons. Our friends, neighbors, colleagues, family — if all the people in our inner circle resemble us, it means we are surrounded with our mirror image. Now one other thing women like my grandma do in Turkey is to cover mirrors with velvet or to hang them on the walls with their backs facing out. It's an old Eastern tradition based on the knowledge that it's not healthy for a human being to spend too much time staring at his own reflection. Ironically, [living in] communities of the like-minded is one of the greatest dangers of today's globalized world. And it's happening everywhere, among liberals and conservatives, agnostics and believers, the rich and the poor, East and West alike. We tend to form clusters based on similarity, and then we produce stereotypes about other clusters of people. In my opinion, one way of transcending these cultural ghettos is through the art of storytelling. Stories cannot demolish frontiers, but they can punch holes in our mental walls. And through those holes, we can get a glimpse of the other, and sometimes even like what we see. I started writing fiction at the age of eight. My mother came home one day with a turquoise notebook and asked me if I'd be interested in keeping a personal journal. In retrospect, I think she was slightly worried about my sanity. I was constantly telling stories at home, which was good, except I told this to imaginary friends around me, which was not so good. I was an introverted child, to the point of communicating with colored crayons and apologizing to objects when I bumped into them, so my mother thought it might do me good to write down my day-to-day experiences and emotions. What she didn't know was that I thought my life was terribly boring, and the last thing I wanted to do was to write about myself. Instead, I began to write about people other than me and things that never really happened. And thus began my life-long passion for writing fiction. So from the very beginning, fiction for me was less of an autobiographical manifestation than a transcendental journey into other lives, other possibilities. And please bear with me: I'll draw a circle and come back to this point. Now one other thing happened around this same time. My mother became a diplomat. So from this small, superstitious, middle-class neighborhood of my grandmother, I was zoomed into this posh, international school [in Madrid], where I was the only Turk. It was here that I had my first encounter with what I call the ""representative foreigner."" In our classroom, there were children from all nationalities, yet this diversity did not necessarily lead to a cosmopolitan, egalitarian classroom democracy. Instead, it generated an atmosphere in which each child was seen — not as an individual on his own, but as the representative of something larger. We were like a miniature United Nations, which was fun, except whenever something negative, with regards to a nation or a religion, took place. The child who represented it was mocked, ridiculed and bullied endlessly. And I should know, because during the time I attended that school, a military takeover happened in my country, a gunman of my nationality nearly killed the Pope, and Turkey got zero points in [the] Eurovision Song Contest. (Laughter) I skipped school often and dreamed of becoming a sailor during those days. I also had my first taste of cultural stereotypes there. The other children asked me about the movie ""Midnight Express,"" which I had not seen; they inquired how many cigarettes a day I smoked, because they thought all Turks were heavy smokers, and they wondered at what age I would start covering my hair. I came to learn that these were the three main stereotypes about my country: politics, cigarettes and the veil. After Spain, we went to Jordan, Germany and Ankara again. Everywhere I went, I felt like my imagination was the only suitcase I could take with me. Stories gave me a sense of center, continuity and coherence, the three big Cs that I otherwise lacked. In my mid-twenties, I moved to Istanbul, the city I adore. I lived in a very vibrant, diverse neighborhood where I wrote several of my novels. I was in Istanbul when the earthquake hit in 1999. When I ran out of the building at three in the morning, I saw something that stopped me in my tracks. There was the local grocer there — a grumpy, old man who didn't sell alcohol and didn't speak to marginals. He was sitting next to a transvestite with a long black wig and mascara running down her cheeks. I watched the man open a pack of cigarettes with trembling hands and offer one to her, and that is the image of the night of the earthquake in my mind today — a conservative grocer and a crying transvestite smoking together on the sidewalk. In the face of death and destruction, our mundane differences evaporated, and we all became one even if for a few hours. But I've always believed that stories, too, have a similar effect on us. I'm not saying that fiction has the magnitude of an earthquake, but when we are reading a good novel, we leave our small, cozy apartments behind, go out into the night alone and start getting to know people we had never met before and perhaps had even been biased against. Shortly after, I went to a women's college in Boston, then Michigan. I experienced this, not so much as a geographical shift, as a linguistic one. I started writing fiction in English. I'm not an immigrant, refugee or exile — they ask me why I do this — but the commute between languages gives me the chance to recreate myself. I love writing in Turkish, which to me is very poetic and very emotional, and I love writing in English, which to me is very mathematical and cerebral. So I feel connected to each language in a different way. For me, like millions of other people around the world today, English is an acquired language. When you're a latecomer to a language, what happens is you live there with a continuous and perpetual frustration. As latecomers, we always want to say more, you know, crack better jokes, say better things, but we end up saying less because there's a gap between the mind and the tongue. And that gap is very intimidating. But if we manage not to be frightened by it, it's also stimulating. And this is what I discovered in Boston — that frustration was very stimulating. At this stage, my grandmother, who had been watching the course of my life with increasing anxiety, started to include in her daily prayers that I urgently get married so that I could settle down once and for all. And because God loves her, I did get married. (Laughter) But instead of settling down, I went to Arizona. And since my husband is in Istanbul, I started commuting between Arizona and Istanbul — the two places on the surface of earth that couldn't be more different. I guess one part of me has always been a nomad, physically and spiritually. Stories accompany me, keeping my pieces and memories together, like an existential glue. Yet as much as I love stories, recently, I've also begun to think that they lose their magic if and when a story is seen as more than a story. And this is a subject that I would love to think about together. When my first novel written in English came out in America, I heard an interesting remark from a literary critic. ""I liked your book,"" he said, ""but I wish you had written it differently."" (Laughter) I asked him what he meant by that. He said, ""Well, look at it. There's so many Spanish, American, Hispanic characters in it, but there's only one Turkish character and it's a man."" Now the novel took place on a university campus in Boston, so to me, it was normal that there be more international characters in it than Turkish characters, but I understood what my critic was looking for. And I also understood that I would keep disappointing him. He wanted to see the manifestation of my identity. He was looking for a Turkish woman in the book because I happened to be one. We often talk about how stories change the world, but we should also see how the world of identity politics affects the way stories are being circulated, read and reviewed. Many authors feel this pressure, but non-Western authors feel it more heavily. If you're a woman writer from the Muslim world, like me, then you are expected to write the stories of Muslim women and, preferably, the unhappy stories of unhappy Muslim women. You're expected to write informative, poignant and characteristic stories and leave the experimental and avant-garde to your Western colleagues. What I experienced as a child in that school in Madrid is happening in the literary world today. Writers are not seen as creative individuals on their own, but as the representatives of their respective cultures: a few authors from China, a few from Turkey, a few from Nigeria. We're all thought to have something very distinctive, if not peculiar. The writer and commuter James Baldwin gave an interview in 1984 in which he was repeatedly asked about his homosexuality. When the interviewer tried to pigeonhole him as a gay writer, Baldwin stopped and said, ""But don't you see? There's nothing in me that is not in everybody else, and nothing in everybody else that is not in me."" When identity politics tries to put labels on us, it is our freedom of imagination that is in danger. There's a fuzzy category called multicultural literature in which all authors from outside the Western world are lumped together. I never forget my first multicultural reading, in Harvard Square about 10 years ago. We were three writers, one from the Philippines, one Turkish and one Indonesian — like a joke, you know. (Laughter) And the reason why we were brought together was not because we shared an artistic style or a literary taste. It was only because of our passports. Multicultural writers are expected to tell real stories, not so much the imaginary. A function is attributed to fiction. In this way, not only the writers themselves, but also their fictional characters become the representatives of something larger. But I must quickly add that this tendency to see a story as more than a story does not solely come from the West. It comes from everywhere. And I experienced this firsthand when I was put on trial in 2005 for the words my fictional characters uttered in a novel. I had intended to write a constructive, multi-layered novel about an Armenian and a Turkish family through the eyes of women. My micro story became a macro issue when I was prosecuted. Some people criticized, others praised me for writing about the Turkish-Armenian conflict. But there were times when I wanted to remind both sides that this was fiction. It was just a story. And when I say, ""just a story,"" I'm not trying to belittle my work. I want to love and celebrate fiction for what it is, not as a means to an end. Writers are entitled to their political opinions, and there are good political novels out there, but the language of fiction is not the language of daily politics. Chekhov said, ""The solution to a problem and the correct way of posing the question are two completely separate things. And only the latter is an artist's responsibility."" Identity politics divides us. Fiction connects. One is interested in sweeping generalizations. The other, in nuances. One draws boundaries. The other recognizes no frontiers. Identity politics is made of solid bricks. Fiction is flowing water. In the Ottoman times, there were itinerant storytellers called ""meddah."" They would go to coffee houses, where they would tell a story in front of an audience, often improvising. With each new person in the story, the meddah would change his voice, impersonating that character. Everybody could go and listen, you know — ordinary people, even the sultan, Muslims and non-Muslims. Stories cut across all boundaries, like ""The Tales of Nasreddin Hodja,"" which were very popular throughout the Middle East, North Africa, the Balkans and Asia. Today, stories continue to transcend borders. When Palestinian and Israeli politicians talk, they usually don't listen to each other, but a Palestinian reader still reads a novel by a Jewish author, and vice versa, connecting and empathizing with the narrator. Literature has to take us beyond. If it cannot take us there, it is not good literature. Books have saved the introverted, timid child that I was — that I once was. But I'm also aware of the danger of fetishizing them. When the poet and mystic, Rumi, met his spiritual companion, Shams of Tabriz, one of the first things the latter did was to toss Rumi's books into water and watch the letters dissolve. The Sufis say, ""Knowledge that takes you not beyond yourself is far worse than ignorance."" The problem with today's cultural ghettos is not lack of knowledge — we know a lot about each other, or so we think — but knowledge that takes us not beyond ourselves: it makes us elitist, distant and disconnected. There's a metaphor which I love: living like a drawing compass. As you know, one leg of the compass is static, rooted in a place. Meanwhile, the other leg draws a wide circle, constantly moving. Like that, my fiction as well. One part of it is rooted in Istanbul, with strong Turkish roots, but the other part travels the world, connecting to different cultures. In that sense, I like to think of my fiction as both local and universal, both from here and everywhere. Now those of you who have been to Istanbul have probably seen Topkapi Palace, which was the residence of Ottoman sultans for more than 400 years. In the palace, just outside the quarters of the favorite concubines, there's an area called The Gathering Place of the Djinn. It's between buildings. I'm intrigued by this concept. We usually distrust those areas that fall in between things. We see them as the domain of supernatural creatures like the djinn, who are made of smokeless fire and are the symbol of elusiveness. But my point is perhaps that elusive space is what writers and artists need most. When I write fiction I cherish elusiveness and changeability. I like not knowing what will happen 10 pages later. I like it when my characters surprise me. I might write about a Muslim woman in one novel, and perhaps it will be a very happy story, and in my next book, I might write about a handsome, gay professor in Norway. As long as it comes from our hearts, we can write about anything and everything. Audre Lorde once said, ""The white fathers taught us to say, 'I think, therefore I am.'"" She suggested, ""I feel, therefore I am free."" I think it was a wonderful paradigm shift. And yet, why is it that, in creative writing courses today, the very first thing we teach students is ""write what you know""? Perhaps that's not the right way to start at all. Imaginative literature is not necessarily about writing who we are or what we know or what our identity is about. We should teach young people and ourselves to expand our hearts and write what we can feel. We should get out of our cultural ghetto and go visit the next one and the next. In the end, stories move like whirling dervishes, drawing circles beyond circles. They connect all humanity, regardless of identity politics, and that is the good news. And I would like to finish with an old Sufi poem: ""Come, let us be friends for once; let us make life easy on us; let us be lovers and loved ones; the earth shall be left to no one."" Thank you. (Applause)"	我是作家我的工作就是說故事寫小說今天我要告訴你們說故事的藝術以及一種超自然生物精靈在那之前，我想與各位分享我自己的一些故事除了用話語分享我也用圓形來比喻我的演說中我們會提到幾個圓形 我在法國史特拉斯堡出生父母是土耳其人不久之後，我父母分居我跟著媽媽到了土耳其所以我是個單親家庭的孩子在1970年早期的安卡拉是很不尋常的鄰居都是大家庭一家之主是父親在這種父權社會我和離婚的媽媽一起生活我的童年有兩個女人做榜樣一個是我媽媽受良好教育、西方思想、現代的土耳其女性一個是照顧我的外婆虔誠的、教育程度較低、較迷信的傳統女性她會咖啡渣算命將溶化的鉛弄成神秘的圖案來防禦邪惡之眼 很多人會來找我祖母臉上有嚴重痘痘的人手上有疣的人每次，我祖母都會念一串阿拉伯文然後拿與痘痘同數量的玫瑰刺，來刺一顆紅蘋果一個接一個她會用黑墨水，在花刺周圍畫圈一週後，病人會回來複檢我知道我在一群學者、科學家面前講這種事很傻但事實上，上門的病人沒有一個回家的時候是不開心、沒有痊癒的我問祖母她怎麼做的，是因為禱告嗎？她回答我，禱告是很有效的一種方法但也別低估圓形的力量 從她身上，我學到很多東西特別珍貴的一課是如果你想消滅某個東西痘痘也好、髒污也好甚至是靈魂你只要將其以厚牆圍繞它就會消逝在裡面我們都生活在某種社交、文化圈中每個人都是出生於某個家庭、國家、階級如果我們視為理所當然的世界之間都沒有交集我們也面對消逝的危險我們會失去想像力心胸變得狹隘人性將枯萎如果在自己的文化圈內待太久我們的朋友、鄰居、同事、家人如果圈圈中的人都跟自己一樣這表示我們被自己的表象圍繞著 另一件像我祖母一樣的土耳其女人會做的事就是用絨布蓋鏡子或是將反面掛在牆上這是古老的東方傳統他們相信人常常盯著自己看是不健康的諷刺的是，現在的全球化社會面對最大的危險就是太相似的社群到處都看得到不論自由派或保守派不論是無神論者或信徒、窮人或有錢人東西方皆同我們和與自己相像的人形成小圈圈再來開始對其他小圈圈的人產生刻板印象我認為，超越這些文化圈唯一的方式就是透過故事的述說故事無法破壞邊境但可以在心牆上打洞透過這些洞，我們得以一瞥他人甚至欣賞我們所看見的東西 我八歲就開始寫小說我媽有天回家帶了本土耳其藍的筆記本給我讓我寫日記後來回想，她應該是擔心我精神不正常因為我常常會說故事，這是好事但我都說給「想像的朋友」聽這就不太妙了我小時候很內向會跟蠟筆講話撞到東西的時候還會跟它們道歉所以我媽覺得讓我寫日記寫下發生的事、每天的心情是不錯的她所不知道的是我覺得我的生活很無趣我最不想做的事情就是寫下關於我自己的事所以我開始寫我身邊的人和一些虛構的故事後來寫小說成為我一生的熱愛一開始，小說對我而言只是一種，自己以外的東西而不是冒險的旅程、其他的生活、其他的可能各位請包容我我畫了個圈圈，等一下再回到這個點上 這段期間，發生了另一件事就是我母親當上外交官我從這個迷信、祖母家附近這中產階級的小街坊到了馬德里一所光鮮亮麗的國際學校我是唯一的土耳其人那裡，我首次了解「外國代表」這個觀念教室中，每個孩子都來自不同國家這種多樣性，並沒有消除偏見、平等教室並不民主孩子們變成不只是獨立的個體而是代表更大的東西、概念有點像是迷你聯合國，其實很好玩除了有時候提到負面的形象像是講到國家或是宗教的時候來自那個國家的孩子就會被取笑、欺負我特別了解是因為當時土耳其正經歷軍事接收一名土耳其槍手差點殺死教宗所以土耳其在《歐洲歌唱大賽》掛鴨蛋(笑聲) 我常翹課，然後就會幻想水手的生活這也是我第一次了解什麼是刻板印象其他小孩會問我有沒有看過土耳其電影《午夜快車》他們會問我一天抽多少菸因為他們覺得土耳其人都是大菸槍他們也很好奇我幾歲要開始戴頭巾所以我學到關於土耳其的三種刻板印象政治、香菸和面紗離開西班牙後我們還去過約旦、德國然後回到安卡拉遊歷各國後，我覺得我的想像力就像只皮箱隨時可以帶著走故事給我一種中心(center)、連續性(continuity )、凝聚力(coherence)我無法缺少的3C 我25、26歲時，搬到伊斯坦堡我很喜歡的地方我住在個很有活力、多元文化的街坊我在那寫了許多本小說1999年伊斯坦堡大地震時我就在那凌晨三點我急忙跑出公寓但我看著眼前的景象，我便停下腳步我看見一個雜貨店老闆這脾氣暴躁的老人不賣酒也不跟邊緣人說話但他當時，坐在一個戴著長黑髮睫毛膏哭花在臉上的變裝癖旁邊我看著這男人用顫抖的手拆了包菸並遞一支給她那晚地震的那一幕我始終忘不了一個保守的雜貨店老闆與哭泣的變裝癖一同坐在人行道旁抽菸面對死亡及毀壞我們最基本的差異消失無蹤我們成為相同的即使幾小時也好我一直相信故事也有相同作用我並不是說小說像地震一樣強大但當我們讀本好書時我們忘記狹小卻舒適的公寓像是在夜晚單獨走在街上認識從未見過的人甚至是我們先前有所偏見的人 不久後，我到波士頓及密西根的女子大學就讀這經驗不是地理上的轉變而是語言上的我開始用英文寫小說我並非移民、難民、或在逃亡他們問我為什麼但兩種語言的轉換間給了我另一個機會，重新創造自己我愛用土耳其文寫作對我而言，富有詩意又感性我也愛用英文寫作因為它精確又理智我對這兩種語言的感受是很不同的對我而言，以及全世界幾百萬人一樣英文是第二語言當你學習新語言的時候常常會遇到的情況就是那種永不停止的挫折感學習語言，我們總想多說點、想講好笑的笑話、有趣的事但說出來的通常不是如此因為腦子與嘴巴有距離這種距離是很可怕的但是如果我們努力不被它嚇到它可以是種刺激這是我在波士頓所發現的挫折就是刺激 這時候，我祖母替我這樣的生活感到很憂心她開始每天禱告希望我快點嫁出去這樣我才能安定下來因為上帝愛她，我後來真的結婚了(笑聲)不過我沒有定下來我到了亞利桑那州因為我丈夫人在伊斯坦堡我開始兩地往返同在地球上，這兩個地方差別太大了我想我有游牧民族因子吧身體上或精神上都是故事陪伴著我像個膠水一樣將我的記憶黏起來 雖然我愛故事最近我卻開始覺得當故事變得不只是個故事他們就失去了魔力我希望跟各位分享這個想法當我第一本英文小說在美國出版我聽到了一個有趣的評論他說：「我喜歡你的書但我不喜歡妳呈現的方法。」(笑聲)我請他解釋清楚一點他說：「你書中有一堆」「西班牙人、美國人、拉丁美洲裔的角色」「卻只有一個土耳其人，還是個男的。」因為小說背景是波士頓的一所大學校園國際學生數量比土耳其學生多是很正常的但我了解評論家要的是什麼我也了解到他會一直對我的小說失望他想看的是我身份的呈現他想在書中讀到土耳其女人角色因為我是土耳其女人 我們常講到故事如何改變世界但我們也應該知道世界上的身分政治是如何影響故事如何解讀故事如何看待故事很多作者皆承受如此壓力特別是那些非西方作者如果你像我一樣是伊斯蘭社會的女作家那大家就期望你寫出伊斯蘭女人的故事寫不開心的伊斯蘭女人背後不開心的故事更好大家期望你寫含帶訊息、激烈、人物性格鮮明的故事其他試驗性的、前衛的故事就讓其他西方作家來寫就好我小時候在馬德里的經驗現在的文學社會也發生著作者不再被視為單獨富創意的個體而是他們文化的代表一些中國作家、土耳其作家奈及利亞作家大家想從我們的作品裡看到的，是奇特是與眾不同 詹姆斯．鮑德溫1984年的一場訪問訪問中，他被重複問到他的同性戀傾向訪問者硬要他作出回應鮑德溫便回答他「你不明白嗎？我身上所擁有的」「其他人也有；」「其他人所擁有的」「我身上也有」當身份政治將我們貼上標籤我們想像力的自由便有了危險有個模糊的分類叫做多元文化文學基本上就是，西方以外國家的作者被歸類在一起我從未忘記我十年前在波士頓哈佛廣場所參加的多元文化文學讀書會我們共有三位作家，一個是菲律賓籍一個土耳其籍，一個印尼籍像個笑話一樣(笑聲)但我們相聚的原因並不是我們作品類似文學喜好類似而是因為我們的護照大家期望多元文化作家寫出真實故事想像力就不必了小說被賦予了一個功能因此，不只是作者本身連小說中虛構人物也都代表了更大的東西 我必須補充這種「故事不只是故事」的想法不只有在西方世界看得到而是世界各地都如此我在2005的一次親身經歷當時我在法庭上受審原因是我小說中角色所說的一些話我本來想寫結構上多層次關於亞美尼亞與土耳其家庭的小說用女性觀點來寫我的小故事成了大話題後來我被起訴了有人批評、有人讚美我書中土耳其與亞美尼亞衝突的內容但好幾次，我都想告訴這些人這是虛構的只是故事而已當我說：「只是故事而已」我並不是貶低自己的作品我熱愛、頌揚文學是因它的本質而不是為特定目的 作家當然有自己的政治傾向現在也有很多不錯的政治小說但小說的語言並非政治的語言契訶夫說過「問題的解決方法」「與問題的呈現方法」「是全然不同的兩件事」「但只有後者，是藝術家的責任」身分政治分裂我們，小說連結我們一個是一概而論一個是些微差別一個劃分隔閡一個消除分界身分政治就像厚牆小說就像流水 奧圖曼時期，有種遊歷各國的人叫做說書人(邁達赫)他們會去茶館對著一群觀眾說故事即興說書為表現書中不同人物說書人會利用不同的聲音來表現人物的變化大家都會去看說書人表演不論是普羅大眾、蘇丹王回教徒、或非回教徒故事消弭隔閡就像《土耳其智者荷加的故事》這本在中東、北非、巴爾幹、亞洲大家都熟知的故事一樣今日，故事依然超越邊界當巴勒斯坦與以色列政治家發表言論他們通常都不聽彼此的內容但當一個巴勒斯坦讀者讀著猶太作家的小說時他們對於敘述者，產生連結產生同理心文學必須帶領我們超越自我如果沒辦法如此那就不是好的文學 書拯救了小時候那個內向、膽小的我但我也明白盲目閱讀的危險當神秘的詩人魯米遇到他的精神伴侶沙姆士時沙姆士做的第一件事就是就是將魯米的書丟到河裡看著墨水在水中化開魯米說：「擁有無法超越自我的知識」「還不如無知」今日文化圈的問題並不是缺乏知識我們了解彼此或只是我們自以為了解彼此但那無法超越自我的知識變成精英文化彼此隔絕，產生距離有個我很喜歡的比喻生活就像是圓規一隻腳站穩在定點同時，另一隻腳向外畫出一個能任意擴大的圓我的小說也像那樣一隻腳在伊斯坦堡有著土耳其深根但另一隻旅遊世界與各文化連結著這樣來解釋，我想我的小說既本土又多元並無限延伸 有去過土耳其的人一定參觀過托普卡比宮殿鄂圖曼帝國的王室在那住過超過400年宮殿裡，寵妃的房間外一個角落被稱為精靈的集聚地就在每棟建築物間我迷上這個概念我們通常都不信任這種中間地帶我們將那種地方視為超自然生物，像是精靈會突然冒出一陣白煙似的是難以捉摸的象徵但我認為這種難以捉摸之地正是小說家、藝術家所需要的當我寫小說我喜歡那種難以捉摸、多變性我喜歡那種不曉得十頁之後故事會如何發展的感覺我喜歡我的角色帶給我的驚喜我可能一本小說寫穆斯林女人很開心的故事下一本小說，我可能會寫一個挪威的帥哥同性戀教授只要這些故事是發自內心沒有什麼是不能寫的 奧黛蘿德曾說：「白衣神父教導我們我思故我在。」但她認為應該是：「我感受所以我自由」這是很美妙的轉變那為什麼現在的創意寫作課裡我們教學生的第一件事會是寫「自己所知」呢？也許一開始根本不該這樣教想像文學並非是寫自己、或自己所知或自己的身分我們應該教育自己以及下一代開放心胸寫出自己的感受我們應該走出自己的文化圈探訪他人的世界 最終，故事也能像遊歷的僧侶不斷地向外畫圈他們結合人性而非身分政治這是件好事最後我想以一首古詩作結「來，讓我們做朋友，」「讓我們生活快樂點，」「讓我們彼此相愛，」「如此世界將不會孤單。」 謝謝 (掌聲)
