Talk	en	zh-tw
elizabeth_gilbert_on_genius	"I am a writer. Writing books is my profession but it's more than that, of course. It is also my great lifelong love and fascination. And I don't expect that that's ever going to change. But, that said, something kind of peculiar has happened recently in my life and in my career, which has caused me to have to recalibrate my whole relationship with this work. And the peculiar thing is that I recently wrote this book, this memoir called ""Eat, Pray, Love"" which, decidedly unlike any of my previous books, went out in the world for some reason, and became this big, mega-sensation, international bestseller thing. The result of which is that everywhere I go now, people treat me like I'm doomed. Seriously — doomed, doomed! Like, they come up to me now, all worried, and they say, ""Aren't you afraid you're never going to be able to top that? Aren't you afraid you're going to keep writing for your whole life and you're never again going to create a book that anybody in the world cares about at all, ever again?"" So that's reassuring, you know. But it would be worse, except for that I happen to remember that over 20 years ago, when I was a teenager, when I first started telling people that I wanted to be a writer, I was met with this same sort of fear-based reaction. And people would say, ""Aren't you afraid you're never going to have any success? Aren't you afraid the humiliation of rejection will kill you? Aren't you afraid that you're going to work your whole life at this craft and nothing's ever going to come of it and you're going to die on a scrap heap of broken dreams with your mouth filled with bitter ash of failure?"" (Laughter) Like that, you know. The answer — the short answer to all those questions is, ""Yes."" Yes, I'm afraid of all those things. And I always have been. And I'm afraid of many, many more things besides that people can't even guess at, like seaweed and other things that are scary. But, when it comes to writing, the thing that I've been sort of thinking about lately, and wondering about lately, is why? You know, is it rational? Is it logical that anybody should be expected to be afraid of the work that they feel they were put on this Earth to do. And what is it specifically about creative ventures that seems to make us really nervous about each other's mental health in a way that other careers kind of don't do, you know? Like my dad, for example, was a chemical engineer and I don't recall once in his 40 years of chemical engineering anybody asking him if he was afraid to be a chemical engineer, you know? ""That chemical-engineering block, John, how's it going?"" It just didn't come up like that, you know? But to be fair, chemical engineers as a group haven't really earned a reputation over the centuries for being alcoholic manic-depressives. (Laughter) We writers, we kind of do have that reputation, and not just writers, but creative people across all genres, it seems, have this reputation for being enormously mentally unstable. And all you have to do is look at the very grim death count in the 20th century alone, of really magnificent creative minds who died young and often at their own hands, you know? And even the ones who didn't literally commit suicide seem to be really undone by their gifts, you know. Norman Mailer, just before he died, last interview, he said, ""Every one of my books has killed me a little more."" An extraordinary statement to make about your life's work. But we don't even blink when we hear somebody say this, because we've heard that kind of stuff for so long and somehow we've completely internalized and accepted collectively this notion that creativity and suffering are somehow inherently linked and that artistry, in the end, will always ultimately lead to anguish. And the question that I want to ask everybody here today is are you guys all cool with that idea? Are you comfortable with that? Because you look at it even from an inch away and, you know — I'm not at all comfortable with that assumption. I think it's odious. And I also think it's dangerous, and I don't want to see it perpetuated into the next century. I think it's better if we encourage our great creative minds to live. And I definitely know that, in my case — in my situation — it would be very dangerous for me to start sort of leaking down that dark path of assumption, particularly given the circumstance that I'm in right now in my career. Which is — you know, like check it out, I'm pretty young, I'm only about 40 years old. I still have maybe another four decades of work left in me. And it's exceedingly likely that anything I write from this point forward is going to be judged by the world as the work that came after the freakish success of my last book, right? I should just put it bluntly, because we're all sort of friends here now — it's exceedingly likely that my greatest success is behind me. So Jesus, what a thought! That's the kind of thought that could lead a person to start drinking gin at nine o'clock in the morning, and I don't want to go there. (Laughter) I would prefer to keep doing this work that I love. And so, the question becomes, how? And so, it seems to me, upon a lot of reflection, that the way that I have to work now, in order to continue writing, is that I have to create some sort of protective psychological construct, right? I have to sort of find some way to have a safe distance between me, as I am writing, and my very natural anxiety about what the reaction to that writing is going to be, from now on. And, as I've been looking, over the last year, for models for how to do that, I've been sort of looking across time, and I've been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better and saner ideas than we have about how to help creative people sort of manage the inherent emotional risks of creativity. And that search has led me to ancient Greece and ancient Rome. So stay with me, because it does circle around and back. But, ancient Greece and ancient Rome — people did not happen to believe that creativity came from human beings back then, OK? People believed that creativity was this divine attendant spirit that came to human beings from some distant and unknowable source, for distant and unknowable reasons. The Greeks famously called these divine attendant spirits of creativity ""daemons."" Socrates, famously, believed that he had a daemon who spoke wisdom to him from afar. The Romans had the same idea, but they called that sort of disembodied creative spirit a genius. Which is great, because the Romans did not actually think that a genius was a particularly clever individual. They believed that a genius was this, sort of magical divine entity, who was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist's studio, kind of like Dobby the house elf, and who would come out and sort of invisibly assist the artist with their work and would shape the outcome of that work. So brilliant — there it is, right there, that distance that I'm talking about — that psychological construct to protect you from the results of your work. And everyone knew that this is how it functioned, right? So the ancient artist was protected from certain things, like, for example, too much narcissism, right? If your work was brilliant, you couldn't take all the credit for it, everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius who had helped you. If your work bombed, not entirely your fault, you know? Everyone knew your genius was kind of lame. (Laughter) And this is how people thought about creativity in the West for a really long time. And then the Renaissance came and everything changed, and we had this big idea, and the big idea was, let's put the individual human being at the center of the universe above all gods and mysteries, and there's no more room for mystical creatures who take dictation from the divine. And it's the beginning of rational humanism, and people started to believe that creativity came completely from the self of the individual. And for the first time in history, you start to hear people referring to this or that artist as being a genius, rather than having a genius. And I got to tell you, I think that was a huge error. You know, I think that allowing somebody, one mere person to believe that he or she is like, the vessel, you know, like the font and the essence and the source of all divine, creative, unknowable, eternal mystery is just a smidge too much responsibility to put on one fragile, human psyche. It's like asking somebody to swallow the sun. It just completely warps and distorts egos, and it creates all these unmanageable expectations about performance. And I think the pressure of that has been killing off our artists for the last 500 years. And, if this is true, and I think it is true, the question becomes, what now? Can we do this differently? Maybe go back to some more ancient understanding about the relationship between humans and the creative mystery. Maybe not. Maybe we can't just erase 500 years of rational humanistic thought in one 18 minute speech. And there's probably people in this audience who would raise really legitimate scientific suspicions about the notion of, basically, fairies who follow people around rubbing fairy juice on their projects and stuff. I'm not, probably, going to bring you all along with me on this. But the question that I kind of want to pose is — you know, why not? Why not think about it this way? Because it makes as much sense as anything else I have ever heard in terms of explaining the utter maddening capriciousness of the creative process. A process which, as anybody who has ever tried to make something — which is to say basically everyone here —- knows does not always behave rationally. And, in fact, can sometimes feel downright paranormal. I had this encounter recently where I met the extraordinary American poet Ruth Stone, who's now in her 90s, but she's been a poet her entire life and she told me that when she was growing up in rural Virginia, she would be out working in the fields, and she said she would feel and hear a poem coming at her from over the landscape. And she said it was like a thunderous train of air. And it would come barreling down at her over the landscape. And she felt it coming, because it would shake the earth under her feet. She knew that she had only one thing to do at that point, and that was to, in her words, ""run like hell."" And she would run like hell to the house and she would be getting chased by this poem, and the whole deal was that she had to get to a piece of paper and a pencil fast enough so that when it thundered through her, she could collect it and grab it on the page. And other times she wouldn't be fast enough, so she'd be running and running, and she wouldn't get to the house and the poem would barrel through her and she would miss it and she said it would continue on across the landscape, looking, as she put it ""for another poet."" And then there were these times — this is the piece I never forgot — she said that there were moments where she would almost miss it, right? So, she's running to the house and she's looking for the paper and the poem passes through her, and she grabs a pencil just as it's going through her, and then she said, it was like she would reach out with her other hand and she would catch it. She would catch the poem by its tail, and she would pull it backwards into her body as she was transcribing on the page. And in these instances, the poem would come up on the page perfect and intact but backwards, from the last word to the first. (Laughter) So when I heard that I was like — that's uncanny, that's exactly what my creative process is like. (Laughter) That's not at all what my creative process is — I'm not the pipeline! I'm a mule, and the way that I have to work is I have to get up at the same time every day, and sweat and labor and barrel through it really awkwardly. But even I, in my mulishness, even I have brushed up against that thing, at times. And I would imagine that a lot of you have too. You know, even I have had work or ideas come through me from a source that I honestly cannot identify. And what is that thing? And how are we to relate to it in a way that will not make us lose our minds, but, in fact, might actually keep us sane? And for me, the best contemporary example that I have of how to do that is the musician Tom Waits, who I got to interview several years ago on a magazine assignment. And we were talking about this, and you know, Tom, for most of his life, he was pretty much the embodiment of the tormented contemporary modern artist, trying to control and manage and dominate these sort of uncontrollable creative impulses that were totally internalized. But then he got older, he got calmer, and one day he was driving down the freeway in Los Angeles, and this is when it all changed for him. And he's speeding along, and all of a sudden he hears this little fragment of melody, that comes into his head as inspiration often comes, elusive and tantalizing, and he wants it, it's gorgeous, and he longs for it, but he has no way to get it. He doesn't have a piece of paper, or a pencil, or a tape recorder. So he starts to feel all of that old anxiety start to rise in him like, ""I'm going to lose this thing, and I'll be be haunted by this song forever. I'm not good enough, and I can't do it."" And instead of panicking, he just stopped. He just stopped that whole mental process and he did something completely novel. He just looked up at the sky, and he said, ""Excuse me, can you not see that I'm driving?"" (Laughter) ""Do I look like I can write down a song right now? If you really want to exist, come back at a more opportune moment when I can take care of you. Otherwise, go bother somebody else today. Go bother Leonard Cohen."" And his whole work process changed after that. Not the work, the work was still oftentimes as dark as ever. But the process, and the heavy anxiety around it was released when he took the genie, the genius out of him where it was causing nothing but trouble, and released it back where it came from, and realized that this didn't have to be this internalized, tormented thing. It could be this peculiar, wondrous, bizarre collaboration, kind of conversation between Tom and the strange, external thing that was not quite Tom. When I heard that story, it started to shift a little bit the way that I worked too, and this idea already saved me once. It saved me when I was in the middle of writing ""Eat, Pray, Love,"" and I fell into one of those sort of pits of despair that we all fall into when we're working on something and it's not coming and you start to think this is going to be a disaster, the worst book ever written. Not just bad, but the worst book ever written. And I started to think I should just dump this project. But then I remembered Tom talking to the open air and I tried it. So I just lifted my face up from the manuscript and I directed my comments to an empty corner of the room. And I said aloud, ""Listen you, thing, you and I both know that if this book isn't brilliant that is not entirely my fault, right? Because you can see that I am putting everything I have into this, I don't have any more than this. If you want it to be better, you've got to show up and do your part of the deal. But if you don't do that, you know what, the hell with it. I'm going to keep writing anyway because that's my job. And I would please like the record to reflect today that I showed up for my part of the job."" (Laughter) Because — (Applause) Because in the end it's like this, OK — centuries ago in the deserts of North Africa, people used to gather for these moonlight dances of sacred dance and music that would go on for hours and hours, until dawn. They were always magnificent, because the dancers were professionals and they were terrific, right? But every once in a while, very rarely, something would happen, and one of these performers would actually become transcendent. And I know you know what I'm talking about, because I know you've all seen, at some point in your life, a performance like this. It was like time would stop, and the dancer would sort of step through some kind of portal and he wasn't doing anything different than he had ever done, 1,000 nights before, but everything would align. And all of a sudden, he would no longer appear to be merely human. He would be lit from within, and lit from below and all lit up on fire with divinity. And when this happened, back then, people knew it for what it was, you know, they called it by its name. They would put their hands together and they would start to chant, ""Allah, Allah, Allah, God, God, God."" That's God, you know. Curious historical footnote: when the Moors invaded southern Spain, they took this custom with them and the pronunciation changed over the centuries from ""Allah, Allah, Allah,"" to ""Olé, olé, olé,"" which you still hear in bullfights and in flamenco dances. In Spain, when a performer has done something impossible and magic, ""Allah, olé, olé, Allah, magnificent, bravo,"" incomprehensible, there it is — a glimpse of God. Which is great, because we need that. But, the tricky bit comes the next morning, for the dancer himself, when he wakes up and discovers that it's Tuesday at 11 a.m., and he's no longer a glimpse of God. He's just an aging mortal with really bad knees, and maybe he's never going to ascend to that height again. And maybe nobody will ever chant God's name again as he spins, and what is he then to do with the rest of his life? This is hard. This is one of the most painful reconciliations to make in a creative life. But maybe it doesn't have to be quite so full of anguish if you never happened to believe, in the first place, that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you. But maybe if you just believed that they were on loan to you from some unimaginable source for some exquisite portion of your life to be passed along when you're finished, with somebody else. And, you know, if we think about it this way, it starts to change everything. This is how I've started to think, and this is certainly how I've been thinking in the last few months as I've been working on the book that will soon be published, as the dangerously, frighteningly over-anticipated follow up to my freakish success. And what I have to sort of keep telling myself when I get really psyched out about that is don't be afraid. Don't be daunted. Just do your job. Continue to show up for your piece of it, whatever that might be. If your job is to dance, do your dance. If the divine, cockeyed genius assigned to your case decides to let some sort of wonderment be glimpsed, for just one moment through your efforts, then ""Olé!"" And if not, do your dance anyhow. And ""Olé!"" to you, nonetheless. I believe this and I feel that we must teach it. ""Olé!"" to you, nonetheless, just for having the sheer human love and stubbornness to keep showing up. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) June Cohen: Olé! (Applause)"	"我是個作家寫作是我的專業，但當然，不僅如此這也是我一輩子的最愛與迷戀所以我也沒想過這會有所改變但，說到這，最近有件相當奇特的事發生了在我的生命與事業生涯中這讓我重新審查我與這份工作間的整個關係而這特別的事就是我最近寫了這本書這本回憶錄叫做""飲食，禱告，愛""這本書很明顯地，跟我之前的書很不一樣因著某些原因被出版並成為相當轟動且國際知名的暢銷書這讓我現在不論到了哪人們都異樣地對待我，彷彿我已經完蛋了真的! 玩完了，沒救了！像是，他們會往前走向我，並擔心地說著""你不怕嗎？你不擔心你再沒有辦法寫出超越這本書的作品了嗎？""你不怕你終身都要一直寫作嗎？你不怕你再也無法創作出一本讓全世界的人都在乎的書從此不再 所以這一切都還蠻慶幸的，你也知道的但情況也可能更糟，要不是我突然記起二十年前，當我還是個青少年時，我第一次開始告訴人們我想要成為一個作家我常碰到同樣帶著出自幾分恐懼的反應然後人們會說，""難道你不怕你永遠都不會成功嗎？""難道你不怕被人拒絕的恥辱會把你逼到絕路嗎？難道你不怕終身都要做著這樣的工作卻一點成就都沒有嗎？然後你就這樣困死在破碎的夢當中言語中還充滿著失敗的苦楚（笑聲）諸如此類，你知道的 這答案，所有問題的答案，就是""是的""是的，我是害怕著這所有的事情而且我一直這樣害怕著而同時也有更多的事令我感到害怕這些是其他人不曾猜想到的像是海草，還有其他可怕的東西但，當講到寫作這一件事我最近常想到，並且不斷思索的是""為什麼""你知道的，這合理嗎？這合乎邏輯嗎？人們被預期著應該要為他們覺得在這世上註定做的工作感到害怕你知道的，創意工作到底有著什麼樣具體的東西似乎用著某種方式，讓我們變得如此緊張擔心於彼此的心靈健康在別種行業不太會這樣，對嗎？舉個例來說，像我父親，他是個化學工程師而你知道嗎？在他四十年的化學工程生涯中，我不曾記得任何人問過他是否他害怕成為一個化學工程師並沒有。 化學工程妨礙了約翰嗎？，狀況如何了呢？你知道的，事情並沒有變成這樣但平心而論，化學工程總體來說在過去的幾個世紀裡，並沒有因酗酒躁鬱症而享譽全世界（笑聲） 我們作家，就有點這樣的聲譽當然不只是作家，也包含了各領域的創作人才似乎都有著情緒非常不穩定的惡名你所需做的就是看看光在二十世紀，就有無數偉大的創作靈魂隕落這是多令人悲痛的死亡這些藝術家通常早逝且總是死於自己的手上，你知道嗎？而即使是那些沒有真的自殺的人就像你所知的，似乎也因著他們的天賦而被困擾抑鬱著諾曼˙梅勒，就在他死前的最後一場訪問，他說道""每個在我書中出現的角色都扼殺了我一些你知道的，這是對於你生命中的作品非常特殊的陳述但當我們聽到有人這樣說時，我們甚至連眼睛都不會眨一下因為長久以來我們都聽著這類的話語且不知為何，我們完全將這觀念內化並全面接受這觀念就是—我們的創造力和所遭受的痛苦息息相關而其中藝術的本質，到頭來，都會導致心中的苦悶 而今天我想問在場各位的問題是你們全部都接受這樣的想法嗎？你覺得這樣妥當嗎？因為即使是從一吋遠的地方來看這件事我對這樣的臆測仍無法完全認同我覺得這是很可恨的我也認為這是危險的而且我並不想看到這樣的想法延伸到下一個世紀我認為如果我們激勵我們偉大的創造心靈繼續活躍下去，那會更好 我當然知道，就我而言，在我的狀況來說如果我開始走入剛提的那條黑暗的假設路途，那是相當危險的尤其是我現在處於這樣的處境中處於現在的工作環境中這有點像是，你懂的，你瞧我相當年輕，我只有大概40歲也許我還有大概另外四十年的工作年頭而很有可能的是我從這一刻起寫的東西將被世界論斷為我上一部曠世巨作後的作品我應該直說，因為我們現在在此有點像是朋友很有可能的是，我最偉大的作品已在我身後了噢，天啊，這是多糟的一個想法你知道的，這是那種想法，會讓一個人一早九點就開始喝著琴酒而我並不想這樣（笑聲）我較喜歡繼續做我愛的工作 而這問題現在變成該怎麼辦呢？似乎對我來說，在多次省思後為了能繼續寫作，我現在必須採取的方式是我必須創造出某種保護式的心理架構從現在起，我必須，有點像是找出某個方式讓我在寫作時在我內心憂慮與我本身間保持安全距離而這憂慮無非來自他人對作品的反應過去的幾年，為了如何做到，我一直在尋找可以仿效的模式我依著歷史的時間軸去尋找我也一直在找其他的社會模式看看是否他們有更好且更合乎情理的想法讓我們可以知道如何幫助有創作力的人們這有點像是管理創作力下天生的情緒風險 這研究引領我回到古希臘與古羅馬所以請專心聽我說，因為我們還會繞回來講這個話題但，當時古老的希臘與羅馬人並不是湊巧相信創造力來自於人類人們相信創造力是種跟隨著人的神聖靈魂這來自於遙遠不可知的源頭，並存於人類因著遙遠且不可知的原因著名的希臘人稱這伴隨著人的創造力神聖靈魂為""守護神""名聲顯赫的蘇格拉底相信他就有這樣的守護神會從遠方向他傾瀉智慧羅馬人也有相同的概念但他們稱這種虛幻的創作靈為天才這是很棒的，因為事實上羅馬人並不認為天才是一個聰慧的單獨個體他們相信天才是一種不可思議並神聖的實體並相信這實體是真的住在藝術家工作室的牆壁中有點像是家中的小精靈多比祂能不為人察覺地出現並幫助藝術家完成作品並修飾作品讓其成形 這是如此地聰慧！就是這個，這就是我在講的距離心靈層面的構造可以讓你與作品保持距離而大家都知道這是如何運行的，對吧？所以古代的藝術家就可以受到保護，不被某些事物影響像是，太多的自我陶醉，對吧？如果你有著令人讚嘆的作品，你不能完全歸功於你本身大家都知道你有著這非實體的天才幫著你如果你工作不順，這也不完全是你的錯，明白嗎？大家會知道你內的天才有點拙劣這就是西方人長久以來對創造力的看法 接著文藝復興來臨並改變了所有的事我們有了這偉大的想法，也就是我們將人類個人放在宇宙的中心超越所有的神與一切的神祕事物，而且沒有留下多餘的空間給轉述神聖話語的奧祕生物這就是理性人文主義的開端人們開始相信創造力完完全全來自人類本身在歷史上，頭一次你開始聽到人們稱這個或那個藝術家為天才而非身邊有著天才的靈 而我必須告訴你，我認為這是個極大的錯誤你知道的，我認為任憑一個人，就只是一個人去相信他或她自己就像是個容器負載著像是所有神聖、有著創造力的、不可知的、永恆的奧祕這些事物的形狀、本質與源頭這只是在人類脆弱的靈魂上放上太多的責任這就像要一個人去吞下太陽這只會完全扭曲挫敗一個人的自我並製造出無法預期與掌握的成果我想這帶來的壓力已在過去的五百年中扼殺了我們身旁的藝術家 而，如果這是真的我想這也的確是真的現在面臨到的問題是，怎麻辦？我們是否可以有不同的作為？也許可以回溯到更古老的理解方式去看待人們與創造奧祕間的關係也許不行也許我們不能就這樣在十八分鐘的演講中就這樣抹煞了五百多年的理性人文主義也許在今天的觀眾中會有人提出相當合法的科學懷疑懷疑有關精靈的這種基本觀念這些精靈跟著人們到處跑並在作品上撒下精靈水或許，我並無法讓你們同意我的看法 但我要提出的問題是你知道的，為何不這樣想？為何不用這樣的方式作思考呢？因為這就跟我聽過的其他事情一樣地有道理尤其是在解釋這徹底瘋狂並變化無常的創作過程在創作過程中，當一個人試著創作出些什麼時基本上來說，在座的每個人都知道創作者並不總是理性地創作著而且，事實上，我們有時會覺得完全超乎常理 當我最近遇到傑出的美國詩人露絲·斯通時，就有這樣的感受她現在約九十多歲，在其一生中，她一直扮演詩人的角色她告訴我她成長於維吉利亞的鄉間她會在外面的田野工作著在那時，她會感受到並聽到一首詩從山水景色中來到她眼前她說這就像是列車行駛下轟隆轟隆響的空氣在山水之間向她傾洩而下然後她會感受到這股力量，因為這股力量會晃動她腳下的大地她很清楚在當下，她必須做的只有一件事那就是，套句她的話，""死命地奔跑""然後她會瘋狂奔跑到房子裡像是快被詩追趕上一般這一切就是要她是以極快的速度拿出紙筆快到讓她可以在當這一切靈感奔向她時，她可以匯集到一切並將其呈現在字句之間當然有時她速度不夠快所以她會一直奔跑，卻怎樣也跑不回家裡而這首詩不再傾洩而下，她錯過了這首詩她說這靈感會繼續在山水間尋找如她說的""尋找另一個詩人""然後也會有著這樣的時候這是我不會忘記的片刻她說她也會有幾乎錯過一首詩的時候所以，她會跑向房子並找出紙來然後詩會向她襲來當詩襲向她時，她會抓下一枝筆接著她說，這就像她伸出了另一隻手然後她會抓住這感覺她會抓住這首詩的尾巴接著她會順勢把詩向後拉入身體內並同時謄寫於紙本上時就在這些瞬間中，詩會精準完美地躍然紙上由後往前，從最後一個字到第一個字（笑聲） 所以當我聽到我就像—這真的很不可思議這簡直像是的我創作過程（笑聲） 這也不完全就是我的創作過程，我並不像一個輸油管我就像隻驢子，而我必須工作的方式就是每天必須同一時間起床然後笨拙地，汗如雨下地創作著但即使在我笨拙努力下即使我不時潤飾我的作品我可以想像得到你們大多數人也會這樣你們知道的，即使我努力創作或有著點子從某處向我展現時老實說，我無法認清這源頭而這是什麼呢？我們要用怎樣的方式與其相處卻不會讓我們喪失心智而是，事實上，卻很有可能讓我們保持清醒呢？ 對我來說，當代有個最好的例子讓我知道怎樣做到那就是音樂家湯姆威茲我幾年前曾因雜誌社的工作需要去採訪過他我們討論著這個話題你知道的，湯姆，終其一生，是個實實在在受盡折磨的當代藝術家的化身他試著去控制、管理並主宰這些無法掌控的創造衝動而這些衝動完全是內化的 但隨著年紀增長，他也越趨內斂有天他自洛杉磯的高速公路開車，他告訴我而這就是改變他一生的時刻當時他正在加速前進，突然間他聽到了這美妙旋律的片段這就像靈感臨到他腦海中，難以捉摸卻又令人心動著急你知道的，他迫切地想抓住它這是如此的珍貴，而他迫切地渴望著，但他沒辦法得著他沒有紙或筆他也沒有錄音機 於是他感覺到以往的焦急又開始向他襲擊而來像是，'我就要失去這靈感了!""""然後這旋律又要在我腦海中永遠揮之不去！""""我不夠好，我做不到！""沒有驚恐，相反地，他停下來他只是停下這所有的心理過程接著他做了件滿新穎的事他只是抬頭望著天空，然後說""不好意思，難道你看不出來我正在開車嗎？""(笑聲）""我現在看起來像是可以寫下一首歌嗎？如果你真的想要給我這樣的靈感，那就等等適合的時候等我有空應付的時候再來否則，今天就先去找別人吧去麻煩李歐納科恩吧 接著他整個的創作過程都改變了並不是作品本身，他的作品仍像以往一般黑暗但這過程，還有這其中巨大的焦慮感都在他將這創作的精靈解放出來時，也獲得舒緩在他心中，這天才引起的僅是困擾，將其釋放到它來的地方他瞭解這一切用不著像是現在這樣在心裡折磨或痛苦著這可以是獨特的，奇妙的，而又奇怪的結合有點像是湯姆和不太像湯姆本身這奇異外界事物間的對話 所以當我聽到這個故事，我也開始慢慢轉換我創作的方式這也已經救過我一次這觀點救了我一次，救出現在當我正在寫""飲食，祈禱，愛""""我又掉入了某個絕望的坑洞裡當我們在專注創作於某個作品時，我們會陷進去，靈感卻一直不來¥¥然後你開始會覺得這又將是一個大災難這將會是我寫過最糟的一本書不僅是糟糕，還會是有史以來最爛的我甚至會開始想我應該就把這計畫丟掉了但接著我又想到湯姆和空氣喊話的場景我試了一試所以我就從手稿中抬起頭來我對著房間的空角落講出了心中的想法接著我大聲地喊著，""你！聽著！你跟我都知道如果這本書不夠精彩這並不完全是我的錯，對嗎？因為你看的出來我已經盡全力去創作了我再也擠不出任何更好的東西了所以你若是要讓這創作更好，那你就要出現並做好你該做的工作如果你不做，也沒關係，你知道嗎？那就算了我還是會繼續寫作因為這是我的工作我希望今天記錄上記載的是我現身在我的工作崗位上（笑聲） 因為（掌聲）到最後會有點像在幾世紀前的北非沙漠中人們會為著月光下神聖的舞蹈與音樂聚集著這會延續著數小時，直到黎明這表演總是十分壯觀，因為舞者門相當的專業而且他們也很棒，對吧？但偶爾，很少地，還是會有這樣的事發生其中會有一位表演者真的表現得比別人優越我知道你們都明白我在講什麼因為我知道在你們生命中某些時刻一定看過像這樣的表演這一瞬間時間好像靜止了舞者會有點像是穿越過某種入口他所跳的動作其實跟一千個夜晚前做的表演沒有任何不同但一切都會安排好突然之間，他表現得不再像只是一個人類他會自內部發光，從心底層發光因著這神靈，所有的事物都跟著在火上發光 當這樣的事發生時當時的人們都知道為何會這樣，你知道的，他們會呼喊它的名他們會把手牽起來，開始吟唱著""阿拉，阿拉，阿拉，神啊，神，我的神！""這就是神，你知道嗎？這是很奇異的歷史註腳當摩爾帝國侵略南西班牙時，他們帶著這個習俗而在過去的幾個世紀裡，發音也隨著改變從 ""阿拉，阿拉，阿拉""到 "",""歐勒，歐勒，歐勒""這你可能在鬥牛賽與佛朗明歌中聽到在西班牙，當一個表演者做了件不可能且不可思議的表演時""阿拉！歐勒！歐勒！阿拉！棒呆了！好極了！不可置信的，就在那裡，你在表演者身上看到上天的化身這是很棒的，因為我們需要這些 但，隔天早上詭譎的事發生了當舞者他自己起床時會發現時間是星期二的早上11點，而他身上再也看不到神的影子他只會個會老化的人類，並有著受傷的膝蓋也許他再也無法到達那樣的表演高峰也許當他表演旋轉時，再也沒有人會吟唱著神的名字那他餘生該怎麼辦呢？這相當棘手這是我們在創作生涯中必須做的最痛苦的妥協之一但也許這一切不用這樣的痛苦如果你在一開始就不曾相信你自我最獨特的部分是來自於你本身也許你只是深信這些不凡的能力是借給你的來自某個不可思議的地方，為著成就你生命中某個細膩的部分而這些能力會在結束後，傳給下一個人而你知道的，當我們這樣想時，這就會開始改變所有的事 這就是我重新思考的方式這當然也是過去幾個月我所思考的方式同時我也忙於創作即將出版的下一本書也就是被過於期待到令我感到恐怖甚至驚慌上一本熱門暢銷書的續集 我所必須一直告訴我自己的是當我因創作又真的快精神崩潰時要知道，不要害怕別畏懼做你該做的繼續堅守在你的工作崗位上，無論這工作是什麼如果你的工作是跳舞，那就跳好你的舞如果那個分派到你創作上的那個非凡卻又荒誕的精靈決定在某些瞬間讓令人讚嘆的事透過你的創作被看見，那就真的太棒了若是沒有，那就繼續跳舞即使如此，你還是最棒的我深信不疑，也覺得我們應該把這個觀念教導出去不管怎樣，你都是最棒的憑藉著人類單純的愛與執著持續地堅守著我們的工作崗位 謝謝（掌聲）謝謝大家（掌聲） 瓊恩科恩：歐勒（掌聲）"
