Talk	en	zh-tw
elizabeth_lesser_take_the_other_to_lunch	"This room may appear to be holding 600 people, but there's actually so many more, because in each one of us there is a multitude of personalities. I have two primary personalities that have been in conflict and conversation within me since I was a little girl. I call them ""the mystic"" and ""the warrior."" I was born into a family of politically active, intellectual atheists. There was this equation in my family that went something like this: if you are intelligent, you therefore are not spiritual. I was the freak of the family. I was this weird little kid who wanted to have deep talks about the worlds that might exist beyond the ones that we perceive with our senses. I wanted to know if what we human beings see and hear and think is a full and accurate picture of reality. So, looking for answers, I went to Catholic mass. I tagged along with my neighbors. I read Sartre and Socrates. And then a wonderful thing happened when I was in high school: Gurus from the East started washing up on the shores of America. And I said to myself, ""I wanna get me one of them."" And ever since, I've been walking the mystic path, trying to peer beyond what Albert Einstein called ""the optical delusion of everyday consciousness."" So what did he mean by this? I'll show you. Take a breath right now of this clear air in this room. Now, see this strange, underwater, coral reef-looking thing? It's actually a person's trachea, and those colored globs are microbes that are actually swimming around in this room right now, all around us. If we're blind to this simple biology, imagine what we're missing at the smallest subatomic level right now and at the grandest cosmic levels. My years as a mystic have made me question almost all my assumptions. They've made me a proud I-don't-know-it-all. Now when the mystic part of me jabbers on and on like this, the warrior rolls her eyes. She's concerned about what's happening in this world right now. She's worried. She says, ""Excuse me, I'm pissed off, and I know a few things, and we better get busy about them right now."" I've spent my life as a warrior, working for women's issues, working on political campaigns, being an activist for the environment. And it can be sort of crazy-making, housing both the mystic and the warrior in one body. I've always been attracted to those rare people who pull that off, who devote their lives to humanity with the grit of the warrior and the grace of the mystic — people like Martin Luther King, Jr., who wrote, ""I can never be what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be. This,"" he wrote, ""is the interrelated structure of reality."" Then Mother Teresa, another mystic warrior, who said, ""The problem with the world is that we draw the circle of our family too small."" And Nelson Mandela, who lives by the African concept of ""ubuntu,"" which means ""I need you in order to be me, and you need me in order to be you."" Now we all love to trot out these three mystic warriors as if they were born with the saint gene. But we all actually have the same capacity that they do, and we need to do their work now. I'm deeply disturbed by the ways in which all of our cultures are demonizing ""the Other"" by the voice we're giving to the most divisive among us. Listen to these titles of some of the bestselling books from both sides of the political divide here in the U.S. ""Liberalism Is a Mental Disorder,"" ""Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot,"" ""Pinheads and Patriots,"" ""Arguing With Idiots."" They're supposedly tongue-in-cheek, but they're actually dangerous. Now here's a title that may sound familiar, but whose author may surprise you: ""Four-and-a-Half-Years of Struggle Against Lies, Stupidity and Cowardice."" Who wrote that? That was Adolf Hitler's first title for ""Mein Kampf"" — ""My Struggle"" — the book that launched the Nazi party. The worst eras in human history, whether in Cambodia or Germany or Rwanda, they start like this, with negative other-izing. And then they morph into violent extremism. This is why I'm launching a new initiative. And it's to help all of us, myself included, to counteract the tendency to ""otherize."" And I realize we're all busy people, so don't worry, you can do this on a lunch break. I'm calling my initiative, ""Take the Other to Lunch."" If you are a Republican, you can take a Democrat to lunch, or if you're a Democrat, think of it as taking a Republican to lunch. Now if the idea of taking any of these people to lunch makes you lose your appetite, I suggest you start more local, because there is no shortage of the Other right in your own neighborhood. Maybe that person who worships at the mosque, or the church or the synagogue, down the street. Or someone from the other side of the abortion conflict. Or maybe your brother-in-law who doesn't believe in global warming. Anyone whose lifestyle may frighten you, or whose point of view makes smoke come out of your ears. A couple of weeks ago, I took a Conservative Tea Party woman to lunch. Now on paper, she passed my smoking ears test. She's an activist from the Right, and I'm an activist from the Left. And we used some guidelines to keep our conversation elevated, and you can use them too, because I know you're all going to take an Other to lunch. So first of all, decide on a goal: to get to know one person from a group you may have negatively stereotyped. And then, before you get together, agree on some ground rules. My Tea Party lunchmate and I came up with these: don't persuade, defend or interrupt. Be curious; be conversational; be real. And listen. From there, we dove in. And we used these questions: Share some of your life experiences with me. What issues deeply concern you? And what have you always wanted to ask someone from the other side? My lunch partner and I came away with some really important insights, and I'm going to share just one with you. I think it has relevance to any problem between people anywhere. I asked her why her side makes such outrageous allegations and lies about my side. ""What?"" she wanted to know. ""Like we're a bunch of elitist, morally-corrupt terrorist-lovers."" Well, she was shocked. She thought my side beat up on her side way more often, that we called them brainless, gun-toting racists, and we both marveled at the labels that fit none of the people we actually know. And since we had established some trust, we believed in each other's sincerity. We agreed we'd speak up in our own communities when we witnessed the kind of ""otherizing"" talk that can wound and fester into paranoia and then be used by those on the fringes to incite. By the end of our lunch, we acknowledged each other's openness. Neither of us had tried to change the other. But we also hadn't pretended that our differences were just going to melt away after a lunch. Instead, we had taken first steps together, past our knee-jerk reactions, to the ubuntu place, which is the only place where solutions to our most intractable-seeming problems will be found. Who should you invite to lunch? Next time you catch yourself in the act of otherizing, that will be your clue. And what might happen at your lunch? Will the heavens open and ""We Are the World"" play over the restaurant sound system? Probably not. Because ubuntu work is slow, and it's difficult. It's two people dropping the pretense of being know-it-alls. It's two people, two warriors, dropping their weapons and reaching toward each other. Here's how the great Persian poet Rumi put it: ""Out beyond ideas of wrong-doing and right-doing, there is a field. I'll meet you there."" (Applause)"	這個禮堂看起來可以容納600個人但事實上可以更多因爲我們每一個人裏面都有不止一個的我（性格）。我有兩個主要的性格從我還是小女孩的時候這兩個性格就常在我内心裏相互衝突和對話我把這兩個性格一個叫“神秘家”一個叫“戰士”我從小生在一個在政治上活躍無神論的家庭裏。家裏有以下的認知：你如果有智慧那你就不該相信靈性的東西。我是家裏的怪胎我是一個怪小孩喜歡深入地探討這個我們感觸不到但是可能存在的世界。我想知道我們人類所看所聼所想的是不是跟事實的真相一模一樣？爲了找尋答案我去了參加天主教的彌撒我跟著我的鄰居一起去的。我讀沙特和蘇格拉底。後來發生了一件美妙的事：在我高中的時候從東方來的精神導師開始來到了美國。我跟我自己說“我也想跟一個導師學習。” 從此以後我就走上探索神秘靈性的道路試著去窺探超越那個愛因斯坦所謂的“日常生活意識的光學幻象”。他這麽說是什麽意思？接下來我會告訴你大家先吸一口這禮堂裏清淨的空氣。現在，看看這裡這個奇怪的像是水底下珊瑚礁的東西？這事實上是人的氣管末梢分支。還有這些彩色的像泥巴的東西是微生物他們懸浮在空氣間此時此刻，就在我們的身邊。如果光對這簡單的生物學我們都看不出來那麽去想想在最小的原子和最大的宇宙之間我們看不到的東西有多少？我追尋靈性的過程中讓我對所有的假設都產生疑問。這些年來我對我的“不全然知道”挺感驕傲。 當那個神秘家的我像這樣滔滔不絕地講個不完的時候戰士的我會（聼不下去）看別的地方。她很關心現時當下的世間發生的大小事。她很擔心她說，“對不起，我很不高興我是知道一些事的，而且我們最好現在就認真地來處理這些事。”我這一輩子活得像一個戰士為女性議題來奮戰從事政治活動也還是環保運動的活躍分子。在我的體内有神祕家和戰士共存這看起來是聼瘋狂的。有少數的特種個性的人深深地吸引著我這種人能在競賽中勝出，將他們的生命奉獻給人類還有著戰士般的膽量和神秘家的優雅—像馬丁路德金他曾寫過，“在你沒成爲你該成爲的人之前，我也無法成爲我該成爲的人。“他寫道，”這就是有著交錯盤結結構的現實。“泰瑞沙修女，另一個神秘的戰士她說，“這世界的問題皆起因于我們把家庭的範圍定義得太小。”曼德拉他按照一種非洲的觀念在生活“烏班圖（ubuntu）”意思是沒有了你我就無法成爲我，而你也需要我，來成就你自己。我們都很喜歡誇讚這三個神秘的戰士他們好像與生俱來都有聖人的基因。但事實上我們也都有能力做他們做的事，而現在我們也應該做他們做的事。 但是我對最近的情勢發展深感憂慮在各個不同的文化間藉著批判來凸顯我們互相間差異最多的地方和將對方惡魔化。看看最近這些暢銷書的標題在政黨對立下的美國代表對立兩方的立場暢銷書的標題：“自由主義是精神障礙”“Rush Limbaugh 是個大肥白痴”“笨蛋和愛國者”“和白痴講道理”他們是為了達到幽默和諷刺的效果但這是有危險性的。這跟下面的這本書的標題聼起來很類似但是知道作者的話你們會大吃一驚：“四年半的對抗謊言、愚昧及對抗懦弱的抗爭。”這是誰寫的？這是希特勒寫的“Mein Kamp(我的奮鬥)”的原先標題就是這本書策動了納粹黨。人類最黑暗的歷史時期裏不管在柬埔寨、德國或是盧安達都是從負面地分化你我開始接著演化到暴力的極端主義。 這也就是爲什麽我要發起一個新的提議來幫助大家包括我自己來跟這種負面的分化相互抗衡。我也了解大家都很忙所以，別擔心，這是午餐休息時間内就可以做的。我把這個新的提議叫做“請對手一同吃午餐”如果你是共和黨員你可以請一個民主黨員吃午餐或者，你是民主黨員你可以考慮請個共和黨員吃午餐。要是請以上這些人吃午餐的想法讓你胃口盡失我建議你可以從身邊做起因爲我們永遠有很多“對手”就在你的左右。這個人可能是去清真寺禮拜的回教徒；或是猶太教徒；或是在墮胎合法化上跟你持不同立場的人；也可能是你的那個不相信全球暖化的小舅子；或者生活方式讓你害怕的人；或是那個論調會讓你氣得七竅生煙的人； 幾個星期前我請一個茶葉黨的女士去吃午餐看看報紙上她的言論，是夠讓我七竅生煙的。她是右派的活躍分子我是左派的活躍分子我們約定了一些原則使我們的談話能愉快地進行你們也可以套用這些原則，因爲我知道你們也都會跟“對手”去吃午餐。首先，決定一個目標：你要去認識一個刻板印象十分負面的團體裏面的一個人。再來，見面以前先講好一些規則。我跟那個茶葉黨女士是這麽約定的：不去說服、答辯或打斷對方。要對對方有好奇心要維持會話的進行，還要真誠還有注意傾聽。 我們從這幾個點切入。我們問了這樣的問題：請跟我分享你的一些經驗。有什麽議題讓你十分牽挂？有什麽問題是你一直想問對方陣營的嗎？吃完午餐後，我的午餐伴和我得到了一些啓示我現在要來跟你們分享。因爲我覺得這跟世上任何人、任何問題都有關。我問她，為什麽她的陣營捏造出這些不實的指控和謊言加諸在我們這邊。“譬如說呢？”她想知道。“像，我們是一票道德淪喪，又喜歡恐怖分子的精英分子。”她十分的震驚她以爲我們更常放話攻擊他們，像，我們說他們沒大腦是崇拜槍支的種族主義者。我們兩邊都很吃驚因爲這些標簽跟我們認識的對方完全不符合。因爲我們互相建立起了一些信任我們相信對方的誠意。 我們同意下一次在自己的陣營裏聽到這種分化人們的言論時要出言制止因爲這類的言論會傷人製造偏執，而進而被偏激分子用來煽動人群。在午餐結束的時候我們互相肯定了對方開誠佈公的態度我們沒有試著要去改變對方。我們也沒有假裝說吃一頓午餐後，我們之間的差異就可以煙消雲散。我們各往前邁了一部放下了以前立即反擊的反射性保衛來到烏班圖（ubuntu）的境界這也是唯一一個互動良好能夠找到解決問題的方法的地方。 那麽，你該邀誰來午餐？下一囘你發現自己把他人當作非我族類時這就是個很好的指標。所以，你吃完這頓午餐後有什麽會改變？天堂的門會大開餐廳的音響還會同時播放“四海一家”嗎？大概不會。因爲要達到烏班圖的過程是漫長的也是十分困難的。這需要兩個人同時放下“我什麽都知道”的成見。這需要兩個人兩個戰士放下他們的武器同時向對方邁出一步。偉大的波斯詩人盧米曾這麽寫過：“放下這些誰對誰錯的成見，在這之外，有一個地方讓我們在那裏相見吧。” （掌聲）
