Talk	en	zh-tw
elizabeth_lesser_say_your_truths_and_seek_them_in_others	"Like many of us, I've had several careers in my life, and although they've been varied, my first job set the foundation for all of them. I was a home-birth midwife throughout my 20s. Delivering babies taught me valuable and sometimes surprising things, like how to start a car at 2am. when it's 10 degrees below zero. (Laughter) Or how to revive a father who's fainted at the sight of blood. (Laughter) Or how to cut the umbilical cord just so, to make a beautiful belly button. But those aren't the things that stuck with me or guided me when I stopped being a midwife and started other jobs. What stuck with me was this bedrock belief that each one of us comes into this world with a unique worth. When I looked into the face of a newborn, I caught a glimpse of that worthiness, that sense of unapologetic selfhood, that unique spark. I use the word ""soul"" to describe that spark, because it's the only word in English that comes close to naming what each baby brought into the room. Every newborn was as singular as a snowflake, a matchless mash-up of biology and ancestry and mystery. And then that baby grows up, and in order to fit into the family, to conform to the culture, to the community, to the gender, that little one begins to cover its soul, layer by layer. We're born this way, but — (Laughter) But as we grow, a lot of things happen to us that make us ... want to hide our soulful eccentricities and authenticity. We've all done this. Everyone in this room is a former baby — (Laughter) with a distinctive birthright. But as adults, we spend so much of our time uncomfortable in our own skin, like we have ADD: authenticity deficit disorder. But not those babies — not yet. Their message to me was: uncover your soul and look for that soul-spark in everyone else. It's still there. And here's what I learned from laboring women. Their message was about staying open, even when things are painful. A woman's cervix normally looks like this. It's a tight little muscle at the base of the uterus. And during labor, it has to stretch from this to this. Ouch! If you fight against that pain, you just create more pain, and you block what wants to be born. I'll never forget the magic that would happen when a woman stopped resisting the pain and opened. It was as if the forces of the universe took notice and sent in a wave of help. I never forgot that message, and now, when difficult or painful things happen to me in my life or my work, of course at first I resist them, but then I remember what I learned from the mothers: stay open. Stay curious. Ask the pain what it's come to deliver. Something new wants to be born. And there was one more big soulful lesson, and that one I learned from Albert Einstein. He wasn't at any of the births, but — (Laughter) It was a lesson about time. At the end of his life, Albert Einstein concluded that our normal, hamster-wheel experience of life is an illusion. We run round and round, faster and faster, trying to get somewhere. And all the while, underneath surface time is this whole other dimension where the past and the present and the future merge and become deep time. And there's nowhere to get to. Albert Einstein called this state, this dimension, ""only being."" And he said when he experienced it, he knew sacred awe. When I was delivering babies, I was forced off the hamster wheel. Sometimes I had to sit for days, hours and hours, just breathing with the parents; just being. And I got a big dose of sacred awe. So those are the three lessons I took with me from midwifery. One: uncover your soul. Two: when things get difficult or painful, try to stay open. And three: every now and then, step off your hamster wheel into deep time. Those lessons have served me throughout my life, but they really served me recently, when I took on the most important job of my life thus far. Two years ago, my younger sister came out of remission from a rare blood cancer, and the only treatment left for her was a bone marrow transplant. And against the odds, we found a match for her, who turned out to be me. I come from a family of four girls, and when my sisters found out that I was my sister's perfect genetic match, their reaction was, ""Really? You?"" (Laughter) ""A perfect match for her?"" Which is pretty typical for siblings. In a sibling society, there's lots of things. There's love and there's friendship and there's protection. But there's also jealousy and competition and rejection and attack. In siblinghood, that's where we start assembling many of those first layers that cover our soul. When I discovered I was my sister's match, I went into research mode. And I discovered that the premise of transplants is pretty straightforward. You destroy all the bone marrow in the cancer patient with massive doses of chemotherapy, and then you replace that marrow with several million healthy marrow cells from a donor. And then you do everything you can to make sure that those new cells engraft in the patient. I also learned that bone marrow transplants are fraught with danger. If my sister made it through the near-lethal chemotherapy, she still would face other challenges. My cells might attack her body. And her body might reject my cells. They call this rejection or attack, and both could kill her. Rejection. Attack. Those words had a familiar ring in the context of being siblings. My sister and I had a long history of love, but we also had a long history of rejection and attack, from minor misunderstandings to bigger betrayals. We didn't have the kind of the relationship where we talked about the deeper stuff; but, like many siblings and like people in all kinds of relationships, we were hesitant to tell our truths, to reveal our wounds, to admit our wrongdoings. But when I learned about the dangers of rejection or attack, I thought, it's time to change this. What if we left the bone marrow transplant up to the doctors, but did something that we later came to call our ""soul marrow transplant?"" What if we faced any pain we had caused each other, and instead of rejection or attack, could we listen? Could we forgive? Could we merge? Would that teach our cells to do the same? To woo my skeptical sister, I turned to my parents' holy text: the New Yorker Magazine. (Laughter) I sent her a cartoon from its pages as a way of explaining why we should visit a therapist before having my bone marrow harvested and transplanted into her body. Here it is. ""I have never forgiven him for that thing I made up in my head."" (Laughter) I told my sister we had probably been doing the same thing, carting around made-up stories in our heads that kept us separate. And I told her that after the transplant, all of the blood flowing in her veins would be my blood, made from my marrow cells, and that inside the nucleus of each of those cells is a complete set of my DNA. ""I will be swimming around in you for the rest of your life,"" I told my slightly horrified sister. (Laughter) ""I think we better clean up our relationship."" A health crisis makes people do all sorts of risky things, like quitting a job or jumping out of an airplane and, in the case of my sister, saying ""yes"" to several therapy sessions, during which we got down to the marrow. We looked at and released years of stories and assumptions about each other and blame and shame until all that was left was love. People have said I was brave to undergo the bone marrow harvest, but I don't think so. What felt brave to me was that other kind of harvest and transplant, the soul marrow transplant, getting emotionally naked with another human being, putting aside pride and defensiveness, lifting the layers and sharing with each other our vulnerable souls. I called on those midwife lessons: uncover your soul. Open to what's scary and painful. Look for the sacred awe. Here I am with my marrow cells after the harvest. That's they call it — ""harvest,"" like it's some kind of bucolic farm-to-table event — (Laughter) Which I can assure you it is not. And here is my brave, brave sister receiving my cells. After the transplant, we began to spend more and more time together. It was as if we were little girls again. The past and the present merged. We entered deep time. I left the hamster wheel of work and life to join my sister on that lonely island of illness and healing. We spent months together — in the isolation unit, in the hospital and in her home. Our fast-paced society does not support or even value this kind of work. We see it as a disruption of real life and important work. We worry about the emotional drain and the financial cost — and, yes, there is a financial cost. But I was paid in the kind of currency our culture seems to have forgotten all about. I was paid in love. I was paid in soul. I was paid in my sister. My sister said the year after transplant was the best year of her life, which was surprising. She suffered so much. But she said life never tasted as sweet, and that because of the soul-baring and the truth-telling we had done with each other, she became more unapologetically herself with everyone. She said things she'd always needed to say. She did things she always wanted to do. The same happened for me. I became braver about being authentic with the people in my life. I said my truths, but more important than that, I sought the truth of others. It wasn't until the final chapter of this story that I realized just how well midwifery had trained me. After that best year of my sister's life, the cancer came roaring back, and this time there was nothing more the doctors could do. They gave her just a couple of months to live. The night before my sister died, I sat by her bedside. She was so small and thin. I could see the blood pulsing in her neck. It was my blood, her blood, our blood. When she died, part of me would die, too. I tried to make sense of it all, how becoming one with each other had made us more ourselves, our soul selves, and how by facing and opening to the pain of our past, we'd finally been delivered to each other, and how by stepping out of time, we would now be connected forever. My sister left me with so many things, and I'm going to leave you now with just one of them. You don't have to wait for a life-or-death situation to clean up the relationships that matter to you, to offer the marrow of your soul and to seek it in another. We can all do this. We can be like a new kind of first responder, like the one to take the first courageous step toward the other, and to do something or try to do something other than rejection or attack. We can do this with our siblings and our mates and our friends and our colleagues. We can do this with the disconnection and the discord all around us. We can do this for the soul of the world. Thank you. (Applause)"	和大多數人一樣，我這一生做了很多工作，雖然工作性質很不一樣，但我的第一份工作奠定了往後工作的基礎。我 20 歲的那幾年，從事的是家庭助產士。接生小孩讓我學會了很多令人驚嘆的事情，像是如何在凌晨2點零下10度時發動車子。 （笑聲） 或像是如何叫醒一個看到血就暈倒的爸爸。 （笑聲） 或是如何把臍帶剪得剛好，就為了一個漂亮的肚臍。 但當我不再做助產士，開始其它工作時，並不是這些事情一直陪伴或是指引我。一直陪伴我的是這個堅如磐石的信仰：我們每個人都帶著獨特的意義來到這個世界。當我看著新生兒的臉蛋時，我看見的是那無價、天真無邪的獨特火花。我之所以會用「靈魂」來形容那種火花的原因，是因為靈魂是唯一個可以用來形容新生命初來到世上時的英文字。 每一個新生命如雪花般的非凡，一個融合了生物學、血統和神秘的無價小生命。然後寶寶長大了，為了融入家庭、順應文化，順應社區，順應性別角色，這個小生命會開始一層一層地覆蓋上靈魂，我們都是這樣長大的，但... （笑聲） 長大後，我們發生了很多事，讓我們...想隱藏我們搞怪卻又真實的靈魂。我們都有這樣做過。這個房間裡的每個人都曾是嬰兒—— （笑聲） 有著與眾不同的天賦。但身為成年人的我們，我們在這層皮囊下，多數時間都過得不如意，彷彿我們有ADD：真實性缺陷障礙症。但那些嬰兒——還沒有。他們給我的信息是：敞開你的靈魂並尋找每個人的靈魂火花，它依然存在每個人心中。 我從產婦那裏學到：她們的訊息告訴我，要保持樂觀開放，即使相當痛苦。通常，女人的子宮頸看起來就像這樣，牠是子宮底部一塊緊緻的小肌肉，而當在分娩時，洞會從這麼大，擴張大這麼大。痛啊！如果你與疼痛抗爭你只會更痛，你只會堵住了那躍躍欲出的生命。 我永遠忘不了奇蹟發生的那一刻，當產婦停止對痛苦的抵抗，並張開子宮口時，彷彿宇宙的力量聽到了我們的呼喚，並幫忙推了一把。我永遠忘不了那訊息，現在，當我在生活或工作中遇到困境時，一開始我當然會抵抗，但之後我就會回想到從媽媽們那邊學到的：保持開放、保持好奇。詢問這個痛苦是要傳遞甚麼訊息給我，有甚麼新事物要到來。 還有更重要的一堂靈魂課程，我是從愛因斯坦那邊學到的。他是不懂接生啦，但... （笑聲） 這是一堂與時間有關的課程。在愛因斯坦去世前，他總結出，我們如倉鼠般平凡忙碌的生活，是一種幻覺。我們不停的奔跑，越跑越快，嘗試著想到達某一個地方，但回頭一看，在時間表像的背後，是另一個維度，是一個過去、現在與未來的結合體，它們變成深度時光，到了那個境界，你哪都不用去了。 愛因斯坦稱這種狀態，這種維度為：「原生 」他說，當他切身體會到 「原生」時，他感受到無比神聖的敬畏。當我在接生嬰兒時，我被迫脫離忙碌的生活。有時候得坐上好幾個小時乃至好幾天，僅為了與父母親們一起偋住呼吸；迎接「原生」的到來。這時我就會感受到無比的神聖敬畏。 所以，這些就是一直陪伴著我的三堂助產士課程。一：敞開你的靈魂。二：當事情變得困難或痛苦時，盡量保持開放。三：無論何時，盡快脫離倉鼠式的忙碌生活，進入深度時光。 這些課程伴隨了我一生，但最近它讓我感受最深的是在我經歷了最重要的人生課程的時候。 兩年前，我妹妹剛從罕見的血癌病症中康復，之後唯一能夠治療她的方法就只剩骨髓移植。歷經千辛萬苦，我們找到了符合她配型的人，結果那個人就是我。我來自四個女生的家庭當姊妹們發現我是我妹的最佳配型時，她們的反應是，「不會吧？怎麼是你？」 （笑聲） 「她的最佳配型？」這是典型親戚的反應。親人間，有很多故事。有愛、有友誼、有保護。但也有嫉妒和競爭拒絕和攻擊。在親人關係中，我們開始組成靈魂的層次，這是覆蓋我們靈魂第一層的地方。 當我知道我是我妹妹的最佳配型時，我進入了研究模式。而我發現移植的原理是很直截了當的。你只要破壞癌症患者的所有骨髓用大量的化療方式，以數百萬的健康骨髓細胞替換病患的骨髓即可。想盡辦法，盡可能的確保那些新細胞有植入到患者體內。我也了解到骨髓移植充滿了危險。如果我妹度過了幾近死亡的化療過程，她仍然有其它的挑戰需克服。我的細胞可能會攻擊她的身體。而她的身體可能會拒絕我的細胞。他們稱之為排斥或攻擊，這兩種狀況都可能致死。 拒絕，攻擊。這些字眼，在親人圈裡，是相當司空見慣的。我妹和我有一段很長的友愛歷史，但我們也有長期互看不爽和攻擊對方的歷史，從小小的誤解到重大的背叛。我們當時根本談不上甚麼更深層的東西；但，就像很多親人和其他處與各種關係的人們一樣，彼此之間不好意思說出實話、很難互相傾訴痛苦、不願承認犯過的錯誤。 但當我了解拒絕或攻擊的危險時，我在想，是時候要改變了。要是我們就讓醫生做骨髓移植手術，我們彼此做「靈魂的骨髓移植手術」？要是我們可以坦然面對造成對方受傷的事情，而不是拒絕或攻擊，我們可以互相傾聽嗎？我們可以原諒彼此嗎？我們可以再度結合嗎？這可以讓我們的細胞也做同樣的事嗎？ 為了博取瘦骨如柴妹妹的歡心，我找上了爸媽拜讀的聖經：《紐約人雜誌》 （笑聲） 我傳送了一張裡面的照片給她，在收成並移植我的骨髓到她身體裡面之前，解釋了一下我們為什麼要去找醫生治療。就是這一張。 我永遠不會原諒他那件我自己腦袋瞎掰出來的事。 （笑聲） 我告訴我的妹妹我們可能彼此做了同樣的事情，腦海陷入在虛構故事的泥沼裡，讓彼此斷絕關係。我告訴她骨髓移植之後，所有流動在她靜脈的血液將會是從我的骨髓細胞中製造出來的血，而這些細胞裡的細胞核都是由我的 DNA 所組成。我向我那有點嚇壞的妹妹說，「在你的餘生，我會在你體內游來游去」。 （笑聲） 我想我們最好整理一下我們的關係。 嚴重的健康問題，可以讓人做出任何冒險的決定，像是辭職或是從飛機上跳下來，而以我妹妹的案例而言，她在骨髓移植期間的一些治療階段，只能說「好」。我們回顧並互相坦白這幾年來發生的事、彼此間的臆測、責備、羞辱，直到剩下愛。 大家說我很勇敢，有勇氣去動骨髓移植的手術，但我不這麼認為。讓我有勇氣的是另一種移植，一種與另一個人坦白彼此情感的靈魂骨髓移植，一種放下自尊心和防禦心，昇華到另一種層次的移植，我們分享彼此脆弱的靈魂。我回顧了從助產士所學到的這些課程：敞開你的靈魂。對害怕與痛苦保持樂觀開放。尋找神聖的敬畏。 移植之後，我跟我的骨髓細胞拍了張照片。他們說，這是收成，有點像把田園菜端上桌的過程—— （笑聲） 但我可以向各位保證，並不是那樣。這張是我勇敢的妹妹，接收我細胞時的照片。移植後，我們開始花越來越多的時間在一起。我們彷彿又回到了小女孩時代。過去與現在融合在一起。我們進入到深度時光。我離開了倉鼠式的工作與生活，來幫助妹妹，一起度過疾病和治療的孤單島嶼。我們在一起好幾個月——在隔離病房中，在醫院和在她家中。 我們快速節奏的社會並不支持或甚至認為這樣的工作不值。我們把它視為真實生活中或重要工作中的絆腳石。我們擔心情感的流失及金錢上的損失——的確，是有金錢上的付出。但我是用一種我們文化似乎已經遺忘的金錢來支付的。我是用愛支付的，我是用靈魂支付的，我是用我妹支付的。 我妹說，在移植後的那一年，是她生命中最棒的一年，她相當開心。她這麼痛苦。但她說，生活再也不會那樣的甜蜜，因為我們彼此敞開靈魂說實話，她面對每個人時，變得很自責。她說出了她一直想說的話。她做出了她一直想做的事。我也一樣。我在面對生命中的人們時，變得更加勇敢真誠。我說出了我的真理，但更重要的是，我也找到了別人的真理。 直到這個故事的最後一章，我才了解到助產士把我教地多好。在度過了我妹妹人生中最棒的那一年後，癌症再度復發，這一回，醫生們也沒轍了，他們告訴她，她剩下幾個月的時間可活。 在我妹妹去世之前的前一晚，我坐在她的床邊。她是如此的瘦弱，我看著她脖子上血的脈動，流的是我的血、她的血、我們的血。當她死了，我生命中的一部分也死了。 我嘗試地去了解整個道理，如何讓大家融為一體，讓我們成為真正的自己，擁有真誠的靈魂，如何面對並敞開我們過去的痛苦，讓我們彼此最終能解脫，如何跳脫時間的限制，讓我們永遠地連結在一起。 我妹留下了很多給我，我想向各位分享其中一件事。你不必非等到生死攸關的盡頭才願意釐清對你很重要的人際關係、才想奉獻你靈魂的骨髓才想去尋找另一個靈魂。我們每個人都可以辦到。我們要當第一個回應的人，要當一個可以勇敢踏出第一步走向另一個人的人，並做些事或嘗試做出些事，而不是拒絕或攻擊。我們可以與我們的親人一起做，與配偶一起做，還有我們的朋友及同事。我們可以向我們生活周遭已經沒聯絡或曾經有過衝突的人這樣做。為世界的靈魂我們可以這樣做。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
