Talk	en	zh-tw
ellen_t_hoen_pool_medical_patents_save_lives	"In 2002, a group of treatment activists met to discuss the early development of the airplane. The Wright Brothers, in the beginning of the last century, had for the first time managed to make one of those devices fly. They also had taken out numerous patents on essential parts of the airplane. They were not the only ones. That was common practice in the industry, and those who held patents on airplanes were defending them fiercely and suing competitors left and right. This actually wasn't so great for the development of the aviation industry, and this was at a time that in particular the U.S. government was interested in ramping up the production of military airplanes. So there was a bit of a conflict there. The U.S. government decided to take action, and forced those patent holders to make their patents available to share with others to enable the production of airplanes. So what has this got to do with this? In 2002, Nelson Otwoma, a Kenyan social scientist, discovered he had HIV and needed access to treatment. He was told that a cure did not exist. AIDS, he heard, was lethal, and treatment was not offered. This was at a time that treatment actually existed in rich countries. AIDS had become a chronic disease. People in our countries here in Europe, in North America, were living with HIV, healthy lives. Not so for Nelson. He wasn't rich enough, and not so for his three-year-old son, who he discovered a year later also had HIV. Nelson decided to become a treatment activist and join up with other groups. In 2002, they were facing a different battle. Prices for ARVs, the drugs needed to treat HIV, cost about 12,000 [dollars] per patient per year. The patents on those drugs were held by a number of Western pharmaceutical companies that were not necessarily willing to make those patents available. When you have a patent, you can exclude anyone else from making, from producing or making low-cost versions, for example, available of those medications. Clearly this led to patent wars breaking out all over the globe. Luckily, those patents did not exist everywhere. There were countries that did not recognize pharmaceutical product patents, such as India, and Indian pharmaceutical companies started to produce so-called generic versions, low-cost copies of antiretroviral medicines, and make them available in the developing world, and within a year the price had come down from 10,000 dollars per patient per year to 350 dollars per patient per year, and today that same triple pill cocktail is available for 60 dollars per patient per year, and of course that started to have an enormous effect on the number of people who could afford access to those medicines. Treatment programs became possible, funding became available, and the number of people on antiretroviral drugs started to increase very rapidly. Today, eight million people have access to antiretroviral drugs. Thirty-four million are infected with HIV. Never has this number been so high, but actually this is good news, because what it means is people stop dying. People who have access to these drugs stop dying. And there's something else. They also stop passing on the virus. This is fairly recent science that has shown that. What that means is we have the tools to break the back of this epidemic. So what's the problem? Well, things have changed. First of all, the rules have changed. Today, all countries are obliged to provide patents for pharmaceuticals that last at least 20 years. This is as a result of the intellectual property rules of the World Trade Organization. So what India did is no longer possible. Second, the practice of patent-holding companies have changed. Here you see the patent practices before the World Trade Organization's rules, before '95, before antiretroviral drugs. This is what you see today, and this is in developing countries, so what that means is, unless we do something deliberate and unless we do something now, we will very soon be faced with another drug price crisis, because new drugs are developed, new drugs go to market, but these medicines are patented in a much wider range of countries. So unless we act, unless we do something today, we will soon be faced [with] what some have termed the treatment time bomb. It isn't only the number of drugs that are patented. There's something else that can really scare generic manufacturers away. This shows you a patent landscape. This is the landscape of one medicine. So you can imagine that if you are a generic company about to decide whether to invest in the development of this product, unless you know that the licenses to these patents are actually going to be available, you will probably choose to do something else. Again, deliberate action is needed. So surely if a patent pool could be established to ramp up the production of military airplanes, we should be able to do something similar to tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic. And we did. In 2010, UNITAID established the Medicines Patent Pool for HIV. And this is how it works: Patent holders, inventors that develop new medicines patent those inventions, but make those patents available to the Medicines Patent Pool. The Medicines Patent Pool then license those out to whoever needs access to those patents. That can be generic manufacturers. It can also be not-for-profit drug development agencies, for example. Those manufacturers can then sell those medicines at much lower cost to people who need access to them, to treatment programs that need access to them. They pay royalties over the sales to the patent holders, so they are remunerated for sharing their intellectual property. There is one key difference with the airplane patent pool. The Medicines Patent Pool is a voluntary mechanism. The airplane patent holders were not left a choice whether they'd license their patents or not. They were forced to do so. That is something that the Medicines Patent Pool cannot do. It relies on the willingness of pharmaceutical companies to license their patents and make them available for others to use. Today, Nelson Otwoma is healthy. He has access to antiretroviral drugs. His son will soon be 14 years old. Nelson is a member of the expert advisory group of the Medicines Patent Pool, and he told me not so long ago, ""Ellen, we rely in Kenya and in many other countries on the Medicines Patent Pool to make sure that new medicines also become available to us, that new medicines, without delay, become available to us."" And this is no longer fantasy. Already, I'll give you an example. In August of this year, the United States drug agency approved a new four-in-one AIDS medication. The company, Gilead, that holds the patents, has licensed the intellectual property to the Medicines Patent Pool. The pool is already working today, two months later, with generic manufacturers to make sure that this product can go to market at low cost where and when it is needed. This is unprecedented. This has never been done before. The rule is about a 10-year delay for a new product to go to market in developing countries, if at all. This has never been seen before. Nelson's expectations are very high, and quite rightly so. He and his son will need access to the next generation of antiretrovirals and the next, throughout their lifetime, so that he and many others in Kenya and other countries can continue to live healthy, active lives. Now we count on the willingness of drug companies to make that happen. We count on those companies that understand that it is in the interest, not only in the interest of the global good, but also in their own interest, to move from conflict to collaboration, and through the Medicines Patent Pool they can make that happen. They can also choose not to do that, but those that go down that road may end up in a similar situation the Wright brothers ended up with early last century, facing forcible measures by government. So they'd better jump now. Thank you. (Applause)"	2002年 一群為愛滋病治療積極奔走的活躍人士聚在一起討論飛機早期的發展萊特兄弟在上世紀初首次成功實現人工飛行萊特兄弟還為飛機的核心部件申報了大量的專利當時 並非只有萊特兄弟這麼做這種做法在業界普遍存在而這些飛行器專利的持有者大力維護自己的專利權對競爭者的任何侵權行為一定控訴到底 實際上這種做法不利於航空工業的發展而當時 美國政府又特別希望可以大幅提高軍用飛機的產量所以矛盾也就出現了美國政府決定採取行動強迫專利持有者將其持有的專利與他人共享從而實現飛機的量產 那麼這兩者又是如何產生聯繫的呢？ 2002年 一位名叫Nelson Otwona的肯尼亞社會科學家被發現攜帶HIV病毒 需要接受治療醫生告訴他愛滋病是無法治愈的愛滋病是一種致命的疾病沒有可以治愈愛滋病的療法 但實際上當時在富裕的國家治療方法是存在的愛滋病已經變成一種慢性病在歐洲在北美 在我們的國家攜帶HIV病毒的人們也可以健康地生活但對於Nelson情況卻不是這樣Nelson不是有錢人 他三歲的兒子更不是在Nelson被診斷出HIV病毒後一年 他的兒子也被查出攜帶HIV Nelson決定成為一名治療活躍人士並加入了其他團體在2002年 他們面臨的是一場不同的戰鬥ARVs是一種用於治療HIV的藥物而當時ARVs的價格高達每名患者每年一萬兩千美元西方的一些製藥公司持有這些藥物的專利權而這些製藥公司並不太希望將持有的專利與他人共享只要持有專利便可以限制他人製造或是生產廉價的產品 比如說生產廉價的藥品很顯然 這種做法觸發了全球範圍內的專利戰 幸運的是 這些專利並非無處不在有一些國家 比如像印度並不承認醫藥產品專利一些印度製藥公司開始生產所謂的通用版和廉價版的抗逆轉錄藥物並將這些藥物投放到發展中國家一年之內 這些藥物的價格便從每名患者每年一萬美元下降到每名患者每年350美元而今天每名愛滋病患者每年只需花費60美元便可以接受三聯雞尾酒療法當然 產生的影響是巨大的越來越多的患者將能夠負擔起藥物費用有可能接受治療有能力支付費用 並且服用抗逆轉錄藥物患者的人數開始大幅增長 現在有800萬人口能夠拿到抗逆轉錄藥物而感染HIV病毒的患者有三千四百萬這個數字是前所未有的但事實上這是好消息因為這意味著人們的死亡率在降低能夠獲得藥物治療的人便可免於一死除此之外病毒攜帶者也不會繼續傳染給其他人最新的科學研究已經表明了這一點這就意味著我們已經有辦法可以抑制愛滋病毒的傳播 那麼 問題是什麽呢？嗯 情況已經變了首先 規則變了現今 所有國家都必須為藥物申報專利每項專利的時限最少為20年世貿組織的知識產權法促成了這一結果所以 印度的做法不再可行其次 持有專利的公司也改變了自己的做法這張圖顯示的是 世貿組織出臺知識產權法規之前也就是1995年之前 抗逆轉錄藥物出現之前藥物專利申報的情況而這張圖顯示了現在藥物專利的申報情況這是在發展中國家 也就意味著除非我們能夠慎重考慮馬上採取一些行動否則要不了多久就會發現 我們將面臨另一場藥物價格危機因為不斷在開發新藥 不斷有新藥投入市場但這些藥物都有專利限制而且這些專利被更多國家認可因此 除非我們現在馬上採取行動否則很快我們便將面臨一些人所說的治療時間炸彈 不僅僅是申報專利藥物的數量使得通用製藥商退避三舍還有一些其他的因素從這裡 可以看到專利分佈圖這是一種藥物的專利分佈圖因此 可以想像如果你是一家通用製藥公司正要決定是否投資開發一項產品那麼除非你知道確實可以獲得這項產品的專利許可否則你可能另有打算再次強調 我們必須慎重考慮並採取行動 因此 可以肯定的是如果通過成立一個專利聯盟可以大幅提升軍用飛機的量產那麼我們也應該能夠用類似的方式解決HIV或愛滋病毒的傳播 我們確實做到了2010年 國際藥品採購機制（UNITAID）成立了HIV藥物專利聯盟它的運作方式是這樣的研發新藥物的專利持有者 藥物發明者為新發明的藥物申報專利但向藥物專利聯盟開放這些新藥物的專利許可權藥物專利聯盟再將這些專利許可權授權給任何有需要的人可能是通用製藥商也可能是非盈營利藥物開發機構等等然後這些製藥商便能夠以極低的價格向有需要的人和治療計劃出售這些藥物通過銷售營利 他們向專利持有者支付版權費用因此專利持有者也因為分享自己的知識產權獲得報酬 這與飛機專利聯盟唯一不同的地方在於藥物專利聯盟是一個自發的機制飛機專利持有者並沒有選擇的餘地無論是否願意他們都不得不授權自己的專利藥物專利聯盟沒有權力強迫任何人完全依賴製藥公司的自願自發向他人授權自己的專利權為他人所用 今天 Nelson Otwoma可以健康地生活他能夠接受抗逆轉錄藥物的治療他的兒子也馬上要14歲了Nelson是藥物專利聯盟專家顧問團的一員不久前他曾告訴我“Ellen 在肯尼亞以及許多其他的國家我們全都依賴藥物專利聯盟確保我們能夠獲得新藥確保我們能夠及時地獲得新藥物” 這已經不再是空想這已經是現實 我和大家分享一個實例今年8月 美國藥品局批准了一個新的四合一愛滋病藥物擁有該藥物專利權的Gilead公司已經向藥物專利聯盟授權該專利的使用許可今天 僅僅兩個月後 聯盟已經在和通用製藥商合作確保這個產品可以最低的成本 在需要的時刻地點投放市場 這是前所未有的以前從未發生過在以前 一劑新藥面世後通常需要十年的時間才能投放發展中國家市場以前從未有過Nelson有非常高的期望也是理所當然的 他和他的兒子這終其一生中都需要下一代以及再下一代更新的抗逆轉錄藥物這樣他和許許多多生活在肯尼亞和其他國家的人們才能夠健康積極地生活下去 現在 我們依賴的是藥物公司的自願自發我們依賴的是這些藥物公司能夠明白由對立轉向協作這不僅僅是符合全球利益的也是符合他們自身利益的通過藥物專利聯盟 這一切都有可能實現當然他們也可以選擇不合作但是可能會落得上世紀初萊特兄弟一樣的下場政府將會採取強制措施所以 最好還是現在就行動謝謝（掌聲）
