Talk	en	zh-tw
ellen_gustafson_obesity_hunger_1_global_food_issue	"I'm Ellen and I'm totally obsessed with food. But I didn't start out obsessed with food. I started out obsessed with global security policy, because I lived in New York during 9/11 and it was a very relevant thing. I got from global security policy to food because I realized when I'm hungry, I'm really pissed off, and I'm assuming the rest of the world is too. Especially if you and your kids are hungry and your neighbor's kids are hungry and your whole neighborhood is hungry. And actually, it looks like the areas of the world that are hungry are also the areas of the world that are pretty insecure. So I took a job at the United Nations World Food Programme as a way to try to address these security issues through food security issues. There, I came across what I think is the most brilliant of their programs. It's called School Feeding and it's a really simple idea to get in the middle of the cycle of poverty and hunger that continues for a lot of people around the world, and stop it. A free school meal gets kids into school, which is education, the first step out of poverty, but it also gives them the micronutrients and the macronutrients they need to develop mentally and physically. While I was working at the UN, I met this girl. Her name is Lauren Bush. And she had this really awesome idea to sell the bag, called the ""Feed Bag"" — which is really beautifully ironic because you can strap on the Feed Bag. But each bag we'd sell would provide a year's worth of school meals for one kid. It's so simple, and we thought, OK, it costs between 20 and 50 bucks to provide school feeding for a year. We could sell these bags and raise a ton of money and awareness for the World Food Programme. But at the UN, sometimes things move slowly and they basically said no. And we thought, this is such a good idea, it's going to raise so much money. So we said screw it, we'll start our own company, which we did, three years ago. That was my first dream, to start this company called FEED, and here's a screenshot of our website. We did a bag for Haiti just a month after the earthquake to provide school meals for kids in Haiti. So FEED's doing great. We've so far provided 55 million meals to kids around the world by selling now 550,000 bags, a ton of bags, a lot of bags. All this time you're really — hunger is a hard thing to think about, because what we think about is eating. I think about eating a lot and I really love it. And the thing that's strange about international hunger and talking about international issues is that most people want to know: ""What are you doing for America's kids?"" There's definitely hunger in America: 49 million people and almost 16.7 million children. I mean that's pretty dramatic for our own country. Hunger definitely means something different in America than it does internationally, but it's incredibly important to address hunger in our own country. But the bigger problem that we all know about is obesity, and it's dramatic. The other thing that's dramatic is that both hunger and obesity have really risen in the last 30 years. Unfortunately, obesity's not only an American problem. It's actually been spreading all around the world and mainly through our kind of food systems that we're exporting. The numbers are pretty crazy. There's a billion people obese or overweight and a billion people hungry. So those seem like two bifurcated problems, but I kind of started to think about, you know, what is obesity and hunger? What are both those things about? Well, they're both about food. And when you think about food, the underpinning of food in both cases is potentially problematic agriculture. And agriculture is where food comes from. Agriculture in America's very interesting. It's very consolidated and the foods that are produced lead to the foods that we eat. The foods that are produced are, more or less, corn, soy and wheat. And that's three-quarters of the food that we're eating: processed foods and fast foods. Unfortunately, in our agricultural system, we haven't done a good job in the last three decades of exporting those technologies around the world. So African agriculture, which is the place of most hunger in the world, has actually fallen precipitously as hunger has risen. So somehow we're not making the connect between exporting a good agricultural system that will help feed people all around the world. Who is farming? That's what I was wondering. So I went and stood on a big grain bin in the Midwest, and that really didn't help me understand farming, but I think it's a really cool picture. And the reality is that between farmers in America — who actually, quite frankly, when I spend time in the Midwest, are pretty large in general. And their farms are also large. But farmers in the rest of the world are actually quite skinny, and that's because they're starving. Most hungry people in the world are subsistence farmers. And most of those people are women — which is a totally other topic that I won't get on right now, but I'd love to do the feminist thing at some point. I think it's really interesting to look at agriculture from these two sides. There's this large, consolidated farming that's led to what we eat in America, and it's really been since around 1980, after the oil crisis, when, you know — mass consolidation, mass exodus of small farmers in this country. And then in the same time period, we've kind of left Africa's farmers to do their own thing. Unfortunately, what is farmed ends up as what we eat. And in America, a lot of what we eat has led to obesity and has led to a real change in sort of what our diet is, in the last 30 years. It's crazy. A fifth of kids under two drinks soda. Hello! You don't put soda in bottles. But people do, because it's so cheap, and so our whole food system in the last 30 years has really shifted. I mean, you know, it's not just in our own country, but really we're exporting the system around the world, and when you look at the data of least developed countries — especially in cities, which are growing really rapidly — people are eating American processed foods. And in one generation, they're going from hunger and all of the detrimental health effects of hunger to obesity and things like diabetes and heart disease in one generation. So the problematic food system is affecting both hunger and obesity. Not to beat a dead horse, but this is a global food system where there's a billion people hungry and a billion people obese. I think that's the only way to look at it. And instead of taking these two things as bifurcated problems that are very separate, it's really important to look at them as one system. We get a lot of our food from all around the world and people from all around the world are importing our food system, so it's incredibly relevant to start a new way of looking at it. I've learned — and the technology people here, which I'm totally not one of — but apparently, it really takes 30 years for a lot of technologies to become really endemic to us, like the mouse and the Internet and Windows. You know, there's 30-year cycles. I think 2010 can be a really interesting year because it is the end of the 30-year cycle, and it's the birthday of the global food system. That's the first birthday I want to talk about. If we really think that this is something that's happened in the last 30 years, there's hope in that. It's the 30th anniversary of GMO crops and the Big Gulp, Chicken McNuggets, high-fructose corn syrup, the farm crisis in America and the change in how we've addressed agriculture internationally. So there's a lot of reasons to take this 30-year time period as sort of the creation of this new food system. I'm not the only one who's obsessed with this whole 30-year thing. The icons like Michael Pollan and Jamie Oliver in his TED Prize wish both addressed this last three-decade time period as incredibly relevant for food system change. Well, I really care about 1980 because it's also the 30th anniversary of me this year. And so in my lifetime, a lot of what's happened in the world — and being a person obsessed with food — a lot of this has really changed. So my second dream is that I think we can look to the next 30 years as a time to change the food system again. And we know what's happened in the past, so if we start now and we look at technologies and improvements to the food system long-term, we might be able to recreate the food system so when I give my next talk and I'm 60 years old, I'll be able to say that it's been a success. So I'm announcing today the start of a new organization, or a new fund within the FEED Foundation, called the 30 Project. And the 30 Project is really focused on these long-term ideas for food system change. And I think by aligning international advocates that are addressing hunger and domestic advocates that are addressing obesity, we might actually look for long-term solutions that will make the food system better for everyone. We all tend to think that these systems are quite different and people argue whether or not organic can feed the world, but if we take a 30-year view, there's more hope in collaborative ideas. So I'm hoping that by connecting really disparate organizations like the ONE campaign and Slow Food, which don't seem right now to have much in common, we can talk about holistic, long-term, systemic solutions that will improve food for everyone. Some ideas I've had is like, look, the reality is — kids in the South Bronx need apples and carrots and so do kids in Botswana. And how are we going to get those kids those nutritious foods? Another thing that's become incredibly global is production of meat and fish. Understanding how to produce protein in a way that's healthy for the environment and healthy for people will be incredibly important to address things like climate change and how we use petrochemical fertilizers. And, you know, these are really relevant topics that are long-term and important for both people in Africa who are small farmers and people in America who are farmers and eaters. And I also think that thinking about processed foods in a new way, where we actually price the negative externalities like petrochemicals and like fertilizer runoff into the price of a bag of chips — Well, if that bag of chips then becomes inherently more expensive than an apple, then maybe it's time for a different sense of personal responsibility in food choice because the choices are actually choices instead of three-quarters of the products being made just from corn, soy and wheat. The 30Project.org is launched and I've gathered a coalition of a few organizations to start. And it'll be growing over the next few months. But I really hope that you will all think of ways that you can look long-term at things like the food system and make change. (Applause)"	"我是艾倫，而我對於食物可說是相當著迷。但我一開始並不是要研究食物，我一開始是著重在全球安全政策，這是因為我在911期間住在紐約，而這很明顯地跟我的研究相當有關聯。而我從全球安全政策轉而關注食物，因為我明白當我飢餓時，我會很惱怒，而我想全世界其他人也是如此。尤其是當你很餓，而且你的孩子也是的時候，甚至你鄰居的孩子及整個社區的人都是在飢餓的狀態中，這會讓你真的很憤怒。事實上，狀況看起來像是，世界上處於飢餓的區域同時也是不安全的區域。 所以我接下了聯合國世界糧食計畫的一份工作，試著透過糧食安全議題，藉此來向大家強調這些安全議題。當我在做這份工作時，我注意到了聯合國做得最傑出的計畫。這個計劃叫做學校餵養，而這真的是一個相當簡單的主意，就是介入持續困擾著世界上許多人的二個問題—貧窮與飢餓，介入到這個循環中間，阻止惡性循環。藉著供給孩童免費的學校餐點，可鼓勵孩子進入學校，而很明顯的，教育，是走出貧窮的第一步。這些餐點還可以供給孩子他們所需的各種營養素，讓孩子在心理與生理上有更健全的發展。 當我在聯合國工作時，我遇見了這個女孩。她的名字叫做蘿倫. 布希。她提出了一個相當棒的想法，就是販賣這個叫做""餵養袋""的袋子。這個名稱相當諷刺，也很恰當，因為你真的可以把餵養袋掛在胸前。我們所販賣的每一個袋子，可以提供每個孩子一年的學校餐費。這真的很簡單，而我們想，你知道的，一年你只要花二十到五十元，就可以提供一年的學校餐費。我們可以販賣這些袋子並募得許多錢，還有讓更多人認識世界糧食計畫。但當然，你知道在聯合國，有時事情進展得相當緩慢，基本上他們否決了這個計畫。我們想，天啊! 這真的是非常棒的計畫而且可以募到相當多錢，我們想管他的，我們就在三年前成立了自己的公司。成立FEED公司有點像是我的第一個夢想，這是我們網站的畫面。我們為海地製作這個袋子，在大地震之後一個月開始販賣，為海地的孩童提供學校餐點。而FEED發展得相當好。到目前為止我們在全世界賣出了五十五萬五仟個餵養袋，提供了約五千五百萬份學校餐點給各地的孩子。 當你想到飢餓時，這真的蠻難想像的，因為我們所想的都是食物。我會想到食物，而我真的也很喜歡吃。當人們提到全球性飢餓及相關議題時，有一點很奇怪的是，大部分的人多少都想知道你在美國做了些什麼？你為美國的孩子做了什麼?在美國也絕對有飢餓存在著，將近有四千九百萬人，和接近一千六百七十萬個孩童在捱餓著，這對我們國家來說真的很特別。美國的飢餓問題和全球其他地方的飢餓問題當然會有點不一樣，但在我們國家強調飢餓這個課題也是很重要的。而我們都很清楚，在美國更大的問題很明顯是肥胖，這真的很特別。還有另一件事也很特別，那就是飢餓與肥胖的數量，在過去三十年都上升了。不幸的，肥胖不僅是美國的問題，這其實是全世界共有的問題，而且主要是由我們所輸出的飲食習慣所造成的。這些數據真的很誇張。有十億的人口是肥胖或過重的，但卻有十億的人口是吃不飽的。 這兩個看起來像是不一樣的問題，但我開始重新思考，就像你們知道的，何謂肥胖?何謂飢餓? 這兩者有什麼共同點?好的，它們都是糧食問題。而當你想到糧食時，飢餓與肥胖的糧食問題，核心都指向有問題的農業。而農業就是提供我們糧食的來源。而在美國，農業是相當有趣的，而且相當發達，農業生產出的糧食會變成我們所吃的食物。目前生產的農產品，大多都是玉米，大豆還有小麥。如你所見，我們吃進去的食物裡，有四分之三都是加工食品，還有速食。不幸的，在我們的農業系統裡，過去的三十年都沒有扮演好應有的角色，沒有將這些農業技術輸出到世界上的其他國家。所以在非洲，世界上最鬧飢荒的地方，農業其實是相當的落後，而飢餓的現象也在惡化。但我們並不是想要談輸出農業系統這件事，當然這會幫助餵飽世界上更多人。 我所疑惑的是，到底是誰在耕種呢?所以我去了中西部，站在一個巨大的穀物桶上。這其實並沒有幫我了解到農業，但我想我照了一張還蠻酷的照片。而大家都知道的，事實是，當我在中西部和美國農夫相處時，我發現他們的塊頭都相當大，而他們的農場也相當大。但世界上其他地方的農夫實際上是相當瘦的，這是因為他們都吃不飽。世界上大部分飢餓的人都是以農業為生的農夫，而在這之中，大部分是女人，這個話題雖然並不是我現在要討論的，但我也樂意為女性議題做些事。我認為從這兩方面來看農業發展，是相當有趣的一件事。美國廣大且發展良好的農業，決定了我們美國人的飲食。而這是從1980年開始的，大概是在石油危機之後，如同大家所知，那時候農業大量合併，小型農場的農夫紛紛出走。在這同時，我們的策略有點是讓非洲的農民們自生自滅。不幸的，耕作出的糧食就是我們所吃下肚的東西。而在美國，我們吃的許多食物，導致人們肥胖，並且改變了我們過去三十年來的飲食習慣。 這真的是很瘋狂。兩歲以下的兒童有五分之一都喝汽水，拜託，沒人會把汽水放進奶瓶裡，但大家都這樣做，因為汽水很便宜。而我們整個的飲食習慣也在過去的三十年間做了很大的改變。我想，你們也知道，這不只發生在我們的國家，但我們的的確確是把這樣的習慣傳到世界各地。當你看看這些發展最落後國家的數據，尤其是在城市中，人們食用美國加工食品的數據，成長得相當快。而在同一個世代中，有些人處於飢餓狀態，還要承受飢餓所引起的健康問題，有些人則過度肥胖，有糖尿病、心臟病等問題。所以這種有問題的飲食習慣，正同時產生出飢餓與肥胖這兩個問題。我們並不是在老調重彈，但這是一個全球性的飲食問題，在這之中有十億人在捱餓，另外卻也有十億人過度肥胖。我想唯一解決問題的方法，不是把這兩個問題看成毫不相干的兩件事，而是把飢餓與肥胖看成是同一個問題。我們從世界各地取得許多食物，同樣的，世界各地的人也向美國學習飲食習慣。所以，從新的角度看待這件事是相當重要的。 而我學到的是，這裡有相當多的科技人士，我當然不在其內，但很明顯的，許多科學家必須花上三十年才能做出市場上的流行商品，像是滑鼠，網路還有微軟的Windows。你知道的，這是個三十年的循環。我認為2010年會是相當有趣的一年，因為到2010年會是這一個三十年循環的結尾。這是全球新世代飲食習慣的三十週年紀念日，我想要談談這第一個三十週年。大家都知道，如果我們真的認為這是過去三十年累積下來而產生的結果，那我們還有希望。這是基因作物、重量杯汽水、麥克雞塊、高果糖玉米糖漿、美國農場危機、以及我們對全球農業態度轉變的三十週年紀念日。所以將這個三十年的週期看做是新飲食習慣的誕生，是很有道理的。我並不是唯一一個執著於這個三十年週期的人，代表人物像是麥克。保倫，以及傑米。奧利佛，他在許下TED願望時，就曾指出，過去的三十年，是我們飲食習慣改變的重大時期。老實說，我也真的很在乎1980年，因為今年剛好也是我三十歲生日。而在我的生命中，發生了許多事，做為一個對食物有所執著的人，很多事真的都變得不一樣了。 所以我的第二個夢想是，讓我們往下一個三十年看，並將其視為再一次改變飲食習慣的時機。我們知道過去所發生的一切，如果我們從現在開始，正視飲食習慣的長期發展，導入科技加以改善，我們很有可能可以再創造出新的飲食習慣。這樣一來，當我六十歲發表下一場演說時，我就能夠說這真的是非常成功。所以我現在要來宣布一個新組織正式成立，這是在FEED基金會下的一個計畫，叫做30計畫。30計畫著重在改變飲食習慣這個長期理念。我想將國際對於飢餓的關注和國內對於肥胖議題的重視做結合，我們真的很有可能找到長期的解決方式，並找出有益於每個人的飲食習慣。 我們都認為飲食習慣大相逕庭，人們也質疑有機食物是否能夠餵飽全世界，但如果我們從30年週期的角度看，將這些議題綜合起來，會更有希望找到解決方案。所以我希望藉由結合不同的組織團體，像是ONE運動以及慢食運動，這些組織現在似乎沒有太多共通處，但我們可討論長期、整體性且有系統的解決方案，來改善你我所吃的食物。有些想法，像是我剛提的，在南布朗克斯的孩子需要蘋果與胡蘿蔔，而在博茨瓦納的孩子也一樣。那我們要如何讓這些孩子取得營養的食物呢? 另一個全球化的議題則是肉類與魚類的生產，瞭解如何生產出能兼顧環境與人類健康的蛋白質，將是很重要的事，因為這關係到氣候變遷、以及我們如何使用石化肥料等議題。大家都知道，這些都是息息相關的議題，長期來說，對非洲的小農夫、美國農夫、以及消費者都是相當的重要。 我也認為，我們應該以全新的角度來看待加工食品，實際上，這些加工食品裡所添加的不良添加物，像是石化肥料等，其成本都已被累加進一包洋芋片的販售價格當中。如果一包洋芋片的販售價格，比一顆蘋果還來的貴，那也許該是我們好好想想的時候了，我們每個人都必須為所選擇的食物負責，因為你可以選擇，而不是讓玉米、大豆和小麥被做成佔我們食物來源四分之三的加工食品。 這項30計畫已經展開，我也邀請到了一些組織開始加入，在未來幾個月還會有更多組織加入。我真的希望大家能以長期的角度來想想辦法，想想我們的飲食習慣，並做出改變。 (掌聲)"
