Talk	en	zh-tw
ellen_dunham_jones_retrofitting_suburbia	"In the last 50 years, we've been building the suburbs with a lot of unintended consequences. And I'm going to talk about some of those consequences and just present a whole bunch of really interesting projects that I think give us tremendous reasons to be really optimistic that the big design and development project of the next 50 years is going to be retrofitting suburbia. So whether it's redeveloping dying malls or re-inhabiting dead big-box stores or reconstructing wetlands out of parking lots, I think the fact is the growing number of empty and under-performing, especially retail, sites throughout suburbia gives us actually a tremendous opportunity to take our least-sustainable landscapes right now and convert them into more sustainable places. And in the process, what that allows us to do is to redirect a lot more of our growth back into existing communities that could use a boost, and have the infrastructure in place, instead of continuing to tear down trees and to tear up the green space out at the edges. So why is this important? I think there are any number of reasons, and I'm just going to not get into detail but mention a few. Just from the perspective of climate change, the average urban dweller in the U.S. has about one-third the carbon footprint of the average suburban dweller, mostly because suburbanites drive a lot more, and living in detached buildings, you have that much more exterior surface to leak energy out of. So strictly from a climate change perspective, the cities are already relatively green. The big opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is actually in urbanizing the suburbs. All that driving that we've been doing out in the suburbs, we have doubled the amount of miles we drive. It's increased our dependence on foreign oil despite the gains in fuel efficiency. We're just driving so much more; we haven't been able to keep up technologically. Public health is another reason to consider retrofitting. Researchers at the CDC and other places have increasingly been linking suburban development patterns with sedentary lifestyles. And those have been linked then with the rather alarming, growing rates of obesity, shown in these maps here, and that obesity has also been triggering great increases in heart disease and diabetes to the point where a child born today has a one-in-three chance of developing diabetes. And that rate has been escalating at the same rate as children not walking to school anymore, again, because of our development patterns. And then there's finally — there's the affordability question. I mean, how affordable is it to continue to live in suburbia with rising gas prices? Suburban expansion to cheap land, for the last 50 years — you know the cheap land out on the edge — has helped generations of families enjoy the American dream. But increasingly, the savings promised by drive-till-you-qualify affordability — which is basically our model — those savings are wiped out when you consider the transportation costs. For instance, here in Atlanta, about half of households make between $20,000 and $50,000 a year, and they are spending 29 percent of their income on housing and 32 percent on transportation. I mean, that's 2005 figures. That's before we got up to the four bucks a gallon. You know, none of us really tend to do the math on our transportation costs, and they're not going down any time soon. Whether you love suburbia's leafy privacy or you hate its soulless commercial strips, there are reasons why it's important to retrofit. But is it practical? I think it is. June Williamson and I have been researching this topic for over a decade, and we've found over 80 varied projects. But that they're really all market driven, and what's driving the market in particular — number one — is major demographic shifts. We all tend to think of suburbia as this very family-focused place, but that's really not the case anymore. Since 2000, already two-thirds of households in suburbia did not have kids in them. We just haven't caught up with the actual realities of this. The reasons for this have a lot to with the dominance of the two big demographic groups right now: the Baby Boomers retiring — and then there's a gap, Generation X, which is a small generation. They're still having kids — but Generation Y hasn't even started hitting child-rearing age. They're the other big generation. So as a result of that, demographers predict that through 2025, 75 to 85 percent of new households will not have kids in them. And the market research, consumer research, asking the Boomers and Gen Y what it is they would like, what they would like to live in, tells us there is going to be a huge demand — and we're already seeing it — for more urban lifestyles within suburbia. That basically, the Boomers want to be able to age in place, and Gen Y would like to live an urban lifestyle, but most of their jobs will continue to be out in suburbia. The other big dynamic of change is the sheer performance of underperforming asphalt. Now I keep thinking this would be a great name for an indie rock band, but developers generally use it to refer to underused parking lots — and suburbia is full of them. When the postwar suburbs were first built out on the cheap land away from downtown, it made sense to just build surface parking lots. But those sites have now been leapfrogged and leapfrogged again, as we've just continued to sprawl, and they now have a relatively central location. It no longer just makes sense. That land is more valuable than just surface parking lots. It now makes sense to go back in, build a deck and build up on those sites. So what do you do with a dead mall, dead office park? It turns out, all sorts of things. In a slow economy like ours, re-inhabitation is one of the more popular strategies. So this happens to be a dead mall in St. Louis that's been re-inhabited as art-space. It's now home to artist studios, theater groups, dance troupes. It's not pulling in as much tax revenue as it once was, but it's serving its community. It's keeping the lights on. It's becoming, I think, a really great institution. Other malls have been re-inhabited as nursing homes, as universities, and as all variety of office space. We also found a lot of examples of dead big-box stores that have been converted into all sorts of community-serving uses as well — lots of schools, lots of churches and lots of libraries like this one. This was a little grocery store, a Food Lion grocery store, that is now a public library. In addition to, I think, doing a beautiful adaptive reuse, they tore up some of the parking spaces, put in bioswales to collect and clean the runoff, put in a lot more sidewalks to connect to the neighborhoods. And they've made this, what was just a store along a commercial strip, into a community gathering space. This one is a little L-shaped strip shopping center in Phoenix, Arizona. Really all they did was they gave it a fresh coat of bright paint, a gourmet grocery, and they put up a restaurant in the old post office. Never underestimate the power of food to turn a place around and make it a destination. It's been so successful, they've now taken over the strip across the street. The real estate ads in the neighborhood all very proudly proclaim, ""Walking distance to Le Grande Orange,"" because it provided its neighborhood with what sociologists like to call ""a third place."" If home is the first place and work is the second place, the third place is where you go to hang out and build community. And especially as suburbia is becoming less centered on the family, the family households, there's a real hunger for more third places. So the most dramatic retrofits are really those in the next category, the next strategy: redevelopment. Now, during the boom, there were several really dramatic redevelopment projects where the original building was scraped to the ground and then the whole site was rebuilt at significantly greater density, a sort of compact, walkable urban neighborhoods. But some of them have been much more incremental. This is Mashpee Commons, the oldest retrofit that we've found. And it's just incrementally, over the last 20 years, built urbanism on top of its parking lots. So the black and white photo shows the simple 60's strip shopping center. And then the maps above that show its gradual transformation into a compact, mixed-use New England village, and it has plans now that have been approved for it to connect to new residential neighborhoods across the arterials and over to the other side. So, you know, sometimes it's incremental. Sometimes, it's all at once. This is another infill project on the parking lots, this one of an office park outside of Washington D.C. When Metrorail expanded transit into the suburbs and opened a station nearby to this site, the owners decided to build a new parking deck and then insert on top of their surface lots a new Main Street, several apartments and condo buildings, while keeping the existing office buildings. Here is the site in 1940: It was just a little farm in the village of Hyattsville. By 1980, it had been subdivided into a big mall on one side and the office park on the other and then some buffer sites for a library and a church to the far right. Today, the transit, the Main Street and the new housing have all been built. Eventually, I expect that the streets will probably extend through a redevelopment of the mall. Plans have already been announced for a lot of those garden apartments above the mall to be redeveloped. Transit is a big driver of retrofits. So here's what it looks like. You can sort of see the funky new condo buildings in between the office buildings and the public space and the new Main Street. This one is one of my favorites, Belmar. I think they really built an attractive place here and have just employed all-green construction. There's massive P.V. arrays on the roofs as well as wind turbines. This was a very large mall on a hundred-acre superblock. It's now 22 walkable urban blocks with public streets, two public parks, eight bus lines and a range of housing types, and so it's really given Lakewood, Colorado the downtown that this particular suburb never had. Here was the mall in its heyday. They had their prom in the mall. They loved their mall. So here's the site in 1975 with the mall. By 1995, the mall has died. The department store has been kept — and we found this was true in many cases. The department stores are multistory; they're better built. They're easy to be re-adapted. But the one story stuff ... that's really history. So here it is at projected build-out. This project, I think, has great connectivity to the existing neighborhoods. It's providing 1,500 households with the option of a more urban lifestyle. It's about two-thirds built out right now. Here's what the new Main Street looks like. It's very successful, and it's helped to prompt — eight of the 13 regional malls in Denver have now, or have announced plans to be, retrofitted. But it's important to note that all of this retrofitting is not occurring — just bulldozers are coming and just plowing down the whole city. No, it's pockets of walkability on the sites of under-performing properties. And so it's giving people more choices, but it's not taking away choices. But it's also not really enough to just create pockets of walkability. You want to also try to get more systemic transformation. We need to also retrofit the corridors themselves. So this is one that has been retrofitted in California. They took the commercial strip shown on the black-and-white images below, and they built a boulevard that has become the Main Street for their town. And it's transformed from being an ugly, unsafe, undesirable address, to becoming a beautiful, attractive, dignified sort of good address. I mean now we're hoping we start to see it; they've already built City Hall, attracted two hotels. I could imagine beautiful housing going up along there without tearing down another tree. So there's a lot of great things, but I'd love to see more corridors getting retrofitting. But densification is not going to work everywhere. Sometimes re-greening is really the better answer. There's a lot to learn from successful landbanking programs in cities like Flint, Michigan. There's also a burgeoning suburban farming movement — sort of victory gardens meets the Internet. But perhaps one of the most important re-greening aspects is the opportunity to restore the local ecology, as in this example outside of Minneapolis. When the shopping center died, the city restored the site's original wetlands, creating lakefront property, which then attracted private investment, the first private investment to this very low-income neighborhood in over 40 years. So they've managed to both restore the local ecology and the local economy at the same time. This is another re-greening example. It also makes sense in very strong markets. This one in Seattle is on the site of a mall parking lot adjacent to a new transit stop. And the wavy line is a path alongside a creek that has now been daylit. The creek had been culverted under the parking lot. But daylighting our creeks really improves their water quality and contributions to habitat. So I've shown you some of the first generation of retrofits. What's next? I think we have three challenges for the future. The first is to plan retrofitting much more systemically at the metropolitan scale. We need to be able to target which areas really should be re-greened. Where should we be redeveloping? And where should we be encouraging re-inhabitation? These slides just show two images from a larger project that looked at trying to do that for Atlanta. I led a team that was asked to imagine Atlanta 100 years from now. And we chose to try to reverse sprawl through three simple moves — expensive, but simple. One, in a hundred years, transit on all major rail and road corridors. Two, in a hundred years, thousand foot buffers on all stream corridors. It's a little extreme, but we've got a little water problem. In a hundred years, subdivisions that simply end up too close to water or too far from transit won't be viable. And so we've created the eco-acre transfer-to-transfer development rights to the transit corridors and allow the re-greening of those former subdivisions for food and energy production. So the second challenge is to improve the architectural design quality of the retrofits. And I close with this image of democracy in action: This is a protest that's happening on a retrofit in Silver Spring, Maryland on an Astroturf town green. Now, retrofits are often accused of being examples of faux downtowns and instant urbanism, and not without reason; you don't get much more phony than an Astroturf town green. I have to say, these are very hybrid places. They are new but trying to look old. They have urban streetscapes, but suburban parking ratios. Their populations are more diverse than typical suburbia, but they're less diverse than cities. And they are public places, but that are managed by private companies. And just the surface appearance are often — like the Astroturf here — they make me wince. So, you know, I mean I'm glad that the urbanism is doing its job. The fact that a protest is happening really does mean that the layout of the blocks, the streets and blocks, the putting in of public space, compromised as it may be, is still a really great thing. But we've got to get the architecture better. The final challenge is for all of you. I want you to join the protest and start demanding more sustainable suburban places — more sustainable places, period. But culturally, we tend to think that downtowns should be dynamic, and we expect that. But we seem to have an expectation that the suburbs should forever remain frozen in whatever adolescent form they were first given birth to. It's time to let them grow up, so I want you to all support the zoning changes, the road diets, the infrastructure improvements and the retrofits that are coming soon to a neighborhood near you. Thank you."	在過去的五十年中我們一直在建設郊區帶來了許多意想不到的後果我今天就要來談談其中的一些並向各位介紹一系列非常有意思的計劃使我們有充份的理由信心十足在接下來的50年中，重要的設計開發計畫將會是郊區改造不論是重建衰落的購物中心重新利用關掉的超級廣場或者是在停車場上重建濕地我認為事實上越來越多空置和不景氣的尤其是零售場所散佈在城市郊區為我們提供了一個絕好的機會讓我們把目前最不永續的建築形式改造成可永續發展的空間這個過程使我們能夠更多的把經濟增長引導到需要幫助的現有的社區去幫助其完善基礎設施而不是繼續砍伐樹木或者毀掉週邊的綠地 這為什麼很重要?我想有諸多原因我不想詳述細節﹐只提幾點就好僅從氣候變化的角度來看在美國一個普通城市居民留下的碳足跡相當於一個郊區居民的三分之一很大程度上因為郊區居民開車更頻繁而且住獨立房屋他們有更多的戶外表面導致更多能源泄漏所以嚴格從氣候變化的角度來講城市本身更加節能減少溫室氣體排放的一個良機實際上就是郊區城市化我們在郊區要經常駕駛汽車我們駕駛的英里數已經翻倍這使我們更加依賴從外國進口的石油儘管汽車燃油效率提高了但我們比以前更長開車我們的技術沒有跟上郊區化的速度 公共衛生是另一個考慮改造的原因疾病控制中心和其他機構的研究者發現越來越多的郊區發展模式與久坐的生活方式有關而這種生活方式又與驚人的肥胖症的增長速度相關如地圖所示而肥胖症又會導致心臟病和糖尿病的激增以至於今天出生的嬰兒每三個人中就有一個有患糖尿病的機率和這個概率同步增長的是兒童不再走路去學校這又是因為我們的發展模式的問題 最後還有支付能力的問題隨著汽油價格不斷上漲有多少人還能負擔得起繼續在郊區生活?過去的50年,郊區向更廉價的土地擴張城市邊緣的廉價土地幫助好幾代家庭實現了他們的美國夢但是逐漸地﹐“開到你能買得起為止”這種我們的發展模式所承諾的存款如果算上交通費用已經蕩然無存比如﹐在亞特蘭大這裡大約一半的家庭年收入在2-5萬美元之間他們的收入有29%花在住房上面有32%花在交通上這是2005年的數字是在汽油價格漲到四美元一加侖之前我們中間沒有人真的在意交通費用這筆費用不會下降至少短期內不會 不論你是熱愛郊區綠蔭中的私密空間還是厭惡它千篇一律的商街改造郊區的理由相當充足但是否可行?我認為可行瓊.威廉姆森和我研究這個課題十多年了我們已經找到八十多個不同的項目實際上這些項目都是受市場驅動的驅動市場的主要因素是第一是顯著的人口變化多數人都認為郊區是一個以家庭為中心的地方實際已經不是這樣了從2000年以來郊區三分之二的家庭是沒有孩子的我們只是尚未認識到現實而已這裡面的原因在很大程度上同佔據主要地位的兩個人口群體有關嬰兒潮世代的人正退休中接下來有一個斷層X世代是人數較少的一代他們仍在生育年齡Y世代還尚未開始他們的生育期他們將是人數龐大的一代 因此人口學家預測從現在到2025年75%到85%的新家庭將沒有孩子市場和消費者研究調查嬰兒潮世代和Y世代他們想要什麼想要居住在什麼樣的地方結果顯示未來需求旺盛的是— 我們已經開始觀察到 —郊區居民對城市生活方式的需求嬰兒潮世代想安渡晚年Y世代想往城市生活方式但是他們當中大部份人的工作仍舊在郊區 另外一個巨大的變化有關不盡人意的瀝青的表現我覺得這會是個很棒的獨立搖滾樂隊的名字不過開發商一般用來指使用率不高的停車場在郊區隨處可見戰後在廉價的土地上剛開始建設郊區時遠離市區修地面停車場合情合理但如今這些地方已經被一輪又一輪的郊區擴張超越過去我們的城市不斷擴張這些昔日的遠郊現在已是相對的中心位置土地的價值已經上漲繼續修建地面停車場不再划算合理的做法是在這些場地修建多層建築那麼怎麼樣處理閒置的購物中心﹐或辦公園區?其實處理方法很多在我們今天經濟衰退的時期重新利用是較常見的方法之一 這剛好是聖路易斯市一個閒置的購物中心被重新改造為藝術空間這裡目前駐有藝術工作室戲劇和舞蹈團體雖然這個場所現在稅收收入不如從前但是它服務本地社區能夠繼續發揮作用它正在變成一個不錯的機構其他購物中心有被改造為療養院有的成為大學和其他各種辦公場地我們也看到許多關閉的超級廣場被改造成為各種社區服務機構許多學校﹐和教會還有像這樣的圖書館 這裡以前是一家小雜貨店﹐ 獅子食品雜貨店現在成為公共圖書館除了成功的改造再利用以外他們還拆除掉一些停車位修建了過濾地表徑流污水的設施增加了更多人行道把鄰里聯接起來他們就這樣把過去商街上的一個商店變成了一個社區集會的場所這是亞歷桑那州鳳凰城的一個L形的商街他們僅僅把它用鮮亮的顏色重新粉刷一遍開了一家美食食品店在原來的郵局開了一家餐館決不要低估美食的力量它可以讓一個地方起死回生變成一個令人嚮往的勝地這個改造如此成功﹐他們現在把對街的店鋪也拿下來這一帶的房屋銷售廣告也驕傲的宣稱“步行就可以到‘大桔子美食城’”因為它為周圍社區提供了一個社會學家所稱的“第三空間”如果家是第一空間工作場所是第二空間第三空間就是可以放鬆培養社區關係的地方特別是郊區漸漸的不以家庭為中心、不以家庭為單位民眾更渴求更多的第三空間 所以最徹底的改造其實是下面一種類型就是重新開發在改造的高峰期﹐有很多改造幅度很大的重新開發工程原有的建築被夷為平地﹐整個場地被重建建築物密度大大增加居住區比較集中﹐方便步行另外一些工程則採取循序漸進的方式這是馬什皮村我們找到的最早的改造計畫這個計畫在過去的20年中逐步地在停車場上面打造了都市生活方式黑白照片顯示的是它六十年代時簡陋的商街它上面的地圖顯示出它逐漸的變成一個緊湊的多用途的新英格蘭村落目前它好幾項規劃已經獲得許可這個村落將和新的居住區連接起來跨越主幹道延伸到對面去所以﹐有時改造是循序漸進的有時大刀闊斧 這是另一個停車場改造的工程這是華盛頓特區郊外的一個辦公園區當地鐵將公交線路擴展到郊區並在附近設立了車站業主決定修建一座立體停車場然後在空出的場地增加了一條主街, 數座公寓和分契公寓同時保留現有的辦公大樓這是1940年時的情景那時只不過是一個小農場地處海厄茨維爾村到1980年時它已經被分割成一邊是大型購物中心另一邊是辦公園區中間地帶有圖書館最右邊是教堂今天﹐交通運輸、主街和新的房屋已經完全建成了最終﹐我估計街道將會貫穿整個改造後的購物中心已經有宣佈改造購物中心上面帶花園的公寓的計劃交通是郊區改造的一大驅動力它看起來是這樣差不多可以看到時髦的公寓夾雜在辦公大樓中間還有公共場所和新的主街 這個是我最喜歡的貝爾馬我認為他們建造了一個很吸引人的地方並全部採用了環保的建築方式屋頂上密佈著太陽能電池板還有風力發電葉片這曾經是巨大的購物中心佔地一百英畝的超級街區現在是22個方便步行的城市街區有公共街道兩個公園﹐八條公車路線和各式各樣的房屋類型如此以來﹐科羅拉多的雷克伍德擁有了一個市中心這是這片郊區從來沒有過的這是購物中心的鼎盛時期在這裡舉行高中生舞會. 人們熱愛這購物中心這是1975年時的情景購物中心還在到1995年﹐購物中心關閉了但百貨商店保留了下來我們發現這個現象很常見百貨商店是多層建築﹐ 他們構造更結實很容易改造但那些一層建築早就成為歷史了 這裡顯示的是擴建規劃這個計畫能夠很好地跟現有社區連接起來它可以提供給1500戶家庭更城市化的生活方式現在已經完成了三分之二這是主街的樣子這個工程非常成功它已經促使丹佛市的13個地區性購物中心其中的八個即將計劃進行改造重要的是要知道這種改造不僅僅是推土機把整個城市夷為平地而已而是在收益不高的地產上建設小片可步行的社區這樣提供給大眾更多的選擇而不是剝奪他們的選擇 但是僅僅建設這些分散的方便步行的地方還不夠我們還應該開始更系統的改變我們需要改造交通幹道本身這就是一個在加州改造的工程他們把下面黑白照片中的小商街改造成為一條大道成為他們城鎮的主街它從一個醜陋﹐不安全不受歡迎的地段變成了一個美麗迷人﹐有身價的地段我們希望看到這樣的變化他們已經建好了市政府﹐吸引了兩座飯店我能想像得出漂亮的房屋拔地而起無須砍倒一棵樹這樣好的計畫有很多但我期望更多的交通幹道改造 然而密集化並不適合所有地方有時﹐ 重新綠化是更好的辦法我們可以從成功的“土地存儲”計畫中學到很多比如在密西根州的佛臨特市目前還有正在興起的郊區農業運動有點像二戰時期的勝利菜園與網路結合但重新綠化最重要的方面也許是能夠重建當地生態環境的機會正如明尼愛普樂斯市郊的這個例子當購物中心倒閉後市政府恢復了原來的濕地創造了臨湖的地產由此而吸引了私人投資是這個低收入社區四十年來的第一筆私人投資他們因此得以同時恢復當地生態環境和重建當地經濟這是另一個重新綠化的個例在市場良好的地區同樣適用在西雅圖的這個工程是在一個購物中心的停車場上它緊挨著一個新的交通點這條曲線是一條溪邊小路, 小溪剛被恢復原貌之前它從停車場下面的涵洞流過溪流重新回到地上很大的改善了水質和生存環境 那麼我已經展示給大家一些第一代的改造工程下一步會怎樣?我想未來有三個挑戰第一是改造規劃在都市化的規模上更加系統我們應該能夠更有目標性的決定哪些地方應當重新綠化哪些地方重新開發?哪些地方我們應鼓勵重新居住?幻燈片上的兩個圖像來自一個大型工程顯示了我們在亞特蘭大所作的努力我領導的小組被要求想象亞特蘭大在一百年之後的情形我們選擇逆轉城市擴張通過三個簡單步驟 - 雖然成本高﹐但很簡單第一﹐一百年後在所有主要的鐵路和公路要道上開發連接道路第二﹐一百年後在所有河流廊道設立千呎緩沖帶說起來有點危言聳聽﹐但我們的確面臨水的問題一百年後離水太進的居住區或離交通路線太遠的居住區都無法生存因此我們發明了生態面積轉換法把開發權轉移到交通要道去並重新綠化從前的部份郊區以生產食物和能源 第二個挑戰就是提高郊區改造的建築設計質量我用這個圖像結束我的演講民主行動的場景這是發生在馬裡蘭州銀泉鎮的一次抗議改造工程活動抗議在市中心人造草坪上舉行郊區改造經常被指責為假市中心和即時城市化的例子當然不是沒有原因﹐沒有比人造草坪更假的了我必須承認﹐這些是高度混合的地方他們新落成,卻想看起來很古老他們有著城市街道的佈局卻保留郊區的停車位比例他們的人口比典型的郊區更多元化但比不上城市而且他們是公共場所但由私營公司來管理他們光是外觀像人造草皮一樣就讓我不敢恭維所以我其實很高興城市化在起作用能夠發生抗議這件事本身就意味著街區的佈局﹐ 包括街道和居住區﹐ 公共空間的添加雖然不盡人意但的確是件好事但是我們必須提高建築設計的水準 最後的挑戰，是針對你們的我想要你們一起加入抗議開始要求更能永續發展的郊區空間更加永續發展的空間﹐ 就這麼簡單。但從文化的角度我們傾向與認為市中心應當充滿活力﹐ 我們期待這樣但是我們似乎期望郊區永遠定格在它最初誕生時的少年的形象讓他們長大的時候到了所以我想要你們都來支持區劃變更減少車道, 改善基礎設施還要很快改造你家附近的社區 謝謝
