Talk	en	zh-tw
elora_hardy_magical_houses_made_of_bamboo	"When I was nine years old, my mom asked me what I would want my house to look like, and I drew this fairy mushroom. And then she actually built it. (Laughter) I don't think I realized this was so unusual at the time, and maybe I still haven't, because I'm still designing houses. This is a six-story bespoke home on the island of Bali. It's built almost entirely from bamboo. The living room overlooks the valley from the fourth floor. You enter the house by a bridge. It can get hot in the tropics, so we make big curving roofs to catch the breezes. But some rooms have tall windows to keep the air conditioning in and the bugs out. This room we left open. We made an air-conditioned, tented bed. And one client wanted a TV room in the corner of her living room. Boxing off an area with tall walls just didn't feel right, so instead, we made this giant woven pod. Now, we do have all the necessary luxuries, like bathrooms. This one is a basket in the corner of the living room, and I've got tell you, some people actually hesitate to use it. We have not quite figured out our acoustic insulation. (Laughter) So there are lots of things that we're still working on, but one thing I have learned is that bamboo will treat you well if you use it right. It's actually a wild grass. It grows on otherwise unproductive land — deep ravines, mountainsides. It lives off of rainwater, spring water, sunlight, and of the 1,450 species of bamboo that grow across the world, we use just seven of them. That's my dad. He's the one who got me building with bamboo, and he is standing in a clump of Dendrocalamus asper niger that he planted just seven years ago. Each year, it sends up a new generation of shoots. That shoot, we watched it grow a meter in three days just last week, so we're talking about sustainable timber in three years. Now, we harvest from hundreds of family-owned clumps. Betung, as we call it, it's really long, up to 18 meters of usable length. Try getting that truck down the mountain. And it's strong: it has the tensile strength of steel, the compressive strength of concrete. Slam four tons straight down on a pole, and it can take it. Because it's hollow, it's lightweight, light enough to be lifted by just a few men, or, apparently, one woman. (Laughter) (Applause) And when my father built Green School in Bali, he chose bamboo for all of the buildings on campus, because he saw it as a promise. It's a promise to the kids. It's one sustainable material that they will not run out of. And when I first saw these structures under construction about six years ago, I just thought, this makes perfect sense. It is growing all around us. It's strong. It's elegant. It's earthquake-resistant. Why hasn't this happened sooner, and what can we do with it next? So along with some of the original builders of Green School, I founded Ibuku. Ibu means ""mother,"" and ku means ""mine,"" so it represents my Mother Earth, and at Ibuku, we are a team of artisans, architects and designers, and what we're doing together is creating a new way of building. Over the past five years together, we have built over 50 unique structures, most of them in Bali. Nine of them are at Green Village — you've just seen inside some of these homes — and we fill them with bespoke furniture, we surround them with veggie gardens, we would love to invite you all to come visit someday. And while you're there, you can also see Green School — we keep building classrooms there each year — as well as an updated fairy mushroom house. We're also working on a little house for export. This is a traditional Sumbanese home that we replicated, right down to the details and textiles. A restaurant with an open-air kitchen. It looks a lot like a kitchen, right? And a bridge that spans 22 meters across a river. Now, what we're doing, it's not entirely new. From little huts to elaborate bridges like this one in Java, bamboo has been in use across the tropical regions of the world for literally tens of thousands of years. There are islands and even continents that were first reached by bamboo rafts. But until recently, it was almost impossible to reliably protect bamboo from insects, and so, just about everything that was ever built out of bamboo is gone. Unprotected bamboo weathers. Untreated bamboo gets eaten to dust. And so that's why most people, especially in Asia, think that you couldn't be poor enough or rural enough to actually want to live in a bamboo house. And so we thought, what will it take to change their minds, to convince people that bamboo is worth building with, much less worth aspiring to? First, we needed safe treatment solutions. Borax is a natural salt. It turns bamboo into a viable building material. Treat it properly, design it carefully, and a bamboo structure can last a lifetime. Second, build something extraordinary out of it. Inspire people. Fortunately, Balinese culture fosters craftsmanship. It values the artisan. So combine those with the adventurous outliers from new generations of locally trained architects and designers and engineers, and always remember that you are designing for curving, tapering, hollow poles. No two poles alike, no straight lines, no two-by-fours here. The tried-and-true, well-crafted formulas and vocabulary of architecture do not apply here. We have had to invent our own rules. We ask the bamboo what it's good at, what it wants to become, and what it says is: respect it, design for its strengths, protect it from water, and to make the most of its curves. So we design in real 3D, making scale structural models out of the same material that we'll later use to build the house. And bamboo model-making, it's an art, as well as some hardcore engineering. So that's the blueprint of the house. (Laughter) And we bring it to site, and with tiny rulers, we measure each pole, and consider each curve, and we choose a piece of bamboo from the pile to replicate that house on site. When it comes down to the details, we consider everything. Why are doors so often rectangular? Why not round? How could you make a door better? Well, its hinges battle with gravity, and gravity will always win in the end, so why not have it pivot on the center where it can stay balanced? And while you're at it, why not doors shaped like teardrops? To reap the selective benefits and work within the constraints of this material, we have really had to push ourselves, and within that constraint, we have found space for something new. It's a challenge: how do you make a ceiling if you don't have any flat boards to work with? Let me tell you, sometimes I dream of sheet rock and plywood. (Laughter) But if what you've got is skilled craftsmen and itsy bitsy little splits, weave that ceiling together, stretch a canvas over it, lacquer it. How do you design durable kitchen countertops that do justice to this curving structure you've just built? Slice up a boulder like a loaf of bread, hand-carve each to fit the other, leave the crusts on, and what we're doing, it is almost entirely handmade. The structural connections of our buildings are reinforced by steel joints, but we use a lot of hand-whittled bamboo pins. There are thousands of pins in each floor. This floor is made of glossy and durable bamboo skin. You can feel the texture under bare feet. And the floor that you walk on, can it affect the way that you walk? Can it change the footprint that you'll ultimately leave on the world? I remember being nine years old and feeling wonder, and possibility, and a little bit of idealism. And we've got a really long way to go, there's a lot left to learn, but one thing I know is that with creativity and commitment, you can create beauty and comfort and safety and even luxury out of a material that will grow back. Thank you. (Applause)"	在我九歲那年，我媽媽問我將來想要什麼樣的房子，我畫了這個童話般的蘑菇屋。而她真的蓋了這樣的房子。（笑聲） 我想我當時沒發現這個有多特別，也許我依然還沒完全理解，因為我現在仍不斷在設計房屋，這是一棟在峇里島六層樓訂製的房子。它幾乎完全是用竹子打造而成。客廳位於四樓，可以鳥瞰山谷。房子的入口是一座橋。熱帶地區通常很熱，所以我們製造出巨大的曲簷讓風進入房子。有些房間有高高的窗戶可讓空氣流通，同時隔絕蚊蟲。這房間是開放的。我們做了一個可以讓空氣流通的帳篷床。還有一位客戶想要在客廳的角落做一間電視房。把一個區域用高牆隔成許多小房間蠻奇怪的，所以我們做了這個巨大的竹編隔間。 還做了所有必要的設施，例如浴室。這是客廳角落的籃子，我得告訴你們，有些人不願意住這種房子。我們還沒有解決隔音問題。（笑聲）所以我們還在努力解決一些問題，不過我學會一件事就是，如果正確使用，竹子也會善待你。 竹子實際上是一種野草。它生長在貧瘠的土地上：深谷裡，山坡上。它靠雨水、泉水、陽光生長，全世界有 1,450 種竹子，我們只使用其中 7 種。 這是我父親。他就是那個影響我、讓我用竹子建造房子的人，他正站在一叢馬來甜龍竹林裡，那是他七年前種的。每年，它都長出全新的竹筍。這竹筍，上週我們看到它三天內長高一公尺，所以三年內這些竹子就能成為可用的建材。 現在我們從數百家自有的竹林取得建材。我們叫它勿洞竹，它相當長，可用部分長達 18 公尺。我們試圖用貨車把它載下山去。它很堅固，有鋼鐵般的抗拉强度，抗壓强度與水泥相同。以四噸重的力道直接沖擊一根竹子，它也能夠承受。因爲它是空心的，重量輕，輕到幾個男人就能擡起來，或者，顯而易見，一個女人就能擡起來。 （笑聲）（掌聲） 當我的父親在巴里島建造「綠色學校」時，他選用竹子作爲建造校園的建材，因爲他把它看成是一個承諾。一個對孩子們許下的諾言。竹子是一種可持續使用的材料，不會用完。當我六年前第一次看見這些建造中的結構時，我就明白這完全可行。竹子無處不在。它很結實，又很優雅。它還能抗震。爲什麽沒有早一點用竹子建房屋，下一步要怎麼做？ 於是我和當初的綠色學校建造者成立 Ibuku。Ibu 是「母親」，ku 是「我的」 的意思，意即大地母親，在 Ibuku，我們是工匠、建築師和設計師的團隊，一起創造一個全新的建造方式。在過去的五年裡，我們建造超過五十棟獨特的建築，大部分是在峇里島。其中九座在「綠色村莊」──你們剛剛看到的是房屋内部的照片──裡面放置訂製的家具，房屋四周設置蔬菜花園，我們誠摯邀請各位將來有機會來參觀。當你到那裡，你也可以看到綠色學校，我們每年持續不斷地搭建教室，還蓋了升級版的童話蘑菇屋。 我們也建造一種專供出口的房子。這是我們建造的傳統松巴屋，細節和紋路都很精緻的複製房屋。開放式厨房的餐廳。看起來像厨房，對吧？還建了一座橫跨江面的橋，有 22 公尺長。 我們所做的並不完全是新東西。從小房子到複雜的橋梁，就像爪哇的這座橋，竹子普遍使用於熱帶地區。至今已有千萬年之久。有些島嶼甚至還有大陸是人們乘坐竹筏發現的。但直到最近，人們幾乎無法找到有效的竹材防蟲方法，因此，以竹子做的東西已不存在。竹子沒有被保護經風吹日曬受風化。未經處理的竹材被腐蝕成為塵土。這就是為什麼大部分的人，尤其是亞洲人，即使很窮或是在很鄉下的地方，也沒人願意住在竹子建造的房子。 所以我們想，要如何改變人們的想法，說服大家實際將竹子用在建築，而不只是想？ 首先，我們要有安全的防蟲方式。硼砂是一種天然的鹽。它能將竹子加工成可用的建材。正確的處理方法，仔細地設計，竹造建築可用一輩子。 第二，用竹子建造特別的房子。去啟發人們。幸運的是，峇里人扶植手工藝文化。工匠受到尊重。因此要結合出類拔萃、有創意、當地新生代的建築師、設計師和工程師，並記住你要設計的是彎曲、尖細、空心的竹子。沒有兩根是一樣的，沒有直線條，這裡沒有方正的木材。經驗法則、精心設計的公式和建築術語，這裡通通不適用。我們要建立自己的規則。我們問竹子它們能做什麼，想要做什麼，它的回答是：尊重它們，將它們的優點設計出來，做好防水，運用它們的曲線特性。 所以我們用真的三度空間設計，依比例製作結構模型，模型的材質與實際建築物相同。而製作竹子模型也是一門藝術，也是工程的核心部分。 這是房子的藍圖。 （笑聲） 我們將它帶到工地現場，用小的尺量測每一根竹子，考量每一個曲線，選擇適當的竹材在現場將房子複製出來。 在細節部分，我們考慮的面面俱到。為何門非得方形不可？可以是圓的嗎？要怎麼做才能把門做得更好？它的樞軸往往得和重力抗衡，最後總是重力贏。為什麼不把樞軸設置在中間使它保持平衡的狀態？當你做出圓形門，為何不能有水滴形的門？ 為了獲得精心設計的好處以及在材質性能的限制下，我們必須往前邁進，在材料的限制下，不斷創新。這是一項挑戰：在沒有平坦板子的情況下要如何蓋屋頂？讓我來告訴各位，有時我會夢到石膏板和夾板。（笑聲）如果你有技巧精湛的工匠和小巧玲瓏的竹片，就可以用它來編成屋頂，上面鋪上帆布，上油漆。要如何設計耐用的櫥房檯面，對它做適當的處理可與這曲面的建築相對應？將大石頭像麵包一樣切片，手工打造使它們互相契合，保留硬的表面，我們所做的房子，幾乎都是以手工完成。建築物的結構連接是以鋼製接頭加強固定，也採用大量手工製的竹栓。每一層樓使用數千片竹栓。地板是以光滑耐用的竹皮製成。光腳就可以感覺得到材質。 走在這地板上，是否能影響你走路的方式？你生活在這世界的足跡是否因此而改變？我記得九歲的時候充滿好奇心，覺得事情皆有其可能性，還有一點點完美主義。我們還有很長的路要走，還有很多事要學習，但我了解有創造力和執行力，就能創造美好、舒適、安全，甚至是奢華的生活，只要使用竹子這種取之不盡的材料就可以了。謝謝。 （掌聲）
