Talk	en	zh-tw
elyn_saks_seeing_mental_illness	"So I'm a woman with chronic schizophrenia. I've spent hundreds of days in psychiatric hospitals. I might have ended up spending most of my life on the back ward of a hospital, but that isn't how my life turned out. In fact, I've managed to stay clear of hospitals for almost three decades, perhaps my proudest accomplishment. That's not to say that I've remained clear of all psychiatric struggles. After I graduated from the Yale Law School and got my first law job, my New Haven analyst, Dr. White, announced to me that he was going to close his practice in three months, several years before I had planned to leave New Haven. White had been enormously helpful to me, and the thought of his leaving shattered me. My best friend Steve, sensing that something was terribly wrong, flew out to New Haven to be with me. Now I'm going to quote from some of my writings: ""I opened the door to my studio apartment. Steve would later tell me that, for all the times he had seen me psychotic, nothing could have prepared him for what he saw that day. For a week or more, I had barely eaten. I was gaunt. I walked as though my legs were wooden. My face looked and felt like a mask. I had closed all the curtains in the apartment, so in the middle of the day the apartment was in near total darkness. The air was fetid, the room a shambles. Steve, both a lawyer and a psychologist, has treated many patients with severe mental illness, and to this day he'll say I was as bad as any he had ever seen. 'Hi,' I said, and then I returned to the couch, where I sat in silence for several moments. 'Thank you for coming, Steve. Crumbling world, word, voice. Tell the clocks to stop. Time is. Time has come.' 'White is leaving,' Steve said somberly. 'I'm being pushed into a grave. The situation is grave,' I moan. 'Gravity is pulling me down. I'm scared. Tell them to get away.'"" As a young woman, I was in a psychiatric hospital on three different occasions for lengthy periods. My doctors diagnosed me with chronic schizophrenia, and gave me a prognosis of ""grave."" That is, at best, I was expected to live in a board and care, and work at menial jobs. Fortunately, I did not actually enact that grave prognosis. Instead, I'm a chaired Professor of Law, Psychology and Psychiatry at the USC Gould School of Law, I have many close friends and I have a beloved husband, Will, who's here with us today. (Applause) Thank you. He's definitely the star of my show. I'd like to share with you how that happened, and also describe my experience of being psychotic. I hasten to add that it's my experience, because everyone becomes psychotic in his or her own way. Let's start with the definition of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a brain disease. Its defining feature is psychosis, or being out of touch with reality. Delusions and hallucinations are hallmarks of the illness. Delusions are fixed and false beliefs that aren't responsive to evidence, and hallucinations are false sensory experiences. For example, when I'm psychotic I often have the delusion that I've killed hundreds of thousands of people with my thoughts. I sometimes have the idea that nuclear explosions are about to be set off in my brain. Occasionally, I have hallucinations, like one time I turned around and saw a man with a raised knife. Imagine having a nightmare while you're awake. Often, speech and thinking become disorganized to the point of incoherence. Loose associations involves putting together words that may sound a lot alike but don't make sense, and if the words get jumbled up enough, it's called ""word salad."" Contrary to what many people think, schizophrenia is not the same as multiple personality disorder or split personality. The schizophrenic mind is not split, but shattered. Everyone has seen a street person, unkempt, probably ill-fed, standing outside of an office building muttering to himself or shouting. This person is likely to have some form of schizophrenia. But schizophrenia presents itself across a wide array of socioeconomic status, and there are people with the illness who are full-time professionals with major responsibilities. Several years ago, I decided to write down my experiences and my personal journey, and I want to share some more of that story with you today to convey the inside view. So the following episode happened the seventh week of my first semester of my first year at Yale Law School. Quoting from my writings: ""My two classmates, Rebel and Val, and I had made the date to meet in the law school library on Friday night to work on our memo assignment together. But we didn't get far before I was talking in ways that made no sense. 'Memos are visitations,' I informed them. 'They make certain points. The point is on your head. Pat used to say that. Have you killed you anyone?' Rebel and Val looked at me as if they or I had been splashed in the face with cold water. 'What are you talking about, Elyn?' 'Oh, you know, the usual. Who's what, what's who, heaven and hell. Let's go out on the roof. It's a flat surface. It's safe.' Rebel and Val followed and they asked what had gotten into me. 'This is the real me,' I announced, waving my arms above my head. And then, late on a Friday night, on the roof of the Yale Law School, I began to sing, and not quietly either. 'Come to the Florida sunshine bush. Do you want to dance?' 'Are you on drugs?' one asked. 'Are you high?' 'High? Me? No way, no drugs. Come to the Florida sunshine bush, where there are lemons, where they make demons.' 'You're frightening me,' one of them said, and Rebel and Val headed back into the library. I shrugged and followed them. Back inside, I asked my classmates if they were having the same experience of words jumping around our cases as I was. 'I think someone's infiltrated my copies of the cases,' I said. 'We've got to case the joint. I don't believe in joints, but they do hold your body together.'"" — It's an example of loose associations. — ""Eventually I made my way back to my dorm room, and once there, I couldn't settle down. My head was too full of noise, too full of orange trees and law memos I could not write and mass murders I knew I would be responsible for. Sitting on my bed, I rocked back and forth, moaning in fear and isolation."" This episode led to my first hospitalization in America. I had two earlier in England. Continuing with the writings: ""The next morning I went to my professor's office to ask for an extension on the memo assignment, and I began gibbering unintelligably as I had the night before, and he eventually brought me to the emergency room. Once there, someone I'll just call 'The Doctor' and his whole team of goons swooped down, lifted me high into the air, and slammed me down on a metal bed with such force that I saw stars. Then they strapped my legs and arms to the metal bed with thick leather straps. A sound came out of my mouth that I'd never heard before: half groan, half scream, barely human and pure terror. Then the sound came again, forced from somewhere deep inside my belly and scraping my throat raw."" This incident resulted in my involuntary hospitalization. One of the reasons the doctors gave for hospitalizing me against my will was that I was ""gravely disabled."" To support this view, they wrote in my chart that I was unable to do my Yale Law School homework. I wondered what that meant about much of the rest of New Haven. (Laughter) During the next year, I would spend five months in a psychiatric hospital. At times, I spent up to 20 hours in mechanical restraints, arms tied, arms and legs tied down, arms and legs tied down with a net tied tightly across my chest. I never struck anyone. I never harmed anyone. I never made any direct threats. If you've never been restrained yourself, you may have a benign image of the experience. There's nothing benign about it. Every week in the United States, it's been estimated that one to three people die in restraints. They strangle, they aspirate their vomit, they suffocate, they have a heart attack. It's unclear whether using mechanical restraints is actually saving lives or costing lives. While I was preparing to write my student note for the Yale Law Journal on mechanical restraints, I consulted an eminent law professor who was also a psychiatrist, and said surely he would agree that restraints must be degrading, painful and frightening. He looked at me in a knowing way, and said, ""Elyn, you don't really understand: These people are psychotic. They're different from me and you. They wouldn't experience restraints as we would."" I didn't have the courage to tell him in that moment that, no, we're not that different from him. We don't like to be strapped down to a bed and left to suffer for hours any more than he would. In fact, until very recently, and I'm sure some people still hold it as a view, that restraints help psychiatric patients feel safe. I've never met a psychiatric patient who agreed with that view. Today, I'd like to say I'm very pro-psychiatry but very anti-force. I don't think force is effective as treatment, and I think using force is a terrible thing to do to another person with a terrible illness. Eventually, I came to Los Angeles to teach at the University of Southern California Law School. For years, I had resisted medication, making many, many efforts to get off. I felt that if I could manage without medication, I could prove that, after all, I wasn't really mentally ill, it was some terrible mistake. My motto was the less medicine, the less defective. My L.A. analyst, Dr. Kaplan, was urging me just to stay on medication and get on with my life, but I decided I wanted to make one last college try to get off. Quoting from the text: ""I started the reduction of my meds, and within a short time I began feeling the effects. After returning from a trip to Oxford, I marched into Kaplan's office, headed straight for the corner, crouched down, covered my face, and began shaking. All around me I sensed evil beings poised with daggers. They'd slice me up in thin slices or make me swallow hot coals. Kaplan would later describe me as 'writhing in agony.' Even in this state, what he accurately described as acutely and forwardly psychotic, I refused to take more medication. The mission is not yet complete. Immediately after the appointment with Kaplan, I went to see Dr. Marder, a schizophrenia expert who was following me for medication side effects. He was under the impression that I had a mild psychotic illness. Once in his office, I sat on his couch, folded over, and began muttering. 'Head explosions and people trying to kill. Is it okay if I totally trash your office?' 'You need to leave if you think you're going to do that,' said Marder. 'Okay. Small. Fire on ice. Tell them not to kill me. Tell them not to kill me. What have I done wrong? Hundreds of thousands with thoughts, interdiction.' 'Elyn, do you feel like you're dangerous to yourself or others? I think you need to be in the hospital. I could get you admitted right away, and the whole thing could be very discrete.' 'Ha, ha, ha. You're offering to put me in hospitals? Hospitals are bad, they're mad, they're sad. One must stay away. I'm God, or I used to be.'"" At that point in the text, where I said ""I'm God, or I used to be,"" my husband made a marginal note. He said, ""Did you quit or were you fired?"" (Laughter) ""'I give life and I take it away. Forgive me, for I know not what I do.' Eventually, I broke down in front of friends, and everybody convinced me to take more medication. I could no longer deny the truth, and I could not change it. The wall that kept me, Elyn, Professor Saks, separate from that insane woman hospitalized years past, lay smashed and in ruins."" Everything about this illness says I shouldn't be here, but I am. And I am, I think, for three reasons: First, I've had excellent treatment. Four- to five-day-a-week psychoanalytic psychotherapy for decades and continuing, and excellent psychopharmacology. Second, I have many close family members and friends who know me and know my illness. These relationships have given my life a meaning and a depth, and they also helped me navigate my life in the face of symptoms. Third, I work at an enormously supportive workplace at USC Law School. This is a place that not only accommodates my needs but actually embraces them. It's also a very intellectually stimulating place, and occupying my mind with complex problems has been my best and most powerful and most reliable defense against my mental illness. Even with all that — excellent treatment, wonderful family and friends, supportive work environment — I did not make my illness public until relatively late in life, and that's because the stigma against mental illness is so powerful that I didn't feel safe with people knowing. If you hear nothing else today, please hear this: There are not ""schizophrenics."" There are people with schizophrenia, and these people may be your spouse, they may be your child, they may be your neighbor, they may be your friend, they may be your coworker. So let me share some final thoughts. We need to invest more resources into research and treatment of mental illness. The better we understand these illnesses, the better the treatments we can provide, and the better the treatments we can provide, the more we can offer people care, and not have to use force. Also, we must stop criminalizing mental illness. It's a national tragedy and scandal that the L.A. County Jail is the biggest psychiatric facility in the United States. American prisons and jails are filled with people who suffer from severe mental illness, and many of them are there because they never received adequate treatment. I could have easily ended up there or on the streets myself. A message to the entertainment industry and to the press: On the whole, you've done a wonderful job fighting stigma and prejudice of many kinds. Please, continue to let us see characters in your movies, your plays, your columns, who suffer with severe mental illness. Portray them sympathetically, and portray them in all the richness and depth of their experience as people and not as diagnoses. Recently, a friend posed a question: If there were a pill I could take that would instantly cure me, would I take it? The poet Rainer Maria Rilke was offered psychoanalysis. He declined, saying, ""Don't take my devils away, because my angels may flee too."" My psychosis, on the other hand, is a waking nightmare in which my devils are so terrifying that all my angels have already fled. So would I take the pill? In an instant. That said, I don't wish to be seen as regretting the life I could have had if I'd not been mentally ill, nor am I asking anyone for their pity. What I rather wish to say is that the humanity we all share is more important than the mental illness we may not. What those of us who suffer with mental illness want is what everybody wants: in the words of Sigmund Freud, ""to work and to love."" Thank you. (Applause) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. You're very kind. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	我是一位患有慢性思覺失調症的女性。我曾有數百天待在精神病院裡，我即可能大半輩子會待在醫院的後病房裡，但我的生活並沒有變成那樣。事實上，我成功地避開醫院已將近三十年了，這也許是我最自豪的成就。這並不是說我已全然擺脫所有與精神病的困鬥。我從耶魯法學院畢業後得到我的第一份法律工作，我的紐哈芬分析師懷特博士告訴我他即將在三個月之內，關閉他的事務所，這離我計畫離開紐哈芬早了幾年。懷特博士給我莫大的幫助，想到他的離去，粉碎了我。 我最好的朋友史提夫察覺某事極不對勁，飛來紐哈芬陪我。現在我要引用一些我寫的東西：「我打開我公寓套房的門，史提夫後來告訴我，在他所看過我發病的時候，沒有一次能預備他那天所見的狀況。約莫一個禮拜或更久，我幾乎沒有進食。我枯瘦憔悴，走路時雙腿像木頭一樣，我的臉看起來、感覺起來都像一張面具。我拉上公寓所有的窗簾，所以日正當中時公寓裡幾乎是全然的黑暗。空氣惡臭，房間一團亂。史提夫是律師也是心理學家，曾治療許多患有精神重症的病患，至今，他還是會說我是他看過最嚴重的。『嗨！』我說，然後回到長沙發上，我坐在那裡不發一語好一陣子。『 謝謝你來，史提夫。崩解的世界、文字、聲音。叫時鐘停頓。時間是。時候到了。』『 懷特要離開了 』，史提夫悶悶地說。我悲嘆：『 我正被推進墳墓，這情況就如墳墓。』『 重力把我拉下去，我害怕，叫他們走開。』」 年輕時，我曾因三個不同情況在精神病院待了頗長的時間。我的醫師診斷我患有慢性思覺失調症，且預後嚴重。也就是說：我頂多是預計住在護理機構做一些卑微的工作。幸運地，我實際上並沒有讓嚴重的病情發生。取而代之的，我是法學、心理學與精神病學首席教授，任職於南加大古爾德法學院。我有很多親近的好朋友，還有心愛的先生威爾，他今天也在現場。 （掌聲）謝謝。他絕對是我生命中的要角。 我想跟你們分享那歷程，並且描述我患病的經歷。我先說，那是我個人的經歷，因為每個人轉變成病患的狀況不同。 讓我們從思覺失調症的定義開始。思覺失調症是一種腦部疾病其決定性特徵是精神失常，或與現實脫節。妄想和幻覺，都是這疾病的特徵。妄想是牢固且不真實的信念，與證據不符，而幻覺則是不真實的感知經驗。舉例來說，當發病時我常妄想，我以意念已殺了數十萬人。有時候我認為核爆即將在我腦袋中引發。偶爾，我有幻覺，例如有次我回頭看到一個男人高舉著刀。想像在你醒著時做惡夢， 通常，說話與思維變得雜亂無章到了語無倫次的程度。不確切的聯想包含將聽起來很像的詞語組合起來，但並無意義。如果字詞夠紊亂，那稱為「語詞沙拉」。思覺失調症並非許多人想的多重人格或人格分裂，病患的心智不是分裂的，而是粉碎的。 大家都見過街頭遊民，蓬頭垢面，可能營養不良，站在辦公大樓外自言自語或大吼大叫，那人可能患有某種思覺失調症。但思覺失調症患者存在各個社會經濟階層，有些病患是全職、擔負重要職責的專業人士。數年前，我決定記錄下我的經驗和個人歷程，我今天想跟大家多分享一些故事來傳遞病情的內觀。 接下來這段發生在耶魯法學院，我第一年、第一學期的第七週。引用我的札記：「我和兩位同學──瑞貝爾和薇爾相約，週五晚上到法學院圖書館碰面一起做我們的法律備忘錄作業，但我們有任何進展前，我開始語無倫次。 我告訴他們：『備忘錄就是訪視，他們建立某些論點，重點在你的腦袋，派特曾說過，你殺過人嗎？』瑞貝爾和薇爾盯著我就像他們或我臉上被潑了冷水，『艾琳，妳在說什麼？』『噢，你知道，如常，誰是什麼，什麼是誰，天堂、地獄。去屋頂吧，那表面是平的、安全的。』瑞貝爾和薇爾跟著我他們問我怎麼了，我說：『這是真正的我』，我舉手過頭揮舞著。然後在週五的深夜，耶魯法學院的屋頂上，我開始大聲地唱歌，『來佛羅里達的陽光灌木叢，你要跳舞嗎？』有人問：『妳嗑藥了嗎？在嗨嗎？』『嗨？我？不可能，沒嗑藥，來佛羅里達的陽光灌木叢，那裡有檸檬，他們在那裡製造魔鬼。』其中一人說：『妳嚇到我了』，瑞貝爾和薇爾往圖書館去，我聳聳肩，跟著他們。 回到圖書館內，我問同學是否也見案件字跳來跳去，就像我一樣。『我認為有人潛入了我這份案件，我們得把那關節裝箱，我不相信關節，但他們確把身體連接起來。』這是一個散漫聯想的實例。「我終於回到宿舍房間，但我無法安穩下來，我的腦袋充滿了噪音，充滿了柳橙樹和寫不出的法律備忘錄，還有因我而有的大屠殺。我坐在床上前後搖著，在恐懼和孤立裡呻吟。」這導致我第一次在美國住院治療，之前在英國有兩次。 繼續我的札記：「隔日早上我到教授辦公室要求延繳備忘錄作業，我開始語無倫次就像前晚一樣，最後他送我到急診室，到了那，有個人，就稱他『那個醫生』與他整隊暴徒猛撲過來，把我高舉在空中，重摔到金屬床上，力量之大到讓我眼冒金星。然後用厚厚的皮帶，把我手腳綁在床上。嘴裡冒出我從未聽過的聲音，半呻吟、半尖叫、幾乎沒人性、純粹的驚駭。然後那聲音又來了，從我腹腔深處強力湧上刮得我喉嚨都破了。」這導致我非自願的住院治療，違我意住院，醫生的理由之一是因為我是「嚴重殘疾」。為了支持這說法，我病歷上寫著無法完成耶魯法學院作業。我不知這對大數紐哈芬人意味著什麼。（笑聲） 後來的一年間，我在精神病院待了五個月。有時，被機械束縛多達 20 小時，手臂被綁著、手和腿都被束縛，被網子綁著手腳在我胸前緊緊地交錯。我從未攻擊任何人，從未傷害任何人，從未直接威脅人，若你未曾被綑綁過，你對這經歷的想像可能是良性的，這一點都不良性。 在美國，每週預期有 1-3 人死於束縛，他們被勒著，他們吐出嘔吐物，他們窒息，他們心臟病發。不明確的是，使用機械縛具實際上是救命還是害命。當我正準備為耶魯法律期刊撰寫有關機械縛具學生筆記，我詢問了一位著名法學教授，他也是一位精神科醫師，他說，他當然同意束縛一定是有辱人格、痛苦且恐懼的。他以理解的方式看著我說：「艾琳，妳並不真的了解這些人精神失常，他們和你我不同，他們對束縛的感受不同與我們。」當時我沒有勇氣告訴他，不，我們和他沒什麼不同，我們不比他喜歡被綁在床上痛苦好幾個小時。事實上，直到最近，我確信仍有些人抱持這看法，束縛可讓精神病患感到安全。我從未遇過哪個精神病患會同意這個看法。今天，我很贊成精神病治療但我很反暴力。我不認為暴力是有效的療法，我認為對有可怕疾病的人施暴很糟糕。 後來，我來到洛杉磯南加大法學院教學。我抗拒服藥數年，花了許多許多的努力做到，我覺得如果我可不吃藥來控制，我最終可以證明我不是真有精神病，那是個可怕的錯誤。我的座右銘是少吃藥就少缺陷。我洛杉磯的分析師卡普蘭博士力勸我持續服藥、享受生活，但我決定再試最後一次戒藥。從文中引用：「我開始減少用藥，在短時間內我開始感受到效果，牛津之行後，我走進卡普蘭的辦公室，直接走到角落蜷伏下來，掩面且開始顫抖， 感覺惡靈拿著匕首，圍繞著我，他們會把我削成薄片或要我吞熱煤炭。卡普蘭後來描述我『痛苦地扭動』，即使在這狀態下，他準確描述了急性且加重的精神失常。我拒絕再吃更多的藥，這任務尚未達成。 與卡普蘭會面後，我去見思覺失調症專家馬德醫師，他在追蹤我藥物的副作用，他印象中我有輕微的精神失常。在他辦公室裡，我折身坐在沙發上，開始喃喃自語：『頭爆炸了，人們想殺人。我可以徹底毀了這辦公室嗎？』馬德說：『如果妳想這樣，妳必須要離開。』『好，小小，火在冰上，告訴他們不要殺我，告訴他們不要殺我，我做錯了什麼？千百個想法，制止。』『艾琳，妳覺得妳對危害自己或他人嗎？我認為妳需要進醫院，我可以馬上幫妳辦入院，而整件事可以是很謹慎的。』『哈，哈，哈，你要讓我進醫院？醫院不好，他們是瘋狂的、悲哀的，人們必須遠離，我是上帝，或我曾經是。』在文中此處，當我說：『我是上帝，或我曾經是，』我丈夫做了旁注，他寫說：『妳辭職或是被解雇了？』（笑聲）『我賜予生命又將其帶走，原諒我，因我不知在做什麼。』」 終於，我在朋友面前崩潰了，每人都說服我多吃點藥，我不能再抗拒這個事實而且我無法改變它。那道隔離我，艾琳．薩克斯教授和曾是精神病院瘋女人的牆，碎倒而成一片廢墟。」 這病情都表明我不該在這，但我是在這，我想，有三個原因：第一，我接受了極佳的治療。數十年且持續中，每週 4-5 天的精神分析心理治療，和卓越的精神藥物。第二，我有許多了解我、知道我疾病的親近家人和朋友。這些關係給予我生命意義、深度，他們也幫助我面臨症狀時指引我人生方向。第三，南加大法學院的工作環境，很具強大支持性。這裡不僅遷就我的需求，且事實上是接納了它們。這也是個非常激發智力的地方，用複雜的問題占據我的心智，是對抗我的精神病最佳、最有力且最可靠的防禦。 即使如此，優良的醫療、很棒的家人及朋友、支持的工作環境，我之前並沒有公開我的疾病直到較晚的時候，因為精神病的污名如此強大，讓人知道使我感到不安全。如果你今天許多內容都沒聽進去，那請聽聽這個：沒有精神分裂的人，是人患有思覺失調症，這些人可能是你的配偶、你的孩子、你的鄰居、你的朋友、你的同事。 讓我分享一些最後的想法，我們在精神病的研究和治療上，需要投注更多的資源。我們越了解這些疾病，我們越能提供更好的治療，提供越好的治療，才能給予不施暴、更好的照護。還有，必須停止精神病罪惡化，洛杉磯郡監獄是美國最大的心理醫療機構，全國的悲劇與恥辱。美國監獄和拘留所充滿著受嚴重精神病折磨的人，多數人是因從未獲得妥適治療。我也可能在那落腳或流落街頭。一個給娛樂事業與媒體的訊息：整體上，你們於多面的汙名和歧視對抗做得很好。請繼續讓我們在你們的電影、戲劇、專欄裡看見受嚴重精神疾病折磨的人物。富同情心地描繪他們，將他們豐富有深度的經歷如常人般描繪，而非病患。 最近，一個朋友問：如果有一種藥丸我可以服用，立即治癒我，我會吃嗎？詩人里爾克被提供心理分析時，他拒絕了，說：「別帶走我的魔鬼，因我也可能失去我的天使。」相反的，我的精神失常，是醒著的夢魘，有可怕的魔鬼嚇走我的天使。我願意吃那藥丸嗎？我會立刻吞下去。雖說如此，我不希望被視為因精神病而對生命感到遺憾，也不渴求任何人的憐憫，我比較想說，共有的人性比不是人人共有的精神病更重要。受精神病折磨之苦的人要的和每個人一樣：引用佛洛伊德：「去工作、去愛」 謝謝。（掌聲） （掌聲） 謝謝，謝謝你們，你們真好。（掌聲） 謝謝。（掌聲）
