Talk	en	zh-tw
eman_mohammed_the_courage_to_tell_a_hidden_story	"When I turned 19, I started my career as the first female photojournalist in the Gaza Strip, Palestine. My work as a woman photographer was considered a serious insult to local traditions, and created a lasting stigma for me and my family. The male-dominated field made my presence unwelcome by all possible means. They made clear that a woman must not do a man's job. Photo agencies in Gaza refused to train me because of my gender. The ""No"" sign was pretty clear. Three of my colleagues went as far as to drive me to an open air strike area where the explosion sounds were the only thing I could hear. Dust was flying in the air, and the ground was shaking like a swing beneath me. I only realized we weren't there to document the event when the three of them got back into the armored Jeep and drove away, waving and laughing, leaving me behind in the open air strike zone. For a moment, I felt terrified, humiliated, and sorry for myself. My colleagues' action was not the only death threat I have received, but it was the most dangerous one. The perception of women's life in Gaza is passive. Until a recent time, a lot of  women were not allowed to work or pursue education. At times of such doubled war including both social restrictions on women and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, women's dark and bright stories were fading away. To men, women's stories were seen as inconsequential. I started paying closer attention to women's lives in Gaza. Because of my gender, I had access to worlds where my colleagues were forbidden. Beyond the obvious pain and struggle, there was a healthy dose of laughter and accomplishments. In front of a police compound in Gaza City during the first war in Gaza, an Israeli air raid managed to destroy the compound and break my nose. For a moment, all I saw was white, bright white, like these lights. I thought to myself I either got blind or I was in heaven. By the time I managed to open my eyes, I had documented this moment. Mohammed Khader, a Palestinian worker who spent two decades in Israel, as his retirement plan, he decided to build a four-floor house, only by the first field operation at his neighborhood, the house was flattened to the ground. Nothing was left but the pigeons he raised and a jacuzzi, a bathtub that he got from Tel Aviv. Mohammed got the bathtub on the top of the rubble and started giving his kids an every morning bubble bath. My work is not meant to hide the scars of war, but to show the full frame of unseen stories of Gazans. As a Palestinian female photographer, the journey of struggle, survival and everyday life has inspired me to overcome the community taboo and see a different side of war and its aftermath. I became a witness with a choice: to run away or stand still. Thank you. (Applause)"	我滿 19 歲的時候，開始了第一份工作，也就是巴勒斯坦加薩走廊首位女性攝影記者。職業女攝影記者的身分對當地傳統來說極為冒犯，也替我和家人蒙上永遠的恥辱。這個男性主導的領域讓我的存在一點都不受歡迎。他們清楚表明，女人就是不該做男人的工作。加薩的攝影社都拒絕訓練我，就因為我是女性。「不」這個訊號可是清楚的很。 我的三位同事甚至曾大老遠載我到遭空襲的地區，在那裡我能聽見的只有爆炸聲。塵土滿天飛，我腳下的地面震動得如盪鞦韆。後來我發現我們根本沒有要在那做報導，因為他們三個人回到裝甲吉普車上，揮手大笑地揚長而去，留下我一個人待在露天空襲區。 有一瞬間，我嚇壞了，感到備受侮辱，覺得很委屈。我同事的舉動並不是我唯一面對的死亡威脅，但卻是最危險的一次。 加薩女性的生活是被動的。直到近期，才有很多女性獲准工作並追求教育。面對雙重戰爭時，也就是社會對女性的限制與以巴衝突兩個戰爭下，女性的黑暗與光明故事都消逝了。對男人來說，女性的故事經常被視為無關緊要。 我便開始更加關注加薩女性的生活。我的性別讓我得以進入我同事被禁止參與的世界。在明顯的痛楚與掙扎之下，是充滿笑聲和富有成就的世界。在加薩的警察駐地前，當時正值第一場戰爭，以色列空軍突襲不只摧毀了駐地，還打斷我的鼻子。有一刻，我眼前所見是一片死白，就像這裡的燈一樣。我心想，我不是瞎了，就是上天堂了。等我可以睜眼時，我拍下這一幕。 莫哈馬德．哈德是巴勒斯坦工人，過去二十年在以色列生活。他的退休計劃就是要蓋一棟四層樓的房子，不過在該區的第一個實地行動中，他的房子被夷為平地。全部都毀了，只剩他養的鴿子，以及一個按摩浴缸，是他從特拉維夫帶回來的。莫哈馬德把浴缸放在碎石瓦片上，讓他的小孩每天早上都可以洗泡泡浴。 我的工作並不是要隱藏戰爭的瘡疤，而是要完整展現加薩人不為人知的故事全貌。身為巴勒斯坦女攝影記者，掙扎、倖存和日常生活的旅程都啟發我去克服社會禁忌，並看到戰爭的另一面及餘波。我成為了有所選擇的目擊者：可以逃跑或是站在原地。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
