Talk	en	zh-tw
emilie_wapnick_why_some_of_us_don_t_have_one_true_calling	"Raise your hand if you've ever been asked the question ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" Now if you had to guess, how old would you say you were when you were first asked this question? You can just hold up fingers. Three. Five. Three. Five. Five. OK. Now, raise your hand if the question ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" has ever caused you any anxiety. (Laughter) Any anxiety at all. I'm someone who's never been able to answer the question ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" See, the problem wasn't that I didn't have any interests — it's that I had too many. In high school, I liked English and math and art and I built websites and I played guitar in a punk band called Frustrated Telephone Operator. Maybe you've heard of us. (Laughter) This continued after high school, and at a certain point, I began to notice this pattern in myself where I would become interested in an area and I would dive in, become all-consumed, and I'd get to be pretty good at whatever it was, and then I would hit this point where I'd start to get bored. And usually I would try and persist anyway, because I had already devoted so much time and energy and sometimes money into this field. But eventually this sense of boredom, this feeling of, like, yeah, I got this, this isn't challenging anymore — it would get to be too much. And I would have to let it go. But then I would become interested in something else, something totally unrelated, and I would dive into that, and become all-consumed, and I'd be like, ""Yes! I found my thing,"" and then I would hit this point again where I'd start to get bored. And eventually, I would let it go. But then I would discover something new and totally different, and I would dive into that. This pattern caused me a lot of anxiety, for two reasons. The first was that I wasn't sure how I was going to turn any of this into a career. I thought that I would eventually have to pick one thing, deny all of my other passions, and just resign myself to being bored. The other reason it caused me so much anxiety was a little bit more personal. I worried that there was something wrong with this, and something wrong with me for being unable to stick with anything. I worried that I was afraid of commitment, or that I was scattered, or that I was self-sabotaging, afraid of my own success. If you can relate to my story and to these feelings, I'd like you to ask yourself a question that I wish I had asked myself back then. Ask yourself where you learned to assign the meaning of wrong or abnormal to doing many things. I'll tell you where you learned it: you learned it from the culture. We are first asked the question ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" when we're about five years old. And the truth is that no one really cares what you say when you're that age. (Laughter) It's considered an innocuous question, posed to little kids to elicit cute replies, like, ""I want to be an astronaut,"" or ""I want to be a ballerina,"" or ""I want to be a pirate."" Insert Halloween costume here. (Laughter) But this question gets asked of us again and again as we get older in various forms — for instance, high school students might get asked what major they're going to pick in college. And at some point, ""What do you want to be when you grow up?"" goes from being the cute exercise it once was to the thing that keeps us up at night. Why? See, while this question inspires kids to dream about what they could be, it does not inspire them to dream about all that they could be. In fact, it does just the opposite, because when someone asks you what you want to be, you can't reply with 20 different things, though well-meaning adults will likely chuckle and be like, ""Oh, how cute, but you can't be a violin maker and a psychologist. You have to choose."" This is Dr. Bob Childs — (Laughter) and he's a luthier and psychotherapist. And this is Amy Ng, a magazine editor turned illustrator, entrepreneur, teacher and creative director. But most kids don't hear about people like this. All they hear is that they're going to have to choose. But it's more than that. The notion of the narrowly focused life is highly romanticized in our culture. It's this idea of destiny or the one true calling, the idea that we each have one great thing we are meant to do during our time on this earth, and you need to figure out what that thing is and devote your life to it. But what if you're someone who isn't wired this way? What if there are a lot of different subjects that you're curious about, and many different things you want to do? Well, there is no room for someone like you in this framework. And so you might feel alone. You might feel like you don't have a purpose. And you might feel like there's something wrong with you. There's nothing wrong with you. What you are is a multipotentialite. (Laughter) (Applause) A multipotentialite is someone with many interests and creative pursuits. It's a mouthful to say. It might help if you break it up into three parts: multi, potential, and ite. You can also use one of the other terms that connote the same idea, such as polymath, the Renaissance person. Actually, during the Renaissance period, it was considered the ideal to be well-versed in multiple disciplines. Barbara Sher refers to us as ""scanners."" Use whichever term you like, or invent your own. I have to say I find it sort of fitting that as a community, we cannot agree on a single identity. (Laughter) It's easy to see your multipotentiality as a limitation or an affliction that you need to overcome. But what I've learned through speaking with people and writing about these ideas on my website, is that there are some tremendous strengths to being this way. Here are three multipotentialite super powers. One: idea synthesis. That is, combining two or more fields and creating something new at the intersection. Sha Hwang and Rachel Binx drew from their shared interests in cartography, data visualization, travel, mathematics and design, when they founded Meshu. Meshu is a company that creates custom geographically-inspired jewelry. Sha and Rachel came up with this unique idea not despite, but because of their eclectic mix of skills and experiences. Innovation happens at the intersections. That's where the new ideas come from. And multipotentialites, with all of their backgrounds, are able to access a lot of these points of intersection. The second multipotentialite superpower is rapid learning. When multipotentialites become interested in something, we go hard. We observe everything we can get our hands on. We're also used to being beginners, because we've been beginners so many times in the past, and this means that we're less afraid of trying new things and stepping out of our comfort zones. What's more, many skills are transferable across disciplines, and we bring everything we've learned to every new area we pursue, so we're rarely starting from scratch. Nora Dunn is a full-time traveler and freelance writer. As a child concert pianist, she honed an incredible ability to develop muscle memory. Now, she's the fastest typist she knows. (Laughter) Before becoming a writer, Nora was a financial planner. She had to learn the finer mechanics of sales when she was starting her practice, and this skill now helps her write compelling pitches to editors. It is rarely a waste of time to pursue something you're drawn to, even if you end up quitting. You might apply that knowledge in a different field entirely, in a way that you couldn't have anticipated. The third multipotentialite superpower is adaptability; that is, the ability to morph into whatever you need to be in a given situation. Abe Cajudo is sometimes a video director, sometimes a web designer, sometimes a Kickstarter consultant, sometimes a teacher, and sometimes, apparently, James Bond. (Laughter) He's valuable because he does good work. He's even more valuable because he can take on various roles, depending on his clients' needs. Fast Company magazine identified adaptability as the single most important skill to develop in order to thrive in the 21st century. The economic world is changing so quickly and unpredictably that it is the individuals and organizations that can pivot in order to meet the needs of the market that are really going to thrive. Idea synthesis, rapid learning and adaptability: three skills that multipotentialites are very adept at, and three skills that they might lose if pressured to narrow their focus. As a society, we have a vested interest in encouraging multipotentialites to be themselves. We have a lot of complex, multidimensional problems in the world right now, and we need creative, out-of-the-box thinkers to tackle them. Now, let's say that you are, in your heart, a specialist. You came out of the womb knowing you wanted to be a pediatric neurosurgeon. Don't worry — there's nothing wrong with you, either. (Laughter) In fact, some of the best teams are comprised of a specialist and multipotentialite paired together. The specialist can dive in deep and implement ideas, while the multipotentialite brings a breadth of knowledge to the project. It's a beautiful partnership. But we should all be designing lives and careers that are aligned with how we're wired. And sadly, multipotentialites are largely being encouraged simply to be more like their specialist peers. So with that said, if there is one thing you take away from this talk, I hope that it is this: embrace your inner wiring, whatever that may be. If you're a specialist at heart, then by all means, specialize. That is where you'll do your best work. But to the multipotentialites in the room, including those of you who may have just realized in the last 12 minutes that you are one — (Laughter) to you I say: embrace your many passions. Follow your curiosity down those rabbit holes. Explore your intersections. Embracing our inner wiring leads to a happier, more authentic life. And perhaps more importantly — multipotentialites, the world needs us. Thank you. (Applause)"	被問過以下問題的人，請舉手：「你長大後要做什麼？」 現在，如果你們願意猜猜看，你們第一次被問到這個問題時是幾歲？你們可以舉起手指回答。三歲。五歲。三歲。五歲。五歲。好。現在，如果「你長大後要做什麼？」曾讓你感到焦慮的話，請你舉起手來。 (笑聲) 只要會焦慮都算。 我就是那種永遠無法回答「你長大後要做什麼」這種問題的人。 告訴你，問題不是因為我沒有任何興趣，而是我有太多興趣。高中時期，我喜歡英文、數學和藝術，我還架設網站、在一個叫做《挫折的電話接線生》的龐克樂團擔任吉他手。或許你們聽說過我們。 (笑聲) 高中畢業後，狀況仍然持續，在某個時候，我開始注意到自己有這種行為模式：就是我會對某個領域有興趣，無論是什麼，我都會深入鑽研、全心投入，把它做到非常好。但到這個程度後，我會開始感到無聊。通常我會試著無論如何堅持下去，畢竟我已經投入這麼多時間和心力，甚至是金錢，在這個領域上。但最終這種無聊的感覺，這種「是啊，這我已經會了，不再有什麼挑戰了」的感覺會變得太過強烈，然後我就得就此罷休。 但此時我會開始對其他東西產生興趣，和之前完全不相關的東西，然後又開始深入鑽研、全心投入，然後我會覺得：「太好了，找到我的目標了！」但到這個時候，我又會開始感到無聊，最終又只好就此罷休。但在這之後，我又會發現全然不同的新東西，然後再度深入鑽研它。 這種行為模式讓我感到很焦慮，原因有兩個。第一個是，我無法確定要怎麼把這些興趣轉換成我的職涯。我認為我最終必須選擇其中一項，並拒絕所有其他的熱情，然後就任由無聊的感覺擺布。另一個讓我感到焦慮的原因就比較個人了。我擔心是不是哪裡出了問題，是不是我自己有問題，無法專注於任何事情。我擔心自己是害怕承諾、或是太散亂、或是有自我破壞傾向，害怕自己的成功。 如果各位能對我的故事和這些感覺產生共鳴，我希望各位能問自己一個問題，一個我但願過去的我也能問自己的問題。問問你們自己：你是從何處得到同時做很多事情是不對或是不正常的這個觀念？我來告訴各位這個觀念從何而來：從文化來的。 我們從五歲開始，就被問「你長大後要做什麼？」這個問題。而事實上在那個年紀，沒有人真的在意你怎麼回答。 (笑聲) 這被當成是一個善意的問題，純粹為了誘出小孩們可愛的回應。例如：「我想要當太空人」或是「我想當芭蕾舞演員」或是「我想當海盜」，可以自行代入各式萬聖節戲服。 (笑聲) 但這個問題就連我們逐漸長大後也一次又一次地出現，只是用其他不同的形式──舉例來說，高中生可能被問他們大學要主修哪一科。而從某個時候開始，「你長大後要做什麼？」從過去的可愛習題變成讓我們晚上睡不著的夢靨。為什麼？ 告訴各位，這個問題雖然鼓勵孩子夢想著自己未來能做的事，卻沒有鼓勵他們思考所有可能的夢想。事實上，它的效果正好相反。因為當有人問你未來要做什麼的時候，你無法給他們20個不同的答案，雖然善意的大人很有可能會笑著說：「喔！真可愛，不過你無法同時當提琴製作師和心理學家，你得選一個。」 這是鮑伯·查爾茲醫生。 (笑聲) 他是提琴製作家兼精神治療師這是艾米吳(Amy Ng)，從雜誌編輯轉為插畫家，同時還是企業家、老師和創意總監。但大部分的孩子沒有聽過這樣的人。他們聽到的都是必須選擇其中之一。但還不只這樣。這種將人生狹隘地專注在某件事上的觀念，被我們的文化高度浪漫化。就是那種每個人命中注定擁有某種天職的想法，那種我們每個人都有一件擅長的、該窮極一生去做的事，而你得將這件事找出來，並一輩子致力於這項工作的想法。 但如果你天生就不是這樣的人呢？如果你是那種對很多不同主題都感到好奇、有很多不同的事想做的人呢?嗯，這個架構之內並沒有太多空間容納像你這樣的人。所以你可能會感到孤獨。你可能會覺得自己沒有目標。你也可能會覺得自己出了問題。其實你沒有問題。你只是個「多向分化潛能者」。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 多向分化潛能者是一種有多種興趣和創意愛好的人。這個詞有點拗口，把它分解為三個部分會比較易懂：多向(multi)、潛能(potential)、的人(ite)。你也可以用任何涵義相同的詞語，例如博學者、文藝復興時期的人。事實上，在文藝復興時期，大家認為精通多種領域才是理想狀態。知名作家芭芭拉‧歇爾稱為我們為「掃描者」。你可以用任何喜歡的詞語，或自己發明一個。我必須說，這樣也有點適合我們這種無法同意自己只有單一身分的人。 (笑聲) 大家很容易將自己的多向分化潛能視為一種需要克服的限制或煩惱。但我透過和別人講話以及在我的網站上寫關於這些想法得知，這樣的人有些很棒的優勢。這裡有三個多向分化潛能者所擁有的超能力： 第一，想法的結合。也就是，結合兩個或更多領域，並在交會處創造一些新東西。黃沙和芮秋·賓西從他們共同的興趣──包含製圖、資料視覺化、旅遊、數學和設計──中取得靈感，創辦了飾品公司Meshu。Meshu是一間以地理位置為靈感製作飾品的公司。黃沙和芮秋想出這個獨特的主意，源自於他們五花八門的技能和經驗匯集，而非受其阻礙。創新發生在交會處。新主意就是從此而來。而多向分化潛能者擁有這些背景，讓他們得以進入這許多的交會點。 多向分化潛能者的第二種超能力，是快速學習。多向分化潛能者對某件事產生興趣時，會變得非常認真。我們會觀察任何拿得到手的東西。我們也很習慣當初學者，因為我們過去已經當過好多次初學者，而這代表我們比較不怕嘗試新東西以及踏出舒適圈。除此之外，許多技能都是可以在不同領域間轉換的，而我們會把在每個追求過的新領域中學到的東西隨身帶著，所以很少從零開始。 諾拉·鄧恩是全職旅行家和自由作家，小時候鋼琴演奏的經驗，讓她練就了驚人的肌肉記憶建造功夫，現在她不認識其它打字比她快的人。 (笑聲) 在成為作家前，諾拉是財務規劃師。她剛開業時，得學會更完善的銷售機制，而現在這個技能幫助她寫出極具說服力的提案給編輯。追求你感興趣的東西並不會是浪費時間，就算最後是以放棄收場。你可能會將那些知識應用到一個完全不同的領域，透過你之前完全沒想到的方式。 多向分化潛能者的第三個超能力是適應能力；也就是，將自己轉換為能順應當時所需的能力，以應付任何情況。阿部·卡胡多有時是導演、有時是網站設計師、有時是Kickstarter顧問、有時是老師、有時候，很顯然地，是007。 (笑聲) 他有價值的地方在於他把工作做得很好，但他更有價值的地方在於他能扮演多種角色，根據客戶需求調整。《Fast Company》雜誌將適應能力定為要在21世紀發光發熱最需要培養的重要技能。經濟的世界正在快速而不可預測地變遷，能夠隨著市場需求轉變的人和組織才能真正成長茁壯。 想法的結合、快速學習和適應能力：三個多向分化潛能者非常擅長的技能，同時也是他們被逼著要專心投注某件事時會失去的技能。身為社會上的一份子，鼓勵多向分化潛能者做自己是對我們有利的。現在世上有很多複雜、多面向的難題，我們能需要有創意、能跳脫窠臼思考的人來處理。 現在，假設在你心裡，你就是某個領域的專家，從娘胎裡出來你就知道自己想當小兒神經外科醫生，別擔心──你如果是這樣的人也沒有任何問題。 (笑聲) 事實上，許多頂尖的團隊都是由專家和多向分化潛能者的組合構成的。專家可以深入鑽研和執行想法，而多向分化潛能者負責將廣泛的知識帶入專案。這是很漂亮的合作關係。但我們應該根據自己的天性好好設計自己的生活和職涯。令人難過的是，我們經常鼓勵多向分化潛能者學著像他們的專家同事就好。 所以因為這樣，如果今天各位要從這場演講中帶走一樣東西，我希望會是這個：擁抱你內在的天性，不管是什麼。如果你內心深處是個專家，就無論如何設法專精。這是你能做到最好的地方。但對這裡的每一位多向分化潛能者，包含在過去12分鐘內，你剛意識到自己也是其中之一的人…… (笑聲) 我對你們說：擁抱你的多種熱情。跟隨自己的好奇心到兔子洞裡。探索你的交會處。擁抱與生俱來的天性會讓你有更快樂、更真實的人生。還有，或許最重要的是，各位多向分化潛能者，這個世界需要我們。 謝謝各位。 (掌聲)
