Talk	en	zh-tw
emily_pilloton_teaching_design_for_change	"So this is a story of a place that I now call home. It's a story of public education and of rural communities and of what design might do to improve both. So this is Bertie County, North Carolina, USA. To give you an idea of the ""where:"" So here's North Carolina, and if we zoom in, Bertie County is in the eastern part of the state. It's about two hours east driving-time from Raleigh. And it's very flat. It's very swampy. It's mostly farmland. The entire county is home to just 20,000 people, and they're very sparsely distributed. So there's only 27 people per square mile, which comes down to about 10 people per square kilometer. Bertie County is kind of a prime example in the demise of rural America. We've seen this story all over the country and even in places beyond the American borders. We know the symptoms. It's the hollowing out of small towns. It's downtowns becoming ghost towns. The brain drain — where all of the most educated and qualified leave and never come back. It's the dependence on farm subsidies and under-performing schools and higher poverty rates in rural areas than in urban. And Bertie County is no exception to this. Perhaps the biggest thing it struggles with, like many communities similar to it, is that there's no shared, collective investment in the future of rural communities. Only 6.8 percent of all our philanthropic giving in the U.S. right now benefits rural communities, and yet 20 percent of our population lives there. So Bertie County is not only very rural; it's incredibly poor. It is the poorest county in the state. It has one in three of its children living in poverty, and it's what is referred to as a ""rural ghetto."" The economy is mostly agricultural. The biggest crops are cotton and tobacco, and we're very proud of our Bertie County peanut. The biggest employer is the Purdue chicken processing plant. The county seat is Windsor. This is like Times Square of Windsor that you're looking at right now. It's home to only 2,000 people, and like a lot of other small towns it has been hollowed out over the years. There are more buildings that are empty or in disrepair than occupied and in use. You can count the number of restaurants in the county on one hand — Bunn's Barbecue being my absolute favorite. But in the whole county there is no coffee shop, there's no Internet cafe, there's no movie theater, there's no bookstore. There isn't even a Walmart. Racially, the county is about 60 percent African-American, but what happens in the public schools is most of the privileged white kids go to the private Lawrence Academy. So the public school students are about 86 percent African-American. And this is a spread from the local newspaper of the recent graduating class, and you can see the difference is pretty stark. So to say that the public education system in Bertie County is struggling would be a huge understatement. There's basically no pool of qualified teachers to pull from, and only eight percent of the people in the county have a bachelor's degree or higher. So there isn't a big legacy in the pride of education. In fact, two years ago, only 27 percent of all the third- through eighth-graders were passing the state standard in both English and math. So it sounds like I'm painting a really bleak picture of this place, but I promise there is good news. The biggest asset, in my opinion, one of the biggest assets in Bertie County right now is this man: This is Dr. Chip Zullinger, fondly known as Dr. Z. He was brought in in October 2007 as the new superintendent to basically fix this broken school system. And he previously was a superintendent in Charleston, South Carolina and then in Denver, Colorado. He started some of the country's first charter schools in the late '80s in the U.S. And he is an absolute renegade and a visionary, and he is the reason that I now live and work there. So in February of 2009, Dr. Zullinger invited us, Project H Design — which is a non-profit design firm that I founded — to come to Bertie and to partner with him on the repair of this school district and to bring a design perspective to the repair of the school district. And he invited us in particular because we have a very specific type of design process — one that results in appropriate design solutions in places that don't usually have access to design services or creative capital. Specifically, we use these six design directives, probably the most important being number two: we design with, not for — in that, when we're doing humanitarian-focused design, it's not about designing for clients anymore. It's about designing with people, and letting appropriate solutions emerge from within. So at the time of being invited down there, we were based in San Francisco, and so we were going back and forth for basically the rest of 2009, spending about half our time in Bertie County. And when I say we, I mean Project H, but more specifically, I mean myself and my partner, Matthew Miller, who's an architect and a sort of MacGyver-type builder. So fast-forward to today, and we now live there. I have strategically cut Matt's head out of this photo, because he would kill me if he knew I was using it because of the sweatsuits. But this is our front porch. We live there. We now call this place home. Over the course of this year that we spent flying back and forth, we realized we had fallen in love with the place. We had fallen in love with the place and the people and the work that we're able to do in a rural place like Bertie County, that, as designers and builders, you can't do everywhere. There's space to experiment and to weld and to test things. We have an amazing advocate in Dr. Zullinger. There's a nobility of real, hands-on, dirt-under-your-fingernails work. But beyond our personal reasons for wanting to be there, there is a huge need. There is a total vacuum of creative capital in Bertie County. There isn't a single licensed architect in the whole county. And so we saw an opportunity to bring design as this untouched tool, something that Bertie County didn't otherwise have, and to be sort of the — to usher that in as a new type of tool in their tool kit. The initial goal became using design within the public education system in partnership with Dr. Zullinger — that was why we were there. But beyond that, we recognized that Bertie County, as a community, was in dire need of a fresh perspective of pride and connectedness and of the creative capital that they were so much lacking. So the goal became, yes, to apply design within education, but then to figure out how to make education a great vehicle for community development. So in order to do this, we've taken three different approaches to the intersection of design and education. And I should say that these are three things that we've done in Bertie County, but I feel pretty confident that they could work in a lot of other rural communities around the U.S. and maybe even beyond. So the first of the three is design for education. This is the most kind of direct, obvious intersection of the two things. It's the physical construction of improved spaces and materials and experiences for teachers and students. This is in response to the awful mobile trailers and the outdated textbooks and the terrible materials that we're building schools out of these days. And so this played out for us in a couple different ways. The first was a series of renovations of computer labs. So traditionally, the computer labs, particularly in an under-performing school like Bertie County, where they have to benchmark test every other week, the computer lab is a kill-and-drill testing facility. You come in, you face the wall, you take your test and you leave. So we wanted to change the way that students approach technology, to create a more convivial and social space that was more engaging, more accessible, and also to increase the ability for teachers to use these spaces for technology-based instruction. So this is the lab at the high school, and the principal there is in love with this room. Every time he has visitors, it's the first place that he takes them. And this also meant the co-creation with some teachers of this educational playground system called the learning landscape. It allows elementary-level students to learn core subjects through game play and activity and running around and screaming and being a kid. So this game that the kids are playing here — in this case they were learning basic multiplication through a game called Match Me. And in Match Me, you take the class, divide it into two teams, one team on each side of the playground, and the teacher will take a piece of chalk and just write a number on each of the tires. And then she'll call out a math problem — so let's say four times four — and then one student from each team has to compete to figure out that four times four is 16 and find the tire with the 16 on it and sit on it. So the goal is to have all of your teammates sitting on the tires and then your team wins. And the impact of the learning landscape has been pretty surprising and amazing. Some of the classes and teachers have reported higher test scores, a greater comfort level with the material, especially with the boys, that in going outside and playing, they aren't afraid to take on a double-digit multiplication problem — and also that the teachers are able to use these as assessment tools to better gauge how their students are understanding new material. So with design for education, I think the most important thing is to have a shared ownership of the solutions with the teachers, so that they have the incentive and the desire to use them. So this is Mr. Perry. He's the assistant superintendent. He came out for one of our teacher-training days and won like five rounds of Match Me in a row and was very proud of himself. (Laughter) So the second approach is redesigning education itself. This is the most complex. It's a systems-level look at how education is administered and what is being offered and to whom. So in many cases this is not so much about making change as it is creating the conditions under which change is possible and the incentive to want to make change, which is easier said than done in rural communities and in inside-the-box education systems in rural communities. So for us, this was a graphic public campaign called Connect Bertie. There are thousands of these blue dots all over the county. And this was for a fund that the school district had to put a desktop computer and a broadband Internet connection in every home with a child in the public school system. Right now I should say, there are only 10 percent of the houses that actually have an in-home Internet connection. And the only places to get WiFi are in the school buildings, or at the Bojangles Fried Chicken joint, which I find myself squatting outside of a lot. Aside from, you know, getting people excited and wondering what the heck these blue dots were all over the place, it asked the school system to envision how it might become a catalyst for a more connected community. It asked them to reach outside of the school walls and to think about how they could play a role in the community's development. So the first batch of computers are being installed later this summer, and we're helping Dr. Zullinger develop some strategies around how we might connect the classroom and the home to extend learning beyond the school day. And then the third approach, which is what I'm most excited about, which is where we are now, is: design as education. So ""design as education"" means that we could actually teach design within public schools, and not design-based learning — not like ""let's learn physics by building a rocket,"" but actually learning design-thinking coupled with real construction and fabrication skills put towards a local community purpose. It also means that designers are no longer consultants, but we're teachers, and we are charged with growing creative capital within the next generation. And what design offers as an educational framework is an antidote to all of the boring, rigid, verbal instruction that so many of these school districts are plagued by. It's hands-on, it's in-your-face, it requires an active engagement, and it allows kids to apply all the core subject learning in real ways. So we started thinking about the legacy of shop class and how shop class — wood and metal shop class in particular — historically, has been something intended for kids who aren't going to go to college. It's a vocational training path. It's working-class; it's blue-collar. The projects are things like, let's make a birdhouse for your mom for Christmas. And in recent decades, a lot of the funding for shop class has gone away entirely. So we thought, what if you could bring back shop class, but this time orient the projects around things that the community needed, and to infuse shop class with a more critical and creative-design-thinking studio process. So we took this kind of nebulous idea and have worked really closely with Dr. Zullinger for the past year on writing this as a one-year curriculum offered at the high school level to the junior class. And so this starts in four weeks, at the end of the summer, and my partner and I, Matthew and I, just went through the arduous and totally convoluted process of getting certified as high school teachers to actually run it. And this is what it looks like. So over the course of two semesters, the Fall and the Spring, the students spend three hours a day every single day in our 4,500 square foot studio/shop space. And during that time, they're doing everything from going out and doing ethnographic research and doing the need-finding, coming back into the studio, doing the brainstorming and design visualization to come up with concepts that might work, and then moving into the shop and actually testing them, building them, prototyping them, figuring out if they are going to work and refining that. And then over the summer, they're offered a summer job. They're paid as employees of Project H to be the construction crew with us to build these projects in the community. So the first project, which will be built next summer, is an open-air farmers' market downtown, followed by bus shelters for the school bus system in the second year and home improvements for the elderly in the third year. So these are real visible projects that hopefully the students can point to and say, ""I built that, and I'm proud of it."" So I want you to meet three of our students. This is Ryan. She is 15 years old. She loves agriculture and wants to be a high school teacher. She wants to go to college, but she wants to come back to Bertie County, because that's where her family is from, where she calls home, and she feels very strongly about giving back to this place that she's been fairly fortunate in. So what Studio H might offer her is a way to develop skills so that she might give back in the most meaningful way. This is Eric. He plays for the football team. He is really into dirtbike racing, and he wants to be an architect. So for him, Studio H offers him a way to develop the skills he will need as an architect, everything from drafting to wood and metal construction to how to do research for a client. And then this is Anthony. He is 16 years old, loves hunting and fishing and being outside and doing anything with his hands, and so for him, Studio H means that he can stay interested in his education through that hands-on engagement. He's interested in forestry, but he isn't sure, so if he ends up not going to college, he will have developed some industry-relevant skills. What design and building really offers to public education is a different kind of classroom. So this building downtown, which may very well become the site of our future farmers' market, is now the classroom. And going out into the community and interviewing your neighbors about what kind of food they buy and from where and why — that's a homework assignment. And the ribbon-cutting ceremony at the end of the summer when they have built the farmers' market and it's open to the public — that's the final exam. And for the community, what design and building offers is real, visible, built progress. It's one project per year, and it makes the youth the biggest asset and the biggest untapped resource in imagining a new future. So we recognize that Studio H, especially in its first year, is a small story — 13 students, it's two teachers, it's one project in one place. But we feel like this could work in other places. And I really, strongly believe in the power of the small story, because it is so difficult to do humanitarian work at a global scale. Because, when you zoom out that far, you lose the ability to view people as humans. Ultimately, design itself is a process of constant education for the people that we work with and for and for us as designers. And let's face it, designers, we need to reinvent ourselves. We need to re-educate ourselves around the things that matter, we need to work outside of our comfort zones more, and we need to be better citizens in our own backyard. So while this is a very small story, we hope that it represents a step in the right direction for the future of rural communities and for the future of public education and hopefully also for the future of design. Thank you. (Applause)"	"這是從一個地方我現在把它叫做「家」來的故事。這是一個公立教育與偏遠地區和如何以設計改變兩者的故事這是伯地郡位於美國北卡羅納州讓我給你們一點大概的地理位置這裡是北卡羅納州,把地圖放大一點看伯地郡就位在北卡的東部地區大概是從里海往東兩個小時的車程是地形平坦的沼澤地大部分都用作農田整個郡總人口只有20,000人,而且分布的很零散.每平方英里只有27人如果以每平方公里來算相當於10個人 伯地郡是很典型美國沒落鄉村這樣的故事不只發生在美國境內甚至在其他國家都可以看到我們都知道它發生時的徵狀就是小鎮的空洞化市區人煙稀少人才流失大部分有學歷和有能力的人離開後就再也沒回來了這些偏遠地區只能依靠農田的補助金、表現不佳的學校和比起市區更高比例的低收入戶伯地郡當然也不例外或許所面臨最大的問題就像其他社區一樣沒有對偏遠社區未來共同集體的投資目前美國境內只有6.8%的慈善捐款是針對偏遠社區但居住在這些地區人口卻高達20% 所以伯地郡不但很偏遠而且是難以置信的貧窮它是全美最貧窮的郡3分之1的兒童來自低收入戶家庭所以這裡被稱作鄉村貧民窟農業是主要的經濟來源棉花及菸草是最大宗農作物而且我們也很以伯地郡的花生為傲普度雞肉加工廠是當地最大的雇主溫莎鎮是伯地郡的活動中心你們現在看到的就像是溫莎鎮的時代廣場不過居住在這裡的人只有2,000個就像很多其他的小鎮多年來已經漸漸的空洞化空屋或荒廢的建築物比有人住或使用中的建築物多得多你一隻手就可以數完整個郡的餐廳Bunn's燒烤是我的最愛可是整個郡卻連1家咖啡廳都沒有沒有網咖沒有電影院,沒有書局甚至沒有Walmart 以人口分布來說,這個郡有大約60%的非裔美國人但是在公立學校裡大部分有優勢的白人小孩都會到私立的羅倫斯中學就讀公立學校裡86%的學生是非裔美國人這是當地報紙刊登最近即將畢業學生的照片所以你可以發現這個差異是非常大的如果說伯地郡的公立教育系統正在苟言殘喘其實都還無法形容它的窘境他們根本找不到符合資格的老師全郡只有8%的人擁有學士或更高的學位所以沒有甚麼值得驕傲的教育遺產遺留下來事實上,兩年前所有三年級到八年級學生中只有27%的學生通過北卡州英文和數學的標準 聽起來我只是在說這個地方有多糟糕不過我保證也有好的一面我覺得現在伯地郡最大的資產就是這個人這是Chip Zullinger博士大家喜歡叫他Z博士他是2007年10月被邀請來伯地郡擔任新的督導基本上就是來補救這個殘破的教育系統他之前在南卡羅納州查爾斯頓市擔任過督導另外在美國80年代晚期他在科羅拉多州丹佛市首創全國第一家特許學校他是絕對反傳統而且有遠見的他是我決定搬到那並在那工作的原因2009年2月Zullinger 博士邀請我們H設計計畫H設計計畫是一家我為了伯地郡而創立的非營利設計公司我們到那與他一起修復學區並合作將設計的概念融入學區的修復他特別邀請我們來因為我們對設計的程序有非常明確的想法讓適切的解決方法在這些通常無法獲得設計服務或是有創造力資本的地方得以實現特別的是,我們使用六個設計指令最重要的應該是第二點一起設計而不是為誰設計因為這樣,所以當我們在做以人道主義為主的設計時不再是為客戶設計而是與大家一起設計讓最好的解決方法由內部產生 當我們被邀請到那裏時我們公司還在舊金山幾乎2009年一整年我們就這樣兩地往返我們花了大約一半的時間在伯地郡當我說我們的時候,我指的是H計畫更精確的說,就是我跟我的合夥人,馬修米勒他是個建築師,有點像馬蓋先那種類型的快轉到今天,現在我們已經搬到那住了我很技巧性的將照片裡馬修的頭砍掉如果他知道我用這張照片他肯定會殺了我因為這件運動衫這是我們的前庭,我們就住在那我們稱這裡""家""經過今年飛來飛去後我們體會到我們已經愛上這個地方了我們愛上的不只是這個地方,還有這裡的人我們可以做的工作是在像伯地郡這樣的偏遠地區然而,作為一個設計師及建築師不是每個地方都有空間讓你去實驗修補或測試Zullinger博士對我們是全力的擁護親手作這苦活是非常有成就感的 但除了我們個人原因想待在那裏外那裏確實有強烈的需求伯地郡中完全沒有具有創造力的資本可言整個郡上沒有一個有執照的建築師所以我們抓到這個機會引進這個未經雕琢的設計工具這是伯地郡之前完全不可能擁有的現在就像是工具箱裡新的工具被介紹給大家認識因此我們最初的目標就是與Zullinger博士合作將設計運用在公立教育系統這也是我們之所以在那的原因但除了這個原因之外,我們了解到伯地郡是個急需新願景的社區一個值得驕傲,有向心力有創造力資本的社區而這些都是他們過去所缺少的就這樣,我們將設計運用在教育裡作為目標然後再想出如何讓教育成為社區發展的火車頭 所以為了達成這個目標,我們用了三種不同的步驟來連結設計與教育我應該說我們在伯地郡做了三件事而且我很有信心這個計畫可以成功落實在美國其他偏遠社區甚至是美國以外的地方這三件事中的第一件事是為教育設計連結這兩件事是最直接最顯著的作法這個實際的建築物讓老師及學生對改善空間及材料的使用有更多經驗這是用來取代現今移動式拖車老舊教科書和學校糟糕的建築材料這個計畫展現在很多不同的地方首先是一連串電算中心的整修傳統上,對於學校的電算中心尤其是像伯地郡這樣表現不佳的鄉鎮每隔一個星期會進行標竿測試這樣的電算中心是很表面而達不成學習效果的測驗場所你走進來,面對牆,做完測驗然後離開我們想作的是改變學生接觸科技的方式去創造一個更有趣且大家更願意來的地方讓它變得更吸引人,更容易接近同時也可以增加老師使用這些地方作為科技基礎教學的機會這是中學裡的電算中心那裏的校長愛死這間教室了每次他有訪客,這裡都是第一個被參觀的地方 這也是跟一些其他老師共同創作的結果他們是教學遊樂區的老師,並使用一個叫做學習景觀的方法它讓初級程度的學生透過遊戲學習到事物的核心但還是可以像個小孩一樣跑來跑去大聲喊叫小朋友正在這裡玩配配看的遊戲並同時透過這個遊戲學習基礎乘法配配看遊戲呢,是將班級分成兩個小組分別在遊戲區兩邊然後老師拿粉筆在每個輪胎上寫下一個數字再來她會唸出數學題目譬如4乘4每個組選出1個學生出來比賽並計算出4乘4等於16而且要找出有寫有16的輪胎並且坐在上面隊員最先完成坐在輪胎上的隊伍就是贏家這個學習景觀方法所帶來的成效出乎我們的意料之外一些班級獲得到更好的成績而且對教材有更好的掌握尤其是男孩子喜歡到戶外玩耍他們不會害怕作兩位數的乘法而且老師也可以把這些器材當作評分的工具藉以更精準評估學生是否理解新的教材在這個為教育設計的步驟裡,我認為是最重要的是可以和老師共享解決方案所以他們才會有動機和慾望去使用它這是Perry先生,他是副督導有一天他來參觀我們的教學培訓課程贏了大概五次的配配看遊戲,對此他可是非常的自豪 (笑聲) 接下來,第二個步驟是重新設計教育本身這是最複雜的部分從系統的層級來看教育的落實教學的內容及教授的對象很多時候,我們不能要求改變多少因為我們所面臨的狀況是只能決定哪種改變是可行的或是為什麼想改變的動機然而在這樣偏避的區域要去實踐是很不容易的尤其在制式教育體制下的偏遠地區對我們而言,這是一個很生動的公眾競賽叫串起伯地郡在郡上有好幾千個這樣藍色的圓點這些圓點代表校區需要的資金因為學校為了籌措資金讓每個就讀公立學校的小孩家中都有電腦及寬頻網路目前為止僅有10%的家庭家裡真的有網路服務而能夠使用無線網路的地方只有在學校裡或Bojangles炸雞店我發現我自己常蹲在外面使用除此之外,也希望藉此讓大家覺得興奮或好奇這些到處看到的藍色圓點是要做甚麼用的它讓學校的教育體制有更大發揮的空間並成為連結社區的催化劑它讓學生接觸更多課本以外的資訊也讓他們開始思考自己在社區發展中需要扮演的角色第一批電腦預計會在今年夏天安裝同時我們也正在協助Zullinger博士開發新的策略以便連結教室和家裡讓學習可以擴大到非上課日 第三個步驟,也是我最興奮的就是我們現在在做的設計即教育設計即教育的意思是我們實際在公立學校裡教授設計課程而不是以設計為基礎的學習不是像為了學物理而去製作一個火箭而是真正學習設計的思考模式並融合實務的架構和建造的技巧來完成當地社區所需要的功能這也就意味著設計師不再是顧問而是我們這些老師們我們的責任是傳承具有成長性及創造力的資本給下一代這樣的設計不失為教育架構提供了一帖解藥很多學校對無趣,僵化,照本宣科的教學方法感到非常困擾而這個方法是親力親為,立即見真章的這需要積極的參與並讓孩子們可以將重點學習應用在生活中所以我們開始思索這個工藝課程的價值和為什麼這個特別著重於木頭及金屬的實作課程一直以來,在不準備上大學的小孩們中扮演重要的角色這是技職教育的路這是勞工藍領階級的我們的課程中有像是作鳥屋給媽媽當聖誕禮物最近幾十年來,很多工藝課的資助已經幾乎看不到了 我們就在想,如果能把工藝課程重新找回校園那會如何呢這次我們將課程圍繞著社區的需求來制定並將更多重要且充滿創造力的設計思維過程融合到工藝課中所以我們就這樣懵懵懂懂與Zullinger博士在過去一年裡密切的合作編寫一套一年為期的課程表提供給高年級到低年級的學生這個課程再四個星期就要開始了也就是夏天快結束的時候我和我的合夥人,馬修剛經歷了一場非常艱鉅而且迂迴的過程而終於獲得中學教師的執照並開始真正教學課程內容是這樣的 在兩學期中秋季班及春季班學生每天要花三個小時的時間待在我們4,500平方英呎的工作室/工藝教室裡這三小時,他們會做很多事從到戶外作鄉野研究和需求調查然後回到工作室開始思考並設計出圖像以便找出可行的辦法然後再回到工藝教室實際測試建構到作出模型再來確定模型是否可以用或是需要修正另外,暑假時,我們會提供學生暑期工作H計畫會支付他們薪水讓學生們可以和我們一起共同打造這個社區第一個計畫,是在明年夏天我們會在市區蓋一個露天的農夫市場接下來是第二年的校車公車亭第三年我們會幫年長者作居家修繕這些是實際可以看到的計畫我們希望這些學生可以指著這些計畫說這是我蓋的,我很引以為傲 現在讓我介紹三個學生這是萊恩15歲她很喜歡農業,她想要當中學老師她希望可以上大學,但之後回到伯地郡因為她的家人都在這,這是她的家她對回饋給這個讓她總是非常幸運的地方有非常強烈的信念現在在H工作室裡,我們可以提供技術的培養所以她就可以以最有意義的方式作回饋 這是Eric,他是足球隊員他很喜歡越野摩托車競賽他想要成為建築師所以對他而言,H工作室提供了培養他成為建築師的技能從製圖,木材及金屬的建構到幫客戶作調查 最後這一位是Anthony他今年16歲,喜歡打獵,釣魚和待在戶外,喜歡動手做東西對他而言,H計畫透過親手參與的過程讓他保持對學習的熱忱他對山林管理有興趣,不過不是很確定如果他最後沒有上大學他也已經具有產業相關的技能 設計和建造真正為公立教育帶來的是一種與眾不同的教室這個在市區的建築物將很有可能變成我們未來的農夫市場而現在是我們的教室另外,深入社區去拜訪了解鄰居買些甚麼食物從哪裡買還有為什麼買這些都是學生的回家作業我們的開工典禮會在今年夏天結束時舉行到時農夫市場將可以完成並展示給民眾這是我們的期末考對社區本身而言,設計及建築所帶來的是真實的,看得到的,建造發展過程這是一年一次的計畫我們希望透過這個計畫讓年輕人變成最大的財產及最大未開發的資源 我們了解,特別是在H工作室的元年這只是個微不足道的小故事13個學生,2個老師這只是一個地方的一個計畫我們覺得其他的地方也可以如法泡製而且我很堅定的相信小故事可以發揮巨大的力量因為要把人文工作推廣到全球難度是一定有的當你把目標設得太遠大時就會失去以人為本的出發點 基本上,設計本身就是一個不斷教育的過程不論是對一起工作的夥伴或是我們提供服務的客戶甚至是設計師本身設計師們,你們知道的,我們需要不斷的投資自己我們需要對重要的事重新學習我們需要多走出我們的舒適區我們需要為我們的社區付出更多即使這只是個小故事但我們希望這一小步能帶領偏遠地區的未來,公立教育的未來及設計的未來邁向正確的方向 謝謝 (掌聲)"
