Talk	en	zh-tw
emmanuel_jal_the_music_of_a_war_child	"I just want to say my name is Emmanuel Jal. And I come from a long way. I've been telling a story that has been so painful for me. It's been a tough journey for me, traveling the world, telling my story in form of a book. And also telling it like now. And also, the easiest one was when I was doing it in form of a music. So I have branded myself as a war child. I'm doing this because of an old lady in my village now, who have lost her children. There is no newspaper to cover her pain, and what she wants to change in this society. And I'm doing it for a young man who want to create a change and has no way to project his voice because he can't write. Or there is no Internet, like Facebook, MySpace, YouTube, for them to talk. Also one thing that kept me pushing this story, this painful stories out, the dreams I have, sometimes, is like the voices of the dead, that I have seen would tell me, ""Don't give up. Keep on going."" Because sometime I feel like stopping and not doing it, because I didn't know what I was putting myself into. Well I was born in the most difficult time, when my country was at war. I saw my village burned down. The world that meant a lot to me, I saw it vanish in my face. I saw my aunt in rape when I was only five. My mother was claimed by the war. My brothers and sisters were scattered. And up to now, me and my father were detached and I still have issues with him. Seeing people die every day, my mother crying, it's like I was raised in a violence. And that made me call myself a war child. And not only that, when I was eight I became a child soldier. I didn't know what was the war for. But one thing I knew was an image that I saw that stuck in my head. When I went to the training camp I say, ""I want to kill as many Muslims, and as many Arabs, as possible."" The training wasn't easy, but that was the driving force, because I wanted to revenge for my family. I wanted to revenge for my village. Luckily now things have changed because I came to discover the truth. What was actually killing us wasn't the Muslims, wasn't the Arabs. It was somebody sitting somewhere manipulating the system, and using religion to get what they want to get out of us, which is the oil, the diamond, the gold and the land. So realizing the truth gave me a position to choose: should I continue to hate, or let it go? So I happened to forgive. Now I sing music with the Muslims. I dance with them. I even had a movie out called ""War Child,"" funded by Muslim people. So that pain has gone out. But my story is huge. So I'm just going to go into a different step now, which is easier for me. I'm going to give you poem called ""Forced to Sin,"" which is from my album ""War Child."" I talk about my story. One of the journey that I tread when I was tempted to eat my friend because we had no food and we were like around 400. And only 16 people survived that journey. So I hope you're going to hear this. My dreams are like torment. My every moment. Voices in my brain, of friends that was slain. Friends like Lual who died by my side, of starvation. In the burning jungle, and the desert plain. Next was I, but Jesus heard my cry. As I was tempted to eat the rotten flesh of my comrade, he gave me comfort. We used to raid villages, stealing chickens, goats and sheeps, anything we could eat. I knew it was rude, but we needed food. And therefore I was forced to sin, forced to sin to make a living, forced to sin to make a living. Sometimes you gotta lose to win. Never give up. Never give in. Left home at the age of seven. One year later, live with an AK-47 by my side. Slept with one eye open wide. Run, duck, play dead and hide. I've seen my people die like flies. But I've never seen a dead body, at least one that I've killed. But still as I wonder, I won't go under. Guns barking like lightning and thunder. As a child so young and tender, Words I can't forget I still remember. I saw sergeant command raising his hand, no retreat, no surrender. I carry the banner of the trauma. War child, child without a mama, still fighting in the saga. Yet as I wage this new war I'm not alone in this drama. No sit or stop, as I reach for the top I'm fully dedicated like a patriotic cop. I'm on a fight, day and night. Sometime I do wrong in order to make things right. It's like I'm living a dream. First time I'm feeling like a human being. Ah! The children of Darfur. Your empty bellies on the telly and now it's you that I'm fighting for. Left home. Don't even know the day I'll ever return. My country is war-torn. Music I used to hear was bombs and fire of guns. So many people die that I don't even cry no more. Ask God question, what am I here for. And why are my people poor. And why, why when the rest of the children were learning how to read and write, I was learning how to fight. I ate snails, vultures, rabbits, snakes, and anything that had life. I was ready to eat. I know it's a shame. But who is to be blamed? That's my story shared in the form of a lesson. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) What energized me and kept me going is the music I do. I never saw anybody to tell my story to them so they could advise me or do therapy. So the music had been my therapy for me. It's been where I actually see heaven, where I can be happy, where I can be a child again, in dances, through music. So one thing I know about music: music is the only thing that has power to enter your cell system, your mind, your heart, influence your soul and your spirit, and can even influence the way you live without even you knowing. Music is the only thing that can make you want to wake up your bed and shake your leg, without even wanting to do it. And so the power music has I normally compare to the power love when love doesn't see a color. You know, if you fall in love with a frog, that's it. One testimony about how I find music is powerful is when I was still a soldier back then. I hated the people in the north. But I don't know why I don't hate their music. So we party and dance to their music. And one thing that shocked me is one day they brought an Arab musician to come and entertain the soldiers. And I almost broke my leg dancing to his music. But I had this question. So now I'm doing music so I know what the power of music is. So what's happening here? I've been in a painful journey. Today is day number 233 in which I only eat dinner. I don't eat breakfast. No lunch. And I've done a campaign called Lose to Win. Where I'm losing so that I could win the battle that I'm fighting now. So my breakfast, my lunch, I donate it to a charity that I founded because we want to build a school in Sudan. And I'm doing this because also it's a normal thing in my home, people eat one meal a day. Here I am in the West. I choose not to. So in my village now, kids there, they normally listen to BBC, or any radio, and they are waiting to know, the day Emmanuel will eat his breakfast it means he got the money to build our school. And so I made a commitment. I say, ""I'm gonna not eat my breakfast."" I thought I was famous enough that I would raise the money within one month, but I've been humbled. (Laughter) So it's taken me 232 days. And I said, ""No stop until we get it."" And like it's been done on Facebook, MySpace. The people are giving three dollars. The lowest amount we ever got was 20 cents. Somebody donated 20 cents online. I don't know how they did it. (Laughter) But that moved me. And so, the importance of education to me is what I'm willing to die for. I'm willing to die for this, because I know what it can do to my people. Education enlighten your brain, give you so many chances, and you're able to survive. As a nation we have been crippled. For so many years we have fed on aid. You see a 20-years-old, 30-years-old families in a refugee camps. They only get the food that drops from the sky, from the U.N. So these people, you're killing a whole generation if you just give them aid. If anybody want to help us this is what we need. Give us tools. Give the farmers tools. It's rain. Africa is fertile. They can grow the crops. (Applause) Invest in education. Education so that we have strong institution that can create a revolution to change everything. Because we have all those old men that are creating wars in Africa. They will die soon. But if you invest in education then we'll be able to change Africa. That's what I'm asking. (Applause) So in order to do that, I founded a charter called Gua Africa, where we put kids in school. And now we have a couple in university. We have like 40 kids, ex-child soldiers mixed with anybody that we feel like we want to support. And I said ""I'm going to put it in practice."" And with the people that are going to follow me and help me do things. That's what I want to do to change, to make a difference in the world. Well now, my time is going, so I want to sing a song. But I'll ask you guys to stand up so we celebrate the life of a British aid worker called Emma McCune that made it possible for me to be here. I'm gonna sing this song, just to inspire you how this woman has made a difference. She came to my country and saw the importance of education. She said the only way to help Sudan is to invest in the women, educating them, educating the children, so that they could come and create a revolution in this complex society. So she even ended up marrying a commander from the SPLA. And she rescued over 150 child soldiers. One of them happened to be me now. And so at this moment I want to ask to celebrate Emma with me. Are you guys ready to celebrate Emma? Audience: Yes! Emmanuel Jal: All right. ♫ This one goes to Emma McCune ♫ ♫ Angel to rescue came one afternoon ♫ ♫ I'm here because you rescued me ♫ ♫ I'm proud to carry your legacy ♫ ♫ Thank you. Bless you. R.I.P. ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? What would I be? ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ Another starving refugee ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? Yeah! ♫ ♫ Yeah! Yeah! ♫ ♫ You would have seen my face on the telly ♫ ♫ Fat hungry belly ♫ ♫ Flies in my eyes, head too big for my size ♫ ♫ Just another little starving child ♫ ♫ Running around in Africa, born to be wild ♫ ♫ Praise God, praise the Almighty ♫ ♫ for sending an angel to rescue me ♫ ♫ I got a reason for being on this Earth ♫ ♫ 'Cause I know more than many what a life is worth ♫ ♫ Now that I got a chance to stand my ground ♫ ♫ I'm gonna run over mountains, leaps and bounds ♫ ♫ I ain't an angel, hope I'll be one soon ♫ ♫ And if I am, I wanna be like Emma McCune ♫ ♫ Me! What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ Another starving refugee ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? Yeah! Yeah!♫ ♫ Yeah, Yeah! ♫ ♫ I would have probably died from starvation ♫ ♫ Or some other wretched disease ♫ ♫ I would have grown up with no education ♫ ♫ Just another refugee ♫ ♫ I stand here because somebody cared ♫ ♫ I stand here because somebody dared ♫ ♫ I know there is a lot of Emmas out there ♫ ♫ Who is willing and trying to save a life of a child ♫ ♫ What would I be? Me! ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ Another starving refugee ♫ ♫ I remember the time when I was small ♫ ♫ When I couldn't read or write at all ♫ ♫ Now I'm all grown up, I got my education ♫ ♫ The sky is the limit and I can't be stopped by no one ♫ ♫ How I prayed for this day to come ♫ ♫ And I pray that the world find wisdom ♫ ♫ To give the poor in need some assistance ♫ ♫ Instead of putting up resistance, yeah ♫ ♫ Sitting and waiting for the politics to fix this ♫ ♫ It ain't gonna happen ♫ ♫ They're all sitting on they asses ♫ ♫ Popping champagne and sponging off the masses ♫ ♫ Coming from a refugee boy-soldier ♫ ♫ But I still got my dignity ♫ ♫ I gotta say it again ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me ♫ ♫ I'd be a corpse on the African plain ♫ Is there anybody who's here in the back, some love. Big scream for Emma everybody. Yeah! I'm gonna get crazy now. ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ Another starving refugee ♫ ♫ What would I be? ♫ ♫ If Emma never rescued me? ♫ ♫ Yeah, Yeah ♫ ♫ Yeah, I would have probably died from starvation ♫ ♫ Or some other wretched disease ♫ ♫ I would have grown up with no education ♫ ♫ Just another refugee ♫ (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Go save a life of a child. (Applause)"	我叫做Emmanuel Jal我經歷過許多事長期以來，我向大眾述說那些痛苦的往事對我來說，這是個辛苦的過程，我拜訪各國演說將我的故事撰寫成書也像現在這樣演講還有，最輕鬆的方式是透過音樂來傳達我的想法 我替自己取了個綽號，叫做戰地兒童我這麼做是因為和我同個村莊的老婦人失去了她的孩子沒有新聞願意報導她的苦痛以及她想為社會做的改變我這麼做，也是為了一個年輕人他想要改變，卻無處發聲因為他不會寫字也沒有網路，沒有Facebook、Myspace或是YouTube等平台讓他們發聲 另一個無形鞭策我這麼努力地說故事四處分享這痛苦歷程的動力，就是我的夢想有時候就像是，我會聽到那些不幸喪命的人的聲音告訴我，「別放棄，堅持下去」因為我曾經幾度想放棄我不曉得這麼做會把自己推向什麼境地 我出生時，正好是生活最艱困的時刻我的國家承受戰火摧殘我看著我的村莊被燒毀這個對我意義非凡的世界，從我眼前消失我五歲時，看到我阿姨被強姦母親死於戰爭我的兄弟姐妹們四散各處到現在，即使我和我的父親已不在一起我對他還是心懷芥蒂我每天目睹死亡看著母親哭泣就像是被暴戾之氣扶養帶大一樣所以我自稱戰地兒童 不只如此，在我八歲時我成了童兵 我不知道打仗是為了什麼我只知道那些在我腦中、揮之不去的畫面當我到了童兵訓練營，我說我想要儘可能殺光所有的回教徒和阿拉伯人裡面的訓練很辛苦，但那是我支撐下去的動力因為我想替家人復仇我想為村民復仇 幸運地，現在一切有了轉機因為我發現了事實殺我們的並不是回教徒不是阿拉伯人而是某些藏在暗處、操縱我們的人他們利用我們的信仰，獲得他想要的也就是石油、鑽石黃金和土地理解到這個事實，讓我有能力選擇我該繼續憤怒，還是放下？ 而我選擇原諒。現在我和回教徒一起高歌、一塊跳舞我甚至還拍了一部由回教徒贊助的電影叫做「戰地兒童」痛苦已漸漸離去但我的故事是很龐雜的所以現在，我要用一個不同的作法一個對我來說簡單一點的方式我想朗誦一首詩叫做「被迫犯罪」選自我的專輯《戰地兒童》它在說我的故事在一次行軍因為沒有食物，我必須吃下同伴的屍體果腹一開始我們的隊伍有400人行軍最後，只剩下16人還活著我希望，你們能聽見我的聲音 我在夢中反覆煎熬每一刻 腦中都傳來死去朋友的聲音 他們就像Lual這樣，再也無法承受飢餓 死在我身旁在烈火焚林，也在廣漠荒原 下一個應該就輪到我，但耶穌聽見了我的哭喊 就當我要吃下同伴的腐爛身軀時 祂給我慰藉 我們曾掠奪村莊偷走雞隻和羊群 偷走所有能吃的東西 我明白這很粗蠻，但我們需要食物 所以我不得不犯罪為了生存，我被迫去犯罪 為了生存，我被迫去犯罪 有時候，你必須有失，才能有得 別放棄，別投降 七歲離家 一年後，身邊多了把AK-47步槍 睡覺還得睜著一隻眼 奔跑、閃避、裝死、躲藏 同伴們彷彿螻蟻般一個個死去 但我從沒見過任何一具屍體 至少沒見過因我而死的屍體 但每當我徘徊，仍不認輸 四處都是槍林彈雨 當時還年幼脆弱的我 無法忘卻那個人說的話 我看見那個指揮官高舉雙手喊 「不撤退，不投降」 我遍體鱗傷 戰地兒童，沒有母親的孩子 仍上演著拚鬥的冒險故事 然而在這場嶄新的戰役中，我並不孤單 不到終點決不休息 像個愛國的警察般全力以赴 不分日夜地奮鬥 有時犯錯，是為了成就對的事 彷彿一直以來，我都活在夢中 直到現在，才頭一次感覺自己像個人 阿！達佛的孩子 電視中你飢餓的肚皮正是我奮鬥的原因 離開家園不曉得何時才能回家 我的家園被戰爭摧毀 陪伴我的音樂，是隆隆作響的炸彈和槍聲 太多人死亡，我甚至再也流不出淚 請問蒼天，我的存在有意義嗎 為什麼我們如此窮困 為什麼當其他孩子在上學時 我卻學習如何打仗 我吃過蝸牛、禿鷹、兔子、蛇任何有生命的東西 我都吃過 我知道很丟臉，但我能怪誰？ 這就是我的故事 (鼓掌)謝謝(鼓掌) 我的音樂是支持我繼續的力量沒人能替我向大眾訴說我的故事找人來輔導我、安慰我所以音樂成了我療傷的藥方在音樂裡，我看見天堂在那裡，我能感受快樂我能找回童真，自在跳舞我知道世上只有音樂能有力量穿越你的肌膚你的意志、你的心靈影響你的靈魂並且在不知不覺中影響你的生活方式只有音樂，才能讓你早上自然地從床上醒來不假思索地踢踢雙腳我常拿音樂的力量和愛的力量相提並論愛是不分種族膚色的就像你愛上了青蛙，也就只能愛上了 關於我發現音樂強大力量的另一則故事是發生在我還是童兵的時候當時我痛恨北方的人但我就是不恨他們的音樂我們總能隨他們的音樂起舞狂歡最讓我吃驚的是有天，一個阿拉伯音樂家來營裡為士兵們表演那次我跳舞跳到腳都快斷了所以我有了個疑問我現在成了音樂人，也懂得了音樂的力量 從以前的我到現在，這中間發生了什麼事？最近我正在進行一項痛苦的修煉這段時間我只吃晚餐到今天是第233天沒有早餐、沒有午餐我發起一個運動叫做「先有失，才有得」像我現在做的事我放棄了一些東西來贏得勝利我的早餐、午餐都捐給我成立的慈善機構因為我想為蘇丹的孩子蓋間學校 另一方面，我這麼做也是因為在我的國家，一天吃一餐是很正常的現在我到了西方國家，我仍選擇只吃一餐在我家鄉的孩子們會聽著BBC或其他廣播等著想知道何時Emmanuel會重新開始吃早餐因為，那就表示有錢蓋學校了所以我做了承諾，我說「我決定不要吃早餐」我以為依照我的名氣，一個月內應該就能達成目標後來發現是我想太多了(笑聲) 所以我花了232天而我還是說，「未達目的決不放棄」在Facebook和Myspace都有人響應我的行動有人捐出三塊美金我們也曾獲得最低的捐贈，美金20分對方透過網路捐了美金20分我真不曉得他們怎麼做到的(笑聲)但他們的善心感動了我 對我而言，教育是值得用生命換取的我願意誓死奉獻因為我知道這能為我的族人做什麼教育啟發心智賦予我們選擇的權利讓我們有生存的機會那是個羸弱不堪的國度多年來只能靠援助維生你可以看到2、30歲的人與家人同住在難民營他們只能得到聯合國空投下來的食物 這些人如果只給予他們救濟物資的話，就形同扼殺了整個世代如果有任何人想幫助我們請先了解我們的需要請給我們工具，給我們農具非洲有雨水、有沃土，人們是可以耕作的(掌聲)請投資教育吧投資教育，我們才能有健全的組織足以發起革新，改變原有的一切那些在非洲製造戰爭的老頭們垂垂老矣，很快就會死了如果你們投資教育我們就能改造非洲這就是我所呼籲的(掌聲) 為了這個目標我創立了Gua Africa機構安置孩子上學而現在幾個孩子已上了大學我們有40幾個孩子，他們有些曾是童兵還有一些我們認為同樣需要支援的孩子我說，我們要付諸實踐和那些願意跟隨我、幫助我的人我們想要做出改變創造不同的世界 現在，時間不多了我想唱首歌請大家站起來讓我們來讚頌一位英國的救助人員她叫做Emma McCune因為她，我才能站在這我要唱這首歌邀你們一同感受這位女子如何發揮影響她來到我的國家看見教育的重要性 她說幫助蘇丹唯一的方法就是投資在教育女人教育小孩上他們才有辦法在這複雜的環境中做出改變她甚至後來選擇嫁給蘇丹人民解放軍的指揮官她拯救了超過150個童兵其中一個就是我所以現在我想邀請大家跟我一起讚頌Emma你們準備好了嗎？ (觀眾:) 好了！ 好 ♫ 這首歌獻給Emma McCune ♫ ♫ 她是下凡拯救我的天使 ♫ ♫ 我能站在這裡都是因為妳救了我 ♫ ♫ 能發揚妳的寶貴資產，我感到榮耀 ♫ ♫ 感謝妳，祝福妳，願妳安息 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？我！ ♫ ♫ 如果Emma不曾拯救我，我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？我！ ♫♫ 大概是另一個飢餓的難民吧 ♫♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？　我！ ♫ ♫ 如果Emma沒有拯救我？ ♫ ♫ 耶！耶！ ♫ ♫ 你會在電視上看到我 ♫ ♫ 有著突出的肚皮 ♫ ♫ 眼裡有蒼蠅，頭大身小的比例 ♫ ♫ 只是另一個餓壞的孩子 ♫ ♫ 在非洲奔跑的野蠻孩子 ♫ ♫ 讚美主，萬能的上帝 ♫ ♫ 謝謝祢派了天使來拯救我 ♫ ♫ 於是我在這世上便有了意義 ♫ ♫ 因為我比很多人更懂得生命的可貴 ♫ ♫ 現在我有了立身之處 ♫ ♫ 我要翻山越嶺 ♫ ♫ 我不是天使，但我期許自己也能成為其中一員 ♫ ♫ 如果我是，我要像Emma McCune ♫ ♫ 我！我會成為什麼樣的人呢？我！ ♫ ♫ 如果Emma從未拯救我 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？我！ ♫ ♫ 大概是另一個飢餓的難民吧 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？我！♫ ♫ 如果Emma不曾拯救我？耶！耶！ ♫ ♫ 耶！耶！ ♫ ♫ 我很可能會死於飢荒 ♫ ♫ 或是被病魔奪去性命 ♫ ♫ 我會無法念書 ♫ ♫ 成為另一個難民 ♫ ♫ 因為有人在乎，我能站在這裡 ♫ ♫ 因為有人勇敢，我能站在這裡 ♫ ♫ 我知道世界還有很多人像Emma ♫ ♫ 願意挽救另一個孩童的生命 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？我！ ♫♫ 如果Emma不曾拯救我 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 大概是另一個飢餓的難民吧 ♫ ♫ 我記得小時候 ♫ ♫ 還不識字，也不會寫 ♫ ♫ 現在我長大了，唸書了 ♫ ♫ 世界無限大，沒有人能阻止我 ♫ ♫ 我多麼期盼這天能夠到來 ♫ ♫ 我祈禱世界能獲取智慧 ♫ ♫ 幫助需要幫助的貧民 ♫ ♫ 而不是築起對立的高牆 ♫ ♫ 等待政治人物有天會出面幫我們解決問題 ♫ ♫ 這是不可能的 ♫ ♫ 他們只會將他們的大屁股穩穩坐定 ♫ ♫ 選舉造勢、剝削百姓 ♫ ♫ 即使曾是一個貧困的童兵 ♫ ♫ 但我仍有我的尊嚴 ♫ ♫ 我要再說一次 ♫ ♫ 如果Emma不曾拯救我 ♫ ♫ 我會是非洲平原上的一具屍首 ♫ ♫ 後面的朋友一起來 ♫ ♫ 一起替Emma歡呼 ♫ ♫ 耶！我要放肆地跳了 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 如果Emma沒有拯救我 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人？ ♫ ♫ 大概是另一個飢餓的難民吧 ♫ ♫ 我會成為什麼樣的人 ♫ ♫ 如果Emma沒有拯救我？ ♫ ♫ 耶！耶！ ♫ ♫ 我很可能會死於飢荒 ♫ ♫ 或是被病魔奪去性命 ♫ ♫ 我會失去教育 ♫ ♫ 成為另一個難民 ♫ (掌聲)謝謝(掌聲) 開始拯救孩童的生命吧(掌聲)
