Talk	en	zh-tw
enric_sala	I'm going to tell you two things today: One is what we have lost, and two, a way to bring it back. And let me start with this. This is my baseline: This is the Mediterranean coast with no fish, bare rock and lots of sea urchins that like to eat the algae. Something like this is what I first saw when I jumped in the water for the first time in the Mediterranean coast off Spain. Now, if an alien came to earth — let's call him Joe — what would Joe see? If Joe jumped in a coral reef, there are many things the alien could see. Very unlikely, Joe would jump on a pristine coral reef, a virgin coral reef with lots of coral, sharks, crocodiles, manatees, groupers, turtles, etc. So, probably, what Joe would see would be in this part, in the greenish part of the picture. Here we have the extreme with dead corals, microbial soup and jellyfish. And where the diver is, this is probably where most of the reefs of the world are now, with very few corals, algae overgrowing the corals, lots of bacteria, and where the large animals are gone. And this is what most marine scientists have seen too. This is their baseline. This is what they think is natural because we started modern science with scuba diving long after we started degrading marine ecosystems. So I'm going to get us all on a time machine, and we're going to the left; we're going to go back to the past to see what the ocean was like. And let's start with this time machine, the Line Islands, where we have conducted a series of National Geographic expeditions. This sea is an archipelago belonging to Kiribati that spans across the equator and it has several uninhabited, unfished, pristine islands and a few inhabited islands. So let's start with the first one: Christmas Island, over 5,000 people. Most of the reefs are dead, most of the corals are dead — overgrown by algae — and most of the fish are smaller than the pencils we use to count them. We did 250 hours of diving here in 2005. We didn't see a single shark. This is the place that Captain Cook discovered in 1777 and he described a huge abundance of sharks biting the rudders and the oars of their small boats while they were going ashore. Let's move the dial a little bit to the past. Fanning Island, 2,500 people. The corals are doing better here. Lots of small fish. This is what many divers would consider paradise. This is where you can see most of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. And many people think this is really, really beautiful, if this is your baseline. If we go back to a place like Palmyra Atoll, where I was with Jeremy Jackson a few years ago, the corals are doing better and there are sharks. You can see sharks in every single dive. And this is something that is very unusual in today's coral reefs. But then, if we shift the dial 200, 500 years back, then we get to the places where the corals are absolutely healthy and gorgeous, forming spectacular structures, and where the predators are the most conspicuous thing, where you see between 25 and 50 sharks per dive. What have we learned from these places? This is what we thought was natural. This is what we call the biomass pyramid. If we get all of the fish of a coral reef together and weigh them, this is what we would expect. Most of the biomass is low on the food chain, the herbivores, the parrotfish, the surgeonfish that eat the algae. Then the plankton feeders, these little damselfish, the little animals floating in the water. And then we have a lower biomass of carnivores, and a lower biomass of top head, or the sharks, the large snappers, the large groupers. But this is a consequence. This view of the world is a consequence of having studied degraded reefs. When we went to pristine reefs, we realized that the natural world was upside down; this pyramid was inverted. The top head does account for most of the biomass, in some places up to 85 percent, like Kingman Reef, which is now protected. The good news is that, in addition to having more predators, there's more of everything. The size of these boxes is bigger. We have more sharks, more biomass of snappers, more biomass of herbivores, too, like these parrot fish that are like marine goats. They clean the reef; everything that grows enough to be seen, they eat, and they keep the reef clean and allow the corals to replenish. Not only do these places — these ancient, pristine places — have lots of fish, but they also have other important components of the ecosystem like the giant clams; pavements of giant clams in the lagoons, up to 20, 25 per square meter. These have disappeared from every inhabited reef in the world, and they filter the water; they keep the water clean from microbes and pathogens. But still, now we have global warming. If we don't have fishing because these reefs are protected by law or their remoteness, this is great. But the water gets warmer for too long and the corals die. So how are these fish, these predators going to help? Well, what we have seen is that in this particular area during El Nino, year '97, '98, the water was too warm for too long, and many corals bleached and many died. In Christmas, where the food web is really trimmed down, where the large animals are gone, the corals have not recovered. In Fanning Island, the corals are not recovered. But you see here a big table coral that died and collapsed. And the fish have grazed the algae, so the turf of algae is a little lower. Then you go to Palmyra Atoll that has more biomass of herbivores, and the dead corals are clean, and the corals are coming back. And when you go to the pristine side, did this ever bleach? These places bleached too, but they recovered faster. The more intact, the more complete, [and] the more complex your food web, the higher the resilience, [and] the more likely that the system is going to recover from the short-term impacts of warming events. And that's good news, so we need to recover that structure. We need to make sure that all of the pieces of the ecosystem are there so the ecosystem can adapt to the effects of global warming. So if we have to reset the baseline, if we have to push the ecosystem back to the left, how can we do it? Well, there are several ways. One very clear way is the marine protected areas, especially no-take reserves that we set aside to allow for the recovery for marine life. And let me go back to that image of the Mediterranean. This was my baseline. This is what I saw when I was a kid. And at the same time I was watching Jacques Cousteau's shows on TV, with all this richness and abundance and diversity. And I thought that this richness belonged to tropical seas, and that the Mediterranean was a naturally poor sea. But, little did I know, until I jumped for the first time in a marine reserve. And this is what I saw, lots of fish. After a few years, between five and seven years, fish come back, they eat the urchins, and then the algae grow again. So you have this little algal forest, and in the size of a laptop you can find more than 100 species of algae, mostly microscopic fit hundreds of species of little animals that then feed the fish, so that the system recovers. And this particular place, the Medes Islands Marine Reserve, is only 94 hectares, and it brings 6 million euros to the local economy, 20 times more than fishing, and it represents 88 percent of all the tourist revenue. So these places not only help the ecosystem but also help the people who can benefit from the ecosystem. So let me just give you a summary of what no-take reserves do. These places, when we protect them, if we compare them to unprotected areas nearby, this is what happens. The number of species increases 21 percent; so if you have 1,000 species you would expect 200 more in a marine reserve. This is very substantial. The size of organisms increases a third, so your fish are now this big. The abundance, how many fish you have per square meter, increases almost 170 percent. And the biomass — this is the most spectacular change — 4.5 times greater biomass on average, just after five to seven years. In some places up to 10 times larger biomass inside the reserves. So we have all these things inside the reserve that grow, and what do they do? They reproduce. That's population biology 101. If you don't kill the fish, they take a longer time to die, they grow larger and they reproduce a lot. And same thing for invertebrates. This is the example. These are egg cases laid by a snail off the coast of Chile, and this is how many eggs they lay on the bottom. Outside the reserve, you cannot even detect this. One point three million eggs per square meter inside the marine reserve where these snails are very abundant. So these organisms reproduce, the little larvae juveniles spill over, they all spill over, and then people can benefit from them outside too. This is in the Bahamas: Nassau grouper. Huge abundance of groupers inside the reserve, and the closer you get to the reserve, the more fish you have. So the fishermen are catching more. You can see where the limits of the reserve are because you see the boats lined up. So there is spill over; there are benefits beyond the boundaries of these reserves that help people around them, while at the same time the reserve is protecting the entire habitat. It is building resilience. So what we have now — or a world without reserves — is like a debit account where we withdraw all the time and we never make any deposit. Reserves are like savings accounts. We have this principal that we don't touch; that produces returns, social, economic and ecological. And if we think about the increase of biomass inside the reserves, this is like compound interest. Two examples, again, of how these reserves can benefit people. This is how much fishermen get everyday in Kenya, fishing over a series of years, in a place where there is no protection; it's a free-for-all. Once the most degrading fishing gear, seine nets, were removed, the fishermen were catching more. If you fish less, you're actually catching more. But if we add the no-take reserve on top of that, the fishermen are still making more money by fishing less around an area that is protected. Another example: Nassau groupers in Belize in the Mesoamerican Reef. This is grouper sex, and the groupers aggregate around the full moons of December and January for a week. They used to aggregate up to the tens of thousands, 30,000 groupers about this big in one hectare, in one aggregation. Fishermen knew about these things; they caught them, and they depleted them. When I went there for the first time in 2000, there were only 3,000 groupers left. And the fishermen were authorized to catch 30 percent of the entire spawning population every year. So we did a simple analysis, and it doesn't take rocket science to figure out that, if you take 30 percent every year, your fishery is going to collapse very quickly. And with the fishery, the entire reproductive ability of the species goes extinct. It happened in many places around the Caribbean. And they would make 4,000 dollars per year, total, for the entire fishery, several fishing boats. Now, if you do an economic analysis and project what would happen if the fish were not cut, if we brought just 20 divers one month per year, the revenue would be more than 20 times higher and that would be sustainable over time. So how much of this do we have? If this is so good, if this is such a no-brainer, how much of this do we have? And you already heard that less than one percent of the ocean's protected. We're getting closer to one percent now, thanks to the protections of the Chagos Archipelago, and only a fraction of this is fully protected from fishing. Scientific studies recommend that at least 20 percent of the ocean should be protected. The estimated range is between 20 and 50 percent for a series of goals of biodiversity and fishery enhancement and resilience. Now, is this possible? People would ask: How much would that cost? Well, let's think about how much we are paying now to subsidize fishing: 35 billion dollars per year. Many of these subsidies go to destructive fishing practices. Well, there are a couple estimates of how much it would cost to create a network of protected areas covering 20 percent of the ocean that would be only a fraction of what we are now paying; the government hands out to a fishery that is collapsing. People are losing their jobs because the fisheries are collapsing. A creation of a network of reserves would provide direct employment for more than a million people plus all the secondary jobs and all the secondary benefits. So how can we do that? If it's so clear that these savings accounts are good for the environment and for people, why don't we have 20, 50 percent of the ocean? And how can we reach that goal? Well, there are two ways of getting there. The trivial solution is to create really large protected areas like the Chagos Archipelago. The problem is that we can create these large reserves only in places where there are no people, where there is no social conflict, where the political cost is really low and the economic cost is also low. And a few of us, a few organizations in this room and elsewhere are working on this. But what about the rest of the coast of the world, where people live and make a living out of fishing? Well, there are three main reasons why we don't have tens of thousands of small reserves: The first one is that people have no idea what marine reserves do, and fishermen tend to be really, really defensive when it comes to regulating or closing an area, even if it's small. Second, the governance is not right because most coastal communities around the world don't have the authority to monitor the resources to create the reserve and enforce it. It's a top down hierarchical structure where people wait for government agents to come and this is not effective. And the government doesn't have enough resources. Which takes us to the third reason, why we don't have many more reserves, is that the funding models have been wrong. NGOs and governments spend a lot of time and energy and resources in a few small areas, usually. So marine conservation and coastal protection has become a sink for government or philanthropic money, and this is not sustainable. So the solutions are just fixing these three issues. First, we need to develop a global awareness campaign to inspire local communities and governments to create no-take reserves that are better than what we have now. It's the savings accounts versus the debit accounts with no deposits. Second, we need to redesign our governance so conservation efforts can be decentralized, so conservation efforts don't depend on work from NGOs or from government agencies and can be created by the local communities, like it happens in the Philippines and a few other places. And third, and very important, we need to develop new business models. The philanthropy sink as the only way to create reserves is not sustainable. We really need to develop models, business models, where coastal conservation is an investment, because we already know that these marine reserves provide social, ecological and economic benefits. And I'd like to finish with one thought, which is that no one organization alone is going to save the ocean. There has been a lot of competition in the past, and we need to develop a new model of partnership, truly collaborative, where we are looking for complementing, not substituting. The stakes are just too high to continue the way we are going. So let's do that. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Thank you Enric. Enric Sala: Thank you. CA: That was a masterful job of pulling things together. First of all, your pyramid, your inverted pyramid, showing 85 percent biomass in the predators, that seems impossible. How could 85 percent survive on 15 percent? ES: Well, imagine that you have two gears of a watch, a big one and a small one. The big one is moving very slowly, and the small one is moving fast. That's basically it. The animals at the lower parts of the food chain, they reproduce very fast; they grow really fast; they produce millions of eggs. Up there, you have sharks and large fish that live 25, 30 years. They reproduce very slowly; they have a slow metabolism; and, basically, they just maintain their biomass. So, basically, the production surplus of these guys down there is enough to maintain this biomass that is not moving. They are like capacitors of the system. CA: That's very fascinating. So, really, our picture of a food pyramid is just — we have to change that completely. ES: At least in the seas. What we found in coral reefs is that the inverted pyramid is the equivalent of the Serengeti, with five lions per wildebeest. And on land, this cannot work. But at least on coral reefs are systems where there is a bottom component with structure. We think this is universal. But we have started studying pristine reefs only very recently. CA: So the numbers you presented really are astonishing. You're saying we're spending 35 billion dollars now on subsidies. It would only cost 16 billion to set up 20 percent of the ocean as marine protected areas that actually give new living choices to the fishermen as well. If the world was a smarter place, we could solve this problem for negative 19 billion dollars. We've got 19 billion to spend on health care or something. ES: And then we have the under-performance of fisheries that is 50 billion dollars. So again, one of the big solutions is have the World Trade Organization shifting the subsidies to sustainable practices. CA: Okay, so there's a lot of examples that I'm hearing out there about ending this subsidies madness. So thank you for those numbers. The last one's a personal question. A lot of the experience of people here who've been in the oceans for a long time has just been seeing this degradation, the places they saw that were beautiful getting worse, depressing. Talk to me about the feeling that you must have experienced of going to these pristine areas and seeing things coming back. ES: It is a spiritual experience. We go there to try to understand the ecosystems, to try to measure or count fish and sharks and see how these places are different from the places we know. But the best feeling is this biophilia that E.O. Wilson talks about, where humans have this sense of awe and wonder in front of untamed nature, of raw nature. And there, only there, you really feel that you are part of a larger thing or of a larger global ecosystem. And if it were not for these places that show hope, I don't think I could continue doing this job. It would be just too depressing. CA: Well, Enric, thank you so much for sharing some of that spiritual experience with us all. Thank you. ES: Thank you very much.	今天我將談兩點一是我們失去了什麼二是怎樣找回它讓我從這兒開始這是我的底線這裡是地中海海岸沒有魚，只有光禿禿的岩石有許多喜歡吃海藻的海膽當我第一次在西班牙的地中海海岸潛入水下看到的是這樣的景象假設﹐一個外星人來到地球我們就叫他喬喬會看到什麼?如果喬在一個珊瑚礁潛水這個外星人會看到很多但是不大可能的是﹐ 喬會跳入一片原始珊瑚礁未被人類造訪過﹐ 有著許多珊瑚、鯊魚、鱷魚海牛、石班魚、海龜等等所以﹐ 喬很可能看到的是在這一部份﹐ 圖中綠色的部份這是一個極端的例子: 死亡的珊瑚充滿微生物的粘稠水域和海蜇潛水者所處的區域很可能是今天世界上大部份珊瑚礁存在的地方珊瑚所剩不多﹐而且長滿藻類大量的細菌大型動物已經消失這也是大部份海洋科學家所看到的這是他們的底線, 是他們認為正常的狀態因為我們依靠水肺潛水開始的現代科學遠遠晚於人類對海洋生態系統的破壞 所以我現在要讓各位登上時間旅行機器我們要向左邊,向過去出發去看看海洋往日的情形讓我們從這臺時間旅行機器開始,蘭島我們在這裡進行了一系列的國家地理探險這片海洋是屬於基里巴斯共和國的一個群島跨越赤道包括好幾個無人居住的尚未發展漁業的原始島嶼以及幾個有人居住的島嶼讓我們首先從聖誕島開始-這裡有5千居民大部份珊瑚礁已經死亡大部份珊瑚也已經死亡,長滿海藻大部份魚類都比我們用來計算他們數量的鉛筆還小我們在此地潛水了250小時那是2005年我們沒有見到一條鯊魚這個地方是庫克船長於1777年發現的他描述了大量鯊魚的存在撕咬他們小船上的舵和槳當時他們正在著陸 讓我們把時光再倒回去一些范寧島有兩千五百居民這裡的珊瑚狀況稍好﹐有大量小魚許多潛水員會認為這里可以算是天堂了在這裡你可以看到是大部份佛羅裡達國家海洋保護區的景象許多人認為這裡非常非常美麗如果這是你的底線的話。如果我們回到一個地方比如巴爾米拉環礁我同傑里米.傑克遜幾年前去過珊瑚狀況更好, 還有鯊魚你每次潛水都會看到鯊魚這在今天的珊瑚礁很少見但是﹐如果我們把時光指針撥回到200年或500年以前那麼我們到達的地方珊瑚非常健康,光彩奪目呈現出各種壯觀的造型這里捕食動物最為顯眼你每次潛水都能看到25到50條鯊魚 我們從這些地方了解了什麼?這些地方是我們所認為的自然狀態這就是我們所稱的生物量金字塔如果我們把一處珊瑚礁所有的魚類集中起來稱重這就是我們所期望的﹕大部份的生物量處在食物鏈的下端,他們是食草魚比如食藻類的鸚哥魚,鱘魚然後是吃浮遊生物的魚類,小雀鯛等漂浮在水中的小生物然後還有數量較少些的食肉魚類以及數量更少的處在頂端的鯊魚,大型笛鯛,大型石班魚但是這是一個後果這種觀點是一個後果是研究被破壞的珊瑚礁之後得出的結論 當我們到達原始珊瑚礁以後我們意識到自然世界是上下顛倒的金字塔是倒過來的頂層佔生物量的大部份在某些地方﹐高達85%比如現在受到保護的金曼礁一個好消息就是﹐除了它有更多的捕食魚﹐它也有更多其他各種生物這些框框的面積更大這裡有更多鯊魚,更大的笛鯛群也有更大的草食魚群這種鸚哥魚好像海洋里的山羊他們清理珊瑚礁;上面所有看得見的生物他們都吃,這樣保持珊瑚礁的清潔使珊瑚可以更新換代這些地方不僅這些古老的﹐原始的水域不僅有大量魚類他們還有其他重要的生態系統的成份,比如巨蛤巨蛤在瀉湖里成片生長多達每平方米20或25只他們已經從所有有人居住的珊瑚礁消失了他們過濾水質他們保持水質清潔防止微生物和病原體滋生 但是﹐目前全球變暖如果我們因為這些珊瑚礁受法律保護或者因為他們位置偏遠而停止捕魚,那會很好但是如果海水長時間變暖珊瑚死亡那麼這些魚類這些捕食魚類能起什麼作用呢?我們所看到的是就在這裡在97、98年的厄爾尼諾氣候期間海水溫度過高太長時間很多珊瑚出現白化現象進而死亡在聖誕島﹐ 食物網被簡化大型動物消失珊瑚還未恢復到從前范寧島的珊瑚也是一樣但是在這裡你可以看到這個巨大的鹿角珊瑚死掉了魚吃掉了藻類因此藻類的領域稍微低一些但是如果你去巴爾米拉環礁那裡有更多的食草魚類那裡的珊瑚很乾淨他們正在逐漸恢復如果你去原始海洋那邊那裡的珊瑚會白化嗎?他們也會有白化發生,但是他們能更迅速地恢復食物網越完整,越完備越複雜就越堅韌﹐生態系統從氣候變暖的短期影響下恢復的可能性就越大這是好消息。所以我們有必要恢復生態結構我們需要保證生態系統的所有部份齊全這樣生態系統能夠應對全球變暖的影響 如果我們必須重設底線如果我們要把生態系統推回到左邊我們怎樣才能做到?有好幾種途徑一種顯而易見的辦法是海洋保護區特別是“不取”保護區我們設立這些區域使得海洋生物能夠修養生息讓我回到前面那張地中海的圖片這是我的底線。這是我兒時所看到的情景。與此同時我正在看雅克.庫斯托的電視節目他展示了海洋的博大﹐豐富﹐和多樣性我以為這種豐富性是屬于熱帶海洋的特性地中海是一個資源缺乏的海洋但是,我當時根本不知道一直到我第一次在一處海洋保護區潛水這就是我看到的﹐大量的魚類 幾年後﹐5到7年左右魚兒回來了, 他們吃海膽然後海藻也開始生長先是一小片海藻只有筆記本電腦大小的面積上你可以找到一百多種海藻種類大部份極其微小幾百種魚類,小動物成為魚類的食物就這樣整個生態體系得以恢復這個地方﹐馬代群島海洋保護區只有94公頃大它帶給當地經濟6百萬歐元的收入超過漁業收入的20倍佔全部旅遊業收入的百分之八十八所以這些保護區不僅有助於生態系統還能幫助到居民他們也能夠受益於生態系統 那麼讓我來總結一下“不取”的保護區有什麼好處當我們保護起這些地方我們把它們跟附近未保護地區比較一下﹐這就是結果生物種類增加21%假設你有一千種物種那麼在海洋保護區你會期待多出200種這是很大的差別生物體的體積也會增加三分之一那麼你看到的魚會有這麼大豐富度﹐即一平方米內魚的數量幾乎增加170%生物量-這是最讓人驚嘆的變化 -會增加4.5倍平均5到7年之後在一些地方,保護區內的生物量會增加10倍 那麼我們有這麼多的生物在保護區內生長﹐它們的作用是什麼?它們繁殖。這是群種生物學常識如果我們不殺死魚,它們就會活得久一些它們會長得更大,繁殖更多后代無脊椎動物也是一樣。這是一個例子這是卵鞘是生活在智利海岸的一種蝸牛下的這是它們在海底產卵的數量在保護區之外你根本看不到這個一平方米有一百三十萬個卵這是在蝸牛數量眾多的海洋保護區裡面所以這些生物體繁殖這些幼蟲擴散出保護區它們都會擴散出去保護區之外的居民也因此受益這是巴哈馬群島的拿騷石班魚保護區之內有大量的石班魚而且離保護區越近石班魚越多漁民捕到的也越多你可以看到保護區的邊界因為漁船都在那裡排隊所以存在效益擴散保護區的效益超越了它的邊界給週圍的居民帶來益處與此同時保護區在保護整個棲息地,增強堅韌性 我們現在所有的或者一個沒有保護區的世界就像一個轉帳帳戶我們總是在取款而從不存款保護區就像儲蓄帳戶我們有不動用的原則它會產生回報﹐不論是社會,經濟,還是生態的回報如果我們考慮到保護區生物量的增長那就如同利滾利,對吧再看兩個例子保護區如何對居民有利這是肯尼亞漁民每天捕到的魚的數量好多年以來在這個地方沒有保護,完全放任自流當最具破壞性的捕魚工具圍網被取締後漁民們能夠補到更多的魚如果減少捕魚﹐ 你反而能夠捕到更多的魚如果我們在此基礎上加上“不取”保護區漁民們仍然可以在保護區週邊少捕魚但能賺到更多錢 另一個例子﹕在中美洲礁的伯利茲生長的拿騷石班魚這是石班魚交配石班魚在十二月和一月月圓前後匯合一周過去它們常常成千上萬的聚集在一起,三萬條這麼大的石班魚聚集在一公頃大的水域內﹐匯合在一處漁民們知道這個規律;他們捕殺到石班魚耗盡當我2000年第一次到那兒去那裡僅剩下三千條石班魚漁民們獲准捕每年產卵魚群的30%簡單的分析一下用不著高深的理論就可以明白﹐如果每年捕殺30%你的漁業不久就會垮掉隨之而來的是整個種群的繁殖力消亡這在加勒比海的很多地方發生過他們一年賺四千美元這是整個漁場的總收入好幾艘漁船的收入如果做個經濟分析預測一下如果魚群沒有滅絕會怎樣如果我們只帶入20個潛水員一年只潛水一個月收入將會超過以前的20倍而且長遠來講更有可持續性 那麼我們現在有多少海洋保護區?如果這個主意很好﹐如果這是個顯而易見的好主意﹐我們現在有多少了呢?你已經聽到了不到百分之一的海洋受到保護我們現在正在接近百分之一多虧了對查戈群島的保護這其中的很小一部分是完全禁止捕魚的科學研究建議至少百分之二十的海洋應當受到保護百分之二十到五十是達到一系列生物多樣性﹐魚類優化﹐和堅韌性目標的估計範圍 那麼﹐這可能嗎? 人們會問﹕這要花多少錢?讓我們來考慮一下我們目前花費在漁業補貼上的數字每年350億美元很多這些補貼投入到破壞性捕魚行為中去有兩個估算顯示了創造一個覆蓋百分之二十海洋的保護區網絡所需的成本那將只是我們目前所支付的一小部份政府仍然發補貼給即將垮掉的漁場人們因為漁場關閉而失業創造一個保護區網將會直接提供給超過一百萬人就業機會再加上間接的工作以及間接的福利 那麼我們應該怎樣做?如果顯而易見這樣的儲蓄帳戶對環境和人類都有好處我們為什麼不把20%到50%的海洋保護起來呢?我們如何達到目標?有兩個途徑到達一個不痛不癢的辦法是設立大型的保護區像查戈斯群島這個辦法的問題是我們只能在無人居住﹐沒有社會衝突的地方設立大型保護區這些地方政治成本低經濟成本也低我們當中一些人﹐在座的﹐和其他地方的一些組織正在進行這項工作 但是世界上其他的海岸線怎麼辦?人們在那裡生活或者以捕魚為生有三個主要原因能解釋我們為什麼沒有成千上萬個小型保護區第一個原因是人們不知道海洋保護區的作用漁民們有強烈的自我保護意識當涉及到管理或關閉一個水域,即使面積很小第二﹐ 治理不合理因為世界各地的沿海社區沒有權力監督設立保護區和執行管理所牽扯的資源自上而下的等級結構導致人們等待政府部門的到來這很沒有成效。 政府也沒有充足的資源 下面引入第三個原因我們之所以沒有更多的保護區是因為錯誤的資金模式非政府組織和政府花費大量的時間﹐精力和資源通常在少數幾個很小的地區這樣海洋保護和沿海地區的保護就成為政府或慈善資金的下水道沒有可持續性所以出路是解決這三個問題第一﹐ 我們需要開展全球宣傳運動來號召本地社區和政府設立比現有的更好的“不取”保護區這是儲蓄帳戶而非沒有存款的轉帳帳戶第二﹐我們需要重新設計我們的治理方式使保育工作分權化使保育工作不用依靠非政府組織或者政府部門來做而由地方社區開展正如菲律賓和一些其他地區所作的那樣第三﹐這點非常重要我們需要開發新的商業模式慈善下水道作為設立保護區的唯一方式是沒有可持續性的我們非常需要開發商業模式使沿海保育成為一種投資因為我們已經知道這些海洋保護區能提供社會﹐生態﹐和經濟效益 我想用最後用一個想法作結那就是沒有一個單獨的組織能夠拯救海洋過去曾經有過很多的競爭我們需要建設一種新的合作關係真正富有協作精神以便我們尋找互補而不是替代繼續走我們的老路賭注太大了那麼讓我們開始努力吧。謝謝。 (掌聲) 克里斯.安德森﹕ 謝謝你,恩里克 恩里克﹕謝謝 克﹕你非常出色地把這些信息綜合在一起首先﹐你的金字塔﹐倒金字塔顯示捕食魚類佔生物群的85%這看起來似乎不可能85%如何靠15%生存呢? 假如你有一隻有兩個齒輪的手錶一個大齒輪﹐一個小齒輪大齒輪轉的速度慢﹐而小齒輪速度快基本上就是這個道理食物鏈上位置較低的動物繁殖速度很快﹔生長得快﹔產數百萬卵在食物鏈的上端,鯊魚﹐以及其他大型魚類壽命可達25﹐30年他們繁殖得很慢﹔ 新陳代謝緩慢他們的生物量基本上維持穩定那麼﹐食物鏈下端的產能過剩足夠來維持食物鏈上端不變的生物量他們就好像整個系統的電容器 克﹕真是太奇妙了那麼實際上﹐ 我們想象中的食物金字塔需要徹底改變 恩﹕至少在海洋里是這樣的我們在珊瑚礁發現的倒金字塔就好比在塞倫蓋蒂國家公園獅子與角馬的比例是5比1在陸地上這是不可能存在的但至少在珊瑚礁這樣的生態體系底層部份有這樣的結構我們認為倒金字塔很普遍但是我們對原始珊瑚礁的研究最近才開始 克﹕你所舉出的數字令人震驚你說我們花350億美元用于補貼而只需160億元我們就可以把20%的海洋設立為海洋保護區這實際上也能夠提供給漁民新的生活選擇如果這個世界是一個更智慧的地方我們可以少花190億美元解決這個問題我們可以把這190億美元花在衛生保健或其他地方 恩﹕另外業績不佳的漁場也是個問題那又是500億美元因此﹐解決問題的一個重要辦法是由世界貿易組織把補貼轉到更可持續的做法上去 克﹕我聽到許多結束這種不合理補貼的例子感謝你給出的數字最後我想問一個個人問題許多在座的人們在海上工作多年他們目睹了環境惡化﹐過去曾經美麗的地方正在變糟﹐讓人沮喪請描述一下當你造訪這些原始海域看到它們正在恢復你所經歷的感受 恩﹕那是一種心靈體驗我們去那裡試圖了解生態系統試圖測量魚和鯊魚的大小和數目我們看到這些地方和我們熟知的其他地方不同但是最棒的感受是愛德華威爾遜所說的人和其他生物的感情紐帶當人類面對未經改造過的﹐原始的自然那種敬畏和驚奇之心只有在那裡﹐你真的能體會到你是某種更大事物的一部分是一個全球生態體系的一部分如果沒有這些昭示希望的地方我很可能不會繼續從事這項工作那將會非常令人沮喪 克﹕恩里克﹐感謝你和我們分享你的心靈感受。謝謝。 恩﹕非常感謝。
