Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_sanderson_pictures_new_york_before_the_city	"The substance of things unseen. Cities, past and future. In Oxford, perhaps we can use Lewis Carroll and look in the looking glass that is New York City to try and see our true selves, or perhaps pass through to another world. Or, in the words of F. Scott Fitzgerald, ""As the moon rose higher, the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that once flowered for Dutch sailors' eyes, a fresh green breast of the new world."" My colleagues and I have been working for 10 years to rediscover this lost world in a project we call The Mannahatta Project. We're trying to discover what Henry Hudson would have seen on the afternoon of September 12th, 1609, when he sailed into New York harbor. And I'd like to tell you the story in three acts, and if I have time still, an epilogue. So, Act I: A Map Found. So, I didn't grow up in New York. I grew up out west in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, like you see here, in the Red Rock Canyon. And from these early experiences as a child I learned to love landscapes. And so when it became time for me to do my graduate studies, I studied this emerging field of landscape ecology. Landscape ecology concerns itself with how the stream and the meadow and the forest and the cliffs make habitats for plants and animals. This experience and this training lead me to get a wonderful job with the Wildlife Conservation Society, which works to save wildlife and wild places all over the world. And over the last decade, I traveled to over 40 countries to see jaguars and bears and elephants and tigers and rhinos. But every time I would return from my trips I'd return back to New York City. And on my weekends I would go up, just like all the other tourists, to the top of the Empire State Building, and I'd look down on this landscape, on these ecosystems, and I'd wonder, ""How does this landscape work to make habitat for plants and animals? How does it work to make habitat for animals like me?"" I'd go to Times Square and I'd look at the amazing ladies on the wall, and wonder why nobody is looking at the historical figures just behind them. I'd go to Central Park and see the rolling topography of Central Park come up against the abrupt and sheer topography of midtown Manhattan. I started reading about the history and the geography in New York City. I read that New York City was the first mega-city, a city of 10 million people or more, in 1950. I started seeing paintings like this. For those of you who are from New York, this is 125th street under the West Side Highway. (Laughter) It was once a beach. And this painting has John James Audubon, the painter, sitting on the rock. And it's looking up on the wooded heights of Washington Heights to Jeffrey's Hook, where the George Washington Bridge goes across today. Or this painting, from the 1740s, from Greenwich Village. Those are two students at King's College — later Columbia University — sitting on a hill, overlooking a valley. And so I'd go down to Greenwich Village and I'd look for this hill, and I couldn't find it. And I couldn't find that palm tree. What's that palm tree doing there? (Laughter) So, it was in the course of these investigations that I ran into a map. And it's this map you see here. It's held in a geographic information system which allows me to zoom in. This map isn't from Hudson's time, but from the American Revolution, 170 years later, made by British military cartographers during the occupation of New York City. And it's a remarkable map. It's in the National Archives here in Kew. And it's 10 feet long and three and a half feet wide. And if I zoom in to lower Manhattan you can see the extent of New York City as it was, right at the end of the American Revolution. Here's Bowling Green. And here's Broadway. And this is City Hall Park. So the city basically extended to City Hall Park. And just beyond it you can see features that have vanished, things that have disappeared. This is the Collect Pond, which was the fresh water source for New York City for its first 200 years, and for the Native Americans for thousands of years before that. You can see the Lispenard Meadows draining down through here, through what is TriBeCa now, and the beaches that come up from the Battery, all the way to 42nd St. This map was made for military reasons. They're mapping the roads, the buildings, these fortifications that they built. But they're also mapping things of ecological interest, also military interest: the hills, the marshes, the streams. This is Richmond Hill, and Minetta Water, which used to run its way through Greenwich Village. Or the swamp at Gramercy Park, right here. Or Murray Hill. And this is the Murrays' house on Murray Hill, 200 years ago. Here is Times Square, the two streams that came together to make a wetland in Times Square, as it was at the end of the American Revolution. So I saw this remarkable map in a book. And I thought to myself, ""You know, if I could georeference this map, if I could place this map in the grid of the city today, I could find these lost features of the city, in the block-by-block geography that people know, the geography of where people go to work, and where they go to live, and where they like to eat."" So, after some work we were able to georeference it, which allows us to put the modern streets on the city, and the buildings, and the open spaces, so that we can zoom in to where the Collect Pond is. We can digitize the Collect Pond and the streams, and see where they actually are in the geography of the city today. So this is fun for finding where things are relative to the old topography. But I had another idea about this map. If we take away the streets, and if we take away the buildings, and if we take away the open spaces, then we could take this map. If we pull off the 18th century features we could drive it back in time. We could drive it back to its ecological fundamentals: to the hills, to the streams, to the basic hydrology and shoreline, to the beaches, the basic aspects that make the ecological landscape. Then, if we added maps like the geology, the bedrock geology, and the surface geology, what the glaciers leave, if we make the soil map, with the 17 soil classes, that are defined by the National Conservation Service, if we make a digital elevation model of the topography that tells us how high the hills were, then we can calculate the slopes. We can calculate the aspect. We can calculate the winter wind exposure — so, which way the winter winds blow across the landscape. The white areas on this map are the places protected from the winter winds. We compiled all the information about where the Native Americans were, the Lenape. And we built a probability map of where they might have been. So, the red areas on this map indicate the places that are best for human sustainability on Manhattan, places that are close to water, places that are near the harbor to fish, places protected from the winter winds. We know that there was a Lenape settlement down here by the Collect Pond. And we knew that they planted a kind of horticulture, that they grew these beautiful gardens of corn, beans, and squash, the ""Three Sisters"" garden. So, we built a model that explains where those fields might have been. And the old fields, the successional fields that go. And we might think of these as abandoned. But, in fact, they're grassland habitats for grassland birds and plants. And they have become successional shrub lands, and these then mix in to a map of all the ecological communities. And it turns out that Manhattan had 55 different ecosystem types. You can think of these as neighborhoods, as distinctive as TriBeCa and the Upper East Side and Inwood — that these are the forest and the wetlands and the marine communities, the beaches. And 55 is a lot. On a per-area basis, Manhattan had more ecological communities per acre than Yosemite does, than Yellowstone, than Amboseli. It was really an extraordinary landscape that was capable of supporting an extraordinary biodiversity. So, Act II: A Home Reconstructed. So, we studied the fish and the frogs and the birds and the bees, the 85 different kinds of fish that were on Manhattan, the Heath hens, the species that aren't there anymore, the beavers on all the streams, the black bears, and the Native Americans, to study how they used and thought about their landscape. We wanted to try and map these. And to do that what we did was we mapped their habitat needs. Where do they get their food? Where do they get their water? Where do they get their shelter? Where do they get their reproductive resources? To an ecologist, the intersection of these is habitat, but to most people, the intersection of these is their home. So, we would read in field guides, the standard field guides that maybe you have on your shelves, you know, what beavers need is, ""A slowly meandering stream with aspen trees and alders and willows, near the water."" That's the best thing for a beaver. So we just started making a list. Here is the beaver. And here is the stream, and the aspen and the alder and the willow. As if these were the maps that we would need to predict where you would find the beaver. Or the bog turtle, needing wet meadows and insects and sunny places. Or the bobcat, needing rabbits and beavers and den sites. And rapidly we started to realize that beavers can be something that a bobcat needs. But a beaver also needs things. And that having it on either side means that we can link it together, that we can create the network of the habitat relationships for these species. Moreover, we realized that you can start out as being a beaver specialist, but you can look up what an aspen needs. An aspen needs fire and dry soils. And you can look at what a wet meadow needs. And it need beavers to create the wetlands, and maybe some other things. But you can also talk about sunny places. So, what does a sunny place need? Not habitat per se. But what are the conditions that make it possible? Or fire. Or dry soils. And that you can put these on a grid that's 1,000 columns long across the top and 1,000 rows down the other way. And then we can visualize this data like a network, like a social network. And this is the network of all the habitat relationships of all the plants and animals on Manhattan, and everything they needed, going back to the geology, going back to time and space at the very core of the web. We call this the Muir Web. And if you zoom in on it it looks like this. Each point is a different species or a different stream or a different soil type. And those little gray lines are the connections that connect them together. They are the connections that actually make nature resilient. And the structure of this is what makes nature work, seen with all its parts. We call these Muir Webs after the Scottish-American naturalist John Muir, who said, ""When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find that it's bound fast by a thousand invisible cords that cannot be broken, to everything in the universe."" So then we took the Muir webs and we took them back to the maps. So if we wanted to go between 85th and 86th, and Lex and Third, maybe there was a stream in that block. And these would be the kind of trees that might have been there, and the flowers and the lichens and the mosses, the butterflies, the fish in the stream, the birds in the trees. Maybe a timber rattlesnake lived there. And perhaps a black bear walked by. And maybe Native Americans were there. And then we took this data. You can see this for yourself on our website. You can zoom into any block on Manhattan, and see what might have been there 400 years ago. And we used it to try and reveal a landscape here in Act III. We used the tools they use in Hollywood to make these fantastic landscapes that we all see in the movies. And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue. So we would take the landscape and we would build up the topography. We'd lay on top of that the soils and the waters, and illuminate the landscape. We would lay on top of that the map of the ecological communities. And feed into that the map of the species. So that we would actually take a photograph, flying above Times Square, looking toward the Hudson River, waiting for Hudson to come. Using this technology, we can make these fantastic georeferenced views. We can basically take a picture out of any window on Manhattan and see what that landscape looked like 400 years ago. This is the view from the East River, looking up Murray Hill at where the United Nations is today. This is the view looking down the Hudson River, with Manhattan on the left, and New Jersey out on the right, looking out toward the Atlantic Ocean. This is the view over Times Square, with the beaver pond there, looking out toward the east. So we can see the Collect Pond, and Lispenard Marshes back behind. We can see the fields that the Native Americans made. And we can see this in the geography of the city today. So when you're watching ""Law and Order,"" and the lawyers walk up the steps they could have walked back down those steps of the New York Court House, right into the Collect Pond, 400 years ago. So these images are the work of my friend and colleague, Mark Boyer, who is here in the audience today. And I'd just like, if you would give him a hand, to call out for his fine work. (Applause) There is such power in bringing science and visualization together, that we can create images like this, perhaps looking on either side of a looking glass. And even though I've only had a brief time to speak, I hope you appreciate that Mannahatta was a very special place. The place that you see here on the left side was interconnected. It was based on this diversity. It had this resilience that is what we need in our modern world. But I wouldn't have you think that I don't like the place on the right, which I quite do. I've come to love the city and its kind of diversity, and its resilience, and its dependence on density and how we're connected together. In fact, that I see them as reflections of each other, much as Lewis Carroll did in ""Through the Looking Glass."" We can compare these two and hold them in our minds at the same time, that they really are the same place, that there is no way that cities can escape from nature. And I think this is what we're learning about building cities in the future. So if you'll allow me a brief epilogue, not about the past, but about 400 years from now, what we're realizing is that cities are habitats for people, and need to supply what people need: a sense of home, food, water, shelter, reproductive resources, and a sense of meaning. This is the particular additional habitat requirement of humanity. And so many of the talks here at TED are about meaning, about bringing meaning to our lives in all kinds of different ways, through technology, through art, through science, so much so that I think we focus so much on that side of our lives, that we haven't given enough attention to the food and the water and the shelter, and what we need to raise the kids. So, how can we envision the city of the future? Well, what if we go to Madison Square Park, and we imagine it without all the cars, and bicycles instead and large forests, and streams instead of sewers and storm drains? What if we imagined the Upper East Side with green roofs, and streams winding through the city, and windmills supplying the power we need? Or if we imagine the New York City metropolitan area, currently home to 12 million people, but 12 million people in the future, perhaps living at the density of Manhattan, in only 36 percent of the area, with the areas in between covered by farmland, covered by wetlands, covered by the marshes we need. This is the kind of future I think we need, is a future that has the same diversity and abundance and dynamism of Manhattan, but that learns from the sustainability of the past, of the ecology, the original ecology, of nature with all its parts. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"看不見的事物的本質。城市的過去和未來。在牛津，我們或許可以將路易斯．卡洛爾做為借鏡，藉由紐約市反映出的現況，並試著看清我們真實的自我，或許還能穿越到另一個世界。或者，就像史考特‧費茲傑羅所說的，“當明月冉冉升起時，那些微不足道的房屋慢慢消逝，直到我逐漸意識到這座古老島嶼當年曾讓荷蘭水手驚艷，是新世界中的一塊翠綠寶石。"" 我和我的同事花了10年功夫去重現這個消失的世界，這則是“Mannahatta計畫”的主要任務。我們試圖再現Henry Hudson在1609年9月12日下午，駕船駛入紐約港時看到的景象。我把故事分成三個部分，如果講完還有時間，就再做個總結。 第一部分：發現地圖。我不是在紐約長大的。我的家鄉在内華達州山區西部，大家可以看到，就在紅岩峽谷。由於小時候的成長經歷讓我愛上了自然景觀。因此，當我在念研究所時，我選擇了當時新興的景觀生態學作為我的研究方向。景觀生態學主要是在研究溪流、草地、森林和懸崖如何構成適合動植物生存的環境。這段研究過程讓我在國際野生生物保護協會找到了一份很棒的工作，主要致力於保護世界各地的野生生物和自然環境。在過去的十年内，我到過40多個國家，去觀察美洲豹、熊、大象、老虎和犀牛。 每次旅行結束後，我就會回到紐約，在周末時，我就會跟大多數的遊客一樣，登上帝國大廈頂樓，俯看這片土地，和其生態系統，然後我就會想：“這片土地是如何為動植物提供合適的居住地？如何為人們提供合適的居住地？”我也會去時代廣場，而當我看着廣告牆上的美女時，我會想，為何没有人看看她們身後的歷史人物呢。我還會去中央公園，看著那裡起伏的地形和曼哈頓中城高聳的地形形成了鮮明對比。 於是我開始研讀紐約市的歷史和地理。我發現紐約市是世界上第一座超级大城，在1950年居住人口就破千萬。我開始研究這樣的畫作。在坐來自紐約的聽眾，我要告訴你們，這裡是西城高速公路下的125街。(笑聲)這裡曾是一片海灘。而圖中有一位名叫John James Audubon的畫家，坐在礁石上。圖中上方長滿樹木的高地是華盛頓高地。Jeffrey’s Hook燈塔的方向，即是今天喬治華盛頓大橋横跨之處。 或是這幅1740年描繪格林威治村的畫作。圖中有兩位國王學院（即現今的哥倫比亞大學）的學生坐在山丘上俯瞰山谷。但是當我到格林威治村去找這座山丘時。卻早就找不到了。就連那棵棕櫚樹也找不到。不過那裡怎麼會有一棵棕櫚樹？(笑聲) 但就在尋訪過程中，我發現到一張地圖，就是螢幕上大家看到的這張圖。它存在於地理資訊系统中，因此我就可以進行缩放。這張地圖並非繪製於哈德遜時期，而是在170年後美國獨立革命時，由英國軍事製圖師所繪製，當時英軍占領了紐約市。這是一張令人讚嘆的地圖，現存於英國Kew的國家檔案館中。整張地圖長10英尺，寬3.5英尺。 如果我把曼哈頓下城放大，大家就可以看到美國獨立革命末期紐約市的範圍。這裡是Bowling Green，而這裡是百老匯。這邊則是市府公園。所以，當時的城市就只有到市府公園。再往上看，景觀就消失了。這裡是Collect 水塘，它是紐約市最初200年的飲用水源，在此之前它滋養了美國原住民數千年。你們可以看到Lispenard草地，它流過此處，即Tribeca的現址，而當時的海灘則從Battery一路延伸到42街。 這張地圖是為了軍事用途而繪製的。所以他們繪製了道路、建築物以及他們建造的防禦工事。除此之外，他們還繪製了具有生態價值的事物，當然也具有軍事價值，像是山丘、沼澤和溪流。這裡則是Richmond山丘和Minetta Water它曾經穿過格林威治村。Gramercy公園的沼澤在這。這是Murray高地。這則是200年前位於Murray高地上的Murray’s House。這邊是時代廣場，兩條河川交會在此形成一片濕地也就是在時代廣場的位置，當時是美國獨立戰爭末期。 我是在一本書上看到這張了不起的地圖。當時我想：“如果我可以對這張地圖作地理坐標參照，如果我可以把這張地圖放在今日紐約市地圖的格線上，那我就能找到這座城市曾有的景觀，一塊塊拼湊出大家熟悉的地貌，像是我們上班的地點、居住的地方，以及常去的餐廳。”在經過一番努力之後，我們完成了地理座標參照，我們就可以把現今城市的街道、建築物和開放空間放上去，然後我們就能放大Collect 池塘的所在地，我們可以將Collect 池塘和溪流數位化，以看出這些地點在現今城市中的實際位置。有趣的地方在於找出和原先地形相對應的位置。 關於這張地圖我有另一個想法。假如我們移除街道、建築，和開放空間，我們就可以重複使用這張地圖。如果我們移除18世紀的景觀，我們便能穿越時空，讓它回到最初的基本生態，例如山丘、溪流、基礎水文、海岸線、海灘等，也就是構成生態地景的基本要素。 然後，假若我們再加上像地質地圖、床岩地質地圖、地表地質、冰川遺跡，或是土壤地圖，含有17種經由國家土壤保育署所界定的土壤類型，如果我們用數值高程模型，描繪出代表山丘高度的地形，我們便能計算出坡度，並算出方位，還能算出冬季風向，算出吹過地景的冬季季風走向。地圖上白色的部份是冬季季風吹不到的地方。 我們編輯所有關於當時美國原住民，Lenape部落居住地的資訊並且繪製他們可能駐足處的機率地圖紅色區塊是全曼哈頓裡最適合人類居住的地區，因為最靠近河流，和可捕魚的港口，也可抵擋冬季刺骨寒風的侵襲。我們都知道Lenape聚落曾居住之處，就在Collect 池塘旁。我們也得知他們在那種植花草樹木，他們一手打造了美麗且生氣蓬勃的穀物、豆類、及南瓜花園，也就是“三姐妹”花園。 所以，我們製作了這個模型，來解釋這些花園的可能位置。以及舊時園地，和後來新園地的位置我們也許會以為它們早已荒蕪但事實上，它們已變成草原鳥類和植物的棲息地。並進而演變為灌木林地，所有的一切都集合於生態社區地圖中。所以有55種不同生態系統共同存在於曼哈頓。你可以把他們看成是各有特色的鄰近社區，就像是Tribeca, Upper East Side和Inwood一樣 —只是它們是森林、溼地、海洋生態社區，以及沙灘。 55種生態系統算是非常的多。以單位面積來看，曼哈頓每英畝擁有比優勝美地國家公園、黃石國家公園，安波沙里國家公園更多的生態社區。這真的是非常不可思議的環境可以讓如此多種的生態社區同時共存。 第二部份：重現家園。所以我們開始研究所有曾出現在曼哈頓的生物，像是魚、蛙、鳥、蜜蜂光是在曼哈頓就曾有85種不同種類的魚，新英格蘭黑琴雞(the Heath hens), 現在早已絕種，還有曾經在溪流四處可見的河狸和黑熊，和美國原住民，要研究他們如何善用和看待這片土地。我們所需作的就是繪製他們的棲息地點分布圖。 例如，他們去哪覓食?他們去哪擷取水源? 他們都居住在哪?以及他們去哪取得繁殖資源?對生態學家來說，這一切的交集就是所謂的棲息處。但對大多數人來說，這則是他們稱為家的地方。所以我們閱讀田野指南，我想你們書架上應該都會有這一類的書，例如河狸的棲息處是""蜿蜒而平靜的小溪，兩側有白楊木，赤楊和柳樹，靠近水源處。""這就是海狸的理想家園。 所以我們製作了一張對照表左邊是海狸，上面則是牠們的棲息地點：溪流，白楊木，赤楊和柳樹。彷彿這些是可以用來預測能在哪遇見海狸的地圖。同理，牟式龜需要的是潮濕的草地，昆蟲和陽光充足的地方。山貓需要兔子，海狸還有洞穴。由此可知，海狸是山貓的獵物。但海狸也有所需的食物。把兩邊連結起來之後，我們就可以創造出一個這些物種的棲息地關係網。 再來，我們了解你可以成為一名海狸專家，不過你還可以研究白楊需要什麼。白楊需要火和乾燥土壤。同樣的，你也可以查查潮濕草地需要些什麼。它需要海狸來製造溼地，也許你還能探討其他東西。但當提到陽光充足的地點時，你會問說，""那它需要什麼呢?"" 不是棲息地本身。而是什麼樣的條件讓它充滿陽光是火嗎? 還是乾燥土壤?然後你將所有的資料逐一放在欄列各1000行的表格上後。我們就能把這個生態網路具體化，就像社群網路一樣。 而這就是所有在曼哈頓的動植物及其所需一切的棲地網路圖，我們就能回溯到當時地質的情況，和網路核心當時的時空。我們稱它為Muir Web。如果你放大來看的話就會像這樣。每一點都代表不同的物種，支流，或是土壤種類。圖中的灰色細線則將它們全部串連起來。因為這些連結而讓大自然變得更有適應力。而其結構正是使自然運作的力量，由此便可一目了然。命名Muir Webs是為紀念蘇格蘭裔美國自然學家John Muir他曾說過，""當我們試著辨識某些事物時，便會發現在其背後，有數以千計無形且密不可分的線索牽動著它，且和宇宙的一切連結。"" 所以我們將Muir webs運用到地圖上。假設我們到了第85和86街，以及Lexinton大道和第三大道之間，或許在這裡曾經有條溪流穿過。也許這種樹曾經在此成長茁壯。還有這些花，地衣，苔蘚，蝴蝶，溪流裡悠游的魚兒，以及樹上的鳥兒。這種山林響尾蛇也可能曾經在此棲息。美洲黑熊也許經過此處。美國原住民也可能落腳於此。而我們將這些資料運用於此。 你可以在我們的網站上看到這些資料。你可以點選曼哈頓任一角落，就可以看到400年前該地區的生態分布。我們藉此嘗試將當時的地景呈現出來這是第三部分。我們利用好萊塢的特效製作出如同電影中令人讚嘆的美景。 我們試著運用3D技術將第三大道具體化。我們先取得地景，然後建立地形。再把土壤和水域分布圖放上去，並調亮地景。下一步就是放上生態社區分布圖。並將生物種類一一加入。因此我們到實地拍攝影像，飛越時代廣場上空，遠眺哈德遜河，等待哈德遜的到來。藉由這項科技，我們可以製作出絕佳的地理座標參照景觀。基本上，我們可以將曼哈頓任一窗外的景色轉換成400年前的樣貌。 從東河往Murray高地望去，可以看到聯合國的現址。這是從哈德遜河上游俯瞰的景色，我們可以看到左邊是曼哈頓，紐澤西在右邊，遠方則是大西洋。而這是從時代廣場上空鳥瞰的景觀，往東邊看過去，河狸水塘就在那邊。我們也能看到Collect 池塘，Lispenard 沼澤就在後方。和美國原住民開拓的園地。我們能由今日紐約市的地理位置圖看見這個城市的前身。當你在看""法律與秩序(影集)""中的律師們走上階梯時，其實他們正從紐約法院往下走一路走往Collect 池塘，我是說假如是在400年前。 這些影像是我的好友兼同事，Mark Boyer的傑作，他今天也在現場。我想請大家給他鼓掌，向他的傑出表現致意。(掌聲) 因為科學和視覺化效果的結合，我們才能創造出像這樣的圖像。就像照鏡子時所看到相反的影像。雖然演講時間有限，但我還是希望大家都能了解Mannahatta是個非常奇妙的地方。你們所看到圖中的左邊因為它的生態多元性，所以和右邊息息相關。而其中所蘊含的活力正是現今世界所需。 但我不希望你們以為我討厭大城市，事實上剛好相反。我愛紐約市的多元化及活力，還有高密度的人口和人與人之間緊密的連結。我把它們看成是一體兩面。很像是路易斯‧卡洛爾在""愛麗絲鏡中奇緣""中所描述的我們可以同時將兩者放在心中作比較，它們其實是同一個地方，而城市是無法脫離大自然的。這也是未來在建造大都市時必須要知道的。 所以現在我要簡單做個總結，不是關於過去，而是關於往後的400年，我們都了解城市是人們的居住地，並供給人們生活所需：像是家的感覺，食物，水和住所，還有繁殖的資源，以及一種感覺這是只有人類居住地才特別增加的需求。TED絕大多數的演講都是關於""意義""，關於如何為生命帶來意義，在各種不同方面，透過科技，藝術，科學，我想我們多半都把焦點放在生命的意義，而忽略了生活的現實面，像是食物，水還有居住處，以及扶養小孩所需。 所以，我們該如何展望未來的紐約市？假想有天我們到麥迪遜廣場公園，而公園裡面完全沒有車子，只有自行車，廣大的森林和潺潺流水，而非下水道和排水溝？試想如果上東城充滿著綠色植物，穿越市中心的溪流和供應用電的風車？或想像紐約市大都會區這樣擁有1200萬人口的都市，但未來光是曼哈頓區，可能就有1200萬人口居住在僅占紐約市36%的精華地區，其間遍佈田地，溼地，還有我們所需的沼澤地。 這是我們所期望的未來，這樣的未來擁有相同的生物多樣性豐富性及曼哈頓特有的活力，但同時又能從過去學習永續發展之道，無論是在生態，原生態，或是關於自然的一切。非常感謝大家(掌聲)"
