Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_liu_why_ordinary_people_need_to_understand_power	"I'm a teacher and a practitioner of civics in America. Now, I will kindly ask those of you who have just fallen asleep to please wake up. (Laughter) Why is it that the very word ""civics"" has such a soporific,  even a narcoleptic effect on us? I think it's because the very  word signifies something exceedingly virtuous,  exceedingly important, and exceedingly boring. Well, I think it's the responsibility of people like us, people who show up for gatherings like this in person or online, in any way we can, to make civics sexy again, as sexy as it was during the American Revolution, as sexy as it was during the Civil Rights Movement. And I believe the way we make civics sexy again is to make explicitly about the teaching of power. The way we do that, I believe, is at the level of the city. This is what I want to talk about today, and I want to start by defining some terms and then I want to describe the scale of the problem I think we face and then suggest the ways that I believe cities can be the seat of the solution. So let me start with some definitions. By civics, I simply mean the art of being a pro-social, problem-solving contributor in a self-governing community. Civics is the art of citizenship, what Bill Gates Sr. calls simply showing up for life, and it encompasses three things: a foundation of values, an understanding of the systems that make the world go round, and a set of skills that allow you to pursue goals and to have others join in that pursuit. And that brings me to my definition of power, which is simply this: the capacity to make others do what you would have them do. It sounds menacing, doesn't it? We don't like to talk about power. We find it scary. We find it somehow evil. We feel uncomfortable naming it. In the culture and mythology of democracy, power resides with the people. Period. End of story. Any further inquiry not necessary and not really that welcome. Power has a negative moral valence. It sounds Machiavellian inherently. It seems inherently evil. But in fact power is no more inherently good or evil than fire or physics. It just is. And power governs how any form of government operates, whether a democracy or a dictatorship. And the problem we face today, here in America in particular, but all around the world, is that far too many people  are profoundly illiterate in power — what it is, who has it, how it operates, how it flows, what part of it is visible,  what part of it is not, why some people have it,  why that's compounded. And as a result of this illiteracy, those few who do understand how power operates in civic life, those who understand how a bill becomes a law, yes, but also how a friendship  becomes a subsidy, or how a bias becomes a policy, or how a slogan becomes a movement, the people who understand those things wield disproportionate influence, and they're perfectly happy to fill the vacuum created by the ignorance of the great majority. This is why it is so fundamental for us right now to grab hold of this idea of power and to democratize it. One of the things that is so profoundly exciting and challenging about this moment is that as a result of this power illiteracy that is so pervasive, there is a concentration of knowledge, of understanding, of clout. I mean, think about it: How does a friendship become a subsidy? Seamlessly, when a senior government official decides to leave government and become a lobbyist for a private interest and convert his or her relationships into capital for their new masters. How does a bias become a policy? Insidiously, just the way that stop-and-frisk, for instance, became over time a bureaucratic numbers game. How does a slogan become a movement? Virally, in the way that the Tea Party, for instance, was able to take the ""Don't Tread on Me"" flag from the American Revolution, or how, on the other side, a band of activists could take a magazine headline, ""Occupy Wall Street,"" and turn that into a global meme and movement. The thing is, though, most people aren't looking for and don't want to see these realities. So much of this ignorance, this civic illiteracy, is willful. There are some millennials, for instance, who think the whole business is just sordid. They don't want to have anything to do with politics. They'd rather just opt out and engage in volunteerism. There are some techies out there who believe that the cure-all for any power imbalance or power abuse is simply more data, more transparency. There are some on the left who think power resides only with corporations, and some on the right who think power resides only with government, each side blinded by their selective outrage. There are the naive who believe that good things just happen and the cynical who believe that bad things just happen, the fortunate and unfortunate alike who think that their lot is simply what they deserve rather than the eminently alterable result of a prior arrangement, an inherited allocation, of power. As a result of all of this creeping fatalism in public life, we here, particularly in America today, have depressingly low levels of civic knowledge, civic engagement, participation, awareness. The whole business of politics has been effectively subcontracted out to a band of professionals, money people, outreach people, message people, research people. The rest of us are meant to feel like amateurs in the sense of suckers. We become demotivated to learn more about how things work. We begin to opt out. Well, this problem, this challenge, is a thing that we must now confront, and I believe that when you have this kind of disengagement, this willful ignorance, it becomes both a cause and a consequence of this concentration of opportunity of wealth and clout that I was describing a moment ago, this profound civic inequality. This is why it is so important in our time right now to reimagine civics as the teaching of power. Perhaps it's never been more important at any time in our lifetimes. If people don't learn power, people don't wake up, and if they don't wake up, they get left out. Now, part of the art of practicing power means being awake and having a voice, but it also is about having an arena where you can plausibly practice deciding. All of civics boils down to the simple question of who decides, and you have to play that out in a place, in an arena. And this brings me to the third point that I want to make today, which is simply that there is no better arena in our time for the practicing of power than the city. Think about the city where you live, where you're from. Think about a problem in the common life of your city. It can be something small, like where a street lamp should go, or something medium like which library should have its hours extended or cut, or maybe something bigger, like whether a dilapidated waterfront should be turned into a highway or a greenway, or whether all the businesses in your town should be required to pay a living wage. Think about the change that you want in your city, and then think about how you would get it, how you would make it happen. Take an inventory of all the forms of power that are at play in your city's situation: money, of course, people, yes, ideas, information, misinformation, the threat of force, the force of norms. All of these form of power are at play. Now think about how you would activate or perhaps neutralize these various forms of power. This is not some Game of Thrones empire-level set of questions. These are questions that play out in every single place on the planet. I'll just tell you quickly about two stories drawn from recent headlines. In Boulder, Colorado, voters not too long ago approved a process to replace the private power company, literally the power company, the electric company Xcel, with a publicly owned utility that would forego profits and attend far more to climate change. Well, Xcel fought back, and Xcel has now put in play a ballot measure that would undermine or undo this municipalization. And so the citizen activists in Boulder who have been pushing this now literally have to fight the power in order to fight for power. In Tuscaloosa, at the University of Alabama, there's an organization on campus called, kind of menacingly, the Machine, and it draws from largely white sororities and fraternities on campus, and for decades, the Machine has dominated student government elections. Well now, recently, the Machine has started to get involved in actual city politics, and they've engineered the election of a former Machine member, a young, pro-business recent graduate to the Tuscaloosa city school board. Now, as I say, these are just two examples drawn almost at random from the headlines. Every day, there are thousands more like them. And you may like or dislike the efforts I'm describing here in Boulder or in Tuscaloosa, but you cannot help but admire the power literacy of the players involved, their skill. You cannot help but reckon with and recognize the command they have of the elemental questions of civic power — what objective, what strategy, what tactics, what is the terrain, who are your enemies, who are your allies? Now I want you to return to thinking about that problem or that opportunity or that challenge in your city, and the thing it was that you want to fix or create in your city, and ask yourself, do you have command of these elemental questions of power? Could you put into practice effectively what it is that you know? This is the challenge and the opportunity for us. We live in a time right now where in spite of globalization or perhaps because of globalization, all citizenship is ever more resonantly, powerfully local. Indeed, power in our time is flowing ever faster to the city. Here in the United States, the national government has tied itself up in partisan knots. Civic imagination and innovation and creativity are emerging from local ecosystems now and radiating outward, and this great innovation, this great wave of localism that's now arriving, and you see it in how people eat and work and share and buy and move and live their everyday lives, this isn't some precious parochialism, this isn't some retreat into insularity, no. This is emergent. The localism of our time is networked powerfully. And so, for instance, consider the ways that strategies for making cities more bike-friendly have spread so rapidly from Copenhagen to New York to Austin to Boston to Seattle. Think about how experiments in participatory budgeting, where everyday citizens get a chance to allocate and decide upon the allocation of city funds. Those experiments have spread from Porto Alegre, Brazil to here in New York City,  to the wards of Chicago. Migrant workers from Rome to Los Angeles and many cities between are now organizing to stage strikes to remind the people who live in their cities what a day without immigrants would look like. In China, all across that country, members of the New Citizens' Movement are beginning to activate and organize to fight official corruption and graft, and they're drawing the ire of officials there, but they're also drawing the attention of anti-corruption activists all around the world. In Seattle, where I'm from, we've become part of a great global array of cities that are now working together bypassing government altogether, national government altogether, in order to try to meet the carbon reduction goals of the Kyoto Protocol. All of these citizens, united, are forming a web, a great archipelago of power that allows us to bypass brokenness and monopolies of control. And our task now is to accelerate this work. Our task now is to bring more and more people into the fold of this work. That's why my organization, Citizen University, has undertaken a project now to create an everyman's curriculum in civic power. And this curriculum starts with this triad that I described earlier of values, systems and skills. And what I'd like to do is to invite all of you to help create this curriculum with the stories and the experiences and the challenges that each of you lives and faces, to create something powerfully collective. And I want to invite you in particular to try a simple exercise drawn from the early frameworks of this curriculum. I want you to write a narrative, a narrative from the future of your city, and you can date it, set it out one year from now, five years from now, a decade from now, a generation from now, and write it as a case study looking back, looking back at the change that you wanted in your city, looking back at the cause that you were championing, and describing the ways that that change and that cause came, in fact, to succeed. Describe the values of your fellow citizens that you activated, and the sense of moral purpose that you were able to stir. Recount all the different ways that you engaged the systems of government, of the marketplace, of social institutions, of faith organizations, of the media. Catalog all the skills you had to deploy, how to negotiate, how to advocate, how to frame issues, how to navigate diversity in conflict, all those skills that enabled you to bring folks on board and to overcome resistance. What you'll be doing when you write that narrative is you'll be discovering how to read power, and in the process, how to write power. So share what you write, do you what you write, and then share what you do. I invite you to literally share the narratives that you create on our Facebook page for Citizen University. But even beyond that, it's in the conversations that we have today all around the world in the simultaneous gatherings that are happening on this topic at this moment, and to think about how we can become one another's teachers and students in power. If we do that, then together we can make civics sexy again. Together, we can democratize democracy and make it safe again for amateurs. Together, we can create a great network of city that will be the most powerful collective laboratory for self-government this planet has ever seen. We have the power to do that. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我是在美國教公民教育的老師，也是公民教育的實踐者。現在，請那些剛才睡著的人打起精神。（笑聲）為什麼人們一聽到「公民教育」這個名詞就昏昏欲睡，甚至如患了發作性睡眠病一般？我想是因為這個名詞象徵著非常崇高的道德，非常重要，和相當無聊。我認為，我們大家，來到這種聚會的人們，以及在網上觀看的人，有責任以力所能及的任何方式，讓公民教育再度煥發生機，如美國革命時,或如美國民權運動時期那樣生機勃勃。我相信讓公民教育再度煥發生機的途徑是明確的落實於關於權力的教育。我認為要實現它，關鍵是從城市這一層面入手。這就是今天我想跟大家談論的主题。我想從解釋一些概念開始，然後我會闡述我們目前面臨的問題，進而提出解決辦法，即城市是解決問題的根本。那麼，我們由一些定義開始吧。所謂公民教育，簡單的說是在一個自主管轄的社區，作為一名關愛社會、幫忙解決問題的貢獻者的藝術。公民教育是身為一個公民的藝術，這正是比爾‧蓋茨之父所謂的「為生活出席」它包含三個方面內容：價值觀的基礎、對於讓世界正常運轉的體系的理解、以及一套讓你追尋目標並讓他人跟隨你的願景的技能。 這就引到了我對權力的定義，一個簡單的定義如下：讓他人按照你的意願去做事情的能力。這聽起來有些邪惡，不是嗎？我們從來都不喜歡談論權力，我們覺得這個名詞可怕，而且有些邪惡。連去定義它，都會讓我們感覺不自在。在民主的文化和神話裡，權力掌握在人的手裡。句號。就是如此而已！沒有必要進一步探討權力，因為它不那麼受歡迎。權力違背道德價值觀，而且它本質上就有些權謀術的味道，似乎本質上就是邪惡的。事實上，權力在本質上不分好壞對錯，就像自然界的火、物理原理那樣，權力只是權力，僅此而已。權力支配著任何政府運作的所有形式，不管是民主的政府，或獨裁的政府。我們今天面臨的問題，在美國尤甚，也是個全球性的問題，即太多太多的人對權力幾乎一無所知對於權力是什麼，誰擁有權力，它如何運作，如何流轉，權力的哪部分為人所知，哪部分鮮為人知，為何有些人擁有權力，為何權力總是交錯繁雜。這種一無所知的結果就是，那些極少數了解權力是如何在公民生活中運作的人，那些了解如何讓一個法案變成一個法律條文，如何將友誼轉化為財富，如何讓一個偏見變成一項政策，或如何讓一個口號發展成一場運動的人，正是了解這些事情的人造成不成比例的影響力，而且他們極其樂於填補大多數民眾的無知造成的空洞。 這就是為什麼掌握權力的意義並將其大眾化對我們當今這麼重要。另外有一件令人極度振奮又極具挑戰性的事情，那就是由於這種對權力一無所知的狀態，如此廣泛的存在，形成了一個知識、理解和影響力的集中。你想想：如何將友誼轉化為財富？非常順暢地，當一個政府高級官員決定辭掉政府的工作，成為一名私有企業的說客，將他或她的人脈資源轉化為他們的新雇主的財富。偏見如何轉變為一項政策？不知不覺地，就如同攔截盤查，後來變成官僚的數字遊戲。一個口號如何變成一場運動？如病毒般，就如同在美國革命中扛起「不要踐踏我」的旗幟的茶黨身上。或者，另一方面，一群激進分子從刊在雜誌上的頭條，「占領華爾街」開始，發展成為一場全球性的運動。然而，大多數人並不主動尋找、也不期望看到這些真實現狀。所以，這個無知，對公民權力的無知，很大程度上是有意的。例如一些千禧世代的人們，認為整個政界都是肮髒的，他們不想與政治有任何交集，他們甘願退出，而致力於社會志願服務。也有一些極客們認為解決一切權力失衡或權力濫用的萬能良藥，在於更多的數據，和更大的透明度。一些左翼人士認為權力只掌控在企業手裡，而右翼人士卻認為權力只掌控在政府手裡。他們都被各自選擇性的憤怒蒙蔽了雙眼。也有些很天真的人相信，美好的事情自然會來臨，也有憤世嫉俗的人，相信糟糕的事情注定會發生。還有那些幸運的或不幸運的人認為他們的命數已定，而不是藉由事先安排和一種權力的繼承分配顯然可以改變的。 由於對於公權力的這種無可救藥的宿命論，尤其在當今的美國，我們對於公民知識、公民參與，公民意識知之甚少。政界裡裡外外都已「轉包」給專家、富豪、圈外人、掌握資訊的人、研究人员。剩下的人注定感覺如外行一般，是不折不扣的傻瓜。我們變得沒有動力去探究事情怎樣運作，我們開始選擇不參與。 這個問題，這個挑戰，現在我們必須直視。我相信，如果你一直冷漠下去，一直有意地視而不見，這種冷漠就會成為我剛才所說的財富、勢力的聚集的原因和結果，造成嚴重的公民不平等。這就是為什麼以權力的教育來理解公民教育是如此重要、迫在眉睫。也許從沒有像在今天這麼重要過。如果人們不懂得權力，人們不覺醒，如果人們不覺醒，就會被遺棄。施展權力的藝術，部分在於 保持警醒，並有自己的見解，也在於擁有一個可以施展決斷力的舞台。所有公民教育的問題都可歸結為這一簡單問題：誰來決策？因此，你必須有一個地方、有一個舞台來施展。這就引到了我今天想強調的第三點，當今而言，沒有比城市 更適合作為練習施展權力的舞台。想一下你生活的城市，你來自的城市，想一個你的城市裡日常生活中的問題，可以是小事情，比如路燈應安裝在何處；或是稍微大一點的事情，比如某個圖書館開放時間該延長還是縮短；或是更大的事情，比如廢棄的海濱是否應改建為高速路或綠化帶，或者當地所有的公司是否需支付足以生活的工資。考慮一下你希望你的城市要做出的改變，然後考慮你如何實現它，如何讓它成為現實。列出你所在的城市裡所有形式的權力：金錢，當然了。人，是的。理念、資訊、錯誤的資訊、武力的威脅、規範的力量，所有形式的權力都在發揮著作用。現在考慮一下你如何激發或調和這些不同形式的權力。這不是《權力的游戲》中帝國層面的問題，這是地球上任何地方都 在上演的問題。下面我快速地講兩個故事，這兩個故事都來自於近期頭條新聞。在科羅拉多州的博爾德，選民在不久前通過了一項決議，將一個私有的電力公司，即艾克賽爾能源公司，轉變為公有制，不謀利潤，而會更多關注氣候變化。艾克賽爾公司回擊抵抗，目前，它在通過一種投票的方式，試圖干擾或駁回這次公有化運動。因此推動這項運動的博爾德的積極人士，現在不得不對抗權力來爭取電力。在塔斯卡盧薩，阿拉巴馬大學，校園裡有個組織聽起來有些邪惡，叫「機器」。其成員多大來自學校白人姐妹會和兄弟會。數十年來，「機器」控制了學生的政府選票。最近，「機器」開始參與到真正的城市政治中。他們主導了一個前「機器」成員的參選，讓這位剛畢業的商業掛帥的年輕人進入塔斯卡盧薩市教育董事會。如我前面所述，這只是從近期新聞頭條中隨意摘取的兩個故事。每天都有類似的數以千計的例子。無論你喜不喜歡我剛剛描述的發生在博爾德和塔斯卡盧薩的事情，你都不得不欣賞他們施展權力的素養和技巧。你也不得不考慮到並且意識到他們掌握公民權力的一些最基本的問題——目的是什麼、策略是什麼、戰術是什麼、戰場是什麼、誰是敵人、誰是戰友？ 現在，讓我們回過頭，考慮你的城市中的問題、機會、挑戰，還有你期望在你的城市中解決的事情或創造的事物。問問你自己，你是否熟稔這些問題，這些權力的最基本的問題？你能有效地將你知道的東西付諸實踐，達到你的目的嗎？這對於我們是挑戰，也是機會。 在我們如今生活的年代，即使朝著全球化發展，也許正因為全球化進程，市民交互影響的程度更深，無一例外，尤其在本地。確實，當今的權力正以更快的速度匯聚到城市。在美國，中央政府囿於黨派之爭，公民的設想、創新力、創造力正在當地的圈子中產生，並向外輻射，而且這股本土化的偉大創造力和偉大浪潮，正洶涌而來。你可從人們吃飯、工作、社交、購物、交通等日常生活的點滴中看到。這不是矯揉造作的偏狹，這不是退卻到狹隘思維，不是的。這是正在發生的。當今的時代，本土化正強有力地進行。比如說，看看那些致力於讓城市更適合於自行車通行的理念吧，這些理念擴散得如此迅速，從哥本哈根，到紐約，到奧斯丁，到波士頓，到西雅圖。再想想「參與式預算」的實踐，每天市民都有機會分配和决定市政資金的流向。這些實踐已經從巴西的阿雷格里港推廣到紐約和芝加哥。從羅馬到洛杉磯，還有其間的其他城市的移民工人，正組織罷工，來提醒那些在其城市居住的人們，要他們設想一下，在沒有移民的城市裡一天的生活會是什麼樣。在中國，全國範圍內，中國新公民運動的成員正在組織行動，反對政府官員貪污腐敗。他們激怒了官員，但他們也吸引了全世界的反貪腐組織的目光。在我來自的地方——西雅圖，我們成為了全球一系列城市中的一員。這一系列城市團結在一起，繞開政府，繞開中央政府，努力實現京都議定書規定的減少碳排放量的目標。所有這些市民，聯合在一起，形成一個網絡，雖地域分散，力量卻集中，讓我們可以繞開壟斷權力的控制。 我們現在的任務是加速這一進程，我們現在的任務是吸引越來越多的人加入到我們的行動中。這也是我的組織——公民大學在進行的一個專案的原因。這個案子致力於為所有人提供公民權力的課程。這個課程以我剛才所述的三方面為起點，即價值觀、系統和能力。我想邀請你們所有人，幫助我建立這個課程，請你們分享故事和經歷，以及生活中的挑戰，來匯聚成強大的智慧的結晶。我想請你們參與一項實踐練習，這是一個簡單的實踐，來自這項課程的初步框架。我想請你寫下一段故事，一段來自你的未來城市的故事。你來決定這個城市來自多遠的未來，可以是一年後，五年後，十年後，也可以是一代以後，如一個案例研究，從那時回過頭來看現在，看現在的你希望你的城市做出怎樣的改變，看現在的你在鼎力支持著什麼事業，並描述一下你期望的改變和你從事的事業如何走向成功；描繪一下你所鼓舞的市民們擁有的價值觀，以及你所激發出的人們的品行道德；叙述一下你參與到政府體制、市場環境、社會機構、宗教組織、媒體的不同的方式；將你施展的技能分門別類，如何協商、如何鼓舞、如何分析問題、如何在矛盾中調和不同的意見，正是這些技能讓你帶領人們參與其中，克服困難。你寫下這段故事，與此同時，你會發現如何解讀權力，如何用書面的形式表達權力。請分享你寫下的故事，並將你的故事付諸實踐，進而分享你的所作所為。我請你們把你們的故事以文字的形式分享到到公民大學的臉書網站上。不僅於此，此時此刻世界各地正在進行的和我們一樣的集會中，在談論公民教育這個話題。考慮一下我們如何學習權力，做彼此的老師和學生。如果我們同心協力，就能讓公民教育再度煥發生機。我們一起，能讓民主思想大眾化，讓外行人也覺得安全。我們一起，能創造出一個非常龐大的城市網，它會是地球上前所未有的最強大的自主管轄的實驗室。我們有能力實現它。非常感謝你們。（掌聲）
