Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_dishman_take_health_care_off_the_mainframe	"If you think about the phone — and Intel has tested a lot of the things I'm going to show you, over the last 10 years, in about 600 elderly households — 300 in Ireland, and 300 in Portland — trying to understand: How do we measure and monitor behavior in a medically meaningful way? And if you think about the phone, right, it's something that we can use for some incredible ways to help people actually take the right medication at the right time. We're testing these kinds of simple sensor-network technologies in the home so that any phone that a senior is already comfortable with can help them deal with their medications. And a lot of what they do is they pick up the phone, and it's our system whispering to them which pill they need to take, and they fake like they're having a conversation with a friend. And they're not embarrassed by a meds caddy that's ugly, that sits on their kitchen table and says, ""I'm old. I'm frail."" It's surreptitious technology that's helping them do a simple task of taking the right pill at the right time. Now, we also do some pretty amazing things with these phones. Because that moment when you answer the phone is a cognitive test every time that you do it. Think about it, all right? I'm going to answer the phone three different times. ""Hello? Hey."" All right? That's the first time. ""Hello? Uh, hey."" ""Hello? Uh, who? Oh, hey."" All right? Very big differences between the way I answered the phone the three times. And as we monitor phone usage by seniors over a long period of time, down to the tenths of a microsecond, that recognition moment of whether they can figure out that person on the other end is a friend and we start talking to them immediately, or they do a lot of what's called trouble talk, where they're like, ""Wait, who is this? Oh."" Right? Waiting for that recognition moment may be the best early indicator of the onset of dementia than anything that shows up clinically today. We call these behavioral markers. There's lots of others. Is the person going to the phone as quickly, when it rings, as they used to? Is it a hearing problem or is it a physicality problem? Has their voice gotten more quiet? We're doing a lot of work with people with Alzheimer's and particularly with Parkinson's, where that quiet voice that sometimes shows up with Parkinson's patients may be the best early indicator of Parkinson's five to 10 years before it shows up clinically. But those subtle changes in your voice over a long period of time are hard for you or your spouse to notice until it becomes so extreme and your voice has become so quiet. So, sensors are looking at that kind of voice. When you pick up the phone, how much tremor are you having, and what is that like, and what is that trend like over a period of time? Are you having more trouble dialing the phone than you used to? Is it a dexterity problem? Is it the onset of arthritis? Are you using the phone? Are you socializing less than you used to? And looking at that pattern. And what does that decline in social health mean, as a kind of a vital sign of the future? And then wow, what a radical idea, we — except in the United States — might be able to use this newfangled technology to actually interact with a nurse or a doctor on the other end of the line. Wow, what a great day that will be once we're allowed to actually do those kinds of things. So, these are what I would call behavioral markers. And it's the whole field that we've been trying to work on for the last 10 years at Intel. How do you put simple disruptive technologies, and the first of five phrases that I'm going to talk about in this talk? Behavioral markers matter. How do we change behavior? How do we measure changes in behavior in a meaningful way that's going to help us with prevention of disease, early onset of disease, and tracking the progression of disease over a long period of time? Now, why would Intel let me spend a lot of time and money, over the last 10 years, trying to understand the needs of seniors and start thinking about these kinds of behavioral markers? This is some of the field work that we've done. We have now lived with 1,000 elderly households in 20 countries over the last 10 years. We study people in Rochester, New York. We go live with them in the winter because what they do in the winter, and their access to healthcare, and how much they socialize, is very different than in the summer. If they have a hip fracture we go with them and we study their entire discharge experience. If they have a family member who is a key part of their care network, we fly and study them as well. So, we study the holistic health experience of 1,000 seniors over the last 10 years in 20 different countries. Why is Intel willing to fund that? It's because of the second slogan that I want to talk about. Ten years ago, when I started trying to convince Intel to let me go start looking at disruptive technologies that could help with independent living, this is what I called it: ""Y2K + 10."" You know, back in 2000, we were all so obsessed with paying attention to the aging of our computers, and whether or not they were going to survive the tick of the clock from 1999 to 2000, that we missed a moment that only demographers were paying attention to. It was right around New Years. And that switchover, when we had the larger number of older people on the planet, for the first time than younger people. For the first time in human history — and barring aliens landing or some major other pandemic, that's the expectation from demographers, going forward. And 10 years ago it seemed like I had a lot of time to convince Intel to work on this. Right? Y2K + 10 was coming, the baby boomers starting to retire. Well folks, it's like we know these demographics here. This is a map of the entire world. It's like the lights are on, but nobody's home on this demographic Y2K + 10 problem. Right? I mean we sort of get it here, but we don't get it here, and we're not doing anything about it. The health reform bill is largely ignoring the realities of the age wave that's coming, and the implications for what we need to do to change not only how we pay for care, but deliver care in some radically different ways. And in fact, it's upon us. I mean you probably saw these headlines. This is Catherine Casey who is the first boomer to actually get Social Security. That actually occurred this year. She took early retirement. She was born one second after midnight in 1946. A retired school teacher, there she is with a Social Security administrator. The first boomer actually, we didn't even wait till 2011, next year. We're already starting to see early retirement occur this year. All right, so it's here. This Y2K + 10 problem is at our door. This is 50 tsunamis scheduled on the calendar, but somehow we can't sort of marshal our government and innovative forces to sort of get out in front of it and do something about it. We'll wait until it's more of a catastrophe, and react, as opposed to prepare for it. So, one of the reasons it's so challenging to prepare for this Y2K problem is, I want to argue, we have what I would call mainframe poisoning. Andy Grove, about six or seven years ago, he doesn't even know or remember this, in a Fortune Magazine article he used the phrase ""mainframe healthcare,"" and I've been extending and expanding this. He saw it written down somewhere. He's like, ""Eric that's a really cool concept."" I was like, ""Actually it was your idea. You said it in a Fortune Magazine article. I just extended it."" You know, this is the mainframe. This mentality of traveling to and timesharing large, expensive healthcare systems actually began in 1787. This is the first general hospital in Vienna. And actually the second general hospital in Vienna, in about 1850, was where we started to build out an entire curriculum for teaching med students specialties. And it's a place in which we started developing architecture that literally divided the body, and divided care into departments and compartments. And it was reflected in our architecture, it was reflected in the way that we taught students, and this mainframe mentality persists today. Now, I'm not anti-hospital. With my own healthcare problems, I've taken drug therapies, I've traveled to this hospital and others, many, many times. But we worship the high hospital on a hill. Right? And this is mainframe healthcare. And just as 30 years ago we couldn't conceive that we would have the power of a mainframe computer that took up a room this size in our purses and on our belts, that we're carrying around in our cell phone today, and suddenly, computing, that used to be an expert driven system, it was a personal system that we all owned as part of our daily lives — that shift from mainframe to personal computing is what we have to do for healthcare. We have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcare to a personal model of healthcare. We are obsessed with this way of thinking. When Intel does surveys all around the world and we say, ""Quick response: healthcare."" The first word that comes up is ""doctor."" The second that comes up is ""hospital."" And the third is ""illness"" or ""sickness."" Right? We are wired, in our imagination, to think about healthcare and healthcare innovation as something that goes into that place. Our entire health reform discussion right now, health I.T., when we talk with policy makers, equals ""How are we going to get doctors using electronic medical records in the mainframe?"" We're not thinking about how do we shift from the mainframe to the home. And the problem with this is the way we conceive healthcare. Right? This is a very reactive, crisis-driven system. We're doing 15-minute exams with patients. It's population-based. We collect a bunch of biological information in this artificial setting, and we fix them up, like Humpty-Dumpty all over again, and send them home, and hope — we might hand them a brochure, maybe an interactive website — that they do as asked and don't come back into the mainframe. And the problem is we can't afford it today, folks. We can't afford mainframe healthcare today to include the uninsured. And now we want to do a double-double of the age wave coming through? Business as usual in healthcare is broken and we've got to do something different. We've got to focus on the home. We've got to focus on a personal healthcare paradigm that moves care to the home. How do we be more proactive, prevention-driven? How do we collect vital signs and other kinds of information 24 by 7? How do we get a personal baseline about what's going to work for you? How do we collect not just biological data but behavioral data, psychological data, relational data, in and on and around the home? And how do we drive compliance to be a customized care plan that uses all this great technology that's around us to change our behavior? That's what we need to do for our personal health model. I want to give you a couple of examples. This is Mimi from one of our studies — in her 90s, had to move out of her home because her family was worried about falls. Raise your hand if you had a serious fall in your household, or any of your loved ones, your parents or so forth. Right? Classic. Hip fracture often leads to institutionalization of a senior. This is what was happening to Mimi; the family was worried about it, moved her out of her own home into an assisted living facility. She tripped over her oxygen tank. Many people in this generation won't press the button, even if they have an alert call system, because they don't want to bother anybody, even though they've been paying 30 dollars a month. Boomers will press the button. Trust me. They're going to be pressing that button non-stop. Right? Mimi broke her pelvis, lay all night, all morning, finally somebody came in and found her, sent her to the hospital. They fixed her back up. She was never going to be able to move back into the assisted living. They put her into the nursing home unit. First night in the nursing home unit where she had been in the same assisted living facility, moved her from one bed to another, kind of threw her, rebroke her pelvis, sent her back to the hospital that she had just come from, no one read the chart, put her on Tylenol, which she is allergic to, broke out, got bedsores, basically, had heart problems, and died from the fall and the complications and the errors that were there. Now, the most frightening thing about this is this is my wife's grandmother. Now, I'm Eric Dishman. I speak English, I work for Intel, I make a good salary, I'm smart about falls and fall-related injuries — it's an area of research that I work on. I have access to senators and CEOs. I can't stop this from happening. What happens if you don't have money, you don't speak English or don't have the kind of access to deal with these kinds of problems that inevitably occur? How do we actually prevent the vast majority of falls from ever occurring in the first place? Let me give you a quick example of work that we're doing to try to do exactly that. I've been wearing a little technology that we call Shimmer. It's a research platform. It has accelerometry. You can plug in a three-lead ECG. There is all kinds of sort of plug-and-play kind of Legos that you can do to capture, in the wild, in the real world, things like tremor, gait, stride length and those kinds of things. The problem is, our understanding of falls today, like Mimi, is get a survey in the mail three months after you fell, from the State, saying, ""What were you doing when you fell?"" That's sort of the state of the art. But with something like Shimmer, or we have something called the Magic Carpet, embedded sensors in carpet, or camera-based systems that we borrowed from sports medicine, we're starting for the first time in those 600 elderly households to collect actual kinematic motion data to understand: What are the subtle changes that are occurring that can show us that mom has become risk at falls? And most often we can do two interventions, fix the meds mix. I'm a qualitative researcher, but when I look at these data streams coming in from these homes, I can look at the data and tell you the day that some doctor prescribed them something that nobody else knew that they were on, because we see the changes in their patterns in the household. Right? These discoveries of behavioral markers, and behavioral changes are game changing, and like the discovery of the microscope because of our collecting data streams that we've actually never done before. This is an example in our TRIL Clinic in Ireland of — actually what you're seeing is she's looking at data, in this picture, from the Magic Carpet. So, we have a little carpet that you can look at your amount of postural sway, and look at the changes in your postural sway over many months. Here's what some of this data might look like. This is actually sensor firings. These are two different subjects in our study. It's about a year's worth of data. The color represents different rooms they are in the house. This person on the left is living in their own home. This person on the right is actually living in an assisted living facility. I know this because look at how punctuated meal time is when they are no longer in their particular rooms here. Right? Now, this doesn't mean that much to you. But when we look at these cycles of data over a longer period of time — and we're looking at everything from motion around different rooms in the house, to sort of micro-motions that Shimmer picks up, about gait and stride length — these streams of data are starting to tell us things about behavioral patterns that we've never understood before. You can go to ORCATech.org — it has nothing to do with whales, it's the Oregon Center for Aging and Technology — to see more about that. The problem is, Intel is still one of the largest funders in the world of independent living technology research. I'm not bragging about how much we fund; it's how little anyone else actually pays attention to aging and funds innovation on aging, chronic disease management and independent living in the home. So, my mantra here, my fourth slogan is: 10,000 households or bust. We need to drive a national, if not international, Framingham-type heart study of independent living technologies, where we have 10,000 elderly connected households with broadband, full medical characterization, and a platform by which we can start to experiment and turn these from 20-household anecdotal studies that the universities fund, to large clinical trials that prove out the value of these technologies. So, 10,000 households or bust. These are just some of the households that we've done in the Intel studies. My fifth and final phrase: I have tried for two years, and there were moments when we were quite close, to make this healthcare reform bill be about reform from something and to something, from a mainframe model to a personal health model, or to mean something more than just a debate about the public option and how we're going to finance. It doesn't matter how we finance healthcare. We're going to figure something out for the next 10 years, and try it. No matter who pays for it, we better start doing care in a fundamentally different way and treating the home and the patient and the family member and the caregivers as part of these coordinated care teams and using disruptive technologies that are already here to do care in some pretty fundamental different ways. The president needs to stand up and say, at the end of a healthcare reform debate, ""Our goal as a country is to move 50 percent of care out of institutions, clinics, hospitals and nursing homes, to the home, in 10 years."" It's achievable. We should do it economically, we should do it morally, and we should do it for quality of life. But there is no goal within this health reform. It's just a mess today. So, you know, that's my last message to you. How do we set a going-to-the-moon goal of dealing with the Y2K +10 problem that's coming? It's not that innovation and technology is going to be the magic pill that cures all, but it's going to be part of the solution. And if we don't create a personal health movement, something that we're all aiming towards in reform, then we're going to move nowhere. So, I hope you'll turn this conference into that kind of movement forward. Thanks very much. (Applause)"	如果你想想看，電話美商英特爾已經測試過很多東西是我馬上要表演給你們看的在過去的十年約600戶年長者家裡有300戶是在愛爾蘭，300戶是在波特蘭試著去理解我們要如何測量及監測行為以一個在醫療上有意義的方式？ 而且，如果你想想看電話，對它就是能讓我們以一些不可思議的方式來幫助人們，準確的在對的時間吃對的藥。我們正在測試這類簡單的在家裡的偵測網絡科技所以只要任何電話是一位年長者已能自在使用的就能幫助他們處理他們的用藥。而他們所要作的只是接起電話，而且是我們的系統在私底下悄悄告訴他們應該吃哪一種藥，假裝他們正在和朋友對話。他們不必為藥物像醜陋的桿弟感到尷尬佔在他們的廚房桌上而說『我老了、我很虛弱。』它可以是暗地裡的科技來幫助他們處理一簡單的任務在對的時間吃對的藥丸。 現在，我們還用這些電話來作一些很了不起的事。因為，就在你接起電話的那一刻，你接起的每一次都是一個認知測試。想想看，好吧？我現在就來接三次不同的電話。『哈囉？嗨～』好了嗎？那是第一次。『哈囉？痾，嗨～』『哈囉？痾，是哪位？喔，嘿。』可以嗎？相當大的差別。在我三次接電話的方式。所以當我們監測電話使用的方式由年長者經過很長的一段時間。不到十分之一微秒，那辨認的當下，看他們是否能辨認電話另一頭的那個人是朋友，而馬上開始和他們聊起天來，還是他們會有很多所謂的困惑對話，像是『等一下，你是誰？喔。』對吧？等待辨認的那一刻也許就會是最好的早期失智開始的指標，勝過任何現今臨床上的徵兆。 我們稱這些作行為指標。還有很多其它的行為。這個人去接電話時，當電話響起時，接電話的速度，是否和他之前一樣？這是有聽覺障礙，還是有行動障礙？他們發聲是否變得比較安靜？我們正在和很多人進行合作患有阿滋海默症的，還有特別是帕金森氏症，當漸趨安靜的發聲，有些時候表現在帕金森氏患者身上，有可能是最好的早期指標比帕金森氏症臨床症狀的出現，還要早個五到十年。而這些你聲音裡細微的、長時間的改變對你或你的配偶來說，可能很難去注意，直到它變得很極端而你的聲音也已經變得很安靜。 所以，偵測器就是在監測那種訊號。當你拿起話筒時，你有多麼顫抖？還有那是甚麼樣子，經過一段時間，那是一個怎樣的趨勢？你撥電話的按鍵時、是否比之前有更多的困難？是靈活度的問題？是關節炎的前兆？你有在使用電話嗎？你社交的是否比之前來得少？看著那個模式，那減少的趨勢，在社交健康上，代表的意義是甚麼？能否代表將來的一種生命徵象？接著，哇，這是個多麼創新的點子！我們，除了在美國，說不定還可以利用這項新穎的科技，確實與一位護士或醫師在電話的另一端互動。那世界將會變得多麼美好！等到有一天我們真的能夠完成這樣的事情時， 所以，這些就是我所謂的行為指標。而且，這是整個領域，我們已經試著要做的在過去十年，在英特爾。你要如何把一個簡單的破壞性科技，放在我接下來將要在這個演講裡討論到的五個階段中的第一個階段？行為指標很重要。我們要如何改變行為？我們要如何去測量行為的改變，以有意義的的方式，那是可以用來幫助我們預防疾病，疾病的早期發現，進而追蹤疾病在經過一段長時間的發展？ 只是，為什麼英特爾願意讓我花這麼多的時間跟金錢，在過去的十年，試著要了解年長者的需求且開始考慮這幾種行為指標？這是一些我們已經做過的田野訪查。我們現在已經住進一千戶年長者家裡在過去十年、在20個國家中。我們研究在紐約州羅徹斯特市的人。我們在冬天時，和他們住在一起，因為他們在冬天作的事，和他們使用醫療資源，以及他們參與社交活動的程度，是和夏天很不同的。如果他們髖關節骨折，我們就跟著他們，研究他們整個出院的經驗。如果其中有位家庭成員是他們健康照護網絡很重要的一員，那我們也會飛去並一起研究他們。 所以我們研究整體的健康觀感。一千位年長者在過去的十年，二十個不同的國家裡，為什麼英特爾願意贊助這研究？這是因為我將要討論的第二個口號。十年前，當我開始試著要說服英特爾，讓我著手尋找破壞性科技，可以幫助獨立生活的這是我給它取的名字：『Y2K + 10』 你也知道，回到2000年我們都著魔似的將注意力集中於我們電腦的老化，及它們是否能逃過時鐘滴答從1999到2000年我們也錯過一刻只有人口統計學家有在關心。那差不多是新年的時候。那個大轉變，也正是在這個星球上，我們的老年人人口數目大於年輕人人數的第一次。那也是第一次在人類歷史上，除了外星人登入或是其它重大的流行性疾病，人口統計學家預期要往前看。 且十年前我似乎有很多的時間去說服英特爾去做這。對吧？Y2K+10就要來了，嬰兒潮那一代也開始要退休。只是大家，這就像我們知道這些人口統計資料在這，這裡是一張全世界的地圖。這就像燈是亮的，但沒有人在這人口統計學的家Y2K + 10的問題裡。對吧？我的意思是，我們好像到了，可是我們沒有到這，而且我們沒有對它作任何事。 健康改革法案是幾乎完全忽略，那將要來的高齡潮的事實，以及它隱含著，不單只是我們該如何做，才能改變我們支付健康照護費用的方式，而是如何將照護以截然不同的方式傳遞。講白一點，它與我們息息相關。我的意思是你大概看過這些頭條。這是凱瑟琳凱西，她是第一位得到社會福利的嬰兒潮。這件事其實是在今年發生的。她及早退休。她是在1946年凌晨十二點後一秒出生的。一位退休的學校老師。那裡，她和社會福利的行政官一起，確實是第一位嬰兒潮，我們還不必等到明年，2011年。我們已經漸漸在今年看到提早退休的發生。 好吧，所以它來了。這Y2K+10的問題就在我們門口。這是50個海嘯安插在行事暦上。但不知怎麼的，我們就不大能整頓我們的政府，或以創新的力量，好像，走出去站在它前面並對它做點什麼事。我們會等到它已經一發不可收拾，才做出反應，而不是做好準備等著它。所以，其中一個為問題它之所以為Y2K作準備，這麼具挑戰性的原因在於，我要提出的，我們有我稱它作所謂的主體中毒。 安迪郭夫，約六、七年前，他可能也不知道或不記得這件事，在一篇財富雜誌的文章裡他用了這個詞『主體的健康照護』，而我將它延伸、擴大。當他看到這被寫在某個地方時，他就像這樣說『艾瑞克，這是一個很酷的概念。』我就像這樣『其實這原本是你的想法。你在財富雜誌裡說過的。我不過是延伸它而已。』你也知道，這就是所謂的主體。 這個跋涉前往的想法而且分時大型昂貴的健康照護系統，其實是開始於1787年。這是維也納第一個大眾醫院。而實際上維也納的第二個公共醫院，在約1850年，也正是我們開始打造整套課程來訓練醫學生專業的地方。另外，那也正是我們開始發展出架構將身體分區的地方，並將照護分成部門及科部。同時，這也反應在我們的架構上，它也反應在我們教學生的方式。這套主體的想法一直持續到今天。 現在，我不是反對醫院。以我自己的健康問題，我曾經接受藥物治療，我也拜訪這間和其它家醫院很多很多次。只是我們崇拜那高高在斜坡上的醫院，對吧？而這就是主體健康照護系統。也不過30多年前，我們不會去設想到，我們有能力將房間大小的電腦主機，縮到我們的皮包和皮帶的大小，讓我們今天能攜帶在手機裡帶著到處走。加上忽然，電腦的使用，那曾經是專家引導的系統，已是我們都擁有且成為我們日常生活一部份的個人系統。那個從大主機到個人電腦的轉變，正是我們必須對健康照護系統做的事。我們必須將主體的健康照護概念，轉換成健康照護的個人模式。 我們是執著於這種思考方式的。當英特爾在作全世界問卷調查，我們說『聯想健康照護。』第一個冒出來的字是醫師。第二個冒出來的是醫院。然後第三個是疾病或患病。對吧？我們聯想，在我們的想像裡，把健康照護及健康照護的創意想成是某個東西會進去那個地方。我們目前整個健康改革的討論，當我們和政策決策者談，等於我們要如何讓醫師在主體裡使用電子醫療紀錄？我們不是在想要如何從主體轉移到家裡。而這個問題的本身就在於這是我們設想健康照護的方式，對吧？ 這是一個非常具反應性，危機導向的系統。我們正在和病人作15分鐘的測試。這是以人口為根據的。我們在這人為的佈置裡收集一堆生物性資料。接著我們把他們修理回去，像是從頭到尾把杭弟唐帝（兒歌中從牆上跌下摔破的蛋）再做一次，然後把他們送回家，接著希望，我們能發傳單給他們，或是一個能互動的網頁，好讓他們能照著要求作，就不會回到主體裡。 但問題是，各位，我們今天付不起。我們不能支付今天主體醫療去涵括沒保險的部份。而且我們要做的是一個雙倍再加倍即將要來的高齡潮？健康照護產業和往常一樣是破產的所以我們必須作點甚麼是不一樣的。我們必須要把焦點放在家裡。 我們必須聚焦在個人的健康照護模式，把照顧移到家裡。我們要如何才能變得比較積極、預防性導向？我們要怎麼收集每天24小時的生命徵象和其它資訊？我們要怎麼取得一個個人的基準資料才知道哪一樣資料對你有用？我們要如何收集不單單是生物性資料，但行為資料、心理狀況的資料在家裡、屬於家裡以及在家裡附近的相關性的資料？還有我們要怎麼引導配合度，成為量身定做的照護計畫那是利用在我們周遭的這些高級科技，來改變我們的行為？那正是我們必須為我們的個人健康模式做的。 我要給你幾個例子。這是米咪從我們當中一個研究出來—在她九十幾歲時，必須搬出她家，因為她的家人擔心她會跌倒。如果你曾有嚴重的摔跤發生，請舉手。在你家裡，或任何你愛的人你的父母等人。對吧？很典型的。髖關節骨折常會導致年長者住進安養院。這就在米咪身上發生，家人擔心這件事，把她從自己家裡請出去，搬進輔助生活的機構。她被她的氧氣鋼筒絆倒。 很多在這個世代的人不會按下那個急救鈕，就算他們有緊急呼叫系統，因為他們不想要打擾到其他人，儘管他們已經支付一個月30美元。嬰兒潮的人會按下那個鈕。相信我。他們將會不停的按這那個鈕。對吧？ 米咪摔斷她的髖骨，整個晚上躺著，整個早上，直到終於有人走進來找到她，把她送到醫院。他們把她修理好。她再也不能夠搬回那個輔助生活的機構。他們將她送到照護之家。在照護之家的第一晚，就在她曾待過的同一個輔助生活機構，把她從一張床搬到另一張床，大概丟到她，又摔到她的髖骨，把她送回她才離開的醫院，沒人讀過她的病歷，給她泰諾（止痛藥），是她會過敏的，過敏發作，得到褥瘡，基本上有心臟問題，接著就死了原因是摔倒和病發症以及那存在著的錯誤。 現在，這件事最驚人的部份在於，這是我太太的祖母。現在，我是艾瑞克．迪許曼。我說英文。我為英特爾工作。我的收入優渥。我對跌倒及跌倒相關的傷害很有辦法。這是我在研究的領域。我能接近參議員及主要執行長們（CEOs）但我卻沒法停止這件事。如果你沒有錢，那會怎麼樣，如果你不說英文，或是沒有辦法接觸到能處理這種難以避免問題的資源？我們到底該如何預防大多數在第一時間摔跤的發生？ 讓我給你一個簡單的例子，是我們正在試著去做的這件事。我已隨時帶戴著一個小型我們稱做訊門的科技。這是一個研究的平台。他有加速度計。你可以插進一個三插的心電圖。它有各種不同的轉接頭和玩法有點像樂高，讓你可以在自然的情況、在真實的世界追蹤像是顫抖、步態、步長，還有這一類的東西。 問題是，我們對跌倒的了解，在今天，就像米咪，是在你跌倒的三個月後收到寄來的問卷，來自州政府問說『在你跌倒的時候你在做甚麼？』那已經是現有最好的情形。但是如果有類似訊門這樣的東西，或是我們有什麼像是神奇地毯的東西，能埋偵測器在地毯裡或是以相機為基礎的系統，那是我們從運動醫學借來的我們開始可以第一次在六百戶年長者家裡，蒐集實際的力學運動資料，以了解到底有什麼細微的改變，是正在發生的，且可以告訴我們媽媽已經成為會跌倒的高危險群。 還有，更常見的，我們可以做兩種介入，處理醫療的混亂。我是一位質性的研究員，但是，當我看著這些加進來的資料庫，那是從這些家裡出來的，我能看著那資料並告訴你是哪一天某醫師開了某些藥，那是沒有其他人知道他們正在服用的。因為我們看到改變的趨勢是在那家裡。對吧？這些行為指標的發現，和行為改變都是改變的遊戲，好比顯微鏡的發明，因為我們收集的資料庫是我們之前都從來沒做過的。 這是我們在愛爾蘭喜爾診所的一個例子...其實你真正看到的是，她正在看資料在這張照片裡從神奇地毯來的。所以，我們有一張小地毯讓你可以看你自己姿勢晃動的程度，再看你姿勢晃動程度經過幾個月的改變。這裡是一些資料大概的樣子。這是實際上偵測器在發送訊號。 這是我們實驗中的兩位不同的個案。差不多是累積一整年的資料。顏色代表著他們現在所在房子裡不同的房間。這個左邊的人正住在他自己的房子裡。這在右邊的人正實際住在一個輔助生活機構。我之所以知道這，是因為你看用餐時間是多麼的準時當他們不再住在自己特定的房間時，對吧？現在，這可能對你來說沒有很大的意義，但是當我們看這些週期性的資料經過一段較長的時間，而且我們看的是所有的東西，從在房子裡不同房間的動作，到一些訊門偵測到的微動作，像是步態及步長，這些大量的資料漸漸在告訴我們像是關於行為模式的東西一些我們以前從來都不懂。 你可以進ORCATech.org網站—它和鯨魚一點都沒關係，它是奧勒岡州的老年人及科技中心—去看看更多東西。只是問題是，英特爾還是其中之一最大在世界上的贊助者在研究獨立生活科技的。我不是在吹牛我們贊助了多少，而是其實其他人是多麼漠視與老年化及花極少的基金在改革老年化、慢性疾病的管理、和獨立的居家。 所以，我的信念在這，我的第四個口號是：10,000戶或破壞。我們必須要引導全國性的，不然就國際性的，像弗明翰一類的心臟研究的獨立居住科技，當中我們讓10,000家老年人連接在一起靠的是寬頻、完整的醫療特徵，及平台，其中我們可以開始作實驗，並將這20戶個別案例研究，由大學贊助的變成大型臨床試驗來發揮這些科技的價值。所以，10,000戶或破壞。這些只是一些我們已經在英特爾實驗過的家庭。 我的第五個也是最後一點：我已經試了兩年，有些時候我們也很接近，在讓這健康改革法案能改革從這東西到另一種東西。從一個主體模式到個人健康模式、或是能代表不單單只是眾人意見下的討論串或是我們要如何去籌措資金。不管我們怎麼去籌措健康照護的資金，我們總要試著想到些什麼為未來十年，並試試看。不論是誰要買單，我們最好能開始以完全不同的方式來執行健康照護，而且將他的家、病人、他的家庭成員、及照護者都看成是互相合作的一個照護團隊，再用現有的破壞性科技以一些很基本不同的方式來作照護。 總統可能需要站起來並說，在健康照護改革討論的最後，『我們國家的目標是要，移走百分之五十在機構、診所、醫院和照護之家的照護在未來的十年移到家裡。』這是可以達成的。我們應該做得合乎經濟效益。我們應該要做得合乎道德。而且我們應該為了生活品質而作。但現有的健康改革是沒有目標的，在今天是亂成一團的。 所以你知道，這是我要給你最後的一個訊息。我們怎麼去設定一個將要通往月球處理這將要來的Y2K+10問題的目標？這其實沒那麼創新或是科技是那治百病的神奇藥丸，但是它至少會是答案的一部份。而且如果我們不創造一個我們個人的健康運動那是我們都邁向要改革的，那我們哪裡也走不了。所以，我希望你們能把這個會議轉而推進這類的運動。非常謝謝大家。（鼓掌）
