Talk	en	zh-tw
eric_topol_the_wireless_future_of_medicine	"Does anybody know when the stethoscope was invented? Any guesses? 1816. And what I can say is, in 2016, doctors aren't going to be walking around with stethoscopes. There's a whole lot better technology coming, and that's part of the change in medicine. What has changed our society has been wireless devices. But the future are digital medical wireless devices, OK? So, let me give you some examples of this to kind of make this much more concrete. This is the first one. This is an electrocardiogram. And, as a cardiologist, to think that you could see in real time a patient, an individual, anywhere in the world on your smartphone, watching your rhythm — that's incredible, and it's with us today. But that's just the beginning. You check your email while you're sitting here. In the future you're going to be checking all your vital signs, all your vital signs: your heart rhythm, your blood pressure, your oxygen, your temperature, etc. This is already available today. This is AirStrip Technologies. It's now wired — or I should say, wireless — by taking the aggregate of these signals in the hospital, in the intensive care unit, and putting it on a smartphone for physicians. If you're an expectant parent, what about the ability to monitor, continuously, fetal heart rate, or intrauterine contractions, and not having to worry so much that things are fine as the pregnancy, and moving over into the time of delivery? And then as we go further, today we have continuous glucose sensors. Right now, they are under the skin, but in the future, they won't have to be implanted. And of course, the desired range — trying to keep glucose between 75 and less than 200, checking it every five minutes in a continuous glucose sensor — you'll see how that can impact diabetes. And what about sleep? We're going to zoom in on that a little bit. We're supposed to spend a third of our life in sleep. What if, on your phone, which will be available in the next few weeks, you had every minute of your sleep displayed? And this is, of course, as you can see, the awake is the orange. The REM sleep, rapid eye movement, dream state, is in light green; and light is gray, light sleep; and deep sleep, the best restorative sleep, is that dark green. How about counting every calorie? And this is ability, in real time, to actually take measurements of caloric intake as well as expenditure, through a Band-Aid. Now, what I've talked about are physiologic metrics. But what I want to get to, the next frontier, very quickly, and why the stethoscope is on its way out, is because we can transcend listening to the valve sounds, and the breath sounds, because now, introduced by G.E. is a handheld ultra-sound. Why is this important? Because this is so much more sensitive. Here is an example of an abdominal ultrasound, and also a cardiac echo, which can be sent wireless, and then there's an example of fetal monitoring on your smartphone. So, we're not just talking about physiologic metrics — the key measurements of vital signs, and all those things in physiology — but also all the imaging that one could look at in your smartphone. Now, this is an example of another obsolete technology, soon to be buried: the Holter Monitor. Twenty-four hour recording, lots of wires. This is now a little tiny patch. You can put it on for two weeks and send it in the mail. Now, how does this work? Well, there is these smart Band-Aids or these sensors that one would put on, on a shoe or on the wrist. And this sends a signal and it creates a body area network to a gateway. Gateway could be a smartphone or it could be a dedicated gateway, as today many of these things are dedicated gateways, because they are not so well integrated. That signal goes to the web, the cloud, and then it can be processed and sent anywhere: to a caregiver, to a physician, back to the patient, etc. So, that's basically very simplistic technology of how this works. Now, I have this device on. I didn't want to take my shirt off to show you, but I can tell you it's on. This is a device that not only measures cardiac rhythm, as you saw already, but it also goes well beyond that. This is me now. And you can see the ECG. Below that's the actual heart rate and the trend; to the right of that is a bioconductant. That's the fluid status, fluid status, that's really important if you're monitoring somebody with heart failure. And below that's temperature, and respiration, and oxygen, and then the position activity. So, this is really striking, because this device measures seven things that are very much vital signs for monitoring someone with heart failure. OK? And why is this important? Well, this is the most expensive bed. What if we could reduce the need for hospital beds? Well, we can. First of all, heart failure is the number one reason for hospital admissions and readmissions in this country. The cost of heart failure is 37 billion dollars a year, which is 80 percent related to hospitalization. And in the course of 30 days after a hospital stay for a Medicare greater than 65 years or older, is — 27 percent are readmitted in 30 days, and by six months, over 56 percent are readmitted. So, can we improve that? Well the idea is we take this device that I'm wearing, and we put it on 600 patients with heart failure, randomly assigned, versus 600 patients who don't have active monitoring, and see whether we can reduce heart failure readmissions, and that's exciting. And we'll start that trial, and you'll hear more about how we're going to do that, but that's a type of wireless device trial that could change medicine in the years ahead. Why now? Why has this all of a sudden become a reality, an exciting direction in the future of medicine? What we have is, in a way, a perfect positive storm. This sets up consumer-driven healthcare. That's where this is all starting. Let me just give you specifics about why this is a big movement if you're not aware of it: 1.2 million Americans have gotten a Nike shoe, which is a body-area network that connects the shoe, the sole of the shoe to the iPhone, or an iPod. And this Wired Magazine cover article really captured a lot of this; it talked a lot about the Nike shoe and how quickly that's been adopted to monitor exercise physiology and energy expenditure. Here are some things, the principles that are guiding principles to keep in mind: ""A data-driven health revolution promises to make us all better, faster, and stronger. Living by numbers."" And this one, which is really telling, this was from July, this cover article: ""The personal metrics movement goes way beyond diet and exercise. It's about tracking every facet of life, from sleep to mood to pain, 24/7/365."" Well, I tried this device. A lot of you have gotten that Phillips Direct Life. I didn't have one of those, but I got the Fitbit. That looks like this. It's like a wireless accelerometer, pedometer. And I want to just give you the results of that testing, because I wanted to understand about the consumer movement. I hope the, by the way, the Phillips Direct Life works better — I hope so. But this monitors food, it monitors activity and tracks weight. However you have to put in most of this stuff. The only thing it really tracks by itself is activity, and even then, it's not complete. So, you exercise and it picks up the exercise. You put in your height and weight, it calculates BMI, and of course it tells you how many calories you're expending from the exercise, and how many you took in, if you go in and enter all the foods. But it really wants you to enter all your activity. And so I went to this, and of course I was gratified that it picked up the 42 minutes of exercise, elliptical exercise I did, but then it wants more information. So, it says, ""You want to log sexual activity. How long did you do it for?"" (Laughter) And it says, ""How hard was it?"" (Laughter) Furthermore it says, ""Start time."" Now, this doesn't appear — this just doesn't work, I mean, this just doesn't work. So, now I want to move to sleep. Who would ever have thought you could have your own EEG at your home, tagged to a very nice alarm clock, by the way? This is the headband that goes with this alarm clock. It monitors your brainwaves continuously, when you're sleeping. So, I did this thing for seven days getting ready for TEDMed. This is an important part of our life, one-third you're supposed to be sleeping. Of course how many here have any problems with sleeping? It's usually 90 percent. So, you tell me you sleep better than expected. Okay, well this was a week of my life in sleeping, and you get a Z.Q. score. Instead of an I.Q. score, you get a Z.Q. score when you wake up. You say, ""Oh, OK."" And a Z.Q. score is adjusted to age, and you want to get as high as you possibly can. So this is the moment-by-moment, or minute-by-minute sleep. And you see that Z.Q. there was 80-odd. And the wake time is in orange. And this can be a problem, as I learned. Because it not only helps you with quantifying your sleep, but also tells others you're awake. So, when my wife came in and she could tell you're awake. ""Eric, I want to talk. I want to talk."" And I'm trying to play possum. This thing is very, very impressive. OK. So, that's the first night. And this one is now 67, and that's not a good score. And this tells you, of course, how much you had in REM sleep, in deep sleep, and all this sort of thing. This was really fascinating because this gave that quantitation about all the different phases of sleep. So, it also then tells you how you do compared to your age group. It's like a managed competition of sleep. And really interesting stuff. Look at this thing and say, ""Well, I didn't think I was a very good sleeper, but actually I did better than average in 50 to 60 year olds."" OK? And the key thing was, what I didn't know, was that I was a really good dreamer. OK. Now let's move from sleep to diseases. Eighty percent of Americans have chronic disease, or 80 percent of age greater than 65 have two or more chronic disease, 140 million Americans have one or more chronic disease, and 80 percent of our 1.5, whatever, trillion expenditures are related to chronic disease. Now, diabetes is one of the big ones. Almost 24 million people have diabetes. And here is the latest map. It was published just a little more than a week ago in the New York Times, and it isn't looking good. That is, for men, 29 percent in the country over 60 have Type II diabetes, and women, although it's less, it's terribly high. But of course we have a way to measure that now on a continuous basis, with a sensor that detects blood glucose, and it's important because we could detect hyperglycemia that otherwise wouldn't be known, and also hypoglycemia. And you can see the red dots, in this particular patient's case, were finger sticks, which would have missed both ends. But by continuous monitoring, it captures all that vital information. The future of this though, is being able to move this to a Band-Aid type phenomenon, and that's not so far away. So, let me just give you, very quickly, 10 top targets for wireless medicine. All these things are possible — some of them are very close, or already, as you heard, are available today, in some way or form. Alzheimer's disease: there's five million people affected, and you can check vital signs, activity, balance. Asthma: large number, we could detect things like pollen count, air quality, respiratory rate. Breast cancer, I'll show you an example of that real quickly. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Depression, there's a great approach to that in mood disorders. Diabetes I've just mentioned. Heart failure we already talked about. Hypertension: 74 million people could have continuous blood-pressure monitoring to come up with much better management and prevention. And obesity we already talked about, the ways to get to that. And sleep disorders. This is effective around the world. The access to smartphones and cell phones today is extraordinary. And this article from The Economist summed it up beautifully about the opportunities in health across the developing world: ""Mobile phones made a bigger difference to the lives of more people, more quickly, than any previous technology."" And that's before we got going on the m-health world. Aging: The problem is enormous, 300,000 broken hips per year; but the solutions are extraordinary, and they include so many different things. One of the ones I just wanted to mention: The iShoe is another example of a sensor that improves proprioception among the elderly to prevent falling. One of many different techniques using wireless sensors. So, we can change medicine across the continuum of care, across the ages from premies or unborn children to seniors; the pharmaceutical arena changes; the full spectrum of disease — I hope I've given you a sense of that — across the globe. There are two things that can really accelerate this whole process. One of them — we're very fortunate — is to develop a dedicated institute and that's work that started with the work that Scripps with Qualcomm ... and then the great fortune of meeting up with Gary and Mary West, to get behind this wireless health institute. San Diego is an extraordinary place for this. There's over 650 wireless companies, 100 of which or more are working in wireless health. It's the number one source of commerce, and interestingly it dovetails beautifully with over 500 life science companies. The wireless institute, the West Wireless Health Institute, is really the outgrowth of two extraordinary people who are here this evening: Gary and Mary West. And I'd like to give it up for them for getting behind this. (Applause) Their fantastic philanthropic investment made this possible, and this is really a nonprofit education center which is just about to open. It looks like this, this whole building dedicated. And what it's trying to do is accelerate this era: to take unmet medical needs, to work and innovate — and we just appointed the chief engineer, Mehran Mehregany, it was announced on Monday — then to move up with development, clinical trial validation and then changing medical practice, the most challenging thing of all, requiring attention to reimbursement, healthcare policy, healthcare economics. The other big thing, besides having this fantastic institute to catalyze this process is guidance, and that's of course relying on the fact that medicine goes digital. If we understand biology from genomics and omics and wireless through physiologic phenotyping, that's big. Because what it does is allow a convergence like we've never had before. Over 80 major diseases have been cracked at the genomic level, but this is quite extraordinary: More has been learned about the underpinnings of disease in the last two and a half years than in the history of man. And when you put that together with, for example, now an app for the iPhone with your genotype to guide drug therapy ... but, the future — we can now tell who's going to get Type II diabetes from all the common variants, and that's going to get filled in more with low-frequency variants in the future. We can tell who's going to get breast cancer from the various genes. We can also know who's likely to get atrial fibrillation. And finally, another example: sudden cardiac death. Each of these has a sensor. We can give glucose a sensor for diabetes to prevent it. We can prevent, or have the earliest detection possible, for breast cancer with an ultrasound device given to the patient. An iPatch, iRhythm, for atrial fibrillation. And vital-signs monitoring to prevent sudden cardiac death. We lose 700,000 people a year in the U.S. from sudden cardiac death. So, I hope I've convinced you of this, of the impact on hospital clinic resources is profound and then the impact on diseases is equally impressive across all these different diseases and more. It's really taking individualized medicine to a new height and it's hyper-innovative, and I think it represents the black swan of medicine. Thanks for your attention. (Applause)"	有人知道聽診器是什麼時候發明的嗎?猜猜看? 答案是1816年。我預測到2016年，醫生就不會再帶聽診器了。未來科技將更加精良，醫療科技的變革亦然。 在過去，無線設備改變了我們的社會，而未來，數位醫療無線設備是必然趨勢。 我可以用一些例子來具體說明。首先，這是一張心電圖。身為一位心臟專科醫師，試想不論在世上任何地方，你都能在第一時間，用智慧型手機，判讀病患的心電圖，這是多麼不可思議，今天我們辦到了， 但這只是個開始。坐在這裡的同時你也在檢查電子郵件，未來你可以檢查你的生命徵象，所有生命徵象，包括心跳、血壓、血氧量及體溫等等。這些數據現在垂手可得。 這是遠端醫療監測服務(AirStrip Technologies公司提供)。目前是有線的，如果從彙集醫院，加護病房裡的訊號，再匯入醫生的智慧型手機這一點來看，那我應該說它是無線的。如果你即將為人父母，要是能夠持續觀察監測胎兒的心跳或子宮收縮，不用太過擔心懷孕的過程，一直到生產的那天，那會如何呢? 我們再來看看，現有的連續式血糖感應器，目前是植入在皮膚底下的。但是未來不再需要植入體內了。理想的狀況是把血糖值控制在75 到 200 之間，每五分鐘檢查一次血糖感應器。可以想見這對糖尿病患影響有多大。 那麼在睡眠方面呢?現在來稍微深入看看睡眠。我們一生中有三分之一都在睡覺，要是接下來的幾個禮拜你每分鐘的睡眠狀況都可以顯示在手機上呢?如您所見，橘色代表清醒狀態。綠色是REM，快速動眼期，也就是夢發生的時期。灰色是淺眠期。還有，最有助於恢復精神的深眠期是深綠色。 那麼，計算卡路里呢?藉由類似OK蹦的東西就可以即時測量所攝取及消耗的卡路里。 到目前為止，我所談的都僅只於生理指標。接下來我要談談新的領域，我也會說明為什麼聽診器正快速的被淘汰，奇異公司研發的手持超音波掃描儀，讓聽診不再僅侷限於辨識心臟瓣膜音及呼吸音。這項技術為什麼如此重要? 因為它非常的敏感。來看看幾個例子，腹部超音波，可以無線傳送的心臟超音波，及使用智慧型手機進行胎兒監測。 現在談的不只是測量重要生命徵象、生理指標數據、生理機能，而是同時能在智慧型手機上看到影像。這是另一個會被淘汰的科技，很快將被遺忘的24小時心電圖。可以全天候監測紀錄，有很多電線。現在這小小的貼片將取代它。這貼片可以貼在身上兩周。記錄的數據可以透過email傳送。 這是如何辦到的?病人在鞋子裡或手腕上穿戴這些智慧型OK蹦或感應器它們會發出訊號。這讓病人的身體成為一個連接到網路通信閘道器的訊息網路閘道器可以是智慧型手機，或專用的閘道器，現在專用閘道器仍普遍使用，因為兩者尚未整合好。訊號傳到網路，也就是雲端，這些數據會被處理並傳送給護士、醫生或是病人自己…，等等。基本上這一項技術的運作方式其實很簡單。 現在我身上就貼了這個感應器。我不會把襯衫脫下來給各位看，但是我身上真有一個。這個裝置不只能夠測量心律，如同您已經看到的，它可以做的事情遠超過這些。您現在看到的是我的心電圖。下方是我的心跳速率及模式，右邊的是生理參數，它反映的是體液的狀態，對於監測心臟衰竭的病患體液狀態尤其重要。下方是體溫、呼吸、及血氧量，還有我的身體活動姿勢。這真是非常了不起!因為這個裝置可以同時監測心臟衰竭病患的七個重要生命徵象。 為什麼這很重要？這是一張費用最昂貴的病床，要是可以減少對病床的需求會如何呢？事實上辦不到。因為心臟衰竭是美國病患住院及再度住院的首要原因。每年花在治療心臟衰竭的費用高達370億美元，其中80%與住院有關。醫療保險Medicare支付30天的住院療程，其65歲以上的病患出院後30天內再住院率是27%。6個月內再度住院率超過56%。這個狀況可以改善嗎？有個臨床實驗是把我身上的裝置隨機裝在600位心臟衰竭患者身上，與600位沒有裝感應器的心臟衰竭患者作比較，觀察是否可以降低病患的再住院率。這很令人興奮，這個實驗即將開始，您會聽到實驗進展的消息。這只是未來幾年改變醫療的無線裝置實驗的其中一種。 為何是現在？為何這令人振奮的醫療發展新走向突然瞬間成真？這是因為一場積極正面的醫療變革，促成了消費者導向醫療照護的形成，一切就是由此開始的。假如您尚未知悉，容我向各位報告為什麼這是一場巨大變革的細節。有120萬美國人擁有具身體訊息網路功能的Nike運動鞋，鞋底的感應器可以連結到iPhone或iPod。這篇《連線》雜誌的封面文章對此詳盡報導，文中對Nike運動鞋著墨甚多，談到它快速的被用於監測運動生理狀態及能量消耗。有些該銘記於心的指導原則：「一場由數據主導的健康革命承諾藉著密切掌控數據，將使我們活的更好、更快、更強壯。」《連線》雜誌的七月號刊的封面文章說： 「這場生理指標數值個人化的變革將遠超越飲食、運動的用途，它可以365天，24小時，全年無休追蹤睡眠、情緒、疼痛等身體的各個面向。」我試用過這個裝置。大部分的人用的是飛利浦的 Direct Life，我用的不是Direct Life，而是Fitbit（隨身生活記錄器）就是這個，它像是無線的加速度計或計步器。我要測試一下讓大家看看結果，我想要了解消費者運動。喔，我希望飛利浦的Direct Life比較好用，我說真的。Fitbit可以監測食物、活動、體重。但大部分你得自己輸入；它唯一自動追蹤監測的是活動，即便如此，它仍然不夠完善。你運動，它會記錄下來，你輸入身高、體重，它會計算BMI，運動時它會告訴你耗盡了多少熱量，如果輸入你吃的所有食物，它會告訴你攝取了多少熱量。 重點是要輸入你所有的活動，我用了Fitbit，也很滿意它記錄了我做的42分鐘的簡單的運動。但是它要求的更多，它說：「輸入你的性行為；活動持續多久？」（觀眾笑聲）「有多困難？」（雙關語:有多硬？）（觀眾笑聲）「開始時間。」我沒有輸入...這樣不行啊，這樣根本行不通啊。 好，現在來談睡眠，誰想到過在自己家裡，可以有個附腦波監測器的鬧鐘。這是這個鬧鐘的頭帶，你睡覺的時候，它會持續監測你的腦波。為了準備TEDMed的演講我試了這個裝置七天。睡眠是人生的重要部分，一生中有1/3在睡覺。 在座各位有多少有睡眠方面的問題？通常是90%，所以在座各位都睡的不錯喔!好，這是我一個禮拜的睡眠狀況。這是睡眠商數，不是智力商數，一早醒來你會知道你的睡眠商數。你可能會想：「嗯，好。」睡眠商數隨年齡而易，得分越高越好。這個圖片顯示的是每分鐘的睡眠狀況。你可以看到我得了80幾分，橘色代表我醒著的時間。我發現這樣有問題，因為這樣一來它不僅幫助你把睡眠狀況數據化，同時也告訴別人你醒著。當我太太走進房間她知道我是醒著的。「艾瑞克，我有話要說，我有話要說。」我還在裝睡。這真的是非常的了不起！ 好，這是第一個晚上，我的分數是67分，這個分數不是很好。這個裝置還告訴你在快速動眼期、深眠期和各個狀態的睡眠時間。這真的非常吸引人，因為它對睡眠的各個階段作定量分析。同時也把你和同年齡的人比較一番，好像睡眠大賽似的。這個裝置真的很有趣。我看著它心裡想：「嗯，我睡覺睡得不怎麼樣嘛！但是比起一般五、六十歲的人，我表現的還不賴喔！」我以前所不知道的是，我睡覺時作很多夢。 好，談完了睡眠，來看看疾病。80%的美國人有慢性病，65歲以上的美國人，八成罹患兩種以上的慢性病。有1億4千萬的美國人罹患一種以上的慢性病。1.5兆美金的醫療開銷中有80%與慢性病有關。糖尿病是其中之一，大約有2千4百萬人有糖尿病。這是《紐約時報》一星期前公布的最新糖尿病患分布地圖。狀況看起來不妙。在美國，60歲以上男性，29%患有第二型糖尿病。女性雖然少一些，但仍是高得嚇人。 現在有血糖感應器可以用它來持續監測血糖。這很重要，因為我們可以檢查出現有技術檢查不到的高血糖症及低血糖症。以這個測量針刺血糖值的病人為例，其測量值兩側的數據被遺漏了， 藉由持續監測血糖，可以記錄所有重要的生命徵象數據。這一科技的未來，正朝向OK蹦感應器的形式發展，不久的將來就可以實現。現在我簡短的向各位報告無線醫療科技的10大目標，這些目標都是可以實現的，有些很接近完成，或如您聽到的，已經被運用於臨床上。 阿滋海默症：有500萬人罹患此病，我們可以檢查這些人的生命徵象，活動，平衡感。氣喘：病患眾多，可以檢測花粉量，空氣品質，呼吸頻率。乳癌：稍後我會給各位一個例子。慢性阻塞性肺病。憂鬱症：現在有很好的情緒障礙監測方法。我已經介紹過的糖尿病和心臟衰竭。高血壓：7千4百萬人可以持續的監控血壓，幫助醫界找到更好的血壓管理和預防方法。我們也談過了處理肥胖及睡眠障礙的方法。 這一切可運用在全世界各地，因為手機、智慧型手機已經非常普及了。這篇《經濟學人》的文章對開發中國家衛生保健發展的時機做了一個完美的總結：「相較於以往任何科技，行動電話正以更大的規模、更快速的影響更多人的生活。」而文章寫於無線醫療開始之前。老化：問題很嚴重。每年有30萬個髖關節骨折病例。然而我們有絕佳的解決方案，包括許多琳瑯滿目的科技。 其中我要特別一提的就是iShoe：這是個很好的例子，它的感應器可以提高老年人的本體感覺預防跌倒。這是無線感應器科技的其中一個應用。醫療將大為改觀，包括持續性照護、從早產兒、胎兒到老年人各年齡層的醫療、整個製藥領域，整個疾病醫療過程。希望我說得夠清楚，全球醫療也將改變。 有兩件事更加快了這個過程。第一，我們非常幸運成立了專門研究無線醫療的機構，斯克利普斯研究院和高通公司是這方面的先驅；再者就是非常幸運的遇到蓋瑞和瑪莉威斯特夫婦，他們大力襄助這個無線醫療研究機構。聖地牙哥是個絕佳的地點，有650家無線技術的公司，其中100多家專攻無線醫療領域。有最豐富的無線醫療商務資源，天衣無縫的搭配500多家生命科學公司。 威斯特無線健康研究院是這兩位卓越非凡的人努力的成果，今晚他們也來到了現場 —蓋瑞和瑪莉威斯特夫婦，在此我要感謝威斯特夫婦的鼎力相助。（觀眾鼓掌）威斯特夫婦慷慨的慈善投資使這一切能夠實現，就是這所即將開幕營運的非營利教育中心，這是它的外觀。威斯特研究院將完全致力於無線醫療的研究。也正嚐試加速無線醫療時代的發展：針對有待解決的醫療需求，研發創新。我們在星期一剛宣布任命了首席工程師 Mehran Mehregany。我們自許要與時俱進，進行臨床試驗，改善醫療現況。最大的挑戰在於，喚起大眾對醫療賠償、健保政策及財政的關注。 有這所研究機構催化醫療變革之外，另一件重要的事是 —發展方向的指引，這有賴於醫療數位化。我們從基因組學和體學來了解生物學，透過無線科技了解生理表型分析是重大的進展。因為這是人類知識史無前例的大匯集。超過80%重大疾病的基因已被破解，這是非凡的成就— 在過去這兩年半我們對於疾病發生的根本成因的瞭解超越了歷史的任何一個時期。把這一切搭配iPhone的應用軟體，針對個人遺傳基因來引導選擇藥物治療。現在我們可以根據常見的基因變異，預測誰會得到第二型糖尿病，而未來，我們對造成第二型糖尿病的較不常見的變異，會有更多了解。我們可以從各種基因預測誰會得到乳癌，也可以預測誰有可能罹患心律不整（心房纖維顫動）， 以及心因性猝死。針對每項疾病我們研發出感應器。糖尿病患者能夠運用血糖感應器來事先防範。我們可以用超音波掃描儀來預防或儘早驗出乳癌，讓心律不整患者配戴iRhythm，藉由監測生命徵象預防心因性猝死，每年美國有70萬人死於心因性猝死。 我希望傳達給各位的是 —無線裝置對醫療院所資源的影響極其深遠，對於疾病也同樣將帶來巨大、深遠的影響，包括剛剛談過的，及其他更多的疾病。醫療無線裝置將把個人化醫療帶向更高的水平、一個空前創新的境界。我認為它將引發醫藥界的黑天鵝效應。感謝各位的聆聽。 (觀眾掌聲)
