Talk	en	zh-tw
erica_frenkel_the_universal_anesthesia_machine	"I'm going to talk to you today about the design of medical technology for low-resource settings. I study health systems in these countries. And one of the major gaps in care, almost across the board, is access to safe surgery. Now one of the major bottlenecks that we've found that's sort of preventing both the access in the first place, and the safety of those surgeries that do happen, is anesthesia. And actually, it's the model that we expect to work for delivering anesthesia in these environments. Here, we have a scene that you would find in any operating room across the US, or any other developed country. In the background there is a very sophisticated anesthesia machine. And this machine is able to enable surgery and save lives because it was designed with this environment in mind. In order to operate, this machine needs a number of things that this hospital has to offer. It needs an extremely well-trained anesthesiologist with years of training with complex machines to help her monitor the flows of the gas and keep her patients safe and anesthetized throughout the surgery. It's a delicate machine running on computer algorithms, and it needs special care, TLC, to keep it up and running, and it's going to break pretty easily. And when it does, it needs a team of biomedical engineers who understand its complexities, can fix it, can source the parts and keep it saving lives. It's a pretty expensive machine. It needs a hospital whose budget can allow it to support one machine costing upwards of 50 or $100,000. And perhaps most obviously, but also most importantly — and the path to concepts that we've heard about kind of illustrates this — it needs infrastructure that can supply an uninterrupted source of electricity, of compressed oxygen, and other medical supplies that are so critical to the functioning of this machine. In other words, this machine requires a lot of stuff that this hospital cannot offer. This is the electrical supply for a hospital in rural Malawi. In this hospital, there is one person qualified to deliver anesthesia, and she's qualified because she has 12, maybe 18 months of training in anesthesia. In the hospital and in the entire region there's not a single biomedical engineer. So when this machine breaks, the machines that they have to work with break, they've got to try and figure it out, but most of the time, that's the end of the road. Those machines go the proverbial junkyard. And the price tag of the machine that I mentioned could represent maybe a quarter or a third of the annual operating budget for this hospital. And finally, I think you can see that infrastructure is not very strong. This hospital is connected to a very weak power grid, one that goes down frequently. So it runs frequently, the entire hospital, just on a generator. And you can imagine, the generator breaks down or runs out of fuel. And the World Bank sees this and estimates that a hospital in this setting in a low-income country can expect up to 18 power outages per month. Similarly, compressed oxygen and other medical supplies are really a luxury, and can often be out of stock for months or even a year. So it seems crazy, but the model that we have right now is taking those machines that were designed for that first environment that I showed you and donating or selling them to hospitals in this environment. It's not just inappropriate, it becomes really unsafe. One of our partners at Johns Hopkins was observing surgeries in Sierra Leone about a year ago. And the first surgery of the day happened to be an obstetrical case. A woman came in, she needed an emergency C-section to save her life and the life of her baby. And everything began pretty auspiciously. The surgeon was on call and scrubbed in. The nurse was there. She was able to anesthetize her quickly, and it was important because of the emergency nature of the situation. And everything began well until the power went out. And now in the middle of this surgery, the surgeon is racing against the clock to finish his case, which he can do — he's got a headlamp. But the nurse is literally running around a darkened operating theater trying to find anything she can use to anesthetize her patient, to keep her patient asleep. Because her machine doesn't work when there's no power. This routine surgery that many of you have probably experienced, and others are probably the product of, has now become a tragedy. And what's so frustrating is this is not a singular event; this happens across the developing world. 35 million surgeries are attempted every year without safe anesthesia. My colleague, Dr. Paul Fenton, was living this reality. He was the chief of anesthesiology in a hospital in Malawi, a teaching hospital. He went to work every day in an operating theater like this one, trying to deliver anesthesia and teach others how to do so using that same equipment that became so unreliable, and frankly unsafe, in his hospital. And after umpteen surgeries and, you can imagine, really unspeakable tragedy, he just said, ""That's it. I'm done. That's enough. There has to be something better."" He took a walk down the hall to where they threw all those machines that had just crapped out on them, I think that's the scientific term, and he started tinkering. He took one part from here and another from there, and he tried to come up with a machine that would work in the reality that he was facing. And what he came up with: was this guy. The prototype for the Universal Anesthesia Machine — a machine that would work and anesthetize his patients no matter the circumstances that his hospital had to offer. Here it is, back at home at that same hospital, developed a little further, 12 years later, working on patients from pediatrics to geriatrics. Let me show you a little bit about how this machine works. Voila! Here she is. When you have electricity, everything in this machine begins in the base. There's a built-in oxygen concentrator down there. Now you've heard me mention oxygen a few times at this point. Essentially, to deliver anesthesia, you want as pure oxygen as possible, because eventually you're going to dilute it, essentially, with the gas. And the mixture that the patient inhales needs to be at least a certain percentage oxygen or else it can become dangerous. But so in here when there's electricity, the oxygen concentrator takes in room air. Now we know room air is gloriously free, it is abundant, and it's already 21 percent oxygen. So all this concentrator does is take that room air in, filter it and send 95 percent pure oxygen up and across here, where it mixes with the anesthetic agent. Now before that mixture hits the patient's lungs, it's going to pass by here — you can't see it, but there's an oxygen sensor here — that's going to read out on this screen the percentage of oxygen being delivered. Now if you don't have power, or, God forbid, the power cuts out in the middle of a surgery, this machine transitions automatically, without even having to touch it, to drawing in room air from this inlet. Everything else is the same. The only difference is that now you're only working with 21 percent oxygen. Now that used to be a dangerous guessing game, because you only knew if you gave too little oxygen once something bad happened. But we've put a long-life battery backup on here. This is the only part that's battery backed up. But this gives control to the provider, whether there's power or not, because they can adjust the flows based on the percentage of oxygen they see that they're giving the patient. In both cases, whether you have power or not, sometimes the patient needs help breathing. It's just a reality of anesthesia, the lungs can be paralyzed. And so we've just added this manual bellows. We've seen surgeries for three or four hours to ventilate the patient on this. So it's a straightforward machine. I shudder to say simple; it's straightforward. And it's by design. You do not need to be a highly trained, specialized anesthesiologist to use this machine, which is good because, in these rural district hospitals, you're not going to get that level of training. It's also designed for the environment that it will be used in. This is an incredibly rugged machine. It has to stand up to the heat and the wear and tear that happens in hospitals in these rural districts. And so it's not going to break very easily, but if it does, virtually every piece in this machine can be swapped out and replaced with a hex wrench and a screwdriver. And finally, it's affordable. This machine comes in at an eighth of the cost of the conventional machine that I showed you earlier. So in other words, what we have here is a machine that can enable surgery and save lives, because it was designed for its environment, just like the first machine I showed you. But we're not content to stop there. Is it working? Is this the design that's going to work in place? Well, we've seen good results so far. This is in 13 hospitals in four countries, and since 2010, we've done well over 2,000 surgeries with no clinically adverse events. So we're thrilled. This really seems like a cost-effective, scalable solution to a problem that's really pervasive. But we still want to be sure that this is the most effective and safe device that we can be putting into hospitals. So to do that, we've launched a number of partnerships with NGOs and universities, to gather data on the user interface, on the types of surgeries it's appropriate for, and ways we can enhance the device itself. One of those partnerships is with Johns Hopkins just here in Baltimore. They have a really cool anesthesia simulation lab out in Baltimore. So we're taking this machine and recreating some of the operating theater crises that this machine might face in one of the hospitals that it's intended for, and in a contained, safe environment, evaluating its effectiveness. We're then able to compare the results from that study with real-world experience, because we're putting two of these in hospitals that Johns Hopkins works with in Sierra Leone, including the hospital where that emergency C-section happened. So I've talked a lot about anesthesia, and I tend to do that. I think it is incredibly fascinating and an important component of health. And it really seems peripheral, we never think about it, until we don't have access to it, and then it becomes a gatekeeper. Who gets surgery and who doesn't? Who gets safe surgery and who doesn't? But you know, it's just one of so many ways that design, appropriate design, can have an impact on health outcomes. If more people in the health-delivery space really working on some of these challenges in low-income countries could start their design process, their solution search, from outside of that proverbial box and inside of the hospital — In other words, if we could design for the environment that exists in so many parts of the world, rather than the one that we wished existed — we might just save a lot of lives. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我今天要與各位分享資源貧乏環境中的醫療技術設計在我進行健康照護體系研究的國家都有一個嚴重的不足之處幾乎所有的國家都無法取得安全的手術我們遇到的重大瓶頸之一讓病患一開始就沒有取得手術的機會或是即使有手術也不安全就是麻醉事實上 這是我們期待的工作模式提供麻醉的方式在這種環境中 像這樣的場景在美國或任何其他已開發國家的手術房都很常見照片的背景是一台非常複雜的麻醉機這台機器讓手術得以進行 拯救生命因為在設計時已經把環境納入考量這台機器要運作 需要幾個條件醫院必須滿足這些條件這台機器需由訓練精良的麻醉師操作麻醉師對於複雜機器需有多年經驗才得以監控氣體的流動確保病患安全無虞 維持在麻醉狀態直到手術結束這台精密的機器 仰賴電腦運算還有特別照顧 小心謹慎地使用 才能維持運作順暢它很容易故障故障時 要由一整團的生物醫學工程師了解這台機器複雜之處的專家才能進行修復 替換零件讓它繼續拯救生命 這台機器價格不斐醫院必須有充足的預算 才能維持一台機器成本高達五至十萬美金也許最明顯也最重要的是我們聽過的一種思考方式描述類似這樣的觀念就是基礎建設必須能夠不間斷地供應資源包括電力 壓縮氧氣和其他醫療輔助這些都是機器正常運作不可或缺的換句話說 這台機器需要的許多東西這家醫院都不能提供 這是供電系統地點是馬拉威郊區一處醫院在這所醫院裡有一個人 有資格進行麻醉她之所以合格是因為她花了12個月 或是18個月接受麻醉訓練在這所醫院 以及整個地區中完全沒有生物醫學工程師所以當機器故障他們還是得想辦法繼續使用必須試著解決故障問題 但大多數時候都束手無策這些機器就被扔進垃圾堆另外我剛剛提到 這台機器的價錢可能就占掉這所醫院年度營運預算的1/4或1/3 最後 我想各位看得出這裡的基礎建設並不牢固這所醫院連結的電力網路非常不穩定常常斷電所以整家醫院常常只靠一個發電機各位可以想像 發電機會故障或是燃料不足世界銀行注意到這種情況並估計在低收入國家環境中的醫院一個月可能發生多達18次跳電同樣的 壓縮氧氣和其他醫療輔助都是奢侈品都可能常常供應不足長達數月或一年的時間 所以雖然看起來很瘋狂 但我們現有的模式就是把這些機器這些專為第一張照片裡那種環境設計的機器捐獻或賣給這種環境中的醫院這不僅不合適還可能很不安全 我們在約翰‧霍普金斯的一位同事在獅子山共和國觀察手術時間大概是去年當天的第一場手術是難產手術一位婦女被推進手術室 她需要緊急剖腹生產才能救自己和寶寶的命一開始都還蠻順利的醫生待命 準備就緒護士也在場她很快地麻醉病患這點很重要 因為情況十分緊急一切都很順利直到電力突然中斷手術才進行到一半醫生正努力加快速度要把手術完成他做得到 因為他有頭燈但是那位護士就在黑暗的手術室裡團團轉試著要找能用來麻醉病患的任何東西讓病患維持睡眠狀態因為她的機器沒有電就無法運作在座許多人可能都經歷過這項例行性手術其他人可能經由這項手術而誕生但現在成了一場悲劇讓人氣餒的是 這不是單一事件這種事情在開發中國家屢見不鮮每年要動的3500萬次手術都沒有安全的麻醉 我的同事 保羅‧芬頓博士就身臨其境他是麻醉部門的主任服務於馬拉威一所醫院 教學醫院他每天去上班就在這種手術室裡工作他試著進行麻醉 也教導其他人如何使用這種設備這種在他的醫院中變得不再可靠又不安全的設備在無數次手術之後還有 各位應該可以想像 難以言喻的悲劇之後他終於說：「夠了 我受夠了 到此為止一定有更好的辦法」因此他走到大廳他們把所有壞掉的麻醉機都堆在那裡──我想那是個科學專有名詞然後他開始七拼八湊從這裡抓一個零件 那裡抓一個零件試著組裝成一台機器能夠在他所面對的現實環境中運作的機器 結果他組裝出來的是就這個玩意兒通用麻醉機的原型這台機器能夠運作讓他麻醉病患不論他所工作的醫院提供的環境如何這張照片是它回到家12年後它略為改善 回到同一所醫院從小兒科服務到老人醫學 現在讓各位多看一點這台機器如何運作鏘鏘！就是它當有電力時一切都從機器的底部開始運作這裡有內建的氧氣壓縮機各位剛剛已經聽到我提起氧氣好幾次基本上 要進行麻醉純氧要越多越好因為最後這些純氧會被稀釋會跟空氣混合病患吸入的混合氣體必須至少有一定比例的氧氣不然會很危險因此 有電力的時候氧氣壓縮機會吸取室內空氣我們都知道 室內空氣不花一毛錢又源源不絕而且氧氣含量達21%因此壓縮機吸取 過濾室內空氣然後送出濃度達95%的純氧上面送達這裡就是混合麻醉劑的地方 混合氣體到達病患肺部之前會先通過這裡各位看不到 不過這裡有一個氧氣感應器會把資訊送到這個螢幕可以看到送出氣體中氧氣所占的百分比但是如果你沒有電源或是天公不長眼 電力在手術時中斷這台機器會自動切換連碰都不用碰換成從這個開口吸取室內空氣 其他都一樣唯一的差別是你現在只有氧氣濃度21%的氣體在以前 這會是個危險的猜謎遊戲因為只有情況惡化時 你才會知道氧氣供應不足但我們這裡放了一顆長效備用電池這是唯一有備用電池的部分麻醉師可以藉此掌控情況不管有沒有電他們都可以調整氣體流動按照所看到的氧氣濃度 調整病患吸入的份量 在這兩種情況中不論有電或沒電病患有時就是需要幫助才能呼吸麻醉的實情就是如此 肺部可能會癱瘓所以增加了這個手動的鼓風扇我們遇過3或4小時的手術就靠這個讓病人換氧 因此這是一台直截了當的機器我不想說它簡單它非常直接但是是精心設計的成果你不需要受過嚴格 專門的麻醉師訓練才能使用這台機器這是優點 因為在這些農村醫院你也得不到那種程度的訓練它是為了所服務的環境而設計的 也是一台非常耐操的機器能夠耐得住高溫 耗損 磨蝕這些在農村醫院發生的情況所以它不會輕易故障但如果故障了 機器裡的每一個零件都可以拆下來換新只要有六角扳手和螺絲起子就做得到最後 它的價格合理這台機器的成本是剛剛讓各位看到的傳統型機器的1/8因此換句話說 我們現有的是一台讓手術得以進行 能拯救生命的機器因為它是因應環境而設計的就像我讓各位看到的第一台機器 但是我們並不就此滿足它有效嗎？這種設計是最適當的嗎？目前我們看到的結果都不錯這是分佈在四個國家的13所醫院從2010年起我們已經進行超過2000次手術都沒有臨床上的不良反應讓人十分振奮它確實像是個具成本效益 可擴展規模的方法可以解決這個普遍的問題但我們仍然想確定它是最有效 最安全的設備完全適合放在醫院裡 因此我們發起了幾個合作計畫跟非政府組織和大學合作從使用者介面取得資料得知這台機器適於哪一種手術以及如何強化機器的方法這些合作計畫之一就是跟巴爾的摩這裡的約翰‧霍普金斯大學合作他們在巴爾的摩這裡有一間很酷的麻醉模擬實驗室所以我們拿了這台機器又重建了一些手術室裡的危機這台機器可能在未來服務的醫院裡會遇到這些危機我們在受控制 安全的環境中評估它的效能然後就可以把這項研究的結果跟真實世界的經驗做比較我們放了兩台機器到約翰‧霍普金斯大學在獅子山共和國的合作醫院中包括發生緊急剖腹生產手術的醫院 我對麻醉做了許多說明 我常常會這樣我認為它非常引人入勝也是健康非常重要的要素之一這個議題似乎處於邊陲 沒有人會想到直到沒得用了我們才會注意然後它成了守門人誰能接受手術 誰不能？誰能接受安全的手術 誰不能？但其實 這只是說明設計 合宜的設計可以對健康結果造成影響的諸多例子之一如果醫療服務傳遞領域有更多人確實努力解決低收入國家的這些挑戰開啟設計的過程尋找解決之道不墨守成規而是設身處地為醫院著想也就是說 如果我們能夠替存在於世上許多地方的環境設計而不是替我們希望存在的環境設計也許就能拯救無數的生命 感謝各位 (掌聲)
