Talk	en	zh-tw
erik_johansson_impossible_photography	I'm here to share my photography. Or is it photography? Because, of course, this is a photograph that you can't take with your camera. Yet, my interest in photography started as I got my first digital camera at the age of 15. It mixed with my earlier passion for drawing, but it was a bit different, because using the camera, the process was in the planning instead. And when you take a photograph with a camera, the process ends when you press the trigger. So to me it felt like photography was more about being at the right place and the right time. I felt like anyone could do that. So I wanted to create something different, something where the process starts when you press the trigger. Photos like this: construction going on along a busy road. But it has an unexpected twist. And despite that, it retains a level of realism. Or photos like these — both dark and colorful, but all with a common goal of retaining the level of realism. When I say realism, I mean photo-realism. Because, of course, it's not something you can capture really, but I always want it to look like it could have been captured somehow as a photograph. Photos where you will need a brief moment to think to figure out the trick. So it's more about capturing an idea than about capturing a moment really. But what's the trick that makes it look realistic? Is it something about the details or the colors? Is it something about the light? What creates the illusion? Sometimes the perspective is the illusion. But in the end, it comes down to how we interpret the world and how it can be realized on a two-dimensional surface. It's not really what is realistic, it's what we think looks realistic really. So I think the basics are quite simple. I just see it as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces of reality and put it together to create alternate reality. And let me show you a simple example. Here we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects, something we all can relate to living in a three-dimensional world. But combined in a certain way, they can create something that still looks three-dimensional, like it could exist. But at the same time, we know it can't. So we trick our brains, because our brain simply doesn't accept the fact that it doesn't really make sense. And I see the same process with combining photographs. It's just really about combining different realities. So the things that make a photograph look realistic, I think it's the things that we don't even think about, the things all around us in our daily lives. But when combining photographs, this is really important to consider, because otherwise it just looks wrong somehow. So I would like to say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic result. As you can see, these images aren't really special. But combined, they can create something like this. So the first rule is that photos combined should have the same perspective. Secondly, photos combined should have the same type of light. And these two images both fulfill these two requirements — shot at the same height and in the same type of light. The third one is about making it impossible to distinguish where the different images begin and end by making it seamless. Make it impossible to say how the image actually was composed. So by matching color, contrast and brightness in the borders between the different images, adding photographic defects like depth of field, desaturated colors and noise, we erase the borders between the different images and make it look like one single image, despite the fact that one image can contain hundreds of layers basically. So here's another example. (Laughter) One might think that this is just an image of a landscape and the lower part is what's manipulated. But this image is actually entirely composed of photographs from different locations. I personally think that it's easier to actually create a place than to find a place, because then you don't need to compromise with the ideas in your head. But it does require a lot of planning. And getting this idea during winter, I knew that I had several months to plan it, to find the different locations for the pieces of the puzzle basically. So for example, the fish was captured on a fishing trip. The shores are from a different location. The underwater part was captured in a stone pit. And yeah, I even turned the house on top of the island red to make it look more Swedish. So to achieve a realistic result, I think it comes down to planning. It always starts with a sketch, an idea. Then it's about combining the different photographs. And here every piece is very well planned. And if you do a good job capturing the photos, the result can be quite beautiful and also quite realistic. So all the tools are out there, and the only thing that limits us is our imagination. Thank you. (Applause)	我今天來分享我的攝影。或者說，它算是攝影嗎?因為，這顯然是一張你無法用你的相機拍出的照片。 我對攝影的興趣開始於我得到第一台數位相機的時候，在我15歲那年。它結合了我之前對繪畫的熱情。但它有點不同。因為用相機時，整個過程是在計畫中。當你用相機拍了張照片，過程在你按下快門那瞬間結束。所以對我來說，攝影比較像是天時地利的配合。我覺得任何人都能做到。 所以我想要創造點不同的東西，讓過程的開始是在你按下快門之後。像這樣的照片：在繁忙的道路旁進行施工。但它有著意想不到的手法。除此之外，它保留某種程度的真實感。或者像這樣的相片—同時是灰暗又色彩繽紛的，但都存在一個共同的目標就是要保留某種程度的真實性。當我說真實性，我指的是相片的真實性。因為，當然它不是你真的能捕捉到的鏡頭，但我總是希望讓它看起來像是可被捕捉的一張相片。是你會需要花點時間去思考才能發現把戲的照片。所以這比較算是捕捉一個想法而不單單只是捕捉一個瞬間。 但，是什麼把戲讓它看起來是真實的?是它的細節還是它的顏色?是它的光線嗎?是什麼創造了幻覺?有時候透視法就是幻覺。但最終，得回歸到我們如何去解讀世界以及它如何在二維的平面上被人們理解。它不是某種真實的東西，而是我們認為看起來很真實的東西。 所以我覺得基本原理是很簡單的。我只是把它看作是一個真實性的拼圖是你可以將不同的真實拼塊湊在一起去創造另類的真實性。讓我給各位看一個簡單的例子。這裡我們有三個完全可想像到的實體物質，那是我們活在三維世界裡都可以聯想到的。但是以一個特定的方式組合後，它們可以創造出某個看起來還是三維的東西，就像它可能真的存在一樣。但事實上，我們知道它不可能存在。所以我們欺騙了我們的腦袋，因為我們的腦袋無法接受它是不合理的這個事實。而我認為組合照片也是同樣的道理。它就只是組合不同的真實感。 所以讓一張照片看起來真實的那些東西，我覺得是那些我們從不曾沒想過的，那些一直存在於我們日常生活中的東西。但在組合相片時，仔細的思考就變得很重要，因為沒弄好的話它就看起來怪怪的。所以我想告訴大家，有三個簡單的規則可以遵循以達到一個真實的結果。就像你看到的，這些影像沒什麼特別。但組合後，它們可以創造出像這樣。 所以第一個規則是，被組合的相片應該要有相同的透視法。第二，被組合的相片應該要有一樣的光線。而這兩張相片同時符合這兩個條件—拍照時是在同一個高度且也是同樣的光線。第三則是，要做得完全無縫，讓人無法去辨別不同照片的開始和結束位置。讓人無法得知這影像到底是怎麼合成的。所以藉由搭配顏色、對比及亮度在不同影像的邊界間，加上相片的缺陷像是景深，不飽和顏色及雜色，我們消除了不同相片間的邊界而讓它看起來像是一張照片，雖然事實上這一張照片可能至少包含了上百張的圖層。 所以這是另一個例子。(笑聲)有人可能會想說這只是張風景照而只有下半部被處理過。但這張相片其實是完全從各個不同地點的照片組合出來的。我個人認為，去創造一個地方可能還比去找一個地方簡單些。因為這樣你就不需要和你腦海中的想法妥協但它確實需要很多計劃。在冬天的時候有了這個想法，我知道我有好幾個月可以規劃它，去為拼圖塊的基礎找一些不同的地點。所以舉例來說，這隻魚是在一個釣魚的旅途中拍到的。岸邊是從不同的地點。水面下的部分是在一個採石場拍到的。喔對了，我甚至把島上的房子變成紅色的好讓它看起來更像瑞典風格。 所以為了達到真實的結果，我覺得還是得回歸到計劃上。它總是從一個草稿開始，一個想法。然後就是組合不同的相片。而這裡的每一個部份都是事先規劃好的。然而，如果你能拍到好照片，結果就會很漂亮而且也很真實。所以所有的工具都有了，而唯一限制住我們的是我們的想像力。 謝謝。 (鼓掌)
