Talk	en	zh-tw
ernesto_sirolli_want_to_help_someone_shut_up_and_listen	"Everything I do, and everything I do professionally — my life — has been shaped by seven years of work as a young man in Africa. From 1971 to 1977 — I look young, but I'm not — (Laughter) — I worked in Zambia, Kenya, Ivory Coast, Algeria, Somalia, in projects of technical cooperation with African countries. I worked for an Italian NGO, and every single project that we set up in Africa failed. And I was distraught. I thought, age 21, that we Italians were good people and we were doing good work in Africa. Instead, everything we touched we killed. Our first project, the one that has inspired my first book, ""Ripples from the Zambezi,"" was a project where we Italians decided to teach Zambian people how to grow food. So we arrived there with Italian seeds in southern Zambia in this absolutely magnificent valley going down to the Zambezi River, and we taught the local people how to grow Italian tomatoes and zucchini and ... And of course the local people had absolutely no interest in doing that, so we paid them to come and work, and sometimes they would show up. (Laughter) And we were amazed that the local people, in such a fertile valley, would not have any agriculture. But instead of asking them how come they were not growing anything, we simply said, ""Thank God we're here."" (Laughter) ""Just in the nick of time to save the Zambian people from starvation."" And of course, everything in Africa grew beautifully. We had these magnificent tomatoes. In Italy, a tomato would grow to this size. In Zambia, to this size. And we could not believe, and we were telling the Zambians, ""Look how easy agriculture is."" When the tomatoes were nice and ripe and red, overnight, some 200 hippos came out from the river and they ate everything. (Laughter) And we said to the Zambians, ""My God, the hippos!"" And the Zambians said, ""Yes, that's why we have no agriculture here."" (Laughter) ""Why didn't you tell us?""""You never asked."" I thought it was only us Italians blundering around Africa, but then I saw what the Americans were doing, what the English were doing, what the French were doing, and after seeing what they were doing, I became quite proud of our project in Zambia. Because, you see, at least we fed the hippos. You should see the rubbish — (Applause) — You should see the rubbish that we have bestowed on unsuspecting African people. You want to read the book, read ""Dead Aid,"" by Dambisa Moyo, Zambian woman economist. The book was published in 2009. We Western donor countries have given the African continent two trillion American dollars in the last 50 years. I'm not going to tell you the damage that that money has done. Just go and read her book. Read it from an African woman, the damage that we have done. We Western people are imperialist, colonialist missionaries, and there are only two ways we deal with people: We either patronize them, or we are paternalistic. The two words come from the Latin root ""pater,"" which means ""father."" But they mean two different things. Paternalistic, I treat anybody from a different culture as if they were my children. ""I love you so much."" Patronizing, I treat everybody from another culture as if they were my servants. That's why the white people in Africa are called ""bwana,"" boss. I was given a slap in the face reading a book, ""Small is Beautiful,"" written by Schumacher, who said, above all in economic development, if people do not wish to be helped, leave them alone. This should be the first principle of aid. The first principle of aid is respect. This morning, the gentleman who opened this conference lay a stick on the floor, and said, ""Can we — can you imagine a city that is not neocolonial?"" I decided when I was 27 years old to only respond to people, and I invented a system called Enterprise Facilitation, where you never initiate anything, you never motivate anybody, but you become a servant of the local passion, the servant of local people who have a dream to become a better person. So what you do — you shut up. You never arrive in a community with any ideas, and you sit with the local people. We don't work from offices. We meet at the cafe. We meet at the pub. We have zero infrastructure. And what we do, we become friends, and we find out what that person wants to do. The most important thing is passion. You can give somebody an idea. If that person doesn't want to do it, what are you going to do? The passion that the person has for her own growth is the most important thing. The passion that that man has for his own personal growth is the most important thing. And then we help them to go and find the knowledge, because nobody in the world can succeed alone. The person with the idea may not have the knowledge, but the knowledge is available. So years and years ago, I had this idea: Why don't we, for once, instead of arriving in the community to tell people what to do, why don't, for once, listen to them? But not in community meetings. Let me tell you a secret. There is a problem with community meetings. Entrepreneurs never come, and they never tell you, in a public meeting, what they want to do with their own money, what opportunity they have identified. So planning has this blind spot. The smartest people in your community you don't even know, because they don't come to your public meetings. What we do, we work one-on-one, and to work one-on-one, you have to create a social infrastructure that doesn't exist. You have to create a new profession. The profession is the family doctor of enterprise, the family doctor of business, who sits with you in your house, at your kitchen table, at the cafe, and helps you find the resources to transform your passion into a way to make a living. I started this as a tryout in Esperance, in Western Australia. I was a doing a Ph.D. at the time, trying to go away from this patronizing bullshit that we arrive and tell you what to do. And so what I did in Esperance that first year was to just walk the streets, and in three days I had my first client, and I helped this first guy who was smoking fish from a garage, was a Maori guy, and I helped him to sell to the restaurant in Perth, to get organized, and then the fishermen came to me to say, ""You the guy who helped Maori? Can you help us?"" And I helped these five fishermen to work together and get this beautiful tuna not to the cannery in Albany for 60 cents a kilo, but we found a way to take the fish for sushi to Japan for 15 dollars a kilo, and the farmers came to talk to me, said, ""Hey, you helped them. Can you help us?"" In a year, I had 27 projects going on, and the government came to see me to say, ""How can you do that? How can you do — ?"" And I said, ""I do something very, very, very difficult. I shut up, and listen to them."" (Laughter) So — (Applause) — So the government says, ""Do it again."" (Laughter) We've done it in 300 communities around the world. We have helped to start 40,000 businesses. There is a new generation of entrepreneurs who are dying of solitude. Peter Drucker, one of the greatest management consultants in history, died age 96, a few years ago. Peter Drucker was a professor of philosophy before becoming involved in business, and this is what Peter Drucker says: ""Planning is actually incompatible with an entrepreneurial society and economy."" Planning is the kiss of death of entrepreneurship. So now you're rebuilding Christchurch without knowing what the smartest people in Christchurch want to do with their own money and their own energy. You have to learn how to get these people to come and talk to you. You have to offer them confidentiality, privacy, you have to be fantastic at helping them, and then they will come, and they will come in droves. In a community of 10,000 people, we get 200 clients. Can you imagine a community of 400,000 people, the intelligence and the passion? Which presentation have you applauded the most this morning? Local, passionate people. That's who you have applauded. So what I'm saying is that entrepreneurship is where it's at. We are at the end of the first industrial revolution — nonrenewable fossil fuels, manufacturing — and all of a sudden, we have systems which are not sustainable. The internal combustion engine is not sustainable. Freon way of maintaining things is not sustainable. What we have to look at is at how we feed, cure, educate, transport, communicate for seven billion people in a sustainable way. The technologies do not exist to do that. Who is going to invent the technology for the green revolution? Universities? Forget about it! Government? Forget about it! It will be entrepreneurs, and they're doing it now. There's a lovely story that I read in a futurist magazine many, many years ago. There was a group of experts who were invited to discuss the future of the city of New York in 1860. And in 1860, this group of people came together, and they all speculated about what would happen to the city of New York in 100 years, and the conclusion was unanimous: The city of New York would not exist in 100 years. Why? Because they looked at the curve and said, if the population keeps growing at this rate, to move the population of New York around, they would have needed six million horses, and the manure created by six million horses would be impossible to deal with. They were already drowning in manure. (Laughter) So 1860, they are seeing this dirty technology that is going to choke the life out of New York. So what happens? In 40 years' time, in the year 1900, in the United States of America, there were 1,001 car manufacturing companies — 1,001. The idea of finding a different technology had absolutely taken over, and there were tiny, tiny little factories in backwaters. Dearborn, Michigan. Henry Ford. However, there is a secret to work with entrepreneurs. First, you have to offer them confidentiality. Otherwise they don't come and talk to you. Then you have to offer them absolute, dedicated, passionate service to them. And then you have to tell them the truth about entrepreneurship. The smallest company, the biggest company, has to be capable of doing three things beautifully: The product that you want to sell has to be fantastic, you have to have fantastic marketing, and you have to have tremendous financial management. Guess what? We have never met a single human being in the world who can make it, sell it and look after the money. It doesn't exist. This person has never been born. We've done the research, and we have looked at the 100 iconic companies of the world — Carnegie, Westinghouse, Edison, Ford, all the new companies, Google, Yahoo. There's only one thing that all the successful companies in the world have in common, only one: None were started by one person. Now we teach entrepreneurship to 16-year-olds in Northumberland, and we start the class by giving them the first two pages of Richard Branson's autobiography, and the task of the 16-year-olds is to underline, in the first two pages of Richard Branson's autobiography how many times Richard uses the word ""I"" and how many times he uses the word ""we."" Never the word ""I,"" and the word ""we"" 32 times. He wasn't alone when he started. Nobody started a company alone. No one. So we can create the community where we have facilitators who come from a small business background sitting in cafes, in bars, and your dedicated buddies who will do to you, what somebody did for this gentleman who talks about this epic, somebody who will say to you, ""What do you need? What can you do? Can you make it? Okay, can you sell it? Can you look after the money?"" ""Oh, no, I cannot do this.""""Would you like me to find you somebody?"" We activate communities. We have groups of volunteers supporting the Enterprise Facilitator to help you to find resources and people and we have discovered that the miracle of the intelligence of local people is such that you can change the culture and the economy of this community just by capturing the passion, the energy and imagination of your own people. Thank you. (Applause)"	我所做的一切，所有工作、生活的一切，已經在我年輕時在非洲工作的七年裡所形塑而成。從 1971 年到 1977 年間我看起來年輕，但其實不然。（笑聲）我在尚比亞、 肯亞、 象牙海岸、 阿爾及利亞、和索馬利亞工作，與非洲國家共同進行技術合作專案 我為一個義大利非政府組織工作然而，我們在非洲建立的每一個專案都失敗了。我當時相當懊惱，我那時 21 歲，以為我們義大利人都是好人，以為我們在非洲做善事；相反地，任何被我們碰到的事情都搞砸了。 我們第一個專案，那激勵我寫出第一本書的專案——《尚比西河的微瀾》（Ripples from the Zambezi）——是一個由我們義大利人所策劃的專案，這專案的目的是要教尚比亞人如何種植糧食。所以我們帶著義大利的種子來到尚比亞南方，在這壯闊的山谷沿著河直下到尚比西河，然後我們教當地人種植義大利番茄、還有櫛瓜......當然，當地人對那一點興趣都沒有，所以我們付他們薪水，希望他們來工作，然後，他們偶爾會出現一下。（笑聲）我們當時覺得當地人很妙，身在這肥沃的山谷中，卻沒有任何農作物，但我們沒有問他們為什麼他們不種植任何作物，我們就只是說：「感謝上帝，我們在這裡。」（笑聲）「我們正好在這關鍵時刻，將尚比亞人民從饑餓中解救出來。」 當然，在非洲，所有作物都長得很漂亮，我們有這些超棒的番茄，在義大利番茄是長這麼大的；而在尚比亞，番茄也是這麼大。我們不相信，我們告訴尚比亞人：「看，農業是多麼簡單。」後來，當番茄漂亮了，成熟了，變紅了，一夜之間，大約有兩百隻河馬從河裡跑出來把它們全吃完了。（笑聲） 我們當時對尚比亞人說：「噢上帝啊，那些河馬！」 尚比亞人說：「是啊，這就是爲什麽我們這兒沒有農業。」（笑聲） 「你們為什麼不告訴我們？」「你們從來沒問過。」 我那時以為，只有我們義大利人在非洲捅出嘍子而已，但後來，我看看美國人做的事，看看英國人做的事，再看看法國人做的事，看完他們所做的後，我開始對我們在尚比亞的計劃感到自豪了。因為，嘿，至少我們喂飽了那些河馬！ 你們應該看看我們那些破爛貨 （掌聲）——你們應該看看，我們提供給那些毫無戒心的非洲人的那些破爛貨，你們想要讀這本書的話，可以讀《無用的援助》（Dead Aid），作者是 Dambisa Moyo，尚比亞女經濟學家。這本書出版於 2009 年。我們西方援助國，在過去五十年來，已經援助了非洲大陸兩兆美元。我今天不是要告訴你們這筆錢所造成的損害，直接去讀她的書吧。讀讀那非洲女性所寫的書，瞭解我們所造成的傷害。 我們西方人是帝國主義者、殖民者和傳教士，我們只用兩種方法對付人：要麼以恩人自居，資助（patronize）他們，不然便一派家長式（paternalistic）的統治作風。這兩個字來自拉丁文字根 「pater」意指「父親」，但它們意味著兩種不同的東西。家長式（paternalistic）的統治作風，意味著我對待任何不同文化背景的人就如同他們是我的孩子，「我非常愛你們。」以恩人自居的資助（patronize），意味著我對待任何不同文化背景的人如同他們是我的僕人，這就是為什麼，在非洲，白人被稱為「bwana」，老闆。 我在讀這本書時，臉上像是被賞了一記耳光。「小即是美」，Schumacher 曾這麼寫道，他說，在經濟發展上，如果人民不想被幫助，那就讓他們自己來；這應該作為援助的第一項原則，援助的第一項原則是尊重。今天早上，在這會議中第一位演講的先生把一根棍子擺在地上，他問：「我們能夠想像，或者，你們能夠想像哪一座城市不是新殖民主義的嗎？」 我在 27 歲的時候決定只想回應人群，我發明了一個叫做企業促進（Enterprise Facilitation）的系統，在那，你永遠不須自行創立任何專案，你永遠無須激勵任何人，但你會成為在地熱情的僕人，當地人的僕人，而這些人有夢想：他們希望成為更好的人。所以，你們要做的就是——閉上嘴。你永遠不要帶著任何想法抵達一個社區，而是與當地居民一同坐下來。我們不在辦公室裡頭談事，而是在咖啡廳見面，我們在酒吧見面，我們沒有任何基礎設施。我們所做的，就是變成朋友，去弄清楚那人想做什麼。 最重要的事，是熱情，你可以給某人一個點子，但如果那人不想做，你能怎麼辦？對自己的成長感到熱情才是最重要的事。人們為自己個人成長的熱情才是最重要的。這樣我們才能協助他們發現知識，因為世上沒人能夠獨自成功。有點子的人不見得擁有知識，但知識就在那，信手拈來即可。 所以許多年以前，我有了這個想法：為什麼我們不就試試看一次，就這麼一次，我們不要跑到那裡告訴人們應該做什麼，為何不試試看，就這麼一次，聽取他們的意見？但不是在社區會議裡。 讓我告訴你一個秘密：社區會議有一個問題，企業家是永遠不會來的，他們永遠不會在公開會議中告訴你，他們想要怎麼用自己的錢做什麼，他們永遠不會在那裡告訴你他們發現了什麼機會。所以，計劃存在著這個盲點。你甚至不知道你社區中最聰明的人是誰，因為他們不會跑來參加你的公開會議。 我們怎麼做呢？我們一對一地見面，為了能一對一地工作，你必須建立一個不曾存在的社會基礎設施，你必須創造一種新的專業，這個專業是企業的家庭醫生，商業的家庭醫生，他和你一起坐在一塊，在你家裡、在你廚房桌邊、在咖啡館，幫助你尋找資源，將你的熱情轉化為一種謀生方式。 我在西澳大利亞的 Esperance 開始嘗試這麼做，我當時正在攻讀博士學位，正試著拋棄那家長式的連篇廢話，那些廢話就是：我們到達當地，告訴你們要做什麼。所以我在 Esperance 第一年所做的就只是逛大街，一連逛三天，我遇到第一個客戶，我幫了這位老兄，這位老兄在車庫裡頭熏魚，他是毛利人，我幫他把魚賣到 Perth 的餐廳，幫他管理這些，然後漁民跑來跟我說：「你就是那個幫助毛利人的先生？你能協助我們嗎?」然後我幫助這五個漁夫，幫助他們他們一起合作，我們不把這漂亮的鮪魚以每一公斤六十美分的價格賣到 Albany 的罐頭工廠，而是，我們找到新方式，把這魚，以每一公斤十五美元賣到日本做壽司。後來，農夫也前來跟我說：「嘿，你幫了他們。你也能幫我們嗎?」一年下來，我手上有了二十七個專案，接著，政府也來找我，問：「你是怎麼做到的？你是怎麼做到的？」我說：「我所做的事非常、 非常、 非常困難——我閉上嘴，我聆聽他們的意見。」（笑聲） 所以 ，（掌聲）所以，政府說：「那就繼續做。」（笑聲）我們已經在世界各地三百個社區中從事這些專案了，我們協助了四萬個創業計劃。有些新一代的企業家死於孤獨， 彼得 · 杜拉克，歷史上最重要的管理顧問之一，幾年前過世了，九十六歲，彼得 · 杜拉克在從商以前是一位是哲學教授，而這是彼得 · 杜拉克曾經說過的話：「規劃，事實上，是和創新社會與經濟不相容的。」「規劃是創業精神的死亡之吻。」 所以，你現在是在重建基督城，然而卻不知道那些在基督城中最聰明的人想要用自己的錢和動力做什麽事。你必須學會如何接近這些人讓他們跑來和你談談，你必須為他們保密機密，尊重隱私，你必須想要幫助他們，然後他們就會來，他們會成群結隊地來找你。在一個有一萬人的的社群裡，我們得到了兩百多個客戶，你可以想像一個有四十萬人的社區裡頭所擁有的聰明才智和熱情嗎？今早的演說，你們覺得那個最棒？在地的、充滿熱情的人，這些就是你們為之鼓掌的人。 所以，我的意思是，這就是創業精神的所在。我們正處於第一次工業革命的終點，那些不可再生的化石燃料與製造業——突然間，我們的系統變得無法永續，內燃引擎是無法永續的，用氯氟烴作為穩定劑也是無法永續的，我們必須要研究如何在糧食、 醫療、 教育、交通、和通信領域上以永續的方式為七十億人服務。目前的科技無法做到這一點。誰會發明綠色革命的科技？大學嗎？別指望它 ！政府嗎？算了吧 ！這將會是企業家，而他們現在就在作這件事。 許多年前，我在一本關於未來學家的雜誌裡讀到一篇可愛的故事，在 1860 年，有一批專家受邀討論紐約市的未來，在 1860 年，這群人聚在一起，猜測一百多年後紐約會發生什麼事，他們得出的結論是一致的：一百年後，紐約會消失。為什麼呢？因為他們觀察曲線，說，如果人口按照這個速度不斷增加，那麼在紐約，運送這些市民將需要六百萬匹馬，而這六百萬匹馬的糞便將無法處理，人們最後都會淹沒在糞便中。（笑聲）所以 1860 年，他們認為這種骯髒的技術會使紐約隕歿。 所以後來怎麼了？四十年後，1900 年，美國有了 1001 家汽車製造公司 — — 1001。發掘不同的技術的點子成為主流，當時在荒僻的地區出現了小工廠，迪爾伯恩，密西根州。亨利 · 福特。 然而，與企業家一起工作，有個秘訣，首先，你要為他們提供保密性，否則他們不會來和你談。接著，你要為他們提供絕對的、專屬於他們的熱情服務。然後你必須告訴他們有關創業精神的道理。無論最小或最大的公司都要能夠完成三件事：你銷售的產品必須非常棒，你必須有絕佳的行銷手段，你必須要優異的財務管理。你們知道嗎？我們在這世上，從未見過有人可以就只是做出成品，賣掉它，然後拿到錢。這並不存在，這個人從未來到這世上。我們做過研究，研究過世上一百家指標性企業——卡內基、 西屋、 愛迪生、 福特、還有所有新公司，谷歌、雅虎——在所有這些成功的企業中只有一個共同之處：它們都不是由一個人開始的。我們教年僅 16 歲的年輕人如何創業在 Northumberland從 Richard Branson 的自傳前兩頁教起，而那些 16 歲年輕人的任務是在 Richard Branson 自傳的前兩頁畫線，畫出 Richard Branson 使用多少次「我」，還有他使用「我們」多少次。一個「我」都沒有，但「我們」這一詞卻用了 32 次，他創業時不是獨自一人的，沒有人獨自一人創業，從來沒有，因此，我們可以成立一個社區在那，我們有擁有小型企業背景的協助人坐在咖啡館和酒吧，作為你的好友，會幫助你，會談論這些計劃，有人會跟你說：「你需要什麼？你能做什麼？你能做到嗎？好，你能銷售它嗎？你能管理財務嗎？」「哦，不，我不能。」「你要我幫你找人嗎？」我們讓社區動起來。我們有支持企業協助人的志工團體會幫你找資源和人我們發現，透過當地人的聰明才智的絕妙之處就在於，你可以透過汲取當地人的熱情、能量、和想像力來改變這個社區的文化與經濟。 謝謝。（掌聲）
