Talk	en	zh-tw
ethan_zuckerman	"I'm an American, which means, generally, I ignore football unless it involves guys my size or Bruno's size running into each other at extremely high speeds. That said, it's been really hard to ignore football for the last couple of weeks. I go onto Twitter, there are all these strange words that I've never heard before: FIFA, vuvuzela, weird jokes about octopi. But the one that's really been sort of stressing me out, that I haven't been able to figure out, is this phrase ""Cala a boca, Galvao."" If you've gone onto Twitter in the last couple of weeks, you've probably seen this. It's been a major trending topic. Being a monolingual American, I obviously don't know what the phrase means. So I went onto Twitter, and I asked some people if they could explain to me ""Cala a boca, Galvao."" And fortunately, my Brazilian friends were more than ready to help. They explained that the Galvao bird is a rare and endangered parrot that's in terrible, terrible danger. In fact, I'll let them tell you a bit more about it. Narrator: A word about Galvao, a very rare kind of bird native to Brazil. Every year, more than 300,000 Galvao birds are killed during Carnival parades. Ethan Zuckerman: Obviously, this is a tragic situation, and it actually gets worse. It turns out that, not only is the Galvao parrot very attractive, useful for headdresses, it evidently has certain hallucinogenic properties, which means that there's a terrible problem with Galvao abuse. Some sick and twisted people have found themselves snorting Galvao. And it's terribly endangered. The good news about this is that the global community — again, my Brazilian friends tell me — is pitching in to help out. It turns out that Lady Gaga has released a new single — actually five or six new singles, as near as I can tell — titled ""Cala a boca, Galvao."" And my Brazilian friends tell me that if I just tweet the phrase ""Cala a boca, Galvao,"" 10 cents will be given to a global campaign to save this rare and beautiful bird. Now, most of you have figured out that this was a prank, and actually a very, very good one. ""Cala a boca, Galvao"" actually means something very different. In Portugese, it means ""Shut your mouth, Galvao."" And it specifically refers to this guy, Galvao Bueno, who's the lead soccer commentator for Rede Globo. And what I understand from my Brazilian friends is that this guy is just a cliche machine. He can ruin the most interesting match by just spouting cliche again and again and again. So Brazilians went to that first match against North Korea, put up this banner, started a Twitter campaign and tried to convince the rest of us to tweet the phrase: ""Cala a boca, Galvao."" And in fact, were so successful at this that it topped Twitter for two weeks. Now there's a couple — there's a couple of lessons that you can take from this. And the first lesson, which I think is a worthwhile one, is that you cannot go wrong asking people to be active online, so long as activism just means retweeting a phrase. So as long as activism is that simple, it's pretty easy to get away with. The other thing you can take from this, by the way, is that there are a lot of Brazilians on Twitter. There's more than five million of them. As far as national representation, 11 percent of Brazilian internet users are on Twitter. That's a much higher number than in the U.S. or U.K. Next to Japan, it's the second most represented by population. Now if you're using Twitter or other social networks, and you didn't realize this was a space with a lot of Brazilians in it, you're like most of us. Because what happens on a social network is you interact with the people that you have chosen to interact with. And if you are like me, a big, geeky, white, American guy, you tend to interact with a lot of other geeky, white, American guys. And you don't necessarily have the sense that Twitter is in fact a very heavily Brazilian space. It's also extremely surprising to many Americans, a heavily African-American space. Twitter recently did some research. They looked at their local population. They believe that 24 percent of American Twitter users are African-American. That's about twice as high as African-Americans are represented in the population. And again, that was very shocking to many Twitter users, but it shouldn't be. And the reason it shouldn't be is that on any day you can go into Trending Topics. And you tend to find topics that are almost entirely African-American conversations. This was a visualization done by Fernando Viegas and Martin Wattenberg, two amazing visualization designers, who looked at a weekend's worth of Twitter traffic and essentially found that a lot of these trending topics were basically segregated conversations — and in ways that you wouldn't expect. It turns out that oil spill is a mostly white conversation, that cookout is a mostly black conversation. And what's crazy about this is that if you wanted to mix up who you were seeing on Twitter, it's literally a quick click away. You click on that cookout tag, there an entirely different conversation with different people participating in it. But generally speaking, most of us don't. We end up within these filter bubbles, as my friend Eli Pariser calls them, where we see the people we already know and the people who are similar to the people we already know. And we tend not to see that wider picture. Now for me, I'm surprised by this, because this wasn't how the internet was supposed to be. If you go back into the early days of the internet, when cyber-utopians like Nick Negroponte were writing big books like ""Being Digital,"" the prediction was that the internet was going to be an incredibly powerful force to smooth out cultural differences, to put us all on a common field of one fashion or another. Negroponte started his book with a story about how hard it is to build connections in the world of atoms. He's at a technology conference in Florida. And he's looking at something really, truly absurd, which is bottles of Evian water on the table. And Negroponte says this is crazy. This is the old economy. It's the economy of moving these heavy, slow atoms over long distances that's very difficult to do. We're heading to the future of bits, where everything is speedy, it's weightless. It can be anywhere in the world at any time. And it's going to change the world as we know it. Now, Negroponte has been right about a lot of things. He's totally wrong about this one. It turns out that in many cases atoms are much more mobile than bits. If I walk into a store in the United States, it's very, very easy for me to buy water that's bottled in Fiji, shipped at great expense to the United States. It's actually surprisingly hard for me to see a Fijian feature film. It's really difficult for me to listen to Fijian music. It's extremely difficult for me to get Fijian news, which is strange, because actually there's an enormous amount going on in Fiji. There's a coup government. There's a military government. There's crackdowns on the press. It's actually a place that we probably should be paying attention to at the moment. Here's what I think is going on. I think that we tend to look a lot at the infrastructure of globalization. We look at the framework that makes it possible to live in this connected world. And that's a framework that includes things like airline routes. It includes things like the Internet cables. We look at a map like this one, and it looks like the entire world is flat because everything is a hop or two away. You can get on a flight in London, you can end up in Bangalore later today. Two hops, you're in Suva, the capitol of Fiji. It's all right there. When you start looking at what actually flows on top of these networks, you get a very different picture. You start looking at how the global plane flights move, and you suddenly discover that the world isn't even close to flat. It's extremely lumpy. There are parts of the world that are very, very well connected. There's basically a giant pathway in the sky between London and New York. but look at this map, and you can watch this for, you know, two or three minutes. You won't see very many planes go from South America to Africa. And you'll discover that there are parts of the globe that are systematically cut off. When we stop looking at the infrastructure that makes connection possible, and we look at what actually happens, we start realizing that the world doesn't work quite the same way that we think it does. So here's the problem that I've been interested in in the last decade or so. The world is, in fact, getting more global. It's getting more connected. More of problems are global in scale. More of our economics is global in scale. And our media is less global by the day. If you watched a television broadcast in the United States in the 1970s, 35 to 40 percent of it would have been international news on a nightly new broadcast. That's down to about 12 to 15 percent. And this tends to give us a very distorted view of the world. Here's a slide that Alisa Miller showed at a previous TED Talk. Alisa's the president of Public Radio International. And she made a cartogram, which is basically a distorted map based on what American television news casts looked at for a month. And you see that when you distort a map based on attention, the world within American television news is basically reduced to this giant bloated U.S. and a couple of other countries which we've invaded. And that's basically what our media is about. And before you conclude that this is just a function of American TV news — which is dreadful, and I agree that it's dreadful — I've been mapping elite media like the New York Times, and I get the same thing. When you look at the New York Times, you look at other elite media, what you largely get are pictures of very wealthy nations and the nations we've invaded. It turns out that new media isn't necessarily helping us all that much. Here's a map made by Mark Graham who's down the street at the Oxford Internet Institute. A this is a map of articles in Wikipedia that have been geo-coded. And you'll notice that there's a very heavy bias towards North America and Western Europe. Even within Wikipedias, where we're creating their own content online, there's a heavy bias towards the place where a lot of the Wikipedia authors are based, rather than to the rest of the world. In the U.K., you can get up, you can pick up your computer when you get out of this session, you could read a newspaper from India or from Australia, from Canada, God forbid from the U.S. You probably won't. If you look at online media consumption — in this case, in the top 10 users of the internet — more than 95 percent of the news readership is on domestic news sites. It's one of these rare cases where the U.S. is actually slightly better than [the U.K.], because we actually like reading your media, rather than vice versa. So all of this starts leading me to think that we're in a state that I refer to as imaginary cosmopolitanism. We look at the internet. We think we're getting this wide view of the globe. We occasionally stumble onto a page in Chinese, and we decide that we do in fact have the greatest technology ever built to connect us to the rest of the world. And we forget that most of the time we're checking Boston Red Sox scores. So this is a real problem — not just because the Red Sox are having a bad year — but it's a real problem because, as we're discussing here at TED, the real problems in the world the interesting problems to solve are global in scale and scope, they require global conversations to get to global solutions. This is a problem we have to solve. So here's the good news. For six years, I've been hanging out with these guys. This is a group called Global Voices. This is a team of bloggers from around the world. Our mission was to fix the world's media. We started in 2004. You might have noticed, we haven't done all that well so far. Nor do I think we are by ourselves, actually going to solve the problem. But the more that I think about it, the more that I think that a few things that we have learned along the way are interesting lessons for how we would rewire if we we wanted to use the web to have a wider world. The first thing you have to consider is that there are parts of the world that are dark spots in terms of attention. In this case — the map of the world at night by NASA — they're dark literally because of lack of electricity. And I used to think that a dark spot on this map basically meant you're not going to get media from there because there are more basic needs. What I'm starting to realize is that you can get media, it's just an enormous amount of work, and you need an enormous amount of encouragement. One of those dark spots is Madagascar, a country which is generally better known for the Dreamworks film than it is actually known for the lovely people who live there. And so the people who founded Foko Club in Madagascar weren't actually concerned with trying to change the image of their country. They were doing something much simpler. It was a club to learn English and to learn computers and the internet. but what happened was that Madagascar went through a violent coup. Most independent media was shut down. And the high school students who were learning to blog through Foko Club suddenly found themselves talking to an international audience about the demonstrations, the violence, everything that was going on within this country. So a very, very small program designed to get people in front of computers, publishing their own thoughts, publishing independent media, ended up having a huge impact on what we know about this country. Now the trick with this is that I'm guessing most people here don't speak Malagasy. I'm also guessing that most of you don't even speak Chinese — which is sort of sad if you think about it, as it's now the most represented language on the internet. Fortunately people are trying to figure out how to fix this. If you're using Google Chrome and you go to a Chinese language site, you notice this really cute box at the top, which automatically detects that the page is in Chinese and very quickly at a mouse click will give you a translation of the page. Unfortunately, it's a machine translation of the page. And while Google is very, very good with some languages, it's actually pretty dreadful with Chinese. And the results can be pretty funny. What you really want — what I really want, is eventually the ability to push a button and have this queued so a human being can translate this. And if you think this is absurd, it's not. There's a group right now in China called Yeeyan. And Yeeyan is a group of 150,000 volunteers who get online every day. They look for the most interesting content in the English language. They translate roughly 100 articles a day from major newspapers, major websites. They put it online for free. It's the project of a guy named Zhang Lei, who was living in the United States during the Lhasa riots and who couldn't believe how biased American media coverage was. And he said, ""If there's one thing I can do, I can start translating, so that people between these countries start understanding each other a little bit better."" And my question to you is: if Yeeyan can line up 150,000 people to translate the English internet into Chinese, where's the English language Yeeyan? Who's going after Chinese, which now has 400 million internet users out there? My guess is at least one of them has something interesting to say. So even if we can find a way to translate from Chinese, there's no guarantee that we're going to find it. When we look for information online, we basically have two strategies. We use a lot of search. And search is terrific if you know what you're looking for. But if what you're looking for is serendipity, if you want to stumble onto something that you didn't know you needed, our main philosophy is to look to our social networks, to look for our friends. What are they looking at? Maybe we should be looking at it. The problem with this is that essentially what you end up getting after a while is the wisdom of the flock. You end up flocking with a lot of people who are probably similar to you, who have similar interests. And it's very, very hard to get information from the other flocks, from the other parts of the world where people getting together and talking about their own interests. To do this, at a certain point, you need someone to bump you out of your flock and into another flock. You need a guide. So this is Amira Al Hussaini. She is the Middle East editor for Global Voices. She has one of the hardest jobs in the world. Not only does she have to keep our Israeli and Palestinian contributors from killing each other, she has to figure out what is going to interest you about the Middle East. And in that sense of trying to get you out of your normal orbit, and to try to get you to pay attention to a story about someone who's given up smoking for the month of Ramadan, she has to know something about a global audience. She has to know something about what stories are available. Basically, she's a deejay. She's a skilled human curator who knows what material is available to her, who's able to listen to the audience, and who's able to make a selection and push people forward in one fashion or another. I don't think this is necessarily an algorithmic process. I think what's great about the internet is that it actually makes it much easier for deejays to reach a wider audience. I know Amira. I can ask her what to read. But with the internet, she's in a position where she can tell a lot of people what to read. And you can listen to her as well, if this is a way that you're interested in having your web widened. So once you start widening like this, once you start lighting up voices in the dark spots, once you start translating, once you start curating, you end up in some really weird places. This is an image from pretty much my favorite blog, which is AfriGadget. And AfriGadget is a blog that looks at technology in an Africa context. And specifically, it's looking at a blacksmith in Kibera in Nairobi, who is turning the shaft of a Landrover into a cold chisel. And when you look at this image, you might find yourself going, ""Why would I conceivably care about this?"" And the truth is, this guy can probably explain this to you. This is Erik Hersman. You guys may have seen him around the conference. He goes by the moniker White African. He's both a very well known American geek, but he's also Kenyan; he was born in Sudan, grew up in Kenya. He is a bridge figure. He is someone who literally has feet in both worlds — one in the world of the African technology community, one in the world of the American technology community. And so he's able to tell a story about this blacksmith in Kibera and turn it into a story about repurposing technology, about innovating from constraint, about looking for inspiration based on reusing materials. He knows one world, and he's finding a way to communicate it to another world, both of which he has deep connections to. These bridge figures, I'm pretty well convinced, are the future of how we try to make the world wider through using the web. But the trick with bridges is, ultimately, you need someone to cross them. And that's where we start talking about xenophiles. So if I found myself in the NFL, I suspect I would spend my off-season nursing my wounds, enjoying my house, so on and so forth — possibly recording a hip-hop album. Dhani Jones, who is the middle linebacker for the Cincinnati Bengals, has a slightly different approach to the off-season. Dhani has a television show. It's called ""Dhani Tackles the Globe."" And every week on this television show, Dhani travels to a different nation of the world. He finds a local sporting team. He trains with them for a week, and he plays a match with them. And his reason for this is not just that he wants to master Muay Thai boxing. It's because, for him, sport is the language that allows him to encounter the full width and wonder of the world. For some of us it might be music. For some of us it might be food. For a lot of us it might be literature or writing. But there are all these different techniques that allow you to go out and look at the world and find your place within it. The goal of my Talk here is not to persuade the people in this room to embrace your xenophilia. My guess — given that you're at a conference called TEDGlobal — is that most of you are xenophiles, whether or not you use that term. My challenge instead is this. It's not enough to make the personal decision that you want a wider world. We have to figure out how to rewire the systems that we have. We have to fix our media. We have to fix the internet. We have to fix our education. We have to fix our immigration policy. We need to look at ways of creating serendipity, of making translation pervasive, and we need to find ways to embrace and celebrate these bridge figures. And we need to figure out how to cultivate xenophiles. That's what I'm trying to do. I need your help. (Applause)"	"身為美國人，意味著一般而言，我不關心足球，除非涉及到和我或Bruno身材相當的人用飛快的速度朝對方奔去也就是說，到目前為止非常難不關注足球在過去的幾週時間我上了Twitter，看到好多我從來沒見過的字FIFA, vuvuzela,關於章魚的奇怪笑話但是其中真正讓我感到壓力的我沒辦法了解意思的是這個詞：""Cala a boca, Galvao.""如果你在過去幾週上過Twitter你應該看過這個詞這個詞已經變成主要的流行話題 身為一個只會講英文的美國人，我當然不了解這個詞的涵意所以我上了Twitter請人向我解釋""Cala a boca, Galvao.""的意思很幸運地，我的巴西朋友們非常樂意幫忙他們向我解釋，高爾文鳥是一種稀有且瀕臨絕種的鸚鵡正處於非常非常危急的境地我讓他們來向你們更詳細的說明旁白：用一句話來描述高爾文鳥，就是這是一種即為稀少的鳥類原生於巴西每年，有超過三十萬隻的的高爾文鳥在嘉年華會的遊行中被殺害顯然，這是一個悲慘的局面而且還正在惡化當中事實證明，高爾文鸚鵡不僅是非常迷人，可以用做頭飾它顯然還具有讓人產生幻覺的特質這意味著產生了一個嚴重的問題就是高爾文的濫用有些病態扭曲的人會吸食高爾文鳥而這樣非常危險好消息是全球的社群我的巴西朋友們接著告訴我正在設法對此伸出援手而且Lady Gaga已經發行了一首新單曲實際上，就我所知是五到六首新單曲以""Cala a boca, Galvao.""作為歌名接著我的巴西朋友們告訴我只要我在Twitter上發佈 ""Cala a boca, Galvao,""就會有十分美金捐贈給一個全球的活動以協助拯救這些稀少且美麗的鳥類 現在，你們多數已經發現這是一個騙局而且是非常非常好的一個騙局""Cala a boca, Galvao""實際上是有著完全不同的意思在葡萄文中，意謂著「Galvao，閉上你的嘴！」而且特指這個人，Galvao Bueno巴西環球電視台的體育主持人而就我從我巴西朋友們的了解這個人就只會講些陳腔爛調能把比賽的樂趣完全抹煞掉只會不斷地說著一樣的東西所以巴西人去看了他們的第一場對戰北韓的球賽拉起了這面旗幟，開始了Twitter的活動然後試著說服其他的人去Twitter上發""Cala a boca, Galvao.""而且，這個活動非常成功甚至在Twitter上稱霸了兩個禮拜 現在，這裡有一些有一些我們可以從中學習的啟示首先，我覺得值得學習的是呼籲人們在網路上活躍是不會錯的只要活躍意指著僅需要在Twitter上轉發只要所要求的活躍程度這麼的簡單就很容易成功另外一件我們可以學到的是Twitter上有很多巴西人有超過五百萬的巴西人在上面就國家的總人口來算有百分之十一有上網的巴西人在使用Twitter這個數字比美國或英國都高得多僅次於日本是人口比例第二高的 現在你可能正在使用Twitter或其他的社群網絡但你可能從未意識到巴西人在其中佔了一席之地就像大多數的我們都沒有意識到一樣因為在社群網站裡你所互動的這些人是你選擇要和他們互動的人如果你和我一樣，是個魁武熱愛科技、美國的白人偏好和一群一樣熱愛科技的美國白人進行互動那麼你就不會發現Twitter其實是個充斥著巴西人的地方另外也讓很多美國人感到吃驚的是Twitter也是個充斥著美國黑人的地方Twitter最近做了一些調查研究使用者的地域分布情況調查結果表示，24%的美國Twitter使用者是黑人以黑人在美國總人口數的比例來看這個數字是其比例的兩倍又一次的，這對多數Twitter使用者來說非常震驚但其實不該如此的而不該感到震驚的原因，是因為每一天你都可以在熱門話題排行榜中找到排行在前的話題幾乎都是黑人的對話 這是Fernando Viegas和Martin Wattenberg所做數據視覺化兩個優秀的視覺化設計家針對一週的Twitter流量所做的研究發現了很多排行榜中的熱門話題都是種族區隔類的話題你應該想不到像是「石油外洩」就是偏白人的對話內容而「野炊」則是偏黑人的對話內容其中最瘋狂的是如果你想在Twitter參與不同的討論只要點一下滑鼠就能做到你點「野炊」的標籤，然後就會出現一個完全不同的對話系列包括有很多不同的人參與討論但一般而言，我們多數人都不會這麼做我們會用一個個的過濾泡泡（我朋友Eli Pariser取的）我們只和已認識的人互動或是有相同話題的朋友的朋友我們的視野常被侷限住 我對這種現象感到吃驚因為這不應該是網路如果回到過去網路剛興起的時代當像是Nick Negroponte這樣的網路烏托邦者撰寫像是《數位革命》這樣的大作預測網路會成為不可限量的強大力量來化解文化間的隔閡讓所有人處在一個共同的平台Negroponte以一個故事作為書的開頭講述在一個原子構成的世界中建立彼此的連接是多麼地困難他在佛羅里達參加一個關於科技的會議然後他發現了放在桌上的Evian礦泉水接著Negroponte說這實在是太瘋狂了這根本是舊經濟體系這種經濟體系是把這些沈重又緩慢的原子在遙遠的距離下，非常困難地進行運輸我們正邁向位元時代所有的東西會變得很快速、沒有重量可以在任何時間出現在世界的任何地方像我們所知的，將改變整個世界 現在來看，很多Negroponte的預測都實現了但在一件事上他完全錯了實際上在很多情況下原子其實比位元的移動性更好當我走進美國的一家商店要買一瓶水非常容易這瓶水是在斐濟裝瓶的以極高的運費運到了美國相對的，要我去看斐濟拍製的電影卻非常地難要我聽斐濟的音樂，也很困難要看到斐濟的新聞，對我來說就更難了但這是很奇怪的，因為斐濟其實發生了很多事件有政府政變、有軍事政府有對媒體的掃蕩行動斐濟其實是一個我們現在應該關注的地方 我覺得是這麼回事但我們通常只看見全球化的大架構我們看見在這個相互連接的世界中讓連接成為可能的大架構這個架構包括像是飛機航線包括網路電纜我們用這種方式看地圖看起來世界好像是平的因為每個點只要跳個一、兩次你可以從倫敦搭飛機當晚的就能到印度再跳一次，你就到了斐濟的首都蘇瓦就是這麼的近 但當你再仔細看究竟這些網絡如何流動的會發現非常不一樣的情況從觀察全球班機的移動路線開始你會突然發現，世界根本談不上是平的而是極端集中分布的世界的有些地方的連接是非常方便的像倫敦跟紐約之間基本上就是有一個在空中的巨大通道但再看這個地圖你可以看它個兩三分鐘你會發現從南美洲到非洲並沒有很多班機而且你會發現，世界上有些地方被切斷了連結當我們將眼光從促使連結發生的大架構轉移到實際發生的情況我們會開始發現，世界其實並不是以我們想像的方式在運作 所以這就是我在過去的近十年很感興趣的問題世界其實變得更加全球化更緊密地連接更多問題以全球的規模出現我們的經濟更加全球化我們的媒體則越來越不全球化當你看1970年代的美國電視節目晚間新聞裡，會有35%-40%的內容會是國際新聞現在則降到百分之12到15了而這扭曲了我們的世界觀這裡有一張Alisa Miller在TED Talk用的投影片Alisa是國際公共廣播的執行長她做了一個示意圖，基本上就是根據美國電視新聞一個月內所播報的內容做的變形地圖然後你可以發現，當根據新聞內容量來調整地圖美國電視新聞的世界基本上可以簡略成這個巨大膨脹的美國還有一些我們侵略的國家這基本上就是我們媒體的現狀這大概就是美國電視新聞的作用這很可怕，我同意，下結論前我也做了像是紐約時報這種主流媒體的地圖然後我發現一樣的結論在你看紐約時報或其他主流媒體時大部分能看見的就是非常富有國家的部分還有我們所侵略的國家 而這些新媒體並沒有幫忙什麼忙這是Mark Graham做的地圖他就在這附近的牛津網際網路研究中心這是維基百科中文章的地域分類所得的地圖然後你會發現，有很大的比重都是在北美和西歐現在維基百科已經可以讓我們上網自行編輯內容但維基百科的作者國籍還是有嚴重的偏向而不是全世界平均分布在英國，我們可以站起來你可以在演講結束後，打開你的電腦你可以讀印度、澳洲或加拿大的新聞美國的報紙就不用說了但你應該也不會讀的如果來看網路媒體的使用習慣在網路使用率最高的十國裡有超過95%的新聞閱讀都是讀取自己國家的網站這是少數美國比英國略好之處因為我們的確喜歡讀你們的媒體而不是我們自己的 而這些現象讓我開始思考我們現在所處的狀況其實是我所說的假想的世界主義我們上網認為我們有廣闊的全球觀我們偶爾會看見一個中國的網頁然後覺得我們的確有最先進的科技來把我們連接到世界的其他地方但我們通常上網都是看波士頓紅襪隊的比分所以，這是個實際的問題不只是紅襪隊今年賽績不佳這是個實際的問題，因為當我們在TED上討論的時候世界上實際的問題需要去解決的有趣問題是在全球的規模和範圍上需要有全球性的對話來找出全球性的解決之道這是我們必須去解決的問題 因此，好消息來了六年來，我一直和這些傢伙混在一起這是個叫做全球之聲的組織包括了世界各地的部落客我們的目標是要整頓世界的媒體從2004年開始你可能有注意到，我們至今沒有做的太好我們自己也不這麼覺得我們真能解決這問題我思考的越多，越覺得有幾件我們在過程中學到的事是為我們要重新接通世界的有趣學習如果我們想要以網路來看到更廣闊的世界首先需要去思考的是世界上的這個部份從關注度來說的黑點就此來看，美國太空總署做的夜間世界地圖這部份因為缺少電力，從字面來說就是黑的而我以前總認為這些在地圖上的黑點代表在那個地方，你不會看見媒體的存在因為他們有基礎的需求需要被滿足 我慢慢開始了解其實你可以獲取媒體，只是很費工夫而且你需要很大的鼓勵黑點之一是馬達加斯加一個因為夢工廠電影而被熟知的國家而不是因為它真正的特色—可愛的居民所以在馬達加斯加的Foko俱樂部裡的人並沒有想要改變他們國家的形象他們要做的事非常簡單就是一個學習英文的俱樂部並學習使用電腦和網路但馬達加斯加當時發生了政治暴動多數的獨立媒體都關閉了而透過Foko俱樂部學習使用部落格的高中生突然發現他們正面對國際讀者談論關於示威、暴力這個國家正在發生的所有事件因此，一個非常小型的計畫讓人們坐在電腦前發表自己的想法、發表獨立的媒體結果產生了巨大的影響讓我們更了解了這個國家 現在，這個詭計在於，我推測在座的大多數人都不說馬達加斯加語我也推測你們大多數甚至不說中文想想其實有點悲哀因為中文是現在網路上最具代表性的語言好在人們正在試著去解決這個問題如果你用Google Chrome瀏覽一個中文網站你會發現在上方有個很可愛的小框可以自動偵測到這個網頁是中文的然後只要點一下滑鼠就能很快的幫你翻譯這個網頁很遺憾的，這是個機器翻譯當Google非常精通某些語言的同時它對中文的翻譯卻很糟糕所以翻譯的結果可能相當滑稽你真正想要的，也是我真正希望的是最終可以按下一個按鈕讓這個頁面進行排序然後讓一個真正的人來進行翻譯 如果你認為這很荒謬，其實並不是現在中國有個組織叫譯言譯言是個擁有15萬義工的組織他們天天上網尋找最有趣的英文內容他們每天大概翻譯一百篇文章來源有主要的報紙和網站他們免費發佈翻譯的作品這是個名叫張雷所開始的專案他在拉薩暴動期間住在美國對於美國媒體的偏差報導感到難以置信然後他說「我能做的，就是開始翻譯讓國與國之間能開始對彼此有更深的了解」而我想問各位的是譯言可以聚集15萬人一起把英文的網頁翻譯成中文那麼英文版的譯言在哪裡？現在中國已有四億的網路用戶誰來翻譯中文的網頁我想在他們之中，至少有一個人能分享有趣的故事 因此，即使我們能找到翻譯中文的方法並無法保證我們能找到那個有趣的內容當我們在網路上尋找資訊時我們通常有兩個策略我們用很多的搜尋如果你知道你在找什麼，搜尋是非常棒的但如果你正在找的是意外的新發現如果你沒有特別想找的或並不知道你其實需要的東西我們的指導原則是去看我們的社群網路去找我們的朋友他們在看什麼？也許我們也應該看一下這個問題在於你最後所得到的是眾人之智你最終就是跟隨一大群跟你相似、有相同興趣的人討論你們共同的興趣所以當其他的群體、世界其他角落的人聚在一起討論他們的興趣時我們卻很難加入他們的話題要做到這點，你需要另一個人來帶領你走出原本的群落你需要一個嚮導 Amira Al Hussaini就是這樣的一個嚮導。她是全球之聲的中東編輯她有世界上最難的工作之一她不僅要避免以色列和巴勒斯坦成員互相廝殺她還要知道你對中東的什麼議題感興趣才能將身為聽眾的你拉出你的群落並試著讓你關注一個在回教齋月期間一個回民戒煙的故事她必須了解全球的聽眾她必須了解有什麼故事題材是可用的基本上，她就是一個DJ她是個厲害的人類策展人知道能討論什麼題材、能夠傾聽觀眾的聲音、並且能夠做出篩選然後促使人們前進我不覺得這需要一個演算的過程我覺得網絡最棒的地方就是它真的能讓DJ能更容易地去接觸到更廣的聽眾我認識Amira我可以請她推薦我但有了網路，她就可以主動的推薦更多人要讀什麼內容如果你對這樣的方法感興趣你也可以聽她的，擴展你的人際網路 當你開始像這樣拓展當你開始點亮這些黑點的聲音當你開始翻譯、當你開始策劃你最終會到一些非常美妙的地方這是一張從AfriGadget找來的圖片我最喜歡的部落格之一這個部落格是從非洲的角度來看科技更詳細的說，照片這個人是肯亞的一個鐵匠他把Landrover的車軸打造成一個鑿子當你看到這個圖片，你可能會想「我為什麼要關心這個？」實際上，這傢伙可以為你做出解釋這是Erik Hersman。你們可能在會議中見過他他綽號是白非洲人非常有名的美籍科技狂熱者但他同時也是肯亞人；在蘇丹出生，肯亞長大他是一個橋樑式的人物他是真正涉足在兩個世界的人一個是非洲的科技社群世界一個是美國的科技社群世界所以他能夠告訴你肯亞鐵匠的故事並且將其轉化為一個關於再利用技術的故事關於從限制中創新關於從再利用的材料中尋找靈感他了解一個世界並尋求和另一個世界溝通的方式兩個他都有很深聯繫的世界我很相信，這些橋樑式的人物是透過網路讓世界變得更寬廣的希望 但在根本上，橋樑的關鍵在於你需要一個人去跨越它們這裡我們開始來談喜歡國外事物的人如果我在美式足球聯盟打球我想我在休賽期間會養傷、在家享受子之類的也許錄製一張嘻哈專輯Dhani Jones是(辛辛那提)孟加拉虎隊的中線衛他在休賽期間有著不太一樣的計畫Dhani負責一個電視節目叫做「Dhani跑地球」每週的節目中Dhani會到世界上的不同國家旅行他參加當地的運動隊參加為期一週的訓練，然後和他們一起競賽而他這麼做的原因並不只是因為他想要學會泰國拳而是因為對他來說運動是一種語言讓他可以體驗世界上的廣度和奇蹟對有些人而言，這語言可能是透過音樂、透過食物對大多數人而言，可能是文學或寫作但是有這麼多種不同的方法可以讓你走出去，看這個世界並找到自己在這個世界的位置 我今天演講的目標並不是要說服在在場的各位去擁抱你心中喜歡國外事物的因子我想既然你們都來了TED全球論壇各位大多數都是喜歡國外事物的人不管你們是不是用這個詞我的挑戰是一個人決定想要一個更廣闊的世界是不足夠的我們需要設法找出重整現有的系統的方法我們必須校正我們的媒體我們需要校正網路，我們需要校正教育我們需要校正我們的移民政策我們需要著眼於能創造新發現的方法讓翻譯唾手可得的方法我們需要找到擁抱、歡慶這些橋樑性人物的方式然後還需要找出，培養我們喜歡國外事物的因子這就是我希望要做的，而我需要你的幫忙 （掌聲）"
