Talk	en	zh-tw
euvin_naidoo_on_investing_in_africa	"Welcome to Africa! Or rather, I should say, welcome home. Because this is where it all really began, isn't it? Looking at fossils dating back several millions of years — it all points to evidence that life for the human species as we know it began right here. We are on an amazing journey the next four days. You're going to hear stories of ""Africa: The Next Chapter."" Fantastic tales, anecdotes from speakers. But I want to turn that upside down for a moment, and get something out on the table and clear the air so to say. What's the worst thing you've ever heard about Africa? And this is not a rhetorical question. I actually want answers from you. Go for it! The worst. Famine. Corruption. More. Genocide. AIDS. Slavery. That's enough. We've all heard these things. But this is about Africa, the story we have not heard. The stories that we want to know, and the stories that do exist about positive tales. A part of my talk is going to be about investment opportunities that exist on this continent, to separate the rhetoric from the reality, the fact from the fiction. To go to the actual data and statistics that exist about the actual things that are happening on the ground that make Africa a realistic investment opportunity and option for you. So let's get going because Africa, to some degree, is on a turnaround. A turnaround in terms of how it manages its image, and how it takes control of its own destiny. And turnarounds are part and parcel of what I have focused on for most of my professional career. And it all started almost a decade ago, as a young consultant at McKinsey & Company at their first African office in Johannesburg. And there we worked with leading CEOs on African issues, and African companies on turnarounds, making the companies not just the best in Africa but the best globally. But I really formalized this focus on turnarounds when I was completing my MBA in the United States. It all began with a fantastic phone call. It was from Rosabeth Moss Kanter, Harvard Business School guru and a professor of mine. And she said, ""I want to write a case, Euvin — a case on a public-sector leader that has lessons for the corporate world."" And the leader that came to mind was Nelson Mandela. Because Nelson Mandela, as he took over power as the first democratically-elected president of South Africa, faced a situation of a country that could have slid into the abyss of chaos. But he started the country on a path of a positive cycle. Now the case, ""Nelson Mandela: Change Leader,"" became part of the research base for a chapter in Rosabeth's new book called ""Confidence."" And ""Confidence"" became a New York Times bestseller and topped Business Week's hardcover bestseller list. And why I tell you this story is because later, when I was interviewed on SABC Africa, on a pan-African broadcast, they asked, ""What is your key lesson, or the key thing you enjoy the most?"" — because it was a huge privilege to be part of such a project. The lesson from that was that it was Africa — an African story — that was used to share news with the rest of the world of what the benchmark can be for corporate turnarounds. Africa was being used as a success story! So I want to share with you a personal story about a turnaround or a transformation. And that has to do with me because in 1994, I packed a few things into a backpack and headed off for a year of travel in the middle of my university career. You should have seen my parents' reaction! (Laughter) But very soon, I found myself from the southern part of Africa, in South Africa — at the very north, in Egypt. And I sought out the most remote places. I went to the Siwa Oasis. That was one of my stops. And the Siwa Oasis is famous for several things, but the key thing is that it was the place that Alexander the Great went to when he wanted to find out what his destiny had in store for him. And legend has it that Alexander trekked through this desert. Half his battalion was wiped out in the sandstorm. And myth says that he had an audience with the oracle, and it foretold his destiny of greatness. This was 300 BC. So Africa had long been seen as a place to go to for answers. Now, the thing I remember about Siwa was the magical view of the sky at night. With no natural light source, Siva is one of these amazing places that when you look up you see a perfect tapestry. Fast forward to 2002. I'm sitting in Cambridge, Massachusetts at the Healthcare Development Conference. And I see the same picture, but from the opposite side. A satellite picture looking down at the earth. And it was that picture that made such a profound impact on me because I'll never forget it. I remember the very moment. And I wanted to share that image with you of what I saw at that point. The first thing that I saw was North America at night — glowing, in all its glory. A warm feeling. Light. And then I saw it — Africa. Quite literally the ""Dark Continent."" And while Africa may be dark, the thing that brought the message home to me was that this is the challenge we are facing, but it's also the opportunity. Because whilst Africa may be dark — other than the few specks that exist north and in the south and other areas — it's aglow with the light in the hearts of the millions of people that are there. Entrepreneurs, dynamic people, people with hope. It was George Kimble, the geographer, who said that, ""The only thing dark about Africa is our ignorance of it."" So let's start shedding light on this amazing eclectic continent that has so much to offer. Let's start unpacking it. Africa is the second-largest continent, a landmass second from Asia. It also is the second most populated continent, with 900 million people. In fact — coming back to the land mass — Africa is so big that you could fit in the continental United States, China, and the entire Europe into Africa, and still have space. Africa is home to over 1,000 languages — 2,000 is another estimate that's out there — with over 2,000 languages and dialects. But you could say, ""Invest in Africa in over 1,000 languages, and it wouldn't make a difference."" What does the data say? As an investment banker, I'm in the cross-flow of information and the changes that are taking place in capital markets. So I want to share with you some of these bellwether signals, or signs, and winds of change that are sweeping this continent. So let's start on that. And let's start at the high level, on the macro-factors. Inflation, in general, is coming down across Africa — that's the first sign — in many countries reaching double-digit figures. So let's start looking at some of those. I call it my Z.E.N. cluster. Zambia: from 2004 to 2006, moves from the 18 percent in inflation to the nine percent. Egypt: from the 16 percent to about 8.4 percent. Nigeria: a similar situation, from the 16 percent to the eight percent. Single digits. More fascinating, you have other countries — South Africa, Mauritius, Namibia — all in single digits. But that's just part of the story. You have a similar trend with currencies — currencies going through an extreme time of stability. But that's looking at the big picture. And the first myth to dispel is that Africa is not a country. It's made up — (Applause) It's made up of 53 different countries. So the very definition — to say ""invest in Africa"" is a no-go. It's meaningless. Each country has a unique value proposition. You can make money, you can lose money in Africa. But opportunities, boy oh boy, they exist. And this is what today is about — it's about discussing those very opportunities. So let's start getting into the countries and into the specific material and data. I was recently elected, as Emeka mentioned, as the President of the South African Chamber of Commerce in America. And I'm very proud and happy to be in that role because it is a fascinating position to be in. To hear this dialogue that's just increasing in tenor and velocity, of decisions about trade and companies wanting to come. So the first port of call: let's talk a little bit about South Africa. But not the South Africa we always talk about — the gold, the minerals, the First World infrastructure — a bit about the other side of it. For example, South Africa was recently voted as the top destination for the top 1,000 UK companies for offshore call-centers. Same language, timeline, et cetera. Makes sense. Other headlines that have recently reached South Africa were Bain Capital and KKR, the big boys of private equity. Headline in South Africa: ""They have landed."" Quite ominous. But what were they there for? To acquire assets. Bing Capital's acquisition of Edcon, a large retailer, is testimony to the confidence they are starting to place in the economy. Because it is actually a long-term play. Being a retailer, it is a play on the belief that this middle-class that's growing will continue to grow, that the boom and the confidence in consumer spending will continue. But the story of Africa, and my focus, is beyond South Africa because there's so much happening. Undoubtedly, Nigeria is clearly a hot spot. Challenges — and we will hear a lot about Nigeria in these four days. But looking at Goldman Sachs' work — we had the famous BRIC Report. The new report, ""The Next Eleven,"" highlights that by 2020 Nigeria is going to be amongst the top 10 economies in the world. It's an investment opportunity. Think about that. Is anyone — our banks, our investors — seriously thinking about going to Nigeria? If you haven't, why not? What's going on in Nigeria? A couple of things. I want to talk about it from the perspective of capital markets. Bellwether signs again. Guarantee Trust Bank recently issued the first Euro Bond out of Africa, and this excludes South Africa. But the first Eurobond, the raising of international capital offshore, off its own balance sheet, without any sovereign backing — that is an indication of the confidence that is taking place in that economy. Without any sovereign backing, a Nigerian company raising capital offshore. It's just a sign of things to come. Looking at the oil industry, Africa provides 18 percent of the U.S.'s oil supply, with the Middle East just 16 percent. It's an important strategic partner. Let's put Nigeria in perspective. 2.2 to 2.4 million barrels of oil a day — the same league as Kuwait, the same league as Venezuela. But with Africa, let's start being careful about this. And Emeka and I have had these discussions. We have to move away from what's called ""the curse of the commodities."" Because it's not about oil, it's not about commodities. For Africa to truly be sustainable, we have to move beyond to other industries. So let's unpack those very quickly, and I'm going to move through these very, very, very fast because I can see that clock counting down. What else is going on there? Egypt. Egypt is launching a first large industrial zone — 2.8 billion investment. The announcement just came out the last few weeks. Close to the Mediterranean, near Alexandria — textiles, petrochemicals. It's being managed by a Singaporean-based management company. So they want to emerge as an industrial powerhouse across the industries — away from oil. Let's look at agriculture. Let's look at forestry. What's going on there? In Tanzania last week, we had the launch of the East African Organic Produce Standard. Again, gathering together farmers, gathering together stakeholders in East Africa to get standards for organic produce. Better prices. It ties in with small-scale farmers in terms of no pesticides, no fertilizers. Again, opportunity to tackle markets to get that higher price. Uganda: the New Forest Company, replanting and redeveloping their forests. Why is that important? As the energy needs are met and electricity is needed [we will need] poles for rolling out electricity. But here is the sweetener in the deal. They're going to be tapping into carbon credits. Let's go back to Nigeria. The banking sector has undergone tremendous transformation, from over 80 banks to 25 banks. Strengthening of the system. But what's going on there? Only 10 percent of the country is banked. The largest population in Africa is in Nigeria. 135 million-plus people. Think about that. There are only 700 ATMs in the country. Opportunity. The same for telecoms across the country. Now let's look at the continent as a whole. People look at the roads, for example, and they'd say, ""Angola: 90 percent of roads are untarred. Ah, problem!"" It's more expensive to transport goods. Prices of goods go up, inflation is affected. Nigeria: 70 percent of roads are untarred. Zambia: 80 percent. In general, more than 50 percent of roads are untarred. This is an opportunity! Energy needs — it's an opportunity. So what are the signs that things are fundamentally changing? Let's look at the stock markets in Africa. If I had to ask you, ""In 2005 what was the best performing stock market or stock exchange in the world?"" Would Egypt come to mind? In 2005, the Egyptian stock exchange returned over 145 percent. What's going on in some of the other countries? Let's look at some 2006 numbers. Kenya: over 60 percent. Nigeria: over 40 percent. South Africa: in the 20 percents. High ones. These are the trends that are taking place. But in any investment decision, the key question is, ""What is my alternative investment?"" Because in Africa today, we are competing globally for capital. And global capital is agnostic — it has no loyalties. There's an overhang of capital in the U.S., and the key is yield pickup. What Africa is providing is a diversification play, and also opportunities for yield pickup for the investor that's aware of what he or she is doing. Now, when looking at Africa vis-a-vis other things, and countries in Africa vis-a-vis other things, comparisons become important. 10 years ago there, were very few countries that received sovereign ratings from the Standard & Poors, Moody's and Fitch's. Today, 16 African countries and growing have sovereign country ratings. What does this mean? Take Nigeria again: double B-minus — in the league of Ukraine and Turkey. Immediately we have a comparison. The backbone of making investment decisions for global holders of capital. Some other figures. South Africa: triple B-plus. Botswana: A-plus. Bakino Faso: B-minus. And so on. In fact, one of the big agencies is setting up an office in Africa. Why are they doing that? Because they expect investment to follow. So one of the big bellwethers, and one of my final points I want to mention, is the interesting thing I read is that CNBC has launched their first African channel. Why is CNBC doing this? It's the 24-hour rolling African news channel. They're doing it because they are expecting things to happen. Me and you, the investments we are going to be making, the investments the world is going to be making — that's the 24-hour news channel dedicated to Africa. So that's the change that's coming down the pipeline. So in conclusion, I want to turn back to that very slide that made such a deep impact on me all those years ago. This time [I'll] give you the entire picture that I saw in 2002, and ask you that when you think about what your role can be in Africa, think about your journey in terms of bringing light to this continent. Because there are amazing opportunities available. And think about the concept of transformation in the back of your mind because things can be turned around rather quickly. In 1899, Joseph Conrad released ""The Heart of Darkness,"" a tale of grim horror along the Congo River. If one looks carefully, on the Congo River is one of those bright lights. And that's the very Congo river generating light — the old heart of darkness now generating light with hydro-electric power. That is a transformation in power of ideas. So the next step, over the next four days, is us exploring more of these ideas. And perchance, if you can always keep this picture in your mind, that when we convene maybe in the distant future, in 2020, that picture will look very different. Thank you. (Applause)"	歡迎來到非洲！或者不如說，歡迎回家。因為這裡是生命起源的地方，不是嗎？這裡數百萬年前的化石 —就是生命的證據即是人類種族起源的地方。接下來的四天 我們會踏上一趟奇妙的旅程。下面的章節中，你們會聽到關於非洲的故事。各位講者帶來的奇聞軼事。但之前我還是想把順序顛倒一下，讓我們先把一些事情攤到檯面上，開誠佈公的談談。你們聽到的關於非洲最糟糕的是什麽？這可不是反問句哦。我確實想聽到你們的答案。大膽說吧！最糟的是啥。饑荒。腐敗。還有。種族屠殺。艾滋病。奴隸制度。可以了。 我們都聽到過這些事兒。但今天要談的，是我們從未聽聞的關於非洲的事。那些我們想瞭解的，真實存在具有正面意義的故事。也是我演講的內容關於在這片大陸上的投資機會。拋開懷疑和謠傳，讓我們回到現實和真實。用真實的統計數據來客觀地瞭解這片土地上湧現的投資機會和選擇。因為非洲處於，某種程度上的，變革之中。關於它如何管理自己的形象，掌握自己命運的變革。而變革是局部和小幅度的，就我職業生涯中所關注的重要領域來說。大概十年前，我還只是麥肯錫一名年輕的諮詢師在約翰内斯堡的首個非洲辦事處。 我們和各企業總裁一起工作研究在變革中的非洲和非洲企業 —幫助這些企業成為不僅是非洲，也是全球最好的公司。但我真正開始關注變革是我在美國剛完成MBA學業的時候。我接到一個特別的電話。是羅莎白•摩絲•坎特，哈佛商學院的領軍人物，同時也是我的導師。她說：『Euvin, 我想寫個案例 —關於公共事業部門領袖的案例這些案例對企業界很有借鑒意義。』我第一個想到的領導人就是納爾遜•曼德拉。因為他是南非首個民主選舉推出的總統，執政時國家正處於混亂深淵的邊緣。但是他首先把國家推向正性循環的軌道中。 現在這個案例，『曼德拉：變革型領導』，成為羅莎白新書的一個章節那本書名為：《信心：創造成功的循環》。是紐約時報的暢銷書并列入《商業週刊》的精裝書暢銷榜中。爲什麽提到這個故事呢？因為在那之後不久，我就面試了SABC公司SABC是一個泛非洲的廣播公司，面試中他們問到，『在這個案例中你學到了什麽，或者你最喜歡什麽？』—能編寫這樣一個案例實屬榮幸。我學到的東西就是非洲，非洲的故事，和其他國家想分享的訊息就是什麽是企業變革的標杆。而非洲就是這樣一個成功的案例！ 我想和大家分享我個人的故事和關於變革或者轉變的故事。這事情就發生在我身上。在1994年，我打包好行李開始長達一年的旅行那還是我大學進行到一半的時候。你們可以想像我父母的反應了！ （笑） 不久，我從非洲南部 —南非 — 來到了非洲的最北端，埃及。我去最偏僻的地方。來到了錫瓦綠洲-我其中的一個落腳點。錫瓦綠洲之所以出名有很多因素，但我去的最主要原因是因為亞歷山大大帝來過此處尋找他的神諭。傳說中，亞歷山大長途跋涉穿過這片沙漠。大半的部隊都淹沒在沙塵暴中。在神話中，他接見了一個帶著神喻的人，它預言了亞歷山大偉大的命運。這是公元300年前的事。所以非洲自古以來就是一個尋求答案的地方。 我記憶中的關於錫瓦的就是它迷人夜色天空。沒有非自然的光源，錫瓦是這樣一個迷人的地方一抬頭就看見絲絨般的完美星空。快速轉到了2002。當我坐在坎布裡奇，馬薩諸州參加健康發展會議的時候。我看到了同樣的圖片，但那是從另一個角度。是一張俯瞰地球的衛星照片。這張照片對我影響深遠至今令我無法忘懷，那一刻就記住了。我想和大家分享那刻我看到的景色。第一個圖片是我看到的北美的夜景 —光芒四射，充滿榮耀。非常溫馨。看那光。 然後我看到了這張圖片 — 非洲，毫不誇張的『黑暗大陸』。那一刻非洲是黑暗的，而我帶回家的訊息是這是我們面臨的挑戰，但也是個機遇。因為非洲可能是黑暗的 — 相對於它的北面、南面或者地區上的其他地方 —相對於那些燈火通明的核心地區成千上萬的人民。企業家、精力充沛的人民、充滿希望的人民。正如地理學家喬治•金布力所說“我們覺得非洲只有黑色，根源是我們的無知”讓我們開始照亮這片大陸如此富饒的大陸。 讓我們揭開她的面紗吧。非洲是次於亞洲的世界第二大陸。人口居世界第二，擁有9億人口。實際上，從陸地面積看 —非洲如此之大以至 —可以裝下整個美國，中國和整個歐洲，還有空地。非洲有超過1000種語言 —也有人估計2000 —有超過2000鐘語言加上方言。你可能會說：『在超過1000種語言的非洲投資，白費力氣。』然而數據怎麼說呢？作為一個投資銀行家， 我總處於各種交錯的信息中處於瞬息萬變的資本市場。所以我想和你分享這些變革前的預兆，或者說訊號，和這片大陸的變化的訊息。 讓我們從這開始。從高層次的宏觀因素入手。一般來看，整個非洲的通貨膨脹都在下降 —這是第一個訊號 —許多國家已經達到兩位數的通貨膨脹。我們看下這些數據。我稱它們為：Z.E.N集合。Z：贊比亞，從2004到2006年，通貨膨脹從18%降低到9%的通脹率。E：埃及，由16%降低到8.4%N：尼日利亞，情況相同：從16%降低到8%。個位數。更有意思的是，其他國家 — 如南非，毛里求斯和納米比亞 — 通脹都是個位數。這只是部份情況。貨幣也有類似趨勢 —貨幣已經度過了極端的時期慢慢趨於平穩。這是宏觀層面。首先，第一個更正的觀念是，非洲並不是一個國家。它只是一個統稱 — （掌聲） 它是由53個不同的國家組成。所以可以肯定，說『投資非洲』完全不合適。也無意義。因為每個國家都有其獨特的主張。在非洲你可能賺到錢，也可能賠錢。但是機會，大傢伙啊，大傢伙，還是存在的。這就是我們今天要探討的 —探討這些機會。讓我們開始看這些國家用具體的材料和數據來說話。我最近被推選為，有如Emeka提到，北美南非商會會長。當選此位令我驕傲和欣喜因為它是一個很有吸引力的職位。我說這些話只是想促進那些，想來非洲發展的公司。第一個讓我們談談關於南非的事情。但不是關於我們常說的南非 —那些黃金、礦產和一流的基礎設施建設 —談的是與這些無關的東西。 例如：南非最近被1000家英國公司評選為最佳離岸呼叫中心相同的語言、時區等，這毫無疑問。最近南非的頭條新聞是私募領域大佬貝恩資本和KKR資本抵達南非。南非的新聞頭條是：『他們來了！』非常悲觀。但他們去那裡幹嘛呢？爲了獲得資產。獲取Edcon公司的股份，Edcon是當地一家很大的零售商這些事實表明他們開始了他們的商業進程。因為這是一個真正的長期投資。作為一家零售商，他堅信中產階層的數目會持續增加，消費者消費的繁榮和信心也會增加。但是關於非洲的故事，我關注的交點，卻非南非因為還有太多正在發生的事情毫無疑問，尼日利亞是一個明顯的熱點。挑戰-下來四天我們將會聽到更多關於尼日利亞的事情。 但看看高盛投資做的工作-我們有著名的“金磚四國”報告最新報告，'N-11'，凸顯出2020年尼日利亞會成為世界前10位的經濟體。這是一個投資機會，考慮下。有沒有人 — 我們的銀行家，我们的投資者 —認真考慮去尼日利亞呢？如果你還沒有，爲什麽不呢？尼日利亞正在發生什麽事情？很多。我想從資本市場的角度討論這個。接著從領先企業的信號來看看。信託擔保銀行最近發行第一個歐洲債券在非洲之外，但不包括南非。第一個歐洲債券，促使了國際離岸資本拋開了自己的收支平衡，沒有國家主權的擔保 —這是對經濟體充滿信心的信號。沒有國家主權的支持，一家尼日利亞公司吸引到離岸資本。這是對將要發生變化的訊號。 看看石油工業，非洲提供了18%美國石油供應量，而中東只有16%非洲是一個很重要的戰略夥伴。我們全面地看下尼日利亞。每日產220到240萬加侖石油。和科威特、委內瑞拉持平。但在非洲，我們開始謹慎對待這個事情。Emeka 和我曾經討論過這個事情。我們不得不離開被稱為『日用品的詛咒』因為它無關乎石油，無關乎日用品。對非洲而言真正需要的是可持續性，我們必須跨出到其他行業。 我們也將會很快的擺脫掉，我也在非常非常迅速地遠離這些領域，因為我也看見開始倒計時了。非洲還在發生些什麽？埃及。埃及正在發展一個大工業區 —投資28個億。這個消息發佈于幾周前。此區域靠近地中海，臨近亞歷山大港 —面對紡織品、石油化學品。正被一個新加坡管理公司管理。所以他們想成為一個工業大國擁有各種行業 — 以擺脫石油。 我們來看看農業，看下林業。那里發生了什麽？上周在坦桑尼亞，我們發佈了東非有機作物生產標準。集合了東非的農民和股東一起為有機作物生產制定標準。更好的價格。這個標準和小規模生產的農民沒有殺蟲劑，沒有化肥。同樣也是調整市場以期獲得更高價格的機會。烏干達：新森林公司，重新種植和開拓了他們的森林。爲什麽要這麼做呢？因為能源需求和電力需求【未來的需求】需要電網拓展的電杆。但這只是整個生意裏面的一丁點。他們開始挖掘碳排放信用額。回到尼日利亞。銀行業正經歷巨大的變革，從80家銀行到25家。雖然鞏固了整個系統。但實際發生了什麽？全國只有10%的地區有銀行。尼日利亞的人口是非洲最多的。1億萬3千五百萬的人口。想像下。整個國家只有700個ATM取款機。機會！ 整個國家的通訊也是如此。我們來整體看看整個非洲大陸。人們一看到公路，比如，就會說，『安哥拉：90%的公路沒有瀝青。哦，真糟！』運輸貨物變的昂貴。商品的價格也會上升，然後導致通脹。尼日利亞：70%的公路沒有瀝青。贊比亞：80%。總體來說，超過50%的公路沒有瀝青。這是個機會啊！能源需求 — 這是一個機會。那麼正在根本性改變中的訊號是什麽呢？看看非洲的股票市場。如果我問你：『2005年，全球表現最優的股票交易市場或者期貨市場在哪裡？』誰會想到埃及？在2005年，埃及股市 — 股票交易所 — 回報率超過145%。其他國家的表現如何呢？2006年的數據顯示，肯尼亞：超過60%的回報，尼日利亞：超過40%。南非：20%。都是比較高的數字。這些是正在發生的趨勢。不過對於任何投資決策，有一個關鍵的問題是，『備選的投資機會還有什麽？』 現今在非洲，我們和全球的資本市場競爭。同時全球的資本是不可知的 — 因為它沒有特許費。美國資本過剩，問題出在收益率上。非洲能提供的是多元化的組合，給投資者提高收益率投資者意識到他或者他正在做什麽。現在，我們拿非洲和其他地方比較，也拿非洲國家與其他國對比，對比是很重要的。10年前，只有少數國家能夠獲得標準普爾、穆迪還有惠譽的獨立評級。今天，已有16個非洲國家獲得國家評級，這又意味著什麽？再以尼日利亞為例：它和烏克蘭和土耳其聯盟得到兩個 B- 很快我們就有個對比。為全球主流金融資本持有者提供投資決策參考。也有人指出，南非：3個B+，波扎那: A+佈基納法索：B-，等等。 實際上，全球最大的一個經紀公司正在非洲設立辦事處。他們爲什麽要這麼做？因為他們想跟進投資。其中一個帶頭大哥，也是我最後一個想提及的，是我讀到認為最有意思的：CNBC（美國全國廣播公司財經頻道）已經啟動第一個非洲頻道。CNBC爲什麽要這麼做？他是一個24小時滾動播放非洲新聞的頻道。之所以這麼做他們期待大事件發生。我還有你，我們這些做投資的人，還有全世界在做投資的人 —從那裡可以得到24小時的非洲新聞。這就是變化，從頭到尾的變化。 最後，我想簡單回顧下這些年來對我影響深遠的事情。這一次我給你們看我在2002年所看到的完整圖片，問到當你思考自己在非洲的角色時，思考你的旅途能否給這片大陸帶來光明。因為這裡有太多驚人的機會。也思考變革的概念印在你的腦海裡，因為有些事情很難一下轉變過來。 1989年，約瑟夫 康拉德發行了《黑暗之心》一書，一個冷酷的英雄在剛果河的故事。假如有人注意到的話，剛果河也是帶來光亮的。這是真正的剛果河帶來光明 —那古老的黑暗之心—正在利用水力發電帶來光明。這也是一個轉換電力的看法。到下一階段，接下來的四天裡，我們會探討更多這樣的想法。或許，如果你能保存這張圖片在大腦中。不久的將來，到2020年，我們再次相聚，這個圖片將會看起來非常不同。謝謝。 （掌聲）
