Talk	en	zh-tw
evan_williams_on_listening_to_twitter_users	"Four years ago, on the TED stage, I announced a company I was working with at the time called Odeo. And because of that announcement, we got a big article in The New York Times, which led to more press, which led to more attention, and me deciding to become CEO of that company — whereas I was just an adviser — and raising a round of venture capital and ramping up hiring. One of the guys I hired was an engineer named Jack Dorsey, and a year later, when we were trying to decide which way to go with Odeo, Jack presented an idea he'd been tinkering around with for a number of years that was based around sending simple status updates to friends. We were also playing with SMS at the time at Odeo, so we kind of put two and two together, and in early 2006 we launched Twitter as a side project at Odeo. Now, it's hard to justify doing a side project at a startup, where focus is so critical, but I had actually launched Blogger as a side project to my previous company, thinking it was just a little thing we'd do on the side, and it ended up taking over not only the company, but my life for the next five or six years. So I learned to follow hunches even though you can't necessarily justify them or know where they're going to go. And that's kind of what's happened with Twitter, time after time. So, for those of you unfamiliar, Twitter is based around a very simple, seemingly trivial concept. You say what you're doing in 140 characters or less, and people who are interested in you get those updates. If they're really interested, they get the update as a text message on their cell phone. So, for instance, I may Twitter right now that I'm giving a talk at TED. And in my case, when I hit send, up to 60,000 people will receive that message in a matter of seconds. Now, the fundamental idea is that Twitter lets people share moments of their lives whenever they want, be they momentous occasions or mundane ones. It is by sharing these moments as they're happening that lets people feel more connected and in touch, despite distance, and in real time. This is the primary use we saw of Twitter from the beginning, and what got us excited. What we didn't anticipate was the many, many other uses that would evolve from this very simple system. One of the things we realized was how important Twitter could be during real-time events. When the wildfires broke out in San Diego, in October of 2007, people turned to Twitter to report what was happening and to find information from neighbors about what was happening around them. But it wasn't just individuals. The L.A. Times actually turned to Twitter to dispense information as well, and put a Twitter feed on the front page, and the L.A. Fire Department and Red Cross used it to dispense news and updates as well. At this event, dozens of people here are Twittering and thousands of people around the world are following along because they want to know what it feels like to be here and what's happening. Among the other interesting things that have cropped up are many things from businesses, from marketing and communications and predictable things, to an insanely popular Korean-barbecue taco truck that drives around L.A. and Twitters where it stops, causing a line to form around the block. Politicians have recently begun Twittering. In fact, there are 47 members of Congress who currently have Twitter accounts. And they're tweeting, in some cases, from behind closed-door sessions with the President. In this case, this guy's not liking what he's hearing. The President himself is our most popular Twitter user, although his tweets have dropped off as of late, while Senator McCain's have picked up. As have this guy's. Twitter was originally designed as a broadcast medium: you send one message and it goes out to everybody, and you receive the messages you're interested in. One of the many ways that users shaped the evolution of Twitter was by inventing a way to reply to a specific person or a specific message. So, this syntax, the ""@username"" that Shaquille O'Neal's using here to reply to one of his fans, was completely invented by users, and we didn't build it into the system until it already became popular and then we made it easier. This is one of the many ways that users have shaped the system. Another is via the API. We built an application-programming interface, which basically means that programmers can write software that interacts with Twitter. We currently know about over 2,000 pieces of software that can send Twitter updates — interfaces for Mac, Windows, your iPhone, your BlackBerry — as well as things like a device that lets an unborn baby Twitter when it kicks or a plant Twitter when it needs water. Probably the most important third-party development came from a little company in Virginia called Summize. Summize built a Twitter search engine. And they tapped into the fact that, if you have millions of people around the world talking about what they're doing and what's around them, you have an incredible resource to find out about any topic or event while it's going on. This really changed how we perceived Twitter. For instance, here's what people are saying about TED. This is another way that our mind was shifted, and Twitter wasn't what we thought it was. We liked this so much we actually bought the company and are folding it into the main product. This not only lets you view Twitters in different ways, but it introduces new use cases as well. One of my favorites is what happened a few months ago when there was a gas shortage in Atlanta. Some users figured out that they would Twitter when they found gas — where it was, and how much it cost — and then appended the keyword ""#atlgas"" which let other people search for that and find gas themselves. And this trend of people using this communication network to help each other out goes far beyond the original idea of just keeping up with family and friends. It's happened more and more lately, whether it's raising money for homeless people or to dig wells in Africa or for a family in crisis. People have raised tens of thousands of dollars over Twitter in a matter of days on several occasions. It seems like when you give people easier ways to share information, more good things happen. I have no idea what will happen next with Twitter. I've learned to follow the hunch, but never assume where it will go. Thanks. (Applause) Chris Anderson: We're not quite done yet. So, look, if we could have this screen live. This is actually the most terrifying thing that any speaker can do after they've been to an event. It's totally intimidating. So, this would be the Twitter search screen. So we're going to just type a couple of random words into Twitter. For example: ""Evan Williams."" ""Evan Williams, give people more good ways to share information and follow your hunch at TED."" ""Currently listening to Evan Williams."" ""Currently listening to Evan Williams."" ""Evan Williams —"" Oh. ""Evan Williams is just dying on stage here at TED. Worst talk ever!"" (Laughter) Evan Williams: Nice. Thanks. CA: Just kidding. But, literally in the eight minutes he was talking, there are about fifty tweets that already came on the talk. So he'll see every aspect of the reaction: the fact that Barack Obama is the biggest Twitterer, the fact that it came out of TED. I don't think there's any other way of getting instant feedback that way. You have build something very fascinating, and it looks like its best times are still ahead of it. So, thank you very much, Evan. EW: Thank you. CA: That was very interesting."	四年前，同樣在TED的講台上我說我跟人合創了一間公司那間公司叫Odeo那次的演講經《紐約時報》大幅報導後又吸引更多媒體，招來更多矚目然後我決定出任Odeo的執行長其實我只是顧問然後我開始募集資金四處招募人才 工程師傑克．杜西就是那時雇用的員工一年後，我們開始思考Odeo未來發展傑克提出他長年一直想實現的構想基本上，就是即時更新現況給朋友們看當時在Odeo我們也有做SMS簡訊服務所以我們把兩者稍作整合2006年初在Odeo推出推特當副產品 我們很難說當初的決定是否明智新創公司推出多項產品是有點冒險但我也曾推出Blogger軟體當副產品在我之前創立的另家公司所以我原本把推特當成小型副產品結果，推特不僅成為Odeo的事業重心也成為我接下來五六年的生活重心我從這當中學會相信直覺雖然我們往往無法判定直覺是否正確也無法預測將來發展不過就像推特，時間會解答一切 如果你不太清楚推特是什麼推特的概念非常簡單，毫不足奇140個字元內說你想說的話對你有興趣的人就會收到新訊息如果他們非常感興趣他們可以在手機上用簡訊接收新訊比如說，我現在「推」一下說我正在TED演講當我按下送出幾秒內有近6萬人會收到這則訊息推特的核心概念就是讓大家分享生活點滴無論何時（生了！4500克，是男孩）無論是意義非凡的事還是平凡瑣事（可惡手機掉馬桶裡了）透過立即分享讓大家有彼此關連和保持聯繫的感覺這種沒有距離的實況速報就是我們一開始對推特的設定也讓我們相當興奮 出乎我們意料，這個簡單的系統居然發展出這麼多的用途我們領悟的一件事是發生緊急事件時，推特非常重要2007年10月聖地牙哥大火災情爆發時民眾湧入推特報導現場災情同時探尋鄰居們的狀況試圖了解自己周遭發生的事 不單只是個人而已當時洛杉磯時報也靠推特散佈消息把推特網址放在首頁（大火波及克利夫蘭國家公園）洛杉磯消防局和紅十字會也是靠推特散播消息這起事件中，許多人在推特發表訊息而成千上萬的人跟進報導回應因為他們想知道在現場的人有何感受以及了解災情最新狀況 推特也有一些有趣的現象 例如公司行號開始利用推特 從行銷到大眾傳播事業等可想見的一家韓式煎餅餐車就靠推特莫名爆紅餐車繞經全洛杉磯並在推特上宣傳停靠點購買者大排長龍（我們在明尼蘇達大學主場） 政治人物最近也開始用推特事實上，已有47名國會議員最近有了推特帳號有時候他們在網路上「推」了個訊息其實人正和歐巴馬總統閉門開會通常這時他們對議題不感興趣總統自己就是最受歡迎的推特客雖然他最近推特的次數有點下滑馬侃議員的倒是增加了也包括這個人（TED現任主席） 原本推特的設定是廣播訊息平台你上傳一則訊息後大家都會收到你也會收到你感興趣的人寫的用戶們推動推特演變的其中一種方式就是發明出特定方式回覆某個人或回應某個訊息所以像「俠客」．歐尼爾就用「＠帳號」回覆某位球迷這全是用戶們自己想出來的這個功能本來沒有內建，受到歡迎後我們才加上並讓它更容易使用這是客戶引導系統成形的一例 還有一例是透過API應用程式介面我們建置了一個API讓軟體工程師能寫出推特相容程式目前我們知道超過2千種軟體程式可以傳送推特訊息更新像是Mac電腦、Windows、iPone和黑莓機…也包括了讓腹中寶寶踢腿時就「推」個訊息或是植物該澆水時也來推一下 最重要的第三方發展成果來自維吉尼亞州一間小公司SummizeSummize建構一個推特搜尋引擎他們善加利用了一項真理就是當全世界有數百萬人談論他們做的事和面臨的事就大有機會從話題或事件裡即時找到想找的東西這也讓我們重新看待推特例如這是推特上大家對TED的討論以上是我們思考模式的一項轉變推特並非僅是當初設定的樣子我們很喜歡那個搜尋引擎乾脆把公司買下來然後把搜尋引擎併到推特裡搜尋引擎讓人對推特有了不同看法也衍生許多新的使用方式其中一種是在幾個月前發生的，我很欣賞那時亞特蘭大汽油短缺一些推特客想出法子一旦他們發現汽油就推一下告知地點價錢（每公升18元，洛根威爾市）然後還貼上「#atlgas」當關鍵字這樣其他人搜尋時就可找到訊息 這種利用社交聯絡網路互助助人的趨勢遠超越原先僅連繫親友的設定最近這種情況愈趨頻繁不論是為遊民募款或是為了在非洲鑿井或只是某個家庭有困難大家在幾天內就募集數萬資金名目各有不同似乎提供輕鬆容易的分享方式就能有更多善事 我不知道推特接下來會走向何種發展但我學會相信直覺而且不要預設未來發展的走向謝謝 （掌聲） 主持人：還沒結束（訂閱我的推特：請輸入FOLLOW EV）讓我們看看螢幕同步顯示這是所有講者最怕遇到的演講完還得面對這些真的非常可怕 現在這是推特的搜尋頁面我們隨便打幾個字比如說伊凡．威廉斯「給大家更多資訊並相信你的直覺@ #TED」「…正在聽伊凡．威廉斯演講」噢「伊凡．威廉斯在台上撐不下去了…」「史上最爛演講」 哈那還真謝了 開個玩笑別在意 就在伊凡演講的八分鐘內就有大概五十則推特訊息速報所以他能看到各方不同迴響包括歐巴馬總統是最有名的推特客以及推特從TED開始發跡…我想沒有其他方式能這麼快收到回應 你做了一件非常了不起的事看來推特未來會更讓人驚艷非常謝謝你，伊凡真是場有趣的演講
