Talk	en	zh-tw
eve_ensler	"For a long time, there was me, and my body. Me was composed of stories, of cravings, of strivings, of desires of the future. Me was trying not to be an outcome of my violent past, but the separation that had already occurred between me and my body was a pretty significant outcome. Me was always trying to become something, somebody. Me only existed in the trying. My body was often in the way. Me was a floating head. For years, I actually only wore hats. It was a way of keeping my head attached. It was a way of locating myself. I worried that [if] I took my hat off I wouldn't be here anymore. I actually had a therapist who once said to me, ""Eve, you've been coming here for two years, and, to be honest, it never occurred to me that you had a body."" All this time I lived in the city because, to be honest, I was afraid of trees. I never had babies because heads cannot give birth. Babies actually don't come out of your mouth. As I had no reference point for my body, I began to ask other women about their bodies — in particular, their vaginas, because I thought vaginas were kind of important. This led to me writing ""The Vagina Monologues,"" which led to me obsessively and incessantly talking about vaginas everywhere I could. I did this in front of many strangers. One night on stage, I actually entered my vagina. It was an ecstatic experience. It scared me, it energized me, and then I became a driven person, a driven vagina. I began to see my body like a thing, a thing that could move fast, like a thing that could accomplish other things, many things, all at once. I began to see my body like an iPad or a car. I would drive it and demand things from it. It had no limits. It was invincible. It was to be conquered and mastered like the Earth herself. I didn't heed it; no, I organized it and I directed it. I didn't have patience for my body; I snapped it into shape. I was greedy. I took more than my body had to offer. If I was tired, I drank more espressos. If I was afraid, I went to more dangerous places. Oh sure, sure, I had moments of appreciation of my body, the way an abusive parent can sometimes have a moment of kindness. My father was really kind to me on my 16th birthday, for example. I heard people murmur from time to time that I should love my body, so I learned how to do this. I was a vegetarian, I was sober, I didn't smoke. But all that was just a more sophisticated way to manipulate my body — a further disassociation, like planting a vegetable field on a freeway. As a result of me talking so much about my vagina, many women started to tell me about theirs — their stories about their bodies. Actually, these stories compelled me around the world, and I've been to over 60 countries. I heard thousands of stories, and I have to tell you, there was always this moment where the women shared with me that particular moment when she separated from her body — when she left home. I heard about women being molested in their beds, flogged in their burqas, left for dead in parking lots, acid burned in their kitchens. Some women became quiet and disappeared. Other women became mad, driven machines like me. In the middle of my traveling, I turned 40 and I began to hate my body, which was actually progress, because at least my body existed enough to hate it. Well my stomach — it was my stomach I hated. It was proof that I had not measured up, that I was old and not fabulous and not perfect or able to fit into the predetermined corporate image in shape. My stomach was proof that I had failed, that it had failed me, that it was broken. My life became about getting rid of it and obsessing about getting rid of it. In fact, it became so extreme I wrote a play about it. But the more I talked about it, the more objectified and fragmented my body became. It became entertainment; it became a new kind of commodity, something I was selling. Then I went somewhere else. I went outside what I thought I knew. I went to the Democratic Republic of Congo. And I heard stories that shattered all the other stories. I heard stories that got inside my body. I heard about a little girl who couldn't stop peeing on herself because so many grown soldiers had shoved themselves inside her. I heard an 80-year-old woman whose legs were broken and pulled out of her sockets and twisted up on her head as the soldiers raped her like that. There are thousands of these stories, and many of the women had holes in their bodies — holes, fistula — that were the violation of war — holes in the fabric of their souls. These stories saturated my cells and nerves, and to be honest, I stopped sleeping for three years. All the stories began to bleed together. The raping of the Earth, the pillaging of minerals, the destruction of vaginas — none of these were separate anymore from each other or me. Militias were raping six-month-old babies so that countries far away could get access to gold and coltan for their iPhones and computers. My body had not only become a driven machine, but it was responsible now for destroying other women's bodies in its mad quest to make more machines to support the speed and efficiency of my machine. Then I got cancer — or I found out I had cancer. It arrived like a speeding bird smashing into a windowpane. Suddenly, I had a body, a body that was pricked and poked and punctured, a body that was cut wide open, a body that had organs removed and transported and rearranged and reconstructed, a body that was scanned and had tubes shoved down it, a body that was burning from chemicals. Cancer exploded the wall of my disconnection. I suddenly understood that the crisis in my body was the crisis in the world, and it wasn't happening later, it was happening now. Suddenly, my cancer was a cancer that was everywhere, the cancer of cruelty, the cancer of greed, the cancer that gets inside people who live down the streets from chemical plants — and they're usually poor — the cancer inside the coal miner's lungs, the cancer of stress for not achieving enough, the cancer of buried trauma, the cancer in caged chickens and polluted fish, the cancer in women's uteruses from being raped, the cancer that is everywhere from our carelessness. In his new and visionary book, ""New Self, New World,"" the writer Philip Shepherd says, ""If you are divided from your body, you are also divided from the body of the world, which then appears to be other than you or separate from you, rather than the living continuum to which you belong."" Before cancer, the world was something other. It was as if I was living in a stagnant pool and cancer dynamited the boulder that was separating me from the larger sea. Now I am swimming in it. Now I lay down in the grass and I rub my body in it, and I love the mud on my legs and feet. Now I make a daily pilgrimage to visit a particular weeping willow by the Seine, and I hunger for the green fields in the bush outside Bukavu. And when it rains hard rain, I scream and I run in circles. I know that everything is connected, and the scar that runs the length of my torso is the markings of the earthquake. And I am there with the three million in the streets of Port-au-Prince. And the fire that burned in me on day three through six of chemo is the fire that is burning in the forests of the world. I know that the abscess that grew around my wound after the operation, the 16 ounces of puss, is the contaminated Gulf of Mexico, and there were oil-drenched pelicans inside me and dead floating fish. And the catheters they shoved into me without proper medication made me scream out the way the Earth cries out from the drilling. In my second chemo, my mother got very sick and I went to see her. And in the name of connectedness, the only thing she wanted before she died was to be brought home by her beloved Gulf of Mexico. So we brought her home, and I prayed that the oil wouldn't wash up on her beach before she died. And gratefully, it didn't. And she died quietly in her favorite place. And a few weeks later, I was in New Orleans, and this beautiful, spiritual friend told me she wanted to do a healing for me. And I was honored. And I went to her house, and it was morning, and the morning New Orleans sun was filtering through the curtains. And my friend was preparing this big bowl, and I said, ""What is it?"" And she said, ""It's for you. The flowers make it beautiful, and the honey makes it sweet."" And I said, ""But what's the water part?"" And in the name of connectedness, she said, ""Oh, it's the Gulf of Mexico."" And I said, ""Of course it is."" And the other women arrived and they sat in a circle, and Michaela bathed my head with the sacred water. And she sang — I mean her whole body sang. And the other women sang and they prayed for me and my mother. And as the warm Gulf washed over my naked head, I realized that it held the best and the worst of us. It was the greed and recklessness that led to the drilling explosion. It was all the lies that got told before and after. It was the honey in the water that made it sweet, it was the oil that made it sick. It was my head that was bald — and comfortable now without a hat. It was my whole self melting into Michaela's lap. It was the tears that were indistinguishable from the Gulf that were falling down my cheek. It was finally being in my body. It was the sorrow that's taken so long. It was finding my place and the huge responsibility that comes with connection. It was the continuing devastating war in the Congo and the indifference of the world. It was the Congolese women who are now rising up. It was my mother leaving, just at the moment that I was being born. It was the realization that I had come very close to dying — in the same way that the Earth, our mother, is barely holding on, in the same way that 75 percent of the planet are hardly scraping by, in the same way that there is a recipe for survival. What I learned is it has to do with attention and resources that everybody deserves. It was advocating friends and a doting sister. It was wise doctors and advanced medicine and surgeons who knew what to do with their hands. It was underpaid and really loving nurses. It was magic healers and aromatic oils. It was people who came with spells and rituals. It was having a vision of the future and something to fight for, because I know this struggle isn't my own. It was a million prayers. It was a thousand hallelujahs and a million oms. It was a lot of anger, insane humor, a lot of attention, outrage. It was energy, love and joy. It was all these things. It was all these things. It was all these things in the water, in the world, in my body. (Applause)"	有一段很長的時間這是我和我的身體。我是由渴望, 奮鬥,　以及對未來理想的故事所組成的,我是由渴望, 奮鬥,　以及對未來理想的故事所組成的,我是由渴望, 奮鬥,　以及對未來理想的故事所組成的,我嘗試不要變成我那暴力的過去的結果,但那樣的分裂已經存在了在我和我的身體之間這是一個很明顯的結果。我常常努力去變成一些事, 一些人。我只存在於在嘗試。我的身體總障礙著我。 我只是一個飄浮著的頭。許多年來, 我著實的只戴帽子。因為這樣才可以讓我的頭黏著我的身體。讓我知道我身在何處。我擔心要是我把帽子除下來我便不再在這裡了。曾經有一個治療師告訴我,「Eve, 你已經來這裡兩年了,老實說, 你對我來說, 好像從來不曾有一個身體。」許多時候我住在城市,因為, 坦白的,我很害怕樹,我從沒有孩子因為頭腦不能生產孩子。嬰兒不會從我的口中走出來。 因為我對自己的身體全沒有任何的參考點,我便開始去問別的女人關於她們的身體—-尤其是, 她們的陰道,因為我想陰道應該是很重要的。這讓我寫成了『陰道獨白』這也讓我不能自控的不懈地到處去講關於陰道的故事。我在許多陌生人面前講。有一個晚在台上，我真的, 進入了自己的陰道。這是一個十分狂喜的經驗。這嚇壞了我, 也激勵了我，接著, 我變成了一個被驅使的人，一個被驅使的陰道。 我開始看見我的身體, 是一件東西,是一件可以走得很快,是一件可以完成其他事情的東西,可以做很多事, 同一時候之內。我開始看到我的身體好像是ipad 或是一輛汽車。我會駕駛它, 會要求它。它是沒有限制的, 它是不會被打敗的。它就好像是大地一樣, 可以被征服和操控的。我沒有關心它；不, 我組織了它, 我指揮它。我對我的身體沒有多少忍耐；我把它塑成我理想的模樣。我很貪心。我想從我身體取得的, 多於它可以付出的。如果我累了, 我喝更多的濃烈咖啡。如果我害怕, 我去更多危險的地方。 噢, 對了, 我也有一些欣賞自己身體的時刻，就好像那個虐兒的父母也有一點點仁慈的時刻。我的爸爸曾經對我很好好像在我十六歲的生日那天,我聽過身邊很多人嚕囌過我要好好愛惜自己的身體，所以我學習到怎樣做。我是一個素食者, 我不酗酒, 我不吸煙。但這都只是更成熟的方法來操控我的身體–––一種更大的抽離狀態，就好像在高速公路上種菜田。 最後, 由於我說得太多關於陰道，很多女人開始告訴我關於她們的 ––身體的故事。事實上, 這些故事驅使我走到全世界，我去過超過六十個國家。我聽過上千的故事。但我要說, 那些女士通常是在這樣的環境開始跟我分享她們的故事這個她跟身體分離的特別時刻 ––當她離開家庭。我聽到女人在床上被侵犯，身穿著罩袍被鞭打，在停車場被棄置死亡，在廚房中給腐蝕性液體燒傷。有些女人失踪了, 或是變得沉默了。其他的女人變得精神失常, 或是我像一樣變成一台被駕駛的機器。 在我的旅途中間，我到了四十歲, 我開始會討厭自己的身體，這也是一種進步，因為最少我確認了身體的存在, 我才懂得去討厭它。對, 是我的肚子, 我討厭我的肚子。這證明我，已經老了, 不够好, 不够完美或是不能够迎合目前那些既定的社會標準形態。我的肚子証明我的失敗，是它讓我失敗, 形同它是一件爛貨。我的人生變得我只想著怎樣可以弄走我的肚子，事實上, 它變得太過了我只寫過一齣關於它的劇本。但當我愈是談論它愈多，我的身體便會變得更加分割和被物化。它變成了一個玩賞產物, 一種新出品的貨物，一些我用來賣出去的東西。 跟著, 我走到其他地方。我走出去一些我以為我知道地方。我走到剛果民主共和國。我聽到許多比其他更令人震驚的故事。我聽到那些走進我身體裡的故事。我聽到一個小女孩她不停的對著自己撒尿因為有許多成年的士兵硬把自己塞進她體內。我聽到一個八十歲的婦人她被脫掉襪子, 雙腿被弄斷並且扭曲到她的頭上來這就是士兵強姦她的情況了。這裡有數以千計的故事。有許多女人身體內有洞 ––有洞, 有瘺管這是戰爭的侵害 —她們靈魂裡的傷痕。這些故事都充塞了我的細胞和神經。以及, 坦白說我沒有睡去三年了。 所以這些故事連成一起。對地球的強暴，掠奪礦產，對陰道的摧殘所有這些事情都變得跟我無分彼此了。軍隊強暴六個月的嬰兒於是遙遠的國家便可以得到黃金和礦物去做他們的iphone 和電腦。我的身體不只變成了一具被操縱的機器，但它現在也需要為摧毀其他女性身體而負責任我會用更多的機器去讓我身體的機器運作得更快更有效, 這真是一個瘋狂的要求。 於是, 我得了癌症了或是, 我發現了我患癌了我好像一只飛行著的小鳥盲目的在撞到窗口上變得粉碎了。突然之間, 我有一個身體了，一個可以刺開，戳和刺破的身體，一個可以切開，可以把器官拿走然後移殖, 重新調配, 重新再做的身體，一個可以被掃描的身體被一條導管插進去，一個被化學品燃燒的身體。這是, 癌症炸開了我那被隔絕的牆。我突然之間明白我身體裡的危機也是這個世界的危機,它並不是稍後才發生,它是現在正在發生的。 突然間, 我的癌症也是到處的癌症，殘忌的癌症, 貪婪的癌症,那是在人心中的癌症那些住在街邊的人由化學植物而來的癌症—-他們通常都很貧窮 —那些在媒礦工人的肺部中的癌症，那些因為永遠得不足够的癌症，那些因埋葬了 的創傷而來的癌症，那些關在籠子裡的小雞和受汚染的魚的癌症，那些在女性子宮因被強姦而來的癌症，癌症就是存在在每一個我們不小心的地方裡。 在這本有遠景, 新出版的書中，『新的我, 新的世界』作者 Philip Shepherd 說，「假如你跟你的身體分離，那你也同時跟世界分離，這個變成了另一個你或是由你而分出來，多過是一個屬於你的整體有生命的人。」在生癌之前，世界像一些別的。就好像我生存在一個靜止的湖塘而癌症就炸開了那個分隔和我大海的巨石。現在, 我在當中游泳。™我躺在草地上讓小草擦著身體，我也喜歡那些泥土沾滿了我的大腿和腳。我現在每天都做靈修去看 看那些塞納河邊的垂柳，我為在布卡武樹林的的綠色草地而興奮。當下著大雨的時候，我來回奔跑著呼叫。 我知道萬事萬物都是相連的,那個留在我身上疤痕就是地震的印記。以及, 我跟三百萬人在太子港的街上。那燃燒著我的烈火在第三至第六天的化療就是那在世界的森林燃燒著我的烈火。我知道那膿腫手術後我在的傷口上生長著,那十六安士的重物,就是那個汚染了的墨西哥港灣那裡有被石油汚染的塘鵝在我裡面以及浮著的死魚。那些插進我體內的導管, 卻沒有合適的藥物令我痛得大叫就像地球被鑽時的呼喊聲一樣。 在 我第二次的化療之中我的母親病了我走去看她在連繫的名義之中她在死前唯一希望的事情就是把她帶回家在她至愛的墨西哥海灣。所以, 我帶她回家,以及祈禱在她死前, 那些油汚沒有汚染她的海灘那些油汚沒有汚染她的海灘很感恩的, 它沒有。而她, 在她喜歡的地方裡平靜地死去。 數星期之後, 我在新奧良爾,那裡有個很有漂亮的, 很有靈性的朋友告訴我, 她想給我治療。我感到十分榮幸。我去了她的家裡, 這是一個早晨,那個早上, 新奧良爾的太陽穿透了那些窗簾。我的朋友準備了一個大碗,我問: 「這是什麼？」她說, 「這是給你的，那些花很漂亮，那些蜜糖很甜。」我問: 那些水代表什麼在這連繫的名字之中她說, 「這是墨西哥港灣」我說: 「當然它是的。」其他的女性走進來, 她們圍坐成一個圓,Michaela 用那些聖水用洗我的頭。她唱—-我是說, 她用整個身體來唱歌。其他婦女也一起和唱他們都為我和媽媽祈禱。 並用那個温暖的港灣清洗我那秃頭我才發現, 它有著我們最好和最壞的東西。它是貪婪和輕妄這可能帶來爆炸的災難。它會說出所有的謊言在這之前和之後。它也是因為蜜糖而變得甜美這是因為油而變成令人嘔心。它是我的秃頭現在即使沒有帽子, 也感到舒適。它是我的整個自我在Michaela 的大腿之中融化了。眼淚已經跟港灣分不開了同樣的流落在我的頰上。它最後也成為了我的身體。它是愁苦已經存在了很久了。最後它找到了我還有那巨大的責任都是由這樣的連繫而來。剛果仍有著持續的破壞性戰爭以及世界的冷漠。它是己站起來的剛果的婦女。它是我媽媽的離去,就在我出生的那個瞬間。它是在實現著我慢慢的接近了死亡 —-就好像地球, 我們的母親,快要撐不住了,就好像宇宙被刮掉了百分之七十五,同樣的我也學到 這是生存的竅門生存是需要關注和資源的每個人都值得擁有這些它是倡導的朋友們它是被溺愛的妹妹。它是聰明的醫生和先進的藥物也是那些知道怎樣做的外科醫生。它是真正可愛和被剝削的護士，它是神奇的醫治者及香薰油。它是那個帶著法術和儀式的人。它有著對未來的視野以及一些為要爭取的東西，因為我知道那些爭鬥不單只在我。它是百萬的祈禱者。它是千個hallelujahs以及百萬個oms。它有許多的憤怒瘋狂的幽默許多的關注, 憤慨。它是能量, 愛和喜悅。它是所有的事。它是所有的事它是所有的東西在水裡, 在世上, 在我的身體 掌聲
