Talk	en	zh-tw
ex_moonie_diane_benscoter_how_cults_think	"My journey to coming here today started in 1974. That's me with the funny gloves. I was 17 and going on a peace walk. What I didn't know though, was most of those people, standing there with me, were Moonies. (Laughter) And within a week I had come to believe that the second coming of Christ had occurred, that it was Sun Myung Moon, and that I had been specially chosen and prepared by God to be his disciple. Now as cool as that sounds, my family was not that thrilled with this. (Laughter) And they tried everything they could to get me out of there. There was an underground railroad of sorts that was going on during those years. Maybe some of you remember it. They were called deprogrammers. And after about five long years my family had me deprogrammed. And I then became a deprogrammer. I started going out on cases. And after about five years of doing this, I was arrested for kidnapping. Most of the cases I went out on were called involuntary. What happened was that the family had to get their loved ones some safe place somehow. And so they took them to some safe place. And we would come in and talk to them, usually for about a week. And so after this happened, I decided it was a good time to turn my back on this work. And about 20 years went by. There was a burning question though that would not leave me. And that was, ""How did this happen to me?"" And in fact, what did happen to my brain? Because something did. And so I decided to write a book, a memoir, about this decade of my life. And toward the end of writing that book there was a documentary that came out. It was on Jonestown. And it had a chilling effect on me. These are the dead in Jonestown. About 900 people died that day, most of them taking their own lives. Women gave poison to their babies, and watched foam come from their mouths as they died. The top picture is a group of Moonies that have been blessed by their messiah. Their mates were chosen for them. The bottom picture is Hitler youth. This is the leg of a suicide bomber. The thing I had to admit to myself, with great repulsion, was that I get it. I understand how this could happen. I understand how someone's brain, how someone's mind can come to the place where it makes sense — in fact it would be wrong, when your brain is working like that — not to try to save the world through genocide. And so what is this? How does this work? And how I've come to view what happened to me is a viral, memetic infection. For those of you who aren't familiar with memetics, a meme has been defined as an idea that replicates in the human brain and moves from brain to brain like a virus, much like a virus. The way a virus works is — it can infect and do the most damage to someone who has a compromised immune system. In 1974, I was young, I was naive, and I was pretty lost in my world. I was really idealistic. These easy ideas to complex questions are very appealing when you are emotionally vulnerable. What happens is that circular logic takes over. ""Moon is one with God. God is going to fix all the problems in the world. All I have to do is humbly follow. Because God is going to stop war and hunger — all these things I wanted to do — all I have to do is humbly follow. Because after all, God is [working through] the messiah. He's going to fix all this."" It becomes impenetrable. And the most dangerous part of this is that is creates ""us"" and ""them,"" ""right"" and ""wrong,"" ""good"" and ""evil."" And it makes anything possible, makes anything rationalizable. And the thing is, though, if you looked at my brain during those years in the Moonies — neuroscience is expanding exponentially, as Ray Kurzweil said yesterday. Science is expanding. We're beginning to look inside the brain. And so if you looked at my brain, or any brain that's infected with a viral memetic infection like this, and compared it to anyone in this room, or anyone who uses critical thinking on a regular basis, I am convinced it would look very, very different. And that, strange as it may sound, gives me hope. And the reason that gives me hope is that the first thing is to admit that we have a problem. But it's a human problem. It's a scientific problem, if you will. It happens in the human brain. There is no evil force out there to get us. And so this is something that, through research and education, I believe that we can solve. And so the first step is to realize that we can do this together, and that there is no ""us"" and ""them."" Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我今天所要談的經驗是從1974年開始的那個戴著奇怪手套的人就是我我那時才17歲,便參加和平示威遊行當時我並不知道,我身旁的這些人大部份都是統一教狂熱信徒(觀眾笑聲)[請注意：本影片有血腥畫面]不到一個禮拜他們就說服我耶穌已經重返人世而文鮮明就是祂的化身我是上帝的選民註定要追隨文鮮明 雖然聽起來很酷我的家人知道後卻不太爽(觀眾笑聲)他們想盡辦法要我脫離那個教派在那個年代有一個秘密組織也許你們有些人還記得那個組織裡的人被稱為""反洗腦者""過了漫長的五年我的家人終於把我""反洗腦""了而我自己也成為""反洗腦者""我開始幫助被洗腦的受害人在做了將近五年的反洗腦工作後我因綁架罪名被逮捕我輔導的大部份當事人並非自願接受反洗腦的這些當事人的家人得先為當事人找到安全的藏身地把他們安置在那裡然後我們再去輔導,通常持續一個禮拜左右經過被警方逮捕的事件後我決定不再從事這種工作 又過了大約20年我腦中有個問題始終揮之不去那就是:我到底怎麼了?或是說:我的腦袋到底怎麼了?因為我的腦中的確產生了變化於是我決定要寫一本回憶錄記錄我人生中被洗腦和反洗腦的那十年 就在我快把書寫完的時候有一部紀錄片上映了是關於集體自殺的瓊斯鎮我看了以後不禁毛骨悚然這些就是死於那次事件的人當天大約有900個人喪生其中大部份都是自殺婦女餵自己的小孩吃毒藥眼睜睜看著他們口吐白沫而死 上面的照片是文鮮明(統一教)的信徒他們受到了救世主文鮮明的祝福配偶也都由文鮮明挑選好了下面的照片是信奉希特勒的青年軍這是一個自殺炸彈客的斷腿我很不願意承認但又不得不承認的是我了解這些人我了解他們為什麼會這樣我懂一個人的腦子為什麼會有那些想法而且竟然認為那些想法是對的事實上,當你陷入那種思考模式以後你會認為大屠殺是為了拯救世人 這到底是什麼樣的心態?它是如何形成的?我又是如何看清一切明白那其實是一種腦部中毒的現象在座有些人可能不太清楚這概念腦部中毒指的就是一個想法在人腦中不斷分裂複製像病毒一樣散播到別人的腦中而就像病毒的運作方式一樣會傳染給他人並造成莫大傷害抵抗力差的人更深受其害 1974年的我年輕又天真迷失在自己的世界裡抱著過於理想主義的態度統一教的思想直觀，好似能解決人生大哉問，讓人非常嚮往尤其那時的心靈又容易受人影響在這種狀況下思考邏輯如迴圈般走不出來才會相信""文鮮明是上帝的化身""""上帝會解決世間所有問題""而我只要心悅誠服的追隨他就好因為上帝會阻止戰爭和飢餓那也是我的理想我只要心悅誠服的追隨他就好他是上帝派的救世主，有他一切便天下太平這種想法漸漸根深柢固而這種想法最可怕的地方在於它造成了""我們""和""他們""的對立""對""與""錯""的對立""正""與""邪""的對立這讓人什麼事都做得出來一切的行為都被合理化 但是如果當時有辦法一窺我的腦部在我信奉統一教的那幾年裡不像現在有快速發展的神經科學就像雷科茲維昨天說的.科學不斷進步現在我們開始窺探人腦如何運作所以如果當時有辦法一窺我的腦部或是任何像這樣思想中毒的腦子和在座任何人的腦子兩相比較或是和習慣批判性思考的人腦做比較我相信兩種腦子看起來一定非常不同 各位或許會覺得我這麼說很奇怪但這件事給了我希望我有了希望是因為我們做到了解決問題的第一步那就是:承認這個問題的確存在但這是個人腦的問題,或者說是科學的問題存在於我們腦中，並非是外來的邪惡力量要害我們所以透過研究和教育我相信這個問題是可以解決的而解決此問題的第一步就是明白我們可以一起努力不分彼此,終止對立謝謝大家(觀眾掌聲)"
