Talk	en	zh-tw
fahad_al_attiya_a_country_with_no_water	"Salaam alaikum. Welcome to Doha. I am in charge of making this country's food secure. That is my job for the next two years, to design an entire master plan, and then for the next 10 years to implement it — of course, with so many other people. But first, I need to talk to you about a story, which is my story, about the story of this country that you're all here in today. And of course, most of you have had three meals today, and probably will continue to have after this event. So going in, what was Qatar in the 1940s? We were about 11,000 people living here. There was no water. There was no energy, no oil, no cars, none of that. Most of the people who lived here either lived in coastal villages, fishing, or were nomads who roamed around with the environment trying to find water. None of the glamour that you see today existed. No cities like you see today in Doha or Dubai or Abu Dhabi or Kuwait or Riyadh. It wasn't that they couldn't develop cities. Resources weren't there to develop them. And you can see that life expectancy was also short. Most people died around the age of 50. So let's move to chapter two: the oil era. 1939, that's when they discovered oil. But unfortunately, it wasn't really fully exploited commercially until after the Second World War. What did it do? It changed the face of this country, as you can see today and witness. It also made all those people who roamed around the desert — looking for water, looking for food, trying to take care of their livestock — urbanize. You might find this strange, but in my family we have different accents. My mother has an accent that is so different to my father, and we're all a population of about 300,000 people in the same country. There are about five or six accents in this country as I speak. Someone says, ""How so? How could this happen?"" Because we lived scattered. We couldn't live in a concentrated way simply because there was no resources. And when the resources came, be it oil, we started building these fancy technologies and bringing people together because we needed the concentration. People started to get to know each other. And we realized that there are some differences in accents. So that is the chapter two: the oil era. Let's look at today. This is probably the skyline that most of you know about Doha. So what's the population today? It's 1.7 million people. That is in less than 60 years. The average growth of our economy is about 15 percent for the past five years. Lifespan has increased to 78. Water consumption has increased to 430 liters. And this is amongst the highest worldwide. From having no water whatsoever to consuming water to the highest degree, higher than any other nation. I don't know if this was a reaction to lack of water. But what is interesting about the story that I've just said? The interesting part is that we continue to grow 15 percent every year for the past five years without water. Now that is historic. It's never happened before in history. Cities were totally wiped out because of the lack of water. This is history being made in this region. Not only cities that we're building, but cities with dreams and people who are wishing to be scientists, doctors. Build a nice home, bring the architect, design my house. These people are adamant that this is a livable space when it wasn't. But of course, with the use of technology. So Brazil has 1,782 millimeters per year of precipitation of rain. Qatar has 74, and we have that growth rate. The question is how. How could we survive that? We have no water whatsoever. Simply because of this gigantic, mammoth machine called desalination. Energy is the key factor here. It changed everything. It is that thing that we pump out of the ground, we burn tons of, probably most of you used it coming to Doha. So that is our lake, if you can see it. That is our river. That is how you all happen to use and enjoy water. This is the best technology that this region could ever have: desalination. So what are the risks? Do you worry much? I would say, perhaps if you look at the global facts, you will realize, of course I have to worry. There is growing demand, growing population. We've turned seven billion only a few months ago. And so that number also demands food. And there's predictions that we'll be nine billion by 2050. So a country that has no water has to worry about what happens beyond its borders. There's also changing diets. By elevating to a higher socio-economic level, they also change their diet. They start eating more meat and so on and so forth. On the other hand, there is declining yields because of climate change and because of other factors. And so someone has to really realize when the crisis is going to happen. This is the situation in Qatar, for those who don't know. We only have two days of water reserve. We import 90 percent of our food, and we only cultivate less than one percent of our land. The limited number of farmers that we have have been pushed out of their farming practices as a result of open market policy and bringing the big competitions, etc., etc. So we also face risks. These risks directly affect the sustainability of this nation and its continuity. The question is, is there a solution? Is there a sustainable solution? Indeed there is. This slide sums up thousands of pages of technical documents that we've been working on over the past two years. Let's start with the water. So we know very well — I showed you earlier — that we need this energy. So if we're going to need energy, what sort of energy? A depletable energy? Fossil fuel? Or should we use something else? Do we have the comparative advantage to use another sort of energy? I guess most of you by now realize that we do: 300 days of sun. And so we will use that renewable energy to produce the water that we need. And we will probably put 1,800 megawatts of solar systems to produce 3.5 million cubic meters of water. And that is a lot of water. That water will go then to the farmers, and the farmers will be able to water their plants, and they will be able then to supply society with food. But in order to sustain the horizontal line — because these are the projects, these are the systems that we will deliver — we need to also develop the vertical line: system sustenance, high-level education, research and development, industries, technologies, to produce these technologies for application, and finally markets. But what gels all of it, what enables it, is legislation, policies, regulations. Without it we can't do anything. So that's what we are planning to do. Within two years we should hopefully be done with this plan and taking it to implementation. Our objective is to be a millennium city, just like many millennium cities around: Istanbul, Rome, London, Paris, Damascus, Cairo. We are only 60 years old, but we want to live forever as a city, to live in peace. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	願真主賜你們平安。（阿拉伯問候語）歡迎來到杜哈。我負責保障本國的糧食供應。在未來兩年，我的工作是設計一個總體計畫並於十年內執行本計劃－當然，這需要眾人攜手合作。首先我想告訴大家一個故事，這是我的故事，有關你們此時所在的這個國家。想必，大多數聽眾今天都已用過三餐。或許演講結束後還會繼續。 那麼想一下，1940年代時，卡達是什麼情形？當時本國大約有一萬一千名居民。此處沒有水源、沒有能源、沒有石油、沒有汽車，什麽都沒有大多數居住於此的人不是住在沿海村莊，以捕魚維生，就是過著遊牧生活，四處尋找水源。今日眾位所見的繁華在昨日並不存在。亦無今日杜哈、杜拜、阿布達比、科威特或利雅德的繁華這並非由於人們無能開發都市，而是由於資源極度缺乏，無法開發。你們可以發現，那時的人壽命十分短暫。大多數人50歲左右就去世了。 接著，我們進入第二章：石油時代。1939年，人們發現了石油。但不幸的是，大規模商業性質的石油開採到了二次世界大戰結束後才開始。石油造成什麼影響？石油改變了本國的面貌，大家今日有目共睹。石油也使得那些在沙漠中四處遷徙、尋找水源和食物、費心照料牲口的牧民走向都市化。 你們或許感到奇怪，但我的家族成員都擁有不同口音。我母親與父親的口音截然不同。而我們都是土生土長的30萬卡達居民之一。我說話時就用到大約五、六種口音。有人質疑「為何如此？這是怎麼回事？」這是因為以往我們散居各處。僅僅由於資源缺乏，因此我們無法群居生活。當資源－例如石油－出現後我們開始發展這些先進技術將人們聚集起來因為我們需要群眾的力量。人們開始彼此認識。我們才發現彼此擁有不同口音。 這就是第二章：石油時代。我們談談如今的情況。這或許是大多數人所知的杜哈天際線如今的人口是多少？大約170萬這是在不到60年間所取得的成果。過去5年，本國經濟平均增長率大約為15%。平均壽命增加到78歲。平均用水量上升到430公升。可說是全球最高的用水量。從缺乏水源轉變成高度用水量，勝於世上任何國家。我不知道這是否是缺水造成的反效果。 但這個故事中令人感興趣之處為何？令人感興趣的是過去5年中，每年經濟增長率在缺乏水源的情況下，依然維持15%。這具有歷史意義。可說是史無前例的。過去，城市由於缺乏水源而走向衰敗。這是本國于此地區所創造的歷史。我們建造的不僅僅是一座座的城市，而是一座座充滿夢想的城市，在這裡人們期待成為科學家和醫生、建造美麗的家園、請建築師設計自己房子。這些人的毅力使這片不宜居住的土地改頭換面。當然，這必須藉助科技的力量。巴西擁有每年1782毫米的降雨量。而卡達僅有74毫米，但我們達到這一經濟增長率。 問題在於如何做到這一點。我們如何在這種情況下生存？我們依然缺乏水源。僅僅由於這座龐大的名為海水淡化裝置的機器。能源是其中的關鍵因素，它改變了一切。正是我們從地底抽出、大量使用的石油或許大部分聽眾正是藉其前來杜哈。因此這就相當於我們的湖泊，如果你能想像。相當於我們的河流。這正是大家有水可用的原因。這是本國有史以來最偉大的科技：海水淡化裝置 那麼，其中有何風險？你會不會很擔心？我的看法是，如果觀察全球情況，你們將意識到我不得不憂心人口與各項需求與日俱增僅在數月前，全球人口達到了70億。隨之而來的是對糧食的需求。根據預測，到了2050年，全球人口將達90億。 因此一個缺乏水源的國家不得不擔憂國境以外的情況。飲食結構亦發生變化。隨著社會經濟水平的逐漸提高，人們的飲食習慣亦發生改變。例如說，人們開始消耗更多肉類等等。但另一方面，因為氣候變化和其它因素，糧食產量逐漸減少。因此人們必須確實意識到即將發生的危機。 有些人可能不知情，可是卡達的情況是我們僅擁有兩天的淡水儲備量，國內 90% 的糧食都是仰賴進口，全國的耕地面積不到國土的 1%。為數不多的農民已由於市場開放政策及引進的外來競爭等因素被擠出農業行業。因此我們亦面臨某些風險。這些風險直接影響國家的永續發展。 問題是，是否存在解決這些風險的方案？是否存在一個永續的解決方案？這確實存在。這張投影片總結了數千頁科技文獻，這是我們過去兩年的研究成果。我們從水源談起。現在大家十分清楚，如之前所言，我們需要能源。如果我們需要能源，該使用何種能源？耗竭性能源？化石燃料？或者我們該採取其他選擇？我們使用另一類能源的話，能否取得相對優勢？我想大多數聽眾已意識到，我們的確具有相對優勢：每年300天的日照因此我們將使用這種可再生能源，製造我們極需的淡水。我們會使用1800兆瓦的太陽能系統生產350萬立方公尺淡水。水產量十分龐大。 這些水將供給農民，那麼農民就能用水灌溉作物，也可為社會提供糧食。但為了支撐這一橫軸線的計畫—因為這是我們預定設置的項目和系統－縱軸線上，我們也需要發展支撐系統：高等教育、研究開發、工業、科技等，用以發展應用技術，最後是市場行銷。但能使之持之以恆，須建立法律、政策和規章。若沒有這些，一切都是空談。 這就是我們的計畫。我們希望於兩年內完成這一計畫，實施這一計劃。我們的目標是成為屹立千年的城市，如同周遭眾多歷史悠久的城市：伊斯坦堡、羅馬、倫敦、巴黎、大馬士革、開羅。我國僅擁有60年歷史但我們希望成為屹立不倒的城市，生活在和平世界。 十分感謝。 （掌聲）
