Talk	en	zh-tw
fawn_qiu_easy_diy_projects_for_kid_engineers	I design engineering projects for middle school and high school students, often using materials that are pretty unexpected. My inspiration comes from problems in my daily life. For example, one time I needed a costume to go to a comic convention, but I didn't want to spend too much money, so I made my own ... with a light-up crown and skirt. (Laughter) Another time, I was devastated because my favorite mobile game, Flappy Bird, was being taken off the app store. (Laughter) So I was faced with the dilemma to either never update my phone or never play Flappy Bird again. (Laughter) Unhappy with both options, I did the only thing that made sense to me. I made a physical version of Flappy Bird that could never be taken off the app store. (Laughter) (Music) (Beeping) (Music) (Laughter) So a few of my friends were also pretty addicted to the game, and I invited them to play as well. (Video) Friend: Ah! (Laughter) (Video) Friend: What the heck? (Laughter) And they told me that it was just as infuriating as the original game. (Laughter) So I uploaded a demo of this project online, and to my surprise it went viral. It had over two million views in just a few days. (Laughter) And what's more interesting are people's comments. A lot of people wanted to make it their own, or asked me how it was made. So this kind of confirmed my idea that through a creative project, we can teach people about engineering. With the money made from the viral video, we were able to let students in our classroom all make their own game in a box. Although it was pretty challenging, they learned a lot of new concepts in engineering and programming. And they were all eager to learn so they could finish the game as well. (Laughter) So before Flappy Bird Box, I had the idea of using creative engineering projects to teach students. When I was teaching at a middle school, we asked our students to build a robot from a standard technology kit. And I noticed that a lot of them seemed bored. Then a few of them started taking pieces of paper and decorating their robots. And then more of them got into it, and they became more interested in the project. So I started looking for more creative ways to introduce technology to students. What I found was that most technology kits available in school look a little intimidating. They're all made of plastic parts that you can't customize. On top of that, they're all very expensive, costing hundreds of dollars per kit. So that's certainly not very affordable for most classroom budgets. Since I didn't find anything, I decided to make something on my own. I started with paper and fabric. After all, we all played with those since we were kids, and they are also pretty cheap and can be found anywhere around the house. And I prototyped a project where students can create a light-up creature using fabric and googly eyes. They were all helping each other in classrooms, and were laughing and discussing the project. And most importantly, they were able to insert their own creativity into the project. So because of the success of this project, I continued to create more engineering projects to challenge my students. And I also started to take these workshops outside of school and into the community. And something really interesting happened. I noticed a lot of people from very diverse backgrounds started coming to our workshops. And specifically, there were a lot more women and minorities than I expected, and that you wouldn't usually see at a traditional engineering workshop. Now take a look at this employee report at a major technology company in 2016. Women make up only 19 percent of the technology workforce. And underrepresented minorities make up only four percent. This statistic might look familiar if you walked into a high school robotics club, or a college engineering class. Now, there's a wide variety of problems that contribute to the lack of diversity in the technology force. Perhaps one solution could be to introduce technology to students through creative projects. I'm not saying that this could solve everything, but it could introduce technology to people who originally wouldn't be interested in it because of how it has been portrayed and taught in school. So how do we start to change the perception of technology? Most students think that it's boring or unwelcoming, so I have always designed projects following three principles. First is having a low floor, and that means this project is easy to get started. So take a look at this tutorial. The first project we asked students to learn is to make a circuit on paper. As you can see, it doesn't take very long to learn, and it's pretty easy even for beginners. And having a low floor also means that we're removing the financial barrier that prevents people from completing a project. So with paper, copper tape, lightbulb and a battery, people can complete this project for under a dollar. So second principle is having a high ceiling. This means that there's a lot of room to grow, and students are constantly being challenged. At first it might just be a light-up creature, but then you can add sensors and microcontrollers, and start to program the creature to interact with its environment. (Laughter) And finally, the third principle is customization. This means that we can make this project relevant to anyone. That's the beauty of using everyday materials; it's very easy to customize using paper and fabric. So even if you don't like Flappy Bird, you can still make your own game. (Video) Student: So our game is about Justin Bieber, because he's been speeding, and the object is to prevent him from getting caught by the LAPD — (Laughter) (Video) Student: Yeah, but he's changing so — we're a part of his posse. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)	我設計工程項目為初中和高中學生，經常使用意想不到的材料。我的靈感來自我日常生活的問題。例如，有一次我需要一套出席漫畫大會的服裝，但我不想為此花費太多金錢，所以我自製服裝……配襯發光的王冠和短裙。 （笑聲） 另一次，我非常傷心，因為我最喜愛的手機遊戲「笨鳥先飛」，從應用程式商店下架。 （笑聲） 所以我當時面對兩難局面，不再更新我的電話，或是不再玩「笨鳥先飛」。 （笑聲） 不滿足於這兩個選擇，我做了自己認為唯一合理的事。我製作了實體版的「笨鳥先飛」，而它不會從應用程式商店下架。 （笑聲） （音樂） （嗶嗶聲） （音樂） （笑聲） 我的幾個朋友也頗著迷於此遊戲，我邀請他們一起玩。 （影片）朋友：呀！ （笑聲） （影片）朋友：甚麼事？ （笑聲） 而他們告訴我這如同原版遊戲一樣容易使人發怒。 （笑聲） 所以我在網絡上載了這遊戲示範，意想不到的是它竟迅速走紅。短短幾天裏有超過二百萬觀看次數。 （笑聲） 而更有趣的是人們的留言。很多人想自製，或是問我如何製作。因此這有點支持了我的想法，就是透過一個創意方案，我們能夠教導人關於工程的知識。 運用那段走紅的影片帶來的收入，我們能夠讓學生在我們的課室各自製作他們的盒子遊戲。雖然這頗具挑戰性，他們學到很多工程和程式編寫的新概念。而他們全都渴望學習，這使得他們同時能夠完成遊戲。 （笑聲） 在「笨鳥先飛」盒子之前，我已想透過創意工程方案來教導學生。當我任教於一間初中時，我們請學生運用標準的技術套件來製作機械人。我注意到他們中的許多人看起來覺得很沉悶。然後有幾個學生開始拿著紙張並裝飾他們的機械人。之後更多學生開始動手，而他們變得對那設計方案更感興趣。所以我開始尋找更有創意的方式來把科技知識介紹給學生。我發現在學校找到的大部分科技工具包看來有點嚇人。它們全都由你不能客製化的塑膠部件組成除此之外，它們全都非常昂貴，每套售價數百美元。所以這當然不是大部分課堂預算很能負擔的 因為我當時找不到適合的教具，所以我決定自己製作一些東西。我由紙張和布料開始。到頭來，我們兒時都曾玩過這些東西，而且它們也都頗便宜並能輕易在家中找到。我製作了試作的設計方案，讓學生創作會發光的生物，運用布料和活動眼睛等材料。他們在課堂上互相幫助，並有說有笑地討論設計。最重要的是，他們能夠把自己的創意注入設計當中。 因為這設計方案的成功，我繼續創作更多工程方案來挑戰我的學生。我也開始把這些工作坊帶出校園而進入社區。然後一些很有趣的事發生了。我注意到很多來自不同背景的人開始參加我們的工作坊。而更具體地說，比我預期中有更多女性和少數族裔參加，而這情況你不會在傳統的工程工作坊裡看到。 現在看看一間主要科技公司於 2016 年的僱員報告。女性只佔科技人員的 19%。而少數族裔只佔 4%。這數據可能看起來很熟悉，當你走進一間高中的機械人學會，或一間學院的工程課。 現在，有各種各類的問題以致科技人員不夠多元。也許其中一個解決方法是透過創意方案向學生介紹科技。我不是說這能解決一切，但它能把科技介紹給原本因為學校的教導和呈現方式而對科技不感興趣的人 所以，我們如何開始改變他們對科技的觀感？大部分學生認為科技是沉悶或不易應用的，就此我總是依照三項原則來設計。第一是低門檻，即是這個方案容易開始。看一看這教程。我們請學生學習的第一個方案是在紙上連接一個閉合電路。正如你所見，它不需花很長時間學習，對於初學者也頗容易。有著低門檻也意味著我們移除了防礙人完成設計的財政屏障。運用紙張、銅線、燈泡和電池，人們便可以低於一美元來完成方案。 第二個原則是高上限。這意味著有很多成長空間，而學生持續接受挑戰。首先它也許只是個發光生物，但之後你可以加上感應器和微控制器，並開始編寫程式，讓那生物與環境互動。 （笑聲） 而最後，第三個原則是客製化。這意謂我們能夠讓這計劃與任何人相關。這就是運用日常物料的好處；我們非常容易運用紙張和布料來進行客製。因此即使你不喜歡「笨鳥先飛」，你仍可自製遊戲。 （影片）學生：我們的遊戲關於賈斯汀·比伯，因為他一直超速駕駛，而這物件是避免他被洛杉磯市警察局逮捕 — （笑聲） （影片）學生：對呀，但他在改變 —我們跟他是一夥的。 （笑聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
