Talk	en	zh-tw
fields_wicker_miurin_learning_from_leadership_s_missing_manual	"I'm going to talk about some of my discoveries around the world through my work. These are not discoveries of planets or new technologies or science. They're discoveries of people and the way people are, and new leadership. This is Benki. Benki is a leader of the Ashaninka Nation. His people live in Brazil and in Peru. Benki comes from a village so remote up in the Amazon that to get there, either you have to fly and land on water, or go by canoe for several days. I met Benki three years ago in Sao Paulo when I'd brought him and other leaders from indigenous peoples to meet with me and leaders from around the world, because we wanted to learn from each other. We wanted to share our stories with each other. The Ashaninka people are known throughout South America for their dignity, their spirit and their resistance, starting with the Incas and continuing through the 19th century with the rubber tappers. Today's biggest threat to the Ashaninka people and to Benki comes from illegal logging — the people who come into the beautiful forest and cut down ancient mahogany trees, float them down the river to world markets. Benki knew this. He could see what was happening to his forest, to his environment, because he was taken under his grandfather's wing when he was only two years old to begin to learn about the forest and the way of life of his people. His grandfather died when he was only 10. And at that young age, 10 years old, Benki became the paje of his community. Now, in the Ashaninka tradition and culture, the paje is the most important person in the community. This is the person who contains within him all the knowledge, all the wisdom of centuries and centuries of life, and not just about his people, but about everything that his people's survival depended on: the trees, the birds, the water, the soil, the forest. So when he was only 10 and he became the paje, he began to lead his people. He began to talk to them about the forest that they needed to protect, the way of life they needed to nurture. He explained to them that it was not a question of survival of the fittest; it was a question of understanding what they needed to survive and to protect that. Eight years later, when he was a young man of 18, Benki left the forest for the first time. He went 3,000 miles on an odyssey to Rio to the Earth Summit to tell the world what was happening in his tiny, little corner. And he went because he hoped the world would listen. Some did, not everybody. But if you can imagine this young man with his headdress and his flowing robe, learning a new language, Portuguese, not to mention English, going to Rio, building a bridge to reach out to people he'd never met before — a pretty hostile world. But he wasn't dismayed. Benki came back to his village full of ideas — new technologies, new research, new ways of understanding what was going on. Since that time, he's continued to work with his people, and not only the Ashaninka Nation, but all the peoples of the Amazon and beyond. He's built schools to teach children to care for the forest. Together, he's led the reforestation of over 25 percent of the land that had been destroyed by the loggers. He's created a cooperative to help people diversify their livelihoods. And he's brought the internet and satellite technology to the forest — both so that people themselves could monitor the deforestation, but also that he could speak from the forest to the rest of the world. If you were to meet Benki and ask him, ""Why are you doing this? Why are you putting yourself at risk? Why are you making yourself vulnerable to what is often a hostile world?"" he would tell you, as he told me, ""I asked myself,"" he said, ""What did my grandparents and my great-grandparents do to protect the forest for me? And what am I doing?"" So when I think of that, I wonder what our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren, when they ask themselves that question, I wonder how they will answer. For me, the world is veering towards a future we don't much want when we really think about it deep inside. It's a future we don't know the details of, but it's a future that has signs, just like Benki saw the signs around him. We know we are running out of what we need. We're running out of fresh water. We're running out of fossil fuels. We're running out of land. We know climate change is going to affect all of us. We don't know how, but we know it will. And we know that there will be more of us than ever before — five times as many people in 40 years than 60 years ago. We are running out of what we need. And we also know that the world has changed in other ways, that since 1960 there are one-third as many new countries that exist as independent entities on the planet. Egos, systems of government — figuring it out — massive change. And in addition to that, we know that five other really big countries are going to have a say in the future, a say we haven't even really started to hear yet — China, India, Russia, South Africa and Benki's own Brazil, where Benki got his civil rights only in the 1988 constitution. But you know all that. You know more than Benki knew when he left his forest and went 3,000 miles. You also know that we can't just keep doing what we've always done, because we'll get the results we've always gotten. And this reminds me of something I understand Lord Salisbury said to Queen Victoria over a hundred years ago, when she was pressing him, ""Please change."" He said, ""Change? Why change? Things are bad enough as they are."" We have to change. It's imperative to me, when I look around the world, that we need to change ourselves. We need new models of what it means to be a leader. We need new models of being a leader and a human in the world. I started life as a banker. Now I don't admit to that to anybody but my very close friends. But for the past eight years, I've done something completely different. My work has taken me around the world, where I've had the real privilege of meeting people like Benki and many others who are making change happen in their communities — people who see the world differently, who are asking different questions, who have different answers, who understand the filters that they wear when they go out into the world. This is Sanghamitra. Sanghamitra comes from Bangalore. I met Sanghamitra eight years ago when I was in Bangalore organizing a workshop with leaders of different NGO's working in some of the hardest aspects of society. Sanghamitra didn't start life as a leader of an NGO, she started her career as university professor, teaching English literature. But she realized that she was much too detached from the world doing that. She loved it, but she was too detached. And so in 1993, a long time ago, she decided to start a new organization called Samraksha focused on one of the hardest areas, one of the hardest issues in India — anywhere in the world at the time — HIV/AIDS. Since that time, Samraksha has grown from strength to strength and is now one of the leading health NGO's in India. But if you just think about the state of the world and knowledge of HIV/AIDS in 1993 — in India at that time it was skyrocketing and nobody understood why, and everyone was actually very, very afraid. Today there are still three million HIV-positive people in India. That's the second largest population in the world. When I asked Sanghamitra, ""How did you get from English literature to HIV/AIDS?"" not an obvious path, she said to me, ""It's all connected. Literature makes one sensitive, sensitive to people, to their dreams and to their ideas."" Since that time, under her leadership, Samraksha has been a pioneer in all fields related to HIV/AIDS. They have respite homes, the first, the first care centers, the first counseling services — and not just in urban, 7-million-population Bangalore, but in the hardest to reach villages in the state of Karnataka. Even that wasn't enough. She wanted to change policy at the government level. 10 of their programs that she pioneered are now government policy and funded by the government. They take care of 20,000-odd people today in over 1,000 villages around Karnataka. She works with people like Murali Krishna. Murali Krishna comes from one of those villages. He lost his wife to AIDS a couple of years ago, and he's HIV-positive. But he saw the work, the care, the compassion that Sanghamitra and her team brought to the village, and he wanted to be part of it. He's a Leaders' Quest fellow, and that helps him with his work. They've pioneered a different approach to villages. Instead of handing out information in pamphlets, as is so often the case, they bring theater troupes, songs, music, dance. And they sit around, and they talk about dreams. Sanghamitra told me just last week — she had just come back from two weeks in the villages, and she had a real breakthrough. They were sitting in a circle, talking about the dreams for the village. And the young women in the village spoke up and said, ""We've changed our dream. Our dream is for our partners, our husbands, not to be given to us because of a horoscope, but to be given to us because they've been tested for HIV."" If you are lucky enough to meet Sanghamitra and ask her why and how, how have you achieved so much? She would look at you and very quietly, very softly say, ""It just happened. It's the spirit inside."" This is Dr. Fan Jianchuan. Jianchuan comes from Sichuan Province in southwest China. He was born in 1957, and you can imagine what his childhood looked like and felt like, and what his life has been like over the last 50 tumultuous years. He's been a soldier, a teacher, a politician, a vice-mayor and a business man. But if you sat down and asked him, ""Who are you really, and what do you do?"" He would tell you, ""I'm a collector, and I curate a museum."" I was lucky; I had heard about him for years, and I finally met him earlier this year at his museum in Chengdu. He's been a collector all of his life, starting when he was four or five in the early 1960's. Now, just think of the early 1960's in China. Over a lifetime, through everything, through the Cultural Revolution and everything afterward, he's kept collecting, so that he now has over eight million pieces in his museums documenting contemporary Chinese history. These are pieces that you won't find anywhere else in the world, in part because they document parts of history Chinese choose to forget. For example, he's got over one million pieces documenting the Sino-Japanese War, a war that's not talked about in China very much and whose heroes are not honored. Why did he do all this? Because he thought a nation should never repeat the mistakes of the past. So, from commissioning slightly larger than life bronze statues of the heroes of the Sino-Japanese War, including those Chinese who then fought with each other and left mainland China to go to Taiwan, to commemorating all the unknown, ordinary soldiers who survived, by asking them to take prints of their hands, he is making sure — one man is making sure — that history is not forgotten. But it's not just Chinese heroes he cares about. This building contains the world's largest collection of documents and artifacts commemorating the U.S. role in fighting on the Chinese side in that long war — the Flying Tigers. He has nine other buildings — that are already open to the public — filled to the rafters with artifacts documenting contemporary Chinese history. Two of the most sensitive buildings include a lifetime of collection about the Cultural Revolution, a period that actually most Chinese would prefer to forget. But he doesn't want his nation ever to forget. These people inspire me, and they inspire me because they show us what is possible when you change the way you look at the world, change the way you look at your place in the world. They looked outside, and then they changed what was on the inside. They didn't go to business school. They didn't read a manual, ""How to Be a Good Leader in 10 Easy Steps."" But they have qualities we'd all recognize. They have drive, passion, commitment. They've gone away from what they did before, and they've gone to something they didn't know. They've tried to connect worlds they didn't know existed before. They've built bridges, and they've walked across them. They have a sense of the great arc of time and their tiny place in it. They know people have come before them and will follow them. And they know that they're part of a whole, that they depend on other people. It's not about them, they know that, but it has to start with them. And they have humility. It just happens. But we know it doesn't just happen, don't we? We know it takes a lot to make it happen, and we know the direction the world is going in. So I think we need succession planning on a global basis. We can't wait for the next generation, the new joiners, to come in and learn how to be the good leaders we need. I think it has to start with us. And we know, just like they knew, how hard it is. But the good news is that we don't have to figure it out as we go along; we have models, we have examples, like Benki and Sanghamitra and Jianchuan. We can look at what they've done, if we look. We can learn from what they've learned. We can change the way we see ourselves in the world. And if we're lucky, we can change the way our great-grandchildren will answer Benki's question. Thank you. (Applause)"	我要談一談通過我的工作，得到的世界範圍的一些發現。這些不是關於地球科學技術的發現它們是關於人和領導力。 這人是Benki。Benki是Ashaninka民族的領袖他的人民住在巴西和秘魯。Benki來自亞馬遜河流域的邊遠小村莊。去那裡，你要麼坐飛機並在水中降落要麼花上幾天的時間坐劃艇去。三天之前，我在Sao Paulo遇見Benki。那天我和他，還有全世界的土著領袖們相聚一堂。因為我們希望相互學習。我們希望互相分享我們的經驗 Ashaninka人民從印加時代到19世紀的割橡膠時代在南美洲以他們自己的尊嚴，精神反抗精神而廣為人知。目前對Ashaninka人民和Benki最大的威脅是來自非法伐木伐木工人來到這個美麗的大森林砍倒古老的紅木樹，讓木材順著河流一直到世界市場Benki知道這些。他能預見他的森林，他的生存環境會變成什麼樣子因為他是在他祖父的教導下長大，當他兩歲的時候就開始學習森林他們人民的生活方式在他僅僅10歲的時候，他祖父過世了。在這年輕的年齡，10歲Benki 成為他宗族裏面的（帕傑）智者在Ashaninka的傳統文化中帕傑在宗族裏面是一位很重要的人物。帕傑是一位擁有所有知識和所有智慧的一個人。這些知識和智慧不僅僅包括他的人民還包括他人民賴以生存的一切樹，鳥水，土地，森林。所以在他僅僅10歲當上帕傑的時候他就開始領導他的人民。他就開始和他的人民談論關於保護森林，生活的方法。他給他人民解釋這不是關於適者生存的問題，問題是要理解他們活下來需要什麼東西並去保護那些東西。 8年之後，當Benki成為18歲的青年人，他首次離開森林。他長途旅行到了3千英里之外的Rio參加地球峰會並告訴世界，在他那個小地方發生的事情。他參加那個會議是因為他希望全世界能聆聽。不是每個人都在聆聽，一部分人聽了。但是如果你想像一下這個青年人帶著頭飾，穿著飄拂的長袍正在學習一門新語言，葡萄牙語。更別提英語了。他去Rio-這個十分不友善的世界。他努力去接觸他之前沒有結識過的人們。但是他沒有氣餒。 Benki滿懷著想法，新技術，新研究成果，對於正在發生的一切事情的新理解方法回到了他的小村莊。從那之後，他繼續和他的人民一起努力工作。不僅僅是阿紗凝卡民族所有亞馬遜流域的人民他建造學校教孩子們照看森林大家一起讓被伐木工人毀滅的25%土地重新變為森林他建立合作農場幫助人們多樣化謀生他將互聯網和衛星技術帶回原始森林這樣當地的人們可以監視砍伐森林的行為他們還可以與世界其他地方的人們交流如果你遇見了Benki并問他，你爲什麽做這些？你爲什麽冒這個風險？你爲什麽讓自己暴露給這個時常充滿敵意的世界他會像回答我一樣的那樣告訴你他說，我問我自己我的祖輩們為我保護這森林都做了些什麽？而我又在做些什麽呢？ 所以當我想到這些問題的時候我想知道，我的子孫們當他們問他們自己這些問題的時候我想知道，他們將如何回答這些問題對我而言，這個世界正在向我們不希望的方向改變當我們真正深入思考這些問題的時候我們不知道未來的一些細節但是未來有著一些徵兆就像Benki看到他周圍發生的徵兆一樣我們知道我們正在耗盡資源我們正在耗盡淡水我們正在耗盡石油我們正在耗盡土地我們知道氣候改變將影響我們大家我們不知道它是如何影響的，但是我們知道它將會影響我們我們知道我們現在的人口比以前要多在40年里增長5倍比60年前。我們正在耗盡我們的資源並且我們也知道世界已經以另外一種方式在改變自從1960地球上誕生了1/3的獨立國家。政府系統明白巨大的改變除此之外我們知道5個大國在未來將有發言權我們不曾真正凝聽過他們的聲音中華人民共和國，印度俄羅斯，南非Benki的巴西Benki得到了巴西的公民權在1988的憲法中 你知道這所有當Benki走了3000英里，走出他的那片森林的時候，你知道的比他多你也知道我們不能繼續保持我們現在一直的做法因為那樣我們將得到報應這提醒了我一些事情一百多年以前，索爾斯伯利勳爵對維多利亞女王說當她告訴他,請改變他回答，改變？爲什麽改變事情就像它原本的那樣的糟糕我們不得不改變當我看看我周圍這世界我們需要改變我們自己是至關重要的事情我們需要新的領導模式我們需要新的領導模式和新的生存模式 我像一個銀行家那樣生活現在我不得不向我非常親密的朋友坦白但是8年之前，我已經做了些完全不同的事情我的工作是要滿世界跑的我有機會與像Benki一樣的領導者會面，他們正在做出一些改變這些領導者看到不同的世界他們問出不同的問題他們有不同的答案當他們走向世界他們理解他們自己的文化。 這是Sanghamitra.她來自班格洛爾我八年之前在班格洛爾遇見了Sanghamitra.當時我正在和一些來自不同的非政府組織領導者們參加一個研討會，討論社會的最困難的問題Sanghamitra 一開始不是一位非政府組織的領導者她開始人生的職業是大學教授是教英文文學但是她意識到她作教授這個職業就與這個現實世界脫離了她喜歡這個職業但是這會使她與現實世界脫離所以在1993年離現在很久之前她決定開辦一家新的組織叫做Samraksha這組織專注與最難得領域在印度，困難最大的一個問題當前全世界最困難的問題艾滋病從那之後，Samraksha逐漸壯大起來現在該組織已是印度最重要的健康保健非政府組織但是如果你思考這個世界現在的狀態艾滋病的知識但是在1993年在那個時間，艾滋病在印度飛速傳播沒有人知道這是爲什麽每個人都非常，非常害怕現在依然有三百萬艾滋病人在印度這是世界人第二人口大國的情況 當我問Sanghamitra,你爲什麽從英語文學轉到艾滋病事業這不是個典型的職業轉換她告訴我這是有聯繫的文學使我敏感對人民敏感對他們的夢想，他們的想法敏感從那之後，在她的領導之下Samraksha已經成為艾滋病相關領域的領航者他們建立了第一個收留艾滋病人之家第一家治療艾滋病中心第一家諮詢服務中心不僅僅是在擁有7百萬人口的城市Bangalore還有在Karnataka省的一些最困難的小鄉村即使這樣還是不夠的她希望在政府的層次改變政策由她倡導的10的項目已經得到了政府政策上和資金上的支持現在他們照顧Karnataka省周圍1千個村子中的2萬老年人 她和Murali Krishna一樣的人民一起工作Murali Krishna來自其中一個小村莊他的妻子因為艾滋病離他而去他也是艾滋病人但是他看見了Sanghramitra組織帶給小鄉村的工作，愛心，同情之心他希望成為組織其中一員他現在是調查人，是幫助組織工作的他們用一個完全不同的方法幫助小鄉村而不是用以往發宣傳小冊子傳統的方法他們帶來了表演團歌聲，音樂，舞蹈大家做成一圈談夢想 Sanghamitra告訴我僅僅上一周她剛剛從鄉村回來兩周她有了一個真正的突破大家圍坐成一圈，談夢想鄉村裏面的年輕的婦女發言：我們已經改變我們的夢想我們的夢想是為我們的老公不是為我們自己，因為命運也是為我們自己因為我們的老公已經被檢查有艾滋病如果你幸運地遇見了Sanghamitra問她爲什麽要這樣做，又是如何做到的你是如何做到成就這麼大的事業的她會看著你非常平靜，非常平緩地說它就是實現了它是我內心的精神 這是Fan Jianchuan博士Jianchuan來自中華人民共和國西南部四川省他出生于1957年大家能相信一下他的童年，和他風風雨雨走過的這50多年的人生歷程他當過兵，當過人民教師公務員，副市長生意人但是如果你坐下來問他：你如何定位你自己你是做什麽的他將告訴你：我是一位收藏家我管理一家博物館我是幸運地，幾年之前我就聽說過他的故事今年初，在成都我終於在他博物館里見到了他 他的一生都在收藏1960年早期，當他4,5歲的時候，他就開始收藏現在想想1960年早期的中國他花了一生的時間在收藏，關於文化大革命的東西，之後的一些東西他還堅持收藏以至於他的博物館里現在有超過8百萬件收藏品這些收藏品記錄了當代中國人民的歷史有一些收藏品，你在世界任何其它地方都不可能找到這些收藏品記錄著歷史的一部份中國人民趨向于遺忘舉例，他收藏有一百多萬件收藏品這些收藏品見證著日本侵華戰爭在中國，這場戰爭已不被常常談論起了中華英雄們也已不被常常談論但是他爲什麽要收藏這些呢因為他認為一個國家不能重蹈覆轍 所以他委託製作了一些日本侵華戰爭中的中華英雄的青銅像這些中華英雄包括國民黨中的中華英雄他們中的一部份離開了中國大陸去往了中國台灣為了紀念所有無名英雄及其他們的英雄故事他去拜訪那些在戰爭中倖存下來的老兵并留取他們的手印他在證實，一個男人在證實這段不可遺忘的歷史他不僅僅只關心中華英雄這個博物館裏面還有世界上最大的見證美國英雄在這場戰爭中的角色的收藏品在這場持久戰中，和中國英雄們並肩作戰的美國英雄他們就是飛虎隊Jianchuan擁有9個其他建築已經準備對公眾開放支架上擺滿了記錄著當代中國人民歷史的收藏品有兩個最敏感的建築包括了他一生收藏的關於文化大革命的收藏品這是一段大多數中國人不愿提起的歷史但是他不希望國家遺忘這段歷史 這些人激勵著我他們激勵我，是因為他們向我展現當我們看著這個世界并改變我們看待自己的方式的時候這一切是可能實現的他們眺望外面的世界并改變著他們內心的世界他們沒有去商學院讀過書他們沒有讀過類似于 “10個簡單步驟 教你如何做一位優秀領導者”這樣的手冊但是他們有領導者的素養，我們能發現這一點。他們擁有驅動力，激情，責任感他們從他們熟悉的領域走出他們向著他們未知的領域邁進。他們嘗試聯繫那些他們不曾瞭解的世界他們已經建立了通往他們不曾瞭解的那些世界的橋樑，并走了過去他們走在時代之橋上他們有這個能力他們知道人們已經來到他們面前他們信任團隊裏面的其他人他們知道團隊只有領導者是不夠的他們信任團隊裏面的其他人他們知道團隊只有領導者是不夠的但是領導者是走在團隊的最前面的同時，他們是謙遜的事業就是這樣實現了 但是我們知道這是不容易的我們知道這是要花費很多才實現的我們知道世界的發展方向所以我認為我們需要以全球為基礎的可持續發展的計劃我們不能等待下一代人來學習如何成為我們需要的卓越領導者我認為我們要從我們自己做起我們知道這是十分困難的但是好消息是我們不要重新想方法去實現我們有Benki，Sanghamitri，Jianchuan這樣的榜樣和例子如果我們學習他們，我們能學習他們是如何實現的我們能學習他們的經驗我們能改變我們的人生觀，世界觀如果我們幸運的話我們能改變這一切我們的子孫後代將會回答Benki的問題 謝謝 （掌聲）
