Talk	en	zh-tw
fiorenzo_omenetto_silk_the_ancient_material_of_the_future	Thank you. I'm thrilled to be here. I'm going to talk about a new, old material that still continues to amaze us, and that might impact the way we think about material science, high technology — and maybe, along the way, also do some stuff for medicine and for global health and help reforestation. So that's kind of a bold statement. I'll tell you a little bit more. This material actually has some traits that make it seem almost too good to be true. It's sustainable; it's a sustainable material that is processed all in water and at room temperature — and is biodegradable with a clock, so you can watch it dissolve instantaneously in a glass of water or have it stable for years. It's edible; it's implantable in the human body without causing any immune response. It actually gets reintegrated in the body. And it's technological, so it can do things like microelectronics, and maybe photonics do. And the material looks something like this. In fact, this material you see is clear and transparent. The components of this material are just water and protein. So this material is silk. So it's kind of different from what we're used to thinking about silk. So the question is, how do you reinvent something that has been around for five millennia? The process of discovery, generally, is inspired by nature. And so we marvel at silk worms — the silk worm you see here spinning its fiber. The silk worm does a remarkable thing: it uses these two ingredients, protein and water, that are in its gland, to make a material that is exceptionally tough for protection — so comparable to technical fibers like Kevlar. And so in the reverse engineering process that we know about, and that we're familiar with, for the textile industry, the textile industry goes and unwinds the cocoon and then weaves glamorous things. We want to know how you go from water and protein to this liquid Kevlar, to this natural Kevlar. So the insight is how do you actually reverse engineer this and go from cocoon to gland and get water and protein that is your starting material. And this is an insight that came, about two decades ago, from a person that I'm very fortunate to work with, David Kaplan. And so we get this starting material. And so this starting material is back to the basic building block. And then we use this to do a variety of things — like, for example, this film. And we take advantage of something that is very simple. The recipe to make those films is to take advantage of the fact that proteins are extremely smart at what they do. They find their way to self-assemble. So the recipe is simple: you take the silk solution, you pour it, and you wait for the protein to self-assemble. And then you detach the protein and you get this film, as the proteins find each other as the water evaporates. But I mentioned that the film is also technological. And so what does that mean? It means that you can interface it with some of the things that are typical of technology, like microelectronics and nanoscale technology. And the image of the DVD here is just to illustrate a point that silk follows very subtle topographies of the surface, which means that it can replicate features on the nanoscale. So it would be able to replicate the information that is on the DVD. And we can store information that's film with water and protein. So we tried something out, and we wrote a message in a piece of silk, which is right here, and the message is over there. And much like in the DVD, you can read it out optically. And this requires a stable hand, so this is why I decided to do it onstage in front of a thousand people. So let me see. So as you see the film go in transparently through there, and then ... (Applause) And the most remarkable feat is that my hand actually stayed still long enough to do that. So once you have these attributes of this material, then you can do a lot of things. It's actually not limited to films. And so the material can assume a lot of formats. And then you go a little crazy, and so you do various optical components or you do microprism arrays, like the reflective tape that you have on your running shoes. Or you can do beautiful things that, if the camera can capture, you can make. You can add a third dimensionality to the film. And if the angle is right, you can actually see a hologram appear in this film of silk. But you can do other things. You can imagine that then maybe you can use a pure protein to guide light, and so we've made optical fibers. But silk is versatile and it goes beyond optics. And you can think of different formats. So for instance, if you're afraid of going to the doctor and getting stuck with a needle, we do microneedle arrays. What you see there on the screen is a human hair superimposed on the needle that's made of silk — just to give you a sense of size. You can do bigger things. You can do gears and nuts and bolts — that you can buy at Whole Foods. And the gears work in water as well. So you think of alternative mechanical parts. And maybe you can use that liquid Kevlar if you need something strong to replace peripheral veins, for example, or maybe an entire bone. And so you have here a little example of a small skull — what we call mini Yorick. (Laughter) But you can do things like cups, for example, and so, if you add a little bit of gold, if you add a little bit of semiconductors you could do sensors that stick on the surfaces of foods. You can do electronic pieces that fold and wrap. Or if you're fashion forward, some silk LED tattoos. So there's versatility, as you see, in the material formats, that you can do with silk. But there are still some unique traits. I mean, why would you want to do all these things for real? I mentioned it briefly at the beginning; the protein is biodegradable and biocompatible. And you see here a picture of a tissue section. And so what does that mean, that it's biodegradable and biocompatible? You can implant it in the body without needing to retrieve what is implanted. Which means that all the devices that you've seen before and all the formats, in principle, can be implanted and disappear. And what you see there in that tissue section, in fact, is you see that reflector tape. So, much like you're seen at night by a car, then the idea is that you can see, if you illuminate tissue, you can see deeper parts of tissue because there is that reflective tape there that is made out of silk. And you see there, it gets reintegrated in tissue. And reintegration in the human body is not the only thing, but reintegration in the environment is important. So you have a clock, you have protein, and now a silk cup like this can be thrown away without guilt — (Applause) unlike the polystyrene cups that unfortunately fill our landfills everyday. It's edible, so you can do smart packaging around food that you can cook with the food. It doesn't taste good, so I'm going to need some help with that. But probably the most remarkable thing is that it comes full circle. Silk, during its self-assembly process, acts like a cocoon for biological matter. And so if you change the recipe, and you add things when you pour — so you add things to your liquid silk solution — where these things are enzymes or antibodies or vaccines, the self-assembly process preserves the biological function of these dopants. So it makes the materials environmentally active and interactive. So that screw that you thought about beforehand can actually be used to screw a bone together — a fractured bone together — and deliver drugs at the same, while your bone is healing, for example. Or you could put drugs in your wallet and not in your fridge. So we've made a silk card with penicillin in it. And we stored penicillin at 60 degrees C, so 140 degrees Fahrenheit, for two months without loss of efficacy of the penicillin. And so that could be —- (Applause) that could be potentially a good alternative to solar powered refrigerated camels. (Laughter) And of course, there's no use in storage if you can't use [it]. And so there is this other unique material trait that these materials have, that they're programmably degradable. And so what you see there is the difference. In the top, you have a film that has been programmed not to degrade, and in the bottom, a film that has been programmed to degrade in water. And what you see is that the film on the bottom releases what is inside it. So it allows for the recovery of what we've stored before. And so this allows for a controlled delivery of drugs and for reintegration in the environment in all of these formats that you've seen. So the thread of discovery that we have really is a thread. We're impassioned with this idea that whatever you want to do, whether you want to replace a vein or a bone, or maybe be more sustainable in microelectronics, perhaps drink a coffee in a cup and throw it away without guilt, maybe carry your drugs in your pocket, deliver them inside your body or deliver them across the desert, the answer may be in a thread of silk. Thank you. (Applause)	謝謝我非常高興來到這兒我想談談一個新的老材料而且, 我們持續在此材料的研究中感到驚奇這可能會徹底改變我們對於材料科學與高科技的想法也或許 繼續下去能為醫藥與全球健康盡心力 也能幫助再造林這是我們的大膽宣言我會再多作說明的這材料的確會有著好到讓人難以想像的特徵它絕對是對環境永續的製程只在水中與室溫下進行隨時間控制 它是生物可分解的所以你能看著它很快的溶解於水中或是能穩定存在好幾年是可食用 是可被植入人體且不會造成排斥反應它能在體內再組合它也是科技產品所以它能製作成微電子元件或是光電元件這材料長的像這樣實際上 這材料是透明的成分就只是水和蛋白質 這材料是 絲有點不同於我們穿著的 絲所以問題是 怎麼能再創造發明這已存在5000年的東西?發現的過程 也是來自自然界的啟發我們讚嘆蠶寶寶這隻蠶正在吐出纖維蠶寶寶作的神奇事是:它用的成分就只是它腺體中的蛋白質跟水製造出具有保護作用的特別堅硬物質相當於科技纖維像是Kevlar (防彈纖維)利用紡織界常用也是我們都知道與熟悉的逆向工程研究:紡織界解開蠶繭再利用絲編出迷人織物我們想知道的是 怎麼從水和蛋白質產生液狀防彈纖維 就是這天然的防彈纖維 重要的是你要如何執行逆向工程從蠶繭到腺體分泌才到水和蛋白質 也就是我們確定的初始物質這核心發現來自於20年前我有幸能共事過的一位同事David Kaplan我們有著初始物質水和蛋白質 就是基本的構造我們用這試著作出不同的東西比如 像這個 薄膜我門實際上利用蛋白質的優勢這薄膜的製作方式就是利用蛋白質是非常聰明的他們能自己找到位置作組合堆疊製作方法很簡單: 拿絲的溶液 倒出等著蛋白質作自行結合堆疊撕下蛋白質就是這張薄膜隨著溶液蒸發, 蛋白質會與其他蛋白質相觸 我剛剛強調這薄膜是具有科技性的怎麼說呢?它可以成為典型的科技事物像是微電子元件 與 奈米級科技的介面這照片上的DVD光碟片只是要表示一個重點絲能夠將就各式表面的微妙形狀換句話說他們能複製奈米級的特性也就能夠複製DVD上的資訊我們能儲存資訊在水和蛋白質作成的薄膜這是我們的嘗試 留下些訊息在這塊絲上面就是這塊絲 訊息在這邊像DVD般 可以用光學方式讀取這需要一雙穩定的手操作也是我為什麼選擇要自己在台上呈現給數百人看來吧!薄膜大部分是透明的再來...(掌聲)最驚人的是我的手真的能維持一定的穩定 當你認識了關於這物質的這些屬性你可以利用絲 作出許多東西不只是透明薄膜這物質可以長成許多型式然後可以瘋狂一點, 作出不同的光學零件或是作出 微菱鏡陣列像是在運動鞋上的反光條或作出美麗的東西希望攝影機能看到這你可以在薄膜上有三度空間的訊息當角度對時你可以看到一個全像顯示在這絲的薄膜上也能做出其他東西可以想像利用一個純蛋白質作光的傳導所以我們做出光纖 絲是多樣的 能不只是光學用途也能想出些不同的型式舉例說 怕上醫院打針我們可以做出微針陣列螢幕上顯示著一根人類頭髮對比的是 用絲作成的針頭給大家一個實際大小的感覺也能做大一點的東西可以做齒輪 螺絲 螺母以後可以在食品店買到齒輪也能於水中運作可以想成是另類的機構組件可以用液態Kevlar 做出較硬的材料以, 譬如, 取代周邊靜脈或取代整跟骨頭這裡有一些例子小骷顱頭我們稱它是迷你 Yorick (哈姆雷特中之人物)(笑聲)舉例 也能做成杯子或是加點金 加點半導體元件能做出貼在食物上的感應器可以做出能被撓曲的電子元件或是你走在流行尖端, 可以是LED刺青 就如大家所見的 你可以用絲在材料形式作出不同的多樣性但絲還是有些獨特的性質我的意思是 為什麼要做出這些東西呢?一開始我有簡單地說明過蛋白質是可分解的以及不被排斥的這裡是個人工器官的照片絲具有生物可分解性或生物相容性 到底是什麼意思呢?你可以將它植入體內又不必取出植入物也就是說 之前看到的各形式基本上都能被植入與取出那些器官部分可以利用反光貼布的特性像是被車燈照到反光所以當光線照射到器官就能因反光看到器官的更深部位因為反光貼布是用絲所做的就可以整合到器官上不只能應用到器官植入人體也能與環境保護結合因蛋白質的成分 所以有著內部分解時鐘一個絲作成的杯子就能安心的丟棄(掌聲)不像保利龍杯每天成為垃圾堆積它是可食的所以可設計成聰明的食物包裝也能與食物一起烹煮只是吃起來口感不佳我需要些這方面的協助 但最最神奇的事是它是天然循環的絲 在自行組合時生物行為上像是蠶繭所以如果改變配方時加點東西進去在液狀絲溶液加點東西進去通常就是酶抗生素 或是 疫苗自行組合時會保持這些摻雜物的生物功能所以可以做成環境活性的材料或是會對環境反應的材料所以剛剛看到的螺絲螺母可以真的用來將骨折的骨頭鎖在一起又能在骨頭痊癒期間比如, 同時釋放藥劑會是變成能攜帶於皮夾中, 而非存於冰箱中的藥品像這個絲作成的卡片有著盤尼西林的成分我們將盤尼西林存放在攝氏60度也就是華氏140度 的環境盤尼西林的藥效可維持整整兩個月就可以 ...(掌聲)就可以是背著太陽光電板以冷凍保存藥物的駱駝的另一種解決方案當然 最重要還是它應有的效果 所以這是它另一獨特的性質它們能被設計成 可程式的分解這裡顯現不同處上方是設計成不分解下方是設計成可水解看到的就是下方的薄膜會釋出內容所以我們能重新獲得當初儲存的物質所以就是一個可控制的藥物釋出能再與週遭相結合這些可以以上述的各種形式進行 所以我們發現的線索 也真的就是條線我們全力要做出你們能想出的東西是血管 或是骨頭或是具永續概念的微電子元件或是可安心丟棄的咖啡杯或是可放在皮夾的藥送入體內或是 帶著越過沙漠這一切就是在這條絲線上 謝謝! (掌聲)
