Talk	en	zh-tw
frans_lanting_photos_that_give_voice_to_the_animal_kingdom	Humanity takes center stage at TED, but I would like to add  a voice for the animals, whose bodies and minds  and spirits shaped us. Some years ago, it was my good fortune to meet a tribal elder on an island not far from Vancouver. His name is Jimmy Smith, and he shared a story with me that is told among his people, who call themselves the Kwikwasut'inuxw. Once upon a time, he told me, all animals on Earth were one. Even though they look different on the outside, inside, they're all the same, and from time to time they would gather at a sacred cave deep inside the forest to celebrate their unity. When they arrived, they would all take off their skins. Raven shed his feathers, bear his fur, and salmon her scales, and then, they would dance. But one day, a human made it to the cave and laughed at what he saw because he did not understand. Embarrassed, the animals fled, and that was the last time they revealed themselves this way. The ancient understanding that underneath their separate identities, all animals are one, has been a powerful inspiration to me. I like to get past the fur, the feathers and the scales. I want to get under the skin. No matter whether I'm facing a giant elephant or a tiny tree frog, my goal is to connect us with them, eye to eye. You may wonder, do I ever photograph people? Sure. People are always present in my photos, no matter whether they appear to portray tortoises or cougars or lions. You just have to learn how  to look past their disguise. As a photographer, I try to reach beyond the differences in our genetic makeup to appreciate all we have in common with every other living thing. When I use my camera, I drop my skin like the animals at that cave so I can show who they really are. As animals blessed with the power of rational thought, we can marvel at the intricacies of life. As citizens of a planet in trouble, it is our moral responsibility to deal with the dramatic loss in diversity of life. But as humans with hearts, we can all rejoice in the unity of life, and perhaps we can change what once happened in that sacred cave. Let's find a way to join the dance. Thank you. (Applause)	人類是 TED 舞台的中心，但我想加入一些動物的聲音，牠們的身體，思想和精神塑造了我們。 數年前，我很有幸在離溫哥華不遠的小島上見到一位部落長老。他名叫幾米·史密斯，他與我分享了一個在部落住民間廣為流傳的一個故事，這些住民自稱為 Kwikwasut'inuxw。 很久很久以前，他說，地球上所有的動物是一樣的。即使牠們有著不同的外表，內在確是相同的，牠們時常會相聚在森林深處一個神聖的洞穴慶祝牠們的同一性。當牠們到那裡的時候，牠們會脫去皮囊。烏鴉脫去羽毛，熊脫去皮毛，三文魚脫去鱗片，然後，牠們跳舞。但某一天，一個人類到達了這個洞穴對著眼前的一切大笑因為他無法理解這樣的行為。動物們感到很尷尬，紛紛離開，那是最後一次牠們如此這般展現自己。 古老的智慧，在動物們各異的外表下，所有的動物都是一樣的，這給我帶來了巨大的靈感。我想要穿透皮毛、羽毛和鱗片。我想要了解皮膚裡面的東西。無論我是面對一頭巨大的大象或是一隻小小的樹蛙，我的目標是連結我們和牠們，心有靈犀。 你可能會問，我拍攝人類嗎？當然。人類時常出現在我的攝影作品裏，無論是假扮烏龜，或是美洲豹，或是獅子。你只需要了解如何看穿偽裝。 作為一名攝影師，我試圖達到超越我們基因不同之下來領會我們與其他生物的相同之處。當我使用照相機，我脫去我的皮膚，就像那些洞穴里的動物一樣於是我能展現出牠們真實的模樣。 正如動物們被理性思考的力量庇護著，我們驚訝於生命的錯綜複雜。作為生活在遇到麻煩的星球上的人，我們有道德責任來處理生物多樣性急劇降低的問題。但作為有心有感情的人類，我們可以慶祝生命的連結，也許我們能改變那個神聖洞穴裡層發生的事。 讓我們加入動物們的舞蹈。 謝謝。 （鼓掌）
