Talk	en	zh-tw
frank_warren_half_a_million_secrets	"Hi, my name is Frank, and I collect secrets. It all started with a crazy idea in November of 2004. I printed up 3,000 self-addressed postcards, just like this. They were blank on one side, and on the other side I listed some simple instructions. I asked people to anonymously share an artful secret they'd never told anyone before. And I handed out these postcards randomly on the streets of Washington, D.C., not knowing what to expect. But soon the idea began spreading virally. People began to buy their own postcards and make their own postcards. I started receiving secrets in my home mailbox, not just with postmarks from Washington, D.C., but from Texas, California, Vancouver, New Zealand, Iraq. Soon my crazy idea didn't seem so crazy. PostSecret.com is the most visited advertisement-free blog in the world. And this is my postcard collection today. You can see my wife struggling to stack a brick of postcards on a pyramid of over a half-million secrets. What I'd like to do now is share with you a very special handful of secrets from that collection, starting with this one. ""I found these stamps as a child, and I have been waiting all my life to have someone to send them to. I never did have someone."" Secrets can take many forms. They can be shocking or silly or soulful. They can connect us to our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet. (Laughter) Maybe one of you sent this one in. I don't know. This one does a great job of demonstrating the creativity that people have when they make and mail me a postcard. This one obviously was made out of half a Starbucks cup with a stamp and my home address written on the other side. ""Dear Birthmother, I have great parents. I've found love. I'm happy."" Secrets can remind us of the countless human dramas, of frailty and heroism, playing out silently in the lives of people all around us even now. ""Everyone who knew me before 9/11 believes I'm dead."" ""I used to work with a bunch of uptight religious people, so sometimes I didn't wear panties, and just had a big smile and chuckled to myself."" (Laughter) This next one takes a little explanation before I share it with you. I love to speak on college campuses and share secrets and the stories with students. And sometimes afterwards I'll stick around and sign books and take photos with students. And this next postcard was made out of one of those photos. And I should also mention that, just like today, at that PostSecret event, I was using a wireless microphone. ""Your mic wasn't off during sound check. We all heard you pee."" (Laughter) This was really embarrassing when it happened, until I realized it could have been worse. Right. You know what I'm saying. (Laughter) ""Inside this envelope is the ripped up remains of a suicide note I didn't use. I feel like the happiest person on Earth (now.)"" ""One of these men is the father of my son. He pays me a lot to keep it a secret."" (Laughter) ""That Saturday when you wondered where I was, well, I was getting your ring. It's in my pocket right now."" I had this postcard posted on the PostSecret blog two years ago on Valentine's Day. It was the very bottom, the last secret in the long column. And it hadn't been up for more than a couple hours before I received this exuberant email from the guy who mailed me this postcard. And he said, ""Frank, I've got to share with you this story that just played out in my life."" He said, ""My knees are still shaking."" He said, ""For three years, my girlfriend and I, we've made it this Sunday morning ritual to visit the PostSecret blog together and read the secrets out loud. I read some to her, she reads some to me."" He says, ""It's really brought us closer together through the years. And so when I discovered that you had posted my surprise proposal to my girlfriend at the very bottom, I was beside myself. And I tried to act calm, not to give anything away. And just like every Sunday, we started reading the secrets out loud to each other."" He said, ""But this time it seemed like it was taking her forever to get through each one."" But she finally did. She got to that bottom secret, his proposal to her. And he said, ""She read it once and then she read it again."" And she turned to him and said, ""Is that our cat?"" (Laughter) And when she saw him, he was down on one knee, he had the ring out. He popped the question, she said yes. It was a very happy ending. So I emailed him back and I said, ""Please share with me an image, something, that I can share with the whole PostSecret community and let everyone know your fairy tale ending."" And he emailed me this picture. (Laughter) ""I found your camera at Lollapalooza this summer. I finally got the pictures developed and I'd love to give them to you."" This picture never got returned back to the people who lost it, but this secret has impacted many lives, starting with a student up in Canada named Matty. Matty was inspired by that secret to start his own website, a website called IFoundYourCamera. Matty invites people to mail him digital cameras that they've found, memory sticks that have been lost with orphan photos. And Matty takes the pictures off these cameras and posts them on his website every week. And people come to visit to see if they can identify a picture they've lost or help somebody else get the photos back to them that they might be desperately searching for. This one's my favorite. (Laughter) Matty has found this ingenious way to leverage the kindness of strangers. And it might seem like a simple idea, and it is, but the impact it can have on people's lives can be huge. Matty shared with me an emotional email he received from the mother in that picture. ""That's me, my husband and son. The other pictures are of my very ill grandmother. Thank you for making your site. These pictures mean more to me than you know. My son's birth is on this camera. He turns four tomorrow."" Every picture that you see there and thousands of others have been returned back to the person who lost it — sometimes crossing oceans, sometimes going through language barriers. This is the last postcard I have to share with you today. ""When people I love leave voicemails on my phone I always save them in case they die tomorrow and I have no other way of hearing their voice ever again."" When I posted this secret, dozens of people sent voicemail messages from their phones, sometimes ones they'd been keeping for years, messages from family or friends who had died. They said that by preserving those voices and sharing them, it helped them keep the spirit of their loved ones alive. One young girl posted the last message she ever heard from her grandmother. Secrets can take many forms. They can be shocking or silly or soulful. They can connect us with our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet again. Voicemail recording: First saved voice message. Grandma: ♫ It's somebody's birthday today ♫ ♫ Somebody's birthday today ♫ ♫ The candles are lighted ♫ ♫ on somebody's cake ♫ ♫ And we're all invited ♫ ♫ for somebody's sake ♫ You're 21 years old today. Have a real happy birthday, and I love you. I'll say bye for now. FW: Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) June Cohen: Frank, that was beautiful, so touching. Have you ever sent yourself a postcard? Have you ever sent in a secret to PostSecret? FW: I have one of my own secrets in every book. I think in some ways, the reason I started the project, even though I didn't know it at the time, was because I was struggling with my own secrets. And it was through crowd-sourcing, it was through the kindness that strangers were showing me, that I could uncover parts of my past that were haunting me. JC: And has anyone ever discovered which secret was yours in the book? Has anyone in your life been able to tell? FW: Sometimes I share that information, yeah. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"嗨，我叫 Frank，我收集秘密。這起因於一個瘋狂的主意在2004年11月我印了3000張附回郵的明信片 ，就像這個樣子 ，一面是空白的 ，另外一面我列了一些簡單的提示我请大家匿名分享一個構思精巧的秘密而且是之前從未告訴過別人的我隨意把這些明信片分給別人就在華盛頓特區的大街上也沒有想太多 但是很快地這個主意開始像病毒般蔓延開來人們開始去買他們自己的明信片而且做自己的明信片我開始在自家的信箱裏收到秘密不只蓋有來自華盛頓特區的郵戳也有來自德州 、加州溫哥華 、 紐西蘭 、伊拉克的很快地 ，我那瘋狂的注意變得似乎不那麼瘋狂了PostSecret.com是人們最常訪問的無廣告部落格而這些是我至今收集的明信片你們可以看到我的太太吃力地用明信片磚塊堆出超過50萬秘密的金字塔 我現在想做的就是和大家分享一些很特別的秘密這些秘密來自於我們的收集先從這封開始當我還是個孩子的時候，我找到了這些郵票我一生都在等待能把這些郵票送給某人但是我從未送出秘密可以有各種不同的形式可能令人震驚或很傻或者充滿感情它們可以連接到靈魂深處的人性或是素未謀面的人(觀眾大笑)這個可能是你們其中之一寄來的我不知道這封信做了一個很棒的示範那就是人的創意當他們做好了而且寄給我一張明信片這張明信片很明顯是用半個星巴克杯做的上面貼了郵票，而且另一面寫著我家的地址 。 “親愛的生母 ，我有一對很棒的養父母我找到愛了 ，我很快樂。“秘密會使我們想起數不清的關于人性的弱點和英雄主義的人類悲喜劇他們無聲地展開出現在我們周圍人們的生活裏直到現在“任何在911前認識我的人相信我死了。”“我曾經和一羣拘束又傳統的宗教人士共事，所以有時候我不穿內褲而且只能對著自己暗自發笑。” (觀眾大笑) 在和你們分享下一個秘密之前，请容我做個小小的解釋我喜歡在大學校園內演講和學生分享秘密和故事有時我會到處走走為同學簽書 和他們一起拍照下一張明信片取材於下面這些照片中的其中一張我還要插一句，就像今天一樣那還是在PostSecret發生的事我當時正在使用無線麥克風“你的麥克風在試音時沒關我們都聽到了你撒尿的聲音了。”(觀眾大笑)當時我真得很尷尬後來我又意識到那也許會變得更糟對。你知道我在說什麼 (觀眾大笑) “在信封裏是我一直沒有用到的被撕碎的遺書。(現在)我覺得我是世上最快樂的人了。 ””這些人中的某一位是我兒子的父親。他可是給了我很多的封口費啊。“ (觀眾大笑) ”那個星期六 當你在猜着我到底在哪兒的時候，嗯，我在拿你的戒指。現在它在我的口袋裏。“我把這張明信片張貼在PostSecret部落格那是在兩年前的情人節它被貼得很低，算是長長一欄的最後一個秘密了没過幾個小時的時間我就收到了一封令人欣喜的信寄信人正是那個給我寄來這張明信片的人 他說，“Frank, 我一定要和你分享發生在我真實生活中的這個故事。”他說：“我的膝蓋還在抖得不停。”他說：“三年了 ，我和我的女朋友養成了在每個這樣的週日早晨一起看PostSecret部落格而且大聲唸出這些秘密的習慣。我們互相讀給對方聽。”他說 ：""這樣做真的讓我們在這些年變得越來越親密。 所以當我發現你在最底層張貼了我給女朋友的求婚大驚喜，我簡直樂翻天了。我試著冷靜下來，防止自己讓這到手的幸福溜掉。就像每一個星期天，我們開始大聲唸秘密給對方聽。”他說：“但這次她似乎花了很長的時間去唸完每一個祕密。“但最後她還是唸完了。她知道了最底層的秘密，她男友的求婚她男友說 ：”她唸過一遍又一遍然後她轉身對她男友說：“這是我們的貓嗎?”(觀眾大笑)當她看到自己的男友的時候他正單膝下跪 ，拿出戒指他向她求婚，而她也同意了。這是個非常快樂的結局 所以我回了一封信給他我說，“請和我分享一個類似照片的我可以和整個PostSecret社群分享的東西吧讓每個人都知道你的童話故事的結局。”然後他就把這張照片用電子郵件寄給了我。 (觀眾大笑) “今年夏天我在洛拉帕羅扎(美國芝加哥地名)發現了你的相機最後我把相片洗了出來我想把他們還給你。”但是這張照片從未回到遺失者的手上，但是這個秘密影響了許多人讓我們從一個加拿大的學生說起他叫做MattyMatty被那個秘密所啟發開始架設他自己的網站，一個叫做IFoundYourCamera的網站，Matty請大家把他們找到的數碼相機寄給他這些相機裏已經沒有了記憶棒但是有一些大家都不要的照片Matty把這些照片從相機裏取出每週把照片貼上他的網站人們前來瀏覽看看是否可以認出他們自己遺失的照片或者是幫助他人找回照片他們可能拼了命地找這是我的最愛 (觀眾大笑) Matty找到了這個巧妙的方法來激發陌生人的仁慈看起來是個簡單的主意，而且的確是但是它卻極大地影響了人們的生活Matty和我分享了他收到的一封滿懷感激的郵件是照片中的母親寄來的“那是我，我先生和我兒子。其他照片裏的人是我生重病的祖母謝謝你創建了這個網站這些照片對我的意義重大超乎你的想像這個相機見證了我兒子的出生他明天就四歲了。”你看到的每張照片還有其它數千張照片已經回到失主那兒它們有時會跨過海洋有時會穿過語言障礙 這是我今天和大家分享的最後一張明信片每當我愛的人在我的電話裏留言我都會把它們一一保留 以防他們明天會永遠離開這個世界這樣我就再也不能再一次聽到他們的聲音了當我公開這個秘密的時候很多的人用他們的電話給我發了語音信息其中的一些是他們保留了數年之久的這些信息來自他們已經死去的親人或朋友他們說藉由保存這些聲音而且將其分享的方式它們可以讓自己愛的人永存一個年輕的女孩貼上最後的消息她聽到她的祖母 秘密有多種形態可能很驚人或愚蠢或深情他們可以與我們最深的人性連繫或和我們從未再連絡的人 語言留言：第一則留言祖母：♫今天是某人的生日♫♫ 今天是某人的生日 ♫♫點上蠟燭♫♫ 在某人的蛋糕上♫♫我們都被邀請了♫♫ 為了某人的緣故♫你今天21歲了有一個真正的生日，我愛你我暫時跟你說再見了 FW:謝謝你 觀眾鼓掌 謝謝你 鼓掌 June Cohen: Frank，那很美很感人你有沒有送給自己一張明信片?我你有沒有把自己的秘密貼在PostSecret網站？ FW:在每本書上有一個我自己的秘密我想在某些方面，我開始這計劃的原因即使那時我不知道是因為我正與我自己的秘密奮鬥是經由人群模式是經由陌生人給我的善良我才能透露部份是因為困擾我的過去 JC: 有沒有任何人發現?書上哪一個是你的秘密?你生命中有沒有人可以傾訴? FW: 有時我分享那個資訊，耶 (大笑) (鼓掌)"
