Talk	en	zh-tw
frances_larson_why_public_beheadings_get_millions_of_views	"For the last year, everyone's been watching the same show, and I'm not talking about ""Game of Thrones,"" but a horrifying, real-life drama that's proved too fascinating to turn off. It's a show produced by murderers and shared around the world via the Internet. Their names have become familiar: James Foley, Steven Sotloff, David Haines, Alan Henning, Peter Kassig, Haruna Yukawa, Kenji Goto Jogo. Their beheadings by the Islamic State were barbaric, but if we think they were archaic, from a remote, obscure age, then we're wrong. They were uniquely modern, because the murderers acted knowing well that millions of people would tune in to watch. The headlines called them savages and barbarians, because the image of one man overpowering another, killing him with a knife to the throat, conforms to our idea of ancient, primitive practices, the polar opposite of our urban, civilized ways. We don't do things like that. But that's the irony. We think a beheading has nothing to do with us, even as we click on the screen to watch. But it is to do with us. The Islamic State beheadings are not ancient or remote. They're a global, 21st century event, a 21st century event that takes place in our living rooms, at our desks, on our computer screens. They're entirely dependent on the power of technology to connect us. And whether we like it or not, everyone who watches is a part of the show. And lots of people watch. We don't know exactly how many. Obviously, it's difficult to calculate. But a poll taken in the UK, for example, in August 2014, estimated that 1.2 million people had watched the beheading of James Foley in the few days after it was released. And that's just the first few days, and just Britain. A similar poll taken in the United States in November 2014 found that nine percent of those surveyed had watched beheading videos, and a further 23 percent had watched the videos but had stopped just before the death was shown. Nine percent may be a small minority of all the people who could watch, but it's still a very large crowd. And of course that crowd is growing all the time, because every week, every month, more people will keep downloading and keep watching. If we go back 11 years, before sites like YouTube and Facebook were born, it was a similar story. When innocent civilians like Daniel Pearl, Nick Berg, Paul Johnson, were beheaded, those videos were shown during the Iraq War. Nick Berg's beheading quickly became one of the most searched for items on the Internet. Within a day, it was the top search term across search engines like Google, Lycos, Yahoo. In the week after Nick Berg's beheading, these were the top 10 search terms in the United States. The Berg beheading video remained the most popular search term for a week, and it was the second most popular search term for the whole month of May, runner-up only to ""American Idol."" The al-Qaeda-linked website that first showed Nick Berg's beheading had to close down within a couple of days due to overwhelming traffic to the site. One Dutch website owner said that his daily viewing figures rose from 300,000 to 750,000 every time a beheading in Iraq was shown. He told reporters 18 months later that it had been downloaded many millions of times, and that's just one website. A similar pattern was seen again and again when videos of beheadings were released during the Iraq War. Social media sites have made these images more accessible than ever before, but if we take another step back in history, we'll see that it was the camera that first created a new kind of crowd in our history of beheadings as public spectacle. As soon as the camera appeared on the scene, a full lifetime ago on June 17, 1939, it had an immediate and unequivocal effect. That day, the first film of a public beheading was created in France. It was the execution, the guillotining, of a German serial killer, Eugen Weidmann, outside the prison Saint-Pierre in Versailles. Weidmann was due to be executed at the crack of dawn, as was customary at the time, but his executioner was new to the job, and he'd underestimated how long it would take him to prepare. So Weidmann was executed at 4:30 in the morning, by which time on a June morning, there was enough light to take photographs, and a spectator in the crowd filmed the event, unbeknownst to the authorities. Several still photographs were taken as well, and you can still watch the film online today and look at the photographs. The crowd on the day of Weidmann's execution was called ""unruly"" and ""disgusting"" by the press, but that was nothing compared to the untold thousands of people who could now study the action over and over again, freeze-framed in every detail. The camera may have made these scenes more accessible than ever before, but it's not just about the camera. If we take a bigger leap back in history, we'll see that for as long as there have been public judicial executions and beheadings, there have been the crowds to see them. In London, as late as the early 19th century, there might be four or five thousand people to see a standard hanging. There could be 40,000 or 50,000 to see a famous criminal killed. And a beheading, which was a rare event in England at the time, attracted even more. In May 1820, five men known as the Cato Street Conspirators were executed in London for plotting to assassinate members of the British government. They were hung and then decapitated. It was a gruesome scene. Each man's head was hacked off in turn and held up to the crowd. And 100,000 people, that's 10,000 more than can fit into Wembley Stadium, had turned out to watch. The streets were packed. People had rented out windows and rooftops. People had climbed onto carts and wagons in the street. People climbed lamp posts. People had been known to have died in the crush on popular execution days. Evidence suggests that throughout our history of public beheadings and public executions, the vast majority of the people who come to see are either enthusiastic or, at best, unmoved. Disgust has been comparatively rare, and even when people are disgusted and are horrified, it doesn't always stop them from coming out all the same to watch. Perhaps the most striking example of the human ability to watch a beheading and remain unmoved and even be disappointed was the introduction in France in 1792 of the guillotine, that famous decapitation machine. To us in the 21st century, the guillotine may seem like a monstrous contraption, but to the first crowds who saw it, it was actually a disappointment. They were used to seeing long, drawn-out, torturous executions on the scaffold, where people were mutilated and burned and pulled apart slowly. To them, watching the guillotine in action, it was so quick, there was nothing to see. The blade fell, the head fell into a basket, out of sight immediately, and they called out, ""Give me back my gallows, give me back my wooden gallows."" The end of torturous public judicial executions in Europe and America was partly to do with being more humane towards the criminal, but it was also partly because the crowd obstinately refused to behave in the way that they should. All too often, execution day was more like a carnival than a solemn ceremony. Today, a public judicial execution in Europe or America is unthinkable, but there are other scenarios that should make us cautious about thinking that things are different now and we don't behave like that anymore. Take, for example, the incidents of suicide baiting. This is when a crowd gathers to watch a person who has climbed to the top of a public building in order to kill themselves, and people in the crowd shout and jeer, ""Get on with it! Go on and jump!"" This is a well-recognized phenomenon. One paper in 1981 found that in 10 out of 21 threatened suicide attempts, there was incidents of suicide baiting and jeering from a crowd. And there have been incidents reported in the press this year. This was a very widely reported incident in Telford and Shropshire in March this year. And when it happens today, people take photographs and they take videos on their phones and they post those videos online. When it comes to brutal murderers who post their beheading videos, the Internet has created a new kind of crowd. Today, the action takes place in a distant time and place, which gives the viewer a sense of detachment from what's happening, a sense of separation. It's nothing to do with me. It's already happened. We are also offered an unprecedented sense of intimacy. Today, we are all offered front row seats. We can all watch in private, in our own time and space, and no one need ever know that we've clicked on the screen to watch. This sense of separation — from other people, from the event itself — seems to be key to understanding our ability to watch, and there are several ways in which the Internet creates a sense of detachment that seems to erode individual moral responsibility. Our activities online are often contrasted with real life, as though the things we do online are somehow less real. We feel less accountable for our actions when we interact online. There's a sense of anonymity, a sense of invisibility, so we feel less accountable for our behavior. The Internet also makes it far easier to stumble upon things inadvertently, things that we would usually avoid in everyday life. Today, a video can start playing before you even know what you're watching. Or you may be tempted to look at material that you wouldn't look at in everyday life or you wouldn't look at if you were with other people at the time. And when the action is pre-recorded and takes place in a distant time and space, watching seems like a passive activity. There's nothing I can do about it now. It's already happened. All these things make it easier as an Internet user for us to give in to our sense of curiosity about death, to push our personal boundaries, to test our sense of shock, to explore our sense of shock. But we're not passive when we watch. On the contrary, we're fulfilling the murderer's desire to be seen. When the victim of a decapitation is bound and defenseless, he or she essentially becomes a pawn in their killer's show. Unlike a trophy head that's taken in battle, that represents the luck and skill it takes to win a fight, when a beheading is staged, when it's essentially a piece of theater, the power comes from the reception the killer receives as he performs. In other words, watching is very much part of the event. The event no longer takes place in a single location at a certain point in time as it used to and as it may still appear to. Now the event is stretched out in time and place, and everyone who watches plays their part. We should stop watching, but we know we won't. History tells us we won't, and the killers know it too. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you. Let me get this back. Thank you. Let's move here. While they install for the next performance, I want to ask you the question that probably many here have, which is how did you get interested in this topic? Frances Larson: I used to work at a museum called the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford, which was famous for its display of shrunken heads from South America. People used to say, ""Oh, the shrunken head museum, the shrunken head museum!"" And at the time, I was working on the history of scientific collections of skulls. I was working on the cranial collections, and it just struck me as ironic that here were people coming to see this gory, primitive, savage culture that they were almost fantasizing about and creating without really understanding what they were seeing, and all the while these vast — I mean hundreds of thousands of skulls in our museums, all across Europe and the States — were kind of upholding this Enlightenment pursuit of scientific rationality. So I wanted to kind of twist it round and say, ""Let's look at us."" We're looking through the glass case at these shrunken heads. Let's look at our own history and our own cultural fascination with these things. BG: Thank you for sharing that. FL: Thank you. (Applause)"	"去年，每個人都看過這個節目。我不是在說 《冰與火之歌》而是一個恐怖的真人秀。人們捨不得關掉這個節目，因為它太吸引人。這個節目是由殺人犯製作，並且透過網路散播到世界。他們的名字變得很熟悉： James Foley, Steven Sotloff,David Haines, Alan Henning, Peter KassigHaruna Yukawa, Kenji Goto Jogo他們被伊斯蘭國 非常殘暴的斬首。但如果我們認為他們非常遠古，來自一個很遠且不為人知的時代，那麼我們就錯了。他們是僅屬於現代世界的產物，因為殺人兇手清楚知道他們的行為會被幾百萬人收聽、收看。各大新聞頭條稱他們為野蠻人 因為一個男人用刀刺穿另一人喉嚨的畫面，符合我們對原始人行為的看法。和我們這些都市文明人的行為非常的不同。我們不做這樣的事。但那很諷刺我們認為斬首與我們無關甚至當我們打開銀幕收看節目時也這樣認為但是這真的跟我們有關伊斯蘭國的斬首行為並不是古老或是遙遠的他是21世紀的全球事件一個發生在我們客廳、桌上還有電腦螢幕上的21世紀事件他們完全仰賴科技的力量與我們聯繫而不論我們是否喜歡每一個看到的人都是這場秀的一部份而很多人看了 我們不知道確切到底有多少人顯然，這很難計算但是英國做的民意調查顯示如在2014年八月估計出約120萬人在影片播出的幾天內觀看了James Foley的斬首影片才一開始的短短幾天甚至只侷限在英國 就有驚人的人數2014年11月美國實施了一個類似的民調他們發現約9%的受訪者已經看過斬首的影片而且23%已經看過的人在James死亡以前就停止觀看9%的人可能是少數能夠看完的人但這仍然是很多的人數當然那群人的人數總是在增加因為每個星期 每個月越來越多人會持續下載並觀看如果我們回到11年前 回到像Youtube還有Facebook這些網站出現以前這是一個類似的故事當無辜的百姓像Daniel Pearl,Nick Berg, Paul Johnson 被斬首的時候那些影片在伊拉克戰爭的時候被放在網路上Nick Berg 斬首 馬上成為網路搜尋的熱門項目一天以內, 他就成為各大搜尋引擎的排行榜第一名包括Google, Lycos, Yahoo在Nick Berg被斬首的一周後這些仍然是美國熱門搜尋的前10名Berg的斬首影片為持續一週最熱門的關鍵字而整個五月它都是第二熱門的關鍵字只有《美國偶像》這個節目超越它蓋達組織掛鉤的網站首先出現Nick Berg的斬首影片而由於大量瀏覽人數,它在幾天內不得已關站一個荷蘭的網站所有人說,每當伊拉克地區的斬首影片一播出他的每日瀏覽人次就由30萬攀升至75萬他告訴記者, 18個月以後這支影片已經被下載超過百萬次而且只計算一個網站上的下載次數類似的模式不斷的出現當斬首的影片在伊拉克戰爭中被釋出社群網站已經使得這些影像比以前更容易取得 但是如果我們在歷史中採取另外一步我們將會看到是相機,創造了第一個斬首的歷史鏡頭而這也會是一項公共奇景當相機一出現在現場1939年6月17的情況就會完整被呈現它具有立即且明確的效果那天, 第一部公開的斬首影片在法國拍攝 這是在凡爾賽聖皮埃爾監獄外執行德國連環殺手,Eugen Weidmann死刑的景象Weidmann應該要在破曉時分被處決因為這是處決的習慣性時間但是他的行刑者是新人他低估了準備的時間所以Weidmann在早上4:30才被處決那是六月的早上所以有足夠的光線可以拍照而一位人群中的觀眾拍下這個事件但當局並不知道另外好幾張照片也在當時被拍攝而你到今天也仍然可以在網路上觀賞那些影片還有看那些照片在Weidmann被處決那天的圍觀群眾被媒體稱為""不受控制""還有""令人作噁""但是那跟現在可以重複一次又一次的觀看影片,並定格看每一個細節的人數相比根本不算什麼相機使得這些場景,比以前更加容易取得, 但這不僅僅關乎相機如果我們跨一大步回到歷史之中,我們將會看到,只要有過公開處決或斬首,就會有群眾看到他們,在倫敦, 最晚至19世紀初期,可能已經有4千或5千人,看到一個標準的絞刑,可能有4千或5千人,看到一個有名的犯人被殺,而在當時英國並不常見的斬首,更是吸引更多人圍觀在1820年5月, 5個被稱為Cato Street conspirator的男人在倫敦被處決因為他們計劃刺殺英國政府的成員他們被吊死然後斬首這是可怕的一幕每個男人的頭都分別被砍掉,並向眾人展示而超出Wembley體育館可以負荷量的10萬名民眾,都到現場觀看街上擠滿了人人們將窗戶還有屋頂出租給他人觀看人們甚至爬上在街上的車以及貨車人們爬上路燈杆有很多人,在那些熱門的處決當天被踩死證據顯示, 在我們公眾處決及斬首的歷史當中,大多數對前來觀看的人,不是很熱衷,就是對此不為所動對此反感的人相對少即使人們對這些事感到噁心以及害怕,也無法阻止他們出門觀看或許人們看完斬首, 卻不為所動，甚至感到失望，這異於尋常的現象發生是在1792年法國引進這引人注目的斬首機器—-斷頭台之後對我們這些活在21世紀的人來說斷頭台可能看似是一個過時且怪物般的機器但是對第一群看到他的群眾來說,這真的非常令人失望他們已經習慣看在行刑台上漫長且折磨人的處決在行刑台上,犯人被肢解、燒燬、緩慢地被拉開對他們來說,斷頭台的速度太快, 根本沒什麼東西可以看刀掉下來, 頭掉進一個籃子裡,之後立即消失在人們視線中,然後人們開始要求,""還我絞刑台, 還我木質絞刑台""歐洲及美國痛苦的公眾處決的結束 是為了對犯人更加人道但同時也是因為人們堅決拒絕做他們應做的事情處決日經常更像一個嘉年華會而非嚴肅的儀式在今天的歐洲以及美國,公眾執法是無法想像的 但是, 仍有其他可能發生的情況,我們應該謹慎思考因為事情跟以前不一樣,而我們也不像以前那樣表現了舉自殺誘導為例, 這就是,當人群為了觀看一個人爬到公共建築物頂並企圖自殺而聚集時”等什麼! 跳下來!“群眾會這麼嘲笑著大喊這是一個非常常見的現象一篇1981年的報告發現,21人中有10人揚言自殺時人群中會出現自殺誘導以及嘲諷的情況而今年報紙上刊登了一個事件這是一個今年3月發生在Telford和Shropshire,被廣為報導的事件而今天當它發生的時候 人們透過他們的手機拍照、錄影並上傳那些影片到網路上而當我們提及那些將斬首影片發佈到網路上,殘忍的殺人犯網路上就產生了一群新的群眾今天, 那些行為因為發生在離我們很遠的時間和地方所以觀眾對於正在發生的事,有一種超脫感、分離感那些事與我們無關它已經發生了那些影片提供我們這些事與我們史無前例的密切感今天, 那些影片提供我們近距離觀看斬首事件的機會我們可以不受侵擾的,在我們想要的時間地點看這影片沒有人需要知道我們已經按下按鍵並看了影片這與其他人、這個事件 之間的脫離感看似成為了解我們俱有能夠觀看那些影片能力的鑰匙網路透過很多管道創造了脫離感而這似乎已經腐蝕了個人的道德責任我們的線上活動往往對比出真實世界儘管我們在網路上做的事不那麼真實當我們在網路上互動的時候,我們似乎可以對我們的行為負少一點的責任因為在網路上的一切都是匿名且看不見的所以我們對我們在網路上的行為總是覺得不需負責網路也使得我們更輕易且不經意的發現東西而這些東西往往是我們日常生活中想避免的現在一部影片可以在你知道內容前就自動開始播放或許,你也可能被誘惑而觀看那些你平常不會看的資料或是有其他人跟你在一起時你不會看的東西而當那些行為是事先被錄製且發生在距離我們很遠的時間及地點時而看影片好像是被動的行為現在沒有任何我可以做的事因為它已經發生了當一個網路使用者讓這些事情都變簡單了 因為它讓我們滿足對死亡的好奇心將我們推上個人的邊界以測試並探索我們的震撼感但是當我們看影片時其實一點也不被動 相反的, 我們充滿了那種像殺人犯一樣被看見的渴望當受害者註定被斬首而無法反抗或自我防衛他本質上就成了殺人犯這場表演中的棋子不像在戰役中的戰利品象徵著藉由幸運及技巧才獲得的勝利當斬首正在上演當這本質上是在戲院上映的一個作品那股力量,來自殺人犯表演時所獲得的能量換句話來說,觀看其實占這事件中非常大部分這個事件不久後將不像以前一樣只出現在一個特定的時間地點現在, 這些事件已經向外延伸而每個觀看的人就是在飾演自己負責的部分我們應該停止觀看 但我們知道我們不會歷史告訴我們, 我們不會而殺人犯也知道謝謝 (掌聲) 謝謝你讓我把這個拿回來,謝謝 我們來這裡在他們準備下一場的時候我想問你個問題可能這裡很多人也想問為什麼和如何你會對這件事感興趣？我以前, 在牛津的Pitt Rivers博物館工作它以展示南美洲皺縮的頭顱聞名人們總是說""噢！那個皺縮頭顱的博物館！""從那時候開始我開始研究科學家搜集頭骨的歷史我開始研究頭蓋骨的搜集但人們來這裡,看這段殘暴,原始且野蠻的文化時幾乎只透過幻想和自我創造而非仔細了解他們正在看的這讓我覺得很諷刺而所有這些很多的,我的意思是在我們博物館中橫越歐美成千成百的頭骨有點像是維護著我們對理性科學和啓蒙思想的追逐所以, 我想要換個面向然後說我們來看看我們自己我們正透過玻璃櫥窗看這些皺縮頭骨讓我們藉由這些事情, 一窺我們的歷史以及文化的迷人之處謝謝您的分享謝謝 (掌聲)"
