Talk	en	zh-tw
francesco_sauro_deep_under_the_earth_s_surface_discovering_beauty_and_science	"I would like to invite you to come along on a visit to a dark continent. It is the continent hidden under the surface of the earth. It is largely unexplored, poorly understood, and the stuff of legends. But it is made also of dramatic landscapes like this huge underground chamber, and it is rich with surprising biological and mineralogical worlds. Thanks to the efforts of intrepid voyagers in the last three centuries — actually, we know also thanks to satellite technology, of course — we know almost every single square meter of our planet's surface. However, we know still very little about what is hidden inside the earth. Because a cave landscape, like this deep shaft in Italy, is hidden, the potential of cave exploration — the geographical dimension — is poorly understood and unappreciated. Because we are creatures living on the surface, our perception of the inner side of the planet is in some ways skewed, as is that of the depth of the oceans or of the upper atmosphere. However, since systematic cave exploration started about one century ago, we know actually that caves exist in every continent of the world. A single cave system, like Mammoth Cave, which is in Kentucky, can be as long as more than 600 kilometers. And an abyss like Krubera Voronya, which is in the Caucasus region, actually the deepest cave explored in the world, can go as far as more than 2,000 meters below the surface. That means a journey of weeks for a cave explorer. Caves form in karstic regions. So karstic regions are areas of the world where the infiltrating water along cracks, fractures, can easily dissolve soluble lithologies, forming a drainage system of tunnels, conduits — a three-dimensional network, actually. Karstic regions cover almost 20 percent of the continents' surface, and we know actually that speleologists in the last 50 years have explored roughly 30,000 kilometers of cave passages around the world, which is a big number. But geologists have estimated that what is still missing, to be discovered and mapped, is something around 10 million kilometers. That means that for each meter of a cave that we already know, that we have explored, there are still some tens of kilometers of undiscovered passages. That means that this is really an endless continent, and we will never be able to explore it completely. And this estimation is made without considering other types of caves, like, for example, inside glaciers or even volcanic caves, which are not karstic, but are formed by lava flows. And if we have a look at other planets like, for example, Mars, you will see that this characteristic is not so specific of our home planet. However, I will show to you now that we do not need to go to Mars to explore alien worlds. I'm a speleologist, that means a cave explorer. And I started with this passion when I was really young in the mountains not far from my hometown in North Italy, in the karstic regions of the Alps and the Dolomites. But soon, the quest for exploration brought me to the farthest corner of the planet, searching for new potential entrances of this undiscovered continent. And in 2009, I had the opportunity to visit the tepui table mountains, which are in the Orinoco and Amazon basins. These massifs enchanted me from the first time I saw them. They are surrounded by vertical, vertiginous rock walls with silvery waterfalls that are lost in the forest. They really inspired in me a sense of wilderness, with a soul older than millions and millions of years. And this dramatic landscape inspired among other things also Conan Doyle's ""The Lost World"" novel in 1912. And they are, really, a lost world. Scientists consider those mountains as islands in time, being separated from the surrounding lowlands since tens of millions of years ago. They are surrounded by up to 1,000-meter-high walls, resembling a fortress, impregnable by humans. And, in fact, only a few of these mountains have been climbed and explored on their top. These mountains contain also a scientific paradox: They are made by quartz, which is a very common mineral on the earth's crust, and the rock made up by quartz is called quartzite, and quartzite is one of the hardest and least soluble minerals on earth. So we do not expect at all to find a cave there. Despite this, in the last 10 years, speleologists from Italy, Slovakia, Czech Republic, and, of course, Venezuela and Brazil, have explored several caves in this area. So how can it be possible? To understand this contradiction, we have to consider the time factor, because the history of the tepuis is extremely long, starting about 1.6 billion years ago with the formation of the rock, and then evolving with the uplift of the region 150 million years ago, after the disruption of the Pangaea supercontinent and the opening of the Atlantic Ocean. So you can imagine that the water had tens or even hundreds of millions of years to sculpt the strangest forms on the tepuis' surfaces, but also to open the fractures and form stone cities, rock cities, fields of towers which are characterized in the famous landscape of the tepuis. But nobody could have imagined what was happening inside a mountain in so long a time frame. And so I was focusing in 2010 on one of those massifs, the Auyán-tepui, which is very famous because it hosts Angel Falls, which is the highest waterfall in the world — about 979 meters of vertical drop. And I was searching for hints of the existence of cave systems through satellite images, and finally we identified an area of collapses of the surface — so, big boulders, rock piles — and that means that there was a void below. It was a clear indication that there was something inside the mountain. So we did several attempts to reach this area, by land and with a helicopter, but it was really difficult because — you have to imagine that these mountains are covered by clouds most of the year, by fog. There are strong winds, and there are almost 4,000 millimeters of rainfall per year, so it's really, really difficult to find good conditions. And only in 2013 we finally landed on the spot and we started the exploration of the cave. The cave is huge. It's a huge network under the surface of the tepui plateau, and in only ten days of expedition, we explored more than 20 kilometers of cave passages. And it's a huge network of underground rivers, channels, big rooms, extremely deep shafts. So it's really an incredible place. And we named it Imawarì Yeuta. That means, in the Pemón indigenous language, ""The House of the Gods."" You have to imagine that indigenous people have never been there. It was impossible for them to reach this area. However, there were legends about the existence of a cave in the mountain. So when we started the exploration, we had to explore with a great respect, both because of the religious beliefs of the indigenous people, but also because it was really a sacred place, because no human had entered there before. So we had to use special protocols to not contaminate the environment with our presence, and we tried also to share with the community, with the indigenous community, our discoveries. And the caves represent, really, a snapshot of the past. The time needed for their formation could be as long as 50 or even 100 million years, which makes them possibly the oldest caves that we can explore on earth. What you can find there is really evidence of a lost world. When you enter a quartzite cave, you have to completely forget what you know about caves — classic limestone caves or the touristic caves that you can visit in several places in the world. Because what seems a simple stalactite here is not made by calcium carbonate, but is made by opal, and one of those stalactites can require tens of millions of years to be formed. But you can find even stranger forms, like these mushrooms of silica growing on a boulder. And you can imagine our talks when we were exploring the cave. We were the first entering and discovering those unknown things, things like those monster eggs. And we were a bit scared because it was all a discovery, and we didn't want to find a dinosaur. We didn't find a dinosaur. (Laughter) Anyway, actually, we know that this kind of formation, after several studies, we know that these kinds of formations are living organisms. They are bacterial colonies using silica to build mineral structures resembling stromatolites. Stromatolites are some of the oldest forms of life that we can find on earth. And here in the tepuis, the interesting thing is that these bacteria colonies have evolved in complete isolation from the external surface, and without being in contact with humans. They have never been in contact with humans. So the implications for science are enormous, because here you could find, for example, microbes that could be useful to resolve diseases in medicine, or you could find even a new kind of material with unknown properties. And, in fact, we discovered in the cave a new mineral structure for science, which is rossiantonite, a phosphate-sulfate. So whatever you find in the cave, even a small cricket, has evolved in the dark in complete isolation. And, really, everything that you can feel in the cave are real connections between the biological and the mineralogical world. So as we explore this dark continent and discover its mineralogical and biological diversity and uniqueness, we will find probably clues about the origin of life on our planet and on the relationship and evolution of life in relationship with the mineral world. What seems only a dark, empty environment could be in reality a chest of wonders full of useful information. With a team of Italian, Venezuelan and Brazilian speleologists, which is called La Venta Teraphosa, we will be back soon to Latin America, because we want to explore other tepuis in the farthest areas of the Amazon. There are still very unknown mountains, like Marahuaca, which is almost 3,000 meters high above sea level, or Aracà, which is in the upper region of Rio Negro in Brazil. And we suppose that we could find there even bigger cave systems, and each one with its own undiscovered world. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Francesco. Give me that to start so we don't forget. Francesco, you said we don't need to go to Mars to find alien life, and indeed, last time we spoke, you were in Sardinia and you were training European astronauts. So what do you, a speleologist, tell and teach to the astronauts? Francesco Sauro: Yeah, we are — it's a program of training for not only European, but also NASA, Roskosmos, JAXA astronauts, in a cave. So they stay in a cave for about one week in isolation. They have to work together in a real, real dangerous environment, and it's a real alien environment for them because it's unusual. It's always dark. They have to do science. They have a lot of tasks. And it's very similar to a journey to Mars or the International Space Station. BG: In principle. FS: Yes. BG: I want to go back to one of the pictures that was in your slide show, and it's just representative of the other photos — Weren't those photos amazing? Yeah? Audience: Yeah! (Applause) FS: I have to thank the photographers from the team La Venta, because all of those photos are from the photographers. BG: You bring, actually, photographers with you in the expedition. They're professionals, they're speleologists and photographers. But when I look at these pictures, I wonder: there is zero light down there, and yet they look incredibly well-exposed. How do you take these pictures? How do your colleagues, the photographers, take these pictures? FS: Yeah. They are working in a darkroom, basically, so you can open the shutter of the camera and use the lights to paint the environment. BG: So you're basically — FS: Yes. You can even keep the shutter open for one minute and then paint the environment. The final result is what you want to achieve. BG: You spray the environment with light and that's what you get. Maybe we can try this at home someday, I don't know. (Laughter) BG: Francesco, grazie. FS: Grazie. (Applause)"	"我想要邀請你們一起去參觀一個黑暗的大陸。它是一個隱藏在地表之下的大陸。它還未被探索、未被理解， 充斥著許多傳說。但它有壯觀的地形，例如這個巨大的地下洞穴，和豐富神奇的生物、礦物世界。 感謝無畏的航行者在過去三個世紀的努力，當然，也要感謝衛星技術，我們才能對地球表面瞭若指掌。然而，我們仍對地球的內部世界知之甚少，因為洞穴很隱密，例如這座在義大利的深井，我們對洞穴探險和地理屬性知之甚少，經驗也不多，因為我們是住在地球表面的生物，我們對地球內部的認知不確實。如同我們對海洋或是大氣的理解，一樣不清楚。 但是由於我們在一個世紀之前就對洞穴開始了系統性探索，所以我們知道其實世界各大洲都有洞穴。如美國肯塔基州的猛獁洞，一個洞穴系統就可長達超過 600 公里。至於世界上已知的最深洞穴，高加索地區的庫魯伯亞拉洞穴，這個無底洞可深達地面下超過 2,000 公尺，這代表著洞穴探險家需要花上數週進行探險。 洞穴會在喀斯特地區形成，喀斯特地區是指世上某些地方，裂紋和破裂處的入滲水可輕易溶解可溶性岩石，並形成由地道組成的引流系統。其實這就是一個三維網絡。喀斯特地區佔各大洲接近百分之二十的面積。我們也知道洞穴學者事實上在過去的五十年間，曾在世界各地約三萬公里的洞穴通道進行探險。這是一個很大的探險。但地質學家曾估算有待被發現及測繪的範圍仍有約一千萬公里。 這代表著我們已經知道的、已經探索的每一公尺洞穴，就有大約幾十公里的通道尚未被發現。這代表著這是一個真正無盡頭的領域，我們永遠都不可能完成所有探險。這個估算沒有包含其他類型的洞穴在內，例如冰川洞穴，甚至是由熔岩流形成、非喀斯特地貌的火山洞穴。如果我們留意其他星球，例如火星，你們會發現這個特徵並非我們星球獨有。現在我會讓你們看到即使不到火星去，我們也能夠探索外星世界。 我是洞穴學者，也就是洞穴探險家。我從年輕時就熱愛探索離我家不遠、位於義大利北部阿爾卑斯山脈及多洛米蒂山脈的喀斯特地區洞穴。但過了不久，持續的探索帶領我到地球最遠的角落，找尋可能通往這尚未被發現的領域入口。2009 年，我有機會到訪位於奧利諾科及亞馬遜盆地的平頂山地形山脈。從第一次見到這些平頂山地塊，我就為之著迷。它們被垂直、令人暈眩的岩壁所包圍，還有沒入森林的銀色瀑布。它們有著遠超於數百萬年的靈魂，那份荒蕪感啟發了我。這戲劇性的地貌同時也啟發了許多其他事物，例如柯南・道爾在 1912 年所著的小說《失落的世界》。它們也的確是一個失落的世界。科學家認為以前這些山脈為島嶼，在千百萬年前從周邊低地中分離出來。它們被可高達一千公尺的岩壁包圍，就像人類無法攻破的堡壘。而事實上，人類只曾攀登或探索少數的山頂。 這些山脈也有著一個科學悖論：它們由石英形成，石英是地殼很常見的礦物質。而由石英形成的岩石被稱為石英岩，是地球上最堅硬、最難溶解的礦物質之一，所以我們從沒想過能在那裡找到洞穴。然而，在過去的十年中，來自義大利、斯洛伐克、捷克以及委內瑞拉和巴西的洞穴學者，曾探索這個地區的數個洞穴。這怎麼可能呢？ 為了理解這矛盾之處，我們必須考慮時間因素。由於平頂山的歷史相當久遠，約十六億年前岩石開始形成，然後在一億五千年前，這個地域繼盤古超大陸瓦解形成大西洋後，開始上升，逐漸演變。因此，你可以想像流水有著億萬年的時間在平頂山表面塑造出奇怪的形狀，也開啟了破裂處形成石頭城市、岩石城市，即平頂山地貌特有的塔型岩柱。但任誰也無法想像，在這麼長的時間，一座山裡到底發生了什麼事。 在 2010 年，我專注於其中一座平頂山地塊，奧揚特普伊山。由於有著世界上最高、垂直高達約 979 米的安赫爾（天使）瀑布，這座山因而非常有名。而我則透過衛星圖像尋找洞穴存在的痕跡，終於找到了一處下陷的地面，有碩大的礫石和巖堆，代表下方是空的。這明確指出，那山裡有些甚麼。 於是我們好幾次嘗試以陸路搭配直升機接近此處，但這相當困難，因為你要知道，這些山脈長年被雲霧所遮蓋。強風以及每年接近4,000 公釐的降雨量，讓我們難以碰到好天氣接近山脈。只有到了 2013 年，我們終於在一處著陸，並開始對洞穴進行探索。 那洞穴非常大。那是平頂高原下的巨型網絡。而在僅僅十天的考察，我們探索了超過20 公里的洞穴通道。那是一個由地下河流、渠道、大洞廳和極深的豎坑組成的巨型網絡。 那真的是一個不可思議的地方。我們把它稱為 ""Imawari Yeuta""。在佩蒙土著語中，意思是「眾神之家」。你必須知道，這些土著從未到過這個地方。他們不可能接近這個地方。但是，那裡流傳著關於山中洞穴的傳說。所以當我們開始探索時，我們需要心懷極大的尊重。這不單是因為土著的宗教信仰，更是因為這裡從無人類進入過，是一個神聖的地方。我們也因此需要根據特別的規則，嘗試不讓我們的存在污染環境。我們亦嘗試與當地社群、土著社群分享我們的發現。 事實上，這些洞穴就是過去的寫照。它們或許需要長達五千萬年，甚至億萬年的時間形成，讓它們成為地球上可探索的洞穴中最古老的一個。你在這裡能找到的，就是失落的世界存在的證據。 當你進入一個石英岩洞，你必須忘掉一切關於洞穴的知識，例如你在某些地方可到訪的典型的石灰岩洞或觀光洞穴。因為那裡看似普通的鐘乳石，並非由碳酸鈣形成，而是由蛋白石形成。而每個鐘乳石都需要千百萬年形成。你還能找到更奇怪的形狀，例如長在大石頭上的蘑菇狀矽石。你也可以想像一下我們在探索洞穴期間的談話。那是我們第一次進入這個未知的地方，發現未知的事物，像是這些巨大的蛋。我們有些害怕，因為這不過是一場探險，我們並不想找到恐龍。而我們的確也沒找到恐龍。 （笑聲） 其實，經過數次研究，我們得知是生物形成了這些東西。這是細菌菌落利用二氧化矽做成形似疊層石的礦物結構，疊層石是地球上最古老的生命之一。而有趣的是，在平頂山，細菌菌落可以演化成與外界完全隔離，並與人類毫無接觸的情況。他們從未接觸過人類。這帶給科學界的暗示相當重大，因為你能找到，比如說，在醫學上可用於治療疾病的微生物，或者是有著未知特質的新材料。事實上，我們在洞穴中為科學界發現了一種新的礦物結構，是一種名為 rossiantonite 的磷酸鹽—硫酸鹽類。 不論你在洞穴裡找到什麼，就算只是一隻蟋蟀，也在黑暗和徹底的隔離下進行了演化。而你在洞穴裡感受到的一切，皆是生物界以及礦物學界的真實連接。當我們探索這黑暗的領域，並發現其礦物學與生物學的多樣性和獨特之處，我們或許就能得知我們星球上生命的起源，和生命進化與礦物之間的關係。它看起來只是一個黑暗空虛的環境，但事實上可能充斥著有用資訊的奇妙之處。 連同被稱為「拉文塔食鳥蜘蛛」探險隊這一組來自義大利、委內瑞拉和巴西的洞穴學者，我們不久將回到拉丁美洲，因為我們希望探索在亞馬遜最遠處的其他平頂山地貌。世上仍有許多未知的山脈，例如海拔高達 3,000 米的馬拉瓦卡山脈，或是位於巴西內格羅河上游的阿拉卡山。我們預計能夠找到更大的洞穴系統，而每個洞穴都有著專屬於它未知的世界。 謝謝。 （掌聲） 布鲁諾・吉桑尼：謝謝你，法蘭斯高。先給我那個，以免我們忘記。法蘭斯高，你說我們不需要到火星便能找到外星生命。的確，上次我們談話時，你正在撒丁島培訓歐洲的太空人。那麼你身為洞穴學者，你都向太空人說或教些甚麼呢？ 法蘭斯高・紹羅：是的，我們......這是一個在洞穴裡培訓歐洲還有美國太空總署、俄國及日本太空人的計劃 。他們會在洞穴過一個星期與世隔絕的生活。他們必須在相當危險的環境中合作。這對他們來說的確是一個異世界，因為它是那麼的不尋常。它總是黑暗。他們必須做科學研究。他們有許多任務要完成。這與前往火星或國際太空站非常相似。 布：原則上來說。法：是的。 布：我想回到你投影片的其中一張照片。那是所有照片中最具代表性的一張。 那些照片很不可思議，對吧？ 觀眾：對！ （掌聲） 法：我得感謝拉文塔團隊的攝影師，因為這些照片都是出自那些攝影師。 布：你在探險期間，真的帶著攝影師。他們是專業人士，他們是洞穴學者，也是攝影師。但當我看著這些照片，我很納悶，地表下沒有任何光線，看起來卻曝光良好 。你們怎麼拍下這些照片？你的同事，這些攝影師，怎麼拍下這些照片？ 法：是的，他們基本上是在黑暗的空間中工作。因此你能按下相機的快門，利用燈光掃描環境。 布：所以你基本上是....... 法：是的，你甚至可以設定長達一分鐘的快門，然後掃描環境。最終的成果，就是你想得到的。 布：你在環境中灑滿燈光，而那正是你想要的。或許某一天我們能在家嘗試，可以嗎？ （笑聲） 布：謝謝你，法蘭斯高。法：謝謝。（掌聲）"
