Talk	en	zh-tw
francis_de_los_reyes_sanitation_is_a_basic_human_right	I am an engineering professor, and for the past 14 years I've been teaching crap. (Laughter) Not that I'm a bad teacher, but I've been studying and teaching about human waste and how waste is conveyed through these wastewater treatment plants, and how we engineer and design these treatment plants so that we can protect surface water like rivers. I've based my scientific career on using leading-edge molecular techniques, DNA- and RNA-based methods to look at microbial populations in biological reactors, and again to optimize these systems. And over the years, I have developed an unhealthy obsession with toilets, and I've been known to sneak into toilets and take my camera phone all over the world. But along the way, I've learned that it's not just the technical side, but there's also this thing called the culture of crap. So for example, how many of you are washers and how many of you are wipers? (Laughter) If, well, I guess you know what I mean. If you're a washer, then you use water for anal cleansing. That's the technical term. And if you're a wiper, then you use toilet paper or, in some regions of the world where it's not available, newspaper or rags or corncobs. And this is not just a piece of trivia, but it's really important to understand and solve the sanitation problem. And it is a big problem: There are 2.5 billion people in the world who don't have access to adequate sanitation. For them, there's no modern toilet. And there are 1.1 billion people whose toilets are the streets or river banks or open spaces, and again, the technical term for that is open defecation, but that is really simply shitting in the open. And if you're living in fecal material and it's surrounding you, you're going to get sick. It's going to get into your drinking water, into your food, into your immediate surroundings. So the United Nations estimates that every year, there are  1.5 million child deaths because of inadequate sanitation. That's one preventable death every 20 seconds, 171 every hour, 4,100 every day. And so, to avoid open defecation, municipalities and cities build infrastructure, for example, like pit latrines, in peri-urban and rural areas. For example, in KwaZulu-Natal  province in South Africa, they've built tens of thousands of these pit latrines. But there's a problem when you scale up to tens of thousands, and the problem is, what happens when the pits are full? This is what happens. People defecate around the toilet. In schools, children defecate on the floors and then leave a trail outside the building and start defecating around the building, and these pits have to be cleaned and manually emptied. And who does the emptying? You've got these workers who have to sometimes go down into the pits and manually remove the contents. It's a dirty and dangerous business. As you can see, there's no protective equipment, no protective clothing. There's one worker down there. I hope you can see him. He's got a face mask on, but no shirt. And in some countries, like India, the lower castes are condemned to empty the pits, and they're further condemned by society. So you ask yourself, how can we solve this and why don't we just build Western-style flush toilets for these two and a half billion? And the answer is, it's just not possible. In some of these areas, there's not enough water, there's no energy, it's going to cost tens of trillions of dollars to lay out the sewer lines and to build the facilities and to operate and maintain these systems, and if you don't build it right, you're going to have flush toilets that basically go straight into the river, just like what's happening in many cities in the developing world. And is this really the solution? Because essentially, what you're doing is you're using clean water and you're using it to flush your toilet, convey it to a wastewater treatment plant which then discharges to a river, and that river, again, is a drinking water source. So we've got to rethink sanitation, and we've got to reinvent the sanitation infrastructure, and I'm going to argue that to do this, you have to employ systems thinking. We have to look at the whole sanitation chain. We start with a human interface, and then we have to think about how feces are collected and stored, transported, treated and reused — and not just disposal but reuse. So let's start with the human user interface. I say, it doesn't matter if you're a washer or a wiper, a sitter or a squatter, the human user interface should be clean and easy to use, because after all, taking a dump should be pleasurable. (Laughter) And when we open the possibilities to understanding this sanitation chain, then the back-end technology, the collection to the reuse, should not really matter, and then we can apply locally adoptable and context-sensitive solutions. So we can open ourselves to possibilities like, for example, this urine-diverting toilet, and there's two holes in this toilet. There's the front and the back, and the front collects the urine, and the back collects the fecal material. And so what you're doing is you're separating the urine, which has 80 percent of the nitrogen and 50 percent of the phosphorus, and then that can then be treated and precipitated to form things like struvite, which is a high-value fertilizer, and then the fecal material can then be disinfected and again converted to high-value end products. Or, for example, in some of our research, you can reuse the water by treating it in on-site sanitation systems like planter boxes or constructed wetlands. So we can open up all these possibilities if we take away the old paradigm of flush toilets and treatment plants. So you might be asking, who's going to pay? Well, I'm going to argue that governments should fund sanitation infrastructure. NGOs and donor organizations, they can do their best, but it's not going to be enough. Governments should fund sanitation the same way they fund roads and schools and hospitals and other infrastructure like bridges, because we know, and the WHO has done this study, that for every dollar that we invest in sanitation infrastructure, we get something like three to 34 dollars back. Let's go back to the problem of pit emptying. So at North Carolina State University, we challenged our students to come up with a simple solution, and this is what they came up with: a simple, modified screw auger that can move the waste up from the pit and into a collecting drum, and now the pit worker doesn't have to go down into the pit. We tested it in South Africa, and it works. We need to make it more robust, and we're going to do more testing in Malawi and South Africa this coming year. And our idea is to make this a professionalized pit-emptying service so that we can create a small business out of it, create profits and jobs, and the hope is that, as we are rethinking sanitation, we are extending the life of these pits so that we don't have to resort to quick solutions that don't really make sense. I believe that access to adequate sanitation is a basic human right. We need to stop the practice of lower castes and lower-status people going down and being condemned to empty pits. It is our moral, it is our social and our environmental obligation. Thank you. (Applause)	我是工程學教授，過去 14 年來，我都在教廢物。（笑聲）不是因為我是個壞老師，而是因為一直以來我都在研究、教導人類的排泄物，以及廢物如何透過廢水處理廠運送，還有我們如何規劃與設計這些處理廠，讓我們能保護地表水，像是河川。 我的科學職業生涯奠基在運用頂尖的分子技術、應用去氧核糖核酸 (DNA) 與核糖核酸 (RNA) 的技術，並透過生物反應器檢視細菌量，然後再次優化這些機制。經過這些年，我對廁所有種病態的迷戀，大家都知道我會偷溜進廁所，還會帶著智慧型手機，在世界各地都一樣。 但靠著這個方式，我發現那不只和科技有關，也和所謂的廢物文化有關。舉例來說，在座有多少人用洗的，有多少人用擦的？（笑聲）你們應該都知道我在講什麼。如果你是用洗的，那你就會用水清洗肛門，這是術語。如果你是用擦的，那你就會用衛生紙，或是世界上有些地方沒有衛生紙，就會用報紙、舊布或玉米穗軸。 這不只是件微不足道的事，相反的，了解並解決公共衛生問題是非常重要的事。有個大問題是，世界上有 25 億人沒有適當的衛生設備。他們沒有現代化的廁所。還有 11 億人的廁所是在大街、河堤，或公共空間，同樣的，術語稱為露天排泄，但這真的單純只是公開大便。如果你住在排泄物之中，排泄物圍繞著你，你就會生病。那會進入你的飲用水和食物中，直接進入你的週遭環境裡。聯合國估計每年有 150 萬名孩童死亡是因為缺乏適當的公共衛生。這是可避免的，每 20 秒就能救一個人，每小時就能救 171 人，每天就能救 4,100 人。因此，為了避免露天排泄，市政當局會做公共建設，像在市區周圍和鄉村裡蓋茅坑。例如，南非的誇祖魯-納塔爾省已經蓋了幾萬個這種茅坑。但還有個問題，當你增加到幾萬個茅坑，問題是那些坑滿了怎麼辦？就會變這樣，大家在廁所旁邊排泄。孩童在學校的地板上排泄，接著在建築外留下一連串，然後開始繞著建築排泄，這些茅坑必須清理和用人力清空。但誰去清空？有一些工人會不時進到茅坑裡動手清除內容物。這是件又髒又危險的工作。如你所見，他們沒有防護設備，也沒有防護服裝。有個工人在那下面。希望你看得見他。他戴著面具，但沒穿衣服。在某些國家，像是印度，種姓階級較低的人被迫要清茅坑，他們在社會上也被迫害。 你可以自問，我們能怎麼解決這個問題，以及我們為什麼不能就蓋個西式的沖水馬桶給這 25 億人用？答案是，不可能。某些地區沒有足夠的水，沒有足夠的能源，預計要花上兆美元來設計管線、建造廁所、管理和維護那些系統，而且如果你沒蓋好，沖水馬桶就會直接連上河流，就像許多發展中國家的城市一樣。但這真的是解決方式嗎？因為基本上，你就是用乾淨的水，你用清水來沖馬桶，沖到廢水處理廠，接著就會排到河裡，而河流同樣是飲用水來源。 因此，我們得重新思考公共衛生，並重新發明那些公共衛生設施，而我會證明要這麼做，就得運用系統思維。我們必須檢視整個公共衛生鏈。我們從人體使用者介面開始，接著要思考排泄物要如何收集、儲存、運送、處理和再利用，不只是丟棄，而是要再利用。 因此我們先從人體使用者介面開始。我認為，不論你是用洗的還是用擦的，用坐的還是用蹲的，人體使用者介面都必須乾淨，而且要容易操作，因為畢竟上大號應該要是讓人身心愉快的事。（笑聲）當我們開始了解這個公共衛生鏈，接下來就是後端技術，收集來再利用，應該沒那麼麻煩，然後我們可以運用當地可操作與合情合理的解決方式。因此，我們就更有可能做，例如，這個尿糞分離廁所，裡頭有兩個洞。一前一後，前面的收集尿液，後面的收集糞便。這個作法就是分離出尿液，尿液有 80% 的氮和 50% 的磷，經過處理和沉澱就能形成鳥糞石之類的東西，那是營養價值很高的肥料；然後糞便經過消毒，同樣會轉變成高價值的終產物。例如，我們的某些研究中，水經過處理後就能重覆利用，只要運用在地的公衛系統，像是花盆或人工濕地。因此我們可以讓一切都成真，只要我們拋棄舊式的沖水馬桶和污水處理廠。 你也許會問，誰來買單？我認為政府應該要提供公共衛生設施的資金。非營利團體和贊助單位可以盡一己之力，但永遠都不夠。政府花在公共衛生上的資金應該要等同於道路、學校、醫院，和其他設施，像是橋樑，因為我們知道，世界衛生組織的研究指出，我們每投資一美元在公共衛生設施上，就能得到 3 到 34 美元的回饋。 我們回來談清空茅坑的問題。我們在北卡羅來納州立大學鼓勵學生想出簡單的方法，他們想出了簡易的改造螺旋鑽，能夠將排泄物從茅坑移入回收桶，這樣清潔工就不需要再進入茅坑了。我們在南非的測試成功了。我們需要讓它更堅固耐用，而且我們會做更多測試，預計明年在馬拉威和南非做。我們的想法是讓它變成專業的茅坑清理服務，如此一來，就能以此建立小型企業，創造營收和工作機會。我們期待，在重新思考公共衛生的同時，也能延長這些茅坑的壽命，這樣我們就不需要依靠能應急卻沒什意義的解決方式。 我相信能使用適當的公共衛生設施是基本人權。我們應該阻止勞役種姓階級和社經地位較低的人，讓他們免於被迫進入茅坑清理。這是我們在道德上、我們在社會上，以及我們在環境上應盡的義務。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
