Talk	en	zh-tw
franco_sacchi_on_nollywood	"I have a story, a story that I would like to share with you. And it's an African story. It is a story of hope, resilience and glamour. There was Hollywood. Then came Bollywood. Today we have Nollywood, the third-largest film industry in the world. In 2006 alone, almost 2,000 films were made in Nigeria. Now, try to imagine 40, 50 films wrapped, distributed, every week in the streets of Lagos, Nigeria and West Africa. Some estimates put the value of this industry at 250 million dollars. It has created thousands, if not tens of thousands of jobs. And it's expanding. But keep in mind that this was a grassroots movement. This is something that happened without foreign investment, without government aid, and actually, it happened against all odds, in one of the most difficult moments in Nigerian economy. The industry is 15 years old. And so maybe you're thinking now, why, how, an Italian filmmaker based in Boston is so interested in this story? And so I think I have to tell you just a few words, a few things about my personal life, because I think there is a connection. My grandfather lived most of his life and is buried in Zambia. My father also lived most of his adult life in East Africa. And I was born in Zambia. Even though I left when I was only three years old, I really felt that Africa was this big part of my life. And it really was a place where I learned to walk. I think I uttered the first words, and my family bought their first home. So when we came back to Italy, and one of the things that I remember the most is my family having this hard time to share stories. It seemed that for our neighbors and friends, Africa was either this exotic place, this imaginary land that probably exists only in their imagination, or the place of horror, famine. And so we were always caught in this stereotype. And I remember really this desire to talk about Africa as a place where we lived and people live and go about their lives, and have dreams like we all have. So when I read in a newspaper in the business page the story of Nollywood, I really felt this is an incredible opportunity to tell a story that goes against all these preconceived notions. Here I can tell a story of Africans making movies like I do, and actually I felt this was an inspiration for me. I have the good fortune of being a filmmaker-in-residence at the Center of Digital Imaging Arts at Boston University. And we really look how digital technology is changing, and how young, independent filmmakers can make movies at a fraction of the cost. So when I proposed the story, I really had all the support to make this film. And not only had the support, I found two wonderful partners in crime in this adventure. Aimee Corrigan, a very talented and young photographer, and Robert Caputo, a friend and a mentor, who is a veteran of National Geographic, and told me, ""You know, Franco, in 25 years of covering Africa, I don't know if I have come across a story that is so full of hope and so fun."" So we went to Lagos in October 2005. And we went to Lagos to meet Bond Emeruwa, a wonderful, talented film director who is with us tonight. The plan was to give you a portrait of Nollywood, of this incredible film industry, following Bond in his quest to make an action movie that deals with the issue of corruption, called ""Checkpoint."" Police corruption. And he had nine days to make it. We thought this was a good story. In the meantime, we had to cover Nollywood, and we talked to a lot of filmmakers. But I don't want to create too many expectations. I would like to show you six minutes. And these are six minutes they really prepared for the TED audience. There are several themes from the documentary, but they are re-edited and made for you, OK? So I guess it's a world premier. (Video) Man: Action. Milverton Nwokedi: You cut a nice movie with just 10,000 dollars in Nigeria here. And you shoot in seven days. Peace Piberesima: We're doing films for the masses. We're not doing films for the elite and the people in their glass houses. They can afford to watch their ""Robocop"" and whatever. Mahmood Ali Balogun: I think filmmaking in Nigeria, for those who work in it, is a kind of subsistence filmmaking — what they do to make a living. It's not the fancy filmmaking where you say, oh, you want to put all the razzmatazz of Hollywood, and where you have big budgets. Here is that you make these films, it sells, you jump onto the location again to make another film, because if you don't make the next film, you're not going to feed. Bond Emeruwa: So while we're entertaining, we should be able to educate. I believe in the power of audiovisuals. I mean, 90 percent of the population will watch Nollywood. I think it's the most viable vehicle right now to pass information across a dedicated cable. So if you're making a movie, no matter what your topic is, put in a message in there. Woman: You still have to report the incident. He needs proper medical attention. PP: I keep trying to explain to people, it's not about the quality at the moment — the quality is coming. I mean, there are those films that people are making for quality, but the first thing you have to remember about this society is that Africa still has people that live on one dollar a day, and these are the people that really watch these films. Sonny McDon W: Nollywood is a fantastic industry that has just been born in this part of the world. Because nobody believed that Nollywood can come out of Africa. Lancelot Imasen: But our films, they are stories that our people can relate to themselves. They are stories about our people, for our people. And consistently, they are glued to their screen whenever they see the story. Narrator: Suspense, fun and intrigue. It's the blockbuster comedy. You'll crack your ribs. Bernard Pinayon Agbaosi: We have been so deep into the foreign movies. It's all about the foreign movies. But we can do something too. We can do something, something that when the world sees it, they say, wow, this is Nigeria. Man: Just arrest yourself, sergeant. Don't embarrass yourself. Come on. Don't run away. Come back. Come back. SMW: You can now walk the street and see a role model. It’s not just what you see in picture. You see the person live. You see how he talks. You see how he lives. He influences you really good, you know. It’s not just what you see in the picture. It is not what you hear, you know, from the Western press. Man: See you. Bye. Action. Saint Obi: I was so fascinated, you know, with those cowboy movies. But then when I discovered the situation in my country, at that time there was so much corruption. For a young man to really make it out here, you got to think of some negative things and all that, or some kind of vices. And I didn't want that, you know. And I discovered that I could be successful in life as an actor, without doing crime, without cheating nobody, without telling no lies. Just me and God-given talent. Man: Let's go. OK, it's time to kick some ass. Cover this. It's your own. Move it. Roboger Animadu: In big countries, when they do the movies, they have all these things in place. But here, we improvise these items, like the gunshots. Like they go, here, now, now, you see the gun there, but you won't see any guns shot, we use knock-out. Kevin Books Ikeduba: What I'm scared of is just the explosion will come up in my face. Woman: That's why I use enough masking tape. The masking tape will hold it. Wat, wait. Just hold this for me. KBI: I'm just telling her to make sure she places it well so that it won't affect my face — the explosion, you know. But she's a professional. She knows what she’s doing. I'm trying to protect my face too. This ain't going to be my last movie. You know, this is Nollywood, where the magic lives. RA: So now you're about to see how we do our own movies here, with or without any assistance from anybody. Man: Action. Cut. (Applause) Franco Sacchi: So many things to say, so little time. So many themes in this story. I just can't tell you — there’s one thing I want to tell you. I spent, you know, several weeks with all these actors, producers, and the problems they have to go through are unimaginable for, you know, a Westerner, a filmmaker who works in America or in Europe. But always with a smile, always with an enthusiasm, that is incredible. Werner Herzog, the German filmmaker said, ""I need to make movies like you need oxygen."" And I think they’re breathing. The Nigerian filmmakers really, really, are doing what they like. And so it's a very, very important thing for them, and for their audiences. A woman told me, ""When I see a Nollywood film, I can relax, I really — I can breathe better."" There is also another very important thing that I hope will resonate with this audience. It’s technology. I’m very interested in it and I really think that the digital non-linear editing has slashed, you know, the cost now is a fraction of what it used to be. Incredible cameras cost under 5,000 dollars. And this has unleashed tremendous energy. And guess what? We didn’t have to tell to the Nigerian filmmakers. They understood it, they embraced the technology and they run with it, and they’re successful. I hope that the Nollywood phenomenon will go both ways. I hope it will inspire other African nations to embrace the technology, look at the Nigerian model, make their films, create jobs, create a narrative for the population, something to identify, something positive, something that really is psychological relief and it's part of the culture. But I really think this is a phenomenon that can inspire us. I really think it goes both ways. Filmmakers, friends of mine, they look at Nollywood and they say, ""Wow, they are doing what we really want to do, and make a buck and live with this job."" So I really think it’s a lesson that we're actually learning from them. And there's one thing, one small challenge that I have for you, and should make us reflect on the importance of storytelling. And I think this is really the theme of this session. Try to imagine a world where the only goal is food and a shelter, but no stories. No stories around the campfire. No legends, no fairytales. Nothing. No novels. Difficult, eh? It's meaningless. So this is what I really think. I think that the key to a healthy society is a thriving community of storytellers, and I think that the Nigerian filmmakers really have proved this. I would like you to hear their voices. Just a few moments. It’s not an added sequence, just some voices from Nollywood. (Video) Toyin Alousa: Nollywood is the best thing that can happen to them. If you have an industry that puts a smile on people's face, that’s Nollywood. SO: I believe very soon, we’re not only going to have better movies, we'll have that original Nigerian movie. BE: It’s still the same basic themes. Love, action. But we're telling it our own way, our own Nigerian way, African way. We have diverse cultures, diverse cultures, there are so many, that in the natal lifetimes, I don't see us exhausting the stories we have. FS: My job ends here, and the Nollywood filmmakers really have now to work. And I really hope that there will be many, many collaborations, where we teach each other things. And I really hope that this will happen. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Stop. I've got two questions. Franco, you described this as the world's third largest film industry. What does that translate to in terms of numbers of films, really? FS: Oh, yes. I think I mentioned briefly — it's close to 2,000 films. There is scientific data on this. CA: 2,000 films a year? FS: 2,000 films a year. 2005 or 6, the censor board has censored 1,600 films alone. And we know that there are more. So it’s safe to say that there are 2,000 films. So imagine 45 films per week. There are challenges. There are challenges. There is a glut of film, the quality has to be raised, they need to go to the next level, but I’m optimistic. CA: And these aren’t films that are primarily seen in cinemas? FS: Oh yes, of course. This is very important. Maybe, you know, for you to try to imagine this, these are films that are distributed directly in markets. They are bought in video shops. They can be rented for pennies. CA: On what format? FS: Oh, the format — thank you for the question. Yes, it's VCDs. It's a CD, it's a little bit more compressed image. They started with VHS. They actually didn't wait for, you know, the latest technology. They started in '92, '94. So there are 57 million VCRs in Nigeria that play, you know, VHS and these VCDs. It's a CD basically. It's a compact disc. CA: So on the streets, are film casts ... ? FS: You can be in a Lagos traffic jam and you can buy a movie or some bananas or some water. Yes. (Laughter) And I have to say, this really proves that storytelling, it's a commodity, it's a staple. There is no life without stories. CA: Franco, thank you so much."	我要說一個故事，一個非洲的故事，一個關於希望、靭性與魔力的故事。 以前大家只知道好萊塢，接著又看到了寶萊塢，現在則又出現了世界第三大電影製片中心—奈萊塢。光是2006年一年，奈及利亞就製拍了接近2千部電影，想想看，每週有40到50部片殺青，分送到拉哥斯、奈及利亞及西非。有人估計西非的電影市場市值約2億5千萬美金，創造了數千個、甚至數萬個工作機會，目前還在擴大它的規模。請記住，這只是西非當地的電影產業而已，沒有外國資金的投入，沒有政府補助，事實上也沒人相信這個產業會在奈及利亞當地經濟最困難的時候發展起來。這個產業已經發展了15年了， 你可能會懷疑我的動機，為什麼一個住在波士頓的義大利製片會對奈萊塢感興趣？我想我得告訴你們一些事，一些關於我個人的事，因為這些和奈萊塢的故事很有關係。我的祖父大半輩子都住在尚比亞，也葬在尚比亞；我父親成年之後，大多時間也都居住在東非，而我則是在尚比亞出生。雖然我在三歲的時候就離開尚比亞，我仍然覺得非洲在我的生命中佔有重要地位，那是我學會走路的地方，也是我學會說第一個字的地方，我的父母甚至在那裡買了他們的第一棟房子。當我們回到義大利，我最記得的一件事，是我的父母很難向別人講述他們在非洲的經驗。對我們的鄰居或朋友來說，非洲只是一個怪異的地方，一個他們只能想像的地方，或是一個充滿恐懼與饑荒的地方。別人總是以這種刻板印象看待我們，因此我總是清楚地記得，我想要告訴別人，非洲是我們曾經居住過的地方，那裡的人怎麼生活，也和我們一樣擁有夢想。當我在報紙的工商經濟版上讀到有關奈萊塢的故事時，我發覺這真是一個千載難逢的好機會，可以讓我導正一般人對非洲的認知。 非洲也有人像我一樣在拍電影，這個新聞對我來說是一種鼓勵。我很幸運能為波士頓大學的數位影像藝術中心工作，我是駐在當地的電影製片，我們看著數位科技成長改變，看著那些年輕的獨立製片們，用極少的成本拍出電影。所以當我提議要拍這部片時，大家都全力支持，還不只這樣，我在這次的拍片過程中，還找到二位最佳的合作夥伴。艾美．柯瑞根是一位很年輕也很有才華的攝影師，羅勃．卡普托則是我的良師兼益友，他是國家地理頻道的老手，他說：「法蘭克，我在非洲混了25年了，我還沒看過這麼充滿希望、又這麼好玩的故事。」 我們在2005年的10月來到拉哥斯，去拜訪龐德．艾門魯瓦，他今晚也在現場，他是一位很棒很有才華的導演。我們計畫把奈萊塢的現況拍攝出來，拍攝他們了不起的電影工業，我們打算紀錄龐德所拍的一部動作片，一部有關貪污的電影，叫做「檢查哨」，主軸是警察貪污。他打算以9天的時間完成拍攝，我們都覺得那個故事很棒， 但同時我們也得報導整個奈萊塢，所以我們也和其他許多製片閒聊。我不希望你們把期望設得太高，我給你們看一段6分鐘的影片，這是我們特別為TED的觀眾所準備的6分鐘影片。在原本的紀錄片裡有許多不同的主軸，但這支影片是專門為各位剪輯的，好嗎？所以這是這支影片的世界首映會。 (影片)開拍！在奈及利亞，只要花1萬美金就可以拍出一部不錯的電影，而且只要七天就可以拍完。我們只為普羅大眾拍攝電影，我們可不是為了坐在玻璃屋裡自以為是社會精英的人拍電影，那些人付得起門票去看「機器戰警」那一類的電影。我認為在奈及利亞電影工業裡工作的人，都是靠拍電影維生，他們靠拍電影度日，而不是像你所想的那種在好萊塢的大手筆製片，可以做出又酷又炫的特效。 這裡的作法是，你先拍一部片，如果可以賣錢，你才有機會再拍下一部片，因為如果不拍下一部片，就沒錢餵飽肚子。因此當我們在娛樂大眾時，我們也該負起教育的責任。 我相信視覺效果的力量，有90%的人會看哪萊塢的電影，我認為這是目前最有效的傳播媒體，可以將資訊傳達給大眾。如果你在拍電影，不管你的主題是什麼，記得要在電影裡宣導一些事。你得報警...他需要適當的醫療照護。我一直不斷告訴大家，現在不是談論電影水準的時候，水準遲早會提升的。我是說，有些人確實是在努力提升影片水準，但在這個地區拍片，有一件事是一定要優先考慮的，那就是非洲現在還是有人1天只靠1美金過活，而這些人才是會看電影的人。 哪萊塢是一個夢想工業，是最近才誕生在這個地區的產業，因爲沒人相信奈萊塢能走得出非洲。我們拍的影片，講述的是讓非洲人民有感觸的故事，是非洲人的故事，也是為非洲人所拍的電影。而且，每次他們只要一看到非洲電影，他們就不可自拔地愛上這些電影。有懸疑、有爆笑，還有陰謀詭計，這是一齣喜劇大片，包準你笑破肚皮。 我們深受外國電影的影響，大家談的都是外國電影，但我們也可以拍出一樣的電影，我們可以拍出讓全世界刮目相看的電影，大家會說，哇！這就是奈及利亞！束手就擒吧，警官！別丟自己的臉！來吧！別跑，回來，回來！ 現在，我們在街上就可以看到自己的偶像，不是我們在電影裡看到的模樣，而是活生生的人，你會看到他說話，看到他過自己的生活，他對你發揮了正面的影響，不光只是在螢幕上表演而已，他們不是西方媒體所報導的那種明星。再見！開拍！ 我對西部牛仔片很著迷，但當我發現我們國家貪污的情形很嚴重時，我發現年輕人想要成功，一定得走邪門歪道，或是做壞事。但我不想成為壞人，我發現自己有演戲的天份，我不需要犯法、不需要欺騙別人、也不需要說謊，只要運用我的天份就可以成功。我們走吧！該上場了！把這個藏好，那是你的！快點！ 在先進國家拍電影時，都會先把這些東西準備好，但是在這裡，我們都是湊合著用，像是這個槍傷，就是要在這裡，對，這裡，你會看到槍，但你看不到槍發射的畫面，我們會剪接。我怕碎片會飛濺到我臉上...所以我才用這麼多膠帶，膠帶會固定住這些碎片。等一下，先拿著不要動...我要告訴她一定要把東西放到正確的位置上，這樣爆炸才不會爆到我的臉上。她很專業，她知道自己在做什麼，但我只想保護我的臉，我可不希望這是我拍的最後一部電影。這裡是奈萊塢，有魔力的地方。 你等會兒會看到我們怎麼拍攝電影的，不管有沒有人協助，我們都可以拍。開拍！停！(掌聲) 法蘭柯．薩奇：時間不夠啊...這部片裡要說的故事太多了，我沒時間全部講出來，但我要說一件事，我花了好幾個星期和這些演員、製片們在一起，他們所遭遇到的問題，是我們這種西方製片在美國或歐洲拍片時所無法想像的，但他們永遠保持笑容，永遠懷抱熱忱，真的很了不起！ 德國製片華納．赫佐格說：「我想要拍片的慾望就像你想呼吸一樣強烈。」我認為他們就是在呼吸，那些奈及利亞製片們真的是在做他們喜歡做的事，對他們來說，拍片非常、非常重要，對他們的觀眾也一樣重要。有位女士告訴我：「每當我看完一部奈萊塢的片之後，我就能放鬆自己，我也能呼吸得更順暢了。」 還有另一件能與觀眾產生共鳴的重要事情，就是科技。我對科技非常感興趣，我真的認為數位非線性式的剪輯方式大大降低了拍片成本，現在的成本只是以往的一部分而已。現在買一台很棒的攝影機花不到5千美金，光是這部分就省了一大筆錢。猜猜看怎麼樣？我們甚至不必告訴奈及利亞的製片們這件事，他們早就知道了，他們早就採用這種科技技術，他們用這種技術拍片，而且很成功。我希望奈萊塢現象可以雙向發展，我希望奈萊塢能激勵非洲其他國也來擁抱科技，來看看奈及利亞成功的經驗，一起來拍片，創造就業機會，為人們創造故事，創造屬於這個國家的故事，創造一些正面、撫慰人心的故事，讓這些故事成為文化的一部分。我真的認為奈萊塢現象也可以激勵我們，我真的覺得它的影響是雙向的。 我的一些製片朋友，看了奈萊塢之後說：「哇！他們做的就是我們一直想要做的事，就是用拍片來維持生計。」我認為這是一個很好的教材，我們可以從他們身上學到許多東西。還有一件事，我要給你們一個小小的挑戰，讓我們來反思說故事的重要性，我認為這才是這次演說的主題。試著想像一下，你活在一個只為生計打拼的世界，沒有故事可說，大家圍在營火旁卻沒有故事可說，沒有傳說，也沒有神話，什麼都沒有，也沒有小說。很困難吧？一點意義也沒有。 這就是我在思考的事，我認為一個健全的社會，一定有很多說故事的人，奈及利亞的製片們就證明了這一點，我希望各位能傾聽他們的心聲，只要一下子就好，這不是續集，只是奈萊塢的心聲。 影片：對這裡的人來說，奈萊塢是他們人生中最棒的事，如果會有一個產業的從業人員整天都掛著笑臉，那一定是奈萊塢。我很快就相信我們不只是要拍出更好的影片，我們還會拍出原汁原味的奈及利亞電影，故事的主軸都一樣，有愛、有動作，但我們的電影會有自己的風格、奈及利亞的風格、非洲的風格。我們的文化很多元，很多種類，但在我有生之年，我不認為我們可以把這些故事全都拍成電影。 法蘭柯：我的演講就到這裡了，奈萊塢的製片們現在正努力地工作著，我真心希望能看到更多、更多的交流，讓我們彼此互相學習，我真心盼望這一天的到來，謝謝各位！(掌聲) 克里斯．安德森：等一下，我有二個問題。法蘭柯，你說奈萊塢是世界上第三大的電影製片場，實際上是有多少影片數量呢？ 法蘭柯：噢，我想我之前簡短提到過了，大約是2千部片，這是有科學統計數據的。 克里斯：一年2千部片？法蘭柯：一年2千部片，在2005年或2006年，電影審查局就審查了1千6百部片，而我們知道其實還有更多影片，所以保守估計是2千部片。想想看一個星期要出產45部片，那會有多困難，挑戰真的很多。電影大量充斥在市面上，水準有待提升，他們也必須提升到另一個層級之上，但我對這些都很樂觀。 克里斯：這些片並不是在戲院播放吧？ 法蘭柯：對，不是，這一點很重要，你想想看，這些片都是直接在市場上販售，你可以在影片商店裡買影片，也可以花個幾分錢租來看。 克里斯：影片是什麼格式？ 法蘭柯：噢，格式，謝謝你問這個問題，那裡的影片是VCD。就像CD一樣，只是再把影像壓縮進去而已。他們一開始是看VHS錄影帶，他們等不及要看，所以不是最新的科技。從1992或1994年開始，奈及利亞已經有了5千7百萬台的卡帶式錄影機，可以用來播放VHS錄影帶。而這些VCD其實就是CD，壓縮後的光碟。 克里斯：大街上就有在賣這些影片嗎？ 法蘭柯：你可能會因為塞車而卡在拉哥斯街頭，這時你就可以買部影片，配個香蕉和一瓶水什麼的。(笑聲)我必須說，奈萊塢證明了說故事這一行，可以成為一項商品，而且是民生必須品，沒有人是沒有故事的。 克里斯：法蘭柯，非常謝謝你！
