Talk	en	zh-tw
fredy_peccerelli_a_forensic_anthropologist_who_brings_closure_for_the_disappeared	"Guatemala is recovering from a 36-year armed conflict. A conflict that was fought during the Cold War. It was really just  a small leftist insurgency and a devastating response by the state. What we have as a result is 200,000 civilian victims, 160,000 of those killed in the communities: small children, men, women,  the elderly even. And then we have  about 40,000 others, the missing, the ones we're still looking for today. We call them the Desaparecidos. Now, 83 percent of the victims  are Mayan victims, victims that are the descendants of the original inhabitants of  Central America. And only about 17 percent are of  European descent. But the most important thing here is that the very people who are supposed to  defend us, the police, the military, are the ones that committed most of the crimes. Now the families, they want information. They want to know what happened. They want the bodies of their loved ones. But most of all, what they want is they want you, they want everyone to know that their loved ones did nothing wrong. Now, my case was that my father received death threats in 1980. And we left. We left Guatemala and we came here. So I grew up in New York, I grew up in Brooklyn as a matter of fact, and I went to New Utrecht High School and I graduated from Brooklyn College. The only thing was that I really didn't know what  was happening in Guatemala. I didn't care for it; it was too painful. But it wasn't till 1995 that I decided to do something about it. So I went back. I went back to Guatemala,  to look for the bodies, to understand what happened and to look for part of myself as well. The way we work is that we give people information. We talk to the family members and we let them choose. We let them decide to tell us the stories, to tell us what they saw, to tell us about their loved ones. And even more important, we let them choose to give us a piece of themselves. A piece, an essence, of who they are. And that DNA is what we're  going to compare to the DNA that comes from the skeletons. While we're doing that, though, we're looking for the bodies. And these are skeletons by now, most of these crimes  happened 32 years ago. When we find the grave, we take out the dirt and eventually clean  the body, document it, and exhume it. We literally bring the  skeleton out of the ground. Once we have those bodies, though, we take them back to the city, to our lab, and we begin a process of trying to understand mainly two things: One is how people died. So here you see a gunshot wound to the back of the head or a machete wound, for example. The other thing we want to understand is who they are. Whether it's a baby, or an adult. Whether it's a woman or a man. But when we're done with that analysis what we'll do is we'll take a small  fragment of the bone and we'll extract DNA from it. We'll take that DNA and then we'll compare it with the DNA of the families, of course. The best way to explain this to you is by showing you two cases. The first is the case  of the military diary. Now this is a document that was smuggled out of somewhere in 1999. And what you see there is the state following individuals, people that, like you,  wanted to change their country, and they jotted everything down. And one of the things that they wrote  down is when they executed them. Inside that yellow rectangle,  you see a code, it's a secret code: 300. And then you see a date. The 300 means ""executed"" and the date  means when they were executed. Now that's going to come into play in a second. What we did is we conducted an exhumation in 2003, where we exhumed 220 bodies from 53 graves in a military base. Grave 9, though, matched the family of Sergio Saul Linares. Now Sergio was a professor at the university. He graduted from Iowa State University and went back to Guatemala to change his country. And he was captured on  February 23, 1984. And if you can see there, he was  executed on March 29, 1984, which was incredible. We had the body, we had the family's  information and their DNA, and now we have documents that told us exactly what happened. But most important is about two weeks later, we go another hit, another match from the same grave to Amancio Villatoro. The DNA of that body also matched the DNA of that family. And then we noticed that he was also in the diary. But it was amazing to see that he was  also executed on March 29, 1984. So that led us to think, hmm,  how many bodies were in the grave? Six. So then we said, how many people were executed on March 29, 1984? That's right, six as well. So we have Juan de Dios, Hugo, Moises and Zoilo. All of them executed on the same date,  all captured at different locations and at different moments. All put in that grave. The only thing we needed now was the DNA of those four families So we went and we looked for them and we found them. And we identified those six bodies and gave them back to the families. The other case I want to tell you about is that of a military base  called CREOMPAZ. It actually means, ""to believe in peace,"" but the acronym really means Regional Command Center for Peacekeeping Operations. And this is where the Guatemalan military trains peacekeepers from other countries, the ones that serve with the U.N. and go to countries like Haiti and the Congo. Well, we have testimony that said that within this military base, there were bodies, there were graves. So we went in there with a search warrant and about two hours after we went in, we found the first of 84 graves,  a total of 533 bodies. Now, if you think about that, peacekeepers being trained on top of bodies. It's very ironic. But the bodies — face down, most of them, hands tied behind their backs, blindfolded, all types of trauma — these were people who were defenseless who were being executed. People that 533 families are looking for. So we're going to focus on Grave 15. Grave 15, what we noticed, was a grave full of women and children, 63 of them. And that immediately made us think, my goodness, where is there a case like this? When I got to Guatemala in 1995, I heard of a case of a massacre that happened on May 14, 1982, where the army came in, killed the men, and took the women and children  in helicopters to an unknown location. Well, guess what? The clothing from this grave matched the  clothing from the region where these people were taken from, where these women and children  were taken from. So we conducted some DNA analysis, and guess what? We identified Martina Rojas  and Manuel Chen. Both of them disappeared in that case, and now we could prove it. We have physical evidence that proves that this happened and that those people  were taken to this base. Now, Manuel Chen was three years old. His mother went to the river to wash  clothes, and she left him with a neighbor. That's when the army came and that's when he was taken away in  a helicopter and never seen again until we found him in Grave 15. So now with science, with archaeology,  with anthropology, with genetics, what we're doing is, we're giving a voice to the voiceless. But we're doing more than that. We're actually providing  evidence for trials, like the genocide trial that happened  last year in Guatemala where General Ríos Montt was found guilty of genocide and sentenced to 80 years. So I came here to tell you today that this is happening everywhere — it's happening in Mexico right in front of us today — and we can't let it go on anymore. We have to now come together and decide that we're not going to have  any more missing. So no more missing, guys. Okay? No more missing. Thank you. (Applause)"	瓜地馬拉正在從36年前的武力衝突中恢復過來這個衝突是在冷戰期間發生的那其實只是一個很小的左翼暴動和一個政府方面具有極端破壞性的反應結果是20萬的人民受害其中16萬人在他們的社區內被殺小孩，男人，女人，甚者老人此外，還有4萬人失踪我們至今仍在尋找這些人我們稱他們為“消失者” 有百分之八十三的受害者是馬雅人這些馬雅受害者是中美洲原始住民的後代只有差不多百分之十七是歐洲人的後代但是最重要的是那些應該是要保護我們的人，警察和軍隊正是殺害這些人民的罪魁禍首 現在受害者的家人們想要知道到底發生了什麼事？他們要取回他們所愛的家人的屍體但最重要的是，他們想要你們他們要每個人都知道他們所愛的家人並沒有做錯任何事 我家的情況是我父親在1980年受到死亡威脅我們就離開瓜地馬拉來到這裡所以我是在紐約長大的實際上我是在布魯克林區長大的我上過新優翠特高中然後畢業於布魯克林學院唯一的一件事是我真的不知道在瓜地馬拉究竟發生了什麼事我也不想知道；因為太痛苦了一直到1995年我才決定要為它做點什麼所以我回去了我回到瓜地馬拉去尋找那些被殺害者的屍體去了解事件的真相也去尋找我自己的一部分 我們工作的方式是：由我們給大家資訊和家人討論，讓他們選擇我們讓他們決定要不要將他們的故事告訴我們告訴我們他們看到的告訴我們關於他們所愛的家人的事更重要的是我們讓他們決定是否給我們他們自己的一部分主要是，”他們是誰“的一部分那些DNA就是我們要用來比對骨骸的DNA 在做那個的同時我們也在找受害者的屍體那些現在都已成為骨骸了大多數的罪行發生在32年前當我們找到墳墓時我們清掉泥土，最後清潔身體，做資料，再取出來我們真的是從地下取出骨骸 拿到這些屍體後, 我們將他們帶回到我們所在城市的實驗室然後我們開始試著去了解主要的兩點：第一點是他們是怎麼死的這裡你看到的是從頭後面開槍的傷口或者例如是用彎刀砍的傷口另一點我們要了解的是他們是誰是一個嬰兒？或是一個成人？是女人？ 還是男人？但是當我們完成分析後我們會拿骨頭的一小碎片然後從那裡抽取出DNA我們再拿那個DNA和他們家人的DNA做比對 為各位解釋這一點的最好方法就是讓你們看兩個例子第一個是是軍方日記這個是在1999年從某處偷渡出來的文件然後你這裡看到的是政府追踪一個人一個像你一樣想要改變他們的國家的人他們將每件事記錄下來他們寫下來的其中一件事是他們殺害這些人的日期在那個黃色的方塊內有一個密碼：300然後你看到一個日期那個300是指“已殺害” 那個日期是他們被殺害的日期等一下你就會知道關聯了我們在2003年做了一次墳墓挖掘那次我們在一個軍事基地內的53個墳墓挖出了220個屍體而從第九號墳墓堆出來的是沙基歐·沙無·李拿瑞斯沙基歐是一位大學教授他畢業於愛荷華州立大學回到瓜地馬拉去改變他的國家他在1984年2月23日被抓走如果你看得到的話他是在1984年3月29日被殺的真是不可思議我們有屍體，家人資料和他們的DNA現在我們也有文件資料告訴我們發生的事情 但更重要的，大約兩星期後我們有找到另一個成功的配對也是在同一個墳墓叫做阿曼西歐·威亞頭羅那個屍體的DNA也和那個家人配對成功然後我們也注意到他也被記載在日記裡驚人的是 他也是在1984年3月29日被殺的那讓我們開始思考，到底那個墳墓有幾個屍體有6個然後我們就在想到底有幾個人在1984年3月29日被殺呢沒錯，也是六個我們找到璜·德·蒂歐斯，烏鉤，摩伊瑟斯和索依樓他們在不同地方被抓但都是在同一天被殺不同的時間被殺都放在同一個墳墓我們只需要這個四個家人的DNA我們就去找他們，而我們也找到了我們確認了那六個屍體然後還給他們的家人 另一個我要告訴你們的案例是一個名為哥列偶安巴斯的軍事基地它的意思其實是“相信和平”但是這條大寫縮寫代表的是維持和平作業地區指揮中心這是瓜地馬拉軍方訓練其他國家來的和平維持者的地方這些人為聯合國服務然後他們去像海地和剛果這樣的國家我們有證詞說，在這個軍事基地裡有屍體和墳墓所以我們拿著搜查令去到那裡我們進去兩小時後我們發現84座墳墓中的第一座，裡面總共有533個屍體你想想看和平維持者是在屍體的上面受訓的實在是很諷刺！ 大多數的屍體，面向下，手被綁在背後眼睛被蒙住，各種各樣的傷痕 -這些人在被殺時是完全沒有抵抗力的他們是533個家庭在找的家人我們現在要談談第十五號墳墓第15號墳墓，我們注意到，是一個滿是女人和小孩子的墳墓共63人那讓我們馬上想到我的天，哪曾有這樣的案件？當我1995年到達瓜地馬拉時我聽說有一件在1982年5月14日發生的屠殺軍隊去到那裡，殺掉男人將女人和小孩子們用直升機載到不明地點你猜怎麼樣？這個墳墓裡的衣服和那個地區的服裝吻合也就是他們被帶走的地區這些女人和小孩子們被帶走的地區 所以我們做了一些DNA分析，你猜怎麼了？我們對到了瑪爾丁娜.羅哈斯和曼努爾.陳這兩個人都是在那裡失踪的，現在我們可以證明我們有物證可以證明這個事件的確曾發生以及這些人的確是被帶到了這個基地曼努爾·陳才三歲他的母親將他託付給一個鄰居然後去河邊洗衣服那時軍隊來到那時他被直升機帶走後就沒有人再見到他直到我們在第15號墳墓裡發現他 所以現在用科學，考古學，人類學，和遺傳學我們所做的是我們讓無聲者發出聲音但我們所做的還更多我們實際上在為審判提供證據例如瓜地馬拉去年舉行的種族屠殺的審判利歐斯·蒙特將軍被判種族屠殺罪和80年的監禁 所以我今天來這裡告訴你們這是每個地方都在發生的事就在我們的眼前，在墨西哥發生我們不能再讓它繼續發生了我們現在必須聯合起來並決定我們絕不再讓任何人失踪不再有人失踪好嗎？不再有人失踪！謝謝 （掌聲）
