Talk	en	zh-tw
freeman_hrabowski_4_pillars_of_college_success_in_science	"So I'll be talking about the success of my campus, the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, UMBC, in educating students of all types, across the arts and humanities and the science and engineering areas. What makes our story especially important is that we have learned so much from a group of students who are typically not at the top of the academic ladder — students of color, students underrepresented in selected areas. And what makes the story especially unique is that we have learned how to help African-American students, Latino students, students from low-income backgrounds, to become some of the best in the world in science and engineering. And so I begin with a story about my childhood. We all are products of our childhood experiences. It's hard for me to believe that it's been 50 years since I had the experience of being a ninth grade kid in Birmingham, Alabama, a kid who loved getting A's, a kid who loved math, who loved to read, a kid who would say to the teacher — when the teacher said, ""Here are 10 problems,"" to the class, this little fat kid would say, ""Give us 10 more."" And the whole class would say, ""Shut up, Freeman."" And there was a designated kicker every day. And so I was always asking this question: ""Well how could we get more kids to really love to learn?"" And amazingly, one week in church, when I really didn't want to be there and I was in the back of the room being placated by doing math problems, I heard this man say this: ""If we can get the children to participate in this peaceful demonstration here in Birmingham, we can show America that even children know the difference between right and wrong and that children really do want to get the best possible education."" And I looked up and said, ""Who is that man?"" And they said his name was Dr. Martin Luther King. And I said to my parents, ""I've got to go. I want to go. I want to be a part of this."" And they said, ""Absolutely not."" (Laughter) And we had a rough go of it. And at that time, quite frankly, you really did not talk back to your parents. And somehow I said, ""You know, you guys are hypocrites. You make me go to this. You make me listen. The man wants me to go, and now you say no."" And they thought about it all night. And they came into my room the next morning. They had not slept. They had been literally crying and praying and thinking, ""Will we let our 12-year-old participate in this march and probably have to go to jail?"" And they decided to do it. And when they came in to tell me, I was at first elated. And then all of a sudden I began thinking about the dogs and the fire hoses, and I got really scared, I really did. And one of the points I make to people all the time is that sometimes when people do things that are courageous, it doesn't really mean that they're that courageous. It simply means that they believe it's important to do it. I wanted a better education. I did not want to have to have hand-me-down books. I wanted to know that the school I attended not only had good teachers, but the resources we needed. And as a result of that experience, in the middle of the week, while I was there in jail, Dr. King came and said with our parents, ""What you children do this day will have an impact on children who have not been born."" I recently realized that two-thirds of Americans today had not been born at the time of 1963. And so for them, when they hear about the Children's Crusade in Birmingham, in many ways, if they see it on TV, it's like our looking at the 1863 ""Lincoln"" movie: It's history. And the real question is, what lessons did we learn? Well amazingly, the most important for me was this: That children can be empowered to take ownership of their education. They can be taught to be passionate about wanting to learn and to love the idea of asking questions. And so it is especially significant that the university I now lead, the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, UMBC, was founded the very year I went to jail with Dr. King, in 1963. And what made that institutional founding especially important is that Maryland is the South, as you know, and, quite frankly, it was the first university in our state founded at a time when students of all races could go there. And so we had black and white students and others who began to attend. And it has been for 50 years an experiment. The experiment is this: Is it possible to have institutions in our country, universities, where people from all backgrounds can come and learn and learn to work together and learn to become leaders and to support each other in that experience? Now what is especially important about that experience for me is this: We found that we could do a lot in the arts and humanities and social sciences. And so we began to work on that, for years in the '60s. And we produced a number of people in law, all the way to the humanities. We produced great artists. Beckett is our muse. A lot of our students get into theater. It's great work. The problem that we faced was the same problem America continues to face — that students in the sciences and engineering, black students were not succeeding. But when I looked at the data, what I found was that, quite frankly, students in general, large numbers were not making it. And as a result of that, we decided to do something that would help, first of all, the group at the bottom, African-American students, and then Hispanic students. And Robert and Jane Meyerhoff, philanthropists, said, ""We'd like to help."" Robert Meyerhoff said, ""Why is it that everything I see on TV about black boys, if it's not about basketball, is not positive? I'd like to make a difference, to do something that's positive."" We married those ideas, and we created this Meyerhoff Scholars program. And what is significant about the program is that we learned a number of things. And the question is this: How is it that now we lead the country in producing African-Americans who go on to complete Ph.D.'s in science and engineering and M.D./Ph.D.'s? That's a big deal. Give me a hand for that. That's a big deal. That's a big deal. It really is. (Applause) You see, most people don't realize that it's not just minorities who don't do well in science and engineering. Quite frankly, you're talking about Americans. If you don't know it, while 20 percent of blacks and Hispanics who begin with a major in science and engineering will actually graduate in science and engineering, only 32 percent of whites who begin with majors in those areas actually succeed and graduate in those areas, and only 42 percent of Asian-Americans. And so, the real question is, what is the challenge? Well a part of it, of course, is K-12. We need to strengthen K-12. But the other part has to do with the culture of science and engineering on our campuses. Whether you know it or not, large numbers of students with high SAT's and large numbers of A.P. credits who go to the most prestigious universities in our country begin in pre-med or pre-engineering and engineering, and they end up changing their majors. And the number one reason, we find, quite frankly, is they did not do well in first year science courses. In fact, we call first year science and engineering, typically around America, weed-out courses or barrier courses. How many of you in this audience know somebody who started off in pre-med or engineering and changed their major within a year or two? It's an American challenge. Half of you in the room. I know. I know. I know. And what is interesting about that is that so many students are smart and can do it. We need to find ways of making it happen. So what are the four things we did to help minority students that now are helping students in general? Number one: high expectations. It takes an understanding of the academic preparation of students — their grades, the rigor of the course work, their test-taking skills, their attitude, the fire in their belly, the passion for the work, to make it. And so doing things to help students prepare to be in that position, very important. But equally important, it takes an understanding that it's hard work that makes the difference. I don't care how smart you are or how smart you think you are. Smart simply means you're ready to learn. You're excited about learning and you want to ask good questions. I. I. Rabi, a Nobel laureate, said that when he was growing up in New York, all of his friends' parents would ask them ""What did you learn in school?"" at the end of a day. And he said, in contrast, his Jewish mother would say, ""Izzy, did you ask a good question today?"" And so high expectations have to do with curiosity and encouraging young people to be curious. And as a result of those high expectations, we began to find students we wanted to work with to see what could we do to help them, not simply to survive in science and engineering, but to become the very best, to excel. Interestingly enough, an example: One young man who earned a C in the first course and wanted to go on to med school, we said, ""We need to have you retake the course, because you need a strong foundation if you're going to move to the next level."" Every foundation makes the difference in the next level. He retook the course. That young man went on to graduate from UMBC, to become the first black to get the M.D./Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. He now works at Harvard. Nice story. Give him a hand for that too. (Applause) Secondly, it's not about test scores only. Test scores are important, but they're not the most important thing. One young woman had great grades, but test scores were not as high. But she had a factor that was very important. She never missed a day of school, K-12. There was fire in that belly. That young woman went on, and she is today with an M.D./Ph.D. from Hopkins. She's on the faculty, tenure track in psychiatry, Ph.D. in neuroscience. She and her adviser have a patent on a second use of Viagra for diabetes patients. Big hand for her. Big hand for her. (Applause) And so high expectations, very important. Secondly, the idea of building community among the students. You all know that so often in science and engineering we tend to think cutthroat. Students are not taught to work in groups. And that's what we work to do with that group to get them to understand each other, to build trust among them, to support each other, to learn how to ask good questions, but also to learn how to explain concepts with clarity. As you know, it's one thing to earn an A yourself, it's another thing to help someone else do well. And so to feel that sense of responsibility makes all the difference in the world. So building community among those students, very important. Third, the idea of, it takes researchers to produce researchers. Whether you're talking about artists producing artists or you're talking about people getting into the social sciences, whatever the discipline — and especially in science and engineering, as in art, for example — you need scientists to pull the students into the work. And so our students are working in labs regularly. And one great example that you'll appreciate: During a snowstorm in Baltimore several years ago, the guy on our campus with this Howard Hughes Medical Institute grant literally came back to work in his lab after several days, and all these students had refused to leave the lab. They had food they had packed out. They were in the lab working, and they saw the work, not as schoolwork, but as their lives. They knew they were working on AIDS research. They were looking at this amazing protein design. And what was interesting was each one of them focused on that work. And he said, ""It doesn't get any better than that."" And then finally, if you've got the community and you've got the high expectations and you've got researchers producing researchers, you have to have people who are willing as faculty to get involved with those students, even in the classroom. I'll never forget a faculty member calling the staff and saying, ""I've got this young man in class, a young black guy, and he seems like he's just not excited about the work. He's not taking notes. We need to talk to him."" What was significant was that the faculty member was observing every student to understand who was really involved and who was not and was saying, ""Let me see how I can work with them. Let me get the staff to help me out."" It was that connecting. That young man today is actually a faculty member M.D./Ph.D. in neuroengineering at Duke. Give him a big hand for that. (Applause) And so the significance is that we have now developed this model that is helping us, not only finally with evaluation, assessing what works. And what we learned was that we needed to think about redesigning courses. And so we redesigned chemistry, we redesigned physics. But now we are looking at redesigning the humanities and social sciences. Because so many students are bored in class. Do you know that? Many students, K-12 and in universities, don't want to just sit there and listen to somebody talk. They need to be engaged. And so we have done — if you look at our website at the Chemistry Discovery Center, you'll see people coming from all over the country to look at how we are redesigning courses, having an emphasis on collaboration, use of technology, using problems out of our biotech companies on our campus, and not giving students the theories, but having them struggle with those theories. And it's working so well that throughout our university system in Maryland, more and more courses are being redesigned. It's called academic innovation. And what does all of that mean? It means that now, not just in science and engineering, we now have programs in the arts, in the humanities, in the social sciences, in teacher education, even particularly for women in I.T. If you don't know it, there's been a 79-percent decline in the number of women majoring in computer science just since 2000. And what I'm saying is that what will make the difference will be building community among students, telling young women, young minority students and students in general, you can do this work. And most important, giving them a chance to build that community with faculty pulling them into the work and our assessing what works and what does not work. Most important, if a student has a sense of self, it is amazing how the dreams and the values can make all the difference in the world. When I was a 12-year-old child in the jail in Birmingham, I kept thinking, ""I wonder what my future could be."" I had no idea that it was possible for this little black boy in Birmingham to one day be president of a university that has students from 150 countries, where students are not there just to survive, where they love learning, where they enjoy being the best, where they will one day change the world. Aristotle said, ""Excellence is never an accident. It is the result of high intention, sincere effort and intelligent execution. It represents the wisest option among many alternatives."" And then he said something that gives me goosebumps. He said, ""Choice, not chance, determines your destiny."" Choice, not chance, determines your destiny, dreams and values. Thank you all very much. (Applause)"	我想談論的是本校的成就馬里蘭大學巴爾的摩分校，UMBC它教育各種類型的學生涵蓋藝術、人文、科學及工程領域我們的故事格外重要的原因是我們從這群學生身上學到許多東西他們並非典型的學術佼佼者－例如有色人種學生某些領域中的弱勢學生這個故事格外獨特的原因是我們學會如何幫助非裔美籍學生、拉丁裔學生低收入家庭學生成為世上頂尖的理工人才 因此我打算以我童年的故事作為開場白我們都深受童年經歷影響很難想像這已是50年前的往事當時我是阿拉巴馬州伯明罕的九年級學生一位喜愛拿 A 的孩子一位喜愛數學及閱讀的孩子一位會對老師這麼說的孩子－當老師對全班說 :「作業是10個習題」這名胖小子會說 :「再多給我們10個」全班同學會說 :「閉嘴，Freeman」每天有一位同學負責踹我椅背因此我總是抱著這個疑問：「如何才能使更多孩子真心喜愛學習？」 令人驚訝的是，某個週末，在教會裡我根本不想待在那裡我被安置在房間後方做數學習題我聽見某人說：「如果我們能讓孩子參加伯明罕的和平示威就能讓美國人民瞭解甚至連孩子也明白是非之分孩子確實希望盡可能獲得最好的教育」我抬起頭來，問道 :「那個人是誰？」他們說他是馬丁‧路德‧金恩博士我對父母說 :「我非去不可」「我想去，我想參加」他們說 :「想都別想」 （笑聲） 所以我們發生了一些摩擦坦白說，當時孩子不太跟父母頂嘴於是我說 :「知道嗎，你們都是偽君子」「你們要我上教堂、要我聽話」「那個人希望我參加，你們卻不允許」他們考慮了一整晚隔天早上，他們走進我房間他們徹夜未眠他們整晚哭泣、祈禱和思考「我們該讓12歲兒子參加這場遊行，搞不好進監獄嗎？」他們決定讓我參加當他們進房告訴我時起初我十分興奮接著我突然想起警犬和消防水管之類的我開始害怕起來，嚇得要命我經常與眾人分享的其中一個領悟是有時，當人們做出勇敢的事並不意味著他們真的那麼勇敢只是意味著他們認為這件事十分重要 我想擁有更好的教育我不想只能擁有別人剩下不要的書籍我想知道我就讀的學校裡不僅有好老師，也有我們所需的資源而因為這場經歷我仍在監獄的那週金恩博士對孩子們的父母說 :「你們孩子當天所做的事將影響所有尚未出生的孩子」 我最近赫然發覺，目前三分之二的美國人1963年時尚未出生因此對他們來說當他們耳聞伯明罕兒童十字軍運動時以許多方面來說他們在電視上看見相關報導就像我們觀賞描述1863年的電影《林肯》一樣這已成為歷史真正的問題是，我們得到什麼教訓？令人驚訝地，對我來說，最重要的是 :孩子有權主宰他們的教育我們能夠教他們對於學習及提問充滿熱情 因此這具有十分重要的意義 :我目前領導的大學馬里蘭大學巴爾的摩分校，UMBC成立於我與金恩博士入獄的同年，1963年創立這間機構格外重要的原因是如各位所知，馬里蘭州位於南方坦白說，它是當時本州第一所所有種族學生都能就讀的大學因此黑人、白人及其他人種學生均前來就讀它如同進行了50年的實驗實驗內容是：我國是否可能成立教育機構及大學讓不同背景的人前來就讀、學習學習彼此合作、學習成為領袖學習互相支持？ 對我來說，這個經驗格外重要的原因是我們一開始發現可在藝術人文及社會科學方面下功夫因此我們於60年代開始致力於這項工作我們培育了許多法律及人文領域的人才我們培育出傑出的藝術家Beckett（著名劇作家）是我們的靈感來源本校許多學生進入劇院工作這是一項了不起的成就但我們面臨的問題即美國長久以來面臨的問題－在於學習理工科目黑人學生很難順利畢業但瀏覽這些數據時我發現的是，一般而言大多數學生均無法順利完成這門學科因此我們決定做些能提供幫助的事首先針對弱勢族群－非裔美籍學生、西班牙裔學生 慈善家 Robert 及 Jane Meyerhoff 說「我們願意提供協助」Robert Meyerhoff 說 :「為何當電視上出現黑人男孩時只要跟籃球無關，全是負面的報導？」「我想改變這一點，提供某些正面影響」我們整合所有想法設立 Meyerhoff 獎學金計畫這個計畫讓我們從中學到許多這個計畫讓我們從中學到許多所以最重要的問題是 :我們如何成為引領全國培育非裔美籍學生完成理工博士或醫學博士學位的學校？這是一個大成就請給我一點掌聲，這是一個大成就這是一大成就，確實如此 （掌聲） 其實，大多數人並不瞭解並非僅有少數族裔學生無法順利完成理工學業坦白說，美籍學生之中如果各位不清楚這一點僅有20%最初主修理工科的黑人及西班牙裔美國人順利取得理工學位主修這些學科的白人，僅有32%順利於這些領域畢業而僅有42%亞裔美國人能順利畢業 因此真正的問題是，其中的挑戰為何？其中一部分當然是 K-12 教育（幼稚園到12年級）我們必須加強 K-12 教育但另一部分與校園中的理工文化有關無論各位是否知道許多SAT分數極高的學生許多 A.P.（先修課程）成績極佳的學生就讀我國最負盛名的大學最初主修醫學或工程預科最後卻改變主修科目我們發現主要原因，坦白說在於他們無法順利完成大一科學課程事實上，在美國我們通常稱大一理工課程為「淘汰課程」或「障礙課程」 在座有多少聽眾認識某個最初主修醫學或工程預科的人於一、兩年後改變主修科目？這是美國面臨的挑戰，半數聽眾聽說過我瞭解、我瞭解…令人感興趣的是許多學生其實十分聰明，能克服這個障礙我們需要找到幫助他們的方法 因此我們幫助少數族裔學生的四種方法－現在也對一般學生有所幫助第一點 : 高度期望我們需要瞭解學生的學習狀況他們的成績、寫作業的用心程度考試技巧、學習態度瞭解他們對學業的熱誠及熱情才能做到這一點因此幫助學生達成這個目標十分重要但同樣重要的是他們必須瞭解，用功將使情況改觀我不在乎你多聰明或自以為多聰明聰明僅意味著你準備開始學習學習令你興致勃勃，你渴望提出好問題 諾貝爾獎得主 I.I.Rabi 說他於紐約成長的過程中所有朋友的父母都會問孩子 :「你在學校學了什麼？」當一天結束後他說，相反地，他的猶太裔母親會問 :「Izzy，你今天是否問了好問題？」因此高度期望與好奇心及鼓勵年輕人擁有好奇心有關為了達成高度期望的目標我們開始尋找需要協助的學生看看能提供何種幫助不僅使他們克服理工科障礙也使他們成為最棒、最傑出的學生 以下是個有趣的例子一名在第一學期拿C的小伙子想繼續唸醫學院我們說 :「你必須重修這學期課程」「因為如果你打算進入下個階段，就需要紮實的基礎」「每一門基礎課程對下個階段來說都是關鍵」他重修了那個學期那名小伙子順利從UMBC畢業成為首位獲得賓州大學醫學博士的黑人他現在任職於哈佛大學很棒的故事，也請給他一點掌聲 （掌聲） 第二點、考試成績並非唯一考試成績很重要，但並非最重要的事有位女學生學習態度很好，但考試分數不高但她擁有一項十分重要的特質K-12 教育過程中，她從未缺課過這是對學習的熱誠那名女孩孜孜不倦地學習現在是約翰‧霍普金斯大學醫學博士她擔任教職，擁有精神病學終身教職及神經科學博士學位她和她的指導教授擁有治療糖尿病患者的威而鋼第二用途專利請給她熱烈的掌聲…（掌聲）因此高度期望十分重要 其次是建立學生社群的想法你們都知道，以理工科來說我們一向認為它十分棘手我們並未教導學生以團體的方式學習這就是我們成立學生社群的原因使他們瞭解彼此建立彼此間的信任，使他們互相支持學習如何提出好問題但同時學習如何清楚解釋自己的想法如各位所知，靠自己的力量拿 A 是一回事協助他人取得好成績則是另一回事因此這種責任感將使整個情況改觀因此建立學生社群十分重要 第三個想法是藉由研究人員培育研究人員無論是藉由藝術家培育藝術家或鼓勵學生投入社會科學無論哪門學科－尤其是理工科，如同藝術我們需要科學家帶領學生進入這門領域因此本校學生經常在實驗室裡埋頭苦幹 以下是個很棒的例子幾年前，巴爾的摩暴風雪期間本校接受霍華休斯醫學研究中心資助的研究人員幾天後回實驗室工作發現所有學生都不肯離開實驗室他們佔據了整個實驗室他們在實驗室裡埋頭苦幹對他們來說實驗並非作業，而是生活他們知道自己正進行愛滋病研究他們觀察令人驚嘆的蛋白質設計令人感興趣的是每位學生都專注於這項研究研究人員說 :「沒有什麼比這更棒的事了」 最後，當擁有社群擁有高度期望和作育英才的研究人員後必須擁有好老師願意關懷學生，即使在課堂中我永遠忘不了一位老師對輔導人員說 :「我班上有個小夥子，一位黑人」「似乎對學習興趣缺缺」「根本不寫筆記，我們得跟他談談」重點是老師得觀察每位學生瞭解學生是否確實投入課程然後說 :「看看我能如何帶動他們」「我可以向輔導人員尋求協助」這是一種聯繫那名小伙子已取得醫學博士學位現在任教於杜克大學神經工程系請給他熱烈的掌聲 （掌聲） 因此重點在於我們開發了這種模式不僅協助我們進行評估評估哪些做法行得通我們領悟到的是我們必須考慮重新設計課程因此我們重新設計了化學及物理課程但現在我們致力於重新設計人文及社會科學課程因為太多學生對課程興趣缺缺你們知道嗎？許多學生，包括 K-12 學生及大學生不願只是坐在課堂上聽課他們需要參與 因此我們所做的是－如果各位瀏覽我們的化學探索中心網站將看見全國各地的人前來觀看我們如何重新設計課程強調合作的重要、科技的運用在課程中使用生技公司提出的問題並非僅教導學生理論而是教導他們對理論提出質疑效果非常棒在整個馬里蘭州大學系統中進行重新設計的課程與日俱增 這就是所謂的學術創新 這一切意味著什麼？意味著不僅是理工科我們現在將這個計畫推廣到藝術、人文及社會科學領域推廣到師資教育領域甚至－尤其是IT領域的女性如果各位不知道主修計算機科學的女性人數自從 2000 年以來已下降 79 %我認為將使情況改觀的做法是藉由建立學生社群告訴年輕女性、少數族裔學生及一般學生你們辦得到最重要的是給予他們建立社群的機會讓老師帶領他們進入這個領域我們評估什麼可行或不可行最重要的是，如果學生擁有自我意識不可思議的是，夢想和價值將使整個情況改觀 當我還是身處伯明罕監獄的12歲孩子時我不斷地想 :「不知道我的未來將會如何」我不曾想過這位來自伯明罕的黑人小子某天會成為擁有來自150個國家學生的大學校長那裡的學生不僅是為了獲得學位他們喜愛學習，渴望成為佼佼者他們有天將改變世界 亞里士多德說 :「卓越並非偶然」「它是高度企圖心全力以赴和謹慎實行的結果」「它代表眾多選擇中最明智的選擇」他還說了一些令我起雞皮疙瘩的話他說: 「決定命運的是選擇，而非機會」是選擇，而非機會決定了你的命運、夢想和價值 十分感謝 （掌聲）
