Talk	en	zh-tw
gabriel_barcia_colombo_capturing_memories_in_video_art	I love to collect things. Ever since I was a kid, I've had massive collections of random stuff, everything from bizarre hot sauces from all around the world to insects that I've captured and put in jars. Now, it's no secret, because I like collecting things, that I love the Natural History Museum and the collections of animals at the Natural History Museum in dioramas. These, to me, are like living sculptures, right, that you can go and look at, and they memorialize a specific point of time in this animal's life. So I was thinking about my own life, and how I'd like to memorialize my life, you know, for the ages, and also — (Laughter) — the lives of my friends, but the problem with this is that my friends aren't quite keen on the idea of me taxidermy-ing them. (Laughter) So instead, I turned to video, and video is the next best way to preserve and memorialize someone and to capture a specific moment in time. So what I did was, I filmed six of my friends and then, using video mapping and video projection, I created a video sculpture, which was these six friends projected into jars. (Laughter) So now I have this collection of my friends I can take around with me whenever I go, and this is called Animalia Chordata, from the Latin nomenclature for human being, classification system. So this piece memorializes my friends in these jars, and they actually move around. (Laughter) So, this is interesting to me, but it lacked a certain human element. (Laughter) It's a digital sculpture, so I wanted to add an interaction system. So what I did was, I added a proximity sensor, so that when you get close to the people in jars, they react to you in different ways. You know, just like people on the street when you get too close to them. Some people reacted in terror. (Laughter) Others reacted in asking you for help, and some people hide from you. So this was really interesting to me, this idea of taking video off the screen and putting it in real life, and also adding interactivity to sculpture. So over the next year, I documented 40 of my other friends and trapped them in jars as well and created a piece known as Garden, which is literally a garden of humanity. But something about the first piece, the Animali Chordata piece, kept coming back to me, this idea of interaction with art, and I really liked the idea of people being able to interact, and also being challenged by interacting with art. So I wanted to create a new piece that actually forced people to come and interact with something, and the way I did this was actually by projecting a 1950s housewife into a blender. (Laughter) This is a piece called Blend, and what it does is it actually makes you implicit in the work of art. You may never experience the entire thing yourself. You can walk away, you can just watch as this character stands there in the blender and looks at you, or you can actually choose to interact with it. So if you do choose to interact with the piece, and you press the blender button, it actually sends this character into this dizzying disarray of dishevelment. By doing that, you are now part of my piece. You, like the people that are trapped in my work — (Blender noises, laughter) — have become part of my work as well. (Laughter) (Laughter) (Applause) But, but this seems a bit unfair, right? I put my friends in jars, I put this character, this sort of endangered species character in a blender. But I'd never done anything about myself. I'd never really memorialized myself. So I decided to create a piece which is a self-portrait piece. This is sort of a self-portrait taxidermy time capsule piece called A Point Just Passed, in which I project myself on top of a time card punch clock, and it's up to you. If you want to choose to punch that punch card clock, you actually age me. So I start as a baby, and then if you punch the clock, you'll actually transform the baby into a toddler, and then from a toddler I'm transformed into a teenager. From a teenager, I'm transformed into my current self. From my current self, I'm turned into a middle-aged man, and then, from there, into an elderly man. And if you punch the punch card clock a hundred times in one day, the piece goes black and is not to be reset until the next day. So, in doing so, you're erasing time. You're actually implicit in this work and you're erasing my life. So I like this about interactive video sculpture, that you can actually interact with it, that all of you can actually touch an artwork and be part of the artwork yourselves, and hopefully, one day, I'll have each and every one of you trapped in one of my jars. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)	我喜歡收集東西我小的時候，收集很多不同的東西從世界各地的奇異的辣醬到昆蟲從世界各地的奇異的辣醬到昆蟲被我我抓放在罐子裡 現在，這已不是秘密，我喜歡收集東西我喜歡自然歷史博物館還有在博物館裡不同動物的擬真模型櫥窗這些對我而言就像是活的雕像你可以去那邊瞧瞧它們會紀錄該動物生命中某種生活的當下片刻 因此我開始想到我的生活我要如何記錄我的生活紀錄年輕時光，還有...... （笑聲）我朋友的生活但問題是，我的朋友並不想被製成標本（笑聲） 所以，我轉向影片影片是次好的方式，可以保存並記錄某人的生命並捕捉他某個片刻的生活影片是次好的方式，可以保存並記錄某人的生命並捕捉他某個片刻的生活所以我所做的是，我為6位朋友錄影然後，使用視覺映象原理和影片投射我做出影片的雕像，讓這6位朋友被投影在罐子裡（笑聲）所以現在我收集了這些朋友我可以隨身攜帶這作品名為《Animalia Chordata》其拉丁原文的意思是人類、分類井然的系統所以這個作品將我朋友們放在罐子裡並紀錄他們它們其實可以活動（笑聲） 所以我覺得這個很有趣但卻缺少某些人類的特質（笑聲）這是數位雕像，因此我想要增加互動系統，所以我所做的是增加距離偵測機，所以當你接近罐子裡的人，他們會用不同的方式與你互動就像你太靠近街上的陌生人那樣有些人的反應是覺得很恐怖（笑聲）有些人反應是尋求幫忙有些人會躲起來 所以我覺得這個主意真的很有趣它把影片從螢幕擷取出來放到真實生活加上與雕像的互動因此隔年，我記錄其他40位朋友也把他們困在罐子裡創造一個作品，名為《花園》其實本質是一個「人性花園」 但第一件作品《Animali Chordata》讓我我不斷回想思考一些事情也就是與藝術品互動這個概念我很喜歡人們能與藝術品互動的概念並被此互動所挑戰所以我想創造一件新作品迫使人們來與它互動而我做的方式是將1950年的家庭主婦投影到果汁機裡（笑聲）這件作品叫《混合》它讓你成為這藝術品的一部分你可能永遠無法徹底體驗這件藝術品你可以離開，你可以看著這個人物她也站在裡面看著你或你可以選擇與她互動假使你選擇與她互動你按下「混合」的按紐它會讓這個人物進入頭暈腦脹的混亂狀態當你這麼做，你成為我作品的一部分就像是其他被困在我作品裡的朋友（果汁機的聲音、笑聲）你也成為我作品的一部分（笑聲）（笑聲）（掌聲） 但這看起來有些不公平，對吧我把我朋友放到罐子裡我也將這「瀕臨絕種」的人物放到果汁機但我都沒有對自己做任何處置我從來沒有真正記錄自己所以我決定創造一件自我肖像像是把自己做成標本的作品稱為《剛過的時光》我將我自己投影在打卡鐘的上面然後你可以做決定若你想要打卡你會讓我變老所以我一開始是嬰兒，如果你打卡你會讓我從嬰兒長成幼兒然後從幼兒成為青少年從青少年成為我現在的樣子再從我現在的樣子成中年人然後再成為老人如果你1天內打卡100次這個作品會變黑然後直到隔天才能開始新的循環所以當你這麼做時，你消除了時間你成為這作品的一部分你也消滅了我的生命 所以我喜歡互動式影像雕像你可以真的與它互動你們都可以觸摸一件藝術品並且成為該藝術品的一部分我也希望，有一天，我會把你們每個人都困在我的罐子裡（笑聲） 謝謝（掌聲）
