Talk	en	zh-tw
garik_israelian_what_s_inside_a_star	"I have a very difficult task. I'm a spectroscopist. I have to talk about astronomy without showing you any single image of nebulae or galaxies, etc. because my job is spectroscopy. I never deal with images. But I'll try to convince you that spectroscopy is actually something which can change this world. Spectroscopy can probably answer the question, ""Is there anybody out there?"" Are we alone? SETI. It's not very fun to do spectroscopy. One of my colleagues in Bulgaria, Nevena Markova, spent about 20 years studying these profiles. And she published 42 articles just dedicated to the subject. Can you imagine? Day and night, thinking, observing, the same star for 20 years is incredible. But we are crazy. We do these things. (Laughter) And I'm not that far. I spent about eight months working on these profiles. Because I've noticed a very small symmetry in the profile of one of the planet host stars. And I thought, well maybe there is Lithium-6 in this star, which is an indication that this star has swallowed a planet. Because apparently you can't have this fragile isotope of Lithium-6 in the atmospheres of sun-like stars. But you have it in planets and asteroids. So if you engulf planet or large number of asteroids, you will have this Lithium-6 isotope in the spectrum of the star. So I invested more than eight months just studying the profile of this star. And actually it's amazing, because I got phone calls from many reporters asking, ""Have you actually seen the planet going into a star?"" Because they thought that if you are having a telescope, you are an astronomer so what you are doing is actually looking in a telescope. And you might have seen the planet going into a star. And I was saying, ""No, excuse me. What I see is this one."" (Laughter) It's just incredible. Because nobody understood really. I bet that there were very few people who really understood what I'm talking about. Because this is the indication that the planet went into the star. It's amazing. The power of spectroscopy was actually realized by Pink Floyd already in 1973. (Laughter) Because they actually said that you can get any color you like in a spectrum. And all you need is time and money to make your spectrograph. This is the number one high resolution, most precise spectrograph on this planet, called HARPS, which is actually used to detect extrasolar planets and sound waves in the atmospheres of stars. How we get spectra? I'm sure most of you know from school physics that it's basically splitting a white light into colors. And if you have a liquid hot mass, it will produce something which we call a continuous spectrum. A hot gas is producing emission lines only, no continuum. And if you place a cool gas in front of a hot source, you will see certain patterns which we call absorption lines. Which is used actually to identify chemical elements in a cool matter, which is absorbing exactly at those frequencies. Now, what we can do with the spectra? We can actually study line-of-sight velocities of cosmic objects. And we can also study chemical composition and physical parameters of stars, galaxies, nebulae. A star is the most simple object. In the core, we have thermonuclear reactions going on, creating chemical elements. And we have a cool atmosphere. It's cool for me. Cool in my terms is three or four or five thousand degrees. My colleagues in infra-red astronomy call minus 200 Kelvin is cool for them. But you know, everything is relative. So for me 5,000 degrees is pretty cool. (Laughter) This is the spectrum of the Sun — 24,000 spectral lines, and about 15 percent of these lines is not yet identified. It is amazing. So we are in the 21st century, and we still cannot properly understand the spectrum of the sun. Sometimes we have to deal with just one tiny, weak spectral line to measure the composition of that chemical element in the atmosphere. For instance, you see the spectral line of the gold is the only spectral line in the spectrum of the Sun. And we use this weak feature to measure the composition of gold in the atmosphere of the Sun. And now this is a work in progress. We have been dealing with a similarly very weak feature, which belongs to osmium. It's a heavy element produced in thermonuclear explosions of supernovae. It's the only place where you can produce, actually, osmium. Just comparing the composition of osmium in one of the planet host stars, we want to understand why there is so much of this element. Perhaps we even think that maybe supernova explosions trigger formations of planets and stars. It can be an indication. The other day, my colleague from Berkeley, Gibor Basri, emailed me a very interesting spectrum, asking me, ""Can you have a look at this?"" And I couldn't sleep, next two weeks, when I saw the huge amount of oxygen and other elements in the spectrum of the stars. I knew that there is nothing like that observed in the galaxy. It was incredible. The only conclusion we could make from this is clear evidence that there was a supernova explosion in this system, which polluted the atmosphere of this star. And later a black hole was formed in a binary system, which is still there with a mass of about five solar masses. This was considered as first evidence that actually black holes come from supernovae explosions. My colleagues, comparing composition of chemical elements in different galactic stars, actually discovered alien stars in our galaxy. It's amazing that you can go so far simply studying the chemical composition of stars. They actually said that one of the stars you see in the spectra is an alien. It comes from a different galaxy. There is interaction of galaxies. We know this. And sometimes they just capture stars. You've heard about solar flares. We were very surprised to discover a super flare, a flare which is thousands of millions of times more powerful than those we see in the Sun. In one of the binary stars in our galaxy called FH Leo, we discovered the super flare. And later we went to study the spectral stars to see is there anything strange with these objects. And we found that everything is normal. These stars are normal like the Sun. Age, everything was normal. So this is a mystery. It's one of the mysteries we still have, super flares. And there are six or seven similar cases reported in the literature. Now to go ahead with this, we really need to understand chemical evolution of the universe. It's very complicated. I don't really want you to try to understand what is here. (Laughter) But it's to show you how complicated is the whole story of the production of chemical elements. You have two channels — the massive stars and low-mass stars — producing and recycling matter and chemical elements in the universe. And doing this for 14 billion years, we end up with this picture, which is a very important graph, showing relative abundances of chemical elements in sun-like stars and in the interstellar medium. So which means that it's really impossible to find an object where you find about 10 times more sulfur than silicon, five times more calcium than oxygen. It's just impossible. And if you find one, I will say that this is something related to SETI, because naturally you can't do it. Doppler Effect is something very important from fundamental physics. And this is related to the change of the frequency of a moving source. The Doppler Effect is used to discover extrasolar planets. The precision which we need to discover a Jupiter-like planet around a sun-like star is something like 28.4 meters per second. And we need nine centimeters per second to detect an Earth-like planet. This can be done with the future spectrographs. I, myself, I'm actually involved in the team which is developing a CODEX, high resolution, future generation spectrograph for the 42 meter E-ELT telescope. And this is going to be an instrument to detect Earth-like planets around sun-like stars. It is an amazing tool called astroseismology where we can detect sound waves in the atmospheres of stars. This is the sound of an Alpha Cen. We can detect sound waves in the atmospheres of sun-like stars. Those waves have frequencies in infrasound domain, the sound actually nobody knows, domain. Coming back to the most important question, ""Is there anybody out there?"" This is closely related to tectonic and volcanic activity of planets. Connection between life and radioactive nuclei is straightforward. No life without tectonic activity, without volcanic activity. And we know very well that geothermal energy is mostly produced by decay of uranium, thorium, and potassium. How to measure, if we have planets where the amount of those elements is small, so those planets are tectonically dead, there cannot be life. If there is too much uranium or potassium or thorium, probably, again, there would be no life. Because can you imagine everything boiling? It's too much energy on a planet. Now, we have been measuring abundance of thorium in one of the stars with extrasolar planets. It's exactly the same game. A very tiny feature. We are actually trying to measure this profile and to detect thorium. It's very tough. It's very tough. And you have to, first you have to convince yourself. Then you have to convince your colleagues. And then you have to convince the whole world that you have actually detected something like this in the atmosphere of an extrasolar planet host star somewhere in 100 parsec away from here. It's really difficult. But if you want to know about a life on extrasolar planets, you have to do this job. Because you have to know how much of radioactive element you have in those systems. The one way to discover about aliens is to tune your radio telescope and listen to the signals. If you receive something interesting, well that's what SETI does actually, what SETI has been doing for many years. I think the most promising way is to go for biomarkers. You can see the spectrum of the Earth, this Earthshine spectrum, and that is a very clear signal. The slope which is coming, which we call a Red Edge, is a detection of vegetated area. It's amazing that we can detect vegetation from a spectrum. Now imagine doing this test for other planets. Now very recently, very recently, I'm talking about last six, seven, eight months, water, methane, carbon dioxide have been detected in the spectrum of a planet outside the solar system. It's amazing. So this is the power of spectroscopy. You can actually go and detect and study a chemical composition of planets far, far, far from solar system. We have to detect oxygen or ozone to make sure that we have all necessary conditions to have life. Cosmic miracles are something which can be related to SETI. Now imagine an object, amazing object, or something which we cannot explain when we just stand up and say, ""Look, we give up. Physics doesn't work."" So it's something which you can always refer to SETI and say, ""Well, somebody must be doing this, somehow."" And with the known physics etc, it's something actually which has been pointed out by Frank Drake, many years ago, and Shklovsky. If you see, in the spectrum of a planet host star, if you see strange chemical elements, it can be a signal from a civilization which is there and they want to signal about it. They want to actually signal their presence through these spectral lines, in the spectrum of a star, in different ways. There can be different ways doing this. One is, for instance, technetium is a radioactive element with a decay time of 4.2 million years. If you suddenly observe technetium in a sun-like star, you can be sure that somebody has put this element in the atmosphere, because in a natural way it is impossible to do this. Now we are reviewing the spectra of about 300 stars with extrasolar planets. And we are doing this job since 2000 and it's a very heavy project. We have been working very hard. And we have some interesting cases, candidates, so on, things which we can't really explain. And I hope in the near future we can confirm this. So the main question: ""Are we alone?"" I think it will not come from UFOs. It will not come from radio signals. I think it will come from a spectrum like this. It is the spectrum of a planet like Earth, showing a presence of nitrogen dioxide, as a clear signal of life, and oxygen and ozone. If, one day, and I think it will be within 15 years from now, or 20 years. If we discover a spectrum like this we can be sure that there is life on that planet. In about five years we will discover planets like Earth, around sun-like stars, the same distance as the Earth from the Sun. It will take about five years. And then we will need another 10, 15 years with space projects to get the spectra of Earth-like planets like the one I showed you. And if we see the nitrogen dioxide and oxygen, I think we have the perfect E.T. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我有一個困難的任務。我是個光譜學家。我要講天文學可是我不要給你們看任何一張有星雲或銀河的圖片因為我的工作是光譜學我從來不看實際圖像。可是我要試著說服你們光譜學圖片是真的能夠改變世界的。光譜學或許可以回答下面這樣的問題：「真的有外星人嗎?」是只有我們嗎?SETI(尋找外太空星球智慧生命計畫)做光譜學不是很有趣。 我一個在保加利亞的同事Naviana Markova花了大約二十年的時間研究這些資料。她發表了42篇文章就只討論這個主題。你可以想像嗎？二十年來日以繼夜地思考、觀察同樣的星星，太不可思議了。可是我們是瘋狂的。我們做這樣的事情。(笑聲) 我還沒那麼瘋狂。我花了八個月研究這些資料。因為我發現一個很小的對稱性在主恆星的資料裡。然後我想，或許這個星星含有鋰6(Lithium-6)，這暗示著這個星星可能曾經吞噬過另一個星球。因為顯然的像鋰6(Lithium-6)這樣不穩定的同位素不可能存在於恆星的環境中。但是在星球和小行星中都含有這個東西。所以如果吞噬了行星和很多個小行星，那麼就會有鋰6(Lithium-6)這個同位素在行星的光譜中。所以我花了超過八個月的時間就是來研究這個星星資料中的鋰線。 而且事實上是非常驚人的，因為我接到很多記者的電話問我「你真的有看到一個行星進入一個星星嗎？」因為他們以為可以有一個望遠鏡你是天文學家而你做的事情就是透過望遠鏡看。然後你有可能有看到一個行星進入一個星星。然後我會說：「不，對不起。我看到的是這個。」(笑聲)這是很不可思議的。因為沒有人真正了解。我賭只有非常少數的人真正知道我在講什麼。因為這正是代表著一個行星進入一個星星。這是驚人的。 光譜學的能耐事實上是在1973年被Pink Floyd發現的。(笑聲)因為他們真的曾經說過你可以在光譜中得到任何你想要的顏色。你需要的只是時間和金錢來製作你的光譜。這是個這個星球上解析度最高、最精準的光譜儀器，叫做HARPS，是用來偵測外太陽系行星和星星大氣層中的聲波。 我們怎麼得到光譜呢？我想你們從學校教得物理得知事實上是把白光分成其他顏色。而且如果你有液態熱體，他會產生連續光譜。熱氣只釋放出線條，不會連續。如果你把冷氣團放在熱源前面，你會看到特定的圖樣，我們稱為吸收光譜。這就是我們鑑定冷質中化學組成的方法，就是吸收一樣的頻率。 現在，光譜能做什麼呢？我們可以研究天體的視相速度。我們也可以研究星星、星系、星雲的化學組成及物理參數。星星是做簡單的物體。在中心有一個熱核能反應製造化學元素。而我們有一個涼的大氣層。這對我來說是涼的。涼在我的定義中是三或四或五千度。我的同事研究紅外線天文學他說對他們來說負兩百凱爾文是涼。但是你們知道，所有事情都是相對的。對我來說，五千度是蠻涼的。(笑聲) 這是太陽的光譜。兩萬四千條光譜線而且大約百分之十五的線還沒被鑑定出來。這是很驚人的。我們在二十一世紀，但我們仍然沒有辦法正確了解太陽的光譜。有時候我們必須從一條又小又微弱的光譜線中找出氣層中的化學成分組成。譬如說你看到金的光譜線是太陽光譜裡面唯一的一條線。我們就用這個微薄的特色來測量太陽大氣層中金的含量。 現在這是個正在進行的研究。我們在研究鋨的時候也同樣面對類似的微弱信號。鋨是一個重金屬元素在超級新星的熱合爆炸中產生。事實上這是唯一可以產生鋨的狀況。單單只是比較其中一個主行星的鋨成分，我們想要了解為什麼有這麼多這種元素。或許我們更會想或許超級新星的爆炸會導致行星及星星的誕生。這有可能是個暗示。 那天我在柏克萊的同事Gibor Basri用電郵傳了一張非常有趣的光譜圖給我，問我：「你可以看看這個嗎？」然後我接下來兩個禮拜都沒有睡覺，當我看到有大量的氧氣和其他元素出現在星星的光譜中，我知道沒有其他星系跟這個一樣。這是非常驚人的。我們唯一可以從中得到的確切結論是這代表著在這個系統中曾經有個超級新星爆炸，且汙染了這個星星的大氣層。然後在這二原體系下一個黑洞產生了，它現在還在那裡且集中了五個太陽的質量。這被認為是第一個證明黑洞是從超級新星爆炸來的的證據。 我的同事在比較不同星系的化學成分組成，他發現我們星系有外來星星。能夠只從星星的化學成分資料得到這麼多訊息是很驚人的。他們還說其中一顆在光譜上看到的星星事實上是外來星。它是從其他星系來的。星系之間是有相互作用的。我們知道這個。有時候他們捕捉星星。 你們有聽過太陽耀斑。我們很驚訝地發現一個太陽耀斑，一個比我們現在看到的太陽威力大幾十億倍的耀斑。在我們星系中的一個雙星系叫做FH Leo，我們發現了這個超級耀斑。後來我們去研究光譜線來看看有沒有其他奇怪的事情。我們發現所有事情都是正常的。這些星星就跟太陽一樣正常。年紀什麼都是正常的。所以是個謎。超級耀斑是到現在仍然存在的謎。而且在文獻上大約有六到七個類似的例子。 現在我們繼續往下走，我們很需要了解這個宇宙的化學演化。這很複雜。我沒有很希望你們試圖去了解。(笑聲)可是現在是要給你們看整個化學元素的產生有多們複雜。你有兩個管道：一個高質量星星和一個低質量星星正在產生和回收宇宙間的質體和化學元素。一百四十億年來一直這麼做，我們就有了這張圖片。這是張非常重要的圖表，顯示了恆星及星際介質中各種化學成分的相對含量。 也就是說是不可能找到一個物體其硫含量是矽含量的十倍，或是鈣含量比氧含量多五倍。就是不可能。而且如果你真的找到這樣的物體我會說這一定跟SETI(尋找外太空智慧)有關。因為自然界中是不可能的。都普勒效應是基礎物理學中非常重要的。而且這個跟移動源頭的頻率有關。都普勒效應是用來發現太陽系外的行星。 要找到一個像木星的行星，我們需要的精準度是大約每秒28.4公尺。要發現一個像地球的行星，我們需要每秒九公分。這個在未來的光譜研究上可以做到。我，我自己有餐與一個團隊，在研發一種規則，高解析度，新一代的的光譜法可以用在42米E-ELT望遠鏡上。這會是一個未來可以探測在似太陽星星附近像地球這樣的行星。這是個驚人的工具叫做星震學。我們可以用來探測星星大氣層中的聲波。 這是半人馬座阿爾法星的聲音。我們可以探測到恆星大氣層中的聲波。這些波有頻率，在亞聲區塊，就是沒有人知道是什麼聲音的區塊。回到最重要的問題：「外面到底有沒有人？」這跟行星的地質構造及火山活動是非常有關係的。生命跟放射性原子核中間的關係是很直接的。沒有地質構造的改變或是沒有火山活動就沒有生命。我們知道地熱大部分來自鈾、釷和鉀的衰變。 怎麼測量？如果我們有一個行星，這些元素的含量非常少，就是說沒有地質構造的改變，那麼不可能有生命。如果有太多鈾或鉀或釷，那麼，或許，也不會有生命。因為你可以想像所有東西都在沸騰嗎？那對一個行星來說是太多能量的。現在我們正在測量一個外星系行星的釷含量。這是完全一樣的。一個很小的特徵。 我們真的在試圖測量這個資料去探測釷。這很困難。這很困難。而且你必須先說服你自己。然後必須說服你的同事們。然後你必須說服全世界你真的有在百秒差距外一個外星系主行星的大氣層中探測到這樣的東西。這非常艱難。但是如果你想要知道外太陽系行星上的生命，你就必須做這種工作。因為你需要知道在這些系統中有多少放射性物質。 一個可以發現外星人的方法，是調整收音機望遠鏡且傾聽信號。如果你收到有趣的東西，事實上SETI就是這麼做，SETI已經好幾年都在這麼做了。我認為最有希望的方法是找生物印記。你可以看到地球的光譜，這個地球反照光譜，有非常清楚的信號。這個傾斜的地方我們稱之為紅邊(Red Edge)，是代表著植被區。我們可以從光譜針測到植被是非常驚人的。現在想像對其他行星做這樣的測試。 現在很近期，非常近期，我是在講說大約這六、七、八個月，水、甲烷、二氧化碳在一個外星系行星的光譜上被偵測到了。這很驚人。這就是光譜學的厲害。你可以真的去偵測和研究一個離太陽系很遠很遠的行星的化學組成。我們必須偵測到氧氣或是臭氧才能確定我們有生命存在必須的條件。 宇宙奇蹟是一些跟SETI有關的現象。現在想像一個物體，一個驚奇的物體，或是一個我們無法解釋的東西我們只能站起來然後說：「好吧！我們放棄，物理不適用。」所以這是你們可以永遠歸因於SETI然後說：「嗯，總有人用某種方法在做這個。」 以現知的物理，這事實上是個已經被Frank Drake在好幾年前指出的事情。如果你看到一個主行星的光譜，如果你看到奇怪的化學元素，這有可能是文明的信號。文明存在而且他們想要示意。他們想要示意他們的存在，利用光譜線，用不同的方式表現在星星的光譜中。 有不同種方式可以達成這個目的。其中一個方式是用鎝元素，一個大約42萬年才會衰退的放射性元素。如果你突然在一個類太陽星星的大氣層中發現鎝元素，你可以確定有人把他放在那的，因為自然界中不可能發生。現在我們正在研究大約300個外星系行星的光譜。我們從2000年開始這麼做，這是個很龐大的計劃。我們很認真地做，而且我們也有些非常有趣的例子，一些我們無法解釋的例子。我希望在不遠的將來我們可以確認這個。 所以主要的問題是：「我們是孤獨的嗎？」我覺得不會從UFO中得到答案。我覺得不會從收音訊號中得到答案。我覺得會從這類的光譜中得到答案。這是個類地行星的光譜顯示著氮氧化物，明確代表生命存在，和氧和臭氧。如果哪一天，而且我覺得大約再十五年或二十年我們發現一個像這樣的光譜，那麼我們可以確定那顆行星上有生命。大約再五年我們會發現其他類地行星在類太陽恆星附近，距離大約與地球和太陽間距相似。這大概需要五年。然後我們需要十、十五年利用太空計劃來取得像我剛剛給你們看的類地行星的光譜。然後如果我們看到氮氧化物或氧，我想我們就有E.T.(外星人)了。非常謝謝你們。(掌聲)
