Talk	en	zh-tw
garrett_lisi_on_his_theory_of_everything	"Whoa, dude. (Laughter) Check out those killer equations. Sweet. Actually, for the next 18 minutes I'm going to do the best I can to describe the beauty of particle physics without equations. It turns out there's a lot we can learn from coral. A coral is a very beautiful and unusual animal. Each coral head consists of thousands of individual polyps. These polyps are continually budding and branching into genetically identical neighbors. If we imagine this to be a hyperintelligent coral, we can single out an individual and ask him a reasonable question. We can ask how exactly he got to be in this particular location compared to his neighbors — if it was just chance, or destiny, or what? Now, after admonishing us for turning the temperature up too high, he would tell us that our question was completely stupid. These corals can be kind of mean, you see, and I have surfing scars to prove that. But this polyp would continue and tell us that his neighbors were quite clearly identical copies of him. That he was in all these other locations as well, but experiencing them as separate individuals. For a coral, branching into different copies is the most natural thing in the world. Unlike us, a hyperintelligent coral would be uniquely prepared to understand quantum mechanics. The mathematics of quantum mechanics very accurately describes how our universe works. And it tells us our reality is continually branching into different possibilities, just like a coral. It's a weird thing for us humans to wrap our minds around, since we only ever get to experience one possibility. This quantum weirdness was first described by Erwin Schrödinger and his cat. The cat likes this version better. (Laughter) In this setup, Schrödinger is in a box with a radioactive sample that, by the laws of quantum mechanics, branches into a state in which it is radiated and a state in which it is not. (Laughter) In the branch in which the sample radiates, it sets off a trigger that releases poison and Schrödinger is dead. But in the other branch of reality, he remains alive. These realities are experienced separately by each individual. As far as either can tell, the other one doesn't exist. This seems weird to us, because each of us only experiences an individual existence, and we don't get to see other branches. It's as if each of us, like Schrödinger here, are a kind of coral branching into different possibilities. The mathematics of quantum mechanics tells us this is how the world works at tiny scales. It can be summed up in a single sentence: Everything that can happen, does. That's quantum mechanics. But this does not mean everything happens. The rest of physics is about describing what can happen and what can't. What physics tells us is that everything comes down to geometry and the interactions of elementary particles. And things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced. Now I'll go ahead and describe how we know about these particles, what they are and how this balance works. In this machine, a beam of protons and antiprotons are accelerated to near the speed of light and brought together in a collision, producing a burst of pure energy. This energy is immediately converted into a spray of subatomic particles, with detectors and computers used to figure out their properties. This enormous machine — the Large Hadron Collider at CERN in Geneva — has a circumference of 17 miles and, when it's operating, draws five times as much power as the city of Monterey. We can't predict specifically what particles will be produced in any individual collision. Quantum mechanics tells us all possibilities are realized. But physics does tell us what particles can be produced. These particles must have just as much mass and energy as is carried in by the proton and antiproton. Any particles more massive than this energy limit aren't produced, and remain invisible to us. This is why this new particle accelerator is so exciting. It's going to push this energy limit seven times beyond what's ever been done before, so we're going to get to see some new particles very soon. But before talking about what we might see, let me describe the particles we already know of. There's a whole zoo of subatomic particles. Most of us are familiar with electrons. A lot of people in this room make a good living pushing them around. (Laughter) But the electron also has a neutral partner called the neutrino, with no electric charge and a very tiny mass. In contrast, the up and down quarks have very large masses, and combine in threes to make the protons and neutrons inside atoms. All of these matter particles come in left- and right-handed varieties, and have antiparticle partners that carry opposite charges. These familiar particles also have less familiar second and third generations, which have the same charges as the first but have much higher masses. These matter particles all interact with the various force particles. The electromagnetic force interacts with electrically charged matter via particles called photons. There is also a very weak force called, rather unimaginatively, the weak force ... (Laughter) that interacts only with left-handed matter. The strong force acts between quarks which carry a different kind of charge, called color charge, and come in three different varieties: red, green and blue. You can blame Murray Gell-Mann for these names — they're his fault. Finally, there's the force of gravity, which interacts with matter via its mass and spin. The most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces. These four different forces interact with matter according to the corresponding charges that each particle has. A particle that hasn't been seen yet, but we're pretty sure exists, is the Higgs particle, which gives masses to all these other particles. The main purpose of the Large Hadron Collider is to see this Higgs particle, and we're almost certain it will. But the greatest mystery is what else we might see. And I'm going to show you one beautiful possibility towards the end of this talk. Now, if we count up all these different particles using their various spins and charges, there are 226. That's a lot of particles to keep track of. And it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles. But if we plot them out according to their charges, some beautiful patterns emerge. The most familiar charge is electric charge. Electrons have an electric charge, a negative one, and quarks have electric charges in thirds. So when two up quarks and a down quark are combined to make a proton, it has a total electric charge of plus one. These particles also have antiparticles, which have opposite charges. Now, it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge. If we spread out the hypercharge and weak charge and plot the charges of particles in this two-dimensional charge space, the electric charge is where these particles sit along the vertical direction. The electromagnetic and weak forces interact with matter according to their hypercharge and weak charge, which make this pattern. This is called the unified electroweak model, and it was put together back in 1967. The reason most of us are only familiar with electric charge and not both of these is because of the Higgs particle. The Higgs, over here on the left, has a large mass and breaks the symmetry of this electroweak pattern. It makes the weak force very weak by giving the weak particles a large mass. Since this massive Higgs sits along the horizontal direction in this diagram, the photons of electromagnetism remain massless and interact with electric charge along the vertical direction in this charge space. So the electromagnetic and weak forces are described by this pattern of particle charges in two-dimensional space. We can include the strong force by spreading out its two charge directions and plotting the charges of the force particles in quarks along these directions. The charges of all known particles can be plotted in a four-dimensional charge space, and projected down to two dimensions like this so we can see them. Whenever particles interact, nature keeps things in a perfect balance along all four of these charge directions. If a particle and an antiparticle collide, it creates a burst of energy and a total charge of zero in all four charge directions. At this point, anything can be created as long as it has the same energy and maintains a total charge of zero. For example, this weak force particle and its antiparticle can be created in a collision. In further interactions, the charges must always balance. One of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an antineutrino, and these three still add to zero total charge. Nature always keeps a perfect balance. So these patterns of charges are not just pretty. They tell us what interactions are allowed to happen. And we can rotate this charge space in four dimensions to get a better look at the strong interaction, which has this nice hexagonal symmetry. In a strong interaction, a strong force particle, such as this one, interacts with a colored quark, such as this green one, to give a quark with a different color charge — this red one. And strong interactions are happening millions of times each second in every atom of our bodies, holding the atomic nuclei together. But these four charges corresponding to three forces are not the end of the story. We can also include two more charges corresponding to the gravitational force. When we include these, each matter particle has two different spin charges, spin-up and spin-down. So they all split and give a nice pattern in six-dimensional charge space. We can rotate this pattern in six dimensions and see that it's quite pretty. Right now, this pattern matches our best current knowledge of how nature is built at the tiny scales of these elementary particles. This is what we know for certain. Some of these particles are at the very limit of what we've been able to reach with experiments. From this pattern we already know the particle physics of these tiny scales — the way the universe works at these tiny scales is very beautiful. But now I'm going to discuss some new and old ideas about things we don't know yet. We want to expand this pattern using mathematics alone, and see if we can get our hands on the whole enchilada. We want to find all the particles and forces that make a complete picture of our universe. And we want to use this picture to predict new particles that we'll see when experiments reach higher energies. So there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges, which is not very symmetric, could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken — similar to how the Higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism. In order to do this, we need to introduce new forces with new charge directions. When we introduce a new direction, we get to guess what charges the particles have along this direction, and then we can rotate it in with the others. If we guess wisely, we can construct the standard charges in six charge dimensions as a broken symmetry of this more perfect pattern in seven charge dimensions. This particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by Pati and Salam in 1973. When we look at this new unified pattern, we can see a couple of gaps where particles seem to be missing. This is the way theories of unification work. A physicist looks for larger, more symmetric patterns that include the established pattern as a subset. The larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen. This unification model predicts the existence of these two new force particles, which should act a lot like the weak force, only weaker. Now, we can rotate this set of charges in seven dimensions and consider an odd fact about the matter particles: the second and third generations of matter have exactly the same charges in six-dimensional charge space as the first generation. These particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges. They sit on top of one another in the standard charge space. However, if we work in eight-dimensional charge space, then we can assign unique new charges to each particle. Then we can spin these in eight dimensions and see what the whole pattern looks like. Here we can see the second and third generations of matter now, related to the first generation by a symmetry called ""triality."" This particular pattern of charges in eight dimensions is actually part of the most beautiful geometric structure in mathematics. It's a pattern of the largest exceptional Lie group, E8. This Lie group is a smooth, curved shape with 248 dimensions. Each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape. One small part of this E8 shape can be used to describe the curved space-time of Einstein's general relativity, explaining gravity. Together with quantum mechanics, the geometry of this shape could describe everything about how the universe works at the tiniest scales. The pattern of this shape living in eight-dimensional charge space is exquisitely beautiful, and it summarizes thousands of possible interactions between these elementary particles, each of which is just a facet of this complicated shape. As we spin it, we can see many of the other intricate patterns contained in this one. And with a particular rotation, we can look down through this pattern in eight dimensions along a symmetry axis and see all the particles at once. It's a very beautiful object, and as with any unification, we can see some holes where new particles are required by this pattern. There are 20 gaps where new particles should be, two of which have been filled by the Pati-Salam particles. From their location in this pattern, we know that these new particles should be scalar fields like the Higgs particle, but have color charge and interact with the strong force. Filling in these new particles completes this pattern, giving us the full E8. This E8 pattern has very deep mathematical roots. It's considered by many to be the most beautiful structure in mathematics. It's a fantastic prospect that this object of great mathematical beauty could describe the truth of particle interactions at the smallest scales imaginable. And this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new. In 1623, Galileo wrote this: ""Nature's grand book, which stands continually open to our gaze, is written in the language of mathematics. Its characters are triangles, circles and other geometrical figures, without which it is humanly impossible to understand a single word of it; without these, one is wandering around in a dark labyrinth."" I believe this to be true, and I've tried to follow Galileo's guidance in describing the mathematics of particle physics using only triangles, circles and other geometrical figures. Of course, when other physicists and I actually work on this stuff, the mathematics can resemble a dark labyrinth. But it's reassuring that at the heart of this mathematics is pure, beautiful geometry. Joined with quantum mechanics, this mathematics describes our universe as a growing E8 coral, with particles interacting at every location in all possible ways according to a beautiful pattern. And as more of the pattern comes into view using new machines like the Large Hadron Collider, we may be able to see whether nature uses this E8 pattern or a different one. This process of discovery is a wonderful adventure to be involved in. If the LHC finds particles that fit this E8 pattern, that will be very, very cool. If the LHC finds new particles, but they don't fit this pattern — well, that will be very interesting, but bad for this E8 theory. And, of course, bad for me personally. (Laughter) Now, how bad would that be? Well, pretty bad. (Laughter) But predicting how nature works is a very risky game. This theory and others like it are long shots. One does a lot of hard work knowing that most of these ideas probably won't end up being true about nature. That's what doing theoretical physics is like: there are a lot of wipeouts. In this regard, new physics theories are a lot like start-up companies. As with any large investment, it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out. But in science, if something isn't working, you have to toss it out and try something else. Now, the only way to maintain sanity and achieve happiness in the midst of this uncertainty is to keep balance and perspective in life. I've tried the best I can to live a balanced life. (Laughter) I try to balance my life equally between physics, love and surfing — my own three charge directions. (Laughter) This way, even if the physics I work on comes to nothing, I still know I've lived a good life. And I try to live in beautiful places. For most of the past ten years I've lived on the island of Maui, a very beautiful place. Now, it's one of the greatest mysteries in the universe to my parents how I managed to survive all that time without engaging in anything resembling full-time employment. (Laughter) I'm going to let you in on that secret. This was a view from my home office on Maui. And this is another, and another. And you may have noticed that these beautiful views are similar, but in slightly different places. That's because this used to be my home and office on Maui. (Laughter) I've chosen a very unusual life. But not worrying about rent allowed me to spend my time doing what I love. Living a nomadic existence has been hard at times, but it's allowed me to live in beautiful places and keep a balance in my life that I've been happy with. It allows me to spend a lot of my time hanging out with hyperintelligent coral. But I also greatly enjoy the company of hyperintelligent people. So I'm very happy to have been invited here to TED. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Stay here one second. (Applause) I probably understood two percent of that, but I still absolutely loved it. So I'm going to sound dumb. Your theory of everything — Garrett Lisi: I'm used to coral. CA: That's right. The reason it's got a few people at least excited is because, if you're right, it brings gravity and quantum theory together. So are you saying that we should think of the universe, at its heart — that the smallest things that there are, are somehow an E8 object of possibility? I mean, is there a scale to it, at the smallest scale, or ...? GL: Well, right now the pattern I showed you that corresponds to what we know about elementary particle physics — that already corresponds to a very beautiful shape. And that's the one that I said we knew for certain. And that shape has remarkable similarities — and the way it fits into this E8 pattern, which could be the rest of the picture. And these patterns of points that I've shown for you actually represent symmetries of this high-dimensional object that would be warping and moving and dancing over the space-time that we experience. And that would be what explains all these elementary particles that we see. CA: But a string theorist, as I understand it, explains electrons in terms of much smaller strings vibrating — I know, you don't like string theory — vibrating inside it. How should we think of an electron in relation to E8? GL: Well, it would be one of the symmetries of this E8 shape. So what's happening is, as the shape is moving over space-time, it's twisting. And the direction it's twisting as it moves is what particle we see. So it would be — CA: The size of the E8 shape, how does that relate to the electron? I feel like I need that for my picture. Is it bigger? Is it smaller? GL: As far as we know, electrons are point particles, so this would be going down to the smallest possible scales. So the way these things are explained in quantum field theory is, all possibilities are expanding and developing at once. And this is why I use the analogy to coral. And — in this way, the way that E8 comes in is it will be as a shape that's attached at each point in the space-time. And, as I said, the way the shape twists — the directional along which way the shape is twisting as it moves over this curved surface — is what the elementary particles are, themselves. So through quantum field theory, they manifest themselves as points and interact that way. I don't know if I'll be able to make this any clearer. (Laughter) CA: It doesn't really matter. It's evoking a kind of sense of wonder, and I certainly want to understand more of this. But thank you so much for coming. That was absolutely fascinating. (Applause)"	看看這個嚇人的方程式 酷在接下來的18分鐘裡 我會盡自己所能在不用方程式的前提之下 讓大家了解粒子學的美妙我們發現到 我們能從珊瑚身上學到很多東西珊瑚是種奇特及美妙的動物每一個珊瑚群都由成千上萬的珊瑚組成這些珊瑚會不停的生長及分裂變成基因相同的群體想像如果這些珊瑚擁有很高的智商我們就能抓出其中的一個珊瑚 並且問他一個簡單的問題你為什麼會剛好出現在這而不是其他的地方是剛好 命運 還是其他的原因 在我們收到全球暖化的警告之後他回答我們 這問題真是愚蠢極了這珊瑚有時候還真不客氣我衝浪時所受的傷就是證明這珊瑚繼續回答我們他旁邊的這些珊瑚都是跟他一模一樣的複製品他跟其他珊瑚聚在一起成為一個整體只是表現為不同的個體而已對於珊瑚來說 分裂出不同個體是再自然不過的事情了 和我們不同的是 高智商的珊瑚已具備了理解量子力學的能力量子力學透過數學方法準確的描述宇宙的運行模式它告訴我們 現實世界和珊瑚一樣也具有不同可能性的發展我們人類很難理解這個問題因為每個人只能經歷一種人生這種量子力學的奇特現象最早是由薛丁格和他的貓提出來的貓更喜歡這版本(笑聲)在他的實驗裡 薛丁格待在一個具有放射物質的空間中根據量子力學原理 放射物質有兩種可能情況可能衰變或者不衰變(笑聲)如果粒子發生衰變的話會激發連鎖反應 釋放毒氣 薛丁格必死無疑但如果薛丁格遇到另一種情況 他就能活下來每個個體都只能經歷其中的一種情形而另一種可能對他來說並不存在 這對我們來說很難理解 因為我們每一個人都只能了解自己所處的狀態而感覺不到其他狀態我們和薛丁格一樣，如同那些被分化成不同的狀態的珊瑚量子力學用數學的方法告訴我們這就是微小世界的法則用一句話來下結論所有一切可能發生的事情 都在發生這就是量子力學但是這並不代表任何事情都會發生物理學的其他方向則能夠描述哪些可以發生哪些不可以物理學告訴我們 一切都可用幾何學解釋只有在這些相互作用都剛剛好平衡的時候事情才有可能發生 現在我將講說明我們對這些粒子的認識它們是什麼 而它們的平衡機制如何運作在此裝置中 質子和反質子都被加速到接近光速的速度然後相撞 產生出一股巨大的純能量這些能量迅速轉化以亞原子形式噴射出來檢測儀和電腦將對他們的性質加以分析這個位於日內瓦歐核中心的巨型機器名叫大型強子對撞機周長有17英里運轉時 對撞機消耗的能量相當於蒙特雷全市用電量的5倍我們無法精確的猜測哪些粒子會在每次對撞後產生量子力學告訴我們一切皆有可能但物理學告訴我們哪些粒子有可能產生這些產生的粒子的數量和能量都必須擁有質子和反質子的相互平衡任何數量超過了這限制的粒子都不會出現，因此我們不會看到這個新型粒子加速器令人無比興奮的原因就在於它達到的能量極限是以前的7倍多所以我們很快會看到新的粒子 在討論未知粒子之前讓我先介紹下那些已知的粒子亞原子多得都可以組成一間動物園了大部分人都知道電子在場的各位的工作有不少都和它密切相關(笑聲)電子有個不帶電的夥伴叫做中子不帶電 且有著極小的質量相反 上夸克和下夸克有較大的質量把三個夸克合在一起就得到原子裏的質子和中子這些粒子分為兩類 左旋和右旋它們都有攜帶相反電荷的反粒子這些熟悉的粒子還有我們不太熟悉的第二代和第三代 電量和第一代相同但質量更高粒子通過基本力相互作用帶電粒子通過光子傳遞電磁力相互作用還有一種十分微弱的力很直接的叫做弱力這個力只和左旋的物質相作用夸克以色荷為載體通過強力相互作用色荷分三種 紅 綠 藍這都是默里‧蓋爾曼的錯名字是他是取的最後 就是重力 是有質量的物體作用於物體 的傳遞 最重要的是每一種力都對應有不同的載荷四種力通過各自粒子所攜帶的載荷和物質發生作用有一種我們沒見過但確信存在的粒子稱為希格斯粒子 它使所有粒子有了質量大型強子對撞機的主要目的是發現希格斯粒子 我們確信可以做到但最大的奧秘在於我們還能看到什麼我會在演講最後向你們展示這美好的可能性 現在 如果我們用不同的自旋和載荷計算所有可能的粒子 共有226種數目大得驚人大自然擁有這麼多的基本粒子是多奇妙的一件事阿但如果我們按他們各自的載荷把他們畫出來會出現一些美麗的圖案我們最熟悉的載荷是電荷電子擁有一個負電荷而夸克擁有1/3的電荷由2個上夸克和1個下夸克生成的質子有一個正電荷粒子還有極性相反的反粒子我們發現電荷實際上是另兩種載荷的結合超荷和弱荷如果我們把超荷和弱荷分開在這個二度載荷空間上畫出粒子的載荷電荷就在這些粒子的垂直方向上電磁力和弱力通過超荷和弱荷與物質相互作用而形成這一型式我們稱之為電弱統一模型於1967年提出 因為希格斯粒子的緣故 我們只對電荷有瞭解卻不知道超荷和弱荷左邊的希格斯粒子質量很大破壞了電弱型式的對稱性通過給弱子較大的質量使弱力更加弱由於大量的希格斯粒子在水準方向分佈產生電磁力的光子仍然沒有質量而且在載荷空間中和電荷相互作用所以電磁力和弱力在這個二度空間中通過粒子載荷的型式表示出來我們可以把強力沿兩個載荷的方向表示出來然後將載荷用夸克形式沿這兩個方向畫出來所有已知粒子的載荷可以在四度空間中畫出來 然後投影到二度空間 以便我們能觀察到 無論粒子如何作用 自然會在這四個載荷方向上保持完美的平衡一個粒子如果和它的反粒子相撞 會產生能量四個電荷方向的載荷疊加變為零這樣 只要保持能量相同和載荷總量為零可以產生任何物質比如說 這個弱子和它的反粒子可以在碰撞中產生在之後的相互作用中 載荷必須保持平衡一個弱子可以衰退成一個電子和一個反中微子而這三個的總載荷仍然是零大自然總是會保持完美的平衡所以這些電荷的型式不僅漂亮還告訴我們 什麼樣的相互作用是符合規則的如果在四度空間中旋轉載荷空間可以從更好的角度觀察強相互作用也就是這個美麗的對稱六角形結構在強相互作用中 強子 比如說這個會和有色夸克相互作用 比如這個綠夸克這樣的作用會讓夸克帶上不同的色荷 比如這個紅夸克強相互作用每秒鐘會在我們身體的每個原子裏發生上百萬次使原子核保持一體 但是和三種力相對應的這四種載荷還不是終點我們還可以根據重力導入兩個載荷導入後 每個粒子會有自旋向上和自旋向下兩種自旋載荷若把它們全部分開 會在六度載荷空間中形成漂亮的圖案在六度空間中將這個圖案進行旋轉我們會發現它十分漂亮這個圖案把我們已知的自然界在微觀小世界中的粒子組成完全呈現出來了這是我們能確定的其中的一些粒子在實驗中很難看到從這個規則中 我們瞭解了微小世界的粒子組成宇宙在這種微小世界中的運行模式是異常美麗的 接下去 我想講一下關於未知領域的一些新的老觀念我們把這個型式規則 用數學方法進一步擴展看看能不能俯瞰全貌我們希望找到構成宇宙的所有種類的粒子和力量然後在獲得更高能量進行實驗之前用這幅規則預測新的粒子 量子物理學的舊觀念認為這個不對稱的載荷圖案源自於一個更完美的圖案跟希格斯粒子使電弱圖案分裂產生電磁力是一個道理因此 我們要導入含有新的載荷方向的新的力量在導入新方向的時候 我們要猜測在這個方向上粒子帶有什麼樣的載荷然後我們就能讓它和其他粒子一起旋轉如果猜對的話 我們就可以在六度載荷空間中構造標準載荷集 作為更完美的七度載荷空間圖案的非對稱子集 這種粒子選擇方法由帕蒂和薩拉姆在1973年提出它是大統一理論的一種探索在我們看到這個新的合成圖案時發現有些空間應該有粒子 卻空出來了這是統一理論的研究方式物理學家將已有的結構作為子集探索更大 更對稱的結構這個更大的結構可以讓我們預測那些實際存在 卻沒有被觀察到的粒子這個統一模型推測出了這兩種新子對應的粒子 它們應該和弱力很相似但是效果更弱 現在可以在七度空間中旋轉這個載荷集同時考慮一下關於粒子的奇怪現象:在六度載荷空間中物質的第二代和第三代 擁有和第一代物質擁有和第一代物質相同的載荷這些粒子通過對應的六個載荷無法一一識別在標準載荷空間上 他們會彼此疊加然而 在八度載荷空間中我們可以賦予每一個粒子唯一的新載荷然後在八度空間中旋轉看看整體的圖案是什麼樣的這裏 我們可以看到物質的第二代和第三代通過一種叫“三重性”對稱和第一代相關聯 在八度中的這個特殊的載荷圖案是數學中最為漂亮的幾何結構之一這是最大的例外型李群E8的圖案李群是光滑曲線形的248維空間圖案的每一點都能在這個極其複雜而又美麗的£圖案中找到對稱點E8中的一小部分可以用來描述愛因斯坦廣義相對論中用來解釋重力的扭曲時空這個幾何形狀和量子力學宇宙怎麼用最小的尺度運作描述萬物之理 而在八度載荷空間中的這個圖案顯得異常美麗它還囊括了上千種這些基本粒子之間可能的相互作用 每一種作用只是這個複雜形狀的一個平面 轉動它時 可以看到包含其中的很多錯綜複雜的圖案通過某種旋轉 我們可以在八度空間沿一個對稱軸方向觀察這個圖案並且一次看盡所有粒子這是個很美的結構 和其他統一理論一樣我們可以看到在這個圖案中有一些空格需要新的粒子來填補在這有20個空格需要新粒子來填補其中兩個已有帕蒂和薩拉姆粒子填補從圖案的位置我們知道這些新粒子和希格斯粒子一樣存在於純量場中但是它們擁有色荷 且和強力相互作用填入這些新粒子使圖案完整讓我們得到完整的E8 這個E8圖案有著深厚的數學根基在數學界中它被很多人認為是最美麗的結構有人預言 這個擁有無比數學美的結構有人預言 這個擁有無比數學美的結構能夠以我們可以想像到的最小尺寸描述粒子相互作用的真相而這個數學描述自然的理論並不是新的1623年 伽利略說大自然這本一直展示在我們面前的書是用數學的語言寫的它由三角形 圓形和其他幾何形狀組成沒有了這些東西 在人力所及的範圍裏我們根本不能瞭解沒有了這些 我們會迷失在黑暗的迷宮中 我相信這是真的我曾試過按照伽利略的指導只用三角形圓形和其他的幾何形狀去描述量子物理的數學性當我和其他物理學家在研究這些東西時數學就像一個黑暗的迷宮但是我們確信 數學的核心是純粹美麗的幾何學與量子力學一起 形成的數學把我們的宇宙描述為一個在成長的E8珊瑚同時粒子在每個可能的位置相互作用展現出美麗的圖案借助大型強子對撞機之類的新型機器圖案得到進一步豐富 我們可能看到到底E8圖案還是另一種圖案反映了自然的本質 這個探索過程是一個奇妙的探險如果對撞機發現了符合E8圖案的粒子那就太酷了如果對撞機發現了新粒子 但不符合這個圖案那會非常有趣 雖然對E8理論不利而且 在一定程度上 對我不利(笑聲)那到底有多不利呢？恩 那是十分的不利啊(笑聲) 但推測大自然的運作總是很冒險的這個理論和其他這類型的理論都是在下大注即使花很多精力取得很多成果也不一定能得出自然的真理理論物理就是這樣失敗是很常見的這樣看來 新物理理論就像新開的公司一樣巨大投資後 對那些失敗的嘗試情感上總會難以割捨但在科學界 如果沒有用就要丟掉它 再試試別的 而在這些不確定中唯一能夠保持理智並獲得幸福的方法是在生活中保持平衡和明察事理我已經盡可能保持生活的平衡了(笑聲)我試著在物理 愛情和衝浪中尋找平衡就是我三個載荷的方向(笑聲)這樣 就算我的物理研究沒有任何成果我依然擁有美好的生活我試著在風景優美的地方居住過去十年 我大部分時間都住在毛伊島一個超級漂亮的地方現在 我父母最大的疑惑是我是怎樣在沒有一個全職工作的情況下活下來的(笑聲) 我要告訴你們這個秘密這是我在毛伊島上的家庭辦公室的照片這些也是你們可能注意到這些照片似曾相似 但背景稍有不同因為這曾經是我在毛伊島的家和辦公室(笑聲)我選擇了一種特別的生活不擔心房租 讓我把時間花在喜歡做的事情上流浪的生活方式有時會很艱難也正因此 我才能可生活在美麗的地方維持我所喜歡的平衡的生活我可以花大量的時間在超級聰明的珊瑚上同時我也很樂意和超級聰明的人打交道所以我很高興能被邀請到這兒演講謝謝大家(掌聲) 我想我只懂了百分之二的部分但是我絕對喜歡它 所以我想獻一下醜你的萬物理論 我喜歡稱之為珊瑚理論 好吧 它讓人們興奮的原因是如果你是對的，那就把重力和量子理論結合了起來所以你是不是說我們應該瞭解在宇宙中那些最微小的事物有可能就是E8模型我是說 你心裏是不是有一個最小的尺寸還是 嗯，剛剛給你們看得圖案規則就是我們所知的基本粒子物理而且它已經是一個很漂亮的圖案了那個就是我所說的我們很確信的地方而這個形狀和E8有著明顯的相似處在剩下的圖片中幾乎和E8合為一體我給你們看得這些點狀圖案實際上代表著更高維物體的對稱性這些圖案在我們生活的時空中蜷曲，移動和舞蹈這就解釋了所有的我們所看見的基本粒子 我們所看見的基本粒子弦理論家會在更小的弦震動裏解釋電子我知道你不喜歡弦理論但我們該怎樣理解在E8模型中的電子 不 它將會是這個E8型狀對稱性的一部分所以實際上 當這個形狀在時空中游走它會扭曲 而它扭曲的方向就是我們所看到的粒子 所以就是 E8形狀的大小是怎麼樣和電子相聯繫的呢我自己有些想像不出來它會大些還是小些 嗯　就我們所知電子是點粒子所以這個會讓我們看到最小的尺寸所以在量子場論中，這些東西的解釋方式是所有的可能性都在同時展開發展這也是我為什麼拿珊瑚作類比因為這樣，E8的進入方式是一個可以連接時空中每一點的形狀還有　想我所說的　形狀在經過這個曲線的表面時它的扭曲的方式和其的扭曲方向是基本粒子它們自己在量子場理論中 粒子與粒子間和點與點間一樣，相互作用我不知道我能不能解釋得更加清楚了(笑聲) 沒關係它已經激起了我們的興趣我確定我想瞭解的更多太感謝你的光臨了。你的演說太吸引人了(掌聲)
