Talk	en	zh-tw
garth_lenz_images_of_beauty_and_devastation	"The world's largest and most devastating environmental and industrial project is situated in the heart of the largest and most intact forest in the world, Canada's boreal forest. It stretches right across Northern Canada, in Labrador, it's home to the largest remaining wild caribou herd in the world: the George River caribou herd, numbering approximately 400,000 animals. Unfortunately, when I was there, I couldn't find one of them, but you have the antlers as proof. All across the boreal, we're blessed with this incredible abundance of wetlands. Wetlands, globally, are one of the most endangered ecosystems. They're absolutely critical ecosystems, they clean air, they clean water, they sequester large amounts of greenhouse gases, and they're home to a huge diversity of species. In the boreal, they are also the home where almost 50 percent of the 800 bird species found in North America migrate north to breed and raise their young. In Ontario, the boreal marches down south to the north shore of Lake Superior. And these incredibly beautiful boreal forests were the inspiration for some of the most famous art in Canadian history, the Group of Seven were very inspired by this landscape, and so the boreal is not just a really key part of our natural heritage, but also an important part of our cultural heritage. In Manitoba, this is an image from the east side of Lake Winnipeg, and this is the home of the newly designated UNESCO Cultural Heritage site. In Saskatchewan, as across all of the boreal, home to some of our most famous rivers, an incredible network of rivers and lakes that every school-age child learns about, the Peace, the Athabasca, the Churchill here, the Mackenzie, and these networks were the historical routes for the voyageur and the coureur de bois, the first non-aboriginal explorers of Northern Canada that, taking from the First Nations people, used canoes and paddled to explore for a trade route, a Northwest Passage for the fur trade. In the North, the boreal is bordered by the tundra, and just below that, in Yukon, we have this incredible valley, the Tombstone Valley. And the Tombstone Valley is home to the Porcupine caribou herd. Now you've probably heard about the Porcupine caribou herd in the context of its breeding ground in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Well, the wintering ground is also critical and it also is not protected, and is potentially, could be potentially, exploited for gas and mineral rights. The western border of the boreal in British Columbia is marked by the Coast Mountains, and on the other side of those mountains is the greatest remaining temperate rainforest in the world, the Great Bear Rainforest, and we'll discuss that in a few minutes in a bit more detail. All across the boreal, it's home for a huge incredible range of indigenous peoples, and a rich and varied culture. And I think that one of the reasons why so many of these groups have retained a link to the past, know their native languages, the songs, the dances, the traditions, I think part of that reason is because of the remoteness, the span and the wilderness of this almost 95 percent intact ecosystem. And I think particularly now, as we see ourselves in a time of environmental crisis, we can learn so much from these people who have lived so sustainably in this ecosystem for over 10,000 years. In the heart of this ecosystem is the very antithesis of all of these values that we've been talking about, and I think these are some of the core values that make us proud to be Canadians. This is the Alberta tar sands, the largest oil reserves on the planet outside of Saudi Arabia. Trapped underneath the boreal forest and wetlands of northern Alberta are these vast reserves of this sticky, tar-like bitumen. And the mining and the exploitation of that is creating devastation on a scale that the planet has never seen before. I want to try to convey some sort of a sense of the size of this. If you look at that truck there, it is the largest truck of its kind on the planet. It is a 400-ton-capacity dump truck and its dimensions are 45 feet long by 35 feet wide and 25 feet high. If I stand beside that truck, my head comes to around the bottom of the yellow part of that hubcap. Within the dimensions of that truck, you could build a 3,000-square-foot two-story home quite easily. I did the math. So instead of thinking of that as a truck, think of that as a 3,000-square-foot home. That's not a bad size home. And line those trucks / homes back and forth across there from the bottom all the way to the top. And then think of how large that very small section of one mine is. Now, you can apply that same kind of thinking here as well. Now, here you see — of course, as you go further on, these trucks become like a pixel. Again, imagine those all back and forth there. How large is that one portion of a mine? That would be a huge, vast metropolitan area, probably much larger than the city of Victoria. And this is just one of a number of mines, 10 mines so far right now. This is one section of one mining complex, and there are about another 40 or 50 in the approval process. No tar sands mine has actually ever been denied approval, so it is essentially a rubber stamp. The other method of extraction is what's called the in situ. And here, massive amounts of water are superheated and pumped through the ground, through these vasts networks of pipelines, seismic lines, drill paths, compressor stations. And even though this looks maybe not quite as repugnant as the mines, it's even more damaging in some ways. It impacts and fragments a larger part of the wilderness, where there is 90 percent reduction of key species, like woodland caribou and grizzly bears, and it consumes even more energy, more water, and produces at least as much greenhouse gas. So these in situ developments are at least as ecologically damaging as the mines. The oil produced from either method produces more greenhouse gas emissions than any other oil. This is one of the reasons why it's called the world's dirtiest oil. It's also one of the reasons why it is the largest and fastest-growing single source of carbon in Canada, and it is also a reason why Canada is now number three in terms of producing carbon per person. The tailings ponds are the largest toxic impoundments on the planet. Oil sands — or rather, I should say tar sands — oil sands is a PR-created term so that the oil companies wouldn't be trying to promote something that sounds like a sticky tar-like substance that's the world's dirtiest oil. So they decided to call it oil sands. The tar sands consume more water than any other oil process, three to five barrels of water are taken, polluted and then returned into tailings ponds, the largest toxic impoundments on the planet. SemCrude, just one of the licensees, in just one of their tailings ponds, dumps 250,000 tons of this toxic gunk every single day. That's creating the largest toxic impoundments in the history of the planet. So far, this is enough toxin to cover the face of Lake Erie a foot deep. And the tailings ponds range in size up to 9,000 acres. That's two-thirds the size of the entire island of Manhattan. That's like from Wall Street at the southern edge of Manhattan up to maybe 120th Street. So this is one of the larger tailings ponds. This might be, what? I don't know, half the size of Manhattan. And you can see in the context, it's just a relatively small section of one of 10 mining complexes and another 40 to 50 on stream to be approved soon. And of course, these tailings ponds — well, you can't see many ponds from outer space and you can see these, so maybe we should stop calling them ponds — these massive toxic wastelands are built unlined and on the banks of the Athabasca River. And the Athabasca River drains downstream to a range of aboriginal communities. In Fort Chipewyan, the 800 people there, are finding toxins in the food chain, this has been scientifically proven. The tar sands toxins are in the food chain, and this is causing cancer rates up to 10 times what they are in the rest of Canada. In spite of that, people have to live, have to eat this food in order to survive. The incredibly high price of flying food into these remote Northern aboriginal communities and the high rate of unemployment makes this an absolute necessity for survival. And not that many years ago, I was lent a boat by a First Nations man, and he said, ""When you go out on the river, do not under any circumstances eat the fish. It's carcinogenic."" And yet, on the front porch of that man's cabin, I saw four fish. He had to feed his family to survive. And as a parent, I just can't imagine what that does to your soul. And that's what we're doing. The boreal forest is also perhaps our best defense against global warming and climate change. The boreal forest sequesters more carbon than any other terrestrial ecosystem. And this is absolutely key. So what we're doing is, we're taking the most concentrated greenhouse gas sink — twice as much greenhouse gases are sequestered in the boreal per acre than the tropical rainforests. And what we're doing is we're destroying this carbon sink, turning it into a carbon bomb. And we're replacing that with the largest industrial project in the history of the world, which is producing the most high-carbon greenhouse-gas emitting oil in the world. And we're doing this on the second largest oil reserves on the planet. This is one of the reasons why Canada, originally a climate change hero — we were one of the first signatories of the Kyoto Accord. Now we're the country that has full-time lobbyists in the European Union and Washington DC, threatening trade wars when these countries talk about wanting to bring in positive legislation to limit the import of high-carbon fuels, of greenhouse gas emissions, anything like this, at international conferences, whether they're in Copenhagen or Cancun, international conferences on climate change, we're the country that gets the dinosaur award every single day, as being the biggest obstacle to progress on this issue. Just 70 miles downstream is the world's largest freshwater delta, the Peace-Athabasca Delta, the only one at the juncture of all four migratory flyways. This is a globally significant wetland, perhaps the greatest on the planet. Incredible habitat for half the bird species you find in North America, migrating here. And also the last refuge for the largest herd of wild bison, and also, of course, critical habitat for another whole range of other species. But it too is being threatened by the massive amount of water being drawn from the Athabasca, which feeds these wetlands, and also the incredible toxic burden of the largest toxic unlined impoundments on the planet, which are leaching in to the food chain for all the species downstream. So as bad as all that is, things are going to get much worse — much, much worse. This is the infrastructure as we see it about now. This is what's planned for 2015. And you can see here the Keystone Pipeline, which would take tar sands raw down to the Gulf Coast, punching a pipeline through the agricultural heart of North America, of the United States, and securing the contract with the dirtiest fuel in the world by consumption of the United States, and promoting a huge disincentive to a sustainable clean-energy future for America. Here you see the route down the Mackenzie valley. This would put a pipeline to take natural gas from the Beaufort Sea through the heart of the third largest watershed basin in the world, and the only one which is 95 percent intact. And building a pipeline with an industrial highway would change forever this incredible wilderness, which is a true rarity on the planet today. So the Great Bear Rainforest is just over the hill there, within a few miles, we go from these dry boreal forests of 100-year-old trees, maybe 10 inches across, and soon, we're in the coastal temperate rainforest, rain-drenched, 1,000-year-old trees, 20 feet across, a completely different ecosystem. And the Great Bear Rainforest is generally considered to be the largest coastal temperate rainforest ecosystem in the world. Some of the greatest densities of some of the most iconic and threatened species on the planet. And yet there's a proposal, of course, to build a pipeline to take huge tankers, 10 times the size of the Exxon Valdez, through some of the most difficult-to-navigate waters in the world, where only just a few years ago, a BC ferry ran aground. When one of these tar sands tankers, carrying the dirtiest oil, 10 times as much as the Exxon Valdez, eventually hits a rock and goes down, we're going to have one of the worst ecological disasters this planet has ever seen. And here we have the plan out to 2030. What they're proposing is an almost four-times increase in production, and that would industrialize an area the size of Florida. In doing so, we'll be removing a large part of our greatest carbon sink and replacing it with the most high greenhouse-gas emission oil in the future. The world does not need any more tar mines. The world does not need any more pipelines to wed our addiction to fossil fuels. And the world certainly does not need the largest toxic impoundments to grow and multiply and further threaten the downstream communities. And let's face it, we all live downstream in an era of global warming and climate change. What we need, is we all need to act to ensure that Canada respects the massive amounts of freshwater that we hold in this country. We need to ensure that these wetlands and forests that are our best and greatest and most critical defense against global warming are protected, and we are not releasing that carbon bomb into the atmosphere. And we need to all gather together and say no to the tar sands. And we can do that. there is a huge network all over the world, fighting to stop this project. And I quite simply think that this is not something that should be decided just in Canada. Everyone in this room, everyone across Canada, everyone listening to this presentation has a role to play and, I think, a responsibility. Because what we do here is going to change our history, it's going to color our possibility to survive, and for our children to survive and have a rich future. We have an incredible gift in the boreal, an incredible opportunity to preserve our best defense against global warming, but we could let that slip away. The tar sands could threaten not just a large section of the boreal. It compromises the life and the health of some of our most underprivileged and vulnerable people, the aboriginal communities that have so much to teach us. It could destroy the Athabasca Delta, the largest and possibly greatest freshwater delta in the planet. It could destroy the Great Bear Rainforest, the largest temperate rainforest in the world. And it could have huge impacts on the future of the agricultural heartland of North America. I hope that you will all, if you've been moved by this presentation, join with the growing international community to get Canada to step up to its responsibilities, to convince Canada to go back to being a climate change champion instead of a climate change villain, and to say no to the tar sands, and yes to a clean energy future for all. Thank you so much. (Applause)"	世界上最具規模和毀滅性的環境與工業工程計劃正坐落於世上最大保護最完整的森林中心，加拿大的北方針葉林。它橫跨加拿大北方地區，在拉布拉多省（Labrador），是世界上現存最大的野生馴鹿群喬治河馴鹿群的家園，總計大約有四十萬隻馴鹿。遺憾的是，當我在那兒時，一隻都看不到，但你們看，有鹿角為證。 整片針葉林裡，我們擁有極為豐富的濕地資源。濕地是地球上最瀕危的生態系統之一，它們毫無疑問是關鍵的生態系統，它們清潔空氣，淨化水源，它們吸收大量的溫室氣體，它們也是擁有大片生物多樣性的家園。在針葉林裡頭，濕地也是近一半北美洲的八百種鳥類動物的家，這些鳥類爲了繁殖，向北美大陸的北邊遷徙，餵養幼鳥。 在安大略省（Ontario），針葉林向南延伸直到蘇比利爾湖（Lake Superior）的北岸，這些極其美麗的針葉林是加拿大歷史上很多著名藝術的創作靈感發源地，這片風景就曾深深鼓舞了七人畫派（ Group of Seven）。所以針葉林不單單是我們自然遺產重要的一部份，它也是我們文化遺產的關鍵之一。 這是一張在馬尼托巴省（Manitoba）溫尼伯湖（Lake Winnipeg）東邊的照片，這也是聯合國教科文組織最新指定的文化遺址所在地。在薩斯喀徹溫省（Saskatchewan），與針葉林裡一樣，是若干我們最熟知的河流發源地，這是一個絕佳的、交織了河流和湖泊的網絡，也是每一個學齡兒童所熟知的和平河、阿薩巴斯卡河、邱吉爾河與馬更些河，這些網絡是過去歷史中船夫和樵夫的必經之路。它們是第一個北加拿大非原住民探險家，在原住民的幫助之下，用獨木舟划槳發現的一個交易通道，這是一個皮毛交易的西北通道。 在北邊，針葉林與苔原接壤，在它下面一點，在育空地區（Yukon），我們有如此令人屏息的山谷，墓碑谷（Tombstone Valle）。墓碑谷是豪豬馴鹿（Porcupine caribou）群的居住地。現在，你可能聽說過豪豬馴鹿群，將北極國家野生動物保護區做為繁殖的地方。嗯，越冬地也是很關鍵的，它也沒有受到保護，很有可能會被用來開發天然氣和礦物。 在不列顛哥倫比亞省（British Columbia）的西部邊界，以其海岸山脈最為著名，而在那些山脈的另外一邊是世上最大溫帶雨林，大熊雨林，這個部分我們等會兒會詳細討論。 在整片針葉林裡，住著許許多多的原住民，蘊含多種不同的豐富文化。我認為許多族群還保留著其與過去的聯繫了解他們的母語、歌曲、舞蹈、和傳統的原因是，在我看來，有部份是因為這裡地處偏遠，以及幅員廣大近 95% 保持完好的生態系統。我覺得，特別是現在，我們已知身處環境危機中，我們能從在這個生態系統中居住了上萬年之久的居民身上學到很多。 在這個生態系統的正中心你可以看到和我們所談的價植觀對立的畫面。而我認為這些價值正是讓我們加拿大人引以為傲的核心價值。這是亞伯達省（Alberta）焦油沙，它是在沙烏地阿拉伯外世上最大的石油資源。被困鎖在針葉林和北亞伯達省的濕地之下的是這一大片又黏、焦油狀的瀝青，對它的開採、開發將造成這個星球從未見過的大規模毀害。 我試著說明這個破壞的規模，如果你看看在那兒的卡車，它是世上這類卡車中最大的，這是可以受重四百噸的自卸車，它的尺寸有 45 英尺長，35 英尺寬，25 英尺高，如果我站在那輛卡車旁邊，我的頭大概只到黃色輪轂罩底部的位置。以那個卡車的尺寸，你可以輕易地蓋一棟兩層總面積三千平方英尺的房子，我計算過了。所以與其把它想成是一輛卡車，不如把它看作是一棟三千平方英尺的房子，這個房子可不小，把那些卡車或房子來來回回地排成排，從最下面開始一路排到最上面，然後設想一下這礦井裡的一小部份是涵蓋了多大的面積。 現在，你也可以把同樣的思維方式套用在這上面。這裡，你可以看到——當然，你越向遠處看，這些卡車就越像一個個像素。再一次，假設那些卡車在那兒來來去去。這個礦井的一部份會有多大？那會是一個巨大的、廣闊的大都市地區，可能比維多利亞市（Victoria）還要大很多，而這只是許多礦井中的一個。迄今為止，這裡有十個礦井，這是一個礦井的一部份，另外還有四十或五十個礦井正等著批准動工。事實上，焦油砂礦的開採計劃從來沒有被拒絕批准過，所以基本上這個審批過程只是做做樣子而已。 另一種採礦方法稱為原位法，在這裡，大量的水被高溫加熱，經由這些管線、震測線、鑽取路線和壓縮站所組成的廣大網絡從地底下抽取出來，雖然這看起來不像礦坑那麼令人厭惡，但在某些方面，它更具有破壞性。它不但衝擊、拆碎這片荒野，使林地馴鹿和灰熊這些關鍵物種少了九成，而且，這會消耗更多能源，更多水資源，同時製造許多的溫室氣體。所以原位法的開發方式和礦井一樣，都會破壞生態。 無論是由這兩種方法中哪一種所生產出來的石油都會比其它的油排放更多的溫室氣體，這就是為什麼石油會被叫作世上最髒的油的原因之一，這也是爲什麽石油是加拿大最大也增長最快的碳排放來源的原因之一。這也是為什麼加拿大的人均碳排放量排名世界第三的原因。殘渣池是地球上最大的有毒蓄水池，油沙，又稱瀝青砂，「油砂」一詞為波多黎各所創的詞，這可以讓石油公司不用試著去推銷像瀝青一樣黏稠的東西，那是世界上最髒的油，所以他們決定稱之為油砂。焦油沙的生產過程比其他油還要耗水。這個過程要耗三到五桶的水，被汙染過後的水再流回殘渣池，也就是地球上最大的有毒蓄水池。 SemCrude 是其中一家領有許可證的公司，單單一個殘渣池每天就倒入二十五萬噸的有毒物質，就這樣產生了史上最大的有毒蓄水池，到目前為止，它的毒素足以覆蓋伊利湖（Lake Eerie）表面一英尺深，而且這些殘渣池的面積高達九千英畝之大，這相當於三分之二個曼哈頓島，就像是從曼哈頓南端的華爾街到 120 街的大約距離。所以這絕對是——這是其中一個較大的殘渣池，這也許是半個曼哈頓島大吧，我也不太清楚，你可以在前面的內容中看到這僅是十個礦井中的冰山一角而已，還有其他四五十個即將投入生產。 可以肯定的是，這些殘渣池——嗯，你是無法從外太空看到有多少池子，但是你可以看得到這些池子，也許我們不該再稱它們池子了——這些廣大且錯綜的有毒濕地未經防護阻隔，遍布於阿薩巴斯卡河邊，而阿薩巴斯卡河水流向下游流到原住民居住的社區。在奇標揚堡（Fort Chippewa）那兒有八百人在食物鏈裡發現毒素，這已經獲得科學證實了。焦油沙的毒素已經進入食物鏈，這會讓他們比其他加拿大人擁有高出十倍的罹患癌症的比率。 即便如此，人們還是必須生活，必須吃這些食物維生。高成本的空運食物運到偏遠的原住民社區，和高失業率使得這些有毒的食物成為必要的生存所需。幾年前，一位原住民男子借我一艘船他說：「划船出去時，不管在任何情況下，都不要吃魚這魚含有致癌物質。」然而，在那男子住處的門廊，我看到四條魚，他必須養活一家。身為父親的我，無法想像這情形對你心靈會造成什麼影響，這就是我們幹的好事。 針葉林或許也是我們對抗全球暖化以及氣候變遷的最佳防禦。比起其他的陸地生態系統，針葉林還能吸附更多碳，因此針葉林非常重要。所以我們所做的是讓最集中的溫室氣體降低針葉林每英畝所吸收的溫室氣體是熱帶雨林的兩倍。而我們現在所做的是破壞碳匯，讓碳匯變成碳炸彈。我們把它變成世界史上最大的工業工程，這工程正在製造最多碳排放以及最多溫室氣體的油。而我們在世上第二大的儲油地做這事。 這就是加拿大這個原本的氣候英雄會變成現在這樣的原因——我們是第一個簽署京都議定書的國家之一，但現在我們在歐盟和美國有專職的說客，我們以貿易戰威脅它們，在它們想立法限制那些會排放溫室氣體的高碳燃料進口之際。在國際會議裡，不管是哥本哈根或是坎昆的國際氣候變遷會議，我們都得到恐龍獎，成為每天促使這個議題進展的最大阻礙 就在下游七十英里，有世上最大的淡水三角洲，阿薩巴斯卡河三角洲，它是唯一一個地處四個候鳥遷徙路徑交會的三角洲這是地球上極為重要的濕地，也許是這星球上最大的濕地。它是一個絕妙的棲息地，北美二分之一的鳥類會遷移到這裡。這也是最大野生野牛群最後的避難所，此外，當然，這裡也是其他許多物種的重要棲息地。但是，它也受到從阿薩巴斯卡河大量流水的威脅，這些水滋養這片濕地，而這些水，同時也是地球上最大量且曝露劇毒在外的污染水源，它滲透到所有下游的物種的食物鏈中。 壞的是，事情變得更糟、更糟了。壞的是，事情變得更糟、更糟了。我們現在看到的是基礎設施。這基礎設施是為了 2015 年所計劃的，你可以在這裡看到拱心石石油管道，這管道把焦油沙帶到墨西哥灣沿岸，構建一條管道穿過北美洲與美國的農業中心，並且確保由美國來消費世界上最骯髒的燃料。此舉大大地阻礙了美國未來擁有永續、潔淨的能源。 在這裡，你看到通往麥肯齊谷（Mackenzie Valle）的路。這裡會放置一個天然氣管道從波弗特海（Beaufort Sea）通過世上第三大流域的盆地中心，這是唯一一個仍然保持了 95% 完好的流域。建造一個有工業用公路的管線將永遠改變這美麗的曠野，這片曠野是地球上真正的珍稀之地。 大熊雨林就在小山那兒只須幾英里我們就可以從這些樹幹也許有 10 英寸寬的百歲寒溫帶林木群很快地來到沿海的溫帶雨林，被雨水澆灌了上千年的樹木，樹幹有 20 英尺寬，這是一個完全不同的生態系統。一般來說，大熊雨林被認為是世上最大的沿海溫帶雨林生態系統，一個擁有最大密度星球上最具指標性、瀕危物種的森林，然而，卻有一項要修建管道的提案。要讓巨型油輪，比埃克森．伐耳迪茲還大十倍的巨型油輪，通過一個世上最難航行的水域之一，在那兒，僅僅在幾年前，一艘卑詩渡輪擱淺在那。當其中一艘油砂油輪容量有埃克森．伐耳迪茲的十倍大載著最骯髒的油，萬一撞到岩石、下沉，我們將會面臨這個星球上最嚴重的生態災難之一。 這裡我們有了到 2030 年的計畫。他們的提議是增加近乎四倍的生產，而那將工業化這個有佛羅里達州大小的地區，爲了這樣做，我們將移除我們最大碳匯當中的很大一部分把它替換為在未來最高溫室氣體排放的油產。這個世界不需要任何更多的焦油礦，這個世界不需要任何更多的管道來滿足我們對化石燃料的癮頭。這個世界也當然不需要最大的有毒蓄水池，這池子將會生長、繁殖、並進一步威脅到下游的社區。讓我們面對它，我們都生活在全球暖化和氣候變遷時代的下游地區。 我們所需要的是一起採取行動以確保加拿大尊重國家所擁有的大量淡水資源我們需要確保這些濕地和森林在我們面對全球暖化時是我們最好、最大和最關鍵的防禦堡壘，而且我們也不會在大氣放碳炸彈。我們必須讓所有人聚集在一起對焦油沙說不。我們做得到，有一個存在於世界各地的巨大網絡正與之相抗，以讓這個專案停下來， 我就是認為這不應該只是個在加拿大裡頭所決定的事。每個在這房間裡的人、每個在加拿大的人、每個聽這演說的人都可以發揮作用並且盡一份責任。因為我們在這裡所做的事將改變我們的歷史，它會增豔我們生存的可能性，並讓我們的孩子增加存活的機會，並且擁有一個豐富的未來。 我們在北方有一份絕佳的禮物，一個難得的機會可以預防、抵抗全球暖化，但我們可能讓那機會溜走。焦油沙可能不僅威脅著北方一大片領土，它也危及了一些最貧困、最脆弱人們的生命和健康，那些是能夠教導我們許多的原住民朋友。它可以摧毀阿薩巴斯卡三角洲，可能是地球上最大的淡水三角洲。它可以摧毀大熊雨林，世上最大的溫帶雨林。它可能對未來北美地區農業中心影響甚巨。 如果你對這個演說感觸良多的話我希望你們加入這個日益增長的國際社群要求加拿大履行其職責，說服加拿大回到過去那抵禦氣候變遷的冠軍角色，而不是成為氣候變遷的惡棍，同時，對油砂說不，並且支持所有未來的清潔能源。謝謝！ （掌聲）
