Talk	en	zh-tw
gary_wolf_the_quantified_self	I got up this morning at 6:10 a.m. after going to sleep at 12:45 a.m. I was awakened once during the night. My heart rate was 61 beats per minute — my blood pressure, 127 over 74. I had zero minutes of exercise yesterday, so my maximum heart rate during exercise wasn't calculated. I had about 600 milligrams of caffeine, zero of alcohol. And my score on the Narcissism Personality Index, or the NPI-16, is a reassuring 0.31. We know that numbers are useful for us when we advertise, manage, govern, search. I'm going to talk about how they're useful when we reflect, learn, remember and want to improve. A few years ago, Kevin Kelly, my partner, and I noticed that people were subjecting themselves to regimes of quantitative measurement and self-tracking that went far beyond the ordinary, familiar habits such as stepping on a scale every day. People were tracking their food via Twitter, their kids' diapers on their iPhone. They were making detailed journals of their spending, their mood, their symptoms, their treatments. Now, we know some of the technological facts that are driving this change in our lifestyle — the uptake and diffusion of mobile devices, the exponential improvement in data storage and data processing, and the remarkable improvement in human biometric sensors. This little black dot there is a 3D accelerometer. It tracks your movement through space. It is, as you can see, very small and also very cheap. They're now down to well under a dollar a piece, and they're going into all kinds of devices. But what's interesting is the incredible detailed information that you can get from just one sensor like this. This kind of sensor is in the hit biometric device — among early adopters at the moment — the Fitbit. This tracks your activity and also your sleep. It has just that sensor in it. You're probably familiar with the Nike+ system. I just put it up because that little blue dot is the sensor. It's really just a pressure sensor like the kind that's in a doorbell. And Nike knows how to get your pace and distance from just that sensor. This is the strap that people use to transmit heart-rate data to their Nike+ system. This is a beautiful, new device that gives you detailed sleep tracking data, not just whether you're asleep or awake, but also your phase of sleep — deep sleep, light sleep, REM sleep. The sensor is just a little strip of metal in that headband there. The rest of it is the bedside console; just for reference, this is a sleep tracking system from just a few years ago — I mean, really until now. And this is the sleep tracking system of today. This just was presented at a health care conference in D.C. Most of what you see there is an asthma inhaler, but the top is a very small GPS transceiver, which gives you the date and location of an asthma incident, giving you a new awareness of your vulnerability in relation to time and environmental factors. Now, we know that new tools are changing our sense of self in the world — these tiny sensors that gather data in nature, the ubiquitous computing that allows that data to be understood and used, and of course the social networks that allow people to collaborate and contribute. But we think of these tools as pointing outward, as windows and I'd just like to invite you to think of them as also turning inward and becoming mirrors. So that when we think about using them to get some systematic improvement, we also think about how they can be useful for self-improvement, for self-discovery, self-awareness, self-knowledge. Here's a biometric device: a pair of Apple Earbuds. Last year, Apple filed some patents to get blood oxygenation, heart rate and body temperature via the Earbuds. What is this for? What should it be for? Some people will say it's for biometric security. Some people will say it's for public health research. Some people will say it's for avant-garde marketing research. I'd like to tell you that it's also for self-knowledge. And the self isn't the only thing; it's not even most things. The self is just our operation center, our consciousness, our moral compass. So, if we want to act more effectively in the world, we have to get to know ourselves better. Thank you.	我今晨6：10起床在昨晚12：45入睡之後。夜裏我被弄醒了一次。我的心跳是每分鐘61下。我的血壓127, 74昨天我鍛煉了零分鐘，所以我不能夠計算運動時每分鐘的最大心跳值。我攝入了大約600毫克咖啡因，0毫克酒精。我的自戀人格指數，或者說NPI-16，是讓人放心的0.31. 我們知道數字對我們來說很有用可以用來做廣告、管理、統治、搜尋。我將講講它在我們反思，學習，記憶，尋求進步的過程中有什麼用。幾年前，Kevin Kelly，我的合作夥伴，和我發現人們順從於數量測量和自我追蹤的體系遠遠超過了正常的，熟知的習慣比如每天量體重。人們在Twitter上記錄他們的食物，在iPhone上記錄他們孩子的尿布。他們製作細節化的日誌以記錄他們的花銷，他們的情緒，他們的病症，他們的治療。 現在，我們知道一些正在促使我們改變生活習慣的科技事實—移動設備的出現和普及，資料存儲越來越快的進步，以及資料處理，還有人體生物感測器的顯著進展。那裏的那個小黑點是個3D的加速計。它記錄你在空間裏的一舉一動。如你所見，它又小又便宜。它們已經便宜到了每個低於一美元，而且它們被裝載到了各種各樣的器具上。但是有趣的是你能從這樣一個小小感測器中獲得讓人難以置信的細節化的資訊。這種感測器被裝在這個碰撞生物儀中—和其他轉換器一起—它是Fitbit。它記錄你的活動，你的睡眠。它不過只是裝了那個感測器罷了。 你可能對 “耐吉+” 系統頗為熟悉。我給你們看幅圖，那個小藍點就是感測器。它作為一個壓力探測計就像門鈴裏的那種一樣。耐吉公司知道如何從那個小小的感測器蹤獲取你的步速和行走距離。這是個帶子用來讓人們傳輸心率資料到 “耐吉+” 系統。 這是個漂亮的新儀器它給你細節化的資料，不僅僅是你是睡是醒，，而是你睡眠的階段—深度睡眠，淺度睡眠，REM睡眠。這個感測器不過是束發帶上那個小小的金屬條。剩下的只是床邊的儀表板。給大家參考，在僅僅幾年前這個睡眠追蹤系統是這樣的—我是說，真的只是不久之前這個是現在的睡眠追蹤系統。 這個剛在華盛頓特區的一個醫護會議上被展出。你在那兒看到的大部分是（哮喘）吸入器，頂上是個很小的GPS收發器，讓你知道哮喘發生的時間和地點給你對自身脆弱性與時間和環境因素間的關聯有一個全新的瞭解。 現在，我們知道新工具正在改變我們在這個世界裏的自我意識—這些小小的在大自然裏收集資料的感測器，這些無處不在的計算使得資料得以被使用和瞭解當然還有社會網路能讓人們一同合作。但是我們覺得這些工具面向外界，它們像窗戶，現在我邀請你們把它們看做面向內部像一面鏡子。所以當我們想到使用它們獲得一些系統性的進步的時候我們也會想它們如何促進自我進步，自我發現，自我意識，自我瞭解。 這是個生物指標測量儀器：一副蘋果耳機。去年，蘋果公司提出幾項專利從耳機裏獲取血氧化，心率和體溫這是為了什麼？這應該是為了什麼？一些人會說它是為了生物系統安全。一些人會說它是為了公眾健康調查。一些人會說它是為了創新的銷售市場調查。我認爲這也使你更有自知之明。“自我”不是唯一的；也不是一切。它只不過是我們的操作中心，我們的意識覺悟，我們道德的指南針。所以，如果我們想要在世界裏變得更有效率，我們得對自我有更深入的瞭解。 謝謝。
