Talk	en	zh-tw
gary_lauder_s_new_traffic_sign_take_turns	"I only have three minutes so I'm going to have to talk fast, and it will use up your spare mental cycles, so multitasking may be hard. So, 27 years ago I got a traffic ticket that got me thinking. I've had some time to think it over. And energy efficiency is more than just about the vehicle — it's also about the road. Road design makes a difference, particularly intersections, of which there are two types: signalized and unsignalized, which means stop signs. Fifty percent of crashes happen at intersections. Roundabouts are much better. A study of 24 intersections has found crashes drop 40 percent from when you convert a traffic light into a roundabout. Injury crashes have dropped 76 percent, fatal crashes down 90 percent. But that's just safety. What about time and gas? So, traffic keeps flowing, so that means less braking, which means less accelerating, less gas and less pollution, less time wasted, and that partly accounts for Europe's better efficiency than we have in the United States. So, unsignalized intersections, meaning stop signs, they save many lives, but there's an excessive proliferation of them. Small roundabouts are starting to appear. This is one in my neighborhood. And they are much better — better than traffic lights, better than four-way stop signs. They're expensive to install, but they are more expensive not to. So, we should look at that. But they are not applicable in all situations. So, take, for example, the three-way intersection. So, it's logical that you'd have one there, on the minor road entering the major. But the other two are somewhat questionable. So, here's one. There's another one which I studied. Cars rarely appear on that third road. And so, the question is, what does that cost us? That intersection I looked at had about 3,000 cars per day in each direction, and so that's two ounces of gas to accelerate out of. That's five cents each, and times 3,000 cars per day, that's $51,000 per year. That's just the gasoline cost. There is also pollution, wear on the car, and time. What's that time worth? Well, at 10 seconds per 3,000 cars, that's 8.3 hours per day. The average wage in the U.S. is $20 an hour. That is 60,000 per year. Add that together with the gas, and it's $112,000 per year, just for that sign in each direction. Discount that back to the present, at five percent: over two million dollars for a stop sign, in each direction. Now, if you look at what that adjacent property is worth, you could actually buy the property, cut down the shrubbery to improve the sight line, and then sell it off again. And you'd still come out ahead. So, it makes one wonder, ""Why is it there?"" I mean, why is there that stop sign in each direction? Because it is saving lives. So, is there a better way to accomplish that goal? The answer is to enable cars to come in from that side road safely. Because there are a lot of people who might live up there and if they're waiting forever a long queue could form because the cars aren't slowing down on the main road. Can that be accomplished with existing signs? So, there is a long history of stop signs and yield signs. Stop signs were invented in 1915, yield signs in 1950. But that's all we got. So, why not use a yield sign? Well the meaning of yield is: You must yield the right-of-way. That means that if there are five cars waiting, you have to wait till they all go, then you go. It lacks the notion of alternating, or taking turns, and it's always on the minor road, allowing the major one to have primacy. So, it's hard to create a new meaning for the existing sign. You couldn't suddenly tell everyone, ""OK, remember what you used to do at yield signs? Now do something different."" That would not work. So, what the world needs now is a new type of sign. (Applause) So, you'd have a little instruction below it, you know, for those who didn't see the public service announcements. And it merges the stop sign and yield signs. It's kind of shaped like a T, as in taking turns. And uncertainty results in caution. When people come to an unfamiliar situation they don't know how to deal with they slow down. So, now that you are all ""Road Scholars"" ... (Laughter) don't wait for that sign to be adopted, these things don't change quickly. But you all are members of communities, and you can exercise your community influence to create more sensible traffic flows. And you can have more impact on the environment just getting your neighborhood to change these things than by changing your vehicle. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我只有三分鐘所以我打算講得快一點你們得專心一點，因為你很難再同時做別的事情了27年前我收到一張交通罰單這讓我開始想一些事情我仔細地想了又想發覺提昇能源效能這件事不只和汽車的性能有關也和道路狀況有關 道路的設計非常重要，尤其是在十字路口有二種交通號誌：一種是紅綠燈號一種是標誌，也就是“停”這個標誌有50%的車禍發生在十字路口圓環就沒有這麼多車禍一項針對24個十字路口所做的研究發現把十字路口改成圓環後車禍發生率降低了40%有人受傷的車禍案件下降了76%致命的車禍則下降了90%但這只考慮到行車安全而已我們所浪費的時間和汽油又怎麼計算？若交通一路順暢，就表示減少了煞車的機率也減少了踩油門的機率，同時減少了汽油用量、減少空氣污染減少時間的浪費這多少要歸功於歐洲的優良設計我們美國做得就沒有這麼好 所以，沒有紅綠燈號的十字路口通常都設有“停”這個標誌，確保行車平安但是似乎設置得太過浮濫所以小型的圓環就開始出現了這是我住家附近的一個圓環我覺得比紅綠燈好，也比四向都設“停”這個標誌來得好設置這些圓環的成本不低但是不設置卻會付出更高的代價，讓我們看看以下的分析 這個分析並不適用於每一種狀況所以我舉三岔路口為例在次幹道要進入主幹道的路口上設置“停”這個標誌是很合理但另外二個就還有一點討論空間所以這裡有一個，那裡還有一個但是車子卻很少從次幹道出現 所以我想到一個問題，我們到底為這些標誌付出多少成本？我所研究的路口，每天每一個方向約有3千輛車經過每輛車需要2盎司的汽油才能再從停止狀態加速啟動油錢大約是五分美金，乘上每天有3千輛車一年大約就要花掉美金5萬1千元這只是油錢而已，還有空氣污染汽車零件和時間等等時間要怎麼換算成金錢？3千輛車每輛車花個10秒一天下來就累積出8.3個小時美國的平均薪資是每小時20美金，一年下來就是6萬美金再把油錢加上去，每年我們因為“停”這個標誌在一個方向的車流上就花掉11萬2千美金 我們再用5%的年利率折現成現值在一個路口為雙向車流各設置一個“停”的標誌要花超過二百萬美金如果你看看鄰近土地的價值你大可以用這二百萬買下一塊地砍掉附近的灌木叢改善一下視野再脫手一次你都還有賺頭這不禁讓人想問：“為什麼要這樣做？”我的意思是，為什麼要在每一個方向都設置一個“停”的標誌？就因為安全考量嗎？有沒有什麼別的方法可以達成這個目的？ 答案是我們該確保從次幹道出來的車子安全地通過因為有許多人可能住在裡面若主幹道的車子都不減速那這些車子可能就會等上很久才能通過我們是否能用既有的交通標誌來解決這個問題呢？我們可以考慮一下有悠久歷史的“停”和“讓”這二個標誌“停”這個標誌是在1915年問世“讓”這個標誌則是在1950年，我們只有這二個選擇 我們是否可以選擇使用“讓”這個標誌？讓的意思是：你必須禮讓用路的權利也就是說，若有五輛車已經等在那裡了你必須等到他們都離開後，你才能走這裡面缺少了輪流的概念而且次幹道的用路人永遠必須禮讓主幹道的用路人先行所以用既有的標誌很難表達出新的意義你不能突然對大家說：還記得原來“讓”這個標誌的涵義嗎？現在有不同的解釋哦這樣是行不通的 所以我們需要的是一個全新的交通標誌(掌聲)下面還有一段小說明讓那些從來不關心政府公告的人可以參考這個標誌結合了“停”和“讓”這二個標誌形狀就像個“T”，教大家要輪流通過而且在不確定的狀況下會讓人更加小心當你看到一個不熟悉的標誌，又不知道該怎麼辦的時候你就會減速下來 現在，你們都是“道路專家”了(笑聲)不必等政府採用這個新標誌，因為改變沒有這麼快但是每一個人都是社區的一員你可以運用你的影響力讓你的社區擁有更合理的交通秩序而且你只要讓社區改變一些事情就可以改變整個環境而不必更換你的汽車，謝謝大家(掌聲)
