Talk	en	zh-tw
gary_greenberg_the_beautiful_nano_details_of_our_world	"So I want to talk a little bit about seeing the world from a totally unique point of view, and this world I'm going to talk about is the micro world. I've found, after doing this for many, many years, that there's a magical world behind reality. And that can be seen directly through a microscope, and I'm going to show you some of this today. So let's start off looking at something rather not-so-small, something that we can see with our naked eye, and that's a bee. So when you look at this bee, it's about this size here, it's about a centimeter. But to really see the details of the bee, and really appreciate what it is, you have to look a little bit closer. So that's just the eye of the bee with a microscope, and now all of a sudden you can see that the bee has thousands of individual eyes called ommatidia, and they actually have sensory hairs in their eyes so they know when they're right up close to something, because they can't see in stereo. As we go smaller, here is a human hair. A human hair is about the smallest thing that the eye can see. It's about a tenth of a millimeter. And as we go smaller again, about ten times smaller than that, is a cell. So you could fit 10 human cells across the diameter of a human hair. So when we would look at cells, this is how I really got involved in biology and science is by looking at living cells in the microscope. When I first saw living cells in a microscope, I was absolutely enthralled and amazed at what they looked like. So if you look at the cell like that from the immune system, they're actually moving all over the place. This cell is looking for foreign objects, bacteria, things that it can find. And it's looking around, and when it finds something, and recognizes it being foreign, it will actually engulf it and eat it. So if you look right there, it finds that little bacterium, and it engulfs it and eats it. If you take some heart cells from an animal, and put it in a dish, they'll just sit there and beat. That's their job. Every cell has a mission in life, and these cells, the mission is to move blood around our body. These next cells are nerve cells, and right now, as we see and understand what we're looking at, our brains and our nerve cells are actually doing this right now. They're not just static. They're moving around making new connections, and that's what happens when we learn. As you go farther down this scale here, that's a micron, or a micrometer, and we go all the way down to here to a nanometer and an angstrom. Now, an angstrom is the size of the diameter of a hydrogen atom. That's how small that is. And microscopes that we have today can actually see individual atoms. So these are some pictures of individual atoms. Each bump here is an individual atom. This is a ring of cobalt atoms. So this whole world, the nano world, this area in here is called the nano world, and the nano world, the whole micro world that we see, there's a nano world that is wrapped up within that, and the whole — and that is the world of molecules and atoms. But I want to talk about this larger world, the world of the micro world. So if you were a little tiny bug living in a flower, what would that flower look like, if the flower was this big? It wouldn't look or feel like anything that we see when we look at a flower. So if you look at this flower here, and you're a little bug, if you're on that surface of that flower, that's what the terrain would look like. The petal of that flower looks like that, so the ant is kind of crawling over these objects, and if you look a little bit closer at this stigma and the stamen here, this is the style of that flower, and you notice that it's got these little — these are like little jelly-like things that are what are called spurs. These are nectar spurs. So this little ant that's crawling here, it's like it's in a little Willy Wonka land. It's like a little Disneyland for them. It's not like what we see. These are little bits of individual grain of pollen there and there, and here is a — what you see as one little yellow dot of pollen, when you look in a microscope, it's actually made of thousands of little grains of pollen. So this, for example, when you see bees flying around these little plants, and they're collecting pollen, those pollen grains that they're collecting, they pack into their legs and they take it back to the hive, and that's what makes the beehive, the wax in the beehive. And they're also collecting nectar, and that's what makes the honey that we eat. Here's a close-up picture, or this is actually a regular picture of a water hyacinth, and if you had really, really good vision, with your naked eye, you'd see it about that well. There's the stamen and the pistil. But look what the stamen and the pistil look like in a microscope. That's the stamen. So that's thousands of little grains of pollen there, and there's the pistil there, and these are the little things called trichomes. And that's what makes the flower give a fragrance, and plants actually communicate with one another through their fragrances. I want to talk about something really ordinary, just ordinary sand. I became interested in sand about 10 years ago, when I first saw sand from Maui, and in fact, this is a little bit of sand from Maui. So sand is about a tenth of a millimeter in size. Each sand grain is about a tenth of a millimeter in size. But when you look closer at this, look at what's there. It's really quite amazing. You have microshells there. You have things like coral. You have fragments of other shells. You have olivine. You have bits of a volcano. There's a little bit of a volcano there. You have tube worms. An amazing array of incredible things exist in sand. And the reason that is, is because in a place like this island, a lot of the sand is made of biological material because the reefs provide a place where all these microscopic animals or macroscopic animals grow, and when they die, their shells and their teeth and their bones break up and they make grains of sand, things like coral and so forth. So here's, for example, a picture of sand from Maui. This is from Lahaina, and when we're walking along a beach, we're actually walking along millions of years of biological and geological history. We don't realize it, but it's actually a record of that entire ecology. So here we see, for example, a sponge spicule, two bits of coral here, that's a sea urchin spine. Really some amazing stuff. So when I first looked at this, I was — I thought, gee, this is like a little treasure trove here. I couldn't believe it, and I'd go around dissecting the little bits out and making photographs of them. Here's what most of the sand in our world looks like. These are quartz crystals and feldspar, so most sand in the world on the mainland is made of quartz crystal and feldspar. It's the erosion of granite rock. So mountains are built up, and they erode away by water and rain and ice and so forth, and they become grains of sand. There's some sand that's really much more colorful. These are sand from near the Great Lakes, and you can see that it's filled with minerals like pink garnet and green epidote, all kinds of amazing stuff, and if you look at different sands from different places, every single beach, every single place you look at sand, it's different. Here's from Big Sur, like they're little jewels. There are places in Africa where they do the mining of jewels, and you go to the sand where the rivers have the sand go down to the ocean, and it's like literally looking at tiny jewels through the microscope. So every grain of sand is unique. Every beach is different. Every single grain is different. There are no two grains of sand alike in the world. Every grain of sand is coming somewhere and going somewhere. They're like a snapshot in time. Now sand is not only on Earth, but sand is ubiquitous throughout the universe. In fact, outer space is filled with sand, and that sand comes together to make our planets and the Moon. And you can see those in micrometeorites. This is some micrometeorites that the Army gave me, and they get these out of the drinking wells in the South Pole. And they're quite amazing-looking, and these are the tiny constituents that make up the world that we live in — the planets and the Moon. So NASA wanted me to take some pictures of Moon sand, so they sent me sand from all the different landings of the Apollo missions that happened 40 years ago. And I started taking pictures with my three-dimensional microscopes. This was the first picture I took. It was kind of amazing. I thought it looked kind of a little bit like the Moon, which is sort of interesting. Now, the way my microscopes work is, normally in a microscope you can see very little at one time, so what you have to do is you have to refocus the microscope, keep taking pictures, and then I have a computer program that puts all those pictures together into one picture so you can see actually what it looks like, and I do that in 3D. So there, you can see, is a left-eye view. There's a right-eye view. So sort of left-eye view, right-eye view. Now something's interesting here. This looks very different than any sand on Earth that I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot of sand on Earth, believe me. (Laughter) Look at this hole in the middle. That hole was caused by a micrometeorite hitting the Moon. Now, the Moon has no atmosphere, so micrometeorites come in continuously, and the whole surface of the Moon is covered with powder now, because for four billion years it's been bombarded by micrometeorites, and when micrometeorites come in at about 20 to 60,000 miles an hour, they vaporize on contact. And you can see here that that is — that's sort of vaporized, and that material is holding this little clump of little sand grains together. This is a very small grain of sand, this whole thing. And that's called a ring agglutinate. And many of the grains of sand on the Moon look like that, and you'd never find that on Earth. Most of the sand on the Moon, especially — and you know when you look at the Moon, there's the dark areas and the light areas. The dark areas are lava flows. They're basaltic lava flows, and that's what this sand looks like, very similar to the sand that you would see in Haleakala. Other sands, when these micrometeorites come in, they vaporize and they make these fountains, these microscopic fountains that go up into the — I was going to say ""up into the air,"" but there is no air — goes sort of up, and these microscopic glass beads are formed instantly, and they harden, and by the time they fall down back to the surface of the Moon, they have these beautiful colored glass spherules. And these are actually microscopic; you need a microscope to see these. Now here's a grain of sand that is from the Moon, and you can see that the entire crystal structure is still there. This grain of sand is probably about three and a half or four billion years old, and it's never eroded away like the way we have sand on Earth erodes away because of water and tumbling, air, and so forth. All you can see is a little bit of erosion down here by the Sun, has these solar storms, and that's erosion by solar radiation. So what I've been trying to tell you today is things even as ordinary as a grain of sand can be truly extraordinary if you look closely and if you look from a different and a new point of view. I think that this was best put by William Blake when he said, ""To see a world in a grain of sand and a heaven in a wild flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, and eternity in an hour."" Thank you. (Applause)"	那麼，我想稍微談一談從獨一無二的角度來看世界而我所要談的世界是指「顯微世界」我在這行做了很多很多年之後，發現事物本體背後還有一個神奇的世界而那個世界可以透過顯微鏡直接看到今天我就要展示一些給大家看 那麼我們從一些不是那麼小的東西開始看吧一些我們可以用肉眼看到的東西這是一隻蜜蜂。你看到的這隻蜜蜂大概這麼大，大概是一公分吧但是要能真確看到蜜蜂的細節，要能真的欣賞到牠的樣子，你得更近一點看這就是以顯微鏡看到的蜜蜂眼睛突然間你可以看到這隻蜜蜂擁有成千上萬的小眼睛，稱作复眼他們的眼睛上的確長了感覺髮細胞所以他們會知道他們接近了物體因為他們看東西沒有立體感 現在我們來看更小的物體，這是人的毛髮人的毛髮大概是肉眼所能見的最小物體大約是十分之一公釐 我們再看更小的比毛髮再小約十倍的東西，就是細胞所以你把十個人體細胞橫排就是一根頭髮的直徑大小 所以當我們看細胞，這也是我如何跨入生物學界及科學界，就是以顯微鏡看活細胞當我第一次以顯微鏡看活細胞我完全被吸引住，訝異於它們的樣子如果你看像這樣來自免疫系統的細胞它們其實是到處移動的這個細胞正在尋找外來物體譬如細菌這些它能找到的東西它四處尋找，當它找到什麼並且辨識它為外來物體這細胞就把它吞沒，吃掉所以如果你看那裡，它找到了那個小細菌就把它吞沒，吃掉了如果你拿一些動物的心臟細胞放在盤子上，它們就會在那裡跳動這是它們的工作。每個細胞都有自己的使命，而這些細胞，它們的使命就是在我們的身體裡輸送血液。接下來看的是神經細胞，而就是現在就在我們看著某樣東西並試著理解時我們的腦部及神經細胞就在做這件事就是現在。它們並非靜止不動。它們會移動產生新的連結，這就是我們學習時會發生的事 隨著看的東西愈來愈小那是一微米，即百萬分之一公尺，再繼續往下看到一奈米再到一埃米（angstrom）。那麼，一埃米就是氫原子的直徑大小一埃米就是這麼小現今的顯微鏡已經可以看到原子。所以這就是原子的圖片。每個小突起皆為一個原子這是鈷原子環 所以這整個世界，這奈米世界，這個領域叫奈米世界，這個奈米世界我們所看到的整個顯微世界是包含了奈米世界在裡面的而整個 — 但那是分子及原子世界 我想談的是大一點的世界就是顯微世界這個領域 所以如果你是隻住在花朵裡的小蟲如果這朵花是這麼大，這花看起來會是什麼樣子？它絕不會是我們看一朵花時所看到或感覺到的樣子。所以如果你看這朵花而你是隻小蟲，如果你處在那朵花的表面上這就是你的地面的樣子那朵花的花瓣看起來會像那樣，所以這螞蟻會好像爬過這些物體，而如果你再近一點看這裡的柱頭及雄蕊這是那朵花的花柱，那你會注意到那裡有一些小小的 — 像小小的果凍一樣的東西這些被稱做花距。這些是儲存花蜜的花距所以這隻在這裡爬的小螞蟻，就好像在小小的歡樂糖果屋裡一樣對牠們而言這就好像小迪斯奈樂園完全不像我們所看見的這些是單顆花粉粒那裡和那裡，這是個 —你看到的一顆顆小黃點花粉當你用顯微鏡看的時候，它其實是由上千顆的小花粉粒組成所以舉個例子，這個，當你看到蜜蜂在這些植物四周飛來飛去採集花粉牠們會把採集來的花粉粒堆在腳上，帶回蜂巢這些就是蜂巢的組成份蜂巢的蜂蠟。蜜蜂也採蜜那就是我們吃的蜂蜜 這是布袋蓮的特寫圖，或者應該說這才是布袋蓮真正的圖像。如果你的視力非常好那麼你用肉眼應該也可以清楚看到這些這是雄蕊及雌蕊。但請看清楚在顯微鏡下雄蕊及雌蕊的樣子。這是雄蕊所以那是成千上萬的小花粉粒而這是雌蕊，這些小東西叫毛茸。這就是花有味道的原因，而植物的確以香味來彼此溝通 我想談談再普通不過的東西就是普通的沙子約十年前我對沙產生興趣那時我第一次看到夏威夷毛伊島（Maui）的沙事實上，這就是來自毛伊島的小沙粒所以沙的大小約十分之一公釐每顆沙粒的尺寸都大約是十分之一公釐但當你更近一點看，看看這裡有什麼實在令人嘆為觀止。你有這些微小的貝殻你有像珊瑚一樣的東西也有其它貝殻的碎片。還有橄欖石你也有火山碎片。那裡有一些小小的火山碎片。還有一些管狀蠕蟲在沙裡存在著不可思議的東西，令人讚嘆的陣容原因是因為像這種島的地方有很多沙子源自生物成分因為珊瑚礁提供了這些顯微動物或肉眼可見的動物生長的地方而當這些動物死亡時，他們的殼、牙齒及骨頭會分解成為沙粒譬如像珊瑚等等的東西都會所以這裡舉個例子，這張圖是從毛伊來的沙這是從拉海納（Lahaina）來的當我們沿著海灘行走時，我們其實是走了一趟數百萬年的生物及地質歷史我們並沒有意識到這件事，但這真的是整本生態學的記錄所以這裡舉個例，我們看見一條海綿的骨針這是兩小片珊瑚碎片這是海膽的硬棘刺。真的很令人讚嘆的東西 所以當我第一次看到這個，我簡直 — 我想，天啊！這簡直就是個小的藏寶窟。我簡直不敢相信！我四處尋找剖析這些小粒子並且照相這些就是我們看到的沙的樣子這些是石英及長石所以全球大陸絕大多數的沙子都是由石英及長石所組成，因為花崗岩受到侵蝕所以山脈形成後被水或雨或冰等等風化侵蝕這些山就變成沙粒這是一些色彩更繽紛的沙子這些沙是從五大湖區邊上來的你可以看到它充滿礦物像是粉紅色的石榴石和綠簾石，各種令人驚奇的東西而且如果你觀看從不同的地方來的沙子你去看從每一個海灘、每一個地方來的沙都不一樣。這些是從北加州大索爾（Big Sur）來的，好像小珠寶在非洲有些地方是開採貴重寶石的。如果你去那邊河裡看那些被沖到海裡的沙，你的確可以從顯微鏡下看到那些小小的珠寶所以每顆沙粒都是獨特的，每個海灘都不一樣每一顆沙粒都不同，這世界沒有一模一樣的兩顆沙每一粒沙都有來處，也都有終點他們就像時間的剪影 那麼沙不僅僅存在於地球，沙還在這宇宙裡無所不在。事實上外太空充滿了沙，而這些沙子組合成我們的行星及月亮你可以從微隕石中發現這點這些是美國陸軍給我的微隕石他們從南極的一些飲水井裡挖出這些他們看起來還挺好看的，而這些就是組成我們所住的世界的小小成份 —這些行星及月亮 所以美國太空總署要我拍一些月亮沙子的照片所以他們送了一些沙子給我，是40年前阿波羅太空船從不同登陸點所採到的然後我開始用我的立體（3D）顯微鏡拍攝這是我拍的第一張照片。還挺驚人的。我認為這看起還有點像月球，還滿有趣的。那麼，我的顯微鏡運作的方法是，通常在顯微鏡底下你一次能看到的東西非常少所以你要做的是，你必須把顯微鏡重新對焦不斷照相，然後我有一套電腦程式可以把這些照片組合起來合成一張照片，所以你可以看到它真正的樣子而且我做立體圖。所以這裡你看到的是左眼視圖，這則是右眼視圖就好樣左眼看，右眼看一樣 那麼這裡有件很有趣的事。這與我曾看過的地球的沙都非常不一樣，我真的看過很多地球的沙，相信我。（笑）看看這個在中間的洞。那個洞是因為微隕石撞擊月球造成的那麼月球沒有大氣層，所以微隕石可以不斷進入，而整個月球表面現在都被粉塵所覆蓋，因為過去四十億年它不停地被微隕石轟炸所以當微隕石以大約每小時20到六萬英哩的速度進入時，在接觸月球時就蒸發了所以你可以看到這個 —這就是所謂蒸發，而那個材料就是把這些小小沙粒團塊粘起來的東西這是個非常小的沙粒，這整個東西都是那被稱為環粘合很多月球上的沙粒看起來就像那樣而你絕不會在地球上發現那個月球上大多數的沙尤其是 — 你看到月亮就會了解那裡有黑暗的地方及明亮的地方。黑暗的地方是熔岩流。它們是玄武質熔岩流而那就是這沙的樣子，非常類似你在夏威夷哈雷卡拉（Haleakala）看到的沙其他的沙子，當這些微隕石進入月球時它們就蒸發了，然後產生噴泉這些微觀噴泉向上噴到 —我本來要說向上噴到「空氣」中，不過那裡沒有空氣 —就說是向上噴吧，然後這些微小的玻璃珠立刻成型，變硬，然後當它們掉落回月球表面時就變成了這些色彩炫麗的玻璃球這些都是微觀的你需要一座顯微鏡才看得見這些 現在看到的是一顆來自月球的沙粒而你可以看到這整體晶狀結構仍然存在這粒沙的年紀大概已有三十五億到四十億年吧而且它永遠不會像我們地球上的沙一樣被水、滾動、空氣等等東西侵蝕風化你只能在這下面看到一點點被太陽侵蝕的現象，是因為這些太陽風所以這是因為太陽輻射所造成的侵蝕 所以今天我在這裡，試著想傳達的就是即使平凡如沙粒的東西如果你仔細看，如果你從不同的角度看，從新的角度看，也能看出它真正非凡之處。我想，當威廉·布萊克寫下這首詩時已爲此下了最好的詮釋一沙一世界一花一天堂掌中握無限剎那即永恆謝謝。（掌聲）
