Talk	en	zh-tw
geoff_mulgan_post_crash_investing_in_a_better_world_1	"It's hard to believe that it's less than a year since the extraordinary moment when the finance, the credit, which drives our economies froze. A massive cardiac arrest. The effect, the payback, perhaps, for years of vampire predators like Bernie Madoff, whom we saw earlier. Abuse of steroids, binging and so on. And it's only a few months since governments injected enormous sums of money to try and keep the whole system afloat. And we're now in a very strange sort of twilight zone, where no one quite knows what's worked, or what doesn't. We don't have any very clear maps, any compass to guide us. We don't know which experts to believe anymore. What I'm going to try and do is to give some pointers to what I think is the landscape on the other side of the crisis, what things we should be looking out for and how we can actually use the crisis. There's a definition of leadership which says, ""It's the ability to use the smallest possible crisis for the biggest possible effect."" And I want to talk about how we ensure that this crisis, which is by no means small, really is used to the full. I want to start just by saying a bit about where I'm coming from. I've got a very confused background which perhaps makes me appropriate for confused times. I've got a Ph.D. in Telecoms, as you can see. I trained briefly as a Buddhist monk under this guy. I've been a civil servant, and I've been in charge of policy for this guy as well. But what I want to talk about begins when I was at this city, this university, as a student. And then as now, it was a beautiful place of balls and punts, beautiful people, many of whom took to heart Ronald Reagan's comment that, ""even if they say hard work doesn't do you any harm, why risk it?"" But when I was here, a lot of my fellow teenagers were in a very different situation, leaving school at a time then of rapidly growing youth unemployment, and essentially hitting a brick wall in terms of their opportunities. And I spent quite a lot of time with them rather than in punts. And they were people who were not short of wit, or grace or energy, but they had no hope, no jobs, no prospects. And when people aren't allowed to be useful, they soon think that they're useless. And although that was great for the music business at the time, it wasn't much good for anything else. And ever since then, I've wondered why it is that capitalism is so amazingly efficient at some things, but so inefficient at others, why it's so innovative in some ways and so un-innovative in others. Now, since that time, we've actually been through an extraordinary boom, the longest boom ever in the history of this country. Unprecedented wealth and prosperity, but that growth hasn't always delivered what we needed. H.L. Mencken once said that, ""to every complex problem, there is a simple solution and it's wrong."" But I'm not saying growth is wrong, but it's very striking that throughout the years of growth, many things didn't get better. Rates of depression carried on up, right across the Western world. If you look at America, the proportion of Americans with no one to talk to about important things went up from a tenth to a quarter. We commuted longer to work, but as you can see from this graph, the longer you commute the less happy you're likely to be. And it became ever clearer that economic growth doesn't automatically translate into social growth or human growth. We're now at another moment when another wave of teenagers are entering a cruel job market. There will be a million unemployed young people here by the end of the year, thousands losing their jobs everyday in America. We've got to do whatever we can to help them, but we've also got to ask, I think, a more profound question of whether we use this crisis to jump forward to a different kind of economy that's more suited to human needs, to a better balance of economy and society. And I think one of the lessons of history is that even the deepest crises can be moments of opportunity. They bring ideas from the margins into the mainstream. They often lead to the acceleration of much-needed reforms. And you saw that in the '30s, when the Great Depression paved the way for Bretton Woods, welfare states and so on. And I think you can see around us now, some of the green shoots of a very different kind of economy and capitalism which could grow. You can see it in daily life. When times are hard, people have to do things for themselves, and right across the world, Oxford, Omaha, Omsk, you can see an extraordinary explosion of urban farming, people taking over land, taking over roofs, turning barges into temporary farms. And I'm a very small part of this. I have 60,000 of these things in my garden. A few of these. This is Atilla the hen. And I'm a very small part of a very large movement, which for some people is about survival, but is also about values, about a different kind of economy, which isn't so much about consumption and credit, but about things which matter to us. And everywhere too, you can see a proliferation of time banks and parallel currencies, people using smart technologies to link up all the resources freed up by the market — people, buildings, land — and linking them to whomever has got the most compelling needs. There's a similar story, I think, for governments. Ronald Reagan, again, said the two funniest sentences in the English language are, ""I'm from the government. And I'm here to help."" But I think last year when governments did step in, people were quite glad that they were there, that they did act. But now, a few months on, however good politicians are at swallowing frogs without pulling a face, as someone once put it, they can't hide their uncertainty. Because it's already clear how much of the enormous amount of money they put into the economy, really went into fixing the past, bailing out the banks, the car companies, not preparing us for the future. How much of the money is going into concrete and boosting consumption, not into solving the really profound problems we have to solve. And everywhere, as people think about the unprecedented sums which are being spent of our money and our children's money, now, in the depth of this crisis, they're asking: Surely, we should be using this with a longer-term vision to accelerate the shift to a green economy, to prepare for aging, to deal with some of the inequalities which scar countries like this and the United States rather than just giving the money to the incumbents? Surely, we should be giving the money to entrepreneurs, to civil society, for people able to create the new, not to the big, well-connected companies, big, clunky government programs. And, after all this, as the great Chinese sage Lao Tzu said, ""Governing a great country is like cooking a small fish. Don't overdo it."" And I think more and more people are also asking: Why boost consumption, rather than change what we consume? Like the mayor of São Paulo who's banned advertising billboards, or the many cities like San Francisco putting in infrastructures for electric cars. You can see a bit of the same thing happening in the business world. Some, I think some of the bankers who have appear to have learned nothing and forgotten nothing. But ask yourselves: What will be the biggest sectors of the economy in 10, 20, 30 years time? It won't be the ones lining up for handouts, like cars and aerospace and so on. The biggest sector, by far, will be health — already 18 percent of the American economy, predicted to grow to 30, even 40 percent by mid-century. Elder care, child care, already much bigger employers than cars. Education: six, seven, eight percent of the economy and growing. Environmental services, energy services, the myriad of green jobs, they're all pointing to a very different kind of economy which isn't just about products, but is using distributed networks, and it's founded above all on care, on relationships, on what people do to other people, often one to one, rather than simply selling them a product. And I think that what connects the challenge for civil society, the challenge for governments and the challenge for business now is, in a way, a very simple one, but quite a difficult one. We know our societies have to radically change. We know we can't go back to where we were before the crisis. But we also know it's only through experiment that we'll discover exactly how to run a low carbon city, how to care for a much older population, how to deal with drug addiction and so on. And here's the problem. In science, we do experiments systematically. Our societies now spend two, three, four percent of GDP to invest systematically in new discovery, in science, in technology, to fuel the pipeline of brilliant inventions which illuminate gatherings like this. It's not that our scientists are necessarily much smarter than they were a hundred years ago, maybe they are, but they have a hell of a lot more backing than they ever did. And what's striking though, is that in society there's almost nothing comparable, no comparable investment, no systematic experiment, in the things capitalism isn't very good at, like compassion, or empathy, or relationships or care. Now, I didn't really understand that until I met this guy who was then an 80-year-old, slightly shambolic man who lived on tomato soup and thought ironing was very overrated. He had helped shape Britain's post-war institutions, its welfare state, its economy, but had sort of reinvented himself as a social entrepreneur, became an inventor of many, many different organizations. Some famous ones like the Open University, which has 110,000 students, the University of the Third Age, which has nearly half a million older people teaching other older people, as well as strange things like DIY garages and language lines and schools for social entrepreneurs. And he ended his life selling companies to venture capitalists. He believed if you see a problem, you shouldn't tell someone to act, you should act on it yourself, and he lived long enough and saw enough of his ideas first scorned and then succeed that he said you should always take no as a question and not as an answer. And his life was a systematic experiment to find better social answers, not from a theory, but from experiment, and experiment involving the people with the best intelligence on social needs, which were usually the people living with those needs. And he believed we live with others, we share the world with others and therefore our innovation must be done with others too, not doing things at people, for them, and so on. Now, what he did didn't used to have a name, but I think it's rapidly becoming quite mainstream. It's what we do in the organization named after him where we try and invent, create, launch new ventures, whether it's schools, web companies, health organizations and so on. And we find ourselves part of a very rapidly growing global movement of institutions working on social innovation, using ideas from design or technology or community organizing to develop the germs of a future world, but through practice and through demonstration and not through theory. And they're spreading from Korea to Brazil to India to the USA and across Europe. And they've been given new momentum by the crisis, by the need for better answers to joblessness, community breakdown and so on. Some of the ideas are strange. These are complaints choirs. People come together to sing about the things that really bug them. (Laughter) Others are much more pragmatic: health coaches, learning mentors, job clubs. And some are quite structural, like social impact bonds where you raise money to invest in diverting teenagers from crime or helping old people keep out of hospital, and you get paid back according to how successful your projects are. Now, the idea that all of this represents, I think, is rapidly becoming a common sense and part of how we respond to the crisis, recognizing the need to invest in innovation for social progress as well as technological progress. There were big health innovation funds launched earlier this year in this country, as well as a public service innovation lab. Across northern Europe, many governments now have innovation laboratories within them. And just a few months ago, President Obama launched the Office of Social Innovation in the White House. And what people are beginning to ask is: Surely, just as we invest in R and D, two, three, four percent, of our GDP, of our economy, what if we put, let's say, one percent of public spending into social innovation, into elder care, new kinds of education, new ways of helping the disabled? Perhaps we'd achieve similar productivity gains in society to those we've had in the economy and in technology. And if, a generation or two ago, the big challenges were ones like getting a man on the moon, perhaps the challenges we need to set ourselves now are ones like eliminating child malnutrition, stopping trafficking, or one, I think closer to home for America or Europe, why don't we set ourselves the goal of achieving a billion extra years of life for today's citizens. Now those are all goals which could be achieved within a decade, but only with radical and systematic experiment, not just with technologies, but also with lifestyles and culture and policies and institutions too. Now, I want to end by saying a little bit about what I think this means for capitalism. I think what this is all about, this whole movement which is growing from the margins, remains quite small. Nothing like the resources of a CERN or a DARPA or an IBM or a Dupont. What it's telling us is that capitalism is going to become more social. It's already immersed in social networks. It will become more involved in social investment, and social care and in industries where the value comes from what you do with others, not just from what you sell to them, and from relationships as well as from consumption. But interestingly too, it implies a future where society learns a few tricks from capitalism about how you embed the DNA of restless continual innovation into society, trying things out and then growing and scaling the ones that work. Now, I think this future will be quite surprising to many people. In recent years, a lot of intelligent people thought that capitalism had basically won. History was over and society would inevitably have to take second place to economy. But I've been struck with a parallel in how people often talk about capitalism today and how they talked about the monarchy 200 years ago, just after the French Revolution and the restoration of the monarchy in France. Then, people said monarchy dominated everywhere because it was rooted in human nature. We were naturally deferential. We needed hierarchy. Just as today, the enthusiasts of unrestrained capitalism say it's rooted in human nature, only now it's individualism, inquisitiveness, and so on. Then monarchy had seen off its big challenger, mass democracy, which was seen as a well-intentioned but doomed experiment, just as capitalism has seen off socialism. Even Fidel Castro now says that the only thing worse than being exploited by multinational capitalism is not being exploited by multinational capitalism. And whereas then monarchies, palaces and forts dominated every city skyline and looked permanent and confident, today it's the gleaming towers of the banks which dominate every big city. I'm not suggesting the crowds are about to storm the barricades and string up every investment banker from the nearest lamppost, though that might be quite tempting. But I do think we're on the verge of a period when, just as happened to the monarchy and, interestingly, the military too, the central position of finance capital is going to come to an end, and it's going to steadily move to the sides, the margins of our society, transformed from being a master into a servant, a servant to the productive economy and of human needs. And as that happens, we will remember something very simple and obvious about capitalism, which is that, unlike what you read in economics textbooks, it's not a self-sufficient system. It depends on other systems, on ecology, on family, on community, and if these aren't replenished, capitalism suffers too. And our human nature isn't just selfish, it's also compassionate. It's not just competitive, it's also caring. Because of the depth of the crisis, I think we are at a moment of choice. The crisis is almost certainly deepening around us. It will be worse at the end of this year, quite possibly worse in a year's time than it is today. But this is one of those very rare moments when we have to choose whether we're just pedaling furiously to get back to where we were a year or two ago, and a very narrow idea of what the economy is for, or whether this is a moment to jump ahead, to reboot and to do some of the things we probably should have been doing anyway. Thank you. (Applause)"	很難相信金融危機是不到一年前發生的事，我們的經濟凍結了，像一場嚴重的心臟病發作。也許這是馬多夫這種吸血鬼，在吸了我們多年的血之後，必然會發生的結果。就像濫用類固醇，狂歡等等。僅僅幾個月前，政府才投入鉅額資金試圖維持系統運作，而我們現在處於一個很奇怪、像是陰陽魔界的地帶，沒人確定什麼有用，什麼沒用。我們沒有明確的地圖或指南針指引，我們也不知道哪個專家可以信賴。 我想做的是指出金融危機的另一面，就是我們該小心什麼，以及我們能怎樣利用這次危機。有一種對領導力的定義是說：「將最小的危機轉化成最大效能的能力。」我也要說說我們該怎麼把這不算小的危機用到極盡。 我想先講講我的經歷。我的背景很複雜，可能就是這樣，我很適合活在複雜的時代。我有一個電訊博士學位，我曾短期拜這位為師，接受成為佛僧的訓練，我當過公務員，也負責過這個人的政策。 但我要說的起始於我在這城市當大學生時，跟現在一樣，那是個美麗的地方，有人踢球、划船、還有帥哥美女，很多人都對雷根(Ronald Reagan)的說法深感同意：「即使大家都說辛苦工作無害，但也沒必要冒險吧？」 但我在那裡時，我很多的青少年同儕處境相差很多，他們畢業時，正好處於青年失業率劇增的時機，在尋求機會上總是碰釘子。我花好多時間在他們身上，而不是在平底船上。他們這些人不是不夠聰明、不夠優雅或體力不足，而是他們沒有希望、沒有工作、沒有前景。而當人們無法一展所長時，他們很快就會覺得自己沒用。雖然當時的音樂事業發展得很好，其他的產業則不然。從那時開始，我不禁納悶為什麼資本主義在某方面能出奇地有效率，在其他方面則又不然，在某方面可以如此創新，在其他方面又恰恰相反。 那段時間過後，我們的景氣確實蓬勃發展了一陣子，是我國有史以來最久的一次，史無前例的富裕和繁榮，但那成長並不總是帶來我們所需要的。孟肯（H.L.Mencken，美國知名社會評論家）曾說：「每個複雜的問題，都有個簡單的解法，但那個解法是不對的。」我不是說經濟成長不好，然而駭人的是，經過這些年的成長，很多事並沒有好轉。憂鬱症比例節節升高，遍及整個西方世界。看看美國，原本只有十分之一的人找不到可以傾訴重要事情的對象，現在已經升到1/4了。人們通勤的時間增長，而你們可以從這張圖表看出，通勤的時間越長，就越不可能快樂。我們漸漸明白，經濟成長並不一定等於社會成長、或人性提升。 我們現在又再次面臨青少年即將進入殘忍的就業市場的一刻，年底前即將有一百萬名失業的年輕人。美國每天有上千人失去工作，我們必須盡其所能幫助這些人，但我們同時也該提出一個更深層的問題:我們能否利用這次危機將我們的經濟轉型成一個更符合人性需求、讓社會與經濟更協調的狀態。 我覺得歷史的教訓之一就是：即便是最大的危機，也可以是轉機。危機可以為主流思想帶入新觀念，並加速必要改革的腳步。這在三十年代就曾發生過，大蕭條造就了布雷頓森林協議、福利國家等等。我想你們現在可以看看周遭，我們可以培育某些不同的經濟和資本主義的幼苗。在日常生活裡就可以看見這些幼苗，每當時機不好，人們凡事就得自己來，現在整個世界，包括牛津、奧馬哈、歐姆斯克等地，你都可以見到都市耕作大量增加，人們把土地、屋頂、大型平底船改造成暫時性農場。 我也參加了一小部分，我花園裡有六萬隻這類的東西，很多，這是母雞阿提拉。我在這個大趨勢中，只不過是一個非常小的參與者，但對某些人來說卻攸關生死，關係到價值觀和不同類型的經濟體，不再只是繞著消費和信貸打轉，而是回到對我們來說更重要的事。各地都可以見到時間銀行(貢獻彼此專長的社群網站)及平行貨幣逐漸普及，人們開始用先進科技連結被市場、人群、建築、土地釋放出來的資源，並連結到那些需求最迫切的人們。 我想政府那邊也有類似的故事。雷根用英語說過最好笑的兩句話是：「我是政府派來的，而且我是來幫忙的。」但我認為去年政府介入時，民眾對政府有挺身而出還蠻高興的，但是現在過了幾個月，即使有人說這些政客厲害到連吞青蛙也面不改色，但他們也沒辦法隱藏自己的不確定感。因為事實就擺在眼前，丟了那麼多錢在救經濟，其實大部分都用來補以前的洞、拯救銀行、拯救汽車公司，而不是在為我們的未來鋪路。花了這麼多錢在鞏固和刺激消費，卻沒有治到我們應該治的根。 當我們想著我們所支出的空前鉅額款項，全都是我們以及我們小孩的錢時，處在水深火熱危機中的我們該問：「我們應該要用更有遠見的方法，來加速轉型成綠色經濟，為人口老化做準備，解決這個把美國和其他國家搞得坑坑疤疤的不均衡問題，而不是一味把錢送給闖禍的人吧？」我們當然也該提供資金給那些能夠創新的企業、社團或個人，而不是給那些又大又到處有關係的公司，或既大又笨重的政府計畫。畢竟，偉大的中國聖人老子也說過：「治大國，若烹小鮮。」 我覺得越來越多人在問：為什麼寧願刺激消費，卻不願意改變我們消費的東西？像聖保羅的市長就禁用廣告看板，或很多跟舊金山一樣的城市，都為電動車裝設了基礎設施，你也可以在商場上看到類似的演變。我認為有些銀行家似乎什麼都沒學到，也全都忘記了，但請捫心自問：在未來的10、20、30年間，整個經濟體中貢獻最大的產業會是什麼？不會是那些排隊領取政府補助的汽車業或航太工業； 最大塊的是，以目前來講，是醫療產業～已經佔美國總體經濟的18%，預計將在世紀中期成長到30%甚至40%。老人照顧、孩童照顧產業的從業人員，都已超過汽車業。教育，佔總體經濟的6%、7%或8%，且仍在成長。環保服務、能源服務、數不清的綠色工作，都指向一個截然不同的經濟產業，這個產業提供的不只是產品，還搭配運用了配銷網路，強調關懷、關係、和人們對他人做了什麼，通常是一對一，而不只是銷售產品。 我認為現在各個社團、政府及企業所面臨的挑戰，看起來很簡單，但其實又蠻難的。大家都知道我們的社會必須徹底改變，也知道再也不能回到金融危機發生之前的過去，但我們也知道只有透過不斷嚐試，才能打造低碳城市、照顧老年人口、解決毒品上癮等問題。 問題就來了。在科學上，我們會有系統地做實驗，現在國內生產總值的2%、3%、或4%是有系統地投資在新發現、科學及科技領域上，給優秀的發明加加火力，就像照亮這些的東西。現代的科學家不一定就比一百年前的科學家聰明，即便如此，那是因為他們有以前科學家留下的知識做後盾。但令人驚訝的是，社會科學是沒法比較的，我們沒有投入對稱的資金，我們也不能針對同情心、同理心、關懷或關心等這些資本主義所不擅長的事物，進行系統化的實驗。 在我遇見這個人之前，我還不太明白這個道理。他那時候80歲了，是個有點雜亂無章的男人，他喝蕃茄湯過活，還認為燙衣服太高級。他曾幫忙塑造英國戰後的機構，包括福利國家、經濟等，但是有點像是重新把自己改造成一個社團創辦者，成為一個發明許多許多不同組織的人。其中一些有名的像是開放大學，有十一萬個學生，還有第三年代大學，大概有50萬位年長者傳授學問給其他年長者。也有一些奇怪的組織，像是自製車庫和語言學校，以及給社團創辦者的學校。他的生命在把公司賣給創投業者後畫下終點。 他相信如果你看到問題，不應該去叫別人行動，你應該自己起而行。而他活的夠久，看得到他那些一開始被人譏笑的想法修成正果，他說你應該總是把「不行」看做問句，而不是答案。而他的一生就是系統化的實驗，找出更好的社會解答，不根據定理，而是實驗。他的實驗涵蓋那些最瞭解社會需求的人，也通常就是亟需這些需求的人。他也相信，我們和他人生活在一起，我們和他人分享這世界，因此我們的創新也必須借助他人的力量才能完成，而不單只是為某人而做、或是為別人而做等等。 他原本沒沒無名，但我認為現在正快速演變成主流了。我們在組織裡做的事是以他命名，在那裡我們試著發明、創造、開始新冒險，無論是學校、網路公司、健保機構等都一樣。我們還發現自己已捲入一個急速成長的全球趨勢，成為致力於社會創新的機構，利用設計、科技或社群組織引發的想法，培育未來世界的幼苗，但我們不靠理論空談，而是實際演練和展示。這個趨勢從韓國傳到巴西，再傳到印度和美國，並橫跨整個歐洲。金融危機帶給這股新趨勢新的動能，為失業、社群崩解等提出更好的解釋。 有些想法怪怪的。這是抱怨合唱團，人們聚集起來唱唱他們厭煩的事情。（笑聲）其他的就比較務實，像健康教練、學習輔導員、就業俱樂部等。還有一些蠻有架構的，像「社會影響債券」，就是籌錢去資助青少年改邪歸正，或幫助老人遠離醫院，然後你所得的報酬是依照你計畫成功的程度來計價。 我認為，這所有的想法，正迅速地發展成一種常識，成為我們面臨危機時的應對方法，讓我們體認到我們必須為社會的創新改革投入資金，就如同我們為科技發展所投入的資金一樣。一些鉅額的健康創新基金，早就在今年發行了，同時也啟動了公益服務創新實驗室。北歐有很多政府部門，現在都有了自己的創新實驗室。就在幾個月前，歐巴馬總統啟用了白宮「社會創新辦公室」。 大家開始會問：我們既然花2%、3%、或4%的國內生產總值在研發上，為何不把1％的公共支出經費用在社會創新、老年照護、新式教育、和新的幫助殘疾人士的方法上？或許我們可以達成類似在經濟和科技上所獲得的生產報酬。 在一兩個世代前，人類最大的挑戰是像送太空人上月球之類的，也許我們現在所該設定的挑戰，應該是根絕孩童營養失衡問題、阻止走私等，或者，我想設立一個貼近美國人民和歐洲人民想法的目標，就是給現在的人民多十億年的壽命。這些呢，都是十年內可以達到的目標，但絕對要有徹底而系統化的實驗精神，不能只靠科技，也要靠我們改變生活型態、文化、政策和組織機構等。 最後，我想談談金融危機對資本主義有什麼意義。我覺得我們所談的這整個趨勢，還在發展階段，規模還很小，吸引不到像歐洲核子研究組織(CERN)、美國國防高級研究計畫局(DARPA)、IBM或杜邦所會投入的資源，這代表的是資本主義會變得比較社會化。資本主義已經融入了社交網絡，資本主義會參與更多的社會投資和社會關懷，而對於那些價值來自你和他人互動的產業，價值不只在於你賣出的東西，而在於關係的建立，也在於消費。但同樣有趣的是，這意味著未來整個社會會向資本主義學習，學習如何把持續創新求變的基因植入社會，嘗試不同方法之後，培育和擴大那些可行方案。 我想這種未來對很多人來說會蠻出乎意料的。近年來，很多聰明的人都認為資本主義基本上贏了。歷史已經過去，而社會難免要墊在經濟之後。但我很訝異的是，人們談起現今的資本主義，竟和他們談起200年前法國大革命之後，要求法國君主復辟的論調一樣。 那時候，人們說各地都需要君主制度，因為這是基於人性考量，我們天生擅於順從，我們需要階級。就像現在，無限制資本主義的擁護者也說這是基於人性考量，因為我們愛好個人主義、愛探別人隱私。然後君主制被民主這個挑戰者擊敗，我們認為民主是立意良善、一定要進行的實驗，就像資本主義送走社會主義一樣。連卡斯楚現在都說，唯一比被各國資本主義剝削更糟的事，是沒有被各國資本主義剝削。以前的君主用皇宮和堡壘，統治著各個城市，看起來恆久又自信，今天則是閃耀的銀行大樓，主宰著各個大城市。 我不是在暗示群眾去攻擊這些銀行大樓，或是把所有投資銀行家綁在最近的路燈柱上，雖然這可能蠻吸引人的。但我想我們目前所處的階段，就像是要結束君主制度和軍事政權一樣，金融首都的中心地位即將告一段落，它將漸漸地移轉到旁邊，移到我們社會的邊緣，從主人轉變成僕人，為生產性經濟和人類需求效力。 當這件事實現時，我們將會記得資本主義是一個相當簡單又明白的事，不像你在經濟學教科書上讀的，這並不是自給自足的系統，還必須依賴其他系統，像生態學、家庭、社群等，而如果這些系統沒有滿足，資本主義也會跟著遭殃。我們的人性不只有自私，還有同情；不只會競爭，還會關懷。這次的金融危機衝擊很大，我認為我們選擇的時刻到了。 這次的金融危機幾乎可以說愈來愈糟，今年年底會更糟，一年以後可能還會更糟。但這也是史上少見的時刻，我們必須選擇，我們到底是要瘋狂地找回我們一、兩年前的處境，回到我們自以為是的狹隘經濟理念，還是我們要利用此刻往前跳，重新出發，並做一些我們或許本來就該去做的事情。謝謝。 （掌聲）
