Talk	en	zh-tw
geoffrey_canada_our_failing_schools_enough_is_enough	"I'm a little nervous, because my wife Yvonne said to me, she said, ""Geoff, you watch the TED Talks."" I said, ""Yes, honey, I love TED Talks."" She said, ""You know, they're like, really smart, talented — "" I said, ""I know, I know."" (Laughter) She said, ""They don't want, like, the angry black man."" (Laughter) So I said, ""No, I'm gonna be good, Honey, I'm gonna be good. I am."" But I am angry. (Laughter) And the last time I looked, I'm — (Applause) So this is why I'm excited but I'm angry. This year, there are going to be millions of our children that we're going to needlessly lose, that we could — right now, we could save them all. You saw the quality of the educators who were here. Do not tell me they could not reach those kids and save them. I know they could. It is absolutely possible. Why haven't we fixed this? Those of us in education have held on to a business plan that we don't care how many millions of young people fail, we're going to continue to do the same thing that didn't work, and nobody is getting crazy about it — right? — enough to say, ""Enough is enough."" So here's a business plan that simply does not make any sense. You know, I grew up in the inner city, and there were kids who were failing in schools 56 years ago when I first went to school, and those schools are still lousy today, 56 years later. And you know something about a lousy school? It's not like a bottle of wine. Right? (Laughter) Where you say, like, '87 was like a good year, right? That's now how this thing — I mean, every single year, it's still the same approach, right? One size fits all, if you get it, fine, and if you don't, tough luck. Just tough luck. Why haven't we allowed innovation to happen? Do not tell me we can't do better than this. Look, you go into a place that's failed kids for 50 years, and you say, ""So what's the plan?"" And they say, ""We'll, we're going to do what we did last year this year."" What kind of business model is that? Banks used to open and operate between 10 and 3. They operated 10 to 3. They were closed for lunch hour. Now, who can bank between 10 and 3? The unemployed. They don't need banks. They got no money in the banks. Who created that business model? Right? And it went on for decades. You know why? Because they didn't care. It wasn't about the customers. It was about bankers. They created something that worked for them. How could you go to the bank when you were at work? It didn't matter. And they don't care whether or not Geoff is upset he can't go to the bank. Go find another bank. They all operate the same way. Right? Now, one day, some crazy banker had an idea. Maybe we should keep the bank open when people come home from work. They might like that. What about a Saturday? What about introducing technology? Now look, I'm a technology fan, but I have to admit to you all I'm a little old. So I was a little slow, and I did not trust technology, and when they first came out with those new contraptions, these tellers that you put in a card and they give you money, I was like, ""There's no way that machine is going to count that money right. I am never using that, right?"" So technology has changed. Things have changed. Yet not in education. Why? Why is it that when we had rotary phones, when we were having folks being crippled by polio, that we were teaching the same way then that we're doing right now? And if you come up with a plan to change things, people consider you radical. They will say the worst things about you. I said one day, well, look, if the science says — this is science, not me — that our poorest children lose ground in the summertime — You see where they are in June and say, okay, they're there. You look at them in September, they've gone down. You say, whoo! So I heard about that in '75 when I was at the Ed School at Harvard. I said, ""Oh, wow, this is an important study."" Because it suggests we should do something. (Laughter) Every 10 years they reproduce the same study. It says exactly the same thing: Poor kids lose ground in the summertime. The system decides you can't run schools in the summer. You know, I always wonder, who makes up those rules? For years I went to — Look, I went the Harvard Ed School. I thought I knew something. They said it was the agrarian calendar, and people had — but let me tell you why that doesn't make sense. I never got that. I never got that, because anyone knows if you farm, you don't plant crops in July and August. You plant them in the spring. So who came up with this idea? Who owns it? Why did we ever do it? Well it just turns out in the 1840s we did have, schools were open all year. They were open all year, because we had a lot of folks who had to work all day. They didn't have any place for their kids to go. It was a perfect place to have schools. So this is not something that is ordained from the education gods. So why don't we? Why don't we? Because our business has refused to use science. Science. You have Bill Gates coming out and saying, ""Look, this works, right? We can do this."" How many places in America are going to change? None. None. Okay, yeah, there are two. All right? Yes, there'll be some place, because some folks will do the right thing. As a profession, we have to stop this. The science is clear. Here's what we know. We know that the problem begins immediately. Right? This idea, zero to three. My wife, Yvonne, and I, we have four kids, three grown ones and a 15-year-old. That's a longer story. (Laughter) With our first kids, we did not know the science about brain development. We didn't know how critical those first three years were. We didn't know what was happening in those young brains. We didn't know the role that language, a stimulus and response, call and response, how important that was in developing those children. We know that now. What are we doing about it? Nothing. Wealthy people know. Educated people know. And their kids have an advantage. Poor people don't know, and we're not doing anything to help them at all. But we know this is critical. Now, you take pre-kindergarten. We know it's important for kids. Poor kids need that experience. Nope. Lots of places, it doesn't exist. We know health services matter. You know, we provide health services and people are always fussing at me about, you know, because I'm all into accountability and data and all of that good stuff, but we do health services, and I have to raise a lot of money. People used to say when they'd come fund us, ""Geoff, why do you provide these health services?"" I used to make stuff up. Right? I'd say, ""Well, you know a child who has cavities is not going to, uh, be able to study as well."" And I had to because I had to raise the money. But now I'm older, and you know what I tell them? You know why I provide kids with those health benefits and the sports and the recreation and the arts? Because I actually like kids. I actually like kids. (Laughter) (Applause) But when they really get pushy, people really get pushy, I say, ""I do it because you do it for your kid."" And you've never read a study from MIT that says giving your kid dance instruction is going to help them do algebra better, but you will give that kid dance instruction, and you will be thrilled that that kid wants to do dance instruction, and it will make your day. And why shouldn't poor kids have the same opportunity? It's the floor for these children. (Applause) So here's the other thing. I'm a tester guy. I believe you need data, you need information, because you work at something, you think it's working, and you find out it's not working. I mean, you're educators. You work, you say, you think you've got it, great, no? And you find out they didn't get it. But here's the problem with testing. The testing that we do — we're going to have our test in New York next week — is in April. You know when we're going to get the results back? Maybe July, maybe June. And the results have great data. They'll tell you Raheem really struggled, couldn't do two-digit multiplication — so great data, but you're getting it back after school is over. And so, what do you do? You go on vacation. (Laughter) You come back from vacation. Now you've got all of this test data from last year. You don't look at it. Why would you look at it? You're going to go and teach this year. So how much money did we just spend on all of that? Billions and billions of dollars for data that it's too late to use. I need that data in September. I need that data in November. I need to know you're struggling, and I need to know whether or not what I did corrected that. I need to know that this week. I don't need to know that at the end of the year when it's too late. Because in my older years, I've become somewhat of a clairvoyant. I can predict school scores. You take me to any school. I'm really good at inner city schools that are struggling. And you tell me last year 48 percent of those kids were on grade level. And I say, ""Okay, what's the plan, what did we do from last year to this year?"" You say, ""We're doing the same thing."" I'm going to make a prediction. (Laughter) This year, somewhere between 44 and 52 percent of those kids will be on grade level. And I will be right every single time. So we're spending all of this money, but we're getting what? Teachers need real information right now about what's happening to their kids. The high stakes is today, because you can do something about it. So here's the other issue that I just think we've got to be concerned about. We can't stifle innovation in our business. We have to innovate. And people in our business get mad about innovation. They get angry if you do something different. If you try something new, people are always like, ""Ooh, charter schools."" Hey, let's try some stuff. Let's see. This stuff hasn't worked for 55 years. Let's try something different. And here's the rub. Some of it's not going to work. You know, people tell me, ""Yeah, those charter schools, a lot of them don't work."" A lot of them don't. They should be closed. I mean, I really believe they should be closed. But we can't confuse figuring out the science and things not working with we shouldn't therefore do anything. Right? Because that's not the way the world works. If you think about technology, imagine if that's how we thought about technology. Every time something didn't work, we just threw in the towel and said, ""Let's forget it."" Right? You know, they convinced me. I'm sure some of you were like me — the latest and greatest thing, the PalmPilot. They told me, ""Geoff, if you get this PalmPilot you'll never need another thing."" That thing lasted all of three weeks. It was over. I was so disgusted I spent my money on this thing. Did anybody stop inventing? Not a person. Not a soul. The folks went out there. They kept inventing. The fact that you have failure, that shouldn't stop you from pushing the science forward. Our job as educators, there's some stuff we know that we can do. And we've got to do better. The evaluation, we have to start with kids earlier, we have to make sure that we provide the support to young people. We've got to give them all of these opportunities. So that we have to do. But this innovation issue, this idea that we've got to keep innovating until we really nail this science down is something that is absolutely critical. And this is something, by the way, that I think is going to be a challenge for our entire field. America cannot wait another 50 years to get this right. We have run out of time. I don't know about a fiscal cliff, but I know there's an educational cliff that we are walking over right this very second, and if we allow folks to continue this foolishness about saying we can't afford this — So Bill Gates says it's going to cost five billion dollars. What is five billion dollars to the United States? What did we spend in Afghanistan this year? How many trillions? (Applause) When the country cares about something, we'll spend a trillion dollars without blinking an eye. When the safety of America is threatened, we will spend any amount of money. The real safety of our nation is preparing this next generation so that they can take our place and be the leaders of the world when it comes to thinking and technology and democracy and all that stuff we care about. I dare say it's a pittance, what it would require for us to really begin to solve some of these problems. So once we do that, I'll no longer be angry. (Laughter) So, you guys, help me get there. Thank you all very much. Thank you. (Applause) John Legend: So what is the high school dropout rate at Harlem Children's Zone? Geoffrey Canada: Well, you know, John, 100 percent of our kids graduated high school last year in my school. A hundred percent of them went to college. This year's seniors will have 100 percent graduating high school. Last I heard we had 93 percent accepted to college. We'd better get that other seven percent. So that's just how this goes. (Applause) JL: So how do you stick with them after they leave high school? GC: Well, you know, one of the bad problems we have in this country is these kids, the same kids, these same vulnerable kids, when you get them in school, they drop out in record numbers. And so we've figured out that you've got to really design a network of support for these kids that in many ways mimics what a good parent does. They harass you, right? They call you, they say, ""I want to see your grades. How'd you do on that last test? What are you talking about that you want to leave school? And you're not coming back here."" So a bunch of my kids know you can't come back to Harlem because Geoff is looking for you. They're like, ""I really can't come back."" No. You'd better stay in school. But I'm not kidding about some of this, and it gets a little bit to the grit issue. When kids know that you refuse to let them fail, it puts a different pressure on them, and they don't give up as easy. So sometimes they don't have it inside, and they're, like, ""You know, I don't want to do this, but I know my mother's going to be mad."" Well, that matters to kids, and it helps get them through. We try to create a set of strategies that gets them tutoring and help and support, but also a set of encouragements that say to them, ""You can do it. It is going to be hard, but we refuse to let you fail."" JL: Well, thank you Dr. Canada. Please give it up for him one more time. (Applause)"	我有點緊張，因為我太太怡芳對我說她說，「傑夫，你有看過TED演講吧。」 我說，「有啊，寶貝，我很愛TED演講。」 她說，「你知道嗎，他們就像，真的很聰明，很有才——。」 我說，「我知道，我知道。」（笑聲） 她說，「他們不想看像是，氣呼呼的黑人。」（笑聲） 所以我說，「不會，我會好好表現，寶貝。我會好好表現。我一定會。」但我的確很生氣（笑聲）上台前最後一次看看自己我還是看起來很生氣 （掌聲）我很興奮但生氣的原因是今年我們會毫不必要地失去數百萬的孩子我們本來可以，就是現在我們本來可以拯救他們你們剛剛都看到了在這裡的教育家的品質不要告訴我他們不能伸手拯救他們。我知道他們能絕對可能那為什麼我們還沒解決這個問題？我們這些教育界的人只堅持教育企劃案卻不在乎有多少百萬的年輕人會失敗我們就是要繼續做這件沒有成效的事也沒人真的會在乎，對吧？──足以讓我們說，「受夠了！」所以這就是沒有任何意義的教育企劃案 你知道，我生長在貧民區56 年前當我第一次上學時那時學校已經有失敗的孩子56 年之後，今天這些學校依然很爛你知道爛學校是什麼樣嗎？它絕不像一瓶葡萄酒對吧？（笑聲）對酒你會說像是87年份是好酒，是吧？而現在這件事怎樣——我是說每年都一樣仍然是同樣的方式，對吧？標準尺碼，如果你穿的下，那很好但如果你穿不下算你倒霉。只能算你倒霉。為什麼我們不能創新？不要對我說我們不能比現在更好 聽著，你到一所過去 50 年都失敗的學校你說，「那，你有什麼計劃？」他們說，「我們會，我們要跟去年一樣。」這是什麼經營模式？以前銀行都只從上午十點開到下午三點他們十點到三點營業他們還有午間休息到底誰會在十點到三點間去銀行？無業遊民！他們不需要去銀行他們根本沒錢存銀行是誰創造了這樣的營運模式？對吧？而這居然持續了數十年你知道為什麼嗎？因為他們不在乎這與客戶無關這跟銀行家有關他們創造對自己有用的模式你在上班的時候要怎麼去銀行？誰管你他們才不管傑夫會不會生氣反正他也不會去銀行讓他去找別間銀行吧每間銀行都是同樣的模式。對吧？直到有一天有個瘋狂銀行家有個想法或許我們應該讓銀行開到大家下班以後客戶應該會喜歡這點吧？那星期六呢？要不要引進科技？ 你看喔，我是個科技迷，但我得承認我已經有點年紀了所以我反應有點慢而且我也不太信任科技他們第一次引進這些新玩意的時候這些自動櫃員機讓你插一張卡就可以領錢我心想，「這些機器絕不可能算對錢。我才不要用。對吧？」 所以科技進步了，情況不同了但教育卻依然一樣。為什麼？為什麼我們還在以老式電話時代還有人感染小兒麻痺變成瘸子的時代那些老方法來教導我們的孩子呢？而且如果你提出一個計劃要改變事情大家就覺得你很極端他們會以最壞的話來攻擊你我說有一天，嗯，聽好，如果科學說——這是科學的證據，不是我隨口說說——就是我們最貧窮的孩子會在暑假時嚴重落後——你知道你在六月看到他們來學校你說很好，他們都還來上學到了九月你再去看他們，他們都不見了你大叫，哇！所以我在75年聽到這現象當時我在哈佛的教育學院我說，「喔，哇，這是很重要的研究。」因為這顯示我們該為之做點什麼（笑聲）每隔十年他們就會提出同樣的研究報告總是說著同樣的事情窮小孩到了夏天就落後了教育體制決定你不能在夏天開學 你知道嗎我總是搞不懂是誰決定這個的憑我多年在——聽好，我上過哈佛教育學院我還以為我懂些什麼他們說這是因為農民曆的關係且大家會——但讓我告訴你為什麼這沒道理我老是搞不懂，我永遠也搞不懂因為如果你作農，每個人都知道你不會在七月八月的時候種作物你在春天的時候種植所以是誰想出這個點子？是誰？為什麼我們會這麼做？原來在1840年代，我們的確是讓學校開一整年，一整年都要上課的因為那時候有很多人一整天都要工作他們沒地方讓孩子去所以學校變成完美的解決方法所以這不是教育之神一開始就規定的事 所以為什麼不能開一整年？為什麼不可以？因為我們這一行不想運用科學科學。你聽到比爾蓋茲剛剛上台說了「聽好，這會成功，對吧！我們可以做。」美國有多少地方會因此而改變？沒有地方。沒有地方。好啦，是啦！有兩個地方會。好吧？是的，會有一些地方會改變因為那裡的人會做正確的事我們身為專業人應該停止這件事科學研究很清楚 以下是我們知道的我們知道這問題從出生就開始是吧？這個想法，零到三歲的教育我太太怡芳和我，我們有四個孩子三個已成人，一個十五歲這個故事要講更久（笑聲）我們生第一胎時不知道科學對腦部發展的研究我們不知道前三年是重要關鍵我們不知道那些小腦袋裡發生什麼事我們不知道語言的角色刺激及反應，呼喊及迴響這些對小孩子的發展有多重要我們現在知道了那我們做了什麼嗎？什麼都沒有有錢人知道這些，受過教育的人知道這些人的孩子因此有了優勢窮人卻不知道而我們也沒有做任何事幫助他們瞭解但我們知道這很關鍵 現在你會送小孩去幼稚園我們知道那對小孩很重要窮人家的小孩需要那種經驗沒有。很多地方都沒有這東西我們知道健保很重要你知道，我們提供健保大家總是對我吵來吵去，你知道因為我是負責人又有資料還有那些好東西，但我們有提供健保而我得去募很多錢以前大家在資助我們時都會這樣說「傑夫，你為什麼要提供健保？」我常常要編一些理由。是吧我會說，「呃，你知道一個孩子有蛀牙的話就，呃，學習效果不好。」而我一定要胡扯，因為我得募款但現在我老了點你知道我會跟他們說什麼嗎？你知道我為什麼要提供健保給孩子？還有育樂、藝術活動嗎？因為我真的很喜歡小孩我是真的喜歡小孩（笑聲）（鼓掌） 但當他們一直逼問一定要逼出一個答案我就會說，「我做是因為你也替你的孩子保了。」你絕不會讀到麻省理工的研究說讓你的孩子上跳舞課可以幫助他們學代數學得更好但你還是會讓孩子上跳舞課你也會很驚訝地發現孩子想要上跳舞課那會讓你一整天都很開心那為什麼窮人家的小孩不能也有相同的機會？這是那些孩子們的基礎（掌聲） 那麼還有另外一件事我是個喜歡測驗的人我相信你需要數據，你需要資料因為如果你正在做某計畫而你認為這會成功而你發現其實並不成功我是說，你們是教育家你教小孩，你說你認為你教成功了，好棒！其實不然？你發現孩子們就是不懂但這是學力評估測驗的問題我們作測驗的時間我們下週即將在紐約作學力測驗通常在四月你知道你什麼時候才會拿到結果？可能是七月。可能是六月而且這結果有很棒的資料資料上會告訴你小明真的有困難學習不會做兩位數乘法——好棒的資料但你拿到這資料的時候學年已經結束了所以你會怎麼做？放假去也！（笑聲）等你從假期回來現在你拿到的測驗結果都是上學年的了你看都不看一眼何必要看？你已經去教新學年的班了所以我們到底花了多少錢在這些測驗上？幾十億美金在那些來得太晚無用的資料上我九月就需要那項資料我十一月就需要那項資料我必須知道你在努力掙扎我必須知道我到底有沒有幫助到你我這星期就該知道我不要在學年末，當一切都太遲的時後才知道這些事 因為過去的經驗我已經變成像個千里眼我可以預測學校評分你帶我去任何一所學校我對那些位於貧民區還在掙扎的學校特別準你告訴我去年有48％的孩童都能及格升級我會說，「好，那計劃是什麼？我們從去年到今年做了些什麼？」你說，「我們依樣畫葫蘆。」我現在就要掐指算算（笑聲）今年，大約有44％到52％的學童會及格升級每次我都準的不得了 所以我們花了這麼多錢，得到了什麼？教師現在就需要到底他們的學童表現如何的真實資料今天就該做高風險學力測驗因為你還來的及做些什麼 那麼還有另一個我真的覺得我們必須關注的問題我們不能在這行裡扼殺創新我們必須創新。而我們這行的人對創新總是氣的不得了如果你做些不一樣的事他們會生氣如果你嘗試新東西，大家總是像這樣「喔，特許學校。」嘿！來試試這個吧。來看看會怎樣。這個東西過去55年沒有成功過讓我們試試別的。但實情是這樣有些東西是沒有用你知道，大家都跟我說，「對啦，特許學校，大多都沒用。」大多是沒用應該把這些沒用的關掉我是說，我真的相信應該要關掉那些沒用的學校但我們不該把搞科學與因沒用而放棄的事物混為一談對吧？因為這世界不是這樣運作的 如果你想想科技想像一下如果我們對科技也是這樣想每一次有東西不成功我們就把它束之高閣且說「算了！」是這樣嗎？你知道，他們說服了我——我確信在座有人跟我一樣最新及最偉大的，PDA（掌上電腦）他們跟我說，「傑夫，如果你拿了這個PDA，你就不需要別的東西了。」那玩意只維持了三個星期。玩完了我真是討厭死自己居然花錢買這個東西那是不是因此他們就不再創新？才沒有。沒有一個靈魂放棄這件事這些傢伙還是繼續下去他們繼續創新發明事實是就算你失敗了這也不該讓你停止把科學推陳出新 我們的工作，身為教育者我們知道有些事我們能做而且我們還能做的更好學力測驗要早點做在孩子上我們必須確保我們提供年輕人支援我們得給他們這些機會因此那些我們要做。但這個創新問題這個想法，就是我們必須持續創新直到我們真的抓到了科學方法絕對是很重要的東西 而順帶一提，這也是我認為對我們整個領域的一項挑戰美國不能再等50年把這個搞好我們已經沒有時間了我不知道財政懸崖但我知道有個教育懸崖就在當下這一秒我們正走在那上面而如果我們讓這些人繼續這樣的蠢事說我們負擔不起──所以比爾蓋茲說這會花掉五十億美金對美國而言五十億美金算什麼？今年我們在阿富汗戰爭上花掉了多少？幾兆？（掌聲） 當這個國家關注某事我們眼也不貶就花掉幾兆美金當美國的安全受到威脅再多的錢我們也願意花真正能讓我們國家安全的方法是要把下一代準備好所以他們能繼續我們的地位成為全球的領導者領導思維，科技及民主及所有我們關注的事物我敢說這花費極微要我們今天就開始解決這些問題 所以一但我們這樣做了我就不會氣呼呼了（笑聲）所以各位，幫我一把吧！謝謝各位。謝謝（掌聲） 約翰傳奇：所以哈林兒童區的高中輟學率是多少？ 傑佛瑞·卡納達：嗯，你知道，約翰去年我學校高中生的畢業率是百分之百百分之百的學生都進了大學今年的高三生也會百分之百畢業最新消息是我們的學生有93％被大學錄取我們最好是把剩下7％也送進去所以這就是目前的情況（掌聲） 約：所以他們離開高中後你要如何繼續盯他們？ 傑：嗯，你知道，我們這個國家有個爛攤子，這些孩子就是這群孩子這群弱勢孩子，你把他們送進學校他們的輟學率總是創歷史新高所以我們必須想辦法真的設計出一套支援網絡給孩子，在各方面模仿好家長的角色他們會煩你，對吧？他們打電話問你「我要看你的成績單。上次你考得怎樣？你在說什麼？要離開學校？你不想回來了？」所以我那群孩子知道你回不了哈林因為傑夫要找你他們會說，「我真的不能回來。」不行，你最好待在學校但我真的不是在說笑這跟堅毅力有點關係當孩子知道你拒絕他們失敗這給他們施加了不太一樣的壓力他們因此不會輕易放棄所以有時候他們並不是出自內心他們會說，像是，「你知道，我並不想做這個，但是我知道我媽會很生氣。」沒錯，那對孩子很重要而且幫助孩子渡過難關我們除了試著創造一套策略來輔導幫助及支持他們同時也有一套鼓勵的方法對他們說，「你辦得到。是很難，但我們不會讓你失敗。」 約：那麼，謝謝卡納達博士讓我們再給他一次熱烈的掌聲 （掌聲）
