Talk	en	zh-tw
george_smoot_on_the_design_of_the_universe	I thought I would think about changing your perspective on the world a bit, and showing you some of the designs that we have in nature. And so, I have my first slide to talk about the dawning of the universe and what I call the cosmic scene investigation, that is, looking at the relics of creation and inferring what happened at the beginning, and then following it up and trying to understand it. And so one of the questions that I asked you is, when you look around, what do you see? Well, you see this space that's created by designers and by the work of people, but what you actually see is a lot of material that was already here, being reshaped in a certain form. And so the question is: how did that material get here? How did it get into the form that it had before it got reshaped, and so forth? It's a question of what's the continuity? So one of the things I look at is, how did the universe begin and shape? What was the whole process in the creation and the evolution of the universe to getting to the point that we have these kinds of materials? So that's sort of the part, and let me move on then and show you the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. If you look at this picture, what you will see is a lot of dark with some light objects in it. And everything but — four of these light objects are stars, and you can see them there — little pluses. This is a star, this is a star, everything else is a galaxy, OK? So there's a couple of thousand galaxies you can see easily with your eye in here. And when I look out at particularly this galaxy, which looks a lot like ours, I wonder if there's an art design college conference going on, and intelligent beings there are thinking about, you know, what designs they might do, and there might be a few cosmologists trying to understand where the universe itself came from, and there might even be some in that galaxy looking at ours trying to figure out what's going on over here. But there's a lot of other galaxies, and some are nearby, and they're kind of the color of the Sun, and some are further away and they're a little bluer, and so forth. But one of the questions is — this should be, to you — how come there are so many galaxies? Because this represents a very clean fraction of the sky. This is only 1,000 galaxies. We think there's on the order — visible to the Hubble Space Telescope, if you had the time to scan it around — about 100 billion galaxies. Right? It's a very large number of galaxies. And that's roughly how many stars there are in our own galaxy. But when you look at some of these regions like this, you'll see more galaxies than stars, which is kind of a conundrum. So the question should come to your mind is, what kind of design, you know, what kind of creative process and what kind of design produced the world like that? And then I'm going to show you it's actually a lot more complicated. We're going to try and follow it up. We have a tool that actually helps us out in this study, and that's the fact that the universe is so incredibly big that it's a time machine, in a certain sense. We draw this set of nested spheres cut away so you see it. Put the Earth at the center of the nested spheres, just because that's where we're making observations. And the moon is only two seconds away, so if you take a picture of the moon using ordinary light, it's the moon two seconds ago, and who cares. Two seconds is like the present. The Sun is eight minutes ago. That's not such a big deal, right, unless there's solar flares coming then you want to get out the way. You'd like to have a little advance warning. But you get out to Jupiter and it's 40 minutes away. It's a problem. You hear about Mars, it's a problem communicating to Mars because it takes light long enough to go there. But if you look out to the nearest set of stars, to the nearest 40 or 50 stars, it's about 10 years. So if you take a picture of what's going on, it's 10 years ago. But you go and look to the center of the galaxy, it's thousands of years ago. If you look at Andromeda, which is the nearest big galaxy, and it's two million years ago. If you took a picture of the Earth two million years ago, there'd be no evidence of humans at all, because we don't think there were humans yet. I mean, it just gives you the scale. With the Hubble Space Telescope, we're looking at hundreds of millions of years to a billion years. But if we were capable to come up with an idea of how to look even further — there's some things even further, and that was what I did in a lot of my work, was to develop the techniques — we could look out back to even earlier epochs before there were stars and before there were galaxies, back to when the universe was hot and dense and very different. And so that's the sort of sequence, and so I have a more artistic impression of this. There's the galaxy in the middle, which is the Milky Way, and around that are the Hubble — you know, nearby kind of galaxies, and there's a sphere that marks the different times. And behind that are some more modern galaxies. You see the whole big picture? The beginning of time is funny — it's on the outside, right? And then there's a part of the universe we can't see because it's so dense and so hot, light can't escape. It's like you can't see to the center of the Sun; you have to use other techniques to know what's going on inside the Sun. But you can see the edge of the Sun, and the universe gets that way, and you can see that. And then you see this sort of model area around the outside, and that is the radiation coming from the Big Bang, which is actually incredibly uniform. The universe is almost a perfect sphere, but there are these very tiny variations which we show here in great exaggeration. And from them in the time sequence we're going to have to go from these tiny variations to these irregular galaxies and first stars to these more advanced galaxies, and eventually the solar system, and so forth. So it's a big design job, but we'll see about how things are going on. So the way these measurements were done, there's been a set of satellites, and this is where you get to see. So there was the COBE satellite, which was launched in 1989, and we discovered these variations. And then in 2000, the MAP satellite was launched — the WMAP — and it made somewhat better pictures. And later this year — this is the cool stealth version, the one that actually has some beautiful design features to it, and you should look — the Planck satellite will be launched, and it will make very high-resolution maps. And that will be the sequence of understanding the very beginning of the universe. And what we saw was, we saw these variations, and then they told us the secrets, both about the structure of space-time, and about the contents of the universe, and about how the universe started in its original motions. So we have this picture, which is quite a spectacular picture, and I'll come back to the beginning, where we're going to have some mysterious process that kicks the universe off at the beginning. And we go through a period of accelerating expansion, and the universe expands and cools until it gets to the point where it becomes transparent, then to the Dark Ages, and then the first stars turn on, and they evolve into galaxies, and then later they get to the more expansive galaxies. And somewhere around this period is when our solar system started forming. And it's maturing up to the present time. And there's some spectacular things. And this wastebasket part, that's to represent what the structure of space-time itself is doing during this period. And so this is a pretty weird model, right? What kind of evidence do we have for that? So let me show you some of nature's patterns that are the result of this. I always think of space-time as being the real substance of space, and the galaxies and the stars just like the foam on the ocean. It's a marker of where the interesting waves are and whatever went on. So here is the Sloan Digital Sky Survey showing the location of a million galaxies. So there's a dot on here for every galaxy. They go out and point a telescope at the sky, take a picture, identify what are stars and throw them away, look at the galaxies, estimate how far away they are, and plot them up. And just put radially they're going out that way. And you see these structures, this thing we call the Great Wall, but there are voids and those kinds of stuff, and they kind of fade out because the telescope isn't sensitive enough to do it. Now I'm going to show you this in 3D. What happens is, you take pictures as the Earth rotates, you get a fan across the sky. There are some places you can't look because of our own galaxy, or because there are no telescopes available to do it. So the next picture shows you the three-dimensional version of this rotating around. Do you see the fan-like scans made across the sky? Remember, every spot on here is a galaxy, and you see the galaxies, you know, sort of in our neighborhood, and you sort of see the structure. And you see this thing we call the Great Wall, and you see the complicated structure, and you see these voids. There are places where there are no galaxies and there are places where there are thousands of galaxies clumped together, right. So there's an interesting pattern, but we don't have enough data here to actually see the pattern. We only have a million galaxies, right? So we're keeping, like, a million balls in the air but, what's going on? There's another survey which is very similar to this, called the Two-degree Field of View Galaxy Redshift Survey. Now we're going to fly through it at warp a million. And every time there's a galaxy — at its location there's a galaxy — and if we know anything about the galaxy, which we do, because there's a redshift measurement and everything, you put in the type of galaxy and the color, so this is the real representation. And when you're in the middle of the galaxies it's hard to see the pattern; it's like being in the middle of life. It's hard to see the pattern in the middle of the audience, it's hard to see the pattern of this. So we're going to go out and swing around and look back at this. And you'll see, first, the structure of the survey, and then you'll start seeing the structure of the galaxies that we see out there. So again, you can see the extension of this Great Wall of galaxies showing up here. But you can see the voids, you can see the complicated structure, and you say, well, how did this happen? Suppose you're the cosmic designer. How are you going to put galaxies out there in a pattern like that? It's not just throwing them out at random. There's a more complicated process going on here. How are you going to end up doing that? And so now we're in for some serious play. That is, we have to seriously play God, not just change people's lives, but make the universe, right. So if that's your responsibility, how are you going to do that? What's the kind of technique? What's the kind of thing you're going to do? So I'm going to show you the results of a very large-scale simulation of what we think the universe might be like, using, essentially, some of the play principles and some of the design principles that, you know, humans have labored so hard to pick up, but apparently nature knew how to do at the beginning. And that is, you start out with very simple ingredients and some simple rules, but you have to have enough ingredients to make it complicated. And then you put in some randomness, some fluctuations and some randomness, and realize a whole bunch of different representations. So what I'm going to do is show you the distribution of matter as a function of scales. We're going to zoom in, but this is a plot of what it is. And we had to add one more thing to make the universe come out right. It's called dark matter. That is matter that doesn't interact with light the typical way that ordinary matter does, the way the light's shining on me or on the stage. It's transparent to light, but in order for you to see it, we're going to make it white. OK? So the stuff that's in this picture that's white, that is the dark matter. It should be called invisible matter, but the dark matter we've made visible. And the stuff that is in the yellow color, that is the ordinary kind of matter that's turned into stars and galaxies. So I'll show you the next movie. So this — we're going to zoom in. Notice this pattern and pay attention to this pattern. We're going to zoom in and zoom in. And you'll see there are all these filaments and structures and voids. And when a number of filaments come together in a knot, that makes a supercluster of galaxies. This one we're zooming in on is somewhere between 100,000 and a million galaxies in that small region. So we live in the boonies. We don't live in the center of the solar system, we don't live in the center of the galaxy and our galaxy's not in the center of the cluster. So we're zooming in. This is a region which probably has more than 100,000, on the order of a million galaxies in that region. We're going to keep zooming in. OK. And so I forgot to tell you the scale. A parsec is 3.26 light years. So a gigaparsec is three billion light years — that's the scale. So it takes light three billion years to travel over that distance. Now we're into a distance sort of between here and here. That's the distance between us and Andromeda, right? These little specks that you're seeing in here, they're galaxies. Now we're going to zoom back out, and you can see this structure that, when we get very far out, looks very regular, but it's made up of a lot of irregular variations. So they're simple building blocks. There's a very simple fluid to begin with. It's got dark matter, it's got ordinary matter, it's got photons and it's got neutrinos, which don't play much role in the later part of the universe. And it's just a simple fluid and it, over time, develops into this complicated structure. And so you know when you first saw this picture, it didn't mean quite so much to you. Here you're looking across one percent of the volume of the visible universe and you're seeing billions of galaxies, right, and nodes, but you realize they're not even the main structure. There's a framework, which is the dark matter, the invisible matter, that's out there that's actually holding it all together. So let's fly through it, and you can see how much harder it is when you're in the middle of something to figure this out. So here's that same end result. You see a filament, you see the light is the invisible matter, and the yellow is the stars or the galaxies showing up. And we're going to fly around, and we'll fly around, and you'll see occasionally a couple of filaments intersect, and you get a large cluster of galaxies. And then we'll fly in to where the very large cluster is, and you can see what it looks like. And so from inside, it doesn't look very complicated, right? It's only when you look at it at a very large scale, and explore it and so forth, you realize it's a very intricate, complicated kind of a design, right? And it's grown up in some kind of way. So the question is, how hard would it be to assemble this, right? How big a contractor team would you need to put this universe together, right? That's the issue, right? And so here we are. You see how the filament — you see how several filaments are coming together, therefore making this supercluster of galaxies. And you have to understand, this is not how it would actually look if you — first, you can't travel this fast, everything would be distorted, but this is using simple rendering and graphic arts kind of stuff. This is how, if you took billions of years to go around, it might look to you, right? And if you could see invisible matter, too. And so the idea is, you know, how would you put together the universe in a very simple way? We're going to start and realize that the entire visible universe, everything we can see in every direction with the Hubble Space Telescope plus our other instruments, was once in a region that was smaller than an atom. It started with tiny quantum mechanical fluctuations, but expanding at a tremendous rate. And those fluctuations were stretched to astronomical sizes, and those fluctuations eventually are the things we see in the cosmic microwave background. And then we needed some way to turn those fluctuations into galaxies and clusters of galaxies and make these kinds of structures go on. So I'm going to show you a smaller simulation. This simulation was run on 1,000 processors for a month in order to make just this simple visible one. So I'm going to show you one that can be run on a desktop in two days in the next picture. So you start out with teeny fluctuations when the universe was at this point, now four times smaller, and so forth. And you start seeing these networks, this cosmic web of structure forming. And this is a simple one, because it doesn't have the ordinary matter and it just has the dark matter in it. And you see how the dark matter lumps up, and the ordinary matter just trails along behind. So there it is. At the beginning it's very uniform. The fluctuations are a part in 100,000. There are a few peaks that are a part in 10,000, and then over billions of years, gravity just pulls in. This is light over density, pulls the material around in. That pulls in more material and pulls in more material. But the distances on the universe are so large and the time scales are so large that it takes a long time for this to form. And it keeps forming until the universe is roughly about half the size it is now, in terms of its expansion. And at that point, the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger-scale structure. So we're just seeing as large a scale structure as we can see, and then only things that have started forming already are going to form, and then from then on it's going to go on. So we're able to do the simulation, but this is two days on a desktop. We need, you know, 30 days on 1,000 processors to do the kind of simulation that I showed you before. So we have an idea of how to play seriously, creating the universe by starting with essentially less than an eyedrop full of material, and we create everything we can see in any direction, right, from almost nothing — that is, something extremely tiny, extremely small — and it is almost perfect, except it has these tiny fluctuations at a part in 100,000 level, which turn out to produce the interesting patterns and designs we see, that is, galaxies and stars and so forth. So we have a model, and we can calculate it, and we can use it to make designs of what we think the universe really looks like. And that design is sort of way beyond what our original imagination ever was. So this is what we started with 15 years ago, with the Cosmic Background Explorer — made the map on the upper right, which basically showed us that there were large-scale fluctuations, and actually fluctuations on several scales. You can kind of see that. Since then we've had WMAP, which just gives us higher angular resolution. We see the same large-scale structure, but we see additional small-scale structure. And on the bottom right is if the satellite had flipped upside down and mapped the Earth, what kind of a map we would have got of the Earth. You can see, well, you can, kind of pick out all the major continents, but that's about it. But what we're hoping when we get to Planck, we'll have resolution about equivalent to the resolution you see of the Earth there, where you can really see the complicated pattern that exists on the Earth. And you can also tell, because of the sharp edges and the way things fit together, there are some non-linear processes. Geology has these effects, which is moving the plates around and so forth. You can see that just from the map alone. We want to get to the point in our maps of the early universe we can see whether there are any non-linear effects that are starting to move, to modify, and are giving us a hint about how space-time itself was actually created at the beginning moments. So that's where we are today, and that's what I wanted to give you  a flavor of. Give you a different view about what the design and what everything else looks like. Thank you. (Applause)	"我想要對大家的世界觀做一點點改變也帶你看看自然的設計由此, 第一頁 是為了說明我所謂的 宇宙的曙光宇宙學的偵查現場 也就是 觀察創世後的物體 來推論宇宙之生成與發展跟隨現象 再試圖了解 所以 第一個想問的問題就是你的四週 你看到什麼?你可能見到這個充滿設計的空間都是人工作成 但你真的見到的是都是早就存在的物質只不過是被重組成不同型態所以問題是 這些物質是哪來的?這些物質的前身 又是如何呢?這就是什麼是連續性?所以我研究的其中之一就是宇宙是如何誕生 以及如何形塑到今?到底什麼是誕生的過程，以及如何演化到現在的物質狀態? 這就是部分簡介 就讓我繼續告訴你們有關哈柏超深景太空望遠鏡這張照片顯示大部分的黑暗 與 一些明亮物體其中四個是恆星也可以看到那小小的光芒這是恆星，這也是，其他都是銀河所以有數以千計的銀河可以很明顯的看到就讓我選個.. 這個銀河看起來很像我們的，我便好奇那裡是否也有個藝術設計學院的會議正在進行?是否有高等智慧生命在想事情他們在做怎樣的設計 或許也有一些宇宙論家在探討這個宇宙是如何產生的甚至可能有生命從這銀河 觀望我們也想知道我們在做什麼 但是 還有著其他許多的銀河 有些在附近有著太陽般的光色有的較遠些的就帶著較藍的光色那你們應該就有著一個問題怎麼會有這麼多的銀河呢?這張代表的是一部分相當清楚的天空就有著1000個銀河我們估算 假設以哈柏太空望遠鏡的解析度做全方位角的掃描會有1000億個銀河是個非常大的數字也約等於我們這個銀河有的星球數量 但再看到一些像這樣的區域銀河數量卻多於星星數目，這倒是個謎題所以冒出來的問題就是，到底是怎樣的設計?怎樣的創造過程和設計造成現今的世界?所以我得告訴各位 這些是更更複雜的就讓我們一起繼續我們有一工具幫助我們研究也是因為這個宇宙是如此的龐大就某種意義而言，就好像是個時光機器我們以這剖開的星球網圖做說明以地球為星球網絡的中心就只是這裡是我們的觀察點所以月球離我們2秒遠, 意思是當你對月球照相你得到的是2秒前的月球 沒差嘛!2秒的差異幾乎就算是同時吧太陽是8秒遠 也沒什麼不同 不是嗎?除非 太陽輻射風暴發生 我們想躲避就需要有足夠時間的警告 那木星呢 是40分鐘之遠 開始知道問題了就連對火星的通訊都可以是個問題因為就連光速傳遞也要好一會兒在看到那些附近的星團最近的40 50 顆 也要10年傳遞現在照張相 得到的是10年前的鄰近星球再到我們銀河的中央部份那是好幾百光年之遙看看最近的仙女座銀河也要200萬光年想像你照張200萬年前的地球根本就還沒有人類是因為我們人類尚未出現我只想給各位這樣的空間與時間概念哈柏太空望遠鏡所看到的都是1~10億光年之遙的空間與時間 如果我們能想出個方法 看到更遙遠的空間而且總是有更遙遠的那就是我大部分的工作發展這樣的技術—我們甚至能看到更早且早於星星與銀河生成前能回到宇宙還是又熱又稠密，與現在大不相同的時候這就是宇宙的故事我也有個更具藝術表達的呈現中央是個銀河 就是我們的銀河系再來是附近的銀河用球面刻畫著不同的時間距離在那之後是更現代的銀河 能了解這整個概念嗎?有趣的是 最早的時間是在外面另外是 有部分的宇宙是我們看不到的因為它們是如此的高密度與高能量, 光線不能脫離其重力場打類比是 你不能看到太陽的中心要用其他的技術來明白太陽中心是什麼所以 只能看到太陽表面宇宙觀測 也是類似道理也能以模型理論推論出外面的情況這是 來自於 宇宙初生成的大爆炸 的輻射線是相當的整齊宇宙是個相當完美的球體但也有著一些小小的變化我們將之誇大處理從時間序列 我們會經由這些小小變化到不規則星系，還有最初的星球到更進化的星系 最後帶到像太陽系統 等等 所以是一個 設計鉅作但讓我們是著了解看看所以這就是時空的測量的方法利用好幾個人造衛星 看這裡這是 COBE人造衛星 1989年升空由它 我們找到這些變異2000年 MAP人造衛星升空 就是 WMAP得到較清晰的照片那年尾 有這極棒的隱形版本它其實有極佳的設計概念可再進一步了解 接著 Planck 人造衛星即將升空它能擷取高解析度的星空地圖會帶來後續深入對宇宙生成的了解 所以 我們藉由觀察這些變異 而顯示些秘密關於時空架構的秘密也揭露了宇宙的組成物以及宇宙是如何開始最初的運動所以我們有了這想像，是個令人驚歎的想像待會再回到宇宙之最初 我們會有些神秘的程序 讓宇宙開始運轉宇宙經過了一段 加速膨脹過程因膨脹而逐漸冷卻 直到它變成透明就是黑暗期 接著最初的星球誕生這些星球再演化成星系 之後再聚集成重量級星系就差不多是此階段 我們的太陽系也開始形成成熟發展到如今其中有些奇妙的事情用這垃圾桶型來說明時空的架構 以及 時空自己各階段的變化所以這看起來是個怪異的模型, 嗯?我們又有哪些證據顯示這樣的作法呢? 容我解說 一些自然的法則以及所導致的結果我總認為 時空 才是太空的基本組成而星系與星球 就像是海洋漂浮的泡沫是有趣的波前記號 也串出進行方式這是Sloan數位天空調查 顯示了100萬個星系的座標每個星系以一個點代表他們到野外用望遠鏡指向天空 照張相確認是恆星 就忽略 只關注星系估計它們的距離 畫下它們所以是以放射狀的進行這些結構 我們稱之為 ""長城""也看到一些空缺 有些結構似乎於邊緣消失是因為 望遠鏡不夠靈敏完成判斷 現在 我要將之轉成 3-D呈現結果是 照相時隨著地球自轉 可以做扇型的涵蓋天空但有些立體角是無效的 因為被自己的銀河系所干擾與阻擋或因為沒有望遠鏡能偵測所以下張圖 就是旋轉呈現3-D星系地圖有看到橫跨天空的扇型掃描嗎?請記得 每一點代表一個銀河由銀河點 可約略看出結構所以還是可以看到 這些被稱為""長城""的也看到 複雜處 也看到空缺處看到 有些部分沒有任何星系也有些部分聚集過多星系 對吧!所以是個有趣的結構還沒有足夠的資料可看出全貌這裡只是100萬個星系 不是嗎?好像我們在空中有100萬個球到底發生了什麼?另有一個類似的調查叫做 2維星系紅位移調查 現在要飛過這些星系每經過一個星系 便標出個星系我們真的能確定它是個星系因為紅位移光譜測量 及其他事證標出星系種類及其顏色這就是這樣的呈現當你在星系中是很難察覺結構 就像處於生活中身處於觀眾中 是非常難看出結構這樣是很難看出結構的我們得利用模型 讓我們飛出之外 再 遠觀會看出這樣調查的結構會看出星系的結構要從遠處看再一次 你可以看到 星系""長城""的延伸 到這裡 但你也可以看到空缺也看到複雜結構你接著問 是怎們形成的?假設你是宇宙的設計者是怎麼讓星系做成這樣的結構?是隨機扔出去嗎?其實是有個更複雜的過程的你要如何做到呢?這就是""認真發揮"" 的過程了就是 我們要 認真地扮演是 神不只是改變人們的生與死 也要創造宇宙若那是你的責任 你要怎麼做?又是怎麼的技巧呢?又是哪些事你想去做? 我要展示的是一個非常大尺度的模擬驗證我們假設的宇宙演化 利用的只是一些 簡單原理 與 設計原理都是過去人類共同得到的原理只是宇宙一開始就順著這些原理模擬就是一些簡單的組成與一些簡單的原理但你得有足夠的組成物 來複雜化再放進些隨機特性一些擾動 再一些隨機亂數再試著理解這整組所代表的結果 接下來就是要讓你們看物體的分佈 是尺度的函數我們來放大拉近 這就是其中的一個圖示我們必須加一樣東西 才能得出較正常的結果就是黑暗物質這種物體不與光反應通常一般物體都會反射光線 就像現在舞台上與我身上的反射光黑暗物質對光而言是透明的 為了讓大家了解我們將它們暫設為白色顯示所以模擬中白色物體 就是黑暗物體應該被稱為 隱形物體只是在模型顯示上 我們將它們設成可見而黃色部分就代表一般的物體 可以是恆星與星系 我會展示一動畫電影這樣 — 我們會拉近放大注意結構變化放大再放大你可以看到這些長絲 結構 與 空缺當數個長絲 纏成 結就成了 超大巨集的星系這個再繼續拉近在畫面中那小區域內 有著 10~100萬 的星系我們存在某個角落並不是太陽系的中央也不是銀河系的中央而銀河系 也不是在所有星系的中央 所以我們再拉近這是個有著10~100萬個星系的小區域我們會持續放大拉近我忘了說明這個尺度每一秒差是 3.26光年每一百萬秒差 就是30億光年 —- 這就是模擬尺度就是光線要用30億年才能穿過那距離我們現在的距離 大約是這裡和這裡之間也就是我們距離仙女座星系的距離這些小小的雜點 都是星系 目前是退出拉遠便能看出個結構當我們非常遠觀時 看起來是非常規則但這是由許多的不規則變異所構成所以 這些就是簡單的模型組件都是些簡單的成份開始要有黑暗物體 一般物體要有光子 微中子微中子 是沒有太多角色在後期宇宙發展中就是個簡單的流動 隨時間而發展成複雜的結構當第一次看到這景象對你們而言 可能沒有太多道理這裡顯示的只是1%的可見宇宙有著10億個星系但我們還不在主要結構模擬架構 顯示 需要這種黑暗隱形物體才能將一切保持住這樣發展 再飛入其中 就會明白身處其中是如何難理解整個狀況所以這是相同結果有細絲白色代表是黑暗物體黃色是恆星與星系再飛繞過四周會看到一些細絲相交錯那是大巨集的星系再進入這些巨集星系看看是什麼樣子所以從裡面 一點也不複雜 對吧?唯有當你 以大尺度觀看時才能明白它的複雜是種複雜的設計 對吧?某種的長成方式 所以問題是是多麼困難來組合成這個?需要多大的能力才能做出這樣的宇宙?這是問題吧!就來試試可以看到細絲與好幾個細絲是如何連在一起才做出這樣的超巨集星系但是得指出 這並非真的是所見到的.所有東西會被扭曲這裡只是用繪圖工具做視覺呈現這是利用時間快轉的模擬才能察覺也是要能看見這些黑暗物體 概念是要問 怎麼將宇宙放在一起又是有一簡單的原理呢?我們就即將能明白這整個可見宇宙驗證哈柏太空望遠鏡及其他儀器所見的所有角度最先的開始只是小於 一個小小的原子來自於量子力學的擾動卻是以極速的膨脹這些擾動擴展到天文級的尺寸大小 這些擾動最終成為我們所見的宇宙背景輻射我們需要能把擾動的輻射能量變成星系與巨集星系 並使這些結構繼續 所以我將呈現一個小模擬這樣看似簡單的模擬 使用了1000個處理器還是需要耗時一個月現在呈現的是用桌上型電腦跑了兩天的結果開始小小擾動使得宇宙變小了四倍 等等便可以見到這些網絡 宇宙的網絡結構開始成型這是個簡易版本 並沒有一般物體只用了較重的黑暗物體可以看到黑暗物體開始結團成塊一般物體就也會緊隨著之後開展就是這樣一開始是非常的均勻十萬分之一的擾動也有些是萬分之一的擾動過了數十億年 重力吸引力才有作用顯現 這是因密度夠大 而能將物體拉入因吸引力集結 再集結宇宙之間的距離是如此之大時間是如此之長 所以是需要非常長的時間才能形成宇宙持續發展 就膨脹進行而言直到是目前½的大小的時候宇宙神奇的開始了加速膨脹這樣的膨脹 破開了較大的結構看到目前的能看到的最大結構就只有那些已經開始形成的會再從那時間點 繼續發展 這只是兩天的電腦簡化版運算我們需要1000 個CPU的30天運算才能展現先前的結果所以我們真的懂得如何""認真玩耍"" 來建構宇宙只用了小於一小滴淚水的物質開始建構出目前所見到各方向的物體從幾乎零開始如此的小 近乎完美除了有十萬分之一等級的細微擾動才造就了我們所看到的結構與設計就是這些星系與恆星 因此 我們有一個模型 能計算 能操弄來模擬與驗證 我們以為的宇宙也由此學到超過我們過去的想像這些模擬開始於15年前利用宇宙背景探測 建構右上角的地圖顯示了大規模的擾動實際上 有著多波段的擾動 這都可由觀測所得從有WMAP之觀測儀器後提高了三角幾何角度的解析度除了看到大尺度結構更看到額外的小尺度結構右下角 是衛星上下顛倒的影像對應到地球改有的影像就能大略看到所有主要的大陸 目前只能這麼清晰了 希望當Planck 上線時 希望解析度能有像那地球影像一般清晰能夠清晰看出地球上的形狀由於清晰後 便能夠分辨出版塊間他們是有關聯的 因為其中有些非線性的演進地理就是有這樣的效應版塊的移動等等能只從清晰地球地圖看出我們也希望能如此 得到宇宙早期歷史的清晰便能分辨出是否有其他的非線性效應是否要移動了? 要改變了? 也能給我們些提示:時空當初是如何被創造的在最初的當下所以這些就是我們目前的狀況也我想為大家分享的給大家對設計的 一個不同觀點以及宇宙所有事物的介紹謝謝(掌聲)"
