Talk	en	zh-tw
george_monbiot_for_more_wonder_rewild_the_world	"When I was a young man, I spent six years of wild adventure in the tropics working as an investigative journalist in some of the most bewitching parts of the world. I was as reckless and foolish as only young men can be. This is why wars get fought. But I also felt more alive than I've ever done since. And when I came home, I found the scope of my existence gradually diminishing until loading the dishwasher seemed like an interesting challenge. And I found myself sort of scratching at the walls of life, as if I was trying to find a way out into a wider space beyond. I was, I believe, ecologically bored. Now, we evolved in rather more challenging times than these, in a world of horns and tusks and fangs and claws. And we still possess the fear and the courage and the aggression required to navigate those times. But in our comfortable, safe, crowded lands, we have few opportunities to exercise them without harming other people. And this was the sort of constraint that I found myself bumping up against. To conquer uncertainty, to know what comes next, that's almost been the dominant aim of industrialized societies, and having got there, or almost got there, we have just encountered a new set of unmet needs. We've privileged safety over experience and we've gained a lot in doing so, but I think we've lost something too. Now, I don't romanticize evolutionary time. I'm already beyond the lifespan of most hunter-gatherers, and the outcome of a mortal combat between me myopically stumbling around with a stone-tipped spear and an enraged giant aurochs isn't very hard to predict. Nor was it authenticity that I was looking for. I don't find that a useful or even intelligible concept. I just wanted a richer and rawer life than I've been able to lead in Britain, or, indeed, that we can lead in most parts of the industrialized world. And it was only when I stumbled across an unfamiliar word that I began to understand what I was looking for. And as soon as I found that word, I realized that I wanted to devote much of the rest of my life to it. The word is ""rewilding,"" and even though rewilding is a young word, it already has several definitions. But there are two in particular that fascinate me. The first one is the mass restoration of ecosystems. One of the most exciting scientific findings of the past half century has been the discovery of widespread trophic cascades. A trophic cascade is an ecological process which starts at the top of the food chain and tumbles all the way down to the bottom, and the classic example is what happened in the Yellowstone National Park in the United States when wolves were reintroduced in 1995. Now, we all know that wolves kill various species of animals, but perhaps we're slightly less aware that they give life to many others. It sounds strange, but just follow me for a while. Before the wolves turned up, they'd been absent for 70 years. The numbers of deer, because there was nothing to hunt them, had built up and built up in the Yellowstone Park, and despite efforts by humans to control them, they'd managed to reduce much of the vegetation there to almost nothing, they'd just grazed it away. But as soon as the wolves arrived, even though they were few in number, they started to have the most remarkable effects. First, of course, they killed some of the deer, but that wasn't the major thing. Much more significantly, they radically changed the behavior of the deer. The deer started avoiding certain parts of the park, the places where they could be trapped most easily, particularly the valleys and the gorges, and immediately those places started to regenerate. In some areas, the height of the trees quintupled in just six years. Bare valley sides quickly became forests of aspen and willow and cottonwood. And as soon as that happened, the birds started moving in. The number of songbirds, of migratory birds, started to increase greatly. The number of beavers started to increase, because beavers like to eat the trees. And beavers, like wolves, are ecosystem engineers. They create niches for other species. And the dams they built in the rivers provided habitats for otters and muskrats and ducks and fish and reptiles and amphibians. The wolves killed coyotes, and as a result of that, the number of rabbits and mice began to rise, which meant more hawks, more weasels, more foxes, more badgers. Ravens and bald eagles came down to feed on the carrion that the wolves had left. Bears fed on it too, and their population began to rise as well, partly also because there were more berries growing on the regenerating shrubs, and the bears reinforced the impact of the wolves by killing some of the calves of the deer. But here's where it gets really interesting. The wolves changed the behavior of the rivers. They began to meander less. There was less erosion. The channels narrowed. More pools formed, more riffle sections, all of which were great for wildlife habitats. The rivers changed in response to the wolves, and the reason was that the regenerating forests stabilized the banks so that they collapsed less often, so that the rivers became more fixed in their course. Similarly, by driving the deer out of some places and the vegetation recovering on the valley sides, there was less soil erosion, because the vegetation stabilized that as well. So the wolves, small in number, transformed not just the ecosystem of the Yellowstone National Park, this huge area of land, but also its physical geography. Whales in the southern oceans have similarly wide-ranging effects. One of the many post-rational excuses made by the Japanese government for killing whales is that they said, ""Well, the number of fish and krill will rise and then there'll be more for people to eat."" Well, it's a stupid excuse, but it sort of kind of makes sense, doesn't it, because you'd think that whales eat huge amounts of fish and krill, so obviously take the whales away, there'll be more fish and krill. But the opposite happened. You take the whales away, and the number of krill collapses. Why would that possibly have happened? Well, it now turns out that the whales are crucial to sustaining that entire ecosystem, and one of the reasons for this is that they often feed at depth and then they come up to the surface and produce what biologists politely call large fecal plumes, huge explosions of poop right across the surface waters, up in the photic zone, where there's enough light to allow photosynthesis to take place, and those great plumes of fertilizer stimulate the growth of phytoplankton, the plant plankton at the bottom of the food chain, which stimulate the growth of zooplankton, which feed the fish and the krill and all the rest of it. The other thing that whales do is that, as they're plunging up and down through the water column, they're kicking the phytoplankton back up towards the surface where it can continue to survive and reproduce. And interestingly, well, we know that plant plankton in the oceans absorb carbon from the atmosphere — the more plant plankton there are, the more carbon they absorb — and eventually they filter down into the abyss and remove that carbon from the atmospheric system. Well, it seems that when whales were at their historic populations, they were probably responsible for sequestering some tens of millions of tons of carbon every year from the atmosphere. And when you look at it like that, you think, wait a minute, here are the wolves changing the physical geography of the Yellowstone National Park. Here are the whales changing the composition of the atmosphere. You begin to see that possibly, the evidence supporting James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis, which conceives of the world as a coherent, self-regulating organism, is beginning, at the ecosystem level, to accumulate. Trophic cascades tell us that the natural world is even more fascinating and complex than we thought it was. They tell us that when you take away the large animals, you are left with a radically different ecosystem to one which retains its large animals. And they make, in my view, a powerful case for the reintroduction of missing species. Rewilding, to me, means bringing back some of the missing plants and animals. It means taking down the fences, it means blocking the drainage ditches, it means preventing commercial fishing in some large areas of sea, but otherwise stepping back. It has no view as to what a right ecosystem or a right assemblage of species looks like. It doesn't try to produce a heath or a meadow or a rain forest or a kelp garden or a coral reef. It lets nature decide, and nature, by and large, is pretty good at deciding. Now, I mentioned that there are two definitions of rewilding that interest me. The other one is the rewilding of human life. And I don't see this as an alternative to civilization. I believe we can enjoy the benefits of advanced technology, as we're doing now, but at the same time, if we choose, have access to a richer and wilder life of adventure when we want to because there would be wonderful, rewilded habitats. And the opportunities for this are developing more rapidly than you might think possible. There's one estimate which suggests that in the United States, two thirds of the land which was once forested and then cleared has become reforested as loggers and farmers have retreated, particularly from the eastern half of the country. There's another one which suggests that 30 million hectares of land in Europe, an area the size of Poland, will be vacated by farmers between 2000 and 2030. Now, faced with opportunities like that, does it not seem a little unambitious to be thinking only of bringing back wolves, lynx, bears, beavers, bison, boar, moose, and all the other species which are already beginning to move quite rapidly across Europe? Perhaps we should also start thinking about the return of some of our lost megafauna. What megafauna, you say? Well, every continent had one, apart from Antarctica. When Trafalgar Square in London was excavated, the river gravels there were found to be stuffed with the bones of hippopotamus, rhinos, elephants, hyenas, lions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were lions in Trafalgar Square long before Nelson's Column was built. All these species lived here in the last interglacial period, when temperatures were pretty similar to our own. It's not climate, largely, which has got rid of the world's megafaunas. It's pressure from the human population hunting and destroying their habitats which has done so. And even so, you can still see the shadows of these great beasts in our current ecosystems. Why is it that so many deciduous trees are able to sprout from whatever point the trunk is broken? Why is it that they can withstand the loss of so much of their bark? Why do understory trees, which are subject to lower sheer forces from the wind and have to carry less weight than the big canopy trees, why are they so much tougher and harder to break than the canopy trees are? Elephants. They are elephant-adapted. In Europe, for example, they evolved to resist the straight-tusked elephant, elephas antiquus, which was a great beast. It was related to the Asian elephant, but it was a temperate animal, a temperate forest creature. It was a lot bigger than the Asian elephant. But why is it that some of our common shrubs have spines which seem to be over-engineered to resist browsing by deer? Perhaps because they evolved to resist browsing by rhinoceros. Isn't it an amazing thought that every time you wander into a park or down an avenue or through a leafy street, you can see the shadows of these great beasts? Paleoecology, the study of past ecosystems, crucial to an understanding of our own, feels like a portal through which you may pass into an enchanted kingdom. And if we really are looking at areas of land of the sort of sizes I've been talking about becoming available, why not reintroduce some of our lost megafauna, or at least species closely related to those which have become extinct everywhere? Why shouldn't all of us have a Serengeti on our doorsteps? And perhaps this is the most important thing that rewilding offers us, the most important thing that's missing from our lives: hope. In motivating people to love and defend the natural world, an ounce of hope is worth a ton of despair. The story rewilding tells us is that ecological change need not always proceed in one direction. It offers us the hope that our silent spring could be replaced by a raucous summer. Thank you. (Applause)"	我年輕的時後，曾經有六年時間在熱帶從事野外探險活動，擔任調查記者，輾轉在世界上最迷人的一些地方。當時我年輕氣盛，無知無畏。這正是引發戰爭的原因。但那也是我活得最有意義的時期。當我回到家，發現自己的存在感漸漸薄弱，甚至把碗放進洗碗機都是有趣的挑戰。我覺得自己就像在生活的牆上不住地撓，試圖找到一條出路，想找有更廣闊地一片天。我相信，那時我是真的窮極無聊。 如今，我們進化到了一個更具挑戰性的時代，一個充斥著尖角、獠牙、利齒、堅爪的世界。我們依舊有恐懼和勇氣以及馳騁於這個時代所需要的上進心。但在這個舒適、安全、擁擠的地盤上，我們很少有機會練習，而不會傷害到其他人。這就是我所遭遇到的瓶頸。要克服不確定，知道什麼可能發生，這幾乎就是工業社會的主導目標，當目標達成，或即將達成的時候，又會出現新的需求。我們看重安全甚於經驗 ，我們從中獲益匪淺，但我認為其中也有損失。 我並沒有把演化的過程理想化。我已經比那些狩獵-採集的原始人長命很多了，如果殊死搏鬥的一方是我——目光短淺，跌跌撞撞，拿著石尖矛的原始人，而對方是頭被激怒的巨型歐洲野牛結果並不難預測。我也並非在找尋真實性。這根本不是個有用而清晰的概念。我只想要過一種更豐富、更天然的生活，相較於在英國，或者在世界上大多數的工業國家過的日子。 直到我偶然認識了一個不熟悉的詞彙，我才開始理解自己尋覓的是什麼。一找到這個詞，我就知道我會願意將餘生的大部分精力投入其中。 就是“野化” (rewilding) 一詞，即使是一個新興詞彙，它也已經擁有很多種定義。但其中有兩種深得我心。第一種是-大規模的復原生態系統。第一種是-大規模的復原生態系統。 在過去半個世紀中最讓人振奮的科學發現之一就是廣泛存在的營養級聯。營養級聯是一種生態過程，從食物鏈頂端開始，自上而下到達底部，最經典例子就是在美國黃石國家公園1995年的狼群放歸。我們都知道狼會殺死多種動物，但我們可能不太清楚牠們也孕育了許多其他的物種。聽起來挺奇怪，但請聽我道來。在狼群回歸之前，牠們已絕跡70年了。因為沒有天敵，鹿的數量在黃石公園中不斷增加，就算人類想過辦法控制，牠們還是幾乎將當地植被破壞殆盡。一旦狼群到來，雖然數量並不多，效果卻是驚人的。首先，牠們殺了部份的鹿，但這不是最重要的。更重要的是，牠們從根本上改變了鹿群的行為。鹿群開始回避國家公園中的一些地方，那些牠們最容易被捕獵的地方，特別是一些溪谷和峽谷，那裡的（植被）立馬得到了新生。有些地方的樹在六年裡就長了五倍高。有些地方的樹在六年裡就長了五倍高。光禿禿的山谷沒多久就有了樹林，長滿了山楊、柳樹和棉白楊。樹一長出來，鳥類就開始加入。鳴禽數量和候鳥數量開始急速成長。河狸數量也開始增加，因為牠們喜愛的食物來自於樹木。河狸，就像狼一樣，是生態系統的工程師。牠們為其他物種創造獨特的生存空間。在河裡築起的小水壩為水獺、麝鼠、鴨子、魚類、爬行動物和兩棲動物提供了棲息地。狼群殺死郊狼，結果兔子和老鼠的數量開始增加，帶來更多的鷹、黃鼠狼、狐狸和獾。渡鴉和禿鷹落地來吃狼群留下的腐骨。熊也吃這個，而熊的數量增加，部分原因是有更多的漿果結在新生的灌木上，熊還增強了狼群產生的影響，牠們捕殺鹿的幼崽。 另外還有更加有趣的地方。狼群改變了河流的習性。河水的迂回減少了，侵蝕減弱，河道變窄。也形成更多池塘和淺灘，這些都是極佳的野生動物棲息地。河流因狼群而改變，河流因狼群而改變，原因在於新生的樹林穩固了河岸，滑坡減少，河道也就更為固定。另外，由於鹿群被趕出了一些區域，河谷坡上的植被復蘇，植被能夠穩固土壤，因此水土流失也減少了。總之，僅僅是為數不多的狼，不但轉變了黃石國家公園廣闊土地上的生態系統，還轉變了這裡的地形地貌。 南大洋中的鯨魚也有類似的廣泛影響。日本政府用此來解釋其捕鯨活動其中一個理由是他們說：「魚類和磷蝦的數量會增加，能為人類提供更多食物。」這愚蠢的藉口，聽起來似乎有點道理，因為你覺得鯨魚要吃掉大量的魚和磷蝦，顯然，把鯨魚拿掉，魚和磷蝦就會增多。但事實情況正好相反。把鯨魚拿掉後，磷蝦數量劇減。怎麼會這那樣？現在人們發現鯨魚對維護整個生態系統至關重要。其中一個原因是：鯨魚在較深的水域進食，然後到水面排泄，生物學家禮貌地稱之為大型糞便羽，巨量的糞便在表層水域，就是海洋的透光層，有足夠的光照供（水生植物）進行光合作用，這些可觀的肥料糞便刺激了浮游植物的增殖，處於食物鏈底端的浮游植物，促進了浮游動物的增殖，進而供養了魚類、磷蝦和其他生物。鯨魚還有一個重要的任務：牠們在水體中上下穿梭，就能把浮游植物重新攪回水面讓它們繼續生存和繁殖。有趣的是，我們知道海洋中的浮游植物能吸收大氣層中的碳，浮游植物越多，吸收的碳就越多，最終它們滲入海底帶走了大氣迴圈中的碳。在鯨魚數量繁盛的歷史時期，牠們很可能負責每年要從大氣中吸收幾千萬噸的碳。要從大氣中吸收幾千萬噸的碳。 綜合這些例子，你想想，等等，狼能夠改變黃石國家公園的物理地貌；鯨魚能夠改變大氣的構成。你開始看到一種可能性，如同詹姆斯•洛夫洛克的蓋亞假說認為世界是渾然一體的，是能夠自我調節的有機體，在生態系統層面，證明蓋亞假說的證據開始積累。 營養級聯告訴我們自然界比我們想的更為神奇和複雜。它告訴我們，當你去掉了大型動物，只能得到一個截然不同的生態系統與保留大型動物相比。在我看來，這些都是強有力的案例來支持缺失物種的再引入。野化，對我來說意味著帶回某些缺失的植物和動物；意味著卸下樊籬；意味著擋住排水溝；意味著阻止某些大面積海域的商業性捕魚；否則就是倒退。野化對「何為一個正確的生態系統」，或者「怎樣組合物種才正確」這類問題不做評論。野化並不是要打造一片荒野、一個牧場、一片雨林、海藻園或珊瑚礁。它讓大自然做出決定，一般說來，大自然非常善於做決定。 我之前提到野化有兩種定義讓我感興趣。另一種（定義）就是人類的「野化」。我並不認為這可以替代文明。我並不認為這可以替代文明。我相信人類可以享受先進科技帶來的好處，就像現在一樣，但同時可以自主選擇去接觸一種更豐富更野性的探險生活只要我們想，就能去那些美好的野化生態棲息地。 這類機會激增的速度遠遠超過你的想像。有一項預測顯示，在美國，原本森林被砍伐的土地中，有三分之二已經被重新植林，伐木工和農夫撤出了，這種現象尤其多見於美國東部。另一項預測顯示歐洲有三千萬公頃的土地，這相當於波蘭的國土面積，農夫會在2000年與2030年之間搬出。 面對這樣的機會，我們是否可以更有野心一點，難道只能考慮恢復狼、猞猁、熊、河狸、野牛、野豬、駝鹿，和其他一些已經開始在歐洲迅速遷徙的物種嗎？或許我們也應該開始考慮讓一些失落的巨型物種回歸？ 你說是哪個物種？每個大陸都有一個，除了南極洲。當倫敦特拉法爾加廣場開挖地基時，在那裡的河道砂石中找到了滿滿的動物骨骸，包括河馬、犀牛、大象、鬣狗，和獅子。是的，女士先生們，特拉法爾加廣場曾有獅子出沒，遠在納爾遜紀念碑修建之前。這些物種生活在上一次間冰期，那時的氣溫與現在相似。基本上，氣候並不是造成巨型動物滅絕的原因。壓力來自於人類的狩獵和破壞動物棲息地的行為，這才是罪魁禍首。 即便如此，你仍然能在現今的生態系統中看到這些巨獸的影子。為什麼有如此多的落葉樹木可以從任何樹幹斷裂的地方冒出芽來？這些樹木為什麼在失去大部分樹皮的情況下仍能存活？為什麼下層木受到的風力小，承受的重量也比喬木輕，為什麼這些樹比喬木更堅硬、更難折斷呢？大象。它們是適應大象而演化的。好比在歐洲，這些樹種演化成能夠抵擋長了直獠牙的象，古象，一種巨獸。它與亞洲象有關係，但它是一種溫帶動物，一種溫帶樹林生物。比亞洲象的體格大很多。為什麼普通的灌木長著相當誇張的刺來阻止鹿的進食？它們演化成這樣可能是為了阻止犀牛的進食。 這個想法是不是很絕，每次你閒逛到一個公園或者溜躂到一條林蔭大道，就可以看到這些巨獸的影子？古生態學研究過去的生態系統，這對理解我們今天的生態系統尤其重要，讓人覺得是這是一個入口，可以由此穿越到一個奇幻王國。如果我們可以去檢視這些（重歸自然的）土地的區域面積真的可以達到我們之前談到的規模，為什麼不能再引入那些失落的巨型動物，或者是與牠們有關聯的生物，那些在瀕臨絕種的生物？為什麼我們不能都在門階上搞出一個塞倫蓋提（草原）？ 也許這就是野化所能帶給我們的最重要的東西，我們生活中缺失的最最重要的一樣東西：希望。通過激勵人們熱愛和保衛自然界，一盎司的希望抵得上一噸的絕望。野化的故事告訴我們，生態變遷無需永遠朝一個方向進行。它帶給我們希望，寂靜的春天可能被喧囂的夏天所取代。 謝謝。 （掌聲）
