Talk	en	zh-tw
george_dyson_on_project_orion	"I'm a historian. Steve told us about the future of little technology; I'm going to show you some of the past of big technology. This was a project to build a 4,000-ton nuclear bomb-propelled spaceship and go to Saturn and Jupiter. This took place in my childhood, 1957-65. It was deeply classified. I'm going to show you some stuff that not only has not been declassified, but has now been reclassified. (Laughter) If all goes well, next year I'll be back, and I'll have a lot more to show you, and if all doesn't go well, I'll be in jail, like Wen Ho Lee. (Laughter) So, this ship was basically the size of the Marriott Hotel, a little taller and a little bigger. And one of the people who worked on it at the beginning was my father, Freeman, there in the middle. That's me and my sister, Esther, who's a frequent TEDster. I didn't like nuclear bomb-propelled spaceships. I mean, I thought it was a great idea, but I started building kayaks. So we had a few kayaks. Just so you know that I am not Dr. Strangelove. But all the time I was out there doing these strange kayak voyages in odd, beautiful parts of this planet, I always thought in the back of my mind about Project Orion, and how my father and his friends were going to build these big ships. They were actually going to go — Ted Taylor, who led the project, was going to take his children. My father was not going to take his children, that was one of the reasons we sort of had a falling out for a few years. (Laughter) The project began in '57 at General Atomics there, that's right on the coast at La Jolla. Look at that central building right in the middle of the picture. That's the 130-foot diameter library. That is exactly the size of the base of the spaceship. So put that library at the bottom of that ship — that's how big the thing was going to be. It would take two or three thousand bombs. The people who worked on it were a lot of the Los Alamos people who had done the hydrogen bomb work. It was the first project funded by ARPA. That's the contract where ARPA gave the first million dollars to get this thing started. ""Spaceship project officially begun. Job waiting for you. Dyson."" That's July '58. Two days later, the space traveler's manifesto explaining why — just like we heard yesterday — why we need to go into space: ""... trips to satellites of the outer planets. August 20, 1958."" These are the statistics of what would be the good places to go and stop. Some of the sizes of the ships, ranging all the way up to ship mass of 8 million tons. So that was the outer extreme. Here was version two: 2,000 bombs. These are five-kiloton yield bombs, about the size of small Volkswagens; it would take 800 to get into orbit. Here we see a 10,000-ton ship will deliver 1,300 tons to Saturn and back — essentially, a five-year trip. Possible departure dates: October 1960 to February 1967. These are trajectories going to Mars. All this was done by hand, with slide rules. The little Orion ship, and what it would take to do what Orion does with chemicals: you have a ship the size of the Empire State Building. NASA had no interest; they tried to kill the project. The people who supported it were the Air Force, which meant that it was all secret. And that's why when you get something declassified, that's what it looks like. Military weapon versions that carried hydrogen bombs that could destroy half the planet. There's another version there that sends retaliatory strikes at the Soviet Union. This is the really secret stuff: how to get directed energy explosions. So you're sending the energy of a nuclear explosion — not like just a stick of dynamite, but you're directing it at the ship. And this is still a very active subject. It's quite dangerous, but I believe it's better to have dangerous things in the open than think you're going to keep them secret. This is what happened at 600 microseconds. The Air Force started to build smaller models and actually started doing this. The guys in La Jolla said, ""We've got to get started now."" They built a high-explosive propelled model. These are stills from film footage that was saved by someone who was supposed to destroy it but didn't, and kept it in their basement for the last 40 years. So, these are three-pound charges of C4; that's about 10 times what the guy had in his shoes. (Laughter) This is Ed Day putting — So each of these coffee cans has three pounds of C4 in it. They're building a system that ejects these at quarter-second intervals. That's my dad in the sport coat there, holding the briefcase. So, they had a lot of fun doing this. But no children were allowed; my dad could tell me he was building a spaceship and going to go to Saturn, but he could not say anything more about it. So all my life I have wanted to find this stuff out, and spent the last four years tracking these old guys down. These are stills from the video. Jeff Bezos kindly, yesterday, said he'll put this video up on the Amazon site — some little clip of it. (Applause) So, thanks to him. They got quite serious about the engineering of this. The size of that mass, for us, is really large technology in a way we're never going to go back to. If you saw the 1959 — this is what it would feel like in the passenger compartment; that's acceleration profile. (Laughter) And pulse-system yield: we're looking at 20-kiloton yield for an effective thrust of 10 million newtons. Well, here we have a little problem, the radiation doses at the crew station: 700 rads per shot. (Laughter) Fission yields during development: they were hoping to get clean bombs; they didn't. Eyeburn: this is what happens to the people in Miami who are looking up. (Laughter) Personnel compartment noise: that's not too bad; it's very low frequencies, it's basically like these sub-woofers. And now we have ground-hazard assessments when you have a blow-up on the pad. Finally, at the very end in 1964, NASA steps in and says, ""OK, we'll support a feasibility study for a small version that could be launched with Saturn Vs in sections and pieced together."" So this is what NASA did, getting an eight-man version that would go to Mars. They liked it because the guys could kind of live there and be like, ""It's like living in a submarine."" This is crew compartment. It switches, so what's upside down is right side up when you go to artificial gravity mode. The scientists were still going to go along; they would take seven astronauts and seven scientists. This is a 20-man version for going to Jupiter: bunks, storm cellars, exercise room. You know, it was going to be a nice, long trip. The Air Force version: here we have a military version. This is the kind of stuff that's not been declassified, just that people managed to sneak home and after, you know, on their deathbed, basically, gave me that. The sort of artist conceptions. These are basically PowerPoint presentations given to the Air Force 40 years ago. Look at the little guys there outside the vehicle. And one part of NASA was interested in it, but the headquarters in NASA, they killed the project. So finally, at the end, we can see the thing followed its sort of design path right up to 1965, and then all those paths came to a halt. Results: none. This project is hereby terminated. So that's the end. All I can say in closing is: we heard yesterday that one of the 10 bad things that could happen to us is an asteroid with our name on it. And one of the bad things that could happen to NASA is if that asteroid shows up with our name on it nine months out, and everybody says, ""Well, what are we going to do?"" And Orion is really one of the only, if not the only, off-the-shelf technologies that could do something. (Laughter) So I'm going to tell you the good news and the bad news. The good news is that NASA has a small, secret contingency-plan division that is looking at this, trying to keep knowledge of Orion preserved in the event of such a misfortune. Maybe keep a few little bombs of plutonium on the side. That's the good news. The bad news is, when I got in contact with these people to try and get some documents from them, they went crazy because I had all this stuff that they don't have, and NASA purchased 1,759 pages of this stuff from me. So that's the state we're at; it's not very good. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"我是一個研究歷史的人，史蒂夫不久前講了一些小科技未來可能的發展，我則要告訴大家一個""大""科技的過去發展過程。這個計畫是要建造一個以4000噸級核子彈推動的太空船，用來飛往土星和木星。這件事情是發生在我小時候的事 — 時間是在1957年到1965年之間，這計畫當時是高度機密。所以我現在要給各位看的東西, 不僅至今還沒有被解密，甚至現在還要再度被列為機密文件。 (觀眾笑聲) 如果一切順利的話，明年我會再回來這裡展示更多東西給各位看，但如果情況不是那麼順利的話，我就會像李文和一樣被關起來了。（李文和因洩漏國家研究計畫內容入獄） 觀眾笑聲 這艘太空船的大小和萬豪旅館(Marriott Hotel)差不多，只稍高點，再稍大點。有一個人從一開始就參與這個計畫，那就是我老爹，弗利曼—就是照片中間那個人，旁邊是我和我姐姐，Esther，她可是TED的常客...我並不喜歡用核子彈推進的太空船,但我認為建造物體航向未知倒是是好主意，所以我開始做皮艇。我有幾艘皮艇。就如各位所知我不是奇愛博士(1964年一部敘述美國蘇聯間核戰電影的主角)， 但是每次我駕駛著這些外型奇特的皮艇，航行在地球上最奇特美麗的地方時，我內心深處總會想到這個獵戶座計畫，並思考我爸和他的朋友們當時究竟打算如何建造這些大太空船。他們當時是玩真的，他們真的要搭太空船上太空。像這個計畫的主持人，泰德•泰勒，他就打算帶他的孩子同行，我老爹可沒打算帶他的孩子們去。這也是有幾年我們父子之間有點不爽的原因之一。 (觀眾笑聲) 這計畫於1957年，在通用原子公司（General Atomic）開始進行。地點就在La Jolla(拉霍亞)海灘。看照片正中間的這棟建築。這圖書館的直徑有130英尺，這正和那艘太空船的底座大小一致。想像一下將圖書館放在飛船的底下—就可以看出這艘太空船的尺寸。推動這艘太空船需要用兩三千枚核彈，參與這個飛船計畫的人，許多是以前在Los Alamos的人，他們過去都是搞氫彈的，這個計畫是ARPA（美國高級研究計畫署）資助的第一個專案，這是ARPA的合約，他們提供了第一筆一百萬美元資金來啟動這個計畫。“太空船計畫正式啟動，你有工作了，戴森。”時間是在1958年7月。兩天後，這些太空遊客的宣言說明了我們為什麼要上太空——就像我們昨天聽到的一樣。“前往太陽系外行星的衛星之旅” — 1958年8月20日。(外行星指太陽系中地球軌道外的四顆由氣體組成有衛星帶的行星:木星 土星 海王星 天王星) 這是航行途中可以停留的中途點及目的地的統計表，有各種尺寸的太空船，最大達到8百萬噸級，這是最大的太空船。這是第二個版本，兩千個核彈，會產生相當於5千噸炸彈的動力，大小和小型的福斯汽車相當。讓太空船進入太空軌道需要8百枚。這是一萬噸級的太空船，其中一千三百噸動力是要留做從土星回程使用，這樣需要五年的旅行時間。可能的啟程日在1960年10月到1967年2月之間。這是航行到火星的軌跡線，這些都是用計算尺手算出來的。這艘獵戶座太空船，如果用化學物質來推進的話，大空船的大小大概會和帝國大廈差不多。 美國太空總署NASA沒有興趣，他們試圖砍掉這個研究計畫。但空軍則支持這個計畫，這意味著整個計畫都是秘密。這也是為什麼當這計畫解密時，它是這副模樣。這個軍事武器版的太空船所攜帶的氫彈足以摧毀半個地球。這是另一個版本，可以用來對蘇聯實施報復性打擊—這才是本計畫真正的秘密核心：如何實現定向爆炸，核爆炸的推力必須被定向，這點和普通炸藥的爆炸不同，爆炸力量必須被導向太空船本身，定向爆炸至今仍然是一個非常活躍的學科。它是相當危險的，不過我想將危險的東西公開會比將其隱藏要好一些。 這是爆炸6百微秒後的現象。空軍方面開始建造較小規模的太空船，在拉霍亞海灘的這些傢伙說：“我們現在該啟動了。”他們造了一個高爆炸推進模型。這是一些從影片上擷取下來的照片，原本影片應該要銷毀的，但負責的人卻沒有將其銷毀，反而將這些影片放在地下室達40年之久。這是3磅C4炸藥爆炸的威力，大概是美國鞋底炸彈客裝在鞋裡的10倍。 這只是牛刀小試而已—每個咖啡罐裏有三磅C4炸藥，他們建造了一個系統，每四分之一秒會彈出一個炸藥桶。照片中穿運動外套、拎著公事包的就是我老爹。他們很樂在其中，不過他們不讓小孩參與。我爸只告訴我，他在造太空船，他準備去土星，但沒再告訴我其他的事情。 所以一直以來，我都想搞清楚這件事，我過去四年時間都在追查當時參與計畫的成員。這些也是由影片中擷取的照片。昨天Jeff Bezos說，他要把這些影片中的一些片段，放到Amazon網站上，非常感謝他。他們非常認真的建構太空船。就太空船大小來說，這絕對是大科技。我們永遠不會再回頭搞這種大計畫。假如在1959年看到這東西，會感覺這就像旅客包廂。這是加速度分佈圖， 這是脈衝系統的功率。他們希望用相當於2萬噸的爆炸威力來產生一千萬牛頓力。然而，這兒出了點小問題：每次發射就會在機組人員艙內產生高達700雷德的輻射劑量。發射過程中會產生核分裂：他們想找到無污染的炸彈，不過沒有成功。眼部灼傷 —這情形普遍發在在邁阿密海灘上，仰頭盯著看的人身上。座艙—注意，還不錯。音頻非常低，類似低音炮。這是當發射臺爆炸時的地面危害評估。最後，在1964年底，NASA終於介入，他們說：“好吧，我們支持小版本的可行性研究，就用土星五號火箭分段發射上去再行組裝。"" 這才是NASA想做的版本，只讓八個人前往火星的版本。NASA喜歡這個設計, 因為太空人可以住在裡面，就像住在潛水艇裡面。這是機組人員艙，它會移動，所以一旦進入人工重力模式時，原本上下顛倒的就會轉正。他們還是安排了科學家同行，準備讓太空船搭載7個太空員及7個科學家，這是搭載20人前往木星的版本：有床位、防風地窖、運動室等。這應該是不錯的長途旅行。 這是空軍版，也就是軍方的版本。這些是沒有解密的資料，但就是有人偷渡拿回家，然後在臨死前轉交給我。這是藝術家為這計畫所畫的構想圖，它的功用就像現在的Powerpoint一樣，在40年前是用來演繹給空軍看的。注意看看這個在太空船外的小傢伙。NASA中有一部分人對本計畫感興趣，但是NASA總部大筆一揮砍掉了這個計畫，所以，最後，我們只能看到這些設計的軌跡，而且到1965年之後就全部中止了。 計畫成果呢？什麼都沒有。計畫由此中止。這就是結局。最後我要說的是，在昨天演講中我們聽到，對人類而言，未來有10個壞消息，其中之一是一顆由我們命名的小行星；而對NASA來說，壞消息是這顆行星將在九個月以後撞到我們，人們會說：“我們該怎麼辦呀？”這時候即使獵戶座計畫不是唯一的解決方案，卻也至少是現成的解決方案之一。 所以我要告訴大家一個好消息和一個壞消息。好消息是，NASA有一個小的、秘密的應變計畫部門注意到這件事了，他們儘量保存獵戶座計畫相關的知識，以便應付這類的災難。可能還保存了一些鈽彈頭也說不定。這是好消息。壞消息是，當我聯繫這些人，向他們要一些資料的時候，他們顯得很擔心，因為我有的資料他們都沒有。所以NASA從我這裡買走了1759頁的資料。這就是目前的狀況。情況好像不太妙。 （鼓掌）"
