Talk	en	zh-tw
george_tulevski_the_next_step_in_nanotechnology	"Let's imagine a sculptor building a statue, just chipping away with his chisel. Michelangelo had this elegant way of describing it when he said, ""Every block of stone has a statue inside of it, and it's the task of the sculptor to discover it."" But what if he worked in the opposite direction? Not from a solid block of stone, but from a pile of dust, somehow gluing millions of these particles together to form a statue. I know that's an absurd notion. It's probably impossible. The only way you get a statue from a pile of dust is if the statue built itself — if somehow we could compel millions of these particles to come together to form the statue. Now, as odd as that sounds, that is almost exactly the problem I work on in my lab. I don't build with stone, I build with nanomaterials. They're these just impossibly small, fascinating little objects. They're so small that if this controller was a nanoparticle, a human hair would be the size of this entire room. And they're at the heart of a field we call nanotechnology, which I'm sure we've all heard about, and we've all heard how it is going to change everything. When I was a graduate student, it was one of the most exciting times to be working in nanotechnology. There were scientific breakthroughs happening all the time. The conferences were buzzing, there was tons of money pouring in from funding agencies. And the reason is when objects get really small, they're governed by a different set of physics that govern ordinary objects, like the ones we interact with. We call this physics quantum mechanics. And what it tells you is that you can precisely tune their behavior just by making seemingly small changes to them, like adding or removing a handful of atoms, or twisting the material. It's like this ultimate toolkit. You really felt empowered; you felt like you could make anything. And we were doing it — and by we I mean my whole generation of graduate students. We were trying to make blazing fast computers using nanomaterials. We were constructing quantum dots that could one day go in your body and find and fight disease. There were even groups trying to make an elevator to space using carbon nanotubes. You can look that up, that's true. Anyways, we thought it was going to affect all parts of science and technology, from computing to medicine. And I have to admit, I drank all of the Kool-Aid. I mean, every last drop. But that was 15 years ago, and — fantastic science was done, really important work. We've learned a lot. We were never able to translate that science into new technologies — into technologies that could actually impact people. And the reason is, these nanomaterials — they're like a double-edged sword. The same thing that makes them so interesting — their small size — also makes them impossible to work with. It's literally like trying to build a statue out of a pile of dust. And we just don't have the tools that are small enough to work with them. But even if we did, it wouldn't really matter, because we couldn't one by one place millions of particles together to build a technology. So because of that, all of the promise and all of the excitement has remained just that: promise and excitement. We don't have any disease-fighting nanobots, there's no elevators to space, and the thing that I'm most interested in, no new types of computing. Now that last one, that's a really important one. We just have come to expect the pace of computing advancements to go on indefinitely. We've built entire economies on this idea. And this pace exists because of our ability to pack more and more devices onto a computer chip. And as those devices get smaller, they get faster, they consume less power and they get cheaper. And it's this convergence that gives us this incredible pace. As an example: if I took the room-sized computer that sent three men to the moon and back and somehow compressed it — compressed the world's greatest computer of its day, so it was the same size as your smartphone — your actual smartphone, that thing you spent 300 bucks on and just toss out every two years, would blow this thing away. You would not be impressed. It couldn't do anything that your smartphone does. It would be slow, you couldn't put any of your stuff on it, you could possibly get through the first two minutes of a ""Walking Dead"" episode if you're lucky — (Laughter) The point is the progress — it's not gradual. The progress is relentless. It's exponential. It compounds on itself year after year, to the point where if you compare a technology from one generation to the next, they're almost unrecognizable. And we owe it to ourselves to keep this progress going. We want to say the same thing 10, 20, 30 years from now: look what we've done over the last 30 years. Yet we know this progress may not last forever. In fact, the party's kind of winding down. It's like ""last call for alcohol,"" right? If you look under the covers, by many metrics like speed and performance, the progress has already slowed to a halt. So if we want to keep this party going, we have to do what we've always been able to do, and that is to innovate. So our group's role and our group's mission is to innovate by employing carbon nanotubes, because we think that they can provide a path to continue this pace. They are just like they sound. They're tiny, hollow tubes of carbon atoms, and their nanoscale size, that small size, gives rise to these just outstanding electronic properties. And the science tells us if we could employ them in computing, we could see up to a ten times improvement in performance. It's like skipping through several technology generations in just one step. So there we have it. We have this really important problem and we have what is basically the ideal solution. The science is screaming at us, ""This is what you should be doing to solve your problem."" So, all right, let's get started, let's do this. But you just run right back into that double-edged sword. This ""ideal solution"" contains a material that's impossible to work with. I'd have to arrange billions of them just to make one single computer chip. It's that same conundrum, it's like this undying problem. At this point, we said, ""Let's just stop. Let's not go down that same road. Let's just figure out what's missing. What are we not dealing with? What are we not doing that needs to be done?"" It's like in ""The Godfather,"" right? When Fredo betrays his brother Michael, we all know what needs to be done. Fredo's got to go. (Laughter) But Michael — he puts it off. Fine, I get it. Their mother's still alive, it would make her upset. We just said, ""What's the Fredo in our problem?"" What are we not dealing with? What are we not doing, but needs to be done to make this a success?"" And the answer is that the statue has to build itself. We have to find a way, somehow, to compel, to convince billions of these particles to assemble themselves into the technology. We can't do it for them. They have to do it for themselves. And it's the hard way, and this is not trivial, but in this case, it's the only way. Now, as it turns out, this is not that alien of a problem. We just don't build anything this way. People don't build anything this way. But if you look around — and there's examples everywhere — Mother Nature builds everything this way. Everything is built from the bottom up. You can go to the beach, you'll find these simple organisms that use proteins — basically molecules — to template what is essentially sand, just plucking it from the sea and building these extraordinary architectures with extreme diversity. And nature's not crude like us, just hacking away. She's elegant and smart, building with what's available, molecule by molecule, making structures with a complexity and a diversity that we can't even approach. And she's already at the nano. She's been there for hundreds of millions of years. We're the ones that are late to the party. So we decided that we're going to use the same tool that nature uses, and that's chemistry. Chemistry is the missing tool. And chemistry works in this case because these nanoscale objects are about the same size as molecules, so we can use them to steer these objects around, much like a tool. That's exactly what we've done in our lab. We've developed chemistry that goes into the pile of dust, into the pile of nanoparticles, and pulls out exactly the ones we need. Then we can use chemistry to arrange literally billions of these particles into the pattern we need to build circuits. And because we can do that, we can build circuits that are many times faster than what anyone's been able to make using nanomaterials before. Chemistry's the missing tool, and every day our tool gets sharper and gets more precise. And eventually — and we hope this is within a handful of years — we can deliver on one of those original promises. Now, computing is just one example. It's the one that I'm interested in, that my group is really invested in, but there are others in renewable energy, in medicine, in structural materials, where the science is going to tell you to move towards the nano. That's where the biggest benefit is. But if we're going to do that, the scientists of today and tomorrow are going to need new tools — tools just like the ones I described. And they will need chemistry. That's the point. The beauty of science is that once you develop these new tools, they're out there. They're out there forever, and anyone anywhere can pick them up and use them, and help to deliver on the promise of nanotechnology. Thank you so much for your time. I appreciate it. (Applause)"	想像有一個雕刻師，用他的雕刻刀刻畫著一個雕像。米開朗基羅對這樣的景象給予雅緻的詮釋：「每一塊石頭的背後，都隱藏著一尊雕像等待著雕刻者去發掘。」但如果他反過來做呢？不是從一顆結實的石頭開始，而是從一堆散沙開始，設法把好幾百萬顆的小沙粒黏成一座雕像。 我知道這想法有點荒謬，可能辦不到。你唯一可以讓一堆沙變成雕像的方法，就是讓雕像自我組建起來——想辦法把數以百萬的小顆粒匯集起來成為一座雕像。 這聽起來有點怪，但這幾乎就是我的實驗室正在努力解決的問題。我不是用石頭建造的，我是用奈米材料建造的。它們真的小到不行，相當迷人的小物體。如果這個奈米顆粒是這個遙控器的大小，那麼人類的頭髮就相當於現場整個空間的大小。而它們就是奈米科技領域的核心，我確定這些大家都已經聽說過了，也都聽過它將如何改變我們的世界。 在我還是研究生時，能在奈米科技領域工作是件令人相當興奮的事。隨時都有科學性的突破發展。到處都是研討會，基金公司也會投入相當多的資金。原因就是，當物體變得很小的時候，它們運作的物理模式，與我們所接觸到一般尺寸物體的物理運作模式與特性是不同的。我們稱這個物理現象為：量子力學。意思就是，你只要稍微改變它們的內容，你就能精準地調整它們運作的行為，例如，增加或移除一些原子，或者扭轉它的材質。它像是一個終極工具包。你會感覺渾身是勁；彷彿可以創造任何東西一樣。 我們一直都在做這件事 ──我們指的是我那一代的研究生。我們試著用奈米材料建造出超快速的電腦。我們建造的「量子點」可能有一天會進入到你的體內尋找並對抗疾病。甚至有其它團隊正在嘗試用奈米碳管建造太空電梯。你可以搜尋一下，這是真的。總之，我們認為它將會對我們的科學及技術，從電腦到醫藥產生影響。我必須承認，有關奈米的所有東西，我照單全收。對其盲從癡迷地無可救藥。 但那是 15 年前的事了，我們神奇的科學界完成了很多重要的工作，我們學到了很多。但當時我們無法把這些科學轉換成新的科技 ──可以真正地影響人類的科技。原因是，這些奈米材料 ──像是把雙面刃。奈米之所以特別有趣，在於 ──其超小的尺寸，但這也是造成它們無法被操作的原因。就好比用一堆散沙建造起一座雕像一樣。而我們還沒有尺寸這麼小的工具來操作它們。但即使我們有，也真的不重要，因為我們不會一個個地把這幾百萬顆的小顆粒結合一起去建立出一項科技。因此，所有的承諾與興奮也只是說說而已。我們根本沒有任何可以對抗疾病的奈米機器人，也沒有可以到外太空的電梯，也沒有我最感興趣的新型電腦。 我說的最後一個，真的很重要。我們一直認為電腦的計算能力能永無止境地突破。我們所有經濟運轉的模式，是在這樣的理想下所建立的。而這樣進步的速度的確存在，因為我們有能力可以把越來越多的設備整合到一片電腦晶片上。當這些設備越來越小時、速度卻越來越快、越來越省電而且越來越便宜。這樣的匯聚整合帶給我們驚人的進步速度。 舉個例子：如果我把體積有一個房間大，用來送三位太空人來回月球的電腦進行壓縮，把過去全世界最偉大的電腦進行壓縮，壓縮到跟你的手機一樣大小 ──而你手上那支手機，那支花了你 300 塊美金，而且每兩年就會淘汰的手機，會完勝以前的太空電腦，你會對壓縮的太空電腦不屑一顧。因為它無法提供智慧型手機應有的功能與服務，速度又慢，你無法安裝任何東西上去，你可能可以看到前兩分鐘的《陰屍路》影集，如果你夠幸運的話 ── （笑聲） 關鍵是電腦進步的速度 ──它不是漸進式的、它是持續不斷的呈指數型上升。它每年快速不斷地汰換更新，如果你拿這一代的科技跟上一代的比，你根本就認不出來。我們有責任要維持這樣的進步速度。往後的 10 年、20 年、30 年，我們都希望仍可以繼續說：看看我們過去 30 年的成果。但我們知道這樣的進步速度可能不會一直持續下去。實際上，派對感覺快要結束了。像是在跟我們說，「最後叫酒的機會了喔！」，對吧？如果我們仔細觀察，像是速度和性能，進步的程度已經減緩到停滯不前了。所以，如果我們要讓派對繼續狂歡下去，我們就必須做我們一向擅長做的事情，那就是創新。 我們團隊所扮演的角色及展望的願景，就是運用奈米碳管做創新研發，因為我們認為它可以讓我們進步的速度持續下去。就如同其名，它們是很小、碳原子做的管狀物，奈米大小的尺寸，展現出卓越的電子傳導性能。科學告訴我們，如果我們可以把它應用在電腦上，它性能表現的優異度會是現在的 10 倍以上。像是跳過好幾個世代的科技，直接一步到位。 所以，我們找到創新的解決方法。我們有這個重大、難以克服的問題，而我們有了基本的理想解決方法。科學正對著我們大喊，「要解決你的問題，去研究奈米科技就對了。」所以，好吧，我們開始進行吧，開始做吧。但這又回到雙面刃的問題。這個「理想的解決方法」內含一種難搞的材料。我要把數以億計的這些小東西搞定，才能做出一個電腦晶片。這是一個同樣難解、永遠存在的問題。 就在這時候，我們說：「我們先暫停一下。我們不要走回頭路，讓我們仔細想想到底遺漏了什麼、我們沒有處理到哪些事？我們還有哪些該做卻沒做的事情？」這有點像《教父》影集，對吧？當弗雷多背叛他的弟弟麥可，我們都知道接下來要怎麼處理了，弗雷多必須得死。 （笑聲） 但麥可，他延遲了殺人的計畫。好，我懂了，因他們的母親還健在，兄弟相殘這件事會讓她很難受。但我們只想問，「我們問題中的弗雷多是什麼？我們沒處理哪些事？我們如果要成功，到底還有哪些要做卻沒做的？」結果答案就是：那座雕像，它要自己建造起來。我們無論如何都必須找出方法，匯集、說服那些數十億顆的小粒子讓它們自己組裝起來，成為一項科技。我們不能幫它們做，它們必須自己做。這條路很困難、而且不容易，但就目前看來，這是唯一的方法。 結果後來我們發現，這也不是什麼外星人科技的問題。我們只是不會用這樣的方式建造東西。人們不會用這樣的方式建造東西。但如果你環顧一下四周 ──這樣的範例到處都是 ──大自然母親就是用這樣的方式創造出每一樣東西。每一樣東西都是從基本元素構成。你去海邊，就可以看到這些簡單的生物體，它們就是用蛋白質 ──這樣的基本分子 ──以沙子做成的樣板，利用在海裡垂手可得的材料打造出極緻多樣化的非凡結構體。而大自然不像我們這樣粗枝大葉，她會精雕細琢。她是如此的優雅且充滿智慧，從周遭取材，一個分子一個分子地建造，用我們未曾有過的方法製造出複雜又多樣化的結構。她原本就是奈米的領域。而且存在了好幾百萬年。在奈米派對上，我們人類才是晚到者。 所以，我們決定使用與大自然相同的工具，那就是，化學。化學就是我們所遺漏的工具。而化學在這情況下，起作用了，因為這些奈米物體的大小與分子相當，所以我們可以利用化學來控制它們，化學就像是個工具一樣。這就是我們在實驗室做的事情。我們研發出一種化學方式，直接應用到那一堆沙裡，那一堆奈米顆粒裡，然後取出我們想要的。之後利用化學方法，調整出我們需要的迴路款式。因為我們辦得到，所以我們建造的迴路，比之前任何會使用奈米材料的人快上好幾倍。化學就是遺漏的工具，我們的工具每天不斷地提升，而且越來越精確。最後，我們期待這一刻好幾年了，我們終於可以完成那些原本的承諾。 電腦只是其中一個範例。那是我有興趣的，我的團隊真的投入了很多，但還有其它領域，像是再生能源、藥物、建築材料方面，科學即將告訴你我們要前進到奈米世界了。在那裏可以創造出最大的效益。但如果我們要開始做了，現在、未來的科學家都需要新的工具 ──就如同我所說的工具。他們會用到化學，這才是重點。而科學美妙的地方就在於，一旦你研發了這些新工具，它們就在那裡等候差遣，它們永遠都在。任何人都可以隨時隨地拿起來用，協助實現奈米科技對我們的承諾。 非常感謝各位的聆聽，我很感激。 （掌聲）
