Talk	en	zh-tw
george_ayittey_on_cheetahs_vs_hippos	"Well, first of all, let me thank Emeka — as a matter of fact, TED Global — for putting this conference together. This conference is going to rank as the most important in the beginning of the 21st century. Think African governments will put together a conference like this? You think the A.U. will put together a conference like this? Even before they do that they will ask for foreign aid. I would also like to pay homage and honor to the TED Fellows June Arunga, James Shikwati, Andrew, and the other TED Fellows. I call them the Cheetah Generation. The Cheetah Generation is a new breed of Africans who brook no nonsense about corruption. They understand what accountability and democracy is. They're not going to wait for government to do things for them. That's the Cheetah Generation, and Africa's salvation rests on the backs of these Cheetahs. In contrast, of course, we have the Hippo Generation. (Laughter) The Hippo Generation are the ruling elites. They are stuck in their intellectual patch. Complaining about colonialism and imperialism, they wouldn't move one foot. If you ask them to reform the economies, they're not going to reform it because they benefit from the rotten status quo. Now, there are a lot of Africans who are very angry, angry at the condition of Africa. Now, we're talking about a continent that is not poor. It is rich in mineral resources, natural mineral resources. But the mineral wealth of Africa is not being utilized to lift its people out of poverty. That's what makes a lot of Africans very angry. And in a way, Africa is more than a tragedy, in more ways than one. There's another enduring tragedy, and that tragedy is that there are so many people, so many governments, so many organizations who want to help the people in Africa. They don't understand. Now, we're not saying don't help Africa. Helping Africa is noble. But helping Africa has been turned into a theater of the absurd. It's like the blind leading the clueless. (Laughter) There are certain things that we need to recognize. Africa's begging-bowl leaks. Did you know that 40 percent of the wealth created in Africa is not invested here in Africa? It's taken out of Africa. That's what the World Bank says. Look at Africa's begging-bowl. It leaks horribly. There are people who think that we should pour more money, more aid into this bowl which leaks. What are the leakages? Corruption alone costs Africa 148 billion dollars a year. Yes, put that aside. Capital flight out of Africa, 80 billion a year. Put that aside. Let's take food imports. Every year Africa spends 20 billion dollars to import food. Just add that up, all these leakages. That's far more than the 50 billion Tony Blair wants to raise for Africa. Now, back in the 1960s Africa not only fed itself, it also exported food. Not anymore. We know that something has gone fundamentally wrong. You know it, I know it, but let's not waste our time talking about these mistakes because we'll spend all day here. Let's move on, and flip over to the next chapter, and that's what this conference is all about — the next chapter. The next chapter begins with first of all, asking ourselves this fundamental question, ""Whom do we want to help in Africa?"" There is the people, and then there is the government or leaders. Now, the previous speaker before me, Idris Mohammed, indicated that we've had abysmal leadership in Africa. That characterization, in my view, is even more charitable. (Laughter) I belong to an Internet discussion forum, an African Internet discussion forum, and I asked them, I said, ""Since 1960, we've had exactly 204 African heads of state, since 1960."" And I asked them to name me just 20 good leaders, just 20 good leaders — you may want to take this leadership challenge yourself. I asked them to name me just 20. Everybody mentioned Nelson Mandela, of course. Kwame Nkrumah, Nyerere, Kenyatta — somebody mentioned Idi Amin. (Laughter) I let that pass. (Laughter) My point is, they couldn't go beyond 15. Even if they had been able to name me 20, what does that tell you? 20 out of 204 means that the vast majority of the African leaders failed their people. And if you look at them, the slate of the post-colonial leaders — an assortment of military fufu heads, Swiss-bank socialists, crocodile liberators, vampire elites, quack revolutionaries. (Applause) Now, this leadership is a far cry from the traditional leaders that Africans have known for centuries. The second false premise that we make when we're trying to help Africa is that sometimes we think that there is something called a government in Africa that cares about its people, serves the interests of the people, and represents the people. There is one particular quote — a Lesotho chief once said that ""Here in Lesotho, we've got two problems: rats and the government."" (Laughter) What you and I understand as a government doesn't exist in many African countries. In fact, what we call our governments are vampire states. Vampires because they suck the economic vitality out of their people. Government is the problem in Africa. A vampire state is the government — (Applause) — which has been hijacked by a phalanx of bandits and crooks who use the instruments of state power to enrich themselves, their cronies, and tribesmen and exclude everybody else. The richest people in Africa are heads-of-state and ministers, and quite often the chief bandit is the head-of-state himself. Where do they get their money? By creating wealth? No. By raking it off the backs of their suffering people. That's not wealth creation. It's wealth redistribution. The third fundamental issue that we have to recognize is that if we want to help the African people, we must know where the African people are. Take any African economy. An African economy can be broken up into three sectors. There is the modern sector, there is the informal sector and the traditional sector. The modern sector is the abode of the elites. It's the seat of government. In many African countries the modern sector is lost. It's dysfunctional. It is a meretricious fandango of imported systems, which the elites themselves don't understand. That is the source of many of Africa's problems where the struggles for political power emanate and then spill over onto the informal and the traditional sector, claiming innocent lives. Now the modern sector, of course, is where a lot of the development aid and resources went into. More than 80 percent of Ivory Coast's development went into the modern sector. The other sectors, the informal and the traditional sectors, are where you find the majority of the African people, the real people in Africa. That's where you find them. Now, obviously it makes common sense that if you want to help the people, you go where the people are. But that's not what we did. As a matter of fact, we neglected the informal and the traditional sectors. Now, traditional sector is where Africa produces its agriculture, which is one of the reasons why Africa can't feed itself, and that's why it must import food. All right, you cannot develop Africa by ignoring the informal and the traditional sectors. And you can't develop the informal and the traditional sectors without an operational understanding of how these two sectors work. These two sectors, let me describe to you, have their own indigenous institutions. First one is the political system. Traditionally, Africans hate governments. They hate tyranny. If you look into their traditional systems, Africans organize their states in two types. The first one belongs to those ethnic societies who believe that the state was necessarily tyrannous, so they didn't want to have anything to do with any centralized authority. These societies are the Ibo, the Somali, the Kikuyus, for example. They have no chiefs. The other ethnic groups, which did have chiefs, made sure that they surrounded the chiefs with councils upon councils upon councils to prevent them from abusing their power. In Ashanti tradition, for example, the chief cannot make any decision without the concurrence of the council of elders. Without the council the chief can't pass any law, and if the chief doesn't govern according to the will of the people he will be removed. If not, the people will abandon the chief, go somewhere else and set up a new settlement. And even if you look in ancient African empires, they were all organized around one particular principle — the confederacy principle, which is characterized by a great deal of devolution of authority, decentralization of power. Now, this is what I have described to you. This is part of Africa's indigenous political heritage. Now, compare that to the modern systems the ruling elites established on Africa. It is a total far cry. In the economic system in traditional Africa, the means of production is privately owned. It's owned by extended families. You see, in the West, the basic economic and social unit is the individual. The American will say, ""I am because I am, and I can damn well do anything I want, anytime."" The accent is on the ""I."" In Africa, the Africans say, ""I am, because we are."" The ""we"" connotes community — the extended family system. The extended family system pools its resources together. They own farms. They decide what to do, what to produce. They don't take any orders from their chiefs. They decide what to do. And when they produce their crops, they sell the surplus on marketplaces. When they make a profit it is theirs to keep, not for the chief to sequester it from them. So, in a nutshell, what we had in traditional Africa was a free-market system. There were markets in Africa before the colonialists stepped foot on the continent. Timbuktu was one great big market town. Kano, Salaga — they were all there. Even if you go to West Africa, you notice that market activity in West Africa has always been dominated by women. So, it's quite appropriate that this section is called a marketplace. The market is not alien to Africa. What Africans practiced was a different form of capitalism, but then after independence, all of a sudden, markets, capitalism became a western institution, and the leaders said Africans were ready for socialism. Nonsense. And even then, what kind of socialism did they practice? The socialism that they practiced was a peculiar form of Swiss-bank socialism, which allowed the heads of states and the ministers to rape and plunder Africa's treasuries for deposit in Switzerland. That is not the kind of system Africans had known for centuries. What do we do now? Go back to Africa's indigenous institutions, and this is where we charge the Cheetahs to go into the informal sectors, the traditional sectors. That's where you find the African people. And I'd like to show you a quick little video about the informal sector, about the boat-building that I, myself, tried to mobilize Africans in the Diaspora to invest in. Could you please show that? The men are going fishing in these small boats. Yes, it's an enterprise. This is by a local Ghanaian entrepreneur, using his own capital. He's getting no assistance from the government, and he's building a second, bigger boat. A bigger boat will mean more fish will be caught and landed. It means that he will be able to employ more Ghanaians. It also means that he will be able to generate wealth. And then it will have what economists call external effects on a local economy. All that you need to do, all that the elites need to do, is to move this operation into something that is enclosed so that the operation can be made more efficient. Now, it is not just this informal sector. There is also traditional medicine. 80 percent of Africans still rely on traditional medicine. The modern healthcare sector has totally collapsed. Now, this is an area — I mean, there is a treasure trove of wealth in the traditional medicine area. This is where we need to mobilize Africans, in the Diaspora especially, to invest in this. We also need to mobilize Africans in the Diaspora, not only to go into the traditional sectors, but to go into agriculture and also to instigate change from within. We were able to mobilize Ghanaians in the Diaspora to instigate change in Ghana and bring about democracy in Ghana. And I know that with the Cheetahs, we can take Africa back one village at a time. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	首先，我要感謝依梅卡。事實上，我是說TED(全球)，感謝他們召開了這個會議。這將會是被視為21世紀初最重要的會議。想像一下，非洲國家的政府會組織這樣的一個會議嗎？想像一下非洲聯盟會舉辦這樣一個會議嗎？即使有可能，他們也會先尋求外援。其次，我還要向TED的全體同仁們致敬。瓊·阿倫加，詹姆斯·史可瓦蒂，安德魯以及其他TED同仁們。我稱他們為“獵豹族”。“獵豹族”是非洲最近出現的一類人士。他們絕不容忍任何腐敗行為。他們深知何為責任與民主。他們不會坐著等政府為他們辦事。這就是“獵豹族”而拯救非洲的重任便落在這群“獵豹族”的肩上。相形之下，當然，在非洲還存在著“河馬族”。 （大笑） 所謂“河馬族”，指的就是那些所謂“菁英”的當權者們。他們固執地堅持著自己的想法。抱怨著殖民主義和帝國主義，卻毫無半點行動。若要求他們對經濟進行改革，他們是不會去做的，因為，他們正是靠著這腐敗的現狀謀取私利。如今，許多非洲人感到十分憤怒。為非洲的狀況感到憤怒。我們現在所談論的這片陸地並不貧瘠，它擁有豐富的天然礦產資源。然而，非洲豐富的礦產資源並未被用於幫助它的人民擺脫貧困。這是令許多非洲人感到憤怒的原因。從某種程度上來說，非洲的悲劇不僅僅只在這一方面。還有另一個遲遲無法改變的悲劇，那就是有許多人，許多政府，許多組織想要幫助非洲人民，卻又不完全瞭解非洲的狀況。我並不是要大家不要幫助非洲。幫助非洲是個高尚的行為。但是，現今幫助非洲的行為卻變得有些荒誕。就好像一個瞎子為一個傻子引路。 （大笑） 有些事是我們不得不承認。非洲的這個“飯碗”是會漏的。在座各位是否瞭解非洲所創造的財富的40%並未被再投入在這片土地上？這部份財富被從非洲拿走。正如世界銀行所言，瞧瞧非洲的這個飯碗，它實在漏得很厲害。有些人認為我們應該投入更多金錢，更多援助到這個漏碗中。可是，這個碗“漏”的原因在哪裡呢？僅僅腐敗這一項就使得非洲每年損失1480億美元。我們撇開這個暫且不談。非洲每年資本外流金額高達800億美元。這個也撇開不談。以食品進口為例。非洲每年花費200億美元在進口食品。所有這些加總起來，就是碗“漏”的原因了。這遠遠超過托尼·布萊爾想為非洲籌措的500億美金。在60年代時期，非洲不僅能夠養活自己，同時還可以出口食品。如今卻不再是如此了。 我們知道有些事情從根本上就錯了。你我都很清楚這一點，但是我們大家不必將時間浪費在討論這些錯誤上，因為這將耗上我們一整天。我們應更進一步，直接進入下一個主題，這下一個主題才是這個會議的意義所在。開始這下一個主題前，我們首先要問問自己一個根本性的問題：“我們要幫助哪些非洲人？”一般人民，政府，還是領導人們。在我之前的一位演講者伊德裡斯·默罕默德說到在非洲，我們曾有過非常糟糕的領導人。在我看來，他的用詞還過於仁慈了。 （笑聲） 我是某一網路論壇的成員之一，一個非洲網路論壇。我曾問大家：「從1960年起，我們總共有過204位非洲國家領導人。」我請大家為我列舉出20位好的領導人。我只要求列出20位，或許在座的各位您自己也想試著回答這個問題。我只要求他們列出20位當然，所有人都提到了納爾遜·曼德拉。此外，還有克瓦米·恩克魯瑪，尼雷爾，肯亞塔，還有人提到了伊迪·阿明。 （笑聲） 我直接忽略了最後的那個提名。 （笑聲） 我要說的重點是，他們沒人能列舉超過15個人名的。即使有人能列出20個人名，那又如何呢？204人中只有20位，這說明大多數，不，是絕大多數的非洲領導人辜負了他們的人民。如果你去查查看這些後殖民時代領導人的名單，他們大多是些軍閥，在瑞士銀行有著大量存款的所謂“社會主義者”，假惺惺的“解放者”，掠奪百姓的“菁英階層”以及“偽革命者”。 （掌聲） 如今非洲的領導者們與非洲人民幾個世紀以來所認識的傳統領導者們已大不相同當我們試圖幫助非洲時，另一個錯誤的認識是有時候我們會以為在非洲有個關心他的人民的所謂的“政府”，為其人民的利益而服務，代表其人民。但是，一位萊索托酋長曾說過“在萊索托，我們面臨著兩個麻煩—鼠患和政府。” （笑聲） 你我所理解認識的那個“政府”在許多非洲國家根本不存在。事實上，我們稱自己的政府為“吸血鬼政府”。稱它為“吸血鬼”是因為他們榨乾人民的經濟活力。在非洲，政府著實是個問題。“吸血鬼政府”是（掌聲）被一群強盜和騙子劫持了的政府，這些人利用政府權力為他們自己，他們的親友，以及他們的族人謀私，並排擠旁人。非洲最富有的人都是些國家元首和部長官員，很多情況下，強盜頭子就是國家元首本身。他們的錢都是從哪來的呢？透過創造財富而來的嗎？絕不是。是從他們那些受苦受難的人民那兒搜刮來的。這不是財富創造，而是財富再分配。 我們要認識到的第三個重要問題是如果我們想幫助非洲人民，我們必須得知道非洲人民在哪裡。以任一個非洲國家體為例。一個非洲國家通常可被分為三個區域，現代，非官方，以及傳統。現代區域是“菁英階級”的活動區域，也是政府部門的所在地。在許多非洲國家，其現代區域已經沒有任何的作用，這一區域已經無法正常運轉。它只不過是華而不實的制度“舶來品”罷了。對此，菁英們並未體認到。這是許多非洲問題產生的根源，爭權奪利的鬥爭就從這裡開始，並擴散到非官方區域和傳統區域，並以無辜者的生命為代價。 如今，現代區域自然是多數經濟發展援助資源的去處。科特迪瓦80%以上的經濟發展都集中在現代區域。然而，其他區域，如非官方區域和傳統區域卻才是大多數非洲人民所生活的地方。這才是真正的非洲人民。很明顯，這該是常識，若想幫助某地人民，就該去他們所在之處。可是，事實恰好相反。事實上，我們忽略了非官方區域和傳統區域。現在非洲出產農作物的地方正是傳統區域，這就是為何非洲無法養活自己的原因之一，這也是為何非洲必須去進口糧食的原因。 你們無法在忽略非官方區域與傳統區域的情況下開發非洲。你們也無法在不瞭解非官方和傳統區域如何運行的情況下對這兩個區域進行開發。讓我來告訴你們，這兩個區域有著自己本土的制度。首先是其政治系統。傳統上來說，非洲人討厭政府，他們討厭專制。如果你們仔細觀察其傳統制度，就會發現非洲人民以兩種方式組織他們的國家：第一種屬於部族社會，他們認為國家必須是專制的，因此，他們不想建立任何與中央集權有關的東西。這樣的社會有伊博人，索馬里人和基庫尤人，他們沒有首領。 另一種部族社會他們的確有首領，但是他們確保這些首領被一層層的議會所牽制著以避免他們濫用自己的權利。例如阿善堤（非洲西部）的傳統其首領不能做任何決定，除非他與議會長老們取得共識。沒有議會，首領不能通過任何法令，若首領不按照人民的意願執政他將會被免除職務。或者，人民會放棄這個首領移居到其它地方重新建立一個聚居地。甚至，如果你們研究古代非洲帝國的話，也不難發現他們是在一特別條件下所組成的，即：邦聯原則。這一原則的主要特點就是權力下放：地方分權。 這就是我剛剛所描述的，非洲本土政治特色的一部份。現在，若將其與統治菁英階層在非洲所建立的現代制度相比較，真的相差十萬八千里。在傳統非洲的經濟制度中，生產所帶來的財富是私有的。是由各大家族所擁有。如你們所見，在西方，最基本的經濟和社會單位卻是個人。美國人會說：「我就是我，我可以在任何時間做任何我想做的事情。」這句話的重心在於“我”這個字。在非洲，非洲人說：「我的存在是因為我們這個群體。」這個“我們”意味著共同體：擴展到三代以上的家族體系。這個龐大的家族體系將所有資源整合在一起。 他們擁有農場，他們決定要做什麽，要生產什麽。他們不用服從任何首領的命令，而是自己決定做什麽。他們種植農作物，並在市集上將生產品賣掉。若有所盈利，這份盈利將是屬於他們自己，而不是被首領們搜刮走。所以，概括而言，傳統的非洲體系曾是個自由市場體系。在殖民者踏上非洲大陸之前，非洲就已經有市場了。廷巴克圖曾經是一個大市鎮。卡諾（尼日尼亞），沙拉加（加納）也曾都是。甚至在西非，你們也能夠發現由婦女們所主導的市場活動。所以，這一區域被稱為“市集”是非常貼切的。市場對非洲而言並不陌生 非洲人民所實施的是資本主義的另一種形式，但是，在獨立之後，突然間市場還有資本主義都變成了西方制度，同時領導者們也說非洲人民已經準備好進入社會主義了。純屬胡扯。即便如此，他們所實施的又是那種社會主義呢？他們的社會主義是一種特殊的“瑞市銀行社會主義”。在這種社會主義中，國家元首和部長們被允許強取豪奪非洲的存款與財富，並將他們存入瑞士的銀行。這可不是非洲人民數個世紀以來所認識的體系。我們現在該做些什麽？我們該回歸到非洲固有的本土制度。在這方面，我們讓“獵豹族”們到非官方區域和傳統區域去，在那兒才能找到非洲的人民。 我想給大家看個關於非官方區域有關造船的一個短片我自己就動員過散居各地的非洲人在這區域上進行投資。可以請您現在播放嗎？人們乘著這些小船進行捕魚。是的，這是個產業。這是由一個加納本地企業家用自己的資金所投資的。他沒有從政府那得到任何援助，他現在正在造第二艘更大的船。一條更大的船意味著捕獲和裝載更多的魚。這也意味著可以雇用更多加納人。相對的，他也可以創造出財富。隨之而來的就會有經濟學家們所稱的本土經濟的外部效應。你們，或所有菁英階層所要做的就是將該運作模式內部化，這樣，該模式的運行將會更加有效。 現在，不僅僅是在非官方區域這個區塊進行，傳統醫藥也是其中之一。80%的非洲人依賴於傳統醫藥。現代醫療保健部門幾乎完全起不了作用。在這一領域，我指的是在傳統醫藥這一領域存在著大量有待開發的寶藏。這些才真正是我們需要調動起非洲人民的地方，尤其是要動員起那些散居海外的非洲人在這些領域投資。我們也必須鼓吹他們投資在傳統領域，以及農業上，使非洲從根本改變。我們已經成功地鼓勵海外加納人帶給加納正面的改變，並為加納帶來民主。我相信，有了這些“獵豹族”們，我們一定能夠一點點地使非洲重複原貌。非常感謝大家。 （鼓掌）
