Talk	en	zh-tw
george_whitesides_toward_a_science_of_simplicity	"Most of the talks that you've heard in the last several fabulous days have been from people who have the characteristic that they have thought about something, they are experts, they know what's going on. All of you know about the topic that I'm supposed to talk about. That is, you know what simplicity is, you know what complexity is. The trouble is, I don't. And what I'm going to do is share with you my ignorance on this subject. I want you to read this, because we're going to come back to it in a moment. The quote is from the fabled Potter Stewart opinion on pornography. And let me just read it, the important details here: ""Shorthand description, ['hardcore pornography']; and perhaps I could never succeed in intelligibly defining it. But I know it when I see it."" I'm going to come back to that in a moment. So, what is simplicity? It's good to start with some examples. A coffee cup — we don't think about coffee cups, but it's much more interesting than one might think — a coffee cup is a device, which has a container and a handle. The handle enables you to hold it when the container is filled with hot liquid. Why is that important? Well, it enables you to drink coffee. But also, by the way, the coffee is hot, the liquid is sterile; you're not likely to get cholera that way. So the coffee cup, or the cup with a handle, is one of the tools used by society to maintain public health. Scissors are your clothes, glasses enable you to see things and keep you from being eaten by cheetahs or run down by automobiles, and books are, after all, your education. But there's another class of simple things, which are also very important. Simple in function, but not at all simple in how they're constructed. And the two here are just examples. One is the cellphone, which we use every day. And it rests on a complexity, which has some characteristics very different from those that my friend Benoit Mandelbrot discussed, but are very interesting. And the other, of course, is a birth control pill, which, in a very simple way, fundamentally changed the structure of society by changing the role of women in it by providing to them the opportunity to make reproductive choices. So, there are two ways of thinking about this word, I think. And here I've corrupted the Potter Stewart quotation by saying that we can think about something — which spans all the way from scissors to the cell phone, Internet and birth control pills — by saying that they're simple, the functions are simple, and we recognize what that simplicity is when we see it. Or there may be another way of doing it, which is to think about the problem in terms of what — if you associate with moral philosophers — is called the teapot problem. The teapot problem I'll pose this way. Suppose you see a teapot, and the teapot is filled with hot water. And you then ask the question: Why is the water hot? And that's a simple question. It's like, what is simplicity? One answer would be: because the kinetic energy of the water molecules is high and they bounce against things rapidly — that's a kind of physical science argument. A second argument would be: because it was sitting on a stove with the flame on — that's an historical argument. A third is that I wanted hot water for tea — that's an intentional argument. And, since this is coming from a moral philosopher, the fourth would be that it's part of God's plan for the universe. All of these are possibilities. The point is that you get into trouble when you ask a single question with a single box for an answer, in which that single question actually is many questions with quite different meanings, but with the same words. Asking, ""What is simplicity?"" I think falls in that category. What is the state of science? And, interestingly, complexity is very highly evolved. We have a lot of interesting information about what complexity is. Simplicity, for reasons that are a little bit obscure, is almost not pursued, at least in the academic world. We academics — I am an academic — we love complexity. You can write papers about complexity, and the nice thing about complexity is it's fundamentally intractable in many ways, so you're not responsible for outcomes. (Laughter) Simplicity — all of you really would like your Waring Blender in the morning to make whatever a Waring Blender does, but not explode or play Beethoven. You're not interested in the limits of these things. So what one is interested in has a lot to do with the rewards of the system. And there's a lot of rewards in thinking about complexity and emergence, not so much in thinking about simplicity. One of the things I want to do is to help you with a very important task — which you may not know that you have very often — which is to understand how to sit next to a physicist at a dinner party and have a conversation. (Laughter) And the words that I would like you to focus on are complexity and emergence, because these will enable you to start the conversation and then daydream about other things. (Laughter) All right, what is complexity in this view of things, and what is emergence? We have, actually, a pretty good working definition of complexity. It is a system, like traffic, which has components. The components interact with one another. These are cars and drivers. They dissipate energy. It turns out that, whenever you have that system, weird stuff happens, and you in Los Angeles probably know this better than anyone. Here's another example, which I put up because it's an example of really important current science. You can't possibly read that. It's not intended that you read it, but that's a tiny part of the chemical reactions going on in each of your cells at any given moment. And it's like the traffic that you see. The amazing thing about the cell is that it actually does maintain a fairly stable working relationship with other cells, but we don't know why. Anyone who tells you that we understand life, walk away. And let me reduce this to the simplest level. We've heard from Bill Gates recently. All of us, to some extent, study this thing called a Bill Gates. Terrific. You learn everything you can about that. And then there's another kind of thing that you might study, and you study that hard. That's a Bono, this is a Bono. But then, if you know everything you can know about those two things, and you put them together, what can you say about this combination? The answer is, not a lot. And that's complexity. Now, imagine building that up to a city, or to a society, and you've got, obviously, an interesting problem. All right, so let me give you an example of simplicity of a particular kind. And I want to introduce a word that I think is very useful, which is stacking. And I'm going to use stacking for a kind of simplicity that has the characteristic that it is so simple and so reliable that I can build things with it. Or I'm going to use simple to mean reliable, predictable, repeatable. And I'm going to use as an example the Internet, because it's a particularly good example of stacked simplicity. We call it a complex system, which it is, but it's also something else. The Internet starts with mathematics, it starts with binary. And if you look at the list of things on the bottom, we are familiar with the Arabic numbers one to 10 and so on. In binary, one is 0001, seven is 0111. The question is: Why is binary simpler than Arabic? And the answer is, simply, that if I hold up three fingers, you can count that easily, but if I hold up this, it's sort of hard to say that I just did seven. The virtue of binary is that it's the simplest possible way of representing numbers. Anything else is more complicated. You can catch errors with it, it's unambiguous in its reading, there are lots of good things about binary. So it is very, very simple once you learn how to read it. Now, if you like to represent this zero and one of binary, you need a device. And think of things in your life that are binary, one of them is light switches. They can be on and off. That's binary. Now wall switches, we all know, fail. But our friends who are condensed matter physicists managed to come up, some 50 years ago, with a very nice device, shown under that bell jar, which is a transistor. A transistor is nothing more than a wall switch. It turns things on and off, but it does so without moving parts and it doesn't fail, basically, for a very long period of time. So the second layer of simplicity was the transistor in the Internet. So, since the transistor is so simple, you can put lots of them together. And you put lots of them together and you come with something called integrated circuits. And a current integrated circuit might have in each one of these chips something like a billion transistors, all of which have to work perfectly every time. So that's the next layer of simplicity, and, in fact, integrated circuits are really simple in the sense that they, in general, work really well. With integrated circuits, you can build cellphones. You all are accustomed to having your cellphones work the large majority of the time. In Boston ... Boston is a little bit like Namibia in its cell phone coverage, (Laughter) so that we're not accustomed to that all the time, but some of the time. But, in fact, if you have cell phones, you can now go to this nice lady who's somewhere like Namibia, and who is extremely happy with the fact that although she does not have an master's degree in electrical engineering from MIT, she's nonetheless able to hack her cell phone to get power in some funny way. And from that comes the Internet. And this is a map of bitflows across the continent. The two blobs that are light in the middle there are the United States and Europe. And then back to simplicity again. So here we have what I think is one of the great ideas, which is Google. Which, in this simple portal makes the claim that it makes accessible all of the world's information. But the point is that that extraordinary simple idea rests on layers of simplicity each compounded into a complexity that is itself simple, in the sense that it is completely reliable. All right, let me then finish off with four general statements, an example and two aphorisms. The characteristics, which I think are useful to think about for simple things: First, they are predictable. Their behavior is predictable. Now, one of the nice characteristics of simple things is you know what it's going to do, in general. So simplicity and predictability are characteristics of simple things. The second is, and this is a real world statement, they're cheap. If you have things that are cheap enough, people will find uses for them, even if they seem very primitive. So, for example, stones. You can build cathedrals out of stones, you just have to know what it does. You carve them in blocks and then you pile them on top of one another, and they support weight. So there has to be function, the function has to be predictable and the cost has to be low. What that means is that you have to have a high performance or value for cost. And then I would propose as this last component that they serve, or have the potential to serve, as building blocks. That is, you can stack them. And stack can mean this way, or it can mean this way, or it can mean in some arbitrary n-dimensional space. But if you have something that has a function, and it's really cheap, people will find new ways of putting it together to make new things. Cheap, functional, reliable things unleash the creativity of people who then build stuff that you could not imagine. There's no way of predicting the Internet based on the first transistor. It just is not possible. So these are the components. Now, the example is something that I want to give you from the work that we ourselves do. We are very interested in delivering health care in the developing world, and one of the things that we wish to do in this particular business is to find a way of doing medical diagnosis at as close to zero cost as we can manage. So, how does one do that? This is a world in which there's no electricity, there's no money, there's no medical competence. And I don't want to spend your time in going through the details, but in the lower right-hand corner, you see an example of the kind of thing that we have. It's a little paper chip. It has a few things printed on it using the same technology that you use for making comic books, which was the inspiration for this particular idea. And you put a drop, in this case, of urine at the bottom. It wicks its way up into these little branches. You know, no power required. It turns colors. In this particular case, you're reading kidney function. And, since the health care worker of much of this part of the world is an 18 year-old with an AK-47, who happens to be out of work and is willing to go around and do this sort of thing, he can take a picture of it with his cellphone, send the picture back to where there is a doctor, and the doctor can look at it. So what you've done is to take a technology, which is available everywhere, make a device, which is extremely cheap, and make it in such a fashion that it is very, very reliable. If we can pull this off, if we can build more function, it will be stackable. That is to say, if we can make the basic technology of one or two things work, it will be applicable to a very, very large variety of human conditions, and hence, extendable in both vertical and horizontal directions. Part of my interest in this, I have to say, is that I would like to — how do I put this politely? — change the way, or maybe eviscerate, the capital structure of the U.S. health care system, which I think is fundamentally broken. So, let me close — (Applause) Let me close with my two aphorisms. One of them is from Mr. Einstein, and he says, ""Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler."" And I think that's a very good way of thinking about the problem. If you take too much out of something that's simple, you lose function. You have to have low cost, but you also have to have a function. So you can't make it too simple. And the second is a design issue, and it's not directly relevant, but it's a nice statement. This is by de Saint-Exupery. And he says, ""You know you've achieved perfection in design, not when you have nothing more to add, but when you have nothing more to take away."" And that certainly is going in the right direction. So, what I think one can begin to do with this kind of cut at the word simplicity, which doesn't cover Brancusi, it doesn't answer the question of why Mondrian is better or worse or simpler or less simpler than Van Gogh, and certainly doesn't address the question of whether Mozart is simpler than Bach. But it does make a point — which is one which, in a sense, differentiates the real world of people who make things, and the world of people who think about things, which is, there is an intellectual merit to asking: How do we make things as simple as we can, as cheap as we can, as functional as we can and as freely interconnectable as we can? If we make that kind of simplicity in our technology and then give it to you guys, you can go off and do all kinds of fabulous things with it. Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: Quick question. So can you picture that a science of simplicity might get to the point where you could look out at various systems — say a financial system or a legal system, health system — and say, ""That has got to the point of danger or dysfunctionality for the following reasons, and this is how we might simplify it""? George Whitesides: Yes, I think you could. Because if you look at the components from which the system is made and examine their fragility, or their stability, you can probably build a kind of risk assessment based on that basis. CA: Have you started to do that? I mean, with the health system, you got a sort of radical solution on the cost side, but in terms of the system itself? GW: Well, no. How do I put that simply? No. CA: That was a simple, powerful answer. GW: Yes. CA: So, in terms of that diagnostic technology that you've got, where is that, and when do you see that maybe getting rolled out to scale. GW: That's coming out soon. I mean, the systems work, and we have to find out how to manufacture them and do things of this kind, but the basic technology works. CA: You've got a company set up to ... GW: A foundation, a foundation. Not-for-profit. CA: All right. Well, thank you so much for your talk. Thank you. (Applause)"	各位這幾天所聽到的大多數精彩演說都是具有專業特長學有專精的專家經過深思熟慮所發表的演說大家都知道我將發表的講題是什麼各位都知道什麼是「簡單」知道什麼是「複雜」問題是：我並不知道因此我將與各位分享我對講題的無知 請大家讀這段引述因為不久後我們還會回到這段話這是鼎鼎大名的最高法院大法官波特•司徒華談論色情所發表的一段話那麼我現在念其中的重要細節「簡略的描述，重鹹濕的色情我恐怕無法給它清楚的定義但一看就知道」我還會回到這段話 那麼，什麼是「簡單」？我們先舉個例子咖啡杯，我們不會想太多但它可能比你認為的還有趣得多咖啡杯是一種器具，對是一種容器，對；還有握柄，對如果容器裡裝滿熱水的話握柄讓你能握住杯子，是吧那有什麼重要呢？嗯，它讓你能喝咖啡而且咖啡是熱的液體是煮沸消毒過的這樣你就不會感染霍亂那麼咖啡杯或是有握柄的杯子是社會上用來維護公共衛生的工具之一剪刀用來剪裁衣服眼鏡讓你能看見東西也讓你不被印度豹給吃了或讓汽車給撞著了還有書，這是用來教育你的 不過還有其它簡單的東西，同樣重要功能簡單構造卻不簡單這裡有兩個例子一是我們天天使用的行動電話其構造極其複雜所具有的特性和我的朋友貝諾特•曼德爾博特談到的有很大不同但是也很有趣另一例當然是避孕藥了它既簡單又根本地改變了社會結構避孕藥為婦女所提供的選擇懷孕與否的機會改變了婦女的角色 我想有兩種方式來思考這個詞那麼我稍微修改一下波特•司徒華的那段話從剪刀開始一直到行動電話網際網路和避孕藥等等，都有一個共通點：它們都很簡單在功能上都是簡單的大家都看見它們的「簡單」一看就知道 也許另有別的方式來看事情也就是從道德哲學家的觀點來思考這個問題那就是所謂的茶壺問題茶壺問題嘛，這麼說吧假設你看到把茶壺茶壺裡盛滿了熱水你提出問題啦：為什麼水是熱的？這個問題很簡單就像問：「簡單」是什麼？有個答案是：因為水分子運動能量高撞擊的速度很快這是物理的論點第二個論點是：因為它剛剛在爐子上燒這是歷史的論點第三個是：我要用熱水泡茶這是交代意圖的論點這是道德哲學家的回答第四個是：這是上帝對宇宙的安排的一部分這些答案都有可能 重點是，你會有麻煩如果你只問一個問題只要一個答案但那個問題其實包含許多問題意義大不相同卻使用相同的字彙問「簡單」什麼是，我想就是這類的問題科學的現況是什麼？有趣的是其中所牽涉到的極其複雜關於複雜我們有許多有趣的資訊不太清楚到底出於什麼原因幾乎無人探討簡單至少學界情況是如此 我們學界中人，我是學界的我們喜歡複雜論文談的盡是複雜談論複雜，最棒的是基本上在許多方面是屹立不搖的因此你可以不必為結果負責「簡單」呢，早上起來大家都會用果汁機打些什麼吃的喝的你不會希望它爆炸或彈奏貝多芬你對這類東西的侷限沒多大興趣那麼大家有興趣的其實跟回報很有關係思考「複雜」和「顯現」能帶來許多的獎賞思考「簡單」獎賞就沒那麼多了我想做的事情之一是幫助你應付一個重要的場面這種情況不難理解你可能常常不知道在餐宴上坐在一位物理學家旁邊該跟他說些什麼那我告訴你要注意的兩個詞是：「複雜」和「顯現」它們讓你能開始聊還能繼續跟他一起作其它的白日夢 （笑聲） 好吧，「複雜」是什麼？「顯現」又是什麼？我們對於複雜其實有個很好的定義它是一種系統，像是交通系統有其組成的零件零件之間有互動汽車和開車的人，他們消耗能量結果呢，只要有了這樣的系統奇怪的事情就會發生各位住在洛杉磯可能比別人都清楚這一點這裡還有另一個例子我提出來是因為這是當前科學上重要的例子這不可能看得清楚，本來就不要大家讀的但這是你們的每一個微小細胞裡隨時都在進行的化學反應就像是大家看到的交通狀況關於細胞，令人訝異的是它確實與其它的細胞維持著相當穩定的運作關係我們不知道為何如此那些聲稱懂得生命的人沒有解釋就走了 那麼，我把這一切簡化到最簡單的層次我們最近聽了比爾•蓋茲演說我們大家多多少少都研究了這個叫「比爾•蓋茲」的東西你盡量學習了關於他的一切你可能另外還研究別的東西你很用功研究這是波諾你盡所能了解有關這兩者的一切後把他們放在一起你能得到的組合是什麼？答案是：不多那就是複雜那麼，推而及之於一個城市或一個社會顯然的這是個有趣的問題 好吧，讓我舉一個一種特殊的「簡單」的例子然後我要介紹一個我認為很有用的詞那就是「堆疊」我將「堆疊」出一種「簡單」這種「簡單」具有可以說是既簡單又可靠的特性可以用來建構別的東西當我說「簡單」，意思是可靠、可預測、可重複拿網際網路來說這是個很好的「堆疊簡單」的特例我們稱網際網路為「複雜系統」，確實也是但也有別的意思 網際網路始於數學始於二進位系統各位如果看看底下的清單大家都熟悉阿拉伯數字一到十等等的在二進位系統裡一是0001七是0111問題是：為什麼使用二進位會比使用阿拉伯數字簡單？答案很簡單：如果我伸出三根指頭，你能輕易的數但如果是這個要說我剛才比了個七可不容易二進位的好處是：它是表示數字最簡單的辦法其它都更複雜二進位很容易找到錯誤只有一種解讀法二進位系統有許多好處只要懂得解讀法它就非常非常簡單那麼，如果要表示二進位系統的零和一需要使用一種裝置那麼，想一想生活中有什麼二進位的東西其中之一就是電燈開關開關非開即關－這就是二進位 牆上的開關有時會壞掉但是五十年前我們那些積體物理學家朋友們發明了鐘形罐裡的那個很棒的裝置也就是電晶體電晶體其實和牆上的開關沒有兩樣，非開即關但不必移動零件而且很長時間不會壞掉那麼，「簡單」的第二個層次是進入電晶體和網際網路時代由於電晶體構造非常簡單可以把很多個放在一起做成積體電路現在的積體電路每一個晶片上可能有大約十億個電晶體每個晶體都必須完美運作這就是「簡單」的另一個層次事實上，積體電路真的非常簡單，因為運作一般都很暢順 用積體電路可以做行動電話大家都習慣行動電話可以打得通大部分的時候是打得通的波士頓行動電話的涵蓋率和納米比亞差不多所以通常沒有那麼幸運只是有時打得通但只要有行動電話現在就可以去拜訪像這位在納米比亞的女士她會很高興自己不必擁有MIT的電機工程碩士學位照樣能玩行動電話玩得很開心網際網路也是從這裡開始這兒有一張跨洲位元流動圖中間有兩個發亮的區塊是美國和歐洲 現在回到「簡單」這個話題我認為最偉大的想法之一就是Google這個簡單的入口網站聲稱透過這個網站能夠獲取全世界的資訊不過值得注意的是異常簡單的想法是建立在許多層次的「簡單」之上複合而成的「複雜」卻仍然是簡單的因為它的功能完全可靠 好吧，讓我用四個表述、一個例子兩句箴言來總結我認為簡單的東西所具有的特性：首先，它們都是可預測的其行為是可預測的簡單的東西具有的特性之一是你通常知道它會做什麼那麼，簡單的東西具有「簡單」和「可預測」的特性其次，這是現實面的表述它們很便宜東西如果夠便宜即使看起來非常原始人們就會為它們找到用途以石頭為例石頭可用來建造大教堂只要知道它的性質把石頭切成石塊再一塊一塊堆起來它們就能承受重量 那麼，只要可預測功能而且成本低廉換句話說要有高效益即價值和成本必須成比例我提出的最後一個部份是要提供服務或具有服務潛能像建築石塊一般也就是可以堆疊起來可以是直的，也可以是橫的也可以在 N 次元空間堆疊但某種東西具有功能而且真的便宜自然會有人找到組合的方式創造出新的既便宜、有功能又可靠的東西解放人們的創造力就可以創造出意想不到的東西發明電晶體時，並沒有料到會有網際網路當時想都想不到以上是「簡單」的組成要素 現在舉個例子我想告訴各位一點我們的研究成果我們非常感興趣在發展中國家提供醫療保健我們想做的事之一就是找到醫學診斷的方法盡量讓成本近乎於零如何做到呢？那些國家沒有電力沒有經費，醫藥也不發達我不想浪費時間詳述細節在右下角可以看一個例子那是一張小小的紙晶片上面印著一些東西製作的科技和印製漫畫書相同這個想法的靈感其實也來自漫畫書滴一滴尿液在晶片下方尿液往上滲入那些小分枝大家可看見無須耗用能量紙晶片就會變色－這個晶片可以判讀腎臟功能大多數這些發展中國家的醫療保健工作人員是拿著AK-47的18歲青年找不到其它差事才來做這份工作他可用行動電話拍下照片將照片傳送到醫生那裡醫生就可以檢查照片 這是一種到處都能運用的科技製造一種極為便宜的裝置而且把它做成非常可靠的東西要是能夠成功拓展要是能有更多功能就是可「堆疊」的科技換句話說，如果能使基本科技的一兩項功能順利運作那麼該科技將可應用到許許多多不同的人類需求因此能朝著垂直和水平的方向不斷擴展我必須說我對此的興趣之一是－請恕我冒昧直言－我想改變或也許是切除美國醫療保健系統的主要結構我認為那個系統根本已經失靈了 我的結論是（鼓掌） 用兩句箴言來總結一句是愛因斯坦說的他說「一切都要做到最簡單，簡單到不能再簡單」我認為這個思考模式棒極了在簡單的東西上減一分便會失一分功能一方面要降低成本另一方面顧及功能因此不能太過簡單再來是有關設計的問題雖然沒有直接的關係，但這句箴言不錯 聖埃克絮佩里他說：「設計達到完美時並非你不能再加點什麼而是無法再做任何刪減。」這個思考方向肯定是正確的我想可以根據這種「簡單」的原則開始做的雖不能包括朗古奇的機械也無法回答為什麼蒙德里安的畫作比梵谷的好或壞或是簡單或不簡單些當然也不能解答莫札特是否比巴哈簡單 但這是重點這個重點可以在現實世界中辨別出誰真的在創造誰真的用心思考問題這個問題具有學術價值—我們如何能盡可能既簡單又便宜還兼顧功能，創造設備並能自由地互相結合？如果在科技上能達成那樣的「簡單」提供給大眾使用各位就能做各種美妙的事 感謝您的聆聽 （鼓掌） 克里斯•安德森：問個小問題您是說您可以預見一種「簡單」的科學可能發展到這種程度：只須檢驗不同的系統比方金融、法律或醫療系統，就可說診斷該系統已經達到危險或功能失衡的地步診斷也可以簡化到能這的方式？ 喬治•懷德賽芝：是的，應該做得到只要看看系統構成的零件並檢驗其脆弱度或穩定度就可以進行風險評估 克•安: 您已經開始這樣做了嗎？在醫療系統中，您在成本上提出非常先進的解決方案但在系統本身怎麼辦呢？ 喬•: 嗯，不是那樣我怎麼簡單的回答你呢，真的不是 克•安：好個簡單有力的回答　喬•懷：沒錯 克•安：那麼，關於您發明的診斷科技已問世了嗎？何時能看到它量產上市呢？ 喬•懷：很快就會上市了，我是說，這是可行的我們研發出製造流程，敲定這些事情這一項科技是可以實際運用的 克•安：你成立了公司嗎？喬•懷：基金會，是個基金會，非營利的 克•安：那好，非常感謝您的演說，謝謝
