Talk	en	zh-tw
gever_tulley_on_5_dangerous_things_for_kids	"Welcome to ""Five Dangerous Things You Should Let Your Children Do."" I don't have children. I borrow my friends' children, so — (Laughter) take all this advice with a grain of salt. I'm Gever Tulley. I'm a contract computer scientist by trade, but I'm the founder of something called the Tinkering School. It's a summer program which aims to help kids learn how to build the things that they think of. So we build a lot of things, and I do put power tools into the hands of second-graders. So if you're thinking about sending your kid to Tinkering School, they do come back bruised, scraped and bloody. (Laughter) You know, we live in a world that's subjected to ever more stringent child safety regulations. There doesn't seem to be any limit on how crazy child safety regulations can get. We put suffocation warnings on every piece of plastic film manufactured in the United States, or for sale with an item in the United States. We put warnings on coffee cups to tell us that the contents may be hot. And we seem to think that any item sharper than a golf ball is too sharp for children under the age of 10. So where does this trend stop? When we round every corner and eliminate every sharp object, every pokey bit in the world, then the first time that kids come in contact with anything sharp, or not made out of round plastic, they'll hurt themselves with it. So, as the boundaries of what we determine as the safety zone grow ever smaller, we cut off our children from valuable opportunities to learn how to interact with the world around them. And despite all of our best efforts and intentions, kids are always going to figure out how to do the most dangerous thing they can, in whatever environment they can. (Laughter) So despite the provocative title, this presentation is really about safety, and about some simple things that we can do to raise our kids to be creative, confident and in control of the environment around them. And what I now present to you is an excerpt from a book in progress. The book is called ""50 Dangerous Things."" This is ""Five Dangerous Things."" Thing number one: Play with fire. Learning to control one of the most elemental forces in nature is a pivotal moment in any child's personal history. Whether we remember it or not, it's the first time we really get control of one of these mysterious things. These mysteries are only revealed to those who get the opportunity to play with it. So, playing with fire. This is like one of the great things we ever discovered, fire. From playing with it, they learn some basic principles about fire, about intake, combustion, exhaust. These are the three working elements of fire that you have to have for a good, controlled fire. And you can think of the open-pit fire as a laboratory. You don't know what they're going to learn from playing with it. Let them fool around with it on their own terms and trust me, they're going to learn things that you can't get out of playing with Dora the Explorer toys. (Laughter) Number two: Own a pocketknife. Pocketknives are kind of drifting out of our cultural consciousness, which I think is a terrible thing. (Laughter) Your first pocketknife is like the first universal tool that you're given. You know, it's a spatula, it's a pry bar, it's a screwdriver and it's a blade, yeah. And it's a powerful and empowering tool. And in a lot of cultures they give knives — like, as soon as they're toddlers, they have knives. These are Inuit children cutting whale blubber. I first saw this in a Canadian Film Board film when I was 10, and it left a lasting impression, to see babies playing with knives. And it shows that kids can develop an extended sense of self through a tool at a very young age. You lay down a couple of very simple rules — always cut away from your body, keep the blade sharp, never force it — and these are things kids can understand and practice with. And yeah, they're going to cut themselves. I have some terrible scars on my legs from where I stabbed myself. But you know, they're young. They heal fast. (Laughter) Number three: Throw a spear. It turns out that our brains are actually wired for throwing things, and like muscles, if you don't use parts of your brain, they tend to atrophy over time. But when you exercise them, any given muscle adds strength to the whole system, and that applies to your brain, too. So practicing throwing things has been shown to stimulate the frontal and parietal lobes, which have to do with visual acuity, 3D understanding, and structural problem solving, so it helps develop their visualization skills and their predictive ability. And throwing is a combination of analytical and physical skill, so it's very good for that kind of whole-body training. These kinds of target-based practices also help kids develop attention and concentration skills, so those are great. Number [four]: Deconstruct appliances. There is a world of interesting things inside your dishwasher. Next time you're about to throw out an appliance, don't throw it out. Take it apart with your kid, or send him to my school, and we'll take it apart with them. Even if you don't know what the parts are, puzzling out what they might be for is a really good practice for the kids to get sort of the sense that they can take things apart, and no matter how complex they are, they can understand parts of them. And that means that eventually, they can understand all of them. It's a sense of knowability, that something is knowable. So these black boxes that we live with and take for granted are actually complex things made by other people, and you can understand them. Number five: Two-parter. Break the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. (Laughter) There are laws beyond safety regulations that attempt to limit how we can interact with the things that we own — in this case, digital media. It's a very simple exercise: Buy a song on iTunes, write it to a CD, then rip the CD to an MP3, and play it on your very same computer. You've just broken a law. Technically, the RIAA could come and prosecute you. It's an important lesson for kids to understand, that some of these laws get broken by accident, and that laws have to be interpreted. That's something we often talk about with the kids when we're fooling around with things and breaking them open, and taking them apart and using them for other things. And also when we go out and drive a car. Driving a car is a really empowering act for a young child, so this is the alternate — (Laughter) For those of you who aren't comfortable actually breaking the law, you can drive a car with your child. This is a great stage for a kid. This happens about the same time that they get latched onto things like dinosaurs, these big things in the outside world, that they're trying to get a grip on. A car is a similar object, and they can get in a car and drive it. And that really gives them a handle on a world in a way that they don't often have access to. And it's perfectly legal. Find a big empty lot, make sure there's nothing in it, and that it's on private property, and let them drive your car. It's very safe actually. And it's fun for the whole family. (Laughter) Let's see, I think that's it. That's number five and a half. OK."	歡迎收看「父母要讓小孩子做的五件危險事」。我沒有小孩，我都向朋友借小孩，所以(笑聲)請不要隨便相信我給的建議。我是蓋佛．陶利。工作是接案的電腦科學家，同時也是東敲西打學校 (Tinkering School) 的創辦人。這是一個暑期課程，目的是要讓小孩子在暑假時可以學到如何創造出自己想做的東西，所以我們做了一大堆東西。我會把電動工具交到小學二年級生手上，所以如果你想把你的孩子送到東敲西打學校，之後他們一定會帶著瘀青、破皮和血跡回家。所以，你可以看到，我們所處的社會受到比以往更嚴格的兒童安全守則所規範。這些守則看起來真是沒完沒了的無限上綱。我們會把小心窒息的標語貼在所有在美國製造或販售的商品或包裝的塑膠膜上；我們會在所有的咖啡杯上註明警告標語，提醒消費者溶液可能很燙；我們甚至認為對10歲以下的兒童來說，只要比高爾夫球尖一點的東西就是太尖銳了。 這樣的情形什麼時候才會停止?當我們忙著磨平稜角，銷毀每個有尖角的物品、每個那些令人不舒服的小地方，結果我們的小孩生平第一次碰到一個尖尖的，或者不是圓圓的塑膠製品時，他們就會弄傷自己。換言之，我們大人所認定的安全區域範圍愈窄，就愈切斷了我們的孩子寶貴的去學習與整個世界互動的機會。儘管我們費盡心思去保護孩子，但不管在什麼情形下，孩子硬是有辦法去找到最危險的事來做。所以撇開這個聳動的標題，今天這個講題真正要說的是兒童安全，以及透過一些簡單的事，使孩子變得有創意、有自信，並能掌握週遭的環境。我現在要告訴你們的是取自我正在寫的一本書的摘錄，書名叫『50件危險的事』。而這是其中五件。 第一件事－玩火。在每一個兒童成長過程中，都會經歷一段重要的關鍵期，在這個期間，他會試著去控制自然界中某一項最基本的元素力量。不管我們記不記得，那是我們第一次真正有能力去控制這些神秘的事物。但只有那些有機會與之接觸的人才得以一窺其面目。所以就去玩火吧!火是我們人類的發現中最偉大的東西之一。藉由玩火，小孩子學習到一些關於火的基本原理，像是進氣、燃燒跟排氣。如果你想好好的控制火，這三種原素缺一不可。你可以把露天的火坑想像成一個實驗室，你不會曉得他們在玩的時候將會學到什麼。就讓他們隨意玩火吧，相信我，他們會學到跟玩《愛探險的朵拉》玩具所學到的不一樣的東西。 第二件事－擁有摺疊刀。在這個社會的文化認知中，摺疊小刀漸漸的離我們愈來愈遠，我個人覺得這是件很糟糕的事。(笑聲)你的第一把摺疊小刀就像是你所獲得的第一個萬用工具，它可以是小鏟子、撬桿、螺絲起子跟刀片。而且，它是個賦與你更多能力的工具。在很多文化中，他們給小孩刀子，而且是當小孩還在蹣跚學步的時候就擁有刀子。這是因紐特族 (愛斯基摩人) 的小孩正在割鯨脂的圖片。我第一次看到它是在加拿大電影局的電影裡，那時候我才10歲，看到小寶寶們玩刀子讓我至今仍印象深刻。它顯示出小孩在很小的時候，就可以透過一項工具來擴展自我意識。你只要訂下幾條簡單的規則，像是刀鋒要向外、保持刀片鋒利、不要用蠻力使用刀子等等。而這些是小孩可以理解並且可以做到的。沒錯，他們一定會割到自己，我的腿上就有自己戳到的難看的傷疤。不過就像你也知道的，他們還很小，恢復力很快。(笑聲) 第三件事 — 拋出一個矛。你會發現原來我們的腦袋是為了拋東西而聯繫著。就好像我們的肌肉，如果我們不用我們的腦袋，它們便漸漸地萎縮。但當你鍛鍊它們，每一個肌肉都會為整個系統注入能量，而這同樣能應用在腦袋中。所以練習拋東西能刺激前腦葉及頭頂腦葉。它們是負責我們的視覺感觀，理解立體影像，及解決結構問題。因此它給我們一種感觀 —這幫助他們發展視覺技巧和預測能力。而拋東西結合著分析及體能的訓練，這有助於整體發展。而這些有目標的練習亦能幫助兒童發展他們的專注力和集中力。所以非常有效。 第四件事是 — 解體電器。在洗碗機中有很多有趣的物件。下一次當你把電器丟棄時，不要只把它丟棄。與你的孩子一起把它解體或把孩子送到我們的學校，我們會與他們一起把它拆解。雖然你不明白那些分拆的零件是什麼，或對它們的功能感到困惑，但這其實是對兒童一個很好的鍛鍊，讓他們知道他們有能力拆解東西，而無論它們有多複雜，他們已明白其中一部份，這也意味著他們有一天會瞭解所有的事情。這是一種認知，明白有些事情是可以理解的。而在我們生活中的黑盒子和那些理所當然的事情，其實是其他人製造出來的複雜東西，而你卻能明白它們。 第五件事 — 就是第四件事的下集，違反數位千禧智權法案。(笑聲)有些法律不是在規範安全界線，而是在嘗試限制我們如何去使用我們擁有的東西 —我要舉的例子是數位媒體。這是一個非常簡單的練習 — 在iTunes裡買一首歌曲寫在一個光碟裡，然後把光碟轉換成MP3，然後在同一部電腦中播放，這樣就算觸犯法律了。基本上，美國唱片業協會可以來告你。這是孩子應該明白的重要課題 —你可能在無意中就觸犯法律了，而這些法律卻需要有人替你詮釋你才會瞭解。而這是我們經常告訴孩子們的事，當我們把東西亂搞一通，而後將它們打開分拆而後用於其他東西上 —又或是當我們外出去駕車，駕駛一輛車—對兒童來說是一件非常鼓舞的事情，而這是最極限的。(笑聲) 對於你們那些不甚願意去觸犯法律的人，你可以與孩子駕駛一輛車子。這是孩子一個很大的里程碑。這就好像是當孩子被鎖在一些類似恐龍的機器裡，這些龐大的機器在外太空遊盪，而他們只能牢牢地抓住某樣東西。車輛是類似的東西，而他們可以坐在車上駕駛它。這好像是給他們一個開啟世界的把手，並用他們以前不能用或不經常用的方法去開啟。而這是完全的合法。找一個大型空置停車場，確定那裡沒有其他東西，而那又是一個私人產業，然後讓他們駕駛你的車輛。這其實的非常的安全而且能帶給整個家庭樂趣。(笑聲)好，想想吧。我想就是這樣了。這算是五又二分一吧。
