Talk	en	zh-tw
gever_tulley_s_tinkering_school_in_action	This is the exact moment that I started creating something called Tinkering School. Tinkering School is a place where kids can pick up sticks and hammers and other dangerous objects, and be trusted. Trusted not to hurt themselves, and trusted not to hurt others. Tinkering School doesn't follow a set curriculum, and there are no tests. We're not trying to teach anybody any specific thing. When the kids arrive they're confronted with lots of stuff: wood and nails and rope and wheels, and lots of tools, real tools. It's a six-day immersive experience for the kids. And within that context, we can offer the kids time — something that seems in short supply in their over-scheduled lives. Our goal is to ensure that they leave with a better sense of how to make things than when they arrived, and the deep internal realization that you can figure things out by fooling around. Nothing ever turns out as planned ... ever. (Laughter) And the kids soon learn that all projects go awry — (Laughter) and become at ease with the idea that every step in a project is a step closer to sweet success, or gleeful calamity. We start from doodles and sketches. And sometimes we make real plans. And sometimes we just start building. Building is at the heart of the experience: hands on, deeply immersed and fully committed to the problem at hand. Robin and I, acting as collaborators, keep the landscape of the projects tilted towards completion. Success is in the doing, and failures are celebrated and analyzed. Problems become puzzles and obstacles disappear. When faced with particularly difficult setbacks or complexities, a really interesting behavior emerges: decoration. (Laughter) Decoration of the unfinished project is a kind of conceptual incubation. From these interludes come deep insights and amazing new approaches to solving the problems that had them frustrated just moments before. All materials are available for use. Even those mundane, hateful, plastic grocery bags can become a bridge stronger than anyone imagined. And the things that they build amaze even themselves. Video: Three, two, one, go! Gever Tulley: A rollercoaster built by seven-year-olds. Video: Yay! (Applause) GT: Thank you. It's been a great pleasure. (Applause)	就是在那個時候我創辦了一間萬能小工匠學校 萬能小工匠學校是一個孩子可以拿棍子、鐵鎚還有其他危險物品並且可以放心地使用的地方。我們不用擔心他們會傷害自己也不用擔心他們會傷害別人。小工匠學校沒有一個固定的課程表也沒有任何考試。我們不是要教任何人什麼特定的技能。 當孩子來到這裡他們會接觸到很多東西如木頭、釘子、繩子、輪子等等。還有很多工具, 是真正的工具。對這些孩子來說，這六天是一個深切的體驗。在這個情況下，我們可以給孩子時間而在他們緊湊的日程表上,這些時間似乎不夠用。我們的目標是去確定 在離開學校的那天他們會比剛來到的時候對建造物件有更清楚的概念並且讓他們真正了解到即使是一些看起來不太專業的工作，你也能從中獲益。 沒有任何成果會如計畫的一樣。(笑聲)很快地孩子們就能意識到所有計畫都一定會出錯。(笑聲)計畫中的每個步驟不是在邁向成功, 就是失敗計畫中的每個步驟不是在邁向成功, 就是失敗對於這個概念 他們顯得變得比以前自在對於這個概念 他們顯得變得比以前自在。我們從塗鴨和畫草稿著手。有時候我們會有一個真正的計畫。有時候我們一開始便動手做。建造是這個體驗的核心。動手做、全程投入、不遺餘力解決手上的問題。羅賓和我扮演輔導員的角色推動整個計畫的概念往完工這個方向邁進。成功就是實幹。即使失敗，我們也會稱讚，也會幫助分析失敗的原因。而疑難就有如完成了的砌圖阻礙都一個個地消失了。 當遇到特別複雜或棘手的問題時一個很有趣的行為就會浮現, 那就是裝飾。(笑聲)裝飾那些沒有還未完成的計畫就像是一種概念上的籌劃。從這些插曲中他們可以獲得一些很深的領悟以及一些神奇的新方法能夠解決令孩子們感到煩惱的難題。 所有的材料都可以被使用即使是那些不起眼和令人厭惡的膠袋也可以變成一座橋而且它比任何人想像中的都要牢固。就連孩子們也被他們自己所建造的作品所震驚。就連孩子們也被他們自己所建造的作品所震驚。 影片: 3,2,1, 出發! Gever Tulley: 這雲霄飛車是由一群七歲的孩子建造的。 影片: 耶!(鼓掌) Gever Tulley: 很高興可以跟大家分享這些事情, 謝謝各位。(鼓掌)
