Talk	en	zh-tw
glenn_greenwald_why_privacy_matters	"There is an entire genre of YouTube videos devoted to an experience which I am certain that everyone in this room has had. It entails an individual who, thinking they're alone, engages in some expressive behavior — wild singing, gyrating dancing, some mild sexual activity — only to discover that, in fact, they are not alone, that there is a person watching and lurking, the discovery of which causes them to immediately cease what they were doing in horror. The sense of shame and humiliation in their face is palpable. It's the sense of, ""This is something I'm willing to do only if no one else is watching."" This is the crux of the work on which I have been singularly focused for the last 16 months, the question of why privacy matters, a question that has arisen in the context of a global debate, enabled by the revelations of Edward Snowden that the United States and its partners, unbeknownst to the entire world, has converted the Internet, once heralded as an unprecedented tool of liberation and democratization, into an unprecedented zone of mass, indiscriminate surveillance. There is a very common sentiment that arises in this debate, even among people who are uncomfortable with mass surveillance, which says that there is no real harm that comes from this large-scale invasion because only people who are engaged in bad acts have a reason to want to hide and to care about their privacy. This worldview is implicitly grounded in the proposition that there are two kinds of people in the world, good people and bad people. Bad people are those who plot terrorist attacks or who engage in violent criminality and therefore have reasons to want to hide what they're doing, have reasons to care about their privacy. But by contrast, good people are people who go to work, come home, raise their children, watch television. They use the Internet not to plot bombing attacks but to read the news or exchange recipes or to plan their kids' Little League games, and those people are doing nothing wrong and therefore have nothing to hide and no reason to fear the government monitoring them. The people who are actually saying that are engaged in a very extreme act of self-deprecation. What they're really saying is, ""I have agreed to make myself such a harmless and unthreatening and uninteresting person that I actually don't fear having the government know what it is that I'm doing."" This mindset has found what I think is its purest expression in a 2009 interview with the longtime CEO of Google, Eric Schmidt, who, when asked about all the different ways his company is causing invasions of privacy for hundreds of millions of people around the world, said this: He said, ""If you're doing something that you don't want other people to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in the first place."" Now, there's all kinds of things to say about that mentality, the first of which is that the people who say that, who say that privacy isn't really important, they don't actually believe it, and the way you know that they don't actually believe it is that while they say with their words that privacy doesn't matter, with their actions, they take all kinds of steps to safeguard their privacy. They put passwords on their email and their social media accounts, they put locks on their bedroom and bathroom doors, all steps designed to prevent other people from entering what they consider their private realm and knowing what it is that they don't want other people to know. The very same Eric Schmidt, the CEO of Google, ordered his employees at Google to cease speaking with the online Internet magazine CNET after CNET published an article full of personal, private information about Eric Schmidt, which it obtained exclusively through Google searches and using other Google products. (Laughter) This same division can be seen with the CEO of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, who in an infamous interview in 2010 pronounced that privacy is no longer a ""social norm."" Last year, Mark Zuckerberg and his new wife purchased not only their own house but also all four adjacent houses in Palo Alto for a total of 30 million dollars in order to ensure that they enjoyed a zone of privacy that prevented other people from monitoring what they do in their personal lives. Over the last 16 months, as I've debated this issue around the world, every single time somebody has said to me, ""I don't really worry about invasions of privacy because I don't have anything to hide."" I always say the same thing to them. I get out a pen, I write down my email address. I say, ""Here's my email address. What I want you to do when you get home is email me the passwords to all of your email accounts, not just the nice, respectable work one in your name, but all of them, because I want to be able to just troll through what it is you're doing online, read what I want to read and publish whatever I find interesting. After all, if you're not a bad person, if you're doing nothing wrong, you should have nothing to hide."" Not a single person has taken me up on that offer. I check and — (Applause) I check that email account religiously all the time. It's a very desolate place. And there's a reason for that, which is that we as human beings, even those of us who in words disclaim the importance of our own privacy, instinctively understand the profound importance of it. It is true that as human beings, we're social animals, which means we have a need for other people to know what we're doing and saying and thinking, which is why we voluntarily publish information about ourselves online. But equally essential to what it means to be a free and fulfilled human being is to have a place that we can go and be free of the judgmental eyes of other people. There's a reason why we seek that out, and our reason is that all of us — not just terrorists and criminals, all of us — have things to hide. There are all sorts of things that we do and think that we're willing to tell our physician or our lawyer or our psychologist or our spouse or our best friend that we would be mortified for the rest of the world to learn. We make judgments every single day about the kinds of things that we say and think and do that we're willing to have other people know, and the kinds of things that we say and think and do that we don't want anyone else to know about. People can very easily in words claim that they don't value their privacy, but their actions negate the authenticity of that belief. Now, there's a reason why privacy is so craved universally and instinctively. It isn't just a reflexive movement like breathing air or drinking water. The reason is that when we're in a state where we can be monitored, where we can be watched, our behavior changes dramatically. The range of behavioral options that we consider when we think we're being watched severely reduce. This is just a fact of human nature that has been recognized in social science and in literature and in religion and in virtually every field of discipline. There are dozens of psychological studies that prove that when somebody knows that they might be watched, the behavior they engage in is vastly more conformist and compliant. Human shame is a very powerful motivator, as is the desire to avoid it, and that's the reason why people, when they're in a state of being watched, make decisions not that are the byproduct of their own agency but that are about the expectations that others have of them or the mandates of societal orthodoxy. This realization was exploited most powerfully for pragmatic ends by the 18th- century philosopher Jeremy Bentham, who set out to resolve an important problem ushered in by the industrial age, where, for the first time, institutions had become so large and centralized that they were no longer able to monitor and therefore control each one of their individual members, and the solution that he devised was an architectural design originally intended to be implemented in prisons that he called the panopticon, the primary attribute of which was the construction of an enormous tower in the center of the institution where whoever controlled the institution could at any moment watch any of the inmates, although they couldn't watch all of them at all times. And crucial to this design was that the inmates could not actually see into the panopticon, into the tower, and so they never knew if they were being watched or even when. And what made him so excited about this discovery was that that would mean that the prisoners would have to assume that they were being watched at any given moment, which would be the ultimate enforcer for obedience and compliance. The 20th-century French philosopher Michel Foucault realized that that model could be used not just for prisons but for every institution that seeks to control human behavior: schools, hospitals, factories, workplaces. And what he said was that this mindset, this framework discovered by Bentham, was the key means of societal control for modern, Western societies, which no longer need the overt weapons of tyranny — punishing or imprisoning or killing dissidents, or legally compelling loyalty to a particular party — because mass surveillance creates a prison in the mind that is a much more subtle though much more effective means of fostering compliance with social norms or with social orthodoxy, much more effective than brute force could ever be. The most iconic work of literature about surveillance and privacy is the George Orwell novel ""1984,"" which we all learn in school, and therefore it's almost become a cliche. In fact, whenever you bring it up in a debate about surveillance, people instantaneously dismiss it as inapplicable, and what they say is, ""Oh, well in '1984,' there were monitors in people's homes, they were being watched at every given moment, and that has nothing to do with the surveillance state that we face."" That is an actual fundamental misapprehension of the warnings that Orwell issued in ""1984."" The warning that he was issuing was about a surveillance state not that monitored everybody at all times, but where people were aware that they could be monitored at any given moment. Here is how Orwell's narrator, Winston Smith, described the surveillance system that they faced: ""There was, of course, no way of knowing whether you were being watched at any given moment."" He went on to say, ""At any rate, they could plug in your wire whenever they wanted to. You had to live, did live, from habit that became instinct, in the assumption that every sound you made was overheard and except in darkness every movement scrutinized."" The Abrahamic religions similarly posit that there's an invisible, all-knowing authority who, because of its omniscience, always watches whatever you're doing, which means you never have a private moment, the ultimate enforcer for obedience to its dictates. What all of these seemingly disparate works recognize, the conclusion that they all reach, is that a society in which people can be monitored at all times is a society that breeds conformity and obedience and submission, which is why every tyrant, the most overt to the most subtle, craves that system. Conversely, even more importantly, it is a realm of privacy, the ability to go somewhere where we can think and reason and interact and speak without the judgmental eyes of others being cast upon us, in which creativity and exploration and dissent exclusively reside, and that is the reason why, when we allow a society to exist in which we're subject to constant monitoring, we allow the essence of human freedom to be severely crippled. The last point I want to observe about this mindset, the idea that only people who  are doing something wrong have things to hide and therefore reasons to care about privacy, is that it entrenches two very destructive messages, two destructive lessons, the first of which is that the only people who care about privacy, the only people who will seek out privacy, are by definition bad people. This is a conclusion that we should have all kinds of reasons for avoiding, the most important of which is that when you say, ""somebody who is doing bad things,"" you probably mean things like plotting a terrorist attack or engaging in violent criminality, a much narrower conception of what people who wield power mean when they say, ""doing bad things."" For them, ""doing bad things"" typically means doing something that poses meaningful challenges to the exercise of our own power. The other really destructive and, I think, even more insidious lesson that comes from accepting this mindset is there's an implicit bargain that people who accept this mindset have accepted, and that bargain is this: If you're willing to render yourself sufficiently harmless, sufficiently unthreatening to those who wield political power, then and only then can you be free of the dangers of surveillance. It's only those who are dissidents, who challenge power, who have something to worry about. There are all kinds of reasons why we should want to avoid that lesson as well. You may be a person who, right now, doesn't want to engage in that behavior, but at some point in the future you might. Even if you're somebody who decides that you never want to, the fact that there are other people who are willing to and able to resist and be adversarial to those in power — dissidents and journalists and activists and a whole range of others — is something that brings us all collective good that we should want to preserve. Equally critical is that the measure of how free a society is is not how it treats its good, obedient, compliant citizens, but how it treats its dissidents and those who resist orthodoxy. But the most important reason is that a system of mass surveillance suppresses our own freedom in all sorts of ways. It renders off-limits all kinds of behavioral choices without our even knowing that it's happened. The renowned socialist activist Rosa Luxemburg once said, ""He who does not move does not notice his chains."" We can try and render the chains of mass surveillance invisible or undetectable, but the constraints that it imposes on us do not become any less potent. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Glenn, thank you. The case is rather convincing, I have to say, but I want to bring you back to the last 16 months and to Edward Snowden for a few questions, if you don't mind. The first one is personal to you. We have all read about the arrest of your partner, David Miranda in London, and other difficulties, but I assume that in terms of personal engagement and risk, that the pressure on you is not that easy to take on the biggest sovereign  organizations in the world. Tell us a little bit about that. Glenn Greenwald: You know, I think one of the things that happens is that people's courage in this regard gets contagious, and so although I and the other journalists with whom I was working were certainly aware of the risk — the United States continues to be the most powerful country in the world and doesn't appreciate it when you disclose thousands of their secrets on the Internet at will — seeing somebody who is a 29-year-old ordinary person who grew up in a very ordinary environment exercise the degree of principled courage that Edward Snowden risked, knowing that he was going to go to prison for the rest of his life or that his life would unravel, inspired me and inspired other journalists and inspired, I think, people around the world, including future whistleblowers, to realize that they can engage in that kind of behavior as well. BG: I'm curious about your relationship with Ed Snowden, because you have spoken with him a lot, and you certainly continue doing so, but in your book, you never call him Edward, nor Ed, you say ""Snowden."" How come? GG: You know, I'm sure that's something for a team of psychologists to examine. (Laughter) I don't really know. The reason I think that, one of the important objectives that he actually had, one of his, I think, most important tactics, was that he knew that one of the ways to distract attention from the substance of the revelations would be to try and personalize the focus on him, and for that reason, he stayed out of the media. He tried not to ever have his personal life subject to examination, and so I think calling him Snowden is a way of just identifying him as this important historical actor rather than trying to personalize him in a way that might distract attention from the substance. Moderator: So his revelations, your analysis, the work of other journalists, have really developed the debate, and many governments, for example, have reacted, including in Brazil, with projects and programs to reshape a little bit the design of the Internet, etc. There are a lot of things going on in that sense. But I'm wondering, for you personally, what is the endgame? At what point will you think, well, actually, we've succeeded  in moving the dial? GG: Well, I mean, the endgame for me as a journalist is very simple, which is to make sure that every single document that's newsworthy and that ought to be disclosed ends up being disclosed, and that secrets that should never have been kept in the first place end up uncovered. To me, that's the essence of journalism and that's what I'm committed to doing. As somebody who finds mass surveillance odious for all the reasons I just talked about and a lot more, I mean, I look at this as work that will never end until governments around the world are no longer able to subject entire populations to monitoring and surveillance unless they convince some court or some entity that the person they've targeted has actually done something wrong. To me, that's the way that privacy can be rejuvenated. BG: So Snowden is very, as we've seen at TED, is very articulate in presenting and portraying himself as a defender of democratic values and democratic principles. But then, many people really  find it difficult to believe that those are his only motivations. They find it difficult to believe that there was no money involved, that he didn't sell some of those secrets, even to China and to Russia, which are clearly not the best friends of the United States right now. And I'm sure many people in the room are wondering the same question. Do you consider it possible there is that part of Snowden we've not seen yet? GG: No, I consider that absurd and idiotic. (Laughter) If you wanted to, and I know you're just playing devil's advocate, but if you wanted to sell secrets to another country, which he could have done and become extremely rich doing so, the last thing you would  do is take those secrets and give them to journalists and ask journalists to publish them, because it makes those secrets worthless. People who want to enrich themselves do it secretly by selling  secrets to the government, but I think there's one important point worth making, which is, that accusation comes from people in the U.S. government, from people in the media who are loyalists to these various governments, and I think a lot of times when people make accusations like that about other people — ""Oh, he can't really be doing this for principled reasons, he must have some corrupt, nefarious reason"" — they're saying a lot more about themselves than they are the target of their accusations, because — (Applause) — those people, the ones who make that accusation, they themselves never act for any reason other than corrupt reasons, so they assume that everybody else is plagued by the same disease of soullessness as they are, and so that's the assumption. (Applause) BG: Glenn, thank you very much. GG: Thank you very much. BG: Glenn Greenwald. (Applause)"	YouTube 裡有一整類這種影片我敢肯定在場所有人都有和影片裡一樣的經歷它會找來一個人讓他覺得只有他自己在場然後讓他做一些表達自己的行為比如大聲唱歌，誇張地跳舞，或者一些性感動作當這個人發現他並非獨處其實有人在看偷著他時這個發現會使他立刻停止正在做的事情並且非常驚恐他們臉上很明顯的是羞辱和丟臉的表情顯然這些動作是在沒有別人看時才願意做的這正是我在最近16個月內所專心研究的重點：為什麼隱私這麼重要？一個引起世界辯論的話題它由愛德華 斯諾登的揭密而引起他揭露美國和其同盟瞞著整個世界把網路這個曾經預示著民主和自由的前所未有的工具轉變成前所未有的用來肆意監視大眾的空間在這場辯論中有一個普遍的論點甚至包括那些對於廣泛監視感到很不舒服的人認為這種大範圍的侵入並沒有實質的傷害因為只有做壞事的人才有理由想隱藏才會在乎他們的隱私這種世界觀隱含著一個議題這個世界上有兩種人：好人和壞人壞人是那些圖謀恐怖襲擊或者參與暴力犯罪的人所以他們有理由想要隱藏他們做的事情有理由要保護他們的隱私而相反的好人是那些每天去工作回家，帶孩子，看電視的人他們不會用網路來策劃炸彈襲擊而是為了看新聞，交流食譜，或者計劃孩子的少年棒球比賽這些人沒做任何壞事所以沒有什麼好隱藏的也沒有理由害怕政府監視他們說這些話的人其實是在極大的自我貶低他們其實是在說我同意讓我自己成為一個不會傷害他人，沒有威脅性，又無趣的人這樣我就不會害怕政府知道我在做什麼我發現這種心態和 2009 年谷歌 CEO艾瑞克 施密特接受採訪時回答關於他的公司以各種方式侵犯全世界幾億人的隱私的問題時所做出的回應是純然一致的他說，如果你在做的事情是你不希望讓別人知道的那麼或許你從開始就不應該做這件事對於這種理念有各種各樣的說法第一種說法認為那些說隱私並不重要的人並不真正相信隱私不重要怎樣知道他們並不相信呢？在他們說隱私並不重要的同時他們的行為卻是想方設法保衛他們的隱私他們給郵件設上密碼還有社交網絡帳號他們給房門和廁所門上鎖通過各種方法防止他人進入他們自認的私人空間其實他們很清楚他們不想讓別人知道的事情同樣的，谷歌CEO艾瑞克 施密特命令他在谷歌的員工停止一切與網路雜誌 CNET（科技資訊網）的交流因為 CNET 發表了一篇文章透露了大量的艾瑞克 施密特的個人信息這些信息其實是完全通過谷歌搜索和其他谷歌產品獲得的（笑聲）相同的情況也發生在 Facebook 的 CEO馬克 扎克伯格身上他在 2010 年那個聲名狼藉的採訪上斷言隱私已經不再是一個“社會規範”去年，馬克 扎克伯格和他的新任妻子在帕洛阿爾托（美國舊金附近城市）不止購買了他們的房子，並且買了相鄰四個房子總值三千萬美元為了確保他們享有足夠的私人空間防止人們監視他們的私人生活在過去的十六個月，我一直在世界各地遊說這個問題每當有人跟我說”我真的不擔心隱私受到侵犯，因為我沒有什麼需要隱藏的。”我總是對他們回答一樣的話我拿出一支筆，寫下我的郵箱地址我說：“這是我的郵箱，我希望回家之後把你所有郵箱賬號的密碼發給我，不僅僅是你工作上用的那些一本正經的郵箱我要所有的因為我就是想讀遍所有你的網上記錄然後將我認為有趣的內容發表出來畢竟你不是個壞人你沒做什麼壞事你就沒什麼好隱藏的“沒有任何一個人接受我的提議我查過（掌聲）我一直在認真的查看那個郵箱那裡一直很荒涼這是有原因的因為我們作為人類即使一些人嘴上否認隱私的重要性但他們心裡很清楚它深遠的重要性事實上，作為人類，我們是社會性動物這意味著我們需要其他人知道我們在做什麼，說什麼，想什麼這也是為什麼我們自願的在網上發佈自己的信息但是和成為一個自由的、完整的人類同等重要的是我們需要有一個地方完全遠離其他人批判的目光為什麼我們要找到這樣一個地方原因是我們所有人－並非只有那些恐怖分子者和罪犯，而是我們所有人－都有想要隱藏的東西許多我們做的、想的各種各樣的事情我們只願意告訴自己的醫生,或者律師，或者心理醫生，或者配偶，或者好朋友。如果全世界都知道我們會覺得很囧我們每天都會判斷某些我們說的、想的、做的某些事情我們願意讓別人知道還有某些我們說的、想的、做的某些事情我們不願意讓別人知道人們可以很輕易地以言語宣稱他們不在乎他們的隱私但他們的行為卻在否定他們所相信的真實性這有一個原因為什麼人們如此普遍地且本能地渴望隱私這不僅僅是個反射性動作像呼吸和喝水那樣原因是當在我們在一種狀態裡我們可能被監視著，被看著的時候我們的行為會有巨大的改變我們所考量的不同行為的範圍在我們被觀察者的時候會大幅縮小這就是人類的本性的事實已被社會科學、文學、宗教以及幾乎所有學科領域所公認許多心理學研究證明當一個人知道他可能在被看著他的行為會尤其地順從人的羞恥心是一個強大的動力以避免受辱這就是為什麼人們在被看著的情況下所做的決定並非他們自己機體的副產品而是別人對他們的期望或者是社會正統所要求的對於這件現象的認識被十八世紀的實用主義哲學家杰裡米 邊沁為了務實的目的大為利用以解決了工業時期出現的一個很重要的問題就是當組織體系初次大幅擴張和權力的集中以致於人們無法進行監視和控制到他們組織的每一個份子邊沁的解決方案是一個建築學設計本來的目的是用於監獄他稱之為全景監獄其主要特徵是將一個巨大的塔建立在組織機構的中間這樣組織的統治者就可以隨時監視其中的任一個囚犯雖然他不能一直看著所有的人這個設計的關鍵處在於犯人無法看到塔的内部所以他們永遠無法知道自己是否或者什麼時候是在被監視著的這個發現讓邊沁非常興奮因為這意味著囚犯們會假定他們隨時隨地是被監視著的這種假定成為了順從和服從的終極實施者二十世紀法國哲學家米歇爾 福柯意識到這個模型不僅可以用於監獄它可以用於任何控制人類行為的機構學校、醫院、工廠、工作場所而且他說這種思維模式邊沁發明的這種結構是現代西方社會進行社會控制的主要手段讓社會不再需要公然的使用暴政的武器－懲罰，或者投送監獄，或者處死異議者，或者合法地強迫人民對一個政黨的忠誠因為廣泛的監控會在人腦中形成一個監獄這是一個非常微妙的且更加有效的使人服從社會規範或者社會正統的方法這是暴力手段遠不能及的關於監視和隱私，最標誌性的文學表達是喬治 奧威爾的小說《1984》我們在學校都學過，它都快成了陳詞濫調了事實上，在關於監視的討論中不論什麼時候提到本書人們都立即忽略它認為它行不通，他們說：“在《1984》裡人們家裡都是監視器，他們無時無刻不被看著這和我們所面對的國家監控是不一樣的。”這其實是從根本上誤解奧威爾在《1984》裡提出的警告他所發出的警告其實不是關於國家隨時隨地在監視人們而是人們知道他們可能隨時被監視着這是溫斯頓 史密斯， 奧威爾小說的敘述者，所描述的他們面對的監控系統：“當然，你無從知道你何時在被監視著。”他接著說：“但是，他們隨時想要是都可以插上監視你的電線。你必須，也確實地活在一個漸漸變成本能的習慣裡，假定你發出的任何聲音都會被聽到，和除了在黑暗中，你的所有的動作被監視着。”亞伯拉罕教派也有類似的斷定有一個無形的、無所不知的權威因為祂的全知全能總是在看你在做什麼意思就是你從來沒有一刻是私有的這就是讓你對祂絕對服從最終執行者這些看似不同的手段最終的共同的結論是一個人們隨時都在被監視的社會是在培養一致、順從、和屈服這也是為什麼每一個暴君從公然施暴的到暗中控制的都渴望這種制度相反的，而且更重要的是在一個有隱私的空間裡我們可以去某處思考辯論，互動，和發表言論而沒有別人投來的批判的目光只有在此創新、探索和異議可以存在這就是為什麼當我們允許一個我們隨時被監控的社會存在我們就是容許人類自由的本質慘遭蹂躪最後，我對這種心理的一個觀察是這種認為只有做了錯事的人才想隱藏，才關心隱私的思維模式它確立了兩個非常有害的信息兩個破壞性的教導第一個是只有那些關心隱私的人只有那些想得到隱私的人被自然的被定義為壞人這是一個我們應該用各種理由避免的結論其中最重要的是當你說“那個人在做壞事”時你可能是指謀劃恐怖襲擊或參與暴力犯罪之類的事這個概念比行使權力的人所指的“做壞事”要狹窄的多對他們來說，“做壞事”基本上意思是做對自己行使權利造成一定挑戰的事另一個真正有破壞性的而且我認為更加陰險的教導來自於接受這種思維模式這其中暗含一個交易接受這種思維模式的人同時也接受了這個交易這個交易就是：只要你願意讓自己對那些行使政治權利的人不造成傷害或威脅那麼，也只有這樣，你才就能夠遠離開被監視的危險而只有那些唱反調的挑戰權力的人才需要擔心我們同樣有各種各樣的理由要避免這個教導你也許此時此刻不想參與那些行為但未來的某個時候你有可能會就算你是那些已下決心永遠不會的人也會有其他人想要也能夠反抗和敵對那些權力之中的人比如政見不同的人，記者，積極分子，還有其他很多人這是會給我們帶來集體的好處的是我們所想要保護的同樣重要的是衡量一個社會自由程度的標尺不是看這個社會怎樣對待好的、順從它的公民而是看它如何對待不同意見的人以及那些反抗正統的人但是最重要的原因是一個廣泛監視的制度會以各種方式壓制我們的自由設定各種行為選擇的禁地而我們甚至全然沒有意識到著名社會主義積極分子羅莎 盧森堡曾經說過：“如果你不動，你不會發現身上的鎖鏈。”我們可以試著粉飾這些廣泛的監視的鎖鏈為無形的或無法測出的但它對我們施加的限制不會有任何減少非常感謝（掌聲）謝謝（掌聲）謝謝（掌聲）布魯諾 朱薩尼：格倫，非常感謝我必須說你的演講十分有說服力但是我想回到十六個月前關於愛德華 斯諾登，如果你不介意的話我有幾個問題第一個問題對你來說比較私人性的我們都看到了你的同伴大衛米蘭達在倫敦被捕的消息，以及他受到的磨難但是我認為就個人參與和風險來說你身上的壓力也不輕承擔著世界上最大的獨立主權組織給我們介紹一下吧格林沃德：我認為人們對於這件事的勇氣是會傳染的所以即使我以及其他和我一起工作的記者們當然知道事情的危險性美國仍然是世界上最強大的國家而且它不希望你在網上任意泄露他大量的機密看著一個29歲的生長於普通家庭環境的普通人用高度有原則的勇氣承擔著像愛德華 斯諾登所承擔的這樣的風險明知道他的後半生會在監獄中度過或者他的生活會就此結束激勵著我，激勵著其他的記者激勵著，我想，全世界的人包括將來的告密者讓他們意識到他們一樣可與參與進來朱薩尼：我很好奇你和愛德 斯諾登的關係因為你多次與他談話而且你肯定會繼續與他談話但是在你的書裡，你不會叫他“愛德華”或者愛德，你叫他“斯諾登”，為什麼？格林沃德：你知道嗎，我想這是心理學家們要研究的事情（笑聲）我不是很確定。我覺得原因是他的一個很重要的目的我想，其中最重要的一個策略是他知道如果（有人）要轉移對他所揭露的重點的注意力就會試著將注意力集中在他個人身上因此他一直遠離媒體他努力不讓任何他的個人生活受到查問所以我覺得叫他斯諾登是一種視他為一個重要的歷史人物而不是將他個人化從而導致分散對此事件本身的注意力朱薩尼：所以他所揭露的，你的分析，以及其他記者的文章已經發展出一個辯論而且很多政府，比如，已經做出回應包括巴西，提出項目和方案對互聯網的設計做出一點修改，等等這樣說來很多事情都在進行中我很好奇，對你個人來說什麼才是最後的終結？怎麼樣你才會說我們已成功地啟動了轉盤格林沃德：我想終結對於我，一個記者來說，很簡單就是確保每條新聞有報道價值的應該公開的得到公開不應該成為秘密的秘密最終被揭開對我來說這就是記者的本質也是我承諾要做的事情一些人很厭惡政府的監視如同我剛才講到的那些原因，甚至更多我把這看做一份沒有終結的工作直到全世界的政府不能再監視和控制所有的人民除非他們可以說服法院或其他機構他們監視的對象真的做了錯事對我來說，這樣，隱私才能被還原朱薩尼：所以斯諾登，在我們TED的講台上看來，非常明確地表達自己是民主觀念和民主原則的捍衛者但是，很多人不相信這些是他唯一的動機他們不相信這之中沒有錢的摻入他們不相信他沒有把那些機密賣給其他國家甚至包括中國和俄羅斯這兩個顯然不是和美國的很友好的國家而且我相信在坐的很多人都有同樣的疑問你認不認為也許斯諾登的某一面我們誰都沒有見過格林沃德：不，我認為這太愚蠢而且荒唐（笑聲）如果你想我知道你只是在故意唱反調但如果你真的想把機密賣給別的國家而且如果他真的賣了他會變得非常有錢那他不會想要把那些機密拿給記者來發表因為這樣做會讓那些機密變得不值錢想發財的人會悄悄地把機密賣給政府但是有一點值得提的是那些指責來自美國政府來自媒體裡擁護各個政府的人而且我認為很多時候人們指責別人：他這樣做肯定不是出於正當原因他肯定有什麼腐敗或者不法的意圖他們其實更多的是在說他們自己而不是他們指責的對象因為（掌聲）那些做出這些指責的人他們自己只會出於腐敗的原因做一些事情所以他們才會假設所有人和他們一樣都身患沒有靈魂的疾病這就是他們的設想（掌聲）格林沃德：非常感謝朱薩尼：謝謝朱薩尼：格倫 格林沃德（掌聲）
