Talk	en	zh-tw
golan_levin_on_software_as_art	Imagine spending seven years at MIT and research laboratories, only to find out that you're a performance artist. (Laughter) I'm also a software engineer, and I make lots of different kinds of art with the computer. And I think the main thing that I'm interested in is trying to find a way of making the computer into a personal mode of expression. And many of you out there are the heads of Macromedia and Microsoft, and in a way those are my bane: I think there's a great homogenizing force that software imposes on people and limits the way they think about what's possible on the computer. Of course, it's also a great liberating force that makes possible, you know, publishing and so forth, and standards, and so on. But, in a way, the computer makes possible much more than what most people think, and my art has just been about trying to find a personal way of using the computer, and so I end up writing software to do that. Chris has asked me to do a short performance, and so I'm going to take just this time — maybe 10 minutes — to do that, and hopefully at the end have just a moment to show you a couple of my other projects in video form. Thank you. (Applause) We've got about a minute left. I'd just like to show a clip from a most recent project. I did a performance with two singers who specialize in making strange noises with their mouths. And this just came off last September at ARS Electronica; we repeated it in England. And the idea is to visualize their speech and song behind them with a large screen. We used a computer vision tracking system in order to know where they were. And since we know where their heads are, and we have a wireless mic on them that we're processing the sound from, we're able to create visualizations which are linked very tightly to what they're doing with their speech. This will take about 30 seconds or so. He's making a, kind of, cheek-flapping sound. Well, suffice it to say it's not all like that, but that's part of it. Thanks very much. There's always lots more. I'm overtime, so I just wanted to say you can, if you're in New York, you can check out my work at the Whitney Biennial next week, and also at Bitforms Gallery in Chelsea. And with that, I think I should give up the stage, so, thank you so much.	想像花了7年的時間待在MIT (麻省理工學院) 的研究室裡，到後來發現你只是一個表演藝術家...... （笑聲） 同時我也是一位軟體工程師，我利用電腦創造了各種形式的藝術作品。我認為我最主要感興趣的是試著找出一種方法讓電腦進入一種自體表達的模式而且在場大部份都是Macromedia和Microsoft的領導者，在某種程度上，你們是我的剋星，不過我認為這是一個很棒的均質力軟體對人造成的影響、界定他們思考的方式透過各種電腦軟體發展的可能性當然，這也是一種可以實現的自由你知道的，透過發表、出版、規格標準諸如此類...等。但在某種程度上，電腦更能夠實現比我們想的還要做的更多，而我的藝術作品是找出一種能透過個體使用模式的電腦所以，我最後寫出這個軟體程式。 Chris 已經要求我做簡短的表演，所以我大概會利用10分鐘的時間向各位展出，希望到播完後，會有一些時間能讓你們看看我其他作品計畫的影片。 謝謝。 （觀眾掌聲） 我們大概還有一分多鐘。我想向各位播放一些最近作品計畫的片段。我之前和兩位歌手做了一項表演，他們專長是用嘴巴發出特殊古怪的聲音。這是去年九月在奧地利電子藝術節的表演。我們在英國重複那次表演。這個想法是把口說演講的表現視覺化，並且用音樂節奏當作背景，呈現在大型的螢幕上。我們用了電腦視覺追蹤系統，定位他們的位置。我們知道他們頭部的位置之後，同時也在他們身上放了無線麥克風，以取得聲音的來源。我們創造了多種的視覺影像，可以跟他們表演做緊密地結合。大概會花30秒的時間。像是在弄出拍擊臉頰時的聲音。 雖然播放的不夠完整，但是以足夠表達出來。 謝謝。總是有更多的東西。我超過時間了，所以我想說，如果你在紐約的話可以去看看我下禮拜在 Whitney Biennial 展出的作品，同時也可以在切爾西（Chelsea）的Bitforms Gallery 看到。我想我得離開這個舞台了，謝謝大家聆聽。
