Talk	en	zh-tw
gordon_brown	"Can I say how delighted I am to be away from the calm of Westminster and Whitehall? (Laughter) This is Kim, a nine-year-old Vietnam girl, her back ruined by napalm, and she awakened the conscience of the nation of America to begin to end the Vietnam War. This is Birhan, who was the Ethiopian girl who launched Live Aid in the 1980s, 15 minutes away from death when she was rescued, and that picture of her being rescued is one that went round the world. This is Tiananmen Square. A man before a tank became a picture that became a symbol for the whole world of resistance. This next is the Sudanese girl, a few moments from death, a vulture hovering in the background, a picture that went round the world and shocked people into action on poverty. This is Neda, the Iranian girl who was shot while at a demonstration with her father in Iran only a few weeks ago, and she is now the focus, rightly so, of the YouTube generation. And what do all these pictures and events have in common? What they have in common is what we see unlocks what we cannot see. What we see unlocks the invisible ties and bonds of sympathy that bring us together to become a human community. What these pictures demonstrate is that we do feel the pain of others, however distantly. What I think these pictures demonstrate is that we do believe in something bigger than ourselves. What these pictures demonstrate is that there is a moral sense across all religions, across all faiths, across all continents — a moral sense that not only do we share the pain of others, and believe in something bigger than ourselves but we have a duty to act when we see things that are wrong that need righted, see injuries that need to be corrected, see problems that need to be rectified. There is a story about Olof Palme, the Swedish Prime Minister, going to see Ronald Reagan in America in the 1980s. Before he arrived Ronald Reagan said — and he was the Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister — ""Isn’t this man a communist?"" The reply was, ""No, Mr President, he’s an anti-communist."" And Ronald Reagan said, ""I don’t care what kind of communist he is!"" (Laughter) Ronald Reagan asked Olof Palme, the Social Democratic Prime Minister of Sweden, ""Well, what do you believe in? Do you want to abolish the rich?"" He said, ""No, I want to abolish the poor."" Our responsibility is to let everyone have the chance to realize their potential to the full. I believe there is a moral sense and a global ethic that commands attention from people of every religion and every faith, and people of no faith. But I think what's new is that we now have the capacity to communicate instantaneously across frontiers right across the world. We now have the capacity to find common ground with people who we will never meet, but who we will meet through the Internet and through all the modern means of communication; that we now have the capacity to organize and take collective action together to deal with the problem or an injustice that we want to deal with; and I believe that this makes this a unique age in human history, and it is the start of what I would call the creation of a truly global society. Go back 200 years when the slave trade was under pressure from William Wilberforce and all the protesters. They protested across Britain. They won public opinion over a long period of time. But it took 24 years for the campaign to be successful. What could they have done with the pictures that they could have shown if they were able to use the modern means of communication to win people’s hearts and minds? Or if you take Eglantyne Jebb, the woman who created Save the Children 90 years ago. She was so appalled by what was happening in Austria as a result of the First World War and what was happening to children who were part of the defeated families of Austria, that in Britain she wanted to take action, but she had to go house to house, leaflet to leaflet, to get people to attend a rally in the Royal Albert Hall that eventually gave birth to Save the Children, an international organization that is now fully recognized as one of the great institutions in our land and in the world. But what more could she have done if she’d had the modern means of communications available to her to create a sense that the injustice that people saw had to be acted upon immediately? Now look at what’s happened in the last 10 years. In Philippines in 2001, President Estrada — a million people texted each other about the corruption of that regime, eventually brought it down and it was, of course, called the ""coup de text."" (Laughter) Then you have in Zimbabwe the first election under Robert Mugabe a year ago. Because people were able to take mobile phone photographs of what was happening at the polling stations, it was impossible for that Premier to fix that election in the way that he wanted to do. Or take Burma and the monks that were blogging out, a country that nobody knew anything about that was happening, until these blogs told the world that there was a repression, meaning that lives were being lost and people were being persecuted and Aung San Suu Kyi, who is one of the great prisoners of conscience of the world, had to be listened to. Then take Iran itself, and what people are doing today: following what happened to Neda, people who are preventing the security services of Iran finding those people who are blogging out of Iran, any by everybody who is blogging, changing their address to Tehran, Iran, and making it difficult for the security services. Take, therefore, what modern technology is capable of: the power of our moral sense allied to the power of communications and our ability to organize internationally. That, in my view, gives us the first opportunity as a community to fundamentally change the world. Foreign policy can never be the same again. It cannot be run by elites; it’s got to be run by listening to the public opinions of peoples who are blogging, who are communicating with each other around the world. 200 years ago the problem we had to solve was slavery. 150 years ago I suppose the main problem in a country like ours was how young people, children, had the right to education. 100 years ago in most countries in Europe, the pressure was for the right to vote. 50 years ago the pressure was for the right to social security and welfare. In the last 50-60 years we have seen fascism, anti-Semitism, racism, apartheid, discrimination on the basis of sex and gender and sexuality; all these have come under pressure because of the campaigns that have been run by people to change the world. I was with Nelson Mandela a year ago, when he was in London. I was at a concert that he was attending to mark his birthday and for the creation of new resources for his foundation. I was sitting next to Nelson Mandela — I was very privileged to do so — when Amy Winehouse came onto the stage. (Laughter) And Nelson Mandela was quite surprised at the appearance of the singer and I was explaining to him at the time who she was. Amy Winehouse said, ""Nelson Mandela and I have a lot in common. My husband too has spent a long time in prison."" (Laughter) Nelson Mandela then went down to the stage and he summarized the challenge for us all. He said in his lifetime he had climbed a great mountain, the mountain of challenging and then defeating racial oppression and defeating apartheid. He said that there was a greater challenge ahead, the challenge of poverty, of climate change — global challenges that needed global solutions and needed the creation of a truly global society. We are the first generation which is in a position to do this. Combine the power of a global ethic with the power of our ability to communicate and organize globally, with the challenges that we now face, most of which are global in their nature. Climate change cannot be solved in one country, but has got to be solved by the world working together. A financial crisis, just as we have seen, could not be solved by America alone or Europe alone; it needed the world to work together. Take the problems of security and terrorism and, equally, the problem of human rights and development: they cannot be solved by Africa alone; they cannot be solved by America or Europe alone. We cannot solve these problems unless we work together. So the great project of our generation, it seems to me, is to build for the first time, out of a global ethic and our global ability to communicate and organize together, a truly global society, built on that ethic but with institutions that can serve that global society and make for a different future. We have now, and are the first generation with, the power to do this. Take climate change. Is it not absolutely scandalous that we have a situation where we know that there is a climate change problem, where we know also that that will mean we have to give more resources to the poorest countries to deal with that, when we want to create a global carbon market, but there is no global institution that people have been able to agree upon to deal with this problem? One of the things that has got to come out of Copenhagen in the next few months is an agreement that there will be a global environmental institution that is able to deal with the problems of persuading the whole of the world to move along a climate-change agenda. (Applause) One of the reasons why an institution is not in itself enough is that we have got to persuade people around the world to change their behavior as well, so you need that global ethic of fairness and responsibility across the generations. Take the financial crisis. If people in poorer countries can be hit by a crisis that starts in New York or starts in the sub-prime market of the United States of America. If people can find that that sub-prime product has been transferred across nations many, many times until it ends up in banks in Iceland or the rest in Britain, and people's ordinary savings are affected by it, then you cannot rely on a system of national supervision. You need in the long run for stability, for economic growth, for jobs, as well as for financial stability, global economic institutions that make sure that growth to be sustained has to be shared, and are built on the principle that the prosperity of this world is indivisible. So another challenge for our generation is to create global institutions that reflect our ideas of fairness and responsibility, not the ideas that were the basis of the last stage of financial development over these recent years. Then take development and take the partnership we need between our countries and the rest of the world, the poorest part of the world. We do not have the basis of a proper partnership for the future, and yet, out of people’s desire for a global ethic and a global society that can be done. I have just been talking to the President of Sierra Leone. This is a country of six and a half million people, but it has only 80 doctors; it has 200 nurses; it has 120 midwives. You cannot begin to build a healthcare system for six million people with such limited resources. Or take the girl I met when I was in Tanzania, a girl called Miriam. She was 11 years old; her parents had both died from AIDS, her mother and then her father. She was an AIDS orphan being handed across different extended families to be cared for. She herself was suffering from HIV; she was suffering from tuberculosis. I met her in a field, she was ragged, she had no shoes. When you looked in her eyes, any girl at the age of eleven is looking forward to the future, but there was an unreachable sadness in that girl’s eyes and if I could have translated that to the rest of the world for that moment, I believe that all the work that it had done for the global HIV/AIDS fund would be rewarded by people being prepared to make donations. We must then build a proper relationship between the richest and the poorest countries based on our desire that they are able to fend for themselves with the investment that is necessary in their agriculture, so that Africa is not a net importer of food, but an exporter of food. Take the problems of human rights and the problems of security in so many countries around the world. Burma is in chains, Zimbabwe is a human tragedy, in Sudan thousands of people have died unnecessarily for wars that we could prevent. In the Rwanda Children's Museum, there is a photograph of a 10-year-old boy and the Children's Museum is commemorating the lives that were lost in the Rwandan genocide where a million people died. There is a photograph of a boy called David. Beside that photograph there is the information about his life. It said ""David, age 10."" David: ambition to be a doctor. Favorite sport: football. What did he enjoy most? Making people laugh. How did he die? Tortured to death. Last words said to his mother who was also tortured to death: ""Don't worry. The United Nations are coming."" And we never did. And that young boy believed our promises that we would help people in difficulty in Rwanda, and we never did. So we have got to create in this world also institutions for peacekeeping and humanitarian aid, but also for reconstruction and security for some of the conflict-ridden states of the world. So my argument today is basically this. We have the means by which we could create a truly global society. The institutions of this global society can be created by our endeavors. That global ethic can infuse the fairness and responsibility that is necessary for these institutions to work, but we should not lose the chance in this generation, in this decade in particular, with President Obama in America, with other people working with us around the world, to create global institutions for the environment, and for finance, and for security and for development, that make sense of our responsibility to other peoples, our desire to bind the world together, and our need to tackle problems that everybody knows exist. It is said that in Ancient Rome that when Cicero spoke to his audiences, people used to turn to each other and say about Cicero, ""Great speech."" But it is said that in Ancient Greece when Demosthenes spoke to his audiences, people turned to each other and didn’t say ""Great speech."" They said, ""Let's march."" We should be marching towards a global society. Thank you. (Applause)"	我想說能夠遠離西敏寺和白樓的平靜是多麼的高興！ 這是金福，一個九歲的越南女孩，她的背部被凝固汽油彈燒傷，她喚醒了美國政府的良知去開始結束越南戰爭。這是碧嫺，是一個埃賽俄比亞女孩。她於二十世紀八十年代發動「拯救生命」。她於死亡邊緣前十五分鐘被拯救，而那張她正被拯救的照片就是一張傳遍全球的照片。這是天安門廣場。一個人站在坦克前成為了一張照片更成了一個世界上代表抗爭的標誌。下一個是蘇丹女孩，於死亡前的片刻，一隻禿鷹在背景徘徊，一張傳遍世界的照片令人震驚得對貧窮作出行動。這是娜達，一個伊朗女孩於數星期前與父親一同參與在伊朗的示威而中途被射殺。現時她正成了YouTube世代的焦點。 那所有這些圖片和事件有甚麼共同之處？他們有的共同之處是我們看見看不到的被解鎖。我們看見被解鎖的：那無形的同感的連繫和聯結帶領我們一起成為一個人性的社羣。這些圖片展示出我們實在感受到其他人的痛苦，無論他們離我們有多遠。這些圖片展示出我們相信一些事情比我們自己更重要。這些圖片展示出一個横跨所有宗教、所有信念、所有大陸的道德感的存在　﹣一個這樣的道德感我們不僅分享其他人的痛苦，和相信一些事情比自己更重要，還有我們有一個看見不公平有義務作出行動糾正的責任，看見需要醫治的傷害，看見需要矯正的問題。 有關於瑞典首相奧洛夫．帕爾梅的一則故事。在二十世紀八十年代他前往美國與朗奴・列根見面。在他抵達之前，朗奴・列根說　﹣當奧洛夫．帕爾梅還是一個瑞典社會民主工人黨首相﹣「他不是一個共產主義者嗎？」回覆是： 「不是，總統先生，他是反共產主義者。」跟著朗奴・列根說：「我不關心他是那一種共產主義者!」(笑聲)朗奴・列根問奧洛夫．帕爾梅　﹣瑞典社會民主工人黨首相：「那你相信甚麼？ 你要廢除富有？」他說：「不，我要廢除貧窮。」我們的責任是讓每一個人都有機會充分發揮他們的潛力。 我相信有一個道德感和環球性的倫理可以召喚每一個宗教和每一種信念　﹣以至沒有信念的人　﹣的注意。但我認為最新的是我們現在有能力於瞬間跨越邊境横跨世界去溝通。我們現在有能力與我們從不會遇見的人透過互聯網或所有現代溝通工具找尋共同的立場，那我們現在有能力去組織及採取集體行動去應付我們想要處理的問題或不平等待遇，和我相信這造成現時就是人類歷史上一個獨特的時代，併且它會是我所稱的一個創造真實的全球性社會的開始。 二百年前當販賣奴隸受到威廉．威伯福斯和所有抗議者的壓力時，他們於英國各地抗議。他們有一段長時間赢取了民意。但是這個運動用了廿四年才能成功。若他們能利用現代溝通媒體去把他們的相片公開去赢取人心及理智，他們的成就可會更大。 或者以埃格蘭泰恩.  杰布為例，一位於九十年前創造救助兒童會的婦女。她對第一次世界大戰後對於奥地利發生的事及奧地利破碎家庭孩子的遭遇感到驚駭，她要在英國採取行動，但她必須挨家挨户，一張傳單接一張傳單，呼籲民眾出席在皇家愛爾伯特音樂廳的一次集會而結果誕生了救助兒童會，一個國際組織受到各方認可為其中一個在我們的土地和世界上最了不起的機關。若她能利用現有的現代溝通媒體去給予人們一個看到不公平則需要立即行動的觸感，她可做到的或會更多！ 現在看看最近十年所發生的事。2001年在菲律賓，總統埃斯特拉達 ﹣百萬人民互相發出關於政權腐敗的流動電話短訊，最終把政權拉倒，而這次　﹣當然　﹣被稱為「短訊之沮擊」。跟著一年前在津巴布韋羅伯特‧穆加貝政權下的第一次競選。由於人們能利用無線電話拍攝投票站情況的照片，令到那個總理不能做到他想作出的選舉舞弊。又或以緬甸及僧侶寫博客日誌為例，無人會知曉一個國家發生甚麼事直至這些博客告知全世界那裏受到震壓，意味生命在消失，併且人們在受迫害，及昂山素姬　﹣世界上其中一個了不起的正義囚犯　﹣需要受到注意。然後到伊朗，及今天人民所做的，娜達事件以後，人民防止伊朗國家安全部尋找那些由伊朗寫博客的人，把地址改成伊朗德黑蘭，令到國家安全部遇上困難。 因此，利用現代科技擁有的能力：我們道德感的力量與通訊能力結盟和我們國際性的組織能力， 那，以我認為，提供我們第一個機會作為共同社區去根本地改造這個世界。對外政策不可再跟以往一樣。它不可單由中堅份子執行;必須聽取那些於世界上互相聯系寫博客的人的公開意見。二百年前我們必須解決的問題是奴隸制。♪一百五十年前我認為在我們國家的主要問題是如何給予年青人及孩子接受教育的權利；一百年前在多數歐洲國家，壓力是投票的權利；五十年前壓力是得到社會保險和福利的權利。在近五十至六十年我們見證法西斯主義、反猶太主義、種族主義、種族隔離、性別及性取向的歧視;所有這些受到壓力都是因人民運動要改造世界。 一年前我與納爾遜·曼德拉一起在倫敦。當時我正參加一個他出席為他興祝生晨及他設立的機金找到新資源的音樂會。我坐在納爾遜·曼德拉的旁邊 — 我是非常榮幸 —當艾米·懷恩豪斯來到台上，納爾遜·曼德拉對這位歌手的外表表示驚奇，我便在解釋給他聽艾米是誰。艾米·懷恩豪斯說：「納爾遜·曼德拉跟我有很多共同點。我的丈夫也在監獄花了很長時間。」(笑聲)納爾遜·曼德拉便走到台上替我們總結了面對的挑戰。他說在他一生裏他攀登了一座高山，一座挑戰然後擊敗種族壓迫和種族隔離的高山。他說前面還有一個更巨大的挑戰，貧窮的挑戰，氣候變化，一個環球性的挑戰需要全球性解決方案和建立一個真實的全球性社會。 我們正是要做此的第一代，去結合全球性倫理的力量和面對挑戰中全球性溝通和組織的能力。而這些挑戰大多屬全球性。氣候變化不能在單一國家解決而是必須由世界合作共同解決。一次金融危機，由我們所見，不可能單由美國或單由歐洲去解決;它需要這個世界合作共同解決。以國家安全和恐怖主義問題為例又或　﹣同等地　﹣人權和發展的問題：他們不能單由非洲去解決;他們不能單由美國或單由歐洲去解決。除非我們共同合作，否則我們不能解決這些問題。 因此我們的這一代的重大項目　﹣以我認為　﹣是第一次去利用全球性倫理和我們全球性溝通及組織的能力建立一個真實的全球性社會，建立在道德之上而以體系去服務那個全球性社會和創造一個不一樣的未來。我們現在　﹣身為第一代　﹣有能力去做到。以氣候變化為例。 我們現處於一個情況我們知道有一個氣候變化的問題，我們也知道那意味我們必須給予更多資源到窮困國家處理那個問題，當我們要建立一個全球性碳排放市場時，但若沒有一個人們可共同同意如何去處理這個問題的全球性體系，這是否實屬可恥呢？在以後的數個月裏其中一件須於哥本哈根達到的事就是一份同意成立一個有能力的全球環璄體系去處理游說全世界執行一個氣候變化議情的同意書。 （掌聲） 其中一個認為一個體系不足的原因是我們需要游說全世界的人們去改變他們的行為，因此你需要那個横跨世代的環球性公正倫理和責任。以這次金融危機為例。如果窮困國家的人民能受到紐約引發的金融危機或由美國引發的次級按揭市場危機所打擊；如果人們能夠發現次級按揭產品在不同國家被調動了無數次直至到達位於冰島或英國的銀行，另一般市民的存款會受它的影響，那你便不能依靠一個國家的監察系統。長遠來說你需要穏定，為經濟增長、為就業、以及為財政穏定，環球經濟體系去確定有承受力的增長是要共同分享，同時是建立於一個世界繁榮是一個不可分割的原則。 那麼我們這一代另一個挑戰就是建立一個環球體系去表達我們對公正的意念和責任，而並非近年財政發展後期所建基之意念。然後拿這個發展以及我們所需與我們國家與其他各國之間的合作　﹣世界最窮困的一角。我們於將來而言沒有一個正確合作夥伴的根基，但是出於人對一個全球性倫理和一個全球性社會的欲望那卻是可以做到。 我剛與塞拉利昂總統談話。這是一個有六百五十萬人的國家，但只有八十位醫生，二百名護士，一百二十位助產士。你不能夠用這麼有限的資源去建立一個提供六百萬人的醫療體系。 又或者用我於坦桑尼亞遇到的一個女孩為例。她名叫米瑞音。她當時是十一歲，她的父母都因愛滋病而逝世，先是她的母親然後是她的父親。她是一個被送到不同親友照顧的愛滋病孤兒。她自己是一個人類免疫缺陷病患者，她也是一個肺結核病患者。我在一個田野見到她，衣衫襤褸，沒有鞋子。當你望著她的眼睛，任何一個十一歲的女孩都是盼望將來，但是在那個女孩眼中有著不可接觸的悲傷，若我能於那個片刻為其他世界把這個翻譯，我相信全球性人類免疫缺陷／愛滋病基金所做的一切將受到準備捐助的人所奬勵。 我們因此必須於最富強及最貧困的國家之間建立一個正確的關係，基於我們的渴求他們能夠利用在他們農業所需的投資而照顧自己，令到非洲不再是一個純食物進口商，也是個食物出口商。 又以在全世界許多國家的人權問題和國家安全問題為例。緬甸在被囚禁，津巴布韋是一個人類悲劇，在蘇丹有上千群眾在我們可防止的戰爭中徒然地死去。在盧旺達兒童博物館，有一張十歲男孩的照片。兒童博物館正在悼念在盧旺達大屠殺中喪失的百萬人的生命。 有一幅名叫大衛的男孩的照片。在那張照片旁邊有關於他生平的資料。它寫：「大衛，十歲。」大衛：志向是當醫生。最喜愛的運動：足球。 他最響往的是甚麼？使人歡笑。他怎樣死去？被拷打致死。她對同是被拷打致死的母親最後說的話是：「不要擔心。 聯合國正趕來。」但我們並沒有做到。 那個年輕男孩相信我們的誠諾我們會幫助於盧旺達有困難的人，但我們並沒有做到。 因此我們亦必須在這個世界建立維持和平和人道援助的體系，為世界上一些冲突充斥的政體作重建和保安。因此我今天的論說在此。我們有能力去創造一個真實的全球性社會。這個全球性社會的體系可由我們的努力創造出來。那全球性倫理能為那些體系注入運作所需的公平性和責任，但在這一代我們決不可失去機會　﹣尤其是在這個十年　﹣與在美國的奧巴馬總統、與在世界和我們一起合作的人，去為環境創造環球體系，為經濟、為國家安全和為發展，去向其他人表達我們責任的意義，我們的去聯結世界的意欲，和我們去應付每個人都知道存在的問題的需要。 據說在古時羅馬當基凱羅向他的羣眾演說，人們常互相談論基凱羅：「很偉大的演講。」但據說在古希臘當狄摩西尼向他的羣眾演說，人們互相談論並沒有說「很偉大的演講。」他們說： 「我們遊行吧。」我們應該向著一個全球性社會前進。多謝。 （掌聲）
