Talk	en	zh-tw
graham_hill_less_stuff_more_happiness	"What's in the box? Whatever it is must be pretty important, because I've traveled with it, moved it, from apartment to apartment to apartment. (Laughter) (Applause) Sound familiar? Did you know that we Americans have about three times the amount of space we did 50 years ago? Three times. So you'd think, with all this extra space, we'd have plenty of room for all our stuff. Nope. There's a new industry in town, a 22 billion-dollar, 2.2 billion sq. ft. industry: that of personal storage. So we've got triple the space, but we've become such good shoppers that we need even more space. So where does this lead? Lots of credit card debt, huge environmental footprints, and perhaps not coincidentally, our happiness levels flat-lined over the same 50 years. Well I'm here to suggest there's a better way, that less might actually equal more. I bet most of us have experienced at some point the joys of less: college — in your dorm, traveling — in a hotel room, camping — rig up basically nothing, maybe a boat. Whatever it was for you, I bet that, among other things, this gave you a little more freedom, a little more time. So I'm going to suggest that less stuff and less space are going to equal a smaller footprint. It's actually a great way to save you some money. And it's going to give you a little more ease in your life. So I started a project called Life Edited at lifeedited.org to further this conversation and to find some great solutions in this area. First up: crowd-sourcing my 420 sq. ft. apartment in Manhattan with partners Mutopo and Jovoto.com. I wanted it all — home office, sit down dinner for 10, room for guests, and all my kite surfing gear. With over 300 entries from around the world, I got it, my own little jewel box. By buying a space that was 420 sq. ft. instead of 600, immediately I'm saving 200 grand. Smaller space is going to make for smaller utilities — save some more money there, but also a smaller footprint. And because it's really designed around an edited set of possessions — my favorite stuff — and really designed for me, I'm really excited to be there. So how can you live little? Three main approaches. First of all, you have to edit ruthlessly. We've got to clear the arteries of our lives. And that shirt that I hadn't worn in years? It's time for me to let it go. We've got to cut the extraneous out of our lives, and we've got to learn to stem the inflow. We need to think before we buy. Ask ourselves, ""Is that really going to make me happier? Truly?"" By all means, we should buy and own some great stuff. But we want stuff that we're going to love for years, not just stuff. Secondly, our new mantra: small is sexy. We want space efficiency. We want things that are designed for how they're used the vast majority of the time, not that rare event. Why have a six burner stove when you rarely use three? So we want things that nest, we want things that stack, and we want it digitized. You can take paperwork, books, movies, and you can make it disappear — it's magic. Finally, we want multifunctional spaces and housewares — a sink combined with a toilet, a dining table becomes a bed — same space, a little side table stretches out to seat 10. In the winning Life Edited scheme in a render here, we combine a moving wall with transformer furniture to get a lot out of the space. Look at the coffee table — it grows in height and width to seat 10. My office folds away, easily hidden. My bed just pops out of the wall with two fingers. Guests? Move the moving wall, have some fold-down guest beds. And of course, my own movie theater. So I'm not saying that we all need to live in 420 sq. ft. But consider the benefits of an edited life. Go from 3,000 to 2,000, from 1,500 to 1,000. Most of us, maybe all of us, are here pretty happily for a bunch of days with a couple of bags, maybe a small space, a hotel room. So when you go home and you walk through your front door, take a second and ask yourselves, ""Could I do with a little life editing? Would that give me a little more freedom? Maybe a little more time?"" What's in the box? It doesn't really matter. I know I don't need it. What's in yours? Maybe, just maybe, less might equal more. So let's make room for the good stuff. Thank you. (Applause)"	盒子裡有什麼?不管是甚麼東西一定會是超重的,因為不管去哪裡我都帶著走,從一個公寓...到一個..再到另一個。 (笑聲) (掌聲) 似曾相似?你知道嗎?我們美國人...用的空間比起50年前多了三倍!三倍!!所以你想...既然多了這麼多空間,來放東西應該是足足有餘了。才不!有種新興產業出現了,一個占地22億平方英呎，價值220萬元的新興產業:專門提供個人儲存空間。我們的空間是多了三倍,不過我們變的更愛買東西了,反而需要更多空間,這樣下去會變成甚麼樣子?一堆卡債...一堆環境汙染,還有...或許是巧合...我們的幸福指數 50年來也都毫無起色。 我來建議一個更好的作法,少一些說不定就是多一些。相信大家曾經體驗過少的喜悅:大學時的宿舍,旅行中的飯店房間m露營時輕簡無物,或許有條小船不論你經歷...別的不說,這一定讓你份外自由!時間更寬綽。因此要建議你家當少一點, 空間小一點等於少點汙染。更是省錢的妙招!你的生活也會輕鬆愉快一點。 所以我發起「簡約生活」計畫 lifeedited.org來推廣探討這個理念,找出更棒的解決方案。首先: 我在把曼哈頓420平方英尺公寓設計提案交給穆特普與橋瓦特兩家公司做眾包計畫。我心頭很大—一個家庭工作室、10 人的用餐區,客房...所有我的風箏衝浪設備。來自全世界各地有300多件提案,我終於找到這個超完美方案。我買了420平方英呎的空間m而不是600平方英呎!立刻可省下20萬大洋!小空間可以用小一號的設備—省更多,也少點環境問題。因為它圍繞著我的功能需求而設計,是一個專屬於我的設計,我非常期待能搬進去。 那怎麼樣才能過簡約的生活?三個方法!首先一定要毫不留情去蕪存菁。就像清理我們的血管一樣。好幾年沒穿的襯衫?該丟了。除去與生活不相干的事務,學著開始逆向思考。精打細算之後再消費。問問自己,這樣我會比較快樂嗎? 真的嗎?不過當然啦...我們是應該有一些很棒的東西。是讓我們真正愛不釋手的,而不是隨隨便便的東西。 再來, 養成新的口頭禪:小才是性感。要有機能的空間。有設計的東西可以用一輩子,不是用一下下而已。沒有道理要買一個六口爐假如你平常卻連三口都用不到？要用可以相互套疊的,方便堆疊的或是數位化的東西。你可以把文件,書籍, 電影,都化為無形...就像變魔術。 最後, 採用多功能設計的空間及家具—一體成型的便器兼槽桶,兼做床鋪的兩用餐桌—同一個空間,一個小側桌可以拉成為10人餐桌。這裡是個簡約生活的獲獎案例,活動牆和變形家具整合在一起就可以挪出很多空間。你看這個咖啡邊桌—它可以拉開拉寬最後變成10人座。我辦公室可折疊起來,很方便就藏起來。床可輕鬆從牆面拉下只用兩指功!客人睡哪裡呢? 堆開活動牆,後面有幾個摺疊床。當然, 還有我的家庭劇院。 我不是說每個人都只能生活在420平方英呎的空間裏。不過想一想簡約生活的好處。從3000減到2000平方英呎,從1500降為1000平方英呎。我們大部分人或許是所有的人,這幾天都還過的蠻愉快的,簡單帶幾個袋子,或許只是個小空間, 飯店客房,所以這次當你回家踏進大門時,不防問問自己,「怎麼樣可以過簡約的生活呢?這樣可以帶來更多自由自嗎?帶來更多時間?」 盒子裡是甚麼?其實 一點都沒關係我知道我用不著。那你呢?也許, 真的! 也許少一些就是多一些。讓我們一起騰出空間給更美好的東西吧。 謝謝。 (掌聲)
