Talk	en	zh-tw
graham_hawkes_flies_through_the_ocean	"I think the future of this planet depends on humans, not technology, and we already have the knowledge — we’re kind of at the endgame with knowledge. But we’re nowhere near the endgame when it comes to our perception. We still have one foot in the dark ages. And when you listen to some of the presentations here — and the extraordinary range of human capability, our understandings — and then you contrast it with the fact we still call this planet, ""Earth:"" it’s pretty extraordinary — we have one foot in the dark ages. Just quickly: Aristotle, his thing was, ""It’s not flat, stupid, it’s round."" Galileo — he had the Inquisition, so he had to be a little bit more polite — his was, ""It’s not in the middle, you know."" And Hawkes: ""it’s not earth, stupid, it’s ocean."" This is an ocean planet. T.S. Eliot really said it for me — and this should give you goose bumps: ""we shall not cease from exploration and the end of our exploring shall be to return where we started and know the place for the first time."" And the next lines are, ""Through the unknown remembered gate, where the last of earth discovered is that which is the beginning."" So I have one message. It seems to me that we’re all pointed in the wrong direction. For the rocketeers in the audience: I love what you’re doing, I admire the guts, I admire the courage — but your rockets are pointed in the wrong goddamn direction. (Laughter) And it’s all a question of perspective. Let me try and tell you — I don’t mean to insult you, but look, if I — and I’m not doing this for real because it would be an insult, so I’m going to pretend, and it softens the blow — I’m going to tell you what you’re thinking. If I held up a square that was one foot square and the color of earth, and I held up another square that was the root two square — so it’s 1.5 times bigger — and was the color of the oceans; and I said, what is the relative value of these two things? Well, it’s the relative importance. You would say — yeah, yeah, yeah, we all know this; water covers twice the area of the planet than dry land. But it’s a question of perception, and if that’s what you’re thinking, if that’s what you think I mean when I say, ""This is an ocean planet stupidly called 'Earth.'"" If you think that that’s the relative importance, two to one, you’re wrong by a factor of ten. Now, you’re not as thick as two short planks, but you sound like it when you say ""Earth,"" because that demonstration, if I turned around this way — that earth plane would be as thin as paper. It’s a thin film, two-dimensional existence. The ocean representation would have a depth to it. And if you hefted those two things you might find that the relative scale of those is 20 to 1. It turns out that something more than 94 percent of life on earth is aquatic. That means that us terrestrials occupy a minority. The problem we have in believing that is — you just have to give up this notion that this Earth was created for us. Because it’s a problem we have. If this is an ocean planet and we only have a small minority of this planet, it just interferes with a lot of what humanity thinks. Okay. Let me criticize this thing. I’m not talking about James Cameron — although I could, but I won’t. You really do have to go and see his latest film, ""Aliens of the Deep."" It’s incredible. It features two of these deep rovers, and I can criticize them because these sweet things are mine. This, I think, represents one of the most beautiful classic submersibles built. If you look at that sub, you’ll see a sphere. This is an acryclic sphere. It generates all of the buoyancy, all of the payload for the craft, and the batteries are down here hanging underneath, exactly like a balloon. This is the envelope, and this is the gondola, the payload. Also coming up later for criticism are these massive lights. And this one actually carries two great manipulators. It actually is a very good working sub — that’s what it was designed for. The problem with it is — and the reason I will never build another one like it — is that this is a product of two-dimensional thinking. It’s what we humans do when we go in the ocean as engineers; we take all our terrestrial hang-ups, all our constraints — importantly, these two-dimensional constraints that we have, and they’re so constrained we don’t even understand it — and we take them underwater. You notice that Jim Cameron is sitting in a seat. A seat works in a two-dimensional world, where gravity blasts down on that seat, OK? And in a two-dimensional world, we do know about the third dimension but we don’t use it because to go up requires an awful lot of energy against gravity. And then our mothers tell us, ""Careful you don’t fall down"" — because you’ll fall over. Now, go into the real atmosphere of this planet. This planet has an inner atmosphere of water; it’s its inner atmosphere. It has two atmospheres — a lesser, outer gaseous atmosphere, a lighter one. Most of life on earth is in that inner atmosphere. And that life enjoys a three-dimensional existence, which is alien to us. Fish do not sit in seats. (Laughter) They don’t. Their mothers don’t say to little baby fish, ""Careful you don’t fall over."" They don’t fall over. They don’t fall. They live in a three-dimensional world where there is no difference in energy between going this way, that way, that way or that way. It’s truly a three-dimensional space. And we’re only just beginning to grasp it. I don’t know of any other submersible, or even remote, that just takes advantage that this is a three-dimensional space. This is the way we should be going into the oceans. This is a three-dimensional machine. What we need to do is go down into the ocean with the freedom of the animals, and move in this three-dimensional space. OK, this is good stuff. This is man’s first attempt at flying underwater. Right now, I’m just coming down on this gorgeous, big, giant manta ray. She has twice the wingspan that I do. There I’m coming; she sees me. And just notice how she rolls under and turns; she doesn’t sit there and try and blow air into a tank and kind of flow up or sink down — she just rolls. And the craft that I’m in — this hasn’t been shown before. Chris asked us to show stuff that hasn’t been shown before. I wanted you to notice that she actually turned to come back up. There I am; I see her coming back, coming up underneath me. I put reverse thrust and I try and pull gently down. I’m trying to do everything very gently. We spent about three hours together and she’s beginning to trust me. And this ballet is controlled by this lady here. She gets about that close and then she pulls away. So now I try and go after her, but I’m practicing flying. This is the first flying machine. This was the first prototype. This was a fly by wire. It has wings. There’re no silly buoyancy tanks — it’s permanently, positively buoyant. And then by moving through the water it’s able to take that control. Now, look at that; look, it’s — she just blew me away. She just rolled right away from underneath. Really that’s the only real dive I’ve ever made in this machine. It took 10 years to build. But this lady here taught me, hah, taught me so much. We just learned so much in three hours in the water there. I just had to go and build another machine. But look here. Instead of blowing tanks and coming up slowly without thinking about it, it’s a little bit of back pressure, and that sub just comes straight back up out of the water. This is an internal Sony camera. Thank you, Sony. I don’t really look that ugly, but the camera is so close that it’s just distorted. Now, there she goes, right overhead. This is a wide-angle camera. She’s just a few inches off the top of my head. ""Aah, ha, oh, he just crossed over the top of my head about, oh, I don’t know, just so close."" I come back up, not for air. ""This is an incredible encounter with a manta. I’m speechless. We’ve been just feet apart. I’m going back down now."" Okay, can we cut that? Lights back up please. (Applause) Trying to fly and keep up with that animal — it wasn’t the lack of maneuverability that we had. It was the fact she was going so slow. I actually designed that to move faster through the water because I thought that was the thing that we needed to do: to move fast and get range. But after that encounter I really did want to go back with that animal and dance. She wanted to dance. And so what we needed to do was increase the wing area so that we just had more grip, develop higher forces. So the sub that was outside last year — this is the one. You see the larger wing area here. Also, clearly, it was such a powerful thing, we wanted to try and bring other people but we couldn't figure out how to do it. So we opened the world’s first flight school. The rational for the world’s first flight school goes something like: when the coastguards come up to me and say — they used to leave us alone when we were diving these goofy little spherical things, but when we started flying around in underwater jet fighters they got a little nervous — they would come up and say, ""Do you have a license for that?"" And then I’d put my sunglasses on, the beard that would all sprout out, and I would say, ""I don’t need no stinking license."" (Laughter) ""I write these stinking license,"" which I do. So Bob Gelfond's around here — but somebody in the audience here has license number 20. They’re one of the first subsea aviators. So we’ve run two flight schools. Where the hell that goes, I don’t know, but it’s a lot of fun. What comes next in 30 seconds? I can’t tell you. But the patent for underwater flight — Karen and I, we were looking at it, some business partners wanted us to patent it — we weren’t sure about that. We’ve decided we’re just going to let that go. It just seems wrong to try and patent — (Applause) — the freedom for underwater flight. So anybody who wants to copy us and come and join us, go for it. The other thing is that we’ve got much lower costs. We developed some other technology called spider optics, and Craig Ventner asked me to make an announcement here this morning: we’re going to be building a beautiful, little, small version of this — unmanned, super deep — for his boat to go and get back some deep sea DNA stuff. (Applause) Thank you."	我相信這個星球的未來掌握在人類手上，而不是科技，我們都知道這一點。我們以為人類已經掌握了所有的知識，但是我們清楚地知道人類還差得遠了。我們還有一隻腳還留在黑暗裡。當你在這裡聽取其他人的演講，驚歎於人類超凡的潛能與智慧時，你會不會覺得我們稱這個星球為「地球」是一件很諷刺的事？真的很怪。我們還有一隻腳還留在黑暗裡。 簡短來說，亞里斯多德主張：「地球不是平的，笨蛋，是圓的。」伽利略—因為受到宗教法廷的審判，所以他不得不禮貌一點：「地球不在世界的中心，你知道吧？」我說：「地球不是全部都是陸地，笨蛋，是海洋。」這是一個海洋星球。T.S. 艾略特把我想說話說出來了—絕對會讓你起雞皮疙瘩：「人們不應停止探索，當探索到終點的時候，人們應該回到原點，以全新的角度觀看原點。」下一句是：「通過未知記憶的門，最後被發現的那塊土地，就是我們起源的地方。」所以我得出一個結論，我們好像都被誤導了。 如果聽眾席裡有火箭專家的話，我得說我喜愛你們做的事，我崇拜你們的膽識，我崇拜你們的勇氣，但我得說你們的火箭完全開錯方向了。(笑聲)這是觀點的問題。讓我試著解釋一下，我沒有要貶低任何人的意思，但是如果—我不會舉真的例子，因為那樣會讓人以為我真的在貶低某人，所以我就用譬喻的好了，這樣氣氛就不會太緊繃。我先來說說你們是怎麼想的，如果我拿了一個一呎見方的方塊，代表陸地的方塊，然後再拿一個1.5呎見方的方塊，就是前面那一個的1.5倍大，代表海洋的方塊，然後我問你們，這二個之間有什麼關係？這很重要哦，你會說，對..對..對，我早就知道了，海洋涵蓋的範圍比陸地大上二倍。但是這是不同看法的問題，如果你真的這樣想，你真的認同我說的：「這是一個海洋星球，卻被笨蛋稱為地球。」如果你真的覺得正名很重要，你以為海洋有二倍大，那你就錯了，還少乘了十倍。當你指著這個方塊說「陸地」的時候，你以為那有二塊木板這麼厚，但那是角度問題，如果我轉向這邊，陸地就只像一張紙那麼薄。就像一個薄片，只有二維空間。這塊「海洋」方塊則具有深度，如果你舉起這二個方塊，你就會發現二者的關係是20比1。 你會發現世界上有百分之94的物種是海洋生物，也就是說人類其實是少數民族。我們現在的問題是，我們得打從心裡放棄地球是為人類而創造的這種想法，這是有問題的想法。我們所居住的是海洋星球，而人類只是少數民族，這種想法與大多數的人認知不同。 好吧，讓我評論一下這個，我不是要談詹姆斯．柯麥隆，雖然我可以，但是我沒有要談。你們真的得去看看他最近拍的電影—深海異形，真的很棒！裡面描述了二架這種深海潛艇，我有資格評論是因為這個美妙的東西是我做的。這可以說是史上最優美、古典的潛艇之一，你看看，這裡有個球體，不完整的球體，可以產生浮力，而所有的彈藥和電池都掛在下面，就像一個氣球一樣。這是氣囊，這是吊艙，還有這是彈藥。等一下還會講到這個，這些聚光燈。這個潛艇可以容納二個操作人員，那是很好的工作艇，這就是它被設計成這樣的原因。這個潛艇有個問題，也就是我不再做第二艘的原因，這是依照二維空間概念所設計出來的產物。當人類工程師進入海洋，就會產生這種問題。我們把自己在陸地上生活的本領拿出來，也知道我們的限制在哪裡。很重要的是，我們知道自己在陸地上有二維空間的限制，這種想法根深蒂固，以致於我們根本沒有察覺，就把這個限制帶進了海洋。你看到了嗎？詹姆斯．柯麥隆坐在椅子上，在二維空間的世界裡我們需要椅子，因為重力會作用在椅子身上，對嗎？而在二維空間的世界裡，我們知道還有第三維空間，但我們不會用到，因為要往上運動需要額外的能量來對抗重力。然後我們的媽媽會說，要小心，不要掉下去了。 現在，讓我們談談這個星球的大氣壓力。在這個星球上有一種內部的水壓，就像是它內部的大氣壓力。這個星球上有二種壓力，一種壓力較小、外放式的氣體壓力，比較稀薄。但是大部份的生物都活在內部的水壓裡，他們都習慣在三維空間裡生活，對我們來說很稀奇。魚不會坐在椅子上。(笑聲)他們才不會，他們的母親也不會對小魚說：「小心不要掉下去了！」他們不會掉下去，他們就是不會掉下去，他們在三維空間裡生活，對他們來說任何方向的運動都耗費一樣的能量，不管往這、往那、往那或往那。那是三維空間，我們正要開始學習，現在還沒有任何潛艇—甚至用遙控的，可以好好利用海洋的三度空間。 這是我們對待海洋應有的態度，這是一架具有三維空間概念的潛艇。我們要做的就是進到海洋裡，像魚類一樣能在三維空間裡自由地移動。好，好東西來了！這是人類首次嚐試在海洋裡飛翔。現在，我要鑽到這隻巨大、美麗的魟魚下面，她的翅翼有我的二倍大。你看我來了，她在看我。注意看看她翻滾和轉彎的姿勢，她不是坐在那裡把氣打進氣艙，然後往上飄或下沈，她就只是翻滾而已。我所搭乘的潛艇—目前尚未發表，Chris總說要我們展示前所未見的東西。我要你看看她真的轉個彎又回來了，我在那裡，我看到她回來了，回到我下面。我試著回報以相同的信認，然後慢慢往下降，每一個步驟我都慢慢來。我們花了大約三個小時，她才開始信任我。我就像被她所帶領跳起芭蕾舞來了，她一下靠得很近，一下又跑得遠遠的。所以我現在要去追她，但我還在練習飛翔，這可是第一架飛翔潛艇，這是架原型機種。這個機器是有線的、有翅翼，但沒有笨重的氣囊。這個潛艇具有持久的浮力，在水裡可以行動自如。現在，看看這個，她剛才把我推開了，她剛才在我下面翻滾了一圈。這是我在駕駛這艘潛艇以來，第一次感受到真正的潛水樂趣。 我花了十年來建造這艘潛艇，但是這隻魟魚她教我，哈，她教我太多了。我們只花了三個小時在水裡，就學到很多。我得再建另一艘。但看看這裡，沒有氣壓槽，所以會緩慢地上升，有點像是從背後加壓，潛艇就會從背後直立起來離開水面。 這是內建的Sony攝影機，謝謝Sony。我平常看起來不會那麼醜，但因為攝影機架設得太近，所以影像有點扭曲。看她來了，就在我頭上。這是廣角鏡頭，她就在我頭上幾英吋的地方。「啊哈！噢！她剛從我頭上經過，我不知道距離幾吋，真是太近了！」我離開水裡，不是為了換氣。「遇到這隻魟魚真是很棒的經驗，我不知道要說什麼了。我們就離這麼近，我要再下去。」好，影片可以結束了，請給我燈光。(掌聲) 試著在海裡飛翔，然後跟在那隻魚旁邊，這並不是因為我的潛艇機動性不好，而是那隻魚走得很慢。事實上，我設計的潛艇可以在水裡跑得很快，因為我覺得有那個必要：要能快速移動，還要能長程移動。但在那一次遇到魟魚之後，我真想回去和她跳支舞，她想要跳舞。我們要做的就是增加翅翼的範圍，這樣我們才能更好操控，發展出更強大的功能。 去年我們有展示這艘潛艇，就是這一艘。你可以看到翅翼已經加大了，而且可以清楚看到這艘潛艇功能很強，我們想要讓更多人駕駛以便瞭解還要加強什麼。所以我們開設了世界上第一間海洋飛翔學校，剛開始營運的時候，救生員會跑過來說，如果我們要駕駛這種愚蠢的玩意兒去潛水，他們才不想管我們。但是當我們在水裡像噴射機駕駛員一樣，駕駛這個玩意兒的時候，他們開始緊張了。他們跑來說，你們有執照嗎？那時我戴著太陽眼鏡，鬍子也沒刮，然後對他們說，我才不需要什麼臭執照。(笑聲)我才是發執照的人，我真的是。所以Bob Gelfons才在這裡，聽眾裡也有人拿到第二十本執照，他們是第一批潛水飛行員。現在我們有二間海洋飛翔學校了，不管怎樣，我也不知道，但就是很好玩。接下來三十秒要做什麼？我才不告訴你。 說到海洋飛翔的專利，Karen和我正在研究。有些事業上的好朋友要我們申請專利，我們還不確定，我們想順其自然。我覺得申請專利這件事好像不對...(掌聲)我們不是在追求在海裡飛翔的自由嗎？所以如果有任何人想要學我們，或是加入我們，就請自便吧！另一件事是我們的成本較低，我們開發了另一種技術叫做「蜘蛛光學」，Craig Ventner要我今天早上在這裡發佈這個消息。我們正在嚐試將這種潛艇做得更小、更美，不用人駕駛，可以到很深的海域，去為我們蒐集一些深海的DNA回來。(掌聲)謝謝各位。
