Talk	en	zh-tw
greg_stone_saving_the_ocean_one_island_at_a_time	"I guess the story actually has to start maybe back in the the 1960s, when I was seven or eight years old, watching Jacques Cousteau documentaries on the living room floor with my mask and flippers on. Then after every episode, I had to go up to the bathtub and swim around the bathtub and look at the drain, because that's all there was to look at. And by the time I turned 16, I pursued a career in marine science, in exploration and diving, and lived in underwater habitats, like this one off the Florida Keys, for 30 days total. Brian Skerry took this shot. Thanks, Brian. And I've dived in deep-sea submersibles around the world. And this one is the deepest diving submarine in the world, operated by the Japanese government. And Sylvia Earle and I were on an expedition in this submarine 20 years ago in Japan. And on my dive, I went down 18,000 feet, to an area that I thought would be pristine wilderness area on the sea floor. But when I got there, I found lots of plastic garbage and other debris. And it was really a turning point in my life, where I started to realize that I couldn't just go have fun doing science and exploration. I needed to put it into a context. I needed to head towards conservation goals. So I began to work with National Geographic Society and others and led expeditions to Antarctica. I led three diving expeditions to Antarctica. Ten years ago was a seminal trip, where we explored that big iceberg, B-15, the largest iceberg in history, that broke off the Ross Ice Shelf. And we developed techniques to dive inside and under the iceberg, such as heating pads on our kidneys with a battery that we dragged around, so that, as the blood flowed through our kidneys, it would get a little boost of warmth before going back into our bodies. But after three trips to Antarctica, I decided that it might be nicer to work in warmer water. And that same year, 10 years ago, I headed north to the Phoenix Islands. And I'm going to tell you that story here in a moment. But before I do, I just want you to ponder this graph for a moment. You may have seen this in other forms, but the top line is the amount of protected area on land, globally, and it's about 12 percent. And you can see that it kind of hockey sticks up around the 1960s and '70s, and it's on kind of a nice trajectory right now. And that's probably because that's when everybody got aware of the environment and Earth Day and all the stuff that happened in the '60s with the Hippies and everything really did, I think, have an affect on global awareness. But the ocean-protected area is basically flat line until right about now — it appears to be ticking up. And I do believe that we are at the hockey stick point of the protected area in the ocean. I think we would have gotten there a lot earlier if we could see what happens in the ocean like we can see what happens on land. But unfortunately, the ocean is opaque, and we can't see what's going on. And therefore we're way behind on protection. But scuba diving, submersibles and all the work that we're setting about to do here will help rectify that. So where are the Phoenix Islands? They were the world's largest marine-protected area up until last week when the Chagos Archipelago was declared. It's in the mid-Pacific. It's about five days from anywhere. If you want to get to the Phoenix Islands, it's five days from Fiji, it's five days from Hawaii, it's five days from Samoa. It's out in the middle of the Pacific, right around the Equator. I had never heard of the islands 10 years ago, nor the country, Kiribati, that owns them, till two friends of mine who run a liveaboard dive boat in Fiji said, ""Greg, would you lead a scientific expedition up to these islands? They've never been dived."" And I said, ""Yeah. But tell me where they are and the country that owns them."" So that's when I first learned of the Islands and had no idea what I was getting into. But I was in for the adventure. Let me give you a little peek here of the Phoenix Islands-protected area. It's a very deep-water part of our planet. The average depths are about 12,000 ft. There's lots of seamounts in the Phoenix Islands, which are specifically part of the protected area. Seamounts are important for biodiversity. There's actually more mountains in the ocean than there are on land. It's an interesting fact. And the Phoenix Islands is very rich in those seamounts. So it's a deep — think about it in a big three-dimensional space, very deep three-dimensional space with herds of tuna, whales, all kinds of deep sea marine life like we've seen here before. That's the vessel that we took up there for these studies, early on, and that's what the Islands look like — you can see in the background. They're very low to the water, and they're all uninhabited, except one island has about 35 caretakers on it. And they've been uninhabited for most of time because even in the ancient days, these islands were too far away from the bright lights of Fiji and Hawaii and Tahiti for those ancient Polynesian mariners that were traversing the Pacific so widely. But we got up there, and I had the unique and wonderful scientific opportunity and personal opportunity to get to a place that had never been dived and just get to an island and go, ""Okay, where are we going to dive? Let's try there,"" and then falling into the water. Both my personal and my professional life changed. Suddenly, I saw a world that I had never seen before in the ocean — schools of fish that were so dense they dulled the penetration of sunlight from the surface, coral reefs that were continuous and solid and colorful, large fish everywhere, manta rays. It was an ecosystem. Parrotfish spawning — this is about 5,000 longnose parrotfish spawning at the entrance to one of the Phoenix Islands. You can see the fish are balled up and then there's a little cloudy area there where they're exchanging the eggs and sperm for reproduction — events that the ocean is supposed to do, but struggles to do in many places now because of human activity. The Phoenix Islands and all the equatorial parts of our planet are very important for tuna fisheries, especially this yellowfin tuna that you see here. Phoenix Islands is a major tuna location. And sharks — we had sharks on our early dives, up to 150 sharks at once, which is an indication of a very, very healthy, very strong, system. So I thought the scenes of never-ending wilderness would go on forever, but they did finally come to an end. And we explored the surface of the Islands as well — very important bird nesting site, some of the most important bird-nesting sites in the Pacific, in the world. And we finished our trip. And that's the area again. You can see the Islands — there are eight islands — that pop out of the water. The peaks that don't come out of the water are the seamounts. Remember, a seamount turns into an island when it hits the surface. And what's the context of the Phoenix Islands? Where do these exist? Well they exist in the Republic of Kiribati, and Kiribati is located in the Central Pacific in three island groups. In the west we have the Gilbert Islands. In the center we have the Phoenix Islands, which is the subject that I'm talking about. And then over to the east we have the Line Islands. It's the largest atoll nation in the world. And they have about 110,000 people spread out over 33 islands. They control 3.4 million cubic miles of ocean, and that's between one and two percent of all the ocean water on the planet. And when I was first going up there, I barely knew the name of this country 10 years ago, and people would ask me, ""Why are you going to this place called Kiribati?"" And it reminded me of that old joke where the bank robber comes out of the courthouse handcuffed, and the reporter yells, ""Hey, Willy. Why do you rob banks?"" And he says, ""cause that's where all the money is."" And I would tell people, ""Why do I go to Kiribati? Because that's where all the ocean is."" They basically are one nation that controls most of the equatorial waters of the Central Pacific Ocean. They're also a country that is in dire danger. Sea levels are rising, and Kiribati, along with 42 other nations in the world, will be under water within 50 to 100 years due to climate change and the associated sea-level rise from thermal expansion and the melting of freshwater into the ocean. The Islands rise only one to two meters above the surface. Some of the islands have already gone under water. And these nations are faced with a real problem. We as a world are faced with a problem. What do we do with displaced fellow Earthlings who no longer have a home on the planet? The president of the Maldives conducted a mock cabinet meeting underwater recently to highlight the dire straits of these countries. So it's something we need to focus on. But back to the Phoenix Islands, which is the subject of this Talk. After I got back, I said, okay, this is amazing, what we found. I'd like to go back and share it with the government of Kiribati, who are over in Tarawa, the westernmost group. So I started contacting them — because they had actually given me a permit to do this — and I said, ""I want to come up and tell you what we found."" And for some reason they didn't want me to come, or it was hard to find a time and a place, and it took a while, but finally they said, ""Okay, you can come. But if you come, you have to buy lunch for everybody who comes to the seminar."" So I said, ""Okay, I'm happy to buy lunch. Just get whatever anybody wants."" So David Obura, a coral reef biologist, and I went to Tarawa, and we presented for two hours on the amazing findings of the Phoenix Islands. And the country never knew this. They never had any data from this area. They'd never had any information from the Phoenix Islands. After the talk, the Minister of Fisheries walked up to me and he said, ""Greg, do you realize that you are the first scientist who has ever come back and told us what they did?"" He said, ""We often issue these permits to do research in our waters, but usually we get a note two or three years later, or a reprint. But you're the first one who's ever come back and told us what you did. And we really appreciate that. And we're buying you lunch today. And are you free for dinner?"" And I was free for dinner, and I went out to dinner with the Minister of Fisheries in Kiribati. And over the course of dinner, I learned that Kiribati gains most of its revenue — it's a very poor country — but it gains what revenue is has by selling access to foreign nations to take fish out of its waters, because Kiribati does not have the capacity to take the fish itself. And the deal that they strike is the extracting country gives Kiribati five percent of the landed value. So if the United States removes a million dollars' worth of lobsters from a reef, Kiribati gets 50,000 dollars. And, you know, it didn't seem like a very good deal to me. So I asked the Minister over dinner, I said, ""Would you consider a situation where you would still get paid — we do the math and figure out what the value of the resource is — but you leave fish and the sharks and the shrimp in the water?"" He stopped, and he said, ""Yes, we would like to do that to deal with our overfishing problem, and I think we would call it a reverse fishing license."" He coined the term ""reverse fishing license."" So I said, ""Yes, a 'reverse fishing license.'"" So we walked away from this dinner really not knowing where to go at that point. I went back to the States and started looking around to see if I could find examples where reverse fishing licenses had been issued, and it turned out there were none. There were no oceanic deals where countries were compensated for not fishing. It had occurred on land, in rainforests of South America and Africa, where landowners had been paid not to cut the trees down. And Conservation International had struck some of those deals. So I went to Conservation International and brought them in as a partner and went through the process of valuing the fishery resource, deciding how much Kiribati should be compensated, what the range of the fishes were, brought in a whole bunch of other partners — the government of Australia, the government of New Zealand, the World Bank. The Oak Foundation and National Geographic have been big funders of this as well. And we basically founded the park on the idea of an endowment that would pay the equivalent lost fishing license fees to this very poor country to keep the area intact. Halfway through this process, I met the president of Kiribati, President Anote Tong. He's a really important leader, a real visionary, forward-thinking man, and he told me two things when I approached him. He said, ""Greg, there's two things I'd like you to do. One is, remember I'm a politician, so you've got to go out and work with my ministers and convince the people of Kiribati that this is a good idea. Secondly, I'd like you to create principles that will transcend my own presidency. I don't want to do something like this if it's going to go away after I'm voted out of office."" So we had very strong leadership, very good vision and a lot of science, a lot of lawyers involved. Many, many steps were taken to pull this off. And it was primarily because Kiribati realized that this was in their own self-interest to do this. They realized that this was a common cause that they had found with the conservation community. Then in 2002, when this was all going full-swing, a coral-bleaching event happened in the Phoenix Islands. Here's this resource that we're looking to save, and it turns out it's the hottest heating event that we can find on record. The ocean heated up as it does sometimes, and the hot spot formed and stalled right over the Phoenix Islands for six months. It was over 32 degrees Celsius for six months and it basically killed 60 percent of the coral. So suddenly we had this area that we were protecting, but now it appeared to be dead, at least in the coral areas. Of course the deep-sea areas and the open ocean areas were fine, but the coral, which everybody likes to look at, was in trouble. Well, the good news is it's recovered and recovering fast, faster than any reef we've seen. This picture was just taken by Brian Skerry a few months ago when we returned to the Phoenix Islands and discovered that, because it is a protected area and has healthy fish populations that keep the algae grazed down and keep the rest of the reef healthy, the coral is booming, is just booming back. It's almost like if a person has multiple diseases, it's hard to get well, you might die, but if you only have one disease to deal with, you can get better. And that's the story with climate-change heating. It's the only threat, the only influence that the reef had to deal with. There was no fishing, there was no pollution, there was no coastal development, and the reef is on a full-bore recovery. Now I remember that dinner I had with the Minister of Fisheries 10 years ago when we first brought this up and I got quite animated during the dinner and said, ""Well, I think that the conservation community might embrace this idea, Minister."" He paused and put his hands together and said, ""Yes, Greg, but the devil will be in the details,"" he said. And it certainly was. The last 10 years have been detail after detail ranging from creating legislation to multiple research expeditions to communication plans, as I said, teams of lawyers, MOUs, creating the Phoenix Islands Trust Board. And we are now in the process of raising the full endowment. Kiribati has frozen extracting activities at its current state while we raise the endowment. We just had our first PIPA Trust Board meeting three weeks ago. So it's a fully functional up-and-running entity that negotiates the reverse fishing license with the country. And the PIPA Trust Board holds that license and pays the country for this. So it's a very solid, very well thought-out, very well grounded system, and it was a bottom-up system, and that was very important with this work, from the bottom up to secure this. So the conditions for success here are listed. You can read them yourselves. But I would say the most important one in my mind was working within the market forces of the situation. And that insured that we could move this forward and it would have both the self-interest of Kiribati as well as the self-interest of the world. And I'll leave you with one final slide, that is: how do we scale this up? How do we realize Sylvia's dream? Where eventually do we take this? Here's the Pacific with large MPAs and large conservation zones on it. And as you can see, we have a patchwork across this ocean. I've just described to you the one story behind that rectangular area in the middle, the Phoenix Islands, but every other green patch on that has its own story. And what we need to do now is look at the whole Pacific Ocean in its entirety and make a network of MPAs across the Pacific so that we have our world's largest ocean protected and self-sustaining over time. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我想這件事得追溯回1960年代，那時我才七、八歲，我常坐在客廳地板上，戴著我的蛙鏡和蛙鞋，看著傑克．庫斯托(著名深海探險家)的記錄片，等節目一結束，我就會跑到浴缸，在裡頭游泳，盯著排水孔看，因為那是那裡唯一的東西。到我十六歲時，我朝海洋科學方面發展，進行探索與潛水，我會待在潛水艇裡，像是這艘在佛羅里達外海的潛艇，有時會待上一個月。布萊恩．史凱瑞幫我拍了這張照片，謝謝你，布萊恩。我搭乘深海潛水艇潛入世界各地的水域，這艘潛水艇則是世界上能潛入最深海域的潛艇，為日本政府所有。 我和席薇亞．厄爾(海洋保育運動者)在20年前一同前往日本，在這艘潛水艇上考察。那次我們潛入海底5,400公尺深，到達一個我原以為會是純淨自然的海底區域。但我到那兒之後，我發現許多塑膠垃圾和廢棄物，那是我人生中的一個轉折點，那時我才明白，我不可能以玩樂的心情來研究科學和探索，我必須要更有深度，我要朝保育這個目標前進。所以我開始和國家地理協會及其他人一起合作，帶領一支考察隊伍去南極洲。我總共帶領過三支潛水考察隊伍去南極洲，10年前還只是先發隊伍，我們探索了那座大冰山B-15，那是有史以來最大的冰山，是從羅斯(Ross)冰棚脫落的。我們還開發了幾項技術，讓我們能潛入冰山裡面和下面，像是我們會在腎臟上綁上一組用電池供電的加熱墊，當我們人體的血液流經腎臟時，就能補充到熱能，再循環到身體其他部位。在結束三趟南極洲之旅後，我覺得在常溫的環境裡工作還是比較好，所以就在那一年，也就是10年前，我就往北來到鳳凰群島， 我等一下會花些時間告訴各位那裡的一些事情，但在此之前，我希望各位能好好想想這張圖，你以前可能看過以不同形式呈現的這張圖，最上面的線是指全球被納入保護的陸地區域大小，這大約是12%。你可以看到這條線有點像曲棍球棒一樣，在1960到1970年代附近開始往上攀升，現在則很像一條完美的拋物線了。這或許是因為人們開始注意到環境議題，設計了地球日，還有60年代嬉皮們所提倡的那些事情，我認為這每一件事都引起了世人關注。但是海洋保護區這條線，卻似乎一直維持不動，直到最近似乎還有上升的趨勢。我相信這條海洋保護區的線會呈現如曲棍球棒的形狀，我認為如果我們能看清海裡發生了什麼事，這條曲線就能早一點呈現曲棍球棒狀，就像陸地保護區那條曲線一樣。不幸的是，海洋並沒有那麼容易看透，我們並不清楚海裡發生了什麼事，因此也就談不上劃分什麼保護區了。但是利用潛水技術或是乘坐潛艇，利用我們目前所有的技術，其實可以幫我們釐清真相。 鳳凰群島在哪裡？那個區域以前是世上最大的海洋保護區，直到上個星期，查戈斯群島才取代鳳凰群島成為最大的保護區。鳳凰群島在中太平洋，不管從哪裡去都要花差不多五天，如果你要到鳳凰群島，從斐濟去要五天，從夏威夷去要五年，從薩摩亞去也要五天。它位在太平洋的中間，就在赤道附近。在十年前，我從未聽過這個地方，更別提吉里巴斯這個擁有鳳凰群島的國家了。後來有二個朋友，他們在斐濟經營潛艇生意，他們說：「克雷格，你要不要帶一支科學考察隊來這個群島？還沒有人來過哩。」我回說：「好啊！告訴我那個群島在哪裡、哪個國家吧！」那是我第一次知道有那個群島，我完全不知道那裡長什麼樣子，我就當我是去探險而已。我先來大概描述一下鳳凰群島保護區的樣貌，那裡的水域很深，平均有3,600公尺深，在鳳凰群島有許多海底山，也屬於保護區的一部分。海底山對於保持生物多樣化是很重要的，事實上，在地球上，海裡的山要比陸地上的山多得多，很有趣吧！鳳凰群島擁有非常多的海底山，所以水域很深—請你們試著以三度空間來想像，在一個很深的三度空間裡，有成群的鮪魚和鯨魚，還有其他各種深海生物，各種我們熟知的生物。 那是我們較早時為研究所搭乘的水上飛機，這就是群島的全貌，你可以看到水裡有些島嶼，都低於水平面之下，全都不能住人，除了一個島以外，上面只有35個管理員。這些島上已經很久沒有人居住，因為即使在古代，這些島還是離斐濟、夏威夷、或大溪地這些有人居住的地方太遠，就算對古代擅於橫越太平洋的波利尼西亞航海人來說也是太遠。我們到了那裡，我覺得來到一個從未經世人探索的地方，對科學研究和我個人來說，都是非常獨特和美好的經驗，所一到島上我就說：「我們該從哪裡開始潛水探索？試試那裡吧！」接著我就跳進水裡，從此改變了我的一生和我的職業生涯。 我突然看到一個我以前從未看過的海洋世界，那裡的魚大量成群地一起游動，遮蔽了從海水表面射入的光線；珊瑚礁是一整片，結構完整且色彩豐富；到處都有大魚游動，主要是魟魚。那是一個完整的生態體系，我看到鸚哥魚在產卵，大約有5千隻長鼻鸚哥魚在鳳凰群島的某個入口處附近產卵。他們全都亂成一片，只看到海水裡有一片混涿的水域，他們就在那裡為延續後代而互相交換卵子與精子。那些活動本來就是海裡常發生的事，但現在卻因為人類的參與，而使這些活動處處受限。鳳凰群島和其他赤道附近的地區一樣，都是鮪魚捕撈業者的聚集地，尤其是你現在所看到的黃鰭鮪魚。鳳凰群島是主要的鮪魚產地，而鯊魚—在我們早期的探索就看過鯊魚了，一下子就看到150隻鯊魚，這表示這裡的生態環境很健康也很完善。 我以為這些美好的景象會一直、永遠地持續下去，但終究還是消失了。我們也探索了各個島嶼，發現那裡是非常重要的鳥類棲息地，世上許多重要的鳥類都築巢在此。這趟探索就到此為止。這是鳳凰群島，你可以看到總共有八個島，只有八個島是露在水面上的，沒露出來的島尖，其實是海底山。如果海底山的山尖露出水面，就稱為島嶼。 那麼鳳凰群島到底是由幾個島組成的？這個群島隸屬於什麼國家？鳳凰群島隸屬於吉里巴斯共和國，而吉里巴斯位於太平洋中間，由三個群島組成。西邊是吉爾勃特群島，中間則是我們這次所談到的鳳凰群島，東邊則是直線群島。吉里巴斯是世上最大的環狀珊瑚礁島國，他們的人口約有11萬人，分佈在33個島嶼上。全國的海域約有340萬立方哩，大約佔全世界海域的1%或2%。我第一次到那裡時，也就是十年前，我其實完全沒聽過那個國家，人們都問我：「你為什麼要去吉里巴斯？」這讓我想起了一個老掉牙的笑話，一個戴著手銙的銀行搶匪從法院走出來，記者對他叫道：「嘿！威利！你為什麼要搶銀行？」他回說：「因為那裡的錢最多啊！」所以我回覆道：「我為什麼要去吉里巴斯？因為那裡的海洋最多啊！」吉里巴斯其實是在中太平洋地區掌控最多赤道附近海域的國家， 他們同時也面臨著迫切的危機，因為海平面不斷上升，而吉里巴斯和世上其他42個國家一樣，在未來的50到100年之內，會因為氣候變遷而沈入海底。因為溫室效應會使冰山熔化，而使海平面上升，現在的島嶼也不過高於海平面1到2公尺而已，有些島嶼已經沈入海底。這些國家所面對的是迫切的真實危機，我們這個世界也面對相同的問題，當這些國家的人民流離失所、無家可歸時，我們該怎麼辦？馬爾地夫總統最近在海底召開了一次具嘲諷意味的內閣會議，以彰顯這些國家所面臨的迫切危機。這是我們應該關注的問題，但讓我們先回到鳳凰群島，這是我今天演講的主題， 在我回到那兒之後，我說：我們看到了很棒的東西，我想和吉里巴斯政府分享我的探索成果，但政府機構在最西邊群島的塔拉瓦島上，所以我與他們聯繫，他們先前核准了我這次的探索，我說：「我想過來告訴你們我的探索成果。」但不知為何，他們似乎不想看到我，或是他們安排不出適當的時間地點，反正就是拖了一陣子，最後他們才說：「好，你可以過來，但你來的時候，要幫我們每個參與會議的人準備午餐。」我回說：「好啊！我很樂意請客，看看大家想吃什麼。」我和一位珊瑚礁生物學家大衛．歐布拉一起去塔拉瓦島，我們講解了二個小時，說明我們在鳳凰群島的驚人發現，但他們似乎從來不知道，他們對這片海域一無所知，從來沒有針對鳳凰群島的海域做過任何調查。在我的解說之後，他們的漁業部長走過來找我，他說：「克雷格，你知道嗎？你是第一個願意回來告訴我們探索成果的科學家。」他說：「我們通常都只是核准他們來我們的水域裡進行調查，但我們通常得等個二、三年才收到個隻字片語，或是一份舊版文件。但你是第一個願意與我們分享你的成果的人，我們真的很感激你，今天中餐就讓我來請客好了，晚餐你有空嗎？」 我當然有空，所以就和漁業部長共進晚餐，在享用晚餐時，我發現吉里巴斯的主要經濟來源—吉里巴斯是很窮的國家—他們的主要經濟來源是將附近水域的捕漁權，賣給外國，因為吉里巴斯自己並沒有捕漁的設備，因此他們只向來申請捕漁的國家，收取漁獲金額5%的手續費而已。如果美國捕撈了價值一百萬美金的龍蝦，吉里巴斯就會收到5萬美金。我覺得這種交易並不划算，所以我趁晚餐之便問漁業部長，我說：「你們有沒有想過另一種賺錢的方法？就是去算一下原先就此獲取的收入有多少，看看不捕撈魚類、鯊魚或蝦子，是否還能賺取這樣的收入？」他停了一會兒，說：「我們願意嚐試，希望能藉此改善過度捕撈的問題，就把這稱為禁止捕撈補貼證吧！」他把這個名詞定為「禁止捕撈補貼證」，所以我也附和：「對！禁止捕撈補貼證。」 當晚我們離開之後，卻對「禁止捕撈補貼證」如何執行毫無頭緒。我回到美國，開始調查是否有發行「禁止捕撈補貼證」的先例，但我發現以前並沒有人這麼做過，沒有針對海洋的案例，沒有國家因為不捕撈漁獲而獲得補助，但有國家針對自己的領土這麼做過，就是在非洲及南美的雨林裡，如果有地主自願不砍伐森林的話，就會獲得補助。國際保育組織曾處理過幾個這種交易，於是我找上國際保育組織，讓他們參與這件事，請他們先評估整個漁獲資源有多少，再決定吉里巴斯該獲得多少補助，有那些魚種的捕撈需受限制等；再找一群其他國家來參與補助，像是澳洲政府、紐西蘭政府及世界銀行。橡樹基金會和國家地理協會也都是著名的贊助者，我們秉持資助的理念成立了這個保護區，補貼這個窮苦的小國所損失的漁獲捕撈手續費，以保障該區域不會被過度捕撈。 就在我們進行到中途的時候，我見到了吉里巴斯的總統，也就是湯安諾總統，他是一位重要的政治領袖，也是有遠見、具前瞻性的人，在我們的會面中，他告訴我二件事，他說：「克雷格，我希望你能做二件事，第一，記住我是個政治人物，所以你得去和我的部長們合作，說服我國的人民這樣做是有益的。第二，我希望你能制定一些準則，一些能超越總統任期的準則，我不希望事情做到一半，就因為我沒被選上擔任總統而就停止了。」我們的領導團隊很堅強，具有很好的眼光，也瞭解科學，還有許多律師參與其中。我們積極地推動這件事，最主要還得歸功於吉里巴斯本身的自覺，他們知道這是為了他們本身的利益而做，他們也瞭解這是他們與保育團體間共同的理想與事業。 在2002年，當我們都在全力推動這件事時，鳳凰群島發生了珊瑚白化事件，那是我們最想要保護的資源，但我們發現那是有史以來海水溫度最高的時候。有時候海水溫度會升高，但那次卻在鳳凰群島形成了一個停滯不動的熱區，長達六個月之久。六個月以來，海水的溫度都超過攝氏32度，有60%的珊瑚死亡，突然之間，我們想要保護的區域，卻變成了一片死寂，至少珊瑚礁區域都快死光了。當然，深海區域及一些開放式的海域都沒問題，但是大家所喜愛的珊瑚礁區域卻有大麻煩了。好消息是這個區域復原了，而且復原得很快，比我們以前看過的任何珊瑚礁都快。這張照片是布萊恩．史凱瑞幾個月之前照的，我們又回到了鳳凰群島，我們發現，因為那裡已是一個保護區，有許多健康的魚群，海藻也在此落地生根，連帶地讓當地的珊瑚礁也長得很好，珊瑚又長得茂盛了，就像以前一樣。就像一個生病的人，如果有多種疾病纏身，就很難治癒，可能會死，但如果只感染了一種疾病，那就很有可能治癒。以上是氣候變遷的溫室效應所造成的影響，這是唯一會威脅或影響珊瑚生長的因素，因為我們排除了過度捕撈、污染與海岸開發等各種因素，珊瑚因此得以全速復原。 我想起十年前與吉里巴斯漁業部長共進晚餐的那個夜晚，我們在晚餐中第一次提出這個想法，我則被鼓舞地說出：「我認為保育團體都會欣然接受這個提議，部長！」他停頓了一下，雙手交疊，說：「我同意，克雷格，但魔鬼就藏在細節裡啊！」他說的果然沒錯，過去這十年總有處理不完的細節，從制定法律到多重研究探勘，甚至到溝通計畫等，我們出動了大批律師，簽了一堆備忘錄，最後才終於成立了鳳凰群島信託基金。現在我們則進到了籌資階段，吉里巴斯在籌資階段就已經停止了捕撈作業。我們在三個星期前，剛舉行過鳳凰群島信託基金會的首屆會員大會，我們已經準備好，準備和這個國家一同協商「禁止捕撈補貼證」事宜，也就是由我們的基金會來核發補貼證，補貼因禁止捕撈而產生的損失。這個補貼制度很完善，想得很週全，是一個設計良善的制度。這也是一個由下而上的制度，因為禁止捕撈這件事，完全得靠從下而上的力量才能維持。我們把成功的因素列了出來，你們可以看看，但我認為最重要的因素是要和市場力量一起合作，這樣我們才能確保能推動這個制度，因為這不僅牽涉到吉里巴斯的利益，也牽涉到全世界的利益。 最後，我要放這張投影片，想想看我們該如何推廣這個計畫？我們如何實現席薇亞(海洋保育運動者)的夢想？我們最終想要達到什麼成果？這是我們建立大量海洋保護區、大量保育區後的太平洋，你可以看到，整個太平洋到處都是需要保育的區塊，我剛才所說的只是有關太平洋中間這個三角區域，鳳凰群島的故事，但在這許多綠色區塊背後，還有許多不為人知的故事。我們現在所需要做的，是以太平洋海域整體的觀點出發，把太平洋上的海洋保護區串連起來，這樣，我們就能擁有全世界最大的海洋保護區，並能長久保育。 謝謝各位！
