Talk	en	zh-tw
gregory_petsko_on_the_coming_neurological_epidemic	"Unless we do something to prevent it, over the next 40 years we’re facing an epidemic of neurologic diseases on a global scale. A cheery thought. On this map, every country that’s colored blue has more than 20 percent of its population over the age of 65. This is the world we live in. And this is the world your children will live in. For 12,000 years, the distribution of ages in the human population has looked like a pyramid, with the oldest on top. It’s already flattening out. By 2050, it’s going to be a column and will start to invert. This is why it’s happening. The average lifespan’s more than doubled since 1840, and it’s increasing currently at the rate of about five hours every day. And this is why that’s not entirely a good thing: because over the age of 65, your risk of getting Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s disease will increase exponentially. By 2050, there’ll be about 32 million people in the United States over the age of 80, and unless we do something about it, half of them will have Alzheimer’s disease and three million more will have Parkinson’s disease. Right now, those and other neurologic diseases — for which we have no cure or prevention — cost about a third of a trillion dollars a year. It will be well over a trillion dollars by 2050. Alzheimer’s disease starts when a protein that should be folded up properly misfolds into a kind of demented origami. So one approach we’re taking is to try to design drugs that function like molecular Scotch tape, to hold the protein into its proper shape. That would keep it from forming the tangles that seem to kill large sections of the brain when they do. Interestingly enough, other neurologic diseases which affect very different parts of the brain also show tangles of misfolded protein, which suggests that the approach might be a general one, and might be used to cure many neurologic diseases, not just Alzheimer’s disease. There’s also a fascinating connection to cancer here, because people with neurologic diseases have a very low incidence of most cancers. And this is a connection that most people aren’t pursuing right now, but which we’re fascinated by. Most of the important and all of the creative work in this area is being funded by private philanthropies. And there’s tremendous scope for additional private help here, because the government has dropped the ball on much of this, I’m afraid. In the meantime, while we’re waiting for all these things to happen, here’s what you can do for yourself. If you want to lower your risk of Parkinson’s disease, caffeine is protective to some extent; nobody knows why. Head injuries are bad for you. They lead to Parkinson’s disease. And the Avian Flu is also not a good idea. As far as protecting yourself against Alzheimer’s disease, well, it turns out that fish oil has the effect of reducing your risk for Alzheimer’s disease. You should also keep your blood pressure down, because chronic high blood pressure is the biggest single risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease. It’s also the biggest risk factor for glaucoma, which is just Alzheimer’s disease of the eye. And of course, when it comes to cognitive effects, ""use it or lose it"" applies, so you want to stay mentally stimulated. But hey, you’re listening to me. So you’ve got that covered. And one final thing. Wish people like me luck, okay? Because the clock is ticking for all of us. Thank you."	除非我們有預防的辦法，否則在未來的 40 年後我們將會面對神經性疾病全球化的漫延。你們還真樂觀啊!在這個地圖上，每一個藍色的國家其 65 歲以上的國民超過全國人口數的 20% 。這就是我們居住的世界。而這是你的下一代將會面臨的世界。過去的一萬兩千年來，人類族群年齡的分佈看起來像個金字塔，最老的人在最上層。這個趨勢已經漸趨平緩了。到了 2050 年它將會變成長柱狀， 然後開始反轉變成倒金字塔。原因是從 1840 年到現在，平均壽命變成了原來的兩倍，而且它還在以大約每天五小時的速度持續增加中。為什麼平均壽命增加不全然是好事呢？因為一旦超過 65 歲，你罹患阿茲海默症或帕金森氏症的機率將以指數增加。到了 2050 年，美國約會有 3200 萬超過 80 歲的人，除非我們有因應措施，他們其中一半會罹患阿茲海默症而罹患帕金森氏症的人會比 阿茲海默症患者人數多出三百萬。現今，對於這些和其他神經性疾病 —我們既不能治癒也無法預防 —一年約消耗三千億美元的社會成本。到了 2050 年這個數字將會超過一兆美元。阿茲海默症是因為腦部內的蛋白質沒有正確摺疊形成錯誤的結構而導致癡呆。因此我們嘗試設計一種藥物它的功用如同分子膠帶一般，能夠使蛋白質維持正確的結構。這將會避免這種蛋白質彼此間糾結在一起因為蛋白質糾結似乎會造成一大片腦細胞壞死。有趣的是，其他神經性疾病儘管它們影響的腦部區域非常的不同但是同樣造成錯誤摺疊的蛋白質互相糾結，因此這個藥物設計方法或許是一種通則，可以用來治療多種神經性疾病，而不是只針對阿茲海默症。神經性疾病與癌症間還有個有趣的關聯性因為患有神經性疾病的人罹患癌症的機率非常的低。雖然現在對它們之間關聯性的研究不多，但我們對它非常感興趣。這個領域許多重要又有獨創性的研究都是私人慈善事業所資助的。但是我們還需要更多私人機構的贊助幫忙，因為遺憾的是，來自政府單位的支持非常有限。但在我們等待經費資助的同時，這裡是一些你自己可以做到的事情。如果你想要降低你罹患帕金森氏症的機率，咖啡因有某種程度的保護作用; 原因還未知避免頭部創傷。它們會導致帕金森氏症。避免感染禽流感，我想原因不需要我說明。至於如何避免你罹患阿茲海默症？這個嘛…魚油有預防的功效。可以降低阿茲海默症發生。你同時應該保持正常的血壓，因為慢性高血壓是罹患阿茲海默症最主要的一個因素。同時也是罹患青光眼的主因，青光眼其實就是眼睛的阿茲海默症。當然，談到對認知能力的影響時，「用進廢退」的觀念變得很重要，因此你希望保持思想活躍。但是嘿…你不是正在聽我演講嗎？那麼這部分你就不用擔心了。最後，祝我們這群科學家研究順利吧?因為歲月可是不饒人的。謝謝大家。
