Talk	en	zh-tw
gregory_stock_to_upgrade_is_human	"The future of life, where the unraveling of our biology — and bring up the lights a little bit. I don't have any slides. I'm just going to talk — about where that's likely to carry us. And you know, I saw all the visions of the first couple of sessions. It almost made me feel a little bit guilty about having an uplifting talk about the future. It felt wrong to do that in some way. And yet, I don't really think it is because when it comes down to it, it's this larger trajectory that is really what is going to remain — what people in the future are going to remember about this period. I want to talk to you a little bit about why the visions of Jeremy Rivkins, who would like to ban these sorts of technologies, or of the Bill Joys who would like to relinquish them, are actually — to follow those paths would be such a tragedy for us. I'm focusing on biology, the biological sciences. The reason I'm doing that is because those are going to be the areas that are the most significant to us. The reason for that is really very simple. It's because we're flesh and blood. We're biological creatures. And what we can do with our biology is going to shape our future and that of our children and that of their children — whether we gain control over aging, whether we learn to protect ourselves from Alzheimer's, and heart disease, and cancer. I think that Shakespeare really put it very nicely. And I'm actually going to use his words in the same order that he did. (Laughter) He said, ""And so from hour to hour we ripe and ripe. And then from hour to hour we rot and rot. And thereby hangs a tale."" Life is short, you know. And we need to think about planning a little bit. We're all going to eventually, even in the developed world, going to have to lose everything that we love. When you're beginning to rot a little bit, all of the videos crammed into your head, all of the extensions that extend your various powers, are going to being to seem a little secondary. And you know, I'm getting a little bit gray — so is Ray Kurzweil, so is Eric Drexler. This is where it's really central to our lives. Now I know there's been a whole lot of hype about our power to control biology. You just have to look at the Human Genome Project. It wasn't two years ago that everybody was talking about — we've found the Holy Grail of biology. We're deciphering the code of codes. We're reading the book of life. It's a little bit reminiscent of 1969 when Neil Armstrong walked on the moon, and everybody was about to race out toward the stars. And we've all seen ""2001: A Space Odyssey."" You know it's 2003, and there is no HAL. And there is no odyssey to our own moon, much less the moons of Jupiter. And we're still picking up pieces of the Challenger. So it's not surprising that some people would wonder whether maybe 30 or 40 years from now, we'll look back at this instant in time, and all of the sort of talk about the Human Genome Project, and what all this is going to mean to us — well, it will really mean precious little. And I just want to say that that is absolutely not going to be the case. Because when we talk about our genetics and our biology, and modifying and altering and adjusting these things, we're talking about changing ourselves. And this is very critical stuff. If you have any doubts about how technology affects our lives, you just have to go to any major city. This is not the stomping ground of our Pleistocene ancestors. What's happening is we're taking this technology — it's becoming more precise, more potent — and we're turning it back upon ourselves. Before it's all done we are going to alter ourselves every bit as much as we have changed the world around us. It's going to happen a lot sooner than people imagine. On the way there it's going to completely revolutionize medicine and health care; that's obvious. It's going to change the way we have children. It's going to change the way we manage and alter our emotions. It's going to probably change the human lifespan. It will really make us question what it is to be a human being. The larger context of this is that are two unprecedented revolutions that are going on today. The first of them is the obvious one, the silicon revolution, which you all are very, very familiar with. It's changing our lives in so many ways, and it will continue to do that. What the essence of that is, is that we're taking the sand at our feet, the inert silicon at our feet, and we're breathing a level of complexity into it that rivals that of life itself, and may even surpass it. As an outgrowth of that, as a child of that revolution, is the revolution in biology. The genomics revolution, proteomics, metabolomics, all of these ""omics"" that sound so terrific on grants and on business plans. What we're doing is we are seizing control of our evolutionary future. I mean we're essentially using technology to just jam evolution into fast-forward. It's not at all clear where it's going to take us. But in five to ten years we're going to start see some very profound changes. The most immediate changes that we'll see are things like in medicine. There is going to be a big shift towards preventative medicine as we start to be able to identify all of the risk factors that we have as individuals. But who is going to pay for all this? And how are we going to understand all this complex information? That is going to be the IT challenge of the next generation, is communicating all this information. There's pharmacogenomics, the combination of pharmacology and genetics: tailoring drugs to our individual constitutions that Juan talked about a little bit earlier. That's going to have amazing impacts. And it's going to be used for diet as well, and nutritional supplements and such. But it's going to have a big impact because we're going to have niche drugs. And we aren't going to be able to support the kinds of expenses that we have to create blockbuster drugs today. The approval process is going to fall apart, actually. It's too slow. It's too risk-averse. And it is really not suited for the future that we're moving into. Another thing is that we're just going to have to deal with this knowledge. It's really wonderful when we hear, ""Oh, 99.9 percent of the letters in the code are the same. We're all identical to each other. Isn't it wonderful?"" And look around you and know that what we really care about is that little bit of difference. We look the same to a visitor from another planet, maybe, but not to each other because we compete with each other all time. And we're going to have to come to grips with the fact that there are differences between us as individuals that we will know about, and between subpopulations of humans as well. To deny that that's the case is not a very good start on that. A generation or so away there are going to be even more profound things that are going to happen. That's when we're going to begin to use this knowledge to modify ourselves. Now I don't mean extra gills or something — something we care about, like aging. What if we could unravel aging and understand it — begin to retard the process or even reverse it? It would change absolutely everything. And it's obvious to anyone, that if we can do this, we absolutely will do this, whatever the consequences are. The second is modifying our emotions. I mean Ritalin, Viagra, things of that sort, Prozac. You know, this is just clumsy little baby steps. What if you could take a little concoction of pharmaceuticals that would make you feel really contented, just happy to be you. Are you going to be able to resist that if it doesn't have any overt side effects? Probably not. And if you don't, who are you going to be? Why do you do what you do? We're sort of circumventing evolutionary programs that guide our behavior. It's going to be very challenging to deal with. The third area is reproduction. The idea that we're going to chose our children's genes, as we begin to understand what genes say about who we are. That's the focus of my book ""Redesigning Humans,"" where I talk about the kinds of choices we'll make, and the challenges it's going to present to society. There are three obvious ways of doing this. The first is cloning. It didn't happen. It's a total media circus. It will happen in five to 10 years. And when it does it's not going to be that big a deal. The birth of a delayed identical twin is not going to shake western civilization. But there are more important things that are already occurring: embryo screening. You take a six to eight cell embryo, you tease out one of the cells, you run a genetic test on that cell, and depending on the results of that test you either implant that embryo or you discard it. It's already done to avoid rare diseases today. And pretty soon it's going to be possible to avoid virtually all genetic diseases in that way. As that becomes possible this is going to move from something that is used by those who have infertility problems and are already doing in vitro fertilization, to the wealthy who want to protect their children, to just about everybody else. And in that process that's going to morph from being just for diseases, to being for lesser vulnerabilities, like risk of manic depression or something, to picking personalities, temperaments, traits, these sorts of things. Of course there is going to be genetic engineering. Directly going in — it's a little bit further away, but not that far away — going in and altering the genes in the first cell in an embryo. The way I suspect it will happen is using artificial chromosomes and extra chromosomes, so we go from 46 to 47 or 48. And one that is not heritable because who would want to pass on to their children the archaic enhancement modules that they got 25 years earlier from their parents? It's a joke; of course they wouldn't want to do that. They'll want the new release. Those kinds of loose analogies with (Laughter) computers, and with programming, are actually much deeper than that. They are really going to come to operate in this realm. Now not everything that can be done should be done. And it won't be done. But when something is feasible in thousands of laboratories all over the world, which is going to be the case with these technologies, when there are large numbers of people who see them as beneficial, which is already the case, and when they're almost impossible to police, it's not a question of if this is going to happen, it's when and where and how it's going to happen. Humanity is going to go down this path. And it's going to do so for two reasons. The first is that all these technologies are just a spin-off of mainstream medical research that everybody wants to see happen. It is being funded very very — in a big way. The second is, we're human. That's what we do. We try and use our technology to improve our lives in one way or another. To imagine that we're not going to use these technologies when they become available, is as much a denial of who we are as to imagine that we'll use these technologies and not fret and worry about it a great deal. The lines are going to blur. And they already are between therapy and enhancement, between treatment and prevention, between need and desire. That's really the central one, I believe. People can try and ban these things. They undoubtedly will. They have. But ultimately all this is going to do is just shift development elsewhere. It's going to drive these things from view. It's going to reserve the technology for the wealthy because they are in the best position to circumvent any of these sorts of laws. And it's going to deny us the information that we need to make wise decisions about how to use these technologies. So, sure, we need to debate these things. And I think it's wonderful that we do. But we shouldn't kid ourselves and think that we're going to reach a consensus about these things. That is simply not going to happen. They touch us too deeply. And they depend too much upon history, upon philosophy, upon religion, upon culture, upon politics. Some people are going to see this as an abomination, as the worst thing, as just awful. Other people are going to say, ""This is great. This is the flowering of human endeavor."" The one thing though that is really dangerous about these sorts of technologies, is that it's easy to become seduced by them. And to focus too much on all the high-technology possibilities that exist. And to lose touch with the basic rhythms of our biology and our health. There are too many people that think that high-technology medicine is going to keep them, save them, from overeating, from eating a lot of fast foods, from not getting any exercise. It's not going to happen. In the midst of all this amazing technology, and all these things that are occurring, it's really interesting because there is sort of a counter-revolution that is going on: a resurgence of interest in remedies from the past, in nutraceuticals, in all of these sorts of things that some people, in the pharmaceutical industry particularly, like to brand as non-science. But this whole effort is generated, is driven, by IT as well because that is how we're gathering all this information, and linking it, and integrating it together. There is a lot in this rich biota that is going to serve us well. And that's where about half of our drugs come. So we shouldn't dismiss this because it's an enormous opportunity to use these sorts of results, or these random loose trials from the last thousand years about what has impacts on our health. And to use our advanced technologies to pull out what is beneficial from this sea of noise, basically. In fact this isn't just abstract. I just formed a biotechnology company that is using this sort of an approach to develop therapeutics for Alzheimer's and other diseases of aging, and we're making some real progress. So here we are. It's the beginning of a new millennium. If you look forward, I mean future humans, far before the end of this millennium, in a few hundred years, they are going to look back at this moment. And from the beginning of today's sessions you'd think that they're going to see this as this horrible difficult, painful period that we struggled through. And I don't think that's what's going to happen. They're going to do like everybody does. They are going to forget about all that stuff. And they are actually going to romanticize this moment in time. They are going to think about it as this glorious instant when we laid down the very foundations of their lives, of their society, of their future. You know it's a little bit like a birth. Where there is this bloody, awful mess happens. And then what comes out of it? New life. Actually as was pointed out earlier, we forget about all the struggle there was in getting there. So to me, it's clear that one of the foundations of that future is going to be the reworking of our biology. It's going to come gradually at first. It's going to pick up speed. We're going to make lots of errors. That's the way these things work. To me it's an incredible privilege to be alive now and to be able to witness this thing. It is something that is a unique instant in the history of all of life. It will always be remembered. And what's extraordinary is that we're not just observing this, we are the architects of this. I think that we should be proud of it. What is so difficult and challenging is that we are also the objects of these changes. It's our health, it's our lives, it's our future, it's our children. And that is why they are so very troubling to so many people who would pull back in fear. I think that our choice in the choice of life, is not whether we're going to go down this path. We are, definitely. It's how we hold it in our hearts. It's how we look at it. I think Thucydides really spoke to us very clearly in 430 B.C. He put it nicely. Again, I'll use the words in the same order he did. ""The bravest are surely those who have the clearest vision of what is before them, both glory and danger alike. And yet notwithstanding, they go out and they meet it."" Thank you. (Applause)"	生命的未來，以及生物的奧秘一次次揭開──把燈開亮一點，我不用投影片只是要和大家談談─這些將把我們帶向何方。 我聽了最開始兩部分的演講聽了裡面的那些觀點。讓我有一點罪惡感，因為我今天的這場演講對未來持以樂觀的態度。這樣做感覺不太對。但是我確實認為未來充滿希望，因為煙消雲散的那天只有大方向被記得這才是未來會記住這個時代的地方 我想要說的是，為什麼Jeremy Rivkins提出的禁止這些技術的要求或是Bill Joys放棄這些技術的想法，對我們來說才是一場悲劇。我會把重點放在生物學和生物科學上面。因為這兩個領域對我們來說將最為關鍵。其中原因非常簡單，因為我們都是血肉之軀我們都是生物。我們在生物學上的造化將決定我們自己以及子孫後代的未來──比如能否控制衰老，能否防治老人癡呆症心臟病，以及癌症。 我覺得莎翁有段話說得不錯。照搬一下他老人家的一字一句。（笑聲）他說，“因此時間一點點流逝，我們一點點成熟。時間繼續一點點流逝，我們一點點老去。故事這樣發生了。”人生苦短。所以我們要好好規劃。即便科學非常發達，最終我們仍將失去摯愛的一切。當我們開始老去的時候，所有湧入你腦海的一幕幕，所有外在的能力、權力等等，都變得次要起來。你們可以看到，我變得有點悲觀了，Ray Kurzweil也是，還有Eric Drexler。 這才是我們生命的核心。現在我瞭解到，我們對生物學的控制能力並不像傳言所說的那樣強大。只要看下人類基因工程你就知道了。只不過兩年前，人們就在說我們已經掌握了生物學的關鍵，我們已經破譯了基因密碼，我們正在閱讀生命之書。這有點像1969年阿姆斯壯登錄月球時的情境，每個人都以為我們要奔向外星球了。我們都看過電影《2001太空漫游》可是現在都2003了，電影裡的超智能電腦仍然不見蹤影。我們還不能在月球上漫步，更別說木星的衛星了。我們仍然在尋找挑戰者號的殘骸。所以不奇怪，有的人會懷疑是不是等到三四十年以後，我們回顧當年的時候如今這些各種各樣的演講，有的關於人類基因工程，有的關於人類基因工程對我們的意義，都會顯得微不足道。我想說的是這絕對不可能。因為當我們談及遺傳學與生物學，以及在其中進行修飾、改變、調整的時候，我們談的其實是改變自己。這是非常重要的一點。 如果你還不能確定科技如何影響我們的生活，你只要隨便去哪座大城市看一看。這已完全不同於我們數萬年前的祖先生活的那片土地了。如今，人類利用科技，科技比原先更加精確，也更有威力，我們要把它用在自己身上。下一步，我們要一點一點地改變自己，就像改變周遭世界一樣。這很快就會發生，遠比人們想象的要快。改變人類自己的過程中，醫療保健會徹底改革。這是顯而易見的。生育子女的方式會改變。我們控制和改變自己情緒的方式也會改變。還有人類壽命，也許也會改變。這讓我們不禁要問人類到底是什麼。 大環境就是兩場前所未有的革命正在進行。第一場革命顯而易見，是矽土半導體的電子革命大家都非常之熟悉。它從很多方面改變著我們的生活，而且還會繼續改變我們。說到底就是，我們利用腳邊的砂石和不活躍的矽元素，然後賦予它們一定的復雜性，這和生命本身的復雜性相當，甚至更加復雜。這場革命的衍生物，如同它的下一代，就是生物學革命。 基因革命、蛋白質體、代謝體，所有這些生物科學名詞在撥款補助和商業計劃中都顯得非常漂亮。我們現在想要控制住革命性的未來。我的意思是，實際上我們是用科技向前推動革命。我們到底會走向何方，仍然是個未知數。但是五到十年之內，我們會逐漸看到一些深遠的改變。其中最先改變的是諸如醫療等方面。我們的重心會轉向預防，因為我們開始認識到個體發病的潛在原因。但是誰來為這一切買單呢？我們怎樣才能理解這些復雜的信息呢？這將是下一代的IT挑戰，也就是傳播信息。 藥物學和遺傳學的結合──藥物遺傳學根據人的個體特徵製造藥物，剛剛胡安提到了這點。藥物遺傳學會產生奇妙的改變。還會被用於飲食，營養補充劑等等。但還有一個很大的影響，因為以後不同的人用不同的藥，與現在大規模制藥不可同日而語，成本過高，我們難以支付。藥品批審過程將會改變現在太慢了。太保守了，與我們即將進入的未來實在不相符。 另一點就是我們還要處理這麼一個問題。有的東西聽起來是很棒的，比如“我們的基因有99.9%都是一樣的。所有人都一樣。”聽起來不錯吧？可看看周圍你就會明白，我們真正在意的其實是那微乎其微的不同之處。對外星人來說，我們看起來可能一模一樣，但在這裡，人與人是不同的，因為我們無時無刻不在互相競爭，我們還會了解到個體之間存在差異，亞群之間亦存在差異。否認差異並不是個良好的開端。 大概到我們的下一代，還會發生影響更加深刻的事。到時我們將會開始依照已有的知識來修飾人類的基因。不是說會多長幾個器官之類的，而是要用在我們關心的問題上，比如衰老。倘若我們可以揭開衰老的奧秘──延緩衰老甚至倒轉衰老的過程，會發生什麼呢？所有的一切都會改變，對任何一個人而言，只要能做到，我們一定會這麼做，結果怎樣不重要。 第二是修飾情感。比如利他靈、威而剛，這一類的藥物，還有像百憂解。這只是我們一開始笨拙的步伐。假如你服用一點藥物，就可以感到滿足，感到幸福，而且這種藥沒有明顯的副作用，你會反對嗎？大概不會吧。如果答案是否定的，你將會發生怎樣的改變呢？你為什麼這樣做呢？我們似乎在逃避一些事情，逃避具有改革和指導意義的項目。相當棘手的問題。 第三個是繁殖領域。隨著我們逐漸認清基因怎樣反映出人的特徵，我們將能選擇孩子的基因。這是我在《重新設計人類》這本書裡關注的重點，書裡還談到我們會做怎樣的選擇，以及它將給社會帶來什麼樣的挑戰。有三個方法。第一個是克隆。其實克隆還沒成功，純粹是媒體炒作。五到十年內可以成功，但即便成功了也沒什麼了不起。兩個不同時間出生的完全相同的雙胞胎，不會對西方文明產生太大影響。 反而一些更重要的事情已經發生了：胚胎篩選。取一個含六到八個細胞的胚胎，提取一個細胞進行遺傳測試，根據測試結果決定取捨。目前已用於預防罕見疾病。很快，這種方法可能可以預防所有的遺傳疾病。如果實現這項技術，受益人群不只是那些有生育疾病且已進行體外受精的人群，想保護孩子的富人以及所有人都能受惠於這種技術。它還會帶來一項改變，不只預防疾病，還能增強人的抵抗疾病的能力，比如降低得狂躁抑鬱症的風險，到挑選性格、脾氣、特質這類事情，當然，其中還要涉及基因工程。基因工程直接參與其中——這有點遙遠，但也不是那麼遙遠——利用基因工程改變胚胎中第一個細胞內的基因。我覺得這項技術想要成功，要用到人造染色體以及額外的染色體，所以我們的染色體數量將從46上升到47或48。還會有一條不可遺傳的染色體。畢竟，誰想把25年前從父母那裡遺傳來的已經用不上的基因改善模塊傳給自己的小孩？開個玩笑，人們肯定不想這樣。他們想要的是新的模塊， 這有點類似於（笑聲）電腦與編寫程式而比那還深刻些在這個領域，人們會有所行動。如今，並不是所有能做的事就都應該做有些是不會被實施的但是，當某項技術在全世界成千上萬的實驗室中都可以實現的時候，之前提到的那些技術以後會普及開來，當很多人發現某項技術大有裨益的時候，我們已經看到了這些技術的優點，還有，當某些技術幾乎無法管制的時候，這種技術到底會不會被應用已不是問題，真正緊要的是，它何時、何地以及怎樣開始被應用。 人類將沿此前行，原因有二。其一，所有這些技術，只是主流醫療研究的衍生物，每個人都對它們充滿期待。資金來源亦非常充沛。其二，我們都是人。這出於人的本性。我們努力用技術來改善自己。想像一下，等到這些技術成熟的時候，我們卻不用，這簡直就是對我們本性的否定，按照常理，我們不僅要使用這些技術，而且用不著怎麼擔心它。很多事物之間的界限會變得更加模糊，比如治療和提升之間，治病和預防之間，需求和渴望之間。我相信這才是核心問題。 人們可以試圖去阻止。毫無疑問他們會去阻止，其實已經在阻止。但最終造成的後果只能是讓發展導向別的地方，將這些趕出人們目所能及之處，把技術留給富人，因為富人佔據著有利地位，可以操縱法律。阻止這些技術還會使我們無法得到需要的信息，作出明智的選擇，合理使用這些技術。所以，我們需要就這些進行辯論，我們正在辯論，這點我非常欣賞。但我們不應該欺騙自己，以為我們會達成共識，因為這根本不會發生。這些辯論與我們聯繫得太緊密，與歷史、哲學、宗教、文化、政治都聯繫得太過緊密。有人這樣看問題，認為墮胎是極其錯誤的，罪大惡極。另一些人則說：“這是很好的啊。簡直就是人類取得的成就中的奇葩。” 這類技術暗含著一項極大的危險，就是我們會輕易被它吸引，將目光集中在所有可能的高科技發展。相反卻不去管那些與我們的生物學和健康最息息相關的部分。很多人以為，高科技醫療可以拯救他們，以為暴飲暴食、吃快餐食品、什麼運動都不做，也可以健康。但這是不可能的。 在所有令人稱奇的技術中，所有正在發生的事情中，有一股相反的改革力量，比如古老的醫學重獲青睞，主要集中在營養醫學這一類，但有的人，特別是製藥業界的人認為它是偽科學。但這種傾向的產生和發展受到信息技術的影響，因為我們通過信息技術收集信息、把信息聯繫在一起並加以整合。其實它的其中資源豐富，可以很好地為我們服務，也是我們約一半藥物的來源，所以我們不應該加以拒絕，因為現在正是絕佳的利用這些資源的機會，或者說是千年來無數次不成功的嘗試，尋找影響健康的因素。運用先進的科技從各種不相關的東西中找出對健康有益的因素。 事實上這不僅僅只是抽象概念，我剛剛成立了一家生物科技公司，用類似的方法開發阿爾茨海默症的治療方案，以及其他老年疾病的解決方案。我們已取得一些實質性的進展，所以今天就像你們看到的這樣。我們剛剛走進了一個新千年，展望未來，我是說人類的未來，在這個千年走到中間的時候，也就是幾百年之後，人們會回頭看此時此刻。從今天演講的一開始，你們可能意味，未來的人們眼中，現在是一個可怕的、艱難的、痛苦的時期，我們掙扎度過。我的觀點恰恰相反，他們和別人一樣，什麼都不會記得，實際上，他們會把這一刻描繪得更加浪漫，他們會把這一刻想像成榮耀的一刻，因為我們建立了基礎，在這個之上，才有了他們享有的生活、社會、未來。這就有點像嬰兒出生，剛生出來的時候到處都是血跡，很噁心、很混亂，但隨之而來的是什麼？新的生命。事實上正如之前所說，我們已經忘記了走到今天這一步所經歷的種種磨難。 所以對我而言，這樣的未來需要一個基礎，將是對我們生物學的改造發展，一開始循序漸進，之後慢慢地加快速度。我們會犯很多錯誤，但這就是成功的必經之路。就我自己而言，活在世界上親眼見證這一切，就已經很不容易。這是所有生命的歷史上獨特的一刻。它會被永遠地記住。而且最不同尋常之初就是，我們不僅是在觀察它，我們也參與建構它我覺得我們應當感到自豪。真正困難之處，真正的挑戰在於我們自己是改變的對象，我們的健康、生活、未來、子孫，都要被改變。這也解釋了為什麼這麼多人感到困擾，在恐懼中後退。我認為，關於選擇生命這個問題，並不在於我們是否要沿著這條路走下去。我們一定要走下去。關鍵是我們應當怎樣認識這個問題，怎樣看待它。修昔底德早在公元前430年就說過一句話，道理非常清楚，他的措辭也很恰當。我在這裡想一字一句地複述他的原話。最勇敢的人一定對面前的事物有著最清晰的認識，無論是榮譽還是危險，但不管怎樣，他們都會走出去迎接它的到來。 謝謝大家。(掌聲）
