Talk	en	zh-tw
greg_lynn_on_organic_design	What I thought I would talk about today is the transition from one mode of thinking about nature to another that's tracked by architecture. What's interesting about architects is, we always have tried to justify beauty by looking to nature, and arguably, beautiful architecture has always been looking at a model of nature. So, for roughly 300 years, the hot debate in architecture was whether the number five or the number seven was a better proportion to think about architecture, because the nose was one-fifth of your head, or because your head was one-seventh of your body. And the reason that that was the model of beauty and of nature was because the decimal point had not been invented yet — it wasn't the 16th century — and everybody had to dimension a building in terms of fractions, so a room would be dimensioned as one-fourth of a facade; the structural dais of that might be dimensioned as 10 units, and you would get down to the small elements by fractional subdivision: finer and finer and finer. In the 15th century, the decimal point was invented; architects stopped using fractions, and they had a new model of nature. So, what's going on today is that there's a model of natural form which is calculus-based and which is using digital tools, and that has a lot of implications to the way we think about beauty and form, and it has a lot of implications in the way we think about nature. The best example of this would probably be the Gothic, and the Gothic was invented after the invention of calculus, although the Gothic architects weren't really using calculus to define their forms. But what was important is, the Gothic moment in architecture was the first time that force and motion was thought of in terms of form. So, examples like Christopher Wren's King's Cross: you can see that the structural forces of the vaulting get articulated as lines, so you're really actually seeing the expression of structural force and form. Much later, Robert Maillart's bridges, which optimize structural form with a calculus curvature almost like a parabola. The Hanging Chain models of Antonio Gaudi, the Catalan architect. The end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th century, and how that Hanging Chain model translates into archways and vaulting. So, in all of these examples, structure is the determining force. Frei Otto was starting to use foam bubble diagrams and foam bubble models to generate his Mannheim Concert Hall. Interestingly, in the last 10 years Norman Foster used a similar heat thermal transfer model to generate the roof of the National Gallery, with the structural engineer Chris Williams. In all these examples, there's one ideal form, because these are thought in terms of structure. And as an architect, I've always found these kinds of systems very limiting, because I'm not interested in ideal forms and I'm not interested in optimizing to some perfect moment. So, what I thought I would bring up is another component that needs to be thought of, whenever you think about nature, and that's basically the invention of generic form in genetic evolution. My hero is actually not Darwin; it's a guy named William Bateson, father of Greg Bateson, who was here for a long time in Monterey. And he was what you'd call a teratologist: he looked at all of the monstrosities and mutations to find rules and laws, rather than looking at the norms. So, instead of trying to find the ideal type or the ideal average, he'd always look for the exception. So, in this example, which is an example of what's called Bateson's Rule, he has two kinds of mutations of a human thumb. When I first saw this image, 10 years ago, I actually found it very strange and beautiful at the same time. Beautiful, because it has symmetry. So, what he found is that in all cases of thumb mutations, instead of having a thumb, you would either get another opposable thumb, or you would get four fingers. So, the mutations reverted to symmetry. And Bateson invented the concept of symmetry breaking, which is that wherever you lose information in a system, you revert back to symmetry. So, symmetry wasn't the sign of order and organization — which is what I was always understanding, and as is an architect — symmetry was the absence of information. So, whenever you lost information, you'd move to symmetry; whenever you added information to a system, you would break symmetry. So, this whole idea of natural form shifted at that moment from looking for ideal shapes to looking for a combination of information and generic form. You know, literally after seeing that image, and finding out what Bateson was working with, we started to use these rules for symmetry breaking and branching to start to think about architectural form. To just talk for a minute about the digital mediums that we're using now and how they integrate calculus: the fact that they're calculus-based means that we don't have to think about dimension in terms of ideal units or discreet elements. So, in architecture we deal with big assemblies of components, so there might be up to, say, 50,000 pieces of material in this room you're sitting in right now that all need to get organized. Now, typically you'd think that they would all be the same: like, the chairs you're sitting in would all be the same dimension. You know, I haven't verified this, but it's the norm that every chair would be a slightly different dimension, because you'd want to space them all out for everybody's sight lines. The elements that make up the ceiling grid and the lighting, they're all losing their modular quality, and moving more and more to these infinitesimal dimensions. That's because we're all using calculus tools for manufacturing and for design. Calculus is also a mathematics of curves. So, even a straight line, defined with calculus, is a curve. It's just a curve without inflection. So, a new vocabulary of form is now pervading all design fields: whether it's automobiles, architecture, products, etc., it's really being affected by this digital medium of curvature. The intricacies of scale that come out of that — you know, in the example of the nose to the face, there's a fractional part-to-whole idea. With calculus, the whole idea of subdivision is more complex, because the whole and the parts are one continuous series. It's too early in the morning for a lecture on calculus, so I brought some images to just describe how that works. This is a Korean church that we did in Queens. And in this example, you can see that the components of this stair are repetitive, but they're repetitive without being modular. Each one of the elements in this structure is a unique distance and dimension, and all of the connections are unique angles. Now, the only way we could design that, or possibly construct it, is by using a calculus-based definition of the form. It also is much more dynamic, so that you can see that the same form opens and closes in a very dynamic way as you move across it, because it has this quality of vector in motion built into it. So the same space that appears to be a kind of closed volume, when seen from the other side becomes a kind of open vista. And you also get a sense of visual movement in the space, because every one of the elements is changing in a pattern, so that pattern leads your eye towards the altar. I think that's one of the main changes, also, in architecture: that we're starting to look now not for some ideal form, like a Latin cross for a church, but actually all the traits of a church: so, light that comes from behind from an invisible source, directionality that focuses you towards an altar. It turns out it's not rocket science to design a sacred space. You just need to incorporate a certain number of traits in a very kind of genetic way. So, these are the different perspectives of that interior, which has a very complex set of orientations all in a simple form. In terms of construction and manufacturing, this is a kilometer-long housing block that was built in the '70s in Amsterdam. And here we've broken the 500 apartments up into small neighborhoods, and differentiated those neighborhoods. I won't go into too much description of any of these projects, but what you can see is that the escalators and elevators that circulate people along the face of the building are all held up by 122 structural trusses. Because we're using escalators to move people, all of these trusses are picking up diagonal loads. So, every one of them is a little bit different-shaped as you move down the length of the building. So, working with Bentley and MicroStation, we've written a custom piece of software that networks all of the components together into these chunks of information, so that if we change any element along the length of the building, not only does that change distribute through each one of the trusses, but each one of the trusses then distributes that information down the length of the entire facade of the building. So it's a single calculation for every single component of the building that we're adding onto. So, it's tens of millions of calculations just to design one connection between a piece of structural steel and another piece of structural steel. But what it gives us is a harmonic and synthesized relationship of all these components, one to another. This idea has, kind of, brought me into doing some product design, and it's because design firms that have connections to architects, like, I'm working with Vitra, which is a furniture company, and Alessi, which is a houseware company. They saw this actually solving a problem: this ability to differentiate components but keep them synthetic. So, not to pick on BMW, or to celebrate them, but take BMW as an example. They have to, in 2005, have a distinct identity for all their models of cars. So, the 300 series, or whatever their newest car is, the 100 series that's coming out, has to look like the 700 series, at the other end of their product line, so they need a distinct, coherent identity, which is BMW. At the same time, there's a person paying 30,000 dollars for a 300-series car, and a person paying 70,000 dollars for a 700 series, and that person paying more than double doesn't want their car to look too much like the bottom-of-the-market car. So they have to also discriminate between these products. So, as manufacturing starts to allow more design options, this problem gets exacerbated, of the whole and the parts. Now, as an architect, part-to-whole relationships is all I think about, but in terms of product design it's becoming more and more of an issue for companies. So, the first kind of test product we did was with Alessi, which was for a coffee and tea set. It's an incredibly expensive coffee and tea set; we knew that at the beginning. So, I actually went to some people I knew down south in San Diego, and we used an exploded titanium forming method that's used in the aerospace industry. Basically what we can do, is just cut a graphite mold, put it in an oven, heat it to 1,000 degrees, gently inflate titanium that's soft, and then explode it at the last minute into this form. But what's great about it is, the forms are only a few hundred dollars. The titanium's several thousand dollars, but the forms are very cheap. So, we designed a system here of eight curves that could be swapped, very similar to that housing project I showed you, and we could recombine those together, so that we always had ergonomic shapes that always had the same volume and could always be produced in the same way. That way, each one of these tools we could pay for with a few hundred dollars, and get incredible variation in the components. And this is one of those examples of the sets. So, for me, what was important is that this coffee set — which is just a coffee pot, a teapot, and those are the pots sitting on a tray — that they would have a coherence — so, they would be Greg Lynn Alessi coffee pots — but that everyone who bought one would have a one-of-a-kind object that was unique in some way. To go back to architecture, what's organic about architecture as a field, unlike product design, is this whole issue of holism and of monumentality is really our realm. Like, we have to design things which are coherent as a single object, but also break down into small rooms and have an identity of both the big scale and the small scale. Architects tend to work with signature, so that an architect needs a signature and that signature has to work across the scale of houses up to, say, skyscrapers, and that problem of signatures is a thing we're very good at maintaining and working with; and intricacy, which is the relationship of, say, the shape of a building, its structure, its windows, its color, its pattern. These are real architectural problems. So, my kind of hero for this in the natural world are these tropical frogs. I got interested in them because they're the most extreme example of a surface where the texture and the — let's call it the decoration — I know the frog doesn't think of it as decoration, but that's how it works — are all intricately connected to one another. So a change in the form indicates a change in the color pattern. So, the pattern and the form aren't the same thing, but they really work together and are fused in some way. So, when doing a center for the national parks in Costa Rica, we tried to use that idea of a gradient color and a change in texture as the structure moves across the surface of the building. We also used a continuity of change from a main exhibition hall to a natural history museum, so it's all one continuous change in the massing, but within that massing are very different kinds of spaces and forms. In a housing project in Valencia, Spain, we're doing, the different towers of housing fused together in shared curves so you get a single mass, like a kind of monolith, but it breaks down into individual elements. And you can see that that change in massing also gives all 48 of the apartments a unique shape and size, but always within a, kind of, controlled limit, an envelope of change. I work with a group of other architects. We have a company called United Architects. We were one of the finalists for the World Trade Center site design. And I think this just shows how we were approaching the problem of incredibly large-scale construction. We wanted to make a kind of Gothic cathedral around the footprints of the World Trade Center site. And to do that, we tried to connect up the five towers into a single system. And we looked at, from the 1950s on, there were numerous examples of other architects trying to do the same thing. We really approached it at the level of the typology of the building, where we could build these five separate towers, but they would all join at the 60th floor and make a kind of single monolithic mass. With United Architects, also, we made a proposal for the European Central Bank headquarters that used the same system, but this time in a much more monolithic mass, like a sphere. But again, you can see this, kind of, organic fusion of multiple building elements to make a thing which is whole, but breaks down into smaller parts, but in an incredibly organic way. Finally, I'd like to just show you some of the effects of using digital fabrication. About six years ago, I bought one of these CNC mills, to just replace, kind of, young people cutting their fingers off all the time building models. And I also bought a laser cutter and started to fabricate within my own shop, kind of, large-scale building elements and models, where we could go directly to the tooling. What I found out is that the tooling, if you intervened in the software, actually produced decorative effects. So, for these interiors, like this shop in Stockholm, Sweden, or this installation wall in the Netherlands at the Netherlands Architecture Institute, we could use the texture that the tool would leave to produce a lot of the spatial effects, and we could integrate the texture of the wall with the form of the wall with the material. So, in vacuum-formed plastic, in fiberglass, and then even at the level of structural steel, which you think of as being linear and modular. The steel industry is so far ahead of the design industry that if you take advantage of it you can even start to think of beams and columns all rolled together into a single system which is highly efficient, but also produces decorative effects and formal effects that are very beautiful and organic. Thanks very much.	我想我今天要談的，是建築界對於自然（與自然形式）在看法上的轉變過程。建築師有趣的地方，在於我們經常藉由參考自然作為美的依據，按理說，漂亮的建築也經常以自然為師。 所以，約莫有三百年的時間，建築界最熱門的爭辯是究竟數字5或者數字7才是建築中較佳的比例，因為鼻子是頭部的五分之一長，而頭卻是身體的七分之一長。比例關係之所以會成為美麗與自然的象徵是因為當時尚未發明小數點 —那是16世紀的事情 —於是所有人都必須用比例關係來度量建築物，像一個房間是立面的四分之一寬；如果結構基座是10個單位，你可以用比例分割的方法得到更小的單元；愈切愈細、愈切愈細。 15世紀時，發明了小數點；建築師不再使用比例，他們有了描述大自然的新模型。所以，今天我們所使用的是一種自然形式的模型它是基於微積分運算而且仰賴數位工具，這讓我們對於美麗與形式的看法有了更為豐富的含意，也包括我們思考大自然的方式。其中最好的例子應該是哥德式建築，哥德式建築在微積分發明之後出現。雖然哥德式建築師並不是使用微積分來定義他們的形式。但重要的是，哥德時期的建築是首次用形式來思考力與動態。 以Christopher Wren的國王十字(King's Cross)車站為例：你可以看到拱頂的結構力量以線條方式連接，所以你真的可以看見結構力量和形式的表現。再拿廿世紀初Robert Maillart的橋為例，它的結構形式是透過曲率運算所得的最佳形體，宛如拋物線一般。另一個例子，西班牙加泰隆建築師安東尼•高地所製作的懸吊繩索模型。此時是19世紀末、20世紀初，該懸吊繩索模型最令人感興趣的是線條如何被詮釋為拱門和拱頂結構。所以，這些例子中，結構是最關鍵的決定力。Frei Otto利用泡沫的氣泡圖形和氣泡模型，設計了他的曼海姆(Mannheim)音樂廳。很有趣的，在過去十年，諾曼•福斯特也用了類似的熱傳導模型來產生國家藝廊的屋頂，那是和結構工程師Chris Williams的合作。 在所有這些例子中，都存在一個理想的形式，因為他們都以結構來思考。就建築師來說，我一直認為這種系統非常侷限，因為我對理想形式並不感興趣而且我也對形式最佳化到某種完美的地步不感興趣。 所以，我想提出的是另一個值得思考的層面。每當你想到自然，那基本上是一般形體透過基因演化後的結果。我心目中的英雄並不是達爾文；而是William Bateson（英國基因學家），他是Greg Bateson之父，曾長期居住在蒙特瑞(Monterey)，你可以稱他為畸形學家：他檢視各種畸形與突變案例並從中尋找規律與法則，而非只檢視通例。所以，與其尋找理想型態或理想平均值，他總是尋找例外情況。所以，以這個例子來說，這例子被稱作Bateson法則，他舉出兩種人類大拇指突變類型。10年前我初次看到這張影像，我其實覺得它暨奇異又美麗。美麗，是因為它具有對稱性。所以，當他發現在所有的拇指突變案例中，如果不是只有一個拇指，就是會長出另一個反向的拇指，或者你會得到另一組四個手指頭。所以，突變會回歸到對稱性。據此，Bateson發明了對稱斷裂(symmetry breaking)的概念。也就是說當你在系統中欠缺資訊時，你就回頭使用對稱法。所以，對稱無關乎秩序與組織 —這也是我基於建築師身分所一直理解的事實 —對稱是因為缺乏資訊。所以，每當你缺乏資訊時，你就用對稱；每當你增加資訊到系統中時，你就打破了對稱。於是，我們對於自然形體的想法就從尋找理想形狀轉變為尋找資訊和一般形式的組合。 你知道，看了那幅影像，以及瞭解Bateson所做的事情之後，我們開始利用這些對稱斷裂和分支的規則，開始思考建築形體。讓我稍微談一下我們所使用的數位媒介以及如何與微積分整合：所謂與微積分整合的意思是我們不需要用理想度量單位或離散的單元來思考大小尺寸。 所以，在建築界我們處理的是元件的大型組合體，例如說可能有五萬件材料構成了你所身處的這個房間，而這些材料都必須被妥善安置。一般而言，你可能認為這些材料都是一樣的：例如你所坐的椅子尺寸應該都相同。我並沒有確認這件事，但根據標準規範每張椅子的尺寸應該略有不同，因為你需要將椅子錯開排列，避免遮住後排視線。構成天花板和照明的元件，也都逐漸失去它們的模組特性，而變成在尺寸上具備細微差異的物件。那是因為微積分工具也都介入了它們的設計與生產過程。 微積分也是一種曲線的數學。所以，即使是直線，在微積分中也是一種曲線，它只不過是沒有彎曲的曲線。所以，有一種新的形式語彙逐漸充斥在各種設計領域：無論是汽車、建築、產品等等，都被這種數位媒介所定義的曲率所影響。其中尺度的錯綜複雜 —就像鼻子與臉部的比例，都存在一種局部與全體在比例上的概念。就微積分而言，細部分割的想法就更為複雜了，因為無論全體或局部都是一個連續的序列。一大早上微積分課恐怕太辛苦了，所以我帶了一些圖片，僅僅示範它如何運作。 這是我們設計的韓國教堂，位於紐約市皇后區。在這個例子中，你會看到這個梯子的元件是重複出現的，但卻不是模組式的重複。這個結構中的每一個元素在距離和尺寸上都不一樣，每個接點的角度也不同。我們能設計、甚至建造出來的唯一辦法，就是要使用該形體的微積分定義。這個形體十分動態，所以當你行走跨越建築時，你可以看到相同形體以很動態的方式打開與關閉，因為它呈現了內在的動作向量品質。所以呈現為封閉量體的相同空間，從另外一側看，卻變成了開放的景觀。同時你還會感受到空間中的視覺移動，因為每個元素的樣式都一直改變，而這樣式會將你的視線帶向聖壇。我想這對建築造成的改變，就是：除了像教堂裡拉丁十字般的理想形式外，我們開始尋找不同的東西，甚至包括了教堂的所有特徵：例如不知從何而來、由背後投出的光線，很自然讓你聚焦至聖壇的方向。我們並不需要多麼深奧的學問去設計、造就神聖的空間。你只需要用特定的方式去結合若干空間特點即可。所以，這些內部空間的不同面向，都具備了十分複雜的角度變化，縱使每個變化的形式都很簡單。 就營造和構築而言，這是個約莫一公里長的住宅街廓興建於七〇年代的阿姆斯特丹。我們將500間公寓打散成為若干小型區域，並且刻意讓它們有差異性。我不打算講述太多關於這些計畫的細節，但你可以看到電扶梯和升降梯沿著建築物表面輸送人群它們是由122根結構桁架支撐。因為我們用電扶梯輸送人群，這些構架承受了對角線方向的重量。所以，每根構架的形狀都有些許差異，尤其當沿著建築物長軸移動時可以觀察到。所以，我們在賓特利公司的MicroStation上撰寫了自己的軟體，將所有元件以網路形式串連成為一段段的資訊，當我們沿著建築物長軸變更任何元件時，不僅會連帶改變整棟建築的每根構架，這些構架還會將資訊傳遞到建築的整個立面。對建築物的每個元件而言，我們所加上的都是獨立的運算。所以，光光為了設計兩組結構鋼樑之間的接點就要進行千萬次的運算。但它所賦與我們的是一種介於所有元件彼此之間的和諧與合成關係。 受到這想法影響，我也涉獵了產品設計，因為不少設計公司都和建築師有合作關係，例如我目前合作的家具設計公司Vitra和家庭用具設計公司Alessi。他們認為這可以解決一個問題：區分元件，並使它們充分整合在一起的能力。不是要挑剔BMW，也不是稱讚他們，而是拿BMW當個例子。在2005年，他們必須要讓全系列的車種都具備鮮明的企業特徵。譬如300系列或者任何一款新車，即將推出的100系列，也都要看起來像他們產品線另一端昂貴的700系列，所以他們都需要一些鮮明而易於瞭解的特徵，也就是BMW。同時，有人付三萬美元買300系列，也有人願意花七萬美元買七百系列，付了兩倍價錢的人不會希望他們的車看起來太像廉價車款。所以不同等級車款間的差異勢必要易於辨識。當生產製造過程開始提供更多的設計選擇，這個問題就更加嚴重了，對整體與局部而言都一樣。 身為建築師，全體-局部的關係 —是我最關注的，但就產品設計來說也逐漸變成設計公司所需面對的問題了。我們首先拿來測試的產品是和Alessi合作，是一套咖啡茶具組。那是一套相當昂貴的咖啡茶具組；我們打從一開始就知道了。所以，我拜訪了聖地牙哥的一些朋友，我們採用鈦金屬爆炸成形法，這種方法多用在航太工業。基本上我們能做的，只是切割石墨模子，放進烤箱、加熱至一千度，緩慢對軟化的鈦金屬充氣，接著在最後一刻將其爆炸，形成最終形體。但最棒的是，產生形體只需花幾百美金。鈦金屬要花幾千美金，但產生形體變得很廉價。所以我們設計了一個系統其中包括可以相互置換的八條曲線，那和我剛才提到的建築案很類似，接著我們將他們合併在一起，確保所得到的造型符合人因工程同時維持相同體積而且能被建造出來。這麼一來，雖然這些工具的價值每個只有幾百美金，卻能產生元件之間令人意想不到的變化。這僅是諸多例子之一。所以對我來說，重要的是這組咖啡茶具組 —雖然只不過是咖啡壺、茶壺，一般放在托盤上的茶壺 —他們有一種類似性 —他們可以被稱作Greg Lynn Alessi咖啡壺 —但每個購買這組茶具的人都會買到一組在某些特點上獨一無二的設計。 回到建築議題，對建築學科來說，有機的定義不同於產品設計，乃在於機能整體性的問題以及不朽的價值，那才是我們的領域。像是我們所設計出來的東西通常具有類似性，但同時也區分為不同的房間而且無論在大尺度和小尺度上都能彰顯自我身分。建築師偏好處理識別性，所以建築師需要識別性在房子的不同尺度下都要具備這種識別性大到摩天大樓都一樣。處理識別性的問題是我們的專長而就複雜性，來自於建築物各種元素，如建築物外型、結構、開窗、顏色、樣式等。這些都是實際的建築問題。 所以自然界在這方面我所崇拜的是熱帶雨蛙。我對他們感到興趣的原因是他們極為特殊的表皮以及紋理 — 姑且稱作裝飾吧 —雖然雨蛙不這麼認為，但它呈現出來的的確是裝飾 —這些複雜的紋理彼此相互連結。當雨蛙的形體有所改變身上的花紋隨之變化。所以，花紋和型態雖然不是同一件事，但他們卻以一種獨特的方式彼此融合、交互運作。所以呢，當我設計哥斯大黎加國家公園旅客中心時，我們嘗試運用漸層色以及以及紋理變化的想法它們會隨著結構的不同而有所改變。我們也讓連續的變化從展覽大廳延續到自然歷史博物館，所以連續變化是整體性的橫跨建築量體。然而在量體之內，空間和形式卻大異其趣。 在西班牙瓦倫西亞的住宅案裡，我們嘗試將不同的住宅高樓融合在一起使其外圍曲線呈現一致性，結合為單一量體，就像一整塊石頭般，但其實它卻由不同單元組合而成。這種在量體的變化同時也給所有48個住宅單元它們獨特的形狀與大小，只不過被包覆在一種像是限制框架的包覆容器內。 我和一群建築師共事，我們的公司叫做「聯合建築師(United Architects)」。我們的作品曾進入紐約世貿大樓原址競圖案決選。我想這呈現了我們想嘗試超大型建案的企圖。我們想在世貿大樓原址的基地周邊圍繞著一圈哥德式教堂。為了達成目的，我們嘗試將五棟大樓連結為單一系統。從1950年代開始，已經有不少建築師嘗試去做相同的事情。我們的作法是去處理建築物的類型，使得五棟原本分離的大樓，能在60樓的位置相連結成為單一的巨型量體。聯合建築師事務所也參與了歐洲中央銀行總部的設計提案，也採用了相同系統，但這個提案的單一量體更大，就像一顆球。再一次強調，你所看到的這種複合建築元素的有機融合方法使得事物以一種令人驚異的有機方式建構為一個整體，其構成單元又能獨立存在。 最後，我想讓大家看一些數位製造技術的影響。大約六年前，我買了一部電腦數值控制雕銑機，原本是為了減少年輕人切割建築模型的頻繁意外。我也買了一部雷射切割機放在模型工廠內，進行大型建築元件與模型的製作，方便大家使用各種工具與機具。我發現在工具使用上，如果你在軟體上下功夫，可以製造出裝飾效果。所以像是室內設計，例如這個瑞典斯德哥爾摩的商店，或者荷蘭建築學會的裝置牆面設計，我們會用工具所留下的質感來產生不錯的空間效果，我們會利用這種材料將牆的紋理質感和形式整合起來。所以傳統上真空成形塑膠、玻璃纖維、甚至結構鋼材，都被視為是線性、模矩化的建材。鋼鐵業已經嘗試和設計業合作，如果你能利用這個機會你甚至可以開始想像建築中的樑與柱扭曲纏繞為單一個效能極佳的結構系統，卻也同時呈現了必要的裝飾效果以及外形效果，充分滿足了我們對美感與有機的需求。謝謝大家。
