Talk	en	zh-tw
guillaume_nery_the_exhilarating_peace_of_freediving	"(Video) Announcer: 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Official top. Plus one, two, three, four, five six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Guillaume Néry, France. Constant weight, 123 meters, three minutes and 25 seconds. National record attempt. 70 meters. [123 meters] (Applause) (Video) Judge: White card. Guillaume Néry! National record! Guillaume Néry: Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much, thanks for the warm welcome. That dive you just watched is a journey — a journey between two breaths. A journey that takes place between two breaths — the last one before diving into the water, and the first one, coming back to the surface. That dive is a journey to the very limits of human possibility, a journey into the unknown. But it's also, and above all, an inner journey, where a number of things happen, physiologically as well as mentally. And that's why I'm here today, to share my journey with you and to take you along with me. So, we start with the last breath. (Breathing in) (Breathing out) As you noticed, that last breath in is slow, deep and intense. It ends with a special technique called the carp, which allows me to store one to two extra liters of air in my lungs by compressing it. When I leave the surface, I have about 10 liters of air in my lungs. As soon as I leave the surface the first mechanism kicks in: the diving reflex. The first thing the diving reflex does is make your heart rate drop. My heart beat will drop from about 60-70 per minute to about 30-40 beats per minute in a matter of seconds; almost immediately. Next, the diving reflex causes peripheral vasoconstriction, which means that the blood flow will leave the body's extremities to feed the most important organs: the lungs, the heart and the brain. This mechanism is innate. I cannot control it. If you go underwater, even if you've never done it before, you'll experience the exact same effects. All human beings share this characteristic. And what's extraordinary is that we share this instinct with marine mammals — all marine mammals: dolphins, whales, sea lions, etc. When they dive deep into the ocean, these mechanisms become activated, but to a greater extent. And, of course, it works much better for them. It's absolutely fascinating. Right as I leave the surface, nature gives me a push in the right direction, allowing me to descend with confidence. So as I dive deeper into the blue, the pressure slowly starts to squeeze my lungs. And since it's the amount of air in my lungs that makes me float, the farther down I go, the more pressure there is on my lungs, the less air they contain and the easier it is for my body to fall. And at one point, around 35 or 40 meters down, I don't even need to swim. My body is dense and heavy enough to fall into the depths by itself, and I enter what's called the free fall phase. The free fall phase is the best part of the dive. It's the reason I still dive. Because it feels like you're being pulled down and you don't need to do anything. I can go from 35 meters to 123 meters without making a single movement. I let myself be pulled by the depths, and it feels like I'm flying underwater. It's truly an amazing feeling — an extraordinary feeling of freedom. And so I slowly continue sliding to the bottom. 40 meters down, 50 meters down, and between 50 and 60 meters, a second physiological response kicks in. My lungs reach residual volume, below which they're not supposed to be compressed, in theory. And this second response is called blood shift, or ""pulmonary erection"" in French. I prefer ""blood shift."" (Laughter) So blood shift — how does it work? The capillaries in the lungs become engorged with blood — which is caused by the suction — so the lungs can harden and protect the whole chest cavity from being crushed. It prevents the two walls of the lungs from collapsing, from sticking together and caving in. Thanks to this phenomenon, which we also share with marine mammals, I'm able to continue with my dive. 60, 70 meters down, I keep falling, faster and faster, because the pressure is crushing my body more and more. Below 80 meters, the pressure becomes a lot stronger, and I start to feel it physically. I really start to feel the suffocation. You can see what it looks like — not pretty at all. The diaphragm is completely collapsed, the rib cage is squeezed in, and mentally, there is something going on as well. You may be thinking, ""This doesn't look enjoyable. How do you do it?"" If I relied on my earthly reflexes — what do we do above water when there's a problem? We resist, we go against it. We fight. Underwater, that doesn't work. If you try that underwater, you might tear your lungs, spit up blood, develop an edema and you'll have to stop diving for a good amount of time. So what you need to do, mentally, is to tell yourself that nature and the elements are stronger than you. And so I let the water crush me. I accept the pressure and go with it. At this point, my body receives this information, and my lungs start relaxing. I relinquish all control, and relax completely. The pressure starts crushing me, and it doesn't feel bad at all. I even feel like I'm in a cocoon, protected. And the dive continues. 80, 85 meters down, 90, 100. 100 meters — the magic number. In every sport, it's a magic number. For swimmers and athletes and also for us, free divers, it's a number everyone dreams of. Everyone wishes one day to be able to get to 100 meters. And it's a symbolic number for us, because in the 1970s, doctors and physiologists did their math, and predicted that the human body would not be able to go below 100 meters. Below that, they said, the human body would implode. And then the Frenchman, Jacques Mayol — you all know him as the hero in ""The Big Blue"" — came along and dived down to 100 meters. He even reached 105 meters. At that time, he was doing ""no limits."" He'd use weights to descend faster and come back up with a balloon, just like in the movie. Today, we go down 200 meters in no limit free diving. I can do 123 meters by simply using muscle strength. And in a way, it's all thanks to him, because he challenged known facts, and with a sweep of his hand, got rid of the theoretical beliefs and all the mental limits that we like to impose on ourselves. He showed us that the human body has an infinite ability to adapt. So I carry on with my dive. 105, 110, 115. The bottom is getting closer. 120, 123 meters. I'm at the bottom. And now, I'd like to ask you to join me and put yourself in my place. Close your eyes. Imagine you get to 123 meters. The surface is far, far away. You're alone. There's hardly any light. It's cold — freezing cold. The pressure is crushing you completely — 13 times stronger than on the surface. And I know what you're thinking: ""This is horrible. What the hell am I doing here? He's insane."" But no. That's not what I think when I'm down there. When I'm at the bottom, I feel good. I get this extraordinary feeling of well-being. Maybe it's because I've completely released all tensions and let myself go. I feel great, without the need to breathe. Although, you'd agree, I should be worried. I feel like a tiny dot, a little drop of water, floating in the middle of the ocean. And each time, I picture the same image. [The Pale Blue Dot] It's that small dot the arrow is pointing to. Do you know what it is? It's planet Earth. Planet Earth, photographed by the Voyager probe, from 4 billion kilometers away. And it shows that our home is that small dot over there, floating in the middle of nothing. That's how I feel when I'm at the bottom, at 123 meters. I feel like a small dot, a speck of dust, stardust, floating in the middle of the cosmos, in the middle of nothing, in the immensity of space. It's a fascinating sensation, because when I look up, down, left, right, in front, behind, I see the same thing: the infinite deep blue. Nowhere else on Earth you can experience this — looking all around you, and seeing the same thing. It's extraordinary. And at that moment, I still get that feeling each time, building up inside of me — the feeling of humility. Looking at this picture, I feel very humble — just like when I'm all the way down at the bottom — because I'm nothing, I'm a little speck of nothingness lost in all of time and space. And it still is absolutely fascinating. I decide to go back to the surface, because this is not where I belong. I belong up there, on the surface. So I start heading back up. I get something of a shock at the very moment when I decide to go up. First, because it takes a huge effort to tear yourself away from the bottom. It pulled you down on the way in, and will do the same on the way up. You have to swim twice as hard. Then, I'm hit with another phenomenon known as narcosis. I don't know if you've heard of that. It's called nitrogen narcosis. It's something that happens to scuba divers, but it can happen to free divers. It's caused by nitrogen dissolving in the blood, which causes confusion between the conscious and unconscious mind. A flurry of thoughts goes spinning through your head. You can't control them, and you shouldn't try to — you have to let it happen. The more you try to control it, the harder it is to manage. Then, a third thing happens: the desire to breathe. I'm not a fish, I'm a human being, and the desire to breathe reminds me of that fact. Around 60, 70 meters, you start to feel the need to breathe. And with everything else that's going on, you can very easily lose your ground and start to panic. When that happens, you think, ""Where's the surface? I want to go up. I want to breathe now."" You should not do that. Never look up to the surface — not with your eyes, or your mind. You should never picture yourself up there. You have to stay in the present. I look at the rope right in front of me, leading me back to the surface. And I focus on that, on the present moment. Because if I think about the surface, I panic. And if I panic, it's over. Time goes faster this way. And at 30 meters: deliverance. I'm not alone any more. The safety divers, my guardian angels, join me. They leave the surface, we meet at 30 meters, and they escort me for the final few meters, where potential problems could arise. Every time I see them, I think to myself, ""It's thanks to you."" It's thanks to them, my team, that I'm here. It brings back the sense of humility. Without my team, without all the people around me, the adventure into the deep would be impossible. A journey into the deep is above all a group effort. So I'm happy to finish my journey with them, because I wouldn't be here if it weren't for them. 20 meters, 10 meters, my lungs slowly return to their normal volume. Buoyancy pushes me up to the surface. Five meters below the surface, I start to breathe out, so that as soon as I get to the surface all I do is breathe in. And so I arrive at the surface. (Breathing in) Air floods into my lungs. It's like being born again, a relief. It feels good. Though the journey was extraordinary, I do need to feel those small oxygen molecules fueling my body. It's an extraordinary sensation, but at the same time it's traumatizing. It's a shock to the system, as you can you imagine. I go from complete darkness to the light of day, from the near-silence of the depths to the commotion up top. In terms of touch, I go from the soft, velvety feeling of the water, to air rubbing across my face. In terms of smell, there is air rushing into my lungs. And in return, my lungs open up. They were completely squashed just 90 seconds ago, and now, they've opened up again. So all of this affects quite a lot of things. I need a few seconds to come back, and to feel ""all there"" again. But that needs to happen quickly, because the judges are there to verify my performance; I need to show them I'm in perfect physical condition. You saw in the video, I was doing a so-called exit protocol. Once at the surface, I have 15 seconds to take off my nose clip, give this signal and say (English) ""I am OK."" Plus, you need to be bilingual. (Laughter) On top of everything — that's not very nice. Once the protocol is completed, the judges show me a white card, and that's when the joy starts. I can finally celebrate what has just happened. So, the journey I've just described to you is a more extreme version of free diving. Luckily, it's far from just that. For the past few years, I've been trying to show another side of free diving, because the media mainly talks about competitions and records. But free diving is more than just that. It's about being at ease in the water. It's extremely beautiful, very poetic and artistic. So my wife and I decided to film it and try to show another side of it, mostly to make people want to go into the water. Let me show you some images to finish my story. It's a mix of beautiful underwater photos. (Music) I'd like you to know that if one day you try to stop breathing, you'll realize that when you stop breathing, you stop thinking, too. It calms your mind. Today, in the 21st century, we're under so much pressure. Our minds are overworked, we think at a million miles an hour, we're always stressed. Being able to free dive lets you, just for a moment, relax your mind. Holding your breath underwater means giving yourself the chance to experience weightlessness. It means being underwater, floating, with your body completely relaxed, letting go of all your tensions. This is our plight in the 21st century: our backs hurt, our necks hurt, everything hurts, because we're stressed and tense all the time. But when you're in the water, you let yourself float, as if you were in space. You let yourself go completely. It's an extraordinary feeling. You can finally get in touch with your body, mind and spirit. Everything feels better, all at once. Learning how to free dive is also about learning to breathe correctly. We breathe with our first breath at birth, up until our last one. Breathing gives rhythm to our lives. Learning how to breathe better is learning how to live better. Holding your breath in the sea, not necessarily at 100 meters, but maybe at two or three, putting on your goggles, a pair of flippers, means you can go see another world, another universe, completely magical. You can see little fish, seaweed, the flora and fauna, you can watch it all discreetly, sliding underwater, looking around, and coming back to the surface, leaving no trace. It's an amazing feeling to become one with nature like that. And if I may say one more thing, holding your breath, being in the water, finding this underwater world — it's all about connecting with yourself. You heard me talk a lot about the body's memory that dates back millions of years, to our marine origins. The day you get back into the water, when you hold your breath for a few seconds, you will reconnect with those origins. And I guarantee it's absolute magic. I encourage you to try it out. Thank you. (Applause)"	"(視頻)播音員: 10秒.五, 四, 三, 二, 一.挑戰吉尼斯,(計時)一, 二, 三, 四, 五.六, 七, 八, 九 十.Guillaume Néry, 法國人.constant weight(一種自由潛水項目)深入水下123米,在3分25秒內.挑戰國家記錄.水下70米.(水下123米) (掌聲) (視頻)裁判: 白牌.Guillaume Néry! 你創造了全國紀錄! Guillaume Néry: 謝謝你們. (掌聲) 非常感謝你們, 謝謝你們熱烈的歡迎.剛剛你看到的潛泳是一趟旅程—兩次呼吸之間的旅程.旅程中的這兩次呼吸—後一次是發生在潛入水中之前,前一次是回到水面上.那次深潛是一次邁向人類極限的旅程,一次探索未知的旅程.但是, 最重要的是,它是一次內心的旅程,在那裡, 發生了很多事情,無論是生理上還是心理上.這就是我今天在這裡的原因,與你分享我的旅程, 帶你一同經歷. 所以, 我們開始最後一次呼吸.(吸氣)(呼氣)你也注意到了, 最後一次呼吸很慢, 很深, 很強烈.它以一種叫做""carp""的特殊技巧結束,能讓我通過壓縮的方式讓肺多存儲一或兩升的空氣.能讓我通過壓縮的方式讓肺多存儲一或兩升的空氣.當我離開水面, 我的肺部幾乎有十升的空氣.當我一離開水面,身體的機制開始反應:潛水反射.潛水反射所造成的第一個後果就是心率下降.我的心跳將會從60-70下每分鐘降到30-40每分鐘在短短幾秒之內;幾乎是瞬間. 接下來, 潛水反射造成了周邊血管收縮.這意味著血流將會離開四肢向最重要的器官流去來供應他們:肺, 心臟, 大腦,這個身體機制是與生俱來的.我無法控制.如果你去水下,即使你之前從未做過這件事,你也會經歷同樣的過程.所有的人類都是這樣的.令人驚奇的是我們和海生哺乳動物有都有這種本能—所有的海生哺乳動物:海豚, 鯨魚, 海獅, 等等等等,當它們深潛入海中, 這種機制就會被激活,而且會有更明顯的反應.並且, 當然, 這種機制在它們身上運作得更好.這很吸引人. 當我潛水下去時,本能便把我推向一個正確的方向,讓我能夠充滿信心的向下潛去. 這樣當我向這片深藍潛得更深,水壓開始緩緩地擠壓我的肺部.並且, 因為就是肺部的空氣讓我在水中漂浮,所以我走得 越遠,我的肺部受到的壓力也越大,存儲的空氣也越少, 身體也能越早自然下降.在某一個點, 大概水下35-40米的時候,我甚至不需要游泳了.我的身體密度很高並且很重,它自己就能像深處下降,我進入了所謂的""自由下降時段"".自由下降時段是潛水中最棒的部分.它是我現在仍然潛水的原因.因為, 它就好像你被推著往下並且你什麼都不用做.我能一動不動地從水下35米潛到123米.我讓自己被深處推著前進,那感覺就像我在水下飛行,真的是令人驚異的感覺—一種無法言說的自由. 我繼續滑向底部.下潛了40米,下潛了50米,而在50米和60米之間時, 第二個生理反應出現了.我的肺到達了馀氣量,理論上, 這些氣體量是不能被壓縮的,第二個生理反應叫做blood shift.或者法語中叫做pulmonary erection.我更喜歡說blood shift. (笑聲) 所以blood shift—它是如何作用的?肺部的毛細管變得充血—這是由吸力產生的—所以肺部會變硬來保護胸腔不被水壓跨.它使肺部的兩道""牆""不被垮塌,不會粘在一起然後坍塌.幸虧這種現象—也是我們和海生哺乳動物相同的特性—我才能繼續我的潛泳. 下潛了六七十米,我一直在下降, 越來越快,因為水的壓力越來越狠地擠壓我的身體.水下80米,壓力變得很強,我開始察覺到了它.我開始真切地感到了窒息.你能看到那是什麼樣的—一點也不好看.橫膈膜全部塌陷, 胸腔也被擠壓到裡面去了,並且, 精神上, 也發生了一些不好的事情. 你或許會想,""這樣可不舒服,你該怎麼做呢?""如果我依賴我早期的反應—當我們在水面上, 面對困難時, 我們會怎麼做?我們抵抗, 我們對它反著來.我們與之鬥爭.在水下, 這些都沒用.如果你試過在水下這樣, 你可能會撕裂你的肺,噴血, 患上水腫最後你為了能活下去不得不停止潛水.所以你需要做的只是在心理上, 告訴你自己自然環境遠遠比你強大. 所以就讓水來碾壓我吧.我接受了那股壓力並且與它協調.在這時, 我的身體接受了這個信息,我的肺部開始放鬆.我放棄了所有的控制權, 完全地放鬆了.水的壓力開始碾壓我, 它絲毫不受影響.我甚至感覺我在一個繭中, 被保護著. 繼續下潛.下潛80, 85米,90米,100米,100—一個神奇的數字.在每項體育運動中, 它是一個神奇的數字.對於游泳者, 運動員以及我們這些自由潛泳者來說,這是一個每個人都夢想著突破的數字.每個人都夢想著有一天能夠到達100米.它對我們來說是一個象徵性的數字,因為在1970年代, 醫生和生理學家通過計算,預言人類身體不能潛入水下100米.一旦如此, 他們說,人類身體便會內爆.然後法國人, Jacques Mayol—你們都知道在電影The Big Blue中作為英雄的他—他出現了, 並且在水中向下潛了100米.他甚至達到了105米.在那個時候, 他做的是""no limits(一種自由潛水項目)""他會用重量來更快地下潛並且帶一隻氣球回到水面.就像在電影中的一樣.今天, 我們在no limits潛水中下潛到200米.我能僅僅通過肌肉強度來抵抗水壓下潛到123米.這樣來說, 全部都要感謝他, 因為他質疑了眾所周知的""事實"",並且靠他自己的努力, 消除了一些理論上的""信條""以及所有的心理上的自我限制.他向我們展示了人類身體對於適應環境有著無窮的能力. 我繼續我的下潛.105, 110, 115米.底部越來越近了.120米,123米.我到底部了. 現在, 我邀請你, 和我一起, 並且想像你正在我的位置上.閉上眼睛.想像你到了水下123米.水面離你很遠, 很遠.你是孤獨的.這裡幾乎沒有任何光亮.這裡很冷—刺骨的冷.水壓快把你壓碎了—比在水邊上的壓力強13倍.我知道你在想什麼:""這太可怕了.我在到底這裡做什麼""他肯定是瘋了.""但是: 不.這不是我在水下那麼深的時候想的東西.當我在底部的時候, 我感覺很好.我感受到了一種言語無法表達的康樂的感覺.或許是因為我完全放鬆了所有的緊張, 壓力放開自己.我感覺好極了, 不需要呼吸. 肅然, 你會認為, 我應該感到擔憂.我像一個小點,一滴水珠,在海洋中漂浮.每一次, 我想到同一幅圖.(圖片:暗淡的藍點)就是那個箭頭指向的小點.你知道那是什麼嗎?它是地球.地球, 被旅行者號探測器拍攝的照片.從四十億千米外拍攝.這展現了我們的家園就是那個小點,在虛無中漂浮. 這就是我的感受.當我在水底, 水下123米,我像一個小點,一粒塵埃, 星塵在宇宙中漂浮,在虛無中漂浮.在廣袤的空間中漂浮.這是一種迷人的感覺,因為當我向上看, 向下看,向左, 向右, 向前, 向後,我看到的是同一事物:無限的深藍.地球沒有哪個地方能讓你體驗這個了—向你周圍看, 看到的是同一事物.這是令人驚異的.在那個時刻,我仍然每次都有相同的感覺,它在我的內心已根深蒂固—謙卑的感覺. 看看這張圖片我感覺非常卑微—就像我一路向下到達底部時—因為我很微小,我微若無物,在時間和空間裡迷失.但這也是非常迷人的.我決定回到水面, 因為這裡不是我屬於的地方.我屬於哪裡, 水面上. 所以我開始返回.我總是被震驚到在每一個我決定回去的瞬間.最初, 因為把你自己扯離水底是需要巨大努力的.它在你下潛的過程中往下推你,在你上升過程中也會這樣.你游泳時必須付出兩倍的努力.接下來, 我又經歷了另一個現象, 就是昏迷狀態.我不知道你們是否聽說過這個.它被叫做氮麻醉.這是發生在水肺潛水員身上的事.但是也能發生在自由潛泳者身上.它是由血液中溶解的氮氣引起的,它能造成在有意識和無意識的混淆.它能造成在有意識和無意識之間的混淆.一道道思緒劃過心中.你無法控制它, 你也不該去控制它—你應該隨其自然.你越想控制它, 解決問題就越難.接下來, 發生了第三件事:呼吸的慾望.我不是一條魚, 我是人類,想呼吸的慾望也提醒了我這一點.差不多60, 70米,你開始感覺到你需要呼吸.再加上其他的正在發生的一些事情,你很容易失了分寸,開始恐慌.那一切發生的時候, 你會想, ""地面在哪兒?我想上去, 我現在非常想呼吸.""你不應該這樣做.絕對不要往上看—眼睛不要, 心裡也不要.你絕不應該想像你在水面上.你應該安於現狀.我看著眼前的這根繩子, 它指引著我回到水面.我把精神集中在它上面, 就現在.因為如果我想著水面, 我會慌張.如果我慌張了, 一切都完了.現在這樣做會讓時間會過得更快. 就在水下30米時: 有人會來幫助我.我不再孤獨.安全潛水員, 我的保護天使, 和我一起了.他們離開水面,我們在水下30米碰頭,他們在最後幾米的旅程護送我,那也是一些隱藏的問題可能發生的時刻.每次我看見他們, 我對自己說:""感謝你們.""感謝他們, 我的團隊, 只有他們我才能在這裡.這又勾起了那股謙卑之感.沒有了我的團隊, 沒有了我身邊的人,這通往水下深處的旅程將會是子虛烏有.這通往深處的旅程是在建立在眾人的努力之上的. 所以我很高興能同他們一起結束這趟旅程,因為如果沒有他們, 我將不會在這裡.20米, 10米,我的肺部逐漸恢復了正常的容積.浮力把我推向水面.水下五米時, 我開始呼氣,一回到水面我就竭盡所能吸氣.所以我回到了水面.(吸氣)空氣湧入我的肺.那感覺就像重生了一般,解脫了.感覺妙極了.雖然旅程那麼非凡,我還是需要這些小小的氧氣分子使我的身體煥發活力.這是一種奇特的感覺, 同時也很痛苦.那對身體是一個衝擊, 你也能想像.我從完全的黑暗看到白天的陽光,從近乎無聲的深處到喧囂的水面.在觸覺上, 我從圓潤輕柔的水,到摩擦著我的臉頰的空氣.從味覺上,有空氣衝過我的肺. 於此同時, 我的肺打開了.它們在90秒前是完全壓扁的,現在, 它們又打開了.所有的這些相當瑣碎複雜.我需要幾秒鐘來恢復,找到""一切良好""的感覺.但我需要快點,因為裁判在那裡, 觀察我的表現:我需要向他們展示我狀態很好.你在視頻裡也看到了,我正在做所謂的""exit protocol"".一旦到達水面, 我只有15秒鐘來摘下鼻夾,做出這個手勢並且說:""I am OK(我很好).""另外, 我需要說兩種語言. (笑聲) 最重要的—那感覺並不好.一旦協議達成, 裁判向我展示一張白牌,樂趣就開始了.我終於能慶祝一下剛剛發生的事了. 所以, 我剛剛向你描述的旅程比自由潛泳更加極端.幸運的是, 它海遠不止我所描述的那樣.過去幾年,我一直在嘗試去展示自由潛泳的另一面.因為媒體總是只談論關於它的比賽, 記錄等等.但是自由潛泳遠不止如此.它是在水中的無比舒適與完全放鬆.它非常美麗, 詩意, 具有藝術性. 所以我和我的妻子決定拍攝它嘗試去展示它的另一面,主要是讓更多的人想一睹水下風采.讓我展示幾張圖片來結束我的故事.一系列水下風貌的照片. (音樂) 我希望有一天當你嘗試停止呼吸時, 能了解那種感覺,你會意識到當你停止呼吸時你也會停止思考.它使你冷靜. 今天, 在這21世紀, 我們承受了太多壓力.我們的思想都""負載""了,我們時時刻刻都有著萬千思緒,我們總是有壓迫感.自由潛泳會讓你, 就那麼一小會兒,得到心靈的放鬆.在水下屏住呼吸意味著給你一個機會來體驗身輕如燕的感覺.它意味著在水下, 漂浮著,你的身體完全地放輕鬆, 忘卻所有的束縛.這是我們在21世紀的窘境:我們腰酸, 背痛, 腿抽筋, 十分不適,因為我們有壓力, 而且時刻保持警惕.但當你在水中時,你讓自己漂浮, 就像你在太空中一樣.你完全放開了自己.這是一種令人驚奇的感覺.你終於能觸摸到你的身體, 思想, 和心靈.那一剎, 感覺如臨仙境. 學習如何自由潛泳也關乎學習如何正確地呼吸.我們從出生時的第一口開始呼吸, 直到斷氣.呼吸給了我們生命的節奏.學會如何更好地呼吸也就是學會如何更好地生活.在海中屏住呼吸, 不需要到海下100米,也許兩三米就夠了,帶上護目鏡, 一雙人造蹼,意味著你能去看看另外一個世界,另外一個宇宙, 如魔法般神奇.你能看到小魚, 海草, 植物群和動物群,你能默默地看著它們,在水下游動, 向四周看, 再來到水面,不留痕跡.像這樣, 成為自然的一部分, 是一種令人驚異的感覺. 如果我可以多說一句,那就是,屏住呼吸, 在水下, 探索這水下的世界—這一切都是接近自我.你聽過我大談特談身體的記憶—那是幾百萬年前, 海洋母親懷裡的我們.你跳入水中的那一刻,當你屏住呼吸, 就幾秒—你會接近我們的起源.我保證那絕對如魔法般神奇.我鼓勵你去嘗試一下. 謝謝你們. (掌聲)"
