Talk	en	zh-tw
haley_van_dyck_how_a_start_up_in_the_white_house_is_changing_business_as_usual	"I'm here to talk to you today about a story that we have all been conditioned to believe is not possible. It's a story about a living, breathing start-up flourishing in an unlikely environment: the United States government. Now, this start-up is fundamentally beginning to disrupt the way government does business from the inside out. But before I get there, let's start with the problem. For me, the problem begins with a number: 137. 137 is the average number of days a veteran has to wait to have benefits processed by the VA. 137 days. Now, in order to file that application in the first place, she has to navigate over 1,000 different websites and over 900 different call-in numbers, all owned and operated by the United States government. Now, we live in times of incredible change. The private sector is constantly changing and improving itself all the time. For that matter, it's removing every single inconvenience in my life that I could possibly think of. I could be sitting on my couch in my apartment, and from my phone, I can order a warm, gluten-free meal that can arrive at my door in less than 10 minutes. But meanwhile, a working mother who depends on food stamps to support her family has to complete an arduous, complicated application which she might not even be able to do online. And the inability of her to do that same work from her couch means that she might be having to take days or hours off of work that she can't spare. And this growing dichotomy between the beneficiaries of the tech revolution and those it's left behind is one of the greatest challenges of our time — (Applause) Because government's failure to deliver digital services that work is disproportionately impacting the very people who need it most. It's impacting the students trying to go to college, the single mothers trying to get health care, the veterans coming home from battle. They can't get what they need when they need it. And for these Americans, government is more than just a presidential election every four years. Government is a lifeline that provides services they need and depend on and deserve. Which is, quite frankly, why government needs to get its shit together and catch up. Just saying. (Applause) Now, this wasn't always a problem I was passionate about. When I joined President Obama's campaign in 2008, we brought the tech industry's best practices into politics. We earned more money, we engaged more volunteers and we earned more votes than any political campaign in history. We were a cutting-edge start-up that changed the game of politics forever. So when the President asked a small group of us to bring that very same disruption directly into government, I knew it wasn't going to be easy work, but I was eager and showed up ready to get to work. Now, on my first day in DC, my first day in government, I walked into the office and they handed me a laptop. And the laptop was running Windows 98. (Laughter) I mean, three entire presidential elections had come and gone since the government had updated the operating system on that computer. Three elections! Which is when we realized this problem was a whole lot bigger than we ever could have imagined. Let me paint the picture for you. The federal government is the largest institution in the world. It spends over 86 billion dollars a year — 86 billion — on federal IT projects. For context: that is more than the entire venture capital industry spends annually — on everything. Now, the problem here is that we the taxpayers are not getting what we pay for, because 94 percent of federal IT projects are over budget or behind schedule. 94 percent! For those of you keeping score, yes, the number 94 is very close to 100. (Laughter) There's another problem: 40 percent of those never end up seeing the light of day. They are completely scrapped or abandoned. Now, this is a very existentially painful moment for any organization, because it means as government continues to operate as it's programmed to do, failure is nearly inevitable. And when the status quo is the riskiest option, that means there is simply no other choice than radical disruption. So, what do we do about it? How do we fix this? Well, the irony of all of this is that we actually don't have to look any further than our backyard, because right here in America are the very ideas, the very people, who have swept our world into a radically different place than it was two decades ago. So what would it look like if it was actually as easy to get student loans or veterans' benefits as it is to order cat food to my house? What would it look like if there was an easy pathway for the very entrepreneurs and innovators who have disrupted our tech sector to come and disrupt their government? Well, my friends, here's where we get to talk about some of the exciting new formulas we've discovered for creating change in government. Enter the United States Digital Service. The United States Digital Service is a new network of start-ups, a team of teams, organizing themselves across government to create radical change. The mission of the United States Digital Service is to help government deliver world-class digital services for students, immigrants, children, the elderly — everybody — at dramatically lower costs. We are essentially trying to build a more awesome government, for the people, by the people, today. We don't care — (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Who doesn't want a more awesome government, right? We don't care about politics. We care about making government work better, because it's the only one we've got. (Applause) Now, you can think of our team — well, it's pretty funny — you can think of our team a little bit like the Peace Corps meets DARPA meets SEAL Team 6. We're like the Peace Corps for nerds, but instead of traveling to crazy, interesting, far-off places, you spend a lot of time indoors, behind computers, helping restore the fabric of our democracy. (Laughter) Now, this team — our playbook for the United States Digital Service is pretty simple. The first play is we recruit the very best talent our country has to offer, and recruit them for short tours of duty inside government. These are the very people who have helped build the products and companies that have made our tech sector amongst the most innovative in the world. Second, we pair these incredible people from the tech core with the dedicated civil servants already inside government on the ground creating change. Third, we strategically deploy them in a targeted formation at the most mission-critical, life-changing, important services that government offers. And finally, we give them massive air cover, from the leadership inside the agencies all the way up to the President himself, to transform these services for the better. Now, this team is beginning to disrupt how government does business from the inside out. If you study classic patterns of disruption, one very common pattern is rather simple. It's to take something that has become routine and standard in one industry and apply it to another where it's a radical departure from the status quo. Think about what Airbnb took that was normal from hospitality and revolutionized my apartment. The United States Digital Service is doing exactly that. We are taking what Silicon Valley and the private sector has learned through a ton of hard work about how to build planetary-scale digital services that delight users at lower cost, and we're applying that to government, where it is a radical departure from the status quo. Now, the good news is: it's starting to work. We know this because we can already see the results from some of our early projects, like the rescue effort of Healthcare.gov, when that went off the rails. Fixing Healthcare.gov was the first place that we ran this play, and today we are taking that same play and scaling it across a large number of government's most important citizen-facing services. Now, if I can take a moment and brag about the team for a second — it is the highest concentration of badasses I could have ever dreamed of. We have top talent from Google, Facebook, Amazon, Twitter and the likes, all on staff today, all choosing to join their government. And what's incredible is, everybody is as eager and kind as they are intelligent. And I might add, by the way, over half of us are women. (Applause) The best way to understand this strategy is actually to walk through a couple of examples of how it's working out in the wild. I'm going to give you two examples quickly. The first one is about immigration. This, my friends, is your typical immigration application. Yes, you guessed it — it's almost entirely paper-based. In the best case, the application takes about six to eight months to process. It is physically shipped thousands of miles — thousands of miles! — between no less than six processing centers. Now, little story: about a decade ago, the government thought that if it brought this system online, it could save taxpayer dollars and provide a better service, which was a great idea. So, the typical government process began. Six years and 1.2 billion dollars later, no working product was delivered — 1.2 billion with a ""B."" Now at this point, the agency responsible, US Citizenship and Immigration Services, could have kept pouring money into the failing program. Sadly, that's what often happens. That's the status quo today. But they didn't. The dedicated civil servants inside the agency decided to stand up and call for change. We deployed a small team of just six people, and what many people don't know is that's the same size as the rescue effort of Healthcare.gov — just six people. And that team jumped in, side-by-side, to support the agency in transitioning this project into more modern business practices, more modern development practices. Now, in non-tech speak, what that basically means is taking big, multi-year projects and breaking them up into bite-sized chunks, so that way we can reduce the risk and actually start to see results every couple of weeks, instead of waiting in a black box for years. So within less than three months of our team being on the ground, we were already able to push our first products to production. The first one, this is the form I-90. This is used to file for your replacement green card. Now, for immigrant visa holders, a replacement green card is a big deal. Your green card is your proof of identification, it's your work authorization, it's the proof that you can be here in this country. So waiting six months while the government processes the replacement is not cool. I'm excited to tell you that today, you can now, for the first time, file for a replacement green card entirely online without anyone touching a piece of paper. It is faster, it is cheaper, and it's a better user experience for the applicant and the government employees alike. (Applause) Another one, quickly. Last fall, we just released a brand-new practice civics test. So as part of becoming a US citizen, you have to pass a civics test. For anyone who has taken this test, it can be quite the stressful process. So our team released a very easy, simple-to-use tool in plain language to help people prepare, to help ease their nerves, to help them feel more confident in taking the next step in pursuing their American dream. Because all of this work, all of this work on immigration, is about taking complicated processes and making them more human. The other day, one of the dedicated civil servants on the ground said something incredibly profound. She said that she's never been this hopeful or optimistic about a project in her entire time in government. And she's been doing this for 30 years. That is exactly the kind of hope and culture change we are trying to create. For my second example, I want to bring it back to veterans for a second, and what we are doing to build them a VA that is worthy of their service and their sacrifice. I'm proud to say that just a few months ago, we released a brand-new beta of a new website, Vets.gov. Vets.gov is a simple, easy-to-use website that brings all of the online services a veteran needs into one place. One website, not thousands. The site is a work in progress, but it's significant progress, because it's designed with the users who matter most: the veterans themselves. This might sound incredibly obvious, because it should be, but sadly, this isn't normal for government. Far too often, product decisions are made by committees of stakeholders who do their best to represent the interests of the user, but they're not necessarily the users themselves. So our team at the VA went out, we looked at the data, we talked to veterans themselves and we started simple and small, with the two most important services that matter most to them: education benefits and disability benefits. I'm proud to say that they are live on the site today, and as the team continues to streamline more services, they will be ported over here, and the old sites, shut down. (Applause) To me, this is what change looks like in 2016. When you walk out of the Oval Office, the first time I was ever there, I noticed a quote the President had embroidered on the rug. It's the classic JFK quote. It says, ""No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings."" It's true. We have the tools to solve these problems. We have the tools to come together as a society, as a country, and to fix this together. Yes, it's hard. It's particularly hard when we have to fight, when we have to refuse to succumb to the belief that things won't change. But in my experience, it's often the hardest things that are the most worth doing, because if we don't do them, who will? This is on us, all of us, together, because government is not an abstract institution or a concept. Our government is us. (Applause) Today, it is no longer a question of if change is possible. The question is not, ""Can we?"" The question is, ""Will we?"" Will you? Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我在這裡要向大家講述一個我們習以為常認為不可能的事。這是關於一間新創公司在不可能的環境 —即美國政府裡，走向繁榮的故事。這個初創團隊正從根本上由內而外徹底改變政府的運作方式，在此之前，讓我們從談問題開始。 對我來說，問題始於137 這個數字。137 是每位退伍軍人向退伍軍人協會申請福利所需要等待的平均天數，137 天。為了提交申請，首先需要瀏覽超過一千個不同的網站及九百多個不同的電話號碼，全部都是由美國政府擁有及運作。 我們生活在瞬息萬變的時代，私人機構不斷變化，不斷自我改進，因此改善了生活中任何我想得到的不便之處。我能坐在家裡的沙發上用手機訂購熱騰騰無麩質的餐點，十分鐘內就能送到我家門口，但與此同時，一個需依靠食物券養家活口的上班族媽媽，卻要填寫艱深複雜的申請表格，甚至可能無法上網填寫。她無法在家中沙發上申請，意味著她得請假幾個小時甚至幾天，而她負擔不起請假不工作。今天介於科技革命的受益者和無法受益者之間日益加深的鴻溝，是我們這時代所面對最挑戰的課題之一。 （掌聲） 因政府未能提供可行的數位化服務，嚴重影響了非常需要被服務的人民；影響到申請大學的學生、申請醫療保健的單親媽媽、和從戰場回家的退伍軍人；他們無法獲得亟需的幫助。對這些美國人而言，政府不僅僅是四年一次的總統選舉，而是能服務他們的生命線。他們需要、依賴和應得這些服務。坦白說，這是政府需要「糞」起直追的原因。就是這樣。 （掌聲） 以前這並不是一個我非常熱切關心的問題，2008 年，我加入歐巴馬總統的競選活動，當時我們把科技產業最佳的實務經驗帶到政治中，我們募到更多的經費，吸引到更多的參與志工，而且贏得史上最多的選票。我們是一家尖端的新創公司，就此改變了政治的遊戲規則。所以當總統要求我們這小組人把同樣的創新方法直接帶進政府，我知道這不會是件容易的工作，但我熱切渴望能立即上工。 我到華盛頓的第一天，為政府工作的首日，走進辦公室，他們遞給我一台筆記型電腦，一台依舊使用 Windows 98作業系統的電腦。 （笑聲） 自政府更新那台電腦至Win 98 作業系統後，我們已歷經了三次的總統選舉，三次總統選舉！當時我們就意識到問題遠遠超出我們的想像。讓我描述一下情況。 聯邦政府是世界上最大的機構，一年花費超過 860 億美元，「860 億美元」在聯邦政府的 IT 專案上。周邊景況是：比整個創投業全年的總開支還要多。錢花了，但問題是我們納稅人未能得到相對應有的服務，因為 94% 的聯邦政府 IT 項目不是預算超支，就是進度落後，94%！對你們當中很會計分的人而言，94 非常接近 100。 （笑聲） 還有另一個問題，40% 的電腦從未見到天日，不是被報廢，就是被遺棄。對任何組織而言是非常痛苦的時刻，因為這意味著若政府繼續走著老路，失敗幾乎無可避免。當維持現狀是最危險的選擇時，意味著除了徹底汰舊換新，沒有其他的選擇了。 那麼我們該怎麼做呢？我們要怎樣解決這個問題？最諷刺的是我們只需在自家後院尋找即可，因為美國擁有最具創意、最厲害的人才；這些人在過去 20 年裡已經徹底改變了世界。想像一下，如果申請學生的貸款、處理退伍軍人的福利跟訂購貓糧宅配到府一樣容易，會是什麼景象呢?想像一下，如果有一個簡單的途徑，請來那些曾經顛覆過科技產業的創業家、發明家一起來重整政府的行政系統會是怎樣的情況呢？ 各位朋友，我們接下來聊聊令人振奮、改變政府的全新方式。進入「美國數位化服務」。美國數位化服務是新創公司的新網絡，由不同團隊組成的小組在政府內跨部會組織起來，從根本激進地改變政府。美國數位化服務的使命是要幫助政府為學生、移民、兒童、長者及所有人提供成本低而世界級的數位化服務。基本上我們正試著建立更棒的民治、民享的政府，我們不在乎...（掌聲）謝謝。 (掌聲) 誰不希望政府更棒，對不對? 我們不在乎政治，我們關心的是怎樣使政府做得更好，因為我們只有這個政府。 （掌聲） 可以把我們小組想像為 —很有趣，我們小組有點像是和平志工團加上國防高等研究計劃署再加上海豹突擊隊第六隊，我們就像書呆子的和平志工團，但是不前往瘋狂、有趣、遙遠之地，而是花很多時間在室內用電腦幫助恢復我們民主的架構。 （笑聲） 我們小組 — 美國數位化服務的腳本非常簡單。首先，招募我國最優秀的人才，招募他們來為政府短期服務。這些研發產品及建立公司的人使我國的創新和科技領先全球。其次，我們把這些科技人才與政府裡專職熱忱的公僕配對來創造改變。第三，戰略地將他們部署到政府所提供最關鍵、攸關民生的重要服務。最後，給予他們從機構內部領導人上至總統的大力支持，來轉變、改善這些服務。 如今小組已著手翻轉政府自裡到外的慣行作法。經典的顛覆模式裡有個常見而簡單的模式，是把某個行業裡的標準常規，應用到另一行業而徹底顛覆現狀。試想一下 Airbnb 改變了旅館業原有的常態，也徹底改變了我的寓所。美國數位化服務正在這樣做。我們汲取矽谷及民營企業的大量經驗；他們建立全球規模的數位化服務，以低成本提供怡人的服務；而我們將它應用到政府部門，徹底背離了既有現狀。 好消息是：已開始有了成果。我們明白看到一些早期計畫的成果，例如援救 Healthcare.gov原先偏離的工作。我們第一期就修復了Healthcare.gov，如今正大規模擴展到多個提供人民主要服務的政府部門。讓我花點時間誇耀我們的小組 —這是個集中了超酷狠角色，我所能想像得到的夢幻組合。我們有來自谷歌、臉書、亞馬遜、推特及其他公司的頂尖人才在職，全都自願加入政府工作。令人難以置信的是每個人都熱忱、善良又聰明。再補充一點，我們當中超過一半是女性。 （掌聲） 要理解這策略的最好方法是透過兩個實際的例子，看看它怎樣在現實領域裡運作。很快舉兩個例子。 第一個例子與移民有關。朋友們，這是個典型的申請移民程序。你猜對了 —幾乎全用紙本。在最理想的情況下，整個處理程序約需六至八個月；把紙張運送到千里之外，千里啊，往返六間以上的處理中心。說個小故事：大約十年前，政府認為若把整個系統放上網路，可替納稅人省錢且提供更好的服務，的確是個好主意。典型的政府作業流程運作就此展開。在花費了六年及十二億美元後，產品未能如期交付 —請注意十二億美元的「億」字。在此之際，負責的部門，也就是美國公民及移民服務局，原可停止挹注大量資金到這個失敗的專案裡，遺憾的是，事情經常如此，（註：仍然挹注大量金錢）那就是既有現狀，政府並未停止給錢。局裡具有專業熱忱的公務人員決定站出來呼籲改革。我們部署了一個六人小組；不為多數人所知的是這小組與拯救 Healthcare.gov 的團隊同樣小，只有六個人。他們跳進來肩並肩幫移民局把這數位化專案轉為更現代的商業模式，部署更現代的實踐步驟。用白話說就是把跨越多年、巨大的專案，分拆成一個個小計畫；如此不但可以降低風險，還能每隔幾週就見到實際成效，而不是在黑箱中一等就等好幾年。 結果，我們小組在不到三個月的時間內已經推出第一個成品：I-90 表格，是用來申請補發綠卡的。對於拿移民簽證的申請者來說，補發綠卡是件大事；綠卡是身分證明文件、工作許可證，證明你可以合法留在美國。因此，要等政府花六個月補發綠卡一點也不酷。今天我很高興能夠告訴各位，如今首次可在網路上完成申請補發綠卡的手續，且毋需任何紙本，過程較快、成本更低；對申請人來說是更好的用戶體驗，對公務人員來說也一樣。 （掌聲） 很快舉另一個例子：去年秋天，我們發布了全新的公民入籍考試。假如要申請成為美國公民，就必須通過公民入籍考試，所有經歷過公民入籍考試的申請者都知道過程的壓力相當大，我們小組發布了簡單易用的工具，用的是通俗易懂的語言，來幫助申請者準備，幫助他們放鬆心情，幫助他們更有自信進到繼續追求美國夢的下一步。因為所有這些有關移民的工作都涉及將複雜的過程弄得更人性化。 日前，政府內一個專業熱忱、直接參與的公務員說了讓人印象深刻的話。她說在她服務於政府的整段歲月裡，未曾如此地充滿希望和樂觀。她已任公職長達 30 年。這正是我們努力要創造的希望和改變文化的氛圍。 第二個例子，我想談談退伍軍人和我們正為他們建立的 VA（退伍軍人協會）為他們的服務犧牲而做的有價值的 VA。我很榮幸地說，幾個月前我們剛發布了全新的測試版網站 Vets.gov，Vets.gov 是個簡單易用的網站，所有退伍軍人需用的線上服務全都集中一處。一個網站，而不是數千個網站。網站尚未全部完工但已有相當進展，因為它的設計針對最重要的用戶：退伍軍人們。聽起來理所當然，本該如此；但遺憾的是原先並非如此。大多時候，成品設計的決策由利益相關者所組成的委員會制定，他們雖儘可能為用戶的利益著想，但他們未必是用戶本身。因此，我們的 VA 小組查看數據，和退伍軍人討論，從簡單而小的服務著手，兩項對他們來說最重要的服務：教育福利及傷殘津貼。我很榮幸地說，今天兩者已上線了。而我們小組正持續優化更多的服務，服務會被移來新網站，關閉舊網站。 （掌聲） 對我來說，這是改變在 2016 年的樣子。 當我第一次走出橢圓形辦公室時注意到總統繡在地毯上的一句話，是甘迺迪總統的經典語句：「沒有任何人類命運的問題是人所不能解決的。」真的是如此。我們擁有解決這些問題的工具，擁有整個社會、國家的工具，我們能共同解決問題。是的，是很難，特別難，難在我們必須去爭取，難在我們必須拒絕屈服於來自認定無法改變的壓力。但是經驗告訴我，最值得做的事情往往最難做，因為如果我們不做，誰會去做呢?這是我們的責任，是我們所有人同擔的責任，因為政府不是個抽象的機構或概念，我們的政府就是我們。 （掌聲） 今天，「能否改變」已不再是個問題。問題不在於「我們能嗎？」而是在於「我們會去做嗎？」 你們會嗎？ 謝謝大家。 （掌聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
