Talk	en	zh-tw
hamish_jolly_a_shark_deterrent_wetsuit_and_it_s_not_what_you_think	"Scientific breakthrough, the kind that can potentially save lives, can sometimes be lying right out in the open for us to discover, in the evolved, accumulated body of human anecdote, for example, or in the time-tested adaptations that we observe in the natural world around us. Science starts with observation, but the trick is to identify the patterns and signatures that we might otherwise dismiss as myth or coincidence, isolate them, and test them with scientific rigor. And when we do, the results will often surprise. Western Australia has had a particular problem with shark attacks over the last three years, unfortunately and tragically culminating in five fatal shark attacks in a 10-month period during that time. But Western Australia is not alone in this. The incident of shark engagements on humans is escalating worldwide. And so it's not surprising, perhaps, that in July of this year, Shark Attack Mitigation Systems in collaboration with the University of Western Australia Oceans Institute made an announcement which captured the attention of the worldwide media and of ocean users worldwide, and that was around the development of technology to mitigate or reduce the risk of shark attack based on the science of what sharks can see. And I have for you today the story of that journey, but also the notion that science can be as powerful as a translator as it can be for invention. When we began this process, we were looking, it was about three years ago, and we'd just had the first two fatal shark attacks in Western Australia, and by chance, in a previous role, I happened to be having dinner with Harry Butler. Now Harry Butler, who most Australians would know is a famous naturalist, had spent a lot of time in the marine environment. Harry Butler is a precursor, if you like, to the late Steve Irwin. When I asked him about what the solution to the problem might be, the answer was quite surprising. He said, ""Take a black wetsuit, band it in yellow stripes like a bumblebee, and you'll be mimicking the warning systems of most marine species."" I didn't think about that much at the time, and it wasn't until the next three fatal shark attacks happened, and it caused me to think, maybe there's some merit to this idea. And I turned to the web to see if there might be some clues. And it turns out the web is awash with this sort of evidence that supports this sort of thinking. So biologically, there are plenty of species that display banding or patterns, warning patterns, to either be cryptical in the water or warn against being attacked, not the least of which is the pilot fish which spends a big slab of its life around the business end of a shark. On the human side, Walter Starck, an oceanographer, has been painting his wetsuit since the 1970s, and anthropologically, Pacific island tribes painted themselves in bands in a sea snake ceremony to ward off the shark god. So what's going on here? Is this an idea lying wide out in the open for us to consider and define? We know that sharks use a range of sensors when they engage, particularly for attack, but the sight sensor is the one that they use to identify the target, and particularly in the last number of meters before the attack. It makes sense to pay attention to the biological anecdote because that's time-tested evolution over many millennia. But isn't human anecdote also an evolution of sorts, the idea that there's a kernel of truth thought to be important, passed down from generation to generation, so that it actually ends up shaping human behavior? I wanted to test this idea. I wanted to put some science to this anecdotal evidence, because if science could support this concept, then we might have at least part of the solution to shark attack right under our very nose. To do that, I needed some experts in shark vision and shark neurology, and a worldwide search, again, led to the University of W.A. on the doorstep here, with the Oceans Institute. And professor Nathan Hart and his team had just written a paper which tells us, confirms that predatory sharks see in black and white, or grayscale. So I called up Nathan, a little bit sheepishly, actually, about this idea that maybe we could use these patterns and shapes to produce a wetsuit to try and mitigate the risk of shark attack, and fortunately, he thought that was a good idea. So what ensued is a collaborative bit of research supported by the West Australian State Government. And we did three key things. The first is that we mapped the characteristics, the physical characteristics of the eyes of the three main predatory sharks, so the great white, tiger and bull shark. We did that genetically and we did that anatomically. The next thing we did was to understand, using complex computer modeling, what that eye can see at different depths, distances, light conditions, and water clarity in the ocean. And from there, we were able to pinpoint two key characteristics: what patterns and shapes would present the wearer as hidden or hard to make out in the water, cryptic, and what patterns and shapes might provide the greatest contrast but provide the greatest breakup of profile so that that person wasn't confused for shark prey or shark food. The next thing we needed to do was to convert this into wetsuits that people might actually wear, and to that end, I invited Ray Smith, a surfer, industrial designer, wetsuit designer, and in fact the guy that designed the original Quiksilver logo, to come over and sit with the science team and interpret that science into aesthetic wetsuits that people might actually wear. And here's an example of one of the first drawings. So this is what I call a ""don't eat me"" wetsuit. So this takes that banding idea, takes that banding idea, it's highly visible, provides a highly disruptive profile, and is intended to prevent the shark from considering that you would be ordinary food, and potentially even create confusion for the shark. And this one's configured to go with a surfboard. You can see that dark, opaque panel on the front, and it's particularly better for the surface, where being backlit and providing a silhouette is problematic. Second iteration is the cryptic wetsuit, or the one which attempts to hide the wearer in the water column. There are three panels on this suit, and in any given conditions, one or more of those panels will match the reflective spectra of the water so as to disappear fully or partially, leaving the last panel or panels to create a disruptive profile in the water column. And this one's particularly well-suited to the dive configuration, so when you're deeper under the water. So we knew that we had some really solid science here. We knew, if you wanted to stand out, you needed to look stripy, and we knew if you wanted to be cryptic, you needed to look like this. But the acid test is always going to be, how would sharks really behave in the context of these patterns and shapes. And testing to simulate a person in a wetsuit in the water with a predatory shark in a natural environment is actually a lot harder than you might think. (Laughter) So we have to bait the rig, because we need to get the statistical number of samples through to get the scientific evidence, and by baiting the rig, we're obviously changing shark behavior. We can't put humans in the water. We're ethically precluded from even using humanoid shapes and baiting them up in the water. But nevertheless, we started the testing process in January of this year, initially with tiger sharks and subsequently with great white sharks. The way we did that was to get a perforated drum which is full of bait, wrap it in a neoprene skin, and then run two stereo underwater cameras to watch how the shark actually engages with that rig. And because we use stereo, we can capture all the statistics on how big the shark is, what angle it comes in at, how quickly it leaves, and what its behavior is in an empirical rather than a subjective way. Because we needed to preserve the scientific method, we ran a control rig which was a black neoprene rig just like a normal black wetsuit against the, what we call, SAMS technology rig. And the results were not just exciting, but very encouraging, and today I would like to just give you a snapshot of two of those engagements. So here we've got a four-meter tiger shark engaging the black control rig, which it had encountered about a minute and a half before. Now that exact same shark had engaged, or encountered this SAMS rig, which is the Elude SAMS rig, about eight minutes before, and spent six minutes circling it, hunting for it, looking for what it could smell and sense but not see, and this was the final engagement. Great white sharks are more confident than the tigers, and here you see great white shark engaging a control rig, so a black neoprene wetsuit, and going straight to the bottom, coming up and engaging. In contrast to the SAMS technology rig, this is the banded one, where it's more tactile, it's more investigative, it's more apprehensive, and shows a reluctance to come straight in and go. (Applause) So, it's important for us that all  the testing is done independently, and the University of W.A. is doing the testing. It'll be an ongoing process. It's subject to peer review and subject to publication. It's so important that this concept is led with the science. From the perspective of Shark  Attack Mitigation Systems, we're a biotechnology licensing company, so we don't make wetsuits ourselves. We'll license others to do that. But I thought you might be interested in seeing what SAMS technology looks like embedded in a wetsuit, and to that end, for the first time, live, worldwide — (Laughter) — I can show you what biological adaptation, science and design looks like in real life. So I can welcome Sam, the surfer, from this side. Where are you, Sam? (Applause) And Eduardo. (Applause) Cheers, mate. Cheers. Thanks, gentlemen. (Applause) So what have we done here? Well, to my mind, rather than take a blank sheet and use science as a tool for invention, we've paid attention to the biological evidence, we've put importance to the human anecdotal evidence, and we've used science as a tool for translation, translation of something that was already there into something that we can  use for the benefit of mankind. And it strikes me that this idea of science as a tool for translation rather than invention is one that we can apply much more widely than this in the pursuit of innovation. After all, did the Wright brothers discover manned flight, or did they observe the biological fact of flight and translate that mechanically, replicate it in a way that humans could use? As for the humble wetsuit, who knows what oceanwear will look like in two years' time, in five years' time or in 50 years' time, but with this new thinking, I'm guessing there's a fair chance it won't be pure black. Thank you. (Applause)"	科學突破有機會拯救生命它有時會徹底地敞開大門等待我們去探索並逐步累積形成人類趣事軼聞的本身或者我們可以藉由觀察周圍自然界的物競天擇來理解它科學始於觀察而觀察的訣竅在於辨別那些我們過去曾視為神話或巧合而忽略的圖案和標誌我們將隔離這些線索運用嚴謹的科學方法加以驗證並經常會得到意想不到的結果。 過去三年間，在澳大利亞西部不時發生鯊魚襲擊事件不幸的是，在短短的10個月中，共發生了五起鯊魚襲擊而致命的事件。然而，澳大利亞西部並不是唯一飽受鯊魚困擾的地區鯊魚襲擊人類的問題在全世界不斷惡化或許這已不足為奇就在今年七月鯊魚攻擊緩解系統與西澳大學海洋學會合作並發出通告引起全球媒體和海洋使用者廣泛關注這則通告是有關一項正在發展的新技術藉由鯊魚視覺的理論可減輕被鯊魚襲擊的風險今天，我將與大家分享此項技術的研發歷程以及闡述一個觀念，那就是科學在發明的過程中具有強大的影響力當我們開始這項研究是在三年前 當我們開始這項研究是在三年前當時，在澳大利亞西部首次發生兩起鯊魚襲擊致命事件當時，在澳大利亞西部首次發生兩起鯊魚襲擊致命事件在偶然的機會下，由於之前的工作我碰巧與哈利•巴特勒共進晚餐如今，哈利•巴特勒已是澳大利亞赫赫有名的博物學家他大部分時間都在研究海洋環境如果你願意，也可以說哈利•巴特勒是海洋領域的先驅是史蒂夫•歐文的先輩當我問他該如何解決鯊魚襲擊問題當我問他該如何解決鯊魚襲擊問題他的回答太出人意料了他說，“穿一件黑色泳衣泳衣上印有黃色條紋，看起來就像大黃蜂那麼，你將偽裝成大部分海洋生物的警示系統那時我也沒多想直到接下來發生三起鯊魚襲擊致命事件我不禁想也許這個想法是有價值的我不禁想也許這個想法是有價值的我打開網頁試圖尋找一些線索結果網路上充斥著 支持這種想法的證據在生物界，有大量物種身體上有條紋、圖案或警示圖案有的可以在水中隱身有的可以預防襲擊其中一個具體的例子是舟鰤這種魚在生命裡的大部分時間吸附在鯊魚的尾端在人類方面，海洋學家沃爾特•斯塔克自1970年代以來，一直在設計泳衣圖案而在人類學上太平洋島嶼部落人在海蛇儀式上將身體上繪上條狀圖案以避開鯊神 所以，發生什麼事？這就是所謂的引發我們思考和探索的觀點嗎？這就是所謂的引發我們思考和探索的觀點嗎？眾所周知，鯊魚在水中活動時會使用一系列感覺器官尤其是在發起攻擊時但是牠們主要使用視覺感受器以確定攻擊目標的位置特別是在距離攻擊物件只有數米時從生物學角度研究問題，是在情理之中因為物競天擇論經歷數千年來的驗證但是，人類的進化也屬於生物進化論範疇這一觀點蘊含著真理的精髓至關重要人類經驗經過代代相傳是否這最終也左右著人類的行為？ 我想驗證這一觀點我想將傳聞式的證據更加科學化 我想將傳聞式的證據更加科學化因為如果科學支持這一概念至少我們很可能會找到鯊魚襲擊的部分解決之道不能讓近在眼前的機會溜走為了實現這一點，我需要求助於一些專家這些專家最好諳熟於鯊魚視覺和神經系統並且需要開展一次世界性的研究這又回到了西澳大學海洋研究所這又回到了西澳大學海洋研究所南森•哈特教授和他的團隊那時剛剛發表了一篇論文證實了食肉鯊的視覺系統為黑白模式，或者說灰階模式於是我就打電話給南森事實上，他對這個想法感到有些羞怯也許我們可以利用這些圖案和形狀設計出一套能降低被鯊魚襲擊風險的潛水服幸運的是，他認為這個主意很棒隨後我們的研究獲得了 西澳洲政府的協助我們一起完成了三項重要工作第一項，我們測定特性確定鯊魚眼睛的物理特性研究物件為三種主要的食肉鯊即大白鯊、虎鯊和牛鯊我們進行了遺傳學以及解剖學研究第二項，採用複雜的電腦類比技術弄清鯊魚的眼睛能看到的事物包括在不同深度、距離光線狀況、透明度的海水中通過以上研究，我們能夠確定兩個關鍵特性：什麼樣圖案和形狀的泳衣能夠使穿著者在水中隱身或者比較模糊，難以被鯊魚認出什麼樣的圖案和形狀可能會產生最大的對比度，但是可以極大地分裂人的外觀這樣人就不會被誤當作鯊魚的獵物或鯊魚的食物 第三項，我們需要將這種想法體現在人可以穿著的泳衣中為了達此目的，我邀請了雷•史密斯他是一名衝浪運動員、工業設計師和潛水服設計師事實上，是他設計了最初的Quiksilver徽標很榮幸，他應邀加入科學團隊並將科技引入供人穿著的漂亮的潛水服這裡便是其中一張最初的設計圖我稱其為“別吃我”潛水服這款潛水服沿襲了條紋圖案設計理念這種理念可以使泳衣高度可視製造出一種極度分裂的視覺形象這樣設計的目的是為了防止鯊魚認為你可能是普通的食物甚至可能會攪亂鯊魚的視覺這一款潛水服專門為衝浪運動而設計你可以看到前面深暗、不透明的色塊這樣的表面特別有效因為背光而顯現出來的輪廓會是一個大問題因為背光而顯現出來的輪廓會是一個大問題接下來值得一提的保護色潛水服這種潛水服可以把潛水夫隱藏在水層中這種潛水服可以把潛水夫隱藏在水層中潛水服上鑲有三色散光片無論在何種情形下一片或更多的散光片具有與水層同樣的反射光譜這樣就會全部或部分隱藏而其餘的散光板則可以在水層中形成模糊的輪廓而這一款專門為潛水者設計非常適合在深水中穿著 說到這裡，大家便清楚我們的潛水服建立在嚴謹的科學基礎之上我們清楚，如果想穿出與眾不同的感覺需要採用條紋狀設計如果想要獲得安全隱蔽的保護你需要穿成這樣但是，還要經得起嚴峻的考驗如果鯊魚看到這些圖案和條紋牠們會作何反應讓模擬人穿著潛水服與食肉鯊一起在天然的水下環境中進行測試比你想象的要難得多。（笑聲......） 我們必須以裝備作為誘餌因為我們需要得到樣品的各項資料以此獲得科學證據使用裝備做誘餌顯然改變了鯊魚的行為我們不能把活人放入水中從倫理上講，我們甚至排除把人形物體放入水中做誘餌儘管如此，我們還是於今年一月份著手進行測試最初採用虎鯊做試驗隨後是大白鯊最初採用虎鯊做試驗隨後是大白鯊我們的方法是將一個盛滿誘餌的帶孔鼓包進氯丁橡膠皮內並設置兩架水下立體攝影機以記錄鯊魚是如何撕咬試驗裝備的由於採用了立體攝像機我們就能夠捕獲關於鯊魚的各項資料包含鯊魚以什麼角度攻擊、離開的速度等這樣，鯊魚的行為就可以通過觀察而非主觀的方式判定因為我們需要以科學方法為依據試驗採用的控制裝備由黑色氯丁橡膠製成就像平常的黑色潛水服裝備採用的技術稱之為SAMS技術最終的試驗結果不僅令人興奮更是大大地鼓舞了我們最終的試驗結果不僅令人興奮更是大大地鼓舞了我們現在我將以快照的形式向大家展示兩次鯊魚襲擊時的剪影 這條身長四米的虎鯊正在攻擊黑色控制裝備它第一次發現裝備大約在一分半鐘之前現在畫面中的鯊魚與前面提到的是同一條它首次發現這個Elude SAMS裝備大約在八分鐘之前這只鯊魚與裝備周旋了六分鐘試圖搜尋、嗅出些什麼來但是牠無法看到裝備這是最後一次鯊魚糾纏裝備大白鯊比虎鯊顯得更自信這裡便是一條大白鯊正在糾纏控制裝備黑色的氯丁橡膠潛水服垂直下降又上來了又一次撕咬與採用SAMS技術的裝備相比這套裝備採用條紋狀設計更易感知更便於研究也更易於理解看，鯊魚不情願靠近，轉身離去（掌聲） 所有測試均獨立進行這一點對我們來說尤為重要負責測試的是西澳大學這是一個持續不斷的過程受到同行審查和出版物監督這個概念是有科學根據的這點相當重要這個概念是有科學根據的這點相當重要在鯊魚攻擊緩解系統看來我們是一家生物技術授權公司因此我們本身並不生產潛水服我們授權其它公司來做 也許你有興趣看到採用SAMS技術的潛水服會是什麼樣子，照那樣說來這是第一次在世人面前現場直播（笑聲......）我可以向你展示生物適應科學和設計如何體現在現實生活中下面有請山姆，他是一名衝浪運動員從這邊上來了。山姆，你在哪？（掌聲）還有愛德華多。（掌聲）歡迎你，老兄歡迎！感謝兩位。（掌聲） 我們做了些什麼？嗯，在我看來，我們不是拿一張白紙而是用科學作為發明的工具我們留心於生物學證據重視人類軼事證據我們把科學用作解碼工具將已經存在的事物轉譯成可以造福人類的事物這使我突然發現將科學作為轉譯的工具而非發明的工具的觀點是我們能夠更廣泛應用的而非一味追求創新畢竟，萊特兄弟創造了載人飛機還是他們是靠觀察動物飛行而得到啟示將原理轉譯並複製到機械當中供世人使用的呢？至於這微不足道的潛水服誰曉得在未來它會變成什麼樣子比如說，兩年後、五年後或者五十年以後……但是按照這種新思維我猜，有相當大的可能未來的潛水服不會是純黑色 謝謝！ （掌聲）
