Talk	en	zh-tw
handpring_puppet_co_the_genius_puppetry_behind_war_horse	"Adrian Kohler: Well, we're here today to talk about the evolution of a puppet horse. Basil Jones: But actually we're going to start this evolution with a hyena. AK: The ancestor of the horse. Okay, we'll do something with it. (Laughter) Hahahaha. The hyena is the ancestor of the horse because it was part of a production called ""Faustus in Africa,"" a Handspring Production from 1995, where it had to play draughts with Helen of Troy. This production was directed by South African artist and theater director, William Kentridge. So it needed a very articulate front paw. But, like all puppets, it has other attributes. BJ: One of them is breath, and it kind of breathes. AK: Haa haa haaa. BJ: Breath is really important for us. It's the kind of original movement for any puppet for us onstage. It's the thing that distinguishes the puppet — AK: Oops. BJ: From an actor. Puppets always have to try to be alive. It's their kind of ur-story onstage, that desperation to live. AK: Yeah, it's basically a dead object, as you can see, and it only lives because you make it. An actor struggles to die onstage, but a puppet has to struggle to live. And in a way that's a metaphor for life. BJ: So every moment it's on the stage, it's making the struggle. So we call this a piece of emotional engineering that uses up-to-the-minute 17th century technology — (Laughter) to turn nouns into verbs. AK: Well actually I prefer to say that it's an object constructed out of wood and cloth with movement built into it to persuade you to believe that it has life. BJ: Okay so. AK: It has ears that move passively when the head goes. BJ: And it has these bulkheads made out of plywood, covered with fabric — curiously similar, in fact, to the plywood canoes that Adrian's father used to make when he was a boy in their workshop. AK: In Port Elizabeth, the village outside Port Elizabeth in South Africa. BJ: His mother was a puppeteer. And when we met at art school and fell in love in 1971, I hated puppets. I really thought they were so beneath me. I wanted to become an avant-garde artist — and Punch and Judy was certainly not where I wanted to go. And, in fact, it took about 10 years to discover the Bambara Bamana puppets of Mali in West Africa, where there's a fabulous tradition of puppetry, to learn a renewed, or a new, respect for this art form. AK: So in 1981, I persuaded Basil and some friends of mine to form a puppet company. And 20 years later, miraculously, we collaborated with a company from Mali, the Sogolon Marionette Troupe of Bamako, where we made a piece about a tall giraffe. It was just called ""Tall Horse,"" which was a life-sized giraffe. BJ: And here again, you see the same structure. The bulkheads have now turned into hoops of cane, but it's ultimately the same structure. It's got two people inside it on stilts, which give them the height, and somebody in the front who's using a kind of steering wheel to move that head. AK: The person in the hind legs is also controlling the tail, a bit like the hyena — same mechanism, just a bit bigger. And he's controlling the ear movement. BJ: So this production was seen by Tom Morris of the National Theatre in London. And just around that time, his mother had said, ""Have you seen this book by Michael Morpurgo called 'War Horse'?"" AK: It's about a boy who falls in love with a horse. The horse is sold to the First World War, and he joins up to find his horse. BJ: So Tom gave us a call and said, ""Do you think you could make us a horse for a show to happen at the National Theatre?"" AK: It seemed a lovely idea. BJ: But it had to ride. It had to have a rider. AK: It had to have a rider, and it had to participate in cavalry charges. (Laughter) A play about early 20th century plowing technology and cavalry charges was a little bit of a challenge for the accounting department at the National Theatre in London. But they agreed to go along with it for a while. So we began with a test. BJ: This is Adrian and Thys Stander, who went on to actually design the cane system for the horse, and our next-door neighbor Katherine, riding on a ladder. The weight is really difficult when it's up above your head. AK: And once we put Katherine through that particular brand of hell, we knew that we might be able to make a horse, which could be ridden. So we made a model. This is a cardboard model, a little bit smaller than the hyena. You'll notice that the legs are plywood legs and the canoe structure is still there. BJ: And the two manipulators are inside. But we didn't realize at the time that we actually needed a third manipulator, because we couldn't manipulate the neck from inside and walk the horse at the same time. AK: We started work on the prototype after the model was approved, and the prototype took a bit longer than we anticipated. We had to throw out the plywood legs and make new cane ones. And we had a crate built for it. It had to be shipped to London. We were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in Cape Town, and it got to midnight and we hadn't done that yet. BJ: So we got a camera, and we posed the puppet in various galloping stances. And we sent it off to the National Theatre, hoping that they believed that we created something that worked. (Laughter) AK: A month later, we were there in London with this big box and a studio full of people about to work with us. BJ: About 40 people. AK: We were terrified. We opened the lid, we took the horse out, and it did work; it walked and it was able to be ridden. Here I have an 18-second clip of the very first walk of the prototype. This is in the National Theatre studio, the place where they cook new ideas. It had by no means got the green light yet. The choreographer, Toby Sedgwick, invented a beautiful sequence where the baby horse, which was made out of sticks and bits of twigs, grew up into the big horse. And Nick Starr, the director of the National Theatre, saw that particular moment, he was standing next to me — he nearly wet himself. And so the show was given the green light. And we went back to Cape Town and redesigned the horse completely. Here is the plan. (Laughter) And here is our factory in Cape Town where we make horses. You can see quite a lot of skeletons in the background there. The horses are completely handmade. There is very little 20th century technology in them. We used a bit of laser cutting on the plywood and some of the aluminum pieces. But because they have to be light and flexible, and each one of them is different, they can't be mass-produced, unfortunately. So here are some half-finished horses ready to be worked in London. And now we would like to introduce you to Joey. Joey boy, you there? Joey. (Applause) (Applause) Joey. Joey, come here. No, no, I haven't got it. He's got it; it's in his pocket. BJ: Joey. AK: Joey, Joey, Joey, Joey. Come here. Stand here where people can see you. Move around. Come on. I'd just like to describe — I won't talk too loud. He might get irritated. Here, Craig is working the head. He has bicycle brake cables going down to the head control in his hand. Each one of them operates either an ear, separately, or the head, up and down. But he also controls the head directly by using his hand. The ears are obviously a very important emotional indicator of the horse. When they point right back, the horse is fearful or angry, depending upon what's going on in front of him, around him. Or, when he's more relaxed, the head comes down and the ears listen, either side. Horses' hearing is very important. It's almost more important than their eyesight. Over here, Tommy's got what you call the heart position. He's working the leg. You see the string tendon from the hyena, the hyena's front leg, automatically pulls the hoop up. (Laughter) Horses are so unpredictable. (Laughter) The way a hoof comes up with a horse immediately gives you the feeling that it's a convincing horse action. The hind legs have got the same action. BJ: And Mikey also has, in his fingers, the ability to move the tail from left to right, and up and down with the other hand. And together, there's quite a complex possibility of tail expression. AK: You want to say something about the breathing? BJ: We had a big challenge with breathing. Adrian thought that he was going to have to split the chest of the puppet in two and make it breathe like that — because that's how a horse would breathe, with an expanded chest. But we realized that, if that were to be happening, you wouldn't, as an audience, see the breath. So he made a channel in here, and the chest moves up and down in that channel. So it's anti-naturalistic really, the up and down movement, but it feels like breath. And it's very, very simple because all that happens is that the puppeteer breathes with his knees. AK: Other emotional stuff. If I were to touch the horse here on his skin, the heart puppeteer can shake the body from inside and get the skin to quiver. You'll notice, of course, that the puppet is made out of cane lines. And I would like you to believe that it was an aesthetic choice, that I was making a three-dimensional drawing of a horse that somehow moves in space. But of course, it was the cane is light, the cane is flexible, the cane is durable and the cane is moldable. And so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane. The skin itself is made out of a see-through nylon mesh, which, if the lighting designer wants the horse to almost disappear, she can light the background and the horse becomes ghostlike. You see the skeletal structure of it. Or if you light it from above, it becomes more solid. Again, that was a practical consideration. The guys inside the horse have to be able to see out. They have to be able to act along with their fellow actors in the production. And it's very much an in-the-moment activity that they're engaged in. It's three heads making one character. But now we would like you to put Joey through some paces. And plant. (Whinny) Thank you. And now just — (Applause) All the way from sunny California we have Zem Joaquin who's going to ride the horse for us. (Applause) (Applause) (Music) So we would like to stress that the performance you see in the horse is three guys who have studied horse behavior incredibly thoroughly. BJ: Not being able to talk to one another while they're onstage because they're mic'd. The sound that that very large chest makes, of the horse — the whinnying and the nickering and everything — that starts usually with one performer, carries on with a second person and ends with a third. AK: Mikey Brett from Leicestershire. (Applause) Mikey Brett, Craig, Leo, Zem Joaquin and Basil and me. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	"亞德里恩 科勒：我們今天來是要談論木偶馬的演化 貝索 瓊斯：事實上，我們要用鬣狗來開始說明 亞德里恩 科勒：鬣狗也就是木偶戰馬的祖先好，那現在我們開始表演（笑聲）哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈這隻鬣狗是木偶馬的先祖因為他是一個叫做""非洲的浮士德""的製作的一部分是漢斯普林公司在1995年的作品用來當木馬屠城記的戲劇草稿這部作品是由一個南非的藝術家和導演指導威廉肯崔吉這隻鬣狗需要非常靈敏的前爪但就像所有木偶一樣，他也有其他的特性 貝索 瓊斯：其中之一就是呼吸他能呼吸 亞德里恩 科勒：（呼吸聲） 貝索 瓊斯：呼吸對我們而言是很重要的這是對於對於所有在舞台上的木偶最基本的動作這是用來區分木偶 ...... 亞德里恩 科勒：啊 貝索 瓊斯：和演員的一點木偶總是試圖要活過來這是他們在舞台上的故事他們對生命的渴望 亞德里恩 科勒：就像大家看到的，這其實就是一個沒有生命的物體只有在你使他活過來時他才會有生命演員努力在台上演死去木偶則努力想要活起來這也是一種生命的隱喻 貝索 瓊斯：所以任何時刻只要在台上，木偶都努力活起來我們就叫他一個情感工程使用了最新的17世紀的技術（笑聲）來把名詞變成動詞 事實上我比較喜歡說這是一個物體由木頭和布所做成並且有動作植入其中來說服你相信他有生命 貝索 瓊斯：好的所以 亞德里恩 科勒：當他的頭轉動的時候耳朵可以跟著擺動 貝索 瓊斯：而且他有這些隔板是由膠合板做成的覆蓋上布料事實上就和亞德里恩父親孩童時在工作室所做的膠合板獨木舟出奇的相似 亞德里恩 科勒：在南非伊麗沙伯港，港外的小村莊 貝索 瓊斯：他的母親是個木偶表演者當1971年我們在藝術學校相遇並且相愛時我非常討厭木偶我真的覺得他們對我而言太低等了我想成為一個前衛的藝術家龐奇與茱蒂（英國傳統木偶劇）絕不是我想做的事實上，我大概10年之後 才發現西非國家馬利的特有布偶那裡有驚人的木偶製作傳統讓我學到了更新的，或者全新的對於這種藝術形式的尊敬 亞德里恩 科勒：所以在1981年，我說服貝索和我的一些朋友成立了一個木偶公司20年後，出乎意料地我們和馬利的一間公司合作巴馬科的索格隆木馬團我們做了一個很高的長頸鹿木偶他被稱做""高馬""，大小就和真的長頸鹿一樣 貝索 瓊斯：在這裡，你又可以看到同樣的結構只是隔板改用藤圈做成但終究是一樣的結構他需要兩個踩著高蹺的人在裡面高蹺給他們所需要的高度還有另一個人在前面用類似方向盤的東西來移動頭部 亞德里恩 科勒：一個人在後腿同時控制尾巴，這有點像鬣狗同樣的機械結構，只是比較大另外他還控制耳朵的移動 貝索 瓊斯：這個製作被倫敦國家劇團的湯姆莫里斯看到了而且差不多在那時候他的母親說你有沒有看過一本麥克莫波格寫的書叫做""戰馬""？ 亞德里恩 科勒：這是關於一個男孩愛上一匹馬的故事這批馬被賣去參加第一次世界大戰男孩為了找到這批馬就參加了戰爭 貝索 瓊斯：所以湯姆就打了通電話給我們說""你們覺得你們能不能為我們做出一匹馬在國家劇院表演？"" 亞德里恩 科勒：這似乎是個極好的主意 貝索 瓊斯：但是這匹馬要可以騎，他需要扛起一個騎士 亞德里恩 科勒：他需要一個騎士他還得加入騎兵隊的進攻（笑聲）對於倫敦的國家劇院來說一個關於二十世紀早期的耕地技術和騎兵隊進攻的戲，這樣的費用是有點超支了但是他們同意先做一陣子再說所以我們就開始測試 貝索 瓊斯：這是亞德里恩和希斯斯丹德他們是戰馬藤圈系統的設計者我們的鄰居凱瑟琳在梯子上這樣的重量在懸在頭頂的時候其實是很重的 亞德里恩 科勒：一旦我們讓凱瑟琳經歷了這個特別的煉獄我們就知道我們應該可以製作一匹馬，一匹可以騎的馬所以我們做了一個模型這是個厚紙板模型這比鬣狗小了一點你們會注意到這些腿是膠合板做的也使用了獨木舟的結構 貝索 瓊斯：兩個操縱者在裡面但是當時我們沒有意識到事實上我們需要第三個操縱者因為我們沒辦法從裡面控制脖子同時又讓馬行走 亞德里恩 科勒：在設計模型通過之後我們開始製作雛形製造這個雛形花的時間比我們預期的要長我們必須丟棄膠合板的腿，用藤條製作新的而且我們還要為他製作一個大箱子這匹馬需要被運到倫敦我們原本要在開普敦的街上試跑但一直忙到半夜所以我們一直都沒這麼做 貝索 瓊斯：所以我們拿照相機把木馬擺出各種奔跑的姿勢然後把照片寄到國家劇院希望他們相信我們製作出的這個東西是可以用的（笑聲） 亞德里恩 科勒：一個月之後，我們帶著這個大箱子到達倫敦見到一整個將要和我們合作的工作室的人員 大概有四十個人 亞德里恩 科勒：我們很害怕我們打開蓋子，把馬拿出來他真的能動，他能走也能騎這裡我有一個十八秒的影像是這個雛形真正第一次行走這是在國家劇院的劇場是他們想出新題材的地方當時我們還沒有通過編舞者，陶比席德維克設計了一套優美的動作這個小馬整個由樹枝和細棍做成的長大變成了壯馬國家劇院的導演尼克史塔爾看到了這個特別的片段，他站在我旁邊，他差點要尿濕褲子了就這樣這個表演就通過了然後我們回到開普敦，重新設計了整匹馬這就是我們的計畫 （笑聲） 這是我們在開普敦的工廠我們製作馬的地方你可以看到在背景裡有很多的骨架這些馬都是手工製作的很少有用到二十世紀的科技我們用一點鐳射技術切割膠合板和一些鋁片但是因為這些馬必須要很輕、很靈活而且每一匹都要不一樣所以很不幸，他們不能被批量生產所以這裡有一些半成品的馬需要在倫敦繼續加工現在我們要向大家介紹喬依小喬依，你在哪裡？喬依（掌聲）（掌聲）喬依喬依，來這裡不，不，我這裡沒有（食物）他口袋裡有 貝索 瓊斯：喬依亞德里恩 科勒：喬依，喬依，喬依，喬依來這裡，站在這裡大家才看得到你動一動，來吧我想和大家說明一下我不會說太大聲，不然他可能會被激怒這裡，克雷格在控制他的頭他用的是腳踏車的剎車線每條都連接到他手裡握著的頭部控制中心每一條分別控制一邊耳朵或是頭部的上下移動他也用他的手直接控制馬的頭顯然地，耳朵是表現馬兒情緒很重要的方式當耳朵向後指馬是害怕或者生氣的取決於馬前面或周圍發生什麼事或者當馬放鬆的時候，他的頭就會垂下來耳朵會聽，指向兩邊馬的聽覺是非常重要的幾乎比他們的視力還要重要看這裡湯姆掌握了所謂的心臟部位他負責操控馬腿看這裡的弦腱像在鬣狗的前腿裡一樣自動把環拉起來（笑聲）馬是不可預測的（笑聲）馬抬蹄的方式馬上就讓你覺得這是真的馬的動作後腳也有一樣的動作 貝索 瓊斯：另外麥奇還有在他的手指裡控制馬尾巴的能力從左到右另外一手控制上下這些合在一起，就是非常複雜的各種尾巴“表情”的組合 亞德里恩 科勒：你想要說說關於呼吸的部分嗎 貝索 瓊斯：呼吸方面我們遇到了很大的挑戰亞德里恩認為他必須要把木偶的胸切成兩半來這樣呼吸因為這是真的馬呼吸的樣子，胸部擴張但是我們發現如果這樣做身為一個觀眾，你們是看不到他呼吸的所以他在這裡做了一個通道胸腔就會在這個通道裡上下動這個上下移動的動作是違反自然的但感覺上很像呼吸而且這非常非常的簡單因為要馬呼吸只需要操控的人膝蓋的運動 亞德里恩 科勒：另一個有關馬的情緒的事情。如果我從這裡摸馬的皮膚在核心操控木馬的人可以從裡面搖動馬的身體讓皮膚顫動當然，你會發現這個木偶是由藤條做成的而且我希望你們能相信這是個審美上的選擇就是這是一個我畫的馬的三維立體圖這個圖不知怎的就在空間裡動起來的當然，這裡用的藤蔓很輕藤蔓有彈性、很耐用可塑性也很強用藤蔓製作還有一個很實際的考慮 就是皮膚本身是用透明的尼龍網製成的如果燈光師想讓馬幾乎消失在舞台上他可以打亮背景讓馬變成幽靈一般你可以看見馬的骨骼結構或者如果你從下面打燈，他會變得更厚實這又是一個很實際的考量馬裡面的人必須要可以看到外面他們必須能夠反應和表演中其他演員演出對手戲他們所從事的這項活動是非常注重及時性的三個人來呈現這一個角色 現在我要你們讓喬依動起來然後停住 （馬嘶聲） 謝謝現在（掌聲）從美國加州遠道而來的森姆 喬安坤將要為我們騎乘這匹馬 （掌聲） （掌聲） （音樂） 我們想強調的是你們看到在馬裡面表演的是三個人他們都徹底仔細研究過馬的行為 貝索 瓊斯：他們在台上時是不能互相交談的因為他們都配戴著麥克風馬的胸腔發出的聲音輕聲嘶鳴或大聲嘶吼等等的通常都是由一個表演者發出的然後第二個人才接上去第三個人結束 亞德里恩 科勒：麥奇 布瑞特，來自英國列斯特郡（掌聲）麥奇 布瑞特、克雷格、里奧森姆 喬安坤、貝索和我 （掌聲） 謝謝，謝謝 （掌聲）"
