Talk	en	zh-tw
hans_rosling_the_truth_about_hiv	(Applause) AIDS was discovered 1981; the virus, 1983. These Gapminder bubbles show you how the spread of the virus was in 1983 in the world, or how we estimate that it was. What we are showing here is — on this axis here, I'm showing percent of infected adults. And on this axis, I'm showing dollars per person in income. And the size of these bubbles, the size of the bubbles here, that shows how many are infected in each country, and the color is the continent. Now, you can see United States, in 1983, had a very low percentage infected, but due to the big population, still a sizable bubble. There were quite many people infected in the United States. And, up there, you see Uganda. They had almost five percent infected, and quite a big bubble in spite of being a small country, then. And they were probably the most infected country in the world. Now, what has happened? Now you have understood the graph and now, in the next 60 seconds, we will play the HIV epidemic in the world. But first, I have a new invention here. (Laughter) I have solidified the beam of the laser pointer. (Laughter) (Applause) So, ready, steady, go! First, we have the fast rise in Uganda and Zimbabwe. They went upwards like this. In Asia, the first country to be heavily infected was Thailand — they reached one to two percent. Then, Uganda started to turn back, whereas Zimbabwe skyrocketed, and some years later South Africa had a terrible rise of HIV frequency. Look, India got many infected, but had a low level. And almost the same happens here. See, Uganda coming down, Zimbabwe coming down, Russia went to one percent. In the last two to three years, we have reached a steady state of HIV epidemic in the world. 25 years it took. But, steady state doesn't mean that things are getting better, it's just that they have stopped getting worse. And it has — the steady state is, more or less, one percent of the adult world population is HIV-infected. It means 30 to 40 million people, the whole of California — every person, that's more or less what we have today in the world. Now, let me make a fast replay of Botswana. Botswana — upper middle-income country in southern Africa, democratic government, good economy, and this is what happened there. They started low, they skyrocketed, they peaked up there in 2003, and now they are down. But they are falling only slowly, because in Botswana, with good economy and governance, they can manage to treat people. And if people who are infected are treated, they don't die of AIDS. These percentages won't come down because people can survive 10 to 20 years. So there's some problem with these metrics now. But the poorer countries in Africa, the low-income countries down here, there the rates fall faster, of the percentage infected, because people still die. In spite of PEPFAR, the generous PEPFAR, all people are not reached by treatment, and of those who are reached by treatment in the poor countries, only 60 percent are left on treatment after two years. It's not realistic with lifelong treatment for everyone in the poorest countries. But it's very good that what is done is being done. But focus now is back on prevention. It is only by stopping the transmission that the world will be able to deal with it. Drugs is too costly — had we had the vaccine, or when we will get the vaccine, that's something more effective — but the drugs are very costly for the poor. Not the drug in itself, but the treatment and the care which is needed around it. So, when we look at the pattern, one thing comes out very clearly: you see the blue bubbles and people say HIV is very high in Africa. I would say, HIV is very different in Africa. You'll find the highest HIV rate in the world in African countries, and yet you'll find Senegal, down here — the same rate as United States. And you'll find Madagascar, and you'll find a lot of African countries about as low as the rest of the world. It's this terrible simplification that there's one Africa and things go on in one way in Africa. We have to stop that. It's not respectful, and it's not very clever to think that way. (Applause) I had the fortune to live and work for a time in the United States. I found out that Salt Lake City and San Francisco were different. (Laughter) And so it is in Africa — it's a lot of difference. So, why is it so high? Is it war? No, it's not. Look here. War-torn Congo is down there — two, three, four percent. And this is peaceful Zambia, neighboring country — 15 percent. And there's good studies of the refugees coming out of Congo — they have two, three percent infected, and peaceful Zambia — much higher. There are now studies clearly showing that the wars are terrible, that rapes are terrible, but this is not the driving force for the high levels in Africa. So, is it poverty? Well if you look at the macro level, it seems more money, more HIV. But that's very simplistic, so let's go down and look at Tanzania. I will split Tanzania in five income groups, from the highest income to the lowest income, and here we go. The ones with the highest income, the better off — I wouldn't say rich — they have higher HIV. The difference goes from 11 percent down to four percent, and it is even bigger among women. There's a lot of things that we thought, that now, good research, done by African institutions and researchers together with the international researchers, show that that's not the case. So, this is the difference within Tanzania. And, I can't avoid showing Kenya. Look here at Kenya. I've split Kenya in its provinces. Here it goes. See the difference within one African country — it goes from very low level to very high level, and most of the provinces in Kenya is quite modest. So, what is it then? Why do we see this extremely high levels in some countries? Well, it is more common with multiple partners, there is less condom use, and there is age-disparate sex — that is, older men tend to have sex with younger women. We see higher rates in younger women than younger men in many of these highly affected countries. But where are they situated? I will swap the bubbles to a map. Look, the highly infected are four percent of all population and they hold 50 percent of the HIV-infected. HIV exists all over the world. Look, you have bubbles all over the world here. Brazil has many HIV-infected. Arab countries not so much, but Iran is quite high. They have heroin addiction and also prostitution in Iran. India has many because they are many. Southeast Asia, and so on. But, there is one part of Africa — and the difficult thing is, at the same time, not to make a uniform statement about Africa, not to come to simple ideas of why it is like this, on one hand. On the other hand, try to say that this is not the case, because there is a scientific consensus about this pattern now. UNAIDS have done good data available, finally, about the spread of HIV. It could be concurrency. It could be some virus types. It could be that there is other things which makes transmission occur in a higher frequency. After all, if you are completely healthy and you have heterosexual sex, the risk of infection in one intercourse is one in 1,000. Don't jump to conclusions now on how to behave tonight and so on. (Laughter) But — and if you are in an unfavorable situation, more sexually transmitted diseases, it can be one in 100. But what we think is that it could be concurrency. And what is concurrency? In Sweden, we have no concurrency. We have serial monogamy. Vodka, New Year's Eve — new partner for the spring. Vodka, Midsummer's Eve — new partner for the fall. Vodka — and it goes on like this, you know? And you collect a big number of exes. And we have a terrible chlamydia epidemic — terrible chlamydia epidemic which sticks around for many years. HIV has a peak three to six weeks after infection and therefore, having more than one partner in the same month is much more dangerous for HIV than others. Probably, it's a combination of this. And what makes me so happy is that we are moving now towards fact when we look at this. You can get this chart, free. We have uploaded UNAIDS data on the Gapminder site. And we hope that when we act on global problems in the future we will not only have the heart, we will not only have the money, but we will also use the brain. Thank you very much. (Applause)	"(掌聲)愛滋病是在1981年被發現的，而HIV病毒是在1983年這張 Gapminder 氣泡圖會顯示於1983年病毒在世界各地擴散的情況或者說是我們對它的估計今天我們要展示的是這條（Y）軸，是被感染的成年人比例而這條（X）軸，是人均收入（美元）而這些氣泡的大小代表每個國家被感染的人數而顏色代表不同洲分 現在來看看1983年的美國當時的感染率還非常低但因為人口基數大，這個氣泡還是很大也就是說在美國有很多人被感染在上面是烏干達感染率接近百分之五雖然國家不大，但氣泡也不小他們可能是全世界感染率最高的國家為什麼會這樣？我想大家現在都能看明白這個圖表了在接下來的60秒裏我們會展示愛滋病疫情在世界各地蔓延的過程 但在這之前，我要先拿出我的新發明(笑聲)我把鐳射筆的光線變成固體了 (笑聲) (掌聲) 好，準備，坐穩了，開始！最開始是烏干達和辛巴威的感染率飆升像這樣一直上升在亞洲，第一個受嚴重感染的國家是泰國感染率達到百分之一至二然後烏干達開始回落而辛巴威一飛沖天幾年後南非的HIV感染率急劇上升看這裏，印度也有很多人被感染但整體比率還很低這裏也一樣看，烏干達下降了，辛巴威下降了俄羅斯上升到百分之一 在過去的兩三年裏世界HIV疫情進入了穩定期這個穩定期需時25年但穩定並不意味著情況開始好轉只是不再惡化而已穩定情況就是說世界成年人口的百分之一感染了HIV病毒也就是說大約3000萬到4000萬人相當於加利福尼亞州的所有人口這就是現在全世界愛滋病患者的大概數量 現在我們再快速看一下波札那的情況波札那是為於非洲南部中上收入國家民主政府，經濟也不俗來看看這裏的情況他們的感染率一開始很低，然後火箭般竄升在2003年達到頂峰現在有所下降但下降的速度很慢因為波札那的經濟政治環境不錯可以治療愛滋病患者感染者只要接受治療就不會輕易死於愛滋病所以這個比例不會下降因為病毒帶菌者可以繼續活上10年到20年所以這個計算方法現在有點問題但一些非洲的窮國，像下面的這些低收入國家感染比例下降得很快因為感染者在不斷死亡儘管有慷慨的""總統愛滋病緊急防治救援計畫""（PEPFAR）卻不是所有人都能得到治療在這些貧窮國家中，即使是受到治療的那些病人兩年後也只剩下60%的人還在治療計畫中對窮國中的每一個患者進行終身治療是不切實際的但畢竟這些工作已經很好 但現在的關注點已經回到了防預工作上只有阻止傳播我們的世界才會有機會對抗愛滋病藥物太貴了 — 要是有疫苗就好了或者知道什麼時候會有疫苗，這樣會有效得多但藥物對窮人來說太貴了並不是藥物本身貴，而是整個治療過程以及所需的看護很貴所以，我們看看整個圖表有一件事非常清楚：你看那些藍色的氣泡人們會說非洲的HIV比率很高我必須說，HIV在非洲也是非常不同的你們會發現世界上最高的HIV感染率是在非洲國家但這裏也有塞內加爾，在下面感染率和美國一樣也有馬達加斯加而其他很多非洲國家和世界其他地方的感染率一樣低所以認為非洲的所有事情都是一個樣將非洲簡單地同一化是很可怕的我們不能再這麼想這麼想很不尊重他們也很不明智 (掌聲) 我有幸在美國生活和工作過一段時間我發現鹽湖城和舊金山就很不一樣(笑聲)非洲也是一樣 — 各地有很多不同那，為什麼比率會這麼高呢？是因為戰爭的關係？不是的。看這裏飽經戰火的剛果在下面 — 百分之二、三、四的樣子而和平的鄰國赞比亚 — 百分之十五有人研究過剛果難民的感染率也在百分之二到三之間而和平的赞比亚要高得多現在有研究明確岀指出雖然有很多戰爭，很多強暴事件發生但這並不是非洲HIV病毒高比率的主要原因 所以，是因為貧窮嗎？如果我們從宏觀角度看看好像錢越多，HIV就越多但這過於簡單化了我們來仔細看看坦桑尼亞的情況我把坦桑尼亞人按收入分成五組從最高收入到最低收入我們來看看收入最高的人，處境較好的人，我不會叫他們富人他們的HIV感染率更高感染率最高有百分之十一，最低的到百分之四婦女中這個差距更大許多我們以前的想法，被現在許多由非洲及國際機構和研究人員所做的研究證實是錯誤的這是坦桑尼亞的例子 我必須再舉一下肯亞的例子來看看肯亞我按省份劃分肯亞來看看在同一個非洲國家裏的差別從很低的水平到很高的水平而肯亞大部分的省份感染率並不高 那到底是什麼原因呢？為什麼有些國家的感染率那麼高？其中因素包括有多個性伴侶，或不愛用避孕套或有年齡差異大的性愛因素就是大年紀男人喜歡跟年輕女人做愛所以我們發現在很多感染率較高的國家裏年輕女性的感染率要高於年輕男性 那地理上的分佈又是怎麼樣呢？我把氣泡轉移到地圖上看，感染率高的國家佔世界人口的百分之四但卻有全球百分之五十的HIV感染者HIV在世界各地都存在看，氣泡分佈在所有地方巴西有很多HIV感染者阿拉伯國家不多，但伊朗很高伊朗的問題是海洛因和賣淫印度有很多因為它本身人口多以及東南亞等等但非洲有一部分 —同時要注意的是不要說到非洲就想到整個非洲一方面不要認為出現現在的情況是因為單一的原因 另一方面要承認現在的情況很嚴重現在科學界已經對這個分佈圖達成了共識UNAIDS終於提供了HIV傳播的詳細數據可能是由於多重性伴也可能是某些病毒種類也可能是有別的原因使病毒傳播到這樣高的比例不管怎樣，如果你完全健康並且是異性戀每次性交被感染的機會是千分之一但別輕易得出結論今晚就去胡混(笑聲)但是，如果你處於不利情況通過性傳染的疾病機會可以達到百分之一 但我們認為多個性伴可能是主要原因什麼是多重性伴侶？在瑞典我們沒有多重性伴侶我們是連續的單一性伴侶喝伏特加，除夕夜 — 春天有新性伴了喝伏特加，仲夏夜 — 秋天有新性伴了喝伏特加 — 繼續這樣子，你們明白了嗎？這樣你會有很多“前”男、女朋友有一種可怕的衣原體傳染病這種可怕的衣原體傳染病持續多年而HIV是在感染後的三到六周有一個活動高峰因此，在一個月裏有多個性夥伴對HIV傳播是特別危險的很可能，這是原因之一 還有令我高興的是,當我們在考慮這些因素的時候我們也不斷地向真相邁步大家可以免費取得這份圖表我們把UNAIDS的資料上傳到Gapminder.org並且希望將來在解決全球性問題時我們不僅帶著一顆心不僅帶著錢也多用腦子 謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
