Talk	en	zh-tw
hans_rosling_religions_and_babies	"I'm going to talk about religion. But it's a broad and very delicate subject, so I have to limit myself. And therefore I will limit myself to only talk about the links between religion and sexuality. (Laughter) This is a very serious talk. So I will talk of what I remember as the most wonderful. It's when the young couple whisper, ""Tonight we are going to make a baby."" My talk will be about the impact of religions on the number of babies per woman. This is indeed important, because everyone understands that there is some sort of limit on how many people we can be on this planet. And there are some people who say that the world population is growing like this — three billion in 1960, seven billion just last year — and it will continue to grow because there are religions that stop women from having few babies, and it may continue like this. To what extent are these people right? When I was born there was less than one billion children in the world, and today, 2000, there's almost two billion. What has happened since, and what do the experts predict will happen with the number of children during this century? This is a quiz. What do you think? Do you think it will decrease to one billion? Will it remain the same and be two billion by the end of the century? Will the number of children increase each year up to 15 years, or will it continue in the same fast rate and be four billion children up there? I will tell you by the end of my speech. But now, what does religion have to do with it? When you want to classify religion, it's more difficult than you think. You go to Wikipedia and the first map you find is this. It divides the world into Abrahamic religions and Eastern religion, but that's not detailed enough. So we went on and we looked in Wikipedia, we found this map. But that subdivides Christianity, Islam and Buddhism into many subgroups, which was too detailed. Therefore at Gapminder we made our own map, and it looks like this. Each country's a bubble. The size is the population — big China, big India here. And the color now is the majority religion. It's the religion where more than 50 percent of the people say that they belong. It's Eastern religion in India and China and neighboring Asian countries. Islam is the majority religion all the way from the Atlantic Ocean across the Middle East, Southern Europe and through Asia all the way to Indonesia. That's where we find Islamic majority. And Christian majority religions, we see in these countries. They are blue. And that is most countries in America and Europe, many countries in Africa and a few in Asia. The white here are countries which cannot be classified, because one religion does not reach 50 percent or there is doubt about the data or there's some other reason. So we were careful with that. So bear with our simplicity now when I take you over to this shot. This is in 1960. And now I show the number of babies per woman here: two, four or six — many babies, few babies. And here the income per person in comparable dollars. The reason for that is that many people say you have to get rich first before you get few babies. So low income here, high income there. And indeed in 1960, you had to be a rich Christian to have few babies. The exception was Japan. Japan here was regarded as an exception. Otherwise it was only Christian countries. But there was also many Christian countries that had six to seven babies per woman. But they were in Latin America or they were in Africa. And countries with Islam as the majority religion, all of them almost had six to seven children per woman, irregardless of the income level. And all the Eastern religions except Japan had the same level. Now let's see what has happened in the world. I start the world, and here we go. Now 1962 — can you see they're getting a little richer, but the number of babies per woman is falling? Look at China. They're falling fairly fast. And all of the Muslim majority countries across the income are coming down, as do the Christian majority countries in the middle income range. And when we enter into this century, you'll find more than half of mankind down here. And by 2010, we are actually 80 percent of humans who live in countries with about two children per woman. (Applause) It's a quite amazing development which has happened. (Applause) And these are countries from United States here, with $40,000 per capita, France, Russia, Iran, Mexico, Turkey, Algeria, Indonesia, India and all the way to Bangladesh and Vietnam, which has less than five percent of the income per person of the United States and the same amount of babies per woman. I can tell you that the data on the number of children per woman is surprisingly good in all countries. We get that from the census data. It's not one of these statistics which is very doubtful. So what we can conclude is you don't have to get rich to have few children. It has happened across the world. And then when we look at religions, we can see that the Eastern religions, indeed there's not one single country with a majority of that religion that has more than three children. Whereas with Islam as a majority religion and Christianity, you see countries all the way. But there's no major difference. There's no major difference between these religions. There is a difference with income. The countries which have many babies per woman here, they have quite low income. Most of them are in sub-Saharan Africa. But there are also countries here like Guatemala, like Papua New Guinea, like Yemen and Afghanistan. Many think that Afghanistan here and Congo, which have suffered severe conflicts, that they don't have fast population growth. It's the other way around. In the world today, it's the countries that have the highest mortality rates that have the fastest population growth. Because the death of a child is compensated by one more child. These countries have six children per woman. They have a sad death rate of one to two children per woman. But 30 years from now, Afghanistan will go from 30 million to 60 million. Congo will go from 60 to 120. That's where we have the fast population growth. And many think that these countries are stagnant, but they are not. Let me compare Senegal, a Muslim dominated country, with a Christian dominated country, Ghana. I take them backwards here to their independence, when they were up here in the beginning of the 1960s. Just look what they have done. It's an amazing improvement, from seven children per woman, they've gone all the way down to between four and five. It's a tremendous improvement. So what does it take? Well we know quite well what is needed in these countries. You need to have children to survive. You need to get out of the deepest poverty so children are not of importance for work in the family. You need to have access to some family planning. And you need the fourth factor, which perhaps is the most important factor. But let me illustrate that fourth factor by looking at Qatar. Here we have Qatar today, and there we have Bangladesh today. If I take these countries back to the years of their independence, which is almost the same year — '71, '72 — it's a quite amazing development which had happened. Look at Bangladesh and Qatar. With so different incomes, it's almost the same drop in number of babies per woman. And what is the reason in Qatar? Well I do as I always do. I went to the statistical authority of Qatar, to their webpage — It's a very good webpage. I recommend it — and I looked up — oh yeah, you can have lots of fun here — and provided free of charge, I found Qatar's social trends. Very interesting. Lots to read. I found fertility at birth, and I looked at total fertility rate per woman. These are the scholars and experts in the government agency in Qatar, and they say the most important factors are: ""Increased age at first marriage, increased educational level of Qatari woman and more women integrated in the labor force."" I couldn't agree more. Science couldn't agree more. This is a country that indeed has gone through a very, very interesting modernization. So what it is, is these four: Children should survive, children shouldn't be needed for work, women should get education and join the labor force and family planning should be accessible. Now look again at this. The average number of children in the world is like in Colombia — it's 2.4 today. There are countries up here which are very poor. And that's where family planning, better child survival is needed. I strongly recommend Melinda Gates' last TEDTalk. And here, down, there are many countries which are less than two children per woman. So when I go back now to give you the answer of the quiz, it's two. We have reached peak child. The number of children is not growing any longer in the world. We are still debating peak oil, but we have definitely reached peak child. And the world population will stop growing. The United Nations Population Division has said it will stop growing at 10 billion. But why do they grow if the number of children doesn't grow? Well I will show you here. I will use these card boxes in which your notebooks came. They are quite useful for educational purposes. Each card box is one billion people. And there are two billion children in the world. There are two billion young people between 15 and 30. These are rounded numbers. Then there is one billion between 30 and 45, almost one between 45 and 60. And then it's my box. This is me: 60-plus. We are here on top. So what will happen now is what we call ""the big fill-up."" You can see that it's like three billion missing here. They are not missing because they've died; they were never born. Because before 1980, there were much fewer people born than there were during the last 30 years. So what will happen now is quite straightforward. The old, sadly, we will die. The rest of you, you will grow older and you will get two billion children. Then the old will die. The rest will grow older and get two billion children. And then again the old will die and you will get two billion children. (Applause) This is the great fill-up. It's inevitable. And can you see that this increase took place without life getting longer and without adding children? Religion has very little to do with the number of babies per woman. All the religions in the world are fully capable to maintain their values and adapt to this new world. And we will be just 10 billion in this world, if the poorest people get out of poverty, their children survive, they get access to family planning. That is needed. But it's inevitable that we will be two to three billion more. So when you discuss and when you plan for the resources and the energy needed for the future, for human beings on this planet, you have to plan for 10 billion. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我今天要談的是宗教但這是個很廣泛且必須小心處理的議題所以我必須有個限度所以我當然會有所節制而單就宗教和性別之間的關係來談 (笑聲) 這是個很嚴肅的議題所以我會盡力以最好的方式來談當年輕夫妻小聲地說""我們今天晚上來做個小寶寶""今天要談的就是宗教層面對每位婦女生的小寶寶數量的影響 這確實很重要因為我們每個人都知道那地球能夠承載的人的數量其實是有某種極限的然後又有那麼一些人說世界人口成長就以這樣的方式增加-1960的30億到去年的70億然後會一直繼續增加因為有那麼一些宗教阻止婦女生少一點小孩而且應該會繼續如此 這些人能對到哪種程度?在我出生時,小孩人口的數量是少於10億的而如今,2000年,已經幾乎快到20億了到底發生了什麼事然後在這個世紀全球小孩人口的總數專家們又預測了些什麼? 這是個測驗你們覺得呢?它會減少到10億嗎?還是到這個世紀結束前它還會維持在20億?會以每15年增加一次還是它會以一樣快的速度繼續下去然後到了那裡就變成40億?我會在結束的時候告訴你們答案 但宗教又和這有什麼關係?當你想把宗教分門別類它會比你想像的還難你在維基百科上看到的第一張地圖會是這個它把世界劃分成阿伯拉罕信仰與東方信仰但這還不夠詳細所以繼續看下去之後我們就發現了這張地圖它把基督,伊斯蘭和佛教信仰細分成很多小群這又變得太複雜了 所以在Gapminder上我們自己做了一張地圖就是現在這張圖每個國家都是一個圓點大小代表它的人口總量中國和印度都是大的然後顏色代表主要的宗教信仰是在哪裡多於半數的人說他們屬於的信仰在印度,中國和其他鄰近亞洲國家都是東方信仰而伊斯蘭信仰則遠從大西洋到中東,南歐然後穿過亞洲再到印尼都是主要的宗教那就是伊斯蘭信仰的大多數族群然後多數的基督教信仰族群就是這些藍色的國家也就是大多數在美洲和歐洲的國家還有很多在非洲和一些在亞洲的國家白色的部分則是還無法被分類的國家因為每一個宗教的信仰人口都還沒過半或是因為對資料的可信度還是一些某些其他的原因我們其實是很小心在處理的 現在我們來看看更簡單明瞭的圖這是1960年我們可以看到每位婦女所生的小孩數量兩個,四個或六個很多和很少的小孩然後這裡是每個人的收入我們看收入的原因是,很多人都說你必須先變得有錢才能去少生一些小孩所以這裡是收入低的,這裡是收入高的 而確實在1960年你必須是個有錢的基督徒才能有較少的小孩但除了日本在這裡日本是個例外否則就只是在基督教信仰的國家才適用但也有很多基督教信仰的國家每位婦女平均生了6至7位的小孩但他們是在拉丁美洲和非洲然後在大多數信仰是伊斯蘭教的國家則是,不論他們的收入多寡幾乎每位婦女都平均生了6到7位小孩然後除了日本,在其他東方信仰的國家也是如此 現在我們來看看這一切是如何轉變的就讓我們從世界的角度來看1962年,你可以看到他們變得比較有錢但每位婦女所生的小孩數量卻在下降?看看中國,他們以相當快的速度在下降大多數以穆斯林為主的國家,無論收入多寡,也是在下降而大多數中等收入的基督徒身上也是如此然後當我們跨入這世紀時你看到大部分的人類都在這然後到2010年我們百分之80的人類都在這平均每位婦女只生兩位小孩的國家 (掌聲) 這真的是件令人震驚的發展(掌聲)然後從這裡是美國平均每人所得4萬美金到法國,俄羅斯,伊朗墨西哥,土耳其,阿爾及利亞印尼,印度然後到最後的孟加拉和越南平均每人所得低於美國的百分之五然後每位婦女所生的小孩數量是一樣的 我們這些每位婦女生的小孩數量的統計資料來源是相當可靠的我們是從人口普查拿到這些資料並不是那些可信度相當低的統計資料 所以我們可以推斷出並不用要變得有錢才能生比較少的小孩這也是事實上所已經發生的 然後當我們再來看宗教信仰可以發現在那些以東方信仰為主的國家確實沒有一個國家的平均每位婦女生的小孩數量超過三個鑑於那些以伊斯蘭和基督教為主的國家也是如此沒有太大的不同在宗教層面上並沒有太大的不同只有一個收入多寡的差別這些平均每位婦女生很多小孩的國家收入都相當的低他們大部分都位於非洲的南撒哈拉沙漠區但這裡也有一些瓜地馬拉, 巴布新幾內亞葉門和阿富汗的國家 很多人都認為阿富汗和剛果都遭受嚴重的軍事衝突所以人口成長速度並不高實際上是相反的在現今的世界那種死亡率很高的國家才會有很快的人口成長因為多生另一個小孩可以補償一個小孩的死去這些國家平均每位婦女生的小孩數量是六位而平均每位婦女1至2位的小孩就有死亡的可能但再過三十年阿富汗的人口就會從3千萬到6千萬剛果則會從6千萬到1億2千萬這就是高度人口成長的國家然後也有很多人認為這些國家是相當落後蕭條的其實不是如此 讓我來比較由伊斯蘭教統治的國家-塞內加爾和一個以基督教統治的國家-迦納讓我們回到他們獨立的時候那是在1960年代初看看他們這一路是如何走來的實在是件很令人驚訝的改變從平均每位婦女所生的小孩數量7位到平均4到5位這的確是很驚人的改善 那它所付出的是什麼?其實我們都知道這些國家需要的是什麼你需要孩子們存活下來你需要脫離極度的貧困所以在家庭中孩子們並不會工作的重要一環你需要一些家庭計劃的管道還有那也許就是最重要的第四點因素 讓我從卡達的例子來說說那第四點原因這裡有卡達和孟加拉如果我回到這些國家獨立的年份幾乎是在同一年- 1971和1972這真的是相當令人驚訝的發展看看孟加拉和卡達在平均每位婦女生的小孩數量上幾乎是同等量的下降卻有著這麼大的收入差異 那在卡達又設什麼原因呢?我一直想要知道所以我去他們的網頁上找到卡達的官方統計數據我推薦這個很棒的網頁我在這裡慢慢研究過這真的很好玩不用付任何一毛錢我就可以發現卡達的社會潮流是如何這實在很有趣有很多可以去了解我發現他們的出生率相當高也就是平均每位婦女的生產量相當高這些是在卡達的政府部門服務的專家和學者們他們說最重要的就是要""提高第一次結婚時的年齡讓卡達婦女的教育水平的提升然後就會有更多的婦女進入職場""科學和我都再同意也不過了這的確是一個已經走過一段非常有趣的現代化時期的國家 所以就是以下這個很重要小孩只需要存活下來而不需要去工作婦女應該要接受教育然後進入職場然後家庭計畫就應該會變得較容易 現在再來看看這目前世界上平均孩童量是像哥倫比亞一樣是2.4位這裡也有一些相當窮困的國家也就是家庭計畫和較高的孩童存活率需要的地方我極力推薦大家Melinda Gates的上一個演講然後這裡有很多平均每位婦女生的小孩數量低於二的國家所以現在我們回到一開始那個小測驗答案是第二個 我們已經達到小孩人口量的最高峰也就是說世界上孩童人口的數量已經不會再增加我們還是不斷地需要石油但是我們已經達到小孩人口量的最高峰所以世界的人口量就會停止成長聯合國的人口統計部就曾說過它會在到達100億的時候停下來但是為什麼會在小孩數量沒有成長的情況下還增加? 看一下這裡我會用這些小框框在一些教育目的上來說他們是很有用處的每個小框框代表10 億人口然後在世界上總共有20億兒童20億在15到30歲間的年輕人這些都是圓形的然後也有10億在30到45歲之間的接著幾乎10億的45到60歲間的人口然後這裡是我在的框框像我一樣超過60歲的都在這我們在最上面這裡 然後接著會發生的就是我們所說的""大填補""你可以看到這裡就像少了個30億他們是因為死了而不是消失但其實他們從來沒有出生過因為和近30年來比較1980年以前比較沒那麼多人出生所以之後會發生什麼事其實是非常明顯的了難過的是,我們老人一定會死去而其他的人呢就慢慢的變老然後會有新一代20億個小孩出現之後老的人口又一定會死去其他的就慢慢老去然後就又出現新一代20億個小孩之後老的人口又死去新一代20億個小孩就又會出現 (掌聲) 這是種很棒的""填補""而且是無法避免的你可以看到這種增加發生如果沒有生活得更長、 而無需添加兒童？ 宗教和每位婦女所生的小孩數量其實沒什麼關係世界上所有的宗教都是有能力去維持它們的價值觀同時去適應新的時代 然後我們每個人在這世界上就只會是那100億中的一個如果那些最貧窮的人脫離貧困孩子們存活了下來然後他們有能力去規劃家庭這就是一定需要的但不可避免地我們人口會比20到30億還多所以當你在推估討論時那些我們在未來所需的能源和資源和所有在這地球上的全人類你需要預計到個100億非常感謝你們(掌聲)"
