Talk	en	zh-tw
hans_rosling_reveals_new_insights_on_poverty	"I told you three things last year. I told you that the statistics of the world have not been made properly available. Because of that, we still have the old mindset of developing in industrialized countries, which is wrong. And that animated graphics can make a difference. Things are changing and today, on the United Nations Statistic Division Home Page, it says, by first of May, full access to the databases. (Applause) And if I could share the image with you on the screen. So three things have happened. U.N. opened their statistic databases, and we have a new version of the software up working as a beta on the net, so you don't have to download it any longer. And let me repeat what you saw last year. The bubbles are the countries. Here you have the fertility rate — the number of children per woman — and there you have the length of life in years. This is 1950 — those were the industrialized countries, those were developing countries. At that time there was a ""we"" and ""them."" There was a huge difference in the world. But then it changed, and it went on quite well. And this is what happens. You can see how China is the red, big bubble. The blue there is India. And they go over all this — I'm going to try to be a little more serious this year in showing you how things really changed. And it's Africa that stands out as the problem down here, doesn't it? Large families still, and the HIV epidemic brought down the countries like this. This is more or less what we saw last year, and this is how it will go on into the future. And I will talk on, is this possible? Because you see now, I presented statistics that don't exist. Because this is where we are. Will it be possible that this will happen? I cover my lifetime here, you know? I expect to live 100 years. And this is where we are today. Now could we look here instead at the economic situation in the world? And I would like to show that against child survival. We'll swap the axis. Here you have child mortality — that is, survival — four kids dying there, 200 dying there. And this is GDP per capita on this axis. And this was 2007. And if I go back in time, I've added some historical statistics — here we go, here we go, here we go — not so much statistics 100 years ago. Some countries still had statistics. We are looking down in the archive, and when we are down into 1820, there is only Austria and Sweden that can produce numbers. (Laughter) But they were down here. They had 1,000 dollars per person per year. And they lost one-fifth of their kids before their first birthday. So this is what happens in the world, if we play the entire world. How they got slowly richer and richer, and they add statistics. Isn't it beautiful when they get statistics? You see the importance of that? And here, children don't live longer. The last century, 1870, was bad for the kids in Europe, because most of this statistics is Europe. It was only by the turn of the century that more than 90 percent of the children survived their first year. This is India coming up, with the first data from India. And this is the United States moving away here, earning more money. And we will soon see China coming up in the very far end corner here. And it moves up with Mao Tse-Tung getting health, not getting so rich. There he died, then Deng Xiaoping brings money. It moves this way over here. And the bubbles keep moving up there, and this is what the world looks like today. (Applause) Let us have a look at the United States. We have a function here — I can tell the world, ""Stay where you are."" And I take the United States — we still want to see the background — I put them up like this, and now we go backwards. And we can see that the United States goes to the right of the mainstream. They are on the money side all the time. And down in 1915, the United States was a neighbor of India — present, contemporary India. And that means United States was richer, but lost more kids than India is doing today, proportionally. And look here — compare to the Philippines of today. The Philippines of today has almost the same economy as the United States during the First World War. But we have to bring United States forward quite a while to find the same health of the United States as we have in the Philippines. About 1957 here, the health of the United States is the same as the Philippines. And this is the drama of this world which many call globalized, is that Asia, Arabic countries, Latin America, are much more ahead in being healthy, educated, having human resources than they are economically. There's a discrepancy in what's happening today in the emerging economies. There now, social benefits, social progress, are going ahead of economical progress. And 1957 — the United States had the same economy as Chile has today. And how long do we have to bring United States to get the same health as Chile has today? I think we have to go, there — we have 2001, or 2002 — the United States has the same health as Chile. Chile's catching up! Within some years Chile may have better child survival than the United States. This is really a change, that you have this lag of more or less 30, 40 years' difference on the health. And behind the health is the educational level. And there's a lot of infrastructure things, and general human resources are there. Now we can take away this — and I would like to show you the rate of speed, the rate of change, how fast they have gone. And we go back to 1920, and I want to look at Japan. And I want to look at Sweden and the United States. And I'm going to stage a race here between this sort of yellowish Ford here and the red Toyota down there, and the brownish Volvo. (Laughter) And here we go. Here we go. The Toyota has a very bad start down here, you can see, and the United States Ford is going off-road there. And the Volvo is doing quite fine. This is the war. The Toyota got off track, and now the Toyota is coming on the healthier side of Sweden — can you see that? And they are taking over Sweden, and they are now healthier than Sweden. That's the part where I sold the Volvo and bought the Toyota. (Laughter) And now we can see that the rate of change was enormous in Japan. They really caught up. And this changes gradually. We have to look over generations to understand it. And let me show you my own sort of family history — we made these graphs here. And this is the same thing, money down there, and health, you know? And this is my family. This is Sweden, 1830, when my great-great-grandma was born. Sweden was like Sierra Leone today. And this is when great-grandma was born, 1863. And Sweden was like Mozambique. And this is when my grandma was born, 1891. She took care of me as a child, so I'm not talking about statistic now — now it's oral history in my family. That's when I believe statistics, when it's grandma-verified statistics. (Laughter) I think it's the best way of verifying historical statistics. Sweden was like Ghana. It's interesting to see the enormous diversity within sub-Saharan Africa. I told you last year, I'll tell you again, my mother was born in Egypt, and I — who am I? I'm the Mexican in the family. And my daughter, she was born in Chile, and the grand-daughter was born in Singapore, now the healthiest country on this Earth. It bypassed Sweden about two to three years ago, with better child survival. But they're very small, you know? They're so close to the hospital we can never beat them out in these forests. (Laughter) But homage to Singapore. Singapore is the best one. Now this looks also like a very good story. But it's not really that easy, that it's all a good story. Because I have to show you one of the other facilities. We can also make the color here represent the variable — and what am I choosing here? Carbon-dioxide emission, metric ton per capita. This is 1962, and United States was emitting 16 tons per person. And China was emitting 0.6, and India was emitting 0.32 tons per capita. And what happens when we moved on? Well, you see the nice story of getting richer and getting healthier — everyone did it at the cost of emission of carbon dioxide. There is no one who has done it so far. And we don't have all the updated data any longer, because this is really hot data today. And there we are, 2001. And in the discussion I attended with global leaders, you know, many say now the problem is that the emerging economies, they are getting out too much carbon dioxide. The Minister of the Environment of India said, ""Well, you were the one who caused the problem."" The OECD countries — the high-income countries — they were the ones who caused the climate change. ""But we forgive you, because you didn't know it. But from now on, we count per capita. From now on we count per capita. And everyone is responsible for the per capita emission."" This really shows you, we have not seen good economic and health progress anywhere in the world without destroying the climate. And this is really what has to be changed. I've been criticized for showing you a too positive image of the world, but I don't think it's like this. The world is quite a messy place. This we can call Dollar Street. Everyone lives on this street here. What they earn here — what number they live on — is how much they earn per day. This family earns about one dollar per day. We drive up the street here, we find a family here which earns about two to three dollars a day. And we drive away here — we find the first garden in the street, and they earn 10 to 50 dollars a day. And how do they live? If we look at the bed here, we can see that they sleep on a rug on the floor. This is what poverty line is — 80 percent of the family income is just to cover the energy needs, the food for the day. This is two to five dollars. You have a bed. And here it's a much nicer bedroom, you can see. I lectured on this for Ikea, and they wanted to see the sofa immediately here. (Laughter) And this is the sofa, how it will emerge from there. And the interesting thing, when you go around here in the photo panorama, you see the family still sitting on the floor there. Although there is a sofa, if you watch in the kitchen, you can see that the great difference for women does not come between one to 10 dollars. It comes beyond here, when you really can get good working conditions in the family. And if you really want to see the difference, you look at the toilet over here. This can change. This can change. These are all pictures and images from Africa, and it can become much better. We can get out of poverty. My own research has not been in IT or anything like this. I spent 20 years in interviews with African farmers who were on the verge of famine. And this is the result of the farmers-needs research. The nice thing here is that you can't see who are the researchers in this picture. That's when research functions in poor societies — you must really live with the people. When you're in poverty, everything is about survival. It's about having food. And these two young farmers, they are girls now — because the parents are dead from HIV and AIDS — they discuss with a trained agronomist. This is one of the best agronomists in Malawi, Junatambe Kumbira, and he's discussing what sort of cassava they will plant — the best converter of sunshine to food that man has found. And they are very, very eagerly interested to get advice, and that's to survive in poverty. That's one context. Getting out of poverty. The women told us one thing. ""Get us technology. We hate this mortar, to stand hours and hours. Get us a mill so that we can mill our flour, then we will be able to pay for the rest ourselves."" Technology will bring you out of poverty, but there's a need for a market to get away from poverty. And this woman is very happy now, bringing her products to the market. But she's very thankful for the public investment in schooling so she can count, and won't be cheated when she reaches the market. She wants her kid to be healthy, so she can go to the market and doesn't have to stay home. And she wants the infrastructure — it is nice with a paved road. It's also good with credit. Micro-credits gave her the bicycle, you know. And information will tell her when to go to market with which product. You can do this. I find my experience from 20 years of Africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible. Africa has not done bad. In 50 years they've gone from a pre-Medieval situation to a very decent 100-year-ago Europe, with a functioning nation and state. I would say that sub-Saharan Africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years. Because we don't consider where they came from. It's this stupid concept of developing countries that puts us, Argentina and Mozambique together 50 years ago, and says that Mozambique did worse. We have to know a little more about the world. I have a neighbor who knows 200 types of wine. He knows everything. He knows the name of the grape, the temperature and everything. I only know two types of wine — red and white. (Laughter) But my neighbor only knows two types of countries — industrialized and developing. And I know 200, I know about the small data. But you can do that. (Applause) But I have to get serious. And how do you get serious? You make a PowerPoint, you know? (Laughter) Homage to the Office package, no? What is this, what is this, what am I telling? I'm telling you that there are many dimensions of development. Everyone wants your pet thing. If you are in the corporate sector, you love micro-credit. If you are fighting in a non-governmental organization, you love equity between gender. Or if you are a teacher, you'll love UNESCO, and so on. On the global level, we have to have more than our own thing. We need everything. All these things are important for development, especially when you just get out of poverty and you should go towards welfare. Now, what we need to think about is, what is a goal for development, and what are the means for development? Let me first grade what are the most important means. Economic growth to me, as a public-health professor, is the most important thing for development because it explains 80 percent of survival. Governance. To have a government which functions — that's what brought California out of the misery of 1850. It was the government that made law function finally. Education, human resources are important. Health is also important, but not that much as a mean. Environment is important. Human rights is also important, but it just gets one cross. Now what about goals? Where are we going toward? We are not interested in money. Money is not a goal. It's the best mean, but I give it zero as a goal. Governance, well it's fun to vote in a little thing, but it's not a goal. And going to school, that's not a goal, it's a mean. Health I give two points. I mean it's nice to be healthy — at my age especially — you can stand here, you're healthy. And that's good, it gets two plusses. Environment is very, very crucial. There's nothing for the grandkid if you don't save up. But where are the important goals? Of course, it's human rights. Human rights is the goal, but it's not that strong of a mean for achieving development. And culture. Culture is the most important thing, I would say, because that's what brings joy to life. That's the value of living. So the seemingly impossible is possible. Even African countries can achieve this. And I've shown you the shot where the seemingly impossible is possible. And remember, please remember my main message, which is this: the seemingly impossible is possible. We can have a good world. I showed you the shots, I proved it in the PowerPoint, and I think I will convince you also by culture. (Laughter) (Applause) Bring me my sword! Sword swallowing is from ancient India. It's a cultural expression that for thousands of years has inspired human beings to think beyond the obvious. (Laughter) And I will now prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible by taking this piece of steel — solid steel — this is the army bayonet from the Swedish Army, 1850, in the last year we had war. And it's all solid steel — you can hear here. And I'm going to take this blade of steel, and push it down through my body of blood and flesh, and prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible. Can I request a moment of absolute silence? (Applause)"	"去年我們講了3個問題我們已經談過了世界的統計資料並不為人們所知所以我們仍錯誤的把世界劃分為發達國家與發展中國家但是新的統計數據動畫技術將引領變革變革已經開始今天，在聯合國統計署的官方網站上通告說5月1日以後所有數據庫向公眾開放（掌聲）我們一起看大屏幕（過去1年中）發生了3件事聯合國開放了他們的數據庫我們的軟件推出了新版本其測試版可以在線使用所以今後大家再也不用下載了 首先我們回顧一下去年的內容每個球代表一個國家X軸是生育率，每個婦女的育兒數Y軸是平均壽命年數當前數據是1950年，這些是發達國家這些是發展中國家那時世界是由“我們和他們”構成的那時候各國差距很大後來世界往好的方向上改變了 這就是變化的過程那個大的紅球代表中國而那個大的藍球代表印度（今年我想稍微嚴肅一些地向你們展示世界的發展過程）而這些（小的深藍色球）非洲國家正是問題所在龐大的家庭，艾滋病流行導致平均壽命下降這基本上就是去年我們所講的內容而這是對未來的預測 我得說這些只是可能發生的因為現在我們看到的實際上是不存在的統計數據這是目前的實際情況也許未來的發展會像這樣（這段時間）包含了我的人生我期望活到100歲這是今天的世界我們看看世界的經濟情況和對應的兒童健康狀況我們翻轉一下Y軸現在Y軸是兒童死亡率這裡是千分之四，而那裡是千分之兩百X軸是人均GDP當前是2007年的數據 如果我們回到過去，我們增加了一些歷史數據100年前沒有多少數據統計只有少數國家有數據可查我們參考了歷史文獻的記載現在我們看到的是1820年的數據那時只有奧地利和瑞典人識數（笑聲）但他們在下邊，每人每年1000美元的收入五分之一的孩子活不到1歲生日 這就是那時的世界。再看看世界的發展這些國家慢慢變得富有另一些國家開始擁有統計數據（這些數據是不是很漂亮？大家發現統計的重要性了吧）但是兒童健康並沒有得到很大的改善在19世紀70年代左右，歐洲的孩子們很不幸因為這些數據都來自歐洲國家直到19世紀與20世紀交替的時候90%以上的孩子能慶祝1歲生日現在出現的是印度（藍球）而這個（黃球）是美國，人們的錢包越來越鼓中國（大的紅球）出現在遠處的角落毛澤東時代，中國兒童健康不斷改善但是收入的增加很緩慢毛澤東去世後，鄧小平帶來了金錢中國朝著高收入的方向發展其他國家也都在發展這就是今天我們的世界（掌聲） 現在我們看看美國（新軟件）多了一個選項，可以讓世界（其他國家）靜止我們把美國選定，把背景調亮這樣可以看到其他國家接著我們回到過去美國始終在主流的右側他們總和錢站在同一邊回到1915年，當時的美國和今天的印度差不多當時的美國（比今天的印度）更富有兒童死亡率卻更高再看這裡，菲律賓（與美國）相比菲律賓今天的經濟水平與一戰時期的美國差不多但美國需要（從一戰後）發展多少年才能達到菲律賓今天的兒童健康水平呢才能達到菲律賓今天的兒童健康水平呢直到1957年，美國的兒童健康水平才和今天的菲律賓一樣這就是世界發展的劇本，很多人稱之為“全球化”也就是說在亞洲，阿拉伯國家和拉丁美洲其健康和教育水平的發展速度遠超過了經濟發展的速度 而在今天的新興國家中發展的差異更多的體現在社會的進步而不是經濟的發展1957年美國的經濟水平與今天的智利相近但美國需要發展多少年才能達到智利今天的兒童健康水平呢（我們要等到）2002年美國的兒童健康水平才和今天的智利一樣智利已經趕上來了！幾年後智利的兒童健康可能會超過美國這真是很大的變化，在不同的國家經濟發展和健康水平的差距有30，40年 而在這個背後，有教育的差距還有基礎設施的差距以及人力資源的差距等等我們現在把其他國家去掉再來看看不同的國家其發展速度有怎樣的差異回到1920年，先選定日本選定瑞典和美國我們將舉辦一場車賽選手分別是黃色的福特車（美國）紅色的豐田車（日本）和棕色的沃爾沃車（瑞典）（笑聲）比賽開始豐田車啟動時的表現很差福特車駛出了賽道沃爾沃表現的很不錯二戰時，豐田車跑到了賽道外但它（很快調整好）並在健康水平高於瑞典的一側運行但它（很快調整好）並在健康水平高於瑞典的一側運行現在它的健康水平已經超過了瑞典就在那一年我把自己的沃爾沃換成了豐田車（笑聲）我們看到日本的變化速度是驚人的他們確實赶超了上來 但是這種變化是逐步發生的要經歷好幾代人的時間才能理解這種變化下面把我的家族史展示給大家看一下（這張圖代表今天的世界）Y軸代表健康水平，X軸是收入（這根紅線）代表了我的家族這裡是1830年的瑞典，我的曾曾祖母出生於這一年1830年的瑞典和今天的塞拉利昂一樣我的曾祖母生於1863年1863年的瑞典和今天的莫桑比克一樣我的祖母生於1891年是她看著我長大的現在我給大家講述的不是統計數據而是我本人的家族歷史我之所以相信這些統計數據是因為我的祖母證實了這些數據的真實性（笑聲）我認為祖母最適合於驗證數據真實性1891年的瑞典和今天的嘎納一樣可見在撒哈拉以南非洲地區國家間的差異非常巨大（我們再來回顧一下去年的內容）我母親出生於（今天的）埃及我是家裡的墨西哥人我女兒出生於（今天的）智利我的孫女則出生在（今天的）新加坡新加坡是目前世界上最健康的國家其兒童健康水平在2，3年前超過了瑞典但新加坡是個小地方人們住的地方和醫院很近把他們搬到瑞典的森林地區再比比看（笑聲）但還是應該向新加坡致敬 他們是最健康的國家之一以上這些看起來很不錯但這些好的現像不能代表全部現在我們調整一下設置把球的顏色重新設置一下，讓顏色表示把球的顏色重新設置一下，讓顏色表示CO2人均排放量（公噸）1962年，美國的人均CO2排放量為16噸當時的中國人均排放0.6噸印度為0.3噸後來呢各國的經濟和健康均得到了發展各國的經濟和健康均得到了發展同時所有國家的人均CO2排放量都增加了沒有哪個國家不是如此手頭上我們沒有更近的數據因為CO2的數據現在很炙手可熱最新的數據只有2001年的 上次我參加了一個世界領導人的會議很多人在埋怨新興國家說他們排放了太多CO2印度環境部的部長說“問題出在你們那裡經合組織成員國，高收入國家是你們導致了氣候的改變但我們原諒你們，因為你們以前並不知情從現在起我們算人均CO2排放量從現在起我們算人均CO2排放量每個國家都應該對自己的人均CO2排放量負責” 這裡我們清楚地看到，每個國家的經濟發展和健康的改善都是以破壞環境為代價的這亟需改變我給大家展示過於樂觀的發展前景，已經招來不少批評儘管我不太認同這是一個亂糟糟的世界現在大家所看到的是“美元街”所有人都住在這條街上上面的數字代表居民每天的收入這家人每天收入1美元我們駕車往前走這家人每天收入2-3美元繼續往前走，看到街上第一個帶花園的房子他們家每天收入10-50美元 房子裡面是什麼樣子的呢先看看臥室（最窮的一家）睡在地板上這就是貧困線以下的生活80%的收入用於基本生活所需的能量和食物80%的收入用於基本生活所需的能量和食物這家人每天收入2-5美元，有床可以睡了（帶花園的這一家）臥室要好得多我給""宜家""僱員們作報告的時候他們要求看看沙發（笑聲）這就是（貧困家裡的）沙發這一家有像樣的沙發，但我們環顧周圍會看到他們仍然坐在地板上儘管他們有沙發我們再看看廚房日收入1美元和10美元的家庭，廚房條件差不多在日收入超過10美元的家裡廚房的條件才大為改善真正的差別其實在廁所大家看這裡這些是可以改變的這些圖片來自非洲但是（非洲）可以變得更好我們可以擺脫貧困 我以前的研究並不是現在的IT領域我在非洲工作了20年，終日奔走於飢餓的非洲農民中間我在非洲工作了20年，終日奔走於飢餓的非洲農民中間這張照片記錄了對“農民需求”的一項研究有趣的是，你在照片上分辨不出誰是研究人員在貧困地區開展研究的時候你必須和當地人生活在一起 如果你在貧困線以下，生存就是你的全部必須獲得食物照片裡的2個年輕的農民，她們是女孩因為父母都死於艾滋病她們正和一個農學家交談他是馬拉維最好的農學家之一，（名字是）Jonathan Mkambira他們正在討論種植哪一種cassavaCassava是已知的轉化太陽能效率最高的植物農民非常渴望得到建議這就是貧困線以下的生活另一方面（如何）擺脫貧困照片中的婦女告訴我們：“我們需要技術支持我們不想用人工磨，連續幾個小時站著給我們電動磨來磨麵粉吧我們可以用賣麵粉的錢去買其它東西”技術支持可以幫助人們脫貧而市場對於人們脫貧也很重要照片裡的婦女很開心，她正把農產品運到市場上去賣她很感謝政府的教育投資她學會了算術，這樣在市場裡不會被騙她也希望孩子健康，這樣她可以安心去市場而不是在家裡照顧小孩她還希望有基礎設施，有一條鋪好的道路很重要另外小額貸款也很有用小額貸款幫她買了自行車她還需要訊息，何時帶何種農產品去市場而這些都是我們能實現的 非洲20年的經歷讓我明白看上去不可能的事情，其實是可能的非洲的表現一點也不差50年時間裡，非洲從中世紀之前的水平發展為100年前的歐洲並建立起國家系統我想說撒哈拉以南非洲地區在過去的50年中，是發展速度最快的地區我想說撒哈拉以南非洲地區在過去的50年中，是發展速度最快的地區由於我們沒有考慮非洲的出身而且錯誤的使用“發展中國家”的理念50年前把阿根廷和莫桑比克歸類在一起然後得出結論說莫桑比克的發展（比阿根廷）差多了我們應該更深入了解這個世界我的鄰居了解200種葡萄酒他對這些酒瞭如指掌他知道葡萄的名字，釀酒的溫度我就知道2種葡萄酒，紅的和白的（笑聲）但是我鄰居就知道2種國家發達國家和發展中國家我熟悉200個國家，以及他們的歷年數據這個你也能做到（掌聲） 後面我要嚴肅一些，怎麼嚴肅法呢？我們需要Power Point（笑聲）向微軟""Office""致敬！下面我想講一下發展的過程是多維的每個人都有自己的偏好如果你為企業部門工作，你會偏愛小額貸款如果你在非政府組織工作你更喜歡討論男女平等如果你是教師，你會首推聯合國教科文組織，等等在全球發展的層面，我們的需求其實大同小異這種需求涉及所有領域因為它們都是發展的前提尤其是對於希望脫貧致富的人們尤其是對於希望脫貧致富的人們 我們要仔細考慮一下哪些是發展的目標哪些是發展的途徑先看看最重要的途徑經濟的發展，對於公共衛生學教授來說這是一切發展的根本經濟的發展，對於公共衛生學教授來說這是一切發展的根本因為經濟是生存的基礎其次是政府職能，依託一個有效的政府加利福尼亞成功的度過了1850年的艱難時期而且政府職能是有效司法體系的基礎再然後是教育，人力資源非常重要健康也很重要但不是發展必需的方法環境也比較重要還有人權，但作為發展的方法，其分量不重 再看發展的目標，我們需要往什麼方向發展肯定不是金錢經濟發展是最好的發展途徑，但不是發展的目標經濟發展是最好的發展途徑，但不是發展的目標也許有政府職能，能參加選舉固然不錯但這不足以成為發展的目標接受教育也不是目標，而是發展的途徑健康得2分，因為健康的身體很重要尤其在我這個年齡還可以站在講台上所以健康得2分環境也非常重要如果現在不保護環境，我們的子孫將一無所有那麼什麼是最重要的發展目標呢當然是人權了人權是發展的核心目標儘管這不是發展的必需途徑還有文化，我想把文化放在最重要的位置因為文化給我們的生活帶來歡樂給生活賦予了意義 看上去不可能的事情是可能實現的即使是非洲也能做到那些圖表已經證明這一點，看上去不可能的事情是可能實現的這就是今天我的演講最重要的內容看上去不可能的事情是可能實現的明天的世界會更美好在給你們展示了圖表，還有幻燈片之後我要用最後的內容來說服你們，文化（笑聲）（掌聲）拿劍來！吞劍表演古印度傳承了上千年的傳統表演這項表演一直激勵著人們去探索視野之外的世界（笑聲）今天我也要證明給你們看，看上去不可能的事情是可能實現的我將用這把鐵劍，1850年的瑞典軍用刺刀我將用這把鐵劍，1850年的瑞典軍用刺刀（那年瑞典打完了最後一場戰爭）大家可以聽一下，貨真價實接著我會將這把鐵劍穿過我這血肉之軀從而向你們證明，看上去不可能的事情是可能實現的請大家保持絕對的安靜www.gapminder.org"
