Talk	en	zh-tw
hans_rosling_on_global_population_growth	"I still remember the day in school when our teacher told us that the world population had become three billion people, and that was in 1960. I'm going to talk now about how world population has changed from that year and into the future, but I will not use digital technology, as I've done during my first five TEDTalks. Instead, I have progressed, and I am, today, launching a brand new analog teaching technology that I picked up from IKEA: this box. This box contains one billion people. And our teacher told us that the industrialized world, 1960, had one billion people. In the developing world, she said, they had two billion people. And they lived away then. There was a big gap between the one billion in the industrialized world and the two billion in the developing world. In the industrialized world, people were healthy, educated, rich, and they had small families. And their aspiration was to buy a car. And in 1960, all Swedes were saving to try to buy a Volvo like this. This was the economic level at which Sweden was. But in contrast to this, in the developing world, far away, the aspiration of the average family there was to have food for the day. They were saving to be able to buy a pair of shoes. There was an enormous gap in the world when I grew up. And this gap between the West and the rest has created a mindset of the world, which we still use linguistically when we talk about ""the West"" and ""the Developing World."" But the world has changed, and it's overdue to upgrade that mindset and that taxonomy of the world, and to understand it. And that's what I'm going to show you, because since 1960 what has happened in the world up to 2010 is that a staggering four billion people have been added to the world population. Just look how many. The world population has doubled since I went to school. And of course, there's been economic growth in the West. A lot of companies have happened to grow the economy, so the Western population moved over to here. And now their aspiration is not only to have a car. Now they want to have a holiday on a very remote destination and they want to fly. So this is where they are today. And the most successful of the developing countries, they have moved on, you know, and they have become emerging economies, we call them. They are now buying cars. And what happened a month ago was that the Chinese company, Geely, they acquired the Volvo company, and then finally the Swedes understood that something big had happened in the world. (Laughter) So there they are. And the tragedy is that the two billion over here that is struggling for food and shoes, they are still almost as poor as they were 50 years ago. The new thing is that we have the biggest pile of billions, the three billions here, which are also becoming emerging economies, because they are quite healthy, relatively well-educated, and they already also have two to three children per woman, as those [richer also] have. And their aspiration now is, of course, to buy a bicycle, and then later on they would like to have a motorbike also. But this is the world we have today, no longer any gap. But the distance from the poorest here, the very poorest, to the very richest over here is wider than ever. But there is a continuous world from walking, biking, driving, flying — there are people on all levels, and most people tend to be somewhere in the middle. This is the new world we have today in 2010. And what will happen in the future? Well, I'm going to project into 2050. I was in Shanghai recently, and I listened to what's happening in China, and it's pretty sure that they will catch up, just as Japan did. All the projections [say that] this one [billion] will [only] grow with one to two or three percent. [But this second] grows with seven, eight percent, and then they will end up here. They will start flying. And these lower or middle income countries, the emerging income countries, they will also forge forwards economically. And if, but only if, we invest in the right green technology — so that we can avoid severe climate change, and energy can still be relatively cheap — then they will move all the way up here. And they will start to buy electric cars. This is what we will find there. So what about the poorest two billion? What about the poorest two billion here? Will they move on? Well, here population [growth] comes in because there [among emerging economies] we already have two to three children per woman, family planning is widely used, and population growth is coming to an end. Here [among the poorest], population is growing. So these [poorest] two billion will, in the next decades, increase to three billion, and they will thereafter increase to four billion. There is nothing — but a nuclear war of a kind we've never seen — that can stop this [growth] from happening. Because we already have this [growth] in process. But if, and only if, [the poorest] get out of poverty, they get education, they get improved child survival, they can buy a bicycle and a cell phone and come [to live] here, then population growth will stop in 2050. We cannot have people on this level looking for food and shoes because then we get continued population growth. And let me show you why by converting back to the old-time digital technology. Here I have on the screen my country bubbles. Every bubble is a country. The size is population. The colors show the continent. The yellow on there is the Americas; dark blue is Africa; brown is Europe; green is the Middle East and this light blue is South Asia. That's India and this is China. Size is population. Here I have children per woman: two children, four children, six children, eight children — big families, small families. The year is 1960. And down here, child survival, the percentage of children surviving childhood up to starting school: 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent, 90, and almost 100 percent, as we have today in the wealthiest and healthiest countries. But look, this is the world my teacher talked about in 1960: one billion Western world here — high child-survival, small families — and all the rest, the rainbow of developing countries, with very large families and poor child survival. What has happened? I start the world. Here we go. Can you see, as the years pass by, child survival is increasing? They get soap, hygiene, education, vaccination, penicillin and then family planning. Family size is decreasing. [When] they get up to 90-percent child survival, then families decrease, and most of the Arab countries in the Middle East is falling down there [to small families]. Look, Bangladesh catching up with India. The whole emerging world joins the Western world with good child survival and small family size, but we still have the poorest billion. Can you see the poorest billion, those [two] boxes I had over here? They are still up here. And they still have a child survival of only 70 to 80 percent, meaning that if you have six children born, there will be at least four who survive to the next generation. And the population will double in one generation. So the only way of really getting world population [growth] to stop is to continue to improve child survival to 90 percent. That's why investments by Gates Foundation, UNICEF and aid organizations, together with national government in the poorest countries, are so good; because they are actually helping us to reach a sustainable population size of the world. We can stop at nine billion if we do the right things. Child survival is the new green. It's only by child survival that we will stop population growth. And will it happen? Well, I'm not an optimist, neither am I a pessimist. I'm a very serious ""possibilist."" It's a new category where we take emotion apart, and we just work analytically with the world. It can be done. We can have a much more just world. With green technology and with investments to alleviate poverty, and global governance, the world can become like this. And look at the position of the old West. Remember when this blue box was all alone, leading the world, living its own life. This will not happen [again]. The role of the old West in the new world is to become the foundation of the modern world — nothing more, nothing less. But it's a very important role. Do it well and get used to it. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我還記得以前在學校時，當老師告訴我們世界人口已達三十億人的時候，那年是 1960 年。我現在想談論的是自從那年後，世界人口是如何改變了，未來又將如何？但這次我不用數位科技因為在前五場的 TEDTalks，我已用了好幾次相反地，這次我進步了今天，我要展開一項全新的類比教學技術，一個我從 IKEA 取得的科技產品：就是這個箱子。 這箱子藏有十億人。我們以前的老師告訴我們，1960 年時，在工業國家裡共有十億人口。她說，在發展中國家有二十億人。而他們的生活遠遠不及工業化國家。在他們之中，隔著一個巨大鴻溝十億人住在工業化的世界裡，另外二十億人住在開發中國家。在工業化世界裡，人們身體健康、教育良好、生活富裕、也擁有小家庭。他們的志願是買一輛車。1960 年時， 每個瑞典人都會存錢買一輛 Volvo，像這個這是當時瑞典的經濟水準但相反地，開發中國家卻遠不及此，在那裡，一般家庭的志願是求一頓安飽就好他們存錢是爲了能夠買一雙鞋當時世界存在一個巨大鴻溝。當我還小的時候這個介於西方國家和其他地區的鴻溝創造了一種世界心態這個心態反應在，我們仍然在語言上使用「西方國家」與「發展中國家」等詞彙。但這個世界已經改變了，心態卻沒有更新分類世界的方法也停留在過去，沒有人好好地理解 這就是我要向各位展示的東西因為，自從 1960 年開始，一直到 2010 年以來，在這個世界上所發生的是一個驚人的四十億人口加入了世界看看數據就可以明白自從我上學後，全球人口翻了兩倍。當然，西方國家的經濟有所成長許多企業提振了經濟，於是，西方國家的人口也移到這裡現在，他們的志願已經不再只是一輛車了現在他們要的是長途旅行他們想坐飛機所以這是他們今天所在之處而在這裡，最成功的發展中國家也進步了，他們成為新興國家現在他們開始買起車子。就在一個月前一家中國企業——吉利汽車買下了 Volvo於是瑞典人終於明白有什麽大事發生了。（笑聲） 就是這樣但悲傷的是，這裡的二十億人爲了食物和鞋子掙扎奮鬥的人們，依然和五十年前一樣貧窮新的不同之處是在這，有一群很大的有三十億人口，成為新興國家經濟的一員，因為他們相當健康、受過相對良好的教育、平均每個婦女也有兩到三個孩子了而現在他們的志願當然是買台腳踏車，在過不久，他們也許會想買一台摩托車這就是我們現今所處的世界，再也沒有鴻溝了。但是，窮人和有錢人之間的距離卻比以往還要大了這裡有個持續演變的世界從步行，腳踏車，開車，到坐飛機——包含各階段的人但大多數人存在於中間某處這就是我們今日所處的世界在 2010 年。 那麼，未來會發生什麽事呢？我將會預測2050 年的世界。最近我去了上海一趟，我聽到在中國發生的事。我確信他們會迅速追上，就像日本一樣所有的預測——這一區的人口會成長1%到3%這一區會增長7%、8%，然後停留在這裡，他們會開始起飛而這些中低收入國家，也就是新興國家，也會在經濟上往前進而且，只有在我們正確地投資綠色科技的前提下——我們才能避免嚴重的氣候變遷問題，能源也可以維持便宜的價格——然後，他們才得以進一步移到這裡接著，他們會開始買電動車。這是我們目前所發現的情況 那麼，關於那些最貧窮的二十億人口...那些最貧窮的二十億人口將會如何呢？他們會往前進嗎？嗯，這裡加入了新的人口，在那兒，平均每個女人已經擁有兩、到三個孩子，在生育計劃的實施下，人口成長即將告一段落在這裡，人口正在增加，所以，在接下來的二十年中，這二十億人會增加到三十億此後，他們又將成長到四十億除了核戰之外沒有其他東西能夠阻止他們人口繼續成長因為這情況已經正在發生只有在，他們脫離貧窮的情況下，像是受教育、改善兒童存活率等，他們才可以買腳踏車、手機，並且來到這，於是人口的成長才可以在 2050 年時停頓下來。不能有人留在這個階段找食物、找鞋子，因為如此一來，人口成長將持續擴大。 讓我透過以往的數位科技告訴你爲什麽在螢幕上，我有國家泡泡每個泡泡代表國家，尺寸代表人口數量，顏色代表不同的大陸區塊在那兒，黃色是美洲；深藍色是非洲；棕色是歐洲；綠色是中東；淺藍色是南亞那是印度，這是中國。大小代表人口數量這裡是 每個女人的小孩數目，兩個孩子、四個孩子、六個孩子、八個孩子——大家庭、小家庭這是 1960 年下面這裡是兒童的存活率，自孩提時期一直到上學為止兒童存活的百分比率60%、70%、80%、90%接近100%，如同我們今天最富裕和最健康國家的比率看，這就是我老師在 1960 年所談的世界，西方世界有十億人，高度的兒童存活率，小家庭而其他所有地區，這些開發中國家的彩虹區域裡，都是大家庭和低度的兒童存活率。 發生了什麽事？來吧，讓這世界開始吧！看到了嗎？隨著年份的推移，兒童存活率上升了他們有肥皂、衛生、教育、疫苗接種、抗生素接著是家庭計劃，家庭的規模正逐漸縮小，兒童存活率上升至 90%，家庭人口減少，大多數的中東阿拉伯國家降到下方來看，孟加拉趕上印度，整個新興國家世界加入了西方世界有了好的兒童存活率和小家庭的規模。但，我們仍然有最貧窮的十億人口你們看到最貧困的十億人了嗎？在那箱子那邊？他們仍然在那兒童存活率依然只有70%~80%這意謂著，如果六個孩子出生，至少有四個可以活下來成為下一代人口數會在一個世代之間成長兩倍 因此，唯一可以使世界人口停止成長的方法就是繼續提高兒童的存活率提高到 90%這就是爲什麽比爾蓋茲基金會、聯合國兒童基金會、其他組織、和最貧窮國家政府的投資是不錯的因為，他們事實上幫我們達到世界人口的永續規模如果我們做對的事，可以使人口停在九十億兒童存活率是一個新的夢想，只有提高兒童存活率，才可以停止人口成長。那再接下來會發生什麽事？我不是樂觀的人，也不是悲觀主義者；我是一個「可能主義者」（possibilist）這是一個新的類別，在這裡我們拋開情感，純粹地分析這個世界這個問題是可以解決的我們可以擁有一個更公平的世界用綠色科技用投資減緩貧窮加上全球治理，世界可以變得像這樣 看看舊西方西方國家的位置還記得，當這邊只有藍色箱子的時候，領導全世界，過自己的生活這不會再發生了。過去西方世界的角色，在新的世界裡會成為現代社會的基礎——不多不少剛剛好但他是個非常重要的角色把事情做好，適應這個角色 謝謝大家。 （掌聲）
