Talk	en	zh-tw
harald_haas_wireless_data_from_every_light_bulb	"Do you know that we have 1.4 million cellular radio masts deployed worldwide? And these are base stations. And we also have more than five billion of these devices here. These are cellular mobile phones. And with these mobile phones, we transmit more than 600 terabytes of data every month. This is a 6 with 14 zeroes — a very large number. And wireless communications has become a utility like electricity and water. We use it everyday. We use it in our everyday lives now — in our private lives, in our business lives. And we even have to be asked sometimes, very kindly, to switch off the mobile phone at events like this for good reasons. And it's this importance why I decided to look into the issues that this technology has, because it's so fundamental to our lives. And one of the issues is capacity. The way we transmit wireless data is by using electromagnetic waves — in particular, radio waves. And radio waves are limited. They are scarce; they are expensive; and we only have a certain range of it. And it's this limitation that doesn't cope with the demand of wireless data transmissions and the number of bytes and data which are transmitted every month. And we are simply running out of spectrum. There's another problem. That is efficiency. These 1.4 million cellular radio masts, or base stations, consume a lot of energy. And mind you, most of the energy is not used to transmit the radio waves, it is used to cool the base stations. Then the efficiency of such a base station is only at about five percent. And that creates a big problem. Then there's another issue that you're all aware of. You have to switch off your mobile phone during flights. In hospitals, they are security issues. And security is another issue. These radio waves penetrate through walls. They can be intercepted, and somebody can make use of your network if he has bad intentions. So these are the main four issues. But on the other hand, we have 14 billion of these: light bulbs, light. And light is part of the electromagnetic spectrum. So let's look at this in the context of the entire electromagnetic spectrum, where we have gamma rays. You don't want to get close to gamma rays, it could be dangerous. X-rays, useful when you go to hospitals. Then there's ultraviolet light. it's good for a nice suntan, but otherwise dangerous for the human body. Infrared — due to eye safety regulations, can be only used with low power. And then we have the radio waves, they have the issues I've just mentioned. And in the middle there, we have this visible light spectrum. It's light, and light has been around for many millions of years. And in fact, it has created us, has created life, has created all the stuff of life. So it's inherently safe to use. And wouldn't it be great to use that for wireless communications? Not only that, I compared [it to] the entire spectrum. I compared the radio waves spectrum — the size of it — with the size of the visible light spectrum. And guess what? We have 10,000 times more of that spectrum, which is there for us to use. So not only do we have this huge amount of spectrum, let's compare that with a number I've just mentioned. We have 1.4 million expensively deployed, inefficient radio cellular base stations. And multiply that by 10,000, then you end up at 14 billion. 14 billion is the number of light bulbs installed already. So we have the infrastructure there. Look at the ceiling, you see all these light bulbs. Go to the main floor, you see these light bulbs. Can we use them for communications? Yes. What do we need to do? The one thing we need to do is we have to replace these inefficient incandescent light bulbs, florescent lights, with this new technology of LED, LED light bulbs. An LED is a semiconductor. It's an electronic device. And it has a very nice acute property. Its intensity can be modulated at very high speeds, and it can be switched off at very high speeds. And this is a fundamental basic property that we exploit with our technology. So let's show how we do that. Let's go to the closest neighbor to the visible light spectrum — go to remote controls. You all know remote controls have an infrared LED — basically you switch on the LED, and if it's off, you switch it off. And it creates a simple, low-speed data stream in 10,000 bits per second, 20,000 bits per second. Not usable for a YouTube video. What we have done is we have developed a technology with which we can furthermore replace the remote control of our light bulb. We transmit with our technology, not only a single data stream, we transmit thousands of data streams in parallel, at even higher speeds. And the technology we have developed — it's called SIM OFDM. And it's spacial modulation — these are the only technical terms, I'm not going into details — but this is how we enabled that light source to transmit data. You will say, ""Okay, this is nice — a slide created in 10 minutes."" But not only that. What we've done is we have also developed a demonstrator. And I'm showing for the first time in public this visible light demonstrator. And what we have here is no ordinary desk lamp. We fit in an LED light bulb, worth three U.S. dollars, put in our signal processing technology. And then what we have here is a little hole. And the light goes through that hole. There's a receiver. The receiver will convert these little, subtle changes in the amplitude that we create there into an electrical signal. And that signal is then converted back to a high-speed data stream. In the future we hope that we can integrate this little hole into these smart phones. And not only integrate a photo detector here, but maybe use the camera inside. So what happens when I switch on that light? As you would expect, it's a light, a desk lamp. Put your book beneath it and you can read. It's illuminating the space. But at the same time, you see this video coming up here. And that's a video, a high-definition video that is transmitted through that light beam. You're critical. You think, ""Ha, ha, ha. This is a smart academic doing a little bit of tricks here."" But let me do this. (Applause) Once again. Still don't believe? It is this light that transmits this high-definition video in a split stream. And if you look at the light, it is illuminating as you would expect. You don't notice with your human eye. You don't notice the subtle changes in the amplitude that we impress onto this light bulb. It's serving the purpose of illumination, but at the same time, we are able to transmit this data. And you see, even light from the ceiling comes down here to the receiver. It can ignore that constant light, because all the receiver's interested in are subtle changes. You also have a critical question now, and you say, ""Okay, do I have to have the light on all the time to have this working?"" And the answer is yes. But, you can dim down the light to a level that it appears to be off. And you are still able to transmit data — that's possible. So I've mentioned to you the four challenges. Capacity: We have 10,000 times more spectrum, 10,000 times more LEDs installed already in the infrastructure there. You would agree with me, hopefully, there's no issue of capacity anymore. Efficiency: This is data through illumination — it's first of all an illumination device. And if you do the energy budget, the data transmission comes for free — highly energy efficient. I don't mention the high energy efficiency of these LED light bulbs. If the whole world would deploy them, you would save hundreds of power plants. That's aside. And then I've mentioned the availability. You will agree with me that we have lights in the hospital. You need to see what to do. You have lights in an aircraft. So it's everywhere in a day there is light. Look around. Everywhere. Look at your smart phone. It has a flashlight, an LED flashlight. These are potential sources for high-speed data transmission. And then there's security. You would agree with me that light doesn't penetrate through walls. So no one, if I have a light here, if I have secure data, no one on the other side of this room through that wall would be able to read that data. And there's only data where there is light. So if I don't want that receiver to receive the data, then what I could do, turn it away. So the data goes in that direction, not there anymore. Now we can in fact see where the data is going to. So for me, the applications of it, to me, are beyond imagination at the moment. We have had a century of very nice, smart application developers. And you only have to notice, where we have light, there is a potential way to transmit data. But I can give you a few examples. Well you may see the impact already now. This is a remote operated vehicle beneath the ocean. And they use light to illuminate space down there. And this light can be used to transmit wireless data that these things [use] to communicate with each other. Intrinsically safe environments like this petrochemical plant — you can't use RF, it may generate antenna sparks, but you can use light — you see plenty of light there. In hospitals, for new medical instruments; in streets for traffic control. Cars have LED-based headlights, LED-based back lights, and cars can communicate with each other and prevent accidents in the way that they exchange information. Traffic lights can communicate to the car and so on. And then you have these millions of street lamps deployed around the world. And every street lamp could be a free access point. We call it, in fact, a Li-Fi, light-fidelity. And then we have these aircraft cabins. There are hundreds of lights in an aircraft cabin, and each of these lights could be a potential transmitter of wireless data. So you could enjoy your most favorite TED video on your long flight back home. Online life. So that is a vision, I think, that is possible. So, all we would need to do is to fit a small microchip to every potential illumination device. And this would then combine two basic functionalities: illumination and wireless data transmission. And it's this symbiosis that I personally believe could solve the four essential problems that face us in wireless communication these days. And in the future, you would not only have 14 billion light bulbs, you may have 14 billion Li-Fis deployed worldwide — for a cleaner, a greener, and even a brighter future. Thank you. (Applause)"	"你知道全世界手機通訊天線桿的數量已達140萬這是基地台此外還有50億以上手持裝置也就是蜂窩手機手機的資料傳輸量每個月計算總共有600兆bits6後面加上14個0極大的數字無線通訊已成為和水、電一樣的民生用品日常生活不可或缺私人領域，商業領域有時甚至必須非常客氣才能請來賓暫將手機關機譬如今天這裡的場合它的重要性,促使我決定探索這種技術與之相關的幾個議題因它對大家都至關重要 首先是承载量我們用來傳輸無線訊號的是電磁頻譜中的無線電波無線電波的承载量有限頻寬稀有,費用也貴能用的只有幾個波段這個資源和每個月手機傳輸資料量的需求根本難以相提並論頻譜資源誠然已達枯竭第二個麻煩是：效能這140萬個手機基地台全都高秏電更重要的是, 大部分所耗的電還不是用來打出無線電波而是用來冷卻基地台每支基地台的效能大約只有5%而已問題不小第三個問題,大家都注意到了飛機上,醫院裡,會告知您「請關機」這些場所,無可避免因儀器操作安全性理由禁用無線電第4點,資料傳輸的安全性無線電波穿得透牆壁有心人可以解碼竊取你的資料,作非法用途竊取你的資料,作非法用途 無線電波通訊總共有以上4個問題但另一方面,我們卻有140億顆燈泡燈泡代表:光資源光也是電磁頻譜的一部份我們就來看一下整個電磁波頻譜中,最右邊伽瑪射線,這個絕對要遠離,極端危險X射線,上醫院才用再來是紫外線曬出特定膚色很好用否則對人體有害紅外線由於眼部保健的原因規定只能用低頻的部份最左是無線電波,剛說過它的瓶頸在電磁波譜差不多中央地帶有個可見光的部份也就是光有地球的第一天就有光事實上,光孕育了我們這些生命體光創造了周遭萬千種種生命光創造了周遭萬千種種生命當然是很安全可用的那為什麼我們不能用它來做無線電波傳輸呢? 不僅如此,當我拿它來和無線電波頻寬相比不僅如此,我還拿它來和無線電波頻寬相比比它們在光譜上的範圍大小在光譜上的範圍大小結果是:光波段的頻譜要比無線電波寬了1萬倍!只等著我們去開發使用!所以不只是頻寬很大可以去用還有幾個數字也值得看一下做個比較140萬座手機基地台低能源效益昂貴且低效益140萬 x 10,000=140億140億正好是現有的燈具數量也就是說,基礎設施已經佈建完成!你們看吧,天花板,到處一樓大廳,都已經裝了很多燈泡 我們可以用它來做無線通訊傳輸嗎?可以怎麼做?首先要把這個白熱光燈炮並且不太節能的,日光燈炮改換成這個LED燈泡LED是半導體產品,電子元件有著一個很棒的極端特性它的密度可編碼轉換為高速資料流它的密度可編碼轉換為高速資料流熄燈亮燈都可以高速進行我們的技術就是利用這個特性開發出來的接下來我們看看這種技術要怎麼做先看在光譜上最近的隔壁鄰居遙控器大家都知道遙控器裡有個小LED燈泡,紅外線的按一下遙控器它就開,再按一下就關它發出單一低速的資料流每秒10k bits20k bits左右用來傳youtube 影片是不可能的 但若用我們開發出來的這種技術呢?首先把這個遙控器裡的LED換掉換成加入了我們的技術的LED用它來傳,不只是單一資料流用它來傳,不只單一資料流而是上千筆資料流平行,同步地傳並且速度更快這種技術叫做SIM OFDM是利用到第三維的「空間調變」技術技術細節在此點到為止總之,我們應用這種技術來以光線作無線傳輸用途 你會說,了不起10分鐘就搞定的一個簡報,誰知道真假?所以,不只說說而已我們做了一個現場示範機這是首度在公開場合曝光的一個可見光展示機台上面這是一隻普通檯燈裡頭改裝一顆LED燈泡價值美金3塊錢燈泡裡面加上了信號處理技術這裡有個小洞檯燈的光穿過這洞抵達下面的接收機接收機將微小的振幅變化-就是我們所賦予它的變化轉換為電子訊號電子訊號又被轉換成資料流高速資料流未來我們希望能將這個小洞整合到智慧手機裡不僅是整合一個光偵測器而可能是借用到裡面的照相模組 所以現在把燈炮打開會發生什麼事?當然啦,把書本攤開在一盞燈底下,一定可以閱讀它是個燈燈泡有照亮環境的功能但同時它也在傳送一個影片這個高解析度的影片是透過光束傳送的或許你有點存疑心裡想:哈哈,這只是一位聰明的大學教授在台上玩障眼法吧不過,我證明給你看 (掌聲) 還不相信的話再來一次真的是這個光在傳輸這支高解析度的影片,以分流的方式所看到的光線卻和你居家用來照明的光一樣肉眼察覺不出任何不同我們其實透過燈泡在這光裡壓縮了一些極微小的振幅變化它既提供照明同時也傳輸資料即便天花板有好多燈泡的光打下來在講台這邊接收機卻可以忽略那些連續性光源因為它只對有著特定的微小頻段變化的部分有反應您或許還有些這樣那樣挑剔的問題「那我們豈不是不能關燈啦不然它就不工作了,是嗎?」答案是:沒錯。不過,可以把燈光轉得很暗只要很暗就行,不用全關這樣資料還是會繼續傳輸,是可行的 所以我已經跟各位介紹過四個無線通訊的瓶頸1. 承载量有1萬倍的頻寬用LED的話而其基礎設施已經是現成的相信各位能同意我的看法:也就是,承载量不再是問題其次,節能這是運用燈具傳資料燈是基本一定要開的這樣一來你算能源開銷時資料傳輸項目等於免費高節能,費用低還不提LED燈本身就是高度節能的燈具要是全世界都改裝LED燈具的話發電廠可以關掉幾百座那是題外話 繼續往下,可用性相信您必定同意,醫院也要開燈否則就伸手不見五指啦飛機上也要開燈,照樣到處都有燈光看一下,到處,包括智慧手機還都裝上了手電筒,也是LED手電筒全都是可以用來當做高速資料傳輸的設備 最後,資料內容安全性這很簡單光總不會穿透牆壁吧所以如果我在這裡用這光傳機密資料隔牆的人是不可能讀得到這資料的非要有光才能收資料那要是我不想讓接收器收到資料我可以把燈轉個頭轉一個方向,資料朝向那邊,接收器就收不到了現在我們其實可以看到資料會去向哪個方向 對我而言這個技術的應用是遠比想像的還美好我們已有許多很棒的智慧產品應用開發商只要注意哪裏有燈哪裡就有潛在應用我可以跟各位講其中一些應用你現在已經可以看出其中一些影響力這是一艘遙控運輸器在海底所以必須有燈光來提供照明而這個燈就同時也能負責傳輸資料這些運輸器彼此之間也就能通訊 極端要求安全的場所比方是這座石油化學廠你不能用無線電,它有可能使天線爆出火花但是光,沒這個麻煩,圖中已看到不少的燈在那兒醫院新的醫療設備街道上的交通號誌很多車子如今都是配備LED的頭燈和尾燈車輛之間彼此可以通訊可以預防事故如果它們彼此交換著資訊的話紅綠燈也能對車輛通訊街燈,少說也有幾百萬盞全世界總量要是每盞街燈都變成一個存取點我們稱之為Li-Fi光傳真(相對於Wi-Fi,無線高傳真)飛機座艙至少也有幾百盞個別的小燈每一盞小燈都可以成為無線資訊的潛在傳輸器具這樣你就可以享受最棒的TED演講影片在回家途中的飛機上這就是未來的網路生活。我認為這個理想在未來是可行的 我們需要做的只是把一顆微晶片放到每個可能成為傳輸體的燈具裡這會結合兩個基本功能照明和無線資料傳輸正是這種共生關係，我個人認為可以化解決前述四大問題是今日無線通必須面對的未來您將不只有140億顆燈泡而是有140億座""Li-Fi""存取點全球各處都有更乾淨更環保更亮更美好的未來 謝謝 (掌聲)"
