Talk	en	zh-tw
harish_manwani_profit_s_not_always_the_point	"The entire model of capitalism and the economic model that you and I did business in, and, in fact, continue to do business in, was built around what probably Milton Friedman put more succinctly. And Adam Smith, of course,  the father of modern economics actually said many, many years ago, the invisible hand, which is, ""If you continue to operate in your own self-interest you will do the best good for society."" Now, capitalism has done a lot of good things and I've talked about a lot of good  things that have happened, but equally, it has not been able to meet up with some of the challenges that we've seen in society. The model that at least I was brought up in and a lot of us doing business were brought up in was one which talked about what I call the three G's of growth: growth that is consistent, quarter on quarter; growth that is competitive, better than the other person; and growth that is profitable, so you continue to make more and more shareholder value. And I'm afraid this is not going to be good enough and we have to move from this 3G model to a model of what I call the fourth G: the G of growth that is responsible. And it is this that has to become a very important part of creating value. Of not just creating economic value but creating social value. And companies that will thrive are those that will actually embrace the fourth G. And the model of 4G is quite simple: Companies cannot afford  to be just innocent bystanders in what's happening around in society. They have to begin to play their role in terms of serving the communities which actually sustain them. And we have to move to a model of an and/and model which is how do we make money and do good? How do we make sure that we have a great business but we also have a great environment around us? And that model is all about doing well and doing good. But the question is easier said than done. But how do we actually get that done? And I do believe that the answer to that is going to be leadership. It is going to be to redefine the new business models which understand that the only license to operate is to combine these things. And for that you need businesses that can actually define their role in society in terms of a much larger purpose than the products and brands that they sell. And companies that actually define a true north, things that are nonnegotiable whether times are good, bad, ugly — doesn't matter. There are things that you stand for. Values and purpose are going to be the two drivers of software that are going to create the companies of tomorrow. And I'm going to now shift to talking a little bit about my own experiences. I joined Unilever in 1976 as a management trainee in India. And on my first day of work I walked in and my boss tells me, ""Do you know why you're here?"" I said, ""I'm here to sell a lot of soap."" And he said,  ""No, you're here to change lives."" You're here to change lives. You know, I thought it was rather facetious. We are a company that sells soap and soup. What are we doing about changing lives? And it's then I realized that simple acts like selling a bar of soap can save more lives than pharmaceutical companies. I don't know how many of you know that five million children don't reach the age of five because of simple infections that can be prevented by an act of washing their hands with soap. We run the largest hand-washing program in the world. We are running a program on hygiene and health that now touches half a billion people. It's not about selling soap, there is a larger purpose out there. And brands indeed can be at the forefront of social change. And the reason for that is, when two billion people use your brands that's the amplifier. Small actions can make a big difference. Take another example, I was walking around in  one of our villages in India. Now those of you who have done this will realize that this is no walk in the park. And we had this lady who was one of our small distributors — beautiful, very, very modest, her home — and she was out there, dressed nicely, her husband in the back, her mother-in-law behind and her sister-in-law behind her. The social order was changing because this lady is part of our Project Shakti that is actually teaching women how to do small business and how to carry the message of nutrition and hygiene. We have 60,000 such women now in India. It's not about selling soap, it's about making sure that in the process of doing so you can change people's lives. Small actions, big difference. Our R&D folks are not only working to give us  some fantastic detergents, but they're working to make sure we use less water. A product that we've just launched recently, One Rinse product that allows you to save water every time you wash your clothes. And if we can convert all our users to using this, that's 500 billion liters of water. By the way, that's equivalent to one month of water for a whole huge continent. So just think about it. There are small actions that  can make a big difference. And I can go on and on. Our food chain, our brilliant products — and I'm sorry I'm giving you  a word from the sponsors — Knorr, Hellman's and all those wonderful products. We are committed to making sure that all our agricultural raw materials are sourced from sustainable sources, 100-percent sustainable sources. We were the first to say we are going to buy all of our palm oil from sustainable sources. I don't know how many of you know that palm oil, and not buying it from sustainable sources, can create deforestation that is responsible for 20 percent of the greenhouse gasses in the world. We were the first to embrace that, and it's all because we market soap and soup. And the point I'm making here is that companies like yours, companies like mine have to define a purpose which embraces responsibility and understands that we have to play our part in the communities in which we operate. We introduced something called The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, which said, ""Our purpose is to make  sustainable living commonplace, and we are gong to change the lives of one billion people over 2020."" Now the question here is, where do we go from here? And the answer to that is very simple: We're not going to change the world alone. There are plenty of you and plenty of us who understand this. The question is, we need partnerships, we need coalitions and importantly, we need that leadership that will allow us to take this from here and to be the change that we want to see around us. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	我們一直使用的整個資本主義模式和經濟學模型事實上我們會一直使用下去的模型都是圍繞著彌爾頓·弗裡德曼理論而來他言簡意賅地點出過它們而經濟學之父亞當·斯密，在很久之前也這樣說：「看不見的手」意思是「如果每個人都自利地行事，意思是「如果每個人都自利地行事，社會利益就能最大化。」 現今，資本主義做了很多好事我也說了很多已經發生好事不過同樣地，資本主義並沒有解決一些社會難題一些社會難題有個我一直遵循的模型很多學者也一直遵循這個模型很多學者也一直遵循這個模型我叫它「3G增長模型」：持續性增長（第一個Growth）—下季度比這季度多競爭式增長（第二個Growth）—要比其他人強利潤化增長（第三個Growth）—從而可以獲取越來越多的股東價值然而我擔心這些還不夠好所以我們要用一個新模型來完善3G模型我叫它「第四個G」：有責任的增長（第四個Growth）它在創造價值的過程中起到很重要的作用起到很重要的作用不僅僅是創造經濟價值還有創造社會價值繁榮發展的企業勢必接納了這「第四個G」「4G增長模型」並不複雜：社會變遷時企業不能只當個無知的旁觀者社區支持著企業企業就必須扮演服務社區的角色因此我們必須採用另一個模型怎樣才能既賺錢，又對社會有益？我們如何保障既發展了企業又不破壞優良的環境？上述的模型可謂盡善盡美 不過問題是知易行難這一切要如何實現？我確信答案是領導力這將會重新定義新的商業模型這些模型認可要想進行商業運作只有把這些東西結合起來才行因此，你的企業必須重新來定義自己在社會中的角色企業目標必須更廣大而不侷限在所銷售的產品和品牌那些能夠找到正確方向的企業對這些事有不容置喙的態度不倫世道是好，還是不好，甚至惡劣 —這些都不重要你必須堅持一些東西價值觀和目的性將成為創造未來企業的創造未來企業的兩大原動力 下面，我將轉移話題談談我的一點經歷我在1976年加入聯合利華印度分公司作一個管理培訓生上班的第一天我進了辦公室，我的老闆問我：「你知道你為什麼來這裡嗎？」我回答：「我來這裡要賣很多的肥皂。」然後他說：「不對，你是來改變人們的生活。」為了改變人們的生活，你來到這裡。你知道，我認為這種說法很好笑我們是個賣肥皂和湯的企業怎麼會改變別人的生活呢？那時我意識到簡單的行動像賣一塊肥皂就能比醫藥公司救治更多的人我不知道你們有多少人了解（全球）有500萬兒童活不到五歲因為他們沒有肥皂洗手導致得了簡單的感染而死去 我們策劃了全球最大的洗手項目我們正在進行一個衛生健康項目現在已經擴展到了五億人的規模這不再是賣肥皂了而是一個更偉大的目標品牌的確可以成為社會變革的先驅者原因在於當有20億人使用你的品牌產品就會產生擴張效應微小的行動會有偉大的影響 再舉一個例子當我步行在印度的一個村莊上如果你這樣做過就會知道這可不是公園裡散步有這樣一位女士她曾經是我們的一個代理她美麗，非常謙遜她站在家門口打扮得體她的丈夫站在背後，後面是她的婆婆身後是她的小姑子社會地位的排序正在變化因為這位女士是我們Shakti項目的一員這個項目培訓女性如何打理小買賣如何傳播營養和衛生的信息如何傳播營養和衛生的資訊在印度，我們有6萬這樣的女性 這不再是賣肥皂這是為了確保在這個過程中你可以改變人們的生活小行動，大變化 我們的研發團隊並不僅僅研發了優秀的洗滌劑他們還確保了我們能用更少的水最近我們發佈了一個產品叫做「一滴清」，用它洗衣服能節約用水如果能讓我們所有的顧客都用上它就能節約5000億升的水順便提一下，那可是一整塊大陸一個月的用水量所以想想看吧小小的舉動就能帶來如此大的變化 我還可以繼續說下去我們的食物供應鏈，我們出色的產品 —對不起給各位插播一個廣告 —Knorr，Hellman這些公司生產了很棒的產品我們致力於確保我們所有的農產品原材料都來自於可再生資源百分百的可再生資源 我們是第一個宣佈我們購買的棕櫚油都是來自可再生資源的企業我不知道多少在座的朋友知道棕櫚油如果不是從可再生資源處獲取就會造成森林砍伐產生占總量20％的全球溫室氣體我們是最先支持這些的全是因為我們賣肥皂和湯我想說的是像在座的公司們，就像我的公司一樣必須形成一個目標來承擔責任並且明白我們必須在我們運作的社區裡扮演好自己的那份角色 我們引入了一個計劃叫做「聯合利華可持續生活計劃」：「我們的目標是：建立可持續生活的家園，我們將在2020年改變10億人的生活」現在問題來了我們如何做到？答案很簡單：我們不會單槍匹馬地改變世界我們有足夠的大眾，就像你我這樣理解這一切問題在於我們還需要夥伴，需要聯盟更重要的是，我們需要領導力這些可以引導我們從我們身邊的改變開始做起從我們身邊的改變開始做起非常感謝大家！（掌聲）
