Talk	en	zh-tw
harsha_bhogle_the_rise_of_cricket_the_rise_of_india	"So, what I'm going to do is just give you the latest episode of India's — maybe the world's — longest running soap opera, which is cricket. And may it run forever, because it gives people like me a living. It's got everything that you'd want a normal soap opera to want: It's got love, joy, happiness, sadness, tears, laughter, lots of deceit, intrigue. And like all good soaps, it jumps 20 years when the audience interest changes. And that's exactly what cricket has done. It's jumped 20 years into 20-over game. And that's what I'm going to talk about, how a small change leads to a very big revolution. But it wasn't always like that. Cricket wasn't always this speed-driven generations game. There was a time when you played cricket, you played timeless test matches, when you played on till the game got over. And there was this game in March 1939 that started on the third of March and ended on the 14th of March. And it only ended because the English cricketers had to go from Durban to Cape Town, which is a two-hour train journey, to catch the ship that left on the 17th, because the next ship wasn't around for a long time. So, the match was ended in between. And one of the English batsmen said, ""You know what? Another half an hour and we would have won."" (Laughter) Another half an hour after 12 days. There were two Sundays in between. But of course, Sundays are church days, so you don't play on Sundays. And one day it rained, so they all sat around making friends with each other. But there is a reason why India fell in love with cricket: because we had about the same pace of life. (Laughter) The Mahabharata was like that as well, wasn't it? You fought by day, then it was sunset, so everyone went back home. And then you worked out your strategy, and you came and fought the next day, and you went back home again. The only difference between the Mahabharata and our cricket was that in cricket, everybody was alive to come back and fight the next day. Princes patronize the game, not because they love the game, but because it was a means of ingratiating themselves to the British rulers. But there is one other reason why India fell in love with cricket, which was, all you needed was a plank of wood and a rubber ball, and any number of people could play it anywhere. Take a look: You could play it in the dump with some rocks over there, you could play it in a little alley — you couldn't hit square anywhere, because the bat hit the wall; don't forget the air conditioning and the cable wires. (Laughter) You could play it on the banks of the Ganges — that's as clean as the Ganges has been for a long time. Or you could play many games in one small patch of land, even if you didn't know which game you were actually in. (Laughter) As you can see, you can play anywhere. But slowly the game moved on, you know, finally. You don't always have five days. So, we moved on, and we started playing 50-over cricket. And then an enormous accident took place. In Indian sport we don't make things happen, accidents happen and we're in the right place at the right time, sometimes. And we won this World Cup in 1983. And suddenly we fell in love with the 50-over game, and we played it virtually every day. There was more 50-over cricket than anywhere. But there was another big date. 1983 was when we won the World Cup. 1991,'92, we found a finance minister and a prime minister willing to let the world look at India, rather than be this great country of intrigue and mystery in this closed country. And so we allowed multinationals into India. We cut customs duties, we reduced import duties, and we got all the multinationals coming in, with multinational budgets, who looked at per-capita income and got very excited about the possibilities in India, and were looking for a vehicle to reach every Indian. And there are only two vehicles in India — one real, one scripted. The scripted one is what you see in the movies, the real one was cricket. And so one of my friends sitting right here in front of me, Ravi Dhariwal from Pepsi, decided he's going to take it all over the world. And Pepsi was this big revolution, because they started taking cricket all over. And so cricket started becoming big; cricket started bringing riches in. Television started covering cricket. For a long time television said, ""We won't cover cricket unless you pay us to cover it."" Then they said, ""OK, the next rights are sold for 55 million dollars. The next rights are sold for 612 million dollars."" So, it's a bit of a curve, that. And then another big accident happened in our cricket. England invented 20 overs cricket, and said, ""The world must play 20 overs cricket."" Just as England invented cricket, and made the rest of the world play it. Thank God for them. (Laughter) And so, India had to go and play the T20 World Cup, you see. India didn't want to play the T20 World Cup. But we were forced to play it by an 8-1 margin. And then something very dramatic happened. We got to the final, and then this moment, that will remain enshrined forever, for everybody, take a look. (Crowd cheering) The Pakistani batsman trying to clear the fielder. Announcer: And Zishan takes it! India wins! What a match for a Twenty20 final. India, the world champions. (Cheering) India, T20 champions. But what a game we had, M. S. Dhoni got it right in the air, but Misbah-ul-Haq, what a player. A massive, massive success: India, the world TT champions. Harsha Bhogle: Suddenly India discovered this power of 20-overs cricket. The accident, of course, there, was that the batsman thought the bowler was bowling fast. (Laughter) If he had bowled fast, the ball would have gone where it was meant to go, but it didn't go. And we suddenly discovered that we could be good at this game. And what it also did was it led to a certain pride in the fact that India could be the best in the world. It was at a time when investment was coming in, India was feeling a little more confident about itself. And so there was a feeling that there was great pride in what we can do. And thankfully for all of us, the English are very good at inventing things, and then the gracious people that they are, they let the world become very good at it. (Laughter) And so England invented T20 cricket, and allowed India to hijack it. It was not like reengineering that we do in medicine, we just took it straight away, as is. (Laughter) And so, we launched our own T20 league. Six weeks, city versus city. It was a new thing for us. We had only ever supported our country — the only two areas in which India was very proud about their country, representing itself on the field. One was war, the Indian army, which we don't like to happen very often. The other was Indian cricket. Now, suddenly we had to support city leagues. But the people getting into these city leagues were people who were taking their cues from the West. America is a home of leagues. And they said, ""Right, we'll build some glitzy leagues here in India."" But was India ready for it? Because cricket, for a long time in India was always organized. It was never promoted, it was never sold — it was organized. And look what they did with our beautiful, nice, simple family game. All of a sudden, you had that happening. (Music) An opening ceremony to match every other. This was an India that was buying Corvettes. This was an India that was buying Jaguar. This was an India that was adding more mobile phones per month than New Zealand's population twice over. So, it was a different India. But it was also a slightly more orthodox India that was very happy to be modern, but didn't want to say that to people. And so, they were aghast when the cheerleaders arrived. Everyone secretly watched them, but everyone claimed not to. (Music) (Laughter) The new owners of Indian cricket were not the old princes. They were not bureaucrats who were forced into sport because they didn't actually love it; these were people who ran serious companies. And so they started promoting cricket big time, started promoting clubs big time. And they've started promoting them with huge money behind it. I mean the IPL had 2.3 billion dollars before a ball was bowled, 1.6 billion dollars for television revenue over 10 years, and another 70 million dollars plus from all these franchises that were putting in money. And then they had to appeal to their cities, but they had to do it like the West, right? Because we are setting up leagues. But what they were very good at doing was making it very localized. So, just to give you an example of how they did it — not Manchester United style promotion, but very Mumbai style promotion. Take a look. (Music) Of course, a lot of people said, ""Maybe they dance better than they play."" (Laughter) But that's all right. What it did also is it changed the way we looked at cricket. All along, if you wanted a young cricketer, you picked him up from the bylanes of your own little locality, your own city, and you were very proud of the system that produced those cricketers. Now, all of the sudden, if you were to bowl a shot — if Mumbai were to bowl a shot, for example, they needn't go to Kalbadevi or Shivaji Park or somewhere to source them, they could go to Trinidad. This was the new India, wasn't it? This was the new world, where you can source from anywhere as long as you get the best product at the best price. And all of a sudden, Indian sport had awakened to the reality that you can source the best product for the best price anywhere in the world. So, the Mumbai Indians flew in Dwayne Bravo from Trinidad and Tobago, overnight. And when he had to go back to represent the West Indies, they asked him, ""When do you have to reach?"" He said, ""I have to be there by a certain time, so I have to leave today."" We said, ""No, no, no. It's not about when you have to leave; it's about when do you have to reach there?"" And so he said, ""I've got to reach on date X."" And they said, ""Fine, you play to date X, minus one."" So, he played in Hyderabad, went, straight after the game, went from the stadium to Hyderabad airport, sat in a private corporate jet — first refueling in Portugal, second refueling in Brazil; he was in West Indies in time. (Laughter) Never would India have thought on this scale before. Never would India have said, ""I want a player to play one game for me, and I will use a corporate jet to send him all the way back to Kingston, Jamaica to play a game."" And I just thought to myself, ""Wow, we've arrived somewhere in the world, you know? We have arrived somewhere. We are thinking big."" But what this also did was it started marrying the two most important things in Indian cricket, which is cricket and the movies in Indian entertainment. There is cricket and the movies. And they came together because people in the movies now started owning clubs. And so, people started going to the cricket to watch Preity Zinta. They started going to the cricket to watch Shah Rukh Khan. And something very interesting happened. We started getting song and dance in Indian cricket. And so it started resembling the Indian movies more and more. And of course, if you were on Preity Zinta's team — as you will see on the clip that follows — if you did well, you got a hug from Preity Zinta. So that was the ultimate reason to do well. Take a look — everyone's watching Preity Zinta. (Music) And then of course there was Shah Rukh playing the Kolkata crowd. We'd all seen matches in Kolkata, but we'd never seen anything like this: Shah Rukh, with the Bengali song, getting the audiences all worked up for Kolkata — not for India, but for Kolkata. But take a look at this. (Music) An Indian film star hugging a Pakistani cricketer because they'd won in Kolkata. Can you imagine? And do you know what the Pakistani cricketer said? (Applause) ""I wish I was playing for Preity Zinta's team."" (Laughter) But I thought I'd take this opportunity — there's a few people from Pakistan in here. I'm so happy that you're here because I think we can show that we can both be together and be friends, right? We can play cricket together, we can be friends. So thank you very much for coming, all of you from Pakistan. (Applause) There was criticism too because they said, ""Players are being bought and sold? Are they grain? Are they cattle?"" Because we had this auction, you see. How do you fix a price for a player? And so the auction that followed literally had people saying, ""Bang! so many million dollars for so-and-so player."" There it is. (Music) Auctioneer: Going at 1,500,000 dollars. Chennai. Shane Warne sold for 450,000 dollars. HB: Suddenly, a game which earned its players 50 rupees a day — so 250 rupees for a test match, but if you finish in four days you only got 200. The best Indian players who played every test match — every one of the internationals, the top of the line players — standard contracts are 220,000 dollars in a whole year. Now they were getting 500,000 for six days' work. Then Andrew Flintoff came by from England, he got one and a half million dollars, and he went back and said, ""For four weeks, I'm earning more than Frank Lampard and Steven Gerrard, and I'm earning more than the footballers, wow."" And where was he earning it from? From a little club in India. Could you have imagined that day would come? One and a half million dollars for six weeks' work. That's not bad, is it? So, at 2.3 billion dollars before the first ball was bowled. What India was doing, though, was benchmarking itself against the best in the world, and it became a huge brand. Lalit Modi was on the cover of Business Today. IPL became the biggest brand in India and, because our elections, had to be moved to South Africa, and we had to start the tournament in three weeks. Move a whole tournament to South Africa in three weeks. But we did it. You know why? Because no country works as slowly as we do till three weeks before an event, and nobody works fast as we do in the last three weeks. (Applause) Our population, which for a long time we thought was a problem, suddenly became our biggest asset because there were more people watching — the huge consuming class — everybody came to watch the cricket. We'd also made cricket the only sport in India, which is a pity, but in India every other sport pushes cricket to become big, which is a bit of a tragedy of our times. Now, this last minute before I go — there's a couple of side effects of all this. For a long time, India was this country of poverty, dust, beggars, snake charmers, filth, Delhi belly — people heard Delhi belly stories before they came. And, all of a sudden, India was this land of opportunity. Cricketers all over the world said, ""You know, we love India. We love to play in India."" And that felt good, you know? We said, ""The dollar's quite powerful actually."" Can you imagine, you've got the dollar on view and there's no Delhi belly in there anymore. There's no filth, there's no beggars, all the snake charmers have vanished, everybody's gone. This tells you how the capitalist world rules. Right so, finally, an English game that India usurped a little bit, but T20 is going to be the next missionary in the world. If you want to take the game around the world, it's got to be the shortest form of the game. You can't take a timeless test to China and sit through 14 days with no result in the end, or you can't take it all over the world. So that's what T20 is doing. Hopefully, it'll make everyone richer, hopefully it'll make the game bigger and hopefully it'll give cricket commentators more time in the business. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我要為大家介紹的是最新一集的印度連續劇這也可能是世界上最長的一齣連續劇那就是－－板球它可能永遠不會播完結篇，因為有像我一樣的人還得靠它吃飯它也跟一般的連續劇一樣，包含了所有的要素有愛、歡樂、幸福有悲傷、淚水、歡笑也有一籮筐的騙局和陰謀也像所有好看的連續劇一樣，當觀眾想換換口味時它也可以快轉個20年這正是板球帶給我們的它快轉了20年出現了一局只打20回合的比賽這就是今天的主題一個小小的改變如何引起一場大革命 不過，也不是一向如此板球不是一直都像現在是個速食族群的比賽曾經，在板球比賽中也曾打過不限時的對抗賽就一直打、打到有結果為止就像1939年3月的一場比賽3月3日開賽一直打到3月14日才結束比賽結束的原因是因為英格蘭隊隊員不得不從德班（南非一城市）搭兩個小時的火車到開普敦（南非首府）去趕一班17日要離港的船因為，還要很久才會再有下一班船因此，比賽被迫中止英格蘭隊的一位打擊手說：「你知道嗎？要是再多半個小時，我們就會贏了」（笑聲）12天後，那半個小時到來了但這中間包括了兩個星期天。因為星期天要上教堂所以不比賽。此外還有其中一天下雨所以他們就坐一起交個朋友 印度人會愛上板球的原因是因為它和我們生活的步調一致（笑聲）摩訶婆羅多就是這樣，不是嗎？（梵文史詩，世上最長史詩之一）天亮時開戰，直到太陽下山就各自回家去策劃你的戰略隔天回到戰場，然後天黑時又再回家摩訶婆羅多和板球唯一的不同點是在板球比賽中，所有人都活著回家，然後隔天再戰王公貴族們都會支持球賽但並不是因為他們熱愛板球而是因為他們可以藉此來融入英國統治者的圈圈 還有另一個原因讓印度人愛上板球那就是，你只需要一塊木板和一顆皮球，然後不管多少人你都可以在任何地方玩請看你可以在垃圾場裡打還有一些石頭在那兒咧你也可以在小巷子裡打但你沒辦法九十度揮棒，因為你會打到牆別忘了，還要小心那些冷氣機和天線（笑聲）你也可以在恆河岸邊打恆河已經這麼乾淨很久了也可以在一塊小場地上同時進行好幾場比賽就算你可能不知道你到底是在打哪一場（笑聲）如你所見，隨處都可以打板球但，漸漸地，球賽有所進化嗯，終於！ 畢竟不是大家都有五天的時間悠哉打球。所以，板球有了進化開始有了50回合的比賽（一局50回合）接著，一項重大事件發生了通常在印度，我們不強求事情發生事情只是在對的地點、對的時間、恰巧發生了就這樣，我們贏了1983年的世界盃剎那間，也愛上了50回合的單日賽我們每一天都打板球50回合的賽事比哪兒都多 但還有另一個重要的日子1983年是我們贏得世界盃之時而1991,、92年，來了一位財務大臣和一位首相想要讓世界看到真正的印度而不只是看到一個神祕且封閉的國家於是，我們開放跨國公司進入印度降低進出口關稅所有的跨國公司都來了他們帶著大筆的預算他們看著印度人民的個人所得而對印度的發展可能性感到樂觀也試著尋找一個可以深入印度人民的媒介 要深入民心的方法只有兩種：一個是真實的，一個是要對著稿子的要對著稿子的是電影而真實的就是板球了我一位朋友，現在就坐在我正前方－－百事集團（Pepsi）的拉維·塔里弗（Ravi Tarival），決定把板球帶到全世界百事掀起了這場革命；他們開始把板球推展到各地板球活動於是變得壯大板球將財富帶進印度電視台開始轉播板球。很久以來，電視台總說：「我們不會轉播板球，除非你們付錢請我們播」他們說：「好」下個轉播權，賣了5500萬美金下個轉播權，賣了6億1200百萬美金有點像曲線一樣往上升 接著，又一項重大事件發生了英格蘭發明了20回合制的板球比賽然後宣布：「全世界都得打20回合制的板球」就因為英格蘭發明了板球，然後要全世界都一起玩真是謝謝老天爺呀～（笑聲）也因此，印度得去參加T20（20回合制）的世界盃印度根本不想去參加T20世界盃但八比一的投票結果，我們被迫去參加結果，很戲劇性的事發生了我們打進決賽，而這一刻會永遠的被所有人銘記在心～請看 （群眾歡呼聲） 巴基斯坦的打擊手試著打超過外野手 播音員：「被茲杉（Zishan）接殺了！印度奪冠！」多精采的一場20-20決賽啊印度隊，世界冠軍（歡呼聲）印度隊，T20冠軍多精采的一場比賽啊，我們的M S Dhoni直接接住那球。而巴基斯坦的Misbah-ul-Haq，也是個不可多得的好手大大的勝利印度隊，TT世界冠軍 瞬時間，印度發現了20回合制板球的威力整件事會發生，當然是因為那個巴基斯坦打擊手還以為我們的投手有辦法投快速球（笑聲）如果真的投快速球的話，那球就真的會被打到預期的位置了可是它沒有。所以我們突然發覺到我們有辦法打板球打很好除此之外也讓我們有了「印度也能是世界第一」的自信那時，外資開始湧入印度也對自己稍微比較有信心了我們也對自己能做到的事感到驕傲另外，值得感謝的是英國人很愛發明新東西而他們又很仁慈地讓全世界的人都能玩得很上手（笑聲）就像他們發明了T20板球然後就讓印度把它直接憑空帶走不是像對藥物還會再改造加工而是直接原封不動的拿去用（笑聲） 於是，我們推出了我們自己的T20聯賽六週間，城市對城市的比賽這是全新的體驗。過去我們只有支持過國家隊印度對自己國家感到驕傲的只有在兩個領域裡一是印度國民軍，但我們可不想戰爭常發生再者，就是印度板球隊了現在，突然間，我們得支持自己城市的球隊了不過主導這些城市聯賽的人都是照著西方的方式運作畢竟美國是聯賽的大本營。他們說：「好，我們在印度搞一些超強的聯賽吧」可是，印度準備好了嗎？長久以來，板球活動在印度都是官方策劃的從來沒有被宣傳過、被商品化過好啦，看看他們對我們善良、單純的家庭比賽做了什麼好事突然間，一切都發生了 （音樂） 每場比賽都有個開幕儀式這是一位印度人買了雪佛蘭汽車。另一位買了捷豹（積架）汽車。這一位每個月賣出的手機比紐西蘭人口的兩倍還多這是一個截然不同的印度但也是一個比較傳統的國家雖對現代化感到開心但又不想跟別人說所以，當啦啦隊出現時，他們嚇傻了每個人都偷偷看，但又不想承認 （音樂） （笑聲） 球隊的新老闆不是以前那些王公貴族也不是被逼來當老闆的官僚們那些人其實根本不愛板球現在這些都是大企業經營者他們開始大力地推行板球大力地宣傳球隊用大量的資金來宣傳甚至在球賽開打前印度超級板球聯賽就已有2.3億的資金其中，1.6億是10年電視轉播權的盈收另外加上賣出7000萬的經銷權接著他們要號召各個城市但他們又得辦得像在西方一樣，對吧？因為始終他們是要搞聯賽嘛不過他們的強項是在於把它辦得十分本土化給大家看個例子宣傳手法不是「曼聯式」的而是非常「孟買式」的，請看 （音樂） 當然，很多人說：他們的舞技大概比球技厲害吧（笑聲）不過，也是啦！這也將我們對板球的印象改觀了一直以來，如果你想要一個年輕的球員你會從自己的城市、地方上的小巷子裡找一個當然，這樣找選手的制度還會讓你感到驕傲然而，突然之間，如果你少一名投手以孟買來舉例，如果要找一名投手你不用只在喀巴德維（Kalbadevi）、或只在詩瓦及公園（Shivaji Park）這樣的地方找你可以飛到千里達去找喔這是個嶄新的印度，對吧？是個全新的世界只要你可以用最好的價錢、買到最好的選手你可以到世界各地挑選手突然間印度的運動甦醒、到了真實世界了你可以以最好的價格、買到最好的選手在全世界都行 於是，孟買印度人隊一夜間從千里達把Dwayne Bravo請來當他得飛回去代表西印度群島隊出賽時球隊問他：「你什麼時候之前要抵達？」DB：「我得在某個時間出場，所以我今天必須離開這裡」球隊說：「不、不、不，問題不是你什麼時候離開這兒，而是你什麼時候要抵達那兒？」DB說：「我一定要在x月x日之前抵達」球隊說：「那好，那你就可以打到x月x日的前一天」於是，他在海德拉巴（印度第六大城）打完比賽，直接從球場前往海德拉巴機場搭乘球隊專用噴射機，先到葡萄牙加一次油再到巴西加一次，然後準時抵達西印度群島隊（笑聲）從前的印度不可能會想到這個層次也不可能會說：「我要一個球員幫我打一場球，然後我用噴射機，把他送回牙買加的京斯敦，去打下一場球」我自己在想：「哇！我們到了不同的境界，你知道嗎？不同境界呀～我們有雄心壯志啊」 除此之外，這還在印度板球世界裡撮合了兩項重要的東西那就是板球和印度電影這就是板球與電影的結合他們之所以會結合，是因為電影明星們開始成為球隊老闆所以，人們開始到球場去看沛蒂·金塔（Preity Zinta，著名寶萊塢女演員）去球場看夏路克·汗（Shahrukh Khan，著名寶萊塢男演員）然後，有趣的事發生了我們開始把音樂和舞蹈帶進印度板球它跟寶萊塢電影越來越像當然，如果你是在沛蒂·金塔的隊上你可以看到，如果你表現的好的話沛蒂會給你一個愛的抱抱正是你把球打好的終極目的。請看大家都目不轉睛的盯著沛蒂 （音樂） 當然，也有夏路克和他的球隊－加爾各達隊我們都看過加爾各達隊的比賽但是從沒看過這個夏路克和孟加拉歌曲，鼓舞整場觀眾為加爾各達隊加油，而不是為印度隊唷再看看這個 （音樂） 印度影星和巴基斯坦球員互相擁抱正因為他們剛在加爾各達贏了球你能想像嗎？你知道那位巴基斯坦球員說了什麼嗎？（掌聲）「我真希望我是在沛蒂·金塔的隊上...」 （笑聲） 我想藉這個機會在座有些巴基斯坦來的朋友我真的很開心你們在這兒因為這能證明說我們是可以和平相處、當朋友的我們可以一起打板球、當好朋友所以，很感謝在座每一位從巴基斯坦來的朋友 （掌聲） 不過，也有這樣的評論：「球員可以被拿來做買賣？難道他們是榖物嗎？是牛嗎？」因為我們有這樣的拍賣會你要怎們幫一位球員定價呢？於是就有這樣的拍賣會千真萬確的這樣說成交！多少多少百萬美金、標得哪位哪位球員就像這樣 （音樂） 拍賣官：「金奈隊（Chennai）出價150萬美金...夏恩·沃恩（Shane Warne）45萬美金成交」 過去，一場比賽一天可以幫球員賺進50盧比一場五天的對抗賽的話，就是250盧比但如果四天就打完了，你只能拿200每場對抗賽都出賽的最佳印度球員、來自各國的、最頂尖的選手當時標準的合約是每年22萬美金但現在，他們光打六天就賺進50萬安德魯·福林托夫（Andrew Flintoff）從英格蘭飛來賺了150萬美金，然後他回去說：「四週內，我就賺的比法蘭克·蘭帕德和史蒂芬·傑拉德還多囉（均為英超足球選手）我比足球明星賺的多㖿～哇！」安德魯是在哪裡賺的呢？是一個印度的小小球隊㖿你有辦法想像、真會有這一天的到來嗎？六天150萬美金還不錯，對吧？ 而開賽前2.3億的資金呢印度做的是把自己和全世界最頂尖的拿來做比較結果它成了非常大的品牌拉利·墨帝（Lalit Modi）上了印度今日商業雜誌封面印度板球超級聯賽成為印度最大的品牌但由於選舉的關係，我們得遷賽到南非而且是必須在三週內舉行聯賽把整個聯賽在三週內搬到南非去㖿但我們做到了。你知道為什麼嗎？因為沒有國家跟我們的工作效率一樣低但比賽前的那三週那三週，沒有人比我們做得快 （掌聲） 印度人口，一直以來被視為一大問題但，突然間，變成我們最大的資產因為有更多的人在看球就有廣大的消費階層每個人都來看板球比賽我們把板球變成印度唯一的運動這很可惜，因為其他的運動都把板球的推向成功之路但反而有點像個悲劇結果 現在，在結束前的一點時間想告訴大家整個事件造成的副作用：長久以來，印度一直是個貧窮的國家塵土飛揚、乞丐滿街、弄蛇人、骯髒景象到處是還有""德里肚""（Dehli Belly，在印度產生水土不服），旅客來之前都一定聽說過誰來過、拉肚子的故事但這兒突然變成一個充滿機會的國度全世界的板球選手都說：「我們愛印度，我們想要到印度打球」這感覺真的很好，你知道嗎！？我們說：「有錢真的好辦事哦～」你能想像嗎？""錢""會是我們的話題之一呢～而且也不再有人感染痢疾不再髒亂、沒有乞丐、弄蛇人也都消失了全都不見蹤影！這也說明了資本主義是怎麼運作的 所以，終於，印度篡取的一個英國人發明的遊戲而T20要肩負起發揚板球的任務若想把板球比賽帶到世界各個角落那一定得是最不耗時的版本不可能把一個沒時限的對抗賽帶到中國，坐在那兒看了14天還沒結果這樣是不可能把它推向全世界的所以，這就是T20能做的希望它能讓大家過的更富裕、讓板球更盛行也希望它會帶給板球評論家更多評論的機會 謝謝大家！謝謝！ （掌聲）"
