Talk	en	zh-tw
hasan_elahi	"Hi there. I'm Hasan. I'm an artist. And usually when I tell people I'm an artist, they just look at me and say, ""Do you paint?"" or ""What kind of medium do you work in?"" Well most of my work that I work with is really a little bit about methodologies of working rather than actually a specific discipline or a specific technique. So what I'm really interested in is creative problem solving. And I had a little bit of a problem a few years ago. So let me show you a little of that. So it started over here. And this is the Detroit airport in June 19th of 2002. I was flying back to the U.S. from an exhibition overseas. And as I was coming back, well I was taken by the FBI, met by an FBI agent, and went into a little room and he asked me all sorts of questions — ""Where were you? What were you doing? Who were you talking with? Why were you there? Who pays for your trips?"" — all these little details. And then literally just out of nowhere, the guy asks me, ""Where were you September 12th?"" And when most of us get asked, ""Where were you September 12th?"" or any date for that fact, it's like, ""I don't exactly remember, but I can look it up for you."" So I pulled out my little PDA, and I said, ""Okay, let's look up my appointments for September 12th."" I had September 12th — from 10:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., I paid my storage bill. From 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., I met with Judith who was one of my graduate students at the time. From 12:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., I taught my intro class, 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., I taught my advanced class. ""Where were you the 11th?"" ""Where were you the 10th?"" ""Where were you the 29th? the 30th?"" ""Where were you October 5th?"" We read about six months of my calendar. And I don't think he was expecting me to have such detailed records of what I did. But good thing I did, because I don't look good in orange. (Laughter) So he asked me — (Applause) ""So this storage unit that you paid the rent on, what did you have in it?"" This was in Tampa, Florida, so I was like, ""Winter clothes that I have no use for in Florida. Furniture that I can't fit in my ratty apartment. Just assorted garage sale junk, because I'm a pack rat."" And he looks at me really confused and says, ""No explosives?"" (Laughter) I was like, ""No, no. I'm pretty certain there were no explosives. And if there were, I would have remembered that one."" And he's still a little confused, but I think that anyone who talks to me for more than a couple of minutes realizes I'm not exactly a terrorist threat. And so we're sitting there, and eventually after about an hour, hour and a half of just going back and forth, he says, ""Okay, I have enough information here. I'm going to pass this onto the Tampa office. They're the ones who initiated this. They'll follow up with you, and we'll take care of it."" I was like, ""Great."" So I got home and the phone rings, and a man introduced himself. Basically this is the FBI offices in Tampa where I spent six months of my life — back and forth, not six months continuously. By the way, you folks know that in the United States, you can't take photographs of federal buildings, but Google can do it for you. So to the folks from Google, thank you. (Applause) So I spent a lot of time in this building. Questions like: ""Have you ever witnessed or participated in any act that may be detrimental to the United States or a foreign nation?"" And you also have to consider the state of mind you're in when you're doing this. You're basically face-to-face with someone that essentially decides life or death. Or questions such as — actually, during the polygraph, which was how it finally ended after nine consecutive of them — one of the polygraph questions was ... well the first one was, ""Is your name Hasan?"" ""Yes."" ""Are we in Florida?"" ""Yes."" ""Is today Tuesday?"" ""Yes."" Because you have to base it on a yes or no. Then, of course, the next question is: ""Do you belong to any groups that wish to harm the United States?"" I work at a university. (Laughter) So I was like, ""Maybe you want to ask some of my colleagues that directly."" But they said, ""Okay, aside from what we had discussed, do you belong to any groups that wish to harm the United States?"" I was like, ""No."" So at the end of six months of this and nine consecutive polygraphs, they said, ""Hey, everything's fine."" I was like, ""I know. That's what I've been trying to tell you guys all along. I know everything's fine."" So they're looking at me really odd. And it's like, ""Guys, I travel a lot."" This is with the FBI. And I was like, ""All we need is Alaska not to get the last memo, and here we go all over again."" And there was a sincere concern there. And he was like, ""You know, if you get into trouble, give us a call — we'll take care of it."" So ever since then, before I would go anywhere, I would call the FBI. I would tell them, ""Hey guys, this is where I'm going. This is my flight. Northwest flight seven coming into Seattle on March 12th"" or whatever. A couple weeks later, I'd call again, let them know. It wasn't that I had to, but I chose to. Just wanted to say, ""Hey guys. Don't want to make it look like I'm making any sudden moves."" (Laughter) ""I don't want you guys to think that I'm about to flee. Just letting you know. Heads up."" And so I just kept doing this over and over and over. And then the phone calls turned into emails, and the emails got longer and longer and longer ... with pictures, with travel tips. Then I'd make websites. And then I built this over here. Let me go back to it over here. So I actually designed this back in 2003. So this kind of tracks me at any given moment. I wrote some code for my mobile phone. Basically, what I decided is okay guys, you want to watch me, that's cool. But I'll watch myself. It's okay. You don't have to waste your energy or your resources. And I'll help you out. So in the process, I start thinking, well what else might they know about me? Well they probably have all my flight records, so I decided to put all my flight records from birth online. So you can see, Delta 1252 going from Kansas City to Atlanta. And then you see, these are some of the meals that I've been fed on the planes. This was on Delta 719 going from JFK to San Francisco. See that? They won't let me on a plane with that, but they'll give it to me on the plane. (Laughter) These are the airports that I hang out in, because I like airports. That's Kennedy airport, May 19th, Tuesday. This is in Warsaw. Singapore. You can see, they're kind of empty. These images are shot really anonymously to the point where it could be anyone. But if you can cross-reference this with the other data, then you're basically replaying the roll of the FBI agent and putting it all together. And when you're in a situation where you have to justify every moment of your existence, you're put in the situation where you react in a very different manner. At the time that this was going on, the last thing on my mind was ""art project."" I was certainly not thinking, hey, I got new work here. But after going through this, after realizing, well what just happened? And after piecing together this, this and this, this way of actually trying to figure out what happened for myself eventually evolved into this, and it actually became this project. So these are the stores that I shop in — some of them — because they need to know. This is me buying some duck flavored paste at the Ranch 99 in Daly City on Sunday, November 15th. At Coreana Supermarket buying my kimchi because I like kimchi. And I bought some crabs too right around there, and some chitlins at the Safeway in Emoryville. And laundry too. Laundry detergent at West Oakland — East Oakland, sorry. And then my pickled jellyfish at the Hong Kong Supermarket on Route 18 in East Brunswick. Now if you go to my bank records, it'll actually show something from there, so you know that, on May 9th, that I bought $14.79 in fuel from Safeway Vallejo. So not only that I'm giving this information here and there, but now there's a third party, an independent third party, my bank, that's verifying that, yes indeed, I was there at this time. So there's points, and these points are actually being cross-referenced. And there's a verification taking place. Sometimes they're really small purchases. So 34 cents foreign transaction fee. All of these are extracted directly from my bank accounts, and everything pops up right away. Sometimes there's a lot of information. This is exactly where my old apartment in San Francisco was. And then sometimes you get this. Sometimes you just get this, just an empty hallway in Salt Lake City, January 22nd. And I can tell you exactly who I was with, where I was, because this is what I had to do with the FBI. I had to tell them every little detail of everything. I spend a lot of time on the road. This is a parking lot in Elko, Nevada off of Route 80 at 8:01 p.m. on August 19th. I spend a lot of time in gas stations too — empty train stations. So there's multiple databases. And there's thousands and thousands and thousands of images. There's actually 46,000 images right now on my site, and the FBI has seen all of them — at least I trust they've seen all of them. And then sometimes you don't get much information at all, you just get this empty bed. And sometimes you get a lot of text information and no visual information. So you get something like this. This, by the way, is the location of my favorite sandwich shop in California — Vietnamese sandwich. So there's different categorizations of meals eaten outside empty train stations, empty gas stations. These are some of the meals that I've been cooking at home. So how do you know these are meals eaten at home? Well the same plate shows up a whole bunch of times. So again, you have to do some detective work here. So sometimes the databases get so specific. These are all tacos eaten in Mexico City near a train station on July fifth to July sixth. At 11:39 a.m. was this one. At 1:56 p.m. was this one. At 4:59 p.m. was this one. So I time-stamp my life every few moments. Every few moments I shoot the image. Now it's all done on my iPhone, and it all goes straight up to my server, and my server does all the backend work and categorizes things and puts everything together. They need to know where I'm doing my business, because they want to know about my business. So on December 4th, I went here. And on Sunday, June 14th at 2009 — this was actually about two o'clock in the afternoon in Skowhegan, Maine — this was my apartment there. So what you're basically seeing here is all bits and pieces and all this information. If you go to my site, there's tons of things. And really, it's not the most user-friendly interface. It's actually quite user-unfriendly. And one of the reasons, also being part of the user-unfriendliness, is that everything is there, but you have to really work through it. So by me putting all this information out there, what I'm basically telling you is I'm telling you everything. But in this barrage of noise that I'm putting out, I actually live an incredibly anonymous and private life. And you know very little about me actually. And really so I've come to the conclusion that the way you protect your privacy, particularly in an era where everything is cataloged and everything is archived and everything is recorded, there's no need to delete information anymore. So what do you do when everything is out there? Well you have to take control over it. And if I give you this information directly, it's a very different type of identity than if you were to try to go through and try to get bits and pieces. The other thing that's also interesting that's going on here is the fact that intelligence agencies — and it doesn't matter who they are — they all operate in an industry where their commodity is information, or restricted access to information. And the reason their information has any value is, well, because no one else has access to it. And by me cutting out the middle man and giving it straight to you, the information that the FBI has has no value, so thus devaluing their currency. And I understand that, on an individual level, it's purely symbolic. But if 300 million people in the U.S. started doing this, we would have to redesign the entire intelligence system from the ground up. Because it just wouldn't work if everybody was sharing everything. And we're getting to that. When I first started this project, people were looking at me and saying, ""Why would you want to tell everybody what you're doing, where you're at? Why are you posting these photos?"" This was an age before people were Tweeting everywhere and 750 million people were posting status messages or poking people. So in a way, I'm glad that I'm completely obsolete. I'm still doing this project, but it is obsolete, because you're all doing it. This is something that we all are doing on a daily basis, whether we're aware of it or not. So we're creating our own archives and so on. And you know, some of my friends have always said, ""Hey, you're just paranoid. Why are you doing this? Because no one's really watching. No one's really going to bother you."" So one of the things that I do is I actually look through my server logs very carefully. Because it's about surveillance. I'm watching who's watching me. And I came up with these. So these are some of my sample logs. And just little bits and pieces, and you can see some of the things there. And I cleaned up the list a little bit so you can see. So you can see that the Homeland Security likes to come by — Department of Homeland Security. You can see the National Security Agency likes to come by. I actually moved very close to them. I live right down the street from them now. Central Intelligence Agency. Executive Office of the President. Not really sure why they show up, but they do. I think they kind of like to look at art. And I'm glad that we have patrons of the arts in these fields. So thank you very much. I appreciate it. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Hasan, just curious. You said, ""Now everything automatically goes from my iPhone,"" but actually you do take the pictures and put on information. So how many hours of the day does that take? HE: Almost none. It's no different than sending a text. It's no different than checking an email. It's one of those things, we got by just fine before we had to do any of those. So it's just become another day. I mean, when we update a status message, we don't really think about how long that's going to take. So it's really just a matter of my phone clicking a couple of clicks, send, and then it's done. And everything's automated at the other end. BG: On the day you are in a place where there is no coverage, the FBI gets crazy? HE: Well it goes to the last point that I was at. So it holds onto the very last point. So if I'm on a 12-hour flight, you'll see the last airport that I departed from. BG: Hasan, thank you very much. (HE: Thank you.) (Applause)"	你好。我叫Hasan。我是一個藝術家。通常當我告訴人我是一個藝術家，他們只是看著我問，「 你畫油畫？」或「你用什麼工具創作？」我的工作，實際上是一個有關工作的方法而不是一個特定的媒質或特定的技術。我真正感興趣的是創造性地解決問題。幾年前，我有一點問題。因此，讓我告訴你一點點。 故事在這裡開始。這裡是在2002年6月19日底特律機場。我從海外展覽飛回美國。在我回來時，聯邦調查局扣留着我, 聯邦調查局特工帶我走進一個小房間,他問了我各種各樣的問題 —「 你去了哪裡？你在幹什麼？你跟誰說話？為什麼你你去了那裡? 誰幫你出錢？ 」—所有這些小細節。然後不知道從哪裡,這個傢伙問我，「你9月12日在哪裡？」當我們最經常被問，「你9月12日在哪裡？」或事實任何一日期，經常這就像，「 我不完全記得，但我可以給你查查看。」 於是我掏出我的掌上型電腦，我說：「好吧，讓我們來看看我在9月12日約會。 」9月12日 — 上午10時至10時半，我付清了我的儲藏室帳單。從上午10時半至中午，我會見了在當時是我的一個研究生Judith。從中午至下午3時，我教授我的介紹課，下午3時0至6時，我教授我的高級班。「你在11日在哪裡？」「你在10日在哪裡？」「你29日在哪裡？30日呢？」「 你在10月5日在哪裡？」我們翻查了我6個月的日曆。我想他不曾預料我會有這樣詳細的記錄。但幸虧我有，因為我變成橙色不好看。 (笑聲) 於是，他問我 —(掌聲）「你這個要支付的租金存儲單位，裡面存儲什麼？ 」這是在美國佛羅里達州坦帕市，我說，「我在佛羅里達州沒有用的冬天衣服。在我破爛的公寓沒有足夠空間放置的家具。車庫出售的垃圾，因為我是一個囤積狂。」他看着我真的很困惑，說：「 沒有炸藥？」（笑聲）我說，「 不，不。我敢肯定沒有炸藥，而如果有，我會記得的。」他還是有點困惑，但我覺得任何人跟我談超過幾分鐘，會意識到我完全不是一個恐怖威脅。我們坐在那裡，最終經過約一個小時，一個半小時來來回回，他說，「好吧，我有足夠的資料在這裡，我會傳遞到坦帕的辦公室。是他們發起調查的。他們將與你跟進，我們會關照他們。」我當時說，「好。」 我回到家，電話鈴聲響起，一名男子介紹自己。基本上，這是在坦帕的聯邦調查局辦事處，我在坦帕生活了6個月 —6個月內, 來來回回。順便說一下，你要知道在美國，你不可以攝影聯邦大樓的照片，但谷歌能為你做到。因此，谷歌，謝謝你。（掌聲）所以我在這棟樓花了大量的時間。問題如：「你有沒有曾經目睹或參與任何可能會損害到美國或外國民族行動？ 」而且你還必須要考慮當你這個時候的心態。你基本上是面對面，面對着基本上決定生或死的人。或問題如 — 實際上，在測謊器，這是他們連續九次後決定終於結束 — 測謊問題之一...第一個是，「Hasan是你的名字嗎？」「是的。」「我們是在佛羅里達州嗎？」「是的。」「今天是星期二嗎？」「是的。」因為你要答是或否。當然，然後接下來的問題是：「你屬於任何想損害美國的團體嗎？」我在一所大學工作。（笑聲）所以說，「也許你要直接問我的一些同事。」但是他們說：「好了，除了我們討論的事情，你屬於任何想損害美國的團體嗎？ 」我說，「不。 」 因此，在6個月和連續九個測謊儀結束時，他們說，「 嘿，一切都無恙。」我說，「 我知道，我一直都在試圖告訴你們，我知道一切都無恙。」他們很奇怪地看著我。我說，「伙計們，我經常旅行。」這是與美國聯邦調查局。我當時說，「 只要阿拉斯加沒有得到最後的備忘錄,我們又需再在這裡從新開始再走一遍。」他們實際在有真誠的顧慮。他說，「 這樣吧，如果你陷入困境，給我們一個電話 — 我們會關照你。」 因此從那時起，在我去任何地方之前，我會先致電聯邦調查局。我會告訴他們，「 嗨，我要去這裡，這是我的航班。西北航空7號3月12日往西雅圖」或如此類推。幾個星期後，我再打電話讓他們知道行程。我不是要一定這樣做，但我選擇這樣做。我想說，「 嗨, 傢伙，我只不想看起來像在做任何突然的舉動。」（笑聲）「 我不想你們以為在我逃跑，因此我必須讓你知道。」我不停地反復這樣做。然後, 電話變成電郵，而電子郵件亦變得更長，越來越長附帶圖片，旅遊提示。然後我更設網站。我在這裡建設網站。讓我們回去來看看。 我其實在2003年設計這個。所以在任何時刻都可以跟踪我。我在我的手機寫了一些代碼。基本上，我決定, 好，你要視察我，好。但我會自己視察自己。沒問題。你不必浪費人力或資源。讓我來幫你們。因此在這個過程中，我開始思考，他們還有什麼可以更了解我呢？他們應可能有我所有的飛行記錄，所以，我決定把我從出生所有的飛行記錄放在網上。所以你可以看到，在達美航空1252從堪薩斯城到亞特蘭大。然後就可以看到，這些都是一些我在飛機吃的飯菜。這是達美航空719從肯尼迪機場到舊金山三角洲。看到了嗎？他們不會讓我帶這個上機，但他們會在飛機上給我這個。（笑聲）這些是我流連的機場，因為我喜歡機場。這是肯尼迪機場，5月19日，星期二。這是在華沙。新加坡。你可以看到，它們是​​空​​空的。 這些圖像匿名的拍攝，它可能是任何人拍攝。但如果你可以交叉引用其他數據，那麼你基本上扮演邦調查局特工，將全部信息放在一起。當你在一個情況是你必須證明你存在的每一刻的時候，在你投入這情況下，你便會有非常不同的反應方式。在當時發生這回事的時候，在我腦海 根本沒想到這是一項「藝術項目」。我肯定沒有想到，哎，我得到了新的工作。但經過這個後，看清後，便會想想剛剛究竟發生了什麼？拼湊這個和那個後，這種試圖找出在自己身上發生了什麼的方式最終慢慢地演變成這個，然後實際上成為了這個項目。 這些是我其中一些買東西的店鋪 —因為他們是需要知道的。這是我在達大華超級市場買了一些鴨味調醬,在11月15日,星期日。在樟超市我買泡菜，因為我喜歡泡菜。我亦在附近買了一些螃蟹,又在moryville的Safeway買了一些豬腸。亦去了洗衣房。在奧克蘭西買洗衣粉 —對不起, 奧克蘭東。然後在不倫瑞克東18幹線的香港超市買了醃海蜇。現在如果你去看看我的銀行記錄，它實際上顯示從那裡的東西，讓你知道，在5月9日，我從瓦列霍的Safeway購買了$14.79的燃油。 所以不僅是我給這些資料，但現在還有第三者，獨立的第三者，我的銀行，驗證我在這個時候就在這裡。因此，有這些資料點，可以交叉引用。還有正在發生的核查。有時，它們真是小額的採購。所以僅僅的34美分外匯交易費。所有這些都直接從我的銀行帳戶中提取，並一切可以馬上登出。 往往有大量的信息。這是我在舊金山的老年公寓的確切位置。然後有時候你會得到這個。有時候你會有時候你會得到這個。1月22日在鹽湖城，一個空的走廊。我可以確切地告訴你我與誰在一起，我在哪裡，因為這是我必須替聯邦調查局這樣做。我要告訴他們一切小細節。我在路上花很多時間。這是一個在內華達州埃爾科的停車場80路線8月19日下午8:01。我亦在加油站花很多時間 — 空的火車站。因此，有多個數據庫。有成千上萬的圖像。實際上，現在我的網站上有46000圖像，聯邦調查局亦已經看到這些所有 —至少我相信他們已經看到了。然後有時你會不得到很多的信息，只是個空床。有時你得到了大量的文字資料但沒有視覺信息。你得到這樣的東西。順便說一下，這是我在加利福尼亞州最喜歡的三明治店的位置 —越南三明治。 還有在火車站,空的加油站,吃的不同的飯菜分類。這些都是一些我在家做的飯菜。那你怎麼知道這些都是在家吃的飯？因為連續顯示了相同的碟子。所以，你要在這裡做一些偵探工作。有時數據庫會如此具有個別性。這是七月五日至第六日在墨西哥城的火車站附近全部我所吃墨西哥卷餅。這一個是在上午11時 39分。這一個是在1時 56分。這一個是在4時 59分。我將我的生活每隔幾分鐘便時間戳記。每隔幾分鐘，我便拍攝圖像。 全部都是在我的iPhone上進行，這一切都直接地上載到我的服務器，而我的服務器進行所有的後台工作，把一切東西歸類，融合在一起。他們需要知道我往哪裡做我的事兒，因為他們想了解我的業務。因此，在12月4日，我來到這裡。在上週日，2009年6月14日 —實際上是下午約兩點鐘在緬因州Skowhegan, — 這是我的公寓。所以你基本上在這裡看到的是所有的點點滴滴，所有這些信息。 如果你去我的網站，那裡有很多東西。但其實，這不是最容易用的界面。它事實上是非常不好用的。原因之一是所有東西都在網站上，你必須深入地探討。所以我把所有這些信息放在那裡，我基本上是告訴你我的一切。因此，在我這信息的噪音攻勢，我其實是活在一有個令人難以置信的匿名和私人的生活。你實際上對我的瞭解非常少。我得出的結論是，你保護你隱私的方式，尤其是在這一切都是被編目,存檔，記錄的時代，是已經沒有需要刪除信息。 所以當一切都在那裡, 你會怎麼做？你必須要控制它。如果我直接給你這些信息，它會是一個比如果你嘗試去調查和收集星星點點的非常不同類型的身份。在這裡另外有趣的事情是，情報機構 —不管他們是誰—他們都工作在一個信息便是商品的行業，或是限制獲取信息。他們的信息有價值的原因是，因為其他人不能夠獲取它。當我淘汰中間人，並直接給予你信息，聯邦調查局的已經沒有任何價值，因此貶值其資源的價值。據我所知，就個人而言，這純粹是象徵性的。但如果在美國的300萬人都開始這樣做，我們將不得不將整個情報系統從新設計。因為, 如果每個人都分享一切, 它基本上不中用。我們會討論這一點。 當我剛開始做這件事的時候，人們看著我說：「你為什麼想告訴大家你在做什麼，你在哪裡？你為什麼要發佈這些照片？」這是在一個Twitter(推特)以前的時代,在有750萬人無處不發佈狀態,信息,或戳人的時代。因此，在某種程度上，我很高興我完全過時。我還在做這個項目，但它已經過時了，因為所有人都在做。這是我們每天正在做的基礎，無論我們是否意識到這一點與否。因此，我們正在創建我們自己的檔案。 你知道，我的一些朋友一直說，「嘿，你只是偏執，你為什麼要這樣做呢？因為根本上沒有人真正在看，沒有人真的會打擾你。」所以，實際上我做的事情之一是我非常小心跡察我服務器的日誌。因為這是關於監視。我在監視著誰在看著我。我發現了這些。這些都是我的一些日誌樣品。只是點點滴滴，你可以看到一些東西。當我清理一點點，這樣你就可以看到。國土安全部喜歡來遊覽 —是國土安全部。你可以看到，國家安全局喜歡來。其實我搬遷了到非常接近他們。距離就是街頭街尾。中央情報局。總統行政辦公室。真的不知道他們為什麼來，但他們真的來看。我覺得他們喜愛看藝術。我很高興我們在這些專業領域有藝術喜好者。 所以我非常感謝你們。我非常感激。 (掌聲) Bruno Giussani: Hasan, 只是好奇。你說，「一切都自動來自我的iPhone」，但實際上你在拍攝照片，並把信息傳上網路。你一天花多少時間做這些？ HE: 幾乎沒有多少時間。它比發送文字沒有什麼不同。它比檢查電子郵件沒有什麼不同。那些東西，在這些技術之前們已經做得到。所以現在沒有兩樣。我的意思是，當我們更新狀態消息，我們沒有真正思考多久便進行。所以它真的只是在我的手機點擊幾個點,然後發送便完成。在另一端一切皆自動化。 BG: 在你在的地方沒有消息的一天，聯邦調查局會瘋了嗎？ HE: 那麼, 它會去到我在最後的一點。因此，它會保持到最後的一點。如果我在12個小時飛行的時候，你便會看到我最後離開的機場。 BG：Hasan，非常感謝你。 （HE：謝謝你。） (掌聲)
