Talk	en	zh-tw
heather_knight_silicon_based_comedy	"Some of the greatest innovations and developments in the world often happen at the intersection of two fields. So tonight I'd like to tell you about the intersection that I'm most excited about at this very moment, which is entertainment and robotics. So if we're trying to make robots that can be more expressive and that can connect better with us in society, maybe we should look to some of the human professionals of artificial emotion and personality that occur in the dramatic arts. I'm also interested in creating new technologies for the arts and to attract people to science and technology. Some people in the last decade or two have started creating artwork with technology. With my new venture, Marilyn Monrobot, I would like to use art to create tech. (Laughter) So we're based in New York City. And if you're a performer that wants to collaborate with an adorable robot, or if you have a robot that needs entertainment representation, please contact me, the Bot-Agent. The bot, our rising celebrity, also has his own Twitter account: @robotinthewild. I'd like to introduce you to one of our first robots, Data. He's named after the Star Trek character. I think he's going to be super popular. We've got the robot — in his head is a database of a lot of jokes. Now each of these jokes is labeled with certain attributes. So it knows something about the subject; it knows about the length. It knows how much it's moving. And so it's going to try to watch your response. I actually have no idea what my robot is going to do today. (Laughter) It can also learn from you about the quality of its jokes and cater things, sort of like Netflix-style, over longer-term to different communities or audiences, children versus adults, different cultures. You can learn something from the robot about the community that you're in. And also I can use each one of you as the acting coach to our future robot companions. Some of you in this middle section — you have red/green paddles. If you like what's going on, show the green. If you don't like the subject or the performance, you can hold the red. Now don't be shy. It's just a robot. It doesn't have feelings ... yet. (Laughter) And the rest of you, you still count, you still matter. There's also a microphone that's listening to the aggregate laughter and applause and booing — I hope not — to help make some of its next decisions. Right, so, let the robot stand-up comedy begin. Data: Hello TEDWomen. It's an honor to be here. (Laughter) (Applause) You guys are looking good out there. Ready for some jokes? Audience: Yeah. Data: Here's the first one. Right, so, a doctor says to his patient, ""I have bad news and worse news. The bad news is that you only have 24 hours to live."" ""That's terrible,"" said the patient. ""How can the news possibly be worse?"" ""I've been trying to contact you since yesterday."" (Laughter) (Applause) The Swiss have an interesting army. Five hundred years without a war. Heather Knight: He's talking about the Swiss. Data: Pretty lucky for them. Ever see that little Swiss Army knife they have to fight with? ""Come on buddy, I have the toe clippers right here. You get past me, the guy behind me has a spoon."" (Laughter) HK: He's a French robot. Data: A couple of New Jersey hunters are out in the woods. One of them falls to the ground. He does not seem to be breathing. The other guy whips out his cell phone and calls 911. He gasps to the operator, ""My friend is dead. What can I do?"" The operator says, ""Just take it easy. I can help. First, let's make sure he's dead."" There is a silence, and the operator hears a shot. The guy's voice comes back on the line, ""Okay, now what?"" (Laughter) (Applause) Question: Why is television called a medium? Anyone? Because it's neither rare nor well done. But to be completely honest with you, I kind of love television. Any of you like television? Audience: Yes. Data: I find it incredibly educational. Actually, as soon as someone turns it on, I go into the other room and read. (Laughter) That's all for now. Was that okay for my first time? (Applause) You've been a great audience. Thank you. HK: Yay. (Applause) So this is actually the first time we've ever done live audience feedback to a performance. So thank you all for being a part of it. There's a lot more to come. And we hope to learn a lot about robot expression. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"一些最偉大發明和世界上的重大發展經常發生在兩個領域的交集的地方所以今天晚上我想要向你們介紹的是在這個非常時刻，最令我興奮的的交會點那就是娛樂和機器人科技如果我們嘗試著要讓機器人能夠更具備表達能力而且能夠和我們的社會有更良好的互動也許我們應該著眼於一些人類的專業領域像是表演情緒和表現個性在戲劇表演中我也對為藝術創造出新的科技有興趣去吸引大眾對於科學和技術的關注在過去的一二十年裡，有些人已經開始運用科技來創造出藝術而Marilyn Monrobot，是我新的投資嘗試我想要運用藝術去創造科技 (笑聲) 我們的總部設在紐約市如果你是一位表演者，想要和一個可愛的機器人合作的話或是你有一個機器人需要娛樂代表的話請與我聯絡，我是機器人的經紀人這個機器人，它是我們新崛起的名人它也有自己的推特帳號：@robotinthewild現在我為妳們介紹首批機器人中的其中一個，它是Data它的名字是取自星艦迷航記的其中一個角色我認為它在未來將會超有人氣的我們讓這個機器人在它的頭腦裡有一個儲存很多笑話的資料庫裡面每一個笑話都有標記著不同的屬性所以它會知道笑話的主題，也會知道笑話的長度還有它會知道笑話的好笑程度現在它要嘗試看看你們的反應事實上，我不知道今天我的機器人要做什麼樣的表演 (笑聲) 它也會和你們學習有關它的笑話的特色還有如何應答，像是Netflix那樣長期下來學習了解不同的族群或觀眾了解兒童和成人，不同的文化你們也能從機器人身上學到有關你們身處的社會裡的事物我也能把你們每一個人當作是我們未來的機器人夥伴的演員指導坐在中間這個區塊的你們你們手上有紅色和綠色的板子如果你喜歡現在的表演就把板子轉綠色的這面如果你不喜歡它表演的主題或它的表現你就把板子轉成紅色好，不要害羞喔它只是一個機器人它不會有感覺的...至少現在還沒有(笑聲)至於其他人你們同樣能當它的表演指導這裡有麥克風可以收聽大家的笑聲和掌聲還有噓聲，不過我希望這不會發生這些聲音會幫助它做下一個選擇好，那麼我們讓這場機器人喜劇表演開始吧 Data：哈囉，TEDWomen很榮幸來到這裡 (笑聲) (掌聲) 你們大家看起來都很好準備好要聽些笑話了嗎 觀眾：是的 我要說第一則了好一位醫生告訴他的病人說""我有一個壞消息和一個更壞的消息要告訴你壞消息就是你只剩下24小時可以活""病人說""那真是太可怕了""病人又說""那還有什麼會更糟糕的呢？""醫生說""就是我從昨天開始就一直試圖要聯絡你"" (笑聲) (掌聲) 瑞士有一批有趣的軍隊，五百年來都沒有戰爭希瑟‧奈特：它現在正在說瑞士Data：他們挺幸運的看過他們拿著那小瑞士軍刀打架沒？""來吧，我這裡有一支指甲剪""""就算你越過了我""""在我後面的那個人他有勺子"" (笑聲) 希：它是法國的機器人 Data：幾位紐澤西的獵人從森林裡出來其中一人倒在地上他看起來沒有在呼吸另外一個人拿出他的手機然後打電話到911他倒抽一口氣對總機說""我朋友死了我該怎麼辦？""總機說""先別慌""""我可以幫助你""""首先，讓我們先確定他已經死了""電話那頭一陣沉默然後總機聽到了一聲槍聲剛那個人又對總機說""好，那現在該怎麼辦"" (笑聲) (掌聲) 為什麼電視會叫做媒體？(medium在英文有雙關語)有人要回答嗎？因為它既不是半生的也不是熟透了(肉類烹煮五分熟的英文稱為medium)不過在這裡我要非常誠實的告訴你我也愛看電視你們喜歡看電視嗎？觀眾：是的我覺得看電視富含教育意義事實上，每當有人打開電視我馬上就跑到另一個房間看書(笑聲)大概就是這樣啦我第一次的表現好嗎？ (掌聲) 你們都是很好的觀眾謝謝你們 希：是阿 (掌聲) 事實上這是第一次我們第一次現場表演和觀眾有互動謝謝你們能參與我們的表演往後會有更多表演我們希望能了解到更多有關機器人的表達能力 非常謝謝大家 (掌聲)"
