Talk	en	zh-tw
hector_ruiz_on_connecting_the_world	"You know, one of the things that I'd like to say upfront is that I'm really here by accident. And what I mean — not at TED — that I'm — at this point in my life, truly my set of circumstances I would truly consider an accident. But what I'd like to talk to you about today is perhaps a way in which we could use technology to make those accidents happen often. Because I really think, when I look back at how I actually ended up in this accident, technology played a big role in that. So, what I'd like to do today is tell you a little bit about myself, because I'd like to put in context what I'm going to tell you. And I think you will see why the two greatest passions in my life today are children and education. And once I put that in context, I'd like to tell you a little bit about technology: why I believe technology is a tremendous enabler; a very powerful tool to help address some of these challenges. Then, about the initiative that Chris mentioned, that we decided to launch at AMD that we call 50x15. And then I'll come back to the beginning, and tell you a little bit more — hopefully convince you — that I believe that in today's world, it is really important for business leaders not only to have an idea of what their business is all about, but to have a passion for something that is meaningful. So, with that in mind, first of all let me tell you, I'm one of five children. I'm the oldest, the other four are women. So I grew up in a family of women. I learned a lot about how to deal with that part of the world. (Laughter) And, as you can imagine, if you can picture this: I was born in a very small village in Mexico, in, unfortunately, very poor surroundings, and my parents did not have a college education. But I was fortunate to be able to have one, and so were my four sisters. That kind of tells you a little bit of an idea of the emphasis that my parents placed on education. My parents were fanatics about learning, and I'll come back to that a little bit later. But one of the things that exposed me early to learning, and a tremendous curiosity that was instilled in me as a child, was through a technology which is on the screen — is a Victrola. My father found that in a junkyard, and was able to repair it and make it work. And somehow — to this day, I frankly don't know how he was so aware of what was going on in the world — but, by inviting me to sit down with him when I was only a few years old, and playing records in this Victrola by Mozart, and he would tell me how Mozart was the most romantic of all the classic composers ever, and how Claire de Lune, which was one of his favorites, was a real exposure to me to classical music. He explained to me about Johann Strauss, and how he created the waltzes that became so famous in the world. And would tell me a little bit about history too, when he'd play the 1812 Overture by Tchaikovsky on this little Victrola, and he would tell me about Russia and all the things that were happening in Russia at those times and why this music, in some way, represented a little bit of that history. And even as a child, he was able to instill in me a lot of curiosity. And perhaps to you this product may not look like high tech, but if you can imagine the time when this occurred — it was in the mid '40s — this was really, in his view, a pretty piece of high tech. Well, one of the things that is really critical to try to distill from that experience is that in addition to that, people ask me and say, ""Well, how did your parents treat you when you were a child?"" And I always said that they were really tough on me. And not tough in the sense that most people think of, where your parents yell at you or hit you or whatever. They were tough in the sense that, as I grew up, both my mother and father would always say to me, it's really important that you always remember two things. First of all, when you go to bed at night, you've got to look back on the day and make sure that you felt the day was a day which you contributed something, and that you did everything you could to do it the best way you could. And the second thing they said: and we trust you, that no matter where you are or where you go, you will always do the right thing. Now, I don't know how many of you have ever done that with your kids, but if you do, please trust me, it's the most pressure you can put on a child, to say — (Laughter) — we trust you that you will always do the right thing. When I was out with my friends drinking beer, I always was very aware of those words — (Laughter) — and very careful. One of the things that has happened with technology is that it can only be helpful if it is useful, of course, but it can only be helpful too if it's accessible, and it can only be helpful if it's affordable. And in today's world, being useful, affordable and accessible is not necessarily what happens in a lot of the technology that is done today. So, one of our passions in our company, and now one of my personal passions, is to be able to really work hard at making the technology useful, accessible and affordable. And to me, that is very, very critical. Now, technology has changed a lot since the Victrola days. You know, we now have, of course, incredibly powerful computers. A tremendous thing that people refer to as a killer app is called the Internet. Although frankly speaking, we don't believe the Internet is the killer app. What we believe is that the Internet, frankly, is a connection of people and ideas. The Internet happens to be just the medium in which those people and ideas get connected. And the power of connecting people and ideas can be pretty awesome. And so, we believe that through all the changes that have occurred, that we're faced today with a tremendous opportunity. If we can connect people and ideas more intensely — and although you've seen a plethora and a myriad of products that have come to the market today, the key to me is how many of these products are able to provide people connectivity, in a useful way, accessibility, in an easy manner, and also affordability, that regardless of the economic status that a person could have, that they could have the opportunity to afford this technology. So, when you look at that, we said, well, we would like to, then, enable that a little bit. We would like to create an initiative. And a couple of years ago at AMD, we came up with this idea of saying, what if we create this initiative we call 50x15, where we are going to aim, that by the year 2015, half of the world will be connected to the Internet so that people and ideas can get connected. We knew we couldn't do it by ourselves, and by no means did we ever intend to imply that we at AMD could do it alone. We always felt that this was something that could be done through partnerships with governments, industry, educational institutions, a myriad of other companies and, frankly, even competitors. So, it is really a rather lofty initiative, if you want to think that way, but we felt that we had to put a real stake up in the years ahead, that was bold enough and courageous enough that it would force us all to think of ways to do things differently. And I'll come back to that in a minute, because I think the results so far have been remarkable, and I can only anticipate and get real excited about what I think is going to happen in the next eight years, while we get to the 2015 initiative. Where are we today? That's year by year. This comes from our friends at Gapminder.com. Those of you who've never looked at their website, you should look at it. It's really impressive. And you can see how the Internet penetration has changed over the years. And so when we gave ourselves this scorecard to say well, where are we related to our goal towards 2015, the thing that becomes apparent is three pieces. One is the Western world, defined mostly by Western Europe and the United States, has made an awful lot of progress. The connectivity in these parts of the world are really truly phenomenal and continue to increase. As a matter of fact, we think reaching 100 percent is very doable, even before the 2015 timeframe. In other parts of emerging countries, such as India and China, the progress has been good — has been solid, has been good. But in places that are not as developed, places like Africa, Latin America and other places in the world, the progress has been rather slow. As a matter of fact, I was just recently visiting South Africa. I had the opportunity to have a discussion with President Mbeki, and one of the things that we talked about is, what is it that's keeping this connectivity goal from moving ahead faster? And one of the reasons is, in South Africa, it costs 100 dollars a month to have a broadband connectivity. It is impossible, even in the United States, for that cost, to be able to enable the connectivity that we're all trying to reach. So, we talked about ways in which perhaps one could partner to be able to bring the cost of this technology down. So, when you look at this chart, you look at the very last — it's a logarithmic chart on a horizontal scale — you look at the very end: we've got quite a long way to go to get to the 2015 goal of 50 percent. But we're excited in our company; we're motivated. We really think it's a phenomenal driver of things, to force us to do things differently, and we look forward to being able to actually, working with so many partners around the world, to be able to reach that goal. Now, one of the things I'd like to explain [about] 50x15, which I think is really critical, is that it is not a charity. It is actually a business venture. Let's take a small segment of this, of this unconnected world, and call it the education market. When you look at elementary-school children, we have hundreds and hundreds of millions of children around the world that could benefit tremendously from being able to be connected to the Internet. Therefore, when we see that, we see an opportunity to have a business that addresses the need of that segment. And when we embarked in this initiative, from the very beginning we said it very clearly: this is not a charity. This is really a business venture, one that addresses a very challenging segment of the market. Because what we have learned in the last three years is that this segment of the market, whether it's education or under-developed nations, either way, it's a segment that demands incredibly high quality, incredibly high reliability, tremendous low cost and access, and a lot of challenges that frankly, without actually doing it, it would be very difficult to understand, and I'll explain that in just a minute. It is an initiative that is focused on simple, accessible and human-centric solutions. What we mean by that is, you know, frankly, the PC was invented in 1980, roughly speaking more or less, and for 20-odd years, it hasn't changed. It is still, in most places, a gray or black box, and it looks the same. And frankly — and I know that sometimes I offend some of my customers when I say this, but I truly mean it — if you could take the name of the computer off the top of it, it would be very difficult to judge who made it, because they're all highly commoditized but they're all different. So, there has not been a human-centric approach to addressing this segment of the market, so we really believe it is critical to think of it. It reminded me a lot of the talk we heard this morning, about this operating room machinery that was designed specifically for Africa. We're talking about something very similar here. And it has to be based on a geo-sensitive approach. What I mean by that is that in some parts of the world, the government plays a key role in the development of technology. In other parts, it doesn't. In other parts of the world, you have an infrastructure that allows for manufacturing to take place. In other parts, it doesn't. And then we have to be sensitive about how this technology can be developed and put into action in those regions. And the last piece, which is really important — and this is an opinion that we have, not shared by many, this is one where we seem to stand alone, on this one — is that we really believe that the greatest success of this initiative can come by fostering local, integrated, end-to-end ecosystems. What I mean by that, and let me use this example, the country of South Africa, because I was just there, therefore I'm a little bit familiar with some of the challenges they have. It's a country of 45 million people. It's an economy that's emerging. It's beginning to grow tremendously. They have an objective to lowering the cost of connectivity. They have a computer company that makes computers in South Africa. They're developing a software-training environment in their universities. What a place, what an ideal place to create an ecosystem that could build the hardware and the software needed for their schools. And to my surprise, I learned in South Africa they have 18 dialects, I always thought they only had two — English and Afrikaans — but it turns out they have 18 dialects. And to be able to meet the needs of this rather complex educational system, it could only be done from inside. I don't think this segment of the market can be addressed by companies parachuting from another place of the world, and just dumping product and selling into the markets. So, we believe that in those regions of the world where the population is large, and there's an infrastructure that can provide it, that a local, integrated, end-to-end system is really critical for its success. This is a picture of a classroom that we outfitted with computers in Mexico, in my home country. This particular classroom happens to be in the state of Michoacan. Those of you that might be familiar with Mexico — Michoacan is a very colorful state. Children dress with very colorful, colorful clothes, and it is incredible to see the power that this has in the hands of kids, in a computer. And I have to tell you that it's so easy to appreciate the impact that access to technology and connectivity can have in the lives and education of these kids. We just recently opened a learning laboratory in a school in the West Cape in South Africa, in a school that's called Nelson Mandela School, and when you see the faces and activities of these children being able to access computers, it's just phenomenal. And recently, they've written us letters, telling us how excited they are about the impact that this has had on their lives, on their educational dreams, on their capabilities, and it's just phenomenal. We have now deployed 30 different technologists in 18 different countries, and we have been able to connect millions of people in an effort to continue to learn what this particular segment of the market needs and demands. And I have to tell you that although millions doesn't sound like a lot in terms of the billions that need to be connected, it's a start. And we are learning a lot. And we're learning a tremendous amount about what we believe this segment needs to be able to be effective. One example of this has been the One Laptop per Child. Some of you are familiar with this. This is a partnership between MIT and a group of companies — Google is involved, Red Hat — and AMD is a key player. The electronics behind the One Laptop per Child are based on AMD technology; it's a microprocessor. But to give you an idea how creative this group of people can be, one of the objectives of the One Laptop per Child is to be able to achieve a 10-hour battery life. Because it was felt that a school day would last at least eight hours, and you wanted the child to have the ability to use the laptop for at least one full day without having to recharge it. The engineers have done a phenomenal amount of innovation on this part, and battery life on this product is now 15 hours — just through a lot of innovative work people have done because they're passionate and motivated to be able to do this. We expect this to be deployed towards the end of this year, and we're very excited at the opportunities that this is going to offer in the field of education. It's a highly focused product aimed at strictly the education market, not only in the developing countries, but actually in the developed regions as well, because there are parts of the United States where this can have also a huge impact on the ability to make education more fun and more efficient. We also have partnered with TED in this project, with Architecture for Humanity, and along with the TED Prize winner Cameron Sinclair, we're having a contest that we have issued to the architectural community to come up with the best design for a computer lab for an emerging region. And we're really thrilled about the opportunity to be part of this, and can't wait to see what comes out of this exciting, exciting activity. Let me come back to the beginning, to end this presentation. I'll tell you that one of the things that I feel is really critical for us in industry, in business, is to be able to be passionate about solving these problems. I don't think it's enough to be able to put them on a spreadsheet, and look at numbers and say, yes, that's a good business. I really believe that you have to have a passion for it. And one of the things that I learned, too, from my parents — and I'll give you a little anecdote — especially from my father. And it took me a while to understand it, but he said to me, when I went to college, he said, ""You're the first person in the family to go to college. And it's really important you understand that for civilization to make progress, each generation has to do better than the last one. And therefore, this is your opportunity to do better than my generation."" Frankly, I don't know that I really understood what he told me at the time. I was eager to go off to college, and go find girls, and study, and girls, and study, but then I finished college and I fell in love. I graduated. I decided to get married. And on my wedding day, my father came to me again and said, ""You know, I'm going to remind you again, that each generation has to do better than the last one. You have to be a better husband than I was, because that's how you make progress."" And now he began to make sense. Because I knew what a great husband he was, and now he was once again beginning to put pressure on me, like he did when I was a little kid. And then a few years later, I had a child, my first child, and again, my father comes to the hospital, and we're looking at the glass, and see all the children on the other side, and he said, ""I've got to remind you again, that for each generation to do better, you're going to have to be a better father than I was."" That's when it dawned on me the tremendous challenge that he was placing on me, because he was a great father. But the key is that he instilled in me a passion to really get up every day in the morning and want to do better, to really get up and think that my role in life is not just to be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company. It's got to be that someday I can look back, and this place is truly better through some small contribution that perhaps each of us could make. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	首先，我想要向大家說的是我來這裡完全是偶然我不是指來TED，我是指在我人生的這個時點，我所經歷的真可以當作是個偶然但我今天要向大家說的是我們可以利用科技使這些偶然經常發生因爲我真的認爲，當我回顧我怎麽會來到這一步時在這偶然裏，科技扮演了很重要的角色 所以我今天想做的就是和各位聊一下關於我的事因爲我想要大家先了解我等一下要說的背景你們也就會了解爲什麽我今天生命中最熱衷的兩件事就是兒童和教育我説明背景后想告訴你們關於科技的一些小事爲什麽我相信科技是一個巨大的推動力是一個對應這些挑戰的強而有力的工具，其次是關於克裏斯所提的倡議就是我們AMD打算推出的50到15然後我再回歸前面說的再多告訴你們一點，希望能說服你們就是我相信在當下對商譠領袖非常重要的不只是要了解自己的生意更要有做些有意義的事的熱情 記得這個后，先讓我告訴你們我父母共有五個子女，我是長子，其他四人是女生所以我在女人堆中長大我學到許多如何處理那個世界的方法笑如果你可以想象一個這樣的情景我是在墨西哥的一個小鎮出生不幸地，環境非常貧苦我父母親沒有念大學但我運氣好，可以念大學，我四個妹妹也可以這也可以讓你們了解我的父母是多麽的重視教育我父母非常熱衷學習關於這，我以後再來説 但最早讓接觸學習的也在我幼小的心靈種下強大好奇心的是透過銀幕上的這個科技，一個留聲機-維克多拉我父親在廢物堆中找到的他把它修好能用了其實直到今天，我還是不懂他那時怎麽對世界上的事這麽了解可是我六嵗時，他要我和他一起坐下用這維克多拉留聲機播放莫札特的唱片，並告訴我莫札特是所有古典音樂作曲家裏，最羅曼蒂克的以及月光奏鳴曲是他最喜歡的曲子之一讓我真的接觸古典音樂他向我解釋史特勞斯以及他如何創作出世界聞名的華爾茲也告訴我一點歷史當他用維克多拉留聲機播放柴可夫斯基的1812序曲時，他會告訴我有關俄國和正在俄國發生的事情和爲什麽這樂曲在某些方面，代表那時的歷史即使我還是個小孩，他也灌輸了我的許多好奇心。對各位來説，這產品也許不算是高科技但如果你能想象這是發生在40年代—從他看來，這真算一個高科技產品 還有，從這經驗中記取的另外一件重要事，就是別人問我說你小時父母對你怎樣？我總是回答說他們對我非常嚴厲並且不是大家所想象的嚴厲像父母罵你或打你之類而是我長大時我父親和母親都會對我說你一定要記得兩件事情第一件就是當你晚上要上牀時一定要回想那天，確定你覺得那一天有付出些貢獻你有盡全力做到最好第二件事他們說的是：我們相信你不論你在哪裏，或要去哪裏你一定會做正確的事我不知道你們有哪些人有對孩子們說這些但如果你有，請相信我，這是你可以給孩子的最大的壓力笑我們相信你一定會做正確的事當我和朋友出去和啤酒我縂是想到這幾個字笑 而且非常小心。科技引發的事之一不必提，就是如果有用處，才會有用。但是也只有能接觸到，才有用。也只有買得起，才有用然而在今天的世界，有用，買得起，買得到，並不見得會發生在今天的科技裏所以我們公司熱衷的事之一也是我個人熱衷的，就是能夠努力工作使科技能夠有用，買得到，和買得起對我來説，這是非常要緊的 如今科技已從留聲機時代改變了許多大家都知道，我們現在有功能非常強的電腦人們稱爲致命應用的一個龐然大物，就是網路雖然老實說，我們不相信網絡是致命應用我們相信網路其實是人和想法的連接網路正好是個媒體人們和想法在那裏相連連接人和想法的能力是很厲害的所以我們相信透過所有發生的改變我們今日正面臨一個大好機會如果我們能更密切的連接人和想法雖然你們已見過今天市面上，各式各樣的產品對我來説，關鍵是這些產品當中，有哪些能夠讓人們連接得有用處很容易的取得也能買得起不論一個人的經濟狀況如何他們都有機會取得這科技 這樣當你看到這一點，我們說，好，我們想要再加強些，製造一個動力幾年前，在AMD我們提出一個想法，如果我們提出一個倡議叫做50乘15我們目標是2015年時全世界一半都可以上網人們和想法可以連接我們知道只靠自己是不可能的也絕對沒有想暗示我們AMD可以獨自完成。我們一直覺得這件事可以藉由和政府，產業界，教育機構，以及其他各式各樣的公司，甚至與競爭對手合作所以説不定你們會覺得這是一個蠻崇高的提議但我們覺得我們必須對未來下這賭注要夠大膽和勇敢才會令我們全部想出一些不同的作法我等一會兒再回來談這一點，因爲我認爲到目前爲止，成果已很驚人。我只能很興奮的期待在到2015的未來八年，我們抵達2015唱議時，會發生什麽事 我們今天在哪裏？這一年一年的比較，是從我們的朋友“提醒差距”的網站來的如果你從沒去過他們的網站你該去看看，真的很了不起。你可以看到近幾年來網路的普及情形所以我們給自己打分數時，可以說看看我們達到2015的目標路上很明顯的可以看到三件事一個是由西歐和美國所構成的西方世界有飛快的進步在這地區的聯結網真是驚人，並繼續增加 事實上我們認爲在2015年之前，都有能力達到百分之一百。在其他發展中的國家如印度和中國，進展也不錯蠻穩固，蠻不錯。但在沒那麽開發的地區裏像非洲，南美洲以及世界上其他地方進展的很慢。其實我最近才訪問過南非有機會和姆貝基總統討論過我們談論的事情之一，就是到底有那些事不讓聯網目標更快達到？其中之一的答案就是在南非一個月要一百美金才有寬頻上網這個價格，即時在美國也不可能達成我們想要的目標因此我們討論要怎樣合作才能降低這科技的價格所以當你們看到這表格，看最後一項，是平行的對數圖請看最後面我們距離在2015年達到百分之50的目標還有一段路但我們公司全員都很興奮，我們受到很大激勵我們真的認爲這是一個驚人的推手迫使我們用不同方式做事，也期待能夠和全世界這麽多的夥伴合作來達到目標 現在我來解釋一下50到15的關鍵之一我覺得非常重要的，就是它不是慈善工作其實是生意上的投資我們來看這尚未聯網的世界的一小部分把它稱作教育市場你看看小學生全世界上千萬的小孩可以從能夠聯網而受惠無窮所以當我們看到這一點，我們看到有機會創造一個針對這部分需求的商機我們提出這項提議時，從一開始就說得很清楚，這不是慈善事業。而是一個投資創業對應這市場裏很有挑戰性的部分。因爲我們過去三年裏學到的。就是在這部分的市場，不論是教育或是未開發國家，兩者都是要求難以置信的高品質，難以置信的高可靠度極度的低成本和取得，以及非常多的挑戰。實在說來，沒有真正做，很難了解我等一下會解釋這一點 這個提議的焦點在簡單，取得，和人本的解決方法。我們的意思是大家都知道，電腦大概是1980年左右發明的。這二十多年來，沒有改變在很多地方看來一樣，還是一個黑色或灰色的盒子老實說，有時當我這麽說，得罪了一些客人但我真的是這意思。如果你把電腦上面的牌子去掉很難断定是誰做的。因爲它們都高度商品化，但又都不一樣所以到目前為止，還沒有以人爲中心的做法。來處理這方面的市場所以我們任為考慮到這點非常重要 也提醒我今天早上我們聼到的這個特別為非洲做的手術室機器和我們在這裡說的一樣必須以關注地理位置為基礎我的意思是世界上有些地方的政府對科技發展有扮演很關鍵的腳色。有些地方則沒有世界上有些地方有基礎設施可以發展生産有些地方則沒有，我們必須敏感些注意要怎樣開發這些技術能在這些地區實用最後非常重要的一點是還沒有獲得許多人支持的意見好像只有是我們自己在主張的就是我們真的相信這提案要能成功必須將從頭到尾的生態環境融入當地。 我的意思是，舉個例南非這國家，因爲我曾到過。所以我稍微了解他們所面臨的一些挑戰這國家有四千五百萬人，是新興經濟開始急速發展他們有一降低聯網的成本的目標他們有一家電腦公司在南非生産電腦他們在大學推廣展軟件訓練的環境真是好地方，好理想的地方能創造這生態環境來製造硬件和軟件給需要的學校。我很驚訝的在南非發現他們有十八种方言，我一直以爲只有倆种英語和非洲語，原來他們有18种要能滿足這種蠻複雜的教育系統只有内部的人才能做到我不認爲這樣的市場是外地空降來的公司可以搞定的只是丟下產品就可以賣到市場裏所以我們相信在世界上這樣的地區有衆多人口有能應對的基礎設施能從頭到尾的融入當地系統是真正能成功的關鍵 這裡是一張我們幫忙裝了電腦的教室圖片在墨西哥，我的故鄉這張照片剛好是在米成坎這一州裏如果各位有對墨西哥熟係的，米成坎是很色彩繽紛的一州小孩都穿五顔六色的衣服看到這電腦在小孩手中的影響真是難以置信我必須告訴大家我們非常容易就可看到能獲得科技和聯網，帶蓋這些孩子生活與教育的影響我們最近在南非的西角的一間學校開了一個學習實驗室叫做納爾遜·曼德拉的學校當你看到這些小孩能夠接觸到電腦時的面孔和活動，真是無比感動最近他們寫了信給我們告訴我們，他們對這衝擊是多麽的興奮，多麽影響他們的生活，求學夢想他們的可能性，真是太壯觀了 我們現在在18個國家裏，推出了30幾種不同的科技，我們也能夠讓幾百萬的人聯網，試著去學習這個特殊市場的需求我必須告訴各位雖然幾百萬不算很多因爲有上億的人等著上網但這是開始，我們學到了許多我們學到了許多我們相信這一地區需要有效果 擧一個例子，就是每個孩子一個手提電腦你們有些人熟係這個議題這是麻省理工學院和一些公司包括谷歌，紅帽，AMD是主要參與者一孩一電腦的電子產品是以AMD的微處理器做基礎的讓你看看這些人多么有創意一孩一電腦的目標之一，就是能達到電池有十小時的壽命因爲一個學童至少要用到八個小時你希望小孩能夠至少用一整天而不必充電工程師在這方面做出了驚人的革新現在這產品上的電池壽命有十五個小時透過許多人的創新工作因爲他們對能做這事都很受激發和熱情。我們期待年底會推出我們也對這能給教育界貢獻的機會感到興奮這是只針對教育市場，非常專一的產品，不只在開發中國家，而實際上在已開發國家也一樣，因爲美國有些地區也會受到能使教育更有趣更有效的衝擊 我們在這项目裡，也與TED合作和人性工程協會以及和TED獎得主卡邁隆，新客雷我們正有一項和建築界提出的競賽看誰能為新開發地區的電腦做出最好的設計我們對能有機會參與非常興奮恨不得馬上看到這精彩，精彩的活動會有怎樣的結果 讓我回到前面來結束我這段介紹我告訴大家這些事裏我覺得對我們產業，商業很重要的就是要有解決這些問題的熱心我不認爲把他們放在報表裏就夠了看一下數字，說，生意不錯我真的相信如果你有熱心 我從合夥人學來的一件事先告訴你們一個從我父親聼來的轶事，我隔了許久才了解我去上大學時，他對我說你是我們家裏第一個去念大學的你一定要了解要使文明進步每一世代都必須比前一代做的更好因此，這是你做得比我這一代更好的幾會老實說，他跟我說時，我不知道自己是不是真懂他說的我急著去念大學，去找女孩子和念書然後我念完大學我畢業了，我決定要結婚在我婚禮上，我父親來看我，說，你知道我要再次提醒你，每一世代都必須比前一代做的更好你要做個比我更好的丈夫因爲這樣你才會進步。他說的話開始對我有意義因爲我知道他是多麽偉大的丈夫他又開始對我施壓力就像我小時候一樣，幾年后我有了小孩我的第一個小孩，我父親來到醫院，我們看著玻璃看著另外一邊的小孩，他說我要提醒你，要每一個世代更好你一定要做個比我還好的父親那時我才驚覺他給我的這個巨大挑戰，因爲他是一個偉大的父親但重點是他給我灌输了熱情讓我每天早上起來，要做的更好讓我真的起來，想到我在生命裏的腳色不是做一個財星五百大的公司總裁而是有那麽一天，我可以回顧經由我們每一位的小小的貢獻，這地方真是更好了謝謝各位拍手
