Talk	en	zh-tw
helen_fisher_studies_the_brain_in_love	"I and my colleagues Art Aron and Lucy Brown and others, have put 37 people who are madly in love into a functional MRI brain scanner. 17 who were happily in love, 15 who had just been dumped, and we're just starting our third experiment: studying people who report that they're still in love after 10 to 25 years of marriage. So, this is the short story of that research. In the jungles of Guatemala, in Tikal, stands a temple. It was built by the grandest Sun King, of the grandest city-state, of the grandest civilization of the Americas, the Mayas. His name was Jasaw Chan K'awiil. He stood over six feet tall. He lived into his 80s, and he was buried beneath this monument in 720 AD. And Mayan inscriptions proclaim that he was deeply in love with his wife. So, he built a temple in her honor, facing his. And every spring and autumn, exactly at the equinox, the sun rises behind his temple, and perfectly bathes her temple with his shadow. And as the sun sets behind her temple in the afternoon, it perfectly bathes his temple with her shadow. After 1,300 years, these two lovers still touch and kiss from their tomb. Around the world, people love. They sing for love, they dance for love, they compose poems and stories about love. They tell myths and legends about love. They pine for love, they live for love, they kill for love, and they die for love. As Walt Whitman once said, ""O I would stake all for you."" Anthropologists have found evidence of romantic love in 170 societies. They've never found a society that did not have it. But love isn't always a happy experience. In one study of college students, they asked a lot of questions about love, but the two that stood out to me the most were: ""Have you ever been rejected by somebody who you really loved?"" And the second question was: ""Have you ever dumped somebody who really loved you?"" And almost 95 percent of both men and women said yes to both. Almost nobody gets out of love alive. So, before I start telling you about the brain, I want to read for you what I think is the most powerful love poem on Earth. There's other love poems that are, of course, just as good, but I don't think this one can be surpassed. It was told by an anonymous Kwakiutl Indian of southern Alaska to a missionary in 1896. And here it is. I've never had the opportunity to say it before. ""Fire runs through my body with the pain of loving you. Pain runs through my body with the fires of my love for you. Pain like a boil about to burst with my love for you, consumed by fire with my love for you. I remember what you said to me. I am thinking of your love for me. I am torn by your love for me. Pain and more pain — where are you going with my love? I am told you will go from here. I am told you will leave me here. My body is numb with grief. Remember what I said, my love. Goodbye, my love, goodbye."" Emily Dickinson once wrote, ""Parting is all we need to know of hell."" How many people have suffered in all the millions of years of human evolution? How many people around the world are dancing with elation at this very minute? Romantic love is one of the most powerful sensations on Earth. So, several years ago, I decided to look into the brain and study this madness. Our first study of people who were happily in love has been widely publicized, so I'm only going to say very little about it. We found activity in a tiny, little factory near the base of the brain called the ventral tegmental area. We found activity in some cells called the A10 cells, cells that actually make dopamine, a natural stimulant, and spray it to many brain regions. Indeed, this part, the VTA, is part of the brain's reward system. It's way below your cognitive thinking process. It's below your emotions. It's part of what we call the reptilian core of the brain, associated with wanting, with motivation, with focus and with craving. In fact, the same brain region where we found activity becomes active also when you feel the rush of cocaine. But romantic love is much more than a cocaine high — at least you come down from cocaine. Romantic love is an obsession, it possesses you. You lose your sense of self. You can't stop thinking about another human being. Somebody is camping in your head. As an eighth-century Japanese poet said, ""My longing had no time when it ceases."" Wild is love. And the obsession can get worse when you've been rejected. So, right now, Lucy Brown and I, the neuroscientists on our project, are looking at the data of the people who were put into the machine after they had just been dumped. It was very difficult actually, putting these people in the machine, because they were in such bad shape. (Laughter) So anyway, we found activity in three brain regions. We found activity in the brain region, in exactly the same brain region associated with intense romantic love. What a bad deal. You know, when you've been dumped, the one thing you love to do is just forget about this human being, and then go on with your life — but no, you just love them harder. As the poet Terence, the Roman poet once said, he said, ""The less my hope, the hotter my love."" And indeed, we now know why. Two thousand years later, we can explain this in the brain. That brain system — the reward system for wanting, for motivation, for craving, for focus — becomes more active when you can't get what you want. In this case, life's greatest prize: an appropriate mating partner. We found activity in other brain regions also — in a brain region associated with calculating gains and losses. You're lying there, you're looking at the picture, and you're in this machine, and you're calculating what went wrong. What have I lost? As a matter of fact, Lucy and I have a little joke about this. It comes from a David Mamet play, and there's two con artists in the play, and the woman is conning the man, and the man looks at the woman and says, ""Oh, you're a bad pony, I'm not going to bet on you."" And indeed, it's this part of the brain, the core of the nucleus accumbens, that is becoming active as you're measuring your gains and losses. It's also the brain region that becomes active when you're willing to take enormous risks for huge gains and huge losses. Last but not least, we found activity in a brain region associated with deep attachment to another individual. No wonder people suffer around the world, and we have so many crimes of passion. When you've been rejected in love, not only are you engulfed with feelings of romantic love, but you're feeling deep attachment to this individual. Moreover, this brain circuit for reward is working, and you're feeling intense energy, intense focus, intense motivation and the willingness to risk it all, to win life's greatest prize. So, what have I learned from this experiment that I would like to tell the world? Foremost, I have come to think that romantic love is a drive, a basic mating drive. Not the sex drive — the sex drive gets you looking for a whole range of partners. Romantic love enables you to focus your mating energy on just one at a time, conserve your mating energy, and start the mating process with this single individual. I think of all the poetry that I've read about romantic love, what sums it up best is something that is said by Plato over 2,000 years ago. He said, ""The god of love lives in a state of need. It is a need, it is an urge, it is a homeostatic imbalance. Like hunger and thirst, it's almost impossible to stamp out."" I've also come to believe that romantic love is an addiction: a perfectly wonderful addiction when it's going well, and a perfectly horrible addiction when it's going poorly. And indeed, it has all of the characteristics of addiction. You focus on the person, you obsessively think about them, you crave them, you distort reality, your willingness to take enormous risks to win this person. And it's got the three main characteristics of addiction: tolerance, you need to see them more, and more, and more; withdrawals; and last: relapse. I've got a girlfriend who's just getting over a terrible love affair. It's been about eight months, she's beginning to feel better. And she was driving along in her car the other day, and suddenly she heard a song on the car radio that reminded her of this man. Not only did the instant craving come back, but she had to pull over from the side of the road and cry. So, one thing I would like the medical community, and the legal community, and even the college community, to see if they can understand, that indeed, romantic love is one of the most addictive substances on Earth. I would also like to tell the world that animals love. There's not an animal on this planet that will copulate with anything that comes along. Too old, too young, too scruffy, too stupid, and they won't do it. Unless you're stuck in a laboratory cage — and you know, if you spend your entire life in a little box, you're not going to be as picky about who you have sex with, but I've looked in a hundred species, and everywhere in the wild, animals have favorites. As a matter of fact, ethologists know this. There are over eight words for what they call ""animal favoritism:"" selective proceptivity, mate choice, female choice, sexual choice. And indeed, there are now three academic articles in which they've looked at this attraction, which may only last for a second, but it's a definite attraction, and either this same brain region, this reward system, or the chemicals of that reward system are involved. In fact, I think animal attraction can be instant — you can see an elephant instantly go for another elephant. And I think that this is really the origin of what you and I call ""love at first sight."" People have often asked me whether what I know about love has spoiled it for me. And I just simply say, ""Hardly."" You can know every single ingredient in a piece of chocolate cake, and then when you sit down and eat that cake, you can still feel that joy. And certainly, I make all the same mistakes that everybody else does too, but it's really deepened my understanding and compassion, really, for all human life. As a matter of fact, in New York, I often catch myself looking in baby carriages and feeling a little sorry for the tot. And in fact, sometimes I feel a little sorry for the chicken on my dinner plate, when I think of how intense this brain system is. Our newest experiment has been hatched by my colleague, Art Aron — putting people who are reporting that they are still in love, in a long-term relationship, into the functional MRI. We've put five people in so far, and indeed, we found exactly the same thing. They're not lying. The brain areas associated with intense romantic love still become active, 25 years later. There are still many questions to be answered and asked about romantic love. The question that I'm working on right this minute — and I'm only going to say it for a second, and then end — is, why do you fall in love with one person, rather than another? I never would have even thought to think of this, but Match.com, the Internet dating site, came to me three years ago and asked me that question. And I said, I don't know. I know what happens in the brain, when you do become in love, but I don't know why you fall in love with one person rather than another. And so, I've spent the last three years on this. And there are many reasons that you fall in love with one person rather than another, that psychologists can tell you. And we tend to fall in love with somebody from the same socioeconomic background, the same general level of intelligence, of good looks, the same religious values. Your childhood certainly plays a role, but nobody knows how. And that's about it, that's all they know. No, they've never found the way two personalities fit together to make a good relationship. So, it began to occur to me that maybe your biology pulls you towards some people rather than another. And I have concocted a questionnaire to see to what degree you express dopamine, serotonin, estrogen and testosterone. I think we've evolved four very broad personality types associated with the ratios of these four chemicals in the brain. And on this dating site that I have created, called Chemistry.com, I ask you first a series of questions to see to what degree you express these chemicals, and I'm watching who chooses who to love. And 3.7 million people have taken the questionnaire in America. About 600,000 people have taken it in 33 other countries. I'm putting the data together now, and at some point — there will always be magic to love, but I think I will come closer to understanding why it is you can walk into a room and everybody is from your background, your same general level of intelligence, good looks, and you don't feel pulled towards all of them. I think there's biology to that. I think we're going to end up, in the next few years, to understand all kinds of brain mechanisms that pull us to one person rather than another. So, I will close with this. These are my older people. Faulkner said, ""The past is not dead, it's not even past."" Indeed, we carry a lot of luggage from our yesteryear in the human brain. And so, there's one thing that makes me pursue my understanding of human nature, and this reminds me of it. These are two women. Women tend to get intimacy differently than men do. Women get intimacy from face-to-face talking. We swivel towards each other, we do what we call the ""anchoring gaze"" and we talk. This is intimacy to women. I think it comes from millions of years of holding that baby in front of your face, cajoling it, reprimanding it, educating it with words. Men tend to get intimacy from side-by-side doing. As soon as one guy looks up, the other guy will look away. (Laughter) I think it comes from millions of years sitting behind the bush, looking straight ahead, trying to hit that buffalo on the head with a rock. I think, for millions of years, men faced their enemies, they sat side-by-side with friends. So my final statement is: love is in us. It's deeply embedded in the brain. Our challenge is to understand each other. Thank you. (Applause)"	我和同事亞特愛倫、露西布朗和其他人將 37 名瘋狂陷入愛河的人們接受MRI 腦部掃描其中 17 名正在享受愛情， 另外 15 名則剛剛被甩而現在我們的第 3 項實驗才剛起步：研究那些依然認為自己愛火未熄的人們這些人都結婚 10 到 25 年了現在，我們就來簡單的談談這項研究 在瓜地馬拉叢林中一個叫帝卡的地方， 有一座神廟由至高無上的太陽王建造他統治最偉大的城市城邦創造出最輝煌的美洲文明 — 馬雅太陽王叫做卡薩．肯．切威身高超過 6 呎活到高壽 80 歲西元 720 年，他就被葬在這神廟下殿中的馬雅碑文描述他深愛自己的妻子因此為她建造了面朝自己的神廟每年春秋兩季，就在春秋分這兩日太陽從他的神廟後方升起神廟投下的陰影，將完全將籠罩妻子的神廟到了傍晚，太陽在妻子神廟後落下自己的神廟就會完全籠罩在妻子的陰影中即使過了 1300 年，這對愛侶仍在墓中相擁相親 世界各地的人們付出愛情他們為愛而歌、因愛而舞寫出關於愛情的詩和故事訴說關於愛情的神話和傳說他們為愛消瘦、為愛而活為愛殺戮也為愛而死惠特曼曾說他說：「喔，我願為愛放棄一切」人類學家在超過 170 個社會中找到愛情的證據他們從未找到一個沒有愛的社會 但愛不總是快樂的在一個大學生的調查中他們問了許多關於愛情的問題其中最引我注意的兩個問題就是你曾經被自己真愛的人拒絕嗎？第二個問題則是你曾經拋棄真正愛妳的人嗎？不管男女，回答兩者皆是的人幾近 95%幾乎沒人能從愛中全身而退 因此，在開始談大腦之前我想先念幾段文字我認為這是世界上最動人的情詩當然，其他情詩也很好不過我認為這首詩真的是無與倫比南阿拉斯加的一名瓜基烏圖族印第安人在 1896 年將這首詩告訴傳教士，詩是這麼說的這是我第一次有機會唸出來愛妳的痛苦，蔓延全身如火燒灼對妳的愛火，燒灼全身痛苦難抑對妳的愛伴隨之苦似水，將沸將滿遭愛情的烈焰吞噬妳的愛語，我不曾忘記妳的愛情，我時時惦記妳的愛情，讓我分崩離析痛苦無盡妳，帶著我的愛情，要往何去我聽說妳將就此離去我聽說妳要將我獨留此地我的身體，現已悲痛無覺我的一字一句，愛人呀，請別忘記再見了，我的愛，後會有期愛蜜莉狄更生曾寫到分離，讓我們體會地獄多少人受此折磨在人類演化的這幾百萬年中？世界上又有多少人在此刻因愛狂喜雀躍？世上最強大感情之一就是浪漫的愛情。 因此，幾年前我便決定深入研究大腦藉此研究這種瘋狂耽溺我們對愛情中的人們所作的第一項研究已大量出版所以，我便不再贅述我們在靠近腦底部的小地方發現腦部活動該處叫做腹側蓋區 (VTA)我們發現了一些名為 ApEn 的細胞這些細胞負責製造多巴胺這種自然的激素然後將之送到腦部的許多區域其實 VTA 區是腦部回饋系統的一部份比負責認知思考的腦區深很多也比負責情緒的腦區深它屬於名為爬蟲類腦的腦部區域跟欲望和動機還有專注與渴望相關事實上，我們發現這個活躍的區域在古柯鹼毒癮發作時，也有相同反應 但浪漫的愛情，不只是吸毒的癮至少，吸毒的癮會過去浪漫的愛情則是一種癡迷，讓人沈淪耽溺令你神魂顛倒、喪失自我你無法停止惦記另一個人有人在你心裡紮營正如 8 世紀日本詩人說的我的渴望無時止息瘋狂就是愛而且，這種迷戀還可能在遭到拒絕後加深 因此現在，露西和我以及研究計畫中的腦神經學家正在觀察實驗樣本的數據這些接受掃描的人，都剛被拋棄這不是件簡單的事讓這些人接受掃描因為他們真是不成人型(笑聲)總之，我們在 3 個腦區發現活動其中一個活動的腦區竟然就是那個與強烈的愛情相關的腦區天呀，真糟糕大家都知道，一但被拋棄我們唯一想做的事就是把這個人忘了然後重新開始生活不過，我們實際上反而愛的更深就像羅馬詩人泰倫斯曾說的他說「希望愈渺，愛情愈炙」現在，我們終於知道原因了2,000 年後，我們可以用大腦活動解釋這一個大腦系統，這個回饋系統負責欲望、動機、渴望和專注在無法遂願時，反而更加活躍就這樣，我們得到生命賜予的最大獻禮一個合適的交配伴侶 我們也在其他腦區發現活動在計算得失的腦區你知道的，你躺在那，看著相片在機器裡你同時也在算計，自己做錯了什麼？為什麼失敗，又失去了什麼？實際上，露西跟我還就這個情況說了個小笑話靈感是大衛馬蒙的戲戲中有男女兩個騙子女的試著誘騙男人上鉤但這個男人看著女人，然後說喔，妳少耍心機了，我才不會上當呢這就是這一個腦區阿肯柏氏核的中樞開始活動就在我們計算得失的時候這個腦區也會開始活躍當我們自願冒極大的險以得到巨大的報償或損失 最後，但卻重要的是，我們在一個腦區發現的活動這和對另一個體的深度依戀有關難怪世上的人都在受苦而且有那麼多因愛犯罪的案例當我們在愛中遭到拒絕我們不只在愛情中滅頂還會對對方產生深度的依戀而且，大腦回饋迴路的作用我們感到極度有活力、專注極度有動力且非常願意窮盡一切贏得生命的大禮 那麼，我到底從這項實驗中學到什麼？我想告訴大家什麼？首先，我開始認為愛情是一種慾望，一種引發交配本能的慾望它不是性慾，因為性慾讓你忘了愛情尋找各式各樣的性伴侶真正的愛情讓我們只將交配精力聚焦在單一對象一次針對一個人，保留我們的交配精力然後跟這個單一對象，開始交配過程回想所有我讀過的情詩柏拉圖說得最好超過 2,000 年前他說「需求產生愛」愛是需求，是衝動是內在恆定的失衡就像饑渴，幾乎不可能壓抑消滅我也開始相信，愛情是一種癮一種在順遂時，極度美好情況有變時則極度糟糕的癮 實際上，愛也有許多和上癮相同的特性我們專注於一個人、無法自拔的想他、渴望他、不惜扭曲事實為了抱得良人歸，我們願意冒極大的險所以，愛情有這 3 大成癮的特性泰倫斯說「你需要更常見到他，再更常見到他」戒癮，之後復發我有個女性朋友，剛結束一段糟糕的戀情8 個月過去了，她開始覺得好一些有一天她正在開車突然聽見收音機放出一首歌讓她想起這個男人最後她，不只是感到那種迫切渴望又回來了她還不得不靠邊將車停在路邊大哭一場因此，我希望醫學界、法學界，甚至是大學學界試著理解，事實上愛情是世上最容易成癮的毒品 我也希望告訴大家，動物也會愛這世上沒有一種動物會任意無選擇的交配太老、太小、太髒、太笨，就不會交配除非困在實驗室籠子裡你知道，要是一輩子都在小盒子裡對於性伴侶，就不會這麼挑剔不過我觀察了一千種物種在野外，動物就是會大小眼實際上動物學家也知道這點他們用 4 個詞形容動物的大小眼選擇知覺、交配選擇、雌性選擇、性選擇而且，已有 3 篇學術論文研究這樣的吸引力雖然只維持短短一秒這就是一種吸引力同樣的腦部區域，這種回饋系統或是回饋系統的化學作用都與之相關實際上，我認為動物的吸引力可能在當下馬上發生我們可以看見大象馬上走向另一隻大象我認為這就是一個開始開始了我們口中的「一見鍾情」 大家常問我我對愛情的了解，會不會讓我對愛情失去興趣我只能說，一點也不正如我們知道巧克力蛋糕的所有材料不過，真正坐下來吃蛋糕時還是覺得很享受當然，我還是會犯同樣的錯犯天下人都會犯的錯不過，這一切都加深了我的了解我對各種人的同理心，其實，在紐約，我常發現自己望著嬰兒車，對裡面的寶寶感到一點遺憾而且，我有時候也覺得有些遺憾看著盤中的雞想到這些大腦系統有多強大我們最新的研究催生者便是我的同事亞特愛倫讓聲稱依然相愛的人們用 MRI 掃描這些身處長期關係中的人們目前我們已經掃描了 5 個人而且也真的發現同樣的事實。他們沒有說謊同樣的腦區跟強烈的愛情相關的地方即使過了 25 年，依然活躍 有待解釋的問題還有很多關於愛情，有待提出的問題也很多目前我正在努力的問題我只稍微談一下，然後就做結語問題就是，我們為什麼只愛上這個人，而不是其他人？我從未思考過這個問題不過 Match.com 這個線上約會網站3 年前找到我，問了這個問題我只能說，我不知道我知道愛情來臨時大腦中發生的活動不過，我不知道為什麼我們只看上這個人而不是另一個人所以，過去 3 年，我都在研究這問題因為許多因素，我們愛上某人而不是其他人。心理學家也這麼告訴我們而且我們比較容易愛上社經背景相同、知識程度相同、外貌相配、信仰價值觀相同的人童年當然是因素之一，不過沒人能肯定其影響方式大概就是這樣。這就是我們所知的全部不，他們從未發現過兩種不同的人格互相結合且營造出良好的關係 因此，我有了個想法也許我們受到的是生理的驅使受特定人士的吸引最後我設計了問卷，可以反應出人們受多巴胺、血清素、 雌激素和睪固酮素影響的程度我想我們演化出了 4 種非常大的人格分類與腦中這 4 種化學物質有關在我建立的約會網站叫做 Chemistry.com，我問了幾個大項的問題看看我們受這幾種化學物質影響的程度然後，我從中觀察大家的選擇全美已有 370 萬人做過這個問卷其他 33 個國家也共有 60 萬人回答目前，我在彙總數據有時候，總是免不了一些「奇蹟之愛」但我相信，我們將能更進一步了解為什麼走進一個房間每個人都來自相同背景、知識程度相似、外貌相配，但卻不是每個人都能吸引我們我想其中必有生理原因我認為，未來幾年內我們將可以了解，怎樣的大腦機制讓我們受特定人士吸引 現在，讓我以此做結。他們是我的長青樣本。福克納曾說「未成定局的過去，都不算過去」的確，我們的包袱很重這包袱來自我們過去對人腦所作的研究不過，仍有一件事激勵我努力了解人類的天性而這正提醒了我這是兩個女人女人的親密關係和男人不同女人透過面對面交談變得親密我們在對方身邊轉給彼此所謂「支持的眼神」，而且我們交談對女人來說，這就是親密我想這是幾百萬年來將寶寶擁在懷裡看著說話哄他、罵他、教他的結果男人則透過身體力行進入親密關係(笑聲)一個人向上看，另一個馬上轉移視線(笑聲)我想這是因為幾百萬年來他們都站在或坐在樹叢後向前看試著把石頭砸到野牛的頭上(笑聲)我想男人幾百萬年來面對敵人所以習慣與朋友肩並肩吧今日我將以此做結：愛，無所不在它深深的刻在我們的腦中真正的困難，是互相了解。謝謝各位。(掌聲)
