Talk	en	zh-tw
heribert_watzke_the_brain_in_your_gut	"This technology made a very important impact on us. It changed the way our history developed. But it's a technology so pervasive, so invisible, that we, for a long time, forgot to take it into account when we talked about human evolution. But we see the results of this technology, still. So let's make a little test. So everyone of you turns to their neighbor please. Turn and face your neighbors. Please, also on the balcony. Smile. Smile. Open the mouths. Smile, friendly. (Laughter) Do you — Do you see any Canine teeth? (Laughter) Count Dracula teeth in the mouths of your neighbors? Of course not. Because our dental anatomy is actually made, not for tearing down raw meat from bones or chewing fibrous leaves for hours. It is made for a diet which is soft, mushy, which is reduced in fibers, which is very easily chewable and digestible. Sounds like fast food, doesn't it. (Laughter) It's for cooked food. We carry in our face the proof that cooking, food transformation, made us what we are. So I would suggest that we change how we classify ourselves. We talk about ourselves as omnivores. I would say, we should call ourselves coctivors — (Laughter) from coquere, to cook. We are the animals who eat cooked food. No, no, no, no. Better — to live of cooked food. So cooking is a very important technology. It's technology. I don't know how you feel, but I like to cook for entertainment. And you need some design to be successful. So, cooking is a very important technology, because it allowed us to acquire what brought you all here: the big brain, this wonderful cerebral cortex we have. Because brains are expensive. Those have to pay tuition fees know. (Laughter) But it's also, metabolically speaking, expensive. You now, our brain is two to three percent of the body mass, but actually it uses 25 percent of the total energy we use. It's very expensive. Where does the energy come from. Of course, from food. If we eat raw food, we cannot release really the energy. So this ingenuity of our ancestors, to invent this most marvelous technology. Invisible — everyone of us does it every day, so to speak. Cooking made it possible that mutations, natural selections, our environment, could develop us. So if we think about this unleashing human potential, which was possible by cooking and food, why do we talk so badly about food? Why is it always do and don'ts and it's good for you, it's not good for you? I think the good news for me would be if we could go back and talk about the unleashing, the continuation of the unleashing of human potential. Now, cooking allowed also that we became a migrant species. We walked out of Africa two times. We populated all the ecologies. If you can cook, nothing can happen to you, because whatever you find, you will try to transform it. It keeps also your brain working. Now the very easy and simple technology which was developed actually runs after this formula. Take something which looks like food, transform it, and it gives you a good, very easy, accessible energy. This technology affected two organs, the brain and the gut, which it actually affected. The brain could grow, but the gut actually shrunk. Okay, it's not obvious to be honest. (Laughter) But it shrunk to 60 percent of primate gut of my body mass. So because of having cooked food, it's easier to digest. Now having a large brain, as you know, is a big advantage, because you can actually influence your environment. You can influence your own technologies you have invented. You can continue to innovate and invent. Now the big brain did this also with cooking. But how did it actually run this show? How did it actually interfere? What kind of criteria did it use? And this is actually taste reward and energy. You know we have up to five tastes, three of them sustain us. Sweet — energy. Umami — this is a meaty taste. You need proteins for muscles, recovery. Salty, because you need salt, otherwise your electric body will not work. And two tastes which protect you — bitter and sour, which are against poisonous and rotten material. But of course, they are hard-wired but we use them still in a sophisticated way. Think about bittersweet chocolate; or think about the acidity of yogurt — wonderful — mixed with strawberry fruits. So we can make mixtures of all this kind of thing because we know that, in cooking, we can transform it to the form. Reward: this is a more complex and especially integrative form of our brain with various different elements — the external states, our internal states, how do we feel, and so on are put together. And something which maybe you don't like but you are so hungry that you really will be satisfied to eat. So satisfaction was a very important part. And as I say, energy was necessary. Now how did the gut actually participate in this development? And the gut is a silent voice — it's going more for feelings. I use the euphemism digestive comfort — actually — it's a digestive discomfort, which the gut is concerned with. If you get a stomach ache, if you get a little bit bloated, was not the right food, was not the right cooking manipulation or maybe other things went wrong. So my story is a tale of two brains, because it might surprise you, our gut has a full-fledged brain. All the managers in the room say, ""You don't tell me something new, because we know, gut feeling. This is what we are using."" (Laughter) And actually you use it and it's actually useful. Because our gut is connected to our emotional limbic system, they do speak with each other and make decisions. But what it means to have a brain there is that, not only the big brain has to talk with the food, the food has to talk with the brain, because we have to learn actually how to talk to the brains. Now if there's a gut brain, we should also learn to talk with this brain. Now 150 years ago, anatomists described very, very carefully — here is a model of a wall of a gut. I took the three elements — stomach, small intestine and colon. And within this structure, you see these two pinkish layers, which are actually the muscle. And between this muscle, they found nervous tissues, a lot of nervous tissues, which penetrate actually the muscle — penetrate the submucosa, where you have all the elements for the immune system. The gut is actually the largest immune system, defending your body. It penetrates the mucosa. This is the layer which actually touches the food you are swallowing and you digest, which is actually the lumen. Now if you think about the gut, the gut is — if you could stretch it — 40 meters long, the length of a tennis court. If we could unroll it, get out all the folds and so on, it would have 400 sq. meters of surface. And now this brain takes care over this, to move it with the muscles and to do defend the surface and, of course, digest our food we cook. So if we give you a specification, this brain, which is autonomous, have 500 million nerve cells, 100 million neurons — so around the size of a cat brain, so there sleeps a little cat — thinks for itself, optimizes whatever it digests. It has 20 different neuron types. It's got the same diversity you find actually in a pig brain, where you have 100 billion neurons. It has autonomous organized microcircuits, has these programs which run. It senses the food; it knows exactly what to do. It senses it by chemical means and very importantly by mechanical means, because it has to move the food — it has to mix all the various elements which we need for digestion. This control of muscle is very, very important, because, you know, there can be reflexes. If you don't like a food, especially if you're a child, you gag. It's this brain which makes this reflex. And then finally, it controls also the secretion of this molecular machinery, which actually digests the food we cook. Now how do the two brains work with each other? I took here a model from robotics — it's called the Subsumption Architecture. What it means is that we have a layered control system. The lower layer, our gut brain, has its own goals — digestion defense — and we have the higher brain with the goal of integration and generating behaviors. Now both look — and this is the blue arrows — both look to the same food, which is in the lumen and in the area of your intestine. The big brain integrates signals, which come from the running programs of the lower brain, But subsumption means that the higher brain can interfere with the lower. It can replace, or it can inhibit actually, signals. So if we take two types of signals — a hunger signal for example. If you have an empty stomach, your stomach produces a hormone called ghrelin. It's a very big signal; it's sent to the brain says, ""Go and eat."" You have stop signals — we have up to eight stop signals. At least in my case, they are not listened to. (Laughter) So what happens if the big brain in the integration overrides the signal? So if you override the hunger signal, you can have a disorder, which is called anorexia. Despite generating a healthy hunger signal, the big brain ignores it and activates different programs in the gut. The more usual case is overeating. It actually takes the signal and changes it, and we continue, even [though] our eight signals would say, ""Stop, enough. We have transferred enough energy."" Now the interesting thing is that, along this lower layer — this gut — the signal becomes stronger and stronger if undigested, but digestible, material could penetrate. This we found from bariatric surgery. That then the signal would be very, very high. So now back to the cooking question and back to the design. We have learned to talk to the big brain — taste and reward, as you know. Now what would be the language we have to talk to the gut brain that its signals are so strong that the big brain cannot ignore it? Then we would generate something all of us would like to have — a balance between the hunger and the satiation. Now I give you, from our research, a very short claim. This is fat digestion. You have on your left an olive oil droplet, and this olive oil droplet gets attacked by enzymes. This is an in vitro experiment. It's very difficult to work in the intestine. Now everyone would expect that when the degradation of the oil happens, when the constituents are liberated, they disappear, they go away because they [were] absorbed. Actually, what happens is that a very intricate structure appears. And I hope you can see that there are some ring-like structures in the middle image, which is water. This whole system generates a huge surface to allow more enzymes to attack the remaining oil. And finally, on your right side, you see a bubbly, cell-like structure appearing, from which the body will absorb the fat. Now if we could take this language — and this is a language of structures — and make it longer-lasting, that it can go through the passage of the intestine, it would generate stronger signals. So our research — and I think the research also at the universities — are now fixing on these points to say: how can we actually — and this might sound trivial now to you — how can we change cooking? How can we cook that we have this language developed? So what we have actually, it's not an omnivore's dilemma. We have a coctivor's opportunity, because we have learned over the last two million years which taste and reward — quite sophisticated to cook — to please ourselves, to satisfy ourselves. If we add the matrix, if we add the structure language, which we have to learn, when we learn it, then we can put it back; and around energy, we could generate a balance, which comes out from our really primordial operation: cooking. So, to make cooking really a very important element, I would say even philosophers have to change and have to finally recognize that cooking is what made us. So I would say, coquo ergo sum: I cook, therefore I am. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	這項技術對我們產生了巨大的影響它改變了我們人類歷史發展的方向但是它是如此的普遍如此的難以察覺以至於長久以來當我們在討論人類歷史時總是忘記將它納入考量.但是我們仍然看到了這個技術的影響現在，我們來做個小小測試請每個人面向自己身邊的人面向自己座位旁的人看台上的人也請這麼作笑，打開嘴巴友善的微笑.你是否你是否看到對方的犬齒？.數數在你身旁的人嘴裡有幾顆像吸血鬼的尖牙？當然沒有半個因為我們牙齒型態的安排與設計並非用來嘶咬骨頭上的生肉或花許多時間咀嚼充滿纖維的葉子而是設計來咀嚼柔軟、糊狀纖維量少易咀嚼及消化的食物聽起來很像速食，不是嗎？ . 我們的牙齒是設計給烹煮過的食物我們的臉，就是烹煮這個改變食物型態的技術型塑了現代人外型的證據因此我建議我們改變我們原先的自我分類我們總說人類是雜食性動物我倒覺得，我們該稱自己是熟食性動物（coctivors）.衍伸自拉丁文的coqure （烹煮）我們是吃熟食的動物不不不，更好靠熟食生存所以烹煮無疑是很重要的技術這個技術我不知道你們心裡怎麼想但我喜歡烹飪款待別人而且你需要一些巧思才能成功所以烹煮其實是一個很重要的技術因為它讓我們有機會演化、發展出這個讓我們共聚一堂的器官：大腦我們有棒極了的大腦皮質因為演化出大腦是如此昂貴所以我們現在得付學費.而就代謝而言，大腦是耗能的現代人的大腦大約僅佔身體總體重的2-3%但它卻消耗了25%我們所攝取的能量所以它非常耗能而這些能量要從哪裡來呢? 當然是從食物如果我們吃生的食物我們便無法好好的運用其所含的能量而我們聰明的祖先發明了這個非凡的技術儘管每個人天天使用卻仍難以察覺烹煮這項技術使得基因突變、天擇以及環境有機會影響我們的演化與發展 試想看看這項被解放的人類潛能便是因為烹煮與食物才有機會發展為什麼我們如此關注食物為什麼總要考慮吃或不吃或是哪些食物對你有益、哪些有害?我想對我來說好消息是如果我們回頭想想這項被釋放的潛能以及它延續至今的各種影響烹煮這項技術曾使我們成為遷徙性的物種人類曾經兩次走出非洲我們幾乎占據了大多數的生態環境只要會烹煮，生存幾乎沒什麼困難因為不論你找到什麼你都能夠透過烹煮來使之可食因此讓你的腦袋能繼續運作而這項簡單的技術在被發明後便遵循這樣的模式取得某些看起來像食物的東西，然後改變它們它們便能夠提供優質又方便的能量來源 這項技術影響了兩個器官腦以及消化道，尤其是消化道人類的腦變大了，但消化道卻變小了好吧，我承認看起來不是那麼明顯.但相對於其他靈長類動物人類消化道佔總體重的比例減少了60%因為烹煮過的食物更容易消化而擁有較大的腦，就我們所知是非常有利的因為它使人類有能力去改變生存環境改進既有的技術並且持續的創新與發明大腦也改進、創新烹煮方法這實際上是如何進行的呢？大腦如何影響烹煮技術的發展？而它所用的又是怎樣的準則呢？實際上就是味覺、回饋與能量人類具有五種味覺其中三個維持我們生存甜味與能量的攝取有關甘味則是來自肉類蛋白質則是合成肌肉及復原體力所需鹹味人類需要鹽類，否則帶電的身體無法正常運作另外還有兩種味覺是用來保護人類苦味及酸味幫助我們分辨有毒及腐壞的食物即使人類的味覺是天生的但使用味覺的方式卻是人為的複雜精巧想想苦甜巧克力想想優格的酸味多麼美妙混和著莓果的味道 我們可將各種食材隨意組合因為我們知道透過烹煮，食物得以轉化成更好吃、更營養的狀態回饋：這一點更複雜尤其是大腦在整合訊息的狀態跟各種因素：外部環境、內在狀態我們的感受及其他因素等等，加總的影響有些食物可能我們並不喜歡但卻是餓到會心滿意足地吃下所以滿足感是很重要的因素如同我所說的，能量則是必要的 而消化道是怎樣參與烹煮技術發展？消化道無聲地發言仰賴知覺來傳遞訊息也就是消化時的舒適感但實際上，消化不適的感覺才是身體所關注的訊號比如說如果你胃痛或是胃脹氣你就知道哪些食物不該吃、不該那樣料理或者你吃的食物哪些地方不對勁所以我的故事是由兩個腦組成的而這大概會讓你覺得驚訝我們的消化道也有個獨立成熟的大腦有些人也許會說：「這又不是什麼新鮮事，因為我們知道腸胃感，就是直覺（gut feeling）這個詞我們天天都在用啊！」.我們的確都有使用消化道腦，它也的確是有用的消化道與掌管情緒的邊緣系統互相連結彼此互相溝通與傳遞訊息並作出決定我所指的消化道中的腦說明不只是大腦會跟食物溝通食物也必須要傳遞訊息給大腦因此，我們必須要學著跟大腦溝通 此外我們也應該學著跟消化道腦溝通大約一百五十年前解剖學家便對消化道有了精準的描述這是消化道管壁結構的示意圖我列出了消化道的三個器官胃、小腸、結腸細看他們的結構你可以看到兩層粉紅色的結構這兩層是肌肉而在肌肉中間，便存在著神經組織許許多多的神經組織這些神經穿過了肌肉也穿過了黏膜下層黏膜下層與免疫系統有關消化道其實是人體最大的免疫系統防衛你的身體這些神經組織也穿透黏膜層而此層直接與你所吃以及所消化的食物接觸也就是內腔想像一下你的消化道如果你拉開你的消化道它會有四十公尺長大約是網球場的長度如果將它延展開將其中的皺摺都展開它的表面積大約有四百平方公尺 而這隱藏在消化道的腦負責控制消化道肌肉的運作、保護消化道表面當然，也消化烹煮過的食物容我詳細說明消化道腦消化道腦具有自主性有五億個神經細胞一億個神經元大約跟貓的腦一樣大這裡可說是睡著一隻小貓呢!消化道會自己思考並將消化所得的能量妥善運用它有二十種不同的神經元大約跟豬的腦一樣多樣化但人類的消化道有一千億個神經元而消化道有著自主的小型神經迴路依照某些方式運行消化道可感受各種食物，並知道應該怎麼處理它們藉著化學方式，還有更重要的，力學的方式來感受食物因為消化道必須要移動食團並且混合其它消化所需的各種元素所以消化道肌肉的控制是非常非常重要的如你所知，如果不喜歡某種食物，特別是你年幼時，你會作嘔就是消化道腦負責這樣的反射動作最後消化道腦也控制著某些分子的分泌這些分子是用來消化食物的 而腦與消化道中的腦彼此如何合作在這用一個機械科學的模型來解釋稱為「包容式體系結構」指的是我們有著層級式的控制系統較低層級的消化道腦有著自己的職責：消化及防禦另外還有較高層級的腦負責整合身體的各種訊息並引發行為看看藍色的箭頭大腦與消化道腦都能感覺腸腔中的食物也都感測著腸道中相同的區域大腦整合這些訊息而這些訊息其實是來自消化道腦（綠色箭頭）所謂的「包容式」，即較高層級的腦可以影響較低層級的消化道腦大腦可以取代或者該說是抑制腸胃道的訊號（紅色箭頭）我用飢餓跟飽足感來說明比方說，飢餓的訊號如果你肚子空空你的胃便會產生一種叫作飢餓素（ghrelin）的賀爾蒙它是一種很強烈的訊號會被傳送至大腦並且對大腦說「快去吃點東西!！」但身體裡也存在著停止的訊號我們有多達八種的停止訊號不過對我來說這些抑制訊號通常不太管用. 若大腦整合後的訊號凌駕來自消化道的訊號會如何呢？比如說大腦不理會飢餓的訊息會產生叫作精神性厭食的症狀雖然消化道產生了健康的飢餓訊號大腦仍然忽略這樣的訊息並且啟動消化道的其他機制不過更常見的例子是吃得太飽大腦接收到飽的訊息卻改變它讓我們繼續吃雖然有八種訊號會說：「夠了！別吃了！身體已經獲得足夠的能量了！」有趣的是觀察接受減重手術病人會發現在較低層級的消化道中在未消化但可消化的食物通過時這些飽足感的訊號會越變越強飽足感的訊號會非常、非常的高 現在，回到烹煮這項主題以及如何將它設計的更盡善盡美我們已經知道如何跟大腦溝通也就是透過味覺及回饋但是我們應該用什麼樣的語言來跟消化道腦溝通呢？如何才能產生強烈到讓大腦無法忽略的飽足訊號呢？這樣我們就能如大家所願的在飢餓與飽足之間取得巧妙的平衡從我們的研究中可看出一點端倪這是一個脂肪消化的實驗在左邊的是橄欖油的油滴我們以酵素來分解這些油滴這是一個體外的實驗因為很難在腸道中進行這樣的實驗每個人都料想得到油滴會被分解油滴裡面的成分會被釋放出來然後油滴就消失了因為它們會被吸收掉實際上，在消化過程中會產生一種很精巧的結構希望大家可以看得清楚在中間的圖片，有一圈環狀的構造這是水這樣的構造會創造出一個很大的表面積使得更多的消化酵素可以來攻擊、分解這些油滴最後，在右邊的圖片你可以看到泡狀、類細胞的結構產生身體就是從這些結構吸收油脂現在如果我們讓這樣的語言這種結構的語言更持久讓飽足感的訊號穿過整個腸道它就能夠產生更強烈的抑制訊號 所以我們的研究以及其他的研究都指出問題其實是指向我們該怎樣─這對你來說可能無關緊要─改變我們烹煮食物的方式我們要如何烹煮讓食物表達出這些結構語言？所以實際上我們面對的，並不是雜食性動物的難題相反的，我們有的是熟食性動物的契機因為我們已經從過去兩百萬年的經驗中學到藉著味覺以及回饋來設計精巧的飲食來滿足、取悅我們自己故我們在飲食鐵三角中加入食物基質將這些得去了解的食物結構語言納入考量當我們習得這些知識，就能讓結構語言成為圍繞著能量的第三個角我們就可以透過我們最基本的技術，也就是烹煮在味覺、回饋、能量之間取得平衡而要使烹煮這件事成為很重要的元素我想連哲學家都必須要改變並且體認到烹煮這項技術才是使我們之所以為我們的原因 因此，我想說：coquo ergo sum (拉丁語)我煮故我在！謝謝大家 .
