Talk	en	zh-tw
hillel_cooperman_legos_for_grownups	"So, these are the Dark Ages. And the Dark Ages are the time between when you put away the Lego for the last time as a kid, and you decide as an adult that it is okay to play with a kid's toy. Started out with my then four-year-old: ""Oh, should buy the kid some Lego. That stuff's cool."" Walked into the Lego store. Bought him this. It's totally appropriate for a four-year-old. (Laughter) I think the box says — let's see here — ""8 to 12"" on it. I turn to my wife and said, ""Who are we buying this for?"" She's like, ""Oh, us."" I'm like, ""Okay. All right. That's cool."" Pretty soon it got a little bit out of control. The dining room looked like this. You walk there, and it hurts. So we took a room downstairs in the basement that had been used as sort of an Abu Ghraib annex. (Laughter) Torture, very funny. Wow, you guys are great. And we put down those little floor tiles, and then I went onto eBay and bought 150 pounds of Lego — (Laughter) which is insane. My daughter — the day we got it, I was tucking her in — and I said, ""Honey, you're my treasure."" And she said, ""No, the Lego is the treasure."" (Laughter) And then she said, ""Dad, we're Lego rich."" I was like, ""Yeah. I suppose we are."" So then once you do that you're like, ""Oh, crap. Where am I going to put all this?"" So you go to The Container Store and spend an enormous amount of money, and then you start this crazy sorting process that never — it's just nuts. Whatever. So then you realize there are these conventions. And you go to one of these conventions, and some dude built the Titanic. And you're like, ""Holy shit! He had to come in like a truck, a semi, with this thing."" And then someone built this — this is the Smith Tower in Seattle. Just beautiful. And there's a dude selling these aftermarket weapons for Lego, because Lego — the Danish — no, they're not into guns. But the Americans? Oh, we'll make some guns for Lego, no problem. And at a certain point, you look around, you're like, ""Whoa, this is a really nerdy crowd."" And I mean like this is a nerdy crowd, but that's like a couple of levels above furries. (Laughter) The nerds here, they get laid — except for the lady with the condoms in her pocket — and you say to yourself at some point, ""Am I part of this group? Like, am I into this?"" And I was just like, ""Yeah, I guess I am. I'm coming out. I'm kind of into this stuff, and I'm going to stop being embarrassed."" So then you really get into it, and you're like, ""Well, the Lego people in Denmark, they've got all this software to let you build your own virtually."" And so this is like this CAD program where you build it. And then whatever you design virtually, you click the button and it shows up at your doorstep a week later. And then some of the designs that people do they actually sell in the store. The Lego guys don't give you any royalties, strangely, but some user made this and then it sold. And it's pretty amazing actually. Then you notice that if that Lego-provided CAD program isn't enough, there's an entire open-source, third-party, independent Lego CAD program that lets you do 3D modeling and 3D rendering and make, in fact, movies out of Lego, 3D films of which there are thousands on YouTube, and some of them sort of mimicking famous films and some totally original content — just beautiful — and people recreating all sorts of things. I have to take a moment. I love the guy who's like running away with his clasps, his hooks. Okay. Anyway. (Laughter) There's a whole programming language and robotics tool, so if you want to teach someone how to program, kid, adult, whatever it is. And the guy that made this, he made a slot machine out of Lego. And I don't mean he made Lego that looked like a slot machine; I mean he made a slot machine out of Lego. The insides were Lego. There's people getting drunk building Lego, and you've got to finish the thing before you puke. There's a whole gray market for Lego, thousands of home-based businesses. And some people will fund their entire Lego habit by selling the little guy, but then you have no guys in your ships. And then, just some examples. This stuff really is sculpture. This is amazing what you can do. And don't kid yourself: some architectural details, incredible organic shapes and just, even, nature out of, again, little blocks. This is my house. And this is my house. I was afraid a car was going to come smash it as I was taking a picture for you guys. Anyway, I'm out of time. But just very quickly — we'll just see if I can do this quick. Because there aren't enough TED logos around here. (Laughter) Let's see here. Okay. Ta-da. (Applause)"	"大家都經歷過所謂的黑暗時代這黑暗時代是介乎於從你小時候最後一次玩樂高玩具開始到你覺得長大後仍玩樂高玩具其實也沒什麼不可這故事與我當年只有四歲的孩子有關我想：""哎呀，我應該買給孩子樂高玩具""""他一定會很喜歡""然後我就走進樂高玩具店買了這套回家這完全是適合四歲的兒童(笑)我想包裝外殼上寫 —讓我看看 —適齡：8到12歲我問我老婆：""糟糕，我們是要買給誰阿?""她說：""喔，不然自己玩好了""。我回：""好吧，我也挺喜歡這個的"" 很快的事情就有點脫序了不久家裡餐廳就變成這樣走過去不小心還會受傷所以我們就在地下室騰出一個房間這房間原本是用來虐待的(笑)我家有人被虐待這麼好笑你們真是好樣的把餐廳的樂高挪到地下室後沒多久我又馬上到eBay網買了150磅的樂高(笑)根本是發瘋了我女兒，這150磅的樂高送來的當天晚上，睡前我幫她蓋被然後我說""小甜心，妳是我的寶貝""然後她回說：""不是，樂高才是寶貝""(笑)然後她接著說：""老爸，我們是樂高界的郭台銘""我回說：""是呀""""我們是樂高郭台銘""買了這麼多的樂高後你會想到：""喔，我是豬嗎?我得幫這些東西好好找個家""然後就開始逛貨櫃商店（註：美國賣儲物箱的賣場）很快的在裡面買一大堆東西然後就開始作瘋狂的分類工作從來沒有如此瘋狂事情大概就這樣 接著你會注意到一些同好社團，會試著加入在裡面你會發現，有很多吃飽閒著的人會打造像鐵達尼號這種大物你會大叫：""我的媽""""他大概得用一台卡車""""還是一台拖車才能把這玩意兒載走""有人還作了這個，西雅圖的史密斯大廈多美呀還有個閒人開了店來賣樂高的武器零件因為樂高——丹麥這國家他們沒這麼喜歡武器但美國人呢?噢，我們一定要在樂高世界裡添購武器到了某個時刻，你望望四周你覺得：""唉呦，真是一大群怪人呀""我所謂的怪真的是比全身長毛的人還要怪(笑)這些怪人，對什麼事都沒興趣除了皮包裡永遠都有保險套的辣妹結果我發現自己跟他們越來越像""我跟這些人混在一起?"" ""我是這種人嗎?""我承認，沒錯，我是我想通了我已經變成這樣的人了，我不該感到尷尬丟臉 所以我就一頭完全的栽進去了而且，丹麥的樂高總部發展了一套軟體讓你可以在電腦上拼樂高這個像CAD的軟體（註：運用電腦軟體製作並模擬實物設計）不論你設計了多怪的東西你只要點滑鼠，過一個星期實體就會送到你家門口了有些設計師就專門做這種生意他們會把自己的作品放在樂高商店賣真怪耶，樂高的老闆又不會付你設計版稅但就是有人會這樣做真的非常瘋狂 你們也會注意到如果這種CAD程式有所不足怎麼辦有人開發出另一款軟體同時還開放程式碼讓你可以3D建模（用多邊形組合成立體模型）3D渲染（在立體模型上貼顏色或材質）有人用樂高拍影片這類影片Youtube上有一大堆有些影片會模仿最受歡迎的電影有一些是自創的影片超棒的有人會重現某些場景我要講一下這個我喜歡這個小人用像小鉤子的手扣住車跑動的樣子沒錯，就像這樣 (笑) 左邊是一個能編寫程式語言來操縱機器人的工具若想教某人去編寫程式不論對象是小孩，還是大人都可以有人做出右邊這個樂高吃角子老虎這可不是只有外表像吃角子老虎這整台真的都是樂高連內部的運作零件都是樂高 這些高手可以醉醺醺的組裝樂高然後在嘔吐之前把作品完成這是樂高的地下市場宛如一個""家庭代工""市場有很多人靠對樂高的喜好來賺錢就賣這些小東西你想要什麼角色在船上這裡統統有 再跟各位分享。有人可以把樂高弄的超像雕塑品你沒辦法想像有人可以弄成這樣我可沒亂講原建築的細節，生物的外觀特徵都能用這小小的積木堆疊出來這是我家這也是我家當我在拍這張照片的時候超怕有台車經過輾暴我家 天阿，我快沒時間了我要非常快速的讓你們看看我組裝的實力我發現這裡的TED標誌實在有點少(笑)快好了完成將將 (掌聲)"
