Talk	en	zh-tw
holly_morris_why_stay_in_chernobyl_because_it_s_home	"Three years ago, I was standing about a hundred yards from Chernobyl nuclear reactor number four. My Geiger counter dosimeter, which measures radiation, was going berserk, and the closer I got, the more frenetic it became, and frantic. My God. I was there covering the 25th anniversary of the world's worst nuclear accident, as you can see by the look on my face, reluctantly so, but with good reason, because the nuclear fire that burned for 11 days back in 1986 released 400 times as much radiation as the bomb dropped on Hiroshima, and the sarcophagus, which is the covering over reactor number four, which was hastily built 27 years ago, now sits cracked and rusted and leaking radiation. So I was filming. I just wanted to get the job done and get out of there fast. But then, I looked into the distance, and I saw some smoke coming from a farmhouse, and I'm thinking, who could be living here? I mean, after all, Chernobyl's soil, water and air, are among the most highly contaminated on Earth, and the reactor sits at the the center of a tightly regulated exclusion zone, or dead zone, and it's a nuclear police state, complete with border guards. You have to have dosimeter at all times, clicking away, you have to have a government minder, and there's draconian radiation rules and constant contamination monitoring. The point being, no human being should be living anywhere near the dead zone. But they are. It turns out an unlikely community of some 200 people are living inside the zone. They're called self-settlers. And almost all of them are women, the men having shorter lifespans in part due to overuse of alcohol, cigarettes, if not radiation. Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated at the time of the accident, but not everybody accepted that fate. The women in the zone, now in their 70s and 80s, are the last survivors of a group who defied authorities and, it would seem, common sense, and returned to their ancestral homes inside the zone. They did so illegally. As one woman put it to a soldier who was trying to evacuate her for a second time, ""Shoot me and dig the grave. Otherwise, I'm going home."" Now why would they return to such deadly soil? I mean, were they unaware of the risks or crazy enough to ignore them, or both? The thing is, they see their lives and the risks they run decidedly differently. Now around Chernobyl, there are scattered ghost villages, eerily silent, strangely charming, bucolic, totally contaminated. Many were bulldozed under at the time of the accident, but a few are left like this, kind of silent vestiges to the tragedy. Others have a few residents in them, one or two ""babushkas,"" or ""babas,"" which are the Russian and Ukrainian words for grandmother. Another village might have six or seven residents. So this is the strange demographic of the zone — isolated alone together. And when I made my way to that piping chimney I'd seen in the distance, I saw Hanna Zavorotnya, and I met her. She's the self-declared mayor of Kapavati village, population eight. (Laughter) And she said to me, when I asked her the obvious, ""Radiation doesn't scare me. Starvation does."" And you have to remember, these women have survived the worst atrocities of the 20th century. Stalin's enforced famines of the 1930s, the Holodomor, killed millions of Ukrainians, and they faced the Nazis in the '40s, who came through slashing, burning, raping, and in fact many of these women were shipped to Germany as forced labor. So when a couple decades into Soviet rule, Chernobyl happened, they were unwilling to flee in the face of an enemy that was invisible. So they returned to their villages and are told they're going to get sick and die soon, but five happy years, their logic goes, is better than 10 stuck in a high rise on the outskirts of Kiev, separated from the graves of their mothers and fathers and babies, the whisper of stork wings on a spring afternoon. For them, environmental contamination may not be the worst sort of devastation. It turns out this holds true for other species as well. Wild boar, lynx, moose, they've all returned to the region in force, the very real, very negative effects of radiation being trumped by the upside of a mass exodus of humans. The dead zone, it turns out, is full of life. And there is a kind of heroic resilience, a kind of plain-spoken pragmatism to those who start their day at 5 a.m. pulling water from a well and end it at midnight poised to beat a bucket with a stick and scare off wild boar that might mess with their potatoes, their only company a bit of homemade moonshine vodka. And there's a patina of simple defiance among them. ""They told us our legs would hurt, and they do. So what?"" I mean, what about their health? The benefits of hardy, physical living, but an environment made toxic by a complicated, little-understood enemy, radiation. It's incredibly difficult to parse. Health studies from the region are conflicting and fraught. The World Health Organization puts the number of Chernobyl-related deaths at 4,000, eventually. Greenpeace and other organizations put that number in the tens of thousands. Now everybody agrees that thyroid cancers are sky high, and that Chernobyl evacuees suffer the trauma of relocated peoples everywhere: higher levels of anxiety, depression, alcoholism, unemployment and, importantly, disrupted social networks. Now, like many of you, I have moved maybe 20, 25 times in my life. Home is a transient concept. I have a deeper connection to my laptop than any bit of soil. So it's hard for us to understand, but home is the entire cosmos of the rural babushka, and connection to the land is palpable. And perhaps because these Ukrainian women were schooled under the Soviets and versed in the Russian poets, aphorisms about these ideas slip from their mouths all the time. ""If you leave, you die."" ""Those who left are worse off now. They are dying of sadness."" ""Motherland is motherland. I will never leave."" What sounds like faith, soft faith, may actually be fact, because the surprising truth — I mean, there are no studies, but the truth seems to be that these women who returned to their homes and have lived on some of the most radioactive land on Earth for the last 27 years, have actually outlived their counterparts who accepted relocation, by some estimates up to 10 years. How could this be? Here's a theory: Could it be that those ties to ancestral soil, the soft variables reflected in their aphorisms, actually affect longevity? The power of motherland so fundamental to that part of the world seems palliative. Home and community are forces that rival even radiation. Now radiation or not, these women are at the end of their lives. In the next decade, the zone's human residents will be gone, and it will revert to a wild, radioactive place, full only of animals and occasionally daring, flummoxed scientists. But the spirit and existence of the babushkas, whose numbers have been halved in the three years I've known them, will leave us with powerful new templates to think about and grapple with, about the relative nature of risk, about transformative connections to home, and about the magnificent tonic of personal agency and self-determination. Thank you. (Applause)"	三年前，我站在距離車諾比第四號核子反應爐大約一百碼外。我的蓋革放射量測定器，用來測量輻射量，指數狂飆，當我越接近，機器的反應越激烈，我的天。 我當時在那裡播報世上最嚴重的核災事故 25 週年報導，你可以看到我臉上的表情，不太情願，但是我有個好理由，因為 1986 年時核火災延燒了 11 天，釋放的輻射量大約是投擲在廣島的原子彈的 400 倍，而用來覆蓋第四號反應爐的「石棺」在 27 年前匆促完成，現在已破裂、生鏽，並且釋出輻射。 當時我在拍攝，只想把工作完成，趕快離開現場。在那當下，我望向遠方，看到農舍上冉冉昇起的炊煙。我想，誰會住在這裡？我的意思是畢竟車諾比的泥土、水和空氣是世界上受到最嚴重污染的地方之一，而反應爐座落在嚴密管制禁區的中央，或者說是死亡禁區，那是一個核能警察國家，有邊防警察。你得時時刻刻帶著放射量測定器，你得要有政府官員陪同，而且還有很嚴格的輻射法規，以及不間斷的污染監測。重點是，沒有人可以住在靠近死亡禁區的任何一個角落。但是他們卻住在那裡。 結果是一群不太像社區的200 人住在裡面，他們被稱為自主移居者。他們幾乎全都是女性，男性的壽命較短有一部分是因為他們飲酒過量、抽煙，如果排除輻射因素的話。在意外發生時有成千上萬人被撤離，但不是每個人都接受這樣的命運安排。住在禁區的女性現在大概 7、80 歲，是最後一批違反公權力的倖存者，對他們來說這就像常識，回到他們在禁區裡的故鄉。這麼做其實是違法的。其中一名女性向第二次要驅離她的士兵表明：「一槍斃了我，然後幫我挖個墳。否則我要回家了。」 那麼為什麼他們要回到如此致命的土地上呢？我的意思是，他們有意識到這些風險嗎？或是他們瘋狂到可以忽略這個事實？還是說兩者都是？重點是，他們肯定用很不同的方式看待自己的生命和要冒的險。 如今車諾比附近到處是毫無人煙的村莊，靜得嚇人，詭譎迷人的氣息，一片荒蕪，完全受到污染。在那次的意外中有許多房屋被剷平，但是有一些遺留下來，就像這樣，有點像是災難過後的死寂遺跡。有一些居民住在這樣的房屋裡，一到兩位「巴布希卡」(babushka) 或「巴巴」(baba)，在俄語和烏克蘭語中指的是祖母。另一個村莊也許有六到七個居民，因此成了這個地區中特異的人口分布：孤零零的獨居與聚集。 當我往前走向在遠處看見那個冒著煙的煙囪，我看到漢娜．沃洛纽克，向前和她接觸。她是卡拉瓦帝村莊的自立村長，管轄八個人。（笑聲）在我提出顯而易見的問題時，她告訴我：「輻射嚇不了我，餓肚子才會。」 你得要記得，這些女性從 20 世紀最惡劣的環境中活過來了。史達林在 1930 年代引起的烏克蘭大飢荒，造成上百萬名烏克蘭人死亡；而且他們在 1940 年代歷經納粹人虐待、焚燒、性侵的暴行，而且事實上，其中有許多女性被運到德國做苦力。因此在蘇維埃政權生活數十年後發生了車諾比事件，他們不願意因為這個看不見的敵人而離開。因此他們回到自己的村莊，被告知會在短期內生病、死亡，但是過了五年快樂的日子，他們理所當然認為這總好過十年被困在基輔郊區的高樓裡，這總好過被迫離開他們父母和孩子的墳墓，還有鸛鳥在春天午後翱翔時的吟唱聲。對他們來說，環境的污染也許不是最悲慘的蹂躪。結果對其它物種來說也同樣如此。大批的野豬、山貓、麋鹿都回到這個地區，輻射造成的真實又消極影響已被一大群移出者戰勝了。死亡禁區反而變得欣欣向榮， 有一種如英雄般的韌性，一種坦率的務實存在之中，他們在早上五點展開新的一天，從井中打水；結束一天的生活後，在夜裡準備劈好一桶木柴、嚇跑那些會踐踏馬鈴薯田的野豬，唯一陪伴他們的是私釀伏特加。在他們身上有些許挑釁的神情，「他們說我的腳會受傷，還真的受傷了，但是那又如何？」然而，他們的身體健康嗎？擁有身強體壯和物質生活的好處，但是身在有毒的環境，面對一個複雜、所知甚少的敵人：輻射。這個問題實在很難釐清。針對那個地區做的健康研究都很矛盾又漏洞百出。世界衛生組織估計與車諾比事件相關的死亡人數有 4,000 人。綠色和平和其它組織估計有上萬人。現在每個人都同意甲狀腺癌的罹患率奇高，在車諾比事件中的撤離者飽受重新安置的創傷之苦：更嚴重的焦慮、沮喪、酗酒、失業，還有更重要的是社交圈瓦解。 現在，就像在座的你們一樣，我這輩子大概搬了 20、25 次家，家是一種短暫的概念。相較於任何一片土地，我和我的筆電有更深刻的連結。這對我們來說很難理解，但是家的概念就是這群村婦的全世界，與土地的連結是顯而易見的。也許是因為這些烏克蘭婦女在蘇維埃政權下接受教育，熟讀俄國詩歌和格言，與這些相關的觀念隨時都能輕易地從她們口中頌出。 「如果你離開，就會逝去。」 「那些離開的人處境每況愈下，他們都悲傷地死去。」 「家鄉就是家鄉，我永遠都不會離開。」 那些聽起來像是信念，溫柔的信念，也許才是事實，因為那些出乎意料之外的真相——畢竟沒有任何研究證明，只是真相似乎是那些回到家鄉的婦女至今生活在這片全世界最高放射污染的土地上已長達 27 年，相較於與她們有同樣處境，但是接受安置的人們，她們的壽命預估多於十年。 這怎麼可能？有一個理論是：有沒有可能那些與祖先土地的連結，那些在他們的格言中展現的可變因子，其實也影響了壽命？家鄉的力量對那部分的世界來說如此重要，似乎能夠帶來療癒。家與社群是一種力量，即使連輻射都能抵抗。 不管有沒有輻射，這些婦女都走到了她們的生命盡頭。未來十年，禁區的居民都會過世，這片土地會恢復為荒野，有輻射的地方，只有滿滿的動物和偶爾出現膽大又困惑的科學家。但是這些老奶奶的精神與生活方式──儘管在我認識她們的三年中人數已減少了一半──將留給我們強而有力的新模式，讓我們得以省思風險的相對涵義，讓我們得以攫取一種變遷中的家的聯繫，也讓我們得以反思，並且獲得那滋養個人決心的動力。 謝謝！ （掌聲）
