Talk	en	zh-tw
homaro_cantu_ben_roche_cooking_as_alchemy	Ben Roche: So I'm Ben, by the way. Homaro Cantu: And I'm Homaro. BR: And we're chefs. So when Moto opened in 2004, people didn't really know what to expect. A lot of people thought that it was a Japanese restaurant, and maybe it was the name, maybe it was the logo, which was like a Japanese character, but anyway, we had all these requests for Japanese food, which is really not what we did. And after about the ten thousandth request for a maki roll, we decided to give the people what they wanted. So this picture is an example of printed food, and this was the first foray into what we like to call flavor transformation. So this is all the ingredients, all the flavor of, you know, a standard maki roll, printed onto a little piece of paper. HC: So our diners started to get bored with this idea, and we decided to give them the same course twice, so here we actually took an element from the maki roll and and took a picture of a dish and then basically served that picture with the dish. So this dish in particular is basically champagne with seafood. The champagne grapes that you see are actually carbonated grapes. A little bit of seafood and some crème fraiche and the picture actually tastes exactly like the dish. (Laughter) BR: But it's not all just edible pictures. We decided to do something a little bit different and transform flavors that were very familiar — so in this case, we have carrot cake. So we take a carrot cake, put it in a blender, and we have kind of like a carrot cake juice, and then that went into a balloon frozen in liquid nitrogen to create this hollow shell of carrot cake ice cream, I guess, and it comes off looking like, you know, Jupiter's floating around your plate. So yeah, we're transforming things into something that you have absolutely no reference for. HC: And here's something we have no reference to eat. This is a cigar, and basically it's a Cuban cigar made out of a Cuban pork sandwich, so we take these spices that go into the pork shoulder, we fashion that into ash. We take the sandwich and wrap it up in a collard green, put an edible label that bears no similarity to a Cohiba cigar label, and we put it in a dollar ninety-nine ashtray and charge you about twenty bucks for it. (Laughter) HC: Delicious. BR: That's not it, though. Instead of making foods that look like things that you wouldn't eat, we decided to make ingredients look like dishes that you know. So this is a plate of nachos. The difference between our nachos and the other guy's nachos, is that this is actually a dessert. So the chips are candied, the ground beef is made from chocolate, and the cheese is made from a shredded mango sorbet that gets shredded into liquid nitrogen to look like cheese. And after doing all of this dematerialization and reconfiguring of this, of these ingredients, we realized that it was pretty cool, because as we served it, we learned that the dish actually behaves like the real thing, where the cheese begins to melt. So when you're looking at this thing in the dining room, you have this sensation that this is actually a plate of nachos, and it's not really until you begin tasting it that you realize this is a dessert, and it's just kind of like a mind-ripper. (Laughter) HC: So we had been creating all of these dishes out of a kitchen that was more like a mechanic's shop than a kitchen, and the next logical step for us was to install a state-of-the-art laboratory, and that's what we have here. So we put this in the basement, and we got really serious about food, like serious experimentation. BR: One of the really cool things about the lab, besides that we have a new science lab in the kitchen, is that, you know, with this new equipment, and this new approach, all these different doors to creativity that we never knew were there began to open, and so the experiments and the food and the dishes that we created, they just kept going further and further out there. HC: Let's talk about flavor transformation, and let's actually make some cool stuff. You see a cow with its tongue hanging out. What I see is a cow about to eat something delicious. What is that cow eating? And why is it delicious? So the cow, basically, eats three basic things in their feed: corn, beets, and barley, and so what I do is I actually challenge my staff with these crazy, wild ideas. Can we take what the cow eats, remove the cow, and then make some hamburgers out of that? And basically the reaction tends to be kind of like this. (Laughter) BR: Yeah, that's our chef de cuisine, Chris Jones. This is not the only guy that just flips out when we assign a ridiculous task, but a lot of these ideas, they're hard to understand. They're hard to just get automatically. There's a lot of research and a lot of failure, trial and error — I guess, more error — that goes into each and every dish, so we don't always get it right, and it takes a while for us to be able to explain that to people. HC: So, after about a day of Chris and I staring at each other, we came up with something that was pretty close to the hamburger patty, and as you can see it basically forms like hamburger meat. This is made from three ingredients: beets, barley, corn, and so it actually cooks up like hamburger meat, looks and tastes like hamburger meat, and not only that, but it's basically removing the cow from the equation. So replicating food, taking it into that next level is where we're going. (Applause) BR: And it's definitely the world's first bleeding veggie burger, which is a cool side effect. And a miracle berry, if you're not familiar with it, is a natural ingredient, and it contains a special property. It's a glycoprotein called miraculin, a naturally occurring thing. It still freaks me out every time I eat it, but it has a unique ability to mask certain taste receptors on your tongue, so that primarily sour taste receptors, so normally things that would taste very sour or tart, somehow begin to taste very sweet. HC: You're about to eat a lemon, and now it tastes like lemonade. Let's just stop and think about the economic benefits of something like that. We could eliminate sugar across the board for all confectionary products and sodas, and we can replace it with all-natural fresh fruit. BR: So you see us here cutting up some watermelon. The idea with this is that we're going to eliminate tons of food miles, wasted energy, and overfishing of tuna by creating tuna, or any exotic produce or item from a very far-away place, with local, organic produce; so we have a watermelon from Wisconsin. HC: So if miracle berries take sour things and turn them into sweet things, we have this other pixie dust that we put on the watermelon, and it makes it go from sweet to savory. So after we do that, we put it into a vacuum bag, add a little bit of seaweed, some spices, and we roll it, and this starts taking on the appearance of tuna. So the key now is to make it behave like tuna. BR: And then after a quick dip into some liquid nitrogen to get that perfect sear, we really have something that looks, tastes and behaves like the real thing. HC: So the key thing to remember here is, we don't really care what this tuna really is. As long as it's good for you and good for the environment, it doesn't matter. But where is this going? How can we take this idea of tricking your tastebuds and leapfrog it into something that we can do today that could be a disruptive food technology? So here's the next challenge. I told the staff, let's just take a bunch of wild plants, think of them as food ingredients. As long as they're non-poisonous to the human body, go out around Chicago sidewalks, take it, blend it, cook it and then have everybody flavor-trip on it at Moto. Let's charge them a boatload of cash for this and see what they think. (Laughter) BR: Yeah, so you can imagine, a task like this — this is another one of those assignments that the kitchen staff hated us for. But we really had to almost relearn how to cook in general, because these are ingredients, you know, plant life that we're, one, unfamiliar with, and two, we have no reference for how to cook these things because people don't eat them. So we really had to think about new, creative ways to flavor, new ways to cook and to change texture — and that was the main issue with this challenge. HC: So this is where we step into the future and we leapfrog ahead. So developing nations and first-world nations, imagine if you could take these wild plants and consume them, food miles would basically turn into food feet. This disruptive mentality of what food is would essentially open up the encyclopedia of what raw ingredients are, even if we just swapped out, say, one of these for flour, that would eliminate so much energy and so much waste. And to give you a simple example here as to what we actually fed these customers, there's a bale of hay there and some crab apples. And basically we took hay and crab apples and made barbecue sauce out of those two ingredients. People swore they were eating barbecue sauce, and this is free food. BR: Thanks, guys. (Applause)	班：所以，順便一題，我是班何馬若：而我是何馬若班：我們是廚師。所以摩托餐廳於2004年開幕時，大家都搞不清楚到底我們在玩什麼。很多人以為這是家日本料理餐廳，或許是因為餐廳名字，或許是因為餐廳商標真的很像日本字反正，我們收到一大堆詢問要點日本菜，可是我們真的不是做日本料理的。就在我們收到第一萬份要點壽司卷的詢問後我們決定要供應大家想吃的東西。所以這張圖片是「印表機食物」樣品，這也是我們第一次進軍我們稱之為味覺轉化的實驗。所以你知道，就是把製作壽司卷的材料及壽司卷的味道，印在一張小小的紙上給客人吃 何：我們的客人很快就對這個點子失去興趣了，因此我們決定把同一道菜上兩次，也就是說我們仿造「壽司卷紙」這道菜照了一道菜的相片，然後就把這道菜的相片及這道菜一起端上桌所以現在這道菜基本上是香檳配海鮮這裡的香檳葡萄其實是灌了二氧化碳（發泡）的葡萄，再放一點海鮮以及crème fraiche （法式酸奶油）而這張相片吃起來味道就像這道菜。（笑聲）班：不過不只是可食用的相片我們還決定要做點不一樣的東西來轉變那些很熟悉的味道—所以情況就是我們要挑戰紅蘿蔔蛋糕所以我們拿了一個紅蘿蔔蛋糕把它放進果汁機裡攪一攪，就得到很像紅蘿蔔蛋糕果汁的東西，然後放進氣球裡，再用液態氮冰凍做成這個中空的東西，我覺得很像紅蘿蔔蛋糕冰淇淋，而且成品呢看起來很像，你知道木星飄浮在盤子上 所以是的，我們要把食材變成你完全無法聯想的另一種食物何：這個是我們絕對想不到可以吃的東西。這是雪茄而且還是一枝古巴雪茄用古巴豬肉三明治做的，我們把這些醃豬肩胛肉所需的香料做成煙灰的樣子。我們把三明治用甘藍菜葉包起來，再用一張可以吃的紙作商標看起來一點都不像可喜巴雪茄，我們把它放在一個1.99美元的煙灰缸裡，然後收你大約20美元吃這道菜。（笑聲）何：真好！ 班：但這不是我們的目的。除了做一些讓你看起來不能吃的食物給你吃之外我們還做了一些看起來很熟悉的食物這是一盤墨西哥玉米片但是這盤玉米片跟你所知道的玉米片的不同在於這盤玉米片其實是道甜點所以這些脆片其實是糖片牛絞肉是巧可力做的起士則是以削成條狀的芒果雪酪充當，因為削完後就放在液態氮裡，所以看起來真的很像起士就在把這些材料拆散重組後我們瞭解到其實這還滿酷的因為我們出這道菜時，發現這道假玉米片裝的還真像因為「起士」開始融化了所以當你坐在我們的餐廳看這這道菜，你會以為這真的是盤墨西哥玉米片直到你吃了之後才會恍然大悟原來這是甜品有一種精神分裂的感覺（笑聲） 何：所以我們在一個一點都不像廚房卻比較像修車場的地方實驗這些菜所以下一步理所當然是打造一個擁有最新科技的實驗室這個就是我們的實驗室我們蓋在地下室，而且我們開始很認真地看待食物就像真的實驗一樣班：有一件非常酷的事是這個廚房除了有新的科學實驗室外它還有你知道，這些新的儀器以及新的烹調手法而那前所未見、通往創意的門就這樣打開了所以這些實驗，這些食物，還有這些創意菜色，就這樣不斷地產生出來，而且愈來愈勁爆。 何：我們來談談味覺轉變就來做點酷東西吧你一定看過牛把舌頭伸出來的樣子我每次看到都認為牠是準備要吃美味的食物。牛在吃什麼呢？為什麼這麼好吃？所以基本上給牛餵食三樣基本的東西玉米、甜菜及大麥所以我就提出一些瘋狂的點子挑戰我的員工我們能不能拿牛吃的東西但不要用真正的牛肉，來做成漢堡？大家聽到後的反應基本上是這樣的。（笑聲）班：是啊，這是我們的行政主廚克里斯·瓊斯。他不是唯一一個對我們交待的無理差事發火的人，對我們的員工而言我們的想法簡直是匪夷所思很難一說就懂 這些創意菜裡充滿了研究也充滿了失敗、摸索，我猜錯誤居多我們不是一次到位的，通常我們要想很久才能解釋清楚給他們聽何：所以就在我跟克里斯大眼瞪小眼了一整天之後，我們做出一個還滿像漢堡肉的東西，你看它弄起來還真像漢堡肉這東西用三樣材料做成甜菜、大麥及玉米，所以它煮起來像漢堡肉看起來、吃起來像漢堡肉不只這樣，這個東西不需要用牛肉了所以要如何複製食物，並且進展到下一個階段是我們想要做的（掌聲） 班：而且這絕對是世界第一個會「滴血」的素漢堡還滿酷的效果啊還有利用神秘果，如果你沒聽過它是一種天然的食物含有一種特別的物質是稱作神秘果素的糖蛋白是天然形成的，每次我吃神秘果都驚異不已，它有一種特質能遮蔽味蕾上對某些味覺的受體，主要是酸味的受體，所以那些嘗起來酸澀的東西會變的非常甜何：你明明在吃檸檬但味道卻像蜂蜜檸檬汁現在讓我們來想想這種神秘果類的東西有什麼經濟效益說不定我們做餅乾糖果及汽水的時候不需要用糖了我們可以用天然的新鮮水果代替糖 班：你看我們在這裡切西瓜。這個點子的出發點是我們要藉著「製造」鮪魚來減少成千上萬的食物里程，能源浪費以及過度捕撈鮪魚或者用在地的有機農產避免從很遠很遠的地方運送稀有農產或食材；所以我們使用威斯康辛州產的西瓜何：所以如果神秘果能把酸變甜我們還有其他的魔法粉可以撒在西瓜上讓甜變成開胃的好滋味所以我們灑了這種粉在西瓜上之後就把它用真空袋裝著，加了點海苔一些調味料，然後捲起來這東西開始穿上鮪魚裝所以現在的重點是怎麼樣讓它表現的也像鮪魚班：然後很快的把它浸到液態氮裡，完美的封住「肉汁」我們就得到了一個看起來吃起來、表現起來都很像真的鮪魚的東西 何：所以要記住的重點是我們其實一點都不在乎這個「鮪魚」到底是甚麼做的其實這無關緊要只要它對你、對環保都有益可是這可以發展到什麼地步？我們怎樣把這個欺騙你的味蕾的點子發揚光大成馬上就可以應用卻具顛覆性的食品科技？所以這是我們下一個挑戰我告訴員工，就拿一堆野生植物，視他們為食材。去芝加哥市路邊散散步只要他們對人體無毒害就採摘、混和、烹調這些野生植物然後讓摩托餐廳的客人來個風味冒險而且還要收他們很多錢然後看看他們反應如何。（笑聲） 班：對啊，正如你所料，這樣的工作─這是另一個讓我們廚房員工恨我們的差事。但我們真的需要重新學習如何烹調因為你知道，這些食材第一，這些植物都不是我們熟悉的第二，我們也無從得知怎麼煮這些東西，因為這些東西原來是不能吃的所以我們真的需要思索一些新的、有創意的方法來調味，以及新的烹調法還要能改變口感，這是這項挑戰最難的部分 何：這就是我們對未來的挑戰向前跨一大步的地方所以開發中國家還有第一世界的國家想像一下如果你可以拿野生植物來吃，食物里程就可以變成食物旅程這種對「什麼是食物」的革命性心態調整可以拓展百科全書生食材的項目， 即使我們只是譬如說，把上述的野花野草代替麵粉就可以減少許多能源及許多浪費所以我們拿到底我們給顧客吃什麼做一個簡單的例子這裡有一堆稻草還有一些野生酸蘋果基本上我們就是拿稻草及野生酸蘋果作成烤肉醬大家都發誓他們吃到的就是真的烤肉醬，而這兩種食材是免錢的班：謝謝各位 （掌聲）
