Talk	en	zh-tw
hyeonseo_lee_my_escape_from_north_korea	"When I was little, I thought my country was the best on the planet. And I grew up singing a song called ""Nothing To Envy."" And I was very proud. In school, we spent a lot of time studying the history of Kim Il-Sung, but we never learned much about the outside world, except that America, South Korea, Japan are the enemies. Although I often wondered about the outside world, I thought I would spend my entire life in North Korea, until everything suddenly changed. When I was seven years old, I saw my first public execution. But I thought my life in North Korea was normal. My family was not poor, and myself, I had never experienced hunger. But one day, in 1995, my mom brought home a letter from a coworker's sister. It read, ""When you read this, our five family members will not exist in this world, because we haven't eaten for the past three weeks. We are lying on the floor together, and our bodies are so weak, we are waiting to die."" I was so shocked. This was the first time I heard that people in my country were suffering. Soon after, when I was walking past a train station, I saw something terrible that to this day I can't erase from my memory. A lifeless woman was lying on the ground, while an emaciated child in her arms just stared helplessly at his mother's face. But nobody helped them, because they were so focused on taking care of themselves and their families. A huge famine hit North Korea in the mid-1990s. Ultimately, more than a million North Koreans died during the famine, and many only survived by eating grass, bugs and tree bark. Power outages also became more and more frequent, so everything around me was completely dark at night, except for the sea of lights in China, just across the river from my home. I always wondered why they had lights, but we didn't. This is a satellite picture showing North Korea at night, compared to neighbors. This is the Amnok River, which serves as a part of the border between North Korea and China. As you can see, the river can be very narrow at certain points, allowing North Koreans to secretly cross. But many die. Sometimes, I saw dead bodies floating down the river. I can't reveal many details about how I left North Korea, but I only can say that during the ugly years of the famine, I was sent to China to live with distant relatives. But I only thought that I would be separated from my family for a short time. I could have never imagined that it would take 14 years to live together. In China, it was hard living as a young girl without my family. I had no idea what life was going to be like as a North Korean refugee. But I soon learned it's not only extremely difficult, it's also very dangerous, since North Korean refugees are considered in China as illegal migrants. So I was living in constant fear that my identity could be revealed, and I would be repatriated to a horrible fate, back in North Korea. One day, my worst nightmare came true, when I was caught by the Chinese police, and brought to the police station for interrogation. Someone had accused me of being North Korean, so they tested my Chinese language abilities, and asked me tons of questions. I was so scared. I thought my heart was going to explode. If anything seemed unnatural, I could be imprisoned and repatriated. I thought my life was over. But I managed to control all the emotions inside me, and answer the questions. After they finished questioning me, one official said to another, ""This was a false report. She's not North Korean."" And they let me go. It was a miracle. Some North Koreans in China seek asylum in foreign embassies. But many can be caught by the Chinese police, and repatriated. These girls were so lucky. Even though they were caught, they were eventually released, after heavy international pressure. These North Koreans were not so lucky. Every year, countless North Koreans are caught in China and repatriated to North Korea, where they can be tortured, imprisoned, or publicly executed. Even though I was really fortunate to get out, many other North Koreans have not been so lucky. It's tragic that North Koreans have to hide their identities and struggle so hard just to survive. Even after learning a new language and getting a job, their whole world can be turned upside down in an instant. That's why, after 10 years of hiding my identity, I decided to risk going to South Korea. And I started a new life yet again. Settling down in South Korea was a lot more challenging than I had expected. English was so important in South Korea, so I had to start learning my third language. Also, I realized there was a wide gap between North and South. We are all Korean, but inside, we have become very different, due to 67 years of division. I even went through an identity crisis. Am I South Korean or North Korean? Where am I from? Who am I? Suddenly, there was no country I could proudly call my own. Even though adjusting to life in South Korea was not easy, I made a plan — I started studying for the university entrance exam. Just as I was starting to get used to my new life, I received a shocking phone call. The North Korean authorities intercepted some money that I sent to my family, and, as a punishment, my family was going to be forcibly removed to a desolate location in the countryside. They had to get out quickly. So I started planning how to help them escape. North Koreans have to travel incredible distances on the path to freedom. It's almost impossible to cross the border between North Korea and South Korea. So, ironically, I took a flight back to China and headed toward the North Korean border. Since my family couldn't speak Chinese, I had to guide them somehow through more than 2,000 miles in China, and then into Southeast Asia. The journey by bus took one week, and we were almost caught several times. One time, our bus was stopped and boarded by a Chinese police officer. He took everyone's I.D. cards, and he started asking them questions. Since my family couldn't understand Chinese, I thought my family was going to be arrested. As the Chinese officer approached my family, I impulsively stood up, and I told him that these are deaf and dumb people that I was chaperoning. He looked at me suspiciously, but luckily, he believed me. We made it all the way to the border of Laos. But I had to spend almost all my money to bribe the border guards in Laos. But even after we got past the border, my family was arrested and jailed for illegal border crossing. After I paid the fine and bribe, my family was released in one month. But soon after, my family was arrested and jailed again, in the capital of Laos. This was one of the lowest points in my life. I did everything to get my family to freedom, and we came so close, but my family was thrown in jail, just a short distance from the South Korean embassy. I went back and forth between the immigration office and the police station, desperately trying to get my family out. but I didn't have enough money to pay a bribe or fine anymore. I lost all hope. At that moment, I heard one man's voice ask me, ""What's wrong?"" I was so surprised that a total stranger cared enough to ask. In my broken English, and with a dictionary, I explained the situation, and without hesitating, the man went to the ATM, and he paid the rest of the money for my family, and two other North Koreans to get out of jail. I thanked him with all my heart, and I asked him, ""Why are you helping me?"" ""I'm not helping you,"" he said. ""I'm helping the North Korean people."" I realized that this was a symbolic moment in my life. The kind stranger symbolized new hope for me and the North Korean people, when we needed it most. And he showed me that the kindness of strangers and the support of the international community are truly the rays of hope we North Korean people need. Eventually, after our long journey, my family and I were reunited in South Korea. But getting to freedom is only half the battle. Many North Koreans are separated from their families, and when they arrive in a new country, they start with little or no money. So we can benefit from the international community for education, English language training, job training, and more. We can also act as a bridge between the people inside North Korea and the outside world. Because many of us stay in contact with family members still inside, and we send information and money that is helping to change North Korea from inside. I've been so lucky, received so much help and inspiration in my life, so I want to help give aspiring North Koreans a chance to prosper with international support. I'm confident that you will see more and more North Koreans succeeding all over the world, including the TED stage. Thank you. (Applause)"	我小的時候以為我住在全世界最棒的國家有首叫做「我們最幸福」 的歌陪伴著我長大當時 我好驕傲在學校 我們花很多時間學習有關金日成的歷史但從來沒有人告訴我們 外面的世界長甚麼樣子我們只知道 美國 南韓 和日本 都是敵人即便我對外面的世界充滿好奇心那時的我也沒想過 自己這輩子會離開北韓直到一切忽然急轉直下 我七歲那年 第一次看到公開處刑但我還是覺得在北韓的生活很正常我的家境並不窮困而我也不曾餓過肚子 1995 年的某一天 我媽媽帶了一封信回到家那封信是她同事的姊姊寄的信上寫著 「當你讀到這些字的時候 我們一家五口已經離開這個世界了因為我們已經足足餓了兩個禮拜我們五個人現在全倒在地上身體虛弱地 感受死亡的逼近」 我當下真的好震驚那是我第一次知道原來我們國家也有如此生靈塗炭的一面那之後沒多久的一天 當我經過經過火車站的時候我看到一個可怕的景象我這輩子永遠忘不掉一個女人奄奄一息地倒臥在路邊手裡卻仍緊抱著嬴弱的孩子那孩子瞪大了雙眼 無助地凝視著媽媽的臉龐但沒有一個人幫助他們 因為大家都忙著照顧自己和自己的家人 90年代中期 北韓發生大饑荒超過一百萬的北韓人民因為那場飢荒而死亡 而許多倖存者靠著吃草 抓蟲 嚼樹根 才活了下來沒電的情況也越來越嚴重所以當夜色降臨時 我的世界天昏地暗我唯一能看到的是 中國的燈火照在海波上反射過來的光中國距離我家僅有一河之隔我總是在想 為什麼他們有光 而我們卻沒有這張是北韓夜晚的衛星空照圖可以和鄰國們相比 這是鴨綠江 (Amrok River)她就恰巧壓在北韓和中國的邊境線上如你所見 這條河川的河道十分狹窄北韓人民可以從某些地方偷偷跨境然而 有很多人因此死了有時候 我會看到河面上漂著浮屍我不能透漏太多 我是怎麼怎麼離開北韓的我能說的就是 在那可恨的飢荒歲月中我被送到中國的遠房親戚那去了但那時我認為我和我的家人過不久一定能再見面我從來沒想過這一別 就是14 個年頭 在中國 沒有家人的陪伴下 很難不馬上長大我根本不知道 身為北韓難民人生會變成什麼樣子但很快地我就明白 這樣的生活不僅艱難困苦更是危機四伏因為中國將北韓難民視為非法移民所以我無時無刻都活在恐懼之中我擔心我的身分會被發現也擔心我會被遣返回北韓接受可怕的命運 有一天 我的噩夢成真了中國的警察抓了我把我帶回警察局去偵訊原來 有人向他們告發我是北韓人於是 他們考我中文問我一大堆問題我好害怕我的心臟簡直要跳出來了如果哪裡表現的不自然 我很可能會面臨牢獄之災甚至 被遣返當時 我覺得我人生簡直要畫上句點了但我努力控制自己的情緒回答那些問題他們問完我之後其中一個警察向另一個警察說這是誤報她又不是北韓人然後他們就這樣放我走了 這簡直是奇蹟 一些在中國的北韓人民 會向外國駐華使館尋求庇護但還是有很多北韓人被中國警察抓走然後被遣返這幾個女孩很幸運那時候 雖然他們被逮捕了中國後來還是因為面臨國際施加的壓力釋放了他們這幾個北韓人民就沒有那麼幸運了每年 中國政府在中國境內逮捕了無數的北韓人民並將他們遣返回北韓一個可能虐待他們 監禁他們甚至將他們公開處刑的地方 即便我非常幸運地逃離了那裏還是有許多北韓人民不是那麼的走運北韓的人民需要隱姓埋名的生活 這件事真的很可悲他們光是活下去就要花好大的力氣儘管如此 只要有機會學習新的語言 然後找到工作這世界馬上就會截然不同這也就是為什麼 在我過了10 年隱姓埋名的生活後我決定冒險前往南韓再一次展開我的新生活 在南韓安頓下來 比我想像中要難的多在南韓 英文非常重要所以我得開始學習第三種語言此外我了解到南韓和北韓間有著深不見底的鴻溝雖然我們都叫做韓國人但是骨子裡的差異真的很大畢竟我們分裂了 67 年啊我甚至有過認同危機我究竟是南韓人 還是北韓人呢我是從哪裡來的 我究竟是誰一瞬間 讓我驕傲的國家煙消雲散了 雖然不是那麼容易適應在南韓的生活但我有了計畫我開始準備起大學的入學考試 但正當我逐漸適應新的生活的時候我接到了一通令人錯愕的電話北韓政府截獲到一些我寄回家的錢他們懲罰我的家人即將把我的家人發配到窮鄉僻壤去他們一定得快點離開於是我開始幫他們計畫要如何出境 北韓距離自由不可思議地遙遠南北韓間的國界基本上是不可能穿越的所以我又搭飛機回到中國往中朝邊界前進因為我家人們不會說中文我得帶著他們我們就這樣一路逃了 2000 哩 經過了中國來到東南亞我們搭了一星期的巴士有好幾次都差一點就被抓到了有一天 我們的巴士突然熄火一名中國警察走了來他檢查每個人的身分證然後問大家問題因為我的家人不會說中文我以為他們就要被逮捕了於是 當中國警察走近我家人的時候我立刻站了以來 告訴他那些人又聾 又啞我是來陪他們來搭巴士的他用懷疑的眼神看了我一會兒他相信我了 真的好險 然後我們就這樣一路到了寮國的邊境但為了賄賂寮國邊境的警察我幾乎花光了我所有的錢然而進入寮國之後我的家人還是被抓進去關了理由是非法入境在我繳了罰款 然後再次賄賂後的一個月他們終於被放出來了不過沒多久 他們又被逮捕然後被關在寮國的首都 那絕對是我人生的最低潮的幾個日子之一我費盡了所有心思要讓我的家人自由當我們離自由如此接近的時候他們又被抓進去牢裡了那裡距離南韓的使館只有幾步之遙於是我開始不斷地在入境局和警察局間奔走拚了命地要把我的家人弄出來但我沒有足夠的錢再去付罰款或是或賄賂了我的希望徹底地粉碎 就在那刻 我聽到一個男人的聲音 他問我「妳怎麼了」 我好驚訝一個完全陌生的人 是關心地詢問我我用我的破英文 翻著字典向他解釋這一切那個男人二話不說地 走到提款機前領了錢幫我把積欠的罰金和賄賂用的錢全部還付清讓我的家人和另外兩個北韓人能夠出獄 我由衷地向他道謝 然後問他「你為什麼要幫助我」 他說 「我不是要幫你我幫的是北韓的人民」 我知道這是我的人生中十分具象徵性意義的一刻這個好心的陌生人對我而言 象徵了新的希望在北韓人民最需要希望的這一刻他讓我體會到來自陌生人的善良還有國際社會的支持這些生命之光 都是我們北韓人民需要的 經過了這些長途跋涉我和我的家人終於在南韓團聚在獲得自由後 我們還有一段路要走許多北韓人民的家庭還是被拆散的當他們到新的國家他們一盆如洗甚至身無分文我們可以得到國際社會的援助無論是教育 英語訓練職業訓練 還是其他的我們也能扮演起北韓境內人民和外頭世界的橋樑因為我們中的許多人和還留在北韓的家人都還保持著連絡我們把資訊和金錢送進去從內部著手幫忙改變北韓 我真的很幸運 得到了很多幫助這一路走來 也接受了許多人的鼓勵所以我想要燃起北韓人的熱情讓他的在國際的幫助下有機會能成功我有信心你們將會看到越來越多的北韓人能夠在世界各地有很好的表現包括在 TED 這個舞台上 謝謝大家 (掌聲)
