Talk	en	zh-tw
iain_hutchison_saving_faces	"Our face is hugely important because it's the external, visual part that everybody else sees. Let's not forget it's a functional entity. We have strong skull bones that protect the most important organ in our body: the brain. It's where our senses are located, our special senses — our vision, our speech, our hearing, our smell, our taste. And this bone is peppered, as you can see, with the light shining through the skull with cavities, the sinuses, which warm and moisten the air we breathe. But also imagine if they were filled with solid bone — our head would be dead weight, we wouldn't be able to hold it erect, we wouldn't be able to look at the world around us. This woman is slowly dying because the benign tumors in her facial bones have completely obliterated her mouth and her nose so she can't breathe and eat. Attached to the facial bones that define our face's structure are the muscles that deliver our facial expression, our universal language of expression, our social-signaling system. And overlying this is the skin drape, which is a hugely complex three-dimensional structure — taking right-angled bends here and there, having thin areas like the eyelids, thick areas like the cheek, different colors. And then we have the sensual factor of the face. Where do we like to kiss people? On the lips. Nibble the ears maybe. It's the face where we're attracted to with that. But let's not forget the hair. You're looking at the image on your left-hand side — that's my son with his eyebrows present. Look how odd he looks with the eyebrows missing. There's a definite difference. And imagine if he had hair sprouting from the middle of his nose, he'd look even odder still. Dysmorphophobia is an extreme version of the fact that we don't see ourselves as others see us. It's a shocking truth that we only see mirror images of ourselves, and we only see ourselves in freeze-frame photographic images that capture a mere fraction of the time that we live. Dysmorphophobia is a perversion of this where people who may be very good looking regard themselves as hideously ugly and are constantly seeking surgery to correct their facial appearance. They don't need this. They need psychiatric help. Max has kindly donated his photograph to me. He doesn't have dysmorphophobia, but I'm using his photograph to illustrate the fact that he looks exactly like a dysmorphophobic. In other words, he looks entirely normal. Age is another thing when our attitude toward our appearance changes. So children judge themselves, learn to judge themselves, by the behavior of adults around them. Here's a classic example: Rebecca has a benign blood vessel tumor that's growing out through her skull, has obliterated her nose, and she's having difficulty seeing. As you can see, it's blocking her vision. She's also in danger, when she damages this, of bleeding profusely. Our research has shown that the parents and close loved ones of these children adore them. They've grown used to their face; they think they're special. Actually, sometimes the parents argue about whether these children should have the lesion removed. And occasionally they suffer intense grief reactions because the child they've grown to love has changed so dramatically and they don't recognize them. But other adults say incredibly painful things. They say, ""How dare you take this child out of the house and terrify other people. Shouldn't you be doing something about this? Why haven't you had it removed?"" And other children in curiosity come up and poke the lesion, because — a natural curiosity. And that obviously alerts the child to their unusual nature. After surgery, everything normalizes. The adults behave more naturally, and the children play more readily with other children. As teenagers — just think back to your teenage years — we're going through a dramatic and often disproportionate change in our facial appearance. We're trying to struggle to find our identity. We crave the approval of our peers. So our facial appearance is vital to us as we're trying to project ourselves to the world. Just remember that single acne spot that crippled you for several days. How long did you spend looking in the mirror every day, practicing your sardonic look, practicing your serious look, trying to look like Sean Connery, as I did, trying to raise one eyebrow? It's a crippling time. I've chosen to show this profile view of Sue because what it shows is her lower jaw jutting forward and her lower lip jutting forward. I'd like you all in the audience now to push your lower jaw forward. Turn to the person next to you, push your lower jaws forward. Turn to the person next to you and look at them — they look miserable. That's exactly what people used to say to Sue. She wasn't miserable at all. But people used to say to her, ""Why are you so miserable?"" People were making misjudgments all the time on her mood. Teachers and peers were underestimating her; she was teased at school. So she chose to have facial surgery. After the facial surgery, she said, ""My face now reflects my personality. People know now that I'm enthusiastic, that I'm a happy person."" And that's the change that can be achieved for teenagers. Is this change, though, a real change, or is it a figment of the imagination of the patient themselves? Well we studied teenagers' attitudes to photographs of patients having this corrective facial surgery. And what we found was — we jumbled up the photographs so they couldn't recognize the before and after — what we found was that the patients were regarded as being more attractive after the surgery. Well that's not surprising, but we also asked them to judge them on honesty, intelligence, friendliness, violence. They were all perceived as being less than normal in all those characteristics — more violent, etc. — before the surgery. After the surgery, they were perceived as being more intelligent, more friendly, more honest, less violent — and yet we hadn't operated on their intellect or their character. When people get older, they don't necessarily choose to follow this kind of surgery. Their presence in the consultation suite is a result of the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. What happens to them is that they may have suffered cancer or trauma. So this is a photograph of Henry, two weeks after he had a malignant cancer removed from the left side of his face — his cheekbone, his upper jaw, his eye-socket. He looks pretty good at this stage. But over the course of the next 15 years he had 14 more operations, as the disease ravaged his face and destroyed my reconstruction regularly. I learned a huge amount from Henry. Henry taught me that you can carry on working. He worked as an advocate. He continued to play cricket. He enjoyed life to the full, and this was probably because he had a successful, fulfilling job and a caring family and was able to participate socially. He maintained a calm insouciance. I don't say he overcame this; he didn't overcome it. This was something more than that. He ignored it. He ignored the disfigurement that was happening in his life and carried on oblivious to it. And that's what these people can do. Henriapi illustrates this phenomenon as well. This is a man in his 20s whose first visit out of Nigeria was with this malignant cancer that he came to the United Kingdom to have operated on. It was my longest operation. It took 23 hours. I did it with my neurosurgeon. We removed all the bones at the right side of his face — his eye, his nose, the skull bones, the facial skin — and reconstructed him with tissue from the back. He continued to work as a psychiatric nurse. He got married. He had a son called Jeremiah. And again, he said, ""This painting of me with my son Jeremiah shows me as the successful man that I feel that I am."" His facial disfigurement did not affect him because he had the support of a family; he had a successful, fulfilling job. So we've seen that we can change people's faces. But when we change people's faces, are we changing their identity — for better or for worse? For instance, there are two different types of facial surgery. We can categorize it like that. We can say there are patients who choose to have facial surgery — like Sue. When they have facial surgery, they feel their lives have changed because other people perceive them as better people. They don't feel different. They feel that they've actually gained what they never had, that their face now reflects their personality. And actually that's probably the difference between cosmetic surgery and this kind of surgery. Because you might say, ""Well, this type of surgery might be regarded as cosmetic."" If you do cosmetic surgery, patients are often less happy. They're trying to achieve difference in their lives. Sue wasn't trying to achieve difference in her life. She was just trying to achieve the face that matched her personality. But then we have other people who don't choose to have facial surgery. They're people who have their face shot off. I'll move it off, and we'll have a blank slide for those who are squeamish amongst you. They have it forced upon them. And again, as I told you, if they have a caring family and good work life, then they can lead normal and fulfilled lives. Their identity doesn't change. Is this business about appearance and preoccupation with it a Western phenomenon? Muzetta's family give the lie to this. This is a little Bangladeshi girl from the east end of London who's got a huge malignant tumor on the right side of her face, which has already made her blind and which is rapidly growing and is going to kill her shortly. After she had surgery to remove the tumor, her parents dressed her in this beautiful green velvet dress, a pink ribbon in her hair, and they wanted the painting to be shown around the world, despite the fact that they were orthodox Muslims and the mother wore a full burqa. So it's not simply a Western phenomenon. We make judgments on people's faces all the time. It's been going on since we can think of Lombroso and the way he would define criminal faces. He said you could see criminal faces, judging them just on the photographs that were showed. Good-looking people are always judged as being more friendly. We look at O.J. — he's a good-looking guy. We'd like to spend time with him. He looks friendly. Now we know that he's a convicted wife-batterer, and actually he's not the good guy. And beauty doesn't equate to goodness, and certainly doesn't equate to contentment. So we've talked about the static face and judging the static face, but actually, we're more comfortable with judging the moving face. We think we can judge people on their expressions. U.K. jurors in the U.K. justice system like to see a live witness to see whether they can pick up the telltale signs of mendacity — the blink, the hesitation. And so they want to see live witnesses. Todorov tells us that, in a tenth of a second, we can make a judgment on somebody's face. Are we uncomfortable with this image? Yes, we are. Would we be happy if our doctor's face, our lawyer's face, our financial adviser's face was covered? We'd be pretty uncomfortable. But are we good at making the judgments on facial appearance and movement? The truth is that there's a five-minute rule, not the tenth-of-a-second rule like Todorov, but a five-minute rule. If you spend five minutes with somebody, you start looking beyond their facial appearance, and the people who you're initially attracted to may seem boring and you lose interest in them, and the people who you didn't immediately seek out, because you didn't find them particularly attractive, become attractive people because of their personality. So we've talked a lot about facial appearance. I now want to share a little bit of the surgery that we do — where we're at and where we're going. This is an image of Ann who's had her right jaw removed and the base of her skull removed. And you can see in the images afterward, we've managed to reconstruct her successfully. But that's not good enough. This is what Ann wants. She wants to be out kayaking, she wants to be out climbing mountains. And that's what she achieved, and that's what we have to get to. This is a horrific image, so I'm putting my hand up now. This is a photograph of Adi, a Nigerian bank manager who had his face shot off in an armed robbery. And he lost his lower jaw, his lip, his chin and his upper jaw and teeth. This is the bar that he set for us. ""I want to look like this. This is how I looked before."" So with modern technology, we used computers to make models. We made a model of the jaw without bone in it. We then bent a plate up to it. We put it in place so we knew it was an accurate position. We then put bone and tissue from the back. Here you can see the plate holding it, and you can see the implants being put in — so that in one operation we achieve this and this. So the patient's life is restored. That's the good news. However, his chin skin doesn't look the same as it did before. It's skin from his back. It's thicker, it's darker, it's coarser, it doesn't have the contours. And that's where we're failing, and that's where we need the face transplant. The face transplant has a role probably in burns patients to replace the skin. We can replace the underlying skeletal structure, but we're still not good at replacing the facial skin. So it's very valuable to have that tool in our armamentarium. But the patients are going to have to take drugs that suppress their immune system for the rest of their lives. What does that mean? They have an increased risk of infection, an increased risk of malignancy. This is not a life-saving transplant — like a heart, or liver, or lung transplant — it is a quality-of-life transplant, and as a result, are the patients going to say, if they get a malignant cancer 10 or 15 years on, ""I wish I'd had conventional reconstructive techniques rather than this because I'm now dying of a malignant cancer""? We don't know yet. We also don't know what they feel about recognition and identity. Bernard Devauchelle and Sylvie Testelin, who did the first operation, are studying that. Donors are going to be short on the ground, because how many people want to have their loved one's face removed at the point of death? So there are going to be problems with face transplantation. So the better news is the future's almost here — and the future is tissue engineering. Just imagine, I can make a biologically-degradable template. I can put it in place where it's meant to be. I can sprinkle a few cells, stem cells from the patient's own hip, a little bit of genetically engineered protein, and lo and behold, leave it for four months and the face is grown. This is a bit like a Julia Child recipe. But we've still got problems. We've got mouth cancer to solve. We're still not curing enough patients — it's the most disfiguring cancer. We're still not reconstructing them well enough. In the U.K. we have an epidemic of facial injuries among young people. We still can't get rid of scars. We need to do research. And the best news of all is that surgeons know that we need to do research. And we've set up charities that will help us fund the clinical research to determine the best treatment practice now and better treatment into the future, so we don't just sit on our laurels and say, ""Okay, we're doing okay. Let's leave it as it is."" Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)"	我們的臉部非常重要因為我們的臉部裸露在外大家都會看到但我們不要忘記，臉部也是有實際功用的。我們有強壯的頭顱骨，用來保護我們身上最重要的器官：腦。這是我們感官的所在，我們特別的感官 ——視覺、說話能力、聽覺、嗅覺、味覺。這塊骨頭上分散着一些別的東西，你可以透過光看到，上面有一些孔洞，這是鼻竇可以將我們吸入的空氣加溫加溼。但想想看，如果這是塊實心的骨頭，我們的頭會非常重，重到我們無法將之豎直。我們也就沒有辦法看我們周遭的世界。這位女性正在步入死亡，因為他她臉部骨頭上的良性腫瘤已經封住了她的口鼻，導致她無法呼吸和進食。 臉骨上連著的肌肉構成了臉部的結構這些肌肉也讓我們可以有臉部表情，一個人類中共通的語言一個人與人交往的信號系統在這外面是皮質層，是一個很複雜、立體的結構：在恰當的地方凹折有像眼皮這樣很薄的部份、也有像臉頰般厚、不同顏色的部份。然後臉部還有負責感官的部份。我們最喜歡親吻的哪裡？嘴唇，或是輕咬耳朵。我們被臉部所吸引，想要親吻 但我們也別忘記了毛髮你們現在看看左邊的這張照片。那是我兒子有眉毛的樣子看看他沒有眉毛時有多奇怪。這裡有一個很明顯的差別。想像一下他鼻子中間冒出毛髮他鐵定看起來會更怪。 醜狀恐懼症是一種極端的例子，是一種我們看到的自己與他人看到的我們很不相同的症狀。很驚人的事實是我們只能從鏡子中看到我們自己，或是從不動的照片等圖像中看到自己，但這些只是我們生命中的一小部份。醜狀恐懼症是這個現象的一種變態的症狀，表現是長得還不錯的人認為自己極度醜陋且不斷地尋求整形手術來改正他們的臉部外貌。他們不需要整形手術，他們需要的是心理幫助Max很好心的捐了這張照片給我。他沒有醜狀恐懼症，但我用他的照片來顯示他長得就跟一個醜狀恐懼症病患一樣。換句話說，他長得非常正常。 年齡是另一個改變我們對自己的外表的態度的因素。孩童們經由周圍的大人們的行為來評斷、學著評斷他們自己。這是個經典的例子：Rebecca有一個良性的血管腫瘤從她的頭顱內長出來，已經埋沒了她的鼻子，並且影響到了她的視力你們可以看到，腫瘤已經擋到她的視線了。如果她弄傷這個腫瘤，她也有大量失血的危險。我們的研究顯示這樣孩子的父母親及關愛他們的人非常喜歡他們。他們已經習慣了他們的臉蛋，他們覺得這很特別。事實上，有時候他們的父母親會為了是否要將這些缺陷移除而起爭執。偶而他們會感到強烈的悲傷因為他們已經漸漸愛上的孩子有了非常大的轉變，使他們無法認出孩子。但有些其他成年人會說一些非常傷人的話。他們說：「你怎麼可以帶這樣的孩子出去會嚇到其他人！你不是應該做些甚麼嗎？你不是該把那個東西拿掉嗎？」然後其他小孩好奇地圍過來戳病變的地方，純粹是因為好奇。這樣很顯然地會讓這孩子警覺他自己與別人不同的特質。手術過後，一切都回歸正常。成年人表現得更正常，孩子更容易和其他孩子玩耍。 在青少年時期，就想想你們的青少年時期，那時我們都會經歷一些巨大的變化，尤其是我們的臉部會有一些相比而言更加顯著的變化那時的我們為了找到自己的定位而努力我們渴望得到同齡人的肯定。當我們試圖向世界展示自己的時候我們的臉部的樣子對我們就至關重要想想那個臉上冒出來的一個青春痘就讓你不開心了好幾天。你一天花多少時間站在鏡子前面練習你的嘲諷表情，練習你的嚴肅表情或像我一樣試著看起來像sean connery（蘇格蘭演員）那樣只揚起一邊的眉毛。那是一段令人不正常的時間 我選了這張Sue的側面照因為可以看出她的下巴突出且她的下唇也往前突出。請在座各位把你們的下巴往前推，然後看看你旁邊的人，把下巴凸出，轉向你旁邊的人，看看他們—他們看起來很慘兮兮的那就是人們一直跟Sue說的。但她一點都不感到悲慘但人們一直跟她說：「為什麼你那麼慘兮兮的？」人們總是誤解她的心情。老師和同儕總是低估她，她在學校被人嘲笑。所以她選擇了臉部整形。整形過後，她說：「我的臉蛋現在可以反映出我的個性了。人們知道我很熱心，我是個快樂的人。」而且這是個在青少年身上可以做到的改變。 這樣的改變是一個真的改變嗎？還是只是病患自己腦海中的想像？我們研究了青少年對有過這樣的改正性臉部手術照片的態度。下面就是我們的研究結果我們把照片弄亂讓他們認不出哪些是術前照片哪些是術後照片。我們發現，術後的病患看起來更具吸引力。當然這不令人驚訝，但我們也要被試青少年們判斷這些照片人物的誠實度、智商、友善度、暴力程度。在術前他們給人的感覺是在這些特質上不正常的手術前的形象被認為更暴力術後他們給人的感覺是更聰明、更友善、更誠實、較不暴力。但我們並沒有改變他們的智商或者個性 隨著年紀增長，他們不一定會選擇這樣的手術。他們在諮商室的原因是一連串厄運的結果。他們是經歷了癌症或創傷的病患。這是一張亨利的照片。這是他移除左臉上的惡性腫瘤後兩個禮拜的照片，包括左臉臉頰、上顎、眼圈。他在這個階段看起來很不錯。但在接下來的十五年內他又接受了十四次整形手術，因為疾病摧殘著他的臉且定期地破壞我的整形結果。我從亨利身上學到很多。亨利讓我瞭解一個這樣的病患可以繼續工作。他的工作是辯護者。他繼續打板球。他很享受著他的生活。且這很有可能是因為他有一個成功的、有滿足感的工作和一個關懷他的家人並且他仍然可以進行正常的社交活動。他一種冷靜而漫不經心的生活態度我不是說他克服了自己的問題，他並沒有。他做到了比克服更難的：他忽視了它。他忽視他生命中這些扭曲的部份然後繼續過他的生活，無視這些扭曲。這就是這些人可以做的。 Henriapi也同樣做到了這點。這是一個二十多歲的男人。他第一次離開尼日利亞就是為了來英國來移除臉上的這個惡性腫瘤。這是我做過最長的手術。手術花了23小時。我和一個神經外科醫生一起完成的。我們把他右半邊的臉的骨頭全部拿出來，包括他的眼睛、他的鼻子、他的頭顱骨、他的臉部皮膚，然後利用他背部的組織來復建。他繼續當一個心理護士。他後來結婚且生了一個名為Jeremiah的兒子。再次的他說：「這幅我和我兒子Jeremiah的圖畫顯示出了我是一個成功男人，就像我自己認為的這樣。」他臉部的變形並沒有影響他，因為他有家人的支持和成功、有滿足感的工作。 所以我們已經看到我們可以改變人們的臉部。但當我們改變人們的臉的時候，我們有改變他們的對自己定位嗎？不管是變好還是變壞。舉例來說，主要有兩種臉部手術。我們可以將它分類。我們可以說有些病患選擇要做臉部手術—像是Sue。當他們做了臉部手術後他們感覺他們的人生改變了。因為其他人對他們的看法變了認為他們是更好的人他們不會感覺不同。他們感覺他們真的得到了他們之前沒有的東西，那就是他們的臉終於可以反映出他們的個性。事實上這就是是美容手術和這樣的手術的區別因為你可能會說：「嗯，這樣的手術可以被看成是美容整形手術。」如果你做整形手術，病患一般來說比較不開心。他們想要改變人生。Sue不是要改變人生，她只是想要她的臉和她的個性相符。 但也有一些其他人不會選擇臉部手術。他們是那些臉被槍打毀的人讓我為在座那些較膽小的人把這圖片拿掉，換成一張空白的投影片他們的臉部是被強加在他們身上的。再次的，讓我提醒你們，如果他們有個關懷他們的家庭和好工作，那們他們可以有一個正常且滿足的生活。他們的身分並沒有被感變。 這樣在乎外表的情況只存在於西方文化嗎？Muzetta的家庭告訴我們不是的。這是倫敦東部的一個孟加拉女孩，她右臉上有一個很大的惡性腫瘤。這已經讓她變瞎了並且如果這個腫瘤繼續成長的話，很快就會取了她的生命。腫瘤移除手術後，她父母親為她穿上漂亮的綠絲絨洋裝在她頭髮上系上一個粉紅色的絲帶他們希望這幅畫可以在全世界展示，雖然他們是保守伊斯蘭教徒且他母親是穿全身的罩袍的。所以這不是只是西方的問題。 我們幾乎隨時都在對別人的臉作出評判這可以追朔到朗柏朔的犯罪學說時代，包括他如何定義“罪犯臉“他說你可以可以看出哪些是”罪犯臉“僅從照片就可以長得好看的人會被認為是比較有親和力的。看看O.J.他是個長得還不錯的人。我們會想要跟他在一起。他看起來很好相處。但現在我們知道他是個家庭暴力者，並且事實上他不是個好人。而且美貌跟好心是不能劃上等號的，而且也絕對不能跟滿足感劃上等號。 所以我們已經談了靜態的臉，也評斷靜態的臉。但事實上，我們更會評斷動態的臉。我們認為我們可以透過人們的表情評斷他們。英國法律體制下的陪審團喜歡在在現場觀察證人看是否能看出一些謊言的蛛絲馬跡：眨眼、猶豫。所以他們喜歡到現場的證人Todorov 告訴我們，在十分之一秒中，我們可以對一個人的臉做出一個評判我們會覺得這張圖片讓人不舒服嗎？是的。如果我們的醫生、我們的律師、我們的理財顧問把臉遮起來，我們會開心嗎？我們會很不舒服。但我們真的能夠由臉部外貌和動作做出正確的評斷嗎？事實上有個五分鐘規則，不是像Todorov說的十分之一秒，而是五分鐘。如果你跟一個人在一起超過五分鐘，你就會開始注意臉部外貌以外的情況一些一開始吸引你的人可能會讓你覺得無聊然後你對他們就沒有興趣了然後那些你因為他們沒有長得特別好看而馬上註意到的人可能會用他們的個性吸引上你 所以我們已經談了很多關於臉部外貌的東西。我現在想要分享一些關於我們做的手術：現狀和未來的走向這是一張Ann的圖片。她的右顎和頭顱骨基底被移除了。在後面的圖像中你可以看到我們成功地重建了她的臉但那還不夠好。那不是Ann要的。她想要能夠出去划船，她要能夠出去爬山。且那是她做到的，也是我們必須讓她能夠做到的。 這是個恐怖的圖像，所以我也把我的手舉起來了。這是一張Adi的照片。他是一個尼日利亞的銀行主管他的臉在一個武裝搶劫中被打毀他失去了下顎、嘴唇、下巴、上顎和牙齒這是他給我們的標準。「我想要看起來像這樣。這是我之前的長相。」以現在的科技，我們利用電腦來作模型。我們做了一個沒有骨頭的顎模型。然後我們做了一個金屬板。我們把它放在該在的位置，讓我們知道正確的位置。然後我們從背部提取骨頭和組織。這裡我們可以看到金屬板固定，你也可以看到移植組織置入—所以一個手術後我們做到這樣。這樣病患的生活就重歸正軌了那是好消息。但是他的下巴皮膚跟以前看起來不大一樣。因為是背部的皮膚。是更厚、更深、跟粗糙且沒有輪廓。這就是我們做不到的。也是為什麼我們需要臉部移殖。 臉部移殖在被火燒傷的病患的植皮過程中有很重要的角色。我們可以重建底層的骨骼結構，但我們仍然不大會重建臉部皮膚。所以如果可以在我們的醫療設備中有這樣一個工具，那會是很有價值的但這些病患會接下來的一輩子都需要吃一些藥來壓制他們的免疫系統。這是什麼意思？他們有更高的風險會被感染、也更有可能會有惡性腫瘤。這不是保住生命的移殖，不是像移殖心臟或是肝臟或是肺臟，而是一個改善生命質量的移殖。最後，如果病患在十或十五年後得了惡性腫瘤，他會不會說：「我希望我做了常規的重建手術而不是這個手術，因為我現在垂死於惡性腫瘤？」我們還不知道。我們也不知道他們對於識別和身分的感受。Bernard Devauchelle和Sylvie Testelin，第一次做了這樣的手術他們正在研究這個捐贈者也非常少，因為有多少人願意他們深愛的人在死亡的時候將臉部移去。所以在臉部移殖上會有一些問題的。 所以更好的消息是未來已經快到了——這個未來就是生物組織建造想想看，我可以做一個可以生物化降解的模板。我可以將這個模板放在該放的地方。我可以撒上一些細胞，一些從病患自己胯上取得的幹細胞，加上一些基因工程製造出的蛋白質，然後靜候四個月，臉部就可以長出來。這有點像是童話故事中的食譜。 但我們仍然有一些問題。我們仍然有口腔癌要解決。我們仍然沒有辦法救足夠病患—但它是最容易毀容的癌症。我們仍然沒有辦法足夠好的重建這部分在英國，年輕的族群臉部受傷有擴大的趨勢。我們仍然沒有辦法不留下疤痕。我們仍然需要作研究。但最好的消息是外科醫生們知道我們需要進一步研究。所以我們已經建立起慈善基金幫助我們作臨床研究來決定目前最好的手術方式以及未來更好的處理方法。所以我們不是坐在那說：「好，我們已經做地夠好了。就這樣吧。」 非常謝謝你們。 （掌聲）
