Talk	en	zh-tw
ian_goldin_navigating_our_global_future	"The future, as we know it, is very unpredictable. The best minds in the best institutions generally get it wrong. This is in technology. This is in the area of politics, where pundits, the CIA, MI6 always get it wrong. And it's clearly in the area of finance. With institutions established to think about the future, the IMF, the BIS, the Financial Stability Forum, couldn't see what was coming. Over 20,000 economists whose job it is, competitive entry to get there, couldn't see what was happening. Globalization is getting more complex. And this change is getting more rapid. The future will be more unpredictable. Urbanization, integration, coming together, leads to a new renaissance. It did this a thousand years ago. The last 40 years have been extraordinary times. Life expectancy has gone up by about 25 years. It took from the Stone Age to achieve that. Income has gone up for a majority of the world's population, despite the population going up by about two billion people over this period. And illiteracy has gone down, from a half to about a quarter of the people on Earth. A huge opportunity, unleashing of new potential for innovation, for development. But there is an underbelly. There are two Achilles' heels of globalization. There is the Achilles' heel of growing inequality — those that are left out, those that feel angry, those that are not participating. Globalization has not been inclusive. The second Achilles' heel is complexity — a growing fragility, a growing brittleness. What happens in one place very quickly affects everything else. This is a systemic risk, systemic shock. We've seen it in the financial crisis. We've seen it in the pandemic flu. It will become virulent and it's something we have to build resilience against. A lot of this is driven by what's happening in technology. There have been huge leaps. There will be a million-fold improvement in what you can get for the same price in computing by 2030. That's what the experience of the last 20 years has been. It will continue. Our computers, our systems will be as primitive as the Apollo's are for today. Our mobile phones are more powerful than the total Apollo space engine. Our mobile phones are more powerful than some of the strongest computers of 20 years ago. So what will this do? It will create huge opportunities in technology. Miniaturization as well. There will be invisible capacity. Invisible capacity in our bodies, in our brains, and in the air. This is a dust mite on a nanoreplica. This sort of ability to do everything in new ways unleashes potential, not least in the area of medicine. This is a stem cell that we've developed here in Oxford, from an embryonic stem cell. We can develop any part of the body. Increasingly, over time, this will be possible from our own skin — able to replicate parts of the body. Fantastic potential for regenerative medicine. I don't think there will be a Special Olympics long after 2030, because of this capacity to regenerate parts of the body. But the question is, ""Who will have it?"" The other major development is going to be in the area of what can happen in genetics. The capacity to create, as this mouse has been genetically modified, something which goes three times faster, lasts for three times longer, we could produce, as this mouse can, to the age of our equivalent of 80 years, using about the same amount of food. But will this only be available for the super rich, for those that can afford it? Are we headed for a new eugenics? Will only those that are able to afford it be able to be this super race of the future? (Laughter) So the big question for us is, ""How do we manage this technological change?"" How do we ensure that it creates a more inclusive technology, a technology which means that not only as we grow older, that we can also grow wiser, and that we're able to support the populations of the future? One of the most dramatic manifestations of these improvements will be moving from population pyramids to what we might term population coffins. There is unlikely to be a pension or a retirement age in 2030. These will be redundant concepts. And this isn't only something of the West. The most dramatic changes will be the skyscraper type of new pyramids that will take place in China and in many other countries. So forget about retirements if you're young. Forget about pensions. Think about life and where it's going to be going. Of course, migration will become even more important. The war on talent, the need to attract people at all skill ranges, to push us around in our wheelchairs, but also to drive our economies. Our innovation will be vital. The employment in the rich countries will go down from about 800 to about 700 million of these people. This would imply a massive leap in migration. So the concerns, the xenophobic concerns of today, of migration, will be turned on their head, as we search for people to help us sort out our pensions and our economies in the future. And then, the systemic risks. We understand that these will become much more virulent, that what we see today is this interweaving of societies, of systems, fastened by technologies and hastened by just-in-time management systems. Small levels of stock push resilience into other people's responsibility. The collapse in biodiversity, climate change, pandemics, financial crises: these will be the currency that we will think about. And so a new awareness will have to arise, of how we deal with these, how we mobilize ourselves, in a new way, and come together as a community to manage systemic risk. It's going to require innovation. It's going to require an understanding that the glory of globalization could also be its downfall. This could be our best century ever because of the achievements, or it could be our worst. And of course we need to worry about the individuals, particularly the individuals that feel that they've been left out in one way or another. An individual, for the first time in the history of humanity, will have the capacity, by 2030, to destroy the planet, to wreck everything, through the creation, for example, of a biopathogen. How do we begin to weave these tapestries together? How do we think about complex systems in new ways? That will be the challenge of the scholars, and of all of us engaged in thinking about the future. The rest of our lives will be in the future. We need to prepare for it now. We need to understand that the governance structure in the world is fossilized. It cannot begin to cope with the challenges that this will bring. We have to develop a new way of managing the planet, collectively, through collective wisdom. We know, and I know from my own experience, that amazing things can happen, when individuals and societies come together to change their future. I left South Africa, and 15 years later, after thinking I would never go back, I had the privilege and the honor to work in the government of Nelson Mandela. This was a miracle. We can create miracles, collectively, in our lifetime. It is vital that we do so. It is vital that the ideas that are nurtured in TED, that the ideas that we think about look forward, and make sure that this will be the most glorious century, and not one of eco-disaster and eco-collapse. Thank you. (Applause)"	眾所皆知 未來難以預測頂尖研究機構中的佼佼者還常會犯錯技術領域有過前例 (1958年IBM總裁：電腦根本沒有市場) 政治領域亦然連智者、中情局、軍情六處 都會出錯 (07年政論名嘴：歐巴馬總統夢無望)財經領域更是前科累累 (07年IMF: 整體風險前景似乎比過去半年低)有些機構的工作是預測未來但IMF,BIS或金融穩定論壇 都做不到超過兩萬名經濟學家一起動腦應該想得出辦法脫離困境卻看不清前路 全球化愈來愈複雜越來越迅速未來會變得更難以預料都市化 區域整合 (全球化)將一起型塑新的文藝復興時代就像一千多年前發生過的一樣過去40年意義非凡平均壽命提升了大約25年這是從石器時代累積至今的成果收入提升 大部分人口生活改善但人口數同時也增加了20億文盲人數 從全人口的1/2下降至1/4這是難得的機會 充滿無限可能創新與發展皆大有可為 但全球化也有罩門兩個致命的弱點一個是日益嚴重的不平等 (國家間的不平等)那些沒有享受到全球化益處的人憤怒漸增 因為全球化的果實不是人人有份第二個是複雜性全球體制越來越脆弱易碎遷一髮而動全局這是系統性的風險金融風暴席捲、流感蔓延 都是明證唯有堅強的韌性才能讓我們生存 這樣的發展大部分起因於科技科技日新月異 以後只會發展更快付出同樣的成本 資訊處裡的速度在2030年會快100萬倍這是過去20年的經驗這種趨勢還會持續下去未來 今天的電腦系統 會顯得粗糙會像今天看阿波羅太空梭一樣現在的手機已經超越太空梭引擎還不只如此 現在的手機比20年前某些最強的電腦還強大這代表什麼？無數機會有待科技業者開發微型化也是一樣看不見的東西現在也充滿機會遍佈在人體、人腦和空氣中這隻塵蟎 是奈米科技的複製品 老調新唱的能力 可以激發潛能在醫學或任何其他領域都是如此這個幹細胞 是在牛津發展而成的利用胚胎幹細胞可以培育出身體的任何部位以後 我們可以用自己的皮膚來複製身體其他的部位這是再生醫學亟待開發的領域身障奧運會2030年之後可能停辦因為任何生理上的損傷都能修復但問題是「誰能享有這一切？」 另一個重要發展是基因領域的發展我們有能力把老鼠的基因改造 (比火車頭還厲害？超級鼠 vs 一般鼠)讓牠跑得比一般老鼠快三倍 (後面：一般鼠 前面：超級鼠) (時速：20公尺/分鐘)壽命比一般老鼠長三倍活到相當於人類80歲的年齡卻只要用同樣份量的食物餵養 (一般鼠出局)(總距離：0.2公里) 但是 能享受這些益處的只有富人嗎？ 這是新的優生學嗎？只有那些負擔得起的人能在未來成為超級種族嗎？(一小時後 超級鼠耐力依舊...)(笑聲) 所以當前最大的問題是「我們如何因應科技上的改變？」我們如何確保 在未來能有人人可利用的科技這樣的科技不只在我們年歲漸長時 (人口老化是歐洲的最大問題)讓我們更有智慧 也讓我們有能力扶養未來的人口眾多進步中 最顯著的例子就是人口金字塔 (1950到2030年義大利人口結構圖)可能會變成所謂的人口棺材退休金或是退休年齡在2030年都可能不復存在這些觀念 東西方都覺得不合時宜 最戲劇的改變是 (1970至2030年 中國人口結構圖)摩天大樓式的新金字塔在中國跟其他許多國家出現因此別期待退休了 年輕人別指望退休金 多想想人生的方向當然 移民會變得更重要人才爭奪戰中 網羅的對象各種專長的人才都包括需要推輪椅的看護也需要經濟導航者。創意將是關鍵 就業狀況 在富裕國家 (就業人口預測)會從8億人降到7億人這表示移民人數會大增所以排外人士對移民的擔憂 必須改變因為我們需要人力 來解決退休金以及未來經濟的問題再來 是系統性風險我們了解 這些風險將會日益嚴重今天看到的是息息相關的社會體系透過科技相連 經由管理加強整合自掃門前雪 只會讓大局無人主持 生物多樣性遭破壞氣候變遷、流行疾病與金融風暴都是大局中不容小覷的影響因素因此我們要有全新的體悟學習如何處理問題 如何動員人力用新方法 而且要通力合作來管理系統性風險這需要創意需要理解 全球化的成果也可能使它垮臺21世紀可以是盛世 因為成就輝煌也可能是最糟糕的世紀當然 我們不能忽略個人尤其是那些覺得被遺棄的人 在人類歷史上 (生物性危險物品)2030年 個人將首度有能力毀滅地球 破壞一切比如說 利用新創造的生物病原我們要如何把這些片段連接起來？如何用新思維檢視複雜的系统？這個挑戰 不只學者們首當其衝也是所有關心未來的人要思考的面對未來 我們要及早準備世界的治理架構已經陳腐過時 (誰來治理？)無法應付全球化帶來的挑戰我們必須找出新方法來管理地球同心協力 集思廣益 你我都明白 經驗告訴我們奇蹟會發生如果個人和社會都決心改變他們的未來我離開南非15年後 (認為非洲民族議會將接管南非的是癡人說夢)改變原本絕不再回去的決定 (1987年柴契爾夫人發言)很榮幸地成為曼德拉政府的一員這就是奇蹟 我們可以創造奇蹟同心協力 在有生之年親見成果這樣的努力是改變未來的關鍵 (2030年必知的六大議題)眾多講者在TED分享的想法我們自己腦袋裡的想法都是期盼 盼望21世紀是光榮盛世而不是生靈塗炭的黑暗世紀謝謝各位 (掌聲)
