Talk	en	zh-tw
isabel_allende_tells_tales_of_passion	"Thank you so much. It's really scary to be here among the smartest of the smart. I'm here to tell you a few tales of passion. There's a Jewish saying that I love. What is truer than truth? Answer: The story. I'm a storyteller. I want to convey something that is truer than truth about our common humanity. All stories interest me, and some haunt me until I end up writing them. Certain themes keep coming up: justice, loyalty, violence, death, political and social issues, freedom. I'm aware of the mystery around us, so I write about coincidences, premonitions, emotions, dreams, the power of nature, magic. In the last 20 years I have published a few books, but I have lived in anonymity until February of 2006, when I carried the Olympic flag in the Winter Olympics in Italy. That made me a celebrity. Now people recognize me in Macy's, and my grandchildren think that I'm cool. (Laughter) Allow me to tell you about my four minutes of fame. One of the organizers of the Olympic ceremony, of the opening ceremony, called me and said that I had been selected to be one of the flag-bearers. I replied that surely this was a case of mistaken identity because I'm as far as you can get from being an athlete. Actually, I wasn't even sure that I could go around the stadium without a walker. (Laughter) I was told that this was no laughing matter. This would be the first time that only women would carry the Olympic flag. Five women, representing five continents, and three Olympic gold medal winners. My first question was, naturally, what was I going to wear? (Laughter) A uniform, she said, and asked for my measurements. My measurements. I had a vision of myself in a fluffy anorak, looking like the Michelin Man. (Laughter) By the middle of February, I found myself in Turin, where enthusiastic crowds cheered when any of the 80 Olympic teams was in the street. Those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games. They all deserved to win, but there's the element of luck. A speck of snow, an inch of ice, the force of the wind, can determine the result of a race or a game. However, what matters most — more than training or luck — is the heart. Only a fearless and determined heart will get the gold medal. It is all about passion. The streets of Turin were covered with red posters announcing the slogan of the Olympics. Passion lives here. Isn't it always true? Heart is what drives us and determines our fate. That is what I need for my characters in my books: a passionate heart. I need mavericks, dissidents, adventurers, outsiders and rebels, who ask questions, bend the rules and take risks. People like all of you in this room. Nice people with common sense do not make interesting characters. (Laughter) They only make good former spouses. (Laughter) (Applause) In the green room of the stadium, I met the other flag bearers: three athletes, and the actresses Susan Sarandon and Sophia Loren. Also, two women with passionate hearts: Wangari Maathai, the Nobel prizewinner from Kenya who has planted 30 million trees. And by doing so, she has changed the soil, the weather, in some places in Africa, and of course the economic conditions in many villages. And Somaly Mam, a Cambodian activist who fights passionately against child prostitution. When she was 14 years old, her grandfather sold her to a brothel. She told us of little girls raped by men who believe that having sex with a very young virgin will cure them from AIDS. And of brothels where children are forced to receive five, 15 clients per day, and if they rebel, they are tortured with electricity. In the green room I received my uniform. It was not the kind of outfit that I normally wear, but it was far from the Michelin Man suit that I had anticipated. Not bad, really. I looked like a refrigerator. (Laughter) But so did most of the flag-bearers, except Sophia Loren, the universal symbol of beauty and passion. Sophia is over 70 and she looks great. She's sexy, slim and tall, with a deep tan. Now, how can you have a deep tan and have no wrinkles? I don't know. When asked in a TV interview, ""How could she look so good?"" She replied, ""Posture. My back is always straight, and I don't make old people's noises."" (Laughter) So, there you have some free advice from one of the most beautiful women on earth. No grunting, no coughing, no wheezing, no talking to yourselves, no farting. (Laughter) Well, she didn't say that exactly. (Laughter) At some point around midnight, we were summoned to the wings of the stadium, and the loudspeakers announced the Olympic flag, and the music started — by the way, the same music that starts here, the Aida March. Sophia Loren was right in front of me — she's a foot taller than I am, not counting the poofy hair. (Laughter) She walked elegantly, like a giraffe on the African savannah, holding the flag on her shoulder. I jogged behind (Laughter) — on my tiptoes — holding the flag on my extended arm, so that my head was actually under the damn flag. (Laughter) All the cameras were, of course, on Sophia. That was fortunate for me, because in most press photos I appear too, although often between Sophia's legs. (Laughter) A place where most men would love to be. (Laughter) (Applause) The best four minutes of my entire life were those in the Olympic stadium. My husband is offended when I say this — although I have explained to him that what we do in private usually takes less than four minutes — (Laughter) — so he shouldn't take it personally. I have all the press clippings of those four magnificent minutes, because I don't want to forget them when old age destroys my brain cells. I want to carry in my heart forever the key word of the Olympics — passion. So here's a tale of passion. The year is 1998, the place is a prison camp for Tutsi refugees in Congo. By the way, 80 percent of all refugees and displaced people in the world are women and girls. We can call this place in Congo a death camp, because those who are not killed will die of disease or starvation. The protagonists of this story are a young woman, Rose Mapendo, and her children. She's pregnant and a widow. Soldiers have forced her to watch as her husband was tortured and killed. Somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive, and a few months later, she gives birth to premature twins. Two tiny little boys. She cuts the umbilical cord with a stick, and ties it with her own hair. She names the twins after the camp's commanders to gain their favor, and feeds them with black tea because her milk cannot sustain them. When the soldiers burst in her cell to rape her oldest daughter, she grabs hold of her and refuses to let go, even when they hold a gun to her head. Somehow, the family survives for 16 months, and then, by extraordinary luck, and the passionate heart of a young American man, Sasha Chanoff, who manages to put her in a U.S. rescue plane, Rose Mapendo and her nine children end up in Phoenix, Arizona, where they're now living and thriving. Mapendo, in Swahili, means great love. The protagonists of my books are strong and passionate women like Rose Mapendo. I don't make them up. There's no need for that. I look around and I see them everywhere. I have worked with women and for women all my life. I know them well. I was born in ancient times, at the end of the world, in a patriarchal Catholic and conservative family. No wonder that by age five I was a raging feminist — although the term had not reached Chile yet, so nobody knew what the heck was wrong with me. (Laughter) I would soon find out that there was a high price to pay for my freedom, and for questioning the patriarchy. But I was happy to pay it, because for every blow that I received, I was able to deliver two. (Laughter) Once, when my daughter Paula was in her twenties, she said to me that feminism was dated, that I should move on. We had a memorable fight. Feminism is dated? Yes, for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today, but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage, prostitution, forced labor — they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed. They have no control over their bodies or their lives. They have no education and no freedom. They are raped, beaten up and sometimes killed with impunity. For most Western young women of today, being called a feminist is an insult. Feminism has never been sexy, but let me assure you that it never stopped me from flirting, and I have seldom suffered from lack of men. (Laughter) Feminism is not dead, by no means. It has evolved. If you don't like the term, change it, for Goddess' sake. Call it Aphrodite, or Venus, or bimbo, or whatever you want; the name doesn't matter, as long as we understand what it is about, and we support it. So here's another tale of passion, and this is a sad one. The place is a small women's clinic in a village in Bangladesh. The year is 2005. Jenny is a young American dental hygienist who has gone to the clinic as a volunteer during her three-week vacation. She's prepared to clean teeth, but when she gets there, she finds out that there are no doctors, no dentists, and the clinic is just a hut full of flies. Outside, there is a line of women who have waited several hours to be treated. The first patient is in excruciating pain because she has several rotten molars. Jenny realizes that the only solution is to pull out the bad teeth. She's not licensed for that; she has never done it. She risks a lot and she's terrified. She doesn't even have the proper instruments, but fortunately she has brought some Novocaine. Jenny has a brave and passionate heart. She murmurs a prayer and she goes ahead with the operation. At the end, the relieved patient kisses her hands. That day the hygienist pulls out many more teeth. The next morning, when she comes again to the so-called clinic, her first patient is waiting for her with her husband. The woman's face looks like a watermelon. It is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes. The husband, furious, threatens to kill the American. Jenny is horrified at what she has done, but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation. The day before, her husband beat her up because she was not home in time to prepare dinner for him. Millions of women live like this today. They are the poorest of the poor. Although women do two-thirds of the world's labor, they own less than one percent of the world's assets. They are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all, and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence, and they are constantly threatened by exploitation, violence and abuse. It is a fact that giving women education, work, the ability to control their own income, inherit and own property, benefits the society. If a woman is empowered, her children and her family will be better off. If families prosper, the village prospers, and eventually so does the whole country. Wangari Maathai goes to a village in Kenya. She talks with the women and explains that the land is barren because they have cut and sold the trees. She gets the women to plant new trees and water them, drop by drop. In a matter of five or six years, they have a forest, the soil is enriched, and the village is saved. The poorest and most backward societies are always those that put women down. Yet this obvious truth is ignored by governments and also by philanthropy. For every dollar given to a women's program, 20 dollars are given to men's programs. Women are 51 percent of humankind. Empowering them will change everything — more than technology and design and entertainment. I can promise you that women working together — linked, informed and educated — can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet. In any war today, most of the casualties are civilians, mainly women and children. They are collateral damage. Men run the world, and look at the mess we have. What kind of world do we want? This is a fundamental question that most of us are asking. Does it make sense to participate in the existing world order? We want a world where life is preserved and the quality of life is enriched for everybody, not only for the privileged. In January I saw an exhibit of Fernando Botero's paintings at the UC Berkeley library. No museum or gallery in the United States, except for the New York gallery that carries Botero's work, has dared to show the paintings because the theme is the Abu Ghraib prison. They are huge paintings of torture and abuse of power, in the voluminous Botero style. I have not been able to get those images out of my mind or my heart. What I fear most is power with impunity. I fear abuse of power, and the power to abuse. In our species, the alpha males define reality, and force the rest of the pack to accept that reality and follow the rules. The rules change all the time, but they always benefit them, and in this case, the trickle-down effect, which does not work in economics, works perfectly. Abuse trickles down from the top of the ladder to the bottom. Women and children, especially the poor, are at the bottom. Even the most destitute of men have someone they can abuse — a woman or a child. I'm fed up with the power that a few exert over the many through gender, income, race, and class. I think that the time is ripe to make fundamental changes in our civilization. But for real change, we need feminine energy in the management of the world. We need a critical number of women in positions of power, and we need to nurture the feminine energy in men. I'm talking about men with young minds, of course. Old guys are hopeless; we have to wait for them to die off. (Laughter) Yes, I would love to have Sophia Loren's long legs and legendary breasts. But given a choice, I would rather have the warrior hearts of Wangari Maathai, Somaly Mam, Jenny and Rose Mapendo. I want to make this world good. Not better, but to make it good. Why not? It is possible. Look around in this room — all this knowledge, energy, talent and technology. Let's get off our fannies, roll up our sleeves and get to work, passionately, in creating an almost perfect world. Thank you."	非常感謝各位。站在這裡真可怕有這麼多絕頂聰明的人我想在此與大家分享幾個關於熱情的故事我很喜歡一句猶太諺語比事實更真誠的是什麼? 答案就是「故事」身為一個說故事的人，我想訴說比事實更真誠的事跟日常人性相關的事我對所有故事都感興趣，有些甚至令我惦念不忘直到我終於把它們寫出來有些主題不斷出現正義、忠誠、暴力、死亡、政治及社會議題還有自由我注意到我們身邊的難解之事所以我書寫巧合、預兆感情、夢想、自然的力量、奇蹟 過去 20 年內，我出版了幾本書但過著不出名的平凡生活。直到 2006 年 2 月那年的冬季奧運在義大利舉行，而我負責護旗進場因此才成了名人。現在連去百貨公司都會被認出來而且我的孫子們都覺得我很酷(笑聲)容我在此說說這讓我成名的 4 分鐘一名籌辦奧運開幕式的籌辦人打電話通知我獲選成為護旗者之一我回答，這一定是認錯人了因為我根本不是運動員事實上，我甚至不確定可走得完體育場一圈要是不用柺杖的話(笑聲)她告訴我這不是開玩笑這將是史上第一次全部由女性擔任奧運會旗護旗手5 名女性將分別代表 5 大洲另外還有 3 位奧運金牌得主我的第一個問題當然是那我要穿什麼？(笑聲)有制服，她這麼說然後問了我的三圍我的三圍！我可以預見自己穿著澎澎的厚夾克看起來活像個米其林輪胎寶寶(笑聲) 到了 2 月中旬，我到了杜林，當地群眾很熱情在街上，參加奧運的 80 支代表隊一律得到熱烈歡呼這些運動員為奧運比賽犧牲了一切他們都值得贏，不過還是要靠點運氣雪上的小瑕疵、冰層的些微差距、風力都可能主宰比賽的結果但訓練或運氣之外，最重要的因素就是「心」只有無懼且堅定的心才能奪金靠的全是熱情杜林街上滿是紅色海報上面印著奧運標語。 熱情就在這裡。不正是這樣嗎？心，是我們的動力也決定我們的命運我書中角色所需要的正是充滿熱情的心我需要充滿反骨、異議、勇於冒險和改革的角色她們提出質疑、跳脫成規而且願意冒險就像在座各位循規蹈矩的好人不會是有趣的角色(笑聲)他們只會是好前夫 (妻)(笑聲)(掌聲) 在體育場的綠色房間裡，我見到其他護旗手3 位運動員、演員蘇珊莎蘭登和蘇菲雅羅蘭還有兩位心中充滿熱情的女性來自肯亞的諾貝爾獎得主汪佳‧瑪太她種了 3 千萬棵樹，而且藉此改善了土壤和氣候改變了非洲的一部份地區，當然也改善了許多村落的經濟狀況還有柬普寨行動派女子蘇曼麗‧曼她傾注熱情，打擊童妓陋習14 歲時，祖父將她賣到妓院她告訴我們，小女孩在那被男人強暴那些人相信跟年紀很小的處女做愛可以治好愛滋病還有那些逼孩子們每天接客 515 次的妓院如果孩子反抗，就會被電擊折磨在這個綠色房間，我收到制服跟我慣穿的衣服不同不過，也絕對不是米其林寶寶裝出乎我意料，其實還不錯我看起來像個冰箱。(笑聲)不過，其他護旗手也大多一樣，除了蘇菲雅羅蘭這個世界公認的美麗與熱情的象徵她 70 多歲而且看起來很美性感、纖瘦又高挑，還有古銅色的皮膚怎樣才能有古銅色的皮膚而且沒有縐紋？我不知道電視記者問「妳保持亮麗的祕訣是什麼？」她回答「保持好的體態。我總是抬頭挺胸而且我不發出老人的怪聲音。」(笑聲)現在，你們都知道這些免費妙方全世界最美的女人之一提供的喔不呻吟、咳嗽、氣喘不自言自語、不放屁(笑聲)她是沒真說不放屁啦(笑聲) 到了約午夜我們被叫到體育場一側擴音機傳來會旗進場，然後開始奏樂順帶一提，就是跟這裡同樣的音樂阿依達進行曲蘇菲雅羅蘭就排在我前面，比我高一個頭蓬蓬頭不算的話(笑聲)她優雅地走著，就像非洲草原上的長頸鹿將旗子的一角舉在肩上。我則在後面小跑步追(笑聲)還掂著腳，舉高了手才握得到旗子所以，我的頭其實在那面該死的旗子下面(笑聲)所有的鏡頭焦點當然是蘇菲雅算我幸運，因為大部分刊出的照片中都有我，雖然常是出現在蘇菲雅的雙腿間(笑聲)那可是大部分男人夢寐以求的地方(笑聲)(掌聲) 我一生中最高潮的 4 分鐘就在這奧運體育館中我老公聽我這麼說，覺得不受尊重即使我跟他解釋，我們私下作的事通常撐不到 4 分鐘(笑聲)所以他不該覺得我是在針對他我留下那輝煌 4 分鐘的所有剪報因為我想永遠記得即使老了，記憶力衰退 我也要永遠將奧運的關鍵字銘記於心那就是「熱情」接下來又是一個跟熱情相關的故事時間是 1988 年，而地點則是一座囚營住的都是剛果境內的圖西族難民順帶一提，世界上 80% 的難民及流民都是婦女及女童。這個地方簡直是剛果的死囚營因為沒有被殺的人，大多病死或餓死故事的主角是個年輕女性蘿絲‧瑪班多和她的孩子們她是個懷孕的寡婦軍人們逼她眼睜睜看著自己的丈夫被凌虐至死。不知怎的，她竟然讓她 7 個孩子活了下來還在幾個月後早產生下一對雙胞胎。兩個好小的男嬰。她用棍子自己割斷臍帶然後用頭髮把斷口綁起來她用營地指揮官的名字為孩子命名以求得憐憫，讓指揮官施捨紅茶餵他們因為她的母乳不夠軍人們闖進她的牢房要強暴她大女兒時她死命抱著女兒不放手即便頭上抵著槍很奇蹟的，這家人存活了 16 個月然後，靠著絕佳的運氣和美國人沙夏‧查洛夫的熱心幫助她成功地搭上美國救援機蘿絲帶著 9 個孩子，最後到了亞利桑納州鳳凰城在那裡生活、成長茁壯 瑪班多在非洲史瓦西里方言中的意思是「偉大的愛」我書中的主角都是堅強且富熱情的女性就像蘿絲‧瑪班多她們並非虛構，也不必虛構在我周遭，這樣的身影無所不在我一生都在為女性、和女性一起工作我對她們再熟悉不過我出生在很久以前，在很遠的地方一個宗主派天主教的保守家庭難怪我 5 歲就已經是個熱血沸騰的女權主義者不過當時女權這個名詞還不流行因此沒人知道我到底是哪根筋不對勁(笑聲)很快地，我就發現要付出極高的代價才能享受自由，還有跟長老頂嘴但是我甘之如飴，因為我每次被罰下次都能雙倍奉還(笑聲)有次，我當時 20 多歲的女兒寶拉告訴我女權運動過時了，叫我放手好好過日子我們因此吵了一場終身難忘的架。女權過時了嗎？的確，對於我女兒和在座各位這樣幸福的女性，女權是過時了不過對其他地方的姊妹們可不是如此她們還是被逼著非常小就嫁人、成為妓女、被逼著工作生下自己不想要或養不起的孩子們無法掌控自己的身體或人生無法受教育而且沒有自由被強暴、毆打，有時候因受罰被殺對於今日大多數西方女性來說，被叫做女權主義者是一種侮辱女權從來就不吸引人。不過我跟大家保證我從來沒有因此失去調情的機會而且我很少有缺乏男性的煩惱(笑聲)女權還未死，絕不會死只是進化了。如果不喜歡這個名詞就改了它吧！改叫愛芙若蒂、維納斯或花瓶，隨便你名稱不重要只要我們瞭解並支持其意義 我再說個熱情的故事。這是個悲傷的故事發生在孟加拉的一個村子裡的小婦女診所時間是 2005 年珍妮是個年輕的美國潔牙師她到診所當義工奉獻自己 3 星期的假期她以為自己是來幫忙洗牙的沒想到這裡才發現沒有醫生沒有牙醫，而且診所僅是個蒼蠅亂飛茅草窩外面站著排隊的一堆女人已經等了幾個小時要看醫生第一個病人痛苦難當因為她好幾顆臼齒都蛀掉了珍妮知道唯一的辦法就是拔掉蛀牙但是她沒有執照，也從沒經驗她雖然打算放手一搏卻很害怕她沒有合適的工具還好帶了一些麻醉藥珍妮有顆勇敢而熱情的心她喃喃祈禱，然後開始拔牙最後，病患不痛了，感激的吻了她的手那天，這個潔牙師就拔了好多顆牙第二天早上，當她再次走進這個所謂的診所時她的第一個病人跟丈夫已經在那等她那女人的臉腫的像個西瓜腫到看不見眼睛她的丈夫氣極了，揚言殺了這個美國人珍妮被自己造成的後果嚇壞了但是翻譯解釋病人的狀況並不是因為拔牙前一天，丈夫因為她趕不及回家為他準備晚餐，狠狠打了她一頓 今天仍有數百萬女性過著這樣的生活她們是最可憐可哀的人縱使女性分擔世界上 3 分之 2 的勞力工作卻僅擁有不到 1% 的全球資產她們與男人同工，薪資卻較低有時甚至無薪，而且她們仍然是弱者因為無法經濟獨立同時飽受操弄、暴力和虐待的威脅事實是提供女性教育、工作掌管自己收入的能力、繼承並擁有財產，對社會有益如果女人有力量那她的孩子和家庭狀況就會好轉一但家庭富足，村落也會富足最終擴大到整個國家的富足 汪加‧瑪太到肯亞的村落跟女人們談，告訴她們土地已經貧瘠因為砍樹賣柴她讓女人們種植灌溉新樹一滴接著一滴就這樣在 5 或 6 年後，造就出一座森林滋養了土壤，同時也救了村落最窮最落後的社會往往就是那些壓抑女性的社會然而，如此顯而易見的事實卻被政府以及慈善機構忽略女性相關計畫每得到 1 美元就有 20 美元用來資助男性相關計畫女性佔人類人口的 51%給予她們力量將改變一切不僅是科技、設計和娛樂我可以保證，要是女性合作串聯、有知識並受教育就能為這個病入膏肓的星球帶來和平與繁榮今天的任何戰爭中，死傷最多的都是平民主要是女性和兒童，她們都是炮灰男人掌管世界，結果管成了怎樣的一個爛攤子 我們要的是怎樣的世界？這是大部分人都在問的基本問題認同現今的世界秩序是否合理？我們要一個保存生命的世界一個生活品質能夠均富非僅限幸運群體的地方一月份，我去看了費南多‧巴特羅的畫展在博克萊大學圖書館全美沒有其他博物館或畫廊像紐約畫廊一樣，不但收藏巴特羅的畫而且膽敢展示。因為題材是發生虐囚案的阿布格雷布監獄全場都是表現虐待和權力暴力的大幅畫作大量的用巴特羅風格呈現至今我仍無法將那些影像自腦海或心中忘記我最大的恐懼就是無須負責的權力我害怕濫用權力以及權力暴力在我們這個族群，大男人定義現實然後逼迫其他成員接受現實遵守規則規則常常在變，但總是對男性有益就這樣，在一致奉行的狀況下在經濟上行不通的想法，卻安穩的被執行從上到下，一層層的欺壓濫權女性和兒童，尤其是貧窮的，就這麼被壓到底層即使是最一無所有的男人也有人可以凌虐常常是個女人或小孩我再也受不了少數人操縱多數人透過性別、收入、種族和階級的手段 我認為現在時機已經成熟，可以從根本改變我們的文明不過若要真正改變，就需要讓女性的能量參與世界的管理我們需要讓足夠的女性掌握權力我們需要培養男性心中的女性能量我說的當然是年輕男性老男人都沒救了，只能等著他們死光(笑聲)的確，我很想擁有蘇菲雅羅蘭的長腿和著名的酥胸不過若可以選擇，我寧願有顆勇敢的心像汪佳‧瑪太、蘇曼麗‧曼、珍妮和蘿絲我要改善這個世界不只是消極的等待改變，而是參與改變為什麼不？這是做得到的。看看這裡滿是知識、活力、才華和科技讓我們走出冷氣房，捲起袖子開始行動，帶著我們的熱情創造一個近乎完美的世界謝謝大家。
