Talk	en	zh-tw
isabel_behncke_evolution_s_gift_of_play_from_bonobo_apes_to_humans	"I just came back from a community that holds the secret to human survival. It's a place where women run the show, have sex to say hello, and play rules the day — where fun is serious business. And no, this isn't Burning Man or San Francisco. (Laughter) Ladies and gentlemen, meet your cousins. This is the world of wild bonobos in the jungles of Congo. Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees, your living closest relative. That means we all share a common ancestor, an evolutionary grandmother, who lived around six million years ago. Now, chimpanzees are well-known for their aggression. (Laughter) But unfortunately, we have made too much of an emphasis of this aspect in our narratives of human evolution. But bonobos show us the other side of the coin. While chimpanzees are dominated by big, scary guys, bonobo society is run by empowered females. These guys have really worked something out, since this leads to a highly tolerant society where fatal violence has not been observed yet. But unfortunately, bonobos are the least understood of the great apes. They live in the depths of the Congolese jungle, and it has been very difficult to study them. The Congo is a paradox — a land of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty, but also the heart of darkness itself — the scene of a violent conflict that has raged for decades and claimed nearly as many lives as the First World War. Not surprisingly, this destruction also endangers bonobo survival. Bushmeat trades and forest loss means we couldn't fill a small stadium with all the bonobos that are left in the world — and we're not even sure of that to be honest. Yet, in this land of violence and chaos, you can hear hidden laughter swaying the trees. Who are these cousins? We know them as the ""make love, not war"" apes since they have frequent, promiscuous and bisexual sex to manage conflict and solve social issues. Now, I'm not saying this is the solution to all of humanity's problems — since there's more to bonobo life than the Kama Sutra. Bonobos, like humans, love to play throughout their entire lives. Play is not just child's games. For us and them, play is foundational for bonding relationships and fostering tolerance. It's where we learn to trust and where we learn about the rules of the game. Play increases creativity and resilience, and it's all about the generation of diversity — diversity of interactions, diversity of behaviors, diversity of connections. And when you watch bonobo play, you're seeing the very evolutionary roots of human laughter, dance and ritual. Play is the glue that binds us together. Now, I don't know how you play, but I want to show you a couple of unique clips fresh from the wild. First, it's a ball game bonobo-style — and I do not mean football. So here, we have a young female and a male engaged in a chase game. Have a look what she's doing. It might be the evolutionary origin of the phrase, ""she's got him by the balls."" (Laughter) Only I think that he's rather loving it here, right? Yeah. (Laughter) So sex play is common in both bonobos and humans. And this video is really interesting because it shows — this video's really interesting because it shows the inventiveness of bringing unusual elements into play — such as testicles — and also how play both requires trust and fosters trust — while at the same time being tremendous fun. But play's a shapeshifter. (Laughter) Play's a shapeshifter, and it can take many forms, some of which are more quiet, imaginative, curious — maybe where wonder is discovered anew. And I want you to see, this is Fuku, a young female, and she is quietly playing with water. I think, like her, we sometimes play alone, and we explore the boundaries of our inner and our outer worlds. And it's that playful curiosity that drives us to explore, drives us to interact, and then the unexpected connections we form are the real hotbed for creativity. So these are just small tasters into the insights that bonobo give us to our past and present. But they also hold a secret for our future, a future where we need to adapt to an increasingly challenging world through greater creativity and greater cooperation. The secret is that play is the key to these capacities. In other words, play is our adaptive wildcard. In order to adapt successfully to a changing world, we need to play. But will we make the most of our playfulness? Play is not frivolous. Play's essential. For bonobos and humans alike, life is not just red in tooth and claw. In times when it seems least appropriate to play, it might be the times when it is most urgent. And so, my fellow primates, let us embrace this gift from evolution and play together, as we rediscover creativity, fellowship and wonder. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我剛從一個社群回來牠們掌握著人類生存的秘密。在這個地方，女性主導一切，要做愛就打聲招呼，玩樂是一整天要做的事快樂玩耍是個正經事。不是，這不是指欲火焚燒的男人也不是指舊金山。（笑聲）女士先生，見見你的近親這就是野生倭黑猩猩的世界座落于剛果的叢林裡倭黑猩猩和黑猩猩是我們大家生活裡最密切相關的近親這意思是我們都共同擁有一個祖先，一個進化了的祖母，她生活在大約6百萬年前。現在，黑猩猩因他們的好勇鬥狠而聞名於世 （笑聲） 但不幸的是，我們已經過分強調這方面在人類進化的歷史中所起的作用但是倭黑猩猩顯示給我們的是這硬幣的另一面當黑猩猩被又大又嚇人的雄黑猩猩統領時，倭黑猩猩社群是由雌倭黑猩猩所領導。這些倭黑猩猩能相安無事地生活在一起，由此形成了一個高度包容性的社會在這社群，致命的暴力行為還沒有被觀察到但不幸的是，倭黑猩猩是類人猿裡最難被瞭解的一種。牠們生活在剛果叢林的深處，所以對牠們的研究非常困難。 剛果是個似是而非的矛盾體—她是一塊孕育非凡的生物多樣性和美麗的土地，但她自身也是黑暗之心暴力衝突的場景已經持續了幾十年奪去許多生命就如第一次世界大戰一樣。不足為奇的是，這種破壞也危及倭黑猩猩的生存。獵尋獸肉的買賣和叢林消失意味著我們不能給在世界上僅存的倭黑猩猩們提供一個小小的棲息地說實話，我們甚至都不能確定是否會有一個小的棲息地。然而，在這個充斥暴力和混亂的土地上你能聽到隱約的笑聲搖曳在樹木中。 這些近親是些什麼動物啊?我們知道它們是""做愛，不作戰""的類人猿，因此牠們有頻繁的、隨性的性生活和雙性性交來處理衝突和解決社會問題。我現在不是說這就是解決人類所有問題的方法因為玩樂對於倭黑猩猩來說比起欲經 ( Kama Sutra) 指涉地地更多。倭黑猩猩就像人類，牠們整個一生都愛玩樂玩樂不僅僅是孩子的遊戲。對於我們人類和倭黑猩猩，玩樂是建立親密關係和培養容忍性的基礎。牠也讓我們學會信任和遊戲的規則玩樂增進了創造力和適應力，這些都有關多樣性的產生多樣性的相互作用，多樣性的行為，和多樣性的聯繫。當你看倭黑猩猩玩樂時，你會看到非常進化的根源有關人類的笑聲，跳舞和儀式。玩樂就是粘著劑使得我們相互聯繫在一起。 現在我雖不知你是怎麼玩樂的，但我想給你們看兩段剛從野外拍攝到的特別剪輯首先，這是一個倭黑猩猩式的球類遊戲我不是指足球。在這，兩隻年輕的一雌一雄倭黑猩猩在玩追逐遊戲。看看她在做什麼。這可能就是某個關於的進化起源的短語:“她在玩弄他的蛋蛋。”（笑聲）我只想到他相當喜歡這樣的方式，對吧。是的。（笑聲）所以性遊戲在倭黑猩猩和人類兩者身上都是司空見慣的。這個影片真的很有趣因為它證明—這個影片真的很有趣因為它證明了把不尋常的因素帶進遊戲裡所產生的創造性例如睾丸—遊戲如何能尋求信任和培養信任—與此同時又樂趣無窮。 但玩樂是一個變形的過程（笑聲）玩樂是一個變形的過程，它可以變成許多玩樂遊戲，一些遊戲是較安靜的，富有想像力的，富有好奇心的—或許這玩樂的奇妙是發現新鮮事。我想讓大家看看，這是福酷，一個年輕雌倭黑猩猩，她正悄悄地玩耍水。我認為，就像她，我們有時獨自玩耍，我們探索著我們內心和我們外部世界的界限。正是玩樂的新奇感驅使我們去探索，驅使我們去互動聯繫。然後我們所形成的這種意想不到的聯繫是真正孕育創造力的溫床。 因此這些僅是淺嘗而已由倭黑猩猩帶給我們這種深刻的洞察力來探索我們的過去和現在。但牠們也對我們的未來保有一個秘密，在未來我們需要適應一個日益充滿挑戰性的世界通過史無前例的創造性和更多的合作來做到。這秘密是玩樂是具備這些能力的關鍵。換言之，玩樂是我們適應未來的萬能牌。為了成功地適應一個變化中的世界，我們需要玩樂。但我們要盡可能地嬉戲玩樂嗎?玩樂不是無足輕重的；玩樂是至關重要的。對於倭黑猩猩和人類一樣，生活不僅僅是血紅的牙齒和利爪。好似最不適宜去玩樂的時候，但它可能是最迫切需要玩樂的時候。 那麼，我的靈長類的同胞們，讓我們擁護這天賦進化的禮物讓我們一起嬉戲玩樂，由此我們重新發現創造力，情同手足的關係以及各種驚異。 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
