Talk	en	zh-tw
isabel_allende_how_to_live_passionately_no_matter_your_age	"Hi, kids. (Laughter) I'm 71. (Applause) My husband is 76. My parents are in their late 90s, and Olivia, the dog, is 16. So let's talk about aging. Let me tell you how I feel when I see my wrinkles in the mirror and I realize that some parts of me have dropped and I can't find them down there. (Laughter) Mary Oliver says in one of her poems, ""Tell me, what is it that you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?"" Me, I intend to live passionately. When do we start aging? Society decides when we are old, usually around 65, when we get Medicare, but we really start aging at birth. We are aging right now, and we all experience it differently. We all feel younger than our real age, because the spirit never ages. I am still 17. Sophia Loren. Look at her. She says that everything you see she owes to spaghetti. I tried it and gained 10 pounds in the wrong places. But attitude, aging is also attitude and health. But my real mentor in this journey of aging is Olga Murray. This California girl at 60 started working in Nepal to save young girls from domestic bondage. At 88, she has saved 12,000 girls, and she has changed the culture in the country. (Applause) Now it is illegal for fathers to sell their daughters into servitude. She has also founded orphanages and nutritional clinics. She is always happy and eternally young. What have I lost in the last decades? People, of course, places, and the boundless energy of my youth, and I'm beginning to lose independence, and that scares me. Ram Dass says that dependency hurts, but if you accept it, there is less suffering. After a very bad stroke, his ageless soul watches the changes in the body with tenderness, and he is grateful to the people who help him. What have I gained? Freedom: I don't have to prove anything anymore. I'm not stuck in the idea of who I was, who I want to be, or what other people expect me to be. I don't have to please men anymore, only animals. I keep telling my superego to back off and let me enjoy what I still have. My body may be falling apart, but my brain is not, yet. I love my brain. I feel lighter. I don't carry grudges, ambition, vanity, none of the deadly sins that are not even worth the trouble. It's great to let go. I should have started sooner. And I also feel softer because I'm not scared of being vulnerable. I don't see it as weakness anymore. And I've gained spirituality. I'm aware that before, death was in the neighborhood. Now, it's next door, or in my house. I try to live mindfully and be present in the moment. By the way, the Dalai Lama is someone who has aged beautifully, but who wants to be vegetarian and celibate? (Laughter) Meditation helps. (Video) Child: Ommm. Ommm. Ommm. Isabel Allende: Ommm. Ommm. There it is. And it's good to start early. You know, for a vain female like myself, it's very hard to age in this culture. Inside, I feel good, I feel charming, seductive, sexy. Nobody else sees that. (Laughter) I'm invisible. I want to be the center of attention. I hate to be invisible. (Laughter) (Applause) This is Grace Dammann. She has been in a wheelchair for six years after a terrible car accident. She says that there is nothing more sensual than a hot shower, that every drop of water is a blessing to the senses. She doesn't see herself as disabled. In her mind, she's still surfing in the ocean. Ethel Seiderman, a feisty, beloved activist in the place where I live in California. She wears red patent shoes, and her mantra is that one scarf is nice but two is better. She has been a widow for nine years, but she's not looking for another mate. She says that there is only a limited number of ways you can screw — well, she says it in another way — and she has tried them all. (Laughter) I, on the other hand, I still have erotic fantasies with Antonio Banderas — (Laughter) — and my poor husband has to put up with it. So how can I stay passionate? I cannot will myself to be passionate at 71. I have been training for some time, and when I feel flat and bored, I fake it. Attitude, attitude. How do I train? I train by saying yes to whatever comes my way: drama, comedy, tragedy, love, death, losses. Yes to life. And I train by trying to stay in love. It doesn't always work, but you cannot blame me for trying. And, on a final note, retirement in Spanish is jubilación. Jubilation. Celebration. We have paid our dues. We have contributed to society. Now it's our time, and it's a great time. Unless you are ill or very poor, you have choices. I have chosen to stay passionate, engaged with an open heart. I am working on it every day. Want to join me? Thank you. (Applause) June Cohen: So Isabel — IA: Thank you. JC: First of all, I never like to presume to speak for the TED community, but I would like to tell you that I have a feeling we can all agree that you are still charming, seductive and sexy. Yes? IA: Aww, thank you. (Applause) JC: Hands down. IA: No, it's makeup. Moderator: Now, would it be awkward if I asked you a follow-up question about your erotic fantasies? IA: Oh, of course. About what? (Laughter) Moderator: About your erotic fantasies. IA: With Antonio Banderas. Moderator: I was just wondering if you have anything more to share. IA: Well, one of them is that — (Laughter) One of them is that I place a naked Antonio Banderas on a Mexican tortilla, I slather him with guacamole and salsa, I roll him up, and I eat him. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)"	嗨，孩子們。 （笑聲） 我七十一歲了。 （掌聲）我的丈夫七十六歲了。我的父母年歲近百，那隻狗奧莉維亞十六歲。所以今晚我們來談談老化。 讓我告訴你當我在鏡子裡看到皺紋時的感受，就是發覺自己掉了某些東西卻在下面也遍尋不著。（笑聲） 瑪麗·奧利佛在她的詩裡曾說：「告訴我，你打算用你瘋狂、寶貴的人生來做些什麼？」我呢，想要過得很有熱情。 我們從何時開始老化呢？這取決於我們的社會，這通常是六十五歲獲得聯邦醫療保險後，但其實我們自出生以來就一直在老化。我們現在正老著，但我們每個人的經驗都略有不同。我們都覺得自己比實際年齡要來的年輕，因為精神永不變老。我仍只有十七歲。這位是蘇菲亞·羅倫，看看她。她說你所看到她的一切都歸功於義大利麵。我試著學她，反倒在不對的地方增了十磅。態度，老化也有關態度和健康。但真正成為我老化歷程嚮導的人是奧加·莫瑞。這個加州女孩在六十歲時開始在尼泊爾救濟少女，幫助她們遠離奴隸販賣。八十八歲時，她救了十二萬名少女，並改變了當地的文化。（掌聲）現在當地的父親不能將自己的女兒賣去當奴隸，否則違法。她還發起了幾所孤兒院以及營養門診。她總是很快樂，心靈上也總是很年輕。 幾十年來，我喪失了什麼？當然是人，還有地方和年輕時候無限的精力，此時的我開始喪失自我獨立的能力，那真的很嚇人。朗·達斯說，需要依賴別人很痛心，但若你能接受事實，那麼就能受少些苦。他中了風以後，用他那不老的心靈去細心關照自己體內的變化，並由衷感激那些曾幫助過他的人。 那我又得到了甚麼？那就是：不必向任何人證明的自由。我不再拘泥於對自己的看法，和理想中的自己，或是別人對我的期望。我不再需要討好男人，只要討好動物就好。我總告訴自己的超我意識退下且讓我享受僅存的時間。我的身體可能大不如前，但我的腦袋仍很健壯。我喜歡我的腦袋。我覺得輕鬆。我不帶憎恨、野心或是虛榮心，這些事情根本不值得我們花費心思。懂得放下很好。早知道，我會更早學習放下。同時，我也感到更溫柔，因為我再也不害怕受傷害。我再也不認為這是個弱點。還有，我得到了靈性。我之前就明白處處都有死亡的風險。現在，死亡可能就在隔壁，或是我家。我試著踏實的過活並活在當下。順道一提，達賴喇嘛是個老得很精彩的人，不過有誰想吃素又禁慾？（笑聲） 靜坐很有幫助。 （影片）小孩：唵，唵，唵。 伊莎貝兒：唵，唵。就是這樣。早點開始很好。 知道嗎，對於像我這樣愛慕虛榮的女性來說，要在這社會老化是很不容易的。我個人覺得自己很好，很迷人且性感誘人。但沒人看得見。（笑聲）我是隱形的。我想要成為焦點。我很討厭自己是隱形的。（笑聲）（掌聲） 這是葛雷絲·達曼。一場意外的車禍使得她六年來依靠輪椅生活。她說，沒有什麼比熱水澡要來得令人滿足，因為每一滴水都是感官上的享受。她不視自己為殘障人士。在她的認知裡，她仍暢遊大海。活躍的伊索·瑟德曼，一個倍受愛戴的活動家，跟我住在加州的同一區。她總穿著紅色漆皮鞋，她的口頭禪是一條圍巾不錯，但兩條更好。她當了九年的寡婦，但她並沒有尋找另個配偶的意願。她說世界上上床的招數有限。好吧，她沒有說得這麼委婉，不過她全試過了。（笑聲）而我呢，我還有一些和安東尼奧·班德拉斯激情的幻想。（笑聲）我可憐的丈夫則得忍受。 所以我到底如何保有熱情呢？我不能光用意志讓七十一歲的自己保有熱情。這一陣子我訓練自己在覺得乏味無趣的時候，假裝自己很快樂。態度，態度很重要。我是怎麼訓練自己的呢？我對任何朝我而來的事物都說「好」：悲歡離合，愛戀、死亡和種種的失去。對生命說「好」。我也會試著讓自己儘量去愛。雖然並不是每次都管用，但你不能怪我嘗試。 最後，退休的西班牙語是 Jubilación。Jubilación 代表慶祝。我們最終了了職責。最終回饋了社會。現在是我們的時間，一個美好的時候。除非你殘疾或生活貧困，不然你擁有許多選擇。我選擇保持熱情，樂觀開明的去看待世界。現在的我，天天都在練習。你想要參與嗎？ 謝謝。 （掌聲） 朱恩·可恩：那麼伊莎貝——伊莎貝：謝謝。 朱恩：第一，我從來就不喜歡假定自己為 TED 的發言人，但我想說，我覺得大家都能認同你還是迷人、性感且誘人的。對不對？ 伊莎貝：哦，謝謝。（掌聲） 朱恩：甘拜下風。伊莎貝：不，其實是靠化妝。 主持人：現在，假設我追加一個有關你激情幻想的問題，你會很尷尬嗎？ 伊莎貝：哦，當然了。有關什麼？ （笑聲） 主持人：有關你的激情幻想。伊莎貝：跟安東尼奧·班德拉斯。 主持人：我只是在想你有沒有其他想分享的？ 伊莎貝：呃，其中一個是——（笑聲）其中一個是，我會把全裸的安東尼奧放在一片墨西哥捲餅上，並把他塗滿酪梨醬和墨西哥辣醬，我會把他捲起來，再把他給吃了。（笑聲） 謝謝。 （掌聲）
