Talk	en	zh-tw
ivan_coyote_why_we_need_gender_neutral_bathrooms	"There are a few things that all of us need. We all need air to breathe. We need clean water to drink. We need food to eat. We need shelter and love. You know. Love is great, too. And we all need a safe place to pee. (Laughter) Yeah? As a trans person who doesn't fit neatly into the gender binary, if I could change the world tomorrow to make it easier for me to navigate, the very first thing I would do is blink and create single stall, gender-neutral bathrooms in all public places. (Applause) Trans people and trans issues, they've been getting a lot of mainstream media attention lately. And this is a great and necessary thing, but most of that attention has been focused on a very few individuals, most of whom are kinda rich and pretty famous, and probably don't have to worry that much anymore about where they're going to pee in between classes at their community college, or where they're going to get changed into their gym strip at their public high school. Fame and money insulates these television star trans people from most of the everyday challenges that the rest of us have to tackle on a daily basis. Public bathrooms. They've been a problem for me since as far back as I can remember, first when I was just a little baby tomboy and then later as a masculine-appearing, predominantly estrogen-based organism. (Laughter) Now, today as a trans person, public bathrooms and change rooms are where I am most likely to be questioned or harassed. I've often been verbally attacked behind their doors. I've been hauled out by security guards with my pants still halfway pulled up. I've been stared at, screamed at, whispered about, and one time I got smacked in the face by a little old lady's purse that from the looks of the shiner I took home that day I am pretty certain contained at least 70 dollars of rolled up small change and a large hard candy collection. (Laughter) And I know what some of you are thinking, and you're mostly right. I can and do just use the men's room most of the time these days. But that doesn't solve my change room dilemmas, does it? And I shouldn't have to use the men's room because I'm not a man. I'm a trans person. And now we've got these fearmongering politicians that keep trying to pass these bathroom bills. Have you heard about these? They try to legislate to try and force people like myself to use the bathroom that they deem most appropriate according to the gender I was assigned at birth. And if these politicians ever get their way, in Arizona or California or Florida or just last week in Houston, Texas, or Ottawa, well then, using the men's room will not be a legal option for me either. And every time one of these politicians brings one of these bills to the table, I can't help but wonder, you know, just who will and exactly how would we go about enforcing laws like these. Right? Panty checks? Really. Genital inspections outside of bath change rooms at public pools? There's no legal or ethical or plausible way to enforce laws like these anyway. They exist only to foster fear and promote transphobia. They don't make anyone safer. But they do for sure make the world more dangerous for some of us. And meanwhile, our trans children suffer. They drop out of school, or they opt out of life altogether. Trans people, especially trans and gender-nonconforming youth face additional challenges when accessing pools and gyms, but also universities, hospitals, libraries. Don't even get me started on how they treat us in airports. If we don't move now to make sure that these places are truly open and accessible to everyone, then we just need to get honest and quit calling them public places. We need to just admit that they are really only open for people who fit neatly into one of two gender boxes, which I do not. I never have. And this starts very early. I know a little girl. She's the daughter of a friend of mine. She's a self-identified tomboy. I'm talking about cowboy boots and Caterpillar yellow toy trucks and bug jars, the whole nine yards. One time I asked her what her favorite color was. She told me, ""Camouflage."" (Laughter) So that awesome little kid, she came home from school last October from her half day of preschool with soggy pants on because the other kids at school were harassing her when she tried to use the girls' bathroom. And the teacher had already instructed her to stay out of the boys' bathroom. And she had drank two glasses of that red juice at the Halloween party, and I mean, who can resist that red juice, right? It's so good. And she couldn't hold her pee any longer. Her and her classmates were four years old. They already felt empowered enough to police her use of the so-called public bathrooms. She was four years old. She had already been taught the brutal lesson that there was no bathroom door at preschool with a sign on it that welcomed people like her. She'd already learned that bathrooms were going to be a problem, and that problem started with her and was hers alone. So my friend asked me to talk to her little daughter, and I did. I wanted to tell her that me and her mom were going to march on down and talk to that school, and the problem was going to go away, but I knew that wasn't true. I wanted to tell her that it was all going to get better when she got older, but I couldn't. So I asked her to tell me the story of what had happened, asked her to tell me how it made her feel. ""Mad and sad,"" she told me. So I told her that she wasn't alone and that it wasn't right what had happened to her, and then she asked me if I had ever peed in my pants before. I said yes, I had, but not for a really long time. (Laughter) Which of course was a lie, because you know how you hit, like, 42 or 43, and sometimes you just, I don't know, you pee a little bit when you cough or sneeze, when you're running upstairs, or you're stretching. Don't lie. It happens. Right? She doesn't need to know that, I figure. (Laughter) I told her, when you get older, your bladder is going to grow bigger, too. When you get old like me, you're going to be able to hold your pee for way longer, I promised her. ""Until you can get home?"" she asked me. I said, ""Yes, until you can get home."" She seemed to take some comfort in that. So let's just build some single stall, gender-neutral bathrooms with a little bench for getting changed into your gym clothes. We can't change the world overnight for our children, but we can give them a safe and private place to escape that world, if only for just a minute. This we can do. So let's just do it. And if you are one of those people who is sitting out there right now already coming up with a list of reasons in your head why this is not a priority, or it's too expensive, or telling yourself that giving a trans person a safe place to pee or get changed in supports a lifestyle choice that you feel offends your morality, or your masculinity, or your religious beliefs, then let me just appeal to the part of your heart that probably, hopefully, does care about the rest of the population. If you can't bring yourself to care enough about people like me, then what about women and girls with body image issues? What about anyone with body image stuff going on? What about that boy at school who is a foot shorter than his classmates, whose voice still hasn't dropped yet? Hey? Oh, grade eight, what a cruel master you can be. Right? What about people with anxiety issues? What about people with disabilities or who need assistance in there? What about folks with bodies who, for whatever reason, don't fit into the mainstream idea of what a body should look like? How many of us still feel shy or afraid to disrobe in front of our peers, and how many of us allow that fear to keep us from something as important as physical exercise? Would all those people not benefit from these single stall facilities? We can't change transphobic minds overnight, but we can give everybody a place to get changed in so that we can all get to work making the world safer for all of us. Thank you for listening. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	有幾樣東西我們所有人都需要我們都需要有空氣呼吸我們都需要有乾淨的水喝我們都需要有食物吃我們都需要庇護和愛你知道，愛也是很重要的而且我們都需要安全的地方小解 (笑聲) 對吧？ 作為不符合兩性框架的變性者如果我明天就能改變世界讓我可以更自在的徜徉其中我會做的第一件事就是在眨眼間，把獨立的跨性別廁所建設於每個公共場所 (掌聲)變性者與變性議題最近受到大量的主流媒體注目這是件很棒也必要的事情但是大多的注意力只集中在少數人身上這些人大多都是蠻有錢也滿有名的而且大概也不再需要太擔心當他們在社區大學上課時要在哪裡如廁或者是要在高中裡要去哪裡換運動服名聲與金錢將這些媒體寵兒的跨性別者與幾乎每天都會碰到的困難隔離而我們其餘的人必須每天克服這些難題 公共廁所從我有記憶以來 它們對我而言便是個難題最開始當我還只是個小男人婆時接著是有陽剛外表與明顯雌性器官的時候 (笑聲) 然後 現在作為一個變性者 公共浴廁與更衣室是我最常被質疑或騷擾的地方我時常在更衣室門後受到門外人的言語攻擊我曾經在褲子穿到一半時被保全拖出去我受到打量 有人對我大呼小叫或是背後耳語還有一次 一位矮小的年長女性用皮包甩了我一巴掌而且從那天我身上的瘀青來看我蠻肯定那皮包裡至少有70美金的零錢還有一大包的綜合水果硬糖 (笑聲) 而我知道你們之中有些人會這樣想而你基本上是正確的在大多數的時候 我可以用男廁就好但那並不能解決我使用更衣室的困境 對吧？而且我不應該使用男士洗手間因為我並不是男性我是一位變性人 現在我們碰到一群煽動恐懼的政客試圖通過一些廁所法案你們有聽過相關法案嗎?他們試圖用立法來強迫像我一樣的人們去使用他們認為最恰當的廁所根據我的生理性別要是如這群政客所願的話不論是在亞利桑那州 加州或佛羅里達或者只是上週在德州休斯頓或渥太華那我在這些地方使用男廁所都是違法的事 而每這些政客提出這些有關的法案時我不禁懷疑 你知道究竟是誰將去執行這樣的法律?正是我們 是吧?檢查內褲?說笑的吧?在公共更衣室查核你的外生殖器?沒有法律或倫理貌似合理的理由去實施這樣的法律他們的存在只是為了促進恐懼並傳播跨性別恐懼症他們沒有讓任何人變得更安全但他們肯定讓我們其中一些人的世界更危險 而與此同時 我們跨性別的孩子為此受苦他們輟學 甚至棄世而逃跨性別者 特別是對性別認知不同的年輕人在進入游泳池和健身房的時候必須面臨更多的挑戰不只游泳池 還有大學醫院 圖書館千萬別讓我告訴你我們在機場是如何被對待的 如果我們現在不行動以確保這些地方是真的開放而且可供每一個人使用那我們乾脆誠實一點別叫它們為公共場所了我們必須承認這些場所只開放給只符合兩性概念的族群而我並不在其列我從來就不是而這從很早就開始了 我認識一個小女孩 他是我朋友的女兒她自己覺得自己是個男人婆我說的是她的牛仔靴巨無霸黃色玩具卡車和果醬罐裡的昆蟲 全部都是有一次我問她 她最愛什麼顏色她告訴我 迷彩 (笑聲) 這麼棒的一個小孩子在去年十月從幼兒園上完半天課回家時穿著濕掉的褲子 因為學校裡的其他孩子騷擾她就在她試著要去女生廁所的時候而她的老師已經教過她不能走進男廁她喝了兩大杯的果汁在萬聖節派對上我說 誰有辦法抗拒果汁的誘惑呢?它太好喝了也因此她再也憋不住尿了 她和她的同學們才四歲但他們已經覺得自己有權力去監督她使用所謂的 公共廁所她才四歲啊！她卻已經接受了這殘忍的一課幼稚園裡沒有一間廁所標誌的符號是歡迎像她這樣的人她體悟到如廁將會是一個大麻煩這個麻煩開始跟著她而她必須自己面對所以我朋友請我跟她女兒談談我就去了我想告訴她我跟她母親會殺到學校去跟學校理論 然後所有的問題都搞定了但我知道這不是真的我想告訴他等她長大之後這一切都會變好但我也無能為力所以我問她整件事是如何發生的讓她告訴我她的感受她告訴我 好生氣又好難過!所以我告訴她她不是孤單的還有發生在她身上的事情不是對的然後她問我 有沒有尿在褲子上過?我說有 我有不過沒有一次尿那麼多 (笑聲) 這當然是個謊言因為你們也知道 到了42 43歲我不知道 有時候你只是漏了一點尿可能只是在咳嗽或是打哈欠的時候或是跑上樓梯 或只是伸個懶腰別說謊!事情就是這樣 對吧?她不需要知道這事 我想 (笑聲) 我跟她說 當你長大之後你的膀胱也會一起變大當你到我這個年紀時你憋尿的時間就常很多了我向她保證 憋到可以回家的時候嗎？她如此問道 我說 是直到你可以回家的時候她對此感到舒坦了些 所以讓我們建立一些無性別廁所吧!裡面還要放小板凳可以換上健身服我們不可能一夜之間為了我們的孩子改變全世界但我們可以給他們一個安全而隱私的地方讓他們逃離那個世界哪怕只是一分鐘這就是我們可以做到的所以讓我們著手吧 而如果你現在正坐在那兒腦中浮現了一整張清單的理由證明這不是最急迫的或這太昂貴了又或者覺得給跨性別者一個地方上廁所或換衣服有違你的道德感或男子氣概或宗教信仰那讓我懇求你吧！懇求你心中還有那麼一絲絲真心在乎大眾群體的地方如果你沒辦法說服自己給予像我這樣的人足夠的關懷那你又如何對待身體有障礙的婦女呢？那又該如何對待所有身體有障礙的人呢？那些在學校裡比其他同學矮上30公分的男生呢？還沒變聲的他們？噢！八年級啊！你是個多麼殘酷的大師啊！對吧?還有那些焦慮症患者呢?還有那些殘障人士或需要協助的人呢?還有那些人 不論什麼緣故就是不符合大家對身體應該長怎樣的主流認知?我們之中還有多少人覺得害羞或是害怕當你在同儕之中脫下衣衫的時候而我們之中又有多少人因為這種恐懼而讓我們不能做一些重要的日常活動?像是運動健身這些族群不是都會受益於這些單獨隔間的洗手間嗎? 我們不能一夜之間改變人們對跨性別者的恐懼但我們可以給每個人一個更衣的地方為此我們可以一起努力讓這個世界更安全對於我們每一個人 謝謝你們的聆聽 (掌聲) 謝謝 (掌聲)
