Talk	en	zh-tw
j_j_abrams_mystery_box	"Here's my thing. Hold on. There I go. Hey. I want to start today — talk about the structure of a polypeptide. (Laughter) I get a lot of people asking me, in terms of ""Lost,"" you know, ""What the hell's that island?"" You know, it's usually followed by, ""No, seriously, what the hell is that island?"" Why so many mysteries? What is it about mystery that I seem to be drawn to? And I was thinking about this, what to talk about at TED. When I talked to the kind rep from TED, and I said, ""Listen, you know, what should I talk about?"" He said, ""Don't worry about it. Just be profound."" (Laughter) And I took enormous comfort in that. So thank you, if you're here. I was trying to think, what do I talk about? Good question. Why do I do so much stuff that involves mystery? And I started trying to figure it out. And I started thinking about why do I do any of what I do, and I started thinking about my grandfather. I loved my grandfather. Harry Kelvin was his name, my mother's father. He died in 1986. He was an amazing guy. And one of the reasons he was amazing: After World War II, he began an electronics company. He started selling surplus parts, kits, to schools and stuff. So he had this incredible curiosity. As a kid, I saw him come over to me with radios and telephones and all sorts of things. And he'd open them up, he'd unscrew them and reveal the inner workings — which many of us, I'm sure, take for granted. But it's an amazing gift to give a kid. To open up this thing and show how it works and why it works and what it is. He was the ultimate deconstructor, in many ways. And my grandfather was a kind of guy who would not only take things apart, but he got me interested in all sorts of different odd crafts, like, you know, printing, like the letter press. I'm obsessed with printing. I'm obsessed with silk-screening and bookbinding and box making. When I was a kid, I was always, like, taking apart boxes and stuff. And last night in the hotel, I took apart the Kleenex box. I was just looking at it. And I'm telling you — (Laughter) It's a beautiful thing. I swear to God. I mean, when you look at the box and you sort of see how it works. Rives is here, and I met him years ago at a book fair; he does pop-up books. And I'm obsessed with engineering of paper. The scoring of it, the printing of it, where the thing gets glued, the registration marks for the ink. I just love boxes. My grandfather was the guy who kind of got me into all sorts of these things. He would also supply me with tools. He was this amazing encourager — this patron, sort of, to make stuff. And he got me a Super 8 camera when I was 10 years old. And in 1976, that was sort of an anomaly, to be a 10-year-old kid that had access to a camera. And you know, he was so generous; I couldn't believe it. He wasn't doing it entirely without some manipulation. I mean, I would call him, and I'd be like, ""Listen, Grandpa, I really need this camera. You don't understand. This is, like, I want to make movies. I'll get invited to TED one day —"" (Laughter) And, you know, my grandmother was the greatest. Because she'd be like, you know — she'd get on the phone. She'd be like, ""Harry, it's better than the drugs. She was fantastic. So I found myself getting this stuff, thanks to her assist, and suddenly, you know, I had a synthesizer when I was 14 years old — this kind of stuff. And it let me make things, which, to me, was sort of the dream. He sort of humored my obsession to other things too, like magic. The thing is, we'd go to this magic store in New York City called Lou Tannen's Magic. It was this great magic store. It was a crappy little building in Midtown, but you'd be in the elevator, the elevator would open — there'd be this little, small magic store. You'd be in the magic store. And it was a magical place. So I got all these magic tricks. Here. I'll show you. This is the kind of thing. So it would be like, you know. Which is good, but now I can't move. Now, I have to do the rest of the thing like this. I'm like, ""Oh, wow. Look at my computer over there!"" (Laughter) So one of the things that I bought at the magic store was this: Tannen's Mystery Magic Box. The premise behind the Mystery Magic Box was the following: 15 dollars buys you 50 dollars worth of magic. Which is a savings. (Laughter) Now, I bought this decades ago and I'm not kidding. If you look at this, you'll see it's never been opened. But I've had this forever. Now, I was looking at this, it was in my office, as it always is, on the shelf, and I was thinking, why have I not opened this? And why have I kept it? Because I'm not a pack rat. I don't keep everything, but for some reason I haven't opened this box. And I felt like there was a key to this, somehow, in talking about something at TED that I haven't discussed before, and bored people elsewhere. So I thought, maybe there's something with this. And there was this giant question mark. I love the design, for what it's worth, of this thing. And I started thinking, why haven't I opened it? And I realized that I haven't opened it because it represents something important — to me. It represents my grandfather. Am I allowed to cry at TED? Because — no, I'm not going to cry. (Laughter) But — (Laughter) The thing is that it represents infinite possibility. It represents hope. It represents potential. And what I love about this box, and what I realize I sort of do in whatever it is that I do, is I find myself drawn to infinite possibility, that sense of potential. And I realize that mystery is the catalyst for imagination. Now, it's not the most ground-breaking idea, but when I started to think that maybe there are times when mystery is more important than knowledge. I started getting interested in this. And so I started thinking about ""Lost"" and the stuff that we do, and I realized, oh my God, mystery boxes are everywhere in what I do! In the creation of ""Lost,"" Damon Lindelof and I, who created the show with me, we were basically tasked with creating this series that we had very little time to do. We had 11 and a half weeks to write it, cast it, crew it, shoot it, cut it, post it, turn in a two-hour pilot. So it was not a lot of time. And that sense of possibility — what could this thing be? There was no time to develop it. I'm sure you're all familiar with people who tell you what you can't do and what you should change. There was no time for that, which is kind of amazing. And so we did this show, and for those of you who haven't seen it, or don't know it, I can show you one little clip from the pilot, just to show you some stuff that we did. (Engine roaring) (Video) Claire: Help! Please help me! Help me! Please, help me! Jack: Get him out of here! Get him away from the engine! Get him out of here! (Engine roaring) C: Help me, please! I'm having contractions! J: How many months pregnant are you? C: I'm only eight months. J: And how far apart are they coming? C: I don't know. I think it just happened. Man: Hey! Hey! Hey, get away from — JJ Abrams: 10 years ago, if we wanted to do that, we'd have to kill a stuntman. (Laughter) It would be harder. Take two would be a bitch. (Laughter) So the amazing thing was, we were able to do this thing. And part of that was the amazing availability of technology, knowing we could do anything. I mean, we could never have done that. We might have been able to write it; we wouldn't have been able to depict it like we did. So part of the amazing thing for me is in the creative process, technology is mind-blowingly inspiring to me. I realize that that blank page is a magic box, you know? It needs to be filled with something fantastic. I used to have the ""Ordinary People"" script that I'd flip through. The romance was amazing to me; it would inspire me. I wanted to try and fill pages with the same kind of spirit and thought and emotion that that script did. So, you know, I love Apple computers. I'm obsessed. So the Apple computer — the PowerBook — this computer, it challenges me. It basically says, what are you going to write worthy of me? I feel this — I'm compelled. (Laughter) And I often am like, you know, dude, today I'm out. I got nothing. You know? So there's that. In terms of the content of it, you look at stories, you think, what are stories but mystery boxes? There's a fundamental question — in TV, the first act is called the teaser. It's literally the teaser. It's the big question. So you're drawn into it. Then there's another question. And it goes on. Look at ""Star Wars."" The droids meet the mysterious woman. Who's that? We don't know. Mystery box! Then you meet Luke Skywalker. He gets the droid, you see the holographic image. You learn it's a message. She wants to find Obi Wan Kenobi. He's her only hope. But who's Obi Wan Kenobi? Mystery box! So then he meets Ben Kenobi. Ben Kenobi is Obi Wan Kenobi. Holy shit! So it keeps us — (Laughter) Have you guys not seen that? (Laughter) It's huge! Anyway — So there's this thing with mystery boxes that I started feeling compelled. Then there's the thing of mystery in terms of imagination — the withholding of information. You know, doing that intentionally is much more engaging. Whether it's like the shark in ""Jaws"" — if Spielberg's mechanical shark, Bruce, had worked, it would not be remotely as scary; you would have seen it too much. In ""Alien"", they never really showed the alien: terrifying! Even in a movie like a romantic comedy, ""The Graduate,"" they're having that date, and they're in the car, and it's loud, and so they put the top up. You don't hear anything they're saying! You can't hear a word! But it's the most romantic date ever. And you love it because you don't hear it. So to me, there's that. And then, finally, there's this idea — stretching the paradigm a little bit — but the idea of the mystery box. Meaning, what you think you're getting, then what you're really getting. And it's true in so many movies and stories. Look at ""E.T.,"" for example — ""E.T."" is this unbelievable movie about what? It's about an alien who meets a kid, right? Well, it's not. ""E.T."" is about divorce. ""E.T."" is about a heartbroken, divorce-crippled family, and ultimately, this kid who can't find his way. ""Die Hard,"" right? Crazy, great, fun, action-adventure movie in a building. It's about a guy who's on the verge of divorce. He's showing up to L.A., tail between his legs. There are great scenes — maybe not the most amazing dramatic scenes in the history of time, but pretty great scenes. There's a half an hour of investment in character before you get to the stuff that you're expecting. When you look at a movie like ""Jaws,"" the scene that you expect — we have the screen? These are the kind of scenes that you remember and expect from ""Jaws."" And she's being eaten; there's a shark. (Woman screaming) The thing about ""Jaws"" is, it's really about a guy who is sort of dealing with his place in the world — with his masculinity, with his family, how he's going to, you know, make it work in this new town. This is one of my favorite scenes ever, and this is a scene that you wouldn't necessarily think of when you think of ""Jaws."" But it's an amazing scene. (Video) Father: C'mere. Give us a kiss. Son: Why? Father: 'Cause I need it. JJA: Come on. ""Why? 'Cause I need it""? Best scene ever, right? (Laughter) Come on! So you think of ""Jaws"" — so that's the kind of stuff that, like, you know — the investment of character, which is the stuff that really is inside the box, you know? It's why when people do sequels, or rip off movies, you know, of a genre, they're ripping off the wrong thing. You're not supposed to rip off the shark or the monster. You know, if you rip something off — rip off the character. Rip off the stuff that matters. I mean, look inside yourself and figure out what is inside you. Because ultimately, the mystery box is all of us. So there's that. Then the distribution. What's a bigger mystery box than a movie theater? You know? You go to the theater, you're just so excited to see anything. The moment the lights go down is often the best part. And you're full of that amazing — that feeling of excited anticipation. And often, the movie's there and it's going, and then something happens and you go, ""Oh —"", and then, ""Mmm ..."" When it's a great movie, you're along for the ride because you're willing to give yourself to it. So to me, whether it's a TV, an iPod, computer, cell phone — It's funny, I'm an — as I said, Apple fanatic — and one day, about a year or so ago, I was signing on online in the morning to watch Steve Jobs' keynote, because I always do. And he came on, he was presenting the video iPod, and what was on the enormous iPod behind him? ""Lost""! I had no idea! And I realized, holy shit, it'd come full circle. The inspiration I get from the technology is now using the stuff that I do to sell technology. It's nuts! (Laughter) I was going to show you a couple of other things I'm going to skip. I'll show you one other thing that has nothing to do with anything. This is something online; six years ago, they did this. This is an online thing done by guys who had some visual effects experience. But the point was, that they were doing things that were using these mystery boxes that they had — everyone has now. What I've realized is what my grandfather did for me when I was a kid, everyone has access to now. You don't need to have my grandfather, though you wish you had. But I have to tell you — this is a guy doing stuff on a Quadra 950 computer — the resolution's a little bit low — using Infinity software they stopped making 15 years ago. He's doing stuff that looks as amazing as stuff I've seen released from Hollywood. The most incredible sort of mystery, I think, is now the question of what comes next. Because it is now democratized. So now, the creation of media — it's everywhere. The stuff that I was lucky and begging for to get when I was a kid is now ubiquitous. And so, there's an amazing sense of opportunity out there. And when I think of the filmmakers who exist out there now who would have been silenced, you know — who have been silenced in the past — it's a very exciting thing. I used to say in classes and lectures and stuff, to someone who wants to write, ""Go! Write! Do your thing."" It's free, you don't need permission. But now I can say, ""Go make your movie!"" There's nothing stopping you from going out there and getting the technology. You can lease, rent, buy stuff off the shelf that is either as good, or just as good, as the stuff that's being used by the, you know, ""legit people."" No community is best served when only the elite have control. And I feel like this is an amazing opportunity to see what else is out there. When I did ""Mission: Impossible III,"" we had amazing visual effects. ILM did the effects; it was incredible. And sort of my dream to be involved. And there are a couple of sequences in the movie, like these couple of moments I'll show you. There's that. (Video) Luther: Ethan, move! (Explosion) Obviously, I have an obsession with big crazy explosions. So my favorite visual effect in the movie is the one I'm about to show you. It's a scene in which Tom's character wakes up. He's drowsy. He's crazy. And the guy wakes up, and he shoves this gun in his nose and shoots this little capsule into his brain that he's going to use later to kill him, as bad guys do. (Video) Brownway: Good morning. JJA: OK, now. When we shot that scene, the actor who had the gun, an English actor, Eddie Marsan — sweetheart, great guy — he kept taking the gun and putting it into Tom's nose, and it was hurting Tom's nose. And I learned this very early on in my career: Don't hurt Tom's nose. (Laughter) There are three things you don't want to do. Number two is: Don't hurt Tom's nose. So Eddie has this gun — and he's this sweet English guy. He's like, ""Sorry, I don't want to hurt you."" I'm like, ""We have to make this look good."" And I realized that we had to do something because it wasn't working. And I thought back to what I would have done using the Super 8 camera that my grandfather got me sitting in that room, and I realized that hand didn't have to be Eddie Marsan's. It could be Tom's. And Tom would know just how hard to push the gun. He wouldn't hurt himself. So we took his hand and we painted it to look a little bit more like Eddie's. We put it in Eddie's sleeve, and so the hand that you see — that's not Eddie's hand, that's Tom's. So Tom is playing two roles. (Laughter) And he didn't ask for any more money. So here, here. Watch it again. There he is. He's waking up. He's drowsy, been through a lot. (Video) Brownway: Good morning. JJA: Tom's hand. Tom's hand. Tom's hand. Anyway. So ... (Applause) Thanks. (Applause) So you don't need the greatest technology to do things that can work in movies. And the mystery box, in honor of my grandfather, stays closed. Thank you. (Applause)"	今天我要談談這個, 等等. 好了今天我要來談談『多肽』的分子結構很多人問我關於Lost檔案這部影集『那座小島到底是怎麼回事』通常他們會接著問『不, 說真的, 那座島到底是怎麼一回事？』（笑聲） 為什麼有那麼多謎團,到底是什麼讓我如此的著迷我開始思考要在TED談些什麼當我跟TED的代表聊起時, 我說『嘿, 你覺得我應該說些什麼才好？』他回道：『別擔心, 講些意義深遠的就好』我聽完鬆了一大口氣如果你在這場的話, 謝謝你喔 我在想應該來講些什麼. 這是個好問題為什麼我做了那麼多有關神祕事物的東西？我開始探尋其原因我開始思考我為什麼要做這些事然後我想起了我的祖父我很愛我的祖父. 他叫做哈利凱文是我的外祖父. 他在1986年逝世.是個非常棒的人他的其中一項事蹟就是在世界第二大戰之後,他成立一家電子公司他開始把一些多餘的零件,工具賣給學校之類的他擁有非常強烈的好奇心. 當我還小, 看著他拿著各式收音機,電話與其他電器走到我身邊然後他會將它們一個個打開, 鬆開螺絲, 展露其內部構造我想這些對我們來說都是很理所當然的但這對一個孩子而言是非常棒的禮物去拆解一個機器, 展現其運作結構以及原理在許多方面來看, 他都是個解構達人但我外祖父不僅只會拆解東西他還讓我對不同類型的奇特手工藝深感興趣像是印刷, 還有活字版印刷. 我深深地為印刷著迷我也非常喜愛絹印, 書籍裝訂以及盒子製作當我還是個孩子時, 我總愛把盒子之類的東西拆解開來 昨晚在飯店時, 我把一個衛生紙盒拆開來然後我就這麼盯著它看. 我告訴你們, 這其實是件很美妙的事我發誓, 當你看著這個盒子, 你其實就看到它是怎麼構成的Rives今天也在這裡. 我幾年前在一場書展碰到他. 他是做立體書的我覺得那真得很吸引人, 就像個紙張工程像是在紙張上做記號, 將其印刷出來, 接著上膠裝訂就是墨水的標誌記號. 我真的很愛盒子我外祖父就是會讓我對這些事物深深著迷他也會提供我用具他非常的鼓勵我. 資助我讓我發揮當我10歲時, 他便給了我一台Super 8攝影機在當時1976年, 這是非常少見會給一個10歲孩童一台攝影機但他非常的慷慨, 我簡直無法想像但他當然不是完全出於自願我是說, 我會打電話給他說『外公, 我真的很需要這台攝影機』『你不了解. 我以後想要拍電影』『說不定還會被TED邀請去演講 』 但我外婆才是最棒的因為她會湊到電話旁然後說著：『哈利, 這總比嗑藥好, 他應該...』她實在是太棒了所以我開始沉迷於這些事物還好有她的幫忙, 而且突然之間在我14歲時, 我有了音響而這讓我能夠做, 對我當時而言是非常遙不可及的東西他也讓我對其他事物開始產生興趣, 例如魔術有次我們到紐約市的一家魔術道具店—魯泰南魔術店那間店很棒, 是位在市中心裡殘破不堪的小店當你搭電梯而上, 電梯門開了映入眼簾的一家小魔術店, 你就身在一個魔術店裡那是個很神奇的地方我在那裡看到許多魔術伎倆. 我來表演給大家看就像這樣的東西, 然後它會變不見這樣是很好啦, 但我現在無法動彈現在我得完成其餘的步驟, 像這樣『噢! 我的電腦在那呢!』 我在那家魔術店買的一項東西就是:泰南的神秘魔法盒這個神秘魔法盒子背後的旨要就是花15元就買到價值50元的魔術真的相當划算早在幾十年前，我就買了這個盒子但是我從未打開過但我已經擁有它那麼久了我會盯著它看, 擺在辦公室裡的櫃子上然後我不禁自問, 為什麼我不把盒子打開?我為什麼要留著它, 我又不是收藏狂, 我不會把東西都留起來但不知怎麼地, 我從未想要把它打開我覺得那似乎是一個契機可以來TED談談我未曾談過的事也沒有在其他地方拿去煩別人的所以我想也許這有什麼意義, 我開始思索盒子上有個很大的問號, 我喜歡它的設計我開始想, 那我為何不打開它呢? 然後我了解到我沒有打開這盒子, 是因為它代表了某種重要的意義對我來說, 它代表了我的外公我可以在TED這裡大哭嗎? 噢, 我不會哭啦但它其實代表了無限的可能它代表了希望, 代表了潛力這也就是我喜愛這個盒子的原因我發現我所做這一切的原因就是我發現自己深深著迷於無限的可能性與潛力我了解到未知其實就是激發想像力的導引這並不是什麼石破天驚的想法但當我開始思考也許有時未知的力量比知識還要強大, 我開始對此產生興趣 所以我開始發想關於Lost檔案及其他我們所做的我了解到, 噢天啊, 在我所致力的一切裡, 到處都是神祕盒子在發想Lost檔案初期, 我和達蒙林德洛夫我們一起製作這部影集, 在初期是困難重重的沒有什麼時間去做, 我們只有約11個禮拜把劇本寫好, 選演員, 找團隊, 拍攝, 剪輯成兩小時的首播集所以真的沒多少時間去做.不知道事情會變得如何？我們並沒有其他時間將其發展下去我想大家都已經都很熟悉總會有人告訴你哪些事不能做, 應該改變什麼但已經沒有時間去調整, 其實也很神奇我們製作了這部影集, 對那些沒有看過的人或沒聽過的人, 我在這裡秀一段首集的片段讓大家對我們所做的東西更為了解 救命阿！救命！ 把他帶離這裡, 不要待在引擎旁 , 快把他移開 我好像快要生了 你現在幾個月的身孕了？ 只有八個月 陣痛的時間多久了？ 我不知道, 我想是剛剛才開始的 嘿！趕快離開 十年前如果我們要拍這場戲, 可能就得殺一位替身事實上...這會更加的困難, 如果還NG就完了神奇的地方在於我們可以完成這樣的事部分原因得歸功於現代科技的發達讓我們無所不能, 從前我們是無法做到的以前我們也許可以描述出來, 但我們無法精準的體現我覺得另一個神奇的是創意的產出過程對我來說, 科技激發我強烈的靈感我了解到空白頁其實就是個神祕盒子得填上許多絕妙的點子 我曾經翻閱電影『凡夫俗子』的劇本電影裡的浪漫劇情讓我很感動, 激發了我我曾試著想要寫出與那部電影具有相同精神想法與情感的東西我喜歡蘋果電腦, 我是個蘋果迷蘋果電腦, 像這台Powerbook讓我倍感威脅, 好像在對我說你能寫出什麼配的上我的東西？我想自己被奴役了我常常會, 就像:老兄,我沒輒了, 我想不出來 關於事物的內容. 當你看到故事情節, 你會想故事不就是神祕盒子嗎？這是個非常根本的問題, 在電視圈, 第一幕就要夠吸引觀眾基本上就是丟出一個問題來吸引觀眾然後接著又會有另一個謎團, 不停地接踵而至像『星際大戰』裡有機器人, 他們遇見了個神祕女性那是誰, 我們不知道. 是神祕盒子！接著還有天行者, 他有了機器人, 然後我們就看到一幅立體影像你才發覺, 噢！這是個寓意她想要找到歐比王肯諾比. 他是她唯一的希望但那個歐比王到底是誰？ 神祕盒子！然後他又遇見了班肯諾比. 班肯諾比就是歐比王肯諾比老天啊！這讓我們...你們難道沒看過嗎？這部片很紅耶 我覺得神祕盒子有某種力量驅動著我有些事像神祕與想像都其實蘊含意義有目的性的去做而不僅僅只是參與而已像是電影『大白鯊』裡的鯊魚如果史匹柏的機器鯊魚,布魯斯能動的話就不需要在遠處擺出嚇人的樣子, 也沒有太多鏡頭而在電影『異形』裡, 從未出現過異形的樣子: 太可怕了！甚至是在一部愛情喜劇電影『畢業生』記得他們正在約會那一幕嗎？他們坐在車裡, 周圍很吵雜, 所以他們把車頂拉起他們就坐在裡面,觀眾聽不到他們的談話, 什麼都聽不到但這卻是最浪漫的約會經典畫面, 你會愛這一幕是因為你聽不到所以這就是如此 所以就是這個概念- 將這個概念應用的稍為廣一點但神秘盒子的概念代表你將會得到, 而且後來真的成真了這在很多電影與故事都能印證例如,『E.T.』這部電影, 這部電影是關於一個外星人與小男孩相遇的故事對吧?但其實不是, 這部電影其實是關於離婚, 關於一個破碎家庭, 後來這個孩子無法找到生命出口的故事『終極警探』是部很瘋狂, 精彩有趣的動作冒險電影但他其實是在描述一名男子正處於離婚邊緣垂頭喪氣地跑到洛杉磯裡面有多精彩的畫面, 也許並不是史上最佳的場面, 但也很不錯了在真正好戲上場前, 該角色有約半小時的劇情鋪陳你會有期待感 當在看像電影『大白鯊』你會期待看到, 我們有畫面嗎?這些就是我們會記得, 並且期待在『大白鯊』裡看到的場面有一隻鯊魚, 她會被吃掉『大白鯊』這部電影其實是關於一名男子身上背負著家庭, 要在世界上找自己的定位以及他如何在新環境中使一切成功這是我最愛的一幕之一我們通常不會把這一幕與『大白鯊』聯想在一起但這真的很棒 過來, 親爸爸一下 為什麼 因為我需要 拜託, 『為什麼？因為我需要？』太棒了, 不是嗎？對吧！ 所以當你想到『大白鯊』這種就是對人物個性的描述這也就是藏在盒子裡的東西這就是為什麼當要做電影續集或重拍老片時他們都把重點擺錯不應該只是複製鯊魚或怪獸應該要帶進人物個性的部份加入真正重要的部份, 我是指好好審視內心找出屬於自己的那一塊因為最終神祕盒子其實就是我們每一個人 再來是分配. 什麼樣的神祕盒子比電影戲院更大？你走進電影院, 期待著看到精采絕倫的戲最棒的部份就是當燈光熄滅的那一刻那一刻你的興奮之情溢於言表通常電影開演, 然後有事件發生了然後你會:噢, 接著又有另一轉折, 你會：嗯..這時若是一部好片, 你會隨著電影心情上上下下因為你願意把自己投入在電影之中 對我來說這不管是在戲院, 電視 還是用iPod, 電腦或手機來看這很有趣. 我是個蘋果迷, 而有一天, 大該是約一年前一早我上網要看賈伯斯的演講我必看的. 然後他正在展示 Video iPod在他身後巨大的iPod正撥著什麼？『Lost檔案』! 我完全沒想到, 後來我發現這一切都是相互關連的就像我從科技得到的靈感, 運用在我致力的事物上然後我所做的用來幫助科技的販賣, 超不可思議的! 我原本要介紹其他的, 但還是跳過好了我要介紹跟上述沒有關係的東西是網路上的影片, 不知道你們有沒有看過6年前幾個有特效經驗的人做了這個, 重點是他們運用了他們所擁有的神祕盒子現在其實每個人都有我體認到我外公對我小時候的影響其實現在每一個人都能擁有你不需要有我的外公, 雖然你會希望你能有但我得告訴你們,這個傢伙用Quadra 950型的蘋果電腦畫素有點低用15年前便停止生產的無限軟體做出非常精采的畫面,就跟我在好萊塢看到的一樣 神祕力量最神奇的是你不知道接下來會發生什麼事現在民主社會裡, 各式媒體垂手可得我小時候很幸運可以得到資源,像這樣的情況現在都很普遍到處都有很棒機會每當我想到那些成功的電影工作者可能不會有出頭的機會或曾經一度默默無聞這是非常驚喜的改變 我以前演講上課的時候一定會跟那些寫作的學生說：就去寫, 把你的故事寫下來. 反正不用錢寫作並不需要獲得許可才能寫. 但現在我可以說『去拍屬於你自己的電影！』任何事情都無法阻擋你起身去行動, 運用科技不管是用租的還是買的任何方式都好, 只要是運用在所謂的『善良老百姓』的身上只有少數菁英分子掌控的國家並無法發揮良好效率的我覺得這真的很棒, 知道社會上充滿生機 當我製作『不可能任務三』時, 做了很多很棒的視覺特效是由ILM製作的, 非常的棒有點像是夢想成真電影裡有一系列的鏡頭像是我等一下播放的就是這個 很明顯, 我這個人超愛瘋狂的爆破大場面電影裡我最愛的特效畫面,待會我會播放讓你們看看這一幕是關於湯姆所飾演的主角剛醒來, 昏昏的非常瘋狂, 他醒來拿起他的槍抵住他的鼻子, 將一粒小膠囊射入他的腦袋那膠囊將會置他於死, 就像壞人通常會做的事 早安 當我們在拍攝這一場戲時,那位英國演員艾迪瑪森拿著槍, 大好人一個他一直拿著槍, 把槍抵住湯姆的鼻子, 然後湯姆的鼻子就受傷了我很早前就學到: 千萬不要傷到湯姆克魯斯的鼻子有三件事是絕對不能犯的, 第二件事就是不要傷到湯姆的鼻子所以艾迪拿著槍, 他是個很好的人他就是個非常貼心的英國男孩, 他會：『對不起, 我無意傷害你』但我們得拍好這場戲然後我發現我們必須調整, 因為出來的效果不佳然後我便開始回想當時我拿著外公送我的那台Super 8攝影機坐在房間裡時, 我會做些什麼然後我發現這根本不需要艾迪來拿著槍, 可以讓湯姆來拿著湯姆會知道該使多大的力, 就不會傷到他自己 所以我們把湯姆的手化妝成像是艾迪的手套上艾迪的袖子所以你們看到的那隻手－我再放一次不是艾迪的手, 而是湯姆的所以湯姆一人分飾兩角喔而且他還沒多要酬勞再看一次他醒來, 還很昏沉, 經歷許多折磨你們看湯姆的手, 是湯姆的手！所以...（掌聲）謝謝所以有時電影並不需要用到特別厲害的科技而神祕魔法盒, 為了向我外公致敬, 將永遠保持封存謝謝你們
