Talk	en	zh-tw
jackie_savitz_save_the_oceans_feed_the_world	You may be wondering why a marine biologist from Oceana would come here today to talk to you about world hunger. I'm here today because saving the oceans is more than an ecological desire. It's more than a thing we're doing because we want to create jobs for fishermen or preserve fishermen's jobs. It's more than an economic pursuit. Saving the oceans can feed the world. Let me show you how. As you know, there are already more than a billion hungry people on this planet. We're expecting that problem to get worse as world population grows to nine billion or 10 billion by midcentury, and we can expect to have greater pressure on our food resources. And this is a big concern, especially considering where we are now. Now we know that our arable land per capita is already on the decline in both developed and developing countries. We know that we're headed for climate change, which is going to change rainfall patterns, making some areas drier, as you can see in orange, and others wetter, in blue, causing droughts in our breadbaskets, in places like the Midwest and Central Europe, and floods in others. It's going to make it harder for the land to help us solve the hunger problem. And that's why the oceans need to be their most abundant, so that the oceans can provide us as much food as possible. And that's something the oceans have been doing for us for a long time. As far back as we can go, we've seen an increase in the amount of food we've been able to harvest from our oceans. It just seemed like it was continuing to increase, until about 1980, when we started to see a decline. You've heard of peak oil. Maybe this is peak fish. I hope not. I'm going to come back to that. But you can see about an 18-percent decline in the amount of fish we've gotten in our world catch since 1980. And this is a big problem. It's continuing. This red line is continuing to go down. But we know how to turn it around, and that's what I'm going to talk about today. We know how to turn that curve back upwards. This doesn't have to be peak fish. If we do a few simple things in targeted places, we can bring our fisheries back and use them to feed people. First we want to know where the fish are, so let's look where the fish are. It turns out the fish, conveniently, are located for the most part in our coastal areas of the countries, in coastal zones, and these are areas that national jurisdictions have control over, and they can manage their fisheries in these coastal areas. Coastal countries tend to have jurisdictions that go out about 200 nautical miles, in areas that are called exclusive economic zones, and this is a good thing that they can control their fisheries in these areas, because the high seas, which are the darker areas on this map, the high seas, it's a lot harder to control things, because it has to be done internationally. You get into international agreements, and if any of you are tracking the climate change agreement, you know this can be a very slow, frustrating, tedious process. And so controlling things nationally is a great thing to be able to do. How many fish are actually in these coastal areas compared to the high seas? Well, you can see here about seven times as many fish in the coastal areas than there are in the high seas, so this is a perfect place for us to be focusing, because we can actually get a lot done. We can restore a lot of our fisheries if we focus in these coastal areas. But how many of these countries do we have to work in? There's something like 80 coastal countries. Do we have to fix fisheries management in all of those countries? So we asked ourselves, how many countries do we need to focus on, keeping in mind that the European Union conveniently manages its fisheries through a common fisheries policy? So if we got good fisheries management in the European Union and, say, nine other countries, how much of our fisheries would we be covering? Turns out, European Union plus nine countries covers about two thirds of the world's fish catch. If we took it up to 24 countries plus the European Union, we would up to 90 percent, almost all of the world's fish catch. So we think we can work in a limited number of places to make the fisheries come back. But what do we have to do in these places? Well, based on our work in the United States and elsewhere, we know that there are three key things we have to do to bring fisheries back, and they are: We need to set quotas or limits on how much we take; we need to reduce bycatch, which is the accidental catching and killing of fish that we're not targeting, and it's very wasteful; and three, we need to protect habitats, the nursery areas, the spawning areas that these fish need to grow and reproduce successfully so that they can rebuild their populations. If we do those three things, we  know the fisheries will come back. How do we know? We know because we've seen it happening in a lot of different places. This is a slide that shows the herring population in Norway that was crashing since the 1950s. It was coming down, and when Norway set limits, or quotas, on its fishery, what happens? The fishery comes back. This is another example, also happens to be from Norway, of the Norwegian Arctic cod. Same deal. The fishery is crashing. They set limits on discards. Discards are these fish they weren't targeting and they get thrown overboard wastefully. When they set the discard limit, the fishery came back. And it's not just in Norway. We've seen this happening in countries all around the world, time and time again. When these countries step in and they put in sustainable fisheries management policies, the fisheries, which are always crashing, it seems, are starting to come back. So there's a lot of promise here. What does this mean for the world fish catch? This means that if we take that fishery catch that's on the decline and we could turn it upwards, we could increase it up to 100 million metric tons per year. So we didn't have peak fish yet. We still have an opportunity to not only bring the fish back but to actually get more fish that can feed more people than we currently are now. How many more? Right about now, we can feed about 450 million people a fish meal a day based on the current world fish catch, which, of course, you know is going down, so that number will go down over time if we don't fix it, but if we put fishery management practices like the ones I've described in place in 10 to 25 countries, we could bring that number up and feed as many as 700 million people a year a healthy fish meal. We should obviously do this just because it's a good thing to deal with the hunger problem, but it's also cost-effective. It turns out fish is the most cost-effective protein on the planet. If you look at how much fish protein you get per dollar invested compared to all of the other animal proteins, obviously, fish is a good business decision. It also doesn't need a lot of land, something that's in short supply, compared to other protein sources. And it doesn't need a lot of fresh water. It uses a lot less fresh water than, for example, cattle, where you have to irrigate a field so that you can grow the food to graze the cattle. It also has a very low carbon footprint. It has a little bit of a carbon footprint because we do have to get out and catch the fish. It takes a little bit of fuel, but as you know, agriculture can have a carbon footprint, and fish has a much smaller one, so it's less polluting. It's already a big part of our diet, but it can be a bigger part of our diet, which is a good thing, because we know that it's healthy for us. It can reduce our risks of cancer, heart disease and obesity. In fact, our CEO Andy Sharpless, who is the originator of this concept, actually, he likes to say fish is the perfect protein. Andy also talks about the fact that our ocean conservation movement really grew out of the land conservation movement, and in land conservation, we have this problem where biodiversity is at war with food production. You have to cut down the biodiverse forest if you want to get the field to grow the corn to feed people with, and so there's a constant push-pull there. There's a constant tough decision that has to be made between two very important things: maintaining biodiversity and feeding people. But in the oceans, we don't have that war. In the oceans, biodiversity is not at war with abundance. In fact, they're aligned. When we do things that produce biodiversity, we actually get more abundance, and that's important so that we can feed people. Now, there's a catch. Didn't anyone get that? (Laughter) Illegal fishing. Illegal fishing undermines the type of sustainable fisheries management I'm talking about. It can be when you catch fish using gears that have been prohibited, when you fish in places where you're not supposed to fish, you catch fish that are the wrong size or the wrong species. Illegal fishing cheats the consumer and it also cheats honest fishermen, and it needs to stop. The way illegal fish get into our  market is through seafood fraud. You might have heard about this. It's when fish are labeled as something they're not. Think about the last time you had fish. What were you eating? Are you sure that's what it was? Because we tested 1,300 different fish samples and about a third of them were not what they were labeled to be. Snappers, nine out of 10 snappers were not snapper. Fifty-nine percent of the tuna we tested was mislabeled. And red snapper, we tested 120 samples, and only seven of them were really red snapper, so good luck finding a red snapper. Seafood has a really complex supply chain, and at every step in this supply chain, there's an opportunity for seafood fraud, unless we have traceability. Traceability is a way where the seafood industry can track the seafood from the boat to the plate to make sure that the consumer can then find out where their seafood came from. This is a really important thing. It's being done by some in the industry, but not enough, so we're pushing a law in Congress called the SAFE Seafood Act, and I'm very excited today to announce the release of a chef's petition, where 450 chefs have signed a petition calling on Congress to support the SAFE Seafood Act. It has a lot of celebrity chefs you may know — Anthony Bourdain, Mario Batali, Barton Seaver and others — and they've signed it because they believe that people have a right to know about what they're eating. (Applause) Fishermen like it too, so there's a good chance we can get the kind of support we need to get this bill through, and it comes at a critical time, because this is the way we stop seafood fraud, this is the way we curb illegal fishing, and this is the way we make sure that quotas, habitat protection, and bycatch reductions can do the jobs they can do. We know that we can manage our fisheries sustainably. We know that we can produce healthy meals for hundreds of millions of people that don't use the land, that don't use much water, have a low carbon footprint, and are cost-effective. We know that saving the oceans can feed the world, and we need to start now. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)	你也許正在猜想：為什麼一個來自海洋保育組織 (Oceana) 的海洋生物學家今天會來到這裡跟你們談有關世界飢餓的議題？我今天在這裡是因為拯救海洋不只是生態上的需要，而是比我們做的事情還要更進一步，因為我們想要幫漁民創造工作，或者說是保住他們的飯碗。拯救海洋也不只是追求經濟而已。拯救海洋可以讓全世界的人有東西吃，我來告訴你們如何做得到。 如各位所知，這個星球上已經有超過10億人在挨餓，我們預期這個情況會變得更糟，當世界總人口數在21世紀中成長到90億人或100億人時，我們可以預見未來食物供應的壓力會更加沉重。這是很大的問題，尤其是考量到我們的現況，我們都知道現在每人的可耕地面積一直在減少，在已開發、開發中的國家都一樣。我們知道世界正面臨氣候變遷，這改變了降雨的型態，使得某些地方更乾燥，像是橘色標示處，而其他地方卻更潮溼，就是藍色標示處，造成我們的小麥產區發生旱災，像是美國中西部與中歐等地區，而其他地方則出現水災。這會使得土地越來越無法幫我們解決飢餓問題，那就是海洋需要維持多產豐富的原因，如此一來海洋就能提供我們大量的食物。 那就是海洋長久以來一直在幫我們做的事情。我們越往回追溯，就可以發現從海洋裡捕獲的食物數量增加，捕獲量看起來持續增加，直到1980年左右，我們才開始看到捕獲量減少。你們都聽過石油高峰，也許這個就是漁獲高峰，但我希望不是，我等一下會回來說明這點。你可以看到從1980年以後，全世界的漁獲量大概下降了18%，這是很嚴重的問題，而且漁獲不停在減少，這條紅線持續往下降。 不過我們知道該如何讓它回升，那就是今天我要跟大家談的東西，我們知道如何讓這條線回升，不一定得要達到漁獲高峰。如果我們在特定的地方做到簡單的幾件事，就可以恢復漁場，並且養活大家。 首先我們要知道哪裡有魚群棲息，我們來看看魚群的棲息地。很輕易地就能發現魚群大部分棲息在臨海諸國的海岸區，在海岸帶，而這些區域是國家的管轄範圍，這些國家可以管制這些海岸區的漁場。這些臨海諸國往往擁有200海里水域的管轄權，這些區域又叫做專屬經濟區，可以管制這些水域的漁場是件好事。因為在公海上，就是在地圖上這些暗色區塊，管控公海會有一堆麻煩事，因為那必須透過各國同意。你得要達成國際協議，如果在座有人追蹤氣候變遷協議，就會知道國際協議過程非常慢，而且惱人、乏味。因此能在一國之內管理事物是件很棒的事情。 相較於公海裡，到底有多少魚棲息在海岸區呢？你可以看到這裡，海岸區的魚群比公海裡的還多七倍，所以這是我們可以著重的絕佳地點，因為我們真的能完成許多事。要是我們著重在這些海岸區，就能回復許多漁場的場量。 但是我們得在多少國家裡工作呢？估計大概有80個濱海國家吧！我們得整頓每一個國家的漁業管理嗎？因此我們自問：需要著重幾個國家呢？要記得，歐盟只透過一個共同的漁場政策，就輕鬆地管理好它的漁場。假使我們有很好的漁場管理政策，在歐盟、還有假設其他九個國家都實施，我們會涵蓋世界多大面積的漁場呢？歐盟加上九個國家的結果是涵蓋世界上三分之二的漁獲。 假若我們提高到有24個臨海國家再加上整個歐盟的話，我們的漁獲量就能達到90％，幾乎就是全世界的漁獲量了。因此我們覺得只要在少數的幾個國家做好事情，就能讓全球的漁場產量恢復。但是我們必須在這些地方做些甚麼事呢？依據我們在美國和其他地方的經驗得知，我們必須做好三件重要事情，才能把漁場恢復回來，那就是我們必須訂出可捕捉漁獲量的配額或限額、還有我們必須減少混獲量，這些不是我們預期要捕捉、殺死的漁獲，這是非常浪費的事情。第三 ，我們必須保護棲息地，像是孵育場、產卵區，這些魚需要能順利地成長與繁殖才能恢復數量。如果我們做到這三件事情，漁場就會回復生機。 我們怎麼知道呢？因為我們已經在很多地方看到這事情不斷發生。這張投影片顯示挪威的鯡魚數量從1950年以來持續大量減少，數量不斷驟減，等到挪威設定漁場限額或配額，你猜怎麼著？漁場的產量恢復了。還有另一個案例也是發生在挪威，有關於挪威的北極鱈魚，同樣的狀況，漁場的漁獲持續大量減少，因此他們設定扔棄漁獲的限額。業者會扔棄不是他們要的魚種，浪費地將那些魚扔棄在甲板上。當挪威設定了扔棄的限額，漁場的生機回復了。這不只有在挪威，我們已經看到這種事情不停地發生在全世界各個國家中。當這些國家加入我們，並提出永續漁場管理政策，產量一直大量下降的漁場看起來開始回復生機了，因此有很多成功的機會。 這對世界上的漁業來說代表什麼？這代表假使我們管理那些漁獲量下降的漁場，我們可以扭轉情況，讓每年漁獲量增加高達一億噸。所以說我們還不曾有過漁獲高峰，我們仍有機會，不只是把魚群帶回來，並且確實能得到更多的漁獲，餵養更多人口，比目前供給的人數還多。能多餵飽多少人呢？以現在來說，我們有能力供養大概四億五千萬人一天一餐魚肉，依據當下世界的捕魚量而言，當然你也知道捕魚量一直減少，所以如果不改善，餵養的人口數會越來越少。但是如果我們採取漁場管理措施，像我剛才提到在10到25個國家中來做，我們就有機會增加捕獲量，並且讓七億人一整年都有一餐健康的魚肉。 顯然我們應該這麼做，因為這是可以解決飢餓問題的好事，而且也符合成本效益。因為魚肉是地球上最符合成本效益的蛋白質。假如你衡量花在魚肉上每一塊錢所得到的蛋白質，相較於所有地球上其他的動物來說，顯然，魚肉是最精明的決定。養魚也不需要很多土地，土地現在已經不夠用了，這是相較於其他蛋白質來源的好處。養魚也不需要用到很多淡水，養魚需要的淡水較少，相較之下養牛，你必須灌溉土地才有草料用來養牛。養魚產生的碳足跡也很少，只會有一點點碳足跡，因為我們必須出門去捕魚，那要用到一點燃料；如你所知，農業也有碳足跡，而漁業產生的碳足跡少很多，所以比較不會有汙染。在我們的飲食裡，魚肉占了很大一部分，不過還能更多，這是件好事，因為我們知道魚肉有益健康，可以降低我們癌症、心臟病和肥胖的風險。事實上我們團體的執行長安迪‧夏普勒斯 (Andy Sharpless)是這個概念的發起人，他很愛說魚肉是最完美的蛋白質。安迪還說海洋保育運動其實是從土地保育運動發展而來，在土地保育中，我們有生物多樣性與食物生產之間的兩難，假使你想要取得土地的話，你就必須砍掉生態豐富多樣的森林，把土地拿來種玉米餵養人口，因此這兩者不斷在拉扯。一直以來，我們都必須在兩件重要的事情上做出困難的抉擇，那就是維持生態多樣性或者是餵飽人口。不過在海洋裡，我們沒有這樣的衝突，在海洋裡，生態多樣性與豐富多產並非勢不兩立。事實上這兩者相輔相成。當我們做的事增加了生物多樣性，同時也會得到更多的漁獲，重要的是這樣一來我們就可以餵飽大家。 這裡有個「潛」在的問題。 沒人發現這雙關嗎？（笑聲） 非法捕撈。非法捕撈會逐漸危害我正在談的永續漁場管理，可能是當你捕魚時用了禁用的設備，或是當你在不對的地方捕魚，就會捕到尺寸或種類錯誤的漁獲。非法捕撈欺瞞了消費者以及誠實的漁民，因此應該禁止非法捕撈。非法捕撈流入我們市場的作法就是透過海產詐欺。你也許已經聽說過了，就是將魚肉標示為其他的魚種。回想上一次你吃的魚肉，是什麼魚呢？你確定那就是魚的原貌嗎？因為我們測試了1,300個不一樣的魚肉樣本，大概有三分之一並不是標籤上標示的魚種。以真鯛來說，十個裡面有九個並不是真鯛；我們測試的鮪魚之中，有59%標示不實。我們測試了120個紅鯛，之中只有七個是真的紅鯛，所以祝你幸運找到貨真價實的紅鯛！ 海鮮的供應鏈非常複雜，在這個供應鏈的每一個環節都有機會發生海產詐欺，除非我們有追蹤機制。追蹤機制能讓海鮮產業追查海鮮從擺上餐盤到進入漁船的記錄，確保消費者之後可以找出他們的海鮮來自何方。 這是很重要的事情，在這個行業裡已經有少數人在做，但還不夠，我們計畫在國會中推動「安全海鮮法案」。我非常興奮今天在這裡宣布主廚的請願書，有450位主廚已經簽了請願書來籲請國會支持「安全海鮮法案」。其中有很多你也許聽過的名廚，像是安東尼‧波登 (Anthony Bourdain)、馬里歐‧貝特里 (Mario Batali)、巴頓‧席佛 (Barton Seaver) 等人，而他們簽署請願書是因為他們相信民眾有權利知道他們吃的是甚麼東西。 （掌聲） 漁民也支持這項請願，所以我們有很大的機會能得到充分支持讓法案通過。這是重要時刻，因為這是我們阻擋海鮮詐欺的辦法、是我們遏止非法捕撈的方法，還有這也是我們確保配額、棲地保護與減少混獲措施能確實達到效益的方法。 我們知道我們能永續管理漁場。我們知道我們可以生產健康的魚肉給上億人享用，而且不會使用土地和太多水，只會產生很少的碳足跡，並符合成本效益。我們明白拯救海洋可以餵飽世界，我們必須立即行動。 （掌聲） 謝謝大家！（掌聲）
