Talk	en	zh-tw
jack_choi_on_the_virtual_dissection_table	"You know, cadaver dissection is the traditional way of learning human anatomy. For students, it's quite an experience, but for a school, it could be very difficult or expensive to maintain. So we learned the majority of anatomic classes taught, they do not have a cadaver dissection lab. Maybe those reasons, or depending on where you are, cadavers may not be easily available. So to address this, we developed with a Dr. Brown in Stanford: virtual dissection table. So we call this Anatomage Table. So with this Anatomage Table, students can experience the dissection without a human cadaver. And the table form is important, and since it's touch-interactive, just like the way they do dissections in the lab, or furthermore just the way a surgeon operates on a patient you can literally interact with your table. Our digital body is one-to-one life size, so this is exactly the way students will see the real anatomy. I'm going to do some demonstrations. As you can see, I use my finger to interact with my digital body. I'm going to do some cuts. I can cut any way I want to, so I cut right here. Then it's going to show inside. And I can change my cut to see different parts. Maybe I can cut there, see the brain, and I can change my cut. You can see some internal organs. So we call this the slicer mode. OK, I'm going to do another cut. Right there. This shows a lot of internal structures. So if I want to see the back side, I can flip and see from behind. Like this. So if these images are uncomfortable to you or disturbing to you, that means we did the right job. So our doctors said these are eye candies. So instead of just butchering the body, I'd like to do more clinically meaningful dissections. What I'm going to do is I'm going to peel off all the skin, muscles and bones, just to see a few internal organs. Right here. Let's say I'm going to cut the liver right here. OK. Let's say I'm interested in looking at the heart. I'm going to do some surgery here. I'm going to cut some veins, arteries. Oops! ... You don't want to hear ""oops"" in real surgery. (Laughter) But fortunately, our digital man has ""undo."" (Laughter) Okay. All right then. Let me zoom in. I'm going to make a cut right there. And then you can see the inside of the heart. You can see the atrium and the ventricles, how blood flows to our arteries and veins. Just like this, students can isolate anybody and dissect any way you want to. It doesn't have to be always dissection. Since it's digital, we can do reverse dissection. So let me show you, I'm going to start with the skeletal structure, and I can add a few internal organs. Yep. Maybe I can add quickly this way. And I can build muscles gradually, just like that. We can see tendons and muscles. Wish I could build my muscle this fast. (Laughter) And this is another way to learn anatomy. Another thing I can show you is, more often than not, doctors get to meet patients in X-ray form. So, Anatomage Table shows exactly how the anatomy will appear in X-ray. You can also interact with your X-ray, and also if you want, you can compare with how anatomy would appear in X-ray, too. So when you are done, just bring back the body and then it's ready for another session. It looks like our table also can transform gender, too. It's a female now. So this is Anatomage Table. Thank you. (Applause)"	你們知道的，解剖屍體是學習人體解剖學的傳統方法。對學生來說，這是很特別的經驗，但對學校來說，這可以是很困難且很昂貴的。所以大部份的解剖學課程當中，是沒有真正解剖屍體的。有可能是因為我剛剛說的原因，或是看你在哪裡，屍體可能不是那麼容易取得。為了解決這個問題，我們和史丹佛的布朗博士一起研發了虛擬解剖桌。所以我們把這個叫作解剖桌。有了這個解剖桌，學生可以在沒有屍體的狀況下，體驗解剖。桌子的形式是很重要的，因為它是觸感互動的，就跟在解剖實驗室裡面的一樣，或更進一步說，跟真正對病患作手術時一樣，你可以跟桌子互動。我們的數位人體跟實際大小一樣，所以這跟學生看真正的解剖是一模一樣的。我要來做一些示範。你們可以看到的，我用我的手指頭來跟這個數位人體互動。我要來做一些切割。我可以在任何地方切，像是這裡。然後它會呈現出裡面的樣子。我可以在不同的地方做切割。或許我可以切這裡，看看腦袋，然後我也可以作更改。你們可以看到一些內在器官。所以我們叫這個切割模式。好，我要來再下一刀。就在這裡。這會讓我們看到很多內在的結構。所以如果我想要看後面，我可以把它翻轉過來，就可以從後面看。像是這樣。所以如果這些影像對你們來說有點不舒服或有點困擾，那表示我們做得很好。我們的醫生說這是視覺獎勵。所以除了只是對身體做切割，我想要做一些在臨床上更有意義的解剖。我接下來要做的是將全部的皮、肌肉、骨頭撕下，這樣可以看到內在器官。在這裡。假設我要在這裡切開肝臟。好。假設我想要看心臟。我要在這做一些手術。我要切開一些血管、動脈。哎呀！在真正的手術當中絕對不想要聽到「哎呀！」（笑聲）幸運的是，我們的數位人可以「復原」。（笑聲）好。可以。放大一些。我要在這裡下刀。然後你們可以看到心臟裡面。你們可以看到心房和心室，可以看到血液如何流到動脈和血管。就像這樣，學生可以分離任何部位並以各種方式作解剖。也不一定要是解剖。因為是數位的，我們可以還原解剖。讓我示範你們看，我要從骨骼結構開始，然後我可以加一些內臟。好。或許我可以更快的加上去。我也可以慢慢加肌肉，就像這樣。我們可以看到肌腱和肌肉。真希望我也可以這麼快長出肌肉。（笑聲）這是另外一個學習解剖學的方式。另外一個我可以給你們看的是，很多時候，醫生會需要看到病人的X光片。所以，解剖桌可以顯示這樣的身體在X光片上會是怎麼樣的。你也可以跟X光片互動，然後如果你想要的話，你也可以比較身體在X光片的樣子。當你結束的時候，只要把這個「身體」拿回來，「身體」就可以供下次使用。我們的桌子，也可以改變性別。現在是女生。這就是解剖桌。謝謝。（掌聲）
