Talk	en	zh-tw
jack_horner_shape_shifting_dinosaurs	"Shall I ask for a show of hands or a clapping of people in different generations? I'm interested in how many are three to 12 years old. (Laughter) None, huh? (Laughter) All right. I'm going to talk about dinosaurs. Do you remember dinosaurs when you were that age? (Applause) Dinosaurs are kind of funny, you know. (Laughter) We're going to kind of go in a different direction right now. I hope you all realize that. So I'll just give you my message up front: Try not to go extinct. (Laughter) That's it. (Laughter) People ask me a lot — in fact, one of the most asked questions I get is, why do children like dinosaurs so much? What's the fascination? And I usually just say, ""Well, dinosaurs were big, different and gone."" They're all gone. Well that's not true, but we'll get to the goose in a minute. So that's sort of the theme: big, different and gone. The title of my talk: Shape-shifting Dinosaurs: The cause of a premature extinction. Now I assume that we remember dinosaurs. And there's lots of different shapes. Lots of different kinds. A long time ago, back in the early 1900s, museums were out looking for dinosaurs. They went out and gathered them up. And this is an interesting story. Every museum wanted a little bigger or better one than anybody else had. So if the museum in Toronto went out and collected a Tyrannosaur, a big one, then the museum in Ottawa wanted a bigger one, and a better one. And that happened for all museums. So everyone was out looking for all these bigger and better dinosaurs. And this was in the early 1900s. By about 1970, some scientists were sitting around and they thought, ""What in the world — Look at these dinosaurs, they're all big. Where are all the little ones?"" (Laughter) And they thought about it and they even wrote papers about it: ""Where are the little dinosaurs?"" (Laughter) Well, go to a museum, you'll see, see how many baby dinosaurs there are. People assumed — and this was actually a problem — people assumed that if they had little dinosaurs, if they had juvenile dinosaurs, they'd be easy to identify. You'd have a big dinosaur and a littler dinosaur. (Laughter) But all they had were big dinosaurs. And it comes down to a couple of things. First off, scientists have egos, and scientists like to name dinosaurs. They like to name anything. Everybody likes to have their own animal that they named. (Laughter) And so every time they found something that looked a little different, they named it something different. And what happened, of course, is we ended up with a whole bunch of different dinosaurs. In 1975, a light went on in somebody's head. Dr. Peter Dodson at the University of Pennsylvania actually realized that dinosaurs grew kind of like birds do, which is different than the way reptiles grow. And in fact, he used the cassowary as an example. And it's kind of cool — if you look at the cassowary, or any of the birds that have crests on their heads, they grow to about 80 percent adult size before the crest starts to grow. Now think about that. They're basically retaining their juvenile characteristics very late in what we call ontogeny. So allometric cranial ontogeny is relative skull growth. So you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you didn't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary, you would think they were two different animals. So this was a problem, and Peter Dodson pointed this out using some duck-billed dinosaurs then called Hypacrosaurus. And he showed that if you were to take a baby and an adult and make an average of what it should look like, if it grew in sort of a linear fashion, it would have a crest about half the size of the adult. But the actual subadult at 65 percent had no crest at all. So this was interesting. So this is where people went astray again. I mean, if they'd have just taken that, taken Peter Dodson's work, and gone on with that, then we would have a lot less dinosaurs than we have. But scientists have egos; they like to name things. And so they went on naming dinosaurs because they were different. Now we have a way of actually testing to see whether a dinosaur, or any animal, is a young one or an older one. And that's by actually cutting into their bones. But cutting into the bones of a dinosaur is hard to do, as you can imagine, because in museums, bones are precious. You go into a museum, and they take really good care of them. They put them in foam, little containers. They're very well taken care of. They don't like it if you come in and want to saw them open and look inside. (Laughter) So they don't normally let you do that. (Laughter) But I have a museum and I collect dinosaurs and I can saw mine open. So that's what I do. (Applause) So if you cut open a little dinosaur, it's very spongy inside, like A. And if you cut into an older dinosaur, it's very massive. You can tell it's mature bone. So it's real easy to tell them apart. So what I want to do is show you these. In North America in the northern plains of the United States and the southern plains of Alberta and Saskatchewan, there's this unit of rock called the Hell Creek Formation that produces the last dinosaurs that lived on Earth. And there are 12 of them that everyone recognizes — I mean the 12 primary dinosaurs that went extinct. And so we will evaluate them. And that's sort of what I've been doing. So my students, my staff, we've been cutting them open. Now as you can imagine, cutting open a leg bone is one thing, but when you go to a museum and say, ""You don't mind if I cut open your dinosaur's skull, do you?"" they say, ""Go away."" (Laughter) So here are 12 dinosaurs. And we want to look at these three first. So these are dinosaurs that are called Pachycephalosaurus. And everybody knows that these three animals are related. And the assumption is that they're related like cousins or whatever. But no one ever considered that they might be more closely related. In other words, people looked at them and they saw the differences. And you all know that if you are going to determine whether you're related to your brother or your sister, you can't do it by looking at differences. You can only determine relatedness by looking for similarities. So people were looking at these and they were talking about how different they are. Pachycephalosaurus has a big, thick dome on its head, and it's got some little bumps on the back of its head, and it's got a bunch of gnarly things on the end of its nose. And then Stygimoloch, another dinosaur from the same age, lived at the same time, has spikes sticking out the back of its head. It's got a little, tiny dome, and it's got a bunch of gnarly stuff on its nose. And then there's this thing called Dracorex hogwartsia. Guess where that came from? Dragon. So here's a dinosaur that has spikes sticking out of its head, no dome and gnarly stuff on its nose. Nobody noticed the gnarly stuff sort of looked alike. But they did look at these three and they said, ""These are three different dinosaurs, and Dracorex is probably the most primitive of them. And the other one is more primitive than the other."" It's unclear to me how they actually sorted these three of them out. But if you line them up, if you just take those three skulls and just line them up, they line up like this. Dracorex is the littlest one, Stygimoloch is the middle-size one, Pachycephalosaurus is the largest one. And one would think, that should give me a clue. (Laughter) But it didn't give them a clue. (Laughter) Because, well we know why. Scientists like to name things. So if we cut open Dracorex — I cut open our Dracorex — and look, it was spongy inside, really spongy inside. I mean, it is a juvenile and it's growing really fast. So it is going to get bigger. If you cut open Stygimoloch, it is doing the same thing. The dome, that little dome, is growing really fast. It's inflating very fast. What's interesting is the spike on the back of the Dracorex was growing very fast as well. The spikes on the back of the Stygimoloch are actually resorbing, which means they're getting smaller as that dome is getting bigger. And if we look at Pachycephalosaurus, Pachycephalosaurus has a solid dome and its little bumps on the back of its head were also resorbing. So just with these three dinosaurs, as a scientist, we can easily hypothesize that it is just a growth series of the same animal. Which of course means that Stygimoloch and Dracorex are extinct. (Laughter) OK. (Laughter) Which of course means we have 10 primary dinosaurs to deal with. So a colleague of mine at Berkeley — he and I were looking at Triceratops. And before the year 2000 — now remember, Triceratops was first found in the 1800s — before 2000, no one had ever seen a juvenile Triceratops. There's a Triceratops in every museum in the world, but no one had ever collected a juvenile. And we know why, right? Because everybody wants to have a big one. So everyone had a big one. So we went out and collected a whole bunch of stuff and we found a whole bunch of little ones. They're everywhere, they're all over the place. So we have a whole bunch of them at our museum. (Laughter) And everybody says it's because I have a little museum. When you have a little museum, you have little dinosaurs. (Laughter) If you look at the Triceratops, you can see it's changing, it's shape-shifting. As the juveniles are growing up, their horns actually curve backwards. And then as they get older, the horns grow forward. And that's pretty cool. If you look along the edge of the frill, they have these little triangular bones that actually grow big as triangles and then they flatten against the frill pretty much like the spikes do on the Pachycephalosaurs. And then, because the juveniles are in my collection, I cut them open ... (Laughter) and look inside. And the little one is really spongy. And the middle-size one is really spongy. But what was interesting was the adult Triceratops was also spongy. And this is a skull that is two meters long. It's a big skull. But there's another dinosaur that is found in this formation that looks like a Triceratops, except it's bigger, and it's called Torosaurus. And Torosaurus, when we cut into it, has mature bone. But it's got these big holes in its shield. And everybody says, ""A Triceratops and a Torosaurus can't possibly be the same animal because one of them's bigger than the other one."" (Laughter) ""And it has holes in its frill."" And I said, ""Well do we have any juvenile Torosauruses?"" And they said, ""Well, no, but it has holes in its frill."" So one of my graduate students, John Scannella, looked through our whole collection and he actually discovered that the hole starting to form in Triceratops and, of course it's open, in Torosaurus — so he found the transitional ones between Triceratops and Torosaurus, which was pretty cool. So now we know that Torosaurus is actually a grown-up Triceratops. Now when we name dinosaurs, when we name anything, the original name gets to stick and the second name is thrown out. So Torosaurus is extinct. Triceratops, if you've heard the news, a lot of the newscasters got it all wrong. They thought Torosaurus should be kept and Triceratops thrown out, but that's not going to happen. (Laughter) All right, so we can do this with a bunch of dinosaurs. I mean, here's Edmontosaurus and Anatotitan. Anatotitan: giant duck. It's a giant duck-bill dinosaur. Here's another one. So we look at the bone histology. The bone histology tells us that Edmontosaurus is a juvenile, or at least a subadult, and the other one is an adult, and we have an ontogeny. And we get rid of Anatotitan. So we can just keep doing this. And the last one is T. Rex. So there's these two dinosaurs, T. Rex and Nanotyrannus. (Laughter) Again, it makes you wonder. (Laughter) But they had a good question. They were looking at them and they said, ""One's got 17 teeth, and the biggest one's got 12 teeth. And that doesn't make any sense at all, because we don't know of any dinosaurs that gain teeth as they get older. So it must be true — they must be different."" So we cut into them. And sure enough, Nanotyrannus has juvenile bone and the bigger one has more mature bone. It looks like it could still get bigger. And at the Museum of the Rockies where we work, I have four T. rexes, so I can cut a whole bunch of them. But I didn't have to cut any of them really, because I just lined up their jaws and it turned out the biggest one had 12 teeth and the next smallest one had 13 and the next smallest had 14. And of course, Nano has 17. And we just went out and looked at other people's collections and we found one that has sort of 15 teeth. So again, real easy to say that Tyrannosaurus ontogeny included Nanotyrannus, and therefore we can take out another dinosaur. (Laughter) So when it comes down to our end Cretaceous, we have seven left. And that's a good number. That's a good number to go extinct, I think. Now as you can imagine, this is not very popular with fourth-graders. (Laughter) Fourth-graders love their dinosaurs, they memorize them. And they're not happy with this. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause)"	可以請各位舉手或是鼓掌讓我知道各位的年齡嗎？我想知道在座有多少人年齡在3到12歲？(笑聲)一個也沒有 嗯？好吧今天我的主題是恐龍各位還記得恐龍嗎？ 你們3到12歲時很愛的？(掌聲)話說恐龍還蠻搞笑的 (笑聲) 今天我切入的角度會不太一樣希望各位已經感覺到了那我就開門見山地講明主旨了請不要滅絕(笑聲)完了 (笑聲) 人們常常問我事實上 我最常遇到的問題是爲什麽孩子們這麼喜歡恐龍？恐龍的魅力在哪？我通常只會說：「呃 恐龍很大隻很特別、而且已經消失了」全部消失了嗯，也不盡然如此但我們等一下再來講這個所以重點差不多就是這樣大隻、特別、消失了我演講的題目是：變形的恐龍過早滅絕的原因 現在我假設各位都記得恐龍恐龍有各種體型許多種類很久以前1900年代早期時博物館競相尋找恐龍他們四處尋找、搜集恐龍整件事情的發展非常有趣每個博物館都想要更大、更好的恐龍把其他博物館比下去所以如果多倫多的博物館蒐集到一副暴龍的骸骨，大隻的暴龍那麼渥太華的博物館就想要一隻更大更好的暴龍所有的博物館都打一樣的算盤所以每個博物館都出動要找更大更好的恐龍骸骨這是1900年代早期的事 到了大約1970年代某些科學家聚在一起開始思索：「搞什麼鬼？「看看這些恐龍「全都這麼大隻「小的恐龍哪去了？」他們想了又想甚至還寫論文探討「小型恐龍在哪兒？」(笑聲)去博物館看看吧看你找不找得到小恐龍人們假定─其實這樣是有問題的─不過人們假定如果有小型恐龍如果有年幼的恐龍很容易就可以認出來反正就是一隻大隻的和一隻小隻的但博物館收藏的都是大型恐龍 這顯示了幾件事第一：科學家都自視甚高而且喜歡替恐龍命名只要能被命名的他們都喜歡大家都希望有自己命名、專屬於自己的動物(笑聲)所以每次他們找到一個看起來不一樣的東西就會替它取一個不一樣的名字當然最後就變成我們有了一大群不同的恐龍 在1975年某人靈光一閃就是彼得‧德森一位賓州大學的博士發現恐龍成長的方式與鳥類有點相似而鳥類的成長方式與爬蟲類不同事實上他拿食火雞當例子還蠻酷的。如果你看食火雞或者其他頭上有冠的鳥類實際上牠們在長到成年身型的80%時頭上的冠才開始生長各位想想食火雞基本上長時間保留未成年的特徵直到個體發生階段的晚期所以異速頭顱個體發生就是頭蓋骨的相對生長所以各位可以看到如果你發現一隻只生長發育了80%的動物但你不知道牠會長成一隻食火雞你就會以為牠是別的動物 這就是問題所在彼得‧德森指出了這點他用的例子是某種鴨嘴恐龍當時被稱為亞冠龍他發現如果你用一隻幼年和一隻成年恐龍來計算這種恐龍在不同年齡的體型假設牠是以線性方式生長牠就會有頭冠頭冠大小約是成年恐龍的一半但是實際上未成年的恐龍只發育了65%的根本沒有頭冠所以這就有意思了這就是科學家的思路出錯的地方我是說 如果他們可以接受接受彼得‧道森的研究結論，然後繼續往下發展那麼我們的恐龍數目就會大大減少但是科學家自視甚高又喜歡替事物命名所以他們繼續給恐龍命名因為牠們看上去不一樣 不過呢，我們有方法可以確實測量檢查恐龍或任何動物是年幼的還是較年長的方法就是真的切骨見髓但是切開恐龍的骨頭是很困難的，各位想也知道因為對博物館而言恐龍骨頭很珍貴每個博物館都會非常小心地維護這些骨頭把骨頭放在小小的發泡容器中妥善收藏館方不會樂見你一進來就打算鋸開骨頭看內部(笑聲)所以他們通常不允許你這樣做但是我有一個博物館而且我也蒐集恐龍我可以鋸我自己的收藏我也這麼做了 (掌聲) 如果你切開小恐龍的骨頭骨頭裡面疏鬆如海綿 像圖A如果切開的骨頭是較年長恐龍裡面十分緊密一看就知道是成熟的骨頭所以要區分骨頭是很容易的現在讓各位看看這些東西在北美洲、美國的北美大平原和加拿大亞伯達省和薩斯喀徹溫省的南部平原上有一處岩石區被稱為地獄溪地層從這裡找到了最後存活在地球上的恐龍其中的12種是眾所周知的我指的是12種主要的恐龍後來都滅絕了因此我們測試這些恐龍這差不多就是我一直在從事的工作我的學生、我的員工一直在鋸恐龍骨頭各位一定可以想像切開腿骨是一回事但當你走進一間博物館說：「你們應該不介意「我切開貴館恐龍的頭骨吧？」館員會說：「滾開」(笑聲)這就是那12種恐龍我們先看這三種 這些恐龍被稱為腫頭龍大家都知道這三種恐龍是親戚我們假設牠們的血緣關係是類似堂兄弟之類的但沒有人想過牠們可能有更緊密的關係換句話說科學家觀察牠們 看到了不同之處大家都知道如果你要確定你跟你的兄弟姐妹有沒有血緣關係不能只根據你們的相異之處做判斷要確認血緣關係要從相似之處下手 因此人們看著這些恐龍時總是只注意牠們有多麼不同腫頭龍的頭上 有一個又大又厚的圓頂頭部背面有一些小的凸起物鼻子末端有一堆瘤狀物這是冥河龍 另一種恐龍跟腫頭龍生存的時代相同牠的頭部後面有棘突出頭上有個很小的圓頂而且鼻子上也有一堆瘤狀物然後這隻是名為龍王龍的傢伙霍格華茲猜猜牠的名字源自哪裡？龍這頭恐龍頭上有棘 沒有圓頂鼻子上有瘤狀物 沒人注意到這些瘤狀物有點相似但人們看著這三隻恐龍心裡想：「這是三種不同的恐龍「龍王龍也許是其中最原始的這隻比另一隻更早期一點」我不是很確定他們究竟是怎麼挑出這三種恐龍的但如果你把牠們一字排開把牠們的頭骨排成一列排起來會像這樣龍王龍的最小冥河龍在中間腫頭龍是最大的你們可能認為這應該很明顯了吧(笑聲)但科學家什麼都沒察覺我們都知道為什麼因為科學家喜歡替東西命名 所以如果我們對龍王龍下手把我們的龍王龍鋸開你看 骨頭裡面是海綿狀的非常明顯的海綿意思是說牠還年幼而且長得很快所以牠會長得更大如果你鋸開冥河龍也會發現一樣的事情那個小小的圓頂長得非常快迅速地膨脹有趣的是 龍王龍背上的棘也長得非常快冥河龍背上的棘其實在萎縮也就是越變越小而頭上的圓頂則越變越大如果我們看看腫頭龍牠頭上有堅硬的圓頂頭部背面的凸起物也在萎縮 因此只要看這三種恐龍科學家很容易就能夠做出假設牠們代表不同的成長階段其實都是同一種動物當然這就表示冥河龍和龍王龍都絕種了(笑聲)好吧當然這就表示我們有10種主要恐龍要對付 因此我在柏克萊的一位同事和我一起研究三觭龍2000年之前請記住三觭龍最初是在1800年代發現的在2000年之前 沒有人看過幼年的三觭龍全世界每座博物館都有一隻三觭龍但不曾有人找到幼年三觭龍過我們都知道為什麼，對吧？因為每個人都想要大隻的所以大家的都是大隻的我們去考古時找到一大堆東西一大堆小三觭龍的骸骨到處都是，遍佈整個區域因此我們博物館裡有一大堆(笑聲)大家都說這是因為我有一座小博物館當你有小博物館，你就會有小恐龍 (笑聲) 如果各位觀察三觭龍就會發現牠在改變 變形當幼年的個體長大時牠們的角會往後彎接著越長越大之後角會再往前彎還蠻酷的請各位看看頭骨的邊緣上面三角狀的小骨頭會長大變成三角形然後在邊緣扁下去變平就像剛剛講過的棘一樣長在腫頭龍背上的棘然後因為我有蒐集幼年三觭龍我就把牠們鋸開觀察內部小隻的恐龍骨頭裡面很像海綿中型的也很像海綿有趣的是成年的三觭龍 骨頭內部也像海綿這副頭蓋骨有兩公尺長是非常大的頭 但還有另一種恐龍樣子也長這樣長得像三觭龍 但是更大隻叫做牛角龍當我們把牛角龍切開時發現牠有成熟的骨頭不過牠的頭盾上有大洞大家都說三觭龍和牛角龍不可能是同一種動物因為牛角龍比三觭龍大(笑聲)頭盾上還有洞我說：「呃，那我們有幼年的牛角龍嗎？」他們回答：「嗯，沒有」「但是牠的頭盾上有洞」 因此我的一位研究生約翰‧史坎納拉研究了我們所有的蒐藏赫然發現這些洞的成形源自三觭龍當然在牛角龍頭上已經是完整的洞所以他發現的恐龍處於三觭龍和牛角龍之間的過渡時期還蠻酷的因此現在我們知道牛角龍其實是成年的三觭龍當我們在替恐龍命名或任何其他東西命名時第一個名字都會長存第二個名字都會被遺忘因此牛角龍也滅絕了如果你有看新聞，講到三觭龍時很多新聞記者根本大錯特錯他們認為應該保留牛角龍，剔除三觭龍但這是不可能發生的 (笑聲) 所以說 我們可以對許多恐龍做同樣的事像是這隻埃德蒙頓龍和大鴨龍大鴨龍：巨大的鴨子是一種大型的鴨嘴龍牠們是另一個例子我們以組織學的角度觀察骨頭骨骼組織學顯示埃德蒙頓龍是幼年恐龍或至少是未成年的另一隻則是成年恐龍個體發生歷程很完備因此大鴨龍也不存在了 我們一直重複這個過程到最後一種恐龍暴龍這裡有兩隻恐龍暴龍和矮暴龍(笑聲)又來了，真讓人疑惑(笑聲)但科學家問了個好問題他們觀察這兩隻恐龍說 小隻有17顆牙 大隻的有12顆牙這完全沒有道理因為我們從未發現有哪一種恐龍年紀越大 牙齒會越多因此事實擺在眼前牠們一定不一樣所以我們鋸開恐龍果真矮暴龍的骨頭是幼年的暴龍的骨頭較成熟似乎還可以長更大然後 在我們工作的洛磯山脈博物館有四隻暴龍我可以把牠們通通鋸開但實際上不用這麼做因為我只要把牠們的下巴排開就會發現 最大隻的有12顆牙第二大的有13顆牙第三大的有14顆牙當然 矮暴龍有17顆牙所以我們就去看其他人的蒐藏發現有一隻恐龍似乎有15顆牙因此很容易得到結論就是暴龍的個體發生歷程包括矮暴龍因此我們又要跟一種恐龍說拜拜了 (笑聲) 因此到白堊紀末期我們只剩七種恐龍很好的數字很適合絕種 我覺得啦各位可以想像國小四年級生肯定大失所望小四生很愛恐龍每一種都如數家珍聽到這個一定會很沮喪 (笑聲) 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
