Talk	en	zh-tw
jack_horner_building_a_dinosaur_from_a_chicken	"When I was growing up in Montana, I had two dreams. I wanted to be a paleontologist, a dinosaur paleontologist, and I wanted to have a pet dinosaur. And so that's what I've been striving for all of my life. I was very fortunate early in my career. I was fortunate in finding things. I wasn't very good at reading things. In fact, I don't read much of anything. I am extremely dyslexic, and so reading is the hardest thing I do. But instead, I go out and I find things. Then I just pick things up. I basically practice for finding money on the street. (Laughter) And I wander about the hills, and I have found a few things. And I have been fortunate enough to find things like the first eggs in the Western hemisphere and the first baby dinosaurs in nests, the first dinosaur embryos and massive accumulations of bones. And it happened to be at a time when people were just starting to begin to realize that dinosaurs weren't the big, stupid, green reptiles that people had thought for so many years. People were starting to get an idea that dinosaurs were special. And so, at that time, I was able to make some interesting hypotheses along with my colleagues. We were able to actually say that dinosaurs — based on the evidence we had — that dinosaurs built nests and lived in colonies and cared for their young, brought food to their babies and traveled in gigantic herds. So it was pretty interesting stuff. I have gone on to find more things and discover that dinosaurs really were very social. We have found a lot of evidence that dinosaurs changed from when they were juveniles to when they were adults. The appearance of them would have been different — which it is in all social animals. In social groups of animals, the juveniles always look different than the adults. The adults can recognize the juveniles; the juveniles can recognize the adults. And so we're making a better picture of what a dinosaur looks like. And they didn't just all chase Jeeps around. (Laughter) But it is that social thing that I guess attracted Michael Crichton. And in his book, he talked about the social animals. And then Steven Spielberg, of course, depicts these dinosaurs as being very social creatures. The theme of this story is building a dinosaur, and so we come to that part of ""Jurassic Park."" Michael Crichton really was one of the first people to talk about bringing dinosaurs back to life. You all know the story, right. I mean, I assume everyone here has seen ""Jurassic Park."" If you want to make a dinosaur, you go out, you find yourself a piece of petrified tree sap — otherwise known as amber — that has some blood-sucking insects in it, good ones, and you get your insect and you drill into it and you suck out some DNA, because obviously all insects that sucked blood in those days sucked dinosaur DNA out. And you take your DNA back to the laboratory and you clone it. And I guess you inject it into maybe an ostrich egg, or something like that, and then you wait, and, lo and behold, out pops a little baby dinosaur. And everybody's happy about that. (Laughter) And they're happy over and over again. They keep doing it; they just keep making these things. And then, then, then, and then ... Then the dinosaurs, being social, act out their socialness, and they get together, and they conspire. And, of course, that's what makes Steven Spielberg's movie — conspiring dinosaurs chasing people around. So I assume everybody knows that if you actually had a piece of amber and it had an insect in it, and you drilled into it, and you got something out of that insect, and you cloned it, and you did it over and over and over again, you'd have a room full of mosquitos. (Laughter) (Applause) And probably a whole bunch of trees as well. Now if you want dinosaur DNA, I say go to the dinosaur. So that's what we've done. Back in 1993 when the movie came out, we actually had a grant from the National Science Foundation to attempt to extract DNA from a dinosaur, and we chose the dinosaur on the left, a Tyrannosaurus rex, which was a very nice specimen. And one of my former doctoral students, Dr. Mary Schweitzer, actually had the background to do this sort of thing. And so she looked into the bone of this T. rex, one of the thigh bones, and she actually found some very interesting structures in there. They found these red circular-looking objects, and they looked, for all the world, like red blood cells. And they're in what appear to be the blood channels that go through the bone. And so she thought, well, what the heck. So she sampled some material out of it. Now it wasn't DNA; she didn't find DNA. But she did find heme, which is the biological foundation of hemoglobin. And that was really cool. That was interesting. That was — here we have 65-million-year-old heme. Well we tried and tried and we couldn't really get anything else out of it. So a few years went by, and then we started the Hell Creek Project. And the Hell Creek Project was this massive undertaking to get as many dinosaurs as we could possibly find, and hopefully find some dinosaurs that had more material in them. And out in eastern Montana there's a lot of space, a lot of badlands, and not very many people, and so you can go out there and find a lot of stuff. And we did find a lot of stuff. We found a lot of Tyrannosaurs, but we found one special Tyrannosaur, and we called it B-rex. And B-rex was found under a thousand cubic yards of rock. It wasn't a very complete T. rex, and it wasn't a very big T. rex, but it was a very special B-rex. And I and my colleagues cut into it, and we were able to determine, by looking at lines of arrested growth, some lines in it, that B-rex had died at the age of 16. We don't really know how long dinosaurs lived, because we haven't found the oldest one yet. But this one died at the age of 16. We gave samples to Mary Schweitzer, and she was actually able to determine that B-rex was a female based on medullary tissue found on the inside of the bone. Medullary tissue is the calcium build-up, the calcium storage basically, when an animal is pregnant, when a bird is pregnant. So here was the character that linked birds and dinosaurs. But Mary went further. She took the bone, and she dumped it into acid. Now we all know that bones are fossilized, and so if you dump it into acid, there shouldn't be anything left. But there was something left. There were blood vessels left. There were flexible, clear blood vessels. And so here was the first soft tissue from a dinosaur. It was extraordinary. But she also found osteocytes, which are the cells that laid down the bones. And try and try, we could not find DNA, but she did find evidence of proteins. But we thought maybe — well, we thought maybe that the material was breaking down after it was coming out of the ground. We thought maybe it was deteriorating very fast. And so we built a laboratory in the back of an 18-wheeler trailer, and actually took the laboratory to the field where we could get better samples. And we did. We got better material. The cells looked better. The vessels looked better. Found the protein collagen. I mean, it was wonderful stuff. But it's not dinosaur DNA. So we have discovered that dinosaur DNA, and all DNA, just breaks down too fast. We're just not going to be able to do what they did in ""Jurassic Park."" We're not going to be able to make a dinosaur based on a dinosaur. But birds are dinosaurs. Birds are living dinosaurs. We actually classify them as dinosaurs. We now call them non-avian dinosaurs and avian dinosaurs. So the non-avian dinosaurs are the big clunky ones that went extinct. Avian dinosaurs are our modern birds. So we don't have to make a dinosaur because we already have them. (Laughter) I know, you're as bad as the sixth-graders. (Laughter) The sixth-graders look at it and they say, ""No."" (Laughter) ""You can call it a dinosaur, but look at the velociraptor: the velociraptor is cool."" (Laughter) ""The chicken is not."" (Laughter) So this is our problem, as you can imagine. The chicken is a dinosaur. I mean it really is. You can't argue with it because we're the classifiers and we've classified it that way. (Laughter) (Applause) But the sixth-graders demand it. ""Fix the chicken."" (Laughter) So that's what I'm here to tell you about: how we are going to fix a chicken. So we have a number of ways that we actually can fix the chicken. Because evolution works, we actually have some evolutionary tools. We'll call them biological modification tools. We have selection. And we know selection works. We started out with a wolf-like creature and we ended up with a Maltese. I mean, that's — that's definitely genetic modification. Or any of the other funny-looking little dogs. We also have transgenesis. Transgenesis is really cool too. That's where you take a gene out of one animal and stick it in another one. That's how people make GloFish. You take a glow gene out of a coral or a jellyfish and you stick it in a zebrafish, and, puff, they glow. And that's pretty cool. And they obviously make a lot of money off of them. And now they're making Glow-rabbits and Glow-all-sorts-of-things. I guess we could make a glow chicken. (Laughter) But I don't think that'll satisfy the sixth-graders either. But there's another thing. There's what we call atavism activation. And atavism activation is basically — an atavism is an ancestral characteristic. You heard that occasionally children are born with tails, and it's because it's an ancestral characteristic. And so there are a number of atavisms that can happen. Snakes are occasionally born with legs. And here's an example. This is a chicken with teeth. A fellow by the name of Matthew Harris at the University of Wisconsin in Madison actually figured out a way to stimulate the gene for teeth, and so was able to actually turn the tooth gene on and produce teeth in chickens. Now that's a good characteristic. We can save that one. We know we can use that. We can make a chicken with teeth. That's getting closer. That's better than a glowing chicken. (Laughter) A friend of mine, a colleague of mine, Dr. Hans Larsson at McGill University, is actually looking at atavisms. And he's looking at them by looking at the embryo genesis of birds and actually looking at how they develop, and he's interested in how birds actually lost their tail. He's also interested in the transformation of the arm, the hand, to the wing. He's looking for those genes as well. And I said, ""Well, if you can find those, I can just reverse them and make what I need to make for the sixth-graders."" And so he agreed. And so that's what we're looking into. If you look at dinosaur hands, a velociraptor has that cool-looking hand with the claws on it. Archaeopteryx, which is a bird, a primitive bird, still has that very primitive hand. But as you can see, the pigeon, or a chicken or anything else, another bird, has kind of a weird-looking hand, because the hand is a wing. But the cool thing is that, if you look in the embryo, as the embryo is developing the hand actually looks pretty much like the archaeopteryx hand. It has the three fingers, the three digits. But a gene turns on that actually fuses those together. And so what we're looking for is that gene. We want to stop that gene from turning on, fusing those hands together, so we can get a chicken that hatches out with a three-fingered hand, like the archaeopteryx. And the same goes for the tails. Birds have basically rudimentary tails. And so we know that in embryo, as the animal is developing, it actually has a relatively long tail. But a gene turns on and resorbs the tail, gets rid of it. So that's the other gene we're looking for. We want to stop that tail from resorbing. So what we're trying to do really is take our chicken, modify it and make the chickenosaurus. (Laughter) It's a cooler-looking chicken. But it's just the very basics. So that really is what we're doing. And people always say, ""Why do that? Why make this thing? What good is it?"" Well, that's a good question. Actually, I think it's a great way to teach kids about evolutionary biology and developmental biology and all sorts of things. And quite frankly, I think if Colonel Sanders was to be careful how he worded it, he could actually advertise an extra piece. (Laughter) Anyway — When our dino-chicken hatches, it will be, obviously, the poster child, or what you might call a poster chick, for technology, entertainment and design. Thank you. (Applause)"	"當我在Montana長大時我有過兩個夢想我想要做一名古生物學家一名恐龍古生物學家我還想要一隻恐龍當寵物所以這就是我在努力一生的夢想我是非常幸運在我的早期職業生涯我找東西時很幸運我不是很善於閱讀其實，我不讀的東西很多我是有嚴重的閱讀障礙所以閱讀時我做的最困難的事不過， 我走出家門去找東西然後我在地上拾東西我基本上是在練習在地上找錢（笑聲）我在小山中漫遊找到了一些東西 和我已經夠幸運能找到在西半球裡的第一只蛋和第一只恐龍寶寶在巢裡第一個恐龍胚胎和大量積累的骨頭就在當人們就開始明白恐龍不是那些人們則麽多年來以為的大，笨，綠色的爬行動物人本開始得到一個想法恐龍是特別的 所以在那時我能夠和我的同事做一些有趣的假設我們其實可以說恐龍-根據我們的證據-恐龍蓋巢住在群里和 照顧他們的幼代帶給他們的寶寶食物而在巨大的群裡移動所以這是非常有趣的東西我已經在尋找更多的事情並發現恐龍真的是很有社會感。我們找到了很多證據表示恐龍會變從他們幼兒期、青少年時期到成人期他們的外表會改變想在全部的集體動物在動物的群體中，幼兒一直和成年長的不同大的可以識別的未成年的未成年的可以識別的大的所以，我們是在做一個更好的描述恐龍是什麼樣子他們不只整天在追逐吉普車 （笑聲） 但是社會的事情我想吸引邁克爾克萊頓 （Michael Crichton)並在他的書中，他談到了社會性的動物然後史蒂芬斯皮爾伯格（Steven Spielberg），當然描述這些恐龍作為非常社會的動物這個故事的主題是建立一只恐龍所以我們來的那“侏羅紀公園“的部分邁克爾克萊頓是一真正的第一個人談論使恐龍復活大家都知道這個故事吧我設想這裡的所有人都看到“侏羅紀公園“。 如果你想做一只恐龍，你出去，你找自己的一塊石化樹液-或稱為琥珀-裡面有一些吸血昆蟲在裡面那些好的你會得到你的蟲子，你挖個洞你吸出一些DNA因為很顯然所有的昆蟲都在那些日子裡吸血吸了恐龍的DNA然後你把你的DNA帶回實驗室你利用基因去複製它我猜你可能把它注入鴕鳥蛋或類似的東西然後你就等你瞧，出彈出一個小恐龍寶寶然後每個人都為這個開心（笑聲）他們一次又一次的快樂他們繼續做下去，他們不停的做這些事然後，然後，然後，然後 ...然後，恐龍作為社會動物用他們的社會性他們聚在一起，和密謀當然，這是史蒂芬斯皮爾伯格的電影-恐龍追逐人的陰謀 所以我想大家都知道如果你真的有一塊琥珀，裡面有昆蟲，你鑽了進去你把昆蟲裡拿出一些東西你複製它，一遍又一遍又一遍你就會有一間充滿了蚊子的房間（笑聲）（掌聲）以及可能還有一大堆的樹 那麼如果你想要恐龍的DNA，我說直接去恐龍拿所以我們就那麼做早在1993年當電影出來後我們實際有一個由美國國家科學基金會所給的一個計畫試圖萃取一個恐龍的DNA我們選擇了恐龍在左側一條霸王龍，這是一個非常好的標本我以前有一位博士生Mary Schweitzer 博士實際上有背景做這類事情因此，研究過著這個霸王龍骨骼其中一個大腿骨而她居然發現一些非常有趣的結構在裡面他們發現，這些紅色的圓形的東西他們找了所有的世界像紅血細胞他們在似乎是血液傳輸的管道經過了骨頭於是她想，好吧，什麼東西於是，她抽取出它的一些物質現在不是DNA，她沒有找到的DNA但她發現血紅素這是生物學基礎血紅蛋白這真的很酷這是有趣的這是- 在這裡，我們有六千五百萬歲血紅素我們試了又試我們無法真正得到任何東西 幾年過去了然後我們開始了Hell Creek工程Hell Creek工程是個的大工程我們希望可以發現可以發現的恐龍希望能找到一些恐龍有更多的東西在裡面在Montana的東部有很多的空間，很多荒地並沒有住很多人所以你可以去那裡，找到了很多的東西而且，我們也發現了很多的東西我們發現了大量的霸王龍但我們發現一個特殊霸王龍我們把它稱為乙霸王龍乙霸王龍是在好幾萬噸的岩石下發現這不是一個很完整的霸王龍不是一個非常大的暴龍但它是一個非常特殊的乙霸王龍我和我的同事剪切出來而我們能夠確定通過查看這隻以霸王龍的一些年齡成長資料，乙霸王龍活了16年我們真的不知道恐龍的壽命因為我們沒有發現最老的但這只16歲死了 我們把樣品給了Mary Schweitzer她竟然能夠確定乙霸王龍是母的基於在骨頭裡面的骨隨組織而判定的骨隨組織是鈣積聚基本上被儲存的鈣常常發生在動物懷孕或是鳥類懷孕的過程中堆積而成的因此，正是這個性質把鳥類和恐龍聯繫起來但Mary做了更進一步研究她把那塊骨頭丟進了酸液中現在大家都知道這些骨頭都是被石化的所以，如果你放進酸不應該有任何東西留著但是還有一些沒化掉有血管富有彈性，單純的血管這裡是第一個從恐龍軟組織這是了不起的她也發現骨細胞就是這些細胞構成了骨頭並努力嘗試，我們無法找到DNA但她找到證據的蛋白質 但我們想，也許-也許這些化石被挖出後會分解也許這是因為蛋白質劣化的速度非常快所以，我們建立了一個實驗室在一部18輪拖車的後面把實驗室移駕到野外在那裡我們可以得到更好的樣本我們做到了，我們得到了更好的物質這些細胞看起來更好血管看起來更好然後，膠原蛋白它是美好的東西但它不是恐龍的DNA因此，我們已經發現恐龍的DNA，和所有的DNA分解了太快我們只是不能和“侏羅紀公園“情節一樣重建出一隻恐龍我們不能夠做恐龍從恐龍 但是，鳥類是恐龍鳥類是恐龍的活化石我們實際上它們分類作為恐龍我們現在稱之為非禽類恐龍和禽類恐龍因此，非禽類恐龍是那些笨重的，現在滅絕了禽類的恐龍我們的現代的鳥所以，我們不需要做出恐龍因為我們已經有了 （笑聲） 我知道，你們和六年級學生一樣糟糕（笑聲）六年級學生看牠時，他們說“不”（笑聲）”你可以把牠叫做恐龍但看看迅猛龍，牠們多酷啊。“（笑聲）“雞一點也不酷。“（笑聲）因此，這是我們的問題你可以想像雞是個恐龍真的確實是因為我們的分類，我們已經歸類這種方式（笑聲）（掌聲）但是，六年級學生要求“修理牠。“（笑聲）所以這就是我在這裡要告訴你的：我們將如何改造雞 我們有很多的方法讓我們改造一隻雞因為進化我們其實有一些因進化產生的工具我們會叫他們""生物修改工具""我們已經有選擇而且我們知道選擇的工作方式我們開始了一個狼一樣的動物最後我們得到了馬爾濟斯(狗)。那是這絕對是基因改造或任何其他有趣的小狗我們也有轉基因轉基因真的很酷這就是你帶出一個基因從動物然後貼在另外一個這就是人們是如何做出螢光魚你從珊瑚或水母拿出一個發光基因和你把它加進斑馬魚讓他們發光起來這很酷他們顯然賺了許多錢現在，他們正在做發光兔而發光的各種事物我想我們可以做一個發光雞（笑聲）但我不認為會滿足六年級學生 還有還有就是我們所說的隔代遺傳隔代遺傳基本上是-隔代遺傳的現象是一個祖先的特徵你聽說偶爾孩子出生時有尾巴它是因為它的一個祖先的特徵有一些隔代遺傳的現象發生可以實現蛇是有腳偶爾出生而這裡的一個例子這是有牙齒的雞一位叫Matthew Harris的研究人員在威斯康星大學麥迪遜其實想出了一個辦法來刺激牙齒的基因因此她能夠活化牙齒基因並產生有牙的雞這是一個好的特點我們可以留那個我們知道我們可以用它我們可以創造一隻有牙齒的雞這離我們的目標越來越近比發光的雞還好 （笑聲） 我的一個朋友， 一位同事Hans Larsson 博士在 McGill 大學其實是看隔代遺傳的現象他在看他們通過觀察鳥類的胚胎起源和實際看他們如何發展他的興趣在如何鳥類失去了他們的尾巴他也對改造有興趣胳膊，手，在羽翼上他在尋找這些基因我告訴他“如果你能找到我可以改造一番做我需要給六年級學生做的”所以他答應了這就是我們正在研究 如果你看恐龍的手一個迅猛龍長的酷的手與它的爪子始祖鳥，這是一種鳥，一種原始的鳥還有原始的手但你可以看到，鴿子或雞或另外一隻鳥有一個奇怪模樣的手因為手是翼但是酷的是如果你看在胚胎發展中的胚胎手其實看上去幾乎像始祖鳥手它有三個手指一個基因其實這些融合在一起我們就在找那個基因我們要阻止這種基因從隱性變成顯性把手融合在一起所以我們可以得到一個雞孵化出一個三指手像始祖鳥而且尾巴也一樣鳥類基本上有很原始的尾巴所以我們知道在胚胎動物在發展它實際上有一個相對長的尾巴但當一個基因開啟就漸漸擺脫尾巴所以這是我們正在尋找其他的基因我們要制止這種尾巴 我們正在嘗試拿雞改造一番做一隻“Chickenosaurus"" (”雞龍“）（笑聲）這是一只更酷的雞這僅僅是最基礎的這確實是我們正在做的事情人們一直問 ""為什麼做那？為什麼做這個東西？它有什麼好？“嗯，這是一個很好的問題其實，關於進化生物學我覺得這是一個不錯的方式來教孩子與發育生物學和所有各式各樣的東西很坦率地說，我覺得如果肯德基老公公小心的做廣告他其實可以多賣一塊雞肉（笑聲） 無論如何當我們的恐龍雞孵化它會是， 很明顯， 代表人物或者 你有可能叫它代表雞給 科技， 娛樂， 和設計（TED) 謝謝 （掌聲）"
