Talk	en	zh-tw
jackie_tabick	"One of my favorite cartoon characters is Snoopy. I love the way he sits and lies on his kennel and contemplates the great things of life. So when I thought about compassion, my mind immediately went to one of the cartoon strips, where he's lying there and he says, ""I really understand, and I really appreciate how one should love one's neighbor as one love's oneself. The only trouble is the people next door; I can't stand them."" This, in a way, is one of the challenges of how to interpret a really good idea. We all, I think, believe in compassion. If you look at all the world religions, all the main world religions, you'll find within them some teaching concerning compassion. So in Judaism, we have, from our Torah, that you should love your neighbor as you love yourself. And within Jewish teachings, the rabbinic teachings, we have Hillel, who taught that you shouldn't do to others what you don't like being done to yourself. And all the main religions have similar teachings. And again, within Judaism, we have a teaching about God, who is called the compassionate one, Ha-rachaman. After all, how could the world exist without God being compassionate? And we, as taught within the Torah that we are made in the image of God, so we too have to be compassionate. But what does it mean? How does it impact on our everyday life? Sometimes, of course, being compassionate can produce feelings within us that are very difficult to control. I know there are many times when I've gone and conducted a funeral, or when I have been sitting with the bereaved, or with people who are dying, and I am overwhelmed by the sadness, by the difficulty, the challenge that is there for the family, for the person. And I'm touched, so that tears come to my eyes. And yet, if I just allowed myself to be overwhelmed by these feelings, I wouldn't be doing my job — because I have to actually be there for them and make sure that rituals happen, that practicalities are seen to. And yet, on the other hand, if I didn't feel this compassion, then I feel that it would be time for me to hang up my robe and give up being a rabbi. And these same feelings are there for all of us as we face the world. Who cannot be touched by compassion when we see the terrible horrors of the results of war, or famine, or earthquakes, or tsunamis? I know some people who say ""Well, you know there's just so much out there — I can't do anything, I'm not going to even begin to try."" And there are some charity workers who call this compassion fatigue. There are others who feel they can't confront compassion anymore, and so they turn off the television and don't watch. In Judaism, though, we tend to always say, there has to be a middle way. You have to, of course, be aware of the needs of others, but you have to be aware in such a way that you can carry on with your life and be of help to people. So part of compassion has to be an understanding of what makes people tick. And, of course, you can't do that unless you understand yourself a bit more. And there's a lovely rabbinic interpretation of the beginnings of creation, which says that when God created the world, God thought that it would be best to create the world only with the divine attribute of justice. Because, after all, God is just. Therefore, there should be justice throughout the world. And then God looked to the future and realized, if the world was created just with justice, the world couldn't exist. So, God thought, ""Nope, I'm going to create the world just with compassion."" And then God looked to the future and realized that, in fact, if the world were just filled with compassion, there would be anarchy and chaos. There had to be limits to all things. The rabbis describe this as being like a king who has a beautiful, fragile glass bowl. If you put too much cold water in, it will shatter. If you put boiling water in, it will shatter. What do you have to do? Put in a mixture of the two. And so God put both of these possibilities into the world. There is something more though that has to be there. And that is the translation of the feelings that we may have about compassion into the wider world, into action. So, like Snoopy, we can't just lie there and think great thoughts about our neighbors. We actually have to do something about it. And so there is also, within Judaism, this notion of love and kindness that becomes very important: ""chesed."" All these three things, then, have to be melded together. The idea of justice, which gives boundaries to our lives and gives us a feeling of what's right about life, what's right about living, what should we be doing, social justice. There has to be a willingness to do good deeds, but not, of course, at the expense of our own sanity. You know, there's no way that you can do anything for anyone if you overdo things. And balancing them all in the middle is this notion of compassion, which has to be there, if you like, at our very roots. This idea of compassion comes to us because we're made in the image of God, who is ultimately the compassionate one. What does this compassion entail? It entails understanding the pain of the other. But even more than that, it means understanding one's connection to the whole of creation: understanding that one is part of that creation, that there is a unity that underlies all that we see, all that we hear, all that we feel. I call that unity God. And that unity is something that connects all of creation. And, of course, in the modern world, with the environmental movement, we're becoming even more aware of the connectivity of things, that something I do here actually does matter in Africa, that if I use too much of my carbon allowance, it seems to be that we are causing a great lack of rain in central and eastern Africa. So there is a connectivity, and I have to understand that — as part of the creation, as part of me being made in the image of God. And I have to understand that my needs sometimes have to be sublimated to other needs. This ""18 minutes"" business, I find quite fascinating. Because in Judaism, the number 18, in Hebrew letters, stands for life — the word ""life."" So, in a sense, the 18 minutes is challenging me to say, ""In life, this is what's important in terms of compassion."" But, something else as well: actually, 18 minutes is important. Because at Passover, when we have to eat unleavened bread, the rabbis say, what is the difference between dough that is made into bread, and dough that is made into unleavened bread, or ""matzah""? And they say ""It's 18 minutes."" Because that's how long they say it takes for this dough to become leaven. What does it mean, ""dough becomes leaven""? It means it gets filled with hot air. What's matzah? What's unleavened bread? You don't get it. Symbolically, what the rabbis say is that at Passover, what we have to do is try to get rid of our hot air — our pride, our feeling that we are the most important people in the whole entire world, and that everything should revolve round us. So we try and get rid of those, and so doing, try to get rid of the habits, the emotions, the ideas that enslave us, that make our eyes closed, give us tunnel vision so we don't see the needs of others — and free ourselves and free ourselves from that. And that too is a basis for having compassion, for understanding our place in the world. Now there is, in Judaism, a gorgeous story of a rich man who sat in synagogue one day. And, as many people do, he was dozing off during the sermon. And as he was dozing off, they were reading from the book of Leviticus in the Torah. And they were saying that in the ancient times in the temple in Jerusalem, the priests used to have bread, which they used to place into a special table in the temple in Jerusalem. The man was asleep, but he heard the words bread, temple, God, and he woke up. He said, ""God wants bread. That's it. God wants bread. I know what God wants."" And he rushed home. And after the Sabbath, he made 12 loaves of bread, took them to the synagogue, went into the synagogue, opened the ark and said, ""God, I don't know why you want this bread, but here you are."" And he put it in the ark with the scrolls of the Torah. Then he went home. The cleaner came into the synagogue. ""Oh God, I'm in such trouble. I've got children to feed. My wife's ill. I've got no money. What can I do?"" He goes into the synagogue. ""God, will you please help me? Ah, what a wonderful smell."" He goes to the ark. He opens the ark. ""There's bread! God, you've answered my plea. You've answered my question."" Takes the bread and goes home. Meanwhile, the rich man thinks to himself, ""I'm an idiot. God wants bread? God, the one who rules the entire universe, wants my bread?"" He rushes to the synagogue. ""I'll get it out of the ark before anybody finds it."" He goes in there, and it's not there. And he says, ""God, you really did want it. You wanted my bread. Next week, with raisins."" This went on for years. Every week, the man would bring bread with raisins, with all sorts of good things, put it into the ark. Every week, the cleaner would come. ""God you've answered my plea again."" Take the bread. Take it home. Went on until a new rabbi came. Rabbis always spoil things. The rabbi came in and saw what was going on. And he called the two of them to his office. And he said, you know, ""This is what's happening."" And the rich man — oh, dear — crestfallen. ""You mean God didn't want my bread?"" And the poor man said, ""And you mean God didn't answer my pleas?"" And the rabbi said, ""You've misunderstood me. You've misunderstood totally,"" he said. ""Of course, what you are doing,"" he said to the rich man, ""is answering God's plea that we should be compassionate. And God,"" he said to the poor man, ""is answering your plea that people should be compassionate and give."" He looked at the rich man. He held the rich man's hands and said, ""Don't you understand?"" He said, ""These are the hands of God."" So that is the way I feel: that I can only try to approach this notion of being compassionate, of understanding that there is a connectivity, that there is a unity in this world; that I want to try and serve that unity, and that I can try and do that by understanding, I hope, trying to understand something of the pain of others; but understanding that there are limits, that people have to bear responsibility for some of the problems that come upon them; and that I have to understand that there are limits to my energy, to the giving I can give. I have to reevaluate them, try and separate out the material things and my emotions that may be enslaving me, so that I can see the world clearly. And then I have to try to see in what ways I can make these the hands of God. And so try to bring compassion to life in this world."	"我最喜歡的漫畫人物之一是史努比。尤其喜愛他坐躺在小屋上里思考人生大事的情景。所以當我想到“同情心”這個話題的時候，我的腦海立刻浮現出了一集漫畫：他躺在那裡，然後說：「我的確很了解，也很贊同，一個人應當愛他周圍的人，跟愛自己一樣。但唯一的問題是：隔壁那些人，我實在受不了！」其實在某種程度上，這是一種挑戰：如何把一個好的想法付諸行動。 我想，我們大家應該都相信同情心的價值。如果你去了解全世界的宗教，全世界的主要的宗教，你會發現其實他們都涵蓋了有關於同情心的教導。在猶太教義的摩西五書裡，我們有：你應當如愛自己一樣愛你的鄰人。在猶太人的教誨里，希伯來教義中，我們有Hillel (著名猶太宗教領袖)的教導，告訴我們，己所不欲，勿施於人。幾乎所有其他的主要宗教都有這樣的教誨。還有，在猶太教，我們有關於神的一課：神Ha-rachaman， 是被叫做“同情者”的。如果神沒有同情心，這個世界怎麼能存在呢？正同摩西五書講的，我們是依照神的樣子被創造出來，所以我們一樣，也要有同情心。但這意味著什麼呢？同情心是如何影響我們的生活的呢？的確，有時候有同情心會使我們產生一些難以控制的情感。 我知道，有很多次我去參加葬禮，和那些失去親人的朋友們坐在一起，或和垂死的人在一起，我埋沒在悲傷，艱困，個人或是家庭所面對的挑戰中。我深受感動，淚眼盈眶。但是，如果我就這麼埋沒在情感之下，就無法做好我的工作，因為我必須陪著他們，確定儀式順利進行而細節有顧及到。另一方面，如果我不感到同情，那我想也是收起我的長袍，辭去拉比之職的時候了。 我們在面對這世界時也一樣要面對同樣的感受。誰不因同情而動容呢？眼看戰爭所帶來的恐怖後果，饑荒，地震，海嘯之時？我知道有些人會說：「這個世界上發生的事情太多了，我無能為力。我甚至連試一下都不想了。」有些慈善界的人員稱之為""同情心疲憊""。還有那些再也無法處理同情感的人，乾脆關掉電視，不去看它。我們猶太教則一直傳達中庸之道的必然存在。 你理所當然要關心到他人的需要，但你關心的方式要讓你能繼續生活同時能給予他人幫助。所以同情心也包含了對於人們作事動機的了解。當然，在那之前你得先更了解自己一點。 猶太教裡有這麼一個關於創世紀的故事：上帝創造了世界，神認為創世最好的方法，是單單以正義為神聖的元素。因為上帝是公正的。所以，全世界都應該是公平的。然後上帝預見了未來，發現，不可能存在以絕對公正的世界。 所以，上帝想到，「不如，我就創造一個全都是同情心的世界吧。」然後上帝再一次預見了未來，發現，實際上，如果世界只有同情心，那麼這個世界將充滿混亂。一切事物都要有限度。拉比將這比喻成一位國王，擁有一個美麗卻易碎的玻璃碗，若你倒進太多的冰水，它會碎裂。若你倒進沸騰的水，它也會碎裂。那你該怎麼辦呢？把冰水同滾水混合了再倒進去。所以上帝把這兩種可能性都放入了這個世界。 然而還得融入更多東西。那就是感覺的轉譯我們可以讓同情心進入更廣的世界，付諸行動。一如史奴比，我們不能一味躺著懷抱著對我們鄰居偉大的想法。我們得實際做出行動。也因此在猶太教裡，這愛與慈悲的概念變得很重要。 這三者必須融合在一起。正義這個觀念讓我們的生命有界線也使我們感受到生命和活著本身什麼是正確的，我們應當在做什麼，社會正義。有做善事的意願是必須，但不是以犧牲明理為前提。你如果做得太超過，就不可能幫到任何人。而取得中庸之道就是同情的原則。它必得存在於我們的根中。 我們之所以有同情心是因為我們是依照神的樣貌打造的。祂是終極具同情心的那位。這同情心包含什麼呢？包含了解他人的痛苦不只這樣還代表對個人與萬物之間之聯繫的理解了解個人屬於萬物了解在我們所見、所聞、所感之深處有個一致性。我稱這一致性為神。這一致性聯繫起萬物。 當然，在現代，因為環境運動我們更加留意到萬物之間的聯繫留意道我在這裡所做的事情會影響到非洲，如果我用的碳超出限度就有可能造成非洲中部和東部大幅缺乏雨水。所以聯繫是存在的。我必須了解身為萬物之一身為神的樣貌我必須了解我的需要有時得昇華成其他的需要。 這18分鐘的生意，還蠻美妙的。因為猶太教中18這個數字的希伯來文字代表生命，生命這個字。所以也可以說18分鐘挑戰我說在生命中，這是以同情心來說重要的事但其他的也一樣。事實上，18分鐘的確重要。因為踰越節我們吃沒發酵的麵包時拉比訴說做成麵包的麵團和做成沒發酵麵包的麵團有什麼不一樣。他們說是18分鐘。因為這就是麵包發酵的時間長度。麵包發酵是什麼意思？就是麵團充滿了熱空氣。什麼matzah，沒發酵的麵包？你不懂。 象徵性的，拉比這麼說，是在踰越節，我們要做的是試著擺脫我們的熱空氣，我們的傲氣，我們以為自己是全世界最重要的人的感覺，以為所有事物都繞著我們轉的感覺。我們因此試圖擺脫這些，如此一來，試著擺脫那囚困我們的舊習、情緒、想法，那遮掩我們雙眼、使我們短視無法看見他人所需讓我們自己獲得解放。而這也是有同情心的基礎了解我們在這世上位置的基礎。 在猶太教中有個很好的故事有一天一個富人坐在猶太聖殿而跟很多人一樣，在禮拜的時候打瞌睡了。他正進入夢鄉時，其他人正在讀摩西五書的利未記他們說古代在耶路撒冷的聖殿裡，那時候祭司都把麵包擺在耶路撒冷聖殿中特別的桌上。那男人原本睡著了，但他聽到麵包、寺廟和神這幾個詞卻醒了。他說：「上帝要麵包。沒錯！上帝要麵包。我知道上帝要什麼。」 然後他衝回家。安息日後他做了12條麵包，拿到猶太聖殿，帶進去，打開約櫃，說：「上帝，我不知道你為什麼要麵包，但我幫你做好了。」接著他把麵包放進約櫃中，和摩西五書擺在一起。然後回家。 清潔員來到了猶太聖殿。「噢天哪，我麻煩大了，我得餵小孩。我妻子病了。我沒錢。該怎麼辦？」他進入猶太聖殿。「神啊，求求您幫幫我！啊！什麼東西怎麼那麼香！」他走到約櫃前，打開約櫃。「有麵包！神，您成全了我的請願，您回答了我的問題。」他拿了麵包，回家。 與此同時，富人自己想著，「我真白痴。上帝要麵包？上帝，一個掌管全宇宙的神，要我的麵包？」他衝回猶太聖殿。「我要趁別人還沒發現前把它拿出約櫃來。」而麵包卻不見了。他說：「神啊，您真的要啊！您要我的麵包。下星期，再加葡萄乾。」 就這樣持續了許多年。每週，富人都帶來加葡萄乾的麵包，和許許多多的好東西，放進約櫃裡。每週，清潔員都會來。「神哪您又再次成全了我。」把麵包拿走，帶回家。 直到新的拉比來的。拉比總是壞好事。拉比來後看見是怎麼一回事。他於是把這兩個人叫到他的辦公室。他說：「事情是這樣的。」 然後富人羞愧的說：「你的意思是上帝不要我的麵包？」 窮人則說：「那上帝並沒有成全我？」 拉比說：「你們誤解我了。」「你們完全誤解了」他說。「當然，你在做的事，」他向富人說，「是成全神要我們有同情心的懇請。」「而上帝，」他向窮人說，「也成全了你希望人們有同情心並布施的請願。」他看著富人。握著他的手說：「你難道不懂嗎？」他說：「這雙是上帝的手。」 所以這就是我的感覺，我只能試著接近這有同情心的概念，瞭解關連性的存在，一致性的存在，而我想試著為這一致性效勞。而我可以試圖藉由了解來達成，我如此希望，試著了解他人的痛苦，但了解是有限的，人們必須擔起責任為一些發生在他們身上的問題，我也必須了解我個人的精力有限，在布施這方面。我必須重新評估，試著隔離出物質的東西和可能駕馭我的情緒，好讓我清楚的看這世界。 接著我必須試圖看看有什麼方法讓我這雙手成為上帝的。試著為世上萬生帶來同情心。"
