Talk	en	zh-tw
jacqueline_novogratz_inspiring_a_life_of_immersion	"I've been spending a lot of time traveling around the world these days, talking to groups of students and professionals, and everywhere I'm finding that I hear similar themes. On the one hand, people say, ""The time for change is now."" They want to be part of it. They talk about wanting lives of purpose and greater meaning. But on the other hand, I hear people talking about fear, a sense of risk-aversion. They say, ""I really want to follow a life of purpose, but I don't know where to start. I don't want to disappoint my family or friends."" I work in global poverty. And they say, ""I want to work in global poverty, but what will it mean about my career? Will I be marginalized? Will I not make enough money? Will I never get married or have children?"" And as a woman who didn't get married until I was a lot older — and I'm glad I waited — (Laughter) — and has no children, I look at these young people and I say, ""Your job is not to be perfect. Your job is only to be human. And nothing important happens in life without a cost."" These conversations really reflect what's happening at the national and international level. Our leaders and ourselves want everything, but we don't talk about the costs. We don't talk about the sacrifice. One of my favorite quotes from literature was written by Tillie Olsen, the great American writer from the South. In a short story called ""Oh Yes,"" she talks about a white woman in the 1950s who has a daughter who befriends a little African American girl, and she looks at her child with a sense of pride, but she also wonders, what price will she pay? ""Better immersion than to live untouched."" But the real question is, what is the cost of not daring? What is the cost of not trying? I've been so privileged in my life to know extraordinary leaders who have chosen to live lives of immersion. One woman I knew who was a fellow at a program that I ran at the Rockefeller Foundation was named Ingrid Washinawatok. She was a leader of the Menominee tribe, a Native American peoples. And when we would gather as fellows, she would push us to think about how the elders in Native American culture make decisions. And she said they would literally visualize the faces of children for seven generations into the future, looking at them from the Earth, and they would look at them, holding them as stewards for that future. Ingrid understood that we are connected to each other, not only as human beings, but to every living thing on the planet. And tragically, in 1999, when she was in Colombia working with the U'wa people, focused on preserving their culture and language, she and two colleagues were abducted and tortured and killed by the FARC. And whenever we would gather the fellows after that, we would leave a chair empty for her spirit. And more than a decade later, when I talk to NGO fellows, whether in Trenton, New Jersey or the office of the White House, and we talk about Ingrid, they all say that they're trying to integrate her wisdom and her spirit and really build on the unfulfilled work of her life's mission. And when we think about legacy, I can think of no more powerful one, despite how short her life was. And I've been touched by Cambodian women — beautiful women, women who held the tradition of the classical dance in Cambodia. And I met them in the early '90s. In the 1970s, under the Pol Pot regime, the Khmer Rouge killed over a million people, and they focused and targeted the elites and the intellectuals, the artists, the dancers. And at the end of the war, there were only 30 of these classical dancers still living. And the women, who I was so privileged to meet when there were three survivors, told these stories about lying in their cots in the refugee camps. They said they would try so hard to remember the fragments of the dance, hoping that others were alive and doing the same. And one woman stood there with this perfect carriage, her hands at her side, and she talked about the reunion of the 30 after the war and how extraordinary it was. And these big tears fell down her face, but she never lifted her hands to move them. And the women decided that they would train not the next generation of girls, because they had grown too old already, but the next generation. And I sat there in the studio watching these women clapping their hands — beautiful rhythms — as these little fairy pixies were dancing around them, wearing these beautiful silk colors. And I thought, after all this atrocity, this is how human beings really pray. Because they're focused on honoring what is most beautiful about our past and building it into the promise of our future. And what these women understood is sometimes the most important things that we do and that we spend our time on are those things that we cannot measure. I also have been touched by the dark side of power and leadership. And I have learned that power, particularly in its absolute form, is an equal opportunity provider. In 1986, I moved to Rwanda, and I worked with a very small group of Rwandan women to start that country's first microfinance bank. And one of the women was Agnes — there on your extreme left — she was one of the first three women parliamentarians in Rwanda, and her legacy should have been to be one of the mothers of Rwanda. We built this institution based on social justice, gender equity, this idea of empowering women. But Agnes cared more about the trappings of power than she did principle at the end. And though she had been part of building a liberal party, a political party that was focused on diversity and tolerance, about three months before the genocide, she switched parties and joined the extremist party, Hutu Power, and she became the Minister of Justice under the genocide regime and was known for inciting men to kill faster and stop behaving like women. She was convicted of category one crimes of genocide. And I would visit her in the prisons, sitting side-by-side, knees touching, and I would have to admit to myself that monsters exist in all of us, but that maybe it's not monsters so much, but the broken parts of ourselves, sadnesses, secret shame, and that ultimately it's easy for demagogues to prey on those parts, those fragments, if you will, and to make us look at other beings, human beings, as lesser than ourselves — and in the extreme, to do terrible things. And there is no group more vulnerable to those kinds of manipulations than young men. I've heard it said that the most dangerous animal on the planet is the adolescent male. And so in a gathering where we're focused on women, while it is so critical that we invest in our girls and we even the playing field and we find ways to honor them, we have to remember that the girls and the women are most isolated and violated and victimized and made invisible in those very societies where our men and our boys feel disempowered, unable to provide. And that, when they sit on those street corners and all they can think of in the future is no job, no education, no possibility, well then it's easy to understand how the greatest source of status can come from a uniform and a gun. Sometimes very small investments can release enormous, infinite potential that exists in all of us. One of the Acumen Fund fellows at my organization, Suraj Sudhakar, has what we call moral imagination — the ability to put yourself in another person's shoes and lead from that perspective. And he's been working with this young group of men who come from the largest slum in the world, Kibera. And they're incredible guys. And together they started a book club for a hundred people in the slums, and they're reading many TED authors and liking it. And then they created a business plan competition. Then they decided that they would do TEDx's. And I have learned so much from Chris and Kevin and Alex and Herbert and all of these young men. Alex, in some ways, said it best. He said, ""We used to feel like nobodies, but now we feel like somebodies."" And I think we have it all wrong when we think that income is the link. What we really yearn for as human beings is to be visible to each other. And the reason these young guys told me that they're doing these TEDx's is because they were sick and tired of the only workshops coming to the slums being those workshops focused on HIV, or at best, microfinance. And they wanted to celebrate what's beautiful about Kibera and Mathare — the photojournalists and the creatives, the graffiti artists, the teachers and the entrepreneurs. And they're doing it. And my hat's off to you in Kibera. My own work focuses on making philanthropy more effective and capitalism more inclusive. At Acumen Fund, we take philanthropic resources and we invest what we call patient capital — money that will invest in entrepreneurs who see the poor not as passive recipients of charity, but as full-bodied agents of change who want to solve their own problems and make their own decisions. We leave our money for 10 to 15 years, and when we get it back, we invest in other innovations that focus on change. I know it works. We've invested more than 50 million dollars in 50 companies, and those companies have brought another 200 million dollars into these forgotten markets. This year alone, they've delivered 40 million services like maternal health care and housing, emergency services, solar energy, so that people can have more dignity in solving their problems. Patient capital is uncomfortable for people searching for simple solutions, easy categories, because we don't see profit as a blunt instrument. But we find those entrepreneurs who put people and the planet before profit. And ultimately, we want to be part of a movement that is about measuring impact, measuring what is most important to us. And my dream is we'll have a world one day where we don't just honor those who take money and make more money from it, but we find those individuals who take our resources and convert it into changing the world in the most positive ways. And it's only when we honor them and celebrate them and give them status that the world will really change. Last May I had this extraordinary 24-hour period where I saw two visions of the world living side-by-side — one based on violence and the other on transcendence. I happened to be in Lahore, Pakistan on the day that two mosques were attacked by suicide bombers. And the reason these mosques were attacked is because the people praying inside were from a particular sect of Islam who fundamentalists don't believe are fully Muslim. And not only did those suicide bombers take a hundred lives, but they did more, because they created more hatred, more rage, more fear and certainly despair. But less than 24 hours, I was 13 miles away from those mosques, visiting one of our Acumen investees, an incredible man, Jawad Aslam, who dares to live a life of immersion. Born and raised in Baltimore, he studied real estate, worked in commercial real estate, and after 9/11 decided he was going to Pakistan to make a difference. For two years, he hardly made any money, a tiny stipend, but he apprenticed with this incredible housing developer named Tasneem Saddiqui. And he had a dream that he would build a housing community on this barren piece of land using patient capital, but he continued to pay a price. He stood on moral ground and refused to pay bribes. It took almost two years just to register the land. But I saw how the level of moral standard can rise from one person's action. Today, 2,000 people live in 300 houses in this beautiful community. And there's schools and clinics and shops. But there's only one mosque. And so I asked Jawad, ""How do you guys navigate? This is a really diverse community. Who gets to use the mosque on Fridays?"" He said, ""Long story. It was hard, it was a difficult road, but ultimately the leaders of the community came together, realizing we only have each other. And we decided that we would elect the three most respected imams, and those imams would take turns, they would rotate who would say Friday prayer. But the whole community, all the different sects, including Shi'a and Sunni, would sit together and pray."" We need that kind of moral leadership and courage in our worlds. We face huge issues as a world — the financial crisis, global warming and this growing sense of fear and otherness. And every day we have a choice. We can take the easier road, the more cynical road, which is a road based on sometimes dreams of a past that never really was, a fear of each other, distancing and blame. Or we can take the much more difficult path of transformation, transcendence, compassion and love, but also accountability and justice. I had the great honor of working with the child psychologist Dr. Robert Coles, who stood up for change during the Civil Rights movement in the United States. And he tells this incredible story about working with a little six-year-old girl named Ruby Bridges, the first child to desegregate schools in the South — in this case, New Orleans. And he said that every day this six-year-old, dressed in her beautiful dress, would walk with real grace through a phalanx of white people screaming angrily, calling her a monster, threatening to poison her — distorted faces. And every day he would watch her, and it looked like she was talking to the people. And he would say, ""Ruby, what are you saying?"" And she'd say, ""I'm not talking."" And finally he said, ""Ruby, I see that you're talking. What are you saying?"" And she said, ""Dr. Coles, I am not talking; I'm praying."" And he said, ""Well, what are you praying?"" And she said, ""I'm praying, 'Father, forgive them, for they know not what they are doing.'"" At age six, this child was living a life of immersion, and her family paid a price for it. But she became part of history and opened up this idea that all of us should have access to education. My final story is about a young, beautiful man named Josephat Byaruhanga, who was another Acumen Fund fellow, who hails from Uganda, a farming community. And we placed him in a company in Western Kenya, just 200 miles away. And he said to me at the end of his year, ""Jacqueline, it was so humbling, because I thought as a farmer and as an African I would understand how to transcend culture. But especially when I was talking to the African women, I sometimes made these mistakes — it was so hard for me to learn how to listen."" And he said, ""So I conclude that, in many ways, leadership is like a panicle of rice. Because at the height of the season, at the height of its powers, it's beautiful, it's green, it nourishes the world, it reaches to the heavens."" And he said, ""But right before the harvest, it bends over with great gratitude and humility to touch the earth from where it came."" We need leaders. We ourselves need to lead from a place that has the audacity to believe we can, ourselves, extend the fundamental assumption that all men are created equal to every man, woman and child on this planet. And we need to have the humility to recognize that we cannot do it alone. Robert Kennedy once said that ""few of us have the greatness to bend history itself, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events."" And it is in the total of all those acts that the history of this generation will be written. Our lives are so short, and our time on this planet is so precious, and all we have is each other. So may each of you live lives of immersion. They won't necessarily be easy lives, but in the end, it is all that will sustain us. Thank you. (Applause)"	"到目前為止, 我花了很多時間遊歷世界每一個角落跟許多學生和專業人士交談。在每一個地方我都會聽見類似的話題。一方面, 人們說，""這一刻就是改造未來的機會。""他們渴望成為動力的一分子。表達出他們對豐盛人生之渴求。但在另一方面,我聽見人們談論到憂慮,對冒險的反感。他們說, ""我渴望追隨一個有意義的人生，但不知從何開始。我不想讓家人或朋友失望。""我從事國際救貧工作。他們又說, ""我有意參與國際救貧工作,但這對我的事業有何影響?我會否被迫至社會邊緣?我的經濟能力許可嗎?婚姻和培育下一代的機會又怎樣呢?""由一個遲婚女人的角度來看 –我欣然地不畏等待 –「笑聲」– 而沒有孩子的我,看著這一群年輕人我說, ""你的使命不是追求完美,你的使命只是做人。任何重大的人生歷程都難免要付出代價。""這些交談真實地反映出地區性和國際性的社會狀況。我們的領袖跟我們一樣渴求着一切,但我們從不談到代價,我們從不談到犧牲。 一篇我最愛的文學是來自蒂莉 • 奧晨,一位美國南部的優秀作家。在短編小說《哦 是的》內,她談到一位生於50年代的白人女子,她的小女兒跟一個非洲裔的女孩結為好友。她看著小女兒而感到自豪,但也沉思,她須付出的代價有多大?""沐浴於大度總比未嚐透的人生要好得多。""但真正的問題是，不願冒險的代價是什麼?不作嘗試的代價又是什麼? 我生命中的榮幸是認識到一群非凡領袖全都選擇生活於大度之中。在我管理的一個洛氏基金會中我認識一個女同伴她的名字叫做英格烈 • 嬅絲娜雲苔。她是梅諾米尼部落的一個領袖，帶領著一班美國土著人民。每當我們一起作伴,她會推動我們的思維去想一想在美國土著文化裡的長老們是怎樣運籌決算。她說他們會幻想出孩子的臉龐一路延續到未來的第七代,從地球上遙望著他們。長老會看著他們, 委任他們爲新一代的管理人。英格烈明白到我們命脈雙連，不單止於人與人之間，還有天下萬物。 可是, 悲慘之事在1999年發生那年她在哥倫比亞跟雨娃部落的土著合作,專注於保育當地文化及語言，她跟兩位同僚被綁架最後受到哥倫比亞革命軍的折磨及殺害。從此每當我們聚在一起，我們會留一張空椅子紀念她的精神。十多年後，每當我跟非政府組織的同伴傾談，不論在特倫頓, 新澤西州或是白宮的辦公室,當我們談到英格烈,每人都會提到怎樣聯繫她的智慧和她的精神來建造那未完成的工作她一生中的使命。當我們想到遺志,我想不到什麼比這個更偉大,儘管她那短暫的一生。 我亦曾被柬埔寨的婦女感動,美麗的婦女,致力地保存著柬埔寨傳統舞蹈。我於90年代初認識她們。70年代中, 在波爾布特的獨權下,赤柬時期內有過百萬人殄亡。他們的矛頭指向精英和知識份子,藝術家, 舞蹈家。在干戈之後,倖存的只有30位傳統舞蹈家。我有幸認識到的婦女是其中三位生還者,她們回憶起躺在窄床上於難民營內。她們形容各人設法去回想舞蹈之點滴,期望仍然活著的也一般地想。 其中一位擁有完美體態的婦人,她的手放置在兩旁,她訴說戰後30年的團圓是那麼的難以忘懷。她淚珠滿面,但她未有一次張手抹去。這些婦女決意指導,不是下一代, 因她們已經成年,而是尚年幼的一代。我坐於工作室中看著這些婦女拍著手掌 –美麗的拍子 –而這些小精靈圍繞著她們跳舞,穿著美麗和五彩賓紛的絲綢。我想, 經過了所有殘酷暴行,這就是人們禱告的方法。因為她們注視和尊敬我們最美麗的過去將它建立於我們對未來的誠諾。這些婦女明白到有時候我們做最重要的事和我們花上最多的時間就是那些我們無法衡量的東西。 我也曾領教過,強權跟領導層的黑暗。我領悟到權力,在激進極端的形態裏,是一個平等機會提供者。於1986年, 我搬到盧旺達,我跟一班盧旺達婦女合作開設那國家的小額信貸銀行。其中一位婦人英家妮絲 –屬於極端左派 –她是三位盧旺達國會女議員之中的其中一位,她的傳奇應當是成為其中一個盧旺達之母。我們建立社會正義架構,性別平等主義,女性賦權理念。 但英家妮絲沈醉於權勢最終多於她的原則。她雖曾幫助帶動自由黨,一個專注多元文化和寬容主義的政黨,在種族滅絕前三個月, 她轉了黨加入一個激進政黨, 胡圖勢力,成為種族滅絕政權內的公義師政部長這勢力善於煽動男子殺人及輟止任何屬於女性化的行為。她被定罪於種族滅絕內的第一項罪行。我會到監獄探望她,一塊兒坐著, 膝頭碰膝頭,我對自己承認我們的心魔,可能不是惡魔,而是破碎的自己,悲傷, 隱蔽著的羞恥,所以最終能容易地被煽動者哺獵那些部位,那些碎片, 就這樣,令其他人在我們眼中,比我們自己渺小 –被偏激圍繞著, 做出可怕的事。 沒有一個群體比其他人更脆弱地蒙受精神操縱這一群就是年輕的男人。我曾聽說這星球上最危險的動物是在青春期的男性。然而在一個聚會裏當我們的焦點是女性,那關鍵是投資在女孩子身上制做同等商機找方法去表揚她們,我們要記得女孩子和婦女多受到孤立和冒犯成為看不見的受害者在某些社會裏當男人和男孩子感到無能爲力,無法供養配給。那樣, 當他們蹲在街角他們只可想到一個未來沒有工作, 沒有學歷,沒有遠景,那就可以容易理解身分待遇的最大來源可來自一件制服和一枝槍。 有時候很少的投資便可釋放巨大, 無限的潛能於我們各人懷內。我成立的機構內有一位雅決文基金之友,舒華子 • 舒達克加,擁有一種道德想像 –一種置身處地的能力從那個角度受到帶動。他一直跟一班男生合作全都來自世界最大的貧民窟, 基貝拉。他們是優秀的男生。他們一起創辦書社跟貧民窟內的一百人,出於喜愛他們一起閱讀 TED 作家的作品。他們又創立商業計劃比賽。他們更決意參與 TEDx。 我學會了很多由奇爾士和加芬亞力士和何百之還有這全班男生。亞力士, 用他的方法, 形容得最好。他說, ""我們以前覺得自己是無名氏,但現在我們感到自己的存在。""我想可能我們全都錯了我們以爲金錢收入是關鍵。其實我們人類最渴望的就是互相看到大家。而這班男生告訴我他們之所以參與 TEDx是因為他們厭倦在貧民窟中僅有的工作坊全都把焦點放在愛滋病,最棒的也只是, 小額信貸。他們希望可以表揚基貝拉和馬非亞的美麗 –攝影記者和藝術文人,街頭壁畫家, 老師和企業家。他們真的做到了。我脫掉帽子對基貝拉你表示尊敬。 我的工作焦點是讓慈善工作更有效令資本主義更包容。在雅決文基金, 我們將慈善性資源投資在命名為「耐心資本」之內 –資金放在對貧窮另有見解的企業家身上,不視窮人爲接受施捨的被動者,而是社會變革的醇媒體一些希望解決自身問題作出自我決定的人。我們將資金投放出去10~15年,收到回報後, 再投資去促進創新將焦點放在社會變革。我知道這是行得通的。我們已經將5千萬資金投放在50間公司。這些公司額外帶來2億回報投放於這些被遺忘的市場。這年, 它們履行了相等於4千萬的服務例如醫療及房屋,緊急服務, 太陽能,而使人們更有尊嚴去解決他們的問題。 無疑「耐心資本」可以引起不安尤其對一些尋求簡易答案,輕鬆類別的人來說,因為我們不會將盈利視為鈍器。我們尋找的那些企業家是一些會將人和地球放在盈利之上的人。最終, 我們希望成為社會變革的一分子去量度影響力,去衡量對我們最重要的東西。我的夢想是有一天可以活在一個世界我們不單止會表揚那些運用金錢來製造更多金錢的人,我們亦會將那些運用資源去改變世界的人放在最正面的目光之中。因為只有當我們尊敬他們表揚他們和給予他們地位這世界才會真正改變。 去年五月我有這24小時難以置信的經歷我看到兩個不同世界的景像並存在一起 –一個的基幹是暴力另一個是理性之升華。我剛巧在拉合爾, 巴基斯坦那天有兩間清真寺被自殺式炸彈襲擊。這些清真寺被襲原因是因為在內禱告的人都是屬於伊斯蘭教支派基要派不相信他們是真正的穆斯林。那些自殺攻擊者不但取掉了一百人的性命,他們還做得更多,因他們製造了更多憎恨, 更多怨憤, 更多恐懼當然還有絕望。 在少於24小時內,我已在那些清真寺的13里外,探望一位雅決文基金的投資人,一個非凡的男人, 沙華 • 亞士林,他勇敢地活於大度之中。土生土長於美國巴爾的摩,他主修房地產學, 曾在商業地產界工作,9/11之後他決意到巴基斯坦幹一番作爲。兩年之間, 他賺不到很多錢, 只有小小的資助,一位非凡的地產商收了他爲徒名叫他思林 • 沙的基。他的夢想是興建一個房屋社區在這片荒蕪地帶利用「耐心資本」,然而他繼續要付出代價。他站在道德的立場拒絕貪污。經過了兩年多才能為那片地註冊。我看到道德標準之可以提高是源自一人的行為。 今天, 有2,000人生活於300間房子在這美麗的社區。那裡有學校、診所和商店。但只有一間清真寺。我問沙華,""你們怎樣導航? 這實在是一個多元文化的社區。在星期五誰人可用到清真寺?""他說, ""故事很長篇。十分艱辛, 一條很難走的路,但最終社區內的領袖們走在一起,意會到我們只有大家。我們決定進行選舉三位最受尊敬的伊瑪目,當選的伊瑪目會調換,在星期五的禱告會輪流講道。但整個社區,所有教派, 包括什葉派和遜尼派,都會一起坐著禱告。"" 我們需要那種有道德的領導能力和勇氣存在於世間。我們一起在這世界面對著很大的難題 –金融風暴,全球暖化這恐懼感覺及人與人之間的差異。每一天我們都有選擇。我們可走捷徑,憤世嫉俗的路,這條路是源自對未曾存在的過去之遐想,一種互相忌憚,保持距離和推卸責任,或我們可走一條更加困難的路就是蛻變, 理性之升華,惻隱之心和愛心,還有責任感和正義。 我感到光榮能夠跟兒童心理學家羅拔 • 高思博士合作他在美國黑人民權運動期間曾經支持社會變革。他講到這一個故事關於一個六歲小女孩名叫葫芘 • 畢狄士,在南部廢止種族隔離學校的第一個孩子 –這是在新奧爾良。他說每天這六歲的, 穿著她美麗的裙子,步履優雅走進一個白人叢中憤怒地尖叫著, 喊她為妖怪,恐嚇會毒死她 –扭曲的臉。他每天都會察看著她,見她彷彿在跟他人談話。他會說, ""葫芘, 你在說什麼?""她會說, ""我不曾講話。""最後他說, ""葫比, 我看到你講話。你在說什麼呢?""她説, ""高思博士, 我沒有説話;我在禱告。""他又說, ""那好, 你在祈求什麼呢?""她說, ""我祈求, 父親原諒他們因他們不知自己在做什麼。""才六歲,這小孩已活於大度之中,她的家人因此而付出代價。但她成為了歷史傳奇更開放了這個理念任何人都有權接受教育。 我最後講的故事是關於一個年輕, 美麗的男人名叫祖士發 • 比互亨加他是另一位雅決文基金之友他呼喚於烏干達, 一個農業社區我們將他駐於肯尼亞之西,只200里之外。他在最後一年跟我說,""積奇蓮, 這真使人謙卑,因為我想我既為一個非洲農夫我會明白到怎樣去令文化升華。但尤其當我跟非洲婦女談話,我時常會犯錯 –要我學習聆聽真是很困難。""他又說, ""所以我總括, 在多方面,領導才能就好像稻米穗。在節令高峯,在它力量之巔,它是美麗的, 翠綠的, 滋養著世界,它直達蒼天。""他又說, ""但在收割之前,它彎下來擁有無比謝意和謙遜去接觸著它來自的土壤。"" 我們是需要領袖的。我們自己需要去引領由一個大膽的地方去相信自己能夠伸延出一個基本臆說就是人人平等在這星球上的每一個男人, 女人和小孩。我們要謙虛地承認我們沒法獨自做得到。羅伯特 • 甘迺迪曾說""我們沒有幾個人可以扭轉歷史,但每一個人可以做到的是去改變一小部份的事情。然而就是那所有行動的總和能寫下這一代的歷史。""我們的生命是多麼短暫,我們在這星球的時間是多麼保貴,我們擁有的只有大家。因此願你每一位都活於大度之中。雖生活未必會輕鬆,但到最後, 只有這樣才能支撐你我。 謝謝。 「掌聲」"
