Talk	en	zh-tw
jacqueline_novogratz_invests_in_ending_poverty	"I want to start with a story, a la Seth Godin, from when I was 12 years old. My uncle Ed gave me a beautiful blue sweater — at least I thought it was beautiful. And it had fuzzy zebras walking across the stomach, and Mount Kilimanjaro and Mount Meru were kind of right across the chest, that were also fuzzy. And I wore it whenever I could, thinking it was the most fabulous thing I owned. Until one day in ninth grade, when I was standing with a number of the football players. And my body had clearly changed, and Matt, who was undeniably my nemesis in high school, said in a booming voice that we no longer had to go far away to go on ski trips, but we could all ski on Mount Novogratz. (Laughter) And I was so humiliated and mortified that I immediately ran home to my mother and chastised her for ever letting me wear the hideous sweater. We drove to the Goodwill and we threw the sweater away somewhat ceremoniously, my idea being that I would never have to think about the sweater nor see it ever again. Fast forward — 11 years later, I'm a 25-year-old kid. I'm working in Kigali, Rwanda, jogging through the steep slopes, when I see, 10 feet in front of me, a little boy — 11 years old — running toward me, wearing my sweater. And I'm thinking, no, this is not possible. But so, curious, I run up to the child — of course scaring the living bejesus out of him — grab him by the collar, turn it over, and there is my name written on the collar of this sweater. I tell that story, because it has served and continues to serve as a metaphor to me about the level of connectedness that we all have on this Earth. We so often don't realize what our action and our inaction does to people we think we will never see and never know. I also tell it because it tells a larger contextual story of what aid is and can be. That this traveled into the Goodwill in Virginia, and moved its way into the larger industry, which at that point was giving millions of tons of secondhand clothing to Africa and Asia. Which was a very good thing, providing low cost clothing. And at the same time, certainly in Rwanda, it destroyed the local retailing industry. Not to say that it shouldn't have, but that we have to get better at answering the questions that need to be considered when we think about consequences and responses. So, I'm going to stick in Rwanda, circa 1985, 1986, where I was doing two things. I had started a bakery with 20 unwed mothers. We were called the ""Bad News Bears,"" and our notion was we were going to corner the snack food business in Kigali, which was not hard because there were no snacks before us. And because we had a good business model, we actually did it, and I watched these women transform on a micro-level. But at the same time, I started a micro-finance bank, and tomorrow Iqbal Quadir is going to talk about Grameen, which is the grandfather of all micro-finance banks, which now is a worldwide movement — you talk about a meme — but then it was quite new, especially in an economy that was moving from barter into trade. We got a lot of things right. We focused on a business model; we insisted on skin in the game. The women made their own decisions at the end of the day as to how they would use this access to credit to build their little businesses, earn more income so they could take care of their families better. What we didn't understand, what was happening all around us, with the confluence of fear, ethnic strife and certainly an aid game, if you will, that was playing into this invisible but certainly palpable movement inside Rwanda, that at that time, 30 percent of the budget was all foreign aid. The genocide happened in 1994, seven years after these women all worked together to build this dream. And the good news was that the institution, the banking institution, lasted. In fact, it became the largest rehabilitation lender in the country. The bakery was completely wiped out, but the lessons for me were that accountability counts — got to build things with people on the ground, using business models where, as Steven Levitt would say, the incentives matter. Understand, however complex we may be, incentives matter. So when Chris raised to me how wonderful everything that was happening in the world, that we were seeing a shift in zeitgeist, on the one hand I absolutely agree with him, and I was so thrilled to see what happened with the G8 — that the world, because of people like Tony Blair and Bono and Bob Geldof — the world is talking about global poverty; the world is talking about Africa in ways I have never seen in my life. It's thrilling. And at the same time, what keeps me up at night is a fear that we'll look at the victories of the G8 — 50 billion dollars in increased aid to Africa, 40 billion in reduced debt — as the victory, as more than chapter one, as our moral absolution. And in fact, what we need to do is see that as chapter one, celebrate it, close it, and recognize that we need a chapter two that is all about execution, all about the how-to. And if you remember one thing from what I want to talk about today, it's that the only way to end poverty, to make it history, is to build viable systems on the ground that deliver critical and affordable goods and services to the poor, in ways that are financially sustainable and scaleable. If we do that, we really can make poverty history. And it was that — that whole philosophy — that encouraged me to start my current endeavor called ""Acumen Fund,"" which is trying to build some mini-blueprints for how we might do that in water, health and housing in Pakistan, India, Kenya, Tanzania and Egypt. And I want to talk a little bit about that, and some of the examples, so you can see what it is that we're doing. But before I do this — and this is another one of my pet peeves — I want to talk a little bit about who the poor are. Because we too often talk about them as these strong, huge masses of people yearning to be free, when in fact, it's quite an amazing story. On a macro level, four billion people on Earth make less than four dollars a day. That's who we talk about when we think about ""the poor."" If you aggregate it, it's the third largest economy on Earth, and yet most of these people go invisible. Where we typically work, there's people making between one and three dollars a day. Who are these people? They are farmers and factory workers. They work in government offices. They're drivers. They are domestics. They typically pay for critical goods and services like water, like healthcare, like housing, and they pay 30 to 40 times what their middleclass counterparts pay — certainly where we work in Karachi and Nairobi. The poor also are willing to make, and do make, smart decisions, if you give them that opportunity. So, two examples. One is in India, where there are 240 million farmers, most of whom make less than two dollars a day. Where we work in Aurangabad, the land is extraordinarily parched. You see people on average making 60 cents to a dollar. This guy in pink is a social entrepreneur named Ami Tabar. What he did was see what was happening in Israel, larger approaches, and figure out how to do a drip irrigation, which is a way of bringing water directly to the plant stock. But previously it's only been created for large-scale farms, so Ami Tabar took this and modularized it down to an eighth of an acre. A couple of principles: build small. Make it infinitely expandable and affordable to the poor. This family, Sarita and her husband, bought a 15-dollar unit when they were living in a — literally a three-walled lean-to with a corrugated iron roof. After one harvest, they had increased their income enough to buy a second system to do their full quarter-acre. A couple of years later, I meet them. They now make four dollars a day, which is pretty much middle class for India, and they showed me the concrete foundation they had just laid to build their house. And I swear, you could see the future in that woman's eyes. Something I truly believe. You can't talk about poverty today without talking about malaria bed nets, and I again give Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard huge kudos for bringing to the world this notion of his rage — for five dollars you can save a life. Malaria is a disease that kills one to three million people a year. 300 to 500 million cases are reported. It's estimated that Africa loses about 13 billion dollars a year to the disease. Five dollars can save a life. We can send people to the moon; we can see if there's life on Mars — why can't we get five-dollar nets to 500 million people? The question, though, is not ""Why can't we?"" The question is how can we help Africans do this for themselves? A lot of hurdles. One: production is too low. Two: price is too high. Three: this is a good road in — right near where our factory is located. Distribution is a nightmare, but not impossible. We started by making a 350,000-dollar loan to the largest traditional bed net manufacturer in Africa so that they could transfer technology from Japan and build these long-lasting, five-year nets. Here are just some pictures of the factory. Today, three years later, the company has employed another thousand women. It contributes about 600,000 dollars in wages to the economy of Tanzania. It's the largest company in Tanzania. The throughput rate right now is 1.5 million nets, three million by the end of the year. We hope to have seven million at the end of next year. So the production side is working. On the distribution side, though, as a world, we have a lot of work to do. Right now, 95 percent of these nets are being bought by the U.N., and then given primarily to people around Africa. We're looking at building on some of the most precious resources of Africa: people. Their women. And so I want you to meet Jacqueline, my namesake, 21 years old. If she were born anywhere else but Tanzania, I'm telling you, she could run Wall Street. She runs two of the lines, and has already saved enough money to put a down payment on her house. She makes about two dollars a day, is creating an education fund, and told me she is not marrying nor having children until these things are completed. And so, when I told her about our idea — that maybe we could take a Tupperware model from the United States, and find a way for the women themselves to go out and sell these nets to others — she quickly started calculating what she herself could make and signed up. We took a lesson from IDEO, one of our favorite companies, and quickly did a prototyping on this, and took Jacqueline into the area where she lives. She brought 10 of the women with whom she interacts together to see if she could sell these nets, five dollars apiece, despite the fact that people say nobody will buy one, and we learned a lot about how you sell things. Not coming in with our own notions, because she didn't even talk about malaria until the very end. First, she talked about comfort, status, beauty. These nets, she said, you put them on the floor, bugs leave your house. Children can sleep through the night; the house looks beautiful; you hang them in the window. And we've started making curtains, and not only is it beautiful, but people can see status — that you care about your children. Only then did she talk about saving your children's lives. A lot of lessons to be learned in terms of how we sell goods and services to the poor. I want to end just by saying that there's enormous opportunity to make poverty history. To do it right, we have to build business models that matter, that are scaleable and that work with Africans, Indians, people all over the developing world who fit in this category, to do it themselves. Because at the end of the day, it's about engagement. It's about understanding that people really don't want handouts, that they want to make their own decisions; they want to solve their own problems; and that by engaging with them, not only do we create much more dignity for them, but for us as well. And so I urge all of you to think next time as to how to engage with this notion and this opportunity that we all have — to make poverty history — by really becoming part of the process and moving away from an us-and-them world, and realizing that it's about all of us, and the kind of world that we, together, want to live in and share. Thank you. (Applause)"	我從一個有Godin (註：行銷學大師)味道的故事開始在我十二歲的時候我的叔叔艾德給了我一件漂亮的藍色毛衣至少我認爲挺漂亮的在腹部這裡有很炫的斑馬胸部則有吉利馬扎儸山和梅魯山為背景這也是很炫的。我到哪裏都穿著這件毛衣我覺得這是我得到最棒的東西 直到我九年級的有一天我跟一些足球隊的人站在一起我當時已經發育，身體有了變化我高中的死對頭 Matt Mussolina用很大的聲音說：以後我們不需要去山上滑雪了就在你胸前的這座山滑就好了。（笑聲）我真是羞愧得快死了我立刻跑回家並責怪我媽她不該讓我穿這件衣服出去丟臉我們開車去把毛衣送到Goodwill的舊衣回收象徵性地，我想說我不會再看到這件毛衣這件事就從此過去了。 十一年後，我25歲我在盧安達的奇佳利工作，有一天在慢跑突然看到一個11歲的小男孩，在我10尺前向我跑過來，竟穿著我那件毛衣我想了想，不會吧，這不可能但是，在好奇心的驅使下，我攔下他把他嚇歪了我抓著他的衣領，翻過來一看，果然上面寫著我的名字。 我講這個故事，因爲這是個很好的例子説明了在這個地球上我們是如何的緊密地連在一起。我們通常沒有認知到，我們的一舉一動對不認識的人的影響。放遠一點看，這個例子也説明了援助計劃的内容和作用。這件衣服被放到 Goodwill 的舊衣回收點再匯集到舊衣回收業裏當時幾百萬噸的二手衣會送到亞洲、非洲。提供便宜的衣服，這不是壞事。但在同一時間，至少在盧安達這些衣服卻也摧毀了當地的成衣業。我不是說我們不該回收舊衣而是我們應該提供更全面性的解答該想清楚可能帶來的後果和回應。 再回來談談盧安達，1985，1986年左右我在那裏做兩件事我和20個未婚媽媽開了一間麵包店叫做“壞消息大熊”我們想要壟斷奇佳利的點心市場這並不難，因爲在那之前並沒有點心店。因爲我們成功的商業模式，我們也的確辦到了我也看到這些婦女們身上的轉變。同一時間我創辦了一間小額信貸銀行明天Iqbal Quadir 會跟大家談到Garmeen這是所有小額信貸銀行的祖宗現在已經是全球性的活動但在當時還是很新的概念，特別是在以物易物的經濟環境裏 我們作對了很多事我們強調自我投資這些婦女們可以自己做決定自己決定如何使用這些貸款來建立自己的小事業，賺更多的錢來好好照顧自己的家庭。 我們那時沒了解的是，在我們的周圍充斥的恐懼、種族衝突還有這個兒戲一般的援助計劃雖然看不到卻垂手可得當時盧安達的預算，30%是國際援助。這些婦女開始一起工作來實現夢想，七年以後1994年發生了種族大屠殺。幸好的是，銀行在大屠殺其間沒被破壞。後來還變成了重建期最大的貸方。麵包店已經被完全摧毀但我也學到了，重要的是：要在當地和人們一起建設如 Steven Levitt 說的，使用適用于當地的商業模式。要去了解，雖然不是那麽容易，當地的動機。 當 Chris 跟我提到說，現在世上發生的一些事是多麽的美好，我們正在目睹時代的轉變一方面我很同意他的說法我很興奮地看到G8峰會裏有了像布萊爾(Tony Blair)、波諾(Bono)、Bob Geldof 這樣的人，大家注意到了全球貧窮的問題也談論到了非洲的問題這是我活到現在第一次看到的。真是令人興奮。另一方面，我還是擔心大家滿足于G8的勝利500億美元援非400億美元的債務消除當作我們道德良心恕罪的完結篇。 事實上，我們要把這當作第一章慶祝、了結後，開始寫第二章第二章是有關執行的方法論我今天的演講你們要是只想記得一件事那就請你們記得：要終結貧窮就要在當地建立可以持久的系統來提供重要而不貴的商品和服務給貧苦人家並在財務上可大可小、源遠流長。如果我們能辦到，那才是真正地終結貧窮。 在這樣的理念下我開始了目前的奮鬥叫做Acumen基金會我要試著在巴基斯坦、印度、肯亞、坦桑尼亞、埃及、作一些水利、健康、住房試驗的小計劃。我想多談談這些計劃、例子你們才可以看出我們在幹什麽。但是，還有一點讓我個人覺得特別受不了的我想先從“窮人”的定義談起我們常常覺得“窮人”是這一大堆一大票想要獲得自由的人但是，背後事實上是令人吃驚的故事。就宏觀的角度看來，地球上有40億的人每天花不到4美元。 這是我們想要討論的對象你如果把他們加在一起，他們是世界的第三大國然而大部分的人是沒有聲音的在我們服務的地方有人一天只花一到三美元。他們是誰？他們是農夫和工廠工人他們是公務員，司機或是家庭勞務提供者。對於水電、醫藥、住房等重要項目跟他們同國的中產階級比起來他們得多付出30到40倍的支出特別是在卡拉蚩、奈洛比等地方。窮人們也願意去做聰明的決策如果你給他們機會的話。 這裡有兩個例子：第一個在印度，印度2.4億的農夫大部分每人每天只有2美金的花費在我們工作的Aurangabad，土地是十分的乾燥一般的人平均只能賺到60美分到一美元這個穿粉紅色襯衫的企業家叫Ami Tabar他參考了以色列的農耕方式用很精確的灌溉管道把水引到植物的根部。但是以前這是用於大規模的農業Ami Tabar 把這套系統縮小到適用于8英畝的地有以下幾條準則用小規格讓窮人買得起也預留以後的擴張性。 這家人，Sarita 和她先生花15美金買了這一套當時他們住在家徒四壁的破鐵皮屋頂下。經過一年的收穫，他們有了足夠的收入又買了第二套，擴充到4英畝。幾年後，我又遇到他們他們現在一天賺4美金，幾乎是印度中產階級的水準他們也帶我看了為了房子剛鋪下的水泥地基。你真的可以在她的眼裏看到未來。我也真的如此相信。 在今天談到貧窮就不能不提瘧疾和蚊帳再一次地我要把這榮耀歸給哈佛的Jeffrey Sachs教授，感謝他在全球到處推廣“5美金救一命” 的活動。瘧疾每年可以奪走1到3百萬條人命並造成3到5億的受害者據估計每年在非洲瘧疾造成130億美金的損害。5美元可以救一條命。我們可以送人到月球，或是去看火星上有沒有生命為什麽不送給5億人一個5美金的蚊帳？ 問題不在於，爲什麽我們不做而在於，我們該如何幫助非洲人自己生産？有幾道障礙一：產量太低。二：價格太高。三：這是我們工廠附近的一條“好路”。運輸是一場噩夢，但不是不可能。我們從一筆35萬美金的貸款開始借給非洲最大傳統蚊帳工廠使他們能從日本做科技轉移來生產這種耐用五年的蚊帳。這裡是一些工廠的照片。 三年後，在今天這公司已雇用一千名的女工。為坦桑尼亞的經濟提供了60萬美元的工資成了坦桑尼亞最大的公司。生産量為150萬張蚊帳到年底會達到3百萬。我們希望到明年底可以達到7百萬。在生産面上是還可以但是產品運輸上我們還有很多工作要做。現在95%的蚊帳是聯合國買去的再轉送給非洲其他的人。我們希望能善用非洲最珍貴的資源之一，當地的人非洲女人。 我要介紹給你們認識，她跟我同名也叫賈克琳，21歲她要不是出生在坦桑尼亞那我告訴你，她早就是華爾街的女強人了。她同時管理兩條生産線，已經存夠一些錢為她的房子付了頭期款。她每天賺大概2美金，還在存一個教育基金她告訴我，在這些目標沒達到之前她不會結婚或是生小孩。當我告訴她我的想法我們可能可以套用美國家庭直銷的模式讓當地的婦女也出去到家家戶戶賣蚊帳的時候她很快地算了算能賺多少就加入了。 我們從我們最喜歡的公司IEDO學了幾課很快地設計出一套原型帶著賈桂琳到她住的地方。她帶來了十個婦女看看能不能用5美金的價格賣這些蚊帳雖然沒人看好她我們卻從她身上學到了很多販賣技巧。這跟我們的想法完全不同因爲她把瘧疾留到最後才談。一開始，她談到舒適、地位、美觀她說，把蚊帳放在地上，蟲子就不會進屋小孩可以整晚安穩地睡掛在窗戶上的話，房子看起來更漂亮我們也開始生産窗簾不止因爲窗簾看起來漂亮，人們也可以看到你的地位看得出你很關心小孩在這時候，她才談到了蚊帳可以救小孩的命。所以，如何買東西和服務給窮人我們還有很多要學的。 最後我想說，現在有很多機會可以使貧窮成爲過去。為了做對的事，我們必須建立正確的商業模式能適用於非洲、印度或是全球發展中地區貧窮的人使他們能自立更生因爲，到最後，需要的是大家的參與需要去了解，施捨並不是人們要的人們想要自己做決定想要能自己解決自己的問題讓他們一同參與這不只帶給他們更多的尊嚴也是為我們帶來尊嚴。所以我希望大家下次都去想一想如何善用這個想法和機會使貧窮變成過去讓大家能一同參與揚棄以前那種你是你，我是我的心態要了解這是與“我們”都有關的與我們一同要居住和分享的世界息息相關謝謝（掌聲）
