Talk	en	zh-tw
jacqueline_novogratz_a_third_way_to_think_about_aid	"Clearly, we're living in a moment of crisis. Arguably the financial markets have failed us and the aid system is failing us, and yet I stand firmly with the optimists who believe that there has probably never been a more exciting moment to be alive. Because of some of technologies we've been talking about. Because of the resources, the skills, and certainly the surge of talent we're seeing all around the world, with the mindset to create change. And we've got a president who sees himself as a global citizen, who recognizes that no longer is there a single superpower, but that we've got to engage in a different way with the world. And by definition, every one of you who is in this room must consider yourself a global soul, a global citizen. You work on the front lines. And you've seen the best and the worst that human beings can do for one another and to one another. And no matter what country you live or work in, you've also seen the extraordinary things that individuals are capable of, even in their most ordinariness. Today there is a raging debate as to how best we lift people out of poverty, how best we release their energies. On the one hand, we have people that say the aid system is so broken we need to throw it out. And on the other we have people who say the problem is that we need more aid. And what I want to talk about is something that compliments both systems. We call it patient capital. The critics point to the 500 billion dollars spent in Africa since 1970 and say, and what do we have but environmental degradation and incredible levels of poverty, rampant corruption? They use Mobutu as metaphor. And their policy prescription is to make government more accountable, focus on the capital markets, invest, don't give anything away. On the other side, as I said, there are those who say the problem is that we need more money. That when it comes to the rich, we'll bail out and we'll hand a lot of aid, but when it comes to our poor brethren, we want little to do with it. They point to the successes of aid: the eradication of smallpox, and the distribution of tens of millions of malaria bed nets and antiretrovirals. Both sides are right. And the problem is that neither side is listening to the other. Even more problematic, they're not listening to poor people themselves. After 25 years of working on issues of poverty and innovation, it's true that there are probably no more market-oriented individuals on the planet than low-income people. They must navigate markets daily, making micro-decisions, dozens and dozens, to move their way through society, and yet if a single catastrophic health problem impacts their family, they could be put back into poverty, sometimes for generations. And so we need both the market and we need aid. Patient capital works between, and tries to take the best of both. It's money that's invested in entrepreneurs who know their communities and are building solutions to healthcare, water, housing, alternative energy, thinking of low income people not as passive recipients of charity, but as individual customers, consumers, clients, people who want to make decisions in their own lives. Patient capital requires that we have incredible tolerance for risk, a long time horizon in terms of allowing those entrepreneurs time to experiment, to use the market as the best listening device that we have, and the expectation of below-market returns, but outsized social impact. It recognizes that the market has its limitation, and so patient capital also works with smart subsidy to extend the benefits of a global economy to include all people. Now, entrepreneurs need patient capital for three reasons. First, they tend to work in markets where people make one, two, three dollars a day and they are making all of their decisions within that income level. Second, the geographies in which they work have terrible infrastructure — no roads to speak of, sporadic electricity and high levels of corruption. Third, they are often creating markets. Even if you're bringing clean water for the first time into rural villages, it is something new. And so many low-income people have seen so many failed promises broken and seen so many quacks and sporadic medicines offered to them that building trust takes a lot of time, takes a lot of patience. It also requires being connected to a lot of management assistance. Not only to build the systems, the business models that allow us to reach low income people in a sustainable way, but to connect those business to other markets, to governments, to corporations — real partnerships if we want to get to scale. I want to share one story about an innovation called drip irrigation. In 2002 I met this incredible entrepreneur named Amitabha Sadangi from India, who'd been working for 20 years with some of the poorest farmers on the planet. And he was expressing his frustration that the aid market had bypassed low-income farmers altogether, despite the fact that 200 million farmers alone in India make under a dollar a day. They were creating subsidies either for large farms, or they were giving inputs to the farmers that they thought they should use, rather than that the farmers wanted to use. At the same time Amitabha was obsessed with this drip irrigation technology that had been invented in Israel. It was a way of bringing small amounts of water directly to the stalk of the plant. And it could transform swaths of desert land into fields of emerald green. But the market also had bypassed low income farmers, because these systems were both too expensive, and they were constructed for fields that were too large. The average small village farmer works on two acres or less. And so, Amitabha decided that he would take that innovation and he would redesign it from the perspective of the poor farmers themselves, because he spent so many years listening to what they needed not what he thought that they should have. And he used three fundamental principles. The first one was miniaturization. The drip irrigation system had to be small enough that a farmer only had to risk a quarter acre, even if he had two, because it was too frightening, given all that he had at stake. Second, it had to be extremely affordable. In other words, that risk on the quarter acre needed to be repaid in a single harvest, or else they wouldn't take the risk. And third, it had to be what Amitabha calls infinitely expandable. What I mean is with the profits from the first quarter acre, the farmers could buy a second and a third and a fourth. As of today, IDE India, Amitabha's organization, has sold over 300,000 farmers these systems and has seen their yields and incomes double or triple on average, but this didn't happen overnight. In fact, when you go back to the beginning, there were no private investors who would be willing to take a risk on building a new technology for a market class that made under a dollar a day, that were known to be some of the most risk-averse people on the planet and that were working in one of the riskiest sectors, agriculture. And so we needed grants. And he used significant grants to research, to experiment, to fail, to innovate and try again. And when he had a prototype and had a better understanding of how to market to farmers, that's when patient capital could come in. And we helped him build a company, for profit, that would build on IDE's knowledge, and start looking at sales and exports, and be able to tap into other kinds of capital. Secondarily, we wanted to see if we could export this drip irrigation and bring it into other countries. And so we met Dr. Sono Khangharani in Pakistan. And while, again, you needed patience to move a technology for the poor in India into Pakistan, just to get the permits, over time we were able to start a company with Dr. Sono, who runs a large community development organization in the Thar Desert, which is one of the remote and poorest areas of the country. And though that company has just started, our assumption is that there too we'll see the impact on millions. But drip irrigation isn't the only innovation. We're starting to see these happening all around the world. In Arusha, Tanzania, A to Z Textile Manufacturing has worked in partnership with us, with UNICEF, with the Global Fund, to create a factory that now employs 7,000 people, mostly women. And they produce 20 million lifesaving bednets for Africans around the world. Lifespring Hospital is a joint venture between Acumen and the government of India to bring quality, affordable maternal health care to low-income women, and it's been so successful that it's currently building a new hospital every 35 days. And 1298 Ambulances decided that it was going to reinvent a completely broken industry, building an ambulance service in Bombay that would use the technology of Google Earth, a sliding scale pricing system so that all people could have access, and a severe and public decision not to engage in any form of corruption. So that in the terrorist attacks of November they were the first responder, and are now beginning to scale, because of partnership. They've just won four government contracts to build off their 100 ambulances, and are one of the largest and most effective ambulance companies in India. This idea of scale is critical. Because we're starting to see these enterprises reach hundreds of thousands of people. All of the ones I discussed have reached at least a quarter million people. But that's obviously not enough. And it's where the idea of partnership becomes so important. Whether it's by finding those innovations that can access the capital markets, government itself, or partner with major corporations, there is unbelievable opportunity for innovation. President Obama understands that. He recently authorized the creation of a Social Innovation Fund to focus on what works in this country, and look at how we can scale it. And I would submit that it's time to consider a global innovation fund that would find these entrepreneurs around the world who really have innovations, not only for their country, but ones that we can use in the developed world as well. Invest financial assistance, but also management assistance. And then measure the returns, both from a financial perspective and from a social impact perspective. When we think about new approaches to aid, it's impossible not to talk about Pakistan. We've had a rocky relationship with that country and, in all fairness, the United States has not always been a very reliable partner. But again I would say that this is our moment for extraordinary things to happen. And if we take that notion of a global innovation fund, we could use this time to invest not directly in government, though we would have government's blessing, nor in international experts, but in the many existing entrepreneurs and civil society leaders who already are building wonderful innovations that are reaching people all across the country. People like Rashani Zafar, who created one of the largest microfinance banks in the country, and is a real role model for women inside and outside the country. And Tasneem Siddiqui, who developed a way called incremental housing, where he has moved 40,000 slum dwellers into safe, affordable community housing. Educational initiatives like DIL and The Citizen Foundation that are building schools across the country. It's not hyperbole to say that these civil society institutions and these social entrepreneurs are building real alternatives to the Taliban. I've invested in Pakistan for over seven years now, and those of you who've also worked there can attest that Pakistanis are an incredibly hard working population, and there is a fierce upward mobility in their very nature. President Kennedy said that those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable. I would say that the converse is true. That these social leaders who really are looking at innovation and extending opportunity to the 70 percent of Pakistanis who make less than two dollars a day, provide real pathways to hope. And as we think about how we construct aid for Pakistan, while we need to strengthen the judiciary, build greater stability, we also need to think about lifting those leaders who can be role models for the rest of the world. On one of my last visits to Pakistan, I asked Dr. Sono if he would take me to see some of the drip irrigation in the Thar Desert. And we left Karachi one morning before dawn. It was about 115 degrees. And we drove for eight hours along this moonscape-like landscape with very little color, lots of heat, very little discussion, because we were exhausted. And finally, at the end of the journey, I could see this thin little yellow line across the horizon. And as we got closer, its significance became apparent. That there in the desert was a field of sunflowers growing seven feet tall. Because one of the poorest farmers on Earth had gotten access to a technology that had allowed him to change his own life. His name was Raja, and he had kind, twinkly hazel eyes and warm expressive hands that reminded me of my father. And he said it was the first dry season in his entire life that he hadn't taken his 12 children and 50 grandchildren on a two day journey across the desert to work as day laborers at a commercial farm for about 50 cents a day. Because he was building these crops. And with the money he earned he could stay this year. And for the first time ever in three generations, his children would go to school. We asked him if he would send his daughters as well as his sons. And he said, ""Of course I will. Because I don't want them discriminated against anymore."" When we think about solutions to poverty, we cannot deny individuals their fundamental dignity. Because at the end of the day, dignity is more important to the human spirit than wealth. And what's exciting is to see so many entrepreneurs across sectors who are building innovations that recognize that what people want is freedom and choice and opportunity. Because that is where dignity really starts. Martin Luther King said that love without power is anemic and sentimental, and that power without love is reckless and abusive. Our generation has seen both approaches tried, and often fail. But I think our generation also might be the first to have the courage to embrace both love and power. For that is what we'll need, as we move forward to dream and imagine what it will really take to build a global economy that includes all of us, and to finally extend that fundamental proposition that all men are created equal to every human being on the planet. The time for us to begin innovating and looking for new solutions, a cross sector, is now. I can only talk from my own experience, but in eight years of running Acumen fund, I've seen the power of patient capital. Not only to inspire innovation and risk taking, but to truly build systems that have created more than 25,000 jobs and delivered tens of millions of services and products to some of the poorest people on the planet. I know it works. But I know that many other kinds of innovation also work. And so I urge you, in whatever sector you work, in whatever job you do, to start thinking about how we might build solutions that start from the perspective of those we're trying to help. Rather than what we think that they might need. It will take embracing the world with both arms. And it will take living with the spirit of generosity and accountability, with a sense of integrity and perseverance. And yet these are the very qualities for which men and women have been honored throughout the generations. And there is so much good that we can do. Just think of all those sunflowers in the desert. Thank you. (Applause)"	"很顯然地，我們現在的生活處處充滿危機我們不但對金融體系失去信心連對援助系統也是。即使如此，我還是樂觀地認為再也沒有比現在更令人興奮的時刻了。想想現在我們所談論的科技想想我們有的這些資源，技能當然還有來自世界各地，不斷湧現的各式各樣的人才和他們那顆勇於突破現狀的決心。我們還有個自許為世界公民的總統他不只體認到單一強權的時代已不復存在和世界溝通的方式也必須改變。 因此，在此的每一個人一定要把自己當做全球的一份子視自己為世界的公民。你們都是第一線的工作者，看盡了人性中最美好和最悲慘的事。不論你們在哪一個國家工作或是生活你們都應該見識過，即使在最平凡的人身上也有成就不平凡事業的可能。 今時今日一個關於如何消弭貧窮的議題正被激烈的討論著究竟我們該如何幫助窮人發揮他們的潛能。一方面，有人認為援助系統瀕臨崩潰，應該要放棄。另一方面，也有人認為還需要更多的援助。在這裡我想談的是一種能讓雙方都接受的方法我們稱之為＂耐心資本＂。 有批評指出，從1970年開始，算算已有5000億資金投入非洲結果呢？只造成當地環境惡化令人難以置信的貧困，和貪汙腐敗嗎？他們拿蒙博托（剛果的獨裁者）做例子。認為增強政府公信力是最好的解決方法。然後只把錢投資在資本市場純粹投資，而不做任何捐助。 另一邊呢？像我之前提的，有人認為問題在於我們投入援助的錢還不夠。當服務的對象是有錢人時，大家很樂意錦上添花，加碼提供贊助。但當談到這些窮人時願意雪中送炭的人就非常有限。他們提到一個援助的成功案例：天花的消滅還有透過運送數以千萬的蚊帳及藥物才得到根除的瘧疾。雙方說法都對但問題在於雙方都各持己見更糟的是，根本沒人去了解窮人的心聲。 25年來我一直專注於貧窮和創新的問題上這是個事實：沒有任何人會比低收入的窮人更受市場影響。他們每天被迫跟著市場環境為生活中的細節，做出一個又一個的決定好讓日子能過下去。如果出現一個災難性的健康問題降臨到他們的家庭可能令好幾世代就此又陷入貧窮。所以我們需要資本市場援助系統也不能少。 耐心資本剛好在中間企圖擷取兩邊的優點。這資本用來投資熟知當地環境的創業家，使他們進而提出解決方案致力於改善醫療品質，提昇水質及住房環境，以及能源替代方案等我們不該把窮人想成是只會被動地接受援助而是和一般獨立個體，消費者及客戶一樣該是掌控自己的命運的人。 耐心資本需要的是能高度承受風險並且給這些創業家們足夠的時間實踐他們的計劃而且願意傾聽市場的聲音期待的並非是高額的投資回報而是擴大對社會的影響。意識到市場的侷限性，所以耐心資本也藉由更有效的補貼方案擴大對全球經濟的效益影響層面將擴及所有的人。 基於三個原因創業家需要耐心資本。第一，他們所運作的市場人們每天收入不到3美元所有生活中的決定受限於這微薄收入。第二，他們所在的地理環境基礎建設嚴重缺乏沒有可辨認的道路，也稱不上有電力系統貪汙腐敗更是猖獗。第三，那是個待創造開發的市場 像乾淨的水這麽平凡的東西在偏僻村落，都還是前所未見的商品。這些人經歷過很多次＂狼來了＂也接受過許多庸醫的治療和零星藥品的援助所以要取得他們的信任需要很長的時間很多的耐心。後續的支援管理也很重要。不是只有初期的系統架構建立能深入窮人生活和長久持續的商業模式，還要進一步幫他們創造能與其他市場，政府機關，公司團體相互連結的環境唯有如此，才能達到我們預期的目標。 在這，我想和大家分享一個案例關於一個＂滴水灌概＂的創新計劃。2002時我遇見這個了不起的創業家Amitabha Sadangi, 印度人20年來他一直致力於幫助世界上最貧困的農民他不斷向我表達他的沮喪因為援助系統早已忘了這群窮苦的人事實上，光在印度就有2億的農民每天只靠1美元過活。有一些補助金額除了給大的農場使用也直接給這些農民們並規定這些農民該如何使用補助款而沒有詢問農民們想怎麽用。 同時Amitabha對來自以色列的＂滴水灌溉＂技術相當感興趣。它將少量的水直接灌溉在植物的根莖部而且它可以把連綿的沙漠荒地變成滿地翠綠。但這技術仍舊幫不上貧苦農夫的忙。因為相關設施非常昂貴土地面積要達到相當的規模才適用。而這些村落的農夫所耕種的土地面積也不過就一二畝罷了。 所以Amitabha決定改造這個創新技術重新設計一個符合這些農夫需求的灌溉系統。他花了很多年，了解他們真正所需而非憑自己一廂情願的想法同時設定三個基本原則 第一，小型化縮小滴水灌溉系統要小到讓這些農民只需使用1/4畝的土地去試即使他有二畝地如果必須使用所有的地，對農民來說風險太大了。第二，要農民負擔得起也就是說，如果不幸失敗只需一季收成就能回補損失否則沒人會願意冒險的。第三，Amitabha認為要能無限擴展意思是由第一個1/4畝地所賺到的利潤能夠再買第二套設備甚至第三套，第四套.... 直至今日，Amitabha成立的組織IDE已售出30萬套這種系統而且這些農民的收益報酬都達以往的2倍，甚至3倍。當然，這些成功並非一夕之間發生事實上，一開始時沒有任何一個私人投資者願意冒風險投資在日收入只有一美元的市場而且這市場充斥著對風險亳無招架之力的一群人更何況農業投資的風險本身已很高。 所以我們需要資金，讓他可以利用大量資金從事研究，做實驗，歷經失敗並且再接再厲。一旦具體計劃成形對於如何將系統賣給農民有好的方法時也就是耐心資本投入的時點這時我們幫助他成立公司，不但以獲利為目標也藉由IDE的專業尋求擴大營業規摸並增加產品出口的機會進而引進其他資金管道。 第二，我們也計劃將滴水灌溉系統出口至其他國家。所以我們也拜訪了巴基斯坦的Sono Khangharani 博士一段時間後，同樣地，藉由耐心資本投入我們有機會將這新技術由印度引進巴基斯坦只要取得許可經過一段時間規劃我們得以和在塔爾沙漠這個印度最偏僻最貧困的地區之一擁有大型社區發展組織的Sono博士共同成立公司。雖然公司才剛成立但我們預測它能影響千萬的窮苦人民。 滴水灌溉並非唯一的創新發明後續效應不斷在全世界被擴散蔓延。在坦桑尼亞的阿魯沙，A to Z 紡織廠也和我們一起連同聯合國兒童基金會以及全球基金創造了一個僱用7000名員工的工廠，而且大多是女性員工每年生產2千萬個防瘧疾的蚊帳給全世界的非洲人民。 源泉醫院由Acumen基金和印度政府合資成立目的是提供給低收入的產婦有品質，又能負擔得起的醫療照顧。這醫院做得非當成功平均每35天蓋一家新醫院。 ""1298 救護車"" 也計劃在這個瀕臨破產的行業重新投入資金他們在孟買設立救護車服務利用Google Earth技術和彈性的訂價系統使所有人都能使用這項服務而且所有決策採嚴謹公開的過程杜絕任何貪瀆行為。所以在去年11月孟買發生恐佈攻擊時""1298救護車""是最先抵達災難現場的之後隨著新伙伴加入，逐步擴大規模。他們才剛接受4個政府委託，建造100輛救護車的合約現在已然成為印度最具規模最有效率的救護車公司之一。 擴大規模的想法非常重要這些公司都有成千上百的員工，而我所提及的這些公司的員工總數超過二十五萬人。但這顯然不夠所以藉由合作，結合外界資源變得十分重要。如果這些創新技術能由資本市場取得資金或和政府，大企業合作未來都能創造無限的可能。 歐巴馬總統明白這個道理最近他授權創立了""社會創新基金""除了著眼於增進人民福址也追求世界福址。我認為現在是推廣""全球創新基金""的好時機去資助這些散佈在全球的創業家擁有對自己國家有貢獻的創新科技若能藉由財務支援，甚至提供管理系統協助就能將這些創新科技推廣至世界各地那麼不只在財務方面甚至是社會影響力層面都能獲得可觀報酬。 當我們談到新的援助方法時不可能不提到巴基斯坦。巴基斯坦和美國關係一直不太穩定事實上美國稱不上是個可以信賴的伙伴。但是我想再一次強調現在是個非常時刻。如果我們利用全球創新基金的概念不是直接投資政府雖然這麼做會少了當地政府的庇佑也不是投資於國際貿易而是投資現成的創業家或社會各階層領導者這些人有很棒的創新而且能造福全國的人。 例如Rashnai Zafar創辦世界上最大的小額信貸銀行也給全球女性樹立一個最好的榜樣還有Tasneem Siddiqui提出""增量住房""概念同時他成功地讓4萬個貧民窟的居民擁有安全，且負擔得起的住家。還有教育倡導者像是DIL以及公民基金會他們在全國各地創辦學校一點也不誇張的說這些公民社會組織以及社會創業家為當地人提供了塔利班以外的選擇。 我投資巴基斯坦已超過7年你們之中如果有人在那工作過都可以證明巴基斯坦人工作是非常認真的。積極向上是他們的天性 甘乃迪總統曾說過那些阻止和平改革發生的人往往促成暴力革命發生。我覺得這句話反過來說也很有道理這些社會領導者創新求變開拓機會讓大部份收入微薄的巴基斯坦人對未來燃起了新的希望。當我們為巴基斯坦建造援助系統的同時我們還需要藉助司法力量建立穩固的體系同時這些領導者也可以將其影響力擴及世界其他地區。 有次我去巴基斯坦時要求Sono醫生帶我去塔爾沙漠我想看看滴水灌溉設備在那使用的狀況天沒亮我們由Karachi出發氣溫高達華氏115度開了8小時的車沿途風景跟月球表面一樣千篇一律，而且熱氣持續來襲一路上我們沒什麼交談，因為大家都累壞了 最後終於抵達目的地遠遠望去，我看到一條細小的黃線靠近時才發現原來在這沙漠裡竟有一整片7呎高的向日葵這令人驚豔的沙漠綠洲來自一個貧苦的農民藉由科技的幫助讓他的生活從此得到改善這個人叫Raja。淡褐色的雙眼，溫和但烱烱有神一雙溫暖的大手讓我想到父親。 他告訴我，這是有始以來第一個乾季他不需要帶著12個孩子和50個孫子花2天時間橫渡沙漠為了換取一天50分的工錢到農場打零工。這全是因為他所種植的這些作物加上賣了的錢，今年全家人不再需要奔波勞碌了。這也是自祖父輩以降他的小孩終於有機會上學 我們問他對女兒會不會也一視同仁他回答說＂當然因為我不希望他們任何一個再受到歧視＂當我們思考著如何擺脫貧窮時我們不能忽略個人的基本尊嚴。終究到了最後人的尊嚴還是勝過所擁有的財富。令人興奮的是這麼多的創業家致力於突破創新，是因為他們了解到人們對自由的渴望對選擇及機會的渴求。這些都是人的基本尊嚴的要求。 馬丁路德曾經說過失去力量的愛，脆弱無力，容易生悲而失去愛的力量則顯得蠻橫無忌。在我們這個世代，我們二種方法都嘗試過多數以失敗告終我們這一代也許俱備了同時擁抱愛和力量的勇氣俱備了邁向夢想中想要建立的大公無私的全球經濟體系並且使＂人生而平等＂這一基礎民主思想得以拓展實現。 現在是該展開行動的時候了不分國界，尋求創新解決方案。在此我只能分享自身經驗但這八年來經營Acumen基金我深深感受到耐心資本的力量它不僅僅鼓勵創新和冒險事實上，它所建立起的系統創造了2萬5仟個工作機會提供了數以萬計的服務及產品給世界上最貧苦的一群人。我知道這概念會成功還有很多其他的創新也會成功 在此我懇請各位，不論你的專長領域也不論你做什麼工作請開始思考我們能提供的協助是不是他們真正所需要的而不是我們認為他們需要的。我願意用雙手擁抱這世界使我們的生活充滿了慷慨和責任心以及誠信和毅力。這些好的信念是我們代代相傳的榮耀和驕傲。但我們能做的事還有好多好多想想那些在沙漠裡盛開的向日葵吧！謝謝大家！(鼓掌)"
