Talk	en	zh-tw
jae_rhim_lee	So I'm here to explain why I'm wearing these ninja pajamas. And to do that, I'd like to talk first about environmental toxins in our bodies. So some of you may know about the chemical Bisphenol A, BPA. It's a material hardener and synthetic estrogen that's found in the lining of canned foods and some plastics. So BPA mimics the body's own hormones and causes neurological and reproductive problems. And it's everywhere. A recent study found BPA in 93 percent of people six and older. But it's just one chemical. The Center for Disease Control in the U.S. says we have 219 toxic pollutants in our bodies, and this includes preservatives, pesticides and heavy metals like lead and mercury. To me, this says three things. First, don't become a cannibal. Second, we are both responsible for and the victims of our own pollution. And third, our bodies are filters and storehouses for environmental toxins. So what happens to all these toxins when we die? The short answer is: They return to the environment in one way or another, continuing the cycle of toxicity. But our current funeral practices make the situation much worse. If you're cremated, all those toxins I mentioned are released into the atmosphere. And this includes 5,000 pounds of mercury from our dental fillings alone every year. And in a traditional American funeral, a dead body is covered with fillers and cosmetics to make it look alive. It's then pumped with toxic formaldehyde to slow decomposition — a practice which causes respiratory problems and cancer in funeral personnel. So by trying to preserve our dead bodies, we deny death, poison the living and further harm the environment. Green or natural burials, which don't use embalming, are a step in the right direction, but they don't address the existing toxins in our bodies. I think there's a better solution. I'm an artist, so I'd like to offer a modest proposal at the intersection of art, science and culture. The Infinity Burial Project, an alternative burial system that uses mushrooms to decompose and clean toxins in bodies. The Infinity Burial Project began a few years ago with a fantasy to create the Infinity Mushroom — a new hybrid mushroom that would decompose bodies, clean the toxins and deliver nutrients to plant roots, leaving clean compost. But I learned it's nearly impossible to create a new hybrid mushroom. I also learned that some of our tastiest mushrooms can clean environmental toxins in soil. So I thought maybe I could train an army of toxin-cleaning edible mushrooms to eat my body. So today, I'm collecting what I shed or slough off — my hair, skin and nails — and I'm feeding these to edible mushrooms. As the mushrooms grow, I pick the best feeders to become Infinity Mushrooms. It's a kind of imprinting and selective breeding process for the afterlife. So when I die, the Infinity Mushrooms will recognize my body and be able to eat it. All right, so for some of you, this may be really, really out there. (Laughter) Just a little. I realize this is not the kind of relationship that we usually aspire to have with our food. We want to eat, not be eaten by, our food. But as I watch the mushrooms grow and digest my body, I imagine the Infinity Mushroom as a symbol of a new way of thinking about death and the relationship between my body and the environment. See for me, cultivating the Infinity Mushroom is more than just scientific experimentation or gardening or raising a pet, it's a step towards accepting the fact that someday I will die and decay. It's also a step towards taking responsibility for my own burden on the planet. Growing a mushroom is also part of a larger practice of cultivating decomposing organisms called decompiculture, a concept that was developed by an entomologist, Timothy Myles. The Infinity Mushroom is a subset of decompiculture I'm calling body decompiculture and toxin remediation — the cultivation of organisms that decompose and clean toxins in bodies. And now about these ninja pajamas. Once it's completed, I plan to integrate the Infinity Mushrooms into a number of objects. First, a burial suit infused with mushroom spores, the Mushroom Death Suit. (Laughter) I'm wearing the second prototype of this burial suit. It's covered with a crocheted netting that is embedded with mushroom spores. The dendritic pattern you see mimics the growth of mushroom mycelia, which are the equivalent of plant roots. I'm also making a decompiculture kit, a cocktail of capsules that contain Infinity Mushroom spores and other elements that speed decomposition and toxin remediation. These capsules are embedded in a nutrient-rich jelly, a kind of second skin, which dissolves quickly and becomes baby food for the growing mushrooms. So I plan to finish the mushroom and decompiculture kit in the next year or two, and then I'd like to begin testing them, first with expired meat from the market and then with human subjects. And believe it or not, a few people have offered to donate their bodies to the project to be eaten by mushrooms. (Laughter) What I've learned from talking to these folks is that we share a common desire to understand and accept death and to minimize the impact of our death on the environment. I wanted to cultivate this perspective just like the mushrooms, so I formed the Decompiculture Society, a group of people called decompinauts who actively explore their postmortem options, seek death acceptance and cultivate decomposing organisms like the Infinity Mushroom. The Decompiculture Society shares a vision of a cultural shift, from our current culture of death denial and body preservation to one of decompiculture, a radical acceptance of death and decomposition. Accepting death means accepting that we are physical beings who are intimately connected to the environment, as the research on environmental toxins confirms. And the saying goes, we came from dust and will return to dust. And once we understand that we're connected to the environment, we see that the survival of our species depends on the survival of the planet. I believe this is the beginning of true environmental responsibility. Thank you. (Applause)	我今天要跟各位談的是為何我會穿上這忍者裝睡衣在那之前，我想先談談我們身體裡的環境毒素在座有些人也許知道BPA，也就是化學雙酚A這是一種固化劑，也是一種合成雌激素可以從罐頭食品的內裝和一些塑膠製品中找到雙酚A類似我們體內的荷爾蒙會造成造成神經系統和生殖系統的問題這種物質無所不在一項最近的研究發現六歲以上的人中有93%體內都有此種物質但這只是其中一種化學物質美國的疾病管制中心表示我們的體內存在了219種毒素當中包含有防腐劑、農藥以及像是鉛和汞的重金屬 對我而言，這代表了三件事第一、不要當食人魔第二、我們同時是汙染者也是汙染的受害者第三我們的身體是環境毒素的濾心也是倉庫所以這所有的毒素在我們死後會變成如何呢？簡單來說它們會以各種方式回到環境中繼續毒素的循環但我們目前處理喪禮的方式讓整個情況更加嚴重如果是以火化的方式進行我剛提到所有這些毒素會被釋放到大氣中這包括5000磅的汞這還單只是我們每年使用的補牙填充物而已 而傳統的美國式喪禮大體會覆蓋填充物和化妝品要讓大體看起來有生命而且會注射有毒的甲醛去延緩大體腐敗這種作法會造成葬儀社人員罹患呼吸道疾病及癌症為了保存我們的大體我們拒絕接受死亡，卻荼毒活著的人甚至傷害環境環保或自然的墓葬，則不做防腐工作那是方向較正確的處理方式但還是沒有解決我們身體裡存在的毒素我認為有更好的解決之道 我是一位藝術家我想提供一個介於藝術、科學和文化三者交會點間的婉轉建議一個終極的喪禮計畫一個替代性的殮葬方式也就是使用蘑菇來分解和清理體內的毒素這個終極的喪禮計畫起因於幾年前的一個想法想創造出一種終極蘑菇一種新型混種的蘑菇可以分解身體、清理毒素然後將養分傳送到植物根部留下乾淨的堆肥但我發現幾乎不可能創造出這種新型混種蘑菇我也學到我們一些嘗起來美味的蘑菇能夠清理土壤裡的環境毒素這讓我覺得也許我能培養一群可食用的清毒素的蘑菇來分解我的身體 今天我收集了一些我掉落或脫落的頭髮、皮屑和指甲然後施給這些可食用的蘑菇當作養分當這些蘑菇在成長時我選了長得最好的蘑菇當作終極蘑菇這很像為後世進行印痕作用和選擇育種的過程所以當我過世這些終極蘑菇會認出我的大體然後能夠分解我的大體好吧，對在座某些人來說這也許真的會實現(笑聲)有一點吧 我意識到這並非我們對於食物的某種認知我們吃食物，但不是被食物吃但當我看著這些蘑菇成長分解消化我部分的身體我想像這終極蘑菇是一種新的象徵象徵思考死亡以及我的身體和環境間的關係看看我培育終極蘑菇並非只是科學實驗或是園藝工作或養寵物這是一種接納的步驟接受有天我會死亡和腐敗的事實這也一種步驟要承擔責任為這個地球承擔我自己帶來的負擔 培育蘑菇也是培育有生物分解力的有機體的大型實驗之一這是一種生物分解藝術 (decompiculture)是由Timothy Myles一位昆蟲學家發展出的概念終極蘑菇是生物分解藝術下的分支我把它稱為人體分解藝術和毒素清理就是培養生物有機體來分解和清理體內毒素 現在回來談談這忍者裝睡衣如果完成我預計將終極蘑菇和各式的物品結合首先，做成一件壽衣上頭布滿了蘑菇孢子一件蘑菇做的壽衣(笑聲)我現在穿的是第二款壽衣的雛形這是針織成的網上頭也嵌入了蘑菇孢子各位看到的樹突狀圖案模仿了蘑菇菌絲生長這和植物的根相當類似 我也做出了生物分解藝術的套件雞尾酒式的膠囊裡頭也有終極蘑菇的孢子還有其他元素能夠加快生物分解和毒素清理這些膠囊中含有一種營養豐富的果凍像是第二層皮膚可以溶解的很快然後變成成長中蘑菇的嬰兒食品我預計要在明年或後年完成培育蘑菇和生物分解藝術的套件然後我想開始測試它們會先拿超市裡過期的肉品測試然後才會人體測試不管各位相信與否有少數人已經答應捐贈他們的大體參與這個計劃讓蘑菇分解他們的大體 (笑聲) 從談這些故事中，我學到的是我們有共同的慾望想了解和接受死亡同時降低死亡對環境的影響我想培養這個概念就像培育蘑菇一樣所以我建構了一個生物分解藝術的社群一群叫做生物分解藝術人士(decompinauts)他們積極地探索身後事的選擇性追求接納死亡也幫助培育生物分解有機體例如終極蘑菇生物分解藝術的社群分享了一種文化變遷的概念從我們當前拒絕接受死亡和遺體保存的文化變成生物分解藝術並且理性的接受死亡和遺體分解 接受死亡意味著我們是自然的我們和環境緊密的結合就如同做環境研究時，那些毒素的存在一樣老話一句我們本是塵土，仍要歸於塵土只要我們了解我們和環境是相連的我們的生存仰賴地球的生存我相信這會是真正環境責任承擔的開端 謝謝各位 (掌聲)
