Talk	en	zh-tw
jaime_lerner_sings_of_the_city	"I hope you'll understand my English. In the mornings it is terrible, and the afternoon is worst. (Laughter) During many years, I made some speeches starting with this saying: ""City is not a problem, it's a solution."" And more and more, I'm convinced that it's not only a solution for a country, but it's a solution for the problem of climate change. But we have a very pessimistic approach about the cities. I'm working in cities for almost 40 years, and where every mayor is trying to tell me his city is so big, or the other mayors say, ""We don't have financial resources,"" I would like to say from the experience I had: every city in the world can be improved in less than three years. There's no matter of scale. It's not a question of scale, it's not a question of financial resources. Every problem in a city has to have its own equation of co-responsibility and also a design. So to start, I want to introduce some characters from a book I made for teenagers. The best example of quality of life is the turtle because the turtle is an example of living and working together. And when you realize that the casque of the turtle looks like an urban tessitura, and can we imagine, if we cut the casque of the turtle, how sad she's going to be? And that's what we're doing in our cities: living here, working here, having leisure here. And most of the people are leaving the city and living outside of the city. So, the other character is Otto, the automobile. He is invited for a party — he never wants to leave. The chairs are on the tables and still drinking, and he drinks a lot. (Laughter) And he coughs a lot. Very egotistical: he carries only one or two people and he asks always for more infrastructure. Freeways. He's a very demanding person. And on the other hand, Accordion, the friendly bus, he carries 300 people — 275 in Sweden; 300 Brazilians. (Laughter) Speaking about the design: every city has its own design. Curitiba, my city: three million in the metropolitan area, 1,800,000 people in the city itself. Curitiba, Rio: it's like two birds kissing themselves. Oaxaca, San Francisco — it's very easy: Market Street, Van Ness and the waterfront. And every city has its own design. But to make it happen, sometimes you have to propose a scenario and to propose a design — an idea that everyone, or the large majority, will help you to make it happen. And that's the structure of the city of Curitiba. And it's an example of living and working together. And this is where we have more density; it's where we have more public transport. So, this system started in '74. We started with 25,000 passengers a day, now it's 2,200,000 passengers a day. And it took 25 years until another city ... which is Bogota, and they did a very good job. And now there's 83 cities all over the world that they are doing what they call the BRT of Curitiba. And one thing: it's important not for only your own city; every city, besides its normal problems, they have a very important role in being with the whole humanity. That means mostly two main issues — mobility and sustainability — are becoming very important for the cities. And this is an articulated bus, double-articulated. And we are very close to my house. You can come when you are in Curitiba and have a coffee there. And that's the evolution of the system. What in the design that made the difference is the boarding tubes: the boarding tube gives to the bus the same performance as a subway. That's why, I'm trying to say, it's like metro-nizing the bus. This is the design of the bus, and you can pay before entering the bus you're boarding. And for handicapped, they can use this as a normal system. What I'm trying to say is the major contribution on carbon emissions are from the cars — more than 50 percent — so when we depend only on cars, it's ... — that's why when we're talking about sustainability, it's not enough, green buildings. It's not enough, a new materials. It's not enough, new sources of energy. It's the concept of the city, the design of the city, that's also important, too. And also, how to teach the children. I'll speak on this later on. Our idea of mobility is trying to make the connections between all the systems. We started in '83, proposing for the city of Rio how to connect the subway with the bus. The subway was against, of course. And 23 years after, they called us to develop — we're developing this idea. And you can understand how different it's going to be, the image of Rio with the system — one-minute frequency. And it's not Shanghai, it's not being colored during the day, only at night it will look this way. And before you say it's a Norman Foster design, we designed this in '83. And this is the model, how it's going to work. So, it's the same system; the vehicle is different. And that's the model. What I'm trying to say is, I'm not trying to prove which system of transport is better. I'm trying to say we have to combine all the systems, and with one condition: never — if you have a subway, if you have surface systems, if you have any kind of system — never compete in the same space. And coming back to the car, I always used to say that the car is like your mother-in-law: you have to have good relationship with her, but she cannot command your life. So, when the only woman in your life is your mother-in-law, you have a problem. (Laughter) So, all the ideas about how to transform through design — old quarries and open universities and botanic garden — all of it's related to how we teach the children. And the children, we teach during six months how to separate their garbage. And after, the children teach their parents. And now we have 70 percent — since 20 years, it's the highest rate of separation of garbage in the world. Seven zero. (Applause) So teach the children. I would like to say, if we want to have a sustainable world we have to work with everything what's said, but don't forget the cities and the children. I'm working in a museum and also a multi-use city, because you cannot have empty places during 18 hours a day. You should have always a structure of living and working together. Try to understand the sectors in the city that could play different roles during the 24 hours. Another issue is, a city's like our family portrait. We don't rip our family portrait, even if we don't like the nose of our uncle, because this portrait is you. And these are the references that we have in any city. This is the main pedestrian mall; we did it in 72 hours. Yes, you have to be fast. And these are the references from our ethnic contribution. This is the Italian portal, the Ukrainian park, the Polish park, the Japanese square, the German park. All of a sudden, the Soviet Union, they split. And since we have people from Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, [unclear], we have to stop the program. (Laughter) Don't forget: creativity starts when you cut a zero from your budget. If you cut two zeros, it's much better. And this is the Wire Opera theater. We did it in two months. Parks — old quarries that they were transformed into parks. Quarries once made the nature, and sometimes we took this and we transformed. And every part can be transformed; every frog can be transformed in a prince. So, in a city, you have to work fast. Planning takes time. And I'm proposing urban acupuncture. That means me, with some focal ideas to help the normal process of planning. And this is an acupuncture note — or I.M. Pei's. Some small ones can make the city better. The smallest park in New York, the most beautiful: 32 meters. So, I want just to end saying that you can always propose new materials — new sustainable materials — but keep in mind that we have to work fast to the end, because we don't have the whole time to plan. And I think creativity, innovation is starting. And we cannot have all the answers. So when you start — and we cannot be so prepotent on having all the answers — it's important starting and having the contribution from people, and they could teach you if you're not in the right track. At the end, I would like if you can help me to sing the sustainable song. OK? Please, allow me just two minutes. You're going to make the music and the rhythm. ♫ Toonchi-too! Toonchi-too! Toonchi-too! ♫ ♫ Toonchi-too! Toonchi-too! Toonchi-too! ♫ ♫ It's possible! It's possible! You can do it! You can do it! ♫ ♫ Use less your car! Make this decision! ♫ ♫ Avoid carbon emission! It's possible! It's possible! ♫ ♫ You can do it! You can do it! ♫ ♫ Live closer to work! ♫ ♫ Work closer to home! Save energy in your home! ♫ ♫ It's possible! It's possible! You can do it! ♫ ♫ You can do it! Separate your garbage! ♫ ♫ Organic, schmorganic! Save more! Waste less! It's possible! ♫ ♫ You can do it! Please, do it now! ♫ Thank you. (Applause)"	"我希望你們能夠明白我的英文。它在早上很糟糕，到了下午更是一塌糊塗。（笑聲）在過去的很多年里，我都用這個作為我演講的開頭：""城市不是一個問題，而是一個解決辦法。”而且我越來越相信這不僅僅對國家來說是一個解決方法，對氣候變化來說更是這樣。 但是我們對城市的現狀很悲觀。快40年了，我一直在不同的城市里工作，而每個城市的市長都嘗試著告訴我，噢，他的城市是那麼的大。其他的一些市長說，我們沒有經濟來源。我想說的是，從我的經驗看，世界上所有的城市都可以在3年以內得到改進。這和階級無關，階級不是問題，也不是經濟來源的問題。城市里的所有問題都與公共責任感有某種聯繫。當然，還有一個規劃的問題。 所以，在開始，我想從我為青少年寫的一本書里的介紹一些角色。關於生活的質量的最好例子是烏龜，因為烏龜正是一個生活和工作有機結合的例子。當你看到烏龜的盔甲時，那就像是城市的保護罩，你可以想像如果我們把烏龜的盔甲弄掉，她會多麼傷心？而這正是我們對城市做的事！我們在這裡生活，工作，娛樂。但很多人正計劃離開城市，搬到近郊居住。 然後，另一個角色是奧托，汽車。他被邀請去一個他坐在桌子旁，一直喝酒，他喝了很多。（笑聲）然後，他不斷地咳嗽。十分自負。他只載一個或者兩個人。而且他總是要求有更高的基礎設施。高速公路。他是一個要求很高的人。而另一方面，阿克迪恩，那友好的巴士，他載300個人，275個瑞典人，300個巴西人。（笑聲） 說到規劃，每個城市都有它自己的規劃。庫裡蒂巴，我的城市，3百萬人住在市中心，180萬住在城市里。庫裡蒂巴，里約熱內盧：他們就像是兩隻在接吻的鳥。奧薩卡，舊金山-這很簡單。市集、凡内斯和海旁區。每個城市都有它自己的規劃。但是你要讓它實行，有時候，你需要提供一個設想。而去提出一個設計，一個可以讓每個人，或者大多數人，都幫你去實現的計劃。而這正是庫裡蒂巴的城市架構。 也正是一個生活和工作有機結合的例子。在這裡，我們有更高的人口密度，也有更多的公共交通。這個系統從1974年開始，那時候我們的人流只有2萬5千人一天，現在我們有220萬人一天。庫裡蒂巴用了25年，直至另一個城市，波哥大，他們做得非常好。而現在全世界有83個城市，他們都在實施一個被他們叫做庫裡蒂巴的BRT項目。還有一點，很重要，這不僅僅可以用在你自己的城市。而是所有城市，先不說他們一些普通的問題，他們在全人類中扮演著一個角色 —一個很重要的角色。那意味著兩個重要的，對城市來說，越來越重要的因素：靈活性和可持續發展。 這是一輛分節巴士。而且是分雙節的。我們離我家很近。當你來到庫裡蒂巴，你可以來我家看看，并喝杯咖啡。這將是進化后的系統。使城市會有大改變的規劃是寬闊的車道。寬闊的車道讓汽車像地鐵一樣有快速的運輸能力。這就是爲什麽，我一直在嘗試著說，這就像是將巴士地下鐵化。這是對巴士的規劃。你可以在進入你要上的車之前就付錢。而對於殘疾人來說，他們可以像正常人一樣使用這套系統。 但是我想說的是，碳排放主要來自汽車排放。超過百分之五十。所以，當我們主要依賴汽車運輸，— 這就是爲什麽當我們在講可持續發展的時候，會覺得，綠色建築不足夠，新材料不足夠，新能源不足夠。這是關乎城市的概念。城市的設計。這些都很重要，還有對於怎麼樣教導孩子，這也是重要的。我會在接下來再講有關這個的問題。 我們有關靈活性的想法是希望讓所有系統互相之間連接起來。我們從83年開始，為裡約熱內盧提議怎樣把地下鐵和巴士連接起來。當然，受到地下鐵公司反對。而23年之後，他們讓我們去拓展 — 我們正在拓展這個想法。你們會看到這將帶來多大的不同，裡約熱內盧使用這系統的情形 —一分鐘一班。而這不是上海，白天它不會色彩斑斕，只有在晚上你們看到的將會是這樣。 在你說這是Norman Foster的設計之前，我們在83年已經有了這個設計。而這是模型，這就是它工作的模式。這是一個完全一樣的系統；交通工具不同。因為這是個模型。我想說的是，我沒有嘗試去證明哪個交通系統更好。我想說我們需要綜合。綜合所有的系統，只有一個條件：記得不要，如果你有一個地下鐵，如果你有一個地面交通系統，甚至如果你有任何形式的系統 —記得不要在同一個地方比較。 回到汽車那裡，我過去總會說這車就像你的岳母。你要和她有很好的關係，但是她不能控制你的生活。所以，當你的岳母是你生活中唯一一個女人的時候，你就有問題了。（笑聲）所以所有有關如何通過規劃改變的想法 —舊採石場，公開大學和植物園.....所有這些都和我們該如何教育孩子有關。在過去的六個月里，我們教育孩子如何進行垃圾分類。然後，他們回去教他們的父母。所以現在，我們有百分之七十的（垃圾分類）是這20年來，全球最高的垃圾分類率。七零。（掌聲）所以要教導孩子。 我想說，如果我們想有一個可持續發展的世界，我們要去做每一樣剛說過的事。但是不要忘記城市和孩子們。我正在一所博物館工作，也是一個多用途城市，因為你不可能每天18小時都對著空蕩蕩的地方。你應該總有一個生活和工作結合的理念。嘗試去理解城市中24小時都在扮演不同角色的部門的工作。 另外一件事就是，一個城市就像我們的家庭合照。儘管我們不喜歡叔叔的鼻子，但是我們不會撕掉我們的家庭合照因為這合照代表了你。這是任何城市都會有的特徵：這是主步行街；我們在72小時內就完成了。是的，你需要做得很快。這是因為我們人種多樣性而有的特徵。這是意大利式的拱門，烏克蘭式和波蘭式的公園，日本式的廣場，德國式的公園。由於，蘇聯解體了，我們就有了烏茲別克斯坦的，卡薩克斯坦的，塔吉克斯坦的，[都說不清楚了]看來，我們得停止這項計劃了。（笑聲） 不要忘記：創造力。它從你在你的預算里減去一個零的時候就開始了。如果你減去兩個零，那效果會更好。這是Wire 歌劇院。我們在2個月內完成了它。公園-由舊採石場改成哦公園。採石場，曾是自然的一部份，我們拿過來，并把它改造。它的任何一個部份都可以被改造-就好像每一隻青蛙都可以變身成王子。 所以，在城市里，你需要工作速度。計劃需要時間。而我正計劃做城市針灸。意思是，我用一些出色的點子去加快普通的計劃進程。這就是一個針灸筆記—或者說是貝垏銘的。一些小的筆記 —他們能讓城市變得更美好。又或者是紐約最小的一個公園，最美的：32米。 所以最後我想說你總是可以發現新的材料，新的可持續發展的材料，但記住我們要工作得很快。最後，我們沒有充足的時間去計劃。所以我想創造力、改革應該要開始。我們不可能獲得所有的答案。所以當你開始的時候 —我們不可能優先獲得所有答案。讓人們開始并為城市做出貢獻是十分重要的，而且如果你不在正軌，他們會教導你。 最後，如果可以的話，我想讓你們和我一起唱持續發展歌。可以嗎？拜託，只是兩分鐘而已。你知道，你們幫忙打節奏。 ♫咚咚！咚咚！咚咚！♫ ♫咚咚！咚咚！咚咚！♫ ♫一切皆可能！一切皆可能！你可以的！你可以的！♫ ♫少用你的車！下定你的決心！♫ ♫避免碳排放！一切皆可能！一切皆可能！♫ ♫你可以的！你可以的！♫ ♫家離工作更近！♫ ♫工作與家更親!為你的家省下能源！♫ ♫一切皆可能！一切皆可能！你可以的！♫ ♫你可以的!垃圾分類！♫ ♫有機的，還是有機的！省下更多！浪費更少！一切皆可能！♫ ♫你可以的！來吧！動起來-就現在！♫ 謝謝。（掌聲）"
