Talk	en	zh-tw
jake_wood_a_new_mission_for_veterans_disaster_relief	Two years ago, after having served four years in the United States Marine Corps and deployments to both Iraq and Afghanistan, I found myself in Port-au-Prince, leading a team of veterans and medical professionals in some of the hardest-hit areas of that city, three days after the earthquake. We were going to the places that nobody else wanted to go, the places nobody else could go, and after three weeks, we realized something. Military veterans are very, very good at disaster response. And coming home, my cofounder and I, we looked at it, and we said, there are two problems. The first problem is there's inadequate disaster response. It's slow. It's antiquated. It's not using the best technology, and it's not using the best people. The second problem that we became aware of was a very inadequate veteran reintegration, and this is a topic that is front page news right now as veterans are coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan, and they're struggling to reintegrate into civilian life. And we sat here and we looked at these two problems, and finally we came to a realization. These aren't problems. These are actually solutions. And what do I mean by that? Well, we can use disaster response as an opportunity for service for the veterans coming home. Recent surveys show that 92 percent of veterans want to continue their service when they take off their uniform. And we can use veterans to improve disaster response. Now on the surface, this makes a lot of sense, and in 2010, we responded to the tsunami in Chile, the floods in Pakistan, we sent training teams to the Thai-Burma border. But it was earlier this year, when one of our original members caused us to shift focus in the organization. This is Clay Hunt. Clay was a Marine with me. We served together in Iraq and Afghanistan. Clay was with us in Port-au-Prince. He was also with us in Chile. Earlier this year, in March, Clay took his own life. This was a tragedy, but it really forced us to refocus what it is that we were doing. You know, Clay didn't kill himself because of what happened in Iraq and Afghanistan. Clay killed himself because of what he lost when he came home. He lost purpose. He lost his community. And perhaps most tragically, he lost his self-worth. And so, as we evaluated, and as the dust settled from this tragedy, we realized that, of those two problems — in the initial iteration of our organization, we were a disaster response organization that was using veteran service. We had a lot of success, and we really felt like we were changing the disaster response paradigm. But after Clay, we shifted that focus, and suddenly, now moving forward, we see ourselves as a veteran service organization that's using disaster response. Because we think that we can give that purpose and that community and that self-worth back to the veteran. And tornadoes in Tuscaloosa and Joplin, and then later Hurricane Irene, gave us an opportunity to look at that. Now I want you to imagine for a second an 18-year-old boy who graduates from high school in Kansas City, Missouri. He joins the Army. The Army gives him a rifle. They send him to Iraq. Every day he leaves the wire with a mission. That mission is to defend the freedom of the family that he left at home. It's to keep the men around him alive. It's to pacify the village that he works in. He's got a purpose. But he comes home [to] Kansas City, Missouri, maybe he goes to college, maybe he's got a job, but he doesn't have that same sense of purpose. You give him a chainsaw. You send him to Joplin, Missouri after a tornado, he regains that. Going back, that same 18-year-old boy graduates from high school in Kansas City, Missouri, joins the Army, the Army gives him a rifle, they send him to Iraq. Every day he looks into the same sets of eyes around him. He leaves the wire. He knows that those people have his back. He's slept in the same sand. They've lived together. They've eaten together. They've bled together. He goes home to Kansas City, Missouri. He gets out of the military. He takes his uniform off. He doesn't have that community anymore. But you drop 25 of those veterans in Joplin, Missouri, they get that sense of community back. Again, you have an 18-year-old boy who graduates high school in Kansas City. He joins the Army. The Army gives him a rifle. They send him to Iraq. They pin a medal on his chest. He goes home to a ticker tape parade. He takes the uniform off. He's no longer Sergeant Jones in his community. He's now Dave from Kansas City. He doesn't have that same self-worth. But you send him to Joplin after a tornado, and somebody once again is walking up to him and shaking their hand and thanking them for their service, now they have self-worth again. I think it's very important, because right now somebody needs to step up, and this generation of veterans has the opportunity to do that if they are given the chance. Thank you very much. (Applause)	兩年前，也就是我在美國海軍陸戰隊服役且被調度到伊拉克還有阿富汗四年之後，我到了太子港(海地首都)，帶領一個由退役軍人和醫療專業人士所組成的團隊，在地震後三天，去了一些城市中受重創的地方。我們打算去沒有人要去的地方，而且也沒有人可以去的地方，在三周後，我們了解了一些事。退役軍人非常善於處理災難緊急狀況。在回家的路上，我和我的共同創辦人，討論到兩個問題。第一個問題是訓練不足的災難應變。反應很慢，像骨董一樣。沒有應用最好的科技，同時也沒有將人員配置到適合的位置。我們發現的第二個問題，是沒有妥善地重新整合退役軍人資料，這就是現在的頭版新聞標題，當退役軍人正從伊拉克和阿富汗回來的時候，他們很難能重新融入平民生活。當時我們坐著，思考這兩個問題，最後我們才領悟到，這些並不是問題所在。這些其實是解決之道。我這麼說是什麼意思？ 我們可將災難應變視為要回家的退役軍人的服務機會。最近的調查顯示百分之92的退役軍人脫下制服的時候，仍想持續付出。我們可用退役軍人來改善災難應變。單就表面來看，這很合理，在2010年時，我們對智利的海嘯，還有巴基斯坦的水災都做出對應，我們將訓練團隊送到泰國和緬甸的邊境。今年更簡單，當我們當中一個元老級的成員讓我們將重心轉移回組織中。 這是 Clay Hunt 。 Clay 跟我一樣是海軍陸戰隊。我們一起在伊拉克和阿富汗服役。我們在太子港跟智利時，他也都在。今年稍早，三月的時候， Clay 自殺了。這真是個悲劇，但這驅使我們重新檢視我們在做的到底是什麼。你要知道， Clay 並不是因為在伊朗和阿富汗發生的事才自殺。他自殺是因為他回家時失去的東西。他失去目標。他失去他的社交圈。或許最悲慘的是，他失去他的自我價值。 於是當我們衡量的時候，當這個悲劇落幕的時候，我們了解這兩個問題 —剛開始我提到我們的組織，我們是一個運用退役軍人的災難應變組織。我們有很多成功事蹟，而且我們真的覺得我們改變了災難應變的典範。但在 Clay 自殺後，我們轉移重心，現在往前看時，突然間，我們視自己為善於災難應變的退役軍人組織。因為我們認為我們可以將目標，團體和自我價值帶回給退役軍人。在塔斯卡盧薩和賈柏林的龍捲風，還有之後的颶風 Irene ，都給我們檢視的機會。 現在我要你們想像一個18歲的男孩，剛從密蘇里州堪薩斯城的高中畢業。他加入軍隊，軍隊給他一把步槍。他們將他送到伊拉克。每天他離開軍隊有一個任務。任務就是捍衛他離開的家人的自由。幫助在他身邊的人活下去。帶給他工作的村落和平。他有個目標。但當他回到密蘇里州堪薩斯城時，他可能去上大學，可能找個工作，但他卻沒有感受到相同的使命感。你給他一把鋸子，送他到密蘇里州的賈柏林小鎮，在那小鎮受到龍捲風摧殘後，他重新得到使命感。 再往回想，同一個十八歲的男孩從密蘇里州堪薩斯城的高中畢業，加入軍隊，軍隊給他一把步槍，他們送他到伊拉克。每天他環視他身邊一樣的好幾對眼睛。他離開基地。他知道這些人在保護他。他們睡在一樣的沙地上。他們住在一起。他們一起吃飯。他們一起流血。他回到密蘇里州堪薩斯城的家中。他離開軍隊。他褪下制服。他不再擁有那樣的團體。但你將25位退役軍人丟到密蘇里州的賈柏林小鎮，他們再次得到團隊的感覺。 再來一次，一個十八歲的男孩從密蘇里州堪薩斯城的高中畢業。他加入軍隊，軍隊給他一把步槍。他們送他去伊拉克。他們在他胸膛別上一枚勳章。他回家還參與了盛大歡迎的遊行隊伍。他褪下制服。他不再是他團隊裡的中士 Jones ，他現在是堪薩斯城的 Dave ，他不再有相同的自我價值。但你在龍捲風侵襲後送他到賈柏林小鎮，再一次有個人走向前，握他們的手，謝謝他們的服務，他們再次得到自我價值。 我想這是非常重要的，因為現在有人需要往上爬，而這個世代的退役軍人有機會可以這麼做，如果他們被給予機會的話。謝謝你們。
