Talk	en	zh-tw
jakob_trollback_rethinks_the_music_video	"I’m working a lot with motion and animation, and also I'm an old DJ and a musician. So, music videos are something that I always found interesting, but they always seem to be so reactive. So I was thinking, can you remove us as creators and try to make the music be the voice and have the animation following it? So with two designers, Tolga and Christina, at my office, we took a track — many of you probably know it. It’s about 25 years old, and it's David Byrne and Brian Eno — and we did this little animation. And I think that it's maybe interesting, also, that it deals with two problematic issues, which are rising waters and religion. Song: Before God destroyed the people on the Earth, he warned Noah to build an Ark. And after Noah built his Ark, I believe he told Noah to warn the people that they must change all their wicked ways before he come upon them and destroy them. And when Noah had done built his Ark, I understand that somebody began to rend a song. And the song began to move on I understand like this. And when Noah had done built his Ark ... Move on ... In fact ... Concern ... So they get tired, has come dark and rain; they get weary and tired. And then he went and knocked an old lady house. And old lady ran to the door and say, ""Who is it?"" Jack say, ""Me, Mama-san, could we spend the night here? Because we’re far from home, we’re very tired."" And the old lady said, ""Oh yes, come on in."" It was come dark and rain, will make you weary and tired. (Applause)"	我的工作和電影與動畫息息相關。而我也是一名音樂人，又是一個經驗老道的DJ 。所以我對音樂錄影帶總是頗有想法。但音樂錄影帶往往都一陳不變。因此我想要發揮創意讓音樂錄影帶以音樂本身為主再配上動畫畫面我有另外兩個設計師夥伴Christina和Tolga 我們在我的工作室裡製作了一首曲子—你們其中可能有人曾經聽過這首歌；這首歌是25年前的老歌，演唱人是David Byrne 和Brian Eno– 而我們為這首歌製作了動畫。我覺得這首歌有趣的地方在於它有關於了二個議題海平面上升以及宗教信仰。 在上帝摧毀地球上的人類之前，它通知諾亞建造了一艘方舟。在諾亞造完方舟之後上帝要諾亞警告人類改變所有的惡行，在上帝降臨毀滅之前。諾亞造完方舟之後，有一首歌開始被人傳唱。這首歌是這樣被傳唱著諾亞造完方舟後繼續前進他們累了;黑暗風雨來襲，他們疲憊不已。來到老婦人的家，敲敲門。老婦人問道：“誰啊？”Jackson Lee Mama 說：“可以讓我們在此過一夜嗎？”我們從很遠來，我們已經走得疲累。”老婦人說：“當然可以，請進吧。”那時天黑落雨，這讓人感到疲憊不已。 （掌聲）
