Talk	en	zh-tw
james_randi	"Good morning. Happy to see so many fine folks out here and so many smiling faces. I have a very peculiar background, attitude and approach to the real world because I am a conjurer. Now, I prefer that term over magician, because if I were a magician, that would mean that I use spells and incantations and weird gestures in order to accomplish real magic. No, I don't do that; I'm a conjurer, who is someone who pretends to be a real magician. (Laughter) Now, how do we go about that sort of thing? We depend on the fact that audiences, such as yourselves, will make assumptions. For example, when I walked up here and I took the microphone from the stand and switched it on, you assumed this was a microphone, which it is not. (Laughter) As a matter of fact, this is something that about half of you, more than half of you will not be familiar with. It's a beard trimmer, you see? And it makes a very bad microphone; I've tried it many times. (Laughter) The other assumption that you made — and this little lesson is to show you that you will make assumptions. Not only that you can, but that you will when they are properly suggested to you. You believe I'm looking at you. Wrong. I'm not looking at you. I can't see you. I know you're out there, they told me backstage, it's a full house and such. I know you're there because I can hear you, but I can't see you because I normally wear glasses. These are not glasses, these are empty frames. (Laughter) Quite empty frames. Now why would a grown man appear before you wearing empty frames on his face? To fool you, ladies and gentlemen, to deceive you, to show that you, too, can make assumptions. Don't you ever forget that. Now, I have to do something — first of all, switch to real glasses so I can actually see you, which would probably be a convenience. I don't know. I haven't had a good look. Well, it's not that great a convenience. (Laughter) I have to do something now, which seems a little bit strange for a magician. But I'm going to take some medication. This is a full bottle of Calms Forte. I'll explain that in just a moment. Ignore the instructions, that's what the government has to put in there to confuse you, I'm sure. I will take enough of these. Mm. Indeed, the whole container. Thirty-two tablets of Calms Forte. Now that I've done that — I'll explain it in a moment — I must tell you that I am an actor. I'm an actor who plays a specific part. I play the part of a magician, a wizard, if you will, a real wizard. If someone were to appear on this stage in front of me and actually claim to be an ancient prince of Denmark named Hamlet, you would be insulted and rightly so. Why would a man assume that you would believe something bizarre like this? But there exists out there a very large population of people who will tell you that they have psychic, magical powers that they can predict the future, that they can make contact with the deceased. Oh, they also say they will sell you astrology or other fortunetelling methods. Oh, they gladly sell you that, yes. And they also say that they can give you perpetual motion machines and free energy systems. They claim to be psychics, or sensitives, whatever they can. But the one thing that has made a big comeback just recently is this business of speaking with the dead. Now, to my innocent mind, dead implies incapable of communicating. (Laughter) You might agree with me on that. But these people, they tend to tell you that not only can they communicate with the dead — ""Hi, there"" — but they can hear the dead as well, and they can relay this information back to the living. I wonder if that's true. I don't think so, because this subculture of people use exactly the same gimmicks that we magicians do, exactly the same — the same physical methods, the same psychological methods — and they effectively and profoundly deceive millions of people around the earth, to their detriment. They deceive these people, costs them a lot of money, cost them a lot of emotional anguish. Billions of dollars are spent every year, all over the globe, on these charlatans. Now, I have two questions I would like to ask these people if I had the opportunity to do so. First question: If I want to ask them to call up — because they do hear them through the ear. They listen to the spirits like this — I'm going to ask you to call up the ghost of my grandmother because, when she died, she had the family will, and she secreted it someplace. We don't know where it is, so we ask Granny, ""Where is the will, Granny?"" What does Granny say? She says, ""I'm in heaven and it's wonderful. I'm here with all my old friends, my deceased friends, and my family and all the puppy dogs and the kittens that I used to have when I was a little girl. And I love you, and I'll always be with you. Good bye."" And she didn't answer the damn question! Where is the will? Now, she could easily have said, ""Oh, it's in the library on the second shelf, behind the encyclopedia,"" but she doesn't say that. No, she doesn't. She doesn't bring any useful information to us. We paid a lot of money for that information, be we didn't get it. The second question that I'd like to ask, rather simple: Suppose I ask them to contact the spirit of my deceased father-in-law, as an example. Why do they insist on saying — remember, they speak into this ear — why do they say, ""My name starts with J or M?"" Is this a hunting game? Hunting and fishing? What is it? Is it 20 questions? No, it's more like 120 questions. But it is a cruel, vicious, absolutely conscienceless — I'll be all right, keep your seats (Laughter) — game that these people play. And they take advantage of the innocent, the naive, the grieving, the needy people out there. Now, this is a process that is called cold reading. There's one fellow out there, Van Praagh is his name, James Van Praagh. He's one of the big practitioners of this sort of thing. John Edward, Sylvia Browne and Rosemary Altea, they are other operators. There are hundreds of them all over the earth, but in this country, James Van Praagh is very big. And what does he do? He likes to tell you how the deceased got deceased, the people he's talking to through his ear, you see? So what he says is, very often, is like this: he says, ""He tells me, he tells me, before he passed, that he had trouble breathing."" Folks, that's what dying is all about! (Laughter) You stop breathing, and then you're dead. It's that simple. And that's the kind of information they're going to bring back to you? I don't think so. Now, these people will make guesses, they'll say things like, ""Why am I getting electricity? He's saying to me, 'Electricity.' Was he an electrician?"" ""No."" ""Did he ever have an electric razor?"" ""No."" It was a game of hunting questions like this. This is what they go through. Now, folks often ask us at the James Randi Educational Foundation, they call me, they say, ""Why are you so concerned about this, Mr. Randi? Isn't it just a lot of fun?"" No, it is not fun. It is a cruel farce. Now, it may bring a certain amount of comfort, but that comfort lasts only about 20 minutes or so. And then the people look in the mirror, and they say, I just paid a lot of money for that reading. And what did she say to me? 'I love you!'"" They always say that. They don't get any information, they don't get any value for what they spend. Now, Sylvia Browne is the big operator. We call her ""The Talons."" Sylvia Browne — thank you — Sylvia Browne is the big operator in this field at this very moment. Now, Sylvia Browne — just to show you — she actually gets 700 dollars for a 20 minute reading over the telephone, she doesn't even go there in person, and you have to wait up to two years because she's booked ahead that amount of time. You pay by credit card or whatever, and then she will call you sometime in the next two years. You can tell it's her. ""Hello, this is Sylvia Browne."" That's her, you can tell right away. Now, Montel Williams is an intelligent man. We all know who he is on television. He's well educated, he's smart, he knows what Sylvia Browne is doing but he doesn't give a damn. He just doesn't care. Because, the bottom line is, the sponsors love it, and he will expose her to television publicity all the time. Now, what does Sylvia Browne give you for that 700 dollars? She gives you the names of your guardian angels, that's first. Now, without that, how could we possibly function? (Laughter) She gives you the names of previous lives, who you were in previous lives. Duh. It turns out that the women that she gives readings for were all Babylonian princesses, or something like that. And the men were all Grecian warriors fighting with Agamemnon. Nothing is ever said about a 14 year-old bootblack in the streets of London who died of consumption. He isn't worth bringing back, obviously. And the strange thing — folks, you may have noticed this too. You see these folks on television — they never call anybody back from hell. (Laughter) Everyone comes back from heaven, but never from hell. If they call back any of my friends, they're not going to... Well, you see the story. (Laughter) Now, Sylvia Browne is an exception, an exception in one way, because the James Randi Educational Foundation, my foundation, offers a one million dollar prize in negotiable bonds. Very simply won. All you have to do is prove any paranormal, occult or supernatural event or power of any kind under proper observing conditions. It's very easy, win the million dollars. Sylvia Browne is an exception in that she's the only professional psychic in the whole world that has accepted our challenge. She did this on the ""Larry King Live"" show on CNN six and a half years ago. And we haven't heard from her since. Strange. She said that, first of all, that she didn't know how to contact me. Duh. A professional psychic who speaks to dead people, she can't reach me? (Laughter) I'm alive, you may have noticed. Well, pretty well anyway. She couldn't reach me. Now she says she doesn't want to reach me because I'm a godless person. All the more reason to take the million dollars, wouldn't you think, Sylvia? Now these people need to be stopped, seriously now. They need to be stopped because this is a cruel farce. We get people coming to the foundation all the time. They're ruined financially and emotionally because they've given their money and their faith to these people. Now, I popped some pills earlier. I have to explain that to you. Homeopathy, let's find out what that's all about. Hmm. You've heard of it. It's an alternative form of healing, right? Homeopathy actually consists — and that's what this is. This is Calms Forte, 32 caplets of sleeping pills! I forgot to tell you that. I just ingested six and a half days worth of sleeping pills. (Laughter) Six and a half days, that certainly is a fatal dose. It says right on the back here, ""In case of overdose, contact your poison control center immediately,"" and it gives an 800 number. Keep your seats — it's going to be okay. I don't really need it because I've been doing this stunt for audiences all over the world for the last eight or 10 years, taking fatal doses of homeopathic sleeping pills. Why don't they affect me? (Laughter) (Applause) The answer may surprise you. What is homeopathy? It's taking a medicine that really works and diluting it down well beyond Avogadro's limit. Diluting it down to the point where there's none of it left. (Laughter) Now folks, this is not just a metaphor I'm going to give you now, it's true. It's exactly equivalent to taking one 325 milligram aspirin tablet, throwing it into the middle of Lake Tahoe, and then stirring it up, obviously with a very big stick, and waiting two years or so until the solution is homogeneous. Then, when you get a headache, you take a sip of this water, and — voila! — it is gone. (Laughter) Now that is true. That is what homeopathy is all about. And another claim that they make — you'll love this one — the more dilute the medicine is, they say, the more powerful it is. Now wait a minute, we heard about a guy in Florida. The poor man, he was on homeopathic medicine. He died of an overdose. He forgot to take his pill. (Laughter) Work on it. Work on it. It's a ridiculous thing. It is absolutely ridiculous. I don't know what we're doing, believing in all this nonsense over all these years. Now, let me tell you, The James Randi Educational Foundation is waving this very big carrot, but I must say, the fact that nobody has taken us up on this offer doesn't mean that the powers don't exist. They might, some place out there. Maybe these people are just independently wealthy. Well, with Sylvia Browne I would think so. You know, 700 dollars for a 20 minute reading over the telephone — that's more than lawyers make! I mean that's a fabulous amount of money. These people don't need the million dollars perhaps, but wouldn't you think they'd like to take it just to make me look silly? Just to get rid of this godless person out there that Sylvia Browne talks about all the time? I think that something needs to be done about this. We really would love to have suggestions from you folks on how to contact federal, state and local authorities to get them to do something. If you find out — now I understand. We've seen people, even today, speaking to us about AIDS epidemics and starving kids around the world and impure water supplies that people have to suffer with. Those are very important, critically important to us. And we must do something about those problems. But at the same time, as Arthur C. Clarke said, The rotting of the human mind, the business of believing in the paranormal and the occult and the supernatural — all of this total nonsense, this medieval thinking — I think something should be done about that, and it all lies in education. Largely, it's the media who are to blame for this sort of thing. They shamelessly promote all kinds of nonsense of this sort because it pleases the sponsors. It's the bottom line, the dollar line. That's what they're looking at. We really must do something about this. I'm willing to take your suggestions, and I'm willing to have you tune in to our webpage. It's www.randi.org. Go in there and look at the archives, and you will begin to understand much more of what I've been talking about today. You will see the records that we have. There's nothing like sitting in that library and having a family appear there and say that Mum gave away all the family fortune. She cashed in the CDs, she gave away the stocks and the certificates. That's really sad to hear, and it hasn't helped them one bit, hasn't solved any of their problems. Yes, there could be a rotting of the American mind, and of the minds all the way around the earth, if we don't start to think sensibly about these things. Now, we've offered this carrot, as I say, we've dangled the carrot. We're waiting for the psychics to come forth and snap at it. Oh, we get lots of them, hundreds of them every year come by. These are dowsers and people who think that they can talk to the dead as well, but they're amateurs; they don't know how to evaluate their own so-called powers. The professionals never come near us, except in that case of Sylvia Browne that I told you about a moment ago. She did accept and then backed away. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm James Randi, and I'm waiting. Thank you. (Applause)"	"早安很高興在這裡看到這麼多的人以及這麼多的帶著笑容的臉。對於這個真實世界我有一個非常獨特的經歷、看法與態度因為我是一位魔術師（conjurer）現在，我喜歡那個字勝於巫師（magician）因為，如果我是巫師，這就表示為了完成真正的魔法我使用符咒與咒文以及怪異的姿勢不，我不那麼做；我是一位魔術師某個假裝是一個正牌巫師的人 現在，我們如何面對那類的事物呢？我們依賴在一個事實上亦即像你們一樣的觀眾會做預設的事實上例如，當我走到這裡從講台上拿起麥克風並打開開關你會假設這是一個麥克風，但它卻不是（笑聲）事實上，這是一個大約你們當中半數，甚至超過一半的人不熟悉的東西你看，它是一支刮鬍刀而且它是一支非常差的麥克風我已經試過它好幾次了另一個你們會做的預設是－而且這個小教訓是去證明你們將會做預設－你不僅可以，而且也將會－當這些預設被適當的暗示時你們相信我正看著你們錯了。我並沒有看著你們。我不可能看到你們。我知道你們在那裡，工作人員在後台就告訴我了，座無虛席我知道你們在那裡，因為我可以聽見你們但是我不可能看到你們，因為我通常會戴著眼鏡這不是眼鏡，這副眼鏡沒有鏡片只有鏡框而已 現在，為什麼有一個成年人出現在你們面前戴著沒有鏡片的眼鏡呢？為了愚弄你們，各位先生女士為了欺騙你們，為了證明你們也為了證明你們也可能作假設絕不要忘了這一點現在，我必須做些事，首先換上真正的眼鏡這樣我才能真正的看到你們這大概會比較方便，或許吧我並沒有長得很帥。嗯，並沒有那麼方便 （笑聲） 現在我必須做點事一件對一個巫師來說，似乎有點怪的事但是我將會服某些藥這是整瓶的鎮定劑（Calm’s Forte）等會我將會解釋別管用藥指示了我相信，那是政府要求放到裡面用來困惑你們的東西我將服足夠的量，嗯確實，就一整瓶32顆鎮定劑 現在我已經做好了－等下我將會解釋－我必須告訴你們我是個演員我是個扮演特殊角色的演員我扮演巫師的角色如果你們想要，我也可扮演一位魔法師，一位真正的魔法師如果有人在這個舞台上，出現在我的面前竟然宣稱他是名叫哈姆雷特的古代丹麥王子那麼你們會被污辱而且確實如此為什麼有人會假設你們會相信像這樣怪異的事情呢？但是確實在那裡存在有這樣的事有相當大比例的人會告訴你們他們具有通靈的能力、魔力他們可以預測未來他們可以跟死者溝通噢，他們還會說他們會運用占星術幫你們占卜或是用其他算命的方法幫你們占卜，並收取費用噢，他們很高興的賣給你們那些東西。沒錯而且他們還會說他們可以給你們永不停止的機器以及免費的能源系統他們稱自己為通靈者或是靈媒，他們愛怎麼講就怎麼講 但是，就在最近有一件可以抱怨的事情是有人聲稱可以與死者說話的事現在，就我無知的心靈來說死亡代表無法與他人溝通你們可能會在這件事上同意我但是這些人，他們傾向告訴你們他們不僅能夠與死者溝通－他們對死者說：嗨，親愛的－他們也能聽見死者的聲音而且他們可以轉換這些訊息給活著的人我想知道這是不是真的我不認為那是真的因為這些亞文化的人們使用了跟我們魔術師相同的花招簡直一模一樣同樣的物理方法，同樣的心理學方法而且他們有效且完全地欺騙了世界上數百萬的人們造成了這些人的傷害他們欺騙這些人使他們損失大筆的金錢使他們蒙受情感上的痛苦每年，在世界各地數十億美金浪費於這些騙人的把戲上 現在，我有兩個問題如果我有機會這麼做我想問問這些人第一個問題：如果我想請他們打電話給死者－因為他們確實可以透過耳朵聽見死者他們像這樣聽見死者我將會請你們打電話給我祖母的靈魂因為在她死的時候，她有一份遺囑她把遺囑藏在某個地方。我們不知道它在哪裡所以我們問祖母:「遺囑在哪裡？」祖母會怎麼說呢？她說:「我在天堂，而這真是太棒了我在這裡跟我所有的老友我死去的好友、我的親人以及所有在我小時候曾養過的小狗小貓在一起我愛你們，而且我會與你們同在再見。」但是她卻沒有回答那個重要的問題遺囑在哪裡？現在，她大可簡單地回答「噢，在書房的第二層書櫃，百科全書後面」但是她並沒有這麼說。完全沒有。她根本沒有帶給我們任何有用的訊息我們為了那個無用的訊息而付了一大筆錢然而我們仍沒找到遺囑 第二個我想問的問題是相當簡單的舉例來說，假設我請通靈者去跟我的岳父說話為什麼他們會堅持說－請記住，死者會向通靈者的耳邊說話－為什麼他們會說「我的名字的第一個字母是J或M？」這是一個猜謎的遊戲嗎？是要猜什麼？它到底是什麼？它是一種叫做""20個問題""的遊戲嗎？不，這比較像120個問題但是，這是殘酷、惡毒毫無良心的－我沒事，不必擔心－這些人玩的遊戲他們利用那裡無辜的人、天真的人悲傷的人、以及需要幫助的人 現在接下來是一個稱為冷讀術（cold reading）的過程那裡有一個人他叫做Van Praagh，全名是James Van Praagh他是從事這類事情的其中一員John Edward、Sylvia Browne以及Rosemary Altea是其他會做這類事情的人全世界有幾百個這樣的人，但是在美國James Van Praagh是最主要的他做了什麼呢？他想告訴你們死者如何死去他談話的對象透過他的耳朵，你們看，類似我的動作所以，他說的話經常會像是這樣「他告訴我，他在死前告訴我他感到呼吸困難。」各位，那正是死前會發生的事（笑聲）你停止呼吸，然後死去就這麼簡單那訊息是他們從死者那邊帶給你的嗎？我不這麼認為現在，這些人會去猜，他們將會這麼說「為什麼我感覺到電流？他對我說『電流』他是一個電工嗎？」不是「他曾經有一支電動刮鬍刀嗎？」不是這是一個猜謎問題的遊戲這是他們經歷的事情 現在，在詹姆斯‧藍迪教育基金會裡有人經常問我們他們叫住我，並說「藍迪先生，為什麼你那麼關心這個？只是因為很好玩嗎？」不，這一點都不好玩。這是殘酷的鬧劇現在，他們做的那些事可能會讓我們舒服點不過那只會持續大約20分鐘然後要求做那些事的人們會看著鏡子，並說為了那個與死者談話的把戲，我剛剛花了一大筆錢她對我說了什麼呢？「我愛你！」他們總是這麼說他們根本沒有帶來任何訊息他們沒有帶來任何與我們花的錢等值的東西 現在，Sylvia Browne是一個偉大的靈媒我們稱她為「魔爪」（The Talons源自英國影集Doctor Who）Sylvia Browne－謝謝－在現今這個領域裡Sylvia Browne是一位偉大的靈媒現在Sylvia Browne－為了向你們說明Sylvia在做什麼－在電話裡聽取她對死者的20分鐘解讀她就會賺到700美金她甚至不需要親自到那裡而你們必須等兩年，因為她已經被預約到那個時候你們可以用信用卡、或任何方式付費然後她會打電話給你們有時候是在兩年之後才打你們可以辨認出是她。她會在電話的一邊說「哈囉，我是Sylvia Browne。」那是她。你們可以馬上知道現在，Montel Williams是一個聰明的人我們都知道他上電視他受過良好教育，也很聰明他知道Sylvia Browne在做什麼但是他根本不甩她他根本不在乎她做了什麼他接受Sylvia的底限是因為贊助者喜歡這類的東西他會時常讓她出現在電視上 現在，Sylvia Browne讓你花700美金做的事情是什麼?一開始，她會告訴你，你的守護天使的名字沒有守護天使，我們如何可能活著呢？接著她會告訴你你前世的名字廢話結果她提供的這些解釋女人就是一個巴比倫公主或是具有類似公主的身分男人就是希臘勇士對抗著阿加曼儂（Agmemnon）根本沒說到任何關於一個在英國倫敦擦鞋的14歲小孩死於肺癆很明顯的，那個小孩不值得通靈各位，奇怪的是－你們可能也已經注意到了－你們在電視上看到的那些人－他們從來沒有從地獄呼喚到任何人每個人都是來自天堂，從來沒有來自地獄的如果他們可以呼喚我的任何一個朋友他們將不會…嗯，你們會看到這樣的故事 （笑聲） 現在，Sylvia Browne是一個例外在一個意義下是例外因為我的基金會，詹姆斯‧藍迪教育基金會以可讓渡的債券，提供了一百萬美金的獎金贏得獎金的方式很簡單你所需要做的是，在適當的觀察條件下去證明任何種類的超自然事件去證明任何神秘、不可思議的事件贏得百萬美金是非常簡單的Sylvia Browne是一個例外因為她是世界上唯一一個已經接受我們挑戰的通靈專家她在六年半前在CNN的賴瑞金實境秀（Larry King Live show）中接受我們的挑戰但是我們迄今還沒聽到她的消息。真奇怪首先，她說她不知道如何聯絡我真是個蠢問題一個可以跟死者說話的靈媒專家她不能連絡到我？（笑聲）你們應該注意到我還活著嗯，我活得相當好她無法聯絡到我？現在她說，她不想跟我聯絡因為我是一個不信神的人還有什麼理由不去贏得百萬美金呢？妳不想嗎？Sylvia 現在這些人應該被阻止，我是說真的他們需要被阻止，因為這是一個殘酷的鬧劇經常會有人去我的基金會他們的錢被騙光了，也陷入痛苦因為他們把錢跟信念交給了那些人 現在，我早先吞下的那些藥我必須向你們解釋順勢醫療法，讓我們看看那是什麼意思嗯。你們已經聽過它沒錯，它是醫療的另一個方式順勢醫療實際上存在－那就是順勢醫療這是鎮定劑32顆安眠藥－我忘了告訴你們我剛才吞下了會讓我睡六天半的安眠藥（笑聲)六天半，那確實是致命的一帖藥服用須知寫在背後這裡「萬一服用過量立即通報你的毒藥控制中心」而且它提供了免付費的服務專線不必擔心。我沒事我不是真的需要它因為我已經在過去的8或10年裡為全世界的觀眾表演了這個絕技服用順勢療法的致命安眠藥 為什麼它們對我無效？(笑聲)(鼓掌)答案可能會嚇你們一跳什麼是順勢醫療呢？就是服用真的有效的藥並且削弱它超過某個量(Avogadro)的極限削弱到沒有剩餘任何藥效的程度現在，各位，接著要說的不只是一個隱喻我即將要說的隱喻,它所代表的事情是真的這個量恰好等於將一顆325毫克的阿斯匹靈丟到Tahoe湖的中心然後用一個很大的棍子攪拌等兩年或是等到完全溶解於是，當你頭痛時你從那個湖中取一口水喝，可不是嗎！頭痛消失了(笑聲)現在，那是真的。那就是順勢療法 另一個他們會做的主張─你們會喜歡這個─他們說，藥效越被削弱它的功效就越強等一等，我們聽說在佛羅里達有個傢伙可憐的人，他正在服用順勢療法的藥他死於服藥過量因為他忘了服藥(笑聲)去做啊，去做啊荒謬的事。絕對是荒謬的我不知道我們在做什麼這些年來相信這些沒道理的事 現在，讓我告訴你們詹姆斯‧藍迪教育基金會提供了高額的獎金但是我必須說沒有人贏得獎金的事實不代表神奇的魔力不存在在某個地方，可能有或許這些人相當有錢嗯，看到Sylvia Browne，我會這麼認為你知道嗎，在電話中講20分鐘就有700美金的收入這比律師賺的還多我的意思是，那是一筆大的驚人的錢這些人或許不需要百萬美金但是你不認為他們會想要嗎？只是為了讓我下不了台階只是為了擺脫我這個不信神的人Sylvia Browne經常這麼說 我認為，關於這個，我們需要做某些事我們真的希望各位可以提供建議關於如何讓聯邦州政府與地方政府做點事如果你們發現—現在我了解—當我們看到人們,甚至今天看到的人們對我們說愛滋病的傳染世界各地飢餓的兒童以及遭受缺乏純淨飲水所苦的人們那些是非常重要的對我們來說，極度重要的而且我們必須處理那些問題但是，同一時間如同Arthur C. Clarke所說你知道的，「人類心靈的墮落」相信超自然牛鬼蛇神所有這些沒道理的事這種中世紀的思維我認為我們應該做點事而且這全都落在教育上基本上，媒體要受到批評因為縱容這類事情的出現他們無恥地提倡所有這類沒道理的事因為這類的事可以取悅贊助者這是底線，金錢堆起的線那是他們眼中看到的 我們真的需要做點事我會願意接納你們的建議並且我會希望你們瀏覽我們的網頁網址是 www.randi.org點進去，並看看裡面的檔案你將開始更了解我今天所談論過的內容你們將會看到我們擁有的記錄就像是坐在那個圖書館裡而且好像有一家人出現在那裡說著母親將全家的財產贈送出去她將定存全都領出來將股票與現金都送給人聽到這些事情真的很讓人難過而且靈媒一點都沒有幫助到他們根本沒有解決他們的任何問題沒錯，美國人以及全球各地居民的心靈可能墮落了如果我們不開始重視這些事情 現在，我們已經提供獎金了就像我說的,我們已經把獎金擺出來了我們等待靈媒的出現，並且將獎金領走噢，我們碰過很多靈媒每年都有幾百個靈媒來這些人是你們的占卜師這些人也認為自己可以與死者說話不過他們都是業餘的他們不知道如何去鑑定自己的魔力專業的靈媒從來沒找過我們除了幾分鐘前提過的Sylvia Browne之外她確實接受了挑戰，但卻退縮了各位先生女士我是詹姆斯‧藍迪而且我正等著 謝謝 (鼓掌)"
