Talk	en	zh-tw
james_flynn_why_our_iq_levels_are_higher_than_our_grandparents	"We are going to take a quick voyage over the cognitive history of the 20th century, because during that century, our minds have altered dramatically. As you all know, the cars that people drove in 1900 have altered because the roads are better and because of technology. And our minds have altered, too. We've gone from people who confronted a concrete world and analyzed that world primarily in terms of how much it would benefit them to people who confront a very complex world, and it's a world where we've had to develop new mental habits, new habits of mind. And these include things like clothing that concrete world with classification, introducing abstractions that we try to make logically consistent, and also taking the hypothetical seriously, that is, wondering about what might have been rather than what is. Now, this dramatic change was drawn to my attention through massive I.Q. gains over time, and these have been truly massive. That is, we don't just get a few more questions right on I.Q. tests. We get far more questions right on I.Q. tests than each succeeding generation back to the time that they were invented. Indeed, if you score the people a century ago against modern norms, they would have an average I.Q. of 70. If you score us against their norms, we would have an average I.Q. of 130. Now this has raised all sorts of questions. Were our immediate ancestors on the verge of mental retardation? Because 70 is normally the score for mental retardation. Or are we on the verge of all being gifted? Because 130 is the cutting line for giftedness. Now I'm going to try and argue for a third alternative that's much more illuminating than either of those, and to put this into perspective, let's imagine that a Martian came down to Earth and found a ruined civilization. And this Martian was an archaeologist, and they found scores, target scores, that people had used for shooting. And first they looked at 1865, and they found that in a minute, people had only put one bullet in the bullseye. And then they found, in 1898, that they'd put about five bullets in the bullseye in a minute. And then about 1918 they put a hundred bullets in the bullseye. And initially, that archaeologist would be baffled. They would say, look, these tests were designed to find out how much people were steady of hand, how keen their eyesight was, whether they had control of their weapon. How could these performances have escalated to this enormous degree? Well we now know, of course, the answer. If that Martian looked at battlefields, they would find that people had only muskets at the time of the Civil War and that they had repeating rifles at the time of the Spanish-American War, and then they had machine guns by the time of World War I. And, in other words, it was the equipment that was in the hands of the average soldier that was responsible, not greater keenness of eye or steadiness of hand. Now what we have to imagine is the mental artillery that we have picked up over those hundred years, and I think again that another thinker will help us here, and that's Luria. Luria looked at people just before they entered the scientific age, and he found that these people were resistant to classifying the concrete world. They wanted to break it up into little bits that they could use. He found that they were resistant to deducing the hypothetical, to speculating about what might be, and he found finally that they didn't deal well with abstractions or using logic on those abstractions. Now let me give you a sample of some of his interviews. He talked to the head man of a person in rural Russia. They'd only had, as people had in 1900, about four years of schooling. And he asked that particular person, what do crows and fish have in common? And the fellow said, ""Absolutely nothing. You know, I can eat a fish. I can't eat a crow. A crow can peck at a fish. A fish can't do anything to a crow."" And Luria said, ""But aren't they both animals?"" And he said, ""Of course not. One's a fish. The other is a bird."" And he was interested, effectively, in what he could do with those concrete objects. And then Luria went to another person, and he said to them, ""There are no camels in Germany. Hamburg is a city in Germany. Are there camels in Hamburg?"" And the fellow said, ""Well, if it's large enough, there ought to be camels there."" And Luria said, ""But what do my words imply?"" And he said, ""Well, maybe it's a small village, and there's no room for camels."" In other words, he was unwilling to treat this as anything but a concrete problem, and he was used to camels being in villages, and he was quite unable to use the hypothetical, to ask himself what if there were no camels in Germany. A third interview was conducted with someone about the North Pole. And Luria said, ""At the North Pole, there is always snow. Wherever there is always snow, the bears are white. What color are the bears at the North Pole?"" And the response was, ""Such a thing is to be settled by testimony. If a wise person came from the North Pole and told me the bears were white, I might believe him, but every bear that I have seen is a brown bear."" Now you see again, this person has rejected going beyond the concrete world and analyzing it through everyday experience, and it was important to that person what color bears were — that is, they had to hunt bears. They weren't willing to engage in this. One of them said to Luria, ""How can we solve things that aren't real problems? None of these problems are real. How can we address them?"" Now, these three categories — classification, using logic on abstractions, taking the hypothetical seriously — how much difference do they make in the real world beyond the testing room? And let me give you a few illustrations. First, almost all of us today get a high school diploma. That is, we've gone from four to eight years of education to 12 years of formal education, and 52 percent of Americans have actually experienced some type of tertiary education. Now, not only do we have much more education, and much of that education is scientific, and you can't do science without classifying the world. You can't do science without proposing hypotheses. You can't do science without making it logically consistent. And even down in grade school, things have changed. In 1910, they looked at the examinations that the state of Ohio gave to 14-year-olds, and they found that they were all for socially valued concrete information. They were things like, what are the capitals of the 44 or 45 states that existed at that time? When they looked at the exams that the state of Ohio gave in 1990, they were all about abstractions. They were things like, why is the largest city of a state rarely the capital? And you were supposed to think, well, the state legislature was rural-controlled, and they hated the big city, so rather than putting the capital in a big city, they put it in a county seat. They put it in Albany rather than New York. They put it in Harrisburg rather than Philadelphia. And so forth. So the tenor of education has changed. We are educating people to take the hypothetical seriously, to use abstractions, and to link them logically. What about employment? Well, in 1900, three percent of Americans practiced professions that were cognitively demanding. Only three percent were lawyers or doctors or teachers. Today, 35 percent of Americans practice cognitively demanding professions, not only to the professions proper like lawyer or doctor or scientist or lecturer, but many, many sub-professions having to do with being a technician, a computer programmer. A whole range of professions now make cognitive demands. And we can only meet the terms of employment in the modern world by being cognitively far more flexible. And it's not just that we have many more people in cognitively demanding professions. The professions have been upgraded. Compare the doctor in 1900, who really had only a few tricks up his sleeve, with the modern general practitioner or specialist, with years of scientific training. Compare the banker in 1900, who really just needed a good accountant and to know who was trustworthy in the local community for paying back their mortgage. Well, the merchant bankers who brought the world to their knees may have been morally remiss, but they were cognitively very agile. They went far beyond that 1900 banker. They had to look at computer projections for the housing market. They had to get complicated CDO-squared in order to bundle debt together and make debt look as if it were actually a profitable asset. They had to prepare a case to get rating agencies to give it a AAA, though in many cases, they had virtually bribed the rating agencies. And they also, of course, had to get people to accept these so-called assets and pay money for them even though they were highly vulnerable. Or take a farmer today. I take the farm manager of today as very different from the farmer of 1900. So it hasn't just been the spread of cognitively demanding professions. It's also been the upgrading of tasks like lawyer and doctor and what have you that have made demands on our cognitive faculties. But I've talked about education and employment. Some of the habits of mind that we have developed over the 20th century have paid off in unexpected areas. I'm primarily a moral philosopher. I merely have a holiday in psychology, and what interests me in general is moral debate. Now over the last century, in developed nations like America, moral debate has escalated because we take the hypothetical seriously, and we also take universals seriously and look for logical connections. When I came home in 1955 from university at the time of Martin Luther King, a lot of people came home at that time and started having arguments with their parents and grandparents. My father was born in 1885, and he was mildly racially biased. As an Irishman, he hated the English so much he didn't have much emotion for anyone else. (Laughter) But he did have a sense that black people were inferior. And when we said to our parents and grandparents, ""How would you feel if tomorrow morning you woke up black?"" they said that is the dumbest thing you've ever said. Who have you ever known who woke up in the morning — (Laughter) — that turned black? In other words, they were fixed in the concrete mores and attitudes they had inherited. They would not take the hypothetical seriously, and without the hypothetical, it's very difficult to get moral argument off the ground. You have to say, imagine you were in Iran, and imagine that your relatives all suffered from collateral damage even though they had done no wrong. How would you feel about that? And if someone of the older generation says, well, our government takes care of us, and it's up to their government to take care of them, they're just not willing to take the hypothetical seriously. Or take an Islamic father whose daughter has been raped, and he feels he's honor-bound to kill her. Well, he's treating his mores as if they were sticks and stones and rocks that he had inherited, and they're unmovable in any way by logic. They're just inherited mores. Today we would say something like, well, imagine you were knocked unconscious and sodomized. Would you deserve to be killed? And he would say, well that's not in the Koran. That's not one of the principles I've got. Well you, today, universalize your principles. You state them as abstractions and you use logic on them. If you have a principle such as, people shouldn't suffer unless they're guilty of something, then to exclude black people you've got to make exceptions, don't you? You have to say, well, blackness of skin, you couldn't suffer just for that. It must be that blacks are somehow tainted. And then we can bring empirical evidence to bear, can't we, and say, well how can you consider all blacks tainted when St. Augustine was black and Thomas Sowell is black. And you can get moral argument off the ground, then, because you're not treating moral principles as concrete entities. You're treating them as universals, to be rendered consistent by logic. Now how did all of this arise out of I.Q. tests? That's what initially got me going on cognitive history. If you look at the I.Q. test, you find the gains have been greatest in certain areas. The similarities subtest of the Wechsler is about classification, and we have made enormous gains on that classification subtest. There are other parts of the I.Q. test battery that are about using logic on abstractions. Some of you may have taken Raven's Progressive Matrices, and it's all about analogies. And in 1900, people could do simple analogies. That is, if you said to them, cats are like wildcats. What are dogs like? They would say wolves. But by 1960, people could attack Raven's on a much more sophisticated level. If you said, we've got two squares followed by a triangle, what follows two circles? They could say a semicircle. Just as a triangle is half of a square, a semicircle is half of a circle. By 2010, college graduates, if you said two circles followed by a semicircle, two sixteens followed by what, they would say eight, because eight is half of 16. That is, they had moved so far from the concrete world that they could even ignore the appearance of the symbols that were involved in the question. Now, I should say one thing that's very disheartening. We haven't made progress on all fronts. One of the ways in which we would like to deal with the sophistication of the modern world is through politics, and sadly you can have humane moral principles, you can classify, you can use logic on abstractions, and if you're ignorant of history and of other countries, you can't do politics. We've noticed, in a trend among young Americans, that they read less history and less literature and less material about foreign lands, and they're essentially ahistorical. They live in the bubble of the present. They don't know the Korean War from the war in Vietnam. They don't know who was an ally of America in World War II. Think how different America would be if every American knew that this is the fifth time Western armies have gone to Afghanistan to put its house in order, and if they had some idea of exactly what had happened on those four previous occasions. (Laughter) And that is, they had barely left, and there wasn't a trace in the sand. Or imagine how different things would be if most Americans knew that we had been lied into four of our last six wars. You know, the Spanish didn't sink the battleship Maine, the Lusitania was not an innocent vessel but was loaded with munitions, the North Vietnamese did not attack the Seventh Fleet, and, of course, Saddam Hussein hated al Qaeda and had nothing to do with it, and yet the administration convinced 45 percent of the people that they were brothers in arms, when he would hang one from the nearest lamppost. But I don't want to end on a pessimistic note. The 20th century has shown enormous cognitive reserves in ordinary people that we have now realized, and the aristocracy was convinced that the average person couldn't make it, that they could never share their mindset or their cognitive abilities. Lord Curzon once said he saw people bathing in the North Sea, and he said, ""Why did no one tell me what white bodies the lower orders have?"" As if they were a reptile. Well, Dickens was right and he was wrong. [Correction: Rudyard Kipling] [Kipling] said, ""The colonel's lady and Judy O'Grady are sisters underneath the skin."" (Applause)"	讓我們迅速審視對20世紀的認知發展歷史這是因為在20世紀裡我們的心智發展發生了顯著的改變大家都知道，人們駕駛的車子到了20世紀有了改變，因為道路變得更好開了這也是科技進步的關係而我們的心智也變得跟以往不同我們從一群面對具體世界，藉由分析現況來算計出還能從中獲取多少利益的人到一群面對十分複雜世界的人而這是個我們得演化適應發展出新的心靈模式、思考習慣的新世界這些包括讓世界確立階級分明的服裝穿著引進種種我們試著讓抽象變得前後邏輯一致以及嚴肅看待各種假設換句話說，以思考「可能是什麼」取代「是什麼」 而這個顯著的變化引起我注意的是經歷時間，我們的智商高度進化是真的非常高度的進化我指的是，這不只是在智商測驗裡多答對幾個問題的那種程度我們在智商測驗上比上好幾代答對了更多題自智商測驗出世以來，新一代就更勝上一代事實上，若你給一世紀前的人們做測驗以現在的標準來評定他們的平均智商大約只有70若你以他們的標準來評定我們現代人我們的平均智商為130這個結果引起各種疑問這代表我們的直系祖先接近智力發展遲緩的邊緣嗎？因為在一般的標準來看，智商70代表智力發展遲緩或代表我們的智力接近天才？因為智商130差不多是天才的程度了 這裡我想以第三種角度來做解釋相信能比前兩種說法解釋得更清楚合理為了讓大家了解這個視角讓我們現在想像火星人來到了地球發現了古老的文明遺跡而這些火星人是群考古學家他們考察到了射重標靶的分數記錄也就是之前人類用來記錄射擊的次數首先他們看到1865年的標靶發現在一分鐘內人們只有一顆子彈射中靶心接下來他們發現1898年的標靶射擊記錄一分鐘就約為五顆子彈射中靶的中心接下來在1918年的標靶上人們射中靶心的子彈就有一百顆一開始，火星考古學家們頗困惑他們說，看，這個測試本來是為了找出人們持槍的穩定度以及人們視覺的敏銳度看他們能否控制好他們的武器為什麼不同年代的測試結果會拉出這麼大的差距呢？當然，我們現在都知道，答案是如果火星考古學家們同時考察戰場狀況他們會發現在南北戰爭中人們只有基本款的火槍配做武器而到了美國和西班牙的對戰時人們有了自動來福槍然後到了第一次世界大戰時人們有了機關槍換句話說，改變的是武器操作武器的士兵依舊是普通人武器才是關鍵，而不是士兵的視力變得更敏銳了或持槍穩定度變得更好了 將這個情況換到心靈上來說，心靈上的武裝在過去百年來發生的演進我想在這裡另一名思想家的理論能幫助我們思想家盧里亞盧里亞在人類進入科學時代之前觀察人們他發現這時代的人們並不願意將現實世界做分類他們希望將世界分割成一小塊一小塊他們能各自利用的部份盧里亞發現他們也不願意對假設做進一步的推測拒絕推想事情可能會變成什麼樣最後他也發現人們不大應付得來抽象概念或用邏輯思考理解抽象概念 現在我對大家介紹盧里亞的訪問案例他訪問了俄國鄉村的村長他們當時僅有20 世紀的人們所享有的四年學校教育盧里亞問村長烏鴉和魚有什麼共通點？這老兄回答：「完全沒有。就魚是可吃的，烏鴉我卻就沒法子了。烏鴉能攻擊魚而魚卻不能對烏鴉做任何反擊。」盧里亞問：「但牠們不都是動物嗎？」村長答道：「當然不是。一個是魚類，另一個是烏類啊！」這個回答顯然的引起盧里亞的興趣他思考著，還能在這些具體的事物上，發現人們什麼樣的看法呢? 然後盧里亞對另一個人做訪問他告訴那人：「德國沒有駱駝。漢堡是個位於德國的城市。那麼漢堡會有駱駝嗎？」這人回答:「嗯，如果漢堡是個夠大的城市的話，應該會有駱駝吧。」盧里亞問：「但根據我話中的邏輯思考呢？」對方回答：「呃，或許它是個小村莊，塞不下駱駝。」換句話說，這個人不願意將這個問題當做一個實際的問題來思考而且他認為駱駝就應該出現在村莊裡他沒辦法依照盧里卡給出的假設去思考德國有沒有駱駝這個問題 盧里卡的第三個訪問是訪問某人對於北極的概念盧里亞說：「北極總是在下雪。而在總是下雪的地方，熊都會是白色的。那麼北極的熊是什麼顏色？」對方回答：「這樣的問題得親眼見到才能知道啊。如果現在有位來自北極的智者告訴我北極的熊是白色的，我可能會相信他，但目前為止我看過的熊都是棕色的啊。」大家可以再一次看到，這名受訪者拒絕脫離現實世界做思考並且用他的日常生活經驗去分析問題對這名受訪者而言熊是什麼顏色很重要因為他得狩獵熊他們不願意順著假設思考其中一名受訪者對盧里亞說「如果不是實際存在的問題，我們要怎麼解決？你提的這些問題都不是實際存在的。我們要怎麼做思考？」 這三個層面包括區分種類，對抽象概念做出邏輯思考，和認真看待假設—這三個思考層面的改變，為實際世界帶來多少影響除了智力測驗分數以外？這裡我想提出幾點 首先，今天我們幾乎所有人都擁有高學歷我們從四年義務教育發展到八年義務教育現在發展到十二年義務教育52%的美國人都受過大專或大學教育我們不只受教程度提高了教導的科學知識也變多了而在沒有分類概念的前提下，是沒辦法進行科學思考的你也沒辦法在不提出假設的前提下做科學思考缺少邏輯一致性，也無法做科學思考就算在小學基礎教育的階段，教學情況也改變了看看1910年時，俄亥俄州給14歲小孩的測驗會發現這些測驗全是關於社會價值、社會認知的實際資訊比如像是那個時候全美44或45州的首都名稱是什麼？再看看1990年俄亥俄州同樣給14歲小孩的測驗它們則全是關於抽象概念的題目像是為什麼佔地面積最大的城市很少成為一州的首都？而你得去思考，嗯，大概因為州立法機關聽命於當地農村而當地農村討厭大城市所以他們不把首都放在大城市而放在鄉村他們選奧爾巴尼為首都，而不是紐約他們選哈里斯堡為首都，而不是費城如此推論下去所以教育的基本內容改變了我們教導人們認真看待假設問題教人們運用抽象概念，用邏輯將它們連結起來 那麼從就業狀況來看呢？1900年代，3%的美國人從事需要高度認知能力的專門職業只有3%的美國人是律師、醫生或老師今天，35%的美國人從事需要高度認知能力的職業而不只這些以高度認知能力為主的專門行業如律師、醫生、科學家或講師還有很多、很多需要認知能力的次專門行業比如一名技術員比如一名程式設計師所有的專業範圍都需要高度認知能力而這樣的就業情況是現今世界中才演變出來的變成更廣泛的應用到認知能力現今社會中，不只有更多人從事需要高度認知的行業職業本身也升級了和1900年代的醫生做比較當時的醫生只有幾把花招現在的醫生有各科專業和各科的專家都是經過數年的科學訓練和1900年代的銀行家做比較當時的銀行家只要計算能力好以及知道在地方社區裡，誰是可靠的會還清他們的貸款就可以了現在的商業化銀行家將整個世界踩在腳下或許不再那麼注重道德觀但他們有非常敏銳的思考應變能力他們遠遠超越1900年代的銀行家他們得看電腦分析對房地產市場做出預測報告他們得拿到複雜的新式 CDO (債務抵押債券)證券做出負債整合讓負債資產在帳面上看起來像是盈利的資產他們必需準備完美的案件，讓評鑑單位給他們打上最好看的分數而大致上的情況都是用賄賂換取最佳的分數理所當然的，他們還得必需說服人們說服人們接受他們所謂的盈利資產然後付錢給他們即便這些資產有很大的風險或看看今日的農夫們我認為今天的農場管理者和1900年代的農夫是非常不一樣的所以這並不只是各行各業都廣泛需要高度認知能力的情況他們要完成的任務也跟著升級像律師、醫生，和你面臨的情況在我們的認知教育體系裡升級的課程 現在我們討論過了教育和就業上的情況從二十世紀以來我們某部分的心智狀況發展出乎意料的，反而停滯不前我主要是個道德哲學家我幾乎離不開心理學研究在大眾心理學中引起我興趣的是道德辯證思考過去一世紀以來像美國這樣個已開發國家道德辯證層面也升級了因為我們認真看待種種假設我們也認真看待全球事務並且試圖找出邏輯性的關聯1955年我從大學畢業回到家鄉當時是馬丁‧路德‧金的時代很多在那時回到家鄉的人開始和他們的父母、祖父母起爭執我父親在1885年出生他的觀念裡帶有一點種族偏見他是名愛爾蘭人，因為他幾乎把所有的激情都拿去恨英格蘭了於是他沒剩下什麼激動的情緒給其他人(笑聲)但他的確認為黑人是次等的而我們問父母和祖父母「如果明天早上醒來，你變成了黑人，你有什麼感覺？」他們回答：這是你說過最蠢的話你認識任何一個睡一覺醒來…(笑聲)…就發現自己變成黑人的人嗎？ 換句話說，他們用之前傳承下來的離不開現實狀況的思考習慣和態度來解決這個問題他們不會認真看待這個假設而去除假設就很難進行道德辯證你得說，想像你人在伊朗，想像你的親人都因戰火波及所苦他們沒做錯任何事，但依舊受苦你對此情況該做何感想？而長一輩的人會回答喔，我們的政府照顧我們而他們的生活是他們政府的事他們不願意去認真思考這個假設或舉信奉伊斯蘭教的父親面對被強暴的女兒為例父親認為，為了名節榮譽，他必需殺了她這個情況下，他是以他的思考模式在判定而如果他們對這些傳承下來的概念深信不疑任何邏輯都無法說服他們改變他們只是跟著傳承下來的習俗走今天我們會這樣對父親說喔，想想如果是你被打昏了再被強姦你覺得你應該為此被殺嗎？父親會回答，這情況可蘭經裡沒寫我奉行的經典裡沒有這一條今天，讓我們，統一我們的思考原則將這些原則視為抽象概念而用你的邏輯去理解它們如果你抱持這樣的思考原則：有罪的人才應受苦但又把黑人排除在外那這個原則就得有例外了，不是嗎？你得說，嗯，只是因為黑皮膚不能成為受苦的理由一定是因為這些黑人做錯了什麼於是它才會符合我們熟悉的認知，對吧？那麼再問，你怎麼能判定所有的黑人都做錯了事？聖奧古斯丁是個黑人，湯瑪士‧索維爾(美國著名經濟學家)也是黑人這時你就能進行道德辯證了因為你不再將道德原則看做具體經驗你將它們看做統一的標準而這標準必需前後邏輯一致 從智商測驗中，怎麼延伸出這些討論？這是我一開始研究認知歷史的起點如果你檢視智商測驗結果你會看到在某些領域中的進步特別顯著韋氏測驗中最相近的部分是關於分類的部分而在分類這部分的測試上我們有非常大的進步在智商測驗中還有其他部份即為將邏輯運用在抽象概念上在座可能有些人做過雷文圖形認知測驗這測驗的核心是類比概念在1900年代，人們可以做出簡單的類比比如，如果你告訴他們，貓和野貓是同類那麼狗和什麼是同類？他們會回答狼而到了1960年代，人們可以在雷文的測驗裡做出較成熟的類比如果你問，這裡有兩個正方形，後頭是個三角形那麼兩個圓形後頭是什麼？他們會回答半圓因為三角形是正方形的一半類比過來，半圓是圓的一半2010年，如果問大學畢業生兩個圓形後是個半圓兩個「16」後頭會是什麼？他們會回答「8」，因為是「16」的一半這證明了他們能高度脫離實際世界做出思考他們甚至能忽略題目中的比較的符號表象是不同的 現在我得告訴大家一件相當令人沮喪的事我們其實並沒有比之前進步我們選擇應付現代世界複雜矛盾的情況的方法之一是透過政治悲哀的是你還是擁有人類道德原則你還是有能力做分類，能以邏輯思考抽象概念但如果你忽視歷史、忽視其他國家你沒辦法做好政治我們意識到，年輕一代的美國人越來越少人讀歷史和文學和了解國外風俗民情他們基本上對歷史一無所知而活在現今的泡沫化社會裡他們不知道韓戰是因為越戰引起的他們也不知道在第二次世界大戰時，美國的同盟國是誰想想如果這樣會產生多大的改變如果每個美國人都知道這是第五次西方進軍阿富汗以處理好它的家務事如果有人能記取前四次的教訓正確認清到底當時發生了什麼事…(笑聲)教訓是，他們艱難的退兵沒有做出任何建樹或想想事情能有多大的改變如果大多數的美國人知道我們又被騙入四次或最近的六次戰爭裡知道嗎，西班牙人並沒有擊沉緬因州的戰艦盧西塔尼亞號並不是無辜的受害者相反的，它是全副武裝的北越南並沒有攻擊第七艦隊而，當然的，蕯達姆‧侯賽因的仇恨基地組織跟這一點關係都沒有但我們的管理者說服45%的人民他們是我們的戰友其實隨時準備將他們吊在最近的燈柱上示眾 我不想以這個悲觀的論點做結尾20世紀展現了巨大的認知發展潛力在一般大眾身上，我們現在了解到這一點特權階級認為一般大眾做不到他們沒辦法分享心智狀態或認知能力柯爵士曾說他看到人們在北海裡洗澡他問：「為什麼沒人告訴我下層階級有那麼白的身體？」將他們當做爬蟲生物看待狄更斯說對了，但也說錯了(*此處引用應為吉卜林的言論)他(吉卜林)說：「上校的夫人和朱迪·奧格雷迪，外表的差距之下，是真心相待的好姊妹。」 (掌聲)
