Talk	en	zh-tw
james_stavridis_how_nato_s_supreme_commander_thinks_about_global_security	"I'm gonna talk a little bit about open-source security, because we've got to get better at security in this 21st century. Let me start by saying, let's look back to the 20th century, and kind of get a sense of how that style of security worked for us. This is Verdun, a battlefield in France just north of the NATO headquarters in Belgium. At Verdun, in 1916, over a 300-day period, 700,000 people were killed, so about 2,000 a day. If you roll it forward — 20th-century security — into the Second World War, you see the Battle of Stalingrad, 300 days, 2 million people killed. We go into the Cold War, and we continue to try and build walls. We go from the trench warfare of the First World War to the Maginot Line of the Second World War, and then we go into the Cold War, the Iron Curtain, the Berlin Wall. Walls don't work. My thesis for us today is, instead of building walls to create security, we need to build bridges. This is a famous bridge in Europe. It's in Bosnia-Herzegovina. It's the bridge over the Drina River, the subject of a novel by Ivo Andrić, and it talks about how, in that very troubled part of Europe and the Balkans, over time there's been enormous building of walls. More recently, in the last decade, we begin to see these communities start, hesitatingly, to come together. I would argue, again, open-source security is about connecting the international, the interagency, the private-public, and lashing it together with strategic communication, largely in social networks. So let me talk a little bit about why we need to do that, because our global commons is under attack in a variety of ways, and none of the sources of threat to the global commons will be solved by building walls. Now, I'm a sailor, obviously. This is a ship, a liner, clipping through the Indian Ocean. What's wrong with this picture? It's got concertina wire along the sides of it. That's to prevent pirates from attacking it. Piracy is a very active threat today around the world. This is in the Indian Ocean. Piracy is also very active in the Strait of Malacca. It's active in the Gulf of Guinea. We see it in the Caribbean. It's a $10-billion-a-year discontinuity in the global transport system. Last year, at this time, there were 20 vessels, 500 mariners held hostage. This is an attack on the global commons. We need to think about how to address it. Let's shift to a different kind of sea, the cyber sea. Here are photographs of two young men. At the moment, they're incarcerated. They conducted a credit card fraud that netted them over 10 billion dollars. This is part of cybercrime which is a $2-trillion-a-year discontinuity in the global economy. Two trillion a year. That's just under the GDP of Great Britain. So this cyber sea, which we know endlessly is the fundamental piece of radical openness, is very much under threat as well. Another thing I worry about in the global commons is the threat posed by trafficking, by the movement of narcotics, opium, here coming out of Afghanistan through Europe over to the United States. We worry about cocaine coming from the Andean Ridge north. We worry about the movement of illegal weapons and trafficking. Above all, perhaps, we worry about human trafficking, and the awful cost of it. Trafficking moves largely at sea but in other parts of the global commons. This is a photograph, and I wish I could tell you that this is a very high-tech piece of US Navy gear that we're using to stop the trafficking. The bad news is, this is a semi-submersible run by drug cartels. It was built in the jungles of South America. We caught it with that low-tech raft — (Laughter) — and it was carrying six tons of cocaine. Crew of four. Sophisticated communications sweep. This kind of trafficking, in narcotics, in humans, in weapons, God forbid, in weapons of mass destruction, is part of the threat to the global commons. And let's pull it together in Afghanistan today. This is a field of poppies in Afghanistan. Eighty to 90 percent of the world's poppy, opium and heroin, comes out of Afghanistan. We also see there, of course, terrorism. This is where al Qaeda is staged from. We also see a very strong insurgency embedded there. So this terrorism concern is also part of the global commons, and what we must address. So here we are, 21st century. We know our 20th-century tools are not going to work. What should we do? I would argue that we will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun. We will not deliver security solely from the barrel of a gun. We will need the application of military force. When we do it, we must do it well, and competently. But my thesis is, open-source security is about international, interagency, private-public connection pulled together by this idea of strategic communication on the Internet. Let me give you a couple of examples of how this works in a positive way. This is Afghanistan. These are Afghan soldiers. They are all holding books. You should say, ""That's odd. I thought I read that this demographic, young men and women in their 20s and 30s, is largely illiterate in Afghanistan."" You would be correct. Eighty-five percent cannot read when they enter the security forces of Afghanistan. Why? Because the Taliban withheld education during the period of time in which these men and women would have learned to read. So the question is, so, why are they all standing there holding books? The answer is, we are teaching them to read in literacy courses by NATO in partnership with private sector entities, in partnership with development agencies. We've taught well over 200,000 Afghan Security Forces to read and write at a basic level. When you can read and write in Afghanistan, you will typically put a pen in your pocket. At the ceremonies, when these young men and women graduate, they take that pen with great pride, and put it in their pocket. This is bringing together international — there are 50 nations involved in this mission — interagency — these development agencies — and private-public, to take on this kind of security. Now, we are also teaching them combat skills, of course, but I would argue, open-source security means connecting in ways that create longer lasting security effect. Here's another example. This is a US Navy warship. It's called the Comfort. There's a sister ship called the Mercy. They are hospital ships. This one, the Comfort, operates throughout the Caribbean and the coast of South America conducting patient treatments. On a typical cruise, they'll do 400,000 patient treatments. It is crewed not strictly by military but by a combination of humanitarian organizations: Operation Hope, Project Smile. Other organizations send volunteers. Interagency physicians come out. They're all part of this. To give you one example of the impact this can have, this little boy, eight years old, walked with his mother two days to come to the eye clinic put on by the Comfort. When he was fitted, over his extremely myopic eyes, he suddenly looked up and said, ""Mama, veo el mundo."" ""Mom, I see the world."" Multiply this by 400,000 patient treatments, this private-public collaboration with security forces, and you begin to see the power of creating security in a very different way. Here you see baseball players. Can you pick out the two US Army soldiers in this photograph? They are the two young men on either side of these young boys. This is part of a series of baseball clinics, where we have explored collaboration between Major League Baseball, the Department of State, who sets up the diplomatic piece of this, military baseball players, who are real soldiers with real skills but participate in this mission, and they put on clinics throughout Latin America and the Caribbean, in Honduras, in Nicaragua, in all of the Central American and Caribbean nations where baseball is so popular, and it creates security. It shows role models to young men and women about fitness and about life that I would argue help create security for us. Another aspect of this partnership is in disaster relief. This is a US Air Force helicopter participating after the tsunami in 2004 which killed 250,000 people. In each of these major disasters — the tsunami in 2004, 250,000 dead, the Kashmiri earthquake in Pakistan, 2005, 85,000 dead, the Haitian earthquake, about 300,000 dead, more recently the awful earthquake-tsunami combination which struck Japan and its nuclear industry — in all of these instances, we see partnerships between international actors, interagency, private-public working with security forces to respond to this kind of natural disaster. So these are examples of this idea of open-source security. We tie it together, increasingly, by doing things like this. Now, you're looking at this thinking, ""Ah, Admiral, these must be sea lanes of communication, or these might be fiber optic cables."" No. This is a graphic of the world according to Twitter. Purple are tweets. Green are geolocation. White is the synthesis. It's a perfect evocation of that great population survey, the six largest nations in the world in descending order: China, India, Facebook, the United States, Twitter and Indonesia. (Laughter) Why do we want to get in these nets? Why do we want to be involved? We talked earlier about the Arab Spring, and the power of all this. I'll give you another example, and it's how you move this message. I gave a talk like this in London a while back about this point. I said, as I say to all of you, I'm on Facebook. Friend me. Got a little laugh from the audience. There was an article which was run by AP, on the wire. Got picked up in two places in the world: Finland and Indonesia. The headline was: NATO Admiral Needs Friends. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) Which I do. (Laughter) And the story was a catalyst, and the next morning I had hundreds of Facebook friend requests from Indonesians and Finns, mostly saying, ""Admiral, we heard you need a friend, and oh, by the way, what is NATO?"" (Laughter) So ... (Laughter) Yeah, we laugh, but this is how we move the message, and moving that message is how we connect international, interagency, private-public, and these social nets to help create security. Now, let me hit a somber note. This is a photograph of a brave British soldier. He's in the Scots Guards. He's standing the watch in Helmand, in southern Afghanistan. I put him here to remind us, I would not want anyone to leave the room thinking that we do not need capable, competent militaries who can create real military effect. That is the core of who we are and what we do, and we do it to protect freedom, freedom of speech, all the things we treasure in our societies. But, you know, life is not an on-and-off switch. You don't have to have a military that is either in hard combat or is in the barracks. I would argue life is a rheostat. You have to dial it in, and as I think about how we create security in this 21st century, there will be times when we will apply hard power in true war and crisis, but there will be many instances, as we've talked about today, where our militaries can be part of creating 21st-century security, international, interagency, private-public, connected with competent communication. I would close by saying that we heard earlier today about Wikipedia. I use Wikipedia all the time to look up facts, and as all of you appreciate, Wikipedia is not created by 12 brilliant people locked in a room writing articles. Wikipedia, every day, is tens of thousands of people inputting information, and every day millions of people withdrawing that information. It's a perfect image for the fundamental point that no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together. No one person, no one alliance, no one nation, no one of us is as smart as all of us thinking together. The vision statement of Wikipedia is very simple: a world in which every human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. My thesis for you is that by combining international, interagency, private-public, strategic communication, together, in this 21st century, we can create the sum of all security. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	我將要介紹一些開放資源的安全性問題，因爲我們在21世紀已經離安全越來越近了。 我們先回顧一下20世紀吧，然後我們就能了解安全這個概念是如何爲我們而工作。 這裏是Verdun,一個法國的戰場，就在北約在比利時總部的北邊。1916年，在Verdun這個戰場上，700000人在300天內被殺了，那就是差不多2000人一天。 咱們繼續往前看，看到二戰，我們看得到在斯大林格勒保衛戰，300天內有二百萬人戰死。 進入冷戰，我們繼續建造圍牆。我們從一戰的壕溝，到二戰的馬其頓防線，再到冷戰中的鐵幕，柏林牆。牆不管用。 所以我今天的主題是爲了完成“安全”這個目標，我們不建造牆，而建造橋。在歐洲有一個很著名的橋。它在波黑。它在Drina河上，是作家Ivo Andric的一個小說的主題，這部小說講述了如何在歐洲和巴爾幹地區最動蕩的部分大量的牆被築起。而最近，也就是在近十年，我們開始看到這些地區開始，盡管有些猶豫不決，逐漸融合在一起。 我想再次重申，開放式安全是于聯系國際的不同地區的，跨部門的，私人的和公共的，並且把它們通過戰略性溝通，在社交網上聯系在一起有關的。 所以，接下來我將說一些爲什麽我們需要那麽做，因爲我們的共同目標正在受到威脅，而且是多方面的，同時沒有一中威脅能被通過築牆隔離解決。 當然，現在我是一個水手。有一個船在印度洋上航行。這個照片有什麽問題嗎？在這個船上有蛇網環繞。這是用來抵禦海盜的。海盜現在是一個非常主要的全球威脅。這是只是在印度洋。海盜依然在馬六甲海峽很猖狂，也在幾內亞灣，在加勒比海地區。它在全球交通運輸中每年造成了一百億美元的損失。在去年的此刻，有20艘船，500名船員被綁架爲人質。這是一個對全球共同利益的威脅。我們需要想出解決辦法。 現在讓我們轉到另一種海洋，網絡的海洋。這裏有兩個年輕人的照片。在此刻，他們被監禁著。他們做了一個信用卡詐騙案，並且牟利超過一百億美元。這只是對全球經濟造成兩萬億美元損失的網絡犯罪的一部分。兩萬億每年。這僅低于英國的國民生産總值(GDP).所以網絡世界，一個我們深知是網絡開放最關鍵的元素，正在受到威脅。 另一個我要擔心的是由于物流造成的威脅，也就是麻醉劑，鴉片等毒品從阿富汗穿過歐洲到達美國的整個一條運輸線。我們擔心從Andean Ridge（地名）北部運過來的可卡因。我們擔心非法武器的運輸。但最重要的是，我們擔心人力的運輸，以及它的成本。大多數運輸是通過海洋的但也通過我們的共同利益。 這是一張照片，通過它我想告訴你這是一個非常高科技的美國海軍武器用來阻止非法運輸的發生。但壞消息是，這是一個販毒組織的半潛水的設備。它在南美熱帶雨林中被建造，我們通過沒有科技含量的筏子逮捕了它，（笑聲）而它正裝載著六噸的可卡因，四個船員，精良的設備。這種運送麻醉劑，人和武器的天法所不容的運輸就是我們共同利益的威脅的一部分。 現在讓我們完整的看一下阿富汗的今天。在阿富汗有一片罂粟花的，全世界80%到90%的罂粟花，鴉片和海洛因來自阿富汗。當然，我們也看到了恐怖組織。這就是基地組織建立的地方。我們看到了這裏有一個很不穩定的局勢。所以恐怖組織也是我們面臨的威脅的一部分，也是我們必須解決的。 所以，在21世紀，我們知道我們20世紀的方法不管用。我們該怎麽辦？ 我想說我們不能僅僅通過槍支來制造安全。我們不能僅僅依靠槍支，我們需要軍事力量的綜合應用。當我們使用時，我們就必須使用好。 但我所要說的是，開放式安全是關于國際的，跨部門的，私人和公共的聯系，通過互聯網溝通而建立的。 讓我講一個例子。我們有阿富汗，有阿富汗的士兵，他們都拿著書。你可能會說“這真奇怪，我想我曾讀到過在這個地區絕大多數20,30多歲的年輕人都是不識字的。” 你也許是對的。 當他們進入安全部隊的時候，85%是不識字的。爲什麽？因爲塔利班在這些人該學習的時候不提供教育。 所以問題是，爲什麽他們手裏拿著書站在那裏？答案是，我們在叫他們閱讀，通過北約組織的課程，通過和私人組織的合作，通過和發展署的合作。我們已經教了超過200000的阿富汗安全部隊士兵來進行最基本的讀寫。 當你能讀和寫的時候，你就會在你的口袋裏放一支筆。在畢業典禮上，當這些人畢業時，他們很驕傲的拿出筆，並放在他們的口袋裏。這個舉動把全世界——有五十個國家——跨部門的力量私人和公共資源都聯系到了一起，來進行這種安全的建立。 現在，我們當然也教他們格鬥技巧，但我想說，開放式安全意味著爲創造更持久的安全而聯系各個力量。 這裏是另一個例子。這是一個美國海軍戰艦。叫做Comfort（安慰）號。他有一個姊妹艦，叫做Mercy（仁慈）號。他們是友好的戰艦。安慰號在加勒比海和南美洲的海岸進行病人的治療。通常，他會進行400000個治療，船員不是嚴格的部隊人員，而是很多人道主義組織，比如“希望項目”，“微笑工程”。其他組織送來志願者。其他部門的醫生也來了。他們都是這個項目的一部分。 舉個例子來說明這個項目的影響力，這個小孩，8歲，和他的媽媽走了兩天來到安慰號上的眼科診所。當他被治好他的重度近視是，他突然擡頭，然後說：“Mama, veo el mundo.（當地語言）”“媽媽，我看到世界了。”把這個乘以400000，也就是治療數目，這個私人和公共的合作，同時融合了安全力量的項目，開始顯現它的力量，來以一個很不同的方式創造安全。 這張照片是棒球運動員。你能在其中找出兩名美國部隊的士兵嗎？他們是每側最邊上的兩位。這是棒球診所的一部分，在這裏我們嘗試全美棒球聯賽（MLB），國務院，（它建起了外交基礎）在軍隊中的棒球運動員，也就是那些能真正上戰場的人，之間的合作，並且他們把這種診所開到了拉丁美洲和加勒比地區，開到了洪都拉斯，開到了尼加拉瓜，開到了所有中美洲和加勒比的棒球很流行國家，而且它創造了安全感。他爲年輕人建立了關于健身和生活的榜樣，而且我想說這些理念幫助創造了安全。 這個合作的另一部分是災後救援與後續工作。這是一個美國空軍的直升機，它參加了2004年一個殺死250000人的海嘯的救援。在所有的大災難中——2004年海嘯，250000死，2005年巴基斯坦地震，85000死，海地地震，300000死，還有最近的對于日本機器核工業的地震海嘯雙重打擊——在所有這些例子中，我們看到了國際間，跨部門，公私結合的合作，這個合作與安全力量同時響應這種自然災害。所以這些都是我們說的開放式安全的例子。 我們結合在一起，來共同完成這樣的事情。現在你看到這個，應該在想，“啊，船長，這些一定是通信電纜，或者是光線。”不，這是一個Twitter（國外微博網站）公司發的世界地圖。紫色是微博，綠色是地點，白色是結合。這很能讓人想到人口普查，六個人口最多的國家依次是：中國，印度，Facebook（臉譜網），美國，Twitter，和印尼。（笑聲） 我們要這些網幹什麽？我們爲什麽想要在其中？我們之前討論過阿拉伯春天組織，以及它的力量。我再舉一個例子，是關于信息如何傳播的。 我在倫敦發表一個像這個的演講。我說，我對你們說，我在Facebook上，加我好友吧。觀衆在笑。這是AP（美聯社）的一篇文章。世界上有兩個地方，芬蘭和印尼，標題是：北約艦隊司令需要好友。（笑聲）謝謝你們。（掌聲）我會做。（笑聲） 這個故事是一個催化劑，明天早上我就會有上百個Facebook好友請求，來自印尼和芬蘭，大多數都會說：“司令，我們聽說你需要好友，哦，還有，NATO（北約）是什麽？”（笑聲） 所以...（笑聲） 是的，我們笑了，但這就是我們如何傳播信息，也就是我們如何把國際，不同部門，私人和公共，以及那些社會網聯系起來來創造安全。 現在，讓我說一個嚴肅的消息。這是一個勇敢的英國士兵的照片。他在蘇格蘭衛隊，正在Helmand站崗，在阿富汗南部。我把他放出來就是想提醒我們，我不想讓任何人離開這間屋子，抱著“我們不需要軍事部隊”的想法。這正是我們在做的，我們做這個事情來保障自由，言論自由，和其他所有我們在社會中珍視的。 但你知道，生活不是開關。我們沒有要麽在戰爭，要麽在兵營的軍事力量。 我認爲生活是一個可變電阻器，你需要調一個數值，並且正像我認爲我們該如何在21世紀制造安全一樣，我們會需要在真正的戰爭和危機中使用真正強硬的力量，但會有很多時候，就像我們已經討論的，我們的部隊可以使21世紀安全，也就是國際，跨部門，公私結合，的安全模式的一部分，通過溝通來結合起來。 在結束時，我想說在今天早些時候聽到的關于維基百科的一些東西。我經常用維基百科查一些東西，就像你所知道的，維基百科不是靠12個聰明的人把自己關在屋子裏寫文章建立的。維基百科是靠每天數萬人的更新，數百萬人的提取信息而建立的。這完美的說明了沒有一個人能比共同思考更聰明。沒有一個人，沒有一個聯盟，沒有一個國家，能有我們共同思考更睿智。 維基百科的宣言很簡單：創建一個能人人自由共享所有知識的世界。所以，我想說，通過結合國際，多部門，公私力量，戰略通信在一起，在21世紀，我們能創造共同的安全。 謝謝（掌聲） 非常感謝。（掌聲）
