Talk	en	zh-tw
james_balog_time_lapse_proof_of_extreme_ice_loss	"Most of the time, art and science stare at each other across a gulf of mutual incomprehension. There is great confusion when the two look at each other. Art, of course, looks at the world through the psyche, the emotions — the unconscious at times — and of course the aesthetic. Science tends to look at the world through the rational, the quantitative — things that can be measured and described — but it gives art a terrific context of understanding. In the Extreme Ice Survey, we're dedicated to bringing those two parts of human understanding together, to merging the art and science to the end of helping us understand nature and humanity's relationship with nature better. Specifically, I as a person who's been a professional nature photographer my whole adult life, am firmly of the belief that photography, video, film have tremendous powers for helping us understand and shape the way we think about nature and about ourselves in relationship to nature. In this project, we're specifically interested, of course, in ice. I'm fascinated by the beauty of it, the mutability of it, the malleability of it, and the fabulous shapes in which it can carve itself. These first images are from Greenland. But ice has another meaning. Ice is the canary in the global coal mine. It's the place where we can see and touch and hear and feel climate change in action. Climate change is a really abstract thing in most of the world. Whether or not you believe in it is based on your sense of is it raining more or is it raining less? Is it getting hotter or is it getting colder? What do the computer models say about this, that and the other thing? All of that, strip it away. In the world of the arctic and alpine environments, where the ice is, it's real and it's present. The changes are happening. They're very visible. They're photographable. They're measurable. 95 percent of the glaciers in the world are retreating or shrinking. That's outside Antarctica. 95 percent of the glaciers in the world are retreating or shrinking, and that's because the precipitation patterns and the temperature patterns are changing. There is no significant scientific dispute about that. It's been observed, it's measured, it's bomb-proof information. And the great irony and tragedy of our time is that a lot of the general public thinks that science is still arguing about that. Science is not arguing about that. In these images we see ice from enormous glaciers, ice sheets that are hundreds of thousands of years old breaking up into chunks, and chunk by chunk by chunk, iceberg by iceberg, turning into global sea level rise. So, having seen all of this in the course of a 30-year career, I was still a skeptic about climate change until about 10 years ago, because I thought the story of climate change was based on computer models. I hadn't realized it was based on concrete measurements of what the paleoclimates — the ancient climates — were, as recorded in the ice sheets, as recorded in deep ocean sediments, as recorded in lake sediments, tree rings, and a lot of other ways of measuring temperature. When I realized that climate change was real, and it was not based on computer models, I decided that one day I would do a project looking at trying to manifest climate change photographically. And that led me to this project. Initially, I was working on a National Geographic assignment — conventional, single frame, still photography. And one crazy day, I got the idea that I should — after that assignment was finished — I got the idea that I should shoot in time-lapse photography, that I should station a camera or two at a glacier and let it shoot every 15 minutes, or every hour or whatever and watch the progression of the landscape over time. Well, within about three weeks, I incautiously turned that idea of a couple of time-lapse cameras into 25 time-lapse cameras. And the next six months of my life were the hardest time in my career, trying to design, build and deploy out in the field these 25 time-lapse cameras. They are powered by the sun. Solar panels power them. Power goes into a battery. There is a custom made computer that tells the camera when to fire. And these cameras are positioned on rocks on the sides of the glaciers, and they look in on the glacier from permanent, bedrock positions, and they watch the evolution of the landscape. We just had a number of cameras out on the Greenland Ice Sheet. We actually drilled holes into the ice, way deep down below the thawing level, and had some cameras out there for the past month and a half or so. Actually, there's still a camera out there right now. In any case, the cameras shoot roughly every hour. Some of them shoot every half hour, every 15 minutes, every five minutes. Here's a time lapse of one of the time-lapse units being made. (Laughter) I personally obsessed about every nut, bolt and washer in these crazy things. I spent half my life at our local hardware store during the months when we built these units originally. We're working in most of the major glaciated regions of the northern hemisphere. Our time-lapse units are in Alaska, the Rockies, Greenland and Iceland, and we have repeat photography positions, that is places we just visit on an annual basis, in British Columbia, the Alps and Bolivia. It's a big undertaking. I stand here before you tonight as an ambassador for my whole team. There's a lot of people working on this right now. We've got 33 cameras out this moment. We just had 33 cameras shoot about half an hour ago all across the northern hemisphere, watching what's happened. And we've spent a lot of time in the field. It's been a fantastic amount of work. We've been out for two and a half years, and we've got about another two and a half years yet to go. That's only half our job. The other half of our job is to tell the story to the global public. You know, scientists have collected this kind of information off and on over the years, but a lot of it stays within the science community. Similarly, a lot of art projects stay in the art community, and I feel very much a responsibility through mechanisms like TED, and like our relationship with the Obama White House, with the Senate, with John Kerry, to influence policy as much as possible with these pictures as well. We've done films. We've done books. We have more coming. We have a site on Google Earth that Google Earth was generous enough to give us, and so forth, because we feel very much the need to tell this story, because it is such an immediate evidence of ongoing climate change right now. Now, one bit of science before we get into the visuals. If everybody in the developed world understood this graph, and emblazoned it on the inside of their foreheads, there would be no further societal argument about climate change because this is the story that counts. Everything else you hear is just propaganda and confusion. Key issues: this is a 400,000 year record. This exact same pattern is seen going back now almost a million years before our current time. And several things are important. Number one: temperature and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere go up and down basically in sync. You can see that from the orange line and the blue line. Nature naturally has allowed carbon dioxide to go up to 280 parts per million. That's the natural cycle. Goes up to 280 and then drops for various reasons that aren't important to discuss right here. But 280 is the peak. Right now, if you look at the top right part of that graph, we're at 385 parts per million. We are way, way outside the normal, natural variability. Earth is having a fever. In the past hundred years, the temperature of the Earth has gone up 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit, .75 degrees Celsius, and it's going to keep going up because we keep dumping fossil fuels into the atmosphere. At the rate of about two and a half parts per million per year. It's been a remorseless, steady increase. We have to turn that around. That's the crux, and someday I hope to emblazon that across Times Square in New York and a lot of other places. But anyway, off to the world of ice. We're now at the Columbia Glacier in Alaska. This is a view of what's called the calving face. This is what one of our cameras saw over the course of a few months. You see the glacier flowing in from the right, dropping off into the sea, camera shooting every hour. If you look in the middle background, you can see the calving face bobbing up and down like a yo-yo. That means that glacier's floating and it's unstable, and you're about to see the consequences of that floating. To give you a little bit of a sense of scale, that calving face in this picture is about 325 feet tall. That's 32 stories. This is not a little cliff. This is like a major office building in an urban center. The calving face is the wall where the visible ice breaks off, but in fact, it goes down below sea level another couple thousand feet. So there's a wall of ice a couple thousand feet deep going down to bedrock if the glacier's grounded on bedrock, and floating if it isn't. Here's what Columbia's done. This is in south central Alaska. This was an aerial picture I did one day in June three years ago. This is an aerial picture we did this year. That's the retreat of this glacier. The main stem, the main flow of the glacier is coming from the right and it's going very rapidly up that stem. We're going to be up there in just a few more weeks, and we expect that it's probably retreated another half a mile, but if I got there and discovered that it had collapsed and it was five miles further back, I wouldn't be the least bit surprised. Now it's really hard to grasp the scale of these places, because as the glaciers — one of the things is that places like Alaska and Greenland are huge, they're not normal landscapes — but as the glaciers are retreating, they're also deflating, like air is being let out of a balloon. And so, there are features on this landscape. There's a ridge right in the middle of the picture, up above where that arrow comes in, that shows you that a little bit. There's a marker line called the trim line above our little red illustration there. This is something no self-respecting photographer would ever do — you put some cheesy illustration on your shot, right? — and yet you have to do it sometimes to narrate these points. But, in any case, the deflation of this glacier since 1984 has been higher than the Eiffel Tower, higher than the Empire State Building. A tremendous amount of ice has been let out of these valleys as it's retreated and deflated, gone back up valley. These changes in the alpine world are accelerating. It's not static. Particularly in the world of sea ice, the rate of natural change is outstripping predictions of just a few years ago, and the processes either are accelerating or the predictions were too low to begin with. But in any case, there are big, big changes happening as we speak. So, here's another time-lapse shot of Columbia. And you see where it ended in these various spring days, June, May, then October. Now we turn on our time lapse. This camera was shooting every hour. Geologic process in action here. And everybody says, well don't they advance in the winter time? No. It was retreating through the winter because it's an unhealthy glacier. Finally catches up to itself, it advances. And you can look at these pictures over and over again because there's such a strange, bizarre fascination in seeing these things you don't normally get to see come alive. We've been talking about ""seeing is believing "" and seeing the unseen at TED Global. That's what you see with these cameras. The images make the invisible visible. These huge crevasses open up. These great ice islands break off — and now watch this. This has been the springtime this year — a huge collapse. That happened in about a month, the loss of all that ice. So that's where we started three years ago, way out on the left, and that's where we were a few months ago, the last time we went into Columbia. To give you a feeling for the scale of the retreat, we did another cheesy illustration, with British double-decker buses. If you line up 295 of those nose to tail, that's about how far back that was. It's a long way. On up to Iceland. One of my favorite glaciers, the Sólheimajökull. And here, if you watch, you can see the terminus retreating. You can see this river being formed. You can see it deflating. Without the photographic process, you would never see this. This is invisible. You can stand up there your whole life and you would never see this, but the camera records it. So we wind time backwards now. We go back a couple years in time. That's where it started. That's where it ended a few months ago. And on up to Greenland. The smaller the ice mass, the faster it responds to climate. Greenland took a little while to start reacting to the warming climate of the past century, but it really started galloping along about 20 years ago. And there's been a tremendous increase in the temperature up there. It's a big place. That's all ice. All those colors are ice and it goes up to about two miles thick, just a gigantic dome that comes in from the coast and rises in the middle. The one glacier up in Greenland that puts more ice into the global ocean than all the other glaciers in the northern hemisphere combined is the Ilulissat Glacier. We have some cameras on the south edge of the Ilulissat, watching the calving face as it goes through this dramatic retreat. Here's a two-year record of what that looks like. Helicopter in front of the calving face for scale, quickly dwarfed. The calving face is four and a half miles across, and in this shot, as we pull back, you're only seeing about a mile and a half. So, imagine how big this is and how much ice is charging out. The interior of Greenland is to the right. It's flowing out to the Atlantic Ocean on the left. Icebergs, many, many, many, many times the size of this building, are roaring out to sea. We just downloaded these pictures a couple weeks ago, as you can see. June 25th, monster calving events happened. I'll show you one of those in a second. This glacier has doubled its flow speed in the past 15 years. It now goes at 125 feet a day, dumping all this ice into the ocean. It tends to go in these pulses, about every three days, but on average, 125 feet a day, twice the rate it did 20 years ago. Okay. We had a team out watching this glacier, and we recorded the biggest calving event that's ever been put on film. We had nine cameras going. This is what a couple of the cameras saw. A 400-foot-tall calving face breaking off. Huge icebergs rolling over. Okay, how big was that? It's hard to get it. So an illustration again, gives you a feeling for scale. A mile of retreat in 75 minutes across the calving face, in that particular event, three miles wide. The block was three-fifths of a mile deep, and if you compare the expanse of the calving face to the Tower Bridge in London, about 20 bridges wide. Or if you take an American reference, to the U.S. Capitol Building and you pack 3,000 Capitol Buildings into that block, it would be equivalent to how large that block was. 75 minutes. Now I've come to the conclusion after spending a lot of time in this climate change world that we don't have a problem of economics, technology and public policy. We have a problem of perception. The policy and the economics and the technology are serious enough issues, but we actually can deal with them. I'm certain that we can. But what we have is a perception problem because not enough people really get it yet. You're an elite audience. You get it. Fortunately, a lot of the political leaders in the major countries of the world are an elite audience that for the most part gets it now. But we still need to bring a lot of people along with us. And that's where I think organizations like TED, like the Extreme Ice Survey can have a terrific impact on human perception and bring us along. Because I believe we have an opportunity right now. We are nearly on the edge of a crisis, but we still have an opportunity to face the greatest challenge of our generation and, in fact, of our century. This is a terrific, terrific call to arms to do the right thing for ourselves and for the future. I hope that we have the wisdom to let the angels of our better nature rise to the occasion and do what needs to be done. Thank you. (Applause)"	大部分的時間，藝術和科學格格不入.如果硬要相提並論那麼就會造成很多疑惑.藝術當然著眼於內在心靈,情感的世界有時甚至是潛在意識的—還有當然是審美觀念。科學的世界趨向理性,量化—東西可以衡量和描述—但也因此它給了藝術的一個很好的環境被理解和明白 在我們極度冰川調查中，我們致力於將人類認識的藝術和科學融合一起,最終幫助我們更加了解自然和人類的關係.更具體來說，成長後我的專業一直是自然風景攝影師,我堅信攝影,錄像和電影有強大的力量來幫助我們理解，雕塑我們對自然的思維方式和我們跟自然的關係. 在這個計劃中,我們特別感興趣的當然是冰。我迷上了它的美麗,它的千變萬化性，它的延展性，及它自己可以雕刻本身成各種神奇的形狀。第一批的這些圖片是從格陵蘭照的。但冰有另外的含義。冰提供地球發生危機的先兆( 像礦坑中的金絲雀作用一樣)在冰川這地方,我們可以用五官去看,觸摸,聽到,和感覺到氣候變化的現象. 對世界上大多數人來說氣候變化是一個非常抽象的東西。不管你是否根據您自己感覺有否下雨較多還是下雨變少了.或是氣溫越來越熱或是越來越冷.或是根據電腦模式計算,還有其他計算方法把這一切方法,都放一邊吧! 在北極和高地氣候的環境中，冰是指標，[氣候變化]是真真的而且是在當下這些現時發生的變化。是非常明顯,可用照相檔案來衡量的. 世界上百分之95的冰川正在縮退或變小.這是南極洲之外圍(照片).世界上百分之95的冰川正在退縮或變小,因為降雨量和溫度模式改變.對此科學上並沒有重大爭議,它是已被觀察到,已被測量出,這是鐵證如山的証明.對我們這個時代而言最諷刺和最可悲的是很多人還在認為,科學家們仍在爭論(氣候不正常變化)這一點.其實科學已完全接受這一點.由這些圖像,我們看到幾千萬年的冰塊從廣大的冰川上分解成一塊，和一塊，一塊塊的，變成一座座冰山,而這些冰山把全球海平面提高上升。 雖經過30年的職業生涯的浸淫，直到大約10年前,我仍然對氣候變化持懷疑態度因為我覺得這個是根據電腦程式而計算的氣候變化模型.我沒有意識到它是根據確實的歷史氣候測量數據—就是paleo 氣候-—古代氣候 —它們被記錄在冰床中，被記錄在深海沉積物中，被記錄在湖泊沉積物中,樹木年輪和很多測量溫度其他方式裡. 當我意識到氣候變化是真實的,它不是基於電腦程式模型，我決定有一天我會運用攝影來展現氣候變化.然後我就組織這個計劃團隊.最初，我的工作是一項有關國家地理雜誌的計劃,很傳統的,單一的框架的攝影.但有一天,我有一個瘋狂的主意.我應該—當這工作完成之後—我應該拍攝自動定時照片.我應該安裝一,兩台照相機對著冰川,讓它每15分鐘,或者每隔一小時或不同間隔拍攝一次，看冰川的風景隨著時間的推移而轉變的情形. 在大約三個星期內，我不知不覺把定時照相機從兩台增加成25台.於是接下去的六個月,是我職業生涯中最困難的時候,我試圖設計,建造和部署了這25台定時照相機.它們都採用了太陽能充電,然後電源進入電池內儲存.用一種特製的電腦,來監控定時照相機的開闢.這些照相機被安裝在冰川邊的岩石上然後從穩定的岩床位子記錄觀察冰川不斷的演變.我們剛在格陵蘭冰床設放幾台照相機.實際上,我們在冰床鑽孔,一直深入到不會被融化的那層冰為止,然後把相機架好在那兒一個月或半月等等.現在我們仍有一台正在那兒拍照呢!定時拍照的時間間隔是大約一小時,有些半小時,15分鐘或5分鐘不等. 這是定時拍攝的相片展示一台定時照相機的製造過程.(笑聲)我個人瘋狂熱衷的用每一個螺母，螺栓和墊圈去組成這些定時照相機.當我們最初興建這些相機時,我一半的生命是花費了在附近的五金店. 我們工作研究的地方主要是北半球的大多數冰川地區,我們把定時攝影器材設立在阿拉斯加,落基山脈,格陵蘭,冰島，我們會在同一地方重複攝影,這些地區我們每年都會去.像是不列顛哥倫比亞省,阿爾卑斯山和玻利維亞。 這是一個艱鉅的任務。今晚我站在這裡，在你面前代表整個團隊。有很多人現在都在做這項工作。在這一刻我們有33個照相機在外。半小時前我們有33相機拍攝完成,在北半球記錄冰川的差別.我們花了很多時間在冰川那裡.也得到大量且驚人的照片。我們已經進行了兩年半了，我們大概還會再繼續另外兩年半的時間. 這只是我們一半的工作。我們另一半的工作是告訴全球公眾冰川變化的故事。你知道嗎,科學家斷斷續續已經收集這類信息多年，但很多資訊只停留在科學界。同樣,很多藝術作品只有藝術界知道，我感到非常有責任通過各種機制像TED，像我們與奧巴馬白宮與參議院的關係，與約翰克里辦公室的交情，用這些照片去盡量影響法律政策.我們已經完成電影,出版有關書籍。未來我們會做更多。我們甚至有一個網站在谷歌地球(Google Earth)，這是谷歌慷慨免費給我們的-所有的一切,是因為我們感到非常有必要告訴大家這件事，因為這是一個直接證據可証明現在氣候變化正在進行。 現在,讓我們先討論一點科學數據,然後再看影片如果每個先進國家的每個人理解這圖表，而且把此圖牢牢的記憶在腦海內那將來群眾就不會有任何對氣候變化的爭論，因為事實勝雄辯.其他的不同理論只不過是一種宣傳和混亂視聽的手段.關鍵是:這是40萬年來氣象紀錄圖,几乎完全一樣的這種氣象變化模式.已經約有一百萬年了.這有幾件事情是很重要的。 一：溫度和在大氣中的二氧化碳含量基本上是同步上揚或下降.這你可從橙色線和藍線中看到。大自然的自然法則是可容許二氧化碳含量上升到百萬分之280(280ppm)。這是自然的循環。上升到280然後由於種種原因就會下跌，這不是今天重點,所以現在不討論。但280是其最高點.現在，如果你看看右上角的圖那部分，我們正處於385ppm。這大大超過正常,自然的變異範圍.地球正在發燒。在過去的百年裡,地球的溫度已經上升了華氏1.3度,或攝氏0.75度，而且這將繼續下去因為我們把化石燃料廢氣以每年2.5ppm的速度持續排放到大氣中。這現象一直無情堅持不懈，穩步增長。 我們必須要扭轉這種現象，這是關鍵所在,有一天我希望有紀念碑橫跨在紐約時代廣場和許多其他地方來提醒我們。但現在,回到冰之世界。 我們現在在阿拉斯加的哥倫比亞冰川。這個照片是有關所謂的冰川裂開形成冰山的切面。這是我們的一個照相機在這幾個月中所記錄的。你瞧瞧冰山從右邊流出，落入海中，我們每隔一小時拍攝一次。如果你看中間部份的背景，你可以看到形成冰山的切面向上和向下漂浮像溜溜球一樣。這意味著該冰川是浮動的,不穩定的，你將看到它浮動後的後果是什麼。為了讓您更瞭解它代表的意義我們用數字表示，這照片中,產生冰山的切面大約325英尺高。相當於32層樓房。這不是一個小斷崖。這就像在城市中心一個高大的辦公建築。該切面像面牆,而在此可見到冰斷裂剝離，這切面在低於海平面下還有兩千英尺。所以這個冰牆還要向下兩千英尺深.無論是穩固的冰川或是漂浮的冰山都還要向下伸展兩千英尺深. 以上是發生在哥倫比亞的。接著討論阿拉斯加中南部。這是我三年前在六月的某一天所拍的空中鳥瞰圖。這是我們今年拍的。看這冰川主流幹後退的情況.此照片中冰川主流幹是冰水冰塊快速從右邊流入湧進主流幹.數星期後,我們還會到那裡.我們預估冰川主流幹會再後退半英里,但是如果我們看到一切都瓦解了,而冰川主流幹又後退5公里,我一點也不會感到驚訝的. 這真的很難想像其尺寸規模，因為這些冰川-比如從一方面來說，阿拉斯加和格陵蘭島這些地方的冰川是巨大的，他們不是我們易見的景觀 -但由於冰川一直持續退縮，一直消減，像一個氣球裡的空氣一直被釋放出來一樣。而且這是個有特色的景觀。在這照片的正中有一列山嶺,在箭頭的上方位置,箭頭使你可以更容易找到山嶺些.有一個標記線稱為修剪線,就在我們紅色標誌的上面.這可不是一個正常高尚攝影師會做的事情--放一些俗氣裝飾插圖在自己的照片中,你說是不是?但有時你必須這樣做,才能正確闡述要表達的重點。但是，不管如何，這個冰川自1984年以來縮小程度已經超過艾菲爾鐵塔的高度,或帝國大廈的高度。 當冰川後退及消失一直退縮回山谷時,大量的冰山冰塊也從這些山谷中流失.這些變化現象在高山冰寒世界正在加速惡化。它不是靜態的。尤其是海洋中的冰世界，幾年前自然變化的速率已經是超越了預測，而無論是加速過快或開始的時候預測過低。無法否認,在我們說話這時,氣象已有大大的變化。 這裡有另一個定時拍攝哥倫比亞照片,你可以看到在春天每月不同的變化景觀,六月,五月,可能的話也包含十月.現在我們起動定時拍攝儀器,每隔一小時拍攝一次地理景觀的變化正在發生每個人都以為冬天情況就應該不會惡化.但不是的!即使冬天也一直退縮,因為它是一個不健康的冰川。一次比一次嚴重.冰川消失一直在進行. 你可以一遍又一遍看這些照片，看到這些照片真有一個奇怪的,奇異的感覺,因為正常狀況你不可能見到這樣的現象,彷彿有生命一像.我們都知道百聞不如一見，而此時在TED Global我們看到本應看不見的景觀.全都因為照相機的鏡頭,這些照片使無形變可見。巨大的冰隙裂開來,一些巨大的冰島脫離冰川而漂流走現在看這個。這是今年春天一個巨大的崩離。這發生大約需要一個月，流失很多冰。 這就是我們三年的成果，從最左邊最早開始起到右邊幾個月前的結果,也就是我們最近進入哥倫比亞冰川的時刻.為了讓你更感覺得到冰川撤退規模，我們再用插圖來表達,如果用英國雙層巴士來計算,須要295輛雙層巴士頭碰尾緊接排一線才夠長,那可是很長的距離啊. 讓我們回到冰島。我最喜歡的冰川之一，名叫Sólheimajökull。在這裡,如果你注意,你可以看到邊際一直在後退，你可以看到河流正在形成，你可以看到它(冰川)在縮小。如果沒有攝影的過程,你絕不會看到這現象。這是你看不見的。你可以永遠站在那裡也看不到這些現象，但是相機把它記錄下來了。 現在讓我們把時光倒退回到兩年前,就是我們剛開始時的時刻.然後這就是它數月前的景觀。 接著來看格陵蘭島。冰體越小,受氣候影響速度越快.格陵蘭島經過一段時間才開始對上個世紀出現的氣候變暖現象產生反應.事實上大約20年前情況才加速惡化當然那邊氣溫也上升很多. 很大的地方。全部都是冰。照片中有顏色的部份都是冰,冰層大約有兩公里厚.像一個巨大的圓形巨蛋,從海岸升起展延到中間最高.在格陵蘭島裡有一個冰川分裂融入全球海洋的冰比所有在北半球其他冰川融入的更多:那就是Ilulissat冰川 我們把一些相機設立在Ilulissat冰川南方邊緣的地區,面臨著冰山的裂切面並且觀察它驚心動魄的撤退融化。這裡是一個為期兩年的紀錄,直升機對著在冰山的裂切面來顯示它的規模, 鏡頭拉遠直升機就會迅速變小.這裡的冰山的裂切面是4.5英里.在這張照片即使我們儘量後退也只能照到1.5英里.因此，你可以想像，這是有多大，有多少冰在此流失.格陵蘭內陸是在右邊.所以冰是流出到左邊的大西洋.冰山。比這座建築物大很多很多倍的冰山咆哮洶湧的併入大海。 我們幾個星期前才下載這些照片，你看,是6月25日妖魅巨大的冰山裂切發生。我等會讓你們看見其中的一個. 在過去15年內,這個冰川的流動速度增加了一倍。現在它用每天125英尺的速度,把所有的冰傾倒到海洋裡。它們傾向以每三天一個週期往前移動,但平均而言,每天125英尺，比20年前快兩倍的速度 好。我們有一個小組正在觀看著這冰川，於是我們記錄下電影未曾記錄過的最大冰山裂切事件。我們有九個照相機同時攝影。而這是一些照相機所記錄的。一個400英尺高的冰山正裂切脫離。巨大的，巨大的冰山翻滾入海。嗯，你猜那有多大呢？這很難去想像它。因此，再次用插圖說明這種具體規模的感覺。大概一英里冰山裂切只要75分鐘,整個冰山裂切面的出口一英里，三英里寬。該區塊約是五分之三英里深，如果你比較冰山裂切面的寬度和倫敦的倫敦塔橋比較，是須要20座橋的闊度。或者，如果你拿到一個美國的地標做參考,如美國國會大廈，須要3000座美國國會大廈才能填滿那區域，就相當那麼大.而這些崩裂都在75分鐘內發生。 現在,我已經得出結論，在花了很多時間研究有關於氣候變化後那就是我們的問題不是經濟,技術和政治議題。我們的問題是在於認知方面的.當然,政治政策和經濟和技術上的問題是很嚴重，但我們其實可以解決的。我非常肯定,我們有能力能解決。但我們有一種認知方面的問題,因為沒有足夠多的人真正知道瞭解這件氣候變化問題你們是精英群眾。你們瞭解它。幸運的是，許多世界上主要國家的的政治領導人都是精英人物,大多數都瞭解它的嚴重性。但是,我們仍然需要很多人跟我們一起努力。而這正是我認為像TED這樣的組織，像極度冰川調查對人類認知方面有一個很大的影響力,使我們團結一起。因為我相信我們現在還有一個機會。 即使,我們正面臨危機，但我們仍然有一個機會去逆轉危機.這是我們這一代最大的挑戰，事實上，是這世紀最大的挑戰。是該大家備戰了!一同努力為我們自己和未來做對的抉擇.我希望我們有智慧,讓我們發揮我們善良的一面,做什麼需要做的事情. 謝謝. 拍手!
