Talk	en	zh-tw
james_hansen_why_i_must_speak_out_about_climate_change	"What do I know that would cause me, a reticent, Midwestern scientist, to get myself arrested in front of the White House protesting? And what would you do if you knew what I know? Let's start with how I got to this point. I was lucky to grow up at a time when it was not difficult for the child of a tenant farmer to make his way to the state university. And I was really lucky to go to the University of Iowa where I could study under Professor James Van Allen who built instruments for the first U.S. satellites. Professor Van Allen told me about observations of Venus, that there was intense microwave radiation. Did it mean that Venus had an ionosphere? Or was Venus extremely hot? The right answer, confirmed by the Soviet Venera spacecraft, was that Venus was very hot — 900 degrees Fahrenheit. And it was kept hot by a thick carbon dioxide atmosphere. I was fortunate to join NASA and successfully propose an experiment to fly to Venus. Our instrument took this image of the veil of Venus, which turned out to be a smog of sulfuric acid. But while our instrument was being built, I became involved in calculations of the greenhouse effect here on Earth, because we realized that our atmospheric composition was changing. Eventually, I resigned as principal investigator on our Venus experiment because a planet changing before our eyes is more interesting and important. Its changes will affect all of humanity. The greenhouse effect had been well understood for more than a century. British physicist John Tyndall, in the 1850's, made laboratory measurements of the infrared radiation, which is heat. And he showed that gasses such as CO2 absorb heat, thus acting like a blanket warming Earth's surface. I worked with other scientists to analyze Earth climate observations. In 1981, we published an article in Science magazine concluding that observed warming of 0.4 degrees Celsius in the prior century was consistent with the greenhouse effect of increasing CO2. That Earth would likely warm in the 1980's, and warming would exceed the noise level of random weather by the end of the century. We also said that the 21st century would see shifting climate zones, creation of drought-prone regions in North America and Asia, erosion of ice sheets, rising sea levels and opening of the fabled Northwest Passage. All of these impacts have since either happened or are now well under way. That paper was reported on the front page of the New York Times and led to me testifying to Congress in the 1980's, testimony in which I emphasized that global warming increases both extremes of the Earth's water cycle. Heatwaves and droughts on one hand, directly from the warming, but also, because a warmer atmosphere holds more water vapor with its latent energy, rainfall will become in more extreme events. There will be stronger storms and greater flooding. Global warming hoopla became time-consuming and distracted me from doing science — partly because I had complained that the White House altered my testimony. So I decided to go back to strictly doing science and leave the communication to others. By 15 years later, evidence of global warming was much stronger. Most of the things mentioned in our 1981 paper were facts. I had the privilege to speak twice to the president's climate task force. But energy policies continued to focus on finding more fossil fuels. By then we had two grandchildren, Sophie and Connor. I decided that I did not want them in the future to say, ""Opa understood what was happening, but he didn't make it clear."" So I decided to give a public talk criticizing the lack of an appropriate energy policy. I gave the talk at the University of Iowa in 2004 and at the 2005 meeting of the American Geophysical Union. This led to calls from the White House to NASA headquarters and I was told that I could not give any talks or speak with the media without prior explicit approval by NASA headquarters. After I informed the New York Times about these restrictions, NASA was forced to end the censorship. But there were consequences. I had been using the first line of the NASA mission statement, ""To understand and protect the home planet,"" to justify my talks. Soon the first line of the mission statement was deleted, never to appear again. Over the next few years I was drawn more and more into trying to communicate the urgency of a change in energy policies, while still researching the physics of climate change. Let me describe the most important conclusion from the physics — first, from Earth's energy balance and, second, from Earth's climate history. Adding CO2 to the air is like throwing another blanket on the bed. It reduces Earth's heat radiation to space, so there's a temporary energy imbalance. More energy is coming in than going out, until Earth warms up enough to again radiate to space as much energy as it absorbs from the Sun. So the key quantity is Earth's energy imbalance. Is there more energy coming in than going out? If so, more warming is in the pipeline. It will occur without adding any more greenhouse gasses. Now finally, we can measure Earth's energy imbalance precisely by measuring the heat content in Earth's heat reservoirs. The biggest reservoir, the ocean, was the least well measured, until more than 3,000 Argo floats were distributed around the world's ocean. These floats reveal that the upper half of the ocean is gaining heat at a substantial rate. The deep ocean is also gaining heat at a smaller rate, and energy is going into the net melting of ice all around the planet. And the land, to depths of tens of meters, is also warming. The total energy imbalance now is about six-tenths of a watt per square meter. That may not sound like much, but when added up over the whole world, it's enormous. It's about 20 times greater than the rate of energy use by all of humanity. It's equivalent to exploding 400,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs per day 365 days per year. That's how much extra energy Earth is gaining each day. This imbalance, if we want to stabilize climate, means that we must reduce CO2 from 391 ppm, parts per million, back to 350 ppm. That is the change needed to restore energy balance and prevent further warming. Climate change deniers argue that the Sun is the main cause of climate change. But the measured energy imbalance occurred during the deepest solar minimum in the record, when the Sun's energy reaching Earth was least. Yet, there was more energy coming in than going out. This shows that the effect of the Sun's variations on climate is overwhelmed by the increasing greenhouse gasses, mainly from burning fossil fuels. Now consider Earth's climate history. These curves for global temperature, atmospheric CO2 and sea level were derived from ocean cores and Antarctic ice cores, from ocean sediments and snowflakes that piled up year after year over 800,000 years forming a two-mile thick ice sheet. As you see, there's a high correlation between temperature, CO2 and sea level. Careful examination shows that the temperature changes slightly lead the CO2 changes by a few centuries. Climate change deniers like to use this fact to confuse and trick the public by saying, ""Look, the temperature causes CO2 to change, not vice versa."" But that lag is exactly what is expected. Small changes in Earth's orbit that occur over tens to hundreds of thousands of years alter the distribution of sunlight on Earth. When there is more sunlight at high latitudes in summer, ice sheets melt. Shrinking ice sheets make the planet darker, so it absorbs more sunlight and becomes warmer. A warmer ocean releases CO2, just as a warm Coca-Cola does. And more CO2 causes more warming. So CO2, methane, and ice sheets were feedbacks that amplified global temperature change causing these ancient climate oscillations to be huge, even though the climate change was initiated by a very weak forcing. The important point is that these same amplifying feedbacks will occur today. The physics does not change. As Earth warms, now because of extra CO2 we put in the atmosphere, ice will melt, and CO2 and methane will be released by warming ocean and melting permafrost. While we can't say exactly how fast these amplifying feedbacks will occur, it is certain they will occur, unless we stop the warming. There is evidence that feedbacks are already beginning. Precise measurements by GRACE, the gravity satellite, reveal that both Greenland and Antarctica are now losing mass, several hundred cubic kilometers per year. And the rate has accelerated since the measurements began nine years ago. Methane is also beginning to escape from the permafrost. What sea level rise can we look forward to? The last time CO2 was 390 ppm, today's value, sea level was higher by at least 15 meters, 50 feet. Where you are sitting now would be under water. Most estimates are that, this century, we will get at least one meter. I think it will be more if we keep burning fossil fuels, perhaps even five meters, which is 18 feet, this century or shortly thereafter. The important point is that we will have started a process that is out of humanity's control. Ice sheets would continue to disintegrate for centuries. There would be no stable shoreline. The economic consequences are almost unthinkable. Hundreds of New Orleans-like devastations around the world. What may be more reprehensible, if climate denial continues, is extermination of species. The monarch butterfly could be one of the 20 to 50 percent of all species that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates will be ticketed for extinction by the end of the century if we stay on business-as-usual fossil fuel use. Global warming is already affecting people. The Texas, Oklahoma, Mexico heatwave and drought last year, Moscow the year before and Europe in 2003, were all exceptional events, more than three standard deviations outside the norm. Fifty years ago, such anomalies covered only two- to three-tenths of one percent of the land area. In recent years, because of global warming, they now cover about 10 percent — an increase by a factor of 25 to 50. So we can say with a high degree of confidence that the severe Texas and Moscow heatwaves were not natural; they were caused by global warming. An important impact, if global warming continues, will be on the breadbasket of our nation and the world, the Midwest and Great Plains, which are expected to become prone to extreme droughts, worse than the Dust Bowl, within just a few decades, if we let global warming continue. How did I get dragged deeper and deeper into an attempt to communicate, giving talks in 10 countries, getting arrested, burning up the vacation time that I had accumulated over 30 years? More grandchildren helped me along. Jake is a super-positive, enthusiastic boy. Here at age two and a half years, he thinks he can protect his two and a half-day-old little sister. It would be immoral to leave these young people with a climate system spiraling out of control. Now the tragedy about climate change is that we can solve it with a simple, honest approach of a gradually rising carbon fee collected from fossil fuel companies and distributed 100 percent electronically every month to all legal residents on a per capita basis, with the government not keeping one dime. Most people would get more in the monthly dividend than they'd pay in increased prices. This fee and dividend would stimulate the economy and innovations, creating millions of jobs. It is the principal requirement for moving us rapidly to a clean energy future. Several top economists are coauthors on this proposition. Jim DiPeso of Republicans for Environmental Protection describes it thusly: ""Transparent. Market-based. Does not enlarge government. Leaves energy decisions to individual choices. Sounds like a conservative climate plan."" But instead of placing a rising fee on carbon emissions to make fossil fuels pay their true cost to society, our governments are forcing the public to subsidize fossil fuels by 400 to 500 billion dollars per year worldwide, thus encouraging extraction of every fossil fuel — mountaintop removal, longwall mining, fracking, tar sands, tar shale, deep ocean Arctic drilling. This path, if continued, guarantees that we will pass tipping points leading to ice sheet disintegration that will accelerate out of control of future generations. A large fraction of species will be committed to extinction. And increasing intensity of droughts and floods will severely impact breadbaskets of the world, causing massive famines and economic decline. Imagine a giant asteroid on a direct collision course with Earth. That is the equivalent of what we face now. Yet, we dither, taking no action to divert the asteroid, even though the longer we wait, the more difficult and expensive it becomes. If we had started in 2005, it would have required emission reductions of three percent per year to restore planetary energy balance and stabilize climate this century. If we start next year, it is six percent per year. If we wait 10 years, it is 15 percent per year — extremely difficult and expensive, perhaps impossible. But we aren't even starting. So now you know what I know that is moving me to sound this alarm. Clearly, I haven't gotten this message across. The science is clear. I need your help to communicate the gravity and the urgency of this situation and its solutions more effectively. We owe it to our children and grandchildren. Thank you. (Applause)"	我到底知道些什麼能讓我這個沉默的中西部科學家在一次白宮的抗議中被逮捕？如果你知道我所知道的事你會怎麼做？我們就從我如何開始關注這個議題開始吧我很慶幸能生長在從輕易從佃農子弟一路讀到州立大學的年代 並且很幸運地能在愛荷華大學詹姆斯．范．艾倫教授門下學習詹姆斯．范．艾倫教授曾參與美國第一顆衛星的建造范．艾倫教授曾提過他對於金星的觀察心得：金星有強烈的微波幅射這代表金星有電離層嗎？還是金星氣溫極高呢？正確答案是金星表面溫度極高正如蘇聯的金星飛行器所證實金星的氣溫高達華氏900度且因一層厚厚的二氧化碳大氣層使得氣溫居高不下 我很幸運能加入美國太空總署並且獲准前往金星進行實驗飛行器拍下了這張揭開金星面紗的照片這張照片證明了金星表層覆蓋著大量硫酸煙霧當衛星還在建造時我開始思考溫室效應對地球的影響因為我們意識到大氣成分正在改變最後，我辭去了金星計畫中首席研究員的職位因為眼前地球的變遷較值得關注也非常重要這些變遷將會影響全人類 溫室效應在這個世紀早已廣為人知1850 年，英國物理學家約翰．丁達爾在實驗室做了紅外線輻射的測量也就是熱的測量並且表示二氧化碳這類氣體會吸收熱能就像幫地球蓋上棉被保暖 我和幾位科學家共同解析地球氣候的觀察在 1981 年我們在科學雜誌發表了一篇文章結論是因為溫室效應二氧化碳的增加地球每個世紀溫度都會上升0.4度C地球很有可能是在 1980 年間才開始升溫並且在本世紀末自然天候所會產生的暖化現象危害程度將會更加劇烈我們還認為 21 世紀可能看到氣候區變動、北美和亞洲易遭旱災地區的形成、冰原侵蝕、海平面上升和西北航道的開通所有這些影響不是已經發生就是正要發生 這篇文章上了紐約時報頭版讓我在 1980 年代向美國國會證實此事公開聲明強調全球暖化會使地球的水循環更加極端一方面，暖化會帶來熱浪和乾旱另一方面越溫暖的大氣層能容納越多帶有潛在能量的水蒸氣如此一來降水量會更極端暴風雨會更強；洪水也會更猛全球暖化的紛紛擾擾曠日費時也干擾到我的科學研究－多少也是因為我曾抱怨白宮更改了我的聲明所以我決定回來繼續嚴謹地做科學研究把紛擾留給大家 15 年後全球暖化的證據更加明確1981 年發表的文章也大多屬實我很榮幸能兩次和總統的氣候特別小組對話但能源政策卻仍然著眼於尋找更多化石燃料那時我有一對孫子蘇菲和康納我決定以後不要讓他們這麼說「爺爺明知發生什麼事卻不講清楚。」所以我決定發表公開講座批評世界欠缺恰當的能源政策 2004 年，我到愛荷華大學演講另外在 2005 年於美國地球物理聯盟會議中演講這幾場演講導致白宮致電美國太空總署總部並且告知我若沒有美國太空總署的事先授權不得私自對媒體發表任何言論在我告知紐約時報此限制後美國太空總署被迫終止這項審查制度然而卻也影響了其他事物我引用了美國太空總署使命聲明的第一條「理解並保護我們賴以生存的行星」替我的發言辯護使命聲明第一條隨即就被刪除未再出現過 之後幾年裡正當我以物理學角度做氣候變遷研究的同時我更多次提出傳遞能源政策改變的急切我要提出以物理學為根據的重大結論不論是從地球能量平衡或是從地球的氣候歷史切入 釋出二氧化碳就像為地球蓋上一層棉被降低了地球熱輻射的散失造成暫時的能量不平衡地球接受來自太陽的能量（熱能）大於散逸的能量直到地球達到足夠的溫度便會再次釋出能量至太空所以可以驗證地球能量不平衡的關鍵數據在於地球所接受的能量有比釋出的能量大嗎？若答案為是，代表暖化正在發生而且不需更多溫室氣體就會發生了 現在我們終於可以藉由測量地球熱能的儲存量精準的算出地球能量的不平衡我們利用超過三千多個散佈世界各大洋的海洋觀測網浮標（Argo float）對世界最大的水庫－海洋－進行測量浮標回傳的資料顯示淺海區的溫度正急速上升深海區的溫度也緩緩上升而且過剩的能量即將影響到地球周邊冰層的淨融化速度甚至連數十米深度的土地也正在暖化中 現在能源不平衡的總量已達到每平方公尺 0.6 瓦乍聽之下也許不多但若把全世界加總，數字會很龐大大約是全人類能源使用量的 20 倍這相當於每年有 365 天每天引爆 40 萬顆廣島原子彈那也就是地球每天過剩的能量若是我們想穩定這種不平衡的氣候我們就必須減少二氧化碳的排放從每百萬 391 ppm降到 350 ppm那是使能量恢復平衡和阻止氣候上升的必要改變 否認氣候變遷的人主張太陽才是氣候變遷的主因但是這次能量失衡的測量是在有記錄以來太陽極深處能量的最小值時進行當時太陽的能量傳遞到地球是最小的但到目前為止，能量輸入仍大於輸出表示太陽偏移對氣候的影響遠不如因為燃燒化石燃料所產生二氧化碳所帶來的影響 現在思考一下地球的氣候歷史這幾個包括世界氣溫大氣中二氧化碳和海平面的曲線是從海洋內核和南極冰河推導出從海洋的沉積物和超過 80 萬年年復一年所累積的雪以致形成一個兩英哩厚的冰原正如你看到的氣溫、二氧化碳和海平面緊密相關嚴謹的調查顯示幾個世紀以來氣溫的改變微幅的造成二氧化碳改變否認氣候變遷的人喜歡用這個事實來混淆欺騙大眾說：「是氣溫造成二氧化碳量增加反之則不成立。」但溫度變化幅度高於二氧化碳變化幅度正如同我們所預期的情況 地球軌道數十萬年的偏移改變了地球受光照的分配量當高緯度的夏天日照長時，冰原開始融化縮小的冰原使地球外表更昏暗吸收更多日光後進而升溫升溫中的海洋會釋出二氧化碳就像一瓶熱的可口可樂一樣二氧化碳越多，暖化越快所以二氧化碳、甲烷和冰原擴大了全球氣溫的變化儘管氣候變遷被一個非常微弱的力量所啟動最終導致這些遠古氣候產生巨大變革 重要的是這些同樣擴大中的環境反撲現在就會發生根據物理學定律現在因為排放過多二氧化碳所以隨著地球逐漸暖化冰會融化逐漸加溫的海洋則會釋出更多二氧化碳和甲烷雖然我們不知道這些擴大中的環境反撲什麼時候會發生但可以確定的是它一定會發生除非我們停止暖化已經有證據顯示環境反撲正要開始藉由重力觀測衛星－GRACE精密的測量顯示出格陵蘭島與南極大陸正大量流失每年流失數百平方公里的冰原並且較 9 年前開始測量時流失的速率不斷加快甲烷也開始從永凍土被釋出 海平面上升會到什麼程度呢？最後一次測得的二氧化碳值為 390ppm也就是今天進行測量的海平面已高出至少 15 公尺（約 50 英呎）你們現在坐的地方很可能會被海淹沒大多數的預測是海平面將在世紀末上升一公尺我敢說如果我們繼續燃燒化石燃料在不久之後，甚至可能升高 5 公尺也就是 18 英呎 重點是人們已經開始了一個超出人類控制的過程冰原每個世紀持續崩解穩定的海岸線也不復在對經濟的影響更是無法想像世界各地將遭受紐奧良風災般的破壞更應受指責的是在人們持續否認氣候變遷下物種不斷地滅絕如果我們不改變使用化石燃料的習慣叢斑蝶可能是政府機構預測在本世紀末將瀕臨絕種的 25% 至 50% 物種的其中之一 全球暖化確實已深深影響著人們去年在德州、奧克拉荷馬和墨西哥發生的熱浪和乾旱前年的莫斯科還有 2003 年的歐陸都發生異常的氣候現象氣候觀測值都超出三個標準差以上50 年前這種異常現象僅影響 0.2% 至 0.3%的土地面積但近年來因為全球暖化影響面積已達 10%有 25 到 50 倍的增長幅度所以我們可以自信的說德州和莫斯科嚴重的熱浪並非自然現象而是全球暖化的產物如果我們讓全球暖化持續發生帶來的影響將包括中西部及大平原預計在幾十年後都將面臨比沙塵暴更糟糕的極端乾旱所以我們應該避免全球暖化 為何我要一再深入這個議題並且試圖與多數人溝通我曾到 10 個國家演講、曾被逮捕浪費無數假期試圖傳遞我鑽研了 30 年的議題許多後輩也參與協助我傑克是個積極上進又富熱情的男孩才兩歲半的他就自認能保護剛滿兩歲的妹妹把當前無法掌控的氣候系統留給年輕的下一代是不道德的 現在我們可以用一項簡單又公平的方法來解決氣候變遷所造成的悲劇就是逐漸提高向不可再生能源公司徵收的碳費並以電子型式平均分配給每一位合法公民政府一毛不取這樣大多數人拿到的每月分紅會比他們所付的碳費高出許多這項收費和紅利制度會刺激經濟並帶動改革創造無數職缺這些主要規則能帶領我們快速迎向一個擁有乾淨能源的未來 這是由幾位經濟學者所共同擬定的建議共和黨員環境保護協會的吉姆．帝帕索正是如此形容：「透明度和市場經濟都不會擴大政府機能把能源決定權交還給公民聽起來是個穩當的氣候計畫。」 我們的政府強迫全世界大眾每年資助4 到 5 千億美元而非提高碳費讓化石燃料付出造成社會傷害的真正代價因此鼓勵榨乾化石燃料－山頂的剷除長壁採礦、水力壓裂法瀝青沙、瀝青頁岩和北極圈深海鑽油若持續如此能保證會超越臨界點導致冰原崩解使後代更無法掌握大部分的物種將會絕種更加強烈的乾旱和水災將會嚴重影響世界的產糧區造成大規模饑荒和經濟衰退想像一下，一顆巨大的小行星正與地球同在導致相撞的軌道 這就是我們現在所面臨的狀況然而我們卻驚慌失措沒有採取扭轉情勢的行動即便我們知道拖越久難度和花費越高如果我們 2005 年就開始我們每年必須降低 3% 的排放量使地球恢復能量平衡並且穩定本世紀的氣候如果我們明年開始每年降幅就必須提升到 6%要是在等 10 年，降幅更提升到 15%難度極大且需付出龐大代價不如說是天方夜譚但我們根本還沒開始 如今你已經知道一切讓我極力想喚起警覺的資訊無疑地，我還沒完成訊息傳遞科學已經很清楚我需要你們協助傳遞當前處境的嚴重和急切性和有效的解決之道這是我們應該對晚輩做的 謝謝 （掌聲）
