Talk	en	zh-tw
james_forbes	"Compassion: what does it look like? Come with me to 915 South Bloodworth Street in Raleigh, North Carolina, where I grew up. If you come in you will see us: evening time, at table — set for ten but not always all seats filled — at the point when dinner is ready to be served. Since mom had eight kids, sometimes she said she couldn't tell who was who and where they were. Before we could eat, she would ask, ""Are all the children in?"" And if someone happened to be missing, we would have to, we say, ""Fix a plate"" for that person, put it in the oven, then we could say grace, and we could eat. Also, while we were at the table, there was a ritual in our family: when something significant had happened for any one of us — whether mom had just been elected as the president of the PTA, or whether dad had gotten an assignment at the college of our denomination, or whether someone had won the jabberwocky contest for talent — the ritual at the family was, once the announcement is made, we must take five, ten minutes to do what we call ""make over"" that person — that is, to make a fuss over the one who had been honored in some way. For when one is honored, all are honored. Also, we had to make a report on our extended ""visited"" members, that is, extended members of the family, sick and elderly, shut in. My task was, at least once a week, to visit Mother Lassiter who lived on East Street, Mother Williamson who lived on Bledsoe Avenue, and Mother Lathers who lived on Oberlin Road. Why? Because they were old and infirm, and we needed to go by to see if they needed anything. For mom said, ""To be family, is to care and share and to look out for one another. They are our family."" And, of course, sometimes there was a bonus for going. They would offer sweets or money. Mom says, ""If they ask you what it costs to either go shopping for them, you must always say, 'Nothing.' And if they insist, say, 'Whatever you mind to give me.'"" This was the nature of being at that table. In fact, she indicated that if we would do that, not only would we have the joy of receiving the gratitude from the members of the extended family, but she said, ""Even God will smile, and when God smiles, there is peace, and justice, and joy."" So, at the table at 915, I learned something about compassion. Of course, it was a minister's family, so we had to add God into it. And so, I came to think that mama eternal, mama eternal, is always wondering: Are all the children in? And if we had been faithful in caring and sharing, we had the sense that justice and peace would have a chance in the world. Now, it was not always wonderful at that table. Let me explain a point at which we did not rise to the occasion. It was Christmas, and at our family, oh, what a morning. Christmas morning, where we open up our gifts, where we have special prayers, and where we get to the old upright piano and we would sing carols. It was a very intimate moment. In fact, you could come down to the tree to get your gifts and get ready to sing, and then get ready for breakfast without even taking a bath or getting dressed, except that daddy messed it up. There was a member of his staff who did not have any place on that particular Christmas to celebrate. And daddy brought Elder Revels to the Christmas family celebration. We thought he must be out of his mind. This is our time. This is intimate time. This is when we can just be who we are, and now we have this stuffy brother with his shirt and tie on, while we are still in our PJs. Why would daddy bring Elder Revels? Any other time, but not to the Christmas celebration. And mom overheard us and said, ""Well, you know what? If you really understand the nature of this celebration, it is that this is a time where you extend the circle of love. That's what the celebration is all about. It's time to make space, to share the enjoyment of life in a beloved community."" So, we sucked up. (Laughter) But growing up at 915, compassion was not a word to be debated; it was a sensibility to how we are together. We are sisters and brothers united together. And, like Chief Seattle said, ""We did not spin the web of life. We're all strands in it. And whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves."" Now that's compassion. So, let me tell you, I kind of look at the world this way. I see pictures, and something says, ""Now, that's compassion."" A harvested field of grain, with some grain in the corners, reminding me of the Hebrew tradition that you may indeed harvest, but you must always leave some on the edges, just in case there's someone who has not had the share necessary for good nurture. Talk about a picture of compassion. I see — always, it stirs my heart — a picture of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. walking arm in arm with Andy Young and Rabbi Heschel and maybe Thich Nhat Hanh and some of the other saints assembled, walking across the bridge and going into Selma. Just a photograph. Arm in arm for struggle. Suffering together in a common hope that we can be brothers and sisters without the accidents of our birth or our ethnicity robbing us of a sense of unity of being. So, there's another picture. Here, this one. I really do like this picture. When Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated, that day, everybody in my community was upset. You heard about riots all across the land. Bobby Kennedy was scheduled to bring an inner city message in Indianapolis. This is the picture. They said, ""It's going to be too volatile for you to go."" He insisted, ""I must go."" So, sitting on a flatbed truck, the elders of the community are there, and Bobby stands up and says to the people, ""I have bad news for you. Some of you may not have heard that Dr. King has been assassinated. I know that you are angry, and I know that you would almost wish to have the opportunity to enter now into activities of revenge. But,"" he said, ""what I really want you to know is that I know how you feel. Because I had someone dear to me snatched away. I know how you feel."" And he said, ""I hope that you will have the strength to do what I did. I allowed my anger, my bitterness, my grief to simmer a while, and then I made up my mind that I was going to make a different world, and we can do that together."" That's a picture. Compassion? I think I see it. I saw it when the Dalai Lama came to the Riverside Church while I was a pastor, and he invited representatives of faith traditions from all around the world. He asked them to give a message, and they each read in their own language a central affirmation, and that was some version of the golden rule: ""As you would that others would do unto you, do also unto them."" Twelve in their ecclesiastical or cultural or tribal attire affirming one message. We are so connected that we must treat each other as if an action toward you is an action toward myself. One more picture while I'm stinking and thinking about the Riverside Church: 9/11. Last night at Chagrin Fall, a newspaperman and a television guy said, ""That evening, when a service was held at the Riverside Church, we carried it on our station in this city. It was,"" he said, ""one of the most powerful moments of life together. We were all suffering. But you invited representatives of all of the traditions to come, and you invited them. 'Find out what it is in your tradition that tells us what to do when we have been humiliated, when we have been despised and rejected.' And they all spoke out of their own traditions, a word about the healing power of solidarity, one with the other."" I developed a sense of compassion sort of as second nature, but I became a preacher. Now, as a preacher, I got a job. I got to preach the stuff, but I got to do it too. Or, as Father Divine in Harlem used to say to folks, ""Some people preach the Gospel. I have to tangibilitate the Gospel."" So, the real issue is: How do you tangibilitate compassion? How do you make it real? My faith has constantly lifted up the ideal, and challenged me when I fell beneath it. In my tradition, there is a gift that we have made to other traditions — to everybody around the world who knows the story of the ""Good Samaritan."" Many people think of it primarily in terms of charity, random acts of kindness. But for those who really study that text a little more thoroughly, you will discover that a question has been raised that leads to this parable. The question was: ""What is the greatest commandment?"" And, according to Jesus, the word comes forth, ""You must love yourself, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind and soul, and your neighbor as yourself."" And then the person asked, ""Well, what do you mean, 'neighbor?'"" And he answered it by telling the story of the man who fell among thieves, and how religious authorities went the other way, and how their supporters in the congregation went the other way; but an unsuspecting, despised person came along, saw the man in need, provided oil and wine for his wounds, put him on his own transportation, and took him to the inn and asked the innkeeper, ""Take care of him."" And he said, ""Here, this is the initial investment, but if needs continue, make sure that you provide them. And whatever else is needed, I will provide it and pay for it when I return."" This always seemed to me to be a deepening of the sense of what it means to be a Good Samaritan. A Good Samaritan is not simply one whose heart is touched in an immediate act of care and charity, but one who provides a system of sustained care — I like that, 'a system of sustained care ' — in the inn, take care. I think maybe it's one time when the Bible talks about a healthcare system and a commitment to do whatever is necessary — that all God's children would have their needs cared for, so that we could answer when mommy eternal asks, ""In regards to health, are all the children in?"" And we could say yes. Oh, what a joy it has been to be a person seeking to tangibilitate compassion. I recall that my work as a pastor has always involved caring for their spiritual needs; being concerned for housing, for healthcare, for the prisoners, for the infirm, for children — even the foster care children for whom no one can even keep a record where they started off, where they are going. To be a pastor is to care for these individual needs. But now, to be a Good Samaritan — and I always say, and to be a good American — for me, is not simply to congratulate myself for the individual acts of care. Compassion takes on a corporate dynamic. I believe that whatever we did around that table at Bloodworth Street must be done around tables and rituals of faith until we become that family, that family together that understands the nature of our unity. We are one people together. So, let me explain to you what I mean when I think about compassion, and why I think it is so important that right at this point in history. We would decide to establish this charter of compassion. The reason it's important is because this is a very special time in history. It is the time that, biblically, we would speak of as the day, or the year, of God's favor. This is a season of grace. Unusual things are beginning to happen. Please pardon me, as a black man, for celebrating that the election of Obama was an unusual sign of the fact that it is a year of favor. And yet, there is so much more that needs to be done. We need to bring health and food and education and respect for all God's citizens, all God's children, remembering mama eternal. Now, let me close my comments by telling you that whenever I feel something very deeply, it usually takes the form of verse. And so I want to close with a little song. I close with this song — it's a children's song — because we are all children at the table of mama eternal. And if mama eternal has taught us correctly, this song will make sense, not only to those of us who are a part of this gathering, but to all who sign the charter for compassion. And this is why we do it. The song says, ♫ ""I made heaven so happy today, ♫ ♫ Receiving God's love and giving it away ♫ ♫ When I looked up, heaven smiled at me ♫ ♫ Now, I'm so happy. Can't you see? ♫ ♫ I'm happy. Look at me. I'm happy. Can't you see? ♫ ♫ Sharing makes me happy, makes heaven happy too ♫ ♫ I'm happy. Look at me. I'm happy. Can't you see? ♫ ♫ Let me share my happy loving smile with you. ♫ That's compassion. (Applause)"	"同情心。同情心看起來是什麼樣的？請跟我一起來到北卡羅萊納州南布拉德沃斯大街915号，我成長的地方。如果你進來，你會在晚上看到我們，十個人圍成一桌，但並不是每個位子上都有人。晚餐準備好的時候，因為媽媽有八個孩子，有時她說她分不清誰是誰，都在哪兒。但我們吃飯之前，她會問:「所有的孩子們都在嗎？」如果有人偶爾不在，我們就會說，留一盤飯菜給他，放到烤箱裡。接著我們感恩禱告，然後開始吃飯。 所以，當大家坐在桌子前面的時候，這是我們家的一個儀式，當任何人身上發生意義重大的事情時，比如當媽媽被選舉為家長教師會（PTA）的主席的時候，或者當爸爸得到一份我們大學的教會的工作時。或者有誰贏得口才比賽的時候，我們家庭的傳統儀式就是，在宣佈完之後，我們必須花五到十分鐘時間來跟那個人總結一下，就是，認認真真的表揚一下那個獲得榮譽的人，就是一個人光榮，所有人都光榮。 同樣，我們還必須向我們的家族的客人報告一下。那就是，家庭的親屬，那些無法外出的病人和年長的人。我的任務是，至少一週一次去拜訪東街的拉斯特大媽，以及布萊索大道的威廉森大媽，還有歐柏林路的拉舒大媽。為什麼？因為她們年邁體弱。所以我們需要過去看看她們是不是需要任何東西。媽媽說過：「成為一個家庭，就是要關心和分享，並且去照顧別人。她們也是我們家庭的成員。」 當然，偶爾也會有獎勵。她們會準備一些糖果和零花錢。媽媽說:「如果她們問你買東西花了多少錢，你必須說，「不要錢。」如果她們堅持你就說:「不管怎樣你隨便給一點。」這是我們飯桌上的人的天性。事實上，她表現出了，如果我們那樣去做，不只是我們會有收到親屬的感激的喜悅，她還說:「上帝也會微笑，且當上帝微笑的時候，世間就充滿了和平，公正和喜悅。」 所以，在915的飯桌上，我學到了關於同情心很多東西。當然，這是一個牧師的家庭，所以我們必須把上帝也算進去。因此，我一直在想永恆的媽媽一直在問：「所有的孩子都在嗎？」並且，如果我們堅持關心和分享，我們就堅信這個世界上公正和和平終會實現。 但是，那個飯桌並不總是美好的。我來解釋一下我們為什麼不能應付自如。那是聖誕節，在我們家的一個早晨，聖誕節的早晨，我們打開禮物，在那兒唸著特別的祈禱文，並且在舊鋼琴前唱著聖詩。那是一個非常親密的時刻。事實上，你可以直接從房間下來聖誕樹旁拿禮物，接著準備唱聖詩，然後甚至不用洗澡或者打扮好就可以吃早餐，但爸爸卻把一切搞砸了。 因為他的一名同事沒有地方去慶祝那一年的聖誕節。因此爸爸帶著他同事勒韋長老來參加家庭慶祝。我們認為他一定是瘋了。這是屬於我們的時刻。這是個親密的時刻。這是我們可以做我們真正的自己，但是現在我們有了這個讓人鬱悶的哥兒，在我們仍然穿著睡衣的時候他卻穿著西裝和領帶。為什麼爸爸要帶勒韋長老過來？任何時候都行，就是不要在聖誕節。 媽媽無意中聽到我們的話，便說:「你們知道嗎？如果你真的理解慶祝的真意，慶祝是你真正延伸你的愛的時刻。這才是慶祝的真意。該挪出個位子，與他在一個相親相愛的家庭裡分享生命的喜悅。」於是，我們都忍過去了。（笑聲） 但在915長大，同情心並不是個用來辯論的詞彙，它是一種我們如何患難於共的情感。我們兄弟姐妹們心心相連。就像是西雅圖酋長所說: 「我們並不是在織生命的這張大網。我們只是在裡面的絲縷。所以不管我們對這張網做什麼，都是對自己做的。」這就是同情心。 所以，我告訴你，我是這麼來看這個世界的。我看有些圖片，它們像是在說:「看，那便是同情心。」一塊收割完的穀田，一些穀物在角落裡堆著提醒著我猶太人的傳統你也許確實收割了，但你必須留下點東西在一旁留給那些沒有得到足夠的來維持養育的人。這才是談及同情心的一張圖。 我看到一直震撼我心的馬丁路德.金博士的一張照片。跟安迪•楊(Andy Young)和猶太教教士克士奧 Heschel (Rabbi Heschel）手挽手往前走也許是一行禪師（Thich Nhat Hanh）和其它的聖徒，向前走過橋然後去塞爾瑪（Selma）。只是一張照片。手挽手的奮鬥。即使沒有血緣和宗教關係，為了一個共同的希望患難與共能成為兄弟姐妹。改變了我們的統一感。 然後，還有另外一張照片。我真的很喜歡這張照片。當馬丁路德.金博士被暗殺後，那天，我們社區裡所有人都很傷心。你會聽到國家到處都有暴亂。鮑勃甘迺迪本來計畫從印地安那波里斯帶來一個內城消息。這就是那張圖。他們說:「那裡將會動盪不定，你不能去。""他堅持:「我必須去。」 所以，坐在卡車上，社區裡的長老們，然後鮑勃站起來告訴人們:「我有一個壞消息告訴你們。有些人也許還沒聽說當馬丁路德•金博士被暗殺了，我理解你們很生氣，並且我理解你們希望現在就有機會去參與報仇的運動，但是他說:「我希望你們知道，我理解你們的感覺。因為我的親人被死神帶走了。所以我理解你們的感受。」然後他說:「我希望你們有力量去做我所做的，我允許我的憤怒、痛苦和悲傷，慢慢在內心燃燒一陣子，然後我便立志要創造一個嶄新的世界，我們可以一起達成。」在這張圖片。 同情心？我覺得我看到它了。 我看到它是在我是牧師的時候達賴喇嘛到河濱教堂時他邀請了來自全球的信仰代表。他請他們傳遞一個信息，然後他們每個人都用自己的語言去理解，那便是另外版本的黃金法則。「你應對待別人,像對待自己一樣。」(推己及人)12個身著喇嘛服裝或者民族服裝的人重申著同一個信息。我們連接如此緊密，我們必須像所有的行為都對待自己一樣去對待大家。 還有一個圖片是我正在思考關於河濱教堂的時候。9/11。 昨晚正在懊惱的時刻，一個報攤小販和一個電視男說，那天晚上，當河濱教堂在進行禮拜的時候，我們便在城市裡的車站內進行。「那時刻” 他說:「是歷史上生命連接最為緊密的時候。」我們都在經受苦難，但你邀請所有宗教傳統的代表來參加，你邀請他們找出在你的傳統思想中當我們被羞辱的時候要怎麼做當我們被鄙視和拒絕的時候我們要做什麼。然後,一個接一個, 他們都說出他們自己的傳統中於治療團結一致的力量。 好，現在我發現同情心是一種第二天性，但我成為了一個講道士。現在，作為一個講道士，我的工作就是佈道和說教，但我亦應該以身作則。或者，就像是哈林區的帝凡神父告訴人們的一樣，「一些人說教福音書。我必須說出福音書的真實性。」所以，真正的問題是： 你怎麼說同情心的真實性？你怎麼讓它變成現實？ 我的信仰不斷將理想昇華，並且一旦我落後就不斷挑戰我。在我的傳統裡，我們為其它的傳統做了個禮物 ，世界上每一個人都知道撒瑪利亞人的故事。許多人認為首當其衝的應該是慈善，隨機的善行。但對於這些真正研究或者更理解的人來說，你會發現一個問題慢慢浮現上來，導致了這個寓意。 這個問題是：“什麼才是最偉大的戒律？”根據耶穌，這個詞彙出來了，「你必須愛自己，你必須像愛你自己一樣全心全意愛你的主你的上帝，以及你的鄰居。」 然後人們問道，「那麼，你是指什麼，鄰居？」 然後他講了一個男人落到賊窩的故事來回答這個問題，有些宗教掌權者避開他繞去另一條路，又有些教會的支持者避開他繞去另一條路，但沒有料到，一位被歧視的人走近他，看到那有需要幫助的人，提供了油和酒來治療他的傷口，把他安置在自己的交通工具上，然後送他到旅館並且告訴侍應生:「好好照顧他。」然後說:「這裡有一筆錢作首期，如果還有需要，你要確保他受到照料。不管他還需要什麼，等我回來我會把錢給你。」 這對於我來說加深了成為一個善人的意義。一個善人不是僅僅簡單的容易受到感動，不僅是一個當下的關心和善行，而是能夠提供持續性的關心的人 —我喜歡那樣—在旅館裡持續的關心和照顧。我想也許有一次當聖經論及醫療系統以及承諾要做任何必須的事情，也就是所有上帝的孩子們的需求都被照顧到，因此當永恆的媽媽問及:「關於健康，所有的孩子都在嗎？」 然後我們可以回答是的。 一個去證明同情心的真實性的人是多麼快樂啊。我回想我作為一個牧師的時候總是牽涉到關注他們的精神所需，關注屋宇、醫療、犯人、年邁體弱的老人、兒童，甚至那些沒人知道他們從哪裡來、要往哪兒去、被領養的小孩們。作為一個牧師就是要關心這些個人之所需。 但是現在，作為一個大善人，我總是說並且做為一個善良的美國人，對於我來說，不是簡單的慶幸自己對於個人的關心行為，同情心需要全體的動力。我堅信我們在布拉德大街圍繞著飯桌所做的一切，就是必須在飯桌上以及信仰儀式前完成直到我們變成了一個大家庭，在一起的大家庭，理解我們統一的自然天性。我們合而為一。 所以，讓我來給你解釋我對同情心的認識，並且為什麼我認為同情心在歷史上的這一時刻那麼重要我們會決定建立起同情心的新篇章。它如此重要是因為這是歷史的一個非常特殊的時刻。這個時刻是聖經裡我們所說的上帝恩惠的那一天，或那一年。這是一個感恩的季節。不尋常的東西已經開始發生。請允許我再說一遍，作為一個黑人，為了慶祝奧巴馬的當選就是一個不尋常的跡象今年是上帝恩惠的一年，而且，還有這麼多的東西需要被完成。我們需要帶來健康、食物和教育以及對上帝子民的尊重，所有上帝的孩子們，記住永恆的媽媽。 現在，讓我再告訴一件事來結束我的講話，無論何時我感觸很深的時候，它通常帶著詩歌的形式。所以我想以一首歌來結尾。以這首兒歌來結尾。我們在永恆的媽媽的餐桌上的時候，我們都是孩子。如果永恆的媽媽教導我們的是正確的話，這首歌就有道理，而且不只是對在這聚會中的我們而言，而是對每個簽署仁愛憲章的人都有道理。這就是我們為什麼去做。 這首歌說:「 ♫今天我使天堂如此開心,♫♫我收到了上帝的愛並傳遞出去♫♫當我往上看，天堂正朝我微笑♫♫現在我如此開心。你看不到嗎？♫♫我很開心。看看我。我很開心。你看不到嗎？♫♫分享使我開心，也讓天堂開心♫♫我很開心。看著我。我很開心。你看不到嗎？♫♫讓我和你分享這開心又充滿愛的微笑♫」 這就是同情之心。"
