Talk	en	zh-tw
jamila_raqib_the_secret_to_effective_nonviolent_resistance	"War has been a part of my life since I can remember. I was born in Afghanistan, just six months after the Soviets invaded, and even though I was too young to understand what was happening, I had a deep sense of the suffering and the fear around me. Those early experiences had a major impact on how I now think about war and conflict. I learned that when people have a fundamental issue at stake, for most of them, giving in is not an option. For these types conflicts — when people's rights are violated, when their countries are occupied, when they're oppressed and humiliated — they need a powerful way to resist and to fight back. Which means that no matter how destructive and terrible violence is, if people see it as their only choice, they will use it. Most of us are concerned with the level of violence in the world. But we're not going to end war by telling people that violence is morally wrong. Instead, we must offer them a tool that's at least as powerful and as effective as violence. This is the work I do. For the past 13 years, I've been teaching people in some of the most difficult situations around the world how they can use nonviolent struggle to conduct conflict. Most people associate this type of action with Gandhi and Martin Luther King. But people have been using nonviolent action for thousands of years. In fact, most of the rights that we have today in this country — as women, as minorities, as workers, as people of different sexual orientations and citizens concerned with the environment — these rights weren't handed to us. They were won by people who fought for them and who sacrificed for them. But because we haven't learned from this history, nonviolent struggle as a technique is widely misunderstood. I met recently with a group of Ethiopian activists, and they told me something that I hear a lot. They said they'd already tried nonviolent action, and it hadn't worked. Years ago they held a protest. The government arrested everyone, and that was the end of that. The idea that nonviolent struggle is equivalent to street protests is a real problem. Because although protests can be a great way to show that people want change, on their own, they don't actually create change — at least change that is fundamental. (Laughter) Powerful opponents are not going to give people what they want just because they asked nicely ... or even not so nicely. (Laughter) Nonviolent struggle works by destroying an opponent, not physically, but by identifying the institutions that an opponent needs to survive, and then denying them those sources of power. Nonviolent activists can neutralize the military by causing soldiers to defect. They can disrupt the economy through strikes and boycotts. And they can challenge government propaganda by creating alternative media. There are a variety of methods that can be used to do this. My colleague and mentor, Gene Sharp, has identified 198 methods of nonviolent action. And protest is only one. Let me give you a recent example. Until a few months ago, Guatemala was ruled by corrupt former military officials with ties to organized crime. People were generally aware of this, but most of them felt powerless to do anything about it — until one group of citizens, just 12 regular people, put out a call on Facebook to their friends to meet in the central plaza, holding signs with a message: ""Renuncia YA"" — resign already. To their surprise, 30,000 people showed up. They stayed there for months as protests spread throughout the country. At one point, the organizers delivered hundreds of eggs to various government buildings with a message: ""If you don't have the huevos"" — the balls — ""to stop corrupt candidates from running for office, you can borrow ours."" (Laughter) (Applause) President Molina responded by vowing that he would never step down. And the activists realized that they couldn't just keep protesting and ask the president to resign. They needed to leave him no choice. So they organized a general strike, in which people throughout the country refused to work. In Guatemala City alone, over 400 businesses and schools shut their doors. Meanwhile, farmers throughout the country blocked major roads. Within five days, the president, along with dozens of other government officials, resigned already. (Applause) I've been greatly inspired by the creativity and bravery of people using nonviolent action in nearly every country in the world. For example, recently a group of activists in Uganda released a crate of pigs in the streets. You can see here that the police are confused about what to do with them. (Laughter) The pigs were painted the color of the ruling party. One pig was even wearing a hat, a hat that people recognized. (Laughter) Activists around the world are getting better at grabbing headlines, but these isolated actions do very little if they're not part of a larger strategy. A general wouldn't march his troops into battle unless he had a plan to win the war. Yet this is how most of the world's nonviolent movements operate. Nonviolent struggle is just as complex as military warfare, if not more. Its participants must be well-trained and have clear objectives, and its leaders must have a strategy of how to achieve those objectives. The technique of war has been developed over thousands of years with massive resources and some of our best minds dedicated to understanding and improving how it works. Meanwhile, nonviolent struggle is rarely systematically studied, and even though the number is growing, there are still only a few dozen people in the world who are teaching it. This is dangerous, because we now know that our old approaches of dealing with conflict are not adequate for the new challenges that we're facing. The US government recently admitted that it's in a stalemate in its war against ISIS. But what most people don't know is that people have stood up to ISIS using nonviolent action. When ISIS captured Mosul in June 2014, they announced that they were putting in place a new public school curriculum, based on their own extremist ideology. But on the first day of school, not a single child showed up. Parents simply refused to send them. They told journalists they would rather homeschool their children than to have them brainwashed. This is an example of just one act of defiance in just one city. But what if it was coordinated with the dozens of other acts of nonviolent resistance that have taken place against ISIS? What if the parents' boycott was part of a larger strategy to identify and cut off the resources that ISIS needs to function; the skilled labor needed to produce food; the engineers needed to extract and refine oil; the media infrastructure and communications networks and transportation systems, and the local businesses that ISIS relies on? It may be difficult to imagine defeating ISIS with action that is nonviolent. But it's time we challenge the way we think about conflict and the choices we have in facing it. Here's an idea worth spreading: let's learn more about where nonviolent action has worked and how we can make it more powerful, just like we do with other systems and technologies that are constantly being refined to better meet human needs. It may be that we can improve nonviolent action to a point where it is increasingly used in place of war. Violence as a tool of conflict could then be abandoned in the same way that bows and arrows were, because we have replaced them with weapons that are more effective. With human innovation, we can make nonviolent struggle more powerful than the newest and latest technologies of war. The greatest hope for humanity lies not in condemning violence but in making violence obsolete. Thank you. (Applause)"	自我有記憶以來戰爭就是我生活的一部分就在蘇維埃入侵六個月之後我出生於阿富汗儘管當時我還年幼並不知道發生了什麼但我深深地感覺到災難和恐懼在我周邊 這些早期的經歷 讓我現在對戰爭和衝突的看法產生了重要的影響我了解到人們遭遇到危險時對他們大部分人而言屈服不是一個選擇對於以下幾種類型的衝突當人們的權利受到侵害時當他們的國家被佔領時當他們受到壓迫和受到羞辱時他們需要一個強有力的方式去抵制和反抗這就意味著無論暴力有多麼兇殘可怕如果人們認為暴力是他們唯一的選擇他們就會使用暴力我們絕大部分人都對存在於世界上的暴力感到擔心但告訴人們戰爭是錯誤的並不能結束戰爭取而代之的 我們必須給他們一個工具至少是一個與暴力有相同效力的工具 這是我的工作在過去的十三年裡我在一些有著最困難處境的地區教導人們 怎樣可以用非暴力手段來結束分歧很多人使用這種手段 比如甘地和馬丁路德金人們已經使用非暴力手段近千年事實上 今天在這個國家裡大部分的權利作為女性作為少數族群作為工人作為性少數人群還有擔心環境的人們這些權利沒有直接給到我們這些是經過人們奮鬥而來的還有為此犧牲的人們但是因為我們還沒有從這歷史當中學到教訓非暴力鬥爭被廣泛的誤解 我最近見了一個埃塞俄比亞積極團體然後他們跟我說了些我常聽到的事情他們說他們已經嘗試過非暴力手段但它沒有效果幾年前 他們發起了抗議活動政府把他們全部都逮捕了去來這就是故事的結果非暴力鬥爭的想法是跟街頭抗議一樣的這是一個問題因為抗議會是一個很好的方式來表達人們想要變革的意願靠人們自己 他們並不能改變任何事情至少改變一些基礎的東西 （笑聲） 太過強勢的對手不會給抗議者帶來他們所想要的東西僅僅是因為他們抗議得太過禮貌或者太過火 （笑聲） 非暴力鬥爭通過非武力方式打擊對手來取勝但是要給他們的對手留一些顏面然後否定他們的權利非暴力積極人士可以通過使士兵叛變來擊潰軍隊他們可以通過罷工和抵制來搗亂經濟他們還可以通過其他媒體來挑戰政府的宣傳 有很多方法可以達成這樣的效果我的同事和導師 基恩 夏普已經發現了198種非暴力手段然而抗議是唯一一個讓我來給你們一個最近的例子 直到幾個月以前瓜地馬拉是被一個腐敗的前軍官統治與有關聯的有組織犯罪人們普遍的知曉此事但是大部分人們都不敢有任何舉措直到一個由12個普通人組成的團體在臉書上告訴他們的朋友在中心廣場舉牌牌上寫著立刻辭職讓他們驚喜的是30000人出現在廣場他們在那裡待了幾個月 抗議也擴散到了全國有一天組織者給政府部門送了幾百個雞蛋帶著一條訊息如果你沒有雞蛋來阻止那些腐敗份子來糟蹋政府部門你可以借我們的 （笑聲） （掌聲） 莫里納總統回應發誓說他絕不退讓然後抗議者意識到他們不能僅僅停留在抗議上然後讓總統下台他們得讓總統別無他選所以他們阻止了大範圍的罷工整個國家的人們拒絕工作僅在危地馬拉的城市超過400所公司和學校關門了同時全國的農民阻斷了公路罷工持續了五天總統和其他數十個政府官員下台了 （掌聲） 我已經極大的被使用非暴力手段的抗議者和其他勇敢的人們所鼓舞基本上這放生在世界上所有的國家舉個例子最近一組在烏干達的行動家在街上放了一箱子的豬你可以看到警察對於那些豬顯得不知所措 （笑聲） 豬被劃上了執政黨的顏色有一頭豬甚至戴上了一頂帽子一頂所有人都可以認出的帽子 （笑聲） 世界上的行動家們變得越來越能佔據頭條但是這些孤立的活動能做的卻很少如果他們不能有更深遠的戰略一個將軍如果沒考慮過怎麼贏，他不會帶著他的士兵進入戰場。事實上這是世界上大部分的非暴力運動的工作方式非暴力鬥爭就跟打仗一樣複雜如果沒有比打仗更多的話參與者必須是受過良好培訓並且條例清晰的人領導人必須有一個戰略來達到這些目標 戰爭的戰略已經經過幾千年的發展伴隨著大量的資源還有最聰明的人來致力於學習以及它是怎樣工作的同時 非暴力鬥爭是基本上沒有系統性地研究過的雖然現在使用的人越來越多但是世界上也只有十幾人真正地在教授它這是很危險的因為我們知道以前用來解決爭端的方法並不能應對這些新的挑戰 美國政府最近承認現在對於打擊伊斯蘭國處在一個膠著的狀態但是大部分人不知道的是有些人在用非暴力手段與伊斯蘭國抗爭當伊斯蘭國在2014年佔領摩蘇里時他們宣布要在公立學校裡實施新標準建立在他們自己的極端主義形態上但是在開學的第一天沒有一個孩子出現家長不讓他們的孩子去上學家長們告訴記者他們寧願在家裡教他們的孩子也不希望他們被洗腦 這是一個抗爭的例子僅僅在摩蘇里這一座城市裡但 如果他們妥協了與其他數十個抵抗伊斯蘭國的非暴力抵抗行為如果家長的抵制是大戰略的一部分用來切斷伊斯蘭國的資源伊斯蘭國指望有經驗的國人需要來製造食物工程師們需要提煉過的油媒體基礎設施還有通訊網絡還有運輸系統還有當地的公司也許很難想像通過非暴力手段來擊潰伊斯蘭國但是這是挑戰我們如何面對分歧的時機我們選擇了去面對 這裡是一個值得傳播的想法讓我們學習更多非暴力手段成功的事蹟還有我們怎樣讓它變得更加有效就像我們對待其它系統和技術的時候他們總是可以隨著人類需求來更新換代我們也可以讓非暴力行動得意昇華達到替代戰爭的效果用暴力解決紛爭的手段將被拋棄就像是弓箭一樣但是我們用更加有效的武器代替了它們伴隨著人類的革新 我們可以讓非暴力手段變得比最新的戰爭技術更加有效人性上最期望的不是對暴力的譴責而是讓暴力永遠停留在過去 （謝謝） （掌聲）
