Talk	en	zh-tw
jamie_oliver	"Sadly, in the next 18 minutes when I do our chat, four Americans that are alive will be dead through the food that they eat. My name's Jamie Oliver. I'm 34 years old. I'm from Essex in England and for the last seven years I've worked fairly tirelessly to save lives in my own way. I'm not a doctor; I'm a chef, I don't have expensive equipment or medicine. I use information, education. I profoundly believe that the power of food has a primal place in our homes that binds us to the best bits of life. We have an awful, awful reality right now. America, you're at the top of your game. This is one of the most unhealthy countries in the world. Can I please just see a raise of hands for how many of you have children in this room today? Put your hands up. You can continue to put your hands up, aunties and uncles as well. Most of you. OK. We, the adults of the last four generations, have blessed our children with the destiny of a shorter lifespan than their own parents. Your child will live a life ten years younger than you because of the landscape of food that we've built around them. Two-thirds of this room, today, in America, are statistically overweight or obese. You lot, you're all right, but we'll get you eventually, don't worry. (Laughter) The statistics of bad health are clear, very clear. We spend our lives being paranoid about death, murder, homicide, you name it; it's on the front page of every paper, CNN. Look at homicide at the bottom, for God's sake. Right? (Laughter) (Applause) Every single one of those in the red is a diet-related disease. Any doctor, any specialist will tell you that. Fact: diet-related disease is the biggest killer in the United States, right now, here today. This is a global problem. It's a catastrophe. It's sweeping the world. England is right behind you, as usual. (Laughter) I know they were close, but not that close. We need a revolution. Mexico, Australia, Germany, India, China, all have massive problems of obesity and bad health. Think about smoking. It costs way less than obesity now. Obesity costs you Americans 10 percent of your health-care bills, 150 billion dollars a year. In 10 years, it's set to double: 300 billion dollars a year. Let's be honest, guys, you haven't got that cash. (Laughter) I came here to start a food revolution that I so profoundly believe in. We need it. The time is now. We're in a tipping-point moment. I've been doing this for seven years. I've been trying in America for seven years. Now is the time when it's ripe — ripe for the picking. I went to the eye of the storm. I went to West Virginia, the most unhealthy state in America. Or it was last year. We've got a new one this year, but we'll work on that next season. (Laughter) Huntington, West Virginia. Beautiful town. I wanted to put heart and soul and people, your public, around the statistics that we've become so used to. I want to introduce you to some of the people that I care about: your public, your children. I want to show a picture of my friend Brittany. She's 16 years old. She's got six years to live because of the food that she's eaten. She's the third generation of Americans that hasn't grown up within a food environment where they've been taught to cook at home or in school, or her mom, or her mom's mom. She has six years to live. She's eating her liver to death. Stacy, the Edwards family. This is a normal family, guys. Stacy does her best, but she's third-generation as well; she was never taught to cook at home or at school. The family's obese. Justin here, 12 years old, he's 350 pounds. He gets bullied, for God's sake. The daughter there, Katie, she's four years old. She's obese before she even gets to primary school. Marissa, she's all right, she's one of your lot. But you know what? Her father, who was obese, died in her arms, And then the second most important man in her life, her uncle, died of obesity, and now her step-dad is obese. You see, the thing is, obesity and diet-related disease doesn't just hurt the people that have it; it's all of their friends, families, brothers, sisters. Pastor Steve: an inspirational man, one of my early allies in Huntington, West Virginia. He's at the sharp knife-edge of this problem. He has to bury the people, OK? And he's fed up with it. He's fed up with burying his friends, his family, his community. Come winter, three times as many people die. He's sick of it. This is preventable disease. Waste of life. By the way, this is what they get buried in. We're not geared up to do this. Can't even get them out the door, and I'm being serious. Can't even get them there. Forklift. OK, I see it as a triangle, OK? This is our landscape of food. I need you to understand it. You've probably heard all this before. Over the last 30 years, what's happened that's ripped the heart out of this country? Let's be frank and honest. Well, modern-day life. Let's start with the Main Street. Fast food has taken over the whole country; we know that. The big brands are some of the most important powers, powerful powers, in this country. (Sighs) Supermarkets as well. Big companies. Big companies. Thirty years ago, most of the food was largely local and largely fresh. Now it's largely processed and full of all sorts of additives, extra ingredients, and you know the rest of the story. Portion size is obviously a massive, massive problem. Labeling is a massive problem. The labeling in this country is a disgrace. The industry wants to self-police themselves. What, in this kind of climate? They don't deserve it. How can you say something is low-fat when it's full of so much sugar? Home. The biggest problem with the home is that used to be the heart of passing on food culture, what made our society. That is not happening anymore. And you know, as we go to work and as life changes, and as life always evolves, we kind of have to look at it holistically — step back for a moment, and re-address the balance. It hasn't happened for 30 years, OK? I want to show you a situation that is very normal right now; the Edwards family. (Video) Jamie Oliver: Let's have a talk. This stuff goes through you and your family's body every week. And I need you to know that this is going to kill your children early. How are you feeling? Stacy: Just feeling really sad and depressed right now. But, you know, I want my kids to succeed in life and this isn't going to get them there. But I'm killing them. JO: Yes you are. You are. But we can stop that. Normal. Let's get on schools, something that I'm fairly much a specialist in. OK, school. What is school? Who invented it? What's the purpose of school? School was always invented to arm us with the tools to make us creative, do wonderful things, make us earn a living, etc., etc. You know, it's been kind of in this sort of tight box for a long, long time, OK? But we haven't really evolved it to deal with the health catastrophes of America, OK? School food is something that most kids — 31 million a day, actually — have twice a day, more than often, breakfast and lunch, 180 days of the year. So you could say that school food is quite important, really, judging the circumstances. (Laughter) Before I crack into my rant, which I'm sure you're waiting for — (Laughter) I need to say one thing, and it's so important in, hopefully, the magic that happens and unfolds in the next three months. The lunch ladies, the lunch cooks of America — I offer myself as their ambassador. I'm not slagging them off. They're doing the best they can do. They're doing their best. But they're doing what they're told, and what they're being told to do is wrong. The system is highly run by accountants; there's not enough, or any, food-knowledgeable people in the business. There's a problem: If you're not a food expert, and you've got tight budgets and it's getting tighter, then you can't be creative, you can't duck and dive and write different things around things. If you're an accountant, and a box-ticker, the only thing you can do in these circumstances is buy cheaper shit. Now, the reality is, the food that your kids get every day is fast food, it's highly processed, there's not enough fresh food in there at all. You know, the amount of additives, E numbers, ingredients you wouldn't believe — there's not enough veggies at all. French fries are considered a vegetable. Pizza for breakfast. They don't even get crockery. Knives and forks? No, they're too dangerous. They have scissors in the classroom, but knives and forks? No. And the way I look at it is: If you don't have knives and forks in your school, you're purely endorsing, from a state level, fast food, because it's handheld. And yes, by the way, it is fast food: It's sloppy Joes, it's burgers, it's wieners, it's pizzas, it's all of that stuff. (Sighs) Ten percent of what we spend on health care, as I said earlier, is on obesity, and it's going to double. We're not teaching our kids. There's no statutory right to teach kids about food, elementary or secondary school, OK? We don't teach kids about food, right? And this is a little clip from an elementary school, which is very common in England. (Video) Who knows what this is? Child: Potatoes. Jamie Oliver: Potato? So, you think these are potatoes? Do you know what that is? Do you know what that is? Child: Broccoli? JO: What about this? Our good old friend. Child: Celery. JO: No. What do you think this is? Child: Onion. JO: Onion? No. JO: Immediately you get a really clear sense of ""Do the kids know anything about where food comes from?"" Who knows what that is? Child: Uh, pear? JO: What do you think this is? Child: I don't know. JO: If the kids don't know what stuff is, then they will never eat it. (Laughter) JO: Normal. England and America, England and America. Guess what fixed that. Two one-hour sessions. We've got to start teaching our kids about food in schools, period. (Applause) I want to tell you about something that kind of epitomizes the trouble that we're in, guys, OK? I want to talk about something so basic as milk. Every kid has the right to milk at school. Your kids will be having milk at school, breakfast and lunch, right? They'll be having two bottles, OK? And most kids do. But milk ain't good enough anymore. Don't get me wrong, I support milk — but someone at the milk board probably paid a lot of money for some geezer to work out that if you put loads of flavorings, colorings and sugar in milk, more kids will drink it. Yeah. Obviously now that's going to catch on the apple board is going to work out that if they make toffee apples they'll eat more as well. Do you know what I mean? For me, there isn't any need to flavor the milk. Okay? There's sugar in everything. I know the ins and outs of those ingredients. It's in everything. Even the milk hasn't escaped the kind of modern-day problems. There's our milk. There's our carton. In that is nearly as much sugar as one of your favorite cans of fizzy pop, and they are having two a day. So, let me just show you. We've got one kid, here — having, you know, eight tablespoons of sugar a day. You know, there's your week. There's your month. And I've taken the liberty of putting in just the five years of elementary school sugar, just from milk. Now, I don't know about you guys, but judging the circumstances, right, any judge in the whole world, would look at the statistics and the evidence, and they would find any government of old guilty of child abuse. That's my belief. (Applause) (Applause ends) Now, if I came up here, and I wish I could come up here today and hang a cure for AIDS or cancer, you'd be fighting and scrambling to get to me. This, all this bad news, is preventable. That's the good news. It's very, very preventable. So, let's just think about, we got a problem here, we need to reboot. Okay so, in my world, what do we need to do? Here is the thing, right, it cannot just come from one source. To reboot and make real tangible change, real change, so that I could look you in the white of the eyes and say, ""In 10 years' time, the history of your children's lives, happiness — and let's not forget, you're clever if you eat well, you know you're going to live longer — all of that stuff, it will look different. OK?"" So, supermarkets. Where else do you shop so religiously? Week in, week out. How much money do you spend, in your life, in a supermarket? Love them. They just sell us what we want. All right. They owe us to put a food ambassador in every major supermarket. They need to help us shop. They need to show us how to cook quick, tasty, seasonal meals for people that are busy. This is not expensive. It is done in some, and it needs to be done across the board in America soon, and quick. The big brands, you know, the food brands, need to put food education at the heart of their businesses. I know, easier said than done. It's the future. It's the only way. Fast food. With the fast-food industry you know, it's very competitive. I've had loads of secret papers and dealings with fast food restaurants. I know how they do it. I mean, basically they've weaned us on to these hits of sugar, salt and fat, and x, y, and z, and everyone loves them, right? So, these guys are going to be part of the solution. But we need to get the government to work with all of the fast food purveyors and the restaurant industry, and over a five, six, seven year period wean of us off the extreme amounts of fat, sugar and all the other non-food ingredients. Now, also, back to the sort of big brands: labeling, I said earlier, is an absolute farce and has got to be sorted. OK, school. Obviously, in schools, we owe it to them to make sure those 180 days of the year, from that little precious age of four, until 18, 20, 24, whatever, they need to be cooked proper, fresh food from local growers on site, OK? There needs to be a new standard of fresh, proper food for your children, yeah? (Applause) Under the circumstances, it's profoundly important that every single American child leaves school knowing how to cook 10 recipes that will save their life. Life skills. (Applause) That means that they can be students, young parents, and be able to sort of duck and dive around the basics of cooking, no matter what recession hits them next time. If you can cook, recession money doesn't matter. If you can cook, time doesn't matter. The workplace, we haven't really talked about it. You know, it's now time for corporate responsibility to really look at what they feed or make available to their staff. The staff are the moms and dads of America's children. Marissa, her father died in her hand, I think she'd be quite happy if corporate America could start feeding their staff properly. Definitely they shouldn't be left out. Let's go back to the home. Now, look, if we do all this stuff, and we can, it's so achievable. You can care and be commercial. Absolutely. But the home needs to start passing on cooking again, for sure. For sure, pass it on as a philosophy. And for me, it's quite romantic, but it's about if one person teaches three people how to cook something, and they teach three of their mates, that only has to repeat itself 25 times, and that's the whole population of America. Romantic, yes, but most importantly, it's about trying to get people to realize that every one of your individual efforts makes a difference. We've got to put back what's been lost. Huntington's Kitchen. Huntington, where I made this program, we've got this prime-time program that hopefully will inspire people to really get on this change. I truly believe that change will happen. Huntington's Kitchen. I work with a community. I worked in the schools. I found local sustainable funding to get every single school in the area from the junk, onto the fresh food: six-and-a-half grand per school. (Applause) That's all it takes, six-and-a-half grand per school. The Kitchen is 25 grand a month. Okay? This can do 5,000 people a year, which is 10 percent of their population, and it's people on people. You know, it's local cooks teaching local people. It's free cooking lessons, guys, in the Main Street. This is real, tangible change, real, tangible change. Around America, if we just look back now, there is plenty of wonderful things going on. There is plenty of beautiful things going on. There are angels around America doing great things in schools — farm-to-school set-ups, garden set-ups, education — there are amazing people doing this already. The problem is they all want to roll out what they're doing to the next school, but there's no cash. We need to recognize the experts and the angels quickly, identify them, and allow them to easily find the resource to keep rolling out what they're already doing, and doing well. Businesses of America need to support Mrs. Obama to do the things that she wants to do. (Applause) And look, I know it's weird having an English person standing here before you talking about all this. All I can say is: I care. I'm a father, and I love this country. And I believe truly, actually, that if change can be made in this country, beautiful things will happen around the world. If America does it, other people will follow. It's incredibly important. (Audience) Yeah! (Applause) When I was in Huntington, trying to get a few things to work when they weren't, I thought ""If I had a magic wand, what would I do?"" And I thought, ""You know what? I'd just love to be put in front of some of the most amazing movers and shakers in America."" And a month later, TED phoned me up and gave me this award. I'm here. So, my wish. Dyslexic, so I'm a bit slow. My wish is for you to help a strong, sustainable movement to educate every child about food, to inspire families to cook again, and to empower people everywhere to fight obesity. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause continues)"	不幸地，在接下來十八分鐘的演說中，四位美國人將會死亡，死因是不當的飲食習慣。 我叫做傑米•奧利佛，三十四歲，來自英國的艾塞克斯郡。過去七年來，我孜孜不倦，用自己的方式拯救生命。我不是一名醫生，我是個廚師，我沒有昂貴的設備，或藥品。我利用資訊和教育拯救生命， 我深信食物的力量，在我們的家庭裡佔有一席之地，為我們留住生命中的美好。但我們正面臨一個，極為糟糕的現狀。美國的情況尤其嚴重，美國是全世界最不健康的國家之一。 麻煩各位舉個手讓我知道，現場有多少人是為人父母？請舉個手。是叔叔、阿姨等等的，也請舉手。是叔叔阿姨的也舉手。大部份都是，好。我們過去四個世代的成年人，賦予了我們的孩子一個命運，那就是壽命減短，比父母的壽命還短，你孩子的壽命會比你短十年。這是由我們提供給他們的各式食物所造成的。根據統計數字，現在，全美國有三分之二的人口，過重或是肥胖。你們看起來還好，但別擔心，肥胖會找上你的。 （笑聲） 對吧？從統計數字上看來，明顯的不健康，非常明顯。我們終其一生都在害怕死亡、謀殺、殺人犯，你可以隨口說出一堆。因為那些事件被刊登在報紙的頭條，甚至 CNN 新聞。但老天爺啊，謀殺的死亡率還排在最底下呢！對吧？ （笑聲） （掌聲） 螢幕上你所看到用紅色標出的都是與飲食相關的疾病。任何醫生、專科醫生都會這樣告訴你，這是千真萬確的事實，與飲食相關的疾病是全美國最大的殺手，就是現在，今日，在這裡。這是個全球性的問題，是個災難，這個災難正席捲全球。英國，一如往常，緊追在美國後面。 （笑聲） 我知道他們（英國）很接近了，但（離美國）還有一段距離。我們需要一場革命，墨西哥、澳洲、德國、印度和中國，都面臨了肥胖和不健康的問題。讓我們想想看菸害，現在菸害對於社會所造成的損害已經遠低於肥胖了。肥胖問題佔據美國社會醫療支出負擔的百分之十，那是一年一千五百億美元。十年內這個數字會上翻兩倍，成為一年三千億。誠實點吧，各位，你們沒這麼多錢。 （笑聲） 我今天在此，要發動一場食物革命，我對此堅信不已。我們需要這場革命，刻不容緩，我們處在一個關鍵的轉折期。我已經為此持續努力了七年了，我已經花了七年時間在美國嘗試。現在該是它成熟的時候了，該是收穫的時候了。我直搗暴風眼，我去了西維吉尼亞，美國最不健康的一個州，或應該說去年以前是這樣，今年這個頭銜換人了，但是我們接下來會幫助他們。 （笑聲） 西維吉尼亞的亨丁頓，一個美麗的小鎮。我希望將心靈、人群，還有社區大眾，放到我們已經習以為常的冷淡的統計數據中。我希望將我關心的一些人介紹給你們，你們的社會，你們的孩子。我希望給你們看一張我朋友布列塔尼的照片，她才 16 歲，但她只剩六年可活，全是因為她所吃的食物。她是第三代的美國人，一個在沒有妥善飲食的環境下長大的世代，這個世代從未被教導過如何烹飪，在家沒有，在學校沒有，他媽媽沒有教他，他祖母也沒有教他。她只剩六年可活。她把她的肝臟吃壞了。 愛德華家庭的史黛西，各位，這個家庭並不是一個特例，史黛西已經盡她所能，但是她也同屬這個世代，她從未在家裏或學校學過煮飯做菜，這個家庭有肥胖問題。在這裡是 12 歲的賈司丁，他重 350 磅 （160 公斤）。天殺的，他常常被取笑。這家庭的女兒，凱蒂，她才四歲大，甚至還沒上小學，她就已經有肥胖問題了。瑪利莎，她還好，她跟在場的你們一般。但是你們知道嗎？她有個有肥胖問題的爸爸，她爸爸就在她眼前過世。然後她生命中第二重要的男人，她的叔叔，也因肥胖過世。現在，她的繼父同樣有肥胖問題。所以你們知道了，但問題是肥胖和飲食相關的疾病，並不只是傷害患病的人，它也會傷害所有他們的親朋好友和兄弟姊妹。 史帝夫牧師，一個鼓舞人心的角色。我在西維吉尼亞亨丁頓早期的盟友之一。他就站在這個問題的最前線。因為他必須親自送這些人最後一程，你能想像嗎？他已經受夠了，他已經受夠總是替他的朋友、他的家人、他的社區送終。每到冬天，死亡人數更會增至三倍之多。他對此非常的厭倦。這是可以預防的疾病，真是浪費生命。順帶一提，這是用來埋葬他們的棺材，我們都不夠份量來埋葬他們。甚至連親手送他們的棺材出門都不行，我是很嚴肅的這麼說，甚至連幫忙送上堆高機都不行。 好的，我是以一個三角關係來看待這個問題，好嗎？這是我們食品的樣貌，我需要你們了解它，你們之前大概都已經聽過類似的說法了，但是還是讓我們倒回去再說一次。過去的卅年間，發生了什麼事，幾乎要將這個國家的心臟給掏了出來？讓我們開誠佈公的說，這個嘛，現代生活， 讓我們從大街上看起。我們知道，速食已經佔據了這整個國家。有名的速食品牌名列這個國家最有勢力，最有影響力的名單中，超市也是。大公司，大品牌。卅年前，大多數的食物幾乎仍是區域性的、新鮮的食材。現在，它們被高度加工，並含有大量食品添加物，多餘的調味，接下來的發展大家都知道了。食物的份量顯然是個非常、非常大的問題。標示也是個大問題，這個國家食品的標示是個恥辱。他們想要 ... 他們想要自己球員兼裁判，食品業想要靠自我把關。什麼？在這種現況下，他們不配！你怎麼能說某樣東西是低脂的，但同時它充滿了過量的糖份？ 家庭。家庭發生的最大問題在於，它以往位於傳遞食物以及飲食文化的中樞心臟地帶，這個文化組成了我們的社會。然而這已經成為了過去式。就你們所知，當我們去工作，且生活型態不斷在改變的同時，就像生命永遠在進化一般，我們必須以全觀的視角來看待這個問題，退後一步想一想，然後重拾生活的平衡。這並沒有發生，已經卅年沒有發生了。我希望給你們看一個例子，這在現在非常的常見。以下是愛德華家庭。 （影片）奧利佛：讓我們聊一聊，這些東西每週都經過你和你家人的身體。而我需要你了解，這些東西會讓你的兒女早逝。你現在覺得如何？ 史黛西：我現在覺得非常傷心和沮喪。但，你知道，我希望我的孩子都有個成功的人生，但是這些東西並不會使他們成功。取而代之的，我在殘害他們。 奧利佛：沒錯，你正在殘害他們。但是我們可以停止這個錯誤。這是常態。現在讓我們到學校看看，說到學校的飲食，我可以稱得上是一個專家。好，學校。學校是什麼？誰發明了學校？學校的目的是什麼？創立學校的目的，一直以來，就是提供我們更好的創造與想像力的工具，用來成就不凡，讓我們賴以維生 ... 等等。你知道嗎，學校制度已經處在象牙塔內很久很久了。對吧？但是我們還沒有真的使其朝向應付美國健康災難的路上前進，對吧？學校食物是多數孩子們，事實上，大約每天三千一百萬的孩子，每天兩餐，通常是早餐和午餐，每年 180 天的食物來源。所以你可以說學校的食物非常重要，真的，從現況來看。 （笑聲） 在我開始忍不住罵髒話前，我相信你們一直都在等我開口罵髒話 ... （笑聲） 我需要說一件事，而且這件事非常地重要，希望在未來的三個月內，奇蹟會發生並擴展開來。這些午餐小姐，美國的午餐廚師 ...我自願充當他們的大使，我不是指責他們懶惰，他們已經盡其所能了，他們都已經盡力了。但是他們是按照命令做事，然而這些命令是不正確的。這個體制是由會計師們所經營的。並沒有足夠 — 甚至連一個都可能沒有 —對食物知識淵博的人身在這行中。這是問題的所在。如果你不是個食物專家，同時又受限於微薄的預算，經費愈來愈緊，那麼你就無法發揮創造力，你無法躲避、潛藏或是嘗試改變規則。如果你是一個會計師，或是一個股市操盤者，你在這個情況下，所能做的唯一一件事就是購買廉價的垃圾。 現在，現況是你們的孩子們每天吃的食物是速食，速食是高度加工的，並沒有足夠的新鮮食物包含在其中。你知道的，這些食品添加物的含量、歐盟的 E 編碼、調味料，你不會相信的 ...蔬菜含量遠遠不夠，薯條被認為是蔬菜的一種，早餐吃義大利薄餅。他們甚至不提供陶瓷餐具，更遑論刀叉了！理由是刀叉對孩子太危險。教室裡面可以有剪刀，但是竟然不允許餐廳的刀叉。我看待這件事的觀點是，如果你在學校裡面禁止使用刀叉作為餐具，你純粹只是在助長，以州的立場，助長速食。因為速食可以用手抓著吃。然後順帶一題，是的，就是速食。是漢堡上的碎牛肉、漢堡、熱狗、比薩，都是這些東西。就像我先前說過的，我們健保醫療支出的 10%是花在肥胖疾病上，而且這數字將會倍增。我們沒有教導我們的孩子。因為法律沒有明文規定我們要教導孩子關於食物的知識，不管是小學還是中學，對吧？我們沒有教導孩子與食物有關的知識，對吧？這是一段來自於小學的短片，這在英國也是非常的常見。 影片：誰知道這是什麼？ 孩童：馬鈴薯。奧利佛：馬鈴薯？你認為這些是馬鈴薯？你知道這是什麼嗎？你知道這是什麼嗎？孩童：花椰菜？ 奧利佛：那這個呢？我們的老朋友。小甜心，你知道這是什麼嗎？孩童：芹菜。 奧利佛：不。你認為這是什麼？孩童：洋蔥。奧利佛：洋蔥？不。 奧利佛：馬上你就能很清楚地看出孩子們到底知不知道食物是從哪裡來的。 影片：奧利佛：誰知道這是什麼？孩童：呃，梨子。奧利佛：你認為這是什麼？孩童：我不知道。奧利佛：如果孩童不認識這些食物，那麼他們永遠不會去吃它。 （笑聲） 奧利佛：這在英國跟美國是常態，英國跟美國。猜猜怎麼補救，怎樣才能挽救？只要兩堂一小時的課。我們必須開始在學校裡教導孩子們與食物有關的知識，就這麼簡單。 （掌聲） 我想告訴你們一件事，有關於我們所遭遇的麻煩處境的縮影，沒問題吧？我想談談像是牛奶這麼基本的東西，每個孩子都有在學校喝牛奶的權利。你們的孩子在學校的早午餐都會喝牛奶，對吧？他們一天會喝兩瓶，對吧？大多數的孩子是這樣。但是牛奶已經不再是好東西了，因為在牛奶理事會的某人，是的，請不要誤解，我支持牛奶，但是在牛奶理事會的某人，也許付了一堆錢給某些怪人，他們發現如果你加入大量的香料、色素和糖份到牛奶裡面，是的，更多的孩子會去喝牛奶，是的。 （掌聲） 很明顯的，這種做法有後來居上的趨勢。蘋果理事會將會發現，如果他們做太妃糖蘋果，孩子們也會吃更多的蘋果。你們知道我在說什麼嗎？對我來說，我認為在牛奶中添加香料完全沒有必要。對吧？每樣東西內都有糖。我對這些調味料瞭若指掌。所有東西中都有糖，甚至連牛奶也不例外，這是現代食物的通病。這是我們的牛奶，這是我們的牛奶包裝。在那包裝裡面的含糖量，幾乎等於一罐你喜歡的碳酸飲料易開罐包裝，然後他們每天喝兩瓶。所以，現在讓我給你們看看。在這邊，我們有一個孩子，你知道的，一天吃八湯匙的糖份。你知道嗎，這是一星期的量，而這是一個月的量，現在容我擅自將小學五年裡，僅從牛奶中所攝取到的糖份倒進這邊。現在，我不知道各位怎麼想，但是從客觀情況來看，是的，在這世界上的任何一位法官，將會看著證據與統計數字，然後他們將會判決政府一直在虐待兒童，這是我所相信的。 （掌聲） 現在，如果我到台上來，我也希望我今天到台上來，能提出愛滋病或是癌症的解藥，你們將會爭先恐後的希望能夠認識我。這些，所有的這些壞消息，是可以被預防的。這是一個好消息。這些問題是極度能夠被預防的。所以，讓我們一起來想想，現在有個問題，我們需要重新來過。好，那麼，我們到底該怎麼做？所以，這邊有一個重點，那就是解決問題不能僅由一個來源著手。為了重新來過，並且做出明顯的改變，真正的改變，這樣我才有辦法直視你的雙眼，然後說：「十年內，你們孩子生命的歷史正在發生，喜樂 — 並讓我們不要忘記，如果你們吃得好，會變得更聰明，你確信你將會更長壽，所有的這些事物都將會變得不同，對吧？」 因此，超級市場。還有哪裡你會這麼規律的去消費？每週進出，在你一生中，有多少錢是花在超市購物上？很愛他們吧，他們只會賣給我們我們所想要的東西，沒錯。身為他們的衣食父母，我們有權利要求在每一個主要超市內安排一個食物大使。超市必須幫助我們購物，他們必須教我們如何烹調快速、好吃、當季的食物，給那些忙碌的人們。這並不昂貴。某些超市已經這麼做了，現在我們必須在全美國的超市推廣，並且要快。那些知名品牌，你知道的，食品的大廠，需要在他們的業務中心投注食品教育。我知道，說得輕鬆，做起來難。但是為了美好的未來，這是唯一的途徑。 速食。速食產業，你知道的，非常的競爭。我和速食餐廳間有大量的秘密文件和生意往來。我知道他們是怎麼做的。我是說，基本上，他們已經讓我們戒斷這些熱門的糖、鹽、脂肪等等。而且大家都愛他們，對吧？所以，這些傢伙將會是解決方案的一部分。但是我們需要政府的加入，連同所有這些速食的推廣者和餐飲業。使在接下來的五、六、七年間，讓我們戒斷過量的脂肪、糖份、脂肪和所有的這些不屬於食物的調味料。 現在，讓我們回到與品牌相關的問題，標示，我先前說過了，這些標示是一場鬧劇，必須要加以解決。好了，學校。很明顯的，在學校中，我們欠這些孩子，我們必須確保每年學期中的 180 天，從那些寶貝的四歲小朋友，到 18, 20, 24 或不管幾歲，我們都需要為他們準備妥善烹調的新鮮食物，使用的是當地生長的食材，好嗎？我們需要為你們的孩子建立一個新的、妥善的新鮮食物標準，對吧？ （掌聲） 在這種現況下，我們要使每一個美國孩童在離開學校前，知道如何烹煮十道菜，這件事非常地重要，這將會拯救他們的生命。這也是一種生活技巧。 （掌聲） 那意味著他們可以是學生、年輕家長，並且能夠對於基本的烹飪技巧游刃有餘，不管下一次經濟蕭條何時會影響到他們。如果你會烹飪，薪資縮水的影響就沒那麼巨大了。如果你會烹飪，蕭條的時間也不重要了。工作場所，我們還沒有真正談到這邊。你知道，現在該是企業負起責任的時候了，好好的看看他們為他們的員工所準備並供應給他們的食物。這些員工都是美國孩童的爸媽。瑪麗莎，她父親在她面前死去，我相信如果美國企業能夠開始提供他們的員工妥善的飲食，瑪麗莎將會非常高興。他們絕對不應該被遺忘。回過頭來談談家庭。 現在，聽著，如果我們通通做到了，而且我們做得到，絕對做得到。你們可以照顧人們並同時維持生計。絕對可以。但是家庭需要再次開始傳遞烹飪技術，這一點是確定的。必須要將其當作是一種生活哲學般的傳遞下去。對我來說，這件事情是非常浪漫的。但這也是說，如果一個人教導三個人如何做某樣菜，然後他們又再教導三個他們的夥伴，大家只需要重複這樣做 25 次，這就是全美國的人口數了。浪漫，是的，但是更重要的是，嘗試讓人們明瞭，每一個人所付出的努力，都可以帶來改變。我們必須重拾已經失去的東西。亨丁頓廚房，亨丁頓，我拍攝這個節目的地方，你知道，我們做了這個黃金時段的節目，希望將能激發人們真正的做出改變。我真的相信這改變將會發生。亨丁頓廚房，我在一個社區工作，在學校裡面工作。我為其找到了當地可維持其運作的資金來源，讓該地區的每一個學校，從垃圾食物，轉變到新鮮食物。每個學校只要六千五百美元。 （掌聲） 這就是他們所需的，每個學校只要六千五。我們的廚房一個月有兩萬五的經費，好嗎？所以它一年可以教導五千個人，大約是當地人口的十分之一。而且這是人人相傳下去。你知道，當地的廚師教導當地的人們。這是免費的烹任教是，各位，在大街上的免費烹飪教室。這是真正的，明顯的改變，真正的，明顯的改變。跑遍全美，如果現在讓我們回過頭來看，美妙的事情正在發生。全美各處都有美妙的事情正在發生，全美各地都有天使在成就一些偉大的事，在學校內，校內農場，花園，教育。已經有一群不可思議的人們在這麼做了。問題在於儘管他們都希望能將他們所正在做的事情推廣到下一個學校，然後再下一個。但是他們沒有錢。我們必須快速的找到這些專家和天使，認出他們，並讓他們能夠很容易的找到他們需要的資源，以能持續推廣他們的所作所為，並愈做愈好。美國的商業界需要支持總統夫人去做她想要做的事。 （掌聲） 聽著，我知道這很奇怪，一個英國人站在你們面前談論這些事物。我所能說的是，身為一個父親，我真的在乎。我愛這個國家。事實上，我真正的認為如果這個國家能夠做出改變，美妙的事情將會在世界上發生。如果美國這麼做了，我相信其他人將會效法。這極端地重要。 （掌聲） 當我在亨丁頓，嘗試讓一些事情能順利運作，當事情進展得不順利時，我想過，如果我有個魔杖，我會做些什麼？然後我想，你知道嗎？我會希望：我能夠站在美國最不可思議的一群有影響力的社會運動人士面前。然後一個月後，TED 打電話通知我獲得了這個大獎。我到這邊了。所以，我希望閱讀障礙，所以我會唸得有些慢。我希望，你們能夠幫助支持一個強大且持續性的運動，教育每個孩子關於食物的知識，激發家庭重拾烹飪的樂趣，賦予各地的大眾能力來一起對抗肥胖問題。 （掌聲） 謝謝各位 （掌聲）
