Talk	en	zh-tw
jamila_lyiscott_3_ways_to_speak_english	"Today, a baffled lady observed the shell where my soul dwells And announced that I'm ""articulate"" Which means that when it comes to enunciation and diction I don't even think of it ‘Cause I’m ""articulate"" So when my professor asks a question And my answer is tainted with a connotation of urbanized suggestion There’s no misdirected intention Pay attention ‘Cause I’m “articulate” So when my father asks, “Wha’ kinda ting is dis?” My “articulate” answer never goes amiss I say “father, this is the impending problem at hand” And when I’m on the block I switch it up just because I can So when my boy says, “What’s good with you son?” I just say, “I jus’ fall out wit dem people but I done!” And sometimes in class I might pause the intellectual sounding flow to ask “Yo! Why dese books neva be about my peoples” Yes, I have decided to treat all three of my languages as equals Because I’m “articulate” But who controls articulation? Because the English language is a multifaceted oration Subject to indefinite transformation Now you may think that it is ignorant to speak broken English But I’m here to tell you that even “articulate” Americans sound foolish to the British So when my Professor comes on the block and says, “Hello” I stop him and say “Noooo … You’re being inarticulate … the proper way is to say ‘what’s good’” Now you may think that’s too hood, that’s not cool But I’m here to tell you that even our language has rules So when Mommy mocks me and says “ya’ll-be-madd-going-to-the-store” I say “Mommy, no, that sentence is not following the law Never does the word ""madd"" go  before a present participle That’s simply the principle of this English” If I had the vocal capacity I would sing this from every mountaintop, From every suburbia, and every hood ‘Cause the only God of language is the one recorded in the Genesis Of this world saying “it is good"" So I may not always come before you with excellency of speech But do not judge me by my language and assume That I’m too ignorant to teach ‘Cause I speak three tongues One for each: Home, school and friends I’m a tri-lingual orator Sometimes I’m consistent with my language now Then switch it up so I don’t bore later Sometimes I fight back two tongues While I use the other one in the classroom And when I mistakenly mix them up I feel crazy like … I’m cooking in the bathroom I know that I had to borrow your language because mines was stolen But you can’t expect me to speak your history wholly while mines is broken These words are spoken By someone who is simply fed up with the Eurocentric ideals of this season And the reason I speak a composite version of your language Is because mines was raped away along with my history I speak broken English so the profusing gashes can remind us That our current state is not a mystery I’m so tired of the negative images that are driving my people mad So unless you’ve seen it rob a bank stop calling my hair bad I’m so sick of this nonsensical racial disparity So don’t call it good unless your hair is known for donating to charity As much as has been raped away from our people How can you expect me to treat their imprint on your language As anything less than equal Let there be no confusion Let there be no hesitation This is not a promotion of ignorance This is a linguistic celebration That’s why I put ""tri-lingual"" on my last job application I can help to diversify your consumer market is all I wanted them to know And when they call me for the interview I’ll be more than happy to show that I can say: “What’s good” “Whatagwan” And of course …“Hello” Because I’m “articulate” Thank you. (Applause)"	"今天，有一位女士疑惑地望著我 然後誇我有“語言天賦” 意思是我根本不用 思考發音和用字 因為我有“語言天賦” 所以當教授提問我時 我的回答總會摻雜一些新潮時髦的用詞 這並不是我胡編亂造 要知道 因為我有“語言天賦” 每次我老爸問我：“這事情是怎麼了？” 我都能“有才”的巧妙帶過 “老爸，這是手上的現實問題” 當我去逛街時我會用另一種說話方式，只因為我能 所以當我的孩子說：“怎麼了？” 我只會說：“我剛和該死的傢伙吵架，但我吵完了！ 有時在課堂上 我可能會使用不標準的英語發音發問 “嘿，為什麼這些書從來不關注我的同胞？” 沒錯，我已經決定輪流使用我的三種說話方式表達平等 因為我有“語言天賦” 但是誰規定要咬字清晰？ 因為英語本就是一門多語素的語言 有著大量不定的句式變換 現在，你可能會覺得說一蹩腳的英語有些無知 但我想說即便“咬字清晰”的美國人講英語在英國人聽來也會覺得好笑 所以當我的教授在路上碰到我用“你好""跟我打招呼時 我會打斷他，說：“不不不… 您打招呼的方式不對…應該說‘近來好嗎？’” 現在你們可能覺得這太死板，不酷 但我想說即使是我們自己的語言都有規則 所以當我媽咪調侃我“你又瘋去商店了” 我會跟她說：“媽咪，這句話不合語法 沒人會在現在分詞前用“madd”這個詞 這是英語的基本語法” 如果我有一副好嗓子我會從山頂， 郊外和街區大聲高唱 ""因為最標準的語言記錄在《創世紀》 說這個世界""很好"" 所以和在座各位相比我的言語略顯笨拙 但不要以我說的說話方式來評判我，並且認為 我過於無知，不可教也。 因為我會說三種語言 這三種語言的場合分別是： 家人、師生，和朋友 我是一個會三種語言的人 有時我會一直使用現在跟你們說話的語言 然後偶爾轉換一下，這樣就不會感到無聊 有時我會在課堂上使用另一種語言時 這時我必須靈活運用這兩種說話方式 當我不慎混用語言時 我會覺得很瘋狂就好像…在浴室裡做飯一樣 我知道我必須學會你們的語言因為我自己的語言遭到竊取 但是如果我的語言很蹩腳你們不能期望我從頭到尾一直使用標準的英語 用這個說話方式的人 只是表達對歐洲理想主義煩透了 而且我說多種口音的英語的原因 是因為我的母語已經遭到歷史“抹殺” 我說著一口不標準的英語太多的語言差異能夠提醒我們 我們黑人的現狀並不是一個難解的謎 我受夠這些對黑人形象的抹黑讓我的同胞忍無可忍 所以除非你們親眼看到黑人搶劫銀行否則請不要妄加指責 我對這種荒誕的種族歧視已經深感厭惡 所以不要覺得這是正常除非你們的同胞捐獻給慈善機構的數量 與我的同胞被抹黑的數量一樣多 你們如何能期望我在你們的語言中療癒這些印記？ 因為所有一切根本不平等 讓困惑從此遠離 讓迷茫從此不再 這不是在宣揚愚昧無知 而是語言帶給我們的福音 這也是我在最新的求職信上寫下“會三種語言”的原因 我這麼做的出發點是想讓他們知道我能幫助公司在市場上增加多元化的客戶 如果他們打電話通知我面試時我一定會很樂意的展示我的語言技能 我會說： “近來好嗎？” “怎麼樣了？” 當然還有“你好” 因為我有“語言天賦” 謝謝。 （掌聲）"
