Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_fonda_and_lily_tomlin_a_hilarious_celebration_of_lifelong_female_friendship	"Pat Mitchell: So I was thinking about female friendship a lot, and by the way, these two women, I'm very honored to say, have been my friends for a very long time, too. Jane Fonda: Yes we have. PM: And one of the things that I read about female friendship is something that Cervantes said. He said, ""You can tell a lot about someone,"" in this case a woman, ""by the company that she keeps."" So let's start with — (Laughter) JF: We're in big trouble. Lily Tomlin: Hand me one of those waters, I'm extremely dry. (Laughter) JF: You're taking up our time. We have a very limited — LT: Just being with her sucks the life out of me. (Laughter) JF: You ain't seen nothing yet. Anyway — sorry. PM: So tell me, what do you look for in a friend? LT: I look for someone who has a sense of fun, who's audacious, who's forthcoming, who has politics, who has even a small scrap of passion for the planet, someone who's decent, has a sense of justice and who thinks I'm worthwhile. (Laughter) (Applause) JF: You know, I was thinking this morning, I don't even know what I would do without my women friends. I mean it's, ""I have my friends, therefore I am."" LT: (Laughter) JF: No, it's true. I exist because I have my women friends. They — You're one of them. I don't know about you. But anyway — (Laughter) You know, they make me stronger, they make me smarter, they make me braver. They tap me on the shoulder when I might be in need of course-correcting. And most of them are a good deal younger than me, too. You know? I mean, it's nice — LT: Thank you. (Laughter) JF: No, I do, I include you in that, because listen, you know — it's nice to have somebody still around to play with and learn from when you're getting toward the end. I'm approaching — I'll be there sooner than you. LT: No, I'm glad to have you parallel aging alongside me. (Laughter) JF: I'm showing you the way. (Laughter) LT: Well, you are and you have. PM: Well, as we grow older, and as we go through different kinds of life's journeys, what do you do to keep your friendships vital and alive? LT: Well you have to use a lot of — JF: She doesn't invite me over much, I'll tell you that. LT: I have to use a lot of social media — You be quiet now. And so — (Laughter) LT: And I look through my emails, I look through my texts to find my friends, so I can answer them as quickly as possible, because I know they need my counsel. (Laughter) They need my support, because most of my friends are writers, or activists, or actors, and you're all three ... and a long string of other descriptive phrases, and I want to get to you as soon as possible, I want you to know that I'm there for you. JF: Do you do emojis? LT: Oh ... JF: No? LT: That's embarrassing. JF: I'm really into emojis. LT: No, I spell out my — I spell out my words of happiness and congratulations, and sadness. JF: You spell it right out — LT: I spell it, every letter. (Laughter) JF: Such a purist. You know, as I've gotten older, I've understood more the importance of friendships, and so, I really make an effort to reach out and make play dates — not let too much time go by. I read a lot so, as Lily knows all too well, my books that I like, I send to my friends. LT: When we knew we would be here today you sent me a lot of books about women, female friendships, and I was so surprised to see how many books, how much research has been done recently — JF: And were you grateful? LT: I was grateful. (Laughter) PM: And — LT: Wait, no, it's really important because this is another example of how women are overlooked, put aside, marginalized. There's been very little research done on us, even though we volunteered lots of times. JF: That's for sure. (Laughter) LT: This is really exciting, and you all will be interested in this. The Harvard Medical School study has shown that women who have close female friendships are less likely to develop impairments — physical impairments as they age, and they are likely to be seen to be living much more vital, exciting — JF: And longer — LT: Joyful lives. JF: We live five years longer than men. LT: I think I'd trade the years for joy. (Laughter) LT: But the most important part is they found — the results were so exciting and so conclusive — the researchers found that not having close female friends is detrimental to your health, as much as smoking or being overweight. JF: And there's something else, too — LT: I've said my part, so ... (Laughter) JF: OK, well, listen to my part, because there's an additional thing. Because they only — for years, decades — they only researched men when they were trying to understand stress, only very recently have they researched what happens to women when we're stressed, and it turns out that when we're stressed — women, our bodies get flooded by oxytocin. Which is a feel-good, calming, stress-reducing hormone. Which is also increased when we're with our women friends. And I do think that's one reason why we live longer. And I feel so bad for men because they don't have that. Testosterone in men diminishes the effects of oxytocin. LT: Well, when you and I and Dolly made ""9 to 5"" ... JF: Oh — LT: We laughed, we did, we laughed so much, we found we had so much in common and we're so different. Here she is, like Hollywood royalty, I'm like a tough kid from Detroit, [Dolly's] a Southern kid from a poor town in Tennessee, and we found we were so in sync as women, and we must have — we laughed — we must have added at least a decade onto our lifespans. JF: I think — we sure crossed our legs a lot. (Laughter) If you know what I mean. LT: I think we all know what you mean. (Laughter) PM: You're adding decades to our lives right now. So among the books that Jane sent us both to read on female friendship was one by a woman we admire greatly, Sister Joan Chittister, who said about female friendship that women friends are not just a social act, they're a spiritual act. Do you think of your friends as spiritual? Do they add something spiritual to your lives? LT: Spiritual — I absolutely think that. Because — especially people you've known a long time, people you've spent time with — I can see the spiritual essence inside them, the tenderness, the vulnerability. There's actually kind of a love, an element of love in the relationship. I just see deeply into your soul. PM: Do you think that, Jane — LT: But I have special powers. JF: Well, there's all kinds of friends. There's business friends, and party friends, I've got a lot of those. (Laughter) But the oxytocin-producing friendships have ... They feel spiritual because it's a heart opening, right? You know, we go deep. And — I find that I shed tears a lot with my intimate friends. Not because I'm sad but because I'm so touched and inspired by them. LT: And you know one of you is going to go soon. (Laughter) PM: Well, two of us are sitting here, Lily, which one are you talking about? (Laughter) And I always think, when women talk about their friendships, that men always look a little mystified. What are the differences, in your opinion, between men friendships and women friendships? JF: There's a lot of difference, and I think we have to have a lot of empathy for men — (Laughter) that they don't have what we have. Which I think may be why they die sooner. (Laughter) I have a lot of compassion for men, because women, no kidding, we — women's relationships, our friendships are full disclosure, we go deep. They're revelatory. We risk vulnerability — this is something men don't do. I mean how many times have I asked you, ""Am I doing OK?"" ""Did I really screw up there?"" PM: You're doing great. (Laughter) JF: But I mean, we ask questions like that of our women friends, and men don't. You know, people describe women's relationships as face-to-face, whereas men's friendships are more side-by-side. LT: I mean most of the time men don't want to reveal their emotions, they want to bury deeper feelings. I mean, that's the general, conventional thought. They would rather go off in their man cave and watch a game or hit golf balls, or talk about sports, or hunting, or cars or have sex. I mean, it's just the kind of — it's a more manly behavior. JF: You meant — LT: They talk about sex. I meant they might have sex if they could get somebody in their man cave to — (Laughter) JF: You know something, though, that I find very interesting — and again, psychologists didn't know this until relatively recently — is that men are born every bit as relational as women are. If you look at films of newborn baby boys and girls, you'll see the baby boys just like the girls, gazing into their mother's eyes, you know, needing that relational exchange of energy. When the mother looks away, they could see the dismay on the child, even the boy would cry. They need relationship. So the question is why, as they grow older, does that change? And the answer is patriarchal culture, which says to boys and young men that to be needing of relationship, to be emotional with someone is girly. That a real man doesn't ask directions or express a need, they don't go to doctors if they feel bad. They don't ask for help. There's a quote that I really like, ""Men fear that becoming 'we' will erase his 'I'."" You know, his sense of self. Whereas women's sense of self has always been kind of porous. But our ""we"" is our saving grace, it's what makes us strong. It's not that we're better than men, we just don't have our masculinity to prove. LT: And, well — JF: That's a Gloria Steinem quote. So we can express our humanity — LT: I know who Gloria Steinem is. JF: I know you know who she is, but I think it's a — (Laughter) No, but it's a great quote, I think. We're not better than men, we just don't have our masculinity to prove. And that's really important. LT: But men are so inculcated in the culture to be comfortable in the patriarchy. And we've got to make something different happen. JF: Women's friendships are like a renewable source of power. LT: Well, that's what's exciting about this subject. It's because our friendships — female friendships are just a hop to our sisterhood, and sisterhood can be a very powerful force, to give the world — to make it what it should be — the things that humans desperately need. PM: It is why we're talking about it, because women's friendships are, as you said, Jane, a renewable source of power. So how do we use that power? JF: Well, women are the fastest growing demographic in the world, especially older women. And if we harness our power, we can change the world. And guess what? We need to. (Applause) And we need to do it soon. And one of the things that we need to do — and we can do it as women — for one thing, we kind of set the consumer standards. We need to consume less. We in the Western world need to consume less and when we buy things, we need to buy things that are made locally, when we buy food, we need to buy food that's grown locally. We are the ones that need to get off the grid. We need to make ourselves independent from fossil fuels. And the fossil fuel companies — the Exxons and the Shell Oils and those bad guys — cause they are — are going to tell us that we can't do it without going back to the Stone Age. You know, that the alternatives just aren't quite there yet, and that's not true. There are countries in the world right now that are living mostly on renewable energy and doing just fine. And they tell us that if we do wean ourselves from fossil fuel that we're going to be back in the Stone Age, and in fact, if we begin to use renewable energy, and not drill in the Arctic, and not drill — LT: Oh, boy. JF: And not drill in the Alberta tar sands — Right. That we will be — there will be more democracy and more jobs and more well-being, and it's women that are going to lead the way. LT: Maybe we have the momentum to start a third-wave feminist movement with our sisterhood around the world, with women we don't see, women we may never meet, but we join together that way, because — Aristotle said — most people — people would die without male friendships. And the operative word here was ""male."" Because they thought that friendships should be between equals and women were not considered equal — JF: They didn't think we had souls even, the Greeks. LT: No, exactly. That shows you just how limited Aristotle was. (Laughter) And wait, no, here's the best part. It's like, you know, men do need women now. The planet needs women. The US Constitution needs women. We are not even in the Constitution. JF: You're talking about the Equal Rights Amendment. LT: Right. Justice Ginsberg said something like — every constitution that's been written since the end of World War II included a provision that made women citizens of equal stature, but ours does not. So that would be a good place to start. Very, very mild — JF: Right. (Applause) And gender equality, it's like a tide, it would lift all boats, not just women. PM: Needing new role models on how to do that. How to be friends, how to think about our power in different ways, as consumers, as citizens of the world, and this is what makes Jane and Lily a role model of how women can be friends — for a very long time, and even if they occasionally disagree. Thank you. Thank you both. (Applause) JF: Thanks. LT: Thank you. JF: Thank you. (Applause)"	帕特·米歇爾(PM)：我最近一直在思索女性友誼對了，我很榮幸向大家介紹這兩位女士是認識非常久的老朋友珍‧芳達(JF)：的確 PM：我曾讀過賽凡提斯講述有關女性友誼的話他說從一個人的朋友群這裡我們是指女生就可以看得出那人的修養那我們來開始 （笑聲） JF：我們有大麻煩了 莉莉‧湯姆琳(LT)：水遞過來，我很渴 （笑聲） JF：妳在佔用我們的時間我們只有非常有限... LT：單單跟她在一起就快榨光我的命了 （笑聲） JF：妳還沒看到更厲害的呢！好啦總之對不起 PM：告訴我，妳在朋友身上尋求什麼 LT：我尋找有幽默感、勇於創新樂於助人、有政治觀甚至有點熱愛地球舉止得體、有正義感並看重我的人 （笑聲） （鼓掌） JF：今早我在想我根本無法想像沒有我的女性朋友會怎樣我的意思是說我有朋友，故我在 LT：（笑聲） JF：真的，沒騙妳我因我的女性朋友們而存在妳也是其中之一至於妳這朋友，我就不知道了，反正... （笑聲） 她們使我更堅強、更聰明、更勇敢當我需要指正時她們會來拍拍我肩膀而且大多都比我年輕很多我是說，其實這滿不賴的LT：真是謝囉 （笑聲） JF：我是認真的我把妳歸在那類是因為在邁向人生終點的旅途仍有人可以陪妳玩，讓妳學習是很棒的我越來越靠近死亡我會比妳早抵達的LT：不，我很高興有妳陪我一起老去 （笑聲） JF：我在幫妳帶路呢（笑聲） LT：妳一直以來都是 PM：隨著我們年齡增長 我們走過不同人生旅途妳們是如何維持友誼的LT：妳必須用很多... JF：對了。她不常邀我去她家 LT：我需要用很多社群媒體 妳給我閉嘴，然後...（笑聲） LT：我看過每一封電郵、簡訊 來找到朋友以便可以盡快回覆他們因為我知道他們需要我的忠告（笑聲） 他們需要我的支持 因為我的朋友大多都是作家、社運領導人或演員而妳三者兼具外加一長串描述性字句我希望我可以盡快與妳聯繫上我想讓妳知道我與妳同在JF：妳玩表情符號嗎 LT：呃JF：沒有嗎 LT：這有點尷尬JF：我超愛表情符號的 LT：不，我都會拼出我的 我拼出我的快樂、恭喜與悲傷JF：妳把它們全都拼出來 LT：我拼出每一個字母 （笑聲） JF：真是有夠龜毛 當我越來越老時我越來越理解友誼的重要性也因此我花了很多精力找朋友玩，安排派對不讓太多時間白白流逝我讀很多書因此如同莉莉所知我會把喜歡的書寄給我朋友LT：當我們知道今天要來這裡時 妳寄給我一大堆有關女人跟女性友誼的書我很訝異看到最近竟有出版那麼多的書跟研究JF：妳有很感激嗎LT：有喔 （笑聲） PM：那麼 LT：等等，這很重要因為這是另一個 有關女人是如何被忽略擱在一邊、邊緣化的例子很少有關我們的研究儘管我們多次自願JF：沒錯 （笑聲） LT：這個滿有趣的你們都會對這感興趣的 哈佛醫學院的研究指出維持親密女性友誼的女人身體比較不容易衰退隨著年紀身體的衰退她們也較容易過更有活力精彩JF：還有更長 LT：快樂的人生 JF：我們平均比男生多活五年 LT：我想我甘願短命一點換取快樂晚年 （笑聲） LT：但最重要的是他們發現 這些結果十分振奮人心而確切研究指出沒有女性摯友對身體健康有害與抽菸或過重有同等效果JF：當然還有其他結論 LT：反正我把我的部分講完了 （笑聲） JF：好，那現在聽我的部分因為還有一件事情 這幾十年當他們嘗試理解壓力時他們只研究男生直到最近他們才研究女生面對壓力時的狀況結論是當我們有壓力時我們身體會分泌大量催產素一個讓妳感覺良好平靜、舒壓的賀爾蒙當我們跟女性朋友在一起時它的濃度也會上升而我確信它是其中一個讓我們活得比較久的理由而我由衷對男生感到抱歉因為他們沒有男生體內的睪固酮會降低催產素的效果LT：當妳跟我還有桃莉一起拍攝喜劇《朝九晚五》時 JF：噢 LT：我們一直笑個不停 我們發現我們有許多共同點但我們也是如此不同她就像好萊塢貴族我就像來自底特律的頑強孩子（桃莉）是來自田納西貧窮小鎮的南方小孩我們發現身為女人我們在一起是多麼和諧而我們大笑的程度一定有至少幫自己延長十年的壽命JF：我們倒是很常翹腳 （笑聲） 如果妳知道我在說什麼LT：我想我們都知道妳在說什麼 （笑聲） PM：妳們正在幫我們延長幾十年壽命 因此在珍送我們眾多有關女性友誼的書中有一本作者是我們十分景仰的 Sister Joan Chittister她說過有關女性友誼的話女性朋友不單只是社交性的她也是精神性的妳覺得妳的朋友是精神上的益友嗎他們有帶給妳人生精神上的影響嗎 LT：精神上嘛，我確信是如此特別是一個你認識很久你花很多時間相處的人我可以從他們身上看到精神上的元素柔和、脆弱實際上在這關係裡有一種愛的成分我只是深深地看透朋友的心靈罷了 PM：妳認同嗎，珍？LT：但我有超能力JF：朋友各式各樣 有生意上的朋友和派對朋友這類型的我有很多 （笑聲） 但是讓催產素分泌的友誼這種友誼是精神上的因為讓人敞開心房，對吧？我們很深入了解彼此，然後我發現與閨密在一起時，經常掉眼淚不是因為我傷心而是因為我被他們感動和啟發LT：而且妳知道其中有個人就快要走了 （笑聲） PM：莉莉，我們兩個人都坐在這裡妳是說誰啊 （笑聲） 而且我覺得當女人談友誼時男人總是有點不解在妳的認知裡到底男性友誼跟女性友誼有何差別 JF：這有很多差別啊我想我們對男人需要很多同理心 （笑聲） 因為他們沒有我們所擁有的我想這也是為什麼他們比較早死吧 （笑聲） 我對男人深感同情因為女人，我沒有在開玩笑我們女性友誼是不隱藏、深入是坦承一切的我們冒著自身的脆弱而這是男人不會做的像是，我多次問妳妳覺得我怎樣我真的把一切搞砸了嗎PM：妳做的很棒 （笑聲） JF：我想表達的是我們會問女性朋友這種問題 但男人不會人們常把女性關係描述成面對面但把男性關係描述成肩並肩 LT：我是覺得多數時間男生不願意表露情感他們寧可把更深層的感覺隱藏起來我想大致上那是傳統的認知吧他們寧可躲進男人窩裡面看場比賽打打高爾夫球或談談運動、打獵、汽車或做愛我是說這是種比較男人的行為JF：妳說...LT：他們談論性吧 我是說他們可以做愛如果他們把人帶進男人窩裡的話 （笑聲） JF：我發現有件事很有趣再一次地，心理學家是最近才發現的男生與女生出生時是有相同的情感取向的如果你看新生男孩、女孩的影片你會發現其實男孩跟女孩一樣會凝視媽媽的眼睛你知道的，他們需要情感上的的能量交換當媽媽望向其他地方時他們可以看到寶寶臉上的沮喪男生甚至會哭他們需要情感所以問題是為什麼長大後這個取向變了答案是父權文化的關係需要情感或感性的男孩與年輕男性是很女孩子氣的真正的男人不需要詢問方向或表示需求當他們生病時不會去看醫生他們不求救有一句引言我很喜歡男人畏懼成為「我們」會使他的「我」消失其實就是他的自我感相反地，女人的自我感是圓融的我們的「我們」是我們保有的精神力量是讓我們強壯的不是說我們比男人好我們僅僅是不需要證明自己的陽剛罷了 LT：還有 JF：那是一句來自 Gloria Steinem 的引言所以我們可以表現我們的人性LT：我知道 Gloris Steinem 是誰 JF：我知道妳知道她是誰，但我覺得... （笑聲） 但我想這是句好引言對吧不是說我們比男人好我們僅僅是不需要證明自己的陽剛罷了這很重要 LT：但在這文化中男人一直被灌輸在父權制度下感到舒適我們必須做出改變 JF：女性友誼則像一股永不止歇的力量來源 LT：這正是這話題振奮人心之處因為我們的友誼女性友誼正是「姊妹淘」的跳板而姊妹淘是非常強而有力的可以讓世界有模有樣給人們迫切需要的東西 PM：這正是為何我們談論它因為女性友誼是如同妳說的，珍是永不止歇的力量泉源那我們該如何使用這股力量呢JF：女性是世界是上成長最快的人口 特別是年長女性如果我們使用這股力量我們可以改變世界而且我們必須如此 （鼓掌） 我們必須盡快這麼做其中一件我們該做的事情我們能以女性身分來達成是我們似乎設定某種消費標準我們必須消費較少在西方世界裡，我們必須消費較少當我們買東西時，我們必須買本地貨品當我們買食物時，必須買當地生產的食物我們必須不依靠電力公司我們必須不依靠化石燃料而化石燃料公司Exxon 與 Shell Oils 和那些壞人他們真的是壞人會告訴如果不回到石器時代我們根本辦不到這些替代方案還沒出現但那不是事實已經有國家主要靠再生能源而且過得不錯而他們說，如果我們捨棄化石燃料我們將會回到原始石器時代事實是如果我們開始使用再生能源不要在北極採油 LT：噢，天哪 JF：不要在亞伯特焦油層採油那麼我們將會有更多的民主平等、工作與福利而正是女性會領導這條路 LT：或許我們有動力來推行第三波女性主義運動與我們在全世界的姐妹與我們見不到、從未謀面的女性我們是這樣團結在一起的因為亞里士多德曾說多數人還沒有男性友誼就死去這裡特別強調「男性」是因為他們認為友誼是對等的而女性不被視為地位平等的 JF：希臘人甚至不認為我們有靈魂呢 LT：沒錯，這告訴我們亞里士多德是多麼視野狹窄 （笑聲） 等等，這是最棒的部分男生的確需要女生這星球需要女生美國憲法需要女生我們卻沒有在憲法裡面 JF：妳是在說男女平權修正案吧 LT：沒錯金斯伯格大法官曾說過一句話類似所有在二戰後制定的憲法都包括使女性地位平等的條文但我們的沒有所以這是一個很好的出發點非常非常粗淺 JF：沒錯 （鼓掌） 而且啊，性別平等就像水漲船高一人得道雞犬升天，不只是女性而已 PM：我們需要新的模範指示方向如何當朋友如何以不同角度思考我們的力量消費者的角度世界公民的角度這也是為何珍和莉莉是女性如何當朋友的典範當長久的朋友即使她們有時意見不合謝謝謝謝兩位 （鼓掌） JF：謝謝 LT：謝謝 JF：謝謝 （鼓掌）
