Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_fonda_life_s_third_act	"There have been many revolutions over the last century, but perhaps none as significant as the longevity revolution. We are living on average today 34 years longer than our great-grandparents did — think about that. That's an entire second adult lifetime that's been added to our lifespan. And yet, for the most part, our culture has not come to terms with what this means. We're still living with the old paradigm of age as an arch. That's the metaphor, the old metaphor. You're born, you peak at midlife and decline into decrepitude. (Laughter) Age as pathology. But many people today — philosophers, artists, doctors, scientists — are taking a new look at what I call ""the third act"" — the last three decades of life. They realize that this is actually a developmental stage of life with its own significance, as different from midlife as adolescence is from childhood. And they are asking — we should all be asking: How do we use this time? How do we live it successfully? What is the appropriate new metaphor for aging? I've spent the last year researching and writing about this subject. And I have come to find that a more appropriate metaphor for aging is a staircase — the upward ascension of the human spirit, bringing us into wisdom, wholeness, and authenticity. Age not at all as pathology. Age as potential. And guess what? This potential is not for the lucky few. It turns out, most people over 50 feel better, are less stressed, less hostile, less anxious. We tend to see commonalities more than differences. Some of the studies even say we're happier. (Laughter) This is not what I expected, trust me. I come from a long line of depressives. As I was approaching my late 40s, when I would wake up in the morning, my first six thoughts would all be negative. And I got scared. I thought, ""Oh my gosh. I'm going to become a crotchety old lady."" But now that I am actually smack-dab in the middle of my own third act, I realize I've never been happier. I have such a powerful feeling of well-being. And I've discovered that when you're inside oldness, as opposed to looking at it from the outside, fear subsides. You realize you're still yourself — maybe even more so. Picasso once said, ""It takes a long time to become young."" (Laughter) I don't want to romanticize aging. Obviously, there's no guarantee that it can be a time of fruition and growth. Some of it is a matter of luck. Some of it, obviously, is genetic. One third of it, in fact, is genetic. And there isn't much we can do about that. But that means that two-thirds of how well we do in the third act, we can do something about. We're going to discuss what we can do to make these added years really successful, and use them to make a difference. Now, let me say something about the staircase, which may seem like an odd metaphor for seniors, given the fact that many seniors are challenged by stairs. (Laughter) Myself included. As you may know, the entire world operates on a universal law: entropy, the second law of thermodynamics. Entropy means that everything in the world — everything — is in a state of decline and decay — the arch. There's only one exception to this universal law, and that is the human spirit, which can continue to evolve upwards, the staircase, bringing us into wholeness, authenticity, and wisdom. And here's an example of what I mean. This upward ascension can happen even in the face of extreme physical challenges. About three years ago, I read an article in the New York Times. It was about a man named Neil Selinger — 57 years old, a retired lawyer, who had joined the writers' group at Sarah Lawrence, where he found his writer's voice. Two years later, he was diagnosed with ALS, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. It's a terrible disease. It's fatal. It wastes the body, but the mind remains intact. In this article, Mr. Selinger wrote the following to describe what was happening to him. And I quote: ""As my muscles weakened, my writing became stronger. As I slowly lost my speech, I gained my voice. As I diminished, I grew. As I lost so much, I finally started to find myself."" Neil Selinger, to me, is the embodiment of mounting the staircase in his third act. Now we're all born with spirit, all of us, but sometimes it gets tamped down beneath the challenges of life, violence, abuse, neglect. Perhaps our parents suffered from depression. Perhaps they weren't able to love us beyond how we performed in the world. Perhaps we still suffer from a psychic pain, a wound. Perhaps we feel that many of our relationships have not had closure. And so we can feel unfinished. Perhaps the task of the third act is to finish up the task of finishing ourselves. For me, it began as I was approaching my third act, my 60th birthday. How was I supposed to live it? What was I supposed to accomplish in this final act? And I realized that, in order to know where I was going, I had to know where I'd been. And so I went back and I studied my first two acts, trying to see who I was then, who I really was, not who my parents or other people told me I was, or treated me like I was. But who was I? Who were my parents — not as parents, but as people? Who were my grandparents? How did they treat my parents? These kinds of things. I discovered, a couple of years later, that this process that I had gone through is called by psychologists ""doing a life review."" And they say it can give new significance and clarity and meaning to a person's life. You may discover, as I did, that a lot of things that you used to think were your fault, a lot of things you used to think about yourself, really had nothing to do with you. It wasn't your fault; you're just fine. And you're able to go back and forgive them. And forgive yourself. You're able to free yourself from your past. You can work to change your relationship to your past. Now while I was writing about this, I came upon a book called ""Man's Search for Meaning"" by Viktor Frankl. Viktor Frankl was a German psychiatrist who'd spent five years in a Nazi concentration camp. And he wrote that, while he was in the camp, he could tell, should they ever be released, which of the people would be OK, and which would not. And he wrote this: ""Everything you have in life can be taken from you except one thing: your freedom to choose how you will respond to the situation. This is what determines the quality of the life we've lived — not whether we've been rich or poor, famous or unknown, healthy or suffering. What determines our quality of life is how we relate to these realities, what kind of meaning we assign them, what kind of attitude we cling to about them, what state of mind we allow them to trigger."" Perhaps the central purpose of the third act is to go back and to try, if appropriate, to change our relationship to the past. It turns out that cognitive research shows when we are able to do this, it manifests neurologically — neural pathways are created in the brain. You see, if you have, over time, reacted negatively to past events and people, neural pathways are laid down by chemical and electrical signals that are sent through the brain. And over time, these neural pathways become hardwired. They become the norm — even if it's bad for us, because it causes us stress and anxiety. If, however, we can go back and alter our relationship, re-vision our relationship to past people and events, neural pathways can change. And if we can maintain the more positive feelings about the past, that becomes the new norm. It's like resetting a thermostat. It's not having experiences that makes us wise. It's reflecting on the experiences that we've had that makes us wise and that helps us become whole, brings wisdom and authenticity. It helps us become what we might have been. Women start off whole, don't we? I mean, as girls, we're feisty — ""Yeah? Who says?"" (Laughter) We have agency. We are the subjects of our own lives. But very often, many, if not most of us, when we hit puberty, we start worrying about fitting in and being popular. And we become the subjects and objects of other people's lives. But now, in our third acts, it may be possible for us to circle back to where we started, and know it for the first time. And if we can do that, it will not just be for ourselves. Older women are the largest demographic in the world. If we can go back and redefine ourselves and become whole, this will create a cultural shift in the world, and it will give an example to younger generations so that they can reconceive their own lifespan. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"上一世紀中發生了許多革命性的事情，但或許沒有""長壽革命""要來的意義非凡。我們現今的平均壽命比我們的曾祖父母多34年。想想看。這是我們壽命中增加的第二段成人期。然而,重點來了，我們的文化卻尚未意識到它所代表的涵意。我們仍然照著舊式生命拱形曲線而生活著。這是比喻，舊的比喻。我們出生，在中年進入高峰然後曲線下降到衰老期。♪笑聲♪老化是跟著病理學曲線而行的。 但現今有許多人﹣哲學家、藝術家、醫生、科學家﹣對我所謂的”生命的第三幕“，也就是生命中最後的30年有了新的看法。他們認為它事實上是別具意義的一段人生發展階段 —從中年時期到後30年的發展，就有如從兒童時期到青少年時期般的不同。他們因而提出了疑問﹣我們應該也要想想﹣要如何運用這時光？該如何活的有意義呢？”老化“一詞應重新定義為何呢？ 去年我一直在研究及撰寫這個議題。我找到較適合代替”老化“的新比喻﹣就是爬樓梯﹣那象徵人類精神的提昇，也就是帶領我們朝向智慧、完整及真實的精神提昇。老化不是病理學的名詞，老化是具潛質的。你們知道嗎？這樣的潛質不是少數人才有。我發現，大部分年過50的人自我感覺較良好、較少有壓力感、較友善、比較沒有焦慮感。面對事情的態度大多見怪不怪。有些研究甚至指出我們是比較快樂的。 相信我，這樣的結論跟我原先預期的不同。我曾經焦慮了好長一段時間。在我快50歲的時候早上醒來腦中浮現的前六個想法都是負面的。我因而感到恐懼。我想著＂天啊，我快變成思想怪異的老女人了。現在我正處於生命的第三章，我卻快樂的不得了。我感到非常的安穩。而我發現，當我們的內在，相對於從外表來看也相對”陳年""了，恐懼感也會跟著消失。最後會發現，你還是你﹣也可能因而更了解自己。畢卡索曾說＂經歷歲月後才能變年輕＂。 ♪笑聲♪ 我不是要將衰老浪漫化。當然，要開花結果可不是必然的。有些是因為幸運。有些很明顯的是因為遺傳。事實上三分之一的原因是遺傳。我們可以控制的因素不多。但生命尾章三分之二的部分確是我們可以好好掌控的。接下來我們將會討論要如何善用這些來年來造就不凡。 讓我來說說“爬樓梯”這件事，這個比喻對於上樓梯有困難的長者或許是個奇怪的比喻。♪笑♪我自己也是。大家都知道世界都是以不變的定律來運作：熵，熱力學第二定律。熵的意思是，世界上所有物質都以下降、衰退的狀態呈現，那就是生命曲線。只有一件事是是例外﹣人類的精神，可以持續的向上昇華﹣﹣就如同階梯﹣﹣帶領我們趨向完整、真實及智慧的階梯。 舉個例子來說明我的比喻。在面臨極度肢體障礙時，精神仍就可以向上昇華。三年前我從紐約時代上讀到一篇文章。那是關於一位名為尼爾 施林格—57歲的退休律師的故事—他在加入莎拉勞倫斯學院的寫作班中發現自己的寫作天分。二年後他被診斷出肌萎縮性側索硬化症（盧伽雷氏病）。那是個很恐怖且致命性的疾病。疾病衰弱他的身體，但沒有侵犯到他的心智。在那篇文章中，施林格先生將他患病的歴程做了描述。我在此引述他的一段話：「肌肉雖然漸行衰弱，但我文風漸行強健。說話能力雖然漸漸尚矢，但我表達因而變得敏銳。雖然身形憔悴，但我心靈得以依舊成長。因為喪失太多，我終究開啟自我心靈的探索。」對我來說，尼爾 施林格是在其生命的第三幕登上階梯的具體代表。 靈性是與生俱來的,但有時我們的心靈會因生活上遭遇的困境、暴力、傷害、疏忽而受打壓。也許是我們抑鬱寡歡的父母親影響了我們。也許是他們論功行賞的主義作祟而不能愛我們。也許我們仍遭受於心靈痛苦、創傷。或許我們覺得多數我們與他人的關係並未結束。我們因而感到還有希望。或許生命的第三幕的任務是去完成我們未完成的任務。 對我而言，我是在邁入生命的第三幕、60歲生日時才開始想這個問題。我要怎麼渡過這第三幕呢？我應該完成什麼任務呢？我領悟到，為了知道要走的方向，我必需了解曾經走過的歲月。所以我回想60歲之前的我是個什麼樣的人呢?我以前到底是什麼樣的人—不是在父母或他人眼中的我、或是被討好那一面的我。而是我自己到底是誰？我的父母親是誰-除了父母的身分之外，他們還是什麼樣的人？我的祖父母又是什麼樣的人呢？他們是如何養育我父母的呢？我想的是這些事情。 幾年後我才知道，原來我用的方法是心理學家稱之為＂回顧人生＂法。他們說用這個方法可以使人對人生產生新定義、清晰其思慮。你們會跟我一樣發現，你以前認為是自己的錯、是自己造成的結果的很多事情，其實都不是自己的問題。那不是你的錯，跟你沒關係。因此，回頭來你能夠去原諒別人及自己。你能夠走出過去的陰霾。得以改變過去對自己造成的影響。 當我在為這個議題下筆時，我想到了一本由弗蘭克博士寫的＂活出意義來＂這本書。弗蘭克博士是一位德國的心理學家，他曾在納粹集中營渡過5年的時間。他在集中營時寫道，假使有天這些人被放了出去，他可以分辨得出來，誰心理可以調適正常，而誰熬不過去。他寫道：「我們生命中所擁有的都可以被奪去，唯有一件事是搶不走的，那就是你可以自由決定以什麼樣的心態去面對遭遇。心態是生活品質好壞的關鍵—不論是富有或貧窮、名人或平凡人、健康或因病而痛苦的。決定我們生活品質的是我們如何看待事情、我們賦予該事件什麼樣的意義、我們對該事件抱持什麼樣的態度、我們讓該事件誘發什麼樣的情緒。」 也許生命尾章的中心目的是回到過去，如果適當的話，並嘗試改變自己與過往的關係。認知研究發現當我們這麼做的時候，大腦中的神經活動會特別顯著 -也就是說神經傳導路徑會在大腦生成。所以如果你一直對過往的人事物是抱持著負面的態度，由大腦傳遞出的化學及電子訊息鋪設而成的神經傳導路徑長久下來就會變成固定的模式。形成標準路徑—儘管它造成緊張跟焦慮對我們有害 然而如果我們回顧並改變我們對過往人事物的觀感，神經傳導的路徑就會改變。如果我們能持續的對過去抱持越正面的觀感，那麼神經傳導的路徑就會形成新的的模式。就好像重設恆溫器一樣。經驗並不會使我們變聰明，如何看待經驗才是智慧—它讓我們變得健全完整、有智慧並回歸自我。藉此讓我們回歸到初衷。 我們女性的本性善良,不是嗎?我的意思是, 在我們還是小女孩時,我們都很活潑—＂哼，誰說的?＂我們果敢。我們是自己生命中的主角。然而往往很多人在青春期時，就開始擔心融入群體及是否受歡迎的問題。於是我們變成了為別人而活。但現在，在我們的生命的第三幕裡，我們也許可以繞回到起點重新認識。如果我們做得到，受益的不只是我們。高齡婦女的人口數是世界上最多的。倘若我們能回顧並重新定義自己成為健全的人士，那麼就能夠創造出文化變遷，那將會為年輕一代樹立新典範，新一代得以重新定義其生命的長度。 感謝各位的聆聽。 ♪掌聲♪"
