Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_goodall_at_tedglobal_07	"Good afternoon, good evening, whatever. We can go, jambo, guten Abend, bonsoir, but we can also ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. That is the call that chimpanzees make before they go to sleep in the evening. You hear it going from one side of the valley to the other, from one group of nests to the next. And I want to pick up with my talk this evening from where Zeray left off yesterday. He was talking about this amazing, three-year-old Australopithecine child, Selam. And we've also been hearing about the history, the family tree, of mankind through DNA genetic profiling. And it was a paleontologist, the late Louis Leakey, who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees. And it was pretty extraordinary, way back then. It's kind of commonplace now, but his argument was — because he'd been searching for the fossilized remains of early humans in Africa. And you can tell an awful lot about what those beings looked like from the fossils, from the shape of the muscle attachments, something about the way they lived from the various artifacts found with them. But what about how they behaved? That's what he wanted to know. And of course, behavior doesn't fossilize. He argued — and it's now a fairly common theory — that if we found behavior patterns similar or the same in our closest living relatives, the great apes, and humans today, then maybe those behaviors were present in the ape-like, human-like ancestor some seven million years ago. And therefore, perhaps we had brought those characteristics with us from that ancient, ancient past. Well, if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution, you very often find people speculating about how early humans may have behaved, based on the behavior of chimpanzees. They are more like us than any other living creature, and we've heard about that during this TED Conference. So it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzees are so like us, in certain aspects of their behavior. Every chimpanzee has his or her own personality. Of course, I gave them names. They can live to be 60 years or more, although we think most of them probably don't make it to 60 in the wild. Mr. Wurzel. The female has her first baby when she's 11 or 12. Thereafter, she has one baby only every five or six years, a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing, sleeping with the mother at night, and riding on her back. And we believe that this long period of childhood is important for chimpanzees, just as it is for us, in relation to learning. As the brain becomes ever more complex during evolution in different forms of animals, so we find that learning plays an ever more important role in an individual's life history. And young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do. We know now that they're capable of imitating behaviors that they see. And we believe that it's in this way that the different tool-using behaviors — that have now been seen in all the different chimpanzee populations studied in Africa — how these are passed from one generation to the next, through observation, imitation and practice, so that we can describe these tool-using behaviors as primitive culture. Chimpanzees don't have a spoken language. We've talked about that. They do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures, many of which are similar, or even identical, to ours and formed in the same context. Greeting chimpanzees embracing. They also kiss, hold hands, pat one another on the back. And they swagger and they throw rocks. In chimpanzee society, we find many, many examples of compassion, precursors to love and true altruism. Unfortunately, they, like us, have a dark side to their nature. They're capable of extreme brutality, even a kind of primitive war. And these really aggressive behaviors, for the most part, are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group. They are very territorially aggressive. Chimpanzees, I believe, more than any other living creature, have helped us to understand that, after all, there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom. It's a very blurry line, and it's getting more blurry all the time as we make even more observations. The study that I began in 1960 is still continuing to this day. And these chimpanzees, living their complex social lives in the wild, have helped — more than anything else — to make us realize we are part of, and not separated from, the amazing animals with whom we share the planet. So it's pretty sad to find that chimpanzees, like so many other creatures around the world, are losing their habitats. This is just one photograph from the air, and it shows you the forested highlands of Gombe. And it was when I flew over the whole area, about 16 years ago, and realized that outside the park, this forest, which in 1960 had stretched almost unbroken along the eastern shore of Lake Tanganyika, which is where the tiny, 30-square-mile Gombe National Park lies, that a question came to my mind. ""How can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees, when the people living around the National Park are struggling to survive?"" More people are living there than the land could possibly support. The numbers increased by refugees pouring in from Burundi and over the lake from Congo. And very poor people — they couldn't afford to buy food from elsewhere. This led to a program, which we call TACARE. It's a very holistic way of improving the lives of the people living in the villages around the park. It started small with 12 villages. It's now in 24. There isn't time to go into it, but it's including things like tree nurseries, methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded, almost desert-like land up in these mountains. Ways of controlling, preventing soil erosion. Ways of reclaiming overused farmland, so that within two years they can again be productive. Working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells. Perhaps build some schoolrooms. Most important of all, I believe, is working with small groups of women, providing them with opportunities for micro-credit loans. And we've got, as is the case around the world, about 95 percent of all loans returned. Empowering women, working with education, providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school, in the clear understanding that, all around the world, as women's education improves, family size drops. We provide information about family planning and about HIV/AIDS. And as a result of this program, something's happening for conservation. What's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages, instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys — and by the way, many of the staff are now Tanzanian — but when we began the TACARE program, it was a Tanzanian team going into the villages. It was a Tanzanian team talking to the villagers, asking what they were interested in. Were they interested in conservation? Absolutely not. They were interested in health; they were interested in education. And as time went on, and as their situation began to improve, they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation. They began to understand that as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees, so you've got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides. Today, we are developing what we call the Greater Gombe Ecosystem. This is an area way outside the National Park, stretching out into all these very degraded lands. And as these villages have a better standard of life, they are actually agreeing to put between 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside, so that once again, as the trees grow back, the chimpanzees will have leafy corridors through which they can travel to interact — as they must for genetic viability — with other remnant groups outside the National Park. So TACARE is a success. We're replicating it in other parts of Africa, around other wilderness areas which are faced with extreme population pressure. The problems in Africa, however, as we've been discussing for the whole of these first couple of days of TED, are major problems. There is a great deal of poverty. And when you get large numbers of people living in land that is not that fertile, particularly when you cut down trees, and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion, as desperate populations cut down more and more trees, so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families, what's going to happen? Something's got to give. And the other problems — in not only Africa, but the rest of the developing world and, indeed, everywhere — what are we doing to our planet? You know, the famous scientist, E. O. Wilson said that if every person on this planet attains the standard of living of the average European or American, we need three new planets. Today, they are saying four. But we don't have them. We've got one. And what's happened? I mean, the question here is, here we are, arguably the most intelligent being that's ever walked planet Earth, with this extraordinary brain, capable of the kind of technology that is so well illustrated by these TED Conferences, and yet we're destroying the only home we have. The indigenous people around the world, before they made a major decision, used to sit around and ask themselves, ""How does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead?"" Today, major decisions — and I'm not particularly talking about Africa here, but the developed world — major decisions involving millions of dollars, and millions of people, are often based on, ""How will this affect the next shareholders' meeting?"" And these decisions affect Africa. As I began traveling around Africa talking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests, I realized more and more how so many of Africa's problems could be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation. So I began traveling outside Africa, talking in Europe, talking in the United States, going to Asia. And everywhere there were these terrible problems. And you know the kind I'm talking about. I'm talking about pollution. The air that we breathe that often poisons us. The earth is poisoning our foods. The water — water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century — and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural, industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world, seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience. The mangroves are being cut down; the effects of things like the tsunami get worse. We've talked about the soil erosion. We have the reckless burning of fossil fuels along with other greenhouse gasses, so called, leading to climate change. Finally, all around the world, people have begun to believe that there is something going on very wrong with our climate. All around the world climates are mixed up. And it's the poor people who are affected worse. It's Africa that already is affected. In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the droughts are so much worse. And when the rain does come, it so often leads to flooding and added distress, and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease. And the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support, who are too poor to buy food, who can't move away because the whole land is degraded. And so you get desertification — creeping, creeping, creeping — as the last of the trees are cut down. And this kind of thing is not just in Africa. It's all over the world. So it wasn't surprising to me that as I was traveling around the world I met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope. We seem to have lost wisdom, the wisdom of the indigenous people. I asked a question. ""Why?"" Well, do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain, the kind of brain that the TED technologies exemplify, and the human heart? Talking about it in the non-scientific term, in terms of love and compassion. Is there some disconnect? And these young people, when I talk to them, basically they were either depressed or apathetic, or bitter and angry. And they said more or less the same thing, ""We feel this way because we feel you've compromised our future and there's nothing we can do about it."" We have compromised their future. I've got three little grandchildren, and every time I look at them and I think how we've harmed this beautiful planet since I was their age, I feel this desperation. And that led to this program we call Roots and Shoots, which began right here in Tanzania and has now spread to 97 countries around the world. It's symbolic. Roots make a firm foundation. Shoots seem tiny; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall. See the brick wall as all these problems we've inflicted on the planet, environmental and social. It's a message of hope. Hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things. The most important message of Roots and Shoots: every single one of us makes a difference, every single day. We have a choice. Every one of us in this room, we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make. The very poor have no choice. It's up to us to change things so that the poor have choice as well. The Roots and Shoots groups all choose three projects. It depends on how old they are, and which country, whether they're in a city or rural, as to what kinds of projects. But basically, we have programs now from preschool right through university, with more and more adults starting their own Roots and Shoots groups. And every group chooses, between them, three different kinds of project to make this a better world, recognizing that all these different problems are interconnected and impinge on each other. So one of their projects will be to help their own human community. And then, if they're able, they may raise money to help communities in other parts of the world. One of their projects will be to help animals — not just wildlife, domestic animals as well. And one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share. And woven throughout all of this is a message of learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves, in our families, in our communities, between nations, between cultures, between religions and between us and the natural world. We need the natural world. We cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are. We not do have more than this one planet. Just picking one or two of the projects right here in Africa that the Roots and Shoots groups are doing, one or two projects only — in Tanzania, in Uganda, Kenya, South Africa, Congo-Brazzaville, Sierra Leone, Cameroon and other groups. And as I say, it's in 97 countries around the world. Of course, they're planting trees. They're growing organic vegetables. They're working in the refugee camps, with chickens and selling the eggs for a little amount of money, or just using them to feed their families, and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment, because they're no longer helpless and depending on others with their vegetables and their chickens. It's being used in Uganda to give some psychological help to ex-child soldiers. Doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves. Once again, they're useful members of society. We have this program in prisons as well. So, there's no time for more Roots and Shoots now. But — oh, they're also working on HIV/AIDS. That's a very important component of Roots and Shoots, with older kids talking to younger ones. And unwanted pregnancies and things like that, which young people listen to better from other youth, rather than adults. Hope. That's the question I get asked as I'm going around the world: ""Jane, you've seen so many terrible things, you've seen your chimpanzees decrease in number from about one million, at the turn of the century, to no more than 150,000 now, and the same with so many other animals. Forests disappearing, deserts where once there was forest. Do you really have hope?"" Well, yes. You can't come to a conference like TED and not have hope, can you? And of course, there's hope. One is this amazing human brain. And I mean, think of the technologies. And I've just been so thrilled, finally, to come to people talking about compost latrines. It's one of my hobbyhorses. We just flush all this water down the lavatory, it's terrible. And then talking about renewable energy — desperately important. Do we care about the planet for our children? How many of us have children or grandchildren, nieces, nephews? Do we care about their future? And if we care about their future, we, as the elite around the world, we can do something about it. We can make choices as to how we live each day. What we buy. What we wear. And choose to make these choices with the question, how will this affect the environment around me? How will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up? Or my grandchild, or whatever it is. So the human brain, coupled with the human heart, and we join hands around the world. And that's what TED is helping so well with, and Google who help us, and Esri are helping us with mapping in Gombe National Park. All of these technologies we can use. Now let's link them, and it's beginning to happen, isn't it? You've heard about it this afternoon. It's beginning to happen. This change, this change. To see change that we must have if we care about the future. And the next reason for hope — nature is amazingly resilient. You can take an area that's absolutely destroyed, with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate. And an example is the TACARE program. I told you, where a seemingly dead tree stump — if you stop hacking them for firewood, which you don't need to because you have wood lots, then in five years you can have a 30-foot tree. And animals, almost on the brink of extinction, can be given a second chance. That's my next book. It's inspiring. And it brings me to my last category of hope, and we've heard about this so much in the last two days: this indomitable human spirit. This determination of people, the resilience of the human spirit, So that people who you would think would be battered by poverty, or disease, or whatever, can pull themselves up out of it, sometimes with a helping hand, and take their part in society, and take their part in changing the world. And just to think of one or two people out of Africa who are just really inspiring. We could make a very long list, but obviously Nelson Mandela, emerging from 17 years of hard physical labor, 23 years of imprisonment, with this amazing ability to forgive, so that he could lead his nation out the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath. Ken Saro-Wiwa, in Nigeria, who took on the giant oil companies, and although people around the world tried their best, was executed. People like this are so inspirational. People like this are the role models we need for young Africans. And we need some environmental role models as well, and I've been hearing some of them today. So I'm really grateful for this opportunity to share this message again, with everyone at TED. And I hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things, especially the Roots and Shoots program. And just a last word on that — the young woman who's running this entire conference center, I met her today. She came up so excited, with her certificate. She was [in] Roots and Shoots. She was in the leadership in Dar es Salaam. She said it's helped her to do what she's doing. And it was very, very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people, when they are empowered, given the opportunity to take action, to make the world a better place, truly are our hope for tomorrow. Thank you. (Applause)"	"午安，晚安，或者我們可以這樣說，晚安(東非語)，晚安(德語)，晚安(法語)但我們也可以 ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh這是黑猩猩的叫聲在晚上他們要去睡覺前你可以聽到叫聲由這個山谷的這端傳到另一端從這一窩黑猩猩傳到下一窩黑猩猩 我今晚的演說要接著從昨天理拉(Zeray)談到的地方開始。他談論到關於這個神奇的三歲靈長類小孩 – 西蘭(Selam)你們也曾聽過透過基因輪廓比對而認識到的人類歷史、與族譜圖已故的古生物學者路易思.李奇(Louis Leakey)是他引領我走上研究黑猩猩之路在那個時代，此種研究方法是相當特殊的。現在則已經是廣為接受的做法但他最想知道的是，因為他曾持續研究非洲早期人類的化石從化石你可以推敲出非常多的事比如從這些化石看出他們的長相或者從那些肌肉衍生物的形狀上來看出長相從一起出土的各式的手製器具去觀察去猜他們生存的方式但是他們的行為呢? 這是他想知道的當然行為從化石之中是看不出來的當時他提出一個現在已經被普遍接受的論點如果我們能在現存與我們最接近的遠親—人猿身上找到與今日人類一樣或類似的行為模式也許這些行為就會被表現在七百萬年前當時的人猿或者我們的祖先身上因此，也許這些特質已經一路從古代就跟著我們到現在 好的，假如你看了今日談及人類進化的教科書你會經常看到人們依據黑猩猩的行為模式來推測早期人類的行為他們是如此地與我們相似，勝過其它任何的生物在這場TED會議之前我們都已經知道了所以我要接續這個論點來討論黑猩猩在某些方面是多麼地與我們相似 每一隻黑猩猩都有他或者她獨特的個性。當然，我會給牠們取名字。牠們可以活到六十歲或者更久僅管我們不認為大部份的牠們可以在野外生存至六十歲這是瓦力(Wurzel)。在母黑猩猩十一或十二歲之時便會生下牠第一個小孩在那之後每五到六年期間她不會再生小孩當小黑猩猩攝取母乳時，那是一段長時間的孩童依賴期，晚上與小黑猩猩睡在一起、讓小黑猩猩騎在背上。我們相信這段長時間的孩童依賴期對黑猩猩非常的重要，就與我們人類一樣, 因為這與學習有關。當大腦在生物不同的演化時期持續地變得更為複雜我們發現""學習""在獨立個體的生命歷史裡扮演著越來越重要的角色年輕的黑猩猩花很多時間觀察長輩的行為。我們現在知道牠們有能力模仿他們看到的行為。並且我們相信這就是為什麼我們會在不同的非洲黑猩猩族群裡看到不同的使用工具的方式—也正是透過觀察、模仿與嘗試這些行為這些技能得以一代代地傳下去所以我們就能夠推斷這些使用工具的行為是源自於遠古文化。 黑猩猩們沒有口說的語言。我們曾經說過這件事。但他們擁有非常豐富的肢體語言其中有許多跟我們類似甚至一模一樣的肢體語言而且跟我們認識的意義相同。比方用擁抱來歡迎對方。他們也會互相親吻對方、握手、拍另一個黑猩猩的背。他們也會傲慢囂張，也會亂扔石頭。在黑猩猩的社會之中，我們可以發現許多許多的例子是基於同理心、由愛出發的體貼以及真正的利他行為。不幸的是，就像我們人類一樣，牠們也有天生的黑暗面。牠們可以非常地殘暴，就像原始的鬥爭行為。而這些非常激烈的行為，大部分來說，都是源於與鄰近社群的對抗。牠們有非常強烈的地域觀念。我相信黑猩猩們，比起其它的生物，已經讓我們認識到，我們與動物世界之間並沒有一條明顯的界線。 這條界線其實非常的模糊，而且在我們做了更多的觀察之後它變得甚至更加的模糊。從1960年起到現在我一直持續著這些研究。而這些生活在野外的複雜社會關係中的黑猩猩們，幫助我們去認識到 — 比任何方面都還要多 —我們也是這些令人驚嘆的動物的一分子，絕非孤身於外，同時去了解到這個星球，是我們與這些動物一起共享的。所以我們非常感慨地發現這些黑猩猩們就像許多這世上的生物們一樣，正在喪失牠們的棲息地。這是一張由空中拍攝的照片，照片上我們看到岡貝(Gombe)那樹木叢生的高地。而這是我十六年前飛越這個區域時的風景，同時我看到在這個國家公園之外的這片森林，曾經在西元1960年時還完好無缺地綿延著就順著坦岡易科(Tanganyika)湖東面邊緣，而它也就是這個小小的，30平方公里的岡貝國家公園所在之處。這時我突然想到一個問題”我們應該如何拯救這些瀕臨滅絕的黑猩猩們，當居住在國家公園附近的人民正為了生存而苦苦掙扎時?""過多的人們居住在這片有限的土地上。♪持續增加的難民們如洪水般的由蒲隆地(Burundi)湧入同時也從湖的另一邊剛果(Congo)遷徙而來。他們是一群非常貧窮的人們，窮到無法購買食物。 這讓我們開始了計畫，這個計畫我們稱它為坦尚尼亞造林計劃(Take Care)它是以綜合而全面的方式來協助與改善在國家公園附近村莊的人們的生活。開始的計畫是小規模的在十二個村莊展開。現在擴展到24個村莊。時間不夠讓我詳細說明這個計畫，簡單說來它包含了這幾個重點，比如樹木的保育，還有一些適合在被過度開墾使用而使土地貧瘠到像沙漠一樣的山上種植農作物的方法。控制與預防土壤流失的方法。收回過渡開發的農地，讓其休養生息，而在兩年之後能重新生產作物。協助村民們從井裡能取得乾淨的水源。或許建造一些校舍。更重要的是，我們相信去和一些婦女們合作提供她們取得微型貸款的機會。而經驗告訴我們，正如同這世界上的其它例子，大約百分之九十五的這些貸款都會歸還。藉由受教育的機會，給予這些需要負擔家計的婦女力量，透過獎學金幫助這些女孩們能完成中學的教育，透過全世界的經驗我們瞭解到提升對於女性的教育能使家庭組織縮小。我們並提供家庭規劃與愛滋病等知識。 這個計畫還培養了當地人對自然保育的觀念。這些由這24個村莊的農民自發地去做的保育行為不再只是看到我們這一夥白種人為了研究那一夥猴子而來 —附帶一提，我們現在坦尚尼亞的團隊有許多是當地人，在我們開始坦尚尼亞造林計劃時，是這些坦尚尼亞人進到這些村莊，是這些坦尚尼亞人去和村民對話，問他們需要什麼。他們對保育感興趣嗎? 當然不。他們對他們的健康還有教育感到興趣。隨著時間過去，他們的狀況開始改善，他們開始認識保育的重要性。他們開始瞭解山坡地的濫墾濫伐將會為他們帶來這些麻煩的土壤流失與土石流。 今天，他們開始發展這些被他們稱為全區岡貝溪(Gombe)生態系統。這些區域遠大於國家公園的範圍，並延升至所有為數廣大的因過度開墾而貧瘠的土地上。當這些村落擁有更好的生活條件時，他們也完全同意將百分之十到二十的高地邊緣的土地保留不做開發因此再一次的讓樹木長回好讓黑猩猩們能透過這些茂盛的生態走廊去遷移旅行至國家公園外圍如此牠們能為了基因的多樣性與其它存留下來的黑猩猩群交流繁衍。坦尚尼亞造林計劃是成功的。我們並將這樣的計畫複製到非洲的其它區域，其它野生的區域但有同樣人口成長壓力的地方。 這樣的問題在非洲，不管如何，正如這前面幾天我們一直在TED會議中所討論過的，是最主要的問題。貧窮的問題非常非常嚴重。當許多人們生活在並不是很肥沃的土地之上，特別是當你砍掉樹木，而當土壤失去保護而受風的侵蝕，當絕望的人們砍掉越來越多的樹木一切只為了種植作物讓自己和家人有食物可吃事情會變得怎樣呢? 免不得要為此付出代價。而另外的問題是，不只是在非洲，而是在全世界的許多發展中的國家，到處都一樣。我們對自己的星球做了甚麼事呢?你知道的，著名的科學家，愛德華.威爾森(E.O. Wilson)曾說過假如每個人都過著與歐洲人與美國人相同的生活水準，那我們需要三個新的地球。如今變成四個。但是我們並沒有別的地方可去。我們只擁有一個地球。 那會發生甚麼事呢? 我的意思是，這個問題在這會變成甚麼，這裡聚集了可以說是最聰明且走遍世界角落的人類，擁有最傑出的頭腦，精通各種科技新知在一次次的TED會議中，我們都一而再地見證這個事實。但我們仍然朝著毀滅我們的家園而行。全世界各地的人們在他們做下重大的決定之前，曾坐在一起討論這樣的問題:“在做這些決定前是否會影響我們七代之後的子孫們”今天，重大的決定，這邊我並不是指只局限非洲大陸，而是世界上任一個已開發的國家們，重大的決定通常牽涉到數百萬的金錢，數百萬的人們，但這些決定卻大多取決於”這將會怎麼影響著下一次的股東會議?”而這些決定確實地影響著非洲的命運。 當我開始在非洲各處旅行並到處說明黑猩猩面臨的問題，與他們棲息的森林急遽減少的問題，我瞭解到更多處在非洲本身的問題可說是之前殖民時代剝削的結果。所以我開始在非洲之外旅行，到歐洲演說再到美國乃至於亞洲去演說。而到處都有一樣麻煩而棘手的問題。你們知道我說哪種問題。我說的是各種各樣的污染 —我們所呼吸的空氣毒害著我們。大地正在毒害著我們的作物。水資源，水也許是其中一個對我們這世紀來說所面對的最嚴峻的課題。世界各地的水正在被污染著，這些污染來自全世界被各種的農業、工業和家庭使用的化學物，並且它們持續地被散播至全世界似乎人類就是沒辦法從經驗學到教訓。紅樹林被砍伐，結果是海嘯造成更大的破壞。我們曾說過土壤的流失問題。我們不計後果的燃燒著石化燃料造成溫室氣體，導致我們說的溫室效應與氣候劇變。最後，全世界的人們開始相信有一些事正在發生，比如錯亂的氣候。 全世界的氣候失去原有的規律，變得一團混沌。其中受影響最惡的就是窮人了在非洲這已經看得到這樣的影響了。在撒哈拉以南的非洲乾旱變的更加糟糕。終於等到下雨時，它卻常導致洪水♪雪上加霜的還有，這些貧窮與災荒和疾病的惡性循環。為數眾多的人生活在過度飽和的土地上，他們貧窮到無法購買食物，他們也沒有別的地方可去，因為土地都已經因過度開發而貧瘠。所以造成不間斷地土地沙漠化，而這正發生在下一棵樹木又被砍倒之時。這樣的事件並不只發生在非洲。在全世界都發生著。 所以以下的事實，我一點也不吃驚，當我走訪世界各地時我遇到許多失去希望的青年朋友們。我們看起來似乎失去了智慧，失去那在地的智識。我問到，”為甚麼?”是的，你們可曾想過那樣巨大的落差存在於這些傑出的人才，這些在TED裡被舉例的人才，與人心所向的差異? 讓我們用不是那麼科學的方式來說吧。特別是從愛與慈悲出發，你們看到這些落差了嗎?這些年青朋友，當我跟他們說，他們是那樣的沮喪或者漠不關心，或痛苦和忿怒。或多或少他們都說了相同的事，""我們會這樣想是因為覺得你們一直在消費我們的未來而我們根本無能為力"" 我們一直在消費他們的未來。我有三個小孫子，每一次我看著他們時我就會想到在我還那麼小時，我們已經開始傷害這個美麗的星球，我感受到他們的絕望。這也讓我開始了我稱為根與芽(Roots and Shoots)的計畫，這計畫開始於坦尚尼亞而現在也擴及全世界97個國家。它有象徵性的意義。根代表著穩固的基礎。芽看起來似乎很微小，但為了得到陽光的滋潤它們可以穿過堅硬的磚牆，這些磚牆就好比現在地球上所面臨的嚴峻問題。既是環保問題也是社會問題。這個計畫帶來希望的曙光。讓在全世界數以千計、萬計的年輕朋友可以突破這困境並且讓我們生存的環境更加美好。”根與芽”計畫所傳達最重要的訊息是我們每一個人都可以在每一天裡做出改變我們是有選擇權的人。每一個在這間會議室的人，我們都是，我們都有得選擇，當我們想要一些改變的時候。而這些非常貧窮的人沒得選擇。他們的未來端看我們是否能做出改變來讓窮人也有選擇的權利。 根與芽計畫團隊們各選出三個計劃。這些計畫取決於他們年齡多大，他們在哪個國家不管是鄉村或者城市，哪種計劃內容。但是基本上，我們有從幼稚園到大學都涵蓋到的各種計畫，有越來越多的成人也開始著屬於他們的根與芽的計劃。每一個團隊各選擇三個讓世界更美好的不同計畫，這些計畫讓大家認知到了不同的問題正在互相地糾結著並共同地衝擊著我們。所以這其中之一的計畫都將幫助他們的社區變得更好。然後，假如他們行有餘力，他們也能籌募金錢來幫助世界上的其他地方。他們的其中一個計畫是幫助動物們，不只是野生的動物們也包括家畜類的動物。另外一個計畫是去幫助這個我們所共有的環境。而把這些串連起來的就是一個簡單的訊息讓我們學習以和平與和諧的方式去和自己、和我們的家庭、和我們的社區、國家與國家、文化與文化之間、和各個宗教之間、與這個自然界之間好好地相處我們需要自然世界。我們不能再以之前的速度破壞大自然。我們只有一個地球。 只要看看一個或兩個這些計畫在位於非洲的根與芽的團體之內，任何這些團體正在進行的一或兩個計畫，在坦尚尼亞， 烏剛達(Uganda)，肯亞(Kenya)，南非(South Africa)，剛果(Congo)，布拉崗(Brazzaville)，獅子山(Sierra Leone)，喀麥隆(Cameroon)和其它的團體們。如我說的，目前有97個國家在持續進行這些計畫。當然，他們種植新的樹木，他們培育有機蔬菜。他們在難民營中工作，他們利用賣的雞蛋與雞隻的一點點金錢，利用這些來餵飽他們的家人，讓他們感到自豪和自我肯定因為他們從此能自力更生且不再依賴別人透過他們種植的蔬菜與雞隻們。在烏干達(Uganda)也在心理上幫助了一些之前是童兵的小孩們。從事這些計畫能讓他們找回自我。再一次的，他們成為對社會有幫助的一份子。我們也在監獄中進行一樣的計畫。現在根與芽的計畫是如火如荼地在進行。但是，喔，我們依然持續在愛滋病防預工作上。這對於根與芽計畫是非常重要的一個部份，讓年齡較長的小孩和年紀較小的孩子溝通比如談非自願性的懷孕與其它類似的事，因為這些年輕人會更願意去聽一樣是年輕人所說的話。 希望。我在世界各地常聽到別人這樣問我 :“珍，妳曾經看到許多糟糕的事情，妳看到黑猩猩們持續減少數量由世紀初的一百萬隻到現在不超過十五萬隻的數量。並且許多的動物也發生一樣的事情。森林持續消失著，曾經是森林的地方現在變成了沙漠。妳是真的還抱有希望嗎? “ 嗯，是的。應該沒有人來參加TED會議卻不帶著任何希望的，是吧?當然，這裡有希望存在。其中之一是我們都擁有那令人驚奇的大腦。 我的意思是，想一想技術。我是如此的興奮，最後，讓我們來說說堆肥式的公廁。這是其中一件我所喜歡舉例並且所討論的事情之一。我們總是把所有的水往馬桶裡沖，這是糟糕的。然後再不斷的述說那再生能源有多麼的重要。我們是否曾為了我們的孩子關心這個星球?這裡有多少人有小孩、孫子、姪子與外甥?我們真的關心他們的未來嗎?假如我們關心著他們的未來，我們身為這世界上精英份子，我們可以做點不一樣的事情。我們可以在每一天做一些不同的改變。我們買些甚麼。我們穿些甚麼。當做這些選擇之時可以想一想這些問題，這些選擇是否會影響我們周遭的環境?它是否會影響我們小孩長大後的世界?或者影響至我們的孫子那一代。所以我們的腦，與我們的心，和我們雙手可以一同改變這世界。這也是為甚麼TED會議可以幫助世界更好，Google也一同幫助我們，ESRI也幫助我們定義岡貝國家公園的位置與面積。所有這些我們能使用的技術 現在讓我們來整合它們，而它們也開始起作用了，不是嗎?你們今天下午聽到這些。改變已經開始發生。這些改變，這些改變；為了要看到這些改變，假如我們關心未來，我們就必需看到這些改變。另一個原因是為了希望 — 大自然擁有無法想像的韌性。你可以讓一塊完全被毀壞的區域，只要有時間或許再一些幫助，就能讓這塊區域再度復育。而坦尚尼亞造林計劃就是其中之一個例子。那看似已死去的樹木殘根，假如你停止砍伐他們來生火，事實上你不需要，因為你已經擁有很多的木材了，然後在五年之內你會看到生長至30英呎高的樹木。並且許多瀕臨滅絕的動物們，牠們永遠都有復育的機會。這是我的下一本書。它啟發著我。它也帶領我看到另一層希望，而過去兩天內你們都已經聽到許多跟這希望有關的演說也就是人類不屈不撓的精神。人們堅毅的決心，人類靈魂的韌性，所以這些你認為已經被窮苦與病痛擊垮的人們他們自己都有從困境中走出來的力量，有時只要一個幫忙，並且讓他們成為社會的一分子，讓他們成為改變這世界的一份子。 試著想想那些鼓舞世人的非洲人物。我們可以列出一大串人名，最著名的就是納爾遜•曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)經過17年困苦的勞工生活，23年的監禁，還能有無比的寬恕去原諒他人，也因此他能夠領導他的國家和平地走出泯滅人性的種族隔離時代而避開血腥對抗。奈及利亞的沙羅維瓦(Ken Saro-Wiwa)對抗著巨大的石油公司。儘管來自世界各地的聲援，他仍然難逃被處決的命運。像他這樣的人是非常鼓舞人心的。像他這樣子的模範正是目前非洲年輕一代所需要的。並且我們也需要對環境奉獻的模範人物，而我今天已經看了不少這樣子的人物。所以我非常感謝地要再一次借由這難得的機會向在TED會議中你們每一個人分享這樣的訊息。我希望我們當中的一些人能聚在一起討論這些事，特別是根與芽的計畫。 最後我要跟你們說件事 —籌辦這整場會議的年輕女生，我今天遇到了她。她拿著證書，看起來非常的興奮。她是根與芽成員之一。她是在坦桑尼亞的答艾斯撒蘭(Dar Es Salaam)的領導者之一。她說這個計畫幫她做到她想做的事。而這對我來說是件非常興奮的事情，讓我看到這樣一個例子，當年輕人從這計畫得到能力得到機會去行動，他們就讓這世界變得更好，毋疑這就是明日的希望。謝謝大家。 (掌聲)"
