Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_mcgonigal_gaming_can_make_a_better_world	"I'm Jane McGonigal. I'm a game designer. I've been making games online now for 10 years, and my goal for the next decade is to try to make it as easy to save the world in real life as it is to save the world in online games. Now, I have a plan for this, and it entails convincing more people, including all of you, to spend more time playing bigger and better games. Right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games. Some of you might be thinking, ""That's a lot of time to spend playing games. Maybe too much time, considering how many urgent problems we have to solve in the real world."" But actually, according to my research at the Institute for the Future, actually the opposite is true. Three billion hours a week is not nearly enough game play to solve the world's most urgent problems. In fact, I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, we need to increase that total dramatically. I've calculated the total we need at 21 billion hours of game play every week. So, that's probably a bit of a counter-intuitive idea, so I'll say it again, let it sink in: If we want to solve problems like hunger, poverty, climate change, global conflict, obesity, I believe that we need to aspire to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week, by the end of the next decade. (Laughter) No. I'm serious. I am. Here's why. This picture pretty much sums up why I think games are so essential to the future survival of the human species. (Laughter) Truly. This is a portrait by photographer Phil Toledano. He wanted to capture the emotion of gaming, so he set up a camera in front of gamers while they were playing. And this is a classic gaming emotion. Now, if you're not a gamer, you might miss some of the nuance in this photo. You probably see the sense of urgency, a little bit of fear, but intense concentration, deep, deep focus on tackling a really difficult problem. If you are a gamer, you will notice a few nuances here: the crinkle of the eyes up, and around the mouth is a sign of optimism, and the eyebrows up is surprise. This is a gamer who's on the verge of something called an ""epic win."" (Laughter) Oh, you've heard of that. OK, good, so we have some gamers among us. An epic win is an outcome that is so extraordinarily positive, you had no idea it was even possible until you achieved it. It was almost beyond the threshold of imagination, and when you get there, you're shocked to discover what you're truly capable of. That's an epic win. This is a gamer on the verge of an epic win. And this is the face that we need to see on millions of problem-solvers all over the world as we try to tackle the obstacles of the next century — the face of someone who, against all odds, is on the verge of an epic win. Now, unfortunately this is more of the face that we see in everyday life now as we try to tackle urgent problems. This is what I call the ""I'm Not Good At Life"" face. This is actually me making it. Can you see? Yes. Good. This is me making the ""I'm Not Good At Life"" face. This is a piece of graffiti in my old neighborhood in Berkeley, California, where I did my PhD on why we're better in games than we are in real life. And this is a problem that a lot of gamers have. We feel that we are not as good in reality as we are in games. I don't mean just good as in successful, although that's part of it. We do achieve more in game worlds. But I also mean good as in motivated to do something that matters — inspired to collaborate and to cooperate. And when we're in game worlds, I believe that many of us become the best version of ourselves — the most likely to help at a moment's notice, the most likely to stick with a problem as long at it takes, to get up after failure and try again. And in real life, when we face failure, when we confront obstacles, we often don't feel that way. We feel overcome, we feel overwhelmed, we feel anxious, maybe depressed, frustrated or cynical. We never have those feelings when we're playing games, they just don't exist in games. So that's what I wanted to study when I was a graduate student. What about games makes it impossible to feel that we can't achieve everything? How can we take those feelings from games and apply them to real-world work? So I looked at games like World of Warcraft, which is really the ideal collaborative problem-solving environment. And I started to notice a few things that make epic wins so possible in online worlds. The first thing is whenever you show up in one of these online games, especially in World of Warcraft, there are lots and lots of different characters who are willing to trust you with a world-saving mission, right away. But not just any mission, it's a mission that is perfectly matched with your current level in the game. Right? So you can do it. They never give you a challenge you can't achieve. But it is on the verge of what you're capable of, so you have to try hard. But there's no unemployment in World of Warcraft; no sitting around, wringing your hands — there's always something specific and important to be done. There are also tons of collaborators. Everywhere you go, hundreds of thousands of people ready to work with you to achieve your epic mission. That's not something we have in real life that easily, this sense that at our fingertips are tons of collaborators. And there's this epic story, this inspiring story of why we're there, and what we're doing, and we get all this positive feedback. You guys have heard of leveling up, +1 strength, +1 intelligence. We don't get that kind of constant feedback in real life. When I get off this stage, I'm not going to have +1 speaking, and +1 crazy idea, +20 crazy idea. I don't get that feedback in real life. Now, the problem with collaborative online environments like World of Warcraft is that it's so satisfying to be on the verge of an epic win all the time, we decide to spend all our time in these game worlds. It's just better than reality. So, so far, collectively all the World of Warcraft gamers have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of Azeroth. Now, that's not necessarily a bad thing. It might sound like it's a bad thing. But to put that in context: 5.93 million years ago was when our earliest primate human ancestors stood up. That was the first upright primate. So when we talk about how much time we're currently investing in playing games, the only way it makes sense to even think about it is to talk about time at the magnitude of human evolution, which is an extraordinary thing. But it's also apt, because it turns out that by spending all this time playing games, we're actually changing what we are capable of as human beings. We're evolving to be a more collaborative and hearty species. This is true. I believe this. So, consider this really interesting statistic; it was recently published by a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University: The average young person today in a country with a strong gamer culture will have spent 10,000 hours playing online games by the age of 21. Now 10,000 hours is a really interesting number for two reasons. First of all, for children in the United States, 10,080 hours is the exact amount of time you will spend in school, from fifth grade to high school graduation, if you have perfect attendance. (Laughter) So, we have an entire parallel track of education going on, where young people are learning as much about what it takes to be a good gamer as they're learning about everything else in school. Some of you have probably read Malcolm Gladwell's new book ""Outliers,"" so you would have heard of his theory of success, the ""10,000 hours"" theory of success. It's based on this great cognitive-science research that says if we can master 10,000 hours of effortful study at anything by the age of 21, we will be virtuosos at it. We will be as good at whatever we do as the greatest people in the world. And so, now what we're looking at is an entire generation of young people who are virtuoso gamers. So, the big question is, ""What exactly are gamers getting so good at?"" Because if we could figure that out, we would have a virtually unprecedented human resource on our hands. This is how many people we now have in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games. These are our virtuoso gamers, 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something. And in the next decade, we're going to have another billion gamers who are extraordinarily good at whatever that is. If you don't know it already, this is coming. The game industry is developing consoles that are low-energy and that work with the wireless phone networks instead of broadband Internet, so that gamers all over the world, particularly in India, China, Brazil, can get online. They expect one billion more gamers in the next decade. It will bring us up to 1.5 billion gamers. So I've started to think about what these games are making us virtuosos at. Here are the four things I came up with. The first is urgent optimism. OK, think of this as extreme self-motivation. Urgent optimism is the desire to act immediately to tackle an obstacle, combined with the belief that we have a reasonable hope of success. Gamers always believe that an epic win is possible, and that it's always worth trying, and trying now. Gamers don't sit around. Gamers are virtuosos at weaving a tight social fabric. There's a lot of interesting research that shows we like people better after we play a game with them, even if they've beaten us badly. And the reason is, it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone. We trust that they will spend their time with us, that they will play by the same rules, value the same goal, stay with the game until it's over. And so, playing a game together actually builds up bonds and trust and cooperation. And we actually build stronger social relationships as a result. Blissful productivity. I love it. You know, there's a reason why the average World of Warcraft gamer plays for 22 hours a week — kind of a half-time job. It's because we know, when we're playing a game, that we're actually happier working hard than we are relaxing, or hanging out. We know that we are optimized as human beings, to do hard and meaningful work. And gamers are willing to work hard all the time, if they're given the right work. Finally: epic meaning. Gamers love to be attached to awe-inspiring missions to human planetary-scale stories. So, just one bit of trivia that helps put that into perspective: So, you all know Wikipedia, biggest wiki in the world. Second biggest wiki in the world, with nearly 80,000 articles, is the World of Warcraft wiki. Five million people use it every month. They have compiled more information about World of Warcraft on the Internet than any other topic covered on any other wiki in the world. They are building an epic story. They are building an epic knowledge resource about the World of Warcraft. Okay, so these are four superpowers that add up to one thing: Gamers are super-empowered hopeful individuals. These are people who believe that they are individually capable of changing the world. And the only problem is, they believe that they are capable of changing virtual worlds and not the real world. That's the problem that I'm trying to solve. There's an economist named Edward Castronova. His work is brilliant. He looks at why people are investing so much time and energy and money in online worlds. And he says, ""We're witnessing what amounts to no less than a mass exodus to virtual worlds and online game environments."" And he's an economist, so he's rational. And he says — (Laughter) Not like me, I'm a game designer; I'm exuberant. But he says that this makes perfect sense, because gamers can achieve more in online worlds than they can in real life. They can have stronger social relationships in games than they can have in real life; they get better feedback and feel more rewarded in games than they do in real life. So he says, for now it makes perfect sense for gamers to spend more time in virtual worlds than the real world. Now, I also agree that that is rational, for now. But it is not, by any means, an optimal situation. We have to start making the real world work more like a game. I take my inspiration from something that happened 2,500 years ago. These are ancient dice, made out of sheep's knuckles. Before we had awesome game controllers, we had sheep's knuckles. And these represent the first game equipment designed by human beings, and if you're familiar with the work of the ancient Greek historian Herodotus, you might know this history, which is the history of who invented games and why. Herodotus says that games, particularly dice games, were invented in the kingdom of Lydia, during a time of famine. Apparently, there was such a severe famine that the king of Lydia decided they had to do something crazy. People were suffering. People were fighting. It was an extreme situation, they needed an extreme solution. So, according to Herodotus, they invented dice games, and they set up a kingdom-wide policy: On one day, everybody would eat, and on the next day, everybody would play games. And they would be so immersed in playing the dice games, because games are so engaging, and immerse us in such satisfying, blissful productivity, they would ignore the fact that they had no food to eat. And then on the next day, they would play games; and on the next day, they would eat. And according to Herodotus, they passed 18 years this way, surviving through a famine, by eating on one day, and playing games on the next. Now, this is exactly, I think, how we're using games today. We're using games to escape real-world suffering — we're using games to get away from everything that's broken in the real environment, everything that's not satisfying about real life, and we're getting what we need from games. But it doesn't have to end there. This is really exciting. According to Herodotus, after 18 years the famine wasn't getting better, so the king decided they would play one final dice game. They divided the entire kingdom in half. They played one dice game, and the winners of that game got to go on an epic adventure. They would leave Lydia, and they would go out in search of a new place to live, leaving behind just enough people to survive on the resources that were available, and hopefully to take their civilization somewhere else where they could thrive. Now, this sounds crazy, right? But recently, DNA evidence has shown that the Etruscans, who then led to the Roman Empire, actually share the same DNA as the ancient Lydians. And so, recently, scientists have suggested that Herodotus' crazy story is actually true. And geologists have found evidence of a global cooling that lasted for nearly 20 years, that could have explained the famine. So this crazy story might be true. They might have actually saved their culture by playing games, escaping to games for 18 years, and then been so inspired, and knew so much about how to come together with games, that they actually saved the entire civilization that way. Okay, we can do that. (Laughter) We've been playing Warcraft since 1994. That was the first real-time strategy game from the World of Warcraft series. That was 16 years ago. They played dice games for 18 years, we've been playing Warcraft for 16 years. I say we are ready for our own epic game. Now, they had half the civilization go off in search of a new world, so that's where I get my 21 billion hours a week of game-play from. Let's get half of us to agree to spend an hour a day playing games, until we solve real-world problems. Now, I know you're asking, ""How are we going to solve real-world problems in games?"" Well, that's what I've devoted my work to over the past few years, at the Institute for the Future. We have this banner in our offices in Palo Alto, and it expresses our view of how we should try to relate to the future. We do not want to try to predict the future. What we want to do is make the future. We want to imagine the best-case scenario outcome, and then we want to empower people to make that outcome a reality. We want to imagine epic wins, and then give people the means to achieve the epic win. I'm just going to very briefly show you three games that I've made that are an attempt to give people the means to create epic wins in their own futures. This is World Without Oil. We made this game in 2007. This is an online game in which you try to survive an oil shortage. The oil shortage is fictional, but we put enough online content out there for you to believe that it's real, and to live your real life as if we've run out of oil. So when you come to the game, you sign up, tell us where you live, and then we give you real-time news videos, data feeds that show you exactly how much oil costs, what's not available, how food supply is being affected, how transportation is being affected, if schools are closed, if there's rioting, and you have to figure out how you would live your real life as if this were true. And then we ask you to blog about it, to post videos, to post photos. We piloted this game with 1,700 players in 2007, and we've tracked them for the three years since. And I can tell you that this is a transformative experience. Nobody wants to change how they live, just because it's good for the world, or because we're supposed to. But if you immerse them in an epic adventure and tell them, ""We've run out of oil. This is an amazing story and adventure for you to go on. Challenge yourself to see how you would survive,"" most of our players have kept up the habits that they learned in this game. So for the next world-saving game, we decided to aim higher — bigger problem than just peak oil. We did a game called Superstruct at the Institute for the Future. And the premise was, a supercomputer has calculated that humans have only 23 years left on the planet. This supercomputer was called the Global Extinction Awareness System, of course. We asked people to come online — almost like a Jerry Bruckheimer movie. You know Jerry Bruckheimer movies, you form a dream team — you've got the astronaut, the scientist, the ex-convict, and they all have something to do to save the world. (Laughter) But in our game, instead of just having five people on the dream team, we said, ""Everybody's on the dream team, and it's your job to invent the future of energy, the future of food, the future of health, the future of security and the future of the social safety net."" We had 8,000 people play that game for eight weeks. They came up with 500 insanely creative solutions that you can go online, Google ""Superstruct,"" and see. So, finally, the last game, we're launching it March 3rd. This is a game done with the World Bank Institute. If you complete the game, you will be certified by the World Bank Institute as a Social Innovator, class of 2010. Working with universities all over sub-Saharan Africa, and we are inviting them to learn social innovation skills. We've got a graphic novel, we've got leveling up in skills like local insight, knowledge networking, sustainability, vision and resourcefulness. I would like to invite all of you to please share this game with young people, anywhere in the world, particularly in developing areas, who might benefit from coming together to try to start to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world. So, I'm going to wrap up now. I want to ask a question. What do you think happens next? We've got all these amazing gamers, we've got these games that are kind of pilots of what we might do, but none of them have saved the real world yet. Well I hope you will agree with me that gamers are a human resource that we can use to do real-world work, that games are a powerful platform for change. We have all these amazing superpowers: blissful productivity, the ability to weave a tight social fabric, this feeling of urgent optimism and the desire for epic meaning. I really hope that we can come together to play games that matter, to survive on this planet for another century. That's my hope, that you will join me in making and playing games like this. When I look forward to the next decade, I know two things for sure: that we can make any future we can imagine, and we can play any games we want, so I say: Let the world-changing games begin. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我叫Jane McGonigal。我是個遊戲設計師。我從事線上遊戲製作十年了。而我未來十年的目標是試著讓拯救現實世界變得跟拯救線上遊戲的世界一樣簡單。而現在，我有個計畫，這個計畫要說服更多人，連同在座的各位，花更多時間去玩更大，更好的遊戲。 現在，我們每個禮拜共花三十億個鐘頭在玩線上遊戲。你們可能有人在想，「哇！花那麼多時間打電動？」這樣花太多時間在遊戲上了現實生活中，還有很多我們得解決的急迫問題但事實上，根據我在""未來學會(The Institute For The Future)""所做的研究顯示事實正好相反。每週30億小時的遊戲時間還遠遠不夠解決世上最急迫的問題。 其實，我認為如果我們想在地球上熬過下個世紀，我們必須大幅增加我們玩遊戲的總時數。我計算過我們需要的總時數是每週210億小時。所以，這其實跟我們一般認知有些相違背。好，讓我再說一次，大家體會一下。如果我們想解決以下這些問題：飢餓、貧困、全球暖化、國際衝突、肥胖問題，我堅信我們必須立志去玩線上遊戲...至少每週210億小時，限時十年內！真的，我是認真的。 告訴你為什麼。這張照片差不多說明了為什麼我認為，遊戲對人類的未來是必需的。我說真的啦。這是攝影師Phil Toledano所拍攝的，他想捕捉人在玩遊戲時的情緒，所以他在玩家面前架了個相機。而這張照片就是個經典的玩家表情！如果你並非玩家你可能會忽略這張照片一些細微之處。你看到的可能是迫切感、有點害怕、卻又十分專注、正專心地解決某個相當棘手的問題。 但如果你是玩家，你就會發現一些細微之處，像是眼睛和嘴角因為樂觀而上揚、挑起的眉毛表示感到驚喜...這個玩家正接近所謂的...史詩級的勝利(epic win)(笑聲)噢！你們聽過嘛！那很好看來這裡有些人也是玩家。史詩級的勝利極度振奮人心！在你成功之前，你根本沒想過這一切是有可能的。幾乎就是想都不敢想。但一旦你成功之後你就會發現原來你還真的有如此的神技，這就是史詩級的勝利！這個玩家就快要得到史詩級的勝利了同時這也是下個世紀在處理全球許多問題時，我們想看到的表情在排除障礙時流露的表情。這張臉就是辛苦排除萬難即將獲得史詩勝利的表情。 現在，不幸的是，當我們處理日常生活中，各種緊急事件的時，我們往往看到的是這表情我稱這表情為“不擅長生活”的表情表情事實上是我擺的，看的出來嗎？好的這就是我做出的“不擅長生活”表情這也是我在加州柏克萊一個老社區進修我的博士學位時的一個塗鴉我研究“為什麼我們在虛擬遊戲世界中的表現比現實世界更好”同時這也是很多玩家的問題我們覺得自己在現實的表現無法像在遊戲中一樣好 我指的好，不完全等於成功不過成功的確包含在內我們確實在遊戲世界中達成更多任務但我指的好，還包含去做要緊事情的内在動力、激起與相互合作的靈感。當我們處於遊戲世界時我認為，我們大多數人可以做""最好的自己""，如果有人遇難，我們就會義無反顧的去幫忙並且會持之以恆的解决一個問題面對挫折我們會勇敢的站起来，並繼續奮鬥但在現實生活中，當我們面對失敗時當我們遇到阻礙時，我們往往並不會這麼勇敢我們會覺得挫敗會覺得很沉重我們會焦慮、沮喪、灰心或者憤世嫉俗這種感受跟遊戲時很不相同遊戲時這些感受不存在這就是我當研究生時所想研究的東西 到底為什麼，遊戲讓我們覺得沒有事情是辦不到的呢？我們要怎麼把遊戲時的這種感覺應用到現實工作生活中？因此，我研究了一些類似《魔獸世界》的遊戲它們才是理想的，解决合作問題的平台我注意到為什麼史詩般的勝利，在線上遊戲中這麼容易達到 第一，不論你什麼時候上線玩遊戲尤其是《魔獸世界》遊戲裡有很多不同的角色他們願意信任你，立刻交付你拯救世界的任務但並不是隨便的任務，而是會依照你的等級，交付你任務，沒錯吧？因此，你有能力做到的他們不會分派一個你做不到的任務給你但快要完成這任務的最後時刻，你一定得竭盡全力在魔獸世界裡，每個人都有職業沒有人坐在那發呆總是會有些特别且重要的任務要完成而且許多任務都要大家的合作不論到哪哩，都會有成千上萬人等著和你合作幫助你完成史詩級的任務 現實生活就沒這麼簡單了這種指尖上的成就感隨便招呼就有人幫忙的感覺遊戲中也有史詩般、鼓舞人心的故事劇情，告訴我們為何而來、為何而戰得到的都是正面的評價你們一定聽過，升等之後，力量＋１智力也會＋１現實生活中就沒有這種立即回饋當我走下講台，我才不會有演講力＋１、瘋狂點子＋１、甚至到＋２０的回饋現實生活中沒有任何獎勵 像《魔獸世界》這種網路遊戲最令人滿足的就是能與他人合作一起獲得史詩般的勝利也是為什麼我們會花這麼多時間玩遊戲因為它比現實感受更好目前為止，《魔獸世界》的玩家總共花費了593萬年的時間去解决艾澤拉斯裡的各種虛擬問題這不是件壞事雖然聽起來很糟但你要想想593萬年前我們的靈長類祖先開始直立行走成為第一種直立行走的靈長類動物 所以，當我們講到花了多少時間玩電玩的時候，只要理性想想在人類進化過程中我們所花費的時間有多少相比之下是多麼可觀卻也合理，因為你會發現我們花這麼多時間玩遊戲反而漸漸改變了我們身為人類的能力我們不斷進化成更能合作，更友好的物種這是真的，我如此深信 看看這個有趣的數據是卡內基美隆大學一個研究員出版的在一個線上遊戲盛行的國家現今平均一個年輕人在21歲以前，玩線上遊戲的時間會是一萬小時現在，一萬小時這數字很有趣是因為兩個原因首先，美國的兒童從五年級到高中畢業一個人將會花10080小時在學校上課前提是不翹課的話啦 所以我們有了平行追蹤教育的數據年輕人學著當個好玩家所花的時間和他們在學校學習的時數是相同的你們有些人也許讀過Malcom Gladwell 的新書《局外人》你們聽過他對於成功的見解一萬小時的成功理論這理論是基於認知科學的研究：如果我們在21歲前花一萬小時專心的學習、專心做任何事，那麼我們便能在該領域獲得極大成就不管是哪個領域，我們都能成為世界頂尖所以，我們正面對的是一整代年輕的頂尖玩家們 最大的問題就是「玩家們擅長的到底是什麼？」如果我們能找出這答案就可以找出真正史無前例的人力資源這些是目前世界上每天至少花一小時玩線上遊戲的玩家他們都是頂尖玩家共五億人都擅長於某件事情在接下來的十年裡會有另外十億玩家都擅長於另一個領域如果你還不知道，我告訴你，這正發生著遊戲產業一直在不停的發展低耗源、無線的手機網路，都取代了以往頻寬的網路介面讓全球的玩家，尤其來自印度、中國、巴西的玩家們，可以一起玩預測接下來十年裡，會多出十億玩家加上原本的五億，將達到15億玩家的數量 所以我開始思考，到底什麼原因讓我們對遊戲這麼擅長我想到四個方面。首先就是無比的樂觀把它想像成是極端的自我激勵無比的樂觀就是立刻解決阻礙的慾望加上想取得成功所持有的信念玩家們都相信，史詩般的勝利是辦得到的而且值得不斷嘗試玩家並不是閒坐在那他們很擅長組織緊密的社會連結一項有趣的調查顯示我們會更喜歡那些一起玩過遊戲的人即使他們把我們打敗的很慘原因就是，在遊戲過程中我們對彼此累積了信任原因是，我們都花費相同的時間、遵守同樣的規則、擁有共同的目標，並肩作戰直到遊戲結束 因此，一起參與遊戲是可以建立默契、信任和合作的進而能夠建立更強健的人際網路、幸福的生產力，我愛這詞《魔獸世界》的玩家，平均一星期花22小時在遊戲上是有原因的已經有點像在兼職了這是因為，在我們玩遊戲時和我們放鬆、玩樂時相比更努力地玩遊戲其實是更快樂的大家都知道，身為人類我們是有能力達成重大任務的如果能給玩家適當的任務他們就會不斷、努力地完成 最後，是史詩意義玩家們喜歡被賦予敬畏般的任務、冒險般的故事情節所以，我先分享個小故事，幫助你了解這論點大家都知道維基百科，全球最大的百科(wiki)全球第二大的百科裡，共有八萬篇文章就是《魔獸世界》百科每個月都有500萬人瀏覽裡面涵蓋關於《魔獸世界》的資料比網路上其他主題的資料都要來的多這也是一種史詩般的故事他們也是建造了《魔獸世界》史詩般的知識庫 所以，這四種超能力結合起來就是具有超能力、富有希望的玩家這些人都深信自己有能力改變世界但唯一的問題是，他們只相信自己能改變的是虛擬世界而不是現實世界這正是我所努力想解决的問題 有一位經濟學家 Edward Castronova他的研究很棒，他研究為什麼人們花費這麼多時間、精力、和金錢，玩網路遊戲他說：「我們目睹的是一大批人」「從現實世界中出走」「並走向虛擬世界、網路遊戲中」因為他是經濟學家，所以他是理性的他還說...不像我，我是個遊戲設計師，精力旺盛他還說這種情形是有跡可循的因為玩家在網路世界中達成的，比現實生活多他們在遊戲裡可以擁有比現實生活更好的人際關係他們所得到的回饋也比現實生活來的多因此，他說對於玩家而言，他們會花費比現實生活還多的時間玩遊戲，是理所當然的好，我暫時同意這個理性觀點但是，無論如何，這不是最佳情況我們不得不開始把現實世界建構的像遊戲一樣 因此，我從2500年前發生的一件事裡得到了靈感這些是古早的骰子，用羊的關節做的在我們設計出遊戲控制器以前我們就用這個玩遊戲了這些就是人類最早設計出的遊戲道具如果你們對於希臘的歷史學家希羅多德還算熟悉，你就會知道這故事這也是遊戲發明的起源與原因希羅多德說遊戲，特别是骰子遊戲是在古代呂底亞王國 (Kingdom of Lydia)飢荒的時候發明的 顯然的，因為飢荒太嚴重呂底亞國王決定，他們不得不用非常手段當時民不聊生，暴亂四起非常時期就需要非常手段於是，根據希羅多德文獻，他們發明骰子遊戲並制定全國政策有其中一天，所有人都能吃東西但是第二天，所有人就只能玩遊戲人們會專心的玩骰子遊戲因為遊戲太吸引人了我們沉浸在幸福的生產力帶來的滿足感裡以至於忘記沒有食物吃的事實再過一天，人們就會繼續玩遊戲再接下來的那天，才會吃東西 根據希羅多德記載呂底亞王國用這種方式過了18年撐過飢荒就是用這種一天吃、其他天玩遊戲的方式我認為，這也是今日大家對於遊戲的看法我們玩遊戲來逃避現實的苦痛我們玩遊戲來逃避真實生活中破碎的、不盡滿意的大小事因為遊戲中，可以得到自己想要的 但遊戲不一定止於此令人興奮的是希羅多德記載，18年後飢荒並沒有改善因此，國王決定要來場骰子最終戰役他把全國人們分成兩組跟彼此競賽贏的一方會踏上史詩般的旅程他們將離開呂底亞王國去尋找一個新地方居住剩下的人正好能用現存的資源過活同時也是希望能將他們的文明繼續傳承到別的地方 聽起來很瘋狂吧但最近，有DNA證據顯示領導羅馬帝國的伊特魯里亞人(Etruscans)和古呂底亞人有著相同基因最近科學家認為希羅多德的瘋狂故事是有其真實性的地質學家也找到證據有一段時期的全球冷化持續將近20年的時間，正好能解釋當時飢荒的情形所以，這瘋狂故事也許是真的他們透過玩遊戲保留了他們的文化用遊戲躲避現實18年之後受啟發知道如何用遊戲讓彼此相聚一起之後用這方法拯救了整個文明 我們也做得到人們從1994年開始玩魔獸這是魔獸世界系列裡，第一款即時戰略遊戲，而這是16年前的事情古人骰子遊戲玩了18年我們則玩魔獸16年我敢說，我們已經準備好史詩般的任務了古人利用一半的文明去尋找新世界我算出一週210億小時玩遊戲，就是這樣來的讓我們一半的人每天玩遊戲一小時直到我們能夠解決現實的問題為止 你可能會問: 「我們在遊戲中，」「要如何解決現實的問題呢？」這也是我多年來，致力於這工作的原因我在""未來學會""工作我們在Palo Alto(加州)的辦公室有個布條表達出我們對未來的看法我們不會試著預測未來但我們會試著創造未來我們想像未來最好的情況然後給人們力量讓想像中的未來成真我們渴望史詩般的勝利同時賦予人們達成史詩勝利的道具 我來簡短的介紹一下這三款我設計的遊戲目的是想給人們一些能用來達成自己未來史詩勝利所需要的道具這是《無油世界》我們2007年製作的遊戲這款線上遊戲，是要你在石油短缺時設法生存石油短缺是虛構的但是我們投入很多情節在裡面你就會相信是真實的，好像現實生活中石油快沒有了一樣。所以，你連上遊戲註冊，輸入你的所在地我們就會給你一段即時新聞畫面有精確的數據告訴你石油的價格哪些東西買不到、食物供應的影響、運輸系統的影響、學校是否倒閉了，或是有暴動所以你要想，事件真的發生的話你要怎麼過生活，然後你將想法打到部落格上、上傳影片或照片 在2007年，有1700人參與這遊戲的測試我們追蹤了這些人接下來三年的生活我可以告訴各位，這是個轉變性的經驗沒有人會因為""對環境好""、""這是我們的責任""，而做出自發性改變但如果賦予他們史詩般的冒險旅程並告訴他們「世界上快沒石油了」大家就會走上這很棒的冒險旅程挑戰自我，看自己會如何生存大部份的玩家都保留了他們在遊戲中所養成的習慣 在接下來的一款拯救世界的遊戲裡我們將目標設在比石油更嚴重的問題上我們在""未來學會""做了一款""Superstruct""的遊戲這遊戲的假設是，有部超級電腦計算出我們在這星球只剩23年的生存時間這台超級電腦叫作全球大滅絕警戒系統大家上線就像是傑瑞布洛克海默(國家寶藏等電影製作人)所製作的電影情節一樣，都有個夢幻團隊團隊裡有太空人、科學家、前科犯而他們各有拯救世界的本領(笑聲) 但我們的遊戲並不是五人夢幻小隊我們設定，每個人都是夢幻小隊的一員你的任務就是開發新能源、未來的食物、未來的健康保健、未來的保全及社會安全網路我們有八千人玩這遊戲，玩八週的時間他們想出了五百個瘋狂卻超有創意的解决辦法你上網Google關鍵字Superstruct，就看得到結果了 最後一個遊戲會在3月3日上市。這遊戲是和世界銀行學院合作完成的如果你完成這個遊戲，就能得到世界銀行學院發的認證成為2010級的社會創新者透過與撒哈拉以南非洲各地大學的合作我們邀請他們一起學習社會創新技能我們都有超人漫畫，我們只要把洞察力提升、知識網路提升、提升永續性、視野、資源我想邀請各位把這些遊戲分享給年輕人分享到世界各地，特別是開發中地區遊戲能讓他們聚在一起試著想像出自己心中的社會企業，來拯救世界 我要做個總結了我想問各位一個問題你們覺得未來會發生什麼事？我們有這麼多厲害的玩家現有的遊戲，就有點像未來情形的預演但還沒確實拯救真實世界我希望大家能同意我的觀點：玩家們就是人力資源他們可以改變真實世界因為遊戲就是個改變世界的平台我們有這麼棒的超能力幸福的生產力、組織緊密社會的能力、無比樂觀的感受、追求史詩意義的欲望 我希望我們都能一起玩這些重要的遊戲，才能在下個世紀，繼續生存在這星球上我希望大家能加入我的行列，去製作或是動手玩這樣的遊戲當我期待下個十年時我對兩件事非常肯定首先，我們能創造出任何我們所能想像出的未來其次，我們可以玩任何我們想玩的遊戲讓我們從遊戲來改變這個世界謝謝大家(掌聲)"
