Talk	en	zh-tw
jane_goodall_on_what_separates_us_from_the_apes	"Good morning everyone. First of all, it's been fantastic being here over these past few days. And secondly, I feel it's a great honor to kind of wind up this extraordinary gathering of people, these amazing talks that we've had. I feel that I've fitted in, in many ways, to some of the things that I've heard. I came directly here from the deep, deep tropical rainforest in Ecuador, where I was out — you could only get there by a plane — with indigenous people with paint on their faces and parrot feathers on their headdresses, where these people are fighting to try and keep the oil companies, and keep the roads, out of their forests. They're fighting to develop their own way of living within the forest in a world that's clean, a world that isn't contaminated, a world that isn't polluted. And what was so amazing to me, and what fits right in with what we're all talking about here at TED, is that there, right in the middle of this rainforest, was some solar panels — the first in that part of Ecuador — and that was mainly to bring water up by pump so that the women wouldn't have to go down. The water was cleaned, but because they got a lot of batteries, they were able to store a lot of electricity. So every house — and there were, I think, eight houses in this little community — could have light for, I think it was about half an hour each evening. And there is the Chief, in all his regal finery, with a laptop computer. (Laughter) And this man, he has been outside, but he's gone back, and he was saying, ""You know, we have suddenly jumped into a whole new era, and we didn't even know about the white man 50 years ago, and now here we are with laptop computers, and there are some things we want to learn from the modern world. We want to know about health care. We want to know about what other people do — we're interested in it. And we want to learn other languages. We want to know English and French and perhaps Chinese, and we're good at languages."" So there he is with his little laptop computer, but fighting against the might of the pressures — because of the debt, the foreign debt of Ecuador — fighting the pressure of World Bank, IMF, and of course the people who want to exploit the forests and take out the oil. And so, coming directly from there to here. But, of course, my real field of expertise lies in an even different kind of civilization — I can't really call it a civilization. A different way of life, a different being. We've talked earlier — this wonderful talk by Wade Davis about the different cultures of the humans around the world — but the world is not composed only of human beings; there are also other animal beings. And I propose to bring into this TED conference, as I always do around the world, the voice of the animal kingdom. Too often we just see a few slides, or a bit of film, but these beings have voices that mean something. And so, I want to give you a greeting, as from a chimpanzee in the forests of Tanzania — Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! (Applause) I've been studying chimpanzees in Tanzania since 1960. During that time, there have been modern technologies that have really transformed the way that field biologists do their work. For example, for the first time, a few years ago, by simply collecting little fecal samples we were able to have them analyzed — to have DNA profiling done — so for the first time, we actually know which male chimps are the fathers of each individual infant. Because the chimps have a very promiscuous mating society. So this opens up a whole new avenue of research. And we use GSI — geographic whatever it is, GSI — to determine the range of the chimps. And we're using — you can see that I'm not really into this kind of stuff — but we're using satellite imagery to look at the deforestation in the area. And of course, there's developments in infrared, so you can watch animals at night, and equipment for recording by video, and tape recording is getting lighter and better. So in many, many ways, we can do things today that we couldn't do when I began in 1960. Especially when chimpanzees, and other animals with large brains, are studied in captivity, modern technology is helping us to search for the upper levels of cognition in some of these non-human animals. So that we know today, they're capable of performances that would have been thought absolutely impossible by science when I began. I think the chimpanzee in captivity who is the most skilled in intellectual performance is one called Ai in Japan — her name means love — and she has a wonderfully sensitive partner working with her. She loves her computer — she'll leave her big group, and her running water, and her trees and everything. And she'll come in to sit at this computer — it's like a video game for a kid; she's hooked. She's 28, by the way, and she does things with her computer screen and a touch pad that she can do faster than most humans. She does very complex tasks, and I haven't got time to go into them, but the amazing thing about this female is she doesn't like making mistakes. If she has a bad run, and her score isn't good, she'll come and reach up and tap on the glass — because she can't see the experimenter — which is asking to have another go. And her concentration — she's already concentrated hard for 20 minutes or so, and now she wants to do it all over again, just for the satisfaction of having done it better. And the food is not important — she does get a tiny reward, like one raisin for a correct response — but she will do it for nothing, if you tell her beforehand. So here we are, a chimpanzee using a computer. Chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans also learn human sign language. But the point is that when I was first in Gombe in 1960 — I remember so well, so vividly, as though it was yesterday — the first time, when I was going through the vegetation, the chimpanzees were still running away from me, for the most part, although some were a little bit acclimatized — and I saw this dark shape, hunched over a termite mound, and I peered with my binoculars. It was, fortunately, one adult male whom I'd named David Greybeard — and by the way, science at that time was telling me that I shouldn't name the chimps; they should all have numbers; that was more scientific. Anyway, David Greybeard — and I saw that he was picking little pieces of grass and using them to fish termites from their underground nest. And not only that — he would sometimes pick a leafy twig and strip the leaves — modifying an object to make it suitable for a specific purpose — the beginning of tool-making. The reason this was so exciting and such a breakthrough is at that time, it was thought that humans, and only humans, used and made tools. When I was at school, we were defined as man, the toolmaker. So that when Louis Leakey, my mentor, heard this news, he said, ""Ah, we must now redefine 'man,' redefine 'tool,' or accept chimpanzees as humans."" (Laughter) We now know that at Gombe alone, there are nine different ways in which chimpanzees use different objects for different purposes. Moreover, we know that in different parts of Africa, wherever chimps have been studied, there are completely different tool-using behaviors. And because it seems that these patterns are passed from one generation to the next, through observation, imitation and practice — that is a definition of human culture. What we find is that over these 40-odd years that I and others have been studying chimpanzees and the other great apes, and, as I say, other mammals with complex brains and social systems, we have found that after all, there isn't a sharp line dividing humans from the rest of the animal kingdom. It's a very wuzzy line. It's getting wuzzier all the time as we find animals doing things that we, in our arrogance, used to think was just human. The chimps — there's no time to discuss their fascinating lives — but they have this long childhood, five years of suckling and sleeping with the mother, and then another three, four or five years of emotional dependence on her, even when the next child is born. The importance of learning in that time, when behavior is flexible — and there's an awful lot to learn in chimpanzee society. The long-term affectionate supportive bonds that develop throughout this long childhood with the mother, with the brothers and sisters, and which can last through a lifetime, which may be up to 60 years. They can actually live longer than 60 in captivity, so we've only done 40 years in the wild so far. And we find chimps are capable of true compassion and altruism. We find in their non-verbal communication — this is very rich — they have a lot of sounds, which they use in different circumstances, but they also use touch, posture, gesture, and what do they do? They kiss; they embrace; they hold hands. They pat one another on the back; they swagger; they shake their fist — the kind of things that we do, and they do them in the same kind of context. They have very sophisticated cooperation. Sometimes they hunt — not that often, but when they hunt, they show sophisticated cooperation, and they share the prey. We find that they show emotions, similar to — maybe sometimes the same — as those that we describe in ourselves as happiness, sadness, fear, despair. They know mental as well as physical suffering. And I don't have time to go into the information that will prove some of these things to you, save to say that there are very bright students, in the best universities, studying emotions in animals, studying personalities in animals. We know that chimpanzees and some other creatures can recognize themselves in mirrors — ""self"" as opposed to ""other."" They have a sense of humor, and these are the kind of things which traditionally have been thought of as human prerogatives. But this teaches us a new respect — and it's a new respect not only for the chimpanzees, I suggest, but some of the other amazing animals with whom we share this planet. Once we're prepared to admit that after all, we're not the only beings with personalities, minds and above all feelings, and then we start to think about ways we use and abuse so many other sentient, sapient creatures on this planet, it really gives cause for deep shame, at least for me. So, the sad thing is that these chimpanzees — who've perhaps taught us, more than any other creature, a little humility — are in the wild, disappearing very fast. They're disappearing for the reasons that all of you in this room know only too well. The deforestation, the growth of human populations, needing more land. They're disappearing because some timber companies go in with clear-cutting. They're disappearing in the heart of their range in Africa because the big multinational logging companies have come in and made roads — as they want to do in Ecuador and other parts where the forests remain untouched — to take out oil or timber. And this has led in Congo basin, and other parts of the world, to what is known as the bush-meat trade. This means that although for hundreds, perhaps thousands of years, people have lived in those forests, or whatever habitat it is, in harmony with their world, just killing the animals they need for themselves and their families — now, suddenly, because of the roads, the hunters can go in from the towns. They shoot everything, every single thing that moves that's bigger than a small rat; they sun-dry it or smoke it. And now they've got transport; they take it on the logging trucks or the mining trucks into the towns where they sell it. And people will pay more for bush-meat, as it's called, than for domestic meat — it's culturally preferred. And it's not sustainable, and the huge logging camps in the forest are now demanding meat, so the Pygmy hunters in the Congo basin who've lived there with their wonderful way of living for so many hundreds of years are now corrupted. They're given weapons; they shoot for the logging camps; they get money. Their culture is being destroyed, along with the animals upon whom they depend. So, when the logging camp moves, there's nothing left. We talked already about the loss of human cultural diversity, and I've seen it happening with my own eyes. And the grim picture in Africa — I love Africa, and what do we see in Africa? We see deforestation; we see the desert spreading; we see massive hunger; we see disease and we see population growth in areas where there are more people living on a certain piece of land than the land can possibly support, and they're too poor to buy food from elsewhere. Were the people that we heard about yesterday, on the Easter Island, who cut down their last tree — were they stupid? Didn't they know what was happening? Of course, but if you've seen the crippling poverty in some of these parts of the world it isn't a question of ""Let's leave the tree for tomorrow."" ""How am I going to feed my family today? Maybe I can get just a few dollars from this last tree which will keep us going a little bit longer, and then we'll pray that something will happen to save us from the inevitable end."" So, this is a pretty grim picture. The one thing we have, which makes us so different from chimpanzees or other living creatures, is this sophisticated spoken language — a language with which we can tell children about things that aren't here. We can talk about the distant past, plan for the distant future, discuss ideas with each other, so that the ideas can grow from the accumulated wisdom of a group. We can do it by talking to each other; we can do it through video; we can do it through the written word. And we are abusing this great power we have to be wise stewards, and we're destroying the world. In the developed world, in a way, it's worse, because we have so much access to knowledge of the stupidity of what we're doing. Do you know, we're bringing little babies into a world where, in many places, the water is poisoning them? And the air is harming them, and the food that's grown from the contaminated land is poisoning them. And that's not just in the far-away developing world; that's everywhere. Do you know we all have about 50 chemicals in our bodies we didn't have about 50 years ago? And so many of these diseases, like asthma and certain kinds of cancers, are on the increase around places where our filthy toxic waste is dumped. We're harming ourselves around the world, as well as harming the animals, as well as harming nature herself — Mother Nature, that brought us into being; Mother Nature, where I believe we need to spend time, where there's trees and flowers and birds for our good psychological development. And yet, there are hundreds and hundreds of children in the developed world who never see nature, because they're growing up in concrete and all they know is virtual reality, with no opportunity to go and lie in the sun, or in the forest, with the dappled sun-specks coming down from the canopy above. As I was traveling around the world, you know, I had to leave the forest — that's where I love to be. I had to leave these fascinating chimpanzees for my students and field staff to continue studying because, finding they dwindled from about two million 100 years ago to about 150,000 now, I knew I had to leave the forest to do what I could to raise awareness around the world. And the more I talked about the chimpanzees' plight, the more I realized the fact that everything's interconnected, and the problems of the developing world so often stem from the greed of the developed world, and everything was joining together, and making — not sense, hope lies in sense, you said — it's making a nonsense. How can we do it? Somebody said that yesterday. And as I was traveling around, I kept meeting young people who'd lost hope. They were feeling despair, they were feeling, ""Well, it doesn't matter what we do; eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die. Everything is hopeless — we're always being told so by the media."" And then I met some who were angry, and anger that can turn to violence, and we're all familiar with that. And I have three little grandchildren, and when some of these students would say to me at high school or university, they'd say, ""We're angry,"" or ""We're filled with despair, because we feel you've compromised our future, and there's nothing we can do about it."" And I looked in the eyes of my little grandchildren, and think how much we've harmed this planet since I was their age. I feel this deep shame, and that's why in 1991 in Tanzania, I started a program that's called Roots and Shoots. There's little brochures all around outside, and if any of you have anything to do with children and care about their future, I beg that you pick up that brochure. And Roots and Shoots is a program for hope. Roots make a firm foundation. Shoots seem tiny, but to reach the sun they can break through brick walls. See the brick walls as all the problems that we've inflicted on this planet. Then, you see, it is a message of hope. Hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through, and can make this a better world. And the most important message of Roots and Shoots is that every single individual makes a difference. Every individual has a role to play. Every one of us impacts the world around us everyday, and you scientists know that you can't actually — even if you stay in bed all day, you're breathing oxygen and giving out CO2, and probably going to the loo, and things like that — you're making a difference in the world. So, the Roots and Shoots program involves youth in three kinds of projects. And these are projects to make the world around them a better place. One project to show care and concern for your own human community. One for animals, including domestic animals — and I have to say, I learned everything I know about animal behavior even before I got to Gombe and the chimps from my dog, Rusty, who was my childhood companion. And the third kind of project: something for the local environment. So what the kids do depends first of all, how old are they — and we go now from pre-school right through university. It's going to depend whether they're inner-city or rural. It's going to depend if they're wealthy or impoverished. It's going to depend which part, say, of America they're in. We're in every state now, and the problems in Florida are different from the problems in New York. It's going to depend on which country they're in — and we're already in 60-plus countries, with about 5,000 active groups — and there are groups all over the place that I keep hearing about that I've never even heard of, because the kids are taking the program and spreading it themselves. Why? Because they're buying into it, and they're the ones who get to decide what they're going to do. It isn't something that their parents tell them, or their teachers tell them. That's effective, but if they decide themselves, ""We want to clean this river and put the fish back that used to be there. We want to clear away the toxic soil from this area and have an organic garden. We want to go and spend time with the old people and hear their stories and record their oral histories. We want to go and work in a dog shelter. We want to learn about animals. We want ... "" You know, it goes on and on, and this is very hopeful for me. As I travel around the world 300 days a year, everywhere there's a group of Roots and Shoots of different ages. Everywhere there are children with shining eyes saying, ""Look at the difference we've made."" And now comes the technology into it, because with this new way of communicating electronically these kids can communicate with each other around the world. And if anyone is interested to help us, we've got so many ideas but we need help — we need help to create the right kind of system that will help these young people to communicate their excitement. But also — and this is so important — to communicate their despair, to say, ""We've tried this and it doesn't work, and what shall we do?"" And then, lo and behold, there's another group answering these kids who may be in America, or maybe this is a group in Israel, saying, ""Yeah, you did it a little bit wrong. This is how you should do it."" The philosophy is very simple. We do not believe in violence. No violence, no bombs, no guns. That's not the way to solve problems. Violence leads to violence, at least in my view. So how do we solve? The tools for solving the problems are knowledge and understanding. Know the facts, but see how they fit in the big picture. Hard work and persistence —don't give up — and love and compassion leading to respect for all life. How many more minutes? Two, one? Chris Anderson: One — one to two. Jane Goodall: Two, two, I'm going to take two. (Laughter) Are you going to come and drag me off? (Laughter) Anyway — so basically, Roots and Shoots is beginning to change young people's lives. It's what I'm devoting most of my energy to. And I believe that a group like this can have a very major impact, not just because you can share technology with us, but because so many of you have children. And if you take this program out, and give it to your children, they have such a good opportunity to go out and do good, because they've got parents like you. And it's been so clear how much you all care about trying to make this world a better place. It's very encouraging. But the kids do ask me — and this won't take more than two minutes, I promise — the kids say, ""Dr. Jane, do you really have hope for the future? You travel, you see all these horrible things happening."" Firstly, the human brain — I don't need to say anything about that. Now that we know what the problems are around the world, human brains like yours are rising to solve those problems. And we've talked a lot about that. Secondly, the resilience of nature. We can destroy a river, and we can bring it back to life. We can see a whole area desolated, and it can be brought back to bloom again, with time or a little help. And thirdly, the last speaker talked about — or the speaker before last, talked about the indomitable human spirit. We are surrounded by the most amazing people who do things that seem to be absolutely impossible. Nelson Mandela — I take a little piece of limestone from Robben Island Prison, where he labored for 27 years, and came out with so little bitterness, he could lead his people from the horror of apartheid without a bloodbath. Even after the 11th of September — and I was in New York and I felt the fear — nevertheless, there was so much human courage, so much love and so much compassion. And then as I went around the country after that and felt the fear — the fear that was leading to people feeling they couldn't worry about the environment any more, in case they seemed not to be patriotic — and I was trying to encourage them, somebody came up with a little quotation from Mahatma Gandhi, ""If you look back through human history, you see that every evil regime has been overcome by good."" And just after that a woman brought me this little bell, and I want to end on this note. She said, ""If you're talking about hope and peace, ring this. This bell is made from metal from a defused landmine, from the killing fields of Pol Pot — one of the most evil regimes in human history — where people are now beginning to put their lives back together after the regime has crumbled. So, yes, there is hope, and where is the hope? Is it out there with the politicians? It's in our hands. It's in your hands and my hands and those of our children. It's really up to us. We're the ones who can make a difference. If we lead lives where we consciously leave the lightest possible ecological footprints, if we buy the things that are ethical for us to buy and don't buy the things that are not, we can change the world overnight. Thank you."	"各位早上好。首先，我感覺，太棒了這幾天在這太棒了。其次，我覺得能夠最後出場是我莫大的榮幸面對這麼一群了不起的人他們剛才的演講非常精彩。我發現，在很多方面我很贊同我所聽到的一些事情。我從厄瓜多最茂密的原始森林直接飛到了這裡。我工作的地方-只有乘直升飛機可以到達-那裡的土著人臉上塗著染料戴著鸚鵡羽毛做成的頭飾。在那裡，他們盡力阻止石油公司進入森林，不讓他們在森林裡鋪路。他們在鬥爭，竭力在維持他們自己的生活方式維持一種潔淨、沒有被污染，沒有被毒害的環境。我感到很神奇的是，這一點恰好與TED的話題相一致，在那裡，就在熱帶雨林的正中央，有一些太陽能設備-是厄瓜多那一地區最早的-主要用來抽水這樣婦女們就不用下山挑水。那裡的水是很乾淨的，因為他們發到了很多電，他們就能夠存儲這些電。所以每一家-我記得那裡有8戶人家在這個小社區裏面，能夠用上電燈我覺得每天晚上大概可以維持半個小時。他們的酋長，穿著土著的服裝，卻有一台筆記型電腦。（笑）這個人，曾經離開村莊，最終他又回來，他說，“你看，我們一下子跳到了一個新的時代，50年前，我們甚至不知道有白種人，現在我們卻用著筆記本電腦，我們想向現代社會學習很多東西。我們想瞭解醫療保健。我們想知道其他地方的人在做什麽-我們確實很好奇。我們也想學別國的語言。我們想學習英語、法語、或許還可以學中文，我們很擅長學習語言。“他用著小小的筆記型電腦，對抗著來自外界強大的壓力這些壓力主要來自厄瓜多大量的國外貸款-需要對抗來自世界銀行，貨幣基金組織的壓力同樣需要對抗那些想要破壞森林開採石油的人。所以，我從那裡直接飛到了這裡。當然，我真正的專業是研究另外一個物種的文明-我甚至不能將其稱為一種”文明“是另一種生活方式，另一種生物。我們之前討論過-韋德 戴衛斯之前做過的演講關於世界各個地區人們的文化但是這個世界不僅僅有我們人類組成，還有其他動物的存在。我想要帶給TED大會，正向我在世界上其他地方做的那樣，來自動物的聲音。通常我們只能看到一些照片，或者電影片段，但是這些動物有著代表特定意思的聲音。所以，我想帶給你們來自坦桑尼亞森林中黑猩猩的問候噢— 噢— ，噢，噢，噢！（掌聲）我從1960年就開始在坦桑尼亞研究黑猩猩。那時，也有一些現代技術這些技術深刻改變了野外生物學家做研究的方式。例如，許多年前，我們第一次實現了僅僅從動物排泄物來分析它們的DNA序列-我們第一次能夠確定哪隻雄性黑猩猩是某隻剛出生的黑猩猩的父親。因為黑猩猩的交配情況很複雜。這給黑猩猩研究開闢了一個新的時代。然後我們採用地面速度指示器-來確定黑猩猩的活動範圍。我們正在使用- 我對這些東西並不是非常在行-我們正在使用衛星成像技術來檢測這一地區的森林砍伐情況。當然，紅外線技術也在進步，我們可以夜間觀察這些動物，記錄畫面的攝影設備、錄音設備等變得更輕更好。所以，今天，我們能夠做很多，1960年所不能夠實現的東西。尤其是黑猩猩，或者其他那些腦容量較大的動物，當你在籠子裡觀察它們時，現代科技在用來研究這些動物的高層次認知等能力上，非常有幫助。現在我們知道，它們有能力完成一些在我剛開始做研究時認為完全不可能的任務。我認為世界上人工飼養最聰明的黑猩猩是來自日本的“艾”她名字的意思是愛她有一個非常敏銳的“夥伴”她愛她的電腦甚至會離開它的同伴、水源，森林和其他所有的東西。來坐在這台電腦跟前就像小孩喜歡電腦遊戲，她也上癮了。順帶一提，她已經28歲了，她用電腦螢幕和一個觸摸板來操作，速度能超過大部份人。她能夠完成很複雜的任務 — 今天沒有時間詳談，但是這隻黑猩猩最神奇的地方在於她不喜歡犯錯。當她任務完成了不好，得分很低時，她就會走過來，拍玻璃因為她看不到實驗觀察者意思就是想要再做一遍。她的注意力呢，能夠非常專心長達20分鐘，她會希望重新再做一遍，就是爲了能夠做的更好，得到這種滿足感。食物對她來說並不重要，她的獎勵是非常微薄的，例如每當她做出正確反應時，會得到個葡萄乾如果你提前告訴她不會得到什麽獎勵的話，她仍然會去做。所以我們就看到了，一隻操作電腦的黑猩猩。黑猩猩、大猩猩和猩猩都能夠學習人類的手勢語。關鍵是，當我1960年第一次到貢貝(奈及利亞)我記得非常清楚，就像昨天才發生當我第一次穿行在灌木叢中，黑猩猩在大多數時候還是會嚇得跑開，或許它們還不適應變化了的環境我看到一個黑色的影子，彎腰朝著一個白蟻丘，我用望遠鏡遠遠觀察著。很幸運地是，我觀察到一隻雄性黑猩猩，我叫他大偉老頭其實，那時候科學上，我不該給黑猩猩起名字，而是應該統一編號，那樣更加科學一些。回到大偉老頭-我看見他撿了一根草，用它把那些白蟻從地下洞穴中引出來。不僅如此，有時候他還會折一根有葉子的樹枝然後去掉葉子來“釣”白蟻。改變物品，使之更適合某種特殊用途也就是製作工具的開端呀。這個發現讓我非常激動的原因，是在那個時候，這是一個突破，那時認為人類，且只有人類，會製造和使用工具。我以前唸書，人類被定義為會製作工具的。所以當我的導師，路易斯利基，聽說了我的發現以後，他說：“啊，現在我們得重新定義人類，重新定義工具了，要不然就接受""黑猩猩也是人""為事實。“（笑）我們現在瞭解到僅僅在貢貝，就發現了黑猩猩可以用九種不同的方式來使用工具達到特定目的。此外，我們知道在非洲許多地區，只要研究過那裡的黑猩猩，就會發現完全不同的實用工具的行為。因為似乎這些行為是一代一代傳下來的，通過觀察、模仿和練習學會的。也就是人類文化的定義。在過去四十多年里我和其他研究黑猩猩研究類人猿，或者說研究其他具有複雜大腦和社會系統的哺乳動物的學者，我們發現，並沒有一條清晰的分界線能夠把人類和其他動物區分開來。這條線非常彎曲。每當我們發現動物能夠做那些我們自大認為，只有人類能做的事時，這條界線就越彎曲。黑猩猩，我們沒有時間討論它們讓人著迷的生活有漫長的童年，它們有五年的時間用來吃奶、與母親同睡，之後另外的三年、四年或者五年、仍然從感情上依賴者母親，有時甚至直到下一代出生。這一段時間，學習對它們來說非常重要，因為這時行為是可塑的，在黑猩猩的社會裡，要學的東西非常多。這種長時間的情感支持聯繫這種聯繫是來自漫長童年期中與母親、其他的兄弟姐妹逐漸形成的，能夠維持一生，有時會持續到60歲。人工飼養的黑猩猩可以活到60多歲，而我們的研究只有40年。我們發現黑猩猩有著真正的同情和利他能力。這一點我們是從他們的非語言交流中發現的，這種交流的內容非常豐富它們有很多種聲音，在不同的環境中使用不同的聲音，此外它們還用接觸、手勢、姿勢來交流它們到底會做什麽呢？它們接吻、擁抱、握手。它們會拍著另外一個同伴的背，它們會大搖大擺地走來走去，揮舞它們的拳頭它們會做這些我們通常做的動作它們在相似的情景下也在做這些動作。它們有著非常複雜的合作行為。有時候它們也會打獵，雖然時候不多，但是每當它們打獵時，就會表現出高超的合作，它們會分享獵物。我們發現它們會表露感情，這些感情與我們用來描述高興、沮喪、害怕和絕望的詞有些類似，甚至是一樣。它們懂得心理和身體的痛苦。我也沒有時間來講那些能夠證明我所說的例子，我打算把時間節省下來講一下有很多著名大學的優秀學生在研究動物的情感和個性。我們知道黑猩猩和其他一些動物能夠認出鏡子中的自己，區分自己與他人。它們有幽默感，而幽默感過去被認為只有人類才具有的。這教給我一種新的尊重，不僅僅是對黑猩猩的尊重，我覺得，也是對與我們共住在地球上的其他神奇動物的尊重。一旦我們準備好承認這一點，也就是我們不僅僅是唯一有個性、思想、和以上提到的各種情緒感受的人，我們就會開始反思，那些我們利用、虐待這個星球上那些感覺敏銳、聰明伶俐動物的行為，我們會感到深深地羞愧，至少我是這樣。非常遺憾的是，這些黑猩猩，教會了我們如何謙虛的野生黑猩猩，正在迅速地消失。它們消失的原因，相信在座的人都非常清楚。人口增加需要開墾更多土地，砍伐更多樹木。它們消失是因為很多伐木公司，到森林裡砍盡了所有的樹木。它們從核心聚居地非洲消失了因為大跨國伐木公司到了那裡，到處造路就像他們在厄瓜多所做的一樣，以及在其他那些森林尚未砍伐的地方一樣，去開採石油或者森林。這使得剛果盆地，以及世界上許多其他地方，出現了很多眾所周知的“野生肉”。這意味著雖然在過去的幾百年、甚至幾千年，居住在森林中的人們，無論其習俗如何，都能夠與世界和諧相處，只獵殺足夠他們自己和家人吃的動物肉。現在，突然間，因為有了道路，獵人可以從鎮上進入森林中。他們朝著所有的動物開槍，只要是會動的比小老鼠大一點點的動物他們都獵殺，之後風乾或火烤。現在有了交通工具，他們把這些動物裝到運木材的卡車上或是裝礦石的車上，運到鎮上去賣掉這些動物。人們會付比買飼養的動物更多的錢，來買野生肉，因為他們較喜歡這種肉。但這不是永續的行為，森林裡的大型伐木公司要求肉類食物，因此，剛果盆地的匹格米獵人，這些人數百年來的生活方式現在都走樣了。他們有武器，為伐木公司打獵，伐木公司付他們錢。他們的文化已經遭到了破壞，他們賴以生存的動物也面臨滅絕。當伐木公司搬走之後，所有東西都失去了。我們之前談到過人類文化多樣性的喪失，我親眼見到了。非洲現在的現實非常殘酷，我熱愛非洲，我們在非洲看到了什麽呢？我們看到森林砍伐，看到沙漠擴張、大範圍的飢餓情況我們看到了疾病、人口的膨脹在一塊地方居住的人們超過了土地所能承受的能力，他們太窮了，從任何別的地方都買不起食物。我們昨天聽到的那些，在復活節島上居住的人們，砍掉了最後一棵樹-他們笨嗎？難道他們不知道當前的情形嗎？他們當然知道，但當你看過拖垮一切的貧窮在這些地區的樣貌“為未來保留樹木”對他們來說不會是選項。我今天如何餵飽我的家人?或許我可以從最後那棵樹上得到幾美元能夠讓我們多活幾天，然後祈禱會有一些改變將我們從不可避免的毀滅中解救出來。“所以，這幅景象非常淒慘。我們所擁有的，使我們區別於黑猩猩或者其他動物的是，這種複雜的口語通過這種語言我們可以教我們的孩子那些不在眼前的事物。我們能討論過去的事情，也能計劃遙遠的未來，彼此交流思想，由此，群體裡積聚的智慧得以延伸、擴展。我們可以通過彼此交談獲得智慧，我們可以通過影響、通過記錄的文字實現。我們正在濫用這種應該得到謹慎使用的能力，我們正在破壞世界。在某種程度上，發達國家的情況更糟，因為我們有更多機會去意識我們正在做的事情的愚昧。你知道嗎？我們正在把小孩帶到一個，水會毒害他們、空氣會傷害他們，莊稼長在被污染了的土地上，長出的食物將會毒害他們。這種現象不僅僅在遙遠的發展中國家，而是遍佈各地。你知道嗎？顯著我們體內有50種化學物質爾這些物質在50年前是我們身體裏面沒有的？疾病中的許多種，例如哮喘和某些特定癌癥的患病率在上升發生在那些亂扔有毒垃圾的地方。世界各地的人都在毒害自己，傷害著動物，也傷害了自然界本身。大自然，孕育了我們。大自然，這個我們花時間的地方，那些花兒、鳥兒、樹木對我們的心理健康發展都很有幫助。然而，在發達國家，有成千的孩子從未見過大自然，他們在水泥叢林中長大，他們僅僅知道虛擬世界，沒有機會走出房間，曬曬太陽，或者到森林裡，看看斑駁的樹影從似穹窿的樹冠上灑下來。當我在世界各地旅遊時，我就得離開這些森林-我最喜歡待在那裡了。我不得不離開那些令人著迷的黑猩猩留著讓我的學生和野外的同事繼續研究因為，當發現它們從100年前的兩百萬隻銳減到現在的十五萬隻，我明白我必須離開森林去做我力所能及的來提升全人類的意識。我講述黑猩猩狀況的次數越多，我就越會發現每件事都是內在關聯的，發展中國家的問題很多時候都起源於發達國家的貪婪，當每件事情綜合到一起時，會產生——不是意義，我們希望它變得有意義——爾是荒唐。我們如何改變這一點？昨天有人說，每當我到處旅行時，我都會堅持與那些失去希望的年輕人見面。他們感覺很絕望，他們認為，”好吧，無論我們做什麽，吃、喝、結婚，早晚有一天還是要死的。每件事情都是沒有意義，我們通常從媒體上看到的都是這樣。”有時我會碰到很生氣的人，這種憤怒會轉化為暴力，我們對此都很熟悉。我有三個小孫子孫女，在高中或大學授課的時候有些學生會對我說，“我們很憤怒。”或者是“我們非常絕望，因為你們破壞了我們的前途，而我們又無能為力。”我看著我這些孫子，想著自從我還是他們年紀到現在，我們對地球造成了多少傷害。我感到深深地愧疚，這也是為什麽在1991年，在坦桑尼亞，我們開創了一個項目，叫做“根與芽”。外面有很多小冊子，如果你需要幫助孩子或者關心他們的未來，我請求你們帶走一冊。“根與芽”是關於希望的項目。根能建立堅實的基礎。芽看起來非常微小，但是爲了接受太陽光，它們能夠衝破磚牆。把這些磚牆比作所有的問題那些這個星球上所有困擾我們的問題所以，你能看出來，它傳遞著希望。世界各地成百上千的年輕人能夠突破這些困擾，創造一個更美好的世界。根與芽想傳遞的最重要的信念是每個人的努力都很有意義。每個人都有角色需要扮演。我們每天都會影響到這個世界，你們這些科學家都知道，即不可能完全，即使你整天躺在床上，你也在呼入氧氣，呼出二氧化碳，上廁所，以及其他這些事情。你在幫助改變世界。所以，根與芽項目有三種項目可以讓年輕人參與。這些項目能夠把他們周圍的世界變得更加美好。一項就是向你所在的人類社區表示關懷和友愛。一項是動物方面的，包括那些家禽-這裡我不得不提，我學到的所有關於動物行為的知識在我到貢貝接觸那些黑猩猩前，是從我的狗Rusty身上學到的，它是我童年的玩伴。第三項，是爲當地環境所做的事情。所以小孩子能做什麽，首先取決於他們多大-我們現在包括了學前兒童到大學生。根據他們是來自城區或者鄉下。根據他們是富裕還是貧窮。還根據他們在美國的那個地區。我們的機構現在遍佈各個州，佛羅里達的問題不同於紐約的問題。也根據他們的所在國家我們機構遍佈超過60個國家，約五千個活動團體—我經常從各地的團體中聽說一些，我以前從未聽說過的：孩子們正在參與這個項目，主動在宣傳這個項目。爲什麽？因為他們相信我們所做的事情，他們是決定自己想要做什麽的人。不是父母告訴他們這樣去做，或者是老師教導他們來做。儘管老師和父母的教導更有效，但是如果是他們自己決定，“我們想把河水變清，讓魚回到它們原來在的地方。我們想清理這一地區有毒的土壤，建造一個有機的花園。我們想去到養老院，花時間陪伴那些老年人聽他們講年輕時的故事，記錄他們說出的歷史。我們想給流浪狗搭建狗窩。我們想瞭解動物。我們想......""你知道，這會不斷繼續下去。對我而言，我覺得很有希望。一年有300天我在世界給地奔波，每個地區都有不同年齡群組成的根與芽團體。每個地方都有那些忽閃著大眼睛的小孩跟我說，”看我們的努力帶來了多大的變化呀。”現在有了現代科技可以利用，因為有了電子通訊設備這些孩子可以和世界各地的夥伴交流。如果有人有意幫助我們，我們確實有著很多想法但是我們需要幫忙，來建立新的、正確的機制幫助這些年輕人傳達他們興奮的心情。此外，這一點非常重要，傳達出他們的絕望，有人曾說過，“我們已經試過但沒有用，我們到底該怎麼辦？”之後，就會有別的團體，答覆這些發問的人回答的人可能來自美國，亦或是來自以色列，回答說，“你做的有點不正確，應該這麼做...”這個邏輯非常簡單。我們不相信暴力。沒有暴力，沒有炸彈，沒有槍支。那些不是解決問題的辦法。暴力只能帶來暴力，至少我認為是這樣。那我們該如何解決問題呢？解決問題的工具就是知識與理解。瞭解事實，並且知道這些知識該如何在大環境下加以運用。努力工作，堅持下來-不要放棄愛和同情會帶來對所有生命的尊重。我還有多久時間？兩分鐘？一分鐘？克里斯安德森：一到兩分鐘。珍古德：兩分鐘吧，給我兩分鐘。（笑）你會上來把我拉下去嗎？（笑）無論如何-基本上，根與芽逐漸在改變年輕人的生活。我現在最多的時間都是在做這個。我相信，像這樣的團體能夠發揮很大的作用，不僅僅是因為你我可以共享技術，而是因為你們這麼多人都有孩子。如果你把這計畫講給其他人，講給你的孩子，他們就會有這麼好的機會走出去，做善事，因為他們有像你們這樣善良的父母。你們非常關心如何把世界變得更美好，這是顯而易見的。很鼓舞人心。孩子們問我-接下來要說的不會超過兩分鐘，我保證-這些孩子們說 “珍博士，你對未來抱有希望嗎？因為你四處旅行，看到過那麼多恐怖的事情。”首先，人類有聰明的大腦—這不用我說。我們既然知道了世界上存在的問題，像你們這樣的人就會站出來解決那些問題。關於這一點，我們剛才已經講了很多。第二，大自然有一定的自我修復能力。我們能夠污染河流，我們也能夠把它恢復生機。我們看到有些地區完全荒蕪了，隨著時間，隨著我們的努力，它能夠重新變回綠洲。第三，上一個演講者，或者是上上一個，談到過人類不屈的精神。我們周圍有很許多讓人不可思議的人他們能夠完成完全不可能的任務。我從羅本島監獄— 曼德拉（南非前總統）被監禁的地方取到了一些石灰石，曼德拉被關了27年，他卻很少受到這段悲慘遭遇的影響，他出獄後就能夠帶領他的人民沒有流血打仗就成功地擺脫了種族隔離。在911之後，我當時在紐約我感到非常恐懼— 然而，無論如何，人民的勇氣還是巨大的，有著許許多多的愛和同情。之後，我到了全國各地，又一次感覺到恐懼-那種讓人們感覺到他們不能再把心思花在環境上，因為就會被認為不愛國的恐懼我試圖去鼓勵他們，有些人引用甘地的話回應我，""如果你回望人類的歷史，你會發現，所有邪惡的政權最終都被優秀的政權取代。“在那之後，一位婦女給我帶來了這只小鈴鐺，我想以此這張字條結束。她說，”當你談論起希望和安寧時，請搖這個鈴。這個鈴是用拆除的炸彈做成的，取自波布執政時的戰場(柬埔寨)—人類歷史上最邪惡的政權之一，現在，那些政權被剷除以後人民的生活重新恢復正常。所以，希望是有的，在哪裡呢？是在政治家那裡嗎？不，是在我們手裡。在你我的手裡在孩子們的手裡。希望取決於我們。我們才是能夠改變世界的人。如果我們在生活中，自覺地把對生態的破壞降到最低，如果我們只買那些製作符合道德的東西，拒買那些不道德的，在很短時間內，我們就能夠做出改變。謝謝大家。"
