Talk	en	zh-tw
janine_shepherd_a_broken_body_isn_t_a_broken_person	"Life is about opportunities — creating them and embracing them. And for me, that was the Olympic dream. That's what defined me. That was my bliss. As a cross-country skier and member of the Australian ski team headed towards the Winter Olympics, I was on a training bike ride with my fellow teammates. As we made our way up towards the spectacular Blue Mountains west of Sydney, it was the perfect autumn day: sunshine, the smell of eucalypt and a dream. Life was good. We'd been on our bikes for around five-and-a-half hours when we got to the part of the ride that I loved, and that was the hills, because I loved the hills. I got up off the seat of my bike and I started pumping my legs, and as I sucked in the cold mountain air, I could feel it burning my lungs, and I looked up to see the sun shining in my face. And then everything went black. Where was I? What was happening? My body was consumed by pain. I'd been hit by a speeding utility truck with only 10 minutes to go on the bike ride. I was airlifted from the scene of the accident by a rescue helicopter to a large spinal unit in Sydney. I had extensive and life-threatening injuries. I'd broken my neck and my back in six places. I broke five ribs on my left side. I broke my right arm. I broke my collarbone. I broke some bones in my feet. My whole right side was ripped open, filled with gravel. My head was cut open across the front, lifted back, exposing the skull underneath. I had head injures. I had internal injuries. I had massive blood loss. In fact, I lost about five liters of blood, which is all someone my size would actually hold. By the time the helicopter arrived at Prince Henry Hospital in Sydney, my blood pressure was 40 over nothing. I was having a really bad day. (Laughter) For over 10 days, I drifted between two dimensions. I had an awareness of being in my body, but also being out of my body, somewhere else, watching from above, as if it was happening to someone else. Why would I want to go back to a body that was so broken? But this voice kept calling me: ""Come on, stay with me."" ""No, it's too hard."" ""Come on. This is our opportunity."" ""No. That body is broken. It can no longer serve me."" ""Come on. Stay with me. We can do it. We can do it together."" I was at a crossroads. I knew if I didn't return to my body, I'd have to leave this world forever. It was the fight of my life. After 10 days, I made the decision to return to my body. And the internal bleeding stopped. The next concern was whether I would walk again, because I was paralyzed from the waist down. They said to my parents that the neck break was a stable fracture, but the back was completely crushed: the vertebra at L1 was like you'd dropped a peanut, stepped on it, smashed it into thousands of pieces. They'd have to operate. They went in. They put me on a beanbag. They cut me — literally cut me in half. I have a scar that wraps around my entire body. They picked as much broken bone as they could that had lodged in my spinal cord. They took out two of my broken ribs and they rebuilt my back — L1, they rebuilt it, they took out another broken rib, they fused T12, L1 and L2 together. Then they stitched me up; they took an entire hour to stitch me up. I woke up in intensive care, and the doctors were really excited that the operation had been a success, because at that stage, I had a little bit of movement in one of my big toes, and I thought, ""Great, because I'm going to the Olympics!"" (Laughter) I had no idea. That's the sort of thing that happens to someone else, not me, surely. But then the doctor came over to me and she said, ""Janine, the operation was a success, and we've picked as much bone out of your spinal cord as we could. But the damage is permanent. The central nervous system nerves — there is no cure. You're what we call a partial paraplegic, and you'll have all of the injuries that go along with that. You'll have no feeling from the waist down, and at most, you might get 10 or 20 percent return. You'll have internal injuries for the rest of your life. You'll have to use a catheter for the rest of your life. And if you walk again, it will be with calipers and a walking frame."" And then she said, ""Janine, you'll have to rethink everything you do in your life, because you're never going to be able to do the things you did before."" (Gasps) I tried to grasp what she was saying. I was an athlete. That's all I knew. That's all I'd done. If I couldn't do that, then what could I do? And the question I asked myself is: If I couldn't do that, then who was I? They moved me from intensive care to acute spinal. I was lying on a thin, hard spinal bed. I had no movement in my legs. I had tight stockings on to protect from blood clots. I had one arm in plaster, one arm tied down by drips. I had a neck brace and sandbags on either side of my head and I saw my world through a mirror that was suspended above my head. I shared the ward with five other people, and the amazing thing is, because we were all lying paralyzed in a spinal ward, we didn't know what each other looked like. How amazing is that? How often in life do you get to make friendships, judgment-free, purely based on spirit? And there were no superficial conversations as we shared our innermost thoughts, our fears, and our hopes for life after the spinal ward. I remember one night, one of the nurses came in, Jonathan, with a whole lot of plastic straws. He put a pile on top of each of us, and he said, ""Start threading them together."" Well, there wasn't much else to do in the spinal ward, so we did. (Laughter) And when we'd finished, he went around silently and he joined all of the straws up till it looped around the whole ward. And then he said, ""OK everybody, hold on to your straws."" And we did. And he said, ""Right ... Now we're all connected."" And as we held on and we breathed as one, we knew we weren't on this journey alone. And even lying paralyzed in the spinal ward ... there were moments of incredible depth and richness, of authenticity and connection that I had never experienced before. And each of us knew that when we left the spinal ward, we would never be the same. After six months, it was time to go home. I remember Dad pushing me outside in my wheelchair, wrapped in a plaster body cast, and feeling the sun on my face for the first time. I soaked it up and I thought, ""How could I ever have taken this for granted?"" I felt so incredibly grateful for my life. But before I left hospital, the head nurse had said to me, ""Janine, I want you to be ready, because when you get home, something's going to happen."" And I said, ""What?"" And she said, ""You're going to get depressed."" And I said, ""Not me, not Janine the Machine,"" which was my nickname. She said, ""You are, because, see, it happens to everyone. In the spinal ward, that's normal. You're in a wheelchair. That's normal. But you're going to get home and realize how different life is."" And I got home. And something happened. I realized Sister Sam was right. I did get depressed. I was in my wheelchair. I had no feeling from the waist down, attached to a catheter bottle. I couldn't walk. I'd lost so much weight in hospital, I now weighed about 80 pounds. And I wanted to give up. All I wanted to do was put my running shoes on and run out the door. I wanted my old life back. I wanted my body back. And I can remember Mom sitting on the end of my bed and saying, ""I wonder if life will ever be good again."" And I thought, ""How could it? Because I've lost everything that I valued, everything that I'd worked towards. Gone."" And the question I asked was, ""Why me? Why me?"" And then I remembered my friends that were still in the spinal ward, particularly Maria. Maria was in a car accident, and she woke up on her 16th birthday to the news that she was a complete quadriplegic, had no movement from the neck down, had damage to her vocal chords, and she couldn't talk. They told me, ""We're going to move you next to her because we think it will be good for her."" I was worried. I didn't know how I'd react to being next to her. I knew it would be challenging, but it was actually a blessing, because Maria always smiled. She was always happy, and even when she began to talk again, albeit difficult to understand, she never complained, not once. And I wondered how had she ever found that level of acceptance. And I realized that this wasn't just my life; it was life itself. I realized that this wasn't just my pain; it was everybody's pain. And then I knew, just like before, that I had a choice: I could keep fighting this, or I could let go and accept not only my body, but the circumstances of my life. And then I stopped asking, ""Why me?"" And I started to ask, ""Why not me?"" And then I thought to myself, maybe being at rock bottom is actually the perfect place to start. I had never before thought of myself as a creative person. I was an athlete; my body was a machine. But now I was about to embark on the most creative project that any of us could ever do: that of rebuilding a life. And even though I had absolutely no idea what I was going to do, in that uncertainty came a sense of freedom. I was no longer tied to a set path. I was free to explore life's infinite possibilities. And that realization was about to change my life. Sitting at home in my wheelchair and my plaster body cast, an airplane flew overhead. I looked up, and I thought to myself, ""That's it! If I can't walk, then I might as well fly."" (Laughter) I said, ""Mom, I'm going to learn how to fly."" She said, ""That's nice, dear."" (Laughter) I said, ""Pass me the yellow pages."" She passed me the phone book, I rang up the flying school, I said I'd like to make a booking to come out for a flight. They said, ""When do you want to come out?"" I said, ""Well, I have to get a friend to drive me because I can't drive. Sort of can't walk, either. Is that a problem?"" I made a booking, and weeks later, my friend Chris and my mom drove me out to the airport, all 80 pounds of me covered in a plaster body cast in a baggy pair of overalls. (Laughter) I can tell you, I did not look like the ideal candidate to get a pilot's license. (Laughter) I'm holding on to the counter because I can't stand. I said, ""Hi, I'm here for a flying lesson."" They took one look and ran out the back to draw short straws. ""You get her."" ""No, no, you take her."" Finally a guy goes, ""Hi, I'm Andrew. I'm going to take you flying."" I go, ""Great!"" They get me out on the tarmac, and there was this red, white and blue airplane — it was beautiful. They had to slide me up on the wing to put me in the cockpit. They sat me down. There are buttons and dials everywhere. I'm going, ""Wow, how do you ever know what all these buttons and dials do?"" Andrew got in the front, started the plane, and said, ""Would you like to have a go at taxiing?"" That's when you use your feet to control the rudder pedals to control the airplane on the ground. I said, ""No, I can't use my legs."" He went, ""Oh."" I said, ""But I can use my hands,"" and he said, ""OK."" So he got over to the runway, and he applied the power. And as we took off down the runway, and the wheels lifted up off the tarmac, and we became airborne, I had the most incredible sense of freedom. And Andrew said to me, as we got over the training area, ""You see that mountain over there?"" And I said, ""Yeah."" And he said, ""Well, you take the controls, and you fly towards that mountain."" And as I looked up, I realized that he was pointing towards the Blue Mountains, where the journey had begun. And I took the controls, and I was flying. And I was a long, long way from that spinal ward. I knew right then that I was going to be a pilot. Didn't know how on Earth I'd ever pass a medical. (Laughter) But I'd worry about that later, because right now, I had a dream. So I went home, I got a training diary out, and I had a plan. And I practiced my walking as much as I could, and I went from the point of two people holding me up ... to one person holding me up ... to the point where I could walk around the furniture as long as it wasn't too far apart. And then I made great progression, to the point where I could walk around the house, holding onto the walls, like this. And Mom said she was forever following me, wiping off my fingerprints. (Laughter) But at least she always knew where I was. (Laughter) So while the doctors continued to operate and put my body back together again, I went on with my theory study. And then eventually, amazingly, I passed my pilot's medical, and that was my green light to fly. And I spent every moment I could out at that flying school, way out of my comfort zone, all these young guys that wanted to be Qantas pilots, you know, and little old hop-along me in first my plaster cast, and then my steel brace, my baggy overalls, my bag of medication and catheters and my limp. They use to look at me and think, ""Oh, who is she kidding? She's never going to be able to do this."" And sometimes I thought that, too. But that didn't matter, because now there was something inside that burned that far outweighed my injuries. And little goals kept me going along the way, and eventually I got my private pilot's license. Then I learned to navigate, and I flew my friends around Australia. And then I learned to fly an airplane with two engines and I got my twin-engine rating. And then I learned to fly in bad weather as well as fine weather, and got my instrument rating. And then I got my commercial pilot's license. And then I got my instructor rating. And then I found myself back at that same school where I'd gone for that very first flight, teaching other people how to fly ... just under 18 months after I'd left the spinal ward. (Applause) (Applause ends) And then I thought, ""Why stop there? Why not learn to fly upside down?"" (Laughter) And I did, and I learned to fly upside down and became an aerobatics flying instructor. (Laughter) And Mom and Dad? Never been up. (Laughter) But then I knew for certain that although my body might be limited, it was my spirit that was unstoppable. The philosopher Lao Tzu once said, ""When you let go of what you are, you become what you might be."" I now know that it wasn't until I let go of who I thought I was that I was able to create a completely new life. It wasn't until I let go of the life I thought I should have ... that I was able to embrace the life that was waiting for me. I now know that my real strength never came from my body. And although my physical capabilities have changed dramatically, who I am is unchanged. The pilot light inside of me was still alight, just as it is in each and every one of us. I know that I'm not my body. And I also know that you're not yours. And then it no longer matters what you look like, where you come from, or what you do for a living. All that matters is that we continue to fan the flame of humanity by living our lives as the ultimate creative expression of who we really are, because we are all connected by millions and millions of straws. And it's time to join those up and to hang on. And if we are to move towards our collective bliss ... it's time we shed our focus on the physical and instead embrace the virtues of the heart. So raise your straws if you'll join me. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)"	生命即是機會，在於創造與擁抱機會，而對我來說我的機會便是奧運夢它定義了我，也是我的福份。 身為一個朝冬季奧運目標前進的越野滑雪選手及澳洲滑雪隊成員，我當時正與隊友進行自行車訓練。我們騎向雪梨西邊景緻壯麗的藍山，那是一個絕美的秋天：陽光、桉樹的氣味、和心中懷著的夢想。生命無限美好。我們已經騎了五個半小時，我們來到我喜愛的部份：爬坡，我愛爬坡。我離開自行車座墊，雙腿使勁踩，大口吸著山裡清涼的空氣，感覺它在我胸膛沸騰。我抬頭，看著灑在我臉上的陽光。 接著，一切變得黑暗。我在哪裡？發生什麼事？我的身體疼痛不已。我在路程僅剩十分鐘時，被一台超速的貨卡車撞上。救援直升機將我空運離開事故地點，送到雪梨的一個大型脊髓中心。當時我渾身是傷，生命岌岌可危。我的脖子及背部斷成六截，左邊的肋骨斷了五根。我的右手臂斷了、鎖骨斷了，腳部有些骨頭也斷了。我右邊身體皮開肉綻，傷口上都是碎石子。我的頭部從前面被割破，頭皮向後掀，頭骨露了出來。我頭部創傷，也有內傷，還大量出血。事實上，我大約失血五公升，是像我這種身型的人，體內所有的血液。當直升機把我送到雪梨的新南威爾斯大學附設醫院時，我的血壓是40/0。那天真是倒楣。（笑聲） 事發後那十天，我不斷在兩個向度中來回飄盪。我意識到自己在身體裡，但同時也意識到自己在身體外的某處，從高處看著，好像事情發生在別人身上一樣。我為什麼要回到那個支離破碎的身體裡？ 但有個聲音不斷喚著我：「拜託，堅持下去。」 「不要，這太難了。」 「拜託，這是我們的機會。」 「不要，那個身體已經支離破碎，不堪使用了。」 「拜託，堅持下去。我們可以攜手度過難關的。」 我在人生的交叉口。我知道，如果我不回到自己的身體，我將會永遠離開人世。那是一場生命的博鬥。十天之後，我決定回到自己的身體裡，然後內出血就停止了。 接下來的煩惱是，我能不能再走路，因為我的腰部以下完全癱瘓。他們告訴我父母，我的脖子是穩定性骨折，但背部完全被碾碎。我的第一節腰椎，就像你把一顆花生丟在地上，踩上一腳，把它壓得粉碎。他們必須要動手術。進了手術室。他們把我放在固定墊上。把我切開，真的是把我切成一半，我身上有道繞了身體一圈的疤痕。他們盡可能將卡在我脊髓裡的碎骨頭挑出來。他們取出我兩根斷掉的肋骨，重建我的背部。重建第一節腰椎，然後再取出另一根斷掉的肋骨，把第十二節胸椎、第一節與第二節腰椎接在一起。然後他們幫我縫合。縫合工作花了一個小時才完成。我在加護病房醒過來，一醫生們對於手術成功感到非常興奮，因為我當時有一隻腳的大拇指可以微微移動，我想：「太好了，我可以去參加奧運了！」（笑聲）我當時以為，像這樣的事情壓根不會發生在我身上。 但醫生朝我走來，她說：「珍妮，手術雖然成功了，我們盡可能將脊髓裡的骨頭取出來，但這是一輩子的損傷，中樞神經系統的神經損傷，沒有任何方法可以治療。妳的情況，我們稱作部份下半身麻痺，所有下半身麻痺患者有的損傷，妳都會有。妳腰部以下沒有知覺，而最好的情況下，妳可能可以回復百分之十到二十的知覺。妳終其一生都會有內傷。妳一輩子都需要用導尿管。即使恢復行走，還是得用導尿管與助行器。」接著她說：「珍妮，妳必須重新思考人生中的每一件事，因為妳將永遠無法做妳以前能做的事情。」 我試著理解她所說的話。我是個運動員。那是我唯一懂得的事，也是唯一做過的事。如果我不能當運動員，那我還能做什麼？我問自己一個問題：如果我不能當運動員，那我到底是誰？ 他們將我從加護病房，轉到急性脊髓損傷病房。我躺在又薄又硬的脊髓病床上，我的雙腳動也不動。我穿著避免血栓的壓力襪。我一隻手臂裹著石膏，另一手打滿點滴，無法動彈。我戴著護頸，頭兩邊擺著固定墊。頭頂掛著的一面鏡子，看出去，就是我的世界。我與五個人共處一間病房，令人驚訝的是，因為我們都是躺在脊髓病房裡癱瘓的病人，我們不知道彼此長得是什麼樣子。很令人驚訝吧？人生中有多少機會能不帶著批判的眼光，單純只靠心領神會來與人交友？病房中沒有膚淺的對話，因為我們彼此分享內心最深處的想法、恐懼以及離開脊髓病房後，對生命的期盼。 我記得有一晚，一位叫強納生的護士走進來，手上拿著一堆塑膠吸管。他在我們每個人身上各放一把，他說：「開始把它們串起來。」嗯...反正在脊髓病房沒什麼事可做，所以我們就照做了。當我們完成了以後，他靜靜地在病房內走動。他把所有的吸管都接了起來直到它們在病房裡接成一圈，然後他說：「好了，大家，握住你的吸管。」我們照著做。然後他說：「這就對了。現在我們彼此相連了。」當我們握住吸管時，我們就像個生命共同體，我們知道這趟旅程中，我們並不孤單。即使癱躺在脊髓病房中，我們也感受過令人難以置信的深度與豐富性以及我過去從未體驗過的真實感與連結。我們每個人都知道，離開脊髓病房後，我們將不同於以往。 六個月之後，我準備回家了。我記得爸爸將輪椅上的我，推到室外，我身體裹著石膏，重新感受陽光照在我臉上的感覺。我沉浸在陽光裡，心想：我怎麼可能再把它視為理所當然的事?我對生命感到無比地感恩。但我離開醫院之前，護士長曾告訴我：「珍妮，我要妳做好心理準備，因為當妳回家後，某件事情將會發生。」我說：「什麼事？」她說：「妳會感到沮喪。」我說：「我才不會，機器人珍妮才不會沮喪。」機器人珍妮是我的綽號。她說：「妳會的，因為，每個人都是這樣。在脊髓病房，這種事很正常。妳現在坐輪椅，很正常。但妳回家後將會明白，生活有多麼不一樣。」 我回到家，某件事情發生了。我發現，莎曼珊修女說得沒錯。我真的變得沮喪。我在輪椅上，腰部以下沒有感覺，掛著導尿瓶。不能走路。我在醫院瘦了很多，我當時大概只有三十六公斤。我想放棄。我一心只想穿上跑鞋，跑出門外。我想要回到過去的生活，我想要我原來的身體。 我記得，媽媽坐在我的床尾，說：「不知道生命會不會再度變得美好。」 我心想：「怎麼可能？我重視的所有東西都沒了，我所努力的一切都失去了。消失了。」我問自己：「為什麼？為什麼是我？」 然後，我想起那些還在脊髓病房的朋友們，特別是瑪麗亞。瑪麗亞出了車禍，十六歲生日那天醒來時，迎接她的是，四肢完全麻痺的消息，頸部以下完全無法動彈，聲帶受傷，無法說話。他們告訴我：「我們要把妳移到她旁邊，我們覺得，這樣對她有好處。」我當時很擔心。我不知道在她旁邊我該作何反應。我知道這很有挑戰性，但其實，那是一種恩賜，因為瑪麗亞總是帶著笑容。她總是很開心，即使當她再度開口說話，儘管很難懂，她也從不抱怨，一次也沒。我很納悶，她為何有那麼高的接受度。 然後我明白，不是只有我一人的生命如此。而是生命本身。我明白，這不是只有我個人的痛苦。而是每個人的痛苦。然後我明白，就跟以前一樣，我是有選擇的。我可以繼續抗拒癱瘓這件事，或是我也可以放下，不只接受我的身體，也接受我人生的境遇。然後，我停止問自己：「為什麼是我？」我開始問：「為什麼不能是我？」接著我心想，或許谷底是一個重新開始的好地方。 過去，我從不認為自己是個有創意的人。我是個運動員，我的身體是一部機器。但現在，我要著手進行一件最具創意的事，一件任何人都能做的事：重建人生。雖然我對下一步，一點頭緒也沒有，但未知中一服自由的感受由然生出。我不再依循既定的道路我可以自由地探索人生的無限可能而那個領悟將改變我的人生。 我在家裡，坐在輪椅上，身體裹著石膏，一架飛機從上空飛過，我抬頭看，我心想：「就是這個！如果我不能走，那就用飛的。」我說：「媽，我要學飛行。」她說：「很好啊，親愛的。」（笑聲）我說：「把電話簿拿給我。」她把電話簿拿給我，我打電話給飛行學校。我訂了位，說我想要預訂飛行課程。他們說：「妳知道妳什麼時候要來嗎？」我說：「嗯...我得找個朋友載我去。因為我不能開車。也不太能走路。這樣行嗎？」我訂了課程，幾個星期後我的朋友克里斯跟我媽載我去機場，身體裹著石膏，三十六公斤的我，穿著一件鬆垮的工作褲。（笑聲）我可以告訴你，我看起來一點也不像可以拿到飛行員執照的料。（笑聲）我抓住在櫃台，因為我沒辦法站。我說：「嗨，我來參加飛行課程。」結果他們看了一眼，然後跑去抽籤，看誰倒楣。「你中了！」「不要，不要，你教她。」最後一個男人走出來，他說：「嗨，我是安德魯，我帶你去飛。」我說：「太好了。」然後他們載著我到停機坪，那兒停著一台紅白藍色相間的飛機。很美的飛機。他們把我抬到駕駛座艙。他們得把我推上機翼，然後把我放進駕駛座艙。他們讓我就座。四周都是按鈕跟刻度表。我說：「哇，你怎麼知道這些按鈕跟刻度表作什麼用的？」飛行教官安德魯坐到前座，啟動飛機引擎。他說：「你想試著滑行嗎？」滑行就是用腳控制方向舵踏板控制地面上的飛機。我說：「不行，我不能用我的腳。」他說：「喔。」我說：「但我可以用我的手。」他說：「好。」 於是他開到跑道上，然後開始加速，當我們從跑道上起飛，輪子離開地面，開始飛行，我有一股不可置信的自由感。當我們到了訓練區，安德魯對我說：「你看到那邊的山嗎？」我說：「有啊。」他說：「嗯...你來控制，朝那座山飛去。」我抬頭一看，發現他指的那座山，就是藍山，也就是這個旅程的起點。我操控著飛機，我真的在天空飛翔。我已經遠離那脊髓病房，我當下就知道，我將成為一名飛行員。我不知道，究竟要怎麼通過體檢，但先別擔心那個，因為此刻我有個夢想。於是我回家，拿出一本訓練日記，我有一個計畫。我竭盡所能練習走路，我從需要兩個人扶我站立，進步到一個人扶我，然後到可以扶著家具走動，只要家具不要距離太遠就行。然後，我進步到可以在屋內扶著牆壁，四處走動。就像這樣，媽媽說她老是跟在我後面，清除我的指紋。（笑聲）但至少她總是知道我在哪裡。 於是，當醫生繼續幫我動刀，重建我身體的同時，我繼續我的理論研究，最後，令人驚訝地，我通過飛行員的體檢，那是我飛行的通行證。我所有的時間都花在飛行學校，那個遠離舒適區的地方，那裡都是想成為澳航飛行員的年輕小伙子，還有你知道的，我這有點年紀的人。一開始裹著石膏一蹬一跳，後來是金屬支架。穿著鬆垮的工作褲、一袋子藥與導管，走路一跛一跛地，他們一開始看著我，心想：「喔，她開什麼玩笑？她不可能做得到的。」我有時也會這麼想。不過沒關係。因為此刻我心中有一股熊熊燃燒的火，遠遠勝過我身上的傷。 小小的目標，讓我一路堅持，最後我拿到私人飛行員執照，接著我學會導航，我帶著朋友飛遍澳洲。接著，我學會飛雙引擎飛機，拿到雙引擎執照，然後，我學會在壞天氣與好天氣下飛行，並取得儀器飛行資格。之後，我拿到商業飛行員執照。接著是飛行教官執照。後來，我又回到同一個學校，我第一次飛行的學校，教導其他人飛行，當時我離開脊髓病房，還不到十八個月，（掌聲） 然後我想：「為何不繼續學？為什麼不學倒立飛行？」所以我去學了，我學了倒立飛行，然後成了特技飛行教官。我的爸媽呢？從來沒跟我飛過。但是，我很確定地知道，雖然我的身體有所限制，但我的精神卻無人能擋， 哲學家老子曾說：「當你放下原來的你，便能成為可能的你。」我現在知道，要不是我放下那個我自以為的「我」，我不會創造出這個全新的人生。要不是我放下那個我認為應該擁有的人生，我不會擁抱這個等著我的人生。現在，我知道我真正的力量，從來就不是來自我的身體，雖然我身體的能力，產生了戲劇性的變化，「我」還是原來的我。我內心的指示燈依然亮著，就像每個人一樣。 我知道，我的身體不代表「我」，我也知道，你的身體也不代表「你」。如此一來，無論你外表如何、來自何方，或靠什麼維生，便不再重要。重要的是，我們藉由活著，以極致創意呈現我們的真面目，我們繼續給人性光輝的火焰煽風，因為我們都是藉著數百萬的吸管相互連結著的。此刻，我們該把吸管一一接起，緊緊抓住。若我們想要朝著集體的幸福前進，我們此刻便擺脫對外表的重視，而去擁抱內心的善與美。 因此，如果你願意的話，請舉起你的吸管。 謝謝。（掌聲）謝謝。
