Talk	en	zh-tw
janna_levin_the_sound_the_universe_makes	"I want to ask you all to consider for a second the very simple fact that, by far, most of what we know about the universe comes to us from light. We can stand on the Earth and look up at the night sky and see stars with our bare eyes. The Sun burns our peripheral vision. We see light reflected off the Moon. And in the time since Galileo pointed that rudimentary telescope at the celestial bodies, the known universe has come to us through light, across vast eras in cosmic history. And with all of our modern telescopes, we've been able to collect this stunning silent movie of the universe — these series of snapshots that go all the way back to the Big Bang. And yet, the universe is not a silent movie because the universe isn't silent. I'd like to convince you that the universe has a soundtrack and that soundtrack is played on space itself, because space can wobble like a drum. It can ring out a kind of recording throughout the universe of some of the most dramatic events as they unfold. Now we'd like to be able to add to a kind of glorious visual composition that we have of the universe — a sonic composition. And while we've never heard the sounds from space, we really should, in the next few years, start to turn up the volume on what's going on out there. So in this ambition to capture songs from the universe, we turn our focus to black holes and the promise they have, because black holes can bang on space-time like mallets on a drum and have a very characteristic song, which I'd like to play for you — some of our predictions for what that song will be like. Now black holes are dark against a dark sky. We can't see them directly. They're not brought to us with light, at least not directly. We can see them indirectly, because black holes wreak havoc on their environment. They destroy stars around them. They churn up debris in their surroundings. But they won't come to us directly through light. We might one day see a shadow a black hole can cast on a very bright background, but we haven't yet. And yet black holes may be heard even if they're not seen, and that's because they bang on space-time like a drum. Now we owe the idea that space can ring like a drum to Albert Einstein — to whom we owe so much. Einstein realized that if space were empty, if the universe were empty, it would be like this picture, except for maybe without the helpful grid drawn on it. But if we were freely falling through the space, even without this helpful grid, we might be able to paint it ourselves, because we would notice that we traveled along straight lines, undeflected straight paths through the universe. Einstein also realized — and this is the real meat of the matter — that if you put energy or mass in the universe, it would curve space, and a freely falling object would pass by, let's say, the Sun and it would be deflected along the natural curves in the space. It was Einstein's great general theory of relativity. Now even light will be bent by those paths. And you can be bent so much that you're caught in orbit around the Sun, as the Earth is, or the Moon around the Earth. These are the natural curves in space. What Einstein did not realize was that, if you took our Sun and you crushed it down to six kilometers — so you took a million times the mass of the Earth and you crushed it to six kilometers across, you would make a black hole, an object so dense that if light veered too close, it would never escape — a dark shadow against the universe. It wasn't Einstein who realized this, it was Karl Schwarzschild who was a German Jew in World War I — joined the German army already an accomplished scientist, working on the Russian front. I like to imagine Schwarzschild in the war in the trenches calculating ballistic trajectories for cannon fire, and then, in between, calculating Einstein's equations — as you do in the trenches. And he was reading Einstein's recently published general theory of relativity, and he was thrilled by this theory. And he quickly surmised an exact mathematical solution that described something very extraordinary: curves so strong that space would rain down into them, space itself would curve like a waterfall flowing down the throat of a hole. And even light could not escape this current. Light would be dragged down the hole as everything else would be, and all that would be left would be a shadow. Now he wrote to Einstein, and he said, ""As you will see, the war has been kind to me enough. Despite the heavy gunfire, I've been able to get away from it all and walk through the land of your ideas."" And Einstein was very impressed with his exact solution, and I should hope also the dedication of the scientist. This is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions. And he took Schwarzschild's idea to the Prussian Academy of Sciences the next week. But Einstein always thought black holes were a mathematical oddity. He did not believe they existed in nature. He thought nature would protect us from their formation. It was decades before the term ""black hole"" was coined and people realized that black holes are real astrophysical objects — in fact they're the death state of very massive stars that collapse catastrophically at the end of their lifetime. Now our Sun will not collapse to a black hole. It's actually not massive enough. But if we did a little thought experiment — as Einstein was very fond of doing — we could imagine putting the Sun crushed down to six kilometers, and putting a tiny little Earth around it in orbit, maybe 30 kilometers outside of the black-hole sun. And it would be self-illuminated, because now the Sun's gone, we have no other source of light — so let's make our little Earth self-illuminated. And you would realize you could put the Earth in a happy orbit even 30 km outside of this crushed black hole. This crushed black hole actually would fit inside Manhattan, more or less. It might spill off into the Hudson a little bit before it destroyed the Earth. But basically that's what we're talking about. We're talking about an object that you could crush down to half the square area of Manhattan. So we move this Earth very close — 30 kilometers outside — and we notice it's perfectly fine orbiting around the black hole. There's a sort of myth that black holes devour everything in the universe, but you actually have to get very close to fall in. But what's very impressive is that, from our vantage point, we can always see the Earth. It cannot hide behind the black hole. The light from the Earth, some of it falls in, but some of it gets lensed around and brought back to us. So you can't hide anything behind a black hole. If this were Battlestar Galactica and you're fighting the Cylons, don't hide behind the black hole. They can see you. Now, our Sun will not collapse to a black hole — it's not massive enough — but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy. And if one were to eclipse the Milky Way, this is what it would look like. We would see a shadow of that black hole against the hundred billion stars in the Milky Way Galaxy and its luminous dust lanes. And if we were to fall towards this black hole, we would see all of that light lensed around it, and we could even start to cross into that shadow and really not notice that anything dramatic had happened. It would be bad if we tried to fire our rockets and get out of there because we couldn't, anymore than light can escape. But even though the black hole is dark from the outside, it's not dark on the inside, because all of the light from the galaxy can fall in behind us. And even though, due to a relativistic effect known as time dilation, our clocks would seem to slow down relative to galactic time, it would look as though the evolution of the galaxy had been sped up and shot at us, right before we were crushed to death by the black hole. It would be like a near-death experience where you see the light at the end of the tunnel, but it's a total death experience. (Laughter) And there's no way of telling anybody about the light at the end of the tunnel. Now we've never seen a shadow like this of a black hole, but black holes can be heard, even if they're not seen. Imagine now taking an astrophysically realistic situation — imagine two black holes that have lived a long life together. Maybe they started as stars and collapsed to two black holes — each one 10 times the mass of the Sun. So now we're going to crush them down to 60 kilometers across. They can be spinning hundreds of times a second. At the end of their lives, they're going around each other very near the speed of light. So they're crossing thousands of kilometers in a fraction of a second, and as they do so, they not only curve space, but they leave behind in their wake a ringing of space, an actual wave on space-time. Space squeezes and stretches as it emanates out from these black holes banging on the universe. And they travel out into the cosmos at the speed of light. This computer simulation is due to a relativity group at NASA Goddard. It took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem. This was one of the groups. It shows two black holes in orbit around each other, again, with these helpfully painted curves. And if you can see — it's kind of faint — but if you can see the red waves emanating out, those are the gravitational waves. They're literally the sounds of space ringing, and they will travel out from these black holes at the speed of light as they ring down and coalesce to one spinning, quiet black hole at the end of the day. If you were standing near enough, your ear would resonate with the squeezing and stretching of space. You would literally hear the sound. Now of course, your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully, so you might have trouble understanding what's going on. But I'd like to play for you the sound that we predict. This is from my group — a slightly less glamorous computer modeling. Imagine a lighter black hole falling into a very heavy black hole. The sound you're hearing is the light black hole banging on space each time it gets close. If it gets far away, it's a little too quiet. But it comes in like a mallet, and it literally cracks space, wobbling it like a drum. And we can predict what the sound will be. We know that, as it falls in, it gets faster and it gets louder. And eventually, we're going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy. (Thumping) Then it's gone. Now I've never heard it that loud — it's actually more dramatic. At home it sounds kind of anticlimactic. It's sort of like ding, ding, ding. This is another sound from my group. No, I'm not showing you any images, because black holes don't leave behind helpful trails of ink, and space is not painted, showing you the curves. But if you were to float by in space on a space holiday and you heard this, you want to get moving. (Laughter) Want to get away from the sound. Both black holes are moving. Both black holes are getting closer together. In this case, they're both wobbling quite a lot. And then they're going to merge. (Thumping) Now it's gone. Now that chirp is very characteristic of black holes merging — that it chirps up at the end. Now that's our prediction for what we'll see. Luckily we're at this safe distance in Long Beach, California. And surely, somewhere in the universe two black holes have merged. And surely, the space around us is ringing after traveling maybe a million light years, or a million years, at the speed of light to get to us. But the sound is too quiet for any of us to ever hear. There are very industrious experiments being built on Earth — one called LIGO — which will detect deviations in the squeezing and stretching of space at less than the fraction of a nucleus of an atom over four kilometers. It's a remarkably ambitious experiment, and it's going to be at advanced sensitivity within the next few years — to pick this up. There's also a mission proposed for space, which hopefully will launch in the next ten years, called LISA. And LISA will be able to see super-massive black holes — black holes millions or billions of times the mass of the Sun. In this Hubble image, we see two galaxies. They look like they're frozen in some embrace. And each one probably harbors a super-massive black hole at its core. But they're not frozen; they're actually merging. These two black holes are colliding, and they will merge over a billion-year time scale. It's beyond our human perception to pick up a song of that duration. But LISA could see the final stages of two super-massive black holes earlier in the universe's history, the last 15 minutes before they fall together. And it's not just black holes, but it's also any big disturbance in the universe — and the biggest of them all is the Big Bang. When that expression was coined, it was derisive — like, ""Oh, who would believe in a Big Bang?"" But now it actually might be more technically accurate because it might bang. It might make a sound. This animation from my friends at Proton Studios shows looking at the Big Bang from the outside. We don't ever want to do that actually. We want to be inside the universe because there's no such thing as standing outside the universe. So imagine you're inside the Big Bang. It's everywhere, it's all around you, and the space is wobbling chaotically. Fourteen billion years pass and this song is still ringing all around us. Galaxies form, and generations of stars form in those galaxies, and around one star, at least one star, is a habitable planet. And here we are frantically building these experiments, doing these calculations, writing these computer codes. Imagine a billion years ago, two black holes collided. That song has been ringing through space for all that time. We weren't even here. It gets closer and closer — 40,000 years ago, we're still doing cave paintings. It's like hurry, build your instruments. It's getting closer and closer, and in 20 ... whatever year it will be when our detectors are finally at advanced sensitivity — we'll build them, we'll turn on the machines and, bang, we'll catch it — the first song from space. If it was the Big Bang we were going to pick up, it would sound like this. (Static) It's a terrible sound. It's literally the definition of noise. It's white noise; it's such a chaotic ringing. But it's around us everywhere, presumably, if it hasn't been wiped out by some other process in the universe. And if we pick it up, it will be music to our ears because it will be the quiet echo of that moment of our creation, of our observable universe. So within the next few years, we'll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit, render the universe in audio. But if we detect those earliest moments, it'll bring us that much closer to an understanding of the Big Bang, which brings us that much closer to asking some of the hardest, most elusive, questions. If we run the movie of our universe backwards, we know that there was a Big Bang in our past, and we might even hear the cacophonous sound of it, but was our Big Bang the only Big Bang? I mean we have to ask, has it happened before? Will it happen again? I mean, in the spirit of rising to TED's challenge to reignite wonder, we can ask questions, at least for this last minute, that honestly might evade us forever. But we have to ask: Is it possible that our universe is just a plume off of some greater history? Or, is it possible that we're just a branch off of a multiverse — each branch with its own Big Bang in its past — maybe some of them with black holes playing drums, maybe some without — maybe some with sentient life, and maybe some without — not in our past, not in our future, but somehow fundamentally connected to us? So we have to wonder, if there is a multiverse, in some other patch of that multiverse, are there creatures? Here's my multiverse creatures. Are there other creatures in the multiverse, wondering about us and wondering about their own origins? And if they are, I can imagine them as we are, calculating, writing computer code, building instruments, trying to detect that faintest sound of their origins and wondering who else is out there. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)"	請各位思考一下一個非常簡單的事實目前為止我們所知的宇宙都透過「光」而來站在地球上仰望夜空我們憑肉眼就能看得見星星太陽照亮我們的視野邊界因為光的反射而看見月亮自從伽利略以最原始的望遠鏡舉目望天開始了觀測一向以來，已知宇宙都是透過光來向我們傳達訊息即便穿越了宇宙浩瀚的歷史以現代的望遠鏡我們能接收這齣令人驚異、讚歎的宇宙無聲電影用許多連續圖形一路回溯至大霹靂時期 但是，宇宙上演的並不是一齣默劇因為宇宙其實並非一片死寂我想說服你們的就是這件事宇宙是個有聲電影宇宙自己發出聲音成為它的聲部這是因為太空像鼓一樣會震動它像唱片一樣可以發出聲音傳遍整個宇宙尤其當某些極富戲劇效果的事件展開的時候現在我們想嘗試在炫麗奪目的視覺效果以外為我們的宇宙再加上它聲音的部份雖然我們從沒聽過來自太空的聲音幾年之內，我們應該可以開始把外面世界發出的聲音音量再調更大 在這雄心壯志企圖接收宇宙譜出的歌曲驅動下帶領我們將目光轉向黑洞和它們的能量特性因為黑洞能在空-時中發出聲響像一根鼓棒一樣它的歌曲則極富特色在此根據我們的假設將要播放一段黑洞可能會發出的聲音黑洞是襯在黑底之上不可能直接看得見它們不是直接以光的形式向我們呈現,至少沒有以直接的方式我們能以間接的方式看見它們也就是黑洞對它週遭環境施加的破壞諸如毀滅周圍恆星將方圓以內碎片劇烈攪拌...等總之它們不會以可見光讓我們看見有一天我們或許看得見它的影子當黑洞遇上一個非常明亮的背景時這就有可能但現在還在努力中但黑洞是可以聽得見的就算它們真的是我們所不能看見的能聽見黑洞是因它像鼓一樣,敲槌著空時 我們會有這麼一個太空中響著鼓聲的念頭最該感謝的人是愛因斯坦，非常感謝愛因斯坦明瞭如果太空是空的宇宙是空的就像這張照片或者說實際上應沒有這些輔助線會像得更徹底些不過如果我們自由的墜入太空中就算沒有這些輔助線我們自己也能畫的出這幅圖因為我們會注意到自己是以直線運動前進以直線不偏轉的路徑通過宇宙愛因斯坦還想到另一件事而那個部份才是更加精采也就是，若將能量或質量放在宇宙中它會彎曲空間而自由落下的物體有可能會經過，譬如說，太陽於是它的路徑會受偏轉沿著空間自然曲線偏轉這是愛因斯坦的普通相對論因為連光都會受這些路徑影響而彎曲彎曲到一個程度你會被太陽抓住而繞著它依軌道運轉就像地球繞太陽轉，月亮繞地球轉這就是空間的自然曲線 愛因斯坦沒想通的事情是如果你拿著太陽把它擠壓直到只剩6公里直徑大小這是一團質量是地球100萬倍的東西然後把它的體積壓縮到6公里寬這樣就是個黑洞一個非常嚴密的物質如果靠得太近，連光不可能逃走成為一個相對於宇宙的黑色陰影愛因斯坦沒領悟到這件事情這是卡爾史瓦西解出來的他是德國猶太人，在第一次世界大戰時在入伍時已是一位傑出科學家在德俄邊境前線工作我總愛想像史瓦西是躲在戰爭時期的壕溝裡頭邊計算高射炮的發射彈道邊偶爾計算一下愛因斯坦的公式壕溝裡能做的事情不多他正拜讀愛因斯坦最新的普通相對論令他大感驚訝的理論他很快推算出一道精確的數學解答極不尋常的描述了一個現象一道強大的曲線空間會順勢下流空間本身會像瀑布一般的彎曲向下流入一個喉嚨敞開的洞即便是光也無法逃離這股流勢光會被拉入這個洞中和其他任何東西一樣所有東西最後都會只剩下一個影子 史瓦西寫信告訴愛因斯坦他說,「且看,戰爭對我是多麼慷慨有餘啊,即便在戰火交織下我也能有遠離這一切的一個某處可去一步步前進在由你的理論所佔領的土地上。」愛因斯坦對史瓦西精確的解答實在印象深刻我應該期望自己有科學家這樣全心全力在這樣艱困的處境下仍辛勤工作帶著著史瓦西的理論想法一週後，愛因斯坦前往波斯科學院愛因斯坦一向以為黑洞只不過是個純數學的怪物他並不相信自然界真有這個東西存在他認為自然界應該會在創生的過程中保護我們幾十年過去黑洞一詞被憑空創造問世人們理解到黑洞是天文物理中真實的天體事實上它們是一種最終的境界大質量恆星們的最終結局災難性的崩塌瓦解當它的生命走到盡頭時 我們的太陽不會塌縮成黑洞事實上它的質量還不夠形成為黑洞但如果我們運用思考來做個實驗就像愛因斯坦很喜歡做的事情一樣我們不妨想像把太陽壓縮成６公里大小把一個超微小地球放在它旁邊依軌道運行距離約30公里在這顆太陽黑洞外面30公里處然後地球自己會發光因為沒有太陽了,我們也將失去光源—只好先假設地球變成是發光體的情形你會發現這個距離之下地球軌道在距離黑洞30公里以外一個被壓縮的黑洞事實上就和紐約市中心的曼哈頓區差不多大而已有時它或許會碰到一點哈得遜區在它快要吞滅地球之前基本上我們說的就是體積這麼小的一個東西我們說的這個東西是你可以把它壓縮到只有曼哈頓方圓一半大的區域 我們把這個地球移動到非常靠近 —30公里外的這個距離這是繞行這顆黑洞完美的軌道這有點神秘黑洞無一例外的吞滅宇宙裡的一切物體但事實上你必須非常靠近它才能掉的下去但令人驚訝的是,從我們的觀望點我們總是看得到地球它沒辦法躲藏在黑洞的後方這時有些從地球發出的光會掉入黑洞中有些會因受到透鏡得作用,傳回來讓我們看見你沒辦法把一樣東西藏在黑洞後面如果是在科幻影集「太空堡壘」中你和塞隆人正在作戰千萬別選在一個黑洞的後面跟他玩躲迷藏敵人一定會看見你 太陽不會塌縮成黑洞它質量不夠我們的銀河系裡有上萬顆黑洞如果銀河系裡發生了「食」的現象看起來會像這樣我們會看到一個黑洞的影子在數千億顆明亮恆星的映襯之下在銀河系還有許多明亮的塵埃帶中若我們朝黑洞裡頭掉進去我們會看見受到透鏡作用的光環繞在外層我們甚至開始穿透那個陰影卻並不會真的發現什麼太有戲劇效果的事情試圖從黑洞裡發射一顆火箭逃出來並不是個太好的主意因為根本不可行連光都逃不掉 不過雖然黑洞從外面看是漆黑一片內層卻不是黑的因為所有銀河系而來的光都在我們身後掉進來儘管如此,由於時間膨脹的相對關係我們的時鐘會慢下來相對於星系時間看起來會好像是銀河系的演化加速度進行並且正對著我們而來然後我們將被黑洞壓碎而死掉很像是個瀕死經驗看得見光在隧道末端...但這經驗其實會讓你非死不可(笑聲)你也沒辦法跟任何人說這個經歷說你看得見光在隧道末端... 我們從來沒看見過像這樣的一個黑洞的影子但是我們聽得見黑洞雖然就算看不到想像現在天文物理中有這樣一個現實情境有兩個黑洞在一起,已經過了很久的時間也許從它們是恆星的身分開始然後崩塌為兩個黑洞每一個都有太陽質量的十倍大所以現在我們把它們壓縮為60公里大小它們可能在自轉以每秒數百次的速度自轉當它們的恆星生命走到盡頭時它們以幾乎是光速互繞對方轉以每秒數千里的速度快速移動如此,不只扭曲了空間它們也在所經之處的後方留下一個發出響聲的空間在空時中有一道實際的波太空壓縮也延伸這些自黑洞中發出來的波敲擊著宇宙它們朝向宇宙以光速奔去 這個電腦模擬結果是由美國航太總署戈達德太空中心的相對論組製作地球上很多人近30年時間都用來解答出這一道題目戈達德小組是其中之一它顯示的情況是兩個黑洞彼此互繞如前述,藉由自然界事先就畫好的曲線它們看起來有點暗淡但你看得見紅色的波向外散射這就是重力波使太空發出聲響它們從黑洞裡以光速跑出來震盪並聯合合成為一個波,安靜的黑洞在喧囂後重歸寧靜倘若你站的距離夠近耳中會回響著空間擠壓和伸展的聲音你會真的聽得見聲音當然你的頭也會被壓縮拉長,這是無可避免的所以其實你也根本搞不清楚現在是什麼情況不過我想播一段這個給你聽這是我們預測中的聲音 從我的團隊而來的數據我們的電腦計算模型看起來比較沒那麼炫想像一個質量較輕的小黑洞掉進了質量很大的黑洞你聽見的聲音是小黑洞敲擊著太空每一次的聲音都代表更加靠近越遠會越安靜但它像是個木槌而且實際上它真的是在敲打著空間像鼓一樣的震動我們可以預估這個聲音像是什麼我們知道,因為它掉進來它愈來愈快也愈來愈大聲最後我們聽見小黑洞掉進大黑洞裡(砰砰重擊聲)然後它消失我從來沒聽過這麼大聲的版本 — 這樣更富戲劇效果在家裡頭聽它比較像是漸漸沒力聽起來只有叮,叮,叮而已 這裡還有另一個我的團隊所模擬的聲音我就不播放影像的部份了因為黑洞並不留下有跡可循的脈絡太空中也沒有明顯的告訴你哪裡有一道曲線但如果有一天你得到太空之旅的門票,要在太空中漂浮聽到這個聲音的時候你就知道該拔腿逃走了(笑聲)快點遠離這種聲音因為兩個黑洞都在移動兩個都在朝向對方靠近移動中這種情況下,它們兩個都震的很厲害然後他們將要合併(砰砰重擊聲)它沒了最後那個「啾」的一聲是黑洞合併非常具代表性的特色在最後面的那個「啾」聲這是我們基於我們將會看見景象所做成的假設預估 很幸運我們是在加州長島,很安全,距離黑洞夠遠但我相信在宇宙中必然有某處兩個黑洞是已經合併因此,實實在在的講,週遭的太空正在發出聲響在旅遊了一百萬光年或一百萬年以後正以光速朝向我們而來但它的聲音太安靜我們沒人聽得到現在地球上有很多相關的實驗正在進行一個叫做LIGO —它可監測偏向因空間壓縮和拉長引起的偏向在四公里範圍內還不到一顆核子或原子大小的偏向這是一個極具野心的實驗需要非常高的靈敏度在幾年內可以完成一些實驗結果還有一個和空間相關的實驗可望在未來10年內啟動稱為LISA計畫LISA能看見超大質量黑洞這種黑洞是太陽質量的百萬倍甚至數十億倍 在這張哈伯太空望遠鏡的圖像中,我們看見兩個星系看起來好像凝結不動兩個可能都各自擁有一個超大質量黑洞在其核心但其實它們並非凝結不動的它們正在合併中兩個黑洞正在走向相撞的不歸路它們將在一段長達數十億年的時程當中完成合併這遠超乎人類所能想像誰能掌握住一個長度如此的歌曲呢但是LISA可以看到最終章兩個超大量黑洞命運的最終章從宇宙較早的歷史中去找資料找到它們最後鄉重前的最後15分鐘不僅只是黑洞有聲音而已宇宙中任何大擾動也都會有聲音其中最大的就是大霹靂當這個形容詞首度公開時,引來一陣潮笑人們說,「大霹靂,怎麼可能真有霹哩啪啦這種事?」不過現在看來「霹靂」一詞技術上還滿正確的因為它真的會霹靂它可能真的有聲響 這個動畫是我在Proton Studios的友人所製作顯示從大霹靂外面看大霹靂那並不是我們想做的部份;我們想在宇宙以內而非以外因為根本沒有所謂的站在宇宙以外的這種事現在假設你身處在大霹靂裡面大霹靂四圍環繞你空間混亂的抖動經過140億年而這首歌仍在我們四圍餘音繞樑星系形成恆星在星系中形成,並且世代交替而在一顆恆星旁至少有一顆這樣的恆星旁邊有一顆可適合人類居住的行星所以我們在地球上進行這些瘋狂的實驗進行這些運算,編寫這些電腦程式 想像10億年前的事想像兩顆黑洞相撞這首歌穿越時空而來長長的時空它來自我們不存在之處越靠越近4萬年前我們還在山洞裡畫壁畫某處傳來一種催促聲說,快點建造你的儀器!時空之歌愈來愈近,走進了21世紀無論是哪一年當我們的探測器終於夠精確靈敏這些儀器會被建造起來,我們總會讓它開工運作然後,我們會收聽到這首來自太初的大霹靂之歌如果我們真要收聽大霹靂之歌這就會是它聽起來像什麼樣子(靜電聲) 這聲音挺恐怖這根本是噪音這是白色噪音,聽起來失序混亂的聲音但它就在我們四周,假設如果到目前為止它都還沒被消音假設宇宙未曾發生任何變化過程而使它消失然後我們接收到這首歌,耳中聽起來像歌因為它會像是安靜的迴音來自創世的那一分那一秒在我們能觀測的這個宇宙中 接下來的幾年可能的話,我們可把音量調大把宇宙轉譯為聲音但如果接受到起初的聲音它將會帶我們更了解大霹靂使我們更能問一些「大哉問」:如果宇宙電影可以倒著播我們知道過去曾有一個大霹靂我們甚至聽得見這個不和諧的聲音究竟這個大霹靂是唯一的大霹靂嗎?我們必須要問,還是它以前也曾發生過?還會再發生嗎?依循TED的精神宗旨及挑戰我們要將「好奇心重新點燃」所以要在最後不多的時間裡問我們永遠都在逃避 但又不得不問的問題有無可能我們的宇宙,在時間上只不過是一棵歷史大樹上小小的枝枒?又或者,我們該不會是多元宇宙的一小部份而已 —而每個小部份都來自一個大霹靂的過去 —也許其中有些有黑洞在敲著鼓聲有些沒有 —有些是具有敏銳感覺,有些沒有不在過去,不在未來但奇妙的卻和我們在基本上相扣相連?所以我們必須設想,如果有多元宇宙在那個宇宙的某一方塊會有生物嗎?來自平行宇宙的生物就在這邊...在多元宇宙裡會有其他生物也正在揣測關於我們的一切或許也正在揣測他們自己的起源?若果真如此想像它們是和我們一樣也計算,也用電腦寫計算程式也在建造尖端儀器試圖偵測到微弱不明的聲音來自不同起源的聲音也在猜想著,那邊有人嗎 謝謝各位.謝謝. 掌聲
