Talk	en	zh-tw
jason_clay_how_big_brands_can_save_biodiversity	"I grew up on a small farm in Missouri. We lived on less than a dollar a day for about 15 years. I got a scholarship, went to university, studied international agriculture, studied anthropology, and decided I was going to give back. I was going to work with small farmers. I was going to help alleviate poverty. I was going to work on international development, and then I took a turn and ended up here. Now, if you get a Ph.D., and you decide not to teach, you don't always end up in a place like this. It's a choice. You might end up driving a taxicab. You could be in New York. What I found was, I started working with refugees and famine victims — small farmers, all, or nearly all — who had been dispossessed and displaced. Now, what I'd been trained to do was methodological research on such people. So I did it: I found out how many women had been raped en route to these camps. I found out how many people had been put in jail, how many family members had been killed. I assessed how long they were going to stay and how much it would take to feed them. And I got really good at predicting how many body bags you would need for the people who were going to die in these camps. Now this is God's work, but it's not my work. It's not the work I set out to do. So I was at a Grateful Dead benefit concert on the rainforests in 1988. I met a guy — the guy on the left. His name was Ben. He said, ""What can I do to save the rainforests?"" I said, ""Well, Ben, what do you do?"" ""I make ice cream."" So I said, ""Well, you've got to make a rainforest ice cream. And you've got to use nuts from the rainforests to show that forests are worth more as forests than they are as pasture."" He said, ""Okay."" Within a year, Rainforest Crunch was on the shelves. It was a great success. We did our first million-dollars-worth of trade by buying on 30 days and selling on 21. That gets your adrenaline going. Then we had a four and a half million-dollar line of credit because we were credit-worthy at that point. We had 15 to 20, maybe 22 percent of the global Brazil-nut market. We paid two to three times more than anybody else. Everybody else raised their prices to the gatherers of Brazil nuts because we would buy it otherwise. A great success. 50 companies signed up, 200 products came out, generated 100 million in sales. It failed. Why did it fail? Because the people who were gathering Brazil nuts weren't the same people who were cutting the forests. And the people who made money from Brazil nuts were not the people who made money from cutting the forests. We were attacking the wrong driver. We needed to be working on beef. We needed to be working on lumber. We needed to be working on soy — things that we were not focused on. So let's go back to Sudan. I often talk to refugees: ""Why was it that the West didn't realize that famines are caused by policies and politics, not by weather?"" And this farmer said to me, one day, something that was very profound. He said, ""You can't wake a person who's pretending to sleep."" (Laughter) Okay. Fast forward. We live on a planet. There's just one of them. We've got to wake up to the fact that we don't have any more and that this is a finite planet. We know the limits of the resources we have. We may be able to use them differently. We may have some innovative, new ideas. But in general, this is what we've got. There's no more of it. There's a basic equation that we can't get away from. Population times consumption has got to have some kind of relationship to the planet, and right now, it's a simple ""not equal."" Our work shows that we're living at about 1.3 planets. Since 1990, we crossed the line of being in a sustainable relationship to the planet. Now we're at 1.3. If we were farmers, we'd be eating our seed. For bankers, we'd be living off the principal, not the interest. This is where we stand today. A lot of people like to point to some place else as the cause of the problem. It's always population growth. Population growth's important, but it's also about how much each person consumes. So when the average American consumes 43 times as much as the average African, we've got to think that consumption is an issue. It's not just about population, and it's not just about them; it's about us. But it's not just about people; it's about lifestyles. There's very good evidence — again, we don't necessarily have a peer-reviewed methodology that's bulletproof yet — but there's very good evidence that the average cat in Europe has a larger environmental footprint in its lifetime than the average African. You think that's not an issue going forward? You think that's not a question as to how we should be using the Earth's resources? Let's go back and visit our equation. In 2000, we had six billion people on the planet. They were consuming what they were consuming — let's say one unit of consumption each. We have six billion units of consumption. By 2050, we're going to have nine billion people — all the scientists agree. They're all going to consume twice as much as they currently do — scientists, again, agree — because income is going to grow in developing countries five times what it is today — on global average, about [2.9]. So we're going to have 18 billion units of consumption. Who have you heard talking lately that's said we have to triple production of goods and services? But that's what the math says. We're not going to be able to do that. We can get productivity up. We can get efficiency up. But we've also got to get consumption down. We need to use less to make more. And then we need to use less again. And then we need to consume less. All of those things are part of that equation. But it basically raises a fundamental question: should consumers have a choice about sustainability, about sustainable products? Should you be able to buy a product that's sustainable sitting next to one that isn't, or should all the products on the shelf be sustainable? If they should all be sustainable on a finite planet, how do you make that happen? The average consumer takes 1.8 seconds in the U.S. Okay, so let's be generous. Let's say it's 3.5 seconds in Europe. How do you evaluate all the scientific data around a product, the data that's changing on a weekly, if not a daily, basis? How do you get informed? You don't. Here's a little question. From a greenhouse gas perspective, is lamb produced in the U.K. better than lamb produced in New Zealand, frozen and shipped to the U.K.? Is a bad feeder lot operation for beef better or worse than a bad grazing operation for beef? Do organic potatoes actually have fewer toxic chemicals used to produce them than conventional potatoes? In every single case, the answer is ""it depends."" It depends on who produced it and how, in every single instance. And there are many others. How is a consumer going to walk through this minefield? They're not. They may have a lot of opinions about it, but they're not going to be terribly informed. Sustainability has got to be a pre-competitive issue. It's got to be something we all care about. And we need collusion. We need groups to work together that never have. We need Cargill to work with Bunge. We need Coke to work with Pepsi. We need Oxford to work with Cambridge. We need Greenpeace to work with WWF. Everybody's got to work together — China and the U.S. We need to begin to manage this planet as if our life depended on it, because it does, it fundamentally does. But we can't do everything. Even if we get everybody working on it, we've got to be strategic. We need to focus on the where, the what and the who. So, the where: We've identified 35 places globally that we need to work. These are the places that are the richest in biodiversity and the most important from an ecosystem function point-of-view. We have to work in these places. We have to save these places if we want a chance in hell of preserving biodiversity as we know it. We looked at the threats to these places. These are the 15 commodities that fundamentally pose the biggest threats to these places because of deforestation, soil loss, water use, pesticide use, over-fishing, etc. So we've got 35 places, we've got 15 priority commodities, who do we work with to change the way those commodities are produced? Are we going to work with 6.9 billion consumers? Let's see, that's about 7,000 languages, 350 major languages — a lot of work there. I don't see anybody actually being able to do that very effectively. Are we going to work with 1.5 billion producers? Again, a daunting task. There must be a better way. 300 to 500 companies control 70 percent or more of the trade of each of the 15 commodities that we've identified as the most significant. If we work with those, if we change those companies and the way they do business, then the rest will happen automatically. So, we went through our 15 commodities. This is nine of them. We lined them up side-by-side, and we put the names of the companies that work on each of those. And if you go through the first 25 or 30 names of each of the commodities, what you begin to see is, gosh, there's Cargill here, there's Cargill there, there's Cargill everywhere. In fact, these names start coming up over and over again. So we did the analysis again a slightly different way. We said: if we take the top hundred companies, what percentage of all 15 commodities do they touch, buy or sell? And what we found is it's 25 percent. So 100 companies control 25 percent of the trade of all 15 of the most significant commodities on the planet. We can get our arms around a hundred companies. A hundred companies, we can work with. Why is 25 percent important? Because if these companies demand sustainable products, they'll pull 40 to 50 percent of production. Companies can push producers faster than consumers can. By companies asking for this, we can leverage production so much faster than by waiting for consumers to do it. After 40 years, the global organic movement has achieved 0.7 of one percent of global food. We can't wait that long. We don't have that kind of time. We need change that's going to accelerate. Even working with individual companies is not probably going to get us there. We need to begin to work with industries. So we've started roundtables where we bring together the entire value chain, from producers all the way to the retailers and brands. We bring in civil society, we bring in NGOs, we bring in researchers and scientists to have an informed discussion — sometimes a battle royale — to figure out what are the key impacts of these products, what is a global benchmark, what's an acceptable impact, and design standards around that. It's not all fun and games. In salmon aquaculture, we kicked off a roundtable almost six years ago. Eight entities came to the table. We eventually got, I think, 60 percent of global production at the table and 25 percent of demand at the table. Three of the original eight entities were suing each other. And yet, next week, we launch globally verified, vetted and certified standards for salmon aquaculture. It can happen. (Applause) So what brings the different entities to the table? It's risk and demand. For the big companies, it's reputational risk, but more importantly, they don't care what the price of commodities is. If they don't have commodities, they don't have a business. They care about availability, so the big risk for them is not having product at all. For the producers, if a buyer wants to buy something produced a certain way, that's what brings them to the table. So it's the demand that brings them to the table. The good news is we identified a hundred companies two years ago. In the last 18 months, we've signed agreements with 40 of those hundred companies to begin to work with them on their supply chain. And in the next 18 months, we will have signed up to work with another 40, and we think we'll get those signed as well. Now what we're doing is bringing the CEOs of these 80 companies together to help twist the arms of the final 20, to bring them to the table, because they don't like NGOs, they've never worked with NGOs, they're concerned about this, they're concerned about that, but we all need to be in this together. So we're pulling out all the stops. We're using whatever leverage we have to bring them to the table. One company we're working with that's begun — in baby steps, perhaps — but has begun this journey on sustainability is Cargill. They've funded research that shows that we can double global palm oil production without cutting a single tree in the next 20 years, and do it all in Borneo alone by planting on land that's already degraded. The study shows that the highest net present value for palm oil is on land that's been degraded. They're also undertaking a study to look at all of their supplies of palm oil to see if they could be certified and what they would need to change in order to become third-party certified under a credible certification program. Why is Cargill important? Because Cargill has 20 to 25 percent of global palm oil. If Cargill makes a decision, the entire palm oil industry moves, or at least 40 or 50 percent of it. That's not insignificant. More importantly, Cargill and one other company ship 50 percent of the palm oil that goes to China. We don't have to change the way a single Chinese company works if we get Cargill to only send sustainable palm oil to China. It's a pre-competitive issue. All the palm oil going there is good. Buy it. Mars is also on a similar journey. Now most people understand that Mars is a chocolate company, but Mars has made sustainability pledges to buy only certified product for all of its seafood. It turns out Mars buys more seafood than Walmart because of pet food. But they're doing some really interesting things around chocolate, and it all comes from the fact that Mars wants to be in business in the future. And what they see is that they need to improve chocolate production. On any given plantation, 20 percent of the trees produce 80 percent of the crop, so Mars is looking at the genome, they're sequencing the genome of the cocoa plant. They're doing it with IBM and the USDA, and they're putting it in the public domain because they want everybody to have access to this data, because they want everybody to help them make cocoa more productive and more sustainable. What they've realized is that if they can identify the traits on productivity and drought tolerance, they can produce 320 percent as much cocoa on 40 percent of the land. The rest of the land can be used for something else. It's more with less and less again. That's what the future has got to be, and putting it in the public domain is smart. They don't want to be an I.P. company; they want to be a chocolate company, but they want to be a chocolate company forever. Now, the price of food, many people complain about, but in fact, the price of food is going down, and that's odd because in fact, consumers are not paying for the true cost of food. If you take a look just at water, what we see is that, with four very common products, you look at how much a farmer produced to make those products, and then you look at how much water input was put into them, and then you look at what the farmer was paid. If you divide the amount of water into what the farmer was paid, the farmer didn't receive enough money to pay a decent price for water in any of those commodities. That is an externality by definition. This is the subsidy from nature. Coca-Cola, they've worked a lot on water, but right now, they're entering into 17-year contracts with growers in Turkey to sell juice into Europe, and they're doing that because they want to have a product that's closer to the European market. But they're not just buying the juice; they're also buying the carbon in the trees to offset the shipment costs associated with carbon to get the product into Europe. There's carbon that's being bought with sugar, with coffee, with beef. This is called bundling. It's bringing those externalities back into the price of the commodity. We need to take what we've learned in private, voluntary standards of what the best producers in the world are doing and use that to inform government regulation, so we can shift the entire performance curve. We can't just focus on identifying the best; we've got to move the rest. The issue isn't what to think, it's how to think. These companies have begun to think differently. They're on a journey; there's no turning back. We're all on that same journey with them. We have to really begin to change the way we think about everything. Whatever was sustainable on a planet of six billion is not going to be sustainable on a planet with nine. Thank you. (Applause)"	我成長於密蘇里州的一個小農場大概有15年的時間我們一天的花費少於一塊美金我拿到獎學金，去上大學學習國際農業學跟人類學我決定要回饋我想跟小農們一起工作想幫助消滅貧窮想致力於國際發展然而，最後我轉了個彎落腳於此不過，如果你拿到博士學位，不想教書不見得會像我這樣這是個人選擇。你也許到頭來去開計程車也許會待在紐約而我則是開始跟難民及饑民一起工作包括小農，及其他所有一無所有無家可歸的人我所接受的訓練為研究這些人的方法學我曾研究有多少女性在前往難民營的途上被強暴有多少人坐過牢多少家族成員被殺分析這些人將待多久而我們需要多少食物才能餵飽他們這讓我變得非常擅長於預測我們將需要多少屍袋來處理將死於難民營中的人 這是神的工作，而不是我的這不是我該做的事在1988年，我去了死之華合唱團在雨林辦的慈善演唱會我在那遇到相片左邊的這位仁兄他叫做Ben他問：「我該怎麼做，才能拯救雨林呢？」我說：「這個嘛，Ben，你是做什麼的？」「我做冰淇淋。」我說：「嗯，你一定得做個雨林口味的冰淇淋用雨林特產的堅果來展現雨林的價值不僅在它的生產能力而已。」他說：「好。」一年內「雨林堅果」上架了產品空前的成功我們靠著每月貸款，在最後一周銷貨賺進我們第一個一百萬的交易這真是非常刺激接著，因為此時我們有能力還款我們貸了450萬美金攻下15%到20%，也許是22%的全球巴西豆市場我們比別的買家出價高出兩三倍其他人也跟進出高價不然就會被我們買走這策略大為成功有五十間公司簽約合作，推出兩百項產品賺進一億美金的利潤然而我們到底還是失敗了為什麼呢？因為採收巴西豆的人跟砍伐雨林的人不同而靠著巴西豆賺錢的人也跟靠砍雨林賺錢的人不同所以，我們找錯對象了我們得解決牛肉的問題我們得解決伐木的問題我們得解決黃豆的問題這些我們沒有注意到的問題 回到蘇丹我常跟難民們說西方國家的人並不明白饑荒其實是政治和政策問題而不是氣候問題有天，有個農夫跟我提了個相當卓越的觀點他說：「你不能叫醒一個正在假寐的人。」 （笑） 更進一步來說我們住在這個星球上眾多星球裡獨一無二的一個我們得明白這個事實：除了這資源有限的地球外我們沒有別的星球了我們得明白，我們手上的資源有限我們也許能以不同方式使用資源就算我們有新想法，創造新資源但大致來說，資源就是這麼多沒別的了有個基礎公式是我們無可避免：人口數跟資源消耗的乘積必須與這星球的資源量有相關性而目前，這兩者並不相當研究顯示，我們消耗的資源為1.3倍個地球從1990年起我們就越過那條跟這個星球維持永續關係的線資源消耗量是地球的1.3倍如果我們是農夫，我們已在殺雞取卵若是銀行家，我們本金已開始虧損，而非靠利息過日子這是我們的現況有很多人總是把問題歸咎於其他的徵結像是人口成長人口成長是重要原因但每個人的消耗量也很重要當美國人生活的平均消耗量為非洲人的43倍時消耗的確是個問題不光是人口數也不光是別人的問題，問題是大家的這也不光是人的問題問題在於生活方式有證據顯示─關於這點，我們還沒有經同儕審查的調查方法來駁回反對意見─但是，有相當不錯的證據顯示歐洲的貓其一生留下的環境足跡比其非洲同類高你還認為這不是進行中的問題嗎？你還認為這樣的問題不足以讓我們質疑我們該如何使用地球資源嗎？ 回到之前提到的公式在2000年，地球上有60億人口他們消費的消費品恆定以每個人的消費量為一單位全世界的消費量則為60億單位在2050年所有的科學家都同意，人口數將來到90億大關而此時的消費量將為現在的兩倍科學家們也同意這點因為開發中國家的人民收入將為今日的五倍全球平均消費量達今日的3倍這讓全球總消費為180億個消費單位誰最近聽過一個演講告訴你我們的食物產量和服務量必須增加三倍？這僅只是數學而已我們沒辦法辦到我們能夠增加食物產量我們可以增加產出效率但其實我們應該減少消費量必須用更少的原料來生產我們使用的資源得比今日少我們得消費得更少這些全是那個公式的一部分 然而，伴隨而來的是一個根本問題：消費者有永續發展、永續生存的相關產品可選擇嗎？架上擺了永續、不永續的兩種產品時，你會選擇永續商品嗎？或是架上所有的商品都得是永續商品？在這個資源有限的地球上，該怎麼做才能讓所有商品都是永續商品？在美國，消費者花1.8秒決定買什麼標準放寬一點假設歐洲人花3.5秒做決定我們該怎麼評估一項產品的所有科學資訊產品數據每週、甚至是每日變動我們該怎麼獲得這樣的資料呢？這是做不到的還有個小問題從溫室氣體排放的角度來說在英國養羊會比在紐西蘭養最後再冷凍運送到英國好嗎？一個餵牛吃飼料的糟糕農場和一個餵牛吃草的糟糕農場相比誰比較好？有機馬鈴薯的生產過程會比傳統種植方式使用更少的有毒化學物嗎？這些問題的答案都是「看情況」依照作物是由誰種出、如何種出答案就不同還有很多其他的情況像是：消費者如何避開這些地雷？才不呢消費者或許有很多選擇可是他們得到的訊息卻嚴重不足 永續發展得是個異業結盟的議題這得是我們所有人共同關心的議題我們需要串謀讓從未合作過的廠商結盟像是食品業的Cargill跟Bunge飲料業的可口可樂跟百事可樂互為死對頭的劍橋跟牛津大學綠色和平組織(環保團體)跟世界自然基金會所有的人都必須合作包括中國和美國我們得開始處理地球的問題因為這是我們賴以維生的星球事情就是這樣從根本來說就是這樣但是我們也不是什麼都攬在身上即使我們說服所有人共同解決問題我們必須有策略我們必須專注於問題在哪、問題是什麼、還有由誰來解決關於「問題在哪」這點：我們已知全球有35個地點需要保護這些都是生物多樣性最豐富、且對於生態系統功能很重要的地方我們得解決這些地點的問題眾所周知，我們得保護這些地點迫切希望有機會拯救當地的生物多樣性讓我們來看看是哪些因素威脅其環境：圖上的15個商品根本上是這些地區最大的威脅因為其製程造成的去雨林化、土壤流失、灌溉、殺蟲劑的使用跟過漁等 所以，我們有35個危險區域、15個商品我們該找誰一起來改變我們製造這些商品的流程？我們需要69億名消費者的合作嗎？這牽涉到7000種語言350種主要語言實行起來很費力我不知道有誰真能有效率的達成這件事還是，我們跟15億生產者合作呢？一樣，似乎是個不可能的任務應該有更好的方法有300到500家公司控制這15項商品七成以上的交易我們認為這些公司造成的影響最為顯著如果我們跟他們合作，改變這些公司跟公司從商的模式剩下的會自動自發改變一項一項研究這15項商品其中有9個我們擺在一起看註明是哪些公司製造它們的當你看了25-30家這些商品的製造者你會發現欸！除了Cargill，還是Cargill這些東西全跟Cargill有關因為這些公司不斷出現在名單上我們用了另一個稍微不一樣的方法分析：名單上頭100個公司裡有多少比例包辦這15項商品的經手、購買跟轉賣？約為25%所以，這100個公司控制了這星球15個最重要的商品25%的交易我們可以張開雙手擁抱這100間公司跟這100間公司合作 為什麼這25%的交易重要？因為如果這些公司要求產品永續生產就會有40%到50%的產品為綠色商品生產者推動綠色消費會比消費者自發快當生產者有這樣的要求矯正生產過程的缺失會比等待消費者主動消費來的更快全球的有機食物運動花了40年也只讓有機食物佔全球食物0.7%的比重我們沒辦法等這麼久了我們沒有這樣的時間我們需要加速度的改變即使跟每一個公司合作或許無法讓我們達成目標我們還是得開始跟產業合作因此我們召開圓桌會議聚集產業鏈中所有的生產者品牌廠商跟經銷商我們讓公民團體、非政府組織、學者、科學家、跟產業界一起進行討論─過程有時跟小說《大逃殺》很像─來找出這些產品對環境的主要衝擊為何全球的標準為何可接受的環境衝擊為何並據此設計評量標準這過程一點也不有趣，更不是遊戲 針對鮭魚養殖業約在6年前我們開了圓桌會議8個團體出席我想，最後我們集合了這個產業生產端的60%跟消費端的25%這8個團體中的3個當時正互相打官司然而一週後，我們還是推動了全球皆同意、一體適用及認證的鮭魚養殖標準這是可以辦到的 （掌聲） 是什麼讓這8個立場不同的團體都出現在會議上呢？這其中有許多風險跟要求對大公司而言，可能會賠上商譽但更重要的他們不在乎商品的價錢如果沒有商品，就沒有交易所以他們在乎的是商品的取得而對他們來說，最大的風險在於沒有產品對製造商來說消費者希望購買以某些方式生產的產品是讓這些人來開會的動力是消費者的需求帶他們上會議桌好消息是根據兩年前調查選出的100間公司中在過去18個月裡，有40家跟我們簽署同意書願意跟我們合作改善供應鏈在未來的18個月我們將努力說服其他40家公司簽署而我們認為，取得他們的同意書是沒問題的我們正努力讓這80間大企業的執行長合作協助改變最後20家公司的觀念讓他們也願意參與這個會議因為這些公司不喜歡，也從未跟非政府組織合作擔心這個，擔心那個但我們需要大家的共同合作所以我們得移除所有障礙借力使力讓這些公司加入我們的行列 其中一間剛開始跟我們合作的公司是也許還在蹣跚學步但已經走上製造永續商品旅程的Cargill其贊助的研究顯示未來20年，我們一棵樹都不需要砍就能讓全球棕櫚油的產量加倍而且只要在婆羅洲已經荒蕪的地上種植棕櫚即可研究顯示，棕櫚油淨產量最高的地方為漠化區Cargill也正在研究他們供應的所有棕櫚油可不可以得到認證及為了通過有公信力的第三者評鑑機構認證他們得做出哪些改變為什麼Cargill如此重要？因為這家公司的全球棕櫚油市占率為20%到25%當Cargill下定決心整個棕櫚油生產工業、或至少40%到50%會跟著改變這就不是件小事了更重要的，Cargill跟另一家公司提供中國一半的進口棕櫚油我們不需要改變任何一家中國公司的生產方式只要我們讓Cargill將以永續生產的棕櫚油輸入中國這種進入市場前的產品改變所有在中國的棕櫚油將是好油可以放心購買 Mars也朝著同樣的方向前進大部分的人都知道Mars是一家巧克力公司但是Mars在永續議題上承諾他們只購買認證的海鮮為原料因為生產寵物飼料Mars採買的海鮮比沃爾瑪還多但Mars也針對巧克力生產進行一些有意思的計畫這是因為Mars希望他們未來在市場上仍有競爭力Mars注意到，他們需要改進巧克力生產的過程在任何一塊農地上八成的可可豆只由兩成的可可樹生產於是Mars研究可可樹基因體為可可樹的基因定序他們跟IBM和美國農業部合作公開可可樹的基因序列因為Mars希望所有人都能看到這些數據讓大家都來幫助他們使可可樹的產率提高，讓生產過程更永續他們明白如果能夠找到產量高且耐旱的表型就能在目前四成的農地上讓產率提高3.2倍這樣剩下的農地就能做為他用這更多的是關於省還要更省我們的未來必須要這樣將資訊公開很高明Mars不想當個智慧財產公司，他們想當個巧克力公司但他們更想當個永續的巧克力公司 當許多人抱怨食物的價格時然而，怪的是，食物價格其實正在降低這是因為，事實上消費者並沒有為食物真正的成本付出代價以四種常見的產品而言當你去研究這些農產品水的使用，你會知道農夫用多少原料來生產這些產品我們知道農夫生產這些商品使用的水量也知道農夫的收入將水量除以農夫的收入你會發現，農夫的收入不足以負擔生產這些農產品時所需的水這就是所謂的外部效應即產品生產時，自然界付出的成本可口可樂在水資源上下了許多工夫現在，他們跟土耳其的農夫簽下一紙17年的合約以利在歐洲銷售他們的果汁之所以這麼做，是因為他們希望在接近歐洲市場處生產產品如此一來，他們不僅只是買果汁還省了將產品運送到歐洲時燃燒樹木釋放的碳足跡及其相關成本在我們買糖、咖啡、牛肉時都會有這樣的碳足跡藉著外部成本內部化商品價格將包含環境的外部成本 我們需要應用從世界最好的製造商那裡學來的私人或公益團體制定的標準以型塑政府規範改變整個生產曲線我們不只得找出最好的產業還得改變其他的產業 重點不在於思考目的，而在於過程這些公司已經開始改變思考模式他們走在改革的路上，沒有回頭的路我們也在同一條船上我們得真正開始改變我們看待萬物的方式能讓一個60億人口的星球永續發展的方式在90億人口的星球上是不會有一樣的效果的 謝謝 （掌聲）
