Talk	en	zh-tw
jason_pontin_can_technology_solve_our_big_problems	"So, we used to solve big problems. On July 21st, 1969, Buzz Aldrin climbed out of Apollo 11's lunar module and descended onto the Sea of Tranquility. Armstrong and Aldrin were alone, but their presence on the moon's gray surface was the culmination of a convulsive, collective effort. The Apollo program was the greatest peacetime mobilization in the history of the United States. To get to the moon, NASA spent around 180 billion dollars in today's money, or four percent of the federal budget. Apollo employed around 400,000 people and demanded the collaboration of 20,000 companies, universities and government agencies. People died, including the crew of Apollo 1. But before the Apollo program ended, 24 men flew to the moon. Twelve walked on its surface, of whom Aldrin, following the death of Armstrong last year, is now the most senior. So why did they go? They didn't bring much back: 841 pounds of old rocks, and something all 24 later emphasized — a new sense of the smallness and the fragility of our common home. Why did they go? The cynical answer is they went because President Kennedy wanted to show the Soviets that his nation had the better rockets. But Kennedy's own words at Rice University in 1962 provide a better clue. (Video) John F. Kennedy: But why, some say, the moon? Why choose this as our goal? And they may well ask, why climb the highest mountain? Why, 35 years ago, fly the Atlantic? Why does Rice play Texas? We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon. (Applause) We choose to go to the moon in this decade, and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard. Jason Pontin: To contemporaries, Apollo wasn't only a victory of West over East in the Cold War. At the time, the strongest emotion was of wonder at the transcendent powers of technology. They went because it was a big thing to do. Landing on the moon occurred in the context of a long series of technological triumphs. The first half of the 20th century produced the assembly line and the airplane, penicillin and a vaccine for tuberculosis. In the middle years of the century, polio was eradicated and smallpox eliminated. Technology itself seemed to possess what Alvin Toffler in 1970 called ""accelerative thrust."" For most of human history, we could go no faster than a horse or a boat with a sail, but in 1969, the crew of Apollo 10 flew at 25,000 miles an hour. Since 1970, no human beings have been back to the moon. No one has traveled faster than the crew of Apollo 10, and blithe optimism about technology's powers has evaporated as big problems we had imagined technology would solve, such as going to Mars, creating clean energy, curing cancer, or feeding the world have come to seem intractably hard. I remember watching the liftoff of Apollo 17. I was five years old, and my mother told me not to stare at the fiery exhaust of a Saturn V rocket. I vaguely knew this was to be the last of the moon missions, but I was absolutely certain there would be Mars colonies in my lifetime. So ""Something happened to our capacity to solve big problems with technology"" has become a commonplace. You hear it all the time. We've heard it over the last two days here at TED. It feels as if technologists have diverted us and enriched themselves with trivial toys, with things like iPhones and apps and social media, or algorithms that speed automated trading. There's nothing wrong with most of these things. They've expanded and enriched our lives. But they don't solve humanity's big problems. What happened? So there is a parochial explanation in Silicon Valley, which admits that it has been funding less ambitious companies than it did in the years when it financed Intel, Microsoft, Apple and Genentech. Silicon Valley says the markets are to blame, in particular the incentives that venture capitalists offer to entrepreneurs. Silicon Valley says that venture investing shifted away from funding transformational ideas and towards funding incremental problems or even fake problems. But I don't think that explanation is good enough. It mostly explains what's wrong with Silicon Valley. Even when venture capitalists were at their most risk-happy, they preferred small investments, tiny investments that offered an exit within 10 years. V.C.s have always struggled to invest profitably in technologies such as energy whose capital requirements are huge and whose development is long and lengthy, and V.C.s have never, never funded the development of technologies meant to solve big problems that possess no immediate commercial value. No, the reasons we can't solve big problems are more complicated and more profound. Sometimes we choose not to solve big problems. We could go to Mars if we want. NASA even has the outline of a plan. But going to Mars would follow a political decision with popular appeal, and that will never happen. We won't go to Mars, because everyone thinks there are more important things to do here on Earth. Sometimes, we can't solve big problems because our political systems fail. Today, less than two percent of the world's energy consumption derives from advanced, renewable sources such as solar, wind and biofuels, less than two percent, and the reason is purely economic. Coal and natural gas are cheaper than solar and wind, and petroleum is cheaper than biofuels. We want alternative energy sources that can compete on price. None exist. Now, technologists, business leaders and economists all basically agree on what national policies and international treaties would spur the development of alternative energy: mostly, a significant increase in energy research and development, and some kind of price on carbon. But there's no hope in the present political climate that we will see U.S. energy policy or international treaties that reflect that consensus. Sometimes, big problems that had seemed technological turn out not to be so. Famines were long understood to be caused by failures in food supply. But 30 years of research have taught us that famines are political crises that catastrophically affect food distribution. Technology can improve things like crop yields or systems for storing and transporting food, but there will be famines so long as there are bad governments. Finally, big problems sometimes elude solution because we don't really understand the problem. President Nixon declared war on cancer in 1971, but we soon discovered there are many kinds of cancer, most of them fiendishly resistant to therapy, and it is only in the last 10 years that effective, viable therapies have come to seem real. Hard problems are hard. It's not true that we can't solve big problems through technology. We can, we must, but these four elements must all be present: Political leaders and the public must care to solve a problem; institutions must support its solution; It must really be a technological problem; and we must understand it. The Apollo mission, which has become a kind of metaphor for technology's capacity to solve big problems, met these criteria. But it is an irreproducible model for the future. It is not 1961. There is no galvanizing contest like the Cold War, no politician like John Kennedy who can heroize the difficult and the dangerous, and no popular science fictional mythology such as exploring the solar system. Most of all, going to the moon turned out to be easy. It was just three days away. And arguably it wasn't even solving much of a problem. We are left alone with our day, and the solutions of the future will be harder won. God knows, we don't lack for the challenges. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	"我們曾經解決過一些大問題1969年7月21號巴茲‧奧爾德林從阿波羅11號的登月艙爬出降落到月球的寧靜海區域（阿波羅11號登陸的著陸區）阿姆斯壯和奧爾德林隻身來到月球，但是他們在月球的灰色表面上現身是出於眾多嘔心瀝血努力得來的顛峰之作 整個阿波羅計劃是非戰爭時期最偉大的動員在美國歷史裡為了登陸月球，NASA 花了以現今的貨幣來計算大約是一億八千萬美金或是4%的聯邦總預算阿波羅計畫大約雇用了40萬人並且要總數兩萬個公司，大學以及政府單位相互合作許多人因此送命，包含在阿波羅一號所罹難的工作人員但是在整個阿波羅計畫終止以前有24位人員被送上了月球當中12位在月球表面漫步，其中的奧爾德林從去年阿姆斯壯逝世之後是現今最老的一位。 回過頭來，他們為什麼要登陸月球?他們沒帶多少東西回來841磅的舊石頭以及24位太空人在之後強調的一種新的自我渺小認知和我們共同的家園-地球，是多麼脆弱那為什麼要送他們上月球? 一種憤世嫉俗的回答是這是因為甘乃迪總統要展現他的國家擁有比蘇聯更好的火箭但甘乃迪在1962年於萊斯大學所做的演講提供了更好的線索。 甘乃迪：有人問，為什麼是月球?為什麼要選這個當作我們的目標？這個問題問得好為什麼要攀登最高的山峰？為什麼35年前要飛越大西洋？為什麼萊斯大學在德州？我們選擇要登陸月球是我們選擇要登陸月球(掌聲)我們選擇在十年內登陸月球並且做其他的事情不是因為它們容易，而是因為它們困難。 演講者:在當時阿波羅計畫不只是西方戰勝東方在冷戰時期的勝利。在當下，最強烈的情感是驚訝於科技的卓越力量他們去是因為要完成這件大事登陸月球引發了一連串在科技上的大勝利在20世紀的前半製造出了組裝線以及飛機盤尼西林以及結核病疫苗在20世紀的中期小兒麻痺徹底根絕、天花絕跡科技本身似乎擁有Alvin Toffler在1970說的""加速度推力""實現在整個人類歷史上我們不能移動的比馬快或者是比帆船快但是1969年，阿波羅10號的機員飛行速度是每小時25000英里 自從1970年開始，就沒有人類再回到月球沒有人可以移動的快過於阿波羅10當中的機組人員此時，對科技力量的樂觀無憂已經消失殆盡那些我們期待科技力量可以解決的大問題例如登陸火星創造乾淨能源，治癒癌症或是解決糧食問題都變成了棘手的困難 我記得當時看到阿波羅17號升空我當時五歲，我母親告訴我，不要直視火星五號火箭的燃燒推進器我隱約地知道這將是最後一次月球計劃但我相信將來絕對會有火星殖民計劃出現在我的有生之年。 所以，""我們對使用科技來解決大問題無能為力""這一論點變得稀鬆平常。你常常聽到這些我們已經在過去兩天內從 TED 大會中聽到這些那感覺像是科學家使我們歡愉並且將一些無足輕重的玩具來豐富他們自己，就像是智慧型手機、應用程式以及社交媒體或是加速自動化交易的演算法大多數這些事情並沒有什麼錯它們拓展並且豐富了我們的生活但是它們並沒有解決人類的大問題。 發生了什麽事?在矽谷，有一個狹隘的解釋他們承認，跟過去比起來，野心勃勃的公司較難募得基金在他們準備上市的時候英特爾、微軟、蘋果以及基因泰克矽谷的人說，市場是罪魁禍首特別是鼓勵那些風險資本家提供資金給創業者矽谷的人說，那些風險資本家的投資從可以改變本質的想法移到了可以增加附加價值的問題上或者是假的問題。但我不覺得這解釋夠好。這頂多解釋了矽谷出了什麼錯。即使當風險資本家面對他們最大可容忍風險，他們也只願意提供很少的投資這十年內的微量投資讓人們不斷地退出風險資本家老是很掙扎對於投資在科技上的獲利像是能源這種需要大量資本長時間的開發週期而風險投資家從來，從來不投資可以解決大問題的科技研究這些研究往往無法有短期的經濟效益。不，我們無法解決大問題的原因比這更複雜和深奧 有些時候我們選擇不去解決大問題我們可以去火星，只要我們想做到NASA對這計畫已經有了大綱但是去火星需要的是政治決定由社會普遍呼籲，但這事情從沒發生過。我們無法去火星是因為每個人都這樣想在地球上，有著更重要的事情正等著我們去做。 有時候，我們無法解決大問題是因為我們的政治制度失敗現今，少於2%的全世界能源消耗是取得於先進技術，可重複性使用資源像是太陽能，風力以及生化燃油少於2%而原因是純粹經濟上煤炭和天然氣是比太陽能及風力發電還來的便宜，而石油又比生物燃料便宜。我們尋求替代能源可以在價格上有競爭力，但是找不到。現今，科技人員，企業領袖和經濟學家都基本上同意國家政策以及國際條約將刺激這些替代能源的開發：大多數是對於能源的研究與開發將會顯著地增加，並且對碳排放開始定價。但是對於現今的政治氛圍，這是沒有希望的這是我們在美國能源政策或是國際條約上看到的 有時候，大問題通常都是科技上的但並非如此。飢荒已經長期被公認為是食物供給出現問題。但是三十年來的研究告訴我們飢荒是由於政治危機災難般地影響著食物配給科技可以改善的事情像是作物產量或是儲存以及運送食物的系統但是如今還有飢荒是因為有糟糕的政府 最後，有時逃避解決大問題是因為我們不瞭解問題。尼克森總統在1971年向癌症宣戰但不久我們發現有太多種類的癌症，大多數是如惡魔似地難以治療，而僅僅在過去的十年有效且可實行的治療方法才真正的出現。困難問題就是難以解決 但這不代表我們無法透過科技來解決大問題我們可以，我們必須，但需要有四個要素都必須符合：政治領袖和群眾必須關心來解決問題；機構必須支持其解決方案；它必須真的是個科技問題；而我們必須要了解它。 阿波羅任務已經成為一種象徵代表科技的能力足以解決大問題，它也達到這些準則。展望未來，這是一個不可複製的典範。現在不是1961。已經沒有像冷戰時代的軍備競賽，沒有像甘乃迪的政治家可以英雄式的挑戰困難與危險，並且沒有普遍的科幻小說像是探索太陽系。絕大多數，登陸月球已經變得平凡無奇僅僅只是三天光景。雄辯地說詞對解決問題無法帶來多大的幫助。 我們繼續過我們的日子，而在未來是更難以獲得解決方案。上帝知道，我們不乏挑戰。 謝謝 (掌聲)"
