Talk	en	zh-tw
jason_fried_why_work_doesn_t_happen_at_work	"So I'm going to talk about work; specifically, why people can't seem to get work done at work, which is a problem we all kind of have. But let's sort of start at the beginning. So, we have companies and non-profits and charities and all these groups that have employees or volunteers of some sort. And they expect these people who work for them to do great work — I would hope, at least. At least good work, hopefully, at least it's good work — hopefully great work. And so what they typically do is they decide that all these people need to come together in one place to do that work. So a company, or a charity, or an organization of any kind, unless you're working in Africa, if you're really lucky to do that — most people have to go to an office every day. And so these companies, they build offices. They go out and they buy a building, or they rent a building, or they lease some space, and they fill this space with stuff. They fill it with tables, or desks, chairs, computer equipment, software, Internet access, maybe a fridge, maybe a few other things, and they expect their employees, or their volunteers, to come to that location every day to do great work. It seems like it's perfectly reasonable to ask that. However, if you actually talk to people and even question yourself, and you ask yourself, where do you really want to go when you really need to get something done? You'll find out that people don't say what businesses think they would say. If you ask people the question: Where do you need to go when you need to get something done? Typically, you get three different kinds of answers. One is kind of a place or a location or a room. Another one is a moving object, and a third is a time. So here are some examples. I've been asking people this question for about 10 years: ""Where do you go when you really need to get something done?"" I'll hear things like, the porch, the deck, the kitchen. I'll hear things like an extra room in the house, the basement, the coffee shop, the library. And then you'll hear things like the train, a plane, a car — so, the commute. And then you'll hear people say, ""Well, it doesn't really matter where I am, as long as it's early in the morning or late at night or on the weekends."" You almost never hear someone say, ""The office."" But businesses are spending all this money on this place called the office, and they're making people go to it all the time, yet people don't do work in the office. What is that about? (Laughter) Why is that? Why is that happening? And what you find out is, if you dig a little bit deeper, you find out that people — this is what happens: People go to work, and they're basically trading in their work day for a series of ""work moments"" — that's what happens at the office. You don't have a work day anymore. You have work moments. It's like the front door of the office is like a Cuisinart, and you walk in and your day is shredded to bits, because you have 15 minutes here, 30 minutes there, and something else happens, you're pulled off your work, then you have 20 minutes, then it's lunch, then you have something else to do ... Then you've got 15 minutes, and someone pulls you aside and asks you a question, and before you know it, it's 5 p.m., and you look back on the day, and you realize that you didn't get anything done. We've all been through this. We probably went through it yesterday or the day before, or the day before that. You look back on your day, and you're like, ""I got nothing done today. I was at work. I sat at my desk. I used my expensive computer. I used the software they told me to use. I went to these meetings I was asked to go to. I did these conference calls. I did all this stuff. But I didn't actually do anything. I just did tasks. I didn't actually get meaningful work done."" And what you find is that, especially with creative people — designers, programmers, writers, engineers, thinkers — that people really need long stretches of uninterrupted time to get something done. You cannot ask somebody to be creative in 15 minutes and really think about a problem. You might have a quick idea, but to be in deep thought about a problem and really consider a problem carefully, you need long stretches of uninterrupted time. And even though the work day is typically eight hours, how many people here have ever had eight hours to themselves at the office? How about seven hours? Six? Five? Four? When's the last time you had three hours to yourself at the office? Two hours? One, maybe? Very, very few people actually have long stretches of uninterrupted time at an office. And this is why people choose to do work at home, or they might go to the office, but they might go to the office really early in the day, or late at night when no one's around, or they stick around after everyone's left, or go in on the weekends, or they get work done on the plane, in the car or in the train, because there are no distractions. Now there are different kinds of distractions, but not the really bad distractions, which I'll talk about in a minute. And this whole phenomenon of having short bursts of time to get things done reminds me of another thing that doesn't work when you're interrupted, and that is sleep. I think that sleep and work are very closely related — not because you can work while you're sleeping and sleep while you're working. That's not really what I mean. I'm talking specifically about the fact that sleep and work are phase-based, or stage-based, events. Sleep is about sleep phases, or stages — some people call them different things. There are five of them, and in order to get to the really deep ones, the meaningful ones, you have to go through the early ones. If you're interrupted while you're going through the early ones — if someone bumps you in bed, or there's a sound, or whatever happens — you don't just pick up where you left off. If you're interrupted and woken up, you have to start again. So you have to go back a few phases and start again. And what ends up happening — you might have days like this where you wake up at eight or seven in the morning, or whenever you get up, and you're like, ""I didn't sleep very well. I did the sleep thing — I went to bed, I laid down, but I didn't really sleep."" People say you go ""to"" sleep, but you don't go to sleep, you go towards sleep; it takes a while. You've got to go through phases and stuff, and if you're interrupted, you don't sleep well. So does anyone here expect someone to sleep well if they're interrupted all night? I don't think anyone would say yes. Why do we expect people to work well if they're being interrupted all day at the office? How can we possibly expect people to do their job if they go to the office and are interrupted? That doesn't really seem like it makes a lot of sense, to me. So what are the interruptions that happen at the office but not at other places? Because in other places, you can have interruptions like the TV, or you could go for a walk, or there's a fridge downstairs, or you've got your own couch, or whatever you want to do. If you talk to certain managers, they'll tell you that they don't want their employees to work at home because of these distractions. They'll sometimes also say, ""If I can't see the person, how do I know they're working?"" which is ridiculous, but that's one of the excuses that managers give. And I'm one of these managers. I understand. I know how this goes. We all have to improve on this sort of thing. But oftentimes they'll cite distractions: ""I can't let someone work at home. They'll watch TV, or do this other thing."" It turns out those aren't the things that are distracting, Because those are voluntary distractions. You decide when you want to be distracted by the TV, when you want to turn something on, or when you want to go downstairs or go for a walk. At the office, most of the interruptions and distractions that really cause people not to get work done are involuntary. So let's go through a couple of those. Now, managers and bosses will often have you think that the real distractions at work are things like Facebook and Twitter and YouTube and other websites, and in fact, they'll go so far as to actually ban these sites at work. Some of you may work at places where you can't get to certain sites. I mean, is this China? What the hell is going on here? You can't go to a website at work, and that's the problem? That's why people aren't getting work done, because they're on Facebook and Twitter? That's kind of ridiculous. It's a total decoy. Today's Facebook and Twitter and YouTube, these things are just modern-day smoke breaks. No one cared about letting people take a smoke break for 15 minutes 10 years ago, so why does anyone care if someone goes to Facebook or Twitter or YouTube here and there? Those aren't the real problems in the office. The real problems are what I like to call the M&Ms, the Managers and the Meetings. Those are the real problems in the modern office today. And this is why things don't get done at work, it's because of the M&Ms. Now what's interesting is, if you listen to all the places that people talk about doing work, like at home, in the car, on a plane, late at night, or early in the morning, you don't find managers and meetings. You find a lot of other distractions, but not managers and meetings. So these are the things that you don't find elsewhere, but you do find at the office. And managers are basically people whose job it is to interrupt people. That's pretty much what managers are for. They're for interrupting people. They don't really do the work, so they make sure everyone else is doing work, which is an interruption. We have lots of managers in the world now, and a lot of people in the world, and a lot of interruptions by these managers. They have to check in: ""Hey, how's it going? Show me what's up."" This sort of thing. They keep interrupting you at the wrong time, while you're actually trying to do something they're paying you to do, they tend to interrupt you. That's kind of bad. But what's even worse is the thing that managers do most of all, which is call meetings. And meetings are just toxic, terrible, poisonous things during the day at work. (Laughter) We all know this to be true, and you would never see a spontaneous meeting called by employees. It doesn't work that way. The manager calls the meeting so the employees can all come together, and it's an incredibly disruptive thing to do to people — to say, ""Hey look, we're going to bring 10 people together right now and have a meeting. I don't care what you're doing, you've got to stop doing it, so you can have this meeting."" I mean, what are the chances that all 10 people are ready to stop? What if they're thinking about something important, or doing important work? All of a sudden you tell them they have to stop doing that to do something else. So they go into a meeting room, they get together, and they talk about stuff that doesn't really matter, usually. Because meetings aren't work. Meetings are places to go to talk about things you're supposed to be doing later. But meetings also procreate. So one meeting tends to lead to another meeting, which leads to another meeting. There's often too many people in the meetings, and they're very, very expensive to the organization. Companies often think of a one-hour meeting as a one-hour meeting, but that's not true, unless there's only one person. If there are 10 people, it's a 10-hour meeting, not a one-hour meeting. It's 10 hours of productivity taken from the rest of the organization to have this one-hour meeting, which probably should have been handled by two or three people talking for a few minutes. But instead, there's a long scheduled meeting, because meetings are scheduled the way software works, which is in increments of 15 minutes, or 30 minutes, or an hour. You don't schedule an eight-hour meeting with Outlook; you can't. You can go 15 minutes or 30 minutes or 45 minutes or an hour. And so we tend to fill these times up when things should go really quickly. So meetings and managers are two major problems in businesses today, especially at offices. These things don't exist outside of the office. So I have some suggestions to remedy the situation. What can managers do — enlightened managers, hopefully — what can they do to make the office a better place for people to work, so it's not the last resort, but it's the first resort, so that people start to say, ""When I really want to get stuff done, I go to the office."" Because the offices are well-equipped; everything is there for them to do the work. But they don't want to go there right now, so how do we change that? I have three suggestions to share with you. I have about three minutes, so that'll fit perfectly. We've all heard of the Casual Friday thing. I don't know if people still do that. But how about ""No-talk Thursdays?"" (Laughter) Pick one Thursday once a month, and cut it in half, just the afternoon — I'll make it easy for you. So just the afternoon, one Thursday. First Thursday of the month, just the afternoon, nobody in the office can talk to each other. Just silence, that's it. And what you'll find is that a tremendous amount of work gets done when no one talks to each other. This is when people actually get stuff done, is when no one's bothering them or interrupting them. Giving someone four hours of uninterrupted time is the best gift you can give anybody at work. It's better than a computer, better than a new monitor, better than new software, or whatever people typically use. Giving them four hours of quiet time at the office is going to be incredibly valuable. If you try that, I think you'll agree, and hopefully you can do it more often. So maybe it's every other week, or every week, once a week, afternoons no one can talk to each other. That's something that you'll find will really, really work. Another thing you can try, is switching from active communication and collaboration, which is like face-to-face stuff — tapping people on the shoulder, saying hi to them, having meetings, and replace that with more passive models of communication, using things like email and instant messaging, or collaboration products, things like that. Now some people might say email is really distracting, I.M. is really distracting, and these other things are really distracting, but they're distracting at a time of your own choice and your own choosing. You can quit the email app; you can't quit your boss. You can quit I.M.; you can't hide your manager. You can put these things away, and then you can be interrupted on your own schedule, at your own time, when you're available, when you're ready to go again. Because work, like sleep, happens in phases. So you'll be going up, doing some work, and then you'll come down from that work, and then maybe it's time to check that email or I.M. There are very, very few things that are that urgent, that need to happen, that need to be answered right this second. So if you're a manager, start encouraging people to use more things like I.M. and email and other things that someone can put away and then get back to you on their own schedule. And the last suggestion I have is that, if you do have a meeting coming up, if you have the power, just cancel it. Just cancel that next meeting. (Laughter) Today's Friday, usually people have meetings on Monday. Just don't have it. I don't mean move it; I mean just erase it from memory, it's gone. And you'll find out that everything will be just fine. All these discussions and decisions you thought you had to make at this one time at 9 a.m. on Monday, just forget about them, and things will be fine. People will have a more open morning, they can actually think. You'll find out all these things you thought you had to do, you don't actually have to do. So those are just three quick suggestions I wanted to give you guys to think about. I hope that some of these ideas were at least provocative enough for managers and bosses and business owners and organizers and people who are in charge of other people, to think about laying off a little bit, and giving people more time to get work done. I think it'll all pay off in the end. So, thanks for listening. (Applause)"	"我要來談工作精確的說，為什麼上班時沒辦法完成工作這情形大家應該都遇過我們從頭開始很多公司、非營利企業、慈善機構等等公司行號都有員工或是志工之類的主管們會希望員工好好工作至少努力工作這是基本要求，能拿出優秀的成績是最好的所以他們通常會決定員工通通要到同一地點上班工作所以公司行號、各大機構除非你住非洲，會比較幸運否則通常都會被要求每天進辦公室所以這些公司需要辦公室存在用買的或租下辦公大樓或是租個地方放滿東西，將就著用辦公室放滿桌椅、電腦設備、軟體、網路連線或許加個冰箱等等東西老闆們希望員工，或志工們能每天上班，做出一番成果聽起來是個合理要求 但如果你親自訪問這些人甚至問問自己問自己：你真想把事情做好的時候，會去哪裡？通常你會聽到的回答都不是這些公司們所想的你如果問：你真想把事情做好的時候，會去哪裡？通常有三類答案第一：地點第二：移動的物體第三：時間 我舉例一下這問題我已經問十幾年了我問：你想把事情做好的時候，會去哪裡？我得到的答案有：門廊、桌前、廚房、房子裡額外的小房間、地下室、咖啡店、圖書館還有像是火車、飛機上、車裡，關於交通的答案也有人回答「其實跟地點沒關係，」「只要是在清晨、深夜、週末的時候就可以」幾乎沒人講辦公室但公司花大錢設置辦公室還要求大家一定要進辦公室但員工卻無法在辦公室內完成工作 搞什麼？為什麼？為什麼會這樣？如果你深究的話會發現通常大家上班時一個工作天其實是分很多片段的這就是辦公室的情況已經不是工作「天」，而是工作「片刻」進辦公室好像走進榨汁機一樣一天就這樣被榨成片段這邊15分鐘，那邊30分鐘的拼湊常常有什麼事，就得分神去處理跑去做別的事之後，再專心個20分鐘，就中餐時間了然後又有別的事要做，再專心15分鐘，然後有人跑來問你的問題等你回神，就五點下班時間了然後回顧一整天發現你根本什麼也沒做我們應該都遇過這種情況也許昨天就是這樣前天也是、大前天也是每天回顧，恍然發現什麼事也沒做我進了辦公室我坐在電腦前，打著昂貴電腦用著他們裝的軟體開上頭要我參加的會議打打電話之類的事但其實什麼都沒做我做「瑣事」而已其實正經事都沒做 尤其你會發現，有創意的人—設計師、程式設計師、作家、工程師、工作必須思考的人都需要連續、不被打擾的時間才能將事情做好你不能要求一個人，用15分鐘時間想創意或想出辦法解決問題可能會有很快的一個想法但真想要徹底想出解決方案就一定需要長時間、不被打擾的時間正常一個工作天是八小時你們有多少人在辦公室，八小時都是自己的時間？七小時？六？五？四？你什麼時候真的在辦公室獨處過完整3小時？兩小時？或許一小時？很少人在辦公室真的有長時間、不被打擾的時間這就是為什麼大家選擇在家工作他們也許可能會進辦公室但都是在很早的時候或是很晚，大家都離開時等到沒人，或是周末進辦公室又或是在飛機上把工作做完或是在車上、火車上因為這樣才不會被打擾 干擾有很多種但有些並非不好我們等會兒再談這種短暫工作時刻的整個現象讓我想到另一件事當你做這件事的時候也不能被打擾就是睡覺睡覺跟工作習習相關不是因為睡覺時無法工作工作時不能睡覺我不是要講這個我要講的是睡覺和工作都是階段性的或稱做時期性的所以睡覺也是很多階段、時期 —說法有很多種總共有五個階段為了進到最深沉的階段就必須從最初那一階開始如果你第一階段就被打擾可能有人翻身碰到你或許是有什麼聲音之類的你沒辦法回到原本階段繼續睡 如果被打擾後醒來就必須重頭開始就得回到前幾個階段重來很常發生的情況是 — 有時候你會發現當你八點起床，或七點起床隨便幾點起床後就想，天哪，我沒睡好我有睡阿 — 我爬上床、躺下但沒有真的睡著我們說去睡覺其實不是一倒下就睡著，而是進入夢鄉是需要時間的，一階一階慢慢來如果被干擾，當然就睡不好整夜一直被打擾能睡的好嗎？應該不行吧在辦公室裡不斷被打擾是要怎麼把工作做好啊？在辦公室裡一直被打擾要員工怎麼把事情做好？對我來說，一點也不合理 那這些干擾只發生在辦公室其他地方不會發生嗎？其他地方也是會有干擾或許會跑去看電視或是散個步到樓下冰箱拿個飲料躺一下沙發等等如果你和一些主管談過他們會說，他們不喜歡員工在家工作的原因是因為容易受干擾他們也說偶爾會這樣說""如果我看不到人影，怎麼知道他在工作?""這理由很荒繆，但他們都用這藉口我也是經理所以我懂但我們要改善這情形可是他們常會舉例""我不能讓員工在家工作""""因為他們會看電視、做別的事""但其實這些讓你分心的事，並不是真的干擾因為這些干擾是自願性的你自己決定什麼時候看電視開什麼、關什麼、用什麼決定什麼時候下樓、散步而辦公室裡的大多數干擾讓人們無法好好工作的都是非自願的我來解釋一下 所以，上司、老闆們常會告訴你，工作時真正會讓你分心的是Facebook和Twitter還有Youtube等其他網站他們甚至會完全禁止上班瀏覽這些網站你們有些人的公司可能會擋某些網站這是中國嗎? 搞什麼?上班時候不能逛某些網站因為逛了之後員工會不想工作？是因為他們玩Facebook或Twitter?大瞎了吧，根本是胡扯今日的Facebook、Twitter、YouTube等於是以前的抽菸時間而已十年前，上班時間溜出去15分鐘抽個菸根本沒人管現在為什麼偶爾上個Facebook、Twitter、YouTube就意見一大堆？這些根本不是真正的問題 真正的問題我稱做是M&M's經理(managers)和會議(meetings)這才是現今辦公室裡最大的問題員工沒辦法順利完成工作就是因為M&M's有趣的事來了很多人說他們工作的地方—在家、車上、飛機上、深夜、清晨通常都沒有經理和會議也許有很多其他干擾，但沒有經理和會議這兩樣其他地方沒有唯有辦公室裡會出現經理的工作基本上就是去打擾別人他們的工作大概就這樣，打擾別人沒有真正要做的事所以只好確保大家都在做事，變成干擾現在世上很多經理世界上也很多人因為這些經理，所以很多干擾他們很愛跑來「嘿，還好嗎？」「報告你的進度」等等而且都會在錯誤時機來打擾正當你要好好做正事時他們就會跑來煩你 蠻糟的吧經理們會做的另一件更糟的事就是會議會議根本就有毒很糟、劇毒的東西會在工作時毒死你我們心知肚明會議不會是員工隨意召開不可能的所以經理召開會議讓員工聚在一起然後無敵煩的事情發生了""嘿，聽著""""馬上找十個人來開會""""我不管你在幹麻""""放下手邊工作開會就是了""有可能剛好十個人都有空開會嗎？如果他們在想重要的事呢？或者在做重要的事呢？突然間你就叫他們停下手邊工作改做其他事被叫到會議室，坐下來討論無關緊要的事開會是行不通的開會通常都是要討論之後做的事 不只如此，會議還會繁殖一個會開完再衍生出另一個會議然後沒完沒了而且開會的人多對公司成本來說是個損失我們通常覺得一小時的會議就是一小時但這是錯的，因為會議不只有一個人如果有十個人去開會，加起來就十小時了，而非一小時十小時的生產力就這樣沒了就為這一小時的會議而開會本來就可以兩三個人用幾分鐘時間就能完成的取而代之的是又臭又長的會因為會議安排就像軟體一樣以15、30、60分增加你不會跟Outlook開八小時的會吧根本不可能大概就以15、30、45、60分鐘我們會將這些時間填滿但其實事情很快就能解決 所以經理和會議是現今公司的兩大問題特別是在辦公室裡他們不存在於辦公室外所以我有個建議可以解決這問題經理們可以—希望是理智的經理—他們可以替員工創造好一點的工作環境成為他們工作的第一選擇讓員工說""我想把工作做好時，我會進辦公室""因為辦公室設備充足需要用到的東西都有了可是他們還不這麼想，要怎麼改變呢？我有三個建議，與各位分享大概還剩三分鐘，很剛好 大家都聽過""週五便服日""吧不曉得還有沒有公司採用那各位覺得""無言星期四""如何？就這樣好了隨便挑一個月裡的星期四再簡單一點，那個星期四下午就好就那星期四的下午假設就第一個週四的下午大家在辦公室都不要講話完全靜默你會發現完成的工作量有多驚人因為沒有人聊天講話要真的把事情做好就不能有人隨時來煩、叨擾當你可以給人四小時不受打擾的上班時間會是最好的禮物比電腦還棒比新的螢幕、新的軟體還好總之比什麼都好給他們安靜的四小時上班時間會是十分寶貴的試過就知道然後，或許可以多增加點安靜時間也許是每兩週、或每週、一週一次整個下午都不講話你會發現這真的很有效 你可以試的另一件事就是將主動的通訊與合作像是面對面、拍肩、打招呼、開會等等改為被動的通訊像是email或即時通這些合作通訊工具之類的有人可能會覺得email很煩即時通很煩還有其他雜七雜八很煩的東西但這些東西都可以自己決定什麼時候做你可以關掉email，但你關不掉老闆你可以關掉即時通但你躲不了你的上司你可以把東西收起來等到行程空出來、有時間了再做這些事因為工作，如睡覺，都是階段式的所以，進辦公室先開始專心工作把工作完成之後再收發email、開個即時通因為很少有事情是緊急到需要馬上得到回覆的如果你的經理開始鼓勵員工多用即時通或email讓另一個人可以先專心作手邊的事等到有時間在回覆你 我的最後一個建議是如果你正巧有個會議要開而你權力夠大就取消這場會議吧今天是週五，那就把下星期一的會議取消吧我不是說調時間而是直接從記憶刪除你發現事情還是一切安好這些你本來計畫週一早上九點要做的決定、討論就忘掉吧，事情一樣會好好的讓員工有個自由的早晨，可以思考你會發現你本來打算做的事根本沒這個必要 以上就是我的三個小建議讓各位想想我希望我所分享的一些點子足夠煽動能讓經理、老闆、頂頭上司、主管等等試著稍微放手給員工多一點空間來完成工作我想最終會是值得的 謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
