Talk	en	zh-tw
jay_walker_s_library_of_human_imagination	These rocks have been hitting our earth for about three billion years, and are responsible for much of what’s gone on on our planet. This is an example of a real meteorite, and you can see all the melting of the iron from the speed and the heat when a meteorite hits the earth, and just how much of it survives and melts. From a meteorite from space, we’re over here with an original Sputnik. This is one of the seven surviving Sputniks that was not launched into space. This is not a copy. The space age began 50 years ago in October, and that’s exactly what Sputnik looked like. And it wouldn’t be fun to talk about the space age without seeing a flag that was carried to the moon and back, on Apollo 11. The astronauts each got to carry about ten silk flags in their personal kits. They would bring them back and mount them. So this has actually been carried to the moon and back. So that’s for fun. The dawn of books is, of course, important. And it wouldn’t be interesting to talk about the dawn of books without having a copy of a Guttenberg Bible. You can see how portable and handy it was to have your own Guttenberg in 1455. But what’s interesting about the Guttenberg Bible, and the dawn of this technology, is not the book. You see, the book was not driven by reading. In 1455, nobody could read. So why did the printing press succeed? This is an original page of a Guttenberg Bible. So you’re looking here at one of the first printed books using movable type in the history of man, 550 years ago. We are living at the age here at the end of the book, where electronic paper will undoubtedly replace it. But why is this so interesting? Here’s the quick story. It turns out that in the 1450s, the Catholic Church needed money, and so they actually hand-wrote these things called indulgences, which were forgiveness’s on pieces of paper. They traveled all around Europe and sold by the hundreds or by the thousands. They got you out of purgatory faster. And when the printing press was invented what they found was they could print indulgences, which was the equivalent of printing money. And so all of Western Europe started buying printing presses in 1455 — to print out thousands, and then hundreds of thousands, and then ultimately millions of single, small pieces of paper that got you out of middle hell and into heaven. That is why the printing press succeeded, and that is why Martin Luther nailed his 90 theses to the door: because he was complaining that the Catholic Church had gone amok in printing out indulgences and selling them in every town and village and city in all of Western Europe. So the printing press, ladies and gentlemen, was driven entirely by the printing of forgivenesses and had nothing to do with reading. More tomorrow. I also have pictures coming of the library for those of you that have asked for pictures. We’re going to have some tomorrow. (Applause) Instead of showing an object from the stage I’m going to do something special for the first time. We are going to show, actually, what the library looks like, OK? So, I am married to the most wonderful woman in the world. You’re going to find out why in a minute, because when I went to see Eileen, this is what I said I wanted to build. This is the Library of Human Imagination. The room itself is three stories tall. In the glass panels are 5,000 years of human imagination that are computer controlled. The room is a theatre. It changes colors. And all throughout the library are different objects, different spaces. It’s designed like an Escher print. Here is some of the lower level of the library, where the exhibits constantly change. You can walk through. You can touch. You can see exactly how many of these types of items would fit in a room. There’s my very own Saturn V. Everybody should have one, OK? (Laughter) So you can see here in the lower level of the library the books and the objects. In the glass panels all along is sort of the history of imagination. There is a glass bridge that you walk across that’s suspended in space. So it’s a leap of imagination. How do we create? Part of the question that I have answered is, is we create by surrounding ourselves with stimuli: with human achievement, with history, with the things that drive us and make us human — the passionate discovery, the bones of dinosaurs long gone, the maps of space that we’ve experienced, and ultimately the hallways that stimulate our mind and our imagination. So hopefully tomorrow I’ll show one or two more objects from the stage, but for today I just wanted to say thank you for all the people that came and talked to us about it. And Eileen and I are thrilled to open our home and share it with the TED community. (Applause) TED is all about patterns in the clouds. It’s all about connections. It’s all about seeing things that everybody else has seen before but thinking about them in ways that nobody has thought of them before. And that’s really what discovery and imagination is all about. For example, we can look at a DNA molecule model here. None of us really have ever seen one, but we know it exists because we’ve been taught to understand this molecule. But we can also look at an Enigma machine from the Nazis in World War II that was a coding and decoding machine. Now, you might say, what does this have to do with this? Well, this is the code for life, and this is a code for death. These two molecules code and decode. And yet, looking at them, you would see a machine and a molecule. But once you’ve seen them in a new way, you realize that both of these things really are connected. And they’re connected primarily because of this here. You see, this is a human brain model, OK? And it’s rare, because we never really get to see a brain. We get to see a skull. But there it is. All of imagination — everything that we think, we feel, we sense — comes through the human brain. And once we create new patterns in this brain, once we shape the brain in a new way, it never returns to its original shape. And I’ll give you a quick example. We think about the Internet; we think about information that goes across the Internet. And we never think about the hidden connection. But I brought along here a lump of coal — right here, one lump of coal. And what does a lump of coal have to do with the Internet? You see, it takes the energy in one lump of coal to move one megabyte of information across the net. So every time you download a file, each megabyte is a lump of coal. What that means is, a 200-megabyte file looks like this, ladies and gentlemen. OK? So the next time you download a gigabyte, or two gigabytes, it’s not for free, OK? The connection is the energy it takes to run the web , and to make everything we think possible, possible. Thanks, Chris. (Applause)	三十億年來,這些石頭不斷撞擊地球，對地球造成許多影響，這是顆真實的隕石樣本，你可以看到上面融化的鐵，這是流星撞擊地球時,由速度與高熱所造成的，你也可以看到它殘存的部位。這是太空來的隕石，這裡則有顆人造衛星。這是未發射至太空的七顆人造衛星之一，這不是複製品。五十年前的十月,人類進入太空世代，那正是人造衛星的外觀。 而談到太空世代，就不能不提那個有趣的東西，就是那些搭著阿波羅11號上過太空，到過月球，又回到地球的旗子。每個太空人都要帶大約十面旗幟放在個人行李中，他們把旗子帶回來裱褙，所以,這些旗子真的上了月球，又回到地球。以上,純粹讓大家開開心。 書本的問世很重要,這無庸置疑；而談到書本的問世，也不能不提到這個有趣的東西－古騰堡聖經。你看,古騰堡聖經多麼輕薄短小，一本在手，在1455年有多方便。不過，古騰堡聖經和印刷術發明的有趣之處，並不在書的本身。你看，它並非為了閱讀而生，因為1455年一般人並不識字，那麼為何印刷機能獲得成功呢?這是原版古騰堡聖經的其中一頁，在你眼前的，是在550年前，世上第一批使用活字版印刷的書本之一。我們現在生存的年代已是書本的末世，書本無疑將被電子書取代。 這到底有什麼有趣的?我簡短介紹一下。經查證發現,在1450年代，由於天主教教會需要錢，所以他們印製..他們手工繪製了稱為贖罪券的東西，作為上帝的一紙寬恕證明。贖罪券遍布歐洲各地，賣了數百張、數千張，它們能助你迅速脫離人世的苦難。而當印刷機問世，教會發現可以運用印刷機來印製贖罪券，這就等於是在印鈔票。 因此，1455年起全西歐都開始買印刷機，拿來印幾千張、幾十萬張、甚至幾百萬張的單張小紙片，讓你從煉獄上天堂。這就是印刷機成功的原因，這也是為什麼馬丁路德要把他的九十幾張贖罪券釘在門上，因為他要抗議天主教會根本瘋了，居然會印製贖罪券來賣，還在西歐的每個小鎮、村子和城市到處販售。 因此呢，各位先生女士，印刷機之所以普及，完全是為了印制上帝的寬恕證明，跟閱讀毫不相干。明天再談多一點吧，我有幾張圖書館的照片，要給那些說要看照片的人看看，留一些明天再談吧。(掌聲) 我不打算在台上展示實體物件，我想先來點新鮮的，我讓你們先看看圖書館實際的樣子，可以嗎?看，我娶了全世界最棒的女人，一分鐘後你就知道為什麼了。因為當我見到Eileen，我就知道我想蓋的就是這樣的圖書館， 那是一座收藏了人類想像的圖書館，室內有三層樓高，玻璃牆上展示了五千年來人類的想像發展，它們由電腦控制。展示廳就是劇場，會改變顏色，全館到處都是琳瑯滿目的物品，也區隔出不同空間，設計得像Escher版畫一樣。這是圖書館的下層，展品經常更換。你可以親身走訪，實地觸摸，你看，各式各樣的小玩意和這裡有多相稱。那是我自己的土星五號，每個人都該擁有一個，是吧？你可以看到圖書館的下層，有許多的書本和物品。人類想像的發展歷史沿著玻璃牆開展，你可以穿過這座玻璃橋，它懸在半空中。以上均來自想像的躍動。 而我們要如何開發想像力呢?我已經回答了部分的問題，那就是讓自己常常接受各種刺激，包括人類的成就及歷史，還有那些讓人之所以為人的事物。那些充滿熱情的發現、恐龍的遠古遺骸、那些我們曾旅行過的太空地圖，最後,那些激發我們心智與想像的殿堂。 希望明天我能拿出更多實物在台上展示，而今天，我想說聲感謝你們，感謝所有來賓及與會者，Eileen和我很願意敞開我們家大門，和TED團隊一起分享。(掌聲)TED匯集了人們各種思考模式，將許多舊有知識連結，也提供觀看事物的新方法。將人們習以為常的事物，以創新的觀點來看待，這不正是發現和想像的真義嗎? 好比，我們可以看到，這裡有個DNA分子模型，我們不曾親眼看過DNA分子，但經過教導，我們知道它確實存在，因此能認同這個模型。同樣地,我們看到這台Enigma密碼機，它在二戰中為納粹所用，拿來編碼和解碼。現在你可能會問，這和那有什麼關係?你看，這是生命的密碼，而那是死亡的密碼。這兩樣東西，同樣都是在編碼和解碼。雖然，你看到的是一台機器和一座模型，但若你用新的觀點來切入，你就會明白，它們確實有所關聯。而兩者之所以能產生連結，主要歸功於它， 看，這是人類的腦部模型，對吧?這很珍貴，因為我們不可能實際看到人腦組織，我們常看到骷髏頭，但這是它裡面的內容。它是我們想像的泉源，我們想的、感受的、感覺到的，都在腦袋裡匯集。而一旦我們在腦袋裡創造新的思考模式、腦袋重新塑形之後，就不會再回到原來的樣子了。 我來簡短舉個例子。當我們想到網路，我們想到的是在網路中穿梭的資訊，而我們從未想過它背後有什麼連結，不過,我帶來了一塊煤炭，就在這裡，一塊煤炭，而一塊煤炭和網路有什麼關係呢?你看，一塊煤炭的能量，能驅動一百萬位元(1M)的資訊在網路上流通。所以，每當你下載檔案，每1M就耗費一塊煤炭的能量。那麼，一個200M的檔案又代表什麼呢?看看這個，先生女士們,懂了嗎?所以下次你下載1G或2G的時候，你會知道那不是免費的，對嗎?能量驅動網路運作，這就是之間的關聯，它讓我們所有的想像化為可能。謝謝你，克李斯。(掌聲)
