Talk	en	zh-tw
jd_schramm	From all outward appearances, John had everything going for him. He had just signed the contract to sell his New York apartment at a six-figure profit, and he'd only owned it for five years. The school where he graduated from with his master's had just offered him a teaching appointment, which meant not only a salary, but benefits for the first time in ages. And yet, despite everything going really well for John, he was struggling, fighting addiction and a gripping depression. On the night of June 11th, 2003, he climbed up to the edge of the fence on the Manhattan Bridge and he leaped to the treacherous waters below. Remarkably — no, miraculously — he lived. The fall shattered his right arm, broke every rib that he had, punctured his lung, and he drifted in and out of consciousness as he drifted down the East River, under the Brooklyn Bridge and out into the pathway of the Staten Island Ferry, where passengers on the ferry heard his cries of pain, contacted the boat's captain who contacted the Coast Guard who fished him out of the East River and took him to Bellevue Hospital. And that's actually where our story begins. Because once John committed himself to putting his life back together — first physically, then emotionally, and then spiritually — he found that there were very few resources available to someone who has attempted to end their life in the way that he did. Research shows that 19 out of 20 people who attempt suicide will fail. But the people who fail are 37 times more likely to succeed the second time. This truly is an at-risk population with very few resources to support them. And what happens when people try to assemble themselves back into life, because of our taboos around suicide, we're not sure what to say, and so quite often we say nothing. And that furthers the isolation that people like John found themselves in. I know John's story very well because I'm John. And this is, today, the first time in any sort of public setting I've ever acknowledged the journey that I have been on. But after having lost a beloved teacher in 2006 and a good friend last year to suicide, and sitting last year at TEDActive, I knew that I needed to step out of my silence and past my taboos to talk about an idea worth spreading — and that is that people who have made the difficult choice to come back to life need more resources and need our help. As the Trevor Project says, it gets better. It gets way better. And I'm choosing to come out of a totally different kind of closet today to encourage you, to urge you, that if you are someone who has contemplated or attempted suicide, or you know somebody who has, talk about it; get help. It's a conversation worth having and an idea worth spreading. Thank you. (Applause)	從外表看來各個方面約翰一切都很順利他剛剛簽了一個合同以6位數的價格賣掉了他在紐約僅僅買了五年的公寓他碩士畢業的母校剛剛提供給他了一個教職這個教職不僅意味著一份薪水還有多年以來頭一次的福利然而，即使所有事情看起來都很順利約翰仍然在掙扎中與他的成癮和無法掙脫的抑鬱鬥爭 2003年6月11日的夜晚他爬上了曼哈頓大橋欄杆的邊緣縱身一躍跳入了莫測的河水中奇怪的是不，奇蹟般的是他生還了這一跳摔碎的他的右臂他的所有肋骨都斷掉了還刺穿了他的肺他在清醒跟昏迷中晃蕩沿著東河向下漂穿過布魯克林大橋進入了斯塔騰島渡輪的水道渡輪上聽到了他痛苦的叫喊乘客們聯繫了船長船長聯繫上了海岸警衛隊警衛隊把約翰打撈上來送到Bellevue醫院。 事實上，這只是故事的開始。因為當約翰決心要重新開始他的生活之後——先是身體上，然後是情感上，再然後是精神上——他發現很難找到資源來幫助自己這樣的試圖過自殺的人 研究表明在試圖自殺的20個人中19個會失敗但是這些失敗的人在第二次嘗試的時候有37倍於從前的可能性會成功這些人毫無疑問是處於危險中的人群並且只有極少的資源來幫助他們這樣當自殺過一次的人們試圖重新開始人生的時候因為我們對於自殺的忌諱我們不知道該說些什麼所以大部分時候，我們就對這件事一言不發這就加深了像約翰一樣的人陷入的隔離環境 我對約翰的故事非常了解因為我，就是這個約翰今天，這是我第一次在任何形式的公開場合談起我經過的這段旅程但是，我在2006年失去了一個親愛的老師在去年又出去了一個好朋友，都是因為自殺之後還有去年參加TEDActive（行動）會議我意識到我需要從我自己的沉默中走出來突破我自己的忌諱來談論這個值得散播的觀點——那就是這些作出艱難的決定開始重新生活的人們需要更多的支持資源，以及我們的幫助 就像Trevor項目所說的，一切都在變好一切都會變很好並且我今天也算是出櫃一個不一樣的櫃就是為了鼓勵你們，敦促你們如果你曾經考慮過，或者嘗試過自殺或者你認識考慮過或者嘗試過自殺的人談談這個問題，尋求幫助這是一個值得進行的談話一個值得散播的觀點 謝謝 【掌聲】
