Talk	en	zh-tw
jean_paul_mari_the_chilling_aftershock_of_a_brush_with_death	"It was April 8, 2003. I was in Baghdad, covering the war in Iraq. That day, Americans tanks started arriving in Baghdad. We were just a few journalists in the Palestine Hotel, and, as happens in war, the fighting began to approach outside our windows. Baghdad was covered in black smoke and oil. It smelled awful. We couldn't see a thing, but we knew what was happening. Of course, I was supposed to be writing an article, but that's how it always goes — you're supposed to be writing and something big happens. So I was in my room on the 16th floor, writing and looking out the window every now and then to see what was happening. Suddenly, there was a huge explosion. During the previous three weeks, there had been shelling with half-ton missiles, but this time, the shock — I felt it inside of me, and I thought, ""It's very close. It's very, very close."" So I went down to see what was happening. I went down to the 15th floor to take a look. And I saw people, journalists, screaming in the hallways. I walked into a room and realized that it had been hit by a missile. Someone had been wounded. There was a man near the window, a cameraman named Taras Protsyuk, lying face-down. Having worked in a hospital before, I wanted to help out. So I turned him over. And when I turned him over, I noticed that he was open from sternum to pubis, but I couldn't see anything, nothing at all. All I saw was a white, pearly, shiny spot that blinded me, and I didn't understand what was going on. Once the spot disappeared and I could see his wound, which was very serious, my buddies and I put a sheet underneath him, and we carried him onto an elevator that stopped at each of the 15 floors. We put him in a car that took him to the hospital. He died on the way to the hospital. The Spanish cameraman José Couso, who was on the 14th floor and also hit — because the shell had exploded between the two floors — died on the operating table. As soon as the car left, I went back. There was that article I was supposed to write — which I had to write. And so — I returned to the hotel lobby with my arms covered in blood, when one of the hotel gofers stopped me and asked me to pay the tax I hadn't paid for 10 days. I told him to get lost. And I said to myself: ""Clear your head, put it all aside. If you want to write, you need to put it all aside."" And that's what I did. I went upstairs, wrote my article and sent it off. Later, aside from the feeling of having lost my colleagues, something else was bothering me. I kept seeing that shiny, pearly spot, and I couldn't understand what it meant. And then, the war was over. Later, I thought: ""That's not possible. I can't just not know what happened."" Because it wasn't the first time, and it didn't only happen to me. I have seen things like that happen to others in my 20 to 35 years of reporting. I have seen things that had an effect on me too. For example, there was this man I knew in Lebanon, a 25-year-old veteran who had been fighting for five years — a real veteran — who we would follow everywhere. He would crawl in the dark with confidence — he was a great soldier, a true soldier — so we would follow him, knowing that we would be safe with him. And one day, as I was told — and I've seen him again since — he was back in the camp, playing cards, when someone came in next door, and discharged their weapon. As the gun went off, that blast, that one shot, made him duck quickly under the table, like a child. He was shaking, panicking. And since then, he has never been able to get up and fight. He ended up working as a croupier in a Beirut casino where I later found him, because he couldn't sleep, so it was quite a suitable job. So I thought to myself, ""What is this thing that can kill you without leaving any visible scars? How does that happen? What is this unknown thing?"" It was too common to be coincidental. So I started to investigate — that's all I know how to do. I started to investigate by looking through books, reaching out to psychiatrists, going to museums, libraries, etc. Finally, I discovered that some people knew about this — often military psychiatrists — and that what we were dealing with was called trauma. Americans call it PTSD or traumatic neurosis. It was something that existed, but that we never spoke about. So, this trauma — what is it? Well, it's an encounter with death. I don't know if you've ever had an experience with death — I'm not talking about dead bodies, or someone's grandfather lying in a hospital bed, or someone who got hit by a car. I'm talking about facing the void of death. And that is something no one is supposed to see. People used to say, ""Neither the sun, nor death can be looked at with a steady eye."" A human being should not have to face the void of death. But when that happens, it can remain invisible for a while — days, weeks, months, sometimes years. And then, at some point, it explodes, because it's something that has entered your brain — a sort of window between an image and your mind — that has penetrated your brain, staying there and taking up all the space inside. And there are people — men, women, who suddenly no longer sleep. And they experience horrible anxiety attacks — panic attacks, not just minor fears. They suddenly don't want to sleep, because when they do, they have the same nightmare every night. They see the same image every night. What type of image? For example, a soldier who enters a building and comes face to face with another soldier aiming at him. He looks at the gun, straight down the barrel. And this barrel suddenly becomes enormous, deformed. It becomes fluffy, swallowing everything. And he says — later he will say, ""I saw death. I saw myself dead, therefore I'm dead."" And from then on, he knows he is dead. It is not a perception — he is convinced that he is dead. In reality, someone came in, the guy left or didn't shoot, whatever, and he didn't actually get shot — but to him, he died in that moment. Or it can be the smell of a mass grave — I saw a lot of that in Rwanda. It can be the voice of a friend calling, and they're being slaughtered and there's nothing you can do. You hear that voice, and you wake up every night — for weeks, months — in a trance-like state, anxious and terrified, like a child. I have seen men cry — just like children — from seeing the same image. So having that image of horror in your brain, seeing the void of death — that analogue of horror which is hiding something — will completely take over. You cannot do anything, anything at all. You cannot work anymore, you cannot love anymore. You go home and don't recognize anyone. You don't even recognize yourself. You hide and don't leave the house, you lock yourself in, you become ill. I know people who placed small cans outside their house with coins inside, in case someone tried to get in. All of a sudden, you feel like you want to die or kill or hide or run away. You want to be loved, but you hate everyone. It's a feeling that seizes you entirely day in and day out, and you suffer tremendously. And no one understands. They say, ""There's nothing wrong with you. You seem fine, you have no injuries. You went to war, came back; you're fine."" These people suffer tremendously. Some commit suicide. After all, suicide is like updating your daily planner — I'm already dead, I might as well commit suicide. Plus, there is no more pain. Some commit suicide, others end up under the bridge, drinking. Everyone remembers that grandfather or uncle or neighbor who used to drink, never said a word, always in a bad mood, beat his wife and who would end up either sinking into alcoholism or dying. And why do we not talk about this? We don't talk about it because it's taboo. It's not like we don't have the words to express the void of death. But others don't want hear it. The first time I returned from an assignment, They said, ""Oh! He's back."" There was a fancy dinner — white tablecloth, candles, guests. ""Tell us everything!"" Which I did. After 20 minutes, people were giving me dirty looks, the hostess had her nose in the ashtray. It was horrible and I realized I ruined the whole evening. So I don't talk about it anymore. We're just not ready to listen. People say outright: ""Please, stop."" Is that a rare occurrence? No, it's extremely common. One third of the soldiers who died in Iraq — well, not ""died,"" let me re-phrase that — one third of the US soldiers who went to Iraq suffer from PTSD. In 1939, there were still 200,000 soldiers from the First World War that were being treated in British psychiatric hospitals. In Vietnam, 54,000 people died — Americans. In 1987, the US government identified 102,000 — twice as many — 102,000 veterans who died from committing suicide. Twice as many deaths by suicide than by combat in Vietnam. So you see, this relates to everything, not just modern warfare, but also ancient wars — you can read about it, the evidence is there. So why do we not talk about it? Why have we not talked about it? The problem is that if you don't talk about it, you're heading for disaster. The only way to heal — and the good news here is that this is treatable — think Munch's The Scream, Goya, etc. — it's indeed treatable. The only way to heal from this trauma, from this encounter with death that overwhelms, petrifies and kills you is to find a way to express it. People used to say, ""Language is the only thing that holds all of us together."" Without language, we're nothing. It's the thing that makes us human. In the face of such a horrible image — a wordless image of oblivion that obsesses us — the only way to cope with it is to put human words to it. Because these people feel excluded from humanity. No one wants to see them anymore and they don't want to see anyone. They feel dirty, defiled, ashamed. Someone said, ""Doctor, I don't use the subway anymore because I'm afraid people will see the horror in my eyes."" Another guy thought he had a terrible skin disease and spent six months with dermatologists, going from doctor to doctor. And then one day, they sent him to a psychiatrist. During his second session, he told the psychiatrist he had a terrible skin disease from head to toe. The psychiatrist asked, ""Why are you in this state?"" And the man said, ""Well, because I'm dead, so I must be rotting away."" So you see this is something that has a profound effect on people. In order to heal, we need to talk about it. The horror needs to be put into words — human words, so we can organize it and talk about it again. We have to look death in the face. And if we can do that, if we can talk about these things, then step by step, by working it out verbally, we can reclaim our place in humanity. And it is important. Silence kills us. So what does this mean? It means that after a trauma, without question, we lose our ""unbearable lightness of being,"" that sense of immortality that keeps us here — meaning, if we're here, we almost feel like we're immortal, which we're not, but if we didn't believe that, we'd say, ""What's the point of it all?"" But trauma survivors have lost that feeling of immortality. They've lost their lightness. But they have found something else. So this means that if we manage to look death in the face, and actually confront it, rather than keep quiet and hide, like some of the men or women I know did, such as Michael from Rwanda, Carole from Iraq, Philippe from the Congo and other people I know, like Sorj Chalandon, now a great writer, who gave up field assignments after a trauma. Five friends of mine committed suicide, they're the ones who did not survive the trauma. So if we can look death in the face, if we, mortal humans, human mortals, understand that we are human and mortal, mortal and human, if we can confront death and identify it once again as the most mysterious place of all mysterious places, since no one has ever seen it — if we can give it back this meaning, yes, we may die, survive and come back to life, but we'll come back stronger than before. Much stronger. Thank you. (Applause)"	在2003年的4月8日，我在巴格達，報道伊拉克戰爭。那一天，美軍的坦克開始抵達巴格達。我們就是幾個記者而已，住在巴勒斯坦飯店裏，然後，就像任何戰爭一樣，戰火開始蔓延到我們的窗外。巴格達被黑色的油煙籠罩，味道十分難聞。我們什麽都看不到，但卻知道發生了什麽。 當然，我當時應該在寫一篇文章，但事情往往是這樣的：當你正在寫作時，一些大事就會發生。所以當時我在16層的房間裏，邊寫東西邊時不時望向窗外，隨時看著外面的情況。突然，一聲巨大的爆炸聲響徹天空。在這之前的三週裏，曾有過半噸重的導彈炮擊，但這次，我深深地感受到了震驚，我想，“這次太近了。太近了，太近了。” 所以我跑下去看看情況。我下到了15樓想看一看。然後我看到很多人，記者在走廊裏尖叫。我走進了一個房間，才意識到它已經被一顆導彈擊中。有人受傷了。傷者在靠近窗戶的地方是個叫Taras Protsyuk的攝影師，他正臉朝下躺著。因為我曾經在醫院工作，我過去幫忙。所以我把他翻過身來，然後當我把他翻過來時，我發現他從胸骨到恥骨敞開了一個大口子但是我什麽都看不到，什麽都沒有。我能看到的只是一個白色的亮點，閃瞎了我的眼睛，我不明白到底發生了什麽。 當亮點消失後，我才看到他的傷口，傷勢非常嚴重，我的夥伴跟我一起把一條床單放在他身下，然後我們把他擡上了一個在15層停靠的電梯。我們把他放到車裏，往醫院開去。他就在去醫院的路上死了。因為爆炸發生在兩層之間，住在14層的西班牙攝影師José Couso也被擊中，然後在手術臺上去世了。車一走，我就回去了。還有一篇我要寫的文章，我必須要完成它。 所以—-我回到酒店大廳，胳膊上滿是鮮血，一個酒店的服務生擋住我，要我付我拖欠了10天稅金。我讓他走開。然後我自言自語道：“冷靜下來，別的都不要管。如果你想寫東西，你就要把這些事放在一邊。“我也是那樣做的。我上了樓，寫完報道然後發了出去。 過了一會兒，除了失去同事的傷痛，還有一些情緒困擾著我。我一直都能看到那個白色的亮點，我也不知道這意味著什麽。然後，戰爭結束了。 後來我想：“不可能，我不可能不知道是怎麽回事。“因為這不是第一次，而且不止我一個人這樣了。在我20到35年的報道生涯中，我見過別人發生了這種事。我自己也看到了一 些東西，對我產生了一定影響。例如，我在黎巴嫩認識的一個人，一個25歲的老兵，有5年的戰爭經驗，他是一個真正的老兵，我們到哪都喜歡跟著他。他能在黑暗中自信匍匐，是一個厲害的戰士，真正的戰士，所以我們願意跟著他，覺得跟著他就會安全。有一天，我得知—在那之後我才見到他—他當時正在營地後面打牌，突然隔壁闖進來幾個人，朝他們開槍。開槍後，那突如其來的爆炸聲和亮光，讓他迅速躲到桌子下面，就像一個孩子一樣。他全身發抖，陷入了恐慌中。然後從那以後，他再也無法站起來戰鬥了。他最後在一個貝魯特賭場做了一個賭臺管理人，我也是在那找到他的。因為他睡不著覺，所以這個賭場的工作還挺適合他的。 那我就思考了一個問題：什麽東西可以殺了你，並且不留下一道可見的傷疤？這是怎麽回事？這個未知的東西是什麽？這種現象太常見了，不是什麽巧合。 所以我開始著手調查—那是我唯一知道怎麽做的事情。我的調查手段包括查閱書籍，與心理醫生溝通，去博物館和圖書館等。最終，我發現有些人是了解這種現象的—經常是些軍隊上的心理醫生—我們面對的就是一種叫做創傷的東西。美國人稱它為創傷後應激障礙，或創傷性神經癥。這種東西的確是存在的，但我們卻從未提起過。 那麽，這個創傷，是什麽呢？它是與死亡的相遇。我不知道你們是否曾經有過面對死亡的經歷，我不是說屍體，不是說某人的祖父躺在醫院的病床上，也不是說誰被車撞了。我說的是面對死亡的空間。而且那應該是一種大家都看不到的東西。人們經常說，“沒人能盯著太陽和死亡看。“一個人不應該面對死亡的空間。 但一旦發生了，它就會不著痕跡的待上一段時間—也許是幾天，幾週，幾個月，有時甚至幾年。然後，在某一個時間點，它會爆發，因為它已經進入了你的大腦中—猶如一扇從影像通往你精神的窗戶—已經滲透了妳的大腦，留在裏面並占據了所有的空間。然後有的人—男人也好，女人也好，突然就再也無法入睡了。接下來他們會變得極其憂慮—極其恐慌，還不僅僅是輕微的害怕。他們突然就不想睡覺，因為如果他們睡覺，就會每晚做同樣的噩夢。每晚都會看到同樣的畫面。什麽樣的畫面呢？例如，一個士兵走進一棟樓，然後面對用槍指著他的另一位士兵。他看著槍，直直地盯著槍筒。然後槍筒突然就變大了，走形了。開始四處擴撒，吞噬著周圍的一切。然後他說—或來他會說，“我看到了死亡。我看見自己死了，所以我應該是死了。”所以從那之後，他認為自己死了。這不是一種感知—他確信自己是死了。現實情況是，有人闖進來了，然後離開了或者是根本沒開槍，等等，而且他確實沒有中彈—但對於他來說，那一刻的他已經死了。那個畫面或許是一片大墓地—我在盧旺達就看到了很多。或許是一聲朋友的呼喚，朋友被殺害了，而你卻什麽也做不了。你聽到那個聲音，然後你每晚會被驚醒—連續好幾週，好幾月—你會處於一種恍惚的狀態，焦慮，恐懼，像個孩子一樣。我見過男人哭—哭得就像個孩子—就是因為反復看到那些影像。 因此腦子裏有那些恐怖的畫面，看到死亡的空間—一種恐怖的畫面隱藏著某些東西—將會完完全全控制你。你什麽都做不了。你不能再去工作，不能再去愛任何人。你回到家卻一個人也認不出。你甚至都不認不出自己。你把自己藏起來不願走出屋子半步，你把自己鎖起來，開始生病。我知道有的人把易拉罐裝滿硬幣放在屋外，以防有人進入。突然間，你想要去死，或去殺人，去藏起來或逃跑。你渴望被愛，但同時你憎恨所有人。這種感覺無時無刻都在侵蝕著你，你遭受著巨大的痛苦。而且沒人會理解你。別人會說，“你沒有任何事情。你看起來很好啊，也沒有受傷。你去打仗了，回來了；你現在很好。”這些人卻遭受著巨大的痛苦。有些人自殺了。畢竟，自殺就像是更新一下你的日程表—我反正已經死了，自殺也沒什麽大不了。另外，也不會有更多的痛苦了。有人自殺了，也有人終日在橋洞裏，酗酒。每個人都記得自己的祖父，或者是叔叔，還是鄰居，經常喝酒，一句話也不說，總是狀態很糟糕，毆打妻子，最後要麼就被酒精淹沒要麽就幹脆死了。 為什麽我們不談論這種事呢？我們不談是因為這是禁忌。這不像是我們沒有語言去描繪死亡空間。而是別人根本不想聽。我第一次出任務回來時，別人說，“哦，他回來了！”然後一起共進隆重的晚餐—有白色的桌布、蠟燭，和賓客。“快跟我們說說都發生了什麽！”我這樣做了。20分鐘後，人們臉色都不好看。女主人的臉都要埋到煙灰缸裏了。場面很可怕，然後我意識到我毀了一個美好的晚上。所以我以後再也不要談了。我們只是沒有做好聆聽的準備。人們會直截了當的說：“請不要再說了。” 這是一個偶爾發生的事嗎？不，這絕對是普遍存在的。三分之一的士兵在伊拉克死亡—好，不是”死了“，讓我換個說法—三分之壹的士兵，去了伊拉克就會經歷創傷後應激障礙。1939年，仍有20萬參加過一戰的士兵在英國的精神病醫院接受治療。在越南，五萬四千人死亡—都是美國人。1987年，美國政府確認有十萬兩千名—幾乎是在越南死亡人數的兩倍—十萬兩千名老兵自殺身亡。自殺身亡的人數是越南戰死人數的兩倍。因此大家看到，這關乎著所有的一切，不僅是現代戰爭，以前的戰爭同樣如此—你可以查閱相關資料，證據就明擺在那裏。那麽我們為什麽不談論它呢？我們為什麽從沒有談論過呢？問題在於如果你不想談論這個話題，你會走向災難。 治愈的唯一方法—好消息是這是可以治療的—想一想蒙克的吶喊、戈雅，等等—這的確是可以治療的。從這種創傷中治愈的唯一方法，不再讓這種與死亡相遇的經歷淹沒你，毀掉你的唯一方法，就是想辦法去表達出來。 人們常說，“語言是唯一能把我們維繫在一起的東西”離開語言，我們什麽也不是。是語言是我們成為人類。面對如此可怕的影像—一個困擾著我們的無可名狀的影像—唯一對付它的方法就是把它變成人類的語言。因為這些人感覺自己失去了人性。沒有人想見到他們，他們也不想見到任何人。他們覺得自己骯臟，受到了玷汙，並為此感到可恥。有人說：“醫生，我再也沒有坐地鐵了因為我怕別人看到我眼中的恐懼。”還有一個人認為他得了一種可怕的皮膚病花了整整六個月去看各種皮膚科醫生。後來，他們把這個人送到了心理醫生那。在第二個療程的時候，他告訴心理醫生他得了可怕的皮膚病，從頭到腳都是。醫生問：“你為什麽會這樣認為？”然後這個人回答：“因為我已經死了，我的身體肯定腐爛了。” 所以你看這就是能給人留下深刻影響的東西。想要治愈，我們需要去談論它。要把恐懼用語言表達出來—人類的語言，所以我們能重新整理並再次談論它。我們必須要直面死亡。如果我們能做到，如果我們能談論這些事情，然後逐漸的，通過用語言表達的方法，我們能夠重新找回人性。而且這很重要。沈默可以殺掉我們。 那這意味著什麽呢？這意味著在受到創傷後，毫無疑問，我們失去了“生命不能承受之輕”，就是那種讓我們存在的不朽感—就是說，如果我們存在，我們差不多感覺自己是不朽的，當然我們不是，但是如果我們不相信，那這一切還有什麽意義呢？但是受到創傷的人會感覺不到這種不朽感。他們已經失去了這個信念。但同時他們也找到了其他的東西。所以這意味著如果我們能直面死亡，實實在在的面對它，而不是保持沈默或躲藏，像我知道的有些男人或女人一樣，例如盧旺達的 Michael，伊拉克的Carole，剛果的Philippe以及其他我認識的人，像Sorj Chalandon，現在是一位著名作家，他在一次創傷後不再出外勤。我有五個朋友自殺了，他們就是沒能在創傷中存活下來的人。 所以如果我們能直面死亡，如果我們肉體凡身的人類，能明白我們是人類，我們是終有一死的，如果我們能面對死亡並再次將它看作是所有神秘地方中最最神秘的寸土，因為沒有人見過—如果我們能還原死亡的意義，是的，我們會死，就能存活下來回歸生命，但我們回來時要比以前更堅強，無比堅強。 謝謝大家。 觀眾鼓掌。
