Talk	en	zh-tw
jeff_bezos_on_the_next_web_innovation	"When you think about resilience and technology it's actually much easier. You're going to see some other speakers today, I already know, who are going to talk about breaking-bones stuff, and, of course, with technology it never is. So it's very easy, comparatively speaking, to be resilient. I think that, if we look at what happened on the Internet, with such an incredible last half a dozen years, that it's hard to even get the right analogy for it. A lot of how we decide, how we're supposed to react to things and what we're supposed to expect about the future depends on how we bucket things and how we categorize them. And so I think the tempting analogy for the boom-bust that we just went through with the Internet is a gold rush. It's easy to think of this analogy as very different from some of the other things you might pick. For one thing, both were very real. In 1849, in that Gold Rush, they took over $700 million worth of gold out of California. It was very real. The Internet was also very real. This is a real way for humans to communicate with each other. It's a big deal. Huge boom. Huge boom. Huge bust. Huge bust. You keep going, and both things are lots of hype. I don't have to remind you of all the hype that was involved with the Internet — like GetRich.com. But you had the same thing with the Gold Rush. ""Gold. Gold. Gold."" Sixty-eight rich men on the Steamer Portland. Stacks of yellow metal. Some have 5,000. Many have more. A few bring out 100,000 dollars each. People would get very excited about this when they read these articles. ""The Eldorado of the United States of America: the discovery of inexhaustible gold mines in California."" And the parallels between the Gold Rush and the Internet Rush continue very strongly. So many people left what they were doing. And what would happen is — and the Gold Rush went on for years. People on the East Coast in 1849, when they first started to get the news, they thought, ""Ah, this isn't real."" But they keep hearing about people getting rich, and then in 1850 they still hear that. And they think it's not real. By about 1852, they're thinking, ""Am I the stupidest person on Earth by not rushing to California?"" And they start to decide they are. These are community affairs, by the way. Local communities on the East Coast would get together and whole teams of 10, 20 people would caravan across the United States, and they would form companies. These were typically not solitary efforts. But no matter what, if you were a lawyer or a banker, people dropped what they were doing, no matter what skill set they had, to go pan for gold. This guy on the left, Dr. Richard Beverley Cole, he lived in Philadelphia and he took the Panama route. They would take a ship down to Panama, across the isthmus, and then take another ship north. This guy, Dr. Toland, went by covered wagon to California. This has its parallels, too. Doctors leaving their practices. These are both very successful — a physician in one case, a surgeon in the other. Same thing happened on the Internet. You get DrKoop.com. (Laughter) In the Gold Rush, people literally jumped ship. The San Francisco harbor was clogged with 600 ships at the peak because the ships would get there and the crews would abandon to go search for gold. So there were literally 600 captains and 600 ships. They turned the ships into hotels, because they couldn't sail them anywhere. You had dotcom fever. And you had gold fever. And you saw some of the excesses that the dotcom fever created and the same thing happened. The fort in San Francisco at the time had about 1,300 soldiers. Half of them deserted to go look for gold. And they wouldn't let the other half out to go look for the first half because they were afraid they wouldn't come back. (Laughter) And one of the soldiers wrote home, and this is the sentence that he put: ""The struggle between right and six dollars a month and wrong and 75 dollars a day is a rather severe one."" They had bad burn rate in the Gold Rush. A very bad burn rate. This is actually from the Klondike Gold Rush. This is the White Pass Trail. They loaded up their mules and their horses. And they didn't plan right. And they didn't know how far they would really have to go, and they overloaded the horses with hundreds and hundreds of pounds of stuff. In fact it was so bad that most of the horses died before they could get where they were going. It got renamed the ""Dead Horse Trail."" And the Canadian Minister of the Interior wrote this at the time: ""Thousands of pack horses lie dead along the way, sometimes in bunches under the cliffs, with pack saddles and packs where they've fallen from the rock above, sometimes in tangled masses, filling the mud holes and furnishing the only footing for our poor pack animals on the march, often, I regret to say, exhausted, but still alive, a fact we were unaware of, until after the miserable wretches turned beneath the hooves of our cavalcade. The eyeless sockets of the pack animals everywhere account for the myriads of ravens along the road. The inhumanity which this trail has been witness to, the heartbreak and suffering which so many have undergone, cannot be imagined. They certainly cannot be described."" And you know, without the smell that would have accompanied that, we had the same thing on the Internet: very bad burn rate calculations. I'll just play one of these and you'll remember it. This is a commercial that was played on the Super Bowl in the year 2000. (Video): Bride #1: You said you had a large selection of invitations. Clerk: But we do. Bride #2: Then why does she have my invitation? Announcer: What may be a little thing to some ... Bride #3: You are mine, little man. Announcer: Could be a really big deal to you. Husband #1: Is that your wife? Husband #2: Not for another 15 minutes. Announcer: After all, it's your special day. OurBeginning.com. Life's an event. Announce it to the world. Jeff Bezos: It's very difficult to figure out what that ad is for. (Laughter) But they spent three and a half million dollars in the 2000 Super Bowl to air that ad, even though, at the time, they only had a million dollars in annual revenue. Now, here's where our analogy with the Gold Rush starts to diverge, and I think rather severely. And that is, in a gold rush, when it's over, it's over. Here's this guy: ""There are many men in Dawson at the present time who feel keenly disappointed. They've come thousands of miles on a perilous trip, risked life, health and property, spent months of the most arduous labor a man can perform and at length with expectations raised to the highest pitch have reached the coveted goal only to discover the fact that there is nothing here for them."" And that was, of course, the very common story. Because when you take out that last piece of gold — and they did incredibly quickly. I mean, if you look at the 1849 Gold Rush — the entire American river region, within two years — every stone had been turned. And after that, only big companies who used more sophisticated mining technologies started to take gold out of there. So there's a much better analogy that allows you to be incredibly optimistic and that analogy is the electric industry. And there are a lot of similarities between the Internet and the electric industry. With the electric industry you actually have to — one of them is that they're both sort of thin, horizontal, enabling layers that go across lots of different industries. It's not a specific thing. But electricity is also very, very broad, so you have to sort of narrow it down. You know, it can be used as an incredible means of transmitting power. It's an incredible means of coordinating, in a very fine-grained way, information flows. There's a bunch of things that are interesting about electricity. And the part of the electric revolution that I want to focus on is sort of the golden age of appliances. The killer app that got the world ready for appliances was the light bulb. So the light bulb is what wired the world. And they weren't thinking about appliances when they wired the world. They were really thinking about — they weren't putting electricity into the home; they were putting lighting into the home. And, but it really — it got the electricity. It took a long time. This was a huge — as you would expect — a huge capital build out. All the streets had to be torn up. This is work going on down in lower Manhattan where they built some of the first electric power generating stations. And they're tearing up all the streets. The Edison Electric Company, which became Edison General Electric, which became General Electric, paid for all of this digging up of the streets. It was incredibly expensive. But that is not the — and that's not the part that's really most similar to the Web. Because, remember, the Web got to stand on top of all this heavy infrastructure that had been put in place because of the long-distance phone network. So all of the cabling and all of the heavy infrastructure — I'm going back now to, sort of, the explosive part of the Web in 1994, when it was growing 2,300 percent a year. How could it grow at 2,300 percent a year in 1994 when people weren't really investing in the Web? Well, it was because that heavy infrastructure had already been laid down. So the light bulb laid down the heavy infrastructure, and then home appliances started coming into being. And this was huge. The first one was the electric fan — this was the 1890 electric fan. And the appliances, the golden age of appliances really lasted — it depends how you want to measure it — but it's anywhere from 40 to 60 years. It goes on a long time. It starts about 1890. And the electric fan was a big success. The electric iron, also very big. By the way, this is the beginning of the asbestos lawsuit. (Laughter) There's asbestos under that handle there. This is the first vacuum cleaner, the 1905 Skinner Vacuum, from the Hoover Company. And this one weighed 92 pounds and took two people to operate and cost a quarter of a car. So it wasn't a big seller. This was truly, truly an early-adopter product — (Laughter) the 1905 Skinner Vacuum. But three years later, by 1908, it weighed 40 pounds. Now, not all these things were highly successful. (Laughter) This is the electric tie press, which never really did catch on. People, I guess, decided that they would not wrinkle their ties. These never really caught on either: the electric shoe warmer and drier. Never a big seller. This came in, like, six different colors. (Laughter) I don't know why. But I thought, you know, sometimes it's just not the right time for an invention; maybe it's time to give this one another shot. So I thought we could build a Super Bowl ad for this. We'd need the right partner. And I thought that really — (Laughter) I thought that would really work, to give that another shot. Now, the toaster was huge because they used to make toast on open fires, and it took a lot of time and attention. I want to point out one thing. This is — you guys know what this is. They hadn't invented the electric socket yet. So this was — remember, they didn't wire the houses for electricity. They wired them for lighting. So your — your appliances would plug in. They would — each room typically had a light bulb socket at the top. And you'd plug it in there. In fact, if you've seen the Carousel of Progress at Disney World, you've seen this. Here are the cables coming up into this light fixture. All the appliances plug in there. And you would just unscrew your light bulb if you wanted to plug in an appliance. The next thing that really was a big, big deal was the washing machine. Now, this was an object of much envy and lust. Everybody wanted one of these electric washing machines. On the left-hand side, this was the soapy water. And there's a rotor there — that this motor is spinning. And it would clean your clothes. This is the clean rinse-water. So you'd take the clothes out of here, put them in here, and then you'd run the clothes through this electric wringer. And this was a big deal. You'd keep this on your porch. It was a little bit messy and kind of a pain. And you'd run a long cord into the house where you could screw it into your light socket. (Laughter) And that's actually kind of an important point in my presentation, because they hadn't invented the off switch. That was to come much later — the off switch on appliances — because it didn't make any sense. I mean, you didn't want this thing clogging up a light socket. So you know, when you were done with it, you unscrewed it. That's what you did. You didn't turn it off. And as I said before, they hadn't invented the electric outlet either, so the washing machine was a particularly dangerous device. And there are — when you research this, there are gruesome descriptions of people getting their hair and clothes caught in these devices. And they couldn't yank the cord out because it was screwed into a light socket inside the house. (Laughter) And there was no off switch, so it wasn't very good. And you might think that that was incredibly stupid of our ancestors to be plugging things into a light socket like this. But, you know, before I get too far into condemning our ancestors, I thought I'd show you: this is my conference room. This is a total kludge, if you ask me. First of all, this got installed upside down. This light socket — (Laughter) and so the cord keeps falling out, so I taped it in. (Laughter) This is supposed — don't even get me started. But that's not the worst one. This is what it looks like under my desk. I took this picture just two days ago. So we really haven't progressed that much since 1908. (Laughter) It's a total, total mess. And, you know, we think it's getting better, but have you tried to install 802.11 yourself? (Laughter) I challenge you to try. It's very hard. I know Ph.D.s in Computer Science — this process has brought them to tears, absolute tears. (Laughter) And that's assuming you already have DSL in your house. Try to get DSL installed in your house. The engineers who do it everyday can't do it. They have to — typically, they come three times. And one friend of mine was telling me a story: not only did they get there and have to wait, but then the engineers, when they finally did get there, for the third time, they had to call somebody. And they were really happy that the guy had a speakerphone because then they had to wait on hold for an hour to talk to somebody to give them an access code after they got there. So we're not — we're pretty kludge-y ourselves. By the way, DSL is a kludge. I mean, this is a twisted pair of copper that was never designed for the purpose it's being put to — you know it's the whole thing — we're very, very primitive. And that's kind of the point. Because, you know, resilience — if you think of it in terms of the Gold Rush, then you'd be pretty depressed right now because the last nugget of gold would be gone. But the good thing is, with innovation, there isn't a last nugget. Every new thing creates two new questions and two new opportunities. And if you believe that, then you believe that where we are — this is what I think — I believe that where we are with the incredible kludge — and I haven't even talked about user interfaces on the Web — but there's so much kludge, so much terrible stuff — we are at the 1908 Hurley washing machine stage with the Internet. That's where we are. We don't get our hair caught in it, but that's the level of primitiveness of where we are. We're in 1908. And if you believe that, then stuff like this doesn't bother you. This is 1996: ""All the negatives add up to making the online experience not worth the trouble."" 1998: ""Amazon.toast."" In 1999: ""Amazon.bomb."" My mom hates this picture. (Laughter) She — but you know, if you really do believe that it's the very, very beginning, if you believe it's the 1908 Hurley washing machine, then you're incredibly optimistic. And I do think that that's where we are. And I do think there's more innovation ahead of us than there is behind us. And in 1917, Sears — I want to get this exactly right. This was the advertisement that they ran in 1917. It says: ""Use your electricity for more than light."" And I think that's where we are. We're very, very early. Thank you very much."	"把復原能力跟科技連想在一起是件比較容易的事。據我所知，今天會有其他講師談一些傷筋動骨的東西不過這在科技界是不會發生的。所以相對來說，科技是很容易具有復原能力的。如果回顧網際網路上發生的事 —以過去六年來的驚人發展的確很難去找到可以對比的例子。我們如何做決定，如何對事情做出適當的反應跟我們對未來的展望，很多時候取決於我們對事物分門別類的方式。 所以從我們剛剛經歷這大起大落的網際網路中我想到一個不盡相同的比喻：淘金熱。相較其他可能的選擇這個比喻是與眾不同的。其一，兩者都是真實發生的。在1849年的淘金熱中，人們從加州取走了總值七億美元的黃金，這是實在的事。網際網路也是實實在在的變成了人們溝通的方式這是一件重大的事。大起、大起、大落、大落再比較下去，兩者都是狂熱不需要我再提醒你有多狂熱吧這是網路上的 — 像是 GetRich.com(致富網) 淘金狂熱裡也找得到 ""黃金！黃金！黃金！""波特蘭的小城出了68位富人！一堆堆的黃色金屬！有人淘到五千美元，更多的還比比皆是...有人賺到十萬美金。當人們讀到這些文章時馬上熱血沸騰。美國的黃金城。在加州發現採之不盡的金礦？淘金熱跟網路熱兩者可相提併論。接著人們離開現有的工作淘金熱持續了幾年，接著 1849年美國東岸的人一開始聽到這消息時他們想 ""啊，這是騙人的啦。""可是陸續傳來有人一夜致富的消息到一年後1850，他們還是不相信直到1852年，他們想 ""難道我是最蠢的人嗎？為何不去加州淘金？"" 接著他們動了起來順便提一下，這些是社區事務東岸的地方社區們聚在一起，然後一、二十個人一起組團搭車橫跨美國而且他們也會組成公司。這些都不是單獨行動，而且不管你之前是律師或銀行家，人們放棄原有工作不論他們原有的技能為何，全部都淘金去了。 左邊這傢伙是可爾醫師當時他住在費城，搭船下到巴拿馬橫越過巴拿馬地峽然後再搭船往北。這位是圖蘭醫師，他搭貨運馬車到加州。醫師們相繼離開他們的病人這兩個當時都是非常成功的 — 一位是內科另一位是外科醫師。同樣的事情也發生在網路上，DrKoop.com (醫酷網) (笑聲) 在淘金熱裡，人們常 ""跳船""在舊金山港那時曾擠滿了600條船因為人們把船開到那裡以後所有船員都棄船淘金去了。所以六百條船上只剩六百個船長。他們把船變成了旅館，因為沒船員也開不了船。""網路熱"" 相對於 ""淘金熱""更有甚者網路熱創造了同樣的事蹟當時舊金山防區有1300位士兵有半數跑去找金子了當局不讓剩下的一半去找失蹤的士兵因為怕像肉包子打狗(一去不回) (笑聲) 其中有個士兵在家書裡寫道:""一個月賺6塊錢的「對」相較於一天進帳75塊的「錯」，真是很大的掙扎啊""淘金熱那時燒錢也很快這相片是當時克朗岱克淘金熱裡的懷特通道他們的馬和驢載滿了東西不過他們並沒有計劃好而且不曉得路途有多遠所以馬上面超載了上百公斤的東西以至於大部份的馬在沒到目的地就都過勞死了因此後來這路也被叫做 ""死馬通道"" 當時加拿大的內政部記載：""數以千計的馬在途中死去，有時成堆的在懸崖下，身旁可見馬鞍與跟它們一起從山上掉落的包裹，有時扭曲的屍身，填補了泥坑為路上同樣可憐的貨運動物們鋪路，經常，我不情願說，很累，但是還活著，直到這些可憐的馬蹄倒下我們才意識到的一個事實一路上數不清無眼白骨的動物屍骸這路上見證到的人性泯滅心碎和痛苦到讓很多人無法想像也無法用言語來形容。"" 同樣的除了難聞的氣味之外網路熱裡有同樣的：超高的燒錢率。我接下來要播放其中一個所以你們會有印象這是2000年超級盃中的一個廣告片 (影片):新娘#1: 你不是說你們有很多不同種的邀請卡嗎？ 店員: 是啊新娘#2: 那為什麼她的跟我一樣?旁白: 別人看起來的一件小事... 新娘#3: 你給我看好了.旁白: 對你來說可能是件大事。新郎#1: 那是你太太嗎？新郎#2: 15分鐘以後才是. 旁白: 重要的是, 今天是你特別的日子。OurBeginning.com (我們的開始.com) 結婚比命重, 向世界公佈吧. 傑夫：很難看出來這在廣告些什麼？ (笑聲) 但是他們花了三百五十萬美金在2000年的超級盃播放這廣告片即使他們當時一年只有一百萬的營收我們開始來談與淘金熱這個類比不同的地方我認為是很大的分別就是在淘金熱裡，結束就結束了。這是一個傢伙寫的: ""在達森這個地方，有很多人感到失望與落空他們冒了生命、健康與財產的風險行了數千里路辛辛苦苦的花了幾個月的勞力與很高很高的期待結果到頭來發現這裡什麼都沒有。"" 當然這種故事在那時候很普遍因為當你把最後一塊金子取走時...如果你回顧1849年的淘金熱，這事發生得很快整個美國河流區在兩年之內每塊石頭都被翻過了而在那之後只有一些大公司使用了比較複雜的開採技術才開始採到黃金。接著另一個對比會讓我們感到無比樂觀就是電力產業網際網路與電力產業之間有很多相似的地方其中之一是兩者都算是薄的、水平的、可以啟動跨越不同產業的層面。它不只是單一個東西。 但是電力也是非常非常廣義的，所以你要把範圍縮小。它可以指轉移電力它也是代表一種協調以一種非常精細的資訊流方式。電有很多有趣的事情我特別要大家注意的是家電的黄金時代讓世界進入家電時代的殺手級應用是燈泡所以說是燈炮連接了世界當時的人拉線連世界並沒有想到家電他們真正想的並不是讓每個家裡有電他們想的是讓家裡有燈光到後來花了很長的時間才轉移焦點到電。 你可以想像當時這是件大事，巨大的資金投入所有的路都被翻了起來這相片是當時曼哈頓下城區的施工情況他們在蓋第一個發電站他們把所有的街道拆了愛廸生電力公司，後來變成愛廸生通用電力，然後變成通用電力(GE)公司他們支付所有挖路的費用，那時是非常昴貴的。但這不是與網站最像的地方請記住，網站已經站在所有長途電話網站所建立的厚實的基礎之上了。因此所有拉線跟重大的基礎建設我要回到1994年的網路暴發當它一年成長 2300%它怎麼可能在1994年人們都還沒有真正投資在網路時成長2300%？那是因為重大基礎建設所已經投下的。 所以燈泡打下了重大的基礎建設然後家電開始變成主流。那是很大的事，首先是電扇 —這是 1890 年的電扇而家電的黄金時期持續了 —要看你怎麼去估算它 —大概是 40 到 60 年，這持續了一段很長的時間。從 1890 年開始，電扇是個大成功。電熨斗也是大成功。順道一提，這是石棉訴訟的開始。 (笑聲) 這手把下面有塊石棉。這是第一個吸塵器，1905年胡佛公司出產的這個吸塵器重達41.73公斤要兩個人才能運作，而且價錢是一台車的四分之一所以那時賣得不好這是真的早期試用者的產品(笑聲)這 1905 ""使金美"" 吸塵器但是三年後，1908年，它的重量下到18公斤。這些東西並不是每一樣都很成功。 (笑聲) 這是領帶電熨斗，它也是失敗的產品。我猜大部份的人覺得領帶應該不會皺吧。這些也都失敗了:這是烘鞋電把，也是沒有大賣它有六種不同顏色的款式 (笑聲) 我也不知道為什麼，不過有時候可能發明的時間不對再試一下也許會成也說不定。如果我們來做個超級盃廣告再找個贊助商 —(笑聲)這次成功的機率就大不同了吧。烤吐司機當時是大發明因為在那之前要用火來烤要花很多時間去顧我要給你們看這個東西，你們知道這是什麼吧。那時還沒發明電插座記得嗎，他們那時拉線到房子不是為了電而是為了燈，所以你的電器要接到每個房間天花板上的燈泡插座你就把電器插到那插座上。 如果曾去過廸士尼世界神奇樂園裡的 Carousel of Progress你會看到所有的電線是接到燈座上的。你要先把燈泡轉下來再插上電器。接著洗衣機算是很大很大的事情。這東西才令大家趨之若鶩每個人都想要一台電動洗衣機。左手邊是肥皂水這裡有個轉輪 — 這是旋轉馬達。這東西會洗你的衣服。這是清水區，你要把衣服拿到這裡然後你讓衣服通過這個電動圈圈。在當時這是很重大的。因為它有點髒所以這東西通常會放在房子外的騎樓，然後麻煩的是你要接一條很長的電線到房子裡面特別是轉到燈泡插座上。 (笑聲) 事實上，這裡有一個重要的點因為那時""開關""還沒有發明直到過了一陣子之後 — 電器上的 ""關"" 才出現因為那時不太合常理我是說，那時候你如果不用電器的話把插座轉下來就好了，沒必要擠一堆在燈座上。所以沒有所謂 ""開/關"" 的需要。我之前也說過，那時還沒有發明電插座所以洗衣機是很危險的設備像是 — 如果你研究一下你可以找到一些令人驚心動魄的陳述有人的頭髮跟衣服被捲到機器裡面然後他們沒辦法把電拔掉因為插頭是轉到房子裡燈炮的插座上。 (笑聲)所以關不掉是個令人頭大的問題你可能會想把電插在燈座上面我們的祖先們是不是太笨了。不過，在我為我們的祖先辯解之前，我想讓大家看看: 這是我的會議室。如果你問我的話，這真是亂弄。首先，這個裝得上下顛倒了，這個燈炮插座 —(笑聲)插頭一直掉下來，所以我用膠帶貼著它。 (笑聲) 別讓我開始，這還不是最糟的這是我桌子底下的樣子我兩天前才照的相片。所以你可以看到1908年到現在沒進步多少。 (笑聲) 糟透了。我們想事情可能越來越好，可是你們有人試過自己裝802.11網路嗎？ (笑聲) 喜歡挑戰的人可以試一下，很難。我認識幾個專攻電腦的博士生 —這個過程搞得他們真的欲哭無淚。而且這還是假設你已經家裡有DSL了。試著在家裡裝 DSL。這些每天做的工程師也裝不起來他們要來家裡三次我的一個朋友跟我講他的故事不止要先等終於等到工程師三度光臨以後他們還要打電話找人他們還很高興那裡有免持聽筒的電話因為他們要等上...足足一個小時才能拿到他們的存取碼。所以我們自己也是很雜牌拼湊的啦。 我認為，DSL像是個雜牌。這電話用的雙絞銅線不是設計用來傳輸資料的。因此這整件事情我們還在很早的草創期因為回復力，如果你想到的是淘金熱的比喻，那你現在會很沮喪因為最後一塊金子已經沒了。好處是，有了創新就無所謂最後一塊金。每個新的東西創造出兩個新問題與兩個新機會。 如果你相信那個，你就會相信我們今天的處境是 —我認為: 我相信我們今天的雜亂 —我還沒談到網路上的使用者界面呢然而因為這些雜亂跟可怕的東西，網際網路就像是在1908年洗衣機的階段這就是我們的所在，我們不怕頭髮被捲進去，但是這混亂不明的時期我們在1908。 如果你相信的話，像這樣的東西不會對你造成困擾。這是1996:""所有負面的麻煩加起來讓網路經驗變得不值一試""1998: ""亞馬遜.乾杯"" 1999: ""亞馬遜.炸彈""我媽很痛恨這張照片 (笑聲) 如果你真正相信這只是開頭如果你相信這是1908年的洗衣機器那你會無比的樂觀。而且我認為那是我們現今所在的地方。而且我想在我們前面的創新多過於我們已經創過的。1917年喜而思電器城這是1917年他們做的廣告上面說: ""多用電而不只是燈。""而我想這是我們現在所在的是非常非常早的階段。謝謝您們。"
