Talk	en	zh-tw
jeff_skoll_makes_movies_that_make_change	"I've actually been waiting by the phone for a call from TED for years. And in fact, in 2000, I was ready to talk about eBay, but no call. In 2003, I was ready to do a talk about the Skoll Foundation and social entrepreneurship. No call. In 2004, I started Participant Productions and we had a really good first year, and no call. And finally, I get a call last year, and then I have to go up after J.J. Abrams. (Laughter) You've got a cruel sense of humor, TED. (Laughter) When I first moved to Hollywood from Silicon Valley, I had some misgivings. But I found that there were some advantages to being in Hollywood. (Laughter) And, in fact, some advantages to owning your own media company. And I also found that Hollywood and Silicon Valley have a lot more in common than I would have dreamed. Hollywood has its sex symbols, and the Valley has its sex symbols. (Laughter) Hollywood has its rivalries, and the Valley has its rivalries. Hollywood gathers around power tables, and the Valley gathers around power tables. So it turned out there was a lot more in common than I would have dreamed. But I'm actually here today to tell a story. And part of it is a personal story. When Chris invited me to speak, he said, people think of you as a bit of an enigma, and they want to know what drives you a bit. And what really drives me is a vision of the future that I think we all share. It's a world of peace and prosperity and sustainability. And when we heard a lot of the presentations over the last couple of days, Ed Wilson and the pictures of James Nachtwey, I think we all realized how far we have to go to get to this new version of humanity that I like to call ""Humanity 2.0."" And it's also something that resides in each of us, to close what I think are the two big calamities in the world today. One is the gap in opportunity — this gap that President Clinton last night called uneven, unfair and unsustainable — and, out of that, comes poverty and illiteracy and disease and all these evils that we see around us. But perhaps the other, bigger gap is what we call the hope gap. And someone, at some point, came up with this very bad idea that an ordinary individual couldn't make a difference in the world. And I think that's just a horrible thing. And so chapter one really begins today, with all of us, because within each of us is the power to equal those opportunity gaps and to close the hope gaps. And if the men and women of TED can't make a difference in the world, I don't know who can. And for me, a lot of this started when I was younger and my family used to go camping in upstate New York. And there really wasn't much to do there for the summer, except get beaten up by my sister or read books. And so I used to read authors like James Michener and James Clavell and Ayn Rand. And their stories made the world seem a very small and interconnected place. And it struck me that if I could write stories that were about this world as being small and interconnected, that maybe I could get people interested in the issues that affected us all, and maybe engage them to make a difference. I didn't think that was necessarily the best way to make a living, so I decided to go on a path to become financially independent, so I could write these stories as quickly as I could. I then had a bit of a wake-up call when I was 14. And my dad came home one day and announced that he had cancer, and it looked pretty bad. And what he said was, he wasn't so much afraid that he might die, but that he hadn't done the things that he wanted to with his life. And knock on wood, he's still alive today, many years later. But for a young man that made a real impression on me, that one never knows how much time one really has. So I set out in a hurry. I studied engineering. I started a couple of businesses that I thought would be the ticket to financial freedom. One of those businesses was a computer rental business called Micros on the Move, which is very well named, because people kept stealing the computers. (Laughter) So I figured I needed to learn a little bit more about business, so I went to Stanford Business School and studied there. And while I was there, I made friends with a fellow named Pierre Omidyar, who is here today. And Pierre, I apologize for this. This is a photo from the old days. And just after I'd graduated, Pierre came to me with this idea to help people buy and sell things online with each other. And with the wisdom of my Stanford degree, I said, ""Pierre, what a stupid idea."" (Laughter) And needless to say, I was right. (Laughter) But right after that, Pierre — in '96, Pierre and I left our full-time jobs to build eBay as a company. And the rest of that story, you know. The company went public two years later and is today one of the best known companies in the world. Hundreds of millions of people use it in hundreds of countries, and so on. But for me, personally, it was a real change. I went from living in a house with five guys in Palo Alto and living off their leftovers, to all of a sudden having all kinds of resources. And I wanted to figure out how I could take the blessing of these resources and share it with the world. And around that time, I met John Gardner, who is a remarkable man. He was the architect of the Great Society programs under Lyndon Johnson in the 1960s. And I asked him what he felt was the best thing I could do, or anyone could do, to make a difference in the long-term issues facing humanity. And John said, ""Bet on good people doing good things. Bet on good people doing good things."" And that really resonated with me. I started a foundation to bet on these good people doing good things. These leading, innovative, nonprofit folks, who are using business skills in a very leveraged way to solve social problems. People today we call social entrepreneurs. And to put a face on it, people like Muhammad Yunus, who started the Grameen Bank, has lifted 100 million people plus out of poverty around the world, won the Nobel Peace Prize. But there's also a lot of people that you don't know. Folks like Ann Cotton, who started a group called CAMFED in Africa, because she felt girls' education was lagging. And she started it about 10 years ago, and today, she educates over a quarter million African girls. And somebody like Dr. Victoria Hale, who started the world's first nonprofit pharmaceutical company, and whose first drug will be fighting visceral leishmaniasis, also known as black fever. And by 2010, she hopes to eliminate this disease, which is really a scourge in the developing world. And so this is one way to bet on good people doing good things. And a lot of this comes together in a philosophy of change that I find really is powerful. It's what we call, ""Invest, connect and celebrate."" And invest: if you see good people doing good things, invest in them. Invest in their organizations, or in business. Invest in these folks. Connecting them together through conferences — like a TED — brings so many powerful connections, or through the World Forum on Social Entrepreneurship that my foundation does at Oxford every year. And celebrate them: tell their stories, because not only are there good people doing good work, but their stories can help close these gaps of hope. And it was this last part of the mission, the celebrate part, that really got me back to thinking when I was a kid and wanted to tell stories to get people involved in the issues that affect us all. And a light bulb went off, which was, first, that I didn't actually have to do the writing myself, I could find writers. And then the next light bulb was, better than just writing, what about film and TV, to get out to people in a big way? And I thought about the films that inspired me, films like ""Gandhi"" and ""Schindler's List."" And I wondered who was doing these kinds of films today. And there really wasn't a specific company that was focused on the public interest. So, in 2003, I started to make my way around Los Angeles to talk about the idea of a pro-social media company and I was met with a lot of encouragement. One of the lines of encouragement that I heard over and over was, ""The streets of Hollywood are littered with the carcasses of people like you, who think you're going to come to this town and make movies."" And then of course, there was the other adage. ""The surest way to become a millionaire is to start by being a billionaire and go into the movie business."" (Laughter) Undeterred, in January of 2004, I started Participant Productions with the vision to be a global media company focused on the public interest. And our mission is to produce entertainment that creates and inspires social change. And we don't just want people to see our movies and say, that was fun, and forget about it. We want them to actually get involved in the issues. In 2005, we launched our first slate of films, ""Murder Ball,"" ""North Country,"" ""Syriana"" and ""Good Night and Good Luck."" And much to my surprise, they were noticed. We ended up with 11 Oscar nominations for these films. And it turned out to be a pretty good year for this guy. Perhaps more importantly, tens of thousands of people joined the advocacy programs and the activism programs that we created to go around the movies. And we had an online component of that, our community sect called Participate.net. But with our social sector partners, like the ACLU and PBS and the Sierra Club and the NRDC, once people saw the film, there was actually something they could do to make a difference. One of these films in particular, called ""North Country,"" was actually kind of a box office disaster. But it was a film that starred Charlize Theron and it was about women's rights, women's empowerment, domestic violence and so on. And we released the film at the same time that the Congress was debating the renewal of the Violence Against Women Act. And with screenings on the Hill, and discussions, and with our social sector partners, like the National Organization of Women, the film was widely credited with influencing the successful renewal of the act. And that to me, spoke volumes, because it's — the film started about a true-life story about a woman who was harassed, sued her employer, led to a landmark case that led to the Equal Opportunity Act, and the Violence Against Women Act and others. And then the movie about this person doing these things, then led to this greater renewal. And so again, it goes back to betting on good people doing good things. Speaking of which, our fellow TEDster, Al — I first saw Al do his slide show presentation on global warming in May of 2005. At that point, I thought I knew something about global warming. I thought it was a 30 to 50 year problem. And after we saw his slide show, it became clear that it was much more urgent. And so right afterwards, I met backstage with Al, and with Lawrence Bender, who was there, and Laurie David, and Davis Guggenheim, who was running documentaries for Participant at the time. And with Al's blessing, we decided on the spot to turn it into a film, because we felt that we could get the message out there far more quickly than having Al go around the world, speaking to audiences of 100 or 200 at a time. And you know, there's another adage in Hollywood, that nobody knows nothing about anything. And I really thought this was going to be a straight-to-PBS charitable initiative. And so it was a great shock to all of us when the film really captured the public interest, and today is mandatory viewing in schools in England and Scotland, and most of Scandinavia. We've sent 50,000 DVDs to high school teachers in the U.S. and it's really changed the debate on global warming. It was also a pretty good year for this guy. We now call Al the George Clooney of global warming. (Laughter) And for Participant, this is just the start. Everything we do looks at the major issues in the world. And we have 10 films in production right now, and dozens others in development. I'll quickly talk about a few coming up. One is ""Charlie Wilson's War,"" with Tom Hanks and Julia Roberts. And it's the true story of Congressman Charlie Wilson, and how he funded the Taliban to fight the Russians in Afghanistan. And we're also doing a movie called ""The Kite Runner,"" based on the book ""The Kite Runner,"" also about Afghanistan. And we think once people see these films, they'll have a much better understanding of that part of the world and the Middle East in general. We premiered a film called ""The Chicago 10"" at Sundance this year. It's based on the protesters at the Democratic Convention in 1968, Abby Hoffman and crew, and, again, a story about a small group of individuals who did make change in the world. And a documentary that we're doing on Jimmy Carter and his Mid-East peace efforts over the years. And in particular, we've been following him on his recent book tour, which, as many of you know, has been very non-controversial — (Laughter) — which is really bad for getting people to come see a movie. In closing, I'd like to say that everybody has the opportunity to make change in their own way. And all the people in this room have done so through their business lives, or their philanthropic work, or their other interests. And one thing that I've learned is that there's never one right way to make change. One can do it as a tech person, or as a finance person, or a nonprofit person, or as an entertainment person, but every one of us is all of those things and more. And I believe if we do these things, we can close the opportunity gaps, we can close the hope gaps. And I can imagine, if we do this, the headlines in 10 years might read something like these: ""New AIDS Cases in Africa Fall to Zero,"" ""U.S. Imports its Last Barrel of Oil"" — (Applause) — ""Israelis and Palestinians Celebrate 10 Years of Peaceful Coexistence."" (Applause) And I like this one, ""Snow Has Returned to Kilimanjaro."" (Laughter) And finally, an eBay listing for one well-traveled slide show, now obsolete, museum piece. Please contact Al Gore. And I believe that, working together, we can make all of these things happen. And I want to thank you all for having me here today. It's been a real honor. Thank you. (Applause) Oh, thank you."	其實我一直等著TED打電話來已經等了好幾年了其實早在2000年時,我就已經準備好要來聊聊eBay,但都沒人打給我而在2003年,我準備好一個演講是關於斯克爾基金會與社會企業. 沒人打來2004年,我成立了參與者製作公司那年我們發展的相當順利, 依然沒有來電去年,我終於接到電話但我得緊接著J.J. Abrams(著名電影製作人)演講（笑聲）你們真的很幽默,TED（笑聲） 當我第一次從矽谷搬到好萊塢時其實心有疑慮但後來我發現其實在好萊塢, 是有些好處的（笑聲）還有擁有自己的媒體公司的好處我也發現好萊塢與矽谷有很多相似的地方, 比我想像得還多好萊塢有代表的性感象徵, 而矽谷也有其性感象徵（笑聲）好萊塢有競爭對手, 而矽谷也有相互競爭的對手好萊塢, 大家愛聚集於權力中心而矽谷, 人們也愛聚在權力桌上所以這兩個地方是很相像的這是我始料未及的 其實今天我在這裡是要來說一個故事有部分是我個人的親身經歷. 當克里斯邀請我來演講時他說大家覺得我很神祕大家想知道是什麼能一直驅使我走下去激發我前進的動力是對未來的遠景我想這是我們所共享的是一個和平,繁榮能永續經營的世界這幾天裡我們聽了許多演講愛德威爾森的還有詹姆士納西維的照片我想我們都了解我們還得走多遠的路才能成為新世代的人類而我喜歡稱之為『人類2.0』這存在我們彼此之間用來終結我想是現今最大的兩個災難 一個是機會不均的鴻溝此鴻溝是昨晚柯林頓總統所談到的是不公不義,無法永續發展的還有貧窮,文盲與疾病以及在我們周遭的小奸小惡但另一個較為嚴重的差距是我們稱之為的希望鴻溝有些時候,有人會有這個很不好的想法認為一個平凡人是無法改變這個世界我覺得這個想法真的很糟糕所以今天我們要一起開啟全新的章節因為我們每一個人都有能力平衡機會鴻溝以及終止希望缺口如果TED的你們無法改變這世界,我不知道還有誰可以 至於我, 這些事在我小時候就開始發生了小時候,我與我的家人都會到紐約北部去露營整個夏天在那其實沒啥事好做除了被我姐姐欺負或看書所以我都會讀些像詹姆斯米契納詹姆斯克萊威爾以及安蘭得的作品他們的故事都讓這個世界變得非常小而且相互連結的地方這讓我想到如果我有能力寫故事寫些關於這世界其實是很小且緊緊相連的故事也許我可以讓大眾對人類全體相關的議題感到有興趣. 進而啟發他們動身改變 我不覺得這是最好的賺錢方法所以我決定要能夠經濟獨立自主如此我才可以儘快的寫出這些故事之後當我14歲時, 一件偶發事件打醒了我有一天我爸回家時告訴我們他得了癌症,而且病情並不樂觀他說他其實並不害怕自己即將要死去這件事他害怕的是他想要完成的事卻來不及做還好老天保佑, 多年以後,他現在還活著但對當時年輕的我來說, 這讓我有非常深的體會一個人是永遠不會知道他擁有多少時間所以我加快腳步. 我去研讀工程學發展了一些事業我覺得這會是讓我經濟無虞的契機 其中一項是電腦出租生意公司叫做隨身電腦這名字取得非常好因為大家一直把電腦偷走（笑聲）所以我想我需要學習如何經營生意我便到史丹福大學商學院就讀讀書期間我認識一個傢伙叫做皮耶歐米迪亞,他今天也在這. 皮耶,我很抱歉拿出這張老照片當我畢業之後, 皮耶跑來跟我說關於協助人們在網路上買賣交易的點子但憑著我畢業於史丹福的聰明才智我告訴他說: 皮耶,這想法很蠢耶（笑聲）當然不用說我是對的（笑聲） 但這之後,皮耶在96年時,和我一起離開了我們當時的正職工作開始建立eBay這家公司. 而之後的後續發展兩年之後公司開始正式上市如今成為世上最有名的企業之一在數百個國家裡有數億的人口都在使用這個網站,諸如此類的但對我個人來說, 這是個重大的轉捩點我從跟五個人合住在帕洛阿爾托靠著他們的剩菜剩飯維生突然之間,我成了擁有許多各項資源的人我開始思索我何以能夠好好運用這些資源, 並且與全世界的人來分享 這個時候,我認識了約翰加德納一個非常了不起的人他負責主持大社會計劃在1960年代林頓詹森擔任總統期間我向他請教我們應該做些什麼才能對這社會做出最好的貢獻來因應人類長久面對的問題他回道: 讓有志之士有機會做好事吧讓有志之士做好事我覺得這真的很有道理 我成立一個基金會來讓這些有志之士發揮其才這些具有創新思維的優秀的社會工作者運用極具影響力的管理能力來解決社會問題今天我們稱他們為社會企業家例如像穆罕默德尤努斯一手成立鄉村銀行他幫助了全世界約一億人口脫離貧窮並因此獲得諾貝爾和平獎的殊榮但還有更多默默耕耘的無名英雄像是安卡登, 於非洲成立一個名叫CAMFED的社會團體她有感於女性受教育的情形未見改善所以她於10年前成立該組織而到今天, 在非洲她讓超過25萬名女孩有機會受教育而另外像是維多利亞海爾教授成立全世界第一個非營利藥廠該公司研發的第一種藥物是用來治療內臟利甚曼病又名黑熱病她希望到2010年,能成功消滅該疾病此疾病在發展中國家是一大禍害所以她的善舉也是讓有志之士做好事的其中一個例子 當然還有很多是與關於改變的思維有所相關的我覺得這個力量真的很強大也就是我們稱之為『投資,連結, 發揚光大』投資- 如果你看到有能力的人對這社會做出貢獻好好投資在他們身上. 投資他們所屬的組織或其企業. 好好投資在這些人身上並利用研討會等活動來讓這些人連結起來例如像是TED, 連結了許多驚人的力量或是透過社會企業高峰會我的基金會每年都會在牛津舉辦一次將其發揚光大, 讚頌他們的故事因為這不僅僅只是有能力的人在做好事他們的故事同樣也能幫助銜接希望缺口 這就是這任務的最後一個階段, 發揚的部份這也讓我回想到當我還是個小孩時想要說故事給大家聽,讓大家都能親身參與影響我們全體的議題之中突然靈光乍現第一, 我發現我其實不需靠自己來寫這些故事. 我可以找專業作家然後我又想到還有比寫作更好的方式我何不來製作電影及電視, 這不是更能影響大眾嗎?所以我開始想有哪些電影激勵了我像『甘地』還有『辛德勒的名單』等電影我開始想現在有沒有哪個公司在製作類似這類電影後來發現其實並沒有特定的公司在製作關注社會議題的電影 所以在2003年, 我開始跑去洛杉磯去詢問成立關注社會議題的媒體公司的可能性當時我得到了不少鼓勵其中一句鼓勵的話我聽了好幾次『好萊塢的街上全是像你這種人』『以為你來到這,就可以拍電影』當然也有其他的名言『要成為百萬富翁最保險的辦法』『就是億萬富翁去搞電影』(笑聲) 但在毫不屈服的情況下, 我在2004年1月成立了參與者製作公司以期成為世界性的媒體公司並將焦點關注於社會議題上我們的任務是提供能改變社會與啟發人心的娛樂我們不想讓大家來看我們的電影只覺得這電影很有趣, 就沒了我們希望大家能真正的去在乎這些議題2005年, 我們首度推出一系列的電影有『輪椅上的競技』,『北國性騷擾』與『諜對諜』以及『晚安，祝你好運』令人驚訝的是,這些電影都被注意到了 最後我們得到了11項奧斯卡提名而且讓這個男人過了非常愉快的一年也許更重要的是有幾萬人投身參加倡導計畫活動以及社會活動也就是我們希望電影所能宣導的意義我們有一個網站, 隸屬於我們組織的一部分名叫Participate.net有我們的社會組織夥伴, 像是美國公民自由聯盟與公共電視網環保團體Sierra Club以及美國自然資源保護委員會, 一旦人們看了電影他們就可以立即起身行動, 為世界做出改變 其中特別是『北國性騷擾』一片其實算是票房災難這部電影是由莎莉賽隆所主演是在講述關於女性的權益與自主權家暴等等的議題電影推出的同時眾議院當時正在重新審議婦女暴力法案隨著電影在議會放映與後續的討論還有我們的社會組織夥伴像是國家婦女組織的幫助這部電影受到廣大的好評因為成功影響了婦女暴力法案的通過而且這對我來說,道盡了一切, 因為這是一部描述真實故事的電影關於一位受到侵犯的女性, 挺身控告她的上司之後成為一個標示的案例, 影響了平等法案以及婦女暴力法案等等電影就是在講述關於這位女性的努力作為後來產生了巨大的影響所以, 這又回到讓有志之士做好事 說到這個, 我們的TED講者高爾我第一次看到高爾在做地球暖化演講是在2005年的5月那時我以為我對地球暖化有點概念了我以為那是30到50年後才會發生的事但在我看完他的演講之後才發現這問題是相當急迫的所以演講之後, 我在後臺跟高爾見面還有勞倫斯班德也在那, 以及勞瑞大衛還有戴維斯古根漢他當時在參與者製作公司拍紀錄短片托高爾的福, 我們當場就立刻決定要把這議題拍成電影因為我們覺得這樣可以更快的把這訊息傳播出去比起讓高爾巡迴世界一次只能對100至200位觀眾演講 還有大家都知道, 在好萊塢有另一句名言就是人皆有所知而我覺得這將會是公共電視網慈善組織的大好契機這也讓我們很驚訝當這部電影成功地引起大眾注意的時候直到今日, 這部電影成為在英國與蘇格蘭的各大學校裡指定放映影片以及北歐的大部分國家我們寄了5萬張DVD給美國的高中教師而這真的改變大眾對地球暖化的認知那年對這個男人來說也是非常好的一年我們現在都稱呼高爾為地球暖化的喬治克魯尼(笑聲) 但這對參與者公司來說, 這只是個開端現在我們所作的一切都是全世界最主要的議題我們現在有10部電影正在拍攝當中有幾十部電影正在籌備我很快的談一下接下來幾部要上映的電影一部為『蓋世奇才』由湯姆漢克與茱莉亞蘿勃茲主演是在講述國會議員查理威爾森的真實故事描述他如何資助塔利班政府在阿富汗對抗蘇俄還有一部電影叫作『追風箏的孩子』是改編於同名小說, 同樣也是描述阿富汗的故事我們認為人們可以透過觀看這些電影能夠比較了解電影描述的那個世界也就是整個中東地區 今年我們在日舞影展舉行芝加哥 10 的電影首映這部電影是改編於1968年民主會議的抗爭者阿比霍夫曼與其同伴的故事同樣的, 這是個關於一個小群體成功地改變整個世界的故事還有一部是關於吉米卡特的紀錄片記錄他在這些年來對維護中東地區和平的貢獻特別的是我們還一路跟隨著他的新書宣傳活動他的新書, 大家都知道的, 是非常不具爭議性的(笑聲)這也很難讓民眾會想去看這部電影 最後, 我想說的是每一個人都有機會以自己的方式來改變這個世界而這屋裡的每一個人都一定有作出貢獻, 不管是透過工作或慈善事務,或其他方式而我學到的一件事就是要作出貢獻並沒有絕對的方式你可以是一名科技人員或理財專員或是非營利組織的員工又或者是藝人但每一個我們能力都不僅僅止於此 我相信如果我們有所作為我們可以銜接機會不均的鴻溝, 終結希望缺口可以想見如果我們動身開始著手進行10年後的報紙頭條可能會是『非洲地區愛滋病新增病例為零』『美國進口最後一桶石油』(鼓掌)『以色列人與巴勒斯坦人共同歡慶』『十周年的和平』(鼓掌)我喜歡這個『吉力馬扎羅山又開始下雪了』(笑聲)最後, 一個eBay的拍賣項目為一份遊歷四海的投影片現已過時為博物館收藏品- 請洽艾爾高爾我相信如果能一起攜手努力我們可以讓這些事成真我要謝謝你們今天能邀請我與你們共聚一堂這真的是我莫大的榮幸. 謝謝你們(鼓掌)謝謝
