Talk	en	zh-tw
jeffrey_brown_how_we_cut_youth_violence_in_boston_by_79_percent	"I've learned some of my most important life lessons from drug dealers and gang members and prostitutes, and I've had some of my most profound theological conversations not in the hallowed halls of a seminary but on a street corner on a Friday night, at 1 a.m. That's a little unusual, since I am a Baptist minister, seminary-trained, and pastored a church for over 20 years, but it's true. It came as a part of my participation in a public safety crime reduction strategy that saw a 79 percent reduction in violent crime over an eight-year period in a major city. But I didn't start out wanting to be a part of somebody's crime reduction strategy. I was 25, had my first church. If you would have asked me what my ambition was, I would have told you I wanted to be a megachurch pastor. I wanted a 15-, 20,000-member church. I wanted my own television ministry. I wanted my own clothing line. (Laughter) I wanted to be your long distance carrier. You know, the whole nine yards. (Laughter) After about a year of pastoring, my membership went up about 20 members. So megachurchdom was way down the road. But seriously, if you'd have said, ""What is your ambition?"" I would have said just to be a good pastor, to be able to be with people through all the passages of life, to preach messages that would have an everyday meaning for folks, and in the African-American tradition, to be able to represent the community that I serve. But there was something else that was happening in my city and in the entire metro area, and in most metro areas in the United States, and that was the homicide rate started to rise precipitously. And there were young people who were killing each other for reasons that I thought were very trivial, like bumping into someone in a high school hallway, and then after school, shooting the person. Someone with the wrong color shirt on, on the wrong street corner at the wrong time. And something needed to be done about that. It got to the point where it started to change the character of the city. You could go to any housing project, for example, like the one that was down the street from my church, and you would walk in, and it would be like a ghost town, because the parents wouldn't allow their kids to come out and play, even in the summertime, because of the violence. You would listen in the neighborhoods on any given night, and to the untrained ear, it sounded like fireworks, but it was gunfire. You'd hear it almost every night, when you were cooking dinner, telling your child a bedtime story, or just watching TV. And you can go to any emergency room at any hospital, and you would see lying on gurneys young black and Latino men shot and dying. And I was doing funerals, but not of the venerated matriarchs and patriarchs who'd lived a long life and there's a lot to say. I was doing funerals of 18-year-olds, 17-year-olds, and 16-year-olds, and I was standing in a church or at a funeral home struggling to say something that would make some meaningful impact. And so while my colleagues were building these cathedrals great and tall and buying property outside of the city and moving their congregations out so that they could create or recreate their cities of God, the social structures in the inner cities were sagging under the weight of all of this violence. And so I stayed, because somebody needed to do something, and so I had looked at what I had and moved on that. I started to preach decrying the violence in the community. And I started to look at the programming in my church, and I started to build programs that would catch the at-risk youth, those who were on the fence to the violence. I even tried to be innovative in my preaching. You all have heard of rap music, right? Rap music? I even tried to rap sermon one time. It didn't work, but at least I tried it. I'll never forget the young person who came to me after that sermon. He waited until everybody was gone, and he said, ""Rev, rap sermon, huh?"" And I was like, ""Yeah, what do you think?"" And he said, ""Don't do that again, Rev."" (Laughter) But I preached and I built these programs, and I thought maybe if my colleagues did the same that it would make a difference. But the violence just careened out of control, and people who were not involved in the violence were getting shot and killed: somebody going to buy a pack of cigarettes at a convenience store, or someone who was sitting at a bus stop just waiting for a bus, or kids who were playing in the park, oblivious to the violence on the other side of the park, but it coming and visiting them. Things were out of control, and I didn't know what to do, and then something happened that changed everything for me. It was a kid by the name of Jesse McKie, walking home with his friend Rigoberto Carrion to the housing project down the street from my church. They met up with a group of youth who were from a gang in Dorchester, and they were killed. But as Jesse was running from the scene mortally wounded, he was running in the direction of my church, and he died some 100, 150 yards away. If he would have gotten to the church, it wouldn't have made a difference, because the lights were out; nobody was home. And I took that as a sign. When they caught some of the youth that had done this deed, to my surprise, they were around my age, but the gulf that was between us was vast. It was like we were in two completely different worlds. And so as I contemplated all of this and looked at what was happening, I suddenly realized that there was a paradox that was emerging inside of me, and the paradox was this: in all of those sermons that I preached decrying the violence, I was also talking about building community, but I suddenly realized that there was a certain segment of the population that I was not including in my definition of community. And so the paradox was this: If I really wanted the community that I was preaching for, I needed to reach out and embrace this group that I had cut out of my definition. Which meant not about building programs to catch those who were on the fences of violence, but to reach out and to embrace those who were committing the acts of violence, the gang bangers, the drug dealers. As soon as I came to that realization, a quick question came to my mind. Why me? I mean, isn't this a law enforcement issue? This is why we have the police, right? As soon as the question, ""Why me?"" came, the answer came just as quickly: Why me? Because I'm the one who can't sleep at night thinking about it. Because I'm the one looking around saying somebody needs to do something about this, and I'm starting to realize that that someone is me. I mean, isn't that how movements start anyway? They don't start with a grand convention and people coming together and then walking in lockstep with a statement. But it starts with just a few, or maybe just one. It started with me that way, and so I decided to figure out the culture of violence in which these young people who were committing them existed, and I started to volunteer at the high school. After about two weeks of volunteering at the high school, I realized that the youth that I was trying to reach, they weren't going to high school. I started to walk in the community, and it didn't take a rocket scientist to realize that they weren't out during the day. So I started to walk the streets at night, late at night, going into the parks where they were, building the relationship that was necessary. A tragedy happened in Boston that brought a number of clergy together, and there was a small cadre of us who came to the realization that we had to come out of the four walls of our sanctuary and meet the youth where they were, and not try to figure out how to bring them in. And so we decided to walk together, and we would get together in one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the city on a Friday night and on a Saturday night at 10 p.m., and we would walk until 2 or 3 in the morning. I imagine we were quite the anomaly when we first started walking. I mean, we weren't drug dealers. We weren't drug customers. We weren't the police. Some of us would have collars on. It was probably a really odd thing. But they started speaking to us after a while, and what we found out is that while we were walking, they were watching us, and they wanted to make sure of a couple of things: that number one, we were going to be consistent in our behavior, that we would keep coming out there; and then secondly, they had wanted to make sure that we weren't out there to exploit them. Because there was always somebody who would say, ""We're going to take back the streets,"" but they would always seem to have a television camera with them, or a reporter, and they would enhance their own reputation to the detriment of those on the streets. So when they saw that we had none of that, they decided to talk to us. And then we did an amazing thing for preachers. We decided to listen and not preach. Come on, give it up for me. (Laughter) (Applause) All right, come on, you're cutting into my time now, okay? (Laughter) But it was amazing. We said to them, ""We don't know our own communities after 9 p.m. at night, between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m., but you do. You are the subject matter experts, if you will, of that period of time. So talk to us. Teach us. Help us to see what we're not seeing. Help us to understand what we're not understanding."" And they were all too happy to do that, and we got an idea of what life on the streets was all about, very different than what you see on the 11 o'clock news, very different than what is portrayed in popular media and even social media. And as we were talking with them, a number of myths were dispelled about them with us. And one of the biggest myths was that these kids were cold and heartless and uncharacteristically bold in their violence. What we found out was the exact opposite. Most of the young people who were out there on the streets are just trying to make it on the streets. And we also found out that some of the most intelligent and creative and magnificent and wise people that we've ever met were on the street, engaged in a struggle. And I know some of them call it survival, but I call them overcomers, because when you're in the conditions that they're in, to be able to live every day is an accomplishment of overcoming. And as a result of that, we said to them, ""How do you see this church, how do you see this institution helping this situation?"" And we developed a plan in conversation with these youths. We stopped looking at them as the problem to be solved, and we started looking at them as partners, as assets, as co-laborers in the struggle to reduce violence in the community. Imagine developing a plan, you have one minister at one table and a heroin dealer at the other table, coming up with a way in which the church can help the entire community. The Boston Miracle was about bringing people together. We had other partners. We had law enforcement partners. We had police officers. It wasn't the entire force, because there were still some who still had that lock-'em-up mentality, but there were other cops who saw the honor in partnering with the community, who saw the responsibility from themselves to be able to work as partners with community leaders and faith leaders in order to reduce violence in the community. Same with probation officers, same with judges, same with folks who were up that law enforcement chain, because they realized, like we did, that we'll never arrest ourselves out of this situation, that there will not be enough prosecutions made, and you cannot fill these jails up enough in order to alleviate the problem. I helped to start an organization 20 years ago, a faith-based organization, to deal with this issue. I left it about four years ago and started working in cities across the United States, 19 in total, and what I found out was that in those cities, there was always this component of community leaders who put their heads down and their nose to the grindstone, who checked their egos at the door and saw the whole as greater than the sum of its parts, and came together and found ways to work with youth out on the streets, that the solution is not more cops, but the solution is mining the assets that are there in the community, to have a strong community component in the collaboration around violence reduction. Now, there is a movement in the United States of young people who I am very proud of who are dealing with the structural issues that need to change if we're going to be a better society. But there is this political ploy to try to pit police brutality and police misconduct against black-on-black violence. But it's a fiction. It's all connected. When you think about decades of failed housing policies and poor educational structures, when you think about persistent unemployment and underemployment in a community, when you think about poor healthcare, and then you throw drugs into the mix and duffel bags full of guns, little wonder that you would see this culture of violence emerge. And then the response that comes from the state is more cops and more suppression of hot spots. It's all connected, and one of the wonderful things that we've been able to do is to be able to show the value of partnering together — community, law enforcement, private sector, the city — in order to reduce violence. You have to value that community component. I believe that we can end the era of violence in our cities. I believe that it is possible and that people are doing it even now. But I need your help. It can't just come from folks who are burning themselves out in the community. They need support. They need help. Go back to your city. Find those people. ""You need some help? I'll help you out."" Find those people. They're there. Bring them together with law enforcement, the private sector, and the city, with the one aim of reducing violence, but make sure that that community component is strong. Because the old adage that comes from Burundi is right: that you do for me, without me, you do to me. God bless you. Thank you. (Applause)"	我曾在這些人身上學到人生最寶貴的課堂：在毒販、黑社會成員和妓女身上。而令我最深刻的神學討論，不是在神學院的神聖會堂中發生，而是在街頭發生，在星期五晚上，凌晨一時。 這有些奇怪，因我是個在神學院受訓的浸信會牧師，還在一所教會做了超過二十年牧師，但這都是真的。這是我在參與減低罪案的計劃時的收獲，並令這大城市的犯罪率在八年後下跌了百分之七十九。 但我不是一開始就想參與減低罪案的計劃。我當時二十五歲，剛有自己的教會，如果你當時問我的人生目標是甚麼，我會說我想在一間超大型教會當牧師，我想有間擁有一萬五千、二萬信眾的教會，我想有自己的電視傳道節目，我想有自己的服裝品牌，(笑聲)我還想當你的長途電話公司，所有能想到的事我也想擁有。(笑聲) 在我當牧師一年後，我有約二十個信眾，所以距離超大型教會的目標還很遠。但老實說，當你問我的夢想是甚麼時，我只想成為一個好牧師，與人們渡過人生的所有階段，向人們傳道終生受用的訊息，以及正如非裔美國人的傳統所說的，能夠代表我所服務的社區。 但在我的城市中，有些事正在發生，就在整個都市中，以及美國大部份的都市。凶殺案的數字急劇上升，年輕人為了微不足道的小事殺害對方，例如在高中的走廊撞到別人，放學後便用槍殺害那人，又或是有人穿了顏色不對的衣服，在錯誤的時間和錯誤的地方出現。我們必須做些事情。這個問題已開始改變城市的面貌。你可到任何一個公共屋村，就如在我教會那條街的，當你走進那裡，那地方就如一個死城。即使在暑假，家長都不讓小孩出來玩，都是因為這些暴力事件。你在這個社區的任何一晚都會聽到像是煙花的聲音，但其實是槍聲。你幾乎每晚都能聽到，就在你準備晚餐時，和你的孩子說床邊故事時，或當你在看電視時。你也可以到任何一間醫院的急診室，看到擔架上中了彈並垂死的年輕黑人和拉丁美洲人。當我主持喪禮時，死去的不是受人尊敬的長者，這樣我會有很多話要說。但我是為十八歲、十七歲、十六歲的人主持喪禮。我當時站在教會或殯儀館裡，在掙扎應說甚麼能帶來改變的說話。因此當我的同事在興建又高又宏偉的大教堂時，他們購買城市外的物業讓他們能遷移信眾，以創造或再造他們的上帝之城，這時舊城區的社會結構正承受暴力事件的重擔。 因此我選擇留下，有人必須做些事。我看看有甚麼我可以做的便實行。我開始在社區傳道以打破暴力的污名，我亦開始檢視教會的活動計劃，我開始建立協助邊緣青年的計劃幫助那些快走向暴力的青年。我甚至嘗試用創新的方法傳道，你們都有聽過饒舌音樂嗎?饒舌音樂?我有次甚至以饒舌形式講道。雖然效果不佳，但至少我嘗試過。我還記得有個年輕人在佈道後走過來，他等所有人離開後跟我說:「牧師，饒舌講道嗎?」然後我問:「對呀，你覺得如何?」他說:「不要再這樣做了。」(笑聲) 我傳道和建立這些計劃，我想如果我的同事都這樣做的話，我們就可以帶來改變。但暴力事件就是不受控制。不牽涉在內的人卻被人射殺，例如到便利店買香菸的人，在巴士站候車的人，以及在公園玩耍的小孩，他們沒有察覺公園另一邊的暴力事件，但暴力事件發生在他們身上。事情失去了控制，而我不知道該做甚麼。突然一件事完全改變了我。這是關於一個叫Jesse McKie的孩子，和朋友Rigoberto Carrion一起回家，回到我教會附近的公共屋村。他們遇到了來自多切斯特幫派的一群青年，兩人都被殺。Jesse負著致命的傷逃走，他正朝著我教會的方向奔跑，但他在一百、一百五十碼外死了。就算他抵達教會也沒有分別，因當時所有燈都熄了，沒有人在那裡。但我視這為一個徵兆。當他們捉到做了這些壞事的青年時，令我很驚訝的是他們和我的年齡相近，但我們之間的差異十分大，就像我們活在完全不同的世界中。 正當我反思一切、思考發生了甚麼事時，我突然察覺我內心的一個問題：在我宣揚去除暴力的佈道中，我同時亦談及建設社群。但我突然醒覺有一撮人並不在我對社群的定義中。所以這個問題是這樣的：如果我真的想幫助這個社群，我必須走出去，並接納這群不在我定義中的人。我們不應只幫助那些快走向暴力的青年，還應幫助那些已在犯暴力罪行的人，那些黑社會成員和毒販。 當我有了這個覺醒後，我腦海中浮現一條問題：為何是我?這不應該是執法機構的問題嗎?這不是我們有警察的原因嗎?當這問題出現時，答案亦隨之而揭曉。為何是我? 因為我因這個問題而不能入睡，因為我認為有些人必須做些事，而我察覺這人就是我。社會運動不就是這樣開始嗎?一開始時並不是人們眾集在宏偉的會議中心，並有著共同的信念。開始時通常只有幾個人，或一個人， 而發起的就只有我。我決定研究這令年輕人犯下暴力罪行的文化。我開始在高中當義工，在兩星期的義工服務後，我發現我想接觸的青年都已輟學。因此我走進社區，但不需科學家也可知道他們不會在白天出現。所以我在深夜時走到街上，走到他們所在的公園，開始建立必需的關係。 一件在波士頓發生的悲劇令一些教士聚首一堂，當中有一小撮人發覺我們必須走出我們的教會，走到青年所在的地方，不追究甚麼事令他們變成這樣。我們決定和他們同行。在這城市最危險的社區認識對方，就在星期五和星期六的晚上，晚上十時，一起走到清晨二、三時。當我們剛開始時，我們是不正常的人，我們又不是毒販，我們不是吸毒的人，我們不是警察，我們還戴著羅馬領，所以這是十分奇怪的。但不久後他們開始和我們說話。我們後來發現當我們行走時，他們在觀察我們。他們想確認以下的事：第一，我們會否堅持我們的行動，我們會否堅持每晚到這裡；第二，他們想確認我們不是要用利用他們的。因為經常有些人說「我們須收回我們的街道」，但他們往往拿著電視台的攝影機，又或是個記者，他們傷害在街頭的人去提高自己的聲望。而當他們看到我們不是這些人時，他們開始和我們說話。然後我們做了一件令牧師驚訝的事，我們決定聆聽而不傳教。對呀，為我們鼓掌吧。(笑聲) (掌聲)好了停止吧，你們在佔用我的時間。 (笑聲)但這真的很神奇。我們跟他們說: 「我們不知道這社區在晚上九時是怎樣的，就在晚上九時至早上五時。但你們知道。你就是那個時段的主人翁。所以告訴我們，教導我們，幫助我們看見我們忽略了的事，幫助我們了解我們不明白的事。」而他們全都樂意這樣做，我們開始了解街頭的生活，這和你在晚間新聞中看到的十分不同，而且跟大眾媒體和社群網路描繪的十分不同。 當我們和他們交談時，我們打破了一些關於他們的迷思。而當中最大的迷思就是他們都是冷酷無情的，而且不尋常地暴戾。但我們發現的是完全相反的。大部份在街頭流連的青年人，他們只是在嘗試進入街頭的生活。我們亦發現一些我們見過最聰明、富創意、偉大、充滿智慧的人，都在街頭上掙扎中。我知道有些人稱之為求存，但我認為這是克服困難。因為當你在這環境時，能夠生存已經是一種成就。因此我們和他們說，「你認為這所教會、這個機構能怎樣改善這情況?」在與這些青年的對話中我們制定了計劃。我們不再視他們為需要解決的問題，我們開始視他們為夥伴、財富、以及打擊社區暴力的同事。試想像在討論一個計劃時，你有一個牧師在這，旁邊卻是一個販賣海洛英的人，他們一起為教會想辦法去幫助整個社區。 「波士頓奇蹟」的成功在於連繫人們。我們有同伴，我們有執法機構的夥伴，我們有一些警察同伴，但不是整個警方，因為仍然有些人認為要拘捕他們。但有另一種警察，他們為能夠協助社區而感到榮幸，他們認為有責任跟社區領袖和信仰領袖合作，一起打擊社區中的暴力。感化官也是這樣。法官也是這樣。執法機構的人也是這樣。因為他們像我們一樣明白到，我們絕不能置身事外，而且我們永遠不會有足夠的檢控，你不能填滿監獄去減輕這個問題。二十年前我協助一個有信仰背景的機構解決這個問題，我在四年前離開了。我開始在美國不同城市工作，總共十九個城市。而我發現這些城市中總有一些社區領袖，他們埋頭苦幹、犧牲自我，他們認為群體比個人更重要，他們一起尋找和街頭青年合作的方法。而解決方法並非更多的警察，而是發掘社區中的資產。我們需要社群積極的參與，一起為打擊暴力而合作。 現在在美國有些讓我驕傲的青年在發起一個運動，他們關注社會必須解決的結構性問題。現時的政治技倆把警方使用暴力和行為不當興黑人之間的暴力混為一談，但這不是真的。一切都是有關連的。當你想到數十年來失敗的公共屋村，以及差強人意的教育制度，當你想到社區持續不斷的失業，以及就業不足的問題，當你想到惡劣的醫療保健，你自然會走向毒品和整袋行李袋的槍，難怪這暴力的文化會出現。然後國家的應對方法是更多的警察，以及加強鎮壓犯罪熱點。一切都有關連的。而我們做了的一件美好的事，就是表現了互相合作的的可貴，社群、執法機構、私人機構和城市一起打擊暴力。你必須重視社群的支持。 我相信我們可以終結這個暴力的時代。我相信我們能做到，有些人現在已這樣做。但我需要你們的幫助。社區中只有幾個人拼命付出並不能成事。他們需要支持，他們需要幫助。回到你們的城市，找出這些人，「你需要幫忙嗎? 讓我協助你。」找出這些人，他們都在此。將這些人、執法機構、私人機構和城市團結一起，一起打擊暴力事件，但社群的支持是必需的。因為這布隆迪諺語說得很對:「你為我做的事，如果沒有了解我的意願，就是和我作對。」 願神保佑你們，謝謝。 (掌聲)
