Talk	en	zh-tw
jehane_noujaim_inspires_a_global_day_of_film	"I can't help but this wish: to think about when you're a little kid, and all your friends ask you, ""If a genie could give you one wish in the world, what would it be?"" And I always answered, ""Well, I'd want the wish to have the wisdom to know exactly what to wish for."" Well, then you'd be screwed, because you'd know what to wish for, and you'd use up your wish, and now, since we only have one wish — unlike last year they had three wishes — I'm not going to wish for that. So let's get to what I would like, which is world peace. And I know what you're thinking: You're thinking, ""The poor girl up there, she thinks she's at a beauty pageant. She's not. She's at the TED Prize."" (Laughter) But I really do think it makes sense. And I think that the first step to world peace is for people to meet each other. I've met a lot of different people over the years, and I've filmed some of them, from a dotcom executive in New York who wanted to take over the world, to a military press officer in Qatar, who would rather not take over the world. If you've seen the film ""Control Room"" that was sent out, you'd understand a little bit why. (Applause) Thank you. Wow! Some of you watched it. That's great. That's great. So basically what I'd like to talk about today is a way for people to travel, to meet people in a different way than — because you can't travel all over the world at the same time. And a long time ago — well, about 40 years ago — my mom had an exchange student. And I'm going to show you slides of the exchange student. This is Donna. This is Donna at the Statue of Liberty. This is my mother and aunt teaching Donna how to ride a bike. This is Donna eating ice cream. And this is Donna teaching my aunt how to do a Filipino dance. I really think as the world is getting smaller, it becomes more and more important that we learn each other's dance moves, that we meet each other, we get to know each other, we are able to figure out a way to cross borders, to understand each other, to understand people's hopes and dreams, what makes them laugh and cry. And I know that we can't all do exchange programs, and I can't force everybody to travel; I've already talked about that to Chris and Amy, and they said that there's a problem with this: You can't force people, free will. And I totally support that, so we're not forcing people to travel. But I'd like to talk about another way to travel that doesn't require a ship or an airplane, and just requires a movie camera, a projector and a screen. And that's what I'm going to talk to you about today. I was asked that I speak a little bit about where I personally come from, and Cameron, I don't know how you managed to get out of that one, but I think that building bridges is important to me because of where I come from. I'm the daughter of an American mother and an Egyptian-Lebanese-Syrian father. So I'm the living product of two cultures coming together. No pun intended. (Laughter) And I've also been called, as an Egyptian-Lebanese-Syrian American with a Persian name, the ""Middle East Peace Crisis."" So maybe me starting to take pictures was some kind of way to bring both sides of my family together — a way to take the worlds with me, a way to tell stories visually. It all kind of started that way, but I think that I really realized the power of the image when I first went to the garbage-collecting village in Egypt, when I was about 16. My mother took me there. She's somebody who believes strongly in community service, and decided that this was something that I needed to do. And so I went there and I met some amazing women there. There was a center there, where they were teaching people how to read and write, and get vaccinations against the many diseases you can get from sorting through garbage. And I began teaching there. I taught English, and I met some incredible women there. I met people that live seven people to a room, barely can afford their evening meal, yet lived with this strength of spirit and sense of humor and just incredible qualities. I got drawn into this community and I began to take pictures there. I took pictures of weddings and older family members — things that they wanted memories of. About two years after I started taking these pictures, the UN Conference on Population and Development asked me to show them at the conference. So I was 18; I was very excited. It was my first exhibit of photographs and they were all put up there, and after about two days, they all came down except for three. People were very upset, very angry that I was showing these dirty sides of Cairo, and why didn't I cut the dead donkey out of the frame? And as I sat there, I got very depressed. I looked at this big empty wall with three lonely photographs that were, you know, very pretty photographs and I was like, ""I failed at this."" But I was looking at this intense emotion and intense feeling that had come out of people just seeing these photographs. Here I was, this 18-year-old pipsqueak that nobody listened to, and all of a sudden, I put these photographs on the wall, and there were arguments, and they had to be taken down. And I saw the power of the image, and it was incredible. And I think the most important reaction that I saw there was actually from people that would never have gone to the garbage village themselves, that would never have seen that the human spirit could thrive in such difficult circumstances. And I think it was at that point that I decided I wanted to use photography and film to somehow bridge gaps, to bridge cultures, bring people together, cross borders. And so that's what really kind of started me off. Did a stint at MTV, made a film called ""Startup.com,"" and I've done a couple of music films. But in 2003, when the war in Iraq was about to start, it was a very surreal feeling for me, because before the war started, there was kind of this media war that was going on. And I was watching television in New York, and there seemed to be just one point of view that was coming across, and the coverage went from the US State Department to embedded troops. And what was coming across on the news was that there was going to be this clean war and precision bombings, and the Iraqis would be greeting the Americans as liberators, and throwing flowers at their feet in the streets of Baghdad. And I knew that there was a completely other story that was taking place in the Middle East, where my parents were. I knew that there was a completely other story being told, and I was thinking, ""How are people supposed to communicate with each other when they're getting completely different messages, and nobody knows what the other's being told? How are people supposed to have any kind of common understanding or know how to move together into the future? So I knew that I had to go there. I just wanted to be in the center. I had no plan. I had no funding. I didn't even have a camera at the time — I had somebody bring it there, because I wanted to get access to Al Jazeera, George Bush's favorite channel, and a place which I was very curious about because it's disliked by many governments across the Arab world, and also called the mouthpiece of Osama Bin Laden by some people in the US government. So I was thinking, this station that's hated by so many people has to be doing something right. I've got to go see what this is all about. And I also wanted to go see Central Command, which was 10 minutes away. And that way, I could get access to how this news was being created — on the Arab side, reaching the Arab world, and on the US and Western side, reaching the US. And when I went there and sat there, and met these people that were in the center of it, and sat with these characters, I met some surprising, very complex people. And I'd like to share with you a little bit of that experience of when you sit with somebody and you film them, and you listen to them, and you allow them more than a five-second sound bite. The amazing complexity of people emerges. Samir Khader: Business as usual. Iraq, and then Iraq, and then Iraq. But between us, if I'm offered a job with Fox, I'll take it. To change the Arab nightmare into the American dream. I still have that dream. Maybe I will never be able to do it, but I have plans for my children. When they finish high school, I will send them to America to study there. I will pay for their study. And they will stay there. Josh Rushing: The night they showed the POWs and the dead soldiers — Al Jazeera showed them — it was powerful, because America doesn't show those kinds of images. Most of the news in America won't show really gory images and this showed American soldiers in uniform, strewn about a floor, a cold tile floor. And it was revolting. It was absolutely revolting. It made me sick at my stomach. And then what hit me was, the night before, there had been some kind of bombing in Basra, and Al Jazeera had shown images of the people. And they were equally, if not more, horrifying — the images were. And I remember having seen it in the Al Jazeera office, and thought to myself, ""Wow, that's gross. That's bad."" And then going away, and probably eating dinner or something. And it didn't affect me as much. So, the impact that had on me — me realizing that I just saw people on the other side, and those people in the Al Jazeera office must have felt the way I was feeling that night, and it upset me on a profound level that I wasn't as bothered as much the night before. It makes me hate war. But it doesn't make me believe that we're in a world that can live without war yet. Jehane Noujaim: I was overwhelmed by the response of the film. We didn't know whether it would be able to get out there. We had no funding for it. We were incredibly lucky that it got picked up. And when we showed the film in both the United States and the Arab world, we had such incredible reactions. It was amazing to see how people were moved by this film. In the Arab world — and it's not really by the film, it's by the characters — I mean, Josh Rushing was this incredibly complex person who was thinking about things. And when I showed the film in the Middle East, people wanted to meet Josh. He kind of redefined us as an American population. People started to ask me, ""Where is this guy now?"" Al Jazeera offered him a job. (Laughter) And Samir, on the other hand, was also quite an interesting character for the Arab world to see, because it brought out the complexities of this love-hate relationship that the Arab world has with the West. In the United States, I was blown away by the motivations, the positive motivations of the American people when they'd see this film. You know, we're criticized abroad for believing we're the saviors of the world in some way, but the flip side of it is that, actually, when people do see what is happening abroad and people's reactions to some of our policy abroad, we feel this power, that we need to — we feel like we have to get the power to change things. And I saw this with audiences. This woman came up to me after the screening and said, ""You know, I know this is crazy. I saw the bombs being loaded on the planes, I saw the military going out to war, but you don't understand people's anger towards us until you see the people in the hospitals and the victims of the war, and how do we get out of this bubble? How do we understand what the other person is thinking?"" Now, I don't know whether a film can change the world. But I know the power of it, I know that it starts people thinking about how to change the world. Now, I'm not a philosopher, so I feel like I shouldn't go into great depth on this, but let film speak for itself and take you to this other world. Because I believe that film has the ability to take you across borders, I'd like you to just sit back and experience for a couple of minutes being taken into another world. And these couple clips take you inside of two of the most difficult conflicts that we're faced with today. [The last 48 hours of two Palestinian suicide bombers.] [Paradise Now] [Man: As long as there is injustice, someone must make a sacrifice!] [Woman: That's no sacrifice, that's revenge!] [If you kill, there's no difference between victim and occupier.] [Man: If we had airplanes, we wouldn't need martyrs, that's the difference.] [Woman: The difference is that the Israeli military is still stronger.] [Man: Then let us be equal in death.] [We still have Paradise.] [Woman: There is no Paradise! It only exists in your head!] [Man: God forbid!] [May God forgive you.] [If you were not Abu Azzam's daughter ...] [Anyway, I'd rather have Paradise in my head than live in this hell!] [In this life, we're dead anyway.] [One only chooses bitterness when the alternative is even bitterer.] [Woman: And what about us? The ones who remain?] [Will we win that way?] [Don't you see what you're doing is destroying us?] [And that you give Israel an alibi to carry on?] [Man: So with no alibi, Israel will stop?] [Woman: Perhaps. We have to turn it into a moral war.] [Man: How, if Israel has no morals?] [Woman: Be careful!] [And the real people building peace through non-violence] [Encounter Point] Video: (Ambulance siren) [Tel Aviv, Israel 1996] [Tzvika: My wife Ayelet called me and said, ] [""There was a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv.""] [Ayelet: What do you know about the casualties?] [Tzvika off-screen: We're looking for three girls.] [We have no information.] [Ayelet: One is wounded here, but we haven't heard from the other three.] [Tzvika: I said, ""OK, that's Bat-Chen, that's my daughter.] [Are you sure she is dead?""] [They said yes.] Video: (Police siren and shouting over megaphone) [Bethlehem, Occupied Palestinian Territories, 2003] [George: On that day, at around 6:30] [I was driving with my wife and daughters to the supermarket.] [When we got to here ...] [we saw three Israeli military jeeps parked on the side of the road.] [When we passed by the first jeep ...] [they opened fire on us.] [And my 12-year-old daughter Christine] [was killed in the shooting.] [Bereaved Families Forum, Jerusalem] [Tzvika: I'm the headmaster for all parts.] [George: But there is a teacher that is in charge?] [Tzvika: Yes, I have assistants.] [I deal with children all the time.] [One year after their daughters' deaths both Tzvika and George join the forum] [George: At first, I thought it was a strange idea.] [But after thinking logically about it, ] [I didn't find any reason why not to meet them] [and let them know of our suffering.] [Tzvika: There were many things that touched me.] [We see that there are Palestinians who suffered a lot, who lost children,] [and still believe in the peace process and in reconciliation.] [If we who lost what is most precious can talk to each other,] [and look forward to a better future,] [then everyone else must do so, too.] [From South Africa: A Revolution Through Music] [Amandla] (Music) (Video) Man: Song is something that we communicated with people who otherwise would not have understood where we're coming from. You could give them a long political speech, they would still not understand. But I tell you, when you finish that song, people will be like, ""Damn, I know where you niggas are coming from. I know where you guys are coming from. Death unto apartheid!"" Narrator: It's about the liberation struggle. It's about those children who took to the streets — fighting, screaming, ""Free Nelson Mandela!"" It's about those unions who put down their tools and demanded freedom. Yes. Yes! (Music and singing) (Singing) Freedom! (Applause) Jehane Noujaim: I think everybody's had that feeling of sitting in a theater, in a dark room, with other strangers, watching a very powerful film, and they felt that feeling of transformation. And what I'd like to talk about is how can we use that feeling to actually create a movement through film? I've been listening to the talks in the conference, and Robert Wright said yesterday that if we have an appreciation for another person's humanity, then they will have an appreciation for ours. And that's what this is about. It's about connecting people through film, getting these independent voices out there. Now, Josh Rushing actually ended up leaving the military and taking a job with Al Jazeera. (Laughter) So his feeling is that he's at Al Jazeera International because he feels like he can actually use media to bridge the gap between East and West. And that's an amazing thing. But I've been trying to think about ways to give power to these independent voices, to give power to the filmmakers, to give power to people who are trying to use film for change. And there are incredible organizations that are out there doing this already. There's Witness, that you heard from earlier. There's Just Vision, that are working with Palestinians and Israelis who are working together for peace, and documenting that process and getting interviews out there and using this film to take to Congress to show that it's a powerful tool, to show that this is a woman who's had her daughter killed in an attack, and she believes that there are peaceful ways to solve this. There's Working Films and there's Current TV, which is an incredible platform for people around the world to be able to put their — (Applause) Yeah, it's amazing. I've watched it and I'm blown away by it and its potential to bring voices from around the world — independent voices from around the world — and create a truly democratic, global television. So what can we do to create a platform for these organizations, to create some momentum, to get everybody in the world involved in this movement? I'd like for us to imagine for a second. Imagine a day when you have everyone coming together from around the world. You have towns and villages and theaters — all from around the world, getting together, and sitting in the dark, and sharing a communal experience of watching a film, or a couple of films, together. Watching a film which maybe highlights a character that is fighting to live, or just a character that defies stereotypes, makes a joke, sings a song. Comedies, documentaries, shorts. This amazing power can be used to change people and to bond people together; to cross borders, and have people feel like they're having a communal experience. So if you imagine this day when all around the world, you have theaters and places where we project films. If you imagine projecting from Times Square to Tahrir Square in Cairo, the same film in Ramallah, the same film in Jerusalem. You know, we've been talking to a friend of mine about using the side of the Great Pyramid and the Great Wall of China. It's endless what you can imagine, in terms of where you can project films and where you can have this communal experience. And I believe that this one day, if we can create it, this one day can create momentum for all of these independent voices. There isn't an organization which is connecting the independent voices of the world to get out there, and yet I'm hearing throughout this conference that the biggest challenge in our future is understanding the other, and having mutual respect for the other and crossing borders. And if film can do that, and if we can get all of these different locations in the world to watch these films together — this could be an incredible day. So we've already made a partnership, set up through somebody from the TED community, John Camen, who introduced me to Steven Apkon, from the Jacob Burns Film Center. And we started calling up everybody. And in the last week, there have been so many people that have responded to us, from as close as Palo Alto, to Mongolia and to India. There are people that want to be a part of this global day of film; to be able to provide a platform for independent voices and independent films to get out there. Now, we've thought about a name for this day, and I'd like to share this with you. Now, the most amazing part of this whole process has been sharing ideas and wishes, and so I invite you to give brainstorms onto how does this day echo into the future? How do we use technology to make this day echo into the future, so that we can build community and have these communities working together, through the Internet? There was a time, many, many years ago, when all of the continents were stuck together. And we call that landmass Pangea. So what we'd like to call this day of film is Pangea Cinema Day. And if you just imagine that all of these people in these towns would be watching, then I think that we can actually really make a movement towards people understanding each other better. I know that it's very intangible, touching people's hearts and souls, but the only way that I know how to do it, the only way that I know how to reach out to somebody's heart and soul all across the world, is by showing them a film. And I know that there are independent filmmakers and films out there that can really make this happen. And that's my wish. I guess I'm supposed to give you my one-sentence wish, but we're way out of time. Chris Anderson: That is an incredible wish. Pangea Cinema: The day the world comes together. JN: It's more tangible than world peace, and it's certainly more immediate. But it would be the day that the world comes together through film, the power of film. CA: Ladies and gentlemen, Jehane Noujaim."	"我忍不住想請各位回想小時候朋友問說，如果有精靈告訴你你能有個願望，那你想要什麼?我總是回說: ""我希望知道...希望知道自己究竟想許什麼願望""但知道想許的願望也沒用，因為一旦許了這個願望我也就用掉了唯一的願望既然我們只有一個願望，不像去年還有三個我就不許那個願望了 那我就明講了，我希望世界和平各位想什麼我一清二楚各位在想，台上那可憐的女孩她以為自己在選美比賽只不過是領個TED獎但我覺得這願望不無道理世界和平首先要讓人與人面對面這幾年我接觸形形色色的人拍攝他們的故事有紐約網路公司執行長，想要接管世界有卡達的軍方發言人反而不想這麼做如果各位看過電影""控制室""你們就知道為什麼，謝謝(掌聲)哇！有些人真的看過太好了 今天我想和各位分享人們該如何利用旅行用不同的方式接觸人群因為各位無法短時間內環遊世界大約40年以前我媽接待一位交換學生投影片上就是哪位學生這是唐娜唐娜和自由女神像拍照我媽和阿姨教唐娜騎腳踏車唐娜吃冰淇淋唐娜教阿姨跳菲律賓舞現在我深深覺得世界越來越小學習彼此的舞步變得越來越重要我們接觸彼此，了解他人找出跨越國界的方法了解他人的希望與夢想了解他們喜悅和悲傷的原因當然不是每個人都可以當交換學生我也沒辦法要求各位去旅行我和克里斯、愛咪談過這點他們說這有問題你無法干涉他人自由意志，這點我完全同意所以我們無法要求他人一定要旅行但我想談談另一種旅行不用搭船或飛機只要透過攝影機、投影機、螢幕那就是我今天要和各位分享的 有人要我談談我的出身卡麥隆，不知道你同不同意但我想，從自身聊起很重要因為那是我的家鄉我的母親是美國人父親是埃及、黎巴嫩、敘利亞人我天生就是兩種文化人沒有故意押韻別人也叫我有個波斯名字的埃黎敘美國人儼然是中東和平危機的縮影 或許拍照是種開始的方法可以拉近兩個家族的距離將不同的世界帶在身邊，用影像說故事我就是用這種方法開始但我真的了解影像力量的時候是我第一次去埃及的撿破爛村那時16歲，是媽媽帶我去的她很相信社區服務的力量也要我跟著一起做到了那裡，我遇到一些很棒的婦人那裡有個社區中心她們在那裡教人閱讀、寫字接種預防許多疾病的疫苗撿垃圾帶來的疾病我先開始在那裡當老師教英文，遇到一些令人敬佩的婦女有些人是 7 個人擠一間房間他們幾乎負擔不起晚餐但活得很有活力，生活充滿幽默感這些特質太了不起了 我受到這個社區的吸引，便開始拍照照了幾張婚禮和家族長者的照片讓他們可以留下美好回憶開始拍照後的兩年開羅舉辦的聯合國人口與發展大會邀請我在大會中播放這些照片那時才18歲，感覺很興奮那是第一次公開展示我拍的所有照片兩天後，只剩下三張還留著在場的人都很生氣、很憤怒因為我呈現了開羅污穢的一面他們質疑為何我沒有把驢子的屍體修掉當時我坐在那兒，感到很沮喪看著空盪盪的一面牆三張零散的照片原本很美的照片，卻被我搞砸了但我在尋找這種強烈的情感、情緒看到這些照片讓人們自然流露的那種情緒當時我不過是個沒人在乎的18歲小毛頭突然間把照片秀出來讓他們產生爭執，照片被迫撤下來當時我看到的是影像的力量實在太不可思議當時看到最重要的反應是有人從未親自去過那個垃圾回收村在那兒不可能會有人性光輝尤其在那種惡劣的情況下就在那時，我決定了我要利用攝影和電影的力量填補缺口，媒介文化，拉近距離，跨越國界那就是我的起點 後來在MTV工作，作了部Startup.com的影片2000年時，製作些音樂影片但2003年，伊拉克戰爭一觸即發感覺很不真實因為戰爭開打前，正進行著媒體戰我正好在紐約看電視報導媒體似乎只有一方觀點觀點只從...只報導美國務院到駐紮部隊的消息還有人民的觀感新聞報導說這會是個乾淨的戰爭，轟炸絕對精準伊拉克人會夾道歡迎，將美軍視為自由解放者一般在巴格達街上，灑滿美麗的花朵但我知道在我父母所處的中東卻有著不同的故事版本在中東，故事不是這樣寫的所以我就思考，究竟人應該怎樣交流尤其當兩方接收的訊息截然不同彼此也不知道對方接收何種訊息人們究竟該如何建立起共識如何共同迎向未來？所以我覺得我該前往中東我就是想深入事件發生的核心我沒有計畫，沒有資金那時連攝影機也沒有還是有人幫我帶攝影機去的因為我想和半島電視台搭上線小布希最愛的頻道一個我很好奇的地方因為許多阿拉伯國家都不喜歡這個電視台它有個綽號叫賓拉登的發言人這是有些美國政府官員取的 各位也知道很多人討厭這個電視台我想我必須做些對的事情我得要親自看看裡面是什麼樣子我也想看看中央司令部的情形離電視台只有10分鐘路程我就可以知道他們製作新聞的方法如何以阿拉伯角度製作、散佈新聞如何以美國、西方角度製作、散佈新聞 到了那裡，坐下來之後見到在事件中心的人們和這些人物並坐著遇到一些令人驚奇、想法細膩的人我想和各位分享點那次經驗坐在那邊，拍攝他們，傾聽他們給他們不過五秒時間就會發現這些不可思議、心思縝密的人的魅力 薩米爾．卡德：一如往常伊拉克，伊拉克，還是伊拉克你可不要說出去，要是福斯電視給我份工作，我就接把阿拉伯惡夢變成美國夢我還擁有那種夢想也許永遠不可能達成但我幫小孩計畫好了高中畢業，就送他們到美國讀書我會付他們的學費他們就待在那裡喬許．羅辛：他們播戰俘和陣亡的士兵時半島電視台的新聞畫面很直接那衝擊很大，因為美國看不到這種畫面美國大部分的新聞不會播血腥畫面美國大兵身穿軍服，倒臥在地冷冰冰的磁磚地板太噁心了真的很噁心讓我很反胃但我驚訝的是在前一晚巴斯拉發生幾起爆炸事件半島電視台播放的現場畫面就和陣亡的美國士兵畫面一樣駭人我記得是在半島電視台辦公室看的心想那真是噁心真差勁然後就走了去吃頓晚餐什麼的我沒受什麼影響它給我的影響是我了解到我只不過看到另一方的人民而半島電視台辦公室的那些人內心感受一定跟我那晚一樣真的感覺很討厭但巴斯拉的新聞沒怎樣影響我它讓我痛恨戰爭但我不相信這世界可以沒有戰爭 耶涵．妮詹姆：人們對影片的反應讓我印象深刻我們不知道能不能離開那裡我們沒有資金拍片但很幸運可以拍出來讓美國和阿拉伯世界看這部片時觀察到如此難以置信的反應看到人們受到影片的感動，太令人驚訝了在阿拉伯世界，感動人的不是影片而是影片中的人物喬許．羅辛真是個心思細膩的人他真的有在思考在中東播這部影片的時候有人說他們想見見喬許喬許似乎重新定義了美國人這個族群有人問我，喬許現在在哪裡？半島電視台給他一份工作另外還有薩米爾他也是阿拉伯世界很有興趣的人物因為他的說法透露了阿拉伯世界和西方世界雙方愛恨情仇的複雜關係 在美國，美國人的反應讓我印象深刻美國人的正向動機在他們看了影片後出現在美國以外的土地上，我們飽受抨擊自以為是世界的救星但相反的當人們看到國外發生的事情對美國外交政策的感受我們感受到這種力量就好像我們得要獲得這種力量，改變現狀我從觀眾反應裡觀察到這一點一位女士看完影片後告訴我你知道嗎？這聽起很瘋狂，我看著飛機裝上炸彈看著軍隊出兵打仗但你不知道當地人對我們的憤怒直到看到醫院的傷患和戰爭的犧牲者我們該怎樣遠離這樣的困境？ 該怎樣了解他人的想法？我不知道影片能否改變世界但它開啟了—我知道那種力量我知道它讓人們開始思考該如何改變世界 我不是哲學家所以不想講得太深奧，就看看影片吧讓影片帶各位進入另一個世界因為我相信影片可以帶領各位跨越國界希望各位好好體驗接下來的幾分鐘前往另一個世界觀賞這幾段短片內容探討我們今日面對最嚴峻的衝突 一旦有不公義出現，總要有人犧牲 那不算犧牲，而是復仇殺了人，不就跟那些佔領者沒兩樣 如果我們有飛機，就不需要烈士，那就有差別 差別在於以色列軍隊還是很強大 至少他們死的人數不能比我們少我們還有天堂 天堂只在你的腦袋裡 童言無忌，童言無忌願真神寬恕妳要不是妳是阿布．阿贊姆的女兒...算了，我寧願腦中有天堂，也不要活在地獄了反正我們這輩子已是行屍走肉 我不入地獄，誰入地獄 那我們呢？還活下來的人？那麼做能贏嗎？你不知道這樣做會毀了我們嗎？你給了以色列藉口，讓他們就繼續為所欲為？ 就算他們沒了藉口，難道就此罷休？ 說不準，我們可以轉成道德戰 怎麼做，如果以色列沒有道德？ 小心 我太太雅蕾特叫住我說道特拉維夫發生自殺炸彈攻擊 你知道死傷狀況嗎？我們在找我們三個女兒 我們沒收到消息 有一個在這裡被發現受傷，但其他三個不知下落 我說: ""是的，那是百辰，是我的女兒""你確定她已經死了？根據他們的消息，是的 席維卡：那天六點半時我載著太太和女兒去超市到了那裡...看到了三輛以色列軍事吉普車停在路邊通過第一輛時...他們朝我們開火12 歲的女兒，克莉絲汀就這樣被開槍打死了 席維卡：我是學校校長 喬治：但是有老師代替你的職務？席維卡：沒錯，我有幾個助理我常處理小孩的事 席維卡：一開始我以為這是奇怪的想法但想清楚後我發現沒道理不見他們讓他們了解我們的痛苦 喬治：許多事感動我我們目睹巴勒斯坦人失去孩子，飽受煎熬但還是相信和平進程與雙邊和解一旦我們失去最珍貴的東西，可以換來彼此對話以及追尋美好未來機會那大家就都必須這麼做 歌曲是我們彼此溝通的一種媒介和那些不知從何而來的人溝通你可以發表政治演說他們還是不會懂但要是你把歌唱完他們會說：""媽的，我知道你們打那兒來""我知道你們打那兒來誓死反抗種族隔離 這和自由奮鬥有關...和上街的孩童有關它們抗爭、大喊：""釋放曼德拉""關於這些工會會員放下工具爭取自由對！自由！ 耶涵．妮詹姆：大家應該都有坐在戲院的經驗和陌生人在漆黑的房間，看著令人震撼的影片他們感受到變化我指的是—我們究竟該如何利用這種感覺透過影片真正創造一場行動我聽過其他人的演說羅伯．萊特昨天說過若我們賞識他人的人性精神他們也會對我們做同樣的事這就是精神所在透過影片，連結人群凝聚這些獨立的聲音現在喬許離開軍隊了接了半島電視台的工作他覺得自己是半島國際電視台的一員因為他覺得可以真正運用媒體的力量解開中東和西方世界的誤會那真是令人振奮的一件事但我一直在想方設法讓這些獨立的聲音擁有力量給予這些製片人力量給予嘗試用影片改變世界的朋友力量有些很棒的組織已經開始著手進行各位剛也聽到親身經歷的人所說的有些正義的遠見，相信巴勒斯坦和以色列人可以合作共同為和平打拼，並記錄整個過程進行面訪，並利用這個影片帶到國會，證明它是多麼有力的工具播放一位婦人的女兒是如何在攻擊中喪生她仍相信可以用和平手段解決紛爭不論製作中的影片或電視放送都可以讓全球人看到可以將他們—沒錯，很棒，不是嗎看過影片，我自己都深受感動它有潛力將全球的聲音放送出去來自世界各地的獨立聲音打造真正民主、全球的電視 那我們該如何為這些組織打造平台創造動力讓全世界的人都參與這場行動請各位花一秒鐘，想像有那麼一天若全球所有人都凝聚起來全球的鄉鎮、戲院充滿著人坐在一片漆黑的房間中分享觀看影片的共同經驗或一起觀看好幾部影片其中一部影片的劇情可能是主角為生存奮鬥或反抗刻板印象說個笑話，唱首歌搞笑、記錄、小品這些驚人的力量都可以用來改變大眾將大眾凝聚在一起，不分國界讓大眾感覺他們分享共同經驗試想，有那麼一天，全世界的人都做同件事各地戲院播放同樣的影片各位想像一下—從時代廣場投射到開羅的塔希爾廣場同樣的影片在雷馬拉，在耶路撒冷播放甚至可以利用—我們和我一位朋友談過利用埃及金字塔的其中一邊在中國長城牆上播放這充滿無限可能你想播放影片的地點到處皆可不論何地，都可引起共鳴我深信若有這麼一天只要一天，就可為那些獨立的聲音創造動力沒有一個地方—沒有任何一個組織將世界上的獨立聲音串連起來整場大會聽下來未來最大的危險是理解不足不同國界的人無法相互尊重若影片可以消弭這種危險若我們能貢獻一己之力讓大家一起觀看影片，這會是驚人的一天 所以我們已經透過TED建立夥伴連結網TED社群有人幫忙我像約翰．凱門就為我引薦雅各．博恩斯製片中心的史蒂芬．艾波肯所以我們開始聯絡大家上禮拜有好多人回覆我們來自世界各地像帕羅奧圖、蒙古、印度好多人都想共襄盛舉為獨立的聲音提供平台讓獨立製片走出去現在我們正要為這一天命名我想和各位分享現在，整個過程最棒的部份就是分享想法、願望邀請各位腦力激盪一下這一天在未來該如何進行？如何運用科技讓這一天在未來也能夠發揮力量如此才可建立社群透過網路讓各社群合作嗎？好久好久以前各大陸是連在一塊的我們稱之為盤古大陸所以我們想將這天命名為盤古電影日各位想像一下所有人都在觀看影片這樣我想就可以創造一種行動讓所有人彼此了解 我知道那很無形，觸動人的心和靈魂但這是唯一我會做的方法唯一我知道該如何走出去的方法播放影片，橫越世界，走進他人的心與靈魂我知道有許多獨立製片人仍在努力讓這一切順利成真那就是我的願望我想我該說出完整的願望但時間有限 那是個了不起的願望盤古電影日 — 凝聚世界的一天 這比世界和平來的實際，而且比較快達成但必須透過影片，團結世界，造就那一天這正是影片的力量 各位先生女士，耶涵．妮詹姆，為她掌聲鼓勵"
