Talk	en	zh-tw
jennifer_granholm_a_clean_energy_proposal_race_to_the_top	"Well, I was introduced as the former Governor of Michigan, but actually I'm a scientist. All right, a political scientist, it doesn't really count, but my laboratory was the laboratory of democracy that is Michigan, and, like any good scientist, I was experimenting with policy about what would achieve the greatest good for the greatest number. But there were three problems, three enigmas that I could not solve, and I want to share with you those problems, but most importantly, I think I figured out a proposal for a solution. The first problem that not just Michigan, but every state, faces is, how do you create good jobs in America in a global economy? So let me share with you some empirical data from my lab. I was elected in 2002 and, at the end of my first year in office in 2003, I got a call from one of my staff members, who said, ""Gov, we have a big problem. We have a little tiny community called Greenville, Michigan, population 8,000, and they are about to lose their major employer, which is a refrigerator factory that's operated by Electrolux."" And I said, ""Well, how many people work at Electrolux?"" And he said, ""3,000 of the 8,000 people in Greenville."" So it is a one-company town. And Electrolux was going to go to Mexico. So I said, ""Forget that. I'm the new Governor. We can fix this. We're going to go to Greenville with my whole cabinet and we will just make Electrolux an offer they can't refuse."" So I brought my whole cabinet, and we met with all of the pooh-bahs of little Greenville — the mayor, the city manager, the head of the community college — and we basically emptied our pockets and put all of our chips on the table, incentives, you name it, to convince Electrolux to stay, and as we made our pile of chips, we slid them across the table to the management of Electrolux. And in the pile were things like zero taxes for 20 years, or that we'd help to build a new factory for the company, we'd help to finance it. The UAW, who represented the workers, said they would offer unprecedented concessions, sacrifices to just keep those jobs in Greenville. So the management of Electrolux took our pile, our list of incentives, and they went outside the room for 17 minutes, and they came back in and they said, ""Wow, this is the most generous any community has ever been to try to keep jobs here. But there's nothing you can do to compensate for the fact that we can pay $1.57 an hour in Juarez, Mexico. So we're leaving."" And they did. And when they did, it was like a nuclear bomb went off in little Greenville. In fact, they did implode the factory. That's a guy that is walking on his last day of work. And on the month that the last refrigerator rolled off the assembly line, the employees of Electrolux in Greenville, Michigan, had a gathering for themselves that they called the last supper. It was in a big pavilion in Greenville, an indoor pavilion, and I went to it because I was so frustrated as Governor that I couldn't stop the outflow of these jobs, and I wanted to grieve with them, and as I went into the room— there's thousands of people there. It was a just big thing. People were eating boxed lunches on roundtop tables, and there was a sad band playing music, or a band playing sad music, probably both. (Laughter) And this guy comes up to me, and he's got tattoos and his ponytail and his baseball cap on, and he had his two daughters with him, and he said, ""Gov, these are my two daughters."" He said, ""I'm 48 years old, and I have worked at this factory for 30 years. I went from high school to factory. My father worked at this factory,"" he said. ""My grandfather worked at this factory. All I know is how to make refrigerators."" And he looked at his daughters, and he puts his hand on his chest, and he says, ""So, Gov, tell me, who is ever going to hire me? Who is ever going to hire me?"" And that was asked not just by that guy but by everyone in the pavilion, and frankly, by every worker at one of the 50,000 factories that closed in the first decade of this century. Enigma number one: How do you create jobs in America in a global economy? Number two, very quickly: How do you solve global climate change when we don't even have a national energy policy in this country and when gridlock in Congress seems to be the norm? In fact, there was a poll that was done recently and the pollster compared Congress's approval ratings to a number of other unpleasant things, and it was found, in fact, that Congress's approval rating is worse than cockroaches, lice, Nickelback the band, root canals and Donald Trump. (Laughter) But wait, the good news is it's at least better than meth labs and gonorrhea. (Laughter) We got a problem, folks. So it got me thinking, what is it? What in the laboratory that I see out there, the laboratories of democracy, what has happened? What policy prescriptions have happened that actually cause changes to occur and that have been accepted in a bipartisan way? So if I asked you, for example, what was the Obama Administration policy that caused massive changes across the country, what would you say? You might say Obamacare, except for those were not voluntary changes. As we know, only half the states have opted in. We might say the Recovery Act, but those didn't require policy changes. The thing that caused massive policy changes to occur was Race to the Top for education. Why? The government put a $4.5 billion pot and said to the governors across the country, compete for it. Forty-eight governors competed, convincing 48 state legislatures to essentially raise standards for high schoolers so that they all take a college prep curriculum. Forty-eight states opted in, creating a national [education] policy from the bottom up. So I thought, well, why can't we do something like that and create a clean energy jobs race to the top? Because after all, if you look at the context, 1.6 trillion dollars has been invested in the past eight years from the private sector globally, and every dollar represents a job, and where are those jobs going? Well, they're going to places that have policy, like China. In fact, I was in China to see what they were doing, and they were putting on a dog-and-pony show for the group that I was with, and I was standing in the back of the room during one of the demonstrations and standing next to one of the Chinese officials, and we were watching, and he says, ""So, Gov, when do you think the U.S. is going to get national energy policy?"" And I said, ""Oh my God — Congress, gridlock, who knows?"" And this is what he did, he goes, he says, ""Take your time."" Because they see our passivity as their opportunity. So what if we decided to create a challenge to the governors of the country, and the price to entry into this competition used the same amount that the bipartisan group approved in Congress for the Race to the Top for education, 4.5 billion, which sounds like a lot, but actually it's less than one tenth of one percent of federal spending. It's a rounding error on the federal side. But price to entry into that competition would be, you could just, say, use the President's goal. He wants Congress to adopt a clean energy standard of 80 percent by 2030, in other words, that you'd have to get 80 percent of your energy from clean sources by the year 2030. Why not ask all of the states to do that instead? And imagine what might happen, because every region has something to offer. You might take states like Iowa and Ohio — two very important political states, by the way — those two governors, and they would say, we're going to lead the nation in producing the wind turbines and the wind energy. You might say the solar states, the sun belt, we're going to be the states that produce solar energy for the country, and maybe Jerry Brown says, ""Well, I'm going to create an industry cluster in California to be able to produce the solar panels so that we're not buying them from China but we're buying them from the U.S."" In fact, every region of the country could do this. You see, you've got solar and wind opportunity all across the nation. In fact, if you look just at the upper and northern states in the West, they could do geothermal, or you could look at Texas and say, we could lead the nation in the solutions to smart grid. In the middle eastern states which have access to forests and to agricultural waste, they might say, we're going to lead the nation in biofuels. In the upper northeast, we're going to lead the nation in energy efficiency solutions. Along the eastern seaboard, we're going to lead the nation in offshore wind. You might look at Michigan and say, we're going to lead the nation in producing the guts for the electric vehicle, like the lithium ion battery. Every region has something to offer, and if you created a competition, it respects the states and it respects federalism. It's opt-in. You might even get Texas and South Carolina, who didn't opt into the education Race to the Top, you might even get them to opt in. Why? Because Republican and Democratic governors love to cut ribbons. We want to bring jobs. I'm just saying. And it fosters innovation at the state level in these laboratories of democracy. Now, any of you who are watching anything about politics lately might say, ""Okay, great idea, but really? Congress putting four and a half billion dollars on the table? They can't agree to anything."" So you could wait and go through Congress, although you should be very impatient. Or, you renegades, we could go around Congress. Go around Congress. What if we created a private sector challenge to the governors? What if several of the high-net worth companies and individuals who are here at TED decided that they would create, band together, just a couple of them, and create a national competition to the governors to have a race to the top and see how the governors respond? What if it all started here at TED? What if you were here when we figured out how to crack the code to create good paying jobs in America — (Applause) — and get national energy policy and we created a national energy strategy from the bottom up? Because, dear TEDsters, if you are impatient like I am, you know that our economic competitors, our other nations, are in the game and are eating us for lunch. And we can get in the game or not. We can be at the table or we can be on the table. And I don't know about you, but I prefer to dine. Thank you all so much. (Applause)"	好，介紹中說我是密西根前州長但其實我是一名科學家好吧，一名政治科學家，算不上正牌貨但我的實驗室是民主實驗室即密西根州，一如任何的優秀科學家我正在試驗政策內容是如何為多數人創造最大福祉但其中存在三個問題、三個難題是我無法解決的我想跟大家分享這些問題但最重要的是我認為我已想出一個解決方案 第一個問題不僅是密西根州也是每個州都面臨的問題如何在全球經濟市場替美國創造好工作？ 因此我想與大家分享一些來自我實驗室的經驗資料我於2002年當選州長就任屆滿一年後的2003年我接到一位幕僚的電話，他說「州長，我們有個大麻煩」「密西根州有個名叫格林維爾的小社區」「人口八千」「即將失去最大的雇主」「即伊萊克斯公司經營的冰箱工廠」 我說，「好，多少居民任職於伊萊克斯公司？」 他說，「八千位格林維爾居民中的三千人」 所以這城鎮只有一間公司伊萊克斯打算遷往墨西哥 於是我說：「別擔心，我是新州長」「我們可以解決這個問題，我們去格林維爾看看」「帶上全體閣員」「然後給伊萊克斯一個無法拒絕的提議」 因此我帶領全體閣員與格林維爾所有顯要人士見面 －市長、市政執行長、社區學院院長 －我們可以說連壓箱寶都掏出來了將所有籌碼攤在桌上即所謂的獎勵措施要說服伊萊克斯留下我們拿出所有籌碼推過桌面，送到伊萊克斯主管面前這些籌碼包括免稅 20 年或我們會協助該公司蓋一座新工廠提供金援代表工人的UAW（美國汽車工會）說他們會提供前所未有的優惠所有犧牲只為了將工作留在格林維爾 於是伊萊克斯主管拿起籌碼即我們列出的獎勵，他們走出房間商量了17分鐘他們回來後，開口說「哇，這是有史以來」「社區為了留住工作機會所做過最慷慨的提議」「但依然無法彌補差額」「事實上，我們在墨西哥的華雷斯」「支付的時薪只有 1.57 美元。因此我們會搬遷」 他們要搬了。他們決定這樣做時像是在小小的格林維爾引爆了一枚核彈事實上，這確實震驚了整個工廠圖中這男子是最後一天上班最後一個冰箱通過裝配線的那個月密西根州格林維爾的伊萊克斯雇員自行舉辦了一場聚會他們稱之為最後的晚餐地點在格林維爾一座大型室內展覽館我參加了那場聚會因為身為州長的我沮喪萬分我無力阻止這些工作外流我想與他們共同承擔這份悲傷我走進館內時，已有上千人到場這是一場盛大的聚會，人們吃著便當圍在圓桌旁一個悲傷的樂團演奏著音樂或者說一個樂團演奏著悲傷的音樂，或許兩者皆是（笑聲） 一名男子來到我面前刺青、綁馬尾、戴棒球帽他帶著兩個女兒他說：「州長，這兩個是我女兒」他說：「我今年48歲」「我在這間工廠工作了30年」「我高中畢業後就進了工廠」「我父親在這間工廠工作，」他說「我祖父在這間工廠工作」「我只知道怎麼製造冰箱」他看著兩個女兒將手放在胸口然後說，「所以，州長，請告訴我」「還有誰會雇用我？」「還有誰會雇用我？」這不僅是這名男子的疑問也是館內每個人的疑問坦白說，也是本世紀第一個十年內五萬間歇業工廠中每位工人的疑問第一個難題：如何在全球經濟市場替美國創造就業機會？ 我很快地說明第二個難題：如何解決全球氣候變化問題在我國甚至連國家能源政策都沒有而國會僵局似乎已成常態時？事實上，最近所做的一項民調中民調機構將國會支持率與一些令人不快的事物比較調查發現，事實上，國會支持率比蟑螂蝨子、五分錢樂團根管治療和唐納．川普還糟（笑聲）但別急，好消息是至少勝過製毒實驗室和淋病（笑聲）問題大了，伙伴們 因此這讓我思考，到底是怎麼回事？我眼前的實驗室我眼前的民主實驗室到底怎麼了？到底有哪些政策法規真的能引發變化的政策曾經獲得兩黨支持？因此，如果我問大家，例如歐巴馬政府有哪些政策曾導致整個國家產生巨大變化你們會說什麼？你們或許會說歐巴馬健保法案除了那些非自願的改變就我們所知，只有半數州贊成你們或許會說經濟復甦法案，但那不需要改變政策造成大規模變化的政策是「邁向巔峰」（Race to the Top）教育政策為什麼？政府提供45億美元資金讓全國州長爭取48名州長參與競爭說服48個州議會從根本提升高中生素質使他們全都參與大學預備課程48州紛紛響應，從基層制定國家能源（訂正：教育）政策 因此我想，好，為何我們不如法炮製制訂潔淨能源的「邁向巔峰」政策？因為話說回來，如果觀察整體局勢過去 8 年中，1.6 兆美元的潔淨能源投資來自全球私營機構每一塊美元都代表一份工作這些工作流向何方？好，流向擁有政策的地方，例如中國事實上，我曾經去中國，觀察他們的做法他們為我們的代表團舉行盛大表演某場演出時，我站在房間後方站在一名中國官員身旁我們觀賞演出時，他說「所以，州長，妳認為美國何時能制定出國家能源政策？」我說，「天啊 － 國會、僵局，誰知道？」 他的反應是 － 像這樣，然後說「慢慢來」因為他們視我們的消極為他們的機會 因此，如果我們決定替全國州長發起一項競爭參與這場競爭的代價相當於兩黨於國會批准「邁向巔峰」教育政策的金額，45億美元聽起來似乎是筆鉅款，但事實上少於聯邦政府開銷的千分之一不過是聯邦預算的零頭但參與這場競爭的代價可說符合總統的目標他希望國會於2030年達成採用 80 % 潔淨能源的目標換句話說，到了2030年你使用的能源必須有 80 % 來自潔淨能源為何不要求全國各州共襄盛舉？想像一下可能發生的情況因為每個地區都能提供某些資源不妨以愛荷華州和俄亥俄州為例 －－順帶一提，這是兩大政治關鍵州 －－兩位州長會說我們將領頭生產風力渦輪機和風力或以太陽能州、陽光地帶為例他們將成為替國家生產太陽能的州也許Jerry Brown（加州州長）會說，「好，我會在加州」「建立產業集群」「生產太陽能板」「這樣我們就不需向中國採購」「而向美國採購」事實上，全國各地都能如法炮製如你們所知全國各地都有生產太陽能和風力的機會事實上，如果以上方的北部各州為例西側區域可生產地熱或考慮德州的情況他們可領頭建設智慧電網中部及東部各州擁有樹林和閒置農地，他們或許會說我們將領頭生產生質燃料東北各州會說，我們將領頭解決能源效率問題東部沿岸各州會說，我們將領頭建設海上風力發電廠或考慮密西根州的情況，我們可領頭生產電動車供電裝置，例如鋰電池每個地區都能提供某些資源如果發起一項競爭有利於各州，亦有利於聯邦它將獲得支持，甚至可能獲得德州和南卡羅萊納州的支持這兩州並未支持「邁向巔峰」教育政策這項競爭甚至可能獲得他們的支持，為什麼？因為共和黨和民主黨州長都喜歡剪綵我們希望引入就業機會，剛剛只是說說罷了這將促進各州的創新在這些民主實驗室 現在，任何關注當前政治局勢的人或許會說「嗯，很棒的主意，但可行嗎？」「讓國會將45億美元納入預算審查？」「他們一毛也不會同意」因此你可以等待國會審查但必定會十分不耐煩或者，你可以採取不同做法，我們可以繞過國會繞過國會假設我們替州長發起由私營機構提供的競爭？如果某些擁有高淨值資產的公司和個人此時剛好在TED現場，決定攜手合作，只要其中幾位建立提供給州長的全國性競爭發起「邁向巔峰」競爭觀察這些州長的反應？如果這一切全都從TED現場開始？如果在座各位想出如何打破僵局替美國創造高薪工作－（掌聲）提出國家能源政策從基層建立國家能源政策？ 因為，親愛的TED會員們如果你們像我一樣沒耐心你們知道我們的經濟競爭對手其他對手國已加入這場競爭分食我們的工作機會我們可以選擇是否加入這場競爭我們可以選擇旁觀或加入戰局我不知道你們的想法但我寧可加入其中 十分感謝（掌聲）
