Talk	en	zh-tw
jenna_mccarthy_what_you_don_t_know_about_marriage	"Every year in the United States alone, 2,077,000 couples make a legal and spiritual decision to spend the rest of their lives together — (Laughter) And not to have sex with anyone else. Ever. He buys a ring, she buys a dress. They go shopping for all sorts of things. She takes him to Arthur Murray for ballroom-dancing lessons. And the big day comes. And they'll stand before God and family and some guy her dad once did business with, and they'll vow that nothing — not abject poverty, not life-threatening illness, not complete and utter misery — will ever put the tiniest damper on their eternal love and devotion. (Laughter) These optimistic young bastards promise to honor and cherish each other through hot flashes and midlife crises and a cumulative 50-pound weight gain, until that far-off day, when one of them is finally able to rest in peace. (Laughter) You know, because they can't hear the snoring anymore. And then they'll get stupid drunk and smash cake in each other's faces and do the Macarena. And we'll be there, showering them with towels and toasters and drinking their free booze and throwing birdseed at them every single time ... even though we know, statistically, half of them will be divorced within a decade. (Laughter) Of course, the other half won't, right? They'll keep forgetting anniversaries and arguing about where to spend holidays and debating — (Laughter) Which way the toilet paper should come off of the roll. And some of them will even still be enjoying each other's company when neither of them can chew solid food anymore. And researchers want to know why. I mean, look — it doesn't take a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to figure out what makes a marriage not work: disrespect, boredom, too much time on Facebook, having sex with other people. But you can have the exact opposite of all of those things — respect, excitement, a broken Internet connection, mind-numbing monogamy — and the thing still can go to hell in a handbasket. So, what's going on when it doesn't? What do the folks who make it all the way to side-by-side burial plots have in common? What are they doing right? What can we learn from them? And if you're still happily sleeping solo, why should you stop what you're doing and make it your life's work to find that one special person that you can annoy for the rest of your life? Well, researchers spend billions of your tax dollars trying to figure that out. They stalk blissful couples and study their every move and mannerism. And they try to pinpoint what it is that sets them apart from their miserable neighbors and friends. And it turns out, the success stories share a few similarities, beyond that they don't have sex with other people. For instance, in the happiest marriages, the wife is thinner and better-looking than the husband. (Laughter) Obvious. Right? It's obvious that this leads to marital bliss, because women — we care a great deal about being thin and good-looking, whereas men mostly care about sex, ideally, with women who are thinner and better looking than they are. The beauty of this research, though, is that no one is suggesting that women have to be thin to be happy. We just have to be thinner than our partners. So instead of all that laborious dieting and exercising, we just need to wait for them to get fat — (Laughter) Maybe bake a few pies. This is good information to have, and it's not that complicated. (Laughter) Research also suggests that the happiest couples are the ones that focus on the positives. For example: the happy wife. Instead of pointing out her husband's growing gut or suggesting he go for a run, she might say, ""Wow, honey, thank you for going out of your way to make me relatively thinner."" (Laughter) These are couples who can find good in any situation. ""Yeah, it was devastating when we lost everything in that fire. But it's kind of nice sleeping out here under the stars. And it's a good thing you've got all that body fat to keep us warm."" (Laughter) One of my favorite studies found that the more willing a husband is to do housework, the more attractive his wife will find him. Because we needed a study to tell us this. (Laughter) But here's what's going on here. The more attractive she finds him, the more sex they have; the more sex they have, the nicer he is to her; the nicer he is to her, the less she nags him about leaving wet towels on the bed, and ultimately, they live happily ever after. In other words, men, you might want to pick it up a notch in the domestic department. Here's an interesting one. One study found that people who smile in childhood photographs are less likely to get a divorce. This is an actual study, and let me clarify: the researchers were not looking at documented self-reports of childhood happiness, or even studying old journals. The data were based entirely on whether people looked happy in these early pictures. Now, I don't know how old all of you are, but when I was a kid, your parents took pictures with a special kind of camera that held something called ""film."" And, by God, film was expensive. They didn't take 300 shots of you in that rapid-fire digital video mode and then pick out the nicest, smiliest one for the Christmas card. Oh, no. They dressed you up, they lined you up, and you smiled for the fucking camera like they told you to or you could kiss your birthday party goodbye. But still, I have a huge pile of fake happy childhood pictures and I'm glad they make me less likely than some people to get a divorce. So, what else can you do to safeguard your marriage? Do not win an Oscar for best actress. (Laughter) I'm serious. Bettie Davis, Joan Crawford, Halle Berry, Hilary Swank, Sandra Bullock, Reese Witherspoon — all of them single, soon after taking home that statue. They actually call it the Oscar curse. It is the marriage kiss of death and something that should be avoided. And it's not just successfully starring in films that's dangerous. It turns out, merely watching a romantic comedy causes relationship satisfaction to plummet. (Laughter) Apparently, the bitter realization that maybe it could happen to us, but it obviously hasn't and it probably never will, makes our lives seem unbearably grim in comparison. And theoretically, I suppose if we opt for a film where someone gets brutally murdered or dies in a fiery car crash, we are more likely to walk out of that theater feeling like we've got it pretty good. (Laughter) Drinking alcohol, it seems, is bad for your marriage. Yeah. I can't tell you anymore about that one because I stopped reading it at the headline. But here's a scary one: divorce is contagious. That's right, when you have a close couple friend split up, it increases your chances of getting a divorce by 75 percent. Now, I have to say, I don't get this one at all. My husband and I have watched quite a few friends divide their assets and then struggle with being our age and single in an age of sexting and Viagra and eHarmony. And I'm thinking they've done more for my marriage than a lifetime of therapy ever could. So now you may be wondering: Why does anyone get married ever? Well, the US federal government counts more than a thousand legal benefits to being someone's spouse. A list that includes visitation rights in jail, but hopefully, you'll never need that one. But beyond the profound federal perks, married people make more money. We're healthier, physically and emotionally. We produce happier, more stable and more successful kids. We have more sex than our supposedly swinging single friends, believe it or not. We even live longer, which is a pretty compelling argument for marrying someone you like a lot in the first place. (Laughter) Now, if you're not currently experiencing the joy of the joint tax return, I can't tell you how to find a chore-loving person of the approximately ideal size and attractiveness, who prefers horror movies and doesn't have a lot of friends hovering on the brink of divorce, but I can only encourage you to try, because the benefits, as I've pointed out, are significant. The bottom line is: whether you're in it or you're searching for it, I believe marriage is an institution worth pursuing and protecting. So I hope you'll use the information I've given you today to weigh your personal strengths against your own risk factors. For instance, in my marriage, I'd say I'm doing OK. One the one hand, I have a husband who's annoyingly lean and incredibly handsome. So I'm obviously going to need fatten him up. And like I said, we have those divorced friends who may secretly or subconsciously be trying to break us up. So we have to keep an eye on that. And we do like a cocktail or two. On the other hand, I have the fake happy picture thing. And also, my husband does a lot around the house, and would happily never see another romantic comedy as long as he lives. So I've got all those things going for me. But just in case, I plan to work extra hard to not win an Oscar anytime soon. And for the good of your relationships, I would encourage you to do the same. I'll see you at the bar. (Laughter) (Applause)"	"在美國，每年有207萬7千對新人，許下神聖且合法的承諾要與另一半攜手共度他們往後的人生...(笑聲)並且承諾絕對不會跟任何其他的人有染。絕對不會。他會買下婚戒，她會挑選好婚紗，兩人一起購物一起做任何事情。她也會帶著他去學跳愛的雙人舞。然後當那重大的日子來到，他們會站在上帝，親友，家人還有一些她父親生意夥伴的面前，對眾人起誓，不計較貧困，任何健康疾病，任何不幸災難，都改變不了兩人之間永恆不變的愛與承諾。 (笑聲) 這些天真的年輕小鬼們信誓旦旦會珍惜彼此一輩子，從熱戀期到中年危機，體重默默增加了50磅，一直到很久後的某一天，其中的一個人，終於，安詳的睡去。你知道的，因為他們終於不用聽到對方的鼾聲了。他們還會在婚禮那天一起發酒瘋然後用蛋糕砸對方的臉，而我們這些朋友會在一旁，拉禮炮，開香檳，享受免費的喜酒，還有祝福他們夫妻百年好合，一次次的重複。雖然，我們都心知肚明，經過統計，這些夫妻們有一半會在十年內離婚。 (笑聲) 當然，還是有半數的夫妻沒有離婚，對吧?他們只是會不停的忘記結婚紀念日，為了要去哪度假起爭執，還有激烈的辯論，到底，廁所的衛生紙捲應該要向內還是向外。然而，還是有一小部分的夫妻會持續的享受彼此的陪伴，即使髮白齒搖仍舊鶼鰈情深。 研究員們想知道他們是如何辦到的。你也知道，用不著大費周章的做科學考證我們也知道什麼會使婚姻出現問題。例如彼此不尊重，厭倦對方，成天上網玩臉書，或者是有了外遇。即使是一些完全相反的例子，彼此尊重，生活有驚喜，家裡沒網路，這些徹底的遵守一夫一妻制的婚姻，仍舊會因為雞毛蒜皮的小事而破裂。所以說，那些成功的幸福婚姻，到底是怎麼維繫的?這些白頭到老的夫妻們有什麼共同點?他們都是怎麼做的?我們要如何向他們學習?甚至，如果你是個快樂的單身貴族，為什麼要放棄既有的生活，自討苦吃的去找一個所謂的特別的人，來讓你下半輩子都不得安寧? 多虧你們的納稅錢，研究員們得以去找出原因。他們像偵探一樣跟蹤那些幸福小夫妻，觀察他們的一舉一動，特殊癖好，試著找出哪些關鍵原因讓他們得以與眾不同不被身邊朋友與鄰居的悲劇同化。研究結果發現，這些幸福的愛情故事，都存在著一些共同點，不單單只是不偷吃沒亂來。 舉例來說，其中一個共同點就是太太的身材還有外型保持的比先生好。(笑聲)挺能理解的吧。這樣的現象在幸福婚姻中屢見不鮮，原因很簡單，因為我們女人，就是愛漂亮，然後男人成天想著的就是性，男人對性的最高理想，就是對象能比他們自己的外型更正點。這個研究的可貴之處在於，我們女人其實不用為了討好另一半而拼命減肥，只要維持著比我們的先生瘦一點就好。所以說，與其耗費心神的去節食或上健身房，我們只需要讓老公變胖一點就好啦。或許多烤兩塊派。這對我們女人來說是個天大的好消息，而且可以輕鬆上手。 另外，研究員們還說，最快樂的夫妻們，都懂得善用正面思考。例如，一個快樂的太太，與其去酸丈夫的啤酒肚有多大，或去催促對方慢跑減肥，她可以聰明的說，""哇，親愛的你好貼心唷，辛苦的把肚子養大，這樣我站在旁邊就顯得比較瘦囉！""這樣的小倆口懂得樂觀地去發掘生活中美好的一面。""是的，這的確令人沮喪，那場大火把我們的所有家當都燒光了。但能因此有機會睡在星光下也挺不賴的，而且也幸好你有好好保存體脂肪，這樣抱著你就不怕冷囉。"" 我最喜歡的研究報告之一就是越樂意幫忙做家事的丈夫在妻子眼裡就越迷人。我們就是需要一個這樣的研究。這整個流程就是，當她越覺得丈夫迷人，她就越願意有性愛；他們越享受性愛，他就對妻子越好；而他對她越好，她就越少去抱怨他亂丟臭襪子，然後良性循環下，他們過著幸福快樂的日子。換句話說，男人你們該把眼光拉長好好當家裡的廁所所長。 這裡有個有趣的例子，研究指出，在童年相片裡露出笑容的人，比較不會離婚。這個研究是有根據的，先澄清一下，這個研究不是根據你自己精挑細選的歡樂相簿，也不是調查你的舊日記，整個數據是純粹取決於你的幼年照片看起來快樂不快樂。我不太清楚各位的年齡，但就我那個年代，父母們拍照必須拿一種很特殊的相機，裡面塞著一個叫底片的東西，這個底片沖洗是要花大錢的，他們不可能開啟連拍功能，隨便亂拍個300張，然後挑選笑容最燦爛的來當聖誕卡。嘖嘖嘖，沒這麼好康。我們整裝排排站，攝影師說笑我們就得笑，然後喀嚓一聲，派對結束。但是，我仍舊有很多裂嘴大笑的童年照片，非常慶幸它們讓我減少了離婚的機率。 所以，我們還能做些什麼來捍衛幸福婚姻?千萬不要，贏得奧斯卡最佳女演員獎。(笑聲)我是很正經的。貝蒂戴維斯，珍克勞馥，荷莉貝瑞，希拉莉史旺，珊卓布拉克，瑞絲薇絲朋，她們得到奧斯卡獎後馬上就變單身了。這是小金人的詛咒，婚姻的死亡之吻，我們該全力避免得到這個獎。 而且危險的不只是當女主角，連隨便看個浪漫喜劇片都導致婚姻幸福指數下降！(笑聲)顯然的，很殘酷的事實就是我們本來有機會體驗浪漫情節，但身邊那位讓一切都變成不可能了。浪漫喜劇讓我們的生活相對顯得慘不忍睹。所以理論上來說，我們該反向操作，選看演員都很不幸被謀殺的電影，或是被車撞，然後車子還爆炸，這樣我們離開戲院時，會感到自己的人生還是有光明的。 喝酒，好像也會對婚姻有負面影響。就這樣，我沒有辦法多著墨，因為我讀完這標題就不想看下去了。但是接下來這個就驚悚了：離婚是會傳染的。是的，當你有個好朋友離婚了，你自己也離婚的機率就提高了百分之七十五。我必須說，我不太贊成這一點。我跟我先生身邊有許多朋友離婚分家，然後很辛苦的在不惑之齡過單身生活，仰賴威而鋼或是情色電話還有網路交友。我暗自慶幸擁有這些朋友借鏡，這比婚姻輔導更有威信力。 現在，你們大概在想，為什麼人要結婚?關於這點，美國政府列出上千條合法益處保障婚姻關係，其中包括合法探監權。希望你們不太需要用到這條。除了這些聯邦特權，已婚的夫婦有更好的收入，更健康的身體，更開朗的心胸。我們能養出更快樂，更穩定且更成功的下一代。不管你們相不相信，我們比那些單身朋友們享受更多性愛。我們甚至活得更久，這是個挺誘人的好處，代價就只是去跟一個你本來就很喜歡的人結婚。 如果你還沒有親身體會過夫妻共同節稅的快感，我也無法教你該如何找到一個喜歡做家事，身材適中，臉蛋標緻，朋友不多，喜歡恐怖片，又剛好正要離婚的對象。但我可以鼓勵你去開始尋找，因為婚姻生活的種種好處，是超乎想像的。無論已婚未婚，你該了解的是結婚就像是合開一間公司，需要雙方去經營與維護。我希望你們能善用今天得到的情報來幫助你們衡量你們婚姻的優勢與劣勢。 譬如說，我的婚姻生活目前還算過得去。我婚姻的劣勢就是，我有個身材很健美的老公還很不幸的長得很帥，所以顯然我必須加把勁養肥他。而且我們身邊有很多離婚的朋友或許會下意識的導致我們分手。我們必須留心這點。而且我們享受喝點小酒。而我的優勢，就是那些笑得很假的童年相片。喔，還有我的老公幫忙做很多家事，而且在我們有生之年都會避免去看那些浪漫愛情片。 所以這就是我個人的案例。另外，小心起見，我真的很努力的盡量不要贏得奧斯卡獎。為了你們好，我建議你們也盡量避免得獎。我們等下交誼廳見囉。 (掌聲)"
