Talk	en	zh-tw
jennifer_pahlka_coding_a_better_government	"So a couple of years ago I started a program to try to get the rockstar tech and design people to take a year off and work in the one environment that represents pretty much everything they're supposed to hate; we have them work in government. The program is called Code for America, and it's a little bit like a Peace Corps for geeks. We select a few fellows every year and we have them work with city governments. Instead of sending them off into the Third World, we send them into the wilds of City Hall. And there they make great apps, they work with city staffers. But really what they're doing is they're showing what's possible with technology today. So meet Al. Al is a fire hydrant in the city of Boston. Here it kind of looks like he's looking for a date, but what he's really looking for is for someone to shovel him out when he gets snowed in, because he knows he's not very good at fighting fires when he's covered in four feet of snow. Now how did he come to be looking for help in this very unique manner? We had a team of fellows in Boston last year through the Code for America program. They were there in February, and it snowed a lot in February last year. And they noticed that the city never gets to digging out these fire hydrants. But one fellow in particular, a guy named Erik Michaels-Ober, noticed something else, and that's that citizens are shoveling out sidewalks right in front of these things. So he did what any good developer would do, he wrote an app. It's a cute little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant. So you agree to dig it out when it snows. If you do, you get to name it, and he called the first one Al. And if you don't, someone can steal it from you. So it's got cute little game dynamics on it. This is a modest little app. It's probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year. But it's doing something that no other government technology does. It's spreading virally. There's a guy in the I.T. department of the City of Honolulu who saw this app and realized that he could use it, not for snow, but to get citizens to adopt tsunami sirens. It's very important that these tsunami sirens work, but people steal the batteries out of them. So he's getting citizens to check on them. And then Seattle decided to use it to get citizens to clear out clogged storm drains. And Chicago just rolled it out to get people to sign up to shovel sidewalks when it snows. So we now know of nine cities that are planning to use this. And this has spread just frictionlessly, organically, naturally. If you know anything about government technology, you know that this isn't how it normally goes. Procuring software usually takes a couple of years. We had a team that worked on a project in Boston last year that took three people about two and a half months. It was a way that parents could figure out which were the right public schools for their kids. We were told afterward that if that had gone through normal channels, it would have taken at least two years and it would have cost about two million dollars. And that's nothing. There is one project in the California court system right now that so far cost taxpayers two billion dollars, and it doesn't work. And there are projects like this at every level of government. So an app that takes a couple of days to write and then spreads virally, that's sort of a shot across the bow to the institution of government. It suggests how government could work better — not more like a private company, as many people think it should. And not even like a tech company, but more like the Internet itself. And that means permissionless, it means open, it means generative. And that's important. But what's more important about this app is that it represents how a new generation is tackling the problem of government — not as the problem of an ossified institution, but as a problem of collective action. And that's great news, because, it turns out, we're very good at collective action with digital technology. Now there's a very large community of people that are building the tools that we need to do things together effectively. It's not just Code for America fellows, there are hundreds of people all over the country that are standing and writing civic apps every day in their own communities. They haven't given up on government. They are frustrated as hell with it, but they're not complaining about it, they're fixing it. And these folks know something that we've lost sight of. And that's that when you strip away all your feelings about politics and the line at the DMV and all those other things that we're really mad about, government is, at its core, in the words of Tim O'Reilly, ""What we do together that we can't do alone."" Now a lot of people have given up on government. And if you're one of those people, I would ask that you reconsider, because things are changing. Politics is not changing; government is changing. And because government ultimately derives its power from us — remember ""We the people?"" — how we think about it is going to effect how that change happens. Now I didn't know very much about government when I started this program. And like a lot of people, I thought government was basically about getting people elected to office. Well after two years, I've come to the conclusion that, especially local government, is about opossums. This is the call center for the services and information line. It's generally where you will get if you call 311 in your city. If you should ever have the chance to staff your city's call center, as our fellow Scott Silverman did as part of the program — in fact, they all do that — you will find that people call government with a very wide range of issues, including having an opossum stuck in your house. So Scott gets this call. He types ""Opossum"" into this official knowledge base. He doesn't really come up with anything. He starts with animal control. And finally, he says, ""Look, can you just open all the doors to your house and play music really loud and see if the thing leaves?"" So that worked. So booya for Scott. But that wasn't the end of the opossums. Boston doesn't just have a call center. It has an app, a Web and mobile app, called Citizens Connect. Now we didn't write this app. This is the work of the very smart people at the Office of New Urban Mechanics in Boston. So one day — this is an actual report — this came in: ""Opossum in my trashcan. Can't tell if it's dead. How do I get this removed?"" But what happens with Citizens Connect is different. So Scott was speaking person-to-person. But on Citizens Connect everything is public, so everybody can see this. And in this case, a neighbor saw it. And the next report we got said, ""I walked over to this location, found the trashcan behind the house. Opossum? Check. Living? Yep. Turned trashcan on its side. Walked home. Goodnight sweet opossum."" (Laughter) Pretty simple. So this is great. This is the digital meeting the physical. And it's also a great example of government getting in on the crowd-sourcing game. But it's also a great example of government as a platform. And I don't mean necessarily a technological definition of platform here. I'm just talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others. So one citizen helped another citizen, but government played a key role here. It connected those two people. And it could have connected them with government services if they'd been needed, but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services. When one neighbor helps another, we strengthen our communities. We call animal control, it just costs a lot of money. Now one of the important things we need to think about government is that it's not the same thing as politics. And most people get that, but they think that one is the input to the other. That our input to the system of government is voting. Now how many times have we elected a political leader — and sometimes we spend a lot of energy getting a new political leader elected — and then we sit back and we expect government to reflect our values and meet our needs, and then not that much changes? That's because government is like a vast ocean and politics is the six-inch layer on top. And what's under that is what we call bureaucracy. And we say that word with such contempt. But it's that contempt that keeps this thing that we own and we pay for as something that's working against us, this other thing, and then we're disempowering ourselves. People seem to think politics is sexy. If we want this institution to work for us, we're going to have to make bureaucracy sexy. Because that's where the real work of government happens. We have to engage with the machinery of government. So that's OccupytheSEC movement has done. Have you seen these guys? It's a group of concerned citizens that have written a very detailed 325-page report that's a response to the SEC's request for comment on the Financial Reform Bill. That's not being politically active, that's being bureaucratically active. Now for those of us who've given up on government, it's time that we asked ourselves about the world that we want to leave for our children. You have to see the enormous challenges that they're going to face. Do we really think we're going to get where we need to go without fixing the one institution that can act on behalf of all of us? We can't do without government, but we do need it to be more effective. The good news is that technology is making it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually scale by strengthening civil society. And there's a generation out there that's grown up on the Internet, and they know that it's not that hard to do things together, you just have to architect the systems the right way. Now the average age of our fellows is 28, so I am, begrudgingly, almost a generation older than most of them. This is a generation that's grown up taking their voices pretty much for granted. They're not fighting that battle that we're all fighting about who gets to speak; they all get to speak. They can express their opinion on any channel at any time, and they do. So when they're faced with the problem of government, they don't care as much about using their voices. They're using their hands. They're using their hands to write applications that make government work better. And those applications let us use our hands to make our communities better. That could be shoveling out a hydrant, pulling a weed, turning over a garbage can with an opossum in it. And certainly, we could have been shoveling out those fire hydrants all along, and many people do. But these apps are like little digital reminders that we're not just consumers, and we're not just consumers of government, putting in our taxes and getting back services. We're more than that, we're citizens. And we're not going to fix government until we fix citizenship. So the question I have for all of you here: When it comes to the big, important things that we need to do together, all of us together, are we just going to be a crowd of voices, or are we also going to be a crowd of hands? Thank you. (Applause)"	"幾年前我發起一項計畫要超級科技人才和明星設計師休假一年在另一個環境工作這個環境幾乎代表了他們所痛恨的每一樣東西就是我們的政府這個計畫叫做美國程式碼類似和平部隊 不過隊員都是怪咖我們每年選擇幾個人要他們替市政府工作他們沒被送去第三世界反而進入了市政廳的險惡叢林他們在那裡做出超讚的應用程式 和市府職員一起工作但真正重要的是 他們展現出一種可能性當今科技的可能性 這是艾爾艾爾是波士頓市裡的消防栓之一照片裡它看起來有點像想找個伴但其實它真正想要的是有人能在它被大雪掩埋時 把它挖出來因為它知道 儘管它有打火英雄的潛力當被埋在四呎深的雪中時 也無用武之地那它現在這個德性要怎麼尋求幫助？我們去年在波士頓組了一支團隊是美國程式碼(Code for America)計畫工作的一環去年二月波士頓大雪紛飛時 這支團隊就在那裡他們注意到市政府從未採取行動把這些消防栓挖出來其中一位隊員名叫艾瑞克‧麥克歐寶注意到其他事情就是市民會剷除人行道上的積雪把消防栓前面的地面清出來所以他就做了一位優秀開發員會做的事他寫了一個應用程式 一個很可愛的程式 讓你可以認養某個消防栓表示當它被雪埋起來時 你願意把它挖出來如果你願意 就可以替它取名字他就把第一個消防栓命名為艾爾如果你不願意 別人就可以把它偷走因此這個程式也帶點遊戲的趣味它是一個很普通的小應用程式可能是這個團隊去年寫的21個應用程式中最小的但是它的功用卻在其他政府科技中獨樹一格它像病毒一樣四處傳播 檀香山市的IT部門有個員工看到這個應用程式發現它大有用處，而不只是用在積雪而是讓市民認養海嘯警報器這些海嘯警報器非常重要 一定要運作正常但是有人會偷走機器中的電池因此他讓市民去查看電池接著西雅圖決定用這個程式讓市民清理堵塞的排水孔然後芝加哥才剛採用這個程式讓市民登記在下雪時把人行道清出來因此我們已知有九個城市正計畫要利用這個應用程式它暢行無阻地四處傳播自然而然 充滿生氣 如果你對政府科技有一點概念就會知道它通常不是這麼運作的開發軟體通常要花一兩年我們有個團隊去年在波士頓進行一項計畫團隊共三人 花了兩個半月的時間這個計畫是讓家長能找出哪一所公立學校適合他們的小孩我們後來得知 如果是依照正常的管道可能會需要至少兩年花費大約200萬美金這還不算什麼加州法庭系統裡有一項計畫到目前為止已經讓納稅人付了20億元但是它一點用也沒有這種計畫充斥在各階層的政府 因此只要花幾天就可以寫出來的應用程式像病毒一樣四散對政府機構而言就像平地一聲雷它建議政府怎樣才能更有效地運作不是像許多人認為的要更像私人企業或甚至是科技公司而是要更像網路本身意思是說不需要經過誰的批准一個開放 具有生產力的環境這一點很重要但更重要的是 這個應用程式代表了新的世代如何探究政府問題的解決方式解決問題不再只靠僵化的體制而是集體行動這真是大好消息因為我們發現 我們其實善於集體行動有了數位科技就更容易 現今有一大群人在製造我們需要的工具讓合作可以更有效不只是美國程式碼(Code for America)的成員全國各地有上百人不斷地撰寫市民用的應用程式每天都對自己的社區做出貢獻他們沒有放棄政府雖然他們對於政府非常失望但並沒有抱怨連連而是設法改正它這些人知道的某些事情是我們看不到的你得要擺脫所有關於政治和在監理處大排長龍時的情緒以及所有其他讓人火冒三丈的事情那時你就會看到 政府的核心就像提姆‧奧萊理所說的是「合眾人之力完成個人力有未逮之事」 現今有許多人已經對政府不抱希望如果你是其中之一我要請你再好好考慮因為如今時代正在改變政治沒有改變但政府正在改頭換面因為政府得其權利於人民記得「民治」的民就是我們嗎？我們對政府的觀感將影響改變發生的方式 我剛發起計畫時 對政府所知不多和許多人一樣我以為政府基本上就是選出官員擔任公職兩年後 我得到結論政府 尤其是地方政府就是在管負鼠(註：一種約家貓大小的有袋動物) 這是服務資訊專線的客服中心基本上就是你打311會接到的地方如果你有機會在你住的城市的客服中心工作就像我們的史考特‧斯維曼參與計畫時所做的一樣其實他們都有去客服中心就會發現 大家打電話給政府原因千奇百怪包括有負鼠在屋裡時也打所以史考特接到這通電話在官方知識庫裡輸入「負鼠」不過沒有查到什麼 接著他打給動物管理中心最後他說：「聽著 你去把屋裡的門通通打開把音樂開大聲一點看看牠會不會離開？」這招成功了 有你的 史考特但負鼠的故事還沒完 波士頓不只有客服中心還有應用程式 網路和行動應用程式叫做「市民逗陣來」這個程式不是我們寫的這是聰明人的傑作波士頓新都市技術部的人寫的跟各位分享一則真實報導 某天有一則訊息：「我家垃圾桶裡有負鼠 不知道是死的還活的要怎麼把牠弄出去？」有了""市民逗陣來"" 一切大不相同史考特的例子 是一對一交談但""市民逗陣來""上所有的資訊都是公開的因此每個人都看得見剛剛那則訊息 有個鄰居看到了然後我們看到的下一則訊息「我走到那個地方在屋子後面找到垃圾桶有沒有負鼠？有 活的嗎？是的把垃圾桶放倒 走回家晚安 小負鼠」 (笑聲) 很簡單真了不起 這是數位與真實世界的交會也是絕佳的例子說明政府如何善用群眾這項資源這也是政府發揮平台功能的良好示範我說的不完全是技術定義上的平台我說的只是給人們的舞台讓大家可以自助也助人因此 市民甲幫助市民乙政府也在其中扮演關鍵角色連接起這兩個人政府也可以在人們有需要時 引導他們求助於官方服務但是跟鄰居相比 鄰居又快又便宜是更好的替代方案左鄰右舍互相幫助可以強化社區打電話給動物中心—只會多人民的納稅錢 不過 談到政府時 有件事情要銘記在心就是政府和政治是兩回事大部分人都了解這一點但他們認為一個是雞 一個是蛋我們對政府體系的參與就是投票我們是不是都參與過好多次選舉有時候花了好大一番功夫選出一個新的官員然後我們就坐在那期望政府反映我們的價值 達成我們的需求結果改變的卻不多？因為政府就像個巨大的海洋政治只是表層六英吋的水在表層之下是我們所謂的官僚制度我們用這個詞時 總帶著輕蔑但就是這種輕蔑讓這個為我們所有我們繳稅供養的東西一直跟我們作對 變成另一種東西是我們讓自己變得無力 人們似乎覺得政治很性感如果我們要讓政府為民服務就得把官僚制度變得性感因為它是政府實際工作進行的地方我們必須參與政府機器的運作這就是佔領華爾街運動所做的有看到這些人嗎？他們是一群憂慮的市民寫了一份非常詳細長達325頁的報告回應證券交易委員會所提出對金融改革法案所做的回應這並不是積極參予政治而是積極參予官僚制度 那些已經放棄政府的人現在該問問自己想留給後代子孫怎樣的世界你必須看到那些巨大的後代必須面對的挑戰難道我們真的認為可以達成自己的期待即使不改善這個唯一的機構這個能夠代表眾人行動的機構？沒有政府 無事可成但政府必須更有效率幸好 科技正開啟新的可能性徹底重整政府的功能讓效能確實擴大方法是強化公民社會現在的新世代 是跟著網路長大的他們知道一同參予並不難只要有正確的系統架構就行 和我同代的人現在平均是28歲因此雖然我不想承認但我幾乎已經是上一個世代的人這個世代把發聲的權利視為理所當然他們沒有經歷過我們的奮戰搶奪發言權他們都有發言權可以表達自己的意見不受管道與時間的限制他們也在這麼做所以面對政府的問題他們並不那麼在乎發聲的權利他們用的是雙手用雙手撰寫程式 讓政府運作得更順暢 這些應用程式讓我們用自己的雙手改善我們的社區可能是把消防栓挖出來 或是除草或是把裡面有負鼠的垃圾桶放倒當然 我們一直都有在挖消防栓許多人都是如此但是這些應用程式就像小小的數位記號提醒我們 我們不只是消費者也不只是政府服務的對象繳稅以享有服務不只是這樣我們是公民如果我們要改善政府就要先修正公民精神 因此我留給各位的問題是當我們面對重大 重要的事情需要同心協力群策群力時我們是一堆只會出一張嘴的鄉民還是我們也可以真的有所作為？ 謝謝各位 (掌聲)"
