Talk	en	zh-tw
jennifer_lin_improvs_piano_magic	"(Music) (Music ends) (Applause) Thank you! (Applause continues) Thank you very much. Like the speaker before me — I am a TED virgin, I guess. I'm also the first time here, and ... (Laughter) I don't know what to say! (Applause) I'm really happy that Mr. Anderson invited me. I'm really grateful that I get a chance to play for everyone. And the song that I just played was by Josef Hofmann. It's called ""Kaleidoscope."" And Hofmann is a Polish pianist and composer of the late 19th century, and he's widely considered one of the greatest pianists of all time. I have another piece that I'd like to play for you. It's called ""Abegg Variations,"" by Robert Schumann, a German 19th-century composer. The name ""Abegg"" is actually A-B-E-G-G, and that's the main theme in the melody. (Plays the notes A, B, E, G and G) That comes from the last name of one of Schumann's female friends. (Laughter) But he wrote that for his wife. (Laughter) So actually, if you listen carefully, there are supposed to be five variations on this Abegg theme. It's written around 1834, so even though it's old, I hope you'll like it. (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) Now comes the part that I hate. Well, because Mr. Anderson told me that this session is called ""Sync and Flow,"" I was wondering, ""What do I know that these geniuses don't?"" (Laughter) So, I'll talk about musical composition, even though I don't know where to start. How do I compose? I think Yamaha does a really good job of teaching us how to compose. What I do first is, I make a lot of little musical ideas you can just improvise here at the piano — and I choose one of those to become my main theme, my main melody, like the Abegg that you just heard. And once I choose my main theme, I have to decide: Out of all the styles in music, what kind of style do I want? And this year, I composed a Romantic style. So for inspiration, I listened to Liszt and Tchaikovsky and all the great Romantic composers. Next, I make the structure of the entire piece with my teachers. They help me plan out the whole piece. And then the hard part is filling it in with musical ideas, because then you have to think. (Laughter) And then, when the piece takes somewhat of a solified form — solidified, excuse me — solidified form, you're supposed to actually polish the piece, polish the details, and then polish the overall performance of the composition. And another thing that I enjoy doing is drawing. Drawing, because I like to draw, you know, Japanese anime art. I think that's a craze among teens right now. And once I realized it, there's a parallel between creating music and creating art, because for your motive, or your little initial idea for your drawing, it's your character — you want to decide who you want to draw, or if you want to draw an original character. And then you want to decide: How are you going to draw the character? Like, am I going to use one page? Am I going to draw it on the computer? Am I going to use a two-page spread like a comic book? For a more grandiose effect, I guess. And then you have to do the initial sketch of the character, which is like your structure of a piece, and then you add pen and pencil, and whatever details that you need — that's polishing the drawing. And another thing that both of these have in common is your state of mind, because I know I'm one of those teenagers that are really easily distracted. So if I'm trying to do homework and I don't feel like it, I'll try to draw or, you know, waste my time. And then what happens is, sometimes I absolutely can't draw or I can't compose at all, and then it's like there's too much on your mind. You can't focus on what you're supposed to do. And sometimes, if you manage to use your time wisely and work on it, you'll get something out of it, but it doesn't come naturally. What happens is, if something magical happens, if something natural happens to you, you're able to produce all this beautiful stuff instantly, and then that's what I consider ""flow,"" because that's when everything clicks and you're able to do anything. You feel like you're on top of your game and you can do anything you want. I'm not going to play my own composition today because, although I did finish it, it's way too long. Instead, I'd like to try something called ""improvisation."" I have here seven note cards, one with each note of the musical alphabet. And I'd like someone to come up here and choose five — anyone to come up here and choose five — and then I can make it into some sort of melody, and I'll improvise it. Wow. A volunteer, yay! (Laughter) (Applause) Jennifer Lin: Nice to meet you. Goldie Hawn: Thank you. Choose five? JL: Yes, five cards. Any five cards. GH: OK, one. JL: OK. GH: Two. JL: Yes. GH: Three. GH: Oh, D and F — too familiar. (Laughter) JL: One more. GH: OK. ""E"" for ""effort."" JL: Would you mind reading them out in the order that you chose them? GH: OK — C, G, B, A and E. JL: Thank you very much! GH: You're welcome. And what about these? JL: I won't use them. Thank you! (Applause) Now, she chose C, G, B, A, E. I'm going to try to put that in some sort of order. (Plays notes) OK, that's nice. So, I'm going to have a moment to think, and I'll try to make something out of it. (Plays the five notes) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) The next song, or the encore that I'm going to play is called ""Bumble Boogie,"" by Jack Fina. (Applause) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause)"	(掌聲) 謝謝，非常感謝！我和前一個講者一樣，是TED的新人，我第一次來到TED，不知道該講些什麼。 (掌聲) 我很高興安德生先生邀請我來，也很高興有這個機會為各位演奏。我剛才彈的曲子是由霍夫曼所作，曲名為「萬花筒(Kaleidoscope)」。霍夫曼是十九世紀末的波蘭鋼琴家兼作曲家，一般公認他是有史以來最偉大的鋼琴家之一。 我想為各位演奏另一首曲子，是由舒曼這位十九世紀德國作曲家所作的「阿貝格變奏曲(Abegg Variations)」。阿貝格的英文拼法是A-B-E-G-G，也就是這首曲子的主要旋律，同時也是舒曼某位女性朋友的姓氏。 (笑聲) 但舒曼的這首曲子是獻給他太太的。 (笑聲) 所以，如果你仔細聽，裡面應該會有五個變奏的旋律。這首曲子是在1834年左右寫的，即使年代有點久遠，還是希望各位喜歡。 (掌聲) 現在是我最不喜歡的部分，因為安德生先生告訴我這個單元是「和諧與流暢」，我就想：「我知道的事情裡，有什麼是這些天才不知道的事？」所以，我決定來談談作曲，即使我不知道要從何談起。 我怎麼作曲的？Yamaha針對作曲這方面的教學，做得很不錯。我一開始會先想一些小小的曲調片段，先在鋼琴上試彈一下，然後選定其中一個做為主旋律，就像你剛才聽到的阿貝格一樣。一旦選定了主旋律之後，我就必須決定要使用什麼樣音樂曲風來表現？今年，我選定的是浪漫曲風。為了增加靈感，我通常會聽李斯特、柴可夫斯基等浪漫曲風作曲家的作品。 接下來，我會和老師一起描繪出整個作品的架構，他們會協助我規劃整個作品，最難的部分是要填入各個曲調片段，因為這個時候就需要思考了。最後，當雛型慢慢塑造出來後，對，是雛型，接下來就進入琢磨的工作，也就是細部修改，把整首曲子仔細地琢磨一遍。 我的另一個嗜好是畫圖，我喜歡畫的是日本的動漫畫，也是目前青少年瘋狂喜愛的漫畫。後來我發現，創作音樂和創作畫作有許多相似之處，因為這二者都需要決定創作的動機和原始構想，而你也必須決定你畫中的角色，可以是一個你認識的人，也可以是一個你創造出來的人。接下來你得決定怎麼表現這個角色？像是要用一頁來畫這個角色嗎？要用電腦繪圖軟體來畫嗎？還是要像漫畫書一樣，用二頁的跨頁手法，來表現出更雄偉的效果？然後，你就得把該角色的雛型畫出來，就像是樂曲的架構一樣，最後再用筆或鉛筆描繪一下，增加細節的描寫，這就是畫作的琢磨工作。 這二者間還有一個共通點，就是創作者的心態，因為我不是—我還是個青少年，所以很容易分心，如果我不想做功課，如果我沒什麼興趣做功課，我就會畫圖來打發時間。有時我會發現，我根本畫不出來，或我根本無法作曲，就好像腦子裡塞了太多東西一樣，無法專心在自己想要做的事情上。有時候，當我想要好好利用時間來創作，就會有好的作品產出，但那可不是憑空得來的。如果有奇蹟的話，某些靈感就會自動跳出來，我就可以立刻創造出美好的作品，我覺得那就是流暢的感覺，每一個東西都到位了，可以順利創造出作品。你會覺得自己掌握了一切，你可以隨心所欲做任何事。 今天我不想彈我的創作樂曲，雖然我已經完成了，但還差得遠了。但我今天想嚐試即興創作，我這裡有七張音符卡片，每一張卡片上都有每個音符的英文字母，我想請一位來賓上來選出五張卡。有沒有要上來選五張卡？我會以選出來的五張卡編寫出旋律，即興彈奏。哇，有人自願耶！ (掌聲) 很高興認識你。 歌蒂韓：謝謝，選五張嗎？ 珍妮佛．林：對，五張卡，隨便五張。 歌蒂韓：好，一，二，三...噢，D和F，我太常用這二個字母了。 (笑聲) 珍妮佛．林：再一張。 歌蒂韓：好，就選努力的E吧！(Effort:努力) 珍妮佛．林：請你把這幾個英文字母唸出來。 歌蒂韓：好，C-G-B-A-E。 珍妮佛．林：非常謝謝你。 歌蒂韓：不客氣，那這些怎麼辦？ 珍妮佛．林：這些就用不到了，謝謝！ (掌聲) 好，她選了C-G-B-A-E，我要來把這些稍微排列組合一下，好，這樣很棒！接下來，我要用一點時間來思考，用這幾個音符來創作一首即興演奏曲。 (掌聲) 接下來，就是安可曲，我要演奏傑克．菲那所作的「瘋狂爵士(Bumble Boogie)」。 (掌聲) (掌聲)
