Talk	en	zh-tw
jennifer_doudna_we_can_now_edit_our_dna_but_let_s_do_it_wisely	"A few years ago, with my colleague, Emmanuelle Charpentier, I invented a new technology for editing genomes. It's called CRISPR-Cas9. The CRISPR technology allows scientists to make changes to the DNA in cells that could allow us to cure genetic disease. You might be interested to know that the CRISPR technology came about through a basic research project that was aimed at discovering how bacteria fight viral infections. Bacteria have to deal with viruses in their environment, and we can think about a viral infection like a ticking time bomb — a bacterium has only a few minutes to defuse the bomb before it gets destroyed. So, many bacteria have in their cells an adaptive immune system called CRISPR, that allows them to detect viral DNA and destroy it. Part of the CRISPR system is a protein called Cas9, that's able to seek out, cut and eventually degrade viral DNA in a specific way. And it was through our research to understand the activity of this protein, Cas9, that we realized that we could harness its function as a genetic engineering technology — a way for scientists to delete or insert specific bits of DNA into cells with incredible precision — that would offer opportunities to do things that really haven't been possible in the past. The CRISPR technology has already been used to change the DNA in the cells of mice and monkeys, other organisms as well. Chinese scientists showed recently that they could even use the CRISPR technology to change genes in human embryos. And scientists in Philadelphia showed they could use CRISPR to remove the DNA of an integrated HIV virus from infected human cells. The opportunity to do this kind of genome editing also raises various ethical issues that we have to consider, because this technology can be employed not only in adult cells, but also in the embryos of organisms, including our own species. And so, together with my colleagues, I've called for a global conversation about the technology that I co-invented, so that we can consider all of the ethical and societal implications of a technology like this. What I want to do now is tell you what the CRISPR technology is, what it can do, where we are today and why I think we need to take a prudent path forward in the way that we employ this technology. When viruses infect a cell, they inject their DNA. And in a bacterium, the CRISPR system allows that DNA to be plucked out of the virus, and inserted in little bits into the chromosome — the DNA of the bacterium. And these integrated bits of viral DNA get inserted at a site called CRISPR. CRISPR stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats. (Laughter) A big mouthful — you can see why we use the acronym CRISPR. It's a mechanism that allows cells to record, over time, the viruses they have been exposed to. And importantly, those bits of DNA are passed on to the cells' progeny, so cells are protected from viruses not only in one generation, but over many generations of cells. This allows the cells to keep a record of infection, and as my colleague, Blake Wiedenheft, likes to say, the CRISPR locus is effectively a genetic vaccination card in cells. Once those bits of DNA have been inserted into the bacterial chromosome, the cell then makes a little copy of a molecule called RNA, which is orange in this picture, that is an exact replicate of the viral DNA. RNA is a chemical cousin of DNA, and it allows interaction with DNA molecules that have a matching sequence. So those little bits of RNA from the CRISPR locus associate — they bind — to protein called Cas9, which is white in the picture, and form a complex that functions like a sentinel in the cell. It searches through all of the DNA in the cell, to find sites that match the sequences in the bound RNAs. And when those sites are found — as you can see here, the blue molecule is DNA — this complex associates with that DNA and allows the Cas9 cleaver to cut up the viral DNA. It makes a very precise break. So we can think of the Cas9 RNA sentinel complex like a pair of scissors that can cut DNA — it makes a double-stranded break in the DNA helix. And importantly, this complex is programmable, so it can be programmed to recognize particular DNA sequences, and make a break in the DNA at that site. As I'm going to tell you now, we recognized that that activity could be harnessed for genome engineering, to allow cells to make a very precise change to the DNA at the site where this break was introduced. That's sort of analogous to the way that we use a word-processing program to fix a typo in a document. The reason we envisioned using the CRISPR system for genome engineering is because cells have the ability to detect broken DNA and repair it. So when a plant or an animal cell detects a double-stranded break in its DNA, it can fix that break, either by pasting together the ends of the broken DNA with a little, tiny change in the sequence of that position, or it can repair the break by integrating a new piece of DNA at the site of the cut. So if we have a way to introduce double-stranded breaks into DNA at precise places, we can trigger cells to repair those breaks, by either the disruption or incorporation of new genetic information. So if we were able to program the CRISPR technology to make a break in DNA at the position at or near a mutation causing cystic fibrosis, for example, we could trigger cells to repair that mutation. Genome engineering is actually not new, it's been in development since the 1970s. We've had technologies for sequencing DNA, for copying DNA, and even for manipulating DNA. And these technologies were very promising, but the problem was that they were either inefficient, or they were difficult enough to use that most scientists had not adopted them for use in their own laboratories, or certainly for many clinical applications. So, the opportunity to take a technology like CRISPR and utilize it has appeal, because of its relative simplicity. We can think of older genome engineering technologies as similar to having to rewire your computer each time you want to run a new piece of software, whereas the CRISPR technology is like software for the genome, we can program it easily, using these little bits of RNA. So once a double-stranded break is made in DNA, we can induce repair, and thereby potentially achieve astounding things, like being able to correct mutations that cause sickle cell anemia or cause Huntington's Disease. I actually think that the first applications of the CRISPR technology are going to happen in the blood, where it's relatively easier to deliver this tool into cells, compared to solid tissues. Right now, a lot of the work that's going on applies to animal models of human disease, such as mice. The technology is being used to make very precise changes that allow us to study the way that these changes in the cell's DNA affect either a tissue or, in this case, an entire organism. Now in this example, the CRISPR technology was used to disrupt a gene by making a tiny change in the DNA in a gene that is responsible for the black coat color of these mice. Imagine that these white mice differ from their pigmented litter-mates by just a tiny change at one gene in the entire genome, and they're otherwise completely normal. And when we sequence the DNA from these animals, we find that the change in the DNA has occurred at exactly the place where we induced it, using the CRISPR technology. Additional experiments are going on in other animals that are useful for creating models for human disease, such as monkeys. And here we find that we can use these systems to test the application of this technology in particular tissues, for example, figuring out how to deliver the CRISPR tool into cells. We also want to understand better how to control the way that DNA is repaired after it's cut, and also to figure out how to control and limit any kind of off-target, or unintended effects of using the technology. I think that we will see clinical application of this technology, certainly in adults, within the next 10 years. I think that it's likely that we will see clinical trials and possibly even approved therapies within that time, which is a very exciting thing to think about. And because of the excitement around this technology, there's a lot of interest in start-up companies that have been founded to commercialize the CRISPR technology, and lots of venture capitalists that have been investing in these companies. But we have to also consider that the CRISPR technology can be used for things like enhancement. Imagine that we could try to engineer humans that have enhanced properties, such as stronger bones, or less susceptibility to cardiovascular disease or even to have properties that we would consider maybe to be desirable, like a different eye color or to be taller, things like that. ""Designer humans,"" if you will. Right now, the genetic information to understand what types of genes would give rise to these traits is mostly not known. But it's important to know that the CRISPR technology gives us a tool to make such changes, once that knowledge becomes available. This raises a number of ethical questions that we have to carefully consider, and this is why I and my colleagues have called for a global pause in any clinical application of the CRISPR technology in human embryos, to give us time to really consider all of the various implications of doing so. And actually, there is an important precedent for such a pause from the 1970s, when scientists got together to call for a moratorium on the use of molecular cloning, until the safety of that technology could be tested carefully and validated. So, genome-engineered humans are not with us yet, but this is no longer science fiction. Genome-engineered animals and plants are happening right now. And this puts in front of all of us a huge responsibility, to consider carefully both the unintended consequences as well as the intended impacts of a scientific breakthrough. Thank you. (Applause) (Applause ends) Bruno Giussani: Jennifer, this is a technology with huge consequences, as you pointed out. Your attitude about asking for a pause or a moratorium or a quarantine is incredibly responsible. There are, of course, the therapeutic results of this, but then there are the un-therapeutic ones and they seem to be the ones gaining traction, particularly in the media. This is one of the latest issues of The Economist — ""Editing humanity."" It's all about genetic enhancement, it's not about therapeutics. What kind of reactions did you get back in March from your colleagues in the science world, when you asked or suggested that we should actually pause this for a moment and think about it? Jennifer Doudna: My colleagues were actually, I think, delighted to have the opportunity to discuss this openly. It's interesting that as I talk to people, my scientific colleagues as well as others, there's a wide variety of viewpoints about this. So clearly it's a topic that needs careful consideration and discussion. BG: There's a big meeting happening in December that you and your colleagues are calling, together with the National Academy of Sciences and others, what do you hope will come out of the meeting, practically? JD: Well, I hope that we can air the views of many different individuals and stakeholders who want to think about how to use this technology responsibly. It may not be possible to come up with a consensus point of view, but I think we should at least understand what all the issues are as we go forward. BG: Now, colleagues of yours, like George Church, for example, at Harvard, they say, ""Yeah, ethical issues basically are just a question of safety. We test and test and test again, in animals and in labs, and then once we feel it's safe enough, we move on to humans."" So that's kind of the other school of thought, that we should actually use this opportunity and really go for it. Is there a possible split happening in the science community about this? I mean, are we going to see some people holding back because they have ethical concerns, and some others just going forward because some countries under-regulate or don't regulate at all? JD: Well, I think with any new technology, especially something like this, there are going to be a variety of viewpoints, and I think that's perfectly understandable. I think that in the end, this technology will be used for human genome engineering, but I think to do that without careful consideration and discussion of the risks and potential complications would not be responsible. BG: There are a lot of technologies and other fields of science that are developing exponentially, pretty much like yours. I'm thinking about artificial intelligence, autonomous robots and so on. No one seems — aside from autonomous warfare robots — nobody seems to have launched a similar discussion in those fields, in calling for a moratorium. Do you think that your discussion may serve as a blueprint for other fields? JD: Well, I think it's hard for scientists to get out of the laboratory. Speaking for myself, it's a little bit uncomfortable to do that. But I do think that being involved in the genesis of this really puts me and my colleagues in a position of responsibility. And I would say that I certainly hope that other technologies will be considered in the same way, just as we would want to consider something that could have implications in other fields besides biology. BG: Jennifer, thanks for coming to TED. JD: Thank you. (Applause)"	"幾年前，我跟我同事Emmanuelle Charpentier發明了一個可以編輯基因組的新技術，它叫做 ""CRISPR-Cas9"" 。CRISPR技術讓科學家可以改變細胞裡的DNA。這技術我們可以用來治療基因疾病。 你可能有興趣想知道，CRISPR技術其實來自於一個基礎的科學研究，它的主要目的是了解細菌如何與病毒感染做對抗。細菌必須在它們的環境裡對付病毒。我們可以這麼想，病毒感染像是個定時炸彈，細菌在被消滅前，只有一些時間可以解除炸彈。很多細菌在它們的細胞裡有一種適應力免疫系統叫做 ""CRISPR"" ，它可以使細菌偵測到病毒DNA並消滅它。 CRISPR系統中，有一部分是一種叫Cas9的蛋白質，它能夠以特殊的方式尋找出、剪斷最後削弱病毒DNA。這就是我們大體上的研究：了解Cas9蛋白質的活動，這使我們懂得駕馭它的功能，用一個基因工程技術來說明：一種可以讓科學家用難以置信的精準度來消除或插入特定DNA片段到細胞中，這技術提供了一個前所未有的機會，讓我們可以做到以前不可能達到的事。 CRISPR技術已經被應用在改變老鼠和猴子細胞裡的DNA，包括其他有機體。中國科學家最近發現，他們甚至可以利用CRISPR技術改變人類胚胎裡的基因。在費城的科學家證實，他們可以利用CRISPR 技術從一個感染的人類細胞中移除HIV病毒( 人類免疫缺陷病毒 )。 這個充滿契機的基因組編輯技術，也引發了各種我們必須認真思考的道德爭議。因為這種技術不僅可以運用在成人細胞上，也可以用在有機體的胚胎上，包含我們人類。所以，我跟我同事一起來呼籲，我們要針對這個技術召開一次全球對話，讓我們可以思考這個技術應賦予的道德與社會責任。 我現在已經告訴你們CRISPER技術是甚麼、它可以做甚麼、我們今天已走到甚麼程度、及我為什麼認為我們需要一個縝密的思路來運用這項技術。 當病毒感染一個細胞，他們會插入他們的DNA在一個細菌中，CRISPER系統可以把病毒的DNA拔掉，並且插進一小片段DNA到染色體內，也就是細菌的DNA，而這些成簇的病毒DNA會被插入到一個名為CRISPR位置點。CRISPR也就是""規律成簇的間隔短回文重複"" 。(笑聲) 很繞舌—你們可以了解為什麼我們要使用CRISPER縮寫代替CRISPER是一種機制—它允許細胞隨時紀錄它們被感染到的病毒。而且很重要的，這些片段DNA會遺傳到細胞的後代所以細胞不只一個世代會一直被保護不受病毒感染，而且是好幾世代的細胞。這允許細胞持有受感染的紀錄，就像我同事Blake Wiedenheft喜歡說的，CRISPR的軌跡事實上就是細胞的一張基因疫苗接踵卡。一旦這些片段DNA被插入到細菌染色體，細胞就會複製出一小段叫RNA的分子，就是照片上的橘色的部分，它就是病毒DNA的複製品。RNA是DNA的化學堂兄妹，RNA允許與DNA相同序列的分子產生反應。 所以這些從CRISPER區域轉錄的RNA片段，會協助他們結合出一種叫Cas9的蛋白質，也就是照片上白色的部分，這個蛋白質綜合體像是細胞的衛兵，它會搜尋細胞裡所有的的DNA，在結合的RNA裡找到符合序列的位置，當這些位置找到後，就如你所看到DNA上的藍色分子，這個綜合體協助DNA，並允許 Cas9蛋白質像刀一樣切斷病毒DNA這是一次非常精確的突破，所以我們可以把Cas9 RNA想像成像是一把DNA剪刀它在DNA螺旋結構中，製造了一種""雙股螺旋斷裂""。最重要的，這種綜合體是可以程式化的，所以它程式化後可以用來辨認特定的DNA序列並且在DNA的特定位置制造一個斷裂， 這也是我現在即將要告訴你們的，我們已公認這個技術，可以在基因工程上被駕馭，它就在我今天介紹過的斷裂處允許細胞裡的DNA有一個非常精準的變化。這個方式有點類似於我們使用的文書處理軟體好比在一個檔案夾裡修正一段錯字一樣 我們在想使用CRISPR系統用於基因組工程的原因是因為細胞具有檢測損壞的DNA的能力並修復它。所以當一個植物或動物細胞在它的DNA偵測到雙股螺旋斷裂時，它可以修復它，或者把破裂的DNA尾端黏在一起，以一個微小的變化在那個位置的序列進行修復或者它可以藉由在該位置處，聚集新的DNA片段來修復斷裂所以如果我們有一種方式可以引導 ""雙股螺旋斷裂"" 精準地進入DNA，我們就可以啟動細胞來修復這些斷裂—無論藉由破壞或合併新的基因訊息。所以如果我們可以程式化CRISPR技術在DNA裡製造斷裂例如，在囊性纖維化發生突變的位置處或附近製造斷裂我們可以啟動細胞去修復那個突變 基因工程並不是新的工程它在1970年代就開始發展我們已經擁有DNA定序技術複製DNA技術甚至修改DNA技術這些技術非常有前途，問題是它們也不具有效率性，或者很難運用...所以大部分的科學家們在他們的實驗室並不採用它們，或是應用於臨床。因為CRISPER的技術相對簡單，所以使用它的機會已展露曙光。我們可以想像一下舊的基因工程技術就像每次你要跑新的軟體，你的電腦就必須升級一樣。而CRISPR技術就像基因組的軟體，利用這些RNA小片段我們可以簡單地編輯它 所以一旦雙股螺旋斷裂發生在DNA裡，我們就可以誘導修復，因此有可能達到驚人的進展比如, 能夠修正引起貧血症的突變或引起亨廷頓氏病的突變。我真的在想, 第一個CRISPR技術的應用即將在血液裡發生。它相對於堅硬組織而言,更能相對簡單地能傳送應用這項技在細胞內。 目前, 很多工作已經運用在人類疾病的動物模型中, 例如, 老鼠這技術已經被使用做非常精準的改變。使我們可以用這個方式研究細胞DNA裡的變化。不論是一個組織或像這個案例,整個有機體。 在這案例中藉由在DNA裡的小改變CRISPR技術被用來擾亂基因這個基因是負責這些老鼠黑色皮膚的基因。想像一下, 這些白色的老鼠與它們有色小同伴不同的原因僅是因為在整個基因組裡的一個小改變。除此之外, 他們幾乎一模一樣當我對這些動物的基因做排序我們發現了在基因裡的變化就精準地發生在我們使用CRISPR技術的地方。 其他實驗也正在其它動物身上進行中，用來製作人類疾病的的模型,像是猴子。我們在此發現, 我們可以使用這系統在特定組織中進行這項技術的應用，例如, 找出如何傳送CRISPER工具到細胞中。我們也想進一步了解如何控制DNA在切斷後的修復方式，也更想知道如何控制並限制任何一種偏離目標的狀況，或者使用這技術時的副作用。 我想我們即將看到, 它在臨床上的應用特別是在成人身上,絕對會在10年內看到我想這就好像是我們即將看到的臨床試驗到時候，甚至也有可能看到被認可的治療方式，想想的確是件令人興奮的事。因為這項技術的興起已經有很多新的公司已被挹注資金在研究""將CRISPR技術商品化""，也有很多風險投資家已經投資在這些公司。 但我們也必須要思考一件事，就是CRISPR技術能被用在增進性能上。想像一下我們可以嘗試設計製造人類，像是擁有強壯骨骼的性能或降低心血管疾病的誘發機率甚至擁有我們認為也許渴望很久的特徵像是不同的眼睛顏色, 或長的更高。""訂製人"" 如果你像這樣稱呼他們的話。目前為止, 基因資訊在了解甚麼類型的基因會有這些特徵目前為止大部分仍是未知的但了解CRISPR技術提供了我們一個工具可以來做這些改變是很重要的一旦那些知識變成能取得後。 這會引發一系列我們必須仔細考量的道德問題，這也是為什麼我跟我同事要呼籲全世界暫緩任何臨床上有關人類胚胎在CRISPER上的應用，給我們一些時間，讓我們認真思考各種不同的CRISPER應用。實際上, 在1970年代，已經有類似這樣暫緩的慣例，當時科學家們聚集在一起，呼籲暫緩使用 ""分子克隆""，直到那個技術可以安全地被小心測試並驗證。 雖然，人類基因組工程還沒到來但這已經不是科幻小說。動物及植物的基因組工程現在正在進行中。這也使我們每一個人眼前面臨了一個重大責任，來認真思考這個科技突破可能會帶來的影響結果與不可預期的衝擊。 謝謝各位! (掌聲) (掌聲結束) Bruno Giussani：Jennifer，這是個具有很大影響力的技術，就如你所提的關於你要求暫停、延期或隔離的態度是非常負責任的。當然有一些會有療效，但也有一些無療效的，而它們似乎特別受媒體的關注。這是經濟學人雜誌最新的議題—""定製人類""大部分都關注在基因學上能力的提升而非療效。今天三月你跟你在科學世界裡的同事，對此技術提出要求並建議"" 我們必須立刻停止並思考 ""後，你們有得到什麼回應? Jennifer Doudna:我想,我同事們實際上很高興有這機會可以公開討論這件事。當我向人們訴說這件事情時的確很有趣，我同事跟其他人也是，關於這件事大家都有不同的見解，所以很明顯地，這件事需要深思熟慮及討論。 BG：今年12月還有一次大型會議你跟你同事都有被邀請與其他國際學術科學專家一起開會。你希望會議中實際上能達到甚麼共識? 是的，我希望我們可以與很多不同的私人機構及投資人針對如何負責任地使用此項技術做一次線上會議溝通。它也許不太可能會有一致的共識但我認為我們至少要了解當我們往前走時會有那些後果 BG：現在，舉你的同事George Church為例子在哈佛大學中，他們會說 ""對啊，有關道德上的考量，基本上只是安全性問題，我們會不斷地在動物與實驗室裡測試一旦我們感覺它夠安全，才會移到人體做測試啊!""所以這有點像其他學校的想法，我們應該利用此機會並大膽嘗試。這有沒有可能在科學界產生分歧呢?我的意思是，有些人忍住了，因為他們有道德方面的顧慮，有些人則沒有，並繼續前進，因為有些國家有管制而有些則完全沒有。 JD：我想很多新科技，特別類似這種的，大家都會有不同的觀點，我想這完全都可以理解。我想到最後，這個科技會被用在人類基因工程上，但我認為如果沒有深思熟慮並討論其中的風險和可能的併發症，那是不負責任的表現。 BG：我想有很多技術和其他領域的科學跟你的很像，正倍數的發展中我有想到人工智慧、自主性機器人等等...似乎沒有人 —除了自主作戰機器人 —在這些領域中，似乎沒有人發表相同的言論。要來呼籲暫緩之類的...你認不認為你的討論也許可以成為其他領域的參考藍圖？ JD：是的， 我認為，要讓科學家離開實驗室是不太可能的。就我自己而言，這樣做有點不太舒服。但我的確認為我們被捲入這件事的起源，使我跟我同事必須站出來為這件事負責。而我也絕對希望其他的科學家也能用同樣的方式來思考，正如我們考量到某些事也有可能會牽連到生物或其他領域時一樣。 BG：Jennifer，感謝你來TED演講。 JD：謝謝。 (掌聲)"
