Talk	en	zh-tw
jeremy_heimans_what_new_power_looks_like	"So this is Anna Hazare, and Anna Hazare may well be the most cutting-edge digital activist in the world today. And you wouldn't know it by looking at him. Hazare is a 77-year-old Indian  anticorruption and social justice activist. And in 2011, he was running a big campaign to address everyday corruption in India, a topic that Indian elites love to ignore. So as part of this campaign, he was using all of the traditional tactics that a good Gandhian organizer would use. So he was on a hunger strike, and Hazare realized through his hunger that actually maybe this time, in the 21st century, a hunger strike wouldn't be enough. So he started playing around  with mobile activism. So the first thing he did  is he said to people, ""Okay, why don't you send me a text message if you support my campaign against corruption?"" So he does this, he  gives people a short code, and about 80,000 people do it. Okay, that's pretty respectable. But then he decides, ""Let me tweak my tactics a little bit."" He says, ""Why don't you leave me a missed call?"" Now, for those of you who have lived in the global South, you'll know that missed calls are a really critical part of global mobile culture. I see people nodding. People leave missed calls all the time: If you're running late for a meeting and you just want to let them know that you're on the way, you leave them a missed call. If you're dating someone and  you just want to say ""I miss you"" you leave them a missed call. So a note for a dating tip here, in some cultures, if you want to please your lover, you call them and hang up. (Laughter) So why do people leave missed calls? Well, the reason of course is that they're trying to avoid charges associated with making calls and sending texts. So when Hazare asked people  to leave him a missed call, let's have a little guess how  many people actually did this? Thirty-five million. So this is one of the largest coordinated actions in human history. It's remarkable. And this reflects the extraordinary strength  of the emerging Indian middle class and the power that their mobile phones bring. But he used that, Hazare ended up with this massive  CSV file of mobile phone numbers, and he used that to deploy real people power on the ground to get hundreds of thousands of people out on the streets in Delhi to make a national point of  everyday corruption in India. It's a really striking story. So this is me when I was 12 years old. I hope you see the resemblance. And I was also an activist, and I have been an activist all my life. I had this really funny childhood where I traipsed around the world meeting world leaders and  Noble prize winners, talking about Third World debt, as it was then called, and demilitarization. I was a very, very serious child. (Laughter) And back then, in the early '90s, I had a very cutting-edge tech tool of my own: the fax. And the fax was the  tool of my activism. And at that time, it was the best way to get a message to a lot of people all at once. I'll give you one example of a fax campaign that I ran. It was the eve of the Gulf War and I organized a global campaign  to flood the hotel, the Intercontinental in Geneva, where James Baker and Tariq Aziz were meeting on the eve of the war, and I thought if I could  flood them with faxes, we'll stop the war. Well, unsurprisingly, that campaign was wholly unsuccessful. There are lots of reasons for that, but there's no doubt that  one sputtering fax machine in Geneva was a little bit of a bandwidth constraint in terms of the ability to  get a message to lots of people. And so, I went on to  discover some better tools. I cofounded Avaaz, which uses the  Internet to mobilize people and now has almost  40 million members, and I now run Purpose, which  is a home for these kinds of technology-powered movements. So what's the moral of this story? Is the moral of this story, you know what, the fax is kind of eclipsed by the mobile phone? This is another story of  tech-determinism? Well, I would argue that there's  actually more to it than that. I'd argue that in the last 20 years, something more fundamental has changed than just new tech. I would argue that there has been a fundamental shift in the balance of power in the world. You ask any activist how  to understand the world, and they'll say, ""Look at where the power is, who has it, how it's shifting."" And I think we all sense that  something big is happening. So Henry Timms and I — Henry's a fellow movement builder — got talking one day and  we started to think, how can we make sense of this new world? How can we describe it and give it a framework that makes it more useful? Because we realized that many of the lessons that we were discovering in movements actually applied all over the world in many sectors of our society. So I want to introduce you to this framework: Old power, meet new power. And I want to talk to you about what new power is today. New power is the deployment of mass participation  and peer coordination — these are the two key elements — to create change and shift outcomes. And we see new power all around us. This is Beppe Grillo he was a populist Italian blogger who, with a minimal political apparatus and only some online tools, won more than 25 percent of the vote in recent Italian elections. This is Airbnb, which in just a few years has radically disrupted the hotel industry without owning a single square foot of real estate. This is Kickstarter, which we know has raised over a billion dollars from more than five million people. Now, we're familiar with all of these models. But what's striking is the commonalities, the structural features of  these new models and how they differ from old power. Let's look a little bit at this. Old power is held like a currency. New power works like a current. Old power is held by a few. New power isn't held by a few, it's made by many. Old power is all about download, and new power uploads. And you see a whole set of  characteristics that you can trace, whether it's in media or  politics or education. So we've talked a little bit  about what new power is. Let's, for a second, talk about  what new power isn't. New power is not your Facebook page. I assure you that having a  social media strategy can enable you to do just as much download as you used to do when you had the radio. Just ask Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad, I assure you that his Facebook page has not embraced the power of participation. New power is not inherently positive. In fact, this isn't an normative argument that we're making, there are many good things  about new power, but it can produce bad outcomes. More participation, more peer coordination, sometimes distorts outcomes and there are some things, like things, for example,  in the medical profession that we want new power  to get nowhere near. And thirdly, new power is not the inevitable victor. In fact, unsurprisingly, as many of these new power models get to scale, what you see is this massive pushback from the forces of old power. Just look at this really  interesting epic struggle going on right now between  Edward Snowden and the NSA. You'll note that only one of  the two people on this slide is currently in exile. And so, it's not at all clear that new power will be  the inevitable victor. That said, keep one thing in mind: We're at the beginning of a very steep curve. So you think about some of  these new power models, right? These were just like someone's garage idea a few years ago, and now they're disrupting  entire industries. And so, what's interesting about new power, is the way it feeds on itself. Once you have an experience of new power, you tend to expect and  want more of it. So let's say you've used a peer-to-peer lending platform like Lending Tree or Prosper, then you've figured out that you don't need the bank, and who wants the bank, right? And so, that experience tends  to embolden you it tends to make you want more participation across more aspects of your life. And what this gives rise to is a set of values. We talked about the models that new power has engendered — the Airbnbs, the Kickstarters. What about the values? And this is an early sketch at what new power values look like. New power values prize transparency above all else. It's almost a religious  belief in transparency, a belief that if you shine  a light on something, it will be better. And remember that in the 20th  century, this was not at all true. People thought that gentlemen should sit behind closed doors and make comfortable agreements. New power values of informal, networked governance. New power folks would never  have invented the U.N. today, for better or worse. New power values participation, and new power is all about do-it-yourself. In fact, what's interesting  about new power is that it eschews some of  the professionalization and specialization that was all the rage in the 20th century. So what's interesting about these new power values and these new power models is what they mean for organizations. So we've spent a bit of time thinking, how can we plot organizations on a two-by-two where, essentially, we look at new power values and new power models and see where different people sit? We started with a U.S. analysis, and let me show you  some interesting findings. So the first is Apple. In this framework, we actually described Apple as an old power company. That's because the ideology, the governing ideology of Apple is the ideology of the perfectionist product designer in Cupertino. It's absolutely about that beautiful,  perfect thing descending upon us in perfection. And it does not value, as a  company, transparency. In fact, it's very secretive. Now, Apple is one of the most succesful companies in the world. So this shows that you can still pursue a successful  old power strategy. But one can argue that there's  real vulnerabilites in that model. I think another interesting comparison is that of the Obama campaign versus the Obama presidency. (Applause) Now, I like President Obama, but he ran with new  power at his back, right? And he said to people, we are the ones we've been waiting for. And he used crowdfunding to power a campaign. But when he got into office, he governed like more or less  all the other presidents did. And this is a really interesting trend, is when new power gets powerful, what happens? So this is a framework you  should look at and think about where your own organization sits on it. And think about where it should be in five or 10 years. So what do you do if you're old power? Well, if you're there  thinking, in old power, this won't happen to us. Then just look at the Wikipedia entry for Encyclopædia Britannica. Let me tell you, it's a very sad read. But if you are old power, the most important thing you  can do is to occupy yourself before others occupy you, before you are occupied. Imagine that a group of your biggest skeptics are camped in the heart of your organization asking the toughest questions and they can see everything inside of your organization. And ask them, would they  like what they see and should our model change? What about if you're new power? Is new power kind of just  riding the wave to glory? I would argue no. I would argue that there are some very real challenges to new power in this nascent phase. Let's stick with the Occupy Wall Street example for a moment. Occupy was this incredible example  of new power, the purest example of new power. And yet, it failed to consolidate. So the energy that it created was great for the meme phase, but they were so committed to participation, that they never got anything done. And in fact that model means that the challenge for new power is: how do you use institutional power without being institutionalized? One the other end of the spectra is Uber. Uber is an amazing, highly scalable new power model. That network is getting denser and denser by the day. But what's really interesting  about Uber is it hasn't really adopted new power values. This is a real quote from  the Uber CEO recently: He says, ""Once we get rid of the dude  in the car"" — he means drivers — ""Uber will be cheaper."" Now, new power models live and die by the strength of their networks. By whether the drivers and the consumers who use the service actually believe in it. Because they're not an exercise  of top-down perfectionism, they are about the network. And so, the challenge, and this is why it's in no way surprising, is that Uber's drivers  are now unionizing. It's extraordinary. Uber's drivers are turning on Uber. And the challenge for Uber — this isn't an easy situation for them — is that they are locked into a broader superstrcuture that is really old power. They've raised more than a billion  dollars in the capital markets. Those markets expect a financial return, and they way you get a financial return is by squeezing and squeezing your users and your drivers for more and more value and giving that value to your investors. So the big question about the future  of new power, in my view, is: Will that old power just emerge? So will new power elites just become old power and squeeze? Or will that new power base bite back? Will the next big Uber be co-owned by Uber drivers? And I think this going  to be a very interesting structural question. Finally, think about new power being more than just an entity that scales things that make us have slightly  better consumer experiences. My call to action for new power is to not be an island. We have major structural problems in the world today that could benefit enormously from the kinds of mass participation and peer coordination that these new power players know so well how to generate. And we badly need them to  turn their energies and their power to big, what economists might call public goods problems, that are often beyond markets where investors can easily be found. And I think if we can do that, we might be able to fundamentally change not only human beings' sense of  their own agency and power — because I think that's the most wonderful thing about new power, is that people feel more powerful — but we might also be able to change the way we relate to each other and the way we relate to  authority and institutions. And to me, that's absolutely worth trying for. Thank you very much. (Applause)"	這位是安納·哈扎爾，安納·哈扎爾可能是現今世界上最前衛的數位社會運動的人。從外表你是看不出來。哈扎爾是一位 77 歲的印度反貪腐及宣揚社會正義的社運人士。2011 年，他發起了一個大規模的活動挑戰印度隨處可見的貪腐，這是一個印度權貴階級有意忽視的問題。身為活動的一份子，他使用傳統的戰術就像甘地社會活動組織者使用的戰術。他進行一次絕食抗議，哈扎爾意識到到他絕食的過程中或許這一次，在 21 世紀的今天，絕食抗議是不夠的。 於是他開始規劃以手機展開抗議。他做的第一件事情，就是告訴人們，「為何不以手機傳一封簡訊給我如果你支持我所發起的反貪污運動？」他這樣做了，他給大家一組短碼，大約有八萬人傳了簡訊給他。這的確令人敬佩。然後決定，「讓我稍稍改變一下策略。」他說，「為何不給我留一通未接來電？」對於在南半球居住過的你們，你會知道「未接來電」在行動通訊文化裡扮演著一個很重要的角色。我看到有人在點頭。人們總是收到「未接來電」：如果你知道參加會議要遲到了，而你只是想讓他們知道你已經在路上了，就給他們一個「未接來電」。如果你正在跟某人交往，而你只是想讓對方知道「我想你」就留一個「未接來電」。給大家提供一個交往的建議，在某些文化裡，如果你想要取悅你的另一半，打電話給他們然後馬上掛斷。（笑聲）為什麼人們總是留未接來電？原因當然是，他們想要省下那些因為撥打電話和傳送簡訊的話費。 當哈扎爾要求人們給他留未接來電之後，讓我們來猜一下究竟有多少人實際這麼做了？三千五百萬人。這是人類歷史上參與人數最多的活動之一，真是了不起。而這反映了正在崛起中的印度中產階級超乎尋常的力量，以及他們使用行動電話所能帶來的力量。哈扎爾利用這種方法，得到了這個包含大量行動電話號碼的 CSV 檔，並利用這個方法聚集人力。促使數十萬人聚集到德里街頭讓印度隨時發生的貪腐問題變成一個大家關注的焦點。這真是令人振奮的故事。 這是 12 歲的我。但願你看到了某些相似之處。我也是個活動家，一生如此。我的童年充滿樂趣得以漫遊世界，與世界領導人和諾貝爾獲獎者會面，討論第三世界債務的問題，當時是這麼被稱呼的，還有非軍事化問題。我是個很嚴肅的孩子。（笑聲）當時，在九十年代初期，我也有屬於自己的前衛的工具：傳真。傳真是我發起運動的工具。這也是那時候最好的溝通工具，能一次性地給許多人發送訊息。我給你們舉一個例子是用傳真發起的一次運動。那是海灣戰爭的前夕，我組織了一次全球性的運動，淹沒了日內瓦的整間洲際酒店，詹姆士·貝克與塔里克·阿齊茲在戰爭前夕於這間酒店會面，我想，如果我可以用傳真淹沒他們，就可以阻止戰爭爆發。 然後，毫無意外地，這運動徹徹底底地失敗了。失敗的原因很多，毫無疑問的是一台拼命工作的傳真機，在日內瓦遇到頻寬限制影響了它發送訊息給他人的能力。我繼續努力尋找新工具。我和 Avaaz 合作，它們利用網絡做動員，現在約有四千萬會員，我現在經營「目的」網站，是一個運用科技力量發起各種活動的大本營。這個故事有什麽寓意呢？這故事的寓意在於，你們都知道傳真被手機取代這件事嗎？又是一個技術決定論的故事嗎？我的觀點並不盡於此。我認為在過去的二十年裏，有些基礎的東西在發生改變，而不僅僅是新科技。我認為有一些基礎性的轉折發生在權力的平衡發生在世界上。 如果去問任何的活動家要怎麽去理解這個世界。他們會說：「觀察權力在那裡，誰擁有權力，權力又如何轉換。」我想我們都能感覺到世界正在發生大的改變。 所以我與亨利·提姆士亨利是創辦活動的伙伴我們有天在討論中想到，我們該怎麽理解這個新世界？怎樣描述這世界如何建立一個更能發揮效用的架構？因為我們認識到我們在運動中學到的教訓事實上適用於整個世界和社會中的許多領域。所以，我想向你們介紹這個架構：新舊勢力相接。我想告訴妳們當今世界的新勢力是什麽。新勢力就是規劃大眾參與和同伴協調是兩個關鍵要素促進變革和改變事情的結果。新勢力就在我們身邊。 這位是畢普·格里羅他是一個平民主義部落格主只靠最少的政治支援和上網工具，贏得超過 25% 的選票。就發生在最近的意大利選舉。這是 Airbnb，在短短幾年中徹底瓦解了飯店業在不曾擁有土地資產的情況下。這是 Kickstarter，我們知道已經從五百万人以上的手中募集超過十億美元。我們熟悉這些模式。但是真正讓人吃驚的是其共通性，新模式的結構特性與舊勢力不同之處。 我們再仔細想想這個問題。舊勢力像貨幣流通。新勢力則像電流。舊勢力被少數人所掌握。而新勢力被許多人擁有。舊勢力是下載，新勢力卻是上傳。你看到所有特點有跡可循，無論是在媒體，政治還是教育領域。 我們剛剛談論什麼是新勢力。再花一點時間來談談新勢力不是什麼。新勢力不是你的臉書專頁。我確信你有社交媒體戰略能夠使你由上而下執行策略就跟你過去使用廣播的策略一樣。只要問敘利亞獨裁者巴沙爾·阿薩德你就知道了，我保證他的臉書專頁並沒有為他帶來大眾參與的力量。新力量不是天生樂觀。事實上，我們並沒有在做規範的論證，有許多關於新力量的好東西，但是它們可能導致不好的結果。更多的參與，更多的對等協調，有時候這會導致不好的結果還有一些，比如說，在醫療領域不要讓新勢力涉入此領域。第三，新勢力不是一定會贏。事實上，毫無意外地，許多新勢力漸漸擴大規模，你看到一股強大的阻力來自舊勢力。看看這個有趣的史詩性對抗現在正發生的愛德華·史諾登與美國國安局之間的恩怨。你會注意到兩方之中只有一方流亡他鄉。所以，這是一個令人懷疑的說法新勢力必定是贏家這個說法。 也就是說，有件事要記在心裡：我們正處在陡峻曲線的起點。你在思考一些新勢力的模式，對吧？這好像是某些人幾年前他們在車庫的靈光一閃，現今它們正在顛覆整個產業的商業模式。新勢力有趣的地方，在於它自然形成的方式。一旦你有發展新勢力的經驗，你會期望要求更多。若使用過平等借貸平台像是「 美國借貸俱樂部」或是 「繁榮網站」，你會發現你不需要銀行，誰還會使用銀行服務？這種經驗會使你更有勇氣使你去更想要去參與體驗更多樣化人生。這會產生一套價值觀。我們討論這個模式新勢力模式引起Airbnbs, Kickstarters 的價值觀。至於價值觀本身，這是初步架構新勢力所呈現的樣子。 新勢力把資訊透明視為最重要的價值觀。把資訊透明化看成是一種宗教信仰，它們相信只要透明化，事情就會變好。要了解，在 20 世紀，這一點也不適用。人們認為紳士應關起門來達成滿意的協議。新勢力著重非正式形式，網路管理當今的新勢力不會創立聯合國，不論是好是壞。新勢力重視參與，新勢力自己動手做。新勢力有趣的地方是避免專業化和特殊化廣泛使用於 20 世紀。 這些有趣的新勢力價值觀和新勢力的模式是專為公司組織而設立的。我們花了一些時間思考，要如何規劃組織在二維的座標上，我們觀察新勢力的價值觀新勢力的模式以及看到不同人所處的位置。我們以美國的例子作分析，我向各位展示一些有趣的事情。第一個例子是「蘋果電腦」。在這個架構上，我們事實上將「蘋果電腦」歸類為舊勢力公司。因為公司的意識形態，「蘋果電腦」的管理形式是位於庫比蒂諾（加州）完美主義產品設者的意識形態。產品絶對是出色完美，完美的產品承襲我們完美的目標。「蘋果電腦」沒有訊息透明的價值觀。事實上，「蘋果電腦」對資訊相當保密。當今，「蘋果電腦」是世界上最成功公司之一。這意味著你可以追求成功的舊勢力策略。有人會說這種模式相當脆弱。我有另外一個相對的例子即歐巴馬競選活動與歐巴馬執政的對比。（掌聲）我喜歡歐巴馬總統，但他暗中行使新勢力，對吧？他有說過，我們就是那些我們一直在等待的人。他用群眾募資的方式來擴大競選活動的勢力。當他選上總統，他的執政與其他總統沒什麼差別。這是個有趣的趨勢，當新勢力變得強大後，會發生什麼？所以這是你應該要去思考的架構想看看你的組織在架構上所處的位置。想想看五年或十年內它應該是在那一個位置。如果你的組織是舊勢力，你該如何做？如果你身處舊勢力並思忖著，這不會發生在我身上。搜尋維基百科「大英百科全書」。我告訴各位，搜尋結果讓人感到難過。 如果你的組織是舊勢力，最重要，你必須做的是佔有自己的職務在別人佔領你的職務之前，在你的職務被佔領之前。想想看，有一群對組織最為質疑的人駐在你的組織的核心處提出最尖銳的問題他們可以看透組織的一切。然後問他們，是否喜歡所看到的現象我們的模式是否需要改變？如果你的組織是新勢力，該做什麼？新勢力會是順勢直達目的地嗎？我會說，不是的。我認為新勢力在初期階段存在一些真正的挑戰。我們接著再花一點時間討論佔領華爾街這個例子。佔領是新勢力令人難以置信的例子，這個佔領活動是新勢力最經典的例子。然而，這活動沒有團結一致。所以這活動產生對剛開始的模仿階段來說是重要的，但他們太注重參與度，以致於沒有成果。事實上，這個模式對新勢力的挑戰是：在組織制度尚未完整下你如何發揮組織的力量？ 另一個例子是「優步」。「優步」這公司令人訝異，有強大的新勢力。服務網日復一日愈加嚴密。 但「優步」真正有趣的地方在於「優步」沒有真正採用新勢力價值觀。以下是引用「優步」執行長最近說的話：他說，一旦我們擺脫車子裡這位講究衣著儀表的人，他指的是司機「優步」就便宜了。現在新勢力模式的生死取決於連繫網路是否綿密。也取決於司機和顧客這些使用Uber的人的信賴。因為他們不是一個由上至下完美主義的活動，這是有關連繫網路。因此，這個挑戰，一點也不令人感到訝異的是「優步」的司機組成工會。這真是非比尋常。「優步」的司機正在對抗「優步」公司。「優步」的挑戰對他們來說是個不簡單的局面他們被困在一個寬廣的上層結構這其實是舊勢力。「優步」在資本市場募得十億美金以上的資金。資本市場期待獲得財務回報，獲得財務回報的方式是不斷壓榨顧客和司機以獲得更多利潤再將利潤轉到投資人手中。 未來新勢力最大的問題我的看法是：舊勢力將會再現？新勢力的精英將變成舊勢力並壓榨他人嗎？或是新勢力被抑制？下一個「優步」將會成為優步司機共同擁有？我認為這將會是一個非常有趣的結構上問題。 最後，新勢力不只是組織規模的大小使我們有比較好的顧客使用經驗。我對新勢力的呼籲是不要孤立。我們面臨主要結構性的問題能夠獲得巨大的利益從廣泛的參與和對等合作中獲得對新勢力的參與者來說非常熟悉如何去執行。我們非常需要將能量和勢力移轉到經濟學家所說的一個重大的公共產品問題，這些問題通常發生在市場之外這些地方容易找到投資者。我認為，如果我們能這麼做，我們或許可以從根本做改變而不只是人類意識到自身能力因為我認為這是新勢力最好的事情，就是讓人們感覺自己掌握更多權力我們或許能夠改變我們與他人的相處方式與當權者和機構組織的相處方式。對我而言，那是絕對值得去嘗試的謝謝各位。（掌聲）
