Talk	en	zh-tw
jeremy_jackson	"I'm an ecologist, mostly a coral reef ecologist. I started out in Chesapeake Bay and went diving in the winter and became a tropical ecologist overnight. And it was really a lot of fun for about 10 years. I mean, somebody pays you to go around and travel and look at some of the most beautiful places on the planet. And that was what I did. And I ended up in Jamaica, in the West Indies, where the coral reefs were really among the most extraordinary, structurally, that I ever saw in my life. And this picture here, it's really interesting, it shows two things: First of all, it's in black and white because the water was so clear and you could see so far, and film was so slow in the 1960s and early 70s, you took pictures in black and white. The other thing it shows you is that, although there's this beautiful forest of coral, there are no fish in that picture. Those reefs at Discovery Bay, Jamaica were the most studied coral reefs in the world for 20 years. We were the best and the brightest. People came to study our reefs from Australia, which is sort of funny because now we go to theirs. And the view of scientists about how coral reefs work, how they ought to be, was based on these reefs without any fish. Then, in 1980, there was a hurricane, Hurricane Allen. I put half the lab up in my house. The wind blew very strong. The waves were 25 to 50 feet high. And the reefs disappeared, and new islands formed, and we thought, ""Well, we're real smart. We know that hurricanes have always happened in the past."" And we published a paper in Science, the first time that anybody ever described the destruction on a coral reef by a major hurricane. And we predicted what would happen, and we got it all wrong. And the reason was because of overfishing, and the fact that a last common grazer, a sea urchin, died. And within a few months after that sea urchin dying, the seaweed started to grow. And that is the same reef; that's the same reef 15 years ago; that's the same reef today. The coral reefs of the north coast of Jamaica have a few percent live coral cover and a lot of seaweed and slime. And that's more or less the story of the coral reefs of the Caribbean, and increasingly, tragically, the coral reefs worldwide. Now, that's my little, depressing story. All of us in our 60s and 70s have comparable depressing stories. There are tens of thousands of those stories out there, and it's really hard to conjure up much of a sense of well-being, because it just keeps getting worse. And the reason it keeps getting worse is that after a natural catastrophe, like a hurricane, it used to be that there was some kind of successional sequence of recovery, but what's going on now is that overfishing and pollution and climate change are all interacting in a way that prevents that. And so I'm going to sort of go through and talk about those three kinds of things. We hear a lot about the collapse of cod. It's difficult to imagine that two, or some historians would say three world wars were fought during the colonial era for the control of cod. Cod fed most of the people of Western Europe. It fed the slaves brought to the Antilles, the song ""Jamaica Farewell"" — ""Ackee rice salt fish are nice"" — is an emblem of the importance of salt cod from northeastern Canada. It all collapsed in the 80s and the 90s: 35,000 people lost their jobs. And that was the beginning of a kind of serial depletion from bigger and tastier species to smaller and not-so-tasty species, from species that were near to home to species that were all around the world, and what have you. It's a little hard to understand that, because you can go to a Costco in the United States and buy cheap fish. You ought to read the label to find out where it came from, but it's still cheap, and everybody thinks it's okay. It's hard to communicate this, and one way that I think is really interesting is to talk about sport fish, because people like to go out and catch fish. It's one of those things. This picture here shows the trophy fish, the biggest fish caught by people who pay a lot of money to get on a boat, go to a place off of Key West in Florida, drink a lot of beer, throw a lot of hooks and lines into the water, come back with the biggest and the best fish, and the champion trophy fish are put on this board, where people take a picture, and this guy is obviously really excited about that fish. Well, that's what it's like now, but this is what it was like in the 1950s from the same boat in the same place on the same board on the same dock. The trophy fish were so big that you couldn't put any of those small fish up on it. And the average size trophy fish weighed 250 to 300 pounds, goliath grouper, and if you wanted to go out and kill something, you could pretty much count on being able to catch one of those fish. And they tasted really good. And people paid less in 1950 dollars to catch that than what people pay now to catch those little, tiny fish. And that's everywhere. It's not just the fish, though, that are disappearing. Industrial fishing uses big stuff, big machinery. We use nets that are 20 miles long. We use longlines that have one million or two million hooks. And we trawl, which means to take something the size of a tractor trailer truck that weighs thousands and thousands of pounds, put it on a big chain, and drag it across the sea floor to stir up the bottom and catch the fish. Think of it as being kind of the bulldozing of a city or of a forest, because it clears it away. And the habitat destruction is unbelievable. This is a photograph, a typical photograph, of what the continental shelves of the world look like. You can see the rows in the bottom, the way you can see the rows in a field that has just been plowed to plant corn. What that was, was a forest of sponges and coral, which is a critical habitat for the development of fish. What it is now is mud, and the area of the ocean floor that has been transformed from forest to level mud, to parking lot, is equivalent to the entire area of all the forests that have ever been cut down on all of the earth in the history of humanity. We've managed to do that in the last 100 to 150 years. We tend to think of oil spills and mercury and we hear a lot about plastic these days. And all of that stuff is really disgusting, but what's really insidious is the biological pollution that happens because of the magnitude of the shifts that it causes to entire ecosystems. And I'm going to just talk very briefly about two kinds of biological pollution: one is introduced species and the other is what comes from nutrients. So this is the infamous Caulerpa taxifolia, the so-called killer algae. A book was written about it. It's a bit of an embarrassment. It was accidentally released from the aquarium in Monaco, it was bred to be cold tolerant to have in peoples aquaria. It's very pretty, and it has rapidly started to overgrow the once very rich biodiversity of the northwestern Mediterranean. I don't know how many of you remember the movie ""The Little Shop of Horrors,"" but this is the plant of ""The Little Shop of Horrors."" But, instead of devouring the people in the shop, what it's doing is overgrowing and smothering virtually all of the bottom-dwelling life of the entire northwestern Mediterranean Sea. We don't know anything that eats it, we're trying to do all sorts of genetics and figure out something that could be done, but, as it stands, it's the monster from hell, about which nobody knows what to do. Now another form of pollution that's biological pollution is what happens from excess nutrients. The green revolution, all of this artificial nitrogen fertilizer, we use too much of it. It's subsidized, which is one of the reasons we used too much of it. It runs down the rivers, and it feeds the plankton, the little microscopic plant cells in the coastal water. But since we ate all the oysters and we ate all the fish that would eat the plankton, there's nothing to eat the plankton and there's more and more of it, so it dies of old age, which is unheard of for plankton. And when it dies, it falls to the bottom and then it rots, which means that bacteria break it down. And in the process they use up all the oxygen, and in using up all the oxygen they make the environment utterly lethal for anything that can't swim away. So, what we end up with is a microbial zoo dominated by bacteria and jellyfish, as you see on the left in front of you. And the only fishery left — and it is a commercial fishery — is the jellyfish fishery you see on the right, where there used to be prawns. Even in Newfoundland where we used to catch cod, we now have a jellyfish fishery. And another version of this sort of thing is what is often called red tides or toxic blooms. That picture on the left is just staggering to me. I have talked about it a million times, but it's unbelievable. In the upper right of that picture on the left is almost the Mississippi Delta, and the lower left of that picture is the Texas-Mexico border. You're looking at the entire northwestern Gulf of Mexico; you're looking at one toxic dinoflagellate bloom that can kill fish, made by that beautiful little creature on the lower right. And in the upper right you see this black sort of cloud moving ashore. That's the same species. And as it comes to shore and the wind blows, and little droplets of the water get into the air, the emergency rooms of all the hospitals fill up with people with acute respiratory distress. And that's retirement homes on the west coast of Florida. A friend and I did this thing in Hollywood we called Hollywood ocean night, and I was trying to figure out how to explain to actors what's going on. And I said, ""So, imagine you're in a movie called 'Escape from Malibu' because all the beautiful people have moved to North Dakota, where it's clean and safe. And the only people who are left there are the people who can't afford to move away from the coast, because the coast, instead of being paradise, is harmful to your health."" And then this is amazing. It was when I was on holiday last early autumn in France. This is from the coast of Brittany, which is being enveloped in this green, algal slime. The reason that it attracted so much attention, besides the fact that it's disgusting, is that sea birds flying over it are asphyxiated by the smell and die, and a farmer died of it, and you can imagine the scandal that happened. And so there's this war between the farmers and the fishermen about it all, and the net result is that the beaches of Brittany have to be bulldozed of this stuff on a regular basis. And then, of course, there's climate change, and we all know about climate change. I guess the iconic figure of it is the melting of the ice in the Arctic Sea. Think about the thousands and thousands of people who died trying to find the Northwest Passage. Well, the Northwest Passage is already there. I think it's sort of funny; it's on the Siberian coast, maybe the Russians will charge tolls. The governments of the world are taking this really seriously. The military of the Arctic nations is taking it really seriously. For all the denial of climate change by government leaders, the CIA and the navies of Norway and the U.S. and Canada, whatever are busily thinking about how they will secure their territory in this inevitability from their point of view. And, of course, Arctic communities are toast. The other kinds of effects of climate change — this is coral bleaching. It's a beautiful picture, right? All that white coral. Except it's supposed to be brown. What happens is that the corals are a symbiosis, and they have these little algal cells that live inside them. And the algae give the corals sugar, and the corals give the algae nutrients and protection. But when it gets too hot, the algae can't make the sugar. The corals say, ""You cheated. You didn't pay your rent."" They kick them out, and then they die. Not all of them die; some of them survive, some more are surviving, but it's really bad news. To try and give you a sense of this, imagine you go camping in July somewhere in Europe or in North America, and you wake up the next morning, and you look around you, and you see that 80 percent of the trees, as far as you can see, have dropped their leaves and are standing there naked. And you come home, and you discover that 80 percent of all the trees in North America and in Europe have dropped their leaves. And then you read in the paper a few weeks later, ""Oh, by the way, a quarter of those died."" Well, that's what happened in the Indian Ocean during the 1998 El Nino, an area vastly greater than the size of North America and Europe, when 80 percent of all the corals bleached and a quarter of them died. And then the really scary thing about all of this — the overfishing, the pollution and the climate change — is that each thing doesn't happen in a vacuum. But there are these, what we call, positive feedbacks, the synergies among them that make the whole vastly greater than the sum of the parts. And the great scientific challenge for people like me in thinking about all this, is do we know how to put Humpty Dumpty back together again? I mean, because we, at this point, we can protect it. But what does that mean? We really don't know. So what are the oceans going to be like in 20 or 50 years? Well, there won't be any fish except for minnows, and the water will be pretty dirty, and all those kinds of things and full of mercury, etc., etc. And dead zones will get bigger and bigger and they'll start to merge, and we can imagine something like the dead-zonification of the global, coastal ocean. Then you sure won't want to eat fish that were raised in it, because it would be a kind of gastronomic Russian roulette. Sometimes you have a toxic bloom; sometimes you don't. That doesn't sell. The really scary things though are the physical, chemical, oceanographic things that are happening. As the surface of the ocean gets warmer, the water is lighter when it's warmer, it becomes harder and harder to turn the ocean over. We say it becomes more strongly stratified. The consequence of that is that all those nutrients that fuel the great anchoveta fisheries, of the sardines of California or in Peru or whatever, those slow down and those fisheries collapse. And, at the same time, water from the surface, which is rich in oxygen, doesn't make it down and the ocean turns into a desert. So the question is: How are we all going to respond to this? And we can do all sorts of things to fix it, but in the final analysis, the thing we really need to fix is ourselves. It's not about the fish; it's not about the pollution; it's not about the climate change. It's about us and our greed and our need for growth and our inability to imagine a world that is different from the selfish world we live in today. So the question is: Will we respond to this or not? I would say that the future of life and the dignity of human beings depends on our doing that. Thank you. (Applause)"	"我是生態學家，大多是做珊瑚礁生態研究。一開始我是從柴斯比克灣開始，在寒冷的冬天潛入海水，但一夜之間我成了熱帶生態學家，這是一件很棒的事，大概持續了十年左右。我是說，有人付錢請你四處遊歷，尋找一些這世界上最美麗的地方，而那就是我的工作。 最後我來到西印度群島的牙買加，那裡的珊瑚礁是我所見過最特別、也是最完整的一個。這張照片很有趣，它隱含了兩個涵意。首先，這是黑白的，因為海水非常清澈，所以你可以看到很遠，而且在1960和70年代初期，照片還不普及，所以只能拍黑白照片。另外一個涵意是，雖然整個珊瑚森林非常美麗，在照片裡卻連隻魚都沒有。 這些在牙買加發現灣的珊瑚礁，是世界上近二十年來，被研究得最透徹的珊瑚礁，我們有最好、最棒的珊瑚礁。還有人遠從澳洲來研究這些珊瑚礁，想想有點好笑，因為我們現在還得去他們那裡觀摩。科學家對於珊瑚礁如何運作、演變的概念，全都來自於這些沒有魚的珊瑚礁。1980年時，颶風艾倫來襲，我把半間實驗室建在家裡。風非常強，而浪有25到50英呎(8~16公尺)高，然後珊瑚礁消失，形成新島嶼。我們想，「好吧，還好我們很聰明，知道颶風從以前就常常來襲。」所以我們在《科學》期刊上發表了一篇論文，這是第一次有人報導大型颶風對珊瑚礁所造成的破壞，我們也預測了之後會發生什麼事。結果我們都錯了。真正的原因是因為過度捕撈，連最後的掠食者海膽也消失了。而在幾個月之內，海膽逐漸死亡，海藻便開始生長。這是十五年前，同一個珊瑚礁的照片，然後這是現在的珊瑚礁。牙買加北岸的珊瑚礁只剩極少的珊瑚存活，其他大多是海藻或爛泥。這或多或少就是加勒比海珊瑚礁的遭遇，也是世界上其他更多、更可悲的珊瑚礁的遭遇。 這是我個人哀傷的親身經歷，而在60和70年代，很多人都有類似的遭遇，世界上還有成千上萬個這樣的故事。很難想像一切會逐漸好轉過來，因為情況一直在惡化，而會持續惡化的原因是，在經過颶風這樣的自然災害後，本來應該會透過消長演替而自然好轉的珊瑚礁，現在則因為漁業過度捕撈、污染還有氣候變遷等互相影響，而使自然消長無法進行。所以我接下來會一一解釋這三件事情。 (過度捕撈)大家都聽過很多關於鱈魚捕撈業瓦解的事情，很難想像有二次，或者有些歷史學家說三次世界大戰，都是為了要控制鱈魚，而在殖民時期爆發。鱈魚養活了西歐大部分的人口，也養活了從安地列斯群島來的奴隸。""再會牙買加""這首歌中有一句：""阿開木果、米飯、鹹魚亦可口""便象徵著加拿大東北鹽漬鱈魚的重要性。但在80和90年代整個鱈魚漁業瓦解，三萬五千人失業，而這只是一連串資源耗竭的開端，原本你有好吃的大魚，後來只能吃不那麼可口的小魚；原本只捕撈鄰近的漁種，後來開始捕撈世界各地的其他漁種，這都是我們自己造成的。這或許不大容易理解，因為在美國，你可以在好市多買到便宜的魚，你得從標籤上才能知道這魚是從哪來的，但那還是很便宜，所以大家覺得這沒什麼。 我覺得很難對大眾講清楚這個道理，但我覺得可以舉休閒釣魚這個有趣的例子，來讓大家瞭解這個道理，因為大家都喜歡到戶外抓魚，這便是其中之一。這張照片是大獎魚，也就是參賽者裡所釣到最大隻的魚，這些參賽者會花大把銀子去搭船，到佛羅里達州的西嶼某處，拼命灌啤酒、下很多魚鉤，然後帶著最大最好的魚回來，而最大的冠軍魚，會被放到這板子上給人拍照，而這傢伙顯然非常興奮。也許現在是這樣，但這是1950年時從同一條船上，在同一個地點同一個碼頭的同一塊板子上拍的大獎魚，那條魚超大，大到其他的小魚都放不下，那時大獎魚的平均重量是250到300磅，像巨人哥利亞一樣。你如果想到外面去捕點魚，便很有可能會釣到一條像這樣的魚，而且真的很好吃。在1950年代要釣到這樣的魚，比現在便宜多了，而現在只能抓到那些小小的魚，到處都只能看到這些小魚。 消失的不只是魚而已。商業捕撈用的是大傢伙、大機具，他們用的漁網有20哩(32公里)長，他們也使用上面有一兩百萬個魚鉤的延繩釣線，還有底拖網，也就是把一個大得像連結車、重達幾千磅的東西裝上鐵鍊，然後拖過海底，把底部亂攪一通來捕魚。這就像是摧毀一整個城市或森林一樣，一掃而空，造成難以想像的棲地破壞。這是世界上典型大陸棚區的照片，你可以看到海底有一條條的痕跡，那一條條的痕跡就像是剛犁好田的土地，要來種玉米。而這從前是海綿和珊瑚的叢林，是魚類生長發育的重要棲地，現在變成一堆泥土。整個海底被破壞，從森林變成泥地，再變成停車場，整個被破壞的面積相當於人類歷史上曾在地球上砍伐過的所有森林的總面積。而這已經持續了一百到一百五十年。 （污染）我們常會先想到漏油或水銀，還有最近常聽到的塑膠產品，這些東西都很討人厭，但最棘手的是生物污染，會使整個生態體系，產生大規模的轉變。我在這裡只簡單講兩種生物污染，一個是外來種，另外一個則因養分滋養而大量繁殖。這是惡名昭彰的Caulerpa taxifolia（羽毛藻），又叫殺手藻，有一本書專門在講這種藻類。尷尬的是，這是不小心從摩納哥的水族館裡跑出來的。這是人類培養的耐冷藻類，可以養在水族箱裡，很漂亮，一下子就大量繁殖起來，覆蓋了曾經有豐富多樣性物種的地中海西北海岸。我不知道有多少人還記得《異形奇花》這部電影，這藻類就是裡面那朵花，但它不會吃掉店裡的人，它反而是拼命繁殖，然後把所有地中海西北岸的底棲生物都給悶死。我們不知道有什麼生物會吃它們，也試著用遺傳工程或是其他任何方法來解決，但是它們還在，像是從地獄來的怪物，沒人知道該拿它們怎麼辦。 另外一種污染則是因為養分過多所造成的生物污染。農業改革後，人類大量使用化學氮肥，政府還會補助，這也是為什麼農民總是用太多肥料的原因。剩下的肥料則被河流帶走，滋養浮游植物，就是生長在近岸海域裡的微小植物。但我們已經把牡蠣還有會吃浮游植物的魚給吃光了，所以沒有生物會吃浮游植物，浮游植物不斷累積，他們在很老的時候才會死掉，這對浮游植物來說是很少見的情形。浮游植物死後，會沈降到海底，開始腐化，也就是被細菌分解；在這整個過程中，會消耗掉所有氧氣，當氧氣用完時，對無法游走的生物來說，那裡就成了足以致命的危險地帶。結果那裡就變成微生物的天堂，由細菌和水母主宰，就如同左邊這張照片一樣。這時唯一剩下的漁業，唯一還有利可圖的漁業，就是水母捕撈，像右邊這張，以前這裡是抓明蝦的。甚至在紐芬蘭，以前抓鱈魚的漁場，現在也在捕水母。 另一個類似的例子是人們所稱的紅潮，或是有毒藻華。這張照片嚇了我一大跳，我談過紅潮至少上百萬次，但還是很難令人相信。左邊這張照片的右上方，是密西西比河三角洲，左下方則是德州以及墨西哥邊界。你看到的是整個墨西哥灣的西北部，還有能殺死魚類的有毒甲藻藻華，他們是由右下方那美麗、可愛的小生物所製造的。在右上方，你會看到一片像烏雲的東西，正在靠近海岸，他們是同一種生物。而當它們靠近岸邊，風一吹，就會把這些小水滴隨風帶走，然後急診室裡就會擠滿患有急性呼吸窘迫症的人。這是佛羅里達州西岸的退休老人住宅，我和我朋友曾一起辦過好萊塢海洋之夜，我們想讓演員們了解海洋到底發生了什麼事，我說：「想像你在一部叫「馬里布大逃亡」的電影裡，那些美麗的人都搬到北達科他，因為那裡乾淨又安全，而留下來的人則都是因為負擔不起，所以才無法從海邊搬走，因為曾經是美麗天堂的海灘，現在變成有害健康的海灘了。」 這真的很驚人，我去年秋天在法國渡假的時候就有碰到，這是布列塔尼海岸，整個海岸都被綠色黏呼呼的藻類包圍起來。之所以會引起這麼多的注意，是因為除了很噁心之外，海鳥飛過去還會因太臭而窒息死亡，而且還死了一個農夫，所以你可以想像會變成怎樣的醜聞。農民和漁民為了這件事情，爭執不休，結果就是得定期把這東西從布列塔尼海灘鏟走。 當然還有氣候變遷，大家都知道氣候變遷，我猜最有代表性的大概就是北極海冰融化的那張照片。想想有多少人為了尋找西北航道而喪失性命，嗯，現在西北航道已經在那裡了。這有點好笑，因為那是在西伯利亞海岸，所以俄羅斯可能會收過路費。世界各國都很重視這個問題，尤其是北極區內各國的軍事機構。雖然政府首長都否認有氣候變遷，但挪威、美國和加拿大等國的中情局以及海軍，都不停地從自己國家的角度思考，在這無可避免的情況下，要如何保衛領土。當然，北極圈的居民早就已經輸了。 氣候變遷的另外一個影響，是珊瑚白化。這張照片很美，沒錯，全是白化的珊瑚，他們本來應該是褐色的。實情是，這些珊瑚是共生體，有一些小小的藻類細胞生活在珊瑚體內，藻類供給珊瑚醣份，然後珊瑚則提供養分和保護給這些藻類；但太熱的時候，藻類就不會產生醣份，珊瑚說：「你這騙子！你沒有付房租」，就把他們踢出去，然後珊瑚就死了。並不是所有珊瑚都會死掉，有些會活下來，但這實在是個壞消息。為了讓你們對這稍微有點概念，想像一下你在七月的時候，到歐洲或北美某處露營，第二天早上醒來，你看看四周，發現視野所及八成的樹，葉子都掉光了，光禿禿的。你回家以後發現，整個北美和歐洲，八成以上的樹葉子全都掉光了；然後幾週後你在報紙上看到，喔，有四分之一的樹已經死了。這就是印度洋在1998年聖嬰現象時，所發生的事情，這個區域比北美加上歐洲還要大，有八成的珊瑚白化，而四分之一的珊瑚死亡。 然而真正可怕的是把這些全部加在一起：過度捕撈、污染還有氣候變遷，這些都不是憑空發生的，但他們卻會互相助長氣勢。他們加在一起的綜效，影響程度遠大於各自獨立加總的總和。對於我們科學家來說，思考這些問題是很大的科學挑戰，我們是否知道，怎麼把支離破碎的碎片拼湊起來？我是說，就現階段來講，我們還可以保護海洋，但這又表示什麼？我們真的不知道。 海洋在未來的20到50年內，究竟會變成什麼樣子呢？海裡大概會只剩一些小魚吧，海水會變得很髒，還充滿像是水銀還有其他類似的東西等等。海洋死區會變得越來越大，變得可以互相合併，我們可以想像海洋的「死區化」，會在全球和近岸海域發生。你當然不會想吃那裡面的魚，因為那簡直是在玩食物的俄羅斯輪盤一樣，有時候會發生有毒藻華，有時候又沒有，那是賣不出去的。 真正可怕的事情是，目前海洋環境裡正在發生的物理、化學變化，當海洋表層變暖後，海水就會變輕，使得海水循環變得越來越困難，也就是我們說的明顯分層。結果就是，原來會進入秘魯鯷魚漁場、加州沙丁魚漁場等等的養份，全都慢了下來，然後這些漁場就瓦解了。同時，表層充滿氧氣的海水，不會下沉，海洋就變成了沙漠。 現在的問題是：我們該怎麼做？我們可以做很多事情來改善這個狀況，但總括來說，我們需要改變的其實是自己。這和魚無關，也和污染無關，更不是因為氣候變遷，而是我們。我們貪婪、追求成長，我們從沒想過不要和現在一樣地自私自利。所以現在的問題是：我們該不該做出改變？我想生物的未來和人類的尊嚴，都看這個決定了。 謝謝。"
